MARK O. HATFIELD OREGON

’PJCnifeh ﬁfcdes ﬁenafe

WASHINGTON. D.C. 20510

May 14, 1984

C. M. Sinclair

R. A. Chamberlain

6963 N. B Street
Springfield, Oregon 97478

Dear Friends:
Thank you for your recent letter.

The Alaska National Hunting Bill, S. 49, has been voted out of
the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee. Prior to
mark-up of the bill, Senator Murkowski removed Glacier Bay and
Kenai Fjords from inclusion in it. Two amendments proposed by
Senator Tsongas, and adOpted by the Committee, further cut the
acreage in the bill by removing the Katmai area and the Gates of
the Arctic from the lands to be opened with status as national
preserves. The intent of this legislation is to open up to sport
hunting the remaining 5 million acres of Alaskan national park
land included in the bill by downgrading the classification of
these areas from national parks to national preserves.

I worked very closely on the compromise which was reached on the
1980 Alaska National Interest Lands Conservation Act. As a
result of that involvement, I understand the need to protectl
these lands. The hearings on S. 49 demonstrated the great
controversy surrounding this legislation and the fact that floor
consideratiOn of this issue is warranted. For this reason I V
supported reporting the bill out of committee. I have reviewed
the results of the committee process closely and will keep your
comments in mind as the bill is considered on the floor.

Thank you again for taking the time to contact me. I hope you
will continue to share your views with me.

Kind regards.

Sincerely,

Mark C. Hatfield?
United.States,Senator

MOH/lrw
831M

 




nix i i ‘;
Mark $3 ﬁaﬁfiﬁif
ﬁmiﬁaﬁ %ﬁata$ g g'ﬁﬁ
Washﬁngﬁ;¢gwﬁgcw gagiﬁ

ﬁwar ﬁamatmx Hatfiﬁlﬁ,

yaar praganﬁatiaﬁ wf the gfaat mega far battar funﬁing 0f
tha Emimal Walfarg Eat wag magtarful. Haw wall yaa laié

mat ﬁﬁa raaawmg far iﬂcraaging ﬁha apprapriatibni I fael
ﬁmnfiﬁamt that, givam ﬁhis ﬁxaailanﬁ atartg it must aucceed.
Ki :3 gm badly naaﬂﬁﬁG

I &m @gpailaé ﬁy aha neglgat amﬁ ahaagg E raaﬁ about in the
ragﬁrﬁa ﬁf 333%‘3 vatarinary inspﬁctmra in major inatitutians.
raggiving ﬁans Of milliamg ﬁf ﬁgliarg ﬁvary yaar fram Nlﬁw
Hawgm&m gamuina ragultg ha abtainaﬁ when animals are farced
ﬁg 1i% in filtha in @rampaé aﬁgﬁg. wiﬁh vantilation ducts
mlaggaﬁ witﬁ haiﬁg atmppaﬁ up éraina anﬁ watar 39 far from
ﬁrﬁgk that gxggn sstﬁm hag ﬁatmaﬂ an thﬁ centaiaers?

fig invagﬁmﬂnﬁ Qf tax funﬁg in himmaﬁical reﬁaarch should ha
@EQtﬁﬁﬁﬁﬁ by maintaining, at ﬁﬁa very laasﬁ, tha minimum
$tﬁﬂﬁ$$ﬁﬁ anuixaé by the ﬁnimal waifara Act.‘without‘reguLar
ingpaﬁtimmﬁ by_%?ﬁ£$ Vgtarinariaﬁg khase standarﬂa will §?' “
wagaataﬁly flautgﬁ a& they have haan in the past” “ '

I aarneatly hagw am inﬁraasa can be achiavaa in a sup;
a3 yam suggagteag K Vhraugh a flag? amﬁnémante

Yam? iaaﬁarghip in aﬁaking aéfactiva anforcememt niftholk;
Wﬁlﬁara Aﬁt £3 meat ﬂeaply ﬁppxaciataé. ’

With wawa aﬁﬁ gxaﬁeful thamks.
1

‘)

C“ , m‘Eo.
wlﬂeartgg,

 




MARK O. HATFIELD OREGON

QJCnifeh ﬁfafee $enafe

WASHINGTON. D.C. 20510

April 16, 1982

Ms. Sara Shopin

4605 Jump Off Joe
Grants Pass, Oregon 97526

Dear Ms. Shopin:
Thank you for your recent correspondence.

I too share your concern over the use of Compound 1080 for
predator control. In December 1981, the Environmental Protection
Agency issued rules in the Federal Register announcing upcoming
hearings on the use of Compound 1080 in toxic collars and bait
stations. Proponents of the use of 1080 claim to have new
evidence that prior claims of "secondary kills" of nonntargeted
species are no longer valid. EPA has opened hearings to study

this new evidence before any decision is made on that resumption
of the use of 1080.

I plan on monitoring the situation carefully and appreciate your
bringing this matter to my attention.

Kind regards.

SincerelyJMWWMM

3%

Markgo. Hatfield:

3°

Uniﬁed States Senator
§ gag“

g

MOH/twm

 




MARK O. HATFIELD

@Cnifeh gﬁafee ﬁenafe

WASHINGTON. D.C. 2051 O

I
)-

March 4, 1981

Ms. Lois Winchester
Route 2, Rox 2401
Heeyner, Oregon $7836

Dear Ms. Winchester:

Your recent message regarding your support of the Desert Pupfish
'tational wildlife Refuge ail}, i3 genuinely apereciated. Thank
you for taking the time to contec me on this matter.

Pleeee know that I value your oninion concerning this issue

of
innortence to both of us and that I will keep it in mind a5 it is
coneidered in the Senate.

Thenk you again for your letter. I hope you will continue to
share your views with me.

I .’ .‘ J} i .- . a
Minn regards.

Sincerely,

ﬁark G. Hatfield
United States Senator

 




MARK O. HATFIELD

gfnifeh Sﬂafee $enafe

WASHINGTON. D.C.. 20510
August 20, 1979

Ms. Christine Stevens

Society for Animal Protective Legislation
P.0. Box 3719

Georgetown Station

Washington, D.C. 20007

Dear Ms. Stevens:

lhank you for your recent letter and the information regarding
alternatives to the steel—jaw, leghold trap.

Like you, I believe every effort should be made to ensure that
trappin5 practices on public lands are as humane as possible. At
the present time, the environment and Public works Committee is
cons1der1n5 1e5islation which would outlaw the steel jaw le5hold
trap. nest assureo that i will fellow this le5islation closely
and Keep your views in mine snoulc it ree on the Senate 11¢0r.
A1so, the An1mel Uexna5e Control pr05ram will receive my special

attention as 1t 18 considered by the Senate AppFOprldolOdS
tomm1ttee.

Thanx you a5a1n for writin5. i hope you will continue 0 share
your views with me.

hind regards .
Sincerely,

Jam

Mark 0. Hatfield
United States Senator

MOH/jcc
15164

 




.6 ',

MARK O. HATFIELD OREGON

”PJCniieh ﬁfafez ﬁenafe

WASHINGTON. D.C. 20510

March 15, 1976

Mr. Ronald L. Kaufman

5112 S.W. Scholls Ferry Road
No. D—11O

Portland, Oregon 97225

Dear Mr. Kaufman:

Thank you for your recent letter concerning the issue of animal
welfare.

While both the House and Senate have passed Animal Welfare Act
Amendments, dealing basically with protection of animals being
transported, the two versions vary somewhat. The Senate passed
bill, 3.1941, containing no provisions banning the shipment in
interstate commerce of dogs for dog fighting, which is illegal in
every state, and game fowl for cock fighting, which is illegal in
all but 11 states. The House bill, however, does include this
language.

These and other differences are presently being ironed out. My
support of the Animal Welfare Act Amendments will continue. I
find the concept of dog or cock fighting personally abhorrent,
and contrary to the idea of the humane treatment of wildlife. I
reject it as a form of sport, and am inclined to vote in favor of
any legislation which will ban it.

It is my understanding that some prohibition on dog fighting is
likely, but the outcome of the debate with regard to game fowl is
uncertain.

 




Mr. Ronald L. Kaufman March 15, 1976 PG: 2

Please be assured that I will keep your thoughts in mind ,
concerning S.1923, the Wild Horses and Burros Amendments Act. as
I consider my action regarding this legislation.

Thank you again for writing. I hope that you will continue to
share your views with me.

Kindest regards.

Sincerely,

 

Mark O. Hatfield
United States Senator

 




MﬁRK O. ”XTFIELD OREGON

”PJCnifeh $fafe$ $enafe

WASHINGTON. D.C. 20510

March 2, 1976

Ms. Erma L. Huebner
2536 Kane Street
Klamath Falls, Oregon 97601

Dear Ms. Huebner:

Thank you for your recent communication concerning an issue of
vital significance to each of us. I greatly appreciate your
taking the time to apprise me of your views.

While both the House and Senate have passed Animal Welfare Act
Amendments, dealing basically with protection of animals being
'transported, the two versions vary somewhat. The Senate passed
bill, S.1941, contains no provisions banning the shipment in
interstate commerce of dogs for dog fighting, which is illegal in
every state, and game fowl for cock fighting, which is illegal in
all but 11 states. The House bill, however, does include this
language.

These and other differences are presently being ironed out. My
support of the Animal Welfare Act Amendments will continue. I'
find the concept of dog or cock fighting personally abhorrent,
and contrary to the idea of the humane treatment of wildlife. I
reject it as a form of sport, and am inclined to vote in favor of
any legislation which will ban it. ““*

It is my understanding that some prohibition on dog fighting is
likely, but the outcome of the debate with regard to game fowl is
uncertain.

 




Ms. Erma L. Huebner March 2, 1976 PG: 2

Thank you again for writing. I hope that you will continue to
share your views with me.

Kindest regards.

Sincerely,

Mark O. Hatfield
United States Senator

 




[gnaw
‘ W MM WWca/wé ' \ -~§
Wﬁ?';g(&/')W Wat/9W
WM)” \gﬂw m wWW
‘maﬂ /~ ‘ ‘

 




 

 

 

 




 

 

{EM

ﬂ“? M77 ﬂwmm Mg

W MW WW
 W WM [/wéﬂéww 222:

/\z r
§ 755 All MM

§ 2% J 2/ , / ,. W:<
aQWﬂVZ/Liﬂ /M Ma W]: gm W1
p 5; 39/ M M”? WVWz/JW WW

 




 

 

 

71f7L/?f2_mZ/é4

““’ ,_ XWWW %WW%Y
19' fiﬁy/W m

X ”flaw/WWW W%>

/¢X&€ 2/>/}‘/QW 3/?" glAéa/Wac)

W

 




//

jut/£7 5 Wm Wm/iéiié/f

 

‘ “mm/(”J7

 

 

 

 




[4,, 0M5 A m; A W /m~/4;/

i/MOW/M, W3. K QM 4,1:
% M V?/ (ﬁnd/Crag 2%WF/8/ Chm,

> ‘ jaw” ‘ /M W gray/War

/ \ ,‘ZIMA Aff&Mu 7WW4Z4‘7(W
WW WW ﬂaw/7: «Ln/ﬂ“ “Cu/20.4%?)
_ $3 M3;f/w¢7’ W 0;» Wngng

W

WW“ /M/AA&W
W" ~ ~—-— ﬁgs;
WM/x “

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 




Oregon Mark O. Hatfield

7-07’ RF: ﬂpmrzmn'olvs - Mae! anémma35m1wr
to Frese
3/7/67 thank you for your message..most appreciate of your having takeh time to
37’ $7 relay your thou W file, afﬂbWWz-Lw l‘~‘",;LML§e—wm.mltawﬁ
-67 Am TDSAPl- NONodaMM/WAL at 1:40:11 Ia.
10m67 RE: JAVITS BILL NON COMMITTAL RESPCNSE

 

R-J February 17, 1969. "Thank you so much ... in: urging my opposition to legie~
lation calling for the repeal of the Laboratory Animal'Welfare Act. I was
pleased to receive your comments on this proposed legislation and will oer»
tainly keep your views in mind when action is called for on this measure on
the Senate Floor.” ‘ > ”

6/5/69 Mrs. Carl Proebstel, Klamath Falls, Oregon.

"I very much appreciated your views...RuJ... introduced in the last session
of Congress but did not receive action. Similar legislation, H.R. ulQ has
been introduced in the House in this session and you may he sure that I shall
keep your views in mind should this or like legislation come to the Senate
floor for action.

WT: Letter to Mes. HFoye, Portland

""I understand the concern which you and mrs. Keller showed in writing to
me...not on the Senate floor yet for a vote, your letter and your views
will be considered carefully...".

Non-committal

 




JOHN I... MC CLELLAN. ARK., CHAIRMAN

WARREN G. MAGNUSON. WASH. MILTON R. YOUNG. N. DAK.

JOHN c. STENNIS. MISS. ROMAN L. HRUSKA, NEBR.

JOHN O. PASTORE. R.I. CLIFFORD P. CASE. N.J.

ROBERT c. BYRD. W. VA. HIRAM L. FONG. HAWAII

GALE w.‘ Mc GEE. WYO. EDWARD w. BROOKE. MASS. ,3 .

MIKE MANSFIELD. MONT. MARK O. HATFIELD. OREG. ’Jc f a ﬁt 1 $ t
WILLIAM PROXMIRE. WIS. TED STEVENS, ALASKA n! e a es en“ 9
JOSEPH M. MONTOYA, N. MEx. CHARLES Me O. MATHIAS. JR.. MD.

DANIEL K. INOUYE, HAWAII RICHARD S. SCHWEIKER. PA. COMMITTEE ON APPROPRIATIONS
ERNEST F. HOLLINGS. S.c. HENRY BELLMON. OKLA.

BIRCH BAYH. IND. WASHINGTON. D.C. ZOSIO

THOMAS F. EAGLETON, MO.

LAWTON CHILES. FLA.

J. BENNETT JOHNSTON, LA.

WALTER D. HUDDLESTON. KY.

JAMES R. CALLOWAY . ﬂ
CHIEF COUNSEL AND STAFF DIRECTOR ELIair-(:11- 1- 8 I l 9 7 5

Mr. Ronald Kaufman
5112 S.W. Scholls Ferry
Portland, Oregon 97225

Dear Mr. Kaufman:

Thank you for your recent letter regarding the U.S. Army's
destruction of blackbirds in the Fort Campbell, ientucky
area.

While these birds do constitute a health and safety hazard,
it does seem that the Army's method of eliminating the pro-
blem is unnecessarily brutal. Since the Army planted the
trees in which the birds are roosting, it seems they could
just as easily cut the trees down so that the birds will go
elsewhere. I intend to recommend this sort of action to
the Army. ’ '

Again, thank you for taking the time to write and share your
Views with me on this matter of mutual concern.

Kind regards.

Sincerely,

 

.3

Mark 0. Qatfield {
United States Senator

ti)

my“

 




 

MGMPTLA PTL
1-044598C050 02/19/74 H u ’ '

wa HATFIELD WSH western union 8' gram
1824 WASH DC FEB 19

ZIP 97045

J W MCKEE
1308 OTTER LANE
OREGON CITY ORE 97045

THE LITERATURE WHICH YOU SENT WHOLLY DISTORTS THE PURPOSES

AND SCOPE OF THE WHITEHURST BILL, WHICH I FULLY SUPPORT.

WILL INVESTIGATE THE OTHER MATTER OF WHICH YOU WROTE AND BE

BACK TO YOU AS SOON AS I HAVE A REPORT. WOULD ONLY WISH TO
EMPHASIZE THAT THE ZOO LEGISLATION HAS BEEN GROSSLY MISUNDERSTOOD
BY THOSE WHO COMPOSED THE NEWSLETTER. ITS OBJECTIVES AND PROVISIONS
ARE A GREAIMDEAL MILDER AND MORE HUMANE THAN WHAT IS PORTRAYED. '

MARK Grail-HAT F1 119 uss
MOH:M§ 1

1932 EETMWMWW“

MGMPTLA PTL

society far Animal Drotective LAgislaﬁiﬂnA"

I‘

I

:+ UNITEDS

1%

>1 Dumas "‘1

F
g)
I
E
P

9.155 POST/g»

 




3D CONGRESS .,
181‘ SESSION 2 7 “4
. ‘ 0 ~53":

 

IN THE SENATE or THE UNITED STATES

DECEMBER 4, 1973

Mr. I'IATFIELD introduced the following bill; which was read twice and referred
to the Committee on Rules and Administration

 

To provide assistance in improving zoos and aquariums by creat—
ing a National Zoological and Aquarium Board, and for other

purposes.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representa—
tives of the United States of America in Congress asSembled,
3 That there is created as an independent agency in the execu-
4 tive branch the National Zoological and Aquarium Board
5 (hereinafter in this Act referred to as the “Board”) .
6 i SEC. 2. (a) ‘The Board shall consist [of——

7 (1) the Director of the National Zoological Park;

(2) the Comptroller General of the United States;

and

(8) fifteen individuals to be appointed by the Presi-

 




 

2

1 dent, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate,
2 as follows:
3 (A) two ofﬁcers or employees from the Agri—
4 cultural Research Service of the Department of
5 Agriculture ;
6 (B) one ofﬁcer or employee from the Depart—
7 ment of State; and
8 t (0) one ofﬁcer or employee from the National
9 Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration of the
10 Department of Commerce;
11 (D) one ofﬁcer or employee of the Bureau of
12 Sport Fisheries and Wildlife of the Department of
13 the Interior;
14 (E) two individuals from among representa-
15 tives of national humane associations;
16 (F) four individuals from among directors of
17 zoos;
18 (G) two individuals from among directors of
19 aquariums ;
20 (H) one ofﬁcial representative of the American
21 Association of Zoological Parks and Aquariums;
22 ~ (I) one ofﬁcial representative of the American
23 Association of Zoo Veterinarians.
24 (b) . Each individual appointed to the Board under

25 paragraph (3) of subsection (a) shall serve not more than

 




H

16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24

3
two terms of six years each, except that the ﬁfteen individ—
uals first appointed shall be divided into three classes of ﬁve
individuals each and serve as follows:

(1) The members of the first class shall serve for
a term of two years, and may be reappointed for one
additional term of six years.

(2) The members of the second class shall. serve for
a term of four years, and may be reappointed for one
additional term of six years.

(3) The members of the third class shall serve for a
term of six years, and may be reappointed for one addi—
tional term of six years.

(c) Members of the Board shall receive no compensa—
tion for their services but shall be entitled to reimbursement
in accordance with section 5703 of title 5, United States
Code, for travel and otherexpenses incurred by them in the
performance of their functions under this Act.

(d) The Board is authorized to appoint an Executive
Director Who shall receive compensation at the rate provided
for level IV of the Executive Schedule under section 581.5
of title 5 of the United States Code and Who shall perform
such duties as the Board may prescribe.

(e) The Board is authorized, subject to the civil service

laws and regulations, to appoint and ﬁX the compensation of

 




 

OOQQU'II-PWNH

10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23

24

4
such additional personnel as may be necessary to carry out
the provisions of this Act.

SEC. 3. (a) The Board shall establish, and from time
to time revise, standards for the national accreditation of zoos
(including roadside parks where animals are displayed in
their natural habitat) and aquariums in the several States
and the District of Columbia.

(b) The Board is authorized to provide technical assist—
ance in the form of the services of experts employed by the
Board to assist any zoo or aquarium in complying with the
standards for accreditation under this section.

SEO. 4. (a) The Board is authorized to make grants
of funds to nonproﬁt organizations to provide for——

( l) the training of professional and paraprofes—
sional staff of zoos and aquariums to meet the accredita-
tion standards established under this Act; and

(2) humane research into methods to improve the
welfare of animals at zoos and aquariums, and into meth—
ods to meet the accreditation standards established under
this Act.

No grant under this subsection shall exceed 75 per centum
of the aggregate cost of the training or research, as the case
may be, for which the grant is made.

(b) The Board is authorized to make grants of funds to

any nonproﬁt Zoo or aquarium, or both, for projects to assist

 




1-wa

Q0301

10
11

12

5
in the attainment or maintenance of the accreditation stand-
ards established under this Act. No grant under this subsec-
tion shall exceed 50 per centum of the aggregate cost, as de-
termined by the Board, of the project for which the grant
is made.

(0) The Board is authorized to make grants of funds to
any nonproﬁt zoo or aquarium, or both, and to any nonproﬁt
agency for the purpose of enabling such zoo, aquarium, or
agency to establish pilot projects to serve as models for zoos
or aquariums, or both. Such pilot projects shall meet the
accreditation standards established under this Act. Grants
under this subsection may be up to 100 per centum of the
aggregate cost of the pilot project for which the grant is
made.

Sec. 5. The Board is authorized to guarantee loans, upon
such terms and conditions as it shall prescribe, to any zoo or
aquarium, or both, (for projects which assist in the attain-
ment or maintenance of the accreditation standards estab-

lished under this Act). The aggregate value of loans guar-

 

anteed under this section shall not exceed $

 




93D CONGRESS
1ST SESSION

 

 

To provide assistance in improving zoos and
aquariums by creating a National Zoological
and Aquarium Board, and for other pur-
poses.

 

 

By Mr. HATFIELD

 

 

DECEMBER 4, 1973

Read twice and referred to the Committee on Rules
and Administration

 




931) CONGRESS ' I ’
e S 2042

 

IN“ THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STA’I'IIIH.

JUNE 20 (legislative day, JUNE 18), 1973

M1.II\TE1EED introduced the follow 111g bill; which was read twice and 111 1I'111 11111I
1 , to the Committee on Rules and Administration ’ 1

 

A BILL

To provide assistance in improving zoos and aquariums by creat-
ing a National Zoological and Aquarium Corporation, and for
other purposes.

. Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Represenhz»

_ tives of the United States of America in Congress assembled,
That theie 1s created as an agency of the United States (If:
i cAmerica a body corpo1ate to be known as the National 7 oo-'
logical and Aquarium Corporation (hereafter in this Act

. 1efer1 ed to as the‘ ‘Corporation”) . M i
' SEC The Corporation shall have the following geneial'
powers: I I
(1) To. have perpetual duration andsuccession in its
.éérporﬁte name-

II

 




 

10
11
12

13

15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24:

25

2

(2) To sue and be sued in its corporate name.

(8) To adopt, alter, and use a corporate seal, which
shall be judicially noticed.

(4) To adopt, amend, and repeal such bylaws, rules,
and regulations as it deems necessary to carry out this Act.

(5) To enter into and perform contracts, execute instru-
ments, and determine the character of, and necessity for, its
expenditures.

(6) To determine and keep its own system of accounts
and the form and contents of its contracts and other business
documents, except as otherwise provided in this Act.

(7) To have the priority of the United States with
respect to the payment of debts out of bankrupt, insolvent,
and decedents’ estates.

(8) To acquire in any lawful manner such personal or
real property, or any interest therein, as it deems necessary
or convenient in the transaction of its business, and to hold,
maintain, sell, lease, or otherwise dispose of such property or
any interest therein; and to provide services in connection
therewith and charge therefor.

(9) To accept gifts or donations of services or property,
real or personal, as it deems necessary or convenient in the
transaction. of its business.

(10) To settle and compromise by or against it.

(1]) To have all other powers incidental, necessary, or

 




 

10
11

12

14
15
16
17
18
19
2O
21
22
23

24

3
appropriate to the carrying on of its functions or the exercise
of its speciﬁc powers.

SEC. 3. Upon termination of the corporate life of the
corporation all of its assets shall be liquidated and, unless
otherwise provided by law, shall be transferred to the United
States Treasury as the property of the United States.

SEC. 4. (a) The management of the Corporation shall
be vested in a Board of Directors (hereafter in this Act
referred to as the “Board”) to be composed of seventeen
members as folloWs:

(1) The Director of the National Zoological Park,
ex ofﬁcio.

(2) The Comptroller General of the United States, ex
oﬂicio.

(8) Fifteen individuals to be appointed by the Presi—
dent, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, as
follows:

(A) two officers or employees from the Agricul—
tural Research Service of the Department of Agriculture;
(B) one ofﬁcer or employee from the Department
of State;
(0) one officer or employee from the National
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration;
(D) one ofﬁcer or employee from the Department

of the Interior;

 




 

10
11

12

14—.
15
16
17

18

20
21
22

23

macho:

4'57
(E) two professors of zoological park management
from colleges or universities;
(F) four individuals from among vrepresentatives
of national humane associations ;' and
(at) ' four individuals from among directors of zoos
(b) (1) The members described in subparragrapbs (E) -,

(F) , and (ii) of subsection (a) shall each be appointed

for. a. term of siX- years, 'eXcept that, in the ease of the

members ﬁrst appointed, one member described in each
such subparagraph shall be appointed for a: term of tvvo
years and one shall be appointed for a term of four years.
An individual appointed to ﬁll a vacancy occurring prior
to the expiration of the term for which his predecessor was
appointed shall be appointed only for the remainder of sueh.
term.

. (2) No individual may serve for more than two terms

as a member described in subparagraph (E), (F), 01‘ (iii)

not : subsection (a). For purposes of this paragraph, an indi—

vidual who has“ served more than one—half Of a. term, shall

:be considered 1 torhave Vservedall ofsuch‘ term.

(0) Members of the Board shall receive no {Compensaé

.tion for their services but shall be entitled to reimbursement-'

in accordance with section 570.3» of” title 5, United States

.Code,~for travelaznd other expenses incurred by them in

the perﬁormance of their functions under-”this" Act;

 




 

.10 '

11

pl :3

.l 3

rd
FP-

15

16 '

'17

18

20

21

22'

T5

SEC. 4 5. (a) ' The Boardis; authm'ize'd to appoint an

-Executive .Director of the Corporation who shall rer'eive

compensation at the rate provided for level IV of the Ex—

cutiVe Schedule (5 USE. 5315) and who shall perform

such duties as the Board mayprescribe.

. (b) TheBoa-rd is authorized, Subject to the civil. serv-
ice laws and regulations, to appointand ﬁx the compensation
of such additional personnel as may be necessary- to carry
out this Act.

SEC. 6. (a) It shall be the duty of the UorpOration-é”to
3stabliSh, and from time to time revise, standards for the

national accreditation of zoos and/or aquariums "in the

several States and the District of Columbia, including. road—

side parks Where animals are displayed in their natural

habitat.
(b) The Corporation is authorized to provide technical

assistance in the form of the services of Federal ofﬁcers 01

' employees to assist any zoo and/or aquariumapplying therei-

ler in complying With the accreditation standards established

under this Act. . It " - 5331::

SEC. 7.) (a) The Corporation is authorized to make

grants of'funds to any public nonproﬁt “zoo and/or aquarium

Which meets, or Will meet, the accreditationstandards estabe
lishedrunder this Act, on such terms and conditions as :‘it

deems appropriate, to pro-Videfor—

 




 

[0

OD

(ID-i163

10
11

12

14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

 

6
(1) the training of the professional staff which

meets, or will meet, the accreditation standards estab-
lished under this Act; and
(2) research by the professional staff which meets
the accreditation standards established under this Act.
No grant under this subsection shall exceed 75 per centum
of the aggregate cost of the training or research, as the case
may be, for which the grant is made.

(b) The Corporation is authorized to make grants of
funds to any public nonproﬁt zoo and/Or aquarium which
meets the accreditation standards established under this Act
for the purpose of enabling such zoo and/or aquarium to
establish a pilot project for a. model zoo and/ or aquarium.
The Corporation is also authorized to make grants of funds to
any public nonproﬁt agency for the purpose of enabling such
agency to establish a pilot project for a model zoo and/ or
aquarium which will meet the accreditation standards estab-
lished under this Act. No grant under this subsection shall
exceed 50' per centum of the aggregate cost of the pilot proj-
ect for which the grant is made.

SEC. 8. (a) The Corporation is authorized (1) to insure
mortgages (including advances on such mortgages during
construction), upon such terms and conditions as it may
prescribe in accordance with the provisions of this Act, and

(2) to make commitments for the insuring of such mort—

 




 

tthH

00-3050!

10
11
12

14;
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22

23

25

7
gages prior to the date of their execution or disbursement
thereon.

(b) To be eligible for insurance under this Act, the
mortgage shall (1) be executed by a zoo and or aquarium
which meets, or will meet, the accreditation standards estab-
lished under this Act, (2) be made to and held by a mort-
gagee approved by the Corporation as responsible and able
to service the mortgage properly, and (3) cover a property
or project which is approved for mortgage insurance prior
to the beginning of construction or rehabilitation and is de—
signed for use as a zoo and / or aquarium facility which the
corporation ﬁnds will be constructed in an economical
manner, will not be of elaborate or extravagant design or
materials, and will be adequate and suitable for the purposes
for which designed. No mortgage shall be insured under this
section unless it is shown to the satisfaction of the Corpora—
tion that the applicant would be unable to obtain the mort-
gage loan on reasonable terms without such insurance.

(0) The mortgage shall—

(1) not exceed 90 per centum of the amount which
the Corporation estimates will be the value of the prop-—
erty or project when construction or rehabilitation is
completed;

(2) have a maturity satisfactory to the Corporation,

but not to exceed ﬁfty years from the beginning of

 




 

10:
11*:
:12

"13

14'

15
16
‘17
18
19

20 '
~21 '

'8
amortization of the mortgage,and provide for complete
amortization of the principal obligation by periodic pay-
ments Within such term asthe Corporation ', shall pre-
scribe; and
(8) beer interest (exclusive of premium charges
\for insurance, and service charges if any) at a rate not
to exceed such rate as the Corporation ﬁnds necessary
; to meet the mortgage market."

(d) The Corporation shall ﬁx premium charges for the

VinSu‘rance of: mortgages under this Act, Whicheharges shall

‘be deposited in the revolving fund created by sectiOn 10

of this Act.

SEC 9. (a) In order to assist zoos and/oraquariums

Which (1) meet, or will meet, the accreditationstandards

establiShed under this Act, and (2) are unable to obtain a

' mortgage loan With insurance provided under section 8 of

thisriAct, to carry out needed projects for the constructiOH
or modernization of zoo and/ or aquarium facilities, the Cer—
posration is authorized, subject to the limitations contained
in this section, to guarantee to non-Federal lenders making

loans to such zoos and/or aquariums for such projects, pay-

“ ment When due of principal and interest on loans approved

under this section.
' (b) No loan guarantee under this section with respect

to any construction or modernization project 11121576315le ﬂy so




 

‘10

11'

12

'16
17

18

-.- 9
much of theprincipal amount thereof as, when added to the
amount of any grant or-loan under this Act with respect to
such project, exceeds 100 per centum of the cost of such
project.

(c) Guarantees under this section shall be subject to
such terms and conditions as the Corporation determines to
be necessary to carry out this Act and protect the ﬁnancial.
interest of the United States.

(d) The cumulative total of the principal of the loans
outstanding at any time with "respect to which guarantees
have been issued under this section shall not exceed
$5

(e) The Corporation shall ﬁX fees to be charged for
the guarantee. of loans under this section, which fees shall be
deposited in the revolving fund created by section 10 of this
Act.

SEC. 10. (a) There is established in the Treasury of the
United States a revolving fund which shall be available to
the Corporation, without ﬁscal year limitation and as pro-
vided by appropriation Acts, to carry out the provisions of
this Act.

(b) The premiums charged for insurance under section 8
of this Act and the fees charged for guarantees under section

9 of this Act shall be credited to and form a. part of the

revolving fund.

 




 

I-P-OONI-l

00 4'63 0‘!

10
11
12
13

15
16
17
18
19
2O
21
22
23

24

10

(c) There are authorized to be appropriated to the.
revolving fund for the ﬁscal year 1974 such sums as may be
necessary to carry out the provisions of this Act.

SEC. 11. (a) The Corporation is authorized to borrow
money and to issue and sell such obligations as it determines
necessary to carry out the purposes of this Act. The aggre-
gate amount of any such obligations outstanding at any one.
time shall not exceed $10<,OO0,00-0,000. ‘

(b) The Corporation may pledge its assets and pledge
and use its revenues and receipts for the payment of the
principal. of or interest on said obligations, for the purchase
or redemption thereof, and for other purposes incidental
thereto, including creation of reserve, sinking, and other
funds which may be similarly pledged and used, to such eX-
tent and in such manner as it may deem necessary or desir—'
able. The Corporation is authorized to enter into binding
covenants With the holders of said obligations, and With the
trustee, if any, under any agreement entered into in con-
nection With the issuance thereof With respect to the estab—
lishment of reserve, sinking, and other funds, application
and use of revenues and receipts of the Corporation, stipula-
tions concerning the subsequent issuance of obligations or the
execution of leases or lease—purchases relating to properties
of the Corporation and such other matters, as the Corpora—

tion may deem necessary or desirable to enhance the market-

 




CO

C)!

 

 

1'1'

ability of said obligations. The issuance of obligations by the
Corporation shall be subject to the requirements of sections
102 through 104 of the Government «Corporation Control
Act (31 U.S.C. 847—849) and of no other law.
(0) Obligations issued by the Corporation under this
section-—
1

shall be in such forms and denominations;

2 shall be sold at such times and in such amounts;
4 shall be sold at such prices;
shall bear such rates of interest;

5

( l
( l
(8) shall mature at such time or times;
( )
( )
(6)

may be redeemable before maturity at the
option of the Corporation in such manner and at such
times and redemption premiums;

(7) may be entitled to such relative priorities of
claim on the assets of the Corporation with respect to
principal and interest payments; and

(8) shall be subject to such other terms and
conditions;

as the Corporation determines.-

(d) Obligations issued by the Corporation under this

section shall——

(1) be negotiable or nonnegotiable and bearer or

 

 




12

registered instruments, as specified therein- and in any

indenture or covenant relating thereto;

(2) contain a recital that they are-issued pursuant
to this section, and suchreeital shall be conclusive evi—
dence of the regularity of the issuance andsale of such
obligations and of their validity;

(3) be lawful investments and may be acceptedas
security for all ﬁduciary, trust, and public funds, the
investment or deposit of which shall be under the author—
ity or control of any ofﬁcer or agency of the United
States, and the Secretary of the Treasury or any other
Ofﬁcer or agency having authority over or control of any
"such ﬁduciary, trust, or public funds, may at any time
sell any of the obligations of the Corporation acquired by

* them under this section; and .

(4) be exempt both as to principal and interest
from all taxation now or hereafter imposed by any State
or local taxing authority except estate, inheritance, and
gift taxes.

SEC. 12. (a) At least ﬁfteen "days before selling any
issue of obligations under section 11 of this Act the Corpora-
tion shall advise the Secretary of the Treasury as to the
amount, proposed date of sale, 'maturities, terms and con-
ditions, and expected maximum rates of interest of the pro-

posed issue in a,]_')propriato detail and shall consult with him

I .1 )- v)\ 'I') r1 3 -‘1“)" » .
or his dcsrgnce thereon. llic bccrctaiy may elect to pur—

 




    

10
11

12

14

15.

16

18
19
20
21

22

24

25,

   
 

13'

chase such obligations under such terms, including rates of

interest, as he and the Corporation may agree, but at a rate

of yield no less than the prevailing yield on outstanding

marketable Treasury securities of comparable maturity, as
determined by the Secretary; If the Secretary does not pur-

chase such obligations, the Corporation may proceed to issue

and sell them to a party or parties other than the Secretary

upon notice to the Secretary and upon consultation as to
the date of issuance, maximum rates of interest, and other
terms and conditions.

(b) Subject tothe conditions of subsection (a) of this

section the Corporation may require the Secretary of the

Treasury to purchase obligations of the Corporation in such
amounts as Will ‘n-ot'cause “theholding by the Secretary of
the Treasury to exceed $2,'OO0,000,000. This subsection shall
not be construed as limiting the authority of the Secretary
to purchase —-obligations-of the Corporation in excess of such
amount.

SEC. 13. For the-"purpose of any purchase-of the Core

, poration’s obligations, the Secretary of the Treasury is au—T

. thorized to use as a public-debt transaction the preceeds from

the sale of any: securities issued under the Second Liberty
30nd Act, as now or hereafter in force, “and the purposes

for which securities may be issued under'the SecOnd Liberty

v-IBond Act, as now or hereafter in force, are extended to

include any purchases of the Corporation’s obllgz‘rtlons under




 

l-P 00 [\D H'

(JO-Jam

10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
1.8
19
20
21
22
23
24

25

14

this Act. The Secretary of the Treasury may, at any time,
sell any of the obligations of the Corporation acquired by
him under this Act. All redemptions, purchases, and sales
by the Secretary of the obligations of the Corporation shall
be treated as public—debt transactions of the United States.

SEO. 14. (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of sections
105 and 106 of the Government Corporation Control Act
(81 U.S.C. 850 and 851) , the Comptroller General of the
United States shall audit the transactions of the Corporation
at such times as he shall determine, but not less frequently
than once each Government ﬁscal year, with personnel of
his selection. In such connection he and his representatives
shall have free and open access to all papers, books, record,
ﬁles, accounts, plants, warehouses, ofﬁces, and all other
things, property, and places belonging to or under the control
of or used or employed by the Corporation, and shall be
afforded full facilities for counting all cash and verifying
transactions with balances in depositories. He shall make
report of each such audit in quadruplicate, one copy for the
President of the United States, one for the Corporation,
one for public inspection at the principal ofﬁce of the Cor-
poration, and the other to be retained by him for the use
of the Congress.

(b) A report shall not be made under subsection (a)

of this section until the Corporation shall have had reason-




10
11

12

14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21

22

23

 

  

15
able opportunity to examine the exceptions and criticisms
of the Comptroller General. The expenses of the audit shall
be paid as provided in section 301 of the Government Cor-
poration Control Act (31 U.S.C. 866). Nothing in this
chapter shall be construed to relieve the treasurer or other
accountable oﬂicers or employees of the Corporation from
compliance with the provisions of existing law requiring
the rendition of accounts for adjustment and settlement pur—
suant to section 236 of the Revised Statutes of the United
States (31 U.S.C. 71), and accounts for all receipts and
disbursements by or for the Corporation shall be rendered
accordingly.

(c) Subject only to the provisions of this Act, the
Corporation is authorized to make such expenditures and
to enter into such contracts, agreements, and arrangements,
upon such terms and conditions and in such manner as it may
deem necessary, including the ﬁnal settlement of all claims
and litigation by or against the Corporation; and, notwith—
standing the provisions of any other law, governing the
expenditure of public funds, the General Accounting Ofﬁce,
in the settlement of the accounts of the treasurer or other
accountable ofﬁcer of the Corporation, shall not disallow
credit for, nor withhold funds because of, any expenditure
which the Corporation shall determine to have been necessary

to carry out the provisions of this Act.

 

  




 

16
(d) Notliiing in this section or in the Government Cor-
poration Control Act (3]. U.S.C. 841 et seq.) shall be con—
strued as denying to the Corporation the power to obtain
audits of its accounts and reports concerning its ﬁnancial
condition and operations by certiﬁed public accounting ﬁrms.
Such audits and reports shall be in addition to those-required

by this section.

°seso-d.1nd

G'IEIIJLVH 'JW Kg
.qu10 .10; pun ‘uorcrmodiog utnra’enbv pm;
{Borﬁopoz [enorwN e ﬁLItheJo Aiq smnrmnbe

Tim v
21702 “S

SLGI ‘(SI mnr' ‘mp summer) 03 man

5'6
(‘D
pa
9.;
1+
3
H.
O
(D
:9
.5
Q:
93":
56D
9:?
>53
an:
EC:
HC+
{:30
5r!-
QD‘
mm
30'
go
B
E
g.
n-
(‘D
(D
O
5
DU
5
p—n
(D
m

 

 

 

 

pue sooz Burnoadmr ur eou'eqsrss'e eprnoud 0L

 

 

morsels m1
SSEHBNOO “86

 




JOHN L. MCCLELLAN, ARK.. CHAIRMAN

WARREN G. MAGNUSON, WASH. MILTON R. YOUNG, N. DAK.

JOHN C. STENNIS, MISS. MARGARET CHASE SMITH, MAINE
JOHN O. PASTORE, RJ. ROMAN L. HRUSKA, NEBR.

ALAN BIBLE. NEV. GORDON ALLOTT, COLO.

ROBERT c. BYRD, W. VA. NORRIS COTTON, N.H. .

GALE W. Mc GEE, wvo. CLIFFORD P. CASE, NJ. ’3' c“ i a $£a£ ,$ “at
MIKE MANSFIELD, MONT. HIRAM L. FONG, HAWAII t e 95 e 9
WILLIAM PROXMIRE, WIS. .I. CALEB BOGGS, DEL.

JOSEPH M. MONTOYA. N. MEX. EDWARD w. BROOKE, MASS. COMMITTEE ON APPROPRIATIONS

DANIEL K. INOUYE, HAWAII MARK O. HATFIELD, GREG.
ERNEST F. HOLLINGS, S.c. TED STEVENS. ALASKA WASHINGTON. D.C. 20510

BIRCH BAYH. IND. Januan‘y 2 5 3 1973

THOMAS J. SCO'IT. CHIEF CLERK
WM. W. WOODRUF'F, COUNSEL

Mrs. Vincent J. Nugent
708 Granite Hill Road
Grants Pass, Oregon 97526

Dear Mrs. Nugent:

Thank you for sending me a copy of your letter to
President Nixon on the subject of his Executive Order
banning poison as a predator control measure.

Although ranchers and farmers have made a massive effort

to have this order rescinded, I do not believe they will be
successful. There is no question, however, that they have a
very strong case in their favor and real problem on their
hands. Therefore, I am anxious to support President Nixon's
efforts to secure maximum funding for research into
alternate methods of predator control.

Please do not hesitate to write directly to me on issues of
interest and concern to you.

Kindest regards.

Sincerely,

/ a)” , . ﬂu“:
Mark 0.3Ha fier

United S ateswgenator

 




ALLEN J. ELLENDER. LA., CHAIRMAN

JOHN L. MCCLELLAN. ARK. MILTON R. YOUNG, N. DAK
WARREN G. MAGNUSON. WASH. MARGARET CHASE SMITH, MAINE
JOHN C. STENNIS, MISS. ROMAN L. HRUSKA, NEBR.

JOHN O. PASTORE, R.I. GORDON ALLOTT, COLO.

ALAN BIBLE, NEV. NORRIS COTTON, N.H. .

ROBERT C. BYRD, w. VA. CLIFFORD P. CASE, N..I. ’J:’[ i h ﬁf { g f
GALE w. MC GEE, WYO. HIRAM L. FONG. HAWAII at e a cg 9““ e
MIKE MANSFIELD, MONT. J. CALEB BOGGS, DEL.

WILLIAM PROXMIRE, WIS. EDWARD w. BROOKE, MASS. COMMITTEE ON APPROPRIATIONS

JOSEPH M. MONTOYA. N. MEX. MARK o. HATFIELD, GREG.

DANIEL K. INOUYE, HAWAII TED STEVENS. ALASKA WASHINGTON D.C. 20510
ERNEST F. HOLLINGS, S.C. '

THOMAS J. SCOTT, CHIEF CLERK Ap I' i l l l 9 l 9 72

WM. W. WOODRUFF, COUNSEL

Mrs. Carl Proebstel
#503 Bristol Avenue
Klamath Falls, Oregon 97601

Dear Mrs. Proebstel:

It was a pleasure to receive your letter and to know
of your concern for ocean mammals. This is of
particular interest to me as a former member of the
Oceans and Atmosphere Subcommittee which held hearings
on the bills designed to protect these intelligent
creatures.

Each Species - whales, porpoises, dolphins, seals,
sea lions, walruses, manatees, sea otters and polar bears -
are beset with special problems. However, it is clear

' ereSt to you to know that l have oeen active in
other animal welfare legislation, including S. 1116
which provides for the protection of the wild horse;
the bill, now public law, that prohibits the shooting
of birds and animals from an aircraft; and legislation
now pending in the Senate to enlarge the Endangered
Species Program.

Thank you for writing and I hope that you will not
hesitate to write in the future on issues of interest to
you.

Kindest regards.

Sincerely,

W

Mark O. Hatfield
United States Senator

 




ALLEN J. ELLENDER, LA., CHAIRMAN
JOHN L. MCCLELLAN. ARK. MILTON R. YOUNG. N- DAK
WARREN G. MAGNUSON, WASH. MARGARET CHASE SMITH. MAINE
JOHN c. STENNIS. MISS. ROMAN L. HRUSKA, NEBR.

JOHN O. PASTORE,

ALAN BIBLE. NEV.

RJ. GORDON ALLOTT, COLO.
NORRIS COTTON, N.H-

ziizvmszzzm- :mmasm. ”PJCniIeh ﬁiafez ﬁbenode

MIKE MANSFIELD.

MONT. J. CALEB BOGGS. DEL.

WILLIAM PROXMIRE. WIS. EDWARD w. BROOKE. MASS. COMMITTEE ON APPROPRIATIONS
JOSEPH M. MONTOYA. N. MEX. MARK O. HATFIELD, OREG.

DANIEL K. INOUYE, HAWAII TED STEVENS, ALASKA

ERNEST F. HOLLINGS, S.c. WASHINGTON' D'C' 20510

THOMAS J. SCOTT. CHIEF CLERK
WM. W. WOODRUFF, COUNSEL

April ll, 1972

Mrs. E. G. Kaufman
H337 N.E. 78th Avenue
Portland, Oregon 97218

Dear Mrs. Kaufman:

It was a pleasure to receive your letter and to know of
your concern for ocean mammals. This is of particular
interest to me as a former member of the Oceans and
Atmosphere Subcommittee which held hearings on the bills
designed to protect these intelligent creatures.

Each species -—whales, porpoises, dolphins, seals,

sea lions, walruses, manatees, sea otters and polar bears —-
are beset with special problems. However, it is clear

that the very existence of these animals is in danger and
that steps must be taken to ‘n_,-: ,nfﬂ?1,-- 'n;;§

.

‘ A . 9 f A
v .a,,, ,. “aw-.au . , ... .9 - '
>- .. ‘ , .
I 1-“4h .,~- .._,,...-~ _. f‘ ‘- ---—-
'-~,r‘ ’ .' ,‘; y, , . .. ‘ V, ,. ‘3 ..I"'
. .'.‘ r '3' . ’
v. . . 7,“ O
'."““‘ v-IO‘W hat-m; . . 4

in», A Am“; ." . - ‘ _ .

_ft/may be of interest to you to know that I have been

active in other animal welfare legislation, including

S. 1116 which provides for the protection of the

wild horse; the Bill, now public law, that prohibits the
shooting of birds and animals from an aircraft; and
legislation now pending in the Senate to enlarge the
Endangered Species Program.

”b-A— T-I

., .I --
.-l .. ., -_-.._..
I 'C'tiﬂi #m- ...-v..~ r... ~.
~ ~a..ll .1.a,..’. Ah 3" '.. "-

Sincerely,

 

1am a!
United tates Sena or

 




ALLEN J. ELLENDER, LA., CHAIRMAN

JOHN L. MCCLELLAN, ARK.

MILTON R. YOUNG, N. DAK

WARREN G. MAGNUSON, WASH. MARGARET CHASE SMITH, MAINE

JOHN C. STENNIS, MISS.
JOHN O. PASTORE, R.I.
ALAN BIBLE. NEV.
ROBERT C. BYRD, W. VA.
GALE W. MC GEE, WYO.
MIKE MANSFIELD, MONT.
WILLIAM PROXMIRE, WIS.

ROMAN L. HRUSKA, NEBR.
GORDON ALLOTT, COLO.

:MTTHE. CDJ (“£123 ﬁfaieg $enafe

J. CALEB BOGGS, DEL.
EDWARD w. BROOKE, MASS. COMMITTEE ON APPROPRIATIONS

JOSEPH M. MONTOYA, N. MEX. MARK O. HATFIELD, OREG.

DANIEL K. INOUYE, HAWAII

ERNEST F. HOLLINGS, S.C.

TED STEVENS, ALASKA WASHINGTON, D.C. 20510

THOMAS J. sco‘r'r, CHIEF CLERK Ap Ti 1 6 3 l 9 72

WM. W. WOODRUFF. COUNSEL

Mrs. E. G. Kaufman
11L337 N.E. 78th Avenue
Portland, Oregon 97218

Dear Mrs. Kaufman:

Thank you :for your recent letter suooortin- the
Administr.t o_ .

,. - ~1 . "e oer o "e ‘gr1 i“'re
ytu":‘ -— o e Senate Appropriations Committee,
I recently heard testimony in behalf of this
budgetar’W w. and you may he sure thar

Please do not hesitate to write at any time on
issues of interest to you.

Kindest regards.
Sincerely,

W

Mark O. Hatfield
United States Senator

 




MARK O. HATFIELD OREGON

Qlfnifeb ${afes ﬁenafe

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20510

February 21, 1972

Mr. H. S. Mays
2409 Pine Knoll # 2
Walnut Creek, California

Dear Mr. Mays:

It was a pleasure to receive your message and to know of

your concern for ocean mammals. This is of particular
interest to me since I am a member of the Ocean and Atmosphere
Subcommittee, of the Commerce Committee, which is holding
hearings on the variety of bills designed to protect these
intelligent creatures.

Testimony at the hearings has dealt with the special
programs facing each species - whales, porpoises, dolphins,
seals, sea lions, walruses, manatees, sea otter and polar

bears. — ‘ -mii,
. ‘ ‘. '-“-on:—-r4:-'<zn-—i-———......._‘..g.r..._l..

b- ore e ,ommi ee is w et er “”1
0n killing should beweffected, o n

for killing would be feasible.

I am deeply interested in this situation. The same sympa-
thies which led me to introduce and secure passage of
legislation to protect the wild horse, and to work for the
passage of the bill, now law, to prohibit the shooting of
birds and animals from an aircraft, will guide me in this
work. For your further info-n1 '--_ ,

*. . ' vo- "or s aring yory vW”~“'s

Kindest regards.

Sincerely,

Mark O. Hatfield
United States Senator
MOH:Jd
Enclosure

 




I

I

I'
JOHN O. PASTORE, RJ.
VANCE HARTKE, IND.
PHILIP A. HART, MICH.
HOWARD W. CANNON, NEV.
RUSSELL 3. LONG, LA.
FRANK E. MOSS, UTAH
ERNEST F. HOLLINGS, S.C.
DANIEL K. INOUYE, HAWAII

WARREN G. MAGNUSON, WASH., CHAIRMAN

NORRIS COTTON, N.H.

WINSTON L. PROUTY, VT.

JAMES B. PEARSON, KANS.

ROBERT P. GRIFFIN, MICH-

HOWARD H. BAKER, JR., TENN. wt .

MARLOW W. COOK, KY. 1 h 3‘ i g i
MARK O. HATFIELD, OREG. at e a cg 9““ e
TED STEVENS, ALASKA

WILLIAM B. SPONG, JR., VA. COMMITTEE ON COMMERCE
FREDERICK .I. LORDAN, STAFF DIRECTOR WASHINGTON, D.C. 20510

June 15, 1971

Ms. Erma L. Huebner
2536 Kane Street
Klamath Falls, Oregon 97601

Dear Ms. Huebner:

appreciate knowing your viest‘ Through the
letters, telegrams and other messages I receive
from Oregonians, I am better able to assess

the views of my constituency as I reach decisions
on the issues before the Congress and our nation.

Your interest in sharing your Views with me
is greatly appreciated and I hope you will

continue to do so.

..

Kindest regards,

Sincerely,

Mark O. Hatfield
United States Senator

 




United States
of America

I

Vol. 118

By Mr. HATFIELD:

S. 3199. A bill to provide for the con-
servation, protection, and propagation of
species or subspecies of ﬁsh and wildlife
that are threatened with extinction or
likely within the foreseeable future to
become threatened with extinction, and
for other purposes. Referred to the Com-
mittee on Commerce.

ENDANGERED SPECIES CONSERVATION ACT OF 1972

Mr. HATFIELD. Mr. President, in the

past 150 years, more than 200 species of ,'

birds, ﬁsh, and mammals have become
extinct. According to the Department of
the Interior, the United States accounted
for 48 of those species. Simply stated.

that means short of a new creation of the ‘1

world, these birds, ﬁsh, mammals will
never exist again. Exotic animals such as
Steller’s sea cow or the dodo may not
seem such a loss-«although the diminish-
ing of nature in any of its parts dimin-
ishes it totally in ways we are only just
beginning to understand—but man is
now threatening the less exotic wolf,
whale, kangaroo, tiger, to name just a
few. Will we read Jack London to remind
ourselves of the timber wolf or Herman
Melville for a glimpse of the whale? Will
William Blake’s “Tiger, Tiger” burn
brightly only in imagination and the
kangaroo ‘ in folk song? . It is not
impossible.

In 1969, under the provisions of the
Endangered Species Act,- the Department
of the-Interior listed 78 species requiring
special protection just to survive. Today,
4 years later, almost 400 species are on
that list. The dimensions of this prob-
lem, its ramiﬁcations, and its time frame
have made it apparent that steps must
be taken to strengthen the protection af-
forded endangered species. I am, there-
fore, pleased to put before the Senate
legislation entitled “The Endangered
Species Conservation Act of 1972” which
is designed to greatly strengthen the
existing program.

An important provision of this legis-
lation would enlarge the deﬁnition of en—
dangered species in the 1969 act to in-
clude those animals presently endan-
gered and those likely to be extinct be-
cause of‘ foreseeable actions. This would
place a healthy stress on prevention,
rather than reaction. After all, we have
accomplished little when we preserve a
species, such as the buffalo, in such
limited numbers, under special condi-
tions, and thereby rob them, and us, of
their role in nature. It is preferable to
forestall these artiﬁcial measures and to
keep nature in balance.

S mate ,_ .

FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 1972.

Additionally, the legislation would pro-
hibit the unauthorized import, .~ expert,
taking and interstate transportation by
any persbn of any species listed as
threatened with extinction. Civil penal-
ties can be levied against offenders. A
further aid to protecting wildlife would
be the removal of the ceiling on acquisi-
tion of habitats.

Man’s lack of, respect and moral in-
sensitivity to life in all its forms is a con-
stant source of amazement to me. Since

“ we seem perpetually immune to the waste

of human life cheaply spent in wars and
street crime and disease, perhaps ' I
should not be surprised that we sacriﬁce
animal life for transmission ﬂuid, » dog
food, lipstick, fur coats, belts or simply
in a primitive thrill‘of killing. I should

' not be, but I-am. I am glad to introduce

this legislation and believe it adds signif-
icantly to existing statutes

Mr. President, I ask that the full text
of the Endangered Species Conservation
Act of 1972 be printed at. the end of my
remarks.

There being no objection, the bill was
ordered to be printed in the RECORD, as
fozllows

S. 3199

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of
Representatives of the United States of
America in Congress assembled, That this
Act may be cited as the “Endangered Species
Conservation Act of 1972".

81210.2. (a) The Congress ﬁnds and declares
that one of the unfortunate consequences of
growth and development in the United States
and elsewhere has been the extermination of
some species or subspecies of ﬁsh and wild-
life; that serious losses in other species of
wild animals with educational, historical,
recreational, and scientiﬁc value have oc-

curred and are occurring; that the United.
States has pledged itself, pursuant to migra-
tory bird treaties with Canada and Mexico”

and the Convention on Nature Protection
and Wildlife Preservation in the West Hemi-
sphere,- the International Convention for
the Northwest Atlantic Fisheries, the Inter-
national Convention for the High Seas Fish-
eries of the North Paciﬁc Ocean, and other
international agreements, to conserve and
protect, where practicable, the various spe-
cies of ﬁsh and wildlife, including game and
nongame migratory birds, that are threat-
ened with extinction; and that the conser-

. vation, protection, restoration, and propaga-

tion of such species will inure to the beneﬁt
of all citizens. The purposes of this Act are
to provide a. program for the conservation,
protection, restoration, and propagation of
selected species and subspecies of ﬁsh and
wildlife, including migratory birds, that are
threatened with extinction, or are likely
within the foreseeable future to become
threatened with extinction.

PROCEEDINGS "AND DEBATES or THE-92." CONGRESS, SECOND SESSION

WASHINGTON, FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 1972 , No. 22

(b) It is further declared to be the policy
of Congress that all Federal departments and
agencies shall seek to protect species or sub-
species of ﬁsh and wildlife, including mi-
gratory birds, that are threatened with ex-
tinction or are likely within the foreseeable
future to become threatened with extinction,
and, insofar as is practicable. and consistent
with the primary purposes of such bureaus,
agencies, and services, shall utilize their au-
thorities in furtherance of the purpose of
this Act.

(c) (1) A species or subspecies of fish or
wildlife shall be regarded as an endangered
species whenever, in his discretion, the Sec-
retary determines, based on the best scien-
tiﬁc and commercial data available to him
and after consultation, as appropriate, with
the affected States, and, in cooperation with
the Secretary of State, the country or coun-

tries in which such ﬁsh and wildlife are

normally found or whose' citizens harvest
the same on the high seas, and to the extent
practicable, with interested persons and or-
ganizations, and other interested Federal

-agencies, that the continued existence of

such species or subspecies of ﬁsh or wild-
life, in the judgment of the Secretary is
either presently threatened with extinction
or will likely within the foreseeable future
become threatened with extinction, through-
out all or a signiﬁcant portion of its range,
due to any of the following factors: (1) the
destruction, drastic modiﬁcation, or severe
curtailment or the threatened destruction,
drastic modiﬁcation, or severe curtailment

- of its habitat; or (ii) is overutilization for

commercial, sporting, scientiﬁc, or educa-
tional purposes; or (iii) the effect on it of
disease or predation; or (iv) the inadequacy
of existing regulatdry mechanisms; or (v)
other natural or man-made factors aﬁectlng
,its continued existence.

(2) After making such determination, the
Secretary shall publish in the Federal Reg-
ister and from time to time he may revise, - ,
by regulation, a list, by scientiﬁc and com-.
mon name or names of such endangered
species, indicating as to each species so listed
whether such species is threatened with ex-
tinction or is likely within the foreseeable
future to become threatened with extinction
and, in either case, over what portion of the
range of such species this condition exists.
The endangered species lists which are ef-
fective as of the date of enactment shall be
republished to conform to the provisions of
this Act: Provided, however, that until such
republication nothing herein shall be'deemed
to invalidate such endangered. species lists.
The provisions of section 653 of title 5,
United States Code, shall aply to any regu-
lation issued under this subsection. The
Secretary shall, upon the petition of an in-
terested person under subsection 553(e) of
title 5, United States Code, also conducts a
review of any llsed or unlisted species or
subspecies of ﬁsh or wildlife proposed to be
removed from or added to the list, but only
when he ﬁnds and publishes his ﬁnding that,

‘ to his satisfaction, such person has presented

substantial evidence to

warrant such a
review. '

 




(d) For the purposes of this Act, the
term»-

(1)‘ ﬁsh and /or wildlife” means any wild
mammal. ﬁsh wild bird, amphibian, reptile
mollusk or crustacean, or any part, prod-
ucts, egg, or offspring thereof, or the dead
body or parts thereof;

(2) “United States” includes the several
States, the District of Columbia, the Com-
monwealth of Puerto Rico, American. Samoa,
the Virgin Islandsand Guam;

(3) “perso ” means any individual, ﬁrm,
corporation, association, or partnership sub-
jectrto the jurisdiction of the United States;

(4) “take”"means to pursue, hunt, shoot,
capture, collect, kill, or attempt to pursue,
hunt, shoot, capture, collect, or kill;

(5.) “Secretary” means the Secretary of the
Interior or the Secretary of Commerce as pro-
gram responsibilities are vested pursuant to
the provisions of Reorganization Plan No. 4
of 1970;

(6) “import” includes commerce with a
foreign country, entry into a foreign trade
zone, and transshipment through any .por-
tion of the United States without customs
entry.

SEC. 3. (a) The Secretary shall utilize the
land acquisition and other authorities of the
Migratory Bird conservation Act, as amended,
the Fish and Wildlife Act of 1958, as amended,
and the Fish and Wildlife Coordination Act,
as appropriate, to carry out a program in the
United States of conserving, protecting, re—
storing, and propagating those species and
subspecies of ﬁsh and wildlife that he lists
as endangered species pursuant to section 2
of this Act.

(b) In addition to the land acquisition air-
thorities otherwise available to him, the Sec-
retary is hereby authorized to acquire by
purchase, donation, or otherwise, lands or
interests therein needed to carry out the
purpose of this Act relating to the conserva-
tion, protection, restoration, and propaga-
tion of those species or subspecies of ﬁsh
and wildlife that he lists as endangered
species pursuant to section 2 of this Act.

(0) Funds made available pursuant to the
Land and Water Conservation Fund Act of
1965 may be used for the purpose of acquir-
ing lands, waters, or interests therein pursu-
ant to this section that are needed for. the
purpose of conserving, protecting, restoring,
and propagating those species or subspecies

of ﬁsh and wildlife, including migratory
birds, that he lists as endangered species
pursuant to section 2 of this Act. ‘

(d) The Secretary shall review other pro-
grams administered by him and, to the ex~
tent practicable, utilize such p in
furtherance of the purpose of this Act. All
other Federal departments and agencies shall,
in consultation with and with the assistance
of the Secretary, utilize, where practicable,
their authorities in furtherance 'of the pur-
pose of this Act by carrying out programs
for the protection of endangered species and
by taking such action as may be necessary
to insure that actions authorized, funded,
or carried out by them do not jeopardize the
continued existence of endangered species.

SEC. 4:. (a) In carrying out the program
authorized by this Act, the Secretary shall
cooperate to the maximum extent practicable
with the several States. Such cooperation
shall include consultation before the ac-
quisition of any land for the purpose of con-
serving, protecting, restoring, or propagating
any endangered species.

. (b) The Secretary may enter into agree-
ments with the States for the administration
and management of any area established for
the conservation, protection, restoration, and.
propagation of endangered species. Any
revenues derived from the administration of
such areas under these agreements shall be
subject to the provisions of section 401 of
the Act of June 15,1935 (49 Stat. 383), as
amended (16 U...SC 7155).

Sec 5. (a) (1) Notwithstanding any other
Act of Congress or regulation issued pur-
suant thereto, and except as hereinafter pro-
vided, any person who—-

(i ) imports'into or exports from the United -

States, receives, or causes to be so imported
received or exported. or

(ii) takes or causes to be taken within the
United States, the territorial sea of the
United States, or upon the high seas; or

(iii) ships, carries, or receives by any means
in interstate commerce, any species or sub-
species of fish or wildlife which the Secre-
tary has listed as an endangered species
threatened with extinction pursuant to sec-
tion 2 of this Act, shall be punished in ac-
cordance with the provisions of section 7 of
this Act.

( 2) The prohibitions contained in this sec-
tion shall not apply to American Indians,
Aleuts, or Eskimos ‘ who take endangered
species for their . own consumption or ritual
purposes in accordance with a treaty or pur-
suant to Executive Order or Federal statute.

(3) In order to minimize undue economic
hardship to any person importing, exporting,
taking; or transporting in interstate com-
merce any species or subspecies of fish or
wildlife which is listed as an endangered
species threatened with extinction pursuant
to section 2 of this Act under any contract
entered into prior to the date of original
publication of such listing in the Federal
Register, the Secretary, upon such person
ﬁling an application with him. and upon ﬁl-
ing such information as the Secretary may
require showing, to his satisfaction, such
hardship, may permit such person to import,
export, take or transport such species or sub-
species in such quantities and for such
periods, not to exceed one year, as he deter—
mines to be appropriate.

(b) Whenever the Secretary, pursuant to
section 2 of this Act, lists a species or sub-
species as an endangered species which is
likely within the foreseeable future to be-
come threatened with extinction, he shell is-
sue such regulations as he deem n
or advisable to provide for the conservation,
protection, restoration and propagation of
such species or subspecies, including regula-
tions subjecting to punishment in accord-
ance with section 7 of this Act any person
who-— .

(1) imports into or exports from the

United States, receives, or causes to be so
imported, received. or exported; or

(2) takes or causes to be taken within the 1

United States, the territorial sea of the
United States, or upon the high seas; or
(3) ships, carries, or receives by any means

’5 in interstate commerce, any such species or ‘
‘ subspecies of fish or wildlife likely within
‘ the foreseeable future to become threatened

I

with extinction.

SEC. 6. (a) ,The Secretary may permit. 1111-. '

der such terms and conditions as he may
prescribe, the importation, taking, or the-

- transportation in interstate commerce of

i

. any species or subspecies of ﬁsh or wildlife

listed as . an endangered species threatened
with extinction for zoological, educational,
and scientiﬁc purposes, and for the propaga-
tion of such ﬁsh and wildlife in captivity for
preservation purposes, but only if he ﬁnds
that such importation, taking, 0r transpor-

tation in interstate commerce will not ad- -

versely affect the regenerative capacity of

such specks in a signiﬁcant portion of its

range or otherwise affect the survival of the
wild population of such a .

y (b) The Secretary may, by regulation, dele-
gate to a State the authority to regulate
the taking by any person of an endangered

species when he determines, in his discreﬁ

”tion, that such State maintains an active
program to manage and protect such on-

dangered species in accordance with criteria:

issued by the Secretary.
(0) Any action taken by the Secretary un-
der this section shall be subject to his

periodic and 0011th review at no greater

than annual intervals. Such review shall
include the consideration of comment re-,
ceived from interested persons.

Sec. 7. (a) (1) Any person who violates any;

' provision of section 5 or 6 of this Act or any
' regulation or permit issued thereunder, or

any regulation issued under subsection (d)
or (e) of this section, other than a person

who commits a violation the penalty for
which is prescribed by subsection (b) of this
section, shall be assessed a civil penalty by
the Secretary of not more than $5, 000 for
each such violation. No penalty shall be as-
sessed unless such person is given notice and
opportunity for a hearing with respect to
such violation. Each violation shall be a sep-
arate offense. Any such civil penalty may be
compromised by the Secretary. Upon any
failure to pay the penalty assessed under
this paragraph, the Secretary may request the
Attorney General to institute a civil action
in a district court of the United States for
any district in which such person is found or
resides or transacts business to collect the
penalty, and such court shall have jurisdic-
tion to hear and decide any such action.
In the case of Guam such actions may be
brought in the district court of Guam, in:
the case of the Virgin Islands such actions
may be» brought in the district court of the
Virgin Islands, and in the case of American
Samoa such actions may be brought in the
District Court of the United States for the
district of Hawaii and such courts shall have
jurisdiction of such actions. In hearing such
action, the court shall sustain the Secre-
tary’s action if ‘supported by substantial
evidence.

(2) Whenever any property is seized pur-
suant to subsection , (c) of this section, the
Secretary shall move to dispose of the civil
penalty proceedings pursuant to paragraph
(1) of this subsection as expeditiously as
possible. Upon the assessment of a civil
penalty pursuant to paragraph (1) of this
subsection, any. property so seized may be ‘
proceeded against in any court of competent
jurisdiction and forfeited. Fish or wildlife
so forfeited shall be conveyed to the Secre-
tary for disposition by him in such a man-
ner as he deems appropriate. If, with reSpect
to any such property so seized, no compromise
forfeiture has been achieved or no action is
commenced to obtain the forfeiture of such

ﬁsh, wildlife, property, ‘or item within 30
days following the completion of proceedings
, involving an assessment of a civil penalty,
i such property shall be immediately returned
. to the owner or the consignee in accordance

with regulations promulgated by the Score-
tary ‘

!

(b) Any person who knowingly violates
any provision of section 5 or 6 of this Act,
: or any regulation or permit issued there-
under, or any regulation issued under sub-
section (d) or (e) of this section shall, upon ‘
conviction, be ﬁned not more than $10,000
or imprisoned for not more than one year,
or both, and any Federal hunting or ﬁshing
licenses, permits. or stamps may be revoked

. or withheld for a period of up to 5 years.

Upon conviction, (1) any ﬁsh or wildlife
seized shall be forfeited to the Secretary for
disposal by him in such manner as he deems
appropriate, and (2) any other property
seized pursuant to subsection (c) of this sec-
tion may, in the discretion of the court,
commissioner, or magistrate, be forfeited to
the United States or otherwise disposed of.
If no conviction results from any such al-
leged violation, such property so seized in
connection theretvith shall be immediately
returned to the owner or consignee in accord-
ance with regulations promulgated by the

, Secretary, unlm the Secretary, within 30

days following the final disposition of the
case involving such violation, commences
proceedings under submction (a) of this
section.

(c) (1) The provisions of sections 5 and 6
of this Act and any regulations or permits
issued pursuant thereto, or pursuant -to sub-
section (d) or (e) of this section, shall be
enforced by the Secretary, the Secretary of
the Treasury, or the Secretary of the Depart-

. ment in which the Coast Guard is operating,

or all such Secretaries- Each such Secretary-
may utilize, by agreement, with or without
reimbursement, the personnel, services, and
facilities of any other Federal agency or any
State agency.

 




(2) Any authorized agent of the Depart-
ment of the Interior, the Department of
Commerce, or the Department of the Treas-
ury may, without a warrant, arrest any pa—
son who such agent has probable camie to
believe is knowingly-violating, in his presence
or view, sections or 6 of this Act, or any
regulation or permit issued thereunder, the
penalty for which is provided under subsec-
tion (b) of this seetion. An agent who has
made an arrest of a person in connection
’with any such willful violation may search
such person at the time of his arrest and
$6126 any property taken, used, or possessed
in connection with any such violation.

(3) Any authorized agent of the Depart-
ment of the Interior or the Department of
Commerce or ember of the Customs shall
have authority to search and seize without
a warrant, as provided by the Customs laws
and by the law relating to search and sei—
zure. Said ofﬁcer; or agent is authorized to
execute warrants to search for and seize any
property, including, for the purposes of this
section, any ﬁsh, wildlife, aircraft, boat, or
other conveyance, weapon, business records,
shipping documents, or other items which
have been taken, used, or possessed in con-
nection with the violation of any section,
regulation, or permit with respect to which
a civil or criminal penalty may be assessed,
pursuant to subsection (a) or (b) of this
section. The several judges of the courts
established under the laws of the United
States and the several States, and United
States mgistrates, may, within their respec-
tive jurisdictions, upon proper oath and
afﬁrmation showing probable cause, issue
warrants and subpoenas under the Federal
Rules of Criminal Procedure to enforce sub-
sections (a) and (b) of this section. Any
property seized pursuant to this section shall
be held by any agent authorized by the Sec-
retary or the Secretary of the Treasury, or

by a United States Marshal, pending dis-
position of proceedings under subsection (a)
or (b) of this section; except that either Sec-
rotary may, in lieu of holding such property,
either (1) permit a bond or other satisfactory
surety to be posted, or (2) place the ﬁsh
or wildlife in the custody of such person as
he shall designate. Upon the imposition of
a civil or criminal penalty, or a forfeiture,
the costs to the Government of transfer,
board, and handling, including the cost of
investigations at a non—designated port of
entry, shall be payable to the account of the
Secretary. The owner or consignee of any
property so seized shall, as soon as practicable
following such seizure, be notiﬁed of the
fact in accordance with regulations estab-
lished by the Secretary.

(d) For the purposes of facilitating en~
forcement of sections 5 and 6 of this Act
and reducing the costs thereof, the Secretary,
with the approval of the Secretary of the
Treasury, shall. after notice and an oppor-
tunity for a public hearing, from time to time
designate, by regulation, any port or ports
in the United States for the importation of
ﬁsh and wildlife, other than shellﬁsh and
ﬁshery products imported for commercial
purposes, into the United States. The impor-
tation of such ﬁsh or wildlife into any port
in the, United States, except those so desig-
nated, shall be prohibited after the effective
date of such designations; except that the
Secretary. under such terms and conditions
as he may prescribe. may permit importation
at non—designated ports in the interest of
the health or safety of the fish or wildlife.
Such regulations may provide other excep-
tions to such prohibition if the Secretary,
in his discretion, deems it appropriate and
consistent with the purposes of this subsec-
tion.

(e) The Secretary is authorized to promul-
gate such regulations as may be appropriate
to carry out the purposes of this Act, and
the Secretaries of the‘mssury and the De-

i

partment in which the Coast Guard is operat- .

ing are authorized to promulgate such regu-
lations as 'may be appropriate to the exer-
cise of responsibilities under summon
7(c) (1) of this Act.

w- - u..
x.

Site. 8. (a) In carrying out the provisions
of this Act, the Secretary, through the Sec-
retary of State, shall encourage foreign
countries ‘to provide protection ‘to species
or subspecies of ﬁsh and wildlife threatened
with extinction, to take measures to prevent
any fish or wildlife from becoming threatened
with extinction, and shall cooperate with
such countries in providing technical assist-
ance in developing and carrying out programs
to provide such protection, and shall, through
the Secretary of State, encourage bilateral
and multilateral agreements With such coun--
tries for the protection, conservation, and
propagation of ﬁsh and wildlife. The Secre-
tary Shall also encourage persons. taking di-
rectly or indirectly fish or wildlife in foreign
countries or on the high sees for importation
into the United States- for commercial or
other purposes, to develop and carry out, with
such assistance as homey provide under any
authority available to him, conservation prac-
tices. designed to enhance such ﬁsh or wild-
life and their habitat. The Secretary of State,

in consultation with the Secretary, shall take '

appropriate measures to encourage the devel-
opment of adequate measures, including, if
appropriate, international agreements, to pre-
vent such mm or wildlife from becoming
threatened with extinction.

(b) The Secretary of Agriculture and the
Secretary shall provide for appropriate co-
ordination of the administration of this got
and. amendments 'made' by this Act, with
the administration of the animal quarantine
laws (19 ”0.8.0. 1306; 21 0.8.0. 101-105, 111-
135b,and 612-614) and the Tariff Act of 1980,
as amended (section 1306 of Title 19). Noth-
ing in this Act or any amendment made by

this Act, shall be construed as superseding or
limiting in any manner the functions of the
Secretary of Agriculture under any other
law relating to prohibited or. restricted im-
portations, of animals and other articles and
no proceeding or determintion under this
Act shall preclude any proceeding or be con-
sidered determinative of any issue of fact or
law in any proceeding under any Act admin-
istered by the Secretary of Agriculture.

. (c) Nothing in this Act, or any amend-
ment made by this Act, shall be construed
as superseding or limiting in any manner the
functions and responsibilities of the Score:
tary of the Treasury under the Tariff Act of
1980, as amended, including, without limita-
tion, section 1527 of Title 19 relating to the
importation of wildlife taken, killed, pos-
sessed or exported . to the United States in
violation of the laws or regulations of a. for-
eign country. .

Sec. 9. (3.) Subsection 4(0) of the Act of
October 15, 1966 (80 Stat. 928), as amended
(16 11.8.0. 668dd(c) ) . is further amended by
revising the second sentence' thereof to read
as follows:

“With the exception of endangered spe-
cies listed by the Secretary pursuant to sec-
tion 2 of the Endangered Species, Conserva-
tion Act of 1972, nothing in this Act shall
be construed to authorize the Secretary to
control or regulate hunting or ﬁshing of
resident ﬁsh and wildlife on lands not within
the system.” . ,

(b) Subsection 10 (a) of the Migratory Bird
Conservation Act (45 Stat. 1224) , as amend-

ed (16 U.8.C. 715 1(a) ), 16 further dmended I

by inserting “on likely within the foreseeable
future to become threatened with” between
the words “with” and “extinction”.

(c) Subsection 401(a) of the Act of June
15, 1935 (49 Stat. 383) as amended (16 USC,
715 3(3) ), is further amended by; inserting
“or likely within the foreseeable future to
become threatened with” between the words
“with” and extinction” in the last sentence
thereof. , ‘

(d) Subsection 6(a) (1) of the Land and
Water Conservation Fund Act of 1965 (78
Stat. 903) , as amended (16 11.8.0. 460 1—9(a)
(1) ), is further amended by inserting “or
likely within he foreseeable future to be-
come threatened with“ between the Words
“with” and “extinction”. - _

Sec. 10. 9. Sections {through 3 of the
Act of Octéber 15, 1966 (80“‘Stat. 926, 927).
as amended (16 U.S.C. 668aa-6680c) , are here-
by repealed in their entirety.

(b) Sections 1 through 6 of the. Act of
December 5, 1969 (83 Stat. 275—279; 16_ 11.5.0.
6680c-1 through 668cc—6) are ‘hereby repealed

in their entirety.

N“.

 




....

... :1 ...... . . ..J ... . u . .W. ....U ..
....u «.... ...... "L ex. ...au 0...- .....n... F. .....P
: 5

C

......c. w .. 6.....TL ......»v r+rw«V.ﬂ..Q.aHawww%

:3.ch HQ... pan... .

I

.../.....l; ,. , . .. . .... .. ... V..........u .
.. J A . . ...... ... ..
. . . .. .. ... .. . ... ..H a" ......t... .. .... .. ..

..... .. .. r
..I. rx ....
...JEW.’ .
.1... . ..t.... h
0.1.. v31... .. .
5.1 ~ ... 3...}! ..

_. . _

. .../l . _ . . .... \4/ .. ...
. . . .1 . . . ... .
...? .f\~ (1.: .r R .IV Q .i\ n ....

.... .., ....
{xv/KM»...-

s}; . _,
+1 ....
..K. G»... ...... .. . .. .. . . . .... u . .. . . r k. .V...._.....,..
.. ...n .. . 1... \ I. v._. . . . \. .... H ... . .. .... x.. . . , . 1. . .. . i .... . .. . . .1. :1. \. .. .I
.42.... .0..er T... .r\. «K. «Kr. Q frwik C ...L ; . 1 . . .. . .. . . ._ “(ﬁnﬁ C «V .IL. 0 U

m .. . . I .\§ .. ..

.1.

I
.... y. Ra \v/ . . \ . 1’ ..‘v 1.: x) .
. . . . _ a l a x. .. . .1.’ .. ¢ .
.. .... 14L ....pVPLry ...-......u.

k. \l. ..x.

C. . m. r C Q

JNmZDOO «um—:0 .v-DIDQmem Ju<—.8-5—
EOPoml—D huh—(Pm .Z<DEOJ ... ICE—maul."-
oﬁou .06 22.92.7355 . .
.(> .C... .022“ .Q =<11=3

MOMMEZOO ZO ”nut—S. 5.00 555... .mzu>m...m 0m... :55... .5502. .0. 492.3
.093 .0..u.u...<... .0 25.3. 6.0 6025.5: .... ...mmzmu

.5. .2000 ..5 30.5.5: :5... .302 .u 224.5.

”ﬂcha “a“.dwa “9*ﬂgu a .zzu... :5. .525 .2 05.30... .5 620.. .n ....ummam
O .10.: .2355. .... ...mmuom .>mz .20225 ..s 025502

.025. .2825... .m 9325. .20.: ..E<... .< ......zn.

..5 $.52... 2052.3 .02. 0.2.5.5.. muz<>

2 .29....00 25.02 ...2 £295.... .0 220..

Z<2¢_<IO ..Im‘: .ZOmDZO<E .0 Zulu—(.5

 




MARK O. HATFIELD OREGON

Qltnileb $51k: ﬁcnafe

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20510

June 30, 1971

Mrs. Frances Phillips
214 North Steuben
Chanute, Kansas 66720

Dear Mrs. Phillips:

A few hours ago, the Senate unanimously passed 8.1116 which
provides for the protection of wild free-roaming horses and

burros. Because of your interest and efforts, I wanted to
share this happy news with you right away.

8.1116 will now he considered by the House of Representatives,
and it is my sincere hope that that body will act promptly to
assure final passage of this legislation. If you are interested
in eXpressing your further support for the bill, you may wish

to contact your own Congressman or the House of Representatives
Interior Committee.

Again, I want to express my deepest appreciation for your interest
in this measure to preserve these animals which have won a special
place in the hearts of adults and children alike. The "pencil war,"
waged so effectively by school children in Oregon and across the
nation, is indeed well on its way to being won!

Kindest regards.

Sincerely,

      

Mark O. Hatfie
United States Senator
MOH : Dd

 




 

MARK O. HATFIELD

OREGON

Qltnﬂeb ﬁfafes ﬁcnafe

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20510

June 16, 1971

Mrs. Frances Phillips
214 North Steuben
Chanute, Kansas 66720

Dear Mrs. Phillips:

Today 8.1116, which provides for the protection of wild
free-roaming horses and burros, passed a major step
toward approval. I knew that you would be interested in
this good news.

The Senate Interior Committee, of which I am a member,
approved the bill this morning. Based upon this favorable
Committee action, I feel we can expect Senate approval of
this proposal in the near future.

8.1116, as revised slightly by the Committee, will provide
for the protection of wild horses on public lands by
prohibiting their capture, branding, harassment or unlawful
killing.

This Committee action is truly a tribute to the efforts of
concerned citizens and especially Oregon's school children,
who have lobbied so actively to save these animals.

Sincerely,

      

Iark O. Hatfield
United States Senator
MOHde

 

 




HENRY M. JACKSON, WASH.. CHAIRMAN

CLINTON P. ANDERSON, N. MEX. GORDON ALLO'IT. COLO.
ALAN BIBLE, NEV. LEN B. JORDAN, IDAHO
FRANK CHURCH, IDAHO PAUL J. FANNIN, ARIZ.
FRANK E. MOSS, UTAH CLIFFORD P. HANSEN. WYO.

QUENTIN N. BURDICK, N. DAK. MARK O. HATFIELD. OREG. .
GEORGE MCGOVERN, s. DAK. TED STEVENS, ALASKA ‘ :Ilc f a ﬁt f $ 1
LEE METCALF, MONT. HENRY BELLMON, OKLA. at e a cg an“ 2
MIKE GRAVEI... ALASKA

COM M ITTEE ON

JERRY 7- VERKLER' STAFF ”“5"” INTERIOR AND INSULAR AFFAIRS
WASHINGTON. D.C. 20510

June 4, 1971

Ms. Erma L. Hnebner
2536 Kane St.
Klamath Falls, Oregon 97601

Dear Ms. Hnebner:

Thank you for your letter regarding animal welfare legislation. Your
comments about Kingsley Field were also deeply appreciated.

'I too share your concern about the plight of the wild horses
is for this reason tha . V v~~ :‘ s-‘v,,

their Protection. 3”»JMVa' - ‘ ~
work for the passage of this legislation as I believe it is an impOrtant
step in our efforts to preserve and enhance our nation 5 ecological system.

I appreciate the time you took to write, and I hope you will continue
to share your views with me in the future.

Sincerely,

W

Mark O. Hatfield
United States Senator

MOH:D
Enclosure

 




United States
of America

Vol. 117 ‘

PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES or THE 92" CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION

 

 

 

 

WASHINGTON, TUESDAY, MARCH 16,1971

 

”W...

REFUGES FOR wnn HORSES

Mr. HATFIELD. Mr. President, it
seems to me entirely pro-per today to
recognize the efforts of a most dedicated
lobby-the schoolchildren of Oregon and
their counterparts across the Nation. It
was the children’s letters and- pictures,
compelling in their simplicity, that ﬁrst
alerted me to the plight of the free-
roaming horses and burros in the United
States

These wild horses are part of our
treasured Western heritage, and their
free-roaming ancestors were invaluable
to explorers Lewis and Clark as they
journeyed to the Paciﬁc. Yet, as with
many of nature’s creatures, the con-
tinual development of _ the West has
forced the. wild horses, and burros into
the 7 most desolate areas of that vast
land to escape man’s harrassment and
commercialization. Today there are less
than 17 ,000 wild horses in this country,
and their numbers are diminishing
rapidly

S 1116 which I am sponsoring with
the Senator from Washington (Mr.
JAGKSON) is designed to protect the last
of these free-roaming horses by requir-
ing the Secretary of the Interior to es—

tablish and maintain a minimum of 12
refuges with the advice’ of a board of
qualiﬁed scientists.’

This measure is needed to spare these
animals from the cruel and, inhumane

» treatment to ”Which they. have become

prey, and to insure that future genera-
tions of children will know the romance

and nobility of the wild horse.

Daily we are becoming aware of the
fact that we are running out of. resources
for all forms of life in our global village,
and to maintain every species properly,
conservation and careful planning are
needed. This bill is an important step
toward achieving that goal.

It is now my sincere hope that Con-
gress heeds the voices Of our children,
and enacts this important legislation

. without delay.

I ask unanimous consent to have
p1 inted in the Recent”? a section- by—sec-
tion analysis of the bill.

Thére being no objection, the analysis
was ordered to be printed in the RECORD
as follows:

SECTION-BYv-SECTION ANALYSIS

Section 1: Section states the various pur-
poses of the Act. Speciﬁcally, it states that
it is the sense 01’ the Congress that the few-
remaining free—roaming wild horses and bur-
ros be given protectionas part of our na-
tional heritage. It states that this end shall
be accomplished. by the designation or estab-
lishment by the' Secretary of Interior of spe-
ciﬁc sanctuaries on federal land for these
animals.

Section 2: Section 2 deﬁnes “Secretary”,
“Wild free- -roaming horses and burros”,
“ranges”, “band”, and “herd”. -°

Section 3: Section 3 places all wild free-a
roaming horses and burios under the juris-
diction of the Secretary of Interior,,and di-
rects him to designate, establish, and-main-
tain a minimum of twelve sanctuaries for
the protection and preservation of existing
bands of wild horses and burros. It also pro-
vides means for humane thinning of‘ the
herds where necessary, and it speciﬁcally pro"
hibits the killing of these animals on the
ranges by. private individuals.

Section 4;: Section 4 authorizes the keep-
ing of wild horses and hurros on private land
or land leased from the Government, if the
animals are being protected from the harass-
ment which this bill is designed. to alleviate-

Section 5 Section 5 authorizes the Secre-
tary of Interior to enter into cooperative

: agreements with the state and local govern-

ments and with private land owners, and to
is‘sue certain regulations as he deems nec-
essary.

Section 6: Section 6 calls for the—establish-

7 ment of an advisory board of non-govern-

mental experts to advise the Secretary of

_ Interior as to carrying out the provisions of
this Act.

Sections 7 and 8: Sections 7 and 8 provide
penalties for those who might violate the

5 provisions of this {Act or the regulations is-
; sued thereunder.

Section 9: Section 9 authorizes the appro-

‘ priation of sums necessary to carry out the
. provisions of this Act.

Section. 10: Section 10, which has been

‘ included to prevent undue alarm by the
' livestock industry, speciﬁcally limits the
. Secretary of Interior in the designation and '

establishment of ranges. He is limited to

7 those areas of the public lands where wild
; horses and burros presently exist.

Section 11: Section 11 provides the periodic
reports by the Secretary of the Interior to

1 Congress with "respect to the administra-

tion or the Act.

 




COMMITTEES:
MARK 0' HATFIELD INTERIOR AND INSULAR AFFAIRS
OREGON AERONAUTICAL AND

”Rifnileb ﬁfafes ﬁenaic

SELECT COMMITTEE ON SMALL BUSINESS
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20510

("I «~
December 17, 1971 ##IfIMZQQCIkI/
I

rest LWIK

UWILH I/buj «weaﬁﬂy

Mrs. William Denby

School Lane
Lloyd Harbor
Huntington, L.I., N. Y. 11743

Dear Mrs. Denby:

The White House advised me today that President
Nixon signed the Wild Horse Protection legislation
into law. I knew you would want to know this
happy news.

The enactment of 8.1116 into law is truly a legis-
lative success story, and the thousands of children.;\jIIL C qf‘p\
Q r

and adults th~wQ£5§§mfor its naSSage are to be /
commended The SenSeleSS'sIaﬁwhter of wi‘d’Free- Ii it zﬁﬂ£u4é5
roaming horses and burros will now be prohibited, / I L I
and these animals will be protected from cruel Gﬂf

harassment. UAVD IZLC 66.2
I

The approval of this measure illustrates how 074/ yhvevs
effective the legislative process can be when 78
MM! FIZ‘I/
é“

ow; {II If“ I

citizens and their elected representatives work
together, and I hope you will continue to share .
your comments with me.

With every good wish for a happy holiday and a
peaceful new year. A

Sincerely,

Mark 0. Hatfield
United States Senator
MOI-I : Dd

 




HENRY M. JACKSON, WASH.. CHAIRMAN

CLINTON P. ANDERSON, N. MEX. GORDON ALLOTT. COLO.
ALAN BIBLE, NEv. LEN 3. JORDAN, IDAHO
FRANK CHURCH. IDAHO PAUL J. FANNIN. ARIz.
FRANK E. MOSS, UTAH CLIFFORD P. HANSEN. wvo.

QUENTIN N. BURDICK, N. DAK. MARK O. HATFIELD, OREG. Q Q

GEORGE MC GOVERN. S. DAK. TED STEVENS, ALASKA It” i b giai g I! “i
GAYLORD NELSON, WIS. HENRY BELLMON, OKLA. I e e e 9
LEE METCALF. MONT.

MIKE GRAVEL. ALASKA COM MITTEE ON

INTERIOR AND INSULAR AFFAIRS

JERRY T. VERKLER, STAFF DIRECTOR
WASHINGTON. D.C. 205“)

February 6, 1970

Mrs. Harry Foye
3626 N.E. 63 Avenue
Portland, Oregon 97213

Dear Mrs. Foye:

Thank you  for your recent correspondence regarding

a..;»w?.4 ;;,Z» 14* _ protections of the
1-,Is'f”*t ~93§riwaﬂﬁﬂThiﬂ%agiﬂi I‘vwgvanimals.
M‘” understand the concern which you and Mrs.

Keller showed in writing to me.

Because this legislation is not on the Senate floor
yet for a vote, your letter and your views will be
considered carefully as I study this matter. The
legislation currently is before the House Agriculture
Committee. The Department of Agriculture has been
requested to present a special report on this
situation to the Committee, but at present this
report has not been received.

I apprec1age your EXpr.
,‘_PPOposal,wé’*_y., I

’¢:g;f,‘;’ .8?-

such as yourself
ataandate-‘xrq«w»w-~u ., »

Thank you for writing. I hOpe you will continue
to inform me of your opinions on matters of
particular concern to you.

Sincerely,
, -'-’a W

Mark O. Hatfield
United States Senator

 




MARK o. HATFIELD COMMITTEES:
OREGON INTERIOR AND INSULAR AFFAIRS

Qlfnifeb ${afcs ﬁeuafe

SPACE SCIENCES
SELECT COMMITTEE ON SMALL BUSINESS
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20510

August 23, 1969

Dear Mrs. Shaw:

Thank you for your letter regarding thegiaﬁﬁEﬁﬁﬁQﬁ?Tff¢ﬁ,yExam,f
on animal welfare. ‘”mﬁ”*“*

The Rogers-Javits bill, S. 2UH6, is presently pending before
the Senate Committee on Labor and Public Welfare.Qngv :~-.
legislation could have varying ramifications, ' ‘

the benefit of the Congressional hearings before reaching a
final determination on the bill. I am sure that your views
will be most helpful to me as this measure comes to the
Senate floor for action.

As you may know, H.R. 11363, providing for the preservation
of fish and wildlife, is also pending before committee. I
shall also give careful consideration to this legislation
should it reach the Senate floor.

Again, your interest in writing to me and your concern in
this matter are most appreciated.

Sincerely,

United States Senatdr

Mrs. Russie Shaw
954 1/2 Broadway
Bend Oregon

MOHzed

 




WARREN G. MAGNUSON, WASH., CHAIRMAN

JOHN O. PASTORE. R.I. NORRIS COTTON. NJ'I.
VANCE HAR'I'KE. IND. WINSTON PROUTY, VT.
PHILIP A. HART, MICH. JAMES B. PEARSON. KANS.

HOWARD w. CANNON, NEV. ROBERT P. GRIFFIN, men. .
RUSSELL a. LONG. LA. HOWARD H. BAKER, JR., TENN.
Fm”, "0......” mm mm... QICnIIeB ﬁfafeﬁ ﬁenafe
ERNEST F. HOLLINGS. s.c. MARK o. HATFIELD, DREG.
DANIEL K. INOUYE, HAWAII TED STEVENS, ALASKA COMMITTEE ON COMMERCE
WILLIAM B. spans. .IR.. VA.
WASHINGTON, 0.0. 2.0510

FREDERICK J. LORDAN, STAFF DIRECTOR
MICHAEL PERTSCHUK. CHIEF COUNSEL

June 30, l97l

Mrs. June E. Foye
3626 N.E. 63rd Avenue
Portland, Oregon 972l3

Dear Mrs. Foye:

’{Ih “4" ﬂoat?

Thank“%QMWJWW””TWf letter regarding t ﬁﬂﬂQQ$eQEJQn of .Mww

Please be assured that I share your concern for the
plight of these {ﬂeaturesy and.It is for this _reason
that l have Jorﬁfﬁﬁwf§%éwsﬁonﬁﬁnwwg SkléhE, ﬁﬁﬁ‘dﬁgfﬁ
Egg.[*fgmgﬂggggmmgmmﬁga-@ﬁwtgyjfg;TmIs measure provides
”“§“ComprehenSIve approach for the protection of ocean
mammals, including whales, as well as representing an
important step toward the preservation of our globe's

precious ecological system.

The time is past when man can ignore the crucial inter—
dependence of various species of wildlife, and you can
be certain that I will work actively for the passage
of S.l3l5.

Thank you again for writing.

Sincerely,

Mark O. Hatfield
United States Senator

 




MARK O. HATFIELD OREGON

@Cnifeb ﬁfafez ﬁcnafe

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20510

June 30, 1971

Mrs. William C. Faber
7610 West Hortense Street
Chicago, Illinois

Dear Mrs. Faber:

$51 {ygmsed‘ 5:51.116 Whlchl

«It ”A9143.“

rod Ii 1e ' wee-Name names

Ila ‘
‘JJ: t’ﬁ’véxq

1; a" a I '
JKJ‘1‘9‘uh i

I 4' Wm: meg“

ecause of your intefeawﬁéﬁa”effert I wanted to

fiﬁﬂns e tnis nappy news Wlth you W.Tft*away.

8.1116 will now be considered by the House of Representatives,
and it is my sincere hOpe that that body will act promptly to
assure final passage of this legislation. If you are interested
in expressing your further support for the bill, you may wish

to contact your own Congressman or the House of Representatives
Interior Committee.

Again, I want to express my deepest appreciation for your interest
in this measure to preserve these animals which have won a special
place in the hearts of adults and children alike. The "pencil war,"
waged so effectively by school children in Oregon and across the
nation, is indeed well on its way to being won!

Kindest regards.

Sincerely,

Mark O. Hatfield
United States Senator
MOH:Dd

 




MARK O. HATFIELD

‘qr S . L‘ri -.-
7610 vies
Chicaco,

Dear Mrs-3 .

Today S.l
free—roaming
"GT to}? I. "‘:.-"-R'*v.?-‘-;:7 v at

Calmittee action, I feel we caﬁ evneCt

OREGON
Qltuifeb ﬁfafez ﬁcnafe
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20510

June l6, 1971

C. Faber
rtense Street
inois

Faber:

whicn UVOVlqu for the protection
horses and burros,ﬁweyﬁpg '

"‘.' ﬂ
‘.._
w ~'-,j;.

‘ z r» , , ‘5“;17-33" *‘ 53“
~ 2m ; 5190/: um avara} le
enate approval Of

this proyosal in the near future.

8.1116,
for the

as revised
Crotection of wild horSCs on public lands by

Slightly by the Committee, Will Croviﬁe

Croniniting their capture, Irancina, harassment or unlawful

killing.

This Committee action is truly a tribute to the CFFortq 0F
conC cerned citi7ens and especially 3regen's school chil? rCn,
who have lobbied SQ actively to save these animals.

I 7(7) I if : D (3.

’incerCly,

Mark O. Hattield
United ﬁtatee ﬁenatmr

 




. HATFIELD OREGON

’QJCnifeb $51k: ﬁenafe

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20510

June 2, 1971

Mrs. William c. Faber
7610 West Hortense street
Chicago, Illinois

Dear Mrs. Faber:

_The plight of these animals is of great concern to me as
well, and it is tor this reason that l am_co-sponsorinq
S.lllb in the senate Which Will prQVide for their pro-
tection. l am enclos1nq a COpy of my remarks on the rloor
or the Senate and an analysis of the bill which l thought
would be of interest to you.

You can be assured that l ;‘

'w“”ourqelrortsmtow
ecological system.

Again, l appreciate the time you took to write, and l hepe
you Will not hesitate to do so in the future.

Sincerely,

Marx O. Hattield
United States Senator
MOM : Dd
Enclosure

 




Qltnifeb ${afes ﬁenafc

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20510

February 17, 1969

Dear Ms. Huebner:

Thank you so much for your recent communication
urging my opposition to legislation calling for
the repeal of the Laboratory Animal Welfare Act
(P. L. 89-544).

I was pleased to receive your comments on this
proposed legislation and will certainly keep your
Views in mind when action is called for on this
measure on the Senate floor.

Your interest in contacting me in this regard is
very much appreciated.

Sincerely, \
Mark 0. Hatfield
United States Senator

Ms. Erma L. Huebner
2536 Kane Street
Klamath Falls, Oregon 97601

MOH:ud

 




MARK O. HATFIELD COMMITTEES:
OREGON INTEREOR AND INSULAR AFFAIRS
AGRICULTURE AND FORESTRY
SELECT COMMITTEE ON SMALL BUSINESS

QICnifeb ﬁfafez grenade

WASHINGTON. D.C.

July 20, 1967

Dear Mrs. Proebstel:

Thank you for your letter concerning the Laboratory
Animal Welfare Act (P. . 89—50“).

As you may know, this act was passed last year and

$325,000 was made available for its promulgation.
Some $300,000 was actually used during the year.

. This year, the Department of Agriculture asked that
$l,500,000 be appropriated for continuation of the
program. However, as passed by the House of Repre—
sentatives, the act was provided with only $300,000,
an amount many of us considered inadequate to
finance the prOper inepection of animal dealers.

After debate on July ll, the Senate Subcommittee on
Agricultural Appropriations decided to ask an appro—
priation of $1,200,000. This amended bill will now
be presented to the Senate and referred for final

resolution to a Joint Conference Committee.

You may be assured of my continuing interest in this
legislation and of my appreciation for your correspondence.
Sincerely, 3
i ,a "K “3‘

\ v
V.‘
;
"‘Zﬂ‘v’mw‘ﬁnwwi ‘J .‘ AW ‘, w‘
' 2‘ . , ‘3'” . "5%., ,9? " ‘VEW‘m-‘mw‘7“-"""§umk ‘
«919%,?

M_ark 0. Hatfield
United States Senator

MRS. Carl Proebstel
3606 S. 6th St.
Klamath Falls, Oﬁegon

MOH:MC

 




MARK O. HATFIELD

OREGON I0R AND INSULAR AFFAIRS
AGRICULTURE AND FORESTRY
SELECT COMMITTEE ON SMALL BUSINESS

Qltnifeb ${afez $¢n

WASHINGTON. D.C.

August 30, 1967

Dear Ms. Stevens:

Thank you for your letter concerning the Laboratory
Animal Welfare Act (P.L. 89-51Ih).

As you may know, this act was passed last year and
$325,000 was made available for its promulgation.
Some $300,000 was actually used during the year.

This year, the Department of Agriculture asked that
$1,500,000 be appropriated for continuation of the
program. However, as passed by the House of Repre-
sentatives, the act was provided with only $300,000,
an amount many of us considered inadequate to finance
the proper inspection of animal dealers.

After debate on July 11, the Senate Subcommittee on
Agricultural Appropriations decided to ask an appro-
priation of $1,200,000. This amended bill will now
be presented to the Senate and referred for final
resolution to a Joint Conference Committee.

YOu may be assured of my continuing interest in this
legislation and of my appreciation for your corre-
spondence.

Sincerely, 3

Q

- l - dry-1% "J. v . .- r , .2" a“? 3'
. emmizﬂf W M w I

Mark 0. Hatfield
United States Senator

Ms. Christine Stevens
P. O. Box 3719, Georgetown Station
Washington, D. C. 20007

MOHch

 




f ‘
ALLEN J. ELLENDER, LA., CHAIRMAN

SPESSARD I... HOLLAND, FLA. 4.x", GEORGE D. AIKEN, VT.
JAMES O. EASTLAND, MISS. MILTON R. YOUNG, N. DAK.
HERMAN E. TALMADGE, GA. J. CALEB BOGGS, DEL.

B. EVERETT JORDAN. N.C. JACK MILLER, IOWA

GEORGE MC GOVERN, S. DAK. MARK O. HATFIELD, OREG. g C Of a ﬁt f ﬁ 1
JOSEPH M. MONTOYA, N. MEX.
WALTER F. MONDALE, MINN. “1 e a cg en“ e

HARRY F. BYRD, JR., VA.
ERNEST F. HOLLINGS, s.c. COMMITTEE ON

AGRICULTURE AND FORESTRY
cows M. MOUSER, CHIEF CLERK

March 30, 1967

Mrs. S. J. Buquet
324 East 7th Street
Reno, Nevada

Dear Mrs. Buquet:

I Thank you for your March 20 letter regarding
apprOpriations to fund the Laboratory Animal
Welfare Act.

As a result of my inquiry, I have been advised
by the staff of the Appropriations Committee
that an apprOpriation of $lO0,000 was made to
fund the Laboratory Animal Welfare Act by the
89th Congress. I have further been advised
that there is pending for hearings before the
Appropriations Committee an appropriation of
$l,BO0,000 for the fiscal year beginning

July l, 1967. I trust that these apprOpria—
tions will be adequate for the proper enforce—
ment of the Act.

I appreciate your interest in writing to me
about this matter.

Sincerely,

Mark O. Hatfield
United States Senator

 




‘ 4 ‘ ,. J 3"” 3'
. j ; r ’ai‘rrllb“ ’ 3,2
Ii 3 ‘ '

ALLEN J. ELLENDER, LA., CHAIRMAN
SPESSARD L. HOLLAND, FLA. GEORGE D. AIKEN, VT.
JAMES o. EASTLAND, MISS. MILTON R. YOUNG, N. DAK.
HERMAN E. TALMADGE, GA. J. CALEB BOGGS, DEL.
B. EVERETT JORDAN, N.C. JACK MILLER, IOWA
GEORGE MC GOVERN, S. DAK. MARK O. HATFIELD, OREG. wt of h [gt f g i
JOSEPH M. MONTOYA, N. MEX.
WALTER F. MONDALE, MINN. at e a 9% an“ e
HARRY F. BYRD, JR., VA.
ERNEST F. HOLLINGS, S.C. COM MlTTEE ON
AGRICULTURE AND FORESTRY
COTYS M. MOUSER, CHIEF CLERK

1' I“?
I.“ 41‘ .
; I

T"? '3" 'v w o
.‘I‘ I (3 C? (7...: II

you for

~~ — (v --. - V .« '3 , .-
:C;&»LVC u: your

’ ‘ I” T. “T. r w ',--. ~- -‘
ZIKFLII“ 1JIEQJLJE3111J,3

DWJHI46:13.00
.,- I,... .._-.~ ,_..
- 1‘: (- 3 F911} 3 IN” THE?
.._ .. I. ., J W .,_, .

C 4‘

Immuals

. ._ .. ‘.-. -~ .
a. me If}! .7 (:2'1"

4

T." .. ., . ,
amﬁ?&t£ﬂ‘

 




August 14, 1979’

Honorable Mark_0. Hatfield?
Senate Office Buildingww, #
Washington, D.C. “23310

Dear Senator Hatfield:

It was a pleasure to see you at the Dickersons and talk about wolves,
whales, snail darters and other creatures. One thing we didn't discuss
is trapping. Hearings are exPected in the House in October.

. I am enclosing some_current information on four leg snares that are
being tested as effective alternatives to the steelajaw, leghold trap that
breaks bones and because so many of the victims fight it so fiercely,'
results in broken teeth and gums gnawed down to the jaw bone. A thoroughly
. documented comparison of the Swedish leg snare and the steel trap shows

a massive reduction of injury when the snare is used. The Canadian snare
has been received enthusiastically bv Canadian trappers beCause it is
both lighter in-weight and less expensive. The New Zealand Johnstone'
'Animal Trap is getting local trapper reviews now, and the Ezyonem designed
by Elmer Davies in New York is still in patent-pending status.

With improved leg snares being developed all-over the world, the
steel trap's days should be numbered. But we have'had little success so

far with Animal Damage Control, though they use the Aldrich snare when they
want to capture an animal for relocation and don't want it to be injured.

Best wishes,

Sincerely,

Christine Stevens
Secretary

CS/fl
enclosures

 




'$}i‘§-\.

M AR K o. H ATFI ELD . OREGbN...
" r.

a
‘1

QJCnifeh ${afe2a ﬁenaie

WASHINGTON. D.C. 20510

April 1“, 19??

Ms. Erna L. Huebner
l§?6 Kane Street
,slawatn Falls, Oregon $7601

1'

Dear Ms. ﬁuebner:

Thank you for your recent correspondence expressing your
for legislation to restrict the use of lsgncld trans.

wuqu—oﬂ- 1: gm wage". n. i with n M...“ an.“ N” . a. «nu

Several pieces of legislation have been introduced to nravent
unnecessary suffering and killing of animals by pronibiting the
use of painful trapping nevicss, mors specifically leg~hols and
steel-jaw traps.

A strong lobby effort continues to push for trapping reform
around the country and several states have legislation banning
leg-hold traps. Efforts on the federal level, however, have been
st mied by the absence of an effective alternative device. There
is undeniable evidence that many animals s ffer needlessly in the
jaws of leg—hold traps and that many of these traps are set by
amateurs who leave traps unattended for weeks at a time. Put
there remains a need to use such traps to control animal
populations and disease and to protect property from damage
caused by predators. Alternative devices have been suggested to
replace the steel-jaw trap but some of these traps have very
limited epolioations.

While I have been supportive of the intent of some trapping
legislation, many questions remain unsolved on this issue.
Please be assured that I will find your comments very helpful
I review this legislation.

ﬂincerely,

WW.

Mark G. Hatfield
Unite S‘ates Senator

MOH/dhc

7767

 




CLAIBORNE FELL, R.I., CHAIRMAN

HOWARD W. CANNON. NEV. MARK O. HATFIELD, GREG.
ROBERT C. BYRD. W. VA. HOWARD H. BAKER, JR.. TENN.
HARRISON A. WILLIAMS. JR., NJ. JOHN TOWER, TEX.

WENDELL H. FORD. KY. RICHARD S. SCHWEIKER, PA.
DENNIS DE CONCINI. ARIZ.

WILLIAM MC WHORTER COCHRANE, STAFF DIRECTOR 9‘] [nifeh $£a£e$ $enafe

CHESTER H. SMITH. CHIEF COUNSEL
THOMAS K. DECKER, MINORITY STAFF DIRECTOR COMMITTEE ON

RULES AND ADMINISTRATION
WASHINGTON. D.C. 20510

July 19, 1979

Mr. Philip Ratcliff
4115 West 18th Avenue, #30
Eugene, Oregon 97402

Dear Mr. Ratcliff:

Thank you for your letter regarding the Tellico Dam and the
Animal Damage Control program.

You will be pleased to know that I voted against the authoriza-
tion for the completion of the Tellico project. However, as

you know, Representative Duncan of Tennessee attached such an
authorization to the Public Works Appropriation Bill for Fiscal
Year 1980. I voted in favor of an amendment to strike Represen—
tative Duncan's language from the bill when it was considered

in the Senate. Rest assured that I will follow this matter
closely and keep your Views in mind as it is considered in the
House-Senate conference committee.

At the present time, legislation which would outlaw the steel

jaw leghold trap is pending in the Senate Environment and .

Public WOrks Committee. I am following that legislation Wlth

interest. Also, rest assured that the Animal Damage Control

program will receive my special attention as it is conSidered
.Uby the Senate Appropriations Committee.

Thank you again for writing. I appreciate you taking time to
share your views with me.

Kind regards.

Sincerely,
\

‘\..
, _..- u. w ' .- ,- I" ' u . /';‘y
,Ziawmlsr~u UWKF¢Mx "H““””“wva//

Mark O. Hatfield
United States Senator

 




CLAIBORNE FELL. R.I.. CHAIRMAN

HOWARD W. CANNON, NEV. MARK O. HATFIELD, OREG.
ROBERT C. BYRD. W. VA. HOWARD H. BAKER, JR., TENN.
HARRISON A. WILLIAMS. JR., N.J. JOHN TOWER, TEX.

WENDELL H. FORD, KY. RICHARD S. SCHWEIKER, PA.
DENNIS DE CONCINI. ARIZ.

WILLIAM MC WHORTER COCHRANE, STAFF DIRECTOR g (“itch $£a£e$ ﬁendie

CHESTER H. SMITH. CHIEF COUNSEL
THOMAS K. DECKER. MINORITY STAFF DIRECTOR COMMITTEE ON

RULES AND ADMINISTRATION
WASHINGTON. D.C. 20510

August 2, 1979

Ms. Erma L. Huebner
2536 Kane Street
Klamath Falls, Oregon 97601

Dear Ms. Huebner:

Thank you for your letter regarding the Tellico project and
the Animal Damage Control Program.

You will be pleased to know that I voted against the authoriza-
tion for the completion of the Tellico project. The Tellico
Dam is both unsafe and economically unwise -- not to mention its
environmental impact.

However, as you may know, Representative Duncan, of Tennessee,
attached an amendment to the Public Works Appropriations Bill
for Fiscal Year 1980 that would exempt the Tellico Dam from

the Endangered Species Act. I voted in favor of an amendment

to strike Representative Duncan's language from the bill when

it was considered in the Senate. Furthermore, in the House-
Senate Conference Committee on Appropriations, I spoke against
completion of the Tellico Dam and ensured that funds for that
project were not included in the Fiscal Year 1980 Appropriations
Bill.

Also, be assured of my concern about the apparent inhumane
practices associated with the Animal Damage Control Program.
At the present time, legislation to outlaw the steel jaw
leghold trap is pending in the Senate Environment and Public
Works Committee. I will be following that legislation closely
and will keep your views in mind should it reach the Senate
floor. Also, rest assured that the Animal Damage Control pro-
gram will receive my special scrutiny as it is considered by
the Senate Appropriations Committee.

Thank you again for writing. I appreciate your taking time to
share your views with me.

Kind regards.

Sincerely,

MOH:jcj

 




not w W49

WARREN G. MAGNUSON, WASH.. CHAIRMAN

JOHN C. STENNIS, MISS. MILTON R. YOUNG, N. DAK.

ROBERT C. BYRD, W. VA. MARK O. HATFIELD. OREG.

WILLIAM PROXMIRE, WIS. TED STEVENS, ALASKA _

DANIEL K. INOUYE, HAWAII CHARLES MC C. MATHIAS, JR., MD. .

ERNEST F. HOLLINGS. S.C. RICHARD S. SCHWEIKER, PA. \ ‘ ,U’C f h ﬁf 1 $ £
BIRCH BAYH, IND. HENRY BELLMON, OKLA. \ at e a eg 9““ e
THOMAS F. EAGLETON, MO. LOWELL P. WEICKER, JR., CONN.

LAWTON CHILES, FLA. JAMES A. MC CLURE. IDAHO

J. BENNETT JOHNSTON, LA. PAUL LAXALT, NEV. COMMITTEE ON APPROPRIATIONS
WALTER D. HUDDLESTON. KY. JAKE GARN, UTAH

QUENTIN N. BURDICK, N. DAK. HARRISON SCHMITT. N. MEX. WASHINGTON' D'C' 20510

PATRICK J. LEAHY. VT.

JIM SASSER. TENN.

DENNIS DE CONCINI, ARIZ.

DALE BUMPERS, ARK.

JOHN A. DURKIN, N.H.

w. FEATHERSTONE REID STAFF DIRECTOR
f JOEL E. BONNER. JR., MINORITY STAFF DIRECTOR Nove mb 3 r 7 , 1 9 7 9

[,7

\z’

Ms. Emma Chapin
1612 Manzanita
Klamath Falls, Oregon 97601

Dear Ms. Chapin:

”Thank you for your most recent cOrrespondence.

As I mentioned in my previous letter, I am continuing to
carefully consider all aspects of legislative efforts at
trapping reform. Certainly, I deplore any cruel methods
used for predator control and support developments which
help to avoid situations in which animals may either suffer
at the hands of man or injure themselves unnecessarily. It
must be recognized that a primary consideration in any pro-
hibition on trapping will be the difficulty of enforcing
new regulations, as it is with exiSting laws. The payment
of bounties is still being considered as a method of control
in this continuing issue.

I do appreciate your taking the time to share your comments
with me.

With best regards.

Sincerely,

Mark O.gﬁatfield é
Unitengtates Senator

v f
i ,4 '
‘x ./

x /"

.\M-M~M/

 




sennrorz mFIRK O.- HRTFIELD (R OREGOI'I)

Ha tfield Backgrounder

Washington. D.C. QOSIO

Date: November, 1981 No. 204

HIGH INTEREST RATES:

Is THE CURE WORSE THAN THE DISEASE?

In the summer of 1979 a hyper-inflation psychology grip-
ped the U.S. and the nation’s consumers were caught in
long gas lines on hot and muggy days as a result of the
total absence of a comprehensive energy policy. The dollar
was plunging to all-time lows, the price of gold began its
spectacular climb, the Carter years’ deficits were rapidly
approaching $200 billion and our European allies casti-
gated us for failing to get our economic house in order.
Perhaps the times are best remembered by President Car-
ter’s mysterious retreat to Camp David for two weeks and
his subsequent descent from the mountaintop to proclaim
the existence of a “national malaise".

As the failure of the President and the Congress to initiate
any effective anti— inflationary program became evident,

the Federal Reserve Board stepped into—the—vaemmxegaa—w .

nounce a dramatic shift' In monetary policy. Instead of con-
trolling the desirable level of interest rates, the Fed shifted
gears and focused upon reducing the growth of the money
supply.

In the fall of 1981 it is by no means clear whether the strict
reliance upon monetary policy is working. In fact, many

people wonder whether the Fed really knows what it is do- _

ing and very few understand what is going on in the credit
markets.

If the policy is successful in the long run, it may be a
hollow victory as few businesses may be around to cele—
brate the moment. It is my view that we have relied ex-
cessively upon monetary policy to fight inflation by delib—
erately inducing a recession in order to slow production
and lessen the demand for credit. This backgrounder dis-
cusses the policies of the Federal Reserve Board, the
causes behind high interest rates and some possible alter-
natives that could ease the pressure on interest rates.

WHAT CAUSES
HIGH INTEREST RATES?

 

Simply put, the interest rate is determined by the interac-
tion of the demand for credit (from business, individuals
and government) and the supply of money that exists from
savings. Additionally, “inflationary expectations” raise the
cost of money because a lender must be induced to give
up his money by a promise of a higher return. We are fin—
ding’ these expectations to be critical because the financial
community is nervous about financing new investments
due to the risk of more inflation and higher interest rates.

‘20? 224-3753

 

 

m: amounts:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

I9I7 I9I9 I930 I940 I946 I949 I960 I970 I975 I9g78 I979 I980 I98I
YEAR

 

History backs up the reservations of the financial com-

munity about the current AdmInIstratIon s attempt to re- ,

duce spending and lower inflation. We can recall easily
President Johnson’s frustration with inflation that resulted
from a ”guns and butter” budget that failed to raise taxes.
When-it was too late, a tax surcharge was imposed to no
avail. President Nixon's frustrations even led him to aban-
don his free market philosophy to impose wage and price
controls; President Ford gave us the toothless WIN pro-
gram and President Carter ignored inflation until it was too
late.

One can hardly blame the financial community for its lack
of optimism because the present program of large defense
increases and tax cuts clearly dwarf the budget reductions
recently approved.

Massive borrowing by consumers also pugs pressure on in-
terest rates. Total credit demand had increased Some
700% in the last 20 years compared to a 550% increase in

GNP. Business and consumer borrowing increased almost

twice as fast as government debt so the blame cannot be
placed solely on the hands of the government.

In short, high interest rates: reflect an attempt by in—
dividuals and government to live beyond their mean
resorting to borrowing instead of Increasing the produc' "
ty of the economy. We are taking from future generations”
in order to finance current consumption.

 

‘R‘W‘w ' -«\_ _

’"F‘Wn

I ~ 95%—

 




THE ROLE OF
THE FEDERAL RESERVE

In order to slow the growth of money, the federal Reserve
Board decided in October, 1979, to discourage borrowing
by strictly controlling the bank reserves that must be held
on (bans. Previous policy focused upon keeping the federal
funds rate (and, indirectly, the prime rate) within a
desirable range regardless of the overall growth in the
money supply. If the interest rate went too high, the Fed
would purchase government securities through its open
market operations and thereby increase the money supply
to relax the upward pressure on interest rates. Under the
Fed’s new procedures, an increase in interest rates is large—
ly ignored in order to closely monitor the growth of the
money supply.

Financing the Treasury’s debt by the Fed is viewed as a

“quick fix" that may work to bring interest rates down .

temporarily but will fuel inflationary expectations and bring
even higher interest rates in the long run. Whenever the
money supply has grown much faster than the real output
of the economy then inflation results. There can be no
argument that our long-term policy should focus upon
slowing the growth of the money supply.

In essence, the policy of the Fed is to reduce the demand
for credit by making it expensive to borrow. Its tools in-
clude the raising of the discount rate (which is the rate that
members banks borrow from the Fed), increasing the
reserve requirements that banks must hold on loans, and
open market operations where the Fed either buys or sells
U.S. securities in order to expand or contract the money

supply.

CRITICISMS oF THE FED

An 88L executive recently compared the Fed’s policies to
the story of an economist who drowned while crossing a
river. On the average the river was only three feet deep —-
the problem was the ten- foot hole in the middle of the
r1ver. . ‘ -

The Congress and even the Secretary of the Treasury have
criticized the Fed as well for undershooting its targets. The
House Banking Committee recently issued a report which

states that M1B, (cash and _checking accounts) is $13 -

billion below its target for 1981. Thus, the overly stringent
policy could cost $80 billion in output for the economy.

 

 

Monetary Aggregates: Target Ranges and Actual Levels
m MtB Adjusted

 

 

 

 

'- . ‘ -(
«o '7'
. [WI
‘5 " mix/I, 35".”. -
° Mxxsxxzw-
3 m '" %/’////////JJ’ '-
. //////////AU’
E - MHII/l/IM _,
//
420 — W M 1m Miami _—
f t
1 1 l 1 1 1 1 1 l 1 1 l 1 1
w 1 1 u 111 IV
mo mt

 

 

Other criticisms include: '

1) Lack of Consistency

. .Iﬂ‘ln early 1980 the basic money supply declined by 5%, but
in the last half of the year it increased at 16% rate. The

changes in interest rates broke all previous records and
destroyed business confidence.

2) Why is it anti-inflationary to force idleness,
unemployment, and an increase in the price of
ezfmedit that must be further passed on as higher
prices?

High interest rates have caused thousands of bankruptcies
and increased the unemployment rates. This in turn dimin-
ished federal revenues, swells expenditures for food

 

stamps, unemployment benefits and other social safety
net programs. The much-heralded balanced budget of
1980 collapsed in the wake of the recession and the deﬁcit
forced the government to borrow millions more from pri-
vate individuals. Higher interest rates forced the U.S. to
spend $10 billion more to finance its own debt.

 

A 1% increase in unemploy-
ment increases the deficit by.
$27 billion and a 3% dr0p in
the prime rate would save us
14.5 billion in 1982.

 

 

 

Thus, the economy and federal budget are so interrelated
that it becomes very difficult to target effective remedies.
A 1% increase in unemployment lowers federal revenues
by $12 billion and increases the deficit by $27 billion. A 1%,
increase in interest rates increases the national debt by
$3.5 billion, and a 1% increase in the Consumers’ Price In-
dex (which includes mortgage rates) results in $2 billion
more in cost—of-living adjustments to retirees and other
federal beneficiaries.

ln-the world of economic theory, 'high interest ratesare’ a
self-correcting mechanism whereby production slows, de-
mand drops, and prices adjust downward. H0wever, in to-
day’s semi-welfare state, federal payments continue and
even increase,4wage demands of labor fail'to abate, and
troubled corporations refuse to lower the price of their pro-
ducts.

3) Why is it inflationary -- and bad -- when the price
of business products 90 up but not inflationary'
when interest rates go up? ' -

'lt only makes sense if you look at the world through

”monetarist glasses.” If there is too much demand for

. credit from all sources then its price must increase. Any'

artificial increase in the supply of money (printing money
or monetizing the debt) will be inflationary. ,

4) The Fed's policies contradict President Reagan's
goals.

President Reagan campaigned against the politics of
despair while promising economic growth, lower taxes,
lower interest rates and low unemployment. The Pres—
ident’s budget assumes that interest rates will fall well
below 10% and, therefore, his budget deficits could be
understated by $45 billion.

Herbert Stein, former Chairman of President Nixon’s
Economic Council, states that there is an inherent con-
tradiction in the Reagan program. Its prescription of tight
moneycontradicts its tax cut goals by threatening con-
tinued high unemployment and lower— than—expected
growth. The error-is in assuming that unprecedented
growth, low intereSt rates, low unemployment, tight
money, huge tax cuts and massive defense increases can
be simultaneously achieved. '

5) The Fed is unaccountable to anyone -- it _ is
undemocratic, autocratic, and inconsistent wrth
a free economy.

The Federal Reserve Act of 1914 created an independent
banking system that was purposely separated from the PO'
litical branches of government. The terms of the Federal
‘ Reserve Board of Governors were staggered in order to In-
sulate the President’s appointments powers from his pollt-

ical needs to inflate the economy temporarily to win an
election. '

 




In spite of this laudable “goal, someicriticize the Fed’s
owers as overly expansrve In that they can indirectly
manipulate the price of credit. Eugene Loeble, former
chairman of the Czechoslovakia Central' Bank, has stated
that the US gives more power over the price of credit to
the Fed than the Politburo has in communist countries.
Professor Lester Thurow has written that “we have grown
accustomed to leaving monetary matters to the financiers.
Just as war is too important to leave to generals, monetary
policy is too important to leave to the bankers.”

Professor Dudley Johnson of the University of Wash-
ington School of Business recently endorsed a radical
restructuring of the Fedto give the President more control
over the implementation of his economic policy. As the na—
tion's chief executive officer, Professor Johnson argues
that the President deserves an opportunity to fully im-
plement his program and the voter deserves to have the
nation’s economic policy set by accountable officials
rather than an insulated elite in the financial community.

I have been frustrated as well with the ability of the Fed to
undermine the efforts of Congress and the President to cut
spending, reduce taxes and encourage growth. As Pro-
‘fessor Thurow says, “the Fed can undo the effect of any
tax cut the President proposes.” '

 

EFFECT OF FEDERAL DEFICITS

The Congress recently enacted a one-trillion dollar national
debt ceiling that will finance national defense increases,
social security checks and large tax cuts. While it is true
that as a percentage of GNP our national debt is declining,
disturbing facts about the nation’s debt need to be men-
ﬁoned. ' ‘

In 1929 the total debt Was $16.9 billion and it grew rapidly
in the 1940’s in order to finance WWII. However, its
fastest growth, occurred "in the 1970’s. T raditionally, we
have been told that we only owe this debt to ourselves.

However, the ownership of the debt has changed drama— ‘

tically over the last 40 years. Government agencies’ share
and the Federal Reserve holdings have sharply increased

...l\ml Who Owns
the [lam } ‘ ’

(as of May~31, $1981)

 

 

Government accounts,
trust funds

20.4%
14.4%

 

 

Individuals

M

Foreign individuals,

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

. Institutions 14.4%
Federal '
Reserve banks 12.2%
Commercial ' ~ 7
banks e ‘ . 10.8%
State, local. ' .
4 Mments ~_ 8.3%
nCorporations , a 21%
InsuranCe
companies * 11%

 

 

Mutual savin 5
_banks 9 '

Other -
ivestors

0.691;
15.0%

 

 

 

 

 

as the Fed financed our national debt. Another troubling
fact shows that foreigners held $115 billion of the national
debt as of 1978, constituting 15% of the total debt, as op-
posed to a .4% ownership in 1939.

The average maturity of the national debt has dropped
from 8.9 years in 1949 to 2.9 years in 1977. This means that
the Treasury must refinance more than $375 billion of debt
each year. This massive intervention by the federal gov-

‘ ernment is destabilizing and soaked up nearly 50% of

available private capital in 1980 via Treasury borrowing,

.direct and guaranteed federal loans and tax—exempt

bonds. If present trends continue the federal government
wrlﬁl substantially allocate where all available capital is
gorng.

HOW IS-THE DEFICIT FINANCED?

Those special interest groups which advocate against
budget cuts often argue that deficits have little impact on
inflation. There 'is some truth to the statement, but two
further questions need to be raised. ,

1) Is the Treasury selling securities to private investors? If
so, private capital is being allocated to public sector
spending and less money will be available for individual
Investment. The government will pay premium rates for
the money, thereby causing higher interest rates and the
“crowding Out" of private investment. However, the
money supply can remain constant with no significant
increase in the inflation rate.

 

The U.S. must re—finanCe over
[$375 billion a year _of existing“
debt —— 'not including the $80
billion of, new debt. ’

 

 

 

2) ~13" the Fed buying’ the ‘debt fromTreasury? If so,
Treasury is credited with additional buying power. Al-
though the printing of money to finance the debt ended in

‘ the'Civil War, the sale of securities tothe Fed achieves the

same thing. When the Fed wants to maintain a tight mone-
tary policy, it cannot achieve its goals if it buys the debt. If

~ the Fed refuses to finance the debt, highter interest rates

Will then occur as government competes with the private
sector‘to attract investors.

The Fed, however, has consistently taken the easy _way
out by aiding the Treasury in financing its debt. In the last
three decades, 26 budgets have been in the red with the
Fed funding an average of 35% of the debt.

SOLUTIONS

1) Reduction in the Growth of Government Spen-
. ding. '

I voted for the budget cuts of President Reagan,

which will cut the growth in spending from 16% to 8% by

‘reducing outlays by $141 billion over the next four years. It

is also significant to note that entitlements take over 3/ 4 of
the budget. Of the projected $83 billion growth in total
spending in 1982, 48% is attributed to cost-of—Iiving ad-
justments.

2. Defense Spending Pr0posals Must Be Modified.

The Administration proposes to spend $1.46 trillion
dollars for defense over the next five years, increasing the
annual expenditure from $142 billion in 1980 to $367 billion
in 1986. Even after adjusting for inflation the increase is
three times what we spent for the Vietnam War build—up.
The 1982 military budget will equal what the entire federal
budget spent in 1970.

In essence, the defense proposals undo what we have
painfully attempted to do in cutting expenditures
elsewhere. They jeopardize the badly-needed tax cuts, and
may cause high interest rates to continue.

 




3. Federal Credit Activities Must Be Carefully

Reviewed.

New federal commitments for direct loans to on-
budget and off-budget entities, as well as guaranteed
loans exceeded $160 billion in 1981. Federal government
holdings in direct and guaranteed loans increased from
$200 billion in 1970 to $600 billion in 1980. President
Reagan has proposed a $21 billion reduction in 1982 loans
that will affect students, housing, small businesses, rural
development, and a host of other specific programs.

I support the efforts to bring credit programs into the
annual budgeting process in order to subject the issuance
of federal loans to the same scrutiny that direct expen-
ditures currently undergo.

4. Tax Incentives for Savers.
Inflation has pushed tax payers into higher tax
brackets and has subjected the median-income taxpayer to

tax rates designed for the rich. Consequently, the US. has

the lowest savings rate in the industrialized countries. The
US. rate is 5.6%, compared to 20% in Japan, 15% in
Great Britain and 14.5% in West Germany.

5. Overhaul of Tax Code that Rewards Consump-
tion and Penalizes Saving.

The current maze of ‘tax rules encourages debt and

taxes harshly income on investments. The government has
also encouraged lower down payments and longer mort-
gages. In 1953, the average buyer put 20% down on a 20-
year mortgage at 4.5% with an interest expense of $337 in
the first year. In 1980, the average buyer put 5% down on
a 30-year mortgage and paid $7,483 in interest payments in
that first year. Thus, we have seen a 22—fold increase in
mortgage interest payments in contrast to a 4 1/2-fold in-
crease in the median income. American consumers are
awash with charge accounts, second mortgages and a
total increase in debt that is rising 50% faster than con-
sumer income.
A comprehensive approach to the problem is my Simpli-
fOrm legislation which eliminates all deductions and credits
and substitutes low rates of taxation; Such a tax code
wOuld go a long way in addressing the current bias to-
wards consumption and debt financing.

6. Consistent and Complementary Monetary

Policy.

Rather than Sharp 180-degree turns in monetary
policy, a consistent and predictable policy should be estab-
lished. Only then will inflationary expectations abate and
some order return to the credit market.

 

QICnifeh $fodez $enaie

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20510

2901.5-2LA GM

MS. CHRISTINE STEVENS
9.8. BOX 3719
GEDRGETQHN STATION
WASHINGTON: DC 20007

RETURN POSTAGE GUARANTEED

Do Not Forward
Address Correction requested
For duplication, return label

 




 

CONGRESS IONAL RECORD CLIPPINGS

1868 Columbia‘Road, N.w.

Washington, D.C .. 20009

Date: APR. .5 - 1971

C“

S 4524 , CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENA

best that is within our people to ﬁnd
solutions to such problems as the spread-
ing war in Indochina.

This is what I ho 7 e for in the coming

That the demons rators commit them-
selves to ending t '8 war not just with
Words but With re onsible political ac-

Whereas the number of wild horses in this
country has declined from nearly two million
in 1900 to approximately 17,000 at the present ,
time, and

Whereas the esthetic value of wild horses
on public lands is a public asset that requires
governmental protection; now, therefore,

Be it resolved by the people of the State of
Oregon

(1) The Congress of the United States and
the Secretary of the Interior are urged to
place wild horses under the protection of the

, . United States Government b th Great on
our Nation, W1th eason as well as emo- refuges on. other appropnatg mans 1 Of

tion; (2) A copy of this memorial shall be trans-
And that they ot be satisﬁed with a mitted to the Secretary of the Interior and
single day of diss nt, but rather return to each member of t e Oregon Congressional '
to their .commu ties and campuses to Delegation £1 .
mobilize the poli ical support for end-
ing American in olvement in the war, ,1...—
political support ' waiting there to be f
expressed. "
We must work or elfective legislation
requiring total Wihdrawal of our troops
by the end of this . ear.
And this can br done, not in a day of

protest, but in . aking constant and ; CONGRESSIONAL RECORD CLIPPINGS
persistent eﬁorts all over the country,

to change our Inuchina policies. , 5 1868 Columbla Road, N.W.
Mr. President, welcome these expres- j ‘ Washington, D.C. 20009
sions of concer for the opportunities 1 . 5.»,
they offer for cit zen participation in the Date: M 2 1 197‘”? ,
decisions of our t overnment. § .. _
I endorse an :3 support this meeting ‘ r '
on April 24 for t represents a commit-
ment to an eff ct1 e, impassioned, and
yet pe sat against the war.
And I6 _ rge 11 0e who participate to

 

 

FORESSIONAL ‘ 0RD -—S N

carr the z. A. ~ 5%.:
y - - - thorize funds f rtic

of d
days the International velopment pAsgocm‘

'7“ ”K...

\

At the request of Mr. Humib the‘:
Senator from Washington 1 1.111121323101119
was added as a cosponsor‘ S 2774,

FOR WILD HORSESE

Mr. HATFIELD. Mr. President, mblic .
concern is steadily increasing for the re— ,
maining free—roaming horses and burros i
in this country, and alarmed citizens in 1‘
Oregon have taken their cause to the 1

State legislature. In turn, a joint me-
morial has been introduced in the Oregon
legislature, memorializing Congress and

the Secretary of the Interior to place wild 1
horses under the protection of the US j
Government by the creation of refuges. ,
It is this very concept which is embodied
in S. 1116 sponsored by the Senator from ‘
'Washington (Mr. JACKSON) and myself. .
Hence, it can be seen that support for .

’ this type of legislation is broad-based,

and I again urge Congress to pass S. 1116 ‘

quickly.

I ask unanimous consent that Oregon
Senate Joint Memorial 6 be printed in
the RECORD.

There being no objection, the memorial
was ordered to be printed in the RECORD,
as follows:

SENATE JOINT MEMORIAL 6
. (To the Honorable Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of Amer-

ioa, in Congress assembled, and the Honor-4

able‘Secretary of the Interior: )

We, your memorialists, the Fifty-sixth
Legislative Assembly of the State of Oregon,
in legislative session assembled, meet respect-
fully represent as follows:

Whereas the wild horse is an animal sym-
bolic of a colorful and historic chapter in the
story of the West, and

 

rovme assistance in improVin zoos and
Equariums by creatWZo-

ological and Aquarium Board and for
other purposes.

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD CLIPPINGS

1868 Columbia Road, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20009'

Date DEC 1 9 1973

“1...--- .. isiuilulllsg $103.23.?“ .-.-.__
MW {77PM ﬁt , ,
At the requests of Mr. “1,,‘ATFIELD the
Senator from Maryland (Mr. BEALL) was
added as a cosponsor of S. 2774, to pro-
vide assistance in im ro ~ and
laqyauums by c1eating a National Zoo-
logical and Aquanum Board.

 

 

 




GRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE

(3) Subsection (c) restates, without
change except for a different expiration date
three years subsequent to that stated in
the existing provision that no payments may
be made with respect to any enlistment or
extension of enlistment made after June 30,
1977.

Section 3 preserves the present authority,
now contained in current 37 U.S.C. 308(a)
and (d) (reenlistment bonus), to pay the
reenlistment» bonus authorized in those sub-
sections to those members who were on ac-
tive duty on the date of enactment of the
bill, but who are not entitled to a reenlist-
ment bonus under amended 37 U.S.C. 308, as
restated by section 2(2) of the bill. If a
member is eligible for both the bonus under
current 37 U.S.C. 308(a) and (d), and the
bonus authorized by amended 37 U.S.C. 308
as restated by section 2(2) of the bill, he
may elect to receive either one of those re-
enlistment bonuses. However, a member’s
eligibility under 37 U.S.C. 308(a) and (d), as
it existed on the day before the effective date
of this Act, terminates when he has re-
ceived a total of $2,000 in reenlistment bonus
payments, received from either section 308
(a) or (d) of that title as it existed on the
day before the effective date of this Act, or
from section 308 of that title as amended by
this Act. or from a combination of both.

Section 4 makes the bill effective January
1. 1974..

By Mr. HATFIELD:

S. 2774. A bill to provide assistance in
improving zoos and aquariums by cre-
ating a National Zoological and
Aquarium Board, and for other purposes.
Referred to the Committee on Rules and

Administration.

Mr. HATFIELD. Mr. President, in

June, I introduced S. 2042 which would
have provided badly needed aid to the
zoos and aquariums across the country.
Since that time, the situation has not
improved for these institutions which
may be the only contact of many citizens
with the animal kingdom, and the last

refuge for many of our endangered
species.

Since the introduction of that bill, I
have received a favorable response from
many representatives of zoos, aquariums,
and zoological organizations, and from
private citizens. These letters add further
evidence to the fact that many zoos and
aquariums desperately need ﬁnancial as-
sistance if they are to upgrade poor con-
ditions, maintain adequate standards of
welfare for the animals, and develop the
potential of zoos and aquariums as ed-
ucational and esthetic resources.

At the same time, there were many
suggestions ’ as to how the legislation
could best serve the needs of the zoos
and aquariums in their attainment of
these objectives. The bill I introduce to-
day is a result of these suggestions, as
well as work with Congressman WILLIAM
WHITEHURST who is carrying the legis-
lative responsibility for the bill in the
House.

The National Zoo and Aquarium As-
sistance Act of 1973 establishes a 17—
member board which is authorized to
provide badly needed assistance through
direct project grants and loan guaran-
tees to assist in the attainment and
maintenance of the accreditation pro-
gram which is authorized to be estab-
lished by the board. The board will also
sponsor pilot projects which will serve
as models for high national standards,
as well as forming the cornerstone for

f‘

h-

December .4, 19

development in zoos and aquariums who
receive such pilot project grants.

It is my belief that this bill will best
meet the needs of poor and dilapidated
zoos and aquariums, while at the same
time providing beneﬁts to institutions
which show initiative to modernize and
improve.

Also, the matching provisions of the
bill will encourage greater local partici-
pation.

Mr. President, I ask unanimous con-
sent that the text of my bill be printed
at this point in the RECORD.

There being no objection, the bill was
ordered to be printed in the RECORD, as
follows:

/VL)
1.9

S. 2774

Be it enacted by the Senate and House
of Representatives of the United States of
America in Congress assembled, That there is
created as an independent agency in the ex-
ecutive branch the National Zoological and
Aquarium Board (hereinafter in this Act
referred to as the “Board”) .

SEC. 2. (a) The Board shall consist of—

(1) the Director of the National Zoological
Park;

(2) the Comptroller General of the United
States; and

(3) ﬁfteen individuals to be appointed by
the President, by and with the advice and
consent of the Senate, as follows—

(A) two ofﬁcers or employees from the
Agricultural Research Service of the Depart—
ment of Agriculture;

(B) one ofﬁcer or employee from the De-
partment of State;

(G) one officer or employee from the Na-
tional Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra-

4 tion of the Department of Commerce;

(D) one ofﬁcer or employee of the Bureau
of Sport Fisheries and Wildlife of the De-
partment of the Interior;

(E) two individuals from among repre-
sentatives of national humane associations;

(F) four individuals from among directors
of zoos;

(G) two individuals from among directors
of aquariums;

(H) one ofﬁcial representative of the
American Association of Zoological Parks and
Aquariums;

(I) one oﬁioial representative of the Ameri-
can Association of Zoo Veterinarians.

(b) Each individual appointed to the
Board under paragraph (3) of subsection (a)
shall serve not more than two terms of six
years each, except that the ﬁfteen individuals
ﬁrst appointed shall be divided into three
classes of ﬁve individuals each and serve as
follows:

(1) The members of the ﬁrst class shall
serve for a term of two years. and may be
reappointed for one additional term of six
years.

(2) The members of the second class shall
serve for a term of four years, and may be
reappointed for one additional term of six
years.

(3) The members of the third class shall
serve for a term of six years, and may be
reappointed for one additional term of six
years.

(0) Members of the Board shall receive no
compensation for their services but shall be
entitled to reimbursement in accordance
with section 5703 of title 5, United States
Code, for travel and other expenses incurred
by them in the performance of their func-
tiOns under this Act.

((1) The Board is authorized to appoint an
Executive Director who shall receive com—
pensation at the rate provided for level IV of
the Executive Schedule under section 5315
of title 5 of the United States Code and who
shall perform such duties as the Board may
prescribe.

(e) The Board is authorized, subject to

 




’1’ .597 m

December 4, 1.973 .. CO

the civil service laws and regulations, to ap-
point and ﬁx the compensation of such addi-
tional personnel as may be necessary to
carry out the provisions of this Act.

SEC. 3. (a) The Board. shall establish, and
from time to time revise, standards for the ,
national accreditation of zoo-s (including
roadside parks where animals-are displayed
in their natural habitat) and aquariums in
the several States and theDistrict of Colum-
bia.

(b) The Board is authorized to provide
technical assistance in the form of the serv~
ices of experts employed by the Board to
assist any zOo or aquarium in complying
with the standards for accreditation under
this section.

SEC. 4. (a) The Board. is authorized to
make grants of, funds to nonproﬁt organiza--
tions to provide for—-

(1) the training of professional and para-1
‘ professional staff of zoos and aquariums to
, meet the accreditation standards established
under this Act; and

(2) humane research. into methods to im—
prove the welfare ‘ of animals at zoos— and
aquariums, and into methods to meet the
accreditation standards established under
this Act. .

No grant under this subsection shall. exceed
75 percent of the aggregate cost of. the train-
ing or research, as the case may be, for
which the grant is made. '

(b) the Board is authorized to make grants

of funds to any nonprofit zoo or aquarium,

. or both for projects to assist in the attain-
ment oz" maintenance of the accreditation

standards established under this Act. No
grant under this subsection shall exceed 50
per centum of the aggregate cost, as deter-
mined by the Board, of the project for which
the grant is made.

(c) The Board is authorized to make
grants of funds to any nonproﬁt zoo or
aquarium, or both, and to any nonproﬁt
agency for the purpose of enabling such zoo,
aquarium, or agency to establish pilot proj-
ects to serve as models forvzoos or aquar-
iums, or both. Such pilot projects shall meet
the accreditation. standards established
under this Act. Grants under this subsection
may be up to 10-0 per centum of the aggre—
gate cost of the pilot project for which the
grant is made.

SEC. 5. The Board is authoriZed to guar-
antee loans, upon such terms and, conditions
as it shall prescribe. to. any zoo or aquarium,
or both (for projects which assist in the
attainment or maintenance of the accredita-
tion standards established under this Act).
The aggregate value of. loans guaranteed
under this section. shall. not exceed 85

 




