13022

HUMANE TREATMENT OF ANIMALS
USED IN EXPERIMENTATION

Mrs. NEUBERGER. Mr. President,
the Senator from Pennsylvania (Mr.
CLARK] and I are joint sponsors of Sen-
ate bill 533, known as the bill for hu-
mane treatment of animals used in ex-
perimentation.

Recent editorials published in maga-
zines and other periodicals have focused
attention on the fact that the bill is
quietly resting in one of the Senate’s
committees.

I, myself, have been the recipient of
a great deal of mail on the subject of
humane treatment of laboratory ani-
mals. Not all of that mail has been in
support of my position; in fact, some
of the negative mail I have received has
come from persons in the scientiﬁc world
whom I respect very highly.

But in nearly every case I have noted
that they obviously have not read the
bill. I am sure that the Senator from
Pennsylvania [Mr. CLARK] and sponsors
of similar proposed legislation in the
House, including myself, do not feel that
we wish to deter the advancement of
medical science by preventing medical
science from experimenting on animals.
But because a great deal of progress is
being made in that ﬁeld all the time, our
attention has been called to the need for
some rules and guidelines for the han—
dling of the animals. A person whom I
respect highly and who has taken issue
with me in my support of the measure
admits that there is a need for some
kind of control. I quote part of his let-
ter:

I think what we must keep clearly in mind
is a distinction between the humane care
of animals, and the regulatory control of
scientiﬁc experiments which are spelled out
in these bills. Most responsible investigators
will welcome inspection procedures which
insure adequate housing, the use of trained
animal-care personnel and the availability

of proper facilities for the humane care of
the animals.

That is what the sponsors of the bill
hope will be accomplished by our pro-
posal.

One of the prominent doctors of the
world is Dr. Albert Schweitzer, a French-
man who 50 years ago went to what was
literally then deepest and darkest Africa.
He became a medical technician, a doc-
tor, and a lover of the people of West
Equatorial Africa. He has devoted his
life to working with those people.
Therefore, it was a great delight for me
to receive a letter from Dr. Schweitzer
when he heard—not from me—of the
proposed legislation in the Senate. The
letter is written in German, and since I
do not read German—and I doubt if
many Senators do———I had the letter
translated. I should like to read the
translation at this time:

MY DEAR SENATOR: As you feel it right for
me to give my support to the law for com-
passion toward laboratory animals, I do so
gladly. The ethic of reverence for life
obliges us to be watchful always to treat
animals with compassion, and all the more
so when it concerns those creatures that
serve medical research. If you pass such a
law in the United States, it will have impor-
tant meaning for the world. The law will
then gain recognition in other nations, too.

“In the beginning was the deed” is an Old
saying. I am happy that you and the animal
welfare institute are taking the initiative.

Faithfully yours,
ALBERT SCHV‘VEITZER.

fact that Dr.

I emphasize the
Schweitzer refers to concern for crea-

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD -- SENATE

tures that serve medical research, which
is indicative of the fact that neither he
nor the supporters of the bill are opposed
to the use of animals in medical research.

Mr. CLARK. Mr. President, will the
Senator yield?

Mrs. NEUBERGER. I am glad to yield
to the Senator from Pennsylvania.

Mr. CLARK. I should like to empha-
size what seems to me to be the great
importance-of having Albert Schweitzer,
one of the great philosophers of the
world, as well as one of the leading doc-
tors in the world, with a career in help—
ing to cure people of illness, support the
measure which I was happy to sponsor
and of which my good friend from Ore—
gon is the principal cosponsor.

I hope that the Senator will have
printed in the RECORD the letter from Dr.
Schweitzer which she has just read, so
that we can obtain reprints and have
them widely distributed. If the Senator
does not object, I ask unanimous consent
to have printed at this point in the
RECORD the letter from Dr. Albert
Schweitzer which the Senator from Ore—
gon [ Mrs. NEUBERGER] has read.

There being no objection, the letter
was ordered to be printed in the RECORD,
as follows: ‘ ‘

LAMBAREN, GABON,
West Equatorial Africa, May 6, 1963.
Senator MAURINE NEUBERGER.

MY DEAR SENATOR: As you feel it right for
me to give my support to the law for com-
passion toward laboratory animals, I do so
gladly. The ethic Of Reverence for Life
obliges us to be watchful always to treat
animals with compassion, and all the more
so when it concerns those creatures that
serve medical research. If you pass such a
law in the United States, it will have impor-
tant meaning for the world. The law will
then gain recognition in other nations, too.

“In the beginning was the deed” is an old
saying. I am happy that you and the Animal
Welfare Institute are taking the initiative.

Faithfully yours,
ALBERT SCHWEI'I‘ZER.

Mr. CLARK. I ask my friend, the
Senator from Oregon, how her mail has
been running on the bill?

Mrs. NEUBERGER. My mail has
been running 5 to 1 in support of the bill
which the Senator and I have cospon-
sored. Even the negative mail in most
cases admits that there is reason for the
introduction of some kind of control
measure, though the writers of such let-
ters do not go the entire way with the
bill. Responsible workers in research
laboratories admit that there are abuses
which need to be looked into.

Mr. CLARK. Mr. President, will the
Senator yield further?

Mrs. NEUBERGER.
yield.

Mr. CLARK. I would like to advise
Senators that since the ﬁrst of this year,
and through July 12, I received 1,070
letters supporting S. 533, and only 345
letters in opposition, the opposition com-
ing, I regret to state, largely from doc-
tors, medical students, and scientists.

One could tell from reading their let-
ters that the writers had not read the
bill. One could tell how terribly misin-
formed they were as to what the bill
contains. I am conﬁdent that if those
highly intelligent people had not been
so misinformed, they would certainly
have written very different kinds of
letters.

I have received 412 letters in support
of, and 362 letters in opposition to a bill
introduced in the House of Representa-
tives by Representative RANDALL, HR.

I am glad to

July 31

4856. In my opinion the Randall bill is
not as good a bill, from the point of View
either of orderly administration or of the
proper protection of animals from un-
necessary cruelty, as the bill the Senator
from Oregon [Mrs. NEUBERGER] and I
are supporting. Therefore, some of the
letters against the Randall bill come
from proponents of our bill.

I ask my friend, the Senator from
Oregon, if she would briefly outline, so
readers of the CONGRESSIONAL RECORD will
get the truth, what our bill would do.

Mrs. NEUBERGER. I am glad to com-
ply by summarizing what is stated in
the introduction to the bill. It is pro—
posed to provide for the humane treat-
ment of vertebrate animals used in the
experiments and tests by recipients of
grants from the United States, and by
agencies and instrumentalities of the
US. Government, and for other pur-
poses. One of the most important
provisions of our bill is that it would re-
quire the Secretary of Health, Educa-
tion, and Welfare to issue certiﬁcates of
registration to persons applying for
licenses to work on animals, and that
they show that they have proper facili-
ties and personnel, such as proper ken-
nels and treatment for the animals; that
they have some experience that gives
them the equipment to comply with the
requirements of the act; and that the
animals shall receive adequate food and

water, and shall not be caused to suifer
unnecessary or avoidable pain.

The point that those who criticize the
bill fail to note is that we have a pro-
vision that the animals used in any ex-
periment which would result in pain
shall be anesthetized so as to prevent
the animal feeling the pain during and
after the experiment, except to the ex-
tent that the use of anesthetics would
frustrate the object of the experiment.
Throughout the bill there are a number
of safeguards to indicate that the spon-
sors of the proposed legislation are en-
couraging experimentation that would
be of beneﬁt to mankind.

The other point that worries some of
our detractors is that they seem to think
a great many uninformed, do-gooder
sort of laymen will come marching
through the laboratories and attempt to
criticize and expose the inhumane
treatment of animals.

The bill provides trim: a scientific au-
thority or board shah detenmis: the
facts and make reports to the Secretary.
An annual report would be required to
outline the type of experiment, and to
receive approval, but I do not see why
there need to be much worry about need-
less reporting and inspection under the
terms of the bill. Many laboratsmes and
research centers with which I am
familiar would not have a qualm in the
world, because they are caring for the
animals and conducting their experi-
ments according to the very best we
would expect of them.

Mr. CLARK, Mr. President, will the
Senator yield further?

Mrs. NEUBERGER.
yield.

Mr. CLARK. Is it not a fact that the
bill is modeled on legislation which has
been in effect in Great Britain ever since
1876?

Mrs. NEUBERGER. That is true.

Mr. CLARK. Is it not true that that
legislation, so far as one can tell, not only
has been accepted by the general public
in Great Britain as salutary, but also has
received no serious condemnation by the

I am glad to

 




 

1963

medical profession of Great Britain.

Mrs. NEUBERGER. That is quite cor-
rect.

Mr, CLARK. I ask my friend whether
she does not agree with me that we
ought to press very strongly for prompt
hearings on the bill before the Senate
Committee on Labor ‘and Public Welfare.

Mrs. NEUBERGER. I think that is
where the points on which the Senator
and I are commenting today should be
properly presented.

Again, one of my detractors, who is a
close friend, a man I admire a great deal,
has indicated that he is aware that there
is some need for some legislation, because
he says, in his letter:

You could introduce legislation to improve
the facilities for laboratory animal care.
These urgent needs have been outlined by
Dr. Hiram Essex, emeritus professor of
physiology at the Mayo Foundation, who
heads the group of distinguished scientists
making up the National Society for Medical
Research.

This doctor and other doctors who
recognize the need for some legislation
suggest that these measures be included:

1. Research in animal husbandry.

2. Training of animal care technicians.

3. Building of better animal care facilities.

4. Communication of the latest informa-
tion about animal care methods, and so forth.

I think this bears out the contention
that there is a real need for legislation.

Mr. CLARK. I agree. There is one
point I should like to clarify. Some of
my mail takes the quite erroneous posi-
tion that this is a bill sponsored by anti-
vivesectionists. The antivivesectionists
oppose the bill, do they not?

Mrs, NEUBERGER. That is correct,
because they think it would encourage
research on animals by providing good
facilities for them.

Mr. CLARK. Is it not clear also that
the bill contemplates a continuation of
scientiﬁc experiments on animals, in the
interest of improving the ﬁndings of
science and improving the medical pro-
fession, and that the Senator from Ore-
gon and I and everyone else behind the
bill knows that we must continue to con-
duct experiments on animals in the in-
terest of science?

Mrs. NEUBERGER. That is correct.
The Senator and I support appropria-
tions for the National Institutes of
Health, which make grants to primate
centers and laboratories for research on
animals. The Senator and I and our
colleagues apprOve that sort of research.

Mr. CLARK. The Senator is quite
correct. All we are trying to do is to
see that, in the course of conducting the
necessary experiments, unnecessary
cruelty will not be imposed on helpless
creatures, but that instead, if a painful
operation is necessary, the animals will
be anaesthetized; and, if, after the op-
eration, they are in suffering and pain
and cannot recover, that they will be
painlessly killed.

In general, we wish to give to the
animals of our country who unwittingly
and unwillingly, to be sure, are making
such a great contribution to scientiﬁc
development, the kind of decent treat-
ment we would unhesitatingly give to our
own cats and our own dogs.

Mrs. NEUBERGER. I quote once
more from my friend who has written
me such a wonderful letter on this sub-
ject, because he makes a point which I
think is of interest, which we should
consider. He says:

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE

The only scientists who are aﬂected by
this legislation are the recipients of Govern-
ment grants and are the men in the large
research institutes and universities who are
doing the ﬁnest work, with the best equip-
ment and facilities. These are the people
who use the most humane techniques. The
incompetent or careless worker with poor
facilities would not be affected at all.

If that is true, I should like to see the
bill go further, so that all would be li-
censed. All through the letters it is ad-
mitted by the opponents that there are
places where such abuses are being con-
tinued. 'The scientists who conduct the
proper kinds of laboratories really be-
moan the others. It seems to me that
if we could have appropriate regulation,
it would be a guideline to which all could
subscribe.

Mr. CLARK. As the Senator well
knowns, Mr. Cleveland Amory, a noted
author who has written many ﬁne books,
has taken up the torch and is a strong
supporter of the bill. In the current is-

sue of the Saturday Evening Post Mr.
Amory has an article entitled “Science
Is Needlessly Cruel to Animals.” I wish
to read a couple of paragraphs from that
article in order to emphasize what the
Senator from Oregon has said:

In an experiment at Creighton University,
for example, researchers starved dogs to
death. Some took 65 days to die. It was
later found that researchers at the same in-
stitution had performed exactly the same ex-
periment 3 years earlier.

Presumably there had been extracted
from the earlier experiment all the sci-
entiﬁc value, if any, which could come
from starving dogs to death.

At Harvard University—

I say this with shame, being a grad-
uate of Harvard myself-—

At Harvard University, scientists
forced dogs to inhale flame and then did
not kill them until 3 to 5 days afterward.
In Dallas a humane-society worker dis-
covered that high—schoolers were per-
forming “survival surgery” on live dogs.

But the incident that stirred up real
nationwide indignation occurred 1
cold day last March in Gainesville, Va.,
not far from Washington. A chance vis-
itor to a farm there discovered scores of
dogs in an unheated barn, dead animals
lying among the live ones. Many of the
latter seemed to be starving. Outside the
barn the bodies of hundreds of dogs and
cats were found heaped and half-buried
in bulldozed trenches.

Investigators learned that the farm
had been leased to a ﬁrm that supplied
animals to laboratories. One of its cus-
tomers was the National Institutes of
Health, the vast research arm of the Fed-
eral Government. As the ofﬁcial Santa
Claus through which Congress gives al-
most a billion dollars a year to research
institutions—your tax money—the Na-
tional Institutes pays for enormous num-
bers of lab animals. The ﬁrm, quaintly
entitled Zoologicals Worldwide, Inc., had
made a shipment of animals to the Na-
tional Institutes just 10 days before the
discovery at Gainesville. When ques-
tioned, ofﬁcials of Zoologicals Worldwide
tried to explain away conditions at the
farm and said they were “trying to do
the right thing.”

This is only a small amount of the
voluminous evidence which could be
brought before a Senate committee,
once we get hearings on the bill and es-
tablish the need for the legislation.

Mr. President, I ask unanimous con-

 

13023

sent that a copy of Mr. Amory’s article,
entitled “Science Is Needlessly Cruel to
Animals,” appear at this point in my
remarks.

The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. KEN-
NEDY in the chair). Is there objection?

There being no objection, the article
was ordered to be printed in the RECORD,
as follows:

SCIENCE Is NEEDLESSLY CRUEL TO ANIMALS
(By Cleveland Amory)

The era of big science is new, but it has
already brought one hideous result—cruelty
to animals on a staggering scale. In the
laboratories of US. hospitals, medical
schools, and industries an estimated 300
million animals are currently in use in every
conceivable, and in many cases inconceiv-

able, way that can be devised by the mind
of man.

So shocking has the situation become that
calm and reasonable men, including many
Members of Congress, are up in arms. There
are, in fact, six bills on the subject before
Congress. And not one of them is an anti-
vivisectionist measure. On the contrary, the
bills’ supporters accept experimentation on
living creatures as essential to scientiﬁc
progress. What appalls these persons, and
what has begun to appall the whole Nation,
is the needless pain, the suffering, that serves
no scientiﬁc purpose.

In an experiment at Creighton University,
for example, researchers starved dogs to
death. Some took 65 days to die. :t was
later found that researchers at the same in-
stitution had performed exactly the same
experiment 3 years earlier. At Harvard Uni-
versity, scientists forced dogs to inhale ﬂame
and then did not kill them until 3 to 5 days
afterward. In Dallas a humane-society
worker discovered that high-schoolers were
performing survival surgery on live dogs.

But the incident that stirred up real
nationwide indignation occurred one cold
day last March in Gainesville, Va., not far
from Washington. A chance visitor to a
farm there discovered scores of dogs in an
unheated barn, dead animals lying among
the live ones. Many of the latter seemed to
be starving. Outside the barn the bodies of
hundreds of dogs and cats were found heaped
and half buried in bulldozed trenches.

Investigators learned that the farm had
been leased to a ﬁrm that supplied animals
to laboratories. One of its customers was
the National Institutes of Health, the vast
research arm of the Federal Government.
As the ofﬁcial Santa Claus through which
Congress gives almost a billion dollars a year
to research institutions—your tax money-—
the National Institutes pays for enormous
numbers of lab animals. The ﬁrm, quaintly

entitled Zoologicals Worldwide, Inc., had
made a shipment of animals to the National
Institutes just 10 days before the discovery
at Gainesville. When questioned, officials
of Zoologicals Worldwide tried to explain
away conditions at the farm and said they
were “trying to do the right thing.”

The day after the story broke in the Wash-
ington papers Representative THOMAS ASH-
LEY, of Ohio, a man with no previous con-
nection with humane work, introduced a.
bill calling for regulations to prevent cruelty
to animals used in research supported with
Federal funds. Almost immediately he re-
ceived thousands of letters of encourage-
ment from Americans across the country
who had read of the Gainesville incident and
were horriﬁed.

And suddenly there was renewed inter-
est in the hearings held last fall before a
House subcommittee. For documented tes-
timony at these hearings had shown even
before the Gainesville outrage that all was
not well behind the locked doors of this Na-
tion’s laboratories. Helen Jones, for exam-
ple, the small, slender executive director of
the National Catholic Society for Animal
Welfare, told the subcommittee that she had
visited many of this country’s most "re-
spected” laboratories. It would take “days
of testimony,” she declared, to describe “even
in the briefest form” the “atrocities that are
routine” in scientiﬁc research going on to-
day_ “Animals,” she said, “are truly beaten.




13024

starved, burned, frozen, blinded, drowned,
forced to swim and run until they die, ac-
celerated, deprived of sleep, irradiated,
skinned and subjected to other methods of
inducing pain and fear in inﬁnite variety.

“Often after undergoing burning, major
surgery, the crushing of muscles, the break-
ing of bones and other mutilating injuries,”
she continued, “they are given little or no
postexperimental care to relieve their pain
and terror. In most laboratories the ani-
mals are simply returned to a wire-bottom
cage to suffer unattended. It is not unusual
to ﬁnd animals housed in cramped cages,
without even a solid place on which to sit
or lie, for as long as 5 or even 10 years.”

Another witness was tall, aristocratic look-
ing Christine Stevens, head of the Animal
Welfare Institute. Herself the daughter of a
distinguished medical scientist, the late Dr.
Robert Gesell (brother of the famed Arnold
Gesell), Mrs. Stevens had visited hundreds
of laboratories all over the country, and she
described one such visit for the subcommit-
tee directly from her notes:

“All dogs caged, never released for exer-
cise. Three emaciated dogs curled up and
uninterested even though most of the dogs
were barking furiously. A gray poodle did
not respond in any way, but stood mute and
motionless in its cage. ‘ * * Many were too
sick to rise; some had had two operations.
One heart-surgical case was emaciated, had
a tremor and lacked one eye. Red ﬁesh ex-
truded from the socket. Apparently this did
not deter its use for heart surgery.”

Another witness was.author-and-scientist
Rachel Carson. And, in a letter to the sub-
committee, Dr. Charles Breed, a practicing
New York surgeon, took issue with his own
profession:

“Some animal research is, of course, most
essential. Experimental dog surgery by med-
fcal students is absolutely needless. Fur-
thermore, in many of our outstanding teach-
ing medical centers there are so many
surgeons who are doing experimental animal
surgery more to keep the surgeons busy than
to accomplish anything of value. This is a
disgrace. Repeating already proved sound
surgical procedures is only a form of sadism
on the surgeon’s part.”

Then Madeline Bemelmans, president of
the Society for Animal Protective Legisla-
tion in New York, and widow of author
Ludwig Bemelmans, placed on record a brief
portion of testimony by the eminent natu-
ralist, Sally Carrighar. Miss Carrighar
quoted a young doctor. “It is the prevalent
attitude in medical schools now,” he told
her, “that dogs don’t feel pain—that dogs do
not suffer.”

Perhaps the most gruesome testimony was
delivered by Alice Wagner, editor of the mag-
azine Popular Dogs. Mrs. Wagner put into
the record an article by a student of “one
of Chicago’s well-known and wealthy medi-
cal schools.” He described a great Dane that
had been‘kept in a small cage for 8 months.
(“He was a blood donor for a heart-lung
machine that required blood to prime it.”)
The dog was in “terribly poor condition,”
and was badly tormented by the caretaker
boys who believed it high amusement to
poke at the animal to make him lunge at
the door. The student also wrote of dogs
which grew extremely long toenails because
the dogs were never exercised. One dog had
been for 2 days actually fastened to the
wire-mesh ﬂoor of his cage by his long.
curved nails. “About 60 percent of them,”
the student’s report said, “had their nails
grown completely around and into the foot.
* * * A puppy there had ﬁnally chewed its
foot oﬁ‘ to free it from the wire. He died
2 days later, his leg swollen like a balloon.”

The student told of encountering an un-
trained technician who had been instructed
to inject compounds into the thigh veins of
a fully conscious dog at timed intervals. She
had only an idea where the veins lay, and she
often hit a nerve, causing great pain. The
dog visibly resisted crying out, until it could
no longer stand the pain.

The most damning indictment of the labo-
ratories was delivered by Fred Myers, whose
Humane Society of the United Statesis the
largest organization of its kind in the world.

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE

Credited with having almost single, handedly
rejuvenated the humane movement, Myers
has steered t away from the emotionalism
and fuzzy” tilities of the old antivivisec-
tionist societies. “My society,” he. told the
Congressmen, “is Opposed to cruelty of every
kind under every circumstance, but we rec-
ognize that animals are going to be used in
medical research fer as long as anyone can
foresee. We bring you no vivisection issue.
We submit to you only a question of
morality.”

Myers argued "that. besides curbing cru-
elty, the proposed legislation would actually
improve medical research and save large
sums of money now being poured into un-
necessary experimentation. He introduced
into the record the names of more than 200
nationally prominent citizens, including 24
university presidents and 46 professors of
medicine and surgery, all of whom had
signed a statement that the use of animals
in research and teaching should be brought
under control of law.

There was opposition testimony, too, of
course, most of it from spokesmen of the or-
ganizations the proposed legislation would
control. This opposition was rebutted by
Senators and Congressmen who have spon-
sored control bills. Senator JOSEPH CLARK,
of Pennsylvania, for example, put the mat-
ter on a business basis. “Just as responsible
investment bankers in time found that the
SEC is in their best interest,” he said, “so
responsible scientists would ﬁnd this legisla-
tion will beneﬁt them by controlling the
acts of the few irresponsible and thoughtless
individuals among them.” Senator MAURINE
NEUBERGER. recalled her conversation with a
member of the faculty of the Oregon Medical
School who had told her that no good re-
search can be carried on on an animal that
is not well treated.

“Well, then,” said Senator NEUBERGER, “you
surely would not mind legislation which just
guarantees that treatment.”

There is no way of knowing which, if any,
of the six bills now pending will pass.
Roughly, each provides for—

l. Unannounced inspection of laboratories
that use animals;

2. Licensing of all scientists desiring to
use live, vertebrate animals, the licenses
revocable for cruelty;

3. Painless killing of animals that still
are suffering after an experiment;

4. Humane care and housing, and

5. The requirement that student work, as
distinguished from research conducted by
qualiﬁed scientists, be painless.

Veteran observers on Capitol Hill are some-
what incredulously predicting that at long
last Congress will defy the powerful medical
lobby and vote legislation. If the Congress-
men do, it will be in large part because over
the past 10 years such groups as the Humane
Society have helped erase the stereotype of
themselves as slightly funny clubs of little
old ladies who have 16 cats each and hate
people.

ANIMALS’ FALSE FRIEND

They also have dramatically presented the
fact that there is at present literally no pro-
tection for the animals. Even the so-calied
American SPCA (actually it is New York
only) is not only completely ineffective in
the ﬁeld but under its current president,
William Rockefeller, is given to pious pro-
nouncements that humane societies ought to
sell animals to laboratories. Other SPCA’s,
independent of the American, are better,
notably the Massachusetts SPCA.

One thing is certain. If Congress does
nothing, the animals will not be the only
ones to suffer. So ‘will medical research.
For the American public is rapidly reaching
the point where, without speciﬁc assurances
that its money is not going for inhumanity
in the laboratories, it can no longer be count-
ed on to continue to write out check after
check for cause after cause.

And the public is also rapidly reaching the
point when it will not ask, but demand, that
its Government and its scientists obey the
highest law of all. The Right Reverend Mon-
signor LeRoy McWilliams, at the hearings,
put it best. “St. Thomas, the great doctor

July 31

and theologian,” he said, “warns about the

proper use of animals, lest they appear at
the ﬁnal judgment against us.”
signor McWilliams paused.
self,” he said quietly, “will take vengeance
on all who misuse His creatures.”

Here Mon-
“And God him-

Mr. CLARK. Mr. President, will the
Senator from Oregon yield to me once
more? This is the last time.

Mrs. NEUBERGER. I yield.

Mr. CLARK. I wonder if my friend
from Oregon has seen the column “First
of the Month” which appeared in the
Saturday Review of Literature for Au-
gust 3, 1963, also written by Mr. Amory

Mrs. NEUBERGER. Yes; I .have fol-
lowed the Saturday Review discussion on
the bill with great interest.

Mr. CLARK. The Senator will recall
that on the ﬁrst of June Mr. Amory
wrote a very strong article in the Satur-
day Review, taking the same position he
took in the Saturday Evening Post ar-
ticle. He points out in the August 3 ar-
ticle that as a result of the June 1 article,
he received 10,000 letters, 9,000 of them
in support of his position and the posi-
tion the Senator from Oregon and I
take. What surprises him is that, with
respect to the critical portion of the let-
ters—one-tenth of the total number—
very few letterwriters seemed to under-
stand that Mr. Amory was not opposed
to medical experimentation with animals,
but what he was opposed to was unneces-
sary cruelty to animals in experimenta-
tion.

In a sardonic vein, he refers to his
“doctors mail.” He says among the most
stupid letters are those from doctors. I
quote from the article:

Among those who pulled out all the old
anti-antivivisectionist arguments was none
other than Dr. Morris Fishbein himself who,
although happily no longer the mouthpiece
of the AMA labeled both us and the bills in
Washington “antivivisectionist.”

I am sure my friend from Oregon is
far too young to remember Dr. Fishbein,
but I can remember when I was a
middle-aged man the complete disre-
pute he came to for taking the American
Medical Association down the garden
path Of opposition to the medical care
program. In due course, he was let out
as the head of the American ”Medical
Association, because of the position he
took. I am afraid this kind of mail on
antivivisection is being publicized for the
people of the country with respect to
the issue.

Mr. President, I ask unanimous, con-
sent that the August 3 article from the
Saturday Review be printed at this point
in the RECORD.

There being no objection, the article
was ordered to be printed in the RECORD,
as follows:

[From Saturday Review, Aug. 3, 1963]

FIRST 01“ THE MONTH
(By Cleveland Amory)

Our column of June 1, broke, we believe,
the Olympian record of Saturday Review’s
writer-righters. We received more than 10,-
000 letters, 9,000 favorable. What surprised
us most about the critical portion of the mail
was that very few of the letterwriters seemed
to understand that we'are not opposed to
medical experimentation on animals; we are
opposed to unnecessary cruelty in such ex-
perimentation. Quoting nothing but our
“doctors mail,” however, Dr, Donald Hayes

 




 

1963

of Wake Forest College, N. C., suggested
“that all individuals who are opposed to ani-
mal experimentation should sign a pact in

, which they would agree not to avail them-
selves of antibiotics, antihistamines, and
anticancer drugs.” (The personal approach
of these researchers to research would itself
make a fascinating article.) Another who
signed himself just “Dr.” couldn’t wait, he
said, “until you, Mr. Amory, are being
wheeled into an operating rom: I wonder
then if you would care about the animals.”
Still another dedicated unsignee wanted to
know how much differently we would feel
“if your mother had cancer.” (As a matter
of ironic fact, she has.)

Among those who pulled out all the old
anti-antivivisectionist arguments was none
other than Dr. Morris Fishbein himself, who
although happily no longer the mouthpiece
of the AMA, labeled both us and the bills
in Washington "antivivisectionist”—-—de~
spite the fact, as even he knows, (1) of the
seven bills being considered, not a single one
is an antivivisectionist bill, and (2) not a
single one of them is being supported by a
single antivivisectionist organization. (For
further discussion on this point, see our
article in the current Saturday Evening
Post.)

We enjoyed, too, our medical student mail.
“People like yourself,” wrote Joy Schildkraut;
of the NYU Medical School, “not engaged
in scientiﬁc research, cannot comprehend
the purpose of experiments on animals.”
Joseph Becker, a student at MIT, went
further. “The very fact that we do kill ani-
mals," he wrote, “proves that we have the
right.”

Several doctors, among them Dr. Sheldon
Adler of Cambridge and Dr. Richard Nystrom
of Delaware, both pointed as evidence of the
necessity for unrestricted experimentation to,
of all things, the recent thalidomide case—
yet hardly were their letters received when
Dr. Widukand Lenz, of Hamburg, Germany,
who ﬁrst noted the link between thalido-
mide and infant deformities, told the Inter-
national Conference on Congenital Malfor-
mation meeting in New York, that “no
method of testing with animals allows us to
say with assurance that a drug would be
wholely safe in pregnancy.” And Dr. Clarke
Frazer of McGill went further. “You cannot
assume,” he said, “that because a drug ap-
pears safe in animals that it will be safe
in man."

Dr. Thomas Brock of Indiana University
told us ﬂatly that “most experimental ani-
mals are bred speciﬁcally for experimenta-
tion” and, “since such animals would never
have otherwise existed, it is hard to imagine
that their deaths, however induced, should
be of any particular importance.” Yet in
the same mail came a letter from a doctor
at MIT who admitted that he was revolted
by the fact that the animals are “frequently
stolen home pets. They are supplied by
dealers dealing directly with the thieves and
purchased from them by the research lab-
oratories. No questions are asked and no
records kept.”

The letters came, too, from Harvard, Yale,
and. Princeton. From Harvard, Dean Berry
declared that the proposed legislation would
“seriously impede the progress of science”
because it was “rarely possible to carry on a
signiﬁcant series of experiments without the
ability to modify. change, and redirect the
work as it progresses.” (Obviously, Dean
Berry has not read even one of the bills. be-
cause not a single one would rob any scien-
tist of any such power.) Yale’s Dr. Kline
declared that “virtually every State of the
Union already has laws to punish irrespon-
sible cruelty to animals and children." (The
fact ismagain research would have helped—
virtually every State exempts laboratories
from anticruelty laws. In some States the
exemptions are created by the implied mean-
ing of statutes, and by previous judicial rul-
ings. In other States, the exemptions for

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SEN ATE

“scientists” are explicit and absolute. For
example, the Wisconsin statute: “As used in
this section ‘torture’ does not include bona
fide experiments carried on for scientiﬁc re-
search." Princeton’s Dr. Harvey Rothberg’s
research on the subject was equally extraor-
dinary. He wrote to us of the “positive
efforts” of the National Society for Medical
Research and its so-called animal care panel.
Yet again, even the barest attempt to get his
facts would have told him that the latter is
actually a public relations front in front of
another public relations front-—the NSMR
itself is neither a medical society nor a re-
search society but merely the paid white-
washer of the animal-using laboratories.

But the real dilly came from a lady doctor,
Dr. June Greenspan, of Riverton, N.J., who
ﬁrst declared that we should “offer ourselves
as a laboratory experiment,” then added:

“I note with interest most of your pub-
lished replies are from women agreeing with
Mr. Amory. But naturalment. Women are
ﬁne protecting babies and house pets and
some husbands. This is their job. It is to be
expected that they would be the ﬁrst (ob-
viously along with some so-called intellect—
uals) to raise a cry against such goings-on
with poor little pussy cats and doggies and
those cute little ole’ white mice. Let’s keep
these women out of the labs and let the
scientists work. Ask some women scientists
for their opinion.”

As a matter of fact we will-—we can hardly
wait to get any other opinion than that one.
In conclusion, however, we should like to
quote from a doctor who asked that his name
be withheld but declared: “I hold a Ph. D.
degree and I am working at one of the most
highly regarded academic institutions of the
United States * " “ The facts are not con-
sistent with the oft-repeated claim that all is
well in biological research. ‘ " * I have in-
deed witnessed cases of callous indifference,
as well as unnecessarily cruel experiments, on
numerous occasions. I wish to mention only
examples which I myself have encountered
repeatedly:

“(1) Operations on unanesthetized ani-
mals because anesthesia was inconvenient to
the investigator.

“(2) Undergraduate students disecting
unanesthetized but drug-immobilized ani-
mals for ‘practice’ in their spare time.

“(3) Animals in cages too small to turn
around in (some of these animals were
pregnant).

“ (4) Animals dead from thirst and starva—
tion when their care over the weekend had
not come to work and had not notiﬁed a
substitute.

"(5) Graduate students who professed
their pleasure in performing painful experi-
ments. There is no reason to assume that
these' students, after receiving their doctor-
ates, will not set up research programs of
their own.”

The doctor also pointed out that all this
commotion is to get the same kind of bill
that a country named Great Britain passed
in 1876.

Mr. CLARK. I congratulate the Sen-
ator from Oregon for cosponsoring this
legislation. I pledge my support to at-
tempting to have hearings and getting
the bills to the ﬂoor. If we do so, per-
haps we can meet the desire of the ma-
jority leader to act promptly and get bills
to the ﬂoor for early consideration.

Mrs. NEUBERGER. I thank the Sen-
ator.

Mr. President, I ask unanimous con-
sent that an editorial from the Orego~
nian of November 5, 1962, on this subject,
be included in my remarks.

There being no objection»; the editorial
was ordered to be printed in the RECORD,
as follows:

13025

[From the Oregonian, Nov. 5, 196-]
ANIMALS IN PAIN

That laboratory animals must often be
subjected to some measure of pain, even a
painful death, to enable medical researchers
to discover ways to prevent human suffering
and death, is understood. Yet it is not con-
ceivable that unnecessary suffering and dis-
comfort by these animals could in any way
further the cause of medical science.

Two bills now pending in Congress call
for the licensing and inspection of individ-
uals and institutions who conduct laboratory
experiments on living animals and who re~
ceive Federal grants for research.

The bills, HR. 1937 and S. 3088. are spon—
sored by Senators MAURINE NEUBERGER, Dem-
ocrat, of Oregon, and‘JOSEPH S. CLARK, Dem-
ocrat, of Pennsylvania, and Representative
MARTHA GRIFFITHS, Democrat, of Michigan.
First introduced 2 years ago, the bills have
been since bottled up in Senate and House
committees.

Testimony and evidence offered at Septem-
ber congressional hearings on the bills in-
dicated gross and unnecessary abuse of lab-
oratory animals in several instances.

Identical in structure, the bills in no way
hinder legitimate, responsible research in-
volving living animals. They would insure
humane housing and treatment of laboratory
animals, including adequate and comfortable
resting and exercising areas, proper feeding,
sanitation, and ventilation.

More important, “animals used in any ex-
periment which would result in pain shall
be anesthetized so as to prevent the animals
feeling the pain during and after the experi-
ment except to the extent that the use of
anesthetics would frustrate the object of the
experiment, and in any event, animals which
are suffering severe and prolonged pain shall
be painlessly killed.”

Both bills are patterned after legislation
adopted in England nearly 90 years ago. Pas-
sage would mark only the second time that
humane laws have been enacted on the Fed-
eral level. The ﬁrst governs the slaughter
of meat animals in processing plants holding
Federal Government contracts. Oregon
adopted a similar State law in the 1961 legis-
lative session.

An objective and unemotional study of
HR. 1937 and S. 3088 reveals that the bills
do not attempt to prohibit experimental re-
search. Enactment would of course increase
the administrative costs of such research,
since records would have to be kept and re-
ports submitted periodically to the Depart-
ment of Health, Education, and Welfare.
But we do not need to count our research
pennies as closely as that. These are good
bills, and should be adopted.

 




EUGENE R. HUSSEY, D. V. M.
WEST SIDE RIVER ROAD
NORTH CONWAY. NEW7 HAMPSHIRE

_—

Fleetwood 6-5538

3 much for Vow? lotter an}

;

W -

3‘“. T ' ,_ _. _f .A ‘ 3 r
a new mamwg. 10 An mai

L- ">4

+9) ”£3911 you that ’6‘:

A - ..,. . - ’\ . ‘2 ’7 T,“ : r «N a - r‘ ' . i ‘ J‘
“fqﬂUC rpn*osen+at;ve Me Ion HQWQUU cf bonwav an all

1

c ‘ f" f“
Conﬁn?d breaenc far the nrotcctlwn an; woyrare OT

. . . ‘V
70 u3=1 "pan inform th viewer aoenczes ah;

.I ~ .: 7.. .‘_ .
I ,. ,. ‘ .2" ‘ M “L‘
haunul Clun a: Vﬂhf lgpﬂur.

T},— r‘. 1/. ‘ P ,‘1‘ I: ,‘1... \ ' \‘ -Y§ (~71 {\V-Vl WITI’W'Y‘

, '. IL“; IF} I":- >7 ‘ ‘ K11 :, ' .I -V :f -’ 2. u ‘3'; ‘ ‘ ’ ‘ l) ‘1 “’ ’2‘
1

3 . .. . A ..1- f. .- ‘ 1-. :. .-. » ~ r‘ 7 ‘ -T~ ' r r

33‘: C31,.K‘iC- ;‘_.*-’>n 81‘“; "7C i 3.;t:..M-,”?I.Dﬂ:.>

6* if"? e", .7. 3" 7. C .

.6)

/
;r I , -. ‘
. \r-, (—L»(';,} EJLLIQ./

f ‘ .uu—
g I ’ )
Hg" 38‘; , ”Magi .J

;

; "-

 




\WESTERN RESERVE UNIVERSITY

THE SCHOOL OF MEDICINE

DEPARTMENT OF SURGERY
CLEVELAND METROPOLITAN GENERAL HOSPITAL
(FORMERLY CITY HOSPITAL)
CLEVELAND 9. OHIO

August 18,

Mrs. Madilyn La Roche
R. F. D.
Lancaster, New Hampshire

Dear Mrs. La Roche

Thank you for writing to us about your interest
in the isolated brain. We are sorry that you are

disappointed in our investigations since they are
designed solely for the ultimate benefit of mankind.

Sincerely yours,

:gzcrt te
Sectigéigfﬂ NeuroSurgery

RJW : lbm

 




LISTER HILL, ALA., CHAIRMAN

PAT MCNAMARA, MICH. BARRY GOLDWATER, ARIZ.
WAYNE MORSE, OREG. JACOB K. JAVITS, N.Y.
RALPH YARBOROUGH, TEX. WINSTON L. PROUTY, VT.
JOSEPH S. CLARK, PA. JOHN G. TOWER, TEX.
JENNINGS RANDOLPH, W. VA. LEN B. JORDAN, IDAHO
HARRISON A. WILLIAMS, JR., N.J.

CLAIBORNE PELL, RJ.

EDWARD M. KENNEDY, MASS.

LEE METCALF', MONT.

STEWART E. MC CLURE, CHIEF CLERK
JOHN S. FORSYTHE, GENERAL COUNSEL

”PJCnifeb ﬁfafeg $enafe

COMMITTEE ON
LABOR AND PUBLIC WELFARE

’—
\

,>
<

I

I ,
(gym («m /'[;¢.4//Lé/V

 




//
///%/-
//

\
\

//////////////
//

‘ i ®
\ \\\\\
\\\\\\§\\\\\\\ \\\\\\\\\\\\\ \\\\\\\\\\\\\\\ \\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\ \\\\\\\\\

\\\\\\\\\\\\\\§

%////

\\\

§\\\\\\\\\\K\\\\

\\
\\\\\\
\\\\\\\\\\\“\\\\ \\\\

\\\\\\\

M ERCHANDI SE MART PLAZA

CHICAGO, ILLINOI S 60654

AREA CODE 312
TELEPHONE 527-0600

august 10,

LaRo

‘
0121513 .

Thank you
our mutual friends,
las one

for your letter of Ju
the male. We,
I. r :. -.
“ 29 lelLUﬂ uaLs

£31223.
1'" ix """I: "Q "‘ '7 '3
L .4.- fht. 1. .LL 8

C.)

Our compgny

\\\\\\\\\\

’79
1..

w 3:: c:

regards animal 8.

.-

Clogs
AC.

cat

camels for nuLli'

iving

hung-4‘

“Lili

at aur dgg

2’ r" ‘ .- .1 . "
8.23 .221 CL}. 17.}.

Barrington,
esting

various fogds

111.,

d a {Happ} and leisure l" i‘*
taste and nutritional va‘

.4.

-
U.

U

whit h desc

r
yau will be inLLLLSC
our company is for e haalth

£3
-L,
in O

‘- “NV

SOLth}

Quaker
83):.

. 1t. ‘ I19! ,"3'
lCiLﬁL 5.1

Public

AX

le Ci

 




ESTATE OF LDTTA M. BRABTREE

GEORGE A. PARKER
619 WASHINGTDN 5
B TREET JOHN J. U’HARE’ JR.
DSTDN 11, MASS, TIMOTHY J. DRISCDLL
TRUSTEES

August 20, 196A

Mrs. Madelyn LaRoche
R. F. D.
Lancaster, New Hampshire

Dear Madam:

Your letter of July 27, 1964 is acknowledged and is

referred to Mr. Clarance E. Richard, Managing Director
of the National Anti-Vivisection Society, 100 East Ohio
Street, Chicago 11, Illinois.

Sincerely yours,

Estate of Lot I. Crabtree

“MA- W

Geor e A. Parker, Trustee

 




THE

Quaker Oats

COMPANY

DOG & CAT

KENNELS FOR
NUTRITIONA
RESEARCH

BARRINGTON, ILLINOIS

 




 

SERIOUS WORK IN

A SCENIC SETTING

This is the story of how five hundred (logs and
cats are helping progress by enjoying themselves.

Here, in the world’s most modern pet nutrition
center, these pets dwell in pleasant. pastel
rooms and airy runs while Quaker scientists
work on dietary discoveries which can lead to
better health and longer life for dogs and
cats everywhere.

Whatever your interest in pets. we hope that
the pages which follow will help you share
something of our enthusiasm and our pride in
these new research facilities and the work
being done here.

 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   

 

 

 




1 Reception and Foyer

 

 

Rooms
3 Clinical Laboratory
4 Offices
5 West Wing Kennels

“minim

 

 

THE QUAKER OATS COMPANY DOG‘ecAT K’EN‘NELS FOR NUTRITIONAL RESEARCH

‘ 6. North Wing Cattery

'.7,'EastWing Kennels

‘ 8 Feevareparation Room
j . [S‘Ma’intenance Shop

10 catN'ursery

1.1 Receiving

12 Offices and Laboratories
(second floor)

13 Conference and
Laboratories (second

2 Library and Conference ‘

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

iii-R ,

  
 

-*_,‘I“‘"

 
     
 
 

    

WORLD’S LARGEST
FACILITIES
OF THEIR KIND

Quaker’s new research kennels are de-
voted entirely to feeding programs and
nutritional studies. While we cooperate
with leading universities, the kennels
sustain themselves without university
grant or federal subsidy. In size, archi-
tectural planning, equipment and scope
of scientific endeavor these Quaker fa-
cilities have no equal in private enter-
prise.

Lying five miles northwest of Barring-
ton, Illinois, a growing Chicago suburb,
our kennels occupy a section of a 470—
acre researchfarm. A short drive north—
east leads you to our research poultry
farm. And, in Barrington proper, you’ll
find Quaker’s John Stuart Research
Laboratories. Here —— intimately linked

'with our kennel research—analytic and

organic chemistry staffs do precise as-
says on pet foods, and explore the mys-
teries of nutritional theory and food
acceptability.

The sketch (left) shows the efficient,
modern design of our handsome research
kennels. Supplies are delivered direct to
the food preparation room. Food prep-
aration is centrally situated to eliminate
delays in serving all animal residents. A
large library, conference rooms, labora—
tories and oﬂ'ices in the main buildings
provide integrated facilities for quiet
technical discussion and processing of
test results.

  




GOURMET SERVICE FOR FRISKY FRIENDS

Quaker provides food and exercise in spotless
quarters. Result—healthy, happy dogs for
meaningful research

V P ‘h ' 2‘ L
.4...“ x mull". .

KENNEL FEATURES

TWO WINGS—each 183’ long
x 57’ wide. Capacity: 80 runs
each. Total: 160.

STAINLESS STEEL FRAME

AND DOORS. No rust. Eas-
ier sanitation control.

TWO-WAY PLEXIGLAS
ACCESS. Dog enters or
leavesinteriorquartersatwill.

20’ x 4’ EXERCISE RUNS.
Plenty of freedom to roam or
rest. Sloping drainage.

SUN-AND-STORM SHADE.
Special roof construction

keeps dogs cool on hot days
-dry on rainy ones.

 

 




 

About 200 dogs live at Quaker’s research ken—
nels. They get the best treatment possible. All
are registered purebreds—Boxers, Dalmatians,
Dachshunds, English Springers, Chihuahuas and
Miniature Poodles. We work with many different
breeds to discover the nutritional reactions and
dietary problems peculiar to each type as well
as the species.

There are 160 permanent outside runs, 80 in
each kennel wing, plus extra temporary runs.
Each 20’ x 4’ exercise area leads up a ramp to a
resting shelf where the dog may retreat in un-
pleasant weather. A hinged Plexiglas door con-
nects to the light, airy interior where individual
kennel quarters are raised table—high off the
floor. Inside walls are sealed with waterproof
paint. Sloping floors, U-trap cage drainage and
easy access underneath further insure maximum
sanitation. Stainless steel eliminates disease—
collecting rust spots. The removable kennel
doors, for example, feature stainless grillework.
Overhead, circulating fans and hot water heaters
maintain comfortable year—round temperatures.
Ceilings are made of acoustical plaster to cut
down noise and the communication of animal
excitement.

Interior design is wholly modular. Each dog’s
floor space can be adjusted to his needs. Taken
together, all these features represent years of
thoughtful planning and the most modern con-
struction to be found anywhere. With careful
supervision by our competent kennelmaster, our
animal residents enjoy life to the fullest in clean,
cheerful surroundings.

  
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

Forty exercise runs line each side of the main corridors in the two kennel
wings. That’s 160 permanent runs in all, plus extra temporary kennel runs.

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Dogs have the freedom of roomy exercise
areas. Silicone-treated concrete block
walls have marine plywood partitions.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Daily cleansing keeps kennel runs clean
and sanitary. Ramp and resting shelf at
rear offer dog shade and rain shelter. ,




 

CATTERY—MODEL HOME FOR FELINES

Pastel rooms and night lights keep Quaker"s BOO—plus pets
purring with contentment. Such flattery gets us
somewhere . . . closer to answers on cut. nutrition

   
   
     

CATTERY FEATURES

AREA: 143’ long x 40’ wide.
0 CAT MATERNITY AND
NURSERY. Special care for
mothers and kittens.
MOISTURE-SEALED
CONCRETE BLOCK.

For easier cleaning.

0 ALUMINUM SCREENS
THROUGHOUT. For far
better sanitation.

0 CENTRAL CONTROL ROOM. .

Sensitive air flow and

temperature regulation.

 

Cattery View looking south. The louvered “cottage"
actually houses a giant exhaust fan. Every 21/22 minutes
it provides a complete change of cattery air. Cattery

sun porches are aluminum-screened.

 

 

 

 




~---;-—-.-~ M... 3" mwm 5-2:“.W... ._. W. -71 ;.~

Quaker’s nutrition research depends upon healthy, calm, peace-loving
subjects. That’s why we pamper our pets with scratching trees and rest-
ing shelves. There are 23 fluorescent-lighted rooms, each 11’ x 101/2’ with
a 43—square-foot aluminum screened porch attached. Flies can’t get in,
cats can’t get out. All rooms and the dividing corridor are concrete block,
and stippled with several layers of easily cleaned, waterproof paint in
tones of beige, pink and green.

Over 300 domestic shorthairs and Siamese appreciate the loving care.
So do our Barrington Browns, a special strain which is breeding true.
These chocolate cats resemble nothing that’s been bred to date. They live
like the rest, serving nutritional research . . . and waiting to be served.

Power scrubbers keep cattery quar- The upper echelon. Cat resting shelves give
ters spotless. Note corner washstand. tabbies a chance to get their feet off the ground,
When feeding, attendants must wash and satisfy their natural instincts. Cattery walls
their hands before they leave room. are sealed with tough, waterproof paint.

 




    
  
    

CODED DIETS. . . MEASURED TO
THE NEAREST 1/454th OF A POUND

Weigh—in-weig‘l’i—(mt feedings determine
what pets like and how iiuti'itinus it is

Stainless steel feeding pans c2365;
completely sanitized, all harirnf clean“
Prepa ‘ation Room is a mode 0




   
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

Our research kennels’ Food Preparation Room prepares over 500 meals

I, a day. Every meal is weighed to the nearest gram before serving. After

‘ feeding, we collect the dishes, and weigh the uneaten food. All diets are
carefully coded, and weight differentials recorded for tabulation and
analysis. In preference (palatability) tests our measurements determine
which foods animals like best in terms of flavor, texture, odor and ap-
pearance. Our Clinical Laboratory handles more involved nutritional
data.

Stainless steel dishes, fixtures and hardware dominate our Food Prep-
aration Room. The floor is beautiful, sanitary quarry tile, and dishwash-
ing is fully automatic. The conveyor delivers pans completely sanitized,
free of all pathogenic organisms. Quaker is proud of this facility where,
literally, the food is untouched by human hands.

 

 

M E T T L E R G R A M
SCALE (left) is accurate
to one gram (1/454 lb.)
on its sensitive illumi-
nated dial. After weigh-
ing, food is served to
pets from stainless steel
cartsbyneatattendants.

 

  
 
 
 

come Ollt of the automatic dishwasher ‘
nful orgafllsms killed. The entire Food
of cleanliness and modern design.

  




 
 
  
   
      
 
 
  

,

 

, ﬂu
No
PGt foo d
rSu . actu .
w haVe Co: Camne-fehnerer 1S better e _ l
w veterinarpErated With -nutrit10na1 reqUIppe d than Q
ings to thy groups. Our Important unisearch' For ye Haker ~
0 n V ' ' a ‘ ;
SE Of Quaker,s fwa modern k erSItleS and 1 1S Iwe 1
Ohm Stuart REnnels add th 'eafdmg
eseal‘Ch L 8” ind-
aborat . ‘
Orles. 1

It’s a
most
progreSs. happy unlion th
. Our nutrit' ’ e 1«'Atest link '
Just af . lonists’ S . In 3 Ion .
8w. the effE‘CtStugleS range fa g Chaln Of
0 . r
addltives On nintd wide. We’ll
ritiOnal d name
eficienc
y;

  
  
   

 

Hume-v p 0'
s’n‘dax‘ﬂn‘» ‘

wpﬁqty‘u
“‘“ﬂ'ﬁ'vlb An
13*.«ﬁm4y3r, w
:ﬁzﬁtzs‘gu :
":éwaizp‘gkf‘
‘ v
‘ ﬁlm‘s.” ’

‘so

( a. ‘ .-
o ‘ . 5
§.:3c%§:¢rﬁv,uﬁa~
ﬁlw‘u’uﬁag‘ngu»
ar‘ on: c» v,»
7“ ‘4‘" ' 5‘20?“
" £14m”
) (5&2 ‘ 5., '1‘.
an “$97.52,:

A ,5 1E»!
‘ ‘7

»

«No

'41

(:8;
1‘ $339"
97.)?)-

‘
a *5;
«4,3 ,,

33/
r?

C010 .
OXYgen r fehne b Ion 0f h
carrYin 100d sh émoglob-
g capacity 02:71: ern 0011:: levels

e red COr nt and Urinal -

pusc1e5_ of anirizas helps dete
of stand ' Sugar and

8rd pI'Oc
edUI‘e.

‘33

   

 




 
 

IS THE DOUBLE CHECK

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
       
      
 

the nutritional differences between dogs and cats; appetite
stimulation; metabolism studies; growth and reproduction
response to dietary elements; protein analysis—and many
more projects. What we learn will improve existing Quaker
pet foods, and bring forth new and needed products.

The Clinical Laboratory supervises feeding research as
a necessary double—check on other laboratory work. Only
prolonged feeding can duplicate the “real life” use of pet
foods, and disclose what any one diet does for dogs or cats.

 

 

 

Hematocrit equipment. Used in Protein determination of Quaker pet foods on John Stuart Research Laboratories stand on a 100-acre

 

bIQOd studies to determine the nu- modern analytical equipment. Vitamin assays, tract in Barrington, Ill. Air—conditioned buildings
tritional status of animal residents. proximate analyses and microphysical tests cover 88,000 square feet, and house Quaker s analytical
also guard top quality during manufacture. and organic chemistry divisions, food labs, two pilot

plants, product control section, a 5,000-volume library.

  




   

In Appearance and in Health

QUAKER TAKES CARE OF ITS OWN

 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  

Between our veterinarian and kennelmaster,
Quaker’s pets hardly have a chance to get sick before
getting well! But, occasionally, illness does strike.
When it does, we try to get the poor fellow back on
his feet fast. Antibiotics and isolation are routinely
used, and help protect the other animals.

Our kennelmaster oversees his charges with an eye
to sanitation. Kennel health demands Cleanliness in
every corner where disease germs may lurk. Quaker’s
veterinarian is responsible for programming immu—

 

 
     
 
   
   
   
 
    
      

This Boxer pup is included in the careful ex—
aminations every dog gets. The table—high
compartments conveniently permit close ob-
servation of our animals, who may be easily
transferred to a wheeled examining table
when necessary. Kennel compartment doors
are of sanitary stainless steel.

 
     

Soothing talk calms dogs while stetho— Toenail trimming keeps pets comfort-
scope checks heart and lung sounds. able and well—groomed, doesn’t hurt.

 




 

 

 

nizations and all medical care as the need arises.
The dogs have been chosen for good health and
conformation, and all are registered with the Amer-
ican Kennel Club. Grooming needs vary with differ-
ent breeds. Our care is scheduled accordingly.
There are facilities where surgery of all types, cae-
sarians, whelping assistance and emergency treat-
ment come to the aid of our pets. Quaker’s animal
care facilities and techniques are completely profes-
sional in every respect.

 

x. _

Kitten nursery is light and airy with Palatability tests let cats exercise free
Stainless steel doors and resting shelf. preference for different research diets.

 

 

 

g
i
g
l
l

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 

The cat nursery and maternity keeps mother
and kittens doing well. A complete vaccina-
tion program, pregnancy examinations and
regular weighings are standard procedure.
Cats, like our dogs, receive complete physical
check-ups periodically in addition to their
daily external inspections.

 

 
    
 
   
 
  

 
 
     




ANOTHER RESEARCH MILESTONE

TO MARK THE WAY AHEAD

Quaker’s research kennels represent a considerable in—
vestment in plant and equipment which is more than
justified by the results achieved. Working with our Bar-
rington laboratories they pass on product developments
and nutritional findings of inestimable value to Quaker
production facilities. Our 7 pet food manufacturing plants
in Rockford, Illinois, Marion, Ohio, Joplin, Missouri,
Cedar Rapids, Iowa, Pascagoula, Mississippi, Wilming-
ton, California and Lubec, Maine, rely on this research.
It is a prime factor in Quaker’s year-in—year-out leader-
ship in pet food output and sales.

1923—Ken-L-Ration invented. The first
canned dog food.

1935—Puss 'n Boots Cat Food appears on
California shelves.

1942—Quaker purchases Chappel Bros.,
lnc., Rockford, lll., manufacturer
of Ken-L-Ration.

1946—Enlarged Ken-L-Products Division
plant built at Marion, Ohio.

1950—Quaker Oats purchases Puss ’n
Boots, Wilmington, Calif. and

Lubec, Me. manufacturing plants.
1952—Pascagoula Puss 'n Boots plant be-
gins production. Joplin plant pur-
chased for Ken—L-Ration.
1956—John Stuart Research Laboratories
dedicated at Barrington, Illinois.
1959—John Stuart Research Laboratories
enlarged.
1960-4309 6: Cat Kennels for Nutritional
Research dedicated. World's largeSt
facilities of their kind.

 




 

  

RESEARCH

M A K 5‘8:le R I G H T

BEfORE
IT‘S» MADE

Ken-L-Ration Flsh Formula Meat Flavor Ken-L-Biskit Ken-L-Meal Ken-L Treats Ken-L-Burger
Puss 'n Boots Puss 'n Boots

 




Your Guide to
THE

Quaker Oats

COMPANY

DOG & CAT
KENNELS FOR
NUTRITIONAL
RESEARCH

Printed in US. A.

./V'

“@546.

/

450 ACRE
STOCK FARM

 

RESEARCH
LABORATORIES

ll“,
40421: 4 V;

I
’
’ ’

’ LAKE ST.

POULxTRY
FARM

MAIN STREET

Research Kennels, 480 W. Highway 22, Barrington. Illinois

John Stuart Research Laboratories. 6i? Main Street, Barrington, Illinois

General Offices. Merchandise Mart Plaza, Chicago 54. lllinois
KP—39-60K f 1960 The Quaker Oats Company, Chicago. Illinois

 




7W?) «£5 43.3.5.1

Lab Animals k"Firm/(,4- ll C 3' /i‘ UV

. Gains Momentum -~

 

TV, Radio Interviews
Call Attention to Cruelty

Facts about the suffering of animals
in laboratories were presented to vast
audiences when Helen E. Jones,
NCSAW Executive Director, was in-
terviewed recently on the Pamela Ma-
son Show, one of the West Coast’s most
popular television programs, and on
Kanine Korner, a radio show con—
ducted by Francis X. Lohmann.

Both programs originate in Los
Angeles and reach large areas of the
West Coast.

The interviews called attention to
the cruel conditions under which ani-
mals in laboratories are experimented
upon and housed, the need for effec-
tive remedial legislation and the edu-
cational work of The NCSAW to
prevent nationwide cruelties.

M ~,ijLmann also writes a ani e
Korner column for the Burbank In—
dependent in which he has described
the work of The NCSAW

NCSAW members in the Los An-
geles area attended a meeting addressed
by Miss Jones at the Hollywood
Roosevelt February 9.

l

 

Not even television’s Dr. Kildare
is immune to propaganda against laws
for the protection of animals. A New
York Post columnist noted recently
that “Dr. Kildare played a light little
story again—and very well—with
Suzanne Pleshette guest—starring for a
change in a quite healthy role. The
animal-kindness theme was credible
but some of the lines were possibly
a little obvious what with the current
campaign in Congress by humane
groups. for passage of legislation to
regulate the handling of laboratory
animals in medical experiments . . .”

 

- ver inﬂicts pain.

CARDINAL MANNING

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

A Bit of the Thoreau

His hands stuffed deep into his pock—

ets, his collar turned up to shield "him.,_

from the wind, naturalist 111.3] Borland

walked quicklyrto the big ripple'”t1"'ee"'

in his backyard. He replenished several
feeders with sunflower seed and millet,
glanced about his 100 acres at the early
signs of spring, and, as the chickadees,
song sparrows, juncos, and woodpeckers
settled down for breakfast, returned to
the warmth of his book-lined study.

It was only 6 a.m., but Borland’s work-
day was already well under way. After
reading the newspapers and making
notes in his journal, the 63-year-old

PRESS

was published last week), Borland has i

managed to stay close to home ever
since; “I’ve found the perfect world here
—a home at the end of nowhere,” says

Borland, who has not visited the Times ‘
Eoflice in two years and mails or phones

in his editorials. “This is the only way
to live—waiting for the vernal equinox,
seeing an apple tree blossom, or coming

on an old coon and her kits ﬁshing for ‘

clams late at night.”

Borland’s reputation as a chronicler of
nature is by no means limited to his
lower Berkshire neighbors or his Times
readers. Scores of people (ranging from
a Texas policeman to Supreme Court
Justice William 0. Douglas) have
dropped by unannounced just to chat;

Ne sweek—l’hil Ma

Borland and his birds: “This is the only way to live9

free-lancer started typing his weekly
unsigned nature editorial for The New

much of his writing has been reprinted
in anthologies and textbooks; and he has

York Times. “The violets willf'cometénax an honorary doctorate from the Univer-

their own time,” wrote Borhind, who has
been turning out warm, vivid Supday
pie‘cesrfgr \theKTimes editorial page‘vever

s‘fncTéI‘9461”‘“THKt” " is‘“‘reanjv"“all ”Hf-5t was

written in the sky by Friday’s equinox.
The sun’s summons will not be answered
overnight, but the answer is inevitable.
The first hungry bee at the ﬁrst crocus
hums of June, and the ﬁrst green leaf
forecasts'cool summer shade. All is in
order. Spring is the earth’s commitment
to the year.”

Home: Borland’s natural world cen-
ters around his farm (which he doesn’t
work), nestled between the Housatonic
River and Tom’s Mountain in Salisbury,

' Conn. He moved there with his ﬁdééﬁét-

wi e twelve years ago. And, between
his Times editorials, regular contributions
to The \Bekrkshi‘regEagle and Theerro-
gressiye, and some twenty books (his
latest, a collection of 365 Times edi—
torials, called “Sundial of the Seasons,”*

 

*850 pages. Lippincott. $5.95.

\- I ‘ l I .
s‘ity of Colorado, in his natlve state.

“Yoshi-ruler: Borland has always
been something of a nature boy. He

"'was raised on a homestead, moved East '

to Columbia University’s School of jour-
nalism, and, after working on newspa-
pers from Salt Lake City to Philadelphia,
joined the Times staff in 1937. One!
afternoon four years later, he submitted

a brief essay on the English oak to“:

Charles Merz, then editor of the edi-
torial page; Merz was impressed—and
so were Times readers who saw his oc-
casional pieces. When Borland quit the
Times to free-lance, he agreed to con-
tinue writing his nature editorials. “I
guess it’s like a bad habit,” said Borland.

“I hope it never ends. It’s a kind of.
weekly report on what’s going on up-

in the country.”

Though some big-city folk may scoff~

at the subject matter of the editorials,

Times. edema-Bilge editor 101‘“ , Oakﬁtsa

lis” not at" all surprised b‘y'their continuing
success. “In this supermechanized world

 

 

. ""‘.
4' .“‘-.

fwe live ‘in', the appeal ofipgrnaturalifbeauty-'--~ '
and ofthe quiet and v‘ti’anq’u‘illityfof; 5
ture is something ,peéfple: flikeﬂto' tum'v
to,” says Oake‘svf‘who 'doles'vlittle ,or' no
editing 0n Borland’s pieces.”“Everybody:
'has a bit of the Thoreau in.'hi'r'ni'.” _}

"Sing All“ '

’I‘

 

 

 

 




the Outstanding contempo‘
rary writers, but a noted
.publicist, a great humani-’
tarian, and a propagandist
for peace on earth and goOd
will among men.

Too many years ago to
think much about, I 'was a
cub reporter on a New York
neivspaper, long defunct. Its
chief claim to fame was its
possession of the dean of
dramatic critics and perhaps
the greatest in the history of
the American stage, William
Winter. A man of inordinate
vanity, strong prejudices and
bitter antipathies, he could
make or break a new play. and
most of its players—which he
often did. Yet his judgment
was protound and his dra~

iatic insight keen and un-
erring. . He ruled the New
York stage.

' A worthy subject
Since his time, any number
of critics, a few good, most
indifferent, have followed
more or less in his footsteps
up and down Broadway. But
to my way of thinking, and
that of a good many more
whose judgment in the prem-
ises is better than mine, none
has overshadowed the man
who retired not long ago as
'critic of the eminent New
York Times, Brooks Atkinson.
He is the one I want to
talk about, and I shall try to
show that he is a worthy
subject, much more than as a
dramatic critic, important as
that is. He. is also a book-
1'eviewer and an outstanding
one. Even more than that,
'Mr. Atkinson is a keen and
discerning judge of men. and
their manifold activities, of
world affairs and their signif-
icance, and he also is a great

humanitarian.~"Not iniﬁh

Ixﬁ ore‘ban be said of any man. .

Since his retirement as a
critic, he has written a col-
who in the mues-
@332“ 1 ays’ﬁt Ts, to
the ext tmoo words, or
'so, IMr. Atkinson deals with
everything you could think
of and more, tee. Random
House has published a book
of 102 of these columns. It

i .Ig'qalled Tuesdays and ".Fria'vfIﬁ
I ' In it, Mr. AtkinSOnxf

great American W

ff" I wish, an it please you, ..
j' 1.0911111. today: alittle ~.about .11: XI.
man who is not only one of ~

" ”@332
on

, Brooks Atkinson
"m

.4-0

grations and Spring in the

Catskills, The National Purn

pose and the decadence of
the English language, Edith
Hamilton on Neo-Platonism,
and the Seneca Indians.

Now in this last, we find
the evidence of Mr. Atkin-
son’s humanitarianism. on
may ave hear about our
breach of the treaty George
Washington made. with the
Seneca Indians as to their
land rights. It read “the Uni-
ted States will never claim
their lands. nor disturb the
Seneca nation.” President
Kennedy echoed. this during
his campaign. “There will be
no change in treaty or con-
tractual relations without
the consent of the tribes con-
cerned. We will discharge our
moral obligations to our first
Americans.”

A dark chapter

What are the facts, as Mr.
Atkinson points them out?
They, are. that the Eisen«-
hower administration permit-
ted the first moves to estab-
lish the great Kinzua Dam on
the Seneca Resprvatién, and
his successors, despite Mr.

.Kennedy’s assurance, contin-

ued the business, thus de-
priving‘more than 800 Seneca
Indians of their lands and

homes, in direct contraven- I
- tion (11’ a treaty promise made
"1: to them by the American gov:- .

ernment more than 150 years
ago. Mr. Atkinson can this
‘ 1111, ” {and as; it is. And

111g tlfe rights 9‘1 the;
th an

whom as a whole is one of
the «321111 chapters in Ameri-
can history, his humanitari~
anism declares itself.

In] another column, he takes

a fling-wand who shall say it '
isn’t mer‘itedr-‘at television

advertising. Now Mr. Atkin—
son possesses in full measure
that indispensable attribute
of a. good writer, a sense of
humor, and there he makes ef-
fective use of it.

“Countless advertising
pitches on TV prove,” he al-
leges, “that the human body
is hopelessly vile, being ai~
ﬂicted with everything from
decayed teeth to B0. What-
ever the Greeks and the
Romans (who made a fetish
of bodily health, i.e. mens
sana ’ in same corpora)
thought, it is impossible to
avoid the conclusion. that
the American body is not a
fit thing to have around the
house."

A frugal fellow

What Mr. Atkinson means,
as you must have gathered,
is that television advertising
of every conceivable nostrum
and medicament assumes that
the said American body is af-
ﬂicted with one or many of
the varied and various ail-
ments set forth, and therefore
is such 'a thing 'as “is not ﬁt
to have around the house.”
That ought to give the TV
advertisers something to
think about.

\Mr. Atkinson is an ardent
Thoreauite. He also agrees
with Emerson that “who so
would be a man must be a
non-conformist.” And he
takes the somewhat surpris-
ing position that the Sage
of Walden Pond would have
objected most strenuously to
inclusion in the American
Hall of Fame. Why? In the
ﬁrst place, Henry David
cared little or nothing for
what is known as fame.

In the second place, and
more important, he'was a fru-
gal- living fellow and Mr.
Atkinson reckons that Ther-
eau w0uld have had the $10,.-
000 or $11,000 or some such

that it costs to put a man 1'11

the said Hall of Fame, (cost
of the statue and this-and-

that) put to a better use, such _-
as sonar services, education;
care of the indigent, and aged_-.I_

.\ ‘ 1‘

Brooks Atkinson is also as“;

strong for the;~ .Iednservation

' SOUI‘CCS

A I stronger.

Biooks Atkinson in Marc. Greene s 13110111,,~
qualiﬁes for 11 1311011 bit of high praise“; ,.

as~ ever the la "V
Teddy Roosevelt. and maylb

concerned about preservas
tion of f‘6rests, such as red

pine and white spruce, ‘b‘e‘e‘i‘ﬁ

cause he wants these left

alone for the comert and ----
Convenience of wildlife. Any»

way, Mr. Atkinson quotes _a
Providence man, Scott Cor-
bett , to this effect, said gen:-

tleman having, according ,toé‘."

He is part1cularly:

the columnist, “his tongue his:

both cheeks,” something of a
physical achievement. .

“I can tell you right off
that you have a lot of totally

undeveloped land up ‘there

that’s just sitting around be-

ing scenery. . . . An oil-boom-

in your area would mean that "

you could throw up a few 7..

hundred split~leve1 ranch-
houses, with a lamp in every
picture window, and sell the-
whole shebang for a real
killing. Wit h any luck at all
you might even get the state
to put a new six-lane stiper-
highway smack through the

middle of your property... -.

If you don’t want that, what
do you want? To support a

bunch of bluebirds for the:

rest of your life?”

As for me, my hat is off.
to Mr. Corbett, though I-
haven t the pleaSuie of his ac-
quaintance.

A false note

Mr. Atkinson is also an ad.-_
vocate of proper English,
such English, as he puts it,

as would suit Queen Eliza-1,;

beth. He refers complimentar-I

ily to a book called 'WatéthfI

Your English by one of the ’
Times editors, Theodore M
of which 40,000.,
copies have been sold (Never

Bernstein,

say “it sold 40,000,” warns
Mr. Atkinson, “for this is
English the Queen wouldn’t‘
like.’ ) He disapproves of too

many “whichs”, which—par-g

don-J mean, and thatw—re-I

minds of Sir Winston
Churchill who, upon an occa-

sion disapproving 0f the Eng-

lish construction of one of.
his subordinate’s reports

-sent him a terse and ironic

note, "This is. the kind of
arrant nonsense up with
which I will not put.” '

Mr. Atkinsc‘m was also a -.-;
’Ereat reporter, and he sneer
receiVed the Pulitzer prize

for. his correspondence fr “

jRussm. He is a number

other things which all add
to his being a great A“

Iof natwnal and natural re- -...' -.

J

(1‘.

\

 




K.1..«.\\. . {VA

Jr . ‘ a. . ,3 . . 7,
f...\ (5% (Hr... c.1443. -a...-........- .
II.’ ‘v(\. {7‘ (I... {I x (

mm <<DUUF>ZU m4ﬂmm4. Z>._._D_A. Z>mm>nICmmjm

.x. . .

. . \ u \- .,

Ex... ..
—

mﬂétcdcr‘gKK. (wt? KKT .rr. :K 1?...
K.

”Km/M-

K./.mp...2(...( 2. _. .. .x . 3 A .K

. (K. Ffo r r. <x....f.(.f.r nﬁ. .( f1»...
2... X, . I K ”.1. Kb ,

J C 4/; fl. r( K r Il-:.i..\.l.V.f.W

K. (5;? {YA MK; 0 cc
3

2|.

, . K .. air- /. . .. /.n .. . m... .Kj. . . .. .. ..

A K. a K; r ( c K K K/....K(x(w1(..ft_ Kin/Kr n /. (Kl...
r l

.x

t.
.. T. 3?.

. , « /.\u.
M. h . .
/ r (T /b.. Kg}

\ r zer/MF mm.

\(ﬂxﬁ. (L2./.br...t(. Xv»...
K
K

1

K... m. .......K. K Ware/K
. , .. .5.
9K .
.. b P... .( fr F C (fr P f... K

.7. SC K... CK K. ..( K.. (I.
K

..//b. K../.;Cr.K/.. {WK / “7%

 




I?

m/ .rw/x

.

. _. ‘ w _.. a
2..

. V . \ ., .C. .. w ,
MK «(Ix (Errr .v . . \. V .6 «<_((/.r.)§.f

,‘ ,.
{In

 




 

 

J 1

THE NEW YORK TIMES, THURSDAY, MAY 14, .1964.-

Mrs. Mary Lasker, head, of the Albert and Mary Lasker
Foundation, officiates at the awards ceremony. From left
are James Monahan; Lois Mattox Miller; Rep. Melvin R.

 

Albert. Lasker Public Serv-
ice Awards of $2,500 each.
were given yesterday to Rep—
resentative Oren Harris, Dem-
ocrat of Arkansas, and
Representative _ Melvin R.
Laird, Republican of Wiscon—
sin. They were cited for their
efforts ‘on behalf of public
health legislation.

Representative Harris is
chairmanof the House Inter-
astate . and Foreign Com-
merce Committee. Represen—

tative Laird is ranking Re—
publican member of the Bone
Subcommittee on Appropri'
ations for Health, Education
and Welfare. They are the
first recipients of the newly
established ax 'ard.

Senate Majority Leader
Mike Mansfield of Montana
was guest speaker at the
luncheon at the Sheraton-
East Hotel at which the Pub—
lic Service. and Lasker Medi—
cal Jonrnalism awards were

The New York Tmies' .
‘ Laird, Wisconsin Republican; Rep. Oren Harris, Arkansas?"
Democrat; Mrs. Lasker; Bill Burrus; Paul Cunningham,
and Gilbert Cant. Event was held at the Sheraton-East.

 

o The journalism

presented.

awards,
also for $2.500 each, went
to Bill Burrus of The Dallas
Times Herald for a series
on mental illness; Gilbert
Cant, medicine editor of
Time Magazine, for an‘ article
on surgery, and Paul Cun-
ningham for a series of shows
on mental retardation, on the
National Broadcasting - Com-
pany’s “Today” show.

A special citation was

given to Lois .
and James Monahan for an;

article in Reader’s Digest en

the health hazards of smok- I

in 0‘.
Dr. Howard‘A.

'Mattoié' Miller

ciate editor of the New York};

Times and a rehabilitation '
specialist, , presided. "

awards were 7
Mrs. Mary Lasker,‘ he'a’d * of,

the Albert andNMary LaSKCr

Foundation.

4—“

i
i

 

Rusk, asso- '

. , e-
presented; by ,

 




ADLER—e49-6744l

U. S. DEPARTMENT OF
HEALTH, EDUCATION, AND WELFARE
Public Health Service
National Institutes of Health
Division of Research Grants
Bethesda, Maryland 20014

FOR RELEASE TO PROFESSIONAL JOURNALS
Thursday, July 9, 196h

The Public Health Service, Department of Health, Education,
and Welfare, has announced a change in deadline dates for the re—
ceipt of applications for research grants. The new dates, effective
January 1, 1965, have been established to allow more time for staff
review of applications before they are presented to the non-Federal
advisory review panels.

The new deadlines are:

New and Supplemental Council/Committee Meeting
Applications

 

 

October 1 March
February 1 June-July
July 1 November

Renewal Applications Council/Committee Meeting

 

 

September 1 March
January 1 June-July
June 1 November
No deadline changes have been made for non-competing continuation

applications or for applications for other types of support.

####

 




 

 
  
    
    
  
 
  
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

/ '/.../
‘35 7 C A/TfR got/00L or V51.
[XPE/Q/Mfﬂ/TAZ MUM/41 PRODUC 71 ON E MébLCINE)
t:- ‘ r~
ff f“ ' —T/ office of?!“ ofﬁce office ..../ A if“
'2 ‘33:: 311:“! f‘gaafmzj run: mu! 11115 It“: M («OW
ma, \. \ 1’71: aw L— L—\—V—-—+:’;ZT' '
' r r.\ I _ A “arm 77;)!" \ :3 research "3‘7““ "Mr“ '73:": .1
‘37 ' «r: r
fair" "in?“ “mi“ W} Lab" Fig.3 3.33:" A?" '52 {LL/i," "’ [23L pep—~—
1,? “w”! l‘)’___. "I“: ”J '/""”’n __ / Corr/o’er -——>-
C/ean corr/a’ar k /r__________#:1 '9 C 8”” ‘ "'

”T'TJ '7“ 5“:

14/ “WC” 1 32%;“ ‘;\
HZ.“ * Wm" “1] _
macro/s Tn record’s i

'fwork V

(""7 4""‘1’7

“st0 00/ 7a/
, g, C: r m:

M

J;
r
\

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
  

 

 

 

 

 

’L .~. ¢ - I _; d07C.

_ 2/374 carr/q’or _ \ ’ A Lot/455”)?

: " ’ I

‘ ‘ / M a / (J fl 11 .

" ‘ 15‘sz 1—5:!” . ”x30 1 i

. , , , My § ,«W /\ / ! _/ '
i. I / ~_ M ' 4—— r co
1" >- "d/rﬁ/ corr/b’ar ——-->- 7 ‘K ' 1112/ W

    

 

 

 

 

 

 

1" \ \ . \ﬁtﬂ
w/p / a ’1" fuel _ {ml rem/97504 x- my militia: {
r an .. mm Siam c e/z‘gdmmf ’3‘“. ”Mi/V .
i‘ / / T *‘m y: H“ ’ 35W x ‘73:: {

I o , .

' 16:6de may mens ' ”’1" , fl ‘
a’e/‘i ﬂ“: 1.5"fo 5M slum; [alum] Ste—H6 um! ‘35; ~ ,
”:77 I2.“ C—ETWL—y‘: :2.“ ____..4L/ . . _ L®

Amﬂag; goons. N 11“,“ im ' J
4' .. ’ , / awf' _ I A
I .
1 Z (’csr a 86 Qécou’, @Ms f) L .- - 1 [5'1“ ,5“; mar

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
  
  

 

 

:3 ALE-'1 cm ‘10 FT ‘4’;le : au'ar A” ‘ Wig/4 f2;
SC '7 : rain: 1 1' 'rains.

:3 I

’ l‘
L \\-J-\\‘1L/’..LJ/—.LJI -LJ _L./ .'.J -...J m.—

l (

 

 

 

_ mg“ ( 3 41,.“ med.
‘ch’fchéh (QM/v45
é /

 

 

 




SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH 84110
PHONE 328-8366 ° TELETYPE 801-521-2651

04493 6'9-~,~f"¢"~1k((~£7

1.
I

(Jim .,.5 5%- 51K. 2;...“- 2

J 4,2,1

»’ ,r cI’ZUY'f'L-‘t'ﬁ , 2’ J '
{I _. .=_~____ ’ r. _ “T
e é vwé' 50' ‘~ ~C L (e... C 1:61' )( /59C: 3:}?! {’Z?“ (0“ng

I

/
0/

«,7 .41? a 4‘ ~ . - ’ ‘

)0 _‘ J ’ “:1“
L, 3a?“ 1:” 6.1.} ‘” . _, z ' = .: "‘ -' " c
d V ’ , -"_” I’ -4
‘ l) “’2 6 x K.

2;“ L’ (A. (4 _-£:. ,I.‘1 $( ."" ..~ . ,4, ‘j .
. v; v' z, ‘ _ / /‘I~“/ / /
\.- . [f {4/1" “/6 - V Cr 7 it 1/ .N‘ZV'Q
/ A ,x‘ _ ’

(f 1’,‘ ’)’\,\. (.27.
;./({:I ‘2 I: k: .l/’ L‘CZ

4’}...

m I r
e. 5L\,(: [(LA 7 fr V. A“, / w t
116”” / {1L1}, /' gitldrx. ’ZLC F

c. (52 Luz" (78‘1’1CQH 3;". ( (I... '5' /:" 243/1/ , /’ / .
- .. -2 4 4 we . 7/ / Jew: / cg; mJ' -=’
,1“ . t. , CV ., é(
}

2 1’1“ f. L. / ,./‘ . x m ,: .- 9., f, {I ‘ .
“ “‘2 /X k A: /7W/ 254224 /J
4 /

JV“, Q? "I" 51...; J" /h‘f‘( 1': .

I, H /
fl?" (' Cal; (Lus— // (“J-237%.“,

,m. s,
/

e 7W u K c“ { . (5’?er (if

3(5‘2‘441' /7"\-g ' {i} 7:../ q

1"

-\ ,
4.4 ’5‘
L (It (:44...

'7‘+- 9‘
z’t‘z’dle’

' i ('7‘ L“ ‘1'- ’ v.3?»- ( n-v Lad“

Reservations mqv be made through an} HILTON RESERVATIONS OFFICE/your own travel agent) or directly to the [fate].

 




2-63

Cf Cw CLIH~€(( (37% ”7"" ‘1’“‘1‘7 /M(CQ1 I: J. 6 t ”x / / Aid/1.44 {Ly [-er /

. / ﬂ , . , fl
/ 01/ CL, /kS‘ / / /CK’—é / (3’\ b Cj’L7 [4; (1 UL"- (,Lhw‘m ”"LL ‘(Z ix. 4' /4\

J
. /Aé/’b~3 [w/ﬂzk "7 1%". has. l"

[5), ,{g'z,~{ J-{e c: v/

)7 ,
'1" / ' ~”
.7 r: .. / 7/ .- .
/ .6 l/ ck "V\_(' 4 .~/ (I .r‘f‘" 7 /\ ALI/é.“ it:

I

CZ/a 7’{ CA 7 ‘5' J/lcCC ’1 x’v/‘L “(Ex 4/
/ . /

gnu/Bf a5;

5:59“; 13‘“, L/ 7 5:(/ (£7! 5%:
ZZZ/d»

p...—
3

5 2/ .I__
v M /K (’ LC‘CEJACLS' ,

A e ‘ If: ‘
z"'\-—~-L*"L7 LXI/W7 . ' 66C

1 “'2. 4" I I .
d7 /”\/Lct ( 5" Mi , " 7 , " , ..
0C ‘ ( L7 C" at C? AX ( C'J‘C W'/ J» ("CR
5 /’

L. {7 ' o , . I
_ LKJJJ‘ (M317 4‘: 27* LL?‘ i)? Ki“? [7"

z' ,5 x 1 CV". ‘
(“/0 ‘ 1-5,; “6 / c 31““? ,
56-215:

6% (A? M C? é7 fig/C? ’" "4' '6 W'X 5726.5». c in: c; 5 v1“ /
/

KCVL/gjéﬁiy yé/ ,~ _, ‘ - . .
- / Ax ﬂu“ «mg/C: r/ J axe/gm

“I

O

J _, 7 ‘_.
/ ﬂ/', . V ’.' 2‘ ~;. 4 f/‘i?
f--\ 5.? C-"CL. 'v 4 z- ’ 5'6») 2.; C ' . “7 \L' f ,-
/ ‘L / Y a. L 4, ”Y (1,1 \g -X // L: Cré‘s(’
.'”) _ I ‘1’.» ,‘p ' . / 5- . 1 , ( 1/ ‘/
/ C 5/0 / /({ (4'1 C (L L ‘ h “k "- I 91.x "1sz (Jaw/F 7/"? X
' ' ' 4' rt...

/ , - ﬂ ,- ‘7'"‘K ,/ L
K. WV“ “ Z». A"? Lwdﬁc 7w: '23”va ,/ $.15,“ 5.1.6122 L; 6 I

L“ 73° 12 I» C (4“ ‘ Q ,. , -- - (.5: , ,.
’7' N (4 L K LL"; v.6: / o/ng . - /Ql7 Kai/’9'" -Z'chy £73,.”
‘/

at {’5' {Neg

,4.’

'7“ 69‘1- Alt/16‘ «2k

I . \ x J
// a0“? 4/ / 4/5 a "Law, (3" J’C‘C”. (I

/
m. 7:74 Q4 I'E;/’C<’cu 'Z/AQC / 461,677 6; {bi/A /J: M5“ .1752:wa K"
/
/ ’ ‘
A447 Cé/é .

/ Add/51x / IQI‘LR?" «11"?sz ,

J (_ s3 / ,79‘44‘ “6/11": L m; ./

ﬂ
/’ V ,7 '3 , n ”‘1‘“ ’
/ (17%;? 75’ ? CM 8.2% [fix J 11-17 C [C-}’ “724.77 ’24, tax-“LKT /</Cx"

.r ﬂ Carl/bx.“ ?¢¢Vl /(NJ% / M&L L‘fi’é; 71 «71 6% é/(R
. I”

' 'th7
”/60? Cum 5: “/62“? VZ‘MASA’LGJ ’ {73‘ - ‘2‘7 iii-6% [arm‘ ({'
/C’ '7 k t “A:

3237 (Z: 5 OCEA-m’

(L. S / ma / Q7?» Cg

. . ' 7 \ 14 1 ﬂ 3,)!
‘5 ‘9 ? S“ (%:-;J/ 7\///i 4‘ /uti~¢/é7 *’ I 1 " . ii" a" -- ./ LJK/ZZ‘Z'ZQ?{

6] 6M

{CN’EL‘j ~54 /’(?/01’(4L61 '4 "/[jw céL... ‘51“ch c773; ; UMkEZ': C(‘é‘;

Kw?” 42' P 5.1. g.» '4‘th
/Q»

w .~(:¢‘7;/2\¢\t“ ‘ J
’2 C’lx

 




’5me %W/

”J":- r/ '
L; . ’L 4— I1“. (,f

.r’fJ/L ,‘

"/41: 51/131,?- C/(4 ‘4 ‘

‘51.,» C’le. g“ ‘

0/: )k.

p/LM— (=(l
/

Z 0»
{-é‘lzgv’u:
«’1! v» «21/22:»?
:>/
(3, «(L

W1

Ara
/‘

Jiffix ‘1

d 472 ‘L c.3'(

/
C: (- “wk/(6:;

/

I
_V., - x
.. ./ ‘

“AC/‘76:}

\S if {K/
/

was :2 ~21”

, a.
,1

5h" [an RV, <41;
f \

L/I x3 L (y’é/

(,5.‘
L

{"i’LN. 6:'((

Air/{1

7: 6-7‘ 6/1"“:‘4’:
f}
/ £4». 3‘

\~

‘ ",v. ,-' ,1? g
A1— “ /’.' " e‘ I
I \' 1
f 5 IA

ﬂééamd

L, 1 (J‘- OWL-)Jé-w’é 9““

{Jr-67:78 cg 3
_,-’ ‘Zp‘bg, ) £1.17 / k/I/L OTC.

J“

(ﬁn/x C”(

/, , ’ .,
CPD; '5’ 57'» (LI/K 7(3“

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH
PHONE 328-8366 -

84110
TELETYPE 801—521-2651

63'4“
/ /

/S’

753x

{/2 J‘

LIA ”(V

7

- I

.+ «a :- ‘ ’4'
. c. 1’ 3 4 6117A 7am L2? 54/

VJ’LL A .4. (I: 7" c ( é’vﬁui
Keg“

(

/¢1“cf'(€~

mnk°C2l9k7 // / 142:“:
&;L‘(

‘\

/'/l I

(/9’»/ LAC/A /J‘
7 /

:1?“ .A C’é: .

{fl/(3 ---- 7‘
c L /1’.;."/ 2/) LR. 62/9, (-

ﬂag/2.772%

A . "
g./¢_{\

43w. ,

":'/L: i (- C:~{' ’ .4 im“ C‘y'ﬂ'( 1‘

Adz“
( JZC

// ’C 5.5 ("KZ7
2:4

(41%.
N

cm)?

5/3,.

~-

0}” CL, ‘

i,

./. /:/7(;—:“ jl‘a
r-jjfr’s 1% /C‘ 7 (‘1‘: (“W"T‘i/

{KL c"< ‘Zf

/

K 7‘
cs. (56’4“ch ‘ f
I

Reservations may be made through an} HILTON RESERVATIONS OFFICE, your own travel agent) or dz'rec/{y t0 the [fate].

 




.2 a- \) 4.x 1} \3, 1.7.}
\ H . .. 1.... .. a. a...
f ... I

C.‘ 1‘

scam“? c ; $0030.; 5

 




 




 




80 KNOLLS CRESCENT
NEW YORK 63. NEW YORK
PHONE KI 3-2633

Mrs. Christine Stevens, President,
Animal Welfare Institute,

22 East 17th Street,

New York, N. Y. 10003

Dear Mrs. S‘evens=

A member of ours living in his District, received from Senator Macheil
iitchell, a bundle of his campaign literature and a plea that she vote
for him. She replied very, very briefly - "I shall vote against you.
Remember the Hatch-Metcalf bill.” That was all.

The very next day she received a letter from him, copy enclosed. She
had gone to see him and so had I when the bill was pending in 1952 but
he voted for it just the same, with the excuse that he had to do what
”his conscience dictated".

I have suggested that she send him your Information Report of January—
February, 196h, on the back page of which you say: "AMI representatives
have seen a new York State Health Department inspector approve (and
even eulogize) the condition of a roomful of dogs, ne of which had
ripped open his abdominal incision so that vital organs emerged”. She
also is sending him the ESUS report last Fall of the farms in upState
haw York where these poor creatures are sent to die or survive with

no post-operative care whatever.

It occurs to me that M . Mitchell m y call you up. if he does, I
r2

want you to know about all his promises and Big Talk. Uf course, I
know he has no authority whatever to make any demands on the health
Commissioner.

Yours sincerely,

Z190}; ray ”@3ng

i T9

 




 

OOCdOUbarn Sheet metal0.0...OO0..OOOOOOOOOOOOOOCOOOOOO0.0.

CUSTOM INSTALLATIONS

 

We made this custom installation of holding cages for large
dogs in the medical center of a leading hospital in the Los
Angeles area. These cages are constructed of cold rolled
steel, all welded, coated on all surfaces with an epoxy coat-
ing that is impervious to the attack of claws or teeth. Not
one scratch or mark after ten months of use.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Each cage is 36x36x36. The partitions between cages are
hinged and latched the same as the front gates. This allows
exercise space for the animals by providing 2, 3 or 4 spaces.
Some of the partitions are solid and some are bars.All floors
are sloped forward to a trough that is drained to one point
and into a disposal unit under the floor.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The troughs are flushed automatically every 30 minutes. It f
is never necessary to pick up fecal matter. The smooth epoxy ”‘ mm” .
floors let the attendant pull it into the trough with a squeege

and it is flushed away. The disposal unit is wired to come on

at the same time the troughs are flushed. An inspection tour

of this facility can be arranged upon request.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




doubarn sheet metal

CAGES

SINGLE RABBIT CAGE D-L-IB

 

 

   

SERVICE PAN

 

 

.-
g.
‘—
—
~
L-
.-
b

.JL.__IL__JL
ﬁr‘ﬁr—‘WF

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

FU LL LENGTH

PIANO HINGE

( I .
STAINLESS STEEL
PERFORATED FLOOR

 

 

 

 

SINGLE PIECE PERFORATED DOOR
16 GAUGE

. I

 

 

HOPPER TYPE FEEDER & WATER PAN

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

RABBIT CAGE
D-L-18
and Dol/y Rack D-L-78-R

 

 

This rabbit cage is designed for animals to be used in long term programs. It is sturdily constructed. The
sides and back are of solid stainless steel 5” above floor with all sides inset so that excreta goes through
the floor and into catch pan.

The floor is 20 gauge perforated stainless steel, 9/16” squares on “/16” centers. This type of floor is smooth
and comfortable for the animals feet and is 70% open. The 9716” squares with only 143” in between offer
no surface whatever for fecal matter to lodge and build up. The flat surface of a perforated metal floor
makes cleaning no problem at all compared to a wire mesh or hardware cloth floor with hundreds of
crevices to hold filth and germs. All surfaces are chemically deburred.

The floor is formed to slide in a track and kept in place by the closed door. The catch pan is removable
under the door which is designed to cause all excreta to go into the catch pan.

The door is fitted with a removable hopper type feeder and a water dispenser. The feeder is designed so
that the rabbit must always eat food from the bottom as it is released. it holds a 3 day supply. The water pan
maintains a 1/2” level at all times. These both snap into place in the door so that the rabbit cannot dis-
lodge them.

The door is constructed of one piece of 16 gauge solid metal 1” x 1” openings perforated in upper half
and hung on a full length piano hinge. it is fitted with a slip proof bolt type latch.

The upper part of this cage is of galvanized material. The sides and back are of 1” x 1” square openings
perforated. The top is of 22 gauge steel and is fitted with a fold flat handle so that each cage can be used
as a transport cage when removed from the rack.

In this and many of our other cages we recommend a combination of 8/8 and galvanized metal in order
to keep cost at a lowerJevel. it is our opinion that the only place stainless steel is actually needed is in the
floor and service pan or other surfaces that come in contact with excreta.

 

 

 




doubarn sheet metal

    

CAGES

2 COMPARTMENT RABBIT CAGE UNIT
DL-18-D

 

T

s"
<
a"
!

l

\{J

  
 

 

1+

   

   
  
    
 
     
        
     

         
    
 
 

 

 

.’
.0

’Q

Q

W
0‘29.

0

if.

(ﬁt
. M‘
’1..-

Q'

.Q
:9,
/
\‘Q
Q)
.I I

Q
I

"i .
't
‘:Q\Q:'AVA".\\“‘

.9,
.Q
Q
9o
950
9/4 .
.I \“x " ‘
. ac
. 0) 1‘
.0}
0;.(9 . ‘
M

Q,

s‘

\
9"."
Q

,9

Q
Q,
\
Q
. [(9
o
9
0‘
.Q
't

    
 

Q,

\Q
.3".

«a

 

‘Q

Q)
'6,
Q
. :9"
5.

Q

Q

9Q
Q,

Q‘
Q
"\Q
Q: ‘
.\.
\
‘3
Q
.Q

 
   
 

Q ,
c"
\
Q .
QoQ,‘ ,.
,.Q
to)

         
 
   
  

Q
~;\ .
Q
.Q

i‘
i
'9

One piece floor and sides, 6” solid sides #304 3/8 31" .‘33‘:”¥:
24 Ga. Entire floor area perforated 1/2” squares "
on % centers. Open area sides and back, 3/16
squares on 1” centers, 18 Ga. top—solid metal.
Door perforated openings —— 16 Ga. — full length
hinge — lock center — feeder and-water arrange-
ment each door.

‘0‘}
f it

Q}
t3:

,s,

?

   
 

 

There is no woven or welded mesh wire in this cage. All open
surfaces are perforated. This offers a smooth easy to clean surface

and is more comfortable for the animal, “WM .- ,. . _ III/”T

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

16 GAUGE DOOR

 

 

 

 

 

 

, I

HOPPER TYPE FEED :32??? steel apron under each row drains to one
AND WATER PAN 0 y rack and into down spout to floor drain.

 

This method of cleanin

g requires a minimum of
Iabon

Approx, 15 minutes per rack of 24 rabbits.

10

 




OOOdOUbarn Sheet metal0.00.00.00.00...OOOOIOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO

 

 

CAGES DL-18-D & DL-18-DR DOLLY RACK

 

 

 

 

2 COMPARTMENT RABBIT CAGE

This cage is designed for the laboratory that is working with large numbers of rabbits. The daily cleaning
process is accomplished in a fraction of the time normally required. The cages are suspended in the rack
four to six inches above a stainless steel apron that drains to the center and to one end then into a down
spout. The attendant rolls the twenty-four cage rack to a floor drain and in 15 minutes can completely clean
and flush all excreta away.

 

The floor and bottom half of the cage is one sheet of 22 gauge Type 304 2 B Finish stainless steel. The
floor pattern is perforated, 9/16” square holes on ”/16” centers thus providing a flat surface that is 70%
open and free of all the crevices that are in a woven or welded mesh wire floor. This type of floor is also
more comfortable for the animals feet.

The upper half is 13/16” squares on 1” centers and here again you have the advantage of a smooth crevice
free surface that is 85% open. All surfaces are chemically deburred.

The doors are one piece of 16 gauge sheet steel perforated openings and fitted with a feeder and water
pan. Hinged on a full length piano hinge and fitted with a non slip safety latch.

We can make a permanent installation of the racks and install an automatic flushing arrangement that will
keep all excreta flushed away as it falls or as already described, mount them in a dolly rack, whichever

way will best serve your operations.

Cages are easily removed from rack for autoclave or cage washer.

11

 




 

 

 

 

 

OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOCOOOOOOOOOOOOOOdOUbarn Sheet meta|...

RABBIT

NESTING

and

GROWING
CAGE

D-L-18-B

The features offered in this cage are for the people who are breeding rabbits
in the Vivarium. The nesting compartment fits into one end and is easily removed.
It is complete in itself. It has a hinged top and the access opening for the doe is
equipped with a guillotine door to completely close the cage if necessary. It can
be placed in one end of the large cage through the top and fastened in place to
allow access for the doe to attend her litter. The floor of the box is 3” below the
opening which will keep the kittens from tumbling out.

The main cage has a perforated Stainless Steel floor and a Stainless Steel service
pan. These are removable from the side of the cage and will function with the
nesting cempartment in place. The extra length feeder and water pan are placed

low enough to allow easy access for the kittens when they‘are large enough to eat.

 

 

12

 

P__—<__.~_’«—&

 




 

 

OOOdOUbarn Sheet metal0.0..OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOCOOOOOOO

CAGES

MONKEY AND CAT CAGES
D-MC-9

 

We offer this cage for monkeys or cats.

Feeder and water arrangements are interchangeable to accommodate either animal and are designed to use for
holding cages or for metabolism. The resting bars for the monkeys are removable and can be replaced With a board
for cats.

The eight cage unit shown here is 6’6” overall length x 26" wide x 5'10” overall height. It is mounted on 5” casters
and is easy to move from room to room. Cages easily removed from rack and each is equipped with handles. Overall
size of each cage is 18” wide x 24" high x 24” deep, bottom is open when floor and pan are removed so it can be
be sterilized in your cage washer.

MONKEY TRANSPORT CAGE MONKEY TRAINING CAGE
D-MT-14 D-MT-14T

 

The transport cage attaches to any of our monkey cages. It is of sturdy construction with a guillotine type door.
D-MT-14. . .

It is also available with bars spaced on 2” centers on opposite end so it can be attached for use as a training cage.
D-MT-14T. . . . .
We offer a sleeping box D~MS-8, the same size and that attaches the same way. It IS entirely closed and gunllotlne
door can be locked in place at any height to offer privacy for animals to sleep.

13

 

 

 




 

 

0.0.0....OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOC...dOUbarn Sheet metal...

SQUEEZE TYPE MONKEY CAGE
D-Mc-26 ST

 

 

14

 

Our squeeze type Monkey Cage is an example of
the design, engineering and craftsmanship that
are characteristic of Doubarn Cages. The all Stain-
less Steel construction offers years of mainte-
nance free use. All interior corners are coved to
facilitate cleaning and excreta to go into service
pan.

All open areas are bars spaced so as to prevent
contact between cages. Space of bars are op-
tional as are the areas of the cage you require
open or closed.

The latches are designed to securely confine the
animal and are placed so as to be out of reach
from the interior of the cage.

The feeder and watering pan are attached to the
front of the cage, one on either side of the guillo-
tine door, thus making it unnecessary to remove
them to attach the transfer or training cage. They
are made so they can be reversed to close the
openings when desired.

The resting bars are attached to the back on a
hinge and fold down as the “squeeze” is drawn
forward. As the “squeeze” is moved back the

resting bars regain their horizontal position and
lock in place.

The squeeze assembly is removable out of the
back for cleaning. The Service pan is removable
from the front.

A metabolism tray that replaces the catch pan is
available for this cage.

The animal space in the cage shown here is 26 x
26 with 28” height. This cage is available in any
size to accommodate any primate you are using.

 

 

 




OOOdOUbarn Sheet metal0.0.00.0...0.00000000000000000000000

 

DMC-26-ST

 

The floor and the back are made in one unit of 3/16
bars spaced on 3A1” centers.

By drawing the floor forward after attaching the
transfer or training cage the animal is forced
gently but surely into it. This is accomplished
without having to touch the animal. This method
of handling has proved to be of great value to
the people whose work requires a minimum of
handling and excitement.

 

 

MONKEY COLONY CAGE - D-MC-19 7

This cage is in use in a number of the State Insti-
tutions and is of extra heavy construction. The
animal space is 30x30x36 high. Resting bars can
be inserted in several places and is used mostly for
colony and growing cage uses. These are made to
fit one over one, or can be used in dolly racks for
4 or 6 cages. Solid metal inserts are available for
use between cages for isolation.

 

 




doubarn sheet metal

CAGES

RODENT CAGES

 

Our Deluxe all stainless steel rodent
cage. Used successfully by several of the , ,,
Los Angeles area laboratories. It has a -' "x
beveled front with a “lift up” door to ~ ‘ H
give easy access to the animals. It has ’
a removable Feeder that fits into the top
of cage and a cradle to hold the water
bottle. Top and beveled front of stainless
steel expanded metal. Card holder on
door that is fitted with full length piano
hinge. The bottom of cage is open and
fits into 11/4" deep litter pans. Available
l in any size for rats, mice, hamsters, etc.

 
 

.. ,, . ,.
"o‘acaoao.‘..§ M”:
Q .

  

 

 

Box-type nesting and stacking cage con-
structed of stainless steel and made for
use in laboratories that run short term
programs and from time to time need
to store cages. This type of cage requires
very little space. Openings in top only.
Feeder and water bottle in top.

'llllll‘ll

  

  

- 'lll""ll

The collapsible rodent cage
that is available in sizes for
rats or mice. This cage is
also designed for uses in
laboratories that find it
necessary to store cages
from time to time. The TOD
is slotted for ventilation and
has a feed well that is made
to hold the water bottle. It
is made so one will nest
into the other and reqmre
a minimum of space for
storage. The litter tray IS
also tapered to nest. The
sides are put together With
piano hinge corners and WIll
fold flat when bottom and
top are removed. One hun-
dred of these cages can be
stored in a 30"x30"x30"
space.

 

 

16

 

 

 




OOCdOUbarn Sheet metalOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOCOOOOOOOOO.

 

 

RODENT CAGES

 

An economy cage for rats or mice. Gal-
vanized metal with hardware cloth top
and a stainless steel pan. Comes apart
in three sections to facilitate cleaning.
Made to use on shelf or to fit into
racks. Feeder recessed in top.

 

 

Hanging type colony cage for rats or mice. Made of galvanized
material. Hardware cloth front and bottom. To be used in
hanging type rack. Feeder attaches to front, and water bottle
1 attached to front with spring or in wire rack.

-%_

 

Same as cage described above, but smaller to accommodate
fewer animals. Same type of rack and same feeders and water
bottle.

 

17

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

      
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

                                

          

                                     

 

 

  

 

 

 

 

 

(I)
“J .1
o g ’9 8 LE,
0
: E g 8 3 E: 8 9;
— U) o E 8 (7) "D 5
CU ‘0 u‘ m g '1 .1 ' 49 _
*" é’ 5 § 3 E s. 3 .0 5
OJ ‘5’ i w 2 £3 E E 3 5
E E is j c? 0 LL 8 '5 3 3)
’f x f 7. ': O z 2;; 8 :5
._ V ,) A < Lu "" .
.H 2 g 5 z 5 2 8 5 § 5 :6 E
Q) 8 ad 5 E ‘L O E E 3 U "’ '2
a» Q ~ if c» 32‘;
f, I“ a 5‘9” g E
a 8 8 E E a) 8
D Z (D 9— 96 >5
: < m 2 E -c' 8 2
.D m ‘ —J (D _J E .0.) o g:
i , E 2 :2 8 = 8 :7,
3 > I a} ('7) z o ‘2 m .22)
o z a .9 U) E 5 g 3 o
'U m [I9 - I. ,1 "..b./. g 8 (U Q. 8 2-;
0 -' ' .I Z — (D 4-1 a)
= 3 '-  = 9999 I
,. ., . W, m ,L
: 5 . 999999999990 9" ta 3 8 3” 3‘s
: o E 99 99999999999999 9 1/ i E g E f; g
: o .. .1 "-._,n¢<em/>—m M j 2 9 5 a e .02
° 0: \ 99999999999999 9’ 9.9 ‘ as a: :2 m a
: 0 4 999999999999 9,9099 9999 0.090 ‘. 5% ;
° - n. \ 999908999 W. NW 99%“ L- 35 .8 w
: n_ 9999999991999 "99990 99 909090 9009990999: é’ w L a
: E g 3 2/ 99999999999999 mm MMMotamy‘ 33435
- < O E “5 9999999999999’99999 3 5 3 o
: |.|.I U E ,9 9999/ 99 W N / mzvmawmvzw ‘ 8 <v E 3;
. N L E “9999 “/9“ 99/ L'wmmo ‘ °‘ 39% ‘° ‘°
' z z “- 25 9999/9 49/ /. '9/\,/_-/9:o:@.'4'14'owm \ \ g o J: 3 a?
: .. o a g 9’9 9 999 99 99 9/9.. LI/ﬂoi'éél'é’e‘w \ ‘ x Q 3‘ 8 {*3 9L
. 3 a 3 a 99/ 9 999/999 9!/_'_A_’...’¢.'4'¢é’4'/_..’/49’ e 2 w o D
. s: w 3 9/99/ 99-999yggmw’ \ U, 8 ‘5 L93 ‘9
. a D S U) [Q / / .' A 1/ /ﬂ!!!j’éwgoy ‘ “ “J H_ ~+— _ (I;
' 3 m w 999/99 , 9 mgggmv \ \ I 0 e '0 x
' \“9 999 99 ”III/‘7' 0 «>020
0 go In a, w/ A , ;\_,,:_.__._._. \ x :5 <0 2 7, S
. q '2 a 9/929wgzgvgm1 \ \ L; 9r w c
3 2 :3 E ,9. 99 may!!! \ m H 8 13.-
. 9.x amp!!! » X m 3 +5 t g
"_.'_--__.I_.__/_‘_ Ll. Lt-Hc—g
a AVI'IVA‘WA‘V/AV <0 3.3 >
-__’_ A- V 9 a) c m
a) _ ._ 93
w : .._. a“ 13% ‘°
.. _ ’. j 3 O E 3
. ‘1 éf'gé’
C
C

 

 




 

 

 

OOOdOUbarn Sheet metal0.00...O00......OOOOOOOOOCOOOOOOOOOO

GUINEA PIG CAGES

 

We offer Guinea Pig Cages in many sizes and for many uses in working with Pigs. We have attempted to build a
“standard” cage but have found that one that is “just right” for one laboratory needs to be entirely different for
another. Therefore, we offer this item on a custom basis.

 

The other colony cage, #D-P-33A, an all Stainless Steel two compartment unit to house animals in bedding and does
not have the removable floors and service pan as in the other unit. These will fit the same rack as D-P-33.

This single animal unit, D-P-19, has a pan for litter and if needed an insert to keep the animal above floor for
metabolic experiments. All parts are separate to facilitate the cleaning and sterilizing process. These are made to
fit into your rodent racks or on a shelf.

 

19

 

 

 




0.0000000000000000...dOUbarn SheEt matal

 

NOTES

 

 

20

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

OOOdOUbarn Sheet metal0.0...0.0.0.000000000000000CCOOOOOOO

CAGES

 

doubarn sheet metal
8631 Avalon Blvd., Los Angeles
Telephone PL 8-1184

 

 

 

 

 




0.. OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO0.0.00.0... dOUbarn Sheet metal...

 

CAGES
”EM ‘ PAGE
Small Animal Dryer .................................... 3
Small Animal Bath Tub .................................. 3
Dog & Cat Cages —- Veterinary
Stainless Steel .................................... 4
Galvanized with Stainless Steel Floors ................. 5
All Galvanized .................................... 5
Kennel Installations ................................ 6
Medical Research Installations ....................... 7
RABBIT CAGES —— VIVARIUM
Single Animal Cages ............................... 8
Double Compartment Cages ......................... 10
Racks for Rabbit Cages .......................... 9 & 11
Breeding & Growing Cage ........................... 12
MONKEY CAGES — VIVARIUM
Monkey and Cat Cages ............................. 13
I N D EX Transport ....................................... 13
Training ......................................... 13
Sleeping Box ..................................... 13
Squeeze Type ................................ 14 & 15
Colony .......................................... 15

RODENT CAGES —— VIVARIUM

Bevel Front ...................................... 16
Box Type ........................................ 16
Collapsible ...................................... 16
Shelf Type ....................................... 17
Hanging Type .................................... 17
Colony Hanging Type .............................. 17

GUINEA PIG CAGES—VIVARIUM
Double Compartment Colony .................... 18 & 19
Single Animal Metabolic ............................ 19

NOTES ............................................ 20

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

doubarn sheet metal

 

 

 

 

ATTENTION,

On the following pages we offer cages, kennels, dryers, for

the practicing veterinarian. We offer cages, dolly racks,
feeders, watering devices and certain other equipment forthe
“Animal Care” people who are responsible for the function of
the Vivarium in the research laboratory. We also offer various
types of cages and equipment for the breeder who supplies

the laboratory animals.

In all instances we have attempted to create cages and other
equipment that will provide maximum use and require a
minimum of care as to cleaning and maintenance.

We find it extremely difficult to standardize cages since the
things that are being done in one center differ so widely from
the work in another. For that reason we offer our services as

a custom manufacturer. We will be happy to modify any of

our models to better suit your program or we will produce

any type of cage or other equipment to your specifications.

Prices for any item in this book and for any custom item are
available on request.

THANK YOU —

doubarn sheet metal

 

 

 

 

 




 

doubarn sheet metal...

 

A

WORD
OF
TRIBUTE

to the American animal care panel and the people it represents

 

The exchange of opin-
ions and ideas in the care of laboratory animals is
the greatest contributing factor in expediting the

work of the Scientist and laboratory technician.

As a cage manufacturer we offer our service to create
and develop new and different types of housing to

conform with your program.

We are happy to be a member of your team.

 

 

ANIMAL CARE PANEL

This is to certify that

 

 

 

 

Hr. Thomas Hartsook
lZlb W. 109 P1.
Los Angeles bb, Calif.

IS AN INDIVIDUAL MEMBER
IN GOOD STANDING FOR THE YEA
ENDING DECEMBER 3|. I963 EX

 

 

E ECR ARY -‘

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

doubarn sheet metal

 

 

 

 

SMALL ANIMAL-DRYER D-D11

This revolutionary Animal Dryer is the 100% safe drying method
for dogs and cats. At the mere touch of a dial, a powerful and
evenly regulated air flow gives you safe quick drying action,
leaves the coat soft, radiant, and manageable.

ABSOLUTE SAFETY . . .

Entire operation controlled by Time Clock - Maximum 1 hr.

CONTROLLED HEAT . . .
Thermostat with temperature range from 50° to 200° furnished
by a Kilbury 50,000 BTU. heater.

ECONOMICAL . . .

Operates on natural gas for real economy.

A TIME SAVER...
Blower that delivers 3000 F.P.M. Will dry heavy coated dogs in
20 to 30 minutes. Short hair dogs and cats in 10 to 15 minutes.

EASY TO CLEAN . . .

Has removable gates, grill floor, air outlet plates and clean
out trap in bottom duct.

REMOVABLE PARTITION . . .

Can accommodate 2 medium size dogs such as Cockers or Kees.
1 large dog such as Collie, Shepherd, etc.

STURDY CONSTRUCTION . . .

Heavy gauge galvanized sheet steel. Full vision steel gates,
welded construction, copper, nickel, chrome plated. Non slip
safety latches.

ONE YEAR UNCONDITIONAL GUARANTEE . . .

/T’S THE MOST WORK SAVING, TIME 8A V/NG ANIMAL DRYER EVER OFFERED

GROOMING ROOM
BATH TUB D-T5

Overall length 6 feet. The tub is 48” long x 20”
wide x 20" deep. Drainboard on one end is 24"
x 20". 8" splash on one end and back, formed
to provide a 3” shelf full length.

Constructed of 14 gauge galvanized steel or 16
gauge stainless steel. Sturdy legs with adjust-
able bullet feet.

 

 




C.0.0.0.0....OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOdOUbarn Sheet metal...

 

STAINLESS STEEL CAGE D-19-V

 

 

 

 

This cage is constructed throughout of 22 gauge Type 304 - 28 Finish Stain-Steel. The
top, bottom, sides and front are formed of one piece. There are no seams or crevices.
The back is welded in and filled with an epoxy cement that is 90% metal.

This cage is the ultimate in design and fabrication. It is fabricated and installed with the
same meticulous care that has been a tradition with our organization since 1936 in the
production of fine Stainless Steel restaurant fixtures and equipment.

As in restaurant installations all unexposed surfaces are undercoated. This not only has
vermin repellent qualities but controls condensation and offers a measure of sound
control.

In addition to this all cages are encased with extra dense fiberglass bats to make them
completely sound proof.

We offer this cage as a custom item so far as sizes are concerned. Give or take a few
inches on any cage dimension and we will provide an installation that will exactly fit the
space in your hospital that you have allotted for cages.

4

 

 




 

 

doubarn sheet metal

 

GALVANIZED

 

 

 

CAGES

with

STAINLESS STEEL
FLOORS

D-3-V

 

The cage that has been gaining steadily in popularity since we first offered it in 196T It is'constructed
of 22 gauge galvanized steel except the floor which is. 22 gauge Type 394 - 28 Finish Stainless Steel,
formed in one piece 5” deep and welded in. The welded seam is filled With an epoxy cement and dressed
smooth. All unexposed surfaces are heavily undercoated. This adds years of life to the galvanized steel by

controlling condensation.

These cages are fitted with the same gates, and the installation completely soundproofed with fiberglass
bats the same as described on the opposite page for the Stainless Steel cages.

This type of cage is offered at approximately 1/3 less than the all Stainless Steel cage.

It seems to be the opinion of many veterinarians that Stainless Steel in the floor of a cage is the only place
it is actually needed and thus are able to keep cost at a lower figure for this commodity.

cted of all galvanized material. These have all the features of the other cages

We also offer ca es constru ,
g 1/2 the cost of the all Stainless Steel cages.

and are available at approximately

5

 




OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOdOUbarn Sheet metal ...

WALL TO WALL CAGE INSTALLATIONS

One of our D-19-V all Stainless Steel installations.
Wall to wall in a 16 foot room. The bottom Row has
one 48 inch cage with a removable partition and
four 36” cages. The cages in the upper rows are
all 24" wide. Those in the center row are 24” high
and the top row 21" high. Total —- 21 cages. By
inserting the partition in the 48" cage this provides
an extra cage if needed. ,

This shows our galvanized cages with Stainless

Steel floors D-3-V. Here we installed 26 cages in a

20 foot room. Wall to wall and 3 rows high. In the
bottom row are two 48" cages and four 36” cages. D
The cages in the upper rows are all 24” wide and

21" high. By inserting the partitions in the 48”

cages two more cages are provided if needed.

The cages in this ward are D-7-V all galvanized
material. We use all 22 gauge or heavier in this
construction. All unexposed surfaces are under-
coated to control the effect of dampness and
condensation. This prolongs the life of galvanized
metal to the point that it is of the utmost impor-
tance to consider when purchasing cages.

 

FOR ALL 3 TYPES OF CAGES DESCRIBED HERE WE OFFER AT NO
ADDITIONAL COST THE FOLLOWING OPTIONAL FEATURES:
Any type of I. D. card holders.

Tracks to support resting boards in cages to be Used for cats.

All cages 42” wide or larger can have 2 gates hinged in center and remov
excellent cage for surgery recovery for larger dogs.

All cages 42” wide or larger can be fitted with a removable partition thus providing an extra cage

able. This provides an

when needed.

 

 

 

6

 




SC I E: N CE: 121.]:411732:

 

 

 

    

 

 

     

   

 

 




  
 

 

    

 
   
       

 

l

- ”Ial 0“ Ida --I;I‘ : na I i

'annel

    

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

convent 3...“, on mark : . C an. 2 -”".n' l
#:4! - . \l
m 7| g
................. 1/”)
\
‘\I‘
”—2
/’{)
....
ﬁ 5' ﬂ
4
...........
E (— - ,,_._. 3
(€22-
dillnfj'ﬁ'ri‘)
-3
4;
£54 r:
g)
Q»
d1: ‘3’
’T’I—ﬁ’.ﬂﬂ ”,1 —:_-,:¥::'
#17“; 1;”?
é
é.
,_‘ _,_ .
(f,_ ;?

records
g»
full scale é

on 80mg; 2

(’5’.

The new portable Mark 280 doubles resolution of traces without sacrificing f1equech iesponse! And
you get instantaneous rectilinear ink records of unparalleled accuracy and clarity. Forced ﬂuid writing
presents traces, at frequencies to 35 cps full scale, on low cost chart paper. Dual channels each have 50
divisions 1n an 80 mm Width, with trace width constant at one- tenth of a chart diV 1si011. So now you can
easily detect minute signal variations and take full advantage of a
state ampliﬁers provide a’sensitivity of 0.5 millivolts/ div
position, variable gain and 12 push-button chart

speeds. No other recorder can match the total ‘5
.. . rUSh INSTRUMENT5

capab111ty Of the Mark 280. erte for details. DIVISION OF ttEv vaE 37TH AND PERKINS, CLEVELAND 14, OHIO

 

 

5% system accuracy. Matched solid-
- Operating controls include attenuator, pen—

  

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

BIG IDEAS TAKE MANY SHAPES AT CASTLE...

10 JULY 1964

Our new research laboratory is developing space age sterilization tech-
niques for NASA—~a contract we've been awarded annually since 1961.

And at the same time, our researchers have developed BioSpore Biolog-
ical Sterility Indicators—the only positive sterility monitors for all types
of sterilization.

Lots of our big ideas are at wor in hospitals all over the world—Power-
Clave sterilizers with Electrilock Door. major surgical lights. the five-
section T-SOOO operating table.

Yes. we do a lot of things here at Castle, all of them well. Wilmot Castle
Company, 1743 E. Henrietta Rd., Rochester. New York 14602.

SUBS/DIARY 0F RITTEF? COMPANY INC.

87

 

 




 
  

  
   
   

10 July 1964

Vol. 145, No. 3628

    
   
 
   
 
   
 
  
 
  
  
 
  
   
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
   
   
    
  
     
 
        
     

LETTERS Congress and Space Projects: lmhalanee in Iiit'ut‘ilifgsi s. (nu/'1 (m.- 'uiled 'l‘est and
Other Statistics: L. 5. Nelson and I’. H . [In/ml; ( Him; I . I . ll “"nrr; ('Oillllhors
”INN/IL liehuxmt'al Selt‘ltt'c RL‘tik‘lll‘u'ti r1. 1. Rf'ading

and Gentlemen: (i. R. I .
C H Salli/mick. R. 1.. l’t'llllt')". \Vhlte Houst- Unmet; \. \ \Ir'wm; African

 

Archival Guide: (‘ontrihutions Invited; ,\I. Kit-23w . . . . 109 I
1 EDITORIAL ASpecialOpportunity ............... 115
ARTICLES Economics and the Quality of lite: J. K. (l'u/lnm'zlt ...... . , _ _ _ , . . . . . .. 117 I

i . .

1 Environment and Man in And America: II. I . \Iu/t/t- _ _ . . .. 123
Geologic, biologic. and archeologic clues suggest elinmtxg ti mixes in the dry

l ' Southwest in the last l5.()()() years.

Heterochromatic Chromosomes in the ('oeeids: .8. ll'. [mum and I \ ,, , _ . .. 130

The process of heterochromati/ation and the turn-tron Hl ln" meln‘omatin
in coccid insects are reviewed.

 

NEWS AND COMMENT- Space Politics—Powerful and Dillicult 'lo (lmnge: Hill}: Hist‘tltt' "(unit of
Appeals" Proposed . . . . . . . . 137
BOOK REVIEWS The Quest for Certainty: Sr'ir’m'r' ('ituliun Im/m: II. If. Man/nu I: . . . 142
The Formation of Wood in Forest 'Irvr's. reyieued by j. .4. Rum/v. , . 1; other reviews
by J- K- 703’10’3 H .W' Sl‘r'r. J. 1.. RUSr'Il/N‘I'L’. .‘i. Hum}. /. \Ir'll(/t'/.\()/ll2, I
E. S. Deevey, Jr., G. 1‘. Carter. 11'. (tuning. 11'. .l. um H r1:ff«'/.'..’ m". ... 143

 

REPORTS Reactlon of Hydrogen with Oxygen Adsorhcd on d i’|.tlitttlm ('.tt.tl\ z:

 

? H. W. Kolm and M. Bumlart . . . . . . . . .. 149
Flowage Differentiation: S. Blzatlar'lmrji and (I II. Smith ,,,,, 150
Dome-Shaped Volcanic Gas Vents in Arizona: R. .‘i. lair/Irv and R / , nulluix , , .. 153
Strontlum Fixation by Lime Contained in Soils: R. ,\IU/\u(/I\' .md \l. m." ..... 154
Oysters: Composition of the Larval Shell: II. B. Slvnxol . . . I I . 155
Femoral Expansion in A ' - ~

. gmg Women: lmallcatr) ' ' - . . - ., _
R. W. szth, Jr., and R. R. walkw-l W W ()iiw‘m'm" “”1 i ””1”” 156
Identiﬁ ' ‘ - - .
Mgﬁiifcils'O/El Afeglcpolme 1n 831””)thth (iimglia hV (hernia! and I’liVsiC'dl
. . . . Izesen, J. W. Kemp. I). M, Winn/Imm- ... 157
“CytOplasmic” Sterilit ' -* - '
Y 1n Dlosoﬂzz/ '- . , -. . .
on Nuclear Genes: L. Eltrnlzana paulzstmum Which Is Llltimately Dependent 159

 

 

 
  

  

  

“‘3 'M+..GOULD. Hearty mama. 1mm w. amount
IIIIII - PreSItlent Elect H. BENTLEY GLASS
awe, . CHEMlSTRY (or
> a . Roiand Rivest ’ -
3“??? s. L. Meiset
i. ggféfdtgbifasﬁgggpmc soreness no msroav AND Panesopm’ 0‘
iii??? “9 3°?" F?“ itéhgugsueitiotignson

 
 

I I » lNDUISTRlAL SCtENCE (P)
" Atten T. Boone"

 
  
  

 
 
  
       
    
   

e “3“3'3’393f soumwssrm me new MOW“;
RobertC.gMitler Edwin R. Hetwig Mario?"
.. ’3 President - Exew

 

“*1 “W: Washington, Dc. 20005. NowAcgfm“
‘ “ “ﬁrms Advancement of meme. .33
1’0-11m9nttts;‘$7.50. Provide 9 weeks
“9‘. 2’8: same to Perioéicat Metatars-

  




 

  

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

MEETINGS

DEPARTMENTS New

Lateral Geniculate Nucleus and Cerebral Cortex: Evidence for a Crossed Pathway:
M. Glickstein, J. Miller, 0. A. Smith, Jr.

Thermal Inactivation of the Primer in DNA-Dependent Synthesis of RNA in

Animal Tissue: J. J. Futh and P. Loh ...................................

Persistence of Neorickettsiae helminthoeca in an Endoparasite of the Paciﬁc

Salmon: R. K. Farrell, M. A. Lloyd, B. Earp ...........................

Tetracycline Fluorescence in Permeability Studies of Membranes around

Intracellular Parasites: H. G. da Buy, F. Riley, J. L. Showacre .............

Toxic Effect of Pseudomonas tabaci on RNA Metabolism in Tobacco and Its

Counteraction by Kinetin: L. Lovrekovich, Z. Klement, G. L. Farkas .........

Indoleacetic Acid Synthesis by Polyphenols in the Extraction of Pinus Phloem and

Cambial Tissue: F. W. Whitmore and R. Zahner ..........................

Gamma Globulin: Unmasking of Hidden Antigenic Sites on Light Chains:

R. L. Nachman and R. L. Engle, Jr. ....................................

Gamma Globulin Antigenic Types Deﬁned by Heavy Chain Determinants:
R. E. Ballieux et al.

Antibody to Hereditary Human Gamma-Globulin (Gm) Factor Resulting from

Maternal-Fetal Incompatibility: H. H. F adenberg and B. R. Fudenberg ........

Aortico-Pulmonary Glomus Tissue Distribution and Blood Supply in the Adult Cat:

M. A. Verity, T. Hughes, J. A. Bevan ...................................

A Primitive Heart in the Echinoid Strongylocentrotus parpuratus: R. A. Boolootian. . . .
and]. L. Campbell ....................................................

Ultraviolet Sensitivity of Escherichia coli Containing Heat-Inducible

Lambda Prophages: M. Lieb ...........................................

Lethal Alleles in Mas mascalas: Local Distribution and Evidence forIsolation of

Demes: P. K. Anderson ................................................

Hypertensive Vascular Disease Produced by Homologous Renin:
G. M. C. Masson et al.

Attention, Vigilance, and Cortical Evoked-Potentials in Humans: M. Haider,

P. Spong, D. B. Lindsley ..............................................

Enhancement of Evoked Cortical Potentials in Humans Related to a Task Requiring

a Decision: H. Davis ..................................................

Air Pollution and Health: J. R. Goldsmith; Cross-Linkages in Collagen: R. R. Kohn,

H. B. Bensusan, L. Klein; Forthcoming Events ............................

 

Products

COVER

canus. The pentaradiate

.................................................

...........................................................

Aboral View of test of the sea
urchin, Strongylocentrotus

 

159

161

162

163

165

166

167

168

170

172

173

177

178

180

182

184

  
   
 
 
 
 

francis-
construc—
tion of this shell is a fundamental

characteristic of echinoderms. The

 

heart—shaped structure (off center) is
the madreporite under which a pul-
sating organ has recently been dis-
covered. See page 173. (About 10
percent larger than actual size) [Rich-
ard A. Boolootian]

  




 

 

    

 

      
   
   

SET IT
AND
FORGET IT!

New, Elgeet-Olympus high:precision Micro-Cinematographic Apparatus
for time-lapse photography

Take clear, brilliant 8mm or 16mm movies through a

. . . PHOTOGRAPHIC MA an be used-
standard mlcroscope. Prlmarlly designed for micro- GNIF'CATION—Any mm mm or mm c

scopes having a vertical tube 16mm ' ' ' ' ' ° ' 0'28 times total magniﬁcation of microscope-

Th ' f M d 12600 . - . , 8mm - - - - - . . 0.4 times total magnification of microscope-
heIVIeEs/erto tll e . t permcits observmg the image A selection of models is ax, -] b1 f vqriOUS cameras

w 1e s 00 mg e 91c ure, an 1ts auto-timer makes and Purposes Com 31 a e or f Pack Drive

gosmble sl%W-speed pll/Cltlire tlalinrdlgi TE‘JhlSIIIIl/Sle of an Elgeet- Mechanism and Stag);1 errrllts, Slllchbis PO“}frsed S-e’parate-
ympus xposure e er 0 e -IV is recom- . . , 33’ a 80 DUYC 5%

mended for obtaining the most favorable exposure. 1y. For full Informatlon’ write Elgeet Optical CO" Inc,

303 Child Street, Rochester, New York 14611.

E/qeef

90

45
SCIENCE. VOL 1

 

 

Illllll

 




new automated technic provides rapid preparative and quantitative information on peptides

. . . their size, occurrence and distribution. . .and assures detection.

The Technicon AutoAnalyzer system you see
above may well make history in protein research.
By an ingenious extension of multiple-analysis
chromatography, it not only separates peptides for
preparative purposes, but at the same time gives
quantitative information.

The column efﬂuent is split into many streams.
One stream is subjected to a system of continuous
hydrolysis. Another stream, unhydrolyzed, is used
as control. Both are reacted with Ninhydrin. Com-
parison of these gives information about the size oi
the peptide. Other parallel streams can be used
simultaneously for speciﬁc amino acid reactions

Thus, the basic AutoAnalyzer® train can be aug-
menth and shaped at will to provide more and
more analytic information.

In doing this, the system takes up where paper
chromatograpl‘iy, electrophoresis and UV monitor-
ing leave off. These methods are generally adequate
enough for limited qualitative ﬁndings only.

The Technicon® peptide system is automated from
beginning to end with thoroughgoing AutoAnalyzer
efﬁciency, rapidity, and reliability. This versatile
AutoAnalyzer reduces to hours the days now con-
scripted to the tedious task of peptide analysis.

TlON IN ANALYTICAL CH
«OWX [EM/S)

Q’ SEPTEMBER

I6,I7and l8

l964

STATLER HHION
HOTEL
NEW YORK

ECHNICON

BEFORE CHROMATOGRAPHY CORP
Research Park . Chauncey,N.Y

Section of a chromatogram showing tryptic hydrolyzate of performic acid
oxidized bovine pancreatic Ribonuclease before and after alkaline hydrolyszs.

 




In LlllUID SCINTILLATION Spectrometers...

ANSitron...

ELECTRONIC
COMPUTATION f —-——————-»

  
 
 
    
 
  

 

0N 0N+
. on: l EXT , 1 J o .
. '\ STD . 0.0 0 Sr 19‘3nb.'¢m‘m
. H 0 "31‘,“ er.r-; ‘w ic\
1 ‘ h b I J ‘ ltt' r rhauﬂiﬂ‘.
‘ 0 O is 'I 4
18 9 1 u C 0
1‘) t r
u 0 k r , mw I, (it) minulal
CWPUTER L i ., r A 13m»Yulﬂndocinlllpllcc’

)
I
, A .1. O t , , n . pl' 1.. hm) docuuul place.
I L H l' 2 l . pm to Hm duomul places

 

l. 1 5 'l u t 0 5., . . rpm (“tinted lor1.00 mlnutuonly

A NEW CONCEPT. . .

in automatic liquid scintillation counting, the ANSitron electronically
processes accumulated data in as many as 2()() samples. At the conclusion
of each determination the ANSitron’s computer section requires only
microseconds to calculate sample count-rate. Count-rate for each channel
computed to two decimal places, with background contribution elimi-
nated, is printed out together with sample number and counting time.
EI‘I‘OI‘ Free For all measurements decimal points are properly positioned. [Electronic
computation reduces total data processing time, including print out,
to less than three seconds per sample for a three channel instrument.
Sample informationis presented in a concise format. ideal tor a permanent
record or for error-free transcription. Reliability of the ANSitron’s

electronic computational circuitry is many times greater than that of
mechanical calculators.

 

And the ANSitron is capable of even more. Quenching in single or
dual label samples is determined by means of a unique external stand-
ardlzation teChniClue which gives computed data, independent of sample
counting Statistics. A novel low count rejection system, based on

Quench Computation statlstical principles, enables automatic rejection of low activity samples
1n seconds. Quartz'cryStal controlled “live timing“ provides automatic
Cempensation of counting time for instrumental process time. Loga-
r1thmic spectrum conversion results in the widest possible dynamic

. 3 ' '
range, H and P32 can be measured in the same sample Without the
need for attenuators.

The ANSitron, the only liquid scintillation spectrometer utilizing all

All Silicon Reliability Stllcon transistors and diodes and with neither conventional relays nor
Stil'pmg SWItCheS has been designed with especial emphasis on reli-
a IllltY- For an Informative brochure describing these and the several
ot er new features of the ANSitron write or phone:

 

 

 

P.O. BOX 37
WALLINGFORD. CONN‘

Phone: (203) 265-1 531
SCIENCE, VOL' 145

 

 

92

 

 




 

 

 

UPtime International Style!

. world-wide factory tralned service keeps your centrifuges
working and working and working and working and working and working and

Downtime in a laboratory centrifuge costs you money, time, efﬁ-
ciency. Even more important, downtime can stop progress on a
vital clinical test or research project. That’s why we specialize
in UPt/me. Every year, through the lEC service school, we train
scores of dealer repair men, people from university and public

INTERNATIONAL

SEAL OF

health laboratory repair facilities and independent instrument
repairmen. These men represent virtually every area in the
United States as well as foreign countries. Through your lEC
dealer, they are prepared to serve you.

Interested in maximum Uptime . . . another reason to buy lEC.

EQUIPMENT CO.

ASSURANCE

300 SECOND AVENUE . NEEDHAM HEIGHTS, MASSACHUSETTS 02194

a5
«'16 ‘
www
~W N
“b%%
WVN}.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1|
r
r:
u
E
"I
TI
"I
n

FLUORESCENCE
SPECTROPHOTOMETER

NEW
Fluorlspec, RiilHl Atririiii “ Model SF-l

Fluorescence Spectrophotometer is a completely
new, (.tlllllliltil irratriiirzwf .'.hi(li successfully
combines the iltl‘e'dlllJi't'. i ‘ spectrophotometry
wrth the Iilllt'lt‘ill ‘.i‘tl '.ity of fluorescence
riieuatirirziwnt!

HIGH RESOLUTION

Fluorispec's llililt ii-miix 'i and the low-scat-
ttrietl limit ()l its two ,idllllﬂ monochm.
matrirs .'iltj."tit"ll‘i ti'i- ‘,'_ll specificity of
llUOiL‘St‘t‘iltt‘ (t‘.‘.it,‘ iii ."'ll|l)’|llg unknown
(tornpiiuriiisl

WELL—DESIGNED OPTICS
Fluorispec's night-at (1.“ (rplICS give reli-
able rt'priirftititiii: twat" ,‘Itl‘Jl featured are
aliltiiimtii l‘i‘irlllliill ‘ .i" 1 MM 3 CltOlCG Ol
Slit .'.iilth*’.‘

ULTRA-HIGH SENSITIVITY
Fluorispec's uitmh Jutly permits as-
say ()l llttll't".tt'lll i. "; iiitfs in the parts-
perbilhon range}!

 

 

 

‘
‘

\- ‘
' \ ..-';_.

 

TWO DOUBLE
MONOCHROMATORS

Elugtrispfics tyvo dual-grating monochromators provide tow-scattered
V» rte . high diSperswn, and excellent sensitivity. The first double
.- monochromator provides excitation energy, and an identical double
.iiionochromator is used for observation of fluorescent spectra.

 

  
 

BA [RD -,4 TOM/C, INC-

For. comprehensive descriptive literature, price
delivery and other information, please contact:

 

 

 

 

33 University Road/Cambridge, Mass. 02138

Telephone: 617 UNiversity 4—7420

 

i Engineers and scientists: investigate opportunities with Baird At '
- omic

94
SCIENCE, VOL. 145

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

A BARREL FULL OF FUNDAMENTALS

When you look at your sample in the glass barrel of a Hamilton syringe, there’s a lot
you don’t see. For instance, the carefully selected alkali—resistant glass in the barrel
has been annealed to relieve internal strains. The bore is pre—honed and mated to
its individual plunger to provide uniform action and to prevent leakage. Accurate
graduations become a permanent part of the barrel by an ionic reaction of a silver
nitrate stain. You can be sure of your sample when the plunger slides along the
barrel of a Hamilton syringe.

 

 

To: HAMILTON COMPANY ° P.O. Bax 307—K ° Whittier, California

Send me a catalog on your complete line of syringes and related equipment.

Clip, attach to
letterhead and mail

Name ' Title

 

 

 

10 JULY 1964 95

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Now you can
analyze metallic 10118

to parts per billion

— by atomic absorption spectrosc0py
— by flame emission spectrosc0py

with this one instrument

   
   

see per hour

 

 

,i’siOn of all routine tech-

 

 

 

 

 

 

JUJUL

Duplicate calibrating standards
analyzed and reproduced within
threeminutes. Aqueous standards
of MgClz containing 0.01ugml M

I1..0ixg,«'ml Mg analyzed at the 2852A
me.

.ed by JarretleAsh personnel; 'J
‘gecl in price ,

 

 

LYTIEAL lNSTRUMENTATIUN

JARRELL-ASH COMPANY

96

' SPECTROSCOPY ' GAS CHROMATOGRAPHY

SOME T YPICAL USES

Blood

Urine

Tissue

Sorls

Fertili.~-'.

Plants

Plallrigf lililons
GeOIUFJ l Specimens
Electrolyw-s

Cement

Crude Prfrolele
Petroleu”: Products
Oil Additives
Vegetablw Oils
Arilmall :‘s
Metalltlrbi. :al Specimens
Ores

Natural Waters

Plant Effluent
Animal lrwds

Sea Watrr

Foods

Beverages

Beer and ‘v‘i’lne
Plastics

Chemicals:

Air Pollution Samples
Water Pollution Samples
Drugs

x RAY DlFFRACTlON

. 530 Lincoln Street, Waltham, Massachusetts 02154
.,LRue dela Jacuse 6. Le Locle, Switzerland
., TD., Kiyamachi-Sanjyo-Sagaru, Nakagyoku. KyolO, Japan

. 5
SCIENCE. V OL- 14

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

PHARMACIA

lEADING IN DEXTRAN
CHEMISTRY

Se in

F F

 

 

 

 

@ll

 

A NEW CONCEPT IN
ION EXCHANGERS

 

DEAE-Sephadex a major de-
velopment in Ion Exchangers

Introduction of ionic groups into
SEPHADEX makes possible ion exchange
materials with high capacity and low
nonspeciﬁc adsorption. SEPHADEX, a hy-
drophilic insoluble substance, is made
by cross-linking the polysaccharide dex—
tran. Both dextran and SEPHADEX were
developed by Pharmacia in Uppsala,
Sweden.

DEAE-SEPHADEX, containing the active
radical diethylaminoethyl, is the first
commercially available ion exchanger de-
rived from dextran. DEAE-SEPHADEX is
anionic, medium basic, and has a strong
affinity for water. The swelling is pro-
portionate to the degree of cross-linkage,
the counterions, and ionic composition
of the surrounding medium.

DEAE-SEPHADEX has many unique char-
acteristics. Its stability in many mediums
—water, weak acids, saline and alkaline
solutions—offers many application op-
portunities. The gel is affected only by
strong acids at elevated temperatures and
strong oxidizing agents. DEAE-SEPHADEX
is especially suitable for labile compounds.

DEAE-SEPHADEX is available in two types
with different porosities: A-25 and A-50.
A-25 is highly cross-linked and has a
high capacity for molecules smaller than
. 10,000 in molecular weight. Ionic groups

Illustration of Relative Capacities for
Various Proteins

 

 

 

 

PROTEINS DEAE-SEPHADEX
A-25 A-50
Pepsin at pH 3.6 0.2 g./g. 1.6 g./g.
Amylase at pH 8.3 0.3 g./g. 2.4 g./g.
Ovalbumin at pH 7.6 0.2 g./g. 1.2 g./g.
Hemoglobin at pH 8.8 0.4 g./g. 1.4 g./g.

 

 

 

 

 

in A-50 are accessible to much larger
molecules. A-50 has far greater binding
capacity than A-25 for the larger mole-
cules. Each has a total exchange capacity
3-4 meq/ g.

APPLICATION .

DEAE-SEPHADEX may be used in column
and batch operations. Chromatographic
fractionations are preferably made with
Medium and Fine grades. The Coarse
grade is more suitable for separations in
batches. The particle size of these grades
are Coarse (approx. 50-140 mesh),
Medium (approx. 100-270 mesh), and
Fine (approx. 200-400 mesh).

Puriﬁcation, separation, and fractiona-
tion in organic and biochemical research
and production processes achieve sub-
stantial yields with selection of the proper
DEAR-SEPHADEX. A variety of problems
in protein chemistry can be solved, e.g.,
puriﬁcation of enzymes. Easy fractiona-
tions and high yields of serum proteins
are possible with DEAR-SEPHADEX A-SO.
This is illustrated by Figure I.

Separation of Normal Human Serum

0.07 molar NaCI
<——- 0.17 molar NaCI
‘— O.38 molar NaCI

@—

E
o
co
N

>~
r.-

U)

C

o
“o
’5

U
'4‘—

o.
0

Nucleic acids, nucleotides, and a wide
range of oligonucleotides can be readily
bound and separated by fractional elu-
tion. Separation of polypeptide mixtures

is possible by fractionating through ion
exchange and ion exclusion. This is ex»
empliﬁed by Fig. II.
Trichloroacetic acid extract from
21 ml blood cells
from a case of Von Gierke’s disease.

l‘g/ml.

 

(Graph reproduced from publication by P. A.
Ockerman in Biochim. Biophys. Acta 74 (1963)
with the editors’ and author’s permission.)

TWO CATION
EXCHANGERS AVAILABLE

For separation and fractionation of com-
plex organic substances and protein
groups, Pharmacia has developed two
new cationic SEPHADEX compounds which
are dextran derivatives. Sulfoethyl is the
active group for SE-SEPHADEX and is
strongly acidic. The active radical for
the weakly acidic CM-SEPHADEX is car-
boxymethyl.

SE-SEPHADEX and CM-SEPHADEX are pre-
pared in two forms. 025, which is ideal
for separating low molecular weight com-
plex organic substances, and 050, which
has proved very satisfactory for puriﬁca-
tion of proteins, enzymes, and related
nitrogenous compounds.

SE-SEPHADEX and CM-SEPHADEX cover a
broad range in total exchange capacity,
2-2.5 meq / g and 4-5 meq / g respectively.
Both products are available in the follow-
ing sieve fractions: Coarse (approx. 50-
140 mesh), Medium (approx. 100-270
mesh), and Fine (approx. 200-400
mesh).

 

For complete information
about Ion Exchangers and
all types of SEPHADEX
please ﬁll in the request
coupon and send it to us
with your letterhead.

(Inquiries outside
North America should
be directed to

AB PHARMACIA,

U ppsala, Sweden.)

10 JULY 1964

PHARMACIA FINE CHEMICALS INC.

Piscataway, New Market, New Jersey 08854

Please send me technical information

on SEPHADEX lon Exchangers

Name

Please send me, regularly,
lon Exchanger abstracts

 

 

Company

Address

 

97

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

#75. Mechanisms of Hard Tissue Destruction.

1963. 776 pages. 430 illustratlons.
One color plate.
Edited by: Reidar F. Sognnaes.
Symposium by 49 outstanding co-authors on
destruction of mineralized structures by or-
ganisms and by physical and chemical agents,
ranging from rock boring to bone resorption
and tooth decay.

Price: $13.00. AAAS Member’s Cash Price: $11.00.

#74. Aridity and Man.

The Challenge of the Arid Lands in the US.
1963. 604 pages. 98 illustrations. _
Edited by: Carle Hodge and Peter C. Dursberg.
“Best collection of background material . . .
well balanced and highly readable . . . prob-
ably the broadest and most nearly complete
treatment of arid lands yet published.” Journal
of Forestry, May 1964.

Price: $12.00. AAAS Member’s Cash Price: $10.00.

#73. Land and Water Use.

With special reference to the Mountain and
Plains Regions.
1963. 364 pages. 8 illustrations.
Edited by: Wynne Thorne.
“Lively symposium . . . three main divisions:
The Resource Setting, Criteria and Policies. and
The Role of Government . . . deserves con-
tinuing reference as a provocative contribution
to the urgent problems of western resource
disposition and management.” Journal of
Forestry, November 1963.

Price: $8.00. AAAS Member’s Cash Price: $7.00.

#72. Spermatozoan Motility.

1962. 322 pages. 113 illustrations.
Edited by: David W. Bishop.
“This book is an excellent assemblage of re-
cent ﬁndings and reports of new data relative
to the perplexing problem of sperm mobility
and includes the opinions and ideas of cytolo—
gists, biophysicists, biochemists and physiolo-
gists.” Journal of Animal Sciences, March 1963.
. ‘jOf great value to the research worker who
is interested in the problems of ﬂagellar mo-
tion.” The American Journal of the Medical
Sciences, March 1963.

Price: $7.50. AAAS Member’s Cash Price: $6.50.

#71. Great Lakes Basin.

1962. 320 pages. 92 illustrations.
Edited by: Howard J. Pincus.
“. . . Difﬁculty . . . in attempting to do justice
to.all the_top1cs covered in a book as rich as
thls one 1n content, interpretation, and discus-
sron. . . . Well designed and pleasing in ap-
pearance. . . . Highly recommended to scien-
tist and layman alike.” Transactions, American
Geophysical Union, December 1963.

Price: $7.50. AAAS Member’s Cash Price: $6.50,

British Agents: Bailey Bros. & Swinfen, Ltd., Warner

 

 

Circle Volumes 1515 Massachusetts Av
23ng WlSh To Washington, DC. 20031112, NW
er . . .

75 74
72 71

Add
69 68 ress

Please check:

Payment
Enclosed

 

(

i
l
l
l
I
l
l
I
l
I
l
|
l
I
l
l
l
l
l
l
l
l
l
l
l

\O
00

American Association for the Advan

P . .
lease send the symposzum volumes czrcled on this form

City ...................

li’fase send Membership Application F

Recent AAAS Symposium Volumes

#70. Fundamentals of Keratini/ation.

1‘)(12.3113p;1_ucs. 13(111111s11 itions.

lidited 111: 1 , (). litttchct .11111 R. F. 801111112168,
“'1 his hools . . . makes insinuating reading for
all clinicians and tcseatcl. workers interested
in 1sc1‘1111111sini: Iissttcs.” li'i'sslt [Hum] JUNrnal,
15 1:111. 1961.

PIA-('1': \().<11. "1.'1.1\ .‘,t'Hl/'i ’.\ ( ”\h I’ri('(’,' $575.

#69. Hiupln‘sics of Physiological and Pharmacological
Actions.

1961.(1l3p;1ees, 2131111111 “ions.

111111011 111: ,-\111‘;111.1111 \l \‘ .11es_

"l-'\ce11e1111\ nuanced . It is :1 fascinating
book 1111' basic plnsinlttt'i' .11111 pharmacolo-
uists, sllltlcnls lttlctcslctl 111 ‘111‘ lwgtsic sciences.
111111 lCllL'llL'lN.H (mi/1.1 [11 {1' \li tillt'im'. Decem-
l‘ct‘ 1‘1111.

I’I'lt‘t'.‘ $135”. 31.1le Hint/'1 1' ( 1.1/1 l’l‘it't’.‘ $11.75.
#68. Sciences in (‘ontmunist ('hina

I‘lhl. 148-1 paces. :1 11111stt "tins.
l'llllL'kl 1“: \111111‘\ 11. (11111111
“ st‘t'onels llt‘c‘tltttillt‘tttlv l to all who are
in search ot 1.1ets .11111 21111‘ - material on the
sciences in 61111111." \111 ,, 23 September
19111

Price.” $14,011. .1118" ,1Il'llll’t 1'1 ( .111 Price: $12.00.
#67. Oceanography.

1961. 311d printing. 106.”. 1105 11:11:09 146
illustrations.

liditcd 1w: H.111 Sears.

"1 11111117111 nobothct‘ \1111111‘ 111-11 ‘0 “5911.916
ﬁnes oceanography its 1111‘1‘~‘~C- opportunities
and redttit'entents" Mum. ’ lune W01

PI‘it‘c.‘ $14.75. .'1/1/1‘ \Ii'm/w 1’s ( \lI I’I'lt'l'5 $12.50.
#66. Germ Plasma Resources.

1961. 39-1 pages. 5‘1 11111st1.1‘ 1111s.
Edited by: Ralph l . llodeso'
“This book 11111 be 111' llllL‘IL‘\' to nonplant and
animal breeders. tor the 1.11" :1 general treat-
ment (11 Various “‘1‘10 . , illnws for rapid
PCI'llN‘ill." Jill/it'll” 1" lift” /1"ui)1(1](1g1(‘(ll S0-
(‘lt’lt‘ (’1 .'11111‘1‘11'11. ‘L‘Plc‘lltl‘c 111111

1.19 \lt'mlu'r's (1.1/1 l’t'it‘t'.’ $8.50-

#65. Aging . . . Some Social and Biolnuical Aspects.

1960. 436 pages. 65 illustrations.
Edited by: Nathan \V. Shock.
“The 26 contributors include minty of the most
resl‘ccted names in .-\111e1‘1e.1n gerontology. 1}.“
the Chiiplcrs cover a wealth ot‘ material. --
Journal of Get-(1111.11.19,

Pl'lCI’.’ $8.50. AAAS .Ut‘mln'r's (1:111 Price: $7.50-

Housc. 48 Upper Thames Street. london. E.C.4

cement of Science

102

State ............. Zip Code

8‘ and “Close Payment for the volumes indicated at member
I am not a member of AAAS,

( , S chlOS€ -
1 1 Please bill me.
orm.

_——
————
——————_————-—

yJENCE.V0L

 

 

 




FROM HYDROOARBONS
TO STEROIDS—I
STRETCH YOUR GO
ANALYTICAL HORIZON
WITH PERKIN-ELMER
MODELS 800 AND 801

The Perkin-Elmer Model 800 was the first
gas chromatograph to incorporate differ~
ential flame ionization detection, dual
columns and a highly accurate linear tem3

perature prOgrammer. lt has set new
standards of performance because of its
sensitivity, high-temperature baseline staa
bility and Dynathermal oven temperature
Control.

Perkin-Elmer now makes available the
Model 80l, with the operating features of
the Model 800, except that it" has an alla
glass column and iniector system in place
of the Model 8005 metal construction. The
versatility of these two instruments is
pointed up in the brochures illustrated
below.

"For the analysis of samples containing non-w

vaporizable residues, or those that might
react with metal injectors or columns, the

Model 80l's all-glass iniec’tor ports are
quickly and easily removed, cleaned and
replaced. The Model 80l, like the Model
800, is a thoroughly unique instrument—v
unmatched commercially—in accurate con»
trol of isothermal conditions, and in speed
of response to rapid-rate temperature pro-3
grams. For'such programming, l2 linear
heating rates are provided, from 0.511
48OC/min. Maximum oven temperature is
4009C.

Further information, including copies of
the brochures illustrated, is available on
request. Write to Instrument Marketing
Division, Perkin—Elmer Corporation, 910
Main Avenue, Norwalk, Conn.

 




 

l

.3]
:i
l
l
Ml

 

WHY

 

M" Sari/'81], Inc. NDRWALK

100

 

Request Bulletin SC-7RC2-T

 

 

 

01H 2.

l O

EES CENTIGRADE

SDRVALL DUAL TEMPERATURE CONTROL?

For several good and functional reasons. A rotor running at speed requires a
greater rate of heat extraction than when it is at rest. A single temperature con-
trol cannot differentiate. Set to cool the rotor during the running portion of the
operating cycle, it would overcool a rotor slowing down, and even freeze the
contents of a rotor at rest. SORVALL’s dual control on the other hand can be pre-
set to provide a constant temperature level throughout the entire cycle of run-
ning, deceleration, and rest. Because SORVALL'S sensitizing element surrounds
the base of the exclusive Gyro-Action Direct Drive, immediately adjacent to
the rotor, it provides far more accuracy and reliability in the area important to
you —. rotor contents — than any similar control available. \Vith SORVALL, the
"holding” control takes over automatically from the "running" COfltr01 at luSt
the right moment during deceleration, and then "holds" your desired tempera'
ture indefinitely after the rotor has stopped. SORVALL, and only SORVALL,haS
had years. of experience with dual temperature controls, and has proved them
in use With thousands of refrigerated centrifuges in leading laboratories 31
over the world. This is one more reason why tlie RC-Z (illustrated) is a truly
CZ: rlitf 1:1: :OEe: 01:) instrument. RC-2 Automatic Superspeed Refrigerated

’ rpm_ 37,000 x G —— 5 Angle and Horizontal ROtorS'

. CONNECTICUT

 

SCIENCE. VOL. 145

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

10 JULY 1964

 

 

 

THAT’S ENHANGETRON!

What’s Enhancetron? What does it do?
Enhancetron 1024 extracts the signal
of interest from non-filterable noise.
It’s a portable signal-averaging digital
computer'that enhances signal-to-noise
ratios. It’s a new electronic measure-
ment tool that finds immediate applica-
tion in astronomy, bio—medicine,
physics, electrophysiology, NMR, EPR,
mass spectometry, and other fields.
The illustration Shows how Enhance-
tron works. Signals obscured by noise
are digitized at 1024 time intervals, and
the results are recorded as 1024 num-
bers in a magnetic core memory. Subse-
quent sweeps are added numerically.
The repetitive signal of interest adds in
direct proportion to the number of sam-

 

New major instrument extracts
signals from noise!

ples taken; noise adds in proportion to
the square root of the number of sam-
ples taken. The signal of interest liter-
ally “grows” out of the noise, as you can
see, and is displayed on an external
oscilloscope. .

The list of electronic features is im-
pressive. Ask your Nuclear Data sales—
man for a demonstration of ND-BOO—
Enhancetron 1024— or write for details
and specifications on this remarkable
new solution to your noise problems.

(As you'd expect, it's from Nuclear Data)

Nllﬂlﬂill‘ Mia, Illl}.

P. 0. Box 451.100 W.Golf Rd.. Palatine, Illinois 60067

 

101

 




   

T I T RIG R A P H is proven the world over for all

applications relating to pH and buffer studies, and indprott:rgfacnginigiyrgeﬁic investi-
gations—or other studies of reaction kinetics under con. I I0 f| b“ t. I

The TTT-1 Automatic Titrator is noted for Its stability and €X| ' I V, Q0 on Y as a
laboratory pH meter, but for the automatic performance of all types of routine end p.0m.t
titrations. Combined with the SBR-2 Recorder and the SBU-ll Syringe .Burette Unit, it
can automatically trace titration curves for determination opr s and equivalence pomts,
or act as a pH stat—recording the kinetics of reaction solutions. ‘ .

As a Titrigraph, the Recorder is unique in adapting itself to the slope of the titration
curve, automatically controlling titrant flow to create a constant writing speed, As a pH
stat, remarkable stability permits studies of up to several days duration with a Wide
choice of chart speeds and burette delivery rates. _

An extensive range of titration and reaction vessels and assemblies cover the macro to
micro range—under both thermostatted and controlled atmosphere conditions.

The descriptive literature is most complete—and yours for the asking.

 

 

 

 

SBU-1
R». iiitqo Burette Unit

 

TTT-l Automatic Titrator
5 SHBVRi—Z Recorder

THE LONDON COMPANY

811 SHARON DRIVEWESTLAKE. OHIO .
RADIOMETER an COPENHAGEN
In Canada: Bach-Simpson Limited, Box 2484, London

 

 

 

45
SCIENCE. VOL- 1

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

Readers’ Service Card
KEEP UP TO DATE ‘

ON NEW INSTRUMENTS AND EQUIPMENT

Use the attached postcard to obtain the
latest available information on instruments
and equipment for the laboratory. Tear out
the card and circle those items that interest
you. ﬁll in your name and drop the card in
,the mail. No stamp is necessary. In a few
days you will receive the requested informa-
tion. -

AM:

I
I
I
I
I
l
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
l
l
l
I
l
l
I
|
l
I
l
I
I
l
l
I
I
l
I
I
l
I
I
l
I
|
I

° - t d dd‘

I Reader’s seerce IO July 1964 (Expires IO September 1964) ”mounﬁlgﬁtagf gram“
I ADVERTISEMENTS
I [IS Glas-Col [96-3 Pilot _ 2l0-l Standard Sci
I Ill-.70 CBa'slIIe‘ “4 High Voltage |97 S._ S. White 2I0-2 Typit

90 Elgeet ' ”6 TM l98-l Sigmamotor 2l0-3 Borden
I 9| Technicon l88-l U.S. Stoneware l98-2 Denominator 2| l-l urrum _
|. . 92 l88-2 Stathahm& L b :33: rsyéigtyne 5H2; ligtriéuments R&l

' l89 Bausc om - _ - -

I 32 Isgtill'ldn-a/{Itg'i‘nailc l90 Tektronix l99 Air Products 2l2-2 Thermolyne

95 Hamilton l9l-I Edmund 200-! Honeywell 2l3-I Klett
l 96 Jarrell-Ash l9l-2 Tracerlab 200-2 Chem. Rubber 2l3-2 Savant

97 Pharmacia l92-l Penn Fluo-rocarbon 203 Matheso _ 2l3-3 Maryland
I 99 Perkin-Elmer l92-2 Yellow Spring 204-l Thermoplastic 2l4-l Saqe
I l00 Sorvall l93 Sci Industries 204-2 Hac er 2l4-2 Falcon

l0l Nuclear Data l94-l La Pine 205 Texas 2l5-l Perkin-Elmer
| l02 London [94-2 Millipore 206 Zeiss 2,5.2 Photovolt
' I05 Ace Glass l94-3 Four Continent 208-l Blickman 264 EC
l l06 Varian ' l95-l Am Edelstaal 208-2 Nalge 2l6-2 Pioneer .
I |07 Ainwo-rth l95-2 Gilford 209-! Dimco-Gray 2l7 Phipps & Bird
l08 Polaroid l96-l Cooke, Ti'ouohton 209-2 E-c _ me on us _

I III Beckman l96-2 CEC 209-3 New Brunswmk 80 Nuclear Chicago
I NEW PRODUCTS 1 2 3
l .

 

a
INSTATHERM : An Integral Fused-to-Glass Heat Source

The Chemist’s Tranquilizer-Saves Time, Effort, Maintenance!

If you get a little impatient waiting
for the desired temperature, with the
difficulty of holding it exactly where
you need it; if inconsistency plus
”bumping” prevent you from obtain-
ing reproducible results, don’t reach
for a tranquilizer: Try INSTATHERM!

lnstatherm, the result of more than ten
years of experimentation with conduc-
tive films, employs an isothermal zone
method of temperature regulation.
Conductive and semi-conductive films
are fused together and to the surface
of the vessel to form integrated con~
trol circuits: infra-red energy absorbed
by the glass is translated directly into
useful heat. The apparatus responds
almost instantaneously to control
changes. Constant heat is more rapidly
established, there is no bumping.

lnstatherm’s superior characteristics
make sensitive reactions easier, reduce
side reactions. For instance, a govern-
ment chemist reports that he was able,
for the first time, to duplicate results.
in the preparation of certain atropine
derivatives. Here is a resume of lnsta-
therm’s advantages:

Rapid heating, equilibrium. High watt
density is on the surface where it
counts: reduces pre-heating time. For
instance, 4ml of H20 will boil in a
5 ml ﬂask in 55 seconds; 70 ml in a
100 ml flask will boil in 3 minutes; 287
ml' in a 400 ml beaker will be" in I3.

10 JULY 1964

minutes! Nearly instant response as-
sures rapid equilibrium, saves time
normally spent hunting for the right
setting.

Smooth boiling. Prescribed heat dis-
tribution eliminates super-heating and
”bumping”. Spattering is reduced to
a minimum on evaporating to dryness.
Low voltage. A maximum of 40V is
employed with high amperage to min-
imize risk. Current is isolated from
main power lines to prevent high volt-
ages to ground. Most units provide
adequate heat at I2 to 30 V.

Good regulation. Temperature can be
held over long periods with generally
imperceptible change.

Observation areas. Top to bottom
clear strips and ”windows” eliminate
”blind” operation.

No hot mantle to detach at end of
heating period. Flasks and beakers
up to 250 ml may be supported by
snap-on contact clamp which also
makes convenient handle with or with-
out power cord attached.

Operating economy. Direct surface
heating, inwardly focused, gives up to
53% greater efficiency in power utili-
zation. lt literally more than pays for
itself.

Long life expectancy. A resilient in-
sulation coating also protects against
mechanical shock, extends average
glassware life, many times: tested by
seven maior laboratories in the United
States, six of the seven experienced
no breakage in three years of use.
Spills do not ruin the heating element
——usually evaporate or wipe off. Re-
pair kits are available to reestablish
electrical continuity and insulation in
case of accidental burn-out.

Easy cleaning. Can be cleaned in
standard washing machines or in situ.
Coatings are resistant to all common
organic solvents, and short time im-
mersion in chromic acid cleaning solu-
tion. Internal surface is all glass.
Write for literature describing lnsta-
therm ﬂasks, beakers, funnels currently
available.

*U.$. Pats. #2979594, #3050608, #3092704. Other pats. pending.

 

toursvms, Ky.

ACE GLASS INCORPORATE?

Vineland ,New Jersey

SPRINGFIELD, MASS.

105

 

 




 
   

.-

c

E

E t

”C O

n. o.

O

o O
a
o
.2
(L

c

. .9

.-

E -;

° 0

Z a.

 

 

 

 

 

 

Empioyor

    
  
  
 
 

 

 

 

 

Addrou

 

 

BUSINESS
REPLY MAIL

No zioxtazc sump: necesw;
lI mailed m the United State:

No...

 

 

 

~. P011090 wiII be paid bY

SCIENCE MAGAZINE

Room I740, Reader's Service
II West 42 Street

New York, NY. 10036

Are you a member of the AAAS" Yes

 
  
   

t e

 

 

FQH’ST CLASS
Pym!” "0. I27”
NH! 10391. PH.

 

 

l-—-....—-- .-A--D-~o“w-.h”-~_----.

HOW TO use can

For Advoﬂiumonn CIICIO III
O .
whmh ud OppOOH. COMPOHY noxsb: Of 1h

Card: on which 0" number: a
C"-CK‘

e We
ea 9 on

u r to ihe "
n etrcled will not be 23:“.
C.

Addvou. Fill in nom. o .
a “I
und (HIdrou on ”‘0 addfp." :72; department,

‘ . of
(Iudlﬂg ponIlO" and employer will MES: cm
proc

employer,

(Is not in.

essed.

to: New Products. Circle the number given at It

curb V”,"oruph in the New Products section ('1: en2c37of
9e ).

Additional turd on 90'. 20‘.

-- suresetup to several days duration wmr a mac
ch ice of chart speeds and burette delivery rates.

An extensive range of titration and reaction vessels and assemblies cover the macro to
micro range—under both thermostatted and controlled atmosphere conditions.
The descriptive literature is most complete—and yours for the asking.

    

- ;: SBRZ Recorder I

 

 

TTT-I Automatic Titrator

SBU-I
3; time Burcttc Unit

 

THE LONDON COMPANY

811 SHARON DRIVE.WESTLAKE.OHIO t
RADIOMETER aft: COPENHAGEN
In Canada: Bach—Simpson Limited, Box 2484, London

SCIENCE. VOL. 145

 

 

 




E‘ on
ight.
QrOc.

Ever.
l"~ in.

yr

d of
I07).

 

 

 

 

 

air
INSTATHERM : An Integral Fused-to-Glass Heat Source

The Chemist’s Tranquilizer -Saves Time, Effort, Maintenance!

If you get a little impatient waiting
for the desired temperature, with the
difﬁculty of holding it exactly where
you need it; if inconsistency plus
”bumping” prevent you from obtain-
ing reproducible results, don’t reach
for a tranquilizer: Try INSTATHERM!

lnstatherm, the result of more than ten
years of experimentation with conduc-
tive films, employs an isothermal zone
method of temperature regulation.
Conductive and semi-conductive films
are fused together and to the surface
of the vessel to' form integrated con-
trol circuits: infra-red energy absorbed
by the glass is translated directly into
useful heat. The apparatus responds
almost instantaneously to control
changes. Constant heat is more rapidly
established, there is no bumping.

lnstatherm’s superior characteristics
make sensitive reactions easier, reduce
side reactions. For instance, a govern-

ment chemist reports that he was able,~

for the first time, to duplicate results
in the preparation of certain atropine
derivatives. Here is a resume of Insta-
therm’s advantages:

Rapid heating, equilibrium. High watt
density is on the surface where it
counts: reduces pre-heating time. For
instance, 4ml of H20 will boil in a
5 ml ﬂask in 55 seconds,- 70 ml in a
100 ml flask will boil in 3 minutes; 287
ml‘ in a 400 ml beaker will be" in 13

10 JULY 1964

minutes! Nearly instant response as-
sures rapid equilibrium, saves time
normally spent hunting for the right
setting.

Smooth boiling. Prescribed heat dis-
tribution eliminates super-heating and
”bumping”. Spattering is reduced to
a minimum on evaporating to dryness.
Low voltage. A maximum of 40V is
employed with high amperage to min-
imize risk. Current is isolated from
main power lines to prevent high volt-
ages to ground. Most units provide
adequate heat at 12 to 30 V.

Good regulation. Temperature can be
held over long periods with generally
imperceptible change.

Observation areas. Top to bottom
clear strips and ”windows” eliminate
”blind” operation.

No hot mantle to detach at end of
heating period. Flasks and beakers
up to 250 ml may be supported by
snap-on contact clamp which also
makes convenient handle with or with-
out‘ power cord attached.

Operating economy. Direct surface
heating, inwardly focused, gives up to
53% greater efficiency in power utili-
zation. lt literally more than pays for
itself.

Long life expectancy. A resilient in-
sulation coating also protects against
mechanical shock, extends average
glassware life, many times: tested by
seven maior laboratories in the United
States, six of the seven experienced
no breakage in three years of use.
Spills do not ruin the heating element
—usually evaporate or wipe off. Re-
pair kits are available to reestablish
electrical continuity and insulation in
case of accidental burn-out.

Easy cleaning. Can be cleaned in
standard washing machines or in situ.
Coatings are resistant to all common
organic solvents, and short time im-
mersion in chromic acid cleaning solu-
tion. Internal surface is all glass.
Write for literature describing Insta-
therm ﬂasks, beakers, funnels currently
available.

*U.$. Pats. #2979594, #3050608, #3092704. Other pats. pending.

 

lOUISVlllE, Ky.

ACE GLASS INCORPORATED

Vineland ,New Jersey

SPRINGFIELD, MASS.

105

 




 

J

 

 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
 
   
   

 

HERE’S IIIIIIIIIII’S IIEIII ; Hill! In" REGURDEBS
“'9 “Ecnnnin I Varian's new (‘i 40 .‘.('i'°"- ten-inch poten-

i :

.____——_

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Recorders should be rugged and reliable. ' t'omcmr m’ofrmi'“ "ff. I MW.) H pardon the “
That’s whyVarian’s solid-state X-Y recorders exmess'on‘ M My" H (‘r' . i
haveallmoving parts mounted ononesturdy I They're compact. U" (”St aluminum
casting. I And Varian’s X-Y recorders are construction and SUIIH ' Mite (leSIgn keep
designed for convenience, too. Unique weight down to I’D luv, yet make them
vacuum hold-down is maintenance-free and 1 rugged and m'SY ‘0 3”“ 0-
holds any size orshape of paperfrom 2”x2” I True differential input circuit means you .
to 11”.x 17”, Without masking. The control get both high input tin; i-rlance and high
panel is arranged to avoid confusion. Pen is common mode reim‘tmn. You can even 09' ;
thdbmagneticallly for easy servicing. Charts erate them With unbaIani wI circuitS.
e pre0isey pOSItioned With vacuum on. I Choose from single or multiple range
THE VARIAN X-Y RECORDER FEATURES; models. Eight push buttm i.inges—1 thO
I 02% accuracy i 100 VOItS —— Ol' Single itlllé'“. Attenuator ad 2
I 17”/ sec. pen speed ’ iUStment on all. i
I 14 DC volta e ran es ~ -. , '
0.5 mv/in. tgo 50 ﬁw/in. sIc:alFeaSt pen speed. LOSS ”I” 1': second W”
I vernier adjustment between ranges ' ,
I full scale zero plus 100% suppression I And they are accurate. 02590 5 W
I zener diode reference on 1 mv range; 0.25 05 on all other rangest
I independent servo-operated axes I Need more information? ‘.‘.e|l, then: 9 0P'
I bench-top or rack mounting ; tional chart speeds: controls; are in front fir
Varian makes two models of ' - easy Operation; they're Portable or rac-
I X-Y recorder: The F-80 (showntgfofg)?ev;li$h mountable; and prices Start at. $985. WIthtl]
l automatic-cycling time base—$2025; the healthy discounts for quantity or ‘OEI
I F-81, without time base—$1875. I For orders. Three diStht mOdOIS are availab?
l further information orademonstration write ' ”0V.“ for laboratory, mdUStr'a' 0’ OEM appll'
i RECORDER DIVISION. ' cations. Other inputs available as Spec'als'
Get all the facts from RECORDER DIVISION-
; ®VAR| AN assocm'res RECORDER DIVISION
In EurOpe contact Varian A. 6., Zug, Switzerland 1 HANSEN WAY! PALO ALTO 1 8'CALIE

106

E. \voL. 145

SCIENC

 

 




I

II 5W. R'I'l-I

 

 

 

 

Compact size Magni-Grad Type 21 analytical

 

Weigh below attachments available
on' all 1 pans, add B to type No.; Ex»
plosion proof available on all 1 pans,
add A to type No.;’ at extra cost. Type
300 diamond balance; Type SCH
with high weighing chamber; Type
SC 300 extended capacity.

10 JULY 1964

 

 

I QUALITY
I PnIcE

Full line of one-pan balances
speed ./ accuracy / can venience

'AII weights are built in, just dial

weights and read results. Following exclusive
Ainsworth features are included as standard
at no extra cost:

I patented compensated beam.

I “add weight” and “remove weight” signals.
I all metal case.

I eye-level, unobstructed readout.

   

 

 

 

 

 

A BALANCE FOR EVERY NEED

 

SPECIFICATIONS me so me 10 rm: 2: m: 12
Capacity 200 gr. 160 gr. 160 gr. 80 gr.
Ta re - 60 gr. .. 40 gr.
Total Load -- 220 gr. -- 120 gr.
Sensitivity 0.1 mg. 0.1 mg. 0.1 mg. 0.01 mg.
Efﬁfnaaﬁ'iggy by 0.05 mg. 0.05 mg. 0.05 mg. 0.005 mg.
Reproducibility $0.03 mg. :003 mg. :005 mg. 10.01 mg. Standard size Compact size Compact size
Dimensions 101/;”{’8§,21,?d3/4”h 81/4"y1x6,1.35/°"h 31/4";’1"6,1,3%”“ 31/4”; {6.13% ’" Type 50 Type _10 Type T2
“Right-A-Welgh” analytical semi-micro
PRICE $895.00 $670.00 $550.00 $875.00 analytical
: . MODIFICATIONS:

The name'Ainsworth is your guarantee
WRITE FOR CATALOG

WM. AINSWORTH & SONS, INC.

2151 LAWRENCE STREET . DENVER, COLORADO 80205
., Telephone Area Code 303 255-1723

I.

107

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

. photographers think this camera
,. 1 '1 was deSIgned for them. But we made it so

{.jjjversatIie it Can make just about every kind
:5-éplCtUl‘e uSed in a laboratory. .and make
it In 90 seconds or less. Shots of experi-
mental prototypes, photomicrography, mac-

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

This Polaroid Land Camera
cts as if it were designed

Color prints in both sizes: 60 seconds.

Lantern slides, both line and COHllllllUllH
tone: ready to project in minutes

All told there are 11 Polaroid Land film
types you can use if you' re in a bony And
if you' re not you can use any conventional
4x5 or roll film.

Most subjects will go right on the lighted
baseboard. Just focus with the eye-level ro-
flex viewer and shoot. For photomicrogrd-

 

  
   
  
  
   
 
   
 
  
  

[)lIy, yin: om [rill .‘I microscope under the
Spiritual li'li'.lr".'. HllllltCl'. FOCUS the same
way And fill ll’ ill .' My, Items like wall charts,
you rim (amora head 90°. The
rnIIIII-m (low. ll ~ lt'Hl

WI-'il lH' mm, III world you a free six-page
lIIorlIIIII- ()ll llll‘- l‘olmmcl MP3 View Cam-
IrI.I lIy rI-tIIIII ll‘ . Write Polaroid Corpora-
lIOII, lo-I lIlIII .Il ‘- :lr'S Department, Cam-
lIIIIlpji- 3‘), Mix.

‘pvlJlll': ll."

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Congress and Space Projects:

Imbalance in Hearings

McDonald’s letter (29 May 1964)
calling attention to the unscientiﬁc ap-
proach to certain aspects of the lunar
exploration program is most timely.
I suspect that a large part of the difﬁ-
culty stems from congressional pro—
cedures in allocating funds for space
research.

During the hearings on 10 and 11
June 1963 before the Senate Commit-
tee on Aeronautical and Space Sciences,
testimony was taken from 12 witnesses.
Of these 3 opposed and 9 were in
favor of the space program. Further-
more, 8 of the 9 proponents either were
receiving substantial grants from NASA
or represented companies and univer-
sities that were.

The hearings before the House Com-
mittee on Science and Astronautics on
the 1964 NASA authorization resulted
in 3540 pages of testimony printed in
ﬁve volumes. There were more than
100 witnesses, all associated in some
fashion with NASA, and no witnesses
who were critical of the fundamentals
of the space program. In the hearings
before the same committee on the 1965
authorization, 2840 pages of testimony
were printed. Again, all the witnesses
were associated with NASA, and there
were no critical witnesses.

The danger in this unbalanced testi—
mony seems clear. Proponents of the
moon race can make all sorts of state-
ments and claims which are not subject
to rebuttal, since the congressmen are
not scientists (although some appear to
have sound engineering backgrounds).
Two examples are of interest. On page
204 of the hearings on the 1965 NASA
authorization, a NASA oﬂicial, com-
menting on the search for life in space
as related to the fundamental nature
of life, said:

At this stage in the development of
bioscience, the bioscientiﬁc community
ﬁnds the pursuit of these basic discoveries
and the devel0pment of an encompassing
biological theory the most important single
task of the day.

10 JULY 1964

Letters

On page 503 of the same hearings,
another NASA ofﬁcial, replying to a
question about newspaper criticism of
the Apollo program, said:

I think you will ﬁnd there is a growing
body of scientiﬁc opinion which has now
begun to examine in some detail what,
actually, one can do in space. . . . That
growing body of scientiﬁc opinion is that
it is, in fact, not only valuable but es-
sential to have a man to make the selec-

tion to do the geological survey work. . . . ‘

One wonders how these NASA of-
ﬁcials know what the bioscientiﬁc com-
munity is thinking, or how general sci-
entiﬁc opinion views the lunar manned-
spaceflight project. I am not aware of
any polls or questionnaires seeking our
opinions. On pages 1662 and 1663 of
the hearings on the 1964 NASA author—
ization, the chairman of the Subcom-
mittee on Space Sciences says:

As I have said before, I think none of
us really are qualiﬁed to interrogate sci-
entists, because we ourselves are not
scientists. I would say in the ﬁeld of sci-
ence we are probably less informed than
other members of other committees are
informed on the subjects before their com-
mittees. Another real problem which I
see which makes it difﬁcult for this com-
mittee to function properly is that we
never get two sides of the argument. . . .
We don’t have people appearing before
this committee in opposition to the manned
lunar landing program, or the Orbiting
Geophysical Observatory, or the Surveyor
program. or whatever it is.

I would like to suggest a solution to
this problem. Let the congressional com-
mittees invite scientists who are criti-
cal of certain aspects of the space pro-
gram to testify before them.

SOLOMON GARB
Department of Physiology and
Pharmacology, University of Missouri,
Columbia

One-Tailed Test and Other Statistics

The excoriation of the one-tailed test
of signiﬁcance by W. Dixon Ward
(29 May, p. 1089) underscores the
fact that authors and teachers of sta-
tistics have somehow failed to make

propriate. It is not “a ploy in which the
researcher claims partial precognition

.”; it is the appropriate statistical
procedure when the research worker
is interested only in a unidirectional
effect.

When a treatment is being investi-
gated in which there is an equal in-
terest in an increase or a decrease re-
sulting from its application, a sym-
metrical (in the probability sense) two-
tailed test is required. If more interest
is associated with, say, an increase, an
asymmetrical two-tailed test would be
apprOpriate. When all the interest is
focused on, say, an increase, the ex-
treme of an asymmetrical test, a one-
tailed test of signiﬁcance, is the pro-
cedure of choice. Thus when the ex-
perimenter cares only whether treat-
ment X produces an increase in Y
or no effect. and does not care about a
decrease in Y, a one-tailed test is
appropriate, correct. and optimum.

The only “abomination” is the a
posteriori selection of a one-tailed test;
and, if the reader feels so inclined, he
can transform this into a two-
tailed test by the simple expedient of
doubling the signiﬁcance level quoted
by the experimenter.

LLOYD S. NELSON
General Electric Lamp Division,
Cleveland, Ohio 44112

In response to W. D. Ward’s letter
I happily stand up to be counted as
one of “those who go farther and say
that the gathering of data must be pre—
ceded by a speciﬁc experimental hy-
pothesis.” Physicians are generally
among those who believe that once a
phenomenon has been observed it is
fact and truth forever after. Conse-
quently a sample size of one is sufﬁ-
cient. Such abominations as probability.
inference, tests of signiﬁcance, distri-
bution theory, are all worthless window
dressing, and who needs statistics (or
statisticians) anyway?

While it is obvious that statistics is
no panacea for poorly organized “re-
search data,” it is nevertheless a useful
tool which most logical-minded. objec-
tive researchers embrace. When a sci-
entist and a statistician talk over a
problem (discuss an experimental de-
sign), aspects of the problem are very
often uncovered which might have
gone undetected had not the statisti—
cian needed to ask questions in order

[better to understand what it is the

scientist is trying to learn. Often a
statistician will be able to point out

109

clear just when this procedure is ap-

    

 
   
  
  
  
    
  
   
   
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  
    
   
   
 
 
  
    
    
   
    
   
    
 
   
   
    
    
  
   
   
   
  
   
  
   
   
  
  
   
  
 

  
  




 

 

 

 

 

 

Scientific Apparatus 8: Instruments

DEDKMAN INSTRUMENTS, INC.
42 NEW SALES AND SERVICE OFFICES

NOW SERVING THE
UNITED STATES AND CANADA

pH Meters 0 pH Electrodes

UV Spectrophotometers

IR Spectrophotometers
Oxygen Analyzers and Electrodes
Laboratory Gas Chromatographs

Blood Gas Analyzers - Solution Metering
Pumps - Pycnometers - Fluorometers
Recorders

 

 

 

ALBUQUERQUE

42000 Silver Avenue, S.E.
Albuquerque, New Mexico ....505-265-8511

ATLANTA
5765 Peachtree Industrial Boulevard
Chambiee, Georgia .......... 404-451-3574

BATON ROUGE
1821 Wooddale Court, Room 119
Baton Rouge, Louisiana ...... 504-926-5085
BOSTON
Lakeside Office Building
591 North Avenue
Wakefield, Massachusetts . . . .617-245-6800
BUFFALO
2451 Wehrle Drive
Buffalo 21, New York ........ 716-634-3777
CHARLESTON
Suite 301, Nelson Building
1018 Kanawha Boulevard
Charleston 1. West Virginia ..304-344-3591
CHICAGO
7360 North Lincoln Avenue

Lincolnwood 46, Illinois ...... 312-583-1020
CINCINNATI
10 Knollcrest Drive, (Reading)
Cincinnati 37, Ohio ......... 513-761-9560
CLEVELAND

Suburban-West Building
20800 Center Ridge Road, (Rocky River)
Cleveland 16, Ohio .......... 216-333-3587
DALLAS
2600 Stemmons Freeway
Dallas, Texas .............. 214-637-1640
DENVER
3835 Elm Street
Denver 7, Colorado .......... 303-399-2616
DES MOINES
P.0. Box 599
Des Moines, Iowa ......... . .515-244-2228
DETROIT
24755 Five Mile Road
Detroit 39, Michigan ........ 313-538-5990
DURHAM
Office 911, Central Carolina
Bank Building, 111 Corcor-an Street
Durham, North Carolina ...... 919-682-5747
FULLERTON (HEADQUARTERS)
2500 Harbor Boulevard
Fullerton, California . . .
HONOLULU
P.0. Box 8625
Honolulu, Hawaii 96815 . . . ....... 503-723
HOUSTON
5810 Hilicroft Avenue
Houston 36, Texas ...... . .713-781-0810
INDIANAPOLIS
PO Box 40265
Indianapolis 40, lndiana ...... 317-255-5821
JACKSONVILLE
Spaces 2-E and 2-F, 1914 Beachway Road
Jacksonville, Florida ........ 305-359-2358
KANSAS CITY
Room 202
601.6 Troost Avenue ,
Kansas City, Missouri ........ 816-444-0559
1.05 ANCELES
2400 Harbor Boulevard
fullerton, California .. . . . . . . .714-871-4757

. . . . .714-871-4848

110

 

MILWAUKEE
.0. Box 4127
P Milwaukee, Wisconsin ..... (414) BR 1-7060
MINNEAPOLIS
005 Cedar Lake Road
5 Minneapolis 16, Minnesota ...612-377-8771
NEW ORLEANS
Rooms 215 and £17"
4435 Veterans g way
Metalrie, Louisiana .......... 504-831-2631
NEW YORK it R d
US. Highway 22 @ Summ oa
Mountainside, New Jersey . . . .201-232-7600
PHILADELPHIA
1 Bala Avenue
Baia Cynwyd, Pennsylvania .. .215-839-3844
PHOENIX
51108 North Seventh Street
Phoenix 14, Arizona ......... 602-277-4755
PITTSBURGH
950 Greentree Road
Pittsburgh 20, Pennsylvania ..412-921-1530
PORTLAND
Room 119, Morrow Building
811 East Burnside
Portland, Oregon ........... 503-234-0646
RICHMOND
808 Westover Road
Richmond, Virginia ......... 703-359-4671
ROCKWOOD
P.0. Box 314
Rockwood, Tennessee ....... 615-354-1643
ST. LOUIS
5461 Highland Park Drive
St. Louis, Missouri .......... 314-371-5900
SALT LAKE CITY

Rooms 164 and 165
Valley Professional Building
2520 South State Street

Salt Lake City 15, Utah ...... 801-467-5471
SAN DIEGO
San Diego, California ........ 714-232-2540

SAN FRANCISCO
2400 Wright Avenue
Richmond, California ........ 415-526-7730
SEATTLE
11658 Northeast Eighth Street
Bellevue, Washington ........ 206-454-9528
SPOKANE
P.0. Box 2191
Spokane, Washington ...... (509) FA 7-4261
TULSA
Suite #3
4021 South Harvard Building
Tulsa, Oklahoma ............ 918-743-4001
WASHINGTON, O.C.
12051 Tech Road
Silver Spring, Maryland ...... 301-622-2500

CANADIAN SALES OFFICES
CALGARY
1431 Kensington Road
Calgary, Alberta, Canada .. . . .403-283-5591
MONTREAL
2626 Bates Road
Montreal 26, P.Q., Canada . . . .514-735-1376
TORONTO
901 Oxford Street
Toronto 18, Ontario, Canada ..416-251-5251
VANCOUVER
1900 Lonsdale Avenue
North Vancouver, O.C., Canada 604-985-5347

Beckman iNSTRUMENTS. th.

SCIENTIFIC AND PROCESS
INSTRUMENTS DIVISION
FULLERTON, CALIFORNIA . 92634
INTERNATIONAL SUBSIDIARIES' GENEVA
. , swnzan -
:zNICH, GERMANY; otennorass, scoruuo; xiii?
ANCE; tom/o, JAPAN; capsrown, soura AFRICA.

. Adolf A.
[kill of Hit-

 

 

 

(i) how the same information can be
collected with less time and money or
(ii) how, with the same time and
money. it will be possible to gather
more information.

I know that many researchers haVe
been burned by statistics and will for-
ever stay away, Human nature being
what it is I can‘t blame them, but
unfortunately these people are often in
u ptisliltill to influence others less

I hiasetl than lhe\. and consequently a

great many scientists never even try to
we how statistics can help them in
their work. . . .

I’Ii'riER W. FINKEL
.‘ltjl‘ft‘ll/Ilfl'tl/ Restore/i .Sir'rl'ir‘t’.
(KS. [)ylrtll'lnlt'll! of Agriculture,
II'uv/iiriiglurr 35. I).( '.

(‘ulra

A numher of opinions adverse to
Ilerle's review i24 Jan., p.
.‘l/willft' Aye have ap-
peared in your columns. It may not be
superfluous. tlieretote. to comment that
at least this remit-r appreciated the
ahsencc oi slogan» in his premises, his
incisive logic. anti the inspiration he
received from the review for thinking

» not hased on cliches.

I also would lll.L‘ to draw attention

.10 ’lheotlore Draper's article in the
1 New Lem/er til 37' April. which con-

tradicts the notion of ('astro as "agra-
rian reformer” more effectively than
any article that I Call recall contradicted
the similar character of the Chinese
communists before the ﬁnal denoue-
ment. Rahinowiteh tl,ettcrs. 22 May,
p. 953) seems to have overlooked this
article.

lit'otzrsr. P. WIGNER
Princeton (’rtri't'r‘si'rt',
Prim‘t’trm. .Vt’ti‘ Jt‘r'sr'y

Coauthors and Gentlemen

D. J. de Solla Price's delightfully

| Written article on the ethics of screnttﬁfj
l publication (8 May. p. (155) Contame

a statement which i wish were n0t
”UC- “ . there is now at least ten
times as much value in being listed ﬁrst
on the hy-line as there is in being any-
Where else on the . . . list."

Price's predecessor at Yale. 10h“
Faquhar Fulton. convinced me in 193.0
that gentlemen publish with names In
alphabetic order. With few exceptlons’

SCIENCE. \‘OL- ‘45

 




 

 

 

 

Ultraviolet Instruments & Accessories

MODEL DII® SPECTRDPHOTOMETER

A precision quartz prism, null-balance ultraviolet
instrument unsurpassed for transmittance and
absorbance measurements in the. wavelength
range from 200 to 1000 mu. Modular construction
provides optimum flexibility. Modules include
Iamphouse, monochromator,‘ cell compartment
and phototube house. Cell compartment may be
thermostatically controlled, and accommodates
four standard absorption cells. Cell holder holds
solid samples or gas or liquid cells. Path length
is from 1mm to 1 cm.

Complete with all basic accessories including
silica cells, cell holder, photomultiplier tube
and housing, red-sensitive phototube, dual source
unit with tungsten lamp and hydrogen discharge
lamp, AC DU power supply, instruction manuals,
and dust cover.

For AC LINE OPERATED MODEL ........ $3,300.00
Other models as low as .............. $2,268.00

 

MODEL DU DIFFUSE REFLECTANCE ATTACHMENT
Measures diffuse reflectance of liquid or solid
samples. Ideally suited for establishing color
standards, matching colors and maintaining color
uniformity. Complete .................. $410.00

MODEL 0U SPECTRAL ENERGY RECORDING
ATTACHMENT

Provides automatic, continuous recording at any
one of five wavelength scanning speeds.
Complete ........................... $875.00

MODEL DU ENERGY RECORDING ADAPTER

Provides for recording energy versus time at fixed
wavelengths. Designed for use with potentio~

metric strip-chart recorder with 1 second response.

Complete ........................... $162.00

MODEL DU FLAME PHOTOMETRY ATTACHMENT

Converts Model DU into finest flame photometry
system available. Specifically designed for rapid
and accurate qualitative and quantitative analyses
of more than 60 elements in aqueous and non-
aqueous solutions. Complete with pressure hoses
and 10,000 megohm load resistor ....... $555.00

MODEL DU FLUORESCENCE ATTACHMENT

Ideal for measuring spectral distribution or
intensity of fluorescent energy in the analysis of
vitamins, steroids, optical bleaches, and other
fluorescent materials. Sensitivity is 5 ppb quinine
sulfate full scale. Complete ............ $395.00

BECKMAN INSTRUMENTS, INC—mm

Sold and serviced directly through .
each of 42 offices throughout the United
States and Canada. Call your local
Sales Engineer for immediate attention
to your UV requirements.

 

 

MODEL DB® SPECTROPHOTDMETER

A Double~Beam Instrument of High Quality

A fine, compact, direct-reading ultraviolet
instrument which provides accuracy and extreme
versatility at a low cost in the range
from 205 to 770 mu.

 

The ideal instrument for precise qualitative and
quantitative analyses in industrial research, med-
ical studies, clinical investigations, and quality
control. The only instrument in its class with vi-
brating mirror assembly that provides true double-
beam operation. Complete with photomultiplier
tube, glass stoppered silica cells, hydrogen dis-
charge lamp, tungsten lamp, opaque block, in
struction manual and dust cover ..... $2,250.00
Other models as low as ............. $2,060.00

MICRO CELLS AND MICRO FLOW CELLS

Now available for use in all spectrophotometers
to measure volumes as small as 50 microliters.
Prices .................... $65.00 to $160.00

LINEAR AND LOG POTENTIOMETRIC RECORDER

Permits strip chart recording in %T or linear
absorbance units. Complete ........... $725.00

MODEL DB DIFFUSE REFLECTANCE ATTACHMENT

An integrating sphere for measurement of diffuse
reflectance of opaque, colored samples in solid,
liquid or powder form. Complete ...... $1,475.00

MODEL 08 SEQUENTIAL SAMPLER
Measures multiple samples with increased speed
and accuracy. Complete .............. $125.00

MODEL DB PROGRAMMER

Automatic repetitive scanning for automatic meas-
urement at preselected wavelengths.
Complete ................. ‘ .......... $775.00

 

 

MODEL 8 SPECTROPHDTOMETER

An easy to operate single-beam direct~reading
instrument providing rapid transmittance and
absorbance measurements in the 320 to 1000
me range. Ideal for rapid, routine measurements.
Complete with sample holder, blue-sensitive photo-
tube, red-sensitive phototube, filter, Pyrex cells,
instruction manual and dust cover . . . .$1,325.00

MODEL B FLAME PHOTOMETRY ATTACHMENT

Similar to the flame attachment for the DU, but
modified to extend the capabilities of the Model
8. Complete .................... . . . .$555.00

MODEL B PHOTOMULTIPLIER ATTACHMENT

Increases sensitivity of the Model B at least 100
times in the wavelength range from 320 to 600
mu. Recommended for use in flame photometry.
Complete .................... . . ..... $320.00

MODEL B DIFFUSE REFLECTANCE ATTACHMENT

An integrating sphere for measurement of diffuse
reflectance of opaque, colored samples in solid,
liquid or powder form. Complete ........ $365.00

 

IMMEDIATE DELIVERY SERVICE

In almost every instance these
Beckman UV instruments and accessories
can be secured with immediate delivery-
many in 24 hours—call your local Beckman

Sales Engineer for full details.

All Beckman Ultraviolet instruments
and accessories are manufactured,
assembled and completely serviced in
the United States for better reliability
and reduced idle instrument time.

Prices subject to change without notice

 

 

 

00.0.6.

DK® RATIO-RECORDING SPECTROPHOTOMETERS

A series of ratio-recording instruments for analyses in the
ultraviolet, visible, near infrared and the far ultraviolet
ranges. Available in either strip chart or flat bed models.
These instruments provide double-beam accuracy and linear
absorbance or linear transmittance presentations. Ideally
suited for product quality control, molecular structure
analyses, and research applications in almost every industry.
Complete DK instruments as low as ............ $8,380.00
Other models up to ......................... $25,000.00

 

THE WORLD'S distribution of fluorescent radiation
emitted by liquid or solid samples,
MOST COMPLETE LINE 0F and for measuring the intensity
of fluorescent energy.

ULTRAVIOLET Complete: $395.00.

SPECTROPHOTOMETERS
AND ACCESSORIES COMPLETE DETAILS AND DATA SHEETS are available by contacting y0ur local Beckman Sales
* Engineer or by writing direct for Data File LUV- 38- I65.

 

INSTRU MENTS', INC.
SCIENTIFIC AND PROCESS INSTRUMENTS DIVISION

FULLERTON, CALIFORNIA . 92634
International Subsidiaries: Geneva, Switzerland; Munich, Germany;
Glenrcthes, Scotland; Paris, France; Tokyo, Japan; Capetown, South Africa.

 

0.0.0.0...0.0..I.O0...OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOCO00.000.00.00.

MODEL DK FLAME
PHOTOMETRY ATTACHMENT
Provides rapid quantitative and
qualitative determinations of many
metals and other substances in
aqueous and nonaqueous solutions.
Complete: $675.00

MODEL DK REFLECTANCE
PHOTOMETER ATTACHMENT
Designed for reflectance and color
measurements of opaque materials,
transmittance analyses, fluorescence
studies, and for measuring the
spectral energy distribution of
luminescent sources.
Complete: $3,000.00

MODEL DK SPECTRAL
FLUORESCENCE ATTACHMENT

For measuring the spectral

0.0.0.0100.00.000000000000000000000000000000000.0000

00000cocoon...oooooooooooooooooaooooooococoon.

 

 

OOOOOOOOOOOOODOOOooooooooouoooooooooocoooooooooooooooooa

 

10 JULY 1964 111

 




         
        
         
    
     
     
     
    
     
       
    
 

 

 

    
    
   
   
   
   
   
   
     

 

 

 

 

 

   
     
   
   
   
   
    

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   
    
 
 
    
   
  
   
 
   
    
  
 
 
 
    
   
 
 
  
   
   

 

 

 

    

 

 

 

 

 

 

each on the insistence of a coauthor,
I have published a fairly long list of
papers in this way. When it seemed de-
sirable, we have footnoted‘the contrl-
bution of each author. This pract1ce
was once common (for example, Creed,
Denny-Brown, Eccles, Liddell, and
Sherrington: Reﬂex Activity of the Spl-
nal Cord, 192), but has apparently be-
come rare as a scientiﬁc ethic. By in-
ference it is even classed as unethical
by my own professional association!
Why not consider a return to such a
civilized custom?

Unhappily, it now appears that Index
Medicus has virtually mandated a non-
alphabetic order for articles with more
than three authors, since the names of
the rest will be omitted (see Letters, 12
June, p. 1295). I hope that the editors
can eventually ﬁnd a way to cite all
authors.

G. R. WENDT
University of Rochester,
Rochester 27, New York.

Behavioral Science Redeﬁned

The title of John L. Kennedy’s re-
view (8 May, p. 683) of Human Be-
havior—An Inventory of Scientiﬁc
Findings, by Berelson and Steiner, was
most appropriate. “But what are the
behavioral sciences?” is a question of
increasing interest. Like many others,
the authors of the book under review
have deﬁned the behavioral sciences as
“those sciences that deal directly with
human behavior” (our italics). Seman-
tic diﬁiculties aside, we feel that there
is danger in such a narrow deﬁnition
and that no particular advantage is to
be gained by limiting the scope of the
behavioral sciences to the study of one
species.

Granted that human behavior is, in
many ways, vastly different from that
of other animals; nevertheless, a great
deal of our present understanding of
its underlying mechanisms has come
from the study of other species. The
danger in restricting the scope of the
behavioral sciences is that this will tend
to further isolate psychology, sociology,
and anthropology from other disciplines
concerned less directly with human be-
havior.

The oncoming scientiﬁc attack in the
ﬁeld of behavior should be as broadly
based and as widely integrated as pos-
sible. It would be to the advantage of
all concerned if this were formally rec-
ognized by the inclusion of relevant

112

ethology, ecology, physiology, neurolo-

gy, . .
forth within the realm of the behavnoral

comparative psychology, and so

sciences.
A. J. READING

C. H. Souruwrck
R. L. PliNNliY
School of Hygiene and Public Health,
Johns Hopkins University,
Baltimore, Maryland

White House Dinner

In a box headed “Science and so-
ciety: White House tea for Academy
wives” (1 May, p. 514), Elinor Langer
detects warm feelings radiating to-
ward science from the Johnson admin-
istration. Let us hope this omen. “‘11
for the wives, speaks true love of sci-
ence, but let us also keep the record
straight. During the Eisenhower reign.
E.L. says, “scientists were not con-
sidered very good company, and the
appearance of one at a party would
have been as surprising as a photo of
Ike embracing Mao.”

Actually it was Ike who made the
grandest social gestures on behalf of
scientists. Truman had invited the mem-
bers of the National Academy of
Sciences to the White House one after-
noon, where they shook his hand and
carried on a lively banter as only Harry
could conduct it. But Ike really went
overboard. In the middle of January
1958 a couple of dozen scientists re-
ceived engraved invitations to attend
a state dinner on 4 February. Ike had
expressed to his science adviser. James
R. Killian, the desire to become better
acquainted with some of the scientists
of the country.

In white tie and tails, amid notables
in government and the military, the
scientists trooped to the White House
to be honored with high pomp and
much circumstance. They got the full
treatment.

An aide took your coat at the
front door and led you forward to
Inspect a large plan of the seating ar-
rangements for dinner. He also handed
you a card with the name of your
d1nner companion. Then he led you to
the door of the East Room, where you
were announced, loud and clear, over

a public-address system. This was the
traumatic moment.

Once you were inside, however, the
famtllar faces of colleagues eased the
shock, whereupon anxiety gave way to
fellowship. When all were assembled~

some 47 couples—the Eisenhowersi.
entered and shook hands with the .
guests as they formed a line and pro.
ceeded to the dining room. A magnif-
icent dinner was eaten with the aid
of gold forks. knives, and Spoons in
full array. ’lhe wines rose through

four stages from sherry to Champagne,

After dinner the men followed Ike
to a reception room. for cigars, coffee,
and talk. 'l‘lie talk was mostly about .‘
satellites our first small success
with one. 'lhe President asked many
sharp questions and told how he had
stayed up late to hear the news on the
night of the launching.

The evening \\ as capped by a warm
and hilarious performance by Anna
Russell. By the time the Eisenhowers
said good night and took the elevator
upstairs, a hand of this country’s scien-
tists could rightlully claim the heady
lceling appreciated in

and

experience of
high places. ,,
S. S. STEVENS
I,(1/)m'utm'_\' (if l’x\'(‘lmpl1ysi(‘S,
Harvard I'nii‘t-rxity, Cambridge 38

African A rehival Guide:

Contributions Invited

The National Historical Publications 5
(‘ommission is sponsoring the prepara- ..
tion of a comprehensive guide to docu-
mentary sources. in the United StateS,
of African history. An interdisciplinary
group of Alrieanists chosen by the
African Studies Association is servmg

as advisory committee“. a grant for

production of the guide has been made
bV the Ford foundation. Complete In
itself. the guide will also serve as the
U5. volume in the projected Guide
’0 lllt’ Sources” of .-tfri(‘(m History spon-
sored by the L?\'liSCO-aﬂiliated Inter-
national ("ouncil of Archives.

To ma\imi7e the coverage, I WORM
aPPI'Cciate receiVing from readers 13‘
formation concerning the nature an
location in this country of little-known
3TChiVal and manuscript sources re-
lating to Africa~——particularly Sourcés
not likely to have been described In
the standard ﬁnding-aid literature 01"-
if there described. not identiﬁed as re-
lated to Africa. Africa is here d9 net
as the entire continent plus the adjacenr
coastal islands (including Madagascao
and the Mascarenes). There are n

0., . .‘ . s.
chronological linumttonMORRIS RIEeER
National A r(‘lll\'(’S and Records Servwei
Washington, D_(‘.

45
SCIENCE. VOL 1

 

 




   
  

 

WHAT IT IS: The Poncho is a spun aluminum safety shield for usewith
Glas-Col high-wattage heating mantles. The Poncho/Mantle method of
high temperature processing of ﬂammable liquids is unequaled for safety
. . in the lab . . or in all—glass plants where growing use of large QWVF
glass ﬂasks has made ultimate safety an absolute must.

WHAT IT DOES: The Poncho protects mantles from spillover, ﬂasks
from falling objects, personnel from ﬂying glass in cases of implos1on or
explosion. And it serves as an efﬁcient heating top.

PROOF: To prove its safety, we ﬁt a glass ﬂask and Glas-Col quartz
heating mantle with a Glas-Col Poncho safety shield . . brought to 650°C
at full wattage . . then drenched it with ether, acetone, gasoline. We could
not produce a ﬁre.

REASON: The Poncho actually seals the ﬂask into the mantle, greatly
reducing ﬁre hazards. Nitrogen purging further reduces danger when usmg
ﬂasks 12 liters and larger.

Write for descriptive Poncho Bulletin . . which includes facts on Glas-Col's new
Splash G uard* designed for smaller, low-wattage mantle and flask protection. Poncho/
Mantle combinations available for flasks 500 ml to 200 liters, single or multiple neck.

Trademark Reg. U.S. Patent Office. U.S. Patents 2,231,506; 2,739,220; 2,739,221 and 2,282,078. 'Patents pending.

PROCESS H0 r HAM/WA 3155 mm SEALED-Ill! ‘
SAFETY... WITH THE NEW GM 3-001ae

PUNUII

the safety shie/dthat seals the flask. into the heating mantle

 

Silicone rubber Poncho spun
seals provide \ aluminum
airtight grip safety shield.
around flask

neck and

mantle.

IilAE-I'JIII.

HEATING MANTLES

Glas-Col Apparatus Company
Dept. SC. 711 Hulman Street 0 Terre Haute, Indiana,

‘1

 

   

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Single-Stage
ICT
Accelerators

Development of higher energy Van de Graafi
particle accelerators which retamhrgh beam
precision, stability, and homogeneity,“rema1ns
a continuing contribution by HVEC to energy-
oriented” research. .

To provide even greater freedom of. expert-
mentation, HVEC is also anticipating the

 

need for the higher 100
beam intensities
required in power-
oriented research proj-
ects. Invented by Dr. 3
R. J. Van de Graaff, i

E

3

/

 

i SINGLE-STAG! .
ICT j

    

 

 

 

 

the new Insulating
Core Transformer
(ICT) accelerator now
provides high beam
currents with all the
desirable beam char- ‘00]

 

 

 

 

 

Two types of single stage ICT accelerators
have been developed for research use. The ﬁrst
incorporates an ICT power source coupled to
the acceleration assembly through a coaxial
cable.

232:2? ciltiihiiliii TANK HEIGHT TANK DIAMETER

(KeV) (Analyzed) Feet Meters Feet Meters
ICT 300 300 15 mA 4’4” 1.32 4 1.2
ICT 500 500 10 mA 5’3” 1.60 4 1.2

 

THE ICT CONCEPT:

new high-current machines
emerging from HVEC research

acteristics of Van de (iraaff machines. As the
graph shows, the high power levels available
frotn the ICT accelerattn- now make POSSible a
new realm of precision experimentation,

The Insulating Core Transformer

The ICT is essentially a three-phase power
transformer with multiple secondaries, each of
which is insulated from the other. Rectiﬁed
current from the secondaries is series-connected
to achieve total vultgttgt'. In the ICT, electro-
static and elet‘trotnagnetie fields exist in the
531110 space, as (‘()ntl‘.tstt‘(l to the conditions in a

eoventional translotmet The result is a highly

efﬁcient dc power stunt e ( apable of stable oper-

ation at elevated potentials and power levels.
A number of ICT .ntelerators and power

generation systems are now available.

The second system utilizes a rigid transmis-
sion line to transmit electrical power to the
accelerator terminal.

ENERGY DIMENSIONS
4 MeV ICT (MeV) CURRENT Length
Feet Meters
Positive Ions ' 1.5.4 3 mA 26'6” 8.08
Electron Conver5ton 15.3 10 mA 26’6” 8.08
3 MeV ICT
Electrons 1.5-3 20 mA 29' 3-3“

 

8 MeV ICT Tandem
Accelerator

ICT Electron
Processing
Systems

Series 7 ICT
Power Supplies

The 8 MeV ICT Tandem provides proton
energies continuously variable from 3 to 8 MeV
at a maximum guaranteed beam current of
2,uA. The ICT power source is capable of pro-
viding 12 mA at 4 mv which, in combination

Developed primarily as high-current sources
of electrons for industrial processing applica-
tions, these systems allow extreme flexibility of
operation. Two models are available: 300 kv
at 30 mA maximum beam current and 500 kv
at 20 mA maximum beam current.

 

114

4____—

with newly developed ( (unponents emerging
from HVEC, will enable the accelerator to keep
pace with future I‘t‘sr‘.’n‘( h requirements. Thf3 8
MeV Tandem is (‘Onw'l tihle to single-Stage ion
or electron operation.

E
g

___/

Available with output ratings rangmg from
240 kv at 80 mA to 600 kv at 20 mA, the“:
highly Stab]? power sources are suitable for Us
in high energy beam separator systemsahi‘h
transmission systems, plasma research and 1g
voltage testing programs.

/

 

    

 

 

no.3)

ICT equipment has crossed many barriers to
dc operatzonat high particle energies and cur
rents. There is no indication that a ceilin exist-
to further advances of similar importanfe S

.' o
For detailed information, please \AI‘ltiirtg
Technical Sales, High Voltage Engmee
Corporation, Burlington, Massachusetts.

HIGH VOLTAGE
ENGINEERIN

45
SCIENCE, VOL. 1

    

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

l0 July 1964, Volume 145, Number 3628

AMERICAN ASSOCIATION FOR
THE ADVANCEMENT OF SCIENCE

Science serves its readers as a forum for
the presentation and discussion of impor-
tant issues related to the advancement of
science, including the presentation of mi-
nority or conﬂicting points of view, rather
than by publishing only material on which
a consensus has been reached. Accordingly,
all articles published in Science—including
editorials, news and comment, and book
reviews—«are signed and reﬂect the indi-
vidual views of the authors and not ofﬁcial
points of View adopted by the AAAS or
the institutions with which the authors are
afﬁliated.

Editorial Board

MELVIN CALVIN NEAL E. MILLER
ERNEST COURANT PHILIP M. MORSE
FARRINGTON DANIELS COLIN S. PITTENDRIGH
JOHN T. EDSALL KENNETH S. PITzER
DAVID R. GODDARD DEWITT STETTEN, JR.
ALEXANDER HOLLAENDER WILLIAM L. STRAUS, JR.
ROBERT JASTRow EDWARD L. TATUM
EDWIN M. LERNER II JOHN R. WINCKLER
WILLARD F. LIBBY CLARENCE M. ZENER

Editorial Staff

Editor
PHILIP H. ABELSON

Publisher Business Manager
DAEL WOLFLL’ HANS NUSSBAUM

Managing Editor: ROBERT V. ORMES

Assistant Editors: ELLEN E. MURPHY, JOHN
E. RINGLE

Assistant to the Editor: NANCY TEIMOURIAN

News and Comment: DANIEL S. GREENBERG.
JOHN WALSH, ELINOR LANCER,.MARION ZEIGER,
ROSEMARY GALLI

Europe. VICTOR K. MCELHBNY, Flat 3,18
Kensington Court Place, London, W.,8 England
(Western 5360)

Book Reviews: SARAH S. DEEs

Editorial Assistants: ISABELLA BOULDIN, ELEANORE
BUTZ, SYLVIA EBERHART, GRAYCE FINGER, NANCY
HAMILTON, OLIVER HEATWOLE, ANNE HOLDSWORTH,
MARCIA ISAAK, RUTH KINGERLEE, HOWARD NATHEN-
SON, EDGAR RICH

Advertising Staff

Director Production Manager
EARL J. SCHERAGO RAYMONDE SALAMA

Sales: New York, N..,Y 11 W. 42 St. (212-PE-
6- -:1858) RICHARD L. CHARLES, ROBERT S. BUGBEE

Scotch Plains. N.J., 12 Unami Lane (201- 889-
4873): C. RICHARD CALLIs

Chicago, 111., 6 W. Ontario St. (312-DE—7-4973):
HERBERT BURRLAND

Los Angeles 45, Calif" 8255 Beverly Blvd.
(213—653-9817); WINN NANCE

EDITORIAL CORRESPONDENCE: 1515 Massa-
chusetts Ave., NW, Washington, D. C. 20005.
Phone: 202-387-7171. Cable: Advancesci
Washington. Copies of “Instructions for Contribu-
tors” can be obtained from the editorial Ofﬁce.
ADVERTISING CORRESPONDENCE. Rm. 1740,
11 W. 42 St.. New York, N..Y 10036. Phone:
212-PE 6- 1858 ’ '

 

SCIENCE

A Special Opportunity

One of President Johnson’s ﬁrst acts of initiative concerned the
employment of women in government. At a cabinet meeting last
January the President made it clear that he felt the government was
wasting a “national resource” by treating women as second— class
citizens. Since that time he has appointed or promoted more than
1000 women to jobs paying more than $10,000 a year.

This action by President Johnson indicates alert recognition of a -
special opportunity for Improving our society. We have been curiously
unresponsive to the profound effects which the technological revolu—
tion has had on the lives of women. The median life expectancy of
females has steadily increased. At the same time, family planning
has become more effective. Not so long ago the median age of
mothers at the birth of the last child was 32 years; it now has
dropped to 26. The average mother of today is likely to live for 50
years after she gives birth to her last child—a drastic change from
two generations ago!

In primary and secondary school, girls are often better students
than boys. Thereafter many become preoccupied with acquiring a
husband, and intellectual activities become secondary. After marriage
a few happy years of family life ensue, but all too soon the children
are in school and already more than half lost to the parents. When
the children have left home, women in the middle 40’s often ﬁnd that
they have little 'rOle in the world. They feel insecure and face 30
years of life without signiﬁcant purpose. . 1

In contrast, at this time the career‘mother blossoms. In the' June
issue of the Ladies Home Journal, Betty 'Friedan cites studies which '
indicate that “women .who pursue a conscious. goal for their life ex-
pressed in creative work reach the height of their human powers in
the last half of their life, long after the so-called bloom of physical
maturity.” She further states, “I could see this as I went around the
country seeking them out. They all looked ten to twenty years
younger than they were—not in the embalmed sense of a woman who
dyes, (diets, and tries to hide her age with makeup, but in the very
bloom of eyes and skin, and a kind of vitality that burned inside.”
Perhaps Miss Friedan exaggerates, but we have all seen vitality and
bloom in older women who have broad intellectual interests.

At present there are many barriers against the full training and
utilization of women in professions, especially in science. The early
educational process takes mainly into account the brief span of active
motherhood. Women are often discouraged from taking science courses
in college. If they do obtain training, they are likely to be offered jobs
not commensurate with their capacities. Once married, they have lim—
ited opportunities for part-time work during'the years of motherhood.
The income tax laws impose a discouraging additiOnal burden. When
their maternal responsibilities have ended, they are likely to ﬁnd
that their professional training is obsolescent and that it is not easy
to get back into the mainstream of science. Removal of some or any
of these obstacles could result in a substantial increase in the number
of women active in science, with results beneﬁcial both to Society and
to the individuals concerned—PHILIP H. ABELSON‘

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

TMC Instruments for every Pulse Analysis Requirement

For Multichannel Pulse Height Analysis

For replacement of single-channel
scanning spectrometers in routine
biology, physics and chemistry lab use
. . . 100-CHANNEL GAMMASCOPE
pulse height analysis system with built—
in linear ampliﬁer, single-channel pulse
height selector, detector high voltage
supply, magnetic core memory . . .
$5990 including digital printer (F.O.B.
North Haven, export slightly higher).

 

For ﬁeld or laboratory applications in
health physics, geological surveys,
medical, chemical and physics labora-
tories where broad. operating capabili-
ties and compactness are important
. . . 400—SERIES, 400-channel pulse
height analyzers with Optional equip-
ment for resolving and integrating data
with digital or analog readout. Models
also available with inputs for Moss-
bauer effect studies.

116

  

 

The TMC line of pulse analysis instrumentation
covers virtually every requirement. In addition to
individual instruments, TMC oﬁers totally inte-
grated pulse analysis systems. This concept of
providing complete instrumentation, from one
source, under one guarantee and one service or-
ganization eliminates interfacing problems and
assures that new elements will be compatible
with existing systems.

Speciﬁcations, optional equipment and system
capabilities are fully described in a series of tech—
nical bulletins. Contact any of the TMC ofﬁces
listed below or write Technical Measurement
Corporation, 441 Washington Avenue, North
Haven, Connecticut.

DOMESTIC: Gardena, Calif.; Burlingame, Calif.-, La Grange,
Ill.; Silver Spring, Md.; Stoneham, Mass; White Plains,
N. Y.; Oak Ridge, Tenn.; Dallas, Texas.

IN CANADA: Allan Crawford Associates, Ltd, 4 Finch Ave-
nue, W., Willowdale, Ontario, Canada.

IN EUROPE: Technical Measurement Corporation, Cmbll,
Mainzer Landstrasse 51, Frankfurt/Main, Germany.

IN JAPAN: Nichimen Company, Ltd., Muromachi, Nihon-
bashi, Chuo-Ku, Central P.0. Box #1136, Tokyo, Japan.

For General Nuclear Use

 

In 1959 TMC produced the first transistorized
multichannel analyzer with plug-in logic . . . the
CN-110 256-channel pulse analyzer still used
throughout the world. Plug-in logic torthe CN-110
and the CN-1024 (1024-channel model) includes
units for pulse height analysis, pulsed neutron
studies, time-ot-ﬂight and tor sampling a wide
range of analog signals for digital conversion. A
choice of readouts is available.

For Multi-Parameter Pulse Analyses

 

For complex multi
' -parameter, multi-det
pulse_height analyses, time-ot-ﬂight studieseztod
crombinations of both . . . LARGE MEMORY SYnS
052A: Vwhit? 1034-, 4096- or 16,384-channel mem-
_ . e c oice of plug-in modules t ' -
I t O

‘clicspl’ay, multi-input routing, pulse sorting 122::
If EZnOeTai sgjtem design and “add-on" flexibility
pose igital computers t '.
parameter analysis interest you, ask agbuTUclJtti-r

soon-to-be-announced SPIDAR system

 

 

 

For laboratories needing a rapid, inex-
pensive, highly accurate method of per-
forming analytical analysis... ACTIVA-
TRON Model 210 (2 x1010 n/sec.) or 111
(1 x10” n /sec.) low cost, sturdy Cockroft-
Walton Linear Accelerator designed to
produce 14 MEV neutrons from the D-
reaction. Activation analysis SYStemS
with sample transfer equipment available
with choice of TMC pulse height analyz-
ers and readout units.

For Nuclear Particle Detection

    

For multi-detector experiments and “'9“
resolution detection of high energy pro‘;
tonS. beta particles and other charge
particles. . .souo STATE LITHIUM
DRIFT DETECTORS available in 5 Sells"
tive areas — 20 to 500 mm? an
nesses - % to 5 mm. Dead layer less
than 1 micron. For complete particle e
tection systems, TMC offers a new
Pliﬁer-coincidence system an
solid state detector preampliﬁers.

. [MC TECHNICALMEASUREMENT coneonmon

SCIENCE, VOL' 145

 




 

 

 

10 July 1964, Volume 145, Number 3628

Economics and the Quality of Life

In this paper I suggest the social
problems, and therewith the political
tasks, which become moSt important
with a relatively advanced state of eco-
nomic development. These tasks are, I
believe, of special importance to sci-
entists; their accomplishment places
some special responsibility on the sci-
entist.

To see the. issues in proper perspec-
tive one must have in mind the rela-
tion of economic circumstance to so-
cial thought and therewith to political
action. In the poor society this rela-
tionship is powerful and rigid. For
various reasons the rich society con-
tinues to assume that economic condi-
tion must be the dominant inﬂuence
on social thought and action. This as-
sumption becomes, in turn, a barrier
to rational thought and needed action.
It is exploited by vested intellectual
and pecuniary interests. Let me sum-
marize the matter brieﬂy (1).

Economic circumstance has a domi-
nant inﬂuence on social attitudes in
the poor society because, for those
who are poor, nothing is so important
as their poverty and nothing is so im—
portant as its mitigation. In conse-
quence, only religion, with, among other
things, its promise of later reward for
enduring privation with patience, has
had a competitive position. And since

 

Professor Galbraith is the Paul M. Warburg
professor of economics at Harvard University. An
earller version of this paper was given as the
AAAS Distinguished Lecture at the annual meet-
ing of the American Association for the Ad-

vancement of Science, Cleveland, Ohio, 27 De-
cember 1963.

10 JULY 1964

John Kenneth Galbraith

for nearly all time nearly all people have
lived under the threat of economic
privation, men of all temperament and
Views have stressed the controlling and
permanent inﬂuence of economic need
on social attitude. “The modes of pro-
duction of material life determine the
general character of the social, politi-
cal, and intellectual processes of life”
(2). “Here and there the ardour of
the military or the artistic spirit has
been for a while predominant; but re-
ligious and economic inﬂuences . .
have nearly always been more impor-
tant than all others put together” (3).
In the poor society not only do
economic considerations dominate so-
cial attitudes but they rigidly specify
the problems that will be accorded
priority. Under conditions of scarcity
and human privation there is obvious
need to get as much as possible out
of the productive resources that are
available—to use the labor, capital,
natural resources and intelligence of the
community with maximum eﬂiciency.
Such effort enlarges the supply of
goods and thus mitigates the most
pressing problem of the society, which
is the scarcity of needed things. There
is similar concern over who gets the
revenues from production and who
thus can buy what is produced, for
one 'man’s undue advantage will be
another man’s painful deprivation. Thus
the two classical concerns of norma-
tive economics—how to increase pro-
ductive efﬁciency and how to reconcile
this with distributive equity—are the
natural consequence of general poverty.

SCIENCE

In the past in poor communities
those whom feudal prerogative, sangui-
nary appropriation, personal fortune,
exceptional personal accomplishment or
military or political success exempted
from the common privation quickly be-
came subject to non-economic preoc-
cupations—military adventure, political
entrepreneurship, artistic patronage,
sexual achievement, social intercourse,
horsemanship. Accomplishment in
these pursuits and diversions became,
indeed, an index of economic emanci-
pation. Increased well-being of people
at large also loosens the grip of eco-
nomics on social attitudes. Improved
eﬂiciency no longer mitigates physical
pain and privation. The person who
gets more does not of necessity im-
pose. suffering on the person who gets
less. However, economic compulsions
continue to have a highly inﬂuential
bearing on social attitudes and political
behavior in the generally aﬂ’luent com-
munity. Although they release their ab-
solute grip, economic goals retain,
nonetheless, much of their original
prestige.

This is partly for reasons of tradi-
tion. Economic goals having so long
been considered paramount, they have
come to be considered immutable.
Economists have also long equated
physical with psychic need; for many
years none might pass a Ph.D. exami-
nation who said that the wish of a
poor family for shelter was superior in
urgency to the wish of a well-to-do
family for a shelter that outshone that
of the family next door. To do so was
to interpose unscientiﬁc judgments and
invite immediate discredit. Psychic need
being on a parity with physical need,
the urgency of increased production,
and thus of the economic problem, was
not supposed to diminish with increased
well—being.

Economics also retains its grip on
social attitudes because of compassion-
ate appeal to the problem of the man
who is unemployed or, to a lesser but
growing extent, a. member of a racially
less-privileged group. As living stand-
ards have risen, consumption has
pressed less insistently on income. Fail-

117

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ure to offset the resulting savings came
to mean unemployment. Against the
well-being of the. majority had thus to
be set the misfortune of those whom
increasing affluence left without work
and reliable income. And this disad-
vantage, it has come more recently to
be observed, is suffered in special mea-
sure by Negroes and other minority
groups. So even though improvement
in living standards might be less ur-
gent, improvement in economic per-
formance to provide jobs for the un-
employed and the minorities remained
of high importance and appeals to this
purpose have a high moral content.
Increasingly the purpose of the econo-
my has become not the goods it pro-
duces but the jobs it provides.

Economic goals are also strongly, if
not always visibly, supported by vested
interest. The prestige of important
groups in the community depends on
the priority accorded to their function.
If nothing is so important as produc-
tion no one is as important as the
producer—the businessman. If other
goals take precedence so do other peo-
ple. The importance of economic goals
for the prestige of the economist needs
scarcely to be emphasized.

But economic goals accord even
more practical support to vested posi-
tion. If such goals are paramount, pub-
lic issues will be decided according to
economic tests. These are much more
uncomplicated than other tests. A road
can be put through a park, a monu-
ment replaced by an earning asset, a
greenbelt turned over to industry or
housing, a change in work rules re-
sisted, a welfare measure rejected on a
simple showing of economic effect. This
is a great advantage to those identiﬁed
with economic activity. Different goals
would lead to a different—and also less
predictable—decision with different
beneﬁts and other beneﬁciaries.

Finally economic goals remain im-
portant for the vacuum they ﬁll. A
society must have a purpose. The most
obvious and tangible purpose is to pro-
duce goods for private consumption.
The annual increase in this production
can then be a measure of national vig-
or. That is the measure we now em-
ploy.

We are allowed occasional doubts
about our present measures of national
achievement. And there are anomalies
that are a triﬂe embarrassing. As more
basic requirements are ﬁlled, expansion
naturally occurs in less urgent items.
There is diminished emphasis on steel

118

or bread grains (these, or the capa-
city for producing them, may even b?
redundant) and more on electric golt
carts and electric toothbrushes. QUCS-
tions may arise—as I have noted on
other occasions—whether national Vig-
or is to be measured by ability to have
dental hygiene without muscular ellort
or athletic endeavor while sitting down.
Economic growth is a measure of stern
devotion to national goals. Growth con—
sists increasingly of items of luxury
consumption. Thus we perform the con-
siderable feat of converting the enjoy-
ment of luxury into an index of national
virtue. This arouses at least some
doubts.

We are allowed concern, also, as to
whether all of the important tasks of
the society, economic and non-econom-
ie, are being equally well-performed.
The contrast between public penury and
private affluence is increasingly re-
marked. Finally a few may have specu-
lated as to why individuals. as they
achieve higher levels of well-being.
should escape from economic preoc-
cupations while a nation. passing up-
ward along the same path, must re-
main under the spell of economic com-
pulsion. Why, if individuals turn to
non-economic preoccupations, must a
nation remain resolutely Philistine?

But, in general, we remain subject
to economic preoccupations. Economic
goals are paramount. The guidance of
economists on how to achieve them is
accepted as a matter of course. There
are, I believe, serious dangers in this
delegation. This we see if we look more
closely at the sociology and the mys-
tique of economics. We then see how
this most developed and inﬂuential of
the social sciences can be inﬂuential
also in misguidance when the society is
subject to change and when the social

problem has ceased to be primarily
economic.

Change in Economics

Unlike the natural sciences, which
have long' been viewed as the be-
havioral norm by economists, econom-
ics is subject to two types of change.
The ﬁrst is in the interpretation of
given phenomena. The second is in
needed accommodation to change in
economic behavior or institutions. The
development of the social accounts (na-
ttonal income, gross national product
and their components) in the thirties,
the evolution of the input-output mat:

rix in the forties. the analysis of money
ﬂows. the development of operations
analysis, and the application of 00m-
puter techniques to economic data in
the fifties and sixties are all examples
of the first type of change. The ac-
commodation ol' economic theory to
the rise of the trade union or the deve1_
opment of the large corporation or to
Changing behavior resulting from transi-
tion of the average person from com-
parative privation to. by past stand-
ards. comparative well-being are ex-
amples ol' the second type of change.

liconomics is progressive as regards
the first type (it change—conceptual ad-
vances or innovations in interpretive ap-
paratus trcquent. promptly ex-
amined ultcre useful, willingly
adopted. From index numbers through
the social accounts to modern quantita-
tive methods. these developments have
contributed greatly to the guidance of
the American economy and the con-
duct .\lodcrn public and
business administration are deeply de-
pendent on them.

By contrast. economics is rigorously
conservative in accommodating inter-
pretation to underlying change. Until
quite recently. uage theory was not
accommodated to the existence of the
unions. Their existence and even their
importance was not denied. But, by an
agreeable convention. one was allowed
in pedagogy and scientiﬁc discourse to
assume away the ctl‘ect of such incon-
venient change. “let us suppose there
are no unions or other impediments
in the labor market.“ The modern cor-
poration has not yet been assimilated
to economic theory. although thecor-
porate system is all but cotermtnoaS
with mining, communications. PUbllC
utilities and manufacturing—in short,
the largest part of economic life. The
theory of the ﬁrm makes no distinc-
tion between a \\'isconsin dairy farm
and General Motors Corporation ex-
cept to the extent that the latter may
be thought more likely to have some
of the technical aspects Of monop‘
01y (4). All economists agree that there
has been a revolutionary increase.1n
POpular well-being in the past thirty
years. Most textbooks have yet to C01}-
cede that this has altered economl.
calculation or affected economiC motl-
vation. It is not supposed that the

it l'C

and.

of bttsiness.

, IS

shape of the economic Problem

changed by being solved. d-
The reasons for reluctilnce to a

. . e
mlt to the effects of underlylng Chaniio
are three: again there is tendency

5
SCIENCE- VOL“ 14

 

 




 

 

 

protect vested interest; there is the old
and familiar phenomenon of the imi-
tative scientism of the social sciences
which is, perhaps, carried farther in
economics than in any other discipline;
and there is the natural wish of the
scholar to avoid rowdiness and contro-
versy.

On vested interest there need be little
comment. We all have a lively stake
in what we understand. Moreover,
much underlying change, especially the
movement to higher levels of well-be-
ing, diminishes the urgency and scope
of economic judgment and diminishes,
in some degree, the importance of the
discipline. Unions and corporations in-
troduce social theories of organization
which replace the economists’ market
theory; well-being reduces the impor-
tance of economic choice and there-
with of economic advice based on eco-
nomic calculation. So, like cavalrymen,
locomotive ﬁremen and fundamenta-
list pastors, economists ﬁnd it tempting
to deny what it is professionally dis-
advantageous to concede.

The natural sciences are not subject
to underlying institutional or behavior-
al change. In consequence, economics
seems more scientiﬁc if it is deemed
to have a similar immutability. This
explains, in turn, the considerable sci-
entiﬁc self-righteousness with which
sophisticated scholars avow the irrele—
vance of, say, the advent of modern
advertising for the theory of demand.
It is a libel on the subject to suppose
that its scientiﬁc verities are affected
by such superﬁcial change. Moreover,
the ﬁrst steps to bring institutional
changes within the framework of eco-
nomic analysis are invariably tentative,
oral rather than mathematical and
lacking the elegance of a methodologi-
cal innovation. Hence they are readily
dismissed by the men of scientiﬁc repu-
tation or pretension as rather sloppy
(5). Thus does scientism sublimate the
progressive instincts of the profession
away from institutional accommoda-
tion and into methodological advance.
It does so with the blessing of presump-
tively scientiﬁc attitude, method and
conscience.

But an instinct to caution also plays
a role. Methodological change rarely
has implications for public policy; if it
does, they are likely to be minor. As-
similation to change, by contrast, may
have large and radical policy implica-
tions. Economists who have been as-
sociated with such changes and the re-

_ lated policy—the late Lord Keynes in

10 JULY 1964

Britain, Alvin Hansen in the United
States—have led a highly controversial
existence. This is not to the taste of
all. I do not suggest that economists
are craven. Other disciplines have far
less experience with controversy be—
cause they are not under attack at all.
But it seems certain that many econo—
mists do ﬁnd harmony agreeable. At
the present time, having just come
through the accommodation to under-
lying change now denoted as the Keynes-
ian Revolution, and having discov-
ered that the critics who once dissent-
ed are acquiescent and may indeed be
sensing a common ground with econo-
mists on the conservative consequences
of according priority to economic goals,
there may well be a special reluctance
to look for new trouble. In the intellec—
tual backwaters the name of Keynes
still strikes a radical note. Surely it is
possible to bask a bit longer in the
reputation for living dangerously that
his name thus invokes (6).

Accommodation to Change

This reluctance to accommodate to
underlying change is not new. Its con-
sequence is that in time of change the
practical advice which reﬂects the ac-
cepted economic View will often and
perhaps usually be in error. The advice
will relate to previous and not to the
present institutions; but, needless to say,
action must be related to the reality.
If it is not it will be in some degree
damaging.

The danger here can be illustrated
by reference to the last great change
in underlying behavior and institution
and the related watershed in economic

decision. In this century, as I have ob- ~

served, unemployment—the failure to
use resourcesureplaced the problem
of efficiency in resource use. In the
autumn of 1929, when unemployment
began to grow rapidly, President Hoov-
er’s- ﬁrst instinct was to cut taxes,
which he promptly recommended, and
to urge corporations to maintain pur-
chasing power by not reducing wages.
This was completely in conflict with
accepted economic Views. These con-
tinued to respond to the belief that eﬂi-
cient production, not unemployment,
was the central need. In accordance with
these Views there should be no interfer-
ence with the labor market. Business
conﬁdence, also important for eﬁﬁciency,
required adherence to the gold stand-
ard and a balanced federal budget. This

advice was of no value for preventing
unemployment; nearly all economists
would now agree that measures so in-
spired would make matters worse. In
time, it might be added, Mr. Hoover
surrendered to the accepted economic
View. The subsequent reversal of the
approved policies by President Roose-
velt in 1933 was viewed at a minimum
with skepticism and at a maximum
with hostility by most economists of
acknowledged reputation (7, 8). This
outcome was to be expected. There had-
been extensive underlying change lead-
ing to change in the problem to be
solved. Accommodation was, as usual,
slow. Prescription was, accordingly, for
the wrong problem. As a matter of
prudence, this tendency of economists
must be expected in any time of
change.

Unemployment

The preoccupation of economists
continues to be with unemployment
and with the immediately related ques-
tion of the volume of output of goods
and services which is the remedy for
unemployment. As noted this is rein-
forced by moral sentiment. Only the
heartless would countenance any other
concern. Once again underlying change
has made the preoccupation partially
obsolete; as a result the recommenda-
tions are once again either irrelevant
or damaging. I have used the phrase
“partially obsolete.” The problem is
complicated by the tendency of institu—
tional change to introduce new preoc-
cupations without entirely dispensing
with the old ones. In the 1930’s,
though unemployment became the cen-
tral problem, ineﬂiciency did not be-
come unimportant. Economy in the
use of resources remained desirable
both in the interest of domestic users
and the competitive position of the
country. A high level of employment
and an adequate rate of economic
growth remain important now. The
need is to prescribe ﬁrst for the most
important problems. If there is in-
consistency in prescription for the pri-
mary and secondary (or other subordi-
nate) problems, priority must go to the
primary problem.

It will be agreed that, as unemploy-
ment declines from the (perhaps) 25

. percent of the labor force which it

reached as a maximum during the
thirties to the 2 or 3 percent which
is the practical minimum, concern

119

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

should gradually shift to other issues.
Some such transfer of attention should
presumably have occurred when unem-
ployment had reached the present level
of around 6 percent. Failure so to
shift attention will reﬂect some irration-
ally stubborn insistence on unemploy-
ment as the problem. A shift in at-
tention will be even more certainly in
order if there are obvious shortcom-
ings in the lives of those who are em-
ployed—if education is deﬁcient, re-
gional development is unequal, slums
persist, health care is inadequate, cul-
tural opportunities unequal, entertain-
ment meretricious, or racial equality
imperfect. And the need for prior con-
cern for education, slum abatement,
improved health, regional development,
or racial equality would be even more
clear if these could be shown to be
the cause of unemployment and re-
tarded economic growth. In fact all of
the conditions for a shift from the pri-
mary preoccupation with unemploy-
ment and growth do exist. The pri-
mary prescription must henceforth be
for what may broadly be called the
quality of life. This is now the primary
goaL

Reference to the quality of life will
be thought replete with value judg-
ments; the condemnation of value judg-
ments is one of the devices by which
scientism enforces adherence to tradi-
tional preoccupations (9). But there
should be no major quarrel even by
economists with a social goal which
accords the individual the opportunity
of providing for all of his needs, not
merely for a part of them. And there
will, one imagines, be a considerable
measure of agreement that the individ-
ual is the end in himself and not the
instrument of the organization, public
or private, which was created to serve
him. There are now recognizable im-
perfections in both of these areas. They
follow from the priority accorded eco-
nomic goals and the considerable pow~
er of the machinery we have created
to pursue these goals.

Economic Goals

There is ﬁrst the continuing imbal-
ance in meeting of needs. We identify
economic performance with the produc-
tion of goods and services, and such
production is the task of the private
sector of the economy. As a result
privately produced goods and services,
even of the most frivolous sort, enjoy

120

m mn~w‘l~)hw—IVV,.> ... .

~— .._.. .. a._.—

a moral sanction not accorded to any
public services except defense. Desire
for private goods is subieCt to aCt‘Ve
cultivation—a point to which I will re-
turn. And the equation of psychic with
physical need excludes any notion 0*
satiety. It is a mark of an enfeebled
imagination to suggest (say) that two
automobiles to a family is some kind
of limit. Public services, by contrast,
are the subject of no similar promo-
tion; that there are severe limits to
what should be expended for such ser-
vices is, of course, assumed.

The consequence of this differential
attitude is a sharp discrimination in
favor of one and against another class
of needs. Meanwhile a series of changes
in the society increases the pressure for
public services. Increasing population
and increasing density of population in—
crease the friction of person upon per-
son and the outlay that is necessary for
social harmony. And it is reasonable to
suppose that growing proportion of
the requirements of an increasingly
civilized community—schools, col-
leges, libraries, museums, hospitals.
recreational facilities—are by their na—
ture in the public domain.

Finally increasing private production
itself increases the urgency of public
services. The automobile makes obvi-
ous demands in its requirements for
streets and highways, for trafﬁc con-
trol, control of air pollution and in-
vestment in public order. From the
pressure of mining, ﬁshing, lumbering
and other resource industries on public
agencies responsible for conservation to
the pressure of the exploding container
industry on trash removal, the effect
is similar.

It should also be observed that if
appropriate attention is not accorded
all needs, the private sector itself will
suffer in technical performance. As
Francis M. Bator has pointed out.
“modern science has made public the
very activity of producing inventions”
(10). And modern industry has come
to require its own type of man. One
s1gn1ﬁcant consequence is that a major
part Of the unemployment with which
we are preoccupied is of people whose
locatlon, family characteristics, youth-
ful environment or race denied them
access om their youth to normal 0p-
portunlttes for education and train-
111g (11)..The same is true of individuals
and famllles which fall below the pov-
erty line (12). Thus it comes about that
the. remedy.for unemPIOYment and in-
d1v1dual prlvation depends to a very

considerable degree on the balance be-
tween public and private services~or,
more generally. on measures to
prove the quality of life.

I have dealt with a number of these
concerns before: I do not wish further
to risk the rebuke that accrues to
the scholar who repeats his own work
and that of other people. But there is
a new danger in this area which is now
urgent.

It unemployment is deemed to be
the dominant problem. and if, as in
the past. expansion of the economy is
deemed a complete remedy, it will not
matter much how this is achieved. Tax
reduction and an acceleration of the
expansion in demand for the output
of the private sector will be entirely
appropriate. liven some reduction in

im.

public services it offset by a larger
increase in private outlays will be sound
policy. However. if the problem is the

quality of the society. it will matter
a great deal how the expansion of de-
mand is Improvement in
needed public services. given the ten-
dency to imbalance. improves the
quality of the society. Expansion of pri-
vate services without expansion of pub-
lic services brings prima facie no simi-
lar improvement. It could lead to dis-
tortions that would mean a reduction
in the quality of life. And plainly an
expansion of the private sector which
is won at the expense of the public sec-
tor is intolerable. lt provides what we
least need at the expense of what we
most need. And since the ultimate rem-
edy for much unemployment dePends
on public sector investment in the un-
employed (or their children). the POHCY
may fail in even its avowed purpose.

Therc may be times when tax reduc-
tion will he a legitimate measure for
securing improved economic perform-
ance. Defense expenditures are a large
share of all public outlays and 3159
are protected by a different set of atti-
tudes. Should it be possible and prac-
tical to reduce these. it would be 1305'
sible and perhaps necessary to reduce
taxes—even while improving 0ther ser-
vices.

It is possible also that prior to the
recent tax cut. the tax system. Wit“
its highly progressive impact on m-
creased personal and corporate income
took an undue amount of income from
the economy when this was at or near
full employment. As a result, with IOW‘
er taxes there could be a higher rate
0f growth. higher public revenues .an
better provision for public SCTVICeS'

managed.

5
SCIENCE, VOL 14

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

This case was vigorously made. While
I was less conﬁdent of the calculations
than some of my friends—a recession
arising from then current levels of tax
collections was ﬁrmly predicted for mid-
l963——one could not entirely reject the
argument. But it is the only case that
had merit. The Keynesian argument,
which was and remains the more com-
mon case for tax reduction, is that
any source of spending is acceptable
that expands the economy. By bringing
unbalanced expansion it misses oppor-
tunity for improvement in the quality
of life. And since expansion and in-
creased unemployment require im-
proved public services, it may even be
self-defeating. It also unites an undis-
criminating and obsolete Keynesianism
with those who argue for lower taxes
and less government. This could be a
formidable and damaging coali-
tion (15).

Subordination of the Individual

The quality of life will also suffer
if the individual is not an end in him—
self but an instrument of some purpose
that is not his own. This too is inherent
in our situation. We have developed
an economic system of considerable
power. We have reason to be grateful
for its achievements. But it has its pur-
poses; it seeks naturally to accommo-
date society to these purposes. If
economic goals are preoccupying we
will accept the accommodation of so-
ciety to the needs of economic organi-
zation as an economic imperative. We
will regret our surrender but we will
reconcile ourselves to the inevitable.
If we have economic goals in proper
perspective we will see that no such
subordination is necessary.

One part of this subordination, that
of the individual to speciﬁc organiza-
tion, most notably the corporation, has
been much discussed (14). There can
be little doubt as to the tendency. The
corporation requires its own type of
man; he must be willing to subordinate
his own goals to those of the organiza-
tion. And it is necessary that he do so
if the organization is to succeed. Such
subordination, in some form or other,
makes possible group performance of
tasks. This merges experience, knowl-
edge or technical skills for a result
superior in content and reliability to
that of the individual. It is a functional
necessity of modern organization. Such
SUppression of individuality in modern

10 JULY 1964

organization is not lessened by the con"
temporaneous espousal, as regularly
happens, of a muscular creed of in-
dividualism.

We must keep this part of the prob-
lem in perspective. The competitive
market also has its type, and it is not
so clear that the wary, uncompassion-
ate, self—regarding, wit-matching trader,
in whom both deviousness and cupidi-
ty may have been as often rewarded
as penalized, would have been kept
in the Temple in competition with the
Organization Man. The corporation
executive commits himself voluntarily
to what Mr. Whyte has called the social
ethic of the corporation (15). He can
readily escape if he is willing to forego
the compensation which purchases his
conformity.

The most serious problem is not the
discipline imposed by organization on
its members and accepted by them. The
problem is the discipline such organiza-
tion seeks to impose on society to make
the latter accord better With its needs.
The behavior and beliefs of society are
in fact subject to extensive manage-
ment to accord with economic need and
convenience. Not even scientiﬁc truth,
much as our culture presumes to
canonize it, is at all exempt. Thus the
tobacco industry does not conceal its
discontent with scientists who, on the
basis of rather impressive evidence
aver that cigarettes are a cause not only
of lung cancer but a disconcerting as-
sortment of other fatal or disabling
maladies. The economic well-being of
the industry requires the active and
energetic recruitment of new customers.
This need is paramount. So there is no
alternative to impeaching the scientists
and their evidence (17). We should no-
tice that the freedom of the individual
to smoke and contract cancer is not at
issue here. That fundamental liberty is
not in question.

Similarly, and in conceivably a more
dangerous area, we have come to as—
sume that our defense strategy, and
even in some degree our foreign policy,
will be accommodated to the needs

‘of the industries serving the defense

establishment. Before leaving ofﬁce,
President Eisenhower issued his notable
warning on the rise of the civilian-
military complex, a concern which had
previously been pressed somewhat less
inﬂuentially by the late C. Wright Mills
(17). The Eisenhower-Mills contention
was, in essence, that defense budgets
and procurement were being inﬂuenced
not by national need but by what

served the economic interests of sup-
pliers. Similar consideration, as distinct
from national need, has manifested it-
self on behalf of manned bombers, Sky-
bolt, Dyna-Soar and other weapons in-
cluding some where it met with suc-
cess. The resistance in 1963 to the
partial nuclear test ban by organiza—
tions closely identiﬁed with the manu-
facture of weapon delivery systems was
motivated not by a unique View of na-
tional interest but by industrial need
and the preferences of the Air Force.

HOwever, these are only extreme
cases; they highlight an effort that is
pervasive and inherent. No producer,
in our present state of economic de-
velopment, would be so naive as to
launch a new product without ap-
propriately reconstructing the pattern
of consumer wants to include the inno-
vation. He cannot be sure of succeed-
ing. But he would never be forgiven
if he failed to try. Nor does any com-
mercially viable producer leave the con-
sumer to unpersuaded choice among
existing products. The management of
consumption in accordance with eco-
nomic interest has become one of the
advanced arts of our time. The partici-
pants urge their virtuosity in unin-
hibited terms save, perhaps, when it
becomes a subject for scientiﬁc dis-
cussion. At this stage it becomes a
bland though indispensable exercise in
providing public information.

In a well-to-do community we can-
not be much concerned over what peo-
ple are persuaded to buy. The marginal
utility of money is low; were it other-
wise people would not be open to per-
suasion. The more serious problem lies
in a conﬂict with truth and esthetics.
The meretriciousness associated with
the shaping of popular taste to eco-
nomic need is by way of becoming
one of the hallmarks of the culture.
There is little that can be said about
most economic goods. A toothbrush
does little but clean teeth. Aspirin does
little but dull pain. Alcohol is over-
whelmingly important only as an in—
toxicant. An automobile can take one
reliably to a destination and return him
and its further features are of small
consequence as compared with the traf-
ﬁc encountered. There being so little
to be said, much must be invented. So-
cial distinction must be associated with
a house or automobile, sexual fulﬁll-
ment with an automobile or shaving
lotion, social acceptance with a hair
oil or mouthwash, improved health with
a cigarette or a purgative. We live sur-

121

.1';:_‘_______‘__ ‘ 4

...k—“

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

rounded by a systematic appeal to a
dream world which all mature, scien-
tiﬁc reality would reject. We, quite liter-
ally, advertise our commitment to im-
maturity, mendacity, and profound gul-
libility. We justify it by saying it is
economically indispensable.

The conﬂict with esthetics is even
more serious and much more general.
As the economic problem is resolved,
people can be expected to become in-
creasingly concerned about the beauty
of their environment. The natural pri-
orities of a society proceed from the
getting of the goods to getting the sur-
roundings in which they can be en-
joyed. But, at least in the short run,
there is no necessary harmony between
economic and esthetic accomplishment.
On the contrary, short—run conﬂict must
be assumed.

With rare and probably accidental
exceptions, an esthetically attractive en-
vironment requires development within
an overall framework. Thus agreeable
urban communities are invariably those
in which law or fashion allow of variant
treatments within a larger and sym-
metrical framework. Such communi—
ties must be related to properly pro-
tected open space, for parks and coun-
tryside lose their meaning if they are
invaded at random by habitation, traf-
ﬁc, industry, or advertising. Some segre-
gation of industry and commerce from
living space is essential if the latter
is to be agreeable—neither a steel mill
nor a service station is an esthetically
rewarding neighbor. In a different area
good theatre and good music require
the protection of a mood; they cannot
be successfully juxtaposed to rhymed
jingles on behalf of a laxative.

Economic Priority

All of this is in conﬂict with short-
run economic priority (18). The latter
will seek the greatest possible freedom
for uninhibited use and dissonance; it
is the essence of esthetics that there
be some framework and hence some
control. Those who sense the need
for such control surrender to the as-
sumed economic necessity. For its part
economic organization strongly afﬁrms
its need for freedom. Proposals for
control are pictured as subversive; con-
cern for beauty is pictured as effete.
Purely as a matter of tactics this makes
sense. It is an elementary precaution in
a conﬂict of this kind to identify the
enemy with bolshevism or pederasty.

122

We see, however, that this need not
necessarily be accepted- The priority Of
economics will continue to be defend—
ed—and with enhanced vigor that de-
rives partly from the sense of increas-
ing obsolescence and the need to TeSISt
it. But we can have the social plan-
ning that erases grime and squalor
and which preserves and enhances
beauty. A price in industrial eﬂiciency
may be necessary. Indeed it should be
assumed. Economic development en-
ables us to pay the price; it is Why
we have development. We do not have
development in order to make our sur-
roundings more hideous, our culture
more meretricious or our lives less com-
plete.

Nor, as scholars and scientists.
should we be detained for a moment
by the protest that this is a highbrow
view and that people want what they
want. This is the standard defense of
economic priority. Those who most in-
sist that this is what people really want
are those who most fear that, given
the opportunity, people would make a
different choice—one that involves a
greater measure of social control of
environment.

It will be sensed that these are con-
troversial matters—much more contro-
versial than the questions surrounding
economic growth and full employment.
Important questions of social policy in-
evitably arouse passion. A consensus
is readily reached on those that are un-
important or on their way to solution.
There could be no better test that eco-
nomics is now solving the wrong prob-
lem.

Escape from the commitment to
economic priority has. it will be clear.
a broadly emancipating role. It en-
ables us to consider a range of new
tasks from the beautiﬁcation of our
cities, the cleaning up of roadside com-
merce and advertising. the enlargement
of cultural opportunity, the redemption
of mass communications to the sup-
pressmn of the inﬂuence of weapons
makers on foreign policy. The political
and soc1a1 Power that is available for
these tasks is not negligible. Scientists.
humane scholars, teachers, artists. and
the community that is identiﬁed with
these Preoccupations have been assert-
mg themselves with increasing inﬂuence
and selfjconﬁdence. Given a clear view
f.f..:hiréii“fh:“d need. and given

. . . assumption of economic
wished welcomed 0 mg 18 more to be

, and urged.

References and Notes

—§

. l have discussed the matter a
in The A [ﬂuent Society (Houtghigﬁeﬁgngth
Boston. 1958). Chap. 2, lﬂlln,
. Karl Marx. preface to Cm' ..
Economy (1859). lque of Pallncal
3. A. Marshall. Principles of Economics (Mac
millan, I.ondon. ed. 5. 1907), p, 1. -
4. “. . . the functioning of the modern c01-
porate system has not to date been adequate]-
eXplained or. if certain explanations are ac}:
cepted as adequate. it seems difﬁcult to justi-
fy" Iii. S. Mason, The Corporation and Mod-
om Society (Harvard Univ. Press, Cam-
bridge. 1959). p. 4].
.()ne thinks here of Adolf Berle’s efforts to
bring the corporation within the framewoik
of economic analysis. Though it has many
shortcomings it has had much greater rele-
vance to the behavior of the ﬁrm than theo-
retical tnodcls \vhich ignore questions of size
and corporate structure. But among the eco-
notnic cognosccnli the work has enjoyed
very little standing.
6. i should like in stress again that in discuss.
ing the reluctance of economists to accom-
modate to underlying change my motive is
not criticism but to isolate a fact of some
contemporary consequence. And while I am

ts)

U't

identified with the notion that increased well-
hcing has had a profound effect on eco-
nomic behavior. i am not entering a per-
sonal complaint of neglect. On the contrary
it is the sins or important economists that
these contentions have received too much at-
tention. Hills in a recent article George Stig-
lcr. the present president of the American
l-ieonomie Assm inion. expresses “shock” that

so many more Americans have read The
.‘tﬂlucn! .S‘ut‘it'tt than The Wealth of Nations
l“'l‘hc lnlt‘llt‘elllnl and the Market Place.”
('m‘v. of (‘ln‘mm Graduate School of Busi-
ness, .Vt'lt’t‘lt’t/ I'll/wry i\'(). 3 (l963)]. I am
reluctant to replv to Professor Stigler forI
could seem to he urging the claims of my
book against those of a very great classic.
And I could coincivahly be missing the deep-
er cause or l’iotessor Stiglcr‘s sorrow which

may he not that so many read Galbraith
and so fevv read Smith btlt that hardly any-
one reads Stiizlei at all.

7. The Roosevelt c.otiottiists were largely with-
”“l Prttlcvional prestige. None of them——

Rexford (i. ’lungcll. Gardiner C. Means,
Mordecai lilelnel. lauchlin Currie—elm
fully survived the premature Identiﬁcatlon

with policies that nearly all economists nOW
consider right l'hcy were rightCOUSlY ex-
cluded from pto'essional honors. Nor were
they the only ones. in 1936 the Harvard
Department of l'conomics dismissed as ec-
centric a suggestion that John. Maynard
Keynes. the prophet of the poliCleS related

6
to unemployment. be numbered among iii:
loading economists of the day who WC“: the
in}! endowed with an honorary degree a

tercentenarv celebrations in that year. H0110rs
Went to nicn “ho, in general. urged wrong
but reputable policies. _ of
8- Compare. for c\.tmplc. The Economics
the Rccmcrv l’ltttjrtlnl. by seven Harvar-
economists (\Vhittlcscy House, McGraW
Hill, New York. 1933), _
9. it is held that illC provision Of an 87(1):}:
ing volume of consumer goodS. among W'lce
the consumer c\ctciscs a 50fo“.Ign .chOI ,

. _ ht be
"WOH'CS no value iudilmentS- This 111111: Con.
approximately true if everythmgh market
sumer needs “we available from te

manage hlS

. , ‘ . to .
and if no attempt “CFC made but wisely

choice. Conservatives instinctively
insist that almost all impormnt nee nage—
Provided by the market. and that ma .
ment of the consumer i5
portancc. This enables them tOfCSO
case on an impersonal maniqumtlon at the
dividual choice. it is also evrdent t
Preconditions for their case are far
being met. - nd-
10. F. .\i. Bator. The 01mm” 0" Pl‘blic SP8
ing (Harper. New York. 1950). p.
11. In March 1962. 40 percent of the u
had 8 years of schooliI‘lSz or 15 ' 30 per'
cational group accounted for Onyme When

ti
cent of the total labor forCe- At acent an‘lO11g
national unemployment “'3‘ 6 per 4 percent

males 3.2“} l8 and (WET. it waS lin" or less
of those With 4 years of SChOO :- t07

'h
and 9.5 percent among those W”

45
SCIENCE, VOL' 1

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

years of schooling. Unemployment dropped
to 4 percent among those with 13 to 15
years of schooling and to 1.4 percent of
those with college training (testimony of
Charles Killingsworth, “Automation, Jobs
and Manpower,” Subcommittee on Employ-
ment and Manpower, US Senate [The
Clark Committee], 20 Sept. 1963).

12. In 1956, 13 percent of families had incomes
of less than $2000. Of those with 8 or fewer
years of education, 33.2 percent had incomes
of less than $2000. Among all unattached in-
dividuals 54.1 percent had incomes of under
$2000. Of those with 8 or fewer years of
education, 80.3 percent had incomes under
$2000. (National Policy Committee on Poc-
kets of Poverty, Washington, DC. Mimeo-
graphed, 6 Dec. 1963.)

13. “There is mounting realization of the injury
to incentives and economic growth arising out
of the magnitude of taxation. From this has
come increasing determination to do some-

thing about it. This is all to the good. There
is also a rising realization that there is
something wrong about reducing taxes unless
something also is done about curbing ex-
penditures to avoid the need for big deﬁcits
in budgets. This also is good. But the general
insistence on reducing expenditures falls short
of that on reducing taxes. This failure to
place equal emphasis on expenditure reduc-
tion can mean a danger of continuing big
deﬁcits.” (“Important Trends in Our Econ-
omy,” United States Steel Corporation, 1963
Annual Report, p. 38).

14. W. H. Whyte, Jr., The Organization Man
(Simon and Schuster, New York, 1956).
Whyte relates this subordination is ration-
alized by “. . that contemporary body of
thought which makes morally legitimate the
pressures of society against the individual”
(13. 7).

15. , ibid.

16. On 31 March of this year, Zach Toms, presi-

 

Environment and Man

in Arid America

Geologic, biologic, archeologic clues suggest climatic
changes in the dry Southwest in the last 15,000 years.

The study of ancient people in the
dry Southwest has long commanded the
attention of scientists interested in
man’s response to a changing environ—
ment. Although environment is not the
only factor controlling man’s destiny,
its inﬂuence is particularly evident in
the Southwest, where small climatic
changes have noticeably altered the
landscape, the plants and animals, and
man’s way of life. In this survey I indi-
cate only a few of the methods used
to gain an understanding of man’s past,
emphasizing recent contributions and
basing the chronology mainly on radio-
carbon dating, tree-ring counts, and
POttery sequences. The chronology con-
tains numerous gaps and dubious dates,
but it is the best framework available.
A chronology can also be constructed
by correlating local stratigraphic se-
quences, but such sequences are com-
monly incomplete and their correlation

 

 

The author is a geologist with the US. Geologi-
calSurvey, Federal Center, Denver, Colorado. This
article 18 adapted from a paper presented 3 Sep-
tember 1963 at the 59th annual meeting of the As-
soc1ation of American Geographers in Denver.

10 JULY 1964

Harold E. Malde

is still problematic. Moreover, many in-
teresting biogeographic matters and iso-
lated archeologic sites are not yet tied
to geologic stratigraphy. In this article

stratigraphic names from geologic and

archeologic parlance are avoided, ex-
cept for a few terms in general use.
Several kinds of evidence in the
Southwest point to a period of cool
and moist conditions, coinciding with
the close of the Pleistocene, followed
by warmer, drier conditions, and then
by a return to a somewhat cooler and
wetter climate; but the sequence of en-
vironmental change is complicated by
climatic ﬂuctuations of lesser magnitude
and by differences in the impact of
climate on different landscapes.

Earliest Signs of Man

The age of man in the New World
has not yet been satisfactorily deter-
mined, but there is undoubted evidence
in the Southwest that he hunted mam-
moth and other large animals about

dent of Liggett & Myers Tobacco Company,
said of the Surgeon General’s report: “we
think [it] went beyond the limits of
the problem as now understood by other
qualiﬁed scientists.” At the same time the
president of the American Tobacco Com-
pany, Robert B. Walker, dismissed the sci-
entiﬁc evidence as “. . . ﬁrst of all the
frustrations of those who are unable to ex-
plain certain ailments that have accompanied
our lengthening span of life on earth and
who see in tobacco a convenient scapegoat.”
On 14 April, Joseph F. Cullman, III, of
Philip Morris, Inc., said that his advisers “do
not feel the prime conclusion is justiﬁed on
the basis of available scientiﬁc knowledge and
evidence.”

17. C. W. Mills, The Power Elite (Oxford Univ.
Press, New York, 1956). .

18. Given the self-destructive character of much
unplanned investment, the longer-run conﬂict
is not so clear.

12,000 to 13,000 years ago—when the
last Pleistocene glaciers still covered
northern North America—using bifa-
cial blades known as Clovis points (I).
Some archeologists (2) recognize a
“pre-projectile point” assemblage of
less specialized tools (identiﬁed as
crude scrapers, pebble choppers, and
hand axes) more primitive than Clovis
points and presumably older. Despite
the lack of speciﬁc evidence, because
of the diversity of man’s environmen-
tal adaptations in early times it is not
unreasonable to assume an age for man
in the New World of at least 15,000
years (3).

A few radiocarbon samples, suppos-
edly dating man’s campﬁres, suggest
even greater age (4); but for one rea-
son or another these dates are dis-
counted by most archeologists, though
not by all.

Geologic Signs of

Environmental Change

Geologic evidence of wetter-colder
climate during the late Pleistocene, and
the subsequent physiographic changes,
comes from the history of mountain
glaciation, the rise and fall of pluvial
lakes in closed basins, accumulation
and dissection of alluvium, and the
various effects of wind action (5). The
position of late-Pleistocene snow line
near pluvial Lake Estancia, 100 kilo-
meters southeast of Albuquerque, im-
plies that summer temperature was re-
duced 5° to 6°C (10° to 12°F) and
that annual precipitation increased
about 200 millimeters (8 in.) (6).
Meteorologic study of a Pleistocene
lake in Spring Valley, near Ely, Ne-
vada, indicates a probable 30-percent
decrease in evaporation, a ZOO-milli-

123

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

meter increase in precipitation, and a
7°C decrease in summer temperature
(7). Other details concerning the rise
and fall of pluvial lakes in the Great
Basin are being worked out, but at-
tempts to calculate the input and loss
of salt at these lakes have not yet
reckoned with complex problems of
geology, hydrology, and past climatic
change (8). Maps of several ancient
soils buried in alpine deposits suggest
a changing pattern of climatic zones
(9). Measurement of alluviation and
erosion in arid watersheds shows rela-
tions between precipitation, sediment
transport, and valley shape that help
to explain former stream deposits (10).
Sand dunes in the plains of western
Kansas show reversals of wind direc-
tion in conformity with the advance
and retreat of continental glaciers (11).
Finally, geochemical techniques have
been used to show that the amounts
of manganese, nitrogen, and phospho-
rous left by animals in cave deposits
point to a period of wetter climate that
ended some 12,000 years ago (12).

Biologic Evidence of Past Environment

The biologic evidence for climatic
change in the Southwest, as elsewhere,
rests on displacement of biotic zones
as recorded by fossils or by disjunct,
“relict” species of living plants and ani-
mals. Recent reviews of Pleistocene
biogeography (13) document the grow-
ing recognition of the part played by
recent climatic change in the distribu-
tion of organisms.

Since Eiseley (I4) pointed out that
two land snails, Pupilla sonorama and
Gastrocopta' ashmuni, found with arti-
facts of early hunters at the Linden-
meier site, north of Fort Collins, Colo-
rado imply moist conditions “attendant
on receding mountain glaciation,” mol-
luscan fossils have received increasing
attention in Pleistocene stratigraphy
and in archeology (15). To account
for the moist conditions implied by
terrestrial snails in fossil assemblages
in upper Pleistocene deposits of the
High Plains, for example, shifts of
isotherms by several hundred kilome-
ters north to south and large displace-
ments of moisture belts east to west
must be assumed. More ecologic stud-
ies of modern snail populations are
needed (16).

The vertebrates of the Southwest
include several isolated species, of
which only a few have been studied
intensively. Hall and Kelson (17) have

124

mapped the distribution of 15 endemic
species of mammals in the Great 335‘"
that were probably isolated by changes
in Pleistocene climate. The southern
limits for several Rocky Mountain
mammals and reptiles are marked by
isolated populations above 2100 meters
on desert mountains of southern Ari-
zona (18), The shrew, Sorex milleri,
in mountains of northeastern Mexico,
is regarded as a late-Pleistocene rem-
nant of Sorex cinereus, which now ex-
tends southward in boreal habitats in
the mountains of northern New Mex-
ico (19). The distributional and varia-
tional patterns of southwestern Mir-ro-
tus are explained by postulating a
pluvial period, followed by a warm,
dry interval and then a return to some-
what cooler conditions (20). Pletho-
dontid salamanders in the mountains of
New Mexico probably became disjunct
from Rocky Mountain relatives, be-
cause of climatic warming at the close
of the Pleistocene (21). Similarly, the
distribution of iguanid lizards in the
Great Basin probably resulted from
climatic changes that have occurred
since the last pluvial (22).

Disjunct distributions that indicate
cooler climate during the Pleistocene
are also found among insects—especi-
ally the butterﬂies, of which relict arctic
and subarctic groups are found at
mountain bogs in Colorado (23).

It is well known that remains of
extinct animals occur in upper-Pleisto-
cene deposits of the Southwest (24),
but discovery of several boreal animals
associated with a Clovis point in Burnet
Cave, southern New Mexico, deserves
emphasis (25). However, the recovery
of Marmota ﬂaviventris from the cave
—a species often cited as an indicator
of cold climate—is of doubtful value as
evidence of Pleistocene conditions, be-
cause M. ﬂaviventris is found today in
Utah grasslands as low as 1400 meters
(26).

Some Plants of the Southwest also
show marked distributional patterns
that may reﬂect colder and wetter con-
ditions during glacial stages of the
PIBIStOC?ne' Among Phylogeographers,
the alplne tundra of Colorado is fa-
mous, bemg dominated by a circum-
boreal flora that includes numerous
Ethaordleafy arctic relicts (27). The
EEZE’Uisndlcsilelgglctts distribution of creosote

. of North and South
:ciiiiirclcginii218).and the Puzzling taxo-
. arlty of other desert plants

on opposue sides of the e

Past climatic chan
(29).

quator suggest
ge 1n tropical zones

Pollenuecords point to many bio.
geographic details about the former
distribution of plants, but accurate in-
terpretation ot the fossil pollen requires
further knowledge of pollen rain in
modern envnronments (30). LOOking
ﬁrst at records contemporaneous With
the last stage of continental glaciation,
we ﬁnd that scattered Sites in SOUthern
latitudes yield pollen of trees that now
grow at higher altitudes several hun-
dred kilometers farther north. Pollen
from deposits 22.500 to 17,000 years
old on the southern High Plains, now
a region of short-grass prairie, sug-
gests pine woodlands and scattered
spruce (3/). but forest-type soils are
lacking: hence it appears that trees
probably were not widespread in this
region. Spruce pollen dated from 27,-
000 to 19.000 years old also is abun-
dant in beds of ancient Lake St. Augus-
tin in west-central New Mexico (32),
a locality now surrounded by pinyon,
juniper. and pine. Pollen from pluvial
Lake Cochise in southeast Arizona,
from 23,000 to 20,000 years old, is
dominantly (95 percent) pine but in-
cludes some spruce, ﬁr, and Douglas
ﬁr; it suggests an environment of pine
parkland such as is now found 1400
meters higher on mountains in north-
east New Mex‘ieo 700 kilometers to the
north (33). At Searles Lake, Califor-
nia—now a desert basin 1000 meters
below the nearest woodland—a pluvial
deposit 23.000 to 12.000 years old has
relatively abundant pollen of juniper
and pine (34).

Pollen records from mountain areas
in the Southwest during the glacial pe-
riod. although meager, suggest cons1d-
crablc lowering of the tree line. Sage
and spruce pollen in lake sediments dat-
ed 19,400 years old. at an altitude .Of
2700 meters in the Chuska Mountains
of northwest New Mexico, are attrlb-
uted to a tundra environment; th1s
would mean that the tree line was at
least 760 meters lower than it is at pres-
ent (35). Similarly. pollen from .lakes
and boss in the San Juan MountalnS 0f
southwest Colorado indicates a former
tree line 670 meters lower than the
present one (36').

Environment of Early Hunters

The pollen record of the 50 be-
implies that the climate had alreadyclo_
come more dry at the time Of the 500
Vis hunters, from 13900 to 10,i
Years ago. On the southern. rgt
Plains, a decline in pollen of Pme a

45
SCIENCE. VOL' 1

 

 

 

uthWeSt'

 




 

a: _,

 

 

 

spruce, and changes in assemblages of
diatoms and mollusks, imply that ponds
dried and streams diminished in volume
(37). Spruce that had reached as far
south as the Texas coastal plain dis-
appeared from the pollen record of
Texas bogs about 12,000 years ago
(38). At the same time, pollen repre-
senting the Upper Sonoran zone at
Rampart Cave in the lower Grand Can-
yon—a plant community of a type that
now grows 600 to 1200 meters higher
——disappeared (12). At Lehner Ranch
in southern Arizona (see Fig. 1), pol-
len associated with Clovis remains
about 12,000 years old suggests an en—
vironment resembling present-day grass-
land (39).

Geologic signs of increasing dryness
at this time are especially clear at

‘pluvial lakes in the Great Basin. For

example, as shown by sedimentary
study, water in the Bonneville Basin
had evaporated to a state of high salin—
ity by 12,000 years ago (40), after a
previous stand about 300 meters higher.

 

   
  

10 JULY 1964

Although the climate was becoming
drier, water was nevertheless more
abundant then than it is now, and C10-
vis Man found that ponds and streams
were favorable places for hunting large
animals—particularly the mammoth
(4]). Somewhat later, probably by
8000 years ago, several typically Pleisto-
cene herding animals abruptly died out:
elephant, horse, camel, and a large
species of bison (42). Because the sud-
den extinction did not extend to most
small vertebrates of high reproductive
capacity, and because it occurred in a
wide variety of environments—from
the tropics to northern latitudes—cir—
cumstantial evidence points to prehis-
toric man as a destructive predator.
That the extinction was due to purely
ecologic causes seems improbable (43).
However, the deleterious effect of cli-
matic change on breeding habits can-
not be ruled out, and the archeologic
record so far fails to show that all
the extinct animals were exploited as
game. Resolution of this question re-

 

quires more facts, but at present the
role of man is one clearly identiﬁed
factor.

From about 11,000 to perhaps 6500
years ago (the terminal date is poorly
determined), big-game hunters other
than Clovis Man, using diﬂerent tools
and hunting different animals, appeared
on the Great Plains. As judged from
remains of their camps and kill sites
they were more numerous than the
Clovis hunters, although increasingly
arid conditions must have made for a
hard life. These plains hunters depend-
ed mostly on herds of bison for food,
but they also ate small game, as shown
by scraps found in a few excavated
campsites. Grinding tools for the prep-
aration of plant foods appeared for
the ﬁrst time about 10,000 years ago
and became increasingly common there-
after (41); such culinary objects indi-
cate the beginning of a gathering econ-
omy and a more sedentary life.

While the bison hunters roamed the
Plains, the climate was becoming drier.

 

rear
Salt
.DOG% L aka
Danger

Cave

Q
%
G

UTAH

O
Lindenmeier

COLORADO

 

 

 

 

Cave
Pointof Pines. . Draw
l
\,\o Lehner WhitewaterDrow

\ MRanch

.‘OL.—. .

Fig. 1. Index map of archeologic sites.

NEW MEXICO
But

1
2 Folsom

‘3
§
8
o Blockwater -
<P°

 

 

r0— 0—:‘

125

“-
H




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

At ﬁrst, in such regions as the south-
ern High Plains, ponds were still abun-
dant and supported fresh-water dia-
toms. Sand dunes of an earlier period
were stabilized by vegetation, and cool-
climate mollusks found favorable habi-
tats near water. Later, however, the
ponds dwindled, fresh-water diatoms
were replaced by saline forms, wide-
spread erosion occurred, and presum-
ably vegetation became less dense (37).
Parallel-ﬂaked points dating from the
latter part of this period in eastern
Colorado occur in windblown sand, in-
dicative of regional dryness (44), but
conditions were still rather moist at
the Lindenmeier site to the west, near
the mountains (45). With loss of water
supplies, hunting bands may have stayed
close to familiar watering places, but
travel may have been possible during
wetter months, and short journeys be-
tween springs during the dry season
were perhaps feasible (46). In winter,
or under stress of increased aridity,
people could ﬁnd shelter in wooded
valleys near the foothills (47). There
is some archeologic evidence that sur-
vivors of the big-game hunters migrat-
ed northward (48), perhaps lured on
by better hunting and more plentiful
water in the northern plains, but east-
ward migration also seems likely.
People occupying the Great Basin
and the southern deserts at this time
were handicapped by even greater aridi-
ty and a paucity of big game (49).
They must have depended for a liveli-
hood on small game and edible plants.
Baskets and grinding stones for col-
lecting and preparing plant foods were
in use at Danger and Fishbone caves
in the Great Basin from about 9000
years ago, and they appeared in south-
ern Arizona at about the same time.
The dry climate of this early period
in the Great Basin has been inferred
locally from pollen records, as well as
from shrinkage of pluvial lakes and
from biogeographic considerations al-
ready mentioned. Along Whitewater
Draw, in southern Arizona, pollen cor-
related with the earliest Cochise cul-
ture (dated about 10,000 to 8000
years ago), like the pollen in earlier
deposits with Clovis remains, suggests
an environment resembling the present
grassland (50). The presence of as-
sociated oak and hickory charcoal,
fresh-water mollusks, and remains of
water birds can be explained as evi-
dence of a local riparian habitat within
a desert region. At Nevada caves, pol-
len that overlies deposits yielding a high

126

count of tree pollen dated earlier than
15,000 years ago reﬂects increasing arid-
ity (51). Desert vegetation for the
period from 13,500 to 6000 years ago
is also implied by pollen from Tule
Springs (52).

Altithermal Age

Since the pioneer work of Bryan and
Antevs on the postglacial history of the
Southwest, a climax of aridity from
6000 to about 4500 years ago dated
partly by analogy with European pol-
len records but also by radiocarbon
dating of older and younger dCPOSltS‘
has been widely accepted and only re-
cently disputed (43, 53). Such a period
of warm climate is amply demonstrat-
ed in the northeastern states and in
Europe (54) and is identiﬁable in pol-
len records from the tropics (55). even
though the inferred rise in tempera-
ture—estimated from the tolerances of
modern plants—is only a few degrees.
In the Southwest, this interval is usual-
ly termed the Altithermal, and. because
of evident arroyo cutting, lowered wa-
ter tables, accumulation of caliche in
soils, wind erosion, and dune forma-
tion, is commonly believed to have been
warm and dry; but recent pollen study
casts doubt on this time-worn dogma
(43), and the assumption that cer-
tain geologic features were caused by
drought is debatable. Arroyos and wind
deﬂation, for example, are perhaps only
a result of climatic shift toward less
frequent but occasionally intense rain-
fall, without overall change in aver-
age precipitation (56). Such a change
in the pattern of rainfall, however,
would produce relatively scant vegeta-
tion and dry soils subject to erosion.
Although prevailing ideas about uni-
formly dry climate during the Altither-
mal deserve critical scrutiny, and dates
are needed for this period, conSpicu-
ous geologic signs characteristic of drv
regions are too pervasive and too di-
yerse to be ignored. Our knowledge is
1ncomplete, but my guess is that the
Altithermal was at ﬁrst rather arid and
then gradually became wetter,

Citing mainly geologic evidence, Bry-
an and Antevs (57) emphasized phy-
s1cal features that point to a warm
and dry. middle postglacial period. Lo-
:ststzsraite M M...
that began to yshri :UEtamS, glaciers
far down some 1{1 rom moraines
earlier than 6208191116 Valleys Shghtly

years ago, as esti-

 

mated from radiocarbon dating, disap.
peared entirely and probably did not
re-form until about 3800 years ago
(58), at much reduced size. At the
Lindenmeier site. a deep arroyo older
than 5000 years was cut in dePOSits
that contain artifacts of the early big-
game hunters (45). and a similar ar-
royo is found at the famous Folsom
site in New Mexico (59) An arid pe-
riod, dating back to between 6300 and
4950 years ago. is expressed at Black-
water Draw on the southern High
Plains by a marked disconformity, by
accumulation of wind-blown sand, and
by growth of gypsum crystals in des-
iccated lakes (37). A period of erosion
at Whitewater Draw in southern Ari-
zona had ended by 4500 years ago, as
determined by the age of pond clay in
an arroyo (6(2). (‘aliche formation at
this time. a hallmark of arid lands, is
well known from stratigraphic studies,
and its past rate of development can
be estimated b_\' radiocarbon analysis
(6]). Haek's (63) study of ancient
sand dunes of the Hopi country, which
relate to this period. is a classic in the
annals of geology of the Southwest.
Biogcographie studies mentioned ear-
lier, although still limited to a few
plants and animals. support the idea of
a postglacial warm period. Some botani-
cal information (rom peripheral areas
is also pertinent. (‘omparison of the
present and past distribution of digger
pine (Pinus .m/u'niuna) in California
suggests that the average winter tem-
perature has risen 53C since the Pleis-
tocene (63). (‘haparral in southwest
Oregon once extended northward to Pu-
get Sound. a ﬁnding which implies a
summer rise in temperature of 50F:
and a decrease 01 230 millimeters 1n
annual precipitation (64). Wood peat
indicative of warmer-drier climate at
bogs in the Nortlm est dated from 8300
to 3000 years ago is succeeded by
sphagnum peat of the present 00016?
wetter climate (65). In alpine bog de-
Posits of the Colorado Front Range, a
warmer period from 8000 t0 3000
Years ago is inferred from abundant
grass pollen and reduced tree 13011611
(66). but pollen records from the San
Juan Mountains of Colorado Sho‘g
that the warm period ended about 500
years ago (67). .
Archeologic remains from the Altl—
thermal are rather scarce. On the
Plains the few artifacts Of this age
are identiﬁed with food collectors be—
longing to the Archaic culture (68)' 1.1]
the Great Basin and in southern A“—

5
SCIENCE, VOL- 14

 

 




 

 

 

 

zona, traces of seed collectors have
been found (49). Human populations
may have dwindled as supplies of
game and plant foods decreased, and
men looking for water may have fol-
lowed streams headward, or may have
moved from shrinking lakes to higher
ground (69). This possibility is discussed
below. But I can mention two archeo-
logic curiosities that imply necessities
of the time: prehistoric wells dug
in the southern High Plains (70) and
storage cists for plant foods found in
Nevada caves (71).

Despite the predominant View that the
Altithermal was arid, Martin (43) be-
lieves that the climate was actually wet-
ter, at least during summer in southern
deserts. His evidence is drawn from
ﬂood-plain pollen at two sites in south-
ern Arizona, dated from 5280 to 4120
years ago. The interpretation of pollen
from ﬂood plains is beset with unsolved
problems (as Martin admits), and as-
signment of the pollen to the Altither-
mal is based only on radiocarbon dat-
ing, but the pollen clearly shows an
increase in moisture indicators (pine,
oak, grass, and cattail) as compared
with younger beds. Interestingly, a sim-
ilar increase in tree pollen in the lower
sediment of Hackberry Lake, Nebras-
ka, dated at 5040 years ago, also im-
plies a wet period in the generally
warm and dry postglacial (72). In sup-
port of his View that the Altithermal
was wet, Martin (18) points out that
certain lizards, snakes, and rodents in
the Sierra Madre of Mexico reach their
northern limits as isolated remnants on
the lower slopes of the Chiricahua
Mountains of Arizona and must have
migrated northward along a former
corridor of oak-pine woodland. The in-
tervening divides in Sonora now sup-
port only desert grassland and scrub,
but the woodland required by these ani-
mals grows about 300 meters higher.
Martin attributes the inferred spread-
ing of woodland to subtropical mon-
soons during the Altithermal.

Summer wetness in the Southwest
during late Altithermal time is also im-
plied by conspicuous soils that formed
on landscapes suggestive of earlier arid-
ity. The inferred period of increased
moisture (5000 to 4000 years ago) co-
incides with a time of accelerated soil
development on eolian deposits in the
plains of eastern Colorado (44) and
near Denver (73). At Blackwater Draw
in the southern High Plains, oxidation
and jointing of wind-blown sand that
overlies pre-Altithermal deposits (37)

10 JULY 1964

probably indicates soil development. A
characteristic soil of this age is also
recognized in the La Sal Mountains of
Utah and at various Rocky Mountain
localities (9). Such soil development re-
quires wetness as well as high tempera-
ture. Caliche soils that formed in more
arid areas are readily explained by
postulating additional rainfall (74).

Agriculture and Village Life

As the Altithermal drew to a close,
relatively wetter and colder conditions
returned, and the tempo of human life
accelerated, along with evident growth
in population. Many arroyos began to
ﬁll with alluvium, dry lakes in the
northern Great Basin were ﬂooded,
sand dunes were overgrown with vege-
tation, and new glaciers formed in the
Sierras and the Rockies.

The archeologic record of the South-
west shows, shortly before 5000 years
ago, the ﬁrst signs of agriculture and,
as time went on, increased dependence
on plant foods and a progressive adop-
tion of more sedentary ways of life,
ultimately resulting in Villages attached
to farms. Primitive corncobs at Bat
Cave, a locality 2100 meters above sea
level in west-central New Mexico, are
dated 5600 years ago (75). Cultiva-

' tion of corn at this altitude could have

been favored by warm climate and
summer rain and the subsequent cool-
er climate actually may have curbed
agriculture for a time, because of a
short growing season (76). Corn does
not appear again in the archeologic
record of the“ Southwest until about
4200 years ago at Point of Pines, Ari-
zona, 200 kilometers west of Bat Cave,
and at an upland site near Denver (77,
78). Discovery of these hints of early
agriculture in uplands of the Southwest
reinforces the belief that people moved
to higher ground during a period of
warm and dry climate.

After this start, cultivation of corn
spread over a wide area, especially
along tributaries of large rivers, and
by the time of Christ it had reached
southwestward along theGila and Salt
rivers, eastward to the Rio Grande and
the Pecos, and northward into the C010-
rado Plateau. Corn did not reach the
plains of western Kansas until a thou-
sand years ago (probably from the
east), although makers of pottery, who
depended on native plants, had previ-
ously clustered at sites along streams
(79). Concurrently, squash came into

use by sedentary peOple living along
the San Pedro River, Arizona, about
4000 years ago, and beans were added
a thousand years later. Thus, a populu-
lous economy evolved, based on the
familiar triumvirate corn, beans, and
squash. The simultaneous rise of agri-
culture and return of wetter climate, in
the Southwest, seems to me more than
coincidence. These cultivated plants
were presumably imported from north-
ern Mexico, where they had helped
sustain a seed-collecting economy dat-
ing back several thousand years earlier
(80).

During the rise of agriculture, which
continued into the Christian era, the
climate of the Southwest, as indicated
by the slow buildup of alluvium, was
characterized by intermittent rains in-
terspersed with short intervals of
drought and times of cold weather.
These vicissitudes of climate, none as
severe as earlier changes, brought hard-
ships and induced human migration, but
they also evoked remarkable ingenuity.
The development of devices for storing
and controlling available water is es-
pecially noteworthy. The chronologic
framework of environmental change
during this modern period is founded
on a detailed sequence of pottery
types ﬁrst used in the Southwest 2400
years ago, and on variable growth of
tree rings, for which a climate-con-
trolled chronology extends back to just
before the Christian era (81). The
tree-ring chronology of climatic change,
based on variable growth of very old
bristlecone pines, may eventually em-
brace the past 4000 years (82). Be-
cause of proximity to modern times,
climatic events of this period are, for
convenience, referred to the Christian
calendar.

As previously mentioned, agriculture
was perhaps restrained by a change to
a cool climate immediately after the
Altithermal, although this was a time
of increased moisture. Village farming
was established at some sites by the
beginning of the Christian era (83).
Comparatively dry climate about the
time of Christ is inferred from beams
of pinyon pine in archeological sites
now surrounded by ponderosa pine
(84). Buildup of alluvium continued,
however, and by AD. 550 valleys were
being ﬁlled rather rapidly. For example,
pit houses of this age are found buried
41/2 . meters deep at Chaco Canyon
in northeast New Mexico (85), and
similar situations are common else-
where. The beginnings of town life ap-

127

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

peared at this time, as shown by con-
struction of pueblos dependent on
farms along alluviated valleys. Alluvia-
tion ceased by AD. 900 in some areas
but lasted as late as AD. 1200 in oth-
ers (86). Pueblos built on the alluvial
surfaces contain thousands of beams
cut from pine forests that presumably
grew nearby, although some of these
structures are many miles from exist-
ing forests. Because of the growth of
towns and farms, and the spread of
population under a favorable moisture
regimen, the period A.D. 7004200, the
culmination of a thousand years of vil-
lage life, is commonly regarded as the
cultural climax of the prehistoric South-
west. However, diminishing alluviation
toward the end of this period probably
reﬂects progressively drier conditions,
higher temperatures, and consequent
privation. Bones of animals from the
southern part of the region that migrat-
ed northward between A.D. 1000 and
1100 are found in the village middens
(84), and at this time elaborate tech-
niques for controlling water—such as
check dams, ﬂoodwater diversion, and
irrigation ditches—became widespread
(87). At Chaco Canyon a channel 51/2
meters deep, containing pottery dating
from A.D. 1100, was eroded in the
early alluvium (85); the resultant low-
ering of the water table must have had
a disastrous effect on farming.

After AD. 1200, or perhaps a little
earlier, the inhabitants of large villages
in northern uplands of the Southwest
began to abandon their villages in fa-
vor of lower sites along larger and
more dependable streams. At Point of
Pines, Arizona, an upland locality with
a long record of agriculture, pollen
records show that corn declined and
disappeared (77), suggesting that crops
were no longer cultivated. By AD.
1500, an agricultural population scat-
tered over 600,000 square kilometers
had consolidated in an area of 225,000
square kilometers, most of it south of
the Mexican border, and the vacant
land was not again settled until shortly
before historic times (76). Within this
period, great aridity is indicated in the
tree-ring record from AD. 1276 to
1299, and it has long been thought
that regional drought caused crops to
fail. However, a wetter climate is sug-
gested by the expansion of coniferous
forests between 1300 and 1500 (84),
and Woodbury argues that skillful farm-
ing and the practice of exploiting vari-
ous modes of water supply would have
mitigated crop losses due to drought
(76). The real cause of the abandon-

128

ment of northern upland villages may
have been a cool climate and a short-
ened growing season. Possibly these are
the conditions indicated by pollen dia-
grams of ﬂood-plain sediments of 1210
Tesuque near Santa Fe for the period
A.D. 1100—1400, which show a high
proportion of tree pollen (88)——but,
as I have said, interpretation of flood-
plain pollen is still plagued with un-
certainties. At the same time, favorable
moisture conditions on the plains of
Kansas (perhaps fostered by a cool
climate) are indicated by the westward
migration of creek-bottom agriculture;
trees along valleys were cut for houses
at places where trees do not now grow
(79). A drought on the Plains from
AD. 1439 to 1468 is reflected in
Nebraska tree rings (89), and at about
this time villages along streams of the
western Plains were abandoned.

Recent Climatic Change

Tree-ring records from Arizona and
New Mexico indicate a drought about
AD. 1600 and also the death of many
coniferous trees growing at low alti-
tudes (84). It seems unlikely that the
death of these trees reﬂects only a de-
ﬁciency in winter precipitation, because
these conifers depend for growth on
frequent summer rains (90). In the
years 1600 to 1800 forests expanded
again around small stands of the older
trees (those which ﬂourished between
1300 and 1500) that had survived in
sheltered habitats; it is a remarkable
fact that most conifers in the South-
' west are not older than 350 years, but
that a few are nearly twice that age
(84). On the other hand, tree-ring rec-
ords from Oklahoma indicate rather
constant climate on the plains since

1710, although several short droughts
are evident (9]).

The arroyos so common in the
Southwest, which began to form about
AD. 1880, are regarded as partly a
consequence of overgrazing after the
arrival of white men, but contributing
climatic causes cannot be discounted.
Arroyo-cutting was accompanied in
many places by replacement of grass-
lands with mesquite scrub (92), by a
lowering of the water table (93), and
by a deterioration of native ﬁsh faunas
(94). Modern alpine glaciers reached
their maximum extent about 1860 and
have been retreating since this time
(58). Lastly, since 1950, many low-
altitude trees in the Southwest have
d1ed as a consequence of drought.

Conclusion

In arid parts of America man still
struggles to satisfy his need for Wa-
ter. He foolishly mines groundwater in.
herited from the past, and he has only
partly learned to manage present-day
water supplies. even though the study
of man‘s response to ancient environ-
ment gives lessons for evaluating cur-
rent practices. (‘onservation practices
in vogue a millennium ago for the ef-
ﬁcient use of occasional rain would be
beneficial now it they were more wide-
ly adopted. By seeking to identify and
understand past changes in the land-

scape, modern man might bring his
surroundings under better control.
There is much to learn. The earliest

men and the conditions they faced in
the Southwest have not yet been ade-
quately identified. and the affairs of
even the big-game hunters are recon-
structed from scant evidence. Did they
exterminate Pleistocene animals? Or did
these animals disappear because of an
elusive biologic cause? Was man driven
out of some areas by drought during
Altithermal time‘.’ Or are the prevailing
concepts of Altithermal aridity errone-
ous? Do anomalous distributions of
plants and animals map recent changes
in climatic patterns“? Or is life more
tolerant of extremes than uniformitari-
an ideas assume‘.’ l’rom geologic study
of former episodes of alluviation, can
men learn to “11th desert streams run
again in grassy ﬂoodplains? Or IS the
climate now too great a hindrance?
These are a few of the problems that
hinge on the study of early man in
arid America.

References and Notes

1. H. M. \V’orminetnn. Ancient Man in North
America (Denver \luscum of Natural H‘Story’
Denver. ed. 4. 195“. PP- 42’57'

. A. l). Krieger, Am. .‘lntiquity 28. 138 (196;)6

.H. M. \Vormington. Am. Scientist 50, f
(1962): evidence of man. in the formV ii-
burned. cut and broken bone in northern ers
e7uela. dated 16.375 Wars and 14.300 ESSEX-
ago, is reported by l. Rouse and J- M-
ent. Am. Antiquitt' 28. 537 (1963). S “’1'

4. M. R. Harrington and R. D. Simpson [ 01t a
west Museum Papers .VU- ’8 (1961)] repOfue
date older than 28.000 years ago from. hard
Springs. near Las Vegas. NeVada; but Rifefore
Shutler. in a paper presented in 1963 meet-
the Society for American Archaeology, e 0
ing in Boulder. Colo. found “0 CV] 661C ears
man at Tule Springs earlier than 13.00 Hyarris
ago. w. w. Crook. Jr.. and R' K' 28 7
[BuIL Texas Archcnl. PaleonfOI- Soc. ethan
(1957)] report a hearth dating back ngrcarter
37.000 years at Lewisville. Texas' 6' ' HoP‘
[Pleistocene Man at San Diego (JOhn2s421I6‘
kins Press. Baltimore. 1957). PP- 241— at L
Ports charcoal from the ScriPPS campus P. -
Jolla. Calif., dated at 21.500 years 3?“ Dept.
Orr [Santa Barbara Museum Nat' Hlfjhtes for
Anthropol. Bull. 2. (1956)] reports alsland,
various charcoal layers on 53“ta ROS? 30 0
Calif.. that range from 12.000 to meaty ,
years a o. m'

5. The eviflence is summarized by E- AnteVS, A

MN

45
SCIENCE, VOL' 1

 

 

 

 




 

10.

11.
12.
13.

14.

15.

16.
17.

18.

19.

20.
21.

22.
23.

24.

25.

26.
27.

28.
29.

Antiquity 20, 317 (1955), and by J. P. Miller,
Ariz. Univ. Bull. 28, 19 (1958); some possible
periglacial effects in southern latitudes of
North America are reviewed by D. Brunn-
schweiler, Biul. Peryglacjalny ll, 15 (1962).
. L. B. Leopold, Am. J. Sci. 249, 152 (1951);

, ibid., p. 399; E. Antevs, J. Geol. 62,
182 (1954).

 

. C. T. Snyder and W. B. Langbein, J. Geophys.

Res. 67, 2385 (1962).

. A. J. Eardley, V. Gvosdetsky, R. E. Marsell,

Bull. Geol. Soc. Am. 68, 1141 (1957); W. S.
Broecker and A. F. Walton, ibid. 70, 601
(1959); J. H. Feth, ibid., p. 637.

G. M. Richmond, U.S. Geol. Surv. Profess.
Paper No. 324 (1962).

S. A. Schumm and R. F. Hadley, Am. J. Sci.
255, 161 (1957); W. B. Langbein and S. A.
Schumm, Trans. Am. Geophys. Union 39,
1076 (1958); R. F. Hadley, U.S. Geol. Surv.
Profess. Paper No. 352-A (1960); S. A.
Schumm, U.S. Geol. Surv. Profess. Paper No.
352-3 (1960); S. A. Schumm, Bull. Geol.
Soc. Am. 74, 1089 (1963); S. A. Schumm and
R. W. Lichty, U.S. Geol. Surv. Profess. Paper
No. 352-D (1963).

D. S. Simonett, Assoc. Am. Geographers Ann.
50, 216 (1960).

P. S. Martin. B. E. Sabels. Dick Shutler, Jr.,
Am. J. Sci. 259, 102 (1961).

E. S. Deevey, Jr., Bull. Geol. Soc. Am. 60,
1315 (1949); P. S. Martin, in Zoogeography,
C. L. Hubbs. Ed. (AAAS, Washington, D.C.,
1958), pp. 375—420.

L. C. Eiseley, Publs. Philadelphia Anthropol.
Soc. 1, 77 (1937); the mollusks identiﬁed by
Eiseley are given different names in current
studies.

D. W. Taylor, U.S. Geol. Surv. Profess. Paper
No. 337 (1960); A. B. Leonard and J. C.
Frye, Texas Bur. Econ. Geol. Rept. Invest.
No. 45 (1962): R. J. Drake, Southern Calif.
Acad. Sci. Bull. 59, 133 (1960); , ibid.
60, 127 (1961); D. C. Allen and E. P.
Cheatum, Texas Archeol. Soc. Bull. 31, 293
(1961).

E. J. Karlin, Am. Midland Naturalist 65, 60
(1961).

E. R. Hall and K. R. Kelson, The Mammals
of North America (Ronald Press, New York,
1959), vol. 1.

P. S. Martin, New Mexico Highlands Univ.
Bull. 212, 56 (1961).

J. S. Findley, Kansas Univ. Museum Nat.
Hist. Publs. No. 7 (1955), pp. 613—618; B. H.
Slaughter and B. R. Hoover, Southern Meth-
odist Univ. J. Grad. Res. Center 31, 143 (1963).
J. S. Findley and C. J. Jones, J. Mammalogy
43, 154 (1962).

R. C. Stebbins and W. J. Riemer, Copeia 1950,
73 (1950).

B. H. Banta, thesis, Stanford University, 1961.
A. B. Klots. Proc. Intern. Congr. Entomol.,
10th, Montreal, 1956 (1958), vol. 1, p. 711.
Geologic relations of some extinct and living
vertebrates are reviewed by C. B. Hunt, U.S.
Geol. Surv. Bull. 996-A (1953); mammalian
local faunas are summarized by C. W. Hib-
bard, Papers Michigan Acad. Sci. 43 (1957),
3 (1958). _

K. F. Murray, Ecology 38, 129 (1957); the
supposedly boreal forms include the fox Vul-
Pes macroura, the wood rat Neotoma cinerea,
and the hare Lepus townsendii.

P. S. Martin, in Zoogeography, C. L. Hubbs,
Ed. (AAAS, Washington, D.C., 1958), p. 391.
W. A. Weber, in Recent Advances in Botany
(Univ. of Toronto Press, Toronto, 1961), vol.
1, pp. 912-914; see also P. L. Johnson, Ma-
drono 16, 229 (1962).

E. Garcia, C. Soto, F. Miranda. Mexico Univ.,
Inst. Biol.. Ann. 31, 133 (1960).

Pollen records that indicate forest boundaries
900 meters lower on mountains in Costa Rica
and Colombia are cited by P. S. Martin in a

 

10 JULY 1964

30.

31.

32.
33.
34.
35.
36.

37.

38.

39.

40.
41.
42.
. P. S. Martin, ibid., 29, 67 (1963).
44.
45.

46.

47.

48.

49.

50.
51.

52.

53.
54.
55.
56.

57.

58.
59.

60.
61.

paper presented before the 6th congress of the
International Association for Quaternary Re-
search, Poland, 1961, and by T. van der
Hammen and E. Gonzales, Leidse Geol.
Mededel. 25 (1960), 261 (1961).

L. D. Potter and Joanne Rowley, Botan. Gaz.
122. 1 (1960); H. N. Dixon, thesis, University
of New Mexico, 1962; L. J. Maher, Jr., Bull.
Geol. Soc. Am. 74, 1485 (1963).

U. Hafsten, in Paleoecology of the Llano Esta-
cado (Fort Burgwin Research Center, Taos,
N.M.. 1961), pp. 59—91.

K. H. Clisby, F. Foreman, P. B. Sears,
Geobotan. Inst. Riibel Verho'ff 34, 21 (1958).
P. S. Martin, Ecology 44, 436 (1963).

A. Roosma, Science 128, 716 (1958); R. F.
Flint and W. A. Gale, Am. J. Sci. 256, 689
(1958).

A. M. Bent and H. E. Wright, Jr., Bull.
Geol. Soc. Am. 74, 491 (1963).

L. J. Maher, Jr., thesis, University of Min-
nesota, 1961.

F. Wendorf, in Paleoecology of the Llano
Estacado (Fort Burgwin Research Center,
Taos, N.M., 1961), pp. 12—21, 115-133.

A. Graham and C. Heimsch, Ecology 41,
751 (1960); the date is estimated from the
inferred rate of sedimentation (based on a
single date obtained by the radiocarbon
method) and by correlating pollen records
of adjacent bogs.

P. J. Mehringer, Jr., paper presented be-
fore the Society for American Archaeology,
meeting in Boulder, Colo., 1963.

A. J. Eardley, Utah Geol. Mineral. Surv.
Spec. Studies No. 2 (1962).

F. Wendorf and J. J. Hester, Am. Antiquity
28, 159 (1962).

J. J. Hester, ibid., 26, 58 (1960).

H. E. Malde, ibid., 26, 236 (1960).

V. Haynes and G. Agogino, Proc. Denver
Museum Nat. Hist. 1960, No. 9 (1960).
For a map of springs on the High Plains
and historical accounts of them, see W. R.
Wedel, Am. Antiquity 29, 1 (1963).

B. H. Huscher and H. A. Huscher, Am.
Phil. Soc. Yearbook 1941 (1942), pp. 226-
229.

The evidence is
Alexander, Jr., Am.
(1963).

W. J. Wallace, ibid., p. 172; R. D. Daugh-
erty, ibid., p. 144; J. D. Jennings and E.
Norbeck, ibid. 21, 1 (1955).

P. S. Martin, The Last 10,000 Years (Univ.
of Arizona Press, Tucson, 1963).

P. B. Sears and A. Roosma, Am. J. Sci.
259. 669 (1961).

P. J. Mehringer, Jr., and P. S. Martin,
paper presented before the Society for
American Archaeology, meeting in Boulder,
Colo., 1963.

H. H. Aschmann, Calif. Univ. Archaeol.
Surv. Repts. No. 42 (1958), pp. 23—40.

E. S. Deevey and R. F. Flint, Science 125,
182 (1957).

T. van der Hammen and E. Gonzales, Geol.
Mijnbouw 39, 737 (1960).

L. B. Leopold and J. P. Miller, U.S. Geol.
Surv. Water Supply Paper No. 1261
(1954), pp. 54—56.

C. C. Albritton, Jr., and K. Bryan, Bull.
Geol. Soc. Am. 50, 1423 (1939); K. Bryan
and C. C. Albritton, Jr., Am. J. Sci 241,
469 (1943); E. Antevs, Am. Antiquity 28,
193 (1962).

G. M. Richmond, Bull. Geol. Soc. Am. 71,
1371 (1960).

W. F. Libby, Radiocarbon Dating (Univ. of
Chicago Press, Chicago, ed. 2, 1955), pp.
107—108.

E. Antevs, Am. Antiquity 20, 329 (1955).
J. J. Sigalove, A. Long, P. E. Damon, J.
Geophys. Res. 67, 1657 (1962).

summarized by H. L.
Antiquity 28, 510

62.

63.

64.

65.

66.
67.

68.
69.
70.
71.
72.
73.
74.

75.

76.

77.

78.
79.
80.

81.

82.

83.
84.

85.

86.
87.

88.

89.
90.
91.
92.
93.
94.

95.

J. T. Hack. Geograph. Rev. 31, 240 (1941);
Papers Peabody Museum Am. Archaeol.
Etlmol. Harvard Univ. No. 35 (1942).

C. J. Heusser, paper presented before the
10th Paciﬁc Science Congress, Honolulu,
1961.

L. E. Detling, Ecology 42, 348 (1961).

C. J. Heusser, Am. Geog. Soc. Spec. Publ.
35 (1960), pp. 184—186.

R. W. Pennak, Ecology 44, 1 (1963).
C. L. Hubbs, G. S. Bien, H. E.
Radiocarbon 5, 271 (1963).

For several papers dealing with the Archaic,
see Am. Antiquity 24, No. 3 (1959).

P. B. Sears, Ariz. Univ. Bull 28, 77 (1958).
F. E. Green, Am. Antiquity 28, 230 (1962).
R. D. Daugherty, ibid., p. 147.

P. B. Sears, Science 134, 2038 (1961).

G. R. Scott, U.S. Geol. Surv. Profess. Pa-
per No. 421-A (1963), pp. 40—41.

C. N. Brown, J. Geol. 64, 1 (1956); W. S.
Motts, Bull. Geol. Soc. Am. 69, 1737 (1958).
P. C. Mangelsdorf, Science 128, 1313 (1958);
, R. S. MacNeish, W. C. Galinat. ibid.
143, 538 (1964).

R. B. Woodbury, Ann. N.Y. Acad. Sci. 95,
Art. 1, 705 (1961).

P. S. Martin and J. Schoenwetter, Science
132, 33 (1960). Corn of about the same
age is also found at Tularosa Cave, New
Mexico.

H. J. Irwin and C. C. Irwin, Am. Antiquity
27, 114 (1961).

W. R. Wedel, Bur. Am. Ethnol. Bull. 174,
626 (1959).

R. S. MacNeish, Trans. Am. Phil. Soc. 48,
1 (1958).

H. C. Fritts, in UNESCO and World Meteor-
ological Organization Symposium on Changes
of Climate, With Special Reference to the
Arid Zones, Rome, 1961 (1963); E. Schul-
man, Dendroclimatic Changes in Semiarid
America (Univ. of Arizona Press, Tucson,
1956).

C. W. Ferguson, Jr., paper presented before
the Southwestern and Rocky Mountain Di-
vision of the AAAS, 1963.

E. W. Haury, Viking Fund Publs. in An-
thropol. No. 32 (1962), pp. 106—131.

T. L. Smiley, Ann. N.Y. Acad. Sci. 95, Art.
1, 697 (1961).

The relation of alluviation and climate to
prehistoric village life is discussed by K.
Bryan, Smithsonian Inst. Misc. Collections
No. 122 (1954).

J. P. Miller and F. Wendorf, J. Geol. 66,
177 (1958).

R. B. Woodbury, Soc. Am. Archaeol. Mem.
I7 (1961).

L. B. Leopold, E. B. Leopold, F. Wendorf,
in UNESCO and World Meteorological Or-
ganization Symposium on Changes of Climate,
With Special Reference to the Arid Zones,
Rome, 1961 (1963), pp. 265—270.

H. E. Weakly, Tree-ring Bull. 6, 18 (1940);
J. Forestry 41, 816 (1943).

W. S. Glock, Trans. Am. Geophys. Union
36, 315 (1955).

H. J. Harper, Proc. Okla. Acad. Sci. 41,
23 (1961).

J. R. Hastings, Ariz. Acad. Sci. J. 1, 60
(1959).

J. R. Harshbarger, Ariz. Univ. Bull. 28, 51
(1958).

R. R. Miller, Papers Mich. Acad. Sci.,
46 (1960), 365 (1961).

For helpful criticism of the manuscript I am
indebted to Claude C. Albritton, John T.
Hack, Emil W. Haury, Charles B. Hunt,
Jesse D. Jennings, Alex D. Krieger, Estella
B. Leopold, Paul S. Martin, William S.
Osburn, William E. Powers. Hugo G.
Rodeck, and H. Marie Wormington. Publi-
cation of this article is authorized by the
director of the U.S. Geological Survey.

Suess,

 

129

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Heterochromatic Chromosomes

in the Coccids

The process of heterochromatization and the functton
of heterochromatin in coccid insects are rev1ewed.

Spencer W. Brown and Uzi Nur

Cytologically, heterochromatization
appears as a change in chromosome be-
havior: chromosomes, instead of extend-
ing themselves and losing their intense
stainability at the end of a division,
tend to maintain a condensed state in
the nondividing nucleus. It is hoped that
a consideration of heterochromatin in
several coccid insects will add to our
understanding of the process of hetero-
chromatization and the function of
heterochromatin.

Heterochromatization is apparently
one of the ways in which part of a
chromosome, a whole chromosome, or
an entire set of chromosomes may be-
come genetically inactive during the
course of development. Examples of
the inception of heterochromatization
during embryogeny are less well known
than instances in which chromatin regu-
larly appears heterochromatic through-
out various developmental stages. The
inception of the process no doubt re-
quires a control factor in addition to
whatever is necessary to maintain heter-
ochromaticity. The female house
mouse, as well as other female mam-
mals, demonstrates the heterochromati-
zation of one of its two X chromo-
somes during development. Such a fe-
male becomes a fairly ﬁne-grained mix-
ture or mosaic of two types of tissue,
that in which the heterochromatized X
is of paternal origin and that in which
it is of maternal origin. The hetero-
chromatized X is recognized as the
“Barr body” in nondividing nuclei (1),
and experimental evidence associates
the heterochromatization with the loss
of genetic activity of at least some of
the loci on the X chromosome (2).

The coccids are a relatively small,
highly specialized family (or superfam-
ily) of homopteran insects closely re-
lated to the more familiar aphids. With-

130

in this restricted group the diversity of
chromosome systems is rather remark-
able: nine different sexual systems are
now known (3, 4) as well as several
types of parthenogenesis. In several of
the chromosome systems one or more
entire sets of chromosomes become
heterochromatized during early embry-
ogeny. The large and constant propor-
tion of chromosome material thus in-
volved in heterochromatization simpli—
ﬁes interpretation of results from both
the “evolutionary experiments” discov-
ered in nature and the laboratory ex-
periments set up with suitable subjects.

In this article the information so far
gleaned from the coccids is used in an
attempt to answer, in whole or in part.
three questions: What are the origin and
fate of the chromosomes which become
heterochromatic? What is the effect of
heterochromatization on genetic func-
tion? What is responsible for the in-
duction, maintenance, and regulation of
the heterochromatic state?

The Mealy Bug System

Coccid cytology began in 1921 with
Schrader’s (5) ﬁrst study of mealy bug
chromosomes. Since then, further work
by both Schrader (6) and Hughes-
Schrader (3, 7) has revealed the com-
plete sequence in the mealy bug, or
more properly, the lecanoid system of
chromosome behavior. In this system
one property is of particular signiﬁ-
cance: in some embryos an entire
haploid set of chromosomes becomes
heterochromatized and remains hetero-
chromatic during subsequent develop-
ment.

In the cleavage divisions immediately
following fertilization, the chromosomes
of all embryos appear to be euchroma-

tic. Shortly thereafter, at blastula, One
half of the chromosomes become
heterochromatized in those embryos
destined to become male. At interphase,
the heterochromatic chromosomes
clump together to form a COnSpicuOUS
chromocenter. It is thus possible to tell
at a glance the sex of an embryo, or
even of a stttall patch of tissue, long
before the gonads show their distinc-
tive aspects. In the female embryo
none of the chromosomes are hetero.
chromatized. all of them thus remain-
ing itt the euchromatic state, and the
further development of the female, in-
cluding oogencsis, is also rather ortho-
dox.

During the subsequent development
of the males the heterochromatic set
divides synchronously with the euchro-
matic set. In the species shown dia-
grammatically in Fig. l the haploid
number is tive. In one type of division
ﬁgure. that of the female, all ten chro-
mosomes of the diploid complement are
similar. lit the tigures from the male
the ﬁve chromosomes of the hetero-
chromatic set are shorter and more
densely stained than the ﬁve of the
euchromatic By metaphase, the
hetero- and euchromatic sets are no
longer distinguishable and metaphase
plates look the same in males and fe-
males.

The quite unusual sequence of sper-
matogenesis in the male mealy bug iS
shown diagrammatically in Fig. 2. The
ﬁrst division is equational, as though
this were simply another mitosis for
both the euchromatic and the hetero-
chromatic sets. l)uring the second d1-
vision the two types of chromosomes
segregate to opposite sides of the cell.
The result of the two divisions is thus
the expected four nuclei, but no Palr‘
ing and no genetic recombination have
occurred. Two of the four nuclei are
strictly euchromatic derivatives; the Ot'h'
er two are strictly heterochromatic.
Onl,V the euchromatic derivatives PTO'
ceed to form sperm. The heteI'OChro‘
matic derivatives gradually disintegf.ate
while the euchromatic are undergomg
spermiogenesis. The Schraders (3’ 6’ 7,)
were thus able to show, from thelf
cytological studies. the fate of the heter-

sci.

 

. he Uni'
Dr. Brown is professor of genetics at tNul‘ is
versity of California. Berkeley; Universrty

assistant professor of biology at the ie
of Rochester. Rochester. NY. This re;
originally presented 33 Angus? 19f modern
symposium on methods and ﬁndings 0 the late
cytology. dedicated to the memory 0 eeting
Professor Franz Schrader. at the apnuaCorValliS,
of the American Society of 200108-15“,

Oregon.

45
SCIENCE, VOL- 1

 

 

 




 

 

ochromatic set. Because of its failure
to form sperm, it is excluded from the
genetic continuum.

The Schraders also offered two
hypotheses in regard to the origin and
function of the heterochromatic set,
and both have been recently conﬁrmed
with the common mealy bug, Planococ-
cus citri, as the test subject.

The ﬁrst hypothesis (3) states that
the heterochromatic set in the males
is of paternal origin. This was con-
ﬁrmed quite simply (8). After x-ray
treatment of fathers, chromosome aber-
rations appeared in the heterochromatic
set of male embryos; after x-ray treat—
ment of mothers, the aberrations were
found in the euchromatic set. There-
.fore, the euchromatic set of the father
becomes the heterochromatic set of the
son, since the heterochromatic set de-
generates after spermiogenesis.

The second hypothesis of the Schra-
ders (9) is concerned with function.
According to this hypothesis the hetero-
chromatic set in the males is genetical-
ly inert; the male mealy bug would
therefore be a virtual, or physiologi-
cal, haploid even though he has a dip-
loid number of chromosomes. This hy-
pothesis was veriﬁed by Brown and Nel-
son—Rees (8), who used x-rays and also
irradiation from a radiocobalt source,
and found a differential survival of
male and female progeny following ir-
radiation of the fathers at various dos-
ages. With increasing dosage, the num-
ber of surviving daughters declined, as
would be expected if the treatment
were inducing dominant lethal muta-
tions. At a dose of 16,000 roentgens
only 3 percent of the daughters sur-
vived. The number of sons did not de-
cline, and there were approximately as
many sons after irradiation of the fa-
thers at 30,000 rep (roentgen equiva-
lent, physical) as there were for unir-
radiated controls. Irradiation above
30,000 rep usually made the fragmented
chromosomes sticky, so that at these
doses lethality probably resulted from
mechanical disruption of very early em-
bryogenesis. But a few sons still sur-
vived after the fathers had been irradi-
ated at 60,000 and 90,000 rep. This
survival study indicated that dominant
lethal genes are not expressed when
they are present in the heterochromatic
set, thus demonstrating the inertness of
the heterochromatic set and conﬁrming
the Schraders’ second hypothesis.

The foregoing conclusions may be
summarized as follows: the male mealy
bug receives a set of chromosomes

10 JULY 1964

\‘\ \‘¢\\ H ’ .’ .
::::\ III] ‘ ' '
“\\ u

 

H
H

 

.5: \ I
\‘: “ ’7’
INTERPHASE MID LATE METAPHASE
0R NON DIVIDING PROPHASE PROPHASE

Fig. 1. Mitosis in female and male mealy bugs. The female and the male mealy bug
have the same number of chromosomes (ten is the commonest number). The chromo-
somes of the female (bottom row) remain unchanged during development. Half the
chromosomes of the male (top row) become heterochromatized at an early embryonic
stage and remain so throughout development. The heterochromatic chromosomes
clump together to form a chr-omocenter at interphase and appear more condensed

than the others during prophase. At metaphase all chromosomes of both sexes are

equally condensed.

from his mother which remains euchro-
matic and genetically active, and is
transmitted in his sperm; the set which
he receives from his father becomes
heterochromatic and genetically inert,
and is discarded rather than transmit-
ted. -

The expression and transmission of
all the genetic mutations found so far
in the mealy bug conform to this pat-
tern. The males express and transmit
only the genes they receive from their
mothers. Several of the mutations dis-
covered aﬁect wing morphology and
cannot be studied in the female be-
cause all female coccids are Wingless.
Our best examples, therefore, are the
several mutations to a lighter eye color,

salmon eye, which have occurred in-
dependently at several different loci.
The mutant genes behave as typical re-
cessives in the female. The male will
express the recessive only if he gets
it from his mother, and irrespective of
whether he receives the dominant or
the recessive gene from his father.

So far the mealy bug system seems
quite straightforward. The heterochro-
matic set is the paternal set. It is genet-
ically inert and is eventually discarded.
Thus, our questions regarding origin,
function, and fate appear to be an-
swered. However, this is by no means
the end of the story, since the hetero-
chromatic set does show certain types
of activities.

 

I, l u ‘ Q

/ i: ‘\. "0 "0 ".1: Q0 1

I It \ .:O " _.--- 000

00 0 C
.0 O .OH '

'.O ’—_" : iil- “""* F
o O Q

- 0 O .
5“ i I; ,I’ := O "‘ 2-1.:0Q Q
00 .,-__ 00 J
METAPHASEI lNTERPHASE TELOPHASE It SPERMIOGE NESIS

Fig. 2. Spermatogenesis in the mealy bug. The euchromatic and heterochromatic sets
both divide equationally during the ﬁrst spermatogenic division and segregate during
the second. Only the euchromatic products form sperm; the heterochromatic products
appear as deep staining residues, which slowly degenerate.

131

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Residual Activity of

the Heterochromatic Set

About ﬁve years ago, during a dis-
cussion of coccid chromosome systems
at a national meeting, M. J. D. White
stated that he felt certain the hetero-
chromatic set was doing something or
it would not be there. It has since
been learned that White was correct;
there are at least three effects attrib-
utable to what we may call the residual
activity of the heterochromatic set.

Two of these have been recently dis-
covered by Nelson-Rees (10). The ﬁrst
concerns what has been referred to as
the bulk requirement. After very severe
irradiation of fathers (60,000 to 90,000
rep) a few sons are still able to survive
to adulthood. No matter how badly
damaged or rearranged the heterochro-
matic set is in these survivors, the bulk
of the heterochromatic material is just
about the same as it is in the untreated
controls. However, if the chromosomes
are studied earlier in the embryos,
shortly after fertilization, gross distur-
bances may be observed to occur in
the heterochromatic set as the result
of the high irradiation. Therefore, only
those embryos with an approximately
normal amount of heterochromatin sur-
vive, regardless of how this set may
otherwise have been modiﬁed.

The second effect is on fertility. Af-
ter irradiation of the fathers at 30,000
rep, 100 percent of the sons survive.
However, a large proportion of these
sons are sterile. The proportion of
sterile sons increases with dose, becom-
ing 100 percent at dosages between 60,-
000 rep and the top limit, 90,000 rep.
According to further observations by
Nelson-Rees (10), the morphological
changes associated with sterility occur
mainly during sperm formation.

The third effect involves foreign
heterochromatin. A heterochromatic set
from one species cannot be substituted
for that of another. If the heterochro-
matic set of a species were completely
inert, it should be possible to replace it
with a heterochromatic set of compa-
rable bulk from another species. In this
case, after at least some interspeciﬁc
crosses, the male offspring would be
expected to survive, although the fe-
male offspring would not. However,
Nur and Chandra (11) found that no
offspring of either sex survived beyond
the ﬁrst instar stage after interspeciﬁc
hybridization of several species of mealy
bugs, some quite closely related.

132

In conclusion, therefore, we can say
that the heterochromatic set is inert
genetically except for certain residual
functions. These residual functions man-
ifest themselves as an apparent bulk
requirement, an effect on fertility, and
a failure of interspeciﬁc substitution.
None of these are really understood
yet, and so their relationship with typi—
cal gene action remains quite unknown.

lnduction and Control

The last question to be considered
concerns the induction and maintenance
of the heterochromatic state in the
coccids. The chromosomal chemistry in-
volved in such processes is not known,
but cytological and autoradiographic
studies of heterochromatin have re-
vealed some interesting properties.

Studies of irradiated coccid chromo-
somes were carried out in an attempt
to localize the site within a chromo-
some which controls the induction of
heterochromatization of that chromo-
some. Coccid chromosomes are holo-
kinetic. Therefore, every chromosome
fragment, no matter how small, is ca-
pable of some movement on the mitotic
spindle. Very small fragments tend to

be lost fairly readily, but this can be
attributed to their slowness in getting
to the poles: they in no way appear
to be acentric. When the mealy bug
chromosomes are irradiated, all of the
fragments behave like whole chromo-
somes, not only with respect to move-
ment. as would be expected, but also
with respect to heterochromatization.
That is. after irradiation of the fathers,
all of the fragments in the male embryos
are heterochromatic; after irradiation of
the mothers. all are euchromatic. There-
fore. there most not be a single locus
or restricted region on each chromo-
some which controls or regulates the
induction of its heterochromatization.

As shown by Nelson-Rees (10), there
is also no one region within a hetero-
chromatic chromosome that controls its
behavior in spermatogenesis. He studied
the spermatogenetic behavior of the
many small chromosomal fragments re-
sulting from irradiation of the father
at a very high dose. These fragments
invariably bebax‘ed like typical members
of the heterochromatic set. always seg-
regating along mm the rest of the
heterochromatin in the second division.

An interaction between the hetero-
and euchromatic sets has been demon-
strated by recent observations of Nur

.: -' .{j
OOGENESIS /___,/ w 3.1
PBII
951 EMBRYOS

//% J ”a two
ﬂab f \\ / haploid
KQ \Q nuclei

FUSION

     
 
 
    

/ N

\e:\
(R 9 \
substitute
Fig. 3. Origin of embr
usual products. The tw

in development thereaf
which soon unite to p

 
   
  

\\V /» diploid zygote
ﬂ

EUCHROMATIC

 
 

    

5‘1 EMBRYOS
HETEROCHROMATIC. .

    

yos in a pafthenogenetie soft scale. A tyPical meiosis yields the
0 polar bodles divide on

.. te
aberrant spindles and do not part1c1pa.

ter. The egg nucleus divides once to yield two haplOid nuclei,

I'Od ' ' , t' 6
embryos so produced, uce a dlplmd zygote substitute. In about 5 percent 0

one h

chromocenters and division ﬁgures

I . ' a
ap101d SCt ls heterochromatized and shows the typlc

5
SCIENCE, VOL 14

 

 

 




(12) and Chandra (13). This interaction
is responsible for the maintenance, but
not the induction, of the heterochro-
matic state. The single paternal set of
chromosomes present in experimentally
produced haploid embryos and haploid
embryo sectors was observed ﬁrst to
undergo typical heterochromatization,
and subsequently to lose its heterochro-
maticity. It appears that the heterochro-
matic set in normal embryos is being
suppressed (maintained in the hetero-
chromatic state) by the euchromatic set.
However, such suppression is not an
interaction between genetic homologues
such that chromosome 1 in the euchro-
matic set is responsible for the sup-
pression of chromosome 1 in the heter—
ochromatic set. Nor is the converse
true. When a chromosome is lacking
from either set in an embryo, its
homologue in the other set nonetheless
shows the typical expression of the set
to which it belongs (I4).

Autoradiographic studies by Baer
(15) on the mealy bug, Pseudococcus
obscurus, have shown that the hetero-
chromatic set synthesizes DNA asyn-
chronously with respect to the euchro-
matic set. Lima-de-Faria (16), Taylor
(17), and others had previously found
such asynchronous DNA replication in
various organisms. In the known ex-
amples, the heterochromatic chromo-
somes (or regions) usually synthesize
DNA after the euchromatic ones do.
In P. obscurus, also, the heterochro-
matized chromosomes synthesize DNA
following the completion of synthesis
by the euchromatic set. Thus the same
chromosomes which were replicated ﬁrst
in the fathers are replicated second in
the sons. The shift in timing may re-
ﬂect profound changes in chromosome
Organization concomitant with hetero-
chromatization but no such inference
may yet be drawn.

Lack of Genetic

Determination of Sex

Observations on parthenogenetic and
sexual mealy bugs indicate that sex is
not determined genetically. Since heter-
ochromatization occurs in one sex and
not in the other, we might at ﬁrst as-
sume that sex is determined genetical-
ly, and that heterochromatization is
Slmply the product of male develop—
ment. There is no evidence, however,
that female embryos differ genetically
from male embryos in the sexual spe-

10 JULY 1964

PBJI f ,
N "5'0“
60

Cleavage
\ I
nucleus

  

 

m

/.@

2N EUCHROMATIC
3N ‘ HET'EROCHROMATIC.

CHROMOCENTERS IN
o'&9 EMBRYOS

Fig. 4. Chromocenter formation in an adjunct tissue. A typical pentaploid (5N) tissue
is formed. Later, when each of these pentaploid nuclei undergoes an abortive en-
domitosis, three of the ﬁve chromosome sets become heterochromatic and two remain
euchromatic. The heterochromatic chromosomes clump together to form a chromo-
center. The process occurs in both male and female embryos.

cies, and in the parthenogenetic species
there is proof that they do not.

Even though there is no question
that the heterochromatic set is of pater-
nal origin in the male of the sexual
species, are these male embryos geneti-
cally different from the female em-
bryos? Considerable circumstantial evi-
dence suggests that the mother deter-
mines sex by producing two types of
eggs, different in substance but geneti-
cally equivalent. For example, the sex
ratio ﬂuctuates widely from female to
female and is subject to environmental
inﬂuence (18). Sex ratio is markedly
altered in favor of males by aging the
mother prior to mating. There is partial
sexual dichronism—that is, the male
and female embryos tend to be de-
posited at different times during oviposi-
tion—and the sexual dichronism can
also be altered in pattern by maternal
aging. However, these results may still
be explained in terms of directed segre-
gation, during oogenesis, of chromo-
somes bearing the sex factors.

Recent studies rule out this latter eX-
planation for the parthenogenetic soft
scale insect, Pulvz’naria hydrangeae
(19), in which embryos of both types,
with and without heterochromatization,
can be produced parthenogenetically by
completely homozygous females. This
chromosome system is shown diagram-

matically in Fig. 3. Oogenesis is meiotic.
The two polar bodies are eliminated by
division on abnormal spindles. The egg
nucleus divides once, and its products
unite to form a diploid zygote substi-
tute. The large majority of the em-
bryos are female, with both sets of
chromosomes euchromatic, whereas the
remainder of the embryos have the
heterochromatization characteristic of
males. Except in the case of mutation,
the males as well as the females must
be strictly homozygous. Adult males
have never been reported, and the de-
velopment of the male embryos has not
been followed beyond the late cleavage
stages. However, the total absence of
sperm from spermathecae and ovarian
ducts of adult females indicates that if
males do develop further, they are not
functional. In a related European spe-
cies, P. mesembryanthemi, which has
not yet been studied cytologically,
males which are apparently produced
parthenogenetically survive to adult-
hood but never mate (20).

In this soft-scale insect there are
hence no genetic differences between the
class of embryos in which heterochro-
matization occurs and the class in which
all the chromosomes remain euchro-
matic. And in the male. embryo there
can be no genetic differences between
the set which becomes heterochromatic

133

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

7 DH
‘ residues

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

D

Fig. 5. Spermatogenesis in the Comstockiella system. The euchromatic and hetero-
chromatic sets lose their difference, except for the D pair of homologues; pairing
begins between an early, or preprophase, stage and mid-prophase (A) and IS complete
at late prophase (B). At anaphase the members of the pairs simply separate to opposne
poles. One pair of chromosomes, the D pair, behaves differently. Usually the two
members of this pair do not associate closely. The member derived from the hetero-
chromatic set, DH, is eliminated at anaphase or telophase, and its division products
form two residues which slowly disintegrate. The DE chromosome, from the euchro-
matic set, divides equationally; thus, each sperm is genetically complete.

CHROMOSOME PAIRS
PERFORMING “D" ROLE

     

 

l
V

Fig. 6. Variation in the D chromosomes. In Ancepaspis tridentata there
pairs of chromosomes, and these “take turns,” from cyst to cyst
D chromosomes. Because of the several different types
taneously, the difference between the medium-sized and
quently obscured at prophase of spermatogenesis. How
the DH residues are clearly apparent in the early stage

134

are only three
, in appearing as the
of modiﬁcation going on simul-
the small chromosomes is fre-
ever, the three size classes of
s of spermiogenesis.

 

and the set which remains euchromatic,
Male embryos tend to be produced near
the end of oviposition, so it may be as-
sumed that the female produces two
types of eggs, a more numerous type
in which no heterochromatization oc-
curs and a less numerous type in which
heterochromatization does occur. Prior
passage of a chromosome through a
male is not, in this case, a requisite for
its heterochromatization. Given an al-
most identical origin of the two hap-
loid sets, how can heterochromatization
be induced in only one set? For the
present, only speculations can be of-
fered. The process of induction of
heterochromatization may greatly am-
plify very minute differences in the
chromosome which. in turn, stem from
very minute differences in past develop-
mental history. One of the two haploid
nuclei may pick up some substance 10-
calized in the egg cytoplasm, with the
consequence that its chromosomes be-
come markedly altered.

It seems likely that similar events
may go on in the sexual mealy bug, and
that there are no genetic factors deter-
mining sex. But more data are needed
before we can rule out the slight possi-
bility that the parthenogenetic species
has evolved an entirely different mech-
anism to produce males, and useless
ones at that.

Heteroehromatization and Sex

In the examples given above, hetero-
chromatization has been associated with
the male sex, but this relationship IS
not a strict one either. In some other
mealy bug species we ﬁnd the typical
heterochromatization restricted to the
germ line and just part of the sorrla
of the male. The remainder of the Us-
sues are similar to those of the female;
both sets are euchromatic, and there
are no chromocenters. There is thus
considerable variation in heterochroma-
tization in the males. In some distant
f€1atives of the mealy bug, the armored
scale insects, most of the species dem-
onstrate a genetic system in which the
Paternal set is completely eliminated
from those embryos destined to become
male. The father’s chromosomes are
discarded at late cleavage, and the male
continues development thereafter as a
conventional haploid. . .

An example of heterochromatlI1 .111
female coccids is provided by studles
0f polyploid tissues. In most 0f te
armored scales, as in many other COC‘

SCIENCE. VOL 145

 

 




 

aids, the polar bodies combine with
cleavage nuclei to form an adjunct tis-
sue of large polyploid cells. Like plant
endosperm, this adjunct tissue is geneti-
cally a dead end. Its function, as
Schrader (21) demonstrated, is to house
intracellular symbionts. The course of
events in certain species of the armored
scale insect is illustrated in Fig. 4. The
two polar bodies combine with one
cleavage nucleus to give a pentaploid
nucleus, which then undergoes mitosis
to produce a pentaploid sector in the
embryo. During the course of division,
three of the ﬁve sets of chromosomes
become heterochromatic, and these
eventually clump together to form a
persistent chromocenter. This process
occurs in both male and female em-
bryos, constituting a clear-cut example
of heterochromatization not associated
with sex.

Reversals of the Heterochromatic State

In the cases mentioned so far, the
heterochromatic chromosomes have
been discarded, either during spermio-
genesis or in the expiration of a dead-
end tissue. The next example, from
the mealy bug Pseudococcus obscurus
(22), shows how supernumerary chro-
mosomes can add another dimension to
the mealy bug system. The normal chro-
mosomes Vary little in size, and the
supernumerary is only slightly smaller
than the smallest of them. The number
of supernumeraries ranges from zero to
as high as six in some natural popula—

tions. They are heterochromatic in some

tissues of the female, and in the male
they behave like typical members of the
heterochromatic set until spermatogen-
esis. At this stage they suddenly “change
sides” and become even less condensed
than the euchromatic chromosomes.
They divide in the expected equational
fashion during the ﬁrst spermatogenetic
division and segregate with the euchro—
matic set during the second. Their in-
clusion in the sperm is not always ef-
fected, however, since about 10 percent
lag between the euchromatic and the
heterochromatic derivatives or segre-
gate with the heterochromatic set. The
SUpernumerary chromosomes thus show
that the heterochromatic state does
not necessarily lead to a dead end in
the mealy bug system.

A second example, from another
chromosome system in the armored
scale insects, indicates that the regular
members of a newly heterochromatized

10 JULY 1964

cysts

MEALY BUG
SYSTEM

I‘m

goo

\,

TRANSMISSION:
HAPLOID

  
  

COMSTOCKIELLA

SYSTEM
0«DE
, H
«D ‘

\.
9

TRAN SMISSIONZ
SUB-DIPLOID

Fig. 7. Combination of mealy bug and Comstockiella systems. Both systems occur in
several species of armored scale insects, frequently in the same testis, but never in
the same cyst. The mealy bug cysts transmit only the euchromatic chromosomes, and
the transmission from these is thus haploid. The Comstockiella cysts demonstrate a
subdiploid transmission in that they transmit all the chromosomes except the D“. An
individual male can thus breed as a haploid and subdiploid.

chromosome set can undergo a similar
reversal. This system, which occurs in
a minority of armored scale insects, is
called the Comstockiella system, after
the genus in which it was ﬁrst discov-
ered (4, 23). It is quite like the mealy
bug system until spermatogenesis. Sper-
matogenesis consists of but a single di-
vision (Fig. 5). Immediately prior to
the prophase of this division there is a
reversal of heterochromatization such
that the distinction between the euchro—
matic and the heterochromatic sets
breaks down. Homologous chromo-
somes pair, and then simply separate
from each other at anaphase, apparent-
ly at random with respect to parental
origin. Two nuclei result, and both
form sperm. One pair of chromosomes,
however, always behaves differently
from the remainder; it has been called
the D pair (4, 23). The D pair usually
retains some chromatic difference, so
that the euchromatic D homologue and
the heterochromatic D homologue can
often be recognized at late prophase.
Both of the D homologues divide equa—
tionally while the paired chromosomes
are separating from each other reduc-
tionally. Immediately thereafter the
heterochromatic D chromosomes are
eliminated, sometimes by lagging at
anaphase, but more often by ejection

during or after telophase. We might
conclude that the D chromosome is a
genetically ﬁxed entity, in this way
analogous to a sex chromosome which
may often show differential behavior
during meiosis. This may be true in cer-
tain species, but in others it is deﬁnitely
not true. The situation in Ancepaspis
tridentata, an armored scale from Mex-
ico, is shown in Fig. 6. The haploid
number is three, and each chromosome
can be recognized by its length. In some
cysts the long chromosome pair is
elected to perform the D role; in others,
the middle-sized pair, or the small pair.
In any one cyst there is uniformity, but
variation in the testis is completely ran-
dom. On checking the sizes of the resi-
dues during early spermiogenesis, when
each cyst forms a discrete entity, it is
possible to observe a completely hap-
hazard arrangement.

The fate of the heterochromatic set
in the Comstockiella system is the op-
posite of that in the mealy bug sys-
tem; instead of being discarded it re-
mains in the genetic continuum, except,
of course, for the one D member.
When the D member varies from cyst
to cyst, that chromosome which is elim—
inated in one cyst will be transmitted
by the adjoining'cyst, which in turn
eliminates a different one.

135

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Variable Transmission

The election of different pairs Of
homologues to the D role is one Of
the two cases known in the coccids in
which the hereditary transmission var-
ies from cyst to cyst of the same ani-
mal. The D chromosomes exhibit an
essentially mealy bug'type of behavior,
with retention of only the euchromatic
member, and Brown (4) has suggested
that the D type of behavior has thus
persevered during the evolution of the
Comstockiella from the mealy bug sys-
tem. The rotation of the D role among
the various homologues adds a further
complexity. We have no information as
to how the D pair is chosen; since
both the DH and the DE chromosomes
must simultaneously alter their be-
havior from that of their respective fel-
lows, it seems reasonable to presume
that the mechanism depends in part
on genetic homology. The synchroni-
zation of the DE with the DH chromo-
somes, or vice versa, cannot be simply
a consequence of pairing failure, as the
D homologues will pair in some in-
stances without modiﬁcation of subse-
quent behavior.

Several species of armored scale in—
sects have both the mealy bug chromo-
some system and the Comstockiella sys—
tem frequently occurring together in the
same testis, but again cyst-speciﬁc (4,
24). As previously mentioned, these
two systems appear to be the same un-
til spermatogenesis. Either one system
or the other occurs in each cyst (Fig. 7),
again at random with respect to posi-
tion within the testis. From those cysts
in which the mealy bug system occurs,
only the maternal chromosomes are
transmitted; in the others, those with a
Comstockiella system, all but the heter-
ochromatic D chromosome get into the
sperm. Thus, a single animal breeds as
both a haploid and a subdiploid. De-
velopmental differences, however slight,
among the individual cysts must be de-
termining this marked difference in
chromosome behavior and hereditary
transmission.

136

Conclusions

How can we use this various 3119
diverse information in an attempt to
resolve our questions regarding the ori—
gin, function, and fate of heterochro—
matin in coccids?

With respect to origin, all products
of gametogenesis undergo heterochro-
matization in one system or another.
In the sexual system of the mealy bug.
it is the sperm. In the parthenogenetic
system of the soft scale, it is an im-
mediate product of the egg nucleus.
In the adjunct tissue of certain armored
scales, the three sets becoming hetero-
chromatic may be from the two polar
bodies, but at least one polar body
must make a contribution, since a cleav-
age nucleus can contribute only two
sets.

With respect to fate, the heterochro—
matic chromosomes can either be ex-
cluded from the genetic continuum or.
as in the Comstockiella system. lose
their heterochromaticity and take their
place in the continuum.

With respect to genetic function. the
only information available comes from
the sexual system of the mealy bug.
However, it seems reasonable to as—
sume that heterochromatization else-
where also represents a change to a
generalized inertness.

In the life cycle, heterochromatiza-
tion seems to be geared to gross de-
velopmental differences and gross dif-
ferences in hereditary transmission. The
developmental differences, to summa-
rize, are male versus female, germ line
versus soma, and adjunct tissue versus
the regular embryo. The gross dif-
ferences in hereditary transmission are.
in the primitive mealy bugs, haploid
transmission by the diploid male versus
diploid transmission by the likewise dip-
loid female. In some armored scales
the heterochromatic chromosome which
is not to be transmitted (the D“) varies
from cyst to cyst, and in other armored
scales, which have both the Comstocki-
ella system and the mealy bug system.
haploid and subdiploid transmission

may both be found in the same testis.

There are only a few hints as to the
induction. regulation, and maintenance
of the heterochromatic state. But it is
obvious. from the parthenogenetic soft
scale and the cyst-to-cyst variation in
the armored scales. that the deve10p-
mental differences associated with the
inception of heterochromatization are
at present as obscure as the later dif-
ferences. associated with the hetero-
chromatic state. are gross and obvious.

The only general conclusion that can
be safely stated at present is that the
potentiality tor heterochromatization
has provided a means whereby further
differential chromosome behavior can
be elicited. and that this potentiality has
been exploited during the course of
evolution in the establishment of a con-
trasting assortment ot~ chromosome sys-
tents.

References and Notes

1. S. ()hno, W. W. Kaplzin, R. Kinosita, Exptl.
(it’ll Res. 18, 415 (1959).

.M. F. Lyon. (:‘t'rlt'l. Res. 4, 93 (1963); S.
()hno and B. \l (‘attanaclL (‘ytogenetics
(Basel) I, 129 (1963).

l. S. Hughes-Sehradt-i. xtdi'un. Gen. 2, 127
(1948).

4. S. W. Bfnwn. (llIiJUll)\()"1(l 14. 360 (1963).

5. F. Sehrader. Biol. Bull. 40. 259 (1921).

, /. ”fits. /:H)]. 134. 149 (1929).

7. S. Hughes-Schrader. Biol. Bull. 69, 462 (1935).

1 J

 

H. S. W. Brown and W. A. Nelson-Rees,
Genetics 46. 98“ t 1961 ).

9. 1:. Sehrader and S. Hughes-Schrader, Quart-
Rt’l‘. Bin]. 6, 411 '1‘131).

10. \V. A. Nelson—Ree~«. Genetics 47. 661 (1962).

11. U. Nur and H. S (‘handra. Am. Naturalist
97. 197 (1963)

12. U. Nur, J. .Urn/i/zuf. 111, 173 (1962).

13. H. S. Chandra. ( Itmmrisuma 14. 330 (1963)-

14. . (it'rlt'lit'\ 47_ 1441 (1962). '

15. A. S. Bacr. 111C\I\. l'niversity 0f Californla
(1963).

It». A. Lima-de-iaria, .I. “imp/H's. Biochcm. Cytol.
6, 457 (1959).

I7. .1. 11. Taylor. (bid. 7. 455 (1960).

is. w. A. NC1Sttn-Rccs_ .1. Exp”. 2001. 144, 111

(1960).

. U. Nur. (limmwmm 14. 123 (1963)-

. 1’. Pesson. Sm‘. Iinronml. France Ann. 1109

71 (1941).

 

[J—
cc

 

21. F. Schrader. Biol. Bull. 45. 279 (1923).

22. U. Nur. Chrommmmz 13. 249 (1962)-

23. S. W. Brown. Counter 42. 362 (1957).

24. (In-(mammal to. 278 (I959).

25. The studies summari/ed in this article have

been supported in part by grants ((34497,
0.9772. (38-413) to the senior author from
NSF. In addition. support was PrOVIded
at various times for Drs. Baer. Chandl'fb
Nelson-Rees. and Nur by a training grant 13
genetics (28-367) from NIH. W. Geral
Robison. Sally RietIel. and Clinton Clefli:
land helped with the preparation 0
manuscript.

SCIENCE, VOL- “5

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

News and Comment

Space: Formidable Political Base
Overshadows Attempts to Revise
Administration’s Lunar Program

As Project Apollo, the manned lu-
nar landing program, moves into its 4th
year, the political alignments that af-
fect this vast technological enterprise
are becoming solidiﬁed and reasonably
predictable.

Space, like civil rights, veterans’
beneﬁts, or urban renewal, has now
become a well-rooted part of the Amer-
ican landscape—far more so than is
generally realized by many persons
who, for one reason or another, feel
an aversion to spending $20 billion for
landing a man on the moon. It has its
own politics, its own economics, .and
its own congressional champions. And,
while opponents of the manned lunar
landing continue to assail the venture
for what they consider to be an er—
roneous allocation of national resources,
the basic political reality in space is
that Apollo has passed beyond the
question of whether it is right or wrong.
As in the case of the child who is told
that he is going to bed and can have
a choice of red or blue pajamas, the
basic issue of Apollo has been decided
and politically sustained: there will be
a rapidly paced, costly attempt to carry
out a manned lunar landing, and about
the only thing left open by the poli-
tics and economics of the situation is
Whether the attempt will be within this
decade or in the very ﬁrst few years
Of the 1970’s. So far, and with little
difﬁculty, the proponents of a landing
In this decade have had their way, and
though the opposition is becoming
broader and louder, the fact is that not
even the outer political perimeter of
the Space program has yet been seri-
ously challenged.

It is clear, however, that the as-
saults will increase in volume, for as
space has developed a political con-
stituency, it has also inevitably devel-
OPFd. a political opposition—though
thls 18 only now beginning to show
10 JULY 1964

signs of a potential for effective ac-
tivity. A

The development of this opposition
is a relatively recent occurrence, and
it comes long after the space program
has deeply implanted itself on the na-
tional scene. When President Kennedy,
3 weeks after the Bay of Pigs ﬁasco,
suddenly asked Congress to add $549
million to the space budget (raising it
to $1.8 billion) as a down payment on
a moon launching in this decade, he
was operating in a period of public
excitement that virtually canceled out
the traditional processes of public policy
making. Many members of Congress
were privately uncertain, doubtful, or
opposed, but voted for the increase
without a public quibble, quite prob-
ably because they felt that the young
President had already suffered such
great humiliation at the hands of Castro
that they weren’t ’going to turn him
down on something that he deemed
highly important. Various groups in
American public life that regularly tell
the world what they think about major
governmental undertakings were simi-
larly silent, with the result that when
the space program—with Apollo as its
principal part—was a vulnerable ﬂedg-
ling, a sort of tacit conspiracy to with-
hold dissent assured it a period of un-
opposed growth. It thereupon grew, as
no peacetime program has ever grown:
from $1.8 billion in ﬁscal 1962 to $3.7
billion the following year, and to $5.1
billion in the ﬁscal year that has just
ended.

And, as this money went out into
the American economy, space developed
a constituency that, in terms of eco-
nomic and political self-interest, dwarfs
the lately arrived opposition—an oppo-
sition, signiﬁcantly, whose only com-
mon meeting ground is a feeling that
Apollo’s money could be better spent
on earth.

The breadth and depth of this con-
stituency are illustrated by a few sta-
tistics, which, though open to question
in some cases, leave no doubt that the

plan to land a man on the moon has
become a critical economic factor in
the lives of an extremely large number
of people. According to NASA testi-
mony before Congress, 300,000 persons
will be employed on Apollo by next
year; 31 states received NASA prime
contract awards in excess of $1 million
last year; of these states, eight received
awards of over $50 million each. In
ﬁscal 1963, NASA provided $73 mil-
lion in grants and contracts to 139 uni-
versities, including many institutions
which were largely ignored by other
federal granting agencies, and which
therefore have sound reasons for grati-
tude to NASA.

The development of NASA’s constit-
uency is further illuminated by other
ﬁgures. The population of Brevard
County, Florida, site of Cape Kennedy,
rose from 23,000 in 1950 to 111,000
in 1960; the population of Huntsville,
Alabama, site of the Marshall Space
Flight Center, rose from 16,000 in
1950 to 72,000 in 1960. In Hancock
County, Mississippi, where NASA has
acquired 140,000 acres for a static
rocket test installation, 3000 construc-
tion workers, in the employ of 75 con-
tractors, are building some $500 million
worth of facilities. It is expected that,
by next summer, the new installation
will directly employ 1700 persons.-
Local businessmen happily prophesy
that the newly arrived employees and
their families will help increase the
population by 9630, creating business
for 51 new retail stores, a need for
schools for 2425 additional. children,
and an increase in local bank deposits
of $8.8 million.

In Michoud, near New Orleans,
Louisiana, where NASA is building a
vast facility for the fabrication of space ‘
vehicles, the local chamber of com-
merce is anticipating a population in-
crease of 35,900, a $33.1 million a
year increase in retail sales, $22.9 mil-
lion more in bank deposits, 9700 more
passenger cars, and 6500 more workers
in non-space businesses.

The ﬁgures and expectations in other
parts of the country provide a similar
story of people with a strong economic
interest in space, and, as might be ex-
pected, the most determined congres-
sional supporters of space expenditures
—by coincidence or not—are from
space states. With rare exceptions they
hew to the cause of space with the
same diligence that farm-state legislators
show in maintaining their constituents’
access to the US. Treasury. California,

137

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

which receives some 50 percent of
NASA’s outlays, is not likely to breed
legislators opposed to space, especially
at a time when California’s defense-
related industries are suffering from
budgetary cutbacks. Nor is opposition,
or even neutrality, likely to prosper
among the other principal beneﬁciaries
of the space establishment—Texas, Flor-
ida, Alabama, Louisiana, and Mississip-
pi, most of which, because of their one-
party status, have acquired congres-
sional seniority which gives them power
disproportionate to their numbers.

To a great extent, then, it is the
development of this political-economic
foundation that explains the moon pro-
gram’s ability to thrive long past its
emergence from the political incubator
in which it spent its ﬁrst few years.
The existence of this base, and the com-
plementary existence of a nascent po-
litical-economic opposition, was per-
haps most clearly spelled out 2 weeks
ago, when Senator Fulbright, from
space-less Arkansas, sought to cut the
Apollo program’s budget by 10 percent.
The Senator, who argued that terrestrial
welfare needs should be given priority
over landing on the moon in this dec-
ade, was challenged by Senator Hol-
land of Florida, who pointed out, quite
correctly, that the space budget has be-
come a vehicle for putting a great deal
of money into the nation’s universities.
To which Fulbright replied:

The State of Florida is a principal bene-
ﬁciary of this bill. I appreciate the Sena-
tor’s [Holland’s] interest in it. I would
be interested in it too, if that kind of
money were being spent in Arkansas. . . .
If it were being spent there it would be
extremely difficult for me to oppose it.
Not having any strong state interest in-
volved, I can be objective about it.

However, when it came to a vote,
“strong state interest” appears to have
prevailed, for, by 43 to 38, the Senate
rejected the I'D-percent cut. An analysis
of the vote shows that, with one or two
exceptions, space-state Senators were
against the lO-percent cut, while those
whose states are on the low end of
NASA’s eXpenditure list were for cut-
ting back the funds.

No Real Challenge

Since a ﬁve-vote loss in a lOO-mem-
her body is by no means a drubbing,
opponents of Apollo are currently de-
riving a good deal of encouragement
from Fulbright’s effort. But the politi-
cal strength of the space program is
vastly greater than the vote suggests.

138

(After the Fulbright cut was voted
down, the Senate swiftly vioted.78 to -
to give NASA $5.246 billion, just $57
million below the administration re—
quest.) The strength, which in fact has
not yet even been subjected to a seri-
ous challenge, derives from a fairly
complex series of factors. .

First of all, it is as inevrtable as
such things can be inevitable that, even
Without a manned lunar landing pro-
gram, there would be a rather large pro-
gram of space exploration. Such a pro-
gram was under way through the Eisen-
hower administration, and, in harmony
with the growing federal role in re-
search and development, it was regu-
larly increasing right up to the time
Kennedy proposed the lunar landing.
Secondly, the national trauma produced
by Sputnik resulted in space becoming
closely associated with the most un-
touchable of legislative issues—national
security—a term which assures easy
passage for virtually anything to which
it can reasonably be applied. (The Na-
tional Defense Education Act would
probably still be languishing in the
Capitol if it had simply been titled the
National Education Act.)

Cold War Motivation

The Soviets’ space effort provided
an impetus which Eisenhower exploited
only moderately, but which Kennedy
exploited vigorously. Finally, the Ken-
nedy administration demonstrated a
good deal of political shrewdness in dis-
tributing space largesse to assure maxi-
mum political return. Geographical
characteristics and existing capabilities
limited the opportunities for site selec-
tion (Chicago, for example. couldn't
compete for Cape Kennedy’s role as a
launching site). But where possible. the
plums went to the suitable sites that
would bring the best congressional divi-
dends. If any one member of Congress
could have caused ﬁscal misery for
NASA, it was Representative Albert
Thomas, from near Houston, who heads
the appropriations subcommittee which
passes on NASA funds. NASA, after
careful study of various site possibili-
t1es, concluded that Houston was the
best choice for its $350-million manned
spacecraft center. Thomas has since
snlpped the space budget here and
there, .but considering that he virtually
demollshed the administration’s civil
gefense program and gutted the NSF
Isilsdlgesvalsasgtrgvizil; (on the .grounds that

g too rapidly!) hlS oen-
tleness to NASA is grounds for woncder.

Thus. (‘ongress initially acquiesced
in the space program and then, as Vari-
ous regions of the country deveIOped
an economic interest in space, it begame
an ally of the program. But the impetus
for the present scale of effort Came
from Kennedy. whose motivations, al-
though dovetailing with those of the
Congress, were considerably different,

(‘onceivahl_\. even without the Bay
of Pigs disaster. Kennedy would have
set forth the moon landing as a na-
tional goal. tllie fact is. however, that
when he inherited Eisenhower’s space
budget. he asked (‘ongress to add only
Sllo million to it. and it was only
after the (‘nlmn episode that he pro-
posed the moon program and sought
money for it. \‘ASA now argues that
the moon program had its origins in
the liisenhower administration. which
may he the case. but it is difﬁcult to
reconcile this assertion with Eisenhow-
er‘s description of Apollo as “nuts.”)
For Kennedy. however, technical su-
premacy was a mandatory goal for this
nation in its international relations as
well as in its domestic life. Counting
heavily in administration thinking were
USIA opinion polls which showed that,
in many around the world,
space achievements are equated with
scientific and technical strength. The
inﬂuence of tliesc polls, which are not
released to the public. appears to have
carried a great deal of weight in ad-
ministration cottncils, for, when P“‘
vately defending the space program,
many government officials frankly as-
sert that the program cannot reason-
ably he assessed simply in terms Of Its
scientific and technical value. The
image of this nation as the leadlng
power of the world. they contend,
could not he maintained if the Rus-
sians were running away with 813?“:‘3
technology.

nations

Technical Supremacy

In addition. KennedY~ though.n0t
well versed in the substance 0f 50161106
and technology. was keenly attuned :3
the Power of science and technOIOgy t
affect the world and. justiﬁably 0r ciliig,
alighted upon the manned lunar 13“ :1
as a focal point for effort that W0 m
bring forth the Nation’s max1mu1i‘
capabilities in the acquisition and app
cation of knowledge. Thus, Wlt
White House pushing and COnge
sponsive to being pushed. the
program, in a relatively short . 1113‘
achieved a political and economlbce o
turity that makes it quite capa 5

SCIENCE: VOL‘ 14

ss IC‘
Sp ace
peI'lO ’

 




 

 

 

withstanding the attacks that are now
increasing in volume.

These attacks, it should be noted,
suffer from lack of any common inter-
est outside of preferences for spending
Apollo’s money on other enterprises.
For a time the Air Force was doing its
best to undermine NASA so that it could
inherit a larger role in space. But since
the Air Force has been unable to con-
vince the civilian managers of the De-
fense Department that there is a mili-
tary job, except for reconnaissance, that
can be done better from space than
from the air, it has, for the present at
least, lost out in the battle over space
jurisdiction. Accordingly, it has now
ceased sniping at NASA and, presum-
ably, is reconciled to NASA’s deve10p-
ing the technology that it might ulti-
mately take over.

Thus, what is happening in the poli-
tics of space is that space is now blend-
ing into the general national political
scene. It has its friends and foes, its
economic interests and a growing num-
ber of economic opponents, in space-
poor states and, increasingly, among
successful non-space industries that
don’t like to see their taxes going to
a fully government-supported industrial
effort. But the space establishment is
now well founded, and those who
would like to alter it in any substan-
tial way have a formidable task ahead
of them. The task is made all the
more formidable by the fact that Presi-
dent Johnson has conspicuously and,
probably, irretrievably lashed his
prestige to the present program. And,
though criticism of the moon program
is increasing, in books, in newspaper
editorials, and on the Senate ﬂoor, it
would be well to remember that in
American politics there is often a great
disparity between the ability to make
noise and the ability to control events.
So far, despite the rising volume of
anti-space sentiments, the forces be-
hind the administration program remain
so potent that the administration hasn’t
had to resort to even a bit of arm
twisting to get its way. For window
dressing purposes it is now often said
that Congress is taking “hard looks”
at NASA and trimming its budget,
but when all is said and done, NASA
will receive some $5.2 billion this
year, which is quite close to what it
sought. Doubts may exist about the
Wisdom of a manned lunar landing in
thls decade, but the doubts have not
been reﬂected in money, which is the
true measure of political power.

—-D. S. GREENBERG

10 JULY 1964

Drug Politics: Industry Seeks
“Court of Appeals” To Challenge
FDA Rulings on Drug Safety

The relationship between the federal
government and the pharmaceutical in-
dustry is something like the relation-
ship of a father and child on a seesaw:
the child may have the illusion that they
are perfectly balanced, or even, on
occasion, that his weight has thrust his
father in the air—but all along his
father’s feet are on the ground. The
industry’s periodic cries of pain suggest
that it is being buffeted about by su—
perior governmental forces, but the
balance between industry and govern-
ment is at best a tottering one, and for
the most part the industry stays
sturdily rooted to the ground.

For this reason it is hard to take
too seriously proposals of the drug in-
dustry which would have the effect of
insulating it still more against what it
regards as the ravages of federal regu-
lation. Nonetheless such a proposal is
now afoot, and it appears to have the
unanimous support of the industry as
well as considerable backing from the
medical profession and academic
circles. Essentially the proposal calls
for a scientiﬁc advisory board to
which manufacturers could appeal un-
favorable decisions of the Food and
Drug Administration.

The proposal is in its early stages,
and full details have not yet been con-
sidered by any of its pr0ponents. Testi-
fying before a House Government
Operations subcommittee headed by
Representative L. H. Fountain (D—
N.C.) during an investigation of the
safety of new drugs, Austin Smith,
president of the drug industry trade
group, the Pharmaceutical Manu-
facturers Association (PMA) said: “It
is also our belief that a Council for
Scientiﬁc Review should be established
to provide an appeal mechanism for
the review of drug evaluation prob-
lems. On purely legal matters the Food
and Drug Administration can be chal-
lenged in the courts, but on scientiﬁc
issues there is no formal or effective
appeal. And yet in matters involving
the toxicity and eﬂicacy of drugs the
agency is called upon to administer
not only the laws of man but the laws
of science as well. If the FDA makes
a ruling or an interpretation on a sci-
entiﬁc point, it is almost certain to
stand, even though the ruling is con-
sidered unsound in the opinion of com-
petent scientists.” After going on to
point out that an appeal mechanism

exists for government decisions on
pesticides and color additives, Smith
concluded: “It seems anomalous that
the manufacturers of pesticide chem-
icals and of color additives have the
right of appeal to an independent
body, while the drug industry—which
surely is as vital to the health of the
American people—has no such right.”

There is no doubt that PMA’s view
is widely shared. Smith spoke for the
industry as a whole; but representatives
of several drug ﬁrms have recently
made statements indicating their in-
dividual support for the group proposal.
References to the desirability of an
appeal procedure have appeared fre-
quently in the drug and medical trade
press in the past few months. In addi-
tion, a plan almost identical to Smith’s
was suggested by I. S. Ravdin, vice-
president of the University of Pennsyl-
vania for medical affairs, in a letter to
the AMA News last April, and formally
endorsed by the Great Philadelphia
Committee for Medical-Pharmaceutical
Sciences, which is composed of repre-
sentatives of the area’s medical schools
and drug companies. Ravdin said last
week that his letter had also drawn a
considerable mail response from inde-
pendent practicing and academic
physicians.

The interest in a scientiﬁc “court of
appeals” grows out of two things—
the fundamental dissatisfaction of the
drug industry with what it feels is its
sometimes cavalier treatment by the
FDA, and an apparently widespread
indignation over the recent handling
by the FDA of an antidepressant drug
called Parnate.

Parnate Case

Parnate, a product of Smith, Kline
& French Laboratories of Philadelphia,
went on the market in February 1961

and quickly achieved considerable
popularity for use in moderate to
severe cases of mental depression.

Although the drug’s usual effect is to
lower blood pressure, it was soon found
that Parnate had the occasional “para-
doxical” effect of raising blood pressure,
and that it was associated with cases
of arterial hypertension, with strokes,
and with a small number of fatalities.
In October 1963, the company and the
government consulted and the com-
pany issued a warning letter to
doctors which described the diﬂiculties
that had been encountered and cau-
tioned physicians to be on the lookout
for them. After the alert, reports of
trouble continued to mount: by Feb-

139

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ruary 1964 the FDA had reports of
about 430 cases of arterial hyperten-
sion, about 50 strokes, and 15 or 16
fatalities. It was estimated that about
31/2 million people had used the drug.

At this point the FDA concluded that
Parnate should be taken off the market,
and informed the company. The com-
pany disagreed. The two dickered a bit,
with the company proposing an im—
partial scientiﬁc review, but FDA stood
fast. In the end the company agreed to
withdraw the drug voluntarily, “under
protest,” since the alternative—allow-
ing it to remain on the market pend-
ing a hearing when the government
had already marked it as dangerous——
left the company open to charges of
caring only about proﬁt, and seemed
unsatisfactory.

“With all due respect for the FDA,”
said the company’s notice to physicians,
“it is the opinion of the SK & F medical
staff and the opinion of many eminent
physicians whom they have consulted
that the beneﬁts of Parnate outweigh
the risks; that it is a useful and valu-
able drug for the treatment of a serious
illness and should remain available to
the medical profession. . . . Neverthe-
less, under protest, we are withdrawing
Parnate from the US. market. We are
taking this step because under the
present law and regulations, where
there is an honest difference of medi-
cal opinion on scientiﬁc matters, there
is no effective appeal to an impartial
body of medical experts by whom
the matter can be considered in a
calm scientiﬁc manner. Such a pro-
cedure has been strongly advocated
by leading medical authorities.”

Already at odds over the funda-
mental issue, FDA antagonized the
company still further by releasing news
of the drug withdrawal to the press
before the company’s own announce—
ment had time to reach the medical
profession. Although presumably the
result of mismanagement rather than
malice, FDA’s disclosure had the effect
both of embarrassing the physicians
who had prescribed the drug and of
alarming their patients—a situation
that the company and the doctors,
understandably, hate.

Following the withdrawal, the com-
pany requested a hearing on the drug,
and assembled a Variety of medical
experts who agreed to testify on its
behalf. The hearing was postponed
several times while both sides were
gathering their evidence. Simultaneous-
ly, the two were negotiating about the

140

possibility of putting Parnate back on
the market on a more restricted basrs.

During these preparations and nego-
tiations the FDA was busily studying
the drug, and on 15 June—-the day
before the hearing was to begin—the
agency announced that it was permit-
ting the drug to reenter the market,
for use in reduced dosages in hos—
pitalized cases of severe depression,
or in cases outside the hospital in which
other medication had failed. The FDA
said that its decision was based “on
study of the world’s medical literature
on the drUg, evaluation of controlled
studies conducted with the drug, and a
consideration of the views of top ex-
perts in the ﬁeld of psychotherapy.”
(Parnate will again be available on 1
August.)

Before or After?

To this not very edifying story the
drug industry and other interested
parties immediately appended the
moral that if an appeal to a scientiﬁc
panel had been possible when the FDA
decision was ﬁrst made, the agency
would have saved face, the company
would have protected its reputation as
well as its earnings, and doctors and
patients would have been spared a
good deal of unnecessary confusion and
alarm. Thus, Medical Tribune, a medi-
cal affairs newspaper distributed free
to doctors, editorialized: “The steps
taken to restore [Parnate] . . . to the
market are precisely those that should
have been taken prior to the with-
drawal.” To Walter Munns, president
of Smith, Kline & French, “The whole
episode emphasizes the beneﬁt of close
consultation by the FDA with the best
qualiﬁed members of the medical pro-
fession when major administrative ac-
tion is contemplated.”

Attaching that moral to the Parnate
story is vaguely reminiscent of the
parody of popular quiz shows in which
the answers are supplied and the ques-
tions have to be deduced from the an-
swers. In this case, the answer is
“establish a committee.” But it is not
clear whether the question is “How can
you provide maximum security to the
pharmaceutical industry?” or “How can
you best promote drug safety?”

If a review board system were in

existence, modeled after the pesticide

review panels, Parnate might have been
handled something like this: Following
FDA’s decision, Smith, Kline & French
could have requested the appointment
of an advisory panel. Candidates would

then be nominated by the National
Academy of Sciences—National Re-
search Council. and chosen by the
FDA commissioner from among the
nominees. The committee would meet
and make its recommendations to the
commissioner. who would then make
his ruling. This ruling might then be
appealed still further in a public hear-
ing. Again according to the pesticide
model, the time scale for all this pon-
dering would be the following. The
company has 30 days after notiﬁcation
in which to request an advisory com-
mittee; the committee has an undesig—
natcd amount of time to get itself
chosen and assembled, but must report
to the commissioner within 60 days
after it is formed; the commissioner
could take 90 days to make up his
mind; the company can take 60 more
days to ﬁle objections and request a
public hearing: and the commissioner
could take another 90 days to make
the ﬁnal. binding. decision. Including
the time involved in gathering a com-
mittee together. the procedure may
easily take more than a year. By this
measure. SK & F did very well in get-
ting Parnate back on the market within
a few months.

But suppose the drug in question
were not Parnate~ which was partially
rehabilitated. but one of the several
other drugs withdrawn from the market
during the past few years whose repu-
tations could not withstand the scrutiny
of a committee. Suppose, to take an
extreme example. the manufacturer had
appealed FDA’s decision on thalido-
mide? What would be gained by leav-
ing a dangerous drug on the market
for a year while a committee deliber-
ated? If the drug were withdrawn
during the committee's study, the man-
ufacturer would be no better off than
he is now. If the investigation were
quietly handled and the drug rematned
on the market. the incidence of serlous
effects could be vastly multiplied.

Although it is a sensible principle of
government that private parties 8.110111d
be able to appeal the frequently moon-
Venient and sometimes arbitrary de-
cisions of the bureaucracy, there is 3150
a strong argument that in matters so
closely affecting public health the FDI:
should have the power to shoot ﬁrst an
ask Questions afterward. Drug safety
questions. seldom clear-cut, are 511?-
ceptible to endless obfuscation (rare 1
the drug without fervent Supportersu)’
and in practice the FDA is “5113.;
more dilatory than SWift. Whether 1

5
SCIENCE. VOL- 14

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

caution should be institutionalized is a
question deserving serious thought.

The proposal for a scientiﬁc court
of appeals raises other difficulties. Who
would serve on the committees? Im-
partial wisdom in drug evaluation is
very hard to come by. It is no insult
to the talented men who work in the
ﬁeld of pharmacology to point out that
there are very few of them—a fact
they themselves constantly bemoan.
The largest cadre of experts in the drug
ﬁeld work for the pharmaceutical in-
dustry. Should they be permitted to
serve on these committees? Should only
representatives of the company making
the appeal be disqualiﬁed? Surely com-
pany representatives should be heard
at such an appeal, but what would the
effect of the natural camaraderie of in-
dustry scientists be on the desired im-
partiality of the deliberations? Aca-
demic clinical pharmacologists are in
very short supply, and it is in the na-
ture of their work that their ties with
industry are often very close. The rea-
son is mutual dependence: drug com-
panies need their advice and service in
testing new drugs; the scientists fre-
quently need facilities and ﬁnancial aid
available only from a company whose
interests they share. What should their
role on the court of appeals be? The
problem of impartial advice is difﬁcult
in any ﬁeld—as members of the gov-
ernment’s grant-giving advisory panels
well know. But in the ﬁeld of drugs a
supposedly pure “scientiﬁc” dispute can
have terriﬁc economic consequences
for a manufacturer, and the problem of
obtaining unbiased advice may be a
crippling one. It is no secret that com-
mittees can be stacked, and it is some
measure of the distrust and confusion
apparently endemic to FDA-industry
relations that while the agency, and
some of its critics, worry about a com-
mittee being stacked in favor of a com-
Pa‘ny, the industry has professed some
worry that a committee would be
Stacked in favor of the agency.

Let NAS Do It

Faced with such sensitive dilemmas
involving science policy, there has been
an increasing tendency in recent years
to turn to the pristine National Acad-
emy of Sciences, in the hope that the

-Academy would either agree to arbi-

trate the dispute itself or else suggest
the members of an arbitrating commit-
tee. However, in a circumstance that
has the aura of an attempt to evade a
negative governmental decision, it is

10 JULY 1964

most unlikely that the Academy would
agree to do the job itself. And, for that
matter, although the Academy can
name people to serve on such a com-
mittee, it cannot create them. The man-
power problem remains.

Even if the mechanics of selection
could be worked out, the problem of
occasion remains. On this point it ap-
pears that industry’s views are not en-
tirely uniﬁed. A Vice-president of
Hoffman-La Roche, testifying at the
Fountain hearings, seemed to envision
a panel resolving very fundamental
disputes between FDA and industry
scientists. The example he gave was a
current disagreement about whether
adequate animal testing requires his-
tological examinations of the organs
of all animals used in a particular test
or just of those receiving the highest
dosages of a new drug. But most of
the proponents of a court of appeals
seem to envision .it resolving contro-
versies in which there is a more direct
relationship of economic to scientiﬁc
content. The position of PMA appears
to be that an appeal should be allowed
at any stage in which the FDA is em-
powered to turn down industry’s work,
either when approval is being sought
for the initiating of clinical trials, when
an application is submitted for permis-
sion to market a new drug, or when the
question of withdrawal arises.

The effect of this intervention on
the operation and morale of the Food
and Drug Administration has to be
considered, too. While admittedly the
agency has gone. through some bad
times and made some mistaken de—
cisions, it is not clear Why the best
way to reform it is to establish a
prestigious committee over its head.
One argument made in favor of the
industry proposal is that it would
bring the FDA into closer contact with
top authorities in a given ﬁeld. This is
certainly desirable. But the FDA,
somewhat belatedly, has already begun
to establish links with outside experts.
Last year it established a committee,
headed by Walter Modell of Cornell,
to advise the commissioner on general
policy; in addition, the Medical Bureau,
under its new director, Joseph Sadusk,
has recently begun to acquire outside
advisors to consult with it on a variety
of problems connected with its evalu-
ation of new drugs. The proposed court
of appeals, instead of functioning co-
operatively, would function only when
the FDA staff was accused of being
in error. While a decision of the sci-

 

entiﬁc panel would not be binding
legally, it could well be binding in-
tellectually. The fear of being over-
ruled by an outside panel, even if it
did not actually encourage buck-pass—
ing, could easily reduce the incentive
among much-harassed FDA staff
members for ﬁrm commitment to
agency decisions involving unpleasant
consequences to the industry.

In the last analysis it seems clear
that, although both the agency and
the agency—industry relationships are
in need of changes, the prOposed court
of appeals is not the change that is
needed. If the agency is as wary as
it ought to be, it will turn the proposal
down. And if the industry is as anxious
as it claims to promote safer drugs,
it will come up with some more rele-
vant suggestions.———ELIN0R LANGER

Meeting Notes

The American Institute of Biological
Sciences will hold its annual meeting
23-28 August at the University of
Colorado, Boulder. Information is
available from Gordon Alexander, De-
partment of Biology, University of
Colorado, Boulder, or from AIBS,
Room 508, 2000 P St., NW, Washing-
ton, D.C. The societies scheduled to
hold sessions in conjunction with the
AIBS meeting are listed in the Forth-
coming Events section, page 193.

Papers are being solicited for pres-
entation at a symposium on models for
the perception of speech and visual
form, scheduled 11—14 November.
The meeting will be sponsored by the
data sciences laboratory, Air Force
Cambridge Research Laboratories, and
will take place in Boston. Emphasis will
be placed on analysis of problems in
current models for the perception of
structured stimuli. Attendance at the
meeting will be limited to 350 persons.
Deadline for abstracts: 15 August. (G.
A. Cushman, Wentworth Institute, 550
Huntington Avenue, Boston, Mass.
02115)

The University of Washington, Se-
attle, will be the site of the fourth
western national meeting of the Amer—
ican Geophysical Union, 28—30 De-
cember. Papers are invited on all the
major areas of geophysical research.
Deadline for submitting abstracts: 9
October. (AGU, Suite 506, 1145 19th
Street, NW, Washington, DC. 20036)

141

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

BOOK REVIEWS

The Quest for Certainty:
Science Citation Index

Any real evaluation of Science Ci-
tation Index must be based on an ex-
tensive use test, and there has not
been time for that. Most of us are ac-
customed to literature searches that
begin with a subject. This, of course,
presents real problems if one wishes
complete coverage of the subject, be-
cause subject matter indexes are no
better than the choice of words in-
dexed. However, we are used to them
-—like an old shoe, they are comfort-
able.

Science Citation Index (vols. 1—5.
Prepared and published by the Insti-
tute for Scientiﬁc Information, Phila-
delphia, 1963. 2704 pp. $700) is
primarily a list of authors’ names, and
insofar as names can be identiﬁed with
subjects, a citation index search can be
thought of as having subject matter
content. A citation index on any sub-
ject has the advantage of being com-
plete within established boundaries.
Still to be tested by scientists is the
question of whether the virtue of com-
pleteness compensates, to the scientist,
for the work necessary to relate
authors’ names to scientiﬁc content.
A trial run which I conducted with
some graduate students resulted in a
split vote.

With these comments in mind, I
will “review” the ﬁrst set of the Index
as a novel and interesting example of
a device to cope with the scientiﬁc
literature explosion.

To form these ﬁrst volumes of the
Index, 613 journals (for 1961) were
selected, and a rather casual reading
indicates that it is a well-chosen list.
The senior author of each article be-
came a unit in a master source-article
index. Each senior author of each ref-
erence cited by source authors then
became a unit of the Science Citation

 

 

The reviewer is professor of zoology and
chairman of the department of zoology at the
University of Chicago; he served as chairman
of the Division of Biology and Agriculture of
the National Academy of Sciences—National Re-
search Council from 1958 to 1962.

142

H. Burr Steinbach

Index. By proper machine work one
then ends up with a list of 102.000
names with journal references, fol—
lowed in each case by the names 0f 'd“
who have cited the paper of which the
man was senior author and references
to the papers in which he was cited. It
is important to emphasize that the ref-
erences in the Index list are not lim-
ited to the “source year” (1961) since.
in most cases, the soarce articles cited
references from prior years. If a name
appeared as senior author in one of
the source journals in 196] or was
cited by a senior author in 1961. then
that name and reference appear in Sci-
ence Citation Index.

In use, the name of a senior author
is necessary to make a start. Given
that ingredient one can very quickly
assemble a list of names, with journal
references, of other senior authors who
have cited him, presumably for some
reason. Thus, as is pointed out re-
peatedly, the Index can be used to trace
citations forwards as well as back-
wards. As Garﬁeld (1) points out. this
forward-in-time method shows clearly
that Einstein’s diffusion equation has
had an inﬂuence on present day work
dealing with properties of particles in
solutions. Similarly, Aristotle has in-
ﬂuenced recent reviews in physiology.
It is perhaps less surprising that Aris-
tophanes inﬂuenced a recent author‘s
writing in the Eugenics Quarterly.

Reading about and trying to use the
Index has convinced me that it will be
of value and that all scientists should
Indeed. examine it and consider its po-
tentialtties. I cannot agree completely
With Garﬁeld’s (2) statements:
“Whether or not citation indexes are
useful is a question that has now been
answered. We have enough favorable
experience in using them to know that
they are both desirable and useful.”
This statement may be correct with
respect to its use by administrative per-
sonnel .and librarians; its usefulness in
advancmg the wisdom of science must

be judged in the ruture by scientists.

Soiem-e Citation Index has the great
advantage that. once conceived, its
formation is automatic with only rou-
tine intellectual input. Its usefulness in
advancing knowledge depends on the
user. This is good, and the value of
the system must be determined in prac-
tice. I know of no theoretical way to
predict whether the noise level of com.
plete Citation coverage will drOWn out
individual thought. l can see how the
Index could have been of great as-
sistance to Pliny the Elder, to Gesner,
and possibly to Lamarck. I ﬁnd it hard
to think that Newton, Lavoisier, or
Locwi would have used it. The Closer
one gets to encyclopedics or technology
the clearer are the uses of the Index.
On the other hand. the larger the basic
science contributions to understanding
the more remote the many voices of
the published literature become. On the
basis of having observed the use of sci-
entiﬁc literature by my scientiﬁc friends
over many years. I offer two axioms
that illustrate a personal bias on my
part. The importance. to a scientist, of
knowing the literature is (i) inversely
proportional to the size of the idea
(many people think of many small
things) but (ii) directly proportional
to the proximity to technology (find-
ing out someone else did something
saves time sometimes).

There is something wistfully com-
forting in the thottght of knowing all
facts. It is an old idea that, if the SCI-
entiﬁc facts are known. wisdom fOI'
lows. This idea has virtues which are
occasionally built into Utopias bllt
which are also treated less Sympathetl-
cally in Swift's l'uyage to Laputa. The
Utopian aspect is illustrated by one Of
Garﬁeld's citations (2) and by a noun
that he uses enthusiastically. Garﬁeld
characterizes ll'orld Brain by H- 6'
Wells (3) as "a magniﬁcent. if pI‘e;
mature. plea for the establishment 0t
a world information center.” I cantlo
share his enthusiasm. As the followmg

- felt that
Cluotatton shows. Wells clearly t
all the facts relating to many importzzt
problems were kicking around andt 'n
all one needed to do was Put them1
orderly array.

 

A World Encyclopaedia no longer nprgs
sents itself to'a modern imagmauo.
a row of volumes printed and p ._
Once for all. but as a sort of menta
ing house for the mind. a QCPO orted,
knowledge, and ideas are received. 5
summarized. digested. clariﬁed. an
Pared. It would constitute 16,1“
beginning of a true world bram-

145
scnasce, VOL-

 




 

 

As a biologist, I must shudder that
Wells left out such vital functions as
assimilation, excretion, and egestion,
but the description also smacks of an
authoritarian intellectual soup that is
not appealing to me. The impression
of ultimate relaxation into a sort of
ﬁnal truth is heightened by Garﬁeld’s
(2) statement that the “Science Cita-
tion Index is a harbinger of things to
come—a forerunner of the World
Brain” and by his devotion to the word
“nirvana.” Nirvana, of course, derives
from the Sanskrit word meaning “to
blow out.” Webster (4) lists the usage
of the word as “extinction of the ﬂame
of life,” “the dying out of the three-
fold ﬁre,” and “oblivion to care and
pain”—hardly an attractive prospect
for a creative scientist.

There are other faint auras of au-
thoritarianism in some discussions of
information handling systems. As Wells
puts it, “It is Science and not men of
Science that we want to enlighten and
animate our politics and rule the world”
(in World Brain). The report of the
President’s Science Advisory Commit-

tee (5) draws an analogy that illustrates .

the point.

Lawyers have used a citation index,
Shepard’s Citations, for more than 100
years. Each year Shepard’s lists all ap-
pellate decisions that have cited any pre-
vious cases. Since the law is uniﬁed in
somewhat the same way as is science in
that the rule of precedent connects what
happens later with what happened earlier,
it is not surprising that a bibliographic tool
so useful to the lawyer could also be useful
to the scientist.

My understanding is that a prece-
dent in law is an authoritative example,
a judicial decision, and I doubt that
most references cited in science would
be so regarded.

Properly speaking, the major use of
Science Citation Index would be to
contribute to science. However, the ad-
vertising blurb (6) “What is the Science
Citation Index” lists “other applica-
tions” that I wish I could sweep under
the rug, but they should be reported
in the interests of a complete discus-
sion and as examples of “uses,” many
of which will be easier to put into ef-
fect than retrieval of scientiﬁc informa-
tion. (The “other applications” are
quoted in full.)

Although the Science Citation Index
was originally designed to be used for
ample. direct retrieval of scientiﬁc in-
formation, it can facilitate utilization of
the literature for sociological and histori-
cal evaluations and applications including:

10 JULY 1964

The evaluation of the impact of a paper,
a man’s total works, a journal, material
published during speciﬁc time intervals,
the works of students of speciﬁc teachers,
works coming out of a university or de-
partment, work ﬁnancially sponsored by
a speciﬁc agency.

The Science Citation Index may be used
to good advantage in writing historical
reviews and descriptions of the evolution
of speciﬁc subjects.

It may be used to study journal utiliza-
tions, measuring literature habits of scien-
tists, effectiveness of speciﬁc journals in
reaching speciﬁc audiences, purchasing
requirements of speciﬁc libraries, library’s
need for maintaining ﬁles of most-fre-
quently requested reprints, utilization of
literature of one country by another, im-
pact of scientiﬁc discoveries and inventions
on technological development.

Misused, some of these “other ap-
plications” could cause some important
practical and political difﬁculties, tend-
ing to foster the idea that what has been
good in the past is best for the future.
(A high “impact factor” means more
support?) Garﬁeld (I), who I assume
is the author of these statements, dis—
cusses possible misuses of the Index.

Science Citation Index at the very
least provides an easy way of looking
at the complexity of modern scientiﬁc
literature in an orderly fashion. It
should facilitate a search for, and an
answer to, the question (7) “Is the litera-
ture worth keeping?” posed by John
Maddox:

By its meek acceptance of the ponderous
accumulation of the current literature, in-
deed, the scientiﬁc community has lent
support to the somewhat Freudian view
that scientists, collectively as well as sep-
arately, have come to regard this mountain
of printed paper as their primary prod-
uct. . . . Clearly, there is good reason for
asking that some institution, and pref-
erably one of the learned societies, should
take the lead in a search for vastly im-
proved methods of presenting scientiﬁc
information to a scientiﬁc readership. Cer-
tainly it is ingenuous almost to the point
of dishonesty that the scientiﬁc community
should so persistently badger the librar-
ians for more and more elaborate methods
of cataloguing the scientiﬁc literature. . . .

References and Notes

. E. Garﬁeld, Am. Documentation 14 (4); 289-
291 (1963).

, Science 144, 649 (1964).

. H. G. Wells, World Brain

Garden City, N.Y., 1938).

. Webster’s New International Dictionary, sec-
ond unabridged edition (Merriam, Spring-
ﬁeld, Mass., 1961). . .

5. A. M. Weinberg et al. (Pre31dent’s Scrence
Advisory Committee) Government and In-
formation (GPO, Washington, D.C., 1963).

6. What is the Science Citation Index? (Inst.
for Scientiﬁc Information, Philadelphia,
1964). .

7. J. Maddox, Bull. Atom. Seient. 19. (9), .14

(1963). I regret closing this discussmn With

a citation and quotation. Thinkmg about

H

 

(Doubleday,

Amp

citation indexes has put me in a citation
frame of mind, and, besides, Maddox says
things with a nice ﬂair. My use of citations
in this discussion represents a habit I de—
plore—that is, the use of citations to ex-
press opinions. This seems to me legalistic
and unjustiﬁed, and the presumption is that
repetition of opinion leads to certainty. Gar-
ﬁeld’s article in Science, cited above is a
case in point. Some SO-odd citations are
made, many of them expressing opinion, but
the largest single group comes from the
author of the source article or from his
associates. I suggest that this sort of reliance
on authority does not give proper recognition
to individual thinking—and after all the
thinking of an individual is a very important
component of the advancement of science.

 

Cabot Foundation Symposium

The Formation of Wood in Forest
Trees. A symposium. Martin H. Zim-
merman, Ed. Academic Press, New
York, 1964. vxi + 562 pp. Illus. $16.

The second Cabot Foundation Sym-
posium was held at the Harvard Forest
(Petersham, Massachusetts) in April
1963. The purpose of the symposium
was to bring together, for a few days
in a quiet and peaceful place, a small
but internationally constituted group of
invited scholars whose work has had
some bearing on anatomical, physiolog-
ical, or biochemical aspects of wood
formation.

This book is the record of proceed-
ings of that symposium. It includes 29
papers, as well as transcripts of the in-
teresting and enlightening open discus-
sions that followed presentation of the
papers. These discussions should assist
the reader in orienting his own think-
ing and in evaluating some of the ideas
presented.

The papers are grouped into sections
dealing with (i) the evolution, anatomy,
and activity of cambium and the
anatomy and ultrastructure of its deriv-
atives; (ii) the biochemistry of cambi-
al derivatives, including biosynthesis of
cellulose, lignin, and related compounds;
(iii) the translocation of photosynthate
to the cambium and the relation of
translocation, storage, and mobilization
of reserves to growth; and (iv) the in-
ternal and external control of wood for-
mation. This last section is the most
voluminous and includes discussion of
hormonal regulators, mechanical pres-
sure, water supply, and various light
and temperature conditions as possible
controlling factors. It, perhaps more
than the ﬁrst three sections, leaves one
with the impression that the vast mass
of available information is in continu-

143

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ing need of ordered analysis” and evalua-
tion.

Although its title might. suggest that
the book is of interest primarily to tree
physiologists, wood specialists, and for-
est botanists, it deserves a wider audi-
ence because of its broad approach and
the depth of its treatment of the specif-
ic subjects covered. General botanists,
plant anatomists, plant physiologists,
and plant biochemists should ﬁnd many
of the papers more readable and more
interesting than papers on similar sub-
jects in technical journals.

The book is well printed, bound, and
illustrated and has author and subject
indices. Many signiﬁcant literature ref-
erences, including those to papers men-
tioned in the discussions, are provided.
It seems unfortunate that the references
to papers generally lack titles and some-
times lack inclusive page numbers. Such
omissions are an annoyance to scholars
who do not have direct access to the
few great biological libraries. Complete
bibliographic information is a great aid
in deciding which works are worth bor-
rowing on interlibrary loan.

The editor and publisher deserve
praise for getting this well-produced
book, quite free of errors, into print
while the factual information and dis-
cussions that it contains are still rela-
tively fresh.

JOHN A. ROMBERGER
Forest Physiology Laboratory,
U.S. Department of Agriculture,
Beltsville, Maryland

Chemical Technology

Methods of Quantitative Inorganic
Analysis. An encyclopedia of gravi-
metric, titrimetric, and colorimetric
methods. Kazunobu Kodama. Inter-
science (Wiley), New York, 1963.
xiv + 507 pp. Illus. $22.

This book contains a comprehen-
sive summary, complete through 1957,
of published methods in the ﬁelds of
inorganic gravimetric, titrimetric, and
colorimetric analyses. The book is di-
vided into three parts. Part 1, General
Considerations (41 pages), contains
brief information of a general nature
on sampling, the solution of samples,
separations, and determinations; part 2
(56 pages) is devoted to organic rea-
gents used in inorganic analysis, classi-
ﬁed by their reactions. Part 3 consists
Of more than 300 pages in which are

144

outlined the determination of the ele-
ments, listed according to the classical
order used in Hillebrand and Lundell’s
book. Each element is considered ac-
cording to methods of attack, separa-
tion, and determination. The selection
of methods appears to be good, and ex-
tensive use is made of tables and ﬂow-
charts. Sufﬁcient information is given,
in most cases, to permit selection of
the method most suitable for a given
problem.

The method of presentation and the
good general index add to the useful-
ness of the book and the extensive in-
dex of organic reagents is especially
valuable. Some 4000 references make
this volume a virtual key to the litera-
ture of classical chemical analysis.

JOHN K. TAYLOR
Analytical Chemistry Division,
National Bureau of Standards

Mathematics

Fundamentals of Scientiﬁc Mathemat-
ics. George E. Owen. Harper, New
York, 1964 (© 1961, Johns Hopkins
Press, Baltimore, Md.). xii + 274
pp. Illus. Paper. $1.75.

Although this book is very attrac-
tive and most ambitious in its purpose,
it fails, on the whole, by trying to do
too much. Its ﬁve chapters cover the
topics of geometry and matrices, vec-
tor algebra, analytic geometry, func-
tions, and differential and integral cal-
culus. The audience is claimed to be
high school seniors and college un-
dergraduates, together with high school
teachers of mathematics and science;
few of them will have the background
or the patience to follow the con-
densed treatment of such a book as
this. It may serve as a review or as
a new viewpoint on old ideas for one
who knows most of the material, but
it will teach little. For example, there
are no exercises in the book, and who
ever heard of learning mathematics
without doing some? There should be
a special bow, however, to the attrac-
tiveness of the illustrations and their
general excellence. Only occasionally
are - they confusing or inappropriate
(examples to illustrate the comment
will be found on pp. 6, 7, 8, 11, 26,
and 29). The ﬁrst chapter is one of
the poorest; the quality improves in
the others, with the chapter on analyt-
ic geometry one of the best.

Mathematics is treated completely as
a tool, with little ev1dence of an un-
derstanding of. the logic of mathemat-
ics, its motivation, or its structure. This
IS a common failing with engineers,
but not so common with Physicists,
and it leads to a cookbook approach
to procedures which stress rules with.
out reasons (p. 21). Although there is
a great deal to be gained by using
physical and geometric introductions to
aid intuition, the clarity of the mathe-
matics often suffers. Another inﬂuence
of this mechanical approach to mathe-
matics is found in such careless state-
ments as the following: “Q is very close
to P” (p. 20). and in an apparent con-
fusion between the uses of approxi-
mate differentiation and integration and
the exact uses of these processes. It is
unusual to try to explain the approxi-
mate methods before explaining the ex-
act ones which they approximate.

There are mathematical deﬁciencies
and mistakes. The fuzziness of the
language sometimes gives the impres-
sion that the book has been translated
from a foreign language. Examples of
awkwardness are found in the intro-
duction of right and left handed co-
ordinate systems (pp. 12, 13); the gen-
eral discussion of coordinates (p. 16);
cylindrical and spherical coordinates
(p. 17); scalar multiplication (p. 65);
intervals (p. 167); and derivatives (p.
207). Simple mathematical ideas are
muddled—for example, the associative
law, the distributive law, and the law
of cosines (p. 68). Inexact eXpIeS-
sions creep in: the “length element”
(p. 18); and two vectors “form .a
plane” (p. 75). The idea of limit 18
poorly introduced (pp. 203, 207), and
the concept of function is hopelessly
out of date (p. 167). Basic words suc.h
as deﬁnition and proof, fundamental m
mathematics, are not properly used
(pp. 68, 219). Finally, a symptom,of
the lack of contact Of the authorWlth
mathematics is his misspelling 0f SUCh
common words as chord (spelled cord)
and paraboloid (spelled parabloid)- .

It is not clear what background ls
assumed for this book, or whether that
background is appropriate for thls type
of book. There are places where trlg-
onometry is assumed (pp. 19, 220)’
but also the summation notation (P-
28), determinants (pp. 33, 45), and the
POWer series expansions for trigonomet-
ric functions (pp. 20, 211).

Some terms are used before they
are explained in the book, 01' they are
not explained at all. Will Coriolis 30'

5
SCIENCE, VOL 14

 

 




 

 

 

celerations (p. 22) be understood? Vec-
tor sum is used on pages 23 and 35
and then deﬁned on page 64. Scalar
multiplication of matrices is used (pp.
32, 34) before it is formally intro-
duced. The coefﬁcients for quadratic
forms—Au, A12, and so on—are used
(p. 116) but never explained.

Motivation is sometimes missing. Ad-
vanced ideas are assumed and funda-
mental ones proved. Here are a num-
ber of examples: why is distance in-
variant on page 25; does one example
for transformation of coordinates suf-
ﬁce on page 26; why do the decimals
appear as they do on page 36; why is
the magnitude of the matrix not zero
on page 45; why is cT substituted for
T on page 52: why is the unit vector
dimensionless on page 66; and why
do the asymptotes of hyperbolas fol-
low from the discussion on page 119?

Without trying to spot all errors in
printing, I noted some on pages 10,
46, 49, 57, 176, and 182.

In the hands of a skillful teacher
this book could come to life and be
the basis for a fascinating course, but
it does not stand on its own feet. It
is too condensed to be useful and too
vague with respect to the audience it

expects and the background it as-
sumes.

HENRY W. SYER
Kent School,

Kent, Connecticut

Photosynthesis

Primary Processes in Photosynthesis.
Martin D. Kamen. Academic Press,
New York, 1963. xii + 183 pp. Illus.
$5.50.

The author has deﬁned his task as
that of writing a book which will in-
troduce both students and veteran re-
searchers to the newly developing stud—
ies of the fundamental physics and phys'
ical chemistry of the primary events
In photosynthesis. Following the course
of events initiated by the arrival of a
11ght quantum at the photosynthetic ap-
Paratus, he divides the subsequent proc-
esses into “eras”—the era of radia-
tlon Physics (10‘15 to 10‘9 second),
the era of photochemistry (10‘9 t0
10‘4 second), the era of biochemistry
(10“ to 10 second), and the era of
physiology and ecology (after 10 sec-

onds), His book is restricted to the
ﬁrst two eras.

10 JULY 1964

Those whose backgrounds are in biol-
ogy and biochemistry will ﬁnd this an
excellent guide to understanding the
importance, the language, the method-
ology, the instrumentation, and the
preliminary successes of the more phys-
ically oriented approaches to photobiol-
ogy. Among the topics covered are the
light absorption act itself, energy mi-
gration, lifetimes and quenching proc-
esses of excited states, charge transfer
processes, polarization of absorbed and
emitted light, resonance phenomena,
and difference spectroscopy. Wherever
possible, the physical concepts are dis-
cussed ﬁrst with reference to simple
monoelectronic, monatomic, or dia-
tomic systems, and the additional fea-
tures are sketched out for extending
studies to the macromolecular systems
of the living cell.

Those who approach photosynthesis
from the more physical disciplines will
ﬁnd in the book a balanced perspective
of the biological setting 0f the problem.
Bacterial and green plant photosyn-
theses are viewed as similar situations,
whose differences should be exploited
for the unraveling of some of the
complexities of the primary photochem-
ical events.

The problem of photosynthesis, as
deﬁned in the ﬁrst chapter, is to “pump
up” electrons from a region of high
electron aﬂ‘inity, water, to one of low
electron afﬁnity, a primary electron ac-
ceptor that mediates between the pig-
ments and the carbon dioxide to be as-
similated. Emphasis is placed on the
possible role played by important con-
stituents of the chloroplast and the
chromatophores, especially by the vari-
ous forms of chlorophyll, by the other
photosynthetic pigments, and by the
heme proteins. A thorough review is
given of the structural organization of
the photosynthetic apparatus. Special
attention is given to the experimental
and theoretical bases for energy migra-
tion and trapping at special reactive
sites and for charge separation within
pigment aggregates or within a pig-
ment-heme protein complex. The pos-
sible role of atom, as opposed to elec-
tron, transfer, in primary photochemi-
cal events has perhaps been underesti-
mated.

This book should help to bridge the
communication gap between the vari-
ous ﬁelds that are contributing to the
current activity in photosynthesis. Since
a reader who wants more detailed in-
formation may be directed to original
sources by the excellent bibliography,

the author may be forgiven for the oc-
casional use of the same term for two
different things, for some contradictory
descriptions of certain proposed
models, and for the errors introduced
in the attempt to simplify spectrosc0pic
concepts.

Kamen wisely did not attempt to
synthesize a complete picture of photo-
synthesis, noting that many important
problems are now in a very active stage
of research. In fact, very few references
are taken from publications after 1960.
He has given us an authoritative state-
ment of the current problems, a guide
to a critical evaluation of the growing
literature, and a renewed enthusiasm
for approaching photosynthesis as a
whole life process rather than as a
collection of isolated steps.

J. L. ROSENBERG
Department of Chemistry,
University of Pittsburgh

College Calculus

College Calculus with Analytic Geom-
etry. Murray H. Protter and
Charles B. Morrey, Jr. Addison-Wes-
ley, Reading, Mass., 1964. xiv +
897 pp. Illus. $11.50.

In the preface the authors make the
following statement: “This text, to-
gether with University Calculus by
Charles B. Morrey, Jr., is designed to
solve the problem described above.”
The problem is that of shifting stu-
dents between the regular course in
calculus and the honors course, after
perhaps a semester. Regardless of the
direction of the transfer, the student
is usually penalized by the incongru-
ence of content in the two courses.
After comparing the. content of these
companion texts, one must agree that
this disparity of content will not be a
problem if these texts are used. It is
also fair to say the texts are written
at sufﬁciently different levels of sophis-
tication to justify their use in courses
taught at such different levels as the
regular and the honors course. In Col-
lege Calculus the student is frequently
referred to University Calculus for
proofs of theorems stated without
proof or for more complete details of
proofs.

Otherwise College Calculus is largely
traditional in content and approach.
One noteworthy exception is the treat-
ment of the differential, which is in-

145

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

trodueed as a function of two vari-
ables. Deﬁnitions and theorems are
precisely stated, but no special knowl-
edge of sets or logic is needed. Vectors
are not treated as extensively, nor are
they subsequently used as extensively,
as in many other current texts. The
standard physical applications are in-
cluded, and there is an adequate sup-
ply of exercises with answers to the
odd numbered exercises. Figures, for
the most part, are good, except in the
chapter on multiple integration. Here a
good ﬁgure is admittedly difﬁcult to
produce but is desirable.

The text appears quite suitable for
the majority of students. The entire
book evidences careful attention to de-
tail by authors and publisher, and
there are very few of the printing er-
rors usually found in a ﬁrst printing.

ARNOLD WENDT
Department of Mathematics,
Western Illinois University, Macomb

History of Medicine

Andreas Vesalius of Brussels, 1514—
1564. C. D. O’Malley. University of
California Press, Berkeley, 1964. xvi
+ 480 pp. Illus. $10.

In the introduction to Illustrations
from the Works of Andreas Vesalius,
edited by J. E. de C. Saunders and
C. D. O’Malley, O’Malley set the task
for the biographer of the important
Renaissance anatomist—“The great
achievement of Vesalius has led to
strenuous efforts by historians to un-
cover and understand the forces re-
sponsible for the sudden emergence of
the modern observational method of
science in the midst of the Renaissance
cult of antiquity. For this reason every
aspect of his life and personality has
been examined with the utmost care.”
In this biographical volume, Andreas
Vesalius of Brussels, O’Malley has col-
lected the harvest of several genera-
tions of detailed historical investiga-
tions, and he presents a remarkably
lucid, yet convincingly documented
study of the work and life of one of
the ﬁgures who brought modern sci-
ence into being.

It has been more than 70 years since
a biographer attempted a study of Ve-
salius, and during the intervening pe-
riod scholars have made available much
new evidence concerning the early and
late years of his life as well as con-

146

temporary accounts of his practicecf
anatomical dissections; the printing
history of each of Vesalius’ works has
been detailed, and controversy has
raged over the credit for the impres-
sive anatomical plates in the De humani
corporis fabrica. These and many other
“Vesalian problems” have been scruti-
nized by the biographer and laid be-
fore the reader in this new biography,
which is published to coincide with the
400th anniversary of the death of An-
dreas Vesalius.

The question which we really want
answered, and to which O’Malley de-
votes the ﬁrst half of his analysis, con-
cerns the novelty in Vesalius‘ work
and how this innovation came about.
Vesalius” own words are used to de-
scribe the old approach—“‘ . . . that
detestable procedure by which usually
some conduct the dissection of the hu-
man body and others present the ac-
count of its parts, the latter like jack-
daws aloft in their high chair, with
egregious arrogance croaking things
they have never investigated but mere-
ly committed to memory from the
books of others, or read what has al—
ready been described ”’ (p. 50). This
image of the professor sitting at his
lecturn, at a considerable distance from
the cadaver, while an unlettered bar-
ber surgeon wielded the scalpel is in
marked contrast to the picture that
leaps at the reader from the title page
of the Fabrica of Vesalius (and which
is reproduced in part on the cover of
O’Malley’s biography)—in that illus-
tration Vesalius stands at the dissect-
ing table, his own hands on a body
with the abdomen laid open. The key
to the Vesalian achievement is found,
not so much in the numerous cor-
rections made in the anatomical de-
scriptions of Galen and the other an-
cients, but in what Vesalius considered

the reconstruction of the anatomical

practices of the golden age of Alex-
andria—“‘ . . . I, with Galen, have
encouraged the candidates of medicine
in every way to undertake dissection
with their own hands’ ” (p. 323).
O’Malley, in charting the steps taken
by Vesalius, begins with the medical
student who relied, as did all his con-
temporaries, on the anatomical knowl-
edge of Galen, but who slowly came to
realize, through his own dissections,
that Galen, “the prince of physicians,”
had never dissected a human body and
had constructed his human anatomy
on the basis of analogy to animal struc-
tures. In the course of correcting this

fundamental error, Vesalius made Clear
the necessity of relying Upon human
sources for human anatomy and inci-
dentally set oil a wave of body snatch-
ing and grave robbing among the med-
ical students (p. ll3). As a means of
illustration, Vesalius took the ﬁrst step
in establishing comparative anatomy by
reconstructing “two skeletons, an ape
and a human. the latter ‘articulated
from the bones ol. the French priest.’ ”
(p. 100).

Although Vesalius substituted accu-
rate anatomical descriptions for Galen’s
erroneous ones and instituted a new
pedagogy that imolved direct observa-
tion in the place of slavish adherence
to the Galenic te\ts. O’Malley correct-
ly notes that the Galenic physiology
remained virtuall_\ untouched (p. 167).
It is this factor that causes my one
criticism of an otherwise outstanding
volume: the early chapters are struc-
tured so that the reader comes to ex-
pect the total oxerthrow of the Galenic
approach to the study of the human
organism, but. as the author clearly
demonstrates, Vesalius provided only
one lever, which alone was not sufﬁ-
cient to tOppIe the Galenic system as
a whole. Vesalius. in the tradition of
both Aristotle and Galen, preserved a
teleological approach to the living or-

ganism, albeit structure became the
dominant feature (see pp. 150 and
151).

The ﬁnal half ot‘ the narrative is tak-
en up with a detailed reconstruction of
Vesalius' life after the publication of
the Fabrica (15.13), the year in which
he gave up his teaching post at Padua.
NO one will claim that these years of
imperial medical service were charac-
terized by anything like the creatmty
exhibited by the youthful Vesaliusln
the few years prior to the publicatlon
of his great anatomical volume.

O’Malley provides one other great
service to those interested in the de-
velopment of the sciences during the
Renaissance. Not only is his text ﬁlled
with quotation of relevant passages, he
has included more than 100 pages 0
translated texts, letters, and docu—
ments bearing on the scientiﬁc method
as well as on the life of Vesalius. 0
Particular interest is the series of 1“;
structions or “dissection procedureS
which make it quite clear that VesalIUS
intended his readers to follow 1115 ex-
ample as well as his word.

EVERETT MENDELSOHN
Committee on the History of Science,
Harvard University

5
SCIENCE, VOL- 14

 




 

 

Huxleyan Overview

Essays of a Humanist. Sir Julian Hux-
ley, Harper and Row, New York,
1964, 288 pp. $4.95.

Nineteen other books by Sir Julian
Huxley are listed opposite the title page
of this volume of essays. One ﬁnds
with astonishment that several have
been omitted, among them two—Prob-
lems of Relative Growth and Elements
of Experimental Embryology (with Sir
Gavin DeBeer)——that shaped the minds
of a whole generation of biologists
(and provided the plots for several of
Aldous Huxley's novels). Monographic
papers, even those superb ones that
helped to found the science of ethol-
ogy, are of course not considered
books. So the list of 19, now become
20, contains only popular books, and
evidently (since at least one Penguin
title is missing) only those published
in the United States. Not a small
achievement, one thinks, even for one
of the writing Huxleys. But Sir Julian’s
extraordinary productivity is a by-
product of his busy career, as re-
searcher, teacher, administrator, and
statesman. Can he maintain this literary
output, writing as he must on trains
and planes, and still have anything new
or interesting to say? ‘

The answer is that he can. Not
really new, maybe, but certainly in—
teresting. Several of these essays are
concerned with evolutionary human—
ism, a rational and optimistic religion
that deserves a less hackneyed title. It
is a characteristically Huxleyan form
of deism that Sir Julian developed
more systematically in the Gifford Lec-
tures. Like others of his family, he oc-
cuPies a pulpit as warily as Emerson
ever did, but the theology is neverthe-
less argued with cogency and skill, es-
pecially in the chapters dealing with
Its application to education and to
CUgenics. A curiously ambivalent atti-
tude toward theologians is most ap-
Parent in his introduction to Pere Teil-
hard’s Phenomenon of Man, which
Seems out of place in this context. It
Cannot have been an easy book for
anyone, least of all a deist, to intro-
duce, and perhaps the result is to be
read more as a tribute to the memory
0f fl great but tormented man with a
genius fer friendship than as an es-
Pousal of his phi1030phy. What is most
refreshing, and makes these essays very
(llfferent from sermons, is the recogni-
tlon that theology is a game, a non-

10 JULY 1964

zero-sum game at that, which is much
too important to be left to theologians.

There is much besides theology in
this book. In his youth, Sir Julian
was one of the most perceptive bird-
watchers of his time, and a lifetime
of committee work has not diminished
his stature as an ethologist. The essay
“Psychometabolism,” addressed origi-
nally to psychiatrists, displays the
breadth of his reading as well as his
own naturalist’s eye, and is by no
means the paraphrase of Lorenz and
Tinbergen that might have been ex-
pected. “Riches of wild Africa,” a
judicious and optimistic assessment of
a challenging ecological problem, man-
ages to avoid the cant of the profes-
sional preservationist while pleading
eloquently for Africa’s national parks.
“The Coto Doﬁana,” a delightful ac.-
count of birdwatching in the Spanish
Marismas, indicates that Europe, too,
still has wildlife worth preserving. Two
chapters treat of population problems,
one of them in the fresh perspective
provided by little-known French and
English predecessors of Malthus.

As a writer and as a scientist, Sir
Julian Huxley is incapable of dullness,
and his latest volume of essays is cor-
dially recommended.

EDWARD S. DEEVEY, JR.
Department of Biology,
Yale University

Academic Geography

Geography Now and Then. Some notes
on the history of academic geogra-
phy in the United States. William
Warntz. American Geographical So-
ciety, New York, 1964. xii + 162
pp. Illus. $4.

This lively and informative survey
of the episodic career of geography
in American universities and colleges
should interest geographers most, but
also some historians of science and
some administrators. The career of ge-
ography has been like a jack-in-the-box
in our Ivy League colleges—now you
see it, and now you don’t. Why?

Warntz surveys this problem histori-
cally. Geography held an exalted posi-
tion in the earliest colonial colleges; it
was relegated to the grammar schools
in the early days of the Republic; re-
vived in post-Civil War time, but
showed strong tendencies toward weak-
ening again around 1900; and survived

to go on to a period of explosive
growth everywhere except in the Ivy
League where it is still in decline.

Warntz’s analysis makes clear that
the colonial period of growth was when
geography was a systematic ﬁeld with
the globe as its object and mathematics
and astronomy its close allies. It was
reduced to primary school level when,
lacking any unifying theory, it degen-
erated into mere place geography. The
revival depended on a return to broader
outlooks, ﬁrst teleological and later
Darwinian determinist. After World
War I, crude environmental determin-
ism came under attack, and there was
a dangerous movement back toward
mere cataloging—the so-called region-
alist school so strongly developed in
the Middle Western colleges. This was
saved from aridity by its intense bent
toward practicality. After World War
11 there appeared a strong drive to-
ward systematic work. Cartography,
geomorphology, climatology, and plant
geography, all at one time almost ex-
tinct in academic geography depart-
ments, were strengthened, and some
departments (for example, at Johns
Hopkins) went frankly and fully into
systematic studies. Warntz’s own work
is strongly mathematical, and this rep-
resents a still later and presently very
strong current of development. There
are also persistent stirrings in the di-
rection of establishing the geography
of man on a nonteleological, non-
physical, deterministic, but on a strongly
cultural historical process base, that
may yet give unity to this part of the
ﬁeld.

Warntz’s little book, with its redis-
covery of the colonial cycle of college
geography and its interesting portrayal
of the background of rise and fall of
the subject, is bound to have a mighty
inﬂuence on American geography. It
should also interest many in other
ﬁelds.

GEORGE F. CARTER
Isaiah Bowman Department of
Geography, Johns Hopkins University

Pharmacology

Lipid Pharmacology. Rodolfo Paoletti,
Ed. Academic Press, New York,
1964. xiv + 538 pp. Illus. $17.50.

Lipid pharmacology has to do,
mainly, with"the effects of drugs on the
lipids of the body. Lipid metabolism is

147

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

sensitive to many agencies, environ-
mental and drug, but at the present the
keenest interest is in its connections with
the problem of atherosclerosis. Knowl-
edge of the effects of drugs on the lipids
has come particularly from workers
whose ultimate interest lies in the pos-
sible application to clinical disease.

The book contains 12 chapters, writ-
ten by authors from the United States
(8), England (4), and Italy (1). The
straightforward biochemistry of lipid
metabolism is reviewed in the ﬁrst
chapter, the basic factors of athero-
sclerosis in the second, and, in the
remaining chapters, the inﬂuences of
various types of chemical agents are
treated. Most of these are reviewed
in the third chapter where the ways
of interfering with cholesterol synthesis
are considered. The ideal point of in-
hibition is identiﬁed as being after
mevalonic acid (before would inter-
fere with too many other functions) and
before squalene (later intermediates
tend to be accumulated and may be
as undesirable as cholesterol itself).
In other chapters, detailed consideration
is given to the effects of steroids and
other hormones, nicotinic acid, heparin,
thyroid analogues, and a number of
other agencies.

The book, which should become a
classic in the ﬁeld, should be of much
interest to workers in both experimental
and practical medicine.

WINDSOR CUTTING
Paciﬁc Biomedical Research Center,
University of Hawaii, Honolulu

Cells and Organisms

Comparative Biochemistry. vol. 6, Cells
and Organisms. Marcel Florkin and
Howard S. Mason, Eds. Academic
Press, New York, 1964. xx + 561
pp. Illus. $20.

Volume 6 of Comparative Biochem-
istry is more homogeneous with respect
to subject matter than several of the
previously published volumes in the
series. All eight chapters of the sixth
volume are concerned with certain bio-
logical concepts that have a bearing
on the complexities of cells and or-
ganisms.

In “The biochemistry of morphogene-
sis” Barbara E. Wright discusses and
compares the processes of differentia-
tion of germinating and sporulating bac-

148

teria, sporulation of cellular slime molds,
germination of seed, development Of
the sea urchin, and differentiation of
amphibians. She places emphasis on the
basic problem of biochemical embryol-
ogy, that is, the mechanisms thatexert
a differential effect on the enzymatic po-
tentialities of the cells in the develoP‘
ing organism. This clearly written chap-
ter offers some fascinating new Vistas
and perspectives in this young disci-
pline.

A. C. Wilson and A. B. Pardee ex-
amine some of the mechanisms that
control reaction rates in the living cell
in order to meet the biological needs
of the organism. Three of these mech-
anisms—control of enzyme activity,
control of enzyme formation, and ac-
tivation of enzymes—are discussed.
Of necessity the chapter is essentially
a survey of these control mechanisms
of as many taxonomic groups and cell
types as possible, because too little is
known about the details of the mech—
anisms, or about their distribution, to
warrant drawing many conclusions of
a comparative biochemical nature.

E. Beerstecher, Jr., has written an
excellent and exhaustive review of the
biochemical evolution and intimate de-
tails of metabolic processes. His chap-
ter is an exciting exercise in compara-
tive biochemistry.

Two chapters, “Biochemistry of in-
sect metamorphosis” (P. Karlson and
C. E. Sekeris) and “Hormones in in-
vertebrates” (M. Gabe, P. Karlson, and
J. Roche), are concerned with biochemi-
cal changes brought about by very spe-
cialized hormones in animals that have
evolved away from the main branch
of evolution. Both chapters suffer from
a paucity of knowledge in these ﬁelds,
which makes a truly comparative study,
either physiological or biochemical, of
these phenomena quite premature. It is
to the credit of the authors that they
have placed emphasis on posing prob-
lems, rather than on trying to resolve
them. Some very intriguing speculations
on the possibility of interaction of hor-
mones with DNA are made in the chap-
ter by Karlson and Sekeris.

The review by R. Archer, “Protein
hormones in vertebrates,” is a truly
comparative study of three groups of
protein hormones—the neurohypophy_
seal hormones, the melanocorticotropic
hormones, and the insulins. This chap-
ter, a gem of clarity, raises some fas-
c1nat1ng questions. Does the primitive
organ or cell synthesize only a single

representative of the regulating hor-4
mone? Will later reduplication of the
gene involve the synthesis of the pep-
tide or protein whose synthesis it con-
trols? New avenues of research in this
ﬁeld are suggested.

H. J. Vonk presents an exhaustive
and thorough review of the compara_
tive biochemistry of digestive mech-
anisms.

The comparative distribution and ac-
tivity of detoxiﬁcation mechanisms in
different species. especially important
topics in view of the many contro-
versies raised by Rachel Carson’s Silent
Spring, are discussed by J. N. Smith
in the last chapter of this volume.

This volume. with the exception of
a supplementary volume, concludes the
treatise. It would have been appropriate
to conclude with a volume, or even a
chapter or two. summarizing our pres-
ent concepts of comparative biochemis-
try. Such chapters could well have
been written by two of the true pio-
neers in the ﬁeld—C. B. van Niel and
E. Baldwin.

1 question the wisdom of publishing
such an extensive compilation of re-
views. on so many divergent subjects,
under the comprehensive title Compar-
ative Biochemistrv. The resolution of
this question probably depends on what
one considers comparative biochemis-
try to be a comparison of all the
various chemical processes throughout
the living world. or an imaginative and
inspiring synthesis of the concept of
unity in the biochemical world as we
know it today.

W. J. VAN WAGTENDONK
Veterans Administration Hospital and
Department of Biochemistry,
University of Miami Medical School,
Coral Gables. Florida

 

New Books

Mathematics, Physical Sciences,
and Engineering

Advances in Cryogenic Engineering.
vol. 9. Proceedings of a conference
(Boulder. Colo.). August 1963. K.
Timmerhaus. Ed. Plenum Press,
York. 1964. 592 pp. Illus. $17.50.

Advances in Electronic Circuit Pack-
aging, vol. 4. Proceedings of the 1:011rt
International Symposium (Boulder,
Colo). August 1963. Michael A. Ma:-
rese, Ed. Plenum Press, New York, 196 '
496 pp. Illus. $17.50.

(Continued on page 208)
SCIENCE. VOL. 145

New

 




 

Reports

Reaction of Hydrogen with Oxygen Adsorbed on a

Platinum Catalyst

Abstract. The release of hydrogen atoms by a platinum surface in contact
with molecular hydrogen occurs if there is oxygen in the system. In particular,
it is sufﬁcient that the oxygen be adsorbed at the surface of the metal.

Khoobiar has reported recently (I)
that tungsten oxide, W03, could be
tUrned blue by passing hydrogen at
room temperature over the oxide mixed
with a catalyst consisting of platinum
supported on alumina. Although hy-
drogen atoms are known to react with
W03 to form tungsten blue (2), the
origin of the hydrogen atoms in the
experiment of Khoobiar is not clear.

One possibility is that hydrogen
atoms leave the platinum surface of the
catalyst. Such an explanation was re-
jected by Taylor (3) in a critical survey
of work done in the twenties which re-
sembles the work of Khoobiar in many
respects. Taylor concluded that oxygen
was essential to the release of hydro-
gen atoms by a platinum surface. He
pr0posed a reaction between adsorbed
oxygen atoms 0.. and molecular hydro-
gen to yield adsorbed hydroxyl (OH)a
and free hydrogen atoms:

0.. + H2-—> (0H). + H 2 (1)
This may be followed by:

(OH)... + H2 -—> H20 + H 2' (2)

The work of Martin and Rummel
(4) supports Taylor’s conclusions. Us-
ing a mass-spectrograph, they looked
1n vain for hydrogen atoms on the
vacuum side of a palladium membrane
through which Hg was diffusing. Yet,
they were able to detect other free radi-
cals leaving the surface after reaction
With adsorbed hydrogen. These results
prompt us to publish some very simple
experiments designed to elucidate the
CXperiment of Khoobiar.

First, as postulated by Taylor, oxygen
appears to be a necessary coreactant

10 JULY 1964

in this experiment. To show how oxy-
gen participates in the reaction, we
made a glass reaction tube (100 cm3
capacity) with stopcocks at both ends,
40 cm apart. At one end, we placed
50 mg of platinum-alumina catalyst
similar to that used by Khoobiar (5).
At the other end, we placed 50 mg of
W03 prepared by heating at 300°C
tungstic acid reagent powder (from
Matheson, Coleman and Bell). The
catalyst was then reduced for 2 hours
at 360°C in hydrogen ﬂowing directly
from the tank, while the tungsten oxide
remained at room temperature. The
stOpcocks were then closed, and the
tube was cooled to room temperature.
The catalyst and tungsten oxide were
then mixed by shaking the reaction
tube, and the mixture was allowed to
stand in hydrogen for about 72 hours.
No visible reaction occurred. Now a
second stopcock was sealed onto one
of the others, creating an interspace
or “doser” 1.4 cm3 in volume. Over the
course of several hours, ﬁve doses of
air were allowed to diffuse into the hy-
drogen in the tube. One could see the
tungsten oxide layer gradually turn blue
from the top down as the air diffused
into it (6). _
Second, the blue reaction is im-
mediate and reversible at room tem-
perature. If one places a mixture of
well-reduced catalyst and tungsten oxide
in a thin layer at the bottom of a long
tube (1/2 cm in diameter), and then
passes hydrogen over it (ﬂow rate, 50
cms/ min), one can watch the advancing
blue front in the tungsten oxide as hy-
drogen replaces the air. After the hy-
drogen ﬂow is stopped, the mixture

will revert to its original grayish yellow
color as the air diffuses back.

Third, although oxygen is necessary
for the blue reaction, oxygen adsorbed
on the catalyst is quite suﬂicient to
cause it. To demonstrate this, a sample
of catalyst was reduced in hydrogen,
then exposed to the air and mixed with
the W03 powder. A sample (0.1 g) of
the mixture was placed in a glass tube
and a stream of nitrogen (80 cm3/ min)
was passed over it for 15 minutes.
Then a stream of hydrogen (25 cm3/
min) was added to the nitrogen stream.
The powder was tho-roughly blue in
half a minute. After this time, the hy-
drogen ﬂow was shut off and the nitro-
gen ﬂow was continued for 25
minutes. Since no Visible bleaching of
the blue color occurred during this time,
we assume that the blue reaction was
due to adsorbed oxygen and not to
impurities in the gas stream which
somehow escaped a gas puriﬁer con-
sisting of a sample of reduced platinum
catalyst. We conclude that reactions of
adsorbed oxygen will explain the ex-
periment of Khoobiar.

It must be noted that the reaction:

Cu + H2 ---9 H20 (3)

has been studied calorimetrically (7).
The heat released is. 42 kcal/ mole.
Therefore, since the dissociation energy
of H2 is 104.2 kcal, the following re-
action is endothermic to the extent of
only (104/2) — 42 = 10 kcal:

Oa+-3H2-9 H2O+H/
2 (4)
While the release of hydrogen atoms
does not, of course, occur directly by
the overall reaction depicted in Eq. 4,
the thermodynamic argument helps in
understanding why the production of
hydrogen atoms is only slightly endo-
thermic and therefore possible at room
temperature. In other words, the ther-
modynamically unfavorable release of
hydrogen atoms is coupled (8) to the
thermodynamically favorable formation
of water.
HAROLD W. KOHN
MICHEL BOUDART
Department of Chemical Engineering,
University of California, Berkeley 94720

References and Notes

1. S. Khoobiar, J. Phys. Chem. 68, 411 (1964).

2. H. W. Melville and J. C. Robb, Proc. Roy.
Soc. London Ser A 196, 445 (1949).

3. H. S. Taylor, Chem. Rev. 9, 1 (1931).

4. T. W. Martin and R. E. Rummel, Science
143, 797 (1964).

5. We thank Dr. J. Sinfelt (Esso Research and
Engineering Company) for sending us samples
of catalyst similar to those used by Khoobiar.

149

     
    
  

..__“"4““~ :4. .'~——————s—i , ;_,:—‘-:l.r——————A.. ““:“:,.1

,.

.———?——_ _, , A

    
 

_: 5;: “.r A. U ‘




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

6. A much more dramatic demonstration can
be done by snapping one of the stopcocks,
and watching the tungsten oxide turn blue
during the resultant explosion. However the
heat generated by the hydrogen-oxygen re—
action might be an interfering factor.

7. H. Chon, R. A. Fisher, E. Tomeszko, J. G.
Alston, Actes 29 Congr. Intern. Catalyse Paris,
1960 (Technip, Paris, 1960), vol. 1, p. 217.

S. I. Prigogine and R. Defay, Chemical Thermo-
dynamics, D. H. Everett, trans. (Longmans,
London, 1954), p. 42.

9. This work was carried out while one of us
(H.W.K.) was on a leave from Oak Ridge
National Laboratory. Partial support by NSF
grant GP 2305 is gratefully acknowledged.

30 March 1964

Flowage Differentiation

Abstract. Flowage differentiation is
an experimentally demonstrable process
capable of causing crystal and chemical
fractionation in nature. It is a mech-
anism for forming olivine—rich rocks
in a vertical or steeply dipping position
without prior concentration on a ﬂat
floor. It explains the ﬁeld observation
that the chilled margin of a maﬁc in-
trusion may not be a representative
sample of the average composition of
the parent magma. In contrast to pre-
vious hypotheses of origin for compos-
ite dikes, it causes fractionation during
and as a result of a single movement
of magma rather than by multiple in-
jections.

The concept of ﬂowage differentia—
tion in the form described in this report
is new to petrologic thought. In a ﬂow-
ing magma with solid and ﬂuid phases,
the solids can segregate to form min-
eral accumulates because of the in-
herent ﬂow properties of the mixture.
Segregation takes place away from the
walls and toward the central axis of a
conduit. The mechanism may be one
of the processes which cause magmas
to separate into diverse rock types and,
in certain circumstances, may be more
important than gravity, convection cur-
rents, or other processes in forming
monomineralic concentrations. In addi-
tion to mechanical concentration of
minerals, the process may produce
chemical or cryptic zoning among the
minerals themselves. Thus, early-formed
olivine with a higher Mg/ Fe ratio may
be concentrated closer to the conduit
axis than later-formed olivine with a
lower Mg/Fe ratio. The feeder dike
to the Muskox Intrusion which we
describe here is a geological example.
The picritic dikes of Skye (Bowen’s
“peridotite” dikes) recently described
by Drever and Johnston (1) exhibit

150

similar features. The process may also
explain concentric zoning in ultra—
maﬁc-gabbro intrusions.

The Muskox Intrusion is a Precam-
brian (1175 million years) layered ul-
tramaﬁc-maﬁc pluton situated in the
Northwest Territories of Canada, cross-
ing the Arctic Circle near 115°W lon-
gitude (2). It crops out for 74 miles
(119 km) along a northwesterly trend.
In cross—section the intrusion COHSlStS
of a feeder dike connected to an over-
lying funnel—shaped body (Fig. l)- The
latter part contains gently dipping lay-
ers of dunite, peridotite, pyroxenite,
gabbro, and granophyre. In this report
we discuss the feeder dike alone.

The feeder dike crops out for 37
miles, and ranges from 150 m to 550 m
in width. It is nearly vertical and has
sharply deﬁned, chilled contacts with
the surrounding Precambrian rocks
(1765 million years and older). At its
northern end it is connected to. and
plunges under, the main body of the
intrusion.

There are two types of rock, picrite
(olivine-rich) and norite (olivine-poor,
hypersthene gabbro), forming vertical
zones parallel to the walls of the dike.
Picrite may be considered as a norite
plus 20 to 40 percent olivine. The mar-
gins of the dike are always formed of
norite, while picrite is conﬁned to the
central third; picrite forms discontinuous
lenses which are more continuous nearer
the main body of the intrusion. In this
latter area a third norite zone divides
the medial picrite into two parts. Con-
tacts between norite and picrite are
sharp to transitional within a meter.

Mineralogical zoning in the dike has
been described by Zwartkruis and Smith
(3). The principal minerals are olivine
(13059-13079), orthopyroxene (Em-Ens),
clinopyroxene (MgauFeetCain-Mngeii
C340), and plagioclase (Anlﬁ'Anﬁ). The
minerals indicate symmetrical zoning
in the dike in the following ways. (i)
Olivine increases in grain size, abun-
_ dance, and Mg/Fe ratio from the dike
margins toward the center. (ii) Plagio-
clase decreases in abundance, and in-
creases in grain size, An-content. and
degree of order from the margins to-
ward the center. (iii) Pyroxenes increase
in Mg/ Fe toward the center.

There are three features of the
dike indicative of its mode of origin.
First, it is zoned parallel to vertical
walls. Thus an origin by gravitative
differentiation does not apply. Second-
1y, there are no chilled contacts be-
tween zones, only against the country

 

\ SER E_$ __
MtleS (
o I 2 FEEDER (olivinejrich
L—l—J---J portion tn block)

I. GSC
Fig. l. Generalized section across Muskox
Intrusion showing location of feeder dike
and position of olivine-rich (picrite) zones
within it.

rocks. Thus, an origin by successive
injection of magmas of notably dif-
ferent age does not apply. Thirdly,
there is a mineralogical symmetry to
the rocks of the feeder which precludes
random injection of separate norite and
picrite magmas. even at high tempera-
tures. The problem, then, is to explain
how the ﬁrst-crystallized, high-tempera-
ture minerals (such as olivine) in a
magma can occur in the center of a
vertical conduit. in the last part solidi-
ﬁed completely. rather than along the
conduit walls. In view of the inade-
quacy .of current geological hypotheses,
we devised experiments to test the
possibility that the process responsible
is analogous to ﬂow phenomena ob-
served in the transport of solid-ﬂuid
mixtures in certain industrial processes.
Concentration of solid fractions toward

3'

r

I

..

"r
[L1

'1‘
:1/

' '\\L\' \~’\\ "\ l\\ :\\“\ \" t

 

ff} /‘.~’ 7/ / 17/ 317,71" ’4

x. , , v; \\ o, '0, \\ 03mm
.. v, ,\\\ . \p,

. ix
\Z\'I

\

_‘_ is: i -.~'..,.,~v. is . vet:

9’ ‘.
v?
/
f. .
/
f.
/
r
/l
,a
/
I
x.
y.
,
.4
{4‘
.
/
.z
/
.z
/.
z
x
C
.
f .
g
C
D
r“
/
.2
,.
/
I.
,1
x
f
I.
,3!
r“ -
4
f
/'
'9‘
if
. ;>

 

 

\-" \‘» \‘s\". O, '\\ "t \‘. ‘0. ‘- \ ‘«\ "\
1"

il ,1 All‘/ “’11. I/ ‘,/~ ‘,

 

 

 

 

 

 

\"\\. 1". "i. \‘k \‘1 '\\ ‘\\ "t \‘2 \ "l \\: "\\ ‘-. \- X“ h \‘3 '
<35

"\ ' \‘~, '\ '« "\\- "x '1 "\
,‘./, lh/i/i I

A

Fig_ 2. Inward displacement of solid .par-
ticles during vertical ﬂow of ﬂuid m a
rectangular lucite conduit. The solid par-
ticles are Paraplex plastic. 0.053 to 0»0
mm in size, and the ﬂuid is Shell motor
oil SAE 20. Downward movement. 9
solids in oil along margin of condu1t 15
shown in A. Incipient inward dlsplace'
ment of solids as oil is forced up the
conduit from below is shown in B oni
tinned migration of solids into centra
axis of conduit is shown in C. Average
ﬂuid velocity is 2 cm sec“.

SCIENCE, VOL- 145

 

 




 

 

 

the center of a pipeline or conduit
has been described for pulp ﬁbers in
water by Forgacs et al.; Baines (4),
blood corpuscles in capillaries by
Poiseuille and many others (5); pump-
ing coal slurry up vertical shafts by
Condolios et al. (6). Baragar (7) has
applied the concept of plug ﬂow as
observed in the transport of pulp ﬁbers
to explain the absence of plagioclase
phenocrysts in the margins of certain
sills in Labrador.

To study the process of ﬂowage
differentiation and its possible action
during the movement of basaltic mag-
ma, scale models were developed in
which solid-ﬂuid mixtures were used.
The fundamental units of measurement,
mass, length, time, may be transformed
into the prOperties of interest, namely
length, density, viscosity, and velocity.
These properties were scaled accord-
ing to methods proposed by Hubbert
(8). They were not amenable to ab-
solute scaling since viscosity and ve-
locity vary greatly in nature during
intrusion. The scaled properties of the
feeder dike are summarized in Table
1.

The dike width was the signiﬁcant
linear dimension and it was scaled
directly to a convenient model size. A
number of oils (Shell motor oil, SAE
10, 20, and 30: coconut oil; turpen-
tine) can be used in such a model, and
the choice of an oil ﬁxes the density
ratio scale. The important considera-
tion in scaling density is to maintain
the relative densities of solids and ﬂuids
in the model, so as to reproduce the
conditions for crystal settling often
observed in nature. Lucite, paraplex
plastic, wood charcoal, and bakelite, in
some instances dyed with different color
pigments, can be used to simulate
crystals of different density, size and
Shape. The particle size should be
scaled by the same ratio as the dike
width, but in practice this produces an
Inconveniently small size. In our ex-
periments, powders were ground to
—270 to ~400 mesh and the resultant
scale ratio is given in Table 1.

Hubbert (8) pointed out that. for a
geometrically similar ﬂuid model, dy-
namic similarity is ensured when the
ReYnold’s number of the model and
the original body are the same. Since
the length and density ratios had been
Selected, the viscosity and velocity ra-
tlos had to be related according to
W 1 L X D X v
ReYnold’s No. of original _ — V
10 JULY 1964

 

Table 1. Properties of the Muskox feeder dike and scale model.

 

Muskox feeder dike

Experimental model

Model ratio

 

Width or diameter (average)

700 ft (2.13 x 104 cm) 2.54 cm 1.2 X 10"4
Density of magma
2.65 . 0.899 (Motor oil) 0.335
(SAE 20)
Density of the crystals or solids
3.50 (F075) 1.175 (Red Lucite)
3.52 (F070—71) 1.180 (Red Lucite)
3.58 (F067—68) 1.200 (Paraplex plastic) 0.335

Size

1.5 mm (olivine)

S 0.037 mm to 0.053 mm

S 2.46 to 3.53 X 10‘2

Shape

Round or oval

Round or oval

Dynamic viscosity (poises)

3 X 103 to 4.35 X 102 1.470(25°C) to' 0.213(65°C) 0.49 X 10-3
Velocity
% 3 to 15 m hr"1 1 to 5 cm sec*1 12.189
Reynold’s No.
Same as model 1.5 to 53 (oil) 1

10'3 to 10'2 (particles)

 

where L is the length ratio, D the
density ratio, v the velocity ratio, and
V the viscosity ratio; or,

V 1.2 x 10—4 x 0.335 x v

2 0.402 x 10-4 x v.

The viscosity of oils used in various
experiments was measured at different
temperatures by the standard A.S.T.M.
(9) method. The corresponding magma
viscosity may have a wide range of
values during movement from the
mantle to the earth’s surface. Mac-
Donald (10) reports that the viscosity
of Hawaiian basaltic lavas near hot
volcanic vents is 2 to 4 X 103 poises,
averaging 3 X 103 poises. Hence, in
one quasi-scale model (Table 1) a vis-
cosity scaling ratio of 0.49 X 10‘3 is
obtained by assuming that a model
viscosity (1.47 poises) corresponds to
a magma viscosity of 3 X 103 poises.
The measured model viscosities were
made on oil without solids; addition of
solids in the model increases the vis-
cosity of the mixture. The viscosity
scaling factor can be considered only
in terms of orders of magnitude rather
than absolute values.

The choice of viscosity ratio ﬁxes
the velocity ratio as 12.189, according
to the restrictions of equality of Rey-
nold’s number cited previously. Thus
a model velocity of 1 cm sec"1 will
correspond to a magma velocity of
approximately 3 m/ hour. This value
cannot be considered deﬁnitive, smce
magma velocities may range from very
low values to several kilometers per

hour. In the model it was observed
that segregation effects were obtained
over a wide range of velocities, from
those necessary to overcome crystal
settling to those which produce tur—
bulence.

The velocities used in the model
exceeded the settling velocities of par—
ticles and were directed in a vertical
direction. Thus the effect of gravity
could be ignored and the dimensional
model could be considered a special
case (8) in which time was an in-
dependent variable. The velocity-gra-
dient proﬁles indicated that the ﬂow
characteristic was laminar. The ﬂuid
behavior is Newtonian; however, at
high concentrations the solid-ﬂuid mix-
tures are non-Newtonian.

Models were constructed in which
both tubing and parallel plates made of
lucite plastic were used. The parallel
plate apparatus and tubing had inner
walls 2.54 cm apart. Water jackets
were used to control the temperature
and observe the inﬂuence of changes
in viscosity. The ﬂowage of solid-ﬂuid
mixtures was in a vertical direction,
propelled by a hand-operated piston.

Experiments were conducted under
various conditions of shear gradients,
different sizes, shapes, density, and
concentrations of particles being used.
In early experiments the process of
segregation of solid and ﬂuid particles
in a vertical conduit under various
conditions of laminar ﬂow and settling
was studied. Later, geometrically simi-
lar structures were simulated and the

151

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ﬂow of mixtures was studied under
conditions of changing lateral and ver-
tical thermal gradients, pinching and
swelling of the conduit, obstructions in
the path of ﬂow, turbulence, and pulsat-
ing conditions of ﬂowage. The pertinent
observations we made may be sum-
marized as follows.

1) In laminar ﬂow the solid par-
ticles separate. from the walls and
gradually increase. in concentration
toward the center, as solid-ﬂuid mix-
tures are pushed upward in the con-
duit (Fig. 2, B and C).

2) Spherical and rod-shaped par-
ticles rotate as they move from the
walls toward the center.

3) The rate of concentration to-
ward the center increases with increased
velocity or shear gradient. Thus con-
strictions in the conduit accelerate the
process.

4) For equivalent shapes, the rate
of inward movement of solids increases
with the particle size. Similar obser-

 

Fig. 3. Concentration of solid particles
along axis of vertical tube during ﬂow.
Column A represents the start of the ex-
periment; solids are settling toward the
piston at the bottom of the tube; B shows
the central ﬁlament as the mixture moves
up the tube at initial average velocity of
2 mm sec‘l; in C, the experiment has been
stopped for 2 minutes and the ﬁlament is
breaking up due to settling; D shows re-
newed convergence of the ﬁlament as the
mixture moves up tube at an average
rate of 5 mm sec‘l.

152

vations on the effect of particle size in
suspensions have been made by Vand
(11), Maude and Whitmore (12), and
Karnis et al. (13).

5) Pulsating ﬂow conditions may
cause the central ﬁlament of particles
to break up (Fig. 3C). (This will occur
when gravity or thermal convection
forces exceed the ﬂow velocity.) In-
creased rate of ﬂow will again cause
a central ﬁlament to form (Fig. 3D).

A rearrangement of particles in the
parabolic ﬁeld of ﬂow has been noted
by a number of observers. Starkey ( I 4)
observed the concentration of rigid
particles in the central region of a tube
during ﬂow of an originally homoge-
neous ﬂuid mixture containing sus-
pended solids, and proposed a theory
to explain his observations. Vejlens (15)
observed that a rigid sphere released
near the wall moved away from the
wall and that this effect increased
rapidly with increased particle size.
Karnis et al. (13) found that rigid par-
ticles with very low Reynold’s number
(< 10'“) moved near the tube center
in viscoelastic ﬂuids.

The mechanical principles of segrega-
tion of solid particles are not thorough-
ly understood. The wall effect (1], 12)
due to the mechanical interactions of
particles and rigid walls, the Magnus
effect (16) arising from a combination
of rotatory and translatory motion of
a particle relative to the undisturbed
ﬂow of the ﬂuid, and the criterion of
minimum energy dissipation (17) are
considered the best explanations of
particle segregation from the walls and
movement toward the center. If the
formalism of the Magnus effect is
adopted it can be shown that a lateral
force is developed on the particles, di-
rected inward toward the central axis
of the conduit: this centripetal lateral
force can be calculated from the Kutta-
Joukowski formula (16, 18).

In general, the forces acting on solid
particles participative in the ﬂow of
an inhomogeneous ﬂuid consist of
three components: a component due
to differential translatory motion of
adjacent parts of the ﬂuid phase: a
component due to differential transla-
tory motion of solids relative to ﬂuid;
and a component due to rotation of the
solid particles. The effect of the second
component is small compared with
the other two, except at fairly high
concentration (14). In the ﬂow mech-
anism under consideration, then, trans-
lation of the ﬂuid takes place together
with the simultaneous translation and

rotation of the solid particles within it.
It can be shown (19) that a spherical
particle carried along in a nonuniform
velocity gradient is subjected to a shear
couple and a longitudinal force acting
in the direction of streaming. This
causes rotation in addition to transla-
tion along the direction of ﬂow (Fig.
4). It is these components of transla-
tion, acting in conjunction with the
rotation, that give rise to lateral com-
ponents of translation. The existence of
a lateral component of translation nor-
mal to the ﬂow direction leads to the
conclusion that when a solid-ﬂuid mix-
ture ﬂows through a conduit (that is,
when magma carrying suspended or
settling crystals ﬂows through a frac-
ture) there will be a continuous motion
of solids toward the center. As the
concentration of particles increases a
column of solids with immobilized ﬂuid
develops. The mean free path in the
ﬂowing ﬂuid increases and the concen-

‘ \‘

Solid particle

/ / Velocity gradient \\
profne L

 

Shearing stress

profne

 

 

Fig. 4. Schematic diagram ShOWing°t£2
nature of forces acting on solld partIC

. . . s’
in laminar ﬂow of a ﬂurd at variable rate

. . t;
of shear. T.., longitudinal force componfﬁlg
Le, lateral force component; T, Sheaent
stress component; U, Veloc1ty compo“

SCIENCE, VOL 145

-n- M

§¢




(4‘21:

n.~

M
rye:

tration process is further facilitated.

It has been demonstrated in the
ﬁeld that a segregation of early-formed
olivine crystals occurs in the center of
the Muskox dike, and by studying the
model we have found that this is an
expected condition during ﬂowage of
a solid-ﬂuid mixture. The geological
signiﬁcance of the process remains to
be explained.

In the simple case of the Muskox
dike, ﬁowage adequately explains both
the concentration of olivine toward
the center and its cryptic zoning (the
rise of Mg/Fe ratio in olivine toward
the center). At the time of intrusion,
the ﬁrst olivines with the highest Mg/
Fe ratio started to crystallize. As the
magma ﬂowed and cooled these crystals
migrated away from the walls, leaving
the residual ﬂuid depleted in Mg rela-
tive to Fe. Succeeding crystals became
relatively more rich in iron as the
process proceeded. The chemical evolu-
tion is similar in principle to that
occurring during normal gravitative
crystallization, except that separation
of crystals occurs across the gravity
ﬁeld rather than vertically within it.
Thus the process may be considered as
the flow analogue of gravitative differ-
entiation.

The chemical or cryptic zoning of
minerals by ﬁowage differentiation is
best developed among the ﬁrst formed
crystals and becomes more complex
as crystallization proceeds. In the
Muskox dike. both orthopyroxene and
plagioclasle show cryptic zoning which
can be interpreted as being due to
flowage. However their rims show zon-

ing due to chemical reaction with in-

terstitial liquid and this tends to mask
the earlier zoning due to ﬁowage. Final
crystallization of the interstitial liquids
produces mineral compositions related
to the local site of crystallization
rather than to the dike as a whole.
Where double, parallel, olivine-rich
(picrite) zones occur in the center
of the dike, several explanations are
possible. Obstructions in the conduit,
sudden swelling, turbulence, or pulsat-
ing conditions of ﬂowage will cause
the simple ﬂow pattern to break into
several parts. However, in general these
effects will only modify the shape of
the central mass of crystals by break-
ing or bending it, but will not destroy
it Completely.
SOMDEV BHATTACHARJI
CHARLES H. SMITH
Geological Survey of Canada,
Ottawa, Ontario

10 JULY 1964

References and Notes

1. H. I. Drever and R. Johnston, Trans. Roy.
Soc. Edinburgh 63, (3) 459 (1958).

2. C. H. Smith, Geol. Surv. Canada Prelim.
Paper 61-25 (1962); C. H. Smith and H.
Kapp,‘Mineral Soc. Am. Special Paper 1
(Washington, D.C., 1963), pp. 30—35.

3. Th. Zwartkruis and C. H. Smith, in prep-
aration.

4. O. L. Forgacs, A. Robertson, S. G. Mason,
Fundamentals of Paper Making Fibres;
(Pulp and Paper Res. Inst., Canada, 1959),
pp. 447—473; W. Baines, NRC Can. Rept.
MH-73 (1958).

5. J. L. Poiseuille, Ann. Sci. Nat. 2, (5), 111
(1836); A. Frey-Wyssling, Ed., Deformation
and Flow in Biological Systems (Amsterdam,

1952), chap. 6.
6. E. Condolios, P. Couratin, E. Chapus,
Can. Mining Met. Bull. 56, 187 (1963).

7. W. R. A. Baragar, Geol. Soc. Am. 71, 1631
(1960).

8. M. K. Hubbert, Bull. Geol. Soc. Am. 48,
1459 (1937). Details of the model analysis
and scale model for the Muskox feeder dike
will be published in a paper in preparation.

9. Standard Method of Test for Kinematic
Viscosity (Am. Soc. Testing Materials, Phil-
adelphia, 1962), vol. 1, p. 183.

10. G. A. MacDonald, Bull. Geol.
74, 1074 (1963).

Soc. Am.

11. V. Vand, J. Phys. Chem. 52, 277 (1948); S.
Bhattacharji, in preparation.

12. A. D. Maude and R. L. Whitmore,
J. Appl. Phys. 7, 98 (1956).

13. A. Karnis, H. L. Goldsmith, S. G. Mason,

Brit.

Nature 200, 159 (1963).

14. T. V. Starkey, Brit. J. Appl. Phys. 6, 34
(1955).

15. G. Vejlens, Acta Path. Microbiol., Scand.
Suppl., 33, 171 (1938).

16. R. Pao, Fluid Mechanics (Wiley, New York,
1961), pp. 424-427.

17. G. B. Jeffery, Proc. Roy. Soc. Ser. A. 102,
161 (1922).

18. H. Tollert,
(1954).

19. R. Simha, Kolloid Z. 76, 16 (1936).

20. We thank John Emslie, Geological Survey of
Canada, for his help with photography;
Jerry Meilleur for building the apparatus;
and Lee Cross Bhattacharji, for her as-
sistance in the laboratory. We also thank
P. Mandel and E. Dudgeon, National Re-
search Council of Canada, for many valu-
able suggestions and material assistance.
One of us (S.B.) is indebted to the National
Research Council of Canada for ﬁnancial
support. Canadian contribution to the In-
ternational Upper Mantle Project No. 39.

1 May 1964 I

Chem. Ing. Tech. 26, 141, 270

Dome-Shaped Volcanic Gas Vents in Arizona

Abstract. Dome-shaped fossil gasvents on one of the Hopi Butte diatremes
attest to escape of gas during the closing stage of volcanic activity.

Dome-shaped fossil gas vents occur
on t0p of one of the Hopi Buttes, the
Dilkon diatreme, 3.2 km (2 miles)
west and 1.6 km north of Dilkon
Trading Post. Late Pliocene volcanic
activity formed the Hopi Butte dia-
tremes, and the maﬁc lava is monchi-
quite (an igneous rock composed of
olivine, pyroxene, and mica in a ma-
trix of analcime).

The Dilkon diatreme is 90 to 120 m
(300 to 400‘ feet) high, is roughly cir-
cular and has a diameter of approxi—
mately 0.4 km at the top. The butte
is largely made up of monchiquite
which toward the top grades into a
rock composed of well—rounded balls
of monchiquite ranging in size from
a few centimeters to 0.6 m in diameter,
in a matrix of agglomerate (accumula-
tions of volcanic eject). Capping the
butte is about 3 m of thinly layered
tan limestone which was deposited in
a shallow lake within the diatreme.
Around the edges of the diatreme the
limestone dips inward 15 to 20 degrees,
indicating postdepositional sinking or
collapse of the central volcanic vent;
the fossil gas vents (Fig. 1) are found

in the limestone and cover most of the

upper surface of the butte.

The dome-shaped fossil vents were
formed by vertically rising gas that
quietly escaped from below. The dome
shape generally persists downward into

the underlying limestone layers and
only locally was turbulence sufﬁcient
to destroy completely the thin bedding
of the then still-unconsolidated lime-
stone. Vesicular channelways that car-
ried the rising gases lie within the
dome—shaped structures and the lime—
stone immediately below (Fig. 2).
Both thin sections and slabs cut
throngh the domes were examined mi-
croscopically for organic material; none
was observed. After solution of the
limestone in acid, the residue (about
10 percent of sample) was analyzed

 

Fossil dome-shaped volcanic gas
vent domes on exposed surface of dia-
treme.

Fig. 1.

153

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

u‘??? ﬂ—ﬂmm—‘EH’.’

 

Fig. 2. Layered limestone transected by
fossil gas channels. See vertical channel
near the center of the photograph.

by X-ray diffraction and proved to be
mostly quartz and goethite; x-ray ﬂuo-
rescence revealed chieﬂy Ca, Fe, and
Mn, and traces of Sr and K. The iron
occurs as oxide giving the tan color to
the limestone. The manganese occurs
as secondary pyrolusite dendrites.
RICHARD A. LAIDLEY
ROBERT L. DUBOIS
Geology Department,
University of Arizona, Tucson

Note

1. We thank Professor Ralph W. G. Wyckoff,
Physics Department, University of Arizona, for
the use of laboratory facilities.

6 January 1964

Strontium Fixation by Lime

Contained in Soils

Abstract. The suitability of soils for
the disposal of radioactive strontium
waste products is determined in part
by the amount and properties of cal-
cium carbonate in the soil. Analyses of
the strontium ion concentrations in the
eﬁ‘luent solution of soil columns and
x-ray diﬁraction patterns suggest that
a fraction of the strontium ions is pre-
cipitated as strontium carbonate.

The incorporation of radioactive
waste products from nuclear plants into
the soil is one of the proposed solu-
tions for the disposal of these wastes.
The suitability of soils for retaining
radioactive waste containing strontium-
90 is determined both by the composi-
tion and concentration of the waste and
by soil properties such as cation ex—
change capacity and pH.

154

Many soils in arid and semiarid
regions contain high concentrations of
calcium carbonate which might increase
the capacity of the soil for retaining
strontium ions. We are now reporting
on the adsorption process of strontium
ions.

Two soils were used. The clay con-
tent of soil No. 1 was 1.5 percent and
that of soil No. 2 was 47.0 percent.
both determined by the Sudan method
(2). The cation exchange capacities,
measured in soil columns with a solu—
tion of. CsCl containing Csm, were 1.00
and 13.7 meq per 100 g for soil Nos. 1
and 2, respectively. Soil No. 1 contained
26 percent carbonates and 0.9 percent
“active” lime. The carbonates percent-
age of soil No. 2 was 24.2 and the ac-
tive lime content in it was 13.8 pecent.
The carbonates were determined gaso—
metrically (3) and the active lime by
Drouineau’s method (4). The pH of a
water-saturated soil paste (5) of soil
No. 1 was 8.9 and that of soil No. 2
was 8.2. The gypsum content (5) was
0.025 and 0.030 percent in soil Nos.
1 and 2, respectively.

Soil columns were prepared by pack-
ing the soil samples in glass cylinders
(10 cm by 2.5 cm in diameter) closed
at the bottom by a plastic sponge. A
solution of 0.01N SrCl: containing 10‘2
MC per ml of Srs'5 was supplied to the
surface from a Mariotte bottle which
maintained a constant head. Constant-
volume fractions of the efﬂuent were
collected by means of a syphon and
transferred to plastic containers for
counting. The radioactivity was mea-
sured with a sodium iodide scintillation
counter. Two ﬂow rates of the solution
through the soil columns were used
for each soil, 2 to 4 cm per hour and
20 cm per hour. With soil No. 2, these
high ﬂow rates were achieved by mix-
‘ ing the soil with pure quartz sand. Each
experiment was carried out in triplicate
at a constant temperature of 22°
:1: 0.1°C.

Figure 1 shows the curves relating
the strontium concentration in the ef—
ﬂuent to the volume, for the two soils.

Both curves approach values of
C/Co (concentration of eﬂluent to that
of inﬂuent at a given volume) less than
unity, the values being 0.78 and 0.69
for soils Nos. 1 and 2, respectively.
These values were independent of the
ﬂow rates. The concentrations (do)
of the efﬂuent could not be raised even
by the passage of two to three times the
volume required to attain the asymp-
totic value. The constant eﬂiuent value
of less than unity was presumably

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

3 1.0 WV 1 l l l I l I [m
c. ._
0.8 :_.__;_, _______________
/
-——/—-——-——i
I
0.6 — ,’
I
-'l
1
0.4 -'
l
"1
0.2 -1
1
l
O 1 1 1 1 1 1 i 1 1
ICC 200 300 400 500
Vtcm3)‘

Fig. 1. The relation of the efﬂuent con-
centration to the volume. (The quantity
c/c., is the ratio of the concentration of
the efﬂuent at a given volume to that of
the inﬂuent.)

caused by precipitation of the strontium
ion.

Strontium may be precipitated in
the soil as its sulfate, phosphate, or
carbonate salt. In the soils investigated,
the low concentration of soluble sul-
fates and of phosphates soluble in
dilute acid. 0.01N HCI (a few parts
per million). could not account for the
relatively large amounts of strontium
inactivated.

Thus. by elimination, it appeared that
the reaction:

Sr++ + CaCOp. ::‘ SrCOs + Ca++

took place in the ﬁxation and resulted
in ﬁnal values of C/Cn smaller than
unity.

To check the foregoing assumption
that strontium is precipitated as car-
bonate. portions of each of the two
soil samples were washed with either
NaCl or SrC1-_-. and the x-ray diffrac-
tion pattern of their clay fraction was
determined. Sodium carbonate was used
as the dispersing agent. The surPlus
electrolyte was removed. and the water
in the clay suspension was replaced by
a solution of one part glycerol and two
parts ethanol (6). A Philips x-ray dlf-
fractometer model PW 30 with a 00131?“
tube was used for the analysis. . .

The data showed a remarkable dtmln-
ishing intensity of the CaCOs line and
appearance of SrC 0:1. It seems that the
appearance of SrCOa was caused both
by the aforementioned reaction and by
the precipitation of exchangeable 51'
with the carbonate associated with the
dispersing agent. That the Suggested
reaction is taking place is shown by the
disappearance of CaCOa. ThUS, part
of the strontium is being ﬁxed, in the.“
soils, by reaction with CaCOs. The dif-
ferences between the curves for the
two soils (Fig. 1) would suggest that

SCIENCE. VOL- ‘45

 

 




 

 

 

ﬁxation process depends on the proper-
ties of the individual soil—probably
the quality of the calcium carbonate
and its particle size.

The high concentration of calcium
carbonate in soils of arid and semiarid
regions could in some instances en-
large considerably the capacity of these
soils for the strontium ion. The quantity
of lime in these soils exceeds by far
the amount of exchangeable ions in the
double layer, and its importance in the
ﬁxation of strontium may be consider-
able.

R. MOKADY
M. GAL
National and University Institute
of Agriculture, Rehovot, Israel

References and Notes

1. W. J. Kaufman, in Radioactive Waste Dis-
posal (International Atomic Energy Agency,
Vienna, 1960), pp. 533—546.

2. W. Beam, Bull. U.S. Bur. Agr. 3, 1721 (1916).

3. D. E. Williams, Proc. Soil Sci. Soc. Am.
13, 127 (1948).

4. G. Drouineau, Ann. Agron. 12, 441 (1942).

5. L. A. Richards. “Diagnosis and Improvement
of Saline and Alkali Soils,” Agricultural Hand-
book Number 60 (U.S. Department of
Agriculture, Washington, 1954).

6. I. Barshad, in Clays and Clay Minerals, E.
Ingerson, Ed. (Pergamon Press, New York,
1960), pp. 350—364.

7. Supported by the Hazards Evaluation Com-
mittee of the Israel Atomic Energy Com-
mission.

16 April 1964

Oysters: Composition of the
Larval Shell

Abstract. The shell of the free-
swimming veliger larval stage of the
common North American oyster Cras-
sostrea Virginica (Gmelin, 1791) is
composed of aragonite. This composi—
tion contrasts with that of the adult
shell, which is composed mainly of cal—
cite, the rhombohedral allomorph of
calcium carbonate, and minor amounts
of aragonite.

In View of the largely calcitic com-
position of the adult oyster shell, it is
surPrising to ﬁnd that the prodisso-
conch, the shell of the free-swimming
Veliger larval stage, is composed of
alragonite—for both the prodissoconch
and the postlarval shell are secreted by
the epithelium of the mantle of the
fame oyster, although not at the same
.time.

Adult oyster shells consist mainly of
calcite, the rhombohedral allomorph of
calcmm carbonate, and minor amounts
Of aragOnite, the orthorhombic allo-
morph of the same substance. Arago-
10 JULY 1964

nite is restricted in the adult shell to
ﬁve small, distinct areas: the resilium
(I), which is the midportion of the
ligament between the valves, the pads
at which the ends of the large posterior
adductor muscle are inserted, and the
pads, one on each valve, at which
Quenstedt’s muscles are inserted (2).

Larvae of the common North Amer-
ican oyster Crassostrea Virginica (Gme-
lin, 1791) were reared in breeding
tanks at the Biological Laboratory of
the U.S. Bureau of Commercial Fish-
eries, Milford, Connecticut. When any
of them died, they were collected,
washed with distilled water and dried
at 35°C; no preservatives were used
(3 )-

The dried larvae were picked care-
fully under a binocular microsc0pe to
avoid the inclusion in the sample of
any accidental impurities or any larvae
in the process of metamorphosis. Lar-
vae in metamorphosis can be recog-
nized by a narrow rim of white opaque
postlarval shell encircling the hyaline
prodissoconch. The sample thus se-
lected included various larval stages,
from the straight-hinge veliger larva
with its shell, the protostracum, to the
very latest stage of the umbo larva
with its shell, the prodissoconch.

The shell of either larval stage is
very thin, hyaline, and translucent. On
the shell of a full-grown veliger larva,
ready to settle on a substratum, the
boundaries between the various stages
are not sharply deﬁned (Fig. 1); one
has grown imperceptibly into the other,
and there is no reason to suspect any
differences in composition between
them. The x-ray diffraction pattern
(Fig. 2) shows that the sample is com-
posed of aragonite; no calcite is in-
dicated. The pattern proves that arago-
nite continues to be deposited through
both stages.

In view of the largely calcitic com-
position of the adult shell, the question
arises as to why the larval shell of the
oyster is composed of aragonite. The
speciﬁc gravity of aragonite is 2.95,
and that of calcite is 2.72. As far as
weight is concerned, no advantage
would be gained by the planktonic or
free—swimming animal if it built its shell
of aragonite rather than calcite. The
answer to the question is not to be
found in a comparison with the adult
oyster, but in a comparison with the
larval shells of other Bivalvia. Although
I have tested only larval shells of Mer-
cenaria mercenaria (Linné, 1758)
(Fig. 2), it is most likely that

LEFT VALVE

 

RIGHT VALVE

Fig. 1. Prodisso-conch of veliger larva of
Crassostrea Virginica, modiﬁed from Ran-
son (4) (x 165).

all, or nearly all, Bivalvia have arago-
nitic larval shells because the great ma-
jority of them have aragonitic adult
shells (5). It may be assumed, there-
fore, that the larvae of the oysters
merely conform to the general pattern
in the Bivalvia. The larval oyster shells
have aragonitic shells because their an-
cestors did, and there was and is no
adaptive need for the free-swimming
larvae to have shells of a composition
other than aragonite.

The question should be put the other
way around. Why do larval oysters sud-
denly begin depositing calcite after they
have attached themselves to a sub-
stratum and begun metamorphosis?
Adult oysters are permanently immo-
bilized and live in an environment dif-
ferent from that of the larvae which
requires different adaptations. Arago-

 

Fig. 2. X-ray diffraction pattern of veliger
larvae of Crassostrea Virginica (Gmelin,
1791) (A) and Mercenaria mercenaria
(Linné, 1758) (B).

155

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

nitic shells may be more advantageous
to free-moving bivalves, because arag-
onite is harder, has greater strength
as a structural material, and is less
prone to breakage by cleaving than
calcite. On the other hand, calcitic
shells may be more advantageous to
bivalves permanently immobilized in
certain environments, because calcite
is more stable and much less subject
to leaching in the sea water and be-
cause calcite can be secreted more eco-
nomically than aragonite. Secreted cal-
cite ﬁlls a larger volume per mole than
aragonite. Adult oysters need a thick
shell for defense against predators.

H. B. STENZEL
Shell Development Company,
Exploration and Production Research
Division, Houston, Texas

References and Notes

1. H. B. Stenzel, Science 136, 1121 (1962).

2. , ibid. 142, 232 (1963).

3. I thank J. E. Hanks and W. S. Landers of
the Bureau of Commercial Fisheries, Bio-
logical Laboratory, Milford, Conn., for the
samples used.

4. G. Ranson, Inst.
1183, 13 (1960).
5. O. B. B¢ggild, Kgl. Danske Videnskab. Sel—
skabs Skrifter, Naturv. Mat. Afdel. ser. 9, 2

(No. 2), 233 (1930).

14 May 1964

 

Oceanog. Bull. (Monaco)

Femoral Expansion in Aging
Women: Implications for
Osteoporosis and Fractures

Abstract. In femoral radiographs of
2030 aging women, the diameter of the
midshaft periosteum increased as corti-
cal thickness declined. Since the corti-
cal area enlarged, periosteal accretion
exceeded endosteal resorption. Since the
section modulus increased more than
did cortical area, the ratio of ﬂexural
failure resistance to crush resistance in-
creased, in apparent contrast to the
changes observed in the femoral neck.

The great extent to which the human
skeleton involutes with age is apparent
in the high incidence of spontaneous
vertebral and femoral fractures in el-
derly women. In studying the correla-
tion between vertebral and femoral atro-
phy we obtained unexpected results in
respect to femoral dimensions. These
results are reported brieﬂy here.

Standard anteroposterior radiographs
of femurs were obtained in a study of
2030 women, aged 45 to 90 years. All
were ambulatory outpatients or hospi-

, 156

 

Table 1. Dimensions and calculated derivatives for the femoral midshafts of subjects in dif-

ferent age groups.

Observed data

 

Calculated data*

 

 

 

No. of Periosteal Cortical Endosteal Cross-section Section
Age subjects diameter‘f thicknessi‘ diameter cortical area modulus
group (2030) (mm) (mm) (mm) (mm?) (mm3)
45—49 286 31.32 :015 18.67 :0.17 12.65 644 2935
50—54 303 31.60 :0.15 18.69 :0.14 12.91 653 3010
55—59 501 31.86 :0.13 18.17 :0.12 13.69 652 3065
60—64 424 32.12 :014 17.96 :0.14 14.16 653 3129
65—69 291 32.85 1:0.16 18.08 :016 14.77 678 3336
70—74 162 33.03 :023 17.32 :022 15.71 661 3355
75—90 63 34.74 :0.32 17.68 :037 17.06 718 3875

.1.

ﬂ]!!—
* Based on group means of observed data. 1

tal personnel; none had skeletal disease
and each entered the survey voluntarily.
Cortical thickness and the periosteal di-
ameter of the left femur were measured
with a transparent plastic rule. Measure-
ments to the nearest 0.5 mm were made
at the point along the shaft where, in
the anterOposterior projection, cortical
thickness is maximal and femoral di-
ameter is minimal. This position,
roughly pear—shape in cross-section, ap-
proximates the mid-shaft (I) and cor-
responds closely to section 40 of Koch
(2). Cortical thickness, as used here, rep-
resents the sum of the two projected
cortices. To test the reliability of the
measurements, 50 replicate readings of
randomly selected radiographs were
made 9 months apart, the sites for mea-
surement being reselected. Reliability
for cortical thickness was 0.93 and for
diameter, 0.93.

The difference between the periosteal
diameter and cortical thickness was re-
corded as the inner or endosteal di-
ameter. Cross-sectional cortical areas
were calculated from equation
7r/4(2cd-c2) where c is cortical thick-
ness, d is periosteal diameter, and sec-
tion shape is assumed to be circular. As
a measure of bone volume, the cortical
area is a determinant of resistance to
longitudinal compression forces (stress
equals force divided by area). To ob—
tain a rough index of resistance to ﬂex-
ural failure, section moduli were calcu-
lated from the equation

(’1 1"”1‘
7r [_ _
Zz—X 2 2

2 d

by appropropriate substitution of c and
d for R1 and R2, the outer and inner
radii of a tubular structure, in the con-
ventional equation

 

71' R14 — R04
or —— ____;
Ymax 4 X R1

 

Z:

Mean i standard error.

 

where Z is the section modulus or mea-
sure of applied bending moment re-
quired to gain a given level of stress in
outermost ﬁbers. 1 is the area moment
of inertia, and Y“... is the distance of
maximal stress from the neutral line.
Chemical composition, porosity, and
microstructure were assumed to be sim-
ilar in all age groups. Cross-sectional
areas and section moduli were calculated
with mean measurement values for 5-
year age groups; the percentages of
change were computed, the data of the
45 to 49 age group being used as ref-
erence.

As shown in Table l, the mean peri-
osteal diameter increased successively
by 0.2 to 0.3 mm per 5 years through
age group 60 to 64, then by increments
of 0.7. 0.2. and 1.7 mm to an overall
3.4 mm gain. Changes in cortical thick-
ness were less, with reductions of 1.4 and
1.0 mm for the two oldest groups. By
variance analyses of all data, the p value
was << .001 both for diameter and
for cortex. Since periosteal diameter in-
creased and cortical thickness decreased,
endosteal diameter expanded faster with
a gain of 4.4 mm (35 percent) between
the youngest and oldest groups. These
progressive increases in diameters re-
sult in similar gains in theoretical sur-
face areas, 11 percent for periosteal
and 35 for endosteal. In addition, an
overall gain of 74 mm2 in cortical area
was found to be the net result of 177
mm having been added periosteally
while 103 mm were resorbed endoste-
ally. Expressed as rates, the outer accre-
tion of femoral bone was 1.7 times
faster than inner resorption. Finally,
from gains in periosteal diameter and
cortical area, the section modulus 111‘
Creased progressively. totaling 32 per-
cent for the oldest femurs.

These observations are pertinent t9
the causality and effects of ost<30190ro_s.ls
which is evidenced so commonly in

VOL- 145

SCIENCE,

 

P-

 

 

 




 

women beyond middle life by vertebral Table 2. Periosteal diameter of femurs at three sites. The subjects were selected at random

 

 

 

and femoral fractures. The fractures ap-
pear to result from an age-related loss
of bone mass, judged from the well-
known reductions in cortical and tra-
becular thickness and from decreasing
femoral density (total weight divided by
total volume) (3). Reductions in mass of
25 to 50 percent have been estimated
for osteOporotic spines of women in
whom rates of calcium accretion have
been found normal (4). To explain this
discrepancy, increased resorption rates
have been proposed (4), but seemingly
relevant is our evidence in “averaged”
aging femurs that remodeling occurs
without apparent net loss of compact
bone and that theoretical surface areas
substantially increase. From the young-
est to oldest groups, vertebral osteoporo-
sis of signiﬁcant degree increased from
19 to 90 percent (5). Thus, from mean
data only, femurs of largest diameter
and surface areas were found in the
group with highest incidence of signif-
icant vertebral atrophy.

Our measurements were made at
the section where the transverse di-
ameter, although minimal, is less than
the anteroposterior diameter which is
enhanced by the prominent linea as-
pera. Dimensional changes of similar
type and magnitude would not be ex-
pected in other sections of the femUr
with different stress-structural relation-
ships. Indeed, as shown in Table 2,
the increases in diameter with age
were less at sections above midshaft,
1.8 mm at the section (circular) just
below the lesser trochanter [section 24
of Koch (2)] and only 0.9 mm at the
femoral neck section of minimal di-
ameter.

This suggests that fiexural stress
with bowing, which is maximal
at about midshaft, activates the peri-
osteal accretion of bone. Meanwhile the
trabeculated, nontubular and, thus,
more rigid femoral neck undergoes a
Proportionately smaller increase with
age, For older femurs at midshaft,
gains in section moduli mean increased
resistance to ﬁexural forces. This has
more signiﬁcance for subjects in whom
Skeletal ingredients are diminished,
Slnce the resistance of the shaft to
ﬂexure can be maintained even with
less bone provided it has been re-
modeled into a cortex of larger di-
ameter.

However, this entire osteoporotic
femur will bow less and store less
elastlc energy. With resistance to ﬂex-

10 JULY 1964

from the oldest and the youngest groups.

 

Periosteal diameter (mm)*

 

 

Age No. of

group subjects Midshaft Subtrochanteri‘ Femoral necki
45—49 30 31.03 :0.50 34.20 :0.52 35.91 :0.42
75—90 30 34.63 :0.39 35.95 :0.35 36.85 10.39

Increase 3.60 1.75 0.94

P <.001 <01 <10

 

* Mean : standard error.

ural forces being decreased in the neck
relative to the shaft, the femoral neck
becomes the most vulnerable site for
fracture. Similarly, trabeculated, non-
tubular, rigid vertebrae become prone
in later life to compression fractures
from minimal ﬂexural forces since there
is no compensatory increase in verte-
bral diameter with age (5).

We have not shown that all femurs
participate similarly in structural re-
modeling which, since mean data only
are presented, could represent either a
progressively differing population sam-
pled for successive age groups or an
increasing rate of “dropping out” of
women with smaller femoral diameters.
However, these two explanations seem
untenable since the diameters of both
the metacarpal and lumbar vertebrae
remained constant despite signiﬁcant
cortical thinning (5). Whereas the mean
diameters of adult radii are unchanged
with age (6), rib diameters increase
(7). If changes in the tibia and ﬁbula
are also found to parallel those of the
femur, they may reﬂect a progressive
adaptation to the erect state in which
ﬂexural and longitudinal compression
forces on leg bones from lifelong

T Lesser; section 24 of Koch (2).

it At section of smallest diameter.

weight-bearing decline proportionately

less than do predominantly flexural

forces on the arms and predominantly

compression forces on the spine.
RICHMOND W. SMITH, JR.

RICHARD R. WALKER

Division of Endocrinology,

Henry Ford Hospital,

Detroit 2, Michigan

References and Notes

1. From the point of measurement to the lowest
point on the superior surface of the femoral
neck, the mean distance was 19.0 i- 1.5 cm.

.1. C. Koch, Am. J. Anat. 21, 177 (1917).

.G. E. Broman, M. Trotter, R. R. Peterson,
Am. J. Phys. Anthropol. 16, 197 (1958).

4. L. Lutwak and G. D. Whedon, Disease-A-
Month, April (1963).

.R. W. Smith, B. Frame, R. R. Walker, in
preparation.

6. H. E. Meema, Am. J. Roentgenol. Radium

Therapy Nucl. Med. 89, 1287 (1963.

7. E. D. Sedlin, H. M. Frost, A. R. Villanueva,
J. Gerontol. 18, 9 (1963).

8. Data of this study were analyzed on a com-

puter by Univac, Division of Sperry Rand

Corporation, St. Paul, supervised by Leslie

Knutson. Valuable suggestions regarding

interpretations of data in terms of stress

and structure were made by David Keiper,
consulting physicist, San Francisco. Con-
structive reviews of this report were received
from Stanley Garn of the Fels Institute,

Yellow Springs, Ohio, and G. Donald Whedon

of the National Institutes of Health.

The study was supported by funds from the

USPHS, Division of Accident Prevention,

under contract SAph. 77270.

UJN

(J!

9

2 June 1964 I

Identiﬁcation of Acetylcholine in Sympathetic
Ganglia by Chemical and Physical Methods

Abstract. Extracts of sympathetic ganglionic chains contain a substance which
behaves like acetylcholine biologically, chromatograp‘hically, and electrophoreti-
cally. The melting point of the tetrachloroaurate salt of this substance is identical
to that of acetylcholine tetrachloroaurate. No other choline esters have been
detected in these extracts. Perfusion of sympathetic ganglia with Cu—choline in-

dicates that CM—acetylcholine is released.

Acetylcholine was the ﬁrst choline
ester isolated from natural sources (I).
More recently, a number of choline
esters have been found in animal tis-
sues (2). The choline ester in sympa-
thetic paravertebral ganglionic chains

is thought to be acetylcholine (3). This
hypothesis is based on results obtained
with nonspeciﬁc chemical tests, bio-
assay procedures, and classical pharma—
cological tests. In the investigation de-
scribed here, more deﬁnitive techniques

157

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Table 1. The chromatographic behavior of
the acetylcholine-like substance as compared
with C14-acetylcholine. Descending paper
chromatography was conducted for 17 hours
in each system.

 

 

RF*
Solvent ————————’——-——
(vol : vol) _ EX- C”-
tract 1‘ ACh 3;
n-Butanol-water(9 : 1) 0.09 0.08

n-Propanol-water(9 : 1) 0.32 0.32

n-Pmpanol-water-formic
acid(8 : 1 : 1) \ 0.65 0.65

n—Butanol-ethanol-acetic
acid-water(8 : 2 : 1 : 3) 0.51 0.50

 

 

* Each set of RF values for a solvent repre-
sents one experiment. T Puriﬁed acetylcholine-
like substance obtained from beef sympathetic
ganglia. 3; C14-acetylcholine.

were used to test the above hypothesis.
Paper chromatographic and paper
electrophoretic methods were used to
characterize the acetylcholine-like sub-
stance derived from sympathetic gang-
lia. In addition, the tetrachloroaurate
salt of the puriﬁed acetylcholine-like
substance obtained from beef sympa-
thetic ganglia was prepared and its
melting point determined (4).

The data obtained by paper chroma-
tography and paper electrophoresis
(Tables 1 and 2) indicate that the
choline ester present in sympathetic
ganglia is acetylcholine. The melting
point of the tetrachloroaurate salt of
the acetylcholine—like substance is 164°
to 167°C. Acetylcholine tetrachloro-
aurate melts at 164° to 166.5°C and a
mixture of the two salts melts at 165°
to 167°C. Perfusion of the cat superior
cervical ganglion with CM-choline re-
sulted in the release of a C14-labeled
substance which has been tentatively
identiﬁed as acetylcholine.

A 10-percent solution of trichloro-
acetic acid (5) was used to extract
the sympathetic ganglionic chains

Table 2. The relative electrophoretic mobility
(Rm) of the acetylcholine-like substance in
beef extracts. In each case a 0.5M ammonium
acetate buffer was used. The electrical gradient
was 17.55 v/cm except at pH 6.0 where it
was 21.74 v/cm.

 

 

35a: “(Tiff Rm 7
3.0 314 0.98
4.0 3 1.00
5.0 4 0.99
6.0 2 1.02

 

* The time the compounds were subjected to
the electrical gradients. 1' Each Rm value
represents one eXperiment; Rm values were
computed with reference to the mobility of CM-
acetylcholine and are expressed as a ratio.

158

excised from beef and cats. These
extracts were puriﬁed (6) and sub-
jected to paper chromatography and
to paper electrophoresis (7). To serve
as a reference standard, CM-acetyl-
choline was mixed into the puriﬁed
extract. A radioactive (strip) counter
was used to ascertain how far the
CM-acetylcholine had moved. The lo-
cation of the acetylcholine-like sub-
stance was detected after elution of
suitable zones with 0.9-percent NaCl
solution and bioassay of the eluates.

The chromatographic behavior of
the acetylcholine-like substance ob-
tained from beef ganglionic chains is
illustrated in Table l. The electro-
phoretic mobility of the same substance
is depicted in Table 2. In each system
the acetylcholine-like substance moves
essentially the same distance from the
origin as does C“-acetylcholine. Al-
most identical results were obtained
when extracts from the sympathetic
ganglionic chains of cats were ex-
amined. No other choline esters were
detected in these extracts.

The contraction of the isolated rectus
abdominis muscle of the frog and
the vasodepressor response in cats were
the tests used for the bioassays. The
sensitivity of the two biological test
objects to acetylcholine and to the
acetylcholine-like substance was
comparable. Physostigmine salicylate
(50 ng/ kg, given intravenously) potenti-
ated the vasodepressor activity of both
acetylcholine and the acetylcholine-
like substance. The prior administration
of atropine sulfate (0.2 mg/kg, given
intravenously) blocked the effects of
both substances on cat blood pressure.
Furthermore, neostigmine bromide
(l X 10‘6M) potentiated the effects of
both acetylcholine and the acetyl-
choline—like substance on the isolated
frog muscle. Treatment of the frog
muscle with d-tubocurarine chloride
(10 Mg/ ml) prevented acetylcholine
and the acetylcholine—like substance
from inducing a contractile response.

The biological activity of both ace-
tylcholine and the acetylcholine-like
substance was destroyed after incu-
bation in cat blood for 4 minutes at
25°C. Similarly, both compounds were
inactivated when they were incubated
in a saline solution of pH 10 for 1
minute at 100°C.

The above biological and pharma-
cological tests are commonly used by
investigators to identify acetylcholine
in tissue extracts (5). However, these
tests cannot be relied on for the de-

 

 

ﬁnitive characterization of acetylcho-
line, especially when they are applied
to crude extracts (2). Our tests were

performed on the puriﬁed acetylcho-
line-like substance.

The chemical substance concerned
with the transmission of nerve im-
pulses in sympathetic ganglia has been
shown to possess acetylcholine-like
properties (8). We have attempted to
identify this chemical mediator with
the use of C”-choline. The superior
cervical ganglion of the cat was per-
fused with Locke’s solution buffered
at pH 7.4 (9). The Locke’s solution
also contained 20 Mg of physostigmine

salicylate and 5 lag of CM-choline
chloride per milliliter. Preliminary
electrophoretic ( IO) and chromato-

graphic (1]) data indicate that all
of the radioactivity in the effluent of a
ganglion whose preganglionic ﬁbers
are electrically stimulated can be ac-
counted for as C"‘-choline and C”-
acetylcholine. The relative electro-
phoretic mobility (Rm) and RF values
of one radioactive compound were the
same as the corresponding values for
acetylcholine. The other radioactive
compound possessed the same electro-
phoretic and chromatographic prop—
erties as choline.

The data provide strong evidence
that acetylcholine is present in sympa-
thetic paravertebral ganglionic chains
and add support to the View that it
functions as a chemical mediator of
preganglionic sympathetic nerve ac-
tivity. Choline esters other than ace—
tylcholine do not appear to participate
in the above process. '

ABRAM J. D. FRIESENi‘
JOHN W. KEMP
DIXON M. WOODBURY
Department of Pharmacology, College
of Medicine, University of Utah,
Salt Lake City

References and Notes

1. A. J. Ewins. Biochem. J. 8. 44 (191.4}: 6};-
H. Dale and H. W. Dudley, J. Physm. ,
97 (1929). ‘

2. V. P. Whittaker, Handbuch Exptl. Pharma
kol. 15, 1 (1963). ,

3. H. C. Chang and J. H. Gaddum, J. Physrol.
79, 255 (1933). .

.E. A. Hosein. P. Proulx, P. Ara, Biochem.
J. 83. 341 (1962).

. F. C. MacIntosh and W. L. M. Perry,
Methods Med. Res. 3. 78 (1950). duced

. Extracts were evaporated under .re resi-
pressure at 20° to 25°C. The resulting 5-ml
due was extracted ﬁve t1mes Wit t'on in
Volumes of acetone. The acetone solu 12 In
turn was evaporated to 0.1 ml or . with
and subjected to paper electrophoreSIS . .
a 0.5M ammonium acetate buffer at 1:1

7. Whatman No. 1 ﬁlter paper was usephysiol-

8. W. Feldberg and J. H. Gaddum, L

J.

O‘MA

81, 305 (1934).

9. R. Birks and F. MaCIntOSh’ Carl-

C.
Biochem. Physiol. 39, 787 (1961)-
SCIENCE, VOL) 145

 

 

 




 

 

electrophoresis with a 0.3M sodium
buffer solution (pH 4.0) was

characterize the radioactive com-
pounds. Nonradioactive choline and acetyl-
choline were used as reference standards.
The system was subjected to 26.3 v/cm for
2.5 hours. Acetylcholine moved 41,4 cm
from the origin. The Rm of choline was 1.13.

11. Paper chromatography with n-butanol-water
(9 :1 by volume) was used to characterize
the radioactive compounds. Descending
chromatography was conducted for 18 hours.
Nonradioactive choline and acetylchoine
were used as reference standards. The RF
of choline was 0.07 and the RF of ace-
tylcholine was 0.10.

12. Supported by grants from the NIH (NB—
04553 and 5T1—ClM—153).

*Predoctoral trainee under PHS pharma-
cology training grant 5T1—GM—153.

1 June 1964

10. Paper
phosphate
used to

“Cytoplasmic” Sterility in Drosophila
paulistorum Which Is Ultimately
Dependent on Nuclear Genes

Abstract. A case of hybrid sterility
in Drosophila paulistorum is due to an
incompatibility of the Y chromosome
of certain strains with the cytoplasm of
other strains. The constitution of the
cytoplasm responsible for the sterility is
not, however, independent of the
chromosomal genes. After seven back-
crosses of the hybrid females to males
of the same strain, fertile male prog-
enies are finally obtained.

At least three different kinds of hy-
brid sterility occur within the super-
species Drosophila paulistorum. This
superspecies consists of six races or in-
cipient species; hybrids between the
races are fertile as females but sterile
as males (1). The hybrid females can
be backcrossed to males of the parental
races, and the backcross progenies con-
sist again of fertile daughters and ster-
ile sons. The sterility of the backcross
males depends upon the genetic con-
stitution of their mothers; all the sons
Of a female carrying any mixture of
the chromosomes of the parental races
are sterile, even if some of these sons
themselves carry only the chromosomes
of a single race (2). This is, then, an
instance of a genic sterility operating
through a maternal effect, the genes re—
Sponsible being distributed in all three
Pairs of the chromosomes which the
SPecies possesses. Evidently, the sterility
0f the F1 males is due to a different
mechanism, since F1 hybrids are de-
scendants of pure rather than hybrid
mothers.

A third kind of sterility has been
reported (3), so far in only a single
Cross, between strains from Mesitas and
those from Santa Marta, Colombia.

10 JULY 1964

Both the Mesitas and Santa Marta
strains belong to the Transitional race
of D. paulistorum. The cross Mesitas
female >< Santa Marta male gives fertile
hybrids of both sexes, but the male
progeny of the reciprocal cross is sterile.
The hybrid females can be backcrossed
to males of either parental strain; the
male progenies of these backcrosses
are sterile if they carry the Y chromo-
some of Mesitas in the Santa Marta
cytoplasm, or the Y chromosome of
Santa Marta in Mesitas cytoplasm.
Genetic analysis consequently suggests
that the sterility is caused by an inter-
action of the Y chromosome of the
Santa Marta strain with the cytOplasm
of Mesitas. This inference was based
on a study of four backcross genera-
tions to both parental strains. Males
with cytoplasm of Mesitas origin and a
Santa Marta Y chromosome were
sterile even when about 9-7 percent of
their genome (other than the Y chromo-
some) were of Santa Marta origin.
Since the earlier report (3) was pub-
lished, additional backcrosses have
been made to test the possibility that
the cytoplasmic difference may eventu-
ally be overcome by the nuclear genes
(4).

Fifteen new strains of D. paulistorum
were obtained (5) from Mesitas, Co—
lumbia. These strains behaved like the
old Mesitas strain (6), and were
pooled into three stocks. All the experi-
ments crossing Mesitas with Santa
Marta were, therefore, made in trip-
licate; the results were uniform and
can be described jointly. Mesitas fe—
males were crossed to Santa Marta
males and the hybrid females were
backcrossed repeatedly to Santa Marta
males. The male progenies of the ﬁrst
four backcross generations were, as
before, sterile. By the ﬁfth or sixth
backcross generation some motile
spermatozoa were seen in the sperm-
storing organs of the females with
which the hybrid males were tested,
but still none of the eggs deposited by
these females hatched. The male
progeny of the seventh backcross gen-
eration is, however, entirely fertile.

A similar situation was observed in
the crosses with the Santa Marta cyto-
plasm. Six backcrosses to Mesitas
males yielded sterile male hybrids, but
the seventh backcross generation gave
at least some fertile males. The progeny
of the seventh backcross is expected to
have more than 99 percent of the genes
of the recurrent parent. Thus, by re-
peated backcrosses the origin of the

cytoplasm is ﬁnally overcome by the
chromosomal genes. If the properties
of the cytoplasm were transmitted in-
dependently of the nucelar genes, the
sterility of the backcross males would
have to be retained irrespective of the
number of the backcrosses made, as it
was after some 60 generations in the
experiments of Laven (7) on a cyto—
plasmic sterility in crosses between cer-
tain mosquitoes. This is, however, not
the case in Drosophila paulistorum.
Finally, the male progeny of the
seventh backcross generation of (Santa
Marta female >< Mesitas male) ><
Mesitas male was crossed to pure Santa
Marta females. All the hybrid males
thus obtained were sterile, just as the
initial Santa Marta female >< Mesitas
male F1 males.

LEE EHRMAN
The Rockefeller Institute,
New York 10021

References and Notes

1. Th. Dobzhansky and B. Spassky, Proc. Natl.
Acad. Sci. U.S. 45, 419 (1959).

. L. Ehrman, Evolution 14, 2 (1960).

, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S. 49‘, 155

(1963).

. Several colleagues, especially Ernst Caspari
of Rochester University and Theodosius Dobz-

hansky of the Rockefeller Institute suggested
that these backcrosses should be made.

5. Through the courtesy of A. S. Hunter, Uni-
versidad de los Andes, Bogata, Colombia.

6. Th. Dobzhansky, L. Ehrman,_ O. Pavlovsky,
B. Spassky, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S. 51,
3_ (1964).

7. H. Laven, in Cold Spring Harbor Symp.
Quant. Biol. 24, 166 (1959).

8. This work was carried out under contract No.
AT-(30-1)-3096, U.S. Atomic Energy Commis-
Slon.

20 April 1964

 

3-th

Lateral Geniculate Nucleus and
Cerebral Cortex: Evidence for a
Crossed Pathway

Abstract. Lesions were placed in the
lateral geniculate nucleus of cats, and
degeneration was traced in the brains
after survival times ranging from 5
to 21 days. Degenerated ﬁbers could
be seen in the corpus callosum and in
the lateral and suprasylvian gyri of the
opposite hemisphere. Results suggest
the presence of a crossed genicula-
cortical pathway.

A number of earlier authors (I) sug—
gested the possibility of a tract con-
necting each lateral geniculate nucleus
with the contralateral cortex by way of
the corpus callosum. Such a pathway
was proposed to account for the para-
doxical sparing of the macular portion
of the visual ﬁelds in man after massive

159

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

    

ﬁbers could be seen in the corpus
callosum and in the white matter un-
derneath the lateral or suprasylvian (or
both) gyri of the opposite hemisphere.
Degeneration appeared more marked
in animals that survived 21 days; the
longer the cats survived, the more fre-
quently could contralateral preterminal
degeneration be seen in the deepest
cortical layers of the lateral gyrus an-
teriorly and in the suprasylvian gyrus
posteriorly. The distribution of the ob-
served preterminal ﬁbers appeared to
coincide roughly with the boundaries
of visual area 11 as described by Talbot

Lateral geniculate nucleus

Fig. 1. Operative route for geniculate and
control lesions.

if any,

in this brain were well stained. Figure 2
shows sections through three of the
brains studied and high-power photo-
micrographs of the apex of the lateral
gyrus opposite and slightly posterior to
the lesion. Geniculate lesions and con-
tralateral degeneration in brains from
cats that survived 5 and 21 days are
shown in Fig. 2. A and B, and C and
D, respectively: the control lesion with
absence of degeneration in the lateral
gyrus is shown in Fig. 2, E and F.
Evidence in the literature indicates
indirectly that a crossed geniculo-corti-
cal pathway may exist and be of con-
siderable functional importance. As

 

unilateral occipital lesions. However,
the presence of such a ﬁber system
was questioned on the basis of two
major anatomical observations. First,
retrograde degeneration was not found
in the opposite lateral geniculate nu-

(4). In the control animal, few,
degenerating ﬁbers were found in the
contralateral white matter; nor could
preterminal ﬁber degeneration be ob-
served in the contralateral visual cortex,
although other degenerating pathways

mentioned previously, sparing of the
macular portion of the visual ﬁelds in
man has been demonstrated even after
surgical amputation of the occipital
cortex (5). Additional support has re-

cleus after lesions had been made in
the Visual cortex (1). And secondly,
the pathway’s existence has been dis-
puted on the basis of negative ﬁndings
in secondary degeneration studies. Pol-
yak (I) was unable to trace Marchi
granules to the opposite visual cortex
after unilateral lesions were made in
the visual radiations or_lateral genicu-
late nucleus of the monkey. However,
these studies do not conclusively dis-
prove that such a tract exists. Severing
one branch of a corticopetal ﬁber does
not invariably lead to retrograde de-
generation (2). Moreover, the Marchi
stain is rather selective for large caliber
ﬁbers.

Using a modiﬁed Nauta stain for
degenerating axons (3), we reexamined
the possibility of ﬁbers arising in the
lateral geniculate nucleus and travers—
ing the corpus callosum to the opposite
cortex. Anodal lesions (2.5 to 5 ma;
20 to 60 sec) were made in the lateral
geniculate nucleus of ﬁve cats, and de-
generating ﬁbers were traced in the
brains of cats after survival times rang-
ing from 5 to 21 days. A control animal
was also studied in which the lesion was
placed ventrolateral to the lateral
geniculate nucleus with little damage
being done to the geniculate cells. In all
cases, as shown in Fig. 1, the needle
track was oriented on a 40-degree angle
from horizontal to minimize commis-
sural damage in the posterior portion of
the hemisphere. We are now reporting
only the degeneration in the corpus
callosum and the lateral and supra-
sylvian gyri of the opposite hemi-

sphere.
In each animal with a lesion in the
lateral geniculate nucleus, degenerated

160

 

     

Fig. 2. Cresyl-violet stained frozen sections of two geniculate lesions (A, C) andcf
the brain from the control cat (E) along with corresponding areas of degeneration
(B, D, F) stained by a modiﬁed Nauta technique. B. D, and F were taken from apex
0f lateral gyrus, slightly Posterior to plane of whole brain section (X 210). Cats from
which A—B were obtained survived 5 days, C—D and E—F, 21 days. Damage to corpus

callosum in A and temporal lobe and habenula in C are postmortem artifacts.
SCIENCE, VOL 145

 

 

 




 

 

 

sulted from behavioral studies. Glick-
stein et al. (6) observed an apparent
- recovery from hemianopia in monkeys
after unilateral section of the optic
tract. Subsequent section of the corpus
callosum gave the appearance of rein-
stating the hemianopia. A similar ob-
servation had been reported in the
early literature by Imamura (7) and
Yoshimura (8) who noted a “hemi-
amblyopia” in dogs after unilateral
lesions were made in the occipital cor-
tex. The condition seemed to disappear
with time. However, if the corpus
callosum of these animals was subse-
quently sectioned, the visual defects
were reinstated. In terms of the pro-
posed crossed pathway, interpretation
of these studies of cortical lesions and
sectioning of the corpus callosum is
relatively straightforward. However,
problems of interpretation arise in the
case of optic tract sectioning since,
according to the classical understand-
ing of retinal-geniculate anatomy, optic
tract section alone should lead to a
complete hemianopia.

Such a pathway could be important
in interpreting interocular transfer of
visual learning in cat and monkey.
Myers reported that a visual discrimi-
nation, learned monocularly, is trans-
ferred to the untrained eye in cats with
the chiasma sectioned. Such discrimina-
tions are not transferred if the Corpus
callosum is sectioned as well (9). A simi-
lar effect in the monkey has been de-
scribed by Downer (10) and Sperry
(11). These authors have assumed that
the interhemispheric mechanism by
which a contralateral trace is estab-
lished in the chiasma-sectioned animal
involves a cortico-cortical commissural
route. The evidence presented here
SUggests that interhemispheric transfer
may be brought about in part by a
Simple bifurcation of the Visual projec-
tlon Pathway from the lateral genicu-
late nucleus.

There are two major possible sources
0f artifact in our experiment. The. ob-
served degeneration may have resulted
from inadvertent damage to commis-
Sural neurons or their axons. However,
the lesions were located far from the
route of typical commissural ﬁbers of
the lateral gyrus. Moreover, our con-
trol case exhibited little or no degen-
eration in the lateral and suprasylvian
gym of the opposite hemisphere, a situ-
ation which further suggests that com-
missural damage did not occur. The
Second possibility for artifact, that of
transneuronal degeneration, is unlikely

10 JULY 1964

since contralateral degeneration was ob-
served after survival periods as short
as 5 days. Thus, we believe the ana-
tomical evidence indicates the exist-
ence of a pathway crossing from the
lateral geniculate nucleus of one hemi-
sphere to the lateral and suprasylvian
gyri of the other by way of the corpus
callosum.
M. GLICKSTEIN
J. MILLER
O. A. SMITH, JR.
Department of Physiology and
Biophysics and Department of
Psychology, University of
Washington, Seattle

References and Notes

1. S. L. Polyak, The Vertebrate Visual Sys-
tem (Univ. of Chicago Press, Chicago, 1957).

2. J. Rose and C. N. Woolsey, in Biological and

Biochemical Bases of Behavior, H. F. Har-

low and C. N. Woolsey, Eds. (Univ. of Wis—

consin Press, Madison, 1958), p. 127.

June L. De Vito and O. A. Smith, Jr., J.

Comp. Neurol. 111, 261 (1959).

S. A. Talbot, Federation Proc. 1, 84 (1942).

W. C. Halstead, A. E. Walker, P. C. Bucy,

Arch. Ophthalmol. 24, 948 (1940).

M. Glickstein, H. Arora, R. W. Sperry, J.

Comp. Physiol. Psychol. 56, 11 (1963).

S. Imamura, Arch. Ges. Physiol. 100, 495

(1903).

K. Yoshimura, tbid. 129, 425 (1909).

R. E. Myers, Brain 79, 358 (1956).

10. J. L. de C. Downer, Federation Proc. 17,
37 (1958).

11. R. W. Sperry, Anat. Record 131, 297 (1958).

12. This study was supported in part by USPHS
grant MH 06722-02.

May 1964 I

5”

>199.“

>090

1

t—l

Thermal Inactivation of the Primer in DNA-Dependent
Synthesis of RNA in Animal Tissue

Abstract. An enzyme preparation obtained from bovine lymphosarcoma tissue
catalyzes the DNA-dependent synthesis of RNA. Native DNA is a more ef-
ficient primer in the reaction than heat-denatured DNA.

The RNA polymerase of chicken em-
bryos, like the bacterial enzyme, is sol-
uble, and it is also dependent on the
addition of DNA for maximal activity;
the added DNA inﬂuences the rates at
which each of the four ribonucleotides
are incorporated (I).

In order to investigate further DNA-
.dependent RNA synthesis in animal
tissues, we have studied the reaction
with a soluble enzyme preparation ob-
tained from bovine lymphosarcoma tis-
sue (2). With this enzyme preparation,
the synthesis of RNA requires DNA
and all four ribonucleoside triphos-
phates. For example, in an experiment
similar to that outlined in Table 1, 0.19
mpmole of uridylic acid was incorpo-
rated into an acid-insoluble form.
When calf thymus DNA or the three
unlabeled ribonucleoside triphosphates
were omitted, less than 0.02 mpmole of
uridylic acid was incorporated. In this
experiment the reaction was inhibited
95 percent by the addition of 20 lug of
ribonuclease, 84 percent by 20 pg of
deoxyribonuclease, and 89 percent by
5 pg of actinomycin D.

Since DNA, unless it has been de-
natured, is a poor primer for DNA
polymerase from calf thymus (3), na-

tive and heattdenatured DNA were ,

compared as primers of the lymphosar-
coma RNA polymerase. As shown in
Table 1, native DNA is a better, primer
than heat-denatured DNA. The heat-
denatured calf thymus DNA is still
able to prime the RNA polymerase

from Escherichia coli, as has been re-
ported (4). It is not considered likely
that this primer speciﬁcity is the result
of a nuclease preferentially degrading
heat-denatured DNA; for, when the
two enzymes are incubated together,

Table 1. Comparison of native and heat-
denatured DNA as primers for RNA syn-
thesis. The complete reaction mixture (0.5
ml) contained: 80 MM a-P32-UTP (10) (3.1
X 106 count/min per umole); 160 MM each
of CTP, GTP, and ATP; 8 mM MgCL2;
4 mM MnClg; 2 mM 2-mercaptoethanol; 50
mM tris-maleate buffer at pH 8.0; DNA and
enzyme. .The amounts of DNA added, ex-
pressed as millimicromoles of deoxynucle-
otides, were: calf thymus DNA, 72; H.
inﬂuenzae, 60 (5). The DNA preparations
were denatured by heating at 100°C for 4
minutes followed by cooling in an ice bath.
The amounts of enzyme protein added were,
lymphosarcoma polymerase, 530 Mg; E. coli
polymerase, puriﬁed through the ﬁrst am-
monium sulfate step of procedure B (6), 49
ug. After incubation for 20 minutes at
38°C, the reaction was terminated by the
addition of 0.2 ml of 7 percent perchloric
acid, albumin (0.5 mg) was added, and the
acidiﬁed mixture was centrifuged. The pre-
cipitate was washed twice with 3-ml portions
of 1 percent perchloric acid, dissolved in
1.5 ml of 0.2N NH40H, decanted into metal
planchets, and dried; the radioactivity was

 

 

 

 

measured in a windowless Geiger-Muller
counter.
Uridylic acid incorporated
. . Lympho- E. coli
COHdlthllS? sarcoma p oly— Both
polymerase merase enzymes

Omit DNA < 0.01 0.08
Calf thymus DNA 0.56 0.68 1.39
Calf thymus DNA,

heat-denatured 0.05 0.46 0.39
H. inﬂuenzae DNA 0.19 0.46
H. influenzae DNA,

heat-denatured 0.01 0.09

161

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

either with native or heat-denatured
calf thymus DNA, the effect is roughly
additive. In addition, prior incubation
of either native or heat—denatured calf
thymus DNA with lymphosarcoma
RNA polymerase does not alter the
capacity of the DNA to function as
primer for the E. coli RNA polymerase.

This property is not unique to the
lymphosarcoma polymerase, as is in-
dicated by experiments with the chicken
embryo RNA polymerase (I). With a
reaction mixture containing native calf
thymus DNA, 0.152 mpmole of uri-
dylic acid was incorporated into RNA
as compared to 0.011 mpmole when
heat-denatured DNA was substituted
for native DNA. The incorporation in
the absence of added DNA was 0.006
mpmole.

Thus, it appears that for RNA syn-
thesis in animal tissues the structural in-
tegrity of native DNA is required. The
results reported for the DNA-dependent
synthesis of RNA in bacterial systems
are not inconsistent. Although dena-
tured DNA primes bacterial RNA poly-
merase, the priming efﬁciency is reduced
compared with that of native DNA
(4, 7). And, signiﬁcantly, biologically
active RNA (that is, RNA which can
stimulate amino acid incorporation into
protein) has been synthesized only in
a reaction primed by native DNA (8).

For DNA synthesis, the priming re-
quirements are reversed. The DNA
polymerase from calf thymus preferen-
tially utilizes denatured DNA (3), and
though DNA polymerase obtained from
E. coli and Bacillus subtilis can utilize
native DNA as primers, limited enzy-

matic degradation or heat denaturation
can improve the priming efﬁciency of
the DNA (9). .
Taken together, these results in Vitro
suggest that, in vivo, while DNA may
have to be altered in some way before
DNA synthesis (replication) can occur,
RNA synthesis (transcription) may re-
quire the rigid secondary structure of
native DNA (10).
J. J. FURTH
PATRICIA LOH
Department of Pathology, University
of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia

References and Notes

1. J. J. Furth and P. Loh, Biochem. Biophys.
Res. Commun. 13, 100 (1963).

2. We thank Dr. Robert Marshak of the
Veterinary School of this institution for the
bovine lymphosarcoma tissue, obtained from
tumor-bearing animals immediately after the
animal was killed. The enzyme preparation
used was obtained essentially as described
for the chicken embryo polymerase (see I).

. F. J. Bollum, J. Biol. Chem. 234, 2733 (1959).

.J. Hurwitz, J. J. Furth, M. Anders. A.
Evans, ibid. 237, 3752 (1962).

5. DNA from H. inﬂuenzae, active in trans-
formation, was a gift of Dr. Sol Goodgal of
the department of microbiology of this in-
stitution.

6. J. J. Furth, J. Hurwitz, M. Anders, J. Biol.
Chem. 237, 2611 (1962).

7. M. Chamberlin and P. Berg, Proc. Natl.
Acad. Sci. U.S. 48, 81 (1962); J. S. Krakow
and S. Ochoa, ibid. 49, 88 (1963); C. F. Fox
and S. B. Weiss, J. Biol. Chem. 239, 175
(1964); A. Stevens and J. Henry, ibid.,
p. 196.

8. W. B. Wood and P. Berg, Proc. Natl. Acad.
Sci. U.S. 48, 94 (1962); J. J. Furth, E.
Hilberman, J. Hurwitz, unpublished observa-
tions.

9. C. C. Richardson, C. L. Schildkraut, H. V.
Aposhian, A. Kornberg, J. Biol. Chem. 239.
222 (1964); T. Okazaki and A. Kornberg,
ibid., p. 259.

10. Abbreviations: ATP, GTP, UTP, CTP, 5’-
triphosphates of adenosine, guanosine, uridine,
and cytidine.

11. This investigation was supported by a grant
(GM-10390-01), and a research career de—
velopment award (GM-K3-12,888) to J.J.F.,
from NIH.

23 March 1964

#03

Persistence of Neorickettsiae helminthoeca in an
Endoparasite of the Paciﬁc Salmon

Abstract. Silver salmon (Oncorhynchus kisutch) infected with the metacercariae
of the “salmon poisoning” ﬂuke (Nanophyetus salmincola) remain infected after
they have migrated to sea. Metacercariae remain viable in such salmon for at
least 331/2 months. These metacercariae are capable of transmitting salmon
disease (Neorickettsiae helminthoeca) to susceptible dogs throughout this period.

Nanophyetus salmincola, an intesti-
nal ﬂuke, is a vector and reservoir of
Neorickettsiae helminthoeca (I), the
etiological agent of “salmon (poison-
ing) disease” in dogs, foxes and coy-
otes.

It has been assumed that the metacer-
cariae are “resorbed” by the salmon
on their migration to the Paciﬁc Ocean
(2). The disappearance of the meta-

162

 

cercariae was assumed because of the
lack of evidence of infection in ocean-
caught salmon during these early in-
vestigations. Philip (3), after reviewing
available literature, in 1955 reported
“The implication is that cleansing must
occur during the years that they [the
salmon] are resident in salt water.” Con-
versely, Bennington and Pratt (4) felt
that “they were undoubtedly present

since some [metacercariae] were recov-
ered from such a salmon reportedly tak-
en at sea.”

Knowledge concerning the metacer-

carial persistence of Neorickettsiae
helminthoeca was necessary for our
study of the natural history of the dis-
ease. The general plan of the experi-
ment was to collect highly parasitized
ﬁsh from an enzootic area (Elokomin
Salmon Hatchery near the mouth of
the Columbia River) and transport
them to a location where the ﬁsh could
be maintained in salt water in an area
free of infected ﬁsh and free of the
snail host. The Bowman’s Bay Marine
Biological Station near Anacortes,
Washington, provided a location which
met the requirements, and silver sal-
mon (Oncorhym-lms kisutch) from the
Elokomin hatchery were transported to
the salt water ponds at the Bowman’s
Bay Station on 8 March 1958.

To determine the persistence of the
metacercariae and of the Neorickettsiae
helminthoeca within them, infected ﬁsh
kidneys were fed to ﬁve dogs at the
beginning of the experiment on 8
March 1958. All these dogs became
sick and showed signs typical of sal-
mon (poisoning) disease (5) and died.
Adult ﬂukes were demonstrated in the
duodenum, and intracellular rickettsia
bodies, as described by Cordy and Gor-
ham (6), were demonstrated in stained
sections of the lymph-nodes in each
instance. These captive, salt-water ﬁsh
were examined at approximately yearly
intervals for viable metacercariae. Af-
ter periods of 12, 24, and 331/2
months from the beginning of the ex-
periment, infected kidneys from these
ﬁsh were fed to dogs to determine the
infectivity of the metacercariae and to
ﬁnd out if such metacercariae contained
Neorickettsiae helminthoeca. At the
end of each period, the infectivity Wes
tested in ﬁve dogs, 15 being used. In
all. All 15 dogs showed the typlcal
signs of salmon (poisoning) disease and
died. Necropsy revealed lesions char-
acteristic of gross salmon disease; m1-
croscopic examination revealed the pres-
ence of the adult ﬂukes and eggs in the
small intestine. The presence of CY’EO‘
plasmic rickettsial bodies in the retlc-
ulo-endothelial cells of lymph nodes
was conﬁrmed by histopathological eX-
amination. The possibility that the 531‘
mon had become infected with ﬂUkeS
after they had been transported to BOW“
man’s Bay Station was excluded by
holding ﬂuke-free control silver salmor1
under the same conditions as the ex-

SCIENCE. VOL- 145

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

perimental salmon. Two control dogs
were fed noninfected kidneys at 12,
24, and 331/2 months. These dogs re-
mained asymptomatic for at least 60
days. The same dogs were later proved
susceptible to salmon disease when fed
infected ﬁsh from the Elokomin
River.

The persistence of a sub-microscopic
disease agent in an endoparasite has
been studied by Shope (7) who re-
ported that swine inﬂuenza virus per-
sisted for at least 2 years in the im-
mature lungworms of swine.

Recently, we recovered a Chinook
salmon (Oncorhynchus tshawytscha)
returning to the Elokomin River of
Washington with “sea lice” still at-
tached. (These lice drop off soon after
the salmon return to fresh water). This
ﬁsh was marked at the Elokomin River
Hatchery and was 5 years of age; pre-
sumably, it was returning after having
spent 4 years in the ocean. Viable
metacercariae were seen in the kidneys
of this ﬁsh on microscopic examina-
tion. The kidneys of the ﬁsh were fed
to a susceptible dog which became sick
and died of typical salmon disease.
Adult ﬂukes capable of transmitting
rickettsiae were demonstrated on post-
mortem examination. It was unlikely
that this ﬁsh was reinfected on its re-
turn migration because the presence of
“sea lice” indicates recent return from
salt water and it is known that the
cercariae have to remain in the ﬁsh
tissue for approximately 10 days before
they become infective for the dog.

We conclude that the metacercariae
of Nanophyetus salmincola containing
Neorickettsiae helmintlzoeca can persist
for at least 331/2 months in ﬁsh in
sea water.

R. KEITH FARRELL
United States Department of
Agriculture, Animal Disease and Para-
Site Research Division, Fur Animal
Disease Laboratory, Washington
State University, Pullman
MARILYN A. LLOYDi‘
Washington State Department of Game,
Olympia
BRIAN EARP‘l‘
Washington State Department of
Fisheries, Olynqpia

References and Notes

1'1}? R- Cordy and J. R. Gorham, Am. J.
Hathol. 26, 617 (1950); C. B. Philip, W. J.
Midlow. L. E. Hughes, Proc. Intern. Cong.
throblol., 6th, Rome 4, 70 (1953).

' J‘ E- Donham, B. T. Simms, F. W. Miller,
B‘ Tm. .Vet. Med. Assoc. 68, 701 (1926);
A. ' SlmmS, C. R. Donham, J. N. Shaw,

th’”; J- Hyg. 13, 363 (1931); c. R. Donham,

C6318, Oregon State College (1928).

' 3- Philip. J. Parasitol. 41, 125 (1955).

10 JULY 1964

4. E. Bennington and
(1960).

5. R. K. Farrell, R. L. Ott, J. R. Gorham,
J. Am. Vet. Med. Assoc. 127, 241 (1955).

6. D. R. Cordy and J. R. Gorham, Am. J.
Pathol. 26, 617 (1950).

7. R. E. Shope, J. Exptl. Med. 74, 41 (1941).

8. Supported in part by grant AI—03606 from

I. Pratt, ibid. 46, 91

the Division of Research Grants, National
Institutes of Health.
* Present address: Sacred Heart Hospital,

Spokane, Wash.
T Present address: J. R. Clark Company, Salt
Lake City, Utah.

25 March 1964 l

Tetracycline Fluorescence in Permeability Studies of
Membranes around Intracellular Parasites

Abstract. Certain protozoa, bacteria, and viruses when phago'cytosed by host
cells become surrounded by an intracytoplasmic boundary. This membrane pre-
vents the ﬂuorescent antibiotic tetracycline from entering the parasites when it is
added to the medium, since they show no ﬂuorescence, whereas extracellular
parasites are immediately visible. As soon as the host cell dies, the intracellular
parasites also become visible. This indicates that the boundary probably is of
host origin. This phenomenon provides a means for selective permeability studies
of such boundaries. A similar exclusion of tetracycline from certain extracellular
parasites is seen in the presence of whole serum.

It was reported previously (I) that
tetracycline is selectively accumulated
by mitochondria of living cells in tissue
culture and in Vivo, but that nuclei,
vacuoles, interparticulate cytoplasm,
and cell boundaries appear dark when
the tetracycline distribution is observed
by ﬂuorescence microscopy. This indi-
cates that of the four boundaries in-
volved, two are very permeable (cell
and mitochondrial membrane) and two
are slightly permeable (nuclear and vac-
uolar membrane) to the drug.

For the study of intracellular para-
sites reported herein, host cells were
allowed to attach to coverslips in small
petri dishes containing the appropriate
medium. After the cells adhered, a sus-
pension of parasites was added so that
phagocytosis could take place. Five
minutes before observation a tetra-
cycline solution, adjusted to pH 7
(ﬁnal concentration, 50 to 200 pg/ ml),
was added. The coverslip was then ap-
plied to a tissue culture chamber or
placed on a slide and observed under
a microscope (2). Photomicrographs
were made of the same preparation; ﬁrst
by phase contrast to localize the para-
sites, then by ﬂuorescence microscopy
to determine whether the parasites
ﬂuoresced. In each case it was shown
that the extracellular parasites or the
internal parasites in moribund host cells
did ﬂuoresce.

The results obtained in typical prep-
arations are illustrated in Figs. 1 to 5.
Inclusion Blen‘norrhea (3) was used
as a representative large, complex virus,
Salmonella typhosa (strain Ty 2) as a
bacterium capable of intracellular mul-
tiplication, Escherichia coli, strain S,
and Bacillus cereus (recently isolated)

as representatives, of Gram-negative and
Gram-positive bacteria, which could

be stained with tetracycline and were
capable of being phagocytosed, and
T oxoplasma gondii (3) as an intracel-
lular protozoan.

Figure 1, A and B, show human syn-
ovial cells, infected with inclusion Blen-
norrhea virus suspended in Eagle’s

 

Fig. 1. Photomicrographs of Blennorrhea
in living human synovial cells, shown (A)
by phase contrast, and (B) after staining
with ﬂuorescent tetracycline; (C) and (D)
show the same, but moribund cells. I,
Intracellular inclusion body; N, nucleus.

163

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Fig. 2. Salmonella typhosa. in living mouse
L cells, shown (A) by phase contrast, and
(B) by tetracycline ﬂuorescence. V, Vac-
uole with I, intracellular bacteria; E, extra-
cellular bacteria; M, mitochondria.

 

Fig. 3. Escherichia coli in living guinea
pig phagocytes, shown (A) by phase con-
trast, and (B) by tetracycline ﬂuorescence;
(C) and (D) show the same, but mori-
bund cells; I, E, and V, as in Fig. 2.

 

Fig. 4. Bacillus cereus in living and mori-
bund guinea pig phagocytes, shown (A)
by phase contrast, and (B) by tetracycline
ﬂuorescence; V, vacuole with bacterium in
living cell, 1, vacuole with bacteria in
moribund cell, E, extracellular bacteria.

    

Fig. 5. Toxoplasma gondii in living mouse
phagocytes, shown (A) by phase con-
trast, and (B) by tetracycline ﬂuorescence;
I, E, and V, as in Fig. 2.

164

 

medium No. 2, with 10 percent horse
serum and 5 percent glucose (3). The
typical virus inclusion body (I) showed
vigorous Brownian movement. In Fig.
1B, neither the nuclei (N) nor the in-
clusion body (I) showed ﬂuorescence,
whereas the round mitochondria of the
host cell showed clear yellow ﬂuores—
cence. In Fig. 1, C and D, a similar
culture is shown, moribund as the re-
sult of being in contact with distilled
water for 5 minutes. The cells were
swollen and the nuclei rounded, and an
inclusion body (I) with decreased
Brownian movement now showed clear
ﬂuorescence. This suggested that al-
though the inclusion body contained
material which could be stained with
tetracycline, it was not stained while
surrounded by a healthy host mem—
brane. Litwin (4) states that he could
not observe a membrane surrounding
trachoma virus particles 30 hours after
infection. However, such a membrane
may be demonstrable by the use of
tetracycline.

In Fig. 2, mouse L cells are shown
in Eagle’s medium with 5 percent horse
serum 30 minutes after they were ex-
posed to a suspension of S. typhosa.
Fluorescence microscopy indicates the
presence of a tetracycline-excluding
boundary about all intracellular bac-
teria. By contrast, the extracellular bac-
teria are ﬂuorescent. A closely adherent
boundary, observed occasionally, may
explain reports that bacteria are some-
times seen free in the cytoplasm. Elec-
tron microscope studies have also
shown the presence of boundaries
around intracellular bacteria in ﬁxed
preparations (5). The assertion that
these boundaries represent the host cell
boundary (plasma membrane) (6)
does not correspond with our observa—
tions ( I ) that the latter is permeable
to tetracycline in either direction. How—
ever, Goodman and Moore (6) men-
tion that subsequent to engulfment of
the parasites considerable changes
seem to occur in this membrane.

In Fig. 3, guinea pig phagocytes from
peritoneal washings were suspended in
Eagle’s medium and exposed to a sus-
pension of E. coli for 30 to 60 minutes
at. 37°C. By phase microsc0py (Fig.
3A) the intracellular bacteria (1), in
a vacuole (V), as well as extracellular
bacteria (E), are Visible. Under ﬂuores-
cence microscopy (Fig. 33) only the
extracellular bacteria are visible. How-
ever, in swollen, dying cells in which
vacuoles are forming (Fig. 3, C and D)
both. groups are visible. Evidently, a
barrler operating only in the living

host cell prevented the uptake of tetra-
cycline by the intracellular bacteria. In
Fig. 4, A and B, the same phenomena
are shown with B. cereus.

In Fig. 5, an intracellular and extra-
cellular protozoan Toxoplasma gondii,
maintained in mice, is shown in mouse
phagocytes, suspended in phosphate-
buﬁered saline. Under ﬂuorescence mi—
crosc0py only two vacuoles (V) can
be seen at the locus of the intracellular
parasites. The boundary is so closely
adherent to the parasite that it cannot
be recognized under the phase micro-
scope. Under the ﬂuorescence micro-
scope this boundary is visible, presum-
ably due to the presence of mitochon-
drial elements of the host.

When the exposure to tetracycline
was prolonged. some of the parasites
were phagocytosed after they had taken
up tetracycline. They were then visible
under the ﬂuorescence microscope.
This, as well as the mitochondrial ﬂuo-
rescence, indicated that the intracellular
localization of the parasites does not
cause the ﬂuorescence of tetracycline
to be obscured because of absorption
of the activating radiation by the sur-
rounding medium.

A further study on the nature of
boundaries similar to those described
above was possible when it was ob-
served that Toxoplasma in 100 percent
mouse serum. in the presence of 100
pg of tetracycline per milliliter was in-
visible. as was this parasite in the in-
tracellular environment. Similarly, Tryp-
anosoma lewisi was inViSible in rat
serum, but ﬂuorescent when kept in
saline. The eﬂects of variation in the
external medium. including the presence
of speciﬁc antibodies. on the degree of
ﬂuorescence have been studied in more

detail with T. lewisi, and have
been reported brieﬂy elsewhere (7)-

H. G. DU BUY

F. RILEY

J. L. SHOWACREi‘
Laboratory of Biology of Viruses,
National Institute of Allergy and
Infectious Diseases. National
Institutes of Health.
Bethesda. Maryland 20014
References and Notes

1. H. G. du Buy and J. L. Show
133. 196 (1961).

acre, Science

2. J. L. Showacre. H. E. Hopps. H G- $9163”,
J. E. Smadel. J. Immunol. 87. 153 (M dical
3. We thank H. R. Dressler. Naval e

Md,, for supply'

a cultures. an
e Health,

ondii

Research Institute. Bethesda,
ing us with the Blennorrh
M. N. Lunde. National Institutes of
Bethesda. Md.. for the Toxoplasma g

cultures. 145 (1962)-

. J. Litwin, Ann. N.Y. Acad. Sci. 98,

. G. B. Chapman. J. H. Hanks, J H' Wallace.
J. Bacteriol. 77, 205 (1959): R. W
D. DePetris.
22. 618 (1963): G. R. Pearson. 13- '

SCIENCE, VOL- 145

Uﬁ-h

1. Kessel.

' - n Proc.
J. Karlsbad, Federlztlgkeeman’

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

W. D. Hines, J. Bacteriol. 86, 1123 (1963),

6. J. C. Goodman and R. E. Moore, J. Bacteriol,
71, 547 (1956): . ibid. 72, 736 (1956);
E. Essner, J. Biophys. Biochem. Cytol. 7, 329
(1960). ' . p

7. H. G. du Buy. C. Greenblatt, D. mercome,
J. Parasitol. 49, Sect. 11, 21 (1963),

* Present address: University of Colorado,
School of Medicine, Denver.

18 May 1964

 

Toxic Effect of. Pseudomonas tabaci
on RNA Metabolism in Tobacco
and Its Counteraction by Kinetin

Abstract. Treatment of intact tobacco
leaves with toxin—containing culture
ﬁltrates of Pseudomonas tabaci mark-
edly reduced the ribonucleic acid con-
tent of the leaves. The decrease was
counteracted by spraying the leaves
with 10‘4M kinetin. Simultaneously
with the decrease in RNA, the ribo—
nuclease activity of extracts from tis—
sues treated with toxin increased. Ex-
periments on the effect of kinetin on
the ribonuclease activity of toxin—treated
tissues gave no consistent results.

The toxin of Pseudomonas tabaci is
a structural analogue of methionine (I).
It has been shown by Braun in model
experiments with Chlo/‘ella vulgaris that,
as expected, the effect of the toxin can
be counteracted by methionine. How-
ever, methionine failed to antagonize
the toxin in tobacco (2). Therefore,
further studies on the mode of action
of the wildﬁre toxin seemed necessary.
To this end, we investigated the effect
of toxin-containing ﬁltrates of P. tabaci
cultures on the metabolism of the host.
It has been found (3) that the amount
of soluble proteins decreases upon treat-
ment of the host tissues with the toxin.

Table 1. RNA content of tobacco half-leaves
treated with toxin-containing culture ﬁltrate
0f Pseudomonas tabaci and with nutrient
medlum, respectively.

 

 

RNA content (mg/g fresh wt.)

 

 

Expt.
No. Treated with Treated with
medium ﬁltrate
1 1.54 0.83
2 1.20 0.69
3 1.35 0.95

 

fable 2. Effect of kinetin on the RNA con-
ent of tobacco half-leaves treated with toxin-

c . .
Ignctalnlng culture ﬁltrate of Pseudomonas
c1.

 

RNA content (mg/ g fresh wt.)

 

 

EXpt,
N0. Effect of Effect of
water 10-4M kinetin
; 1.00 1.54
3 1.16 1.60
0.76 0.95

 

10 JULY 1964

The protein concentration could be
maintained at the level of the control
by spraying toxin-treated leaves with
kinetin (3). In View of the well known
effect of kinetin on RNA metabolism
(4-6) and because of the close connec-
tion between protein and RNA metab—
olism, we investigated the influence
of toxin-containing culture ﬁltrates on
the RNA content of host tissues.

Intact half-leaves of Nicotiana
tabacum “White Burley” plants were
injected with toxin-containing ﬁltrates
of P. tabaci cultures. Control half-leaves
were injected with Czapek’s medium.
After an incubation period of 4 to 5
days under ordinary greenhouse condi—
tions disks were punched from the leaves
for spectrophotometric determination of
RNA content and ribonuclease activity.
In the determination of RNA the pro-
cedure described by Osborne (5) was
followed. The method adopted for the
determination of ribonuclease activity
was based on the principles described
by McDonald (7) and Tuve and Anﬁn—
sen (8). Tissue extracts corresponding to
10 mg of fresh weight per milliliter
were incubated in the presence of 0.1M
acetate buffer, pH 5.0, with yeast RNA
in a ﬁnal concentration of 0.1 percent
at 37°C for 30 minutes. The reaction
was stopped by McFadyen’s reagent,
the reaction mixture was centrifuged,
and after ﬁve-fold dilution of the su-
pernatant the optical density was de-
termined at 260 mu. One enzyme unit
corresponded to an increase in optical
density of 0.010 over the zero time
control (8).

Treatment of tobacco leaves with
culture ﬁltrates of the pathogen grown
for 48 hours in Czapek’s medium re-
sulted in a decrease in RNA content
(Table 1). This clearly indicates that
the toxin damages the RNA metabol-
ism of the host.

Kinetin counteracts the breakdown
of RNA in detached leaves (5). There—
fore, experiments were conducted to
ﬁnd out whether or not the toxin-in—
duced damage to RNA metabolism can
also be counteracted by kinetin. Intact
whole leaves were injected with culture
ﬁltrates of P. tabaci. Half-leaves
were sprayed three times in 24-hour
intervals with 10‘4M kinetin; controls
were sprayed with water. The toxin-
induced decrease of RNA was inhibited
in the kinetin-treated half—leaves (Table
2 .

)The regulation of the RNA content
of plants is poorly understood. Al-
though no conclusive evidence has been
presented, it has been suggested repeat-

Table 3. Ribonuclease activity in tobacco half-
leaves treated with toxin-containing culture
ﬁltrate of Pseudomonas tabaci and with nutri-
ent medium, respectively. '

 

Ribonuclease activity (enzyme units)

 

 

Expt.
No. Treated with Treated with
medium ﬁltrate
1 86 156
2 69 132
3 45 66

 

Table 4. Effect of kinetin on the ribonuclease
activity of tobacco half-leaves treated with
toxin—containing culture ﬁltrate of Pseu-
domonas tabaci.

 

Ribonuclease activity (enzyme units)

 

Expt.

 

No. Effect of Effect of
water 104M kinetin
1 63 50
2 33 29
3 52 55

 

edly that ribonuclease may participate
in the regulatory process. Therefore, the
ribonuclease activity of extracts from
half-leaves treated with toxin and
from control half—leaves was compared.
Ribonuclease activity was increased
by about 100 percent in the tissues
treated with culture ﬁltrate (Table 3).
Attempts to counteract by kinetin the
toxin-induced increase in ribonuclease
activity gave no consistent results
(Table 4), in contrast to the highly re-
producible effect of kinetin on the
concentration of RNA. Thus, there is
no clear-cut correlation between the
ribonuclease activity of the tissue ex-
tracts and their RNA content.

The evidence presented above indi—
cates that an important aspect of the
mode of action of the wildﬁre toxin is
damage to the RNA metabolism of the
host. The effect is not based on the
parasitically induced increase in ribo-
nuclease activity.

L. LOVREKOVICH
Z. KLEMENT
G. L. FARKAS
Research Institute for Plant
Protection, Budapest, Hungary

References and Notes

1. D. W. Woolley, R. B. Pringle, A. C. Braun,
J. Biol. Chem. 197, 409 (1952); D. W. Wool-
ley, G. Schaffner, A. C. Braun, ibid. 215, 485
(1955).

. A. C. Braun, Phytopathology 45, 659 (1955).

L. Lovrekovich and G. L. Farkas, Nature 198,

710 (1963); G. L. Farkas, L. Lovrekovich,

Phytopathol. Z. 47, 391 (1963).

R. Wollgiehn, Flora (Jena) 151, 411 (1961).

D. J. Osborne, Plant Physiol. 37, 595 (1962).

M. Sugiura, K. Umemura, Y. Oota, Physio].

Plantarum 15, 457 (1962).

M. R. McDonald, in Methods in Enzymology,

S. P. Colowick and N. 0. Kaplan Eds. (Aca-

demic Press, New York, 1955), vol. 2, p. 427.

8. T. W. Tuve and C. B. Anﬁnsen, J. Biol.
Chem. 235, 3437 (1960).

May 1964

(J-JN

>1 9‘3"?

60

165

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Indoleacetic Acid Synthesis by
Polyp-henols in the Extraction of
Pinus Phloem and Cambial Tissue

Abstract. Indoleacetic acid may be
formed by polyphenol oxidation of
tryptophan during extraction of plant
tissue with aqueous or organic solvents.
Polyphenoloxidase promotes the con-
version, but studies with heat-inacti-
vated tissue indicate that the reaction
can proceed without enzymes.

Indoleacetic acid can be produced
from naturally occurring tryptophan
and polyphenols in plant tissue when
they are mixed by cell disruption during
extraction. It is probable that the auxin
is produced as an artifact in ether ex—
tracts of Pinus phloem and cambial
material.

Gordon and Paleg (I) showed that
indoleacetic acid can be formed in Vitro
from tryptophan and catechol or other
o-dihydroxy phenols. Tryptophan is oxi-
dized by the polyphenols to indolepy-
ruvic acid, which undergoes sponta—
neous oxidation to indoleacetic acid.
The conversion is catalyzed by poly-
phenoloxidase, but can also proceed
without the enzyme, provided that the
pH of the system is high enough to al-
low sufﬁcient autoxidation of the poly-
phenols.

Three experiments were designed to
examine the possibility of indoleacetic
acid synthesis during extraction. Phloem
and cambial tissues of Pinus sylvestris,
P. resinosa, and P. taeda were used.

The yield of indoleacetic acid ex—
tracted in the presence of ascorbic
acid was compared with the yield ob-
tained at basic pH. Ascorbic acid in-
hibits the formation of quinones which
are supposed to complete the oxidation
of tryptophan, while basic conditions
promote their formation ( I ). Thus,
lower yields of indoleacetic acid in the
presence of ascorbic acid than in an
alkaline-buffered system may be ex-
plained by polyphenol oxidation of
naturally occurring tryptophan.

Tissue was removed from fresh stem
bolts, weighed, and placed into either
0.2M ascorbic acid or tris buffer at
pH 9.0. The suspended material was
homogenized for 2 minutes in a blender
and strained through cheesecloth. The
liquid so obtained was centrifuged to
remove fragments of the cell walls. The
acid fraction of the supernatant was
recovered by bicarbonate partitioning
(2), and placed on a paper strip for
chromatographic partitioning with a

166

mixture of isopropanol, ammonia, and
water as the solvent. Determination of
the indoleacetic acid fractions were
made colorimetrically (I). The mean
yield of indoleacetic acid in three
paired extractions was 0.13 pg per gram
of fresh tissue in the presence of ascor-
bic acid. In the high pH treatment,
the mean yield was 0.26 pg of indole-
acetic acid per gram of fresh tissue. In
addition to its action as a reducing
agent, ascorbic acid inhibits autoxida-
tion of polyphenols by its buffering
action at about pH 2.8.

Extracts from heat-inactivated tissue
were compared with those of untreated
tissue to test the effect of polyphenol-
oXidase on the synthesis of indoleacetic
acid. To inactivate enzymes, stem bolts
were submerged in boiling water for 5
minutes before excision of the tissue.
Paired tissue samples from heat-treated
and untreated bolts were extracted in
ice cold ether in a blender for 2 min-
utes. The extract was ﬁltered and par—
titioned with bicarbonate (2) to recover
the acid fraction. After further parti-
tioning with paper chromatography, the
indoleacetic acid was estimated colori-
metrically (I).

The mean yield of two heat—
treated samples was 0.09 lag of in-

 

 

Fig. 1. A, Paper chromatogram of nonra—
dioactive indoleacetic acid and tryptophan
developed in isopropanol, acetic acid, and
water. B, Autoradiogram of the acid frac-
tlon of an ether extract of untreated tissue
to which C14-tryptophan has been added.
Same solvent as in A. C, Same as B, ex-
cept that the tissue was heat treated. D,
Chromatogram of nonradioactive indole-
acetic acid and tryptophan, developed in
isopropanol, ammonia, and water. E,
Autoradiogram of the whole ether extract
of untreated tissue, Clt-tryptophan added.

doleacetic acid per gram of fresh tissue;
the yield of untreated tissue was 021
Mg per gram of fresh tissue. The low-
ered yield with heat treatment was
similar to the lowered yield with ascor-
bic acid. Apparently, conditions affect-
ing the enzyme or affecting the oxida-
tion and reduction of polyphenols af-
feet the yield of indoleacetic acid.

The synthetic system was further
tested by adding C”-tryptophan to both
fresh and heat-treated tissue before
extraction. Plugs 1.3 cm in diameter
were removed from the main stem of
a standing P. sylvestris tree; phloem
and cambial derivatives were excised.
Half of the individual samples were '
heated in boiling water for 5 minutes.
Each sample was ground in a mortar
with 2 m1 of ether. 1 “C of CM-trypto-
phan in 1 ml of 80 percent ethanol, and
a little sand. The macerated tissue sus-
pension was kept in a freezer for 2
hours. The ether was ﬁltered off and
partitioned with bicarbonate (2). A
paper chromatogram of the acid frac-
tion was developed in a mixture of
isopropanol, acetic acid, and water
(4: l : 1), a solvent known to give a
wide separation between tryptophan
and indoleacetic acid. Strips were auto-
radiographed after development (Fig.
1, left).

In a similar test, a small sample of
fresh phloem material was extracted
with ether in the presence of 1.5 ,uc
of C”-tryptophan. In this case, the
ether extract was not partitioned, but
the whole extract was condensed, chro-
matographed, and autoradiographed
(Fig. 1, right).

Bioassays of the strips used for autO-
radiography were not made; however,
the zones containing spots identiﬁed as
indoleacetic acid have the same rate
of movement on the paper as those ex—
hibiting growth activity in other tests
of pine phloem extracts. They also cor-
respond to the rate of movement of
authentic indoleacetic acid run concur—
rently and tested with standard indole
reagents. Regardless of whether or not
the zones assumed to be indoleacetlc
acid are indeed that, the chromatogl’ams
show that free tryptOphan is altered
by the tissue constituents.

The results of the three experiments
taken together strongly Suggest the
Operation of the polyphenol system 1n
these Pinus extracts. We believe that
this conversion may explain the lack
Of agreement between auxin estimateS
based on diffusion and on extractiﬁ’n 0f
Similar tissues, as reported by steeves

SCIENCE. VOL- 145

 

 




 

and Briggs (3). Wightman (.4) and
Dannenburg and Liverman (5) have
reported the conversion of tryptophan
to indoleacetic acid by plant tissue.
Both studies entailed the uptake of C”-
tryptophan and extraction of ground or
homogenized tissue. and the authors
assume a normal enzymic conversion
by an uncharacterized system for syn-
thesizing indoleacetic acid. However,
unless o-dihydroxy phenols are rigor-
ously excluded from tissues, there is
the possibility that these are responsible
for the conversion.

F. W. WHITMORE

R. ZAHNER

School of Natural Resources.
University of lWichiean. Ann Arbor

References and Notes

1. S. A. Gordon and l. (i.
36, 838 (1961).
2. P. Larsen. in Modcrnt' Methoden der Pflanzen-

Paleg, Plant Physiol.

analyse, K. Paech and M. V. Tracey. Eds.
(Springer, Berlin. l955). p. 565.
3. T. A. Steeves and W. R. Briggs. J. Exptl.

Botany 11, 45 (196“).

4.}K VVightntan. CYNt../. Binatu' 40. 689 (1962).

5. W. N. Dannenburg and J. L. Liverman,
Plant Physiol. 32. 263 (1957).
6. This work was supported by NSF grant

G-18492 to one of us (R.Z.). Facilities at
the University of Michigan Botanical Gardens
were kindly provided by A. G. Norman. di-
rector.

20 April 1964

Gamma Globulin: Unmasking of
Hidden Antigenic Sites
on Light Chains

, Abstract. Normal light (L) chains
cleaved from. normal pooled human
gamma globulin contain immunologic
determinants not overtl)~ present in the
native anreduced molecule. These hid-
den determinants are shared with Bence
Jones proteins. Similarly. one of two
Bence Jones proteins contained llnlnll-
nologic determinants which were not

overtly present on the autologous serum
myeloma protein.

Studies of Bence Jones (BJ) PrOtEinS
have shed some light on the basic im-
munological, structural. and genetic
nature of the human immunoglobUIinS-
The two major antigenic grOUPS 0f
Bence Jones proteins have immunologic
Counterparts in the normal populations
:(fid‘i/tﬂi‘, "/1A', and yin-glObuliIJS (I) In
to been, Bence Jones protelnS appear

structurally 1dent1cal to light (L)
islzpeptide chains cleaved from the
(2 Ogous. pathologic serum pr0t€in
to,B3)' Usmg group speciﬁc antibodies

ence Jones protein, we have pre-
10 JULY 1964

viously demonstrated individual speci-
ﬁcity of the immunizing proteins (4).
We have also shown that Bence Jones
proteins of the same group from differ-
ent patients contain certain antigenic
determinants not overtly present in
pooled human 7S y-globulin from nor-
mal individuals. The immunologic dif-
ference between Bence Jones protein
and normal y-globulin might be due
not only to a quantitative change, but
also to a qualitative abnormality re-
sulting from any of the following, either
individually or in combination, (i) pre-
parative artifact; (ii) unmasking of
hidden antigenic sites; or (iii) primary
structural difference that might be ex-
pected of an abnormal protein. The
following studies were undertaken to
investigate the possibility that Bence
Jones proteins contain antigenic deter-
minants present in normal L-chains, but
inaccessible when the L-chain is in-
corporated into the y—globulin molecule.

Bence Jones proteins were typed (5)
and isolated from urine by precipitation
with ammonium sulfate; they were puri-
ﬁed by dialysis, lyophilization (6), and
ﬁnally by Pevikon block electrophoresis
(7). Speciﬁc antibodies to group 1 and
group 2 Bence Jones proteins were pre-
pared in rabbits (4). Serums contain—
ing myeloma proteins were used without
further separation of the protein. Im-
munologic analyses were performed by
double diffusion in agar.

Normal L-chains (8), S (slow) frag—
ments (8), pooled human y—globulin
(9), and two group 1 myeloma serum
proteins were compared by means of
speciﬁc antibody to group 1 Bence
Jones protein (anti—B] 1—40). The S
(slow) fragments were the electropho-
retically slow components of a papain
digest of normal «,z-globulin. One mye-
loma protein was a y2— and the other, a
vii—type. The speciﬁc antibody was ab-
sorbed with 5 mg of lyOphilized normal
serum to remove reactivity that- arises
from contamination of the immunizing
antigen by slight amounts of normal
serum protein. Reactivity was of sig-
niﬁcant degree with the normal L-
chains and the two myeloma proteins,
only slight with the normal y-globulin,
and absent with the S fragment (Fig. 1).
Similar ﬁndings were noted when L-
chains, «II-globulin, S fragments and
group 2 myeloma proteins 0f y2-t3lpe
were compared by testing with a specrﬁc
antibody to group 2 Bence Jones
protein. These studies indicate that
immunologic information present on
normal L-chains may be hidden 01‘

 

Fig. 1. Immunodiffusio-n: Comparison of
L-chains, S fragments, y-globulin, and mye-
loma proteins. Well No. 1, yrs-myeloma
protein 1—40; No. 2, w-myeloma protein
1—41; No. 3, normal S fragments; No. 4,
normal L—chains; No. 5, normal pooled
human 'y-globulin. Center well contained
a speciﬁc group 1 Bence Jones (1—40)
antibody absorbed with 5 mg of lyophi-
lized normal human serum per milliliter.
Protein concentration in the antigen wells
was 0.1 percent.

inaccessible in the S fragments of pa-
pain-split y—globulin or in the undigested
y-globulin molecule.

In View of these ﬁndings two Bence
Jones proteins were compared in an
analogous sense to the autologous ye
myeloma proteins by reactivity with
speciﬁc antibody to group 2 (anti-B]
2—20). In this study (Fig. 2) the anti—
body was absorbed with normal serum
and also with 2 mg of pooled normal
human y-globulin per milliliter. The
immunizing Bence Jones protein (BJ
2—20) and its autologous myeloma se-
rum protein showed an identical degree
of reactivity. Cross-reactivity of the
speciﬁc antibody was noted with a
Bence Jones protein (BJ 2—24) from
another patient; but no reaction was ap—
parent with the myeloma protein from
this patient. These ﬁndings suggest that
BJ 2—24, BJ 2—20 and myeloma protein
2—20 share antigenic determinants
which are not overtly present on the
myeloma protein 2—24. These determi-
nants shared by Bence Jones proteins
of the same group but from diﬁerent
patients represent a common core of
antigenic determinants characteristic of
the major immunologic group (4).
Bence Jones proteins and myeloma pro-
teins from the same patient should
share the same antigens. The discrep-

167

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Fig. 2. Immunodif’fusion. Comparison of
group 2 Bence Jones proteins and autolo-
gous myeloma proteins. Well No. 1, Bence
Jones protein 2—20; No. 2, Bence Jones
protein 2—24; No. 3, w-myeloma protein
2—24; No. 4, normal 'y-globulin; No. 5,
w—myeloma protein 2—20. The center well
contained a speciﬁc group 2 Bence Jones
(2—20) antibody, absorbed with 5 mg
normal serum and 2 mg of y-globulin per
milliliter. Protein concentration in the
antigen wells was 0.1 percent.

ancy between B] 2—24 and its corre-
sponding myeloma protein was detected
when a group-speciﬁc antibody directed
against the Bence Jones protein of an-
other patient was used. It is not clear
whether other antibody systems would
detect this apparent deﬁciency of the
myeloma protein.

Some hereditary characteristics of y-
globulin molecules have been localized
to speciﬁc polypeptide chains of the
parent molecule. Certain of these char-
acteristics, the Inv factors, have been
localized to L-chains and in addition
have been identiﬁed on some Bence
Jones proteins (10). Franklin et al.
(11) have previously reported that
some papain-split A and C fragments
may possess greater degrees of Inv ac-
tivity than are present in the parent y-
globulin molecule. The fact that these
subunits contain genetic information in
greater quantities than the parent mole-
cules raises the possibility whether there
is partial masking of the Inv activity in
the parent y-globulin molecule which
is unmasked when A and C fragments
or L-chains, are split out. It is possible
that hidden antigenic sites made avail-
able when L-chains are cleaved from
normal y-globulin may in some cases
be related to these Inv determinants. If
this is true, we may expect to ﬁnd Inv-
positive Bence Jones proteins and Inv-
negative myeloma proteins in the same
patient. Indeed, Harboe et al. (12)
reported a patient with an Inv-negative

168

 

myeloma protein and an Inv-positive
Bence Jones protein. There may also
be greater degrees of Inv activity on
some Bence Jones proteins when com-
pared to the Inv-positive autologous
myeloma protein.

The fact that hidden antigenic de-
terminants on normal L—chains react
with Bence Jones antibodies suggests
that similar hidden sites are present on

' the excreted Bence Jones protein. It is

of interest that one Bence Jones protein
tested had antigenic determinants which
were absent in the myeloma protein of
the same patient. It is possible that this
Bence Jones protein contains antigenic
determinants which are inaccessible or
hidden when it is fully incorporated into
the myeloma protein as L-chains. The
possibility that the Bence Jones protein
in this case differs structurally from the
autologous myeloma protein has not.
however, been ruled out. Mannik and
Kunkel have previously reported a pa-
tient with an immunologically dissimilar
Bence Jones and myeloma protein (1).
The two proteins in our case were im-
munologically both group 2.

Thus at least a part of the immuno-
logic difference noted between Bence
Jones proteins and normal pooled y-
globulin may be related to the unmask-
ing of hidden antigenic determinants of
L-chains when they are either not
incorporated into or cleaved from the
parent y-globulin molecule. These hid—
den sites are present on Bence Jones
proteins and on normal L-chains.

RALPH L. NACHMAN

RALPH L. ENGLE, JR.
New York Hospital—Cornell
Medical Center, New York

References and Notes

1. M. Mannik and H. G. Kunkel, J. Exptl.
Med. 116, 859 (1962).

2. J. H. Schwartz and G. M. Edelman, ibid.
118, 41 (1963).

3. D. Gross and W. V. Epstein, J. Clin. Invest.
43, 83 (1964).

4. S. Stein, R. Nachman, R. Engle, Jr., Nature
200, 1180 (1963).

5. L. Korngold, G. Van Leeuwen, R. L. Engle.
Jr., Ann. N.Y. Acad. Sci. 101, 203 (1962).

6. R. L. Engle, Jr., K. R. Woods, G. B. Castillo,
J. H. Pert, J. Lab. Clin. Med. 58, 1 (1961).

7. H. J. Muller Eberhard, Scand. J. Clin. Lab.

Invest. 12, 33 (1960).
. Supplied by Mart Mannik and Henry Kunkel.
. Lederle Laboratories, Pearl River, New
York, lot C-763.

10. H. Fudenberg and E. Franklin, Ann. Internal
Med. 58, 171 (1963).

11. E. Franklin, H. Fudenberg, M. Meltzer, D. R.
Stanworth, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S. 48
914 (1962). ’

12. M. Harboe, C. K. Osterland. M. Mannik, H.
G. Kunkel, J. Exptl. Med. 116, 719 (1962).

13. Supported by grant C-1905 from the National
Cancer Institute. and by USPHS training grant
2A-5337 from the National Institute of Ar-
thritis and Metabolic Diseases.

23 April 1964

\000

Gamma Globulin Antigenic Types
Deﬁned by Heavy
Chain Determinants

Abstract. Two populations of im—
munologically distinguishable 7S gam-
ma globulins in normal human serum
and two corresponding antigenic types
of myeloma 7S gamma globulins have
been detected with rabbit antiserums
to proteins associated with pathological
conditions, the diﬁerences being re-
lated to the H-chains of 7S gamma
globulin. No relationship exists with
type I and type II antigenic classiﬁca-
tion, determined by L-chains. Human
serums with various hereditary gamma
globulin (Gm) speciﬁcities contain both
types of 7S gamma globulin.

The 7S y-globulin molecule consists
of two pairs of polypeptide chains, des-
ignated in the human as L- (light) and
H- (heavy) chains. Both normal and
myeloma 7S y-globulins of man have
recently been divided into two molec-
ular classes on the basis of antigenic
and structural characteristics of the L-
chains and their counterparts, the uri-
nary Bence Jones proteins (1). Hither-
to, the only evidence for differences in
the H-chains (2) has been in the nature
of the Gm y—globulin genetic factors
localized in these chains (3). In the
present work two new immunological
types of normal and pathological 7S
y-globulins have been deﬁned through
determinants localized in the H—chains.
The classiﬁcation is done through use
of antiserums prepared against the re.
cently discovered proteins excreted in a
lymphoma-like disorder described by
Franklin et al. (4). In this disease the
abnormal proteins are related to the H—
chain of 7S y-globulin. They are of low
molecular weight (53,000), are antl-
genically and structurally similar to- the
papain-produced F (fast) fragment 0f
7S y-globulin. and are wholly dissimilar
to Bence Jones proteins (5).

The proteins were isolated by pre-
cipitation with ammonium sulfate from
the urines of the patient Cr described
by Franklin et al. (4.), and of the pa-
tient Zu described by Osserman and
Takatsuki (6). Comparative mapping
of the peptides of these two proteins
and of the F (fast) fragment 0f 7S
y—globulin demonstrated the presence
0f some twenty peptides in commOIL
there were also differences between the
Cr- and Zu-protein. However, these pro—
teins were similar both in sedimenta‘
L, 145

SCIENCE, V0

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

—$ 0—.- NW l—Q m PH 07-“




 

 

 

 

 

tion Coefﬁcient (3.85) and amino acid

content. '
The CI- and Zu-proteins were further

puriﬁed by ion-exchange chromatog-
raphy on diethylaminoethyl-Sephadex,
and rabbit antiserums were produced
against the puriﬁed Cr—protein and the
puriﬁed Zu-protein. The antiserums
showed a partial antigenic difference
between these proteins (Fig. la) and
reacted with 7S y-globulin but not with
I82A- or [Ban-globulin. After absorption
of the antiserum to (r with the Zu-
protein, the absorbed antiserum still re-
acted with the Cr-protein and also with
normal 7S y-globulin. but not with the
Zu-protein. Likewise when antiserum
to Zu was absorbed with the Cr-protein,
the absorbed antiserum reacted with
Zu and 7S y-globulin but not with Cr-
protein. These results indicate that the
Cr- and Zu-proteins share a common
moiety, but that in addition each has
at least one speciﬁc antigenic determi-
nant that is also present in normal 7S
y-globulin.

In immunodiﬁusion experiments the
antiserum to Cr produced one line with
normal 7S y-globulin or with normal
human serum, whereas two precipita-
tion lines were formed by the antiserum
to Zu (Fig. lb). The line close to the
antigen well (HS) gave a reaction of
identity with the Zu—protein (Fig. lb);
hence, this line corresponded to y-
globulin molecules bearing determinants
speciﬁc for Zu. From experiments with
antiserum to Cr. absorbed with the Zu-
protein, it was found that the other pre-
ClPitation line was due to y-globulin
molecules with determinants speciﬁc for
Cr. The antigens taking part in these
reactions were both detected in the y-
globulin region by immunoelectropho-
resis (Fig. l, c and f).

'The relative position of the two pre-
Clpltation lines obtained in the reaction
of antiserum to Zn with normal human
serum indicated that, in human serum,
tw‘? DOPUIations of 7S «II—globulin exist
Wthh share some antigenic determi-
nants. The major population possesses
d€terminants speciﬁc for the Cr-protein.
The mlnor population lacks the deter-
mlnants for Cr and has determinants
SDeclﬂc for Zu.
thhcifh assumption was supported by
format‘ er ﬁndings. One of. these IS the
betweelOn of only one prec1p1tation line
Serum It] ngrmalhuman serum and anti-
Cause tlci 1' (Flg. lb). This occurs be-
DreCiDitate' concentratlon necessary for
~ - ion IS obtained closer to the
10 JULY 1964

antiserum well for the Cr-type mole-
cules (which represent the major pop-
ulation of 7S y-globulin molecules) than
for the Zu—type molecules. Hence, the
Cr-type molecules bind both the Cr-
speciﬁc antibodies as well as the anti—
bodies against the common determi-
nants. This prevents the formation of a
second precipitation line with the Zu-
type molecules. Since the latter type of
molecules forms a minor population, it
is clear that a second precipitation line
will be formed between normal human
serum and antiserum to Zu.

The second support was found by
antigenic typing of the abnormal 7S y-
globulins in the serums of patients with
multiple myeloma. Since myeloma pro-
teins have their physiological counter-
parts in the y-globulin system of nor-
mal human serum, forty-nine 7S y-
globulins from myeloma patients were
tested by immunodiffusion and immu—
noelectrophoresis for the presence of
speciﬁc Cr— or Zu-determinants. In

four of these serums the abnormal pro-
tein turned out to be of the Zu-type; in

Fig. 1. All antiserums u

sion between the Cr-protein (Cr, lower wel
Antiserums: antiserum to Cr (A-Cr, left well

b, Immunodiffusion wit

Antiserums: anti-Cr (A-Cr), anti—Zu. (A-Z
(A'ZUabs). c-h, ImmunoeleetrophoreSIS; an
human serum. d and g, Antigen 1s a mye

globulin

the remaining forty-ﬁve, the abnormal
protein was of the Cr-type (Fig. 1, d, e,
g, and h). This frequency ratio is in
accord with the assumed presence of a
relatively small number of Zu-type y-
globulin molecules in normal human
serum. Six of the Cr-type myeloma glob-
ulins in this series lacked one or more
of the Cr-speciﬁc antigenic determinants
as indicated by spur-formation in im-
munodiffusion. Whether these proteins
represent a subgroup is under study. As
would be predicted, the only serums to
give two lines in immunodiﬁ’usion ex-
periments with antiserum to Cr were
serums containing myeloma 7S y-glob-
ulin of the Zu-type.

The location of the determinants in
this classiﬁcation was studied by im-
munodiffusion experiments of papain-
digested 7S y-globulins. This enzyme
splits the y-globulin molecule into two
fragments. According to the electro-
phoretic mobilities, these pieces are
named F (fast) fragment and S (slow)
fragment, respectively. The F fragment
consists of a large part of the H-chain,

 

sed were rabbit antiserums. a, Spur formation in immunodiffu-
l) and the Zu-protein (Zu, upper well).
) and antiserum to Zn (A-Zu, right well).
h normal human serum (HS) and Zu-protein (Zu) as antigens.
u), and anti-Zu absorbed with Cr-protein
de at the left. c and f, Antigen is normal
loma serum containing an abnormal 7S 7-
of the Zu-type. e and h, Antigen is myeloma serum containing an abnormal

7S y-globulin of the Cr-type. Antiserum in c, d, and e is anti-Zu. Antiserum in f, g,

and h is anti—Zu absorbed with Cr-protein.

169

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

whereas the S fragment contains the L-
chain and part of the H-chain (7). The
speciﬁc Cr-determinants and Zu-deter-
minants were found on the F (fast)-
fragment. Since the Cr- and Zu-proteins
differ markedly in carbohydrate content,
further study may implicate this moiety
in the antigenic differences.

Serums of 150 normal individuals
were examined, and all contained both
populations of y-globulin. Several of
these serums were known to be of dif-
ferent Gm speciﬁcities. The results in-
dicated that both antigenic types of 7S
y-globulins (Cr and Zu) are present,
regardless of the Gm type of the serum.

These ﬁndings are consistent with the
assumption that in normal human se-
rums at least two populations of 75 y—
globulins are present which differ in
part of the antigenic structure of their
H-chains. To date it is impossible to
state whether any more different types
of H-chains of 7S y-globulins exist, as
appropriate antiserums to study this
problem have not been available. How-
ever, an antiserum prepared against the
reduced and alkylated 7S y-globulin of
one individual gave two lines in im-
munodiffusion experiments with 7S y-
globulin, which fused with the two lines
of the reaction of antiserum to Zu with
normal human serum. .

The two antigenically distinguishable
types of H-chains in normal and mye-
loma 7S y-globulins may be compared
to the two types of L-chains in these
molecules. However, neither Cr-deter-
minants nor Zu—determinants are con-

ﬁned to one or the other of the anti—
genic type I or type 11 classes.

It is prOposed that these two popula-
tions of normal and myeloma 78 y-
globulins be designated 75 ‘YCr and 7S
yztr, at least until a functional name is
applicable.

RUDY E. BALLIEUX
GEORGE M. BERNIER
KIKUo TOMINAGA
FRANK W. PUTNAM
Department of Biochemistry. University
of Florida College of Medicine,
Gainesville

References and Notes

1. S. Migita and F. W. Putnam. J. Exptl. Med.
117, 81 (1963); M. Mannik and H. G. Kunkel.
ibid. 117. 213 (1963); J. L. Fahey, J. Im-
munol. 91, 448 (1963); F. W. Putnam, C. W.
Easley, J. W. Helling, Biochim. Biophys.
Acta 78, 231 (1963).

2. H-chain is used to signify that part of the
7S 'y-globulin molecule which is not L-chain.

3. E. C. Franklin, H. H. Fudenberg, M. Meltzer.
D. Stanworth, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S. 48.
914 (1962); M. Harboe, C. K. Osterland, H.
G. Kunkel, Science 136, 979 (1962); S. Cohen.
Nature 197, 253 (1963).

4. E. C. Franklin, M. Meltzer. F. Guggenheim.
J. Lowenstein, Federation Proc. 22, 264 (1963).

5. E. F. Osserman and K. Takatsuki, Medicine
42, 357 (1963); E. C. Franklin, J. Lowenstein,
B. Bigelow, M. Meltzer, Am. J. Med., in press.

6. E. F. Osserman and K. Takatsuki, ibid.. in

press.

G. M. Edelman and B. Benacerraf, Proc. Natl.

Acad. Sci. U.S. 48, 1035 (1962).

8. We thank Dr. E. C. Franklin for the abnormal
urinary protein of patient Cr, and Dr. E. F.
Osserman for specimens of the urinary protein
of patient Zu and of 25 7S 'y myeloma serums.
We also thank both for making manuscripts
available to us before publication. Drs. A.
Steinburg and W. V. Epstein provided human
serums of known Gm type. Supported in
part by grants H-02966 and CA-02803 of
NIH. One of us (R.E.B.) acknowledges a
grant from the Netherlands Organisation for
the Advancement of Pure Research (Z.W.O.).

26 March 1964

>1

Antibody to Hereditary Human Gamma-Globulin (Gm)

Factor Resulting from Maternal-Fetal Incompatibility

Abstract. Multiple samples of serum from a va(a—) female mated to a Gm(a+)
male were obtained before, during, and after each of four normal uncomplicated
pregnancies and tested for antibody to human gamma globulins of differing genetic
types. An agglutinator for the Gm(a) factor ﬁrst appeared in the mother’s serum
during the third trimester of the fourth pregnancy. The newborn (male) was geno-

typically

Gm(a'+), since his serum contained,

in addition to maternal Gm(a—)

gamma globulin, small amounts of Gm(a+) gamma globulin.

Antigenic differences in human 7S
y-globulin, detectable by inhibition of
agglutination methods, are determined
by codominant alleles at two inde-
pendent loci (Gm and Inv) (1). Anti-
bodies to y-globulin, speciﬁc for one
or another of these hereditary anti-
gens, have been found in the serums
of multiply transfused individuals (2),
in some Gm(—) offspring of Gm(+)

170

mothers (3), in children given multiple
injections of pooled Cohn fraction II
for “allergy” (4), and in children stud-
ied 1 to 2 years after exchange trans-
fusion for hemolytic disease of the
newborn (4). Most reports state that
the 7S y-globulin in the human fetus
is acquired from the mother by trans-
placental passage, so that the y-globu-
lin phenotype (Gm type) of mother

and newborn child are identical (1, 5);
however, endogenous production of
small amounts or y-globulin (0.1 to 1.0
percent of the total present in cord
blood) by the fetus has recently been
demonstrated in this laboratory (6) with
the use of selected SNagg (aggluti-
nating serums from nonarthritic pa-
tients) reagents (7). In such systems
Gm(+) normal serums still show in-
hibitory activity when diluted up to
500- to 2000-fold with saline or Gm
(-—) serum, and Gm(+) cord serums in-
hibit at 1:2 to 1:20 dilutions.

These ﬁndings suggested that “anti-—
y-globulins” might result from immuni-
zation of the mother by fetal y-globulin
bearing hereditary Gm determinants
elaborated by genes inherited from the
father but not present in the mother.
In our study, the Gm types of the
parents (the authors) (Table 1) made
it likely that some of their offspring
would be positive for the Gm(a) fac-
tor present in the father (HHF) but
absent in the mother (BRF). For this
reason, multiple samples of serum were
obtained from the mother when she
was nulliparous and also during and
after each of her four pregnancies and
stored in portions in the frozen state.
After each pregnancy a portion of each
of the available samples was thawed
and tested simultaneously for anti-Gm
activity. Such activity did not appear in
the mother’s scrum during or after the
ﬁrst three pregnancies, but these off-
spring are Gm(a—)——conﬁrmed by Gm
typing at 3 years of age—(Table 1).
The fourth pregnancy was uncompli-
cated and the mother received no trans-
fusions or injections during its course-
Her serum did not contain rheumatoid
factor (negative results in sensitized
sheep-cell and latex-ﬁxation tests). Dur-
ing the fourth pregnancy, however, an
antibody to ~ -globulin demonstrable b)’
agglutinating systems was detected In
the maternal serum at the beginning 0f
the third trimester (Table 2) and per-'
sisted until the 35th week of gestation-
This agglutinator was speciﬁc for the
Gm(a) factor; it agglutinated Rh-pos1—
tive red cells sensitized by Gm(a-ljl
“incomplete” anti-Rh reagents but dld
not agglutinate cells coated with 6111‘
(a—) anti-Rh. That the agglutinator WitS
speciﬁc for Gm(a) was documented
the inhibition obtained with a panel 0f
25 standard serums of known Gm an
Inv types; these serums were used to
inhibit the agglutination system estabi
lished with the mother’s serum and ‘
positive cells sensitized by a Gm(a+)

SCIENCE. VOL 145

 

 

 




 

anti-Rh coat (SW). All Gm(a+) serums
but no Gm(a—) serums inhibited this
agglutination system. Presumably pro-
duction of agglutinator to Gm(a) was
stimulated by the presence of fetal
blood in the maternal circulation; evi-
dence for maternal immunization by
components of fetal blood is provided
by the increase in titer of agglutinins
for red cells of blood group B during
the fourth pregnancy (mother, blood
group A; infant. AB). As shown in
Table 2, serum samples obtained at
term and at weekly intervals thereafter
lacked signiﬁcant amounts of anti-
Gm(a) and showed progressively lower
anti—B titers. The cord serum was weak-
ly inhibitory in the Gm(a) test system
(Table 3).

These data demonstrate that en-
dogenous synthesis of y-globulin by the
fetus in amounts suﬁicient to immunize
a mother of “incompatible” Gm type
is already occurring by the 7th month
of gestation. Accordingly, the produc-
tion and incidence of anti-Gm aggluti-
nators will depend on maternal and
fetal Gm genotype. differential “anti-
genicity” of the various y-globulin fac-
tors, and individual differences (perhaps
genetically determined) in antibody re-
sponse. That there may be a familial
predisposition to the formation of ag-
glutinator (or other “anti—” component)

Table 1. Blood and serum groups of family F.
Blood

 

 

 

 

Mem- Type of .
ber Age Wgroup gamma globulin

ABO Rh Gm Inv

Father 35 BO + (11+ b+7m

Mother 37 A0 + (a~b+x—) (a+b+)

:2: Z 0 _ (a~b+x—) (a—b+)

Son 3 B + (a—-ib+x—) (3+b+)

Son * B + (a—b+x—) (a+b+)
AB + (a + b + x — ) 7

* Newborn.

Table 2. Isoagglutinin (anti-B) and anti-

ginta). titers of mother‘s serum before and
er blrth of fourth son.
K

 

Anti-B

 

Time Anti-Gm(a)
K“
Pregnancy
‘2 mo 32 0
+2 1110 32 0
+5 mo 32 0
+7 m0 128 4
+9 m0 256 8
+914 mo 256 4
Term 256 1/2"<
Postpartum
% Wk 2048 1/2-r=
3 Wk 1024 0
4 Wk 640 0
Wk 640 0

 

*P] .
u _ . . .
Smlnus reactlon W1th undiluted serum.

10 JULY 1964

Table 3. Inhibition of Gm(a) agglutination system by cord serum diluted from 1:1 to 1:2000
{ﬁlgmm-l ser um. The agglutlnation system contained anti-Gm(a) No. 51 and anti-Rh SW.
t' .Sysltem was controlled as follows: ant1—Gm(a) and sensitized cells resulted in no inhibi-
10n, sa me and SCHSltlZCd 06113, ant1-Gm(a) and uncoated cells, inhibitor and sensitized cells

 

each resulted inOno.inhibi.tion. Agglutination was graded from 0 to ++; ++ : no inhibi-
tClgrili’ + : partial 1nh1b1t10n, 0 : inhibition. Similar results were obtained with anti—Gm(a)
1 2 4 8 16 32 64 125 250 500 1000 2000

 

Cord serum

0 O 0 + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + +
Newborn’s serum at 3 months

0 0 0 0 0 0 O + + + + + + + + +
Gm(a+b+) positive control

0 O O O 0 0 0 0 O 0 + —|— +
Gm(a—b+) negative control

++ ++ ++ ++ ++ ++ ++ ++ ++ ++ ++ ++

 

to y-globulin has already been suggest-
ed (8), and this predisposition may per-
tain here. Of the three older children,
all male and all Gm(a—) (Table 1), the
youngest, age 3, developed agglutinator
to Gm(a) after injection of 16 percent
Cohn fraction II, in a dose of 0.02 ml
per kilogram of body weight, whereas
the other two boys, after similar injec-
tion of Cohn fraction II in doses of
0.02 and 0.04 ml per kilogram at com-
parable ages, did not develop agglutina-
tors for y-globulins.

This is, to our knowledge, the ﬁrst
reported instance of the documented
appearance of an agglutinator after
antigenic stimulation by Gm-incompati-
ble y-globulin in an individual whose
serum, by test, contained no agglutina-
tor previously. The incidence of such
a phenomenon is unknown, but prob-
ably is low. The maximum titer (1:8)
of the mother’s serum at 9 months’
gestation and the barely detectable re-
action with undiluted serum at term
may be pertinent in this connection. It
is probable that the presence of anti-
Gm agglutinins with comparable activ-
ity would not have been detected in
previous studies of Gm types of paired
mother-infant serums (I, 5) in which
tests were performed only on post-
partum serums and only at dilutions of
1:4 or greater.

The results of our study provide
further documentation on the anti-
genicity of Gm(+) y-globulin in pre-
sumably normal Gm(—) individuals.
Although Steinberg and Wilson’s.data
suggest that, in retrospect, an antl—Gm
agglutinin was present in one normal
subject for at least 30 years (3), there IS
a paucity of data on the long-term con-
sequences of anti-Gm antibodies in the

serum of individuals with a predisposi-

tion to connective tissue disorders (8)
and other diseases. Furthermore, ag-
glutinators directed against y-globulin
of one or anOther genetic type are oc-
casionally present in the 7S (yr) com—
ponent of the immune globulins (6).
Since 7S y-globulin passes the pla-
centa, maternal production of 7S agglu-
tinins directed against genetic (Gm) de—
terminants in fetal y-globulin may be
important in the etiology of the “func-
tional” (transient) hypogammaglobu-
linemia of infancy. Such anti-Gm ag-
glutinators have been detected in the
7S y—globulins of two of the mothers
of infants with “functional” hypogam-
maglobulinemia studied in our lab-
oratory (9).
H. H. FUDENBERG
BETTY ROOF FUDENBERG
Department of Medicine,
University of California School of
Medicine, San Francisco 22

References and Notes

Progr. Med. Genetics, 2,
Fudenberg, Progr. Allergy

1. A. G. Steinberg,
1 (1962); H. H.
7, 1 (1963).

2. J. C. Allen and H. G. Kunkel, Science 139,
418 (1963); H. H. Fudenberg and H. Per-
kins, unpublished.

3. A. G. Steinberg and J. A. Wilson, Science
140, 303 (1963).

4. E. R. Stiehm and H. H. Fudenberg, in

preparation.
5. P. Linnet-Jepsen, F. Galatius-Jensen, M.
Hauge, Acta Genet. Statist. Med. 8, 164

(1958); M. Harboe and J. Lundevall, Acta
Pathol. Microbiol. Scand. 45, 357 (1959); J.
Moullec, R. Kherumian, E. Sutton, P. Es—
pagnon, Rev. Hematol. 11, 512 (1956).

6. L. Martensson, Program, Annual Meeting
of the American Society of Human Genetics,
New York, 19—21 July 1963, p. 6.

7. C. Ropartz, J. Lenoir, Y. Hemet, L. Rivat,
Nature 188, 1120 (1960).

8. H. H. Fudenberg and E. C. Franklin, Ann.
N.Y. Acad. Sci., in press.

9. H. H. Fudenberg and R. A. Good, unpub-
lished.

10. Supported by ONR contract Nonr-3656(12)
(NR 105-308), USPHS grant H-5997, the
California division of the American Cancer
Society, and the University of California
Statewide Cancer Coordinating Committee.

9 April 1964
171

, _..._._.. m _ ”vhf...” -2-..-__. .

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Aortico-Pulmonary Glomus Tissue
Distribution and Blood Supply in
the Adult Cat

Abstract. A microscopic, three-di-
mensional study of the aortico-pulmo-
nary glomus tissue in the adult cat
indicates a random, continuous aggrega-
tion of glomus tissue extending from
the left coronary artery to the ligamen—
tum arteriosum. It was not possible to
demonstrate unequivocally speciﬁc glo—
mera. Serial section and the injection
of the pulmonary artery with India ink
failed to Show a vessel of supply to
glomeric tissue.

The presence of glomus tissue be-
tween the ascending aorta and pulmo-
nary artery (herein termed aortico-
pulmonary glomus tissue) is well docu—
mented (I). The distribution of this
“non-chromatﬁn paraganglionic” tissue
microscopically similar to that in the
carotid body has been investigated, and
attempts have been made to classify
and name particular regional aggrega—
tions. This problem of classiﬁcation has
been accentuated by the recent observa—
tions of Krahl (2) who has deﬁned
an aggregation of glomus tissue. the
“glomus pulmonale,” in the adventitia
dorsal to the pulmonary artery and
caudal to the bifurcation. Evidence was
presented from embryological reason—
ing for the existence of such tissue at
this site. The demonstration of a blood
supply from the pulmonary artery to
the glomus pulmonale is of fundamen-
tal importance if this chemoreceptor
tissue is to monitor mixed venous blood,
a pr0posal postulated by Armstrong
(3) and Duke (4).

  
 

 

Fig.

   

«t

a, l
’ ’r/rtru"

/ 3,;
g g
//
/

v
1’

A three—dimensional microscopic
study of the distribution of glomus tis—
sue was made in aortico-pulmonary
complexes removed as a unit from three
adult cats. The tissue was ﬁxed and
perfused with 10 percent formalin. Be—
fore the tissue was embedded the archi-
tectural relationship of the two major
vessels was noted. A detailed recon—
struction of the vascular complex was
made from serial sections (20 u thick)
routinely stained with hematoxylin and
eosin.

In 20 other adult cats, India ink (5)
was injected into the pulmonary artery
at variable pressures up to 50 mm—Hg
by way of a catheter tied into the right
ventricle. The deeply anesthetized ani—
mal had been heparinized and perfused
with warm physiological saline contain-
ing glyceryl trinitrate (0.3 mg/ 100 ml).
The lung roots were ligated, and a
cannula was inserted into a lobar artery
to act as a vent. After injection, the
pulmonary artery was ligated at the
pulmonary valve. It was removed and
examined under a binocular dissecting
microscope (maximum magniﬁcation
30), or was divided into anterior and
posterior segments, and each was ﬁxed,
dehydrated, cleared, and mounted.

Histologically, the aortico-pulmonary
glomus tissue was very similar to that
of the carotid body. While there was
an obvious variation in the size,
amount, and distribution of aortico-
pulmonary glomus tissue in the three
animals (Fig. 1, a—c), certain con-
sistent features were recognized. The
glomera varied in size from single
lobules containing a few cells, to large,
vascular, multilobular masses complete-
ly surrounding arteries and arterioles.

      
 

1. Three-dimensional diagrammatic representations, viewed from the anterior
aspect, 0f the distribution of glomus tissue in the aortico-pulmonary region of three
adult cats (A, B, and C). The ascending aorta emerges from behind the right side of
the pulmonary trunk to cover the right pulmonary artery. Glomera hidden behind
Vessels are shaded whereas tissue on the anterior surface is black. The ligamentum

arteriosum and left coronary artery are shown.

172

 

 

 

 

Fig. 2. Vessel traversing the media and ad-
ventitia of the posterior aspect of the

pulmonary artery caudal to the bifurca-
tion. Glomeric tissue is noted within the
adventitia. Multiple sections failed to dem-
onstrate entry of the vessel into the pul-
monary artery lumen. G, Adventitial
glomus tissue. L, Pulmonary artery lumen.
(Hematoxylin and eosin. X 56)

The greater part of the tissue occupied
the area between the pulmonary artery
and the ascending aorta and continued
into the concavity of the arch of the
aorta, to surround the ligamentum
arteriosum. Glomera were also ob-
served over the anterior and posterior
aspects of the ascending aorta and pul-
monary artery. This distribution ap-
peared continuous. and it was impossi-
ble to differentiate the masses of tissue
to which speciﬁc names have been
given. The glomera appeared to be
distributed along the blood vessels rath-
er than localized to particular areas.
The India-ink injection failed to re-
veal the presence of a vessel pene-
trating the pulmonary artery wall to
supply it or the adventitial glomus H.8-
sue. This observation was conﬁrmed m
the serially sectioned tissue, and also
on numerous pulmonary arteries
stained to demonstrate the pattern. of
innervation. However, on one occaswn,
a large, patent muscular artery was seen
to cross the media obliquely (Fig. 2?‘
Serial sections demonstrated that thlS
vessel did not enter the pulmonary
artery lumen, but ended blindly before
reaching the intima.
These observations,
the presence of glomus tissue 21880C

which comﬁrm
iated

SCIENCE. VOL ‘45

 

 

 

 

 




 

with the aortico-pulmonary region indi-
cate that the magnitude and continuity
of such a system in the adult animal
make any attempt at speciﬁc localiza-
tion futile. Previously, Palme (6) had
noted this diffuse distribution but drew
attention to the organization of large
glomera in speciﬁc locales, whereas
Hollinshead (I) found a distribution Of
glomera from the left coronary artery
to the ligamentum arteriosum conﬁned
to the region between the pulmonary
artery and the ascending aorta.

The distribution appears to be so
random that to give different names to
the aggregations of glomus tissue found
in arbitrary areas of this region is of
little value unless. or until. signiﬁcant
anatomical or physiologic differences
become apparent. Krahl (2) main-
tained that the glomus pulmonale was
different by virtue of its position and
blood supply. Our results in the adult
animal have not conﬁrmed these Ob-
servations. The right and left coronary
arteries have been shown to supply the
aortico-pulmonic glomera in the adult
animal (1, 7). The functional signiﬁ-
cance of this supply. or the role played
by the vasa vasorum of the pulmonary
trunk or ascending aorta is unknown.
The vessel, deep in the media, which
ended blindly, in one animal would ap-
pear to be a vestige Of a vessel previ-
ously described and probably function-
ally signiﬁcant in fetal and newborn
animals. The proximal part Of this ves-
sel appears to close after birth in the

same way as the ductus arteriosus
(1,3, 8).

What we see in the adult cat is the
mature pattern in which no direct pul-
monic arterial blood supply to glomus
tissue exists. The rare occurrence of
partially obliterated vessels (and per-
haps even patent vessels) is a vestigial
manifestation of an organization of
greater signiﬁcance to the fetus and
neonate. Aortico-pulmonary glomera
seems to be the most appropriate name
until it is decided whether their pre-
dominant physiological rOle in the adult
animal lies with the pulmonary artery
or with the aorta.

M. ANTHONY VERITY
TREVOR HUGHES
JOHN A. BEVAN
Departments of Pathology and
Pharmacology, University of
California, Center for the Health
Sciences, Los Angeles 24

References and Notes

1. W. H. Hollinshead, J. Comp. Neurol. 73, 37
(1940); W. S. Hammond. Am. J. Anat. 69,
265 (1941); J. D. Boyd, Brit. Med. Bull. 17,
127 (1961).

2. V. E. Krahl, in Ciba Foundation Symposium
on Pulmonary Structure and Function, A. V. S.
de Reuck and M. O’Conner, Eds. (Churchill,
London. 1962), p. 53.

3. B. W. Armstrong, H. H. Hort, R. W. Blide,
J. M. Workman, Science 133, 1897 (1961).

4. H. N. Duke, J. H. Green, P. F. Heffron,
V. W. J. Stubbens, Quart. J. Exptl. Physiol.
48. 164 (1963).

5. G. W. Harris. J. Anat. 81, 343 (1947).

6. F. Palme, Z. Mikroskop. Anat. Forsch. 36,
391 (1934).

7. J. H. Comroe, Jr., Am. J. Physiol. 127, 176
(1939); B. E. Gernandt, Acta Physiol. Scand.
11. Suppl. 35 (1946); E. Neil, ibid. 22, 54
(1951). ‘

8. N. Goormahtigh and R. Pannier, Arch. Biol.
Paris 50, 455, 1939; J. F. Nonidez, Anat.
Rec. 69, 299 (1937).

9. Partially supported by
08359.

23 March 1964 I

USPHS grant HE.-

A Primitive Heart in the Echinoid Strongylocentrotus purpuratus

Abstract. A pulsating vessel and a compartmented contractile chamber have
been found to move coelomic fluid from the perivisceral cavity into and through-
out the hemal system of the sea urchin, Strongylocentrotus purpuratus.

The question of whether echinoderms
hflVe a circulatory system has been
dlSPuted for nearly 150 years. Our
StUdy demonstrates the existence Of a
true circulatory system.

The axial gland, a little understood
structure in echinoderms, is an elon-
gated soft body, generally brownish or
Purplish in color, found near the stone
Canal. It has been referred to by a va-
“Fty 0f names including heart (I),
kldney (2), brown gland (3), ovoid
gland (4), dorsal organ (5, 6), and
Septal gland (6), indicative of the con-
SIdBrable disagreement about its struc-

10 JULY 1964

tural relationships and function. This
study of the hemal system and axial
gland complex of the purple sea urchln,
Strongylocentrotus purpuratus, .has
yielded new information that provrdes
a better understanding of the gland’s
function.

The axial gland is a hollow organ
which tapers at both ends. In cross
section it forms a circle, half of Wthh
consists of dense tissue and the other
half is a membrane (Fig. 1).

We have found that there are two
separate cavities, the

prominent and
e axial gland lumen

axocoel and th

(axial sinus). The axial gland lumen is
occupied by a pulsating vessel which
extends the length of the axial gland
with branches that form the dense
spongy region. The pulsating vessel
terminates aborally in an ampulla-like
structure in the axocoel, directly under
the madreporite. This ampullar struc-
ture is divided into two contractile
chambers, which are visible in a live
animal after removal of the rectum (Fig.
2). The ﬁrst, a more conspicuous and
Opaque chamber, leads from the pul-
sating vessel; the second chamber,
broader and thinner, extends around
the inner surface of the aboral sinus.

Rhythmic contractions of the pul-
sating vessel were studied by time-lapse
cinematography, intervals from 3 to 24
frames per second being used. Beat fre-
quencies averaged six per minute, rang-
ing from four to eight. Contraction of
one chamber follows that of another,
as in a two-chambered heart with auric-
ular and ventricular beats. A contrac-
tion sequence begins with the second
chamber, passes to the ﬁrst, and con-
tinues peristaltically along the pulsating
vessel within the axial gland lumen.

A connection between the stone canal
of the water vascular system and lumen
of the axial gland (Fig. 2), shown in
serial sections, conﬁrms earlier accounts
(3) and clariﬁes confusion on this
point ( 7 ). Separation between contrac-
tile chambers and the cavity of the
axocoel is complete. The axocoel, how-
ever, communicates directly with the
perivisceral coelom via a narrow slit
(2 to 4 mm long) near the beginning
of the stone canal. Perivisceral ﬂuid
with its contained cells can therefore
move freely in and out of the axocoel.

The Opening between the perivisceral
coelom and axocoel forms a pathway in
which coelomic ﬂuid moves throughout
the hemal system and to other tissues
of the body, notably gonads and ali-
mentary tract. Two percent ﬂuorescein
dye (0.01 ml) was injected into the
coelomic cavity of an intact animal.
After 15 minutes the animal was killed,
the coelomic ﬂuid with ﬂuorescein dye
was removed, and the exposed tissues
were rinsed several times to remove ex-
cess dye. By means of ultraviolet light,
the dye was shown to be distributed
throughout the hemal system.

On the surfaces of the contractile
chamber numerous microscopic ostia
occur. These lead into an internal net-
work Of vessels of capillary dimension,
the walls of which consist of numerous
longitudinal contractile ﬁbers. From the
ﬁrst chamber, these capillaries converge

173

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

  
 
  
  
  
  
 

Fig. 1 (above). Cross section of axial gland near oral
end. I , Surface vessel; 2, vessel formed from surface
vessels on the axial glands; 3, stone canal; 4, mem-
brane; 5, lumen of axial gland (axial sinus): 6, pul-
sating vessel; and 7, dense tissue of axial gland. (X 25)

 

 

 

Fig. 2 (top right). A semischematic longitudinal illus- p.
tration of the axial gland and pulsating vessel complex. ’ ' ’ ' ‘ ‘ ““““ ' """"
I, Cavity of the axocoel; 2, the broad ﬂattened com-
partment; 3, the small conspicuous compartment; 4,
opening between numbers 2 and 3 above; 5, slit be-
tween axocoel and coelomic cavity; 6, rectal hemal
vessel from inner hemal sinus; 7, surface vessels; 8,
membrane; 9, axial oral vessel; 10, lumen of axial
gland (axial sinus); I .I , dense region; I 2, right branch
of the pulsating vessel within lumen of axial gland; 13.
stone canal; 14, the single pulsating vessel near the
aboral end of the axial gland and within the axial
lumen; 15, opening between axial lumen and stone
canal; and I6, madreporite. (X 40)

 

Fig. 3 (bottom right). Photomicrograph of a median
longitudinal section of the main contractile compart—
ments. 1, Madreporite; 2, cavity beneath the madre-
porite; 3, axocoel cavity; ‘4, the small conspicuous com-
partment—note the internal network of ﬁbrous vessels
which converge at the beginning of the pulsating vessel;
5 , the broad ﬂattened compartment; 6, coelomic cavity;
7, rectum; 8, pulsating vessel; 9, ostia. (X 60)

 

 

 

 

 

;‘ NJ—Jf o—j .

174 SCIENCE. VOL- 145

55.1.14

 

 




 

 

into the pulsating vessel as it enters the
axial gland. Motion picture analysis
showed a unidirectional movement of
pulsations. Since the converging vessels
are so numerous at this point (Fig. 3),
it is reasonable to attribute a valvular
function to them. The pulsating vessel
is much branched. The terminal proc-
essess of each branch appear to end
blindly within the dense tissues of the
axial organ. These penetrating branches
create a multiplicity of small cavities,
each communicating with the main axial
gland lumen (Fig. l). The gland sur-
face is covered by a vascular network
that eventually converges into a single
vessel that leads to the peries0phageal
ring. From this ring another vessel leads
along the surface of the esophagus. It
eventually contributes to and forms the
inner hemal sinus. which runs along the
inner surface of the digestive tract, and
leaves the rectum to terminate in the
second contractile chamber. Thus, ﬂuid
can enter the contractile chamber by
two routes, (i) the inner hemal sinus
and (ii) the previously mentioned mi-
croscopic ostia.

Since microinjection of ﬁuorescein
dye into the cavity of the axocoel dem-
onstrated movement of dye throughout
the pulsating chambers. we conclude
that injected ﬂuid passes from the
axocoel into the chambered vessels by
way of the ostia and thence into the
pulsating vessel within the axial gland
lumen.

Injection of dye into the axial gland
lumen was followed within seconds by
its appearance in the surface network
of vessels on the axial gland. The dye
Was traced into the stone canal and peri-
Pharyngeal ring and then throughout
the water vascular system. This con-
ﬂFms our histological observation on
the communication between the water
Vascular system and axial gland (7).

Analysis of motion pictures also re-
Vealed contractions of the stone canal.
A? lOng segment of this tube contracts
Slmultaneously with the pulsating vessel.
On close observation we noted a syn-
Chrony in the contraction of the stone
Canal and the pulsating chambers. When
the latter contracts, the lumen of the
Stohe canal is conspicuously open.

We found a direct communication
betWeen the lumina of the axial gland
and stone canal. The rhythmic con-
trflc’tion of the pulsating vessel together
Wlth the pulsations of the stone canal
may be important in moving ﬂuids
throughout the entire water vascular
S3'stem.

10 JULY 1964

Since acetylcholine inhibits pulsa-
tions and adrenaline accelerates them,
the process appears to be myogenic in
origin.

RICHARD A. BOOLOOTIAN
Department of Zoology,
University of California, Los Angeles
JAMES L. CAMPBELU"
Los Angeles Valley College,
Van Nuys, California

References and ‘Notes

1. F. Tiedemann, Anatomie der Rohren-Holo-
thurie des Pomerantz-farbigen Seesterns and
Stein-Seeigels (Joseph Thomanschen Buch-
druckerei, Landshut, 1816), pp. 1—98; G.
Valentin, in Monographies d’Echinodermes

t‘it'ants et fossiles, L. Agassiz, Ed. (Petit-
pierre, Neuchatel, 1841), pp. 1—126.

2. M. Perrier, Arch. 2001. Exptl. Gen. 4, 605
(1875); R. Koehler, Mus. Hist. Natur. Mar-

seille, Zool. l, Mém. 3, 167 (1883); P. Sara-
sin and F. Sarasin, Ergeb. Naturw. Forsch.
auf Ceylon 1 (3), 81 (1888).

3. L. Cuénot, in Traité de Zoologie, P. Grassé,
Ed. (Masson, Paris, 1948), pp. 120—200.

4. H. Prouho, Arch. Zool. Exptl. Gen., Ser. 2,
5, 213—380 (1887).

5. K. C. Vogt and E. Yung, Lehrbuch der
prakischen Vergleichs-Anatomie (Vieweg,
Braunschweig, Germany, 1888).

6. L. Hyman, The Invertebrates (McGraw-Hill,
New York, 1955), vol. 4, pp. 413—589.

7. The only evidence suggesting a connection
between the water vascular system and the
axial gland was reported by Hyman (6), who
stated that colored water was forced through
the madreporite and traced to the axial gland
and through the water vascular system
(6. p. 568). However, Hyman noted the dis-
agreement of other workers on the existence
of a connection between the water vascular
system and axial gland (6, p. 473).

8. This work was supported by grant GB-1042

from the National Science Foundation and

contract Nonr 233 (85) from the Ofﬁce of

Naval Research. We thank Miss Gerry Beye

for illustrating Fig. 2.

Predoctoral fellow supported by. G-62261

from the National Science Foundation.

10 April 1964

*-

Ultraviolet Sensitivity of
Escherichia coli Containing
Heat-Inducible A Prophages

Abstract. The cl-t mutants of bacte-
riophage A can form prophage at 36°C
but cause lysis of sensitive bacteria at
temperatures above 42°C. Growth of
cultures at 42° to 46°C induces pro-
phage replication and lysis in Escherl-
chia coli K12 (A cl-t); lysogenic strains
containing wild-type prophage are not
induced to lyse at these temperatures.
Heat induction is prevented by chlor-
amphenicol. Strains containing heat-
inducible prophage are much more
sensitive to killing by ultraviolet light
than is K12 (A+).

The c] gene of bacteriophage A con-
trols the production of a cytoplasmic
factor that is required for the establlsh-

ment and maintenance of prophage.

This factor has been called “immunity
substance” because it also prevents vege-
tative multiplication of related phages
introduced into the lysogenic cell. Ac-
cording to Jacob and his co-workers (1 )
this cytoplasmic factor is a repressor
that inhibits the synthesis of one or
more of the “early” proteins essential
for initiating growth of vegetative
phage.

Sussman and Jacob (2) and Thomas
and Lambert (3) have described mu-
tants of bacteriophage A that can be
maintained as prophage at temperatures
below 37°C but are induced to become
vegetative phage at higher temperatures.
Both groups of investigators reported
that mutations in the c] gene of the
bacteriophage A can be suppressed by
mutations of the host bacterium; these
suppressors also ameliorate the action
of bacterial mutations which affect the
synthesis of certain enzymes. These
findings suggest that the repressor
is a protein and that temperature-sensi-
tive A mutants produce an unstable
protein that becomes nonfunctional at
temperatures that do not affect the
structure of the normal repressor. Sup-
pressor mutations in the host bacterium
presumably supply some mechanism
that allows wild-type protein to be pro-
duced on a mutant messenger RNA.

It has been generally assumed that
ultraviolet light induces vegetative mul-
tiplication of prophage by interfering
with the synthesis or function of the
repressor. This report concerns the sen-
sitivity of lysogenic strains that contain
temperature-sensitive pr0phages of bac-
teriophage A to induction by ultraviolet
light.

Wild-type bacteriophage A that had
incorporated 5-bromouracil into its
DNA was plated on strain M3, a non-
lysogenic strain of Escherichia coli K12,
and the plates were incubated overnight
at 43°C. Phage from clear plaques was
replated at 43° and 35°C. Seven mu-
tants giving clear plaques at 43°C but
turbid plaques at 35°C were isolated.
Genetic tests of the phage mutants are
incomplete, but they have been desig-
nated as “cl-t mutants.” An additional
mutant used in these experiments,
A cI-tl, was the gift of J. J. Weigle. Each
mutant was used to produce a lysogenic
strain of M3. Cultures of the lysogenic
strains were grown with aeration in
broth containing 1 percent Difco tryp-
tone + 0.5 percent NaCl to a concen-
tration of 2 to 5 X 108 per milliliter.
For studies of heat induction, the bac-
teria were diluted in the broth at the

175

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




< ”;;_»‘?:-,‘.1;.;..‘ ' 5% r? " -

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

o——-—KIZ(A+)

 

FRACTION

SURVIVING

SIX OTHER KlatACl-T)
STRAINS (outage) --—-

0.01

 
 
 

0.00l '
15 30 45

thurEs AT 42.5“

80

Fig. 1. Heat induction of lysogenic strains
containing A prophages.

desired temperature. During 45 minutes
at 45°C, the percentage of bacteria that
formed colonies gradually dropped to
about 0.5 percent and the percentage
forming plaques on M3 rose to almost
100 percent. After induction by heating
at 46°C for 5 minutes, the latent period
before any release of phage was 50
minutes and the yield of phage per
bacterium about 100.

At 45° to 46°C, induction occurred
at the same rate in all K12 (A cI-t)
strains, but at 425°C one strain gave
an induction curve that was clearly

    
   

BROTH +-
25y9/ML CMP

FRACTION

SURVIVING

O mama-"m
O KIZMCI'TSM
A KtztAct-Tss)

.00! I 1 1

BROTH

  
 
   

 

 

 

1
IO 20 30 40
MINUTES AT '45°

Fig. 2. Effect of heating lysogenic strains
containing A cI-t prophages in medium
with or without chloramphenicol (CMP).

176

diﬁerent from the others shown
in Fig. 1. At 415°C, K12 (A cI-t53)
can divide, while heat gradually kills
bacteria carrying prophage Of A CI '1‘ l
and ,\ 61—159. The process of heat in—
duction requires that there be bacterial
growth during the heating period. When
K12 (A cl —tl) was grown into station-
ary phase and then diluted in 0.9 per-
cent NaCl or in tryptone broth contain-
ing 25 11g of chloramphenicol per milli-
liter, there was no induction at 45°C
(Fig. 2). High concentrations of pu-
trescine (0.3M) also inhibited heat in-
duction as well as cell division. Bacteria
containing a temperature-sensitive pro-
phage can be protected from heat in-
duction by superinfecting them with
the original wild-type A—l— (4). Appar-
ently, the normal repressor produced
by the cytoplasmic phage takes over
the functions of the inactivated repres-
sor produced by the prophage.

For ultraviolet irradiation experi-
ments, cultures were grown in the
tryptone broth to a density of 5 X 108
bacteria per milliliter and diluted 1:20
in cold 0.9 percent saline. Almost iden—
tical results were obtained with cultures
grown at 30° and 36°C. Three—milliliter
portions were placed in small petri
dishes, and the dishes were agitated by
hand under a Westinghouse Sterilamp
delivering about 3 ergs/mm2 sec’]. In
Fig. 3, induction of prophage by ultra-
violet light is compared in strains car—
rying /\,—l- and various )\ cl-t prOphages.
The highest dose of ultraviolet light
killed less than 50 percent of nonlyso-
genie cells: killing is used as a measure
of induction, even though not all of the
nonsurviving cells formed plaques. The
killing (induction) curve of K12 (,\
cI—t53) at low doses was always less
steep than killing curves of other M3
()t cI—t) strains. Thus, there is a corre—
lation between sensitivity to induction
by heat and by ultraviolet light. The
dose—reducing effect of photoreactivating
light was at least as great in K12 ()t
cl-t) strains as in K12 (A+). Treat-
ments given after ultraviolet irradiation
that increase induction of K12 (,\+),
such as fortifying the growth medium
with proﬂavin or caffeine (5), also in-
creased the induction of K12 (A cI-t)
strains. As free phages, A c 14 mutants
are not more sensitive to heat or ultra-
violet light than wild-type A.

The correlation between ultraviolet
and heat sensitivity of mutant prophages
suggests that both pr0perties are altered
by a single change in the CI gene. It

 

  
    
      

-- KlZiA-H
0.1
Z
9.
’— n
3 ._ mama-753)
0:
LL.
.0!
C)
E
Z
>
0:
D
U)
.OOI KlZlACl-TSS)
K12lACl-Tl)"—'“"

 

 

 

 
 
 

 

20 40 so
SECONDS UV

Fig. 3. Ultraviolet induction of lysogenic
strains containing >\ prophages.

is reasonable to assume that heating
could inactivate a repressor that is a
protein, but it appears unlikely that very
low doses of ultraviolet light induce
lysis by inactivating protein molecules.
This dilemma can be solved by suppos-
ing that the repressor molecules pro-
duced by mutant prophages have an
alteration in their structure which re-
sults in a lowered afﬁnity for the site
susceptible to repression. In that case,
the concentration of repressor mole-
cules required to prevent derepression
would be higher in K12 (,\ cI-t) than
in K12 0+). Damage by ultraviolet

light to the lysogenic cell that prevents .

formation of repressor substance, even
for a short time. would be more likely
to result in derepression in a cell con-
taining a temperature-sensitive repres-
sor than in a normal lysogenic strain.
MARGARET LIEB
Department of Microbiology.
University of Southern California
School of Medicine. and LOS AngeleS
County General Hospital. Los AngeleS

References and Notes

Rend.

, Compﬁ
1. F. Jacob and A. Campbell J. Monod,

24s. 3219 (1959): F. Jacob and
J. Mol. Biol. 3. 318 (1961).

2. R. Sussman and F. Jacob. Compt. Rend~ 2:211,
1517 (1962): F. Jacob, R. Sussman, 1 M0“ ’
ibid.. p. 4214. .

. R. Thomas and L. Lambert, Bull. Acad- Roy
Belg. 48. 688 (1962).

. M. Lieb. unpublished.

. Genetics 47.

Intern. Cong. Genet. I. 27 (1963)-

~Supported by NIH grant AI'0536
NSF grant G 24165.

20 April 1964

(A,

 

myus

SCIENCE, VOL. 145

 

“




 

Lethal Alleles in Mus musculus: Local Distribution

and Evidence for Isolation of Demes

Abstract. In the vicinity of Calgary, Alberta, 20.5 percent of wild house mice
tested were found to be heterozygous for the lethal allele deSignated tws’ and
an additional 3.4 percent were heterozygous for one or more alleles not belong-
ing ’0 the ”5 group. The distribution patterns of Wild-type and lethal alleles within
and between clusters of small demes supports the postulate that random drift plays
a signiﬁcant role in the evolution of these populations. Distribution patterns also
suggest that the demes are reproductively isolated to a greater degree than has

been generally assumed.

Lethal and male—sterile alleles at
locus T on the 9th chromosome of the
house mouse are characterized by trans-
mission ratios averaging 0.96 in male
heterozygotes caught in the wild state
(I). This high frequency of the mutant
allele in the effective sperm pool of
such males is believed to be the factor
responsible for the widespread distribu-
tion and high frequency of such alleles
observed in samples taken from free-
living populations, and has been de-
scribed as an evolutionary force op-
posed to the selection against these
alleles (2).

The evolutionary dynamics of this
situation have been investigated by
means of mathematical models based
on the alternative assumptions that
pOpulations are large and panmictic
(3), or that breeding units are small
enough so that stochastic processes play
a major role in determining equilibrium
frequencies (4). In each case, evalua-
tion of the adequacy of the model has
been hampered by lack of information
on the constitution and biology of local
populations.

During the summers of 1962 and
1963, pOpulations of Mus located on
SBVen farms in the Vicinity of Calgary,
Alberta, were the subjects of ecological
and genetic investigation. In the genetic
part of the study, 214 male mice were
caPtured in Sherman or Longworth
traps and taken to the laboratory for
test matings. Lethal alleles detected
thrOllgh these matings have been cross-
tested to determine their relationship
10 balanced lethal lines carrying alleles
Obtaln‘ed at other localities. Procedures
igsrtilmtlal testing and subsequent cross-
licatlilog have been described 1n the pub-

DS of Dunn and his co-workers
(1,5).
p1§§§tsffor heterozygosity were com-

76 01‘ 187 male mice. Of these,
whicﬁalrlne from established populations
0113 ad. not been disturbed by preV1-

Samphng. Tests showed 42 of the
10 JULY 1964

176 to be heterozygous at locus T. As
shown in Table 1, the bulk of these
heterozygotes carried alleles which were
found by cross-testing to be identical
with that designated by Dunn (5) as
group 3, and represented in these cross-
tests by Dunn’s t'”5 line. The overall
frequency of heterozygotes shown in
Table 1 is 0.238. This does not differ
signiﬁcantly from a value of 0.156 cal-
culated on the basis of tests of 153 male
mice from natural populations reported
for a continent-wide sampling in the
United States (I).

The transmission ratio of heterozy-
gotes may be estimated as the propor—
tion of mice receiving the dominant
marker (an allele for brachyury desig-
nated as T) from the female parent of
test stock which have also received the
lethal (t) from the wild male being
tested. For those heterozygotes carry-

 
 
  
     
 

ing an allele of the tw” group, the sam-
ple of offspring is suﬂicient for an
examination of this ratio, with 214 tail-
less (T t) to 13 brachyurous (T +),
giving a ratio of 0.942. This is not
signiﬁcantly different from the ratio of
0.941 reported for tw” heterozygotes
from New York (2). Alleles identical
with t”5 have been reported previously
from Florida, Connecticut, Vermont,
Texas, Arizona, Kansas, and Montana
(1).

Six heterozygotes were found to
carry t-alleles not identical with t"""’.
These are still being subjected to cross-
testing with other balanced lethal lines
and are tentatively designated as t“.
Table 2 shows that one tw” allele was
recovered from the Stryker farm in
1962, while the remaining ﬁve were
found on the Perry farm. Mice heter-
ozygous for t“ were found on both of
these farms. These two instances are
the ﬁrst in which t—alleles belonging to
two different groups have been discov-
ered in free-living populations inhabit-
ing an area as small as that of a single
cluster of farm buildings.

Table 2, together with Fig. 1, illus-
trates the local pattern of distribution
of t-alleles. Mice were found primarily
in buildings of small size: granaries,
toolsheds, chicken houses, and small
barns. The total number of mice found
in inhabited buildings ranged from 1

 

- 8
13
‘3
IA a” 3
RR
ELLIS 3 PE Y
loco.-..-.c.... D6 DHOUSE a
9 9
3 e
e E g
[I ”mammammaen mwmwawwauumaa
SHED -D.
F E D
1908;691:990 25 so 75
100 FEET
IIEBEJI
G H I J K
IL
"i
IBARN i.‘ . a
IE / [‘r o I z a 4 ‘5
~ ° .. - ' .1...
25 so 75 scan: or was
[00 net <

 

 

Fig. 1. The distribution of
lower right.

and letters relate these

 

Distribution of buildings on the

’ t' led outlines indicate .
Of those StUdled. S 1pbuildings to the data presented in Table 2.

farms from which mice were taken is shown in the inset at

Ellis and Perry farms is shown as typical
buildings from which samples were taken

1'77

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Table 1. Overall frequency of t-alleles in male
mice from the vicinity of Calgary, Alberta.

 

 

No. of Geno- Fre- Gene
mice types quency frequency
134 ++ 0.761 + : 0.081

36 +tw5 0.205 tw“ : 0.102
6 +tw‘” 0.034 tww = 0.017

 

 

to 84, with a mean of 10.4 individuals
for buildings where two or more mice
were found. On the basis of the be-
havioral observations of Eible-Eibes—
feldt (6) on Mus, and the segregation
of social groups observed in a Norway
rat colony by Calhoun (7), each build-
ing might be expected to contain one
or more family groups reproductively

Table 2. Distribution of genotypes among
male mice from seven sets of farm buildings.

Genotypes 1962i Genotypes 1963i

 

 

 

 

Farms*
++ +tw5+tww ++ +tw5+tww
Ellis
A 0 1 0 2 0 0
B 0 4 0 2 1 0
G 0 1 0
l 1 0 0 3 0 0
J 0 1 0
K 3 0 O 3 0 0
L 1 3 0
N 0 1 0 1 2 0
0 1 1 0 3 4 0
Stryker
A 0 0
B 0 0 0
C 1 0 0
D 1 O 0 3 0 0
E 5 0 0
F 1 1 0
G 2 O 0
H 2 3 0
I 1 0 0
J 5 1 1 2 O 0
Dunn
A 3 0 0
B 1 0 0 3 0 0
C O 1 0 2 1 0
D 1 1 0 10 1 0
Peterson
A 0 1 0
B 3 0 0 1 0 0
D 4 1 0
S oderburg
A 1 0
Cary
B 0 1 O
C 1 0 0 11 0 0
E 5 0 0
F 7 0 0
Perry
B 1 0 2
C 0 0 2
D 2 0 0
F 4 0 1
H 31 4 0
Totals
36 21 12 1 1 13 24 5
* Letters indicate individual buildings. “r In

1962 some buildings were sampled a second time.
Tests included in this table refer only to the ﬁrst
sampling in each speciﬁc building. I In 1962
only adult males were tested. In 1963 juvenile
and immature males were also retained for testing.

178

‘ ‘7"" '. ‘27-: 2:41;; ,, ,
.2’1344‘)‘ 6-7 ‘_ 3’3 in _ “L. .

isolated from other such groups through
defense of communal territories. The
pattern of gene distribution I have ob-
served appears to support such a hy-
pothesis. Adjacent grOUpS differ in ge-
netic composition and these differences
have persisted for 2 years despite
gross disturbances incurred when males
were removed for testing in 1962. Dur-
ing these sampling Operations, 65 per-
cent of male mice known to be present
through previous mark-and-release cen—
suses were removed. Of 13 buildings
inhabited in both years, none of six
buildings where heterozygotes were not
found in 1962 had acquired t-alleles in
1963. Of the seven buildings where
heterozygotes did occur in 1962, all
but two produced animals heterozygous
for the same allele in 1963.

The pattern of distribution on the
Perry farm is particularly interesting.
There the very large p0pulation in
building H produced mice heterozygous
for t“, but almost certainly did not con-
tain mice heterozygous for t“, which
was carried by mice in buildings B, C
and F only a few meters distant.

In 1962 one t'”5 heterozygote was
taken on the Cary farm, in building B.
In 1963 this deme had become extinct.
but a total of 23 males were tested from
three other granaries and an abandoned
hen house, all within 30 meters, with-
out discovery of a heterozygote. It thus
appears that no deme on this farm now
carries the allele.

The patterns of local distribution ob-
served suggest that immigration of mice
into established populations is very
rare. Such a possibility has been sug-
gested by the work of Godfrey (8)
with voles. The demes discussed herein
are of very small size, and the random
pattern of distribution of t-alleles may
be interpreted as supporting the con-
tention of Lewontin and Dunn (4) that
stochastic processes may play a signiﬁ-
cant role in the evolutionary dynamics
of these alleles.

PAUL K. ANDERSON
Department of Biology,
University of Alberta, Calgary

References and Notes

1. L. C. Dunn, A. B. Beasle H T'
Mammal 41, 220 (1960). y’ ' mker’ ’-

2. L. C. Dunn, Proc. Natl. Acad. S

158 (1957). CL U'S' 43'
i. 11:. Bruck, ibid., p. 152.
. . C. Lewontin and L. C. D ‘

705 (1960). unn, Genetics 45,
2. L. Cﬁgunn, ibid. 42, 299 (1957).
. . i l-Eibesfeldt. Z. T'

(1950). , terpsychol. 7, 558
7

. J. B. Calhoun, U.S. P bl‘ H r
1008 (1963). u re ealth Sen. Publ.

 

8. J. Godfrey. Proc. Roy. Phys. Soc. '

27' 47’ (1958). Edinburgh

9, 1 thank L. C. Dunn of Columbia University
for supplying test stock and for conducting
cross-testing of alleles in 1962. My work was
supported by a grant from the National Re-
search Council of Canada.

18 May 1964

Hypertensive Vascular Disease

Produced by Homologous Renin

Abstract. Administration of rat renin
to uninephrectomized rats reproduced
most, if not all, the changes (hyper-
tension, vascular disease, hypertrophy
of the zona g/omerulosa of the adre-
nals) found after partial constriction
of the renal artery. This is taken as evi-
dence that the renal pressor system plays
a major role in the pathogenesis of renal
hypertension.

On the assumption that renal hy-
pertension results from increased re-
lease of renin. various, but unsuccessful,
attempts have been made to reproduce
the course of renal hypertensive disease
by administering renin to normal ani-
mals. Subcutaneous injections or intra-
venous infusions of renin caused a slight
rise in arterial pressure but no vascular
lesions ( I, 2). These failures have been
used as supporting evidence by those
who believe that the renal pressor sys-
tem has no part in the pathogenesis of
hypertension.

Recently (3). we found that unlike
hog renin, crude extracts of rat kidneys
which had been subjected to redllCed
perfusion pressure reproduced the early
manifestations of renal hypertensmp
when injected subcutaneously into unl-
nephrectomized rats. We then postulated
that renal hypertension was caused .by
the release of renin and of a potenttat-
ing substance. The possibility remalned,
however, that the ineffectiveness of hog
renin was due to its heterologous nature-
We therefore decided to study theef-
fects of rat renin alone or in combllfa'
tion with crude kidney extracts. BY. 1n-
jecting renin into uninephrectomlle
animals we hoped to reproduch the
Changes associated with hypertens.10n. in
rats with unilateral and partial (fllplﬂng
0f the renal artery: if the inlﬁ’ﬁtfonS
were to replace the endocrine func.t1<_)nS
0f the clipped kidney, the remalnlntg
kidney of the uninephrectomlzed ra 5

se
should show the same Changes as thf:he
seen in the one contralateral to
clipped kidney.
L. 145

SCIENCE, V0

 




Female Sprague-Dawley rats weigh-
ing between 130 to 155 g were uni-

Table 1. Effects of rat renin in uninephrectomized rats.

 

 

 

 

 

h ctomized and divided into four Group and BOdy weight (g) Heart Kidney Thymus Urine ﬂow
nep 1'3 . . . treatment . . . (mg)* (mg) (mg) (ml/day)
groups of Six animals each. The animals Inltlal Final
in each group recewed mlectlons as f01- 1. Kidney extract 14028.5 160: 8.5 331:125 8931—468 398:149 14.2: 5.2
lows: group 1, crude kldney extracts; 2 R t , 13

. . . a 1' +
group 2, rat rem“; group 3, mt renin enm 5_7.0 151: 7.4 414:279 992:742 2281492 37.5:11.1
plus crude kidney extracts; the rats in 3- Raﬁrienm antd 148+

o n u n g +

group 4 received salme IUJCCtlons. Crude 1 ney ex ract __7.8 153_12 422i35.4 1042:84 2131-809 26.3: 7.5
extracts were prepared by grinding 4. Control 14517.4 162: 6.6 332:154 9021-893 363:441 6.8:: .87
fTeSh normal rat kidneys With diStilled *Estimated as percentage of body weight.
water (2 ml per kidney) in a Potter
homogenizer and centrifugation at
36008 for 20 minutes. The supernatant showed subcutaneous induration at the droplets. On gross examination, the

was injected at a total rate of 1.2 ml per
day. Rat renin was prepared from 3 kg
of normal kidneys (4) according to
the procedure of Haas et al. (5); this
included ammonium sulfate fractiona-
tion. The ﬁnal product tested against
hog renin (6) had a speciﬁc activity of
6 Goldblatt units per milligram of sol-
ids (7). The total daily dose was 60
units dissolved in 1.2 ml of saline. Ani-
mals of group 3 received a total daily
volume of 2.4 ml consisting of 1.2 ml
of the rat renin solution and of 1.2 ml
of kidney extracts mixed together. The
different preparations were administered
daily in three equally divided subcu-
taneous injections every 8 hours. Treat-
ment was started about 4 hours after
uninephrectomy.

The animals were placed in metab-
olism cages, fed Purina Fox Chow and
given tap water to drink. Blood pres-
sure was measured by tail sphygmog-
rflphy just prior to the 5 o’clock injec-
tlon. Urine ﬂow and body weight were
also recorded daily. Because of a limited
Supply of renin, animals were killed on
the 10th day, starting 6 hours after the
last injection. Blood was collected dur-
lng ether anesthesia, ethylenediamine-
tetraacetic acid (EDTA) (3 to 5 X
104.44) being used as anticoagulant and
angiotensinase inhibitor (8). After cen-
trifugation in the cold, the cell-free
Plasma was kept in the freezer and then
assayed for pressor activity following
Incubation at 37°C for 2 hours. The as-
say Was carried out in pentolinium-
tl‘eated rats. Tissues were weighed, ex-
amlned for gross lesions, and prepared
er histologic studies. A part of each
kldflﬁfy Was kept frozen until pressor
act1v1ty of saline extracts could be as-
sayed in rats nephrectomized 24 hours
Previously.

Treatment did not interfere with
Irleormal growth except in rats which
tCelved renin plus crude kidney ex-
facts (Table 1). These animals also
10 JULY 1964

sites of injection. Urine ﬂow was slight-
ly increased in animals receiving injec-
tions of crude extracts (group 1). This
increase was more pronounced in groups
2 and 3, diuresis occurring on the 2nd
day of treatment and persisting at the
same level until the end. Blood pressure
values in the control group 4 showed
the normal variations expected from
the method (Fig. 1). The rats in group
1 remained normotensive;those in groups
2 and 3 showed normal values during
the ﬁrst 4 days, then a progressive rise
to hypertensive levels. On the 10th
day, blood pressure averages with stan-
dard deviations for each of the four
groups were 127 i 4.2, 194 :L- 19.1,
180 i 17.6, and 117 i 9.9 mm-Hg,
respectively. The degree of hyperten-
sion was similar in groups 2 and 3, in-
dicating that addition of kidney extracts
(group 3) did not modify the effects of
renin in spite of subcutaneous inﬂam-
matory reactions. Heart weights, either
absolute or expressed as percentages of
body weight, paralleled changes in pres-
sure; they were normal in group 1 and
signiﬁcantly increased in the two groups
which showed hypertension (< .01). In
groups 2 and 3 the kidneys were slight-
ly enlarged and the thymus slightly
atrophic; this atrophy reﬂects adrenal
stimulation probably resulting from the
severity of hypertensive disease.

For the four groups the average
weights of the adrenal glands were
61.3 i 7.7, 67.7 :t 9.25, 68 i 6.2, and
59.2 :L- 6.5 mg, respectively. The in-
crease in groups 2 and 3 over the con-
trol value of 59.2 is signiﬁcant (< .05).
The width of the zona glomerulosa in
groups 2 and 3 was about twice that
in groups 1 and 4. Hi'stologically, the
zona glomerulosa in groups 1 and 4
consisted of closely packed cells with
little cytoplasm and few lipids; .1n
groups 2 and 3, cells were larger W1th
a clear cytoplasm, arranged in well-de-
ﬁned clusters and loaded with lip1d

kidneys of rats in group 1 appeared
normal; those of groups 2 and 3 were
somewhat enlarged, edematous, and
exhibited irregular and mottled sur-
faces. Some had small petechiae. On
histological examination, the renal le-
sions consisted of marked deposits of
hyalin material in the glomerular tufts,
tubular dilatations and casts, and arteri-
olar necrosis. These changes are similar
to those seen in kidneys contralateral
to clamped kidneys. In three rats of
group 2, and in four rats of group 3,
the hearts had an irregular surface with
prominent white patches of necrosis
mostly on the right ventricular wall; the
same animals showed small nodules
characteristic of arteritis, on the branch-
es of the hepatic artery. These lesions
were veriﬁed by histologic examination.

Assay of nonincubated and incubated

' plasma showed that the pressor activity

in the rats which received rat renin
(groups 2 and 3) was about 5 times as
great as that found in the control group
(7.28 :L- 4.6 nanograms as compared
with 1.29 i- .5 ng of angiotensin equiv-
alents per milliliter). The renin content
of the kidneys was slightly but not
signiﬁcantly decreased in rats receiving
kidney extracts (group 1), but markedly
depressed in groups 2 and 3 treated
with renin. The following values were
obtained for each of the four groups:
5.3 :15, 1.9 :I: 1.3, 1.5 -_'-1.3, and
7.8 i- 4.7 Goldblatt units per gram of
tissue.

Our results show that injections of
rat renin into uninephrectomized rats
reproduced not only hypertension and
hypertensive vascular disease as caused
by various renal manipulations or hor-
monal treatments, but also the speciﬁc
changes seen in hypertensive rats with
the left renal artery partially clipped
and the right renal artery left untouched.
In the latter there is a marked decrease
in renin content of the right kidney (9)
and an increase in aldosterone secre-

179

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

200

 

ARTERIAL PRESSURE IN mmHg.

 

DAYS

Fig. "1. Curves of the blood pressure of
rats injected with extracts of rat kidneys
(curve 1), rat renin (curve 2), rat renin
and extracts of rat kidneys (curve 3), and
saline (curve 4).

tion (10). Similarly, we found a de-
crease in the renin content of the re-
maining kidneys of uninephrectomized
rats treated with renin and an increase
in the width of the zona glomerulosa
of the adrenals, which is the generally
accepted site of aldosterone synthesis.

Evidently, homologous renin repro-
duced the effects of the endocrine se-
cretions of clipped kidneys, thus elim-
inating the need to postulate the exist-
ence of another renal factor. Although
the renin preparation was crude, it is
likely that renin and not impurities
were responsible for the effects de-
scribed since treatment with angiotensin
can also elicit sustained elevation of
blood pressure accompanied by inhibi-
tion of renin formation and stimulation
of aldosterone release (11). The
amounts of renin administered may ap-
pear enormous when compared with
the intravenous dose necessary to pro-
duce a similar acute pressor effect; how-
ever, presumably only an inﬁnitesimal
part reaches the blood stream, since no
increase in blood pressure was detected
before the 4th day.

The acute pressor activity which fol-
lows intravenous administration might
best explain the development of hy-
pertension after prolonged treatment.
All the evidence indicates a more com-
plex mechanism. Indeed, one point
common to this type of experiment with
renin or angiotensin (II, 12) is the
delayed appearance of hypertension.
This latent period suggests that a crit-
ical amount of pressor material should
accumulate before it raises arterial pres-
sure by direct effeet on the vascular
system. This is unlikely because of the

180

 

 

short half-life of angiotensin of less
than 30 minutes (13) and the abrupt
fall in pressure on cessation of angio-
tensin infusion (12). As an alternative,
the existence of secondary mechanisms
which may be nervous or endocrine
has to be considered. One possible ner-
vous mechanism is based on the ability
of angiotensin to intensify normal neu-
rogenic vasomotor activity (14). It has
also been proposed (12) that angio-
tensin may cause speciﬁc cerebral vaso-
constriction, which would in turn alter
the activity of medullary vasoconstric-
tor centers.

The endocrine effects of angiotensin
are better documented. Administration
of renin, or angiotensin, in subpressor
dose-s stimulates speciﬁcally aldosterone
secretion; clinical and experimental
renal hypertension are associated with
aldosteronemia; aldosterone causes hy-
pertension; administration of renin to
aldosterone-treated rats precipitates a
syndrome reminiscent of malignant hy-
pertension (15). There is, however, no
evidence that during the prehyperten-
sive phase the renin—angiotensin-aldo-
sterone system is activated to the point
of being a determining factor in the
evolution of hypertension. Hypertension
probably cannot be explained accord-
ing to a single scheme; each of these
mechanisms may participate from the
beginning, acting either together or in
succession, and in the course of hyper-
tension one of them may become pre-
dominant.

GEORGES M. C. MASSON
CHUJIRO KASHI]
MASATO MATSUNAGA
IRVINE H. PAGE
Research Division,
Cleveland Clinic Foundation,
Cleveland, Ohio

References and Notes

1. G. M. C. Masson. A. C. Corcoran. I. H.
Page. Am. J. Physiol. 162, 379 (1950).
2, R BABllackSet, A. Depoorter, G. M. Picker-
ing. . . ellers, G. M. Wilson. CI' '
9, 223 (1950). m. SCI.
3. G. M. C. Masson C Kashii J C Pani
, . . . . t
s. Yagi, 1. H. Page, Circulat' R sse'
(1964). ton es. 14, 150

4. Our thanks to S Hoobler Universit
. . . . , y of
Michlgan, and W. Wagner, Ciba Pharmaceu-

' tical Products Inc., for the supply of normal
kidneys.

5. E. Haas H. Lamfrom H Goldbla

. , . . . tt, A .

6 gaochem. Biophys. 48, 256 (1954). rCh

. lS preparation graciously supplied to us b
Harry Goldblatt had a speciﬁc activity of 135,
7 1113mm per milligram.
. . Haas, H. Goldblatt Am J ‘
1103 (1959). , . . Physml. 197,

8. P. A. Khairallah, F. M. Bumpus, I. H. Pace
R. R. Smeby, Science 140, 672 (1963i. ° ’

9. D. Regoh, H. Brunner, G. Peters, F. Gross

10 grog. Soc. gxplti. Biol. Med. 109, 142 (1962),

. . Inger, . osito, S. Sal ‘ '

Kinol. 44, 505 (1963). mm, Add Endo-

.J. Marx H W Deane T F M

, . . , . . owl
Scheppard, Endocrinology 73, 329 (1963:: H.

11.

12. C. J. Dickinson, J. R. Lawrence
1963-1, 1354 (1963). ’

13. P. A. Khairallah, I. H. Page, F. M, Btlmpus
R. R. Smeby, Science 138, 523 (1963). ’

14. J. W. McCubbin and I. H. Page, ibid, 139
210 (1963). ’

15. Reviewed in “International Symposium on
Angiotensin. Sodium and Hypertension,” Can.
Med. Assoc. J. 90. 153 (1963).

16. Supported in part by grant H-6835 from the
National Heart Institute.

Lancet

20 May 1964

Attention, Vigilance, and Cortical

Evoked-Potentials in Humans

Abstract. Computer—averaged poten-
tials evoked from the cortex were re-
corded to nonsignal stimuli and to
randomly interspersed signal stimuli
requiring detection and response dur-
ing prolonged visual vigilance. As de-
tection eﬁiciency diminished over time,
the amplitude of evoked responses to
nonsignal stimuli decreased and la-
tency increased. Fluctuations in vigi-
lance (attentiveness) during the course
of the task also were accompanied by
corresponding changes in evoked-po-
tentials to nonsignal stimuli. More
speciﬁc lapses of attention, revealed by
detection failures. resulted in average
evoked-responses of lower amplitude to
missed as compared with detected sig-
nals.

Recent research has been focused on
possible neural mechanisms mediating
ﬂuctuations in attentiveness. Several re-
ports have dealt with changes in
evoked-responses to sensory stimuli
during attentive and inattentive states
(1). Most of this work has been con-
ducted with animals, although there
have been a few reports of expen—
ments carried out with human sub-
jects (2). Thus far. the results have
been largely inconclusive, due, we be-
lieve, to methods of varying and meas-
uring attentiveness. .

One area of psychological investlga‘
tion which has been intensively con-
cerned with short— and long-term 111.10“
tuations of attention is that dealing Wlth
performance on "vigilance tasks” (3)-
Most workers in this ﬁeld agree that
failures in signal detection an .
long-term decrement and ﬂuctuations 1n
Performance that characterize 511?
tasks can be attributed to Changes 1n
the observer’s state of attentiveness. 0‘
COrdiﬂgly, the experiment descrlbe
herein was designed for investigating
changes in the potentials evokedlfrom
the human cortex averaged ‘19“? 3
Vigilance task requiring visual dlscrlml
voL, 145

SCIENCE:

 




 

nation and response. Detection per-
formance was used as a behavioral
measure of attention and inattention.
A vigilance task lasting 80 to 100
minutes was performed on ﬁve oc-
casions by each of three subjects. The
task required a key-pressing response
to dim ﬂashes (signals) aperiodically in-
terspersed among more numerous
brighter ﬂashes (neutral, nonsignal
stimuli) requiring no response. The
light ﬂashes were produced by two
Grass PS-l photostimulators set at in-
tensity 4, and diﬂused through an opal
glass bowl upon a 10 X 12-cm ﬂashed-
opal glass screen located at the end of a
viewing tube 30 cm from the subject’s
eyes. Flashes occurred at a rate of one
every 3 seconds; non-signal ﬂashes had
a luminance value of 15 lam and signal
ﬂashes were approximately 0.2 log units
dimmer with luminance of 9 lam (4).
The electroencephalogram was re-
corded from the scalp over the right oc-
cipital cortex with a Grass model VI
electroencephalograph, the electrode
being sited approximately 2.5 cm above
the inion and 2.5 cm to the right of the
midline (02). The other electrode was
over the midline vertex (C2). Evoked-
responses to the ﬂash stimuli were re-
corded on a frequency-modulated tape
recorder, and time-averaging was ac-
complished by a Mnemotron computer
of average transients, since regular
electroencephalographic recordings do
not reveal the minute responses to
individual ﬂashes. Eye movements were
also recorded for control purposes.
During each 5-minute period of the
task 100 bright (nonsignal) and 10 dim
(Signal) stimuli were presented. This
enabled computation of two kinds of
aVerage evoked-potentials. Averages of
res130nses to the 100 nonsignal stimuli
Presented during each successive 5-min-
Ute Period of the task provided data
Forresponding to ﬂuctuations in observ-
1ng-behavior or attentiveness and to
overall decrement in vigilance. Evoked-
responses to signal stimuli, separately
COmpllted according to whether or not
the SUbject correctly detected each sig—
nal, provided data corresponding to spe-
°1ﬁc attention and inattention to these
Stimuli, as deﬁned by detection be-
havior.
. The evoked-potentials to ﬂash stimu-
11 Which are recorded from the human
Scalp typically consist of complex series
0_ Waves. In this experiment the prin-
C1pal identiﬁable component of the re-
SROnSe Was a prominent negative wave
Wlth Peak latency of about 160 msec.

10 JULY 1964

For purposes of quantitative analysis of
the evoked-potentials, the amplitude
(trough-peak-trough) and latency of
this peak were measured.

Characteristic of performance in vigi-
lance tasks of the type used here is a
decline in detection eﬂiciency with time.
In this experiment the combined data
show that the percentage of signals cor-
rectly detected in each 5-minute period
of the task declined from a mean of
about 80 percent at the beginning to
about 50 percent at the end. During
the same time the amplitude of the
average evoked-responses to nonsignal
stimuli decreased from a mean of about
13 to 10 luv, and the mean latency in-
creased from approximately 155 to 165
msec. The rank-order correlation be-
tween the percentage of correct detec-
tions and the evoked-potential ampli-
tude was + 0.75, and that between per-
centage correct and evoked—potential
latency was —0.75.

Figure 1 illustrates typical experimen-
tal sessions for two subjects, RN. and
M.H. Each trace shows the average
evoked-potentials to 100 nonsignal
stimuli presented during each 5-minute
period of the task. The column to the

right shows the percentage of correct
detections of signal stimuli which were
randomly interspersed during the same
time period. During most experimental
sessions, there was an overall progres-
sive decline in the amplitude and an
increase in the peak-latency of the prin-
cipal component of the average evoked-
response and a corresponding reduction
in the percentage of signals correctly
detected. This result is shown clearly
for subject P.N., but is less marked for
subject M.H. whose performance in the
vigilance task was very stable during
this session.

In addition to these overall trends
showing a correspondence between vigi-
lance decrement and evoked-potentials,
there were briefer concurrent ﬂuctua-
tions in detection performance and
evoked-potentials which were very pro-
nounced in some experimental sessions.
For example, Fig. 1 shows that in the
5-minute period 9 for subject RN. and
the 5—minute period 11 for subject
M.H., low performance eﬂiciency was
associated with relatively low amplitude
of the evoked-potentials. Frequently, in
adjacent 5-minute periods there were
contrasting increases in amplitude of

 

 

  
 

 

 

'I.
927333 PN SESSION 2 pialéoi MH SESSION 4 0......
I .
93 l 90
2 IOO 3 90
3 9|
. 5 50
4
IOO 7 7O
5 . _ . 90
6 1 69 9 70
7 69 4o
8 83 ll
54 I3 80
I?) 58
56 I5 70
ll , 55 M
'2 45 [7 70
'3 3|
l4 2
2 I9'
I5
'6 40 4 5m!
M 5m FLASH IOO msecs
FLfSH I00 mucs l

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

' ' ' ' ted dur-
‘d- otentIals for 100 nons1gnal stimull presen
Fig. 1’ Comp uter-averaged evoke pvisual vigilance task, together W1th the percentages

ing successive 5-minute periods of a
of randomly interspersed Slgnal stlmu .
Recordings: occipital to vertex reference,

1i correctly detected during the same time periods,
negativity upward. Subjects RN. and M.H.

181

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

49 '
. CORRECT
DETECTIONSI

I 151w

49
MISSES I

  

MH SESSION 4

79
CORRECT
DETECTIONSI

  
     

79 '

MISSES PS SESSION 4
h—-——4

 

 

t
FL’iSH I00 msec

 

Fig. 2. Computer-averaged evoked-poten-
tials for equal numbers of detected and
missed signal stimuli by subjects M.H.
and RS. Both subjects show evoked-
responses of reduced amplitude to the
missed signals.

evoked-potentials and performance ef-
ﬁciency. These relatively short-term
ﬂuctuations in detection performance
and in evoked—potentials to nonsignal
stimuli appear to reﬂect changes in the
subject’s attentive state.

Heretofore the average evoked-po-
tentials were computed for nonsignal
stimuli only and reﬂect long-term
changes in vigilance and shorter-term
fluctuations in attentiveness. To focus
upon a more speciﬁc aspect of attention
pertaining to the detection of speciﬁc
signal stimuli, average evoked-responses
to signal stimuli were separately com-
puted for signals which were correctly
detected, and for those which were not
detected, thus contrasting attentive and
non-attentive conditions. Figure 2 shows
clearly the differences between the
evoked-potentials under these two con-
ditions. The evoked-responses to sig-
nals which a subject failed to detect
(misses) during an experiment were
typically reduced in amplitude as com-
pared with those of an equal number
of signals which were correctly detect-
ed. These differences between detected
and missed signals were equally marked
during both early and late stages of
the experimental task, thus showing
that the differences were not dependent
upon the general decline of vigilance.
In all 15 experiments the differences
were in the same direction; however,
the magnitude of the differences varied
considerably.

These results indicate that reduced
attentiveness, as measured objectively

182

by signal detection in a Vigilance task,
is paralleled by corresponding reduc-
tions in amplitude of visual, cortical
evoked—potentials in humans. Although
this experiment did not deal speciﬁcally
with the related question of whether
enhanced attentiveness increases the
amplitude of the evoked potential, re-
sults obtained by Davis (5) in an audi-
tory discrimination situation indicate
that this may be the case.

In vigilance research many workers
have long been aware of the need for
an independent measure of observing-
behavior (attentive states) during those
periods of the task when signal stimuli
are not presented. The evoked-potential
data for the nonsignal stimuli indicate
that as vigilance, deﬁned by detection
performance, ﬂuctuated and declined
during the course of the task, there
were corresponding changes in the
evoked-potentials to these stimuli.
Thus, changes in the amplitude and
latency of the evoked-potentials to
non-signal stimuli may serve as a di-
rect measure of observing-behavior in
vigilance tasks of this type. Addition-
ally, evoked-potentials averaged sepa-
rately for speciﬁc signals to which the
subject is instructed to respond, and to
which he may or may not respond, pro-
vide a measure of ﬂuctuations in focal
attentiveness.

MANFRED HAIDER*
PAUL SPONG
DONALD B. LINDSLEY
Department of Psychology,
University of California, Los Angeles

References and Notes

1. R. Hernandez-Peon, H. Scherrer, M. Jouvet,
Science 123, 331 (1956); R. Hernandez-Peon,
C. Guzman—Flores, M. Alcaraz, A. Fernandez-
Guardiola, Acta Neurol. Latinoam. 3, 1
(1957); M. Palestini, A. Davidovich, R. Her-
nandez-Peon, Acta Neurol. Latinoam. 5, 113
(1959); D. H. Hubel, C. O. Henson, A.
Rupert, R. Galambos, Science 129, 1279
(1959); G. Horn, Brain 83, 57 (1960).

2. M. Jouvet, Psychol. Franc. 2, 254 (1957);
J. Bogacz, A. Vanzulli, E. Garcia-Austt
Acta Neurol. Latinoam. s, 244 (1962); M. w:
Van Hof, J. Van Hof-Van Duin, F. Van der
Mark. W. J. Rietveld, Acta Physiol. Pharma-
col. Neerl. 11, 485 (1962).

3. figiéancla A Symposium, D. W. Buckner and
. . cGrath, Eds. McGraw- '

York. 1963). ( Hlu’ New

. Measured by Spectra Brightness Spot Meter

(Photo Research Corp.) at various flash rates
and extrapolated.

. H. Davis, Science, this issue.

. Supported by Army contract DA-49-007—MD-
722 and aided by Navy contract Nonr 233
(32). We are indebted to the Data Processing
Laboratory, Brain Research Institute, U.C.L.A.
for use of equipment and facilities. We thank
J_. D. Wicke and E. Donchin for their as-
srstance.

* USPHS international postdoctoral research
fellow (FF-534). Permanent address: Hygiene
Institute, University of Vienna.

24 April 1964

GUI

 

Enhancement of Evoked Cortical
Potentials in Humans Related to
a Task Requiring a Decision

Abstract. The averaged, slow re-
sponse evoked by auditory stimuli
and recorded from the vertex of the
human skull can usually be enhanced
by requiring the listener to make a
rather difﬁcult auditory discrimination.
An easy routine reaction is not effective.

An electroencephalographic response
to auditory, visual or tactile stimuli (I)
can readily be recorded from the vertex
of the human skull by means of an
average response computer. The re-
sponse is polyphasic, with a well-
marked negative peak at about 100
msec (for auditory stimuli) and a pos-
itive peak at about 175 msec.

Actually this slow evoked response,
from 50 to 500 msec after the stimulus,
is very complex. We think we can ree-
ognize at least four components which
overlap more or less and which may
vary independently both across sub-
jects and across conditions. Analysis of
these wave forms will be presented else-
where, but a useful approximate mea-
sure is the peak—to-peak voltage from
the (largest) negative peak at about 100
msec to the (largest) positive peak be-
tween 150 and 200 msec (2).

The slow response in question must
not be confused with earlier evoked
responses, at 50 msec or less, thCh
are chieﬂy muscular in origin (3),.The
latter are best recorded near the inlon
or over the temporalis muscle and are
increased by increase of resting mus—
cular tone. Our slow responses are best
recorded from the vertex, which IS
remote from major muscles, 01' from
more frontal areas and they are un-
affected by changes in muscular tone-
Their slow time course and very 1.01m
recovery period are hardly compatlble
With a muscular origin. On the OttteI
hand, the slow evoked responses (10
not originate in the primary audltOl'y‘
area. They arise diffusely from the
cortex near the top and front Of the
head and they are not speciﬁc to any
one sensory modality.

The amplitude of the Vttl‘ious sloW

' Waves varies not only with the intenelty

of, and the intervals between, the stun“

111i but with the individual subject, 1115
state of arousal, the novelty 0

stimulus, and other experimental 00f”
ditions. This average response Valle;
considerably from run to run, but It ~

SCIENCE, VOL- 145

 




 

not clearly inﬂuenced by simple tasks
such as “attending” to the stimuli,
counting them (2), or pressing a button
in response to each one. A more dif-
ﬁcult task, however, requiring an audi-
tory discrimination with the response,
has, in our experiments, almost always
caused an enhancement of the evoked
response.

The subject is seated in an easy
chair in front of a loudspeaker. Silver
disc electrodes are applied to his vertex
and right mastoid, and connected to
a conventional electroencephalograph.
The electroencephalographic output is
sampled at brief intervals for 375
msec after each stimulus and the
average response for each sample is
calculated by an online digital com-
puter that was designed and con-
structed in our institution (4). In the
series described in this report, the
evoked responses were brought out
quite effectively from the background
of electroencephalographic activity by
averaging 32 responses.

Tone pips (ﬁltered clicks) (5) were
delivered at regular intervals of 2.5
seconds. Four pips constituted a cycle.
The ﬁrst was low pitched (600 cy/ sec)
and served as a warning, as indicated
in column A of Fig. 1. The second,
third, and fourth were all of higher
pitch and of equal intensity except for
a small increment or decrement (3
db) that was added to or subtracted
from the third pip of the cycle in the
“decision” trials. The responses to pips
A, B, C, and D of each cycle were
averaged separately in different seg-
ments of the memory of the computer.

Eight experiments in all were per-
formed on six different subjects. A
tYpical result is shown in Fig. 1. In the
Control series (top line) the subject was
reading a magazine. The responses
Show the usual differences in ampli-
tUde. It is typical of this subject that
the negative wave at 100 msec is small
or absent in most of his responses.

In another series (bottom line) the
§ublect was instructed to press a button
Immediately after each “C” pip—that
IS, the second high-pitched one. The
Subject found this an easy routine.
Ne1ther he nor any other subject
tested showed any consistent difference
In response within the ﬁrst 375 msec
related to the simple act of pressing
the button.

In a third series (middle line) the

10 JULY 1964

SLOW AUDITORY EVOKED RESPONSES (VERTEX)

A B C D
WARNING STANDARD MAY HAVE AI (3 DB) CONTROL

 

 

CONTROL

READING
DECISION W

IS C>B ? -
RESPONSE ' W

EVERY TIME

AFTER C 4-
l0.! sec.I 15 pv
TONE PIPS eoo c/s \ Vi c—J

I200 c/s

Fig. 1. Slow responses evoked by auditory stimuli and recorded from the vertex. Tone
pips at about 70 db hearing level were delivered at the start of each trace. The intervals,
A—B, B—C, C—D, D—A, were all 2.5 seconds. Responses to 32 cycles were averaged.
AI (3 db) was added 10 times and also subtracted 10 times in the “decision” series.
Upward deﬂection indicates that the vertex is becoming more positive relative to the
right mastoid. The band-width of the electroencephalogram was 0.3 to 35 cy/sec.

subject was instructed to press the
button when, but only when, the sec-
ond high-pitched pip sounded louder
than the ﬁrst. Actually an increment
of 3 db was added 10 times during the
32 trials and 3 db were subtracted 10
times in quasi-random sequence. The
subtraction counter-balanced the very
slight enhancement that might be ex-
pected from a simple increase in loud-
ness (6). In this particular experiment
the subject scored the ten possible hits,
but he also gave ﬁve “false alarms.”
His average evoked response to the test
stimulus during this trial (encircled in
the ﬁgure) is increased well beyond the
usual range of variation. In many runs
with other subjects the response to B
is also increased, but less than C, and
the response to D is either unchanged
or diminished.

Our ﬁrst ﬁve subjects showed this
pattern of change in nearly every run.
One subject consistently showed, in
addition, an increase in a late positive
wave at about 300 msec. Our sixth
subject, however, failed consistently to
show any differences related to the task,
although she ﬁnally achieved a perfect
score of 12 hits, no misses, and no
false alarms in a sequence of 32 cycles
from which the decrements of intensny
were omitted. It may or may not be
signiﬁcant that she was the only sub-
ject who was quite new to such an

experimental situation. In addition, al-

though she clearly understood the task,
she did not speak English ﬂuently. All
of her averaged evoked potentials were
relatively large, although not ex-
tremely so.

We encounter many differences in
the slow evoked responses, both across
subjects and across trials. So far, the
task described above has been our
most consistent way of enhancing the
response. We believe that this effect of
making a rather diﬂicult sensory dis-
crimination is a counterpart of the re-
lation of the amplitude of the evoked
response to vigilance, recently demon-
strated by Haider et al. (7).

HALLOWELL DAVIS
Central Institute for the Deaf,
St. Louis, Missouri

References and Notes

1. P. A. Davis, J. Neurophysiol. 2, 494 (1939).

2. H. Davis and N. Yoshie, Physiologist 6, 164
(1963).

3. R. G. Bickford, R. F. Galbraith, J. L. Jacob-
son, Electroencephalog. Clin. Neurophysiol.
15, 720 (1963); T. Mast, Physiologist 6, 229
(1963).

4. A. M. Engcbretson, J. R. Cox, Jr., D. H.
Glaeser, in preparation.

5. The maximum amplitude of each pip is reached
by the third sound wave, regardless of fre-
quency. There is no plateau, and fall of
amplitude is nearly as fast as its rise.

6. Other studies, unpublished, show that the
expected enhancement would be less than
0.5 av.

7. M. Haider, P. Spong, D. B. Lindsley, Science,
this issue.

8. This investigation was supported by USPHS
program project grant No. NB-03856-02, from
NIH.

20 April 1964

183

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Air Pollution and Health

Health hazards caused by air pollu-
tion were discussed at the 7th annual
Air Pollution Medical Research Con—
ference in Los Angeles, 10-11 Febru-
ary 1964. The conference featured re-
ports on acute episodes of community
air pollution, studies of long-term ef-
fects of air pollution, experimental hu-
man exposure studies, experimental
animal and plant research, new meth-
ods for evaluating biologic signiﬁcance
of air pollution, mechanisms of in-
ﬁltrative lung disease, and epidemio-
logic methods for studying chronic
respiratory diseases.

In a lecture on “The Natural History
of Respiratory Tract Mucus: Secretion,
Transport, Disposition” Lynne Reid
(Brompton Hospital, London) described
the base-line activity of the cells secret-
ing mucus in the respiratory tract. In
the absence of stimuli such as Lon-
don smog, infection, and cigarette
smoke, secretion amounting to about
100 milliliters per day is thought to oc—
cur. The presence of various irritants
can lead to hypersecretion and can
eventually lead to hyperplasia. Chronic
bronchitis is characterized by hyper-
trophy ‘of the mucous gland layer, as
estimated by the gland-to-wall ratio.
A condition similar to chronic bronchi-
tis can be produced in rats by exposure
to sulfur dioxide. The cells secreting
mucus were studied by staining for
mucopolysaccharide before and after
subjecting the section to neuramini-
dase. After the addition of radioactive
sulfate to tissue culture, autoradiog-
raphy can be used to study secretory
activity.

Epidemic asthma in New Orleans oc-
curred again during 1963, according
to Weill et al. (New Orleans). Previ-
ous studies had implicated air pollu-
tion from a burning dump, and mea-
sures to control this condition had been
undertaken. It was hoped that the com-
parison of the 1963 data with those
of 1962 would show a decrease in the

184

Meetings

sharpness of the asthma episodes if
the burning dump were in fact a major
contributor to the asthma attacks. But,
contrary to what had been expected,
the outbreak peaks were higher, more
frequent, and there was a generally
higher incidence of daily admissions.
Sixty percent of the affected patients
reacted with positive skin tests to one
or more atmospheric sample extracts.
Of the patients studied only 31 per-
cent were cigarette smokers.

Greenburg and Field (New York)
studied asthma admissions to hospitals
in New York, and found abrupt in-
creases in the fall months which were
unassociated with high air pollution
levels or pollen or mold counts. Data
suggest that an abrupt onset of cold
weather is associated with increased'
asthma attacks. Booth et al. (Cincin-
nati) examined asthma admissions for
metropolitan hospitals in Washington,
D.C., Philadelphia, Chicago, Evanston.
Charleston, Norfolk, New York City,
and New Orleans. While seasonal trends
were observed, there was no evidence
of epidemics similar to those in New
Orleans.

Cassell et al. (New York) described
two acute air pollution episodes in New
York City. One occurred in November
and December 1962, and was associated
with increased frequency of chronic
cough in a population under weekly
surveillance. The other, in October
1963, was associated with increased eye
irritation but not 'with cough. Green-
burg and Field also studied these two
episodes. During the December 1962
episode in New York City they found
an increase in upper respiratory infec-
tions at ﬁve old-age homes. They found
no measurable change in morbidity
from other causes during the two in-
cidents of air pollution. These ﬁndings
suggest that New York City is expel-i-
encing air pollution episodes both of
an oxidizing (Los Angeles) type and
of a reducing (London) type, Data
from student nurses related the oxidant
level to eYe irritation (Hammer et al.,

 

Los Angeles). No association in this
group between cough or sneeze and
the oxidant level was shown.

In a discussion on long-term-effects
of air pollution, Phelps (Fort Belvoir,
Virginia) reported on a follow-up of
military personnel who ﬁrst developed
a respiratory disease while in the To-
kyo-Yokohama area. Of 244 cases who
were returned to the United States, 64
percent still had abnormal pulmonary
function in 1962, and emphysema was
present in some. Of 40 subjects who
had been back in the United States
for 2 or more years. 30 still had cough,
wheezing, and shortness of breath.
Most subjects still had signiﬁcant de-
creases in the forced expiratory volume,
and a few had actual increases in their
residual volume measurements. All but
one of these were cigarette smokers.
Anderson and Ferris (Vancouver, Brit-
ish Columbia and Boston) compared
respiratory surveys of two small com-
munities; one had signiﬁcant air pollu-
tion and the other had none. Survey
methods were very similar and in both
cases over 95 percent of the sample
was surveyed. Most of the differences
in respiratory rates could be explained
by differences in age and cigarette
smoking. When corrections were ap-
plied, there were no important dif-
ferences between these two communi-
ties. Pulmonary function results, cor-
rected for age and smoking categories,
were somewhat higher in the area with
low air pollution. Reasons other than
air pollution might explain the ﬁndings
With respect to pulmonary function.
Holland et a1. (London), using the
standardized respiratory survey and
with data from outside plant telephone
workers, compared the prevalence 0
respiratory ﬁndings in London, in .ru-
ral England, and in the eastern Unlted
States. Persistent cough and phlegm 1n
comparable groups were more frequent
in London compared with rural aféas
and least frequent in the eastern Clues
0f the United States. This gradlent
was conﬁrmed by the mean value 0
the l-second forced expiratory volume,
and by the volume of SPUtum' .
effects of smoking were prominent .111
all areas. Deane and GOIdsmlgh
(Berkeley), using comparable metho S
and populations in Los
San Francisco. found that SymptomS
among workmen in Los Angeles Wet
more frequent, but pulmonary
tests did not show signiﬁcant. _
ences between the two Californla 63:.
munities. Test results of Symptom

45
SCIENCE, VOL' 1

 




 

quencies and pulmonary function for
Los Angeles and San Francisco com-
bined were nearly identical with the
ﬁndings of Holland et al. in cities of
the eastern United States. Denson et
al. (New York), using comparable
methods, studied postmen in New
York City and found test values of
pulmonary function to be very slightly
lower than Holland’s data for outside-
plant phone workers. Frequency of
respiratory symptoms in postmen was
very similar to Holland’s ﬁndings for
outside plant workers. Denson reported
a lower frequency of respiratory symp-
toms in nonwhite populations. This
contrasts with the higher frequency of
asthma attacks among nonwhite
groups reported in studies of Green-
burg and Field. Denson found that the
respiratory absentee rate was higher
among persons
function.

Cederlof (Stockholm) reported on
comparisons of monozygotic twins with
respect to various symptom categories,
smoking habits, and places of resi-
dence. Smoking of cigarettes was asso-
ciated with increased prevalence of
cough and bronchitis, stomach disor-
ders, back troubles, and pains in the
chest. There were no demonstrable
differences for angina pectoris and
shortness of breath. There was virtually
no effect on symptoms in the twin
populations when one of the twins
lived in an urban area and one in a
rural area. Horton, reporting for Zeid-
berg et al. (Nashville) presented a
Statistical study of mortality from
cardiovascular disease in Nashville, in
relation to socio-economic factors and
air pollution. An inverse relation be-
tween socio-economic class and cardio-
VaSeular mortality was observed when
statlstical control of air pollution levels
Was used. Of the pollutants studied, a
consistent association was noted for
S'USpended particulate matter in rela-
tlorl to cardiovascular mortality.

ln discussing human exposure, Smith
(Rlverside, California) told how he
eXPOSed college students to the photo-
CheInlcal product, peroxyacetyl nitrate,
2:13; they were exercising. He ob-
GUrin an increase in uptake of. oxygen
bur )g the. exposure. Battigelli (Pitts-
diesge1 stud1ed the effects of d11uted
eI‘ties eghaust on the mechanical prop-
mograoh the lung With a body plethys-
SUres P f In human subjects. . Expo-
PTOduco . 1-hour duration .dld. not
res‘ e Slgniﬁcant changes 1n airway

IStanCe or pulmonary compliance
1° JULY 1964

with low pulmonary'

either at the time of exposure or later.
The concentrations were sufficient to
produce marked lacrymation. Hallett
(Duarte, California) compared the
acute effects of ozone with those of
cigarette smoke in human subjects.
Ozone exposures between 1 and 3
parts per million for up to half an
hour produced changes which were
more deﬁnite than those produced by
smoking one cigarette. A greater pro-
portion of subjects reacted to the
ozone. The effects observed were on
ventilatory function and diffusion ca-
pacity. Nadel et al. (San Francisco)
reported on inhalation of sulfur dioxide
at 4 to 6 parts per million for 10
minutes. This led in each of seven
healthy subjects to a decrease in the
ratio of conductance to thoracic gas
volume. One subject with a most
marked change began to cough se-
verely and became dyspneic and
wheezed. Supplementary studies on
cats indicated the bronchoconstriction
during acute inhalation to be depend-
ent upon intact parasympathetic path-
ways. He showed that the body plethys-
mograph can be used as an exposure
chamber and for monitoring airway
resistance and lung volume.
Experiments with animals were de-
scribed by Friberg (Stockholm). He
reported on studies of ciliated epithe-
lium in the rabbit trachea, initial work
on the generation and monitoring of
uptake and clearance of inhaled par-
ticles in rabbits, and the methods for
measuring the proportional absorption
of sulfur dioxide in the lung. At high
concentrations 95 percent of sulfur
dioxide is absorbed in the upper air-
way and 98 percent in the airway and
lungs. At lower concentrations, the
prOportions are 40 and 80 percent,
respectively. Buckley and Balchum (Los
Angeles) reported on oxygen uptake
by lung homogenate and other organs
of guinea pigs after acute and chronic
exposure to nitrogen dioxide. .In.both
groups of animals they found 1n51gn1ﬁ-
cant increases. in the oxygen uptake .Of
the lung homogenate and signiﬁcant 1n-
creases in oxygen uptake by the spleen
and kidney. No important Changes in
lactic dehydrogenase were obserVed-
Liver homogenate showed an Increase
after acute exposures but a decrease af-
ter chronic exposures; the decrease was
not signiﬁcant. In other exposures of
guinea pigs to nitrogen d10x1de, .Ba-
chum and Buckley showed that cucu-
lating antibody to normal lung protelns
developed. Exposures were to 5 part8 Of

nitrogen dioxide per million, 4 hours a
day, 5 days each week. Another group
was exposed for a longer period. Ap-
parently the titers increased with the
duration of exposure and with the
magnitude within the day. Gross et al.
(Pittsburgh) reported on the production
of chronic pulmonary ﬁbrosis in rats
after exposure to between 0.5 and 4
parts of phosgene per million. They -
were able to trace the evolution of
ﬁbrosis from thickening of the respira-
tory bronchiole to peripheral exten-
sion involving the alveolar ducts and
the alveolar sacs. These reactions are
in marked contrast to the acute pneu-
monitis occurring after higher levels
of exposure. Residual changes can be
identiﬁed as late as 3 months after ex-
posure. Aldehydes and other potential
cross-linking agents were formed in the-
lung of the rabbit after in vivo exposure
to ozone (Buell, Berkeley). Thin-layer
chromatography was used to analyze
the resulting hydrazones. Ozone also
appeared to affect the ground substance
of lung.

Reactions of vegetation were de-
scribed by a group from the Univer-
sity of California, Riverside. Ordin stud-
ied reactions of cell walls to peroxy-
acetyl nitrate and ozone. The agents
appear to inhibit the synthesis of cellu-
lose. Dugger reported on the effect of
peroxyacetyl nitrate on inhibiting pho-
tosynthetic phosphorylation and on the
formation of NADPH. This could be
prevented by ascorbate. The exposure
only causes inhibition in the light. Mudd
reported on the effects of peroxyacetyl
nitrates on the enzymes, pancreatic ribo-
nuclease, glucose-6-phosphate dehydro-
genase, and malic dehydrogenase. Both
peroxyacetyl nitrate and ozone can oxi-
dize reduced forms of nicotinic adenine
dinucleotides. The oxidation product is,
reactive when peroxyacetyl nitrate is
used but not when ozone is used. The
effect of sulfhydryls was also noted.

Estes and Pan (Galveston) described
effects of photochemical reaction
products on the activity of glutamic
dehydrogenase. The inhibition was
more rapid with a glutamate substrate
than for the reversed reaction; the op-
posite occurred when formaldehyde
was used to produce inhibition. It was
suggested that formaldehyde and glu-
tamic dehydrogenase form a product
serving as an electron donor.

In discussing techniques used for
monitoring biological reactions, Ep-
stein (Boston) compared the photo-
dynamic toxicity of polynuclear com-

185

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

pounds with their carcinogenicity and
presented data on the photodynamic
toxicity of atmospheric pollutant sam—
ples. Photodynamic toxicity is studied
by dark incubating, motile ciliates, pa—
ramecia, or tetrahymena, with polynu-
clear compounds to which they are
resistant in the absence of light. Sub-
sequent long-wave ultraviolet irradia—
tion, however, leads to severe toxic ef—
fects on the organism. Crocker et al.
(San Francisco) presented data on the
effects of carcinogenic hydrocarbons on
cell multiplication in organ cultures
from trachea of suckling rats. Hydro-—
carbons, such as 7,lZ-dimethylbenz[a]-
anthracene, benzialpyrene, and 3—meth-
ylcholanthrene were studied at differ-
ent concentrations. DNA synthesis in
basal cells increased before columnar
cells had changed in appearance. Meta—
plastic epithelium replaced differentiated
epithelium in a pattern dependent on
the hydrocarbon used. Withdrawal of
hydrocarbon permitted differentiated
cells to reappear while basal cell hyper-
plasia persisted. Mueller (Berkeley)
studied the effects of gas and particulate
matter in automobile exhaust on tissue
culture cells in vitro. The growth-stimu-
lating property appeared to be associ-
ated primarily with the particle phase
and was independent of changes result-
ing from ultraviolet irradiation. Rounds
and Bils (Pasadena), studying air pol-
lutant effects on tissue cultures, con-
cluded that all cell types tested showed
partial but reversible inhibition in oxi-
dative activity during treatment with
sodium nitrate (simulating N02 expo-
sures). Morphologic changes, includ-
ing reversible changes in the shape of
nucleus, the cytoplasm, and ultrastruc-
ture of mitochondria, occurred in
alveolar wall cells.

Nusbaum et al. (Los Angeles) re-
ported on the trace metal studies in
bone in relation to air pollution expo-
sure. Calvarium and rib samples re-
vealed no correlation between lead
levels and the duration of previous resi-
dence in Los Angeles. Specimens from
males had signiﬁcantly greater lead
concentrations than those from fe-
males. Twelve other metals were ex-
amined with emission spectroscopy.
Arsenic levels were obtained with wet
chemical methods. Curphey and Per-
kins -(Los Angeles and Berkeley) re-
ported on the carboxyhemoglobin levels
in individuals examined by the Los An-
geles County Coroner’s Ofﬁce. A smok-
ing history was obtained from the
next-of—kin, and the distribution of

186

carboxyhemoglobin levels in individuals
dead from cardiac disease resembled
very closely the comparable distribu—
tion obtained by expired air analysis in
the studies of living populations.
Pernis (Milano, Italy) described the
role of lymphocytes in inﬁltrative lung
disease. Experimental studies with guin-
ea pigs, immunized against ovalbumin,
involved inhalation of aerosols of ex-
tremely minute amounts. Despite the
absence of immediate anaphylactic re—
action, induration, which was largely
lymphocytic, was observed. Pernis then
considered whether haptens might be
capable of producing similar reactions
in occupational exposure. The implica-
tion of these mechanisms for effects of
complete antigens thought to be in-
volved in the farmer’s lung syndrome
were discussed. Similar effects were
thought to possibly play a role in sili-
cosis or coal worker’s pneumoconios-is.
Rankin et al. (Madison) reported on
agricultural dusts as an agent producing
inﬁltrative lung disease. They outlined
the experimental, immunologic, and
epidemiologic evidence relating thermo-
philic actinomyces as an agent causing
farmer’s lung. Rankin also reported
that certain industrial exposures to
polymers could lead to changes similar
to those predicted by Pernis.
Epidemiologic methods suitable for
air pollution studies were reported by
Blackburn et al. (Minneapolis) who
compared ventilatory function and res-
piratory conditions in active and seden—
tary railway employees. When correc-
tions were made for age and smoking,
clinical chest ﬁndings were used to test
the hypothesis that regular exercise of
the ventilatory apparatus may enhance
its efficiency and protect against the
development of chronic bronchopulmo-
nary disease. Only small and inconsist-
ent differences in ventilatory function
and respiratory complaints existed be-
tween sedentary and active workers.
Stone (New York) studied the fre-
quency of respiratory complaints among
volunteers in a telephone company. The
volunteers had signiﬁcantly less fre-
quent evidence of disease than did a
population in which all of the subjects
were available for study. Gocke et al.
(Jersey City) reported on a respiratory
survey in an industrial population of
men 40 to 64 years of age and com-
pared the results with the absence of
respiratory disease absenteeism. Cough,
exacerbations of cough and sputum,
shortness of breath, and the forced
expiratory volume in one second, were

 

best predictors of the absence of res-
piratory disease lasting one week or
more. Ury (Berkeley) presented a rank
order test for evaluating interviewer
agreement.

Two major new directions of re-
search were highlighted by the confer-
ence. One concerned the immunologic
mechanisms involved in air pollution
exposure. This includes the relationship
of air pollution with epidemic asthma
on the one hand. and inﬁltrative lung
disease on the other. A second was the
use of reactions Of biochemical, tissue,
or organ culture. and protozoa to pollu—
tants, especially to potential carcino-
gens, as biological pollution monitors.

The meetings were held at the Los
Angeles County Medical Association
with the assistance of the Engineering
and Sciences Extension of the Univer-
sity of California.

The conference was supported in part
by a grant from the Division of Air
Pollution, Public Health Service, and
sponsored by the California State De-
partment of Health. It is planned that
the complete proceedings will be pub-
lished in early 1965 in the Archives of
Environmental Health.

JOHN R. GOLDSMITH
State of California Department of
Public Health, Berkeley

Cross-Linkages in Collagen

Collagen is the major structural pro-
tein of vertebrates and comprises ap-
proximately One-third of the total body
protein. It undergoes conspicuous
changes with age and plays an impor-
tant role in the healing of wounds and
other pathologic processes. It is also
the basis of the gelatin, glue, .and
leather industries. Important questlonS
in the chemistry of collagen deal Wlth
the type of bonds which hold three
p01ypeptide chains together in the col-
lagen molecule and the nature of Intel'-
molecular cross-links responsible f01'
ﬁbril and ﬁber formation. Ten re‘
searchers in this ﬁeld discussed these
pr0blems at a workshop on cross—llnk‘
ages in collagen. held at Western Re-
serve University School of MedlClne,
28—29 February 1964. t

K. A. Piez (NIH) reported tha
when skin from a human infant W'fls
extracted with guanidine, two—ch33:
components (ti-components) We“? 01'-
tained, some Of which arose from lnt'en
molecular links. Isotope incorporatlo
VOL. 145

SCIENCE,

 

 

 

HUD

rn H n “1

li (h v- n- .—




 

showed that the material extracted was
not necessarily synthesized later than
acid-soluble collagen. It was tentatively
concluded that both intra- and inter-
molecular cross-links might form by a
single continuous process. Collagen
molecules from calfskin were sonicated
and bisected by M. P. Drake (M.I.T.).
Subsequent denaturation, renaturation,
enzymatic, and electron microscopic
studies of the fragments indicated that
one-half of the molecule contained at
least two (xi-oz: links and that the other
half contained at least one. The latter
half also contained at least one al'a1
link.

The possible role of aldehydes in

cross-linking of icthyocol monomers
was studied by A. Veis ( North-
western). Introduction of formalde-

hyde links caused the formation of ,8-
components with tour aldehyde mol-
ecules per 1000 amino acid residues
before the appearance of y—compo-
nents. Degradation of the synthetic
y’s resulted in the reappearance of
B’s. These observations indicated dif-
ferent sites for ,8 and y cross-links.
Veis also showed by his measurements
of swelling and solubility how dentine
collagen is very closely cross-linked.
Degradation with periodate yielded
peptides rich in phosphate and led to
the conclusion that phOSphate-medi-
ated, di- or tri-ester intermolecular
cross-links might occur in dentine col-
lagen. From the action of periodate
pn .corium and dentine collagen, it was
indlcated that both collagens contained
Intermolecular cross—links involving
tyrosine-rich regions of the monomers.
TrY9Sine was also implicated in cross-
llnklng of calfskin trOpocollagen by
H- .B. Bensusan (Western Reserve).
Iodlnation resulted in the formation
of ﬁbers insoluble in acid. In addition,
more y-components were formed on
the renaturation of iodinated, dena-
tured trOpocollagen. Fiber formation
3.01.11 iodinated trOpocollagen was in-
¥lblted by aldehyde-blocking agents.
8.116 data suggested that tyrosine is a
“6 0f both intra- and intermolecular
Cross—links which are mediated by
aldehyde.
J Aleehydes were also discussed by
that :10 (Roswell Park) who found
c011 OIdhydride treatment of tendon
link?gen 1nh1b1ted. cross-linking. Cross-
not :8 was Inhibited by his-tidine but
dined Y other amino acids. Thus, mm-
is als may serve as a binding site. Bello
mm C: usmg hydrazines of varying struc—
0 break ester-like bonds and dis-
10 JULY 1964

tinguish between intra- and intermo-
lecular bonds. Methylated hydrazines
yielded products of higher molecular
weight than those resulting from hy-
drazine treatment. An amide bond
between the 6 amino group of lysine
and a carboxyl of glutamic acid was
identiﬁed in tendon collagen by M.
Levy (New York University). After
hydrolysis, which may have destroyed
some of the bonds, there was approxi-
mately one per 1000 amino acid resi—
dues. Levy pointed out that 1 to 2
percent of such amide bonds would
double the particle weight of collagen.

P. M. Gallop (Albert Einstein) re-
ported on the treatment of ichthyocol
trOpocollagen with hydroxylamine and
on the release of subunits after treat-
ment with nucleophilic reagents. He
concluded that each a-component con-
sisted of four subunits of about 27,000
molecular weight, held in linear array
by three pairs of aspartyl ester bonds
close to the carboxyl end of each sub-
unit. It was also most likely that each
subunit contains on the average either
one glucose or galactose residue; these
hexoses are probably not directly in-
volved in the subunit attachments.
Another component, aldehydic in na-
ture, is most likely associated directly
at the subunit attachment sites; on the
basis of various chemical procedures
it is felt that this material is similar to
a 2—hydroxy, 1,5-dialdehyde.

The defect in collagen in lathyrism
was studied in order to gain informa-
tion on the types of cross—links in-
volved. J. Gross (Harvard) discussed
collagen turnover in lathyritic chick
embryos. On the basis of work by
him and M. L. Tanzer, they concluded
there was no complete block in the
formation of insoluble collagen from
soluble collagen. The extractable,
lathyritic collagen pool appeared to be
heterogeneous and to be a mixture of
newly. synthesized and older collagen.
It thus appeared that in lathyrism the
whole spectrum of states of collagen
aggregation is affected. There is no
evidence that lathyrogens directly
affect collagen. They favor the hy-
pothesis that stimulation of the cell by
the lathyrogen produces an enzyme
which can sever intra- and intermo-
lecular cross-links. C. I. Levene
(Chicago) reported that lathyrism in
chick embryos is caused by carbonyl-
blocking agents. Lathyritic collagen

was found to bind less 2,4-dinitro-

. . . . hat
h lh drazme. Thls 1nd1cates t
P eny Y er blocked

the binding sites were eith

or absent. Gallop suggested that in-
complete 27,000-molecular weight sub-
units are formed in lathyrism.

Cross-links and other factors in the
elastic properties of collagen were
studied by H. R. Elden (University of
Miami) who measured physical prop-
erties of tendon as a function of cross-
linking, hydration, and temperature.
The elastic behavior of melted collagen
obeys the theoretical expression for an
amorphous network held together by
cross-links at certain points. Stress
relaxation of melted tendon shows that
cross-links are added with age. The
elastic properties of intact tendon ap-
peared to be governed by glass state,
crystalline structure, and state of hy-
dration.

It was apparent from the proceed-
ings that considerable progress is being
made in cataloging probable cross-links
and, especially, in developing tech-
niques. This should result in a more
rapid accumulation of information in
the future. It was also apparent, how-
ever, that only a start has been made
in describing the differences in colla-
gens from different sources and in un-
derstanding the role of various cross—
links in biologic processes.

A general discussion revealed that
the present nomenclature for the com-
ponents which arise from denatured
collagen was confusing. There was
unanimous agreement regarding cer-
tain changes and additions, which have
been summarized by K. A. Piez as

follows :

The original meanings of the terms a-
component, ﬁ-component and y-compo-
nent, which are now known to have a
monomer, dimer, and trimer relationship,
are retained, but since it is recognized that
they may be mixtures, they are to .be used
in a generic sense. The term a chain as an
alternate to a-component is tentatively ac-
ceptable, although the a. chain probably
contains some nonpeptide bonds that join
polypeptide segments. The designations a1
and a2 currently applied to the two- types
of a. chain are also retained. They are
distinguished by the fact that, according
to present evidence, there are two a1
chains and one :12 chain in each molecule.
The numbers 1 and 2 are to be written
full size, not as subscripts. The subscript
position is reserved for future use to de-s-
ignate minor variations (such as genetic
variants) or nonpeptide-linked segments
within an a. chain. The designations 51
and B2 which were assigned arbitrarily to
the covalently linked dimers al-a2 and
al-al are replaced by the self-explanatory
terms ,812 and £311. The 'y—component a2—a2
arising from an intermolecular cross link
is then 322. The ,B-component arising from
interchain, intramolecular covalent cross
links would be designated 7112. Conceiv-

187

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

. Flexible
. Chemically inert
' . Glass-clear

 

At Laboratory
Supply Houses Everywhere

 

188

 

ably, other types of 7 can arise by a com-
bination Of inter— and intramolecular cross
links. Since 3 and y can also be made
synthetically from noncross-linked .col-
lagen, the products are ass1gned modiﬁed
terms, 8-5 and 8-7, with appropriate sub-
scripts where the chain composmon IS
known.

It is hoped that this nomenclature
will be generally useful and will pro—
vide the clarity and ﬂexibility needed
as research in this area progresses. It
is strongly urged that it be employed
by everyone in the ﬁeld.

The workshop was part Of the Aging
Research Program at Western Reserve
and was supported in part by a grant
from the National Institutes Of Health
(HD00669).

ROBERT R. KOHN
HOWARD B. BENSUSAN
LEROY KLEIN

Western Reserve University,
Cleveland, Ohio

Forthcoming Events
July

20-22. Magnetic Resonance in Biologi—
cal Systems, Boston. Mass. (R. G. Shul-
man. Bell Telephone Laboratories. Murray
Hill. NJ.)

20—23. New Mexico Acad. Of General
Practice, Ruidoso. (H. L. Douglas. Box
767, Tatum. N.M.)

20—24. International Diabetes Federa—
tion. 5th congr.. Toronto, Ont.. Canada.
(H. Best, Organizing Council. 477 Mt.
Pleasant Rd., Toronto 7)

20—24. Nuclear Radiation Effects. tech-
nical conf.. Seattle. Wash. (Inst. Of Elec—
trical and Electronics Engineers. Box A.
Lenox Hill Station. New York. N.Y.)

20—24. Semiconductor Physics. intern.
conf.. Paris. France. (M. Balkanski. Lab-
oratoire de Physique. Ecole Normale
Supérieure, 24, rue Lhomond. Paris 5“)

20—25. Catalysis. 3rd intern. conf..
Amsterdam. Netherlands. (D. M. Brouwer.
c/O Badhuisweg 3. PO. Box 3003. Am—
sterdam-N. Netherlands)

21-23. Physiology and Experimental
Psychology Of Color Vision. Ciba Foun-
dation symp.. London. England. (Ciba
Foundation. 41 Portland Pl.. London. W.l)

21—24. American Malacological Union.

New Orleans, La. (M. C. Teskey. Rt. 2.
Box 318. Marinette. Wis.)
21—28. International Geographical Un-
ion. ZOth intern. congr.. London. England.
(T. H. Elkins. Royal Geographical Soc..
Kensmgton Gore, London. S.W.7)

25-]. Religion and Science. 11th conf..
Star Island, Portsmouth, NH. (Religion
and Science, 280 Newton St., Brookline
Mass. 02146) ‘
26—29. Photobiology, 4th intern. congr..
Oxford, England. (Blandford Site, White-
kmghts Park, Reading. England)

26—31. American Crystallographic As-

 

 
 
 

THE NEW My

UNIVERSAL
TRANSDUCING CELL

one 1 :ll-J‘iiglacement
lllSll‘llIlllllll Igiiiliéi
an .2333?
lllllilSlll‘li 'ié‘l‘siﬁﬁ
a“ mesa oPressure
naiameleis

 

  

(Inexpensive optional
accessories are available.)

The Basic Cell

The basic Universal Transducing Cell may
be used as a load cell of :tone ounce range
or as a displacement gage of :0.0015 inch
range. Accuracy is :‘:O.15%.

Accessories for Versatility

inexpensive attachments are available to
reduce the load range to 0.1 ounce or O
extend it to 1. 10. 100 or more pounds.
Other accessories extﬁnd the displacement
n t one inc .

ra FgrEOmetirgie to time additional attach-
ments will be available'to al ow the
measurement of many other phySical para-
meters, such as hardness, spherical radius.
strain, surface tension, pressure, etc.

Principle of Operation

The Statham Universal Transducmg 3:1;
is basically an unbonded strain gage U, Ie
the Statham patented Zero-length DFInC‘PjiS;
Being unbonded. very little force ortrain-
placement is required to actuate the s h
sensitive filaments, and because 0
unique Zero-length deSIgn. the ‘The ce
cannot be broken by over-travel. ble to
can withstand any overload tolera
its structural parts. , .

The bridge circuit is purely reSistiViterngg
Operates on direct current: no_othercuracy.
ducing system is comparable in ac

Companion Readout System

A compact readout instrument, wlhIC
vides a self-contained power BUDDYibl
balance. and amplifier, is.aval|a
use with the Statham Universal
ducing Cell.

22.,

E
FOR COMPLETE lNFORMATION WRlT

Statham Instruments, Inc.
nor West Olympic B V. -
Lo: Angeles 64, C8l|for3e3213l

BRadshaw 2-0371 (Area CO

45
SCIENCE, VOL' 1

 




 

soc, Bozeman, Mont. (B. Post, Brooklyn
Polytechnic Inst.. Brooklyn, N.Y.)

26—31. Mineralogical Soc. of America,
Bozeman, Mont. (G. Switzer, MSA, US.
Nat]. Museum, Washington, DC. 20560)

26—3]. Pharmacology, Teachers’ Semi-
nar, Univ. of Connecticut, Storrs. (M. H.
Malone, School of Pharmacy, Univ. of
Connecticut, Storrs)

26—1. Biochemistry, 6th intern. congr.,
New York, N.Y. (R. A. Harte, 6th Intern.
Biochemistry Congr., 9650 Wisconsin
Ave., NW, Washington. DC. 200l4)

27—28. International Cartographic As-
soc., 2nd general assembly, London. Eng-
land. (D. E. Imhol‘. Kartographisches In-
stitut, Eidgenossische Teehnische Hoch-
schule, Zurich, Switzerland)

27—30. Technical Assoc. of the Pulp
and Paper Industry. engineering conf.,
Seattle, Wash. (IAPPI. 360 Lexington
Ave., New York. N.Y. 10017)

27—31. American Dietetic Assoc. 47th
annual, Portland. Ore. (ADA, 620 N.
Michigan Ave., Chicago. Ill. 6061])

27—21. Engineering Foundation Research
Confs. Andover. NH. (United Engineer-
ing Center, 345 IE. 47 St., New York l7)

30—]. International Soc. for Human and
Animal Mycology. 3rd. Edinburgh, Scot-
land. (R. Vanbreuscghem, Inst. of Tropical
Medicine, 155 rue National, Antwerp, Bel-
gium)

A u gust

2—3. Ophthalmic Biochemistry, ﬁrst
intern. conf., Woods Hole, Mass. (S. Ler-
man, Univ. of Rochester, Rochester, N.Y.)

2—4. American Assoc. of Colleges of
Pharmacy, New York, N.Y. (C. W.
Bliven, 1507 M St., NW, Washington,
DC. 20005)

2—6. National Medical Assoc., 69th an-
nual, Washington, DC. (Administrative
Secretary, 520 W St., NW, Washington,
DC. 20001)

2—7. American Pharmaceutical Assoc.,
lllth annual, New York, N.Y. (G. B.
Grittenhagen, Div. of Communications,
2215 Constitution Ave., NW, Washing-
ton, DC.)

2~8. Applied Psychology, 15th intern.
Cont, Ljubljana. Yugoslavia. (B. Petz,
Inst: Of Psychology of Zagreb, Djure
Salaja b.b., Zagreb, Yugoslavia)

2-8. Reactivity of Solids, 5th intern.
§ymp,, Munich, Germany. (B. Stuke. Phys-
lkalische-Chemisehes Institut, SOphienstr.
11, Munich)

3—5- Compounds of Interest in Nuclear
Reactor Technology, intern. symp.,
Boulder, Colo. (J. T. Waber, Los Alamos
Sclentiﬁc Laboratories, PO. Box 1663,
Los Alamos, NM. 87544)

3‘7. Instrument Soc. of America, in-
St{‘llmentation conf., Geneva, N.Y. (H. S.
Kmdler, 530 William Penn Place, Pitts—
burgh, Pa.)

3‘7- World Federation for Mental
Health, 17th annual, Bern, Switzerland.

.Cloutier, 1, rue Gevray, Geneva,
SWltzerland)

3‘8. International Years of the Quiet
“11:. regional symp., Buenos Aires, Ar-
geintmga- (J. G. Roederer, Facultad de

lenC1as, Peru 272, Buenos Aires)

3~1 0. Anthropologists and Ethnologists,

10 JULY 1964

 

 

grgonnt Rational iaboratory
CREATES A RARE"NOBLE GAS"CDMPOUND
StereoZooni Helps Study Strange New Crystals

Chemists at Argonne succeeded in making xenon, an inert gas, combine
chemically with ﬂuorine! A whole new era of chemical bonding was
opened up that could be extremely valuable in atomic research. A
Bauseh & Lomb 3-D microscope, the StereoZoom, was used to study the
exciting and novel compound, xenon tetraﬂuoride (XeF4).

With the StereoZoom, Argonne scientists could see and study the crys-
tals in natural, three-dimensional detail at the magniﬁcation they chose.
The advanced optical design of the StereoZoom makes pOSSIble today s
0 views of miniature structures. Focusing is the fastest,
sharpest ever. Just dial the zoom knob for continuously variable mag-
nification—any power may be chosen within the full range (3.5x to
120x). Maintenance worries can be forgotten—these microscopes are
trouble-free, durable, shockproof, dustproof, Vibration-free.

most vivid stere

You can choose the right StereoZoom for your needs from 24 different
models. To learn how the StereoZoom can help you make preciSio’n
studies, assemblies or inspections, Circle ad number below on magazme 8
re ly card and mail it; call your dealer, or wrltefor an OH-the-Job
delinonstration. Bauseh & Lomb Incorporated, 64207 Bauseh Street,

Rochester, New York 14602. B AUSCH 8t LOMB V

MASTER DESIGN AWARD WINNER—Microscopes for Science Teaching and Flexisc0pe
1964

Circle 189 on Readers’ Service card

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

with general-purpose
convenience , .
TYPE 580A SERIES WITH DUAL-TRACE PLUG-IN UNIT

 

 

i...'»»" ......

l . '7'” .
”.4.A, , r. . .._...........

Dual-trace display of input and output pulses of a Display of a fast transient at 10 nsec/cm, using
transistor ampliﬁer at 10 nsec/cm—with lower trace single-sweep operation and the Tektronix C-19 Cam-

delayed 1 nsec by amplifier under observation. Type era. Single-sweep feature of the Type 585A/82 com-
585A/82 combination can display time coincidence bination iacilitates photographic recording of most
between input channels with no measurable diﬁer- one-shot phenomena.

ence at 10 nsec/cm.

HIGH-FREQUENCY SYNC to 250 MC

._., . .. . ,. . FREQUENCY ,

VVVVVVVV 2' ' I i 3 RESPONS‘
.: ‘ I

l
App.

's i . .
.. iyﬁOnyﬁyWTis/Ni‘ﬁsﬂ’sy» '

I

ONI'HJQOIHI

FREQUENCV RE SPONSE

I
l
l

Display of a 250 Mc Sine Wave at 10 nsec/cm. using .12.“,

the H. F. Sync Mode. In this mode, the Type 585A/82 10 50 100 150

combination can display steady signals irom 5 Mc MC MC MC MC

to 250 Me. with a fraction of a cm oi displayed T . . . .

amplitude. yplcaI frequency response and internal triggering
characteristics otType 585A/82 combination—show-
ing minimum number oi cm necessary iortriggering.

Used with a Type 82 dual-trace unit, a Type 580A Series Oscilloscope oﬁers
new measurement convenience for high-sensitivity, wide-band. dual-trace
applications. Here are some of the features:

I DU AL-TRACE OPERATION with 4 operating modes I DC-to-85 MC PASS-
BAND at 100 mv/cm I DC-to-8O MC PASSBAND at 10 mv/cm I CALIBRATED
SENSITIVITY in 9 steps, variable I INTERNAL AND EXTERNAL TRIGGER—
ING to 150 Me I SWEEP RANGE from 10 nsec/cm to 2 sec/cm I SUPPLIED
SMALL-SIZE PASSIVE PROBES with risetime of probe, plugvin, oscilloscope
at overall sensitivity of 100 mv/cm of approximately 4% nsec.

PLUS COMPATIBILITY WITH 17 LETTER-SERIES PLUG-INS
when used with Type 81 Adapter.

Type 581A Oscilloscope . . . . . . $1425 Type 82 Dual-Trace Plug-in Unit , , , $5.5m
Type 585A Oscilloscope . . . . . . 1725 Type 86 Single-Trace Plug-in Unit _ . 355
Type RM585A Oscilloscope . . . . . 1825 Type 81 Plug-in Adapter , . _ . . 135
585A models have sweep-delay facility . (allows insertion of letter-series pitta-ins) »
Oscilloscope Prices without plug-in units us. Sammie“. “Lb. BM/Qrﬁon'memn

FOR A DEMONSTRATION, CALL YOUR TEKTRONIX FIELD ENGINEER.

Tektronix, Inc.

P. 0. BOX 500 ~ BEA VERIQNI OREGON 97005 - Phone: (Area Code 503) MItche/l4-075] . Te/ex: 036—607
TWX.‘ 503-291-6805 . Cab/e: TEKTRON/X - OVERSEAS DISTRIBUTORS IN 25 COUNTRIES ' .
TEKTRONIX FIELD OFFICES in prmcrpa/ cities in United States. Consult Telephone Directory
Tektronix Australia Pty., Ltd., Melbourne; Sydney . Tektronix Canada Ltd., MOnireal' Toronto
Tektronix International A.G., Zug, Switzerland - Tektronix Ltd., Guernsw, C, /, ' I

Tektronix U. K. Ltd., Harpenden, Herts

190

7th world conf.. Moscow, USSR.
(American Anthropological Assoc., 1530
P St.. NW, Washington, DC. 20005)

3—12. Botanical Congr.. 10th intern.
Edinburgh, Scotland. (Miss S. C. Penny:
5 Hope Park Sq.. Edinburgh 8)

4-7. Poultry Science Assoc. annual.
Minneapolis. Minn. (E. L. Johnson, Dept,
of Poultry Science. Univ. of Minnesota,
St. Paul 5510])

4—]7. Methods of Hydrological Fore-
casting. 3rd inter-regional seminar, Worm
Meteorological Organization/UN Eco-
nomic Commission for Asia and the Far
East. Bangkok. Thailand. (WMO, Segre-
tariat. Geneva. Switzerland)

5—7. Sonic Investigations on Internal
Damping in Solids. symp.. London, Eng-
land (Administration Assistant, Institute
of Physics and the Physical Society. 47
Belgrave Square. London. S.W.l)

5—12. Atmospheric Radiation. symp..
World Meteorological Organization/
Intern. Union of (ieodesy and Geophysics.
Leningrad. USSR. (Secretariat. WMO,
Geneva, Switzerland)

5—15. High Energ) Physics. 12th intern.
conf.. Dubna. USSR. (M. L. Gold-
berger. Commission on High Energy Nu-
clear Physics. IUPAC. Princeton Univ.,
Princeton. NJ. 08540)

6—11. American Podiatry Assoc, New
York. N.Y. (F. A. Kalbacher, American
Podiatry Assoc. 3301 16th St.. NW. Wash-
ington. DC. 20010

7—14. Scientiﬁc. Study on Mental Re-
tardation. intern. congr.. Copenhagen.
Denmark. (A. l)upont. Statens Ands-
svageforsorg. Nyropsgaile 28.2. Copen-
hagen 5)

9-12. Heat Transfer. 7th natl. conf..
Cleveland. Ohio. (W, Chenoweth. Amer-
ican Inst. of Chemical Engineers. 345 E.
47 St.. New York I7)

9—13. American Soc. of Animal Science.
Knoxville. Tenn. (.1. li. Oldﬁeld, Dept. of
Animal Science. Oregon State Univ.. Cor-
vallisl

9—14. South American Union of Engi-
neers‘ Federations. 10th conv.. Rio de
Janeiro. Brazil. (Fedcracao Brasileira de
Associacoes de Engenheiros. Caixa Postal
1229. Rio de Janeiro)

10—14. Structural Developments in In-
Organic Chemistry. New Hampton. .
(W. G. Parks. Dept. of Chemistry. Unlv.
of Rhode Island. Kingston)

10—15. Pan American Federation of
Engineering Socs.. 8th biennial COHV-a
Caracas. Venezuela. (1.. K. Wheelock, En-
gineers Joint Council. 345 E. 47 St.. New
York 10017l

11—14. American Soc. for Pharmacology
and Experimental Therapeutics, San Fran-

Cisco, Calif. (H. G. Mandel. George Wash-
ington Univ. Medical School. Washington,
DC. 20005)

12-14. Ballistic Missile and Space Iceb-
nology. 9th symp.. US. Naval Training

 

 

Center, San Diego. Calif. (C. Morrow:
Aerospace Corp. P.O. Box 95085, L05
Angeles. Calif. 90045)

nf.,UpP‘

12-14. Galaxies. preliminary CO b
sala. Sweden. (T. Page. Van Vleck O '
servatory. Wesleyan Univ” Middle/(Own,
Conn. 06457) . -

12—14. X-Ray Analysis Apphcaﬂo‘g’
13th annual conf.. Denver. CO 0- ( '

SCI

 

 




 

 

allllllSllll SCIENCE BARGAINS-s.-

BARGAIN 3” ASTRONOMICAL TELESCOPE

See the stars, moon, phases of Venus, planets close up!
60 to 180 power famous Mt. Palomer Reﬂecting type.
Unusual Buy! Equipped with Equatorial mount; ﬁnder
telescope; hardwood tripod. Included FREE: “STAR
CHART”; 272-page “HANDBOOK OF HEAVENS”;
“HOW TO USE YOUR TELESCOPE” book.

Stock No. 85,050-W .................... $29.95 Postpaid

“41/4” Reflecting Telescope—up to 255 Power, all-metal pedestal mount.
Stock No. 85,105-W. . . . “1.7.7:;437950M0n, NJ.
’FISH’ WITH A WAR SURPLUS MAGNET --
Great idea! Fascinating fun and sometimes tremendously
proﬁtable! Tie a line to our 5-lb. Magnet—drop it over-
board in bay, river. lake or ocean. 'I roll it along the bot—
tom—your “treasure" haul can be outboard motors. anchors, ﬁshing
tackle, all kinds of metal valuables, 5-lb. Magnet is war surplus—
Alnico V Type (jov‘t (.‘ost. $50. Lifts over 125 lbs. on land much
greater weights under \yater. Order now and try this new sport.
Stock No. 70,571-W 5lb. Magnet. ...................... $12.50 Postpaid
Stock No. 70,570-W 31/2 lb. Lifts 40 lbs.. . ..........$8.75 Postpaid
Stock No. 70,572-W 71/2 lb. Lifts 150 lbs.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .$18.75 Postpaid
Stock No. 85,152-W 15 lb. size, Lifts 250 lbs. F.O.B ........ $33.60 Postpaid

Remove Your Retaining Rings—Disassemble

Lenses, Cameras, etc.

ADJUSTABLE SPANNER WRENCH
Made for U. S Air Force available at a fraction
of (iovernment cost. A top grade, versatile tool that
every instrument and camera repair man or just plain tinkerer should own.
Adjustable for Vi” to II” diameter retaining rings. Complete with six differ—
ent pairs of points to lit all types of slots and holes. 3”, 6”, and 12” main
bars. All steel and nicely plated. The fittest tool we have ever come across
for this type of retaining ring work AND a real bargain at our low price.
Stock No. 70,355-W ................................... .$12.50 Postpaid

WOODEN SOLID PUZZLES
12 Different puzzles that will stimulate your ability
to think and reason. Here is a fascinating assort-
ment of wood puzzles that will provide hours of
pleasure. Twelve ditl'erent puzzles. animals and geo-

 
    

 

 

Ct.

   
  
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

    

metric forms to take apart and reassemble. give a

chance for all the family. young or old. to test skill,
patience and, best of all. to stimulate ability to think and reason while ,
havmg lots of fun. ()rder yours now.

Stock No. 70,205-W ....................................... $3.00 Postpaid
$3

 

 

 

STEREO MICROSCOPE
American Made—Terrific Buy! Years in development. Pre-
cision American made. Used for checking, inspecting, small
assembly work. Up to 3” working distance. Clear. sharp,
erect image. \Vide. 3 dimensional ﬁeld. 2 sets of objectives
on rotating turret. 23X and 40X. 10 Days Free Trial.
Stock No. 85,056-W.. $99.50 f.o.b. Barrington, NJ.
DIRECT MEASURING ATTACHMENT—with regular
comparator reticle for on-the-spot checks of linear dimen-
sions. diameters. radii and angles—in millimeters and inches.
Stock No. 40,486-W ..................................... $10.00 Postpaid
DIRECT MEASURING ATTACHMENT—with sand measuring reticle
for sand and soil analysis . . or counting or measuring other particles.
Stoclg‘NLmAu-w ...................... MM tpaldv
Perfect For Plant, Lab, Hobby, Home 3
NEW LOW-COST KIT TO BUILD
PHOTOELECTRIC DEVICES
Dozens Of_ practical applications for this low-priced photo—
electric kit. Make a photoelectric counter for entrance
Ways or conveyor belts. light-actuated door opener. light-
meter, transmitter power output indicator. countless circuit
(1.65:9? possible. Includes: 3/T-4 CdS photoconductors _,
(/2 dlam. x 1/2” lg.). mounting bracket, Sigma AC-DC ' " '
gigilizdagips resistive load). ZZK-Ohm, l-watt resistor and a SZ—Page
6 e nin7 l9 dif '1 ' ‘ ‘. .
StocLNo. 60,4il-W. . mleienutprOJeets ...................... $10.45 Postpald
Rugged, Low-Priced

:3??? i EXPERIMENTAL ELECTRO-MAGNET .
it Hobbyists. instructors and industrial lab men Will ﬁnd
this well-built Electro-Magnet invaluable. Demonstrate
principles of electro-magnetism. Actually lifts 100 lbs.
, When powered by a single l-l/2V ﬂashlight battery.
~lf . Easily deactivated. Includes instructions for 6 eXDeflment§
c ltlng power, magnetic ﬂux and magnetomotive force, air gap. area 0
aOntact, retentivity and ﬁeld conﬁguration. Unit includes magnet and yoke
Cissizngblgy, baétefry holder. leads. clips and eyebolts. Steal 1forel 311%:ka 11):):-
oun or ' 2—12” 'a. x - 2’ - - .‘
siocLNo. 60,435.53 .13. . 93.1 17.6%? .51.)??? . . . ./. . .fh. .......... simoo Postpa-d

'- 3 HOME WEATHER STATION
New “Weather Station” is highly sensit1ve to wefélg/el.‘
b “...; changes. Consistently accurate thermometer to _ o,
ﬁrometer accurate to :.25% and hygrometer to :5%. Foretells weather
5 anges f(0m 12 to 24 hours in advance. Hygrometer calibrated in peré
”Sm rekitlye humidity. Excellent for teaching weather phenomena at:1
eieorOIOEICBI hobbv work. Instrument mounted on handsome WQO -
grained W311 Panel 15%” x 5%”. Meter cases heavily metalized—comblnes

Reality and protection. Dials in etched aluminum, of high precision. Full
Instructions. ’

“WMAOLW ...................................... $9.95 Post!”id

Order by stock No.—Check, M.O. or Open Account—Money'bCICk ll.
Guarantee. Minimum Order on Open Account—$10

Com l FREE! GIANT 148-PAGE CATALOG llWIl ' .
IUstrgffﬂely new, enlarged edition. New items, categlories, .Il-
dustr'lfns' 148. e(‘JSY-lo-read pages packed Wlll1 1005 of m-
SUrpILO on'lh‘F'lOb he'ps . . . quality control aids. Many wqr
tier 5 bargoms, Imported instruments! Lenses, Prisms, Magni-

s, TelesmpeS, Satellite Scopes, Microscopes, Binoculars, etc.

r°r lnclustry, research labs, hobbyists, experimenters. Write for
ee Catalog IIWII.

EDMUND SCIENTIFIC co.. Bonington. N. 1-

 

 

    
   
 

. ' _ w;
; ;._\. .
- 5% : . .

 

   

 

   
    

 

  
     

 

   

10 JULY 1964

     
  

 

Triolei

ogen mustard (ethylene-1, 2-C14)

tobarbital-Q-C14 Nicotinic acid-‘7-C14

-methionine-methyl-H3 DL-norepinephri

ydroxy-Q-acetylaminofluorene-Q-CM

rbitaI-Q-CM Maleic hydrazide-Q, 3-

innamic acid-Q-CM Nicotin.
N—acetyl-l-C14-

hydrazide-Q. 3-C14 N-hy o y- -acetylaminofluorene-

Wis-b

radiochemlcals

     
  
 
  
  

S-adenos l- -u' ---" acetyl-

night letter from
U 0

 

-ne-1,

   

Nic 5 ' - Lin
,4)

y . W 9-04
etl 5 WW)
ine- W! W

M1

[M0 ore

HlUC
l

 

 

Around the clock, coast to coast

over 400 radiochemicals . . .
nuclear serVIces . . .
radioactive sources

5E TRACERLAB
‘4.

A DIVISION or LABORATORY ron ELECTRONICS, mc.
WALTHAM 54, MASSACHUSETTS

0 Sources - Health Physics Services a Film Badge Service
0 Radioactive Waste Disposal a Bloassays

191

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
  

A ; A News-ms. ..

WITH

(LEXAN *)

 
     
 
 
  

dielectric strength (4'00 7 ..
cconstani; (3 .17”; at
Constant. power factor ((0.009?

 

and voltime:'resistiVitytllJ
cm) 'f‘assure; reliable perform-a
:v-yaiiety iii environments.
hisplastic-hasexcellent‘ir . .
idatie‘n‘an‘d co'rroSionisa‘ii'dﬂisf’
ic osivegeVen. when uSediiwith "as
ginet Wire. The temperate" e,
is? NNIUBE’ lV isavailable VinT‘a‘Wid‘e}
range of wall thicknesSes, Outside diam.”
”rs and custom profiles. “Tubing sizes
:f’i‘a {from AWG #30 to 1"; rod: .010?
t n _ . . , p , if 1‘55,

  
  
  
 
  
 
  
  

 
 
 

 
  

 
 

  

      
    

  

    
      
    
 

  

  

     
 
 
  
   

Write, wire or call for additional details-,5
;‘_; andiniormation about other PENNTUB‘E‘E;
products. Make sure you're not payiingk’}...
too much for one plastic-when another";
gifxless expensive plastic will do the 10b..

   

.. Halley'Street & Madison Ave.. Clifton Heights. ‘
(215) MAdis'on 2-2300 TWX: 2151-6234572

renames i tenant ms; PENNTUBE ll mien ;
rap; reumuas m Tritiuoroehiprmhyim
.(Helon’l‘i‘): PENNTUBE IV. Polycarbonate

(Loxanﬂ; PENNTUBE VI Vinylidono Fluoride”

(Kynort) .
®EF,, Reg. T.M. tGeneral Electric Reg. TM.
,tDuPont Beg. T.M :Pennsalt Reg._‘T;I‘tl,,,

framed Chemical Reg. 'l‘.M.

192

 

.7 " “f , --~~,-x—ﬁ::,, FL: ,

.74. — .2 . M.—
't 24.:7‘—'~_1‘_=—.~~.A>—~.uwG—.g-:;:..:L_as. ,1“. - . .-.

Mueller, Metallurgy Div., Denver Re-

search Inst., Denver 80210) .
' 13—15. International Soc. for Horticul-
tural Science, Edinburgh, Scotland. (G. de
Bakker, Le v.d. Boschstraat 4, The Hague,
Netherlands)

16—21 . Histochemistry and Cytochem-
istry, intern. congr., Frankfurt am Main,
Germany. (T. H. Schiebler, Anatomisches
Institut der Universitat, Koellikerstr. 6, 87
Wiirzburg, Germany)

16—23. Latin American Schools of Med-
icine, 4th conf., Pocos de Caldas, Brazil.
(0. Versiani Caldeira, Univ. of Minas
Gerais Medical School, Belo Horizonte,
Minas Gerais, Brazil)

16—24. Human Economy, conf., Inst. of
Paper Chemistry, Appleton, Wis. (A. N.
McLeod, IPC, Appleton)

17—20. American Assoc. of Clinical
Chemists, 16th nat1., Boston, Mass. (F. F.
Ronan, .AACC, 19 Bay State Rd., Boston

,5)

17—20. Natural Ultra Low Frequency
Electromagnetic Fields, symp., Boulder.
Colo. (W. H. Campbell, National Bureau
of Standards, Boulder)

17—21. Combustion, 10th intern. symp..
Cambridge, England. (Combustion Inst..
986 Union Trust Bldg, Pittsburgh 19.

a.

17—21. Cryogenic Engineering, conf.,
Philadelphia, Pa. (K. D. Timmerhaus, En-
gineering Research Center, Ketchum 129.
Univ. of Colorado, Boulder)

17-21. Simulation in Space Technology.
Blacksburg, Va.‘ (F. J. Maher, Virginia
Polytechnic Inst., Blacksburg)

17—22. International Astronomical Un-
ion, symp., Thessaloniki, Greece. (Maj.
B. R. Agins, Air Force Ofﬁce of Scientiﬁc
Research, SRMA, Washington, DC.
20333)

17—22. Cardiology, 4th European congr..
Prague, Czechoslovakia. (H. Kafka, Kar-
lovo nam. 32, Prague 2)

17-22. Endocrinology, 2nd intern. congr..
London, England. (A. S. Mason, London
Hospital, Whitechapel, London, E1)

17—22. Social Psychiatry, 1st intern.

congr.. London, England. (J. Bierer, 7
Hollycroft Ave., London, N.W.3)
_ 17—28. Molecular Biophysics, intern.
inst, Squaw Valley, Calif. (Prof. Weiss-
bluth, Biophysics Laboratory, Stanford
Univ., Stanford, Calif.)

18—20. International Assoc. of Milk
and Food Sanitarians, Portland, Ore. (H.
L. Thomasson, PO. Box 437, Shelbyville.
Ind.) I

19—21. Physiology of Digestion in the
Ruminant, 2nd intern. symp., Ames, Iowa.
(R. W. Dougherty, Box 70, Ames)

20-21. National Council of Teachers of
Mathematics, Minneapolis, Minn. (J. D
Gates, NCTM, 1201 16th St. NW, Wash:
ington, DC. 20036)

22.. .American Inst. of Ultrasonics in
Medicine, 9th annual, Boston, Mass. (W. J.
Fry, Biophysical Research Laboratory
U1121'\21.2t;f Illinois, Urbana) ’

- . History of Astronomy, 5 m
Hamburg, .Germany. (B. Sticker, Idlstitliit
fur. Geschichte der Naturwissenschaften
UniverSitat Hamburg, Hartnungstr 5 2
Hamburg 13, Germany) . ’

. 22—28. American Soc. of Human Genet-
105, Boulder, C010. (S. H. Boyer Johns
Hopkins Hospital, Baltimore, Md),

 

 
 

 

 

 

high
temperature

measurement
problems?

“-u.‘

  
  

Model 61, $195

new YS I tele-
thermometer

. a multi-range thermistor based
tele-thermometer for high temperature
measurements in laboratory, research
and industrial areas. Calibrate different
probes in less than a minute. Direct
reading meter accurately monitors high
temperature surfaces, semi-solids,

liquids and gases in seconds.

METER SCALE PLATE (Half Size)

 

iS i3°F over most of range. C)Read-
ability and reproducibility better than 1F.

Accuracy

The Model 61 is battery operated and
Completely portable. Convenient re-
corder jacks provide 0-160 MV full
scale output. The full line of YSI Tele—
thermometers includes single 39d
multi-channel instruments for pIECISe
temperature measurements from
—200° to +260°C.

For complete speclficatlons

and details write:

  

45
SCIENCE. VOL' 1

 




 

23. American Assoc. of Electromyog.
raphy, annual, Boston, Mass. (M. K_

Newman, 16861 Wyoming Ave., Detroit, I

Mich. 4822])
23—26. American Phytopathological Soc.,

Lafayette, Ind. (J. R. Shay, Purdue Univ.,

Lafayette)
23—26. Soil Conservation Soc. of Amer-

ica, 19th annual, Jackson, Miss. (SCS,
7515 Northeast Ankeny Rd., Ankeny,
Iowa)

23—28. American Inst. of Biological
Sciences, annual, Boulder, Colo. (AIBS,

2000 P St., NW, Washington, DC. 20036)

 

The following societies will hold meet-
ings in conjunction with the AIBS meeting:

American Bryological Society

American Fern Society

American Fisheries Society

American Microscopical Society

American Society for Horticultural
Science

American Society of Human Genetics

American Society of Parasitologists

American Society of Plant Physiologists

American Society of Plant Taxonomists

American Society of Zoologists

Biometric Society ENAR-WNAR

Botanical Society of America

Ecological Society of America

Genetics Society of America

Mycological Society of America

National Association of Biology Teach—
ers

Nature Conservancy

Phi Sigma Society

Phycological Society of America

Society for Industrial Microbiology

Society for the Study of Development
and Growth

Society of Nematologists

Society of Protozoologists

Tomato Genetics Cooperative

 

23—28. American Congr. of Physical
Medicine and Rehabilitation. Boston,
Mass. (G. Gullickson, Jr.. 30 N. Michi-
gan, Chicago, 111.)

23—28. Conservation Education, conf.,
Tacoma, Wash. (C. Boyce. Oﬁ‘ice oflthe
Superintendent of Public Instruction,
Olympia, Wash.)

24—26. American Inst. of Aeronautics
and Astronautics, Los Angeles. Calif.
(AIAA, 1290 Sixth Ave., New York. NY.)

24—.26. Society for Cryobiology. annual,
Washington, DC. (V. P. Perry. Tissue
Bank Dept., US. Naval Medical School,
Natlonal Naval Medical Center. Bethesda,
Md. 20014)

24—26. Education in the Nuclear Power
Era, conf., Gatlinburg. Tenn. (M. L. Nel—
ioﬂ, Education Div., Oak Ridge Natl.
abOratory, PO. Box 117, Oak Ridge,
enn.)
su24~26. Mathematical Assoc. of America,
Ammer meeting, Univ. of Massachusetts,
fllnherst. (H. M. Gehman, Univ. of Buf-
30, But‘falo 14, NHY)
an:4‘27. Biological Photographic Assoc.,
8111211. New York, NY. (C. H. Weiss.

Bedford St., New York 14)

Cag0‘27- American Hospital Assoc., Chi—
ho, III. (E. L. Crosby, 840 N. Lake
2f; Dr. Chicago 11)
ed"?7 Toxicology and Occupational

amiicine, 4th inter-American conf., Mi-

Beach, Fla. (w. Machle, Univ. of

10 JULY 1964

 

 

 

Completed separation of fractions by the Cascade Electrode Electrophoresis Apparatus.

fast, accurate,
reproducible,
straight-line
electrochromatographic
separations . . .

CASCADE ELECTRODE ELECTROPHORESIS

.. I Uniform spread-
ing of buffer. I
Entire electro-con-
ductive surface is

I Performs with
greater speed,
accuracy and relia-
bility. I Minimum

 

 
  

heat generation, no available for migra-
external cooling tion of fractions on
required. ' the paper curtain.

FOR FURTHER INFORMATION, WRITE TO:

Scientific Industries/”c.
DEPT. 5764: 220-05 97TH AVENUE - QUEENS VILLAGE 29. NEW YORK.

“x2049:

A

 

193

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

this slide box
would like to
stand up
and be counted

Now LaPine makes slide identifica-
tion easy and accurate. Raised
numerals on the center index, ade
jacent to the slides, assure total
visibility with slides in posmon..Con-
temporary design and functional
one-piece construction boasts:

 

' ' ' 'llion times
0 Lifetime Hin e—guaranteed to open and close one 'mi

0 Safety Latchg—positive closure prevents slides from falling out - Neat
Storage—boxes nest or store on end like books. Durable polypropylene.
Holds 100 slides.

Cost? $2.05 each, $66.50 per case of 36. LaPine Microscope Slide Box. Order today
through your LaPine salesman or write your nearest LaPine branch.

OFFICES AND WAREHOUSES

CHICAGO NEW YORK CALIFORNIA LAPINE SClENTIFIC COMPANY

6091 8' Knox Ave., 30‘ BUCKhiqui/St" €282,133? gift" Prompt Nationwide Service. Everything you need,
Chicago329, Ill. gigging)! - - Phone 415' ' A complete selection of types, models, recognized
:Eiigiicelg-HOO LYric 1-8900 THornwall 5-3614 brands from our strategically located warehouses.

 

 

 

 

 

BOOKS FROM THE
SOVIET lllllOll

Worth AutomotiOn 8‘ Mathematics

Kilchevskii, N—Osnovy Analiticheskoi Mekhaniki
Obolochek. Vol. 1. Kiev. 1963 _________ 354 pp. $3.00

I I
Arutiunian, N., et aI.—Kruchenie Uprugikli Tel
Moscow, 1963 _________________________ 686 pp. 5.00

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
    

 

 

Kelman, V., et al.—Elektr0nnaia Optika. Moscow—
Len., 1963 ____________________________ 362 pp. 5.25

for Natanson, l.—Kratkii Kurs Vyssliei Mateiiiatiki
_ Moscow-Len., 1963 ____________________ 748 pp. 3.00

Frish, S.——Opticheskie Spektry Atomov, Moscow-
Len., 3 ____________________________ 740 pp. 6.00

' Belyakov, V., et al.——'1‘ab1itsy Ellipticheskikli
ADM-20, ‘Sterilizing F"- Integralov. Vol. 1. Moscow, 1962 ______ 656 pp. 12.00

, __ Belyakov, V., et aI.—Tablitsy Ellipticheskikli
tration and Sterility TBSt- Integralov. V01. 2. Moscow, 1963- _____ 786 pp. l2.50

. ,, - - P'roblemy Kibernetiki—Complete Set, Vols. 1-1()
mg dBSCIIbBS techniques (ed. by A. Lyapunov) Moscow, 1963----per vol. 3.00
for usmg MIIIIpOl’e f||ters Trudy .Mezhdunarodnogo Simpoziuma Po Nelinei-

“I h . nym Kolebaniam—Kiev, 12-18 sentiabrya 1961 g.
to stem 126' p airmaceUtl' Vol. I (Analiticheskie metody) _________ 516 pp. 7.00
cal and biological SOIU- Vol. 2 (Kachestvennye metody) _______ 542 pp. 7.00

.- Vol.3 P'll ' " ~-
: tions. Includes new MF ‘ “mm “mm “ehnemikh kolehanm

516 pp. 7.00
- e l’ " Gutenrnakher, L. ~——Elekt.ronnye Informatsionno-

I: teChIIIQU f0 . 3%”th Logicheskie Mashiny (Russian or English) Mos-
testing of antibiotics In 00"“ 0 ----------------------------- 19” “0- L50

. Tsypkin; Ya.—Teoria Line' kl I . . \v-
accordance With FMDA tem Moscow, 1963 ...... 1.1:):_:__:]:I:‘il_s_nj_‘ii68$pp. 6.50

regulations. To get a copy Gradshtein, L. et a|.—Tablitsy Integralov Summ.

. . Biadov I Proizvedenii, Moscow, 1963__1097 pp.
of this manual, write to Dynkin, E.—Markovskie Protessy, Moscow, 1963

- 809 DP. 5.00
Zeldowch, Ya. ct al.—Fizika Udarnykh Voln I

Vysokotemperaturnykh Gidrod' ' h ‘
n ‘1 o Yavlenii, Moscow, 1963----iiliiiriliffiiil6i32 pp. 6.25
l more Zhongolovich, I et

7 h 32 a|.——Tab1itsy Naturalnykli
mac enii tg ‘ °

X
Z 1 tgi’ w S Piatiu Znachscliimi
FILTER CORPORATION Tsiframi, Moscow-Len? 1963 ___________ 384 pp 5 50
145 Ashby Rd., Bedford,Mass. Landau, L.&_. Lifshits, E.—Kvantovaia Meklianika
(INerehatiwstskaia teoria) Moscow, 1963
Millipore® ﬁlters are cellulose 702 pp. 3'00

plastic porous membranes made in Average Shipping charges approx. 10% 3‘01-
twelve pore-size grades from 8 postage (Hid handling. Order by/ mail
microns down to 10 millimicrons. In

microﬁltrationoranalysis,allmatter WRITE FOR COMPLETE CATALOG

9.50

3.2.2?“ 5:51.33.le FOOll OOllTlllEllT uoox coup
or CHARGE ' on the ﬁlter surface. Dept. 313, 156 rim. Avenue, New York ,0 N.Y'.
194

 

 

l

l
i

Miami School of Medicine, Coral Gables,
Fla.)

24—28. International Council of the
Aeronautical Sciences, 4th congr., Paris,
France. (American Inst. of Aeronautics
and Astronautics, 2 E. 64 St., New York,
N.Y. 10021)

24—28. Astrodynamics Guidance and
Control, conf., Los Angeles, Calif. (K.
Watanabe, 4731 B Engineering Building
Ill, University of California, Los An-
geles 24)

24—28. American Astronautical Soc.,
military space applications symp., Stanford,
Calif. (AAS, 516 Fifth Ave., New York,
N.Y.)

24—28. Society for Industrial and Ap-
plied Mathematics. Amherst, Mass. (W. S.
Dorn, T. J. Watson Research Center,
I.B.M., P.O. Box 218, Yorktown Heights,

24—28. Scandinavian Mathematical
Congr., Copenhagen, Denmark. (Secre-
tariat, The Congress, c/o Mathematical
Inst., H. C. Virsted Inst., Universitets-
parken 5, Copenhagen 0)

24—28. American Mathematical Soc.,
New York, N.Y. (G. L. Walker, AMS,
190 Hope St., Providence, R.I.)

24—28. Preventive Cardiology, ﬁrst in-
tern. conf., Burlington, Vt., (W. Raab,
Preventive Heart Reconditioning Founda-
tion. 206 Summit St., Burlington, Vt.)

24—28. Water Pollution Research, 2nd
intern. conf., Tokyo, Japan. (Water Pollu-
tion Control Federation, 4435 Wisconsm
Ave., Washington. DC. 20016)

24—29. Psychotherapy, 6th intern. congr.,
London, England. (F. Pannell, The Con-
gress, ll Whitehall Ct., London, .S.W.1)

24—29. Preparation and Biomedical Ap-
plication of Labeled Molecules, Venice,
Italy. (C. Colombini, Center of Nuclear
Chemistry, Univ. of Padova, Via Loredan
6. Padova, Italy) ,
24—3. International Assoc. of Agricul-
tural Economists. 12th triennial conf.,
Lyons, France. (French Organization Com-
mittee of the Conference, 4, rue de Las-
teyrie, Paris 16". France) .
25—27. Association for Computing Ma-
chinery, 19th annual, Philadelphia. Pa.
(H. S. Bright, Philco Computers, Wlllow
Grove, Pa.) . (1
25—28. Western Electronics Show and
Conv. (WESCON), Inst. of Electrical an
Electronics Engineers, summer meestm'tge
Los Angeles. Calif. (R. R. Bennett, :11)
1920, 3600 Wilshire ‘Blvd., Los Ange es
25-29. Audiology, 7th intern. Willi:
Copenhagen. Denmark. (H. W- Ewer Sde’
c/o State Hearing Centre, 7 D. Tvaerga y
C0 enha en K .

2135—3. Ignternational Astronomical Unlglg:
12th general assembly, Hamburg, wich
many. (D. A. Bell. c/o Royal GreenHaﬂ,
Observatory. Hertsmonceaux CaStle’
sham. Sussex. England) _

26—2. British Association for the Ad
vancement of Science, 126th annual,
ampton. England. (BAAS, 3
Bldgs.. London. S.W.1, England) ,

26—2. Logic, Methodology, 3‘;
Ophy of Science, intern. con ., 1V”
Israel. (Y. Bar-Hillel, Hebrew Un
Jerusalem)

EurO‘

26—3. Electron MicrOSCOPy’ grzichoslo—

pean regional conf., prague. 145
SCIENCE, VOL'

 




Buy a lathe
and get a
BONUS!

 
  
  
 

—
COMPLETE METALWORKING SHOP
FOR SMALL PRECISION PARTS!

     
   

 

TOOL &
GRINDIN

URFACE

 

Ow

 

Model Mil-3100
with twin
headstocks,
motors, quick
change gears

Adda/m

$1395!)

Includes motor, ver-

MAXIMAT is a mighty ﬁne IO” lathe that beats ASA toolroom
specs. Think about it just as a lathe and it’s a good buy, priced
between $857 and $1279 depending on which outﬁt you select.
Where’s the bonus? The machine has two beds instead of one.

   

tical column, lathe
and drill chucks.

.IIG SAWING THREAOING

Do your own R&D and model shop machining. Unimat
turns, drills. bores. mills, threads, grinds, saws, ﬁles,

You have the usual ground and scraped-ﬂat lathe bed, and
another matching one mounted dead true vertically. Using the
same motors, chucks, headstocks and work-holders, you gain the
use of a complete vertical mill and boring machine. Use it for

 

divides, buffs. polishes. Eleven-speed range (900 to
7200 rpm) handles all materials. More than 10,000 in
use for scientific, industrial,
commercial applications. Write
for free product catalog or send ll-
$1.00 for illustrated Handbook

ofMiniature Mmﬁ“”“imumrwmuuh.

Techniques.
Dept. 8-6, 350 Broadway
New York 13, New York

Sucrose Density Gradients

grinding too . . . for indexing . . .
make gears, locate to tight tolerances
all with one machine that fits in 20
x 40 inch floor space. In R & D,
a' Maintenance and prototype design ‘ "——
work, it’s a time-and-money saving AMERICAN EDELSIAAL Illli
tool. Write for free catalog and Too- Dept 3-3, 350 Bmajway
room Timesaver Tips. New York ‘3: New Y°rk

        

 
  
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
  
   
 
 
       

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ggg;g;.7wiwgW: W- . .7. 7g, . . .WITH TH E
imRRKWWMWWWSEWrrr* I
HH 4w4,.,..L- D -H. .... 4.>H—o~<>~>;—$->—H~Ov*—>Wy 4WWV ”ﬂ“
i ‘ALOOLASE r .‘ ' “i wwwiitird
MILLMT“ ' “a ‘ ”Hi ‘ll 22 l::| l:l l::|
T I '
i:.:;:;:::}1::w’r{" r ‘tti WW“
. VRYSTALLINE
::f::::‘::f" -506”; BOVINE SERUMzﬁfzm
£53533ny " ' M“ ngzALBUMW ”WW
:1 -WH..H-..::::‘: ; -.Hi.-s.;ss-.a -- HMWWWEWM . ' . ,
CE. ‘ T4 ‘ if ‘ WW3: A fundamentally different and superior photometric concept gives
"‘7 “r ro~riiiii7 it?“ ‘3‘ 371E 9,5143% 1111355335 the Gilford 2000 spectrophotometer an output linear With absorb—
~,-,1_5 _ 21;; 4“ “H 'WWM ance over a 3.0 O. D. range, together With capability to read to
t“2’ E:::-.-.H..-- -.--....- ‘ Mi twirramg 0.001 0. D. Exceptional stability and low nOise level enhance
g ”M” k i: f- N ﬁlmmrm A Hus: these basic advantages. Automatedprogramming of up to four
5 - - i “ 3 g 313:3:ﬁgzﬁw sample cells and the availability of linear temperature measuring
3 ZZZ‘E H 2.-.-.. M guessed was: and recording, flow cells, automatic baseline compensation and
“ ~~<-~35§IZ:;W , MM f»: :22; wavelength programming further extend the usefulness. Write for
~f~ ‘ L ‘ WMW; brochure and quotation.
1-0 ii: ”“ “1“" """ “"“““"‘ wamww‘wwﬂgjg Conventional Absorbance Mea-
:~—~+~+~» ' ”if“ W“:-e~*”': surements also eaSier, more
_ Magi 3 H ”H Wwwmgjﬁmgx accurate, Dlgltal TBOOOUIZ 0-00 . - ----------
w T' ‘5. . ‘: :ﬂwwi to 3.000 0. D. SenSitiVity, dark
1 ., ,. 1 ., ““77”” ”” current controls and shutter
° 5 10 15 20 25 3° eliminated. Line operated.
TlME-MlNUTES

 

 

Scanning for proteins using the sucrose gradient techni-
que With a 10 mm Gilford Flow Cell illustrates another
Successful application of the Gilford Spectrophotometric
SYstem. This one versatile system is also readily adaptable
to column chromatography, enzyme kinetics, DNA-RNA ther-
mal denaturation, amino acid analyses . . . or your area
0f research.

 

 

PRINCIPAL CITIES THROUGHOUT THE UNITED STATES

BIOLOGY AND MEDICINE

OBERLIN OHIO

SALES OFFICES IN

INSTRUMENTATION FOR

INCORPORATED

INSTRUMENT LABORATORIES

195

 

 

 




VICKERS
I marge Splitting
Measuring '

Eyepiece

  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
   
 
  
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
   
 
 
   
   
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  

I

_. A revolutionary measuring technique

Unequalled accuracy of measurement
(0.1u —— 0.000005" or better)

Unequalled reproducibility of
measurement

Unequalled ease, speed and
simplicity of measurement

+

The ability to make precise
comparative measurements without
actually measuring at all

Send for brochure CM011550

"WM.W__ _ WW

4 “if 4.ng

‘_ ,4, .n «7;» A, ;. 7w . _.__

TROUGHTON
d7 SIMMS, Inc.

91 WAITE STREET, MALDEN 48, MASSACHUSETTS

 

 

NOW . . ..
INSTANT‘

FLOORS

with CEC’s
portable 23-1093
Oscillogram Processor

WILL SAVE
YOU HOURS
OF MIXING
TIME!

New LlQUlFLUOR* is an ex-
clusive development of Prior
Chemicals—a pre-mixed llCIUId
concentrate of PPO and
POPOP in specially purified
toluene which will save you
hours of mixing time in the
laboratory . . . and greatly re-
duce the chance for error.

Weighing only 140 lbs., yet com-
pletely self-contained, CEC’s
all-purpose 23—109B rapidly de-
velops and dries oscillograms
wherever oscillographs are

used.
Thus, by providing on-the-spot
processing, the costly time in-
terval between recording and
interpreting of data is virtually
eliminated. Equally important,
this instrument is so reliable
and efficiently designed, it may
be operated by unskilled per~
sonnel.

Other outstanding advantages

of the 23-10913 .. .

o No external water circulating
system is needed.

0 May be operated in a normally
illuminated room without dan-
ger of fogging sensitive record-
ing papers.

o An integral bath heater ther-
mostatically maintains solution
temperature.

0 Capacity-475 feet of recording
paper; ad1ustable to 12 inches.

0 Speed: Transport processes 6
to 20 feet-per-minute with 230-
volt model; 3 to 10 fpm with
115-volt model.

a Plus—unitized motor drive,
variable drum temperature
control, simplified threading
mechanism and easily removed
solution tanks. ,

For complete information, call
or write CEO for Bulletin
23109B-X10.

CEC

Data Recorders Division

CONSOLIDATED ELECTRODYNAMICS

A SUBSIDIARY OF BELL & HOWELL/PASADENA, CALIF. 91109
INTERNATIONAL SUBSIDIARIES: WOKING. SURREY. ENGLAND
AND FRANKFURT/MAIN, GERMANY

  
  
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
    

No more time-consuming la-
boratory weighing and stirring.
No more waiting for Ingredi-
ents to dissolve. All you do IS
pour LlQUlFLUOR* into the

solvent.

Independent laboratory tests
show counting efficienCIes
identical with old ‘weigh an
stir' method.

ADVANTAGES:
. Saves time
. Less chance
. Flexible -— can

mix — no waiting.
for error in compounding. 'd
be usedwith any hour
scintillator system containing toluene.t
25x concentrate. 1 ll er
and 1.25 grams
d toluenen .
e 500 milliliter

— just

. Contents: 3
contains 100 grams PPQ.
POPOP in specially purifr

. Available in 1 liter and

bottles.

FOR COMPLETE INFORMATION.
WRITE TODAY. . .
(A request on your letter-head Wlll bring
you a free sample.)

*TM

 

   

 

 




 

145

 

 

 

 

 

 

vakia. (Organizing Committee. Albertov 4,
Prague 2)

27, American Soc. for Horticultural
science, Amherst, Mass. (R. E. Marshall,
AMHS, Dept. of Horticulture, Michigan
State Univ., East Lansing)

27—28. Activation Analysis, Glasgow,
Scotland. (I. M. A. lenihan, Western
Regional Hospital Board, 9 W. Greham
St, Glasgow, C.4)

27—29. Baciﬁc S10pe Biochemical Conf.,
San Firanc1sco, Calif. (M. P. Gordon. Dept.
of Biochemistry, Univ. of Washington,
Seattle 98105)

2.7—29. Reactive Intermediates in Or-
ganic Chemistry.‘symp.. Quebec City, P.Q.,
ICJanada.'t(/C.LR. lingg‘l. {trenlté des Sciences,

niverSI e ava . newec City)

28—3. Neurology. 81h intern. congr.
Vienna, Austria. (H. llofl. Medizinische
1311:3113? NS/urologigtdie Lind Psychiatrische

g, Ienna
nu:?.NGrain3ty1Rese:Irc'li Foundation, an-
, ew os on. .'.H. (Tl F '
Gravity Village, New Bostohc) Olmdatlon,
A29—5. International Epidemiological
Nsioii: gigglgnteil‘gi. meeting, Princeton,

.. . w, Iv. of I)!“ . ° '-
cal Services, California Dating)? xii;
19415221321; 2151 Berkeley Way, Berkeley

50—2. Electronic Properties and Appli-
iitaisosnsagf sS(Zl3id-S]olid (gifiTterfaces. Boston,

. . . ill‘tll‘l‘. ‘
search, 495 Summer St ICCBOf Naval Re'
02110) . ., oston, Mass.

30_ . ‘ . . .
Miamf.BeIgil:l}:n]I:]]"ltlllg Engineering Soc.,
345 E 47 St ’ Ne: (NM 1?] (iii'invciley’ IES’

. ., . 'or'
naflo—n‘iéetélmerciclan (‘hemical Soc., fall
1155 16th g, ucago. 111.. (A. H. Emery,

30 4 St.., NW. \Vashington, DC.)
tics anngglstlfxtehm Mathematical Statis-

’ 9 n] l» I. c t ‘ . -
ford, Math ' . r€l\ "Mass. (D. M. Gil
of N ematical Sciences Div., Ofﬁce

”azalAResearch. Washington. DC.)
LaWrenee nlzerican Ornithologists’ Union,
WOlveri , an. (1.. H. Walkinshaw, 1703

30—5 niTower, Battle Creek, Mich.)
congr OM pplied Mechanics. 11th intern.
Sekretariailrémh‘ Germany. (Organisations-
fiir Mecha 1:8 Mechanik-Kongresses. Inst.

30—5. Cenll hglrcmstr. 21, .Munich 2)
Providence RI (Ojgywllthantern. congr.,
Bi010gy Biow- . .. . Wilson. Dept. of

, n Un1v., Prov1dence)

30~5. Haematolo v 10 h '

Stockholm S d g, t intern. congr.,
Box , We en. (L. E. Botiger, PD.

306538, Stockholm 1)

S — . SenSItivity Analysis of Nonlinear
yStemS, Dubrovnik Y '

GibSOn El . . ugoslaVIa. (J. E.

Pu d , ‘ectrical Engineering Dept.,
£111; Un1v., Lafayette. Ind.)

Ph'l - Electric Propulsion. 4th conf.,
iadelphia Pa (J l\ '

Cal Researcﬁ D: . I. Sellen, Jr., PhySI-

Ogy Laborat _1V., TRW/Space Technol-

dondo BeaChorasliTGne Space Park, Re-

3L3 , . i .

Assoc.' BAmerican Psychopathological
APA, 9503 lil/Fingham, Ala. (Secretary,
ton, Del) edical Arts Bldg, Wilming-

31-3 ' -
59th - American Sociological Assoc.

annual Mont l ,
SYkes, 1755, rea, Canada. (G. M.
aShington DMassachusetts Ave., NW,

314 Ld .C. 20036)

Intern .Co fW Temperature Physics, 9th
' n ., Columbus, Ohio. (The Con-

10 JULY 1964

 

 

FOR SUPERFINE
CUTTING OF HARD,
BRITTLE MATERIALS

THE s. 5,. WHITE
AIRBRASIVE® UNIT

 

We don’t know why anyone would want to slice a light bulb up like
an onion. But we do think it is an awfully good demonstration of the
Airbrasive’s ability to cut hard brittle materials. Imagine, for example,
cutting precision slivers like these with a mechanical tool!

This unique industrial tool is doing jobs that were up to now con-
sidered impossible. Its secret lies in its superﬁne jet of gas-propelled
abrasive particles that are capable of precision cutting without shock,
heat or vibration. Thus the most fragile materials can be shaped,
drilled, abraded, or cleaned with complete safety.

Use it to make cuts as ﬁne as 0.008”. ..remove surface coatings
. . . debur tiny parts. . .wire-strip potentiometers . . . adjust microminia-

ture circuits...cut germanium, silicon, ferrites, glass, ceramics. ..in

the laboratory or on the production line.
The cost is low, too. For under $1000 you can set up an Airbrasive

Cutting unit in your own shop.

WRITE FOR
BULLETIN 6006.

Complete information.

Send us samples of your
“impossible” jobs and let as
test them for you at no cost.

 

S. S. WHITE INDUSTRIAL DIVISION ~
Dept. 49A, 10 East 40th St., New York 16, N. Y. - Telephone MU 3-3015 collect.

    

é’f , INDUSTRIAL
W AIRBRASIVE'” /

197

 

 

 

 




l

 

 

 

 

TUBING ‘

3known!

for Feeding, Metering or Sampling
I Only 61/8" long, 33/8" High H '
PUMPS

° LIQUIDS
° GASES

' SLURRIES

gLF—PR/M/gg
No Corrosion - No Contamination

This new model AL Kinetic Clamp Pump will handle flow rates from
.01 to 400 cc per minute. Practically any liquid, gas or slurry can be
handled by- selecting the right tubing. A loop of the tubing is held

, between two plates, one is stationary and the other operates eccen‘
trically, forcing material along the ﬂexible tubing. Two models and
a choice of 50 different gear motors provide almost any flow rate
required within the capacity. Write for catalog.

SIGMAMO'I'OR. Inc.

68 North Main Street 7. Middleport, New York

     

 

 

 

 

 

     
    

DETECT OVERHEATING
....IIIIYWIIERE....

WITH TEMP-FLA TE®

Overheating is detected from transmissions to transistors
reactors to resistors, zeners to autoclaves in a positive, direct
manner by Temp-Plate. Simple, easy to use, immersible
and irreversible, Temp-Plate is the little plastic tab that
sticks to a unit, turns black at any desired value from 100°
to 1100°F. Available in both standard and miniature sizes
in any combinations of activating temperatures, Temp-Plate,
is impervious to production line handling and ambient

temperatures—accurate to :t1%, it provides for absolute,

indication of heat damage.

WRITE NOW
FOR FREE SAMPLE.

- ACT
UAL SIZES a

PYRODYNE. ma. LOS ANGELES. CALIF.
TEMPERATURE INDICATOR

 

PYRQDYNE, INC.
11876 'Wilshire Blvd.
Los Angeles 25. California

'alontod

 

 

110°F 120°F 130°? 140$

W

..- ﬂ»...—
ﬁ.,..» .».........,« snag”. ,.,~
.a. ,F, ,

Locking Totalizers . . .

. pseven . colors-s

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

PA" «0. no

Openings for qualified fluid components designer for missile and space systems

 

198

 

NEW!

DENOMINATOR
MULTIPLE-TALLY
WITH TOTA‘LIZER

    
  

lock all counters at
every 100 counts. Release lever quickly un-
locks machine for next 100 counts. Percentages
readily determined. A real time-saver for lab
reports.

No Over-counts . . . positive locking feature
prevents inadvertent counting beyond each 100
counts. Over-counting can lead to serious in-
accuracies and makes percentage calculations
difﬁcult.

Lightest touch, shortest stroke, least eﬁort.
Foolproof Counting "no skips," "half-
counts,” or "split ﬁgures.”

Color Coded Push Buttons . . . speed accurate
counting in many applications. Choice of

   

. '- Hake Blood. Pollen and
Qurck-change TItles . durable, pressure- PM,“ Counts with the

sensitive tape easily erased, quickly applied Denominator Lab-Counter
or removed.

Non-locking totalizers are also available . . . they continuously accumulate
the counts on the individual counters. Totalizers on Denominators availabe
from 2 to 12 counters in a row. Three-digit counters are standard, but
they also can be furnished with four digits. Write for further information,
brochure and price list.

Serving those who count since I914.

THE DENOMINATOR COMPANY, INC.
Woodbury, Connecticut

__________________.___——————-—‘

A Fraction Collector

‘70.

 

/ [Far . ‘
WW- The Limited—Budget Lab

.. .. You can have the special features you Model A collectors

want in a fraction collector. Model A available from $400:
fraction collectors by ISCO can be other models from
equpped for timed and volumetric opcr- 3180‘

ation. ISCO 5 new, improved Model A is I

extremely versatile, precise, dependable.

Features an adjustable volumetric count-
mg devrce that makes possible adjust—
ment of sample size over 20 to 1 or 240

to 1 range using drop counting or a vol-
umetric SlphOI‘l.

 

  
  
  
  
 
  

Continuously-adjustable automatic vol-
time-measuring device and other acces-
sories available. All ISCO equipment is
made from high quality corrosion resistant
material and designed for easy cleaning.

Write for
names of satisfied Customers
an or

ISCO ‘fMode A” bulletin

INSTRUMENTATION

SPECIALTIES COMPANY
Dept. F, 5624 Seward Ave..
Lincoln, Nebr. 68507

SCIENCE, VOL 145

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

ference, P.O‘. Box 3073, University Station,
Columbus 43210) I

31—4. British Assoc. of Paediatric Sur-
geons, 11th congr., Rotterdam, Nether-
lands. (Secretariat, c/o Holland Organ-
izing Centre, 16, Lange Voorhout, The
Hague, Netherlands)

31—9. Peaceful Uses of Atomic Energy,
3rd intern. conf., Geneva, Switzerland. (J.
Gaunt, United Kingdom Atomic Energy
Agency, 11 Charles 11 St., London, S.W.1,
England)

31—9. Soil Science. intern. congr., Bu-
charest, Rumania. (N. Giosan. Comite
Roumain d’Organisation, The Congress,
Bucharest 33)

September

. 1-4, AAAS, Alaska Div.. College. (G.
Dahlgren, Dept. of Chemistry, Univ. of
Alaska, College)

1—4. Aerospace Power Systems. 3rd bi-
ennial conf., Philadelphia. Pa. (American
Inst. of Aeronautics and Astronautics 2
E. 64 St., New York, N.Y. 10021) ’

1—4. Gas, 9th intern. conf., The Hague.
Netherlands. (R. H. Touwaide. General
Secretary, Intern. Gas Union. 4, Avenue
Palmerston, Brussels. Belgium)

.. 1—5. Biological Standardization. 9th

mtern. congr., Lisbon. Portugal. (C. de

l())11ve1ra, c/o Inst. Bacteriologico Camara

Legals, Rua do Instrtuto Bacteriologico,
[—5. Nuclear Magnetic Resonance and

Rslangion in Solids. intern. conf.. Lou-
1n, egium. L. V ‘

straat 61, Louvain) an GCIVED, Naamse-

01:8. Photographic and Spectroscopic
ptlcs, conf., Tokyo and Kyoto, Japan.

{JHnKubotm Science Council of Japan
621104 Pagrk, Tokyo) ’

.— .. tructure and Properties of Co-
3:311:90“ Compounds. Bratislava, Czecho-
H a 1a. (Czechoslovak Chemical Soc.

r33dcanske nam. 12, Prague 1) ,
Pra‘i' Czechoslovak Orthopedic Congr.,

5586- (M. Jaros. Libuslna 5. Prague 2)
fusio . International Soc. of Blood Trans-
Swedn, 10th biennial congr., Stockholm,
Sto en. (C. Hogman, PO. Box 434

ckholm 1) ’

R6105.I\C1}reat Basin Anthropological Conf.,

Search Iev. (W..L. d’Azevedo, Desert Re-
4—6 Est, Univ. of Nevada, Reno)

Congr. Eout and Uric Lithiasis. intern.

4 Bon’l V1an, France. (R. J. Réveillaud,
4—6 e;ard de la Bastille, Paris 12)

nual .0 farapsychological Assoc., 7th an-

Coll, x 0rd, England. (K. R. Rao, 6847
4:3(5ge Stat10n, Durham, NC.)

Paciﬁo DAmerlcan Philosophical Assoc..
ept of1V.1,)hS.eattle. Wash. (L. E. Hahn,
nivB carbonlcllzsgphy, Southern Illinois

AngelésAmgrlcan Psychological Assoc., Los

16th S, ahf. (A. H. Brayﬁeld, 1333

t- NW, Wash'

6. Spacesu‘t mgton, D.C.)

Symp, So 1 s andHuman Performance,
Us An 1c. of Engineering Psychologists,
astan 86 es, Calif. (N. M. Molesko, 4918
6‘ aIAVe., Lakewood, Calif)”

-edf}t§rnational Acad. of the History
Oymer “1119, Basel, Switzerland. (N.
. , C/o Wellcome Historical Medical

“Ibrar .
Englarild)183"H0uston Rd., London, N.W.1,

0f

10 JULY 1964

 

 

 

 

FOR EXPERIMENTS
BETWEEN 15°K and 200°K

 
      
   

Pictured: A CRYO-
TIP Refrigerator with
accessories, including
a special dewar with
four viewing ports
for spectroscopy.

New CRYO-TIP® Refrigerators

are a compact, reliable,
cryogenic temperature source

Ideal for spectrOSCOpy, ﬁeld-ion micros
ing — or any investigat

tures.
The compactness of the CRYO

during experiments. .
Temperature control as precrse as

tended periods.

copy, IR-detector and laser cool-
ive work with small specimens at cryogenic tempera-

-TIP Refrigerators permits easy handling
i 0.1°K can be maintained for ex-

ire liquid helium . . . are ready to

CRYO-TIP Refrigerators do not requ . . .
operate without elaborate preparation . . . use standard, inexpenswe nitrogen
tts net refrigeration is provided by the

and hydrogen gas cylinders. Up to 4 wa

open-cycle J oule—Thomson sys
neering development by All‘ Pro

for maximum reliability, safety, and ease of use. .
For full details, write for Technical Bulletin CRS-105-64 to:

tem. The product of over ﬁve years of engi-
ducts, CRYO-TIP Refrigerators are designed

ﬂatware/W

Advanced Products Department

P. O. Box 538 .
Allentown, Pennsylvania

 

199

 

 

 

 

 




     
   
    
     
    
   
 
 
  
  
 
   
  
 
  
   
  
 
  
 
 
 
 

 

  
  
  
  
 
  
   
   
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
   
  
  
 
 
  
  
    
  
  
  
  
   
  
   
 
  
 
 
  
    
 
  

DO YOUR

BU GWATCHING
WITH A

HONEYWELL
PENTAX!

Watching a praying mantis
through the razor-sharp lens of a
Honeywell Pentax camera may be
so absorbing that you’ll forget to
release the shutter! For with a
Honeywell Pentax, you see exactly
what the ﬁlm will see—in sharp
focus, with exact composition
and completely controlled depth
of ﬁeld.

Mantes, praying or other-
wise, and most other insects, like
to pose for Honeywell Pentax pic-

do, too.) For any type of photog-
raphy, you will ﬁnd a world of
pleasure in the dependability of
the Honeywell Pentax.

The Hla (f / 2 lens, speeds to
1/500th) is $169.50; the H3v
(f / 1.8 lens, speeds to 1 /1000th) is
$229.50, and the H3V with f/2
lens is $199.50. See them at your
dealer’s soon!

m For full-color brochure, write to

Ron Hubbard (209), Honeywell,
Denver, Colorado 80217.

   

110 my

PHOTOGRAPH IO PRODUCTS

 

200

 

tures. (Birds, animals, and ﬂowers .

well

6—11. Physical Medicine, 4th intern.
congr., Paris, France. (I. P. Held, French
15, rue

Natl. Soc. of Physical Medicine,
de l’Ecole die Medicine, Paris 6") .
6—13. Animal Reproduction and Art:-

ﬁciial - Insemination, 5th intern. congr.,

intern. conf., Vienna, Austria. (V. Gut-
mann, Verein Osterreichischer Chemiker,
1 Eschenbachgasse 9, Vienna 1)

7—11. Magnetism, intern. conf., Notting-
ham, England. (Deputy Secretary, Inst. of
0 Physics and the Physical Soc., 47 Belgrave
Sq., London, S.W.1, England)

7—1]. Microwaves, Circuit Theory, and
Information Theory, intern. conf, Tokyo,
Japan. (K. Morita, Inst. of Electrical Com-
munication Engineers of Japan, 2—8 Fuji-
micho, Chiyoda—ku, Tokyo, Japan)

7—]2. Astronautics, 15th intern. congr.,
Warsaw, Poland. (Intern. Astronautical
Federation, 250 rue St. Jacques, Paris 5°,
France)

7—12. Laurentian Hormone Conf., Bol-
ton Landing, N.Y. (J. C. Foss, 222 Maple
Ave., Shrewsbury, Mass. 01545)

7—12. Odontological Federation of Cen—
tral America and Panama, 7th congr.,
Guatemala City, Guatemala. (E. Estrada
H., Apartado Postal 513, Guatemala City)

7—12. Pharmaceutical Sciences, 24th
intern. congr., Amsterdam, Netherlands.
(Congress Secretariat, 4 Sint Agnieten-i
straat, Amsterdam—C)

7—12. Surface Active Substances, 4th
intern. congr., Brussels, Belgium. (Secre-
tary General, The Congress, 49, Square
Marie-Louis, Brussels 4)

7—19. Photogrammetry, 10th intern.
congr., Lisbon, Portugal. (A. Paes Cle-

mente, Intern. Soc. for Photogrammetry,
c/o Instituto Geograﬁco e Cadastral,
Praca da Estrela, Lisbon)

8—10. Gas Chromatography, 5th intern.
symp., Brighton, England. (Organizing
Ofﬁce, 61 New Cavendish St., London,
W.1, England)

8—10. Nonsteroidal, Antiinﬂammatory
Drugs, intern. symp., Milan, Italy. (S.
Garattini, Instituto di Richerche Farma-
cologische “Mario Negri,” Via Eritrea 62,
Milan)

9—1]. Applied Spectrosc0py and Ana-
lytical Chemistry, 11th symp., Ottawa,
Ontario, Canada. (Chemical Inst. of Can-
ada, 48 Rideau St., Ottawa 2)

9—11. Kinetics of Pyrolytic Reactions,
Ottawa, Ontario, Canada. (K. J. Laidler
Dept. of Chemistry, Univ. of Ottawa,
Ottawa 2) ’
. 9—11. European Organization for Qual-
lty Control, 8th conf., Baden-Baden, Ger-
many. (Secretariat, Weena 700, Rotterdam
3, Netherlands)

9—11. International College of Surgeons,
North Amerlcan Federation, congr., Chi-
cago, Ill. (Secretariat, 1516 Lake Shore
Dr., Chicago 60610)

 

 

 

   
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
   
 
  
  
  
 
  

 

Trento, Italy. (T. Bonadonna, Via Monte
Ortigara 35, Trento) ' 0N
- 7—9. Psychometric Soc., Los Angeles,
Calif. (W. G. Mouenkopf, Procter ,and Use
Gamble, PO. Box 599, Cincinnatl 1, ® laiesl
Ohio) d
7—10. High-Energy Electrons, symp., an
European Assoc. of Radiology, Montreux, AUTOMATED GLASSWARE lhec
Switzerland. (P. L. Cova, Casa di Cura . you.
s. Ambrogio, Via Faravalli 16, Milan, WASHING AND DRYING the,
Italy) days
7—11. Coordination Chemistry, 8th BRlNGS YOU NEW “on.

CONVENIENCE and,

0 New model with many added
features.

0 Easier to load and unload.

0 Stand-by racks for pre-loading.

0 Save up to 50% of glassware
breakage.

0 Low operating & maintenance
costs.

0 Authorized servicemen in your
area.

Check your glassware washing prob-
“Usage Re-
131 .

Iems against in-the-field
ports”. Request Bulletin No.

 

     
     

THE
CHEMICAL
RUBBER

CO.

2310 Superior Ave.
Cleveland 14, Ohio

v

A4518

SCIENCE, V01» 145

 

 




 

lion.

 

“ R d ' S ' ‘
. t on ers ervrce to Jul 1964 ' Prlt.
’ . C l Y (Expires 10 September 1964) “93333153“ ( ‘
Readers Seerce ard l ADVERTISEMENTS T
. a
ch Brush its Glas-Col l963 Pilot 2l0-l -
EP U P TO DAT E t 2:. as: Ht new W it???“
, (H T on ‘ c l98-l Sigmamotor 2l0-3 Borden.
t i at mean laa-I U.8. Stoneware l98-2 Denominator 2lI-l Durrum
3 (lg lAnllegrnatlonal lggz ghﬁrcathL Lomb iii-i rgétglyne all? Instruments 38d
ON NEW |NSTRUMENTS AND EQUIPMENT 1 23) gnlrdii'Atomlc I90 Tektronlx l99 Air Products 2i2'.2 rinlrmotyne
l en ”Sheila {312% imt’i‘i‘ée 333'; E'i‘i’é‘ﬁwiil'm Eli‘é 5”“
d t bl . 1h ; 2g Shawnee? lag-2| Pe'n'n Féuogocarbon 383' ¥ztheson| 2l3:3 Maggrltand
O O Clll‘l e .. or n- mer - e ow or no - ermo astic 2|4-l 8
Use the “We? ,Pmﬁ’ -, Hume... i :32 mt. :32. imam 332-2 522%.. E.

- f . - 88 - ' -
latest GVG'lable 'n OLmal '13)" on ' ST t I :32 hondogl :3“ Fltjllllleore“ ‘ 333' Elsie 2l5-2 Plilittlcoltmer
. _ . r U » 5 co .nss - our on non - c ma 2l6-l EC

and equipment for l e ocrotori g]? 0 t l :3; anlnnm '13:; (aﬁfsgetsiaat 383i game G" 2l6-2 Pioneer
' .. inwor - a or - imeo- ra 2|7 Ph' 5&B'd
the cord and Circle those items t or In eras . toe Polarold use: Cooke. Troughton 209-2 5.0 y ch it'll: "
you‘ Fill in your name and drop the card In l lll Beckman I96-2 CEC 209-3 New Brunswick 86 Nuclear Chicago
- ' a few
the mail. No stomp lS necessary. ln i
days you will receive the requested informo- ; NEW PRODUCTS 1 2 3
l
i
L.

. —'-'———'v-—'vv-‘—-"v—w—v~'~ W.-- ﬁ‘ﬁ:’f'_‘u._)g-

.-..--, -.-.——.--..-

Zellerfeld, Germany)
13—16. Electrical Insulation. conf., New
York, NY. (1. l.enl.e_\'. Anaconda Wire

and Cable Co.. (mi 'l'hird Ave, New
YOI‘k, N.Y. l()()l(il
13—16. American Fisheries Soc. Atlan—

tic City, N]. (E. A Seaman. I404 New

York Ave. Washington. DC.)
13—17. Power. \Vorld cont} Lausanne.
Switzerland. (US. Natl. Committee. World I

 

Power Conf., c/o lingineers .loint Council.
345 E. 47 St., New York l()(ll7)

14—15. Chromatography. 3rd intern. 95 Compressed Gases NOW Available

Symp., Brussels. Belgium. (Belgian Soc. of
Pharmaceutical Sciences. rue Archimede '
11, Brussels 4) through 12 Plants Or sales Offlces
14—15. N t 't' . (‘1 2 I; —U.S. conf., , . .
Toronto. Orllt.rl gilhadam (13.1 mM, R. Beve- Now it's easierthan everto obtain practically any compressed gas or gas mixture.
ridge, Dept, ' of Biochemistry. Queen‘s We’ve added 7 sales branches to supplement the serVIce offered by our 5 U.S.
Univ, Kingston. ()nt.) compressed gas plants. Just call the specially trained “gas man” at the nearest
14—16. Military Electronics (MlL-E- Matheson plant or office. Complete catalog of gases, regulators, etc., yours for
CON 8), intern. conf.. Inst. of Electrical the asking.

and Electronics lingineers. Washington,
13-0 (H. M. O‘Bryan. Bendix Corp. 1730

 

K St., NW.. Washington. DC. 20006) Pl “ts/Saws

14—17. International Assoc. of Milk and Sales Offices a
$2“ Sanitarians. Hartford. Conn. (H. L. Oh' East Rutherford N J

oma . / ' Cleveland 4, IO ' ' _'
Ind.) sson’ P‘O' Bm 437’ Shelbyvme’ 8920 Laisy Avenue Phone: 883-2424 P. 0- Box 85 Phone 933-2400

14—18 Aeronautical Research and De- - - Newark,CaIifornia

' t ‘ Detront 28, Mich. . _
velol’mem- NATO advisory group, 14th 9240 Hubbell Ave. Phone: 836-3301 P. 0. Box 65 Phone. 793 2559
general assembly, Lisbon. Portugal. (The K sCit Mo Joliet'HL
98861111313], 64, rue de Varenne. Paris 7", siggaTerraﬁe St: Phone: 551.3780 P.0-BOX 955 Ph0n93727'4848
rance
. P t ,Texas
_ I448. Analogue Computation. 4th Los Angeles 22. Callf- . 58060 £80.0ng 908 Phone: 4212544
Intern, Brighton. England. (E. L. Harder. 3237 8. Garfield Ave. Phone. 68 - -
Westinghou i ~ ' . - Forest Park (Atlanta), Ga.
se Electiic Corp. East Pitts- d Cincinnati), Ohio . _

burgh. Pa.) Egggoﬁigéland Ave. Phone: 631-3220 P. O. Box 725 Phone. 478-7274-
_ 14—18. Aviation and Space Medicine. . . P ,
Intern. congr., Dublin. Ireland. (3. O’Quig- Ph'ladelphla 48' a. Sts Phone: 462-4700
FY, Aer Lingus—Irish International Air— JaCKSO” &5wanson '
mes, Dublin Airport, Dublin. Ireland) St. Louis 15, Mo. . 5 5992 l

1448. Mass Spectrometry, intern. conf.., 5147 Brown Ave. Phone. 38 -

Paris, France. (Secretariat. Grouper“em
POUr l’Avancement des Méthodes Spec- IIIE
trOgraphiques,

1, rue Gaston-Boissier,

 

Paris 15v) N J
”~18. Microwave Tubes, 5th intern. Home Office: East Rutherford. - -

ioongzrb, Paris. France. (Secretariat, B.P. #7 b O t '
- , Bagneux, S ' , France) Whit n aI’IO
I448. Operatioierienesearen and the MATHESON OF CANADA/ y.

 
 

Eocial Sciences, intern. conf., Cambridge-
Cngland, (Operational Research SOC-9 64
amlOn St., London E.C.4, England)

10 JULY 1964

 

 

203

 




 

 

Please print

    

Honeywell

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

DO YOUR
BUGWATCHING
WITH A
HONEYWELL
PENTAX!

Watching a praying mantis
through the razor-sharp lens of a
Honeywell Pentax camera may be
so absorbing that you’ll forget to
release the shutter! For with a
Honeywell Pentax, you see exactly
what the ﬁlm will see—in sharp
focus, with exact composition
and completely controlled depth
of ﬁeld.

Mantes, praying or other-
wise, and most other insects, like
to pose for Honeywell Pentax pic-
tures. (Birds, animals, and ﬂowers
do, too.) For any type of photog-
raphy,. you will ﬁnd a world of
pleasure in the dependability of
the Honeywell Pentax.

The Hla (f / 2 lens, speeds to
1/500th) is $169.50; the H3v
(f / 1.8 lens, speeds to 1 /1000th) is
$229.50, and the H3V with f/2
lens is $199.50. See them at your
dealer’s soon!

a

 

 

 

 

 

For full-color brochure, write to
Ron Hubbard (209), Honeywell,
Denver, Colorado 80217.

   

 

 

PHOTOGRAPH Ic PRODUCTS
200

“a

2 ; I
a r '
I_ g BUSINESS FIRST cLAss l
3 . REPLY MAIL PERMIT No.12711 |
3 3 NEW YORK. N.Y. |
- v; No postage stamps necessary I
g 5'3 if mailed in the United States , i
g g —. I
g. < —- Postage will be paid by —— — I
r: < _ |
2 £1 — |
3 u_ — |
3 ° SCIENCE MAGAZINE — 1
: . g g I . — I
; 3 E Room 1740, Readers SerVIce — |
: I E — I
g : a 11 West .42 Street — |
.- 3 .4 = — I
.g 3 g a New York, NY. 10036 — 1
'7. g g .. — |
no. w < If — l

__ _____ ._ _______________________ 1.

Physics and the Physical 500., 4'/ belgrave

Sq., London, S.W.1, England)

7—11. Microwaves, Circuit Theory, and
Information Theory, intern. conf, Tokyo,
Japan. (K. Morita, Inst. of Electrical Com-
munication Engineers of Japan, 2—8 Fuji-
micho, Chiyoda—ku, Tokyo, Japan)

7—12. Astronautics, 15th intern. congr.,

Warsaw, Poland. (Intern. Astronautical
Federation, 250 rue St. Jacques, Paris 5°,
France)

7—12. Laurentian Hormone Conf., Bol-
ton Landing, N.Y. (J. C. Foss, 222 Maple
Ave., Shrewsbury, Mass. 01545)

7—12. Odontological Federation of Cen-
tral America and Panama, 7th congr.,
Guatemala City, Guatemala. (E. Estrada
H., Apartado Postal 513, Guatemala City)

7—12. Pharmaceutical Sciences, 24th
intern. congr., Amsterdam, Netherlands.
(Congress Secretariat, 4 Sint Agnieten-i
straat, Amsterdam—C)

7—12. Surface Active Substances, 4th
intern. congr., Brussels, Belgium. (Secre-
tary General, The Congress, 49, Square
Marie—Louis, Brussels 4)

7—19. Photogrammetry, 10th intern.
congr., Lisbon, Portugal. (A. Paes Cle-
mente, Intern. Soc. for Photogrammetry,
c/o Instituto Geograﬁco e Cadastral,
Praga da Estrela, Lisbon)

8—10. Gas Chromatography, 5th intern.
symp., Brighton, England. (Organizing
Office, 61 New Cavendish St., London,
W.1, England)

8—10. Nonsteroidlal, Antiinﬂammatory
Drugs, intern. symp., Milan, Italy. (S.
Garattini, Instituto di Richerche Farma-
cologische “Mario Negri,” Via Eritrea 62,
Milan)

9—1]. Applied Spectrosc0py and Ana-
lytical Chemistry, 11th symp., Ottawa,
Ontario, Canada. (Chemical Inst. of Can-
ada, 48 Rideau St., Ottawa 2)

9-11. Kinetics of Pyrolytic Reactions,
Ottawa, Ontario, Canada. (K. J. Laidler,
Dept. of Chemistry, Univ. of Ottawa
Ottawa 2) ’

9—11. European Organization for Qual-
ity Control, 8th conf., Baden—Baden, Ger-
many. (Secretariat, Weena 700, Rotterdam
3, Netherlands)

9—1]. International College of Surgeons,
North American Federation, congr., Chi-
cago, Ill. (Secretariat, 1516 Lake Shore
Dr., Chicago 60610)

HOW TO USE CARD

For Advertisements. Circle the number of the page on

which ad appears Company names a

. - ppear to the ’
Cards on which all numbers are circled will not be “gilt
essed. p ‘c-

Address. Fill in name, position, department, employer
and address on the address side of card. Cards not in:

cluding position and employer will not be processed.

For New Products. Circle the number given at the end of
each paraaraph in the New Products section (page 207).

Additional card on page 103.

 

 

0 New model with many added
features.

0 Easier to load and unload.

0 Stand-by racks for pre-loading.

0 Save up to 50% of glassware
breakage.

0 Low operating & maintenance
costs.

0 Authorized servicemen in your
area.

Check your glassware washing prob-
“Usage Re-
131.

lems against in-the-field
ports". Request Bulletin No.

 

 

 

     
     

THE

CHEMICAL
RUBBER

CO.

2310 Superior Ave.
i Cleveland 14, Ohio

A4518

SCIENCE, VOL- 145

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

9-12. Society of General Physiologists,
Woods Hole, Mass. (R. Milkman, Dept,
of Zoology, Syracuse Univ., Syracuse
N.Y. 13210) ’

942. American Political Science Assoc.,
annual, Chicago, Ill. (The Association,
1726 Massachusetts Ave., NW, Washing-
ton, DC. 20036)

10—13. General Practice, 6th intern.
congr., Salzburg, Austria. (K. Engelmeier,
Intern. College of Medical Practice, Lange
Str. 21a, 474 Oelde. Germany)

11—12. Diseases Common to Animals
and Man, annual West-Northccntral conf.,
Omaha, Nebr. (N. (i. Miller, College of
Medicine, Univ. of Nebraska, Omaha 5)

11—12. Scandinavian Neurosurgical Soc.,
18th annual, Oslo, Norway. (K. Kristian-
sen, Neurosurgery l)cpl., Ulleval Sykehus,
Oslo)

11—14. German Soc. of Metallurgy and
Mining, general assembly. Hanover. (Ge-
sellschaft Deutschcr Mctallhiitten und
Bergleute, Paul-lirnststr. 10, Clausthal-
Zellerfeld, Germany)

13—16. Electrical Insulation, conf., New
York, N.Y. (J. lenkey. Anaconda Wire
and Cable Co.. 605 Third Ave., New
York, N.Y. 10mm

13—16. American Fisheries Soc. Atlan-
tic City, NJ. (E. A. Seaman. I404 New
York Ave., Washington. I).C.)

13—17. Power. \Vorld conf., Lausanne.
Switzerland. (US. Natl. Committee, World
Power Conf., c/o l-‘ngineers .loint Council,
345 E. 47 St., New York 10017)

14—15. Chromatography. 3rd intern.
symp., Brussels. Belgium. (Belgian Soc. of
Pharmaceutical Sciences. rue Archimede
11, Brussels 4)

14—15. Nutrition. (‘anadian-US. conf..
Toronto. Ont., Canada. (J. M. R. Beve-

ridge: Dept. of Biochemistry. Queen’s
Univ., Kingston. ()nt.)
14—16. Military Electronics (MIL-E-

CON 8), intern. cont] Inst. of Electrical
and Electronics Engineers. Washington.
DC. (H. M. 081‘} an. Bendix Corp.. 1730
K St., NW.. Washington. DC. 20006)

14—17. International Assoc. of Milk and
F00d Sanitarians. Hartford. Conn. (H. L.
Thomasson, PO. Box 437. Shelbyville,
Ind.)

14—18. Aeronautical Research and De-
veloPment. NATO advisory group. 14th
general assembly, lishon. Portugal. (The
Assembly, 64, rue de Varenne. Paris 7".
France)
intlejgmg .Analogue Computation. 4th
W 3, righton. England. (E. L. Harder.
beSt‘nghouse Electric Corp.. East Pitts-
urgh, Pa.)
intéjgm. Aviation-and Space Medicine.
ley Acongrq Dublin. Ireland. (S. O’Qurg-
lines Er Lingus—Irish International Air-

14,48Ub1m A1rport. Dublin. Ireland)
Paris F. Mass Spectrometry, intern. conf..
pourarArance. (Secretanat. Groupement
tr0gra h_Vancement des Methodes Spec-
Paris? Flues, 1, rue Gaston-Boissier,

5 )
0051;711:162}; Microwave Tubes. 5th intern.
110-20, Bans. France. (Secretariat, B.P.

144,8 agneuX..Se1ne. France)

Social S-c.0l)el'ational Research and the
ngland iences, intern. conf.. Cambridge.

anno ' (Operational Research Soc., 64

H St., London E.C.4, England)

10 JULY 1964

 

 

E. Rutherford

EL.=I' “3
‘I I '
39g;

.lj'.‘ Forest
I Park
I Plants & Sales

0 Sales Offices .

Matheson
Expands!

95 Compressed Gases Now Available
through 12 Plants or Sales Offices

Now it’s easier than ever to obtain practically any compressed gas or gas mixture.
We've added 7 sales branches to supplement the service offered by our 5 U.S.
compressed gas plants. Just call the specially trained “gas man” at the nearest
Matheson plant or office. Complete catalog of gases, regulators, etc., yours for
the asking.

 
   
 

 
 

 

Sales Offices Plants/Sales

East Rutherford, N. J.

Cleveland 4, Ohio
P. O. Box 85 Phone: 933-2400

8920 Laisy Avenue Phone: 883-2424

Newark, California

Detroit 28, Mich.
P. O. Box 65 Phone: 793-2559

9240 Hubbell Ave. Phone: 836-3301

Joliet, Ill.

Kansas City, Mo.
P. O. Box 966 Phone: 727-4848

3160 Terrace St. Phone: 561-8780

La Porte, Texas

Los Angeles 22, Calif.
P. O. Box 908 Phone: 421-2544—

3237 8. Garfield Ave. Phone: 685-8060
Forest Park (Atlanta), Ga.

' ‘ ti , Ohio
Norw00d (C'nc'nna ) P.O. Box 725 Phone: 478-7274-

2909 Highland Ave. Phone: 631-3220

Philadelphia 48, Pa.

Jackson & Swanson Sts. Phone: 462-4700

St. Louis 15, Mo.
5147 Brown Ave.

MA'I'II £50“

Home Office: East Rutherford, N. J.

 

Phone: 385-5992

WATH ESON OF CANADA / Whitby, Ontario

    

203

 

 

 




  
 
 
   
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
   
     
 

‘ 14—18. Radio Meteorology, world conf.,
| '15 CRYSTAL Boulder, Colo. (J. W. Herbstreit, Central
'“' A Radio Propagation Laboratory, National

' . _ Bureau of Standards, Boulder 8030.1)
6 L E A 14—18. Weather Radar, 11th conf..
Boulder. Colo. (J. W. Herbstreit, Central
Radio Propagation Laboratory, National ‘
WHY You ' Bureau of Standards Boulder Research
SHOULD SPECIFY ' Laboratories, Boulder) ‘

14—19. Ceramics, 9th intern. congr..
Brussels, Belgium. (European Assoc. for

Ceramics. 13, rue des Poissoniers, Brus— ,
sels 1) M I c n O T D M E

14—19. Instruments and Measurements.

6th intern. conf.. Stockholm. Sweden. K N Iv E S
(RESO Cong. Service, Stockholm 1)

 

15—17. Armed Forces Management
Assoc. 11th natl. conf.. Detroit. Mich. LAST
(The Association, PO. Box 7603, Wash—

ington, D.C.)

15—17. Luminesence. conf.. Hull. York—
shire. England. (G. F. J. Garlick. Physics
Dept.. Univ. of Hull, Hull)

15—17. Chemical Reaction Engineering,
3rd European symp.. Amsterdam. Nether-
lands. (J. G. van de Vusse, c/o Kon. Shell
Laboratorium. Badhuisweg 3, Amsterdam)

15—18. Nuclear Photography, intern.
conf., Geneva. Switzerland. (Scientiﬁc
Conf. Secretariat, European Organization
for Nuclear Research. Geneva 23)

15—19. Industrial Chemistry. 35th in-
» tern. congr. Warsaw, Poland. (Secretariat.
Rydgiera 8, Warsaw 86)

. .. - 16—18. American Assoc. of Medical
Clinics. annual, Bal Harbour. Fla. (The
Association, Box 58, Charlottesville. Va.)

17—18. Computing, 7th annual North-
west conf., Seattle, Wash. (R. K. Smith.
Northwest Computing Assoc., Box. 836.
Seahurst. Wash.)

17—18. Engineering Management, conf..
Cleveland, Ohio. (Inst. of Electrical and
Electronics Engineers, Box A, Lenox Hill
Station, New York, N.Y. 10021)

17—19. Cancer, 5th natl. conf.. Phila—
delphia, Pa. (American Cancer Soc., 219
E. 42 St., New York, N.Y. 10017)

17—19. British Assoc. of Urological
Surgeons, annual, Shefﬁeld, England. (Joint
Secretariat, 47 Lincoln’s Inn Fields. Lon-

don, W.C.2, England) 1' | M E S L a N G E R

17—20. Science Education, intern. conf.,

   
 
  
 
  
  
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
   
 
  

I Chemically Inert I Highly Flex-
ible I Standard Diameters Avail-
able: M54” to 4” I Custom Sizes

     
     
     
    
    
 

Banff, Alberta, Canada. (S. Trieger. Fac- Jung microtome knives will retain their superb
2 gunfigigteggogfgpelgtligg Reqfﬂgfnt ulty of Education, Univ. of Alberta. Ed- cutting edges 5 times longer than any exrsting
. ' ' ' monton, Canada) knives, due to an entirely new process an-
Laboratory EXPerlmeMS 11? Fun 18. Hungarian Chemical Soc Tihan steel composition. Features include:
Scale Production I Nationally (M. T. Beck, Szabadsag ter 17 .Buda e33], 0 four different profiles .
Distributed 5, Hungary) ’ p o eleven lengths; from 10 to 60 centimeters

  
     
    
   
   
 
      
 

0 each knife carefully tested for temper an

     
     
       
 
  
   
        
    
     
     
  
   

19-26. Gyuecology and Obstetrics 4th - - -
. . , ~ grinding erfection

LAUGLQQ‘QQQ LNOW , , , {2:113 clgijiiégugftseflrefi Argentina (11. o ideal for gutting even extremely hard
Excelon Tubing Brochure with Cl Chem- Hospital de Clinical:a Ce’ Emecologia, surfaces ' ' ' l

ical Resistance Chart 1:] Physical Pro- Bueno A' s, or oba 2149, o in srze,.shape, and profile, each origlna
perties Chart [:1 Pressure Chart 1:] Sizes S ”6.8) . Jung microtome knife '5 precrsely adapte
Available Cl Prices [3 . 19—27.Scrent1ﬁc Films Assoc. 18th to 't5 particular use _ .

Samples [:1 Name of intern. congr., Athens, Greece. (SPA, 38. 0 almost 100.years'experience in

Nearest Distributor Avenue des Ternes, Paris 17“, France) manufacturing knives .

20—23. Ceramic-Metal Systems, Ameri- There '5 a lung Microtome Knife for every.

application. For particulars. contact your lab-
oratory squly house or write directly 10:
William J. Hacker & Company, Inc., BOX 6 '
West Caldwell, New Jersey, CA 6-8450 (201).

can Ceramic Soc., French Lick, Ind. (ACS,

4055 North High St., Colu b '
43214) m us, 01110

20—23. American Inst. of Chemical
Engineers, Las Vegas, Nev. (F. J. Van
ntwerpen, 345 E. 47 St., New Y
N.Y. 10017) ork.

20—24. American Soc of Oral Sur
. . geons.
Chicago, 111. (E. W. Gilgan, 119 North ac 81,
Michigan Ave. Chicago 11) ‘

SCIENCE. VOL ‘45

 

THERMOPLASTIC

PROCESSES, INC.

VALLEY ROAD - STIRLING, N. .l.

(201) Millington 7-1000 0 (607) COrtland 7-6220
TWX — 201-647-4390

 

204

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

20—25. Neuroradiology, 7th symp,, New
York, NY. (J. M. Taveras, Neurological

Inst., Columbia-Presbysterian Medical
Center, New York, NY. 10032)
20—26. Anaesthesiology, 3rd World

congr., Sfto Paulo. Brazil. (L. Rodrigues
Alves, Caixa Postal 330, $50 Paulo)

21—24. Agricultural Engineering, intern.
congr., Lausanne, Switzerland. (P. Re-
gamey, Etat de Vaud, l4. Cite-Devant,
Lausanne)

21—24. German Soc. for Psycholo ,
24th congr., Vienna, Austria. (I. Rohraglbf-
er, Deutsche Gesellschaft fiir Psychologie,
Am Hof le, 5300 Bonn, Germany)

21—25. 1:411:11]? CarCe Panel, 15th annual
New Yor', . . (A ,‘P, PO. Box 1028,
Joliet, 111. 60434)

21—26. Documentation. 30th intern.
conf., The Hague. Netherlands, (Intern.
Federation for Documentation, 7 Hofweg,
The Hague)

21—26. Electrochemical Thermodynam-
ics and Kinetics. intern. London, Eng-
land. (M. Fleischmann, Dept. of Physical
Chemistry, Univ. of Newcastle upon Tyne,
England)

21—26. Parasitology. lst intern. congr.,
Rome, Italy. (A. (‘orradettL lnstituto di
Parassitologia, Citta Universitaria, Rome)

22—24. Many-Body Problems in Physics
and Chemistry, conf., Manchester, Eng-
land. (Administration Assistant, Inst. of
Physics and the Physical Soc.. 47 Bel-
grave Sq., London. S.W.l, England)

22—25. Middle East Neurological SOC.,

Ankara, Turkey. (N. Avman, c/o Hacet-
tepe Tip Fakiiltesi. Ankara)
. 22—25. Soil Micromorphology, 2nd
Intern, Arnhem. Netherlands. (A. Jon-
genus, Stichting voor Bodenmartering,
Postbus 10. Bennekom. Netherlands)

22—28. Radiology, llth intern. congr.
Rome, Italy. (L. Turano, Instituto de
Radiologia, Univ. of Rome, Rome)

23—26. British Assoc. for Cancer Re-
search, annual. Edinburgh, Scotland. (I.
G. Bennette, Courtauld lnst.. Middlesex
Hospital, London, W.l. England)
Verify—ii. Viral Diseases of Poikilothermic
szko 1‘; es, NewnYork..N.Y. (S. P. Sme-
LeestowaStem Fish Disease Laboratory,

n, P.O. Kearneyvrlle. W.Va 25430)
ASiZ—27. American Medical Writers’
20000.13 annual, Philadelphia, Pa. (AMWA,

25—268“ NW, Washington. DC.) .
sym MCommunications. 3rd Canadian
ren P130 Ontreal, Quebec. (F. G. R. War-

2730' Box' 802. Station B, Montreal)
64th a . Socrety of American Foresters,
ldg $111211, Denver, Colo. (SAF. Mills

27:] :‘sjhmgton, DC. 20006)
tion 3-7 hater Pollution Control Federa-
(WP,CF t3903nwal. Bal Harbour, Ela.
tOn, DC. 20016)tsconsm Ave.. Washing-
Televiii. SOEiety of Motion Picture and

ew Yd"; ngmeers, 96th technical conf.,
New Y0:k’ 1:1.YY. (lsggng, 619 W. 54 St.,

28‘30. ’Circuit and System Theor

. y.

wens: olillgticel'lo‘ 111. .(W. R. Perkins.

Illinois Uriicrtggcal Engineering. Univ. of

3rd nat] Socrety for Applied Spectroscopy,

ger, De. tconf., Cleveland, Ohio. (E. Yea-

Serve Urﬁv 0f Chemistry. Western Re-
.. Cleveland 44106)

10 JULY 1964

‘

 

What makes a

 

* better

for testing applications?

Only term/ﬂier potentiometric
recorders can furnish six channels
of correlated data on a single chart.
They offer more electrical perform-
ance, more convenience, and versa~
tility for difficult testing applica-
tions. These quality instruments
give you extra features at no extra
cost, such as 1/2-second pen speed,
at least 40,000 ohms off-balance in-
put impedance, interference rejec-
tion as high as 30,000,00011. For a
little extra, you can get 100 micro-

volt sensitivity full scale.

When you consider dollars/chan-
nel of recording, multi-channel
rewo/riter recorders are your best
buy . . . more channels per chart,
less panel space per recorder, fewer
charts to change or purchase. If

convenience matters, there's op-

tional finger-tip chart speed selec-
tion, removable inkwells, automatic
chart take-up for inspeCtion and
rewind, easy chart loading, pull-out
chassis, and internal scale lighting.
Ask your TI representative for a
demonstration of this fine instru-

ment 8000.

Choose from: input ranges of
100 ,uv to 100 mv; mercury cell or
zener reference; 1/2- to 5-second
pen speeds; 1—6 channels; several

chart speed ratios.

 

* Trademark of Texas Insrruments Incorporated

° TEXAS INSTRUMENTS

INDUSTRIAL [7
PRODUCTS
GROUP

INCORPORATED

P. 0. BOX 66027

HOUSTON, TEXAS 77006

637

205

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The most advanced Zeiss Research Metallograph

Designed to solve today's research problems in ferrous, non-
ferrous and rare metals, ores and ceramic materials.

NEW gliding stage with spring-action specimen holder aligns
the polished surface of the specimen from beneath to be per-
fectly perpendicular to the optical axis and permits viewing of
specimens from above.

NEW Antiflex Objectives with adjustable compensating devices
to increase contrast of low reflectance specimens. Images are
absolutely flat and sharp to extreme edge of field of view.

NEW Low Power Luminars, especially coated to eliminate re-
flexes, permitting the photographing of specimens with magni-
fications as low as 6.5x, with excellent definition. even illumina-
tion and high contrast.

CARL ZEISSJNC.

444 Fifth Avenue, New York 18, New York

206

 

NEW Phase Contrast equipment for reflected light permits
observation and photography of details of specimens difficult
to etch.

A selection of three light sources is available: tungsten, mer-
cury and carbon arc with automatic feed.

This Research Metallograph permits the highest degree 0f
performance yet attained in photomicrography and DhOtO‘
macrography. At the touch of a button, the automatic camera
produces properly exposed photographs. It accepts standard
4 X 5 in. plate, sheet film, and Polaroid soo. Attachment avail-
able for 35mm film. The camera head can be replaced by a
projection screen. Power control and drawers with fittings for
all accessories are provided in the instrument table on which
the Metallograph is placed. Write to Dept. SC for complete
details, or visit our showrooms for a demonstratibn.

The Great Name in Optics

WEST GERMANY
BRANCH OFFICES lN ATLANTA. CHICAGO. Los ANGELES. SAN FRANCISCO. SEATTLE

lN CANADA: TORONTO. MONTREAL. WlNNlPEG, VANCOUVER

SCIENCE, VOL. 145

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

Three-station fermenter features three
glass fermenters of 4-liters’ capacity,
operated singly or simultaneously, and
full visibility of the culture, since a
water bath is not used for temperature
control. Each of the three fermenters
has its own temperature indicator and
controller, ﬂow-controlled air supply,
tachometer indicator. magnetic drive
speed control, and temperature control.
The 4-liter fermenter jars are of Kimax.
The magnetic driving rotor for each
fermenter is built into the cabinet and
rotates a shaft holding two six-bladed
cast epoxy impellers for each fer-
menter. The impellers are adjustable in
height and can conform to established
fermenter design speciﬁcations. The
elimination of shaft seals prevents pos-
sible contamination. The rotation speed
of the epoxy impellers ranges from 0 to
1000 rev/min for each fermenter.
Temperature control for each fermenter
is possible from +10°C to +50°C.
Hot or cold water to triple jet spray
riﬁgs surrounding each of the three
fermenters is controlled by a solenoid
Valve. This ring supplies a thin coating
0f hot or cold water to the side of each
fermenter on demand from the control-
ler. The culture temperature in each
0f the three fermenters is sensed by a
thermister probe mounted in the ther-
mowell in each fermenter head. Tem-
pered Water from the common reservoir
ﬂoods the outer wall of the fermenter

\

the“; material in this section is prepared by
R Ollowmg contributing writers:
sista(1)1bert 1" BPWman (R.I_.B.), with the as-
of 1.6:“:ij Denis J. Prager (D.J.P.), Laboratory
tute Emcal Development, National Heart Insti-
biomed-ethCSda 14, Md. (medical electronics and
JOSh1cal laboratory equipment). .
lion 11:13 Stern (15.), Basic Instrumentation Sec-
ten:25 ational Bureau of Standards, Washing-
and ’ D'C- (Physms, computing, electronics,
nuclear e(illipment).
e mermation reported here is obtained
considemanufacturers .and from other sources
e Wred to be reliable. Neither Sczence nor
TaCy (ﬁlters assume responsibility for the accu-
or use ’fhe qurmation. A Readers’.Serv1ce.card
'Sted i In mallmg Inquiries concerning the items
te des mCIUded on pages 103 and 20.1. Circle
on parfment number of the items in which
are Interested on this card.

1° JULY 1964

frOm

New Products

and immediately drains back into the
reservoir. A direct reading temperature
indicator/ controller (range +50°F to
225°F) controls reservoir temperature.
Reservoir water is heated by a 200-0-
watt immersion heater and cooled by an
external water supply. Air supply is
regulated by a pressure regulator (range,
1 to 25 lb/in.2). A panel-mounted pres-
sure gauge has a range of 0 to 30
lb/in.2 Three ﬂow meters with needle
valves for individual fermenter air sup-
ply control are also included.——-—D.J.P.
(Cenco Instruments Corp., Gardiner,
N.Y.)
Circle 1 on Readers’ Service card:

Time derivative computer produces
an output voltage proportional to the
rate of change of the input voltage.
Developed for use with the Cahn Re-
cording Electrobalances to compute the
rate of change of sample weight, the
device will compute thederivative of
any voltage applied to it, and thus can
be used with most scientiﬁc instruments
with recorder or meter readout. The
computer is of the passive electrical
type and presents no d-c load to the
primary instrument. Its dynamic input
impedance may be approximated by
30 kohm in series with 90 mfd. Seven
ranges, selected by panel switch, are:
0.2, 0.4, 1, 2, 4, 10, and 20 mv/sec
on a 1-m recorder. The time derivative
is particularly important in studies of
changing weights such as thermograv1-
metric analysis, evaporation rates, and
vapor pressure determinations. It brings
out subtle details otherwise overlooked,
distinguishes between similar weight
curves, increases precision of .rate. of
change determinations, and Simpliﬁes
theoretical considerations. Simultaneous
recording of weight and derivative op
separate recorders is found most usefu .
The computer is designed for limv
potentiometric recorder-s, either X-time
or X-Y, but less sensitive recorders may

be used. With the Ca
balance, the seven ranges

hn RG Electro-
are 0.2 to

20 mg/ min on a l-mv recorder, and for

the RM Electrobalance they are 0.1
to 10 mg/mm on a l-mv recorder.
Exact calibration is done by simultane-
ous recording of weight and derivative
on a given sample. An uncalibrated
zero-suppression control sets zero rate
of change to any point on a l-mv re-
corder. The device does not interfere
with normal weight recording nor does
it respond to normal operation of bal-
ance controls.—D.J.P. (Cahn Instru-
ment Co., 15505 Minnesota Ave.,
Paramount, Calif.)

Circle 2 on Readers’ Service card

Laboratory monitor is a low-cost
instrument suited for general laboratory
monitoring, training purposes, and
classroom demonstrations. It also con-
tains a sealer circuit for quantitative
measurements. As a ratemeter it has
ﬁve ranges covering a wide range of
radiation intensities (300, 1000, 3000,
10,000, 30,000 count/ min) and a 1 ma
output for external chart recorders. As
a scaler, it has a total capacity of 10,000
counts integrated directly on a 41/2
inch meter. Counting accuracy is i15
percent of true counting rate. The sealer
operates by placing the “count on-off”
switch in the count position and letting
the sealer integrate for a predetermined
time. A stop-watch can be used. After
the required time has elapsed, the ‘
switch is turned off and the counts are
read on the meter. To stop counting
at a predetermined time automatically,
a preset timer can be used. The high
voltage can be Varied from 200 to 1300
volts d-c in 100-Volt steps by a separate
switch on the front panel. This range
allows the instrument to accept a wide
variety of. standard GM Tubes. Input
requires negative polarity pulses with
sensitivity preset at Mt volt for GM
detectors. Aural indication of the count-
ing rate is provided by a 21/2—inch
speaker whose volume has been preset
to provide sufﬁcient intensity for moni-
toring and classroom purposes. Where
sound is not required, the speaker can
be deactivated by a rear panel switch.
The use of the speaker does not affect
the accuracy of the instrument. An
internal test circuit enables the user to
check the operation of the instrument
easily and rapidly. The monitor is also
available as a complete counting sys-
tem, Model SR-234C, which includes
End-Window GM Tube and Probe

Holder.——D.J.P. (Atomic Accessories
Inc., 811 W. Merrick Rd., Valley
Stream, N.Y.)

Circle 3 on Readers’ Service card

207

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

for Researchers
Working with

I TOXIC CHEMICALS

I RADIOACTIVE MATERIALS
I CONTAMINANTS

I MIRACLE METALS

This new book is a comprehensive
reference on safety enclosures for
handling a wide variety of hazard-
ous substances. Profusely illus-
trated, it contains detailed de-
scriptions of regular and vacuum

dry boxes, biological safety cab-

inets, fume hoods, pressurized
enclosures, controlled-atmosphere
boxes, waste containers, laboratory
furniture and sinks, process units
and unitized dry box systems.
You’ll find an enclosure to meet
almost any contamination or
safety problem. Send for your
copy now.

VACUUM DRY BOX
For controlled-
atmosphere work.
Stainless steel.
‘One. of many
safety enclosures
described.

 

S. BLICKMAN, INC.

6907 Gregory Ave. . Weehawken, N. J.

1:] Please send book on safety enclosures
[:1 Also send catalog on laboratory furniture I

NAME

TITLE

 

COMPANY

 

ADDRESS

 

CITY STAT E

--— [or (few 07 755114516 Swim-1'

208

 

 

r-------¢I----1 gs:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

55.1.9225?—

(Continued from page 148)

Advances in Nuclear Science and Tech-
nology. vol. 2. Ernest J. Henley and
Herbert Kouts, Eds. Academic Press,
New York, 1964. 388 pp. Illus. $14. Six
papers: “Reactor transfer functions,” Ce-
sar Sastre; “Heat exchangers in nuclear
power plants,” George T. Lewis, Jr.,
Michael Zizza, and Paul DeRienzo; “The
formation of free radicals in polymers by
radiation, their reactions and reactivi-
ties,” M. G. Ormerod; “Measurements
of reactor parameters in subcritical and
critical assemblies,” Irving Kaplan; “Scat-
tering of thermal neutrons from solids
and their thermalization near equilib-
rium,” L. S. Kothari and V. P. Duggal,
and “Some aspects of the use of digital
computers in nuclear reactor design,”
Bernard W. Roos and Ward C. Sangren.

Advances in Structure Research by
Diffraction Methods. vol. 1. R. Brill, Ed.
Vieweg, Braunschweig, Germany; Inter-
science (Wiley), New York, 1964. 227
pp. Illus. $13.50. Six papers: “The deter-
mination of crystal structures by neutron-
diffraction measurements,” G. E. Bacon;
“Fourier synthesis of potential in electron
diffraction structure analysis and its appli-
cations to the study of hydrogen atoms,”
B. K. Vainshtein; “The determination of
phase angles,” J. Karle; “Die thermische
Untergrundstreuung und ihre Anwendung
zur Strukturuntersuchung von Molekiilen
in Kristallen,” W. Hoppe; “Allgemeine
Gesichtspunkte fiir die Deutung diffuser
Interferenzen von fehlgeordneten Kris-
tallen,” H. Jagodzinski, and “Antisym-
metry, colour symmetry and degenerate
symmetry,” A. Niggli.

Alicyclic Compounds. Douglas Lloyd.
Elsevier, New York, 1964. 181 pp. Illus.
$6.50. A textbook aimed at the “honours
undergraduate student or the non-special-
ist postgraduate.”

Analysis in Function Space. Proceed-
ings of a conference (Dedham, Mass),
June 1963. William Ted Martin and Irv—
ing Segal, Eds. M.I.T. Press, Cambridge,
Mass, 1964. 224 pp. Illus $6.

Analytical Chemistry of Niobium and
Tantalum. ROSS W. Moshier. Pergamon,
London; Macmillan, New York, 1964.
284 pp. Illus. $12.75.

Applied Physics. Herman W. Pollack.
Prentice-Hall, Englewood Cliffs, N.J.,
1964. 784 pp. Illus. $13.25.

Chemistry: A Physical Approach. Wil-
liam F. Sheehan. Allyn and Bacon, Bos-
ton, 1964. 615 pp. Illus. $8.75.

Chemistry and Technology of Explo-
sives. vol. 1. Tadeusz Urbaﬁski. Trans-
lated from the Polish edition by Irena
Jeczalikowa and Sylvia Laverton. Perga-
mon, London; Macmillan, New York,
1964. 651 pp. Illus. $15.

Chemistry in Premixed Flames. C. P.
Fenimore. Pergamon, London; Macmil-
lan, New York, 1964. 129 pp. Illus. $5.

Chimica Generale e Inorganica. Giu-
seppe Bruni. Tamburini Editore, Milan,
Italy, ed. 12, 1964. 748 pp. Illus. L.
7,000.

Collision Phenomena in Ionized Gases.
Earl W. McDaniel. Wiley, New York,
1964. 797 pp. Illus. $17.50.

Collision Theory. Marvin L. Gold-

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Remarkable Nalgene®
BEAKERS and
BOTTLES made of
TEFLON* FEP

 

 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 

0 NALGENE
BEAKERS, Griffin
low form—in 30,
50, 100, 150,
250, 400, 600
and 1000 ml sizes
from $2.60

 

o NALGENE
BOTTLES, Boston
rounds—4, 8, 16
and 32 02., com-
plete with. fonro-
carbon screw
closures

from $4.50

 

Nalge manufactures them
at production-rug prices.

Nalgene labware made of TEFLON
FEP is corrosion-proof and virtually
indestructible. Once available only
at fantastic custom prices, Nalge
brings you these TEFLON FEP beakers
and bottles at prices any laboratory
can afford.

o Safe—rugged, shatterproof.

a Can be sterilized repeatedly by any
method, without damage.

o Withstand temperatures from
—270°C. to +205°C.

0‘ Unaffected by all known chemicals
except fluorine at elevated tem-
peratures, molten alkali metals
and certain complex halogenated
compounds.

0 For cryogenic experiments or
high-temperatu re applications over
extended periods.

oEasy to clean—surface is non-
porous, adhesion-resistant, and
transparent.

See your lab supply dealer, or write
Dept. 2I07, The NaIge Co., Inc.l
75 Panorama Creek Drive, Roches-
ter, New York 14625.

*Du Pont registered trademark

 

@NALGENE

LABWARE

Leader in quality plastic labware since 1949

 

 

 

Visit our Booth 26 of the 6th Innt. ConqresS
of Biochemistry, July 27-31, New York Hilton

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

TIME YOUR TESTS
IN SPLIT-SECONDS!

6%

ALL PURPOSE
LABORATORY
TIMERS

MODELS AT
$25.00 to $31.00

. I .v ”If”;
r

t

i

I

2

, i

E

'5

You can set the large 8” dial for any desired time period within
an unusually wide range of 3600 possible settings, (ie., 1 sec.
to 60 min., 1 min. to 60 hrs., etc.). At end of preset interval,
alarm sounds and external load is automatically switched on or

oft.

GRA-LAB MICRO TIMERS, Electric Stop Clocks, are
available in 1/10 sec. or 1/1000 min. graduations
for split-second measurements of elapsed time in
laboratory or production operations. Price $39.50

WRITE FOR COMPLETE CATALOG!

IIIMOO-ORIIY OOMPAIIY

 

203 E. Sixth St.
DAYTON 2, OHIQ

 

for maximum fractionation . . .

THE SERIES 500
An improved and
simpliﬁed design. .
° Compact and mov- .
able
0 Expandable
100 to 500 tubes
' Reliable

. Proven ability—in
laboratories all
over the world

- Convenience—de-
signed and engi-
neered in labora-
tories by working
scientists

 

The Countercurrent fractionator has proven invaluable
in such diverse research as fatty acids, polymers, inor-
ganics, barbiturates, aliphatics, steroids, virus, natural prod-
ucts, aromatics, antibiotics, amino compounds, RNA. Write
for our bibliography of recent work using this appa-
ratus.

TELEPHONE
Area Code 215—382-2204

Circle Reader Service
Card for Data Sheets

 

 

 

TISSUE CULTURE

ROLLORDRUM

 

 

 

For Bottles and Eggs

 

 

 

 

 

Used as Carrying Tray For Tumble-Tube Technio Designed for Incubator Use

 

 

 

APPLICATIONS
Growth of tissues and
viruses.

Used in cytotoxicity assays.
Growth of virus in chick
embryonic tissue.
Hormone production by
selected tissues.

Extraction and dialysis of
blood samples for analySIs.

UNCONDITIONAL
1-YEAR WARRANTY

’___—

  
   
  

  

    

E WRITE FOR
(5“ NEW BRUNSWICK SCIENTIFIC ca, INC. c AT ALOG
‘4' PRECISION LABORATORY APPARATUS TcS/7-lo4

The NBS Rollordrum is a rugged instrument
for growing tissue cultures by the roller tube
method. A choice of operating speeds IS otiered
in several, continuous-duty models: 1/5 rpm,
1 rpm, and 20-60 rpm.

Test tubes, eggs, and centrifuge bottles ofcvari-
ous sizes can be accommodated on 51x inter-
changeable drums. A tumble-tube turntable is
also available for rotatlng tubes over their

vertical axes.

The heavy-duty drive mechanism is quiet in op-
eration, achieving smooth, uniform rotary mo-
tion during prolonged investigatlons. Powered

a heavy-duty, totally enclosed ball-bearing

motor, the apparatus glves many years of con-
tinuous service under incubatlon temperatures.

P.O. BOX 606, NEW BRUNSWICK. NEW JERSEY
209

10 JULY 1964

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 
  

 

 

 

 

«45/ Every Laboratory Ne

{1333512221

    
 
 
  
  
 

*3

Don’t call the engineer, carpenter or maintenance man
when you have to remove a screw, cut a piece of wire,
drill a hole or tighten a nut! The HANDI-LAB kit is
specially designed for the laboratory, with all the tools
necessary to adiust, repair and set up apparatus and
equipment. Folded kit measures 9” x 4”—when open, 22"
x 11", and can be hung on wall for easy accessibility.
The money you save on maintenance work will pay its

price many times over!

555

808 BROADWAY
NEW YORK, N.Y. |0003

  

PLUS a GILHOOLIE!

"STRONG-ARM MAN FOR THE LAB"

No matter how stubborn or stuck, GILHOOLIE opens
and re-seals every iar, can and bottle cap—screw-
top, twist-top, lift-top, pry-oﬁ cover. Terriﬁc power-
grip iaws open from 5/16” to 3V2”.

STANDARD SCIENTIFIC

SUPPLY CORP.

601 RODIER DRIVE
GLENDALE

 
 
 

eds The New STANDAEB

“HANDI-LAB”
TOOL KIT

Contains 24 Units

8” insulated side-cutting
pliers

7” needle-nose pliers

Combination ratchet

screw-driver an
drill handle

Shock-proof screw-driver
handle

3 assorted screw-driver

:=': bits

3? 2 recessed screw-driver

' bits (#1 s. 2)

6 socket screw wrenches,

~ assorted sizes

‘ 4 twist drills! assorted

snzes

6” adiustable-end
wrench

Drill brace with chuck

Offset screw-driver

Ruler and equivalent

scale
Heavy vinyl roll-up case

ORDER THIS SPECIAL
COMBINATION TODAY!

Cat. #S-99'II6A,
“Handi-Lab” TOOL KIT
& GILHOOLIE

.145,

 

 

 

 

3|2 HARBOR WAY
SOUTH SAN FRANCISCO, CALIF.

CALIF. 9l20l

   

 
   

 

Gentlemen:

    
  
  
 
 
   
 

TYPIT ® is - perfect way to

11, foreign or
numerical symbEE —- easy as W.
Over 1,000 symbﬁ

DI 2' >1 l?! E‘—

like /-1. a. 0.

choose from. A

tar-r + TYPIT ® is

 

 

....

  

__.__—————
_._._—.
——

—

TY E ANY SYMBOL
perfectly in 4 seconds
write today for free CGI’OIOg

TYPIT ® manufactured by

mechanical enterprises. inc.
3127 SL Colvin Street, Alexandria, Va.

Gentlemen:
Send: Ci Catalog Cl Representative

 

 

 

 

Name Title
Company
Address
City !_ Zone—State___
- II - - - - - - -
210

 

 

 

 

i Daiac LABORATORIES

   

Avez-vous besoin de réactifs
pour recherches medicales of
tests bio-chimiques?

Adressez-vous donc oux laboratories
Doiac (Daioc laboratories) de Boro
dem

Nous ofirons un choix de plus de
300 reactifs pour les recherches et les
tests les plus divers—des substrots
pour reactions enzymatiques, des
réoctiis lluorescents, des sels de té-
trozole et une ample voriété de colo-
rants biologiques, d'ocides ominés,
de réoctils pour analyses et de néces-
soires d'échontillons et de réactifs.

De nouveaux produits s'oioutent
constomment a lo liste o la suite des
recherches que Daioc mene a titre in-
dependent et des progres de la bio-
chimie.

Nous nous lerons un ploisir, sur
votre demonde. de vous fournir des
preparations spéciales conformes o
vos spéciiicotions.

Veuillez demander un exemplaire du
nouveau Catalogue Daiac qui vous sera
envoys a titre entiérement garcieux 5-74.

 

THE Fall/ell CHEMICAL COMPANY

5000 lANGDON STREET ' PO BOX 9522
PHILADELPHIA 24, P A

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

berger and Kenneth M. Watson. Wiley,
New York, 1964. 929 pp. Illus.

Colored Symmetry. A series of publi-
cations from the Institute of Crystallog-
raphy, Academy of Sciences of the
U.S.S.R., 1951—1958. A. V. Shubnikov,
N. V. Belov, and others. Translated from
the Russian editions by Jack Itzkoﬂ' and
Jack Gollob. William T. Holser, Ed. Per-
gamon, London; Macmillan, New York,
1964. 289 pp. Illus. $9.75.

Concepts of Real Analysis. Charles A.
Hayes, Jr. Wiley, New York, 1964. 202
pp. Illus. $6.50.

Concise Inorganic Chemistry. J. D,
Lee. Van Nostrand, Princeton, N.J., 1964.
260 pp. Illus. $8.50.

Cryogenics. Michael McClintock. Rein-
hold, New York; Chapman and Hall,
London, 1964. 282 pp. Illus. $10.75.

The Cyanine Dyes and Related Com-
pounds. Frances M. Hamer. Interscience
(Wiley), New York, 1964. 724 pp. Illus.
$45.

Descriptive Physical Oceanography.
An introduction. George L. Pickard. Per—
gamon, London; Macmillan, New York,
1964. 207 pp. Illus. $4.50.

The Development of Weak Interaction
Theory. P. K. Kabir, Ed. Gordon and
Breach, New York, 1963. 312 pp. Illus.
$4.95

Developments in Applied Spectros-
copy. Vol. 3. Proceedings, 14th Annual
Mid-America Spectroscopy Symposium
(Chicago, 111.), May 1963. J. E. Forrette
and E. Lanterman, Eds. Plenum Press,
New York, 1964. 419 pp. Illus. $17.50.

Differential Equations with Applica-
tions. Herman Betz, Paul B. Burcham,
and George M. Ewing. Harper and Row
New York, ed. 2, 1964. 358 pp. Illus.
$7.50.

Digital Storage Systems. William Ren-
wick. Wiley, New York, 1964. 222 pp.
Illus. $8.50.

Elastic Liquids. An introductory vector
treatment of ﬁnite-strain polymer rheol-
ogy. A. S. Lodge. Academic Press, New
York, 1964. 401 pp. Illus. $12.

Electrical Circuits with Variable Pa-
rameters, Including Pulsed-Control Sys-
tems. V. A. Taft. Translated from the
Russian edition (Moscow, 1960) by F.
Immirzi. R. C. Glass, Ed. Pergamon,
London; Macmillan, New York, 1964.
121 pp. Illus. $7.50.

Elements of Compressible Flow. F.
Cheers. Wiley, New York, 1963. 174 pp.
Illus. $6.

Elements of the Theory of Gases. Sid-
ney Golden. Addison-Wesley, Reading,
Mass, 1964. 160 pp. Illus. $5.

Essentials of Algebra and Trigonom-
etry. Frederick H. Young. Addison-
Wesley, Reading, Mass, 1964. 158 pp.
Illus. $5.

Expected Values of Discrete Random
Variables and Elementary Statistics. Allen
L. Edwards. Wiley, New York, 1964.
158 pp. Illus. Paper, $3.95; cloth, $5.95.

Extrusion of Plastics. E. G. Fisher-
Iliﬁe, London; Interscience (WiICY), New
York. ed 2, 1964. 271 pp. Illus. $12.

The Feynman Lectures on Physics. vol.
2, The Electromagnetic Field. Richard P.
Feynman, Robert B. Leighton, and Mat-
thew Sands. Addison-Wesley, Reading,
Mass-s 1964. Unpaged. Illus. $3-75-

SCIENCE, VOL. 145

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




   

 

 

DURRUM - . '
DIAL-A~PUM

 

HAHHHAHHHLA
SEPARATE PUMP

12 INDIVIDUAL CHANNELS
. . .12 INDEPENDENT AD~
JUSTMENTS. Like getting 12
pumps for the price of one.
New Durrum 12 AP liquid
pump lets you change flow
rates of 12 individual chan-
nels, even during operation,
without disturbing other chan-
nels. Rugged yet precisely
built, to provide any flow rate
from less thaw. 1 ml per hour
to more than 4 liters pel‘
hourperchanneh

Typical of the Durrum
pump's many uses:

0 for continuous fermentation
or bioassay studies . .. meters
Up to 12 variables into one or
more microbiological systems

0 for gradient chromatogra-
phy or feeding multiple chro-
matography columns

0 a proportioning pump for
automated wet chemistry
analysis or reagent mixing
and blending

' a perfusion pump for physi-
Ology and pharmacology
studies

WRITE FOR APPLICATIONS
DATA. Two new bulletins,
110-4 and 110—63, tell how
and where you can use the
Durrum pump. Write to: Dur-
I'Um Instrument Corporation,
925 East Meadow Drive, Palo
Alto, California 94303.

DURRUM

10 JULY 1964

 

Fluvial Processes in Geomorphology.
Luna B. Leopold, M. Gordon Wolman,
and John P. Miller. Freeman, San Fran-
c1sco, Calif., 1964. 536 pp. Illus. $10.

Free Radical Reactions in Preparative
Organic Chemistry. George Sosnovsky.
lg/Igcmillan, New York, 1964. 456 pp. Illus.

Frequency Filter Methods. Torbern
Laurent. Wiley, New York; Almqvist and
Wiksell, Stockholm, 1964. 320 pp. Illus.
$17.50.

Frequency of Self-Oscillations. Janusz
Groszkowski. Pergamon, London; Mac-
giillan, New York, 1964. 542 pp. Illus.

15.

The Gas-Phase Oxidation of Hydrocar-
bons. V. Ya. Shtern. Translated from the
Russian edition (Moscow, 1960) by M. F.
Mullins. B. P Mullins, Ed. Pergamon,
London; Macmillan, New York, 1964.
720 pp. Illus. $28.50.

Gun Drilling and Trepanning. A prac-
tical and intensive treatment of the tools,
machines, processes, and related ele-
ments in the precision machining of deep
holes. Prepared under the supervision of
the American Soc. of Tool and Manu-
facturing Engineers. Prentice-Hall, Engle-
wood Cliffs, N.J., 1964. 160 pp. Illus.
$6.95.

Handbook of Preparative Inorganic
Chemistry. vol. 1. George Brauer, Ed.
Translated from the German edition
(Stuttgart. 1960) by Scripta Technica.
Reed F. Riley. Ed. Academic Press, New
York, ed. 2, 1963. 1030 pp. Illus. $36.

High Speed Testing. vol 4. A sym-
posium (Boston, Mass), May 1963. A1-
bert G. H. Dietz and Frederick R. Eirich,
Eds. Interscience (Wiley), New York. 314
pp. Illus. Paper. $12.80.

High-Velocity Forming of Metals. A
concise yet intensive treatment of the
mechanics, principleS, equipment, and
methods employed in the forming 0f
metals by the explosive, electro—hydraulic,
magnetic-pulse, and pneumatic—mechanl-

‘ cal processes. Prepared under the su-
pervision of the American Soc. of. Tool
3 and Manufacturing Engineers. Prentlce-

Hall. Englewood Cliffs, N.J., 1964. 202

: pp. Illus. $7.50.

Information Theory. An introduction

. for scientists and engineers. Gordon Rais-

beck. M.l.T. Press, Cambridge, Mass,

1964. 117 pp. Illus. $4.
An Introduction to Crystallography.

i F. C. Phillips. Wiley, New York, ed. 3,

I964. 350 pp. Illus. $6. .
Introduction to Field Theory and DIS-

persion Relations. R. Hagedorn. Per-

gamon. London; Macmillan, New York,

I964. 135 pp. Illus. $5. . .
An Introduction to Industrial Radiol-

I ogy. J. C. Rockley. Butterworth, London,

. Meserve

I964. 247 pp. Illus. $10.75. .

Introduction to Mathematics. Bruce E.
and Max A. Sobel. Prentlce—Hall,
Englewood Cliffs, N..I., 1964. 302 pp.
Illus. $5.95.

An Introduction to
H. Messel and S. T. But
tin‘s Press, New York,
[11115. $5.

Introduction to P1 .
A. Uman. McGraw—H1ll, New
240 pp. Illus. $10.

Introduction to the

Modern Physics.
ler, Eds. St. Mar-
1964. 273 pp.

21 Physics. Martin
asm York, 1964.

Logical Design of

 

Portable
Cool . . .

SCIENTIST’S LIGHT BOX

 

TILTS EASILY
FOR TABLE-TOP
USE

Model 12-] 2D-2X for charts
curves, spectra, X-ray film
81/2" x 11” ........... $35.50
Model I2-20E-2X for double

 

 

 

size sheets 11” x 18”. .$60.00

 

FITS STANDARD
DESK DRAWER FOR
STORAGE OR USE

Keep GLOW BOX in your
desk drawer immediately
available whenever you wish
to examine, compare, or
trace. It’s so convenient!

STANDS
UPRIGHT FOR
DEMONSTRATIONS

The uniform, diffuse light
focuses attention on displays
of samples for lectures,
demonstrations, etc.

 

 

 

 

SEND CARD FOR LITERATURE

INSTRUMENTS for
RESEARCH and
INDUSTRY
CHELTENHAM, PA.

 




 

 

LABORATORY

Fl 11101

 

Coors can help you with laboratory filtration
by providing you with a complete range of
filtration equipment in many sizes and styles,
all immediately available through your local
laboratory supply dealer. Coors filters come
in 15 styles, with a total of 74 sizes matched
to meet your exacting requirements. Coors
filtering devices include the #220 and #221
Filter cones; #270, #290, #291, #300, Gooch
crucibles; #765, #767, #769 Porous Bottom
crucibles; #490 fixed plate Buchner tunnels;
#491 loose plate Buchner funnels. Special
Buchner funnels include. the double-wall
#495, two-piece.#496 and table type #497
and #498; #510.Hirsclh'fun'nel;l #511 Conical
funnel; #775 Ernich micro-filtersti‘eks and
various porous cups, plates and cylinders.
Write for Bulletin 'No. 498, showing filters.

”ISIST THAT YOUR LABORATORY PORCELAIN
ARE CARRY THIS MARK 0F DEPENDABILITY

COORS-
lI.S.A.

coons PORCELAIN COMPANY, GOLDEN. COLORADO
212

 

Switching Systems. H. C. To.rng Addison-
Wesley, Reading, Mass., 1964. 298 pp.
Illus. $9.75.

An Introduction to the Theory of the
Formation of Frozen Rocks. I. A. Tyu-
tyunov Translated from the Russian edi-
tion by J. O. H. Muhlhaus. Pergamon,
London; Macmillan, New York, 1964.
108 pp. Illus. $7. 50.

Invariant Imbedding and Time-Depend-
ent Transport Processes. R. E. Bellman,
H. H. Kagiwada, R. E. Kalaba, and M. C.
Prestrud. Elsevier, New York, 1964. 270
pp. Illus. $7. 50

A Laboratory Course in General Chem-
istry. Wendell M. Latimer and RichaId
E. Powell. Macmillan, New York, 1964.
144 pp. Illus. Paper, $2.95.

Limits and Continuity. William K.
Smith. Macmillan, New York, 1964. 142
pp. Illus. Paper, $3.

Low Temperature Physics. Proceedings,
8th International Conference (London),

September 1962. R. 0. Davies, Ed.
Butterworth, Washington, D.C., 1963. 465
pp. Illus. $39.

Marine Geology of the Paciﬁc. H. W.
Menard. McGraw-Hill, New York, 1964.
285 pp. Illus. $12.50.

Materials and Fuels for High-Tempera-
ture Nuclear Energy Applications. Pro-
ceedings, National Topical Meeting,
American Nuclear Society (San Diego,
Calif), April 1962. M. T. Simnad and
L. R. Zumwalt, Eds. MIT. Press, Cam-
bridge, Mass., 1964. 423 pp. Illus. $12.

The Mathematical Principles of Nat-
ural PhiIOSOphy. Isaac Newton. Introduc-
tion by Alfred del 'Vecchio. Philosophical
Library, New York, 1964. 447 pp. Illus.
$10.

Matrix Methods in Optical Instrument
Design. Willem Brouwer. Benjamin, New
York, 1964. 302 pp. Illus. Paper, $5.95;
cloth, $9.

The Mechanics of Turbulence Proceed-
ings (in English) of the symposium
sponsored by the Centre National de la
Recherche Scientiﬁque (Marseilles,
France), August—September 1961. Gor—
don and Breach, New York, 1964. 460 pp.
Illus. $19.50.

Modern Basic Mathematics. Hobart C.
Carter. Appleton—Century-Crofts, New
York, 1964./478 pp. Illus. $6.50.

Modern Inorganic Pharmaceutical
Chemistry. Clarence A. Discher. Wiley,
New York, 1964. 648 pp. Illus. $12.

Nonlinear Integral Equations. Proceed-
ings of an advanced seminar conducted
by the Mathematics Research Center, US.
Army (Madison, Wis.), April 1963. P. M.
Anselone, Ed. Univ. of Wisconsin Press,

Madison, 1964. 390 pp. Illus. $6.50.
Nonlinear-Magnetic Control Devices.
Basic principles, characteristics, and ap-

plications. William A. Geyger. McGraw—
Hill, New York, 1964. 420 pp. Illus.
$12.50.

Nuclear Interactions.
detti. Wiley, New York,
Illus. $16.

Nuclear Orientation. M. E. Rose, Ed.
Gordon and Breach, New York, 1963.
335 pp. Illus. $4.95.

Nuclear Power Systems. An introductory
text. C. D. Gregg King. Macmillan, New
York, London, 1964. 496 pp. Illus. $13.

Organic Functional Group Analysis: By

Sergio DeBene-
1964. 660 pp.

 

 

     

THERMIJLYNE
lABORATURY APPARATUS

”Lab accepted standard of quality”

SCIENTIFICALLY ENGINEERED
CAREFULLY MANUFACTURED
PROPERLY PRICED

 

HANDY UTILITY SIZE
ELECTRIC LABORATORY
FURNACES

TYPE 1300

Stepless input control allows infinitely
variable choice of operating temper-

atures from 350° F to maximum.

Maximum operating temperatures
1650° 1900° F

intermittent.

F continuous,

Automatic compensation for line
voltages gives uniform operating

temperatures.

0 I, ”
Chamber size 4" x 3% x 4%

PRICE $80.00
TYPE T400
Same features as above
Chamber size: 47/8" x 4%" x 6”
PRICE $98.50

OTHER SIZES and types to
meet most needs.

Write, wire, or phone for complete
information and name of nearest
dealer.

PHONE: Area code 319/583-3501

THERMULYNE BURPURAHUN

Dept. 568 2555 Kerper Blvd. Dubuque, IOWG
SCIENCE, VOL. 145

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

, .
”mvm“

 

[1

Klett Summerson

Photoelectric Colorimeter
HIGH VOLTAGE

ELECTROPHORESIS ‘
We EQU I PM EN tirrztrtzzrxiaz‘:

 
  

n
KLETT COLONY MARKER and TALLY

This instrument takes
the drudgery and er—
ror out of the count-
ing of bacterial colo—
nies.

WRITE FOR [J New Full-Line Catalog
[3 Bibliography V
I] Reprints of Scientific Papers

 

K/F/Lf MANUFACTURING co. INC, Savant Instruments, Inc.

179 East 87th Street. New York. 28, N.Y. 221PARKAVENUE/HICKSVILLE, L, 1., NEW YORK

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

     
   
   
   
   
   
 
 
 
 
  
 
        
            
    
 

NOW-theﬁine cagelthat houses mice, hamsters
rats or guinea pigs...

.. ' available in 3 different materials

General-purpose Econo-Cage designed for the laboratory
with varying requirements in animal experimentation.
Chemical-resistant, unaffected by most disinfectants, ani-
mal wastes. True economy, highest efﬁciency.

11" x 81/2 " x 6" deep; 90 sq. in. ﬂoor area.

 

 
   
     

 

Econo—Cage #17 POLYCARBOI ’ :..
Clear. Unusually high impact strength. With a
tures of 280-290°F. Optical and thermal preps
(Shown above with.lid 126) .-

 
 

up :120. LID #IZBP

' - l. Strai ht Single piece combination lid
ﬁipecs pigtegnstse/elsﬂ centgers and V-shaped feeder of 3 x a
with integral V-shaped feeder; ga | v a n I z e d Wll re an e st
separate integral water bottle mounted to po ycar ona e

. o ; plastic frame. Ventage area,
?e%l§e$re;;ancifygg5a Lela i8n5 A) 65%, feeder capacrty, 35 cu. m.

~ Plastic products for animal care and biomedical research
imam” #1 s POLYPROPYLENﬁ ----------
Ensiucent, smooth-gioss sur-

egSteam steriti’zable. Heat .
ion £3988 215A238°E

 

 
 

C 213
10 JULY 1964

 

 

 

 




 

 

bmplete low cost system
ffor taking motion pictures

of exceptional quality

through the microscope

 

 

Sage Series 300 shown with
Leitz Orthqux Microscope: $3250
(Not including microscope).
Incubator optional at extra cost.

 

 

 

 

 

The Sage Series 300 Time Lapse Apparatus
provides all the features necessary for
getting excellent motion pictures at
high magniﬁcations. The instrument
includes a unique desk-mounted vi-
bration-isolation system, camera and
drive assembly with wide choice of
framing rates, viewing eyepiece for
the microscope, variable time expo-
sure control for continuous light pho-
tography, and trigger for ﬂash syn-
chronization.

Also from Sage, the completely inte-
grated Series 100 Time Lapse Cine-
photomicrographic Apparatus in-
cludes a dual light source, steady
source for viewing and xenon ﬂash
for photography, built-in controls,
and other features that make it the
most versatile time lapse instrument
available.

For complete information,
write or telephone.

SAGE INSTRUMENTS, INC.
3

2 SPRING ST., WHITE PLAINS, N.Y.
914 WH 9-4121
Represented by leading microscope dealers.

214

 

 

 

Micro- and Semimicro Methods. Nich—
olas D. Cheronis and T. S. Ma. Inter-
science (Wiley), New York, 1964. 722
pp. Illus. $25. .

Organolead Chemistry. A concise rev1ew,
with special reference to the literature
covering the period January 1953 to July
1963. L. C. Willemsen. Prepared for the
International Lead Zinc Research Organ-
ization (New York) by Organische Chem—
ische Institut, Utrecht, Netherlands, 1964.
111 pp. Free.

PCT, Spin and Statistics, and All
That. R. F. Streater and A. S. Wightman.
Benjamin, New York, 1964. 191 pp. Illus.
Paper, $4.95; cloth, $9.

Physics of Atomic Collisions. J. B.
Hasted. Butterworth, Washington, DC,
1964. 546 pp. Illus. $26.

Principles of Chemistry. Joel H. Hilde-
brand and Richard E. Powell. Macmillan,
New York, London, ed. 7, 1964. 413 pp.
Illus. $7.50.

The Principles of: Mathematics. Bert-
rand Russell. Norton, New York, ed. 2,
1964. 574 pp. Paper, $2.95.

Progress in Reaction Kinetics. vol. 2.
G. Porter, Ed. Pergamon, London; Mac-
millan, New York, 1964. 399 pp. Illus.
$15. Eight papers: “The rate constants
of halogen atom reactions,” G. C. Fettis
and J. H. Knox; “Mercury photosensitized
reactions,” R. J. Cvetanovié; “The reac-
tions of methylene and some simple car-
benes,” H. M. Frey; “The kinetics of
cis-trans isomerizations,” R. B. Cundall;
“The kinetics of propagation of anionic
polymerization and co-polymerization,”
M. Szwarc and J. Smid; “Rate constants
of protolytic reactions in aqueous solu-
tion,” M. Eigen, W. Kruse, G. Maass,
and L. De Maeyer; “The rates of reaction
of some haem compounds,” Q. H. Gib-
son; and “Kinetic treatment of consecu-
tive processes,” R. M. Noyes.

Progress in Solid State Chemistry. vol. 1.
H. Reiss, Ed. Pergamon, London; Mac—
millan, New York, 1964. 544 pp. Illus.
$17.50. Eleven papers: “The thermal ex-
pansion of ceramic crystals,” H. P. Kirch-
ner; “Lattice energies and related topics,”
M. F. C. Ladd and W. H. Lee; “Phases
with the nickel arsenide and closely-
related structures,” A. Kjekshus and W.
B. Pearson; “Lattice imperfections and
the thermal conductivity of solids,” D.
Greig; “The relationship of photolumi-
nescence and electroluminescence to
structure,” D. W. G. Ballentyne; “Ferri-
electricity in crystals,” C. F. Pulvari;
“Alloy semiconductors,” J. C. Woolley;
“Physico-chemical aspects of organic semi-
conductors,” H. A. Pohl; “X-ray diffrac-
tion studies of crystal perfection,” L. V.
Azaroff; “Applications of nuclear quadru-
pole resonance,” G. A. Jeffrey and T.
Sakurai; and “Use of infrared and raman
spectroscopy in the study of organo-
metallic compounds,” D. K. Huggins and
H. D. Kaesz.

Pyrazolones, Pyrazolidones, and Deriv-
atives. Richard H. Wiley and Paul Wiley.
Interscience (Wiley), New York, 1964.
555 pp. Illus. $26.

Quaternary Geologic History of the
Coastal Plain of Rio Grande do Sul,
Brazil. Patrick J. V. Delaney. Louisiana
State Univ. Press. Baton Rouge, 1963.
75 pp. Illus. Paper, $2.50.

 

new

FALCON PLASTIC
" PIPET

RIGID . STERILE
DISPOSABLE

 

 

send
samples

 

 

STERlLE . DISPOSABLE ‘ " ‘

 

méiéETFTMLYj

 

.1
2.. .non-wettahle...

3 minimizes meniscus,
, .i: reducesdrainage

' “hold-back” errors
- chemically clean

- biologically clean
~crystal clear

- cotton plugged

- sharp graduations

. V1.1 1‘13‘} LII-4 a 14.4. 1
rr r

I

 

 

 

 

i .I, ‘ l 'I x K 1:1 I I; 3 '-
¥;Isri‘[ttttl,r
"'3>~:;;_.:":.:‘:‘: ::11 :_ :,.:.:_;:: ‘

 

PIPET

3 graduation markings

1 ml x0.1

1 ml x0.0l
1.1ml(O.5,1.0,1.1
graduations)

 

 

 
 
 

convenient use
packages

100 (individually
wrapped) in dispensing
box, or 25 in “poly"
bag and other package
forms. Available
through your local dis-
tributor.

EFALCON PLASTICS
DIVISION OF

B-D LABORATORIES, Inc., RUTHERFORD, NEW JERSEY

164
8-!) AND FALCON ARE TRADEMARKS ‘2

 

 

STERILE ' DISPOSABLE V

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

SCIENCE, VOL. 145

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

     
    
    
   
   
   
     
     
     
     
   
   
   
 
 
  
  
   
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
       
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
   
 
   
  
  
  
  
  
 
 

  
 
 

 

row. . .
ll PRACTICAL lASER!

Perkin-Elmer's Model 5200 is so compact
. . . so rugged . . . so simple to use, that it
makes practical almost any application
requiring the unique characteristics of C1

 

continuous laser beam . . . even on pro—
‘duction equipment.

This stable, noise free source of bright
coherent light is already replacing
eXpensive and hard-to-Use optical
alignment and measuring systems.
Furthermore, it is extending the use of
precise alignment and measuring systems
to applications previously considered
impractical.

For applications requiring a lot of light
in a small diameter beam, the brightness
of the Model 5200 is thousands of times
greater than the most intense arc lamps.

When precise dimensions are important,
the coherent nature of laser light...to a
degree never before possible...extends
”18 use of interferometry to entirely
new applications.

Are you considering using a laser?

To obtain detailed information on the
Model 5200 laser, contact Electra-Optical
PrOduct Marketing, Perkin-Elmer Cor-
POration,910 Danbury Road, Norwalk,
COnnecticut. Or phone 203-847-0411.

PERKIN—ELMEH
10 JULY 1964

  
 

 

Recent Geomorphic History of the
Pontchartrain Basin. Roger T. Saucier.
Lotuisiana State Univ. Press, Baton
Rouge,.1963. 128 pp. Illus. Paper, $3,

Rectiﬁed Lunar Atlas. Suppl. No. 2,
Ph0t0graphic Lunar Atlas. E. A. Whit-
aker, G- P- KUiDCI‘, W. K. Hartmann,
and L. H. Spradley. Univ. of Arizona
Press, TUCSON, 1963. Unpaged. Illus.
Plates. $35.

La Retention et la Migration des Ions
Radioactifs dans les Sols. An interna-
tional colloquium (Saclay, France), Oc-
tober 1962. Centre d’Etudes Nucleaires
de Saclay, Gif—sur-Yvette; Presses Uni-
versitaires de France, Paris, 1963. 296
pp. Illus.

Rheo-optics of Polymers. A symposium
(Amherst, Mass), August 1963, held
under the auspices of the Polymer Re-
search lnstitute. Interscience (Wiley),
New York, 1964. 200 pp. Illus. Paper, $8.

Several Complex Variables. Local the-
ory. M. Hervé. Published for the Tata
Institute of Fundamental Research (Bom-
bay. lndia), by Oxford Univ. Press, New
York. 1963. 142 pp. Illus. Paper, $4.

Signal Detection and Recognition by
Human Observers. Contemporary read-
ings. John A. Swets, Ed. Wiley, New
York. 1964. 714 pp. Illus. $17.50.

Solubilities of Inorganic and Organic
Compounds. vol. 2. pt. 1, Ternary Sys-
tems. H. Stephen and T. Stephen, Eds.
Pergamon, London; Macmillan, New
York, 1964. 944 pp. $28.50.

Space Physics and Radio Astronomy.
H. Messel and S. T. Butler, Eds. St.
Martin’s Press, New York, 1964. 174 pp.
Illus. $4.25.

Statistical Mechanics of Charged Par-
ticles. R. Balescu. Interscience (Wiley),
New York, 1963. 491 pp. Illus. $15.

The Structure of Atmospheric Turbu-
lence. John L. Lumley and Hans A.
Panofsky. Interscience (Wiley), New
York. 1964. 251 pp. Illus. $9.50

Tables of Spectrophotometric Absorp-
tion Data of Compounds Used for the
Colorimetric Determination of Elements.
Prepared by the Commission on Spectro-
chemical and other Optical Procedures
for Analysis. Butterworth, Washington,
DC, 1963. 642 pp. Illus. $25.

Theory and Application of the z-Trans-
form Method. E. I. Jury. Wiley, New
York, 1964. 344 pp. Illus. $11.50.

Theory and Methods of Nuclear Reac-
tor Calculations. G. I. Marchuk. Trans-
lated from the. Russian edition (Moscow,
1962). Consultants Bureau, New York,
1964. 207 pp. Illus. Paper, $40. .

The Theory of Recycle Processes. in
Chemical Engineering. M. F. Nagrev.
Translated from the Russian ed1t10n
(Moscow, 1958) by R. Hardbottle. R. M.
Nedderman, Ed. Pergamon, London; Mac-
millan, New York, 1964. 294 pp. Illus.
$1USSR. Direct Current Research. Re.-
ports of the Leningrad Dlrect Current
Research Institute. Translated from the
Russian edition (Moscow, 1957) by LOUIS
Anderson Fenn. Pergamon, London; Mac-
millan, New York, 1964. (295 pp- 111118-
$1The Universe and Its Origin- H; Messel
and S. T. Butler, Eds. St. Martins Press,
New York, 1964. 147 pp. Illus. $3.75-

 

      
    
       
     
   
   
   
   
     
     
   
     

” NIQUE

"~
u»

\"' v '5" |

"‘II,~' “‘u.

-‘ ‘.' .mi '-...' _ _
Mam-g, . . _

“Legs. .‘l -..,:'

.1“, _

,Ii'CHROMATOGRAPH

_
.i‘ v .

2'.
.

6:.

See
Bulletin
TLC-2

PHDTUVU LT

CORPORATION
1115 BROADWAY 0 NEW YORK 10. N.Y.,

215

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




  
  
 

 

“:and using the EC 470 Vertical Gel Electrophoresis Apparatus)

 

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

 

Bro

 

    

 

 

 

Eight normal serum samples on a single acrylamide gel— Reproducible and lntercomparable. Ji

 

    
   
  
   
   
   
  
   
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

WORKING TIME : IO MINUTES

Whether you are lazy or not, you will enjoy saving up. to two
hours daily conducting electrophoresis research. Us1ng the
EC 470 Apparatus, here is how it is done:

1. Cell locks itself together—no further manipulation

2. Pour in single gel solution—no further manipulation

3. Apply samples directly—no further manipulation
After running for One hour, remove gel slab.

4. Stain together, destain together, and evaluate together.

CIRCLE READER SERVICE CARD FOR DATA SHEETS AND BIBLIOGRAPHY

 

 

  
    
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
          
  

  

versatileunbreakable
MANIFOLD-Y
CONNECTOR

 
  

 
  

ing—even rent sizes!

   

    
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
  
 
 
       
       
       
  

Pioneer Ma Connectors

 

AVAILABLE THROUGH YOUR LABORATORY SUPPLY HOUSE . . .
FOR COMPLETE SPECIFICATIONS AND PRICES ON ALL PIONEER
QUALITY PRODUCTS. REQUEST OUR SIXTEEN PAGE BULLETIN.

@abm

Pioneer Plastics, Inc.
DEPT. S,BOX 8066, JACKSONVILLE, FLORIDA—32211

216

 

 

AAAS

Symposium Volume

SYSTEMS OF UNITS—
NATIONAL AND
INTERNATIONAL ASPECTS

Edited by Carl F. Kayan

A look at the growing problems
in the conflict between interna-
tional usages and our own national
system of units. This volume con-
siders them both subjectively and
objectively in order to alert the
technologist to the clamor, needs,
and proposals to ameliorate the
confusion of measurement. .$6.75
AAAS members discount price, $5.75

Order from

AMERICAN ASSOCIATION FOR THE
ADVANCEMENT OF SCIENCE

Room 103

ISIS Massachusetts Ave., NW
Washington, D. C. 20005

 

 

INDEX TO '

ADVERTISERS
10 July 1964

Ace Glass Inc. .................. 105
Ainsworth, Wm., & Sons, Inc. ...... 107
Air Products and Chemicals Inc. . . . 199
American Edelstaal, Inc. .......... 195
ANS, Inc. ...................... 92
Baird-Atomic, Inc. ............... 94
Bausch & Lomb Inc. ............. 189

Beckman Instruments, Inc., Scientiﬁc
and Process Instruments Div. . 110, ’111

Blickman, S., Inc. ................ 208
Borden Chemical C0. ............. 210
Brush Instruments ............... 86
Chemical Rubber Co. ............ 200
Consolidated Electrodynamics ..... 196
Cooke, Troughton & Simms, Inc. .. 196
Coors Porcelain Co. .............. 212
Denominator Co., Inc. ............ 198
Dimco-Gray C0. ................. 209
Durrum Instrument Corp. ......... 211
E-C Apparatus Corp. ......... 209, 216
Edmund Scientiﬁc Co. ............ 191
Elgeet Optical Co., Inc. ........... 90

Falcon Plastics, Div. of

B-D Laboratories. Inc. ......... 214
Four Continent Book Corp. ........ 194
Gilford Instrument Laboratories, Inc. 195
Glas-Col Apparatus Co. .......... 113
Hacker, William J., & Co., Inc. . . . . 204
Hamilton C0. ................... 95
High Voltage Engineering Corp. . . . . 114
Honeywell Photographic Products,

Denver Div. .................. 200
Instrumentation Specialties Co. . . . 198
Instruments for Research and Industry 211
International Equipment Co. ....... 93
Jarrell-A.shCo 96
Klett Manufacturing Co. ., Inc. ...... 213
LaPine Scientiﬁc Co. ............. 194
London C0. ..................... 102
Maryland Plastics Inc. ............ 213_
Matheson ....................... 203
Mechanical Enterprises, Inc. ...... 210
Millipore Filter Corp. . . . . . . . . . . . . 194
Nalge Co., Inc. .. .. 208
New Brunswick Scientiﬁc Co., Inc. . . 209
Nuclear-Chicago Corp. . . . . . . . . . . . 220
NuclearData,Inc..,.............101
Ohaus Scale Corp. ............... 219
Pennsylvania Fluorocarbon, Inc. . .. 192
Perkin-Elmer Corp. ........... 99, 215
Pharmacia Fine Chemicals Inc. . . . . 97
Phipps & Bird, Inc. .............. 217
Photovolt Corp. ................. 215
Pilot Chemicals, Inc. ............. 196
Pioneer Plastics, Inc. ............ 216
Polaroid Corp. .................. 108
Pyrodyne, Inc. .................. 198
Sage Instuments, Inc. ............ 214
Savant Instruments, Inc. .......... 213
Scientiﬁc Industries Inc. .......... 193
Sigmamotor, Inc. ................ 198
Sorvall, Ivan, Inc. ................ 100
Standard Scientiﬁc Supply Corp. 210
Statham Instruments, Inc. ......... 188
Technical Measurements Corp... .. 116
Technicon Chromatography Corp. .. 91
Texas Instruments Inc. . . . . . . . . . . 205
Tektronix, Inc. 190
Thermolyne Corp. ............... 212
Thermoplastic Processes, Inc. ...... 204
Tracerlab ....................... 191
US Stoneware .................. 188
Varian Associates, Recorder Div. . . . 105
White, S. 5., Industrial Airbrasive . . 197'
Wilmot Castle CO. ............... 87
Yellow Springs Instrument Co., Inc. . 192
Zeiss, Carl, Inc. ................. 206

SCIENCE, VOL. 145

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 
 
 
 
  
  
 

    

Keep your copies of SCIENCE always available
for qurck, easy reference in this attractive, prac-

lllEXl’EIISIIIE

“SCIENCE”
BIN DEBS

 
  
  
 

 

 

PHIPPS & BIRD NEW IMPROVED

tical binder. Simply snap the magazine in or out RESPIRATOR FOR SMALL ANIMALS

in a few seconds—no punching or mutilating.

ll’ opens FLAT—for easy reference and read- The new 70-886 Animal Respirator is designed to produce
ablllfy.‘ Sturcllly constructed, th|s maroon buck- artificial breathing in small animals. This is a single piston,
ram blnder stamped in gold leaf Will make CI positive pressure reciprocating pump, recommended for use

fine addition to your library.

with rats, rabbits, guinea pigs, hamsters, and cats. Here are
some features of this instrument:

St rti w' °

a n9 Ith January 1962! SCIENCE Blnders 0 Wide Rate Range—5 to 100 0 Provision for use in a Closed

hold one three-month volume of SCIENCE. They “mm D” """"*°' 5’5““

now have a 3-inch back and 13 ﬂat fasteners. o 332:;2pnogsly Variable Rate While 0 :fllgzvirssasi.ntroduction and collection

$3.25 eGCh. Four binders, $12.00. 0 Variable Volume—.5 to 80 cc per 0 Constructed of aluminum and
stroke. stainless steel 7” x 7” x 10”.

o Adjustment to Eliminate Dead

For six-month volumes, through December 1961, Ai. space,

SCIENCE binders with 4-inch back and 26 flat
fasteners are available. $3.25 each.

Catalog No. 70-886, Animal Respirator

Add 50¢ for orders outside the U.S. Name of [PIEDEDEQ§ “DERDDO [153%,

°wner' 75¢ 9"er; Year °f 'ssues' 50¢ exm" ~. g Manutacturers 5. Distributors ot Scientific Equipment

SCI E N C E 1515 Massachusetts Ave., NW,
. Washington, D.C.

 

 

k 2/ 6th 8. Byrd Streets —- Richmond, Virginia
20005 j

 

 

 

Personnel
Placement

   
   

 

 

CLASSIFIED: Positions Wanted. 250 per
word, minimum charge 54. Use of Box
Number counts as to additional words.
Payment in advance is required.

COPY for ads must reach SCIENCE 2 weeks
before issue date (Friday of every week).

DISPLAY: Positions Open. Rates listed be-
low—no charge for Box Number. Rates
net. No agency commission allowed for
ads under 4 inches. No cash discount.
Minimum ad: 1 inch. Ads over I inch
_Will be billed to the nearest quarter
inch. Freauency rate will apply only to
repeat of same ad. No copy changes.
POIYment in advance is required except
where satisfactory credit has been es-
tablished. Send copy for display adver-
tismg to SCIENCE, Room 1740, ll West
42 St, New York 36.

Single insertion $65.00 per inch
4 times in 1 year 60.00 per inch

For PROOFS on display ads, CODY mUSi
reach SCIENCE 4 weeks before date of
issue (Friday of every week).

Replies to blind ads should be addressed
as follows:

Box (give number)

SCIENCE

1515 Massachusetts Ave., NW
Washington, D.C. 20005

 

 

g

 

l

 

WROSITIONS WANTED lllllttltllllllllltllllllltt

A Public Information Specialist in bridging gap
etween scientists and nonscientists seeks new
FhallengE; skilled, mature writer-editor-admln-
1S’tratm; press, industrial, federal. institutional
ﬁxperience; distinguished achievement record.
ox 456, SCIENCE. 7/10

10 JULY 1964

 

 

 
 
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

CIVIL SERVICE OF CANADA

AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH SENIOR GENETlClST
Canada Department of Agriculture $10,900 - $12,300
UP To $12,300 Canada Department of Agriculture
OTTAWA

The Research Branch has a number of
vacancies for agricultural scientists in

0 Animal Science 0 Plant Science
0 Soil Science C Entomology
0 Microbiology 0 Food Science A doctorate degree in animal or poultry

0 Chemistry genetics and a number of years’ experi-
ence in research or in the development
and application of breeding programmes
is required.

search.
REFERENCE 64-1350 REFERENCE 64-1350-G

To assist in the formulation and develop-
ment of national breeding policies and
programmes for livestock and poultry.

Applicants must have postgraduate train-
ing and be interested in a career in re-

 

 

 

SCIENTISTS

Food and Drug Directorate
OTTAWA

$7680 to $12,300

To develop methods for the identification, evaluation
and determination of the effectiveness of drugs and

chemical agents. ‘
To conduct original studies in physiology, endocri-
nology, pharmaceutical analysis, formulation, mode of
action and toxicological aspects of drugs.

Applicants should possess a Doctorate degree in phar-
immunochemistry, endocrinology, biochemis-

macology, .
related scrence and demonstrated

try, physiology or
research ability.
REFERENCE 64-l4OI-S

For details regarding the above positions write IMMEDIATELY to the CIVIL SERVICE

COMMISSION OF CANADA, OTTAWA 4, ONTARIO. Please quote reference number as
indicated.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

217

 




 

r

 

.mnmllml POSITIONS NANTEO lllllIllllllllllllllllllll

Academic: M.S. Chemistry, experienced teacher;
desires position in liberal arts or junior college.
Professional references on request. No geo-
graphical limitation. Box 463, SCIENCE. X

 

Fishery Biologist, American, age 40, with
demersal, pelagic and crustacean research back-
ground. Many publications. International com-
mission and foreign technical assistance, teach-
ing and administrative experience. Speaks three
languages, reads others. M.S. Zoology. Available
from second semester 1964 for position anywhere
in world. Box 448, SCIENCE.

 

Ph.D. Pharmacologist, physiology, bacteriology
minors; teaching, research experience. Box 462.
SCIENCE.

 

Vertebratology, Ph.D., 5 years of teaching, re-
search. Seeks position with research possibilities.
Box 461, SCIENCE. X

lllllllllllllllllllllllllllll POSITIONS OPEN lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll

BIOCHEMIST OR PHYSIOLOGIST

To develop a research program pertinent to
the manipulation of the ﬁshery resource to com-
plement others in progress on hormones, ﬁsh
and shellﬁsh diseases, and nutrition.

Appointment will be made in a salary range
$7600 to $11,600, commensurate with qualiﬁca-
tion and experience. Applicants should send
curriculum vitae and two references to Director,
Fisheries Research Board of Canada, Tech-
nological Research Laboratory, P.O. Box 429,
Halifax, Nova Scotia, Canada. 7/10

 

 

Biochemist-Clinical Opening in 165-bed hospital.
Nineteen man group practice clinic. Full-time
pathologist. Near Rochester and Syracuse for
educational advancement. Close to Finger Lakes,
Lake Ontario, and Adirondacks for recreation.
Salary commensurate with education and ex-
perience. Apply:
Administrator
Clifton Springs Hospital and Clinic
Clifton Springs, N.Y.

 

 

CLINICAL INVESTIGATORS, M.D.

World-leading midwestern pharmaceutical
house has immediate openings for medi-
cal investigators on its Clinical Investiga-
tion staﬂ? for the following specialties:

INTERNAL MEDICINE

Board eligibility necessary, Board certiﬁ-
cation desirable. Special interest and/or
training in cardiovascular or renal physi-
ology required.

PHARMACOLOGY

Advanced degree in basic science neces-
sary. Clinical training or Board certiﬁca-
tion desired with emphasis on develop-
ment of methodology and coordination of
experimental drug studies.

Reply with complete résumé including
salary requirements to Box 457, SCIENCE.

An Equal Opportunity Employer

 

 

 

||l||||||llllllllllllllllllllll POSITIONS OPEN llllllllllllllllllllllliilli%

 

 

DEPARTMENT OF BIOLOGY
UNIVERSITY OF SASKATCHEWAN

Assistant Professor of Mycology with interest in
physiology or morphogenesis of fungi—from
September 1964. Teaching and research. $7500
to $9500 for Ph.D. Send curriculum vitae, names
of three referees, to Dr. M. Shaw, Department
of Biology, University of Saskatchewan, Saska-
toon, Sask., Canada.

 

Position for Biologist at the University of
Hawaii, Hilo Campus. Two-year campus with
student enrollment of 359 and 30 faculty.

Salary depends on experience. Ph.D. recent
graduate preferred. Position to start 1 September
1964. Partial teaching load in microbiology.

Please send full record of experience. all
academic transcripts and at least three letters of
recommendation on ﬁrst inquiry. Cost of moving
and transportation tax deductible, but not borne
by University.

Apply to: Beatrice G. Markey. Academic
Chairman, University of Hawaii, Hilo Campus.

llllllllllllllllllllllllllll lllllllllllllllllllllllllllll

 

FELLOWSHIPS

 

Postdoctoral fellowship in biochemistry depart-
ment of large western university. Area of in-
terest is metabolism and synthesis of collagen.
Excellent research facilities in new building.
Résumé to Box 446, SCIENCE. 7/17

The Market Place

DISPLAY: Insertions must be at least I
inch in depth. Weekly invoices will be
sent on a charge account basis—pro-
vided that satisfactory credit is es-

 

 

 

tablished.

Single insertion $65 per inch
4 times in I year 60 per inch
I3 times in I year 50 per inch
26 times in I year 50 per inch

PROOFS: If copy is to be set, and proofs

" submitted for approval, complete copy

and cuts must be received 4 weeks in

advance of issue date (Friday of each

week); complete plates no later than 3
weeks in advance of issue date.

 

 

 

 

llllllllllllllll BOOKS AND MAGAZINES llllllllllllllll

A lit/tors

Your book can be published, promoted, distrib-
uted by a reliable company on a subsidized
basis. Fiction, non-fiction, poetry, scholarly, re-
ligious and even controversial manuscripts wel-
comed. Free Editorial Report. For Free Booklet
write Vantage Press, Dept. SC, I20 W. 3I St.,
New York I, New York.

 

 

 

 

llllllllll SUPPLIES AND EQUIPMENT l|||||||||'

 

 

 

HISTOCHEMIST

Experimental morphologist, Ph.D. or equivalent.
Active research program in enzyme and elec-
tron histochemistry. Opportunity for training in
electron microscopy. Salary commensurate with
qualiﬁcations. Hospital-afﬁliated research insti-
tute, New York.

Box 460, SCIENCE

 

PHARMACOLOGISTS — Excellent opportunities
for applicants expecting Ph.D. within next few
months or preferably Ph.D. applicants with 1 to
5 years of experience, to inaugurate and expand
chemical screening program and methods desrgn
in research department of ethical drug manufac-
turing subsidiary of large chemical manufacturer.
Write to Mr. A. G. Worton, Warren-Teed Phar-
maceuticals Inc. (Subsidiary of Rohm & Haas
Company), 582 West Goodale Street, Columbus,
Ohio 43215.

218

 

 

I9I9 - I964
LaMotte Chemical
Chestertown, Maryland, U.S.A.
Specialists in
Colorimetric Techniques
Re‘agents-Standards-Comparators
Send for illustrated
Controls Handbook Dept. H

 

 

 

 

SPRAGUE-DAWLEY, INC.
Pioneers in the development of the
STANDARD LABORATORY RAT.

P.O. Box 4220
Madison, Wisconsin
CE 3-53I8

 

 

 

 

SYMPOSIUM ON BASIC
RESEARCH

Editor: Dael WoIer . I959

AAAS Symposium Volume
No. 56

328 pages, cloth $3.00

AAAS members’ cash order, price
$2.50

Sponsored by the National Academy
of Sciences, the American Association
for the Advancement of Science, and
the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation.

CONTENTS

J. Robert Oppenheimer, The Need for
New Knowledge

Alan T. Waterman, Basic Research in
the United States

W. 0. Baker, The Paradox of Choice

Laurence M. Gould, Basic Research
and the Liberal Arts College

C. A. Elvehiem, Basic Research and
the State University

Lee A. DuBridge, Basic Research and
the Private University

James R. Killian, Jr., Capsule Conclu-
sions

Crawford H. Greenewalt, Basic Re-
search: A Technological Savings Ac.
count

Dwight D. Eisenhower, Science: Hand-
maiden of Freedom

Allen V. Astin, Basic Research in Gov-
ernment Laboratories

James B. Fisk, Basic Research in In-
dustrial Laboratories

Merle A. Tuve, Basic Research in Pri-
vate Research Institutes

Paul E. Klopsteg, Support of Basic
Research from Government

Robert E. Wilson, Support of Basic
Research by Industry

Robert S. Morison, Support of Basic
Research from Private Philanthropy

Dael Wolﬂe, The Support of Basic Re-
search: Summary of the Symposium

British Agents: Bailey Bors. & Swinten, Ltd.
Warner House,

48 Upper Thames Street,
London, E.0.4

American Association for the
Advancement of Science

I515 Massachusetts Avenue, NW
Washington, D.C. 20005

 

 

SCIENCE, VOL. 145

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

THE NEW

”WW" W».

f/M‘N
((m E\
\i‘ V

I

TM
.2‘ 2’
x W 3 I O
N, “ ,v’
'm/

To the already superlative Cent-O-Gram features we have
now added the convenience of direct dialing and mag-
netic damping to give you the “Fastest Weigh Yet”.

0 EASY DIRECT-READING DIAL
10 ‘GRAMS TO .01 GRAM

o FRIC ION-FREE MAGNETIC DAMPING
LIFE- ~IME PERMANENT ALNICO MAGNETS

o TRUE PRECISION SPRING FOR EXTREME ACCURACY
OVER LIFE OF BALANCE

all for only $49.75

Write for Bulletin No. 3D.

OHAUS SCALE CORPORATION
1050 COMMERCE AVENUE . UNION, N. J.

 

 




MU“

Aca/
dc"
r

 

 

NOW COUNT IOO
LIOUIO
SCINTILLATION.
SAMPLES
AUTOMATICALLY
AT ROOM
TEMPERATURE
WITH HIGH
EFFICIENCY

Many users of liquid scintillation
spectrometers are finding that
room temperature counting offers
certain advantages over refriger-

ated operation. One of the most.

significant is that the solubility

of the solutions encountered in
normal sample preparation tech-
niques is much better at room
temperature. This means that
more sample may be placed in
the counting vial with less chance
of quenching. The results are
shorter counting times and better
statistics.

Nuclear-Chicago ambient tem-
perature liquid scintillation sys-
tems routinely deliver differential
counting efficiencies of 87% for
H3 and 78% for C14 with back-
grounds of 40 cpm and 32 cpm
respectively—a very favorable
comparison with refrigerated
units. Now we have combined
this proved performance with the
convenience of large sample ca-
pacity to offer the user maximum
value at lowest possible cost. Two
automatic systems with 100 sam-
ple capacity are available:

Model 6801. Three channel sys-

tem with dual scaler and data
lister for automatic printout of
samplenumber,time,and counts.

Model 6804. Three channel sys—
tem with dual scaler and data
lister/calculator for automatic
printout of cpm and scaler ratios
in addition to sample number,
time, and counts.

Both of these new systems also
feature the same electronic and
mechanical refinements that have
contributed to the excellent reli-
ability of all other Nuclear-Chi-
cago liquid scintillation spectro-
meters. Please consult your Nu-
clear~Chicago sales engineer or
write us for complete details and
prices on Models 6801 and 6804.

NUCIB-4-215

NUCLEAR-CHICAGO

A DIVISION OF NUCLEAR-CHICAGO CORPORATION

349 Howard, Des Plaines, Illinois 60018

 




ANIMALS IN THE LABORATORY

CLEVELAND AMOHY’s PLEA for support of
national legislation to curb mistreatment
of animals in medical research [81%, june
1] produced letters of approval [SR,
june 22] in which medical research work-
ers were described as sadistic, heartless
monsters, or worse. In the same issue,
Robert Berliner, an internationally re~
spected physiologist, cancelled his sub-
scription because of Mr. Amory’s article.
\Vere Mr. Amory’s facts wrong or has Dr.
Berliner been successfully hiding a cruel
and vicious nature behind the humane and
gentle exterior he has presented for many
years to all who know him? The answers
to these questions expose the dilemma and
suggest the solution to the problem of the
justiﬁcation for animal research.

Mr. Amory does not distinguish between
necessary experiments in which pain can-
not be entirely avoided, and suffering in-
Hicted through callousness or indifference.
He cites, as a horrible example, experi-
ments with which I have first-hand experi-
ence. These experiments, in which a state
of shock was produced in dogs by trauma-
tizing a hind leg, took place at Columbia
during the Second \Vorld \Var. Although
the animals were, of course, fully anesthet—
ized during the procedure, it was neces-
sary to have them come out of anesthesia
while their legs were swollen and painful.
Neither I nor any of my associates enjoyed
the suffering produced, and we would
gladly have chosen other methods of ﬁnd-
ing answers to the problem of traumatic
shock if any other approach were avail-
able. These experiments established that
the cause of death was a direct conse—
quence of the loss of blood from blood
vessels even though this was not visible
by inspection. Damage to the nervous sys-
tem, release of toxic materials from the
site of injury, or any of the other possible
causes that had been proposed were ruled
out as major contributors. The results ob-
tained in this as well as in other labora-
tories proved that if the lost blood were
replaced immediately, the animals recov-
ered. Your readers will undoubtedly re-
member the helicopter airlift that returned
wounded soldiers to blood transfusion sta-
tions set up directly behind the front lines.
Blood collected in a nationwide donor pro-
gram, given immediately, saved the lives
of thousands of soldiers during the Korean
\Var. \Vithout animal research these men
would now be dead. The number of civil—
ians now alive after automobile accidents
that would have proved fatal without rapid
transfusion runs into the tens of thousands.
I do not regret mv participation in these
“horrible” experiments and would not hes-
itate to engage in the investigation of a
similar problem again.

\Vhenever men use “lower” animals for
food, furs, or medical research, constant
vigilance must be maintained to ensure
that this heavy responsibility is not abused.
It comes as a surprise to many people that
virtually every state in the union already

SR/July 27, 1963

 

has laws to punish irresponsible cruelty to
animals and children. Mr. Amory might
ponder why no successful action has
been brought under these existing laws
in the instances of alleged mistreatment
of animals which he has cited. Federal
legislation in this area, supported by well—
meaning persons who have not thought
this problem through, would make a crim—
inal of all experimenters who inflicted pain
on animals, without considering whether
it was justiﬁed, as in the experiments on
shock described earlier.

The use of animals for man’s purposes
cannot be escaped. Mr. Amory must still
swat mosquitoes, spray flies, and cook his
food to kill parasites and bacteria. He
avoids answering the important question:
When is it justiﬁable for man to intervene
in the lives of other animals? Would he
say no to polio virus or vaccine for his
children? \Vould he die of diabetes or of
a correctable heart condition because the
treatment evolved from research in which
animals suffered pain? I suspect that he
would not and that he is attempting to
ease his own conscience by berating the
research scientists who bear this heavy
burden for him.

The \VARDS Society mentioned by
Mrs. l\"Iarquis Childs has apparentlv faced
up to this issue and is working for the
alleviation of any unnecessary suffering in
animal research while acknowledging the
necessity of many of the types of experi-
ments cited bv Mr. Amory. It is unfortu-
nate that the bills now being sponsored in
Congress, and the animal welfare groups
that support these bills, do not show the
courage and concern for their fellow man
which the situation requires. Medical re-

 

«SHIN;
THROUGH HISTORY WITH ]. WESLEY SMITH ‘
“Sorry, Wesley, we’re replacing you with an abacusi’w

searchers expect vilification fror .
group who do not have the ma‘turl - -
view research in its entire context. ., --
burdens would be considerably lightened
if the very large group of people who want
the beneﬁts of medical research, and un—
derstand the responsibilities of the scien—
tists involved, would have the grace and
courage to let it be known publicly that
they are on our side.

DANIEL L. KLINE,

Physiologist,

Yale University

School of Medicine.

New Haven, Conn.

PENDING BEFORE committees of the Con-
gress are several bills introduced to regu-
late and control the use of animals in
medical and biological research. All of
these bills incorporate provisions designed
to set minimum standards for the comfort,
general care, and housing of laboratory
animals obtained or used in connection
with research activities supported by fed-
eral funds and for the licensing of institu—
tions that complv with these standards.
Several of the bills contain additional pro-
visions for the licensing of individual ex-
perimenters and for the approval of
proposed experiments in a fashion compa-
rable to the system established in Great
Britain under an Act of Parliament passed
in 1876. Members of the Harvard Faculty
of Medicine, alOng with the majority of
American medical and biological scientists,
are strongly in favor of measures that en-
sure the proper care in all respects of
laboratory animals. We believe equally
strongly that the proposed legislation to
control experiments involving animals will

17

 




-in the United States at the present time-—
seriously impede the progress of science.
In our experience, it is rarely possible to
carry on a signiﬁcant series of experiments
without the ability to modify, change, and
redirect the work as it progresses.

In a matter of such vital concern to the
health and well-being of humankind, it
seems to us reasonable that a magazine of
SR’s reputation and standing should re-
quest its science editor to marshall all the
facts and present them to the readers who
were reached by Cleveland Amory. In
doing so, the science editor might in fair-
ness note that the “revolting Harvard Med-
ical School burning experiments” on dogs
and pigs were performed in 1943 at the
express request of the wartime Committee
on Medical Research in an effort to learn
how best to protect and treat soldiers at-
tacked by ﬂame throwers.

GEORGE PAGKER BERRY, M.D.,
Dean, Harvard Medical School.
Boston, Mass.

I BELIEVE THAT the subject of animal
experimentation needs frank discussion,
and I’m disappointed that the correspond-
ence in your magazine has tended so
quickly toward a battle of moral absolutes.
I do not learn from either side what I
need to know.

Mr. Amory describes experiments as if

- were prompted by idle curiosity or

"ey‘ studied during the three

f”, e they were killed? If one of

_ ildren inhaled ﬂame during a ﬁre
id then lived for several days in a hospi-

tal, I would not want to be told, “No
medical research has been done on this
because the: lung damage is almost certainly
fatal, and the experiments would be too
horrible to consider.” I would feel very
different in such a situation from the way
I felt when ﬁrst reading of the experiments
in Mr. Amory’s column. The clinical details
of massive injury, starvation, burning, etc.,
must be just as sickening when they are
seen in human victims as when they are
watched in laboratory animals. If there is
to be any hope for treatment, one must
begin with the condition to be treated.

I am just as dissatisﬁed with the argu-
ment for animal experimentation. Dr. Laur-
ence Finberg writes in the letters to the
editor for June 1 that biological scientists
support “the desirability of eliminating
unnecessary suffering for laboratory ani-
mals.” How? Is there real discipline within
the profession to control careless work and
needless repetition? I am as skeptical
about such discipline as I am about actual
sadism.

Dr. Finberg seems to believe that moti-
vation and results are not proper concerns
for legislation. The layman is probably
not a competent judge in this area, but
professional scientists should be. If they
do not themselves correct abuses and reas—
sure the interested laymen, they are going
to get the sort of hue and cry that is cur-
rently being raised in your magazine.

I would be very interested in having
this discussion taken up in the science
section of your magazine. Scientiﬁc peri-
odicals—those I have seen, at least—take
animal experiments for granted. Lay writ-
ters seldom sound well informed about the

 

tiﬁc laboratories.

vision.

or bodies of men.

 

WRITERS OF THE above letters, as well as a number of other readers, suggest
, o o . u a

that I, as SR 5 scrence editor, have an obllgatlon to make known my Views on

Cleveland Amorys charges that animals are cruelly treated in American scien-

My ﬁrst obligation is to examine serious public problems exhaustively before
expressing myself publicly in regard to them. Appropriate inquiry into Mr.
Amory’s accusations would require months of travel and study of experimental
data, including the reasons for particular experiments, the timing and other
circumstances surrounding the experiments, and a comparison of the stated
purposes with the actual results of the experiments.

I had, in fact, made modest beginnings toward a study of care of experi-
mental animals some time before Mr. Amory published his statements in his
FIRST OF THE MONTH column. My study is far from complete. Until such time
as it may be ﬁnished, I prefer to express only three very broad views:

F irst: Biological researchers make a grave mistake when thev assume that
antivivisectionists are the only ones interested in protecting the life forms which
surround and support man’s existence.

Second: Men who use animals for experimental purposes should not expect
to be free of qualiﬁed supervision by the community, nor should they expect
that their standards alone will determine the degree or nature of the super-

Third: Whatever discipline is determined upon by the community must be
exercised with due regard for the rights and reputations of individuals and
institutions. If charges are to be made, they should be speciﬁc. Mr. Amory
might, for example, identify the animal care organization of which he is an
ofﬁcer. He might name the scientiﬁc laboratories which he or its inspectors have
visited. He might describe the conditions discovered at these places. He might
tell what improvements were suggested during or after the visits, and to what if
any extent the suggestions were accepted. He might comment upon the attitude
displayed by the laboratory staff members toward interest expressed by out-
siders. If he quotes others, whether at Congressional hearings or elsewhere,
he might identify them and cite their qualiﬁcations to speak on the subject.
Blanket indictments unsupported by speciﬁc documentation are as alien to
genuine democracy as is unrestrained power in the hands of particular groups

-—JOHN LEAR.

needed to move in that direction.

 

 

scientiﬁc aspects. We all beneﬁt from the
results of research. I believe we share
the responsibility for the suffering of ani-
mals that are used, and we share the obli-
gation to see that they do not suffer need-
lessly. It would help if the experimenters
would respond more sympathetically to the
lay public’s concern.
MRS. JOHN F. ZIEGLER.

Lowell, Ind.

THE TEST OF EDUCATION

I FIND IT IMPOSSIBLE to accept N.C.’s con-
tention, in his editorial “Not So Fast”
[83, July 6], that the ability to think is
the ultimate test of education. I do not
wish to argue with all that the editorial
says about the importance of sequential
thought—we are lost without it.

But if graduates of our schools and col-
leges merely think, we are lost. To a
human being, sequential thought must be
of value only as a premise for judgments
and action. Education that fails to develop
those two abilities and to inspire motiva-
tion for both judgment and action cannot
really claim to be education. . . .

It seems to me that today too many
people are thinking without coping with or
meeting the problems—fearful perhaps of
bearing the consequences of courses which
they see clearly as necessary for the solu-
tion of individual, national, and world
problems. On the other hand, a great
many people seem to be acting without
thought at all.

PATRICK E. LEE,
College of Great Falls.
Great Falls, Mont.

THE EDITORIAL calling for promoting proper
habits of thought in order to achieve “the
ultimate test of education . . ., the ability
to think” is just the push this teacher
N.C.’s
presentation was persuasive and instructive.

\Ve at Scarsdale Junior High School
have just the right program to do the job,
thanks to our English-American history
“bloc.” There is no reason why we can-
not make our composition topics, spelling
lists, and vocabulary lists all spring from
the history materials. . . .

It is gratifying to note that your monthly
Education Supplement isn’t the only issue
containing points of interest to teachers.

IRVING J. SLOAN.
New York, N.Y.

STARVATION DIET

I AGREE 100 per cent with Granville Hicks’s
column about the quality of the TV pro-
gram Camera Three [LITERARY HORIZONs,
July 6]. When this program became avail-
able in our area I watched it several times
and wrote to the station and producer to
tell them how much my friends and I
appreciated the program. Maybe the FCC
should look into the possibilities for more
programs of this kind, preferably also in
the evening. We certainly are kept on a
starvation diet by TV in general. Our
mental food needs some supplementary
Vitamins ( without advertising).
MRS. HILDA SADOWSKY.

Troy, N.Y.

SR/July 27, 1963

 




p"?“\ f"

STUDIES OF FUNCTION IN HEALTH AND DISEASE

Contributions in Honor of

Dre Harold E0 Himwich
Director, Research Division
and
Thudichum Psychiatric Research Laboratory
Galesburg State Research Hospital
Galesburg, Illinois

on his 65th Birthday

Edited by

Amedeo So Marrazzi, M.Do
and
Mo Ho Aprison, PhD,

1960

 




BAR BITAL POS TCONV ULSION PARESIS

HINDLIMB PARESIS IN CATS FOLLOWING
BARBITAL WITHDRAWAL CONVULSIONS

Carl F. Essig .
National Institute of Mental Health
Addiction Research Center
U. S. Public Health Service
Lexington, Kentucky

The occurrence of convulsions as a part of the barbiturate withdrawal
syndrome has been reported and confirmed (1, 2, 3). The dog and cat are
also subject to these abstinence seizures (4, 5, 6).

Heretofore, to the author's knowledge, there has been no physiological
evidence that irreversible central nervous system changes occur in survivors
of uncomplicated barbiturate withdrawal. The present report describes a
partial impairment in the use of the hindlimbs (paraparesis) in some cats
which developed convulsions during abstinence from barbital (diethyl barbituric
acid). The possibility that the paraparesis is due to a partially irreversible

lesion in the nervous system will be discussed.

METHODS

Eight cats received barbital orally each morning and afternoon for periods
ranging from 78 to 255 days. The initial daily dose varied from 30 to 60 mg, and
it was increased in 30 mg increments depending on individual tolerance. Final
dose levels ranged from 109 to 173 mg/kg. A wide base staggering gait and
side-to-side swaying of the head “were evident throughout most of the intoxica-
tion interval. The animals were maintained on raw pork liver and milk.

Withdrawal was complete and abrupt. The “occurrence of convulsions
was monitored in activity cages which utilized spring mounted ﬂoors attached to
phonograph crystal pickups (6). The crystal outputs were ampliﬁed and fed into
EEG oscillograph units which activated ink writers. Continuous records of six .
to nine days of withdrawal were obtained by using very slow paper speeds
(3. O cm/min).

 




RESULTS

Five of the 8 cats had from one to forty-four convulsions (Table 1).
The convulsions which were witnessed resembled the generalized tonic-clonic
seizures produced by electrical stimulatiOn in this species. Of these 5 animals
3 developed paraparesis. In one (cat 130) paralysis of the hindlimbs was first
observed after the second seizure which occurred 47 3/4 hours following abrupt
withdrawal of the drug. The animal lay with its hindlimbs extended and appeared
unable to walk prior to its death 71 3/ 4 hours after drug withdrawal. In the
other 2 animals (cats 131 and 133) paraparesis was noted after several withdrawal
seizures, but they survived and some improvement was noted in the use of their
hindlimbs during the ensuing weeks. Illustrations of their abnormal hindlimb
postures are shown in the photographs. The difficulty in walking which remained
frOm three to five months prior to sacrifice did not resemble a wide based
cerebellar gait. Cat 133 walked on its ﬂexed ankles part of the time. Walking
appeared to be hampered by weakness in hindlimbs which war a not spastic.
However, there was no obvious hyporeflexia or wasting.

Postmortem examination of these 2 animals failed to reveal vertebral

displacement, hemorrhage or other gross structural alteration of the brain or

spinal cord. Neuro-histologic studies have not been done.

DISCUSSION

Presently, it appears that approximately 60 per cent of cats which have
convulsions during withdrawal from barbital also develop an impairment in the
use of their hindlimbs. More quantitative physiological measures may have
revealed a lesser degree of this disorder in more of these animals. By the same
token the forelimbs may also be subject to a lesser degree of this affection.

Although an explanation of the phenomenon remains to be demonstrated,
a tentative hypothesis can be'offered which assumes that cytologic changes are
caused by the combined effects of the drug and/ or its withdrawal, as well as the
convulsions. Thus, chronic exposure to barbital has been reported to cause

the appearance of mucinoid bodies as well as degenerative changes in the nerve

 




CONTRIBUTORS

APRISON, M. H. , Ph. D.
Associate Professor of Biochemistry, Institute of Psychiatric Research,
and Departments of Biochemistry and Psychiatry, Indiana University
Medical Center, Indianapolis, Indiana.

BOUZARTH, WILLIAM F. , M. D.
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

COSTA, ERMINIO, M. D.
Medical Research Associate, Galesburg Research Hospital, Galesburg,
Illinois.

ESSER, MARY ANN
'U.S. P. H.S. Research Fellow, Department of Physiology, Stanford
University, Stanford, California.

ESSIG, CARL F., M. D.
Neuropharmacologist, Neurologist, National Institute of Mental Health,
Addiction Research Center, US Public Health Service, Lexington, Kentucky.

FREEDMAN, ALFRED, M. , M. D.
Associate Professor of Psychiatry, Department of Pediatrics, State University
of New York, Downstate Medical Center, Brooklyn, New York.

HART, E. ROSS, Ph. D.
Chief, DiVision of Neurophysiology 8: Neuropharmacology,
Veterans Administration Research Laboratories in Neuropsychiatry,
Pittsburgh 6, Pennsylvania. Associate Professor of Pharmacology,

University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine.

HIMWICH, WILLIAMINA A. , Ph. D.
Medical Research Associate, Galesburg State Research Hospital, Galesburg,
Illinois.

MARRAZZI, AMEDEO S. , M. D.
Director, Veterans Administration Research Laboratories in Neuropsychiatry,

Pittsburgh 6, Pennsylvania. Professor of Physiology & Pharmacology,
University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine.

MAYERSON, H.S. , Ph. D.
Professor 8: Head Department of Physiology, Tulane University School of
Medicine, New Orleans, Louisiana.

 




MEIER, R. , Ph. D.
Professor, Manager, CIBA Limited, Basle, Switzerland.

NAHUM, L. H. , M. D.

Lecturer, Department of Physiology, Yale University School of Medicine,
New Haven, Connecticut.

NATHAN, P. , Ph. D.

Research Associate and Assistant to the Director, The May Institute of
Medical Research of the Cincinnati Jewish Hospital, Cincinnati, Ohio.

PATTERSON, RODNEY M.

Fellow, Department of Physiology, Tulane University School of Medicine,
New Orleans, Louisiana.

PHILLIPS, R. , M. D.

Department of Physiology, Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven,
Connecticut.

RINALDI, FRANCO, M. D.

Neurophysiologist, Abbott Laboratories, North Chicago, Illinois. Assistant

Clinical Professor of Psychiatry, Northwestern University Medical School,
Chicago, Illinois.

ROSE, MILTON, M. D. , Ph. D. , Dr. P. H.

Palo Alto, California. Research Associate in Physiology, School of Medicine,
Stanford University, Stanford, California.

STREICHER, EUGENE, Ph. D.

Section on Aging, Laboratory of Psychology, National Institute of Mental
Health, Bethesda, Maryland.

TRIPOD, J.
Research Laboratories, Pharmaceutical Department, CIBA, Basle, Switzerland.

VALCOURT, ALFRED]. , Ph. D.
Springﬁeld Memorial Hospital, Springﬁeld, Illinois.

WHITE, RICHARD P. , Ph. D.
Associate Professor of Pharmacology, Senior Research Fellow U.S. P. H.S. ,

Department of Pharmacology, University of Tennessee Medical Units,
Memphis, Tennessee.

WIRZ, E.
Research Laboratories, Pharmaceutical Department, CIBA, Basle, Switzerland.

 




Table 1.

 

_ Final Number Death
Days Dose of Para— During
Addicted mg/ kg Convulsions Paresis Withdrawal

240 160 4 + Yes
. 255 173 ‘ 44 * +’ No

206 168 " o " No
206 123 6 No
. 114 109 No

114 136

'78 114 e 1 V No

110 141 - No

 

 

 




REFERENCES

Pohlisch, K. Monatschr. Psychiat. in Neurol. 69: 351, 1928.
Kalinowsky, L. B. Arch. Neurol. Psychiat. 48: 946, 1942.

Ishell, 11., s. Altschul, c. H. Kornetsky, A. J. Eisenman, H. G.
Flanary, and H. F. Fraser. Arch. Neurol. Psychiat. 64: 1., 1950.

Seevers, M. H. and A. L. Tatum. J. Pharmacol. & Exper. Therap.
42: 217, 1931.

Fraser, H. F. and H. Isbell. J. Pharmacol. & Exper. Therap.
112: 261, 1954.

Essig, C. F. and H. G.,F1anary. EEG 8: Clin. Neurophysiol.
In Press.

Mott, F. W., D. L. WoodhouSe, and M. B. Pickworth. Brit. J.
exp. Path. 7: 325, 1926.

McIlwain, H. Biochemistry and the Central Nervous System.
Little, Brown and Co. , Boston, pp. 176, 1955.

 

 




cells of the brain and anterior horn cells of the spinal cords of cats (7). These
authors described a decrease in the size and number of Nissl bodies, eccentric
nuclei, vacu'lation, and the presence of phagocyte cells in their preparations of
the cat spinal cord.

Aside from this histotoxic evidence, it is not inconceivable that convul-
. sions produce an effect on spinal neurones similar to that which has been re-
ported in guinea pigs forced to run on a moving belt. A reduction in the amount
of cytoplasmic nucleotides and protein has been described in the anterior horn
cells of these animals (8). When they ran to the point of exhaustion, 48 hours
were required to restore the cytoplasmic materials which had been reduced to
one-third of normal levels. Convulsions may not be comparable with this degree

of running effort, but enough cytoplasmic depietiea may occur that normal

restorative processes are hampered by an adverse effect of barbital intoxication

and/ or withdrawal such as that described above.

It is possible that a summation of these factors causes a gradation of
neuronal damage which is not confined to the anterior horn cells of the lumbo-
sacral segments.

Any explanation of the paraparesis is obviously related to the problem
of whether irreversible damage to the central nervous system follows the chronic
abuse and/ or withdrawal of any barbiturate. Further study of this problem is in
progress.

SUMMARY

1. Partial paralysis of the hindlimbs developed in 3 of 5 cats exhibiting

withdrawal convulsions, following a period of chronic administration of barbital.

2. A possible explanation of the disorder is presented.

 




Cat 131, 22 days after last dose of barbital.

 




Cat 133, one month after final dose of barbital.

 




3-3 "3333373133.. 5:"? 0 F EU N C THEN 3 .33 373E A 341‘ 33 A333) 333 .33 3: 3‘5 3?;

5““

’5

31:33.3333333332333 3.33. 33.0330: “1"

H. :3 3." {33 :3 E2 33 3 m W301”:
'33 3'5: 335:- {333 r {3 31 33.3333 33 .3. (.333
:3, 33:13

Th 26133.3(; 1623.: m P .3 ya: 32313.1 3'33: 33235533133331 3.33333333333
!

._ {"ff)?"
L,).‘.,. A?

(33.33133 33:333. ,RPSESTE‘ﬂ‘l 333333333
(3233335333333. Illinais;

on his. 633th Birthday

33 (33.333913 by

Amedem S A'i.;3m3;53..:m3. 3333.3
3133.3. ‘
M. 33 1535331336211, 3333 3.3

 




BARBITAL i-IOSTCONV ULSION PAR-E515

HINDLIMB PARESIS IN CATS FOLLOWING
BARBITAL ‘MTHDRAWAL CONVULSIONS

Carl F Essig
Nationnl Institute of Mental Health
Addiction Research Center
U”. S“ Public Health Service
Lexington, Kentucky

The occurrence of convulsions as a. part of the tarbiturate withdrawal

’Iidrnme has been reported and confirmed (1, 2, 3). The dog and cat are

“Inn 1222 the nervous system will be discussed.

METHODS
3. I33 ight cats rec eived bar-hi tel orally each morning and afternoon for periods
Hedging from 78 to “50.013318 The initial daily dose varied from 30 to 60 mg and
;,,:;Wes increased in 30 mg increments depending on individual tolerance Final
ease levels ranged from 109 to 173 trig/kg. A wide base staggering git and
,fwidewtmside swaying oi the head were evident throughout most of the intoxica—
ion interval. The animals were maintained on raw pork liver and milk.
I, Withdrawal was complete and abrupt The occurrence of convulsions
Ines monitored in activity cages which utilized spring mounted floors attAched to
nphenogrsph crystal pickups (6): The crystal outputs were ampliﬁed and fed into
EILG oscillograph units which activated inkwrit'ers. Continuous, records of six
, in nine days of withdrawal were obtained by using very slow paper speeds
{3. O cm/m'in),

 




RESULTS.
.lE’ive of the 8 cats had from one to forty~four convulsions (Table I}
the convulsions which were witnessed resembled the generalized tonicwcloric
mares produced by electrical stimulation in this species Of these 5 animus ‘

iii *eveloped paraparesis. In one ( cat 130) mralysls of the hindlimbs was first

obs resume the second seizure which occurred 47 3/4 hours following abrupt

the drug. The animal lay with its hindlimbs extended and appeared
prior to its death '71 3/ 4 hours after drug withdrawal. In the
. ls ”(cats 131 and 133) parapatresis was noted after several udthdrawnl
tthey survived and some improvement was noted in the use of their
Hgthe ensuing weeks.» .Illustrations of their abnormal hindlimb

swam the photographs. The difficulty in walking which remainee

ﬁhemorrtnge or other gross structural alteration of the brain or
'Neuro-histologic studies have not been done.

DISC USSI 0N

_ like. .5. s—‘madr-w- ‘ ~ ""

 




Table 1.

 

Fina}; Number Death
Cat Emma Dom of ?am~ Du ring
Nag ' ﬁddimed mgfkg; Cmvulsmna Paraala Withdrawal

Mei} , 168 4 Yes
2% m . No
2% mg: _ o No
206 m e . N0
M4‘ ma. _ .No
114 1% ‘ ' Yes
?8 11% . l ‘ No

3.10 141 N0

 

'{W"' '

My .

who

‘7 9. yaw-5+

{34“ '
3-,“.

1;;36’

A,

3?. :Z';

 




cells of the brain and anterior horn cells of the. spinal cords of cats .(7). These

authors described-a decrease in the size and number of Nissl bodies, eccentric

nuclei, vaculation, and the presence of phagocyte cells in their preparations of

the cat Spinal cord.
TIA-side from thishistotoxic evidence, it is not inconceivable that convul-

‘1.

110111131 levels. Convulsions may not be comparable with this degree

o
c

on, but enough cytoplasmic depletion may occur that normal
CCesses are hampered by an adverse effect of barbital intoxication

 




. ‘mvﬁ: hm»;

,ﬁwfmpuuﬁ

\p.\

 




:3"; 33'- it

 




They’ll Make It Easier on Our Eyes

A long line of long-eared white rabbits gets eye treatment in a pharmaceutical laboratory at West Point, Pa., with the aim of '
helping human. eyes. Since rabbit’s" eyes and skins are more sensitive to irritants than those of man, the rabbits are used to
detect possible irritating effects of new medical preparations.

 

 

 




 

 

"R it 1963 W4“

 

V l-
! . .. I O
. The Philadelphl
- 5 IT Sl’RPRlSED us to learn thi1?_;liiﬂ:':}a:riq

Wanamaker has a job—a research
mann Medical College and Hospital.

“I work full time at least four days a week -r'
Mondays, Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Friday 5." said
the wife of the board chairman of the John Wana~
maker department store. “Often I’m here .‘Saturdal'S
and Sundays, too—~sometimes as early as 6 A. M.”

Louise Wanamaker is a surgical research techni-
clan. She started out as a volunteer two years ago.
but since December, 1961, she has been on the par-
roll.

The work that Mrs. Wanamaker does is impor-
tant. In Hahnemann’s Biological ResearchLaborao
tory, she assists the director—Dr. Henry P. Schnei-
der, one of America’s leading research veterinarians.
A professor, he heads Hahnemann’s division of Vet‘
erinary Medicine.

Recently we spent a morning with Mrs. Wana~
maker and Dr. Schneider in their old but interesting
little building which is down the driveway from Hah-
nemann’s Cardiovascular Research Institute.
“,JWliat docs Louise Wanamaker do? She gives
animals post-operative care-10ving care. She. pre-
pares pntlzs tor the autoclave. She does histopatho-
logical examinations. She assists in surgery~~~rou~
tine. operations and more dil‘l‘icult ones like open-
(hvst surgery Sire has helped with kidney trans-
plants. Sln- stzitlies patterns of dog heart Circulation.
On occasion, she does blood tests-mlooking t‘or intes—
tinal ['ltir'asilcs. _

“I fill in wherever necessary,” said Mrs. Wana-

maker. “I take care of our patients. I watch the I. V.
(intravenous) drip. I walk the dogs. Once. I even
scrubbed the floor. \k’hoever is nearest the mop
wields it."
‘ Personal attention is given the dogs—mam} per-
sonal names arr pivtn to (.‘tmvalcscing patients. One
post-Opt‘i-ruiir- roliic was called "John “:ftll'lilmlll‘it‘l‘.”
Another tuzllt'lll. a boxer, has bcen named “Henry
Schneider

“PM“ . :"‘l?l" food from home to (War-
litt,” F‘iltl fvli'~~.. ’1‘» (Warrant ”iic' 715.. mm .it'e.
Charlie \~..i.-. 'llit :.:itcd on in Uttolm.

Dogs arr-n't the only animals at the Biological Re-

3 UV

7

a scene 000000000000

search Laboratory. “We’ve had calves for patients,

too,” Dr. Schneider said. “Also pigs and rabbits. We

are leaders here at Hahnemann in animal care."

"l more are six certified surgeons in the laboratory
' lira .ics;,..:in, England and the Plilllp~

.’ z. . ..-
"- ’:' i-iiiﬁ.

x ‘4

v

t.» -. “ .. nit paying job that Mrs. Wana—

t." '1 Irlz- . .- a! Because her two t;:ltildren are
l"!- en: r so» derided she wanted to work. Last
H.1l:!IT‘lt“l'. ,sltf.‘ Eook tfﬂllwﬁf'e courses for the lira". time.

we. mornings. ;' unafitrtl i’itllt'lgy at Penn. In
ii ,. at noun .md evening. ! worked to; Hi. Schneider
at ilahnmnann. Dinner? igrabbco -som~.;tlttﬂg to
eat when I got homeumaﬁrbe at 9 o'clotk. maybe at
it). I hope it“) go back to Penn again this summer. I'd
lib,“ to take anatomy.”

l."rs. Wanamaker docs considcmble studying at.
lit-inc. She climbs into an oversrzed oxygen tent that
(l‘.‘«'".l{)l{’f‘§ half of lit‘t' livmg room. leaning back on a
].llll)\\, slie curls up and reads a book on histology.

“(fan you think of a ltwtler place to study?" asked
lULilSC‘ Wanamaker. smiling.

The oxygen tent is‘ on casters. It makes a first-
rate study cubicle. but that isn‘t its primary purpose.
“Beanie,“ the Wanamakers’ l7-year~otd Yorkshire ter-

rier, is the chief occupant. Beanie has a congenital
heart condition and suffers from asthma. Said Mrs.
Wanamaker: “When Beanie is sick, I get into the oxy-
gen tent with him.”

 

Ell ’R(rl(..‘\l. RESEARCH 'I'HIl i.\’lCl/\N: Mrs. John R. W’snamaker. of Chestnut Hill, is an .IKSl-Stilnt at Biological Re-
search laboratory of llahnemann Medical Lollcge and Hospital. She is shown here with Dr. Henry P. Schneider,
director or the laboratory. who holds division of Vctcrinarv Medicine.

 

 

 




a? Jaw " ‘V

4,, ..I
i: “m. , . y
i. “ate"! M‘Sgl n t .
Hsﬁ’J’ x... 7 A}

“Mac

‘ t
' DO YOU believe it urgent

5 that:

i

l
i
l
i

l
i
l

I
i .
l

1.iUse of animals in med-i-
‘ cal research be regulated by
- the federal government now?

,2. Legal standards should
be established for humane
housing and care of experi-
-- mental animals now?

. 3‘. A n i m al s subjected to
ppainful procedures be given
adequate anesthesia, pain re-
. 'lieving drugs and post-opera-
[tive care now?

4-. Individuals and organiza—
> tions engaged in tax-support-
.:_ed biomedical work meet
standards prescribed by law
.g,now?

_ 5. Scientists and other ani-
1 Imal-handlers must be quali-
{tied for their work before

-- being allowed to handle ani- l

mals DOW? '

7. f'fSIMUpsé" :of non-sentient forms

;b‘f"17'ifli'fe, tissue " cultures and
.i‘micro .- Organisms must be
igencouraged to r e d u c e and
j‘perh‘aps eventually. eliminate
shumane standards now?

7 ' 7~. Animalnsing. laboratories

should be inspected frequent-
Zly’ to insure maintenance of
[almost entirely live animal
[experimentation now?

8-. The millions of research
‘il‘animals used annually get all
{the protection we can get for
them now?

9. Standards for laborator-
ies under the. animal dealer
act P. L. 89-544, limited to
only about five per cent of re-
search animals used and 20
per cent of the huge numbers
of institutions conducting re-
search, should be expanded
to cover virtually all experi-
mental animals and the indi-
v i d u a l s and organizations
that use-them now?

, If your answers to these
pertinent and pressing ques-
tthRS are “yes,” you should
{go to work immediately in
lsupport of, theAnew Rogers

 

 

 

' ettem

and Javits bills, H. R. 13168
and S. 2481.

Help enact this timely and
obtainable protective legisla-
tion by writing your U. S.
representatives and two sena-
tors. Ask them to co—sponsor
the bills without delay. Send .
“thank you” notes to Con-
gressmen Rogers and Senator
J a v i t s. Write to President
Lyndon B. Johnson.

Urge your family and
friends to write similar let-
ters.

Help r e l i e v e the tragic
plight of the millions of ani-
mals used annually in re-
search by doing all you, as a

: humanitarian, can do, and do
, it now.

Mrs. Eileen Hilty
43 North Kniffin St.
Greenwich, O.

 

 

 

 

 




Uh» Earning 3%1211‘
WASHINGT T,ON D C
D. 283,075 SUN. 303,758

I‘

MAY 2 l 1954

Becky, a coon hound, welcomes her two little
charges—Star Staff Photo.

ESCAPED LAB FA TE

 

Nearly
Now 0 Foster Mother

By JACK KELSO

Star Staff Writer
. A coon hound named Becky,
the only known survivor of a
la b o r a to r y animal-holding
compound where hundreds of
dogs and cats died a year ago,
is plump and happy today and
helping others in the only way
she knows.

Becky for a long time after
her rescue cowered in a corner
Whenever a man entered the
room, but now is happily feed-
ing two “toy French. poodles
‘ since their mother’s milk went
dry.

The story began in March,
1963, when the authorities moved
in on a farm in Prince William
County where animals were col-
lected for sale to medical
schools and research labora-
tories.

Hundreds of dead animals
were found buried in trenches.
A skinny, sorrowful. looking
hound survived in a wire cage.

Mrs. Ruth Frandsen of 5134
Worthington drive, Bethesda,
drove with friends to the farm
near Gainesville to see the
conditions there.

Mrs. Frandsen tried to buy
the dog from a caretaker but
he refused to sell. The next day
he called her, agreed to sell and
delivered the animal to her.

“I thought at first we’d just
give her to some good family

Dacmed Dog ,

 

1

but we fell in love with her and

kept her,” Mrs. Frandsen said.

“The first night we had her,”
Mrs. Frandsen said, “she got
into the bird seed "on the back
porch and ate two quarts of
it. She was so starved.” ,

“No man could enter the
room without her cowering in
the corner . . . but she’s all
right now,” she said. At first,
only women and children could
approach her.

The other night, Mrs Frand-
sen heard a radio appeal for a
mother dog that could feed
some Toy French poodle pup-
pies whose own mother had run
out of milk.

Becky had puppies herself a
few weeks back and, although
her puppies were weaned, she
still had milk.

The puppies had been born to
Princess, owned by Senator
Cannon, Democrat of Nevada.
The puppies were at the Her-
mitage Kennels, 13618 Layhill
drive, Wheaton, owned by Mrs.
Betty Clancy, who also owns the
father of the puppies.

Mrs. Frandsen took Becky
there, where the good-natured
hound appeared happy to take
over the duties of mother.

At the same time, Mrs. Lucille
Ruteman of Lucille’s Poodles,
Fairfax, Va, heard about the
situation and brought over a
poodle named Kitten to take
care of the puppies while they
weren’t busy feeding. ;

Mrs. Clancy explained that
Kitten keeps the puppies warm
and teaches them the things
puppies should know until feed-
ing time, when they are trans-
ferred to Becky’s quarters.

Mrs. Clancy says the dogs all
seem very happy with every-
thing. The only confusion ap-
pears to be in the head of the
puppies’ father, Dunner, who
watches everything with the be-
mused look new fathers some
times have.

’1

 




THE
JHOREHAM — WASHINGTON, D. c.

Dear Dr.Eordley,

This will introduce gr3.§hristine
Stevens, of the Animal Welfare Institute, New York:
of whose work we spoke recently aﬂd YOU kindly
offered to see her when she came to Baltimore.

her father, Er.3esell, Frofessor of Physio-
105y at the University of hichigsnywas ESQGCieiiY
interested in the care of animals for research
so as to keep them in the best possible condition
ror the use of the doctors and, at the same time,
to spare them unnecessary suffering. hrs Stevens
nss continued his interest, has studied installetoon:
both here and screed, especially in England,
always with the aim of co laborating with the
doctors. If you wiil have her see your quarters
for research animals at Johns dopiins it Will be
a help and encouragement for W3lch both she and
I will be ﬁrsteful.

She is also trying through Conbress to
further humane slsushter in which, I am sorry to
say, we are lementsbly behind England and some
continental countries which have already made,
or are making it,obligatory.

 




It Seems to me that eke is doing a fine and
very difficult pioneer work and I am Relighted For
the opportunity to have her meet you.

Yours very sincerely

.r

 




Dr Jog: bordiey

..

"Loifﬂg'j' n5 T; O '5 “3“ tai

J";3;13
aaltixore

*7
l“; u o

 




4537 49TH STREET, N. W.
WASHINGTON 16, D. C.

KELLOGG 7-0580

November 22, 1957
of check
Dear Christine : The enclosure/is made pursuant to my remarks over
the telephone but may be applied to any work of the Institute or its
generalrmpenses at.your discretion. I like to feel that I can help a little bit.

Mrs. Brookings is expecting Mr. Porter Tuesday.A. M.
and I told her we would come to her about 11, but she understands the hour
is not precise. I judge that this will allow him adequate time to get
to Washington and connect with me. I shall plan to take the afternoon
off and chauffeur him about in case there are any labs. he would like to
ViSit; that is, shall.be at his disposal (without I hope) being in the way.

I should add that I will telephone you Monday night
if at that time anything had happened as happened the last time we
scheduled this meeting. It is indeed good of him to come again.

One thing which I believe needs to be stressed at this
juncture, at least as far as Mrs. Brookings is concerned, is a little better

definition of just what "improvement of facilities" means, from the viewpoint
of animals.

In other words, I am worried about the phraseolegy in
the enclosed letter. I can visualize that what constitutes "improvement"
from the standpoint of hospital trustees, and so on, would not help the
animals,which.might be happier in an old baru'with a dirt floor than in
an ultra—modern building.

This cannot be discussed in the context of the letter in
question, which is confidential please. (Indeed, I think she would be very
angry with me for showing it to you, because it is not my prerogative obviously. )

(As a matter of fact, the letter has not‘been mailed, except
as to a carbon to her personal phySician who extracted the gift from her. My
instructions are to hold the original until the pledge is due, or deliver it

to her estate if she should die before fulfilling it. Conceivably, then, it
could be redwritten.)

However, I do think that this problem of defining

"improvement" might well come up in the context of discussion about Johns
Hopkins, which she is eager to hear about.

On another subject that we discussed, I understand that I am
tovvrite down some thoughts for your husband to consider, and shall attempt that
during the next few days. I never seem to get a chance to sit down by

myself and think. My jab calls for almost endless paper work.

WW

As ever,

 




" 3333mm 5013.33:

3333333333333 11.: , 1957

3333 3:33-133311, ‘
31333 33333333331333 3333- 31.31 133321132 ,3.
33313333331333, 1). ('3.

D33? ﬂir:

I 333333333 331332.333 1.33 1m".- 3333333333133 333331.131 (3331.333: 3 3333331333
5.33 333131333 31’ “‘30,“ .3213.

13313 333333 ".3113. 3:3 fulfil-.133 :13: 1.3.33 calendar year 1958,33
33333 3.113% 1.3:: £1331. 33‘ January 1958 3233 333.33 33 3333113333331. far 3333, by 3
133333.31: 1.33 1.3333 33333133313 32393331133. 33333133? 91" that am either in cash
$1593.13 33333131133 35.1.32 3 ~33 13131:. 133.133 of approximately (1331. 21331. 1333 than)
3 I 511‘".

31333 £333.33 333 3331333313133 far 1.3133 33331133331333. 3333 first. 31'
1.11333 13 13.3 33333333 3. 33333313: 33331.33 3'33 3 3313333 in 13333 333133331 33‘ 333mm,
1333 3.333.331.1333 3333331131 (33313:.

It i5 11116313330013 Wt 26,508.36 V111 33313333 833%} 3 sch—91331131319
3323.3 3333:: 3323313 3:31 1.33.33 . 331133.333 333331.133, 33313313332133 3333 111111333.

3333333131. 31’ 333-33 cantrébution 133 3333333 3:? 3.2650333331131313
133 33.3.3 3 . " . 3 33f facilitias for 1.133 33:33 3rd madling 31‘
331113 313 3 133 33:33 3.333 33y 1333 33333311331 far 33331-133313]. er 31133 3333331331
3333333333333

39:13 very truly,

33:33., 1733333133113 ﬁmekzings

 




11 January 1963, Volume 139, Number 3550

Biology and the

Nature of Science

Uniﬁcation of the sciences can be most meaningfully
sought through study of the phenomena of life.

Day by day the researcher, the teach-
er, and the student think in terms of
immediate goals and tasks: the project,
the lecture, the assignment. All of us
should occasionally back off a bit and
ask some questions from a wider per-
spective. What is science anyway? What
do scientists hope to accomplish? How
does a particular science articulate with
science as a. whole?

Escape from the Greeks

There is a whole library of attempts
to deﬁne science. The literature is so
prolix and in part so contradictory that
I cannot analyze it and should perhaps
hesitate to add to it. The element of
confusion is well illustrated by a recent
statement that science is “thinking
about the world in the Greek way.”
That is in fact an important thing that
science is not. It has often been argued
that the Greek sense of order was a
necessary condition for the rise of sci-
ence. Necessary, perhaps; sufﬁcient, def—
initely no. The actual origin of science
in the modern sense involved a revolt
against thinking in the Greek way.

The Greek way, which became tradi-
tional in medieval Europe, was well

 

The author is Agassiz professor of vertebrate
paleontology, Museum of Comparative Zoology,
Harvard College, Cambridge, Mass.

1 1 JANUARY 1963

George Gaylord Simpson

expressed by Plato, for example, when
he said in The Republic, “We shall let
the heavenly bodies alone, if it is our
design to become really acquainted
with astronomy.” In other words the
essence of things was believed to reside
in a philosophical ideal, and observation
of real phenomena was considered not
only unnecessary but also positively
wrong. Some ﬁve centuries after Plato,
Ptolemy again formalized the Greek
way and helped to embed it in Western
thought for another 1500 years when
he said that the goal of astronomy was
“to demonstrate that all heavenly phe-
nomena are produced by uniform circu-
lar motion.” Now, that is not physically
true, and Ptolemy knew that it was not.
He was explicit that his intention was
not to explore physical reality. The
early astronomers’ only gestures toward
reality were attempts to “save the ap-
pearances,” that is, to try to eliminate
obvious contradictions without aban-
doning their a priori philosophical ideals,
such as that of uniform circular motion.
“Saving the appearances” was a euphe-
mism for saving the philosophical postu-
lates. Facts were not to be explained,
but to be explained away.

Science was born when a few think-
ers decided that appearances were
something not to be saved but to be
respected. Those hardy souls—Coper-
nicus, Galileo, and Kepler were among

SCIENCE

them—eventually abandoned the Greek
way of deciding how things ought to be
and gave us our way of observing how
in fact things are. Deﬁnitions of science
may differ in other respects, but to have
any validity they must include this
point: the basis of science is observa-
tion. This may be expressed and applied
in different ways. Francis Bacon, a close
contemporary of Kepler, had a concept
of science as gathering all possible ob-
servations and then deriving from them
generalizations and laws by induction,
in accordance with an elaborate system
rooted in Scholastic logic. It has often
been pointed out that Bacon’s system
does not really work and has not been
followed by any successful scientist
(Bacon himself was not one). Neverthe-
less his respect for observation and his
operational approach to science are
among the points in which his inﬂuence
has been profound and beneﬁcial.

The Deﬁnition of Science

Thinking of science in terms of meth-
ods came more and more into vogue
with the scientiﬁc triumphs of the 19th
century and science’s great acceleration
into the 20th. Indeed one still, although
now less frequently, hears of teaching
the scientiﬁc method, as if science were
a set routine applicable to any subject.
That tendency reached a climax with
Karl Pearson and others a generation
or so ago. The scientiﬁc method was
sometimes formalized as involving six
successive operations.

1) A problem is stated.

2) Observations relevant to the prob-
lem are collected.

3) A hypothetical solution of the
problem consistent with the observa-
tions is formulated.

4) Predictions of other observable
phenomena are deduced from the hy-
pothesis.

5) Occurrence or nonoccurrence of
the predicted phenomena is observed.

6) The hypothesis is accepted, modi-
ﬁed, or rejected in accordance with the
degree of fulﬁllment of the predictions.

81

 




There is no question that such a cut-
and-dried method does work in partic-
ular instances, or that each of the six
operations is essential in various phases
of scientiﬁc research. Nevertheless, the
formulation fails as an overall charac-
terization of science. It is not a deﬁni-
tion; it says nothing of the goals or the
nature of science. Its implication of a
general r0utine that automatically solves
any scientiﬁc problem is false. It quite
ignores the most difﬁcult, most creative,
and most important elements of scien-
tiﬁc endeavor. How does one discern a
problem, or decide what kinds of ques-
tions are to be asked? How does one
determine what observations are rele-
vant? And especially, what kind of
hypothetical solutions are acceptable
and where do they come from? Perhaps
the most cogent objection of all is that
important basic research has seldom
really followed the “method” just as
it is stated.

In our own days James Conant has
strongly criticized that kind of formula-
tion and has proposed a new deﬁnition
of science and another characterization
of its methods. His deﬁnition is: “An
interconnected series of concepts and
conceptual schemes that have developed
as a result of experimentation and ob-
servation and are fruitful of further
experimentation and observation.” He
characterizes scientiﬁc method as com-
prising: “(l) speculative general ideas,
(2) deductive reasoning, and (3) experi-
mentation.” Like all brief statements on
any subject, these are ambiguous and
incomplete outside of the expanded
context given them by the author. The
deﬁnition, taken by itself, does not de-
ﬁne. If reread, it will be found to apply
perfectly to the work of Picasso, for
example, and although Picasso’s work
is certainly creative and great it is with
equal certainty not science. Of course
Conant’s point is to emphasize the
dynamic, ongoing nature of science.
That is a characteristic of the most im-
portant scientiﬁc investigations, but dy-
namism is not conﬁned to science and
does not characterize all of science.

Conant may also be too hard on his
predecessors. His summary of scientiﬁc
method is freer, more impressionistic,
than the earlier formulation and to that
extent more nearly covers the varied
gambits of research. It is not, however,
contradictory, and in some respects it is
less complete or explicit. It starts with
the formulation of the hypothesis, the
third step of the earlier summary, and
its other two steps are essentially the

82

fourth and ﬁfth. The sixth step is not
eliminated but is simply taken for grant-
ed and not stated.

The main virtue of Conant’s formu-
lation is its recognition of the role of
speculation, intuition, or just plain
hunch in ﬁnding a hypothesis. It ignores
the fact that some observation inevita-
bly precedes the speculation, and both
formulations fail to note that observa—
tion (whether of nature or of an ex-
periment) always is the ﬁrst step in any
scientiﬁc investigation. No one ever had
a hunch that was not about something
—in the case of science, about possible
relationships among facts already
known.

Conant makes the essential point that

the aim of science is to seek and verify
general ideas, relationships, and inter-
connections among phenomena. Obvi-
ously science has nothing to do and
cannot exist if phenomena have not, in
fact, been observed, but there science
begins, not ends. It follows that al-
though the observation of facts or mem-
orization of data is a necessary basis
and accomplishment of science, that in
itself is not science. Science, truly to be
such, must center not on descriptions
and names but on principles—that is,
generalizations, theories, relationships,
interconnections, explanations about
and among the facts.
. A second point often left implicit but
requiring meticulous attention is that
the materials of science are literally
material. The observations of science
are of material, physically or objectively
observable phenomena. Its relationships
are material, natural relationships. This
is not to say that science necessarily
denies the existence of nonmaterial or
supernatural relationships, but only that,
whether or not they exist, they are not
the business of science. This requires,
if you like, a measure of self-discipline
among scientists, a recognition that their
methods do not work properly in the
absence of this restriction.

The third feature that distinguishes
science from other ﬁelds of thought
and of activity is that it is self-testing
by the same kinds of observations from
which it arises and to which it applies.
It is, to use a currently popular but
perhaps overworked bit of jargon, a
cybernetic system with a feedback that
in spite of oscillations keeps its orienta-
tion as nearly as may be toward reality.
That is the point of the deductive phase
stressed by both Pearson and Conant
as well as by almost all other modern
writers on scientiﬁc method, although

in fact formal deduction is not invaria-
bly involved in scientiﬁc self-correction.
On that more must be said, but here we
have reached a point. where another at-
tempt to deﬁne science is in order.

One way to approach deﬁnition is to
consider science as a. process of ques-
tioning and answering. The questions
are, by deﬁnition, scientiﬁc if they are
about relationships among observed
phenomena. The proposed answers
must, again by deﬁnition, be in natural
terms and testable in some material
way. On that basis, a deﬁnition of sci-
ence as a whole would be: Science is an
exploration of the material universe
that seeks natural, orderly relationships
among observed phenomena and that is
self-testing. We may well add, but not
as part of a deﬁnition, that the best
answers are theories that apply to a
wide range of phenomena, that are sub-
ject to extensive tests and that are sug-
gestive of further questions. It is such
theories that contribute most to the on-
going aspect of science so properly
stressed by Conant. Nevertheless, most
scientiﬁc endeavor has more limited ob-
jectives, and some endeavor, even
though scientiﬁc by deﬁnition, has no
evident sequel.

The Straying Physical Sciences

It is noteworthy that almost all studies
of the philosophy and methods of sci-
ence have referred primarily to the
physical sciences. That is in part be-
cause the physical sciences do have a
primacy—not, I insist, logically but his—
torically. The ﬁrst sciences, as we now
strictly deﬁne science, were physical
sciences. That was at a time when sci-
entists considered themselves to be also,
or even primarily, philosophers, and in-
deed “natural philosophy” was long
synonymous with “physics.” The tradi-
tion has persisted. It has been reinforced
by the reductionist half—truth (of which
more later) that all phenomena are ulti-
mately explicable in strictly physical
terms. Another factor has been the
prestige accruing from the thorough
and more obvious impingement of the
physical sciences on daily life through
technology. It is also possible that more
of the most brilliant and thoughtful
minds have gone into the physical sci-
ences; I prefer not to think so, but I
suspect there is some truth in that.

The point here is that most consider-
ations of the history, methods, and. na-
ture of science have been heavily biased

SCIENCE, VOL. 139

 




by concentration on physical science
and not on science as a whole. That has
been notably true of concepts of sci-
entiﬁc laws, of predictability, of the
testing of hypotheses, and of causality.
Francis Bacon warned, “Though there
are many things in nature which are
singular and unmatched, yet it [the
human understanding] devises for them
parallels and conjugates and relatives
which do not exist.” Nineteenth-century
physicists did not heed his warning.
They refused to consider the unique ob-
ject or event and assumed that all
phenomena could be reduced to sup—
posedly invariable and universal laws
such as the gas laws or the law of gravi-
tation. It followed that, once a law was
known, its consequences could be fully
predicted. The consequences deduced
from a hypothesis became predictions
as to what would happen if an experi-
ment were performed, and that is the
pertinent test embodied in Pearson’s,
and still in Conant’s (and many
others’), descriptions of scientiﬁc meth-
od. It further followed—or the physical
scientists thought it did—~that when a
law successfully predicted an event, the
law explained the event as a result and
speciﬁed its causes.

Here we in the 20th century have
seen something curious and indeed al—
'most comic happen. Physicists have
found that some, at least, of their laws
are not invariable; that their predictions
are statistical and not precise; that some
observations cannot in fact be made;
and that absolute conﬁrmation. by test-
ing of a hypothesis therefore cannot
be obtained. Many have gone further
and concluded that causality is mean-
ingless and even that order in nature——
the last scientiﬁc relic of our Greek
heritage—has disappeared. That is, of
course, the so—called scientiﬁc revolu-
tion wrought by quantum theory and
the principle of indeterminacy. The
physicists’ reactions to this (even in
my very limited knowledge of them)
ran the gamut from reason to hysteria.
Some—Bridgman is a sad example——
found science coming apart in their
hands, further scientiﬁc knowledge im—
possible, and the universe and existence
itself left wholly meaningless. Others,
such as Jeans, also accepted the whole
idea of orderlessness and acausality but,
with almost mystical glee, likened the
release from physical law to release
from prison. Still others, with Schrod-
inger, have had what seems both the
most mature and the most scientiﬁc re-
action: they have concluded that the

11 JANUARY 1963

physicists have failed somewhere and
that there must be some rational way
to get over the diﬂiculty.

The aspect that I spoke of as almost
comic is this: well before the “revolu-
tion” life scientists had observed that
laws, in the rigid 19th-century con-
ception of physics, do not apply to
many phenomena in nature. Further,
they knew that prediction (not the
only way of testing hypotheses) is com-
monly statistical and no less scientiﬁc
or conﬁrmatory of a hypothesis for all
that. They knew that this is no con-
tradiction of the orderliness of nature,
and they discerned that only an un-
necessarily restricted concept of causal-
ity is affected. The “revolution” was a
revolution only for those who had in-
sisted that everything must be explained
ultimately in terms of classical phys-
ics—and where were there ever any
real grounds for such a narrow View of
science? It is true that understanding
of statistical law and polymodal causal-
ity had crept over the life scientists
gradually, so that the impact of these
concepts was not seen as revolutionary.
It is also true that not many biologists
are given to exploring the philosophical
implications of their science. There was
therefore little really clear discussion “of
causality in biology before that by
Ernst Mayr in 1961.

Self-Testing in Science

A fundamental, though not a suffi-
cient, criterion of the self—testability of
science is repeatability. Norman Camp-
bell’s deﬁnition of science as “the study
of those judgments concerning which
universal agreement can be obtained”
emphasizes this point. That is indeed
not so much a deﬁnition of science as
of its ﬁeld and its connection with re-
ality. Campbell’s meaning is that the
data of science are observations that
can be repeated by any normal per-
son. That is as true of, say, the ob-
servation of a fossil tooth under a
microscope as it is of the height of
mercury in a tube in Torricelli’s fa-
mous experiment, or of more recent ob-
servations of protein separation by
chromatography and electrophoresis.
Illusion, even to the point of hallucina-
tion, is always a, possibility, but it is
one that can be eliminated for all prac-
tical purposes by repetition of observa-
tions, especially by different observers
and different methods. It is also true
that unique events occur, but evidence

on them is acceptable if there is con-
ﬁdence that anyone in a position to
observe them would have observed
them.

In what used to be called the exact
sciences, which have turned out not
to be so exact, it was formerly as-
sumed that uniform phenomena had
absolute constants measurable to any
degree of accuracy. As a very simple
example, the length and period of a
pendulum were assumed to have an
inﬁnitely exact and determinable value.
It now appears that this is not neces-
sarily true, and that is one of the dis—
coveries that so upset the physical sci-
entists. But in the actual practice of
observation it has always been evident
that inﬁnitely exact measurement is im-
possible. All that repetition and instru-
mental reﬁnement can do is to generate
a degree of conﬁdence that a measure-
ment (at any given time and under
given conditions) lies within a certain
range. Inference from the observation
takes into account the size of the range
and the degree of conﬁdence. The con-
clusion that even in principle the range
cannot be inﬁnitely small and conﬁ-
dence inﬁnitely great makes no differ-
ence operationally, at least.

It is further true that with many
phenomena the whole point of obser-
vation is not an exact measurement or
determination of occurrence but estab—
lishment (again to some degree of con-
ﬁdence) of a probability. The classical
example is the tossing of a coin, and
here the. biologists’ point is that we do
not expect the probability of throwing
heads to be exactly one—half. As mod-
ern scientists and not ancient Greeks, we
are examining real, objective coins and
not the Platonic idea of a coin. By re-
peated observation of a real coin, we
can establish a high degree of conﬁdence
that the probability is in a certain
range. If the range is large, it is likely
to include the probability of one-half,
but if the range is made small it is likely
to exclude that a priori ideal. Analogous
phenomena are very common in bi—
ology. For example, we do not expect
an expanding population of ﬂies to
spread according to an exact law. We
expect only to achieve conﬁdence that
the rate will be within a certain range of
probability, or to construct a frequency
distribution of rates. Discovery that
Boyle’s “law” has the same probabilistic
nature neither surprises nor upsets us.
We would expect it, because the mole-
cules of gas, like the ﬂies, are real in-
dividuals which, however alike they are

83

 




in other respects, have had different
histories. The Greeks could, but a sci-
entist cannot, be concerned with the
ideal gas of classical physics. Perhaps
the revolution in physics was only the
ﬁnal severing of the umbilical cord
from ancient Greece.

The most widespread and conclusive
process of self-testing in science is test-
ing by multiplication of relevant obser-
vations. In the natural sciences it is
impossible to prove anything in the ab-
solute sense of, for example, a proof in
mathematics. Multiplication of obser-
vations can only increase our conﬁdence
within a narrowing range of probability.
If conﬁdence becomes sufﬁciently great
and the range is encompassed by the
hypothesis, we begin to call the hy-
pothesis a theory, and we accept it and
go on from there. The test, is of course,
whether the range of probability is in
fact within the scope of the hypoth-
esis—in other words, whether the
observations are consistent with the
hypothesis.

A key word in the expression “mul-
tiplication of relevant observations” is
relevant. The simplest deﬁnition is that
relevant observations are those that
could disprove the hypothesis, for dis-
proof is often possible even though
absolute proof is not. The more obser-
vations fail to disprove a hypothesis,
the greater the conﬁdence in it. Predic—
tion in the classical sense is a special
case of that general procedure. From
the hypothesis consequences are de-
duced such that their failure to occur
would disprove the hypothesis. Of
course their occurrence would not
prove anything; it would only increase
conﬁdence. That this is in fact a spe-
cial case and not the touchstone of
scientiﬁc theory is easy to demonstrate.
Again, examples are more familiar to
biological than to physical scientists, al-
though they occur in both ﬁelds. The
most striking example is the most im-
portant of all biological theories: that
of organic evolution. Although some
quite limited predictions can be de-
duced from the theory, the theory was
not in fact established by prediction
and is not sufﬁciently tested by it. An
enormous number of observations enor-
mously varied in kind are all consistent
with this theory, and many of them are
consistent with no other theory that has
been proposed. We therefore can and,
if we are rational, must have an ex-
tremely high degree of conﬁdence in
the theory-———higher than legitimate con-

84

ﬁdence in many things we call “facts”
in daily life. That kind of nonpredictive
testing most commonly occurs in ﬁelds
that have a temporal or historical ele-
ment, such as evolution among the bi-
ological sciences or the time-linked
processes in geology among the physical
sciences. In fact a neglected historical
component also affects many physical
laws, as in the example of the histories
of the individual molecules in a gas.

Science and Reality

In discussing the nature and basic
procedures of science I have been quite
free in using such expressions as “re-
ality,” “phenomena, the material uni-
verse,” and so on. Philosophers have
long since pointed out, and philo-
sophical scientists are still worried by,
the fact that the very existence of such
a thing as objective reality is uncertain.
I have already referred to Bridgman’s
despairing conclusion that “the very
concept of existence becomes meaning-
less.” In The Scientiﬁc Outlook Ber-
trand Russell has discussed this matter
more optimistically if equally incon-
clusively. He points out (in more and
different words) that what we call ob-
serving a phenomenon is in fact only
sensing certain events that occur to and
within ourselves. For example, when we
think we have seen something, we know
only the event that light quanta of cer-
tain energies and patterns impinged on
our retinas and produced other events
in our nervous system. The object we
think we saw “remains veiled in mys-
tery.” Russell asks ﬁnally, “Are circum-
stances ever such as to enable us, from
a set of known events [for example,
those in our nervous system] to infer
that some other event [for example, the
material existence of what we think we
see] has occurred, is occurring, or will
occur?” He concludes, “I do not know
of any clear answer. . . . Until an an-
swer is forthcoming, one way or
another, the question must remain an
open one, and our faith in the external
world must be merely animal faith.”

Now, some feel that this is nonsense
and that sensible people will not waste
time on it. Whether or not there really
is an external world, we certainly have
to act as if there were, so we may as
well ignore the question. Indeed I shall
not here spend much time on it, but it
has bothered many scientists, so it does
seem worth while to point out that

9’ 64

there is an answer. In fact there are
several. Russell himself has provided
one, apparently unwittingly, although
it is dangerous to assume that he is ever
unwitting. His example of what he
calls the “known events” includes light
from the sun bouncing off a man
named Jones and then entering the
eye. “Jones himself” may still be
“wrapped in mystery,” as Russell says,
but evidently something happened out
there. The faith required is not that
“out there” exists, but that what hap-
pens “in here” contains some informa-
tion about it. Such an answer obviously
does not supply a philosophical abso—
lute, but it should satisfy a scientist’s
more modest demand for reasonable
conﬁdence.

Norman Campbell has pointed out
that the fact that others demonstrably
receive the same sensations as we do
from the same stimuli is evidence that
the outer world does exist. That is the
basis for his remark, quoted earlier, on
the obtainability of universal agreement
in [observational aspects of] science. It
is also evidence that the stimuli are
structured—that is, do convey informa-
tion. Again a philosopher may quibble
and say that the reactions of others
have no bearing if the others are not
really there, but a scientist will gain
another degree of conﬁdence.

Still another consideration seems to
me the most interesting of all, and yet
I have never seen it clearly expressed
elsewhere. It is, in a sense, a validation
of the “animal faith” given by Russell
(after Santayana) in the passage quoted
earlier, as sole basis for assuming that
we really can obtain knowledge of the
outer world. The fact is that man origi—
nated by a slow process of evolution
guided by natural selection. At every
stage in this long progression our an-
cestors necessarily had adaptive reac-
tions to the world around them. As be—
havior and sense organs became more
complex, perception of sensations from
those organs obviously maintained a
realistic relationship to the environ-
ment. To put it crudely but graphically,
the monkey who did not have a realistic
perception of the tree branch he jumped
for was soon a dead monkey—and
therefore did not become one of our
ancestors. Our perceptions do give true,
even though not complete, representa-
tions of the outer world because that
was and is a biological necessity, built
into us by natural selection. If it were
not so, we would not be here! We do

SCIENCE, VOL. 139

 




now reach perceptions for which our
ancestors had no need, for example of
x-rays or electrical potentials, but we
do so by translating them into mo-
dalities that are evolution—tested.

Biological Nature of Science

That is one of the several senses in
which science itself, as a whole, is fun—
damentally biological. A second sense
in which that is true is involved in
another point that has lately been
bothering the physicists. The point is
that whenever a scientist observes any-
thing he is himself part of the system
in which the observing takes place.
He therefore should not assume that
what he observes would be exactly the
same if he were not observing it. But
he cannot very well observe what hap-
pens when he is not observing! There-
fore, the argument runs (but person-
ally I do not run with it), there is no
such thing as objective knowledge, and
the goals of science are wholly de-
lusive. Some atomic physicists say this
does not matter as far as the man-
sized world is concerned but matters

only when you get down to their in-
visible, but all too obviously not imagi-
nary, objects of study. Yet I really do
not see Why size matters in principle.
In either case the system actually ob-

served contains something alive—to
Wit (as a minimum), the observer.
Surely it would never occur to anyone
but an atomic physicist that because a
system includes something alive it
cannot be properly studied!

To suppose that study, to be ob-
jective, should exclude the observer
is as unrealistic as Plato. Science is
man’s exploration of his universe, and
to exclude himself even in principle is
certainly not objective realism—unless
you insist that his inclusion is subjec-
tive by deﬁnition, but that would be
merely playing with words. And to say
that we cannot learn anything mate-
rially factual about a situation if we
ourselves are in it is utter and non-
sensical negation of the very meaning
of learning. The essential in objectivity
is not the pretense of eliminating our-
selves from a situation in which we are
objectively present. It is that the sit-
uation should not be interpreted in
terms of ourselves but that our roles
should be interpreted realistically in
terms of the situation. To a biologist
the discovery (to call it such) that every

1 1 , JANUARY 1963

system observed includes the observer
has quite a simple meaning. It merely
means that all systems in science have
a biological component.

There is another, related sense in
which all science is partly biological.
It is all carried on by human beings,
a species of animal. It is in fact a
part of animal behavior, and an in-
creasingly important part of the species-
speciﬁc behavior of Homo sapiens.
From the functional point of View,
it is a means of adapting to the environ-
ment. It is now, especially through its
operating arm, technology, the princi-
pal means of biological adaptation for
civilized man. It is an evolutionary spe-
cialization that arose from more primi-
tive, prescientiﬁc means of cultural
adaptation, which in turn had arisen from
still more primitive, prehuman behav-
ioral adaptation. I recently had occa-
sion to point out to some ethnologists
that culture in general is biological
adaptation and that they could resolve
some of their squabbles and ﬁnd the
common theoretical basis that eludes
them if they would just study culture
from this point of View. The suggestion
was not well received, but it is true
just the same. Some thought I was
being a racist and some thought I
was being a social Darwinian, both
quite rightly pejorative epithets in
ethnological circles. Of course I was
being neither one. I was just being a
biologist drawing attention to the really
quite obvious fact that culture is a bio-
logical phenomenon. That is true, in
heightened degree, of the special aspect
of culture we call science.

Flight from Teleology

As Gillispie has admirably shown in
his book The Edge of Objectivity, the
rise of science, in the strictest modern
sense of the word, centered around in-
creasing insistence on objectivity. It
now seems clear that in some instances
that insistence went too far. I have
noted that some scientists reached the
unnecessary and, in the last analysis,
absurd position that complete objectiv-
ity would exclude the observer. Since
exclusion of the observer is obviously
impossible in the practice of science,
scientists who held that View, as we
have seen, tended either to fall into
despair or to revert to various more or
less covert forms of idealism. I have
here maintained that this was an un-

necessary casualty and that the con-
cept of objectivity essential to science
is saved by recognition that scientiﬁc
objectivity has a biological component.
A related casualty that was almost in-
evitable in the struggle to develop mod—
ern science involves the concept of
teleology.

The doctrine of ﬁnal cause, of the
end’s determining the means, was
another essential element in Greek
thought, which was anthropomorphic
in a truly primitive way. This doctrine
was probably an inevitable outcome of
introspective and deductive philosophy.
Rational human actions are largely ex—
plicable by their purpose, by the results
they are expected to produce. It there-
fore seemed logical to conclude that
the orderly intricacy of the world at
large was in a similar way purposeful
and governed by a foreseen end. Such
concepts were particularly important
to Aristotle, and through his works
they came to be held as almost axio-
matic in the western European milieu
in which science ﬁnally arose. The
broadly philosophical position was that
things exist, or events occur, as pre-
requisites of their results, and that the
result, as ﬁnal cause, is the real prin-
ciple of explanation. In more popular
form, this View led to the belief that
nature exists only for and in relation
to man, considered as the ultimate pur-
pose of creation or the overriding ﬁnal
cause.

As physical science became more
objective, it was apparent that tele-
ology, even if not rejected as a philos-
ophy, had to be ignored as a means of
scientiﬁc explanation. The scientist, as
such, asked “What?” or “How?” about
phenomena such as gravity or gas pres-
sure, not “Why?” or “What for?” De—
scription of how things fall, in terms
of masses, distances, and gravitational
constants, is clearly scientiﬁc, but the
question, “What do things fall for?”
seems unscientiﬁc. It elicits no objec-
tively testable answers. It was thus in—
evitable that the strictest scientiﬁc atti-
tude should endeavor to exclude any
form of teleology, and in the physical
sciences there seemed to be no great
difﬁculty in excluding it. One could, at
least, readily evade teleology by ascrib-
ing physical laws to a ﬁrst rather than
a ﬁnal cause, although even here the
usual philosophical or theological belief
continued to be that natural laws exist
in order to make the world a suitable
habitat for man.

85

 




In the biological sciences the elimi-
nation or even the brushing aside of
crude teleology was incomparably more
difﬁcult, and that is a principal reason
why a fully scientiﬁc biology lagged so
far behind a scientiﬁc physics. It is not
necessary or perhaps even possible to
see any immediate, inherent purpose
in a stone’s falling, but it is quite in-
evitable that an animal’s seeking its
food should be interpreted in terms of
purpose or, at least, of an end served.
All organisms are clearly adapted to
live where and how they in fact live,
and adapted in the most extraordinary,
thoroughgoing, and complex ways. In
fact they plainly have the adaptations
in order to live as they do. The ques-
tion, then, is how those key words in
order to are to be interpreted. Until a
century or so ago it occurred to very
few naturalists to interpret them in any
but the classical teleological way. For
example, to Cuvier, high priest of nat-
ural history in the early 19th century,
the validity of fully Aristotelian tele-
ology seemed self-evident, and it was
the heart of his theoretical, system.
Cuvier went all the way to a man-
centered teleological conception of the
universe. He could think of no better
reason for the existence of ﬁshes——
which he considered poor things, even
to the watery, unromantic nature of
their amours—than that they provide
food for man. That was also the period
in England of Paley’s Natural Theology
and, later, of the Bridgewater Treatises
“on the power, wisdom, and goodness
of God, as manifested in the crea-
tion”———that is to say, on Christian tele-
ology as a necessary and sufﬁcient ex-
planation of nature, and most particu-
larly of animate nature.

The facts of adaptation are facts, and
the purposeful aspect of organisms is
incontrovertible. Even if the explana-
tion offered by Aristotelian, and much
later by what was then orthodox Chris-
tian, teleology were true, that would
deﬁnitely be an article of faith and not
of objectively testable science. Thus it
was necessary either to conclude that
there is no scientiﬁc explanation of
organic adaptation or to provide an
acceptable, testable hypothesis that was
scientiﬁc. Before Darwin most biologists
accepted the ﬁrst alternative, which
(although few of them realized this
fact) meant quite simply that there
~- could be no such thing as a fully scien-
tiﬁc biology. It was Darwin, more than
any other one person, who supplied

86

the second alternative. In The Origin
of Species he made no entirely clear
distinction between establishing the fact
that evolution has occurred and pro-
posing a theory as to how natural proc—
esses could produce organic adaptation.
He has therefore been accused of un-
necessarily confusing two issues that
should have been kept quite separate,
but that was not really the case. Evolu-
tion itself becomes a nonscientiﬁc issue
if the explanation of adaptation in the
course of evolution is left in the ﬁeld
of metaphysics, philosophy, and theol-
ogy. Darwin really went to the heart of
the matter with unerring insight. Ex-
planation of adaptation was the key
point, and Darwin demonstrated, at
the very least, that a natural, objective
explanation of adaptation is a rational
possibility and a legitimate scientiﬁc
goal. That, at long last, made biology
a true and complete science.

Darwin fully respected the appear-
ances and made no attempt to save
them by explaining them away. The
hand of man, for example, is made for
grasping. Darwin said so, and then pro-
vided a natural scientiﬁc explanation
for the fact. He thus did not ignore

the teleological aspects of nature but

brought them into the domain of
science. Some of Darwin’s contempo-
raries and immediate successors recog-
nized that fact by redeﬁning teleology
as the study of adaptation and by point-
ing out that Darwin had substituted a
scientiﬁc teleology for a philosophical
or theological one. The redeﬁnition did
not take. The older meanings of the
word teleology were ineradicable, and
they brought a certain scientiﬁc (al-
though not necessarily philosophical)
disrepute to the whole subject.

The physical scientists had earlier,
and more completely, evaded the issues
of classical teleology. By the end of the
19th century, if not before, it had be-
come for them virtually a dogma that a
scientist simply must not ask, “What
for?” Physical scientists considered the
question as applied to natural phe-
nomena either completely meaningless
or, at best, unanswerable in scientiﬁc
terms. Such was the priority and pri-
macy of the physical sciences that this
position even came to be widely con-
sidered a necessary qualiﬁcation of truly
scientiﬁc endeavor, part of the deﬁni—
tion of science. That led in turn to a
very curious development that was at
its height in the 1920’s and is still ex-
erting a strong but now more clandes-

tine effect. Many biologists threw out
the baby with the bath water. In seek-
ing to get rid of nonscientiﬁc teleology
they decided to throw out all the quite
real and scientiﬁc problems that tele-
ology had attempted to solve.

That took several different forms.
One form in evolutionary studies was
the mutationist belief that organisms do
not become adapted to a way of life
but simply adopt the way of life that
their characteristics, originating at ran-
dom, make possible. Another form was
behaviorism, which also, in essence,
sought to eliminate adaptation as a
scientiﬁc problem by refusing to con-
sider behavior as motivated, as goal-
directed, or even as serving needs (and
hence in some sense having purpose)
in the organism as a whole. Behavior-
ism strove to be primarily descriptive,
and what explanatory element was ad-
mitted was meant to be conﬁned to
consideration of the physiological sub-
strates and concomitants of the be-
havior described. It is that latter as-
pect that still inﬂuences a considerable
segment of opinion in biology, conﬁning
biological explanation to the physicist’s
question, “How?” and eschewing “What
for?” This attitude, still strongly held
in some quarters, involves the idea that
scientiﬁc explanation must be reduction-
ist, reducing all phenomena ultimately
to the physical and the chemical. In
application to biology, that leads to the
quite extraordinary proposition that liv-
ing organisms should be studied as test-
tube reactions and that their being alive
should enter into the matter as little as
possible. As behaviorism omits the
psyche from psychology, so this form
of reductionism omits the bios from
biology.

Explanation in Biology

Those tendencies were unquestion-
ably salutary in some respects. They
have helped to eliminate the last ves-
tiges of pre-Darwinian teleology from
biology. They have also helped to coun-
teract vitalistic, metaphysical, and mys-
tical ideas which, whatever one may
think of them in their own sphere, are
completely stultifying as principles of
scientiﬁc explanation. Here, however,
the reductionist tendency has been two-
edged. By seeming to negate the very
possibility of scientiﬁc explanation of
purposive aspects of life, it has en-
couraged some biologists, who insist that

SCIENCE. VOL.\139

 




such aspects nevertheless exist, to seek
explanations quite outside the legitimate
ﬁeld of science. Naming of names is
perhaps invidious, but to show that I
am here setting up no straw man I will
just mention Teilhard de Chardin in
Europe and Sinnott in the United
States.

The reaction went much too far. It
went so far as to falsify the very nature
of biology and of science through
supine acceptance of a dictum that all
science is in essence physical science.
In fact, the life sciences are not only
muchV-inore complicated than the physi-
cal sciences, they are also much broader
in signiﬁcance, and they penetrate much
farther into the exploration of the uni-
verse that is science than do the physi-
cal sciences. They require and embrace
the data and all the explanatory princi-
ples of the physical sciences and then go
far beyond that to embody many other
data and additional explanatory prin-
ciples that are no less—that are, in a
sense, even more—scientiﬁc.

This can be expressed, as Mayr, Pit-
tendrigh, and others have expressed it,
in terms of kinds of scientiﬁc explana-
tions and kinds of questions that elicit
them. “How?” is the typical question
in the physical sciences. There it is often
the only meaningful or allowable one.
It must also always be asked in biology,
and the answers can often be put in
terms of the physical sciences. That is
one kind of scientiﬁc explanation, a re-
ductionist one as applied to biological
problems: “How is heredity trans-
mitted?” “How do muscles contract?”
and so on through the whole enormous
gamut of modern biophysics and bio-
chemistry. But biology can and must
go on from there. Here, “What for?”—
the dreadful teleological question—not
only is legitimate but also must even-
tually be asked about every vital phe-
nomenon. In organisms, but not (in the
same sens-e) in any nonliving matter,
adaptation does occur. Heredity and
muscle contraction do serve functions
that are useful to organisms. They are
not explained, in this aspect, by such
answers to “How?” as that heredity is
transmitted by DNA or that energy is
released in the Krebs cycle.

In biology, then, a second kind of
explanation must be added to the ﬁrst
or reductionist explanation made in
terms of physical, chemical, and me-
chanical principles. This second form
of explanation, which can be called
compositionist in contrast with reduc-

11 JANUARY 1963

tionist, is in terms of the adaptive use-
fulness of structures and processes to
the whole organism and to the species
of which it is a part, and still further, in
terms of ecological function in the com-
munities in which the species occurs.
It is still scientiﬁcally meaningful to
say that, for instance, a lion has its
thoroughgoing adaptations to predation
because they maintain the life of the
lion, the continuity of its species, and
the economy of its communities.

Such statements exclude the grosser,
man-centered forms of teleology, but
they still do not necessarily exclude a
more impersonal philosophical tele-
ology. A further question is necessary:
“How does the lion happen to have
these adaptive characteristics?” or, more
generally and more colloquially, “How
come?” This is another question that is
usually inappropriate and does not
necessarily elicit scientiﬁc answers as
regards strictly physical phenomena.
In biology it is both appropriate and
necessary, and Darwin showed that it
can here elicit truly scientiﬁc answers,
which embody those that go before.
The fact that the lion’s characteristics
are adaptive for lions has caused them
to be favored by natural selection, and
this in turn has caused them to be em—
bodied in the DNA code of lion hered-
ity. That statement, which of course
summarizes a large body of more de—
tailed information and principle, com—
bines answers to all three questions:
not only “How?” and “What for?” but
also “How come?” Always in biology
but not invariably in the physical sci-
ences, a full explanation ultimately in-
volves a historical—that is, an evolu-
tionary—factor.

Here I should brieﬂy clarify a point
of possible confusion. Insistence that the
study of organisms requires principles
additional to those of the physical sci-
ences does not imply a dualistic or
vitalistic View of nature. Life. or the
particular manifestation of it that we
call mind, is not thereby necessarily
considered as nonphysical or nonma-
terial. It is just that living things have
been affected for upward of 2 billion
years by historical processes that are
in themselves completely material but
that do not affect nonliving matter,
or at least do not affect it in the same
way. Matter that was affected by these
processes became, for that reason, liv-
ing, and matter not so affected remained
nonliving. The results of those processes
are systems different in kind from any

nonliving systems and almost incom-
parably more complicated. They are
not for that reason necessarily any less
material or less physical in nature. The
point is that all known material proc-
esses and explanatory principles apply
to organisms, while only a limited num-
ber of them apply to nonliving systems.
And that leads to another point, my
ﬁnal one.

Unity of the Sciences

When science was arising, Francis
Bacon insisted that all its branches
should be incorporated into one body
of fundamental knowledge. Bacon
placed this in an Aristotelian frame-
work really inappropriate for modern
science; he wrote it at a time when one
mind could grasp the essentials, at least,
of all the sciences; and he was not him-
self a practicing scientist. Of course
nowadays, as regards detailed knowl-
edge and adequate research ability,
there is no such thing as a general sci-
entist, a general biologist, or even a
general entomologist. In the practice
and teaching of science, specialization
and the accompanying fragmentation
of the sciences have become absolutely
necessary. Yet this practical necessity
has not eliminated the force and value
of the conception that the universe and
all its individual phenomena form one
grand unit and that there is such a
thing as science, not just a great number
of special and separate sciences.

Bacon further maintained that the
unity of nature would be demonstrated
and the sciences would be incorporated
into one general body by a fundamental
doctrine, a Prima Philosophia, uniting
what is common to all the sciences.
Despite the great change in philo-
SOphical outlook, that has become a
traditional approach to the uniﬁcation
of the sciences. In our own days, Ein-
stein and others have sought uniﬁcation
of scientiﬁc concepts in the form of
principles of increasing generality. The
goal is a connected body of theory that
might ultimately be completely general
in the sense of applying to all material
phenomena.

The goal is certainly a worthy one,
and the search for it has been fruitful.
Nevertheless, the tendency to think of
it as the goal of science or the basis for
uniﬁcation of the sciences has been un- _
fortunate. It is essentially a search for a
least common denominator in science.

87

 




It necessarily and purposely omits much
the greatest part of science, hence can
only falsify the nature of science and
can hardly be the best basis for unify-
ing the sciences. I suggest that both the
characterization of science as a whole
and the uniﬁcation of the various sci-
ences can be most meaningfully sought

in quite the opposite direction, not
through principles that apply to all
phenomena, but through phenomena
to which all principles apply. Even in
this necessarily summary discussion, I
have, I believe, suﬂiciently indicated
what those latter phenomena are: they
are the phenomena of life.

Divergent Reactions to the

Threat of War

A peace and a shelter group were studied to examine

their different responses to the Berlin crisis.

Paul Ekman, Lester Cohen, Rudolf Moos, Walter Raine,
Mary Schlesinger, George Stone

Different proposals for dealing with
the threat of war had been offered and
discussed but generally aroused little
enthusiasm prior to the Berlin crisis.
With the intensiﬁcation of international
tension during the summer and early
fall of 1961 there was a rapid growth
of interest in civil defense measures
and a proliferation of groups concerned
with peace. The desirability of fallout
shelters became a focus of conﬂict. be-
tween proponents of these different ap-
prOaches, and controversy was wide-
spread in Congress, among scientists,
and at a community level. Within one
homogeneous community these diver-
gent viewpoints were expressed in the
nearly simultaneous formation of two
groups, one organized to build a fall-
out shelter, the other to oppose shelters.
We studied these groups in order to un-
derstand the factors which had led
them to adopt such different reactions
to the threat of war.

The two groups that we studied were
formed within the same suburban up-
per middle-class community, about 20
miles from San Francisco (I). This is
a community of about 8000 people
who live in new, single-family dwell-
ings, most of. them built by a single

88

developer in a contemporary architec-
tural style. The ﬁrst to form was the
Organization for Atomic Survival in
Suburbia (OASIS). Its members, who
live fairly close to each other within
the community, planned to build a pri-
vate fallout shelter to accommodate a
maximum of 100 people. A number of
them were also active in promoting a
program for construction of commu-
nity fallout shelters in the public schools.
Members of the second group. People
for Peace, were originally brought to-
gether by their shared opposition to
community shelters. but they described
themselves as advocates of a “positive”
program for peace. not just opponents
of shelters.

People for Peace had 28 members
and OASIS had 26 at the time of the
study. A member was deﬁned as any-
one who attended more than one meet-
ing. There were equal numbers of men
and women in OASIS; there were twice
as many women as men in People for
Peace. Demographic data were similar
for members of the two groups: most
were in their mid-thirties, had more
than one child, had at least ﬁnished col-
lege, and were earning between $10,000
and $15,000 a year. The fact that the

Biology, then, is the science that
stands at the center of all science. It is
the science most directly aimed at
science’s major goal and most deﬁnitive
of that goal. And it is here, in the ﬁeld
where all the principles of all. the sci-
ences are embodied, that science can
truly become uniﬁed.

two groups were demographically simi-
lar, and came from a single small
homogeneous community, enhances the
signiﬁcance of our comparison but also
limits the extent to which our ﬁndings
can be considered representative of
other groups with similar purposes.

Less than a month after they had
formed, these two groups were sepa-
rately approached by a member of our
research team and asked to participate
in a research project. The six mem-
bers of the research team had not
worked together before, nor had any
of us studied problems in the area of
peace and war. We were, and remain,
divided in our beliefs regarding civil
defense and peace groups. These dif-
ferences were purposely made explicit,
and measurement techniques were ar-
rived at jointly in an attempt to coun-
teract the inﬂuence of any one bias.
It was not possible, however, to com-
promise on the appropriate areas of
inquiry. Instead, the domains of be-
havior sampled reﬂected our diverse
hypotheses, stemming from the differ-
ing value orientations of the members
of the research team. The tests covered
attitudes about war and peace, more
general opinions, personal character-
istics. background and life history, and
game and risk-taking behavior. Most
of the tests were speciﬁcally devised
for the study, although some parts were
borrowed from other studies (2).

A member of the research team ob-
served each meeting of the two groups
from October 1961 to February 1962.
In the second week of January 1962,

 

Paul Ekman is assistant professor of psy-
chology, San Francisco State College, and a
research fellow at the University of California
School of Medicine; Lester Cohen is a clinical
psychologist at the Langley Porter Neuro-
psychiatric Institute, San Francisco; Rudolf
Moos is assistant professor in the department
of psychiatry, Stanford University Medical
School; Walter Raine is a clinical psychologist
at the University of California (Los Angeles)
Neuropsychiatric Institute; Mary Schlesinger is
assistant professor of psychology, San Fran—
cisco State College; George Stone is a research
psychologist at the Langley Porter Neuro-
psychiatric Institute.

SCIENCE, VOL. 139

 




BehavioriSm at Fifty

The rapid growth of a scientiﬁc analysis of behavior
calls for a restatement of the philosophy of psychology.

Behaviorism, with an accent on the
last syllable, is not the scientiﬁc study
of behavior but a philosophy of science
concerned with the subject matter and
methods of. psychology. If psychology
is a science of mental 1ife——of the
mind, of conscious experience—then it
must develop and defend a special
methodology, which it has not yet done
successfully. If it is, on the other
hand, a science of the behavior of
organisms, human or otherwise, then it
is part of biology, a natural science for
which tested and highly successful
methods are available. The basic issue
is not the nature of the stuﬂ of which
the world is made, or whether it is made
of one stuff or two, but rather the di-
mensions of the things studied by
psychology and the methods relevant
to them.

Mentalistic or psychic explanations
of human behavior almost certainly
originated in primitive animism. When
a man dreamed of being at a distant
place in» spite of incontrovertible evi-
dence that he had stayed in his bed,
it was easy to conclude that some part
of him had actually left his body. A
particularly vivid memory or a hal-
lucination could be explained in the
same way. The theory of an invisible,
detachable self eventually proved useful
for other purposes. It seemed to ex-
plain unexpected or abnormal episodes,

even to the person behaving in an.

exceptional way because he was thus
“possessed.” It also served to explain
the inexplicable. An organism as com-
plex as man often seems to behave

 

The author is Edgar Pierce
psychology at Harvard University, Cambridge,
Mass. This paper will be published in Behavior~
ism and Phenomenology: Contrasting Bases for
Modern Psychology, T. W. Wann, Ed., by the
University of Chicago Press. It was presented at
a symposium on behaviorism and phenomenology
held at Rice University in March 1963. An
earlier version was given as the R. M. Elliott
lecture at the University of Minnesota in Decem-
ber 1962.

31 MAY 1963

professor of

B. F. Skinner

capriciously. It is tempting to attribute
the visible behavior to another organ-
ism inside—to a little man or homun-
culus. The wishes of the little man
become the acts of the man observed
by his fellows. The inner idea is put
into outer words. Inner feelings ﬁnd
outward expression. The explanation is
satisfying, of course, only so long as
the behavior of the homunculus can be
neglected. I

Primitive origins are not necessarily
to be held against an explanatory prin-
ciple, but the little man is still with us
in relatively primitive form. He was
recently the hero of a television pro-
gram called “Gateways to the Mind,”
one of a series of educational ﬁlms spon-
sored by Bell Telephone Laboratories
and written with the help of a distin-
guished panel of scientists. The Viewer
learned, from animated cartoons, that
when a man’s ﬁnger is pricked, elec-
trical impulses resembling ﬂashes of
lightning run up the afferent nerves and
appear on a television screen in the
brain. The little man wakes up, sees
the ﬂashing screen, reaches out, and
pulls a lever. More ﬂashes of lightning
go down the nerves to the muscles,
which then contract, as the ﬁnger is
pulled away from the threatening
stimulus. The behavior of the homuncu-
lus was, of course, not explained. An
explanation would presumably require
another ﬁlm. And it, in turn, another.

The same pattern of explanation is
invoked when we are told that the
behavior of a delinquent is the result of
a disordered personality, or that the
vagaries of a man under analysis are
due to conﬂicts among his superego,
ego, and id. Nor can we escape from
primitive features by breaking the little
man into pieces and dealing with his
wishes, cognitions, motives, and so on,
bit by bit. The objection is not that
these things are mental but that they

, restatement of

offer no real explanation and stand in
the way of a more effective analysis.
It has been about 50 years since the
behavioristic objection to this practice
was ﬁrst clearly stated, and it has been
about 30 years since it has been very
much discussed. A whole generation
of psychologists has grown up without
really coming into contact with the
issue. Almost all current textbooks
compromise: rather than risk a loss of
adoptions, they deﬁne psychology as
the science of behavior and mental life.
Meanwhile the older View has continued
to receive strong support from areas
in which there has been no comparable
attempt at methodological reform. Dur-
ing this period, however, an effective
experimental science of behavior has
emerged. Much of what it has dis—
covered bears on the basic issue. A
radical behaviorism
would therefore seem to be in order.

Explaining the Mind

A rough history of the idea is not
hard to trace. An occasional phrase in
classic Greek authors which seemed to
foreshadow the point of View need not
be taken seriously. We may also pass
over the early bravado of a La Mettrie
who co'uld shock the philosophical
bourgeoisie by asserting that man was
only a machine. Nor were those who,
for practical reasons, simply preferred
to deal with behavior rather than with
less accessible, but nevertheless ac-
knowledged, mental activities close to
what is meant by behaviorism today.

The entering wedge appears to have
been Darwin’s preoccupation with the
continuity of species. In supporting
the theory of evolution, it was im-
portant to show that man was not
essentially different from the lower ani-
mals—that every human characteristic,
including consciousness and reasoning
powers, could be found in other species.
Naturalists like Romanes began to col-
lect stories which seemed to show that
dogs, cats, elephants, and many other
species were conscious and showed
signs of reasoning. It was Lloyd
Morgan, of course, who questioned
this evidence with his Canon of Parsi-
mony. Were there not other ways of
accounting for what looked like signs
of consciousness or rational powers?
Thorndike’s experiments, at the end
of the 19th century, were in this Vein.
They showed that the behavior of a
cat in escaping from a puzzle box

951

 




might 'seem to show reasoning but could
be explained instead as the result of
simpler processes. Thorndike remained
a mentalist, but he greatly advanced
the objective study of behavior which
had been attributed to mental processes.

The next step was inevitable: if
evidence of consciousness and reason-

ing could be explained in other ways in

animals, why not also in man? And
in that case, what became of psychology
as a science of mental life? It was
John B. Watson who made the ﬁrst
clear, if rather noisy, proposal that
psychology be regarded simply as a
science of behavior. He was not in a
very good position to defend the pro-
posal. He had little scientiﬁc material
to use in his reconstruction. He was
forced to pad his textbook with discus—
sions of the physiology of receptor
systems and muscles, and with physio-
logical theories which were at the
time no more susceptible to proof than
the mentalistic theories they were in—
tended to replace. A need for “media-
tors” of behavior which might serve
as objective alternatives to thought pro-
cesses led him to emphasize subaudible
speech. The notion was intriguing be-
cause one can usually observe oneself
thinking in this way, but it was by no
means an adequate or comprehensive
explanation. He tangled with intro-
spective psychologists by denying the
existence of images. He may well have
been acting in good faith, for it has
been said that he himself did not have
Visual imagery, but his arguments
caused unnecessary trouble. The rela—
tive importance of a genetic endowment
in explaining behavior proved to be
another disturbing digression.

All this made it easy to lose sight of
the central argument—that behavior
which seemed to be the product of
mental activity could be explained in
other ways. In any case, the introspec-
tionists were prepared to challenge it.
As late as 1883 Francis Galton could
write (1): “Many persOns, especially
women and intelligent children, take
pleasure in introspection, and strive
their very best to explain their mental
processes.” But introspection was al-
ready being taken seriously. The con-
cept of a science of mind in which
mental events obeyed mental laws had
led to the development of psycho-
physical methods and to the accumula-
tion of facts which seemed to bar the
extension of the principle of parsimony.
What might hold for animals did not

952

hold for men, because men could see
their mental processes.

Curiously enough, part of the answer
was supplied by the psychoanalysts,
who insisted that although a man might
be able to see some of his mental life,
he could not see all of it. The kind of
thoughts Freud called unconscious took
place without the knowledge of the
thinker. From an association, verbal
slip, or dream it could be shown that a
person must have responded to a pass-
ing stimulus although he could not tell
you that he had done so. More complex
thought processes, including problem
solving and verbal play, could also go
on without the thinker’s knowledge.
Freud had devised, and he never
abandoned faith in, one of the most
elaborate mental apparatuses of all time.
He nevertheless contributed to the be-
havioristic argument by showing that
mental activity did not, at least, require
consciousness. His proofs that thinking
had occurred without introspective re—
cognition were, indeed, clearly in the
spirit of Lloyd Morgan. They were
operational analyses of mental life—
even though, for Freud, only the un-
conscious part of it. Experimental
evidence pointing in the same direction
soon began to accumulate.

But that was not the whole answer.
What about the part of mental life
which a man can see? It is a difﬁcult
question, no matter what one’s point of
View, partly because it raises the ques—
tion of what “seeing” means and partly
because the events seen are private. The
fact of privacy cannot, of course, be
questioned. Each person is in special
contact with a small part of the uni-
verse enclosed within his own skin. To
take a noncontroversial example, he is
uniquely subject to certain kinds of
proprioceptive and interoceptive stimu-
lation. Though two people may in
some sense be said to see the same light
or hear the same sound, they cannot
feel the same distension of a bile duct
or the same bruised muscle. (When
privacy is invaded with scientiﬁc instru-
ments, the form of stimu1ation is
changed; the scales read by the scientist
are not the private events themselves.)

Mentalistic psychologists insist that
there are other kinds of events uniquely
accessible to the owner of the skin
within which they occur which lack the
physical dimensions of proprioceptive
or interoceptive stimuli. They are as
different from physical events as colors
are from wavelengths of light. There

, human bodies

 

. a... .,_. ; .

are even better reasons, therefore, why
two people cannot suffer each other’s
toothaches, recall each other’s memo-
ries, or share each other’s happiness.
The importance assigned to this kind
of world varies. For some, it is the
only world there is. For others, it is
the only part of the world which can be
directly known. For still others, it is
a special part of what can be known.
In any case, the problem of how one
knows about the subjective world of
another must be faced. Apart from the
question of what “knowing” means, the
problem is one of accessibility.

Public and Private Events

One solution, often regarded as be-
havioristic, is to grant the distinction
between public and private events and
rule the latter out of scientiﬁc considera-
tion. This is a congenial solution for
those to whom scientiﬁc truth is a
matter of convention or agreement
among observers. It is essentially the
line taken by logical positivism and
physical operationism. Hogben (2) has
recently redeﬁned “behaviorist” in this
spirit. The subtitle of his Statistical
Theory is, “an examination of the con-
temporary crises in statistical theory
from a beha‘ imist viewpoint,” and this
is ampliﬁed in the following way: “The
behaviorist, as I here use the term,
does not deny the convenience of
classifying processes as mental or mate-
rial. He recognizes the distinction be—
tween personality and corpse: but he
has not yet had the privilege of attend-
ing an identity parade in which human
minds without bodies are by common
recognition distinguishable from living
without minds. Till
then, he is content to discuss probability
in the vocabulary of events, including
audible or visibly recorded assertions of
human beings as such. . . .” The be-
havioristic position, so deﬁned, is simply
that of the publicist and “has no con—
cern with structure and mechanism.”

The point of View is often called
operational, and it is signiﬁcant that
P. W. Bridgman’s physical operationism
could not save him from an extreme
solipsism even Within physical science
itself. Though he insisted that he was
not a solipsist, he was never able to
reconcile seemingly public physical
knowledge with the private world of the
scientist (3). Applied to psychological
problems, operationism has been no

SCIENCE, VOL. 140

 




more successful. We may recognize the
restrictions imposed by the operations
through which we can know of the
existence of properties of subjective
events, but the operations cannot be
identiﬁed with the events themselves.
S. S. Stevens has applied Bridgman’s
principle to psychology, not to decide
whether subjective events exist, but to
determine the extent to which we can
deal with them scientiﬁcally (4).

Behaviorists have from time to time
examined the problem of privacy, and
some of them have excluded so-called
sensations, images, thought processes,
and so on, from their deliberations.
When they have done so not because
such things do not exist but because
they are out of reach of their methods,
the charge is justiﬁed that they have
neglected the facts of consciousness.
The strategy is, however, quite unwise.
It is particularly important that a sci—
ence of behavior face the problem of
privacy. It may do so without abandon-
ing the basic position of behaviorism.
Science often talks about things it can—
not see or measure. When a man
tosses a penny into the air, it must be
assumed that he tosses the earth be-
neath him downward. It isquite out
of the question to see or measure the
effect on the earth, but an effect must
be assumed for the sake of a con-
sistent account. An adequate science of
behavior must consider events taking
place within the skin of the organism,
not as physiological mediators of be-
havior but as part of behavior itself.
It can deal with these events without
assuming that they have any special
nature or must be known in any special
way. The skin is not that important
as a boundary. Private and public
events have the same kinds of physical
dimensions.

Self-Descriptive Behavior

In the 50 years which have passed
since a behavioristic philosophy was
ﬁrst stated, facts and principles bear-
ing on the basic issues have steadily
accumulated. For one thing, a scientiﬁc
analysis of behavior has yielded a sort
of empirical epistemology. The subject
matter of a science of behavior includes
the behavior of scientists and other
knowers. The techniques available to
such a science give an empirical theory
of knowledge certain advantages over
theories derived from philosophy and

31 MAY 1963

logic. The problem of privacy may be
approached in a fresh direction by
starting with behavior rather than with
immediate experience. The strategy is
certainly no more arbitrary or circular
than the earlier practice, and it has a
surprising result. Instead of concluding
that man can know only his subjective
experiences—that he is bound forever
to his private world and that the ex—
ternal world is only a construct—a
behavioral theory of knowledge suggests
that it is the private world which, if
not entirely unknowable, is at least not
likely to be known well. The relations
between organism and environment
involved in knowing are of such a sort
that the privacy of the world within the
skin imposes more serious limitations
on personal knowledge than on scien-
tiﬁc accessibility. .

An organism learns to react dis-
criminatively to the world around it
under certain contingencies of reinforce-
ment. Thus, a child learns to name a
color correctly when a given response
is reinforced in the presence of the
color and extinguished in its absence.
The verbal community may make the
reinforcement of an extensive repertoire
of responses contingent on subtle
properties of colored stimuli. We have
reason to believe that the child will not
discriminate among colors—that he will
not see two colors as different—until
exposed to such contingencies. So far
as we know, the same process of
differential reinforcement is required if
a child is to distinguish among the
events occurring within his own skin.

Many contingencies involving private
stimuli need not be arranged by a
verbal community, for they follow from
simple mechanical relations among
stimuli, responses, and reinforcing con-
sequences. The various motions which
comprise turning a handspring, for
example, are under the control of ex-
ternal and internal stimuli and are
subject to external and internal rein-
forcing consequences. But the performer
is not necessarily “aware” of the stimuli
controlling his behavior, no matter how
appropriate and skillful it may be.
“Knowing” or “being aware of” what
is happening in turning a handspring
involves discriminative responses, such
as naming or describing, which arise
from contingencies necessarily arranged
by a verbal environment. Such environ-
ments are common. The community is
generally interested in what a man
is doing, has done, or is planning to do,

and why, and it arranges contingencies
which generate verbal responses which
name and describe the. external and
internal stimuli associated with these
events. It challenges his verbal be-
havior by asking, “How do you know?”
and the speaker answers, if at all, by
describing some of the variables of
which his verbal behavior was a func-
tion. The “awareness” resulting from
all this is a social product.

In attempting to set up such a reper—
toire, however, the verbal community
works under a severe handicap. It can-
not always arrange the contingencies
required for subtle discriminations. It
cannot teach a child to call one pattern
of private stimuli “diﬂidence” and
another “embarrassment” as effectively
as it teaches him to call one stimulus
“red” and another “orange,” for it
cannot be sure of the presence or ab-
sence of the private patterns of stimuli
appropriate to reinforcement or lack of
reinforcement. Privacy thus causes
trouble ﬁrst of all for the verbal com-
munity. The individual suffers in turn.
Because the community cannot rein—
force self-descriptive responses consist-
ently, a person cannot describe or
otherwise “know” events occurring
within his own skin as subtly and
precisely as he knows events in the
world at large.

There are, of course, differences
between external and internal stimuli
which are not mere differences in loca-
tion. Proprioceptive and interoceptive
stimuli may have a certain intimacy.
They are likely to be especially familiar.
They are very much with us: we can-
not escape from a toothache as easily
as from a deafening noise. They may
well be of a special kind: the stimuli
we feel in pride or sorrow may not
closely resemble those we feel in sand-
paper or satin. But this does not mean
that they differ in physical status. In
particular, it does not mean that they
can be more easily or more directly
known. What is particularly clear and
familiar to the potential knower may
be strange and distant to the verbal
community responsible for his knowing.

Conscious Content

What are the private events which,
at least in a limited way, a man may
come to respond to in ways we call
knowing? Let us begin with the oldest
and in many ways the most difficult

953

 




kind, represented by “the stubborn fact
of consciousness.” What is happening
when a person observes the conscious
content of his mind, when he looks at
his sensations or images? Western
philosophy and science have been handi-
capped in answering these questions by
an unfortunate metaphor. The Greeks
could not explain how a man could have
knowledge of something with which he
was not in immediate contact. How
could he know an object on the other
side of the room, for example? Did
he reach out and touch it with some
sort of invisible probe? Or did he never
actually come into contact with the
object at all but only with a copy of
it inside his body? Plato supported the
copy theory with his metaphor of the
cave. Perhaps a man never sees the
real world at all but only shadows of it
on the wall of the cave in which he is
imprisoned. (The “shadows” may well
have been the much more accurate
copies of the outside world in a
camera obscura. Did Plato know of a
cave at the entrance of which a happy
superposition of objects admitted only
the thin pencils of light needed for a
camera obscura?) C0pies of the real
world projected into the body could
compose the experience which a man
directly knows. A similar theory could
also explain how one can see objects
which are “not really there,” as in
hallucinations, after—images, and memo-
ries. Neither explanation is, of course,
satisfactory. How a cop-y may arise at
a distance is at least as puzzling as
how a man may know an object at a
distance. Seeing things which are not
really there is no harder to explain than
the occurrence of c0pies of things not
there to be copied.

The search for copies of the world
within the body, particularly in the
nervous system, still goes on, but with
discouraging results. If the retina could
suddenly be developed, like a photo-
graphic plate, it would yield a poor
picture. The nerve impulses in the
optic tract must have an even more
tenuous resemblance to “what is seen.”
The patterns of vibrations which strike
our ear when we listen to music are
quickly lost in transmission. The bodily
reactions to substances tasted, smelled,
and touched would scarcely qualify as
faithful reproductions. These facts are
discouraging for those who are looking
for copies of the real world within the
body, but they are fortunate for psycho-
physiology as a whole. ‘At‘ some point
the organism must do more than create

954

duplicates. It must see, hear, smell,
and so on, and the seeing, hearing, and
smelling must be forms of action rather
than of reproduction. It must do some
of the things it is differentially rein-
forced for doing when it learns to
respond discriminatively. The sooner
the pattern of the external world dis-
appears after impinging on the or-
ganism, the sooner the organism may
get on with these other functions.

The need for something beyond, and
quite different from, copying is not
widely understood. Suppose someone
were to coat the occipital lobes of the
brain with a special photographic emul-
sion which, when developed, yielded a
reasonable copy of a current visual
stimulus. In many quarters this would
be regarded as a triumph in the physi—
ology of vision. Yet nothing could be
more disastrous, for we should have
to start all over again and ask how the
organism sees a picture in its occipital
cortex, and we should now have much
less of the brain available in which to
seek an answer. It adds nothing to an
explanation of how an organism reacts
to a stimulus to trace the pattern of the
stimulus into the body. It is most con-
venient for both organism and psycho—
physiologist, if the external world is
never copied—if the world we know is
simply the world around us. The same
may be said of theories according to
which the brain interprets signals sent
to it and in some sense reconstructs
external stimuli. If the real world is,
indeed, scrambled in transmission but
later reconstructed in the brain, we
must then start all over again and
explain how the organism sees the
reconstruction.

An adequate treatment of this point
would require a thorough analysis of
the behavior of seeing and of the con-
ditions under which we see (to continue
with vision as a convenient modality).
It would be unwise to exaggerate our
success to date. Discriminative visual
behavior arises from contingencies in-
volving external stimuli and overt re-
sponses, but possible private accompani-
ments must not be overlooked. Some
of the consequences of such contingen-
cies seem well established. It is usually
easiest for us to see a friend when we
are looking at him, because visual
stimuli similar to those present when
the behavior was acquired exert max-
imal control over the response. But
mere visual stimulation is not enough;
even after having been exposed to the
necessary reinforcement, we may not

 

\‘w

. a:

see a friend who is present unless we
have reason to do so. On the other
hand, if the reasons are strong enough,
we may see him in someone bearing.
only a superﬁcial resemblance to him,
or when no one like him is present at
all. If conditions favor seeing some-
thing else, we may behave accordingly.
If, on a hunting trip, it is important to
see a deer, we may glance toward our
friend at a distance, see him as a deer,
and shoot.

It is not, however, seeing our friend
which raises the question of conscious
content but “seeing that we are seeing
him.” There are no natural contingen-
cies for such behavior. We learn to
see that we are seeing only because a
verbal community arranges for us to do
so. We usually acquire the behavior
when we are under appropriate Visual
stimulation, but it does not follow that
the thing seen must be present when
we see that we are seeing it. The con-
tingencies arranged by the verbal en-
vironment may set up self-descriptive
responses describing the behavior of
seeing even when the thing seen is not
present.

If seeing does not require the pres-
ence of things seen, we need not be
concerned about certain mental pro-
cesses said to be involved in the
construction of such things—images,
memories, and dreams, for example.
We may regard a dream not as a dis-
play of things seen by the dreamer but
simply as the behavior of seeing. At
no time during a day-dream, for ex-
ample, should We expect to ﬁnd within
the organism anything which corre-
sponds to the external stimuli present
when the dreamer ﬁrst acquired the
behavior, in Which he is now engaged.
In simple recall we need not suppose
that we wander through some store-
house of memory until we ﬁnd an
object which we then contemplate. In-
stead of assuming that we begin with a
tendency to recognize such an object
once it is found, it is simpler to assume
that we begin with a tendency to see it.
Techniques of self-management which
facilitate recall—for example, the use
of mnemonic devices—can be formu—
lated as ways of strengthening be-
havior rather than of creating objects
to be seen. Freud dramatized the issue
with respect to dreaming when asleep in
his concept of dreamwork—an activity
in which some part of the dreamer
played the role of a theatrical producer
while another part sat in the audience.
If a dream is, indeed, something seen,

SCIENCE, VOL. 140

 




then we must suppose that it is wrought
as such, but if it is simply the behavior
of seeing, the dreamwork may be
dropped from the analysis. It took
man a long time to understand that
when he dreamed of a wolf, no wolf
was actually there. It has taken him
much longer to understand that not
even a representation of a wolf is there.

Eye movements which appear to be
associated with dreaming are in accord
with this interpretation, since it is not
likely that the dreamer is actually
watching a dream on the undersides of
his eyelids. When memories are aroused
by electrical stimulation of the brain,
as in the work of Wilder Penﬁeld, it is
also simpler to- assume that it is the
behavior of seeing, hearing, and so on
which is aroused than that it is some
copy of early environmental events
which the subject then looks at or
listens to. Behavior similar to the re-
sponses to the original events must be
assumed in both cases—the subject sees
or hears—but the reproduction of the
events seen or heard is a needless com-
plication. The familiar process of re-
sponse chaining is available to account
for the serial character of the behavior
of remembering, but the serial linkage
of stored experiences (suggesting en-
grams in the form of sound ﬁlms) de-
mands a new mechanism.

The heart of the behavioristic posi-
tion on conscious experience may be
summed up in this way: seeing does not
imply something seen. We acquire the
behavior of seeing under stimulation
from actual objects, but it may occur
in the absence of these objects under
the control of other variables. (So far
as the world within the skin is con-
cerned, it always occurs in the absence
of such objects.) We also acquire the
behavior of seeing-that-we-are-seeing
when we are seeing actual objects, but
it may also occur in their absence.

To question the reality or the nature
of the things seen in conscious experi-
ence is not to question the value of
introspective psychology or its methods.
Current problems in sensation are
mainly concerned with the physiological
function of receptors and associated
neural mechanisms. Problems in per-
ception are, at the moment, less in-
timately related to speciﬁc mechanisms,
but the trend appears to be in the same
direction. So far as behavior is con-
cerned, both sensation and perception

may be analyzed as forms of stimulus .

control. The subject need not be re-
garded as observing or evaluating con—

31 MAY 1963

scious experiences. Apparent anomalies
of stimulus control which are now ex-
plained by appealing to a psycho-
physical relation or to the laws of
perception may be studied in their own
right. It is, after all, no real solution
to attribute them to the slippage in-
herent in converting a physical stimulus
into a subjective experience.

The experimental analysis of be-
havior has a little more to- say on this
subject. Its techniques have recently
been extended to what might be called
the psychophysics of lower organisms.
Blough’s adaptation of the Békésy tech-
nique—for example, in determining the
spectral sensitivity of pigeons and
monkeys—yields sensory data compar-
able with the reports of a trained ob-
server (5). Herrnstein and van
Sommers have recently developed a
procedure in which pigeons “bisect
sensory intervals” (6) . It is tempting to
describe these procedures by saying
that investigators have found ways to
get nonverbal organisms to describe
their sensations. The fact is that a
form of stimulus control has been in-
vestigated without using a repertoire of
self-observation or, rather, by construct-
ing a special repertoire the nature and
origin of which are clearly understood.
Rather than describe such experiments

with the terminology of introspection,

we may formulate them in their proper
place in an experimental analysis. The
behavior of the observer in the tradi-
tional psychophysical experiment may
then be reinterpreted accordingly.

Mental Way Stations

So much for “conscious content,” the
classical problem in mentalistic philoso-
phies. There are other mental states or
processes to be taken into account.
Moods, cognitions, and expectancies,
for example, are also examined intro-
spectively, and descriptions are used in
psychological formulations. The condi-
tions under which descriptive reper-
toires are set up are much less suc-
cessfully controlled. Terms describing
sensations and images are taught by
manipulating discriminative stimuli—a
relatively amenable class of variables.
The remaining kinds of mental events
are related to such operations as depri-
vation and satiation, emotional stimula-
tion, and various schedules of rein-
forcement. The difﬁculties they present
to the verbal community are suggested
by the fact that there is no psycho-

physics of mental states of this sort.
That fact has not inhibited their use in
explanatory systems.

In an experimental analysis, the rela-
tion between a property of behavior
and an operation performed upon the
organism is studied directly. Traditional
mentalistic formulations, however, em-
phasize certain way stations. Where an
experimental analysis might examine
the effect of punishment on behavior,
a mentalistic psychology will be con-
cerned ﬁrst with the effect of punish-
ment in generating feelings of anxiety
and then with the effect of anxiety on
behavior. The mental state seems to
bridge the gap between dependent and
independent variables, and a mentalistic
interpretation is particularly attractive
when these are separated by long per-
iods of time———when, for example, the
punishment occurs in childhood and the
effect appears in the behavior of the
adult.

Mentalistic way stations are pOpu-
lar. In a demonstration experiment,
a hungry pigeon was conditioned to
turn around in a clockwise direction.
A ﬁnal, smoothly executed pattern of
behavior was shaped by reinforcing
successive approximations with food.
Students .who had watched the de-
monstration were asked to write an
account of what they had seen. Their
responses included the following: (i)
the organism was conditioned to expect
reinforcement for the right kind of
behavior; (ii) the pigeon walked
around, hoping that something would
bring the food back again; (iii) the
pigeon observed that a certain behavior
seemed to produce a particular result;
(iv) the pigeon felt that food would
be given it because of its action; and
(v) the bird came to associate his
action with the click of the food-
dispenser. The observed facts could
be stated, respectively, as follows: (i)
the organism was reinforced when its
behavior was of a given kind; (ii) the
pigeon walked around until the food
container again appeared; (iii) a certain
behavior produced a particular result;
(iv) food- was given to the pigeon
when it acted in a given way; and (v)
the click of the food-dispenser was
temporally related to the bird’s action.
These statements describe the contingen-
cies of reinforcement. The expressions
“expect,” “hope,” “observe,” “feel,”
and “associate” go beyond them to iden-
tify effects on the pigeon. The effect
actually observed was clear enough: the
pigeon turned more skillfully and m0re

955

 




frequently. But that was not the effect

reported by the students. (If pressed,
they would doubtless have said that
the pigeon turned more skillfully and
more frequently because it expected,
hoped, and felt that if it did so food
would appear.) '

The events reported by the students
were observed, if at all, in their own be-
havior. They were describing what they
would have expected, felt, and hoped
for under similar circumstances. But
they were able to do so only because
a verbal community had brought rele-
vant terms under the control of certain
stimuli, and this had been done when
the community had access only to the
kinds of public information available
to the students in the demonstration.
Whatever the students knew about
themselves which permitted them to in-
fer comparable events in the pigeon
must have been learned from a verbal
community which saw no more of their
behavior than they had seen of the
pigeon’s. Private stimuli may have en-
tered into the control of their self-
descriptive repertoires, but the readiness
with which they applied these reper-
toires to the pigeon indicates that ex-
ternal stimuli had remained important.
The extraordinary strength of a mentale
istic interpretation is really a sort of
proof that, in describing a private way
station, one is to a considerable extent
making use of public information.

The mental way station is often
accepted as a terminal datum, however.
When a man must be trained to dis-
criminate between different planes,
ships, and so on, it is tempting to stop
at the point at which he can be said
to identify such objects. It is implied
that if he can identify an object he can
name it, label it, describe it, or act
appropriately in some other way. In the
training process he always behaves in
one of these ways; no way station called
“identiﬁcation” appears in practice or
need appear in theory. (Any discussion
of the discriminative behavior generated
by the verbal environment to permit a
person to examine the content of his
consciousness must be qualiﬁed accord-
ingly.)

Cognitive theories stop at way sta-
tions where the mental action is usually
somewhat more complex than identiﬁca-
tion. For example, a subject is said to
know who and where he is, what
something is, or what has happened or
is going to happen, regardless of the
forms of behavior through which this
knOwledge was set up or which may

956

now testify to its existence. Similarly,
in accounting for verbal behavior, a
listener or reader is said to understand
the meaning of a passage although the
actual changes brought about by listen-
ing to or reading the passage are not
speciﬁed. In the same way, schedules of
reinforcement are sometimes studied
simply for their effects on the expecta-
tions of the organism exposed to them,
without discussion of the implied rela-
tion between expectation and action.
Recall, inference, and reasoning may be
formulated only to the point at which
an experience is remembered or a con-
clusion is reached, behavioral manifesta-
tions being ignored. In practice the
investigator always carries through to
some response, if only a response of
self-description.

On the other hand, mental states
are often studied as causes of action.
A speaker thinks of something to say
before saying it, and this explains what
he says, although the sources of his
thoughts may not be examined. An
unusual act is called “impulsive,” with-
out further inquiry into the origin of
the unusual impulse. A behavioral mal-
adjustment shows anxiety, but the
source of the anxiety is neglected. One
salivates upon seeing a lemon because
it reminds one of a sour taste, but why
it does so is not speciﬁed. The formula-
tion leads directly to a technology based
on the manipulation of mental states.
To change a man’s voting behavior we
change his opinions, to induce him to
act we strengthen his beliefs, to make
him eat we make him feel hungry, to
prevent wars we reduce warlike tensions-
in the minds of men, to effect psycho—
therapy we alter troublesome mental
states, and so on. In practice, all these
ways of changing a man’s mind reduce
to manipulating his environment, verbal
or otherwise.

In many cases we can reconstruct a
complete causal chain by indentifying
the mental state which is the effect of
an environmental variable with the
mental state which is the cause of
action. But this is not always enough.
In traditional mentalistic philosophies
various things happen at the way station
which alter the relation between the
terminal events. The effect of the
psychophysical function and the laws of
perception in distorting the physical
stimulus before it reaches the way sta-
tion has already been mentioned. Once
the mental stage is reached, other effects
are said to occur. Mental states alter
each other. A painful memory may

 

never affect behavior, or it may affect
it an unexpected way if another mental
state succeeds in repressing it. Con-
ﬂicting variables may be reconciled
before they have an effect on behavior if
the subject engages [in ‘mental action
called “making a decision.” Dissonant
cognitions generated by conﬂicting
conditions of reinforcement will not be
reﬂected in behavior if the subject can
“persuade himself” that one condition
was actually of a different magnitude
or kind. These disturbances in simple
causal linkages between environment
and behavior can be formulated and
studied experimentally as interactions
among variables, but the possibility has
not been fully exploited, and the effects
still provide a formidable stronghold
for mentalistic theories designed to
bridge the gap between dependent and
independent variables.

Methodological Objections

The behavioristic argument is never-
theless still valid. We may object, ﬁrst,
to the predilection for unﬁnished causal
sequences. A disturbance in behavior
is not explained by relating it to felt
anxiety until the anxiety has in turn
been explained. An action is not ex?
plained by attributing it to expectations
until the expectations have in turn
been accounted for. Complete causal
sequences might, of course, include
references to way stations, but the fact
is that the way station generally inter-
rupts the account in one direction or
the other. For example, there must be
thousands of instances in the psycho—
analytic literature in which a thought
or memory is said to have been rele-
gated to the unconscious because it was
painful or intolerable, but the percent-
age of instances in which even the most
casual suggestion is offered as to why
it was painful 'or intolerable must be
Very small. Perhaps explanations could
have been offered, but the practice has
discouraged the completion of the
causal sequence.

A second objection is that a preoc—
cupation with mental way stations bur-
dens a science of behavior with all the
problems raised by the limitations and
inaccuracies of self-descriptive reper-
toires. We need not take the extreme
position that mediating events or any
data about them obtained through in-
trospection must be ruled out of con-
sideration, but we should certainly
welcome other ways of treating .the

SCIENCE, VOL. 140

 




data more satisfactorily. Independent
variables change the behaving organism,
often in ways which persist for many
years, and such changes affect subse-
quent behavior. The subject may be
able to describe some of these inter-
vening states in useful ways, either
before or after they have affected be-
havior. On the other hand, behavior
may be extensively modiﬁed by vari-
ables of which, and of the effect of
which, the subject is never aware. So
far as we know, self-descriptive re-
sponses do not alter controlling rela-
tionships. If a severe punishment is
less effective than a mild one, this is
not because it cannot be “kept in
mind.” (Certain behaviors involved in
self-management, such as reviewing a
history of punishment, may alter be-
havior, but they do so by introducing
other variables rather than by changing
a given relation.)

Perhaps the most serious objection
concerns the order of events. Observa-
tion of one’s own behavior necessarily
follows the behavior. Responses which
seem to be describing intervening states
alone may embrace behavioral effects.
“I am hungry” may describe, in part,
the strength of the speaker’s ongoing
ingestive behavior. “I was hungrier
than I thought” seems particularly to
describe behavior rather than an in-
tervening, possibly causal, state. More
serious examples of a possibly mistaken
order are to be found in theories of
psychotherapy. Before asserting that
the release of a repressed wish has a
therapeutic effect on behavior, or that
when one knows why he is neurotically
ill he will recover, we should consider
the plausible alternative that a change
in behavior resulting from therapy has
made it possible for the subject to re-
call a repressed wish or to understand
his illness.

A ﬁnal objection is that way stations
are so often simply invented. It is too
easy to say that someone does some-
thing “because he likes to do it,” or
that he does one thing rather than an-
other “because he has made a choice.”

The importance of behaviorism as a
philosophy of science naturally declines
as a scientiﬁc analysis becomes more
powerful because there is then less
need to use data in the form of self-
description. The mentalism which sur-
vives in the ﬁelds of sensation and per-
ception will disappear as alternative
techniques prove their value in analyz-
ing stimulus control, and similar
changes may be anticipated elsewhere.

31 MAY 1963

Cognitive psychologists and others still
try to circumvent the explicit control
of variables by describing contingen-
cies of reinforcement to their subjects
in “instructions.” They also try to dis-
pense with recording behavior in a
form from which probability of re-
sponse can be estimated by asking their
subjects to evaluate their tendencies to
respond. But a person rarely responds
to a description of contingencies as he
would respond under direct exposure to
them, nor can he accurately predict his
rate of responding, particularly the
course of the subtle changes in rate
which are a commonplace in the ex-
perimental analysis of behavior. These
attempts to short—circuit an experi-
mental analysis can no longer be justi-
ﬁed on grounds of expedience, and
there are many reasons for abandoning
them. Much remains to be done, how-
ever, before the facts to which they
are currently applied can be said to be
adequately understood.

Behaviorism and Biology

Elsewhere, the scientiﬁc study of man
has scarcely recognized the need for
reform. The biologist, for example, be-
gins with a certain advantage in study-
ing the behaving organism, for the
structures he analyzes have an evident
physical status. The nervous system is
somehow earthier than the behavior for
which it is largely responsible. Philoso-
phers and psychologists alike have from
time to time sought escape from men-
talism in physiology. When a man sees
red, he may be seeing the physiological
effect of a red stimulus; when he
merely imagines red, he may be seeing

.the same effect re—aroused. Psycho--

physical and perceptual distortions may
be wrought by physiological processes.
What a man feels as anxiety may be
autonomic reactions to threatening
stimuli. And so on. This may solve
the minor problem of the nature of
subjective experience, but it does not
solve any of the methodological prob-
lems with which behaviorism is most
seriously concerned. A physiological
translation of mentalistic terms may
reassure those who want to avoid dual-
ism, but inadequacies in the formula-
tion survive translation.

' When writing about the behavior of
organisms, biologists tend to be more
mentalistic then psychologists. Adrian
could not understand how a nerve im-
pulse could cause a thought. The au-

thor of a recent article on the visual
space sense in Science (7) asserts that
“the ﬁnal event in the chain fro-m the
retina to the brain is a psychic eXperi—
ence.” Another investigator reports re-
search on “the brain and its contained
mind.” Pharmacologists study the
“psychotropic” drugs. Psychosomatic
medicine insists on the inﬂuence of
mind over matter. And psychologists
join their physiological colleagues in
looking for feelings, emotions, drives,
and the pleasurable aspects of positive
reinforcement in the brain.

The facts uncovered in such research
are important, both for their own sake
and for their bearing on behavior. The
physiologist studies structures and proc-
esses without which behavior could not
occur. He is in a position to supply
a “reductionist” explanation beyond
the reach of an analysis which con-
ﬁnes itself to terminal variables. He
cannot do- this well, however, so long
as he accepts traditional mentalistic
formulations. Only an experimental
analysis of behavior will deﬁne his task
in optimal terms. The point is demon-
strated by recent research in psycho-
pharmacology. When the behavioral
drugs ﬁrst began to attract attention,
they were studied with impromptu
techniques based on self-observation,
usually designed to quantify subjective
reports. Eventually the methods of an
experimental analysis proved their
value in generating reproducible seg-
ments of behavior upon which the
effects of drugs could be observed and
in terms of which they could be effec-
tively deﬁned and classiﬁed. For the
same reasons, brain physiology will
move forward more rapidly when it
recognizes that its role is to account
for the mediation of behavior rather
than of mind. '

Behaviorism in the Social Sciences

There is also still a need for be-
haviorism in the social sciences, where
psychology has long been used for pur-
poses of explanation. Economics has
had its economic man. Political science
has considered man as a political ani-
mal. Parts of anthropology and soci-
ology have found a place for psycho-
analysis. The relevance of psychology
in linguistics has been debated for
more than half a century. Studies of
scientiﬁc method have oscillated be-
tween logical and empirical analyses.
In all these ﬁelds, “psychologizing” has

957

 




often had disappointing results and has
frequently been rejected in favor of an
extreme formalism which emphasizes
objective facts. Economics conﬁnes it-
self to its own abundant data. Political
scientists limit themselves to whatever
may be studied with a few empirical
tools and techniques, and conﬁne them-
selves, when they deal with theory, to
formalistic analyses of political struc-
tures. A strong structuralist movement
is evident in sociology. Linguistics em-
phasizes formal analyses of semantics
and grammar.

Straight-laced commitments to pure
description and formal analysis appear
to leave no place for explanatory
principles, and the shortcoming is often
blamed on the exclusion of mental ac-
' tivities. For example, participants at
a recent symposium on “The Limits of
Behavioralism in Political Science”

(8) complained of a neglect of subjec-
tive experience, ideas, motives, feelings,
attitudes, values, and so on. This is rem-
iniscent of attacks on behaviorism. In
any case, it shows the same misunder-
standing of the scope of a behaviorial
analysis. In its extension to the social
sciences, as in psychology proper, be-
haviorism means more than a commit-
ment to objective measurement. No
entity or process which has any useful
explanatory force is to be rejected on
the ground that it is subjective or men-
tal. The data which have made it im-
portant must, however, be studied and
formulated in effective ways. The as-
signment is well within the scope of an
experimental analysis of behavior,
which thus offers a promising alterna-
tive to a commitment to pure descrip-
tion on the one hand and an appeal to
mentalistic theories on the other. To

News and Comment

High-Energy Physics: Panel
Proposes Construction, Operation
Program To Run through 1981

A federally convened panel on future
needs in high—energy accelerator phys-
ics issued an $8—billion, 18-year shop-
ping list last week, and, in doing so,
served up a nicecase study on the com—
plexities of deciding how much should
be spent for what in science. (Copies of
the study, entitled Report of the GAC-
PSAC Panel on High Energy Accel-
erator Physics, may be obtained with-
out charge from the US. Atomic Energy
Commission, Division of Technical In-
formation Extension, P.O. Box X, Oak
Ridge, Tenn.)

In some ﬁelds, such as medical and
agricultural research, long-standing
and widespread public support exerts
constant pressure for greater eXpendi-
tures. As a result, one of the principal
tasks facing the political decision mak-
ers and their scientiﬁc advisors is to

958

guard against excess. But in ﬁelds that
are largely beyond public View and
comprehension, such as high-energy
physics and radio astronomy, the deci-
sions are Virtually unencumbered by
political considerations, and it is
easier to shoot for a rational assess-
ment of the “right amount.” The main
impediments to reaching that goal are
the competing demands of other ﬁelds
of science. The federal money pie,
which is the largest source of sus-
tenance for basic research, is just so
big, and a fatter slice here means a
thinner slice there; but in the more
esoteric ﬁelds of science it is possible,
within fairly generous bounds, to make
the needs of the ﬁeld the main criterion
for federal support. The reason for this
is that Congress is strongly inclined to-
ward the promotion of science; it tends
to dabble and display its prejudices and
sentiments in those areas that it can
begin to comprehend, such as medical
research, but where its own knowledge

 

extend behaviorism as a philosophy of
science to the study of political and
economic behavior, of the behavior of
people in groups, of people speaking
and listening, teaching and learning——
this is not “psychologizing” in the tra-
ditional sense. It is simply the applica-
tion of a tested formula to important
parts of the ﬁeld of human behavior.

References and Notes

1. F. Galton, Inquiries into Human Faculty
(London, 1883), Everyman ed., p. 60.

2. L. Hogben, Statistical Theory (Allen "and
Unwin, London, 1957).

3. P. W. Bridgman, The Way Things Are (Harv-
ard Univ. Press, Cambridge, Mass., 1959).

. S. S. Stevens, Am. J. Psychol. 47, 323 (1935).

. D. S. Blough, J. Comp. Physiol. Psychol. 49,
425 (1956); and A. M. Schrier,
Science 139, 493 (1963).

6. R. J. Herrnstein and P. van Sommers, Sci-
ence 135, 40 (1962).

. K. N. Ogle, ibid., p. 763.

. The Limits of Behavioralism in Political
Science (Am. Acad. Political and Social Sci.,
Philadelphia, 1962).

UI-h

 

OOQ

is glaringly insufﬁcient, it will go along
with the experts and scarcely offer a
quibble. This practice raises some seri-
ous and disturbing questions about the
role of Congress in a critically impor-
tant and expensive area of national
activity; the best that can be said is
that that’s the way it is, and that’s the
way it will continue to be until some-
one ﬁgures out a way to raise the level
of scientiﬁc competence within Con—
gress. In the meantime, Congress’s in-
adequacy in such matters. places an
unusually heavy burden of responsi-
bility on those who are summoned to
make recommendations for scientiﬁc
investment, for, in the absence of a
critical performance by the Congress, a
formalized recommendation by a pres-
tigeful advisory body is likely to carry
the day. The main potential counter-
weight to such a recommendation is
the science advisory organization at the
presidential level, but in practice the
relationship between advisory panels
and the presidential advisors tends to
be one of cooperation rather than 0p-
position. This is not to suggest that it
should be otherwise, but the fact is that
in the case of high-energy physics, for
example, an $8 billion proposal has
been set aﬂoat without any. audible hard
questioning. Eight billion dollars may
be precisely the right ﬁgure, but, if
competing, or even sympathetic, in-
terests should feel otherwise, it is difﬁ-
cult to see how they are going to get
their views taken into consideration.

SCIENCE, VOL. 140

 




" "i

9
.‘g ‘
:4 . ARTH R OUNGER COMMITTEE:
11TH DI RICT CALIFORNIA INTERSTATE AND FOREIGN COMMERCE

l @nngrees of the minim ﬂutes

59mm of Representatives
Washington, is. GE.

March 17, 1961:

Dear My. Vose:

The various bills which have been intro-
duced on the subject of humane treatment for labora-
tory animals will be before our Committee on Interstate
and Foreign Commerce as, if and when the Chairman does
schedule hearings. As of this time, however, no action
has been scheduled on this legislation.

If we do have an opportunity to consider this
legislation in Committee, you may'be sure I will keep
your interest in mind.

Cordially yours,

J. Arthur YIungeJ, M. c.

llth District, California

Mr..M. E. VOse
2233 - 7th Avenue
Oakland, California

JAY:dh

 




 




 




 




 




 




LISTER HILL, ALA., CHAIRMAN

PAT MC NAMARA, MICH. BARRY GOLDWATER, ARIZ.
WAYNE MORSE, OREG. JACOB K. JAVITS, N.Y.
RALPH YARBOROUGH, TEX. WINSTON L. PROUTY, VT.
JOSEPH S. CLARK, PA. JOHN G. TOWER, TEX.

JENNINGS RANDOLPH, W. VA. LEN B. JORDON, IDAHO Q Q

HARRISON A. WILLIAMS, JR., NJ. IC" i a ﬁfaf g g “I ‘11
CLAIBORNE PELL, NJ. I e e e c
EDWARD M. KENNEDY, MASS.

LEE METCALF‘, MONT. COMMITTEE ON

LABOR AND PUBLIC WELFARE
STEWART E. MC CLURE, CHIEF CLERK
JOHN s. FORSYTHE, GENERAL COUNSEL

March 23, 1961;

Mr. M. E. Vore
2233 7th Avenue
Oakland California

Dear Mr. Vore:

Thank you for your recent communication regarding
humane treatment to eXperimental animals.

Several‘bills on this important matter
have been introduced and referred to Committee, but
Committee review has not been completed and the legisla-
tion has not taken syape for final action by the Senate.
At this time 1 think it best to reserve Judgment until the
Senate's deliberations are finished, because any promising
proposal clearly involves attaining a delicate balance
between the need for extensive research and humane respect
for animal life.

I will give the subject the thorough study it
deserves and you can'be assured that your views will
receive nw-syngathetic consideration.

Again.thank you for writing. I very much appre-
ciate having the benefit of your thoughts.

Sincerely,

Edward M; Kennedy an

 




LISTER HILL, ALA., CHAIRMAN

PAT MCNAMARA, MICH. BARRY GOLDWATER. ARIZ.’
WAYNE MORSE, OREG. JACOB K. JAVITS. N.Y.
RALPH YARBOROUGH, TEX. WINSTON L. PROUTY, VT.‘
JOSEPH S. CLARK, PA. JOHN G. TOWER, TEX.
JENNINGS RANDOLPH, W. VA. LEN B. JORDAN, IDAHO

O
HARRISON A. WILLIAMS JR. N.J. Q c i h gt 'i $ £
CLAIBORNE FELL. R.I. . ’ ’J n! e a eg and e
EDWARD M. KENNEDY, MASS.
LEE METCALF‘, MONT.

COM MITTEE ON

STEWART E. MCCLURE, CHIEF CLERK LABOR AND PUBLIC WELFARE
JOHN S. FORSYTHE, GENERAL COUNSEL

March 20, 1964

ﬂux M; E. Vore
2233 Seventh Avenue
Oakland, California 9H606

Dear Mr. Vore:

I am writing on behalf of Senator Lister Hill, the

Chairman of this Committee, to thank you for your recent letter

regarding proposed legislation affecting the use of animals in
research financed by the Federal Government. We appreciate

having your views and will retain your letter for the use of

the members of this Committee.

With best wishes.

Sincerely,

Robert W. Barclay
Professional Staff Member

RWBzmws

 




  

 

 
 

1 CHASE MANHATTAN PLAZA g
NEW YORK 5, N. Y J‘f

6/16/64

Dear Mrs. Stevens:

The enclosed is merely by way of demonstration. Re
the urgent need for primate centers, both the institutions
mentioned in this article have primate centers, as I recall
from my list of them from the ACP journal. And what is taking
place but the same old thing, over and over, ablation of the
brain, plus ”stimulation“, ”learning” etc. From the long
months I have spent in the library, I would estimate that the
number of such studies surely by now (having been d ne in every
possible form since the 1920's starting in the Paweﬁhian era)
have reached several million. In 1937, the references of Pavlov
and his colleagues reached 50 pages, and please note this was
solely REFERENCES. This work was compiled by Razran, who is
now doing pigeon—pecking ”scientific research“ at Queens General
Hospital under Federal grants, as are many other ”researchers”.
It seems to me that the meaning of the word science has long
ago been lost, and that the multimillion dollar primate centers
are serving as a medium for further extension of the same old
repetitious pasttimes. It seems incredible that this is per-
mitted with tax monies, doesn’t it? Why should anybody go to
work:

 

eleanor




'flu‘ IT‘l:ttl()ii~
- learning in
ju’, Psycho/U

ms- of menu
_;359‘250.

-: of electro-
gyui. j).,\‘_//(“](0[.,

' yr correlated
o.ll/.t;(‘~_s" 1957’

a.“ learning
ill/(1]., 100.3,

- (-ll'ects of
ion of the
mtoL, 1957,

The effects
.re-learning.

!

tv Jurvm,
:«luccd by
J. comp,

learning. I.
LaZO.(ych£.
;l

.5 learning.
-:'iinination
r. Psychol.

study of
p. p/zg/sz'oZ.

. effect of
:‘iininaticm
_ 1900, ~19,

(Lu, C. Ii,
Ill. Strain
wielcctro-
Crazed. J.

. learning
'(I'HI, 1957,

W‘ .ﬁu-..%._m¢m‘-a~«~wm' an“; an...» >) m .- _, q.

 

, ,;5 1' Co mpumtirc a n (1'. Physiological PSI/(TIMIZOQII

. -u— v r 1)!)r 1)”!
' " i, \Ul. 0:, 30. £5, umf-uo‘)

ROLE or CORTICAL ASSOCIATION FIELDS 1N
AUDITORY FREQUENCY DiscruM‘iNATioxl

RICHARD F. THOMPSON

University of Oregon Medical School

Previous studies have not demonstrated any permanent loss of ability to dis—
criminate auditory frequency after lesions of auditory cortex when training
procedures involved response to change from background stimulation. In the
present study, all auditory cortex plus varying amounts of posterior associa-
tion cortex were removed. The largest lesions resulted in total inability to re—

learn frequency discrimination even b

y the response to change from back-

ground stimulation training procedure. This is interpreted as supporting the
view that cortical assoc1at10n response fields play a special role in discrimina-

tion learning.

Large lesions of auditory cortex in the
cat result either in total inability to relearn
frequency discrimination, or only a transi—
tory loss of the discrimination, depending
upon conditions of training. These studies
demonstrating loss of frequei‘icy discrimina—
tion all utilized training procedures requir—
ing response to the positive stimulus and
response inhibition to the negative stimulus
(Allen, 1945; Meyer (v, \Voolsey, 1952;
Thompson, 1960). \it-‘idies demonstrating re-
learning of frequency discrimination follow—
ing lesion used training methods involving
response only to change from the (mgeing
background negative stimulus (Butler,
Diamond, Ct Nel'i', 1957; Goldberg N, Xeﬁ",
1961; Thompson, 1960). In fact the same
lesion animals both can and cannot discrim-
inate frequency as they are switched back
and forth on the two training procedures
(Thompson, 1960). All of these findings are
consist-ant with the hypothesis than. the
auditory corttx plays a special ran; .21 the
development of response inhibitiei :vnere
stimulus frequency is the cue ('I‘hon‘ipson,
1960, 1962). Most of the lesions in these

1This project was initiated in the Ilaborzuiory
oi Neurophysirdcgy, Medical School, University of
\Visconsin, and .ompleted in the Imbormory of
Physiological j’.~~v<-hology, DeynntrnmN of Medi—
cal Psychology, University oi Oregon Medical
School. At \Yiseonsin the projm-t was supi'iorted
in part by Grant 13—186, ;\Iational Institute of
Neurological .l)iseases and Blindness. A; Oregon
the pl'Ojﬂ"? was supported by grants iron; ihe Nil--
tional Institute of _Neurologi<';.l Diseases and
Blindness (Ti-2161) and the National Institute of
Men: al Health (MI-I-K3-6650) .

studies have been limited to all or a portion
of the “primary” auditory ﬁelds bounded by
the suprasylvian and rhinal sulci (heavy
lines in Ir‘igure 1). No study to date has
demonstrated permanent loss of frequency
discrimination alter neocortical lesions when
the response to change from background
stimulation method of training is used.

Electrophysiologically defined cortical
:uulitery ﬁelds are of two types: ‘.‘primary”
response regions havii'ig cochlear repres(_-nta-
tion (included within hmvy lines in Figure
and “association” response regions (stip-
yled areas of Figure 1) having no differ—
ential cochlear 1"e17n‘esentation (.~-\inassian,
"rear; 'iuser, liﬁorcnstein, a Iﬁi'inier. 1.959;
'i‘hmnpson & Sindberg, 1969; \‘Voolsey,
1951). The [nit-sent study was. p.=;:i:-ii<3d to
evaluate the possible role oi these associ—
ation response fields in auditory f’i'x-qiit-iit'y
discrimination learning.

lInTnon

\ao/mts and Procedures

sis, were given slim-k avoidanee training in
.. lavage. ii—Culler wheel with the repetitive method
of stimulus 'g‘u'esentation dost-17.....J :vrevimisiy
(Thompson, 1959, 1960). This rev-51:2“. ;"-.sponse to
the posizive 1,500—0ps stimulus id'wbz‘fﬁ ., : " .l-
iernaiitm with an ongoing (on L so ,, ‘:' q f)
background 1,0()(_)~c1’)s tone. lint-.asiz'y .. —
domly varied over a 25-db. range for all io’a.~
.\ni.i.=a.is were given ‘20 trials and 220 mot-k trials
(10 eorurol for spontaneous :uaivirv) per dav and
the percentage oi correct responses computer; from
the dili'erenee score. All animals were trained to the
90% correct response level, given further threslmid
training, and tested on 1,000 vs. 1.020 cps, rims

335

 

 




 

Fm, 1 Conical fields z'esrmnsiVe to auditory
s 1111111'111011 111 1 :11. (Areas :'H<‘l()>‘(‘<i hV herVV lines.

11:1s\l\111n and rhinal sitleiﬁ are “ ir111ar'” and
111111 auditory area. I \l auditorV area H
1.1...l‘1. posterir‘a' 1.11-1osVlVian area tl'lpl. insular area
Elm-~11 and son'1a111- sensory area U [SH]. Associ—
"11011 response fields indicated l1V dots.)
111111U the 1'1’11111‘1'1xi111:011‘ 730’)? difference threshold
(”il' 01111 1s011 1‘1'3‘1) .-'11\1 er lesions these procedures

\.I 1' renewed.

[ms/1.111s

Lesions were planned 10 include all primary
auditory cortex plus additional posterior cortex.
Lesion 1110‘hods and histological proemlures were
as deseriiw’. previously (3.110111%011 1980). The
larges1 lesions were done 111 1\\ 0 stages s1'11zlt‘fltt'.‘tll)}'

:1 11—11111.1'01'0\'e"V period.

[30/201,101'01 Results

PreoperatiVelV, all \s learned the original
disc1'11‘1‘1ination rapidly 1s00 Figures 2 and
31. In preoperatiVe threshold testing the
aVerage response to the 1 020—01 )8 test tone
was 489?.11'211190 409—38 ( .Th . aV 0r 1ge pre-
and postOper atix e-l .a1ning1 1er lor111ance and
the aVerage lesion for three {S's from a preVi—
011s study 1’Tl1o11’1pson, 19601, where lesions
were limited to primary auditory cortex.
are shown at the top of Figure 2 (control
lesion! for purposes of comparison.

BehaVioral results and lesion for the.
smallest lesion of the present study are
shown in Figure 2 (control plus suprasyl-
Vian1. The discrimination was relearned
hut. required 11101'0 trz‘Lining posto11eratiVelV
than preoperatiVelV. This S responded 58%
01’ the time to the 1,020-eps threshold test
stimulus preoperatiVclV, and 457?. of the

RICHARD F. THOMPSON

 

   

  

time postoperatiVely. BehaVioral results and
lesion for the next larger lesion (large le-
sion-l.) are also shown in Figure 2. This
lesion was intenc’led to he the same. as the
other large lesions, hut so111atic sensory
area U was inadvertently spared on the
right hemisphere This animal took con-
considei '1al. lV loneer to l 'arn postoperatiVely
than preope1 1ati\elV and exhil )ited a more
t1al1n 100/2 intie'ise in differential thre s1-l
old ahOVe the preoperatiVe leVel.

Results for the remaining three large
lesion Ss, where lesions were relatiVelV
homogeneous, are shown in Figu1e 3. The
hehaVioral results are identi 'al in all cases
—no eVidence of rclearning was seen post-
operz‘itiVelV. The index of percentage of
correct response used 111VolVed subtracting
the nuinher ot 111oek responses from the
111.1111her of correct responses In all three
S's of Figure 3 the leVels ol hoth 1110(l{.111d
correct responses were low and not sig—
nificantly different from each other through-
out postoperatiVe training.

.‘ll?f(?’(')}}l2’(.'(ll Results

Recons'truetions ot' the eorti 'al lesions are
shown in Figures ‘2 and 3. The control plus
suprasylVian lesion iI‘IClUClCtl all tissue
hounded hy the suprasVlVian and rhinal
sulei. plus the lllltltll‘. and a portion of the
anterior suprasVlVian gyrus. liarge lesion-l
included all tissue posterior and Ventral
to somatic sensor; area I on the left hemi-
sphere, and extended to the cingulatc erus
on the medial wall 111 both hemispheres. The
bulk of somatic sensory area ll 1'011'1ained
intact on the right hemisphere. The three
large lesions illustrated in Figure 3 reinoVed
all tissue posterior and Ventral to somatic
sensory area 1. extended to the. eingulate
erus on the medial wall and the rhinal
suleus VentrolaterallV. There were Varia-
tions in the anterior Ventral and anterior
medial horders as well as in the posterior
Ventral horder hut th 1ese were not large.

Thalamie degeneration patterns for the
control lesion 9's l1 1aVe heen deserihed preVi-
ouslV 1’ll10111pson 19101l30tailed an: 1le0s
of the thala111ie legi 1111.1t10ns for the ani—
mals of this studV will he presented 111 a

separate anatmnical paper. All had more

. -yum-.ﬁ... ......--.._....w<,~-- -

 

 
  
  
   
 
  

extei
the (

 
  
  
 

1 .
HUSH)!

 
 

than

  

sion

 

the 1‘

 

011lV

  

)‘1 "1111

  
  

 

 

  




Slllls and
hlhg(‘l(u
‘2. 'I‘Iiis
(' :15 llH‘
sensory
0H Ilu:
ol; eon—
‘1‘:tti\'ely
£1 lll()l'(3
Ulftsh-

«9 large
lutively
3. The
H (fuses:
11 poxt:
age of
I‘ueting
)m the
l three
ek .1311!
")t ale:-

rough—

ns are
l plum:
tissue
rhinul
I. [lie
sion—I
entrul
hemi-
gyms
. 'l‘lie
uinerl
tl‘il'ee
l()'\'(.'(l
nutie
ulzrte
I inul
urin-
erior
erior
re.
the
evi-
ysen:
uni—
n (L
lore

.. .‘uwaH V --._.._.__...-.~.....__,_ ..- _..-

 

ROLE OI“ CORTICAL ASSOCIATION li‘Il:ll.1)S

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ICONTROL LESHNVIAvmogeOIBAnHOMSI

‘00:“ POST OP
PRE OP

5

«o

O
jﬁr~jw __ *‘T‘

NUAUIO‘AVCD
0000000

0

l/Tﬁﬁmr

o
L”
5
G

Pfﬁ’C‘f/I’f CORRECT ﬁfSPOl/S

 

20

 

4/

/%/’

 

25 30

._ - ~___L_J__._.1*L ..J__J~L _.__.L__.L__1_____;

uw
0

DAYS OF TRAINING

 

 

 

 

mOFOONTROL PLUS SUPRASYLVIAN LESION

3490

Q

q POST OP
Q

K)
E
Q40

0

PfRCE/Vf C
o o

 

 

 

l 1
If) 20

M“_... _ _

m0 LARGE LESION-I
k:

0
‘0 90r PRE OP
E

Q I

% llﬁgiﬁb

CC I

 

I

J
25
DAYS OF

!
-.l.__1_L- _.._L ___L.. A __L.._.1_...J _._-. L___L_ -4 ._ -l

L_

gr-
0

TRAINING

 

DAYS OF TRAINING

Fin. 2. Belizn'iorul :unl i'tnfll,()l‘x'll(':zl results.

extensive tlmlznnie degeneration than <‘Ii<l
the eontrol lesion S's, and the four large
lesion A's Inul more extensive degeneration
than did the control plus suprasylx'iun le-
sion animal. Large lesion—1, where cortex of
the right somatic urea H was spared, had
only partial degeneration in a restrietetl
region or the posterim' nuclear group There

was no ol‘isermilile (lireet clznnzige to sub-
cortical structures in any of the lesions.

Dismissiox

The results of this Study demonstrate
clearly til/mt, extensive neoeortieul lesions in
the out. produce total inability to releurn
frequency (liseriininutum. even when the

 




RICHARD F. THOMPSON

 

PRE 0P

PERCERT CORRECT RESPONSE

 

 

DAYS OP TRAINING

 

_ LARGE LESION -3>
PRE OP

UONCDLO
OOOOO

 

PERCENT CORRECT RESPO/VSE

 

 

1
20

l
25 30

DAYS OF TRAINING

 

L LARGE LESION-4
PRE OP

RECT RES 0/
m \l co
0 o o

—‘ N (N D U‘
Q o o o o o
1' I

POST OP

PERCENT COR

 

 

 

 

 

7
DAYS OF TRAINING

_
25

. Behavioral and anatomical results for SS with three largest lesions.

“easy” training; procedure requiring re—
sponse to Change from ongoing background
stimulation is used. These large lesions in-
eluded all auditory cortex, the three pos-
terior association response foei, and all the

Visual cortex. The two S's with somewhat

smaller lesions were able to relearn the dis—
erin'iination but required considerably more
postoperative than preoperative training,
and in one ease the differential frequency

threshold was inueh elevated postopera—
tively.

It may be postulated that. the eritieal
regions, in addition to the auditory cortex.
are. the three posterior association response
foei, two on the suprasylvian gyrus and one
on the anterior lateral gyrus. A possible
behavioral role for these eortieal fields was
reeently suggested ('l‘hompson, 1964). l}!
brief, if they are assumed to represent lie—

cali
I‘eti
Via.
rep
Jas
ma
ma
frer
eur
ulu
196 ‘
ass
dis<
eoi:
lati
pair
rep:
prii
(lief

196
aeti
the
exp
the
fret
lrm
sub.
in t
rep<
lies
to (
trai
ishe

SCCl

 




 

ROLF. OF CORTICAL ASSOCIATION FIELDS

11112111111 cortical projections of the ascending
:11»1§(-11lar 1'or111ation. and if cortical arousal
1:211 the reticular 1‘or111ation habituates to

111:1tcd auditory stimulation (Sharpless &
19.36). several predictions can be
male. ((1) Animals with re111oval of pri—
111111'y auditory cortex can only discriminate
frequency if the dill‘erei'itial stimulus oc-
(1111‘s ag1’1inst- 1111 ongoing background stim-
ulus (repetitive procedure) (Thompson,
111131)). ((1) Joint rc111o 'al 101' primary and
111ssociat'vion areas should eliminate ability to
discriminate frequencv under all training
(onditions as in the present study. (6) U1-
lation of the asset iation 111 1.11s alone will 1111-
pair frequency discrimination learning by
repetitive training procedures, even if the
primary auditory cortex is intact. This pre-
diction is as yet untested.

Nell" and colleagues (Goldberg & Neff,
19151 ; Neff, 1961 :1 developed a model for the
activity of primary auditory regions of
the brain which provides an alternative
explanation to that of Thom pson (.1960) for
the etttct of a blation 0t audit01y ceitex on
1"1‘eq‘ueney discrimination. They assume that
frequency discrimination is mediated by
subcortical portions of the auditory system
in the absence of auditory cortex, when the
repetitive type training procedure is used.
3tesults of the present study, where ability
to discriminate frequency by the repetitive
training procedure was permanently abol-
ished at‘ter purely neocortical lesions, would
seem to raise difﬁculties for this theory.

111.1,:11111,

REFERENCES

ALLEN, W. 11. .‘l'tect 01 dtstim 11111 three localized
(.1'e1ebral conic-1d areas 101 sound on condi—
tioned differential responses of the dog’s
1‘1'11‘eleg. .11 mer. J. I’hysio/., HHS, 111-L, 415-428.

Auxssi 1\ V. E. Studies on
soniestl1ctic association
single 'unit analysis. J.
17, 39-58.

BUSER, 1)., Boanxs'rrnx, 1)., & Barman, J. Etude
des systt‘anes “associatil‘s” Visuels (1t auditifs
chez le chat anesthésie 11.11 chloralose. EEG
((17111. Ne11,1'()p/1g/sz'10/., 1.959, , 3t )5 3121-.

1311111111, R. 1.,\ l:)1.1\1(11\'11,l.' ., (& \11‘1‘,1«1 W. l)

{ole of auditoiv co1t(x iiidis<1i1nin1itio11 of
c1l1 111ges in f1"(.1quency. J. .\7c1(10p/11ysz.ol., 10:37,
20, 108*120.

Gomnncnc, J. .\I., & NI'JFF, W. l).
(liscri111ination after bilateral
cortical auditory areas, J.
19(31, 12-11, 1]O-~1‘28.

Mignon, l). R.., 11: Wooi sm' ,C‘. \. l1 (11 1c ts of loc al-
lizcd cortical destruction on auditoiy dis-
(:11‘i1ninttivc conditioning in cat. J. Neal/‘0-
,‘I1/11/s101.,l(ll:1_,l5,149—lt3‘2.

N111 11, W . D. Neui'al 111echanis1ns of auditory dis—
crimination. In Vt". A. ltosenblith (Edf),
Sensory emu/1111Meat/Tea. New York: Wiley,
19131. Pp. 22139—278.

811111111111css, 19., 1% J.\s111<111, ll. ll ll: 1bi1'u 1111111 of
the arousal 1‘e111(tion. 1111111111, 193 79, (155—13180.

51‘11111111sox,1t...l ll1eettl1ct ol 1111inii‘1g‘procedure
upon auditory frequency discrimination in
the cat. 1]. comp. physiol. I’syc/zo/., .l€,'1.3‘11, 132,
.1 11113490.

'T‘ntmrsox, It. i‘.l‘1‘unction of auditory eortex of
cat. in frequency discrimination. J. Neuro-
physiol” liltitl, 23, 321—1331.

'1‘111111111sox, R. i1‘. Bolt (11 the cerebral cortex in
stimulus g1111er11ii71atio11. ./. (OI/2]). [Inns-ml.
l”\'1/11/10(., 27‘.)1~287.

111 neural basis of stimulus

("()II_/‘('l'(’ltC(3 076 SUI/laihis

Stanford [‘nivcr.

organization of 11
area, including a
.\ carop/Lyswl., 10111-1,

11‘1‘e(.1u(111(_1y
ablation of
1'\’ (111.1‘011/11/s1.()/.,

1111112, 3.3,
11 11.
Al

111(11111st1x, it. 1‘.
generalization. 111,

11,111[111/'(1/1311/1'0/1. >‘1;1lli‘<)l'd:
111-115.5, 11111-1.

'l‘noursox, R. ’l1‘., 11c 5131111121111, R. M. Auditory
rt-s1'1oi1setields111 association and motor cortex
of cat. J. 17‘1‘11111'0/1/1{/siol., 19130, 2."), 87—1013.

\VOOLsEY, C. N. ()1'g1111ization of cortical audit(_1ry
system: A :1'(.1.vit';1.w and a synthesis. 111 (..l. L.
Rasnnissen 1&1 \‘17. 11‘. \Yindle (lids), Neural
mechanisms of the (111/(112101317 and vestibular sys-
tcms. Springfield: Charles C Thomas, 19111. Pp.
105—180.

(Received August 16, 1963)

 




l .

O.

CH C GO DAILY NEWS
‘22 Tues, Oct. 2, ’62

 

Leo nard Scott, gray- haired and pleasant, iSa
soldier r'fightin . and mine.
Oftn ten in the line of duty he must kill—pigeons.

He moves across Chicago with the stealth of an infantry

ng in your behalf.

scout, sometimes scampering across rooftops at night, Some-

times making his way between darkened
buildings. ’
In the last two years he has heroically
snuffed out 9,500 lives for our good.
Scott "is a veteran campaigner against
pigeons Iand he does his work with stealth
because he does not relish the idea of
coming face to face with an ardent bird
lover.
’ “They’re a strange lot,” he said of the
0“" J. SMUH' bird lovers. “They stop at nothing.”
. >3 ii: >8
SCOTT' AND HIS FELLOW soldiers-against-pigeons
’often Us se expen nsive aluminum cage- traps. These are baited
’With grain and put atop buildings.

The bird fanci 1er_s, giving hardly a thought to personal
safe ety, climb onto the roofs and, using bare hands, pry
apart the cage bars 5. Their dear friends flutter to safety.

Left alone, Scott can corner 25 to 35 pigeons in a single
cage in a day. His workers then move the trap to the prop-
erty- of his ‘Bird Control Inc., 1503 N. Lockwood Av.

Cage and birds are put in one room. The exhaust fumes
from a car are piped into the death chamber.

Without a cough, sneeze or' sputter, the pigeons begin
to drop dead.

y don’t feella thing,” Scott said.
it ’0! It

IT WOULD BE PLEASANT to report that the pigeons
are then treated to burial in a pet cemetery but the truth
is they are hauled away by a private scavenger. In‘ that
Scott’s outfit may have a dozen or more traps out every

day, the garbage men are kept busy on this funeral run.

.‘ Bird Control 'Inc. has developed a poison that works
very, well on birds, Scott reported. After eating poisoned
grain, for'fr'om‘ five to 15 days, the pigeons quite suddenly

keel over and expire.

Laboratory tests show that birds so poisoned suffer no
spasms or retching but die within minutes after falling ill.

Scott has worked downtown at the behest of merChants’

associations and building managers. He says he has sue-

ceeded in ridding some sections of the Loop area of pigeons.

“Even in the scrub pigeons there is a homing instinct,”
he said. “Once you remove all the birds from one building
or location, other birds are slow to move into the place.”

The people who fooliShly feed the pigeons also tend‘

to keep them in localized bands in that they generally feed
at the same place every day.

The people who so generously have hired Scott to do
his killing have had to operate on a sneak basis too. They

fear reprisals from the bird lovers in the form of con-‘

sumer strikes.

l

IT’S SAD THAT THESE good people can’t forget the
bird lovers, who even have formed organizations to protect
the pigeons. ’

The merchants and building owners should be free to rid
their property of the birds—not just because they make
property unsightly but also because they are a definite
health hazard. I

The American Medical Assn. is prepared to testify that
pigeons are capable of carrying and spreading half a dozen
diseases, some of them‘serious.

Among these is encephalitis, the deadly brain disease

that has struck in near epidemic proportions in St. Peters-

burg, Fla.

Othersa are histoplasmosis, an ailment resemblinga bad

TONY WEI TZEL

 

JOHN JUSTIN SMITH: He Wars on Pigeons to PrOteCt Your Health

cold; psittacosis, called‘ ‘parrot fever’ and like pneumoma,
toxoplasmosis, able to cause brain damage and bllndness
in unborn babies, and salmonella typh1mur1um, a food

poisoning. I . . ' l
‘ it it ’3! ‘

AND IF THIS ISN’TENOUGI—I‘ consider this: I<iéi§e6ns
in the city draw rats, capable of transmitting everything

up to and including bubonic plague.

This is why I wish Scott happy hunting and think the
merchants and others who have been warring on plgeons
should be decorated.

Perhaps Scott and other pigeon destroyers should be

engaged to fight an all-out battle against the dirty birds ii.-
throughout our city.

Little Billy Pierce Gets 3 aek On That Glory Trail

CHICAGOANS with a financial stake in the
Grand Bahama industrial project are watching
the island politicos closely. Come November the

womenfolk of the islands Will vote for the first
time. And there’s a chance the progressives
(native dominated) could upset the (business

backed) conservatives.

When I' climbed into a cab Monday afternoon the hackie
was listening to the Giants-Dodgers playoff on his radio.
The score was 8- 0, and he muttered,
happily, “It’s nice to see a good guy like
little Billy Pierce on the glory trail again!”

Amen.

GUY MARKS, late of the Glitter Gulch

cafes here, is a sudden hit on the Joey

. Bishop TV series. So Joey is having him

upgraded to a regular, and there’ll be a
new contract.

PERRY WOLFF, long-ago writer-pro-
ducer for CBS here, has a smash in his
“Smashing the Reich” film (CBS, which
invested in the project, is also happy).

ADD CBS: Patti Page is musing, out at the Sahara, over
a lush new offer from the net to come back and sign up a
video storm.

JACKIE GLEASON’S Parisian maSterWork, “Gigot,”
goes into the Loop theater, and the ad campaign Will be
but startling. I

LINDA DARNELL, still terching for. her estranged
hubby, signed to do a passel of Gotham beauty commercials.

. a :1: :1:
THE ADVERTISING magi are somewhat awed by Phil
Silvers’ new TV pact. He dealt with the sponsor direct, and
came away with a five-year sinecure.

YOU night-liters get your first peak at Britain’s reverse
lend- lease hum umor Tuesday at Second City. That’s when the
strolling, (or jetting, or whatever) players from London s
f‘The Establishment” take over (and our Chicago Second
City folk launch themselves in Soho). SAME night: Henny
Youngman opens his campaign for edual rights (for males)
at the Sherman House. ,

BROADWA Y’S beckoning to Libi Staiger of Mister
Kelly’s. She’s set for the lead in “Sophie,” due to hit the
main stem in April. Yarn is a belting biog of Sophie T ack-
ers early stru ggles in show biz.

I BROADWAY leericists report Liz Taylor gave Eddie

 

Fisher a poodle the night he opened at the Winter .Garden
Which seems to mean that 'Eddie finally got out of the
doghouse.

JIM FITZPATRICK of the famed hotel clan joins prexy
Irving Cowan of the Diplomat in Hollywood, Fla-., as
executive assistant. The spa opens a second golf course ‘ -
come December, and Cowan has booked such talent as
Bob Newhart, Peggy Lee, Buddy Hackett, Shelley Berman,
Jack E. Leonard and Eartha Kitt for the cabaret season.

ITEM: Latest double for Jack E. Leonard . . .‘ Bill
Siegman of Northwest Buick.

CHICAGO’S own private peace corps, the International I
Voluntary Service, is launching a film series out at the _
University of Chicago. They need money for an Algerian
orphanage.

HUMAN COMEDY: Novelist Adela Rogers St. Johns
father was a brilliant trial barrister who died in an L. A.
flophouse at 52. She wrote a book about him. Which just
sold to Stanley Kramer the film producer for a reported
$175,000. Possible star casting includes F. Sinatra as papa I'
Rogers, and Hayley Mills as the child Adela.

H’M: Comedian Alan King asked his 11-year-old what he '

wanted to be when he grew up. Said the lad “A doctor . . . 4,-

on television.”
UNDERSTAND mimic Mel Bla‘nc is doing those auto—

mobile commercials with deep feeling. A rampaging autO‘ 5,; 14...;

1,9”
* 3!! *h‘ ‘ .

almost put him out for keeps last year. . II} z, . g

 

MANNV .QKAD cianpd Tm“; Mart-in "f'nr it u Qahnra a; ‘5:-




ANIMAL TECHNICIANS ASSOCIATION

President : DR. H. H. HOLMAN, D.Sc., Ph.D., F.R.C.V.S.

Hon. Treasurer .° E. BERNARD, Hon. Secretary : G. H. FINDLAY,
The Nufﬁeld Institute for Medical Research, 21, Glebe Road,
Woodstock Road, ﬂ WELWYN, HERTS.
‘ Oxford. ‘

they

 




. 3.233; :32. g 2.333

.- ”5330 3353333333} 3
33333 2233333
3333333333 31.333333 .3

r-t‘

3.33 33:33 33333.

2.2333 333-.....12'3... '23 33337;? 33:33-- 33233323 3333:: 3333333 2:3'3 33.33 333323333; :33 3233: 33:3
323 3333: 233.3323. 333.33 333:2 33233-23323, 33-233 323 3.333323. 3.33 3.3+ 3333333123333 13 33323333323
'33:: 3:22.: '33.; 33333333333232: 3"“. 33.33.2323 '33:: 3:33 33323.2 3.3 3:33 3. 3:333: 3:333
‘ 5 333 3" 37‘33333 3?33 333% ”$33 333033! P33333333333 333=
:3 2:... :'..i' 2:333 :33 3333-333 .2 3.33.3 3.3 33333333: 3:? 32:3 23323 2122:3323 £333. ’
3.33.33: .3?“ . 3 .3 ;. :33 33:33:33? 333133 33333333333 '33:: 23333.: 33.33333 3333 33333.3 2.33:; 33.33
2:33 .........3.:'3:33'_ 3:23 "33:." 333:: 3.3:: 9333333333. 3.33:3 333:2 '33 3.333333%, ‘3‘". 3:23.33 '3
:33" 333332.33 3’63 2.3333 33:33:33 2.: '3 3323333333333 3.3: 32': 3233' ""~":.3'2;
" 233 22.33. 3213333: 333333. 2.3323: 3:333:33; :33 3.3233 33333333.; 3123’ 3.3333333
_ 's V 33" 333 323333; 3332333333333 '33:: 3:33: 3.333323 333133.333 1:32.33 '
”3.233933333323323. 2:33" ., 32332.: {3:23 3.23;: 3'. 3:33.33: 3.33.: 3...: 33:33:33. 3.333 32.33.2232 33:33
3333” 35:353. 4. '
"3 33:33333n3'33$m_3¢m 33333. -2&3m? 3'» U;' r3pur£.m<
3:33—33:33; "3:: 2:22:23 3333.33.33.3333333323332332.3333" 33:33:: 3.": 4...; 333‘ 1.3;. 11.12.33.
‘” “'4 E.i‘3033 $333 33 333 33“ '3' §"3< 33 33:3333 3&3
$1353 53“.? :3 a ‘ . '

333633333.

 




Ell. | L.| L.l_\( /\ ﬁll) <CICD hd F’l\lﬂ \’

INDIANAPOLIS 6, U.S.A. - MELROSE 6—22II
I

July 2, 1962

Miss Christine Stevens
Animal welfare Institute
22 East l7 Street

ﬂew York 3, ﬂew York

Dear Miss Stevens:

Please excuse my delcv in answerine tour letter of June 18 l 62.
J J C) )
I have been out of town so that at least provides an excuse.

We have n t been able to come up with a satisfactory monkey perch
for use in the individual wire cages. Nearly everything we have tried
has either proved ineffective or in some way interferes with the other
advantages of the cage. M nkeys chew up wooden perches, and metal ones
are no particular advantage. Each of the perches also interfere with
the movement of the false back. Frankly; I seriously doubt the desire«
ability of a perch anyway. We do not find that the cage makes the
animals uncomfortable, and a perch.merely interferes with their move-
ment inside the cage. Als each addition complicates the cage sani—
tary picture which is one of the chief advantages.

The automatic watering devices have been very satisfactory for
us. We like the fact that each animal has his own watering device
continuously available. Only seldom do we experience any difficulty
with their operation; and, of course, it is a big advantage not to
have to handle watering bottles each day. We have a man specifically
assigned to check each waterer at least once each week.

Hope to see you in Chicago.

Yours truly,
1..

Donald G. DeValoris, D.V.h.

 




01:1 1 0 111133; 51W

4..“

/W1de Indifference Seen
On Cruelty To Animals

Editor Of the Press Herald;

Have been reading with much interest
'letters to the Voice of the People on
pulling matches at the faiis by L..C Mc-
Kenney 01; Kezar Falls and Patricia Hayes
of Faimington
. I~ am told that we have a Humane
Society in this state, but have failed to
find out where they are, as I have written ,
to Augusta seveial times and have never
received a reply. I am a member of the
American Humane Society and proud of it,
and send them my dues each year. They
are doing a fine job and all those who
would like to belong I would be happy .
to give them the correct addiess Those
. of you interested in humane work should .

' read the recent article in the Satuiday —
Evening Post by Cleveland Amo1y Of
course we all know that people who enjoy

’ seeing things suffer are sadists of the '
worse kind.

There does not seem to be any use in
this state,,to write to any of the officials
(as they throw the letter in the waste:
basket, or will say they never received
it, at least that has been my experience.

The following is a quote from Rev.
Msgi. Leroy McWilliams-St. Thomas,the
great doctor and theologian “wains
about the p10pe1 use of annuals lest they
appear at the Final Judgment ag ainst us.’
“And God himself” will take vengeance .

j “on all who misuse His creatures." \

A..W Teelz

Rockland

 




; ‘ s, _ v
N}! aim.

DAYIG ;’ 12...
DAY. l0: Gull 0 \
D. lguﬁrlu S 189, 33;»

AUG 2 o 1963 5:- gig;

Legislation Answer

To Animal Nightmare

31 am writing in regards to a recent
letter concerning inhumane treatment
of animals. I had no idea that such a
condition existed anywhere in the
world, least of all in this country» My
father always said, “If you can. miss
treat an animal, you can mistreat a
baby. ” I believe this is so

I realize that was are necessaiy
to science and that many medicines
and vaccines are pioduced to help us
this way. But there must be some-
thing done immediately to stop unnec~
essary pain and needless torture of
these animals. To think that there are
animals suffering untold agony with“
out reason makes me sick.

I have not slept well and I hope othm
ers don’t sleep well either until these

bills (Clark-Neuberger $533 and Ashley
' HR 5430) are put into effect and not ‘
just left pending. I hope people will
write to Rep. Paul Schenck, senators.“
the governor, ministers and even the
President.

Perhaps this will help put an end to
this nightmare for our little friendst

Dayton. MRS. R. H. PATRICK.

 




.‘\ ‘7 1' \ "Hf \XAHH'K

NEWSuPRESS, Sunday August 25, 1963

St. Joe ph, Missouri « 1 ,4
is iwvﬂteurmﬂ efgsw'wﬂ

‘S

Home Ec Doctorate
to Esther Brown

Miss Esther Louise Brown, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Curtis
E. Brown, 2819 Doniphan avenue, has just completed her doctorate
in the area of nutrition at the cellege of home economics at Michir
gan State UniVersity, East Lansing. She has accepted a teaching
position in the division of foods and nutrition in the department of
ham economics at the University at Illinois, Unbana, for the 1963-
{"64 term ' 1‘

Miss Brown is a graduate of
Central High School and St. Jo-
seph Junior College. She received
her bachelor of science degree in .
home economics education from
Iowa State University, Ames, and
returned to St. Joseph to teach at
Bliss Junior High School. Later
she became associated with the
dairy industry in its nation-wide
community nutrition education
program through the National
Dairy Council. With the dairy in-
/1dustry she served communities in
[Greater Kansas City, EvanSville,
Ind., and the national office in
Chicago.

‘ Miss Brown obtained her mas-
ter’ 8 degree in public health nutri-
tion from the University of Michi-
gan, Ann Arbor, after which she
\became associated with the Michi-
gan department of health, serv-
ing as a consultant Miss Brown’s

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

MISS ESTHER L. BROWN

 

[dissertation for her doctorate was
“The Effect of Feeding Excess
Thiamine iii the Basal‘Ration of
the Albino Rat. ” A

DOCtor Brown’s professional af-
filiations include Sigma Delta
Epsilon; graduate women’s scien-
tific fraternity; Delta Omega, na-
tional public health honorary so-
ciety, and the American Dietetic
Association. She is also ~-a vocal-
ist," having appeared in various
musical comedies and operatic
productions, choral work and in
solo performances.

Prior to moving to Urbana,
MiSs Brown will visit her parents
in; St Joseph. They will celebrate
their 50th wedding anniversary

15ers!» 2

 

 

 

 

 

 




MANCHESTER, N Ht

 

Cruelty to Animals

To the Editors: A iecent’aiticle by Cleve«
land Amory in the SaturdaV L1 01111101 Post,
“Science is Needlessly Ciuel to Animals,”
again points up the need for effective legisla-
tion to piotect “dumb” animals f1om savage
man Mr. Amory s voice is a welcome addi-
tion to the 1anks of those who can feel only
revulsion and shame toward the methods now
employed in Ame1ica s research lal1orato1ies.
His accounts of the staivation of dogs (‘some
took 65 days to die” ), theii being (1’11‘ced to
inhale flame, as well as other n1oxe“ad-
vancedbexperiments on the estimated 100
000 000 animals now being used in the name
of science beggars the imagination.

Nor has testimony from other sources been
less shocking. At a congressional public
. hearing held last year, humane workers quot-
ed directly not from their own reports, but
from those of the researchers themselves. Ex-
periments in which animals were burned and
then deprived of post- -experimental care to
relieve their suffering, starvation studies, .\
beatings and restraining devices to which con<
scious animals are confined for months were
but a few of the procedures of modern re-

search that were described in carefully docu- ' I

merited testimony.

I would recommend to the attention of all _,
concerned with the abuses now being perpe-
trated on helpless animals a free pamphlet,
“Without Protection,”vwhich may be obtained
by writing the National Catholic Society for
Animal Welfare, Washington, D. C.

As responsible citizens we would do well
to consider that the inhumane conditions
under which animal experimentation is con-
ducted today are paid for by our! tax dollars.
No one objects to supporting progress, but .
the regression that is an integral part of pres— ’
ent laboratory methods deserves neither the
support nor the sanction of any thinking
1 persons

(Atty.) ALFRED J. CHRETIEN.
Manchester. '

 




ANIMAL TECHNIC IAN ECTURE NOTE .

 

meﬂmgz

QECTUFES I -~ XX

 

 




QEEENTSLsUIEEEQHNI QEQLEEQEUTEEEEEEL" ELﬁLmﬂﬁYa

NO.

Noe

NO.

NO.

1

II

'..:8‘

Introductionc

Externals of Common.Laboratory.lnimals
Handling

Housing

Caging and Feedinngquipment

Bedding

Methods of Feeding and'Watering
Importance of Green.Foods

Recognition oﬂ Signs of Infestation and Deterioration in
Foodstuffso

Sexing CommonjLaboratory,ﬁnimals

Identification

Recognition of Good Breeding_Animals
Signs of Ill Health in.Laboratory Animals
Correct Methods oijilling

Cleaning and Sterilizing of Cages
Personal Hygiene

PersonaliDiscipline

Constant Room.Temperature
WeighingiMachines

The AveragejNormal Temperature and Pulse Rate of some
Common Laboratory Animals.

Useful References.

 




_ x :. r ‘ v“: *1: , -;
seem-mo m has Jeers:

 

Eljﬁhhﬂﬁiidif
.Jr -1: :c.’

I. n‘ 8-5.3»...IL'J.‘ "I ” .x

Leqturewﬁsgil:
Tntroduction.

The species most commonly used in laboratories are mice, rats
rabbits, guinea pigs, dogs, cats, monkeys and frong, all of which
are vertebrates i.e. have a backbone. This section of the animal
kingdom is known as vertebrata and includes, mammals, birds,
reptiles and fishes. '

The other section of the animal kingdom, less commonly used in
laboratories and known as invertebrate, includes all forms that have
no spinal column.

These notes deal with mammals only, that is vertebrate animals
which suckle their youngo,

Classifieatipno

c4. aarrcda. ‘-

1

The common laboratory species are classed as follows;

a) Bird.

Um“-‘.‘; :‘I

This is the general name for a feathered animal. The common
laboratory species of bird are: fowl, duck, pigeon and canary.

b) .Qareeveeea~

All flesh eating animals belong to this order, such as the
dog, fox, ferret and mink.

0) lasestivereso

These are insect eating mammals, usually small in size and
terrestrial and nocturnal in habit.

The common laboratory Species are: the HuroPean hedgehog and the
shrew.

a) hememsmo

Lagomorphs are often confused with, and actually classed as
rodents. There is, however, a difference in the two orders. Rabbits
and hares are classed under the order of lagomorphs. The anatomical
difference between rodents and lagamorpha is mainly the formation of
the incisors. Lagomorphs are herbivores, e.g. grass eating mammals.
e) Primates.

cauth‘.‘ ,. .r.

This is the highest order of mammals and includes such species as

 




 

ELEMENEAE:

 

gesture No . II

 

.ggtergals oﬂ Commonibaboratory.Animals;

_Introductigg.

 

In order to describe the externals of common laboratory animals,
it is essential to have available for demonstration the living
Specimens, When it is impossible to obtain certain species, or
inconvenient to use them, coloured lantern slides should be used to
illustrate the special features of the animal.

The externals of each species will vary considerably, but the
basic principles to be outlined will remain constant throughout. The
lecture should, therefore, cover the following points:

Shape of animal ( e.g. a long cylindrical body).

Type of fur.

Description of head, (e.g. large or small, description of snout,
nostrils, mouth, jaws, eyes, ears, pinnae and vibrissae).

Type of neck, giving special features e.g. long, short or strong
as in carnivores . .

Description of trunk. Flexibility of spine, etc.

Description of the tail and its functiono

Position of the anus.

Position of the urinary and genital apertures in the female.
Description of the mammary glands and the number of nipples.
Position of the urinegenital aperture, penus and scrotal sacs

in the male.

Description of the limbs i.e. size, length, differences in length
of fore and rear limbs; digits, whether clawed or otherwise;
number of pads, where such pads exist.

'Weight and overall measurements of a fully grown adult animal.

 




,, mmcmmcmmgwg;

 

£ﬂﬂ¥g
aemaaagg

Handling _

xaaacma

The prOper method of handling animals cannot be taught by
lecturing. Good practical demonstration is the only method, the
following notes, therefore, deal with the theory of handling animals.

"The importance of handling animals in the correct manner cannot
be overrated. ImprOper handling may result in injury to the animal,
to the technician himself or, most important of all, to the animal—man
relationship" (Short, D.J., UFAW Handbook).

The use of forceps or leather gloves should be discouraged, unless
circumstances warrant it, i.e. infected animals or monkeys, when there

is a danger of the technician being infected by a biteo

Pregnant animals should be handled with extra care and only when
absolutely necessary.

.§B§Q§E§a

ﬂ %&

"*

Lift the animal by a firm grip of the Skin at the nape of the neck.

For examination place the animal on a table, bring it close to your
chest, place both arms over the animal‘s back and using both hands, grasp
the four legs, placing one or two fingers between the legs, thereby
gaining complete control of the legs. Then place the animal with the
head under one of your arms, bringing it under complete control so that
it can neither bite nor scratch.

a ﬁkgm

GraSp the bird from above with both hands across the back, then
slide the palm of one hand under the breast placing the first and
second fingers between its legs. Grip both thighs and wing tips with
the thumb and third and fourth fingers, bend the arms and so lift the
bird.

®.£e

Make friends with the dog before attempting to handle it.

'When the animal cannot be approached, use a length of light conduit
tubing with a strong soft rcpe running through it. Make a large 100p
at one end and gently slip it over the animal’s head, gently tighten it

 




until the light tubing is close to the animal's neck. By this

method you keep the dog: ~1t 5; safe distance until you have befriended him°
If he is still inclined to bite,a 12" bandage in the form of a half
hitch can be placed around his jaws and tied to his collar. The dog can
now be handled with ease. These bandages should be used for short
duration only.

(1) 13:11 -

The animal should be grasped firmly around the neck with the thumb
and fingers meeting under the jaw; pressure need not be applied, but
the thumb should be kept well under the animal's jaw to prevent it
biting. The other hand should be used to support the animal.

e) Guinea Pjr

Place either hand well up across the shoulders (do not apply
pressure) with the thumb behind a front leg and fingers well forward on
Opposite side. 1void pressure on the abdomen, work fingers gently under
the animal and lift clear of the floor simultaneously placing free hand
palm uppermost under the hind quarters to take the weight.

1) Hamsters
. Handle over a benahor table because they are liable to jump and
injure themselves by falling.

Two methods are suggested:~

1. For inspection or transferring from cage to cage, use both hands
to form a cup over and around the animal, then gently press him
with the palms of the hand.

For single handed manipulation, graSp the loose fold of Skin
behind the neck with the thumb and forefinger, then control the
animal by holding one hind leg between the thumb and forefingers.

£) Mouse;

The temperament of the animal must be the guide to the method of
handling. A docile mouse may be picked up by placing the fingers
under the animal and gently easing it into the palm of the hand. in
excitable mouse may be picked up by the base of the tail with the thumb
and forefinger. This method should be used for sexing mice.

For single handed manipulation place the animal on a rough surface,
pick up by the loose skin at the nape of the neck holding the tail
between the small finger and the palm of the hand.

h) ﬁrmer,

Due to the infections caused by monkey bites it is advisable to use
_ gloves when handling strange monkeys.

One method'of handling is to use a box large enough for the monkey

 




3.

to crawl into but not large enough for him to turn around in. The
box should be fitted with sliding doors at both ends. .At one end the
door should be transparent (perspex). Place the box with the Opaque
door against a small Opening in the cage, remove Opaque door, remove
cage Opening, the animal can then be induced to crawl into the box.
This he will readily do because the transparent door appears to be an
escape route.

When the animal is in the box, slide on the other door, then place
the box on a table or bench. Remove Opaque door, slide hand up the
back of the animal, graSp the arms together and pull the shoulders
back and withdraw the animal from the box. This ensures perfect
control over the animal, it also allows the handler one free hand.

i) Rabbit.

The rabbit must be handled gently but firmly, otherwise he will
struggle and possibly injure himself. '

Lift the animal by grasping the loose skin over the shoulders,
simultaneously place the other hand under the hind legs. Never place
a rabbit on a slippery surface because he cannot get a foothold and
will struggle especially if he is receiving treatment.

.3 3g} SNorvegiousz

A frightened rat will bite. Give the animal time to realize it is
going to be handled. Remove the cage from the rack or Open the cage
door for a few minutes, the animal will then come forward and can be
handled with ease.

Place the hand, palm downwards over the animal's back, with the
thumb and forefinger around the neck; place the remaining fingers
around the body, then firmly but gently lift him. A vicious rat may
be picked up by the tail, placed on the handlers free forearm, allowed
to settle for a few minutes a d then handled in the prescribed manner.

A lactating femaleamst be given time to leave her nest before being
picked up.

k) milccamm

To catch a cotton rat, pass the hand over the animal’s back with the
thumb and forefinger, grasp the loose fold of skin at the nape of the
neck. The movement should be slow and deliberate. A cotton rat will
not bite until you have actually grasped him, therefore, it is
important to grasp him in the prescribed manner.

These animals can jump two feet vertically from a standing
position, so it is advisable to place them in a bin to practice handling.

 




.1) inane

These agile and slippery animals present certain difficulties
When being handled. To catch large numbers of them c small net
of'5 mm. mesh is-useful. ’ ’

Frogs and toads may be picked up by placing one hand over the
animal's beck, placing the forefinger between the hind legs and
closing the hand.

 




ﬁIEEiNJ-JCDIC m memories.

 

Féélmisﬁl
sinusoidal};
ESEEEES
amateurish
Prime consideration to be given to the selection of such materials
as would provide maximum insulation against extremes of temperature.
To be impervious against vermin i.e. cavity walls of brick, concrete
or breeze blocks. '

inierloxiellaandaC sittings

To be finished with a smooth surface and painted with a high
gloss washable paint.

Eloors;

To be constructed of a material impervious to acids etc. All
corners to be rounded to facilitate cleaning. The floor to be slepe
towards a drain or gulley for easy washing down.

Eindows 9.

Size to be minimised; double glazed where possible, placed high to
allow maximum use of walls for racking.

mum iaLLight ins aniszicipmac points...

 

Normal artificial lighting, all switches to be fitted with time
control switches. At least two electric points for electrical apparatus.

Water.

Hot and cold water; one small sink unit. Cold tap with hose fitting
approximately three feet from the floor. .

3EEH§§¥EE£§EL
Thermostatically controlled heating:
Minimum temperature 65°F. Maximum temperature 72°F.
liEEliﬁmo
Air intake facilities and circulation should be considered. A
uniform distribution of fresh air is best accomplished from a single
point intake fed mechanically through a duct and entering the animal

room at floor level. Ducts proportioned in size, evenly Spaced through~
out the building to provide a positive pressure will ensure constant ‘

 




exhaust of foul siro

Rieks

They must not rest on the floor, but should be suspended from
the ceiling or fixed to the wall by brackets. These must be
convertible, adjustable, and easily dismantled for cleaning and
sterilizing if necessary.

Small tiers of racks on casters can be wheeled from room to
room cnd.;re nest convenient.

 




;ANIMAL insanigiiN LECTURE NOTES

 

EQEEEEE§§£
ifﬁﬂﬂﬂgiggialla

sagigs and Seeding,EQUipmea§g

 

Type of Cage.

The selection of typeswﬁidesign of cage must depend upon the
species and the purpose for which they are to be used.

Prime consideration must be given to animal comfort, adequate
floor space, simplicity in feeding and watering, acCess to the animal
to facilitate handling and so designed to simplify cleaning.

.Materials.

 

Metal, plastic, wood or a combination of these materials may be
used. Metal cages demand additional animal body heat, but where daily,
weekly, or bi~weekly sterilizing is indicated metal is preferable to
other materials.

Opinions are not in agreement with the recommended use of wooden
_boxes, yet the wooden box is less costly, the production per mated pair
is greater and the animal comfort is superior. They are less noisy,
whiCh is important with highly nervous strains of animals.

The question of wire grids versus solid floored cages would depend
upon circumstances, i.e. the species, what the animals are used for.

Esssiésasi

Species No. of.inimals Floor irea Cage Size
Cat and litter 6 sq. ft. 5j X 23 X 18”
Ferret . and litter 4~6 sq. ft. 3’ X 2’ X 12“
Guinea pig and litter 150 sq. ins. 'Various
Hamster and litter 48~6O sq. ins. 12” X 5” X 6“
Mouse Breeding pair 48~60 sq. ins. 12” X 5" x 6”
Rabbit 9 and litter agv sq. ft. 4! x 18" x 18"
Rat (Norvegiousg a and litter 140 sq. ins. 14" x 1 " x 10“
Rat (Norvegious Breeding pair 168 sq. ins. 14“ X 12" X 10"

.— 1.3.131 ‘st’z..1:. : t. .avxf :I...&.'fu‘.:a_.zr:ﬂ

Rat (Cotton) 9 and litter 140 sq. ins. 14" x 1 " x 10"
Other small
rodents 9 and litter 140 sq. ins. 14" X 10" X 10"

m- n. v.- v.2- ’3 --».~ 9-».- m- a. -~-.~‘»t nu ‘1.“.’_gu"“- a... g-m‘. ﬁ-m rm mun

 

’ lu‘WSz. :ma’m m .m’m; TLM:_'&..'.‘T.'..-‘.VJ 3':

.Esaéinsiﬂqnp§£§

 

The control of bacterial infection is vital in the breeding and

 




maintenance of laboratory animals, therefore preper and adequate food
receptacles must be given serious consideration°

Individual suspended Wire baskets or depressed wire mesh
containers in the lids or cages are practical methods of feeding rodents.
This principle cannot be applied to guinea pigs and rabbits where
pelleted food is used. Pellet hOppers must be designed to allow the
animal access to the food, yet prevent waste. '

aterlnsDeraaasi

1 simple, safe and efficient arrangement is to provide water in an
inverted glass bottle with glass tubing attached by means of rubber bung
or a plastic cap. '

The size of the bottle must depend on the species for which it is
to serve, theciesign of the cage must also be considered. "Where the
cage design does not include facilities for drinking bottles a wire
bottle holder is recommended. Drinking bottles should be in a position
so that they are under constant View.

Routine water servicing may be simplified with the use of a portable
water device. It is recommended wherever possible to provide water
bottles large enough to hold a few days water supply. “When replenished
the bottles should be replaced by sterile freshly filled ones.

 




mam TECHNIC LﬂjﬂC TUBE

ELEMENTAE;

 

 

harass, N0 Vlg.

Bedding;

$311,743: .2 3.1-".-

liﬂﬂlhhllllﬂﬂ

It is suggested that small laboratory animals be maintained on
wire mesh grids, over trays into Which all feacal matter dr0ps.
When specific -Xneriments require it this action is justifiable, but
pregnant and lactating animals must be given some sort of material
with which to make a has 0 Cannibalism has, on occasions, been
attributed to lack cf beddingo

Tyresaf Beddiasa
1) aaaaaeaaeaas
a) sagas; ,,
Care should be exercised in the use of this material, inferior
sawdust being a source of infectiona Soft wood sawdust is recommended‘

and it should be dry and absorbent.

Supplies should be obtained from a saw mill where the sacks are
filled direct from the sawdust extractor chute.

The floors of cages and trays should be covered to a depth of
one inch.

\ .1 .
b) Essdaass a 8. wanes ,

Teak, mahogany and other hardwoods are nor recommended; they may
be harmful, because of the phenolic substances found in resinous woods.

4- ” 4 ' - 4-
0) Peat hose Litterc
“mum. ..I=~.‘.r..x—.:zc .3222”: 8.“;tr .91. I'JIIEL‘CS—“I

Granulated peat moss litter is considered a superior bedding
material to sawdust. It is impervious to attack by mite, beetles,
etc., it has a high acid ccntent Which delays the decomposition of
faecal matter and the release of ammonias If used in a similar manner
to sawdust, the cages and trays have to be cleaned less frequently.

d) Straws

sun-.3.- a.n:.:-:r: .

A layer of clean catwstrcw on tOp of sawdust or peat moss litter
may be used for guinea pigs and rabbitso

It is recommended that oatmstraw should be chOpped to a degree of
fineness otherwise sharp hard ends may injure the animal‘s eyes. The

 




coarser wheat and barley straws are not recommended.
2) liaatieslhianialso

a) angina-o
Fine wood wool as used for fruit packing is good nesting material
for rodentso

'Wood wool is normally delivered in bales weighing approximately
one hundredmeisht. The bales are packed by a high degree of pressure
which makes the completed bale impervious to attacks by vermin. The
baling process is carried out as the wood is out, therefore the
possibility of contamination is reduced to a minimum.

Some workers have found that wood wool gives off fine dust which
is irritating to rats°

b) grandam

Clean shredded paper is highly recommended for nesting material.
Shredded paper is obtainable from Printers at a very reasonable rate.
A special shredded paper used for food packing is also obtainable,
although slightly more expensive.

0) Straw (See Maintenance Bedding (d) ).

(1) heads?! . Hay.»

 

Normally used for feedinga Meadow hay does, however, make a good
bed for breeding rabbits and especially during cold weather, as the
soft hay makes a close and warm nest for the young.

3) .EesdiasEngagingdeclareso

To ensure their arrival in good condition, animals in transit must
be treated with special care.

In all travelling boxes place a layer of at least two inches of
softwood sawdust or peat moss litter with a liberal covering of wood
wool, shredded paper or soft hay depending on the Species of animal.

Three points to bear in mind:-

a) Sufficient bedding to counteract shock caused by handling, the
crates.

b) Sufficient sawdust to absorb moisture.

c) To provide privacy for the animals from interested spectators.

z.) ggdgingjor Baeriacatgilaimals.

Paper, cotton wool and certain other materials can be used for
experimental animals,

 




Post Operative animals may be given a liberal supply of
sterile cotton wool. Such animals usually feel sick and like a
chance to hide away in a comfortable bed until the sickness
recedes. ‘

Sterile shredded parchment paper may be used but it is not
so comfortable for the animal.

The sterile materials minimise the danger of infection.

Animals on nutritional experiments may be deprived of any form
of bedding but should be put in a clean cage with wire grids.

Dry inland sand, if available, can be usedmdjhsafety in many
experiments.

sagas

All bedding materials must be stored in verminproof buildings
and if possible, in large bins. Surplus bedding material should never
be returned to the main store from an animal room, undetected
contamination may have occurred°

.§£§£i$lédEiﬁgo

As an added precaution and where facilities are available all
materials used for bedding should be sterilized directly it is ;
received and before being put into the bedding store.

Risraaal-

Uninfected bedding may not generally be regarded as a source of
danger or infection, it should, nevertheless, be burned with all
other materials removed from the cages.

Soiled bedding should be transported from the cage cleaning point
to the incinerator in closed bins°

Sterilization of all infected bedding with the cages must be
regarded as a necessary routine. After sterilization the bedding
should be removed immediately and burned. The cage manually cleaned
and re~sterilized.

All bins and utensils used in the process of cage cleaning must
be sterilized after use.

EEEEEESZ:

l. Procure bedding from a reliable source.

2. Sterilize all bedding before use.

3. Use soft wood sawdust only.

#. Peat moss litter to be used in preference to sawdust.

5. Dry inland sand may be used in certain circumstances.

6. Fine woodwool or shredded paper is recommended as a nesting
material for rodents.

 




Sterile cotton wool or shredded paper is recommended to
be used for bedding post Operative animals,

Store bedding in rodent—proof building.

Adequate bedding in travelling boxes.

Sterilize all infected bedding prior to handling and
burning._

 




ANIMAL TECHNICIAN LECTURE NOTES
ELEMENTARX

gagisreiNOegfll

 

Methods of Feeding and'Watering.

laiaedastﬁaao .

Animals inherit certain qualities, but the develOpment of these

- qualities depends on their environment and the greatest factor in the
environment is food. Food habits have been gradually built up through
the selection of available foods in the area colonized by the particular
species. Such an area we now refer to as the natural habitat.

It would be wrong, however, to assume that habit is.a safe guide in
the selection of an adequate diet, in fact, this assumption can lead to
dangerous mistakes. '

To—day, the situation in a modern laboratory is entirely different.
Animals in captivity do not have the Opportunity of selecting food
stuffs and in many cases the animals are not offered a selection.

Modern methods of animal feeding have been develOped through the
knowledge of nutrition. This knowledge, rightly understood and
. intelligently applied, provides a sound foundation for the production of
~adequate diets in cube or pellet form°

Cube and pellet diets have revolutionized the methods of feeding
laboratory animals. Some of these will be described in detail, as will
also the method of supplying drinking water. ‘Hater and food are of
equal importance and a captive animal must never be deprived of either;

. It is an impossibility to provide an animal with the actual amount
of food or water it may eat or drink at a given time. It is, therefore,
necessary to provide a reservoir for food and water to which the animal
has free access at all times. If such reservoirs are not provided food
has to be placed on the floor of the cage and will very quickly become
soiled and unpalatable. 'Water in Open drinking pots also becomes
contaminated With urine and faeces, which may be a source of infection
and affect the health of the animals.

Food and water must, therefore, be supplied in receptacles which
not only prevent fouling but also give the animal free access, enabling
it to eat and drink at will. ' ‘

feedmaﬁeamﬁ

Food may be offered in any of the following forms: cubes, pellets,
dry powder, moist mash, whole grains, green leaves, roots or hay.¢

The choice er feeding utensils will, therefore, depend on the

 




physical preperties of the diet.

a) _Qube Basketg.

 

To feed rats and mice on cubes, baskets of various designs are
used but irres ective of design they should have at least two features
in common. (1 They must be placed in such a position as to allow
very young animals to reach the food. (2) The mesh or holes should
be oblong in the vertical sense and at least 1/4“ wide to enable the
animals to gnaw the cubes.

‘0) EQ—algtﬂoniets

Pellet heppers are used for feeding rabbits and guinea pigs. The
hepper must be designed to prevent wastage by scattering, therefore, the
feeding Opening must be large enough fer the animal to get its head into
but small enough to prevent it from getting its front paws into it. This
is particularly important with the rabbit because it is prone to scatter
‘food with its front paws. Pellets are also fed to poultry but the feeding
arrangement is very simple. A trough is fixed to the outside of the cage
and the bird puts its head through the bars of the cage to reach the food.

0) lessees Esta

Cats and dogs should be given their food in heavy earthenware pots.
Dry powder may also be given in an earthenware pot, but to prevent
scattering an earthenware disc with holes large enough to allow the
animal to eat through should be placed on tOp of the food. Dry powder
may also be fed in pots secured to the side of the cageo These pots
should beiﬂiﬁmﬁiwith screw cap lids which have one hole large enou1h for
the animal to get his head into.

There is a considerable variety of earthenware feeding pets but they
must all have the following features to be practicable: heavy enough to
prevent the animals tipping them, designed with an inward lip to reduce
scattering, "arge enough to hold sufficient food, yet small enough to
prevent the animal using them as sleeping quarters.

<1) Hmsasha:

Hay should be fed in small wire baskets attached to the inside of the
cage, or on the outside if the wire mesh of the cage is such that it will
allow the animals to pull the hay through. The baskets not only keep the
hay clean but also save this commodity, the use of which is often abused.

A practical demonstration should be given of the various feeding
utensils.'Where this'is impracticable, lantern slides should be used to
illustrate the points outlined in the lecture notes, ' ‘

e) newsmalsesels.
Drinking water must be available to all animals at all times,

therefore, water vessels should always hold more water than the-animals
will normally drink before the next replenishing time.

 




Dogs and cats should be given water in heavy earthenware pots,
all other species of small laboratory animals should be given water
bottles which are fitted with corks, bungs, screw caps or plastic
caps, through which a canula or drinking tube is inserted. Bottles
may be either on tOp of the cage (many cages have an indentation
specially designed to hold bottles) or suSpended from the side in a
small bottle holder.

The water bottle should be inserted and the oanula or drinking
tube allowed to protrude inside the cage. It is of the utmost
importance to ensure that the end of the drinking tube does not come
into contact with bedding, otherwise water will syphon out and flood
the cage. It is equally important to ensure that the end of the tube
is in a position where the smallest and weakest animal can reach it.

Bottles may be made of plastic or glass, if plastic ones are used
they must be placed in a position where the animals cannot gnaw them.

Canulas or drinking tubes should be made of pyrex glass, brass or
stainless steel.

Another method of supplying water is to use glass jars with screw
on metal tops. .A minute hole is bored in the metal tOp and the jar is
inverted on tOp of the cage. This type is not very satisfactory for a
young and weak animals because they have difficulty in reaching the
water.

The following sizes of drinking bottles have been recommended:-

m '1’”, n. 33:1.‘2nx‘mm'l , f..,.,.... a...” a—~ , *0. L‘“;J.t'f' .. A A.._ u. -.g~. -1, ~—--

Species Size of bottle I. Number of.dnimals.

 

Cat ‘3 pint pot
Dog pint pot
Ferret a pint pot
Guinea pig 500 cc. bottle
Hamster 6 oz. bottle
Monkey 500 cc. bottle
Mouse 6 oz bottle
Mouse 12 oz bottle
Rabbit 500 cc. bottle
Bat 10 — 12 oz bottle Breeding pairs and
litters.
Bat 12 oz. bottle 4 adults

I‘D

FJ¥‘RDFJ¥‘V4FJFJFJ
1
HP mrw

1:; .8

 

ht:£-l'..:8..—-'t'. .. K“. .321. “W: .szwi‘rld 23‘ 132‘.) v '1 a mu “w—fji".’_d‘ax;¥:m2u .J 31.1: .5—3 ram—u'm't: :3 .x.-a~<;m;x:-&-&_‘v‘._¢mzm:- ~




arrest TECHNICIAN LECTURE NOTES
“Sign .A ...u.muu:u.:a;;: ”1.; .3 . .IL’au-‘Su‘xlt. 33:231.}; -l .1;-.w..3_.0t2 unassimr ‘

ELEMEEEAEK

 

heaters N0» 113.13;-

 

Nairltlss
lap ariaasasfiirasaiaois .

leisoiuetiel

About 65 years ago Dr° Theobald.Smith, when using guinea pigs
to test the virulence of certain organisms was getting irregular
results; two of his guinea pigs were killed by an innoculaticn which
they should have been able to resist. In searching for the cause of
this susceptibility he found it in the diet the animals were receiving
and in his annual report for 1894~95 he wrote:-

"The death of No. 254 was, undoubtedly, due to the absence of
such (green) food as the attendant had neglected to provide after
the disappearance of grass in the fall of the year" ' '

Not only were these animals unusually susceptible to infection
but Dr. Smith noted a “peculiar disease" which he described as follows:-

“When guinea pigs are fed cereals (bran and oats mixed) without
any grass, clover or succulent vegetables such as cabbage, a peculiar
disease, chiefly recognisable by subcutaneous extravasation of blood
that is haemorrhages under the skin, killed them off in four to eight
weeks". --

It was some ten years later before some Norwegian workers found
that a disease very prevalent among sailors on long voyages was
identical in its symptoms to this peculiar disease, described by Dr.
Smith. This disease we know to-day as scurvy, which can be cured by
green foods such as cabbage or more Spectacularly by orange or lemon
juice.

Some 25 years elapsed after the recognition of human scurvy as
vitamin deficiency disease before the substance responsible for its
prevention and cure was finally separated from foods, identified as
chemical compound of known structure and was given the name vitamin
as it was the third vitamin to be recognised.

Domestic animals such as_pcultry, swine, cattle and laboratory
animals, such as rats, mice and rabbits manufacture (or synthesise
their own vitamin C. There are, however, three Species of animals
which do not manufacture their own vitamin C and they are humans,
monkeys and guinea pigs._ Scurvy, which has been recognised as a‘

C deficiency disease, can be cured or prevented by feeding green food
or citrus fruits. This is proof that these feeds contain a high.
percentage of vitamin C. It is therefore essential that guinea pigs
are provided with an adequate supply of fresh, palatable green food,
and equally important for monkeys to be given liberal supplies of

 




fresh green food or citrus fruits.

The symptoms of scurvy are: soreness and stiffness of the joints
swelling and bleeding of the gums and haemorrhages under the skin in
various parts of the body.

a1 subarea

In contrast to popular belief, the guinea pig is quite fastidious
regarding green food. Several workers have reported that guinea pigs
have actually died from scurvy, although green food containing
adequate amount of vitamin C was being offered.

In selecting green food, palatability is of prime importance,
when it is observed that the animals do not eat the green food
offered, it should be changed immediately. The change over should,
however, be tempered with discretion and where the animals have been
eating little or no green food, it is advisable to limit the amount
given, gradually increasing, until the animals are receiving adequate
amounts to supply the necessary amount of vitamin C.

All green food should be well washed and the surplus water allowed
to drain away before being fed. ~

360 omasadaiioas .f..arw1:se<1issw

 

Green food can be a source of trouble, causing intestinal upset
and introducing infections. It is, therefore, important that the
following recommendations are adhered to:~

a) gggegy Food

'Wash all greens. The food may look clean, but it n.;°y have
been soiled by pig eons in the field or in transit by dog cats or wild
rodentso

b) sense "31th wreenu
Cut grass very quickly becomes hot and mouldy, therefore, if
grass is being fed it must be freshly cut.

Brassica (plants of the cabbage family) become yellow and wilted
especially in hot weather. All yellow and mouldy leaves must be
removed and the cabbage submerged in water for some time, then washed
in the prescribed manner.

0) Leaieii‘maee:

Green food which has been subjected.to heavy frost should be
cut at least 24.hours before it is required and allowed to thaw at<
normal temperature ~ approximately 600? u IFrosted greens should be
spread out on a clean floor in a vermin proof root. Never feed
frosted greens. -

 




Poisonous92lents.

 

Cut grass may contain certain poisonous plants. The toxity of
some may be acute, others accumulative° It is wise, therefore, to
avoid putting into the cage any plant which is of a doubtful natureo
The list of poisonous plants is quite extensive, but such plants are
not normally encountered in grass which has been cultivated for
feeding purposes. It is therefore advisable to avoid using grass
cut from waste lend.

iﬂgﬂiﬂ 2.

Green food is necessary for the species mentioned because it
supplies vitamin C, which is an essential vitamin. It must be
palatable, fresh and clenH It should be stored in racks or Wire
mesh hampers in s vermin proof roomo

 




;NIM§%LTECHQEQI;N LECTURE NOTEL

.L
mm

 

mammal

LgptureiNo. EX

 

mm ’-“-

dim ‘ Kiss. of “has: a Inf‘es in tanned... D aims riorsiioa is} seasiculfflsn

Introduction

To maintain a colony in good health it is important to ensure
that the animals are given good diet, Scientific workers have carried
out long and arduous investigations on the right constituents to be
included in a good diet but it is the technician who has to ensure that
the prescribed diet is fed in perfect condition.

Storage Rooms andﬂgingé

All foodstuffs must be stored in a dry, well ventilated vermin proof
room. It is advisable not to store foodstuffs in large bins for long
periods because they quickly deteriorateo

Rooms must be kept clean otherwise.small particles of food collect
and quickly become infected with mites. Bins must also be cleaned
regularly, it is advisable to have such bins autoclaved (where possible)
before refilling. 'ﬁhen autoclaving facilities are not available the bins
should be thoroughly hosed out and disinfected with boiling water. This
should be poured in to depth of a few inches and left for approximately
10 minutes to kill any mites which might have collected around the joints.
The bins must be absolutely dry before refilling.

Food_affected by_damp

 

Green mould is the most obvious sig of deterioration by dampo
There are. however, many earlier signs of deterioration and it is the
earlier, less obvious signs WliCh are the dangerous ones. These less
conspicuoussigns may go undetected until the health of the colony is
affectedo

Gubes and pellets may either disintegrate or be closely bound to-
gether in lumps. Such food should be discarded and the Whole consignment
inspected and if affected returned to the supplier. Cereals affected
by damp will be slightly swollen and much darker in colour than normal
cereals. Hay will smell musty and when shaken.out Will be found to
contain large amounts of white dust. ‘

Food contaminated by Animals

 

Dogs, cats and Wild rodents may introduce an infection through soil—
ing foodstuffs offered to other animals.

Dogs will, wherever an Opportunity occurs, urinate against sacks of

 




food; therefore all sacks must be inspected.

Cats will defaecate in Open sacks or bins of cereals. It is,
therefore, important to ensure that sacks are kept tied and that bins
are fitted with lids. All foodstuffs which have become soiled by cats
must be destroyed. ' ‘ ‘

'Wild rodents will soil all sorts of foodstuffs and the obVious
signs are faecal matter and particles of foodstuff partly gnawed.

In a well organised animal house where foodstuffs are preperly
housed such cases of soiling should not occur, but such cases do
occur befOre delivery and wherever there is evidence of fOuling, it
must be reported immediately. ' '

gﬁood affected by Insects.

 

Insects which infest foodstuffs may be roughly divided into the
following groups:~

Acarina (mites)
LepidOpterﬂ (moths)
OrthOptera (cockroaches)
Coleeptera (beetles)

'tﬂiigﬁ

Foodstuff infested by mites has a rather sweet, sickly smell.
The obvious signs of infestation are what appears to be fine granuals
of the actual food, which on closer examination contain large numbers
of mites. These granuals or rough powder collect in crevices or corners
where foodstuff may have been left undisturbed for some time°

Moths.
The adult moth does not attack foodstuff but masses of food
webbed together is an obvious sign of damage by the caterpillar or the

mill moth.

Grain weevil

 

Cereals are affected by the grain weevil. The female bores a
small hole in the grain and lays her eggs (one hole per egg). ‘The grub
hatches out some time later and the adult beetle emerges after having
bitten its way out. Grain so affected my become hot and musty due to

the eating away by the beetle, it also becomes very light. a sure sign
when the grain weevil is present, holes are found in the actual grains.

Cockroaches and_§eetles.
The biscuit beetle is approximately l/lO" long and readily

attacks a variety of foodstuffs. The larvae are very active and can be
seen crawling through the food. . . '

 




There are several species of cockroach, all of which are
particularly troublesome in heated houses, where they collect behind
steam pipes, hot water pipes, sinks, draining boards or in fact any
spot which provides the hot atmOSphere which they prefer.

Cockroaches can carry infection and contaminate foodstuff. They
normally hide away in crevices during the day and emerge at night.

Deterioration of Green Food has been given under the lecture note
“The Importance of Green.Food”.

Hay;

As already stated hay may become musty and dusty after being
subjected to dampness. Rodents also affect hay and their presence may
be detected by holes and burrows through the bales, finely nibbled
particles, or faecal mattero Such hay should never be fed to animals.

gummagz.

Tina Scientist produces the right diet. The Technician must see
that the diet is maintained in the right conditions, ensuring that food
stores are clean and vermin proof. He must also familiarise himself
with the first signs of infestation and deterioration, otherwise, the
health of the colony will be considerably ﬁffeeted.

 




 

gWIlt-‘LL TECIEIIC'E‘QLLEC‘TURE moms:

iﬁﬁﬂﬁgﬁliﬂlisga
_§exing Commongbaboratpry.Animalsc
,IAEILQQQEE

The correct method of sexing animals cannot be taught by
lecturing. It is a purely practical function, and can only be
taught by demonstration; the technician can become perfect only by
practice.

It is important to demonstrate the correct method of handling
the animal before any attempt is made to sex ito

Explain that in the female, the urinary and genital apertures
are anterior to the anus on the ventical surface of the hind end of
the abdomen.

Explain that in the male, the common urinogenital aperture is
at the tip of a retractable penis behind which are two scrotal sacs.

Demonstrate the inguinal region of the male and the female,
including the position of the anus in relation to the genitals.

Demonstrate the urethral Opening, penis and scrotal sac in the
male, the urethral Opening and the vaginal Opening in the female.

These demonstrations should be given on adult docile animals,
preferably on one Species. This should be followed by demonstrations
On all available species, after which the student should be allowed
to practice.

 




minim immmaaimmmmmm
natureﬁgil .

Identificatian

iairadznieaso

When it is necessary to identify individual animals, some (simple)
method of marking has to be adOpted. All the methods should be simple,
. permanent, quickly applied, easily deciphered and harmless to the animals
The methods described below are but a few of the possibilities:~

Eguipmentmandehethods,

 

ins-sins

The following stains, which are soluble in alcohol at a temperature
of 26°C, are generally used:n

gains S min

Yellow Saturated Picric Acid or Chrysoidine
Red Fuchsin (acid, basic or carbol)
Violet Methyl Violet

Green Brilliant, ethyl or malachite

Blue Trypan blue

It is suggested that the stain be mixed in‘70%§alcohol, and where
possible made up in bulk, as the efficiency 0f the stain increases with
keeping.

Before applying stain to an animal, consideration should be given
~-to: chemical composition, degree of toxity effects on the coat and skin
of the animal, and compatibility with the experiment for which the
animal is being used° '

A small area deeply stained is preferable to a large area lightly
stained, and re-applioation at regular intervals is necessary.

Eat. Punc has.

 

Surgical instrument manufacturers supply ear marking pliers of
various designs for use on large animals. For certain small animals
a chicken toe~punch may be used and can be obtained frOm poultry
equipment suppliers. The ear marking pliers and the chicken toe-punch
are designed to out holes right through the ears or a series of notches
round the edges of the ears.

Before marking animals by this method, a well defined system of
codes ShOUld be drawn up. It is advisable to diSplay a code chart
in animal reoms or wherever animals are being handled. It is possible

 




to mark each individual animal in a colony, by using the instruments
described above and a well defined system of codes.

Ear Marking Qtugg.

 

These studs are designed on the bachelor button principle and are
made of brass or aluminium 2/8" in diameter, The studs are lettered,
numbered or codified to requirements and are supplied with a combined
stud forcepgwhich pierces a hole in the ear and closes the studo

'Tattooing

Surgical instrument manufacturers suppLy tattooing outfits in
several sizes and with a variety of interchangeable numerals and letterso

To mark animals with a tattooing forcep, use the size of numeral
recommended in these notes. The colouring medium should be black for
non~pigmented animals and green for animals with heavily pigmented skins°
The use of a triangular needle along with marking.ink is also recommended
and is considered less laborious than the forceps which necessitate the
continual changing of numerals.

‘Bing and.Leg Bands

 

For identification of birds and poultry two types of leg bands are
used (1) plastic rings supplied in several sizeszumivarious colours, (2)
light metal, adjustable leg bands numbered or codified to requirements.

For rabbits, codified or numbered metal rings of several sizes ( a
size to fit each breed of rabbit) are used.

jﬂins Beads and’Uias,Clipso

'Wing bands are adjustable and they are numbered or coded to‘
requirements. These bands are clipped round the wing above the radials
in a manner unlikely to impede the birdis movements.

The type in general use resembles a small gilt safety pin. These
bands and clips may be obtained from any poultry equipment supplier°

Collars, Chains and Neck Bandg.

Collars or chains with alloy diSCS(numbered or coded) may be used
on several species of laboratory animals. Extra long pipe cleaners may
be substituted for collars or chains.‘

 




TRUTWRP :L‘MILJ 1.

This is a paten t Wing tag? 153 of a lL ght alloy numbered or -wwwww«www
coded to requiremr ts. -t consists oi uﬂtb1n metal band doubled over
and poin‘m at one end. A pair of specie. }Dli€ s is provided for
clamping the tag in 3osition Whi 1c}1, vs the nam im3lies, is tamperproof.
This tag may'be'used-for ra111nu all speci 3s 01 birds and is also
a most convenient method or marking rabbits aid gt 1re1uigs

mi; ,

 

 

 

‘1 -.- . ~ ' , - ,.- w w 2 we ‘~.
SPEClES . . EQUIFHEHl’ ; MﬂlﬁO

 

 

Pjay old chiclzsl'Wingéband Clipped round the Wing, above the;
and ducklings rad ale, close to the body5 must
not impede movement.

Clipped through the skin, and
definiteljx closed (no dis comfort
must be 630 dsed to the oird. )

Legéband Bit tightL but comfortably round
the leg.

 

Leg~ring 3‘ '; tightly a.“ comfortably round
leg.

 

Pigeons leg~band. 3i ightly'l comfortably round

.1
165?.

leg~ring “‘ tight ly ‘ comfortably round
16” 5.:‘.\ o

 

 

Poultry . ._1—“ ' i.:" t Mtlf but comfortably round
I. 111:). 4

tightly 3 comfortably round
leg.

d leg~bands to be

 

 

 

Collar<& Disc E Collars or chains should fit
comfortably.

Chain & Disc 3 (It is advisable to have an
‘ I elastic or rubber insertion fitted
into the collar; if the collar
gets caught, it then stretches and

allows the elimal to get free.) i

J

 

 

 

 

 




ANIMALS (continued)

 

 

SPECIES

EQUIFIVEN T

 

 

Tattoo

 

eos with

onuort Joly round the neck

comfortably round the neck

 

 

Ferrets

a .
C: t EL in

Tattoo

~ . - ._..._. —m‘.l:~‘2-‘ﬁ.\“m‘<ﬁ~" ’».n "

i {3 o8: 5.113.115“ as 0-5JSCI‘j 053d. under

staining.

Tattoo the ears by forceps numer-
als 3/16"A " %“. Tattoo with

-triangular nee dle and marking ink.

 

Fine Nylon Braided
Suture Slre ad Small
coloured slass'bead
Sem.ng needle to

take thread.

‘3' g-‘xu-a—a- m. a:

oeads are stitched to
rina the dorsal sac
he nylon thread,
om» seed throu;n l fold in
and secured With a knot.
of colour combinations
used. '

e
t

 

Tattoo

Ear punch

Collar

the ears'bv forceps With
1 J
if

defined code system

oi notches or

T" _,

rlt comfortably round the neck.

 

 

 

Stain

Tattoo

Pipe cleanerci
Disc

Natural coat colour

 

:Fit round ne
‘that it ’s p siole to place two
“Lt/[l

 

 

uwnuatuM-nyuvu—em~m.‘u.‘w.
(1 u a «a. -

‘-. - r: “ ‘3 '1 1" ‘1' f. rah ﬂ -1 " " . ‘5"
staining as leccribeo andei

staining.

rTattoo the ears 2; 7,9 zea'With
Qnumerals “V

in such a manner

fins ers onl betWeen the pipe
cleaner and the animalhaneck.

Describe on cage label natural
coat colour always stating he
dominant colour first. Draw or
stamp sketch oi animal on cage

2 label, then use abbreviations for
icoat colour.
{priate abbreviations on the sketch
:to 801 rrespond

;mar:ings.

llace the appro~

to the natural

 

 

 

 

 




AEIHAIS (continued)

 

 

.SPECIES

 

Guinea pigs
continued

The very sharp point is.pushed
through the ear close to the ani~
malkshea‘. Pressure is then app~
lied by the pliers provided, thus
locking the tag in position.

 

 

Hamsters

Tattoo the ears by forceps with
. 7 :2 .
numerals 4/16" X'ﬁ . Tattoo by
using s triangular needle and

marking ink.

 

Chicken toe punch

Coloured stains for temporary
marking.

Tattoo the cars by forceps with
r 1. .
numerals %/16" x z”, or speCial

mouse ear tattooing forceps.

Use ~ well defined code system and
cut g series of notches or holes
in the .

 

Monkeys

Tattoo

Tattoo the chest, upper lip or
forehead by using a triangular
needle and marking ink.

Light chains with light alloy
discs securely fixed round the
liecﬂz.

 

 

Tattoo

Ear Punch

w - as .
uaf m uds

Tattoo 'h; an by fOrceps with
in

n v
/l6 A 4

numera

Cut a series of notches or holes

in the ear‘.

Pierce e iole in the ear by means
of the special forceps supplied,
place the stud in position and
clamp again with the forceps
supplied. '

 

 

 

Stain

Tattoo

Chicken toe

 

Coloured stains for temporary
marking.

Tattoo the ears by forceps with

7 7
numerals %/16” X Z"-

Use a well defined code system and
cut a series of notches or holes
in the ears.

 

 




ANIV‘IR

mm 1 ' "an;

 

SPECIES

MET 1'10ny

 

Rabbits

"I '1
Ear btudg

Stain

Tattoo the
*y 1 1
numerals 2/8‘ x 1”

Choose the
the breed.
the aztel
low 111:" at irequer

rabbits (S3ﬂ method
under pigs)

Coloured
coated enimdle.

(As degsoribed

~are by forceps with

inc to euit

wilg aoovet
1e” (Ins oeot
71

683'

itervals)

Aluminium etude shou1d 08 use dfor
deeo ibed

stains on white or livht

 

 

 

Ear Studs

. - . ._ 1
numerals 7/16“ X a”.
U0? e a well deiined
and out a series of
holes in the ears.

 

Tattoo the ears by forceps with

ystem of codes
notches or

(as described for pigs)

 

Grateful eokmowledgment is rode to the mduv ﬂﬂlf tec :hnioi
the information from whiotx thie note wee compiled.

supplying

{11153 1 CI“

 

 




AND” L TL 0; 9L 101111 LL LUL;;LQRLL_§

 

~“IZJEMIN ARR

TerUIG EEO. XII

”tall. 1.: “a. .rrrxh a; ans—821.1

Reco n1U1on of seed breeding unlmﬂlo

x.LK.J.-,:-z¢tn_-_:_

 

Introduction

’ One of the m st important factors in animal breedirg is the
technician‘s abil1ty to select superior animals as parents for the
next generation” *

Laboratory requirements and established characteristics of a
~given stra.in, ma y force the ch01ce to be made from animals which would
not norma1ly be chosen as foundation stock. This does Lot mean, however,
that hes 11th and vig our are not important; it simply means that the choice
must be made from animals of a given strain with charaCteristics which
the laboratory Wishes to prepagateg

.The funda‘ mental principles of good breeding animals remains constant
irreSpective of the d2ifferences between species and strain. The following
notes therefore, describe the exiernal visible signs oi good breeding
stock:

 

1) Inspection

The animals should be inepected for any signs of abnormality i.e.
limbs, paws, ta il, mouth, teeth and especially the genitals.

_2) S gn s ct health Wand Vigour

 

healthy animal will have a sleek, smooth coat, bright eyes, nose
‘free of mucus, clean anus and tail, be Lyell nourished (but not fat),
alert, and brisk in its movemeneo

3) Temperament

A good breeding animal should be easily handled, not nervous or
jumpy and certainly not vicious,

4) age of.inimal

The age at which an animal reaches sexual maturity will vary
considerably with the specieso It also differs with the various strains,
and, therefore the age of sexual maturity given for a particular species
may vary considerably with the different strains of that species.

The following t ble is a 0wide to the age at which common
laboratory animals may be matedgm

 




2a
V

', v,——_..mtr

Species Age of Sexual Maturity tAverage‘ﬁeight at Sexual Maturity
vﬁ ; A
. 0 Q g d) .

 

 

 

.. .1. V.-

Cat 74.2 months 6m12 months: 3m53157~Kgo 2%”; Kg:
Dog lOMlS n s? f

f _lccording to breed
Ferret 9m12 ,
Guinea pig _ 3 g 500 go 450 g.
Hamster ' 2 I

Mouse 2~2g~ " g 25 g. 20w25 go
Rabbit ._ 6»? “ 2 According to breed
Rat (Cotton) ‘ 1—;— ? , '2 145.150 g. 150 go
Rat (Norvegious) 3”}; a * 280.510 go 270—500 go

cu-Ll p g . 1,- -<

 

 

5) Practical Demonstration

Demonstrate with as many species as possible, using good and bad
animals, also animals of mating age and animals that are too youngo

As each species is demonstrated, give the following average litter
size and average birth weighto '

 

~-- _.

Species Average Litter Size .Approximate‘feight at Birth

 

 

mm as- "r w "m —M—-> “a ‘ J..‘.&.‘n_' . ian'm-"g‘
n.

Cat 3-»6 ‘ 100—110 g.

Dog 3—6 ,Varies according to breed
Ferret 6~lO Young ferrets not normally
Guinea pig- 3~5 50~80 g. (handled
Hamster ’ 7»? ."' ‘ 1.4 go

Mouse 6~lO ' 'lga g. .
Rabbit 5M10 Varies according to breed
Rat ECotton) - 4m8 4,0 g,
Rat Norvegious) 6~lO 495 g,

--- *V-ﬁ- <.~—- ~- —- - .- ‘_._' _, ’U Y‘, ’4‘“ .. J» ,1 ..‘.. 3‘__.u:.-A ‘mertsm

 

 

 




r ~r1.

,~ ':“‘- ‘ T "‘ r1111 NT... F1 '- To“ “‘ “an.“ NT“; ‘r‘: 1:1 if“ - '1 » ’2-
.ILlQ-II‘JILAJJ .LIZJUIHV IU Lad bib.) .1. u 11.1.1 1M U Linn)
mmrw‘aw- ’

ELEVENmnRY
c.2314 “x”

l ,
. ~
"2:43-41! . .1 ..

Lecture 11.0.... 11 311

.A.
"‘ “Lat-:85 2123

s igns of Ill saith in L 151322.23dean Alliﬁléﬂzﬁ

assertion

It cannot be over emphasized that the early recognition of the
symptoms of ill health can be instrumental in preventing a serious
outbreak of diseessin a colonyo

Technicians must become keen students of animal behaviour
because only by knowing how a normal animal behaves is it possible to
recognise abnormal behaviour, which in itself may be an indication
of the eerxy signs of ill health.

gently 5131191“ .1511. sew;

Suddenly becoming aggresive towards its cage mates
Objects to handling

Huddles in a corner

Steps eating and drinking

Cost or fur in poor condition

Nasal discharge

Eyes dull or showing signs of discharge

Fails to clean itselfo

gigginged Signs of: Allﬂﬁeelth

Cat

Sneezing

Loss of weight

Exaggerated ‘cat smell‘
Constipation or diarrhoea
Animal lies on abdomen

Hind legs extended backwards
Heed bent down

Eyes sunken

High temperatureo

Signs of fever

Nasal bloodstained discharge
Loss of weight

Constipation or diarrhoea
Urine unusual colour
Vomiting

Intense thirst

Chattering of teeth’
Convulsions

'Walking in circles

 




Animal appears sleepy

Eyes and nos e; watery discharge

Eyelids stuck together

Loss of appetite

Loss of weight

Skin of nbﬂomenr and feet oonges ted (red and swollen)
Sneezing

1D
* :olle 11 <j<j>i1rts
Bleeoing gums
hrohe b :1ok
‘lost ng
Diarrhoea

Starin‘ ' cont

Egmster

Ruffled heir

Loss of appetite
Caterrh

Diarrhoea

Seeby ears ani nose
Wet tail

Signal:
Loss of appetite
Loss of weight
Inactivity
Discharoe 1rom eyes and nose
Diarrhoea
110u11iu19
Sneezing
Scabby Skin

Mouse

1an1al looks ill

15 ir roughened

Di errhoee

Loss of appetite

Loss of weight
Conjunctivitis
Accelerateﬁ respiration
’ﬂheezing or chattering
Soebby skin

ibresions around the ears
.SVJelling s on tail
Enlargement 01 feet

 




Loss of appetite

Loss of weight
Diarrhoea

intended abdomen
'Weakness in hind legs
Nasal discharge

Head shaking

Coughing

Sneezing

Rubbing nose on paws
Loss of area of fur
Ear swollen at base
Inner ear covered with scabs.

Loss of appetite

Loss of weight

Pallor of the ears
Sneezing

Accelerated respiration
Scabs about the nose
Animal running in a circle
Staggering

Animal falling

Lesions at root of tail
Soabby ears

Tilting of the head

Loss of appetite

Loss of weight

Diarrhoea

Bird remaining for long periods with head under Wing
Difficulty in breathing

Hard solid crOp

Excessive thirst

Soabby legs.

The signs of ill health will mean very little to the technician
unless some simple explanation of the disease is given along With the
symptoms.

The lecture is, however, intended to develop the powers of
observation and to encourage the technician to report immediately any
of the signs. Such reports may be instrumental in preventing a serious
outbreak of disease in a colony.

No report however trivial should be ignored, otherwise the
technician will in turn fail to report his observations.

 




liEQLECIHlQEﬁEJLEEEQ
Regimes. InexII:
lamaé‘asciiee
Euthanasia is the term used for putting to death painlessly.

The.correct method of killing any animal is to ensure that it is
unconscious and that death is certain and instantaneous.

The method used will vary considerably with the species to be
killed and will also depend on laboratory requirements. _Histologists
and.HaematolOgists who are going to use any part of the dead animal
should be consulted on the method of killing°

Unqualified personnel should not be allowed to kill animals and
should, under no circumstances, administer barbiturates.

53:13.99 is 5 “sand. :36 1311061

-Cat

#3 no .1

Befriend the animal: hold it in the manner prescribed for handling.

An injection of veterinary nembutal, eunarcon or pernocton is an
excellent method of producing deep sleep and when the animal is
unconscious a further lethal dose should be given intraperitoneally.

Nembutal is a scheduled poison and must only be administered
under the supervisiOn of a qualified person.

dbl-1.0.1:. 92}
The usual method of killing is by dislocation of the necko

The bird is held by the legs with one hand and pressed closely
against the hips of the Operator, whilst the head is held by the otner
hand. Grasp the bird immediately behind the skull with the first two
fingers, place the thumb under the lower beak. The neck is fully
extended by means of moving the hand d wn; then, by means of a strong
downward thrust, simultaneously rotating the birds neck backwards over
the neck, the head.is dislocated at the junction of the cervical region
and the occipital part of the skull. Humane poultry killers are
available and should be used Wherever large numbers of birds are to be
killedo

Dog;

The method employed will vary considerably with the size and

 




temperament the dogo A large docile dog may be destroyed by
means of a captive bolt pistol, in the following recommended manner:—

The Operation should be performed-with the animal in a sitting or
standing position, the Operator standing on the right side, and a little
in front, of the animal. Hold.the skin of-the neck with one hand and
the pistol with the other, and apply the pistol firmly midway between
the eyes and the root of the~ears, a little to one side to miss the
bony ridge. Aim dovn the long axis of the neck, but slightly across the
dog. The hand holding the dog should be at least A inches away from the
muzzle of the_pistol. .L temperamen al dog may be given a narcotic dose

of a barbiturate as a preliminary.

Another recommended method is to give a full SHROSthOtiC dose Of
pentobarbitone sodium intraperitoneally; when the animal is unconscious
follow up with an intravenous injection of a toxic agent, such as
chlorofOrm. The destruction of_a dog already under anaesthesia can be
done by administering an overdose of the anansthetic.

Guinea‘pig

 

The quickest and most humane way to kill a guinea pig is by
stunning with a sharp ferward blow behind the head with a blunt instrument
followed by cutting the threat. This method cannot be used if the animal
is required for post mortem examination. 7

Other practical methods are the use of either chloroform or ceal gas
in a properly ventilated and designed closed chamber,

Coal gas should be introduced slowly, so that the animal becomes
drowsy and dies without struggling. Rapidly introduced coal gas causes
partial asphyxiation, resultizg in the animal struggling violently.

Nitrogen may be used.in a preperly designed chamber, and it is safer
to use than the other two. A nitrogen chamber must be fitted with a “
release valve which has to Open immed‘ately after the gas supply has been
turned on°

L 0 213:9.

Use_nembutal, as recommended for cats, or chloroform, nitrogen or
,coal gas, as recommended for guinea pigs. ‘

Hamstqg

. The most humane method fer euthanasia is a sharp quick blow on-the

back of the head with a blunt instrument, followed by cutting the throat.
Chloroform, nitrogen or coal gas mar be used as recommended for guinea
pigs. Barbiturates are quickly and easily administeredo ‘

Mouse

Dislocating the neck is a simple and humane method of killing.
Hold the animal_by the base of the tail, place_it on a surface it can

 




 

5

3.

grip, where it can stretch itself out so that a pencil or similar
object can be placed firmly across its neck. a sharp pull upwards
and forwards on the rail will dislocate the neck and kill at once.
Killing by bleeding from the axilla under anaesthesia may be used

if the blood is required for serological purposes° Chloroform, ether,
nitrogen or coal gas may be used, as recommended for guinea pigs.

EEEESZZ

An overdose of an anaesthetic should be used, either by the
injection of a barbiturate or by inhalation of chloroformc ’

The most humane method is to use a cage with a false movable
back, bring the false back forward until the animal is pressed against

»the front bars of the cage, then give the animal an injection intra—

peritoneally through the bars.
same

A chamber (described as for guinea pigs) into which chloroform
or nitrOgen is introduced, is an acceptable method. The animal may
bakilled by a sharp blow on the back of the neck with a blunt instrument.
Embolism or the injection of a barbiturate into an ear vein also ensure
a humane death. ‘

Rat

'The accepted method is a chamber (as described for guinea pig)
into which coal gas, chloroform or nitrogen is introduced.

Decapitation is a humane method, if carried out by a qualified
person, a cleaver has been recommended for this Operation but a better
instrument is a pair of sharp shears, grooved out like pruning shears.

a sharp action completely severe the head from the body. All evidence
of a previous decapitation should be cleared away before the next animal
is brought to the slaughter bench.

Other redeats

To be destroyed by the method described for guinea pigs, mice
and rats.
Frogs andLToads for Qi§2233£§3i_

These animals may be killed by any of the following methods:—

1. Make a lﬁgurethane solution by adding 10 grams urethane to 1 litre
warm water. Put the animal into a beaker and pour in the solution,
until only the head of the animal is just above the surface, cover the
beaker because the solution is volatile, and leave for 5 minutes.

9 Place the animal,in a desiccator over cotton wool well soaked

‘a‘.

 




in either chloroform or ether.

3‘. Decapitation of. the animal is 'quite'humane if done by a sharp
. instrument. An extremely sharp pair of scissors is recommended.

4. To pith a frog, wrap it in'a towel, leaving only the head

exposed. Hold the animal in one hand and with the other take a sharp

pair of scissors and place the lower blade across the mouth, over the
tongue, as far back is possible. Jitho a. rapid stroke, cut the head off
behind the eyes, leaving the lower jaw intact; this remOves the fore braino
The cranial cavity is then easily visible. Destroy the posterior brain.
The spinal cord can subsequently be destroyed by pushing a seeker down
through the middle of the spinal column.

Another method, although more difficult, is to wrap the animal
as above, hold it in one hand, place two fingers of this hand over the
animal’s nose {ind bend the neck forward. 'With the other hand, take a
semi-sharp seeker, feel for the gap at the back of the skull, where it
joins the vertebral column. Make a quick, sharp, downward jab at this
point in the mid~line thrOugh the Skin and immediately turn the needle
‘to destroy the brain. I: the cord is to be destroyed, remove the
animal from the towel and pass the seeker through the same hole beek-
wards down through the spinal celumn.

Xenopus laevis

 

To pith the South ;frica clawed toad, whose head cannot be bent
forward, thrust a blunt straight seeker into the cranium through one
of the noStrils.

Destroy the brain and drive the seeker through the foramen
magnum down to the urostyle. '

 




anagram :1. i LdglJljaf—JEEQTEE

ELFMBNTFY

 

@1322. Nana

CleaninD anQ wtorlllz1n” of 0&593

—_.I..4‘

 

Kgntroductign

 

Healthy animals are clean animals, unfortunately, animals in
captivity cannot keep themselves clean, therefore, dirty animals
very quickly become unhealthy animals.

It is the technicitr ns’ duty to keep the animals clean because
by keeping them clean the technician helps to keep them healthy.

Cage leanin

A somewhat menial task, but nevertheless a task which is
essential and must be reg rded as one of the fundamentals of good
animal husbandry.

Modern equipment has simplified, considerably, the task of cage
cleaning. 'With up to date equipment and mechanical scrapers the
technician no longer spends long hours scraping out caves.

Batteries may be designed for automatic or semi-c wutom tic
cleaning, but cages have to be manually cleanedo

Routine cleaning will vary considerably and each laboratory has
adepted a routine to suit their own conditions and it may take the form
of any of the following:—

a) bregggggX

Daily, twice Weekly or weekly cleaning. The species caged and
the number 01 animals in one cage does have a bearing on the frequency
of cleaning.

10) new
Cages and dirt trays or dirt trays only cleaned in the animal rooms.

Cages and dirty trays t ken to a cage cleaning room where they
handled by a person engaged on cage ole aning.

The latter method is preferable, been ause this ensures no contam-
inated dust falling from one cage On to another 0 age.

With this method clean, sterilized cages complete with bedding
are taken into the animal room. The animals are then transferred from
the dirty cage into the clean one The dirty cages should be either
placed on a dirty cage trolley or on the floor, until they can be removed.

 




32erilizstise

In this context the word ”sterilization” means the power to
destroy micro-organisms. Those most likely to be found on the animal
cages are bacteria, a class of microsc0pic organisms (often parasitic)
and the cause of many diseaseso

'Various methods are employed for the destruction of bacteria,
but the usual method is either by some form of heat or by chemicalso

EEEUE

iutoclaving which is steam under pressure is the accepted method.
The requisite time necessary to kill all bacteria and their spores is 30
minutes at a pressure of 15 lbs. per sq. inch.
Esssﬁéises

This is generally a large tank or cabinet, in which cages, trays and
other utensils are stacked, the door or lid closed down and the main
steam Opened. In this form of sterilization the temperature inside the
tank or cabinet is important, therefore a thermometer should be fixed to
give a reading of the temperature inside the tank or cabinet. dll
bacterial Spores are not necessarily killed by this method or
sterilization. Temperature inside the tank 80 — 100-0 C. Time required
for sterilization 1 hour.

Boiling_Tan§

A method most generally accepted and quite useful for cages and
small equipment: Fill the tank with water, bring to the boil and
allow to boil for 30 minutes.

Direct E§:t

a
$413.32 4. ’ ' 18.1

This-may be applied in the form of a naked flame from a kerosene
pressure lamp. Useful in cases where other methods are not practicable.

Chemlssle

Various chemicals are recommended, as also are the bacteriacidal
detergentso

Two chemicals should not be mixed, because a re—action may be
set up.

The prescribed solution should be made up in hot water, (generally
it is 3 - 57). The cages or equipment should then be placed in the
solution in the tank and allowed to remain for up to 24 hours.

All equipment must be well washed in clean.warm water or hosed
with warm water under pressure.

 




.Sypmr 7

.,~ ,3.

Clean sterile cages

”or ,s n” . ..-- .-. ‘ ”.1. _' " f ..:..~ . ., '
legular Lihiﬂln& aﬂd bbbflllélu? must

feature in good animal husbandry.

oils; y,af*,; r “a , 34¢ infected auteclaving

with :3»: .. _ ‘ _: 1‘ 31’le

' - ,. u A ‘ r " e. ‘. - , ;,-_, -... . —.
must be -e a; J befcyu ~ _ e. .;_- y“ . rumcweﬁ.

be cleaned before

 




 

ANIMALFEEQHNICIAN LECTURE NOTES

higéliliﬁaﬂgiiﬂt
Pgsgmlltfslens
cisteehatias

Personal hygiene is a subject normally taught to Medical students
and nurses. In this context the principles are identical although the
application is slightly different, because it deals with the effects of
personal hygiene on animal healtho

.nnimals may be roughly divided into two groups.

1) Specific pathogen free (that is an animal which is free from certain
knewn:infeotiens).

2) Specific pathogen carriers (that is an animal which may appear
perfectly healthy but carries certain known infections Which it can pass
on to other animals). ' -

Personal hygiene is therefore important and has to be maintained
at a very high standard, otherwise the technician may pass infection
from one animal to anothero

hwsseiyfecihen
iH m. 313

Dirty hands, failure to wash hands on the following occasions;
entering the animal room, after handling an animal and before handling food

Street clothing is a possible source of infection. Laboratory coats
and overalls which:ire used in more than one animal room, are a definite
source of infection.

Footwear

(.33; J——“-— ”

Dirty footwear which has been used for street wear or which is used
in more than one room is another route through which infection may be
introduced.

”Perishalnhi synergies

On regggggng forqdutyz remove all outdoor wearing apparel, including

footwear and place in lockers provided.

Animal technicians should avail themselves of a shower bath before
and after leaving the animal quarterso

 




lﬁhen showering facilities are not available, technicians should
thoroughly scrub their hands (especially the nails) with soap and hot
Vfﬂter «9

Dress in clean laboratory clothing and shoes. Headgear should
be worn in the animal roomso

:ggnhing in the animal roons: before entering the animal rooms all
technicians should walk threush a‘shallow bath of disinfectant. This
. L) . r

applies each and every tine an entry 18 made.

'W sh hands before touching equipment or animals and wash them
9 fresh animal or group of animals is handledo

rvnds before handling food°

ﬁhen a technician is required to work in more than one animal room
a complete change of wearing apparel, including headgear and footwsar must
be provided for each room. It is advisable for such apparel to be.
distinctly marked or of contrasting colours. ‘

During meal breaks the technician should leave via a shower bath and
dress in outdoor apparel. '“here'sueh facilities are not available animal
room apparel should be discarded and the technician washes thoroughly as
possible before dressing in outdoor apparel.

Other precautions to be taken_where applicable: i.e. wear face masks
and protective gloves.

.A high standard of personal hygiene in the animal house has a dual
purpose (1) to protect the animal from infection carried in from the
street by the technicians, and to protect it from infection passed from
another animal by the technicians (2) to protect the technician from
infections transmittable from anirals to man.

To accomplish this, no standard of personal hygiene can be set
too high.

 




gmnygm TECHNIC 1m LECTURE NOTES

ELEEMA‘;
hechlrslmalﬁlll
fameaaljisc .i lies

latraaaaiiea
Honesty and integrity is the keynote of personal discipline;
there is no discipline Where there is no honesty and integrityo

Personal discipline cannot be taught; rigid discipline such as
military discipline can be taught, but in research work it is a free
discipline which imposes no penalties, but carries greatr95ponsibilities.

These responsibilities must be regarded as personal responsibilities,
which can neither be shared nor shelved.

The technician must be prepared to accept these responsibilities
which are entirely dependant on personal honesty and truthfulness.

disc 1.213413% in thahaiaalhouse

Abide by the rules, some of which may appear trivial to the
uninitiated; but these rules have been drawn up with considerable fore-
thought. They are designed to safeguard the health and well—being of
both the technicians and the animals

There are tasks in every animal house Which are irksome and tiresome
but such tasks demand an even greater degree of personal discipline than
the more attractive ones. The person who shirks the unpleasant tasks
cannot be said to possess that degree of personal integrity which is
essential in any society whose existence depends on a free personal
discipline.

D's ipline affecting the.Animal
---~ " * '*‘=*-’*1’='& W.W

- mn-r-

 

n captive.animal is antirtly dependant on its he per; it cannot,
fend for itself. The technician m st therefore discipline himself
for the important task of ensuring that the needs of the animal are
given priority over his own personal requirements. The technician must
be prepared to make, on o::asions, personal sacrifices, if such sacrifices
are for the benefit of the animals.

Discipline affecting the Employer.
Professional ethics are normally beyond reproach and in this

sphere scientists are no exception; it is right and just to repay these
high standards with equally high standards.

 




Scientific research and discovery is dependant not only on the
person WHO directs but also on.thc,ptrson th undertakes the less
essential function,.which nevertheless is imoortart and may be
instrumental in providing the solution to the problem.

Qilkxtihjigt of Rules. ' .»‘

Honesty in all things is_esscntial.

Mistakes must he freely-admitted.

No duty hOWLVCF distasteful must ever be shirked.
No animal must ever be neglected.

nnchr all questions truthfully.

ndmit failure freely. ‘

By strictly adhering to this code of personal discipline the
technician will be making a valuable contribution to the field of
scientific research. '

 




£...I.I.€_..I- .ataaa.c.1.rma;cr L... .1\. 1.0. .. T. IL... 8

 

FTEMEWERY
I69 tul“s.II.9..-._2CVII I,

Cons,ant.Room,Temperature

 

Introduction

 

There are many reasons why laboratory animals are kept in rooms
where the temperature is higher than the ou,side air temperature,
some of the more obvious being that:-

Some species are indigenous to tropical or sub~tropical climates.

Others normally burrow and build themsclves warm nests into which
they retreat during cold weather.

Animals in captivity cannot move out of cold places into warm ones.

Excercise is limitpd to the area of the cage.

Cage design does not normally provide heat or euelter.

Certain species may fail to breed during cold weather.

Room temperature, therefore, is important but what is more
important, is constant room temperature. A lOW'temperature may not
affect the animals but a fluctuating temperature can have quite a
serious effect on the health of the colony.

Room temperature has, tierefore, to be continuously checked and
recorded.

Temperature recording_apparatusa

 

There are many designs of temperature recording apparatus. A
thermograph is a popular and simple piece of equipment. It is a
temperature element fitted with a spring arm.and pin which records the
tempe‘ature on a chart fixed to a clockwork metal drum, all of which
is fitted into a perfor ted metal case; the charts are changed weekly
and when removed they must be checked and filed for reference.

Hydrograph

A thermo hydrograph is fitted with bi-metallic temperature
elements working on the wet and dry bulb principle. L water tank
is fitted for the muslin wick. Charts are fitted as in thermographs.

A simple but effective method of recording temperature is by the
use of a mercury maximum, minimum, thermometer, this piece of apparatus
records the highest and lowest temperature and is reset at each reading.
It is far from satisfactory because no indie t on is given when the
temperature suddenly drops or vice versa. It is useful where the
temperature is reasonably even; then twice daily readings will give a
rough guide to the actual temperature of the room.

 




Demonstrate the three typos.

Temperatures must be considered in relation to humidity and
numhcrs of air changes per hour. A hot stuffy room with a high
percentage of humidity is bad for both personnel and animals.

The following chart is a guide to tho reg irsd tempuraturc,
humidity and the number of air changcs par hour.

 

 

Species Room : Humiﬁity I air changes
Temperaturc I Per Cent For Hourc‘
I I

vpmvn-amm“ “mgr-.nt‘. -\r-'“‘.O‘ .- - m-‘mz- u:-" ."r.# w- --.-r ..— n.v o 1.“..— -—-—- nm

40%

 

10
Dog I , . goal 1 10

Ferret , 1+0? I 10

 

Guinea pig AD} ; lO

I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I

Hamster ‘ hOﬂv ' 10
Monkey 40%, i 10
‘Mouse I , 10

Rabbit 9; lO

 

LLat ' . ' lO

 

 

 




CNﬂwl TWEW10L1'IEJW‘ IWHES

.. m .w...

 

EIENENTnﬂf

99.1.1: :9 1191,3111?

‘We1ghing Machil C's.

 

11111191110 1:19.11.
Weig hing machines are uSCd 1n ani aH 3:1; although not
r101rdC as fine halanccs arC nCVCr~thC—1Css'»1 -1“”: pieces of

Cquipmont and must be treated as such.

The tcchnician muvt handlc thCm with carC? ﬁﬂup them clean
and Chccﬁ thCm.ngularly for H1ccuracy.

TyQCs o1_g 1gh13y Lacn oCs

 

l) Sp:c1ng_Ba1a1J_s
The accuracy of this type of balance is entirely dependant
on the tCns 1(n 01 the arcing L spming. balamn C xtst, therefore,
be of good quality . Cheap, p001 quality ba1a nccs arC quite
useles. When using a sp3ino balanc. i:hC animal mu 0st “C l WCer gently
into thL pan or scoop.

2) Countergpoise :ajancts

 

These halanCCs are of W rious des igns. ThOS: in common use
in animal housCs ’36 fitted with dials “Mich C cal brath in
grams, sob—dividCd to as lOW'aS 0.2gm. Thess CalanCCs are designed
to weigh up to a fiVCn amount and undCr no circumstanCCs must this
weight be CXCCCdCd.

Similar balenc:s, electrically controllCd, showing a plus or
misz1us WCight are als o in CC 1mmon us<.

The vane 01 all- countC1no1s; bal1ncvs is emerged in oil,
which has a s1071ng cwt- Cf1ect on thC pointor. This effect is
known as damping and 1t providcs a slow, steady movcant of thC
balance arms.

AccuratC weighing is of utmost imaortaDCC and thC technician
must thcrcforC look after the animal or 100d oalance to the best of
his ability.

1.1131111919191199.

HandlC tlic Cci ght '1t1 ca«e.

Do not attcmgt to ournish Crass weights.
Hand1C the balanCC with care.

Esplace thC Ctights in thC box providCd.

 




Do not move unless neCe sary.

“When setting up the balance in new position, check
mercury level and use two weights of equal size to
Check accuracy.

When weighing animals the animal pan should be cleaned after
each animal Or group of animals.

When Weighing food, the pan should be washed each time the
food stuff is changed.

Use a small, soft hair brush to remove all food particles
or animal hair.

A ter use remove pans ans wash in warm.water, thoroughly
dry and replace. Cover up when not in use.

§pmmarx

Always use the balance and weights with care.
Clean after use and cover up.
Always carry by the base.

 




gsmrm warmers .

 

Animal Nutrition, by Cyril Tyler.
Animal preriments for Medical Research, Compiled by K Ando and
Y. Tajima.
Basie Anatomy and Physiology, by H.G.Q°Lowett.
Basic Zoology, by'iH.G.Q.Rowett.
Journal of the Animal Technicians Association, Hon. Sec. 4.3.MUndy,
5, Ouse Bridge Drive, Carlton, Notts.
Les Animaux de Laboratoire, by J. Dumas.
Service de Documentation, TOLL Bulletins.
The Care and Breeding of Laboratory nnimals, Editor. E.J.Ferris.
The Domestic Rabbit, by 5.C.Sandford.
The Rat as a Small Mammal, by H.G.Q.Rowett.
The Eat in Laboratory Investigation, Editors. Griffiths and Farris
UFAW'Handbook, Editors. W. Lane-Fetter and.A. Worden.

 




No, XX

'_T"-;' f 2:. - 7\ f‘l" ._ .5... -- ,. I -V... . y "a“: ___ . n . , , ‘ _ '3'" ‘ _ _. _ R __ w ‘ r‘ ' _ \ __ '_ ‘

L? ‘ :5. NW x~,.Jcek~~ “TOE-"v '3.‘ '1'» ' ~ :-:; ’: ~ --‘, - ‘ ' 1' »-.' <7 w». f‘ (“\s .' (1- -'Y‘ 0‘1 J F" 5 TC‘
.. ...' ..... ..\¢L.. A, 7 ..‘ ‘LL .-. . .1._.- §., ._.-:_ w , . R \U _.- , ‘ . . '4‘ - __. .1 \ ' ' ....' h ‘...4.':..\.).L‘1 #4-...) ‘1 “95-. .L\.JJ..L..L _;_ ‘ , ...-.1..‘.‘~1.J>.)

" - "‘ "- ‘1"4-‘~‘-o-n- Lnav- - .- A- m .- ,_,~ , n r '9. «A n‘_ noun, H . n,.- , . . .4. ~ L.‘ A .m, ~A . v up. .- :.. mu“ —fL.\4':n-‘n 1- .._ u. ; 1, , 4 - . a m. a», -tn-rx"I-I-~“.\ an ax... .1 *-

FUIS 1‘. 9 RES PIEETION

.
- Cant.-." M-ur Ila-7".“ W... cu. C." - -.'. .31"

EJVIEiA ‘ iiiz;?';-i*ﬁklr- TIVrijng‘T.er7ﬂ.Nrd 1132.; ;&LCUFE3 Eﬁ£2.?ZIEWFﬂﬂs

.a .4. .. 1‘ f

i

150 3 24
95 15
Frog 3 - z % 80 , l2
Fawl é : g 12
Guinea pig; ‘ ; 80
Goat 2 ? i E 16
Harse f ' L g 11

Mouse

 

Monkey (Rhesus)

 

 




 

IETURMEDIATE

 

Lgcturés 1 — 4

 

 




.QQliTEEiL-ﬁﬂlﬂklx EHEEMNLECTUPT‘EQT“ :ﬂTEERiEDImP a.

NO .

NO .

NO.

NO .

The Cat (Felis catus)
The 1305: (Genus familiaris)
Sterilization and Disinfection

Techniques Recommended For Use iiifith RadioisotOpes.

 




QﬂﬁéiﬁDEQEJ-WIC 1’- E‘T....L.E_CJZUE NOTE..-

 

mmammnnm

 

Noa la Cat {Eelis catus)‘
deﬁne—men; sunk-tat m- x. n::.:a:.ar.-a

"JIJL‘. ~~:‘ -14“... '

llntrcduction

 

The cat along with the horse and the dog is accorded special
protection under the Cruelt 5y to Animals Act (1876) Great Britain

In giving the eat this protection the act does not inhibit or
retard scientific research, in fact, it protects the scientist from

well meaning but irrational persons.

Reg. siremea’cs 01: ﬁche, Act

 

Ligggce; _A legs 1 document personal to the holder. It is needed

to carry out expel iments under the Act. For certain procedures certificates
muSt also be obt ained

Certificates:

 

 

A9 Dispenses with the use of an anaesthetic in the case of
procedures not more severe than simple inoculation or superficial
venesecticno

B. Allows recovery from anaesthetic”

Ca Allows demonstrations to students, or to learned societies.
Demonstrations must be done under an anaesthetic and there must
be no recovery;

E0 or EOEo Granted with certificates A or B enables a cat or a dog
to be used w without anaesthetic if granted with certificate A.

Table NO, l is an abstract from 3Notes on the Law relating to
experiments in Great Britaino Luesearch'Defence Society).

Table No.1g

cauu' 17—38;“:

 

424‘.“- har tar a": *"‘"'

' t, a: ‘ﬂi—J' “1—01 Liggth “4:.21'“: “St-1;“ 1fx-Jm,
”POGGdUTO f Requirements

r... M—»..~.»- 7‘— <.-—-.--.- ‘ 7,1: :Jt 3'33 .1 2411-; 'a- x ‘tAm-‘Q‘ .3- 34_ ¢« 1-- , t'”' a. ,L.‘:.'1.l.3:2 4.._u. :.3.-..s:.s, x3 \-.;.2 a. '42—;1‘.» 12:72.3“: :1 .214-.t;..;_:;‘._.

Under anaesthetic without recovery icence

.,.-_..~., ”*A—- t_‘1 3 a". t..u.&_3.:’ ; 1""- 15‘2.&.221‘-1 ‘-= 3. ‘8 ‘1.‘.&"__:1

l t’..;& ‘L'.’

‘ .mwm:a— ' “1.3.3.13”: “

Under anaesthetic with recovery Licence + Certificates B<& EDE.

94-» ‘~ 9 '-- 1- g j .M -—-~<'-v----~‘I‘ 1.28.;1'. xzms.ruzwgs.a.3 1‘. .‘l. "8"M‘.3 1" N‘ 8 .4‘...
a;

No anaesthesia employed Licence + Certificates A.& B.

- w. '1; 3-2.- —a— r1333: -- ”’“3’fxxﬁ - ---‘-‘ C’ ‘1 "x "a 'uz;1.c;1- .u =1..sz mi: .r.'1..~.t '3: a 1: .- -

 

Lectures and demonstrations - I ; Licence + Certificate 0.
Under anaesthesia (without recovery) '

m»-

 




Breeds

—J— 3.....1.“ J

Short haired varieties; fancy or long haired breeds not normally
1).. edo ‘ ' ' N

Housing
Desi ign in principle as applied to houses for other species

lls9 ceilings and floors finished with an impervious washable

riac all corners to be rounded. Floors to be provided with adequate
a1“ ‘

n.s 9e ior washing'downo

Rooms to have (if possible) a southern exposure, be fitted with
large windows (eats like to lie in the sun). -

Heatinﬁ and ventilation

. 114.....I ) -4 To: (”‘3' 15333 am

Lir conditioning to maintain an even temperature oi’7OO — 720190
and a minimum of 6 changes of air per houro

.lte rnative system: thermostatically controlled heatinc and fans
(Vent.nxia) to maintain the recommended temperature and number of air
changes” - ~ ‘

Rece1vwnv rooms
Two or more small rooms as quarantine quarters.

h fresh batch of animals to be placed in a separate roomo

These rooms may be divided into pens, ach pen titted with shelves
on which expendible cardboard boxes a re eplaced(one box per cat).

Heavy porcelain food and drinking pets to be prey vided (one oi each
per ca

Trays containing semxdt to be placed on the flooro
EXperimentalﬂrooms
Racking to aecommode te large cagesa

Table or bench‘to provide {decucte working surfacea

ElectriC'point.

'Lngle pOise lamp to provide-light for close examn lation.

Sink with hot and cold water.

 




3.

Single cages are normally used for experimental animals. Such.cages
should not be less than 42” x 24" x 21" high (Scott, 1951), each cage
fitted with dirt tray, water pot and food pot.

Specially constructed cages may be necessary for certain experimental
techniques; these cages must, however, (in Great Britain), comply with

Home Office regulations.

Metabolism Cages

 

1) arranger}.

Backing is not normally required.

Table or bench to provide adequate working space.
Cupboard space for the storage of glass ware, etc.
Sink.wdth.hot and cold water.

iMetabolism cages should be of simple design and include the following
features:-, adequate size; floor grids designed to allow the faecal matter
to fall into the funnel provided; feeding and drinking pots attached
‘outSide the'cage, with openings in the cage large enough for the cat to
put its head through comfortably. .A cat dislikes putting its head through
an opening'Which restricts its withdrawal. ‘

A raised shelf is to be fitted as a resting board.
Worden and Waterhouse (1957) describ a cat metabolism cage.
2) Bewixs

Room ~ see Nutritional.

Cage must be simple in design, expendable, provide the minimum.
surface area, reduce to a minimum.evaporation loss, provide maximum
protection from contamination. ‘

(Breeding Roems.

 

Cats.breeding rooms must be treated as quarantine quarters, and no
unauthorized person should be admitted. Authorized staff must change
clothing and footwear before entering. Cages and equipment must be
sterilized. Only healthy animals, which have passed through quarantine
in the first instance, should be admitted.

'When the colony is established, no fresh animals must be admitted,
and no animal once removed must be returned.

 




ing a number of OUCGHS and one tom has proved success
designeda a ‘3'a -ready des 1ben) Each queen to be given hero
placed on a sielf well above ground level. A log for the animalsd
claw should be provided.

Indivreual zﬂUCo.

Such cages should not be see than 3’6“ X 2‘; E'ff’ Queens to be
housed in these cea get Tone to be allOWtzd frce r:. inge.
resins.

'Water available at all times.

There is little information available on the pra cti~el feeding of
cats. Nutritional studies have so far only covered the field of creating
deficiencies. This serious omiss'on ir cat huib m;ry will be overcome as
and when additional cat colonies “re established. Dickerson and Scott
(1956a) describe a diet which is calc ula ted to provide 130/150 Cal/kg.
Cat/day. Short and Lamotte (l959)m we a diet composed of equal amounts

Diet hlB (Bruce and 38‘150/ and a proprietary d/g food. Their
breeding queens and kittens receive,in addition, reconstituted full cream
milk and small amounts of a proprietary cat food.

éJ

the former is laborious and time coxisuming, the lat M,r is ea sy and simple,
yet both report excellent results.

These workers adopt astly different metho<s§ the fee din z routine of

C I
Vltéﬂ’Pﬁ,R€dulrﬁm€ntS.
— ' '01 Au- -l‘ﬂ*w:.‘—l "‘

 

lﬁﬁ3§gtﬂgf Deficiency‘ Estimat,d Re cu

 

 

 

Poor harsh coat; scaoby areas; _2,500 l.V/100g. dry diet

inflamed dischorrmnO conjunctiva; sufficient to prevent

inflamed gums; enlc rged parotid lesions. Three weekly

ducts. doses oi.“ 5,000 LV.
Curative.

 

_mr:u“wm~.~.—Ln -"- ‘ ‘ m *‘t--: we.” ~>I-.-‘--.- v“

 

u r Mﬂ-wra -- '“I

Ricketts described; may not be a 70 l.v/day protective.
clear cut fit. D deficiency.

...__- A .- m-r ‘ w...

 

 

 

 




lithe-air, ﬂog-Loewe: 3.0.9:,155 '

liiaain EEK?“.RQPﬁfiELiﬁﬂgj

E Listlessne'

es;
in moving; Steatitis (yellow fat

anorexia; difficulty

62.3.2.

‘B

ﬁstieated Reqairaeaaia

 

4 mg/day suggested.

disease) ~ subcutaneous fat becomes

progr ssively more firm to the
touch, brownish yellow in
appearance. Hesenteric fat deep
yellow to orange.

mam. Q". a: gun-nu.” umdr. —. -.a~-:.;- -:

 

 

Anorexia, loss of Weight:
convulsions.

Kittens not more than
0.4 mg/day.

.-.A c‘w—lﬁ'

 

 

 

anorexia, loss of hair around
eyes and ears, severe loss of
weight terminating in death.

. «,texv-a‘m.-m- v.0..- ,. .

Related to fat content
of diet 0.2 mg/lOOg.

dry diet at 5%lfat
level; amount increases
with fat level in diet

3 mg/lOOg. diet adequate
in high carbohydrate
diets.)

 

 

 

Not described

Be

 

 

Nicotinic
JELCid

r- ‘7‘." - wc-uw— wrap-a."

Syndrone likened to respiratory

 

Pantothenic Not described

Acid

 

*MW'ma-m—n anus-Jo. .‘1. 4- *3: A- us». b—T‘.“! us sun-u- m‘1‘~-r.‘w um . V

Choline Severe fatty infiltrations of

the liver.

'J-‘;.:.....—u-I"Ir“. w" rmw‘ crjr - Q «Lu-m -;.'I.:'.4-“-.,l~ an. nu .“n .r‘wun‘w ‘w'l'.’ wore-J Cw-st‘v v -c s x—

Kittens 0.2 mg/day.

r'mwe‘am a m»-r,r‘.»~.~ menu“...-

Kittens 2.6 mg/day.

virus infections; drooling saliva.

'1‘- unn- ”a .mm

Kittens 1 mg. calcium
"antothenate per day.

- “nun-cu. ".9“ .‘n‘- u -' - u.- «a..- . m"’v-M

_34 mg/day curative.

 

 

 

w __._. ___ .

Bioten Not described

M—n-h—w. In. ‘3' gang-r.) A

Kittens 0.1 mg/day

. -. .“d~g.—1,-:.*‘-z.“ ,._ m ‘r

 

 

. mun mug-5n «3L. .- .~-~¢~ m .a--:-.-~.:»I..—-x :‘n‘ um; .fJ‘-:A~m“—4 —

Folic Acid

 

- .- ‘u-‘ur-mﬂaauwuz‘m var

Inositol Sta“ing coat; loss of hair down

back- fatty liver.

- - -a\.~‘-‘w._-- '111.*at

 

VQ'J“ nut-Jun- ~ -«I-l..-:‘mx .m;

.— a wﬁr ‘vmr-:.—* <"-m‘”‘x.“ M‘J‘

Kittens 2 mg/day

"2""... 1‘: “such-.- r.-” 4: § run any-rm“.—

10 mg/day preventative
and curative.

 




Erasing...

The cat is polyoestrous.

Season: January to.Lugust. ‘

Sexual maturity: Queen 10 months, Tom 15 months.

Females usually enter their first oestrus during January or February.

Duratipn Of.9§§ﬁ?§§:

 

4 — 6 days in mated females. ,6 - 10 days in isolated females.
Interval in unmated females 14 — 21 days.

Gestation period (3 — 65 days (considerable variations ranging from
56—71 days). _

ghases of the oestrous cycle.

 

Aﬂﬁﬁﬁifus. Many small, strongly basophilic and a few larger,
epithelial cells with relatively large nuclei, occasional leucocytes.

gﬁrgmgestrus. F wer larger epithelial cells with marked nuclei.
gestrgs. Precornified and partly cornified cells with nuclei.
gmetgestrus. Leucocytes appear in variable numbers.

It has been generally established that the cat ovulates only after
copulation or some comparable stimulus (Greulich, l9}4).'

. I o _.,- .,' . .-..‘.-'. l~ ,‘ ..-"-.~n - .I. - 2.1 ' . O
Ovulation may 030 3101311; SCUM; m;.,;;; ~¢i Jiv_a \ i- M- ribs, 1/24)

Emiliaiioa and .imlal’ltatiaa-

 

The eggs enter the uterus sometime during the fifth day after
ovulation and attachment occurs between the 13th and 14th day (Amoroso 1952).

permeates...

All mature follicles do not rupture after copulation and luteinization
of unruptured follicles adjacent to normally developing corpora luted has
been observed (Dawson, 1941).

The corpora lutea reach maximum size lO~16 days after mating, with a
gradual regression after the 20th day. it approximately the 50th day a
fatty infiltration occurs marking the end of the period of functional activity.

 




Emmeeaagx.

Usually the result of an infertile mating.
_Duration is variable (23 ~ 30 days). '

ﬁittens.

, Born fully furred, reasonably mobile. Eyes remain closed for approx.
7~lO days, they must not be subjected to strong light when their eyes are
opening. They begin feeding themselves at approx. 4 weeks and may be

weaned at 8 weeks (earlier if the female rejects them, which she is liable
to do if she comes into oestrus).

Anaesthetics.

 

anaesthetics must be given by qualified persons only.

Complete anaesthetization is obligatory for all experimental
interferences likely to cause pain.

Curare is not an anaesthetic and special permission must be obtained
from the Home Office before it can be employed. ‘ - ~

Morphine produces a state of acute excitement in the cat, as a
narcotic it should therefore be avoided.

Non-volatile anaesthetics to be used for surgical anaesthesia of long
duration.

Wild cats should, if possible, be given an anaesthetic by the oral
route.

Friendly cats may be given an anaesthetic by hypodermic into the
peritoneal cavity, the dose to be calculated on body weight, age and sex.

The intraperitoneal route is not recommended for pregnant queens.

Veterinary nembutal is useful for acute experiments or fer euthanasia,
special.care to be exercised when used for recovery experiments. Nembutal
causes fall in blood pressure and tends to depress respiration.

Chloralose: a compound of chloral and glucose, suitable for acute
experiments, inducing surgical anaesthesia for periods of 3-4 hours. 'When
given intravenously induction with ether or ethyl chloride is desirable.

 




TABLE II

miébﬁtrﬂct from Uﬁiw H¢NDBOOK)

mun“.- —- rmn..u.u, -' .mz...~-u-qn-n-n.~v .L arm-a wn‘ cl. ﬁnd—a .m—r ‘- u-nu— -u - rim 0-.— .- u' u." tun—anvm—x v-‘ML ——u.-In.-m

‘Weight Nembutal at the rate Chloralose at the
w-iii-iuwm,im_,i.m.miHMM“9f"36 nrrﬂﬂa ‘“.wn,mwm_r wixajraigijiaaaékghim.

.. —--o‘l.nu.v‘:.m I ..<.xr._xa-—-‘l\~ ~ -~.

Solid Veterinary . Solid
Crammcs mg. nembutal ml. ' mg.

18' ‘ 25
36

2.2+

 

F0“ full details see .Handbook pp.
Some seful data”
ﬁveruge life span 13—17 years.

~~ , a. 4-3, a - N- .J
gganwlﬁ “in 1 Rate; i L mihuce.

Normal Teuperature J F.

Average Orgah_g=76 g ngQ g bQQX_weigh§

 

Adrenals 0.02

Brain . , i .0-77
Eyes " 0-32
Heart ‘ A 0.45
Kiineus ’ , 1.07
Liver ‘ 3.59
Lungs - I ~ ~ 1.04
‘Spleen I i ' I 0.29
Stomach and intestines 10.37

Thyroid 0.01

 




d Q
red cell count Millions cnm1 7.384 7.103
hemoglobin g/100 ml 10.75 10.32
white cell count ihoucﬁnd/cmm 17.420 16.610
corpuscular volume c microns 56.62 56.59

gpmpqggggyrggiCatsiMilkg

 

Water 81.63
Fat 3.53
Sugar h.91
Casein 3.12

ther Protein 5.96
Ash 0.58

Esierseesii

Amoroso, E.C. (1952). Chapter 15 on Placentution. In Marshalls Physiology
of Production, Vol. 1;; 3rd ed. London: Longmans, Green d:Co.

Bruce, li.n. ai‘ v - 1wS.(l956) T Anim. Tech. ﬁes. V11 54.

Dawson ,;.B. (1941). The development and morphology of the corpus luteum
of the cat. nmer. J. nnat. 79, 155—177.

Dickinson, 0.3. and Scott, P.P (1956a). Nutrition of the cat 1. A
practical stock diet supporting Growth and reproduction. Br1t. J.

Nutrit. 19) Sthle.

Greulich, WQW. (1934). nio1f1ciill induced ovulation in the cat (Delis
d01nestica). nnat. Rec. 5§J 217~22h.

Hill, J.P. and Tribe, m. (1924 ). The J evelopment of the cat.
Quart. J. micr. Sci., 62; 513—602.

Scott, P.P. (1952a). A not folding cogo for cots. J. Physiol. 116, 11—12P.

Short, D J., and Lemotte, J. (1959). The establishment of an experimental
cat colony. J. 11nim. iech. Ass. 1&3 8.

UEJW Handbook, 2nd Ed. Editors W. Lane—Fetter and A.N.'Word€n.

waterhouse, C.E., and Werden, 4.N. (1957). -5 metabolism.cag e for use With

cats. J. nnim. Tech. Ass. VIII, 66.

 




 

LN‘MLILT‘CLNICT ll ITC UT NOTTS

 

LL 1:).‘e’r‘7m W1:
- - LL ._ i.

NOc 2. _§hg¥pog

(3.3 :...I.:.)r' .r’n an. .1

(Danie familiaris)
IL... 3 r9 (471's
Theme: are very many different breeds of the domestic dog. They

differ in oodyweight, shape. coat and temperament. Mongrel and
crossbred {Jogw resembling no regis ier<d'breed art'widely used in

laboratories. There is little to he gained from discussing indiviLual
'breeds. It is more important to consider certain characteristics

of the species.

1. Size.‘

 

 

’N

ndult dogs ary in bodyweight from K to 120 pounds (2— SU Kgms. )
argzr r dogs need more food and larger cages tha small ones and ale
ther mf> e morL e;pensive to Keep. The very small and {he very
large dogs tend to he -delicate. The sme.ll to medium dog weighing
about 25 pounds (l2 Kgms. ) when adult is recommended unless a
larger dog is requ red for some sp eia purpose.

25.92§£a

Dogs with soft.*straight, medium length coats like those
Of.the labrador retriever and alsatian are recommended. Very
long or curly coats require much more grooming are difficult to
keep clean and give more Wrotection to ectoparas ites. Very short
costs like three of ne ho xer and de chshund, give the dog little
protection and appear to be more prone to alopecia and demod ectic
.mange.

 

3. Head shape.

Brachycephalic (short-nosed) dogs like the bull dog and
kekincse should Ea avoided unLess required for a special use.
They are bad inaCSLhetic risKs and in very hot weather may suffer
.ac ute r:spiratory embar assnent. '

B. Housing”

 

The most satisfactory housiL ng ior experimental dog gs consists
of an indoor kennel‘Whieh connects with anre: :ercise yard for each
dog. The accomm nodatiOL provided for laborat cry dogs mil 1 depend
largely on the facilities available, the number of dogs and the
purpose for_which they are kept. '

The indoor kennel is a compartLe :nt in a warm, well-ventilated

 




2.

room1 TFC T3oors3'walls and partitions should he waterproof and
the floors and wa33 s should incorporate some form of cavity
insulationt For the 25 lb. (32 ”3”“) do< a Tenrcl 6 ft, by 3 ft.
(2 metres by limetre) is very “Chou 3cr very lanvc dogs this
size must he increa ed 1 The part1 1.1103 wrll between kennels
should he 6 Ttg (2 wearer 31:1gh a11d sol1d 1cr the lower 3 ft.

(3 metre); The doors <5uu<£s 1or uninTected dogs may be of
wiro mCsh.so that the dogs can see each othCr and their attendant.
Each dog should he or:v1~ with an 01C11mroodcn box *eised a short
distance from thC ” "5:, T 7‘? bed: ba -1,3 a e Cruen'ivc and
difficult to keep ” s ;3 11: bed s.ho J63 be 6 to 32 inches (35 to

J-

50 omso3 deep and .I;” eno m1gh to allow the dog to 113 on ibS
side With its leg‘ 1 nded comfortably jraw3 33,? or clean
«,that51’tra33-1. 55hr , 1. 7 11;. 33ed<j-_i_r1f1,'f‘hc kenne3 and bee. Tor
WhClT) Hg bitch :1 . , f“. , 5‘.- 013,1) EOL/ L C3 0mg: aI‘I'EiDg;€3"ﬂe,nt 313.335: 33
F‘JlT-T'IJTLE'AS: 1 .. .'.. 7.1 ' "(:1le ‘1: she bed to re "1:11:11. 11 sloping
pier 093 out (T Li: side of the bed are suitable. hm
ksnael @gé'hsé gig Shﬁﬁﬁ 3% gig, as

3
of

:iso yaiﬂds mty'he indiviual T‘o1 each dog or communal.
They should he as large as oossible and well~3rained. Dogs
enjoy running in exercise yards.1in sma3f numbprs; care1sust be
taken to 1Wo35te those which start iiqhtsn JXtisi C yards and
paddocks should 3mg C Tenc1ng a1; lea 3 4 ?to (2m t: Cs) hi ;h and
:p‘ti6ﬂ”*bly lhTTﬂINXirvt Tin; top. Tmnalii3nrrds ngz'b: CKNL ed
with concrete or asptm lt whi-ch should slepe towards a dra'
Large paddocks may die gm :ed The grass must be 1<'
and the dioppin col3

as t

L oC

rip about
Laces

3 p
c*tC d regularly, The grass W1
worn hare 1333ue 15 ga ts and sometimCs in a narrow st
3 feet (3 Avqu) Wide: just inside the wire. Thesa pa
should bC conchth

A simple shelter T1om the sun and a el€jah permanent water
supply are nCcessary, 1 double entran CC- gate, as shown in
the accompanying plan, is dssiroble to pr o've nt Locaoes.
Uninfected dogs will b‘UL :it 1;(+ Trom >XC 1c:1~C on leads
given by their attendantso '12 is an “XC"l“nt way 1or the
dt‘phddnES to gain the oonfﬁdoncs and leai n thC 1nd1V1du 3 habits
of dogs kept for long term ouo5r1mro113

If neither a run nor individuaw s —"r'*w 'ttendants is
poss th, running chains may‘be 1s1do 1?“. a C St bee t a poor
substijo.1te 1Yn? 9coo5"*igisr‘1~m. out are ’ 37..'1C3 beiﬂxﬁ? than
permantntlyc a dog to it Vennel. “he eest arra1ge111t

a horizon ' :3 1—strsnd ste‘ 5%] cable ”trotcn d tightly .mb ut
thC ground. 3 3 fast (3 metres) lengt
; the reg C113 " ., one end and a ring on
' to run over a strip of
stop must'be put on the
each end to prevent the dog from'winding
9hfltsr and water must be given. The

«N'N

(1;. >1 am.

 




9, Handling

 

The dog will benefit more from individual handling than
most other species. Apart from laboratory identification,
technicians should know and give a name to each dog on long
term experimentation. The dogs will soon learn their own names
and will respond to their own attendants.

Dogs should normally be handled with a plain wide leather
collar and a leather lead. They Should be tethered, when this
is necessary, only with a chain.

Vicious dogs should not be used for experimentation. If,
however, a vicious dog has to be handled, it may be mussled with
a 2—4 inch (5 ~ 10 cms.) wide bandage as shown below:

£5 Marking:

Dogs may be permanently marked by means of tattooed numbers
on the hairless part of the inside of the ear flap. These
numbers may be difficult to read quickly, so they can be repeated
on metal discs attach d to the dogs' collars. Collar discs should
not be used alone because they are easily lost. If this occurs
to a tattooed dog, reference can be made to the permanent ear mark.

Particoloured dogs can be identified by means of drawings
of their colour markings. The colours of individual toes and
nails should be recorded. This method is tedious and cumbersome,
but useful with a small nunber of dogs.

E. Feeding.

 

Dogs shes more individual differences in dietary preferences
and requirements than other species. Preferences are usually
acquired and are therefore under the control of the technicians
except in the case of neVly—purehased dogs. The quantity of food
eaten by different dogs of the same'bodyweight may vary as much
as 50d~above or below the average.

Dogs are carnivorous, therefore a large proportion of their
food must be of animal origin. In practice a mixture of equal
parts of meat and a bulky carbohydrate food is a suitable diet.

Lean beef muscle is ideal for the meat part of the diet. If
it is of good quality and absolutely fresh it may be fed raw;
otherwise it should be boiled for at leastEO minutes, shortly
before feeding. It is desirable to vary the animal protein by
feeding fish once a week and offal (heart, kidney and liver mixed)
once weekly. If necessary part of the meat may be tinned or
dried meat products, but these preserved foods are best avoided
if possible.

The carbohydrate part of the diet may be wholemeal Wheat bread,

 




oatmeal or one of 4the prop

GI eeniooa. 'Wild dogs FRt thL intestinal contents of their
re}. In order to simulate a 19tural diet it is dcsirabl: to
%:‘.d 9ome VC’"taole matterapfr1sfrom the bulk mentioned above.
It is suggested That-7~l ourc99 (8—50 A? “ h minced green~
food is added to ea.ch do g's main meal "

The total weight of food needed W each dog daily will have

‘tO 13C inOLHlé lﬁy' (ti “L‘1 :29 iniii exry )ar Cl C; almt~ _gpéc;gp (XE aniinnnls.
The amouni: leL irm 7.4,9, but not O‘OMIr,JHUallv. with bodyweight;
it will ;nCicas lb} loner tcmoaritu and increased exercise
and it will be argue ii the last thiil of pregnancy. The
following total daily food requirements are abproxizate,'but will
provide a working guide:

9
l

'JOdT‘LJ . Ch]: 20 1138. (:1
60 199 (
(

3 J0 lb?

0 Kgml ' - " ‘ .5 Kgm)
3C) Kgm, ~ 1. 9 '*m - .8 ngm)
50 km ._' 2 .5 - 1.0 9.91)
The only true measure of correct maintenance feeding is the
condit 9101 cf the (.10 ogs

F. Breeding.

1') 11.1}
- .. é.-2f f ; ;;9: ”n; iirr

of age. The bitch will accent 7?: dog
matings are more likel-y from the 7tn to the thh day of

estrus. Individzal "n.9tion" are very co mon. A bitch in

cason is us ally more (Acitabic .Uiri, shie urinates often
and the vulva is vcrf 1v .-1; 1:.9 is a oloody vaginal discharge
which later become

;. 2. 2135118

cl
after intromission gla ns penis anlarges and cannot be with~
drawn until orgazn has frnishea. During msting, the dog and
bitch may turn from the normal position to a backwto—back
pﬁsition. To incrc as: the bossibility of conception occurring,
ttx) 03? 131199; 9 rtizuzs :39 mild} tn: 9. ...... 1cmwzc.

Cepulation in dogs is prolonged bccause ”tving" occurs;
m1

Lasts about 9 weeks. In ttin bZVLMKO foetus are often
palpable at 3 weeks. From a~7 weeks papetion is dil ficult, after
7 weeks pregnancy diagnosis should present little difficulty.
Palpation for pregnancv diagnosis should be discouraged because
damage may be done by Lnskilled palp ation and there is little to
be gaineJ becau-3 a barren Ditch will not return to season until
long a1”ter her erpec ted parturition date. The pregn nan tbitch
should be fqﬂ normally until the sixth ne.ak oi pregnancy when
progressive incr9999s in the amount or Iood should be made.

 




 

.Obesitf
l pint
weeks

.s of pregnancy m.st'bC
COW' milk may f’rd (3.13); in

the early WCC

(‘4

1, ,_
D Q i;

( 5 litres) of
OI pK‘C gnane

’31-,-

“W

of
the night.
titC

3. Parturition 1s s13ldom d1lilpU1b in C1 tbho
conformation, lt frequently occurs during
signs of imminCnt whelping Cre loss of

dr in body temperature.

a f)<. th—ma

a. (1",)

.4.

giL-‘fOidUﬂ.o

-ormal-

m

the

LiLng and

L. Puppies arC usually horn in rapil succession, although a hitch
tasz longC_ C‘iduCin hCr first 11 ta that subseouCnt onCs. 1
vhelping ’iteh sheuld he disturth as littJC as po sCiole, but if

any hitch strains for an hCu: Without veoduc1n a puppy a vetC1inar7
surgeon should‘he mo ulth 1ﬂl‘dL t11y. It is a Wise preca11tion
to have all -Ccth Cxamined by “ VCIK“11 ry siwii jeon on the day

after WhC

[.__J

(‘-
(3

or fOb-JLLn

.' "
'\

J

Small bitch1s c
up
ajyte

:11”‘.LL ,-3
1:“: CZL‘LIIJ Lllf ‘,7

TCC‘

C331? §3111'Cw;
{Ur lIL/‘nDC I‘E“:
granticc

n r
Laig
but thC

J“ . ~ r‘ “n",
b“ 51X. all. t,

tion not

C
_ C‘
in.)

pejiv 1 1 C
pup1ics may he destroyyd by thC intJaCCritonC”l cti
pentooaroitoie soditm.solution.

.9'.
U

foods sho11ld be 1:
later.

SupplCantary feeding should star
'Weeks old. ht first milk and ccreal
finely scraped raw meat should added

'I
,1,“
UL

weaned at eight Wei; ks of age by fh.iCh timC they shou1
two milk and cereal and two meat 111e51lsetzch day. She
be reduced to three at L months, two 1t 8 months and th

adult feeding at 1 year of

G. thes1a.

‘3 .
1 ma ‘4'; S

ha"h1tur”:e is the mos t

The

(x
C L.

litroVenous injection of
method o1 anCCCtth dogs.

a
-1 '7'

‘ -' no} r)!
.h— 0.1—1 .L 3:7

the most conva nient site. The log shoCl ChC clippCd :
with spirit and the. dog held by an &SP:bIdDC 's shoWn h

f . _. f‘ ‘ ~ r "_ ‘ 1" h 1, ‘ ,. (N a f\- a
n needlC 15 mn. long Cy e. an. horC on an Cc Cntr
syringe is su1tool: for most dogs:

L._

The th barbiturates most conxoniz ust 1re po
sodium.and thiopentone sodium. PentoharhitonC sodium (1

Ba

.
‘1 L“'

-LQ

l

.5”;-

usually used a s
approxiuaJCly lc
than the estiLECth

Th6 13713113

1 \
Segatal, kCr.) —

m

K.I
..

Abhott, why and
containing gr er co. dosage is
2.5 Kgm. bOQyVL 3h little more
the dog should he pu at in the syringC.

Cmmenled

when puppies are

(;<—;;l’,,1h:»3>1iC‘ V_:in Of tilt} forelimb is

ntoha

011 1111153

. Surplus
on oi

three
iven but

They are best

d be having
mes may
normal

’1

lb

CT:

satisfactory

nd swabbed
elo ovz-

ic nozz.1ed

rhitone
Temhutal,
olution
c. per
dose for
t be

is

 

‘1‘

given v01 y slo 'yt ‘1 1til thC reo_uier T31anC of anaestc‘“
reached. At least 2 minutes must no taken. Surgical
anaesthesia should be mainta‘1_Co ior l hour. RCcovery

and noisy.

Thiopentone sodium.(ECntotha1, d.BCle1) is

is long

short acting

 




 

 

and may ho usod fog minc ; LLOCCuuLCC or Lay bc used for induction.
‘ ttor cog? an1C1thr14” may oC continuod With Ct1C/O Tcon

H. outn luciLr Two mCthodc ate rocomandodz~
l. Introvonouw injection of“ Cntob““b t1r1C sodium at three timos
tho “WuCcunthc dosage. i%ﬂ injocti n moy'bo givon ragidly.

2. Shoot in2 with a cC}CJV1 bolt piLJol in tho contro of tho
cranium. Tho correct no Wion ic ShoWn in tho diC2wuq.

..... .—

1. Signs of hoolth.

Lm~na

TnC hCm tngy dog is alCrt, unafxt and ho8 a good "roe LCC. _ .
Tho rectal tomporaturo ”LCIid bC 100. ~ E — .f) Wt (BEFLA C u 58.500).
Thoro ohould bo no diccw~r7C fror11tbo oyCc on nouo. Tn: W13’“n
should to mmli—formod and brovn in cglour; thC urino should bC
clear and froC Iron1,loumon (soc-Shooteﬁ:éﬁ. Tho mouth ng toC
should be cloor and frog from objoctionablo :oCll.

if

f-C’F!
If

ii};

PM,

1nC Virus disoasos of tho harlond/distompor complex and
contagious virus ho.atitis (R.D.) Cid bactcriul nCpC";t_C arc

o moot d:* ndorou Lnicctiouc disoaocs of dogr. . Thoy all cauoo
tho do offC cth to appCor VCry unwoll and to havo a high toroor'“urC.
L veterinary surgoon should bo Consuitod immodiatCiV about
trCca tmont and tomporary or porn onCnt provontivo Lno*“l i no.

 




13317111 - so: 1104 1112‘ 11101112237: N c refs 11

‘”‘T T'T; ‘ :1. \ m’:
“.1“: Kim '3)“ (14:31:11.1..L'.

§“te111ﬂ11.U;Ca and lbf§%lLC t1on

nagtm‘um

13e11111t1c111.

(“HQ 1:. ( F“ 4:" Kin ' ' “"ﬂ .. (:11 1’“ '23-:
1" C {1‘4 U C, 3 LL \JcerJS a);
:2; the—1-31.711; .

1 Thel il 'in: of reanism

of chemica ,r o.rs1eil 261t~ to contaminated obje

S1e11liaaaion in the animal house is necessary in order to
destrogr infected Mate ial os"1';3 from infected animals. Anima s
may be infec te<3 during the course o:i CTULflﬂ‘nos or accidentally,
during nati1a11” occuring (intercurren1) infections Pathogenic
(i.3.d sease producing)opan1sms occur amona3 the viruses, bacteria.
fungi and p10tozot and so long as the sterilizing3 conditions used
are adequate to ki1 ll the most resistant members of these groups
one can be sure of hiev: ng a satisfactor hygienic routine. Other
groups or organisms d<nematodes, mites etc. i will all be killed under
these conditions. Spore forming bacteri 1a e.g 3.1nthfac1s
(causative organism.01i anthrax) arc pTobauly tlie most resistant
organis see one is likely to r30u11o to kill if the conditions used
are ac justed so as to kill this type of organism the; all other
o1caoisms will also be killed. Various methods used to achieve
sterilization will be described in tu rn, but one or two general
factors must be kept in mind in OEdCX that sterilization can be
carried out efficiently.

First of all th. 'aa1” izing agent used must be able to get
in1ected mate is r g heat mus t be applied1for a sufficient
of time Ior it t ”f s3 penctcate and then sterilize the
of beddirgp 1at " used in elves. Secondly the COPd'“lOﬂ°

sed must be bacterio ;» and notmorclv bacteriost tic, i. e. must
kill bacteria and not j . inhibito ; prev :1t them temporarily from
multiilwing This last state of 111 irs is vart1.u1srlv liable to
occur when che nical dis infeCtants are Unto. The disinfectant may
become very dilute 1or example or be partially neutralized by soil
frOm previously treat d cages. - Tlie lethal action of e disiliicctant,
is due in the main to it s capacitv to res ct with the protein and in
particular the enZymeso of micro-organisms. Anya agent thereiore
which will coagulate, precipitate or othem . se denature proteins will

t as a general disinfectant. Among such'agents are heat

0

emicals and 1,1raa11tion.

c
h

f:
V

 




   
   
 

 

methods of Sterilization

 

1. Heat.

 
 

Heat is probably the most important agent used for the
destruction of microuorganisms. Bacteria are in general more
susceptible to moist heat than to dry heat. Sterilization
pith moist heat depends largely upon coagulation of the cell
proteins whilst sterilization.with dry heat depends more on
the oxidation of cell components for its effect. In general
among bacteria'which are parasites of mammalian anima_s,
Non—sporing forms in a moist state cannot stand temperatures
above 4500 for any length of time. Some species however,
(those of the Bacillus group) develop highly resis ant Spore
stageS'ehich are capable of surviving this and considerably
higher temperatures for a comparatively long time.

 

 

 

IMoist heat. The_application of moist heat by the means of

an autoclave or by'what is usuall; referred to as free—steaming
are probably the most commonly used sterilizing techniques in
the animal house.

 

Free—steaming is perhaps the simplest nethod of sterilizing

cages. Cages and any other equipment which rill'with~stand this
treatment Can be either sprayed with jets of steam in tunnel
'washer or placed in a dairy type storilizer. This consists of

a large galvanized iron chest into which steam is passed or in
which steam.is generated by boiling water in the lower part of

the apparatus. Theoretically one is unable to achieve
temperatures hig‘rer than 10000311;- practice temperatures are unlikely
to reach very much above 8500 but experiments have shown that if
steaming is carried out for sufficient length of time (under most
conditions 1 to 1%;- are.) this treatment will kill Salmonella typhi—
murium and even tubercle bacilli in shallow layers of litter in

"CJ_A 1

the bottom of cages (see the report by Cage sterilisation sub committee).

In free steaming processes the steam is applied to the cages
under more or less normal atmospheric pressure. In the autoclave
steam is applied under an increased pressure, here the object is
to supply moist heat to the surfaces to be disinfected at a
temperature greater than lOOOC.

 

Eggmpraﬁures of Saturated Steam Under Pressure

 

 

 

Lbs press‘re on Autoclave ' Desre3s F. Degrees C.

5 ' - 227.1 ' 108.4
10 259.4 115.2
15 249.8 121.0
20 258.0 126.0

    




3.

xThe'temperature‘at Which water boils, and therefore steam

'is formed. depends upon the pressure of'the air or steam above
the surface of the boiling water. If C;ne can increase this
pressure the temperature of the boiling water (and therefore

the steam) can be increased as shown in the table. The
autoclave is simply a device for holding articles to be
sterilized in an atomosphere of steam und_er pic’sUJO The
pressure generally employed is l5 lbs p1cr souer; incha at which
prcmsuee saturated steam attains a .omprritn e of 120 C. 30 mins.
eXpOsure to this temo«ro* re 's usually sufiic :‘ﬂt to kzi ll all
forms of microworgan:Lsms including baCterial spores.

autoclLVJnU is un<01btecly the saiec and most efficient
may of sterilizing almost any kind of apparatus and is most
3ssenti al Lere COUlDﬂL|t has held animals infected with organisms

;hich might be (iangerous to man.

2. Chemical.

 

For disinfection to occur there must be a chemical reaction
between the disinfectant and the micro-o rganis m. The disinfectant
has to &CLUW11y touch the organism; if the organism is embedded in
cage dirt, no contact is made and no disinfection results. All
soil should be removed fromcsages before attempting to use a
disinfecta.nt for sterilization. Or(@1nic mLC tter 1a; either cover
the organi.sm so that th: dis sinfectant cannot reach :Lt, it may
ouuralize the disinfecting action by c'ombininrv with the disinfectant
chemically or it ma y absoro the disinfectant and thus reduce the
amout of active “lclnlpct‘nt.' infcet nts Vork best then they
and the surfaces to be disinfec med a1e vvarm. -The acidity or
alkalinity of the disinfectant or the surface to be disinfected
should be considered in the selection of dis initctint for example
a hypochlorite s lutlon is most ;ctive in slightly acid conditions
while the Quaternary ammonium compounds are generally mos t efficient
under a haline CQﬁdlthnQ

Tn general disinfectants work best by themselves. TFor example,
soap may act as a 'wetting agent' and enable one to clean the surface
nmo e thoroughly but it will at the same time react with and
neut1alize a good many disinfectants.

It is also po s;11'ble to sterilize material 1y means of gasses
such as Formald ”by vapour or etPVlene OX"1d€ but these techni Wq
are unlikely to b:: used in the normal ani house.

Phenol and cre sol oroounds. Phenol i.s not used much these days
aS~a disinfect ar t Oresol . mpounds and cr Lsol'containing
solutions are m01 e usually used. ’ The optimum of concentration is
about 5%Qfor most 01 these. This type of disinfectc ant is cheap
and readily obtained and destroys nee rly all bacteria and other
organisms except those ”hiChl orm spores. They function chiefly
as protein denaturants.

 

 




    

Hypochlorites and Halogens : Hypochlorites and the halogens
‘CElorine and iodine) are in general very good disinfectants.
Hypochlorites particularly are cheap and readily Obtainedg'they
are hoWever corrosive and are not always advised for use on metal
equipment in the animal house for this reason. 'They are also
very readily neutralised by organic matter so that they are used
most efficiently on items which have already been cleaned in the
usual mechanical sense.

Surface Active Compounds : Surface active compounds (i.e. compounds
which in water solutions lower the surface tension of water and thus
increase the wetting capacity of the solution) haveaehieved great

s disinfectants within the last few years. They are

highly bactericidal at comparatively high dilutions, are of low

toxicity and these days are readily available. There are several
different groups of chemice s which fall within this category. The
natural and many of the synthetic soaps are classified as anionic V
surface active compounds but these are in general_poor haetcricides.
Quaternary ammonium.compounds such as Oetrimide and benzalkomium chloride
are on the other hand classed as cationic substances. 5 third group
which has recently come into prominence are the ampholytic agents

such as "Tego" and a number ofcther chemicals which are not generally
'availehle to the public at present. There are subtlsphysical—chemical
differences which differentiate these groups of compounds.ifhese two groups
cfcompoundaeuaternary ammoniums and ampholytes) have much the same
propterties so far as the animal house is concerned. They are
relatively nonrtoxic and capable of leaving residues on treated surfaces
which both retain some bacteri

'cidal properties and enable subsequent
cleaning Operations to he carried out more easily. They are also

fairly efficient detergents and help in this way to clean the surfaces
machanically. This is an extremely useful property from the point

of View of cleaning animal house walls, shelves, cages, tables and
similar apparatus. In general the} are used in concentration of about
l3 and their activity is increased if they are used hot. Short and
Perkins (ref.in.sTn Journal) have described the use of one of these

for general animal room cleaning purposes. The technique

compounds
described is to he ecommended although prolahly other chemicals might
be found which are just as efficient as’Tego

prominence a

There are a wide variety of Chemical disinfectants on the market,
some of which are listed in the accompanying table. In general one
should use these accorhing to the makers instructions, hearing in
mind the points listed above.

t Table

w

it may he noted that under certain conditions various

Finally,
sed for sterilization, hut in general

forms of radiation can be u

these methods are.inapplicahle to animal house conditions.

 

 

t See page 5.”

     




TABLE
opiate}: BRIT]: SH DI SINEECTANT .

 

 

'nlblass or H‘ I Industrial Manufactured Effective
Type last) by' againSt

(an)

.- - ~-g-.~_C" cue..- now-*F‘

 

 

 

71111 orine , , , .
-'ndine Inst bacteria Usually used as the hypocnlorite
." ‘ which are not usually used in the
animal house.

Chloros kbst bacteria Cheap; effective; somewhat

and viruses 0 rrosive and not usually

reco mended far reheated use on
metal items; rather readily
neutralized by soil faeees etc.

 

J

Sod. hypochlorite Hopkin.&
( l 0% m7; Chl or ine Yifil l i ams 3 as ab ove

 

Lysol B.P. * Mbst bacteria - ; EQQ Cresol in soap solution. Good
including general disinfectant.

myco tuberculosis

not spores General disinfectant, must be used

or . in sufficient concentration.
135. 11500374116113 Compatable with soap

Tresol and
fhlorxylenol i Jeypine and
other brands

ﬁuaternary f Nonidet 52G iMost bacteria A_very useful bactericidal deter—

'gmmonium ; gent for general use. Net to be

1*cmpounds ; mixed with.other materials <3.g.
. ‘e‘avlon Most bacteria Soap.

and viruses As above; low toxicity; useful

for‘water-bottles.
Cetrimide 3P Glovers

Eﬂpholytes ? Tego MEG Bough, Hoseason. Host bacteria as above
' euriCo.thd.,

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




-' "I.

No, a. mean? .- OMEFD 307’ 11319301”;

 

» ~'—l~.:.'.:\_ﬁ '1

An atom is the smallest quantity of an element which can exist
and still retain the chemical prOperties of the element. It consists
of a minute, positively charged nucleus, (in which the mass of the atom
is concentrated), and of surrounding electrons. The charge in the
nucleus corresponds to the atomic number.

In a neutral atom the surrounding negative electrons are equal
.in number to the positive charges in the nucleus. The number and
arrangement of these electrons determine the preperties of the atom
except the atomic weight and the degree of radio—activity.

lastsrsa a

.An isotOpe is composed of two or more chemical elements having
the same atomic numbers, the same nuclear charge, equal numbers and
arrangements of orbital electrons and identical chemical prOperties,
but the chemical elements differ either in atomic weight or in the
structure of the nucleus. .a radio~active isotOpe is produced by
bombarding the element in a cyclotrone (a high frequency radio
oscillator) where the nuclei of atoms are shattered by bombardment
with neutrons.

Réqiﬂﬁiggs

In general, the emission of any rays (wave motion or particles)
applies to the em'ssion of electromagnetic waves which have a Wide
range of vibrations or wave motions not requiring any known material
medium for their prOpogation e.g. gamma rays, X rays, U V rays,
visible light rays, infra red, and.Hertzian in that order of increas-
ing wave lengths.

Raéiotaat mass.

The spontaneous disintegsation of unstable atomic nuclei,
ultimately producing a more stable nuclei. This action is accompanied
by the emission of charged particles e.g. Alpha and Beta particles and
the more powerful electro~gamma rays. "

:Egiﬁiﬁﬁﬁa-

Roentgen (symbol r) is the unit by which the dosage of radiation
is measured. r. is the degree of radiation which will produce
ionisation in l 00. of air at (S.T.P.) amounting to one electrostatic
unit of electric charge (either positive or negative .

 




Guess

Is the degree of measurement of activity in a radioisotOpe
substance. It is that quantity of a radioisotOpe which disintegrates
at a given rate per secondc

1E3:
.An atom or a group of atoms having a charge or positive (cation)
or negative (anion) electricity.

Irradiation produces the effect of ionisation e.g. as the particles
pass through atoms they remove one of the electrons encircling the
nucleus; produce excitement of the molecules. The loss of this electron
unstabilizes the atom electrically which now becomes charged and is
known as an ion° '

lasiaetise RfLihe liviesssll .

7.: . IIIIII

The genes, chromosomes and cell protein are directly split by
ionisation which also splits some of the water in the cell into highly
reactive hydrogen and hydroxide radicals; this in turn activates various
enzymes and disturbs normal cell function.

g’melic.a.t.ian.. of. lemmas:

There is a wide variety of applications. New specialized equipment
has been designed to use with isotOpes in industry, science and medicinec

.Application may fall into one of the following three categories:~

Tracers
Absorption and scatte
lonisation. .

TraCBEJWQEhQQEL

(Endustgyz To follow the movement of a marked substance (i.e. mixing
processes). ‘

.éﬁlgﬁﬁﬁi Measuring the excretion rates of vitamins, proteins, salts
and other chemical substances (i.e. thyroid actiVity may be measured by
radio—active iodine). Tests for the success of a skin graft may be done
by labelling the blood, then following its progress into the graft.

_ Medigigg: The most important is the therapeutic treatment of
malignant diseases.

fiaamiiee -andmaaaiisl: .

Used chiefly in industry for measurement and control of thickness

 




~ 3 7

(i.e. paper, lino, metal foils and similar materials).

Imlwtlon
IQﬁEﬁ§§X3 Sterilization by radiation of pre-paoked drugs.
Foodstuffs may be sterilised'in a similar manner.
Synthetic and natural rubbers may be hardened by
radiation but no radio~aotivity is produced by gamma rays in the
irradiated m9befldl

Science: Mutation and cross polination of a variety of plants

t A'... 13. 2‘22“. 1.84.3...”

to produce new hybrids.

V-.q Treatment of malignant growth. Storage of human bone
or aorta. .

‘IEQEQBE?.EL CeLCCr_Therapy

LiQEQJLG ‘ rare ,3: L ife

P32 11+ . 3 days

I

Sodium ‘ 15 hours

131

I 8 days Decays with the emission of

beta and gamma rays.

35

Sulphur 87 days ‘ Beta rays.

1. -
Carbon 4 6,000 years

Hes lth'ﬂaza rds: Definition of acti

‘AaJ—‘ZH.IJ. I.‘. :..-t..v..u

hazard unles sproPer precautions a

iracer level Up to lo microcuries
LlIJed-Q

larm level: 10 microouries ~ 1 millicurie represents
iOSSlLl] irom _nh;l(tioa or ingestion.

Semi—hot level: l millicurie to 100 millicuries. Potential ha aardsz~

Inhalation, ingestion, contamination and radiation. Adequate
shielding should be provided.

Tissue senSlthG to damage

£.—‘ 1—.

.7

l. Lympatic. 2. Red bone marrow. 9. Testicular epithelium.

a. Gastro—intestinal mucosa. 5. Skin.

 




 

 

isiieiastons,‘La‘wmtorio

There is no standard pattern for a radioisotope laboratory but the
following principles are worthy of consideration.

Surface materials:

) Smooth and nonporous

g Resistant to corrosion
Nonvionic

; Heat resisting
Non~absorbent

panels

CD

Such surfaces will provide the minimum activity retention and the
maximum.decontamination possibilities.

heat in “bi Eighties.-

Air conditioning if installed must be entirely separate from the
remainder of the building. Exhausts must be well above and well clear
of any other building, or of any other area likely to be used by humans
or animals. Simple, cheap, easily cleaned and replaceable electric
heaters are considered adequate. Normal hot water radiators collect dust
and are therefore a hazard.

Simple, easily replaceable flourescent tubes are considered adequate
for lighting. All fuses, switches and controls to be placed outside the.

laboratory.

 

Ft99?%a

Cheat, easily removed floor covering is recommended (ice. well waxed
linoleum slight contamination may be removed by removing the wax,
serious contamination simply entails the cutting and removing of the
contaminated linoleum.

lls
v. 1.1 Do

'w; ‘7‘." ' tr. 3

For general purposes walls should be finished with a high gloss
painto

8 511k 3. Rilﬁgg

I'44.’ 11.:

A simple system with the minimum number of bends or other
repositories. Each sink should have a separate trap and be easily
accessible for cleaning or replacing. Rigid polythene or pyreX pipes

and fittings are recommendedo

Generalgfipeworgg

at. 3' 4‘34"."—

   

Gas, water and air pipes also electric conduits should be encased

 
 




 

behind a removable panel.

Minimum amount of furnishings in polished hardwoodo
orlrinLi ”or? o_es,

Norm1l bench teps, which must be covered with some cheap,
removable material. ;Po olythene s prefer1ble; it can be welded or
softened and pres :cd rte any desired s1aoe The rigid vc.riety of
polythene (polyvinyl chloride: IVQV.(-) may also be usedo

Trays and all other working surfaces must be covered with a
disposable materiel (i.e. “Celephene” , thin polythene sheets, plastic
impregnated paper or bitumen interlr'ved paper).

T (”rm—L
General eei cdtﬂ
”71°11. .- .r: 4.21: t .v

5'3 m~.$

Changing and o011teninetion Inonitoring rooms should be provided
near the entrance0 nsoor1torics should be so designed to ensorc thet
there is e 5r1dusnt of activity (i.o. oiiice belgnee end counting
rooms are remote frorn 11r1~ o1 hi5h activity$

Stor1ee of active I1terielo

rarw'

secure, accessible pl ce with 1deouete provision for shielding.
Consideration must be given to positioning i.e. the floor above and
below must not be overlooked i section or the store should be set
aside ( adequately protected) for Opening containers and dispensing.

hieldlng 1iteri’ls.

$2.5. $43. .1...”

Concrete, briehs, lead, glass, aluminium or perspex.

‘Tithin the laboratory 1 well shielded fume cupboard with adequate
air extraction fans.

Extra precautions should be taken by placing bottles Of liQUid
inside beekers, then place on trays,

Ton3s, pipettes ete., used in rtdio~1otive we r: must be set aside for
use with individual isotopes. .i si'ple oolour code has been found
satisfactory i.e. red for phosphorus; blue ior iodine, yellow Ior
sulphur etc.

A ”Dr3L hex“

rz‘tsscsa.1.u-

‘ dry box‘ is a mineture labor1tory within a laboratory. iTitted

.J..\.

with its own independent extract system, the eir being removed through

 




filters. The pressure within the box being ma ntainea at less than
atmospheric to prevent dust or vapour leaking into the laboratory.
Dry boxes are used when alpha emitters are being manipulated.
Such emitters have no radiation hazard, but a high contamination and
ingestion hazard.
Esseisiinep
Regimentation is undesirable and unnecessa . Never-the—less,
when a laboratory presents a health hazard a strict set of rules must

be laid down and adhered to.

The following set of rules are only suggestions, but well worth
consideration;—

1. Protective clothing and footwear must be worn and discarded in
the facilities room provided.

Movement, storage and diSpensing of radio—active materials
must be under the_control of a responsible person.

Necessary materials only to be brought into the laboratory.
No eating, drinking or smoking in the laboratory.

No mouth Operations to be allowed e.g. pipettes, wash bottles
and labels must never touch the mouth.

'Work on radio—active material must never be undertaken by a
person with an Open wound above the collar or below the wrist.

Prepared samples only allowed in the counting rooms.

All waste materials must be placed immediately in suitably
labelled receptacles.

Taps, switches, etc., must be haidled with disposable tissues.
(Rubber gloves may be a source of contamination)

lO. Gloves, clothing, apparatus and benches must be monitored after
all radio-active materials have been removed.

Deeentemisaﬁéqag

Two methods are employed.

'Egygiggg. Cleaning, polishing or the removal of the surface by
abrasives. Removal of strippable materials. Vacuum cleaners may
be used but they do present certain hazards. .Abrasives remove

 




 

 

m7...

tOp surfaces and may leave the material absorbent.

2. 'ghgmiggla The use of acids or alkalines with or without What is
known as a carrier, which is the inactive form of the radio-active
element oomplexing agent and ion exchange materials. Complexing
agents render the radio-active element no longer ionisable (among
the better known are sodium salts of ethylene diamine tetracetic
acid.(EDTi) obtainable in solid form or incorporated in creams and
soaps). Ion exchange medium absorbs the activity; fullers earth
may he used as ai ion exchange medium.

!

sunglasses Mathssaéiaaﬁmseial 2 ate ialso

.‘nl—J‘ ' .114-- 1.431;:ng 1...". .I' .l. .‘I '1'

0 C O 0 q i f I O O
Iglas§.INormal cleaning With chromic acid solution, 10%>nitric sold,

’1

’ca rier’ solution in lo? hydrooholoric acid 2%§amnnniun biflouride.

éEEEEEEEEEs 10% nitric acid, sodium phosphate, or sodium metasilicate.
Steel; Inhibited phosphoric acid 9.89 (DGOXidinO) 125’ 170°
Electrolysis in lggnitric acid, using the steel as anode.

§E£§§L£EQLP§C . Dilute HCL well rinsed off and neutralized. If chemical

1'
tr“

exchange has occurred in lead, decontamination is not easy.

If: .mx‘z.‘ ..

Brickmorkz Sandblasted.
Concrete. Sandblasted.

Lino. If well waxed, remove the wax coating with a recommended solvent
i.e. xylene or trichlor ~ ethylene.

Paintgork. ‘Washed with a detergent, ammonia citrate or ammonium
biflouride.

Clothing. Normal laundering. L solution of EDTA is useful in cases of

“‘6‘. .- 12-11 ~ 4.

heavy contamination.

Eﬂﬂﬁﬁn Well scrubbed with soap and water. Use a titanium dioxide
“(paste or EDTA soap. If they become heavily contaminated they may be
immersed in saturated potassium solution, rinsed then dipped in a
5ﬁ§solution of bisulphate.

Dias :aa

CJ.--Kn ‘ -’

 

1’: Remnants ”sass

~Radio~active waste may present a health hazard, therefore, such
waste must not be disposed of without the consent of the local.
authority, after which low levels of activity may be discharged into
sewers, burned, turiei or disposed of in a manner approved of by the
International Committee on Radiebiological Protection°

D
I

 




ihiQBiQE: The level of activity discharged into a drain will depend
very largely on the activity of the drain and the amount of waste
flowing through it. Regular frequent monitoring must be undertaken
to ensure that a high level of activity does not build up in the
drainage system... '

géglidgﬁ Radio—active waste should be placed in wax or polythene bags,
then.placed in suitably marked and protected bi.s whilst awaiting
collection. Local authority will decide on a site suitable for
disposa . Some solid vastes may be incinerated but cinerator ash must
be regarded as solid active waste, before such waste is handled it must
be well damped down.

ggeliygry of Radioisgtgpgsmtqu i ale} The delivery of radioisotOpes to
small animals is usually undertaken in the labOratory where all the
necessary apparatus for dispensing and screening is available. If an
animal room is necessary it should be in close prtximity to the
laboratory. The general principles as laid down for the laboratory
should apply. Equipment and apparatus be maintained at the absolute
minim .

 

 

.Iﬁﬁﬁggctions for Oral admgpistgggion; Oral administration of radio—
activefmaterial presents a healthﬁhazard, especially the risk of intense
localized exposure to the hands of personnel. In View of this the time
taken for administration should be kept to a minimum and spills should
at all times be avoided,

Animals,apparatus and equipment should be prepared well in advance.

solution administered by stomach tube is the most practical and
easily accomplished method of delivery.
giggllmggiggtggéﬂ i short piece of polythene tubing attached to the end
Of a fitted needle is quite satisfactory (after use the polythene tubing
must be discarded). Small specially designed ball pointed metal stomach
tube which is attached directly on to the syringe may be used for rats,
mice and guinea pigs. ” '

M wins-7.- 11’6 211:1 . 1

232;. l. .hnacsthetic unnecessary .
2. Immobilize the animal by firmly grasping the head and
shoulders with one hand.
Open the animal's mouth by applying slight p0sitivc
pressure over the jaws with the thumb and forefinger.
small guarded pair of forceps may be inserted to keep
the mouth Open.
Gently insert the stomach tube in the normal manner
Content of.syringe is thbn injected directly into the
delivery tube. '
Remove syringe and replace by a syringafull of distilled
water and wash the dose into the animal‘s stomach.

 




 

-9-

7. Place the animal in a cage (which should have been prepared
beforehand).

leis—ﬂ ans

1. Complete anaesthesia for ease of manipulation.
2. after injection the animal must be regarded as:~

(a ' A source of‘external radiation.
I p _ l o O O O
\b A source of contamination from expired radio~active

4..-

materials and excretao

gases;

1. Simple design with removable grids and floors.

2. Minimum surface area caposed to excretions.

3; Reduce to a minimum evaporation loss.

4‘ Minimize the danger of cross infection of faeces and urine

5. All cages should be readily replaced and discarded when
contaminated.

3:13:95 rabbits.-

CoprOphagy is a normal physiological function of the rabbit.
Recycling of the ingested radio—active faecal matter may interfere
with an experiment, therefore, the animal should be fitted with a
collar to prevent this function.

Contamination of the area and the animal itself with excreta must
be minimizedo Male rabbits are liable to splash urine around,

therefore, the cage must be designed to prevent this.

Expired Gasegg

 

Special precautions are necessary when experiments are undertaken
which will involve activity in expired air.

Low levels of activity may not present a health hazard? but there is
danger of cross contamination if animals are placed in close proximity.

Gases are normally disposed of by hoods or ventilator stacks.
Precautionary measures must at all times be observed to prevent

inhalation of active ases especiallir if Carbon la is being used.
3 i J

Care must be taken to prevent contamination from urine and faeces.

Design and positioning of cages will eliminate cross contamination
to a considerable degree.

 




he? as Jimmie -

.Qsiiaaﬁhesnz. Eﬁ‘ﬁissls’aeg.

Stands, stalls and the like are normally designed and made on the
premises. They should be adjustable and adaptable to meet the various
requirements.

The necessary watering, feeding and restraining devices should be
incorporated in the design but they muSt be simple and easily dismantled
in part or in their entirety.

Arrangements must be made for the disposal of large amounts of
excreta and carcass material, a percentage of which will contain long
lived isotopes.

Administration of radio-active material to large animals presents
several hazards, particularly body exposure and the hands of personnel.
Shielded syringes should be used. Simple syringe shields of ’lucite’
are quite satisfactory for use with beta~emitters.

nfter administration the external radiation hazard decreases because
the activity generally distributes throughout the whole mass of the
animal.

 




