 

 

 

THE

ENDOWMENT 0F TORTURE

 

 

Revelations from the Rockeleller Hell. New York. I909,

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

“Who would mangle the living dog which had loved him
and fawned at his knee ?”——Temzyson.

THREE AFFIDAVITS

From Employees at the Rockefeller Institute for Medical Research,
New York, U.S.A., made Dec. 3rd, 1909.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Published by the British Union for the Abolition of Vivisection,
The‘British Anti-Vivisection Society,
32 CHARING CROSS, WHITEHALL, LONDON, S.W.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




1 - 1 ﬁg: “

-~ :13“; -; ,c -_-7 “ :

s wwwwxi‘ei”
. 1“ ' ; _ M"

 

 

 

 

BRITISH UNION FOR ABOLITION OF VIVISECTION

(The British Anti=Vivisection Society).

 

 

32 CHARING Caoss,

WHITEHALL,
LONDON, S. W.

TO ENGLISHMEN AND ENGLISHWOMEN.

 

 

The accompanying Afﬁdavits give a picture, none the less instructive because

it comes from those unversed in the mysteries of science, of what is done behind the

”tscenes in a perfectly equipped Institute of Medical Research by men who are con-

sidered eminent in their profesSion. In. presenting it to those Whom I would fain

‘ :~—‘&;.- . ‘ - i . . ‘ . , .
«mum-:1- L's. (‘1‘;7 .; t; ,; .,...L “1.11,. » 2-1 ' ~ 3.1;.<~: 11., . A . . ’ \ ~ 7 . -
. _ .5, W" _ {:1 1-1; ~- 31... v " WW“ I ._ 4 .. ' nu - 'l . 1 1 , -
(d ' ”T11"? 'f «warn-7% 7.x, * Eﬁit—‘z’- ~—,:.,[’ ~ r‘ 1;,m. L: - . «sa- ;,. 414;..- ;,"p..« ~31, '1“ . 1,...” «.1 ~ :12.

induce to join us in Our opposition to expeliments on living animals, I am aware that

I Shall be met with the ready retort: “ These things are not done in England!”

!
:1.

1177 ("“'~ .465 .13, ,r. ,w. a:

How do We know C3 The laboratorles are places closed to all outs1ders. very
occasionally, an inspector enters , but he is a medical scientist himself, a man in whom
the spirit .Of professional etiquette is strong, even if the zeal for vivisection is not
Still stronger. It is noteworthy that the two British Inspectors under the
Act Of 1876 gave copious evidence before the recent Royal Commission of the

“ value ”' and “necessity ” of vivisection.

.This System is inseparable from; cruelty. Animals kept for these purposes
cannot be treated “humanely,’5 for they are denied all rights; the amount of pain
inﬂicted may vary from time . to time, in one country and in another, but vivisection
is everywhere ONE and vivisectors form a Compact Fraternity. Only by abolishing
the system itself (which I afﬁrm tO be as useless as it is immoral), can we Obtain the

guarantee that these things do not, and never shall, occur in English laboratories

Who will help us in forcing England, to lead the way?

WALTER R. HADWEN, M.D.,
President and Hon. Secretary.

 

'1 ,, ”ﬂ; ; :5 5!". 1 . . *ik ~IA£:L;;:;.L.;:L..1 -

   
  
  
  
  
 
  
 
 
   
    
    
    
  
    
 
 

 

 

 

  
 

 

 

 
  
 

  
  




$45;

I . . l
‘19:: 4.- rgﬁs . g .
,7. A A ,. ~ ..

 

xyﬁﬂi. ’2‘" 17- .- . . ’L-ZPV‘ ‘9'} I ‘ ~
H -“vr' ,\- a." " 5

-.v~»1..L-_A‘£:£"_L—; ﬁg; ¢.; -

 

 

 

__,__, _._..‘ L,.~.__..i.,..s __,_,_L .

(the

Enbowment of ”torture

 

Revelations from the Rockefeller Hell,
NEW YORK, 1909.

 

FIRST AFFIDAVIT.

Statement of

Mrs. MARY L. KENNEDY.

Facts pertaining to experiments made
by Dr. Carrel in Rockefeller Institute,
amade to the New York Anti-Vivisec-
tion Society, November 22nd, 1909 :—

Dr. Carrel, Miss Lilly, Emil Clausnitzer and I saw the
experiments performed. Sometimes Dr. Flexner would
come in for a few minutes. ' '

I went there October ZIst, 1908, cleaning in the after-
noons.

Miss Lilly discharged a Miss Butler, who had assisted
Dr. Carrel in his operations for about two years before Miss
Lilly came. Miss Lilly then hired another girl and
explained the work to her. This young girl was about
eighteen. Miss Lilly showed her how to thread needles,
etc. After about an hour this young girl asked me where

Miss Lilly’s room was. I told her No. 505. The young
girl apparently went to this room to see Miss Lilly, and
when she was asked whether the girl had been there Miss
Lilly said no, she had not.

It was then discovered that the girl had left. I suppose
it was because she was not able to stand the howlings and
moanings of the dogs and other animals. Then Miss Lilly
asked me if I would like that work [operations, etc.] and if
I was nervous at the sight of blood. I said I would of
course be nervous if I saw blood from any of my children.
As I needed work so much on account of my children,
although I didn’t care for that kind of work, I took the
position at $35 a month, beginning November 27th, 1908.
I felt I would do anything for my children.

Neck Operations under Light
Anaesthesia.

Dr. Carrel would cutout a piece of an artery, or vein, and
then sew the dog up. He would put the piece cut out into
cold storage; at other times he just cut the artery, or vein,
and sewed it up just as it was; or sometimes he would
transplant a piece of an artery, or vein, from one dog into
another. They often performed these Operations for the
beneﬁt of visitors. We called them “show off” operations.

 

 

1
:
g
I

Dr. Carrel would frequently make Miss Lilly sew up the
dogs after operations, while he would look on. He said he
was tired doing operations for people—he had done so
many—and that she should learn to do them, to show off
the operation. ' , '

One dog was found in a dreadful condition after a neck
operation, because the stitches of his wound broke down.
He was all covered with blood, and so was the ﬂoor of the
cage, and the wound was wide open its entire length, I
should say fully six inches. .

Leg Operations under Anaesthesia.

Dr. Carrel performed leg operations last year.

He put the ﬁrst dog on one table and cut off his leg, while
the second dog was being made ready; then he cut the leg
of the second dog; he then sewed the leg of the ﬁrst dog
to the body of the other dog. The dog without the leg
grafted on was just left to die.

After the operation the dog with the grafted leg was put
in a plaster cast. Then there was a galvanized iron stand
that had a piece of canvas stretched across it very tight on
a sort of frame. The dog was placed on this and buckled
down very tight. One strap went around the neck, one
back of the front legs, and another at the back. The
operated leg was sometimes suspended from a swing-like
arrangement; at other times it was bolstered up with little
cushions we made of non-absorbent cotton. The bandage
around the neck was so tight it had to be loosened so the
dog could swallow even soft nourishment.

The dog’s sufferings from the neck strap were just awful.
They were left there for days. Dr. Carrel kept one dog for
three weeks or more. The latter part of the time it was
down in his room lying on the ﬂoor, where it wasted away
to nothing until it just died. It was such a human-like
little dog—just like a baby in its sufferings. It would look
up at you so pitifully, and each time you would speak to it
or pet it, it would look up just as if it knew you were trying
to help it. The tears came to my eyes when I saw it lying
dead. I used to go into Dr. Carrel’s room every morning
to see how it was, and I found it one morning dead and out
of its misery.

About the third day the body would get black and green
and all colours, and swell up as big as a small keg, and it
was in an unspeakable condition. The odour was frightful.
No anaesthetic during this time. The dogs would moan and
cry like a baby and look at you so piteously. Sometimes
Dr. Carrel would take them off the stretched canvas, where
they were tied down immovable, and make an incision in
the wound and put in a rubber tube to drain off pus and
matter. He would often take hold of a dog’s leg and turn
and twist the grafted part to see if he could ﬁnd out whether
or not the bones had grown together.

This hurt the dog terribly. It was sickening; so much
so that I fainted. To see Dr. Carrel twist and turn the ~

 




 

grafted leg and to look at the poor animal suffer was awful.
Oh, to look at it was something terrible ! MISS Lilly said
that she thought it was strange that some people couldn’t
stand these things. The leg and ear grafting was awful.

The dogs began to swell up about three hours after the
leg operation. The swelling always started at the paws
and went all the way up. Dr. Carrel would press and push
his ﬁnger into the wounds; he would come in from the
street and not wash his hands and not use any antiseptic,
but go right over to the dog. Miss Lilly said that Dr.
Carrel would never have a success if he did not clean up
before going over to the dogs. Emil said it was all a bluff.

Dr. Carrel always used aluminium tubes to connect the
bones. He hammered one end of the tube into the bone of
the leg to be attached and then worked. the other end into
the marrow of the bone of the live dog and joined them.

The plaster casts would become hardened and rub against
the ﬂesh on the inside of the bend of the leg, causing it to
fester and become very sore. '

The skin on the grafted leg of the dog would become
dry, so I suggested that it would be a good idea to rub the
leg with vaseline or olive oil. Dr. Carrel said that he
intended to do it later.

Dr. Carrel kept the dogs till he couldn’t keep them any
longer. He gave up the ear dogs quicker. The leg dogs
wasted away to nothing, you know . . .

The leg dogs were very peevish while strapped to the
canvas for such a long time, and Dr. Carrel took stiff white
rubber tubing to whip and beat these dogs for not lying
' still and quiet. It was awful hard rubber tubing, white and
stiff; it is not like the soft black rubber tubing. It was
about seven—eighths of an inch in diameter besides being
very thick and heavy and stiff.

For a week or two after the “Herald ” made so much
talk about the Institute they had an experienced man to
look after the dogs at night to keep them still, and their
way of keeping them still was to whip them. '

“Tom ” Horton, the man who cleans the kennels and cooks
the food and who is the only one there who was kind to the
animals, suggested that the dogs should be allowed to take
some exercise to improve their circulation. Dr. Carrel
said this was a good idea, so Emil took the dogs for
exercise; but of course the dogs’ legs were so weak and in
such bad condition that they could not walk, and Emil
would handle them roughly and slam them down and hit
them with his ﬁst. I asked Emil why he was so cruel with
the dogs, and he said—“ Oh, its only a big bluff here, any-
way; he will never, never have a success anyway.”

* * *

The wounds looked terrible after operations. They would
mortify and smell terribly. The dogs swelled away up to
the abdomen, and they would moan and howl. No
anaesthetic was ever given after the ﬁrst operation.

Dr. Carrel, after the dogs are dead, takes them down to
his room and cuts them up.

Chest Operations Under Anasthesia.

Emil puts a medium sized dog under the anaesthetic.
Dr. Carrel takes a tube which has been pushed through a
hole in a block of wood and puts this tube down the trachea;
the block of wood catches across the jaws and holds the
mouth wide open; then the dog’s jaws are tied tight around
and down on the wood so it cannot slip. Dr. Carrel cuts
the dogs either like this [indicating semi-circle on chest] or
straight across. He does different things when the chest
is Open. Sometimes he puts his hand in and lifts up the
lungs and pushes and fusses around; sometimes he cuts
a very delicate artery with the scissors and ties it with
silk; then the artery breaks and blood spurts out and the
dogs die from haemorrhage; the blood spurts all over
everything, even the walls and everywhere and all over us.
Miss Lilly says :—“ He will never be able to do anything
with that; it is too delicate a place to cut.”

The dogs would sometimes die right on the table; blood
would spurt up, covering everything, and Dr. Carrel’s
glasses would become full of blood and I had to clean them.

Two or three days after a chest operation, if the dog
hadn’t died on the table, Dr._Carrel brings in the dog and

-""~"'...".u;;‘_:ﬁ. ‘“;‘::‘a2-.'.;;:N -ﬁ.f'1:‘§’$‘f§§-;s;ij_iygﬁr~§32.4".“isI «ﬂaw , , anal-w» .w.

 

 

takes off the dressing. Then he squeezes the wounds very
hard and presses on them; a sort of ﬂuid looking like
blood comes out; the dog always moans and howls and
tries to get away. No anaesthetic.

In some chest operations he makes the cut horizontally
across the chest down to the bone. Then, with the big
bone-cutting scissors or pliers, he would cut the ribs right
in two. After this he uses the retractor, which is a strong
steel instrument with claws, and fastens the claws into
each side of the wound where he had cut the ribs. By this
instrument he would draw open the wound, bones and all,
like this [indicating an opening ﬁve or six inches in width]
until he showed the dog’s heart and lungs. Miss Lilly
would adjust and tighten the screws of the retractor to hold
it in its position; then Dr. Carrel would put his whole hand
in and go to work in there. The dogs suffered
terribly and would moan and howl and cry. About an
hour or less after this operation the dog’s legs would
sometimes become stiff and rigid.

Monday, November 15th, 1909, a dog was being operated
upon, and I was told to put my head under the sheet and
stuff cotton down the dog’s throat. I had to untie the
fastenings around the dog’s mouth to put the cotton in so
that the dog should not get too much air. Emil wOrked a
bellows forcing some sort of air or gas into the dog, and
Dr. Carrel thought the dog was getting too much outside
air instead of out of the bellows. I did not put the cotton
into the dog’s throat, but put it just inside the dog’s
mouth, because I was afraid the dog would choke and die
if I forced so much cotton down into his throat. Dr.
Carrel insisted that I should put the cotton as far as I
could down the throat, and I did so. The dog afterwards
died, and Miss Lilly cut it up and took out everything
above the diaphragm. Sometimes if Emil was pumping too
bmcliCh air into the dog the lung would come right out of the

o y.

The ﬁrst time that Dr. Carrel used this bellows was at
Dr. Meltzer’s suggestion. Dr. Meltzer’s apparatus was
used, but our dog died. When Dr. Meltzer used his
apparatus there was no breathing, but only the beating
of the heart, and that was the only way you knew that the
animal was alive-by the beating of the heart. While
using the bellows Dr. Carrel exclaimed, “Oh, he is breath—
ing ! ” and Dr. Meltzer said, “That’s all right; just watch
the heart beat. That’s all that’s necessary.” Then Dr.
Carril said, “ Oh,lhe’s blue,” referring to the gums and the
inside of the lips. Dr. Meltzer said, “That’s all right;
that’s all right. That makes no difference.” And then
the dog died right off.

Miss Lilly would often say to Dr. Carrel :——“ What are
you going to do with this dog this morning? ” And Dr.
Carrel would say: “I don’t know. I’ll see after I get
started.”

Dr. Carrel did two dogs that morning, and almost always
did two or three dogs or cats of a morning on an operation
———that is, except the leg operation; that took from ten
o’clock until one o’clock.

Transplantation under Anasthesia.

Lincoln’s birthday, February 12th, 1909, two beautiful
large Newfoundland dogs, which must have been some-
body’s pets and very valuable, were brought in to have the
operation of transplantation of kidneys performed. The
ﬁrst dog was opened and the kidneys cut out. Miss Lilly
was left to take care of and tie up the arteries. She let an
artery slip and the dog bled to death. Emil was told to
give the anaesthetic to the second dog, but gave it too much
ether and it died. Dr. Carrel got in a terrible rage and
stormed about, 'gritting his teeth, etc. Miss Lilly said she
had to pacify him.

Another large dog which he thought had had a successful
operation was brought back from the farm in New Jersey,
but when the dog was opened it was so terribly decayed
inside that Dr. Carrel ordered it to be chloroformed
immediately. The minute Dr. Carrel made the incision he
ran away from the dog and said, “ Chloroform it imme-
diately.” The blood inside was black and the ﬂesh was
black and all rotten inside. Oh, the odour was terrible.

Dr. Carrel opens dogs and cuts pieces out of their

. , m3..’-’,7£,’:“'F*‘.’3:..’+f1‘5.':‘:.'*..‘.v-‘- .; 3 swam...” .;.- . . ,.
. a; . . - ' . .' .v 3.. .4.‘ -. ‘. -‘-,_- ,.. a .‘-..,' >~ ‘.'- ~ -:~,.., r : . ,_. . .1 H... ~ ‘
3"; {2* «1’74 “593.3,; .—:.wr‘-‘*ei.. rake, ,_ 5p: Laban”. -..3u....~~_-_..L~h3-ks-1€<» 1* ‘ . .-_, ~ — ~ ~

 

 

 

 




‘‘‘‘‘

 

 

 

_A

 

 

 

--——- w fr

intestines ; then he takes pure carbolic acid, into which he
dips some cotton, and places it against the ends of the
intestines which have been cut and tied; He used nothing
to neutralize the burning of the carbolic acid.

Skln Cases under very Light Anasthesia

Dr. Carrel uses a sharp tube, like one used to core apples
or potatoes. This tube is ﬁve inches long and very sharp.
Emil shaves the chest of a dog and brings it in and straps
it on the table. Dr. Carrel makes cuts on the chest and
dresses them with the different organs of the body minced
up ﬁne. Miss Lilly takes a knife and puts these mincings,
made either of the liver, spleen or thyroid gland of another
animal, upon the cuts. Parts of these organs are put in
cold storage to be used to dress wounds with when needed
by Dr. Carrel. Dr. Carrel makes three or four different
wounds at a time and dresses them with these different
mincings. These dressings would sometimes cause in-
fection, sores and scabs, and sometimes they would heal.
After three days Dr. Carrel would examine the wounds,
ripping them off with his ﬁngers without being sterilized.
He would pick off the scab and then jab right into the sore
with a little forceps. He would turn the forceps around
and around in the wound and fuss about it and pick at
it. The place would become raw and bleed, and the
animals would twist and turn and try to get away. It
caused the dog much pain. ,

Sometimes Dr. Carrel would inject something around
these wounds in the skin, which would cause them to swell
up immediately, and the dog would howl and cry and
twitch and try to bite, and Emil would hold its legs so tight
with his big, powerful hands that I thought he would break
them. It suffered awfully. No anmsthetics were given
during these dressings.

Emil held the dog’s front and hind legs and I held the
dog’s head. When the dog would move Dr. Carrel would
raise his hand high above his head and bring it down with
great force upon the animal, saying, “ Lie still, dog! ” or

“ Be quiet, dog!” Dr. Carrel hits dogs two or three times ;
he hits even leg operation dogs. I used to get, sometimes,
part of the blows intended for the dog’s head because I was
holding it, and they were strong enough to make my hand
very red.

Dr. Carrel would designate these operations to Miss Lilly
as “skin cases.” When dogs healed after “skin cases,”
they would be used for other operations—“chest” opera-
tions and “neck” operations.

Ear Grafting under Anaesthesia.

Dr. Carrel cuts out the ears of dogs. He has to cut a way
down into the neck in order to get out all the ear. He
grafts another ear on, going way down into the throat to ﬁx
it. These dogs are put back in their cages ; and one dog,
in his agony, had torn off his bandages and torn out the
grafted ear and all with his paw, and next morning when
found was bleeding terribly and died. About six dogs were
tried with grafted ears. Some dogs were found dead
the next morning, and some were chloroformed after suffer—
ing about a week. The dogs after ear-grafting are so sick;
they let their heads drop, you know. The dog’s eye would
become so swollen that it would close and the side of the
face and neck would become rotten. In ear operations
death was from shock, and not from haemorrhage. The
dogs swelled, became all sore and mortiﬁed ; after the
operation the wounds were greenish and all colours, and the
new ear turned purple and hard. Oh ! they suffered !

Operations on Cats uinder Anasthesia.

Dr. Carrel took cats—two or three eats a morning—and
made incisions in their thighs. Then he cut a nerve there
and the legs became paralyzed. Then somebody suggested
to him another style of operation on dogs, the one with the
bellows for the chest. So he forgot all about the cats.
Then one day Miss Lilly said: “ Oh, how about those cats?

 

 

(3)

How are they getting along, Dr. Carrel?” And he
answered : “ I don’t know; I haven’t looked at them.”

Emil asked Dr. Carrel to look at a cat which had torn its
stitches and opened its wound. Dr. Carrel told Emil to kill
the cat. Emil put it into a sort of box and poured ether
over it. The cat was left in the box with the ether for
about half-an-hour, and when it was taken out to be thrown
away it was not dead yet.

Young Dr. Janeway operated upon a dog and sent it away
to the Jersey farm, but when the dog was brought back he
was in an awful condition—wasted to a skeleton and
entirely blind, with some sort of a white matter grown over
his eyes like a cataract. It was nothing but bone and skin
—nothing else. You could count every rib in the poor
dog’s body. Tom said, “Come here if you want to see a
sad sight. Isn’t it awful? ” It was terrible.

Emil beats and kicks dogs. One dog growled at him, so
he took a pail of very hot water, scalding hot, as hot as it
could be drawn from the faucet—and it runs hot enough to
have a heavy steam come off it, so it was good and hot——
and threw it all over the dog. He told Miss Lilly about it,
and she asked him if he had scalded the dog, so he said
“ he didn’t know and didn’t care, and would do it again,
for he wouldhave no dogs growling at him.” He said he
had beaten the dog, too. Dr. Carrel knew Emil had beaten
the dog, because Emil told him so.

Sometimes when the dog would be ﬁrst given the ether
before the operation and when Emil was shaving and scrub-
bing the place to be cut, he would give the dog too much
ether, and this would make him so mad that he would bring '
his ﬁst down several times on the dog’s chest or on the
abdomen. He did that because he didn’t want to take the
time and trouble of unfastening the mask and reviving him.

In all operations the dogs had their front paws brought
all the way back and tied down until it seemed'as if they
would be dislocated. Their hind legs were also brought
down and tied, making it terribly painful for them, besides .
the pain of the operation.

Dogs after Operations are put in bags, which are tied up
and thrown into a cage till the dogs come out of the anms-
thetic. The dogs jumped around in the tied-up bags; and
so they hurt themselves while jumping about, hitting their
heads and the fresh made wounds against the bars, and, of
course, injuring the wounds just made in the operation.
Emil bounces the dogs tied up in the bags into the cage
with his knees, just like a bag of potatoes, and, of course.
they fall very hard on to the ﬂoor.

They would come out of the anaesthesia in about twenty
minutes, and would suffer terribly, and moan and howl and.
cry something awful; so much so we sometimes would have
to shut the doors or send for Tom to take them outside so
as not to disturb the second operation that morning.

On the lower ﬂoors could always be heard howling and
moaning of monkeys, dogs and cats: horses were also used
for experiments. As I would pass through the halls I
would hear cries and all sorts of sound from the different
rooms as if some animal were being tortured. From Dr.
Lewis’ room I would often hear something like this—such
a human sound.

Mr.- John D. Rockefeller,‘ jun., and his wife, with some
friends, came to see the Institute one day. We had been
told they were coming. Everything was cleaned up,
as it always is when they know visitors are coming, and we
were all dressed for the occasion. The orderly was all
dressed up in blue uniform and kid gloves running the
elevator. There is no regular elevator man, as any of the
men assistants run it.

Dr. Flexner showed the visitors around and explained
everything to them. He showed them into an ante-room
where there is a ﬁne big porcelain bath. Dr. Flexner tells

’ the visitors that every dog is bathed in this bath before

being experimented upon. This is not true. The bath is
never used, but dogs are brought to the operating table full
of ﬂeas, sores and parasites and all dirty and mangy. I was
afraid to touch them. One dog was just alive with
parasites—millions of them. He had been so eaten up
with them that he was thin and weak. That dog was used

 




 

for a kidney operation. Miss Lilly drew Dr. Carrel’s
attention to the parasites, but Dr. Carrel only laughed.
They were everywhere. Miss Lilly made a solution of
lysol, which she threw over the table and all over the ﬂoor
after the operation to destroy them. I had to put my hands
under the sheet toturn the dog’s head, and they crawled
all over my arm. The ﬂeas used to all go to the ends of
the dog’s hair when he began to get under the inﬂuence
of the ether. As I said, the dogs were all mangy With sores
and scabs, and when Emil shaved a dog for an operation,
he would just shave through the scabs and all. I hen the
ﬂesh would be all irritated and bleeding before the opera—
tion. . -

The cleaning woman throws the waste wateninto the
bathtub, but there has never been an animal put into that
bath; there has never been an animal bathed in that tub.
The animals get mange and the distemper for lack of
exercise.

There is a sort of battery attached to a cage next to the
bathtub, allowing hot air to come in, and it was intended
to dry the dogs after the bath. Dr. Flexner asks Visitors if
that is not a beautiful device, and wouldn’t it be nice for
drying air? He also tells them that dogs are bathed ﬁrst
and then set in that cage to dry, coming out of there look-
ing very ﬂuffy. But they never bother to do all that,
never, never.

Dr. Flexner tells ladies and visitors that the hot air would
be a ﬁne contrivance for drying their hair, and they whisper
among themselves and say: “Isn’t it grand? Isn’t it ﬁne?”
Dr. F lexner then takes the Visitors into the operating room,
which has been previously cleaned and set in order. The
day Mr. Rockefeller was there a dog was tied down on the
canvas in the hospital room, having a leg Operation. I was
sitting there holding the dog’s head. I was dressed in a
nurse’s white uniform, and I suppose I made a good
impression. Dr. Flexner said very sweetly to them that
“ this is the little nurse that watches the dog ; he is never
left alone, and has a nurse day and night.” - .

Dr. F lexner asked me how long that dog had been on the
canvas, and I told him nine days.

The dogs are left alone and not cared for at night and
very little attention is paid to them after they are stretched
on the canvas. Tom leaves the roof, where the animals
are, every evening at half-past ﬁve o’clock, and there is no
one left there to look after them. They did, after a time,
send for Miss Butler to watch the dogs at night. I guess
they were going to have something in the papers and
wanted to be able to show that the dogs were well cared for
like real patients; but they very soon, in about two weeks,
discharged her again, saying they had caught her asleep.

Dr. Carrel always locked the door before a long operation,
and he would never let anyone even come upstairs at any
time unless he knew the name, and if I didn’t get the name
straight Dr. Carrel would tell me to go back to the telephone
and have the name spelled, so he would know exactly who
it was. He would not even let a physician up unless he
knew who he was, what hospital he came from, and all
about him. Dr. Carrel would stop to think if the man or
physician who wanted to be admitted was right.

Dr. Carrel bought white canvas shoes like moccasins.
He just put them on once to try them, but as they were
too big and he kept losing them at every step he took, he
never used them again. Doctors Who were asked to put
them on said they would chance it and go in without them
on. Dr. Carrel told me to give the shoes to the doctors to
put on before coming into the room, and when I told him
that they didn’t want to he said I should insist, but he
laughed all the time.

They seemed to be afraid of the effect upon the public if
it found out they did not have a trained nurse, so they
engaged Miss Lilly. Dr. Carrel would tell Miss Lilly to be
sure and wear her cap when they expected visitors.

I couldn’t tell you how awful it was to see the dogs suffer
and what dreadful condition they would be in, all rotten
and black, green, and yellow. You would have to see it to
believe it. ‘

. Why, it is regular butchery there.
idea of what goes on in that place.

. You could form no
It is a pity you haven’t

4k WW»;

 

 

4‘ .; .1 ,.~- .'"f~"‘ gnu-.1.» . ..- 1-. I - .-. -. . . .
. . ,. .. “we. r:‘«x...v,..n..:. I 2....--,.;.,«.. “my, ._._, . . -.
' -. .- .1Q5auﬁ'agﬁ-{ﬁgkgﬂéLJLguL’h‘MLﬂ i...+.:,«..s-.. . iﬁ~;2_-.t.m_._.--.3.. ‘2».

somebody that has been all through the different rooms
where all the different kinds of things are done.

(Signed) MARY L. KENNEDY.
Sworn to before me this fourth day of December, 1909.

EDMOND M. WATKINS,
Notary Public.

(Certiﬁcate ﬁled in New York County).

Witnesses of signature of attestant—
DIANA BELAIS,
THOMAS A. QUINN.

 

 

SECOND AFFIDAVIT.

By SAMUEL FRANCIS DUTTON.

“I went to the Rockefeller Institute in November, 1907,
and left there in June, 1908. I couldn’t stand the sight of
the sufferings of the animals, and I left because I did not
want to work in the operating room. I took the place of .
different assistants to the different physicians at different
times.

Transplantation of Kidneys.

“ There was one large dog there, and Dr. Carrel was
performing transplantation of kidneys. I was giving the
ether, but it was such an awful operation that I fainted
right off. I loosened my hold on the forceps which were
regulating the ﬂow of the ether, and the dog got too much
and died.

* * *

“One ﬁne black dog was brought up for Vivisection.
He was very playful. The next day a couple of pigs
arrived, and Dr. Carrel removed the kidneys; he keeps the
kidneys a day or two before transplanting them in a sort
of air-tight jar, with some sort of powder or acid poured
in to make them keep. The black dog was prepared and
three persons had to hold him down to give him the ether.
Several doctors, including the wife of one of the doctors
came to see Dr. Carrel perform the operation.

“ Dr. Carrel said that the operation was a great success.

‘ The dog picked up ﬁnely and improved. About a week

after I noticed something wrong about the dog, and told
Dr. Carrel, but he said the dog was all right; so I did not
say any more, because he was the doctor and he knew.
The dog then died, and Dr. Carrel performed the autopsy,
and found the pig’s kidneys which had been put in the
dog all ulcerated.

“ They were very severe and very revolting, these kidney
transplantations; the intestines are lifted clear out of the
body.

“The dogs are very patient after the operation; they
never even let out a whimper. They look at you in such
a way—almost human. When the dogs are brought up to
the roof from the stable they will shiver and be in terror,
and refuse to eat for three or four days; afterwards they
become sort of used to their surroundings. The dogs are
not vicious after the operation. All the life and spirit is
taken out of them.

'n't'xmaz. ﬂsﬁa-wrr ’-~. .

 

 

 




 

 

“ It was pitiful to see them; they would put their heads
down between their paws. Dr. Carrel’s dogs were so weak
they couldn’t make any noise.

Transplantation of Ears.

“ Invariably a dog was used as the subject. Oh ! it was
a wicked operation. Oh! it was terrible. The entire scalp
and ear was taken off, and the other scalp and ear was put
on, and then the head was bandaged, so that only the eyes
and mouth showed. It was left like that from eight to
sixteen days, and then when he would Open it up there was
a whole nest of abscesses. Each one of the stitches had
an abscess around it. The animals didn’t eat or drink, or
if they did try they took scarcely anything. Not if I tried
to do it could I exaggerate the looks of that nest of
abscesses. It was a dreadful sight. One could never
forget that nest of abscesses.

.34. * 9(-

“One dog had abscesses in his throat, and the wire
ligatures were hurting very much, and Dr. Carrel was
pressing the dog’s throat very hard to push out the pus
and matter. The dog made a dash for Dr. Carrel, but it
was because the dog was all worked up from the pain.

Monkeys.

“ Dr. Carrel would invite several prominent doctors and
perform an operation for them on a monkey; then the
monkey was never seen again. We would not even see
the pieces of it after it was dead. There are a lot of
mysterious rooms there; these rooms are always locked,
but they are occupied. The doors could be made so that
the noise could not penetrate into the corridors. I very
seldom saw the remains of the monkeys after a large
operation; only saw the monkeys after a very‘ slight
operation, and never saw any monkeys while they were
under observation.

“ One particular monkey had died in convulsions. His
head was on the ﬂoor, both arms were stretched out and
clutching the bars, and he was standing on his hind legs ;
he looked as if he had died of fright. ,

“ There are usually from twelve to fourteen monkeys on
hand all the time. They are bought somewhere down town.

Leg Operations.

“ I came in one morning about half-past seven, the usual
time. I opened all the doors leading to the kennels, and
there was a dog that had been operated on the day before
for leg transplantation. He had bitten through his thongs
and stitches and was trying to walk on his three legs,
dangling the fourth leg, which had been sewed on, after
him. It was a horrible sight and the dog was in a terrible
condition. Without waiting to ask anybody I chloroformed
him immediately, and when I told Dr. Carrel he said I had
done right. Yes; that was a terrible thing !

‘ “ There were several operations performed on dogs that
would prevent them from barking. Then they just emitted
a gurgle that seemed to choke them. Also, I noted that
the animal when fed would take a bite or two, then turn
from its food. It was quite evident to me that the dog
suffered when trying to eat. _

“When I went there I found a dog with an incision in
his throat, and from that incision there .was matter
dropping continually! it would froth and run all the way
down his chest; it was white. The dog was kept during
the whole of my stay there for seven months, and when I
went away he was still there.

“There were operations on dogs’ backs; three incisions;
one large, second smaller, third still smaller. Dogs had
previously been operated on twice, for the stomach and
throat, and they died while apparently well. Important
autopsy, lasting hours, with certain organs preserved.

“ They take a dog and ﬁrst bare the artery entirely and

 

 

 

 

put it into a glass tube, which is connected with another
one; then they inject a saline solution into the main artery,
which has been exposed, and then after that they open the
abdomen and disembowel the animal and then continue
with the experiment. Then, when the doctor says ‘ Now,’
an electric battery is opened and the dog receives a strong
current of electricity. The dogs rise because of the
strength of the current and they press against the straps;
slowly the current is turned off and you can see the dog
slowly sink down again.

“One operation of Dr. Carrel’s was reversing of the

‘ artery. It was done on several dogs. The effect of it was

to make a very intense pulsation of the blood.

“Dr. Carrel kept different parts of organs preserved in
alcohol—he had a sort of museum in his room.

lnoculations in Small Animals.

“ Dr. Meltzer had two assistant doctors, who were very
well paid and lived somewhere in the neighbourhood of
the institute, and who also followed their own researches.
Dr. Orr was one of them.

“ These doctors would inject guinea pigs without giving
them any anaesthetic. Then the little things would have
awful convulsions, and shake and tremble and twitch; they
would be in convulsions and spasms all day long. The
guinea pigs and rabbits were inoculated in the morning
and left often for a whole day: sometimes for only one
hour, and sometimes for half an hour. The doctor has a
method of bringing on tetanus quickly, I think, by
inoculating the animals with active germs. Then it would
take almost instantly. The pigs and rabbits are sort of
vaccinated with this tetanus. Then the animals were
killed in the evening.

“ Drs. Naguchi and Flexner inoculate rats with bubonic
plague and Asiatic fever. The cancers of the rats would
be so large that they would drag on the ﬂoor. Every once
in a while they would inject the rats with cocaine, and then
they would cut the cancer clear out of the rat. The cancer
was cut as clean as a whistle, then the rats were sewn up
and they would die. A man was given the job to catch
wild rats along the water front.

Vivisector Demands Pet for
Experiment.

“ Dr. Opie injects turpentine into the stomach of dogs to
produce a sore; then after 8 to 16 days, when he thinks it
is ripe, he sticks in a long thin needle which has a tube
and bulb attached, and pumps out a bloody substance. The
dog is under light anaesthesia. After this operation with
turpentine the dogs would howl terribly when coming out
of the ether, much worse than after other operations. Dr.
Opie’s dogs are terribly emaciated.

“ Dr. Opie wanted a dog that I had trained so he could
have it for vivisection, but I chloroformed it. That dog
was a fox-terrier, and he and I became instantly attached.
He would run around and wag his tail, and he was always
in my way; if I was not looking I would almost fall over
him. I allowed him to run in the corridors, and he was a
very happy little dog.

“ I taught him some tricks. He would sit up and beg,
and run for things. Everybody liked him. Dr. Opie did
not care for dogs except to operate on them. One morning
Dr. Opie looked over all the dogs and said, ‘ Frank, I want
that dog,’ meaning mine. I asked him if he. could not
choose another dog, but he insisted on having mine. Then
next morning at operating time Dr. Opie found that the
dog had died mysteriously during the night. If he had
gone down into the refrigerator and looked around among
the carcases he would have found my little dog, and had
he performed an autopsy he would have found traces of
chloroform, because I had chloroformed the dog to save
him from suffering. '

“Dr. Opie wanted to take for operation a female dog
that was there with little puppies, but I managed to

" rut-u . A... ‘7 m IT—WWM

 




 

smuggle them away. It was very hard to manage, but I

succeeded.

* * *

“ They would send different employees to Sloane
Maternity Hospital, and sometimes to Bellevue, to the
Metropolitan or City Hospital, and sometimes to the
Island, for babies. The babies were dissected; they take
out some small organ. Nobody was ever permitted to see
this dissection; the babies were disembowelled. Either
Dr. Flexner or Dr. Jobling did it. The operation was on
the organs below the diaphragm; the incision was about
ﬁve inches in length, and just revealed the tip of the
heart.
intestines had been taken out and put back again. After
the dissection the babies are wrapped up in a paper, tied
with a string, and given to the man to throw into the
furnace like a bundle of paper.

“The babies were from six to nine months or a year,
and there was one of two years; there were two and three,
and sometimes as many as four, babies on the ﬂoor at one
time waiting to be picked up and taken downstairs and
burned. The babies were born alive, I should judge.

“They have lambs there; I think they are for Dr.
Flexner; he experimented on lambs a few years ago, and
it looks as if he is going to resume it.

“The Japanese doctor, Dr. Naguchi, has a little
Japanese goat. A very peculiar thing breaks out on the
neck of this goat, about the size of a half-dollar; after it
breaks out, a scab forms and then the scab falls off, leaving
a scar like a vaccination. While the sore is running Dr.
Naguchi bleeds the goat and then takes the bleeding
matter away with him.

“ Dr. Naguchi does snakes. His attendant takes a long
pole with a strap attached, which is put into the cage. He
gets the snake to put his head into the loop which is made
of the strap, and then he is caught. Dr. Naguchi then
presses under the fangs, and enough venom comes out to
cover the bottom of a small spoon; the colour is a very
brilliant yellow. Dr. Naguchi also has pigeons, birds, and
one or two monkeys.

“One dog, a bull terrier, was kept in Dr. Levine’s room,
for about six weeks. One day Dr. Levine asked me if I
had any milk. I said I had, and Dr. Levine said I should
bring it down to that dog. I had my ﬁrst glimpse of it.
The dog was all skin and bones; he was starved to death
for some sort of experiment. Then the dog was given to
me to be destroyed. The dog couldn’t stand; he fell from
side to side. When he would try to get up he would fall
down; his head would strike the floor when he tried to
stand up. '

“Some large St. Bernard dogs were sent over to the
Jersey farm, and it was intended to make over there the
experiment of transplantation of paws. Some very queer
things are going on over there.

“I lifted the lid to make a deposit of a dead animal, and
I there discovered a dog with life still in it, feebly moving
around. I destroyed it myself, after reporting. This was
not the ﬁrst time. I once before found a rabbit in the
same awful condition.

“ I used to feel so sorry for the dogs which were brought
there to be vivisected that I made up my mind I would try
to save as many as possible; so I used to read the columns
where the lost dogs were advertised, and then I wrote to
the owners a note saying that I had seen a dog answering
their dog’s description being led by boys in the direction
of Rockefeller Institute. I saved many a dog in that way.
The boys used to be paid twenty-ﬁve and ﬁfty cents for
each animal, and would bring sometimes four or ﬁve a day.

“I had very bad dreams and could not rest at night.
Oh! God, I used to have the most terrible dreams: it was
awful! I used to scream at the top of myvvoice. I used to
dream that a million dogs were pursuing me; and one
night, just as I thought they were springing on me, I fell
out of bed.

The condition of the babies indicated that the,

 

 

 

 

(6)

“One horse was put in the stocks. It was a young
black horse. His skin was nice and shiny, with a long tail,
full blooded, and he looked as if he must have been well
bred; he was like an Arabian. After inoculation it takes
about nine months for it to take full effect. This horse
was to have its ﬁrst bleeding. The incision was made and.
the horse jumped clear out of the stocks; the bar came
down on me and I fell and threw over all the tubes and
receptacles, breaking them. It was a loss of about 100
dollars. Dr. Jobling was on the wrong side of the horse,
and received a kick and was bowled over. Then they had
to let the bleeding go for that day. Tom Horton said that
this horse died some time during the summer. He said it
was a shame how they bled that horse while it was dying.
The horses would become so weak after the bleeding that
they would not have the necessary strength in their legs to
stand up, and a few hours after bleeding they would be so
weak they would sink down on their haunches. They are
bled about once a month. A horse lasts about four years.
The amount of blood taken from a horse equals in weight
that of the horse itself. There are four horses there
now.

“ If Dr. Jobling or Dr. Flexner came near the horses they
would prick up their ears and move back and forth and
seem afraid of them. They used the twitch, which is a
cruel thing they use on the upper lip to keep them still.
Horses would rather stand the bleeding patiently than have
the twitch.

“Horses suffered a great deal after the inoculations.
First, the horse was inoculated; two weeks after inocula-
tion he was bled; about two weeks after bleeding he was
again inoculated; then it would swell on the shoulder
where he had been inoculated, and a lump would form and
the swelling would subside; afterwards the lump would
burst and then there would be an open ulcer, with the pus
running down in a steady stream all the time for about a
week. That occurs with every horse that they inoculate
for serum.

“ The horses were in such pain that they would stand for
hours without moving, and when they did move they would
utter sounds I cannot describe; I can hear them yet; I
can never forget them; they were indescribable.

“ I wondered how Mr. Norris could get his information.
When there was nothing to do I played with the dogs;
although I was outside Mr. Norris always knew that I had
been playing with the dogs.

“When I asked the assistants any questions, Mr. Norris
told me not to get too inquisitive for my own good; not to
ask too many questions. \Ve were told that no informa—
tion was to be given; that we should say we did not know
anything.

“No friends of the employees were allowed to go into
the Institute to see them, and the employees were cautioned
constantly against telling things.”

Witness my hand and seal.

SAMUEL FRANCIS DUTTON,
(Seal).

Witnesses to above signature,
DIANA BELAIS,
I SUE M. FARRELL.

Sworn to before me,
JOHN H. JONES.
Notary Public in and for VVestchester County.
Certiﬁcate ﬁled in New York.

 

- »' 7 7‘; ‘31-,“ "mgr, :‘¢:.- 2». '-~ - a, 5x; .- ‘1..21 “any; ":5 1' ’. - - , rtIL' I . ‘ :7, ' a, . .
. . r . .; v _ ,, ,. ~ , .1 . .. M r .. 6.. A.“ I, ; e.- 1 an. _» ...».- -. .- «1:; "‘4 g. r :_, xv: -
- 7.9-. 14‘4“.» {ﬂy «5-1.3543, ,2: what: .x..i“§uJ-:.”J... . 1», ,_L53.th‘...ra.t’-_.LZ»4¥‘O A.“ Murmur. ‘ _.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

THIRD AFFIDAVIT.

——____————-—

By MATTHEW SMITH

(Employed in the Institution for over
two years).

Mr. Smith’s deposition said :—
“ Result of operation for yellow jaundice.

“The. dog was operated upon, and after the operation,

the dog was sewn up and put in the portable animal house
on the roof. I saw him the ﬁrst and second day after the
operation, and the dog was lying there on the ﬂoor of this
portable animal house and had not been moved in the
meantime, as far as I know. The condition was that all
the dog’s entrails were entirely outside of his body and
lying on the cold ﬂoor. The dog was alive; his bladder
was swollen and no more care had been taken of him.
. . I asked the man who takes care of the animals
why he did not kill the dog and put him out of his

misery, and he said that the doctor had not ﬁnished with
the dog.

“ I understood from the different attendants that dogs had
to be anaesthetised because they were powerful and could
move and spoil the operation, but the small weak animals
——guinea pigs, rats, rabbits, mice—were not anaesthetised.
I have seen rabbits which were not anaesthetised. I also
understand that cats were not always anaesthetised.

“ They operated upon guinea pigs, rabbits, rats, and
mice after they had been inoculated in order to see results.
Guinea pigs were generally left to die from the inoculations
in order to see how long it took them to die. »

“ Rabbits were often cut up and left cut open all day
(ten am. to three pm.) I never saw them receive any
anmsthetic. They were injected with something instead of
having ether given them, and they were kept alive while
under Operation by artiﬁcial respiration (ten am. to three

_ pm.) The animals (rabbits) I saw had been opened up
from the ribs down.

“ Dr. Meltzer performs experiments generally on rabbits.
I saw the legs of dogs after operations at different stages.
They most all were smelling very bad, and were mortiﬁed.
When the plaster cuts were opened up they all smelled
very bad. The grafted legs of the dogs would fall off, they
were so putrid and rotten.

“They keep several or sometimes a dozen dogs in one
kennel. Some were operated on or inoculated, and some
hadn’t been operated on yet. Sometimes they would ﬁght
all night and get into a cruel condition. One big New-
foundland dog was found dead, torn to pieces by a bull
terrier. One dog’s bowels were torn out; three dogs had
fought him to death. The tuberculous dogs were too weak
to ﬁght.

“Dr. Opie’s dogs were tuberculous ; very thin, just like
, living skeletons; they were the skinniest dogs I ever saw.

“ Sometimes dogs would scratch their bandages off.

“ The dogs were not watched at night, but there was so
much in the papers about the Institute that they sent for
Miss Butler to watch them. They didn’t keep her very
long, though; about two weeks. The dogs should be
better cared for; they were handled very roughly after
operations. I have seen Emil throw them into cages just
like this [throws both arms out violently].

“ Dr. Carrel keeps his dogs in separate kennels. He will
not let anyone in his room while he is operating. I hear

 

 

 

 

 

(7)

they are building separate kennels now for the dogs, but I
understand they are so small that nothing over a middle-
51zed dog could turn around.

“Neither will Dr. Meltzer allow anybody in his room
when he is operating. The transom over Dr. Meltzer’s
room was all whitewashed, so that you cannot look in when
passing up the stairs.

“Dr. Flexner works on monkeys.
used nearly ﬁfty.

“ It is very pathetic to watch the monkeys. One monkey
will nurse and sympathise with the other monkey, who is
sick. It will cover the sick monkey up with a blanket and
keep it covered and warm, and put its arms around the
sick monkey. A monkey will also grieve when its mate
dies. It will call for hours after its mate dies, cooing for
it. I have seen many monkeys die in convulsions, just
like a little baby might; but after the monkeys die they
must not be disturbed before the doctor comes to see the
amount of suffering there has been in the convulsion, from
the twistings and contortions.

“ Sick monkeys generally huddle up in a corner of the
cage or stretch themselves on their stomachs on the floor
of their cages when in pain or when suffering and sick.
They untie one another’s bandages. [The attendants told
me that monkeys are used for other operations if they live
through an operation or inoculation, and that the animals,
if it’s possible, are put through more than one operation].
The same operations are performed over and over again.
Monkeys are left to die.

“The dead animals were brought downstairs in cans, and
when the dogs were too large for the can they would be cut
in two. They used these cans to throw the dogs into if
they died on the operating table. Dr. Carrel had his dead
dogs brought down to his room; he would cut them up.
All the dead dogs which were brought down in the cans
were put in the refrigerating room downstairs until the
Board of , Health wagon came to take them away.

“ The blood runs out of the Board of Health wagon that
take dead dogs away—it runs all along the roads-and I had
to go out and cover it with the dust from the road so people
couldn’t see it. The sun bakes it, breeding disease germs.
The blood runs out of the cans all along the road, and is a
danger to children playing, and horses are apt to get foot
diseases from it. If dogs died at the farm in New Jersey
they were sent back to Rockefeller Institute, so that the
doctors should ﬁnd out what the dogs died of. The dogs
which were brought back dead from the New Jersey farm
smelt terribly, especially during the summer. They were
brought back in dirty boxes, which were used again for
sending live dogs to the farm.

“These boxes were packed in the same train as fruits
and vegetables and provisions, and travelled all the way
from New Jersey. The dead dogs came in the same express
wagons as fruit and vegetables. I have received them
myself from the express wagon at the basement door of the
Institute, packed right in with the fruit and vegetables.
These boxes were not marked ‘Dead dogs,’ nor in any
other way except the address.

“ They inoculate the horses by injecting matter into the
vein of the horse’s neck; the neck swells up in a day or
two; after quite a little while the blood is taken from the
neck again by a tube put into the vein of the neck, about
six quarts at a time. The horses are afraid of the doctors;
they know them by their white coats ; they tremble when
they come in sight. The horses are put into a stock. This
has four stanchions, or posts, from the ﬂoor to the ceiling,
and to it are attached four bars, two for the sides, very
close to the horse, and one in front of his chest, and one at
back of him. Then his head is tied from each side of the
mouth by straps so that he cannot pull either way, and his
fore feet are tied down by ropes to the stanchions, and the
worst of all is that they put his upper lip in a noose called
a twitch, so that the more the horse pulls the more he hurts
himself. In their fear and terror of the inoculations and
bleedings they get frantic and break their straps, and they
will also sometimes in their frenzy get their front feet over
the bars.

I should think he

. ”REV”: -'~..'v . . .. ,3».le “:53, (7:, .. W" _ :5" . r.-‘=
, .,,‘_ . ..-" ""~’

 




      

  

   

 

“ One black horse that they had had for some time, when
he saw the doctor coming and knew he had to be bled,
broke the ropes around his front legs, put his breast against
the bars, and broke the stanchionsdown, with bars and all.
The serum is taken from the horse every month or less;
one horse lived for two and one-half years. The bleeding
leaves the horse very weak. One horse was there that they
knew was going to die; he had been lying around sick and
was likely to die any minute, so they took what blood they
could get from him; they got about three or four quarts,
and that left him so weak that he was hanging from the
straps and the perspiration was running down as if water
had been thrown on him. This serum taken from the
horse goes through a certain process, and then it is used to
be injected into people as an antitoxin.

“Sheep and goats and poultry and pigeons, pigs, snakes,
and pretty nearly all kinds of animals are used for some-
thing.

“ Rockefeller Institute has just got in a big stock of
monkeys. I understand that since I left they inoculated a
horse, and it is going to be used for the experiment of
infantile paralysis. The horse had to be inoculated in the
brain, and to do this they had to drill a hole in the skull.
They did not give it an anmsthetic. Mr. Sloman said this
was ‘the most cruel thing he had ever seen—to take and
drill a hole in that horse’s head; that it was too much to
make an animal suffer like that! ’ And whenI asked him
if he was sure that nothing had been given to make the
horse unconscious, he said ‘ No ; not a damn thing! ’

b "The experiments on the monkeys are also to be on the
rain.

 

 

 

 

“If a lady is seen around the building they telephone
down to the animal house, and somebody immediately
comes out to ask her what she wants. The ofﬁce overlooks
the entrance to the Institute.

“ They never allow anybody to go in in order to look for
his lost dog, but they take a description of it, and if they
have it they bring it out. Some ladies came to see the
building, but were not admitted. One lady came several
times, but of course could not get further than the superin-
tendent’s ofﬁce. They are especially afraid of any ladies
coming round, and the employees received strict orders
over and over not to give any information to anybody.

“ I used to be kept awake at night by the howlings and
moanmgs and screamings of the animals; I could hear
them down in the basement from the third and fourth
floors.”

MATTHEW SMITH.
Sworn to by me, this December 3rd, 1909.

THEO. NEILSON.

Witnesses :

MARY L. KENNEDY.
DIANA BELAIS.

 

Any number of copies of these Afﬁdavits can be
obtained free of cost from the SECRETARY,

BRITISH UNION for ABOLITION 0f VIVISECTION

32 CHARING CROSS, LONDON. S.W.

 

Printed by F. J. BROOKE, 2 Westgate Street, Gloucester. 23148

Published by THE BRITISH UNION FOR THE ABOLITION OF VIVISECTION.
President and Hon. Sec.: Dr. WALTER R. HADWEN, J.P.

(8)

5-!

   

 
    

. am 7W“ m 7... T FEW ' - JJMW ~

 

    
 

 

    
       
       
     
       
   
     
         
       
   
      

 
   
     
   
  
   

 

 

‘5‘ 1.3V“; _ < .7,
-. 'V‘ ,- ’

   

 

 

    
    
     
   
  
     




A

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

THE VIVISECTION ACT.

ITS PALPABLE‘ CONTRADICTIONS.

I87 6.

 

The terms of the License granted to a Vivisector are nulliﬁed by the granting
of Certiﬁcates. '

Look on this’ side—+— .

l. The animal must’be anaesthetised.

Section 3, Snb-section 3.

2. The animal must, beikilled before recOvery
from the anaesthetic.

Section 3, Sub-section 4.

3. The experiment is not to be performed 1n

' illustration of lectures.

Section 3, Sub— section 5.

4. N 0 experiment calculated to give pain

'" IS to be performed on a dog or cat without

anaesthetics. ‘ a , ‘

Section 5.
5. No experiment is to be performed on a
horse, aSs, or mule.
Section 5.
6. On any breach of the provisions of the Act,

. no prosecution can be obtained unless (I) the

consent of the Home Secretary, in writing, is
obtained, (2) the prosecution 1s instituted within
six months of the offence.

 

And on this.

1. Certiﬁcate A can be obtained to dispense '
with the use of anaesthetics. ‘

Section 3; Proviso 2. ,

2. Certiﬁcate B can be obtained allowing the
vivisector to keep the animal alive after its
recovery from the anaesthetic.

Section 3, Proviso 3.
3. Certiﬁcate C can be obtained allowing vivi-
section (under anaesthetics)inillustration of lectures.

Section 3, Proviso 4.

4 Certiﬁcates E and A allow operations on
dogs or cats without anaesthetics, and Certificates

VB and EE allow dogs and cats to recover after

serious mutilation, When the effect of the anaeSthetic
has passed off.

Section '5.

5. Certiﬁcate E allows experiments to be made
on horses, asses, and mules.

Section 5.
6. JThese conditions are an efﬁcient . bar to
prosecution, because (1) the consent of the Home
Secretary is exceedingly difﬁcult to obtain; (2)
the offence is seldom known until after the six
months’ limit is past, as vivisectors seldom publish
their records within that period.

 

 

 

 

 

We ask all who are prepared to help either by money or service to

Labelish this anomalous and disgraceful Act which has been framed
for the protection of the Vivisector, to communicate with

WALTER R. HADWEN, M.D.. J.P..'

PRESIDENT, BRITISH UNION FOR THE ABOLITION OF VIVISECTION
(THE BRITISH ANTI-VIVISEGTION SOCIETY),

'32. Charing Cross. — London. SW.

 

 

 




 

 

The British Union for the Abolition of Vivisection

(The British Anti= Vivisection Society). .
Headquarters '- 32 GHARING cRoss, WHITEHALL,-L0NooN, s.w.

 

Foundress: FRANCES POWER COBBE.

 

President 6: Hon. Secretary:
WALTER R. HADWEN, Esq., M..,D L.RC..P, M...RCS., L.S.,A. JP.

 

 

The British Union is the largest Societyof its kind in the United. Kingdom.
It. has upwards of Sixty Provincial Branches. .
All hum’anitarians should be in touch with it. Write to the Secretary, 32 Charing Cross,
LondOn, S. W., for its last Annual Report, and judge of the great Work it accomplishes.

Specimens of Literature sent free.

Life Membership, £5. Membership Fee, 10/- a year and upwards.
Associates, 2/6.

Remzttauces made payable to the General Secretar , the Brtttsh Union for Abolitton (if Vt'vt'sectton,
aud crossed Lloyd’s Bank, Limtted St. James Street.

 

 

 

THE HBGLITIENIST

Monthly Organ of the British Union (price 2/6 per annum, post free). 4

’ CONTAINING ' .

High- class Articles on the Moral Scientiﬁc, and Historical Aspects of the Anti- Vivisection Question;
Replies to the Research. Defence Society , Racy Criticism of new Vivisectional “ Cures”
Chronicle of the Month s Work, etc. ‘ , . ~

Should be read by all who wish to understand the Vivisection

controversy. . Sampleficopy sent free.

 

 

 

FORM OF BEQUEST.

 

To those who may be inclined to become Benefactors by Will to this Society, the following
form is respectfully suggested: ——

I bequeath unto the Society called THE BRITISH UNION FOR THE ABOLITION or VIVISECTION.
which has, or had its oﬂlces at 32 Charmg Cross, London, the sum of. ......... ..... .............
free of Legacy Duty, and I direct that the same shall be patd to tts Treasurer for the tune bemg.

 

_- By. Vir‘tue of the Act of Victoria, cap. '26, all Wills and Codicils must be"; in writing, signed
by the Testator, and attestedby two witnesses in the presence of the Testator and of eachother.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




