ULAWS Monographs and Reports No. 4E.

INSTRUCTIONS FOR
DEALING WITH RABBITS

compiled by
Capt. c. w. HUME

with a foreword by

Prof. SIR FREDERICK HOBDAY
President of ULAWS

Second edition (revised) I937

Published by

U L A W S
(The University of London Animal Welfare Society)
42. Torrlngton Square, London, W.C.I

 

 

 




 

ULAWS MONOGRAPHS ON THE CONTROL OF
RABBITS AND RATS.

4A.-=—THE RABBIT PROBLEM IN AGRICULTURE (revised to September
16, 1934; gratis) by Capt. W. H. Buckley, MWFH

4B.———MAN VERSUS RABBIT (ﬁrst edition May, 1932; second edition,
November 5, 1934, revised to February 5th, 1935: IS.) by
A. H. B. Kirkman, F.R.C.S.E., L.R.C.P., Lond., F.Z.S.

4c.—-—REPORT ON A SOLUTION OF THE RABBIT PROBLEM: CYANIDE FUMI—
GATION (April, 1935: gratis) by Capt. W. H. Buckley, M.F..H

4D.-—-THE RABBIT MENACE IN AUSTRALIA IN 1933 AND THE WAY OUT
(Sydney, 1932, reprinted by ULAWS August, 1935; gratis)
by David G. Stead, formerly Special Rabbit-Menace Commis-
sioner to the Government of New South Wales.

4E.~——INSTRUCTIONS FOR DEALING WITH RABBITS (Second edition,
September 1937, gratis) compiled by Capt. C. W. Hume, M.C.,
B.Sc., F.Z.S., with a foreword by Sir Frederick T. G. Hobday,
C.M.G., F.R.C.V.S., F.R.S.E., Dr. Med. Vet. (Zurich).

4E.——SOME FACTS AND QUERIES RELATING TO THE RABBIT PROBLEM IN
BRITAIN (1937, gratis). A paper read at the Nottingham
meeting of the British Association for the Advat cement of Science,
by the Hon. Secretary of U.L.A.W.S.

[B.—-RAT-CONTROL (October, 1936; gratis) by J. D. Hamer, F .I.C.,
Consultant Chemist to the Orient line.

A full list of publications will be sent on application.

 




 

 

 

FOREWORD .

According to Jorrocks “A cockney looks upon a farmer as a
sort of domestic conwict, condemned to wander in ’eavy ’ ob—nailed
shoes amid eternal hacres o’ dirt and dandylions In spite of. the
place of its birth, however, ULAWS has kept in close touch with
the men who have to wrest a living from the dirt while defending
their acres from the dandelions and other unwelcome intruders.

The present pamphlet is devoted, not to propaganda, but to
practical information about certain methods of rabbit—repression
which, though already well understood in some localities, deserve
to be as universally known as the arts of ferreting and snaring
already are. In commending it to the harassed farmer, I would
endorse the compiler’s often—repeated plea for combined action to
be taken at the same time by all the farmers of a district. This
needs leadership and organization, which can appropriately be
provided by prominent land—owners, branches of the National
Farmers’ Union, and County Agricultural Committees.

FREDERICK T. G. HOBDAY,

 




 

 




 

INSTRUCTIONS FOR DEALING
WITH RABBITS.

 

Compiled by Capt. C. W. HUME.

 

§I. INTRODUCTION .

For keeping down rabbits the most effective and most humane
method is fumigation with hydrocyanic acid gas, §2, but carbon
monoxide, §3, may be used for relatively small warrens. The
latter is not , however, so universally successful as the former.
For catching rabbits for sale the long net, §4, the dazzle light, §5,
and the enclosure with valve traps , §6 , are recommended. Certain
other methods mentioned in §6 may be used for either purpose.

The arts of ferreting and snaring have not been described in
this monograph because, apart from humane considerations, they
are already well known in all parts of the country.

The gin trap , which is normally used for commercial exploitation
of rabbits, is inefﬁcient for keeping them down because (i) it
catches only a fraction of the rabbits on a farm and scatters the
rest; (ii) when rabbits have been thinned out , trapping is a very
laborious and therefore costly way of dealing with the remainder;
(iii) trapping disturbs the balance of nature by killing off the
natural enemies of the rabbit; (iv) trapping for proﬁt discourages
the destruction of rabbits by more efﬁcient methods; and (v) there
is some reason to believe that trapping , at all events as it is usually
practised, kills more bucks than does , though this has not been

roved.

Although for rats and other ground vermin , as distinct from
rabbits, amply efﬁcient humane traps are available , ULAWS does
not recommend any instrument as being a humane ‘ ‘substitute

3

 




 

for the rabbit trap’ ’———i .e., as being usable in the same way, under
the same conditions, and with the same effects as the rabbit gin.
The rabbit-trapping industry is parasitic upon genuine agriculture
and is associated with the undue increase of rabbits; the use of any
humane equivalent for the trap would have equally undesirable
economic effects. The methods described in this monograph are
incomparably more effective for keeping down rabbits, while
those described in §§4, 5 and 6 enable them to be caught for food
with sufﬁcient ease.

It should be mentioned, however, that important humane
societies take a different view on the subject of humane rabbit
traps. The Scottish S .P .C .A. have obtained very promising results
with the Duncan trap, which kills outright, and the R.S.P.C.A.
recommend the Phelps and certain. other traps.

Reinfestation: need for concerted action. When land has been
cleared of rabbits by any method, more rabbits will come in after a
few days from neighbouring property if the latter is infested, and
very large numbers will arrive if a neighbour starts trapping.
For this reason it is important that large areas should be cleared at
one time, and arrangements should be made for neighbours to take
action simultaneously. Pending legislation to give effect to the
recommendations of the Mersey report, a neighbour cannot be
compelled by law to keep down his rabbits; but by means of an
appeal to public spirit, concerted action can be organized by
prominent land-owners, by local or county authorities, or by
branches of the National Farmers’ Union. Reinfestation can be
prevented by the protective measures described in §7, but these
are costly. The onus of fencing ought properly to be placed on
those who wish to keep wild rabbits rather than on those who wish
to keep them out.

Need for systematic eﬂort; destruction of harbour; predators.
Whatever the means adopted, work must be continuous both in time
and in space. When once begun it must be carried through without
interruption; it must also be carried out on a face, or line which
moves across the area like a creeping barrage. Hollow fallen trees ,
which afford harbour for rabbits, must be destroyed. Old burrows
should preferably be ploughed in; otherwise they must be watched
and, if reopened, must be refumigated. A watch must be kept for
breeding-holes, from which in due course the young rabbits can be
removed for humane destruction. A sufficient population of
dogs, foxes, stoats, weasels, owls and hawks helps to keep rabbits
in check.

§2. CYANIDE FUMIGATION.

ULAWS is not at present recommending any fumigant other
than the cyanide fumigants.

Full instructions for fumigation are published by the ﬁrms
which supply the materials. The method consists in pumping

4

 

 




certain dusts into the burrows with a powerful pump. By reaction
with the moisture in the burrow, the dust gives off hydrocyanic acid
gas, HCN . This continues to be given off for some time, so that
in porous soil the gas lost by diffusion is constantly replaced.

Cyanide fumigation is extremely humane. The effects of HCN
do not in any way resemble those of the irritant poison gases used
in war. Human beings who have been accidentally gassed with
HCN during the fumigation of ships and buildings all agree that no
pain is felt. Although in weak concentrations some time may
elapse before the effects of the gas begin to be felt, rabbits gassed
under observation are found to die in a very short time after
symptoms have once made their appearance. If any distress is
felt it is of very brief duration, even when the concentration of the
gas is very weak, and with a strong concentration death is practi-
cally instantaneous. If an animal regains its liberty after a non-
lethal dose it recovers quickly and completely from the effects of
the gas. The humaneness of the method has been independently
investigated on behalf of ULAWS, the R .S .P .C .A. and the Scottish
S.P.C.A., with concordant results.

It occasionally happens that rabbits in a pocket or dead end
will be protected from the gas by the body of a large rabbit killed
nearer the entrance. In these comparatively rare instances the
protected animals scratch out in due course either into the main
burrow, where they are killed at once, or into the open air. An
exception occurs in the case of very young rabbits, and for this
reason complete humaneness cannot be secured unless operations
are restricted to the season when rabbits are not breeding.

The carcases of rabbits killed with H CN are not poisonous.
They have been eaten in this country by human beings and dogs
Without ill effect. In South Africa fowls roosting in the citrus
trees are frequently killed during fumigation of the trees with
HCN ; they are freely eaten by natives without ill effects. Fumiga— ‘ -
# tion is not, however, an appropriate method for obtaining rabbits 7’

for sale.

 

Safety. Although HCN is a highly poisonous gas, fumigation l
can be carried out in the open air without danger if the operator
follows instructions carefully. The manufacturers’ instructions ; ;
should be carefully observed in all cases. Gas masks are quite l
unnecessary for outdoor work, but can be obtained if desired from ‘
Messrs. Wallach Bros, Ltd., 49 Tabernacle St., London, E.C.2.

Failures. Cyanide fumigation should be successful in all
rabbit burrows, and failures must be attributed either to mistakes
on the part of the user or to reinfestation. It should be carried out
when the soil is reasonably moist, in a systematic manner, over a
sufﬁciently large ,area, and when rabbits have been driven under-
ground. When loss of gas occurs through crevices or inaccessible
holes, a dust giving rapid evolution of gas should be used.

5 .'

 

 

 

 




 

Cost offamz'gatz'on. The chief factor in the cost is the bill for
labour, which depends on the nature of the ground; but since the
rabbits are killed in bulk, far less labour is required than in trapping
them one by one. When fumigation is done by the men regularly
employed on a farm, it can be put in hand when work is slack
provided that when once begun the job be carried through without
any interruption. When fumigation is undertaken by outside
contractors the cost will necessarily be greater, but the services
will be more expert and efﬁciency and success will be guaranteed;
The charges will depend on local conditions.

Cyanide dusts and briquettes.

Cymag is sold by Imperial Chemical Industries, Ltd., Mill-
bank, S .W.I, and Scottish Agricultural Industries, Ltd. , 35
Charlotte St. , Leith, and costs, according to the quantity bought,
from 15. per lb. in I-cwt. cases each containing sixteen 7-1b. tins,
up to zs. per lb. in a single 7-lb. tin. From 28 lb. to I cwt. will
usually clear a farm of 200 acres.

Cyanogas is sold by Geo. Monro, Ltd. , Waltham Cross, Herts. ,
and 108, West Bow, Grassmarket, Edinburgh. It costs from
Is. 9%d. per lb. upwards.

Calcid is sold by the London Fumigation Co., Ltd., Marlow
House, Lloyd’s Avenue, E.C.3. It consists of briquettes which
cost £1 15. 0d. for a z-kg. tin of 100. A warren of 39 holes occupy-
ing 500 sq. yards took 7%— briquettes , and a hedge-row I30 yds. long
riddled with holes took 28 briquettes.

Pumps .

ThefAustralian foot pump, sold for use with Cyanogas by Geo.
Monro, Ltd., Waltham Cross, Herts. Price £2 155.

The Early Bird Rotary Blower has been found very satisfactory '
for use with Cymag. It is sold by W. J. Craven & Co. , Ltd. ,
50 Port St.,Evesham. Price £4.

Calcid pump and grinder, sold for use with Calcid briquettes by
The London Fumigation Co. Ltd. , Marlow House, Lloyd’s
Avenue, London, E.C.3. Price £10 105.

The‘Vermorel Rotary Fan Dust Gun sold by Cooper, Pegler & Co. ,
Ltd., 24 and 26 Christopher St., Finsbury Sq., London,
E.C.2. Price £3 195. 6d.

Comparison of dzﬁerent materials .

No quantitative experimental comparison of the relative
merits of the materials sold by different ﬁrms has been made, and
it is therefore impossible to assess them fairly. All have proved
satisfactory in practice. Cyanogas is calcium cyanide dust which

6

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

yields from 23% to 29 per cent of its weight in HCN. Cymag dust is
a mixture of sodium cyanide and magnesium sulphate , which
yields 20 per cent of its weight in HCN. Cymag is the cheaper
material pound for pound , and one may probably infer that it is the
cheaper in actual use. Cyanogas gives off the gas a good deal more
rapidly than does Cymag , and therefore maintains a higher concen-
tration; this probably gives it advantages from a humane point of
View or under conditions in which there is a specially rapid loss of
gas through crevices or porous soil. Calcid is a less impure calcium
cyanide and gives off 50 per cent of its weight as HCN. It is sold
in the form of briquettes and is therefore specially safe to handle,
but necessitates the use of a special pump containing a grinder.

Firms which undertake fumigation by contract.

Darlington. T eeside Farmers Ltd. , I3 Horse Market,
Darlington.

Glasgow. Guarantee Exterminating Co. Ltd. , 93
Waterloo Street, Glasgow, (3.2.

Hexham. W. A. Temperley & Co., 9 Beaumont
Street , HeXham , Northumberland.

London. Associated Fumigators, Ltd., 112 Victoria

Dock Road, E16.
Fumigation Services, Ltd., 20-2I St. Dun-
stan’s Hill, E.C.3.
London Fumigation Co. Ltd., Marlow
House, Lloyd’s Avenue, E.C.3.
Rodent and Insect Pest Destruction Co.
Ltd., 69a Sancroft Street, S.E.II.
Rural Service Association (England) Ltd.,
39 St. James’ Street, S.W.I.
H. W. Seymour, Chiswell House, 133/139
- Finsbury Pavement, E.C.2.
Maidenhead. Lloyds Chemical Co., Maidenhead, Berks.
Newcastle-on—Tyne. W. A. Temperley & Co. Ltd. , 2 St. Nicholas
Buildings , Newcastle-on-Tyne .

Penrith. Thos. Edmondson Ltd., Chemists, Penrith.
Scarborough. S. Brooke Dyde, I Seamer Road, Scar-
borough.

ULAWS would be glad to receive the names of ﬁrms for
addition to this list.

Action of County Agricultural Committees.

Certain County Councils contemplate assisting farmers to keep
down rabbits, and farmers would be well advised to address
enquiries to the Agricultural Organisers for their counties.

7

 

 

 

 

 

 




§3. MOTOR -CAR EXHAUST GAS.

To produce gas rich in carbon monoxide. Run the engine till it
is warm, and keep it running at moderate speed. Enrich the
mixture till smoke appears. Then weaken the mixture by opening
the air-choke till smoke just disappears. The maximum of carbon
monoxide will thus be obtained.

To convey the gas to the burrow. Use a 1-inch hose pipe, which
may be 20 or 30 ft. long if unkinked. Connect this to the exhaust
pipe either (I) by means of a short sleeve made of nadiator tubing
or (2) by means of a funnel made out of sheet metal, about gin.
long, Iiin, in diameter at the wider end and i—in. in diameter at
the narrow end, the latter being inserted into the exhaust pipe
while the hose is inserted into the wider end. Insert the free end
of the hose—pipe into the rabbit hole, and pack the hole to prevent
escape of gas. Block up all holes from which the fumes escape.
Remember that neighbouring holes do not always communicate
with each other.

 

Duration. The time required will depend on the amount of
gas lost by diffusion. The aim should be to maintain a good
concentration of carbon monoxide in all parts of the burrow for
some minutes. Fifteen or thirty minutes in all will usually sufﬁce.

Humaneiiess. From human experience and from observation
in lethal chambers, poisoning by carbon monoxide is known to be
painless. Carbon dioxide, on the other hand, would produce
suffocation, and for this reason a rich mixture should be used to
ensure that the combustion of the fuel shall be incomplete.

Utility. The method is suitable for small and accessible
warrens in ground where the gas is not lost too rapidly. Rabbits
killed by it are unsuitable for food, as the ﬂesh is unsightly.

§4. THE LONG NET OR POACHER’S NET. '

Net. The net should be 4 ft. deep and about 80 yards long, of
three—ply or four-ply hemp, with 2% in. mesh; of good quality,
about 375. or 40s. per 100 yards; cheap nets are unsatisfactory.
It should be treated with rot—prooﬁng, and should be freed from
thorns after each set.

Line or cord (85. per double IOO yards). This should be joined
so as to be endless, and threaded through the top and bottom meshes
of the net. All joints should be sewn, not tied, to permit of free
running, and lines should be greased with mutton fat occasionally.

End pegs (Is. each). The line is run through the eye of an
iron peg at each'end, so that the two iron pegs are permanently on
the line.

8

 




Wooden poles or pegs (4s .’ per dozen). These should be of birch
or hazel, not thicker than the ﬁnger, and of mixed lengths'from 22
inches to 30 inches. Sufﬁcient poles to be set at intervals of 8
yards should be carried in an old golf bag.

Clothing. Buttons or buckles should not be worn where they
can catch in the netting.

Setting net: duties of pegger. N o. _I (pegger) drives the end
iron peg into the ground; goes 7 yards in the direction of laying
and spreads the net; returns towards the end—peg and puts in the
ﬁrst pole 3 yards away from it ; puts in a further pole every 8 yards
(or at longer intervals if rabbits are few) , using the longest poles for
hollows in the ground; shakes up the net as he goes and apportions
it carefully; and fastens the bottom and top lines by making a single
turn round each pole, the bottom line being fast on the ground. He
holds the top line between his teeth when necessary.

Setting net: duties of layer. No. 2 (layer) lays out the net,
keeps 12 yards in front of N o. I, and pulls the net taut. When
the wind is endways it is preferable to lay up wind rather than
’down. Strict silence must be observed.

Driving. Rabbits should be driven into the net at high speed
with trained dogs or with a line held at each end and carried
forward so as to sweep the ground rapidly.

Killing. Rabbits should be killed in the net and turned out
later by shaking the top line. Instead of striking the neck in the
usual way, grasp the head ﬁrmly in one hand and the shoulders in
the other, and force the hands together. Death should be instan—
taneous. '

Choice of position. The net is set between the feeding—ground
and the burrow, wood or hedgerow, 12 or 15 yards from the latter.
‘In a small ﬁeld the net should be run a little way up the side
hedges. '

Weather conditions required for netting. A dark, warm,
'breezy night should be chosen, with the wind blowing from the
rabbits towards the net.

Time for catching. All night in September, October, Novem—
ber and February. From dark till 9 p .m. in January and December.
'When one place has been netted several times in the evening, a
change should be made to early morning.

To fold the net. Leave one iron end—peg in the ground. Pick
the other up with the left hand, so that the top and bottom lines
come together. Grip the lines every yard or so with the right
hand and hang the net over the peg. When the far end is reached,
Wind the remainder of the lines round the net.

To expel rabbits from bnrrows. When the burrows are among
rocks or tree roots , throw calcium carbide into the rabbit—holes and
block up some of these; or use renardine or anomoil. In the

9

 

 

 

 

 

 




course of 24 hours the rabbits will leave the burrow. Artiﬁcial
cover, such as a pile of brushwood, may be laid in a convenient
position to attract them.

Method described by M djor Van der Byl. A net set 2 feet
high is quite high enough to catch rabbits at night. The meshes
must be large enough for them to get their heads through,
so that they become entangled. It should be of very ﬁne twine,
so as to be as invisible as possible. It is useless, however, to-
attempt to drive rabbits into a net in daylight, as they will see it
and run round the ends. Poachers prefer a net 80 yards long, and.
would sooner set up two nets of this length than be bothered with
one that is longer and more cumbersome to handle. Their method.
is as follows :——-The end iron peg is placed in the ground, and the net ,.
which is carried looped up on the other peg, is run out to its full
extent, when the other end peg is also placed in the ground. The
net is now lying more or less ﬂat on the ground between the two end-
pegs. Starting from one end, one turn of the top and bottom lines.
of the net is then taken round the top and bottom of the
supporting sticks (which are usually of hazel, % in. thick, about
2 ft. 6 in. long, and pointed at one end). As the net is attached to-
it, each stick is placed upright in the ground ; usual intervals IO yds.
apart, or 8yds. if the catch is expected to be a large one. If an
assistant is available, he should carry the sticks and hand one to the-
net-layer at the required intervals. If the net has to pass over any
hollows, small hooked pegs are used to keep the bottom lines on the
ground. A dark night should be chosen, and strict silence is.
essential. The rabbits should be driven at speed into the net, and-
killed by breaking their necks before they are removed. To
take up the net, one end peg is taken up and held in one hand,
and the net is picked up at every yard by the top and bottom
lines held together and looped over its point, together with one or‘
two of the meshes of the net. An assistant should walk in front and
Withdraw one stick at a time, holding it horizontal so that the net
hangs down like a hammock. It is then easier for the gatherer to
take hold of the top and bottom lines. This method avoids all
entanglement, and the net will be ready to run out again quickly"
from off the peg when required. Great care must be taken to avoid.
thorns; the net should therefore be set up several yards from a
hedge or edge of a wood. With a little practice two men can erect
or take up an 80-yard net in about ﬁve minutes.

Daylight setting devices. Particulars of devices for enabling‘
the long net to be laid out during daylight and dropped into the
operative position at night by pulling a cord can be obtained from.
(i) The R.S.P.C.A., 105, Jermyn St., S.W.I; (ii) Accles and.
Shelvoke Ltd., Aston, Birmingham; (iii) Major Van der Byl,
Wappenham House, Towcaster. These devices are suitable for“
use by inexpert netters.

IO

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

Prices of netting per I00 yds. Gilbertson and Page, Ltd. ,
Hertford, 4ft., 3%ft. or 3 ft. wide: 415., 37s. 6d., 345. Gripper
Manufacturing Co., Portland Road, Leicester, 3ft. wide (with end
pegs only), 325. 6d. ; 4ft. wide for looping up, complete with
special plaited release line, end pegs and supports, 505. Spratt’s
Patent, Ltd., 58, Mark Lane, London, E.C.3, 4ft., 3%ft., or 3ft.
wide, 55s. and 63s., 515. and 58s., 46s. and 525. 8. Young and
Sons (Misterton), Ltd., Misterton, Somerset, 4ft. or 3ft. wide,
35s. and 27s. 6d. Netting can also be obtained in 8o-yd. lengths.

§5. DAZZLE LIGHT (SPOTLIGHT) AND DOG.
DESCRIBED BY L. PARKER.

The demonstration described was given by a farmer in North
Devon (Mr. A. 8. Fry of Ettiford) who had practised the method
for eight years and by its aid, together with a limited amount of
ferreting, had kept down the rabbit population on his 23o~acre
farm most successfully. Neither traps nor snares had been used.
Other farmers in the district were using the dazzle light with equally
satisfactory results. While its main recommendation may be its
utility, the sporting interest of this method is certainly a close
second. The rabbit’s end when it has been caught is swift and
painless; one apt remark was that ‘ ‘the only cruelty was to those
who carry the rabbits!” Dogs are amazingly keen on the work;
one I saw, usually an excellent ratter, ignored completely any rat
seen whilst rabbiting. A good walking distance was covered and
the work when the light was on proceeded so swiftly and methodi-
cally that no disturbance of stock in the ﬁeld was noticeable.

The number of rabbits which might perhaps be considered a
satisfactory night’s catch—a rather vital point—can only be
indicated very generally. Mr. Fry caught recently over 8d and
60 on two nights respectively on land other than his own; on his
own farm, where rabbits are fortunately well in hand, he may
average perhaps 25 for a night’s work. A correspondent in South
Wales, using a different type of lamp, mentions 50 as the average .

The light employed was from a small 6-volt car head-lamp;
i.e. , simply a good—sized reﬂector and a small electric—light bulb,
together with a screw for focusing. By adjusting the screw the
beam of light could be either lengthened or spread out fanwise.
The reﬂector was, for convenience, fastened to a strip of wood
forming a rough handle; on this handle was fastened also an
ordinary electric-light switch operating the light. Current for the
lamp was supplied from a battery which was carried conveniently
in a haversack.

The dog used on this occasion was a greyhound. Almost any
dog capable of sufﬁcient speed and trained to retrieve promptly
would apparently do equally well; both whippets and sheep dogs
are used in the district. When two dogs are used it is usual to hold

II

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

one in, allowing each to make three or four courses in turn. Dogs
do not work well together and are likely to follow the same rabbit.
The dog goes all out when he starts a rabbit, and almost as fast in his
eagerness of search.

When the ﬁrst ﬁeld was reached, with little disturbance or
noise by the party on foot, the lamp was switched on, a part of the
ﬁeld was swept with a strong beam of light and Within a few
seconds the dog had caught and retrieved a rabbit, practically un-
harmed, which was promptly killed by one of the party. The dog
Worked on its own, moving rapidly over the ﬁeld. Within a very
little time it caught and retrieved a second rabbit , and so on. The
light, it should be noted, was kept continuously on any rabbit
started by the dog. The only rabbits to escape were one or two
which had been feeding near cover. When further victims
appeared unlikely to put in an appearance, the light was switched
off and the party proceeded in the darkness to another ﬁeld to
repeat the operation. The point of this, as of all dazzle methods,
would appear to be that the rabbit is put, for a brief time at least,
at such disadvantage that it can easily be caught by a dog. As the
light sweeps the ﬁeld, rabbits in the beam promptly ﬂatten them-
selves on the ground. Their eyes, shining in the light, betray
them ; and although, on the approach of the dog travelling at speed,
they endeavour to escape, their handicap is then too great. One
may fall an easy victim; the next may delay capture for a few
seconds by rapid twists and turns, but instincts and powers of
escape of all are below normal in face of the blinding light.

The light must, however, be kept on the rabbit in all its
twists and turns, and to ensure this being possible the focus, as
adjusted earlier, mast allow a reasonably good breadth of beam;
equally important is it that there should be a strong dazzling light,
the stronger the better.

As the season advances the rabbit population undoubtedly
shows an increasing awareness of danger. For a day or two follow—
ing a raid they will feed near cover; after a respite of a few days,
however, they are again found feeding in the open and on any
night sufﬁciently dark the method is as effective as ever. A windy
night or wind and rain together bring the heaviest captures.
Quietness of approach is a great advantage, and for this reason
a car, which is sometimes used by farmers, is not advisable; it may be
used with some success in the early part of the season and fail later.

The correspondent mentioned as writing from South Wales
uses a lorry head lamp, with calcium carbide, which he considers
to give a wider range for the dog; he has available two dogs, a grey-
hound which occasionally turns the rabbits and misses, and “a
little corgy, which is a sure snip.”

I desire to express my indebtedness to Inspector Liddicott of

the R.S.P.C.A. for his help in this enquiry and to Mrs. Onslow for

having called our attention to the spotlight method.

12

 

 




 

-

 

§6. MISCELLANEOUS METHODS .

Methods described in chapter 6 of Man versus Rabbit include,
in addition to the above, ferreting with purse nets, bolt nets or
guns; shooting; removal of young rabbits by hand from the breeding-
holes ; digging out ; use of the gate net ; and the use of some the follow—
ing devices.

Humane snares. These can be used under all conditions where
ordinary snares are applicable. They include (i) the knotted snare
sold by the R.S.P.C.A., Io5 Jermyn St., S.W.I, a cheap snare
which holds without strangling provided the rabbits be not dis-
turbed; and (ii) various relatively quick-killing snares which are
either drawn tight by a spring or tightened by a non-return eyelet.

Enclosures with valve traps or smooses. Small hanging gates
into an enclosure are left swinging freely about a horizontal axis so
that rabbits form the habit of pushing through them. When
rabbits are to be caught the gates are rendered one-way or non-
return by means of any suitable device. Major Van der Byl states.
that the following catches were obtained by this method on a
2,000-acre estate in Derbyshire: 205, 235, I55, 75, I08, 50,46, 220
97, 207, 55, 245, 118, 28. Rabbits were regularly fed inside the
enclosure, which was sown with a mixed green crop. The enclosure
should be g— or I acre, and should have a narrow angle at one
corner into which the rabbits can be driven for picking up. A
smoose is a short wooden tunnel containing the hanging gate; a pin
can be inserted through the side when the gate is to be made non—
turn.

The pitfall trap is much used in Australia in juxtaposition to
rabbit—proof fencing. It is known in Yorkshire as a “tipe” or
“type” trap. A description was given in the Gamekeeper for
May, 1937.

Other devices are described by the R.S.P.C.A., Io5 Jermyn
St., S.W.I; by the Scottish S.P.C.A., Ig Melville St. Edin-
burgh; and by Major Van der Byl, Wappenham House, Towcester.

§7. RABBIT -PROOFING.

Protection of trees.

Young forests are usually protected by netting, but it is difﬁ-
cult to prevent occasional rabbits from entering, and they must be
prevented from breeding. Possibly the most effective way is to
encourage stoats and other predators, or to use dogs. '

On the other hand Mrs. Hoare Nairne writes as follows:
“Never wire in enough woodland to make a grassy or ﬂowery
surface. The rabbits will get to it somehow. I dress dozens of
trees each year with a dressing made of equal parts of Woolworth’s
paint, parafﬁn oil, and some other oil containing enough disinfec—
tant to make the mixture smell. For larger trees we buy zzo—yds .

13

WW W“

 

 




 

 

 

rolls of rabbit netting from Timothy White, who cuts it free of
charge into I%-yd. or 2-yd. lengths. We link up each of these
loosely round one tree and the rabbits take no more interest in that
tree. We grow beech, larch, spruce, ash and oak, in a small way.’ ’

Some relatively rabbit-proof plants.

Hungry rabbits will attack almost any plant, especially
if it has been newly introduced into a locality. However, although
cuniculo—gastronomic tastes vary somewhat with locality and cir-
cumstances, the following plants are said to be relatively immune.
The list has been compiled, by kind permission, from various
published lists collected by Mr . C .Nicholson, of Tresillian, Cornwall.

Abutilon Vitifolium, Aconitum (especially napellus, pyrami—
dale, ﬁscheri, japon icum , autumnale) , Acrodinum paseum , Aesculus
parviﬂora, Andrachne , Anagallis, Anemones, Antho lyza paniculata ,
Arabis, Arbutus unedo, A. menziesii, Asphodelus ramosus, Aster
novae vangliw, A. novi belgii, Aster puniceus pulcherrimus,
Astilbe , Aubretia , Azaleas .

Bamboo, Bartonia aurea, Berberis vulgaris, B.v. atropur—
purea, B. mahonia, Box, Broom, Buddlea, Bupthalmum grandi-
ﬂorum, B. speciosum.

Cacalia coccinea, Caltha polypetala, Campanula latifolia,
Camassia cusickii (in variety), C. esculenta, Canterbury bell,
Cassinia fulvida, Catananche caerulea, Chrysanthemum (annual
varieties), Chrysanthemum maximum, Clematis, Clethra alnifolia,
Colchicum (all species), Columbine, Cordyline australis, Cornus
alba, Cortaderia conspicua, Cotoneaster frigida, C. horizontalis,
Cowslips, Crataegus.

Daffodil, Daphne laureola, Datura chlorantha, Deutzia,
Dogtooth violets, Doronicum austriacum, Double gorse, Dracoce-
phalum virginicum.

Erica arborea, E. lusitanica, Escallonia exoniensis, E.
langleyensis, E. macrantha, E. philippiana, E. rubra, Elder,
EschsCholtzia (many beautiful colours), Epilobium augustifolium,
Euonymus europaeus, E. latifolius, Eutoca viscida.

Ferns, Fuchsia globosa, F. macrostemma, F. riccartoni,
Forget—me—nots, Forsythia, Foxglove, Fritillaria, Funkia, Garrya
elliptica, Gentiana asclepiadea, Geranium endressi, G. ibericum,
G. phaenum, G. pratense, G. sanguineum, G. sylvaticum, Golden
rod, Gorse, Grape hyacinths.

Hedera helix, H. helix angularis aurea, H.h. elegantissima,
H. hibernica, Helichrysum, Hellebores, Hemerocallis (in variety),
Heracleum giganteum, Hibiscus, Hippophaé rhamnoides, Holly,
Hollyhock, Honesty, Honeysuckle, Hyacinth, Hypericum,
Hydrangea hortensis, H. vestita.

Iris aurea, I. kampferi, I. pseudo—acorns, I. delavayi, I.
sibirica. Jasminum, Juniper. Kniphoﬁa.

Laburnum, Lactuca alpina, L. gigantea, L. plumieri,
Laurustinus, Lavatera, Leycesteria, Lilium gigantea, L. pyrenai-

I4

 

 

 




 

 

 

cum, L. pardalinum, Lily of the valley, Lilacs, Limnanthes
douglasii, Lysimachia clethroides, L. vulgaris, L. nummularia,
Lythrum (in variety, especially salicaria rosea), Lycium.

Magnolia, Malope grandiﬂora, Marigold (all kinds), Melittis
melissophyllum, Mimulus (in variety), M. luteus, Monkshood,
Montbretias, Mulleins, Muscarus, Myosotis, M. palustris.
Narcissus, Nicotiana afﬁnis, N. sander-ae, Nasturtium. Olearia
haastii, Orchids, Ornithogalum, Oxlips.

Paeony, Pampas grass, Periwinkles, Phacelia campanularia,
Philadelphus coronarius, Phlox, Phormium tenaX, Physostegia
virginiana, Polygonum, Poppies (all kinds), Primroses, Primula
(esp. ofﬁcinalis), Privet, Prunus, Pyrus japonica, Pyrethrum
uliginosa.

Ranunculus lingua, Rheum palmatum rubrum, Rhodedend-
rons, Rosa (esp. rugosa and virginiana), Ribes sanguinea, Rose-
mary, Rubus, Ruscus, R. aculeatus.

Saxifraga geum, S. granulata, S. megasea (in variety),
S. peltata, S. umbrosa, Scillas, Sedum family, Senecio clivorum,
S. tanghutians, Snakes’ heads, Snowdrops, Snowﬂakes, Snow-
berry, Solidago, Solomon’s seal, Spanish gorse, Star of Bethlehem,
Syringa vulgaris, S. persica, Spiraea aruncus, S. arguta, S.
bracteata, S. douglasii, S. gigantea, S. lobata, S. ﬁlipendula
plena, S. ulmaria.

Tamarix, Torch lilies, Trachycarpus fortunei, Trillium
grandiﬂorum, Trollius (in variety), Tropalum speciosum,
Viburnum, Violets (in variety). Weigela, Willow, Winter
aconite, Wistaria. Xanthoriza apiifolioa. Yew, Yucca. Zinnias.

Compositions for rabbit—proofing.

Anomoil is sold by Young & Sons (Misterton) Ltd. , Misterton,
Somerset, at 25. 3d. per sample tin, 35. 6d. per quart, 6s. per half-
gallon and 118. per gallon, carriage paid.

Nombite is sold by W. J. Craven & Co. Ltd., 50 Port St.,
Evesham. In liquid form, 25. per pint, 3s. 3d. per quart, 55‘. 9d.
per half-gallon, 118. per gallon. In paste form, IS. 9d. per 1b.,
25. 9d. for 2 lbs., 75. 9d. for 7 lbs., 14s. 6d. for I4 lbs., carriage
paid.

Renardine is sold by Gilbertson and Page Ltd. , Hertford, at
45. per quart, 7s. 3d. per half-gallon and 135. 6d. per gallon,
carriage paid.

See also under “Protection of trees,’

’

above .

Rabbit—proof fencing .

The line offence should ﬁrst be cleared level to the ground for
a distance of at least 4 ft. on each side. The existence of over-
hanging trees or old tree—stumps near the fence may enable rabbits
to jump over it; where it is impossible to remove such trees or

15

 

 




 

 

 

stumps, the line of fence should be chosen to be at least 4ft. away
from them.

The wire netting should be of'gauge 19 with Iinin. hexagonal
meshes. It should be 60 inches wide, with 12 inches let into the
ground, 6 inches downwards and 6 inches outwards, to prevent.
rabbits from burrowing underneath.

The supports should be 6-ft. chestnut or larch stakes standing
4% ft. out of the ground at intervals of 15 ft. Their bases should
be barked, and pickled in copper sulphate. A single strand of IO-
gauge plain wire or barbed wire should run along the tops of the-
stakes and the netting should be clipped to it every 3 ft. 9 in. In
Australia it is the practice to run three wires at the top , bottom and
middle of the netting, to provide vertical battens at intervals of
6 ft., and to make every ﬁfteenth post a heavy straining-post.

Where wooden stays are used they should be provided with
hoods or funnels of wire netting similar to the funnels used on a
ship’ 5 hawsers to prevent rats from boarding the ship. The narrow
end of the funnel should closely clasp the stay and the wide end
should face the incoming rabbits. A safe stay that will afford no
passage for a rabbit consists of a four-ply wire twitched from the
post to a butt 8 in. across. The butt should be sunk to a depth of
3 ft. into the ground and should be slanted similarly to a tent-peg.

Gates should be hung on independent posts in such a way that
they slam against a post and do not swing inside it. They should
be hinged in a similar way. A board of wood should be sunk in the
gate—way to a depth of 6 in. so as to be ﬂush with the bottom of the
gate when this is closed. The gate should, of course, be covered
with netting.

Where the line of fence crosses a rapid stream, a heavy wire
should be strained across the stream and strips of netting should
be suspended from the wire. Each strip of netting should overlap
its neighbours and should have a heavy piece of timber,- which lies
down—stream, attached to the bottom.

It is useless to incur the heavy expense of fencing if a single
hole is left through which rabbits can enter, or a single vantage
point from which they can jump. They will run along the fence
till they ﬁnd it. A young rabbit can squeeze through a hole 1% in .
in diameter or a crevice 1—;— in. wide, or sometimes even Ii in.

The lower part of the wire netting may with advantage be
tarred by allowing tar to drip on it from a nail hole in an old oil
can carried at a moderate walking pace.

Cost of fencing. This depends on the locality and the amount
of fencing required, but may be reckoned at upwards of 8d. or 9d. per
, yard exclusive of gates—about £35 for a 7-acre ﬁeld or £60 for a
30-acre ﬁeld at pre—rearmament prices.

 

Printed by Wadsworth and Company,
The Rydal Press, Ketghley.

w<

 

 




 

IT ISN’T CRICKET

l to use gin traps
for catching rabbits

AND IT DOESN’T PAY

For information apply to

U LAWS

(The University of London Animal Welfare Society)
l 42 Torrington Square, London, W.C.l

 

 




ULAWS

supported entirely by voluntary contributions, is helping to
better the lot of animals, Wild and domestic, by appealing to
"reason rather than emotion . It asks lot the ﬁnancial and moral

support of practical men . It hopes for yours.

THE UNIVERSITY OF LONDON ANIMAL WELFARE SOCIETY,

42 Torrington Square, London, W.C.I.

 




