The Future Policy

at
U L A W;S

(THE UNIVERSITY OF LONDON ANIMAL WELFARE SOCIETY)
in connection with gin traps.

“Some people mistake every opportunity for a difﬁculty,
others turn every diﬂiculty into an opportunity.” It is in the
latter spirit that ULAWS has taken the report of the Select
Committee on Agriculture (Damage by Rabbits), set up by the
House of Lords with terms of reference drafted by ULAWS.
The report is, it is true, unfavourable to the immediate abolition
of the gin trap (ULAWS will shortly publish a critical review
of these and other negative conclusions, which do not appear to
be well founded). Nevertheless it supports certain of the con—
tentions for which ULAWS has so long striven and it advocates
certain restrictions on the rabbit~trappitng industry.

ULAWS has accordingly formulated a new policy. A draft
of clauses for giving effect to it has been prepared and is being
circulated for criticism. Copies will be sent on request. The
policy falls into three phases :

Phase I. To endeavour to get a Bill passed embodying the
positive recommendations of the Select Committee, but the utmost
vigilance will be needed if the Bill is to be strong enough to
prevent the new law from being evaded, as existing laws on
trapping are evaded.

Phase 2'. To prohibit the marketing of rabbits which have
been mutilated by gin trap or snare. By removing the main
temptation to use the cruel trap and to encourage rabbits on
land that ought to be used for corn and pasture, this enactment
will stop the greater part of the existing cruelty.

Phase 3. Reintroduction of the Gin Traps (Prohibition)
Bill when the way has been prepared by the foregoing steps.

SOME IMPROVEMENTS IN ULAWS MACHINERY.

Mrs. K. Ramsbottom, B.Sc. has accepted the post of Honorary
Parliamentary Secretary to ULAWS. She is a lecturer for the
Conservative party and in March last moved a resolution calling
for the abolition of the gin trap; this was carried enthusiastically
by the audience of about 600 Conservative women.

ULAWS has recently become affiliated to the Parliamentary
Science Committee.

May, 193 7.

 








