CHILDREN IN HUMANE WORK)

Written for a Philadelphia Band of Mercy Meeting

BY MARY CRAIGE YARROW

And only the JV aster shall praise as, and only the M aster shall blame;

And no one shall work for money, and no one shall work for fame,

But each for the joy of working, and each, in his separate star,

Shall draw ihe Thin g as he see I l, for the God of T hrngs as They are!
—Kipling.

Children should never feel that
their hands are too small and weak
to serve the world’s needs, and to
iclp toward making it' a happier
place for all to live in, forlit needs
their work quite as much as it does
that of the older ones, and many
boys and girls, I am sure, are fa—

imiliar with the old-time verse, which
teaches so’ well the value of little
things:
“For want of a nail, a shoe was lost;

For want of a shoe, a horse was lost;

For want of a horse, a rider was lost;

Forwant of a rider, a Kingdom waslost.”

Removing tin cans with their rough,
sharp edges, from the streets, where we
so often see them lying, may seem to
some a triﬂe, but it is not a triﬂe to
save a horse, perhaps several horses,
which may be earning the living for
very poor men and their families,
from suffering with painful cuts on
their feet, or dying, as they have
done in some instances from lockjaw,
and just another word about these
dangerous tin cans before we leave the
subject—will you not ask your mothers

to see that after being emptied they are pounded ﬂat before being thrown away, as cats are
very fond of eating much which comes in them, and some have been found with their heads
caught and imprisoned in the cans, and their necks severely cut. ‘

Broken glass is also a very dangerous thing to be left lying upon pavement or sidewalk,
and banana and orange peel have caused many painful and serious accidents. When any
of these are seen it is good Band of Mercy work to push them into the gutter with the foot,
where they can do no harm.

The Claghorn and other nearby Bands of Mercy have been doing excellent work, and
deserve praise and encouragement. Drivers of coal and ash—wagons have been reported for ,
cruelty to the Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals. > They have been severely
reprimanded, and warned not to let it occur again. When making a complaint to'a Society
of this kind, the name and address on wagon should be given, also the number, if any, and the

 




 

time when cruelty was seen, the place where seen, and the exact nature of the cruelty should
be clearly and carefully given without exaggeration.

Several hundred copies of “The Horse’s Prayer” have been distributed by Band of
Mercy members, and placed in stores, stables, etc.; anywhere, in fact, where they would be
seen and read, and many have been given to drivers, who have tacked them up in their wagons
as a constant reminder to be kind. In a large laundry one has been placed in the stall of every
horse. To many the horse is simply an animal which stands on four legs and pulls heavy
loads. They never remember that it feels hunger and thirst, heat and cold as we do, and
is made either very happy, or very miserable, by the treatment it receives; and that it is
often driven when foot—sore and weary. “The Horse’s Prayer” has done much in making
these thoughtless ones more kind, and one day a driver was seen to go to his horse, where it
stood by the curb, and to pat it on the neck after reading a copy, which had been left in his
wagon. How the patient, dumb creature must have‘been cheered and strengthened for its
daily work by these unSpoken words in a language which he so well understood—that of kind-
ness. Not long ago I met a grown-up Band of Mercy boy, now a gray-haired man, driving a
wagon. When the ﬁrm for which he works refused to give his horse a blanket, he bought one
with his own money, and this is what the little pledge made so long ago has done in making
this human heart very tender toward the helpless animal in his care.

A number of children have planned to take copies of “ The Horse’s Prayer” when going
on their summer outings, and to have them tacked up in railroad stations, post-ofﬁces, and
other places. One boy took a package of humane leaﬂets when going to the country, in which
were papers on the care of cows. He found several boys who were very cruel to the cows
which they were driving to and from pasture. He gave them some of the leaﬂets to read,
and before coming home had the happiness of seeing these same boys driving the cows without
sticks, and giving them apples to eat. A very happy change for the animals, and a very im-
portant one for the boys, who would grow into better citizens of our great Republic, and who
would be better fathers to their own boys by—and—by for having learned this lesson in kindness
to the weak and helpless. .

Other children are feeding birds, and keeping pans of water in their gardens, so that
thirsty creatures can drink. Avoid doing this where it would be possible for starving, home-
- less cats to be tempted into Springing upon them while they are eating. Birds like suet, and
in winter a piece of it can be fastened to a pole, or tied to a brick and placed upon a roof.

Cruel boys, Who could not be reached in any other way, have had suitable literature

ailed to them, and we hope that good has resulted from this, as cruelty is so often caused
by thoughtlessness. Many older ones have become interested in Mercy work through the efforts
of children, and have signed the little promise: “I will try to be kind to all living creatures,
and will try to protect them-from cruel usage.”

One boy brought me the names Of four helpers on express wagons, and we gave
each a copy of “Black Beauty.” Another boy came to me often for humane leaﬂets and
cards, which he gave to a veterinary doctor, who passed them on where they did much good.
This boy, and a friend, have been the means of starting humane educational work in two
schools. Out in a western town, one bitterly cold day, a driver brought in two very tired horses
belonging to the father of a little Band of Mercy girl. They refused to drink the icy water
offered to them, but when she suggested giving them some which had been slightly warmed,
accepted it gratefully. The driver was surprised, for he had never thought of doing this, and
asked her how she knew about it, and she said she had read it in a humane leaﬂet, which
reminds us also how much horses suffer in winter from having cold, iron bits put in their
mouths without ﬁrst being warmed in the driver’s hands, and some horses have even had the
skin taken from their tongues in this way. Children can do much for their dumb friends by
learning all they can about them and their needs, and can pass on the information, and they
often have opportunities for Speaking words which prevent much suffering. Animals need,
both in summer and winter, to have kept for them, where they can go to it when they wish, as
they cannot tell us when they are thirsty, a plentiful supply of clean, fresh water. Special
attention should be paid to this during the heat of summer, as many dogs supposed to be mad,
have been found to be only suffering for the lack of water. Some persons think that parrots
do not need much water, but this is entirely wrong, and they and all other caged birds should
never be without it.

It is very cruel to treat animals, which man has domesticated and taken into his home,
as though they were still in a wild state. Cats and dogs should be kept indoors at night, and

. 2
GIFT

wit 29 W9




given a warm, comfortable bed, as your dog can protect your property much better if kept
indoors, where burglars cannot hurt or kill him. All animals should be fed abundantly and
have regular hours for meals. Cats especially should be kept in at night’and have a plentiful
breakfast before being given their liberty in the morning, as it is hungry cats which hunt birds.
.Also feed cats regularly and plentifully in order that they may be strong of muscle, and
quick of eye and limb, and so keep your homes and barns clear of the active mouse, and
wily, energetic rat. The idea that cats should be poorly fed, in order that they may be good
mousers and ratters, is a very cruel and ignorant one, as there is nothing better for this work
than a strong, well-fed cat, who catches them because his instinct tells him that this is his
work, and not because he wishes to eat them. A well-fed cat does not as a rule often eat rats
or mice, and much of this diet would make him sick.

When rescuing a homeless or sick creature from the streets, do everything in your power
to locate the owner, as dogs are often allowed to go out without a caretaker, although it is
not safe to let them do so. Inquire at stores and nearby houses, and try by every means to
learn whether the animal is really lost before taking it away. Not long ago a boy brought
to me, in his little wagon, a cat which had been run over by a milk wagon and was badly
injured. Another brought a suffering cat, which had been bitten in the throat by a dog.
Another rescued from a street a dog which was partially blind and lame, and one rainy evening
two boys brought a tiny, wet, shivering kitten which other boys had been chasing with sticks
and stones, although it was so very small. Its head was hanging down and it acted as though
it had been hurt, but after drinking some warm milk it purred and went to sleep very com—
fortably on a cushion.

One summer while staying in a hotel at the seashore, I saw a very kind family, who col-

lected the scraps of food left from their meals, and the two little daughters carried them to 43:”
a homeless dog which slept under the porch. Poor, hungry creature, how he enjoyed th 5 ,
meals, eating all eagerly, and one day he had a large sweet potato for dessert, which he: . , ’

wagging his tail gratefully. They called him Brownie, and it was thought that he was; left
at Cape May by hunters, because he was gun—shy. I wonder if you know what a terrible thing
it is for a dog, or any other animal, to be gun-shy. It means that they start and tremble in
terror at any noise which sounds like the report of a gun, and long to hide in a dark, quiet place.
They also suffer greatly during a thunder storm, and on the Fourth of July, when there are
so many loud noises. Brownie loves the beach at Cape May, and seldom goes into the town.
He would probably have perished from cold and hunger during the severe winter months,
except for his most devoted friend, a very kind lady, who did not have a home to which she
could take him, but who carried warm meals to him, and interested another lady, who gave him
a large box for shelter, with plenty of straw as bedding. This good friend was untiring in
her efforts to ﬁnd him a home. She ﬁnally succeeded in doing so, and he is now. a beloved
member of a family.

There is another Brownie among my dog friends, a very aristocratic fox terrier, and money
could not buy him, as you will see. He and his master were sleeping one night in their home
in the country, and there was no one else in the house, and it took ﬁre. Brownie awoke and
scented danger, and in his frantic efforts to awaken his master from a deep sleep, he even
tore some of his clothing, but the wise, brave little dog kept right on, and succeeded at length
in arousing him, when he had just time to wrap Brownie in something and lower him from
a window, and then to make his own escape. ,

Now, in closing, I have a sad story to tell, but it will do us all good to remember it. A
young girl, whom my sister knew very well, had a small, pet dog, and one afternoon while
she was entertaining guests, he annoyed her by coming to her to be noticed, and she spoke
to him very sharply. He shrank away as though frightened, and when her friends had' gone
home she missed him, and the house was searched, but he could not be found until the cellar
was reached, and there the little creature lay, quite dead. The shock of the harsh words and
tone had been more than the sensitive loving heart could bear. Instances have also been
known where birds have died from this cause.

So let us all remember that the hearts of our dear, dumb friends are very tender and
easily hurt, and especially should we remember this, when we feel cross and out of humor.
A kind word and gentle touch make them Very happy, and they ask for so little and give us

so much. “Be kind, dear children, and you shall see

Eyes look into yours so gratefully.
Though lips speak not, there 18 language yet,

Bekind.”
3 . W W

 

 




 

 

A BOY’S KIND DEED

By ~MARY CRAIGE YARROW

One evening in winter, at the close of a series of heavy snow storms, a small boy who
was passing the entrance to an alley opening from a Philadelphia street, heard the cry of an
animal in great distress, and on trying to locate it, found that it had come from a hal f—grown
kitten, which was imprisoned in the partly froze en snow of the alley. The kind little lad laid
his two small hands on the snow in order to melt it, and little by little he worked away until
he had released t 1e suffering creature. On lifting it in his arms, he found that part of its body
was hanging quite limp and helpless and that its back seemed to be broken. He carried it
gently to his home, gave it warm milk to drink, and made it as comfortable as he could for
the night. The following day he laid it in a basket, and took it to the home of a friend, who
receives lost and injured animals.

There, in spite of her severe injuries, poor Kitty ate her Sunday dinner, purring very
gratefully her thanks for it. She showed that she deeply appreciated the sympathy and
petting lavished upon her, and once raised a soft little paw, and gently touched the cheek of '
the one who was bending over her, just as a sick child might have offered a caress.

Kitty spent but a few hours with the friends who cared for her at the last, before her
suffering life was mercifully ended, but in that short time she quite won their hearts by her
gentleness, patience and gratitude, and in memory ’5 picture gallery will always hang the
portrait of a cat, with a beautiful, intelligent face, and great, solemn, questioning eyes, vainly
striving to raise a dragging, helpless body, and seeming to be asking whyit refused to move.
She has been given a resting place in a quiet garden, and when summer comes the pink altheas
will drop their petals upon her tiny grave, and the south wind will blow softly and whisper a
‘ lullaby to the little dumb sleeper.

The injuries to this suffering dumb creature are believed to have been the result of an
accident, but what of those countless thousands of her kind, over whom passes that hideous
Car of Juggernaut known as Vivisection, which leaves in its wake their crushed and mutilated
bodies as living sacriﬁces to this heathen deity.

“Tell-established facts, which need no proving, are being made pretexts for the most
' frightful and long drawn out torture of dumb creatures, whose very helplessness should be
their best protection, and in laboratories and elsewhere the callow medical student is in many
instances engaged in imitating the c1uelt y of his teachers. How this constant infliction of
pain is preparing himf ioi his work of ministering as physician to the sick and dying, and
watching by the bedsides of little children, work which requires tenderness as well as skill,
is shown only too sadly by the records of heartless experiments upon trusting hospital patients
and unprotected orphans, all so terribly needing health, strength, and the full use of their
faculties to aid the hard struggle for da aily bread, but all these are being se1iously tamper ed
with, and even their sight, in some instances, impaired by what is known as human vivisection.
Honor and chivalry could not exist where such things are done, for where they are present the
.poor, the unprotected and the weak are as safe as though guarded in a castle.

“For Love is the true religion, and Love is the law sublime;
And all that is wrought where Love is not, will die at the touch of time,
And Science, the great Revealer, must ﬂame his torch at the Source;
And keep it bright with that holy light, or his feet shall fail on the course,
For he who would trample kindness and mere y into the dust—
He has missed the trail, and his guest will fail; he is not the guide to trust.”

 

Published by the AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY, 180 Longwood Ave. Boston, IVIaSS.
Dr. Francis H. Rowley, President; Guy Richardson, secretary.

Price, 6 cents per dozen, or 50 cents per hundred, postpaid.

 




3t

(3

RV}

794

‘y—LAv—gu)

(U

 

A LETTER TO CHILDREN

MY DEAR Boys AND GIRLS:

I want to ask you some questions and make 0 ° *
few minutes. Did-you ever have a pain, or get hiilrlfPtthKIEs find
you w1shed the pain would stop pretty soon, didn’t you beeause~
1t made you suffer. Now I want you to take notice that it is be-
cause you can feel that you have suffered, and to remember that
eyerythmg can feel, horses, and cows, and cats, and rabbits and
birds, and insects—every Cteatm’e that is alive can suffer. , C

You all know that it is bad to be hurt, and that it is hard if
some one goes on hurtmg you just for fun. It is no fun at all for
you. That 1s the way it is when you hurt animals or birds or
insects. Just think. They cannot speak and tell you how mhch

 

A PLEA FOR THE HORSE

Every horse will work hetter and longer if given three
ample meals daily ; plenty of pure water; proper shoes.
sharpened in slippery weather; a blanket in cold
weather ; a stall 6 x 9 or enough room to lie down; a fly
net in summer; two weeks vacation each year. Avoid
the cruel, tight check rein, and closely fitting blinders.
which cause blindness. J

SPARE THE WHIP

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

you hurt them, and that makes it still more wrong for you to do it. ~
\Vhen you feel like throwing a stone at some creature, “just for
fun,” stop a moment and think, “How would I like it myself?
How would I like some big, strong person to throw stones at me?”
You know you would not like it. Do you know what a coward is?
One kind of a coward is a boy or girl, or anybody who hurts any-
thing for fun. It is not real fun, it is a very ugly thing indeed,—-

CRUELTY.

There are ever so many kinds of cruelty. Sometimes boys
have to drive horses with heavy loads, and the horses want to go
slowly as they should, for a heavy load cannot be drawn fast with-
out hurting the horse; yet the boys do not think, but beat the horses
and jerk the lines. Boys, that is cruelty. If any of you want to
do it, stop, and say, “How would I like it myself?” Think how it
would seem if you were the horse, pulling a heavy load; straining
hard to do it; perhaps thirsty and not able to say anything about
it; and with somebody behind you constantly beating your tired
back with a whip, and jerking a hard bit in your mouth. Boys,
will you not try to think when you drive? Learn to use the whip
as little as possible; encourage your horse with kind words,——they
are what you would like if you were a horse,-—and never jerk
the line and never have a tight checkrein.

It is cruel to drive cows fast. Cows were not made to run as
fast as boys, and when you hurt the cow by making her run you
spoil her milk too, and it is likely to make people ill when they drink
it. It is cruel to do anything that you would not like yourself if
you were in the dumb creature’s place. ~

A lady once told me of two pictures which she saw. One was
a very large frog sitting on the edge of a pond and throwing stones
at a very small boy, and asking him how he liked it. The other
picture was a large ﬂy hurting a little boy and paying no attention
to anything but the fun he was having. How dreadfully cruel
such a frog and such a ﬂy would seem. But, boys, you know it ’
is really the other way, and it is boys who are cruel to the poor

. creatures who cannot speak or protect themselves.

Sometimes boys think it is fun to frighten animals. There are
boys who think it no end of fun to say, “Scat l” whenever they see
a cat, and I have actually heard of boys who throw stones at cats!
How would the boys like it themselves?

Suppose that whenever they dared to show themselves in day-
light somebody a great deal bigger than they should make a great
noise and chase them and frighten them dreadfully and throw stones
at them; wouldn’t they be very unhappy boys?

In hot weather, when dogs have gone a long distance or are
very thirsty they sometimes grow feverish and ill, just as human
beings do. Often when they have ﬁts people who do not under—
stand are afraid and perhaps chase them. Then the poor things




grow still more ill, just as you would if you were so cruelly treated.
Any animal that is ill should be very kindly treated and given some
water and allowed to rest quietly in a shady place.

Another way of being cruel is by neglect. If you have a pet
of any kind do not neglect to give it food and water. If you have
cats or dogs always keep a pan of clean fresh water where they
can get it when they are thirsty. Once I knew a little girl who,
because she had company in the house, forgot to feed and give
, water to her bird, and when she thought of it it was too late and
the bird was dead. Think of that, children. Starved t0 dealh.
Think how uncomfortable you are when even for a little while you
need food or water and do not have it, and then think of doing with—
. out it untilyou died. Now do you not see how very wicked such
thoughtlessness is? God made all the dumb creatures and he
made the dear little birds, and he did not mean them to be put
into cages, but if we do it we must take care of them.

And now I want to speak of the birds that are not in cages,
but in the woods and ﬁelds. How beautiful they are and how
sweetly they sing, and how cruel it is to kill them or to take away
their eggs or their young ones. Once I read of a boy who stole a
nest of young birds, and he did not care, though the old ones shrieked
and cried in their grief at losing their children, and the little ones
cried for food and their mother’s care and her warm wings; and
his little sister cried for pity, and said: “Ah, the poor birds!” But
after he had taken the nest he fell asleep and dreamed that some
one, cross and ugly, came and took him away from his home and
his mother and all his friends and put him in a cold, dreary place,
and that it was because of what he had done to the birds; and he
was so sorry that he took the bird’s nest right back within half an
hour to the tree where he had found it, and the old ones came to
it, and he never again touched a bird’s nest.

Women who wear birds in their hats or bonnets are doing a
cruel thing, for the men who catch them often kill them in a manner
far worse even than shooting, and leave their young ones behind to
slowly starve to death. Girls should never wear birds in their hats,
nor birds’ wings; they are helping to encourage very cruel work
if they do. The dear birds were made to sing and ﬂy about and
be happy and make us happy with their beauty, not to be cruelly
killed and put in hats and bonnets. And it is wrong, for another
reason. When the birds are killed there are too many insects,
because birds use a great many insects and their eggs for food.
Insects eat up the farmers’ crops and do much harm in other ways.
It is said that one tenth of what is grown is eaten every year by
insects. You may often see birds hunting in the bark of trees for
insects’ eggs.

Dear boys and girls, it is dangerous to yourselves to be cruel,
because you are likely to grow worse and worse. Cruel people
_ often end by going to prison. They do not believe it in time, but

 




cruelty grows like other sins if it is not checked. Dear children,
learn to be kind to everybody and everything. Sometimes because
there are so many insects they have to be killed; but, if so, be sure
and do it as quickly and mercifully as you can. It is a good thing
to belong to a Band of Mercy, as that teaches you so many ways of
kindness. If there is not one where you live, send a two-cent stamp
to the American Humane Education Society, 180 Longwood Avenue.
Boston, Mass, and get directions for forming one.

With much love to you all, your friend,
MARY F. LOVELL.

 

THINGS TO REMEMBER

Let us learn to love and protect the birds and their nests.

Birds are man’s helpers.

Let us protect the cats and dogs from ill treatment, give them.
food and water and a warm place to sleep in. . They like a gentle
touch and kind words. ‘

Please do not let your dog run under a cart or after a bicycle.
He will soon become exhausted. Many dogs are killed, many lost.
many are made very ill by following bicycles and electric cars.

Please make your horse comfortable. Do not use the over-
head check or any tight checkreins. Never jerk, kick, whip, over-
load or overwork him.

Please be gentle with your cattle, never frighten them or give
them pain by dogging them, or other cruel usage.

Please do not ﬁsh or hunt for sport or use steel or other cruel
traps.

Try never to cause needless pain to any living creature.

Do nothing to hurt the feelings of anyone.

Do all you can to make others happy.

W hen you see any creature abused please earnestly but kindly
protest against such abuse.

Remember the Golden Rule.

Try to treat every living creature as you would like to be
treated if you were that creature.

Be above using profane or vulgar language.

Be clean in body and mind.

These are the ways to be happy and loved.

Published by the AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY, 180 Longwood Avenue
Boston, Mass. Dr Francis H. Rowley, President; Guy Richardson, Secretary.

Price, 5 cents per dozen, or 40 cents per hundred, postpaid.

 




