2/6 per 100

 

The

ECONOMIC VALUE
Of

CERTAIN BIRDS

By JAMES J. CASH

Issued jointly by .°
THE ROYAL SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO
ANIMALS,
105, Jermyn St, London, S.W.I

THE ROYAL SOCIETY FOR THE PROTECTION OF BIRDS,
82, Victoria St, London, S.W.I

 

 

 

 

 




 

THE ECONOMIC VALUE OF CERTAIN BIRDS.
By JAMES J. CASH.

My object is not to try to prove the innocence—from our
human standpoint—of certain birds well known to be harmful at
times. It would be folly to make any such attempt. But in all
fairness I wish to point out (for some people do not realise it) that
all birds have their really useful side, and that the usefulness of even
the few most harmful species is much more important than is often
believed. I delight in all our wild birds, however useful or otherwise,
and I want them to have fair play.

Perhaps the most condemned bird is the woodpigeon ; and
when we see those great winter ﬂocks upon the farmland, busy feeding
on young wheat, clover and anything else that is greerpand attractive,
there does not seem much to be said in their favour. The damage
caused is often very serious. It must be remembered, however,
that these big winter ﬂocks are mostly an invasion from across the
North Sea, and some winters the birds come in enormous numbers.
Having taken their ﬁll, they leave our shores again with the approach
of spring to nest in other countries. It seems practically impossible
to control these unwanted Visitors.

Our home woodpigeons, in many counties at least, are not more
than moderate in numbers, and throughout the year they have a
good deal to their credit. They devour weeds and weed-seeds, and
also take heavy toll of grubs and insects. Woodpigeons love wild
nuts and berries, acorns especially; and it has been found that
when the acorn crop is large the winter immigrants are most
abundant. Among troublesome weeds, the seeds of ragwort,
charlock, corn spurrey, and sorrel are taken abundantly. In July
a woodpigeon was shot in a field of peas. That was why it was
shot! Its crop was found to be full of weed-seeds, mostly corn
spurrey, which that summer had been more troublesome to farmers
than usual. Another bird shot had been feeding on the leaves of
buttercups; and another had its crop full of the same plant, and
sorrel. Hard green berries had been devoured by one bird. One
summer ﬂocks of woodpigeons daily came to feed in a ﬁeld overrun
with chickweed; one was shot, and its crop was found to be full
of the seeds.

The usefulness of woodpigeons in destroying grubs and insects
needs emphasising. Among ﬁeld crops the birds are at once assumed
to be in mlschief; but it is a mistake to assume anything of the




kind. One bird shot among turnips had been busy feeding on grubs ;
and the crops of many have been found full of the caterpillars of
harmful moths,—in two cases with the larvae devastating the leaves
of oak trees.

We all know that the house sparrow is given to raiding the
ripening harvest ﬁelds, and that it makes itself troublesome in other
ways as well. But the sparrow also has its distinctly useful side.
A great deal of its food consists of insect life, and it is always on
the look out for the seeds of weeds. Conspicuously it takes those
of sorrel, dock, dandelion and persicaria. It takes green—ﬂy on
rose bushes, and attacks blight on broom and other trees. The
house sparrow feeds its young on grubs and insects, and on many
occasions I have heard gardeners speak well of the bird. Indeed,
one observant man referred to the sparrow as his most useful bird,
and, resting on his spade, he pointed to his orchard and said 2——
“ All day the sparrows are ﬂying between those orchard trees and
the neighbouring roofs, where young are in the nests. Give me
sparrows from the time of opening fruit blossom till the winter frosts
set in.” Other market gardener friends haVe on many occasions
spoken in similar terms. Sparrows, they ﬁnd, destroy great numbers
«of green caterpillars, seeking them out in the vegetable beds and
ﬂowers. These larvae include those 0f the white cabbage butter—
ﬂies. One may often see sparrows in pursuit of the butterﬂies
themselves, as well as of moths, ﬂies, and other insects.

Rooks and starlings are true ﬁeld labourers, and both birds are
obviously of vast importance to farmers. That they are troublesome
in some respects there is no doubt ; and the fact is that starlings in
many parts of the country are far too abundant. The good that
both rooks and starlings do far outweighs the harm; and their
services in destroying wireworms and the larvae of crane ﬂies
(“ leather jackets ”) cannot be exaggerated. Most of their lives
are spent in devouring grubs and insects on the land; and it is
always a pleasing sight to watch rooks in large numbers (and seagulls,
'too) following in the wake of the plough, and spreading across the
newly turned earth. Equally pleasing to see are the starling ﬂocks
and parties down upon the grasslands, actively engaged in their
own eager way probing for grubs of many kinds. linever forget
being impressed as a youngster, when visiting the Edinburgh museum,
in seeing a rook prominently exhibited, with the words “ One of
the farmer’s best friends”. Passing years have more and more
impressed me with the truth of those words.

The bullﬁnch meets with the hostility of gardeners because
of the destruction of fruit buds for which it is responsible. It is

 




 

to be remembered, however, that bullﬁnches are great seed eaters,
and that most of their lives are spent among the seeds of weeds.
In this way they account for hosts of the most troublesome kinds,
including thistles, docks and ragwort. I am convinced that bull—-
ﬁnches take much more insect food than is often thOught. On several
occasions I have watched them feeding on grubs among the garden
ﬂowers, including nasturtiums. The young are fed, partly at any
rate, on insects and their larvae ; and the caterpillars of the trouble-
some Winter moth are known to be taken.

Greenﬁnches and linnets give trouble at times, from their zeal
in searching for seeds in gardens as well as waste places. But the
lives of these birds are almost entirely spent in the open country,
where they do excellent service among the seeds of weeds. The
young are largely fed on insects. '

The blackbird is often blamed for its love of garden fruit.
That it loves raspberries and Currants I know full well, for I some-
times watch it feeding as I gather, and there is often a suspicious
ﬂuttering among the bushes as I go by. But I am not concerned
in the least. I have always made it a rule that birds are welcome
to their share. :And surely they earn it? They are welcome from
every standpoint, and no species is wittingly disturbed by me. If
only for its lovely song, the blackbird is especially welcome. From
a practical standpoint it pays me to leave birds alone, for the crops
I get are always good, raspberries especially so. And Why? Simply
because grubs and insects form their main food, and they are busy
all the year round in searching for them. Worms, insects, slugs
and snails, all receive the blackbird’s attention, and I ﬁnd that it
has a fondness for large yellow underwing moths, which at mid-
summer it seeks among dead leaves and other litter under trees and
bushes, where the moths rest by day.

The more we study birds the more convinced we will be of the
necessity of protecting and preserving them at all times.

 

(Reprinted from Bird Notes and News, Winter Number, 1940).

5M/7/41 58952 Meats & Caldwell, Ltd., Cranmer Road, S.W.9.

 




