THE DIVINE LAW or LOVE

IN ITS APPLICATION TO THE RELATIONS
OF MAN TO THE LOWER ANIMALS.

 

 

“ I believe that where the love of God is [verily perfected, a
“ tenderness towards all creatures made subject to its will be
“ eaperienced, and a care felt in its that we do not lessen that
“sweetness of life in the animal creation which the great
“ Creator intends for them under our goeernment.”—John
Woolman’s Journal, Chap. XI.

The above is the intuition of the single-hearted “ Quaker-
Saint,” John Woolman. The following are the authori-
tative dicta of the erudite casuist, the Rev. Joseph
Rickaby of the Society of Jesus, late Professor of Moral
Philosophy in Stonyhurst College. .

“ But there is no shadow of evil resting on the practice of
“ causing pain to brutes in sport, where the pain is not the
“ sport itself, but the incidental concomitant of it. ﬂinch
“more in all that conduces to the sustenance of man may
“ we give pain to brutes, as also in the pursuit of science.
“ Nor are we bound to any anxious care to make this pain as
“ little as may be. Brntes are THINGS in our regard.” —Moral

Philosophy, page 250 (the text-book at Stonyhurst College),

by Joseph Rickaby,.S.J. Longmans. 1892.

I shall endeavour to shew to which of these Views it is
ﬁtting to adhere.

THE moral obligations of mankind from very early times
have been regarded in two different ways. The ﬁrst, in
order of antiquity, is the negative and external way.
Certain actions are recognised as moral “offences ” and are
prohibited; and the righteous man is held to be he who can
say, as in the Egyptian Book of the Dead .'——“I am not a
robber ; I am not a slayer of men ; I am not a liar,”—and
so on, through 42 forbidden acts.* The Mosaic Decalogue,
and the Ten Commandments of the Buddhists (to be found in
the Mahawanse) are the most important monuments along
this road of morals.

 

 

* Book of the Dead. Papyrus of A111. British Museum edition,
19. 17.

 




 

2

The second and later way of regarding moral obligations is
not negative but positive; and includes in its purview
Sentiment as well as Action. The prohibitions to kill and rob
are superseded by the command to “ Love thy neighbour.”
The negative Golden Rule: “ Do not do to another what thou
wouldest not he should do to thee,” is transformed into
the afﬁrmative: “ Do to thy neighbour what thou wouldest
have him do to thee.” The “righteous man ” is now
recognized to be a practical benefactor and lover of his kind ;
and future punishment is even represented (in the New
Testament) as incurred by those who have done nothing
to feed the hungry or clothe the naked.

This latter Morality,——albeit bright gleams of it shine
through the utterances of many of the later Jewish prophets,
and of heathen poets and moralists of the East and West,—
is yet emphatically and distinctively the Morality of Christ,
since be formally and deﬁnitely substituted it, (in the words
of his own Two Commandments of Love to God and Man,)
for the Mosaic Decalogue.

The churches which are called by the name of Christ,
have, however, in this matter, as in many others, egregiously
failed to convey to the world faithfully the undisputed
doctrine of their Founder. Very rarely have they preached
frankly this loftier, vaster, sweeter morality, but have almost
invariably approached questions of Duty on the level of the
Forum of Rome, rather than on that of the Mount of Galilee.

Instead of striving to awaken tender emotions and
to inspire sentiments of divine compassion and sympathy,
such as must automatically (as I may express it), forestall
all injuries and prompt all charities, they have exhausted
their ingenuity in drawing out subtly devised delimitations
of rights, as if, forsooth, the enquiry of every soul was, and
ought to be, “ How much harm may I do, and how little good
need I do, to my neighbour?”, rather than the question:
“ How much can I do to serve and bless a fellow—creature ‘2 ”
In particular, since the days of the old School—men, Christian
Moralists have entangled themselves and their disciples in a
net of alternative and (partially) correlative “ Rights ” and
“ Duties,” on the deﬁnitions and limitations of each of which
their subtlest ingenuity has been expended. “ Connatural ”
and “Acquired ” Rights ; “ Alienable ” and “ Inalienable ”
Rights; “Perfect Duties and Imperfect Duties; Positive
Duties and Negative Duties ”; all these distinctions have
been mapped out carefully ; and it is emphatically pronounced
that “no one has Duties without Rights, and no man has
Rights without Duties ” ; and further, that only a “ Person”

 

 




 

 

 

3

has rights (even an infant or an idiot having rights “ radically”).
It is enough perhaps to remark on all these dialectics, that the
essential spirit of love to our neighbour, which would have
dictated, inspired, hallowed and viviﬁed all such Duties, seems
somehow to have evaporated during the anatomy of the
subject.

The mischief arising from Scholastic morality and the
casuistry which followed it in the schools of Suarez and
Escobar, is in some measure familiar to the Protestant world
through Pascal’s Lettres Provinciales; * but we might

‘ reasonably have hoped that in our day we should have

ceased to hear much of “ Rights ” and “Duties; ” and
certainly that these dry as dust deﬁnitions would not have
been set up as a barrier against the extension of duty to the
lower animals. Since the law of England in 1822 attached
penalties to cruelty to animals, and thereby assumed that
such cruelty is a moral offence, the progress both of legisla-
tion and of public feeling in the direction of humanity to the
brutes has been continuous throughout the civilized world; 1‘
and to ﬁnd the ﬂowing tide ordered back in 1895 by a Jesuit
Canute, bidding us to know that “ we have no duties to them ”
(the brutes)——-“ not of justice,” “ not of ﬁdelity,” “ not of
charity, as neither to stocks and stones,” 1 is, to say the
least, startling. But let us for once venture to question the
rigid logic of scholastic demonstration, or rather the validity
of the deﬁnition on which it depends. The exclusion of the
brutes from the ranks of beings to whom duties are owed,
hangs on the deﬁnition of “ Persons ” and “ Things ; ” and
this, again, on the assumption that only (human) Persons.
have Understanding. “ Brute beasts,” says Father Rickaby
authoritatively, “ not having understanding, and, therefore,
not being Persons, cannot have any rights.” “They are of
the number of Things which are another’s, they are chattels.” §
He adds loftily : “ It is not for the present volume to
prove, but 'to assume, that our nature is not common to
brute beasts but immeasurably above theirs ; higher, indeed,
above them than we are below the angels; Man alone
speaks ; Man alone worships ; Man alone hopes to
contemplate for ever,” 850.” As we know nothing at all

 

 

* Mr. Gladstone once informed me, and permitted me to state on
his authority, that, having read all the Jesuit replies to Pascal, he
had found that the charges of misquotation made against him
had failed.

1‘ With the anomalous exception of the rage for Vivisection,
and readiness to condone cruelty calling itself Scientiﬁc.

I p. 248, 249. § p. 248. ‘ l] p. 249.

 




 

4

about the nature of angels (if such beings exist) the above
comparison by Rule-of—three has no particular force. But
one thing must be admitted by everyone who believes in
God, namely, that He is immeasurably far more above Man
than Man is above the Dog; and if it be a righteous thing
for the Inﬁnite God to have mercy on Man, so it must be
righteous for Man, who is bidden to be perfect as his Father
in Heaven is perfect, to have mercy on the brute.

But the ﬂaw to which I wish to point in the argument of
Father Rickaby is this: The chasm once supposed to exist
between reasoning, talking, worshipping Man, and the
highest of the brutes, is not what he represents it to be,—
not absolute. The faculties of the brute are now seen to be
the faculties of the Man in their earlier or embryonic stages
of development, and to draw a line anywhere between the
reasoning powers, the Memory, the Calculation, the Affection,
even the Worship of the lowest human savage, and of the
most intelligent elephant, ape or dog, is increasingly difﬁcult,
often impossible. It is morally certain that the philos0phy
of the twentieth century will recognize the existence in the
highest animals of a measure—(small or great does not
signify to the argument) of that “ Understanding” which is
admitted to constitute a Person, and to convey Rights, and
demand reciprocal Duties. As the point is of great importance,
let us examine Father Rickaby’s argument in strict syllogistic
form. It is, I apprehend, precisely this :——

“ Only beings possessed of Understanding are Persons,
and only Persons have Rights.”
“Beasts do not possess Understanding.”*

“ Therefore Beasts are not Persons, and consequently
have no Rights.”

But whatever value we may choose to attribute to the major
Proposition, the minor is obviously more or less untrue and
the conclusion accordingly is fallacious. To be in accordance

 

* Let it be noted that the word“ Understanding ” is the one used
by Father Rickaby throughout his argument ; and “ Understanding”
(Verstand) is what I am claiming for the brutes ; not Pure Reason
in the Kantian sense (Vernmzft). “ The proper province of under—
standing ” (says Carlyle in his Critical and Miscellaneous Essays)
“ is all, strictly speaking, real, practical, material Knowledge
. . . the adaptation of means to ends in the whole business of
life. In this province it is the universal implement of the mind,
an indispensable servant without which, indeed, existence itself
would be impossible.” He who in these days will deny that animals
have some of this “ Understanding” will be a bold man, I think!




 

5

with fact it should indeed be turned the reverse way. Let
the major Proposition pass for what it may be worth :—

“ Only beings possessed of Understanding are Persons
and only Persons have Rights.”

We must now substitute the minor :—
“ Beasts possess a certain measure of Understanding ” ;
and the conclusion is inevitable,—

“ Beasts are therefore in a certain measure to be
deemed Persons; and they have consequently a
certain measure of rights.”

A man who has made a friend of his dog and who is familiar
with the proofs of the animal origin of the human race,
and knows also the close similarity between our bodies and
those of brutes, (especially in the period before birth when
the embryonic man is scarcely distinguishable from the em-
bryonic dog),—can hardly fail to laugh at the idea of the
belated monk who assures him in "1895 that his affectionate
comrade is only a “ Thing.” But the whole order of ideas to
which such a classiﬁcation belongs is archaic and out of date;
and to found a practical conclusion on it,—such as that we
“ owe no duties of any kind to the lower animals as neither to
stocks and stones ”*——-is an anachronism as absurd as it
would be to steer a ship on the theory of our forefathers
that the earth is ﬂat.

But the second and higher way of regarding moral
obligations ,——that which Christ epitomized in the Divine Law
of Love,—is open to no such charge of failure; nor will it need
revision While the ages endure. The advance of light in
these modern times, while it relegates many a mediaeval
conception to the limbo of forgotten things, only reveals
more to our awakening eyes the profound signiﬁcance of the
Law of Love.

Is there any reason, I now ask, why that Law should not
be held to extend to our relations to the brutes, and should
not habitually be applied by us (with such modiﬁcations as the
circumstances obviously require) to the humbler creatures
who are our fellow lodgers on this planet? It is true that
Christ’s Two Commandm nts verbally concern Duty only “ to
God and our neighbour ” But are not the brutes, who
love and serve us, in a very real sense our “ neighbours,” as

 

* Rickaby, p. 249.

 




 

6

well as those distant human beings, strangers, foreigners
or heretics whom Christ taught us, in the parable of the Good
Samaritan, to recognise as the typical “ neighbour ” ‘2
How many horses and dogs have been practically “good
Samaritans” to us ‘2 The principle of the Christian Law
of Love, as of the Pauline “ Charity,” is one of unlimited
extension; and it is to misconceive its essential character
to imagine that it can properly be stopped at a certain
line, either of neighbourhood, or tribe, or creed, or nation,
or sex—0R SPECIES. To believe that a man is hidden to
be loving and tender to his fellow-men, and at the same time
to remain indifferent tothe pains of the brutes, is to suppose
that a Gentleman is called on to act as a gentleman only
to his equals, and as a bully and tyrant to his inferiors.
“The merciful man is merciful to his beast.” Exactly so!
He would not be a merciful man if he were not ‘5 merciful
to his beast.” To me it seems that the Law of Love,
just in proportion as it ﬁlls our hearts, must overﬂow
to the lower creatures around us; and that it is wonderful
that so many divines have not seen that such an extension of
it is inevitable. To hear the cold and unfeeling way in which
many teachers in all our churches discuss the “right” to
torture animals, one would almost deem they believed in
the doctrine of the Zend-Avesta that the noxious ones
are the creatures of Ahrimanes. Even if they were such,
so long as they were sentient, they would have claims on our
mercy and justice, nay, on our special and inﬁnite pity, like
the creation of Frankenstein,

To some of us the birds and brutes are endeared as
creatures of our Father whom, in our poor way, we love and
adore. They are “the unoﬁ‘ending creatures which He
loves,” and of which the author of the Book of Wisdom
said well, “Never wouldst thou have made anything hadst
thou not loved it.” The old Quaker saint, and, it would
seem, before him St. Francis of Assisi, had experienced this
inspiration of tenderness to animals for God’s sake; a senti-
ment we may call Religious Zoophily.

There are, however, as we all know, thousands of
excellent men and women who, unhappily for themselves,
cannot thus catch the gleam of glory which adds sanctity to
anything we connect with the thought of God, but who,
nevertheless, thoroughly recognize the obligation of the
moral law of Love and carry it out in their lives of
goodness and beneﬁcence, far better and more perfectly
than the majority of those who all day long cry “Lord,
Lord,” to Jesus Christ, but neither do nor feel the

 

 

 

 




 

_._._ell:_‘

 

7

things he commanded. These loving-hearted Agnostics have
not failed in numberless instances to extend their ardent
benevolence to the brutes, and seek to spare them pain and
rejoice to provide for their humble happiness and pity them
and minimize their sufferings to the utmost when it is needful
they should be sacriﬁced. Let us for a moment pause and ask
how it seems to such a genuine Zoophilist,——either Religious or
Agnostic,——to be told that he is at liberty to inﬂict agonies on
his faithful horse or dog, and is “ not bound to any anxious
care to make this pain as little as may be ‘2 ” Would he
welcome such a priestly assurance ‘2 Or would he turn from
his teacher with the same disgust as if his juggling with
Rights and Duties, Persons and Things, had resulted in the
conclusion that he was at liberty to burn his own infant
alive ? -

The man who truly “ Mes mercy ” asks for no absolution
for cruelty.

That- there are difﬁculties in the way of applying the
Divine Law of universal love to the lower animals must be
frankly and fully admitted. Of course the sentiment‘which,
when addressed to a human fellow creature, ought to include
respect for his moral responsibility and human status,—
When addressed to a brute or bird necessarily shrinks
practically in the main to sympathy in its pains and joys.
The ﬂuttering, dying bird fallen from the nest calls for our
pity; the lark carolling up in the sky, the ﬁsh darting about
in the sunny stream, the hare leaping over the dewv grass,
claim our kindred smile at the spectacle of their joy. The
great poet who apostrophized the “blessed living things”
around him in a burst of sympathy, expressed simply the
outﬂow of delight and tenderness which, were our hearts
tuned aright, would be natural to us always at the sight of
beautiful and happy animals.

It is not contended that our sentiments towards all kinds
of animals can be altogether the same as those we feel towards
domestic or harmless ones. The School—men may here not
inappropriately teach us their old distinction between Love of
Complacency which can only be bestowed on some, and Lore
of Benevolence which we should give to all. Even the wild beasts
and noxious serpents wherewith we are inevitably destined to
wage war, may, in some sense he to us what savage fees
are to chivalrous Christian soldiers ; objects not of hate
or cruelty, but of regretful conﬂict. ‘

We cannot go far wrong if we accustom ourselves ands‘
train our children to apply to all animals What we may call
the Golden Rule of Z00phily, “ Treat the beings beneath you

 




8

as you would wish to be treated by beings above you.” There .
is nothing in this rule of pedantic distinctions founded
on imaginary lines between Persons and (sentient and
intelligent) Thing/s. Nor does it forbid carrying on the
relations we now hold to our cattle and boasts of burden, or
to any other animals. It is quite conceivable that beings of
a superior order, if such existed on this planet, might be
obliged to take our lives, or use us in their service. But in
such case we should wish that they should deal with us justly
and considerately, and that Azrael would pity us and spare us
pain when he came to execute his mission of death. Were
this rule universally recognized no careless and brutal
butchery, no cruel transport of cattle by land or sea; no
ﬁeld—sports involving terror and agony ; no slaughter of birds
to supply ornaments of dress, nor of lordly elephants for
sake of a morsel of ivory; above all no Vivisection, would
ever more take place. We should never again “link our
pleasure or our pride ”
J
“ With suffering of the meanest thing that feels.”

I repeat, Let us but accustom ourselves to feel sympathetically
and tenderly towards the lower animals,—-to feel (as becomes
children of God), as nearly as we can, like Goa, in regard to
them,—and then, while gentle and considerate habits and
careful legislation more and more prevail, the problems
which now seem obscure will clear themselves before our
eyes. “ Love ” is not only “ the fulﬁlling of the law,” but
the light in which the law becomes plain.

FRANCES POWER COBBE.

Hengwrt, Dolgelly, July 7th, 1895.

 

 

 

 

 

 

Printed for FRANCES POWER COBBE, Hengwrt, Dolgelly, by
PEWTRESS & 00., 28, Little Queen Street, London, W.C. '

Copies sent gratis on application to MISS COBBE.

 




