 

 

 

 

w T heChurch & Viviseotion

The Rev. B; G. BOURCHIER, M.A.

(Vicar of St. J ude-on-the-Hill,
Hampstead Garden Suburb).

 

 

PRICE ONE PENNYa

Being the chapter'entitled
" Concerning Vivisection "
reproduced, by kind per«
mission of the publishers,
‘ Messrs. Chapman 6- Hall,

Ltd., from the author's book

“Without Fear of Favour ”,
(published 1925)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

AND PUBLISHED BY

CD6 BrIIiSI) Zlnion for flbomion Of vivisection,

32, CHARING CROSS, LONDON, SW. 1.

 

 

C. J. HURD (T.U.), 51, New Road. Edmonton, N. 9.

 

 

 

 

 




 

 




The Church and Vivisection,

1

The Rev. B. G. BOURCHIER, M.A.

 

HE, anti-vivisection creed implies no con-
demnation of true and useful knowledge,
but it does deny that knowledge which

shall be of true beneﬁt to mankind can be obtained
by the conscious exploitation of helpless living
creatures. How can we hope for the moral and
spiritual progress of the world while it attempts to
build up health on the results of such exploitation?

Who are the true “reactionaries,” those who
strive for decent and adequate housing alike for
the city and the rural population, for simple and
healthful living with less abuseoof the laws of
Nature, for sound minds in sound bodies, and for
minds, moreover, which will not knowingly permit
that weaker things should be made to suffer for
any supposed good which may accrue, or those
who accept as necessary evils the overcrowding in
densely populated areas (such as four families
living in a four-roomed house—referred to quite
- recently in the House of Commons), the still im-
perfect regulations in regard to sanitation in some
quarters of our great cities, the ignorance pre-

vailing in regard to hygiene, while recommending
1

 




 

as a panacea for ills unavoidable under such con-
ditions vaccination and inoculations, dosing with
animal extracts, and such alleged cures or pre-
ventives against the ﬂouting of natural laws of
health ?

Now comes the question: Are we to ﬁght vivi-
section on the moral aspect of the subject or on
the scientiﬁc? This is a question which is fre-
quently asked by earnest abolitionists. Some aver
that the moral side should be the only ground of
attack. No one has said that the ﬁght should be
limited solely to the scientiﬁc. We may rightly
conclude that we must ﬁght it on both.

The moral ground is unqestionably the higher
ideal, and it is unassailable. Doing evil that good
may come can never commend itself as sound
principle to any healthy-minded, conscientious
individual. To cause pain or suffering, or both, to
any sentient and sensitive creature which is too
weak to resist the strength of the one who inﬂicts
it—that is, pain and suffering which are inﬂicted
without reference to the creature’s will or consent,
not for its own personal beneﬁt, but for the alleged
beneﬁt of others—is an immoral procedure. It is
not in accordance with sound principle, with the
teaching of Christianity, or with the recognized
moral code of civilized society.

Our opponents, on their part, declare that ex-
‘ 2

 

 

 




 

 

 

perimentation on living animals is a moral proce-
dure, because the pain or suffering or both is
“ slight,” that vicarious suffering is a recognised
moral principle, and that it is justiﬁable to inﬂict
pain and suffering under certain safeguards, if, as
is alleged to be the case in vivisection, immense
beneﬁcial results to vast numbers of human beings
have followed and will follow the practice.

To this we reply that the amount of pain or
suffering endured by another cannot be measured
except by the sufferer; that vicarious suffering is

i only legitimate where it is voluntarily endured;

and that the alleged beneﬁts derived from this
inﬂicted pain and suffering are illusory.

There are many good and estimable persons,
however, who, being assured by those they deem
competent to judge that the beneﬁts derived from
vivisection are enormous, and that more beneﬁts
in the future can only be obtained by its means,
maintain that we should look kindly upon the
well-meant efforts of the vivisector devoted to the
salvation of millions from disease and death, and
should trust to his humanity not'to inﬂict more
pain and suffering than he can help.

The pain and suffering to be endured by one
class are here set against the temporal beneﬁts
alleged to accrue therefrom to another class. The

practice still remains an immoral one-21 reproach
3

 




  

 

    

 

which can be escaped from by no law of logic or
philosophy; and we are driven therefore, nolens
volens, to answer the claims of justiﬁcation which
are urged by the utilitarian school and accepted by
their dupes.

Looked at plainly in the face, the plea that one
class is justiﬁed in proﬁting by the blood and torture
of another class is one which appeals to all that is
selﬁsh in human nature; it ignores the pain and
suffering ofothers, provided we can beneﬁt our-
selves. It implies the will to Shirk personal suf-
fering; it is always somebody or something else
that must suffer. The crude impulse lying behind
this conception is nothing'less than cowardice.

The specious plea, especially common among
medical students, which talks of “beneﬁting
humanity” is nauseating. This pious phrase
really means “beneﬁting oneself.” And what
amazes and appals me is that any man, calling
himself a man, having inﬂicting horrible suffering
on a wretched and defenceless creature, should
then have the effontery to want to put himself in
the forefront as a benefactor to mankind.

It may be wearisome to have to answer him——
to come down from the high standard of morality
to that of bare materialism, and to meet him on his
own ground. But if we are to win through, it will

have to be done. We shall never achieve our end
4

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

by ﬁghting on the moral question alone ; as time
rolls on, the ﬁght will become more and more a
scientiﬁc one; it is forced upon us, the gauntlet is
thrown at our feet by our opponents, and we must
take it up or go under. We have to meet society
in its mental state and moral capacity as we ﬁnd it.
We have to show, not only that vivisection is
immoral, but that it is useless and misleading.

No one can consider himself equipped for the
battle unless he has mastered the few leading his-
torical facts which are necessary for the understan-
ding of the false claims made by the vivisector;
and no one should hesitate to make that study.

The moral question makes little demand upon
the intellect. It is one which concerns heart and
principle; the scientiﬁc question does make a de-
mand upon the intellect, but its mastery is within
the compass of the intelligence of any ordinary
person. It is useless to say, “ I take my stand
upon the moral side of the question, and I will
appeal to nothing else” ; nine-tenths of the people
we meet do not, and cannot and will not, rise to
that level, but are blind and deaf and indifferent
to moral aspects. We must be prepared to come
down to their selﬁsh level, and ﬁght the utilitarian
dogma for all it is worth.

It is all very well to say, “ I will not do so, the

moral question is enough for me.” In that case
5 .

 




 

 

you may as well clear out of the ﬁghting line.
Your ideal is admirable ; it is unanswerable ; it is
, the highest standard that could be raised; but,
unless you are prepared with a workable scheme for
the abolition or regeneration of human nature, you
will never win by merely talking morals.

The scientiﬁc question is as unanswerable as the
moral. Vivisectors have not a scientiﬁc leg to
stand upon. In its every aspect Vivisection, as I
comprehend it, is based upon falsehood, deception,
and illusion, and is the most cowardly and cruel
cult of our time. It insults alike the honour of
God and the common-sense of man. Ask yourself,
“ Whence come diseases ? ” That question, if we
are honest, is capable of but one answer. The
majority of the ills from which we suffer may be
classiﬁed as to their causes in three main groups,
thus: (a) Those due to violation or neglect of
hygiene, public or personal, including such as are
caused by overcrowding, dangerous trades, food
adulteration, etc., etc. (b) Those due to dietetic
errors, viz., overfeeding and gluttony, excess of
ﬂesh foods and too much alcohol, narcotics, and
the like. (0) Those due to the premature exhaus-
tion of vital force or nervous energy; the result of
the haste to be rich, and the struggle for purely
egoistic ends which characterize our modern civili-
zation, aided by the depleting effects of the passions
“hate, envy, greed, sensuality—which ﬁnd play
therein; or, on the other hand, those due to the

condition of hopeless struggle, worry, and fear
6

 

 




 

 

which together with grinding poverty and semi-
starvation are, alas! the lot of many, and which
are very largely due to the action of our ruthless
competitive system, accentuated by the injustice of
many of our social laws.

In the light afforded by such a classiﬁcation,
which shows disease as the direct result of the
violation of law, physical, ethical, or spiritual, is it
not certain that if man were to repent him, in
the true sense of the word, of these errors, and
earnestly set about mending his ways on all planes
of his being, nine-tenths of the diseases which
afﬂict him' would speedily disappear, and be un-
known in the course of a generation or two; by
which time the consequent enhancement of physi-
cal vigour and stamina would most propably have
rendered him immune from the remainder ?

Why, then, has this radical and rational method
of dealing with disease, or rather its prevention,
been for the most part neglected ? Because SELF
stands in the way. The reform that I am indicating
would undoubtedly necessitate the renunciation of
much that man considers desirable. In short, it
would involve SELF-SACRIFICE, and rather than
face this we prefer to retain our follies, luxuries,
and vices, and to attempt, instead, to wring from
the involuntary sufferings of OTHERS the know-
ledge which we hope may save us from the pain,
disease, and death which are the inevitable results

when the laws of God are deﬁed and ignored.
7

 




 

Truly a vain and cowardly attempt to escape the
retributive effects of our own iniquities!
Vivisection is essentially anti-human as well as
being diametrically opposed to the Divine Will, for
its true roots lie deep in cynical egoism and callous
selﬁshness, the proliﬁc soil from which spring the
vilest of crimes. When vivisection was ﬁrst intro—
duced into England on an extended scale, the
whole medical profession recoiled in horror from
the attempt to advance knowledge by such means,
and their leading journals condemned the practice
in no measured terms. Time has indeed debased
the moral currency! Nevertheless, God has not
left Himself without witness, for ever and anon
there has risen up a prophet, possessed of a suffi-
ciency of courage and of vision to hold aloft the
torch, the light of which has deviated many from
the path of death. Notably, the great Lawson
Tait, F.R.C.S., M.D., LL.D.~-~of blessed memory
-—-—who, writing in 1899, said these remarkable
words: “ Some day I shall have a tombstone put
over me, and an inscription upon it. I want only
one thing recorded upon it, and that to the effect
\ that ‘he laboured to divert his profession from the
blundering which has resulted from the perfor-
mance of experiments on the sub-human groups of
animal life, in the hope that they would shed light
on the aberrant physiology of the human group.’
Such experiments never have succeeded, and never

can. And they have, as in the case of Koch,
8

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

Pasteur, and Lister, not only hindered true progress,
but have covered our profession with ridicule.”

Verily, an unanswerable indictment of what is
surely the most radically unscientiﬁc, science in the
world. It is utterly impossible to Observe natural
function under the inﬂuence of pain in either man
or animal. Moreover, lest we forget, human vivi-
section is the logical and inevitable outcome of
animal vivisection —- a cheerful prospect for
prosperity yet unborn I

No, vivisection is to be condemned from every
point. It is unscientiﬁc in its methods, and con-
sequently any knowledge gained by its practice is
bound to be misleading, and when applied to the
relief of human disease it has generally proved
useless, and frequently harmful. It ignores the
only true method for the conquest of disease, and
its prevention, viz., the observance of the natural
(Divine) laws of man’s being. It‘is productive of
an immeasurable amount of severe suffering to
animals without any corresponding advantage or
beneﬁt to them. It is the direct infraction of the
moral law, and utterly incompatible with honour—~—
the doing of evil in the vain hope that some good
may result. It never can.

Viv-isection’s effect is to debase the moral and
spiritual standard of those who practise it and
those who witness it, and its tendency is to foster
a selﬁsh, cruel, and callous spirit, and it thus con-

stitutes a graVe menace to society. Above all, it
9

 




 

 

is the act of a coward, who seeks to alleviate and
heal the diseases of mankind, which are self-
generated, by torturing a sentient creature by
reason of its defencelessness, and which has never
itself had any share in contracting those diseases,
the very construction of the animal’s body being
entirely different from that of man. Above all,
vivisection’s spirit is the inversion and antithesis
of the spirit of the Divine Love, which made itself
manifest in pity and self-sacriﬁce, and whose way,
Christ declared, is the only way by which man can
reach the true goal of his being. Of Jesus it is
said in the sublime Prayer of Consecration, “Who
made there by the one oblation of Himself once
offered . . .” furnishing by His selfless act an
abiding example to all men to follow in His steps.

If, therefore, vivisection is so essential, the path
of the vivisector is plain—let him offer himself,
and his own body, not another’s without any re-
, ference to that other’s consent or will. But vivi-
section is not, cannot be, essential. We do but
insult God, and do despite to His Holy Name and
Character, when we presume to suggest that He
created the animals to subserve by sufferings, name-
less and shameless, the unholy purposes of man—
the consequences of his selﬁsh mode of life. In
the immortal words of Abraham Lincoln, who,
when he came up against the slavery of his time,
clenched his ﬁsts and said, “ I mean to hit this
thing, and by God! when I do I’ll hit it hard.”

We anti-Vivisectors say the same.
10

 

.f

 

 




 

.f

 

 

With few noble exceptions the attitude of the
leaders and members of the Churches on this ques-
tion has been contemptible, and to their indifference
and selﬁsh acquiescence may be attributed the pro-
press of this foul thing. To my knowledge, more
people are kept outside the Church of God by the
callous and cowardly silence of so many of our
Bishops and clergy in refusing publicly to condemn
this practice, which is the negation of Christ,
than by anything else. When will they realize
that by their tacit sanction and acceptance of the
imaginary beneﬁts of this atrocius crime they are
actual, even if vicarious, partakers of its guilt;
that they crucify the Lord afresh in the torments
they inﬂict on His creature, and in so doing darken
the vision of His Presence? It is indeed high
time that the Churches awakened from their
apathetic slumbers, and sought in tears and re-
morse the forgiveness of God, and His creature,
which for so long they have been content without
protest to see so cruelly wronged.

 

The British Union for Abolition of Viviseotion

(BRITISH ANil-VIVISECTION SOCIETY)

is the Largest Society of Its kind in the World.

President—~Walter R. Hadwen, M.P., J .P.
Secretary—~Miss Phyllis M. Hodgkinson.

ﬂddress: 32, Charing cr035| LOI‘Idon. SIWI 1-

Terms of Membership:
Life Members, £5. Annual Members, 10/- and upwards. Associates, 5/-.
Monthly Organ, The Abolitionist, 2/6 a year, post free.

11

sq : .1; are. 4:25;; .22; t2; 5 ._.. .; we n/MLM*.¢L¢¢.-vM .::.;a:.g,z:a.: ~23. #2,“-mwmew

 




 

 

IVISECTION, as generally understood, and as dealt-
with in law, means the subjecting of living animals.
to experiments in the interests of science. Most of these
experiments involve pain or suffering; some involve very
little or none at all ; but it has been found totally impracti-
cable to attempt to separate the latter from the former.
Torture still exists under the name of vivisec‘tion, all over
the world. Animals are joined together like Siamese twins.
(a), worked to exhaustion on treadmills after being operated
on (b), starved for long periods (0), deliberately deformed (d),
slowly diseased, have their digestion impaired, their ducts
tied, their natural functions obstructed (e). Most of these-
things are done in England, and even those hitherto con-
ﬁned to America or the Continent may take place any day
over here; for no British vivisector denounces, but all
admire, these practices.
A German vivisector, denounced in his own country for
infecting young girls with a horrible disease, was accorded
honours and given a gold medal by a British Medical

Society in London in 1911 (f).

(a) “Popular Science Siftings,” April 11th, 1922 ; American J0nrnal of '
Physiology, December, 1923, etc. ‘

(b) Journal of Experimental Medicine, August, 1914.

(c) Dr. Lorain Smith’s evidence (Q. 18265), Royal Commission of 1906-10.

((1) Dr. Blair Bell, Journal of Experimental Physiology, June, 1917:
Special Report Series, N o. 38 of Medical Research Council, 1920, etc.

(e) See Leaﬂet “ English Vivisection Experiments.”
(f) Professor Neisser.

Medicine, at his best, does not require association with
these practices. But the words of the late Dr. George
Wilson, a medical member of the last Royal Commission
on Vivisection, hold good :—

“ The distinguished physician, with his unrivalled
clinical experience, and his intimate knowledge of
disease, is gradually being ousted from the treat-
ment of cases for which vaccine therapy is deemed.
essential by the bacteriologist, who has little or no
experience of disease except What he can induce
in animals.”

 




 

   




 




