ISSUED BY THE R.S.P.C.A.

HUMANE SfLAUGHTER
ANIMALS FOR FOOD

Allegations £5” Objections
Of Meat Traders

NAILING THEM TO THE COUNTER l

The introduction of any reform has always met with strenuous
opposition from those whose methods or views have been the objects for
improvement.

On the question of the slaughter of animals for human food this
opposition from a large number of meat traders has been fortiﬁed by the
claim that “ the trade ” knows more than an outsider of the conditions
existing in slaughter-houses. Since this is undoubtedly true it is of im-
portance to realise that many who have this inside “information” are
keenly supporting the movement for humane methods and that their views
come as a result of what they have themselves seen and experienced.
They are moreover so keenly alive to the advantages of the humane method
that, in their own slaughter=houses they practice what they preach with no
detriment to their trade. The majority of meat traders naturally favour
the method to which they are accustomed, and oppose any reform which,
would lead to more control and supervision in their slaughter—houses.
So far as we know, however, they have adduced no facts to support
theidea that their interests would suffer. It is important to remember,-
in spite of this opposition, that 2——

(1) 226 Towns, Urban and Rural District Councils have adopted the
Humane Slaughtering Bye-Law (9b of the Ministry of Health’s Model
Bye=Laws), including such important authorities as London County
Council, Brighton, Winchester, Southampton, Plymouth, Taunton,
Rochester, and Portsmouth.

(2) Over 8,000 killers have been sold by the R.S.P.C.A., and the Society
alone now averages a sale of nearly a million cartridges annually.
In addition a large number of instruments and cartridges are supplied
by other organisations, gunsmiths, etc.

(3) Thousands of butchers have voluntarily adopted the Humane method
without any detriment to their trade or to the meat.

t is not too much to claim that the experimental stage of the Humane
method of slaughter is passed, for the experience of actual users goes to
prove that the ordinary method is unnecessary and that the arguments
in its support are contrary to facts. Moreover, the Ministry of Health,
before recommending the Bye—law already 1efe1red to, made a very full
and exhaustive inquiry into the whole subject, while the London County
Council went very thoroughly into the whole matter in ma 9before
deciding to put the Bye—Law into force.

 

April, 1927.

 




 

HUMANE KILLING METHODS SPOIL THE MEAT.”
OPINIONS (Scientific and otherwise).

SUPPORTING THIS ALLEGATION.

Evidence was given in the
Reading Case of Dodd v. Venner,
which induced two Magistrates to
ﬁnd “ that the meat of pigs killed
for bacon purposes by a mechanically
operated instrument is more likely
to deteriorate for curing than is
meat of pigs killed by hoisting and
sticking.’ ’—‘ ‘The Reading Mercury, ' '
14th Jan, 1922.

Mr. Charles Multett (Messrs. 3.
Ward, Ltd., Birmingham), at a
dinner of the National Pig Breeders’
Association, stated :—-—“It was im-
possible to make a good ham or
good side of bacon from a shot pig.
If butchers had to use the so called
humane method prOposed by the
R.S.P.C.A. it meant that the death-
knell of the English bacon pig had
been sounded.”——“Birmingham Post,”
5th Oct., 1922.

Mr. F. w. Goad, Secretary of the
Union of London Retail Meat
Traders Incorporated, has stated
“ That scientiﬁc investigations
have found that the ﬂesh of animals
killed with a mechanical killer does
not keep as well as the ﬂesh of
animals killed in the ordinary way.”

AGAINST THIS ALLEGATION.

The Medical Ofﬁcials of the late
Local Government Board and now of
the Ministry of Health, before issu-
ing the Model Bye Laws, investigated
the whole subject of humane killing
from the points of View of the animals,
the butchers, the slaughtermen and
the public health. On two occasions
when Petitions were presented by
the Meat Traders’ Federation the
question was re-opened with the
result that in both cases the Ministry
of Health conﬁrmed the previous
decision of the Local Government
Board.

Dr. Pringle, Medical Ofﬁcer of
Health, Ipswich, states :-“With
regard to the demonstration given at
the Co-operative slaughterhouse as to
the keeping quality of meat from
animals killed with the humane killer,
I am perfectly satisﬁed that there is
no difference of any kind, as compared
with meat slaughtered in the usual
way. In my opinion there is simply
no foundation for these allegations
that have been made by the
Butchers.”—-—April 7th, 1922.

The only two recent investiga-
tions known to the R.S.C.P.A. were
at Belfast-——October, 1920; and
Birmingham—June 1921. With refer-
ence to Belfast, the Ulster S.P.C.A.
ascertained from the owner of the
beasts used that the meat from these
carcases was sold in the butcher’s
shop in perfect condition six days
after the trial and was cooked and
consumed by the public up to 13
days after the trials and was then in
perfect condition.

At Birmingham the Humane killer
was used on fourteen animals. The
Birmingham Branch of the R.S.P.C.A.
ascertained that the owners of the
carcases sold them in the usual way
at full market prices, and received
no complaint about them. Mr. De
Vine, the Chief Veterinary Inspector
for Birmingham, who signed the
report, admitted in cross examina-
tion at the Reading trial, that
the owner of the I4 carcases suﬁered
no loss as; a result of the humane
killer being used.

The Chief Inspector, Health De-
partment, Exeter, says :——“The
mechanically operated instrument
does not in any way affect the quality
of meat.”—May 27th, 1921

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

“ HUMANE KILLING METHODS ‘SPOIL THE MEAT.”
FACTS.

SUPPORTING THI3 ALLEGATION.

AGAINST THIS ALLEGATION.

Messrs. Reeks 8: Son, Christchurch, WI‘lte :
—-—“We must have slaughtered thousands of
cattle by this method, and we can safely say
the meat keeps equally as well as if pole-
axed.”—May 13th, 1921.

The Manager of the Hants Farmers Co-
operative Abattoir and Bacon Factory, Ltd.,
Eastleigh, says :-——“There is no detrimental
effect Whatever on the meat and bacon.”
—-——9th December, 1921.

Messrs. J. Alpass & 00., Ltd., Berkeley,
Gloucestershire, who have used humane killers
on 70 to 100 pigs weekly for 10 years, state :m
“ Most of our products are sent away to the
Midlands, Wales and other parts of the
country. We cure for keeping as well as for
early consumption and the process of curing
varies according to requirements. According
to our books the Humane method in no way
affects ﬁnancial results as we get the usual
market prices for everything we sell, as a
matter of fact our business has increased.”—-—
23rd November, 1922.

Mr. G. E. Body, the Food and Meat
Inspector, Torquay, after a trial of the humane
killer on 18 beasts, 16 pigs, 8 calves and 45
sheep, reported that ”The meat kept as well,
and could not be detected from the meat of
animals which had. not been shot. The
market value of the organs was not affected
in any way.”—29th March, 1921.

Dr. R. E. Lauder, Medical aﬁcer of Health,
Southampton, states :-——“ ..... the Bye-
laws in connection with the slaughtering of
animals have been rigidly enforced in the
borough since 1919. The Humane Killer
stops the cruelties of the pole—axe and the
knife, allows slaughtering to be done with-
out pain, and there is no practical loss to the
butcher ...... ”~——26th October, 1922.

Bailie Brechin, Glasgow, one of the largest
butchers in the United Kingdom, writes :——-
”. . . . I can positively assert that the
carcases of beasts and sheep and calves are
not, in even the slightest degree, injuriously
affected by the use of the gun. I have given
to many of the most critical members of the
trade, opportunities for examining such, and
in not one single case have they discovered
any defect in quality or appearance.”—

November 16th, 1922.

From Mr. Thoming, Meat Inspector,
Borough of Plymouth.——” Since the byelaw
requiring the use of humane killers came
into force in April, 1918, considerably over
200,000 animals have been slaughtered here.
I have had no reason to complain as to the
condition of the meat, neither have I re-
ceived any complaints from the butchers."

3

 




 

“ HUMANE KILLING METHODS SPOIL THE MEAT.”
FACTS (continued).

SUPPORTING THIS ALLEGATION. AGAINST THIS ALLEGATION.

In the ‘ Lancet’ of 8th March, 1925, is
a statement by Dr. W. A. Berry, Medical
Ofﬁcer of Health, Bloemfontein, that the
humane killer has been used at the abattoir
there for II years on 51,723 bovines and
11,813 pigs, and that there has been no
complaints as to insufﬁcient bleeding or the
keeping quality of the meat,

BLOOD SPLASH IN PIGS.

The Medical ofﬁcer of Health, Corporation
of Brighton, writes :»—-“ We have no exper—

 

ience of blood splash in Brighton. Perhaps
due to the quickness with which the pigs are
stuck after they are shot this is avoided.
We slaughter on an average 250 to 300 pigs
at week.”

 

N .B.-———The above statement covers an
experience on a total of 20,000 pigs
slaughtered at the abattoir.

PUBLIG HEALTH.

An attempt having been made in some
quarter to raise a scare about humanely
killed meat. the R.S.P.C.A. addressed an
enquiry to the Minister of Health and
received the following reply: “He is
advised that it has not been shown that the use
of a mechanicatty operated instrument is
injurious to the public health.”

 

 

 

N.B.-——-—At the Hague (population 400,000)
humane killing has been compulsory since
1910. The death rate of the Hague in 1909
was 12.54. The death rate of the Hague
in 1923 was 9.41.

" HUMANE KILLERS ARE DANGEROUS.”

It can readily be understood that any lethal weapon is dangerous if placed in the
hands of a foolish or careless person———but such persons should not be allowed to
slaughter animals by any process. To guard against risks, the R.S.P.C.A., in supply—
ing these Humane slaughtering instruments, sends cards of very full directions,
urging that the greatest care should be exercised in their use. Experience has shown
that wherever these directions are carried out Humane Killers are perfectly safe
when used for their legitimate purpose. The London County Council state with
regard to their enquiry into the alleged accidents with humane killers, “ of the 15
cases, 5 were suicides, 2 men found shot, 1 alleged felonious shooting (accused
acquitted), I death of a boy aged 13, from misadventure, I fatal accident, 1 sus—
pected fatal accident, 4 accidents.”

4

.«r "‘4 "’#‘ t




 

 

“ HUMANE KILLERS ARE DANGEROUS ” (continued).

On the other hand, the pole-axe and the knife are also dangerous and liable to
cause accidents. At Holmwood (Surrey), a butcher had his leg broken in two places
while using a pole—axe, and a London Slaughterman, when sticking a sheep with a
knife, received a fatal injury. Accidents will always happen unless care is taken.
Moreover, it was found by the Magistrates in the Reading case of Dodd v. Jenner
“ that there is no material danger from a mechanically operated instrument if

properly used with ordinary care."
STATEMENTS.

In the ”Meat Trades’ Journal”
of the 26th January, 1922, an
accident to Mr. C., a butcher, while
using a Humane Killer was reported
and it was alleged that his hand and
wrist were badly damaged by the
back-ﬁre of the Humane killer..

Several other accidents—the Trade
claim hundreds—~(used as propa~
ganda against the improved
methods of slaughter) have been
reported.

FACTS.

In the same Journal, 2nd Feb.,
1922, was published a letter from
the Chief Secretary, R.S.P.C.A.
reporting the result of an interview
with the butcher concerned, from
which it appeared that the man had
unconsciously placed his hand over
the muzzle of the barrel and then
tried to force it home with the
result that the killer ﬁred and the
bullet penetrated his hand.

In each of these cases, as the result
of careful enquiry on the spot, it
has been found that the accidents
were caused either by carelessness
or by entirely ignoring the directions
supplied with the instruments.

Messrs. P. Elliot & Sons, Barnstaple,
in a letter to the “North Devon
Herald” wrote :-——“ After I 5 years use
of the Humane killer we consider
it a great improvement on the old
pole-axe, and if used with ordinary
care the risk is no greater. We
have never had'an accident or known
it to fail.”

Mr. James Dodds, late Superinten-
dent of the Public Slaughter House,
Garlisle, wrote, October, 1922 :~——
“ There are probably more accidents
with the pole-axe than with the
killer. I have known and seen
cases where the shaft of the axe has
caught the horn of the animal and
sent the head of the axe ﬂying through
the shop. I have also seen cases
when the animal has moved his head
as the axe has been descending and,
having missed the animal, the axe
has ﬂown from the operators' hands.
But we hear nething of these eases.
The probability of accidents to my
mind is greater with the axe than
with the killer."

Bailie Brechin, Glasgow, one of the
largest butchers in the United King-
dom, wrote :-—” Regarding danger in
the use of the gun, I strongly believe
that there is not the remotest risk of
danger in using it if the most elemen—
tary precaution is taken by the
operator. I hope for the coming of
the time when the gun will be in
general use.”——November 16th, 1922.

 




 

THE EFFICIENCY AND EXCELLENCE OF THE POLE-AXE AND KNIFE.

OPINION.

Mr. William Payne, Secretary of
the National Federation of Meat
Traders’ Associations, wrote ”Daily
Express,” July I 5th, 1922 :——The
so—called “Humane Killer” has
been demonstrated to be not a whit
superior to the much—maligned pole-
axe, and this 'is borne out by the
highest Scientiﬁc opinion available.
On the production of a mechani-
cally operated implement which can
be found to be as safe and
efﬁcient as the pole-axe, but with-
out detriment to the meat,* the
Federation would forthwith
recommend to the whole Trade
the adoption of such an implement.

*On this point the testimonials (and
they are only some of many received)
of experienced and actual users of
the instruments, should convince the
Federation—4f that body is open to
be convinced.

EXPERIENGE.

Mr. J. Dodds, late Superintendent of
Garlisle Abattoir, wrote October
1922. “ I shall not attempt to
harrow your feelings with sights
and sufferings I have seen on many
occasions when the hammer or pole-
axe are in use, but ask you in the
name of the swarms of animals
to put an end to all the suffering
that follows the old way of slaughter.”

Mr. M. Dennis, Barton Street,
Gloucester, thinks “it is the surest
and least painful way of killing, and
not in any way detrimental.”-—- May
24th, 1021.

Mr, W. Garrett, Westgate Street,
Gloucester, says :——“I trust I shall
never have to go back to the old
methods of slaughtering."-———23rd
May, 1921.

Messrs. J. Alpass & 00., ML, Berkeley,
find that “the Humane method saves
all pain to the animals."——-19th May,
1921.

iii-The General Manager of the Stroud
(lo-operative Society writes :——- “I
have seen revolting sights in telling
beasts, which cannot happen if a
Humane Killer is used.”———19th May,
1921.

Mr. J. Hobson, of the London
(to-operative Society, writes :——“ It
is an excellent instrument which
reduces pain and excitement to
a minimum . . . It ought to
be the law of the land that nothing
else should be used and the pole-
axe abolished.”—-—16th May, 1921.

Mr. H. Waliord, Dean Street,Bangor,
says: “ The very uncertainty of
the pole-axe (based on the fact that
even the most experienced butchers
are liable to fail) makes that instru—
ment, in my opinion, not only anti-
quated and obsolete, but inhuman.”
——19th May, 1921.

 

it is important to remember, when those interested in continuing
the use of the pole=axe are eloquent as to its efficiency and safety, that the
user of this lethal weapon has to become efﬁcient at the expense of his
v1ct1ms. Moreover more than half the animals intended for human con=
sumptlon, “the smalls ” as the trade calls them, have their throats cut by

the knife while fullv conscious.
not? .

The knife is seldom referred to——why

 

 




 

UNNECESSARY SUFFERING IN SLAUGHTER—HOUSES.

The ”Hornsey Journal" reported
(February 10th, 1922), a prosecution
against a slaughterman for un-
necessary cruelty to ﬁve pigs—one
of which, according to a witness
“tried to walk away” after the ﬁfth
blow. The defendant stated that
he stunned each pig with the ﬁrst
blow, but he always hit them three
or four times te make sure.

The ”Folkestone Herald” reported
December,1921, a pr osecution against
a local slaughterman, in which inci—
dentally the following statements
were madez—The defendant struck
the head of the cow with a pole-axe
four times. The Assistant
Inspector of Nuisances and Food
Inspector stated that ”when the
pole— axe was used in sixty per cent
of the cases the animal went down
after the ﬁrst blow.”

The son of a Hull butcher was
prosecuted by the Corporation fox
cruelty in the slaughter at two pigs.
Eyes were punctured and other injuries
caused to the animals’ ears and
neck.

Two men were convicted at
Walsall for cruelty to a cow which.
they were slaughtering. One witness
testiﬁed to the fact that there were
seven holes in the scull. Defendants
referred to "the ﬁnishing blah!!!”
——“Birmingham Gazette,” 28/8/21

”The Bath & Wilts Chronicle," 30th
Oct., 1922, reports a case of alleged
cruelty to a pig which the Magistrates
dismissed, as they did not consider
that “there had been wilful cruelty
or that there had been such careless—
ness as might be considered to
constitute cruelty.” One witness
stated that he ” saw seven blows struck
at the pig. On the next day when an
examination of the pig’s head was
made at the request of the owner,

six distinct holes were found.

The police constable stated in evidence
that when he drew the defendant’s
attention to the holes in the pig’s
head, the latter remarked, “that’s
nothing i I have seen ten blows given
elsewhere.”

Much is made of mis- -ﬁres, as instances
of suffering caused by Humane Killers
If such mis- -ﬁres occur the animal 15
not injured as the cartiidge has failed
to explode. If on the other hand
the animal is not brought down with
the ﬁrst shot, the fault lies with the
slaughterman who has been careless.

What happens with the remaining
forty per cent?

Mr. J. Dodds, late Superintendent of
Carlisle Abattoir, said :~— 1 have
seen three, four, five, and over
ten blows levelled at an animal
before it has been brought to the
giound, and l have known cases,
though these are exceptional, when:
all efforts have failed to bling the
animal. down through the repeated
blows having caused the head to swell,
and then a kn1fe has been run into the
spine at the back of the head, or
a bone laid ba1e by removing the skin
from the forehead, while the animal
has been. standing so that the weight
of the blow is got into the bare bone.
These are the things that the humane
killers are sweeping away.

In a report made by the Medical
Ofﬁcer of Health, the Veterinary
Surgeon and the Superintendent of
the Metropolitan Cattle Market to
the Health Committee of the City of
London Corporation, it states the
follcwing were the number of blows
required to produce unconsciousness
when the ordinary methods of
slaughter were used :———

IOO bulls required on an average 2 5o blows

I00 oxen .. n :1 I23 n
100 cows )1 n 1) [2'7 n
100 pigs n 155

In the case of the use of a mechani—
cally operated instrument it is stated
that out of a total of 190 animals,
which included bulls, steers, cows,
boars, sows, pigs and sheep, only 194
shots were required.

It must be borne in mind that
when the instrument fails, which, as
will be seen is very seldom, no
cruelty whatever is caused to the
animal.

 




 

UNNECESSARY SUFFERING IN SLAUGHTER-HOUSES.

Mr. A. Keight, Family Butcher, of
Norfolk Street, King’s Lynn, wrote ,——
“ I beg to thank you for your letter
dated September 11th. I was very
much impressed with the Cash
Captive Bolt Pistol. I think it is the
best machine invented yet, both from
a butcher’s point of View, being safe
for the user, and no bullet to injure
the meat.

Whilst in Adcock Green, I tried
the pistol on some lambs, and was
delighted with the result. I have
been slaughtering for over 20 years
and have used several types of
humane killers.”.__Sept. 16th, 1925.

lllr. William Roberts, Family
Butcher, of Chirbury Road, Mont-
gomery, wrote :——-” I have now been
using the R.S.P.C.A. Large Killer for
the past thirteen years. It has never
failed to do its work in a most efﬁcient
and painless manner. I should ﬁnd it
most difﬁcult to go back to the old.
method of slaughtering.

During the Whole time that the
Killer has been used in my slaughter—
house, I have never had any meat go
bad through its use. I thoroughly
believe in the Killer and have been
thinking to get a smaller instrument
to kill my animals.”—-]une, 192 5.

Mr. Hugh Jones, Llanfairfechan,
wrote : ——-“ I have much pleasure in
giving my unqualiﬁed approval of
the efﬁcacy of the ‘Humane Killer.’ I
have used it for IO years, and during
this period have had no mishaps of
any kind. I kill 40 to 50 animals
every Week and ﬁnd the killer
especially useful when I have a wild
or difﬁcu animal to kill. I think
the humane killer a splendid and
useful article—it should be made
compulsory—«in fact I feel sure be—
fore long all the younger men will
use it. It is only old-fashioned pre-
judice that prevents the universal
use of the humane killer."-——Ju1y
30th, 1925.

Mr. Wm. Davies, Hog Salesman, 68,
Giiurch Street, St. Helens, wrote :———
“ We use the Cash Captive Bolt
Pistol for all our fat pigs for pork
and curing purposes and am quite
satisﬁed with same, being much
more humane than pole axing.”-—-
December 17th, 1925.

-

 




-

 

._ A“‘?‘

a—* F

 

Mrs. Grace E. Howard Rollason,
Hampton Manor, Hampton-in-Arden,
Warwickshire, wrote :-~ I feel I
should like to express our thanks for
the very efﬁcient and instant way in
which our pigs were again destroyed
by the Humane Killer.

One cannot understand the blind
prejudice of many against this
method, for, if once tested, all; doubts
are ﬁnally dispelled.

I can only say we still have some
hams from pigs killed in this way 2
years ago, and they coultl not
possibly be better in quality, the
bacon being equally successful.

I need hardly add we never fail
to recommend the Humane Killer
wherever possible, and trust that it
may become compulsory in the near
future, and thus do away with the
cruelty and unnecessary suffering to
animals.”—-—Dec. 22nd, 1925.

The extracts given here, in direct contradiction to the allegations,
are only a few taken from a large number of testimonials from voluntary
users of the Humane Killers, and the objections made by those who are
constantly in opposition can only be due, in the words of one large meat
trader, who has used the instrument for twelve years, to “Prejudice.”

We do not claim—mar have we ever stated this—that the meat
traders’ are voluntarily cruel or desirous of inflicting unnecessary pain,
but the attitude of our opponents encourages suffering which is totally
unnecessary—the remedy is simple. All we ask is that all animals shall

be “Eﬁectually stunned by a mechanically operated instrument suitable
and sufficient for the purpose.”

Full particulars and literature dealing with this most important
subject will be sent, gratis, on application to T HE CHIEF SECRETARY,

ROYAL SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY T0 ANEMALS,
105, JERMYN STREET, LONDON, S.W.l.

 

THE HUMANE SLAUGHTER 0F ANIMALS.
Reprinted from the General Service of the M mrstry of Agriculture .'
September 182%, I920.

“It cannot be too widely known that the Ministry of Agriculture is
deeply concerned that the slaughter of animals should be humane. Since
the Commission, over which the present Minister of Agriculture presided,
sat in 1904, there has been a steady awakening of the public conscience
and a deﬁnite improvement in our methods of slaughter, but much remains

9

 




 

 

to be done and the best efforts of the R.S.P.C.A., and the Council of Justice
to Animals, to name only two associations that seek to deal with the matter,
have not availed to introduce into England the Abattoir System which
prevails on the Continent and has done so much to make slaughtering
humane.

We have in our midst to-day thousands of private slaughter—houses
over which the supervision is demonstrably unsatisfactory and incomplete,
and the Ministry is making a determined effort to impress upon butchers
throughout the country the advisability on all grounds of killing by humane
methods. While it is admitted that the pole-axe in the hands of a skilled
man is most effective, we have to remember that all who handle that
weapon must become skilled by practice. The ordinary methods of killing,
especially in the ”case of calves and pigs, leave much to be desired on the
score of humanity, and now the Minister has issued instructions that all
Inspectors in the Ministry’s employment are to see that slaughtering on
account of outbreaks of disease is carried out humanely, and by the aid
of. either humane killers, or, in suitable cases, shot guns, with the approval
of the Treasury, nearly 300 humane killers, together with the necessary
ammunition, have been purchased for the use of Inspectors. Explicit
instructions have been issued that all ofﬁcers—mpermanent or temporary-—
who are compelled to slaughter animals (as in cases of Foot and Mouth
Disease) are to employ the most humane methods. Ofﬁcers are further
charged to see that any butchers employed by them are to observe the same
principles. The Minister has further given instructions that all ofﬁcers
of the Ministrympermanent or temporary— are to regard themselves as
propagandists of humane methods of slaughter throughout the country,
and the main principle to be kept in View by all concerned. is that every
animal should be properly stunned before it is bled. . . The widest
publicity is sought for these principles of humane treatment of animals
so long neglected in this country from a variety of causes, and it is to be
hoped that people who ﬁnd themselves in agreement with the View taken
by the Ministry, that animals must be spared all unnecessary suffering,
will themselves become propagandists on behalf of dumb creation and will
appeal to the butchers who supply them to take steps to come into line
with those whose practice is humane. It is only by the united action of all
who are concerned with the proper treatment of our livestock that improve-
ment in the bad existing conditions can be brought about.”

 

HUMANE SLAUGHTER 0F ANIMALS:
SATISFACTORY DEVELOPMENTS.

Reprinted from the same publication, 5th M arch, 1921.

“In the Autumn of last year (20th October), a circular was addressed
by the Ministry of Agriculture to local Authorities throughout the .Upltfid
Kingdom asking them to enforce in all slaughter houses within their Juris—
diction theuse of what is known as the ‘Humane Killer.’ It is well under-
stood that there are several of these on the market and one adopted ofﬁClauY
by the Ministry of Agriculture is by Messrs. Greener of Birmmgham-

10

 

 




 

‘h"~_. .7

It is a pistol ﬁring a .22 hollow~nosed bullet in cartridges, long and short,
and is capable of stunning sheep and pigs of anything up to 24 stone. A
special instrument which can be operated quite safely on any animal that
has been duly roped is also in use for bulls, cows and bullocks, and recently
when a bull was dropped by a single effort of this weapon a skilled slaughter-
man who saw the operation for the ﬁrst time said that it might have
required as many as ten strokes of the pole—axe to bring such an animal
down. In this brief but suggestive statement those who are interested
in the claims of every sentient creature to a minimum of consideration
at the hands of man will ﬁnd ample justiﬁcation for the effort that is being
made to put an end to an appalling amount of unnecessary cruelty. We
may remember that nearly two and a half million beasts are slaughtered
in England every year, that the men who wield a pole-axe skilfully are
in the minority and that all beginners must, or rather do, learn by actual
practice on living animals.

The Ministry notes with satisfaction that a considerable measure of
success has followed its ﬁrst appeal, which it should be remembered is merely
a plea for the adoption of Clause 9 B. of the Model Byelaws of the Ministry
of Health. The demand for Humane Killers is spreading in every direction
Men engaged in slaughtering have welcomed the latest models and in many
cases have stated that they are delighted to be able to go through their
work without being forced to resort to the crudities of the more familiar
methods. . . . Much remains to be done. . . . but the measure
of accomplishment justiﬁes the Ministry in hoping that the time is near
at hand when the conscience of every recalcitrant authority will be moved
and a condition of things for which there is today no possible excuse will
become no more than an ugly memory.”

 

“ Nobody with a spark of humanity can fail to wish that; the
vast army of animals slaughtered every year for the nation’s food should
be killed with the minimum of avoidable suffering. And nobody, who
has studied the evidence, can doubt that a great deal of avoidable
suffering is inﬂicted in slaughter—houses today. It is one of the shadows
in the background of our civilisation which few people like to think about
more than they need, but for which we cannot escape responsibility by
evasron.

To minimise pain it is necessary to stun every animal before blood is
drawn. But where no byelaws regulate the matter, sheep, lambs, and
small pigs are not usually stunned at all. Bullocks, calves, and larger
pigs are, as a rule, stunned by a hand-driven implement—a poleaxe or a
club—which, just because it is hand-driven, is liable to go astray and
cause hideous suffering. It has long been obvious that nothing but a
mechanical implement, acting with the infallibility of the machine and
reducing the risk of manual error to the smallest dimensions, can entirely
be relied on for humane results.

Such mechanisms began to come into use before the end of the 19th
century, but in their early forms they were, naturally, imperfect. By
degrees they were improved, and in January, I915, the Local Government
Board had satisﬁed itself that a ‘humane killer can be got which is
adapted for stunning any kind of animal, reasonable in cost, and effective

and simple in operation.’ It, therefore, included in the Model Byelaws
then issued the one which we are now discussing. During the War, it
was, of course, not easy to make changes, but since then the

11

 




byelaw has come very widely into force, especially in Southern England.
By the end of last month it had been adopted by 226 local authorities for
private slanghterh-onses, and by six for their public abattoirs. The list
included such great authorities as the London County Council, Bristol,
Plymouth, Portsmouth, Brighton, Southampton, Ipswich, besides many
others of the standing ot Eastbourne, Cambridge, Chatham, Exeter,
T aunton, and Winchester. A curious feature, however, of this movement,
is that, while it goes very far to cover the South of England, it has, as
yet, only one or two small footholds in the North. The difference does
not seem explicable on any practical ground. If humane slaughtering is
feasible in the South, it is feasible in the North; and it is not to the
North’s credit that it should lag behind. An occasion is now afforded for
Manchester, which has been the starting point of so many reforms, to set
an enlightened example to its neighbours. Let us hope that it will
embrace the opportunity, and that the great cities of Yorkshire and the
north—east coast will join in.

The use of the humane killer has been opposed by some as dangerous,
and by others as tending to spoil the meat. There is now an overwhelming
weight of evidence against both objections. The real motive for opposition
among slaughtermen seems to be simply the handicraftsmen’s conserva—
tive opposition to a machine—a natural one, but not, in the circumstances,
one which should prevail.” [Italics own]

From a leading article in the Daily Chronicle, 25th Sept, 1925.

Issued by the R.S.P.C.A., 705, Jermyn Street, London, S.W.1.

Mears 037' Caldwell, Ltd., Printers, London, S.W.9q

 




