HOSPITALS IN DANGER.

 

THE medical papers are at last awaking to the fact that the
hospitals are in danger of becoming disestablished and
disendowed. The British Medical Journal demands to know
what is the aim of the agitation against human vivisection?
and the Hospital asks, “Is a catastrophe impending?” and
declares that “there are not wanting indications of collapse
in the resources which maintain the work of hospitals."
Neither of the journals to which we refer has courage to face
the fact that subscriptions to the hospitals are falling off, and
public conﬁdence is beginning to withdraw itself from our great
hospitals because it is more than feared—it is actuall
recognised—that these institutions, which should hold the
highest place in the estimation of a philanthropic people, are
rapidly being diverted from their original purpose to become
mere educational institutions, valuable, doubtless, from that
point of view, but on such grounds necessarily occupying a far
lower position in public esteem than the ideal charities which
the Christian world has hitherto considered them. “The
collapse of the hospitals,” says the journal particularly devoted
to their interests, “ would affect at least four classes of persons
and interests—(a) Male and female workers and those who
are dependent upon them ; (1)) hospital ofﬁcials who earn their
bread by the services they render to hospitals ; (c) the medical
'men and students who increase their experience or learn the
practical details of their art at hospitals; (cl) those benevolent
persons whose minds dispose them to the maintenance of
hospitals as a wise method of charity and duty.” These four
classes are exhorted to “rouse themselves to a full compre-
hension of the dangers of the situation.” We can readin
understand the dangers of the situation for the hospital
ofﬁcials, medical men, students, and others, who are interested
in the impending catastrophe. We remember “ a certain man
named Demetrius, a Silversmith, who made silver shrines for
Diana, and brought no small gain unto the craftsmen, whom
he called together with the workmen of like occupation and
said, ‘ Sirs, ye know that by this craft we have our wealth.’ ”
The hospital system as at present worked brings no small gain
to an army of ofﬁcials and pupils whose claims would seem to
be paramount in the estimation of the Hospital, for although
it insists much on the interests of three classes of individuals
who would suffer by a break up of the hospital system, it does
not include any reference to the patients.

 




It is possible that ﬁnancial depression, affecting as it does
all classes of the people, has much to do with the falling-off in
hospital subscriptions, but the authorities will deceive them-
selves grievously if they leave out of sight the remarkable and
rapidly-extending anti-vivisection movement which, more than
anything else, arrests the hand of the charitable on its way to
the cheque-book and purse, and compels the humane to ask
whether the support of hospitals as at present conducted is
indeed “ a wise method of charity and duty.” The fact that
many, if not most, of the medical men attached to our great
hospitals are either vivisectors themselves or in sympathy with
vivisection is becoming recognised by the humane, tender—
hearted people who are in the habit of subscribing to charities.
Can the authorities wonder that our friends and sympathizers
are growing daily more and more suspicious of hospitals,
knowing as they do that the physiological laboratory always
ﬁnds a prominent place hard by the hospital ward, and that
the animal torturer of the morning is too often the theatre-
operator of the afternoon ? The vivisector, however great his
skill and distinction, is never safe to be trusted with a hospital
patient on an operating table and a tray of knives at his side.
He may do nothing but what is right and necessary for his
patient; he may, on the other hand, be tempted “to mount
his hobby,” as a writer in The British Medical Journal
(July 14, 1883, p. 60) once recommended, “and see who will
ride furthest and best. Should any one, in his eagerness,
deviate on to the forbidden ground of vivisection, his good
intentions and the warning afforded to others shall serve to
absolve him.” No doubt such a human vivisector would be,
and is actually, very readily absolved by his colleagues ; but he
and they will soon be compelled to recognise that neither the
working classes—whose bodies are the material out of which
the experimenter constructs his hobby horse—nor the benevo-
lent people—“ largely composed of ladies,” many of whom are
also " faddists” “ sentimentalists ” and the like, to whom the
hospital treasurers appeal so earnestly for subscriptions—will
long continue to absolve the hospital vivisector of men and
women when they have long ago condemned with uttermost
abhorrence the vivisector of animals. Let the hospitals cast
out their vivisectors and their sympathizers, and let the true
followers of the Great Physician take their places, and there
will be no lack of subscript-ions to hospitals conducted on
Christian principles.

 

Published by the VICTORIA STREET SOCIETY FOR THE PROTECTION OF
ANIMALS FROM VIVISECTION, UNITED WITH THE INTERNATIONAL Asso-
CIATION FOR THE TOTAL SUPPRESSION OF VIVISECTION, 90, VICTORIA
STREET, WESTMINSTER, LONDON, S.W. ~ 2.95.

 




