 

 

 

 

 

 

CHTDBER,1937. 0.

UMANE

IFE

QUARTERLY)

 




 

CONTENTS.

The First Step (VIL)

150,000 EX-Soldiers Pray for Peace.

Cancer.

The Way of Dogs.

The Attitude of the Clergy.
Blood Foods.

God of Love? or God of Wrath.
HThe Song of the Shafts.”

Cats.

Books.

Correspondence.

Better Watch Dogs.

Symposium.

49
54
55
59
60
64
65
68
70

’71

74
76
77

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

    

\ 7'

,‘l %7..:"'0f “; . it; -
M“? l.‘ 1»\‘\\\'\ , /
“ I/ 7;

a; «4

     

“ii?-

 

 

 

 

HUMANE LIIFE

OCTOBER, 1937.

 

The First Step.

VII.

HE waste involved in the meat-eating system is enormous,
T both wholesale and in detail. Not in the food alone, but
also in the tremendous loss caused by the misuse of the

land, and the unhealthy distribution of the population.

A walking tour amid some of our ﬁnest country scenery must
be limited to the dusty roads bounded by high hedges. One may
lean on a ﬁve-barred gate and see great stretches of pasture land
with a warning notice close by of HTrespassers beware.” For
miles nearly all the inhabitants of these country lands are oxen
and sheep. Men, women and children are rarely seen. except
when they come occasionally to tend the cattle. That arrangement
is rendered necessary by the demands of the meat-eaters.

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

50 HUMANE LIFE

Were those ﬁelds devoted to the raising of cereals, fruit and
vegetables, the peOple who have been obliged to leave in large
numbers to seek their living in the towns would be scattered over
these lands in pleasant homesteads, living healthy lives in the open
air and sunshine and occupied in raising the vegetarian foods.
Now they live crowded together in the poorer parts of cities, and
occupied in less healthy work: and, if not engaged in, at least
they have to live in the midst of cattle markets, slaughter-houses
and butchers’ shops. A larger demand for vegetarian diet would
tend to an automatic solution of the slum problems ; and both the
consumer and the producer would beneﬁt in health.

At present we have to get from abroad quantities of grain,
fruit, eggs, butter, etc., much of which could be produced at home,
and, in doing so we send a large amount of money to support
foreign labour instead of our own. Sir Henry Thompson in his
Food and Feeding says z—u It is a fair computation that every acre
of land devoted to the production of meat is capable of becoming
the source of three or four times the amount of produce of
equivalent value as food, if devoted to the production of grains.”

Mr. W. Hoyle stated before the Manchester Statistical Society
that a shilling’s worth of ﬂour or oatmeal or fruit or selected
vegetables would give as much nourishment as ﬁve shillings worth
of meat.

Lord Playfair, M.D., F.R.S., showed that a composition of
cheese, bread, oatmeal and vegetables will furnish the body with
all the proteid matter necessary, at a cost four times less than
meat, without the deleterious effects which the latter produces.

Dr. F. R. Lees in An argument on behalf of the Primitive Diet
of Man, says :—”T here is nothing in the organised tissue of the
animal which was not in the plant, save the excrementitious elements
of itself. As a matter of clear calculation, to select a medium

 




 

 

 

HUMANE LIFE 51

example, it can be shown that £3 worth of wheat would restore as
much of the waste of the body as 2612 worth of English beef.”

Dr. W. B. Richardson, F.R.S., wrote :———“ Taking the value of
foods as estimated by their solid character, there is a large class of
vegetable foods which for solid value are incomparably superior to
animal ﬂesh. It must be honestly admitted that, weight by weight,
vegetable substance-s, when carefully selected, possess the most
striking advantage over animal food in nutritive value.

Food is wasted in many ways. Ten pounds of barley given to
pigs would provide a greater amount of nourishment if used
properly than is in the 3 or 4 lbs. of pork produced.

The poor suffer, as, to supply their demand, some of the worst
meat in the market is utilized. It is disguised in the shape of
saveloys, black puddings, meat pies and sausages, highly seasoned;
and, from the unsavoury fried ﬁsh shops and bars and the barrows
of oyster and other shell ﬁsh dealers, the inhabitants of the East
End and similar poorer parts of London and other large towns get
badly served.

The subject is, at times, argued too much on side issues and
false bases. The main issue is clear enough. Nature’s plan is
best; and, in other matters, it is generally admitted that, if we
break Nature’s laws, we are likely to suffer. Man seems to be the
only animal living on foods not natural to him. When one’s dog
is sick, the veterinary surgeon ﬁrst asks HWhat have you been
feeding him on ?” Why should it not also be admitted in the
case of man that his illnesses are probably due, in the majority of

‘ cases, to unnatural diet P

But, say some, man has reason and the lower animals have
only instinct. Man’s reason was hardly given to enable him to set
aside a great law of healthy existence. The results of his doing so

 

 




 

 

52 HUMANE LIFE

are bad enough; and, even if it were only on that account, his
reason should be used to keep him in the right path. Meat eating
has not prevented the existing wholesale suffering from dyspepsia,
gout, etc. Why, if it is such a good thing, is there an enormous
demand for physic?

Some correspondents have written to the Editor that there
should be no reference to religion in discussing diet. The facts
are the same whatever a man’s religion. Still, as a matter of
history alone there are important lessons to be learnt.

Among Christians there are of course true and false ; and of
the latter there are not few who do as they like, avoid duties if
distasteful and then go to the Bible to ﬁnd texts in justiﬁcation.
It is not right to rely on texts, especially when these are isolated,
as guides to food any more than as guides to drink or dress.
Things permitted to people of a less advanced age or to the hard
of heart may be wrong for those who can learn lessons more suited
to a later age. That Christ ate ﬁsh on one occasion and drank
wine does not impose on us the duty of eating what is proved to
be productive of disease to ourselves, degradation of the men,
women and children employed in the slaughter house, and gross
, cruelty to the animals. Christ laid down the principle that the
original state of things was better than that which was afterwards
permitted. ” In the beginning it was not so.” What was in the
beginning as regards man’s food is stated in Gen. i. 29, viz :—
“ Behold I have given you every herb bearing seed which is upon
the face of all the earth, and every tree in the which is the fruit of
a tree yielding seed ; to you it shall be for meat.”

Isolated texts may easily be masapplied. Dean Farrar in his
“ Eternal Hope " says : “ I protest at once and ﬁnally against this
ignorant tyrrany of isolated texts which has ever been the curse of
Christian truth, the glory of narrow intellects, and the cause of the

 




 

 

 

HUMANE LIFE 53

worst 'errors of the worst days of the corrupted Church. . . . The
devil, as we all know, can quote texts for his purpose.”

Daniel and his companions, who lived on pulse and water,
were “ fairer and fatter in ﬂesh than all the children that did eat
the portions of the King’s meat.” The food of John the Baptist
was the locust bean and wild honey. It was not ﬁsh and ﬂesh
that Christ ate at the last supper but bread and wine, Le. fruit and
corn; and He said HThis do in remembrance of me.” We are
told by St. Clement of Alexandria, St. Augustine and Eusebuis that
the immediate disciples of Christ, St. Matthew, St. James and St.
Peter abstained from ﬂesh food. Much in Christ’s teaching and
action indicated the probability of His being of the sect of the
Essenes, who were abstainers from meat food.

The story of Creation opens with a prospect of man’s living
healthily on the fruits of the earth; and the New Testament
closes with a vision of a return to that same arrangement.

0B0 a0 OEDOCE°

How the Habit is Formed.

“ Now, Bobby, eat up your meat or you shall not have any
pudding."

 




 

 

 

 

54 HUMANE LIFE

150,000 Ex—Soldiers Pray for
Peace.

FROM Lourdes a correspondent of the HBournemouth Daily
Echo” (12th September, 1936) wrote :—
“ Less than 30 miles from the war-racked territory of Spain,
150,000 eX-soldiers are praying for peace.

France, Germany, Britain, Italy and many other nations are
represented in this great pilgrimage, including a strong contingent
of Canadians. This is the third pilgrimage of its kind.

There was a touching scene when a group of German
eX—soldiers arrived. As soon as they reached the platform they
were warmly embraced by French comrades. who had come in
large numbers to meet them. Father Raber—-who headed the
group and who was a member of the 1934 pilgrimage—was so moved
that, with tears in his eyes, all he could say was : HMerci, merci.”

The whole city is beﬂagged, triumphal arches have been
raised, and beautiful ﬂowers have been arranged round the war
memorial.

Many war widows and sons and daughters of ex-soldiers have
come with the pilgrims.”

6:9




HUMANE LIFE 55

Cancer.

N spite of proof that vivisection, as Dr. Lawson Tait said, leads
to uhorrible bungling,” the cruel experiments go on. In
cancer research, hundreds of thousands of mice have suffered

severely in the attempt to produce in them conditions similar to
those of human cancer. Mustard gas, soot, tar, arsenic, X-rays,
unnatural foods and other irritants were tried.

Of these experiments, Dr. Hastings Gilford wrote in the
British Medical Journal in 1934 : HAfter a third of a century of
intensive experimental research by all the great civilized nations,
we are told by those best qualiﬁed to judge that there is no more
prospect of clearing away the mystery of the origin of cancer than
there is of answering the riddle of the origin of life or indeed of
perpetual motion or of squaring the circle.”

At times in the leading daily papers there have been large
headings announcing that, at last, a cure has been found. Then
followed a considerable sale of some nostrum which failed badly
and soon disappeared.

Some things tried were useless as cures, but proved of service
in alleviating pain, e.g.—violet leaves, eucalyptus leaves, clover,
honey, formalin.

Of the causes of cancer it has been thought that hot drinks,
especially tea, germs, smoking, constipation, swampy land, etc.,
may be causes ; but they were found to be of no use for a general
statement,

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

56 HUMANE LIFE

As far back as 400 B.C. it was suggested that bad digestion
might be a cause. Since then many authorities have discussed the
very reasonable theory that wrong feeding has had, at least, a
large share in the causation of cancer. Worry, anxiety, over-work
and the rush of modern city life are probably minor contributory
causes.

Among others, Dr. 1. Round and Dr. Hoffman have suggested
that a rough estimate of the death rate of any country may be
correlated with its consumption of ﬂesh food. The Head Physician
of the New York Cancer Hospital remarked that the ratio of
cancer and of ﬂesh eating run almost parallel. '

The statistics published by the Registrar General show that
the deaths from cancer among women are as many in the stomach
and alimentary tract as the total of all other parts of the body ;
and that in men there are twice as many deaths due to cancer of
the alimentary tract as in all other parts of the body.

One of the latest developments of this idea is that it is (as Dr.
Allinson says) essentially the protein molecule derived from animal
tissues which produces disease. Protein is the chief constituent of
ﬂesh food: and herein is probably a solution of the mystery of
the cause of cancer.

Very numerous and strongly indicative of this are the statistics
showing that in countries where little meat is eaten cancer is at a
minimum, and in countries where much meat is eaten cancer is
very prevalent.

In India there are hundreds of millions of people who do not
eat meat or who eat it very little and rarely ; and, in the
Government Vital Statistics, the mortality is recorded under the
main heads, fever, cholera, dysentry, plague, etc., but cancer is not
one of them.

On the other hand, in England, France. Belgium, Germany,




HUMANE LIFE 57"

 

Holland, and the United States there is much meat eating and
much cancer. And both are on the'increase. Even in Australia
and New Zealand where the climate is ﬁne and there is no over-
crowding or slums and the people ought to be very healthy (as the
cattle are) the ﬁnest beef and mutton are eaten freely and there is
a high death rate from cancer.

 

 

Dr. Halliday of the Indian Medical Service in recording his
experiences in the North West Provinces and Punjaub said that
there were only three cases of cancer in his twenty-two years’
experience. The diet of the people consists of whole meal ﬂour,
maize, millet, dhal (pulse), milk, ghi (butter), sugar and condiments.

 

Dr. E. Tipper made extensive inquiries in Africa and decided
that the two most potent factors suspected of inducing cancer are
constipation and excessive flesh eating ; “ for where they are
present,” he writes, H cancer is rife ; where they are absent, there
is none.”

In Denmark the Danes eat rich meat food, in Argentina much
meat food is produced, and in China the Chinese drink hot drinks
and eat much ﬂesh food, especially pork. In those countries the
death rate from cancer is heavy.

 

Cats, dogs and birds die of cancer; but animals not
carnivorous, such as the monkey, are immune. Even trees are
subject to the disease when growing in polluted swampy ground
and fertilized with animal manure.

A reply has been made that the Eskimo, though living much
on animal food, suffers little from cancer. This would be a valid
argument but for the fact that Eskimos do not, as a rule, live to
more than what we call middle age. Cancer is a disease of later
life when the results of wrong feeding have accumulated.

The suffering to animals and mankind due to the eating of

 

 

 




58 HUMANE LIFE
ﬂesh—slaughtering, vivisection and cancer—has been and is
appalling.

As remarked in “ The Medical World ” :—-“ Cancer research,

conducted over a long period and at enormous expense, has
entirely failed to bring about a reduction in the death rate from
this terrible disease.”

Baron Moynihan, for six years President of the Royal College
of Surgeons. was at one time a vivisector; but he became an
advocate of clinical observation as opposed to vivisection ; and in
1930 he said that a large amount of new knowledge had been
gained with barely recognizable assistance from the laboratory.

Dr. R. Williams wrote in the ” British Medical Journal” that,
if he were asked to deﬁne the conditions of existence which are
unfavourable to the development of cancer, he would reply extra
frugality in living, open-air existence, and, last but not least, an
alimentation which includes but little of animal food.

 

In 1933, Sir William Arbuthnot Lane said “ Everyone can
avoid cancer who is prepared to keep internally clean by eating
natural foods and drinking plenty of water.”

Prevention is better than cure ; and in this case no cure can
be found. To live safely and honourably by avoiding the cruelly
obtained and dirty food of the meat eater will help us to avoid the
miseries of cancer.

[Note that the views expressed in this article are those of
leading medical men]

023030 cacao

 

 

 

 




HUMANE LIFE 59

The Way of Dogs.

ADOG will serve his master be fortune good or bad,
And follow him as faithfully in dark days as in glad,
Should sudden danger threaten he’ll give his life to save,
And if his master perish he’ll watch beside his grave——
For that’s the way of dogs.

Some men will capture friendless dogs, and then inoculate

Their blood with foul diseases, or their organs mutilate,

They call such tortures “ Science,” and say that very soon

They may discover something that to men will be a boon——
’Tis the vivisectors’ way.

Some folks assert that dogs are far below the human race,

And so to vivisect them is really no disgrace;

They talk about “ necessity,” and say no rights belong

To weak defenceless creatures, but only to the strong——
For that’s the coward’s way.

I wish that either dogs could be less loving and less true,

And cease to give their lives for men in the splendid way they do,

Or else that Man, who thinks himself so mighty wise and ﬁne,

Would try to bring his thoughts and ways a little more in line
With the noble way of dogs.

——(Enfield News Sheet).

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

60 HUMANE LIFE

The Attitude of the Clergy.

EVERAL writers have charged the ministers of Churches of
S all kinds with apathy regarding the sufferings inﬂicted on
animals. The charge is correct to a large extent if the
minor clergy are meant, for they are generally silent in presence
of the protest or they may protest mildly and ineffectively. We
hear, too, of the sporting parson and of clergymen who speak
contemptuously of the anti-vivisectionists.

No general statement can be made that the Church is
indifferent to the current torture. There are many—very many—-
of the leaders who strongly protest. Their protest is now so great
that, taken with the emphatic condemnation by eminent scientists
and medical men, it is extraordinary that the legislature cannot or
will not act in the matter.

There is a change of attitude for the better going on. For
instance it could hardly happen to-day that an Archbishop and
several bishops could vote, as was done in 1310, for the inﬂiction
of the death penalty for a theft of ﬁve shillings. Nor would
tolerance be given to the opinion of the Bishop who, some years
ago, justiﬁed the cruelty of vivisection on the ground that
innumerable creatures are daily done to death without anaesthetics
for our food or for sport.

To-day Dean Inge says that the clerical profession has been

 

'b
O




.9

.c‘

HUMANE LIFE 61
lamentably remiss in not preaching our ethical obligations to the
lower animals.

How is it that most of the clergy, with all the misery and
cruelty round them, can preach their elegant and soul—stirring

sermons and then go home and eat the corpses of the tortured‘

animals that should have been their care P

About ﬁfty years ago, Dr. Moorhouse, Bishop of Manchester,
preached a sermon in which he said :——u If a man could hear,
with cold blood and callous heart, the cry of the poor dog which
was suffering tortures caused and continued by the experimenter,
that man must become more hardened and brutal in character. If
such a man urged the selﬁsh plea “I am torturing the lower
creatures for the advantage of man,” he (the Bishop) replied by
asking “Who gave him the right to do any such thing?” He
said he would rather die a hundred times than save his life by
such infernal experiments.”

In 1930 a chaplain called the statement that the fox enjoys
the hunt “ the feeblest rot I have ever heard.” He told of a fox
which had taken refuge in a cottage chimney. A ﬁre was lighted
to bring it out. ” They call it sportsmanship.” he commented.
“ Stags are chased over hill and dale with their lungs bursting. It
is a ﬁlthy, vile cruelty which should be stopped at once.”

Rev. Campbell Morgan Visited the Chicago stockyards and in
a sermon said :--"I feel that no man could work perpetually in
this atmosphere without being brutalized ; and I was told after-
wards that there were justices in thatneighbourhood who had
declined to take the evidence of some of these men when they
knew their employment.”

In “Arrows in the Air,” Rev. H. R. Haweis, M.A. :—
“ Look at the delicacy you will ﬁnd in nearly every dining room,
the ”. pate de foie gras.” I see from the sensation that you have

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

62 HUMANE LIFE

never heard that mentioned in a Church before. My friends, it is
high time then that it was said. Well I I would not eat “ paté dc
foie gras ” for love or money. I say it is an abominable wasteful
cruelty you are indulging in every time you buy that condiment. . .
. . . The wretched birds are ﬁrst stuffed and artiﬁcially diseased,
and then, poor creatures, hundreds and thousands of them,
annually, are roasted, slowly, agonizingly roasted to death. Do
you think it would be well to go home and encourage such vile
and wasteful cruelty as that ? ”

These pioneers of last century were sterling divines who,
against public opinion, sought to rouse men, from their apathy and
to make them recognize the need for more kindliness to animals.
They bore the brunt of the struggle for reform; and to-day it is
for us, and especially for their fellow clergy, to maintain the ﬁght
to a successful issue. '

John. Wesley was another. His principle was that we should
do to every animal whatsoever as we would be done by. Unfor-
tunately his followers of to-day are not all of that opinion, as was
recently shown in the journal “ Young Methodism.”

In the United States the humane movement is being strongly
advocated by the clergy, e.g., the Rev. R. M. Hunter, D.D., of
Alabama.

The most encouraging proof that the leaders of the clergy are
now awake to the serious character of the cruelty of blood sports.
butchery and vivisection is to be found in the long list of Bishops
and other leaders who have lately vigorously denounced it. Some
may be mentioned here :—

Bishops Barry, Philips Brook, Westcott, Bagshawe, Mac-
Karness, Harold Browne ; Archdeacon Wilberforce ; Canon
Liddon ; Prebendary H. N. Greer ; Deans Kitchen, I. W. Leigh,
Vaughan, Stanley; Cardinals Stephen, Manning, Newman; Father

 




 

 

HUMANE LIFE 63

Ignatius; and the Reverends Stopford Brooke, Newman Hall,
Hugh Price Hughs, A. R. Lilley, C. H. Spurgeon, Dr. Talmadge,
Dr. Welldon.

The clergy of highest standing have, therefore, protested very
strongly.

°E>OCE° °EOCEZ°

OX Roasting.

HE following letter in support of Mr. F. VVyatt’s protest
against ox roasting appeared in HThe West Middlesex
Gazette.”—

“ In one part of India there is an annual religious ceremony at
which a live ox is torn to pieces by the crowd. The worshippers
then return home satisﬁed that their goddess has been propitiated.

In Ealing is there not a parallel to this in the ox roasting?
The poor animal has probably been cruelly killed; and, though
the crowd with the eminently respectable traditions referred to by
Mr. Wyatt have not themselves torn the animal to pieces. they
have employed others to do so. Why follow up the miserable
business with gloating over the roasting of the carcase. They can
show their eminently respectable sympathies by subscribing direct
to the funds of the “ King Edward Memorial Hospital.” There is
no bad goddess to propitiate in this case. If there were there
might be some excuse for them,”

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

64 HUMANE LIFE

Blood Foods.

Contributed by W. DOUGLAS.

N a curious, yet entertaining article in the Christmas number of
“ Chamber’s Journal,” 1936, entitled “ Shops and Shop
Windows,” there is the following :—

“ What poet is it who sings :—
‘ I can’t abide the butcher,
‘I can’t abide his meat’ . . . . P
There is unquestionably something abhorrent in the spectacle
of animals hanging by their heels, destroyed to keep us alive ; and
yet it is difﬁcult to see how hard work and the rigours of our
particular latitude could be supported without the aid of blood
foods. Will the butcher gradually be eliminated by the advance
of science and humaner ideas? I once spent several months with
a vegetarian. He left a lucrative post at the Admiralty to study
for the ministry, and gave up meat because it destroyed for him
the only existing link of fellowship he had with the animal
creation. He was certainly a convincing exponent of his own
creed. Every morning he rose at six and ran two miles, rain or
shine. Next followed a bath, breakfast of porridge and stewed
fruit, and sixteen hours of intense intellectual toil. Physically he
was perfect, and, in spiritual things, a real leader of men. He
now occupies a professorial chair.”

Shocking words Hblood foods.” Ominous, if, as has been
said. diseases of the body are more or less represented in the
blood.

But it is right to add that elsewhere in the journal there is an
article entitled “What we eat, we are,” in which there’are
assertions of some of the common beliefs as to animal food.




HUMANE LIFE 65

God of Love? or God of Wrath?

L. STRATFORD HOUGHTON.

IT is very difﬁcult, in these days of comparative kindness to our
fellow men, to realise that mankind ever believed in a God
whom they called a “ Loving Father” and yet whom they
thought was most pleased (and most appeased of anger) when men
burnt some innocent maiden at the stake as an “ offering.”

The people of those days so completely failed to realise that
the greatest of all wrongs is cruelty. When they had been guilty
of living more wrongfully than usual and some national catastrophy
betbll them which they considered to be a punishment from God,
they tried to make amends by being guilty of the greatest wrong
of all, i.c., cruelty, and thought that in some way that would please
and appease God.

It would be about as logical to add fuel to a ﬁre in an effort
to put it out, instead of adding something which is the opposite of
ﬁre, such as water. When suffering as a consequence of wrong-
living, the remedy must be to be less guilty of wrong living, rather
than to be guilty of a greater wrong.

It should be obvious that just as we can only overcome dirt
by means of cleanliness; foolishness by wisdom; ugliness by
beauty ; so we can only overcome cruelty by means of an increase
of kindness. Human qualities tend to level up, as between one
individual and another, just as do the individual spots of water in

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

66 HUMANE LIFE

a basin. The entry of kind people into a community of cruel
people tends to soften the cruel people; and the entry of cruel
people into a group of kindly folks tends to harden the kind folks.

Strangely enough however it is amongst those who are most
abhorrent of cruelty in others that we often ﬁnd the greatest
desire to cruelly punish. That is to say, it is “animal lovers” who
are most ready to be cruel to those who are cruel to animals.

Unfortunately many who speak of themselves as “ animal
lovers” do NOT love their fellow men. This is sometimes due to
their having been treated themselves badly and their having
reacted towards a feeling that dogs, for instance, are better friends.
It would be better, however, in the interests of other animals,
that they should try to develop a love of their fellow men. as it is
only by being friendly towards them that they can create in them
a desire to be friendly towards other animals.

Besides, the main complaint we animal lovers have is that
non animal lovers fail to realise the oneness of life—that a rabbit’s
life is as much to a rabbit as a man’s life is to a man ; and also
that it it is correct to speak of the Creator as the Creator of all
and the Father of all, then it cannot be excusable for some beings
(man to wit) to treat others as though they didn’t matter and their
feelings didn’t count merely because they are only “ animals." Is
not man as much an animal as they 3’

There seems to be reason to believe that we should advance
with our Causes much more quickly if we recognised our own
failings as surely as those of others. Much as we resent the
attitude of the average man in looking down upon dogs, cats, rats,
mice, etc., as inferior beings for whom anything is good enough,
we are just as bad ourselves if we call attention to the fact that
the man who is cruel is an inferior being, and maintain that
therefore nothing is too bad for him.

 

~ page ~ .




 

\.
ll

 

HUMANE LIFE 67

The worthy attitude is that which is taken up in times of
shipwreck ; the “ women and children ﬁrst ” attitude ; the feeling
that the helpless should be given ﬁrst consideration because they
are helpless, quite regardless of the fact that they may also be
interior.

oBoao cacao

St. Bernard Dogs Reprieved.

I I ‘HE St. Bernard dogs. which for 400 years have saved the
lives of travellers lost in the snow, are to remain at the St.
Bernard Monastery 14,500 feet up in the Alps.

They were threatened with extinction as it was feared they
were becoming savage.

The prior of the monastery said that three of the dogs, which
recently attacked and killed a ten-year-old girl, have been destroyed.

Eight others are to be specially watched at the monastery for
any sign of unreliability.

They will be kept in a small park during the summer and,*if
found satisfactory, will continue their work in the winter.——-B.U.P.

“ Daily Express ”—13/6/37.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

68 HUMANE LIFE

“The Song of the Shafts.”

AST century, horses were not treated so well as is usual

L to-day by costermongers and others of scanty means. Now

it not only pays to keep them ﬁt for their work, but there is

more consideration for their feelings. The following traverse of

Hood’s ” Song of the Shirt” appeared in the magazine ”Judy ” on
29th January, 1868 :—

A broken down old screw
With heavy and drooping head
Stumbled along the slippery path
With tired and trembling tread.

Drudge, drudge, drudge,
In the cruellest of crafts,

Close by the pavement and through the sludge
He sang the “ Song of the Shafts.”

Work, work, work,
By distance or by time ;
Work, work, work,
Through dust and sweat and slime.

From weary mile to mile,
All day from street to street,

’Till the head is sick and the hoofs benumbed
And the heart nigh ceases to beat.

Work, work, work,
I toil from day to day,

And what are my wages? Some littered straw
And a scanty feed of hay.

No groom to rub me down,
A stable without a door.
And a rest for my weary limbs
On a damp and stony ﬂoor.

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

HUMANE LIFE 69

Flesh and blood and bone,
I am but a sorry hack

But I feel the stinging stroke of the whip
And the saddle that galls my back.

Oh man, I am your slave,

I have no voice to plead,
I have never a soul to save
But my injured withers bleed.

Oh, but to sniff the breath

Of the primrose and cowslip sweet,
With no bit between my teeth

And the turf beneath my feet.

For only one short hour,
For but one pleasant roll
In the ﬁeld I knew so well
When I was an untrained foal.

But it’s work, work, work,

And oh I my case is hard,
Work, work, work,

And then the knacker’s yard.

And another slave will come
To follow in my tracks,

And serve in dust and slime
And die beneath the axe.

So the broken down old screw
With heavy and drooping head

Stumbled along the slippery street
With tired and trembling tread.

Drudge, drudge, drudge,
In the cruellest of crafts,

Close to the pavement and through the sludge,
He sobbed the “ Song of the Shafts.”

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

7O HUMANE LIFE

Cats.

HOUGH the cat is so much a favourite with many peOple,
there is with others a strong antipathy.

The beauty and graceful movements, the soft fur, the friendli-
ness of the domestic cat and the playfulness and charm of the
kittens are much appreciated. Some of the special feline abilities
are extraordinary. For instance, when a cat is carried a hundred
miles in a closed basket to a new home, it is at times missed
because it has travelled back over the hundred miles of unknown
country and unerringly found its way to the old home. A cat will
leave its best friends in order to be in a place it has an affection for.

In the frequent discussions regarding the relative merits of
dog and cat, this preference for places rather than people is
pointed to as a defect of character. On the other hand the
attachment of the dog to his master is strongly approved. A dog
has altruism which a cat apparently has not or, at least, in a very
small degree. The dog will watch carefully over his master’s
interests and will even risk his life to save that of a human being.

Both dogs and cats are occasionally cruel to other animals.
But a dog will not play with a mouse as a cat does. For a long
time a cat will toss a mouse in the air and allow it to creep to a
distance in the hope of escape before it catches it again and ﬁnally
kills it. And it is cruel, too, when it has caught a young ﬂedgling
which the parent birds are teaching to ﬂy.

Still, traits of character when they are common to a class are
not the fault of the animal, but are part of the scheme of Nature
for some special purpose which we cannot fathom.

 

 

 




 

 

 

HUMANE LIFE 71

Books.

“ LAUGH CLOWN LAUGH,” by HELEN TREVELYAN, with
Foreword by Canon H. R. L. (Dick) Shepherd (published by
the C. W. Daniel Company Limited, 40, Great Russell Street,
W.C. 1). Third edition.

A humane argument on broad lines, comprehensive and
sound. All who protest against cruelty should extend their
sympathies to all that suffer. This is what Miss Trevelyan does.
Her plea for animal welfare is a powerful one, and has nothing of
the half-hearted, temporising dilution of the main principle which
is a meretricious feature of some of the advocacy of animals’ rights.

As Canon Shepherd remarks, “ Paciﬁsm begins at home,”
when he is commending Miss T revelyan’s argument that, in our
treatment of animals, there lies a vital factor in eliminating war
and lessening unemployment.

Apathy, want of thought, self interest and greed, hide and
prevent the expression of the latent powers of sympathy possessed,
in some degree, by every one.

An example is given in the opening chapter. A popular
actress went to talk to a meeting on Kindness to Animals, and
found, though there was no charge for admission, merely row upon
row of empty chairs. And, just over the way, a crowd ﬂocked to
View a Back Wear Display at a charge of 2/-.

3K 3K 3K

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

72 HUMANE LIFE

uARMAMENTS”——the Race and the Crisis, by FRANCIS W.
HIRST (published by Cobden-Sanderson, 1 Montagu Street,
London).

A full review of the progress of European armaments and
those of other nations since 1815 ; and the pernicious inﬂuence of
the armament race upon trade and employment, and on the
general welfare of nations.

The enormous unproductive expenditure and tax burdens, the
growth of contempt for individual rights, the League of Nations,
the inﬂuence of the leading statesmen, dictators and patriots, and
many other important subjects are clearly described.

at ‘ as 226

HTHE HUMANE HOME DOCTOR,” by J. STENSON HOOKER,
M.D. (The C. W. Daniel Company Limited, 40 Great Russell
Street, WC. 2.)

A preliminary notice of this book was given in the July issue
of “ Humane Life.” It is a guide for home use in case of illness,
whether serious or not. When the illness is light and can be
dealt with by the patient it tells him how to recognize it» and how
to treat himself: and when the illness is serious, what to do till
the doctor can arrive. Such advice will always be a safeguard, if
kept at hand for ready reference. It might well be on one’s book
shelf side by side with a book on “ First Aid to the Injured.”

This is a “ Humane ” Home Doctor Guide as it avoids the use
of the pernicious Bovril, Oxo, Beef Tea, and remedies based on
vivisection.

 

 

 




 

 

 

HUMANE LIFE 73

“ REALIZATION ” is a story written by Mr. A. Brisco—too long
for publication in this magazine.

A vicar is convinced, against his will, of the cruelty practised
on a large scale on farms when foals with their legs strapped are
subjected to cutting and their wounds then cauterized with red
hot irons. The operation may take about ten minutes during
which no anaesthetic is given.

This is brought home to him by a friend who had been
through the War with him and suffered much from wounds. The
friend had been safeguarded from pains by means of anaesthetics ;
and he thought of the great sufferings of the horses in the War
and of the severe pain inﬂicted on the young foals on the farms.

OEDOCE‘) °EDOCEK°

Their Devil.

MANY of us quite agree with Dean Inge when, writing of our
H poor relations,” he says :-—“ But we can hardly suppose
that, if they are able to think, they will admit our
superiority. If they were capable of formulating a religion, they
might differ considerably as to the shape of the Creator ; but they
would nearly all agree that the Devil must be very like a big white
man. For we have always treated our poor relations in fur and
feathers as if they had no right at all. We have not only enslaved
them and killed and eaten them, but we have made it one of our
chief pleasures to take away their lives ; and not infrequently we

have tortured them.”
—-—(Enﬁeld News Sheet).

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

74 HUMANE LIFE

Correspondence.
Dear Sir,
In regard to Miss Violet Graham’s letter in the July issue of
your magazine and in which she makes the following remark as to
the slaughter of animals for ﬂesh-eating :

“ I do not think, however, that this causes suffering—:providing
the slaughter is properly carried out.”

The captive bolt pistol (known as the Humane-killer) the bolt
of which is suddenly released and passed into the head of a living
palpitating sentient creature must cause a terriﬁc shock; but of
course the shock is inseparable from the method, like all other
stunning processes. However, this contrivance is considered to
be the most certain for non-failure in its object.

But let us remember that this act is the last phase of a long
grim tragedy.

I presume that the writer has not visited the slaughter-houses
or seen the actual killing. What of the lambs and sheep—bled to
death ? A veterinary surgeon informed me, “’A barbarous end 1”

Moreover, Miss Graham points out thatuﬂNatural death can
be more painful than ‘ Humane slaughtering.’ ”

But if an animal is severely ill there is good reason for it
being despatched then as painlessly as possible.

Truly, as Mr. W. Payne of the National Federation of Meat

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

HUMANE LIFE 75

Traders’ Associations said : H No implement that takes the life of

an animal in full blood and vigour can be termed humane.”

HENRY J. BAYLIS, M.R.S.L.
Teddington, Middlesex.

I? ﬂ= 3?

Mr. E. Slocock writes that he agrees with Miss E. Masham
that animals have more than their Share of suffering and remarks
that drivers urge on the poor horses with whip or the immoderate
use of the rein as if their mouths were of cast iron; but he
recognises that it is often due to want of thought rather than want
of heart. in the driver. They should be obliged by law to use
mechanically driven carts. He says we can all try to reduce
animal suffering and certainly would do so if we had to kill calves
and lambs ourselves.

I am sorry not to have satisﬁed Miss Masham’s questioning.
The trouble is that in trying to check animal cruelties we are up
against conservatism and proﬁt making. We have to deal with
what is, not with what can be. Not only shearing but other
farming operations can be cruel, castrating sheep and cutting off
their tails (without anaesthetics) for example. Calves are mostly
brought up on artiﬁcial milk—their mother’s milk is consumed by
humans. It isn’t the bigger a calf is that brings more money in,
but the shortest possible time in which the calf attains quick growth.

It does not pay farmers to kill cattle on their farms. It would
mean them employing experienced killers, having lethal weapons,
and a special place” for killing. It costs less to des atch cattle for
killing by road. Also there is the problem of marking the carcases.

Killing only becomes repulsive to people of intelligence and

feeling.
E. G. BARLow.

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

76 HUMANE LIFE

Better Watch‘Dogs.

The following useful advice is given by the Secretary, National
Canine Defence League—

THERE is no reason why owners of the watch—dog should
not co-operate in our HHappier Dogs Movement.” At

present many watch-dogs earn more than they receive, and
owners might consider the following hints for securing greater
canine happiness.

Is the kennel cosy, dry, sheltered from cold wet winds? It
should be raised up on bricks and made weathertight with rooﬁng
felt—a cheap way of keeping out the draughts which may cause
distemper or rheumatism. A door curtain is adviSable in very
cold weather.

Bedding of straw, shavings, or old newspapers—always dry—
should replace damp sacking.

Give clean water always and two good meals a day. Cod-liver
oil on his cereal food makes his coat glossy and tones him up
wonderfully.

Two long walks a day and a daily brushing (dandy brushes
only cost 6d.) are essentials to that feeling of ﬁtness. Attack
parasites as soon as they appear.

A guard dog in the house is worth two in the yard, and the
short heavy chain is the fowl-thief’s best friend. We shall send
free leaﬂets on the care of dogs in Winter to any reader of this
paper.

 

 

 




 

 

 

HUMANE LIFE , 77

Symposium.

HAVE ALL ANIMALS THE RIGHT TO LIVE THEIR
FULL NATURAL LIFE?

HIS symposium is a collection of opinions ; and some of the
contributors express opposite opinions. The Editor is not
responsible for any of the views set forth ; but, in a debate

of this kind, it is best that all should be represented.

=3 J! - 3!:
Henry J. Baylis, M.R.S.L., writes :—

Life having its being from one Source, the Giver of all
things—it would seem the answer should be in the afﬁrmative.

According to Gautama Buddha, all animals should be allowed
to live their full life, and if ill, where practical, tended, even until
death.

The belief that the Golden Age existed, when man and
animal-kind lived peacefully together, is enforced in ancient
writings by the majority of the races of mankind. The records
from the Classic Age make strong appeal to a vast number
of peOple.

There is a story recorded that when Adam and Eve departed
from the Garden of Eden, they met a lion who growled ferociously
at them. Adam remarked : “ You have never done this before.”
The lion answered : ” No, but you have disobeyed God, we may,
therefore, disobey you.”

 

 

 

 




 

 

78 HUMANE LIFE

This creature, and its kind, the tiger, leopard, panther, etc.,
subsequently were named by Naturalists, “ Big Cats” of the
Jungle—a deadly terror by night to the weaker, such as the zebra,
antelope, and so on.

We have too, the Feline Domestica—cats of many lands—but
all have inherent that cunning—the pride of their jungle ancestry;
and they, like the " Big Cats,” swish their tails when displeased or
in anger.

Professor E. Cobham Brewer, in giving symbols of animal-
kind, symbolized ”Deceit” to the cat. Most of us can sorrow-
fully testify to this when to our anguish, a garden songster has
been stealthily caught by a feline, to be, in most cases, tortured,
and left to die in an adjacent bush.

Therefore I would say: All carnivorous animals should be
painlessly or as painlessly as possible, gradually exterminated.
Where animals propagate by Natural selection, there is no excess
in kind to cope with. It is man’s interference—his artiﬁcial
system of breeding sub-humans which upsets Nature’s balance in
great excess.

The peaceful herbivorous creatures and likewise the birdkind
should be allowed to live free from fear and the menace of
unprovoked attack.

The subject may be a deep and wide one—but our slogan is :
“ Protect the weaker kind—every time,” and that can only be
practically brought about by the extinction of the cruel, relentless,
wily animals against the exploitation of the gentle, docile and
harmless species.

Moreover, extinction would certainly safeguard the feline
kind from the possibility of vivisection, and risk of the trap-horror.

* it *

 




 

HUMANE LIFE 79

Miss L. Stratford Houghton writes :—How can we have any
doubt as to whether all animals have a right to live their natural
lives to the full P To say otherwise is to say that man has a right
of decision above the Creator.

°EOCEK° OBoao

Stag Hunting. , '

TAG-HUNTING begins in the West Country on Monday.

S No other sport has aroused such ﬁerce controversy. Should

it be permitted or should it be made illegal—like cock-
ﬁghting?

Mr. R. F. Waddon, of Bridgwater, in the stag-hunting country,
writes to the Editor :—

HThe opening next- week of the stag-hunting season prompts
one to ask how much longer this form of barbarism will be
permitted in a country which prides itself on fair play. A Bill to
make the butchery illegal is long overdue. A referendum, I
believe, would reveal an overwhelming majority against blood
sports, but there is a certain amount of apathy among the masses,
probably because they are totally unaware of the terrible cruelty
which is perpetrated in the name of hunting.

Picturesque scenes of the meet are frequently depicted in a
certain section of the Press and in newsreels, but the hunting
fraternity take special care to ensure that the revolting practices
which are common features of the kill shall not be blazoned forth.”

“ Daily Herald”—213t July, 1937.

 




 

80 HUMANE LIFE

FURS.

In the “ Danielite Star,” Miss Emily E. Cole wrote :—

“Do we ever stay to reﬂect how these beautiful skins are
thieved, by every device imaginable, from creatures happy in their
native haunts and which are trapped, bludgeoned, and mercilessly
murdered? . . . . Are we so selﬁsh in our inordinate conceit and
vulgar love of display that the Russian bear, the monkey, the
ermine, the sable, the otter, the chinchilla, the mole, the squirrel,
indeed all fur bearing animals down to the domestic cat are to be

mercilessly sacriﬁced for us P"

 

 

NOTE.

With this number the publication of “ Humane Life " ceases.
An explanation will be given to each subscriber and refunds made
of any subscriptions already received for next year.

Bound volumes for 1935-1936-1937 available at 2/- per volume.

Apply to__The Editor,
“ Wynhurst," 94, Penn Hill Avenue,
Parkstone, Dorset.

 

 

Printed by H. Welsford, North Devon Printing Works, Ilfracombe.

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 




 




