W ' l melt/mm Vivisecm-M
M ~76 H-Peokj

-May 2, r863 , quoted from Editorial in " L’Union‘ Me'dieale,” of Paris.
Iwould gladly petition the Senate to forbid its performance on every
animal which is useful to and a friend of man.”

August 22nd, r863 (Editorial).

We are very glad to ﬁnd that the French medical journals are entering protests
against the cruel abuse which is made of ViviseCtion in France.”
L’Abeille Medieale says: ~-

. Let no one tell us that \uvisections are necessary for a knowledge of phy-
siology. . . . If the present ways, habits and customs are continued, the future
physician will become marked by his cold and implacable insensibility. Let there be
no mistake about it; the man who habituates himself to the shedding of blood, and who
is insensible to the snﬂerings 0/ animals is led on into the path of baseness. ”

October Ioth,1863 (Editorial) referring to a speech by M Dubois at the Academy or
Medicine, Paris: 7——
“ M. Dubois showed to demonstration that ,. . . physiOIOgical demonstrations
on living animals in the public (Medical) schools are utterly unjustiﬁable and a scandal
to humanity. In all this, we most thoroughly agree with him.”

'“June 11th,1864 (Editorial).

'Far be it from us to patronize or palliate the infamous practices, the unjustiﬁable
practices committed in French veterinary schools, and in many French Medical Schools,
in the matter of vivisection We repudiate as brutal and cruel all surgical operations
performed on living animals. We repudiate the repetition of all experiments on animals
for the demonstration of any already well- determined physiological question. ”

(I have to acknowledge my indebtedness to Dr. Leffmgwell’s pamphlet “ The Rise
of the Vivisection Controversy,” published by the American Humane Association, for
most of these references).

Italics not in original Editorials.

 

Appendix IV.

_I—.

HUMAN VIVISECTION.

“ So far from vivisection saving human beings from being experimented upon, it actually
necessitates it."——(JOHN M. CLARKE, M.D., London).

I give belowa few instances (a full list would require many pages) in
which medical men, having their sense of honour and compassion
blunted by familiarity with vivisectional practice on the lower
animals, and desirous of professional distinction or so-called thera-
,peutic scientiﬁc knowledge (which in the very nature of things
cannot be gained by experimentation on sub-human creatures),
no matter at what cost to others, have violated alike the canons

. of Common humanity, morals and professional ethics, as well as
the trust reposed in them, by subjecting healthy, sick, and even

dying persons and little children to what may be truly termed
human vivisection, and that without the knowledge or consent
of the victims, and with no view to their ultimate beneﬁt.

I am happy in the belief that the great majority of my profes~
sional‘brethren properly regard these procedures as inhuman, immoral.
and wholly indefensible ; and records show that many of them have
lost no opportunity to denounce in the strongest terms the perpetra-
tion of such atrocities.

Dr. HAHN, of Friedrickshain, admitted in Deutsche Med. Wochenschsrift, 10th Nov.,
x887,p .987) that he had transplanted no ules from a cancerous growth in a female
patient .to other parts of the body

This proceeding was ﬁrst brought to the notice of the public and denounced strongly
by Prof. Cornil and Dr. E. Leidig; it created an immense sensation at the time.

2I

 




m. Dom (in a paper-read: before the Academy of Medicine, in Paris, 23rd June,
891) describa similar procedures by himself on a female patient.

“ Dr. LUND, of Samso, purposely fed his infant son for 16 months on milk from
tuberculous cows, with the object of ascertaining whether the disease could be communi-
cated by this means to a human being. The child became the subject of a tuberculous
aﬁection in consequence."-—The Practitioner for Nov. 190: (from Dr. Lund’s own report
in the Scandinavian Med. Archives, 1879, Vol. 11).

Bargigli inoculated two children with matter from a leprous tumour.—Reported
by Hirsch in Handbook der Historisch Geographischen Pathologie, 2nd Abtheilung, 1883,
p. 32.

Mary Rafferty, a servant girl, was admitted into the Good Samaritan Hos ital,
Cincinnatti, with fracture of the skull osing the brain. As her recovery seemed o e-
less her surgeon considered himself justi ed in experimenting on the brain by stimula on
by means of the electric current passed through needles inserted into various parts.
_ hose experiments were said to have been undertaken as supplemental to those performed
an England by Dr. Ferrier one“: and monkeys. Full details given in British Medical
Journal, of 22nd May, 1874. ~

Similar experiments to the last were performed on an Italian, Rinalducci, in, the
Hospital, at Turin, March 23rd, 1882, and of which an account was given by the operator,
Dr. Egio Lamanna, in a paper on “ Phenomena produced by the application of the
electric current to the Dura Mater."

The British Medical Journal, July 3rd, 1897, gives an account by Dr. Sanarelli, of
Monte Video, of his inoculations of human beings with the speciﬁc germs of yellow fever.
Original article in Anuali d’Igiene Sperimentale, Vol. VII., p. 441, et seq.

In Deutsche Medisinisehe Wochenschrift, Nos. 46 to 48, 1894, are accounts by Dr.
K. Menge, of University Hospital for Women, Leipsic, of his inoculation of three new-
born babes, and thirty-ﬁve other patients with various morbid materials.

In the Bulletin of the John Hopkins Hospital, for July, 1897, Henry J. Berkley,
M.D., describes his experiments on eight insane persons. He says 2—“ It was directly
for the purpose of ascertaining the toxicity (poisonous qualities) of one of the best-known
varieties of the thyroid extract that these experiments were undertaken.”

'I‘he Medical Record, of New York, September 10th, 1892, contains an article by an
Aman Surgeon giving details of the inoculation of little girls with syphilis.

The Medical News, of Philadelphia, April Ist, 1899, published an article referring
to the “ inoculation of cancer from man to man,” done, “ both intentionally and success-
fully " by an experimenter, who “ is discreetly silent with regard to details."

- Dr. Ernst Weltheim reports having inoculated four paralytic patients and one idiot
with a painful and serious veneral disease, in Deutsehe Med. Wochenschrift, 1891, No.
60, and Archie fur Gynaecologie, Bd. 42, 1892.

Professor B. Grassi reports his administration of the ova of well-known intestinal
worms to a boy of seven, with the result that within three months 143 were evacuated,
in Centralbl. fur Bacterial. u Paras, 1887, Bd. I. p. 131.

Professor Epstein records the results of a similar experiment to that of Grassi’s
by himself on three children, in The Physician St. Petersburg, 1891, p. 972.

Professor H. S. Hubbenet describes his inoculation of two persons with syphilitie
virus, in The Medical Military Journal (Russian), Part 77 (1860), pp. 432-7.

Dr. J. W. Stickler, c! Orange, New Jersey,presented a paper describing theinoculation
by him (with the object of proving his theory that the virus of the one disease renders
the patient immune to the other) of two children with “ Foot and Mouth Disease,”
and subsequently exposing them to the infection of Scarlet Fever. He had been experi-
menting on these lines for years, for he says :-—- -

‘ ' In the early part of the year 1883, 1 inoculated twelve persons with virus obtained
from horses. . . . These twelve persons were also inoculated with human scarlatinal
blood, after they had been inoculated with equine virus. During the summer of the same

car I inoculated thirteen children, all of whom had been, or were at the time of inocu-
Ltion, exposed to the inﬂuence of air contaminated by the breath and exhalations of

- scarlatinal patients. . . . During the past year I have inoculated two children
with the contents of a vesicle produced on the abdomen of a calf by inoculation
with the virus 0/ a patient who had had scarlet fever." (Italics mine.)

A full summary of these child-vivisections was published by The Medical Record,
in New York, December 10th, 1887, and later by four of the principal medical jounrals
of the U.S., without a word of Editorial criticism, protest or rcmonstrance.

 

 




