by Charles Darwin

Trapping Agony

T IS A COMMON OBSERVATION that cases

of brutality to horses, asses, and other
large quadrupeds, are much less frequent—
ly witnessed now than they were some
time ago. This is no doubt owing to the
general increase of humanity, and to these
animals being now under the protection
of the law. An English gentleman would
not himself give a moment’s unnecessary
pain to any living creature, and would
instinctively exert himself to put an end
to any suffering before his eyes; yet it is
a fact that every game preserver in this
country sanctions a system which con-
signs thousands of animals to acute agony,
probably of eight or ten hours duration,
before it is ended by death. I allude to
the setting of steel traps for catching ver-
min. The iron teeth shut together with so
strong a spring, that a pencil which I
inserted was cracked and deeply indented

Bettmann Archive, Inc.

by the violence of the blow. The grip must
be close enough not to allow the escape
of a small animal, such as a stoat or a
magpie; and therefore when a cat or a
rabbit is caught, the limb is cut to the
bone and crushed. A humane game-
keeper said to me, ‘I know what they
must feel, as I have had my ﬁnger caught.’
The smaller animals are often so fortu-
nate as to be killed at once. If we attempt
to realise the sufferings of a cat, or other
animal when caught, we must fancy what
it would be to have a limb crushed during
a whole long night, between the iron
teeth of a trap, and with the agony in-
creased by constant attempts to escape.
Few men could endure to watch for ﬁve
minutes, an animal struggling in a trap
with a crushed and torn limb; yet on all
the well—preserved estates throughout the
kingdom, animals thus linger every night;

Charles Darwin, 19th-Century
naturalist who revolutionized
biology with Origin of Species,
published this appeal against
trapping in the ’Gardeners’
Chronicle and Agricultural
Gazette’ of August 1863.

and where game keepers are not humane,
or have grown callous to the suffering
constantly passing under their eyes, they
have been known by an eyewitness to
leave the traps unvisited for 24 or even
36 hours. Such neglect as this is no doubt
rare; but traps are often forgotten; and
there are few game keepers who will leave
their beds on a cold winter’s morning, one
hour earlier, to put an end to the pain of
an animal which is safely in their power.
I subjoin the account of the appearance
of a rabbit caught in a trap, given by a
gentleman, who, last summer witnessed
the painful sight many times. ‘I know of
no sight more sorrowful than that of these
unoffending animals as they are seen in
the torture grip of these traps. They sit
drawn up into a little heap, as if collecting
all their force of endurance to support the
agony; some sit in a half torpid state in-
duced by intense suffering. Most young
ones are found dead after some hours of
it, but others as you approach, start up,
struggle violently to escape, and shriek
pitiably, from terror and the pangs occa—
sioned by their struggles.’ We naturally
feel more compassion for a timid and
harmless animal, such as a rabbit, than
for vermin, but the actual agony must be
the same in all cases. It is scarcely pos-
sible to exaggerate the suffering thus en-
dured from fear, from acute pain, mad-
dened by thirst, and by vain attempts to
escape. Bull baiting and cock ﬁghting
have rightly been put down by law; I
hope it may never be said that the mem-
bers of the British Parliament will not
make laws to protect animals if such laws
should in any way interfere with their
own sports. Some who 1reﬂect upon this
subject for the ﬁrst time will wonder how
such cruelty can have been permitted to
continue in these days of civilisation; and
no doubt if men of education saw with
their own eyes what takes place under
their sanction, the system would have
been put an end to long ago. We shall be
told that setting steel traps is the only
way to preserve game, but we cannot
believe that Englishmen when their atten-
tion is once drawn to the case, will let
even this motive weigh against so fearful
an amount of cruelty.

Reprinted with permission of Defenders of Wildlife, April 1980.

 




 

Alternatives that Don’t Harm or Destroy Animals

 

Frog Dissection Study Living Things:
Alternatives: Projects That Don’t Hurt Animals

Human internal Thousands of educationally sound biology
anatomy from projects can be done without resorting to
x-rays, movies of harming or killing vertebrate animals.
stomach after
barium meal, Study plants, fungi, protozoa, worms,
pyelograms of snails, insects, and other invertebrates
kidney, imaging
of the heart,
CAT scans

Study human physiology and
psychology

Observe behavior of domestic pets,
animals on free range farms, in the wild
or at zoos

videos

Take-apart frog Study normal functions such as :

models . communication

. learning processes
Student-made models of stomach, etc ° activity cycles

. reproduction

_ . . genetics
Student made skeleton of whole flSh from , Special senses

supermarket , growth

. metabolism

Dissection of chicken wings and slaughter . nerve reﬂexes
house material . interrelationship of organisms

 

 

Frog dissection

 

 

Living things are marvelous. Study them,
but never harm them, in your biology class or elsewhere.

For more information, write: Animal Welfare Institute PO. Box 3650 Washington, DC). 20007

 

 

 

 




 

 

 




H An ocean giant

Continued from page 1

pm. when the dinghies
were taken out of the water
in the hope everyone could
get some sleep. And it work-
ed. After making a couple
of circuits of the ship and
diving beneath it to make
sure his toy was gone, he
disappeared.

lint he couldn’t have gone
far, because at 5.5.) a.m. he
was back looking for his
rubber playmate and his
new friends.

Back into the water went
the dinghy and for another
three hours he repeated his
act. Even the presence at
another large boat. which
had been radioed to come
and watch the unique show,
didn’t disturb him for more
than the few minutes it took
him to swim over and inves-
igate it.

 

 

At one point the skipper

of the Salado, John Koehler,
went into the raft to repair
a line broken by the playful
toss of the whale and Nacho
tthe Spanish diminutive for
the name ofthe lagoon) slid
the forward part of his head
into the air beside the craft
-— towering above both it
and John -— in an obvious
attempt to see what had
changed the weight of his
plaything.

'l‘his projection of th e
head vertically above the
water by whales is known
as spy hopping and there
has been argument about its
purpose.

Some cetologists (whale
expertst maintain it is done
to assist digestion while
others say that it is done to
bring the eyes. which are
well back on th e head,
above the water.

 

 

and man make history

Well, there was no doubt I dinghy and lifting it an inch
t or so.

about what Nacho was
doing. He .was taking a look
into the dinghy. And having
sat'sfied his curiosity, he
began to play again with
the craft and John, lifting
both in the air and obvious-
ly enjoying he whole thing.

But with all his weight
and power he never once
turned the raft over.

At 9 am. the engines
were started momentarily
and Nacho swam away, giv-

ing the captain a chance to .

move the ship farther down
the lagoon so that he could
put some whale watchers
out in the skiffs without
having them
seven tens of affection.

It worked for the morning
but on an afternoon trip he
suddenly appeared again.
sliding under his fave-rite

visited by .

l
l
l

The crewman in charge of
the rubber boat, Mary Stein,
headed back to the Salado
with Nacho in tow. Once
there he broke off to play
around the big ship and she

l took the opportunity to

l

 

t

speed away.

But that wasn’t the end of
this unique encounter be-
tween m a n a n d whale.
Later that afternoon he was
spotted playing with anoth-
er young whale and, without
even getting close, Mary
sped away. happy in the.
knowledge he had found a
companion.

However. as the dinghy
roared o ff through t h e
choppy sea he appeared
alongside. gliding smoothly
at. their speed. For minutes
he held the course. as if in
farewell. then disappeared.

 

Naturalists Fay W-olfson
and Richard Phillips aboard
the Salado and other ex-
perts aboard other‘craft,

say there is no record of
any free whale ever acting
in this manner.

Normally, gray whales
are not aggressive unless
you get between a' mother
and her calf, but they are
shy —— with reason —— and
certainly don’t seek human
company.

Why Nacho did‘ is a mys-
tery. B ut, he gave the
scientists aboard an unpa-
ralleled opportunity to ob-
serve a gray whale at close
quarters in his natural envi-
ronment 1— something no
one has ever been able to do
before.

And he gave the grateful
passengers aboard the Sala-
do the thrill of a lifetime.

7-ton playmate wants only
‘ man’s friendship

By GEORGE BRYANT
Star associate travel editor

SAN lGNAClO LAGOON, Mexico —
To Sit in a frail rubber dinghy and pat
th e barnacle-encrusted head of a
seven-ton untamed young whale is an
experience “comprising equal parts of
sheer terror and wild delight.

There’s the 6-foot gash of the mouth
and, as he slides beneath the waves
and rolls, there's the 10-foot spread of
his belly and now, poised on high.
blocking the sky, the 8-foot width of his
tail flukes, powerful enough to drive a
steam engine through a brick wall.

You are a passenger on a whale-
Watching cruise in a lagoon on the west
coast of Mexico's Baja California
Peninsula where thousands of gray
whales are Spending the winter.

A n (1 one of them — nicknamed
Nacho by the passengers and crew of
the Salado — has chosen a sunny day
early this week to do what no other
free and untamed whale is known to
have done before: Seek out. and thorv
oughly enjoy the companionship of
human beings.

Right there beside you disappearing
in the cloudy depths is size enough and
strength enough to squash you like a
fly -— and he has no controls and no
training.

Nobody has apparently ever been
this close to a wild. free and uninjured
young whale before and he‘s acting as
no whale ever acted before. Everything
he does is unpredictable.

And still you trust him. All he has
exhibited is friendship and a desire for
affection. And he moves the massive
muscles of his body like a ballet. star.
You have the feeling he could part
your hair with his tail flukes and you’d
never feel a touch on your scalp;

As you sit there he rolls over again
like avplayful pup and then slides down
again into the clouded waters, slowly,
gently. delicately, and you again mar-
vel at the grace and absolute control of
this friendly giant.




r—rs—

v-u

 

——Star photo by Georoe Brvant

WITH A DIVCHY i - ,

i ' ()AN 111.‘ . T 3 f .I y ' . _
Whale, shows his P'ianul 8,18 1:051!» {\ncho, II t\\0-}c:u-o«id gray he became the tirst whaie to seek human companionship, allowing
ship out of San Dieg; Th. K3: {0 peﬂop e aboard a “hale-watching people to pet him and scratch him. Experts say they are bafﬂed hv

. e . - oot, l-ton Racho made history when the young ur‘hale's friendly manner. That fi-foot gash is hishioutli

Sheer size
is astounding

And you marvel, too, at the sheer
size of this youngster. Thirty feet doesr
n’t sound much when you say it. But
when you see it beside you —— five
times the width of your large raft,
more than a third the length of the big
ship ~— it seems incredible. Standing on

his tail this playful youngster would
tower three storeys and dominate the
landscape.

But he is a child, full of energy.
ready for adventure, and most intri-

. gued by you and your artifacts; And
you wonder why. How does he differ
from his fellows who, decimated by
Whalers. only tolerate your presence?
Why is he the first whale known to ac-
tively seek out the friendship of man?

 

 

 




 

Plays with
anchor line

Earlier you had stood on the fore
deck of the ship and watched him seize
the three-inch anchor line in his mouth
and play with it as a dog would play
with a rope.

Some dog, some rope.

When it began to run out nobody. but
nobody. tried to hold it. But. when it ap-
peared he might take it all and then
the ship. they decided to put on the
winch. That, too, might. have failed if
he had wanted to force the issue. But
fortunately he didn’t. Instead he gave a
few tugs. which swung the ship's bow
like a weathervane, then let go and
came back to play under the craft.

Later that night he spent hours

romping about with the rubber dinghy.
receiving admiration and petting and
obviously loving every minute of it.

When he rolled, his huge eye would
inspect the gallery lining the rail like
an actor seeking applause. And then
he'd flip his flukes or roll under the
dinghy and come up for another look.

You had the feeling he knew exactly
what he was doing.

The big question concerns the future.
There are still three trips to the lagoon
to be made by the Salado this year and
more coming up next year. And some
other ships do visit the whale watching
grounds here. Will he continue to come
calling? And, since whales can com-
municate and learn from others, will
he bring his pals?

Could this be the start of a very com-
panionable relationship between man
and whale? Or will rhe forget. us on his
long trip to the Arctic this spring? Or.
worse. meet the wrong people and die
because he trusted man.

But whatever happens for good or ill.
no one who was on this trip will ever
forget Nacho —‘ the first whale to make
a friend of man.

There are no answers. You can only
wonder -— and feel a tremendous
sense of gratitude that, you were here
when it happened.

And then he nunles the raft again
and you reach down to scratch his
nose. too intrigued and awed by the ex-
perience to be frightened. too caught
up in one of life‘s great moments to
care.

His skin is soft and smooth. like wet
suede. even where white circles indi»
cate barnacles have once have hold;
and you can feel an irresistable thrust
as he moves slowly under your hand
with a power nothing can stay. (fer-
tainly nothing you're capable of doinz.

Then he slides beneath the waves for
the last time and is gone and the great
adventure is over. But not forgotten.
Not by you or anyone of the 32 other
passengers or seven crewmen aboard
the Salado 85.

Reprinted by permission
from The Toronto Star,
February 28, 1976.

A‘NIRIAL ‘VELFARE INSTITUTE

I’. 0. BOX 3650

‘VASIIINGTON. I). (". 2mm?

 




 

 

 

‘ A letter from a Mr

Dear Friends,

You don’t know me and we may never
meet. Your father knew me ever so slightly
and his father, your grandfather, knew me a
little bit better. But your great grandfather
knew me well.

Your great grandfather and other men of
his time chased me around the world. He
made up songs and stories about me. He
even called me a monster!

Q-..

Illustration Courtesy of Christine Stevens

a e by Charles F. Herrmann, Ill

Your great grandfather hunted my broth‘

ers and me. He killed many of my brothetg
and sisters. Then he cut them up In “toil

pieces and boiled them. He used the
from their bodies to light his lamps.

..--ur @-$}C.k"" .-

-‘-'. I o. .‘ ..
“‘7'”. I" . '
4’ w_ 'gY‘T‘TJ {7}". . . .-
“' “. . " '."“ ' .x' ' l. .‘ ’J‘I‘t ”2"“ -.
. f" “ 1...“! c“!‘ - a; . (1; Sr .- .2 g ' - , .. — ..
. . . 1 ‘ . .-. .. u .-‘._!.37d--.’«1;.".l, ' ' 4- - . ‘ , "
t Mt 7*1.” ' '. .' 7‘ .' ' -.'~- ‘5‘ r ' .I '
.9 4";- 4 :h-O 7. . s .9 ‘~V
I; ’ "
. _ .
l

.
ac,

. -.
1. I“

W _ ”I -- .
. ' ;F'"19.T5‘.7 ly '
4" Mag -
«- ‘2'; ‘- w‘ . ~ .'
' L

- . H‘ - -. I. ~ -
. _- . , . . ,x ,. .
a...“ Alla“? 3" .4 if. g. ' .. it. ‘N
.' '7. - ' '-.- C ., ' ’ ‘ .

‘a‘a-

 

.You know, your great grandfather was a
dlsalgreeable character but I still admired
him — a little. He and his fellow sailors
would chase me through the swiftly moving
waters In large sailboats. When they got
“089, a few of them would get into a small
Wooden boat and row after me. Then they
trred to kill me with woodenhandled spears.
Sometimes they would spend more than two
years at sea chasing my brothers and me.

But then everything changed. Your grand-
father and the sailors of his time began to
use cannons to shoot their spears. They
burlt gigantic metal ships to use in the hunt.
Your grandfather and his shipmates were
good at their job. They killed off a lot of my
brothers and sisters.

.. .. , . ....'..":..t:~. ”w-
~ ‘-- ‘ ‘ .- . £415.;—
- __ zﬁ‘wwﬁazz , '

 

thinner.

days.

I can’t understand why they still hunt us.
Everything that you people used to make
from whale parts can now be made easier
and cheaper with man-made things like
plastic and steel.

Did you know that your grandmother used
to make herself look thin by wearing a wide
belt around her middle filled with thin whale
bones? Strange, isn’t it? Imagine killing a
huge whale so that someone can look

Now it’s your father’s turn. He uses fancy
electronic equipment to find us. And he
does his dirty work much faster than your
grandfather.

It used to be that I could sing my song and
thousands of my brothers and sisters could
hear me humming in the water. Today when
I sing, my song is no longer heard. Most of
my brothers and sisters are gone, thanks to
your great-grandfather, his son, and your
father. ,J/

.1, 5g. ,.
."f y’?’ 4

. 2?, ’1’)”
gift??? 24’

?

 
 

,3 ’ .
.- f, ,. 1
.. I -
'. I ‘ I ,
1 .. _., .
I 1.31 ' -' "
. ‘ t ‘1: I

 
   
     
  
 
 

  

Do you think that maybe, just maybe, you
could help us out? We need a place to hide.
We’re sort of hoping that the whale hunters
will give up if they can’t find us.
you’ve got a better idea? But you can’t write
me back. I’ll have to write you again. You
see, I have to change my address a lot these

Maybe

Very truly yours,
A Blue Friend

  
  
   

 
   
 
     

 

 




’ Please
SAVE THE

Commercial Whaling
Voted Down

At its July 1972 annual meeting, the International Whaling
Commission (IWC) voted to ban all commercial whaling as of
1986. The decision was overwhelming—25 to 7—and marked
the first time that conservation nations were able to muster the
required three-quarters majority to overcome the fierce
opposition of the whaling nations.

But Whalers May
Defy 1986 Ban

Public Pressure is Crucial Now.

Japan led the whalers in denouncing the decision and, joined
by Norway, is threatening to defy the international treaty. You
can help end the massacre of the great whales by asking the
whaling nations to accede to the 1986 ban on commercial
whaling. If they do not file an objection during the next few
months, the whaling nations will be legally required to comply,
and a gigantic step towards protection of the whales will have
been achieved.

Please write letters to the whaling nations (see other side)
and join the boycott of all products from the four leading News Item: World Panel Votes Whaling Ban by 1986-

whaling nations. Please help us send them a message.
Whales: 25 —Whalers: 7

 

 

 

 

Langley in the Christian Science Monitor © 1982 TCSPS

The Cruel Harpoons

Dr. Harry Lillie writes: “The present-day hunting harpoon is a horrible 150—pound weapon carrying an explosive head
which bursts generally in the whale’s intestines, and the sight of one of those creatures pouring blood and gasping along the
surface, towing a 400-ton catching vessel by a heavy harpoon rope, is pitiful.”

The major whaling nations use an even more inhumane weapon on the small minke whales'. Because they want to save
on buying an explosive harpoon, and because a grenade—tipped harpoon destroys valuable meat when it explodes, the
Japanese, Norwegian and Icelandic whalers have been using the “cold” harpoon, which merely impales the minke whale so
that it suffers a prolonged death as it struggles helplessly in the blood—stained water. Sometimes death takes an hour or

y f/// /\

 

 

 

Boycott Japanese,Norwegian,
Icelandic and Russian Goods

 




 

“Now that hard science has; sled iCl’i

- ' 9 - .i’. . M "I? . .,._, we”?
special brains in whores, we g,“ ml meg-1;: and

'I

h.” v T . , j, t“, In 3'“ (viz/1'1: .u-‘If If."
nations to go about the r...» a;

1.17 ,, .' - . .. a I] r. ll ~J. ., {L ,1, ., wry.“ ’11,.‘15;
aﬂoat them who with: by Iris/my ».

f

a T? , . 1' .. .-1.
awe—"r3, ,.c.. .» r: ‘w‘ r" ,~.v“-.imw 02w I '1‘ ,
13:,” .5381 = » . . . ... that. U to 1.141 so 3011,: , '
a n I" : 4 7“ /’ \ l r 7‘ r T.‘
p, . ti. ,.. c: ,3... r: ,1“,- pl. ,__. 1 5;. 7. .4 4, 11'. ,. g, , a, ,, , .. m?
I" C $9 LL 3 :l (C, E" Lu“: “.x 5. Tux-fr) {IQ Ll. Ill ._, 1 1‘7 '1 ..- ,2. L . u’ I" ‘ i w i ‘ ‘ r
3“
.3 r

if": tidifﬁiif'ﬂ 0316 01.1.1} 1;.
l 4.

Richard Ellis

 

Sperm Whales, male and female

 

 

The whaling nations have already announced they will defy the ban on the cold harpoon. More than 11,000 minke
whales will die terribly in the coming year because the whalers refuse to abandon this inhumane weapon. Every humane
person should forcefully protest the arrogance of the whaling nations in filing objections to the IWC decision against this cruel
implement.

When Norwegian conservation groups filed suit against their Ministry of Fisheries in 1982, charging that the continued use
of the cold harpoon violates Norway’s Animal Protection Legislation, the government refused to halt use of the inhumane
weapon. The Norwegian government itself owns the factory Kongsberg Vapenfabrikk that produces and sells the harpoons
and harpoon guns.

 

5‘ ’, .L “1'” ‘ . .3er M.
ln light :3; our an
w r~ l-ur /- I“ ~ 1...: «’1', -. 1' ». » V”: ,1 .,. ~,
lliLllilillﬂtbi, NU cli.)‘.i..’.<'._tl fj'L’lcaLlil Lilia
iiJi‘iniii returns-ion £3.15: Cyith’s'Kll-E. (:1. y ."
,,.- Fri: , If...” .._ i- F Mn
SIULLICS. ix,'.r-":(1liii}; is an i .ui xii-mam {HIM
fo‘ ;«, n, r , ‘ VA 1‘ - ~,, . ,. 1.... r 1.7,‘» ‘I
(lebastnimit of human L.l(.:ll;zit.’.:»
. .1.
Semi.

"’ 1 a

.

a? ,ja

":J'. 1*..0? ’1

:‘L . I 03‘ 1.:_/ ,‘I ; (fl?
./

 

 

“The only creatures an Earth that have bigger ‘-~——anr.i
maybe bettermbrains than humans are the Cctacecs, the

whales and dolphins.” Jacques (Cousteau.

 

 

Richard Ellis

 

Humpback Whales, mother and young

Write letters protesting the continuation of commercial whaling to the Foreign Ministers of Japan, Iceland and Norway.
Make it clear to them that to take an objection to the IWC ban and to continue to whale with the cold harpoon will damage
their national image throughout the civilized world. Explain that you intend to boycott any whaling nation’s products until
they agree to halt this senseless and unnecessary slaughter. Write immediately to:

His Excellency Sakurauchi His Excellency Olafur Johannesson His Excellency Svenn Stray
Foreign Minister Foreign Minister Foreign Minister

2-2-1 Kasumigaseki Hverfisgata 115 PO. Box 8114 DEP
Chiyoda-ku Reykjavik, Iceland Oslo 1, Norway

Tokyo 100, Japan

You can join the international conservation community and citizens of good will everywhere to boycott exports from any
whaling nation, including fish sold to fast-food chains and supermarkets. Tell merchants and restaurant owners that you are
boycotting so that the whaling countries know the economic toll they face if they continue to support and even subsidize a
dying, obsolete whaling fleet.

 

The Animal Welfare Institute is a non-profit, educational organization established in 1951 to reduce animal suffering and protect endangered species. Funds contributed will
be used to inform the public of the problem of whale survival and how to help end the killing. We are proud of the way we manage your contributions. A copy of AWl’s annual
report is available on written request to AWI or to the New York State Department of State, Office of Charities Registration, Albany, NY 12231.

 

 

 

You can help save the whales and publicize the boycott campaign by making a TAX-DEDUCTIBLE CONTRIBUTION to the Save the Whales Campaign. If you

believe in this effort, please give generously.
For a donation of $15 or more, you will receive a beautiful six-color print of the humpback whales or the sperm whales (illustrated above) by renowned
marine life artist Richard Ellis. Measuring 20” x 26”, they are printed on fine art paper and are ready for framing.

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE PO. BOX 3650 Washington, D.C. 20007 Christine Stevens, President
IF THIS ORDER IS URGENT, PLEASE ADD $2.50 FOR PRIORITY MAIL, POSTAGE AND HANDLING.

I |
: :

I
I I WANT TO HELP SAVE THE WHALES. PLEASE SEND ME: I
| Copies of this leaflet __Petitions “SAVE THE WHALES” T-shirts I
: Bumper stickers (One free, extras 20¢ ) Adult’s T-shirts ($6.00 each) :
I _Posters (One free, extras 40¢ ) I l Sm I l Med I l L9 I l XLg I
| ______“Humpback Whales” print or ______“Sperm Whales” print ______Children’s T-shirts ($5.00 each) I
I (a donation of $15.00 or more per print) I l Sm ( l Med I l LQ :
I , I __Adult’s sweatshirts ($15.00 each)
: Enclosed please find $_____ to help SAVE THE WHALES ( ) Med ( ) Lg ( ) XL 9 :
I I
I I
| I
I I
I I
I I

and $____ for my order.
Make check payable to: ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE (D.C. residents add 6% sales tax)
Name (please print)
Address
City State Zip

 

 

 

 




 

\Wftxfﬁtsﬁci \

.‘ll '1 {.445l1f‘

. V
ﬁ.!\x‘l\lf. ~ , .... a

 

,1
1
¥
.
u 4.. . .
~ .. .
.
«

 




 




RAIDERS DISCOVER
A DEN OF WUES

DEFIANT DEALER. Aroused by
early-morning raid on his animal
compound at White Hall,, Md., Lester
Brown confronts Frank McMahon,
who represented the Humane Society.

NEW ARRIVAL. This woebegone
springer spaniel was one of only a
handful of dogs in Brown’s inventory
of over 100 animals that appeared to
be ﬁt. Obviously he hadjust got there.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

CHAINED PUPPY. Skin and bones
and not much else is all that is left
of this young beagle, staked out in
Brown‘s yard. Beagles are rated by

FEEBLE COLLIE. Too weak to crawl
to the frozen entrails scattered in Mr.
Brown‘s yard, this collie was not res-
cued. The humane society could ﬁt

only 28 of the worst cases in its truck. most dog dealers as a “hot item."

CRAMMED CRATES. In a shed be-
hind Brown‘s house, dogs. pigeons
and other creatures were jammed into
ﬁlthy coops. The only food in sight
was the stale bread piled in a washtub.

CONTINUED

 

 

 




DISMAL SIGHT. Some of the 103
dogs on the raided property stand
chained to wooden boxes. The yard is

a clutter of sheds, lumber and junked
cars. In foreground are frozen en-
trails, the usual ration for the dogs.

FROZEN DOG. In the raid on
Brown’s compound the police found
this female dog frozen inside a box.

THE GRISLY EVIDENCE

n a bright but cold morning, the
raiding party of Maryland State
Police and Humane Society agents
swooped into Lester W. Brown’s
place in White Hall, Md., not far
from Baltimore. Police and agents
began moving about the cluttered
property that was piled with boxes
and junked cars and function—
ing as a concentration camp for
dogs. One oﬁ‘icer began a notebook
of observations: “lndescribably
ﬁlthy conditions . . . inhumane
environment . . . dogs chained to

HEADED FOR SHELTER. One Of
28 sick dogs rescued in raid is hoist-
ed by Mrs. Helen Crews of the Bal-
timore County Humane Society into
a truck for trip to animal shelter.

small boxes, many too small to
hold them . . . common framed
pens covered with chicken wire . . .
dogs have to lie in their own or-
ganic waste . . . far too many dogs
to meet even the minimum stand-
ards of being humane or sanitary.”

The raid was at. the behest of
the Humane Society of the United
States, which, in its constant sur-
veillance of places like Brown’s
around the country, had sent one
of its agents to check conditions
at Brown’s twice within the past
year. The agent posed as a dog
buyer and got enough evidence to
swear out the search warrant used
in the raid.

The raiders heard dogs barking,
but only a few were making the
noise. Many of the dogs were able

 




 

BRINGS 29 CHARGES 0F CRUELTY

only to sit or lie down, immobil-
ized by the cold, by sickness and
disease and by inhumane treat-
ment for how long nobody knows.
On Brown’s back porch the po-
lice found 15 chicken crates piled
in disarray. In the midst was a
bucket of dirty water and an old
galvanized tub partially ﬁlled with
food that deﬁed description but
seemed to consist of dried bread
and meal of some kind. Three of
the crates were jammed full of pi-
geons; others contained raccoons,
skunks. eats. a ground squirrel and
a passel of puppies. In one crate
were two large dogs that could nei-
ther stand up nor move because
the crate was too small. When
the dogs were removed and set on
the ground, neither could walk.

 

Most ofthe state policemen who
took part in the raid were hard-
ened to almost anything from
years of experience, but they spoke
among themselves in terms of per-
sonal outrage, especially those
who had pets oftheir own at home.
The veterinarian who came along
to identify sick dogs was infuriat-
ed by what he saw: a scrawny bea—
gle clawing and chewing at one of
the piles of frozen entrails that lay
everywhere in Brown‘s yard. An-
other dog licking desperately at a
dish of water that was frozen solid.
Then Frank McMahon, Humane
Society ﬁeld director, lifted the
burlap covering of a dog box and
exclaimed, “Deader than hell!” [11-
side was a large hound frozen to
death (above). They had to tear

 

the box apart to get the dog out.
Soon two trucks from the Balti-
more County Humane Society
pulled up and began loading the
28 dogs that were most obviously
sick. These were taken to the ani-
mal shelter. Left behind were some
75 dogs. their fate still up to Mr.
Brown. The 71-year-old dog deal—
er was charged with 28 counts of
cruelty, one for each of the sick
dogs. And there was a 29th charge
—for the dog that froze to death.
MICHEL SILVA

 

WARNING TO THIEVES. Angered by
the disappearances of their family
pets in Clarke County, Va., Mrs.
William Mitchell and her neighbors
put up signs to discourage thieves.

CONTINUED

 




 

TWICE STOLEN. Tiny is a pure-
bred English setter belonging to
G. R. Lloyd of Boyce, Va. One
day last August, Lloyd found
Tiny’s chain cut in the backyard.
When he heard the dog was at
the local pound, he set out to re-
claim her, only to be told she
had been stolen again. The Ani-
mal Rescue League of Reading,
Pa. traced her to the National
Institutes of Health in Bethes—
da, Md. They had purchased
her from a Pennsylvania dealer.

MED SCHOOL ESCAPE. He
has no fancy bloodlines, but to
the Thomas Connollys of New-
ton, Mass. Lancer is the family
pooch. The dog was picked up
and impounded one day after
delivering the Connolly children
to school. After 10 days he was
sold to Harvard Medical School,
but during a transfer of quarters
he chewed through his. leash and
escaped. He struck out for home,
over 20 miles away—and made
it. He was still wearing his Har-
vard Medical School tag (above)
and the family let him keep it.

 

REPRIEVED PET. Reds is a
year—old Irish setter who van—
ished one day from her Phila-
delphia neighborhood. She was
sold to a hospital in New York
which cooperates with humane
societies seeking the return of sto—
len pets. A doctor spotted Reds
as such a dog and called an ani-
mal rescue league into the case.
Several people came to claim
Reds, but when the Grill family
of Philadelphia appeared, the
dog went into a spasm of joy.
So did six-year-old Kelly Ann.

     

I

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
   

 




 

(it 3 plus a do} at} dithe‘ chain.
‘ ' counterparts .311 Over the US. Unscrupu-
‘leale‘rsg’fftaking adVantag'e, _of the growing de-
' '- * ‘ tamed _ ,l're‘séarfch' ' '

'4
‘-
)

 




 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE P.O. Box 3650 Washington, D.C. 20007-0150

Telephone: (202) 337-2332 Fax: (202) 338-9478
email: awi@igc.apc.org

Dear Teacher:

Enclosed is the whale poster which you requested. I hope you
will encourage your students to learn about the different species
of whales and dolphins (there are 93 cetacean species in all) and
to take an active part in seeking their protection.

Norway has defied decisions of the International Whaling
Commission (IWC) and broken the moratorium on commercial whaling.
They are killing minke whales for profit and also for so-called
"scientific research."

At the last meeting of the IWC, the assembled countries voted 23
to l to create a whale sanctuary in the Antarctic. Japan alone
voted against the sanctuary. And now that nation has filed a
"reservation" which will allow them to continue killing hundreds
of whales under the aegis of "science" and bring the meat back to
Japan where it commands a lucrative market.

The whales need your help! Please encourage your students to
write to the Ambassadors of Norway and Japan urging those
countries to stop killing whales. The Ambassadors may be
addressed as follows:

The Ambassador of Norway The Ambassador of Japan
2720 - 34th Street 2520 Massachusetts Avenue
Washington, D. C. 20008 Washington, D. C. 20008

If you want more information, we can send you articles from the
AWI Quarterly. The whole history of the campaign to save the

whales from 1972 onwards is detailed in Whales_y§._Whaler§,
available for $5.00 from AWI.

Thanks for your help!
Sincerely,

Christine Stevens
President

Enclosures

® Printed on recycled paper

 




 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE P.o. Box 3050 Washington, 0c. 200070150

Telephone: (202) 337-2332 Fax: (202) 338-9478
email: awi@igc.apc.org

Dear Student:

Enclosed is the whale poster which you requested. I hOpe it will
help you learn about the different species of whales and dolphins
(there are 93 cetacean species in all) and encourage you to take
an active part in seeking their protection.

Norway has defied decisions of the International Whaling
Commission (IWC) and broken the moratorium on commercial whaling.
They are killing minke whales for profit and also for so-called
"scientific research."

At the last meeting of the IWC, the assembled countries voted 23
to l to create a whale sanctuary in the Antarctic. Japan alone
voted against the sanctuary. And now that nation has filed a
"reservation" which will allow them to continue killing hundreds
of whales under the aegis of "science" and bring the meat back to
Japan where it commands a lucrative market.

The whales need your help! Please write to the Ambassadors of
Norway and Japan urging those countries to stop killing whales.
The Ambassadors may be addressed as follows:

The Ambassador of Norway The Ambassador of Japan
2720 - 34th Street 2520 Massachusetts Avenue
Washington, D. C. 20008 Washington, D. C. 20008

If you want more information, we can send you articles from the
AWI Quarterly. The whole history of the campaign to save the

available for $5.00 from AWI.

Thanks for your help!

Sincerely,

/@Z/; a. 5 ../- "D - - -
‘V' a /v{.,/"}’ [CLOCK C ‘éiq 6,,{yv-Cxﬂ

k”

Christine Stevens
President

Enclosures

 




I ) ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

PO Box 3650 Phone: (202) 337-2332, Fax: (202) 338—9478
Washington, DC 20007 email: awi@animalwelfare.com

 

Dear

Thank you for your interest in the Animal Welfare Institute.
Enclosed is information in response to your request.

Please let me know if we can be of further assistance.

Sincerely,

Nell Naughton
Mail Secretary

® Printed on recycled paper

 




 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

P.O. Box 3650 ‘Washington, D.C. 20007-0150

Telephone: (202) 337-2332 Fax: (202) 338-9478
email: awi@igc.apc.org

Dear Friend:

The Animal Welfare Institute (AWI) was founded in 1951 to reduce the suffering inﬂicted on
animals by humans. AWI is a research and educational organization, publishing books and
pamphlets which are distributed free on request to libraries, schools, universities, chiefs of police
and humane societies; or sold at cost. Primary concerns include mistreatment of laboratory

animals, cruel trapping devices, factory farming, protection of whales and endangered species, and
capture of exotic birds for the commercial pet trade.

AWI members receive a subscription to the A W] Quarterly, which features animal welfare news,
reports by undercover investigators, and guidelines for letter-writing camp aigns. For more
information on helping the children with a letter-writing campaign, our companion organization,
the Society for Animal Protective Legislation (PO. Box 3719, Washington, DC 20007) will send
you further suggestions.

AWI is a small, non-proﬁt association and must keep costs to a minimum. We encourage
educators and librarians to use us as an information resource, but we request that others pay for
the cost of printing and mailing. We ask that teachers send their classes’ requests all together so
they can be mailed in one mailing. We are unable to send classroom quantities of publications
gratis; however, we gladly send teachers and hbraries free single copies of requested materials for

classroom use, and additional quantities are available at cost. Enclosed are publications you may
ﬁnd useful.

We appreciate your interest and encourage you to continue stressing the importance of humane
treatment of animals to your colleagues, encouraging children to respect animals, and involving
them early in supporting animal well-being. Thanksfor your good eﬁ‘orts!

Sincerely,

(mi; @320

Christine Stevens
President

CSzlh

Enclosures

 




Parent:
Please ask your child to take this
package to his/her teacher to share

with the class. ' Thank you.

Parent:
Please ask your child to take this
package to his/her teacher to share

with the class. Thank you.

Parent:
Please ask your child to take this
package to his/her teacher to share

with the class. Thank you.

Parent:
Please ask your child to take this
package to his/her teacher to share

with the class. Thank you.

Parent:

Please ask your child to take this
package to his/her teacher to share
with the class. Thank you.

Parent:
Please ask your child to take this
package to his/her teacher to share

with the class. Thank you.

Parent:
Please ask your child to take this
package to his/her teacher to share

with the class. Thank you.

Parent:
Please ask your child to take this
package to his/her teacher to share

with the class. Thank you.

Parent:
Please ask your child to take this
package to his/her teacher to share

with the class. Thank you.

Parent:
Please ask your child to take this
package to his/her teacher to share

with the class. Thank you.

Parent:
Please ask your child to take this
package to his/her teacher to share

with the class. Thank you.

Parent:
Please ask your child to take this
package to his/her teacher to share

with the class. Thank you.

Parent:
Please ask your child to take this
package to his/her teacher to share

with the class. Thank you.

Parent:
Please ask your child to take this
package to his/her teacher to share

with the class. Thank you.

Parent:
Please ask your child to take this
package to his/her teacher to share

with the class. Thank you.

Parent:
Please ask your child to take this
package to his/her teacher to share

with the class. Thank you.

Parent:
Please ask your child to take this
package to his/her teacher to share

with the class. Thank you.

Parent:

Please ask your child to take this
package to his/her teacher to share
with the class. Thank you.

Parent:

Please ask your child to take this
package to his/her teacher to share
with the class. Thank you.

Parent:

Please ask your child to take this
package to his/her teacher to share
with the class. Thank you.

Parent:

Please ask your child to take this
package to his/her teacher to share
with the class. Thank you.

Parent:

Please ask your child to take this
package to his/her teacher to share
with the class. Thank you.

Parent:

Please ask your child to take this
package to his/her teacher to share
with the class. Thank you.

Parent:

Please ask your child to take this
package to his/her teacher to share
with the class. Thank you.

Parent:

Please ask your child to take this
package to his/her teacher to share
with the class. Thank you.

 




HOW TO LIVEN UP YOUR CLASSROOM WITH A POD OF WHALES

Some class sessions devoted to programs on the whales can be
valuable in getting across simple scientific concepts to children by
combining our knowledge of the whale with dance, mime, painting and
writing. The child's understanding and awareness of the world around
him can grow from this.

Tamar Griggs teaches in the public schools of Vancouver a
program she has developed and calls Whale Workshops. She says,
”Science is not an isolated entity that is learned solely through
memory and experiment. It is integrated into a creative environment
that focuses on the child. Our approach involves the direct experience
of the children: reaching the imagination and touching the feelings
as well as the intellect." '

Miss Griggs has given us permission to reprint excerpts from her
talk at the National Whale Symposium, University of Indiana, November,
1975.

”Whale Workshops grew out of my exploring just what it is to be
alive as a human being. The subjects we cover are biology, myth,
evolution, whaling and conservation. The expressions that we work
through are dance, drama, painting, and writing. We work with
feelings, imagination, intuition, and thought. It is a total involve—
ment for children.

”The aims of the Workshop are twofold: l) to help children
become aware of nature by giving them an immediate experience which
awakens interest and
concern for the natural
world, and 2) to help
children develop their
inner resources. At the
core of the workshops,
therefore, is the child
and whales. Both are
the focal point. In the
workshops they are inter—
woven so that at times
the child stands outside
of the whale, looking at
factual information, and
at other times he is
”inside” the whale.

There is a dynamic
connection between the
child and whales: gut
there is a magically huge
creature we are studying
whose survival is directly
affected by humans. And
yet the whales are inside
us because we can relate
to them only by our
personal feelings and
thoughts.

”We work largely
through the children's
bodies because it is a
vivid way of getting the
children involved. We
ask the children to
feel their own backbones
and to imagine what it
would be like if they
couldn't bend or twist
their backs. Whales are
incredibly supple and Photo by Tamar Griggs

graceful in their motion.

(over) Making a spout and blowhole

 




-2-

\*

”We pull the shades down and ask the children to curl up on the
floor with their eyes closed and to imagine the entire room is filled
with water — slowly they are to grow as big as the room and swim
around as if they were whales. After they have had this experience,
they are much more sympathetic to others.

“One of the most surprising things about whales is that they
are mammals, yet they spend their entire life in the oceans. Being
mammals, they breathe air. So we work a lot on breath with the

children. Here's how it goes:

a) Put your hands on your ribs, feel their shape, how they
expand and contract as you breathe.

b) If you were a whale, where would your blowhole be?. Close
your eyes, put your fingers on your nose and slowly move
them up you forehead, over the top of your head to the
back of your neck. That's where your blowhole would be if
you were a whale.

Now, what happens when the whale comes to the surface to
breathe? What does it do? (let out air) What happens to
its blowhole? (opens) So it opens its blowhole and lets
the air out. Then what does it do? (breathes in..and?...
closes its blowhole). Whales make a tremendous sound as
they let their air out. On quiet days it can be heard for
several miles.

Can one of you make the sound of the whale breathing?
Everyone try it on your own.

How could you make a blowhole out of your hands?

Let's try to make the sound of one whale breathing. First
let me see your hands above your head. Open them and close
them. At the count of three you will hold your breath, close
your blowhole and when 10 seconds are up (I'll count them)
you are all to let out your air, inhale quickly and close
your blowhole. READY?

”This may develop into making a blowhole and spout out of the
children's bodies. And eventually you may build an entire whale
with each child becoming a part of the animal.

”This is a graphic way of learning. By feeling your own body
and getting a sense of its shape, you can better appreciate the
form of an alien species. You are identifying with another life form
through exploring the differences and similarities between you.” And
pretty soon you can have a classroom where .....

All the whales are swimming together
And eating together

And bumping heads together

And having fun together with pleasure*

*There's a Sound in the Sea: a film and manual (film script and teacher's
resource unit on whales) may be purchased for $75.00 from the writer and
producer Mr. Michael Robert Hoyt, 3922 Rickover Road, Silver Spring,
Maryland 20902. May also be rented from the Defenders of Wildlife,

1244 Nineteenth Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20036 for $35.00.

by elementary school children are available in an exhibition through
General Whale, P.O. Box Whales, Alameda, California 95401.

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

P.O. Box 3650 Washington, D.C. 20007

 




