QJCnifeh fatafesa $3911an

WASHINGTON. D.C. 20510

June 28, l977

Hrs. Clifford C. McAleenan
Post Office Box 9939
Aspen, Colorado 81611

Dear Mrs. McAleenan:

Thanks very much for letting me know your views concerning the incidental
killing of dolphin by tuna fishermen.

One June l, the House of Representatives passed H.R. 6970 which addresses
the tuna/dolphin controversy. The bill, as finally passed, is a compromise be~
tween the tuna industry and those favoring stricter controls on the taking of
dolphin. Some of the provisions include: a 68,910 quota for killing or injuring
dolphins ~ this is 10,000 more than the environmentalists and the administration
wanted and 10,000 less than H.R. 6970 originally proposed; authorization that
the Secretary of Commerce reduce this quota in 1978 and l979; a requirement that
a federal observer be on all tuna boats; establishment of fines and penalties
to discourage accidental dolphin deaths; and, finally, the banning of importa~
tion of fish caught by methods that result in immortality of mammals in excess
of U. 5. standards.

Legislation has been introduced here in the Senate pertaining to the
tuna/dolphin situation, but no hearings have been scheduled.

The problem is one which sincerely concerns me. Ideally, we should d9,
everythinq possible to reduce the porpoise mortality to zero: and I 1011.:ump—
port only those proposals which point toward thiq anai at the 33mg time, 1,1
SETTEVE‘WE‘have to be fair and reasonable in what demands we place on the tuna
industryhf"f_think this is a Situation wh1cn can be worked out, and I intend
to do what I can to ensure that when legislation reaches the Senate a prudent
and equitable proposal is eventually adopted.

 

 

Your thoughts have been most helpful, and I hOpe you will continue to
let me hear from you.

With kind regards, //’“a

Sinc el/

é? J//i%<;z/:¢L4/ 4,
oyd Ha kelJl

United Sta es Senator

 




FLOYD K. HASKELL
COLORADO

Q'Cnﬂeb ${afes ﬁenafe

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20510

March 27, 1976

Catherine Scott
525 Valley View Dr.
Boulder, Co. 80302

Dear Catherine:

Thank you for your recent communication expressing your support for the
Animal Welfare Improvement Act of 1976.

Ehe Senate passed this important legislation on December 18 of last year,
with my support. The House of Representatives rather than act on their own bill
passed the Senate version instead, making some changes. A conference reconciling
these differences will be held so the bill can be sent to the President for his
signature.

Again, I appreciate your taking the time to write and hope you will continue to
share your views with me on matters of interest and concern to you.

Best wishes,

ﬂ»,,iirm~"”’ Sincerely,
f/ I,

{‘ /

Floyd K. Haskell 3
United States §enator

 




People for Haske ”Committee
P. O. Box 626

I. (I 802-01
Denver C0 013 0 February 7, 1977

DearFHend:

People for Haskell will honor US. Senator Floyd K. Haskell of Colorado at a reception Thursday,
March 17, 1977. We would like you to join us.

During his tenure in the Senate, Floyd Haskell has earned the respect of his colleagues as a man
whose careful judgment has contributed significantly to the work of the Senate. His willingness to listen and to
consider other points of view has been evident in his work as a member of the important Committees on
Finance and Interior (now known as the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources).

His legislative accomplishments are many. In my opinion, however, he most deserves our admiration and
support for his efforts to restore integrity to government at a time when many citizens have looked at the
‘ Congress with cynicism and despair. He has made a practice of disclosing his own financial interests
and income taxes and has led the move to get others to do the same. Last fall he began an effort to remove

from the political arena the process of selecting Federal judges and is now working closely with the new
administration to bring this much needed reform to fruition.

I believe it will be important to the nation to return this good man to the Senate in 1978. That is why I am
pleased to join People for Haskell and the distinguished sponsors of this event in asking you to stop by
and say hello to Floyd Haskell.

, g, The date again is Thursday, March 17, 1977, from 5:30 to 7:30 P. M. at the Monocle Restaurant,
? 107 D. Street, N. E, Washington, D. C. The cost is $100 perticket. A return card and envelope are enclosed

Sincerely,

Richard M. Schmidt, Jr., Host
Salute to Haskell Reception

Sponsors:

The Honorable Walter F. Mondale, Vice President of the United States
The Honorable Robert C. Byrd, Majority Leader of the US. Senate

Sen. Alan Cranston Sen. Henry M. Jackson Sen. Edmund S. Muskie

Sen. Gary Hart Sen. Edward M .Kennedy Sen. Gaylord Nelson

Sen. Hubert H. Humphrey Sen. Russell B. Long Sen. Jennings Randolph

Sen. Daniel K. lnouye Sen. George McGovern Sen. Abraham Ribicoff
Sen. Howard Metzenbaum

A copy of our report is filed with the Federal Election Commission and is
available for purchase from the Federal Election Commission, Washington, DC.

 




’Panifeh ﬁfaiez ﬁenafe

WASHINGTON. D.C. 20510

May 19, 1977

Mrs. Clifford C. McAieenan
Post Office Box 9939
Aspen, Coiorado -81611

Dear Mrs. McAieenan:

I appreciate knowing of your concern about the kiiiing of
doiphin by tuna fishermen.

Legisiation has been introduced in the Senate (S. 373) to
amend the Marine Mammai Protection Act to aiiow more fiexibiiity
for the tuna fishermen in the taking of doiphin incidental to
fishing for yeiiowfin tuna.

Meanwhiie, the Mationai Marine Fisheries Service has recent»
1y issued regulations aiiowing a 1977 quota of 59,050 porpoises by
the tuna fishermen. This is a 24 percent reduction from the 1976

quota of 78,000.

I beiieve the 1977 quota is sufficientiy 1ibera1 and can
assure you that shouid S. 373 or simiiar 1egisiation come before
the Senate I wiii oppose it.

Mith kind regards, ,
(Sincereiy,

///M/

1 Fioy K. Haskeii
United States Senator

FKszmd

 




FLOYD K. HASKELL

COLORADO

”PJCnifeb ﬁfaies ﬁnnaic

WASHINGTON. D.C. 20510

May 6, 1976

Mrs. Catherine Scott
525 Valley View Drive
Boulder, Colorado 80302

Dear Catherine:

Thank you for your thoughtful letter concerning
my support of the Animal Welfare Improvement Act.

I was pleased to support this measure which has
now become a public law.

Best wishes.

; ..
0,. .
\. . ,, amah“

 




FLOYD K. HASKELL
COLORADO

’PJCuiieh ﬁfafes ﬁenafe

WASHINGTON. D.C. 20510

March 1, 1974

Ms. Eva Lindsey
12280 East Arkansas Avenue
Aurora, Colorado 80012

Dear Ms. Lindsey:

I appreciate your concern for the
continued need for strong Endangered Species
legislation. I certainly agree with you on this
matter and hope that any change in the House Com—
mittee structure will not affect this type of
legislation.

The Senate does not have any juris-
diction over reorganization of the House Com—
mittees.

Best wishes.

United States Senato

FKH/rbd

 




' COLoRADo ﬂJ’ “ﬂy .
QJCnﬂeb Sﬁafez $¢naf¢

M4 WASHIN:T03N, [127230510
‘ ugus
L) Z15 {’1 a

Mr. Oliver V. Ross
11680 Independence Avenue
Golden, Colorado 80h01

Dear Oliver:

Thank you very much for your letter favoring legislation which will ban ,
the use of poisons and leg-hold traps as a technique to control predators such
as coyotes.

As you know there are two bills before the Senate Commerce Committee
which are relative to this subject. 8-819, which was introduced by Senator
Bayh, would prohibit the use of poisons, and 8-887, which was presented by
Senator Robert C. Byrd, will drastically restrict the use of predator
control poisons. The Commerce Committee has already held extensive hearings
on these bills. Because public lands are involved, the Public Lands subcoma
mittee of the Interior Committee, of which I am Chairman, was asked to con—
sider the bills as well.

Early in June my Subcommittee held hearings in Sun Valley and in
Casper. We heard a full range of excellent testimony from witnesses who
were both Opposed to and in favor of poison control legislation. The record
of these hearings is currently being finalized, and when it is completed it
will be carefully studied by all of the members of the Subcommittee. After
consideration of the record we will be better able to determine what, if
any, legislative action is needed.

It is important to note, however, that action will not be taken until
the record of our last hearing is fully studied. I am, therefore, pleased
that you took the time to write to me on this subject. Because it is only
through the Opinions of interested groups and individuals that we will get
a complete understanding of this subject.

I have taken the liberty of keeping your letter in the Subcommittee
files, so that it may be referred to by all of the members.

Again, thank you for your advice.

incerely,
ﬂ /\

H sk 1.1
United States Senator

FKH/jnb

 




FLOYD K. HASKELL

COLORADO

aniieh $fafe5 ﬁenafe

WASHINGTON. D.C. 20510

July 3l, l973

Mr. Oliver V. Ross
ll680 Independence Avenue
Golden, Colorado 8040l

Dear Mr. Ross:

Thank you for writing to me concerning the
Laboratory Animal Welfare Act. I am currently
awaiting further information on this matter from
the Department of Agricolture. As soon as I have
their reply, I will get back in touch with you.

Sincerely,

”0%
e

\

h;;%%) . a
;:?/ d States Senator

 




FLOYD K. HASKELL
COLORADO

gCnifeh ﬁfafeg ﬁenafe

WASHINGTON. 0.6. 20510

July 23, 1973

Mr. C. A. Scott .
525 Vaiiey View Drive
Boulder, Colorado 80302

Dear Mr. Scott:

Thank you for bringing the Laboratory Anima]
Neifare Act to my attention.

I have requested further information on this
Act from the Department of Agricuiture. I wiii be
back in touch with vou when I have received their

repiy.

Sincerely,

ﬂag

Unit? tates Senator

Fig Hask

FKH/rd

 




FLOYD K. HASKELL

COLORADO

’QJCnifeb ﬁiafez ﬁenafe

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20510

VMay 23, 1973

Society for Animal Protective
Organization

Ms. Christine Stevens

1686 34th Street, N. N.

Washington, D. C. 20007

Dear Ms. Stevens:

When the Senate considers S. 1081, the Federai Lands
Rights-of—Nay Act of 1973, severai Senators intend to offer an

amendment that wouid:

(1) direct a fina] study of trans-Canada and trans-
Aiaska routes for transportation of Aiaska North
Siope oii,

(2) direct that dipiomatic negotiations be undertaken
with Canada for such a transportation system, and

(3) reserve the fina] route decision to Congress.

I invite your views on this measure. Wou1d you favor an
amendment aiong these lines?
SfiﬁﬁkeﬁidiappreCTate your repiy by may at“ if you have any
additional comments, I wouid appreciate hearing them.

n-
””00””

(””"w”;: Slpcereiy,

n1ted”State Senator

FKszra

 




FLOYD K. HASKELL
COLORADO

’PJCnifeb $iaies $enaie

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20510

January 26, 1973

Ms. Olga Hoback
616 Oakdale Ave.
Chicago, Illinois 60657

Dear Ms. Hoback,

Thank you for your letter expressing your
support for the executive order signed by President
Nixon last year which banned the use of a large number
of poisons on public lands in the western states.

I am trying to obtain all the information I can
as a new Senator about the continuation of the ban, and
I am glad to have your Opinion on it.

Conservationists have advised me that they
see the order as a forceful and needed measure to protect
wildlife. On the other hand, I am hearing from sheep
ranchers in Colorado who see the ban as unwise because
it would leave the sheep exposed to predators.

I fully understand the interests of both groups.
To date, however, I have been convinced that the dangers
of using poisons is great and is not counterbalanced by
any necessity that would allow their use.

Sincerely,
buffing“, . z J ..
. j M» I." f! f! I; if: {if /‘///Xf§;

.9

Floyd Ki Hash ll

FKH2ns

 




HASKELL, Senator Floyd K. R. - Colorado

New 1973~ 93rd Congress

 




gfnifeh ﬁfafez ﬁenafe

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20510

August 21, l978

Marian F. McAleean
Post Office Box 9939
Aspen, Colorado 81611

Dear Marian:

Thank you very much for contacting me to express your strong support
of the Endangered Species Act.

He must undertake the ethical and moral responsibilty to pass on to
future generations, in as pristine a state as possible, what we in turn have
inherited. The loss of species has accelerated since prehistoric times,
when one Species was extinguished every 10,000 years. From the year l600,
the rate increased to one every l,000 years. Now from one to twenty species
are eliminated from our environment every single year ~- and the cause is man.

Initially, the Senate considered an amendment to the Act offered by
Senator Stennis which would have exempted many projects from the Act. This
amendment was soundly defeated and the Baker-Culver amendment to create an
Endangered Species Committee was accepted. This amendment, supported by the
National Wildlife Federation, retains the viability of the Act and makes it
that much stronger.

The House and Senate will have a conference soon and decide the final
resolution of the Act. I will vote only fer a conference report which re—
tains the responsibilty of man to protect the species of this earth.

It is extremely helpful to know of your concerns, and I hope you continue
to let ne hear from you. I feel strongly about protecting our enviroment
and will support only those proposals which I feel work toward this end.

Nith kind regards,

loydtKgl /
United Sta_ 5 Senator

FKH :j fh

 




\s 129070:

The» motion t1) lay on the table was
agreed" to. g \-

4.?

 

OF BUSINESS.
3. BYRD. Mr: President,

ORDER

Mr. ROBERT
what is the pen
Senate, if any?

The PRE D _
no pendingb ' ss.
~ Mr. ROBER C. BYRD. Mr. President,

I‘thank t

EAGLES

   
      
 

 

SS, ARAP-

ST WILDER
AHO, AND . WHITE RIVER NA-
TIONAL FORESTS

Mr. ROBERT C. BYRD. Mr. President,
I ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate proceed to the consideration of Cal-
endar No. 434, S. 1864. ,

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The bill
will be stated by title. _

The assistant legislative clerk read as
follows: , ,

A bill (S. 1864-) to designate the Eagles
Nest Wilderness, Arapaho, and White River
National Forests in the State of Colorado.

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection to the consideration of the bill?
There being no objection, the Senate
proceeded to consider the bill which had

been reported from the Cemmittee on .

Insular Affairs with amendments onpage
1, line 8, after the word. “dated”, strike
out “May” and insert “October”; on page
2, line 5, after the word “and”, strike
out “twenty-ﬁve” and insert “twenty—
eight”; and, in line 6, after the word
“thousand”, insert “three hundred and
seventy—four”; so as to make the bill
read: 7

Be it enacted by the Senate and House
of Representatives of the United States of
America in Congress assembled, That, in ac-
cordance with subsection 3 (b) of the Wilder-
ness Act (78 Stat. 891; 16 U.S.C. 1132(b)),
the area classiﬁed as the Gore Range—Eagles
Nest Primitive Area, with the proposed addi-
tions thereto and deletions therefrom, as
generally depicted on a map entitled “Eagles
Nest Wilderness—Proposed”, dated October
1973, which is on ﬁle and available for public
inspection in the ofﬁce of the Chief, Forest
Service, Department of Agriculture, is hereby
designated as the “Eagles Nest Wilderness”
withinand as part of the Arapaho and White
River National Forests comprising an area
of approximately one hundred and twenty-
eight thousand three hundred and seventy-
four acres. ,

SEC. 2. As soon as practicable after this
Act takes effect, the Secretary of Agriculture
shall ﬁle a map and a legal description of
the Eagles Nest Wilderness with the Interior
and Insular Affairs Committees of the United
States Senate and House of Representatives,
and such description shall have the same
force and effect as if included in this Act:
Provided, however, That correction of clerical
and typographical errors in such legal de-
scription and map may be made.

SEC. 3. The Eagles Nest Wilderness shall
\be administered by the Secretary of Agri-
culture in accordance with the provisions
of the Wilderness Act governing areas desig-
nated by that Act as wilderness areas, except
that any reference in such provisions to the
effective date of the Wilderness Act shall be
deemed to be a reference to the effective
date of this Act.

SEC. 4. The previous classiﬁcation of‘ the
Gore Range-Eagles Nest Primitive Area is
hereby abolished. .

ling question before the

OFFICER. There is-

 

 
 

\

 

CONGRESSIONAL arconp— SENATE

Mr. ROBERT C. 'BYRD’. Mr. President,
I‘ suggest the absence“ of a quorum;

ThePRESIDING OFFICER. The clerk
will ca'lli the" mill! ' -'

The legislative clerk proceeded to call
the roll.

Mr. ROBERT C. BYRD. Mr. President,
I ask unanimous consent that the order
for the quorum call be rescinded.

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without.
objectibn, it is so ordered. The Senator
from‘Colorado is recognized.

Mfr. HASKELL. Mr. President, the
pending bill was introduced by my senior
colleague (Mr- DOMINICK) and me. It
creates‘the‘ Eagles Nest Wilderness—a
128,374-acre wilderness area in the State
of Colorado approximately 60 miles west
of Denver.

The bill was reported unanimously
from the Committee on Interior and
Insular Affairs.

Mr. President, I reserve the remainder ““‘

of my time.

Mr. DOMINICK. Mr. President, will
the Senator yield?

Mr. HASKELL. I yield. _ ‘ . .

Mr. DOMINICK. Mr. President, thisis
largely for the RECORD. However, I want
to say to begin "with that I very much
appreciate my colleague’s bringing this
bill both before the subcommittee which
he chairs so ably and before the full com-
mittee and getting it to the ﬂoor. It is
a very good bill.

As we both know, the Denver Water
Board has been a little uptight about this
bill. They wanted me to ﬁnd out from
my colleague his opinion as to whether

'in the process of collecting water rights,

on which they have 'spent a considerable

‘ amount of money over a period (if years,

they will be able to operate underground
without disturbing the surface and,
therefore,,without disturbing the wilder-
ness area contemplated.

It is my understanding that they would
be able so to do for a collection system
in order to be able to use their water
rights which are excluded from the wil—
derness area.

Mr. HASKELL.’ Mr. President, I re-
spond to my senior colleague by reading
a section of the committee report. I
would refer my senior colleague to page
6 of the committee report at the bottom
of the page which reads as follows:

The deletions. would allow construction
and operation of the tunnel if, among other
things, Denver voters cast a favorable. vote
on the Water Board bond issue; . .

I point out to my senior colleague that
there is no question that the Denver
Water Board would prefer to have more
than they have received. There is no
question about that. However, on the
other! hand it was our attempt in the
subcommittee and in the full committee
to balance equities and to recognize the
need of a wilderness area—not to unduly
restrict its boundaries so that it would
no longer be a viable wilderness and at
the same time not to be unjust to the
Denver Water Board. \

I think that we have struck a balance
here. However, ,I would certainly say to

my senior- colleague '3 that proposed wil-r

derness- is by no means as small as the

Denver Water Board would have likediiiti.»

  

Wasnlus “V“ ’ -

Date. cm .1 l m

H

October 11, 1973.":

Mr. DOMINICK. Mr. President, I‘
Would agree with my junior colleague;
the manager of: the bill. .

I" believe that their main concern at",
this» time is to . be = able to have some, kinds.»
'of? record; indicating that, provided" they"
did -. not disturb the“ surface of the Wilé-
derness area, they would be able to con-- ‘
struct it underground within the wilder-
ness area. -

,This a kind of moot question. How-17
ever, it seems to me—that' in, the process .
of myconversations with them, the‘pur-
pose-of the wilderness area is to be able-

‘to preserve in‘a relatively unspoiledistate-V

the landscape which my, colleague and:
I could see while walking over it, and:
which I had been over several times, ..

without disturbing the animal: life, the. 3

bird life, and obviously the'horticultural'.
abundance there is in. that area. ’

It would seem to me that this would,»
be proper. However, it is something that
I wanted to get the Senator’s opinion on.

Mr. HASKELL. Yes; I- would 'readeUr-
ther from the committee report at the"
top of page 7 , completing the sentence,
the ﬁrst part of which I quoted earlier:

An environmental impact statement is
carefully prepared pursuant to section 1‘02
(2) (c) of the NationalEnvironmentaLPOliCy I
Act of 1969 (.83‘St’at. 852); and’clear. evidence‘
is supplied and' full assurance: is provided ‘
that the tunnel can be constructed and opera—A
ated without any. permanent? surfacedisturb- '
ance to, or any! permanent. damage to the f -
wilderness values of, the proposed wilder—
ness.

Mr. DOMINICK. Mr. President, I think ,,
that helps materially as. far as the
record is concerned. '

Once again, I congratulate my. col-
league for having done what I consideﬁ
to be a veryﬁne job in bringing out-a bi , .. _,
which could have been quite controver-e .
sial. .
_ Mr. HASKELL. Mr. President,»I thank
my senior colleague very much. ‘

Mr. McCLURE. Mr. President, would ‘
the Senator yield? '

Mr. HASKELL. I yield. .

Mr. McCLURE. Mr. President, I join.
in the commendation of the chairman of
the Public LandSubcommittee of the In-
terior and Insular Affairs Committee for
his handling of this legislation. 1' com-4'
mend both Senators from. Colorado for -
their leadership in: bringing to the» Con-4
gress a wilderness proposal which ap—-
pears to be fully justiﬁed. My purposegin
taking a little time today is to do the"-
same thing which I tried to do in the
subcommittee when this matter was ﬁrst
pending, to indicate as forcefully as I:
know how to do that we have to be very
careful in the evaluation of resource

pronosals which will reduce or subtract."

in any way from the resource base of,
our land. , .
' We are involved right now in a very
critical time of watching the events in
the Middle East for. a number of rea-
sons, not the least of? which, of'course,.
are moral and. humanitarian. concerns _
about what happens between the two,-

warring factions: and. our moral and? '

humanitarian. interest: inp'eople on both.

sides. of the: Israeli-Arab:"conﬂict...

We are~ also very» much concerned' .

about'What happensin' the: Middle EaSt. * . *'

 




October 11, 1973

because of . the lack of a suﬂicient and.

sufﬁciently developed energy base within
our own country. This has pointed a
very sharp ﬁnger at the practice which
has been all too evident in recent years
of expecting that we could Without ques-
tion depend upon the resources of other
. areas of the world, and that they would
without question provide us whatever our
dollars would induce them to part with
in terms of their natural resources.

But there are people within the Arab
world who are today saying, “We don’t
want your dollars; we- don’t care how
many dollars you give us for the oil, we
will not sell it to you.”

They have a variety of reasons, some
very justiﬁable, for making those state-
ments.

Some might ask, “What relationship
does that have to a wilderness proposal
in Colorado?”

Let me say only that it has no direct
relationship. It has to do only with our
understanding of our dependence upon
our resource base within this country to
remain in a free people. If we continue
to do what we have been doing for the
last several years, without regard to our
resource base increasing our dependence
upon foreign countries, then .we will lose
our freedom.

While this Eagle’s Nest Wilderness is
not involved in that kind of a conﬂict,
happily, because we did in the subcom-
mittee look to see if that kind of re-
source conﬂict was involved, and it is
fully supportable, nevertheless it needs
to be said, and said strongly, that we are
a resource-deﬁcient Nation today, be-
cause we have chosen to be a, resource-
deﬁcient Nation in terms of the develop-
ment of our own resources.

I think the conﬂict in the Middle East .

and the crisis in energy bring into sharp
focus the question of whether or not we
can continue to do what we have done in
recent years with basic resources in our
country, and maintain the ability to be
strong, in a wOrld that respects only
strength, if we want to maintain the
kinds of freedom that we as Americans
have enjoyed.

Again, I state my support for this leg-
islation, and commend the Senators
from Colorado for their proposal, and
also for their handling of this particular
legislation, because after the analysis
which was given to this bill in the sub-
committee, we were able to say and are
able to say on this ﬂoor today that we
haVe considered-the resources that will
be included within this wilderness, We
have considered the impact upon the re-
source base of this country, and we have
concluded that we can, in thisinstance,
safely, and properly designate'this as a
wilderness, as its highest and best use,
and one which we can all proudly sup-
port.

But, again, we must be conscious of
these decisions, and we must be aware
of what may happen to our Nation if
we are not. ‘ '

Mr. HASKELL. I would concur in the
comments of the Senator from Idaho,
and, just for the record—because, as the

Senator from Idaho has said, there is no

problem such as he mentions involved
here, but for the record, the US. Geo-

\

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD. —— SENATE

logical Survey made a 2-year ﬁeld in—
vestigation. Together with the Bureau
of Mines, they took rock samples, con-
ducted stream sedimentation tests, and
undertOok 52 man-weeks of foot tra-
verses of the area. They concluded—I
refer to Geological Survey Bulletin 1319—
C, on page C—3—as follows: .

In summary, the Gore.Range-Eagle’s Nest
Primitive Area contains no knOwn ore
deposits and no geological evidence exists to
indicate a likelihood of hidden deposits
below it.

So, as the Senator from Idaho has said,
no such problem exists in relation to
the Eagles Nest Wildnerness, but I cer-

tainly concur with his thought that we '

must be jealous of our national resources.

Mr. DOMINICK. Mr. President, will
the Senator yield?

Mr. HASKELL. Certainly. ‘ '

Mr. DOMINICK. I just want to com-
pliment the Senator from Idaho for
bringing this point up. I think he is
totally accurate, and it is a subject on
which I have given, I think, somewhat in
excess of 50 talks, to alert the people of
my own State to the problem which he
has mentioned.

This bill and the Flat Tops bill, which
I» assume will be coming up shortly,- have
no geologic value insofar as natural re-
sources are concerned. I am glad to say
that my colleague and- I are doing our
best to avoid stumbling into that pit-
fall.

Mr. McCLURE. Will the Senator yield 7

further?
Mr. HASKELL. I yield.

Mr. McCLURE. I thank both Senators
for their comments, and want to point
to just one further thing:

I guess the USGS has made a study

here and it has been somewhat more ex-
tensive than some of theirother studies.
I am hot critical of the USGS; I think
they are doing a ﬁne job within the lim-
its of their personnel and budget. But

just as we are sometimes penny—wise and ‘

pound-foolish in other areas, I think we
come dangerously close to that on the
money which is allocated to our resource
management agencies. The USGS has
been asked to make surveys which they
have not been able to do as well as they
admit they should do—in other areas, not
in this one—and some of the wilderness
surveys that they have made, of those
which were designated under the origi-
nal Wilderness Act, whereby any test
superﬁcial, and the USGS would be the
ﬁrst to admit that they were superﬁcial,
but they were the best they could do in
the time and with the personnel and the
funding given to them by Congress.
We are similarly underfunding the
management functions given to the US.
Forest Service and the Bureau of Land
Management, and doing so to our detri-
ment. There will be an immutable bal-
ance drawn, one that we cannot escape
no matter how much we might wish.
Some of those balances'may not be ap—
parent during the period of service of
those who serve in the Congress of. the
United States today, and because of that
we may escape having to face the conse-
quences of our own misjudgments; but
certainly that balance will be drawn, and
the balance sheet will show the results of

S 19071-

the failure to provide our resource man-
agement agencies with sufﬁcient money
to manage properly today and to give us
the kind of information upon which we ‘
can make properly informed judgments. ,

Again I think this particular proposal
today is not subject to the faults that I
have just outlined, but I think we as a
Nation and certainly those of us who
represent the people of this country in
the Congress of the United States had
better wake up to what is happening and
start requiring of ourselves as well as our
citizens a better understanding of re-
source management.

I thank the Senator for yielding.

‘ Mr. HASKELL. There are several com-
mittee amendments. I ask unanimous
consent that they be agreed to en bloc.

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, the ~committee amendments
are agreed to en bloc.

The bill is open to further amendment.
If there be no further amendment to be
proposed, the question is on the engross—
ment of the amendments and the third
reading of the bill.

The amendments were ordered to be
engrossed and the bill to be read a third
time. t

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The bill .
having been read the third time, the
question is, shall it pass?

The bill (S. 1864) was passed, as fol-
lows: ’
S. 1864 ’

Be it enacted by the Senate and House
of Representatives of the United States of

America in Congress assembled, That, in ac-

cordance with subsection 3(b) of the Wilder-
ness Act (78 Stat. 891; 16 U.S.C. 1132(1b)).
the area classiﬁed as the Gore Range-Eagles
Nest Primitive Area, with the proposed addi-
tions thereto and deletions therefrom, as
generally depicted on a map entitled “Eagles
Nest Wilderness—Proposed”, dated October
1973, which is on ﬁle and available for public
inspection in the oﬂice of the Chief, Forest
Service, Department of Agriculture, is hereby _
designated as the “Eagles Nest Wilderness”
within and as part of the Arapaho and White
River National Forests comprising an area
of approximately one hundred and twenty-
eight thousand three hundred and seventy- '
four acres.

SEC. 2. As soon as practicable after this
Act takes effect, the Secretary of Agriculture
shall ﬁle a map and a legal description of
the Eagles Nest Wilderness with the Interior
and Insular Affairs Committees of the United
States Senate and House of Representatives,
and such description shall have the same
force and effect as if included in this Act:

' Provided, however, That correction of clerical

and typographical errors in such legal de-
scription and map may be made. .

SEC. 3. The Eagles Nest Wilderness shall
be administered by the Secretary of Agricul-
ture in accordance with the provisions of
the Wilderness Act governing areas desig-
nated by that Act as wilderness areas, except
that any reference in such' provisions to the
effective date Of the Wilderness Act shall
be deemed to be a reference to the effective
date of this Act.

SEC. 4. The previous classiﬁcation of the
Gore Range-Eagles Nest Primitive Area is
hereby abolished. \

Mr. HASKELL.

Mr. President, I sug-
gest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clerk .
will call the roll.
The legislative clerk probeeded to call .
the roll._

 




s 19072

Mr. GRIFFIN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the Order for the
quorum call be rescinded. .

The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. BART-
LETT). Wit out objection, it is so ordered.

‘

ENROLLED BILL PRESENTED

The Secretary of the Senate reported
that on today, October 11, 1973, he pre-
sented to the President of the United
States the enrolled bill (S. 1317) to au—
thorize appropriations for the US. Infor-
mation Agency.

 

 

ORDER FOR ADJOURNMENT

Mr. ROBERT C. BYRD. Mr. President,
I ask‘ unanimous consent that when the
Senate completes its business today, it
stand in adjournment until- 12 o’clock
noon tomorrow.

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.

 

QUORUM CALL

Mr. GRIFFIN Mr. President, I suggest
the absence of quorum.
- The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clerk
will call the roll. .

The legislative clerk proceeded to‘call
the roll.

Mr. ROBERT C. BYRD. Mr. President,
I ask unanimous consent that the order
for the quorum call be rescinded.

- The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without

objection, it is so ordered.

 

" “ PROGRAM

Mr. ROBERT C. BYRD. Mr. President,
on tomorrow, the Senate will convene at
12 o’clock noon. The Senate will proceed
to the consideration of morning business,
as provided for under rule VII.

Following the introduction of concur-
rent and other resolutions, but before the
morning business is closed, the Chair will
lay before the Senate, Senate Resolution
185, relative to the Senate’s considera-
tion of a nomination to ﬁll the vacancy in
- the Ofﬁce of the Vice President. This
resolution would then be before the Sen-
ate for debate until 2 o’clock, if not dis-

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD —'— SENATE

posed of before that time, and any of the
eligible motions would. be in order. For
example, to table, to postpone, indeﬁ-
nitely, to postpone to a day certain, or to
refer, and all except the motion to- table
would be debatable- _

If none of these motions is made, an
amendment to the resolution would be in
order. At the hour of 2 o’clock, “the reso-
lution would go to the calendar.

After 2 o’clock, a motion to take up the
resolution, since there is no unﬁnished

business, would be in order, but it too ‘

would be debatable.

There being no unﬁnished business,
the Senate may take up, following the
morning hour—or, depending upon cir-
cumstances, before the expiration of the
morning hour—conference reports—or
any other measure that has been cleared
for action.

The foregoing is not meant to leave
the inference that there will not be yea-
and-nay votes tomorrow.

During the next 2 weeks, the Senate
will meet as deveIOpments require. A

recess of 2 weeks duration is no longer ,

advisable, in view of recent events—both
here and abroad—over which the leader-
ship has no control. During theSe 2
weeks, conference reports and other mat-
ters coming over from the House will be
taken up, and, where possible, adopted on
a voice vote. Where rollcall votes are in-
dicated, the leadership will do every-
thing possible to give Members sufﬁcient
notice in advance.

In any event, the Veterans’ Day re-
cess—from the close of business on
Thursday, October 18, until noon on
Tuesday, October 23—will be observed
as scheduled.

 

ADJOURNMENT

Mr. ROBERT C. BYRD. Mr. President,
if there be no further business to come
before the Senate, I move, in accordance
with the previous order, that the Sen-
ate stand in adjournment until 12
o’clock noon tomorrow.

The motion was agreed to; and, at 3 :06
p.m., the Senate adjourned until tomor-
row, Friday, October 12, 1973, at 12
o’clock noon. /

October 11, 1573

NOMINATIONS

Executive nominations received by the
Senate October 11,1973:
DEPARTMENT OF STATE

Joseph S. Farland, of West Virginia, to be
Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipoten-
tiary of the United States of America to New
Zealand, and to serve concurrently and with-
out additional compensation as Ambassador
Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the
United States of America to Fiji. to Western
Samoa, and to the Kingdom of Tonga.

0. Rudolph Aggrey, of the District of CO-
lumbia, a Foreign Service Information Ofﬁcer
of Class one, to be Ambassador Extraordinary
and Plenipotentiary of the United States of
America to the Republic of Senegal, and to
serve concurrently and without additional
compensation as Ambassador Extraordinary
and Plenipotentiary of the United States of
America to the Republic of The Gambia.

 

CON FIRMATION S

Executive nominations conﬁrmed by

the Senate October 11,1973:
NATIONAL LABOR RELATIONS BOARD

Howard Jenkins, Jr., of Colorado, to be a
member of the National Labor Relations
Board for the term of 5 years expiring August
27,1978. ,

ACTION

Marjorie W. Lynch, of Washington, to be
an Associate Director of ACTION.

RAILROAD RETIREMENT BOARD

Wythe D. Quarles, Jr., of Virginia, to be a
member of the Railroad Retirement Board
for the term of .5 years from August 29, 1972.

NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION

Lowell J. Paige, of California, to be an As-
sistant Director of the National Science
Foundation.

NATIONAL COMMISSION ON LIBRARIES
AND INFORMATION SCIENCE

The following-named persons to be Mem-
bers of the National Commission on Libraries
and Information Science for terms expiring
July 19,1978:

Bessie Boehm Moore, Of Arkansas.

Julia Li Wu, of California.

Daniel William Casey, Sr., of New York.

(The above nominations were approved
subject to the nominees’ commitment to re-
spond to requests to appear and testify be-

fore any duly constituted committee of the
Senate.)

 




