 

If

I)

 

 

 

 

 

 

/1,

e

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

The Value of, Animals in a Censtry,
' and to the People.

 

Animals of the Field.

 

Have you ever thought seriously of the value
of domestic animals to a country, and to the
people who own them? Livestock: -OOWS,
OXEN, SHEEP, GOATS, MULES, CAMELS,
DONiiEYS, and the humble FOWL? All of
these are of great value. As well as bringing in

money to an owner, think of the tremendous
use they are. They provide food ~—— meat and
milk, the skins are valuable for a variety of
purposes such as for making shoes and articles
of clothing -——— then, they work for their owners,
drawing ploughs and carrying loads. The eggs
from fowls provide one of the greatest nutrients
known to mankind, and therefore a most
valuable food for young and old In every
way animals are so valuable, and helpful,

that Man could not live without them.

It is only commonsense to know that,
all these splendid animals are worthy of the
greatest care and attention from their
owners. Unfortunately, this important point
is often not thought about at. all —-——9 there
are many people as yet, who l ave not learned
the lesson of defenceless
creatures. Later in this pamphlet, it will be
explained why animals are entitled to

consideration and understanding —-~ it is

I.)

kindness to

Man’s simple duty to care for his animals,
and all other animals, too, and give them

the protection, kindness and affection they
deserve

animals in the Heme

1

We have mentioned the animals of the Field,
now, let us think of the animals in the
home—~the dogs and cats. They too are
worthy of consideration from their owners.
The dog is Man’s best friend «most loyal
and faithful. Many dogs have given their
lives for their masters ..,__ but, does the master
always thinkof his dog? Why do.rnen se
often abandon their faithful dogs? And why,
so oiten when danger threatens, go oil?
quickly, and leave the poor animal behind.
Surely this is a cruel and inhuman act, a rd
not worthy of any owner Every geod and.
right-thinking person, must know that a
dog becomes so attached to his master that
if that master goes away from home, the
dog is miserable and unhappy, and has been
known in many instances to pine, and die
from a broken heart. Therefore no person,
should keep a dog, unless he is prepared
to give the animal care and affection, and.
always see that there is plenty of food, and
drinking water, as well as a clean, dry

place to sleep.

The cat in the home, also, isafriendly
creature, and although cata by nature,
don’t always express the same feelings
of affection as that shown by dings-g,
yet, cats become greatly attached in A
owner and the house he lives in. late, triad
are most useful creatures and give splendid

. \
service by desiroying rats and in.ic€;a'v.>'hieii

would cause a lot of damage in the home.

 

  




 

 

 

These animals then, are all the friends
and loyal servants of Man, and help to
contribute in a. big way to the domestic
economy of those who own them ~— and
MARK this, these animals giving so much,
NEVER ask for payment! All they would
ask, if they could speak, would be, a kind
master, a dry, clean place to sleep, shelter
from therain and sun, and of course, enough
and healthy,

with plenty of clean water to drink.

food to keep them strong

It might be argued that some human
beings have not enough food, and water,
for themselves—-—how then, can ,they give
, such to animals? The answer is simple—if
j p a man cannot provide food and water for
the humble creatures who serve him so
well, he should not attempt to keep animals
at all. By keeping animals, and starving
them, he is acting in a thoughtless, even
cruel way. At the same time, he is depriving
himself and his family of the many good
(things which he could acquire through

possessing strong and healthy beasts of

  considerable value. If animals are weak and

l . sickly through want of proper care, their
market value descreases, and too, they can
die —— then, the thoughtless owner has lost
all, and his family will be very poor
indeed. But look at the other picture — the
kind and considerate owner keeps his animals
in splendid condition, and so valueable that
through this, he can raise his whole
ifstandards of living ——he can give his family
everthing they require to help them on
in the world —-- good food, good clothes, and
’ good education. Such a worthy owner too. can

haveawell built house, and.lots of comfort
in fact, he becomes ‘man of property’, and

comands respect.

You can see fiom the foregoing how
simple it could be, all through the care of
animals—to become a prosperous person,
and in doing so, you are helping your country
as well. Good, well - cared for livestock, and
other domesticated animals too, added to
active cultivation of crops, and intelligent
conservation of grazing land, are all part of
the sound foundation which goes into the
making of every prosperous, pastoral country.

Wild life.

Now, I think we should consider the
great living heritage of Wild Life, with which
many countries in Africa is blessed. These
wonderful wild animals contribute, in their
own special way, to’ the progress and pros-
perity of the countries fortunate enough to
possess them The Wild Life of Africa is
something unique, and nowhere else in the whole
world can so much wonder and beauty in
living form concentrated together, be seen -— a
heritage priceless so that it would be nothing ‘
short of the greatest of crimes, to allow SO
valuable a possession be destroyed. But alas, the
Wild Life of Africa is being ruthlessly decimated
by barbarous and illegal means. What can the
World think of a country if its people stand
ccmplacently by, and see a great and invaluable
natural heritage become slowly, but surely,
destroyed? The answer is obvious ———— it being the .
moral duty of the people of a country ‘30
protect and preserve for posterity, the great
living heritage of Wild Life with which they
have been so richly endowed. Buildings can
be replaced if destroyed —— but the Wild Life,
never. The wild animals of Africa are a ‘World
Possession’. just as other great wonders “f

 




 

the world, found in ancient monuments, and
unique features of engineering—but none
so captivating in natural attraction, as the
wondrous Wild Life of Africa. It is the duty
of every man, woman and child, to take an
honoured part, in helping in
possible, to ensure that the wild animals are

every way

_ protected to the fullest extent, and left to

live in their own glorious kingdom, FREE from
FEAR, SUFFERING and DESTRUCTIOE.

 

 

Why animals must be given
‘kinlness, consideration and

pretense-

Animals areDefenceless creatures —-— they

cannot speak for themselves.

When animals were created, the purpose
was to enrich the world. Then, Man was
created, and given the guardianship of the
animalsmthis, a sacred Trust. Man was
endowed with superiority over the animals, in
the way of speech and understanding, but
he was given the care of the animal's—the
lowly speechless ones, and this, a duty to be
fully realised. Unfortunately, there are those
who forget the Trust bestowed upon them,
and instead of being good guardians show
nothing but neglect and cruelty to the
defenceless creatures in their care. How, then,
can any person who would deny this great
humane responsibility towards animals, ever
prosper, or find happiness and contentment
in life? A Trust is a vital thing in a person’s
life, and to fail in a trust means that
something essential for good living is
absentmthis can lead to discountent and

3' great deal of unhappiness, Man’s attitude -

towards all defenceless things gives proof
of his greatness; or his meanness. The

compassionate man will find satisfaction,

and contentment in everything he does.
He will consider the needs, and feelings of
his fellow - men, in the same understanding way
in which he considers his animals. The man
who cares not for the defenceless creaiurest
will neither care for the suffering or distress
of his fellow - men —- such a man can only be
restless and unhappy, but he will not readily
admit to this. The moral is, by Cosmic Law,

“what a man sows he will reap”.

The animals of the creation who came
into the world before Man himself, may be
defenceless, but they are noble. Even in
distress —— the
ill - treatment, the
nor make trouble —- they will try to do their
work, even though perhaps, sick, hungry and
weak. Can we always say this about human
beings? No -——if human beings imagine they
are badly treated, not get what they demand,
they can become troublesome and aggressive.
Therefore surely, it is only right that the
animals who cannot defend themselves, should
be allowed to live and work in peace —— free
from FEAR, WANT and SUFFERING-

caused through the inconsideration of Man.

result of" neglect, and

animals don‘t complain,

It is Man’s sacred duty to see that

the Trust placed upon him is honoured.

Animals and human beings, especially
in great pastoral countries, have a kinship
with each other —— the good man knows this,
and is proud to consider the needs of the
animals —- by doing so, he proves to the world

that he is a humanitarian -——~ that is a person

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

mans-:M-‘m- \ .‘ﬁ- m:

  

m‘m—ug—Ww

bring forth all that is good and noble in a
human - being. Ry this, a person can attain a
place in life through which he can help to
bring Peace, Contentment and Happiness inter
the lives of his fellow - men who perhaps
lack the rich quality of compassion ~——— a truly

who believes in the principles of compassionate
living, and shows great reverence for'life.
?~‘uch a. man can attain great heights because
by his compassion for defenseless creatures

who cannot help themselves, he proves that

 

 

he Will HBVBI‘ fail MS {9110 W 3 men satifying achievement —- and all brought
either. Kindness and consideration of about through consideration and underl tending
the needs of . the lowly animals, can of the needs of the defenceless ones.

 

 

 

Welfare”
Education Institute of Africa, .P, O. Box 2473,
Dar e Salaam, Tanganyika, E. A

in Animal can be obtained from; '

“Lessons
Humane

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

PRINTED BY:

THE KANT! PRINTING WORKS
P. O. Box 456, Telephone 21877
DAR ES SALAAM
&

MBEYA

 




 

a?" 55% in: ~ ‘ ﬁg??? ”t" U? M.” "MM~E
Az’éi‘i’h’ﬁin ammo“ ; l: .2; MM
' ' ”ﬁe 3' ‘ 6'5» a“
(«.1 5.338;. “1.3;. ml",

harsh 19. 1953

yrs. Esohol Slator
Box 2&73
Bar on Eoloom, Tanganyika

Door lots. Slater,

l'vo soot off your two delightful tales to Mrs. Duff at tho Viking
$3955, who published a children‘s hook written by ooo of out momhoxs.
l do hopo that she will like thom, and I‘ll lot you know as soon as W9
hoax from her.

Also9 l‘vo given material on HEIA to the offioora of a second amoll
foundation, and you will no doubt be hearing from Mrs. Malcolm Ripley,
who lo the President, as I gave her your address.

1 am vary glad that you spoke to Chief Fundikira about cruel ex~
perimooto on animals, fox they are almost certain to he presoed as a ‘
part of tho U08. Public Health Service program. I noticed that a largo
sum was going to Ghana for animal oxporimohts.

It seems to mo that if you are writing a letter for me to transmit
to Ambassador Stevenson about HEIA, it might be possible to follow on from
there to bringing to the attention of U Thahta 1) What was done in oxdor
to pm; starving animals out of their misery in the Congo; 2) What provision
HEIA thinks should be made for any future problem of the some nature.
Could you write a short, official lottor embodying those two points? I
feel doubtful of achieving succoss on this, but it could lay the ground-
work for future work, especially if HEIA gets a mobile clinic from one
source or another.

Horho h Watoro is an official of AID. Ho fools that bringing womon
into the programs would ho a good thing, and he would certainly be in-
horootod in hoaring whoa you are doing aloog this line. Though Hoxhoxt
Woioro is in govornmont sorvico, the organization that ho referred me to
ls hohwoovornmohtol, but, as l understand it, tho government uses them to
shook thxough to moho euro that faxuowoy oggonigaﬁiohs with which they
work ago oomuioolv soondlhg ﬁho mohoy as they have promised ho do-«in othor
worla, hhoy provioooo guarantoo of hosponsihllity of the foreigg orgao~
lzoilohs. 1 will lolophono thom for more information on this whenevox goo
wish mm to $9 so.

l‘m oollghted to hoot that ox. ﬂgola has pmomisod his support for tho
loshituto. l shoulo think Afxlooh ”Rig homos” would he tromonéously imv
portonﬁ. For oxamwlo, if such homos appoarod on tho siationory, I think
it would he a lot oasior lo approach U Thoht, and.olso to got financial
suppoxt from govornoohﬁ and oihor souxoos. l'm so glad tho? hlso hilllohoﬁo
is helping you with tho sohotoary ozojoct.

 




$33331 $1333?

13 31313 333333 33 3133 339 1333 133 £33 1
33 yea, 33 E 333 +~~y 111.1,1331 31313
131 $33p331 for 1313 3331331.

:1
4'!
" n

f

1 33 13r3131y $3332 33331 3333 333 3:3 33 31133 333 333:"
'3333333 3333: 13331313 .13133 3133333 13339, 3333 33 33 3333
13 3311.1’3 3333 333'31 133131 33.3 31381~3313 333 33333333
3 133~ 133 333 333331133.

53313sed is 3 3h33k for 33” 3333333 ..... W333, and 1 M 3133 11 33313
3033, but 1 b311333 13333 19 3 33:33 3333 3 3333 funds 333 33 3331333333
ﬁr33 33. and 338. ﬁipl3y, for c333 3r3 1313333133 13 3333 work.

Yours,

 




2 O 9&4475
)QQ [ﬂ ’PJQW

“x ‘ , 9-» m
'\ . L“ W
”'3.-- ‘ 0 mL. 73 a - («$9.4 LL /

\JJLrQ

(“LCJIQQ K242. LL LN» \ LQ‘Q.

I r:
K3 } \g"
1‘: x“! , Mt",

V\»

I

(wt-9‘

\ 1

7

/ 1“")
/'H§

'!
i

,i
5’ . cg‘d

CL AA" ML {A3 MIL

W ‘ OLWVW ”Q9 Q QQ 1‘91
@M9 (:4 LL QW, QWWWQW S‘gLQ/L
{<2ka “‘ "04.3%.... Q> 63LL 2% £94 QM“?

KwLj 5) Ld Q5 Lat? Wei

 




%m¢¢zﬂ gﬂamé'aﬂ e/Mfwié v/wm '

We a”? f ad page?) @2- 34/3
sﬁﬁC.9%mu zany“ §ZZ;..M.Aa4aa»a

yams, aa/ diam, Jase? ‘ jwymyoaa 612%

Mrs C.Stevens, 25th February 62.
Animal "elfare Institute, ~

22 East 17th St.,

New York,3. N.Y.

Dear Mrs Stevens,
As promised in my brief note accompanying the cepies of

Heia, sent off three da s ago, I'll try to bring you up to date with the news
However,first of all,I would like to thank you very much for your recent let-
yer and enclosures — all of which I have found extremely interesting. Also,
thank you for the last information report. I can now,well understand the dis—
turbing problem you are fighting against - the question of laboratory animals
The whole picture seems to be unbelievable - that human beings could be so '
deeply involved in such patent acts of cruelty. I'm sure in these days of
scientific enlightenment other methods could be found for many of these ex-
Beriments without resprt to so much extreme cruelty,and obvious suffering.

octors I have met abroad have deeply deplored the experiments oh living
animals,and have declared that much of it,was entirely unnecessary. I can
well imagine that you won't rest until you_have been able to improve condit-
ions for these poor animals. .Thank God,I have'nt been faced with the pro—
blem here,I‘m sure I should feel just like you do over it. I mentioned the
matter to Chief Fundikira some little time ago, and told him,"I relied on him
to see that there should be no introduction of laboratdey research involving

cruelty to animals,in this country". I think he will keep it in mind.

A.

, To answer your query concerning U Thany,and what to do? ihe
position is like this — if any further animals are anandoned in the Congo,or
Ruanda-Urundi,due to Europeans leaving in a hurry, the only reliable source
of help would be the United Nations personnel. In 1960 when the big Congo
debacle occurred,I found that it was only through persistent efforts made to
the U.N. Commander,that the tragedy of the abandoned animals was given any
thought at all. The Brbtish Embassy backed me up,and eventually certain
UN personnel took the matter in hand - rounding up homeless and starving
animals,and giving them a humane end. The same thing is quite likely to hap—
pen again,especially as regards Ruanda-Urundi:when Independence is granted in
a few months time. I shudder now,to think of what is likely to happen — I
feel so convinced that the pQOple of that trust territory are not nearly
ready to govern themselves. 8 it is, one half of that country persists in a
Monarchy,the other half,a Republic, and they are all very aggressive trib e.
What I would like would be for the UN bhief to realise the position, audionly
in the name of humanity,be ready to put down the animals which will be left
starving. The late Dag Hammarskjold,Bless him, was a very humane man, and had
found time to consider the plight of homeless animals also. It is morally bad
for the people of these"difficult" countries to see animals being treated
as of no importance,and I would like,in good time, to get some assurance that
should animals be abandoned when Europeans leave, they will be taken care of.

There are still no protection societies in these rust count-
ries,except the small Belgian group in Usumbura,(Ruanda) but it is anticipated
that the members will all be leaving on Independence. In any case, this smal1
group,unfortunately,have never made any headway with the indigenous euple‘

and for that reason,they have little standing as the position now c ange/

\ .

 




%M¢ﬁﬂ g/wgﬁ'ow jag/53%”? 6/%§

are a? f a?) 9?? 2922a 2475:

9:22 &J .458 aam,

.jZZ-£Zmeav025
“OZ/{twice ,' ﬁfe/J aF’Za/oa t/géa “‘1 “Wafiywéa 661%

9

a...

I keep close contact with the Ruanda peeple, and have felt seriously pertur—
bed over the gradual falling off,of their activities. I am now trying to

get humane literature well distributed over RuandanUrundi,h0ping that it will
have some little effect, but I feel desperately unhappy about the whole pos-
ition. That is the reason why I have urged the ISPA to provide a Mobile
Veterinary Unit for the Congo,and for use in Ruanda—Urundi when Independence
comes. That,in my Opinion,is the only real answer - a quite independent body
to move around where the position is bad,and mercifully put the animals down.
Such a Unit,could of course,work with the knowledge,and co-Operation of the
UN Commander. However,knowing how slow things take to penetrate, it is

only a faint hepe on my part,that the ISPA will act in this invaluable way,
in any case, I cannot but urge that the UN should make certain personnel ava-
ilable to round up and humanely shoot,(if no other way is suitable) all aban~
doned animals. I was given assurance that this was done in the last Congo
disaster. I was given to understand that men of the Irish regiment were de-
tailed for the job. However ready some of the Belgians may be to take
their pets along with them,or have them put down beforehand, there are always
those who do not think: and too, in a sudden flare up of fighting,the EurOp-
eans might unexpectedly have to flee. In the Congo,in l960,it was ghastly,
the EurOpeans by the hundred had to flee from their homes,even in the midst 0
cooking meals - leaving their pets behind. And,many pets were left in houses
which were hurriedly locked - left to starve and die. The Congolese authorit—
ies would‘nt at first,allow these houses and flats to be Opened up for fear
of looting, so the animals ~ dogs,parrots and monkeys in particular, had to

dle° In any case, it could do no harm to appeal to U Thant,to consider

the humane side of the picture,and keep the problem in mind.

I am now,in touch with the Prime Minister in the Congo, and I hope
to impress him enough to encourage the formation of a Humane roup in the
Congo itself. The trouble is,in these countries,nothing but politics seems to
have any importance at all. Politics: killing so many parts of this great con
tinent,which should by all concepts be a rich and prosperous land from N to S
and E to w. but politics are blinding theﬁpeopleyto their own disadvantage!

Already Tanganyika is sheltering refugees(indigenous) from Ruanda~
Urundi and Mozambique - thousands of them. Even the indigenous peOple are
afraid to remain in their own countries. Tribal aggression is an awful thing‘
these peeple are completely primitive and barbaric ~ if ever Humane Education
was required anywhere,it is in Africa: not only to help the animals, but the

peeple themselves.

About Herbert Waters? What exactly is his interest in Womens‘organ-
isations? It is possible I may soon be able to form one or two groups of
women to help spread the teachings of the Institute. I have some contacts at
work in the Rhodesias,and on the borders of Ruanda~Urundi. But it takes a
long time,and plenty of patience to explain through letters. What is his
organisation in N.Y.? I am still waiting to hear from the Chief of the
Masai as to whether they would like to receive cattle food } I know the
cattle are starving, but I guess it is a question of costs of railing the
stuff from Dar es Salaam port,to the North. The Ministry of Agriculture say

 




%mma gaéwmﬁé'éw ﬂdﬂfwé y/Wb

* f2? 65“ f M/ 9&3 gets 34%:
g/- Q4”, .1 6/525 @32 and 4a mm,

. L/ . a
game... can as ﬂare? ‘9 “WM?” (5%
3.

there is no money for this! all spare cash going towards famine relief for
the humans. The Masai have money amongst themselves, but of course,every-
body in this country,even the primitive Masai,have got to that happy stage
of expecting everything to be done for them, and at no cost to themselves:

A poor foundation,I keep saying, for a new Nation to build upon. Actually,
the Minister for Agriculture suggested to me, that erhaps I could help to
start a "cattle Bank" through the Institute _ that I gathered was to effect,
that a fund was raised,and the money used to provide essentials for livestock

in times of drought,etc. I said,I would have to think about that one: but
not for the moment.

I'm glad you think it a.good idea to write to Ambassador Stevenson and;
tell him about Heia,its aims and objects. I will do something about this,
as soon as I can get 'breathing space' ~ there is so much essential,initial
work to get on with as quickly as possible. When I do manage to write the
letter,I'll send it to you,for onward transmission,if I may.

About the Advisory Board? It is in my mind, but with so much prelim-
inary spade work to do, that,to me,seems the most urgent matter, and I have
felt that with opening up new areas,and making new contacts,it is possible
that a few"Big Names" in the African world,might be put on the Board. I am
keen to have a few like the Prime Minister of Nigeria,and others of that ilk
The Leader of the Kenya Democratic Party,Mr R.Ngala,is interested,and as he
will probably be the Prime Minister of Kenya,sometime, if they can ever re-'
solve their differences in that sad country — he would be a useful person
to have. He has promised his support for the Institute, but at the moment,
it's nothing but politiosl I would like also,to have one of the Congo big
men,as it is absolutely essential to pursue with the utmost determination,
the formation of a Group in the Congo. If I can have another month or
perhaps two,to complete the initial coverage of the African countries, I
will get down,with your help,to some kind of more official form. You know
my feelings at this stagem perhaps? Desperate to get on with the job of
arousing interest,and that means action all the time. Singlewhanded it is
a little difficult, and slow: I have the Rhodesian AFRICAN leaders
lined up also - and there,I have to be so diplomatic,as there are some very
keen EurOpeans helping me also: I have taken in,also Malagsy Republic,
(Madagascar) although an island outside AfriCa,it is regarded as African,&
may well become a part of anELA. i1ederation,should such a goining up of
countries ever come to fruition. For my part I hope notl) ut Malagsy is a
great cattle country,and the peeple,a very mixed breed, have little idea of
humane practice. Then,also Nyasaland is being circularised by the Institute
and I'm heping to have Dr Banda's support. (You will note that I am trying
to get the African Leaders interested — they are the peeple who will have
the"big say" in promoting anything,as time goes on. At the moment,polit-
ically,so many countries are in a real mess. I feel owever,that Heia could
do an awful lot to help counter-act political bad feeling on the strength
of its humanitarian policy. I have also got a contact in EthiOpia,and therg
is another country sorely needing a touch of humanitarianismi I have also
had a talk with the Ghana High Commissioner,resident herg,now. I argggrthat

l in Ghana be encoua ed to have a weekly perio se 881 e
Egikzcggoﬁﬁmane Education. He gromised to see what he could do. APTOPOS 0f

 




ytjmmy g/mé'aﬂ jM/wé %%éa

a? 42’? f M/ 9&3 @w 3473,
“ﬁac.g%mm¢5§25 ‘ i225z.wraa¢mama

ﬂaw. .. ﬁg J’Zsm, %% 6 4 jaymyaéw 5%

Ghana, I was interested in Prince Ainoo's effort. This is all to the good,
and I will write to him again. Once before I helped him with a plan of
working in the interests of animals in these countries,and sent him lots of
literature,etc., this led to him writing and asking for a 3gp in Tanganyika,
I could'nt do anything in this way,and had to tell him so - since then,I had
not heard from him further. I had suggested to him that he should write to
Julius Nyerere - I don't know whether he did, but at the same time I advised
him to stick to the work he was doing in Accra,as I felt sure his ability
was required there. Oh,dear, Africans are difficult peeple,seemingly to
live on "terms of contradiction". If they like something,they will really
show usefulness,such as the Tanganyika peOple have done as regards animal
welfare,but then only,because beeing on the spot,could keep in close touch
with them,and keep driving! But all African peeple require a certain kind of
approach,quite different to white races, and this makes everything to do
with the indigenous peeple,a matter of slow progress,and infinite patience.
They do not think and reason,like we do, and are so inclined to take every-
thing said to them,literally£ and too, once you have made a promise,it has
to be kept. Tribal customs can be very,very difficult to overcome, and some
of the customs are,by European standards,shockingly bad. Until these can
be eradicated,the civilising of Africa,will be a long and frustrating ex—
erience.
p I don't expect miracles in this work, but know that through a con~
tinual "plugging" of a principle, something will result,sooner 0t later.
At the moment then, the following countries are in contact with the Institute

The Rhodesias,Nyasaland, Congo,Ruanda—Urundi, Madagascar, Kenya,Ethicp
ia, Zanzibar, and shortly,I hope Uganda. I have sontacts in Nigeria,and the
Ivory Coast, and also,hope to make some impression in Ghana. South Africa
is a great problem - there are literally dozens of humane societies,large
and small, but unfortunately,nothing is done among the indigenous peeple,
rather working against them as being the culprits. This is all so bad,and
I hope sometime to be able to promote some change of feeling in this dir—
ection. Antagonising the peeple will never bring results.

iy worry at the moment,is having adequate printed matter for dissem»
inationl Until now, I have only been able to get 1000 of each item of lit~
erature printed — English,Swahili and French. Actually,millions of items are
needed. I have not yet been able to start on the Italian and Portuguese
material. This matter of printed material is very costly, and too, I have
had to get some help with translations, also entailing sdme expense. How—
ever,I knew all this before I started the work,but being an Optimist,I felt
that all would come right in time — and I still feel an optimist& M1ss
Williamson (Montreal), sent a cheque for 500 dollars,before she left for
three months in Barbados, on doctor's orders. She is a lovely person too,
and I am grieved about her health - she spend most of the time having med-
ical treatment, but I am hOping very much that she will be able to make the
trip out here in a few months time,to stay with me for a while. That .
brings me to the great joy of seeing my dream for a wild life sanctuary in

Dar es Salaam,materialising. Miss'Williamson has guaranteed the money!

 




4%QC.9%m,egvai

%ﬂ2¢ﬁ&’ gaézm/{éw $552552 5/:jﬂé

ﬂ}? 6‘5“ f M/ 92% gas 247:3,

$2 «9.4 .461 44m,

9am. .. ﬂa/ .J’vao all? a? ﬁeryw/iyeéw 67%

D
.Lo

5.

bor years I have wanted to get this splendid asset established, but finance
was the problem: and too, I was so tied up with RSPCA, could never get the
time to pursue the matter. Now, it is different - I mean to establish the
uanctuary through the Institute. I have just been able to purchase a lovely
area of ground,about three miles from the centre of the city - have taken

10 acres to start on. Now,of course,there will be much to do in connection
with plans,etc. and later I will have to get the assistance of a zoologist.
Although Matilda has guaranteed the money for the establishment of the san—
ctuary, it will mean,I expect,finding other sources of financial help for the
endowment of the sanscﬂary later on. Perhaps the N.Y.Zoological Society might
be interested to assist? The Sanctuary will prove a three-fold asset of in—
estimable value - l,as a means of preservation of young species of wild life,
2, educational value,and 3, a wonderful tourist attraction. The nearest

Park to Dar,is 147 miles away, and peeple coming off ships are always so dis—
appointed that they cannot see wild life in Dari my idea is to have young
animals,to grow up in semi-captivity in natural surroundings - these animals
should prove a tremendous attraction for all the thousands of school children
of Dar itself - few of these children have even seen a wild animal: and think
of the educational value of being able to ptomote a love of wild life among
the cxildren — the children being of all races, but of c0urse,mostly Asian
and African. I am very thrilled about the project,and refuse to consider
any obstacles at all!

So there it is — so much to do, and the nuisance of the eye trou-
ble to combat. this is much worse than the handicap of the wrist which has
not mended preperly.(My own fault entirely!) I hope to get another opinio
about the eye,next week, after that I hepe to know when it might be ready for
operation. but it is quite a worry having to consider ways and means for a
possible trip overseas - so soon after my trip last year. However,l'm being
philosophic about it all - maybe it has come as a means of “slowing down"my
energies a bitl living too intensely is not very wise, but awfully difficult
to reign in,if youf're made that way, heredity in my case ~ there's nothing 1
can do about it.

Excuse the many typing errors,and misspellings: The humidity is
almost unbearable just now,and concentration is ddfficult,added to the eye
inconvenience.

I have just received the illustrations from my friend, for the
little story, "Crocodile Creek". I'm sending them-herewith,should the story
be of interest in the US. I do so sincerely hepe you won‘t go to any spec~
ial trouble over the stories. I'm most profoundly grateful to you,for even
receiving them on the chance that they might be acceptable.

Will write again soon. sincerely Yours,

S. I have heard from Joyce Lambert,at last, and kglnanngZQJkA w

gather she is writing to you re. the film.
By the way,should any institution,etc., 1n the States or

Canada like to purchase the film for keeps, I would be agreeable.

 




33333 35. 3333

333. 33m33§33333

3:..3’313 Vikimg 333333

323 ﬁﬁﬁiﬁﬁﬁ‘ﬁVQﬂﬁﬁ
$33 3333 22, 333‘3333
“333333“ 333:5. 3333333,

3333 ﬁ3333hmth 333333 333 amggeataa ﬁhat'we $3~3 393 £39 333
333333 33333333'3 3333335 WEiﬁiﬁﬁ ﬁg 33$. Egaﬁﬁi 31333:, $.3333.
33-3333 bﬁﬁn 3n aaaxeﬁgmagenaa with $33. Siaiaw because a? 333
amﬁatanéing humama 3633 3m‘3333anyikﬁ, mask a? 33 with 3333333
ah33ﬁren 333 are 3333333§ kiméﬁaﬁg ﬂﬁraugh haw 3333339 3333 33
a3m§mnﬁtisa wiﬁh 3&3 3&ﬁgﬁnyik3 Etaﬁﬁh 03 th@ Raga} Spﬂég £33
33% wiﬁh ﬁhﬁ'ﬁu@&ﬁﬁ Edﬁcatiﬁn Inttitmtﬁ af’ﬁft3aﬁ.

3 hawe yam W333 3333 $33 gtarias 3&3 33:3 39 pabliﬁh 3333.

33333331? years,

33333) 033333333 333V333
Presiéaat

 




%M¢ﬁﬂ gﬂmébw fidﬂééﬂé 9/J3/Z’é'c

Va” (55" f? M/ 97%) @523 24/5:
L71- .024,» , 5/525 ' @z M .46; J2me”,

ﬂaw/m .. ﬂow 7%“, ﬂy}? 6? ' jmymvgwééw 68%

 




I

3

l
i?) F K"? 3.423“ Z; I"

'i

ﬁﬂﬂ

U

" rg. ,3“
E: u 33;} .3
{3n

{

F?’l§.Vlﬂi‘

&

<2.
.3“?-

I

'2’?)
c. {3:
~ - .1“
3 , v ‘
L9 ‘3 xiA.

EQ-

'! b
‘7, pa “7“.

X113»

v. ¢
z, .
a: \

«13¢
J

N
’1

i

ameti

,1

3,“:

Q

;d ﬁon

v. .1 , .
1 a“ e" "a:
4.0» Rd- ‘ .1‘ 9.

.‘F‘ﬂ

’7
.- r x
4' U

 




3333333 13333 333113333 133333 33 333 331» v “ 3 33:.1333 1313

313313333» 333 ; <»3 ‘ 3334333 1'“ 313‘2v, 3313y31 by 133933
3133331 T313 333 3333 >5 «: ‘1 ”;3 .z;. '1'” 3 3 333333 W3Tt§
' 1333 133 133*“331'3, 3333 -,»~ .11 313 33:33:13. 133 333113 13:13”
333 30 333 331p 33 31.. £3 33 - «a 33* nM 13‘; g ”CW 133 133331,
3333 33 3111 330* 133 ,,n gafﬁ 333133 3333 33 2113 ,131 33 33 3313,
1331333 33 1313 >Z+av., ‘W*.e 333 33133 3 33133» 3‘33333331J c 333 “31
or 33331j 31133 1» ,3313, 33311 33333333 31333 bear 41y113
3333 33 .3333 351m 3 3nd 333 310333 33 3 n3 133:1. 13313133 33 3133 ”31

3333 311 311333 33 3313111 3313133 3313 yanmg 333311333 133 33333

tag 1&33 3373 3333: @123333 333 3333333 33 33333313133 3r 333333 3
13 3333 Qﬁﬁ
J?) 4; ‘

3 r

0.1.

330313 3333 33 333 33333 3333131 33 3313:33 331331, 1313
13313333 35 333 33333133r133 3111r13 31 333 131133333 33 333

Us

.1333}. ? 11f1u£€

 




{‘a

1’ 5 g
: '5 I‘
{v
if

M,

C”

p

l.

.: f»

“cl

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

g Ct”, 22 East 17th Street

New York 3, N. Y.
February 16, I962

Hrs. Isobel Slater
Box 2&73
Barnes-Salaam, Tanganydka

Dear Mrs. Slater,

Enclosed are some copies of letters, an editorial, a statement by
Secretary Udall and Prince Kwamo Ainoo's lecturette which I don't
think you had ever seen, rather a hedge-podge, but I thought there
might be something of use to you among this material. '

I hope all is well with you. The stories arrived just as I was
going out of town so I haven't yet read them, but I look forward to
doing so as soon as I can get a slightly calmer moment and than will
give them to whoever seems most likely to publish them.

Thanks for sending the newly printed humane education materials.
WOuld it be possible to send about tea of the "HEIA-and what it means"
leaflets to me? This would be so helpful to have available for people
who might be induced to contribute. I do hope ISRA will give you a
veterinary mobile unit.

I think it would be fine if you would write to Ambassador Stevenson
to tell him about HEIA for you are following the general concept that
he actually suggested in his speech at our meeting.

Concerning U Thant, what is it that you specifically want the U.E. to
do? Uae U.N. personnel to destroy stray animals? HoW'would they.doit,
and under whose direction? I confess I feel terribly dubious about any
favorable outcome of such a request, but perhaps yon.have some means of
carrying out this project in mind and will let me know what yon.think
should be done. Are there any animal protective societies in the area
at present, and if so, can they work with the Belgians now to see to it
that the pets are either taken along or destroyed prior to the departure
of the Belgian.owners? This seems to me a more possible solution fren-
thia distance, but having no experience whatever in such a case I am;
working in the dark.

Perhaps I should write to Herbert‘Waters to see what the changes might
be to get a vehicle from AID. As I wrote you earlier,.it is necessary to
be in touch with the organization in New York which. as I understand it,
more or less vouohes for the validity of the projeC' abroad. 'Would you
want to write to them, or would you rather I telephoned then to find out
what is required in the way of information about HEIA? Probably we will
have to wait till the board of directors is formed, but it might be well
to have the information in advance. ,

I'll try to think about seals. I can.well see how important it is to
call attention constantly to your aims. -

All good wishes, and I hope your eye is not bothering you.
Sincerely,_

 




’ﬂ

_ swarms ark/75.25% ﬁé'ﬁrﬂe 6/u%éd
‘t

0?” (0’? f M) 9%? ﬂ... 24/3:
5 ‘ 96:52 ad .423 dam,

7744., “Kb? 6? » gatnﬂdﬁyoééw (its?

lst February 62.

«aw; 1-115 ULeVenS ,

A few lines with these two items of literature. It's
about Ruanda-Urundi this time. This Trust Terrsgets independence in a
few months time,and I hear most disquieting rumours as to the position
there - it looks like another Congo: Ruanda wants a monarchy,and Urundi
wants a Republic! that is the indigenous peOple of the country - one coun-
try,in two parts. I have a horrible feeling that when the Belgians start
pulling out,there will be scores of domestic pets left homeless again. If
some precautionary measures could be taken by; trying to get the UN people
to agree_that some steps would be taken,in event of emergency, to round
up and humanely put down the domestic animals abandoned, we could perhaps
avoid the tragedy of the Congo animals. Do you think you could,as a mem-
ber of this Institute's board.( something I'll have to get down to,soon,
when I get the initial rush overl) seek an interview with the UN chief in
N.Y. and explain the humane aspect. I'm sure the UN would co-operate
once they understood the need for action in this matter. I don't think
writing letters is so useful as personal contact - I only wish N.Y.was'nt
so far from Tanganyika: I'd love to sit on U Thany's doorstep}

I know of a number of Belgians who will be pulling out
of Ruanda-Urundi,and there will be many more - all, owning pets. In fact,
from what I hear,they don't want any Belgians,or rather Europeans in the
Country at all,after Independence. I feel greatly worried,knowing how
primitive these indigenous peOple are. I am starting on a distribution
of literature in Ruanda-Urundi, but it will take a long time to make any
useful impression — too long,probably,to help before Independence comes.

Africa is a‘real battle—ground‘today, anwa challenge
in the humanitarian sense. Needs an army of workersm and a fleet of
vehicles: I have just asked RSPCA,London,to get on to the ISPA and see
whether a.mobile veterinary Unit,could not be provided for the Congo - for
the purpose of humanely destroying homeless animals — the trouble is still
abounding in many parts of the Congo. The same vehicle could move into
Ruanda-Urundi in due course. This would be of great help,and could combat
the tragedy of abandoned animals§also milk poor cows,left unmilked for
days on end. I don't know whether the ISPA will do anthing about this,
but it would be an ideal opprtunity to show"their colours." attached
a press cutting of vehicles gifted to Tanganyika from the US - why,oh,why,
can't we get something in the vehicle line that would serve a real purpose?
mobile Veterinary Units,for choice. This country is desperate for vets -
and vehicles: I’m afraid there is a lot of wasted effort, and some fine
gifts too,having their use misdirected. After a discussion with the
Ministry dealing with veterinary services,I undertook to write to two sour-
ces in Canada,to see if there were any Vets available for service hgge “h 1e ,
I hope something may emerge. There are only about 1; Vets to serve e w 01
f T »ika and several of these are administration: and this,a PaSt°?a
gounig$a$¥th millions of livestock owned by the indigenous peeple - a blg
part of’the country's wealth. It's all terribly worrying. One other

 




mattergeinoe I em writing thie note uddo you think that Mr Adlai Stevenson
would be interested in thie Institute? ‘I noted from the’lnformation Report
‘you kindly eent,thet he had a lot to say about the velue,and necessity of
humane education in Africa today a well, here we are m the only organisation.
setting out to underteke jost‘thetl Do you think_l should write to him?

It would be fine if he would lend some Support. Geheidering-he hes tdked in
eooh e.strein,he should be interested to know his idea of humane education
in Afrioe,ie materialising! W '

, .Aoother emellmetter ~ do forgive me,for bothering you, but don do
understand so well. 'Do you think we could get some stamp stickers for use .
on our envelopes,propegende for humane education - something on the lines of
the enclosed. A Crusede,yes, but not with a ewordﬁ not for Africa — we get
enough bloodshed without swords. But perhaps,a torch and clasped hands of
different shades: Anyway,pleese think about the idea - everything that
attreote attention is of great value in this crusade. ' 'a

For the moment;
Sincerely,

4‘- 1"
’ﬂ ,/
,_—

-/

y

o/

 




 

._ 9..-.1 .

"“17 i '7'"1';'.»‘. " ’"

 

 

m

 

 

 

 

2

Three fit/7:, Baits, a. gift
of the 71330;): t)! :jILx’
United, S t a? v3.: 3 .13 Zita?

P901316 0f '1’"ngganxgéi-ca.

.,, heme-ye). c} mm

W“

have been tumwllj pie—
sented to the 713?!) Minis-
try of Comparative and
Community Dezpciigynrwnt.
The vans are part of
America’s Iiiiepeii .enco
gift to Tanganyika.

 

Accepting rho vans
from .Mr. Reuben: '1". 1-5971—

; at the U» Eitagassy. 2.2
? the Minister. ”IR/17'. Kasami
bala. He saici theyi Luld
make it pmsible 1:23' his
Ministry to pmvide more
assistance to Gmormnen:
developmer: p'rmects.

I!
I.

I “We regard these cinema
.vans as QWL’HIUZZIIOR i.
2the wa'r (mains: TML'Z’CI’TI’.
, ignorance an-i? disease."
said the Minisiei' a id ask-
ed Mr Hernemeyer to
E" convey T a it (7 an 12/ i is. a. "s
" thank to 2.7.0 {7.3. ($.02.er

.‘ mem. ‘

v
I
l
I

;;L5L.22.,._-;§

’ The mm“ are 3 fully
i equipped with cine
system pi J actors. and a
number of 12.17712 3iiC acting

I Wait Dim-99’s fims 0.!

health and san:ta1io.2.

 

 

 

.4-, AWN.--“ H .4 v .NC.-."

 

 

 

1T1

Cl1

SC
81
aI

W

 

tit
be
al
0C
rel
A1

 




e e?!

,. r,
, _

‘ 7'23?
8. K“:

v»
\
A

5‘
In,»

a

a;
W

o

h E?e_

3_
i;
,.
L
d.

0

W1“
19%

0

1h your
Vand h@ t

b

1? varlcus

to,d0

I
hing
ﬁhe
i
rs

,J
t;
.9

%

aim
.@ attﬁnt'

: rs: ‘33;
f3

4

m.
E”

Q

"t? .3”

x

ﬂ?
\uv

.,..
5/
V. ..
‘:,§\C€'i’: .

if

h
\u '1.‘
t

V

Q1. v
. I
.. »

11M 3.,
i

a;
U

'x
A. 3‘.

(“If”)

3 -
@3163"
x r? Haw: 112231"??ij ”3.1
.-,,. ,3 I H
F‘V‘ils’?
< ' . J. “
: 0F??3;7t,«3

{3}.» n

 




fﬂ %}§;ya%ijgi§%g .

2 %maﬁa gaéMw/[a , fédéfw/g a/ﬂL/Wam

a? a? j M/ 9%) gen 24%?

E/- @402; 5/52.?" @4252 (3.4 4a mm,

enema... ﬂm/ an... jams eZJymgwéa (5M
.“9 6th January 1962.

Mrs C.Stevens,
Animal welfare Institute,
22 est 17th St.,

ﬂew York,§I N.Y.

Dear Mrs Stevens, ~
Thank you so much for your letter of December 28th, and
thank you for all the interesting information, also,the phamphlet on
Laboratory Animals Overseas. I'm still one handed,and having a bit of
bother with my arm,so for the moment,this is just a short letter as I
wanted to send you a picture of the new emblem,and have your comments on
same.

I'm surrounded with mail! and a bit difficult to get it

all up-to-date. Looks as if I have really taken on something this time: It's
a chahlenge all right.

I'm so glad you think the filmgoed. I certainly do,and
feel it can give a true picture of our beautiful Game Parks. I have'nt
heard either,from Joyce, mgr from several other Canadian friends to whom

I wrote about the film. .owever,there is no time limit on the return of
the film,so we can Just but wait a little. Lots of mail seems to be held
up in the U.K. and this end,in fact,Christmas mail is only beginning to come
in now. What with strikes,and 'go-slow' tactics,things are in a bit of a
mess. I think the whole world needs the principles of humanitarianism plug-
ged in - not alone Africa. A pretty shocking thing has just happened here-
the latest ship load of famine relief food,gifted from America,has been
kept hanging about E.A. ports because the wretched dockworkers would'nt make
a special effprt to unload it: Now,the ship has arrived in Dar,with still
over 1000 tons to be off-leaded, and with the rain still hindering things,
and disgruntled dock-workers, we're all wondering whether the ship will be
unloaded at all. Is'nt it disgraceful, and yet,the food is for their fello'
men,starving up~country. It all makes me more determined than ever,te

Spread the message of humanity.

I'm awfully glad to know the difference between AHA and
HSUS - I never could quite understand. Both these organisations have corres-
~ponded with me,for years,and sent odds and ends of literature - also,AHA
has on a few occasions sent some financial help for the work. I had Just
been wondering whether both,or either,would be of any special benefit to
HEIA,if I a preached them. You see, I am so anxious to get all the support
possible. lowever,in View of what you say, and please believe,I set much
store on your Judgment, I don't think I'll take any steps at this stage.
Recently AHA asked if I would send some of the best pictures from any fut-
ure painting competition I organised for African schools - for showing
along with their own pictures. Also, I have at times,sent them the names
of students here,who wanted to have pen friends in the States.

‘ I believe that a very excellent worker,who was with
HSUS,left some time ago to join another new organisation, a Catholic one.
I suppose that is how it goes on. I can only say,some of them should come

 




1
J "‘1

'and lend a hand in this forsaken lgﬁd ~ they‘d find plenty to do!

‘ I have already said-to RSPCA,London,Who are associated with the Inter~
national Protection scoiety, that unless such an organisation can truly get' ~
. down to the hematbreaking problems confronting so many countries of the World,
.it would all be a waste of time: I don't think they appreciated these remarks.

I m sure the World Federation does good somewhere, but unfortunately,it has
beenmy experience to note that where something was desperately required,no
help was forthcoming..’ The Congo,for one example. I had appealed to the W.F.
along Withothers,in 1966 for help with the Congo massacre, but I did not eyen'.
, have any acknowledgement. ~ The Congo position is still as bad,as far as ani-
malsare concerned, and as yet, no organisation for their protection has come
‘ on the scene. I‘kneu_it's all pretty difficult when conditions are so coma
plicated-and confused, but still, something can be done.

_, I found it extremely difficult to make useful contact with UNESCO,and
,the Fauna Conservation people ~ I spent weeks,during.a trip overseas in 1958,

. [going from Paris toBrussels, and back again to Paris,trying to stimulate some
_interest-in the great problem of animal protection in Africa, and humane educ-

ation. Everybody appeared to be so vague - in fact,did'nt seem to know where

._certain countries in Africa were situated: I gave up in the end, and retur-

ned to Tanganyika to carry on,as usual. It may be different now, and perhaps

'9_'HEIA may have some impact,once it gets really going, and some notice taken of

1 p the immense job in hand. I hope so. But the main thing,is to get on with the
- initial work,and not wait, to be noticed: I'm sure you will agree with-mac

_   I have been busy writing up some preliminary pamphlets,and these are
‘A’non with the printers. 'I hope to send you a sample soon, and you will see the
“3.30rt of simple approach that generally finds the mark. Then,perhaps you could

,[Ihelp with some_further literature on similar lines. Pity our printers are so
;1nadequate here - they Just cannot turn out really attractive jobs.

gMuch as i would love to visit Schweitzer's humane settlement,I doubt

it whether the journey could be accomplished from here - it would take weeks:

** Lambarene is in such an inaccesstble place - no direct route at all. However,
.H.4whenI get a little time,l may write to him,and tell him 0f the work it is

'; ‘hoped to do.le

‘ I can‘t reall- think at the moment what you could do for an article
for the N.Y.ZoologicalySociety- except to stress the poﬁnt,that the indigen-
V.eus people of Africa are not cruel and indifferent to the protection of wild ‘
N 1ife,by nature. The African people generally have a great love for animals,and
A it is only through lack of understanding,and education,that some of themigy
‘appear to be cruel - but underneath,there are real feelings of kinship wi it .
'the animals,and it only requires help to remove the ignorance,and replacev:

. I With knowledge and understanding. It can be readily understood that in these

/ tive countries of Africa,the people in many instances are completely- .
?::?ial' in themseIVes - they live like animals,and think like animﬁls.T¥ey
have.no civilised knowledge at all, only-a great deal of cunning,§ isa gin: .
course is animal-like too. ‘When such people treat their own kit ~3n1'1e—
.the same maygthey do,the animals.- what can-one expect? Therefore,1t1 s 1d
_perative to bring humane education to.these;people - academic educa f0: gzgit%
be useless for millions, but to teach the s1mple_and basic lessons 0d tﬁi » j=
"ca ‘bring,in time,benefit to all - animals and humans. .1 have prgveb.th s .
fact,conclusively, not only by evidence of heroic rescue of anima s,to * t
wild and domesticated, by truly”primitive barbarians , but by the ighergs y
shown when talked to, about animals and their need_for rotekcltigg.e fgzligys
who tried to save the baby elephant,wasjust one case w or;t um it has begn
found'expression.r In themtimes of appalling poaching crue y -f the cruel
' common to find other primitive people trying to rescue animals rom ‘ 1 ’for
°f Pb _
' r ‘ uch crimes. irm y e even 3 ; .7 _ -
ggﬁpgtgztégguzhttogether,and taught the meaning of compassion poaching__

 




i ”I

.3..

would cease. The Africanpeopleare amongst the"most ready" in the world,to '
learn something.that appeals to them — and believe me, anything that has to
-do with animals,commands their attention.9 ~

If this country,and_ether African countries could only have teams of tea
dicated workers,c0nstantly going amongst them, it would not be long befere‘
the people became enlightenedto the fullest extent. I have often thought that
in Africa could be found many "St. ranciss”, for the love of animals is there 
,1yinggdormant,perhaps, but could 88 easily be brought to life,when occasions
demanded. As it is,there is no help for thepeople at all,except in the
sma§%,and totally inadequate way,which can be giVen by such an organisation
.as IA.‘ ' ' ‘ '” ‘

. If you could write in something of the foregoing,it would do much to.
dispel the erroneous impression that all.Africans are cruel to animals. I
* think this is very,very important. ‘ '

Yesterday, three Africans of the RSPCA ( my late trainees) and a fire-
man,went into a raging sea on the coral reef to try and rescue two alastian
dogs,cut off by the tide - the men oould'nt be held back,although.so dangerous~

' they could_have been dashed against the coral rocks or swept.out to sea ~ ene
dog was rescued, but unfortunately,the other was drowned. Just a case in
point. . . '

This is longer than I had intended: I'll write again soon,l hope,
‘with some leaflets. ’ Yes,thank you,l have been receiving the Information
Reports,and keep them all together to peruse at iquiet' moments - I find themr
all full of interest. I handed your letter(addressed to him) to Chief Fund-
ikira this mornnng ~ first time I had a chance to catch him for weeksl'and *
bassinet left for Loans, and won't be back until the end of the month:
inister chaps are not. very satisfactory if you Want to get then tied
I‘ve been waiting to see Abdallah in connection with the preliminary.

, getting the Sanctuary/Gardens for wild.life,here-in Dar, starteda I»
have found the ideal ground, and‘hate a promise of the financialbacking, but"
1t will all take time to get some progress in evidence. But this will be one=-
may,by which specieﬁ of young wild animals can bereaved: Chief Fundikiraa
says he will be glad to be on the Advisory Board of Heia. I'm not concentrat—
ing very much on that angle for the moment - the production of literature,and
making contacts,Seems to be.the first thing to be done. There are so many ,
things to think aboutig ' ‘ ' ' - ' T

For the moment r

a My best regards,and good
,wishes for l962.~

Sincerely Yours,

 




)‘ , .. Qa’ééﬁeﬂdaqam,

I

1‘

27W ‘ s T, 2/3

JZZ,§ZLwae7ﬁngi

95%wa ﬁ/e/{aﬂfig J/ﬂéﬂ V , . Q ‘5 wnﬂan‘yﬂéa ’ @ﬂaﬁ/

;.,, 10th January 1962.

zDear'Mrs Stevens,
,. . A few lines in haste, but I want to send you the attached

two items of propaganda literature, and perhaps you could write up something'
on similar lines. The "Promotion of Humanitarian t)rinciples"leaflet has
been seized with avidity in S.Rhedesia, and my contacts there are having

it cyclostyled for wide-spresd distribution through the Rhedesias. This is
excellent as the Rhodesias are in a troubled state,and as helpful propaganda
is urgently needed to interest the indigenous people in the protection of
animals. The leaflet will also be translated into the local language. Soon,
I hope to give you the names of peeple helping the work of the Institute
there. I have a number of other items in the printers,so I‘m getting
around slowly to the provision of enough printed matter to be going on with.
Also, I am having another sketch done for an emblem - the copy of the one

I sent to you,does'nt altogether meet with the idea I want to portray. The
emblem with the wild life and the child will be good for use in connection ‘
with any special Wild Life prepaganda.

I should have started to say,thank you so very much for send-
ing on the cheque from the Schoepperles - that was surely meant for you: >
How awfully generous of you to send it to the Institute here - really I feel"
quite overcome by your‘humane thinking‘. Thank you so very much. The funds
are beginning to show some advance. I have just received a cheque for 500
dollars from my good friend,Matilda‘Williamson in Montreal. She will be very
happy to be on an Advisory Board. I feel that all of you who have already
given so generously,should be called "Foundation Members"? Do you agree?

I have‘nt yet,done anything further about setting out a scale of member—
ship subs - I'm terribly anxious to get on with the initial propaganda for
the moment, and I have not yet heard from all those to whom I put your sug-
gestion as to subs. It takes a little time to get replies from far afield.
This will be all for the present,but I‘ll be writing seen
again. I've just had a bit of a shack today,and it worries me a littl.
I've had a funny eye for a week or two,and put off seeing a doctor,for the
good reason that there are no oculists here,and few good doctors - however,

 




I risked consulting ene, and today he says I have a cataract starting in‘the
right eye.. I m net surprised really,as I knew Yery well,I've treated my eyes

artifical light.. It‘s a nuisance,and I can only hope it wen't get too bad, be~
fore I can get away t9 386 an expert semewhere - There is nobody in E. A. whe
V‘would be mudh help. However, the left eye is 100% so I'll have t0 make de.
l” "I Shall have te sta.rt calling up my"Faith reserves' again. a

‘ AGain, many,many grateful thanks.

_Sincerely.Y0urSo

 




HUMANE EDUCATION 12le

OF AFRICA.
P. 0. BOX
33m - 80"

 

' the sum of Mag ; ................ .................................

 




PROMOTION OF HUMANE EDUCATION.

HEIA, AND WHAT IT MEANS.

HEIA stands for, "HUMANE EDUCATION INSTITUTE OF AFRICA".

HEIA is a voluntary: and non~profit making organisation
established to promote humane education.

The Headquarters of HEIA, at present, is situated at
Dar es Salaam, Tanganyika, and is under the direction of Mrs. Isobel
Slater, M.B.E., who has been promoting humane education, which includes
animal welfare, for over 20 years in Africa.

The Policy of HEIA is to promote humanitarian principles in
the widest sense. HEIA believes in, "Reverence for life — all life,
and Compassion for all Isfenceless creatures."

By its policy HEIA teaches humanity to defenceless creatures *
by this is meant that all followers of HEIA’s teaching create a moral
sense of responsibility and understanding of the needs of the humbler
creation, the animals. Through this feeling of humanity, Man, not only
learns the value of kindness to defenceless creatures, but also learns
to appreciate the needs of his fellow-men ~ all through kindness and
understanding. A human—being, handicapped by illness or disease, unfit
to work, can too, be classed amongst defenceless ones - so too, can the
aged and infirm, and little children. The man who can spare time to
consider the needs of the animals, will find time and sympathy to
care for defenceless human-beings also. Such men can be the builders
of great nations.

HEIA believes in promoting the care and protection of
animals, whether wild or domesticated, because, apart from Man’s moral
duty to protect animals, animals contribute much wealth to a country.
Therefore, it is wise for a man, if he owns domestic animals, to give
every care and attention to their needs - grazing, water and shelter.
Also, when animals are sick, they should not be neglected, but given
the essential veterinary treatment they require.

A man's wealth may lie in his animals, and with due regard
to their needs an owner can raise his whole standards of living — able
to give his home and family all that is required to ensure a good and
prosperous future. The wise man knows this, and takes good care of
the welfare of his animals.

Let it be remembered that Man is just as dependent on
the humbler creatures of Creation, as they are on him.

There are however, many unfortunate people living in most
countries, who through ignorance, ill-treat and neglect the animals,
but that is not really the fault of these people — they do not know any
better. Such unfortunate people often neglect and ill~treat children
as well, and this is very serious.

Humane Education can help to remove such ignorance, and
replace it with useful knowledge which can benefit the people concerned,
and through them their country. Ignorance, poverty and disease ~ not
any part of the "rights of man" - must be eradicated completely, if
a country and its people would enjoy the natural benefits which should
be their true and undisputed right.

Many African countries are largely pastoral, therefore the
people belonging to such countries, have a great, and rich background -
the land. To get the best out of the land, the people must understand
the value of good cultivation, and the even greater value, of fine herds

 




of strong and wellvcared for livestock. All this important teaching
can be found through lessons learned from HEIA.

Many countries in Africa too, have a rich, natural heritage
of Wild Life. These animals also, contribute enormously to the wealth
of the country, and should have every protection given to them by the
people. The Wild Life of Africa can almost be said to be,"A world
Possession”. If the people of the countries possessing such a wealth
and beauty, of Wild Life take little interest in the protection and
preservation of the animals, these people are failing in a humane as well
as a moral duty.

ALL POACHING AND OTHER ILLEGAL HUNTING SHOULD BE ERADICATED
WITH THE UTMOST DETERMINATION, AND LEGITIMATE HUNTING BE
COMPLETELY CONTROLLED-— ESPECIALLY HUNTING FOR FOOD.

The Wild Life of Africa if allowed by the people of the country
concerned, to suffer destruction to the point of extinction, would be a
serious loss to the world, and therefore a tragedy. The Wild Animals
can never be replaced.

HEIA believes that through the care and protection of animals
- the humble, speechless, but sentient creatures ~ Man unconsciously
fosters within himself, that humans feeling of responsibility towards all
humanity. He therefore becomes fully awakened to the needs of his
fellow—men, and is able to express his moral sense of responsibility
through intelligent application of sympathetic understanding of the need
for tolerance, consideration and justice.

THE WORTH OF MAN IS UNDENIABLY PROVED BY HIS ATTITUDE
TOWARDS ALL DEFENCELESS CREATURES.

 

HEIA extends a warm invitation to all those who would
participate in the promotion of HUMANITARIAN principles, to become
associated with its activities - activities designed to better conditions
of human understanding.

Students and others concerned for the progressive, prosperous
and contented development of a country, are earnestly desired to give
their co—Operation in the promotion of humane teaching.

GROUPS OF HEIA CAN BE FORMED IN ALL COUNTRIES.

HEIA is non—political, non-racial, and believes in the unity
of all peoples whatever be their creed — there being no dividing line
in the pattern of the great Creator‘s plan - ALL have the same chance
to enrich the world with the priceless gift of, Compassion, Understanding
and Reverence for Life.

N.B. The generic term 'Man' has been used in the foregoing, but
‘Woman' too, is no less resPonsible for the fulfilment of the
moral duty towards those in need - perhaps, even more so, in
some respects, and for the promotion of humanitarianism.

Please write to HEIA for further particulars, and address to:-

The Director,
Humane Education Institute of Africa,
P. O. Box 2473, Dar es Salaam, Tanganyika.

(For telegraphic communications, the word "HEIA", may be used, followed
by the Post Box number, and Dar es Salaam).

 




Premetien of Humanitarian Principles.

Do We want .........................

PEACE OF MIND .................. _.
PEACE IN THE HEART ...................
PEACE FOR THE WORLD ..................

Yes, we do ———- hut how?
The answer is simple ...........................

We can achieve all this, and more — if we will
but realise our responsibilities towards our fellaw~
Lenten9 - towards all Defenceless Creatures, and that
includes the animals, too!

We have a Special respensibility to the animals —-
be they of the home, the field, or jungle.

GOD created the animals to enrich the world,
and to be the helpers of Man —— Man, who was then
created, was given a sacred TRUST~ the care of all
those lowly and defenceless creatures.

MAIN being the superior, it is his privilege to
create and foster the intelligent application of
humanitarianism towards the animals—by doing this
he too, will benefit by discovering a great power
ina true sense of sympathy and understanding in his
attitude towards all humanity.

That accomplished -— it is
then ”out a step to live within the
coveted region -— PEACE.

Issued by: Humane Education Institute of Africa. (HEIA).
P. O. Box 2473, Dar es Salaam, Tanganyika, FHA.

 




TTITAI ITLFTRT INSTITUTT7‘
'*"22 East 17th Street.
, New Ycrk .3, 33.3 3. '

"January 9, I962

«MrT. IsobTI SIT Tr _
3 BOX 2&73 '
Dar  @5 STITTT3 Tanganyika

3533 Mrs. SITTTT,

Thanks for TTT1TT the Takunda drawing. I'll Thaw it ta
The.people at The 200 ifI1 gTT the chance. Th3 talks about the “
article on thT TEIA T3aven'T 3Tb materialized. I Twill'try to get
in a worT for sand for The elephants, but thinkI had better start -
1T w3th0ut complalnta if we want to get TTII~TTthlished with them. .53
I'm dTI1LhtTT that, T3 a resuIt 0f my lending the film.yTT Tent t9
Tr. Cuy1er, they chide t0 Thaw it at their annual meeting which
'13 a hugT TffTir. uThTy TrT planni mg t0 senda study'group'TT ,
TTTKTTV1TT TTTTTT Imng, and I Trust they'll be in touch 41th you.

I hope TTT+ TTTTTTTtioT will be helpful for your mark. Of course,
the ZOTITgI GT1 Societ3 1T not bTTically humane in purpose. Sometimes
‘tTTy are Tat TVTT h=3mane in practice, but Iude think thTy can be,3_
valuable TIITTT in prTTTrviTg the wilﬁ animals. They are Tellues~
tablished and have a very strong bsard of directors.3 IT 303 can
'éenens+rTTT $13 :33 TtT Tf humane educaticn on rTvervubio 0f the
T31d.IifT3 1+ mT3 bT that thT3 can be convinced that th::s 13 a sound
approach. Mr. :Tkunia 3 picture Thou} d help.

I ngree T3Th 39m thaw Tang? 05 the cages in the Central Park  200
arT 300 QWTII, but, 0f course, TS compared with the cages we see
anzmTIS housed in IaboratcrieT 313 the timT thqy are immenTTLy .7
spac1ous3 To 1 think we should stick to our chief endeavor 1n the
main, Tné, in the event thaT we make real pregreTT wzth the Zoological
STTiTty in the f3eld in Thick it hag a genuzne interest (saving African
wilalife) I may bT able to TTTTT same 1n£luenca for larger cages as an
incidehta?3 Tattar.= . . 4

3 IT Dr. Grzimak Tall rTcTived by Africans? If he 15, thén I
Thculd think he would be T most helpful patrcn. I TTK this question '
because I think it so immensely impartant that everyone cannected with '
ETTA Thculd meet"th1T.qTalification.3‘HTVT you seen the picture magaZine,
-in German that he and KOTTTT LTrTnz and Hediger get out? I can't read-
German, but the pictures are dTI1ghtful. Perhapa they wvuld run an
~ article about the HTIA in it that wouId.help.

 Ies, of course I will send the film to Mr. Swallow if he asks ,'
for 1t. Mr. Swallow'mede an excellent spTSTch' against animal experi- 
.me; aha by children at the 18d t meeting of the Animal Care Panel in
‘Boston. It would have been publishea in the last Information Report
* if we hadn't had T last-minute refusal from the ACP, a ru11ng element
in which wants to promote such experiments.

'I did draw my GhriSTTTs card. I uSed to paint 3 lot before 
animal welfare took over Tllzmy time. If- youlshould be desperaté
for someone to ﬁraw something some time, let me know, but I can‘t'

[do much for I'm so overwhelmed with work for'the laboratory animals
that_I daren't take mmch Time Out for more enjcyable forms of humane

 




P. S. ﬁn ﬁﬁi mamber gmggéstéd.ﬁhat‘relatiV@$ @f'hars Might be
interﬁstgd in hel§ing with th@ EEIA. Ska saiﬁ aha wmmlﬂ
-wmita them. Thay avg: ‘

u
., 1'

ﬁr» an& Era. lﬁgllglPaﬁar Pam}
lag 4&1?“th i331; ﬁvﬁ .
.Egsaxwalﬁ

Jahagnegburg, 30 éfrica

 




v' m 7"

m

V

"r" r
.

mmw

\r
_l

v

"I ‘.

v:
i

v

{”3 ,3,

1 "‘1': ’1‘\ ‘-
f‘,, R I ‘

1 ,
.A ;,

W
w
m

h

\

; t

(b

.-.,...1;.' ..;:» cm .44" .24

ngJ-a“

NE, EDUCATION INSTITt
9F AFB

'7'
n
‘

/

m

it

“
0'

A.

'1‘

-.
I

E

 




 




1112*“ 1

ATIMAT TBLTATT.AT>TTTTTE
22 East 171T 81T9 991 P
New York 3, N99“Iork,

DecomboT 28,'1961

’MTS. 190991 S1919T

Box 2973

- Bar 99 391999, 199 ;anyika

WT . "I- ‘ .
D99T.mT9. $19199,

91191if9 film was 99W 911099; ._11 is up at the'BTonT zoo now,,
I- A 991 9991 from 1h9 Amorlo.an Tosoom of Natural History that 1999
A 5*”V”‘W 11. 1 wil1 a19o probably 99 shown in one or two 10091

b?”?"’$ 911 9919919. I wrote Joyoo Lambert to ask when she 99999 it 19
A391 “avwo't had 9 reply yet. ' .‘

IA ..9; you 991 9’9009191 about the Sohwoitzer Hospital in Haiti,
I 9991 11 ;AT 9‘19 19 yo9 9999 11m9 990 9999999 I thought it 999 rather
9:991 for f.“ . A flag: 91999-3111 1. :93: 90:99 1-51999 1J9} 90911 799. 39913111130 .
9 ”AMAEIT 9919h19r A.Avmn 3 99'1 9._; a; 199 HEIA 99999 ‘Uo ought to have
9999 91999 :9‘- 19191191 119: A” 91 9: I on 99yo99'999511r11 b9 interested."
£190 anythimg noTo 1991 99% ,A9 99A 99 now in 9999 I 999 1'9. oTtiole
999119999 Ty 199 H. 1. 190195199‘ 3A1191FVQ93 I WToto 19 my 1991 Iatter)~

.4”

.. ‘1 - 1. I, ‘9 -9 .. “'3
99919 99 hoiprwA.

-»..- Jr a‘

399999919: vowr r99 T799 aTAWT The 9V1 9nd HSHSA919 9d9 999919 answer

.99911 1919 9 9T99ﬁ TTTV 93T ‘9919T9. T99 99919 noA919 9T9 199995 The IRA

i9z A9 919 991A~9919191 oT*omIzatioo. 11 1919 94~T911on of aboo 1 five or
six hondroﬁ A91 VA1791 10991 homon9 909591193919 oT thro o hundr9d oi which
poT 9119 991M91 999119T9. It 19 ooRTTTvotAlo and Catt1OnS to 1A9 point that
som911m99 11 9~1no11v'worko 9991991 199 491f9T9 oi 199 animals. Tor example,
durinﬂ 119 {999T91 999999 -‘aoanboT mmﬂﬁlfn it “9919' 9 ToporA jointly with
tho 199 19 99 M991 199111919 {199 9991 pa CTITS organization)to tho eifect that
919di99 «Jere onﬁquav Two} more going to solve 911 the probl9ms. This ro~
port 93r<ozr19q at 9 meoth mg of the 910‘ 991 feoeration of womens? clubs nearly

Asuooeod9d in preventing tnoir passing a resolution in favor of compulsory‘

huméno 919ught9r legislation a vital mood in the campaign. The AHA has acted
similarly with respect to animal experimentation on occasion, and abOut seven‘
years 99o 1h9re was-on attempt it r9form through-tho-olection of more effective
humane directors. Then this jailed, some of the member< the staff started
the HSUS. The two Organizations haV9 boon at war ever $1999. 1 r9gret to say

IA that I would be dishonest if I gave you a recommendation of 9119 T, for though

both do good work, they both have 9199 serious shortcomings too. I will not
try to go into th999 unless vou have Some specific reason for wanting me to do
90. I certainly would not recommand your 9eeking to associate the HiIA with
either one.

At the iT toTnahional Iovo1,I have never boon able to grasp why tho
InternationaI Socieny for the Protection of Animals 993 formed. The World
Fedoration for the Protection of Animals ha 9 ooonsultative status with both
UNESCO and the Unitad Notions, and.I do not see the purpose of tho'second orm
ganizotion. However, I think there'can be a great deal of time wasted trying

,to unito humane organizations, and if different people want to start different

ones, that is all right. A most ablo yzung wOman, Margaret Williams of tha

 




 

Mrs. 190991919199 ' ‘ * +22- ‘ W ' ' ' 9999 28, “19631

Universities F9d9r9t199for Animal Welfare 19 V9; V 999139 in 999 WFPA, and
'I have much confid9nce in her work. . , ,

3999 rdiz3g Japan, the ESPCA has helmed the 9999  0£ 9119 J9pan Anim91
Ne1far9 $99199V. Lady 899901999 has 9099 9 9r9at d991. UF19 9999999999, 9399
is needed 99999 is 19919199109. Japan does 999 even 99V9 9 simple 9991991991ty

law, 199 91999 999 to protecﬁ 9xp9rim99991 991m919.

I am 9991 @3199 an 99913919 of 999 9911199 Act 999119999 9V UFAW 99 1
+919 Wt 311? 93V9 you 9 better grasp of the 19913199309 9999 just r99119 99
tﬂrOﬁéPttxﬁ Act 19991f.‘ If you are int999999d, I can 999d V99 9 copy.

99V9 V09 been receiving our 19909933109 9999999 r99919rlj I think-“Ii , :4
99959 rive 999 {ind of material Vou 999 far 19 your 19999r.~ If you 9999 9999»
thing d1f31r999, or extra 9933199 of 999 Inform9tian 99999993 199399 9999; 99
9econd 1993999, 1 am sending 93'999 9911 999 ’919 919 199999 99999199 with
th93r 999199H999 ‘199V 9r9 £911 of 19f9r99n3,3099 the 999d99319919199199.p

0999999199 Fr. 9999939399: 919 344r9 9319:.

Dr. “”99r*iﬁcdwe*tzer
799~9991,-9999111
999999 99999r113 Afxisa.

It is best 513 Vrzi L9 +9 919 in F 9999 TB”””F 9999'F991ish., 19 have 99%, heard
from.him.far 9’99 L399, 999 we report to 919 £999 3199 99 9199 on our work anﬂ
the 939999999199 91 the q01133911993“ 99991 99911939! t999’99 999909 poSsiblV keep
up with 999 999999909d9999 99 99991V9s. I 19 not 3999‘99999994399 could 9999r~‘
take to visit 919,-999 this would 9999 99 99 to 99 999 9999 99V 9f inter9sting'

_him if 109 00919 make the trip.

”R939rdiﬁ“ 999 iirjcr9ucm1 of 0,111999 amonz Ajffarent animal 9r099991ve.
groups, 391 9r9 19rtunate 19 1999993199 not uo be1999d 9399 99999 13:“9131999,
and I 99119V9 9999 999 9999 9h3ng is to leave 9999 91999. I9? the momenﬁ I 991913
the diff9r9n999 are 199019919 as 9199 but t1399 999V 999 be "llved with" quita
effectiV91y._ 9999 Von have extreszﬁ groups who 999999 911 9? nothing on 999 099 I
hand and dishonest zreups 9r 3991v119913 who 991.3 t90993999 are cansing~9nim91. '
suffering_on the other 9999, th9r9 19 99 99999 in trying to 99199 9199-9999,;f9r
that would d9strQV 911 9ff9ctiveness. I 9911 9V9 in d9:ing 911 one can and cooper»
ating with everyone 9n9 can work with, £19 ghting hard 9999 necessarV, and avoiding
unnecessary battles. I v

I hop9 your arm is 999ter. 939 enjoyed the picture of Vou  999999193 999
MPCA m9d91,9nd I 'V9 3999 $19 clipping to Mr. Cuyl9r at the zoo.

Bést wishes,

Sincerely,"

Eﬁcl,

"\"/ ‘3

 




62859mavu9<é€ééaa£ZWm <9;Z9wé%kéé gyﬂll%;%299

”Eff” Qﬂj%x 24279
JZZ-fgkn; 42999 :gZ;z¢%Idaﬂéam9/

{3“ ’77" -.

T

s ”QL/f gigggmwgydéz/ 6?J%/

M91 T911919 In9titut91 I 9 ‘1
”99t 17th 9. & 14th Secemher 61,

1...} 9,: ¢

,

I“ ‘ 1r Ink ‘1" \T n.3, V’ T‘ k

t w» 9014 129199 110111.
WRE T m wrht'vrrw' ﬂux-14‘- * , .‘ ' t ' . . , - K g» :A,:;_~.~ ~ ' . ,-~. v v~~w-~:¢ mm...“

57I999990
” ’ All the 397 rer ~ hotnws

,ered d99ot9tiehs,9hd 9 few '

tfggmﬁh fnw 3 my wntinn m everyth11g 90 ee9thI

of the Duke of 919h999HI19 9 lot to heIp thi

end 9mi9hle. I 999 ththIeo to he9r him 99y 9t tqe ut9te #19999

life of your country Inust he precv1ved1t 19 your duty t9 the WHO

99%» 90 9re9t 9 11919: heritage”. ur9199 t0 the Prime H1h1q+pr,Ie 919,

”veu 111 M know I 999 Pre9ideht of the 2001091991 oc19tv of Loﬂdoh 111
you”? I 94999981Y hOpe “II Covto, EII‘1.9 . 9? e9ent teak 1t t11‘ heart.

I 9r39999 the oo9o”IU91ty to feet many 199der9 from other Af91-99 States,
996 hlw9tem their 1h+erest 19 the ne9 Institute 9 99¢iosed work. I hope
th9 9t m999 eeht9et9 will 191109. Even the “th9 I99de ,“r §g919,{ehe of
the best in th9t 99d nou9+9vI 999 keen oh the 1999 :91 the prometion of
hum999 9dur9tioh,9h9 91omw999 his help when 999uir Row, let me try
to 9n999r the hownte in vour much ahnrenw9t9d latte r of “0v 10th. Animal
Food: th9nk vou 90 much fer the 11109m9+1oh. I OI 19 to~9h wvth the 99:1
culture dept.,to £191 out the Iﬂtewt n999 m 99 91+19199ted the reply 9991
r9gue to the point of ignorance! hen I 9g919 999191h99 the 9eoe9ﬁ1tv
for the live 9t099 t9 he 99ved,9nd that 99t111 91 fe991n9 stuff wnuI9 be
1h991uehle m the henIv 999, "I deh‘t think it heroe~9ry, 9nd what 99111
we do with it if 99 tot It”' I ,9t9ut “poke “ole home truths 99999dvn~
the inﬂiff 9999 ,999 1999r9999 91991~v99 However,in the enﬂ,I »91h9*eh
th9t the 9091t1oh I9 9+1I1 9991ou hut with 911 the r91n,there m9y be 9
0h9hre of survival for 99mm of the 9n1u919. I am not fini9he4 9nd ntenﬁ
to cont 9et 11990t the Ch1ef of the £99 9mm 93k him whether 99t+19 fo
mnnIﬁ heIp h19 “eonI m 1f hot 90w,9t 9099 future tlme. I know for 9 I9Pt
t19t the “9991 we .re the wor9t hit thr Quoh the drou9ht 9h 109t tens of
th0u919999 of C9ttle — their 91I9 11911hooﬂ It'9 very fru9t99t1ng. I
91II he 9L9d to been the H999 of IIerbezt 39ters in mihd PoliCY' I’m “0
9I99 you 9999099 ef 9y 1999 on this, PIe99e don’t ”0”Ty,IHIWQI” will re~
oeive 99ph 919, nut 99 I 999t1ohe6 hefor9,hy helping to htoteet the one,
vou 9T9 helnihv hath the “nonIe 991 the 9nim919. That 19 how it 19 in
n99+9r91 9r 991m1t1vo f9199. A 999 mtyilI 919 fer hi9 cattle,wheh he
wou14 not do the 9999 for his 'hrother I 'thihk we “99 :30 9 9r99t job
for A1919 9 hv 91919 ghe 99hnle 9099th1nu to th19k 9heut and throu9h the
9919919. mhe P”"IO””I +91hno of 9f91e9 99h he V9? dh ”1thout the1w liven
qfﬂnk SO Ihmro VQUII me no 499091 nf tho 991m91 hojqp gnu9099M gut —

the 97119 1139 tee we must 9999 to 99999999 ,but 91th 9 p199 lvlnf room
for 711,: 9m 911 €99 9999U999whw I9999 WeoarVgﬂ nrpnn Im *90 wild 1jfam.
pt nrpmqu the H1Iﬁ I1fm ﬂgpm t9ng_ t0 “hwnna ﬁve” SlI 1H? 19ndgaﬂd H?IUF“

LIV if thpmp hn"ht1990 9r9 to 99V9Inn 9foh9 990 UFIIVQ 11nes,ther€ WUSI

1mpvwfﬁhlv he mere pqd mgrg 1994 rgnulw f 1319 W Q/9ge mug t PQCOUTP‘G
wild I1f9 ““999999t199 in 99 m9hy I9rre 99 90091hle otherwise it
will 991*r91 V 199d to extermjn9tion in m9hv h99tc 9f +9319 0999I9199

 




0-00.00.

uloltnoIIoCulnnlcuoun

 

To open cut here-9

99 TC 9099 9399‘
but 13“?
1 ‘3
human 9, Egg T099 (39
T999999 9T99W99 n3999fu
(:1 933‘3 5 ‘3, 3/" r: V393
UT 9 ?Q t

1 911,3 T119399 35.}:
That

I 99990

a.»

{Fig.1 {:1 TA}

9 0 ﬂ?
9991k9 WlTﬂ 9 .

9999

:3 T”? :‘I'
99de

+939 Tuna

i$ it

ﬁY‘ 1!?.", (13%?

I
.. 3.-. . , ., '3

(3‘93; .- 3 3 9; <3, .91, ~39
\r’. ' > ‘ s,

39.795 9393 +97 3959 ‘T‘T'

1.) '-.I ,

5 0r T399 999?
918 T9 fiﬁkt, T9 TTTTD
mare abmut

3,, 9 T

Know, could T999 99

9 33b;;ct. I
T9 Lonﬁon f9? 0993

n '5“

;‘3. 93:11 1793 1.59333
5,5

13.7011 I" 59-, ,"3 '31. 55
5/“: t y 99“
1.76) {1

.
W I. l T 0'
TTThSW

T99r9

ﬂax/v” +171; ‘9 (rm

Lﬁi f5 ‘Te :16??? rs .1119}ng

3“ '3 ‘3”

1
_?’"1(:?3X'€3 a

The 3599

T T‘: 9. T
5/ 5‘. .2 ,. u

T')
f» . _
,w‘? 31 (j. "...—' .X, 1 :0; 7.1,

T“: 3:3 v.9:
1. . x -‘ ..' .VJ

... “Y‘ .3;
3,9

133139) T: 5‘}. 3‘33"?“
. ‘I‘

3.. :3 MS a
”3"

mm 9Th99

55/

Alt )3?

T
f

-, 3 33‘, a“ an t (2: C, ,9: hi ..
M99 19 999939“

9:33:71

9393c

‘5‘
I

3““! 3
,"fx ('3

I’VQ

3 “,1 ."T,

 

:T 909ﬁ Tn

Q + f5 3’ V‘J‘I’”, {31"}

99999 mm,

but 99
(“ET Th?

IﬁePTo 99
up?" int fﬂfsTT

vrn; 99Tw99

,
r”, _‘|_‘_ ,,

' .

f.
vL . .. 4-.
1.

T9399 bui: 9999’9T
T0 99199 9 999999, '
991d9 TTe F09rd members 951iTT.
T ﬁe T9 h9ve 99 much 99 9
3 3q39T

4L .

“i f.
9999. t
'1} ‘ ‘5’} 1:33 79‘9", my,

 

f EI‘cIHSOTIDNEI
man it) amulsua

‘sm xoa 'o "a

'"IIVW L‘dVNICI‘dO AH .LNEIS HO
‘NVV'IVS 53 INC

'V '3 ‘VXIANVDNVI

('V'I'a'H)

 

 

 

ANV NIVLNOC) .LON CI'IHOHS ‘cIEIllEI'I HIV NV

JEIDHVHDHHS E18 TIIAA .LI SHOCI 1.1 :II

T 33,9) r53 ‘ 393 +
, .9 Twmﬁ'shfmrhere'M

uuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuu .lIIIIICOI ICllillIDIOOIDIIOOIIIII’IOOI IN

I“
Q,

l

"Ollvgnaa ENVNHH :ssaxppe pue aureu S‘IQPUQS

"OH
9'9999

4‘»

A _4

I

WT

é—anq p10} puooo§——-)

 

 

 

 

CIOIOOIOQI~II IIOIIIO.IICOIQOOIIIOII'IOIODIOOC oouooI

IT; 1‘ f921‘1

1
Tﬁr‘a'ﬁr‘u‘f‘ {"5" 1:51;“?

T. :a (T!

3
9

xq‘va Fjvpra

3

T99

a.
(‘3‘, 1 I" 1’3 {f3 C‘ .._' "‘3
a“; ,.. «‘1 43¢), ' .3,

mm

{92. V21; :27: '1 3- .3, 91,3

’,
a. HA- 3

'T) '1
* f“: 1,": r9:
9 (‘3 2:14 .5 ' ‘

9T99

1 @9T 9

U
4?? F341)???

1' 933993
u ’?T\ J. 3

ii

0.

r",
\I'

waauanmumauuaa
o ~;r a m a

 

 

 

I.

1....

$3.?

5}

r...
l

g ’99,.“ u y“ 3: A. ‘4 ,
_., 1-,». .514 (v.9
w 3,110.1» 9.1 h}. ,3,

 

5 3' .
8—) «A, ,T "

T99

m7 maﬁa-9,9 Am”,

5 .3.
THAT,

‘ “(A ,9.» Jr a}? 9x,
1:) i. " ’. ﬂ 4, kg 9"

«’9

IAI.IOQOOIOIIIIIQIOIIIIOOIDQIDIQUOOOD§IOQ.¢IOIOIODOHOI -------

awwv‘doouav
~ H 3.13.131 H I V

\.
\
u

InnooccoocIItonooooolnoIon

 




c;%i;vaavae (:0 “:3962am; A/224Z2%k&2 €7/7A£@§%23z

”32/6? f ‘90 QZ?%$ 24/33:

42%1.ngx éﬂﬁﬁ' :gg;3¢%1¢a%gww¢/
{1‘ .79 Znyarzﬂybéa/ 615%

A...
1 ..; a: .: ”www.mlww

3 bit of 333t3ge thi3 WWyi

333$ hht 33+ive1v work With th3 SSPCKx w 3 m3m~
hum3hit3rw3h very ri3h, 333 h33 helped me such
Sh3 33 3 313333 of t133 13te Dr $11113m333 3f
She h3s 31W3ys 1iV33 in hentr331,1’m
:rem 3311,333 (3333 3013( into hospital.
333tor3 3111 13t her travelﬂﬁhe 13
I Whht 211 the A3V13ory Board
, L , _ L.L A 33 3033 as everythihv ié tied up.
'3333 to heve 133' a “3; L; ~3ALL~ L hontreel, among the ‘SPCA peep 313,
but hrs 3130333 3r L; ,13 T; . r: -,1 1 have 33v.r3 good friends in
h33t3331, 311 0r " . A “Qart the 133t1tute,1’m 8333, but they are
33t 33tive wehkeLH. Hr Duh1op the ﬁan3g3r 3f the ””003 in Nontreal «he

IVA. «a.

”:3. {D
f

h,

éuJo "3-5.

._,_...J ‘
H.) 9
f -“ '
.
,vv—uJ

”.5

3333 me th3ir 303th1y journal. I met m3ny 0f the memberg When 1 133t 313m
1t33 033333 in 1957, 333 1 must 33y,they gave me 3 Wanderful 13133me, but
331333 the impr333iah thet they only 313 so ort 0E 13331 work,moot1v with

tﬂﬁi? 313313 - 1 know they 3313 it W38 33""' L11 to r333h the frenehw 3eak§¢

peep 313 333 th3?e, 1 33th3he3 the cruelty 1L? ”3w3333,1 30 atronply

1331 that 311 3E us with 3nm331t3r193 133tlhntL 3ni 330E333lhc d 313 tion
to the 33u33, 3h3u13 333333333 one anoth3r,3hd try 0 Wet 3 united front.
Our h3313 prihe3313 333 the ALm but there 33v ha 3033 3333333 of the
work Which W3V 31E33r 3133et1v 333333t Qur 33313t1L¢ 53 vhich e38 3,1'm
arva it 13 the 3r1331eL hf ﬁhese Ohh3rhhﬂ 13 "thV t0 their b311°f“:”““
1y nehh3p3 311 333 arrive at the 33m3 3n1utwnh of 3 hrnhlem. 1
have h33 eontaeta for mshy y33r3 With 3 huWher of Aner1033 and “3303133
Societies, 333 it h3s hever £31133 to 7: 3 me, Whv there should he 30 many

diff3r33333 of Opinion 33 3 artaih 33t33W3 m it 3333 'rt seem the thing to

J

‘8:Wheﬂ We “$33110? hum331t331 3 @333 in Vé3eouver, my visit wa3 used
’3 3.rt 33'33333nan3r139 1O ~"»~ﬁ 311 the sociaties there toﬁether uhm
Lhe roof; it W33 3 th3erfn thh3rihg for one night only ~ the h heats
i3 t. ’3 3, ;L:r.. Lt, 333 yet,they were 311 so m3r331~
1 313,,3:31:13:~ 3 L“ ;_ «'L.3 my Weir e” in trying to keep up in the
rat r333. ' ”3h 1 $3 ; 1.1:LL.. 333 5 hwnqgnn +5, 13 four daysl and in
”1Ut33a~003 T “ ' 1,; W0 13 11kg the new Institute to t3
131”: With . L h3tur3 in the St3tes 333 333333 w
the knowliﬁﬁe of What ﬂpg; 3333iti333 of 3 human 3333,33t to 13
5371111,§11.S,€1%Y‘m?z1’19 “WW1! 1133316 :3 WFHDT‘C‘ 0f hfrlr' 131023151 have an uplifi.
effect,3 Thn f033331h 33333 to ha hv +he may, I have 33V13+3dyhut
333 no.1h+9whwnk wnn13 you 3333113r the‘stTQhaast‘ humane society? the
3u33h3 8333etv 3f tha US ,, 1.3 Amariceh £35333 society? F13333 333uge me
f0? QFEJWV "GIT 331310“ 03 .3_ but I Whuld value itgvery muchL ﬁre both
,3 theme 333133333 333v” t1; 33A 13h? 1 h333 had contaet with them f3? yea
3r3,333 €331 33”3r3333 th3t th3y 353 munnyo+n 03;: 33L33ti3hg,31+h333h fra3tm
‘33113 the 33m3 +3t13: ‘3 333+3331v 333 333 3*333333333 with hwW~33 333

3:3
”5

"1:341:51 t

21...: 3;} 3-3- 1—4 :5)
a?) “:5

.‘ ' A . « " 3 + 1 . +r AA AAAAAAA 13:33533 3? An
1': L.‘ 3!,» A! ,;"\ Au *3 73} «F. 1:51 ,3" "r 'r A) T"? e53 Q8 .f. C! 1",“?! ‘1‘? ‘32).” . 7, Yr". at ‘, n.1- ’ .. N; » ‘ ‘ ' '

t

.11 Ly' .~£1;:’ art!»
v in, . . {"— h? in a 4| -”» "
“333333“ m313LEOW t1? 33333333 333?3 m 33 3331+ FWWW‘ ~31 “31¢ 5131331h.-3,

 




k, :
1’77 (3'5. P31“r~1]3;:
tha TTTT 0137
(Dru? 1:11???

7/\ A
117,} E.

'3‘ \+

CD :34 1.1
r.Jc 7 ‘
{1‘5

33 T"

l
5

u
:3
m
M!
”w?
W

{3} “‘5
L1)

5" (D
1:3

d1
'3.) :—~—‘- >4

Art‘s; «A A ,1

ring CATV: Qf
" . ﬂmv
r‘z7a w~wuw ,1 h fQW w thﬁv

Z

other

:#5
{“9“ C)

Ftp-.1
r"

,Tith

unva

c1ean' WT
”#311 +171 “Winn”? +ppm

xx
a.)

A
N
M)
J

Pu
remtypin£111 1nmn 7&4
1‘m SUTT they mauld 1T TGTTT+ hm
1’1” ”haw
Tut. 19 ~P13m6, WTT
Tbaut TEX TQTTTT u“o.
to me,9t the T1111
TT+ TTTduniTg , “W, 11"“:
them T10TT GT 15m Tﬂwy
TelyiTg 0T

..
\m ‘

em

QT‘C’W’} Ch"? 1‘; ‘17’93
W31” the TTTv 10ﬁhmm+
50("1 EFWV-xru‘r?

1r ﬁ~3mﬁ '3‘,er

1188,0f
.9 idea we: Tad
whom TTked
qideration, TuThei up
for heT *TTﬂln 1T
neTrly ready, TTH w0u1d
TTVT‘TT 89 TOT vet;
frierg
ﬁrtis s are few
eertn. MONT Vpr,~omTV
etc; Schweitzer: L0
ion fer ifricav We m
Cabon? Inmharena
'm mu“ hTTé « suite 3
W319; .T stil1 vary pTinul,9Td
W P100QT te11 we 0f

.1
t 171": th Q—J—J—F’irs'i‘fo‘lﬂiher‘" 1 “7577'

1
To TTTT T

all
at;

ﬁt‘\:

A n 521 e: c:
m \J ».4 :‘J an)

m +hnv 3T0

in theae 9"? m3t f
we cauld

wig-I) (my.
.1,;,- 3

you shin
at be WT ij

3'!" ("‘Oﬂf‘n' /‘{5‘Y';.'3

‘71:“

"301:1!
Tusznaﬁﬁ
1T8 arm
.~v*naﬁ*

If) {3 {‘1’} "1“

 

”:11’1”? 1'1””

, sﬁrﬁrwﬁ‘k ‘11")
L712"? ”113:

.«. ..
‘1 mm (3‘1

-. 7“:

I"! '
:: 177:1

ﬁﬂd hrTqulﬁp

<73 (10';

. . . . L l, 1 _ "—4 .7 , )7,
' A.
. ‘ ‘Q
,‘n rt». - . w. "J. '
1151,, 11v , ‘ 1; :11"?wa
1: Li,“ «,I - 1 , L .1 , Jun 1. .-. ; s.k .
7 '1.-.) U » O!

l . ‘F
.1. .1. 1.

ﬁr

:3"
{D‘

I.
Q'

6

H
H.

1““ 59.4. 17+ {.0

J ~31" iii C+ iii”
4
._.>

I7

(13

II

«A. ’3)
L33
1:};

TLTTV 1 “mg
TTTk on
much,

TWTT

Tau

thvt

v 1:2 ‘r' v

T 13177111” :1 new"
_ 1Tb drqmwnzg
TEUI‘SHJQAy’ 3116 ‘. 3:
W91*~TTTTLTF
.31 TTTTE, Hut
chTrge the
fTT Trinting,
the TTW

J’ . {‘1 Y‘,

\

 

1

SSQIPP'C PUB GUIBU S ‘JGPUOS

6

Ml

HHHSOTONH

‘
0

To open cut here-9

{fgﬁ“
puooag—-—)

(’4’.'

 

vamv so 3101115111:
227
$1 5 (.1;

e ‘ff‘KWr"

”"Ei'é'imxoa '0 a

Mommas anvwnH
(.__5.qu p10}

11 ibo

I“, ~ r'". 1
(7 C I ‘
d~3Lwh

'11vw mvmcmo m was HO
"fwwws 53 am

‘6

 

 

'v 'a ‘vmmvomu
( '1 'a 'H)

.1.

-515: L13.

1:.

($34.

 

{‘1

ANN NIVlNOC) .LON GTHOHS HELLJH'I HIV NV

 

 

1.

IHDHVHDHHS E18 THAA .LI SHOCI .LI :II

‘18

 

 

 

 

 

"\

l
.5

uuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuu oun-o-....... 0...... g.

‘ awwvusouav
;_, Nomv uva

\

13119,»?

/ “up.“

 

 

 




  
   
     
      
     
    
   
   
   
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
  
  
  
  
  
   
 
 
   
  
     
   
     
        
      
     
     
        
       

  

55%i2muwng QTZészdﬁva {XEZWwéékﬂé €V/WJ%§Z;%2

(972,” (f f M
. / / 92’ W $9 9.4/29
“ZZ' _%m " 525?; 9%? 2/4 daéam/
Znﬂgngm 59/

7th 1Dec113161.

Your most heloful letter qrr‘tv th1e mornwng t
Will ens wer 1W 0 feW de ya When We get this Uhuru flap over. But I
necked up the £11m WWW rushed 1t 1W to A1rWeys tW1W eft erWooW before
evervth1ar eloees uewn tomorroW - for Uhuru holidays ' four days of 1t§
so tWet vou va cet the £11m 1W mood time before the 17th Dec. Chet W
"W1e1'111’1 1C? ea Of yours to WWOW the f1lm oW thet U”? 1eel°r dete. WWWY
1"Weftil than It W111 We Wed W- 16 m m. Wrojector — but I think I may

'>—--—--‘
p
1)

I _ T‘ 1 (:1 - ‘T‘
was urg utetehe,

have ment1nhed this in W Whav1n3q letter I Wu1 9 WCPQL cutting in
WW erelOWe 1W t11e 1"1.1111 hoX, showing the WreeeWtet1oW of the ASPCA
edel Whieh you might like to have ‘ The I'e ere e number of points

5W vog1r letter,1‘1l he Wr1t1W” Whout 1W W fe“ ”eve time w at the moment
th11 Uhuru is overf1+ lneko We 1f 1 “hell he WWWWW1WW m time 1W the
kitchen m heeé cook and bottle washer. W11 our serve Wts, naturallv Will
he on hol1day, 1W feet,feoee ere WulWy enough today throufh expectieb
the ho1id¢v tn eterﬁ *nﬁev me well! rWW‘1v1 T +W1W” ~o*"a “oiWW tn
CWWiWWt n fWW WWWOVWWWWW WWWW WCWWCWCQCCC 1C TC1+ ”CCCmP11‘
Ce‘eem ﬁe 11ke the UN ﬁeqem 11 m WWW tre 119' WWW? ““11“? CWQV

1"? (“1‘71 5:5 $1 Y‘

in for W WWW ‘01 days. The Tehg Covta, eeem to have imported literally
thouWeW e of WeW eWrW ~ all Wumb er UlﬁthHIuD" for touring all the 3
VIP'S Wreund, end from the looke of 1t,theyell have Wriority on the 1

Wtreets end perkihg “lqhes TheWkl weeveh, we 11ve m1lee out of the citY.
ﬂy hugbanﬁ WWd 1 Wre 1W 3 h1t 01° W f1X ~ so F‘CV 1Wv1t t1eWs to the
Stete f11hct1ons, and We Gen ‘t {W111hly “Attmv1 evervthihg ~ but,1f We
:1oW t nut in WW preerehee We'll be M1RKE peoplm that‘s the General
th1tuee. 3e11, We'll Wet round it ~omehow,1 Xneot but I don' t
relish these mass “etherlhws '12t al1. I DCPKPQ eome"4°1ly aper
Wrouhd the film in the box w you might find eome 1Wte7e 11H” reading!
Two big shocks this Week from Govt Wt the intiohel hssembly, one,
the order1hg of Eelhi e to veeete e11 tee1r Wort 1on6 (offices ,bertham
etc.,W1+h1W tWo 3eere,W1thout "ivinv any 95 vence notice to the Bel—
C“1'11“: Wovt., e1Wm We hes hed thege teo1l1t1ee :or WOWv veere WWW cost
W11110Ws to ouild etc Wo,2 “Weak 13 to the effect tha.t 3.11 private
dOPTOCC ere te WW; 8 1oeWee fee of 1100 1e? month‘ thet has raised
W Wrooer howl of in md1 WW tioW.The “hole th1m is erezy. Yve have few
eWeugh doctors We 1t 8, WWW most of them can hardly meke a livim
thee e devs. Looks li1<e the thin edco of the Wedge towards national - ‘
1eWt10W. It W111 be e piyy if things become a bit difficulty’for ‘
the level ouWoeeehe as time 3063 on m there‘ 3 suxe to he “ome odd 1
ideas coming eloWg,e Wout "1117eWeh1p hell With humidity at lOOdgs
today,ehd uhuru, I feel the Arctic cire1e woulo about suit me

The COWWIOiWW chatter,1s just a little PﬂqU”1 from
talkine Shep m tthIW1ll 1“ollow in my next letter. Do heoe you
Will he eble to WhoW the 111m Wt vour Wreseht tioW function, end that

It W111 bring a th Of nfrlca into your home Thank you Ownln.

PW31~9

 




991999 99 1 mug 1911 vou 199191 L 9g 199121

”our" 9 M0 91th} full 9f 199399199,but 99 996 993v

the Suxtps. 9999919? 99.9 he 9999 inng? 99 911191}
Tang9nylka rep.,of”T99 "119999 of 9fr1na 19 99991
having 99 9ked me, nor U1v19g 99y 1191,9119” of 999t

,. 3+ 531113“ 1:11:11: 1311 t at 275311 T - or} 11" 11mm T‘s-3:1 ‘1"
919 1 91119 1 m 99 M . 1 99919 in 01 9 9

1&1-

WW

9 number of 999119 "9919199 999 9rrived in 999 a 9 ~1ft £99m 99991
tr9191119g 119999199 f1lm u91t9,919 1 99rtjcul9r1y urge“ J? L.

do something 99999 9 999119 Veterinary u9it ~ 909 t9rribly 999999 999;“
such units for 199 99999,9u999999999911 99t 19 99911991T999999199,

W911? I'd 991199 999,99 1 9111 91991 1919199 999?,

39 +99 99y, the film 990919 be 9119999 1 ,1 1919 199 319199199
for 96909119991 9999999999 9 991 9999999

99919,1999k ygu

(—— First fold here —-)

jiﬁhéﬂg¥9LJld [94(9934/9175f1001ﬂ§

smwvuoouzrv
H ELLLEI'I ‘d I V

To open cut here»

\
w.)

VBIEHV :IO 319M153“

11191199111»

 

NQILVMKH JNVNnH ”8°19?“ P“ “In“ s«‘°P“°S

 

‘mz ma '0 'd

‘1‘

”1va LHVNICI‘CIO AH .LNEIS HO
‘NVV'WS 53 ENG

(13519111911113 EIEI 111m 11 53100 11 :11 f 311115013113

‘\\

 

'V ‘3 ‘VXIANVSNVI.

('V’l'! 'H)

 

 

 

 

ANV NIVLNOD .LON (I'IHOHS HELLJHT ‘dIV NV

CINVDH 5’.“
11.11- 1” 1

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




IIDCLIIVI

III Iﬁb IIIUTI

22 East 1?th StrC It

IVES-t“ .1...» ram.-

»1‘ m}

u t r‘ ‘ﬁr’a

JIdtaL
1

2m? Tanganyika

($91.5:
__ slimy: x 3

wamw 1a
.5
. ,.. , ,,
«S ’a' w ,m 'I’. i «" "v’kul C N" “L, 1‘" 3'“: 31* 4 ("1":

g ‘.‘

11‘1“"- $ H“ I! .K: ,, ‘3'»: -I: I I:
I": \ 1L 3'} .15..- k" , 1,.) 9,: k“; “,1 ,5 ,3‘- j ‘} CI.— ‘C.’ 5'!- 13%;.
b .1

.«M 4‘} S A '3 ’ >5 “ﬂuff 4
.d": “" ~ ”“.'v ‘" 2., ' i I ,v,_ . “ ' F 41..
pm} 1; ha; «ELL? . . C7" . ‘ «’J a“) ‘4' f3? . 3123‘;

a
“6

‘Y' - a- ,
Y 1"; 5:4; 3_ 1- .51; 3 u fur.» ’,.‘ 't‘ 1 [.7‘ '.'
K 4 ;_...:€_A ‘J 54, {A (J .:._ V A

5; II _ ‘1' , ' " .
:_J'V. 5 ~ u. .;,. I“. -v ..-“ m ' ,.:( him...

‘§

1:1.» L12; C. -J ’.

"1

«K
1?,

.... ”“1 :5: A
.t 5-4;. k K 1731
2:2 .1
A. g b as
2:} ‘
LIN? .

r «a
C, «J... 4... a",
k" In.) H kg; i. A

31 Iv“; v0“ in;
fifty)! .12.“; «.LG‘}.

C T

:rom
fﬂiﬁn iC

"CEBU. "3‘ I...

.1"? f .1 .
ChIQC thaz'g
iiour CCIIIECfuI 21b
“ a: M. I . 3-.
.I- ' ’6'“? {3:17.13}; 3 :3. :1 {3' 2:, « I V L!” _. {iIE

MCwayS baI hInﬂ

I hupe 311.50Is Wéll I: Ch
$0035

EH01.

Iaﬁy Imam ﬁlICC

___ ”1 " "1'
Wind iqbtii'da ”’

EC"

" f‘ ‘ L., _ .' ‘, . ,.__
3;;le mu .Ir-C bean Oh the

c""‘-':.- . ‘
will}.

IV“
.Lo

Becember 12 1961.

t

W '5
k:

we :33
{w m

H“

«1+ K-«‘
{I}
m QIU

rat
in?

am ﬁappy
tMrib outIons
amkesyz

O
{:3
\a
r11
:25

Pa}. “7—4“ cf 3:} (9

E11: 2'”: (
AYII ﬂmep

x. a
. I. 1” 4,. . .-.

, . 1‘ x. . ’f .
. 'vf .C .C‘w id 3; ‘2} (“a

staff of
Whom I .
She wonﬁers
scnIe 0: the
I told

. ﬁatare and to
baby ”leydanbo
Cgmﬁ to came to
”w ‘ summer.
write yau
_ r Er. van Scfiwinderen
CCCthnb similar).

lstmaﬁ Card
4” III Ior our Christmas

arrived, for which many
card~thi$

the Imrk, and I'll be Im Titing

a“?

 




      
     
 
   
 
      
  

THE AMERICAN MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY
CENTRAL PARK WEST AT 79th STREET
NEW YORK 24, N. Y.

Dec. 21,

 
 

Mrs. Roger Stevens _
30 East 76 Street, Carlyle Aptsl,
New York ZR, No Yo

       
    
     

My dear Mrs. Stevens;
Mrs. Elizabeth Scott spoke to me

about a fine film whichZIshe had the

 

of seeing at your home; I believe it is a

       
        
    
    
  
 
  

color film about the animals of Tanganika,
Africa, and she was extremely enthusiastic.
She thought some of our staff, i. e. the
Department of Education here should certainly
see it. I understand it is going up to

Canada in January and as I will be away until

January 6th I wonder if it will be possible

 
   

for us to preview it before it leaves N. Y.

      
  
 

       

Sincerely“;

44/7 Cit-«’fjllz.’ at?” gain: (iii/gal.)
‘ Ma: "guerite N gardéj

In'c arge of “Free Eilfn

PIES) rams for General Public.

  
  
 
  

l/9/62.She will phone Mr.Cuyler 8; get film for preview by
Bept of Educ.staff.Will phone me when she gets filmt8ntlet us

h v lon she needs to keep it.Probably Will wan o1 ge.
13):; f2; filrgh for showing to gempubllc sometime after May.

 




MIMI, momma .WSTITUTE
V22 Eootrl7th Street
New York 3, New York ‘

g Eovomber 30,'1961

Mrs. IsoboliSlator
; Humane Eduoation Institute or Africa
> Pa O". BOX 21473 .’ . V ' ‘
Bar es Salaam, Tanganyika.

Doortﬁrs;vﬁlotor,

- I road your full account of the oitootion-with much interoot and hasten to
reply as boot 1 con to tho questions you ask; ~I‘ohall go right through them in
ttorder. First, I.ttink thot there wOuldxbo'a possibility 0f obtaining animal
food in emergooCioo from.tho American government.. I am.not sure of the best way
to go about thio. However,.ono person whoso‘namo you should have is Herbert
'Wators who is the Boputy commissioner of tho International Cooperation Adminioq.
'tration; Eo used-to ho Senator Humphrey's”Admﬂnistrotivo Assistant, and his-
_dotormiood offorto in behalf of tho-humane slaughter bill had an important in-
:fluonoo in ito~possago. He is humane and would help, I fool euro, whoa he could.
; _I tako it from_what you say in your'lottor that the timo has now passed for seeking
.," for snob food as for as tho_most recent crisis is concerned. I ' -* 7'

I agroo with you concerning the broad principle of.revoronco ﬂor all life as
. moaning.ovonything'alivo. Dr. Schweitzer has Certainly made that plain.” It was
3omong tho hippos that'ho thought of the principle,"bot he extends it to man, too.
- However,.I think it is very importaot that the animals Should recoivo the main
' omphaois in the work of tho Humane Education Institute of Africa. ‘lf they don‘t,
ﬁhﬁy might ho gradually oquoozod out altOgothor in the years to Come. I know of
inotaooos of thot_kiod of thing happening in humane organizations in this country;
I havo great confidence in your*handling of the program. You_hovo already done so.'
wonderfully well in Tanganyika, and.you,'no-doubt, plan to continue along the gate
general limos. " , ' . ‘ “ , t. v ‘ . f

.It is good to know that the animals in-the hospital laboratory“faro so.woll.

That is the may it shoold ho; Concerning legislation, British law on this subject

is by for tho most strict and thorough. I do not know of any country in the world-
‘-that roqoiros anoothotizotion undor all circumstances.' The Britiéh Act, of Course, v
'*requiros it as a general orinciple but allows specific-exceptions specially granted-
by the Home Office. _If you did not have so much on your hands starting.a now or-
ganization, I would suggest that you sook to got.logislation equivalent to the British
.Act passed in Tanganyika now while there would probably be little or no opposition to
itc~ EVory Sign indicates-that animal experimentation isoxpanding globally at a
terrific‘ratosand the noo'AfriCan countries will.doubtles$ follow the general fashion
t”beforevlong. When oXperimonting on animals becomos a big thing, tho difficulties of
tapassing regulatory legislation.becomo enormous, we haze a desperate struggle on our.
"hands. I recently read an estimate by a much travelled-bacteriologiSt that the United
‘Statoo currently uses more animals fOr oxporimontatiDn than all the root of the world
put togothor.4 However, with the activities of UNESCO, under which thoInternatiooal
‘Committeo on loboratory Animals operates, and through various othar moons this huge
growth'io liko1y_to spread elsewhero._ Japan is outstanding in its appalliogvmis- ’
,troatmont of oxperimental-animalo, as you'doubtloso know if you bro in touch With.tho
VJapan Animal Welfaro Society,but in mmny'Orienta1,countries-thero is no aotivity at
all even to look into the matter, not_to speak of actually soaking to protect the

 




I~'Mrs. Isobel Slater -‘ m  ' ' ” . ~.<ﬁ; ,  ' November 3051961

theianimals.
_ In anéwer to year questibn abeut mﬂmbershipﬁ I think tan dallars~is a ssund
ambunt to ask far mBMbership-for averseas pecple. You could‘also have $25900.

[and $100.00 membershipsw '
, Concerning the Advisory Board, I would be hapgy‘ta be a mgmber; ‘I kﬂOW'MrS.V '~'
'Lambert‘is an excelleﬁ$ wurker and did a great deal in the fight far huménea
Aalaughter legislation in Ganada.' I don't know.ﬁi$s'ﬁilliams. .1 haVe‘lgng baan
'é under the impression thah Montrgal was a tmtallvac&um so far as affactive humane:‘
.wbrk,is Concerned and am very gEad to learn th@re7is some0n9}gaod'theré. I,would“ :
be grateful'tc have Niss7w1111ams' full mama and address Sc‘that I can.get Ln teach  
with.her in future whﬁn we have"%0ntreal ﬁroblema {a bad.set 0f children’a @3w.‘ " -‘
5»periments on animals was one we didn't knothow to deal wiﬂh about=a”year ago, fer
’fexample). DOQS‘She wark with.an organization? .I only knaW”0f_the Montreal SPﬂﬁ*
nich dees little fer animals and the Canadian Gauncil for Animal ‘ifsil‘ésfilJ‘-’."‘aau"eM9 whiﬁh is
humane~in motivatiOn but.ineffective. ; " *4 , .- ‘

. I think having Chief Fundikira as the head of the Advisory Boarﬁ 15 am ax»

7' cellent idea, and I sheuld think it would be wise to ceéOpt a secend AfriCan leader

a”yas seen as possible. Concerning'an American.man, may I have a little time t0 gammd
. out qne or two peeple to see.whether they would be genuinely intgrestad?

If you would like to send the wildlifa film new; pleaﬁs‘dm.‘-%a are having a
meeting at which the Schweitzerlﬁedal for l?61'i$ baing awarded ta Bill Carr, the _
‘ reporter and columnist. It is te-be held in my apartment'cnwnacember 17th.‘ If the
film.arrives in time we cauld try to shay it; I have never tried be show a filmu'
there but theralis one gocd sized room in which I think it may.ba yasaibla $0 do so,
and the faCt that this mﬁeting is already arranged makes.it saem sensible.to try t0,~
do so. 71 can send the film on to Mrs. Lamberi in January‘aa you suggest. If it
[proves imposSible to Show the film in the~apartmenﬁ, we can arrange t0 ghow it-to a‘
smaller group_in a studio later. 4 € V ' ' "

I haven't any COHHGCEiOns sith‘publishers'of children's backs, bat do know
slightly several péoyla.who write children‘s booka who céuld perhaps.give gomd '
advice; If it wcuid-be helpful for me'to send your manuscript to a likely Pub»

_mlishar from here and, in CESG the first did not want to publish the staries,,$wad
them on to a;$econd one instead.0f having them make the trip back and,f$rth #0
Africa in case the first try didn't Hark, 1-wgu1d be glad to db.ao. There'is ‘
growing interest-in Africa nOW,-and the'starie$ might b8 very easy to placag‘but I .
can only guess at‘this. ' ' , - ‘. _ . , ' ‘ _ w -   _ '

ConCerning the symbol for the HEIA,'I have told tagmagy people your wandarful'
V‘stcry of the bay whq walkad with the ba,y elephant sixty_miles to get help for it.
I think he an& the elephant would make an-ideql symbel, far that is a truly ims . .
~ pressive story and shows-wha$ humane education is all abautgethat paepleyraally cénf
be good and self-sacrificing déspite the incredible salfishneBSjwe all gncounter 39‘.,
'often. Whoaver~m&de tha lovely picture of thachild releasing the bird fromths Cage
_ might perhaps be prevaileﬂ,upon to portray bay amﬁ‘elephant. Thejfact ﬁhat tha bay
was anséfrican and the elephant_an African animal wmuld seem to make it more ak: .
"pr0priate than St. Francis Who'ié so.far away in time and’apaceg‘ it would certainly"';
_hélp'to bring home in foreign landg-ﬁhe'wark that you are doing and how it can deVelpr'”
nobility of thaught and action in human beings. Iheﬁelephant, too, is a nable animal,
a aymbol of tha magnificent wild life of Africa, and the fact that thia individua1 
was a small baby would make it doubly appealing. ? “ 7 _ v '

 




REV. Isabel SlRth ,1 " ’13” . 3 '. RRVRmbRr 303 1961

I am‘RR deiRRth to Know RRRR you RrR rRRRlVlnR R madal frcm thR RSRCR.
This‘shRR1 d RRlpg R003 t0 iRrRRRr VoRV RorR. I am RR3ry that your arm is Rtill
in R RliRR, but RR VRRR injury RRR incuVVRd 1R RRR 1inR of duty; I don't RRiRk
‘iR will RR R dFRWbRQk Rt R11 far thR erRRRRR i am.

. RR 1 RRVR RRRR VVRR1VR I'VR RRRR RRRRRRRR about pRRRiRlR RRRRlR for Vaur
RdViRRrV RRRRittRR9 Rad ORR RRRR RRRVR RRRiRR back ta mind 13 R1RaRor ClRRR
*gRRR RRR- RR vaRMRR R RVRRRRRRRR 50R for RRR JRpRR Animal NRIerR RaciRtV in
~dRVRlRp1RR iRRRrRRR RRR raising fRRRR in? them. She is now working in,GVRRRR,
"RRRVR RRR *RVRRRR1 'R~R RRV RRRRR full, st R11 thR RRmR her RprriRRRR night
Stuﬂd.thh RRR IRR RRLVRR RR Road RRRRR. 1 hRVRR'R RRRn in CRrrRRpoRR RRRR with
RRV juRR VRRRRR1VV RRR RRR addrRRR 1 RRVR for th is RVR. R. A. GleRR, 0/3
RriRiRRV RRRRR RV, RtRRanwlR RRRR vow.VoRlﬁ “LRR R write to her juRV RR 1RR RR r
RRRR‘RRRR VRR RVR RRiRR RRd RR? R fRRIRJ RR RR RhRRRRr VRR VRRld.kikR R0 iRVRRR
‘hﬂf RR RRRRRR R RRRRRV 0V ﬂﬂtc

RRRRR M VRRR “let RR :1 R ”13R JRR RRiRR 1 RRR11.cthRin1V RRR in afforbs
RR IRRRurRi “ :iRR 1 R 1 RRRRRi Rt it: 13R RRV+ Rin1y must RRVR RRRrRthiRl
Rng, '2 . I ,

'SincerelV,

 




:jszsbgwx $75354‘

HUMANE E mommy ween:
‘ * 0F ”31023. 2 '
p.e.eox 3e75,
Der ee Seleere9

(”3. ~.. ~’ ‘
'iengenylke.‘

(

lﬁth’ﬁeveyber 19619

Mrs CwStevens, - a r.,
.Animel'Welﬁere Institute?
22 Beet 17th 34,,

ﬁew Yerk 3,

If

Derr hrs Stev:ne9 - , ,
‘- J T Your meet weleeme cheque arrived ebeut e week egeﬁeed
1 eheuld have eekeewledged it eight eweyyee pleeee fergive the ﬁeley, but
due te ene thing end enether m ell terribly eerryinﬁg 1 heﬁ te ﬁeeh integein,
to try end help, But firet ef e11,let me eey,hee deeply 1 epereeiete‘yeer '

genereeity u the denetiee will be e greet help fewerde the eteet ef beiidinﬁ~

up seme funds, Amethe? cheque errivee frem e friend im'Qeeeee eﬁth the eeme

mail; e0 I felt euite eleted,, I em met bline te the feetgthet the new era

genieetien 1e geing te enteil eeee expeeeeyevee 1e e emeli wee ﬁe eegie with:

‘ee ee much has get to be dene by mail? neﬁ te mentiee effiee euepiéeeyeeegg
3

but I ietend deleyieg e little in get all the peﬁnieﬁ peeergeteggeeeeeeeeya
'until I eat 2Abet'furﬁhef ES :eeﬁmdm ﬂ @“Wﬁtitutiﬂﬁ ﬁwﬂ $77 fhef'» 3W f$e

1‘!

h a 0 \ -, " . ’ ‘ . r q ~ 4' v . . . . “' " ”a"; a”. ‘ V V“ ""3"
meenfime31 em gettwne em mate Dwellelnef? eeeeueeemeete eu+ eeeteeteg :‘m

“7'

m+311 enemheneee,ee eleeee everleek.fveing eererei ; heve ee eeeh ﬁe ﬁell!
. J 0‘ {a J, ,5 '

' ‘ v V a . . e __'g ._ , e”, . 7,;‘vj'; '

you, eee "elee ee‘ emth yeuy I herdly enee‘wheze t0 eeelee

:-

Firef ef ell,_ee ere reelly in tremble heee?ﬁee ﬁe the
faque end fleede m the tee dieee ere eemimg tegetber bee eheee up ﬂee nee
preparedness Of the eeuntry, endrKenye ie.even in e eeree glighﬁg-It’e e
'hepeleee mess, Theueeede ef eeieele,heve dime free eﬁereeeieeg eee,here ieV
,the~erueie1 point m theueeede ef the peeyle,pertie ulerly ehildree‘heve-died-
toe9 from etervetien,end’frem drowning: ﬁeturellyg ell iheughte ewe effm.
erte are being directed new,ﬁe eevieg hueee life m ee meetiee ef the eeimele
at ell, end I heve been geieg ebeut.thinge in-e reundebeut we? te»try end
de something about the enimeleav My big point ie thie m theee enimele ere
the eole livliheed‘ef the peeple, end the peeple ehe survivewheeieg leet
their livestock, will-heve nething,_e4d me meene te buy eteek‘te etert eeein
Thﬁ.Meeei heve.beee terribly herd hit,end their ehele lieliheed.degende 0e
their cettle m the people themselvee are dying like fliee,ene-3reetieelly ‘
e11 their cattle heve died ef'etervetion, in e weyglergely their Gee fault
for keeping such enermeue herdereitheut euffieieet greeieg for #hem m but
egein91 bleme‘theee in eutherity for eherteightedeeee'ie met eefereieg a
law as regards the number of settle te be kept on ee meey eeree, emeeieen",
aid hee been wonderful in preeiding feee for the peeyle,omd ite been 2 @ﬁge'
ef ell heads on deck to get the.feodetuffe‘dietributed,eepeeielly te.the ‘
ereee completely out off by fleed. But here is my point? end 1 ereseee thie
heme to Govt,, (ineidentellygl teld Mr Merewith when he wee here, and her
,expreeeed eetoniehment thet no mention was made ef enimel feeding stuff) J ‘
that considering the liveeteek,meent the enly means of livliheed ﬁe e0 meny_
‘eterving tribes, Why,wee ne.reeueet made te try and obtain animal feed as
well es fer'the people. Everbedy has looked at me in emezement_m enimel
feedi yes, I have replied, animal feed m for what ere these peeple geing
to-de,to live,once they SurviVe the present disaster? they will have no. '
steak at ell, Surely, if the liveeteek could have been'eaved, the demeetic
economy would have been eeved too., I am ereﬁty sure that if the genereue
Americans had been told that’tengof themeende of the famine and flood etrégk

 




I , 2, ‘ 1. .
330313 M neod3nt on animals for their livlihood,requ1reo 331113 food for
the etorvinv 3313311, t he food would have be3h forthcoming. It is quite
heWKt wbreakihg, and there 3 333'3. so 111113 one can do in th3 £333 of such
‘odde. 1:13331 th3t this ceteetrophy 3111 see the break up of these ratherT
wonderful oettlemowo1ng tribes « 1h3 M33 31 hegoyo end WesuliuMa and that
th1hk 3111 he 3 113oedy. * 1. '

‘Wy other urgent 33331 th1e 1331.333k hee 11331-z-211II the Congo 33313; Yihe t 3

‘._ghee 11y 33313333 1h3r3 The 1313333 Province 111131-1113c I reoe1ved urge eht

,repor13 from1u33d3~Uruh 1 (113311, little better) that The Europehe were
31333135 in there from.3eroes the Lake 1133133 from the bloody mee ueeore in
1313333 w 333, these unforLuoete people he 33 had to 133 333 their pets behind:
to he eluWhtered by the crazy, mutiheere of the ooogoleee army. Wow, I have
h3d 13 me k3 urgent 30313313 with verioue sources in the Congo, to see whether
the WW onrcoo1el oeh do,wh31 they did 1331 year when the trouble started -
11h3t 13-13 rouoomup the 333 poor heWiIderedr enima legend put »trhem down: I 333~
hot 3333331333, but then I dOh t 1333 the ethics of 111 311,3hy the UN 1roop3
h333111 ho mower to 3133p out 311 theee murderous 111133333, and reetore '
order over 1h whoIe Congo1 It seems there must be some dangerous loopholes
13 the WW oherter,1f the troope ere not 3110333 to us 3 force to 31013 such “
Imcrhdihlo’InCIWQHIS of h33b3r1 meeeeore. I 3 m BSKIRE the r1t1eh Ambeeré
3333 33313 331133 13 touch with eome of the more r33 ohehle Congolese leed~
er311h ord.er to mnke some 3333 1333313 et31t1he 3 group of Humane Education
work ere, It 13 31131 1het Wumen113r1eh prihoipiee he'estehl13h33 in some vgey,
13 1331.33u31ry. 1331 veer I 33331 monthe end months on the problem, and wee
31133133 heooy “ever31 11m to 11y there, but the Ir111 h A.wou13 not give
133 0.1.133 it 333333. 33111 M331 Com1aoh eehse toIW me that it eooldh 1 e
33313 jo11rhey 33111 3331111333 3311133 down a 303 I feel some action must be
1333“ I 333 3333 3n31011313331 p133 with e hjee1ohery doctor, who was  3o keen
‘13 heIo in the oree 1331133 of 3'hum3oe body 1;h313, to go to the Congo 33
Moon 33 1331 19133 1333 the ﬁeoei1CIA. that 333 1331 year ~33133 that dootn
or 333 exterm1heteWI 313 no 3333 33 to What happened '1h13 131331 murder
/of the E13113h 31rmeh 1111 “ur 1y bring forth eome 13313113 action hy th 3UW
$3313 refuwM ”Tom Woeoﬁem“wnhI1 hove 333 3333131310 T3333hyika. 7
““3 1h3 3311 he: ﬁﬂﬂ 331 for 31311133 33:1 food for the 33 people too. I have
313333 1331 31333 133331 1133 31th the 331m31 3311313 society there, very well
333 hv the “3131333 but 1h13 113331131103 313 o, hes come up 3131net trouble
33 33 meoy of the ”3131333 have had to 13313. Wow,you can see how much
13 to he done 13 Afrioe by 3 Iumeoe Eoiuoetioh organisation « it 13,3 immeh3e
UﬂdQFISKIWﬂy hut I 3m firmly 333313333 that it IS'Onlbey bringing humanitw
'3weamem 1113 the 1113 of 1heee p31he113311y undeveloped people,that any
p o 31311.3111 come to these dark oountrie . . I know whet humane teachin‘
31d for the peopIe 113 T3333nV1k3 Q 11 33 dark ehQ13h here too, at 033 314gei
.33 I om profoundly oohvioeed that 1h3;33me methods of eoproeoh would 113hten

we

‘the oerkneee 13 other African oohtrl

After 3311135 down 3‘11jof 1he foreeoihg,1 mu31  how thehh 3/33 131 your

1311313 m the 333 reoeh1lv w11h the he 31pfu1 oheoue, end the other, d3 ted Sept..
Sth ju3t Arr1veo‘ 113 31 have come per 333 mail Th31 1~T1he 131:1er meht1oon_
iheg1he31r1131 of the 11331313,,e1o,,3/11I 3133 about the 1333 of affiliation.
I‘m 33113 oer131o 1n mv own mind thet this Institute of Afr133  shou13 have
333031311on 111h America h,for ohoiee ,31m113r oryeh1331lohe ~ to give  the no?
133111313 the quKINE 11 he ode. Lvenvwhere 1h AfrIoa today, as fer as the
c ouhtriee I heqe 3331331 w1th and of cooree Tehrahv1ka, 3333 to reckon eoya
1;h1hg connected with A331133 33 of the utmoSt imoOrtehoe - end 33 I know th31
Ithe work Iyihe “head in Africa will be herd 30133 for 3 long time, 11 oer131313
3eem;3 to  b3 1h3 obvious oeuree to become 3333313133 with 1333133. Could 33
*3130 he eff1l1ated With 3  0333313 3n humehe or33n133110n9 I have many k“““
- “UPCOIIQIS 1 3 033333 311 1otehsely 1nterested ihlthe wIdgr p§o%egthgg hZE2~I
" he the underdeve Io 33 African countr1.es genera y. 0 W S I : 3.
' éoay here to 3133u3§ thing;s 31th but there 13 nobody atniiilgeailgolgaintIéw
'330ugh, A3 for Chief I'uhdikira ~ he W111 heck me up in 9 E

 




a. .‘ , . V V 59 i . .

at the some time,3uet‘coh3idere that l oeh.well*meuege on my own: Qi course,'
he, like everybody elee,is so preoccupied with Tanganyika effeire,thet he
‘doee’nt have the time to really eeeimilete'all I try to explain to him.'

.The point is-thie>~ I went to have e policy based rather on the Schweitzer
prihoiple m reverence for'ell life, theeomplete.promotiohof humanitarieu .
. principlee.direeted towerde awakening that sense of oompeeeiohauhderetehdihg-
»ehd justice for all livihgoreeturesa Thiegto my mind je whet humeue Eduoetion
ih“geuerel terme muet aim at; The poor primitive people of Africl,eo close in
kinship with the enimele,ueed this,teachihggehd through thie,leern mere and
kindneSS for the ehimale tool - 1-doh't think that the-humeu'epeoiee can he
separated from the animals in these oountrieeghheh_promotihg the teeohihg of ‘
humeniterianism, Again,we_heve to think of the Suffering from ignorehoegpovw/
erty and dieeeee,effliotihg millions ih_lfrioe,eud ee you will judge from.the ,
foregoing account of famine and flood havoc, to talk of suffering-ehimelh‘elohe,
could not carry the eeme weight,$herefore3my conviction ie,thet through Humane?
education,we can help the peoole as well 33 the ehimele,for ihoeeu the ehimele
_will have no Chance-of eurvivel,unlees through the humeh element he 08H promote,
our humane teeehihg.." I.heve proved this conclusively in Tehgeuyihe9eud l eeh
go further and soy,thet it is due in e large meeeure to the humeue teeohihg of '
the people here,thet has helped the transition taking pleoe in Tehgehyihe to

,work_so emoothlyi There is no doubt thet the people heve leerhed hihuheee end
underetehding through the work'eeoompliehed 'ih promoting humane thinkihg in
eonneCtieu with animals. The Afrieeh people ere so receptive to any teeehihg
when approeohed in e kind.ahd friendly'weyi. I am confident that e greet~deel
of gooﬂ cah.be achieved all over Africa through‘humene eduoetioh9 hut ee*l heVe§
already mentioned,l am not ineeneihle as to the immeueity of the undertekihgilt

will.require"mehy tools" to eerry out this worki,

'.Will you please give me your oehdid Viewe oh Such e policy thet l have in’

mind. , _ - '
, ‘ You mention. medical research eud vivieeotioh? Welliftehkly,l do not
not enough about that side of thingeito expreee e ueeful ogiuioh, Eortuhetely,
we are spared that sort of thing here, however,.1 do know from reediug‘the
varioue reports you kindly eend me; and eleo reporte,eomhehte,ehd.oemhehietioh
~from other sources, that the whole problem ie meet oomtrovereielyehd ho reel
solution has been found, I muet,eey,thet eome_pieturee I hove eeeh of living .
animals suffering whet muetibe-grim torture in lehoretoriee,heve made me_reeeoh
-thet surely if eXperimeute must he mede on living.ehimale,the terrifiee eteete
ureé Should he‘plaoed'uoder humane eneeethetizetiohi l eeh”t.thihh thet hood
,oould reeult from ehy experimeht which eeuses ahy livihe ehtmel heih one ﬂute .
fering.'Pereohelly9if.ex perimehte must he mode in the inteteete of humeh lift;
I’d sooner see some of those wicked and lawleee geugetere end murderers oh the‘
leboretorytteble,in place of a defeueeleee animal, I gathered that there is,
ie,e law in eome countries making it illegal to eXperiment on living ehimeis '
without an anaesthetiea Yoe, indeed,ee you rightly eeyain theee undeveloped
,hountriee,humehe teaching is probably eeeier ih mehy egpectgythgm being iaeed i
; up continually with the outcome from the reoe.te-be firet,ih the highly devel~_
,oped countries of the world, 1 think commercial intereete in oohheetiou with ~
{laboratory experimentation ie very deplorable. I em sure you and your helpers” ,
ere doing.everything poeeibleto'mitigate animal suffering in the lab. I hate ”
the idea of thewholeithihg,myeelf,but 1h actual eXperienoe I have been eaved
thet form of additional anxiety. You would be emueed if you Could see the * .
Sheep kept et-ourghoSpitel lab here, They are the_fatest9mgst cared for animale“
in Tanganyika. They get green graee to graze on,wheh all other euimele have
little knowledge of what such grass looks like: I heve kept a very'oloee
watch on the hoepitel_leb. nothing happens theregexcept the meetihoffeueive’
injections on White mice,guinea pige,end the-sheep: end-often good homes are
wanted for the surpIUS.‘ ‘ ‘ ', ‘ '..‘ ',~ ‘ . “

 




4‘

'1991999 thing I would I1k9 your 999199 9b0u1,19 19 9 0999 91109 with 9999919
SS1? HISPSIDLI 9? Q9119 9 9umber of sup90919r9 0V999999 099119u19r1y
19 “9991 9991 19 999999 19mh99n 91 1h919911tu1 11191 909111.99 9 999 9099
“hI 9 99m99r9919 19h1109 01999999 .upnort9r 10 pay? I had'not 991 to th9
“IISS ”931”? 19199191 19 19199 of 9999919919 w 99 91199 199 9991.099 10 get a
“1911 9949 09 199 991u91 991k m but 11 1919919199 p99p19 919h 10 3019,01
909199 11 “0919 99'9 9919 19 hu11d199 up 9099 fuhd91 An01h.91191199 which
I 9999 19 9199 9nd 999011199 which 9h0uIa 99 9111 99 9009 as p0991hle,  19
19‘9097991109 9119 199 101m91199101 99 A9119 01y Board 01 9099 kind, I 19 991
1199 99919199 19 1h9 991919.01 9 hiﬁhly 90991109199 909911191199 - I h999‘
999 99099h of 1919 9 91 91 thing 911h the R S I C A. - hut it will 0919909
99999V 19 9999 9 hOdv 919099 9199 10 make the 119111111 9 preperly 0099111
9199 099991 11109 91111991911y when 1.99.99 919 09119ct9d and disbursed, A919
91 Ity,1 AthI 99 11011“ the 9100119 1 9019, but I Shall 99 91 helpfuI 991191
9991 99991999 Wh10h 999 91199 as 1199 909 9 09. ' I 990 19 mind 10 form an
9991 91 pﬂv1ﬂnwy 10991 9999099d 9f 91199 1991 numwn1t 91999 and 99 99 supp“
011919 01 1h19 199991991 9011119 Afr 199, 991 the 9b919u9 p90019 whom I 90919
1119 99 much 9 h011d 9r9 911 099199991911h the 919991109 of Ch19f AUBdlKIFA.
Wh 1 90 you 1919 01 199 1d99? Th9 99 999 190 A9 99 people 19 Canada , 1119
19mh9rt 0f T090910 9h0m vou wrnhthv k909 ~11I139 J11119990n 19 AQHtreal
19 “199 Ierry in England, 999 0:1 009199,I 99uld 99p991911y like y0u 19 be In
199 99091 I 90919 like 9 999ful 999,19 America 9 d0 you 9999 of 099? I haa
1999 1:91 1h91 99 A990911h 90919 99 th9 999, 0919 9 199, I 1h19k he 19'9 9r119e
1911 9 9919 99991 h999d‘9991h9r 9019 fr0m h1m,9f19r 911 I did 19 991p him
19 919 9999999 whﬁm 99 999 99991 'If 99 109999 9 board of directors, I
90919 99 199 19999 99 S1999199/19 91991190199 th9 991991 901k.19 Africa,
991 1h9 01991 919991919 90uI61 99 90 helpful with 9911991999-h91ping-10 get
3199191910. In 199 999911991I haV9 9‘999 the Stahd9rd Bank h919, 91199
919111 1999 991h0111J 101 19911199991 01 99y fund91h91 91991 he in the
9999991 01 199 199111u1;9 « m1101119 99V1h199 9910199999 h19p9n 10 me,{]9119
:h999 9911) “999191 1h9 101991109 of 9 9099111919d body 191 1h9 or9991991~ _
1091 1099 +119 99 y0ur fr99k 919199 ”1 help 19 this matter, I shall
“9-99019u91lv 91919191 uﬂﬁIkITﬁ 09919 h9rh 99 b9 the Lh9wrm99 0f .suChI'a
1371111311,1 09 if h919109 9990099p19d then 99m9 01h9r us 9ful 999909. wLater,
mhnw I 999 99k9 1h9 h991 90919019 9119 01h99 Afr1099 919199111 may be
1 99991919 19 909991 “099 91h91 1111111 1999919 to the board a hut to’begin
'911h 99 90979 have 5 01 6 m9mhers 09 1h9 90999 I1 9111 9999 a 101 of
99919990999991, hut 19919 will be 9 terr1f10 amount of mailing to do,1n
.-“9v 9999 99 1199 109” 0919 I 9Xp991 1'11139V9 10 9 91 some 999r919119l help
‘11999 9199 9199 my 99019 1199 9131 he takan up 19 I ttnr~9r111991

N QW,8bOut1tLh‘6 Wild Life f1 lm? It is indeed a del1ghtful film 1n
6991099 I6 9 9. 199119” 99991 4 /am 9199; and 91 199 999 of 199 1119 19919-
‘919 9099 19191991199 99019 01 Amnr1h 9 91911019 10 the T9919999y117.911109 I
”991 9‘ ﬂnr0uvh1v 99109191 th9m99I9991 I 9 Sure 11 Whuld 1"‘91 9 m0ney f0r
199 199111919,1h9099h 9h10h much 9111 99 d0 99 for the p10199110n and 919999
1991199 01 AfricAS 911Id I119, 99999119 99 my 19?991("h99 I h9d the an1dpnt‘
NI 19199d £6101»909199;1h9 film at 091y 1b99¢ r”911991 19999 ~9h09‘1,0f 009“”
. 991 199 91ud991 10199 11, 9nd 9919 0919 100 h9nnv 10 t3199 19 the 00119 Ct-
-"109 11199 each 11991. 10991 19 r9qu119d 191 our 19110991 Park s 10 h91p on
6199 m““01991109 91 wild 1119 and 99191911J, 11 9131 99 999 1199 on the
prohramm9 01 th9 199111919 throu9h humane 909991199. 1 I should think if
vou h 9d 199 film and Could 9119999 some 9h099,9199 in 9 private way,th9
9099y.would he found The film.19119 the r99919t09y 0f the 199099 Seren~
g9119hd Aany91a,T9hvanv11Park31 I 99 sure 1h91;pr09p901199 Visitors
10 L.A. 90u19 10V9 10 999 199 film. .Aow, I h9V9 jua mt 199991v9d a letter
sufrem J0y09 Lamb9rt 19.T010910 who 99919 to have 199 1:11m, but 901 until
after Christmaa 99 she 191h may moving to 9 999 009911 y hOus 9,9nd 91v1hh ‘
her 9 101 01 9 9119 mark I 90999199 wh9+1or v09 90u1919k9-1399 film 909 -
II 999 9999 11 by 911 frPIﬂht 19 90091 9;/m 9911y «‘59 9191 you can 91th it,

J.

 




1;
.23

SSS Send 11 on 10 JSySS SS111S 0“”U SW 19 SSSIS 1SSS SSSS'11 SS 1S SSSS
Q1hQr 1110 s pSS‘SSEV S11SSS SSS SSS11SS11uS1SSS 1S1SSS1S5 11 1S WSS I SSSS
1SS 111m would SS SSSrSS1S Sd m 11 S1“ SSSS SSSS by S SSSSS 111S SSSSSY,

1SSQS1S111101 1SS Snaq~1111 1S11SSSV Sﬁrkwa The S031 IS 11091'1u1 1SS
SiwwS1m 11 1:1Q PSTSS11S1 SS SSSS'S SSpy 1S1 £63 SS'SSﬂtg SSSS1S1‘3S“1.1
SSSld make SSSS 13S Sf 11, - 1.1SSSS1 1w110SS1SS9 SSS 'SSS SSS SS‘SQS‘AQl
.ag ? parting $1111 SlSSg with S SrSgSS1mvawpiSS SSS S1ﬂ91 Smﬂly 101 SSS
MSSilS Unit» - 3
What S 1S11Srl I-SSSS ySu S111 SSSS 11SS 1S 119SS1 71 111, “SS:

is SO much I want 10 SS? ESS S111 I'ms USS 1S ,'1S ”Sa if 0S11 1 SS“ SQWSWS
Sde likS VOUahﬁrﬁg 1S SiSSuSS SlShH 111h S71SSSS 13 SS SSSS 1S Sjﬁﬂ1mﬂﬁ
WOTK,QU19 TS 11nd time 10 S111S SSSSSS S1 1SS SSSSSSST“ 13 331‘3333 39 9199
S S11 01 S SSSSS Qt 1SQ SSSSS1 » SSS1S SSSSSSSS S 'uSi 11 Jwe R 9 3

01% S1 the VSSF? daeo n1 SS1S SUSS,“9 imp SSS 3119111111 U
SSS1S1S qu11xnd 9001111S 1S S71 11S SW ,SS WS“71;Q SSSSVSF?
momgfhlﬂg dQQQ 1Q Fﬂt SS with SSSS l SSSS my 1S0 SAS'S
SSSiSr m this SSS SSSdSS 1SS1SSSS iS SS1 1811 S“”33

‘Iﬂ'COﬂﬁS S110S S11S puS11SS1Sg m 1 SSSSSS SSS,1<1 ”Suv 11? SSS

111 1h£1 US$111M1 S1S1111 111m? Sfﬂﬂa 1?33“1SS'1 S1W11113~ (11 n1}? :vw1 11 S 1M ‘

I have SSS? StSSiSS S1111SS'SSSS1 1111111 SS11SSSS S SS1 111 SS

SS SSrk a Su1SrSiSSry 1S1SS 1S1 SS11SISS m 1SS1 S1QS¥ :1 rSSu111 11.

an SS1ldrSS SS they STS S11 SS1 1S 111 1SS SSSS 111“ SS "“1111

Sry 91 S 11111S 1111SSS'SSy with S ﬁﬂé S~1 S L10 3
'11111S Pr1SSSSS; SFSSSS11S CTGSS; The 310“ 111S3 1'11m1a rww 317% > 3
SSS1S like 1S 11nd S publiSSSr, 1 SSSS SSS SSS SSSS1SS 13114 1, S SSSSSS
101 the past SSS 1%?”3 m SSSSS SS" 11SS 1S 1S 1Q11S1S~ 1;;M‘Si ' SS.11S~
have I SSSS W11S.S.SSP,S1AOZ SSS? SSSIS SS 1111? SvaSS “1 S1“

. r:-

1lluS 11111Sn m 1SS1 1S11:11311 1 S1 SS 11 11411Su11 1“

. 01S SS SSTSST 1S1n1 ¢SSQ :1?ymb01_fﬁf 1SS.”SS SS
ISStitute. SSVS you.SSy 111,11 :5: 11 SiSS SSSS1S1S£ SSSWSSS
W11S animals S St erSS1Q S411 1; 1111». 1SS1 SSSIS SS SSSS1§"

1 Lastly, SeliSVS 11 Sr SSS m R 81,1“ 1» Su1011 SSVS SS1
'deSll 1S1311 Smyher 1S1S SS 116 SS1S 1;S SS Sy 1S» "SVStSS11aS11 11.
1 ‘ erS 1haS 11111 S1, SSSS1SS 1SS .1SS‘S1rS11S1 1S61 1 g111 SS.1SSS ‘
Ujve to them rSSSr61Sg what Sﬁnu1d 1, SSSS Sy ﬁgﬂgPSan.1Swu WSS'St’ SSS”
GVQr I SppSSS1 1S 1SS honour vvwv SUSS, Sut Snly SiSS I SSS SSSS SSSSS 11“ m
I ‘Nﬂuld SSVS SSKSS f0? 11 BSEVSTS pfﬂwx 1S11SS m SSSS SS 1 S111 SS SSS 1S
plaster,and 81111 SS1 1S0 Sell TSCGVGTGQ erS SSS Sffecthf 1SS SSSidSS11

I will lSok a wrecki‘
I shall be eagerlyhawaiting vS ISply 110m ySS1 SS1 1

_find time to answer S11 my queries, Sly SSSpSS1 thanrw :1S1 811
SSS 1S1SrS at ‘

S 1101112 31111.1 S11 .1,
1

:1! 01}? 19:11 51.141111 85‘13

111SSSSS S 00?? Sf 1SS 1S11Sr US1S:1 LUNd111‘S SSSS
some Sut11S1 SSSS1-1SS famine SSS 11SS1 m SSS ycur SSSS1119
again1 for your practical SSlpg’ ' ' '

“1SSSTS1V Yankw,

1111121

"WM

 




HUMANE EDUCATION INST 37‘?“
OF ”RICA.

2473
P. flag}; Box wgpjam

. ‘ , Dore, ......... g/Wm,
V ’7 SW
, Received from M ..... * (— . » a

........................................................... “urn-w. Inc-loilcolruou ul unavo-u-acccaonu-o-I-o-uuanccn-cu

W‘fh Thanks ,
< reg; A'or
A EDUCATIGN INSTITUT

9%” W 111mm

 




 

 

 

N, ,1
‘3" 5:5 Aka—1.
(run/Lg '

DAILY NATION

Thursday. Nov‘ember 9, ISI

 

 

 

sunvma HIIM‘NS‘VEE” ”Em

THE 41 million readers of
Britain's DAILY MIRROR
have responded nobly'to a
spirited editorial. appeal in
aid of the "Water for Wild
Animals Fund." This fund
has now been swelled to the
tune of over £20,000.

No doubt the readers of
the DAILY MIRROR would
be a little startled" if they
were told that the unfor-
tunate «beasts they sought
to rescue from the ravages

 




 

: we OPENS
RELIEF
FUND

LONDON, Tuesday
N East African famine
relief appeal fund was
launched in Britain today.
Organised by the Oxford
Committee for Famine
Relief it is designed to raise
money for relief work in
Kenya and Tanganyika
and among refugees from
Ruanda-Urundi.

s/

"2’

Committee spokes-
man Tristram Betts said
at least £1 million was
needed for famine relief in
Kenya and Tanganyika.
Already his organisation
had made available £3,000
to the Salvation Army for
relief work in Kenya.

1‘

l a ,2

in addition, said Mr.
Betts, another £50,000 was
needed by the organisation
for short-term relief for
refugees ﬂowing in fmm
Ruanda.

n
I

Announcement of the
special EA fund followed
newspaper publicity in the
Uni-ted Kingdom for the
plight of Kenya and Tanga-
nyika f a m in e victims,
which itself brought quick
response from the British
nubhc.

*Within hours of the
appearance of a “Sunday
Times” front-page story
headlined “Thousands
Facing Death by Famine
in Kenya," people were
contacting Kenya, Govern-
ment representatives in
London asking if they
could help.

.431-

HEM

'9

A spokesman at Kenya
House, London, said that
as soon as his ofﬁce opened
the telephone began ring-
ing. Callers wanted to
know how they could help.

He added: “We have
cabled to Nairobi asking
the famine relief organisers
if they will agree to our
receiving donations on
their behalf in London.”

A Kenya Government
spokesman in London said:
“There has been a big
response from the British
public. for the Wildlife
Fund and» I am sure there
will be an even bigger
eﬁort to save human life.”

 

 

 

"Vb" *

 




 

 

 

 

 

\EunaPEA N8 r
TlTEllllORISED 1

or mug
in wars

From NATION Reporter
ALBERTVILLE, Monday

, IN this dying city to—

night I watched'the
. last of the‘white Euro-
)b pearls jeered aboard
their planes.

Central Government '
Q troops are closing in on this
\ last main city held.- by
i Katanga’s Moise Tshombe
\vin the north of his country.

Some of the evacuees had
been beaten and terrorised by
wild Baluba tribes-men.

Tonight Tshombe has lost the
northern half of his country. A
UN pilot told me that a column
of Central Government troops
led by three machine-gun
mounted jeeps has driven to
within 30 miles of Albe-rtville,
this once peaceful little city
haven midway on the world’s
largest lake.

Tonight it is a death city.

Violent, crazy Balubas roam
the streets, hunting the last
European residents. I met two
they had tound.

Italian construction engineer
Bruno Braoddo, aged 54, had a
face that had been mashed.

He told me: “I was trying to
get to my job at Bandura power

  

[6"

 

station outside Alhertville when -

I ran into central Government"
troops. You can see what they
did to me.”

A swiss expert at the station
was also beaten, .

He could barely open one eye
as he told me: “l have kept on
With my Job as long as possible.

be killed by these Balubas."

First

tion of Aviation Organisation

where, on the verandah.

his friend. ,

the lake three days ago.

TURN TO PAGE 2.

 

 

  
   
 

Now I must get out of here or

I Was the ﬁrst. reporter to
drive through the ghost town
tonight, My driver was. a red-
headed Canadian controlling the
city’s airport communications
for the International Conven-

 

 

He took me to his home
a
Golden Cocker Spaniel was
lying beside the doll of the
little mistress whom he would ‘
never see again. The dog was ‘
being fed by the Canadian and

The girl was evacuated by
boat by White Fathers to
Usumbura on the other side of

Tonight Albertville is a town
that has come to .a complete
standstill. Without E'urOpeans
there is no business. The shops
are shuttered and err‘ipty‘ of

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

‘ DEATH “or A dry

FROM PAGE 1

goods. All ‘Katanga police have

withdrawn.

The Baluba have taken over
in open revolt against Tshombe.

Over every city building the

yellow ﬂag ”of the Central
Government is ﬂuttering.

ELISABETHVILLE
—— Rumours of the arrival of

Congolese N a t i o n a 1 Army 1
soldiers at the airport here
caused a brief panic this after-
noon. .

Anxious parents dashed to
schools to fetch their children
and Katanga troops were
alerted.

Later it was ofﬁcially ex-
plained, however, that United
Nations removal of 80 Balubas
from the refugee camp to the
airport had caused the dis-
turbance.

It was said that the Balubas ‘
were Wearing uniforms of the \
Congolese National Army, which
they were going to rejoin. .

 

l

 

 




October. 18, 1961

Dear Mrs. Slater,

It is good to see your new organisation's name at the top of your letter.
I have made an effort to interest a small foundation Which gave no funds for
the printing of humane educational material in helping you in this work but
have not yet had a response. Foundations, even small ones, move slowly, but
I hope I may have a favorable answer before long.

The questions that you ask about Mr. Kermit are the ones I started asking
myself, and regretfully, answering in the negative. I telephoned the man at
the Committee for an Effective Congress who had sent him to see he in the first
place, and complained, to him about the numerous unnecessary phone calls we
were; vetting, his attempteto press the for publicity, etc. He adudtted that
Mr. H "personal involvement“ or something like that .. in other words, his
desireto be doing something .. perhaps outstripped his interest in the cause
itself. At this point I had already allowed myself to beoome committed to
having Mr. Mesowit and someone from his proposed organisation come to tea with
Shaikh Abedi. It seems he looked up Shaikh Ahedi the day before and spent
quite some time with him in the company of a Negro member of one of the City
Commissions whose name I have now forgotten since, although I was expecting
him to come to tea at Mr. Pierowit'a invitation; he never came nor called to
say he couldn’t. Hobody at the tea party could stand Mr. Horowit's behavior
which was much worse than it had ever been before. He told one lady in a
loud voice that Sheik‘h Abedi was a barbarian (I didn't hear this, but die told
me afterwauddgsmost indignantly) and he kept giving us all long speeches in
one of which he suggested that Shaikh Abedi was playing us off against the
Communists who eight wish to contribute to the SPCA! He didn't use the word
”Communist" but that was the idea, ”turning to the East" or something similarly
ominous was, I think, his phrase. This made me vehy cross both because it was
so awfully rude and because it was so hopelessly silly". all Shaikh Abedi had
said was that she thought the SPCA could raise some of‘thei': oeded funds from
others. This was the climax of Mr. herowit's performance about which you must
have heard enough by now. He had never shown thieside of his personality till
the tea party, before, but during his mild-mannered period, I had come to the
conclusion that he is incapable of effective work. He more than once said he
thought he would send you some. money, and this encouraged me in the beginning
to try to help him by telling him what to read and uhomto see. I wish I had
had more sense. . - ,

I'm sorry that the arushe Conference did nothing definite. People are
"study” rather than do their duty. However, it at least
do attention to the situation. I Was glad to have a letter
. Robert T. Hatt, Director of the Cranbrook Institute of
Science, in which he said, “While attending theﬁrueha conference of the
International Union for the Promotion of Nature, I became acquainted with
C, of Fundikura on. Whom the Schueitzer medal was so wisely placed. He is
i d a great leader and Has much the strongest and most encouraging African
voice in this whole conference." Perhaps when the Uhuru celebrations are
over, he will take some firm actio. ‘

Under separate cover I'm sending you two copies of our annual report
with the Tanganyika SPCA prize painting on the cover. Shall I send one to
Chief Fundikira and tell him of Dr. Hatt's praise?

Best wishes,

Sincerely,

 




HUMANE EDUCATION mama-c:
OF AFRICA.

P.O.Box 2473,
Dar es Salaam,
Tanganyika,E.A.
5th October 1961.

~Dear Mrs Stevens,

I've been delaying writing to you,until I had seen
Shiekh Abedi on his return. He came to the last meeting€my last!) of
the R.S.P.C.A., but I did nt get much chance to discuss things at length -
he was quite shocked to find that I was relinquishing control of the said
society! this was the first real intimation which he had. However,in
the few minutes conversation we had,(I‘ll be having a long talk with him
shortly, when he gets over the accumulated jobs awaiting his attention)
I gathered that something had happened in N.Y. in connection with Mr Mer-
owit, and Shaikh Amri had taken to him at all: However, he was very de-
lighted to have met you, and was quite full of it. It was very kind of
you to have received him so graciously.

Now, for Mr Merowiti H~e has been here, and we had him
out to the house for some talks,and meals,etc. I am a bit baffled - I a
do not get his intentions at all. I was very cautious, and comitted mysel
to nothing, except emphasising my determination as regards the exterminat—
ion of poaching destruction in Tanganyika. I gave him a lot of information
which he did'nt know, and the sort of information which did not have any
place in the recent conference at Arusha. He assured me,that he would
return to the States with a plan of action,to help definitely towards the
necessary action being taken to eradicate poaching. I wonder whether he .
will? What actual standing has he? Can he get things done,to help the {
undeveIOped African countries? or is it all talk? I just can't be cer- f
tain.

I did not include ygu in the talks with Mr M.,thought%
it better not to get you involved. But he definitely did'nt seem to like ;
Shaikh Abedil so that dislike seemed to be mutual, which I think is a pity;
As I mentioned before,Sheikh Abedi is a somewhat rabid Moslem, and re— *
quires very careful handling, but he is a good fellow,and I get on with
him extremely well. He and Fundikira are very great buddies: Merowit

was having a lot of talks with Chief Fundikira, and I have gained the
impression that Mr M. has been a little toolcomplicated”for the folk

here, or should I say,evasive? However, if I can get any assistance
through Mr M. in all my new projects,1'll be very thankful. I expect

you will have a report about the Arusha conference? As I had expected,
little was actually accomplished as regards a plan for the immediate ;
blitz on poachers, but it seems that some schemeswhave emerged which all}
may have bearing on this disturbing problem. Toﬂmind it is not a pro- ‘
blem at all, if the necessary action could be taken now - long-range {
scientific planning is commendable, but until poaching is completely er-\
adicated,there will be little benefit from long—range planning — there‘l],
be no animals left to protect: I sent some telegrams to the confer—
ence,urging immediate and drastic action to exterminate poaching — these

I understand,were read out, and filed: A few days ago,bh1ef bundikire
told me,that the action I urge, could be carried out,if Govtzﬁﬁh £ZObgq

ad
MW?

 




uuuuuuuuu

To open cur here --)>

Well, they intend spending more than half a million on Uhuru celebrations!
I, and a lot'of“others,sthink that some of that money could well be spent
on relieving famine conditions, and the protection of wild life:

At last, I am free of the R.S.P.C.A. entanglement! and feel very happy
in being ablewto put all my mind on the wider projects which interest me so
much. I am'nbtﬂworried about the R.S.P.C.A. - the Africans whom I have

trained will be able to carry on the work with the help of the many thou—
sands of members. London has sent a man out here — a most"professional type
of inspector" ~ not what I had wished, but I expect he will do his job in
the usual way,although he has no knowledge of the country, the people,nor
the language, and I think he will learn through the Africans how the Soc-
iety has been built up on"kindness and personal"contact over the years.By
another year, it is quite possible that Govt., will like to have all such
organisations run by the Africans alone. I'm glad I concentrated always on
training Africans for the work, and when Africans are doing this sort of
job, Govt., will see that money will be forthcoming. The humane work es~
tablished in Tanganyika over the past 20 years,is held in very high esteem
by Govt. I am now setting about preliminary investigations in con~
nection with establishing a Sanctuary Gardens for young species of Wild J“if
near Dar es Salaam - this,is much needed. Such a scheme will have value in
many ways,i.e. conserving species of wild life, educational value,tourist
value, and of course an asset to Dar es Salaam - the nearest Game ﬁeserve
being some 170 miles away. This scheme will need backing, but I'm sure
means will be found to interest the right peeple who would like to help
establish such wild life protection. Will write again,if I get some

news from Aheikh Abedi. _ ‘ 31n0€r31y,£%;ﬂaﬁ€§§:£ié

(—-—-—— First fold. here—e———>

- . . i ., .. ,,. ,ﬁ , . .. . , i
' .‘ ‘ ' g. 0 ' 'vl "i.I'O¢~00.0--Ino...uocnoggganon......agu....p............ a. o Iluhoicuuoolurlnhitl
I n o.
1,- .na'; oil-IDD'OOIID‘DUAIO n v- r- a nu I'IlIIOQIIIOIOIOIOI'IO n u. o a {u - n -
ucsuu-n ouolnt xu. ‘ _‘
x. .

#*

wvzioogav

<4

EIHUSOTDNH
:33;

ANV NIVLNOC) .LON CYIHOHS HELLLEI'I HIV NV

C
a
:‘V

I" -

:ssoxppe pue amen s‘xapuog
'3
-3

 

 

N
z?

 

‘sueieig°3 s1

«— axau 9103 900393 ———) -

 

'"IIVW AHVNICIHO AH lNEIS HO

ﬁg X'IOX M9
“1159143 HQLI 4883 88

 

‘meeres so seq
"*ELve XOa°0'd ‘JelBIS

 

 

WIYZE‘QXIKUESUEl
i'w

‘0

 

 

 

“IEISHVHDHHS E18 THAA .LI SHOCI ll :11

 




110vemb3ax‘i 7 , 1961

31003 1.1:... , 1110103“,

.0000 00 0000 £03 ynur 101103 3333333 und0r Such 00p.
000f0rﬁmbl0 circumntancns. 1,00 50 sorry about yaur accident
0. 3<1 320.33 ”0.33.“ 03°33: 331.13 0000 be 133311..

_ . .3:- 3303311 00 glad t0 bcrrow the 011413.130 film after .1130 0110331103.
:13: 1.000113. 1'30 01:13.1 1100-331 0013111031 from “the 1333;133:3100 Merrill
' 1100333101103: 1:0 33:07:32: 1.0 my 101101“. 30001;. 0:011:30010 1310 film he:
133:3...“ 1:0 003133 in 110:3 1 .0313?

3.330113. .3 :33: 1.11.1 3300131 113130 in ﬂaw-1.010.103; 33011131 be a 0093;
0:1." 1133: 13131.33 .., 1:3: 3313 1311.021“ Fundﬁidra 1333010 103‘: you for contacting
3110131330 in. 01:13.33“ 3101.000 3103505 013001;. 12013300 010001.100, 11' 3‘00
000131. 3.01 333: 3. ' mulrin't 01350010130 this widely, of course,
1:301. .1? 1.1.1-331: :11; 0.1001 130 00133113.] ’00? 3:110:31" 0 10015 a few potential
310330333, 130 30 1:330:21 011 1:100 03? what. you are: hrg/‘ing t0 30003310111313
0:01 01’ 1.1.13: “1‘31” 3: 3000 "is you have 30:3 3300:: 0ff0rt's. . E'm glaéi ‘
0.103.... 11:31.. 10 0.00030; 0 public: 10013133300101 300,3200, anti 1 look
F033001100 1:003:30: 312.001. 1.1;. ' ‘ ' ' -

1'33;- 303113103‘: 1.0 333101 1:101:11 .3130 0.3 3:00 smudested.

13:03.33. 130331“. 1310130. for your 313003033. 10.1" .. hnvan't yet. succnedad
in 3:030:33“ 0 “0:30:13, 1 00010.30 a token 3.1.0 with hopes to follow it
with 003:3 3.1133130310101 @ntributﬁmsis. -

- ; "Sincerely.  .

 




 




~ W o- ’ m M W /. 591’
01/ng I7; agaiéqw "‘ " a“. and 9.3% V
A, (‘3 Met “xv" .e I

QL-Q W ﬂaw-r3]: 3m (4-15“

 

(— First fold here—9

 

To open cu: here '5’
Jﬂk‘x ‘
_ ffﬁngmouav
, cm 1211 HIV
OIAV HVd

«a 31>.

:SSBJPPE PUB GLUBU S‘JQPLIQS

WW

 

 

 

\.
J , p ‘
g Z (-n'g N (3}
(—— axaq p10} puooas ——--)

6‘1‘9‘Hj'

tic/3",?” 6‘

'"HVW AHVNICIEIO LEI lNE'IS 80
IHDHVHOHHS E18 THAA l1 SHOCI 1.1 :II fERII’I’SCD'ICMQEI

%‘RQI'OQIIODOIDI.ul‘rlouo-n... nu- "nun-Mn- out"
.

 

ANV NIVLNOC) lON CHUCHS HELLLEH HIV NV

 

 

 

 

 

\.

 

I‘ A ,
E: :2: I“ x
. “5 33 TANGANYIKA&

(

 




UHURU KWA VIUMBE VYOTE VYENYE UHAI -——
NI HAKI YAO.

NDEGE HUTAKA KUWA MARAFIKI WA BINADAMU, lakini wale
watu makatili wanaowakamata —- huwafanya wadhilike kwa maumivu, an huwaweka
katika matundu madogo ya [kik'atili HUWAHOFISHA NDEGE, na kuwafanya
wawaogope watu wa namna hiyo.

IANGALIE PICHA ILIYO
CHINI —— NDEGE WOTE NI
HURU NA WANA FURAHA -—
HAWAOGOPI — KWA NINI?
KWA SABABU BINADAMU NI
WEMA KWAO. NDEGE WA-
LIO KATIKA PICHA HUTUA
MIKONONI MWA WATU WA—
NAOWALISHA, NAO HUJIO—
NA SALAMA. SOTE TUJA-
RIBU KUWAFUGA NDEGE
WETU WAZURI NCHINI TAN-
GANYIKA KWA NJIA ILE
IF AAYO —— KWA HURUMA.

 

 

RAF IKI YENU, NA RAFIKI WA
NDEGE NA WANYAMA PIA,
ANAWALISHA NJIWA KATI—
KA NCHI NYINGINE ZA
NG’AMBO.

Ndege walizaliwa na mbawa ili
waruke———=Watu walizaliwa na miguu
ili watembee!

Viumbe vyote vyenye uhai ni
lazima viwe huru—ni HAKI yao.
SIMAMA, NA UFIKIRI, wakati
wowote unapotaka kumkamata nde-
ge—AHUTOWEZA KAMWE KU-
MCHUKULIA UHURU WAKE.

TUIFANYE SIKU KUBWA YA KUJITAWALA IWE YENYE FURAHA KWA
WIMBO WA NDEGE ELF U WALIOACHWA HURU —-— WIMBO WA UHURU
na SHUKRANI NA BARAKA KWA WOTE.

NA . . . YAGHARIKISHENI KWA MOTO MATUNDU HAYO -— FURAHINI
MKIYAONA YANAPOUNGUA, NA MUWE NA FURAHA
YA UHURU KWA WOTE. -

 

lmctolewa na Isobel Slater, Mwanzishaji wa R.S.P.C.A., Tanganylka. "ffs'jZXﬁ

 




ALAMA YA UHURU!

SHEREHEKEENI SIKU YA UHURU

kwa kuwapa

NDEGE WOTE UHURU WAO.

FUANGUA mlango wa Tundu - kiisha, Zisikilize nyimbo za Furaha
ya UHURU wakati Ndege warukapo katika anga!

WIMBO WA F URAHA —— WIMBO WA UHURU

 

Kwa kuwapa Ndegc Uhuru W210 Siku ya Kujitawala kwetu

Furahzu itakamilika.

 

KITENDO CHA HURUMA ni bora kuliko Dhahabu—
Huruma inaweza Kununua Furaha, na Furaha ni kitu Cha lazima kwa

Kuyafanya MAISHA YAWE YENYE KUFANA!

 

NDEGE ANAYERUKA - NI ALAMA YA
U H U R U !
UHURU KWA WOTE.

 

Isobel Slater anaomba U/‘Iuru UH‘C lam Hdcgc wore
kushehere/(‘ea Siku kubu‘a kH'a ({ji/I' ya Tanganyika. :j-_§:f,{3‘§7

 




Firsa Isabel Slatgr " ﬁe‘pﬁembm? E35 1953.

a)

1 J'— m 2 .x. n $2» a .2. . "aw: - ,A " , r a
~§atgd uQ hgaf tnau wax“; FﬁmdeLfﬂ S A $913 ta mg ﬁhw
LEQE’WJQIMBI‘ELL and ilﬂgﬁféﬁ 113.143 3.; M“ iv Mil a)? 12.33:" [EL 7333325,}‘3 E’i f 2.731;

BeSt wisnea,

 




 

WMK .. ’—

~‘<..V.—A——A«—N4 ~— . ~

,__..WW‘ \~— ‘3" '

P.O.Box 2473, Dar es Salaam,
, , Tanganyika,E.A.
"1 " 23rd August 1961.

Dear Mrs Stevens, .
I was awfully pleased to get your welcome letter a

few days ago, and delighted that you had had Shiekh Amri to tea. I hope
he returns to Dar with some"revised ideas",on how a City should be run!
at least as far as Pounds, and wandering animals,g 1 I'm sure his visit
to the States will have done a world of good. ,hank you so much for
the nice sentiments as regards the Tanganyika"ambassadors for animal
welfare" work - you can be sure,all such matters are impressed upon them

' as being of ﬁaramount importance& However, what you mention in connect-

ion with Mr erowit,disturbs me greatly, as I have been plugging away at
our Ministers to get a move on, and give me the necessary supporting let-
ters which Mr M.asked for. I see now, he is coming to the Conference

at Arusha.' He might have dropped me a line about this, as a number of
the ministers,including Fundikira, will be there. I did think of going,
but decided against it - firstly, I am terribly busy,and the man coming

to take over from me, will arrive about that time, and secondly,I don‘t
think I would agree with many items on the agenda. I really prefer to
publicise my own convictions regarding the best way to protect wild life.
I know one thing, and have said so, if the poachingland illegal hunting,
is not blitzed out of existence, I can't see any plan, scientifi- or ot e
wise,achieving completely satisfactory results. You cannot put a price

on any pasture,unless poisonous roots are eliminated first”- so it is with
any plans for the protection of Wild Life. So lon as the poaching goes
on, and licences are dished out to all an sundry so many people corr-
uptly use their licences),there can nevernmuch headway with any plan. I
have just sent in a red-hot letter to the press again,on this subject, an»
and thrashed it out againiwith the “inister for the ame section, the ot-
her day, and bluntly told him, that all the conferences in the world won't
save the game,unless his department takes a serious and realisic view of
the position. Animals are still dying in their thousands,unspeakable 1
deaths of torture, and little but talk goes on. It makes me boil, and g
I mean to keep the whole shocking business,right in front-of the public. ‘

I'm so glad like the picture of the bird flying out
of the cage. The posters are lovely - I only wish I had had the funds to
have them done in colour. I will be happy to send you some, and also a
copy of the recently out, annual report - my last for R.S.P.C.A.§ It
would be wonderful if you could help in some way as regards the new liter-
ature I shall get down to producing for Humane ducation a just as soon
as I am free of the R.S.P.C.A. It will be“a bit sticky for funds to
start the Humane Education Institute 6f Africa,with, but once I get time A
to settle down to it, I'm sure,I'll soon find some funds.’ I wish that '”
an Institution likes yours in America,could consider sponsoring the new
organisation for Africa - I'm sure a connection with America wouldﬁgo antv
awful long way in helping to establish anything to do with numane bducat-t,
ion in Africa. Everybody thinks of America in terms of advancement. Do you
think such a plan would be feasible? Not altogether fromnthe money aspect,
but as a sound supporting background. I cannot really get down to :
full plans yet, as I'm so terribly tied up with this Society's work, and

 




'be able to take care of all the Afri

until this man comes from ondon - some lnspector or other, and I can safely
hand over — then, I shall be free, and I hepe this will be by the end of .
Sept. I have completed this work for the Society in Tanganyika — it now only
required to be carried on. The Africa' Chief Assistant I have traiﬂed will
35: work, which is the most important.
The snag will be, whether Mohamed Musa will stay on after I go? ‘e is very
worried about the man coming, and if this person falls in estimation of the
Africans, then I can see Mohamed following me. I could do with him. anyway.

However, I will do my best to ensure that the R. S. P. C. A. goes on - not on th:
large scale on which I Y'have made it - so many projects were my own - but
so long thx as the Society continues to function in a normal way that will,
I'm sure satisfy London. I can always_take care of the Humane Education

~side.through the new organisation. London has positively refused to recog—

nise the size of the present organisation by not providing, or helping to
provide the necessary staff for such a big undertaking, that I feel my hand-
ing over, and a reduction of activities won t upset them much' But in these
times in Africa, there is no room for limited horizons. It must be all out,
or nothing. , I will send by 2nd cl. airmail, the printed material. I
have not much suitable for the new organisation,for the reason that all the
stuff I have been turning out,mentions R. S. P. C. A.. I must start on a new
line of approach just as soon as ever I can get the time. By the way,
our friend Abdallah Fundikira is likely to be the first African Governor—
General' I' m glad to have his support as regards the humane outlook on

things. With kind regards. Yours sincerely,
‘ P

(—— First fold here ---—)3

 

To open cut here —)

 

"n" :SSGJppC pUE omen S‘IQPUQS

I"
L,

 

'quaptselg
‘sueaoqg'o saw

 

 

41-— mq 9103 primes -—-—)

 

9N

 

‘TIVW AHVNICIHO 18 IN’EIS no
CIEIDHVHDHHS as THAA 11 $300 11 ~11 fannsmowa

 

 

‘Q‘xxox neg.
mw."as MQLI 1883 88
‘oqnqtisuI exegteg remtuv

 

ANV NIVINOC) lON CI'IHOHS HELLLHT HIV NV

 

 

gum W93

 

 

OVOSOH ‘1 IX-

 

 

 

 

 

 




Animal‘Welfara Institute
22 East 17th Street
New York 3, N.Y.

mama‘s—.1069

SepteMber S, 1961

Era. Egobal Slabgr
Dar es Salaam
Taﬂganyika, East Afriea

Daar Hrs. Slaﬁgr,

All ymur dalightful yesters arfived and, with year yemissiona we
will put wka‘ﬂhuru one with the ahiid releasing the bird fram the saga’
0n ﬁhe cavar Of our tenﬁh annual regart which is just abauﬁ t0 $0 to
ﬁne printar. “we woulé.uaﬁe umderneath that it is a parﬁ 0f the humane
edﬁcaﬁianal gregram,far which thia yagr's Schwaitzar Medal was awarﬂeﬁ
to yam anﬁ ﬂhief‘Fundikira. ‘Waa it the £1rs€ prize winner?

I think yam? idea of affili&timm af the Humana Education Enstitate
of Afriga with the Animal welfare Institute is a fine Que. 'Me wauld he
prouﬁ £0 ha assacieteﬂ with your wmrk and hapgy t0 give whaﬁvhelp %%.aan.
we might ha successful in raising substantia; funds, and we might not, but a
wa cartaimly'aan give mcral suppartn Yea knaw our policies frcm.reading
our Imfcrmatiea Reports. If yen $heu1d ever decida t0 embark on any pr0~
gram Which yam think is too different in spirit fram them, y0u{:0u1é laﬁ
u& know. i mention this in connectiam with the hard battle we ara fight~
ing t9 get legal proteciion far labaraﬂory animals. The QQpQSitian is
alwayg Sﬁaking far something $0 use which would aake u5 appear to be
antiwvivisectianist$ {which we aren?t} far ﬁheﬁatiﬁnal Society=for

Medical Rese&rch’s cherished image of ﬁhe kindly ﬂoater persecuted by
antimvivisectianists a by far their masﬁ pawerful weapon for keeping
the status qua with unregulated experimentatign and unlimited pain in~
fliction on animal&. Consequently, we are very cautious in making aura
that nothing ﬁg éo can be tWisﬁed by the Egﬁﬁ‘s propagandists t0 mism
rapresent mar poaition which is strictly antimcruelty'and not anti~
‘viviaectian. That said, I can only aﬁd Uhat judging from your literature
it wauld be a relief.t0 be warking for animal protectien in an undef~
develﬁpad'camntry rather than in Que which is so overdevelapeﬁ as ours is
with reﬁpect to animal experimantation. The effcrt to provide decent
control is very haré, but it must ba accemplished.

Regarding Arusha andlﬁr. Eerowit, I think it is fortunate that you
did not succeed in getting the letters he wanteﬁ from the Ministers, and
since you are not going to the conference, it wmuld not be difficultto
let the matter drop. I am quite crass with the man who asked me to $98
Mr. ﬁerowit and help him, and I hope he will not prove a trouble to you.

 




 

 

August 2L3 1961

Mrs. Slater
P.O. Box 2h73
‘ Dar es Salaam
Tanganyika
East Afrioe

 

Dear Mrs. Slater,

I wrote to Lady Gascoigne telling her of the needs in Tanganyika
for a mobile clinic and for funds for humane education. She has been
most generous and active in promoting the work of the Japan Animal
‘Welfare gooiety and also in work in North Afrioe (I forgot at the
moment which organization ehe works with there}. She started the
JAWS when her husband was enhaeeedor to Japan, and many truly appalling
conditions in laboratories and pounds in the big oitioe there have been
either corrected or at least ameliorated no a result of efforts begun
by hera I thought it just possible that one might give really generous
help to your work and so wrote to her to say that Shoikh Abedi would he
in London and could be reached through the ﬁritieh Council if she wished
to get in touch with him, {He told me how he could he reached). I
wasn't sure when I wrote her whether she would even be in Englanﬁ, but
I've just had a very nice letter from her one I hope she and Sheikh
Abedi may meet. One thing bothered me, though, and that is that ehe
said she was going to get in touch with John Hall of the RSFCA and
knowing that you have been unhappy about the situation with the parent
body thought I had better write and let you know this. lady Geeooigne
is very able, very humane, and charming too, so I em confident that
nothing but good can come from her interest. I suggeste that she
write to you, but I did not say anything about yoor problems with the
RSPGA as I know you have always asked me to treat this as confidential.

Enclosed is another copy of the Information Report that I ought
to have sent you long since but somehow overlooked.

All good wishes,

Yours,

 




am MAL WSW-ME WESTITUW
22 East 1?th Street
ﬁﬁw'YUrk 3"Ro Yo

{Mom 9. 1962

-Mrs. J. Slater

Bﬁgame Education .
Institute ef Africa ($45.1.Aa)
P. a. Box 2473 -

Dar Ea Salaam

Tanganyika,

EAST AFﬁiﬂA

Dear Mrs.‘ﬁlaéerz

ﬁany‘thank$ fa? ygur cheerful latter. I'm glad that you gat 969d
medical advica.

ﬁg had ﬁha hagrimgs on the %iil fer the urotaction 9f laboratory
animals Swpﬁambsr 28th and 29th. Thay went aff extrsmely well w a real
milestone 0f progre35. major Hung of U?Aﬁ flaw here to testify and made
a mast excellant prasentatian. we had a number of-piacas 0f testimcny
{ram humane madicai man and aciamtisﬁs, tea, which was‘not only effective
’1n itself bu? $9t 9f? the Qppﬂﬁitiﬁn by other scientists who testified
against thg legislaﬁian. .

I %m daiightgd ﬁhat yen are making pwogress with UNESﬁO. Sureiy,
they shaulé help Hﬁfﬁ. :n

a?

x am agxry that 3 have baen working so deﬁparately hard on the
laborataxy animalg legialation thai I have act haé a secend free for
anything 313$. Alas, no Christmas card has been éone, and i am afraid
it is tee late haw, far if they‘wera printed here it would take too
lcng to get them ta africa by surface mail and it wouid atherwiaa be
so eXpﬁﬁﬁiVQ as ta ﬁg nut sf the questien. I will try to do better
“EXt year.

Abnut the painting compatition, I would suggest you write t0 the
Lathan:Foundatien,,£atham Building, Qakland, California. They hava 33
international pestar competitian. E haven‘t heard muah about it
recently, but I ﬁhink it probably 18 still in existence, and they send
it around widely. I should think you scald tie in with them to a&*
vantage an this.

All gead wishes,
Yours,

 




C;%:;mumne Ggiémhzd%we enfimRQZQéE gy/ZJ%;%;mz

9;?ng ﬂﬂ’%a 2.47.2?
Z/- gm x 57152; @Z &’.4 daéam/
zﬂ/aﬂ/féﬂga/ 64%

26th September 62.

Dear Mrs Stevens,

A few lines on my return,to let you know I'm back,and
starting to cope with the work again. I came back sooner than anticipate:
since they would not operate on the eye at present. I was a little dis -
mayed to begin with, but have decided to abide by the best advice possibl-
It seems I have odd eyes: and to Operate now would result in double vis—
ion - what a prospect: I had some treatment,meantime, and will have to
go back to London in a few months time. It's all a nuisance, but there's
nothing,it seems,can be done for the time being. Cataracts are evidently
not so simple as some pe0ple would have one believe - both eyes have to
be taken into consideration. I have to wear special glasses now,all the
time. I'm going to try"willing" the eye to clear.

I'll write later when I get a bit more organised, but
from all accounts,things are continuing to go well. Nigeria wants a big
lot of material — Sir Abubakar wants all the schools to take up our work,
and is personally behind things.

The painting Competition too, seems to have caught on,
in many countries. This is all to the good. But we'll want a lot of prizes'
I should think: By the way, I forgot to mention it, you must have won—
dered about the reference in the notice announcing the competition,the
reference to winning entries being sent to America for exhibition - this
referred to the Massachusetts Humane Society,wanting entries from Africa
for dhsplay. Perhaps entries could be included in other school exhibit- ‘
ions in other parts of the U.S. - if they are good enough?

Just before I went away,I had a letter from Fairfield'
Osborn regretting he could not be a Sponsor of the Institute. You may have,
heard from him. I think,probably he is right,and did not feel quite up
to our wide field of work. There are not so very many pe0ple available
with the imbued sense of humanitarian dedication,such as our work promo-
tes. I must get busy in rounding up some new Patrons,etc., before I get
a new supply of letterheads printed.~

I made a trip to Paris,hurriedly, to see Unesco. I
can't see why they do not help us. I had fair success,and will now follow
it up, and press for assistance,especially as regards printing in various
languages. Nigeria wants material in three languages - quite a consider-

ationl A All for now,and do hOpe you are well,and not worryiné
toOmuch about the lab.problems. *
. Sincerely Yours,

WW

 




AMDMIWIMAM INSTITUTE
22 East 17th Streat
MMM YorK 3 , M.1.

August 1M,i1962'

MrM. IMMle MlatMr

.HMMMMM wMuMMtlan IthitMtM 0f Mfrica
1P. 0. Max 2M73

Mar MM MM1MMM

TangMnyikaﬁ EMMt AfMiMM

IMMM 11MM . M1M'tMrg

I'm.Mo Marry MM hMMr that you hava'vaMr.
$09 p1MMMM, MMMM MMMM 0f yMMrMle. It's good news thMbM
MMMMtMMM hMM MMMM fMMM.MrM. Rip1ey. FMrhapM, MM M1MM goMM
MM MMM M111 MMMM you further dQMMtiMnM.

MM are hmping for MMMMMMMM an thM M111 to
pMMMMMt labaratory MMLMMIM in MMM MMM t fMM MMMMM so MrM er3
”M8? MMMM th1513Md MiLM thM puutln MMMMMMMM of GM? manual '“
W””Mﬂ MM givM MM Zuerctﬂilﬁa MM AMMM‘MMMM.MMM to build ,
1M MMMMM MMMMMMMM Mar the Mnima1M¢ ThiM 18M big taMM MM it
1M M laaMszMr; MMin Mttion Mhich hMM MM MM MMM togethMr bv
MMMM. ‘MM MMMM MMrMM ”MMMMrfzg bays, MMMM 1, 13 and 15,
MM1MiMM MM fax Wh16h2*MMan vafgg ngth.1

1.MQMM M11 MMMM MM11 with thM‘MMrM and
MM. m 3 £313.11" MMMIMM a '

‘.1MMMM,

 




f (’0‘) 'o I r
%ma%e (fa/szléan fadﬂi’éwé 7/ Win

”7“?ng ‘Qgﬂggz 224/3.
%2 ea éméwm/
Linﬂﬁwxw 62%

ﬂ/- gm .' 5/525

jJQw; 4; '2...

/9 W ﬁt W 39 £5: L%/ 4.2-? /
.: 92v» fgadj. AVLK: W Z Q—www
’7 _ ’ 2 x % i ﬁx a ﬂu '3

fQW EV/ﬁ €147, Aﬁwﬁ 71 cmmﬁémaqh L +30 WA?
MEL/9C , ﬁrm, m/gﬁw AP A L (1.1; 5%
(>2; ﬂaw; 52. :Q/WLL am 6’ 2% q.»
W7 ‘0‘ 3 aw“ ." [wee A Ari/(MM f .
ﬂAM/ZZ “Any/v A) an “(Ad (,7 m“ /:- /;2Z»;..¢.W_{,

«Q
25:,“sz N /M> 11/ 6 /, emf/w .

74W f2? a» <3». W'yke/(f (gr/1:4)!
41V“ ﬂ ”AZ/Rag 1/ ﬂ 6—7ng QWJjQ a,

/

 




%AWW 534% am ﬂaw; a/WQ/Wém

p? 6‘?" f ‘90 Qﬂ W923; 342.5:

W951- gm _, 5/125 %2 :94 da dam,
QWW, WW 376W, WMM jwvmyﬂ 6.6M

%¥Q/BWWI- Q2

 | 3, T 372 gm”... .
MK I giaﬁp-WE i/g/J :M-owﬂ .( /(;0‘(\~0~0(

Léﬂ/g <3, > bM—W‘LXQ can”; "(LI EMS/(W m‘ (C _Q/g.h.-_Q_WW/Q)ur3—~ﬁ-~—OJL

1/} a,» x§WLc> ,6“: £qu ‘ pf Aggy“ 0166M

wme/bﬁi

ﬂ

a6» 'W' w v' a“ (”£673 {£61

”‘wa ' 6W1" (WW W65j1m‘WWM'L/t’ Ed

6 W 6W6 W

(Lug/06 A6;

6:: (:6 @652:— MW 69’”;

/ 6 W 690.”; 2 {ﬁx 63 (8:6 a» 236'
EM §ﬂv M3 6 ‘5 69 “WP-W3 636.49?“ 9 W«
69' M M - 1" (Echo/W3 . , -

 




fwiz/ We};
,3 372.4“ a"

HUMANE EDUCATION INSTITUTE OF AFRICA
( HEIA )

PAINT mo COMPET IT ION, 19g;

Open to all Schools

The Iﬁrector has pleasure in announcing that the ANNUAL PAINTING
COMPETITION, will be held during September, October and November, 1962.
All Entries should be forwarded to the Institute, to arrive not later than
the CLOSING DATE, 1st Tecember, 1962.

Entries will be accepted from Competitors not over 24 years of
age, and not under 10 years of age. Students from schools anywhere in

Africa are eligible to enter for the Competition.

Winning Entries after being judged in Tanganyika, and exhibited
in Dar es Salaam, will be sent to the United States of America to be

included in exhibitions early in 1963.

Prizes will be awarded in each section - Cash Prizes to winners

in the sterling areas, and suitable awards to winners in other countries.

 

R U L E S

Entries may be submitted in colour, i.e. Paints or Crayon, or

may be Black and White Drawings. They should however, be suitable

for reproduction.

Slag; Not less than 12" x 12", and notplarger than 16" x 12".

Good stiff paper to be used.

Name and Adress of Entrant, and age, to be clearly written on the

back of each entry. Pictures may be signed by the entrant.

Entries should be kept flat for mailing, or rolled round a stiff

cardboard centre piece.

All entries should be despatched to arrive not later then the

CLOSING DATE, SATURDAY lST DECEMBER, 1962, and clearly addressed

as follows: The Bdrector, Humane Education Institute of Africa,
P.O. Box 2473, Dar es Salaam, Tanganyika, E.A.

IMPORTANT: Mark "Painting Competition" on tOp left hand corner

of wrapping.

SECTIONS AND SUBJECTS

SECTION A. Any scene portraying KINDNESS to Human Beings, showing
Children, Adults, or both.

SECTION B. Any scene portraying KINDNESS to Animals. The Animals may
be of the Home, Field or Forest. ‘The human characters showing

acts of kindness to the Animals, may be adults or children.

P.T.O.

 




Three Prizes will be awarded in each section. Special
Prizes may be awarded at the discretion of the judges, to any out—

standing entries.

_ _ _ Competitors may submit entries in one, or both sections,
but ALL ENTRIES MUST BE ORIGINAL IDEAS, not reproduced from copy.

 

N.B. Prospective Competitors are advised to read the humane liter~

ature issued by the Institute.

THE COMPETITION IS OPEN TO SCHOOLS
ANYWHERE IN AFRICA.

 




MRI MAL REL FARE I NSTK TUTE
Emir. Wth Etrmt
Elie-w Yark 3,. Raw Yam}:

33313? :21) 5 1*? iii}:

RRRRR w R @333 R
«@245; \Wé’amg

iﬁg'ﬁ’é‘i gt ﬁ‘ ”1”“) E If?” a
«i z ‘ {32“. ‘15“ WW"

. .. .-— p. ‘ a :24; uremia?
r RR R R ‘3‘“? . 1:3 $7.33 QR
aﬁg’ RR RR"

RRE’IR “1?:

WE“ "

S

LCR‘WRKV p.
”x“ .11» R13“

6‘“ , R m .
it?) Egg-r3 EEK/17 '3 R31

. ‘ ‘ 'I ‘
ﬁfﬁ'gﬁﬁg b. 55' '1?“

E

" R ‘ ‘ .R-“a :- 1’- R";

Rafi ‘{,JE‘;,EC};3“’

‘3
an a"!
k '- g: u —
. J, 0 "\:: 1y} , .

 




5233;33939 (égééawé%we .3fiKMé%kﬂé €K/KJ%;%;Q¢

”€ng gyﬂ’.%3 247.32
ZZ- @193 .' 1575.29" 3/2413 $14 4aéam/
$3,339.33, KM

29th June l962
(TL-1» v.
3.919.119,

Just a note to 'g.“ . much for your? letter,long-
hand,received two days ago. You 971 I “.1 I ' enclosing 9 ontrihution;
fOI L “A“ elas,it was'nt in the .11» iouCht I had better Iet
you Kr OK.

I 1

So """ “I d you t3lKed Wltrl the TengenyiKa 1

at the ":. 3 oi couise, Chief lunuiKira is prohehly one of ..
if you 309 my me n3ng. I h3 ve been on the phone 31309 .oida; as

to catch hold of hi m, in erJeen I3he1tt 1159 of the bet onal A9 sembly,
but can I ,no I' ve 339 I I:een on Io his moretary again,out he hes‘nt
even pikhed up at his oH ice. I “a at to try and heve an official HEIA

eieeting "it” him before I :o sway, so thet he cen he respo sible for the
finenoial affairs, should anythiiC unforese 11 happen to me. not that,l
anticipate 9nything,hut I' m so allerC;.ic to flying th9t it Ia .Kes me quite
some tiKKa to recover from a flight. I must ily this time, for th 9 9Ke

of C1111.3”:he ,911d I we to Cet hecK 99 soon 99 p099ible to give my hus~
‘CCno support, 9I1ould he h9ve to maKe any sudden decisions in my 9.hs ence.

However,I won't be Ceinr to London until early AULUQt,abﬂ it is my in—
tention to worK up 99 much 99 possible oefore I leave ~ then I' m afraid
things will just have to lie over a hit until my return. 1y husbanl's
office will forwerd all mail to me,9nd if there is eoything very pressi§;
I can answer from London. It is reelly quite 9 we Iry N‘Vlnb to Co over;
seas at this time, but I guess,eyes are something not to be heCl oted, azt
elgﬂcosts.

.4. ~

Yes, indeed,it would be grand to get a little of the
money reis ed 9t the dinner! Still, I feel KEIA must show whet it really
means to do, before expecting lCrge 93 ms of money. I‘KI so glad you en~
joyed the dinrier. lrinc ePhilip is e IICys “retestiox 9ga1inst eiuelty to
animals, yet,why in the world does me indulte in blood sports? Prince
;ernh91d too. does a fine lot of Killing Ihen he comes to E. A.

Is 'nt it wonderful that so many plane loads of pets

were flown out from 399 nda - nuquhdi (new names for KuandamU rundi. The
C“itotionevidently did help. I' ve been worrying sicK about the poor
Algiersa 9nimals,and ’ren. There must be thousands left atandoned Oh, if
iﬁese was only some international law to ta 3K9 0919 of animals in such
tragic circumstances. I feel like going all out on a Ieace Crusade ~
whyt Inust so many humen beings 9-.nd enimals suffer throuOh the craze for
gain and power of politicians? It's all wrong,and no good can ever come
from it. These so called leaders devoid of the divine spirit, what can
they do, but brin{; trouole to mankind. I imeaine in the end, Kan will
himself, become unwanted— he will dise ppear uider the Ceight of his I
reaterial achievement. ThenK 393%,‘.ngenﬁinﬁﬁthe notesyﬁrom Dr Sch~ I
eitzer' 9 address -- they will be ’ . ‘ ' .& , 2% ._ . . 263.1 de for?
Humane Action Groups,out of the gﬁKFKers I’ ll send you Sure 5o ies, and '
will else distribute widely. ”Thank you for telling me Pbou Kr Kg?“

 




To open cut here—)p

Murray. I don‘t suppose he could be very active(so few are1),but he might
be useful in rousing contacts in Hwenda—Burundi,when they get a bit lethar
gic. I'll write to him when I get a spare minute. There's sure to be troub;
in those tribal states,anyway. About i“airfield Osborn? before I write to
him. Should I ask him to be a Patron,Sponsor,or a member of the Advisory
Board? I’m sure he could help as regards the Sanctuary for Wild Life,I'm
battling with here. Have a bunch of very odd people in Opposition,or rather
in competition « a delegation of 9 visited me at the house,the other day —
saying,"Mohamed had come to the Mountain,etc,etc.," There were Africans,
Arabs from the Persian Gulf,and Europeans,in the odd assortment,including
a member of the Game Dept., and I was given to understand that Govt., had
nothing to do with this other project,at all! really,one can't be sure of
anything these days in Tang., except one's own Faith. Going back to Hair~
field Osborn ~ Fundikira met him in N.Y.,and liked him. I find that some
peOple would like to be Patrons,and some Sponsors! I think it in order to
have both. I know one very good organisation in the U.K. who has both,and
very useful it is. Dr Schweitzer said,Sponsor, whilst Sir Abubakar Taeafa,
said,Patron,and so on. I have'nt heaniyet from my EthiOpian friends re .
Prince...(forgotten for the moment), but I fully expect to. I am also going
to try and enlist the interest of the nife,a charming person, of the Presid-
ent of the Ivory Coast. Heia has contacts there already. I've just receive.

per sea mail,I think, the copy of "UN conference adepts Humane “esolution”
excellent, Certainly the atrocities connected with sea life are grim. In a
small way,years ago,I got our harbour authorities to make illegal the dumping
of oil from ships. It used to be horrible for the birds. Now,ships must do
all jobs in this direction,far out at sea. HOpe the UN will get busy on ot—r
her aspects of animal protection arbund the world — there's so much thatpggﬁ;
could be done. il’ill write againnseerme—a Yours,in some haste, §,~i?:.1i~é.?i.$1

 

wavuoousv
HELLIEI’I HIV
‘ NOIAV ave

 

V‘Jlliv :IO alnHISN!
33
T8 UIIU‘J

+~Vn

(——9Ja p10} puooa

"Ollvanoa JNVNHH :ssaxppe put: omen s‘xepuas

JV

‘wvvws 53 am
‘mz x03 'O'd
no I '1' r1 Qum—

'"IIVW A‘d'VNICIHO A8 lNEIS ‘cIO
em W+LL

)HVHOHHS as TIIAA i1 seen .u :11 f summons
jNV vamoo .LON omens HEIIIEI’I my NV

0

'V '3 ‘VXMNVDNVI

(11'; 'H)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

‘ainiiiSUI eiBiIae

 

 

 




June 21, 1962

-.

,xéellnstyuﬁﬁar
Bamaviiiag gamma

ﬁgﬂtﬁgmﬂna

. .;Jﬁrs. Esabal Slater,‘ﬁwanﬁav 0i tha ﬁumgue-Educatiqn _
Ingtiﬁmﬁa cf éfrica anﬁ'rgsidant mﬂ fanganyika for mahw’yaars,
ham sent ﬁg as ﬁﬁa @Jﬁlﬂﬁad manugeript,.“£ittle Barges of
_£ambu”, fer pagsiblﬁ pabliﬁaﬁiaﬂ in ﬁhia eauntry. At her
' w%qu@$%'I'am Saﬁdiag iﬁ'ta yam haragith far Conaiﬁexgtion,
ﬁggaﬁhwrvwiﬁﬁ,illmgtratiena;- M@ haga vary mucﬁ that you will
ﬁamidw'ie pﬁblish"it.. ' ', ' . 7

Thank m in aclvmw far cw courtémyc

Sinaarely.ycurs,

, Eatella ﬁraﬁerl
vExecmtiva Sacratary

 




2222:2221. Imam 2222211312
22 2222 172222 312222
2222: 2:22:22 3.22.22. -

Jam 4‘, 1.162 '1 '

III-a. Is<12<21 212—222

Humane <ducati<n Institute 91 Afri<<

‘ PC 0: BOX 2473 ‘ -
<22 <23 321.1%, 12222222221122 E 21.. I

123mg: 112's. Elater,

. 12121222: 222222; 2222 y<22<r 1<2I22<2< <1 1213? mm: 221.212 III Ih< 1222<<22<<222<2
encluwma 21221 the <2<<2<1 2222222 212222221. <<<2< 222222: 2221222222: 222h<2<< <<~2<<II<22 '
1:22 2222122313 22222 :22 high 12': his 2222222 21:22:21. Y<<< <22 2.222221% <I<2<2<j<
22222212212122.2112, and. I <22 <22 <12<12<<12<<2<L 22221: I<2<21< 221112112< <<2<2<2<<2<<12122
<21“ 112222 1322122232: <21" 111124221“ 12022. ’ ‘ ‘ '

. '1 222212: 1222222129 122112222 <2 <12: <1 3122112212 C12231< 2.22222 ward fer 1112.22.
11" ym: 11222222 22222! 3pm“? <1 1<1<a<22 1221.. 22222 1222:2222, 2:212:11 222,11 <12: my 1.2223112.
11:22: 5092'": 219 2:22: 22<2A<1 1.1:, and 22: 2211 m2: 2222211; 161122 12:: 22221221222121 12:22:12
:22: 1.22 T2222g<nydka? ' " ' ‘ ”

1 22'2“ 2:20“ 1'. 2:1: 33:11:22: {2'2221'122th 2:11:21 2720112122 :t"2<'1";<2 :2 222222121:
221‘ +yrym<<r<22121m3 errors 12': 12132.2. 1:221:22“: 222229213123 22:1" 1:12.22 22:11;<<:<1:.1.<2r<< I ‘ 7
31223211221322 2 2122:: 1.22222112312 2312;512:1225 "ELM <22. 4211222311327 133:22'2 2211‘ 8:22:12 GIIQI'SI2 2:12.221
3:2 tha’yr 111.1613 12222222 12222222 2222:2222 camfm'ﬁy <2<<<~12<<<<1 than 1:12 112222222212. '
‘ 112222221225; 11222:: 2139222313: I'rmch waxing womb: 122221 about 1211:2113.
12:21:22.2?ng 102222121- 1 <12<2<21<1 2212211922 11; warmth: “1‘1": 1:211
11222122541413 32-22 11222:” mad 11211 121222 22"3121121‘32212 <1” 0.1111251 22231 12'2":
'maI pwmecﬂy 21:21:22122'22

'1‘"n°1<22. Iiaumi.<2<211222212<rg<r 2222: ij:21.n<<1 Smataz 11222221: .12": 22122222202121}
8.: 301311 122:2 1:122: <2:<<2'1:2<.1:I<2<2 <21” 12212222131037 2.122.222: <3 and: 121212 Is :2 112222
22:12.12 22222:.- 22:2:22222231229 1m: 12222231122272 but 2:192:11; 11202: 212.221.1292: <22 22:21:.
“they will 122 12911 1222110312 Congress 119159133118. ”151122122 122 <1<<2221y <<<<22<
ofwerk’cedoy ' .~ _

 




mm
9
" 3/3

Es

.i
In

A

w “

. .B-ﬂang

‘ :0
w-

i;
s

5:

satisfied with the illustrations I have to

\.
4.
ﬂ

"here. 38

I

'LLr-L. W WLMMW #2,".

},accept

%ma¢zﬂ g/Mﬂé'aﬁ ﬁéi’éﬂé a V%&ﬁ

fa”? 6’? f .270 9.357 ﬁg. 347.5:
.554.£Zm..42£af igasagmraagmanm

gimofaa .- ﬂ/a/ 1.777226% %%g L: “ﬂy‘aﬂ/yaéw 695%
21st May 1962.

Dear Mrs Stevens,

' Just a short note,to keep you up-to-date. Reluctantly,Mr
Adlai Stevenson felt unable to accept the invitation to become a Patron, but
he wrote a charming letter of encouragement,and appears to be genuinely inter—
ested in what we are trying to do,in Africa. d'ust after getting his letter,I
met up with a most outstanding personality in the U.N. - George Ivan Smith,and
he was so impressed with the scope of the work Heia is doing,that he accepted
my invitation to be a Patron — as he said, ”with pride'. He is friendly with
Adlai Stevenson, so maybe,there will be fine support from Mr Smith. He knows
so much about troublesome countries in Africa,and I feel sure his help will be
wonderful. I attach a press cutting for your interest. I am hoping to get
a Prince of Ethiopia to join the Patrons - he has expressed great interest.

- I have now circulated some 35 countries,and have had re~
sponse from several, but expect to hear from many of the others. An adequate
stock of printed material — to follow up the first outlay - is going to be
something of a small headache! so much is required,and all so variad,covering
humanitarian subjects to suit the various countries and their pecularities.
I‘m grinding out ideas,all the time. The personal letters written,now seem to
be described as"the philos0phy expounded," therein! HOpe it all takes effect.
I have the deep conviction that we've started something that will be far-
reaching. Attached a few new items for schools.

But,oh, what a mess politics seem to be making. I don't
know why, but Tanganyika appears_to be taking an awful lot to do,with other
countries'politics ~ I feel,and so do many others,that there should be enough
to do harem without getting involved with other peeples' affairs. I am making
special efforts to arouse interest in the Hhodesias in Humane Education,and
also in the Congo and Ruanda-Urundi. Discussing the matter with Ivan Smith,.
he agrees that a Mobile eterinary Unit,or rather Units,would be very effectiv:
and Medical Units also. Mobile services are wanted desperately in these Afri-
can countries. I feel a lot of splendid help from American aid, rather over-
looks some things,which to me, seem a vital necessity - knowing so well, the
need for veterinary and medical services in the remote places.

I am so distressed about dear Matilda'ﬁilliamson — again,
she has had to cancel her trip out here,and is back to hospital in hontreal.
She was so well when she returned from her three months in Barbados. By the
way, she met Mrs Blackader(SPCA,Montreal) in Bardados — they had'nt met before

Mrs Lambert seems to be doing awfully well with the film
in Canada,and it is being televised. we should get quite a bit of money from
that. I have heard nothing further from the Winley Foundation - do hope
they will remember Heia. I sent a packet of literature,some time ago. If only

peeple realised how much real good Heia can do in undeveloped Africa,18m
sure they would gladly help support the project.

All for now, but hOpe to hear from you soon. I do hOpe
your Institute's endeavours re. laboratories,are making some headway. It must
be a big worry for you fighting these mercenaries.

‘ . , . Since ely, ’
P.S. could you perhaps,when you get time,des1gn a
descriptive Christmas card for Heia? I'm not at all ”_ﬂﬂ___,_

 




Compassion (for all Defenceless Creatures.

 

HUMANE EDUCATION INSTITUTE
‘ OF AFRICA
(H. E LA.)
P. O. Box 2473, Dar—es-Salaam
Tanganyika, East Africa.

MEMERBHIP CARD.

Name WM 6 SW“

 

 

 

 

T Subscrf glon¥waﬂwﬂ W
Dam ml

 




  
 

 

     
 

 

  

 

 

 

 
  
 
 

   
   
   
  
 
 
  
 
  
   
  
   
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  

._ -wﬁ

 

 
 
 
    
 
  
  

TT TM.-. . JI—WW

”t

 

  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  

       
 
    
  

  

i

Salaam, is
58‘9ka I

Tin
II I

ted

.)

)I
,_

I knowledge

stories to ﬁll .
‘ would make better reading}

brutality.
, ﬁrst hand. He was one of the
men kidnapped by Katangese

U.S. Consulate
‘t Ville.

EORGE UIVAN SMITH,
Australian-born Regi-

onal Representative of the

United Nations Technical
éAssistanceI Board
headquarters in Dar es
not a. trouble-
Far from it.

 

to animals,

But, because of his work,
this diplomat and personal
friend and adviser to the late
Dag Hammarskioeld knows

more about world trouble

spots and crises than most
people.

He talk with full

of international
tensions from suez to the

can

I Teongo.

He knows enough “inside”
a book that

than a ﬁctional best-seller.

KIDNAPPED

He is also acquainted with
The experience is

troops last year while atten-
ding a reception given by the
in Elizabeth-

Mr. Smith was eventually
rescued from a hack into

T which he had been ﬂung by

-.T commandos”

T the

Tshombe’s “para-
—- qut not be-
fore he had been beaten by

resident

.: riﬂe butts and had several

ribs cnacked.

Mr. Smith, went to the
Congo on several “specIal
missions” last war. He was

5‘ asked bv U Thant to remain
in chat. ge of US operations
in Katanga after the resigna-
. tion of Dr. O’ Brien.

“People do not understand
admittedly complicated

- sequence of events in Elisa-
bethville, Mr. Smith said.

At no stage has the United
Nations ever launched an at-
tack on Katanga.

o.A.s. TERROR

0. AS. , fﬁcers who came"
from Almeria and. , earlier,
French lndo-Ghlna, to Work
as rhereemaries for

The
Tsheiﬁ’beié 5hands and began
a series of attacks against the
U. N. during the cease-ﬁre
and, with usual 0..AS tac-
tics, they kidnapped and mur-

 

"

with __

He is quietly spoken, devo—
_ especially
dogs, and a’familv man. '

   
     

Tshombe. I
oogicl‘the” b3" 00ft of T' IT

dered while shouting to the‘

world that the U. N. was com.
mitting atrocities.”

Mr.
Summit conference in. Gene-
va in 1955 and the subseduent
Foreign Ministers’ Confer-
ence. At both he was res-

ponsible for vetting the ore-.

dentials of all Press corres-
pondents.

Smith attended the

 

Wee/r' is Personality f

Bl r.— I r S II

 

There were 2,000 accredit-h
ed correspondents from 60
countries so it was a job which
called for diplomacy and tact.

He became personal assis-
tant and politIcal adviser to
Mr. Hammarskjoeld during

the Suez crisis and went with T.
him twice round the world on“

visits to 15 countries.
During these goodviiill mis~

-sions- he met President Nas~

ser, King Hussein, Mr. Ben
Gurion, Mr. Nehru and other
heads of State.-

BACK To U.N.

He was in Beirut during
the 1958 Lebanese crisis and
with Mr. Hammarskjoeld
during the trouble over Jor-
dan which, could have star-
te‘d a war in the .Middle East.

At the end of 1958 Mr..

Hammarskjoeld brought him
back to New York where, as
Director of External Rela-
tions, he was responsible for--
United Nations information
centres
world.
Mr.
been with Mr. Hammarskjoeld f
on his last "fatal- ﬂight.

the U.N.
missed. At the time he was
on vacation in Arizona.

Mr. Smith ' ﬁrst

quest of Mr. Nverere, to dis-

cus with the Gavernments of=
tEast Africa the establishment

for the

economic developmen

HE’S HAPPY

 

5 "3“

He was deeply

Independence and by... the-
need for co- operation in tech. .
nical ﬁelds on a
scale.

He discussedthe possibility
of coming to East Africa on
a longterm- basis: with Mr”.
Hamma‘rskioeld‘ who agreed
in principle.
trouble began.

His wish to return to Tan-

ganyika. has now been grant-

‘4;

 

as director of Special

:Urundi

in. 38 parts of the ‘T

Smith was to have
It

was onIlv the second trip with j;-
leader ‘he- had ever ,-

came to :T '.
Tanganyika in 1960. at the r‘e-r

impressed ,, T _'
by the spirit in which then,
people were moving towards

world-wide ‘ T

Then the Congo "

    

:,.

ed, and he is pleasedto be'
{here with his. wife, Marv.

In
America he has three grown-
up daughters, and a. son..
The United Nations regio-
nal representative speaks
several languages. ‘

He has. in the past. been-

a director of radio. both in

Australia and with the 8.8.0...
and a producer of ﬁlms on

international

. affairs for 1'.
Arthur Rank.

‘l-_ ,.

7 TT ‘.\._ T _ TTT'T‘TT _

.1“; “

— “ "" -. ~ . z .. 7" ._~ _'
A.‘ AT 1. ‘AI A‘ ‘1':!-.I’_- .I.

 
 

 
  
   
   
     
   
   
      
     
     
    
   
   
   
   
  
  
      

Mr.” Smith will also Serve T

Faund
programmes for the area
covered bv his ofﬁce which

. includes —- Tanganyika, Ugan-

da, Kenva, Zanzibar, Ruanda-

and the Rhodesian
Federation.

 

 

 

 




 

 

mawmwmmwwmwmwmwzammwmmwwmmwzmmw

 

AVANCEMENT DE L’EDUCATION HUMANITAIRE

vous AUSSI vous
COMPRENDREZ

 

 

Wlll.
UNDERSTAND

A HUMANE EDUCATION SERIES

<5”
§
§
§
§
§
§
§
§
§
8
§
§
§
§
§
§
§
§
§
§
§
§
§
§
§
§
§
§_
§
§
§
§
§
§
§
§
§
§
§
§
§

 

 

MWD%WIW5%W5%WJW3WIWD@WI%W5W)W%%W>@%@Wifa%%

 

A

 

 

 




 

Une des Séries sur L’Education Humaine.

 

“ VOUS AUSSI VOUS COMPRENDREZ ”

Il ne fut jamaz's un Roi comme Solomon
depuis le debut du monde.

Pourtant Solomon parlait a un papillon
comme on parlerait d’homme a homme.

11 y a trés longtemps, i1 vivait un trés grand roi, 1e Roi Solomon 1e sage qu
était capable de comprendre et de parler la langue des animaux qui e’tait cachée
a tous les autres hommes. Solomon pouvait parler aux oiseaux, aux abeilles,
aux poissons et aux fourmis, aux lions et aux gazelles, aux éle’phants et aux
serpents et tous les animaux 1e comprenaient et l’aimaient et son peuple l’aimait
aussr

Le croyez-vous? Est ce vraiment possible? Oh oui, c’est absolument vrai.
Beaucoup de grands hommes le peuvent et, en effet, vous pouvez le faire aussi!
Vous pourriez parler aux animaux et vous pouvez apprendre a comprendre le
merveilleux langage de la Nature qui est vraiment le plus inte’ressant qui éxiste.
Mais comment faire cela? Comment pouvons nous apprendre a comprendre
nos congreres les autres creatures? La réponse est facile: Regardez, écoutez,
pensez!

Observez les animaux avec affection et bienveilleance dans votre coeur.
Ecoutez votre voix interieure sans crainte.

Pensez tranquillement et tout d’un coup vous comprendrez tous les animaux.
Vous étes habile et intelligent, vous étes ardent et desireux d’apprendre et
bientot vous recevrez 1e privilege de comprendre les enseignement de la nature
et ceux notre Grand Createur. Cela vous rendra heureux et ﬁer.

C’est comme Ahmoud exactement! Ahmoud a une chevre, seulement une
seule. Sa femme l’avait attache a un arbre par une corde aﬁn qu’elie ne s’égare
pas, elle l’avait attachée par les jambes. Bientot 1a chevre ne fut pas bien dutout;
elle commenca a perdre du poids; son poile qui était blanc devint d’un gris
sale et elle donnait a peine de lait pour le bébé de Ahmoud. Ahmoud ne savait‘

pas ce qui se passait et avait bien peur de perdre sa seule chevre. C’etait bien
trlste! Quelle misere! Pas de chance!

}'

Comme l’etat de lachevre empirait, Ahmoud se souvint de nos enseigne-
ments et essaya de comprendre sa chevre. ll s’assist, la regarda pensivement,
lui caressa trendrement le cou pendant quelques temps et lui demanda: “Q’est
ce qu’il y a ma bonne Vieille ﬁlle? Dis-moi qu’est ce qu’il y a?” ct bientét
i1 entendit la chevre gémir avec une toute petite voix: “Ahmoud regarde moi.
Je suis si miserable et mon état empire chaque jour. Tout me fait mal, et mes
jambes me font mal, je suis toute rigide. Que sentirais-tu d’étre attache tout le
temps a un arbre? Par pitie’ detaches moi, je connais une plante tres spe'ciale,
une bonne me’decine qui me gue’rirait bientot. Je t’en prie, detaches moi!
Je ne me sauverai pas!”

”J




VJ

La femme de Ahmoud commensa une discussion quand il détacha la chevre;
il savait ce qui faisait, il avait compris. Lentement il suivit sa chévre, la surveil-
lant tout le temps; et en effet il y avait un arbrisseau de menthe avec des ﬂeurs
arangées dessus et tres soigneusement la chevre brouta seulement plus jeunes
pousses. Etait-ce cela la fameuse medecine? Cela continua ainsi pendant
trois jours. . . Bien que sa femme grogna parce qui’il n’y avait plus de lait
dutout, Ahmoud fut spe’cialement bon pour sa chevre, il lui caraissait le poil
fre’quemment et murmurait a son oreille: “Gueris bien Vite, tu dois étre guerie
bientét. J ustement pour le prouver a sa femme. La chevre comprit.

Le Sme. jour la chevre détendit ses jambes, sauta joyeusement, elle était
vraiment gue’rie, elle était bien de nouveau; elle ne s’était pas sauvée et ne fut
plus jamais attachée. Bientot il y eut plus en plus de lait, et bientot aussi elle
eut 3 petits chevraux et ﬁnalement Ahmoud fut 1e proprietaire de beaucoup de
chevres bien portantes. Tout 1e Villege admira Ahmoud, comme un homme
trés habile et tout le monde demanda son avis. Ahmoud a appris par sa chevre,
par la nature, et il veilla‘ a ce que des arbrisseaux de menthe soient plantes autour
de la maison. Il devint un homme riche.

Commencez done des a présent, essayez cet instent meme.
REGARDEZ! ECOUTEZ! PENSEZ!

 

“ YOU TOO, WILL UNDERSTAND ”

“There was never a King like Solomon
Not since the world began

Yet Solomon talked to a butterﬂy

AS a man would talk to a man.”

A long time ago, there lived a very g1eat king, the wise King Solomon
who was able to understand and to talk the language of animals which was
hidden from all other man. Solomon could talk to Birds and Bees, to Fish
and Ants, to Lions and Gazelles, to Elephants and Snakes, and all animals
understood and loved him well. And so did his people.

Do you believe all this ? Is it really possible?

Oh yes, it is perfectly true. Many great people can do it and in fact, you can
do it too! You really could talk to animals and you can learn to understand
the wonderful language of Nature which is the most interesting that really
exists.

But how to do it? How can we learn to understand, our fellow creatures?
The answer is simple. Look, listen, and think!

Observe the animals with affection and Good Will in your heart.
Listen to your inner voice without fear.

Think quietly and you will suddenly understand all animals.

 




You are clever and intelligent, you are keen and willing to learn and
very soon you will be privileged to understand the teachings of Nature, of our
Great Creator. It will make you happy and proud.

Just like Ahmoud. Ahmoud had a goat, only one. His wife had tied it with
a stringby its leg to a tree, so that it should not stray. Soon the goat was not at
all well; it lost ﬂesh, the previously white coat turned a dirty grey, and it gave
hardly any milk for Ahmoud’s baby. Ahmoud did not know what was the
matter and was very much afraid to lose his only goat. It was very sad, such a
misery, ~—- bad luck.

As it went from bad to worse, he remembered our teachings and tried to
understand his goat. He sat down, looked at it thoughtfully, tenderly stroked
its neck for a while and asked: “What’s the matter with you, old girl? Tell me,
what is wrong with you?” And soon he heard the goat moaning with a tiny
voice:—

“Just look at me, I am so miserable, getting worse every day. Everything
pains and my leg hurts, I am all stiff. How would you feel being tied to a tree

all the time? Please, let me loose. I know a very special plant, a good medicine
which would make me well, soon. Please let me loose, I won’t run away.”

Ahmoud’s wife started an argument when he untied the goat, he knew
what he was doing, he had understood. Slowly he followed his goat, watching
it all the time. And sure enough, there was a Mint shrub with orange blooms on
it, and very carefully the goat picked just the youngest leaves. Was this the
famous medicine?

So it went on for three days: although his wife grumbled as there was no
milk at all Ahmoud was specially kind to his goat, frequently stroking its coat
and whispering in its ear, “Get well quickly, you must get well soon,” just to
prove it to his wife. The goat understood.

On the 5th morning, the goat stretched its legs, jumped cheerfully about
it was really cured, it was well again! It had not run away and it was never tied-up
any more. Soon there was more and more milk—and soon, too, there were 3
little kids, and eventually Ahmoud owned a great many healthy goats. The
whole village admired Ahmoud as a very clever man and everybody asked his
advice.

Ahmoud had learned from the goat, from Nature! and he saw to it that
Mint shrubs were planted around his house. He became a rich man.

So start now——try this very moment.

LOOK! LISTEN! THINK!

L_.___

Printed by Tanganyika Standard Ltd.

 




 

 

 

mmwwwwwmmwwmmwmwwmwmmmwzwzmmmwz

 

 

PSYCHOLOGIE ENFANTINE

 

Les Animaux Favorit

Peuyent Etre de Bon
.Instituteurs

 

 

)WS%%%%WDW5%%%@W§%W

 

 

 

 

 

 

mammmmcamwmmmmmmmmmwmmwwmmmwww

 

A HUMANE EDUCATION SERIES . AVANCEMENT DE L’EDUCATION HUMANITAIRE

 

 

 




 

Avancement de l’Education Humanitaire

 

PSYCHOLOGIE ENFANTINE

LES? ANIMAUX FAVORITS. PEUVENT ETRE DE BONS
INSTITUTEURS

La loyauté, 1a maitrise de soi, et la prévenance ne peuvent étre formées dans de
jeunes enfants en leur en parlant seulement; de méme que le sens de la responsa-
bilité. ne peut étre compris par eux, a moins qu’on de donne aux enfants l’occasion
de l’assumer.

Peut-il y avoir un meilleur moyen d’atteindre ce re’sultat que de donner a l’enfant
un aminal favorit bien a lui, on a elle? “Le favorit peu étre un chien, un chat, uni
singe, un oiseau, un ane meme ou tout autre animal. L’enfant comprendra bientdt que
l’animal dont i1 s’est charge depend. de lui pour l’aﬁ‘ection pour sa nourriture, pour
1’eau dont i1 s’abreuve, et pour l’exercise dont i] a besoin.

L’enfant apprendra a étre bon et prévenant et ainsi ce sera son “animal favorit”
qui lui “enseignera le sens de la bonté.” Ainsi l’enfant apprendra de cette facon a
montrer de la bonté et des égards aux autres enfants. '

L’enfant aussi chérchera a faire obeit son “favorit” de meme que lui est la

discipline a la maison. L’enfant arrivera a comprendre que la discipline si juste est
‘ ausm bonne.

‘ A

L’enfant apprendra aussi a etre désintéressé et généreux. Il comprendra qu’il
faut qu’il laisse a son favorit toute liberté pour jouer avec d’autres animaux de son
espéce e~t qu’il ne doit pas I’accapaaer sans cesse, et cela aidera l’enfant a ne pas
étre égoiste a la maison.

L’enfant viendra a comprendre que le bonheur et le bienétre de son favorit
dependent des soins qui lui sont donnes et l’enfant comprendra que l’animal ne peut
parler comme 1e font les enfants pour demande ce dont il a besoin. Ce sera donc un

devoir tres sérieux de s’assurer que le “favorit”a tout ce dont il a besoin pour demeurer ‘

bien portant et heureux. L’enfant comprendra que l’animal doit avoir de la nourri-

ture et de l’eau a boire chaque jour, étre examiné contre les tiques et d’autres parasites

journellement, étre bien brossé et étre tenu proprement et avoir beaucoup d’exercise
et avoir, bient entendu, un bon endroit propre pour se reposer et pour dormir. Tout
ceci aidera l’enfant a accepte les responsabilités.

Il est si important que les enfants apprennent, surtout dans les pays qui luttent
pour se de’velopper, a co-opérer, a contribuer a de’velopper les e’gards pour autrui,

a répondre a la colére et aux déboires de la Vie par une calme maitrise de soi et aux
échécs avec courage.

Bréf, d’apprendre dans la jeunesse 1a satisfaction de la tache accomplie qu’elle
soit facile ou diﬂicile, la satisfaction de la responsabilité de prendre soin de
quelque chose, comme d’une béte favorite par exemple, tout cela prépare é lavie
d’une manie’re admirable et a ce que cette Vie tient en “reserve pour l’avenir.

ISSUEDI‘BY HUMANE EDUCATION INSTITUTE OF AFRICA,
P.O. BOX 2473, DAR ES SALAAM, TANGANYIKA, FHA.

 

 

 

7W" .




, 5“) vi",
; *‘

it»; r‘u‘:
.“g " A _ .- . "awardalﬁ‘rlniriﬁ‘ﬁJeyiyh _._., T, 53”,, . , '_ , E H ‘ '
.j ' ('9 r. ,

Promotion of Humane Education
__,~,_.~M~MMM

CHILD PSYCHOLOGY

 

ANIMAL PETS CAN BE GOOD TEACHERS

 

—.___

Loyalty, self-discipline and considerationcannot be formed in young children,
by merely talking about it, nor can the meaning of responsibility be understood,
unless the children are called upon to assume it.‘What better way to achieve this,
but to let a child have a young animal pet of his, or her own. The pet can bea dog,
cat, monkey, a bird, even a donkey, or other animal. The child will soon come to
understand that the animal in his care, has become dependent on him, for love and
affection, for food and drinking water, and for exercise. "

The child will learn to be kind and considerate, thus, the pet is “teaching the
the child the meaning of kindness”. In this way, the child will, also learn to show
kindness and consideration to other children.

The child too, will learn to be unselﬁsh: He will come to understand. that he must

let his pet have freedom to play around with other animals of his kind, and not claim
his attention all the time. This, then, will help to make the child unselﬁsh in the home.

The child will come to learn that the happiness and well-being of his pet depends
on the care given to it, and the child will understand that the animal cannot talk as
children do, and ask for things, therefore, it will be a serious duty to ensure that the
pet has everything it needs to keep healthy and happy. The child will understand that
every animal must, daily, have food, fresh drinking water, inspection for ticks and
other parasites, be brushed and kept clean, have plenty of exercise, and of course,

a nice, clean place to rest and sleep. All this, will help the child to accept responsibi—

lity.

It is so important that children especially in countries struggling towards develop-
ment be taught to co-operate, to contribute, to develop consideration for others,
to meet anger and frustration with self-control, and failure with courage. Brieﬂy,
to learn when young, the satisfaction of carrying through a task, easy or diﬂicult,
to have responsibility for the care of something, such as an animal pet—makes a
wonderful. preparation for life, and all that it will hold for the future.

 

 

 

 




 

gwmmmwwwmwwmmwmwmwwmwwmmmwmww

 

“Reﬂechissez Et Rendez

§
§
§
§
§
§
§
§
§
§
§
§
§
§
§
§
§
§
Heureux” é
~ §
§
§
§
§
§
§
§
§
§
§
§
§
§
§
§
§
§
§
§

 

 

wwwmmwwwmmmmwzmmwmmwmwmmmwmmmmmmmmmmmwwamm

 

 

 

9)

 

A HUMANE EDUCATION SERIES . AVANCEMENT DE L’EDUCATION HUMANITAIRE

 




 

Une des Series sur L’éducation Humane.
‘ 9
“REFLECHISSEZ ET RENDEZ HEUREUX’
Il faisait tres chaud, tout etait sec, Si sec. Emile se promenait dans son champs
de pommes de terre et se tourmentait au sujet de sa re’colte. Si les pluies ne tombaient
pas bientot, toutes les pommes de terre seraient déséchées. La Vie n’etait pas facile

il y avait trop d’aﬂclictions Aphatique et remachant son mauvais sort, il trottinait le
long du sentier poussiereux.

Tout a coup il entendit des voix fortes, des enfants criant et huant; qu’est ce
qu’ils avaient dOnc encore ces mioches? Emile se pressa, et quand il arriva a l”—
immense arbre de mangues, i1 Vit que les enfants jetaient des pierres dans l’arbre.
Pourquoi done? Pourquoi tout ce bruit? Et'puis il en Vit la cause. 11 y avait un
petit chat blanc s’accrochant désespérement aux frailes branches exte’rieures de
l’arbre, tremblant de peur, terriﬁé a en mourrir, cherchant a~éViter les pierres coupan-
tes. Une idée lui traversa la pensée comme un éclair: ce chat était bien plus mise-
rable que luig-il aVait besoin 'de secours et Vite et il p-ouvait le lui'en apporter. Ce chat

était une creature de Dieu tout comme lui. Le chat aussi avait 1e droit de Vivre et -

d’étre heureux.

Les yeux des enfants devinrent tOut grands et leur bouches s’ouvrir d’intérét

pendant qu’Emile leur expliquait cela. Bien sﬁr que c’était vrai, ils n’y avaient pas!

pensé. Enﬁn l’ennui de la longue journée de chaleur était rompu et a present qu’ils

avaient compris, chaque gargOn voulait aider, ils voulaient tous grimper sur l’arbre '

et sauver le petit chat. Emile leur dit de s’en aller tous, sauf un seul, et de rester
tranquil, un seul des garcons seulement était nécessaire aﬁn de tacher de sauver le
chat et le metrre en sureté. ‘

Naturellement, il falu un peu de temps pour que le chat reprit conﬁance, mais
bientot i1 se sentit plus heureux, se lecha les pattes et inspecta sa nouvelle demeure.
Il décida d’attraper toutes les souries et tous les rats et d’apporter un peu de joie
et de gaieté dans la amaison de son maitre.

Emile se sentait ﬁer, il leva les yeux vers le ciel.. .enﬁn il y avait des nuajes
de pluie tout gris! Dieu avait entendu ses priéres; il plut toute la nuit et ses récoltes
furent bénies et sauvées.

Emile de’cida d’appeler son petit chat “‘Bahati” qui veut dire “Bonne chance”.

 

ISSUED BY HUMANE EDUCATION INSTITUTE OF AFRICA
P.O. Box 2473, DAR ES SALAAM

TANGANYIKA, EAST AFRICA

 

 

 

1M“!




Hui

 

Humane Education Series.

“THINK, AND BRING HAPPINESS”

It was a very hot day. Everything was so dry, so very dry. Emil walked through
his potato ﬁeld and worried about his crops. If the rains would not fall soon, all the
potatoes would be dried out. Life was not easy, there were too many sorrows. Listless
and brooding on his bad luck, he trotted along the dusty path.

Suddenly, there were loud voices, children shouting and jeering. What was the
matter again with these brats? Emil hurried along and when he came to the huge
Mango Tree, he saw that the children were throwing stones at the tree. What on
earth for? Why all that noise? And then he saw the cause. There was a small white
cat desperately holding on to the weak outer branches, trembling with fear, scared
to death, evading the cruel smashing stones.

In a ﬂash, a thought crossed his mind. This cat was still much poorer than he
himself. It needed help quickly and he could give it. Also this small cat was a creature
of the Great God, just like he, himself. Also the cat had a right to live and to be happy.

/ The children’s eyes grew big, and mOuths opened wide with interest as Emil
explained this to them. Of course it was true, they had not thought about it. At last
the boredom of the hot day was broken, and now, once they understood, every boy
was keen to help, they all wanted to climb the tree and to rescue the little cat. Emil
told them all, except one, to go away and keep quietwonly one, was required to try
and bring the cat to safety.

It was not at all easy. The cat spat and scratched out of sheer terror, but eventu-
ally they got it. Emil took it home in his bag, offered it a little milk mixed with water,
and all the children watched happily.

Of course, it took a little time for the cat to regain its conﬁdence, but soon it felt.
happier, licked its paws and inspected the new home. It decided to catch all the mice
and rats that bothered its new master and to bring a little joy and fun to his master’s
home. --

Emil felt proud. He squared his shoulders, lifted up his head and felt great.
He had saved a life today! It was so easy to destroy, but to save a life, to preserve
it, that was something noble and Great. Nobody could make Life, only God could
create this so precious and wonderful spark of Life and Emil somehow new that the
Great Creator was pleased with him today.

Emil sighed, lifted up his eyes to the sky and. . . 10! There were grey rain clouds!

God had heard his prayers, it rained the whole night through and his crops were
saved and blessed. '

Emil decided to call his little white cat “Bahati” which means good luck.

 




AMIMAE.MELFAME INSTITUTE
22 East 17th Street
Mew Yerk 3,M.Y.

March 11. 1963

Mrs. Isobel Slater

Humane Education  InstItute ef Africa
P. 0. Bee 24?3

Dar es Salaam, Tanganyika, E. A.

Beer Mra. Slater,

I hepe yen are getting eIeng well wIIh yen: eperatioa which
you'll have had by the time this letter reachee you. I heee you have
a kind and helpful secretary, tee, to heIp yea carry an your eerres-
ponﬁence durﬁﬁg your reeevery. ‘

Thanks fer Mending the ecceunting, I wIsh I ceuld he were
helpful. The wenderfel Miss MIIIIamsen Is carrying the burden nebly.

Abeut affilieting with the AMI, while, as I told yeuvwe weuld
be hippy ta have HEIA affiliate with us If It will help MMIA, there
Isn't each that we can offer you, and If, as year letter Indicates, It
Is unpepular at the moment In Africa te be efIIlIeted with nenéefricen
organizations, then 1 eurely would held eff. Yen can alweye make e
fereel affiliation leter, eerhape at I were prepitieue mmeent. In the
meantime, we are glad te extend any help we seen Infermelly, as yen
know.

In answer te your questiens, I haven't heard from the Corene
Memens’ Organization In Lages. Miss Muller weeks at the»UN and bee
leng been Interestee In animal protectien. I sent her ene ef the MEIA
ChriSteas cards, and that’s why she sent van a centributien. You eey
be Inttrested In cexrespending with her when year eyes are better as
she doubmless Is-In contact with AfrICan delegates to the UM.

I think Mrs. Flemm Is e very fine eerscm. I gently re-
gretted a reference In the Kindnese Club beak which seemed to put her
positively In the enti~viviaectIenIst camp, and I wrete he: abeut It
not leng age but haven't yet had a reply.

Take a geed rest while you can, fax these eye eeeratiees are
a gweat strain.

With kindest regards and~best wishes for e epeer recevery.

sincerely,

 




LIA-DJISORY.BOARD... ‘ ‘ g

‘ , cniiig’F'A. s';”r'uNmkm - gran-min? ' ‘

' “ Mesa. LAMBERTL (CAN/app).

a!» '....,'f‘ii,

. . ‘ - a . .. , T J ,h , . I, .
‘ 1 -~ / ta ‘ y -‘ u: - 4 en!- .~»~ ‘
; *- - . _, ., Kill ~ ;: .
' _. ‘. .. - n H ‘a R.‘ -. f. . ‘3. .5
,. ., , 5,; /

1.
r

. _ -.) -; ‘ ' ,i a . " “**‘ £ ' ... , , . - » -‘ 2 I .v '~ ~ ‘
f _ E . _ . ”mange .,, ﬂaw/{cage 9. ﬁdlélfa/a 5e» u ~ ;. arm a > ’- A
./../- ﬂaw—ﬂag... 3.57125” /%éﬂ fﬁ/j ' ‘ A ‘ . a .9" a 1 g 25%?
A . . . . a a": H 3' "I , 0-29.77 F
. :5..w*4 To:

. » r1vr:§ﬁTRQNSa&~§BONSQRS ﬁwr‘“ a £5eﬁ%?avmaem§baf
, ~ ' - .- Alhaﬂz l .=,S‘11“-:+%Wb%? 1? :T'rfreWe-Bale wa KBE gimiiggiri a) ’ ’ I
*«.enmma;xas*z ai?DfeAlbanbﬁﬂhweiﬁzﬁFaﬁaﬂhkuaSmithpEeqaﬁtunited National:

was c. STEVENS (u. in): 1": . H 5073-3136 HtCOInm‘an‘der" Ac Destae’ ’IMEoNC .( Ethiopia) ‘»
f i ' 9%.; 2.3% ﬂ,“ %@ 6 s 5'; x . ‘

MI§S MATILDA‘WILLIAMsochM/AoAf‘ Q i. g "

f ‘- “w .~ ,.*26th February 63.

' was urinals. '(NATAL).

TVMR’ G MGL'Q;.MEE.’. «Timomrmi'ﬁ ‘ g

“R5 C- GARLAKE- ‘S- RHODES!» Dear Mrs Stevens , i M {-2 a: ,5-
.vw;;.,.,,_,,g,. f...Atilast,I”m lad to be able to send you,
f,§herewith;a copygof our Balance heet,as at 31st December
leat."1t“hasxbeengqaite a business,trying to get the job
I completed — the wretChed Hon.rreas,after promising for men-
.g,; . ,‘r=~s*v»“ the to prepare it,finally went off to India,and never even -
téld me he was going: I'll have to make another plan about a Treas., there .
.-,,are nohguitable here, and I just'stickﬁat having an African: far too mannyig,
Heads' or my liking,nowadaysl You will see from the btatement,thaﬁpif
it wﬁhint for Matildeilliamson‘s recent generosity,we§d be a bit downl How-
ever,l'm not worrying - it only means that expenses will always have to be ,
kept under close observation,and of course,it will handicap a bit,my personal
visits to the different countries. West Africa,in particular,is urging a
visit from me. Later this year,I will try to go there - we have a wonderful:
field for working there, and so much interest is evident. Sierra Leone in par-
ticular,is competing with Nigeria for making good progressl I -

‘ . At last,I'm having my eye done! I go into hospital here on
llth March. I have full confidence in this new Israeli eye specialist,and I’m
sure all will be well — it will certainly save time,and expense,being able to _
have.the_0p.done here. I have a Secretary engaged to carry on the office -
visit me every day,and read the mail. I won‘t be able to see for two weeks e
that'll be a nuisance, but what a lot of thinking and planning,l‘ll be able .
to do: It will be six weeks before I can use my eyes, but af er that,things
should become more normal. ' , "

Our members,the active onesl are keen for HEIA to affil--
iate with your organisation,and also the KIndness Clubs. I‘m all for it,and .
,feel We can have a helpful and closer association as regards the fundamentals,
which are all the same - without interfering with eaCh other's particular ways
.of working. It's only natural for different organisations to feel the need for
being geared to meet the special needs,or demads of their own countries.Afric§
being the sadly,uncivilised and undeveloped one of the lot,and penniless! re-
quires a special brand of patience and understanding. ' I hope you will agree
twith me,and still favour our affiliation, and with that also,of other organ-
isations. If our 'inactive' Chairman does'nt like it - I~m afraid,he‘ll have
to accept. It is rather pathetic how some quite reasonable African personal-
ities have quite the wrong notion of unity,despite all their talk! far too man
'Big Heads'are in evidence nowadays,and far too much shoutingfnfrica for the
Africans"! yet,they're taking everything from'the overseas countries,and still'
adopting an unfortunate attitude towars the white races - particularly the
Americans and British. I get wild sometimes. I could go on for‘weeks’in this
strain, but had better pipe down: , ~ w ' a

I‘m still on the look-out for useful Patrons and §Rgnaors.
I would like to have many. Now,I gather that Mrs Hugh Flemminﬁeof the n -

ness Clubs',would like to have association with us. I think s would be a

 




"useful person,and so many Canadians seem particularly interested in HEIA's work.
I hope you will agree with me. Actually, when the time comes to have’a kindly
of revision of our set-u¥,1think you,your dear self,should moms up to the Pat-
rons & Sponsors groupl eherekaregone or owe members on the Board whom I think,
can be"relievee30f their dutiesﬁﬁa no action at all. Homevergthat will be for
later,I?m_Loo concerned about getting.on with the real business of HEIA,and that
stends‘for*progress. “""‘ "" ‘ ‘ "l"h‘“ "°” '

> Have you heard yet,from‘theCorona/Womens Soc.,in Lagos? I heve'nt
rheard;a«thing. I had hOped theijwoula'write to you, Everything takes so long
in Africa - the mentality does‘nt work very fast1._l_ I have a splenﬂid Women
working inwﬁreetown,Sierra Leone's She does So mhoh'for animals,end_is so poor ,
herself; SOme time,1'll~haVe to send her medicines for the enimals,and Lam writ-

ing to the veterinary DeptmythereftouSee what they can do to help,

I had a letter yesterday from a missL-ﬁullemwho is kindly sending
a contribution - this, your good efforts again. Thank you very,very much,

= ‘2 ;, ~ «-I think this is all for the moment - i can hardly see5worselluek,so
we 49.9X9F36 faulty typing. I~~':‘ .,--_a., ,

,. %',leﬁh,all my thanks again,for your wonderful
z,support,ano understanding ~ we really must meet
some day: V 1 H ‘- I

‘ " ~‘3j'Sineerely,

 




HUMANE EDUCATION INSTITUTE OF AFRICA

Balance Sheet as at 3lst December, 1962

 

L i a'b i l i t i.e s $3 A s s e t s

an
Capital a/b Balance 31.10.61 21,874.10 Cash at Bank 12,005.10

Add surplus for year as per
Income & Expenditure a/c 34,131.00 Fixed Deposit 32,000.00
12,000.00 44,000.00

56,005.10 . 56.005.10

Statement of Income & Expenditure
31.10.61 — 31.12.62

Expenditure Income

To; Printing literature, By Danations 56,131.55
picture blocks, etc. 10,604.30 Interest on Fixed

Fees Translations, IBposit of £600 285.00
Illustrations,
Occasional Office assistance 1,222.00

 

Dem Secretarial Bureau -

Typing stencils and

Office supplies and

equipment 5,219.45
Postage, cables,

Post Box, etc. 3,900.70

Donation National Parks .
Wild life protection Fund. 500.00

Bank charges
(Ledger fees, cheque book
& Exchange commissions) 163.10

Balance (Surplus of Income
over Empenditure for year) _34,131.00

559416-55

As per Receipts and Bank Statements

Isobel Slater
Iﬁrector

A. Esmailjee
Accountant

 




WE EDUCATION INSTITUTE OF AFRICA.

 

DONATIONS RECEIVED (Donations to 15th June, 1962

AFTER 15TH JUNE, 1962 WU 51 . ' shown on Statement dated 15.6.62)
' @dli’, “Nari.

W8. Jo waert
Toronto, Canada ...

Mrs - GOA.” Pfleegor
Williamsport, P.A.
USA I O O

MIPS. Lo Flaks
Durban, Natal

Mrs. J. Lambert
Toronto, Canada

Mrs. Ella Ferguson
Toronto, Canada

Mr. M.L. Pallington
Toronto, Canada

Mrs. C. Stevens
Animal Welfare Inst.
New York, USA. .00

Winley Foundation
New York, USA.

Mrs. J. Lambert
Toronto, Canada ...

Mrs. H. Saunders
Toronto, Canada ...

Miss M. Williamson
Montreal, Canada

Mrs. C. Garlake
Salisbury, S.Rhodesia

Mr. M.L. Pallington
Toronto, Canada . . .

MTG. H080 Webb
W. Virginia, USA. ...

MIPS. I. Slater
Tanganyika

$80

shs 35.15 (Exchange from as)
shs 100 (Foundation membership)

shs 130 (Exchange from $)

3 10 (Membership sub.)

3 100
8 200

3113 4,766.73 (Wild Life film show
donations)

3 5 (Subscription for membership)

£2,000 (Donated to Institute‘s
general funds, on closing
of Sanctuary a/c)

(Membership subscription)

(Transfer from Sanctuary a/c)

tit/ends ~

IO.‘.OOIOOOOOQOOOQOO

DIRECTOR

QWM.

 




HUMANE EDUCATION INSTITUTE OF.AFRIGA

 

Balance Sheet as at 3lst December, 1962

L i a.b i l i t i e S 8%
Capital a/c Balance 31.10.61 21,874.10

.Add surplus for year as per
Income & Expenditure a/b 34,131.00

56,005.10

A s s e t,s ﬁﬁ

Cash at Bank 12,005.10

Fixed.lbposit 32,000.00
12,000.00 44,000.00

. 56.005.10

 

Statement of Income & ExPenditure

31010.61 ""

E le e n d i t u r e

To: Printing*1iterature,
picture blocks, etc. 10,604.30

Fees Translations,
Illustrations,
Occasional Office assistance 1,222.00

Dsm Secretarial_Bureau -
Typing stencils and
duplicating 676.00

Office supplies and
equipment 5,219.45

Postage, cables,
Post Box, etc. 3,900.70

Ibnation National Panks.
Wild life protection Fund. 500.00

Bank charges
(Ledger fees, cheque book
& Exchange commissions) 163.10

Balance (Surplus of Income
over Expenditure for year) ,34,131.00

56,416.55

As perAReceipts and Bank Statements

31.12.62

I.n c 0 m e
By Donations 56,131 .55

Interest on Fixed
Esposit of £600 285.00

569416.55

Isobel Slater
Director

A. Esmailjee
Accountant

 




HUMANE EDUCATION INSTITUTE OF AFRICA.

 

DONATIONS RECEIVES g, (Donations to 151311 June, 1962
AFTER 15TH JUNE, 1962 WM 2)! . ’ shown on Statement dated 15.6.62)

@QC Wit? ,

Mrs. J'. Lambert
Toronto, Canada ..,. $ 80

Mrs. C.A. Pfleegor
Williamsport, 13.18..
USA ... - 8115 35.15 (Exchange from $)

MI'S. Lo Flaks
Durban, Natal shs 100 (Foundation membership)

MIS. Jo Lambert
Toronto, Canada _ . shs 130 (Enchange from $)

Mrs. Ella Ferguson
Toronto, Canada

Mr. M.L. Pallington
Toronto, Canada ~ . $ 10 (Membership sub.)

Mrs. C. Stevens
Animal Welfare Inst.
New York, USA '00 - - 3 100

Winley Foundation
New York, USA . $ 200

Mrs. J. Lambert
Toronto, Canada shs 4,766.73 (Wild Life film show
donations)

Mrs. H. Saunders
Toronto, Canada ... 3 5 (Subscription for membership)

Miss M. Williamson
Montreal, Canada £2,000 (Donated to Institute's
general funds, on closing
of Sanctuary a/c)

Mrs. C. Garlake
Salisbury, S.Rhodesia : (Membership subscription)

Mr. M.L. Pallington
Toronto, Canada

MrS. H.S. Webb
W. Virginia, USA. ...

Mrs. I. Slater
Tanganyika (Transfer from Sanctuary a/c)

WM”

CQDIOOOCOOIOOOO'IOQIO

DIRECTOR

[/M.

/

 




ﬂ}
égzismamua (Ekﬁéaaiﬁwm eajéawéakéé €%/ZJ%;%;@2

_ ”M512”? ﬂﬂﬁa 24/3

12/539222» .- Wigs)” @a as! aaéwmv

ﬂn/an/mméa/ 0619/

5th March 1963.

“car 1Mrs Stevens,

A line in haste - thank you so much for the really
delightful photo of yourself and dog, just arrived. Such a picture would
“ nce any dull routine report, and make it shine. However, the most
extraordinary thing about it is - you are so like,in looks, my cousin,
Christine,wife of a Professor at London University, that I can't believe
it. Well, they say,we allhave doubles: But it's a lovely picture,
and I'm so glad to have it.

 

I'll be writing again,sometime — after I come out of
hospital. Please hold thumbs for me on Match 12th:

Sincerely,

 




. 1x: . .

[mm VH111 1.1“. T1 M11111... ££rh11 91.111.11.111...
.1... 111 Cm g 1?...) M... h» .1. 0%

.1. 11.1 11$... £1 1 .11-...

E11016 a:

3111 .1 1. be”. «1%....
. “10 h C A: man CHM-xv .wU YANWN/ mexmirmii

1.1 £11 0111 £113.“... 1....
Mt“ *1/11?th WAN/111.? prifi rﬁ. “‘11be HBHMQ..J~N.111
Lu!££\rv WW5? n.1L£ my £119.11... Q£ £61.19. 1&6..-
.1 W; @1111,ng

J 1

£1 .5? j: . 2. .11 .1. .1151

£>11b11hww® 71/111111: 1.111

\GODNL. .11....

x 16.7 111.11...
TWP. a (”[11111Q .m/Panﬁ Q1...

\Cdfww 9211911111“? a mfg
i mmVF1M£H1117P1W£I151E my; 1.9% Mfg...»

E £16111... £16 m111H£Fs 111. 1611116,

 




1“.“

3 , { {‘3
. H» r. I.“ _,..- 5' WV .7 Irv/x
I! ' \"g‘Lv'wﬁ'V \l \" if \9 a;

;

g .'
,1

A?
v/{J‘K’l "4" WM

y:

f 0 " ’7' . a -
‘ in. :wwwkr v;
.

(“1%. we

 




y“? .mv-a-V'nz .4 ‘ _ _‘ v“ . :. q {gr—v:<.—;v1~'r7¥:' w‘wh’? '- .v— 7-:-— rv !

a _ vauﬂm" “’ﬁwrv -“-q.fw~- _ V... ,W,. , .

Tanganyikhiﬁild.Life'film in Uanad&. Much apprﬁciatian is expreased'te

Hrs Joyce Lambert of Terontcgfor her very'helpful efforts om behalf 0f
the lnstiiute'g funds,hy Obtéiﬂiﬂg dOEatiOﬂS throughvariaus 3h0Wiﬂ§S
0f the film in Canada. The danatiana received from Mrs Lambert have
helped coagidarahly to maintaim the Ingtitute‘s work during the past

few ﬁﬁﬂthgo Tha film iS'being retained in Canada for the ﬁfagent.

 




L.

magma- ’ aé/éwléiw' ”4422/5529" 7/ [out o.
iﬁkﬂﬁﬁaaagéamaeyaar ’ _:/g%?éij§g{) ‘9e67 eawggz;

“94;” ea gjg/amm,
PATRONS & SPONSORS Zyanfa, 619/

ApYAnSOaY some; by V
,v A ;. ...; Alhaji Sir Abubakar Tafawa Balewa ’ K‘B E': (Nigeria)-

‘CH1EEA_.s. Funolkleh-ﬂohw‘:§'rh‘mwu. "it"? ' i ,p ‘ S , p ;
(”WNW“- Dr. Alb e r t S chwe 3: {:2 e If: "G .' Ivan FSm'ii th, Es q (Uni’t‘e d‘; N at i one) ,_

MRS c. STEVENS (u. s. A.) ‘1 H ’ I 'H ' command ﬁr“, A.}D3§:F a!!! I ‘E: '. N. at ( Ethiopia) .
- ». .c V g . . ‘ 5, I,‘ 2. Us. ,9. ‘4

w“

MRS J. LAMBERT (CANADA) . \ ‘73 gel-dig)

...b.,,', . 7 ~
~ . '14 .->3 \ . .
. «.2 A ,i' _ “m _ ._ 5‘“ .. ,[ ‘.‘ xi"; a»
>JMWW9W'vggﬂﬂ/VﬁaéaVcW?3%?éf *;‘
A. ' _'. 1“ ,. ",l‘ I, H '1.

.4'» ' '3

MISS MATILDA WILLIAMSON (CANADA) ‘ . ;
:5.» w, x M” x» » »\ ~x
mzss F. PERRY (ENGLAND) " "' ' "'*"*"‘~TT’-‘~"°‘““+W~3 ’m‘v‘ - ‘ ‘

MRS c. GARLAKE. (s. RHODESIA) “ i Mrs QJS teVenS ). . " '

..X. n N: . ‘ .1-- v "ﬂ, J‘ g:
mmLFMHJMMU , Animal Nelfarellnstitute,‘t
22 East 17th St. .»».~
New York,5, Mir. 5 5

MR G. MGOMBE. (TANGANYIKIU " L.)

Dear Mrs Stevens,

This is just a brief letter to hand you
herewith,a short copy of report to date. It gives an approx idea of our cover-
age,and something of the amount of work entailed keeping in frequent contact
with all these countries. The lJoster Painting Comp., is helping enormously to
arouse interest - next year's competition will have to be organised on a much
wider scale to meet the obvious demand. I have some 236 entries to date,and
believe me,that seems a lot when room has to be found to"house them" until the
judging and dmsplay is arranged. I'll try to get this all finialised by the
end of December if possible.

You will read between the lines in the
report,the reference to my changing residence: all an unexpected upheaval. My
husband‘s new assignment takes him away from Dar es Salaam for some t1me,so
it means domestic re—arrangements. After considerable thought,we have decided -
that I remain in Dar for some time,making perodic visits to the new establish
ment elsewhere. It would be almost impossible to move all HEIA‘S accumulation
of stuff to a far distant place,and then be somewhat isolated and out of touc~
with main postal lines of communication,etc., then,perhaps have to move it al
back again in some months time: I could'nt honestly,face 1t,espec1ally With
handicapped vision: However,_Miss WilliamsonSsplendid gesture has solved
the problem of having funds available to maintain an office headquarters in
Dar. She is a dear,understanding person,even handicapped as she 18 With so
much illness. I do pray so hard that she recovers her health. She has now
gone to Barhados with a nurse,for the winter months.

~ Alas,for all the changes we now hav;
to pass through with the change in Tanganyika politics,etc.It's a case of mak
ing do, or getting out: but my husband and I feel we want to stay a bit long-
er,if we can. At any rate it gives me the chance to get HEIA well known,and
established in Africa. The only real snag is,we don't know from day tonday
what new,and peculiar laws may be sprung on the EurOpean res1dents. an uneasy

peace": I must,before closing congratulate
you on your splendid stand re.the Hearings on Research Animals. I read w1th
tremendous interest all about this,in the HSUS News Letter which has Just ‘
reached me. I'm so glad for your sake that some progress seems assured. I 11
start to include propaganda for the protection of lab.animals,1n new literat-
ure, although I don‘t think such inhumanity has reached Africa as yet,1n a _
large soale w . Most African States,1 find,are inclined towards humanitaria
ism in a deci ed way. TheEPaintings for the comp.from the schools,express
this,in a most natural way; HOpe your Mr Waters can do something about the

 




Nigerian Corona Womem? ~
.'; , I‘ll write again scan a at present,l seem to have a
very full plate;, I ha 6 t0 8 ee_bun31k1raqfter.the Republic celebratiens are,

over:

ﬁeamﬁime, with all gaoﬁ wishes fOr a ham ypy XMAS.

. ' c3: , a "W m
» > a ‘ » . , gingeraly iOUiS, ,

W {AA/Ki @qu “3g. MW

vaf‘ QVEFWW?
6?:‘4%-1P;. u:ﬁ&‘ LgﬂijAKPQ—)1 ¢( 9 GL“*?Ei:Qﬁ?>
E§QVwJL. {EQbes re, ﬁﬁﬁdwg 3%“

 




HoeinrxeDUcATION,INSTITUTE7OF.AFRICA.
‘PROGRESS.RE§9RT.A '

-, § 7 4 a a December lst‘62L, ’1, q , .~
Over 5000 items of.literature,and posters,have_been distributed on request _
from 21 ocuntries in Africa.- Literatureis printed in English,§rench,3wah-”'
. ili,and several indigenous languages, as well as a small quantity in Italia
- and Portuguese.' ,The,fOllowing is the peeition to dateyas regards the wOrkf
” being promoted in these countries: “ f"=- - ., » :

NELGERIA:I Full~scale coverage in schools,personallyrequested by our .'
-‘ ' ' Patron,3ir Abubakar»Tafawa Balewa,the Prime i“ﬁlinriister(li‘ederal).
Recently a number of Womens Organisations have made-contact
s'with the Institute,and Humane Action Groups are being formed.
The“tomen's Corona Society requested some help as regards the
proyision of'books,and other small equipment urgently needed ,
for their selfwsupported schools. "‘ - ‘4

IVORX coaszi Schools have been supplied with literature m the work is
‘ . being supported by the Ministry of Education nationale.
A number of other individual contacts are promoting the
work of the'lnstitute. '

green; LEONE: Ministry of Education requested literature for schools.;
, a‘domen's organisation is forming numane Action.Groups.

QéHOMEY: Ministry of Education Nationals interested in promoting
- our work. Literature,including Lessons, supplied by req~ »
. uest. ‘ i‘ ‘ . ‘ ‘ ' Q
ﬁgﬂgGAL: .Schools have been supplied with literature,etc..by

, request of the Minister of Education. ‘

QHANA: Contact has~been made with Minister of EducatiOn through
assistance of UNESCO official personally responsible.

QONGO: University students in LeOpoldville,working in Groups,under
‘ . M.FrancisHyera. Great interest taken,and much benefit is
eXpected.-'Conditions very diffiCult in Congo, but reports
from members show progress. Watch'being kept on animal cond-
itions. Albert National Pare condition of wild life reported
to be excellent — very well protected. Conditions in local
Zoo,not too good.‘ * ." =

ETHIOPIA: Our newest Patron, H.I.H. Prince A.“esta,is taking a very.
. Keen interest in promoting our work: University students
' also active. ¥ _ .
QQANDA: Ministry of Education requested literature,posters,and Lose
a ‘ sons for schools. ‘

EQBUNDlz‘ Ministry of Education Nationals promoting our lessons-in
the schools.’ Much literature supplied.

3EANDA:‘v Same position as Burundi.

N.RHO@EBia: Supplied with literature in indigenous language. Humane
' Action.Groups being formed.: Rather unsettled country at__
' 'preSent. ‘ - ‘ . ’
S.RHODESIA: Literature,posters,etc., requested for schools by Min-’-
istryof Education. EXpect more pregress when country
* ‘ x a settles down. ’ _ ' ' '
NYASALAND: ', Ministry of Education requested literature for sch-
' ‘ ' ‘ools. EXpect more progreSs later. . - .

’ BECHUANALAND: ‘ 'Literature-requested,and Groups being formed.’

 




h I ‘ - ‘- 2.     - 1’
 fPOSTER*PAINTING COMPETITION: Open to Africa Schools,covered by the
»., . .. w I ,~ * * Institute. [Inaugurated as—a'prOpaganda
aexperiment"in,the first instance, but has turned out a-most successful
medium for the promotion of hgmane education. The‘subjects required to
‘be portrayed: l, Kindness to uman beings; 2, indness toaAnimal‘s.L w.v
To date well over.one hundred pictures have bebn received. Judging.will
take place tonards the end of December.Prize—winning_pictures will be
reproduced for posters. There will be two "Williamson"awards for the
top places,andother.prizes and certificates will also be awarded. Next
year,the competition will have to be organised on a much Wider seals. ;
= , The results will be sent to members later on. ‘ It . '
Meeting with the Chairman,Chief Fundikira. This took place in August.
A number of subjects relating to the work,Were discussed ~ among these
being the suggested affiliation of the Institute with the Animalﬁhel-
fare Institute,ﬂew York. No decision was reached,but the Director is,
personally interested in such an affiliation. The views of members on

this point would be appreciated. It was pOinted out that the Instit-
ute is an All-Africa organisation,andnot a Tanganyika one.

New Patron: H.I.H. Prince Alexander DeSta of Ethiopia,who was invited
to be a patron some time ago,has now agreed with much pleasure. He is
a great humanitarian,and fully Keen in promoting the Institute's woek
in Ethiopia, Where a start had aleady been made. Prince Desta.likes to
be called,"Commander Desta" _ he being commander of the.I.E.Navy.

.Board members: Two active members.haye been added, both keen supporta‘
ers_0f HEIA,and have proved their activity. One,Chief HumbiIZiota,MBE5
A Regional Commissioner in Tanganyika, and two, Mr George S.Mgombe of
the TanganyikaTreasury. He worked for the Institute in Addis Ababa.

 

Changes to take-place: As from the end of this month,December,due to:
change of residence of the Director,office accommodation will have to .
be provided,and partmtime assistance. To ensure the Headquarters of the
Institute being maintained~in Dar es Salaam, the Director will require
an approx.monthly sum of 800/- to cover the foregoing essential eXpende
iture, and trusts that members will understand and approve. ‘The funds~
at present are adequate to cover-the above. Due to the generosity of
'hiss‘?illiamson,a sum of £2000 has been made available to the Director
for the Institute‘s needs. a further sum of £500 has also been made '
available by the Director.(This from the Sanctuary project,which has

' been shelved for the time being). The Institute is Well~endowed for
some time to come,and will therefore be in a position to meet all fin-

. cial requirements(within reason) due to progressive expansion,etc,and

oesential eXpenditure. The funds at present,stand at approx;£2600,
It is hOped to get a statement of account from the Treasurer shortly.

 

However, in so widely spread an organisation,entailingmuch ex-'
penditure,especially in printing,translations and mailing, a careful
watch must necessarily be maintained on the funds ayailable, and these
should not be allowed to fall belbe‘a working level. Next year,a num~

_ber of safaris to various African States should be undertaken by the
Director - funds will be required to meet these. ‘ ‘1‘ '

, If the appreCiation of the Institutefs‘eork in many African .
States is anything to go on; the Institute would appear to hate a very
successful future.' ‘ ' - ‘ . " , ~

N.B. Comments onthis Report are.kindly requested.

DIRECTOR. ‘ '

 




J&nuary h, 1963

AIR HAEL
Mrs.ékkﬁal Slater
Emmane Educatian’
:nstitute of ﬁfrica, {5.3.1.ﬁ.)
P.O. Box EDVB
T‘ar ‘38 SLENQM
fanganyika, E.ﬁ.

“ear Mrs. $1atgr,

If you are hot, we are bitter cold} ﬂ bit of your heat would
please us here, espacially the pigeona who look so cold.

I hepe all goes well with.your 3333. I can‘t tell you how
sorry I am ﬁhat you should hava thia trouble.

Thanks for latting ua reprint the fiTEt page 9f the report.
The current Information Leport 18 already in paga procf, so we can‘t
do it wiﬁh thia one, but will hold it raady for tha naxt iﬁsue.

Thﬁ Schweiﬁzerlﬁedal is being awarded to ﬁnchel.Car50m on
January seventh. I wish you could be with us. Her fine speach to tha
women's ﬁational Presa Club will be printac in the Information ﬁgport.

I apologize if you askeﬁ mg for a gicturé ans E ﬁidn't aenﬁ
one. 1 was thinking of the picturag of ofiicials of govarnmant as being
particularly effechive but am glaﬂ to 3&nd one of ma. The one I hava
extra copies of also shows Barney, any ﬁ$ﬁfound1and. I hope that is
all right. I

ﬁbout the Danish circular, I simply hguéht you’d like to ba
informed 0f things of this sart that reach our office. it seemed not
very clear to ma. ﬁt any rate, the incraasa 13 intaragt all over the
world in ﬁfrican wild life is a gGOd thing and shculd make the task
aasiar.

Take care of yourself!

 




a1
%ma¢w (Cagaaaté'am "" MﬁZZ/j‘e / We“

/%6f‘%/ ﬂﬂﬁx 294273:
ﬂ/- ﬂ”; '0 6752; l ‘ Gigi-Se 6:4 daféwmy
Znﬂmnggﬂéa/ 6153/

20th December 62.

Dear Hrs Stevens,

Just a line in haste - my eyes are playing up badly
these days, the awful heat, I think. Anyway,I may decide to have the 0p
done here ~ the new Israel eye specialist just arrived, seems good, and
everybody says he' s excellent. He advised the op. in about a month. I
have' nt decided yet, but think I' 11 have too. I want to get the Paint
ing competition finalised first ~ it has turned out quite a big job.

This note is to thank you for your letter,and also
for the excellent "Befriending animals", just arrived. Thank you so much
Also, for sending the appeal circular,from Denmark. I don' t quite under-
stand what it's all in aid of' but will read it carefully when I can,
and will write my views later. So many sources appear to be bent oft
protecting Wild Life, and many don't appear to have all the facts, the
essential ones. I'll write more about this later.

Yes, indeed, I want photographs of all associated with
HEIA, for inclusion in a report, as soon as I can get down to it' I‘ m su
I had mentioned this in a previous letter and asked for a picture of
your good self - please send one. I have asked the others, but so far,
only Dr Schweitzer, and Chief Fundikira have obliged' I have a nice
card ready to send Dr Schweitzer for his birthday on Jan 14th, from us

all. “xcuse note, but I just can't write more - I‘ m doing
this automatioally,and can hardly seei

HOpe you have a happy and restful
Christmas, and nice seasonable
weather.

Sincerely,

3? emf! twwi WW“

”twwwg‘WK‘”
EMLW “53'

 




f?) .
%mwne (faéwcz ﬂan fwﬁiéw’é / Wain
”a? (f j ”W ﬁgﬁﬁa agar,
Z/- 9%).» .- 5/525 .V.Qﬂa~:e a4 ﬁwéawa/
ﬁngamyﬂéa/ aft/Q/

27th December 62.

”ear hrs Stevens,

Your most charming card has just arrived - thank you
so much. You have got a truly delightful touch in your art work. I onl
wish you had time to do some illustrations for HEIAL Soon again,l
shall have to start on a lot of new material, and as usual the illus-
trations will keep me chasing around for assistance}

I'm dashing this off,hoping it will be in time as
regards the inclusion of the short report on the countries we are
becoming known in. Yes, by all means,if you think it useful, print
the first page of the report.

I'm in the throes again,of moving around, but hope
to get settled in the new year. Really, Independence has brought quite
a lot of bother to some of us: Next year,1963,we have to make up our
minds as to whether we shall become citizens of Tanganyika,or not: I
think it will he NOT,as far as the Slaters are concerned. These ultim-
atums are a bit shatteringl but we don't think it a good idea to give
up our birthright,however much we liked living in any other country.

I'll be letting you know the results of the Comp—1
etition in due course. I have the judging fixed for the 51st.

All for now, and with every good wish for the
coming year. (

0incerely, )
l

kﬂQ QQJQQ’ML ‘
//, _

a“ “‘" I

 




AHIdAL WELFARE IﬁSTlTUTE
22 Boot 17th Street
ﬂow York 3, N.¥.

Bocombor h, 1962

ﬁrs. Isobel Slator

Box 2&73

Dar es Salaam, Tanganyika
‘East Africa

Boar'ﬁro. Slator,

I’m glad to hear of Commander Doota's patronage. I think
the good patrons are of very great importance.

About Herbert‘wators, you'll recall that he aaid in order
for Aid to giro any money to an organization it had to be cleared
through an organization whose name I seem to have lost but about
which I wrote you earlier. For this purpose, registration and listing
would be valuable for HEIA. As for the Corona'Womon's Society in Lagos,
digeria, it may already have such clearance or could.got it by sending
in the necessary information. If you wish to send a letter about its
work and needs or have the secretary of the Society send such a letter
to mo, I would be glad to transmit it to or. Waters. I do not know
whether ho can help or.not, but the only may to find out would be to
give him the information and ask him. He is aympathotic.

I was saddened by the includion of antikvivisoctionist material
in Joyce Lambort's book. This makes it impoaaiblo for do to
recommend. or to distribute it. I had hoped when I ‘dtarted reading
it that it was going to be such a great help in developing humano
oducation on a broad scale. ' - 4

How I wish I could help you with finances! At the moment, I
just can't but perhaps I’ll be more flush a bit later. 13 there any
chanoo that the new princely patron might contribute? Have you
thought of asking for photographs of each of the patrons and of
placing thedo prominently in a report?

Boot wishes,
Yours,

P.S. We were distressed to.road the following news story Nbvomber 18th
in The ﬂow York limos: “MIROBI, Kenya, Hm". lB-«Formora in Kenya's
Rift Valley aro using dyoomite to kill millions of whoat~eating birds.

. ”33 today “6331? 230001000 were reported to have been destroyed
in oXplooivo traps sot by the Department of Agriculture. Five hundred
thousand more were oxpootod to be dostroyod during the night.

“lho birdo small soarrowlike creatures callod Sudanooo diochs,
wore said to have flown in from noighboring Tanganyika, invading the
Konyan wheat fields."

 




I
l

I

' I

.txoyed during the night

 

Farmeus'Using Dynamite Io

To Combat Ends in Kenya;I A
117

Sper ial to The New YG‘I' k ":I mes '

NAIROBI Kenxa Nov 13 ————— .
Falmexs in Kenya’s Pift Val—Ia
lev are using dvnamile to kill l1
millions of wheat~ eating birds: b

By today nearly 2,000 0002
were reported to have been des I} ,

.ftroyed in explosive traps set»
by the. Department of Agrioul— 1-

ture. Five hundred thousanng

male were expected to be desw
‘

The birds, bsmall sparIowlikeI
cmatuxes called Sudanese
(linens, were said to have flown
In from neighboring Tanganw

'~Vika, invading the~ enyan

1v

 

wheat fields, 0/1/32," 6 2_

 

 




v . ﬂ) . y
C;%:;wwune anéamzmawe enfiwaéakté .7/ﬂaﬁééngz
. “ ”’7‘”ng . 'ﬂﬁﬁa £4273.
%Z— .0232» .- 5/325” . @c 544 daéwm/
‘ inﬂaaysa amok

22nd November 62.
Dear Mrs Stevens,~
So glad to get your nice letter of hov.12th. There are
many matters I want to discuss with you, but for the moment,I'll have
to let them slide a bit — I seem to be quite swamped for the time being:
and however hard,I try not to bother about it, the eye is a wretched
handicap! But,let me thank you very much for agreeing about using your
c0pyright style for some new literature. At present I can't get on with
it, but have a number of booklets in a half state of preparation which
must get finished in the near future. I am being asked for literature on
all sorts of things — "bird watching"2bmrd migration","how to feed under
nourished children",etc,etc! Actually,your little books would need quit:
a bit of changing for Africa, but the style of putting the matter across
is so very pleasing for young children. Here,we have to aim at interest-
ing the backward adult too. No,I don't think our printers here,could
possibly turn out such jobs at 7cents each.Printing costs are very high,
and the finished bob,very indifferent. I will think over,how best your
style of little book could be applied,and then ask you,perhaps,if you
could help produce something on those lines. I'm cluttered up at pre—
sent with the Painting Competition! did'nt reckon on so much response —
now the pictures are coming in daily - such a variety — it's a job in it
self,sorting out,acknowledging,etc. I wrote to the Californian society
you mentioned, but have‘nt heard anything yet. One thing is beginning
to worry me a bit - we must get HEIA registered somewhere? I do not
want to do this in Tanganyika,for obvious reasons, but I know Fundikira
will want it. He is a bit difficult now,wanting everything to apply to
[Tanganyika. I have'nt seen him for months, but last time we had a meeting
he seemed to be changing a little,and getting like all the other Africans
- everything for Africa,and all nfricani He objected to affiliation with
any outside organisation,etc,etc, I could'nt agree altogether,and said ;
so, but let the matter rest for the moment. After all,I'm doing the work?
and it was never my intention to have HEIA a solely Tanganyika organisat—
ion: and well does he know it. It is unfortunate that even our best Afri-
cans lose sight of logical fact,and aspire to create a"closed in" atmos-
phere purely African. I wish they would really learn the true meaning of
democracy and non—racialism — we certainly seem to be heading for a de—
finitely racial §tate,and a dictatorship at that! Please let me know
what you think about registration - is it really necessary? Now,that my
husband has taken on a semi-government appointment,means that we shall
be here for two years,at least,although I might have to move elsewhere
before that time expired, out of Dar es Salaam at any rate. However,for
the present,I can't think of other plans,until I get my eyes right again.

Some time ago,you asked me to let you know when I made contact
with some Womens organisations? A Mr Herbert’Waters was interested. Now,
I.am beginning to do so, and the Corona Women's Society in Lagos,Nigeria,

dﬁb asking for our help. They need a lot of extra items for the schools_:

 




they have established,as they can just about cover running expenses only»
They want library books in English language,particularly, also equipment
for elementary science. Could Mr Waters help? If so, I can give you the ad-
dress,and any other details. We are covering Nigeria very fully,and being
greatly appreciated. (Some day,l must get a report done: but when?). There
will be other womens organisations beginning to ask for help also, so I'd
be happy to know if Mr aters will rally round. I've been quite wor-
ried recently about funds — our funds! I will have to find an office rent
in the near future, and also some temporary office assistance - this organ-
isation is growing too big for"trying to make do". Fortunately, my good fri-
end and supporter,Miss Williamson, has put some money at my disposal for
Heia, so for the immediate future,the worry is over.. But I was getting to a
stage when I could'nt see clearly how to manage,and as the work grows,the
expense of maintaining efficiency in output grows accordingly. We have our
princely patron now,from EthiOpia - His Imp Highness,Commander Desta — he iS~
a grandson of Ehe Emperor, and a very sound humanitarian. ‘We now have four
good patrons or sponsors, and I keep in mind any other likely ones. Prince
A.“esta,likes to be called,Commander. He is in charge of the Ethiopian Navy:
I have'nt had a copy of Joyce‘s book yet, but I expect to receive a
c0py soon. ‘ Must close for now - please let me hear from you
soon again. I will write more later.

S;
a’dk Quad [IQ—9 9517\7LQ0 To Ame», M I
W W Gx‘iwvso— WSOC’b‘aﬂaiﬁLy’p’ J23
lend-9.01 at». W er: ”be"; eight LN“; -. d“ ‘0,

EL”’” Sincerely,

(-—— First fold here —-—’

 

To open out here»

 

 

aJaq p10 puoogos—-)

A
‘v-

‘ man :10 ainiusm

'sueAeig'g 81m

,_ .

‘uvz xoa 'o 'd
"Q'lvanaa BNVNHH :sssxppe pue 0mm s‘xepuag

”IIVW L‘dVNIG‘dO A8 .LNEIS HO
'HVVTVS $3. INC!

'V '3 'VXMNVSNVI

(“H's 'H)
"I‘M ‘gmxangmmeg

‘499118 qaLI 4893 22
‘Slnlllsul eivltea fewtuv

>
2
2
yo
I"
m
r-l
p..]
m
yo
U]
E
0
C
r-'
U
2
O
'-I
O
O
2
'-1
E
Z
>
2
*4

 

 

 

m
2
('3
r-‘
O
(I)
{2
7o
m
E
:
O
O
m
(I)
q
E
r4
b
a
m
(I)
C.‘
no
0
I
>
go
C)
E

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




ANIMAL WELFARE? mam-1mg
22 East Nth Street
New Yam: 3, NJ.

Member 12, 1962

Mrs. Isobel Slater
P.0.Box 2473

m: es Salaam, .Ianganyika
East Africa

9535: MN 0 3 13mm ’

Thanks for your cheerful latter of Getabe: 18th. 0f
course, you are welmme to use "Kittens am Cats” and ”You
and Your Dog” for HEM. No dcubt some changes shauld be made
for Aft-5.6m consumption. and if you want to new the changes
which are essential, I'll redraw the mature: involved, and an
African edition could be gotten up. At present We! are able he
get them done: in quantity for what amounts to 7¢ gash. Perhaps
you would want ta ask a law! firm if they could equal this
price, and, if so, the ahiwing cost could be saved.

By sea mail, I'm sending a few reprints of. my artiele
%friending Animls’" that mm cut in ahildhood Education a
few months am. I ougxt to have sent these to you sooner.
They speak of HEM among other humane edasatianal arganizations.

Jayne Lamhert has 129 «cubic sent yen her new beak, ‘ﬁaw
t9 be Kind".

Thanks for being so understanéing about the Christms
cards. I'm still m1: at all caught up, and before we 1mm: 11:,
Congress will be back in Bastian amin! I fear that because cf
the Americas: wastitution it won't be possible m legislate aminst
cruel apartments in high school: at the federal level. Hewever.
if we can get legislatien meted ta regattas animal experiments
in scientific institutiam, it will mke it matible te deal at
the state lava! with him schools.

Sincerely,

 




a)

c5$§iﬁﬂﬁﬁ$3 anémmzééve csjimwﬁdeé gy/ZJ%;%QQ¢
93/5197” 9ﬂ%x 242:5);
Z/- .922» .' 57.525“ :%2 ad .453 gram,
infaléyééa/ geM

18th October 62.

Dear Mrs Stevens,

Many thanks for your letter,dated 9th Oct. I am so
very glad to hear that progress is being made for the protection of lab.
animals - if anybody can bring this off,to an entirely satisfactory con-
clusion,I'm sure you are the one to do it. I hOpe the campaign will
bring in experiments in schools - I gather there's a heap of cruelty
being fostered in the juvenile mind in this connection.

Don't worry about the Christmas cards - I rather gue-
ssed that you would be too busy to take time for this. I have had some-
thing done here — rather hurried, but essential to have cards to carry
a Christmas message. I've only had 100 done-half in French. Next year
we'll try to get started earlier. I'll send you a sample next time I
write — have'nt collected the cards from the printers.

Thanks for the hint about the Latham Foundation re.
painting competition. I'll write to them. The first few pictures have
arrived — not technical works of art, but certainly true expression of
humane thinking,and that is the main thing.

Oh,before I forget,thank you so much for sending bac‘
my stories. It was so awfully kind of you to have taken so much trouble
in trying to place them. I have'nt time to do anything further as regards
‘personal' stories for the present - the urgent thing for the moment is

to get on with literature for HEIA. By the way,I came across recently,
when turning out a cupboard, two most charmingly illustrated,and writter
booklets, by your good self,for the Humane Society of Washtenaw County!
How these came into my possession I cannot remember, but the point is,
they are the type of thing I had been thinking about for HEIA school a
work. Now, how can I get a supply of these? Are they out of circulation
now, and could HEIA use them? Could I think get the illustrations I
done to suit Africa? ‘Would you agree to my using the idea for HEIA.I
think they are charming booklets,and so simple, and simplicity is the
keynote for such material in African countries. I had drafted a sim—
ilar sort of booklet on child care, but had'nt got around to finding
an artist to illustrate - and illustrations are essential. Please let
me know what you think,or suggest. I notice the c0pyright is l951£

‘\
/

All for the moment, but I'll be writing soon again.

With every good wish for your laboratory
efforts.
P.S. Fundikira is turning out rather
disappointing! trying to bring in'political
points',and thinking in terms of Tanganyika
only: I had to be a bit sharp,last time I
had a meeting with him. Will report on this
later,and circularise members of the Board.5%),

Sincerely,

 

 




HUMANE EDUCATION INSTITUTE OF AFRICA.

ACTIVITIES OF
THE INSTITUTE:

 

DIRECTION:

PATRONS &
SPONSORS:

ADVISORY
BOARD:

DUTIES OF
BOARD MEMBERS:

VACANCY gw_
THE BOARD:

CHAIRMAN:
HON.TREASURER:

EXECUTIVE
POWERS:

SECRETARIAL
ASSISTANCE:

FUNDS:

MEMBERSHIP
SUBSCRIPTIONS:

HEIA
Provisional Constitution

Humane Education Institute of Africa. Short Titles'HEIA.

Promotion of Humanitarian Principles in the widest sense -
Compassion for all living creatures, and Reverence for Life.

The Institute is a voluntary and non—profit making
organisation, is non-political and non~racial - Unity of
all peoples is encouraged, whatever be their creed, in the
promotion of humanitarian principles.

The promotion of Humans Education throughout Africa —
forming "HUMANE ACTION GROUPS" in schools, and other
institutions, and wherever such Education may be of benefit
to the people.

The Institute shall be under the Direction of the Founder,
who shall be known as the Director.

The Institute shall have Patrons and Sponsors. These shall
be persons of note, devoted to the principles expressed in
the policy of the Institute.

The Institute shall have an ADVISORY BOARD (hereinafter
referred to as the BOARD), to consist of seven, or more,
FOUNIMTION MEMBERS. Each member to be appointed on merit,
as active in the Humane Cause.

To support, and advise the Director on matters relating
to the activities of the Institute, and particularly in
the matter of responsibility as regards the raising of
funds for the work of the Institute.

A seat on the Board may be declared vacant, should a Member,
for any reason, feel unable to agree with any aspect of

the Institute’s working policy. A decision to be taken

by the Chairman of the Board, in consultation with the
Director. Such decision to be submitted to the other
members of the Board for consideration.

A Chairman of the Board shall be appointed.
An Honourary Treasurer shall be appointed.

The Director shall have powers to act for the-Institute in
all matters relating to the organisation of its activities,
and in the matter of essential expenditure. Any major
issue to be referred to the Chairman and Board, at the
discretion of the Director.

A secretary shall be employed at the discretion of the
DiI'GCtOI‘ a

To be derived from Ibnations and Subscriptions, and from
Fundrraising'activities as promoted by Members.

Foundation Members: Minimum lOO/L. Other subscriptions
to be considered by the Board in View of the varying
currency values in different countries. Some other form
of collecting subscriptions may be determined by the
Board.

 




BANKING OF All funds to be banked in an account in the name of
FUNDS: the Institute. with the STANDARD BANK, LIMITED, City
~ Drive, Dar es Salaam. Any change to be notified to the
Board, by the Director.

ggAgggARTERS Situated where the Director resides. A permanent

EN§TTTUTE3 Headquarters outside Africa to be deCided by the Board.

 

AFFILIATION: The Institute may be affiliated with any similar
organisation overseas.

Meetings shall be held half~year1y. Special meetings
may be held if matters arise requiring full discussion.
Overseas Board Members unable to attend, may appoint
the Chairmang or Director as proxy.

COMMUNICATIONS: If no immediate reply is received from Board Members
to official communications, it will be taken as 'agreed'.
Air mail communications are desirable.

INFORMATION_ These shall be issued from time to time, at the
REPORTS: discretion of the Director.

 




HUMANE EDUCATION INSTITUTE OF AFRICA.

ACTIVITIES OF
THE INSTITUTE:

DIRECTION:

PATRONS &
SPONSORS:

ADVISORY
BOARD:

DUTIES OF
BOARD MEMBERS:

EACANCY QM;
THE BOARD:

CHAIRMAN:
HUM.TEEASUEEE;

EXECUTIVE
POWERS:

SECRETARIAL
ASSISTANCE:

FUNDS:

MEMB ERSH IP
SUBSCRIPTIONS:

HEIA

Provisional Constitution

Humane Education Institute of Africa. Short Title: HEIA.

Promotion of Humanitarian Principles in the widest sense -
Compassion for all living creatures, and_Reverence for Life.

The Institute is a voluntary and non—profit making
organisation, is non-political and non-racial — Unity of
all peoples is encouraged, whatever be their creed, in the
promotion of humanitarian principles.

The promotion of Humane Education throughout Africa —
forming "HUMANE ACTION GROUPS" in schools, and other
institutions, and wherever such Education may be of benefit
to the people.

The Institute shall be under the Direction of the Founder,
who shall be known as the Director.

The Institute shall have Patrons and Sponsors. These shall
be persons of note, devoted to the principles expressed in
the policy of the Institute.

The Institute Shall have an ADVISORY.BOARD (hereinafter
referred to as the BOARD), to consist of seven, or more,
FOUNDATION MEMBERS. Each member to be appointed on merit,
as active in the Humane Cause.

To support, and advise the Director on matters relating
to the activities of the Institute, and particularly in
the matter of reSponsibility as regards the raising of
funds for the work of the Institute.

A seat on the Board may be declared vacant, should a Member,
for any reason, feel unable to agree with any aspect of

the Institute's working policy. A decision to be taken

by the Chairman of the Board, in consultation with the
Director. Such decision to be submitted to the other
members of the Board for consideration.

A Chairman of the Board Shall be appointed.
An Honourary Treasurer shall be appointed.

The Director shall have powers to act for the Institute in
all matters relating to the organisation of its activities,
and in the matter of essential expenditure. Any major
issue to be referred to the Chairman and Board, at the
discretion of the Director.

A secretary shall be employed at the discretion of the
DjIeCtOr a

To be derived from Donations and Subscriptions, and from
Ennderaising activities as promoted by Members.

Foundation Members: Minimum lOO/L. Other subscriptions
to be considered by the Board in View of the varying
currency values in different countries. Some other form
of collecting subscriptions may be determined by the
Board.

 




EANKING OF All funds to be banked in an account in the name of

FUNDS: the Institute, with the STANImRD BANK, LIMITED, City
Drive, Dar es Salaam. Any change to be notified to the
Board, by the Director.

ggAgg%ARTERS Situated where the Director resides. A permanent

iﬁgTITUTE: Headquarters outside Africa to be decided by the Board.

 

AFFILIATION: The Institute may be affiliated with any similar
organisation overseas.

OARD Meetings shall be held half—yearly. Special meetings
MEETINGS: may be held if matters arise requiring full discussion.
Overseas Board Members unable to attend, may appoint
the Chairman? or Director as proxy.

COMMUNICATIONS: If no immediate reply is received from Board Members
to official communications, it will be taken as 'agreed’.
Air mail communications are desirable.

INFORMATION These shall be issued from time to time, at the
REPORTS: discretion of the Director.

 




UNITED NATIONS NATIONS UNIES

NEW YORK

CABLE ADDRESS - UNATIDNS NEWYDRK - ADRESSETELEGRAPHIDUE

31 January l96h

Dear Miss Draper,

Thank you for your letter of 29 January calling our
attention to the travelling éihibit of posters collected
by the Humane Education Institute of Africa.

As you have probably read in the newspapers we
find ourselves very pressed for space and I doubt that
any suitable area would presently be available for the
purpose of properly presenting your exhibit. I will,
however, be happy to explore the matter and if there is
any possibility of our acting upon your suggestion I

will give you a call.

Thank you for thinking of us and suggesting this

opportunity to us.

Sincerely yours,
vﬂ/7M ( MW

Margare C. Parsons
Executive Secretary
Volunteer Services

Miss Estella Draper
Executive Secretary
Animal welfare Institute
22 East 17th Street
New York 3, New York

 




“were 29.. we:

else eereeret C. Famine

Staff Aetivieiee

lie lumber Services ti musing Mfiee
Uniteci ”he-Hens

he? Verb, New Yer-k

Dear Miss Pam-eerie.

It was weenie! be us that we might be peeperee be eiepley humeee
meters in ewe: be eeveeee the eeuee ef eelmel pmteetiee. it the time, we
had be display available, but since that time e travelling exhibit ef peters
,eelleeted‘ by the Hmee queetiee Institute ef Meme in e retreat centeet

have beeetee eweileble, and so we wish u: breeent the idea be we Fete yeer
we eideeetiea .

Beeleeed is a market! mm M eee bf ever Infermtiee Reports which tells;
abbet the exhibit. Fe elee have memeﬁem ef several ef the eastere ehich
have just bee: amt be us free Africa-e in awe yet: mule bare to see thee.
Mew, as they are eemeehet mm, I ee eat, meleeiee thee we will beet be
hear from we as be the beseibllity of each a display.

M: meme: the metefe are in Tereete, enti they ewe game sweetly be
emblem befere meme be stem me, embebly, be Fleriee.

We leek fete-are beeﬁng item yea.

Sincerely,

betel 1e Draper
Executive Secretary

 




Z
‘i .
‘
‘ .2

ﬂlllﬂlﬂﬂ Hilllﬁl

130 EAST 57TH STREET
NEW YORK 22. N.Y.

1- I.” .9, 7"”? ‘
V V' (2/65 ' <12: 1‘7 b 3'

,Z*€£7L7 3:467
9,359,799: [/5290 412703630qu /§7 ZoVLw/“C/~

ﬂax-49b £2. 1c 71f (2 79.4 2.229% (1%,(9mc/F

7 zjéyymﬂoa :7 :2

If» P ‘ f7 1
75 697%: :99: 10 [1:91:9- gmk‘ f’lu‘fzw/K

1,1
I

122,211.22, ﬂit, 21/; /2,[Lw/3 , 9 Z]; ﬂﬁiﬁu 71/
7/ @ 1/2252 7/77J29/é6 7192/ 9/! 62915192199921 7%;

7/99/6221 1792222799.; 12779929 7/Z‘14W4
[919ka j W £6. ﬂ/Wwf

ﬁt! ”(Ll/1.6. /‘\£«L4/~e, 271/in

.

9
/,
/

SuiU'ZL/LO Z/LCKQ. 2/me Lw/ZJAJL.’ 26‘ QJ/Civ—f/J
ﬂag/:93 69 A4 9 4/672. 6014.422619W
V

42va 4:9
/w:—€.<<p .Q54, (2 <2 2198/ Jut‘ujﬂ. / 32/79

ﬁlﬁ 51934,] i/WL W @/"[6 (111/
1.3 (919/379\
/Q @Mqu/z

/Z~é iQC/WLLJLU -/ ﬁﬂmo) K). 2% 52222496919.» _

.251 E22 .21 /
A1294) Z9 )

 




The Humane Education Institute of Africa

(DAR’ES’SALAAM, TANGANYIKA, EAST AFRICA)

presents a selection of the 900 entries received this year in its annual

All/Africa Schools Poster Painting Contest.

These entries come from African schoolchildren and older students - aged between 10 and 24

years ~——-— in the following countries: ——

NIGERIA TANGANYIKA SIERRE LEONE GHANA ZANZIBAR

IVORY COAST NYASALAND MADAGASCAR KENYA UGANDA

The theme of the Posters —-—— “Humane Actions” ——-— kindness to animals, as well as people ——

expresses the philosophy of the Institute’s honoured Patron, Dr. Albert Schweitzer: ——

“Compassion for all Living Creatures” —-— “Reverence for Life”!

This All/Africa Contest enjoys the support of the Ministry of National Culture 59’ Youth of
Tanganyika, and the Ministries of Education in many African States. Its purpose is to help spread
the idea of Compassion ~—-— Reverence for Life —— among the naturally humane/minded young

people of Africa.

PLEASE HELP the cause of Humane Education in Africa by awarding a prize to the Poster of your
choice. If you wish, it can be conveyed to the young artist in your name. Or won’t you please give

a donation, to assist the work of: ——

THE HUMANE EDUCATION INSTITUTE OF AFRICA

PO. Box 2473, DAR/ES’SALAAM, TANGANYIKA, E. AFRICA
Director of the Institute: ——~ Mrs. Isobel Slater, M.B.E.

Canadian representative: —— Mrs. Joyce Lambert, 52 Killdeer Crescent, Toronto 17, Ontario

 




' ., rm”:

A J '4‘,
i", ii 1/,- .aVLwi—d ‘-
V' Lad: 70‘!» x ‘ ‘6 . F = 3 U é

“ F21 EWW‘WJ‘"S ~1’ *9 mlw »
'. .- , \ y, ~ " ' ; W175? W ‘“ ‘(
d: K 6 ﬁebEO/Aaca [£073 Lj £4452wa 0// a, ﬂ’ca, , .
' /% (5. 1’ My“ .

SK 1?? ‘92)?) 3473 £92,452 ad gag”? inﬂamygéw
.‘ﬁ ,

n.%?eaéﬁ - [SGBEL SLATER M. B. E. LZ/n .%¢n ,- 5/9195 I. I

hf awn.“ . 32W M?me;q ' 9N4”:  

63% ,_ -' '
/?ff%wwﬂu(30

q Ci

M

'
rec‘
"U ,

 




 

w.

W mm

‘3

M
m... —

{$9

 

h
M, w
‘ I

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

{—— First fold here ——)

 

 

 

Sender’s name and addreSs:

HUMANE EDUCATION

 

 

msnwte or AFRICA, (H. E. l. A.)
P. 0. BOX 2475,
DAR ES SALAAM,

TANGANYIKA. E. A,

AN AIR LETTER SHOULD NOT CONTAIN ANY
ENCLOSURE; IF IT DOES IT WILL BE SURCHARGED
OR SENT BY ORDINARY MAIL.

(— 919:1 ma trade 01

 




%¢wane , @KAéOd/ﬁﬂn g. (”412/th (70/ L%€d

(ff/Z” é me/

ZZ- .Ojaﬂa ,. 57.9”};

 




ANIMAL WEIfﬁﬁﬂ IRSTTTUTE
22 Eaat 17ﬁh Streat
New York, New York

16603

Oetmbar 293 1953

Mrs. Isabal Slatar

HEIA

Box 2h?3

“Dar es Salaam, Tanganyika
E. Africa

Baa? Isabal,

13m $0 glaﬂ hhgt year aunt$st was ﬁnch a great Success. I
want to ran a short item in the furthcaming Infarmatian Rapart
abaut it, ana if thare i3 anything wrong in tha ioliewing, would
yea please let me know by raturn air mail, far I am sending it
off t0 the printer today. I’m sorry mat t0 have dong thig befare,
but we amem to ba soimrribly pressed far ﬁime it’s thﬁ Gal; way ma
can manage.

HU%ANE POSTEE$ BY YOUM$ AFRICAN ARTISTS DEEPIEZED EY H.E.I.A.

Ovar 800 antrieg wara submitted in th@ racant post@r
canten$ sponsorad by the Humane Educatioa Institute of
ﬁfrica. {fricam countriﬁs cooparating includad Tanganyika,
Uganda, Kenya, Zanzibar, ﬁyasaland, Madagaacar, Ghana,
Sierra Keane} Every Caast, and Nigaria which tapggd tha
list with 2?0 antrias. The exhibition was held.in Dar as
Salaam, apenad efficially by a Minister 0? the natimnal
gavernment of Tanganyika, and attended by diplomats frmm
many countrias.

Mrs. isobal Slater, Director 0? HQE.I.A., writeg th&t
visitcrs were ”amazad at the wondarful di$phay of Humane
ﬁction pictures from 36 many Afrieam cmuntrie$...l ﬁhink
WE Can anticipate daable ﬁhe numbar of antries for l9éh.”

The hast entries, about 109 in number, will ha sent
ﬁg North America for ﬂisplay in Teronta anﬂ Boston, and
will be available fer display by intarested organizationﬁ
throughout tha United Stataa follawing the Massachusetﬁs
SPCA showing. Those wha would like ta ahow the travelling
exhibit may contact the office cf the Animal welfare
Institute in New'York.

To raturn to the question cf the office, of course, you’ra
welcams ta use it as a placa ta receiva mail in the avent of an
emergency. I just didn't want you ta think that we coulﬂ take on
wbrk that I kneW'you mesa help with badlyuufcr that would be wickedly
misleading. we can just barely keep cur haads above water as it is.

Yours,

 




’2 If?

{){ﬂﬂ ~

I

133%:

‘a

E'E‘EEL SLATER NLE

p
).

E.

1“" e’

-—.‘ ~.~' .r

927/- 92%» ..

Z;

/

M

g? 0.,

f2." 547:}:

5

Z/
W?
w

in».

a
772/,

-.

gag/(54275 a

0

662,

Mfi‘ﬁdﬁ 6

(c
[2/

)

41/653? 6‘

[an L 924/5?th

0

‘
\_/

o

 




 

‘ .00... DUO...I. '0;Qua-noooaauono.pootnnuacunannouooac-lot-o-Ino-ootcon .coaotbon.

4 . «runny-In wan-pan

 

RPM

Doha-IInst-uno-lot-nil.-out...Ila-OnitlunloonyprooltltIl-J‘OOOQCIIIIQIQIIn.no..0.uchIOICIOOIIIO-tinolotlAlooaucoloothhoto.0..

MUM. '

.ooa-taccnu.too-o-IIn...~0o...-ououuoo-unau-u- uuopoono-unouuconu-o-ov-out...

W

 

.lﬁitotuunonlniltcoou'0'... to.

00......-IIIO‘IOvIII-Io-OOIDnQIIo-uu.Iiuub-o-uooouobiuloo-cuua-‘loulutttlno-o-nuoochnI-onolot-I.OOO—"I.OOIOC|.ID

 

coo-oollcllnuunniu

unnotanutnus-unnu-loco-ouoI-onnoucnaaura-uono-n-on-ouooun-o-c-n-o-nu-u-.o.-o-ouunote-outntuoooooyouug

I: <2 .

 

no.1.-
.-..a-....mouoa.n1.caa.-.o-on-ouuoaa-¢caou- coco-uaI-co-ua-n.-nonnno-oco-Io-oneg-conunuo-oo.

(-—— 86 fold acre —-)

mic-,3

no.00nounoc

HUMANE EDUCATION

loo-OI..-inn-noonu-oolualloIcy-UOIDCIo-COUICO-ooIt'll-O...trio-Is-.ou.................................-....‘..'....-.

INSTITUTE OF AFRICA, (H. E. I. A)

Ito..-DulnuuotuuullulluoIIOQihinoluolniooouon.

A:
W
M,
f
X .
1.

(-— First fold hcrc —-—)

Sender’s name and address:,

 

.I

,> «tr r} W
L] _f& 1
{a «:1 11
W e ' 3
_J-’ .’:(;::—-—-’

I. ..
_\ .. A
\V-v’

“I‘m

coun-uco-uotoooc-anon-n...-

P. 0. BOX 2475,
DAR ES SALAAM,

TANGANYIKA. E. A.
AN AIR LETTER SHOULD NOT CONTAIN ANY

ENCLOSURE; IF IT DOES IT WILL BE SURCHARGED
OR SENT BY ORDINARY MAIL.

 

lilo-inn.01-00-OUUQOIDOOOOQI...o.nno.ntl.llitt~'t0l

.‘.::..9r.......................

 

(- axaq mo uado OJ.

CO-o----

 




T w M M—oaa‘g Hawq'“ "'
5- 3% . «WM. mmmﬁwwsmé
5"» Mgtwwﬁ’v ’ D M W

/‘
%//& {4y %ﬁ% lékizan/d

/
HUMANE EDUCATION INSTITUTE
OF AFRICA

P. O. Box 2473,
Dar es Salaam,
Tanganyika, EA.

 




.1 ‘
t i
‘ .

‘ 1 51‘} "“1
i 3"

CHIEF A. S.

r“ "‘1

MRS C. GARLAKE.
MRS L. FLAKS.
MR G. MGOMBE.

h (2» "a":

»

.ch

x u.‘

(TANGANYIKA).
(NATAL)
i t

m ‘

J) 1.

MRS c. STEVENS (u. s. A.)
3»
J,
{38

ADVISORY BOARD:
MRS J. LAMBERT (CANADA)
MISS -F. PERRY (ENGLAND)

 

\ 4.‘
.1
‘ nu- ..,

.w
.;. if

\ 1 '1
l' L 1

(TANGANYIKA)
Ex
(I

(s. RHODESIA)

GM”: '55

-.
l)
/

MISS MATILDA WILLIAMSON (CANADA)

FUNDIKIR - CAHAIRMAN.

//

)
gal ~

aavwawaea
t

Alhaj

i
Dr.A1bert,Sch

wow/6

2M2
wei

tzer

Q.

14.
(A
.A A.
.J
t

’1‘.»4\3:~

a
o

'4 S)
. m

 

PATRONS & SPONSORS

 

SirAbubakarTafawaEmlewa,KJSE.

.A.

G.Ihmu18mith,E%q.

O
0

% ﬂ 5’
91%

1?

{I

7,

ﬂ
1/

c/

1

:19 {U}

0.2) f

,9?
~
.1 (4

’5": .
9 ‘54 a.) {ﬁt/again
/‘7

u ‘0'

if
9/

 




,, 999”
At 109
‘1: :13 1;; £1“ 91. :9
”999k 9999? 1199
399I -9‘99939911
11991t 9t t1999 9
99929999 up 912 f1y1.u r
999u199991y 99xt u .W .. _
1f 19°999 39.99’th9 9~ne 9k
‘999 991991I999 999 99 911991999
919 9ft992911,1 99911 “pra
1 9999 t9 99I1 S99 whnt
99 999 911
Inﬁiﬂ 9.11%
391999 1

‘1

9
t

R

(3'ij

V‘ I":

M}.

1.1 99. 99
‘ um our 11911
. .9919 to 999 9f
3.;--"i 399915 99919 99
” .91999 ut r99 91:
99 for {In92911999
11991‘Inﬂw

“1.1.13!
“‘9‘:

4L},

9 Iwwmrmm
.. 4 l;

.I r .3 I» .’
t t
.99w99
9 .

9999 i 99

I.“
‘1
1; .1 k-
C

(A

1.1. .
hI.
‘1 w o 1.9 w}
emu? €11“
90.y99

TI." .
“ﬁnyﬁ

99m9
1999
.Ltw. «H
199: 9999
$911191

6;“ 9‘9 5.9
Kw" x“, I";

.. .. ‘3
$5: 5-"1r‘!
'v.‘~ A-J‘.'

f
9999

vW we,
1. ' 51.. a 1:11.}. 13

iv
53 0:11;
If.: 199 9I

‘V

1999

1 , _ ‘
H9911€
199
.MW
9999

"N N
.4 5““
-. .2 ,2

91

(A 9 1
,1 .9
uﬂmwpw.

m ‘

..L
Pmﬂrm9
nuIa 9
1999 h9
11“: 0

. I
"34 1.1 .1.

9

L

"1U

5”.
1“.
1-1,.

I?!
..

If?
in}

1
LO

1;}

.T .g .1
4' ’ . -' "w 5“: Pym "4.
£715,530; . 4- J. C.) $39.11;.
“3mm

x» , “1116.11161113
19v919y 19 '

19999 151nk

J..‘~Jn

"1
LL

9192

{I if)“ 771 {:16
Our
191

"J

S's-4|

1.9.1

H.

m

. 99999

h

99999999 19 h9ve

1.1 f 1111“ u
9V9rything

¥ r r “1' ' . ‘3'
A” f} a}: :ayly :11 “1‘18, 1,1 16-1-59;

3

Af919999 forI 19 work m 99 it 13 91391y Spec-
999» I9*.Afr19999 to 99 fully '
9991999'999992ght that an African _
mv 9999.9.,99u19 9t111‘99rry'99 thﬁ
111199 99I29.1tan9.f09 that thefﬁfgre
911u91199 It h99 9999 vwry diiw'
99'19 91999. DB ‘9ltqouah my husband
'919, ut 9999 f0rL”ElA I feel I

99999
h1 b9
and 99;
1119k

whole
99919
~9§ﬁt99

e 9ffic9‘

pr19999nt¢

‘ 539111”

Vlﬂ
9 it 9911
9 next
1

a}
‘7." 4-

1n

\"'\

ﬁr"
:1

C3 Cf:

.1.A
pa 1 9
to his 91993 of 9991091991 9 that 19,
I 99911 want to mak9q9uch a 9999;935
9 ' angamyika, but 999 werk must go
9 1)I9t 9her9 I 999k fr9mm 9999999,
1““9 bring At 1:119 9992 91? the ‘
1999 99 t9 wheth9 9r 99 are going
‘ *099I1V 991199 my husband
“ 9tay h9re,99 shall 99
19y "how 99 y9u Imag~\
h9V9 mat 99 M9 born hera
lrig at far the 1991999 wh9
999,u’th,y are about the
99'9999 for generatm
I9w99112ng. he £991
119 999 rights 9f=tha

I‘”
:51.

s?)

9?3
£99 9:
m999 99 ._; m
999 f9r9 911
199 nlrtMrlﬁht 2
tnw.~Iwi 1999 t1x
999m9 i99999y1“I
any 9999 F. 1‘
,99 991199 Tamgany,<
9‘9999 9999 b9r9
19 99t'9 919919
9 199r 1999 19.
madly,9199ki,

th9 wark - th9 Gurrant P99t9r Paint~
.1191.919. 999 9999 700. Th999 hav9
E9999? 9h9r9 our 19 99.9hi9g 19 b9coming populm
but 199 9999 9? HﬁlA 19.99t9himg.an, and it
99 199 Sp9t$t9 9911y'9999t9 something that
h99 99 1999 when l~999919 99999 9.191 9f 119;
9999 1 999 99 9999 99 my wvww 9:9 I9911y
999999. 191919; 9f 9919? .1 haV9 mot
99999 ?9999 99919 I999 thr9ugh 19xmfree, but
19 h9re,f09 9999ythi99 '999 not-far
I37 CﬁnuItxjr in.-.frdxua 9.x919 1193t1911
99.199 p099? of being kind 999 “nmpa “101-
k9“. 1999919 119 th9 9919 <Ioe :for
$112,199 .1 999 1."‘I‘.SLJ 1.9 1999:; pub119~7
999999 to 99 thi9 999v €999h19g in the
Th9v 9999‘999 9919;3191’19 99rry out
9111Ta, n9r 9999999999 A 1591999'9999.

4—
1:

1
1'“:

C“ W
.37" ‘

k:-

111 1.3 1’7“-

(:-

«in
J-

r:
J.

1%;

(’1; .1”) (31??

“f1 «('9
“2.1M m
113‘7’F?

f

'1.“

{'1 53.11;”;

1

. .. 9p
:51 C r f 1.1 (".1

O

(“'1‘

‘
L‘
3 £1

1
.5, .. 9..
1

4

99
I
.51195 9
‘7" INTI

:QHJIJLQ

.9999

. r

by T991999
andvthat
t0 t9ll

th9
99.1 10H
' RS’CA
a9 9911

it‘99

rﬁd“J

é.

HIQAW
I mu1

3% ~
u A

Nu MI

,4: V; J

. HHUSV

9991 9p999 timu'

9
9V9ry

f

far
999
909999-.

hack

1V

J. u

 




3: T1“
WWWWWTW

far thW

bWQI
11 WWIWg:
Cf prizWW
who Wﬂuld like t0
It moul WW Wand
1IIWWCW W11 thW prizes
Wmu1d p WWW my, no h9i1
thWW 1W OHIIPGI 101

In Wur hand,:1

1m

4.?
WWW

5-,

A

far) :'.~..‘

“WIVUI 1.1:1. I

WIWCW I eru WW'tW WWVW
I mWy haVW lmst FW“““r
WWICWWW.11W

IEIA the WW ay I COW311WI
Afinding it tom much 10
usefu1330 I may Write
an WWWW thWy-Want Qur
WW thW; did IWWt yWar.
IIVMQWQOUSIy Enpf6013t6
»in high WWtWWmi

.I would lEkW

HOT“ UWWFWI Offﬁnlqulﬁdm3

IWWtitutW in this way,
for chilerW. I wouIdAWt
thW AmWrJWWW HuuWWW udl
fiWWWWlaIIy. I r 111v t1
by crank, A1.1 A ,Wf
to eriﬂg on our bWard
WW HEIA gﬂWS it might
work mugt p1 d WW3WWd
WWWW let 10 WWKW MW
lf,3t IW W WWWWWWIWI
WturW 1W WW WWW
Chi? thW.WWrWS

I'm WWW
of WWWWWHIS. You W411
Sear t~r3WI hW WIW th
WWW Haw WWI 1WW+
3 DPI out, mid kWWp 31
WW it 1W3I only hWWW

9
G
W
i
a

13>

15': 1“

S
n
J.
r
'd

g
m

3:) 63 13‘

O

m
“:1

VWWWt WWpiWW
Wv,fWW11WWW
WpWWkIWW
3t“IIWW

M1 .1.

Can

'5‘ 11.

(I OH. I ”'32 “3 9

m hW IikWW
pr
WWW
RWWWW

.1; {'3 £11"
«WRWTOUS

1mW

(”ﬂaw 3ﬁum ﬁﬂﬁtQﬂ-fﬂ;
“WWII way W_n§ ﬁg
Cnulr] yaw 1 paramqfdffa1133:.
0U POUli» AOW I 3:111:11
1W8 r1'W1'Wi 1W

0W1.y chWItIy be1
WW pWWr3 WrTWIW

If" 3:“) 1h"

”E11163? 131,11 1,1

,_ a, 113"“? frﬁmi 1,37 “I111”, F}
WW waqth3WWUWIM1EI,;WVFIJ rWW
fWr WurWWIWWW

“7
{12‘

k.)

é 1 ..
«a. I» 134?“! ff)

IhW

19”“GL3I L.
WWy WWWW,
1 m WCIIWWI‘ _
NWVWW yQur 1WW1W
WWW I WWWW thpu1h
War W1Wp1W3,WWC
priZWﬁ fa? thW m
EVWrythin What

11mWhQW3hW

W 0 UIV‘I (,1 ;, I”, 1*» 3 r

WWMIW
Qﬂ

:33”:
1 5.1-1 ”2:3

mm
.lk‘li

m
w’

uWMWﬁ

:"1 i ’ 1
‘5"! L _; .

p.941] 1 tit/‘6: 51.11.11???
AIWFF?
3130 With thW KiWW

mi {“5 if D? HWWWWT 3

“iWW Soc iety m WW 3U.

IWk 1’11 WWWW t0 i1t _

I WWW’t ZhIWk WWWWWWW3WWWV

t0 WW thW’th WWQI

fWi-Ng 32”!)1‘11WIVW

much nghL1 WW 3

WW WWWV WWUWtrﬁWW1
W11 W: WWW

1 ; 1

1 ”no, g-v/w Inr
16" but“). [Ail

1'11 1" 3 r”:

“1*:
IIWW

f1 1,112.“: f 'C"!

1) ,
-~~.}4:-11"

orW, I
W

{7).

V1”

115?? .

‘: ' >11» "x' 7
1.1 . 13'},

“If 3;, ‘ ‘ r3: I3‘
, 1 :1
If? (11.1.1. I I:

L113}

RM. ‘k-l

5“““7'1I'
53f

8 WW

.1539

.1114.

'4

I
3.1 ,;w L.“ ' :1
‘11:.‘31‘12 I r

,_ .3,
.1“. * (II 3.:

‘1
(V i
\ ..

‘7.)

WW? hWWpW
ghow WW 3
W WV
3WW31

{HQ} I

WWW I
)

uh

erg {It‘ I";

hﬁwj‘ . 1 , .
”'4. . .. 1 1U . v 1 , ,_ 1 1 - ,. . 3 ,I, :1 W
’WWIIWh 11;; 1:531:11 ~;§11 Wu;1111wW 11H‘ﬁwxfvaLf1
.". I, 3 . 3 " .. , -‘ 1 -
5 | , 1 , . .1 3:41,} ‘ﬂ:: 1' 3:11
‘3

3:1 :1 a 3:",
a”. .4. a: .

iiisL‘
A

"a

"K.

 




 

 
    
 

cutlon ’

   

 

$3313“) ,;Fun'gﬁuksir5 95%! . '

 

 

' ‘aoquittal. -- " a
,/“\\____ ,_ , '. w, _,

es and ' ' ' Wv . ~w

 

 

 

 

—"""~0_..

failed

 

  
  

 

      

- l

  
 
 

 

       

  

   

 

 

 

t 1

da

 

5 etc:

      
 

 

      

-\~~~.m_k

C Wltness

 

 

,g‘:

V s.
99.7

   

 

 

 

   

b,   ' 7  ‘ t
”[ caters {and waves fnom the ~. ‘
oromd in the. street greet the/
n’BWS‘ of Chief Fundikiry”
f « ' ' acquittal. //

 

 

ZA'VB




~
I... .. n
H" ' :3: 33.
{i’kio any-1:”

a,

' 1"“ 4 3m
.3. 3 33:23

”"1135; 'Er'“:
(031

V
. . , "‘1
‘u’ m. b" 3.333.

sym-
3"

' .3 .9. 3.33

«a
a 5-5; 3w...

‘5 3‘ “'1'
.3 $15: 3...: *5? {a{ Adi “gut; : ©qu '1
hrs. .3"; ,ws: 45"! _‘ “3?, 5i“ ‘ >4 _ . 1'.“ V ' - 3': , 33"“. . " ‘
$1.} 3: ‘3' AH‘ «is ﬂﬁi U ‘ V. . ‘ ‘ "3' ‘ ‘ '9 ' ~ I ‘3 3. I. ﬂ ‘ j u: 3“. WV
. 3, 3 r, _ '1 , . _ _' '4‘? ‘
' 7’ <u_m':'\.-~t ‘4 ‘ ;. 3 ., _- ,. _ a 3 3} ’ i. .,

A“: 3:»

g ‘t

.3 ,v - . non.- 4.3-.» gut 44“ f.
1'7: 3‘13 -' . .

mug. "ﬂ .
”é... ‘hava-‘ﬁv Us

“I
.. .3- .M. t .> a
g» Er} 3. -.33

9.34

"r ' *
.; “E - ‘.
3: .. .
3" 15:8 Ill!”

‘j‘m’szv'

.jx.~.,,.‘.,,

3—:372
‘ "a
.

1

(‘3’;

‘ a

3m
:3

3‘3, —.
. .3. .
. .3 . - ' “ ' 3v r: J ‘va
. r. . 'I _ ‘ .~ 3 ’ . » M :3. 1:3- 'a . '. «in 3i...» , ~
4 _ .c - . . -, , . ,3.
" . a, 4 ., \. < ‘ ) ., .

33:. ﬂ

1 532‘ “-

W

. L
if... .

{’33
33-3..

3","?

0
4
s

w ‘ f h

5”. ﬁri‘uv

3...; 9“}
Q

1 u a“

3351

«ﬂ «raw 1
35.57:! ff“:

:0': £35 1.553% mi In ﬁg?!

4:3; }. .tth

m.
a, 33".“ I
3533

93‘383993Q

 




1. 8:3- $1

{h ¢ -.‘
'5“ ‘1. .

J" a: l ”4.. I.
48.3%.“, 94.49 ..6-
«war:

a c' *

. w.“ »

4.

may;

.‘ 1 x
pi ' . 4‘
4 .. 34mm,

L

3

5 .
4:4. .w.‘

£14 .

<3 3'

WW? 4
P}: 4“} '1‘
r
”a 511W“ 0- anpp
R E It lig‘ .;w x" .2-

..4' ’01. .lg"

‘ 9'“; "A!
. p . u

"a

c . ‘
, - mm a. . J

9
5,4,: 1 . 5
5513.5?! ,3 f

L"!

a,
Li

5 _ . .2” ‘1» 1., ‘
“If ‘9 I y x \ '. f A
w: ‘.
" 3-,: 3- n», y)"; u *5 v. ﬁg" A

., L .
3.". xi} 1,,

‘,

‘3
a5“

Lzﬁ‘dﬂrb b 5.:

v up. 1 ‘ ' . 7'»
'mmwenﬁmmwrmo

if» Q“? ‘3’ ‘1‘“;
le :5“. "a

 




STATEMENT OF RECEIPTS AND PAYMENTS, IST JANUARY

P A Y M E N T S

Office Supplies
Postages, Freight, Cables, Post Box,
Telephones etc.

Secretarial Assistance

Translation and Illustration Fees

H.Q. Office Rent and Maintenance

00 Shss 3OO/L per month)

Printing literature, propaganda
material, picture blocks, Prizes
for Painting Competition, etc.

Bmkﬁmgs

Audit Fees

HUMANE EDUCATION INSTITUTE OF AFRICA

.8112-
519.30

19378-50

2,545.50
403.00

1,800.00
2,167.05

38.30
135.00

(

30TH JUNE, 1963.

R E C E I P T 8

To Donations (after deduction of

exchange rates)

Balance carried down

Innation to provide some animals for
needy settler farmers (Tanganyika) 100.00

9,086.65

BALANCE SHEET AS AT 30TH JUNE, 1963.

L I A B I L I T I E S

 

Cash at Bank
Fixed Deposits

CAPITAL ACCOUNT

Balance as at lst January 1963
Less Balance brought forward from
Income and Expenditure account

79301.65

Shs: 48,703.45
W

A§_per Receipts and Bank Statements

(Sgd) Isobel Slater - Director

DAR ES SALAAM

18th July, 1963. (Sgd) A. Esmailjee ~ Accountant

§E§3
1,785.00

7,301.65

Shsz

10,703.45

38,000.0C!

489703-45

 




HUMANE EDUCATION INSTITUTE OF AFRICA

DONATIONS RECEIVED '~ JANUARY'- JUNE, 196;

Miss Leone Muller
Mr. E.M. Saunders
Mrs. P.B. Topp
Mrs. S. McEaclran
Mrs. A. KulikowSKi
Mrs. Sargon
Taylor
Mrs. C. Martin
Miss E. Burgess
(per) Mrs. Joyce Lambert
Mrs. C.Aanleegor

Mrs. I. Slater

20

25
10

(U.S.A.)
(Canada)
(Canada)
(Canada)
(Canada)
(South Africa)
(Tanganyika)
(Canada)
(Canada)
(Canada)
(U.S.A.)

(Tanganyika)

(Sgd) 00.00000000000000000

DIRECTOR

 




%M¢ﬁﬂ g/wa {2972 jMé/w/ca a/Wéw
a“? was 9% 9a gm
.EZA.£Zan,475ai :EZLZemfdawmawm
102M... 1/82/5/ am, ”as“; Lﬁymwéa 519/
25th guly 1962.

Mrs C. Stevens,

Animal 'elfare Institute,
22 East 17th 5t.,

New York, 3, New York.

Dear Mrs Stevens,

Just a few lines in haste, but I felt I must acknowledge
with most grateful thanks,fhe very generous donation,just received. I'm part—
icularly happy to receive it at the moment,as it will cover the costs of the
recent booklet for Humane Action Groups,the bill for which is on my desk:

11 have sent a nice note to Mrs Ripley,along with a few
new items of literature - just to refresh her memory!

Yes, I think Mr Fairfield Osborn might be a sponsor,since
he is interested in the wild life side of things. It is quite in order — as I
practmsed by some other societies I know - to have Patrons and Sponsors. Act—
ually there is no difference, but a Sponsor is usually expected to take more
interest: When we eventually have some more Patrons,or Sponsors,we can show
them on our printed paper. I would like to see quite a row of well-known,and
interesting persons,thds,in print.
I will write to F.O.,and also send him some literature
I'll send the letter to you,if I may,to send on to him. I'll try and get this
done next week. We're just about to move house this week-endﬁand there ar.
quite a lot of chores to get through. I always say to my husband,we have far
toomany belongings: and moving becomes a major operation" - as it is,I don't
quite know where everything is going to go,since the new house is consider-
ably smaller. But it's no use trying to sell anything here these days,might
as well give it away for nothing.

Thank you, I' m sure I' ll get the best attention for my
eye - it will be a relief to see prOperly again. I'll be writing again be~
fore I leave - they're trying to get me on a plane on Blst August - the planes
and ships are all crowded with departing East Africans:

My grateful thanks again. Hepe your laboratory campaig-

Sincerelih fﬂmﬁ (O/QfJ

is getting along well.

{f}

 




mm. Immms Im
22 East 17th Straet
’ New Shark, ‘3,» NJ.

Ju- ly I, 1963

km. Mabel Mater ,

Humane Hawaiian Imtitute (If Africa
Box 2473 ,

BM? 6&5 3a laam, Taaganyika, EM.

Bear I scbel , '

Thanka for ymur goad letter and for the general letter mddrassed to all
havisoryBoand Members. To anSWer qnestions in ardar: V

1) I think yam am much best qualified to dreams; which methoé Qf limiting
entries would be mFst effective and mast conducive t0 encauraging interest in
h'aﬁne txeatment OE animalﬁ. fohand, I should thiak you could combin91311 threé
of the mggagtitznsiin aha, that is, ansWer a quastisnnaite which maid include a
glace far the repmmt of a kind action and also a pmamise ta be signeé. Alia, X
think badges mightiprQVE t0 be very popular with children. 13 there any way that
ymu acula teat thisgout a bit befare having them produced on a large scale? I'm
sure tha contest muat be a great deal of work, but it aeema to me a very 900% may
to get in atntact with schoola and to encourage the taachers, too, ta pmamota
humane eéusatian. _ '

2) I think ywur prepased tour 0f ﬁést Africa is an excelient idea, and I hope
yvu'wﬁll gm.

3) By visiting in per$on you cauld form a aeuné judgment as to individuals to
invita ta sit on tha Advisery Emtrd. I am sure ﬁhat an organization such as H.E.Z.A.
aheuld have braid represgntatIon in different African countries. However, as in ‘
all humane wnrk, I; it absalutely agaential to make sura that everyone who has an
aative V9166 in pelicy making 1a ganuinaly humane. "ﬁrganizatien man" type can
wreck humane mark, and they often do.

4) Y0“ kindly suggest thﬁ I ha the Institute‘s Represgntative in the USA. I.
am, as ycu knww; aﬁwaya ready ta do what I can (Which has, 1 feel, been dis~  
appeintingly littla) to help H.E.I.A., and if you think calling me the Repre5ent*-
ative will help, 1 am Wilking. an thg other hand, if ma cauld think of anyene
else who could spend a Kittia time {which E am am tarribly short of) in organ“ '
izing, it might bﬁ better for me simply to he reprasented on the Committee and
ehlp anather person wﬁth advica. Has anybody 1a the Massachunetta SPCA seemeé
to really ”take hula“? Thay have an enermmus endawment fund (about 14 millicn A
éallaxa. I think9 and they 60 takm serieualy their commitment to sue of the Nérth
ﬁfrican animal pratective sccieﬁies (I fmrget its name) but Guy'Dnlon for many
years wan it). Therefore, if you cou1¢.establi$h a foethalé there, it cauld be a_
helpful farm‘s? security far H.E.I.A. The MSPCA is genuinely humane. Dr. Eric ‘f
Bunsen (the‘ﬁr ”is honorary) might accept an invitation to sexvﬁoan your Advisggytg
ﬁIaxd.and appoint a member 0f the MS?CA staff to aerve a; U.S. RepteaentatiV8c' 1
If $0. I think Vﬂu wauld have same highly conservative but degenaable assistance; é
ané‘H.B.I.A. wmulﬁ dcubtlasm be publicizea in their magazine, ”Our Dumb Animals;"'
‘ They'will not, in my opinien, give H.E.I.A. any money outright, but I believe you'f

ﬁbula get denaticns through your-aaanciation with them. ; 

Yam ara-at libarty to-tell Ea. Hansen that I suggeatea his name fox your
téviacry Bearﬁ, if yea wish. He is an able and aanaible man wha wall give
anund adviae, a Dane wﬁﬁ‘workad his way up. He came to the United States 8a a
vaung man. He knows what it is to run a humane society Without any money, as
he ta 16 me “than he matted a3 exmtive in a; midweatam humane organization,
ha baa ta eﬁcape tha aaciety’S-araéitexs by gaing out the back éoor when they
came in.the freat, until he was able t0 raise maney ta pay ﬁhew.

 




ThMMgM he M111 MhMMMMMlly MMll MMMMM thing: likM this, I do MMMM MM MMMMMMM that yMM'MMMMM
a MMMV MMMMMMMfMI IMMtMM MM imvitaMiMM MMMMMMng Mhat an hMMor

11 MMMIM MM MM MMMM MMM Mrer MM MM MMMMMMy MMMMM. 1 MMZg_M1VM MMM MM1M 111 Mf
MMMMMMMMMM MM MMMM MMM 12 MM 1M MMM MMMM M “MMMMMMM MM. MM MM :“MM MM MMM
MMMMMM1MMM Mf MMM MuaMMM M MMMMMMMMMM MMMM MM MM.

MMM}, MMMM 1M ME:
MMMMMMMMMM MMMMMIM. ‘
CMMMMRMM SMMMMMM MMM Mgémul
M1 MMM MMEEM MMMMMM MM MMMM*:
ﬁ1$$ 133 ”1333121; M 3.: ,1 ‘11": :i .__ .. a _ .
MMMMMM MM MMM‘M ' 1M
1MMMM1MM1MMM 1

) .

211 I 4'35
1' G'. ‘1me
VA

1; 1.4: .9

TERM MMMM MMMM M; MMMMMuijg
MMMM.MMM1MM. - -

 




MANE EDUOAW INSTITUTE
01‘" Am

 

. /
DSSI131915316KFbV3§1

l fer
-1?" Saint 1.113;;

I would be
oonﬁitions for our
following SSSonzm

:17 011 .1“

'1"

«L.

The SnmuSl competition th become 0
SSSIV to tIv th limit the ehtrie
of oowgwe $68011 to 'hot WSIIt'

Sud IIHIS all typee of SchoolS.

l.

he neoe
Without
numbeIS,

Li}-

1"“.
-.

1.-)
£31.11 ,-

.-. -—'—-

.ud‘.

CJ.‘

iﬁee

r1

It won” oe gooo

thjlﬂ1

ShoII ﬁoh t11e
or

(“3“

1’1

1.61:; ’“5701.
bel

CSIC, Ss
IIIIIIEIII
or

- O"DNl
-1.) u.]_ tQ

“m

1SCV
"'U

1

.\.
{.J. 33.1,

{'51

Cb...

8.

I (ELVC’ 1y .11 .1. (.1 d

C.“ ‘3 1
k.) L".

t

$333.11. "311

thlon S
eoiSl eao SS

.L‘JoJ off.

'.IJI<JItI/ tCIII ve
' be I I““1118. ides
i O}: 5:11p.

“J ~..7 V

r_
K‘.

to limit
to each
III) 1 ()1? 11. :11111.
I ehtrj.ee “Tom 101
eliminete ”SIMS SoIoole

.I 1'
IIISCSIU lﬁk.Floﬂ.

l eotrleeb/

11.: 1-1 ve’oe Sen "0 Ii}? 1.1.152;
1 -1 *11‘6 1-1-37,

CSIISIS MIILSI of iornm
pour 1S, Sud many of «on
pSIticulSrly notioeo] 1
hard1y3oum ole to
woulﬁ vdh oI ISciSl

f-
:21.

9
51H

‘1»
f

t.)

l 1
uni—na—

rwr‘
33C».

enough SS yet

is time J -
be prepSIed to

1411
”1.. .1.

It
would

(i? 13 C)

but 1

e tref ndohé

illuiv.) :11 i}:

entails

. - _ - .J-
1.1.7133 {1.1.1.153 {I

”TLyU ed V:1sit of Director to W. .i?1
to numerous IeCueSts
8.' IsoIU11 Vieﬂft, I It c=<il it j.
Our work is so much 8f IeCIxt
INIt oIIr IIoIﬂI.:r :SISI IJJ101IO—
rl.ves IcitIﬁgper oh—ﬂLjhelqa 011
the Vieit durlh, tober
our orﬂe S, C others
tioh on I d, and

c;. 8011
plS, Vieit,

{‘1
V

In
couStrieS,
the ISUI.
.1371 "II" 6355
to QIISoICS
.1 pro3XSm: to hkdhe
111.138.190ij ”('3 0]: Ci SE .‘3.1.Stj. 71
stabljeh SUI I-e SSUCS
IISIIS woulo be the
L1: 011153 f. 8.1/18 1.! C13 E3; 8.1 .

16-4 ‘ 3110113
for
ts.

1.} 1:"
L.) (T.
x.

.K.

CC
an
1’1

1")
.L
._ .19 - N4-

IIISI. OS to

T .53
.-'. 1.1

- (3

2C. .
S - .
k.__.

13.1.1.1} 1"

QF‘UI’}

LHIV

I1. TO] 11 S 01.1

,. m5

{111(1)
NONI.

ISL.

1.e co:
11 L

In I f“, 1 ‘
M. C,/ . ‘

MOVJCC
COmUFUjUWOH, for the
(‘1‘ £W9‘0A‘a

imp

tteohed.
{MTC‘C
bud S can eh.te1.

OUG
qtc’lfle 8.116..

Sltoge

from

GI

EduoethI
intereet in

-fowo CC Vi

.‘

Ss regarde the

a)

populSr t.hSt it mII

for heXt veot's oonteSt,
~IISS in

Such 1S, Ige

—L.

1
L; A

.L .1.

h

0 EELV r": E: ‘52. C‘

’}

OI‘SSCS o1
.yS beiwg kind
negleoted or

would
only

Ur
1.11160

SSSIh,
:1
8.1 .1 L. I.

only CV&WClné out
still, the entries
Uhis is

It is
83 t.HlS

Schools.
the?

st,

'Cﬁ f.)

)\_)( _'

1964 conte
teps, if heoe

33°
of
on

work, but it
SUCCSSSfUlS

lCEL.

St African

to Seepond to
several countries
it S.little olI“ Ioult
the Spot. IhC- eIore
November for the
intere eeteo to
rSctIoSl hes
ihS up in

We
S 11318
ed in

1’10

1C ISI;..

om by mail since
but ISO: S1

Ss Stard” leotuxes
Departﬂehts
the pro”
*0 TCQIIHVtO

1,)EL

"3.73."-
k.)

I’CES

.
C“ “
IQ ‘

eoonNIIoII]

 




.1

JR)‘ ~

L;

'.

. ._ .L.

M..-

 

”A ‘ w'mv. hwmw‘.))u w,

.v x "

,
. 5..)

c

3 ‘,...z 1.4. {,7-
..¥.. £11,; L2

3
/

«

x

 

|
'- my.

‘Vj

K.
O ..

i

It" "80'

c”.
(L

. .Y1
I

u»-

n

n
(V
(x.

 




4) . K .
45%§:szmw2 Q5na%muﬁama a/éahéékéé 37/7a2gZQae,

ﬂJKeéfsxf/

a? Lgkzr 294/3 %2 42.4 g/QZZWZ', Znyanyééw @mJ/

ﬂaw..- liobEL SLATER M. n. a ' ‘ 2/, .024... .. 5/52;

., llth June 1963.
Dear Christine, _

So nice to get your letter the other day -glad you are
pleased about the Mass.people helping over the posters. The prizes they
awarded were joyfully received. I have already had reproductions done
of about 12 of the posters,and they have gone around Africa,in a big way
in fact, they have been reCeived with great pleasures in all countries -
this form of propaganda is indeed a tremendous help in stimulating in-
terest and participation in our work. I had thought you might have seen
some of the posters which were sent to Evelyn Burgess for some confer-
ence in Ontario, at which you were to be guest speaker? Or have I got it
all wrong. eally these days,having to leave so much COpy work to office
help,finds me at the stage of not remembering everythingi Still,I have ‘
to make the best of things for the present. Although the Operated eye ca
see — it must'nt be used until I have the prOper glasses, and the spec—
ialist is a bit cagey,and won't hurry things - he just does'nt realise
how much I need to use my eyes. In fact,some days,I get terribly despo-
ndent. Now,that I have to have office assistance more or less regular
it means,more funds will be neededi All right for some time to come, but
some effort will have to be made to seek new sources. If only UNESCO
nould'nt he so high and mighty,academically,and realise the need for our
kind of education, they could help. I have spoken with two separate
sources here, who have promised to look into the possibility of receiv-
ing donations for HEIA - one is the USA Information Services, and the

other,a USA Church organisation. I have'nt yet heard from either, but
I'm always hepeful. It is time now that I did some visiting of our
workers in other countries ~ in particular,Nigeria and Sierra Leone,who
keep crying out for a personal visit. My eyes have been holding me up,
but I‘m going to try by October and go to‘W.Africa. The Nigerian High
Commissioner here,has given me the privilege of his diplomatic bag,for
all the stuff I have to send to Nigeria.He is terribly keen himself,on
our work. I have so many things in process of preparation for print-
ing, but still cannot get down to them until I get my glasses. I am
thinking of using two of the Poster pictures for Christmas cards —
they seem to be so much thought of,by all who have seen them.I”m wait-
ing to get the posters back from Boston,to get the right colour tints.i
By the way, Joyce Lambert would like the posters of this year‘s contest
to go to Toronto first,before Boston a it was too late this year for }
her to have the 1962 selection. I still have'nt got around to prod— ‘
ucing a HEIA booklet,with piotures,etc., but really will try hetero
long. Bother the eye business: I have just received a most horrible
folder from the National Catholic Soc.for A.W. in tashington, showing!
some of the brutal cruelty to laboratory animals. Such cruelty makes 3
my blood boil. it can‘t be necessary to torture animals in the nameﬁ/’

 




u)
H
o
4::
H
:3
u
I:
a)
O.
O
'0
H

9919 nee - it 19 9991991 911 the eternal 1999 9f $99. I feel like writing to
President Kennedy,and,te1l1ng h19,99. Sueh inhumanity 999 be 991919g 991*9‘*
blight on any country. I bender how your efforts in th19 91999t1on ere 19 rem
greseihg? Whe t 9 91999193 somebody 19 9919 to do 991119 for 13h999 peer @919

9909199 9 ereetur99. I f9el convinced that the orue1ty 9919: 99r991r919d on
animals now,1n labse, will reflect in e tra91c 1.7ay, 99 Leheret1o99 to come”

I have gjiven up trying to get: 991d of buhdikire 9 he 9 out 91 wevernm

ment now, end althou h he has 991d, 9 dozen times,he 19 coming 19 999 me — (1
can't drive just new he never comes _ quite 19 accordance with Afr1een men~
nersi we go from bad to worse here - I enly wish we could move to 9999 ether
pert of Africa, 9r out of it aikhmugelfog9tqer. I can oonéuot the 99rK 9f
HEIA from any place. Eut I still think we must he 9ff111919d with eiher overe
seas organisations.9ueh as yours,the K1ndness Club9,and oth9r 999999 199t1tut
ions ~ I shall think in thoee terms anyway. When I get a chance to 11911 et«
her countries in Africa, thereﬁ%ﬂ will be new worKers to pur on the Aevisory
Board. There is a splend1d worker in Sierra Leone, 9 women (9191999)9n9 hes
formed a branch, backed by the duoation1m Winistry,who at my r9 ques gvetted'
her, I've lots more 10 tell you, but it will. have 19 Keen m 1 mu9t'9t

e , q u
do much strain to the yes sr11e soon 99919, 999 1911 m9 hew the

L 19b,, oempeign goe9 99. When I“eoel
down 9 b1t,I 11 write a few 1nd9peed9nf 1911999.

Yours, C;E;D. _,,e’**

4—— First fold here ——)

 

ELLLEI’I HIV
NOIAV HVd

.‘Q'.S.ﬂ

'ELVZ X08 ‘0 'd
“X'M‘Q‘HJOIMH’ .. ..

("i ‘l “a 'H) ‘vanuv ao iiﬁmsm

 

r1);

Noumaamwn“

‘NVV‘IVS $3 INC

'V '3 'VMIANVE) NV].
7

Q

"IIVW L‘dVNICIHO AH mas HO
(13511171139113 99 TIIAA .11 5300 11 :11 53111180131121

 

 

mvmvmoo lON CI'IIlOHS 1131131 HIV NV

 

 




 

little,

F
“J

“ed

H“; 8 {If}

r
(3

1
F‘s
k /

Cam

%
c

r.

my...“

long

I; L.) a S t-

‘E 1"
3 L1?
x.»

othér

 




 

ﬁr“

‘Plllllllll

HOW much advantage do we. Asians of Kenya "and
' 'East Africa derive from tourism —— our great bounti-
. ful cash-producing industry? It is pretty subs

.. .-}W' ....m

- 'January‘14,_}962 ' W " 95‘ ' ‘

slitting our own-throats, among

01" course!

And which is the, major attraction which brings all

 

' this money into the country? 'Our wild life, of course!

Yet who are the people who
are bent upon destroying, as
rapidly as p o s s i, bl e . this
veritable gold mine? The

African poachers ,. . .[NO, there -

is NOT going to be an “of
course” this time.

As usual, get ready with
your verbal sledge hammers for
my fortunately well-padded

». head.,This will not prevent me
from saying-that it is we, the
Asians, in collusion with the
Arabs (by the way, aren’t they

- Asians, too?), who are basically

responsible for the headlong
extinction of one of the most
valuable and irreplaéeable
treasures in the whole world.
Some of us are directly
engaged in what amounts to

other things. Others are abet-

ting this process, albeit in
ignorance.
r142" :ii'v.‘

* t
To m rather dull and blun
way ofythinking we have got
to make certain allowanceshior
this barbarous way in w “(id
the poacher kills precmus W11
animals on such a large sca e.
The illicit hunter is generally
a primitive man. He is pear
and ,he is hungry. To .him e
“lure of the shillings which these
animals carry on their, carcass.

,_ plus very. .oftenmthe. . meat, is

irresistible.
He is utterly incapable of
worrying about the pain hie
causes by his methods of kilt-
ing and snaring or of apprecraﬁ—
ing the long—term true wor 1
of the game he destroys. .
For all that, such unauthorised

' is severely illegal-r
destruction It must be i

and rightly so.
stopped.

Books and pictures,
and statements, have

  
    
   

vividly 3

 

ports of game articles will have
to continue.

What is wanted ; is far more
drastic control \‘over these
exports. ..

In order to make the tighten--

ing up process effective, the
co-operation. of the importing
countries, which are by now
well established as such, must

‘_

4 . 444 7.. 4.44

stories \

. ' ., l:
ortra ed the revolting prat. ,
trices 03’;C the poacher, Lamenta— ii

tions have been forthcoming on .
“ the lack of men and money to
put an end 'to them. But
visualising the physmal 'vast-
ness of the problem, it IS
obvious that it can never be a
possible to make the law fully
effective if applied mainly, as
\is the case at present, from the

killers’ end.

So much tangible success can
be gained with relative case.
if the: same effort lS directeéi
' en .

towards ' the receivers’
which unfortunately happen

to be the Asians’ heard: “grate
usks, horns, 1 es, 5 ms,
Ithsee t- i ‘teeth and hair

  
 

 
 

"inwlllWE

it is the creator; of
market who provrdes

in order to make

the barbed—wire noose.

-Most of. such game articles
are illegally transported across
the ocean by Arab dhOWS for

. smuggled delivery to agents
the other end , and

indirec tly abetting
‘ Slaughter of our game.

It is, however, impracticable
' to prohibit completely the ex—
port of ivory, game skins, rhino

horns etc. A certain amount
regularised killing Will

inevitable in East Africa for a
i there

will always be natural deaths.

1

long time to coine, and

There being hardly any local '
market for consumption, ex-

'; I

..,. ~ , - _, . y
“1:":- . - . '1‘.'." .‘
_ ‘ L f\. . ‘

several- ,
hundred-per—cent illegal proﬁt.

And, because he‘is supposed
to be a civilised man, hls gurlt
is far greater than that of the
wielder of the muzzle-loader, l
the poison-tipped arrow and

their

f them are thus
customers. All 0 the

  
 
   

5

this \
the \
incentive for the illegal killing .

 

at

   
 

of
be

tantial,

  
    
     

be secured i

 
 

problems
gt

Some Of these cpuntries,like

India, ought go be immediately

responsrhge as they have

)parallel probiems of their own.

If we have only a reasOnable
number of reputable licensed
agents who ; alone are autho-

&~——- l.,,......

, , ,gy bringing home I
. to them the grital nature of the.

rised to purchase and export
(including exports on behalf of
private owners) game articles,
and if these agents are made to
keep comprehensive records of
purchases and stocks, and if

dhows and other country craft.

are prohibited from acting as
carriers, a fairly reasonable
amount of control can be
established at this end.

So. far as I am aware, most
of the smuggling takes place
into the Eastern countries, like
India, Pakistan and Ceylon.
These countries also happen to
have a considerable experience

of import and distribution
controls.

The addition of gamearticles
should present very little
difﬁculty.

The next need is to reduce
the demand for these items.
For example, if alternatives
have been evolved for the
manufacture of billiard balls.
there is no reason why ivory
should be. at all permissible for
this purpose.

Many types of personal and
home decorations which rely for
their materials on dead animals
could also be eliminated. Their
use for certain silly “medicines?"

should be strictly prohibited.'

During a recent interview, I
was glad to note that the mind
of the Indian Commissioner in»
East Africa is deeply exercised
on this aspect of the matter.

If he can secure the practical
support of his Government for
applying the ideas mentioned
here, some of which have
come from him, he will have
done a real service to East
Africa.

 

 

IANS OPEN up '
MARKET FOR

AME KILLERS




HUMANE EDUCATION INSTITUTE OF AFRICA.

ACTIVITIES OE
TBEﬁINSTITUTE:

DIRECTION:

PATRONS &
SPONSORS:

ADVISORY
BOARD:

DUTIES OF
BOARD MEMBERS:

VACANCY ON
THE BOARD:

CHAIRMAN:
HGN.TREASURER3

EXECUTIVE
POWERS:

SECRETARIAL
ASSISTANCE:

 

FUNDS:

MEMBERSHIP
SUBSCRIPTIONS:

HEIA

Provisional Constitution

Humane Education Institute of Africa. Short Title: HEIA.

Promotion of Humanitarian Principles in the widest sense -
Compassion for all living creatures, and Reverence for Life.

The Institute is a voluntary and nonuprofit making
organisation, is non-political and non-racial - Unity of
all peoples is encouraged, whatever be their creed, in the
promotion of humanitarian principles.

The promotion of Humane Education throughout Africa —
forming "HUMANE ACTION GROUPS" in schools, and other
institutions, and wherever such Education may be of benefit
to the people.

The Institute shall be under the Direction Of the Founder,
who shall be known as the Director.

The Institute shall have Patrons and Sponsors. These shall
be persons of note, devoted to the principles expressed in
the policy of the Institute.

The Institute shall have an ADVISORY BOARD (hereinafter
referred to as the BOARD), to consist of seven, or more,
FOUNIMTION MEMBERS. Each member to be appointed on merit,
as active in the Humane Cause.

To support, and advise the Director on matters relating
to the activities of the Institute, and particularly in
the matter of responsibility as regards the raising of
funds for the work of the Institute.

A seat on the Board may be declared vacant, should a Member,
for any reason, feel unable to agree with any aspect of

the Institute's working policy. A decision to be taken

by the Chairman of the Board, in consultation with the
Director. Such decision to be submitted to the other
members of the Board for consideration.

A Chairman of the Board shall be appointed.
An Honourary Treasurer shall be appointed.

The Director shall have powers to act for the Institute in
all matters relating to the organisation of its activities,
and in the matter of essential expenditure. Any major
issue to be referred to the Chairman and Board, at the
discretion of the Director.

A secretary shall be employed at the discretion of the
Director.

To be derived from Donations and Subscriptions, and from
Fundrraising activities as promoted by Members.

Foundation Members: Minimum lOO/L. Other subscriptions
to be considered by the Board in view of the varying
currency values in different countries. Some other form
of collecting subscriptions may be determined by the
Board.

 




DANKING OF All funds to be banked in an account in the name of

FUNDS: the Institute, with the STANDARD BANK, LIMITED, City
Drive, Dar es Salaam. Any change to be notified to the
Board, by the Director.

 

HEADQUARTERS
OF THE
INSTITUTE:

Situated where the Director resides. A permanent
Headquarters outside Africa to be decided by the Board.

AFFILIATIDN: The Institute may be affiliated with any similar
organisation overseas.

Meetings shall be held half~year1y. Special meetings
may be held if matters arise requiring full discussion.
Overseas Board Members unable to attend, may appoint
the Chairman, or Director as proxy.

QQMMUNICATIONS: If no immediate reply is received from Board Members
to official communications, it will be taken as 'agreed‘.
Air mail communications are desirable.

ENFORMATION These shall be issued from time to time, at the
REPORTS: discretion of the Director.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 




A Christmas Thought:
—— COMPASSION ——
Knoweth n0 frontiers,
Race or Creed
and
Seeth not Man or Beast
but
A LIVING CREATURE
t'rt NEED.
LS.

 




That every Happiness be yours
This Christmastide
And throughout the Coming Year—
Is the Wish
0f

 




Published by the Humane Education Institute of: Africa
to heln extend its services in Africa.

 




 

 




 

A Christmas Thought:

TRUST —.Lighting the way through
Darkness
Flooding the mind with golden
rays—
Giving to the Sightless the
Serenity and Beauty of

DIVINE VISION

Could but those with eyes to behold
the

Beauty of the Creator’s World

Squander not, so precious a gift
In eovetous Look, Thought or Deed —~—

But ever seek the Light that
Shineth eternally ———
Symbol of Trust,
Love and Understanding.

I.S.

 




 

That every Happiness be yours
This Christmastide
And throughout the Coming Year——
Is the Wish

0f

 




Published by the Humane Education Institute of Africa
to help extend its services in Africa.

 




The New York Public Library
Hudson Park Branch
IO Sevenfh Avenue Souih

presenfs
in ﬁle Li‘Hle Gallery
African Schoolchildren's Posier Ar+

 

July 6 ’rhrough Augusf 28' I964

 




"True goodness requires
us fo respec’r fhe lives
of all crea’rures."
Dr. Alben‘ Schweﬂzer

 




The Humane Educa’rion Insﬁiufe of Africa in
Dar-Es-Salaam. Tanganyikal EasI Africa. sponsored
Ihe All-Africa Con’resf for posIer painling from
which Ihis exhibi’rion was chosen.

The en’rries came from Nigeria. Tanganyika. Sierra
Leone. Ghana, Zanzibar. ’rhe Ivory Coast Nyasa-
Iand. Madagascar. Kenya' Uganda.

PATRONS:

Alhaii Ihe RI. Hon. Sir Abubakar Tafawa Balewal
P.C.. K.B.E.. C.B.E.. O.B.E.. LL.D.I M.P.
(Nigeria)

Dr. Alben‘ Schwei’rzer (Gabon)

Cmdr. Alexander Des’ra. Imperial E’rhiopian Navy
(E'Ihiopia)

George Ivan Smi’rh. Esq. (Uni’red Naﬁons)

Mrs. Hugh John Flemming (N.B.. Canada)

Dr. Eric H. Hansen (Bosfon. U.S.A.)

 

Direc’ror and Founder of Ihe Insiilufe:

Mrs. Isobel Sla’rer. M.B.E.

Exhibirion arranged by:
ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

22 Easf I7+h Sfreef. New York Ci’ry

 




lﬁfth ovenue

 

 

l___t

woverly place

 

@555

west 4th street

 

 

O

 

seventh avenue south

 

Ie roy street 3’0

 

clorkson street

I _\

west houston 0 street

avenue of the americos

 

 

 

\W

6th or 8th Avenue Subway
to West 4th Street. IND.

7th Avenue Subway to
Houston StreetI IRT.

7th Avenue bus to
Clarkson Street.

5th Avenue bus to
Washington Square

Summer Hours:

Monday and Wednesday l2:30-9
Tuesday 9-6

Thursday and Friday I2:30-6
Closed Saturday and Sunday

 




HUMANE EDUCATION
INSTITUTE OF AFRICA

Box 2473, Dar-es-Salaam,
TANGANYIKA, EAST AFRICA

PATRONS AND SPONSORS:

Alhaji the Rt. Hon. Sir Abubakar Tafawa
Balewa, P.C., K.B.E., C.B.E., O.B.E.,
LL.D., M.P. (Nigeria)

Dr. Albert Schweitzer (Gabon)

Cmdr. Alexander Desta, Imperial Ethiopian
Navy (Ethiopia)

George Ivan Smith, Esq. (United Nations)

Mrs. Hugh John Flemming (N .B., Canada)

Dr. Eric H. Hansen (Boston, U.S.A.)

Director and Founder of the Institute:

Mrs. Isobel Slater, M.B.E.
AIMS OF THE INSTITUTE: To teach

and propagate ideas of conservation, comr
passion and care for all living things —
respect for all life—among the rising gen/
eration in Africa. The Institute is a volun’
tary, nonproﬁt organization, aiming through
its programs to unite young people all over
Africa in worthwhile endeavour.

DIRECTOR OF THE PROGRAM: Mrs.
Isobel Slater has lived for 3’)" years in Africa.
She formerly founded and organized the
Tanganyika R.S.P.C.A., and for this work

she received a decoration from H.M. Queen

Elizabeth II.

9W
‘ .

a, .

' ‘1. A. .I

. (mi;
,cv
.‘i ' {P4 qu_}‘. .

g5“!
S?"

’— ’w

. «I?
«a;

f
‘3);

. amass?" 1

4’
.I.

y.
...3‘.“~

t fié‘wﬁi‘

623.,

an

.r‘
3f

15

m.

. 'r '1"—
'r My. ‘

is?

WW: «2 -
«WE‘WWW

~ .9 .i‘
~ .-g It? ’72:“ ~. .
I ‘ - "7.» Jr.“ 376/?

v7” 1, _ ,ﬂ 3. . vv - u' 1 .,.I - , v

(1'1 ' 1" ~ ‘ ‘a . I - . ~.
.. '4

. V v ' . u

W,» .

'1’) '

' kriv‘.
z w. '
I)";

 




 

REASON FOR FORMING AN ALL,
AFRICA INSTITUTE: Mrs. Slater, after
many years’ work in Africa, saw that the
bringing of prosecutions for cruelty, and
the work of patrolling and animal control,
was not the whole answer to the problem
of educating young Africans to a more
responsible and compassionate attitude to’
wards their fellow human beings, as well as
the lesser creatures. She therefore under!
took this major educational effort, which is
on a continent/wide basis. The program
includes promotional enterprises, travelling
and personal visits, lectures to schools, the
preparation and distribution of educational
literature (in the various languages), the
distribution of pictorial material and posters,
and the holding of an annual contest for
young people all over Africa.

HUMANE ACTION GROUPS: Mrs.
Slater encourages and supports the forma/
tion, anywhere and everywhere, of “Humane
Action Groups”, as the best means of unit’
ing young people from all over Africa in the
general program with its high idealism, and
holding their interest and attention while
they receive humane education and see its
practical application.

ANNUAL CONTEST: In the three years
of the Institute’s life, the Poster Painting
Contest, which is open to school children
and older students everywhere in Africa,
has assumed large and signiﬁcant proportions.
Last year over 900 entries were received,
and this contest is favourably viewed by the
Ministry of National Culture and Youth of

 




the Government of Tanganyika, as well as
by the Education Ministries of many other
African States. The exhibition, after going
on display in Danes/Salaam is shipped to
North America where it is shown in Canada
and the U.S.A. The theme of last year’s
contest ——-— “Humane Actions” —— kindness
to fellow human beings, as well as to ani’
mals—reverence for life— aptly expresses
the philosophy of one of the Institute°s most
honoured Patrons, Dr. Albert Schweitzer.
The frequent excellence of the young
people’s work, and the vivid realism of their
ideas, as shown in these brilliantly colourful
posters, is the best testimony that the pro’
gram of the Humane Education Institute of
Africa is “going over” among the young
people, and rapidly bearing fruit.

ADVISORY BOARD: The Institute has

the following overseas friends and sup’
porters:

Chairman: Alhaji Chief Abdullah S.
Fundikira, M.P. (Tanganyika)
Mrs. Roger Stevens, New York
(Representative for U.S.A).
Mrs. R. S. Lambert, Toronto (Rep-

resentative for Canada)

Mr. G. Mgombe (Tanganyika)
Miss F. Perry (England)

Chief Humbi Ziota (Tanganyika)
Mrs. C. Garlake (Rhodesia)

Mrs. L. Flaks (Natal)

Miss G. Gerber (Sierra Leone)

Hon. Treasurer: Dr. I. Gebauer (wife of
Austrian Consul to Tanganyika)

 

 




SUPPORT NEEDED: Won’t you please
help this valuable project by making a
donation to the Institute? Will you become
a member of the Institute, to help, encour-
age and expand their over-all program?

PLEASE SEND YOUR DONATION to:
The Humane Education Institute of Africa,
Box 2473, Danes/Salaam, Tanganyika, E.A.

Or to:

Mrs. Roger Stevens, Animal Welfare Insti'
tute, 22 East 17th Street, New York 3, N.Y.

Or to:

Mrs. R. S. Lambert, '52 Killdeer Crescent,
Toronto 17, Ontario, Canada.

“True goodness requires us to
respect the lives of all creatures”.

— Dr. Albert Schweitzer

 




ANIMAL WELFARE IﬂSTITUTE
22 East 1711: 31.131113
1111' 111k 3.. 11.1.

ﬁ?3¢ 111111 31111?
2?. 1'3: ‘0WW3
:1 v 1 ‘1 1: 111111111.

in." 37. hyggf' fﬁ‘fmﬁwl {9.15

452 113‘

Jpn"

1311137" “13:3 .71.

z;

112211.111 1.11 2.111 1 3.1121; 1 1111 you 1111 11.111: 111.11

. ~11 1:111. 1’11: 11111137: '11, 1:1 11:11:11 2111 3mm strida? 1111
11 1 1:1 1:21 11.: 151:1 1111131 311111 91:31 1.1.3.1 311:1 1.11 1111111:
11111111111111111 111 31.11111 1111, "11 1,111 111111. 31111 1111 .

.. ,. .. ,. ‘ . .. 1111 1111111” - 1111111111: 112::
“1:153‘1‘1. :91 . .: :1.: .. ' . is 1:11;? them 11:11 £031
VII ”K3“ 1 Emit! $6.1, ‘. i 1. ”IQ/{£15 4 5 .:2 I ‘ h mg 15'3- . ‘:&:

NJ ‘1'
1:11.111 GI" 37‘1“)“ H.111"12’I’111f
1111111 1. .:5 71:2..17. g.” the 111:.

. ...,,._.,L. 1 . . _ . +1’ ._
71.11. 1. 1 1; gm :11: 1.111111. .111
l “ “ u- v-"L‘: .2 l. .
1:1: 1. 111111111: 11 1.1.1 1:11.11...
0 u n: "j: » 1.55" ,‘ {361. "it ‘ F‘ v‘\"““ :5 , r 3’ 3 »: ’
“ ’1 . ‘ ‘~ - .= 11. 1111111 11:11 “1.11:1 11313111

11:11” 1': $01110... . 3.3.1.; .5 .mﬂw 311 1321.1 1791- 11111 1.1111.
.121 .. 1111:: 1111'?“ :11 1:. , “111111111... 11111" .. 1
32111 513‘? “"1111 113.” ”1““:111. 11 13‘. 1111
122121113: ”1mm: "*1“ TE: 7“ $1 a

:45- « ...

1:111}..- "“ 1:7: 1mm 11::

.p‘a n

111.1" {3.1 111:1. 1.1

('3

:31!“ 1:111:13 1.111111 (:31? 131-1111 (like? *3?”
11 111131 -1011713 1 1.11, 1.11111 13‘? 1.1 11111

3:”.1 {3: {1911“} :2: ‘11

‘5“!
1
«ind

C.
;, 1?. V013. ‘11:”; 3.3:": ﬁhg}
1113‘

. , .1 "‘
:IY115xfﬁfx ﬁdg: 16W 11: *

 




M .5 I. ,
1.. 4 , .. 6: 2’ ”51117 mvwg, QJ ”F59 ~23 W ‘ a: JWW-w'r‘a ”Fag
‘ 1 “m1. ' mm 2:!!! m 99 W11W In ”‘4?sz ~m1' a“?!

_, mwu mﬂ‘ 319(1375aMW “M72.” , \7 _ _
. ' ‘ .31“ \u(

gm, , JNW-ﬁi'n-Wm: ‘ 1 f 0
W’s/5W :35 Wﬁ7 wuk ngy-E). pf‘e‘r‘f I. 6. .. ( . I ‘ m ‘23. Z?’ . ‘.
y' 5677th 654554 ﬂan ”din/M59 % //fm,

‘ a, gay) gay 34/413 £22,151; :94 géazm, Zn/anéyoézz 59M ,

ﬁnk/m '- {SOBEL SLATER M. B. E.
#9. ,. VJ! €92; ,9 MW '

 




. (%z. . My” «1 «yr/W MW [433 hMM; 2...“, A 1... a. .-
MAX; 5% JIM 25‘ #14423. W ﬁagffzzz, W ‘51" I
., MAG ﬂﬂﬂg‘ a29_i3&dj wﬂ'ﬁ—e W 1:43: .~/me y'all an m  

wa?,Zw‘iﬂwﬂgﬁ“cgarms/z,¢<zza.;ﬁ2m:2, JAM ”(2)4.“ 710‘. an? M, ”W“:
.sz /émmry~j.éln~. 'W\L-—'~ 615; g ”34...? _ V » / I. x

a“

 

 




'3 fa'w yams 13am“ “Wig; \ "

ﬂy W’fwﬂz “Wig #9 Mg“ {1%. ”% ﬂag
‘ 6W 2/" 49 JK/ * . ' ,
t I”??? . 0 977” .37?“ ”0370977 9 guﬂﬁﬂ” ' t '
M A/g: y’é/C; é 4&1 b4? {g/ﬂ’€f«fo’~:¢}( ggﬁmsf £204» ﬂ? . . .I
-. : ~ » A ( ,Myéf3’ / (325:; 37a? a. 57/61,- ""“"‘ 7M)! 57‘“ ' ﬂ?
«6» 7 “a,” ., a :. r

I)
r

M‘ if:

 




% 3.3.3.3333... 3.83.633... 33.. .3

6.33%» W mKKmx3sm3/\KMI AV.MN?33 Ave/3T \FﬂbuMJ/ Wig
33333333333 3.33.3333...- 3..%:535.\33331 E .
i333 33/333331? 3.6%3353R47V E onhEmMHk3
. 333333 3Q?” «333-333;..- 33.1%. n...“- .XkrN-ﬁm 3333\33333H3E3 .WrMMMMSL . .
3.33.... 3H»... :3_\35%3§£3 333.733.3333: .33 3.33.3
Nfggul-aﬂ . .. 0.333% I bend-.3)“ \DVAVNX. mfg:

.J .333... .%..3m333 35333 33.3.33“.

w. igﬁﬂﬁ 33% -&E\3®\M\NWN9§$3
N393: N333. _ , . 33.3 3.330% 0.3333 P\3 3.- .43.?
3.33.335fhkwL-inﬁf AMA/blur «$933333; WNW/IE X... E PL. 333... .

./.. .

§gfih3 ﬁl§ﬁ9§nh\v ikafNP, nggf

9..

33 Q3 wfxin RUN E
9/5“; 3» TEN/w

333333333... . 3:...

 

 




ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
22 East 17th Street
New York 3, New Yark

May 27, 1963

Mrs. Isobel Slater _.
P. 0. Box 2473

Dar es Salaam
Tanganyika, E. A.

Bear I sebel 0 g

I was so happy tea hear from you and ts knew that your ayes are
getting well fast. That is 9906 new absut the poster exhibitian.
I hope that it will be mitten up in Cm- Dumb Animals with phctcw
graphs of same cf the posters, for than you could get iaexpensive
reprints to éistrihute. Mr. William SMIMW wha is View-President
of the Massachusetts @015: and: editor of ﬂu: ﬁumb Animals, is a kiwi
man who mum want 11% help you, I am sure; and perhaps you might
mite and suggeat that to him. Passiblﬁét he might like 116 have a
picture of some of the wizwwiming mater artists, 1:09, ’50 publish
in the Stem.

I'm 30er to Mar cf the 66mm of Matilda Williamson, I dc wish
there were some mad. scarce of revenue for HBIA and will keep leakiag.
Meantime, if yen find a my to Make contributions tax deductible,
that might help.

88 3t W1 shes ,

 




.cnounnnn.

5:56 P/d afazéw .4

:93? ﬁg; 27/4/25;

'I ‘1 "i
. U. ”3.. .
A.

WW
/
Q
m

M
f.
w

,1.-

/ A» -1-

‘i

{7
@aéwczﬁbn

w;

x.

i :9 ('31

-' ’ -"_"v 1' ‘z
n“ .I: ‘5 4:“

J5???“ 736
3‘3 i 7"“

 




22 East 17th Street
232222 York 3, Mm: Yank

May 13, 1%12

Mm. 3252222222223. Minter

IEIA

P a 00 3533‘: 2a?3

Dan 22222 Main. M2229 Tanganyika.

232222 32222291,

ﬁrm, I 222th tn give yam the: 2222222222. of 2:2. 1212222122251” nhijhphm
Km Stewart 9 Box 30773, Maimbi. I knew naming 22:? Min nhipmnntng
whethar they‘re gaod car had, far Mn 2222:2222 2.1.an 22231222233222 an an
empty shipping ctr-nth which nvidnntly, had r22 neatly carried.
mnnk'nyn tn mar mummy. I aims think that nhippern aught tn
ha innpncted £22922: than t9 titan tn 222225 what Mart 2221? pranticnh than
use, $23 12? 8822123 his 2223221232 t2: 3mm in mm 372m. 92“ an asheniatn may
be able tn 232222- hin 32.2me 323222.22th and let us 12:12:22.

I 12223322, by the tinn ynn get thin, yau‘ll be well an the mad
to remvery £22022 WW nperation. Your lettah arrived while I 22223
away an 2. 12222.52; trig; , ear I 222222122 have writtnn semen. I 223223 Wed
the clipping ynu gent vary hmeh 9 and I think it will help thn
8111312319.

Did 3:. with 372222 nhmzt the mangnmnntn 22932222: 222221122 221222223
far 2222.022:ng thn poatnras during July in. a gallery banging tn the
New Yank 222221222 Library? It in in Gmnnwich Village and has .
follcmihg of its man. They had pvnintingn by Japanenh and Mariam
ehildren 1:2. st 32mm. A1220 , in 222229 you. nhnuld ham“ than 22 2222222232.
2211:: mmn 22. gnllnry in Frankfurt, Germany, I mmtinnhd yam“ wank
th her9 and $1222 wan internmhﬁ, 322 PM saint her mm of 219372322 *9 22
3.9th S a i

th‘t wishes and hoping yenﬂl be back tn wk tor thin mimin

$0011.

Ymrs ,

 




 




. HIS Week I would

. like to tell a little
story of courage and
dedication; It is about
a Dar es Salaam resi-
dent who is well known
for her humanitarian
activities. '

My subject? Mrs. Isobel
S l a t e r, director of the
Humane Education Insti-
tute of Africa which she
founded three years ago.
The story? Her recent tour
of African States to spread
interest in the Institute.

In six weeks she visited_12
countries, lecturing, meeting
important people, calling .on
schools, colleges and. organisa-
sations : interested in humane
work and helping to
branches.

This does not sound very
unusual but Mrs. Slate-r made
that trip even though she was
having trouble with her eye-
sight and had to postpone an
Operation. -

“I had to go,” she told me,
“people had been waiting to
see ‘me for a long time. I could

not disappoint them any long-
er ” "

form

During the course of her tour,
during which she experienced
the added shock of being
attacked by a chimpanzee, the
sight of one eye failed but this
did not deter her from com-
pleting her task. .

Now back in Dar es Salaa
she plans to go into hospital
'for the operation.

“But I shall have a lot of
work to do,” says Mrs. Slater
who was formerly executive
director of the T.S.P.C.A. and
who received some of the
world’s highest honours for her
efforts in this ﬁeld. ‘

In 1956 she was awarded the
M.B.E. In 1961 she received the
Albert Schweitzer Award pre-
sented by the United States
Animal Welfare Institute each
year to someone who has per-
formed notable services for
animals. . ,

Later the same year Mrs.
Slater received the. higheSL

 

'1’ ti

1‘

' ”mug/1t for Today

:9

 

 

 

 

award of the British R.S.P.C’.A.
——« the Queen Victoria Silver
Medal.

It is an interesting sidelight
to note that Albert Schweitser
15 a patron of the Humane
Institute together with such
prominent people as Sir
Abubakar Tafawa Balewa of
Nigeria and _ Commander
Alexander D'esta of EthiOpia.

During her tour Mrs. Slater
was delighted with the wel-
come she received in all the
countries and was impressed
with the ,progres-srve attituue
towards humane education.

But: she was perturbed by
the shameful treatment meted
out to donkeys in Morocco,
One of the immediate tasks
she has set herself is to learn
Arabic so she can launch a
poster campaign against this
treatment. .

“I want to translate impor«
tant passages from the Koran
which teach how to look after
animals.”

‘ I? i: ll.
Ulllllliﬂlmi E ' '

It was in Ghana while ex-
plaining that it was wrong for
animals to be kept in cages
that Mrs. Slater was seized and
badly cut by a captive chim-
panzee.

But in addition to the sad
aspects of her tour Mrs. Slater
has many happy memories.
She was particularly impressed
by the Dar e1 Amal (House of
Hope) in Algeria set up by
President ben Bella, This was
launched to take young orphans
from the streets and educate
and train them for a better
life.

The President takes a keen

personal interest and on many

of his overseas tOurs takes

with him one or two boys from

the organisation.

Mrs. Slater was impressed
also by the artistry and
interest in art of people on the
West Coast. She was delighted
to meet some leading artists
and hopes two will be coming
to Tanganyika later this year
to help judge the poster com-
petition for all Africa which is
sponsored annually by the .
Humane Education Institute.

The artists who may come
are Mr. Ben E'nwonwu, adviser
in arts to the Nigerian Govern—
ment and a world famous '
artist, and Miss Olayinka‘“
Burney-Nicol of Sierra Leone.

With characteristic dedica-
tion and determination Mrsw’
Slater is already working onl
this year’s competition in addi—E
tion to the myriad other tasks?
she acquired during her tour. ;

i
/ i

 

£3372
WITH».
,1“ i:’_',
‘I. "l." . f
-. .
.‘x .‘.,-';. .A', "i
" . ‘1“ , .', ‘l‘:
5 .-- _
I *1! “.,~ #-

I John chapter 5, verse 4. ~—

overcometh the world, even our faith.” . _
‘ AN you remember when you ﬁrst\ dived into a swimming pool,

. into the sea?.Most of us were nervous, most of us stood for some :
time on the brink. Suppose we hit our head on_the bottom, and
*were stunned! Suppose we never again came'to the surface! r'

“th ‘.

“This is the victory that

 

It seemed a very risky thing to do. just to throw yourself int 1%

water, and there 'wa . .

 




Animal Welfare Institute
22 East 17th Street
New YO I’k, N's-Yo
10003

April 2, 1961+

Mrs. Isobel Slater

Dear Isobel,

We were delighted with your fascinating letter ~
especially with your remarkable achievement in Sierra Leone.
Advertisements on the availability of African monkeys are
disturbing us, and we wonder if, to your knowledge, any
African nation has any rules and regulations (such as t e
Indian government has) concerning conditions under which the
monkeys may be shipped. For example, the most recent adver~
tisement offered mothers with newborns or newborns alone.
Indian does not permit the shipment of pregnant monkeys, but
these are African monkeys, and so I don't know whether any~
thing can be done about it.

Judge Train sent me a copy of his letter to the
government of Southern Rhodesia about their plan to kill off
the game in one of those tse-tse fly control programs, and
I‘ve written a letter, too, a copy or which is enclosed for
your information in case you have any connections there Who
could be helpful.

I think there may be a possibility that the
posters can be shown at the New York Public Library. We have,
at long last, gotten in touch with a lady there who shows real
interest. Some effort is also being made with regard to the
Detroit Public Library, but this hasn‘t developed very far yet.

All good wishes,

'Yours,

 




 
 

  

(”7 w 2
«' w ézaismavua (Ziﬁéhalawm' pjééuéakdé 57/?92ggada'LJ

a? 6” f M/ grass gm:

%/- gm: .' 0737.5“ eggs 6/4 dﬂéwm/
Lin/anyoéa/ (0919/

Deer Uhristise, ' 27th Msrch 1964.
I've just get ssck,sss hsstes te sees yeu these few lises
te let yeu kses ef the success ef the teur. I'll get sews te s full resert
es sees as I ces ~ in the messtime I'm feces with jihca ef stuff es my
sesk ewsitisgesttesties,sss eeeee ts whet I‘ve ereught esck,is quite seme—
thissL The teur wss a truly terrific success - just whet hes sees seeded
fer se less) Everywhere I wss receives with s wars weleese, st lesst,HEIA
wssl eve: sifficult ceustries like Chess ass Algeria,turses eut trumps.
hussse Educsties hes sees well sad truly wlsstee is the 12 ceuhtries
ceveree es the teur. Is hesrly every place I wss met st sirsert ey Misist-'
ry efficials, she a cer wes always sleced st my sispesal. Pregramses has
sees srrsmses et ssst elaces, she I addresses as svers&e ef 6/7 Celleges,
Schesls,etc., dsily, as well ss sttesdihg ether seetisgs,givisg isstructiey
she erecticsl sesehstrstiehs,etc. ﬁshy ef the ceustries visites,seee help
is she wey er ehether - fer ihstssce, Sierre Leese,isesll-sut te try and
esteslish s ﬁstursl Reserve te try she save their remsisihg Wile Life-I
wss sele te help the Gevt., is this cehsecties es ressrss plans, she else
te step a wicked expert ef mehkeys(fer which the Gevt., received hethigg)
fer lseereteries is the West. But the ceustry seeds eutsise hels fer the
Reserve. I have writtes te Jusge Trsis te see if his ergssissties ceule
hels — E.A. is well — eff sew,ss regsres wile life preserveties, sut ether
ceustries is Africa with sese rere she eeeutiful«shisals require hele ur—
gestly. I have ssvises the Sierra beehe Gevt., te try ass set sese hels
fres the Werls Wile Life Feuhesties. S.L. is a uniquely levely ceustry,sse
ceuls meke es iseel teurist cestre fer the future. I fell is leve with ,
the scehic hesuty, ass the weegle - se very British still,is eutleek ~veryf
refreshisg ts fine is Africs tedsyl Algiers tee,éesperetely sesss hels — 7
the ceuhtry is still sufferisg fres the effects ef the reveluties — hesrly
ell the semestic ssisels were shet, shd new there is e desperate sees te
help previse them with sew sreeeiss steck, if esly s few psirs ef geeks!
The peeple ere se seer,yet, s tremeheeus effprt is seihg seee educstiesally
I was tekes ever mssy scheels,sss these impresses me tremesseusly. Ose,is
psrticuler,where the Presieest hes previsee fer mssy erphae chileres,beys
tskes eff the streets sf Algiers end gives a new life ~ the slace is callee
Der el Assl,(Heuse sf Hese) ems te see these peer lees stsrtisg ts lesrs
ts reee she write,ehe leekisg se clees she well-sehsvieé, really filled me!
with e desire ts help them is sese way u they seserve it. Fres shethnr 1
scheel is Algiers,s Techsicsl Cellege, I hrsught’sack ehe estry fer the y
1964 psistisg Cestest,fres s 20 yeer ele student — e levely humese entry, 3
entitles 'Cresties', she sehe is shee pelishl the hey heisy tea peer te ‘
precure psists. He, hy the wsy,is cryisg his heart eut,te fies the messs
te stuey Art - he wss geihg te stuey Art hefere the revelaties,snd thes
lest everything. My hesrt was ters quite s let with se masy see thiags
that came ts my setice. Still,sll these csuhtries jumped at the chesee sf
Humane Esucsties ~ knewihs se well,thst the yeusg peeple ef tessy can he
tsught the messing sf Kinssess,therefere,they ceuls de se much ts make a
happier future when they heceme the citizens ef teserrew. What a pity

   

 

 
   
   
    
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

    




greet institutiehs like the Fers Feuhdhties,stc., ceule set knew sf se
mehy iueivieuel cases in these see ceuhtries,which ceuls he helpeﬁ te tre-
sehﬁeus eevshtsge — it is ehly geihg threugh the ceuhtries like I hang just
dehe,thet ehe can fine eut se heuy deservisg asses requiring help is the

educatiesel ens cultural fiele.

a

It wes very seed ef yeu,Christihe, te assist Jeyce Lemhert ever the
cest ef the psmphlst she has prihted. Thehk yeu very,very much. I ehly
hepe the pamphlet will bring sheut seme fihehciel help fer the Isstitﬂte -
we heve just eheut eheugh‘memey te lsst ese year, carefully uses: If needs

te,it sight he s useful idea if Dr Hehses's well-endewee @FéﬁﬂiSﬂtiEE weule
take ever the Isstitute's werk in Africa - I ceule still rue 1t. Whet do
yeu think ef thet idea? It is es the eeerds that I will have te meve from
here,seeher er leterl I ceuld well ge te Nerth Africa,where there is much
te he dehe, she it weule make an easier place fer the Africa HQTS. We‘ll
have te seit and see whet transpires in the next few mesths.

A bit ef e nuisance, hut I have te have my ether eye epereted in the
immediate future - well, it will ee gees te heve twe eyes sgaisl I die this
teur eh ens eye - semetimes,quite a sether, hut all_was well — the esly tre~
uhle ehceuhtered,the maulihg I hed frem a gerilla is Ghasal hewever, it ser-
ved e useful purpese,i.e. addressing eueiehces when severed with hahseges&
sticking plesterl merel: see whet cemes ef keeeihg wile creetures is caetiv-.'
ity,etc. I think I secures that peer sesst's freeeemi eut it nearly startee
e hetiehel crisis: The Gheea Ministry ef Eeuestieh was greatly upset ever
the sewage te my persehi hewever,ell I wanted was the release sf the pair
epe. I've quite receveree, esd eie'ht get tetenus,reEies,er enythisg else!

a .11 _ a:
All fQI‘ E@Wo (—First fold here—-—) Y®UT8 ’ 9%

 

 

 

To open out here»

 

'vamw m ammsm

NOUWMH SNVNnH ”WP?” P“ “1"“ 5ﬁlms
‘9esneiS'Q ex;

‘Nwws 53 am
“21172 xea "o'd
'g‘x1e1.sag

.....‘.4.1.3QJ-Q-&-ub{%~[;;7{"m¥9351' 38

'"IIVW LHVNICIHO i8 .LNEIS HO
‘sinitisul exegteﬁ Temtuv

IHDHVHOHHS E18 THAA i1 3300 .L1 :11 f EIHHSOTONEI

'v '3 ‘vmwauw
('V'l '3 'H)

"L'N

ANV NIVlNOD .LON (I'IIIOHS HELLIEH HIV NV

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




CrQ9EEB-EE:

KHEMISTI
A LGER

ADRESSE TELEGRAPH. -.- T E: L. E; P H ON E: S.
ALBERTOTEL- ALGER 63. -OC’ 20 -F-3- -OO 22

”3,0, , 3 cu m AW
68$;th if} M ‘ (/74. £42. ,
., .. :3 (8M1w‘«>

. ”3‘ . I - 6‘“ U :L’km (vL‘ L4
1 _ Gt ,.. ..

‘ QamL H‘Lubvvq . . 3 A

«gm, cm,- ,,.. M" 3% ....,. a,

'{M‘FLAL A, ewgbAQN. (083:4, ,{KJ WA— ”61141—‘4’ ”7X 3) .4 4 \

WW»; M A» Muvm Wm; tux» 31444;, Htu 1”

i C—Qﬂ. L2
Nb>éfel («c-LL L? (Daub? N4, ‘LWULQM
ff“ 5; Q FW (3 (34¢vang \ (IWF GM”? L“ \' L
I»: avid, {M49 05“” """’ ”3‘32“ .
‘ M414:

(X’s-6a hit-:3 .\ ’13:“ £31. ’3 Q
, ,2; "* /’
“L @333 uxb‘mw 4A. W M1" ‘5 “, _ I

slow-yt’lww'? .
W »L. PWfNi/SI H"“ C rec-«m- /[\1z,ou.a~
{ > V¢ P hN—J’W’J” ‘ 17 A.

w rm . A. (5,, «2,, .. M We »
$1493. {FLU- C‘CLyét/‘V‘ WM’W M 6» TT 1,114, V567
MSWTD-x, ﬂwﬁl “ﬂak-g (f? 9"” ‘ 0L W 3%
V ,3 ‘VJVLV 15"”: ED“; cl
j? 1A,, bWuZ/D lixT)‘ [,6 I QM ‘6“.{53 /

ii A Oi M 43..., i ’3 C
/‘i/~'L&”L\‘-= H3“ (3 ‘Q Q A“ A £1451 k. * “3’7:

\ j 96 3
h a 93‘“ C M‘ L‘W @Awf Rag?

Wbﬁiw.pv aANJkWW

am 1

3mm

 




ﬁg p. 33 ,1; 1;. . «Hg/MW :ﬁﬂﬁk
3; § AM . g) p a ,5. ‘. 6/22 aﬁdk‘ 4; 'G/(ﬁéﬂﬁa 3.4“

m 4:9; 39$":- (zyﬁzjﬁ‘ .- - °' W7 {Mﬁ \

(H «J Q HE Q“ “519/wa wastL .k _ ﬁmfsmm ”$2:

(I’m; ___~ -
WW f M if

\- e" ”w .
w“ w 6. M73“ ’L’Wf/

, '
{Lunch/“7 a; W1 - /- hawk»! °

 




SQEEEQ§E

ADRESSE TELEGRAPH. -. T E L E P H O N E S
ALBERTOTEL-ALGER " '_ 63-00-120 - 63 oo 22

, '3’ u ', f, ‘ ”221/121 J / (.14; ,4» Um)?“
41 U; c: ' ' 1 2, ,,
)f (“$1 , r‘. I -‘ z‘ ‘ 4 "LN __ L'vK/Q .

waw~ﬂ%fk
{0.3%me ck CJQLEL , I’m—j

g/MCLJK 1’ \C, ny— 7.1““; £442,“wa

v ”‘f {ﬁ )uww .25; .22-
. 4"“? {prg’éh ,..... MU (ﬁbdwk’ﬁl’ . )3CJ—M9—d [W

gyweﬂ—w“ Wag ’L ‘\

’L (LL/€27 LL
g4— 3:14:83; H542 LL:

4611:4444 {$941.2st £24,

_) My»? pig Q “Pd/U “IA-49 ' (LII/54"») [L2
53" “447 [‘5 [AIM—A 34414.: >
. $51“ {411421 ta {ILA 426 mm 4% Cf (”{112 {V414

““ l I ‘L Cl

L 35: Y?" 4‘1"“ {*4 * LL43 {Aug—4x}: 6.1161» (A M52

‘2‘ SL\Q’ 14‘ C4- a F 4
gﬂwmkv nggy «

ELWQL Mm an ,4,’
89“ r” L” A 5:12“ , ‘~ ‘ fﬁmj‘jxw ’ 0x42,

(ELM , {2,4, $3wa

”’WﬂyK—x ”L 4044.1th V D it: C‘erﬂ M1 :1?—

 




 




 




HUMANE EDUCATION INSTITUTE OF AFRICA

Director's Tour of West and North Africa

February/March, 1964

7th February: Left Dar es Salaam for Nairobi. Stayed overnight
and boarded Ethiopian Airlines Boeing, early morning;8th
February.

8th February: Stopped over at Addis Ababa, Ethiopia, for several
' hours. Made arrangements to spend.a few days in Addis
on return journey, to promote further interest in Humane
Education. The Institute's teaching is already well-known
in Addis, and H.E.'Commander Alexander Desta, commanding
the Imperial EthiOpian Navy, is a Patron of the Institute.

8th February: Left Addis Ababa for Lagos, Nigeria, via Khartoum,
in an EthiOpian Airlines Boeing. Arrived Lagos about
5.30 p.m. Met On arrival by officials of the Federal
Ministry of Education, who hurried through the Immigration
and Customs formalities. Taken to the Ikoyi Hotel where
accommodation had been arranged. Arrival at Lagos was very
pleasant, and the welcome very warm and friendly. A car
was placed at Director's disposal for the Whole of the
visit, with chauffeur. Sunday, 9th February. After dis-
cussion about plans for the visit, Director was taken on a
tour of Lagos.

 

10th February: Laggs Taken to the Ministry of Education to
meet the Minister and other officials. Interview with
,Mr. Wilson of UNESCO regarding the Institute receiving
recognition from his organisation. Ministry of Education
backed the request of the Institute for such recognition.
Mr. Wilson further promised to give wide publicity to the
work of the institute in Nigeria, and elsewhere. went to
British Embassy, and signed book. A meeting was arranged
with the Federal Prime Minister, Alhaji Sir Abubaker
Tafewa Balewa, a Patron of the Institute and who takes a
keen, personal interest in the Humane activities in
progress. Taken to the Lagos Education Department to meet
,Mrs. O. Ligadu, an Inspector of Schools. Made a programme
for school visits to begin next morning. Visited Markets —
horrible places without any idea of hygiene at all - open
sewers, overflowing right through the markets. Same open
sewers overflow all over the place. It was rather grim
to see small children playing by the foul water. Mentioned
this unfortunate aspect, seen in an otherwise pleasant city.
Understood the difficulty was finance, but plans were
'envisaged for a new sewage scheme. THIS IS SOMETHING WHICH
COULD BE ASSISTED BY SOME OVERSEAS FUND, with very good
effect. Understood that old people, and children, were
taken care of by Government. At the same time, ‘Mrs. Ligadu
earnestly needs Funds to start a SCHOOL FOR THE MANY

 




2 i

i ,

i
I

NEGLECTED OLDER CHILDREN WHO HAVE NCxPARENTS TO LOOK AFTER
THEM. THESE CHILDREN MAY HAVE A FATHER OR.MOTHER BUT

UNABLE TO TAKE PROPER CARE OWING TO CIRCUMSTANCES OF VARIOUS
KINDS. er . Ligadu says, "these children become a burden

on goodéhearted relatives and neighbours who have children
of their own to cater for.” A School for the unwanted and
neglected children is a real need, and also where they

could be boarded. Visited the RSPCA offices and animal
shelter. This organisation, supported by RSPCA London, is
doing an excellent job in keeping the city ovaagos clear

of stray and unwanted Dogs, etc. The RSPCA also has
.branches in other towns in Nigeria. Visited a wretched
'inadequate place, called "the Zoo". Fortunately, few
animals are kept there, and the RSPCA gave assurance that
its Inspector kept a keen watch on the Zoo. The Director
strongly recommended that the so—called Zoo should be closed
down, and schools subsequently visited by the Director, were
asked to appeal to the children not to visit the place.

'llth February: Lagos. Visited Queen's College — a large
institution for Girls. The Principal, Mrs. Coker, gathered
all the girls in Hall for the Director to give a lecture
on Humane Education. The Director presented PriZes to
several girls, which they had won from the Canadian showing
of their entries in the 1963 All—Africa Schools Poster
Painting Contest. The Director received a great ovation
at the College, and toured the buildings and grounds with
the Principal, meeting other members of the staff. The
Institute's literature much in demand. Three HEIA STARS
were given to the Principal for monthly award to pupils
showing the greatest desire to be helpful in performing
daily kind actions. Photographs were taken. A Kindness
Club book was also presented to the College Library.

Visited Muslim Training College - Headmaster, Mr. Bhatia.
Gave a long talk to the assembled school, illustrated by
pictures of kind actions to animals and human beings.
Questions were invited. Only one question was asked:—

"Why animals who are dangerous should not be killed?". The
Headmaster then read out extracts from the Koran on kindness.
A very satisfactory morning. It should be mentioned that
the main Colleges and Schools in Lagos are very far apart,
necessitating a lot of time spent in moving from one
college etc., to the other. llth February: Afternoon ~
visited two junior schools in the City, had discussions
regarding a regular programme with Mr. Winful, Visual Aids
officer, Ministry of Education. Several Heads of school
came to visit in the evening for discussion. '

12th February: Lagos Visited Igbobi College at 9 a.m. Gave talk
to the assembled students. Very happy and friendly atmos-
phere. All students promised to be kind to EVERYTHING, and
spread the teachings of the Institute. Very keen here on

 




._3._.

the annual poster painting contest - many prize-winners

in the 1963 contest. Principal most co—operative. Met the
Art master who said, "they would rather have their entries
returned, NOT SOLD!“ Photographs were taken. _Many
questions asked and answered. Visited Government Demonstra—
tion School. Another large and appreciative audience. Talk
illustrated by posters from the 1963 Contest. Questions
asked on many aspects of animal welfare. All promised to

be kind and spread kindness at school and at home. Humane
Action Groups encouraged here. Afternoon: Visited Prime
Minister. Very charming and most interested in all the
Institute's activities. Went to find the home of David
Dale, a very promising young artist, who is very, very
anxious to get a scholarship to study art overseas. He has
won prizes in the annual painting contest each year ~ he
also has done a number of sketches for the Institute's
literature. He has been commissioned to make some Sketches
on the anti-malnutrition campaign. Very sad to see the poor
circumstances of this lad and his family — living on top of
a horrible open sewer, and a ’mountain' of rubbish cleared
‘from the streets, in other words a city dump! and yet he

can turn out beautiful, humane pictures. David was
instructed to send the draft drawings on to the Director at
Ben, Morocco.

 

l3th.February: Morning. Further talks with.the Minister of
Education, Mr. Aja Nwachukwu, and the Permanent Secretary,
Mr. S.O. Awekeye, Mr. A.S. Winful and other~Ministers. IMet
Mr. Ben Enwenwu, the famous Nigerian artist, and Art Adviser
to the Federal Government. Entertained at his home, and
shown many fine pictures and sculptures. Mr. Ehwenwu would
be interested if requested to come to Tanganyika to help
judge the 1964 painting contest. Afternoon: Visited Blind,
Deaf and Dumb School, and Farmcraft School — both excellent
institutions, and good training given to the students to
enable them to help themselves despite handicap. Visited
Girls Modern School. Talked with the girls, and interested
them in forming a Kindness Club. Attended a reception given
by Mrs. Manuwa, one of the Nigerianeducationists. Later,
attended a meeting of the Lagos women's Council — met there
women from.KEnya and Uganda, who were attending a seminar
in Lagos. Heard a lot about the humane activities for
humans, undertaken by the members of the Council. Returned
to hotel very late, and wrote letters of thanks to the
Minister of Education and others who had helped to make the
visit so pleasant and rewarding. Mrs. Ligadu to join
Institute’s Ad. Board. Several Press articles appeared
supporting the work of the Institute, and the Director's
visit to Lagps.

 

 

14th February: Left Ikega airport for Accra, Ghana, at 6.30 a.m.
Ministry car provided. Dahomey visited on the way to

 

 




_ 4 a

Accra. A long stay at Porto Novo, Dahomey, was not
justified, but the Director arranged a short discussion
with some Education and Social Welfare officials, to find
out What progress was being made in connection with Humane
activities in the-schools. This is a small French—speaking
country, and very backward. The people find it difficult
to learn anything without constant pushing. The Director
hopes to find one 'disciple' who will encourage schools
and Welfare groups, to sustain the present interest in
Humane Education. As with many other African countries,
Humane Education literature and propaganda material is
urgently in demand, in large quantities.

14th February: Arrived Accra, Ghana, about 12 noon. Met by
Ministry officials. Taken to the Ambassador Hotel n a very
fine, modern hotel, but very expensive! 'Later had talks
with Ministry officials, and planned a programme. Visited
two schools, talked with several hundred boys and girls.
Humane Education welcomed in Ghana, and Director's visit
seemed to be much appreciated. Inspected the small animals
kept in private sanctuary at the Hotel, in the park
surrounding. All appeared happy and in good condition.

 

15th February: Being Saturday, unable to visit schools, but had
talks with.Mr. Brown (Ghanahnﬁ, Principal Secretary,
Ministry of Education, and another Mr. Brown (Ghanaian),
Chief Education officer, also with Mr. Sackeyfio, Inform-
ation Officer, detailed to accompany the Director in
visiting schools, etc. 16th February: Sunday: Free. Here,
the Director had the unpleasant experience of being
attacked and injured by a large ape — man—size - just
captured and being held in a temporary cage at the back of
the Hotel. This necessitated a hurried trip to the hospital
for injection and dressings. However, after a short rest,
the Director was none the worse from the unfortunate
experience. Next day, 17th February, the Director carried
out the scheduled programme of lectures, which included
.a meeting attended by over 200 Heads of Schools. The
Director, patched up with bandages and plaster, was able to
convince her audience that the keeping of wild creatures
in captivity was entirely wrong, and caused.much unnecessary
suffering to the animals. The Chimpanzee who had attacked
her had only done so through fear and loneliness. She
begged that the ape should be given its freedom and taken
back to the forest. All agreed that this should be done.
(Here, it can be stated that the animal in question, was
given its freedom and there was, in fact, quite a reper—
cussion in several directions, from the incident.) The
Director was very happy about the welcome she had received
in Ghana, and promised she would pay another and longer
visit when opportunity occurred. A very great compliment
was paid to the Director at the Ministry of Education, i.e.
it was said, "that she had brought an aura of happiness into

 

 




the Ministry, which would not be denied!" Fine praise,
indeed, and very, very encouraging in the promotion of Humane
Education. 3 HEIA Stars were given for school awards ~ to

be awarded monthly. ,Mr. Sackeyfio, a very splendid human—
itarian, agreed to join the Institute's Advisory Board, and
act as liaison between the Ministry and the Institute. One
thing rather disturbed the Director, i.e. few dogs were

to be seen in Accra, on asking the reason, she was informed
that dogs were eaten for food. The Director was rather
shocked, and mentioned diplomatically that dogs were regarded
as 'Man's Best Friend', and it seemed odd, to eat them! This
aspect had never been thought of by the Ghanamms! The
Director pondered this problem and came to the conclusion
that perhaps it was better to eat dogs than have them roaming,
starved and diseased, and unwanted, around the town. This

is a problem which is a little disturbing. Accra seems to

be a very clean and well—laid out City, and the people seem
hard-working and anxious to get on with the development of
the country. Old people were taken care of, and needy
children also, were catered for. The President's wife
interests herself in nursery schools. Mr. Sackeyfio in con—
sultation with school Principals, agreed that Humane Action
Groups,as advocated by the Institute, should be formed
wherever possible. Three experienced Headmasters came
forward and offered to be the 'Disciples' of the Institute,
and do everything possible to further the Humane work started.

February: Left Gh a for Abidjan, Ivory Coast. Ministry of

 

Education car took ' “to airport, accompanied by several .
officials. Held a Press conference at Airport before leaving
Very satisfactory. Mr. Sackeyfio assured the Director that
all she had talked about would be remembered by everybody

and the Institute's teachings would be promoted in the schools
and Welfare centres.

Arrived Abidjan about 1 p.m. Owing to delay in mails (every-
where on the West Coast of Africa, there seemed to be an
impossible delay in all air mails ~ even short distances!)
there was nobody to meet the Director, but Hotel accommodation
had been booked. The airport, as with all airports in west
Africa, was miles away from the town, but the Director was
able to get a lift in an airways car. Arrived at the Du Pare
Hotel — also a very nice and modern hotel. The Director tried
to get in touch with the Ministry of Education e but
unsuccessful - there was nobody there! and as only French is
spoken, it was a little difficult getting anybody to under-
stand! However, the Director called at the British Embassy

to get some assistance in contacting the Ministry officials
"who knew of her visit. Nothing could be done that day, but
next morning, the 19th, plans were put into Operation.

 




-5...

19th February: The British Ambassador, H.E. Mr. Shaw, started
early in the morning to get in touch with the Minister of
Education and other officials, and made the necessary.
appointments for the Director — very kindly sending his own
car to take her on the rounds. Interview with the Minister
de l'Education Nationals, M, Dore° Understood that the
Institute's literature was in circulation in the schools,
and much interest is taken in the Concours ~ the annual
Painting Contest. There was one considerable problem in
Abidjan ~ owing to the Ministries being so widely scattered,

. it was impossible to check up the files containing the

_cOrrespondence with the Institute over the past two years.
This entailed endless waiting until some files could be
located. However, discussions proved of some value, and
arrangements were made for the Director to visit some
pschools. As none of the pupils in any of the schools Spoke
a word of English, it was a little difficult for the
Director to talk at length in French. However, with pic—
tures to illustrate the talks, it could be seen from the
response that the subject was understood and was of interest.
Education seemed rather of poor standard in Ivory Coast,
but it was evident that attempts were being made to improve
things. The visit to Abidjan was necessarily short, the
reason for the visit was actually to find out how much
interest had been established as regards Humane Education,
and to see how much progress could be made. Literature
was left with the Ministry, and at the schools. Understood
that entries would be forwarded for the 1964 Painting Con~
test, and a request was made to send further literature
and posters as often as possible. Abidjan is an extremely
expensive place — a cup of tea, costing about 6/—! a simple
meal, at least about 40/-. Needless to say, the Director
did not enjoy many meals! The British Embassy seemed like
an oasis - one of the few British_Embassies where a real
spirit of helpfulness was to be found. The Director expres~
sed her gratitude to the Ambassador and his staff.

 

February: Left Abidjan, Cote d'Ivoire, at ll a.m. en route
to Sierra Leone. Stopped over on the way “Robertsfield
airport, the airport for Monrovia, Liberia ~ this airport

is all of 50 miles from the town of Monrovia. There being
no accommodation available in Monrovia, and due to the
difficulty of fitting in planes, the Director did not make

a long stay here. However, two teachers were at the airport
to meet the Director and collect some Humane literature which
will be used to try and promote more interest in this form
of education in the few schools developing in Liberia. This
is quite a backward country, educationally, and most of the
teachers appear to be Peace Corps volunteers from the U.S. -
transport facilities for travelling in the country are a
serious handicap. Later, the flight was continued to Sierra
Leon, a very bumpy and unpleasant trip due to bad weather
conditions on the West Coast. Arrived Sierra Leone

 

 




- 7 _

very late. Met by several Education Ministry officials,
and an officer of the Social Welfare Ministry. A very
warm welcome, and passage through immigration and Customs
made quickly and easihn A very interesting airport for
Freetown (Sierra Leone) situated about 20 miles away, and
requiring a sea journey of about one hour in a large
ferry boat, taking two buses, and two cars on one trip.
The first sight of Freetown was enchanting in the night
light. Freetown is backed by hills dotted all over with
residences, and twinkling lights were most intriguing.
A.Ministry car took the Director and reception party from
the airfield to Freetown ~ on arrival there, the Director
was taken direct to the Government Best House — a
charming place on a hillside - where other officials
waited to welcome the V.I.P! The Director was given a
copy of a provisional programme to cover her week's stay.
There was a very busy period ahead!

February; A car placed at the disposal of the Director

 

arrived at the Rest House at 8 a.m. to take her to the
Ministry of Education to meet the Minister, Mr. Wurie, ,
and Education Officers. Miss Olayinka Burney—Nicol, i
Government Artist, was detailed to accompany the .
Director on all official engagements. It was interesting
»the Director's Visit coinciding with that of the Prime
Minister of Trinidad and Tobago, as it all contributed
towards making the Director’s visit very colourful. Every
day in the news on Sierra Leone radio mention was made of
the Humane Education Institute, and the Director's engage—
ments for the day. The first day was spent in meeting
Ministers and other officials for discussions, and calling
on the various public institutions, among these being the
British Council and City Library, both very lovely new
buildings, and gathering information-as to the country's
needs. The first thing to cause the Director much dismay
was the sight of hundreds of starving, unwanted and
diseased dOgs running wild everywhere, eating out of
dustbins, and causing much commotion. ENidently nothing
had ever been done in Freetown over this problem and the
dog position was as bad as it could be. Without doubt,
this was the first thing the Director felt obliged to
bring to the notice of Authority. Later in the day the
Director attended a meeting followed by a Reception of

the newly formed Humane Society of Sierra Leone — this

had been accomplished through copious correspondence during
the previous few months. The Director spoke bluntly about
the impossible dog p0sition in the City and called on

all members of the Society to get busy and_start a form

of control to clear up the place. The obvious difficulty
being that there was no place to house the collected dogs.
This all called for the making of plans and a prospective

 




—8-

visit by the Director to the Mayor and City Council.

All members agreed to do all possible to find a solution
to the problem. Miss Grace Gerber and Mr. FeyimCole,

two of the leading members of the Humane Society, had been
in the habit of picking up distressed dogs and pups, and
keeping them at their homes ~ a very temporary solution
but most praiseworthy on the part of these two members.
As money for this type of public service was completely
lacking, the Director decided to appeal to the RSPCA
London for funds to help erect a shelter for unwanted
dogs. (Later it was learned from London that some
assistance would be forthcoming when more was known about
the new Humane Society — this matter is still in the
correspondence stage). Goats too dismayed the Director -
no care at all — the poor creatures were to be seen
lying in streets under the hot sun with legs tied or
short string tying;them to posts or any convenient struct—
ure. It was evident that the good people of Freetown
had never been conscious as to the needs of goats and
dogs! The whole picture called for much lecturing on the
part of the Director, particularly emphasising the value
of goats milk in the fight against malnutrition. The
consciousness of the peOple was very soon fully awakened
as to the simple care and needs of these humble domestic
animals. Hens too, all over the roads provided another
hazard to motorists — in fact the car in which the
Director was travelling skidded into a tree in trying to
avoid hens on the road. Clearly this problem had to form
the basis of all lectures to schools in the following days.
The next thing that dismayed the Director concerned the
information collected as regards Wild Life. Sierra Leone
is rich in wild life, but little has been done to protect
or preserveit. This again, required a great deal of
discussion with the Ministry of Natural Resources, who,
happily, agreed with all the Director had to say, and was
prepared to immediately start on plans for the establish—
ment of a National Park, and to draw up new laws fer the
protection of wild life. Monkeys, the Director found

out were being exported to overseas laboratories in
thousands ~ with no benefit financially to the Government
at all, a purely private commercial concerno This was
something else that had to be stopped. The Director
pointed out the loss to the country and the unnecessary
suffering caused to the monkeys concerned. During her
visit the Director spent a great deal of time in consult“
ation with the Minister for Natural Resources, and the
Chief Conservator of Forests.‘ The Director promised she
would try to find sources of financial help from overseas,
So that the Government could proceed with the plans
projected to protect and conserve the wild life of the
country, (The World Life Fund in London has been
interested in these plans, and some help is probable).

 




-9...

A Press conference was held for the sole reason of
awakening public consciousness as to protection of wild
life, and on the care of domestic animals. All this
covered the first three days of the visit — 21st — 23rd
February, and with various meetings with the Humane
Society.members.

February: The Director left by air for Bo upcountry early

 

in the morning, and after visiting a number of Colleges
and Secondary schools, returned to Freetown at night.
Animal conditions did not seem so bad up—country as in
Freetown the Capital. That night at 8.30 the Director
gave a talk on the work of the Institute at the British
Council. Much interest was expressed over the All—Africa
Schools Foster Fainting Contest, and it was hoped that
many entries would be ready for the 1964 contest.

February: The morning was spent visiting schools and

 

giving talks to the students assembled - the schools
included the ‘Annie Whlsh.Memorial School; Freetown
Secondary School for Girls, St. Joseph's Convent School,
and the Prince of Wales School. In the afternoon the
Sierra Leone Grammar School was visited, followed by a
visit to the Milton Margai Training College for Teachers.
The lectures given were greatly appreciated, according to
the response observed, and the questions asked.

Reception in the evening.

February: Visit to Fort Loko by car — a long dusty

 

journey but very rewarding. All schools in this district
keenly interested in actively promoting humane activities.
Returned to Freetown late afternoon and gave a broadcast
interview at the Radio Sierra Leone studios.

February: Last day before leaving. Very busy day - in

 

fact hectic. Morning was spent with Ministers for final
discussions as regards the many plans projected, both as
regards animal care, protection of wild life, and humane
education in all schools and colleges. Visit to a
wonderful Home, the King George VI Memorial Home for old
and disabled men and women. This was a very pleasant
experience — the wards, separate, for men and women were
very well kept and the inmates very happy, many of them
doing handwork. The Home has done a lot to rid the
streets of Freetown of poor and undesirable beggars. As
the Director's time was so short it was not possible

to visit the Childrens' Home, but it was understood that
the children were also being well cared for. The
Director remarked " it was most satisfactory to see what
was being achieved for human beings. Now the time was
ripe, in fact overdue, for the same care to be given
where animals were concerned", and reminding her listeners

\

 




_ lO _

that animals were necessary for the health and economy
of the peOple ~ therefore they all require care and
attention. Fully agreed.

Afternoon. A visit was made to Fourah Bay College - a
very famous institutiOn in Africa. The college is
perched on a hilltop with glorious views from all
directions, the whole of Freetown, its beautiful coast-
line and sea extending for hundreds of miles North and
South. The Director was received with a warm welcome

by the Principal of the College, Dr. Davison-Nicol, and
met many of the teachers and students.' It pleased the
Director very much to learn_that some of the teachers

had formed a small society for animal care, in order that
the pets belonging to staff members would be taken care
of during the leaves of owners. Later in the evening

the Director attended a Reception given by the members

of the Freetown Humane Society. Omitted to say that
before going to Fourah Bay College, the Director attended
by invitation a meeting of the City Council to give a
talk on the problem of the dogs, goats, etc., uncared for
in the City. At first the Mayor and Councillors were
inclined to be 'unfriendly' at an 'outsider' criticising
such conditions in the City, but in a short time they
became very friendly and co-operative, thanking the
Director for her valued assistance and advice. Tea was
served and the Mayor pinned a crest badge of the City

of Freetown onto the Director's dress amid cheers!

 

February: Press conference and a visit to the British

 

Information Office (Where the Director met an old
acquaintance from Tanganyika, an ex D.C. now Director of
the British Information Centre, Mr. G. Baker) followed by
a hasty round of 'goodbyes'. The Director left about

ll a.m. by car for the trip to the Airport on route to
Senegal. The Director left Sierra Leone with regret —

the peOple were all so friendly and kind, and so
delightfully British in outlook, although an Independent
State. The country is a particularly lovely one, hills
coming right down to the sea, beautiful scenic views

and lovely houses. Freetown still has its 'Hill Station'
reached by a perfect scenic road, Winding up and up and
with each turn in the road a more enchanting View was to
be seen all the time. A country welleworth being developed
into a veritable 'Tourists Paradise'. The Director was
seen off at the airport by numerous officials and newly—
found friends. Plane left at 1.30 p.m. — a very interest—
ing and pleasant flight to Senegal, passing low over
Conakry — an interesting looking town, capital of Guinea.
On the way to Senegal, the plane stOpped over at Bathurst,.
Gambia, where the Director had arranged to be_met by some

 




~11...

educationists interested in trying to introduce Humane
Education to the schools° Gambia, like Liberia, is still
in an undeveloped state, and education backward. A
supply of Humane literature was handed over by the
Director and it is hOped that a little progress will be
made.

Arrived Dakar, Senegal, at 6 p.m. Here a difficulty was
met — no transport to the town about 20 miles away and
unable to get any local currency at airport - result -
no money to pay for a taxi! The problem was ultimately
solved by a kind American coming to the rescue with

some dollars! One difficulty travelling through so many
countries was the currency problem — every country has a
different currency, and one country won't take the
currency of another! so if it was impossible to cash a
travellers cheque at an airport on arrival, the result
meant 'no money'! However, the Director managed fairly
well to 'talk‘ her way through until funds were obtain-
able.

February: This was an awkward day, Saturday, to try and

 

contact the Ministry of Education, but the Director
hurried around and eventually found a junior Minister

with whom she had a discussion. He promised to see that
the educational literature was circulated in the schools.
Senegal had just started to take an interest in meane
Education, but the progress did not justify the Director
making a long stay there — a terrifically expensive

place ~ good hotels, prohibitive! Schools in Senegal

are very backward, but gradually developing. The

Director was assured that efforts would be made to promote
interest in humane education - there, the matter had to

be left for the time being. The week—end made it
extremely difficult to make worthwhile contacts. It was
m0st difficult to get any money in Dakar — all Banks
closed, and hotels didn't want to cash travellers cheques!
Quite a predicament! Had to manage on some 'borrowed'
dollars. Dollars are accepted everywhere. Tried British
Embassy but no help! Quite relieved to feel that depart—
ure next day was near at hand. Did not like the hawking
of lovely highly coloured birds in the streets — made a
note to protest about this practice.

 




lst.March: Left Dakar airport for<kmmmlanca, Morocco. Most hazar—
dous flight — plane packed ~ a football team on board did
everything except play football up and down the aisle: This,
the most 'third class' air trip of the lot: But interesting
flying over the Sahara and noting the great work being done by
planting trees ~ in the desert. Long lines of trees looked
like lines of human beings from the air. A very bumpy journey.
On nearing Casablanca, got caught in a thunderstorm and pour—
ing rain - very unpleasant. Plane could not land at
Casablanca the first time of trying — circled around for what
seemed hours. Finally landed in pelting rain, and at 10.30
p.m.' A wet welcome. After a somewhat hectic struggle to get
through formalities, managed to get a taxi to the city and an
hotel for the night. Found a small but pleasant hotel, the
Lausanne. Left next morning for Rabat.

 

2nd March: To the Director's dismay, on reaching Rabat, all
Government offices were closed — a great three-day festival
had started, "La Fete du Trone" — some celebration to do with
'the King. As nobody could be Contacted, decided to push on
to Fez ~ accordingly rang Dr. Rousseau at The American
Fondouk, to expect arrival towards 6 p.m. Weather cold and
wet ~ warm boots and clothes had to be unpacked! Was met by
Dr. Rousseau on arrival in Fez and was taken to his home,
before going to the hotel. A very pleasant meeting with Dr.
Rousseau and his wife. Arranged to meet early next morning
for discussions. Here it should be said, the Director was
appalled all the way from Rabat to Fez (by bus, a wonderful
insight into conditions of animals and peOple in Morocco) by
the sight of so many hundreds of sick—looking, lame, and
overburdened donkeys and mules. Definitely something to
demand action. '

 

3rd March: Dr. Rousseau called at the hotel about 9 a.m. and took

is Director to the American Fondouk. Firstly, a general
survey of conditions as regards animal care a secondly a
general inspection of the Fondouk and its great work. The
Fondouk shelters hundred of sick and distressed transport
animals, and gives them full veterinary care and treatment,
keeping them at the Fondouk until fit to be handed back to
the owners. This is a wonderfully splendid, humane service,
for without the Fondouk, many of these poor animals would
surely die. It is dismaying to know that owners of these
tranSport animals are in general, cruel and neglethul of the
animals that help them so much, in fact, in a Country like
Morocco, owners are entirely dependent on donkeys, mules and
horses, but particularly donkeys, for all their transport
needs. Ignorance, and age-old tradition, could be the cause
of so much cruelty to the animals. There does not appear to
be any Humane Education in Morocco at all, and it seems that
the time is long overdue for a Humane Educational campaign.
The owners will have to learn, in a kind way, of course, that
it would be to their own benefit, to consider the needs of

 

 




_ 13 _

their hard-working little animals. From the Fondouk, Dr.
Rousseau, along with one of his assistants, an Arab, took
the Director on a tour of the souks. The Director was
appalled at the suffering so evident. She could not refrain
from ejecting great fat men from their seats on the backs

of struggling and lame donkeys. Strange as it seemed, these
people sensed they were doing something wrong, but naturally,
in their ignorance couldn't be sure of what! many of the
steep alleys in the souks are cobbled, and covered in slime,
with the result, the poor labouring animals could not get a
foothold at all. It was a pitiful sight, and left the
Director literally, fuming. Clearly a propaganda campaign
is essential. The Fondouk can hardly be eXpected with all
its long hours of life—saving work, to undertake an educa-
tional campaign - this must surely be promoted by a separate
humane unit. Goats, too, seemed to be roughly used, and
uncared for ~ and hens carried in bundles half~dead! Shock—
ing picture. The entire day was spent in this field of
observance, and protest, against the so—obviously unnecess-
ary cruelty and suffering.

3rd march: Started another day of inspection, particularly the
markets, a real disgrace for sheer neglect and, cruelty to
living creatures. Due to the celebrations going on for "La
Fete Du Trone", the markets and souks were crowded with
thousands of people, and likewise animals. One particular
event, again, aroused the wrath of the Director, this time
concerning horses. This event is known as a "Fantasia",
where poor horses, in most cases thin and miserable-looking,
were made to charge across Open spaces, with a wild rider on
the back, to the accompaniment of terrible cries and shots
from fearful—looking guns. The horses must have been terri-
fied ~ even if this was supposed to be a traditional Spect—
acle. The whole show was horrible, as far as the Director
was concerned. Interspersed with all the inspections, the
Director and her companions, the Rousseaus, were regaled with
numerous cups of sweet, mint tea, at various points through-
out the souks. This is a very important custom, and such
hospitality cannot be refused, these teandrinking ceremonies
are a serious part of Moroccan celebrations. .

 

4th march: Another day going the rounds of inspection. Later,
visited a Home for disabled children, where celebrations (to
amuse the children) were also in progress. After some final
discussions with Dr. Rousseau on how to start a humane
campaign, the Director was ready to leave Fez next morning.

 

5th march: Left Fez by bus for Oujda, en route for Algeria.
Arrived Oujda in the evening. Same thing again, all along
the way, nothing but overburdened and lame, neglected animals.
Spent some time examining the animal position around Oujda,
but found nothing heartening as regards animal care.

 




- 14 -

6th March: Left Oujda about 9 a.m. by car to cross the border
into Algeria, and first stOp, to visit a Quaker settlement
at Tlemcen. This was all very interesting, and splendid
work is being done by these American Quakers for human
beings. The Director persuaded the staff there to try and
help unfortunate animals as well. This was agreed. After
a few hours spent at Tlemcen, the Quakers' car, going North
with patients, took the Director on her way to Oran and
Algiers. (The Quakers kindly sent a car to pick up the
Director at Oujda that morning). Arrived Oran, late at
night.

 

7th March: Spent some time contacting a few interested peOple in
Oran in connection with Humane Education, and left litera~
ture to be distributed. This is the first time the Institute
has introduced its humane teaching into Algeria, and the
Director was not certain in the initial contacts of what
the response would be. The people of Algeria, particularly
the children, are still suffering from the sad effects of
war, therefore not readily open to teachings of any kind.
Animals seemed few in Algeria, on asking the reason for this
lack, the answer was "all our animals were shot during the
war, and we have not been able to build up herds again, or
procure animals for transport work". Very sad. Later left
Oran for Algiers and arrived late at night. Being Saturday,
the Director decided to rest a little until Monday morning.

 

8th March: Day of Rest.

9th March: Started out to find the Ministry of Education, found
it very, very difficult. Went from one Government Depart—
ment to another — couldn't get the correct directions at all.
Walked many kilometres, often accompanied by policemen trying
to show the way! All day this sort of thing went on.
However, some information regarding various conditions in
the country was obtained from the different places of call.

 

A somewhat profitless day.

10th March: Armed with another lot of addresses the Director
started out again - all Government Departments seemed to be
many miles apart, and in different directions. The Director
decided to go to the British Embassy to get some help in
locating the Ministry of Education. Found the position
there hepeless! Not a good advertisement for British effici~
ency! Finally took a taxi to a likely district ~ found there,
the Ministry of Information up flights of stairs, turning and
twisting! Eventually found an official who tried to be help—
ful, but not much! Anyway, spent some time with the official
artist working there — a Negress from America. Unfortunately
she couldn't direct II to the Ministry of Education. This
about ended another profitless day. The Director determined
to make a final eXpedition next day! The Balais de Govern—
ment, the Cabinet Offices, the Foreign Office, the Ministry

 

 




_ 15 _

of Labour, and other odd places had all been visited, looking
for the Minister of Education! This was all an "education"
for the Director! What a difficuit place to get ahead.

llth March: Three days left in Algiers to make contact with the
correct Ministry! Lo, and behold! a telephone message out
of the blue, to say that the Minister for Education was avail~
able, and would like to see the Director! He had evidently
heard that the Director was trying to find him! However,
when it came to finding the right place, again, there was
difficulty. The Director in some deepair, was obliged to take
another expensive taxi ride, seemingly for many miles, and at
last arrived at the Ministry of Education! Everything then
became satisfactory and pleasant. The Minister, Sheriff Ben
Kasum, received the Director with pleasure, and gave her a
warm welcome ~ in French! He couldn't Speak English. In
order to expedite the discussions required, the Director
asked for an interpreter to help things along. This was
readily agreed, and soon Madame MartinuHorwitz (an English-
Speaking Frenchwoman) arrived in the office. Everything then
went exceedingly well. Arrangements were quickly put in hand
by telephone, for a programme for the next day, and a car,
along with the interpreter, was put at the disposal of the
Director. Pity so little English is spoken in Algerie! The
Director's French is passable, but not up to lengthy talks
and complicated eXplanations! Nor to lecturing in schools!
After leaving the Minister's office, the Director had a long
discussion with Madame Martin—Horwitz, and was able to explain
all the information as regards Humane Education, to be passed

on through her (Madame).

 

12th March: Start of a very busy and profitable day. Car and inter-
preter arrived at hotel about 8 a.m. — the first engagement was
to meet a number of school Inspectors, gathered together in the
Offices of the Chief Education Officer. This proved a most
useful meeting ~ the Inspectors were unanimous in their keen
interest in the promotion of Humane Education in the schools
something new in Algeria, but considered of great importance
a country slowly recovering from the ravages of war. A pro—
gramme was drawn up for the afternoon and for the next day.
There was real regret that the Director had had to waste so
much time, before she had found the Minister of Education, and
now, there was little time left. .Two large Colleges were visi—
ted during the afternoon, and much time was spent in discussions
with the Principals, and many of the students — all appeared to
be very, very keen to start on the Humane Education programme.
The formation of Humane Action Groups appealed to the instincts
of the students. The day ended, with a partially exhausted
Director, and a completely exhausted interpreter!

 

13th March: The last day of the Director's stay in Algiers. Car
arrived at 8-30 a.m. with Madame Martin—Horwitz and two
Inspectors of Schools. First call was made to the Technical

 

 




-15..

Lycee for Girls — a huge place, and most efficiently run.
Here, the girls, several hundreds, were given a thorough
training in all forms of commercial and household management.
But, of course, Humane Education was unknown. The Principal
was very interested and right away encouraged her students to
take part in all discussions held in various departments.
Agreed to have weekly talks on the subject. After some
refreshments with the Principal, the Director and party went
on, a long distance away, to the Technical College for Boys.
Here again, a splendid Institution with many departments -
all directed by Professor Hacini, who turned out to be a
friend of the Algerian Ambassador recently posted to
Tanganyika. It was almost lunch time, so the Director and
party were.invited to have lunch with the Professor and some
of his staff. All very interesting, and a useful medium for
discussing the benefits to be derived from Humane Education!
After lunch, the tour of the College continued, and many
students were interviewed. One Student was greatly interested
in the Institute's Poster Painting Contest, and asked if he
could enter a picture? The Director was very pleased, and
told the student, she would take the entry back with her, if
he finished it in time. This was agreed, and he would bring
.the picture to her hotel. The Director went on to another
large Teachers Training College for women. This was again,

a beautiful old mansion house turned into a College. After
touring the buildings, and meeting many of the students, the
Principal agreed that Humane Education would seem a valuable
subject for the young teachers in training to add to their
studies. The students were very keen to learn all possible
on the subject of "How to be Kindu and to spread the teaching
of Kindness and Understanding everywhere they went. All very
satisfactory. The Director was sorry having to shorten her
visit to this important institution, but time was running
short and there was another place to visit, some way out of
Algiers. The Director and party, left for Dar El Amal (House
of Hope), a very important project of the President Ben Bella.
This being a Home where some hundred young boys, who had been
taken off the streets of Algiers, were given a new chance of
life. These boys were mostly orphans, and had lived on the
streets, being shoe—shine boys or beggars. The Director was
very much impressed with the Splendid project — the Home was
situated in a lovely place, not far from the sea, and con-
sisted of small chalets, large classrooms where the boys
eagerly learned to read and write under the tuition of
volunteer teachers - there was also a fine assembly hall and
club for recreation, the grounds were ample and laid out for
football and other games - the whole organisation was run
most efficiently under the management of a very kindly Madame,
a real mother to the boys. One other thing impressed the
Director, that was the delightful uniform worn by all boys —
this consisted of pale blue long pants, with the same colour
jumper top. .Most attractive. The uniforms were presented to

 




- 17 _

the Home by a firm in Algiers. The Director was informed .
that every time the President went away on an official v1s1t
he took one or two of the boys with him, thus helping them
still_further to learn the ways of good behaviour. The
Director felt that this excellent project was one that

should be helped in any way possible. It was interesting,
too, to note, that stray animals, dogs, and cats were also
adepted by the Home, and given a very good life there! The
Director was grateful for the privilege accorded her, of
being taken to Dar El Amal. Finally, having agreed to keep
Algeria supplied with Humane Literature, etc., and to keep
in mind the great needs of the Country, the Director, very
reluctantly, had to leave things at that stage, as she was
due to depart for Cairo next day. A number of Education
Ministry officials came to the Hotel in the late evening

for a final talk, and to bid:farewell. All were anxious

that the Director would again visit Algeria, and make a long
stay — Humane Education was felt to be much needed in the
country. Here, the Director would like to say, that if it
could be possible, some overseas organisations would be doing
a big service for Algeria by supplying a few domestic animals,
such as goats and sheep, for breeding purposes, to help build
up the country's livestock needs.

14th March: The Director left by air for Cairo, at 7 a.m. En
route, stopping at Tunis, Tripoli and Benghazi. Opportunity-
was taken to inquire into conditions as regards animal care,
etc., in these places, and it would appear that there is
much Humane work to be done all along the North African coast,
not to mention the interior. However, Tunisia and Libya,
seemed to be well administered countries, and making rapid
development.

 

Arrival at Cairo, very late, presented a lot of diffi-
culty, due to the incredible inefficiency of the Airline con-
cerned. The Director was dismayed to find that no hotel
reservation had been made for her, nor further flight bookings
made. As Cairo was teeming with thousands of tourists —
mostly American, en route to Abu Simbel (to see the ancient
monuments there, before being swamped by the Dams being built
on the Nile) ALL hotels were FULL, bursting at the seams!
After great difficulty and delay, a kindly official of another
airline, KLM, found hotel accommodation for one night only,
and undertook to try and make onward air reservations.
Although the Director had no set plans for contacting Educa-
tion officials in Cairo, she intended to find out whether the
conditions as regards animal care had improved since her last
visit there.

15th March: Being Sunday, the time was Spent in frantically looking
for another Hotel, to carry through until air bookings could
be made, for Addis Ababa, on the way back to Nairobi and Dar
es Salaam. This search went on all morning, and included a

 

 




~18—

visit to the defaulting Airline - the U.A.A. After some
plain speaking, a fairly satisfactory solution was found,
and the said airline agreed to meet the expense of the
Director's hotel accommodation for the night of arrival in
Cairo, and to find other accommodation. This was eventually
accomplished in the afternoon. Air booking to Addis Ababa
was fixed for the 17th.

16th March: The Director started out early to observe animal con~
ditions, and called on City officials. She found that much
progress had been made, in the city of Cairo itself -
Government had passed new laws as regards transport animals,
and had built a new animal hospital where unfit horses,
mules, donkeys were taken off the streets, and put into the
hospital until fit — the owners being fined, and also liable
for heapital costs. Outside the city, the position was not
so good - animals were seen to be tied up by short lengths
of rope, to trees by the roadside, or anywhere handy. Going
out farther to the Pyramids - once a bad spot for neglected
animals — the Director found that new Government regulations
were in force as regards the camels, horses and donkeys
employed to carry tourists around the Pyramids - every owner
had to keep his animals in fit condition, and to house them
in a special caravanseri every night. The result was
apparent « the animals all looked in excellent condition,
and owners appeared to be treating them well. This was all
a definite improvement than was seen a few years back.
However, the Director decided that some action would be
required to bring the condition, and housing, of animals in
the Villages outside Cairo, up to the same standard of well~
being.

 

l7th March: The Director left Cairo by air at 3 a.m. for Addis
Ababa, Ethiopia. Here, it is stated, the Director reluct—
antly had to cancel her pre—arranged stay of some days in
Addis Ababa, due to experiencing some little difficulty with
her eyes. However, it was arranged that she would stop over
in Addis some hours for discussions, and take the next plane
on to Nairobi en route for Dar es Salaam. The Institute's
work is well—known in Addis Ababa, and keen interest is taken
in promoting humane actions. The Director was met at Addis
Ababa airport by H.E. Commander Desta, a patron of the
Institute. She was delighted to hear that the Government
had taken all horses off the streets, and made it a law that
no horse drawn vehicles would be allowed - this presented a
big step forward ~ these poor animals were usually in very
poor condition, and never well treated. Other improvements
are expected to follow where animals are concerned. It was
also learned that more interest is being taken in the pro—
tection of wild life of the country, and the school children
are being taught to be kind to all living creatures, and to
promote the Institute's teachings actively. The Director

 

 




-19...

hopes to make a special visit to Addis, to tour the country,
at a later date — this being a fairly short journey by air
from Dar es Salaam. Commander Desta is a very keen Patron
of the Institute, and a great humanitarian. The Director
left later for Nairobi, where she stayed overnight, before
leaving for Dar es Salaam on the 18th March. While in
Nairobi, several schools were contacted in connection with
entries for the 1964 All-Africa Poster Painting Contest - a
good response is anticipated. Humane Education is a popular
subject all over East Africa.

18th March: Arrived back in Dar es Salaam ~ End of Tour.

 

Points for action, from the Tour:

Lagos, Nigeria - requires help in establishing a Boarding
school for neglected children of school—going age. A young
humane worker for the Institute, David Dale, 17 year-old
fatherless student, with decided artistic talent, is terribly
anxious to find the means to study art. A scholarship from
an overseas source would be the answer, thus giving the boy

a chance to become an artist. He has won prizes each year in
the Institute's Poster Painting Contest.

Freetown, Sierra Leone — requires financial assistance to
build a Shelter for stray and unwanted dogs, and the provision
of manager for the Shelter, which could, at a later date, add«
a few boarding kennels for dogs when owners go on leave. At
present these dogs are just left on the streets to fend for
themselves. Financial assistance is also required to help the
country to develop its natural resources, particularly, wild
life. The attention of the World Wildlife Fund has been drawn
to this great need.

Morocco, North Africa ~ A full scale campaign is required in
Humane Education, to try and teach the peOple animal welfare,
and improve conditions for transport animals; at present the
whole position is appalling with thousands and thousands of
animals suffering through, what could be termed, 'age-old'
traditions, involving shocking cruelty to transport animals.

Algeria, North Africa - This country needs a great deal of
assistance to help the people recover from the after-effects
of war and want. The country requires livestock urgently.
Nearly all the animals were shot during the war, and this has
created hardship, from many aSpects. Goats for milk, and
sheep are Specially needed. Also transport animals, such as
donkeys to help the poor farmer bring his crOps, etc. to the
markets in the towns. This is a particularly good time to
push on with the promotion of Humane Education, to prepare
the people, especially the young people, in the proper manner
of keeping, and caring for animals, so that when the time

 




_ 20 _

comes for the country to possess livestock again, there will
be a better chance for such animals to be well~cared for.
Another worthy cause to assist would be the Home at Dar El
Amal, for orphaned and homeless boys. It would be a kind
gesture to help provide these boys with simple requisites.

It has been suggested that some well—to—do schools overseas
might like to take an interest in Dar El Amal, by getting
their pupils to make up small useful gift parcels for the
boys at the Home, containing toilet articles, or books, games,
sweets, etc. Always remembering that these boys are on their
own, with no parents to care for them, Also, scholarships
would be a wonderful advantage for these boys ~ many of them
sh w eager desire to get a chance to study subjects of inter-
est to them. Scholarships too, would be of tremendous help
to many other poor students in Algeria. One student, in
particular, impressed the Director with his obviouS'talent
for Art, this, the student she met at the Technical College
in Algiers, who is so poor he cannot buy paints for his work,
but resorts to shoe~polish! The student, Ould Ahmed Mustapha,
is desperately anxious to study art, instead of the electron-
ics, he is obliged to do at preSent. His Principal, too,
Professor Hacini, would like to see the boy get a chance in
this direction.

The Director found out in many countries that there are
numerous deserving and talented young students, unable to
advance in particular studies, owing to the serious lack of
means. And it may be said, most of these students are
actively concerned with the promotion of Kindness and Under—
standing, both as regards animals and Human beings. There—
fore they are of the right material to help build up a better
future for all, in Africa.

The Director is also pleased to report that the
‘Diplomatic Bag' of three countries has been placed at the
diSposal of the Institute, i.e. Nigeria, Ghana and Algeria.
She is in frequent touch with the Ambassadors of these
countries, and has sent many parcels of literature and
posters through this privilege. These Diplomatic Bags are
sent from the Embassies in Dar es Salaam.

N.B. The foregoing report is of necessity written in a
concise form — a longer report might prove very
cumbersome, and could well run into double the
number of pages!

The following humane and active followers of the
Institute's teaching, have been added to the Advisory Board,

 




to act as Liaison members for their respective countries:—

Nigeria:
Ghana:

Sierra Leone:
Algeria:
Morocco:

 

DAR BS SALAAM

 

MAY 1964

Mrs. Oto Ligadu

Mr. J. S. Sackeyfio

Miss Olayinka Burney—Nicol

Madame Jacqueline Martin-Horwitz

Hon. Veterinary Adviser: Dr. Andre
Rosseau

ISOBEL SLTER

DIRECTOR

 




