   

October, 1 93 3.

    
   
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
   
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
  

NOTES

(No. 3).

In the Preliminary issue of these NOTES attention was
called to the apathy of the public towards the prevalent bad
treatment of animals and to some of the cruelties inﬂicted on
them. Cases were cited to show that animals reason; and
several eminent authorities were quoted.

In the second issue it was pointed out that it is the duty
of humane folks to protest; that man is more cruel than the
carnivora; that cases of extreme cruelty are made apparently
respectable by calling them “ spOrt,” or because they are for
commercial purposes. False ideas about ﬁsh as food; the
effects of fear and pain; beef-tea fallacies were noted, and
some contrasts and protests.

When ill, we all seek the assistance of the doctors.
They are, however, of various schools—orthodox, homoeo—
pathic, hydropathic, nature cure, dietetic, anti-viviSectionist
and so on. A patient selects his doctor; or, he may reason
that, as doctors disagree so much, he had better rely on his
own common sense.

There is much,_.divergence of opinion as to the usefulness
of vivisection. Some of the most learned and eminent.
doctors Oppose it. That fact alone justiﬁes a patient’s dis-
trust of tuberculin, insulin, and other remedies based on
experiments on animals. Such remedies are in vogue for a
time and are then abandoned; as was the case with the! use of
mercury, alcohol and blood-letting, which were insisted on
by the medical men as most important and were uSed by
them on a large scale, but are now abandoned.

To-day we are told that diphtheria, typhoid fever, con-
sumption, etc., are being successfully treated by methods
arrived at by vivi-section. Statistics do not prove it; and the

1

I .




 

results, so far, are such that vivisection ought to be pro-
hibited, apart from the fact that it is excessively cruel.

That some diseases are disappearing gradually is, no
doubt, true; but this is not a result for which we have to
thank the vivisectors.

Animals cannot be efﬁcient guides in this matter. They
are so different from man in structure, mode of life, and in
the character of their secretions. The experiments on them
have to be made when they are under abnormal conditions of
fear or pain; or when, being under anaesthetics, their bodily
functions are not working normally together.

It should have been recognized, a priori, that such con—
ditions would naturally cause failure, and that the cruelty
that has been perpetrated on millions of highly sensitive
creatures would be unjustiﬁable.

The variation in animals is well shown in the case of
some that were experimented on to ﬁnd the doses of poison
which are required to kill; and, consequently, the doses that
may be taken without causing death. Horses will take
prussic acid with impunity; yet one grain kills an elephant.
Rabbits take belladonna, and goats hemlock and tobacco.
Some pigeons will take twelve grains of morphia, but a
single grain will kill a man. The pig thrives on “ pig
beans,” which are poisonous to men. Some kinds of morn-
keys take strychnine freely, others are killed by a small
quantity. What is the use of such experiments as guides in
regard to man? How can vivisection of those or other
animals be a reliable guide for man as regards poisons or
any other dangers?

Sir Frederick Treves experimented on dogs, but found
the difference so great between the canine and human bowels
that he had to cast away all the results- of his experiment-s.

Some of the leading vivisectors seem to admit that their
results are unsatlsfactory; for several have stated that the

2

 

 




 

 

 

ﬁnal experiment must be on man. That is an admission that
all the revolting cruelty that has been practised on a very
large scale has been useless—unless they mean that it was
necessary in preparation for the ﬁnal experiment.

An experiment on one man would probably give different
result-s from those obtained by the same experiment on some
other man; just as an experiment on one pigeon or monkey
gives results that do not apply to another pigeon or monkey.
There will be the same effects of pain, fear and other unsatis-
factory cOnditions vitiating and poisoning the blood and
rendering vivisection of man as. nugatory as has been the case
with the other animals. Already there have been experiments
on criminals and young children.

One professor has experimented on a large number of
children, of two years old and upwards, in charitable institu-
tions, to discover whether shingles and chicken-pox can both
be produced by the same poison.

At public debates, advocates of vivisection have denied
that pain is inﬂicted beyond mere pin pricks; though some
of the best known vivisectors have admitted that there is
much suffering, and one claimed the right to inﬂict any
amount of protracted agony.

Dr. Alfred Russel Wallace, the eminent scientist, wrote,
“ I am quite disgusted at the frequency of the most horrible
experiments to determine the most trivial facts,” and Dr. Sir
B. W. Richardson’s opinion was that it is utterly impossible
to observe natural function under the shadow of pain, either
in man or animal.

If it were the opinion of all eminent scientists and
medical men, and a humane public that, when other methods
have all failed to guide them to a cure of some rampant
disease, a special experiment involving vivisection would
probably throw useful light on the case, such experiment
should be made—but only in a Single case—~with great
reluctance, and after an Act of Parliament had sanctioned it.

The present-day free and widespread inﬂiction of ex-

3

 




 

 

trem-e cruelty, in the hope that some good may possibly
arise, ought to be illegal.

To arrive at a reliable conclusion there is one method
called varying the conditions. of the premises. If a deﬁnite
result always. occurs when a preliminary factor is present, and
never occurs when it is absent; then, no matter what other
conditions occasionally accompany, it is correct to say that
that factor is. the cause of that result.

It is, therefore, evident that the remedy for all diseases
is, and always has been, Sanitation, however it may be dis—
guised. There must be internal as well as external cleanli-
ness if we are to have good health. Though anxiety, fear
and other mental disturbances, cause illness, sanitation must
remove the mischief.

Consider the case of typhoid fever. In the late War, so
long as sanitary conditions could be maintained there was no
typhoid fever among the troops; but, as soon as they were
reduced to drinking polluted water, typhoid fever arose.
Those at Gallipoli suffered heavily; and, though all had been
inoculated, that was of no avail, just at the time when it was
supposed to be preventive of the disease. Sanitation
succeeded where inoculations were a complete failure. ‘

Lord Roberts recognized the truth and insisted on more
efﬁcient sanitation.

Consider the case of “ consumption.” Koch’s tuber-
culin was thought to be a cure for that disease; but, after it
had been adopted with enthusiasm, it had to be abandoned.
While using it, the patients lived in chalets. on hills where
they were, night and day, in the open air. Dr. Koch him—
self admitted that it was the fresh air that effected the cures.

It was Mr. Long’s muzzling order that prevented hydro—
phobia. When inoculations were used (as in France and
Italy) they failed.

Anti toxin treatment of diphtheria was a failure, as cases
1ncreased after 1ts 1ntroduction. Sanitary measures, such as

4

 

1’

 




 

 

cleansing the mouth and throat and keeping them in a healthy
state by means of compresses and- such foods as orange and
pineapple juices were found at a medical institution at
Chicago to be so much better that the disease is not looked
on as troublesome to deal with.

At Malta, when fever was prevalent, some cruel experi-
ments were made on monkeys to ﬁnd the cause. There was
no real need, for, as soon as the very polluted harbour was
cleansed and the barracks of the troops moved to a more
healthy site, the fever among the civil population and the
troops became much less.

At Uganda, in Africa, sleeping sickness was investi—
gated by experiments on animals. The Governor of Uganda
stated that the “ atoxyl ” did not cure the patient-s, but sent
some of them mad. He resorted to the sanitary measure of
removing the cause of the illness by clearing away the under—
growth on the banks of the lake and removing the natives
from swampy parts. A rapid decrease in the number of
deaths was the result.

Why give credit to the shocking experiments of the
Vivisectors when it must be clear that it is due to sanitation ?
Some reply that inoculation and sanitation should go to-
gether. But this was not found necessary when cholera,
plague and leprosy were rampant at one time in Europe.
They have disappeared before sanitation in the shape of
drainage of swamps, better water supply and greater cleanll-
ness of the towns and village-s. No vivisection or inocula-
tions were used.

At one time, in Trichinopoli, in'South India, there were,
at intervals of two orthree years, severe outbreaks of cholera.
These outbreaks, in each case, began in the butchers’ quarter.

Clear the slums; abolish the butchers’ shops, the cattle
markets, the slaughter houses, the vivis-ectors’ laboratories

5

 




 

 

and other horrible dens of dirt and cruelty. In doing so,
much illness will be avoided, and without inoculations.
Sanitation is sufﬁcient and effective.

Rely on the nutritious and health—giving foods of the
vegetable kingdom——-~tl1e fruit, pulse, corn, etc., from ﬁelds,
gardens and orchards; not on the diseased and putrefying
products of slaughter. And send the butchers and drovers
to live as agriculturalists in healthy conditions on the land
instead of in the slums.

Do not torture, vivisect and kill in the vain attempt to
gain good health. Pure living will secure that; and there
will be no need of the “grace before meat ” :—

“ Let us prey.”

Queen Victoria on Vivisection :——-

The Daily, Mail for March 8th, in a review of Mr. A. G.
Gardiner’s “ Life of Sir William Harcourt,” has the follow—
ing:—“ He had difﬁculty in dealing with Queen Victoria
for all her friendship, particularly when he was Home
Secretary. Her sympathy with animals was strong. In a
letter she denounced ‘this horrible, brutalising, unehristian—
like Vivisection.” That poor dumb animals should be kept
alive as. described in this trial is revolting and horrible. This
must be stopped. Monkeys and dogs———two of the most
intelligent among these poor animals who cannot complain—-
dogs, ‘ man’s best friend,’ possessed of more than instinct,
to be treated in this fearful way is awful.”

Mr. Henry Nevinson, a few years ago, in an address,
spoke strongly against the chase and other modes of animal
torture. He told of one hunting parson who said to him,
“ By God I I’d rather be a hound than an Archbishop.” He
also called attention to Sir Thos. More’s opinion in
“ Utopia,” :-—“ Hunting is the lowest, vilest, and most
abject part of butchery.”

6

 




 

A leading Consulting Physician, this year wrote :—

“I am strongly opposed to experiments upon dogs in
the name of medical and surgical research.

“I believe that much published so-called research work
based upon animal experimentation is crude and remote from
true science. I know that the custody of dogs in physio-
logical laboratories, and their use, Often involves pain and
anguish. I think it dirty work on the .part of physiologists
to take advantage of the docility of dogs.

“Much of the work based upon experiments on dogs,
as reported in RECENT British medical journals, reveals
loathsome cruelty.

“ In medical education far too much is made of animal
experimentation.

“I know that these views are shared by thousands of
medical men and women in actual medical practice. I have
personally condemned in the columns of the ofﬁcial journal
of the British Medical Association the action of the Associa—
tion in opposing Parliamentary action to mitigate experi-
mental research upon dogs.

_ “ I know that experiments upon dogs have aroused the
‘ contemptuous wrath of humanists of all nation-s, from
Moliere to Galsworthy..

From the Sunday Express of 23rd July, 1933, in refer-
ence to a proposal for an international competition in experi-
ments to be made on dogs to discover the causes of decay
and disease in human teeth. One of Britain’s leading dental
surgeons said :—

“ A dog is not a man. That is why I think the competi-
tion is both useless and cruel. Holes will be drilled in the
dog’s teeth and a stream of micro-organisms injected. For
about six months the dog will suffer great pain from tooth
ache.”

In the periodical, “Science,” Vol. LXIV., No. 1664,
Justice McAndrews, Iohn HOpkins School of Hygiene and
Public Health, describes at length both the mechanism and
the method for the operation of cutting the vocal cords out

7

 




 

 

of a dog’s throat. And why cut out these vocal cords?
That the unfortunate dOg waiting for the experiment to be
performed upon him may not annoy anyone by his whining
or barking.

From the Dundee Advertiser of 26th May, 1923.

“ An interesting incident, exhibiting commendable con-
sideration on the part of several Perth schoolboys, took place
on Cragie Hill Golf Course on Thursday afternoon on the
occasion of Gene Sarazen’s exhibition game. During the
progress of the match a local gentleman stumbled across a
lark’s nest containing four or ﬁve eggs. Desirous of pro-
tecting the little home from being trodden upon unwittingly
by the spectators, he stood guarding it, when, to his surprise,
several schoolboys appeared on the scene and asked to be
allowed to take care of the nest. This. they did by sitting
down in a circle round the nest until the crowd had passed.

“ Another nest, which happened to be in the line of the
huge crowd was similarly safeguarded by the considerate
schoolboys.’ ’

“Quite a number of spectators. were interested in the
kindly act, which showed a sympathy with bird life not
usually associated with schoolboys.”

From the News Chronicle of 22nd June, 1933 :—

“No MERCY FOR SHEER—By 15 votes to 13, a Com—
mittee of the House of Commons excluded sheep and lambs
from the list of animals which must be ‘ humanely killed by
a mechanically operated instrument.’ Why ? Is there really
anybody who wants sheep and lambs. to be killed otherwise
than humanely, and what for ? It is a monstrous decision.”

Mr. E. G. Barlow, of Knutsford, writes, in reference to
a Circus, in May of this year :—

“ A form of animal exploitation gaining favour is that
of a lion on the ‘wall of death.’ I saw such a show—one of the
most disgusting I have ever seen. Yet it was crowded with

8

 

 

 




 

 

 

people. A door in the wall was opened and two lions, doped
and afraid, walked out. A ﬂourish of Showmanship, and one
lion was persuaded to enter a cage in the centre of the ring,
the other to mount a platform attached to a low-built car.
He hesitated, and the driver hit him over the nose and back
legs with a steel whip. He got on the platform, and, with a
roar, the car raced round. The lion was obviously terriﬁed
of the lights, noise and speed. His. turn over, he rushed out
of the ring. -

The door of the cage in the centre of the ring was opened
for the other lion to take his turn, but he refused to come
out. The cage bars were rattled. He was jabbed with a
long fork, but still he stay-ed. At last he was painfully
evicted.”

Mr. Barlow also writes :—-—

If it is. necessary that Tunny shall be killed, why are they
not killed at once instead of being tortured for seven or
eight hours. Also that, in Manchester, dead and piled. up
on trays in a poulterer’s shop, were offered for sale, 11ttle
rabbits from three to six weeks’ old at twopence each.

Since the issue of NOTES, No. 2, two communications
have been received—one stating that the older cruelties are
not much practised now in procuring the seal skins, the
other showing that atrocious cruelty is still inﬂlcted.

One writer, evidently well informed, as late as, July of
this year says that the treatment meted out to some fur
animals is quite unprintable.

Major Charles Van der Byl wrote :—.—

As you lie comfortably in bed at night, remember that
‘ through the long hours thousands. of creatures are moaning
and tearing themselves to pieces in steel traps,.that you may
wrap yourselves in their skins. There are also countless
mothers of the wild among these poor tortured thlngs, whose
young are left to starve. Is it worth all th1s?

When young people start hunting they are “ blooded ”.;
that is, the blood of the killed animal 18 smeared over the1r

9

 

 

 




 

faces. In one case, after a foxhunt, a young lady was
“ blooded,” and, on being invited to dinner in the evening,
she was told on no account to wash the blood off.

Various ways of bringing the facts to notice :—

(I) A well-known London Schoolmaster encourages his
pupils to cultivate the humane spirit. He writes. :—

“ Are we not somewhat hypocritical to be always exhort—
ing children to be kind to animals when many members of
the aristocracy ﬁnd their highest pleasure in killing animals
for sport?”

(2) Several ministers. hold special services once a year—
some oftener—of intercession for the animal world. Com—
menting on a letter from a correspondent, the Guardian of
15th July, 1932, wrote :—-— ‘

“We heartily agree'with him that the Church might
do more to encourage kindness to animals . . . . There is
room for more sermon-s about kindness to animals, for more
prayers and more thanksgiving. Could anyone ever thank
God enough for the ‘unpurchasable love’ of man’s best
animal friend, a dog P”

(3) By a method reported in the Enﬁeld News Sheet in
January of this year :—

“ An excellent publicity plan has been adopted by the
Clacton and District Society. Fixed on a wall belonging to
a sympathiser living in as populous a street as possible, is a
wooden frame, with a glazed front, large enough to take a
double crown poster, 30in. by 20in. In this they exhibit
striking facts about Vivisection, or quotations from eminent
men—a different poster each week. Such posters may be
written in brushWork with little trouble and no expense.

(4) From an R.S.P.C.A. leaﬂet :——

“The public can stop the cruelti-es attendant on stage
performances. by animals by refusing to attend such shows
and telling all their friends to do likewise; or, if present when
a performing animal “turn” comes on, leaving their seats
and not returning till it is over, and expressing to the
management their disapproval.”

IO

 

 




 

 

(5) The People’s Dispensary for Sick Animals of the
Poor treats yearly nearly three-quarters of a million animals.

Examples :—

A donkey that would not eat was found to have raw sores
on its gums, and a bone exposed through the juggling of the
bit by a rough driver. .

A pony very lame and being worked with a shoe nailed
over a festering corn.

(6) The proprietors of a business at Eastbour'ne wrote to
the Animals’ Friend :———

“ I expect you will be interested to know that we are
clearing out all kid gloves and furs and introducing all imita-
tion things at our business at Vinall’s. Several of our staff
are keen on the animal question, and we are telling customers
about the cruelty, which is the cause of our no longer Stock-
ing these goods. It is very interesting, and on many
occasions customers have had imitation fur for coats or trim-
ming instead of real, which they came for. The business
has increased in these departments since we gave up the real
furs.”

There are beautiful British-made fur fabrics of silk and
wool. Buy these, and so support a humane British industry
instead of the foreign trafﬁc in animal furs. They can be
had from :——

MARJA, No. I, Wilton Place, Knightsbridge, London.

i\’TAD.-\ME E. DUNN, 183b, Adelaide Rd., London, N.w.3.

Miss QUINTON, Unity Humane House, 20, Gordon Rd.,

Boscombe, Hants.

FOR THE CHILDREN.

My Clumber spaniel, Rollo, used to delight in gomg on
the motor ’bus from near the Toad Rock to Tunbridge Wells
with my sister, who usually waited on a rustic seat near the
road. When she saw the motor ’bus coming she used to
walk from the seat to meet it; and the dog, with many ex-
pressions of delight, went with her. One morning she
started off to meet the motor ’bus, and, ﬁnding that the dog

II

 




did not follow, she called him several times, but he refused
to com-e. She then found she had forgotten her handbag,
which was lying on the seat. The dog, seeing this, had
decided that he would stay behind and guard the bag—sad
enough, no doubt, at having to forego his ride to the town.

Another Clumber spaniel, though living half his time in
the kitchen, and very fond of the maids, whose pet he is, will,
in my absence, growl at them if they touch my boots or hat
or other article of mine which he considers specially in his
own charge.

And these are our friends and protectors that are cruelly
vivisected; and with no result but mischief. [A.C.N.

Read “ Exploring in Nature’s Wonderland,” by Frieda
1e Pla, a delightful study boo-k of stories for young children,
calculated to interest them sympathetically in the wild life
of garden, woodland and stream.

Margery Daw and Little Tom Tucker, after having‘
dinner with a friend who was too humane to have meat with
his meals, were very pleased :———

FRUIT OR TOFFEE?

So to breakfast, dine and sup
On fresh fruits I mean to try,
Every day when I grow up.
That’s what I’ll do, by-and-by.
I will never ask. for wine
For myself or for my guest.
On fresh fruit we both will dine.
Tom Tucker. Tom dear! don’t you like fruit

I agree with you in that; 'best.
Why, with such a jolly dinner T0111 1‘ ucker.
Every day, I’d soon get fat; Do I like it best? Not I
Or, at any rate, not thinner! These are what I like to take :—
Roly-poly pudding, pie—
Christmas puddi_ng,——custard,
cake;
Hot-cross buns and treacle toffee;

Margery DaW.
That was a delicious meal!
And, I must say, with each
plateful
That I took, it made me feel——
Did you, Tom?———content and
grateful.

Margery Daw.
I love strawberries and cream!
Raspberries and currants too;

Fruits to dream about—my dream.
Dreams, though, often don’t come
true.

Grapes and oranges and cherries;
Apples, damsons, tangerines,
Nuts, bananas—and blackberries;
Plums and peaches, nectarines!

Butterscotch and marmalade;
Mufﬁns—hot, with tea or coffee;
Ginger beer and lemonade.
Lemon ices with a bun, too;
Barley-sugar, honey, jam.
Give me these and lots of fun, too.
That’s the sort of boy I am!

12

 




