5 .11.

V1v1sect1oﬁ» \f-

\ ' ”Ii ‘.
AA . i I ‘.

5’ 9( "\-\ "\
AND ’01®&:/;; \ f

The" “Field” Distemper Panda/,3 49%
' I?

’%#:so 04!
Tormenting Dogs to Help(?) other Dogs! <51:

 

 

 

 

 

 

Vivlsector: “ You’re a very nice healthy little dog, so I’m going to give iyou

distemper. ’ ’

HE following correspondence has passed between
the Secretary of the British Union for Abolition
of Vivisection and Sir Theodore Cook, hon.

secretary of the Field Distemper Council. It appears
to settle once for all the fact that Vivisectional experi-i
ments are contemplated by that Council, and it certainly

 




 

shows that their representative is a bigoted devotee of
vivisection .

32, CHARING CROSS, S.W.l.
October 10, 1923.
Sir Theodore Cook.
DEAR SIR,»—

As you are no doubt aware, many lovers Of dogs view with.
extreme suspicion the Field Distemper Fund on. the ground that
certain licensed vivisectors are undertaking work in connection
with it.

Can you give me a deﬁnite statement that no work will be done
which requires a licence under the Cruelty to Animals Act?

I am urged on all hands to institute vigorous opposition to the
Fund, and nothing but an assurance that no dogs will be inoculated
with disease in the course of a search for a vaccine or serum will
satisfy anti—vivisectionists.

If you can give me an assurance that there will be neither
inoculation experiments nor unnatural feeding in the hope Of
producing disease in the animals, the fears of our members might
be allayed.

I trust you will be able to give me a deﬁnite reply on these two
points--———whether work will be done under licences and certiﬁcates,
and whether attempts will be made to produce distemper in some
Of the dogs .——I am, yours faithfully,

BEATRICE E. KIDD.

THE “FIELD,” WINDSOR HOUSE,
BREAM’S BUILDINGS, LONDON, E.C.4.
Miss B. E. Kidd. October 11, 1923.
DEAR MADAM,———

At the present moment I am not at all inclined to answer any
letters which come from people who call themselves "anti-
vivisection”; for they have published in various papers and in
postcards the most cruel mis—statements concerning which I am
now taking lawyer’s opinion. It is not by methods Of the kind
employed by members of your Society that you will commend
whatever views you have to the public, and I am astonished to
think from your letter that you appear to prefer that thousands
of dogs should suffer from diseases that are preventable, rather
than that every effort Should be made to save them from their
pain. I will send you later on a more formal reply to a letter
which I confess has very much surprised me.

Faithfully yours,
THEODORE A. COOK,
Hon . Secretary, Field Distemper Council.

32, CHARING CROSS, S.W.1.
Sir Theodore Cook. October 12, 1923.
DEAR SIR,——-
I am not aware that any members of my Society have published
any “cruel mis—statements” about the Field Distemper Fund.




But, surely, if they have done so, the best way of stopping them~
would be to prove the statements to be untrue by a guarantee
such as I asked for.

I entirely fail to understand why my letter should have
“surprised” you; and I think you will see, on reﬂection, that to
accuse me of willingness that dogs should suffer from diseases
that are preventable, because I object to some dogs being Offered
up in vicarious sacriﬁce, is as unreasonable as if I were to accuse
you of willingness that mankind should suffer from diseases that
are preventable because you do not suggest similar experimenta—
tion upon yourself. In either case, both of us have the right
to scepticism in regard to the result to be attained.

Yours faithfully,
BEATRICE E. KIDD.

THE “FIELD,” WINDSOR HOUSE,
BREAM’s BUILDINGS, LONDON, E.C.4.
October 19, 1923.

FIELD DISTEMPER FUND.
DEAR MADAM,——
I am directed to reply to your inquiry of October 10 relative
to the investigation into the causes of canine distemper and into
the possible means of curing or preventing the disease.

I am to inform you that in the judgment of my Council the
investigation cannot be conducted with hope Of success except
by experimental methods, and that these methods must necessarily
include—although to what extent remains uncertain—the per-
formance of experiments within the meaning of the Act of 1876.
It is only by experimental trial and proof that the investigators
can hope to elicit truths which purely observational methods
have so far entirely failed to discover. There is no alternative
method of advancing knowledge and of so gaining power to diminish
the present sufferings of dogs.

The search for a causative organism of the disease must involve
the examination of naturally infected animals. Should different
infective organisms from natural cases of distemper be successfully
isolated in pure culture, as seems not improbable, it will not be
possible to determine which is the active cause of the disease except
by inoculation experiments with dogs reared under Special con-
ditions which will exclude the possibility of unsuspected natural
infection. Some of these inoculations may, not necessarily but
probably, result in artiﬁcially producing in a small number of
dogs the disease distemper which they would in all probability
acquire naturally under ordinary conditions.* Should this be the
result, however, it will have demonstrated the cause of the disease
and will have paved the way for a constructive study Of means of
combating the discovered organism and thus of obviating or
alleviating the disease among dogs in general.

If the cause of the disease be successfully discovered the work
would naturally proceed to the direct study of possible preventive

 

* The whole procedure being experimental, any other kind of blood-poisoning
may be produced.

 




or curative agents. So far as can be foreseen, these possible
remedies might include vaccines, sera or drugs requiring to be
administeiedb to dogs- having distemper, by means which would
come Within the terms of the Act so long as they were still in the
trial stage and not yet of fully pioven efﬁcacy in the alleviation
of animal suffe11ng. .

1 I am,.you1s faithfully,

THEODORE A. COOK,
Hon Secretary, Field Distemper Fund

. , y 7 _ 32, CHARiNG CROSS, S.W.1.
Sir Theodore Cook-- . 1- 1 , October 20, 1923.
DEAR SIR,.——-

I beg to thank you for the formal reply to my letter of October 10,
sent by you on behalf of your Council. As some most horrible
experiments upon animals have been conducted in the course of
a search for the supposed ”causative organism" of diseases in the
past (in my opinion without any benefit to any living creature
resulting therefrom), I think you cannot expect those who object
to the principle of enforced vicarious suffering to agree to them
with your own enthusiasm, or, indeed to do anything but oppose
them.

You state your opinion, in a personal letter which you have
enclosed with the formal one as follows: “You deserve nothing
better than communication with solicitors on the subject, aftei
you have deliberately given your countenance to the publication
in the Press, and through the post, broadcast, of material for which
there is not the slightest justiﬁcation. ”

My “ countenance” having never been asked for the dissemination
of material of any kind connected with the F ield Distemper Fund,
I have not as yet given it, and I could certainly face with equanimity
any number of solicitors’ letters. And although it is a matter of
interest to me to be further informed that you have been “com-‘
pelled to tell the Duchess Of Hamilton” the same thing, I cannot
see what this has to do with me, since the Duchess of Hamilton
is not, and never has been, a member of my Society. I will,
however, willingly oblige you by forwarding to her a copy of your
Ofﬁcial letter.

When “ men who are giving their lives for the reduction of pain
both in animals and in human beings” disregard the rights of
individual animals or of human beings, and'inﬂict undeserved
suffering upon them, they are Opposed by my Society; otherwise,
we appreciate their work as much as we appreciate any othei
paid work, but we consider that only unpaid work is deserving of
such extravagant laudation as that which you bestow upon them.

I am, yours faithfully,
BEATRICE E. KIDD.

 

‘ Published by the British Union for Abolition of Vivisection.
32, Charing Cross, S.\V. 1.

Printed by Deverell; Gibson & H-oare, Bromley Buildings, Bread St. Hill. E;C.4.J

 




