June 3, 1980

Rachel Harris

F & I Ediror's‘Assistant
George Peaboéy College
Box 164

Nashville, TN 37203

Dear Ms. Harris,

Enclosed are samples of same of our publications and a listing of
all available titles.

The materials requested by F e I were Kittens and Cats, and Yogf'
and Your Deg. These are enclosed along with Humane ﬁiology Projects,

for review
and possible inclusion.

All titles are free ( single copy) to teachers. Kittens and Cats,"
You and Your Dog and Good Kind Lion are .20 each. Hggane‘giooogz
Projects and First Aid and Care are $2.00 each.

Thanks for providing this valuableeservice, the response during the
past 6 months has been very good, with most requests from children.

Sincerely.

Sheryl Sternenberg
Publications Secretary

 




 

 

 

 

# FREE  
& .

INE XPENSIVE

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

‘ learning

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

OUR NEW 19th EDITION

Free and Inexpensive
Learning Materials

Extensive guide to carefully evaluated educational
materials.

Descriptions of more than 3000 learning resources
' currently available to educators and students.

Lists hundreds of free items and many others that
cost less than $3.00. Includes pamphlets, charts,
maps, outlines, units, activities, projects and films.

New materials on timely classroom topics: drugs,
health, inflation, leisure, space, women, energy,
ecology and more.

Description, price and complete ordering information
included for each item listed.

Entries classified under subject headings and cross-
referenced for the user’s convenience.

 

Order from: Incentive Publications, Inc.
PO Box 120189
Nashville, TN 37212
Price: $4.50

NAME
ADDRESS
CITY, STATE, ZIP

 

 

 

Please enclose check or money order for total of
order PLUS $1.00 for shipping and handling.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




George Peabody College for Tear/yen
VANDERBILT UNIVERSITY

NASHVILLE, TENNESSEE 37203 TELEPHONE (615) 322-7311

Department of Educational Leadership 0 Direct pbone 32 7-81 71

May 27, 1980

Animal Welfare Institute
Washington, D.C. 20007

Dear Friend:

The 1981—82 edition of Free and Inexpensive Learning Materials is in the
early stages of preparation. For the past 37 years we have published
this extensive sourcebook of pamphlets and booklets, maps and charts,
posters and pictures, units and projects, and other print and non—print
items which may be obtained free or for a small charge~~usually $2.00 or
less.- The enclosed flyer gives further detail on our current edition.

Teachers, librarians, and students throughout the country use our annotated
guide to secure quality materials for use in the classroom.

To maintain an up-to—date listing, we continually search for suitable

new materials. At this time, we are interested in the item(s) distributed
by you which appear at the bottom of this page. Please send a review

copy of any of these or similar items which you wish considered for
inclusion in our next edition. Additionally, you should include full
instructions about ordering, pricing, and the like. If you distribute a
catalog or publications list, please send a current copy.

If you submit sample materials now, we will recontact you prior to going
to press for your verification of our preposed listing of your titles.

You will also be able to submit additional new materials at that time.

Address sample copies to: Rarﬂiel Ikrrris. F & I Editor's Assistant,
George Peabody College - Box 164, Nashville, TN 37203.

Review Materials Requested:

 

Kittens and Cats

You and Your Dog

 




L B 475 Park Avenue South
I MMAL New York, New York 10016
Published In Affiliation With Laboratory Management

CARE 0 BREEDING o DIAGNOSTICS 0 RESEARCH o TEACHING

RE: Your FREE LISTING in the

 

1980—81 LAB ANIMAL BUYER'S GUIDE

 

Dear Marketer:

The ninth edition of the LAB ANIMAL BUYER'S GUIDE will be sent to
10,000 animal research scientists and animal facilities administrators.
When you fill in and return the questionnaire on the inside of this
letter, the information about your product or service will be listed
in the BUYER'S GUIDE —— at no charge -— and will represent your best
opportunity to reach these scientists and administrators.

Most important, every product listing will once again have a reader's
service number to help speed sales leads to you.

This edition of the BUYER'S GUIDE will include strain designations for
all major laboratory animal species, an expanded section on research and
behavioral modification or studies equipment, and the latest information
on veterinary products, pharmaceuticals, and surgical instruments.

In addition, this 1980—81 directory will include more than 20 new, never—
before—listed product categories that makes this edition more valuable to
readers —- more powerful for advertisers (see starred items inside).

So please fill in and return this questionnaire to us today. Indicate the
products you currently market by generic and trade name, and don't forget
to include your company name and address on the last page. We appreciate
your prompt attention, and we're glad to offer you this FREE LISTING in the
LAB ANIMAL BUYER'S GUIDE.

If you need more room, just add another sheet. Also, if you wish yOu can
attach your catalog and 8x10 black and white glossies.

PLEASE NOTE: We would appreciate your returning this questionnaire to us
by June 20th.

Cordially,

SLWCW

Susan L. Fowler
Editor

P.S. We can accept listings only for your proprietary products and for
those products for which you are the exclusive national diStributor.

 

 

 




PLEASE CHECK PRODUCT ( ) WHERE INDICATED

 

LABORATORY ANIMALS
(Please check off animal species and list strain designations

Mice, inbred. Strains:

Mice, outbred. Strains:

Mice, hybrid. Strains:

Mice, mutant. Strains:

Rats, inbred. Strains:

Rats, outbred. Strains:

Rats, hybrid. Strains:

Gerbils. Strains:

Hamsters, inbred. Strains:

Hamsters, outbred. Strains:

Guinea pigs, outbred. Strains:

Guinea pigs, outbred, albino. Strains:

Guinea pigs, inbred. Strains:

Rabbits, outbred, NZW. Strains:

Rabbits, outbred, Dutch. Strains:

Rabbits, inbred. Strains:

Cats. ( ) Conditioned ( ) Colony bred ( ) Random source
Dogs, beagles: ( ) Conditioned ( ) Immunized ( ) Colony bred
Dogs, other: ( ) Conditioned ( ) Colony bred
Primates. Species:

Swine. Strains:

Amphibians. Species:

Marine Invertebrates. Species:

Fish. Species:

Birds. Species:

Other:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(
(
(
(
(
(
(
(
(
(
(
(
(
(
(
(
(
(
(
(
(
(
(
(
(
(

vvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvv

 

F‘

ANIMAL CAGES

(Circle the styles you sell).

Mice: wire stainless steel plastic travel other:
Rats: wire stainless steel plastic travel other:
Gerbils: wire stainless steel plastic travel other:
Hamsters: wire stainless steel plastic travel other:
Guinea pigs: wire stainless steel plastic travel other:
Rabbits: wire stainless steel plastic travel other:
Cats: wire stainless steel plastic travel other:
Dogs: wire stainless steel plastic travel other:
Monkeys: wire stainless steel plastic travel other:
Apes: wire stainless steel plastic travel other:
Other: wire stainless steel plastic travel other:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

I—‘OKOOO\l0\U1-l-\UJNI—I

|—||—_I

 

Breeding Cages

 

l. ( ) Mice . ( ) Hamsters
2. ( ) Rats . ( ) Guinea pigs
3. ( ) Gerbils . ( ) Other:

 

Metabolism Units

 

1. ( ) Mice 2. ( ) Rats . Hamsters 4.

 

 




PLEASE CHECK PRODUCT ( ) WHERE INDICATED

 

Cage Covers

 

1. Mouse cages: ( ) wire ( ) filter 4. Hamster cages: ( ) wire ( ) filter
2. Rat cages: ( ) wire ( ) filter 5. Guinea pig cages: ( ) wire ( ) filter
3. Gerbil cages: ( ) wire ( ) filter 6. Other:

 

Cage Racks

 

1. Small animal cages (mice—cats): ( ) wheeled ( ) floor ( ) wall
2. Larger animal cages: ( ) wheeled ( ) floor ( ) wall

Outdoor cages

 

1. Small animal cages or runs (describe)
2. Large animal cages or runs (describe)

 

 

Controlled Environment Housing

 

1. Room size or larger: ( ) components only ( ) systems
2. Rack size: ( ) components only ( ) systems
3. Cage size: ( ) components only ( ) systems

7"Germ-free Equipment

 

1. Room size or larger: ( ) components only ( ) systems
2. Rack size: ( ) components only ( ) systems
3. Cage size: ( ) components only ( ) systems

Cage Accessories

 

1. ( ) Water bottles ( ) Sipper tubes ( ) Card holders

Animal Bedding'

 

1. ( ) Shavings . ( ) Pellets
2. ( ) Sheets . ( ) Sterile (for germ—free applications)
3. ( ) Deodorant sheets . Other:

 

Feed Bins

1. ( ) Small animals 2. ( ) Large animals

*Identification Material & Equipment

( ) ID tags 4. ( ) Tattoo equipment
2. ( ) Toe clippers 5. ( ) Other:
3. ( ) Ear punches

 

Restrainer Units

 

1. ( ) Small animals (mice—cats) 3. ( ) Monkeys, apes
2. ( ) Large animals (dogs—pigs) 4. ( ) Other:

 

Aquaria & Aquaria Supplies

 

1. Laboratory aquaria (describe)
2. Salts (describe)
3. Environmental controls (describe)

 

 

 

 




 

PLEASE CHECK PRODUCT ( ) WHERE INDICATED
III. CAGE EQUIPMENT

Automated Watering

 

1. ( ) Valves only 2. ( ) Systems

Automated Waste Disposal

 

1. ( ) Dry system 2. (- ) Flush system Q

Q's

*Automated Feed Dispensers

 

Describe

 

*Automated Bedding Dispensers

 

Describe

 

Cage Washing Equipment

 

 

1. ( ) Tunnel type 4. ( ) Portable kennel washers
2. ( ) Rotary type 5. ( ) Cage washing chemicals
3. ( ) Cabinet type
*Sterilization
l. ( ) Autoclaves. Monitors: ( ) mechanical ( ) biological ( ) chemical

2. ( ) Dry heat sterilizers. Monitors: ( ) mechanical ( ) biological
( ) chemical

3. ( ) Ethylene oxide gas sterilizers. Monitors: ( ) mechanical

( ) biological ( ) chemical
4. { ) Peracetic acid systems. ( ) equipment ( ) monitoring equipment
5. ( ) Air sterilization systems. ( ) filters ( ) monitoring equipment
6 ( ) Ultraviolet sterilizers. ( ) monitors

WWW
IV} DIETS

Standard Diets (Circle the animal you supply diets for)

 

Mice Rats Gerbils Hamsters Guinea pigs Rabbits Cats Dogs Primates Birds

*Certified Low—contaminant Diets (Circle the animal you supply diets for)

 

Mice Rats Gerbils Hamsters Guinea pigs Rabbits Cats Dogs Primates Birds

Open Formula Diets

 

1. ( ) Ingredients 2. ( ) Complete diets 3. ( ) Custom formulations m

*Dietery Supplements

 

Please list:

 

AAA“AA‘AAA“A‘A“AAAAAAA“A‘-‘A‘AAA‘A‘AAA‘AAA‘A -
Vvav‘vvvvvvvvvvvvvvwwvv'vvv'v'v‘vvvv‘VVWVVVVVAVAVVAV‘V‘V‘VA:V""“-AA‘AAAA‘AA-A. A“AAA‘
v'vv'v'vvv'vvvv‘vvv‘v

V2 FACILITY DESIGN MATERIALS & SUPPLIES

Flooring Materials

 

Describe:

 

 




PLEASE CHECK.PRODUCT ( ) WHERE INDICATED

*Wall Materials

 

1. ( ) Indoor walling (describe):
2. ( ) Outdoor walling or building panels (describe):

 

 

 

3. ( ) Outdoor/kennel fencing: ( ) chain link material ( ) Modular panels

( ) rooms or kennels, prefabricated
CeilingiMaterials

Describe:

 

 

Washing7Chemicals

 

1. ( ) Detergents 3. ( ) Disinfectants
2. ( ) Virucides 4. ( ) Deodorants
5. Other (describe):

WWW

 

*VT. BIOHAZARD EQUIPMENT

1. ( ) Glasses 8. ( ) Fume hoods

2. ( ) Gloves 9. ( ) Laminar flow cabinets

3. ( ) Masks 10. ( ) Metal isolation systems
4. ( ) Suits 11. ( ) Plastic isolation systems
5. ( ) Respirators 12. ( ) Air monitoring systems

6. ( ) Safety labels 13. ( ) Radiation detectors

7. ( ) Safety cabinets 14. ( ) Other:

 

WWW

*VII. PEST CONTROL

 

1. ( ) Built-in controls
2. ( ) Insecticides: ( ) Pyrethrin formulations ( ) Boric acid formulations
( ) Other: 4.
3. ( ) Insect traps
4. ( ) Fly grids
5. ( ) Rodent traps

WWW
‘VIII. THERAPEUTTCS & DIAGNOSTICS

(Describe any product you want to highlight)

 

 

 

 

 

 

1. ( ) Therapeutic drugs (antibiotics, analgesics, steroids, etc.)

2. ( ) Vaccines

3. ( ) Parasiticides

4. ( ) Diagnostic aids (test kits, etc.)

5. ( ) Diagnostic equipment & supplies (hematology, urinalysis, etc.)

 

WW
IX. LABORATORY SUPPLIES & EQUIPMENT

( Circle the supplies you sell and describe what you want highlighted)

Culture media Culture broth Serums Proteins Substrates Dyes
'Describe:

 

Lab Furniture
1. ( ) Cabinets 3. ( ) No—slip surfaces

2. ( ) Tables 4. ( ) Other:

 

 

 




PLEASE CHECK PRODUCT ( ) WHERE INDICATED

Lab Equipment

 

1. ( ) Microscopes: ( ) Standard light ( ) Scanning electron microscope
( ) Other:
Lamps & accessories
Centrifuge
Test tube vortexer
Clinical apparatus
Other:

 

 

 

 

*Glassware

1. ( ) Re—usable glass 3. ( ) Disposable glass
2. ( ) Disposable plastic 4. ( ) Other:

 

W
X. SURGERY & PATHOLOGY

Furniture

1. ( ) Operating room/autopsy tables . ( ) Instrument tables
2. ( ) Prep tables . ( ) Cabinets
3. ( ) Sinks . ( ) Other:

 

Eguipment

1. ( ) Respirators 4. ( ) Anesthesia & gas apparatus 7. ( ) Intensive care units
2. ( ) ECG machines 5. ( ) Blood pressure monitors 8. ( ) Other:
3. ( ) Cage warmers 6. ( ) Ventilators

 

Instruments

 

( ) Please check here if you sell a wide range of instruments.
( ) List any instruments you'd like to highlight:

 

 

Surgical Drapes & Disposables

 

1. ( ) Drapes 2. ( ) Gowns 3. ( ) Gloves 4.

 

XI. RESEARCH EQUIPMENT

1. ( ) Activity monitors . ( ) Recorders
4. ( ) EEGs . ( ) Other:

 

LAB ANIMAL CONSULTING SERVICES

1. ( ) Diagnostic & Health assessment 2. ( ) Facility (architecture & engineering)
3. ( ) Diet analysis 4. ( ) GLP Advisement
5. ( ) Insect control 6. ( ) Other:

 

 




PLEASE CHECK PRODUCT ( ) WHERE INDICATED
IN VTTRO CARCINOGEN,1MUIAGEN TESTS

) Ames Test (Salmonella Typhimurium)

) Mammalian cell culture mutagenicity test

) Mammalian cell culture transformation test

) E. coli Pol—A test

) Yeast (Neurospora crassa) mutagenicity test

) Carcinogenicity, mutagenicity testing service

aVaaaaaaVVaaaaaa---Caae----------~1~111A1AAAA1-----~1~11111----A

*XIV. CATALOGS

( X) If you have a catalog with a wide range of products or services that you'd
like to have listed in this NEW category, please check here, and describe:
Educational Materials listing from the Animal Welfare Institute—

the AWI publishes and distributes various publications of interest
WWW

 

 

 

XV. BOOKS

9‘ ) Please attach your lab animal science booklist.

M

*XVI. AUDIOrVISUAL MATERIALS

( Tapes: ( ) rent ( ) sell Topics:
( Filmstrips: ( ) rent ( ) sell Topics:
( Slides: ( ) rent ( ) sell Topics:
(

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Films: ( ) rent ( ) sell Topics:

 

If you wish, please attach descriptive material/brochures.

WWW/WW
XVII. COMPUTERS

) Software ( ) Billing/bookkeeping programs
( ) Carcinogen/chemical description
( ) Recreational programs

) Calculators

) Micro/Minicomputers

) CRT terminals, printers

 




Name Sheryl Sternenberql Publications Secretary

Organization Animal HEJfaIe Institute

Date 4/2/80__

Free Stuff for Kids

 

Survey

Please take the time to fill this out the best you can. Your responses
will help us in our contacts with other suppliers, and in our plans for
other books and editions of Free Stuff for Kids.

 

How many requests for your item(s) have you received since they first
appeared in Free Stuff? (If you haven't kept records, can you give
an estimate?)

 

Approx. 3 daily, or approximately 1,000 this past year.

Can we offer your item(s) in the 1981 edition of Free Stuff for Kids?
Please indicate any change in address or cost ($1.00 is still the limit)
on the attached forms.

Yes

Would you prefer to offer something different in Freeéﬁtufffgr Kids/1981.
Please indicate new items on the attached release forms and send samples.

NO

 




Would you be willing to have your item(s) appear in a Canadian edition
of Free Stuff for Kids (i.e., will you mail to Canada)? Please list
any changes or special conditions if the answer is yes.

 

Yes, we mail to Canada- no restrictions

Can we make your item(s) available, if appropriate, to readers of our
proposed Free Stuff for Teens book?

 

Not appropriate for teens

Do you have any materials you'd like to offer through "free stuff"
books for parents, homeowners, or gardeners?

No

We know that children's handwriting is sometimes illegible and that
they sometimes fail to include the proper postage, or a big enough SASE,
etc. Are there any other problems of this nature that we should be
aware of?

The only problem is that whole classes have been known to request
materials and not send money.

Finally, are you generally pleased with the way your materials have
been presented in Free Stuff for Kids and are you happy with the response
and exposure that Ehe‘Eook has generated for your organization?

 

Yes, fine.

 




FREE STUFF FOR KIDS

RELEASE FORM -- 1981

You have our permission to list "Kittens and Cats"and'You and Your Doqf

 

 

in FREE STUFF FOR KIDS. We agree to respond to requests from children for
one each of the above item(s) during 1981. We reserve the right to substi-
tute another comparable item if necessary (if original supplies run out or
if the item is revised), and we will send samples of such items to Meadow—
brook Press is substitutions become necessary. We understand that we are
responsible for all mailing and handling of our item(s) and not Meadowbrook
Press or the editors of FREE STUFF FOR KIDS.

Sheryl Sternenberg
.Signature Print name

 

 

 

Publications Secretary '
Title/Department Organization

4/2/80 P.04 Box 3650
Date , Address

Washington, D.C. 20007
City State Zip

 

L202)_337—2332
Phone

 

Full address for children to
send requests to (you may code

the address): Ari: J NEJE r Institute

Jig? Box 3350

 

 

 

Washington. D.C. 20007

 

 

Please note any fees for postage and handling or special mailing instructions
you would like us to mention. For instance, do you want readers to send
requests on a postcard, do you want them to send you a long, self-addressed,
stamped envelope?

Use paper and pen (pencil), send .20 for each item.

 

 

April, 1980

 




\

. Weadowblbolg ‘Ptéss

March 27, 1980

Dear FREE STUFF FOR KIDS supplier:

I wish this letter could be a little more personal, but since
over a hundred organizations are involved in FREE STUFF, that
isn't possible. But I am writing with a personal message.

I'd like to thank you for everything you and your organization
have done to help make FREE STUFF FOR KIDS a success.

FREE STUFF has, in fact, succeeded beyond our (and perhaps your)
wildest expectations. You may not be aware that the book has
been a New York Times best seller, that 4 children's book clubs
have purchased it, and that it's been heralded by newspapers,
teachers, librarians, parents and, of course, kids all over

the country. 500,000 copies may be sold by the end of the

year.

 

We know, however, that our success has often put a strain on you,
your staff and your supplies of "free stuff." So we're grate-
ful to you for persevering in your efforts to respond to the
deluge of mail our book may have brought to you, especially

when some of the requests were illegible or the postage was
insufficient. We get letters from a lot of happy kids, and

only a few complaints.

Despite the problems that have attended all of this, we do

hope that you've been happy that your information, your message,
or your product has found its way to so many interested and
grateful readers. And they are grateful! As one young letter-
writer recently put it to us, ”I've enjoyed and learned from

the things in your book. You've made a lot of kids happy!“

I'm pleased to be able to pass along the compliment.

But my main purpoSe in writing is to invite you to participate

in next year's edition of the book too. As you know, the current
edition guarantees the availability of its offers through 1980.
So right now we're starting to think about the 1981 edition,
which will be published in September of this year.

Naturally, I'd like to see your item or items remain in this
new edition. Or, if that's not possible, we'd be happy to
consider a Substitute or an alternative. (And you certainly
may change your offer in any way you see fit,.although a dollar
remains the maximum for postage and handling.) Since you've
been in the-book for awhile, you know what the response to '
your_offers has been, and you can predict what next year

might bring. (We don't think we'll sell as many copies next
year as we have this, however.)

16648 Meodowbrook Lane Wayzata. Mn. 55391 (612) 933-5008

 




To make a response from you as easy as possible, I've drawn up

a survey that asks a number of questions about all of this. I'd
appreciate your filling it out, even if you decide to drop out
of the book.

I've also enclosed photocopies of the pages in the current
edition of FREE STUFF that list your offer(s), plus new release
forms to fill out if you decide you want to stay. And, finally,
I've included a copy of a new page we've added to the most

recent printing of the book, in an effort to reduce the number

of requests you get from kids who fail to follow the instructions.
As you can see, we tell readers not to expect a reply from any
supplier if, for instance, they don't send the proper postage

and handling fee.

I'm sorry to burden you with all of these materials, but it
seemed sensible to get this all taken care of at once. So that
we can begin work on the new edition of the book, can I ask '
you to reply no later than May 1, 1980, by sending me the
completed survey and the release forms? If I don't hear from
you by then I'll assume you want your offer removed from the
next edition.

And please do call if you would like to discuss any of this
in greater detail. Thanks again for all your work. I look
forward to editing the new book with your offers in it.

Cordially,

"Tao—M <ﬁhaJé’

Tom Grady
FREE STUFF editor

enclosures

P.S. It occurs to me, rather belatedly, to mention that Pat-
Blakely has sold FREE STUFF to Meadowbrook and is no longer
connected with the project, except in spirit. We continue to.
be grateful to her for putting us in touch with most of you.

 




 

PETS

 

 

The purpose of the A... rican Societyf or t. he
Prevention of Cruelty to Animals is to encourage
people to treat animals humanely. Send for a whole
packet of stuff about animals, including bookmarks,

an 8- page coloring book, and three information sheets
aboutdogs.

directions: Use paper and an envelope.
You must send in 500."

ask for: Animal Care — Free Stuff

write to: Animal Care — Free Stuff
ASPCA, Education Dept.
441 East 92nd St.
New York, NY 10028

Your cat and dog are sometimes your best friends,
right? Learn how to treat them better by sending away
for these tWo booklets that have pictures you can col- i

or.
directions: - Use paper and an envelope. You

must enclose 20¢ for each booklet . i

that you order.

askilor: . . * Kittens and Cats

You and Your Dog

write to: -. f Animal Welfare Institute
PO. Box 3650
.Washington, DC. 20007

"“N- _,< -, < .. .
..»'-.,-.;,'-Iw .QJ’IV" .‘ 9.1“
quits. x- *r. ,7, t " ,"yuww

‘I"“";"-‘n:.."l :‘ ;-.':~'
_-'Iti‘ '-'v'*"i‘r—«'t" g"? a: . I... . . .. j ..
.5:L,QI;‘I;€,§#I;§}V'};l{ :‘LL 13$. ' .. I . w “Zn.— 1‘1 15:35: ’{iifif .:,.,-.-_;}:t.:
r "‘ ' ~ -' J ‘ .’ _ ., - a. ...‘ . ., - '.-4‘-..:~ s. ‘13-” ix 1 .

, g, . _

i'it.».I-4‘r:‘<. 5'.‘
VS; ligfirgg yaw
« .. «aw-N .- ﬁt-

A; tau-i: I". ,-

3 1:4{1};
I: ifgl‘éw - *9
u: I
- t u‘ 11-1-4," .159,
t- 41-»

 

 




A how to make sure you
m get; what you send for

We’ve tried to make the directions for using this book as clear as
possible, because we want you to get what you send for. But you
must follow all the instructions exactly as they’ re written on each
page. It you don’ t, it’s possible that the supplier will not be able to
answer your request.

Here’s a list of things to remember when asking for free stuff.
0 Do not ask for more than one copy of an item.

0 Do print your name and address clearly on the envelope
and on the letter you send. Sometimes envelopes and
letters get separated from one another.

Do send all of the money asked for.
Do not send pennies.

Do tape the coins you send to the letter you send them
with. If you don’t, the money may rip the envelope and
fall out.

 

Do send a 9-inch long self-addressed, stamped envelope
if instructions say to.

Do not as k Meadowbrook" r- ess to send you any of the

ithems d scribed in the book. We don’t have supplies of
t em

We don’t want you to be disappointed, so please follow
these rules.

 

 




 

 

 

January 22, 1980

Animal welfare Institute
PO Box 3650
Washington, DC 20007

Dear Freebie Supplier:

I have enclosed for your review a recent copy of
Freebies Magazine. This publication is a monthly, paid
subscription magazine ($6/year), which reports on items
available to the general public without charge (other
than minimal postage and handling costs.)

If the format of Freebies meets with your approval,
I would like to receive a sample of the material(s)
listed below so that we can evaluate it for inclusion
in an upcoming issue.

Please fill out and return the accompanying PRESS
REQUEST card along with the free material(s).

In order to keep Freebies current, we would appreciate
your handling this request as soon as possible.

Sincerely,

Jéén Mangu;;Z7ZgE:ggkzzg//

Managing Editor

PLEASE SEND THE FOLLOWING MATERIAL 'Wﬁttens and Cats"

 

 

-——4éiunneaauuaAamzhmaaiégy;—4yuiiameJDog_and

—‘ I I v 0

listing for future publications.

210 W. De La Guerra 0 R0. Box Y 0 Santa Barbara, CA 93102 O (805) 965—1832

 

 

 




\_,

'-_ .1 \
. \ ‘
WeédOWbI’bok CPI’éSS

Subject: FREE STUFF FOR KIDS

Dear SUppTier,

Thanks for sending us your item(s) for the next edition of FREE STUFF

, FOR KIDS. We've Tooked at Tots of products in the Tast few weeks, and
we think that what you've sent us is bound to appeaT to kids—~it's
educationaT, originaT, or just p1ain fun (and many, of course, are a11
threel). So we're happy to be abTe to inc1ude you in the book. "

....~.-. . .. v ..._. ..__. .._ _..

TWe're a1$o very serious about being responsibTe pubTishers as we11. FREE
STUFF shows every sign of turning into an ”institution" 1ike the

Guiness Book of Records; we see it and its future editions continuing

for years if we do our job we11. But to succeed that way it's got to
work, both for kids and fOr you. '

As we've said, we expect saTes to reach 250,000 — 500,000 before 1980
is over. We've suggested that the rate of requests cou1d range from 1%
to 10%, or in other words, up to 50,000 individuaT requests (depending
on the appea1 of each item) in the next 15 months.

-.1 think you'11 be ab1e to judge in a month's time (after pubTication)
how demand wi11 go for your item(s). A11 that we ask is that you try to
keep the item(s) in stock over the next year. In case you run out
of an item you have 1isted, remember that you may substitute other
materia1s, as 1ong as they are suitab1e for chderen. If that's impossibTe,
it woqu be nice if you cou1d te11 chi1dren you are out, but we recognize
that you may not have faci1ities for doing so. P1ease do inform u§_
if you run out, and p1ease send sampTes of substitute items, since we
want to h01d up our end of this p1edge, which appears in a11 new printings
of the book:

OUR PLEDGE

We have coTTected the best free and up-to-a—doTTar

offers that we cou1d find. We have examined every singTe
item. We don't think you'11 be disappointed when

you send away for things (though mistakes do happen)
because every suppTier of items in this book has
promised, in writing, to honor singTe requests through
1980 —— and beyond, as Tong as suppTies 1ast.

I have enc10$ed.a reTease form for you to sign and return by September 25,
1979. I hope that FREE STUFF FOR KIDS provides you with a heTpfuT way of
getting your message or item(s) into the hands of chderen. P1ease contact
me if you have any questions; 1'11 do my best to answer them,

Cordia11y,

7);. é/mg/

Tom Grady
Assistant Editor

16640 Moadowbrook ton. Wayroia. Mn 65391 (61?) 933 6005

 




 

'When theworld gathers in Lake Placid and Moscow
for the 1980 Olympic Games, you can find out just
how your fellow Americans got there with the freebie
ion page 8. '

CHERRY PIE - There’s no better ..

way to celebrate Washington’s

Birthday than with a big slice of

cherry pie. Learn to make one

the easy way with the freebie on
. page 5.

SOME LIKE IT HOT - That’s why
'we’re offering a freebie on insu-
lating your home for the cold
winter months. See page 6.

LIVE AND LET DYE - If you want to

. learn more about dye-craft in
countries like Japan, China and
India, here’s a freebie for you on
page 14.

. FOR ART’S SAKE - If you have a
budding Michelangelo around
the house, here’s a guide on
page 13 telling him or her how
to make their own gifts and .

‘ decorations with play clay.

INSURE YOUR MEAT - Only
Adolph’s would offer an insur-
ance policy for beef, and you
can find out about this premium
offer on page 5. ‘

 




 

   

_, FREEBIES job is to find, investi-
gate and report-for the interest
and benefit of its readers—the best
free and for—a—small—postage—and-
handling-fee offers available. The
editors screen offers carefully before
they are published to make sure that

~ the item offered is as described and
that the company or organization
making the offer is prepared to honor
requests from FREEBIES readers.

In this time of rising costs—— printing,
postage, salaries—you will find that
some offers require a small fee for'
postage and handling or a self-
addressed, stamped envelope. We have

kept the offers to only those that do
not go over $1.00. ‘

Companies are anxious for you to
try their products and are interested
in helping the consumer wade through
a myriad of information. That is why
they make these offers to the public.
We appreciate their continued
support and cooperation, and, if we all
try to work together, hopefully, the
offers will continue. - ’

FREEBIES

FREEBIES Philosophy

’ How To Get the Most out.» FSREEBIE

FREEBIES should be thought of by

' our readers as a tool and as is the case

with any tool there’s a right way and
a wrong way to use it. Byobserving
these few basic do’s and don’ts, you’ll
get the free offers you order more
quickly—with fewer delays and hassles.

l) WRITE THE SOURCE. Every article
lists the name and address-where you
can obtain the freebie. Please do not
send your requests to FREEBIES.

2) SELECT CAREFULLY. Make your

- selections thoughtfully, almost as if

you were buying from a mail order
catalog, because in a sense you are.
Every item you send for costs you at
least 15¢ for. postage alone. It can add
up. So be choosey. Send for those
things you really want. Freebies are a
wonderful bonanza, but, if abused,
they’ll quickly disappear.

3) FOLLOW DIRECTIONS. Precisely.
We’ve simplified our directions by out-
lining at the conclusion of each
article exactly what to ask for, what to
send and where to send your request.
If a source making an offer wants
your request on a postcard, send a
postcard. If they ask for a SASE (self—
addressed, stamped envelope), oblige
them, even to the point of sending the
correct size, be it business size (# 10)
or one larger or smaller. Also include
the proper postage and/ or any nominal
fees requested. This helps reduce
handling time and expense, and if you
don’t, you may not receive a reply.
Plus, he sure to type or print legibly
and include your complete name,
address in the body of your letter or
postcard, as well as on the “front for

a return address. If you are asked to
send 25¢ or 50¢ in coin, tape your
coins to your letter or to a piece of A

 

 

Volume 3 No. 23 January 1980

 

Publisher Circulation Director
GENE ZANNON GAIL MORSE
Editor Researcher
DON WEINER MARY STONE
, Managing Editor General Manager

JEAN MANGUS LESLIE A. KELLEHER

Special Features Editor .
CANDI MACCONAUGHA

Art/Design
TOM GOULD

Staff Associate
PAMELA REDDING

 

 

 

thin cardboard so that they don’t slide
around and accidentally tear Open the
envelope.

_ 4) ASK ONLY FOR WHAT YOU CAN

USE. As a general rule, don’t ask for
more than one. Unless, of course, you’re
a teacher with a classroom full of kids,
and the article says it’s OK. In that case
it is a good idea to send your request on
letterhead stationery and explain your
specific needs. ’
5) BE PATIENT. You should allow
at least four weeks for a reply, and
even then it may be more like six
In some cases, however, you will be
surprised by a quick response. After
eight weeks, then begin to worry. Keep
in mind that if the free offer is a good
one—and you wouldn’t be interested
if it weren’t—the company or organ-
ization making the offer is probably
besieged by other‘FREEBIES readers!
Many items will be sent by third or
fourth class mail, which gets where it’s
going, but slowly.
6) BE PROMPT. Many times a freebie
will be available for a limited period of
time because of short supply, season-
ality, or because it’s part of a special
offer. Write promptly and you'll have a
better chance of getting what you want.
7) TALK BACK. When you receive free-
bies that are particularly good or help—
‘ful, let the suppliers know. They’ ll
appreciate hearing from you and will
likely be encouraged to provide other
freebies in the future.

Let us know if you don't hear from a

' company or organization, or if the free

item turns out to be decidedly less than
what you’ve been led to believe. Some-
times it happens. The FREEBIES staff
is always anxious to hear from its
readers—good or bad.

Copyright 1980 FREEBIES PUBLISHING
COMPANY. No part of this material may be
reproduced without written permission.

Second Class Postage paid at Santa Barbara.
California. USPS Publication “‘429—290. ISSN
0148-2092.

All correspondence (INCLUDING POSTAL
FORM 3579) should be sent to FREEBIES. P.0-
Boa Y. Santa Barbara. CA 93102. Editorial
ofﬁces are located at 210 W. De La Guerra.
Santa Barbara. CA 93101.

' FREEBIES is a registered trademark of

FREEBIES PUBLISHING COMPANY.

Published monthly by FREEBIES PUB

LISB-
ING COMPANY. P.O. Box Y. Santa Barbara. CA
93102 (210 W. De La Guerra).

h....ﬂ-.--.—_—-——-_~__
M
\—

_%__~_ _‘“_>er _ '<4

 

Ar. 2,; \..— ' p 21.; L . A: .
/

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

NUMBER TWENTY-THREE 3
Contents
EDITOR’S NOTEBOOK
I, for one, always feel a certain sense Features ‘13 PTA TV Guide
of invigoration and revitalization at What shows should ou allow
New Year’s time, especially when that 5 F°°d and Drink 7 your children to wat3ch? The
new year heralds the start of a new Learn about recipes for pies, / PTA has some guidelines for .
decade. There is no better time totake cooking with peanuts and get a you. , /
a good look at things and contemplate free sample of Adolph’s meat ‘ '
those changes that will help improve ,tenderizer with a unique insur— . 13 / Arts and Crafts Guides
oneself and one’s well-being. We at ance policy. ' Your children can make BVCI‘Y-
FREEBIES have been Spending the 6 Freebies for the Home ._ . thing from Jewelry to f1“? Pails
past few months going through just Everything from home insulation Wlth these freebies from Arm
such a process. We’ve been analyzing, to free Cleaning aids, from tips and Hammer. .
critiquing and plotting new directions 1 3 Travel Guides .

which will make our magazine more
beneficial to those who matter the
most to us—our readers.

While subtle changes have been
made in the last few issues, this
edition features a noticeable new look
for FREEBIES. First, we’ve added four
pages and have plans to increase our
size even further in the coming
months. Another fresh change is the
new emphasis on departmental-
ization. You’ll notice that we’ve added
several new sections called “Food and
Drink." “Freebies for the Home,”
“Freebies for Teachers,” and “Feel

Good, Look Good.” We’ve also added a ’

contents page, a preview of next issue
and a backcover feature that will save
you the effort of addressing your

FREEBIES’ requests. We have plans to I

launch other new departments during
the next year dealing with such

specialized areas as travel, consumer

affairs and finance, among other
topics of interest.

We hope that this new approach will
help FREEBIES live up to its stated
goal Of being a service to our readers.
By restructuring, we now have a place
for everything. If you only have an
interest in those articles dealing with
household needs, you no longer have
to sift through several pages to cull

those specialized stories. If you are a ,
_ teacher, you‘ll probably turn'directly

to our “Freebies for Teachers”.and “Kid
Stuff " departments.

Since our aim is to provide useful
information in an easily accessible

' format. we hope you are pleased that

we are making every effort to honor
that commitment. So read through
this issue and enjoy FREEBIES, but
more important, use it.

Don Weiner
Editor

on gardening to consumer ,
handbooks on buying furniture.

8 Olympic Guide

Here’s everything you alWays
wanted to know about the
Olympics, but didn't know who
to ask '

8 Cooking and Beauty Aids _

Learn how to use avocados
for everything from salads to
shampoo.

8 Reaching Elected Oﬁcials
If you have a gripe for your
senator or congressman, here’s
a list of addresses to write to.

9 Services Co-op .

Everything‘in this club is free
for the asking.

9 Vacation Brochures
Find out all the facts on
luxury liners before you‘plan
your next vacation.

9 Restoration Guide

Read this before you fix up
an old house.

10 Special Report

The Library of Congress will

. gladly provide tracer bullets
on different areas of interest
within the field of science.

12 Consumer Protection

The Federal Reserve System has
a booklet all about credit
protection ’ laws.

1 2 Retirement Guide
You may be years away from
retiring, but you should start
making thbse plans now.

12 Flag Etiquette
Find out about the do’s and
don’ts of the Stars and Stripes.

.14

15

16

17

2 .

2
3
4
4

If you’re looking for a unique
vacation experience, check out
these adventurous ideas.

Freebies for Teachers

, Here are some educational aids

on dye-craft, cotton, and rubber. ,

Kid Stuﬂ‘

If your kids are looking for a
pen pal in a foreign country,
want to beCome junior forest
rangers, or want to have fun
with Sta-Flo starch containers,
here’s your section.

'Feel Good, Look Good

Here’s some advice on, shaping
your eyebrows and getting free
medical advice, plus an acne
medicine sample.

Free ’n Easy

Find out how to make your
own cleaning aids for your
bathroom, windows, and
kitchen. '

» Departments

How To Get the Most Out of
FREEBIES

FREEBIES Philosophy
Editor’s Notebook
Hotline

Update

18 Catalog Quest
19 Free for All
19 Coming Next Issue

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

FREEBIES

HOtline

 

HOTLINE is the connection between
. you and us. We look forward to '

. hearing about the things you like
and dislike about FREEBIES and
how you make use of particular
FREEBIES. .

We’re especially interested to find
out if you’ve noticed any difference
in the past few issues. We’ve been
telling you about the changes, both
big and small; we’d like you to tell us
if we’re making any headway.

We’d also like to. know what
freebies you Want. Before you buy a
book about frog raising or house
repairs, why not write us and ask if
there’s a freebie that would do the
job for you? We’ll look around and
see what can be found, and you’ll
read about it in HOTLINE.

Please type or write your letters
neatly and send them to FREEBIES
HOTLINE, PO. Box Y, Santa Barbara,
CA 93102. We’ll answer and print as
many of the letters as possible in this
column.

 

FREEBIES Free Sample
...For A Friend

Got a friend just as crazy about free

samples, booklets. and fun as you are?

Then, just fill in the coupon below.

Send us a SASE (# 10 envelope and 28¢

postage), and we’ll send your friend(s) a
free sample copy of FREEBIES.

In case you forgot our address. mail to:

FREEBIES Magazine
PO. Box 38
Santa Barbara. CA 93102

 

I ' FREEBIES Free Sample
I , ...For a Friend

IYes. I‘d like to send a free sample copy
of FREEBIES Magazine to the person
named below. I am enclosing a SASE

' envelope (#10) with 28¢ postage.

Name

 

Address

 

 

l
. IC
lC
State, Zip

 

 

A Good .Sport

I am enjoying my FREEBIES sub-
scription very much. In fact, in issue
No. 20, out of a possible 33 freebies
offered, I requested 29. Keep up the
good work' ’

Have you in the past or will you in
the future offer any sports freebies?
I‘m sure I’m not the only sports
enthusiast who subscribes to
FREEBIES.

Anthony Santini
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

(Editor’s Note: Since many of our
FREEBIES staff members are also
interested in sports and‘ physical
fitness, we’re always on the alert

for sports freebies. In this issue

you’ll find an offer for a booklet

about the United States Olympic
movement.
We’ve included several spOrts

I freebies in recent issues. Look back

at issue #20, and on page 12 you’ll
find a freebie for basketball fans
called Basketball Was Born Here.
Likewise. in issue # 19 we included
two sports- oriented freebies The
first was a book of running tips
called Where the Action Is and the
other was a physical fitness guide
by decathlon champion Bruce
Jenner.

In this issue we are featuring a
book all about the Olympic Games,
which, incidentally, will begin
in February. Next issue we’re going
to offer a giant poster of former
football great Bubba Smith

Ifyou get any tips on sports
freebies, please let us know.)

UPDATE

Change is inevitable, and that is the
reason for UPDATE. When informa-
tion or an offer for a freebie changes,
we will list the information in this
column. Also, if you, the reader, come
up with any important facts about
freebies we’ve offered in the past,
we’d like to hear about it so that we

' can alert other readers. Has an

address changed? Does a supplier
now have a postage and handling
fee? Has a company run low on its
supply of freebies? These are the
types of queStions we plan to deal
with in UPDATE.

New Numbers for Free Answers ‘
Here’s an update to the Special »
Report on Free Answers forAny
Questions in FREEBIES #20: The
new number for product safety is
800— 638- 8326. It was changed in the
summer of 1979;

The new number for venereal
disease questions, as of October 15,
1979, is 800—227-8922. The Ameri-
can Social Health Association has
taken over the contract from Opera-
tion Venus.

Carolyn Forsman
New York, New} York

‘ Freebies Reprints

FREEBIES has the following reprints
available. You may wish to order one
or several for yourself. We will also
be happy to send one or more to a
friend. Just send a SASE #10
envelope addressed to any other
person(s) you wish, including yourself.

Pets—tells all about owning a pet.
from first aid to traveling with your
animal.

The Carping Consumer—gives
government offices, including direc—
tor, address, and phone number,
where you can gripe to Uncle Sam if
you have a complaint with a
commercial company.

Travel—lists all 50 State Chambers
of Commerce (in case you’d like
information on visiting a different
state or even your own) plus a few
other assorted goodies to make your
trip more pleasurable.

Recipes—need some new ideas for
meals instead of the same old boring
oatmeal for breakfast, peanut butter
and jelly for lunch, and meat and ,,
potatoes for dinner? Then, check out
this reprint.

Careers—find out how to find
out what to be when you grow up.

, Directions: Send SASE (#10) ~ I

Ask For: Reprint(s) of Your Choice 4‘
Mail To: Freebies Reprints l
P. 0. Box 38 ” *
Santa Barbara, CA 93102 ,2;;l:1;’3'

 




 

 

NUMBER TWENTY-THREE

 

Food and {Drink x‘

We Wouldn’t Tell Any Lies About These Pies ' _

A Pair of NuttyFi'ee—Bies

If the peanut weren’t popular
enough, it sure got a boost when '
Jimmy Carter moved into the White
House. Why they’ve even taken to cal—
ling it the peanut the “All American
Nut.” And when you think about it,
that’s probably right. After all,
where would baseball be without
the peanut? Among the more
rewarding uses for peanuts, which 'it
turns out isn’t a nut at all but a
vegetable, is in creative cookery.
Here’s a pair of freebies that show
you how to include peanuts in every~
thing from casseroles to cookies.

, The bigger of the two recipe book’s
comes from the All American Nut
Company. And to keep the patriotic
theme intact, many of the reCipes ‘
have clever names like Thomas
Jefferson’s Peanut Soup, Surprise
Attack Dressing and Continental
. Congress Cola Salad. The booklet is
extensive and broken down into
sections for hors d’oeuvres, vege—
tables and salads, main dishes and
sweets. '

Just send a SASE (#10) to the
All American Nut Company, 16901
Valley View Street, Cerritos, CA
90701 and ask for the All American
Nut’s Recipe Book.

The second recipe guide is put to- » '

gether by the Georgia Peanut Coin-
mission. and although not as large
as the first, it nevertheless features
some delicious recipes. Foropeners,
there are Chinese chicken with pea-
nuts, broccoli nut casserole, cheese
nut ball appetizer with peanut but-
ter surprise cookies.

All you need to order Georgia Pea-
nut Recipes II is to send a.SASE
(# 10) to the Georgia Peanut Com-
mission, P.O. Box 967, Tifton, GA
31 794.

 

Whenever Washington’s Birthday
comes around there’s usually great

debate as to how one should go about‘

celebrating this national holiday.
Sure, you can go the entire day with-
out telling a lie, or you could go and
get fitted with some wooden dentures.
But if you want to celebrate it the way
the father of our country probably

did, we suggest you feast on a de-

licious cherry pie.

The easiest way to make that pie is
by following the simple instructions
in two new recipe books from

.Johnston’s. “The Dessert People,” as

they like to call themselves at
Johnston’s, have assembled some
three dozen recipes that all start
with either graham cracker or chocO-
late-ﬂavored Ready-Crust pie crusts.
On Washington’s Birthday you’ll
want to make the cherry cream cheese

 

pie featured in the booklets, but on
other occasions you might be tempted
to make southern pecan tarts, ice ’
cream sundae dazzler or maybe '
peanut, butter cream pie. That last
one would be good for Jimmy Carter’s
birthday. The easiest thing about all
theSe recipes is that all you have to
do is fill the ready-to-use pie crust
with the proper fixings, then slice it up
and serveit to your family and friends.
If there’s a more popular American
tradition than legal holidays, it has
to be desserts. And with these recipe
books, you’ll be ready for both.

Directions: Send 25¢
Ask For: Johnston’s Ready-Crust Pie
Recipe Books ,
Mail To: Johnston Dessert Company
' ’ PO. Box 691 ~ ' . ,
.Milwaukee, WI 53201

 

 

Satisfaction Guaranteed

There are insurance policies to protect
your home. your car and your family. ’
Now there’s one from Adolph’s, the
tenderizer people, that protects your
meat. That’s right. It’s called the
“Meat Insurance Policy” and it means
that ,Adolph's stands behind its

. famous tenderizer made from papaya

juice.

Actually, the policy is a 12-page leaf-
let that aids consumers in purchasing
the correct cut of beef for their
specialized needs. Another thrifty
helper is the bonus section on custom
cutting information. Learn how to
create four meals from a single beef

, blade roast. Get a steak and a pot

roast dinner from the same rump
roast. .

' Besides the brochure, Adolph’s will
send you a 10¢~off coupon and a
sample packet of tenderizer. Then you
can try some of the recipes
featured in the “Meat Insurance
Policy.” ’ .

The spiraling costs of all grocery
items today means that everyone has
to be a smart shopper. Here’s one
guide that will help keep food bills
in check .

Directions: Send a postcard.‘
Ask For: Meat Insurance Policy

Mail To: Adolph’s Booklet
P.O. Box 1009-A
Jefferson City, MO 65102

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

Spring cleaning may be a few

months away yet, but that doesn’t

mean you shouldn’t be keeping your '

home as tidy as possible, If you‘re in
the mood to clean up now, then send
off to the Texize Chemicals Company
for some of the helpful freebies
they’re making available.

Creative Homemaking is filled
with great .home care ideas from
Cynthia Lee in Texize’s Consumer

, Relations Department. She reminds

you to save money and time with
some very basic tips like under-
taking one cleaning assignment at a
time, organizing your various clean-
ing aids and rewarding yourself for
jobs well done. Ms. Lee will also tell
you how to clean your cookware

properly, how to keep your bathroom, -

in order and how to save money at

laundry time. She even has some

ideas on how to prepare for a trip.
Laundryis one of life's necessary

‘ evils and nothing seems more frus-

trating than when you finish your
wash only to find a stain still on a
shirt or pants. Texize will gladly send

 

emseng’ for Extra $$$ ,

Ginseng is a root that the ancient
Chinese supposedly valued more than
gold as it was considered the elixir of
life. Its magic powers include, in myth,
adding vigor, long life and strength.
Indians, the Asian variety, believe that

_ ginseng is a cure for malaria. Whatever

the truth, ginseng is a popular herb
with health food freaks around the
country and the world. It is a popular
additive to teas and some take it in reg-
ular doses like vitamins. If you’re an
avid gardener, you might consider

" growing ginseng for any of the above

reasons or for one that hits a little
closer to home—for a profit.

Barney Frye has put together a book-
let called Grow Ginseng for Profit,
in which he'explains that the plant
can be grown with very little work on

your part. Not only will he tell you how

to grow ginseng, but Barney will gladly
sell you the seeds as well, with a handy
order blank included in the booklet.
Ginseng used to be mainly an export
item in the US, but today American
manufacturers will pay you about $50

FREEBIES

/

FreebieSfOr the Home

you a stain chart that tells you the
right way to remove protein stains,
grease and oil stains and other
various stains. You can get a handy
stain-dial that identifies stains as
diverse as those from perfume to
felt-tip pen stains.

Those with children will also want
to ask for a, brochure called Crafty
Critters that shows how to transform
empty Texize product containers
into such things as mooseheads,
Fourth of July eagles and bird

- houses.

Send away for these freebies for a

- clean deal.

Directions: Send a postcard

Ask For: K2R Stain Dial
Crafty Critter Brochure
Creative Homemaking
Spray ‘n Wash Stain

Guide

Mail To: Consumer Relations
Texize Chemicals Co.
Box FBS

PO. Box 368
Greenville, SC 29602

 

.’ 'It‘ .
.

a pound for wild ginseng roots. There’s

even a case history of a ginseng ship-

ment being hijacked. Maybe it is as
valuable as gold.

Since this herb grows in all climates
and soil types, anyone interested in
picking up some extra income should
learn more about ginseng roots.

Directions: Send SASE (#10) ,
Ask For: Grow Ginseng for Profit

~Mail‘To: Bamey’s Ginseng Patch

Rt.2-JM
Montgomery City, MO
63361

unmy Costs

Fuel costs are skyrocketing and every-
one’s concerned with conserving
energy and dollars. When it comes to
trimming home heating bills, experts
agree that proper insulation is a must.
If you’ve already insulated your cellar
and attic to keep valuable heat from
escaping, then check out these two
freebies that explain the need to insu—
late your windows and doors.

Phifer—Western, the makers of
Sunscreen, will send you a sample of
their screening material and a descrip-
tive brochure that explains how to
install Sunscreen in existing screen
frames. Not only will it help cut utility
bills in wintertime, but Sunscreen
keeps air conditioning costs down in
summer. If you wish to find out more,
simply send a postcard to Phifer—
Western, 14408 East Nelson Avenue,
City of Industry, CA 91744 and ask
for the sample and brochure on Phifer—
glass Sunscreen.

Reynolds Aluminum also manufac-
tures solar screens and indoor storm
windows that could help you cut heat
loss up to 66%, and during warmer
weather will help cut the sun’s rays up
to 75%. In order to familiarize you with
just how easy it is to install these pro-
ducts, Reynolds will send you a guide
with illustrated step-by—step instal-
lation instructions. This booklet,
cleverly entitled Stop Throwing Fuel

, Dollars Out Your Window, shows not

only how to insert the screening mat-
erial into frames, but tells you how to
build the frames as well. For your free
guidebook send a postcard to Building
Products Division, Reynolds Alum-
inum, Richmond. VA 23261. Just ask
for the how—to brochure on do-it-
yourself solar screen materials;

Like real estate, utility bills aren’t
going to be getting any cheaper, so it"
makes sense for all of us to investigate
the differentways to save energy.

 

 

 

 

 




.r . .A “'1‘" ; ,~
“2- ._\~ ‘z’-><~’: ..
hadégff; ‘

. m

NUMBER TWENTY-THREE

 

 

 

Going to the Cleaners

 

Today’s fashions are made with so
many. different types of natural and
man-made fabrics that it almost ,
takes a scientist to figure out how to
clean your clothes. Should I launder
my cashmere sweater? Should I
dryclean my polyesters? One way to
get the answers without enrolling in
a chemistry class is with a new
booklet from the Better Business
Bureau.

Tips on Drycleaning is a com-
prehensive look at the drycleaning
business. It covers the gamut from
using discretion in buying Clothing
that is easily cleaned to the proper
upkeep of draperies. Of special inter—
est is a section on liability. In case
you return home from the dry—
cleaners only to find your garments
damaged through no fault of your
own, this guide lets you know how to
tell if the fault lies with the dry-
cleaning establishment, the manu-
facturer or the store where the gar-
ment was purchased. If, in fact, the
drycleaner is respOnsible then, you
are entitled to some sort of settle-
ment based on the remaining life
expectancy of the clothing. Also
included are guidelines for using
coin-operated drycleaning machines
and for getting out some spots at
home and completely forgetting the
expense of drycleaning.

If you consider yourself to be a
conscientious consumer, then Tips
on Drycleaning will keep you from”
inadvertently going to the cleaners.

Directions: Send a postcard
Ask For: Tips on Drycleaning
Mail To: Publications '
Council of Better Business
Bureaus, Inc.
1 1 50 1 7th Street, NW.
1 Washington, DC. 20036

Read These Before Buying Carpets, Sofas, choirs

Tax return time is coming up and
that means extra money to take care
of those things around the house
that you’ve been putting off. If you
Elan to buy new carpets or will be
shopping for sofas and chairs,
there are some booklets from
Monsanto that you’ll want to read
first.

Consumers who are in the market

for carpeting should send off for the

two brochures titled How To Select
Carpet for Your Home and How To
Clean and Care for Your New
Carpet Made with Ultron Nylon
Fiber.

Before making such major
investment, you should know about
color, style, value and performance
characteristics of different carpets.
Likewise, once you’ve installed a _
beautiful new carpet, the number,
one goal is to maintain its rich look. .
These guides tell how.

Monsanto points out that shop-
ping for a sofa or chair has never
been easy and with today’s
economy it is even more important

  
  

onouuo aurron runso
POLYURETHANE

. FILLED PAD OVER
CONVQLUTED SPRINGS
AN no a: canon

!— upon TO'ACNIEVE

so»: PILLOW somous

Pouunmur
an? cusmou

KILN DRIED
HARDWOOD FRAME

1'?
JOINTS DOUBL»

DOWE LED I GLUED

IO! PLEAT
WITH - WELT

w
shame-Eco: —- SiNGLE cont Y
sen smmos

to get the best'value around. To find
out how "to make an intelligent
purchase, here’s a booklet called ,
How To Buy Chairs and Sofas. You
should consider and rate thefabric
used to cover the chair or sofa, the
tailoring and workmanship, the
springs used, the construction and
the type of frame. A handy tally
sheet is included in the booklet so
that you are sure to get answers to
all the right questions before making
your purchase.

Smart consumers don’t rush into
buying carpets and furniture with--

‘ out investigating all the angles. By

sending away for these brochures,
you’ll find out how to get the best
deal.

Directions: Send a postcard
Ask FOr: How To Select Carpet for
Your Home and/ or
How To Clean and Care
for Your New Carpet
Mail To: Ultron Booklets
Monsanto Textiles Co.
320 Interstate North
Parkway
Atlanta. GA 30339

OR

Directions: Send 25¢ and SASE
(#1 0) ,

Ask For: How To Buy Chairs &
Sofas ‘

"Mail To: Monsanto Textiles Co.

1 1 1 4 Ave.of the Americas
New York, NY 10036

 

ProperCore for Your Pet

There’s a great deal that goes into
being a responsible pet owner, so if
you’re thinking of adding a dog or cat

’ to your family, be sure to send away for

two new brochures from the California
Veterinary Medical Association.

One of the full-color guides deals ,
with the proper care and training of
cats and dogs. It reminds you to keep
an eye out for your pet’s safety, tells
how to deal with birth control, outlines
the need for vaccinations against
rabies and distemper and lists other
tips of primary importance.

Love Means Making Your Pet Obey
the Law is the second brochure and as
its expliCit title implies, it is a listing
of the legal duties associated with ani—
mal ownership. You’ll learn that all ‘

dogs must be vaccinated and licensed,
that you’re responsible if your dog be-
comes a nuisance with incessant bark—
ing or by biting people and what
happens if your animal kills, wounds
or upsets livestock ~

Some would have you believe that
owning a pet simply means a lot of
love and Gravy Train but there’s more .
to it than that. Here’s a good way to
find out just what is involved.

. Directions: Send a SASE (#10)

Ask For: Pet Ownership Brochures ,

Mail To: Public Relations Department
California Veterinary .
Medical Association
1024 Country Club Drive
Moraga. CA 94556

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

FREEBIES

 

If you have an opinion on the SALT
treaty, s'chool busing, taxes or govern:
ment services, you want to be heard in
Washington. And since it’s not likely
that you will be heading there soon,
the best way to say your piece is
through the mail in a letter to your
senator or congressman. Especially in
this election year, let your voice be
heard. But before you get up on a soap‘
box, send away forHow To Be Heard in
Washington: A Guide to Speaking
Out Eﬂectively on Legislation. '
As the guide aptly points out, “Let-
ting our elected representatives know
what kinds of laws we want is a vital
part of our political system.” Published
by Western Union, the handy booklet
outlines such vehicles as personal
opinion telegrams and mailgram
service if you’ re in a hurry to say your
piece. Likewise, it tells exactly who to

It’s Olympic Time

" Soon the world’s top amateur athletes,
the international sporting press and
sports. fans from the four corners of
the globe will converge on Lake Placid,
New York. and Moscow for the games
of the Winter and Summer Olympics.
If you have an interest in finding out
just what the United States has been
doing to prepare for the Olympiad,
how athletes qualify for the games
or a recap of American performances
in recent Olympics, then here’ s a free-
bie just for you. ‘

The U. S. Olympic Committee has put
together an informative and compre-
hensive guidebook called, appro-
priately, “The Olympic Games.” It
features a capsulized history of the
Olympicsé—both the modern and
ancient versions-and a complete run—
down on the United States Olympic
effort. You’ll find out about the recent
establishment of national training
centers, the formation of the National
Sports Festival and the success of the
Olympic job opportunities program
for athletes. There’ s even a section on
the Pan American games where the
US. is still the most dominant
participant. .

For those with an interest in a par-
ticular sport, this guide lists all of the
member organizations of the US.

 

Features

- Speak Out and Be Heard

’ direct your opinions to in a'lengthy "

listing of all elected representatives,
starting with Jimmy Carter and end—

' ing with the delegates to the House of

Representatives from Guam and the
Virgin Islands.

Those who belong to special organ—
izations will find this guide to be of
particular benefit as it tells your group

how to keep an eye on legislation/that 4

is of prime interest.

Directions: Send a postcard

Ask For: How To Be Heard in
Washington '

Mail To: Western Union Corporation
Dept. FR~2
1 Lake Street
Upper Saddle River, NJ 07458

Olympic movement plus a breakdown
of the many sports that makeup the
Winter and Summer Games.

There has been great debate in this
country the past few years over the de-
creasing success enJ oyed by the United
States at the Olympic Games. Our
national pride has been punctured
by the competition provided by the
Soviet Union and East Germany
among others. Even Cuba has been
winning medals we once thought to be
ours. In order to get America back on
the right track. Congress passed the
Amateur Sports Act of 1978. The de-
tails and implications of this bold
move forward are discussed here at

. length.

This book will be a handy com—
panion through both Olympic
Games—Winter and Summer. It will be
there to help settle bets or clear up
references made by writers and sports
commentators. With the first events at
Lake Placid only a little over a month
away, you’ll want to get your request
for “The Olympic Games” off today.

Directions: Send a postcard
Ask For: The Olympic Games

Mail To: US. Olympic Committee
1 750 E. Boulder Street

Colorado Springs, CO 80909 ..

 

Getting the Most Out of

Avocados

Anyone who has tasted an avocado
knows that this garden delicacy pro-
vides the perfect touch for your salad
or can turn your left-overs into a
gourmet meal. But did you realize that

,, the avocado can also be used to

improve your complexion or wash your
hair? You can find out about both uses
with two new booklets entitled
Avocado—ry for 1 &2 and TheAvocado
Way.

Young couples or singles especially
will find a load of helpful hints in
Avocado—ry for 1 & 2. It lists over
a half dozen delicious recipes
especially designed for small-quantity
cooking. Try avocado yogurt soup or

' chicken salad in an avocado half—shell.
_You might like avocado omelets or

tuna burger with avocado topping. The
booklet also gives several tips on
picking and preparing avocados in -
addition to some of Barbara Swain’s
ideas on cooking for singles and
doubles. Ms. Swain, of course, is the
author of the book Cookery for 1 or 2.
The Avocado Way says that the
vitamin and mineral rich avocado can

be used all over the body, from head ‘

to toe. And the booklet goes on to de-
scribe special beauty aid treatments
involving avocados. It can be used as a
shampoo, a special face scrub treat-
ment or a moisturizing cream. All it
takes is a ripe avocado and a few in-
gredients found on any kitchen shelf.
One special treatment involves
rubbing yourself down with a mashed
avocado and salt after stepping into 7
the shower. Dead skin rubs right off,
even from elbows and knees, and the

special rubdown mixture helps clear .

up blemishes on the back and
shoulders.

Another idea is mixing a soft avo-
cado with milk and honey to create a
natural facial masque.

The beauty of using avocados as a re—
placement for traditional cosmetic
aids is that in a pinch you can always
use your shampoo as Green Goddess
salad dressing.

Directions: Send a postcard

Ask For: The Avocado Way or
Avocado-ry for 1 & 2

Mail To: Avocado Booklets
PO. Box 191 59
Irvine, CA 92713

 




 

NUMBER TWENTY—THREE

 

Take a Slow Boat

' Surely you’ve. seen all those fancy bro-

chures and advertisements promoting

. luxury cruises. There "are picturesiiofii/
people romping around in the Ship’s. . ._

pool, couples feasting on gourmet
meals, young lovers gazing out at ' .
breathtaking sunsets and friendly ,
natives in every port. But do you think

all those vacationers are really having,

a good time? You bet they are.
Many fantasize about cruising

around the Caribbean or the Mexican

Riviera, but most leave it at that, be—
believing that luxuiy cruises are for a
select few who can afford such extra-

' vagances. Not so, says a new b00klet .
from Cruise Lines International Asso- '

ciation called Is Cruising Really for
Me? By the time you add up hotel
costs, meal costs and recreational
costs, you realize that a shipboard

‘ vacation can be a bargain.

This handy booklet answers all your
questions about luxury cruises. It tells

you what to expect aboard ship, how to

preparefOr your trip, how to stay with-
in a budget and how to keep fit with
any of several different exercise pro-

. grams. If you’re single, there should be

plenty of new friends to meet. If you’re
a parent, there are lots of activities to
keep the children busy while you enjoy
yourself.

To order Is Cruising Really for Me?
write to Cruise Lines Intemational' ,
Association, 311 California Street.
San Francisco, CA 941 04. They will

, only send one per person.

For a straight—out sales pitch, excuse
the pun, you might also want to send
for another booklet entitled Cruise--
The Best Things in Life Are at Sea.
Packed with tempting color photo—
graphs, this brochure offers a more
vivid portrayal of just why these are ,
called luxury cruises. You’ll get a good
idea of how the other half lives when
you take your vacation at sea. Swaying
palm trees and turquoise waters
soothe the eyes, sumptuous gourmet
dishes await the palate and intriguing
ports of call offer adventure.

Send a postcard to Pacific Cruise
Conference, 311 California Street,
San Francisco, CA 941 04 and ask for
Cruise— The Best Things in LifeAre at
Sea.

It may be cold outside your home.
but somewhere in the world the sun is
shining. And you could be there living
like a king aboard a luxury liner. If
you have any doubts, just send for
these brochures.

Fix Up a Classic

One'of the quickest ways to turn a
profit is to buy a dilapidated old

building and restore it, especially

with the fixation we Americans seem _
to have fOr nostalgia. Clem Labine,
editor of The Old House Journal has
some. sound advice on restoration
projects in his free booklet, Guide-
lines forRestoring Old Buildings. ‘
The biggest mistake people make.

 

Share and Tell I . _

Long before money ever changed

. hands, man would trade goods and

services with his neighbors. Hunters
would cut deals with farmers, tailors
would trade clothing for candles,
and everyone would trade with the
winemakers. Life is a little more
complicated today and people need
more than beef, candlesticks and a
jug of wine to get by. We need
accountants, we need doctors, we
need lawyers and we need mech‘
anics. Now, thanks to a new organ-
ization called Free f0r All, .people like
that will gladly trade their services
for something you can offer.

Free for All is a non-profit services
co-op that is unlike conventional
barter systems in that members
freely share their services without
any hassles over accumulation of
credits or balancing of what is given
against what is received. Many serv-

. ices are available in excess. For

example, there are eight attorneys
offering legal services, and trans— ‘.
lators for fifteen different languages
are on call. ' ‘

There are social gatherings from
time to time for Free for All mem-
bers so that they can become
acquainted and relate to fellow-
members as more than names in a
listing. If you don’t have any partic-

““ular skills to offer, then it is allow-

able to offer merchandise or use of
your personal property. One couple

_ makes their hot tub available. Also,

it seems, is overdoing things when
they begin work on an old house.
Labine says there is no reason to. go '
ahead and rip out most'of the old ’
material only to replace it. Instead
he advises you to first take a .
“reading" of the building in question
to determine exactly what the needs
are.

His booklet contains some 84 do’s,
and don’ts, but the main theme ‘
seems to be don’t overdo it. Readers

. should note that this guide only

pertains to houses built before 1914.

Directions: Send 25¢ .
Ask For: Guidelines for Restoring
Old Buildings ' .
Mail To: The Old-House Journal
' Dept. 80
69A Seventh Avenue
Brooklyn. NY 11217

you won’t be overburdened with re-

quests because you limit the amount

of time you can devote in advance. '
Here’s a partial list of some of the '

diverse services offered: acting in-

struction. escort service, insults, sign
language instruction, musical enter—
tainment, martial arts instruction
and science tutoring.

All merchandise offered through
the club must be sold at cost and
members can use as many services
as they want, even if no one wants to
take advantage of their services. The
registration fee is $30, and there’s
an annual membership fee of $15.
Otherwise, everything is free. Right
now Free for All has 300 or so '
members in nine states, but that
number is growing all the time.

To find out more, ask Free for All
and they’ll send you "an informa—
tional packet which consists of an
info sheet, an index of services and
an application blank

It’s true that you rarely get some-
thing for nothing, but this sounds
like a greatway to get a lot of
different things without spending
money.

, Directions: Send a SASE'(#10)

Ask for: I nférmational Packet

Mail To: Free for All ‘
Department FB .
1623 Granville Avenue
Los Angeles, CA 90025

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

10 FREEBIES

 

The FREEBIQ

 

.What do dolphins and drug abuse, ginseng and
geothermal energy have in common? All have their very
own Tracer Bullet, published by the Library of
Congress. .

And what, you may reasonably ask, is a Tracer Bullet?
It’s a handy little reference booklet that does the ini-
tial sorting for you when you want to learn about
something new. If you’ve ever spent an afternoOn at
your local library trying to get started in the learning
department, you’ll know exactly what a timesaver one
can be. It’s like having your very own reference ,
librarian, ready to find you the most obscure but

. credible information on a host of obscure but credible

subjects.
Take Continental Drift, for example. Say you want to
find out everything there is to know on the slipping

. and sliding of the continents. After you look it up in

your library encyclopedia—easy ’cause it’s alphabet-
ized~where do you go next? There you sit, surrounded
by a sea of scientific journals, thousands of index cards
sorted according to Dewey Decimal, and row upon row
of textbooks whose titles can’t be Greek (they use
squiggly lines) but make just about as much sense.

'- Tracer Bullets to the rescue. This introductory
reading list—Number 75—16 for Continental Drift—tells
you which textbooks and articles are best to read,
where to find bibliographies and lesser entriesin the
encyclopedia, which subject headings to look under in'
the card catalog, and what organizations willsupply

. you with more information if you write to them.

The best part about getting a Tracer Bullet on any
one of the 104 subjects is that the Library of Congress
folks sort out the unimportant or insignificant
material on the topic. Without their help you just
might spend hours pulling together a lot of facts and
figures that miss the very heart of the matter.’

And, of course, all this help is free for the asking-—
just one more service from Uncle Sam. To keep the
Library of Congress staff from wasting their time,
however, they ask that you accompany your request for
a Tracer Bullet title with an address label. That way
they’ll just slap it on and and send it out to you. Send
your request by title and number.

Directions: Send self-addressed ‘
mailing label

C Ask For: Tracer Bullet by number

and title
Mail To: Library of Congress
Science & Technology Div.
. 5th FloorAnnex
Washington, DC 20540

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

\ “um” NUMBER TWENTY-THREE , ' 11

‘3' " 1 R t
pecia epor

TB No. Title TB No. Title —
72-1 Acupuncture 75-5 Weather Modification ”
7 2—2 Sickle Cell Anemia 75-6 Hydrogen as Fuel

. 72-3 Endangered Species (Animals) ' 75-7 Science in China -

. 72-4 Fresh-Water Ecology 75—8 Magnetohydrodynamic (MHD) Power Generation
72-5 Science POIiCY ’ 75—9 Diabetes Mellitus I
72-6 Biological Effects of Radiation 75-10 Biorhythms '
72—7 Rose Culture ‘ , 75-11 Kinesiologl
72—8 Mars (Planet) = . 75-12 Science Education in America
72-9 Nuclear Medicine . 75-13 Liquid Crystals
72-10. Maricultur e (Sea Farming) 75-14 Small Scale Water Power
72-1 1 ‘ Quasars 1 » 75-1 5 Energy Conservation in Building Design

7 2— 1 2 CATV (Community Antenna TV) 75-16 Continental Drift
72-13 Computer Output Microfilm 76-1 Administration & Management of Scientific &
7 2- 1 4 Algae Technical Libraries ‘
72-15 Dolphins , 76-2 Women in the Sciences
72-16 Scientific Careers 76-3 Home Food Preservation
7 2—1 7 Sharks ' 76-4 The History of Psychology
7 2-18 Metric System ‘ 76-5 Unconventional Sources of Protein
72—19 Medical Botany 76-6 Endangered Species (Plants)
72-20 Noise Pollution ' 76-7 Airships
73-1 Manned Undersea Research Stations 76-8 Fire Retardants

.73-2 Steam Engines * 76-9 Hydroponics
7 3—3 Venus 76-10 Hypertension
73—4 Artificial Intelligence 77-1 Industrial Safety and Health
73-5 Optical Illusions 7 7-2 Herbal and Folk Medicine
73-6 Ocean-Atmosphere Interaction ‘ 77-3 Microcomputers
73-7 Solar Energy 7 7-4 Allergy and Asthma
73-8 Geothermal Energl 77—5 Lead Poisoning
73—9 Telecommunication 77-6 ScienCe and Society
73-10 Edible Wild Plants 77-7 EnVironmental Education
73-11 Technological Forecasting 7 7-8 Tidal Energy
73-12 Food Additives 77-9 Cryobiol‘ogl
73-13 Human Evolution 77-10 Ginseng
7 3—14 Nondestructive Testing 1 7 7 —l 1 Climatic Change ‘
73-15 Technology Assessment 77-1 2 Inventions and Inventors
73— 1 6 Organic Gardening 7 7-13 Fiber Optics ‘
73-17 Wind Power ’ 77-14 Biographical Sources in the Sciences
73—18 History of Technology , 78-1 Recombinant DNA Controversy
73-19 Tidal Power ’ 78-2 Beekeeping
74-1 Earthquakes and Earthquake Prediction 7 8-3 -Astronomy and Astrophysics
74—2 Drug Abuse 78-4 Dryland Agriculture
74-3 Energy Crisis-An Overview . V, 78-5 Thermal Pollution ~ *’
J44 Science & Technology in 18th Century America 78-6 Rockets, Missiles, and Propellants
74-5 Coal Gasification 78-7 Marine Mammal Protection
74—6 Organic Fuels . 78-9 Hyperlipoproteinema
74-7 Privacy & Security in Computer Systems 7 8-10 Vitamins _
74-8 Ground Effect Machines (Air Cushion Vehicles, 78-11 SCience Fair Projects

etc.) 7 8-12 Poisonous Plants and Animals
74-9 Nuclear Safety 79-1 Adhesion and Adhesives
74-10 Aquaculture 79-2 Energr Resources in China
75-1 Herbs and Herb Gardening 79-3 Brain and Behavior
75-2 Remote Sensing—An Overview '
75-3 Human Bioclimatologl
75-4 Black Holes (Astronomy)
/ (Lt

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

12

Plan for Your Future New

Financial security. It’s something

. we’re all concerned with. but in
these times of runaway inﬂation it’s
next to impossible to prepare for.

The US. Bureau of Labor Statistics
claims that the Consumer Price
Index has increased over 87% since
1968. That means a couplewho re-
tired in 1968 on an income of
$15,000 actually needs $28,000 to
match the same standard of living.
While inﬂation is troublesome to
" people of all age ranges, it is particu—
larly acute problem with middle-
aged folks who very likely have al-
ready passed their peak earning
power. .

What this means is that everyone
should take time out before retire
ment to take a hard look at where he
or she is going financially and“, how
he or she wants to get there. Luckily,,
such planning need not be difficult
with this freebie from Action for
Independent Maturity. They have put
together some practical tips and
easy-to-use self—assessment charts in
a new guide titled AIM ’8 Guide to
Financial Security. AIM is the
nation’s largest supplier of pre-
retirement planning programs, and
their recommendations make a lot of
sense. The guidebook suggests five
basic steps to help ensure a secure
future: 1) Figure out your current net ,
worth; 2) Compare your income and ex—
penses today with your best guess as '-

FREEBIES

Features

to what they will be in the future; 3)
Figure out all of your retirement in-
come SOurces and, if inadequate,
start making plans to add to them;
4) Make plans to preserve yoursav—
ings for yourself and your next of
kin; and 5) Don’t delay, start taking
action now to make your future
years truly golden.

Not everything is as bleak as it

sounds. Personal property will rise in

value. Inﬂation will drive up your-
current paychecks and subsequent
‘pension checks. And Social Security
payments are expected to rise with
the Consumer Price Index But as -
any Boy Scout will tell you, it pays to
be prepared. , ~

Directions: Send a postcard
Ask For: AIM’s Guide to Financial.
Security '
Mail To: AIM .
‘ Department FS
PO. Box 2400
Long Beach, CA 90801 ,

 

 

 

 

    

 

 

 

 

 

 

Stars and Stripes ForeVer

It’s a grand old flag and if you’re

‘ going to be flying yours/to celebrate
Lincoln’s and Washington’s Birthdays
you may want to get this freebie from
the Veterans of Foreign Wars called
Etiquette of the Stars and Stripes.

Since Betsy Ross stitched the first

United States Flag, much has been
written in song and prose about one of
the oldest national standardsin the .
world. Did you know, for example,
that our, flag is older than both the
Union Jack of Great Britain and the
Tricolor of France. This booklet con-
tains a complete history of the flag,
the Pledge of Allegiance, the meaning
of the flag’s red, white and blue color
scheme and all of the rules and regu-

lations asSociated with the flag.
There’s information on when to dis- ,
play the flag and how to properly fold
it. And just in case you forgot the
words to The Star-Spangled Banner,
they are also included.

So fly your flag proudly, but be
sure to follow proper procedures.

Directions: Send a SASE ‘
Ask For: Etiquette of the Stars and
Stripes
Mail To: ‘Americanism Department
Veterans of Foreign Wars
National Headquarters
Broadway at 34th Street '
Kansas City, MO 64111

 

,, They Have To Give You

Credit

When Congress passed the Consumer
Credit Protection Act in 1968, it was
hailed as a piece of landmark legisla-
tion. The implications of the new
truth in lending law meant that cred-
itors were legally required to Outline
their terms in common language so
borrowers could not only understand
what they were getting into, but could

' shOp around for the best deal.

Since 1968 we’ve seen the im-
plementation of other regulations that
help protect borrowers. Now credit
companies must tell you why your
loan has been denied, discrimination
in credit transactions has been ban—
ned and borrowers are now given free
access to their credit records.

To clarify your rights before you go
out and borrow money, or even apply
for a new credit card, send away for
this freebie from the Federal Reserve
System called the Consumer H and-
book to Credit Protection Laws.
Within its pages you’ll learn that
single women can no longer be denied
credit cards, that you can straighten
out billing errors on your account
without ruining your credit rating and
that seniors won’t find the credit
faucets turned off once they reach 65.

There’s helpful information on the
cost of credit, applying for credit,
building a good credit record, cor-
recting credit mistakes and complain-

ing to government agencies over

problems with credit outfits. You’ll
get good answers to such common
questions as what to do when you lose
your credit cards and what creditors

’ look for before loaning money.

There was once a time when you
might have signed over your car and
home without knowing about it. That’s
no longer possible because of the new
consumer credit laws. Here’s a great
way to find out exactly what those are
without consulting an attorney.

Directions: Send a postcard

Ask For: Consumer Handbook to
Credit Protection Laws

Mail To: Publications Services
Division of Support
Services
Board of Governors
Federal Reserve System
Washington, DC. 20551

 




 

 

NUMBER TWENTY-THREE

13

 

Play Clay

W or No TV, That Is the Question

Nothing seems to irk a parent more
than a child who glues his or her eyes

L‘ to the television tubefor untold

 

Winter is obviously upon us and it
seems everyone is spending more time
around the house—including the kids.
We all know what kind of trouble
children can get into when there’s
nothing better to do, so heed the
words of that sage parent who once
obServed “Busy hands are happy
hands.” Send off for Arm and
Hammer’s brochure entitled Move
Over Michelangelo or How to Create
Your Own Gifts, Decorations and
Jewelry with Play Clay. , ,

Play clay is easy to make and all you
need is Some baking soda, corn starch
and water. Once you cook up the clay,
get the kids started on making but-
tons, plaques, pendants and neck-
laces. The guidebook also provides tips
for coloring and finishing the clay
craftwork.

If you also want to drill your child on
what to do in the event of some emer-
gency, say a fire, Arm & Hammer will
send you yet another helpful item.
They’re offering a fire pail label which
includes complete instructions for
dealing with small cooking fires, elec-
trical fires and minor burns. There’s a
place to list emergency telephone
numbers for the police, ambulances.
doctors and, of course, the fire depart—
ment. What’s more, there are direc-
tions on how to make a handy fire pail
with baking soda and an empty coffee
can.

Get the kids to spend some timeon
these handicraft projects and you
might just find that you have some
budding artists or firemen around the
house.

Directions: Send SASE (#10)-
Ask For: Move Over Michelangelo
and/ or .

Fire Pail Label

Mail To: Arm & Hammer
Dept. PC—F
PO. Box 369
Piscataway, NJ 08854

 

' . hours, especially when they’re watch-

ing programs filled with the usual
assortment of sex and violence that is

, so popular among today's screen-

writers. That’s why it's probably a good
idea for parents to restrict their child-

‘ren’s TV time and to censor any pro-

grams that are unacceptable for family

‘ Viewing.

In order to make an intelligent

assessment of just what is and is not

fit for children, the PTA has put to-
gether its TV Program Review Guide.
, Thousands of PTA members from
around the country have monitored
programs and their opinions have

‘been outlined in detail. Additionally,

each program is awarded a star rating

. which is so popular with movie critics. '

The best programs get four stars; the

. worst don’t get any.

You’ll find that shows like “World of
Disney,” “60 Minutes,” and “Eight Is
Enough” are ranked among
with the most commendable
overall quality.

—_

 
 
  

 

- ' --—.'_ ._-_

On the other end of the scale are
programs like “Dukes of Hazzard,”

"Three’s Company," and “The ROpers.”

“Charlie’s Angels” and “Hawaii Five-O”
rank among those with the most offen-
sive contents, while “Vegas” and
“Rockford Files” are considered some
of the most violent television shows.
The PTA even rates advertisers as to ‘
whether they are objectionable or

exemplary. It’s surprising to learn

that Coca-Cola and J.C. Penney are
considered unsatisfactory.

The opinions of PTA members
around the country are certainly not

' the final word on what you should and

shouldn’t allow your child to watch,
but they do provide background infor-
mation for parents who want to make
their own eduCated decisions.

Directions: Send 75¢
Ask For: TV Program Review Guide

Mail To: Publications Manager
The National PTA
700 N. Rush Street
Chicago, IL 6061 1

 

Make Your Vacation .an’ Adventure

The middle of winter may seem a
little early to start worrying about
vaéations, but if you’re like most
people you should start socking away
some money now for that two or three
week trip. It would help if you had an

idea just what you’re saving for, so why .

not send away for Adventures World-
wide 1980/81 ?

Prepared by the Adventure Center,
which specializes in unique intér— j
national travel, this colorful booklet
is a‘compilation of various adventure
journeys, expeditions and foot-treks.
Take note that these are not your typi-

 

 

 

 

cal tour packages. unless you call a ,
7 7-day camping tour taking you from
London to Kathmandu typical. Visit
Africa, Asia, Australia or South Ameri- .
ca. Hike through the Himalayas or
cross the Sahara. It sure beats a
weekend visit to the in-laws.

Plus there are several tips on how
you can cut your cost by signing up
early, signing up a friend or organizing
your own 1 leman expedition. The
sooner you make up your mind on just
where in the worldyou’d like to visit
this year, the sooner you can start
talking your friends into going with.
And if you have enough friends, you
might even get to go—for free._

Directions: Send a postcard

Ask for:Adventures Worldwide ’80/’81

Mail To: Adventure Center -
5540-F College Avenue
Oakland. CA 94618

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

l4

FREEBIES

 

 

“.an . . .

Freebies for Teacher :3

     
 

Get the Facts on Rubber

Teachers on the lookout for educa—
tional aids will want to take advantage
of.this informative freebie—a booklet
on the production, history and global
economics of rubber. Rubber is one of
the most versatile and basically
essential raw materials in the world
and it is found everywhere today from
industry, to communications and the
home. Since schools have been re—
questing in ormation on this topic
from the Firestone Tire and Rubber
Company, they have gathered the most
up-to—date facts on the subject and
assembled them into a 32-page book-
let titled Rubber.

The book tells us that the Indians
of Central and South America first
used rubber 500 years ago to make
their ‘Tlachtli’ ball used in a game that
resembles basketball, football and jai-
alai in various ways. We also learn
that the first practical use of rubber
was for pencil erasers. Then came tires
and the subsequent growth of the
rubber industry has been simply
phenomenal. All the reasons are dis—
cussed here in length.

Firestone will gladly send Rubber
to schools upon request through this
year. Send in now for a classroom aid
that will come in handy for years.

Directions: Send a postcard
Ask For: Rubber booklet

Mail To: Firestone Tire & Rubber Co.
Department of Public
Relations
Akron, OH 4431 7

 

 

Cotton Comes to Freebies

Not only is cotton one of our country’s
most important agricultural
products, but it has probably had more
inﬂuence on American history than
just about any other commodity.
Think back to the Civil War if you
have any doubts. Because of cotton’ 5
important role, there’s no getting
around discussions of it in every-
thing from social studies to current
events. That’s a very good reason
why teachers will want to order this
the National Cotton Council.

“Cotton from Field to Fabric” is a
three-foot by two-foot wall chart that
explains all the steps in the
production and use of cotton. It takes
you from the cotton fields, which are
now harvested by giant machinery
instead-of sharecroppers, to the mod-
ern cotton gins and spinning and

colorful and informative poster from ‘

weaving plants that turn out the
fabric used in so many of today s
fashions. You’ll find out just where
cotton is grown in the United States
and may be a bit surprised to find
that California and Arizona are
among the major producers in this
country. '
Nothing beats Visual aids as a

1 learning tool and if you find that

cotton is part of your curriculum
this year, send off for this p0ster.
But don’t be greedy, as the National
Cotton Council will only Send one .
per~ reader.

Directions: Send 50¢
Ask For: Cotton Wall Chart
Mail To: Public Relations Department
National Cotton Council
PO. Box 12285
, Memphis, TN 38112

 

The World or Dye-Craft "

RIT has put together some dye-craft
guides for teachers in need of special
lesson plan aids so that students
can shape up and dye right. The
three booklets being offered provide
excellent resource material for

cultural studies programs, as well as

practiCal information for art and
home economics students. Addition-
ally, each guidebook contains student
classroom projects.

The first in this series of dye- craft
in the classroom guides is called

' Japan and China. This 14-page

illustrated booklet provides back-
ground on ancient Japanese and
Chinese dye techniques as well as
material on major “resist” dyeing
techniques, clothing and color and
the ancient "Silk Road.” India is a
ten-page examination of dye-craft as
practiced in that ancient country.

‘ There are sections on cotton and its

inﬂuence on Indian culture and on
“bandhana,” which is reportedly the
oldest method of achieving a pattern
on fabric.

Finally, RIT has a booklet entitled
West Africa. It gives a complete
overview of Africa’s textile arts and
traditions, including its influence on '
African dress from the ancient past
to today’s‘colorful clothing. Some of
the student projects involve experi-
ments with natural dyes and making
such African apparel as dashikis.

.lappas and geles. What’s more, the

resist dyeing technique “adire” is
explained and adapted to a class-

. room learning situation.

Dye-craft is an art that dates back
to pre—historic man and is popular
in cultures around the world. These
fine booklets will help teachers and
students alike in understanding the

importance of dye—craft in three such
cultures.

Directions: Send 50¢ postage and
handling for any and/OT
all booklets

Ask For: Specific booklet(s)

Mail To: Dye—Craft

P.O. Box 307
Coventry, CT 06238

 




 

 

NUMBER TWENTY-THREE

is

 

Kid Stuff f

 

If you’re in grade school, you’ll be

interested in this exciting jprogram

we’ve just uncovered in our mailbox: ;_
It matches kids from one part of the ;~

country with kids who live some-
where else so that they can become .
pen pals. Most pen pal services pair
American and European letter
writers which provides a terrific
opportunity for learning but makes
the possibility of eventual face—to-
face meeting highly unlikely. But
because this service deals only in ‘
U.S. postal friends, there’s a pretty
good likelihood that a kid from
Buffalo can someday meet a pen pal
from Memphis. Sharing your
growing-up experiences with a kid
from another corner of the country
is truly a rewarding experience even
if you never actually get together.
You’d be surprised just how dif-
ferently fashions, hobbies, School
subjects and activities can be in
areas separated by a thousand miles
or so.

Directions: Send 10¢ and SASE
' (#1 0)
Ask For: Penpals Information

Mail To: American Sharing Program
388 Greenwood Street
Birmingham, MI 48009

 

Are you wOndering what all the talk
about “recycling for survival”is '
about? Well, Michael Recycle, a
comic book from Reynolds Alumi-
num, can provide you with all the
answers. Tossing soda cans along
the streets is not only an ugly habit,
it’s a Waste of good money. Alumi-
num cans, pie plates and freezer
containers can be melted down and
recast into a new generation of
aluminum goods. And to encourage
your turning in these recyclables,
Reynolds will pay you 20 cents for ,
each pound of metal goods collected.
So, if you start yOur own litter pick—
up service, you’ll have real dollars
jingling in your jeans. You can learn
all about it in this fun but factual
comic book.

Directions: Send a postcard

Ask For: Michael Recycle Comic
Book-

Mail To: Recycling PR Manager
Reynolds Metals Company
Box 27003 .
Richmond, VA 23261

What with permanent press fabrics
making the old-fashioned starch
bottle an endangered species, the
manufacturers of Sta-Flo figured ‘
they better come up with something
else to do with their product. And
what they came up with is a project
bonanza for kids! Fun with Sta-Flo _
Liquid Starch offers just enough
practical instruction to set you up

1 for doing your own thing in the art

department. For example, it shows
you how to make finger paints out of
liquid starch and powdered tempera
colors. And here’s a good suggestion:
mix the colors right on a paper plate
then swirl them around until you are
pleased with the effect. When the

‘ “paints” dry, you have an art, piece

ready for immediate hanging. String
art also takes form from a starch
beginning. Balloons are suggested as

an inexpensive yet sturdy baseifor ,
the starch-soaked string to be
wrapped around. When the string
dries, just pop the balloon._’l‘he
booklet tells yOu how to construct
more elaborate disappearing bases,
but we’ll save that tip as a surprise
for when you receive your copy.

, Other crafty ideas include things to

do with paper bags, stencils and
screen prints, and sponge art. In
each project the low Cost and simpli-
city allow lots of room for individual ..
creative expression. . '

Directions: Send 25¢ postage and

< handling
Ask For: Fun ’with Sta-Flo Liquid
Starch ' '
Mail To: Sta-Flo Booklet
A.E. Staley Mfg. Co.
22 Kensington Court
Oak Brook, IL 60521

 

Help Smokey stamp out forest fires
by becoming a Junior Forest Ranged
Every year thousands and thousands
of acres of timberland go up in
smoke because of human
carelessness; thousands of animals
lose their homes and their food
supply with every forest fire. But
there is something you can do to
prevent this tragic waste. Stay alert.
and help adults see how their
thoughtless habits—like tossing-
cigarettes from car windov‘vs and
leaving campfires unattended—‘ '
contribute to the burning of our
country. Smokey’s friends at the
Forest Service will send you a real

gold-like badge, bookmark, and set of

colorful stamps to identify you as
one of his helpers. You’ll also receive
a Junior Forest Ranger Certificate
which you can hang on your wall
another reminder to adults and
friends that everyone has to be
careful. And there’s a membership
card for you to carry in your wallet,
swearing that you've taken the

‘ Smokey oath. Just like Smokey says,

“Only you can prevent forest fires.”
Join the fight by joining the Junior

., Forest Rangers today.

Directions: Send a postcard
Ask For: Junior Forest Ranger Kit

Mail To: Smokey Bear
Washington, DC 20252

 

 

 

 




 

 

16

Health Experts Are on Call,

Here’s one sure way to get free medi-
cal advice—marry a doctor. Short of
that, the average person can expect to
~ pay handsomely for medical exper-
tise, unless Of Course their commu-
nity has a Tel-Med program.

Tel-Med is a service provided in
almost every state of the union. If you
need advice on a medical problem you
call a. Tel-Med number and ask to hear
any one of 300 different tapes dealing
with your specific'areas of concern.
The tapes are. prepared by physicians
' and are updated annually. There are
tapes dealing with everything from
sore throats to cancer and each pro-
vides practical information and facts
to the listener on whatever topic is
requested.

Medical bills are bad enough‘ that

FREEBIES

. Feel Good, Look Good

’

no one wants'to add to them by bother-
ing doétors with trivial questions.
Tel-Med gives you most of the infor-
mation your doctor would, but with—
out a bill at the end of the'month.

The greatest concentration of .Tel-

, Med programs is in California, but it

is also well represented in major
population centers throughout the
Midwest and East. For a complete

listing of all Tel-Med outlets, send in

to Freebies and we’ll get all the in-
formation off to you without delay.

‘ Directions: Send a SASE (#10)

Ask For: Tel-Med Freebie

Mail To: Freebies
PO. Box Y-23 .
Santa Barbara, CA 93102

 

Brows by an Expert

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Aida Grey is a beauty expert who has
authored a book .called TheAida Grey
Beauty Book, published by JP. Lip-
pincott, andin her expert opinion,
“Your eyebrows set the mood for your
whole face.” So, she is offering a freebie
that will help you learn the proper way

 

to shape your brows so that they best .

compliment your features.

“Ideally, eyebrows'should begin on a
line with the outside of the bridge of
the nose,” says Aida, “start to arch
directly over the iris and end halfway
between the hairline and the outer
corner of the eye.” But she twams that
brows should conform to your fea—
tures, so if your forehead is low, they
. should‘be lower, and, if your face is
round, angular brows will add Some
sharper edges. *

   

awn—v

 

 

 

0
F\ ("K
\
“NM” Will/0,. ~ ‘ 1,. I
1 £1

 

 

There are also things you can do to
compensate for a square face, for wear-
ing glasses or for having a narrow
face. The best’thing to do, if you want
to be sure just what would look good
on you, is to send a face-front snapshot
of yourself to Aida Grey and she’ll
send it back to you with a recom—
mendation on the best brow shape
for you. .

Surely, you’ve heard of getting'brow—

beat, but here’s an offer for your brows
that you can’t beat.

Directions: Send a face-front
snapshot ,
Ask For: Brow Shape Advice
Mail To; Aida Grey
95/49 Wilshire Blvd.
. Los Angeles, CA 90212.

Clear Fuace Facts

Pimples and acne are problems

, everyone faces during their teenage .

years. It is not known for sure
exactly what causes these skin
conditions, butthere are quite a few
products on the market that help
combat pimples. 'One such product
is, called Cleargram 4 and you can
get a trial size for the asking.

Cleargram 4 is made by Young
American, who will also send you a
booklet on skin care. Here’s how
Cleargram works. First it takes the
redness out of blemishes, it absorbs .
excess oil, it gently removes dead
skin and finally it cosmetically hides
pimples naturally without caking or
discoloration.

The informative brochure tells you
how to use Cleargram 4 properly and
adds a few other tips for keeping a
clear complexion. Did you know that
it helps to sit out in the sun or that
make-up and cold creams should be
avoided at all costs? Also, there are

certain colognes and perfumes that

you should stay away from, plus a
right and wrong way to wash your

-face.,There’s also some mention of

the dangers of picking away at your
face or wearing dirty sweatbands
that can deposit additional dirt and
oils on the skin.

There are no secret potions that

Will magically make pimples and

acne disappear, but products such

' as Cleargram help. And who can

beat the price?

Directions: Send a SASE (# 10 with
28¢ postage)

Ask For: Cleargram 4 Sample &
Brochure

Mail To: Young American
Department FB
200 Shaw Road _
North Branford, CT 06471.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

NUMBER TWENTY—THREE

Free ’n Easy

 

Anyone who’s. taken a stroll down
the aisles at the local supermarket
knows that prices are skyrocketing
out of sight. Now, you really don’t
have too much choice about spend-
ing money on necessities like food,
but you sure can cut back on the
amount of money you pay for house-
cleaning products. A dollar—eighty—
nine for a skimpy little jar of copper
cleaner? Ridiculous!

We’ve found a way to shine up .
your copper pots—and a lot of other
things around the house—using do—
it—yourself cleansers whipped up
from low—cost ingredients, most of
which are kitchen staples. Maybe the
‘ solutions don’t smell like lemons
picked off the tree, or roses from a
Victorian garden, but they certainly
do the job.

Let’s clean those copper pots and
pans right off. Take an old con-

! tainer—an empty liquid detergent
bottle is ideal—and fill it to the brim
with vinegar. Now add lots of table
salt (about 1/1 cup to an 8 oz bottle).
Every time you use the utensil, finish

its cleaning with a splash from your .

special vinegar bottle. Youdon't even
have to scrub! Tarnish, no matter
how long it’s been there, ﬂoats right
off. This treatment works just as well
on brass, too. If the dirty item can’t
be sloshed with ﬂuid, moisten a
towel with the solution and rub
lightly.

Vinegar is a terrific cleanser and
deodorizer. The next time you clean
the interior of your refrigerator, do it
with a solution of vinegar and warm
water. Not only will the walls wind
up sparkling, but you’ll be left with! a

__ fresh scent. No, it won’t smell like a. '

salad minusthe greens!
That same white vinegar and salt
combination makes scratches on‘

Formica counter tops disappear in a"

splash. It’s especially effective on
really stubborn stains like red wine
and berries. Another cleaning solu-‘
tion that dOes the trick is ammonia
mixed with a little dishwashing soap.
Pour some on the stain and let it sit:
overnight. Next morning you‘ll think.
that little elves worked in your

_ kitchen.

Liquid ammonia is one of the '
Oldest and least expensive cleaning
agents around. And it’s really power-
ful stuff. But never, never mix it with

- chlorine bleach Or you’ll produce a
chemical reaction that just might ‘

kill you. With that warning in mind,
here are some other things you can
do with ammonia, the versatile
cleaner-upper.

Place a saucer full of ammonia in
a cool oven overnight and watch how

. easily even burnt on guck wipes

away the next morning. Use a rag
dampened with, more ammonia dil-
luted with some cold water and you
won’t even notice the fumes. It’s hot
water that has given ammonia such
a foul reputation.

If you’ve been buying those fancy
spray bottles 0f liquid cleaner for
removing fingerprints from walls
and grease from kitchen cupboards,
hang onto the bottles, but refill
them with this potent grime killer: 2
Tbs. ammonia, 2Tbs. dishwashing .

soap, and a quart of water. It Works

just as well as the high-priced spray,
but doesn’t leave a‘streak'

Want sparkling windows and
mirrors without the fuss and ex-
pense of spray cleaners? Combine
equal amounts of ammonia, rubbing
alcohol and water in a spray top
bottle. Guess what? You’ve just dup-
licated the familiar blue stuff found
in every grocery store. And rather
than use expensive paper towels to
whistle'up a shine on those win—
dows, either use dry-but-ready-for- ‘
the—laundry towels or crumpled-up
pieces of newspapers.

, Chlorine bleach is perhaps the
best bathroom cleaner yet invented
as long as you never use it with .
other cleaning products, especially
ammonia. If you have rust stains in
a toilet bowl, here’s a terrific way to
make them vanish. Dump a bucket
of water into the toilet so that the
water level drops. (Trust us, it will
without ﬂushing.) Then soak paper.
towels with chlorine bleach and lay
strips atop the stains. They'll stay in
position because of the moisture
Depending on the severity of your
stains, it will take from 15 minutes
to an hour or so for the stains to
come clean. Just keep checking and
when they’re gone, remove the paper
towels and flush the toilet.

A fifty-fifty solution of chlorine
bleach and water will also remove
mildew stains from the grouting
between tiles. Pour on a liberal

amount, slosh it around, then let it _
stand for 10 to 15 minutes. If your
stains are on vertical walls, use the
saturated paper toWel trick again-
although you may have to hold the
towel in position until the mildew
disappears. By the way, the best way
to deal with mildew is to never let it
get Started. Try to get in the habit of
quickly drying shower and tub walls
before you get out. If you keep one
towel available for just this purpose,
you’ll never have to scrub again.

A solution of chlorine bleach,
dishWashing soap and warm water
will get your kitchen and bathroom
ﬂoors cleaner than they've everbeen
before. We’ve found that the best way
to wash them is to apply the clean-
ing Solution liberally all over the
floor. Let the solvent stand for about
10 minutes, then mop up the resi—
due. This way there’s no scrubbing ,
necessaiy; the cleaner does all the
dirty work You’ll have to rinse the

‘ floor with clear water to get up

excess soap, but this step is. easy,
too, if you mop on cool water then
soak it up with ready-for—the—
washing-machine towels. (After all,
the towels are really clean since
they’re only used when you’re juSt
scrubbed in a shower or bath!)
Porcelain sinks that have been

4 scoured with abrasive cleaners at-

tract stains like a magnet. That’s
because the cleanser strips off the
protective finish, leaving a highly
porous surface. You can learn to
copy with inevitable stains in the
kitchen and bathroom by treating
them whenever you need a little ,
lemon juice in a recipe. After squeez-
ing the juice from fresh lemons, use
the cut remains of pulp and rind on
the stain. Leave the lemon half on
the stain until the Sink is clean and
shiny again. This may take as long
as overnight if your stain problem is

' really severe.

So, there you have it, a long list of
cleaning agents you can make your—

’ self and avoid spending a fortune at

the supermarket. None of them in-
volves more effort than the prettily
packaged stuff, but the results pack
a built- in bonus: you did it yourself,
and that’s the attitude FREEBIES
tries to promOte. .

' By Candi MacConahgha

 




 

FREEBIES

’ Catalog Quest

 

Sometimes you can spend days look—
ing for a particular specialty item
that would simplify some part of
your life. Well, we’ve found a catalog
that‘offers a raft of them by mail.
The Catalog of Unusual Items
boasts such offerings as needle
threaders, a ball point pen necklace,
phone locks and never-run—out
lighters. One never-fail lighter is
shaped like an, oversized kitchen
safety match. You just unscrew the
metal cap, strike it on the side and
presto! ‘... it’s lit. There are also pages
. and pages of gag gifts, funny inex-
pensive things like talking teeth and
crooked cards that are sure to get a

r

What has to be the cutest catalog .
we’ve ever seen comes to you from
Lucy’s Have a Heart in Cambridge,
Massachusetts. Have a Heart is ded-
icated to the premise that everyone
should have a heart. Mugs, picture
frames, canvas totes, T—shirts, even a
piggy bank come decorated with
these fat, cuddly symbols of affec—
tion. And what could be more
appropriate since Valentine’s Day is
right [around the calendar? It’s hard
to pick a favorite from the charming
illustrations and photographs, but
one that’s certainly on our list is a
teaset.: two mugs, a teapot, creamer
and sugar bowl sporting not just a
big red heart on each but also two

giggle. Most of the items mentioned. .
however, are real time or lifesavers.
Like the blinking safety light that
you can attach to your car during
trouble, or thedish-o-matic, a self—
contained unit that you fill with .
dishwasher soap and scrub away a
week's worth of dirty dishes. If you’re
having a hard time finding an un-
usual gift or gadget, this easy—to—get
free catalog is the place to look. ,

Directions: Send a SASE (#1 0)
Ask For: Catalog of Unusual Items .
Mail To: C & G, Inc.

Box 1201A

Wilmington, NC 28402

 

The Know How Catalog gives you.
theiOwdown on hundreds of very
inexpensive instructional booklets,
pamphlets and brochures that you
can send away for. The topics span a
wide variety of subjects and all are
pointed toward making your life a
little easier. For example, Food
Chain, Spiders, and Microbes are
just three titles from a special sec—
tion aimed at teenaged would-be
scientists. Each 32-page booklet in
this series tells the student how to
observe and experiment with dif- '2
ferent aspects of nature. In that
same series are over 30 4-H publica-
tions, everything from building a
pigeon loft to labelling and storing
an insectcolleCtion. Lest you think
this catalog is just for kids. read on.
There are booklets available on
credit, food preservation, gardening,
soil management, pest control. and
heusing, among others. Under gar-
dening, you’ll find pamphlets on
tomato diseases, organic gardening,
herbs, and ornamental gourds. Why '
there’s even one booklet called
Fusarium Yellows of Cabbage and
Related Crops. Huh? If you need the
know-how on an environmental or
ecological problem, this catalog is
the place to begin.

Directions: Send a postcard
Ask For: Know How Catalog
Mail To: Mailing Room

7 Research Park

Cornell University
Ithaca. NY 14850

' of items that will help you know

.There are barometers of every size

_ home. In addition to the tools of the

' Forecasts. Famines and Freezes,

little feet outfitted in Mary—James.
There are Lolita—like heart~shaped
sunglasses and heart—shaped cake-
pans; potholders—cold hearts for
warm hands?-—and satin heart—
shaped pillows trimmed in lace. Lucy
also specializes in canvas catch-alls.
Each one is custom crafted and
designed to solve any one of a
number of storage or portage prob-
lems. Garment bags. brief cases, log
carriers, tennis totes, there’s a wide
selection, all with or without the

_ heart applique. Why even the pages

, in this catalog are heart-shaped!

Whether or not the weather does
what it's supposed to do matters a
lot this time; of year. It’s supposed to
give us fair warning before foul
storms and produce just enough
cold air to prime the ground for
warm weather crops. Unfortunately,
the old weatherman-in-charge rarely
cooperates, but we‘ve found a catalog

when a storm’s in store. Called
Weatherwise, it lists books and in-
struments that forecast for you.

and shape, Weather alert radios that
sound an alarm when conditions get
ominous, wind speed indicators and
gauges, hydrometers for measuring
indoor and outdoor humidity, and, of
course, enough thermometers to put
a different one in way room of your

Directions: Send 50¢ postage
and handling
Ask For: Lucy’s Canvas/Have a
Heart Catalog
Mail To: Lucy’s Canvas
1 35 Huron Ave.
Cambridge, MA 02138

trade, there are also listings for a
number of books that clarify the
weather picture. Books like Tornado,

and The Cooling (which asks if the
next Ice Age has already begun)

don’t paint too pretty a picture of
Mother Nature when she’s cranky.
But others give you a general intro-
duction to what makes the sunshine,
and that’s pretty easy reading.

Directions: Send 50¢ postage
and handling
Ask For: Weatherwise Books &
. Instruments
Mail To: Weatherwise
Dept. F
Main Street
, New London, NH 03257

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

NUMBER TWENTY— THREE

1'9

 

Free for All

 

(Editor’s Note: This column is a com?
pilation of various oﬁers that are of
only specialized interest. Some are
nothing more than catalogues for
speciﬁc product lines. Others haven’t
necessarily been checked out for their
authenticity by the FREEBIES staff.
Nevertheless these listings are in-
cluded as a reader service.)

0 “Traveler” brand, products make
everything from non-mildew shower
curtains to non-allergenic pillows. For
a complete catalogue send a postcard
to: Aim-Co, 9126 Galveston Avenue,
Jacksonville, Florida 32211.

0 Need a date? If you already have a
bunch then send away for A Modern
Almanac of Date Recipes. Simply

send a postcard to: Bordo Product Co.,'

 

MOVING?

If you’re moving, please let us know
six weeks in advance. That way, you’ll

be assured of receiving your Freebies ‘

Magazine without interruption.

FILL IN YOUR NEW ADDRESS
BELOW, AND ATTACH YOUR OLD
LABEL IN THE SPACE PROVIDED.

 

illti Address New Address

 

 

 

 

Affix mailing label of the last issue of

 

g r:
l ~33
l m
i no
; as
I E
i '5 9
i , m ‘
i E. a N
I a) r‘
S...
‘ E 'o >~ 9*"
w CU
m 'U M L
A”- 2 <2 U U:
MailTo:

Freebies Magazine
Address Correction
PO. Box Y

 

Santa Barbara, CA 93102

2825 N. Shefﬁeld Ave., Chicago, IL

60657.

0 If you’re in the market for shock
absorbers, KONI Shocks will send
you their Catalogue which lists prices
and the correct shock for your model
car. Also they’ll throw in some KONI
decals. Just send a postCard with your
request to: Kensington Products Cor-
poration, 163 South Street, H acken-
sack, NJ 07601 and ask for the KONI
brochure and decal oﬁer.

I You may not feel like joining the
Army, but you can still get a pair of
dog tags to wear around your neck.
Simply stop in at your local Army re-
cruiting office, fill out a short form
and the recruiting officer will give
you a pair of his/her dog tags. The
address of your nearest army recrui-
ter is in the yellow pages under “re-
cruiting.” '

O Spinning wheels are a great way to
make your own clothing and if you ‘
want to buy some wheels or any ..
supplies for one here’s a catalogue

, from Clemes and Clemes Incorpo-

rated. Send a postcard to: Clemes and
Clemes, Inc., 650 San-Pablo Ave.,
Pinol‘e, California 94564.

0 If you want to know more about
preserving and building assets
through the tax-benefits of oil ”and gas

' investments send off for this article

reprint from the Businessmen’s En-
ergy Income Fund, Inc. Address your
request to: Businessmen’s Energy In-
come Fund, 1733 Evergreen Street

NE, PO. Box 2068, Salem, Oregon
97308.

0 Anyone who has considered a
career in nursing will want this free
full-color brochure that explains how
today’s nurses are truly recognized
as vital partners on health care
teams. Send a postcard and ask for:
Nursing Brochure, Staff Builders, .
Health Care Services, 122‘East
42nd Street, New York, NY 1001 7.
Along the same lines, those who
have an interest in working in a ,
nursing home but would prefer to
check one out before making any
decisions, can get a free directory of
state nursing home associations.
Send a postcard to: Directory of
State Associations, Nursing Pro-
grams, American Health Care Asso-
ciation, 1200 15th Street, N. W.,
Washington, DC 20005.

O The Illustrated Encyclopedia of
20th Century Weapons and Warfare
is offering its first volume free. Billed
as “the most complete, most authori-
tative multi-volume reference of
modern armaments and combat ever
published,” it is packed full of in—
formation and facts on everything
from missiles to tanks. For full
information and an order form'out-
lining your obligations, sends a post-
card to: The Illustrated Encyclo-
pedia of 20th Century Weapons
and Warfare,1400 N. Fruitridge
Avenue, Box 1165, Terre Haute, IN
4781 1.

 

COMING NEXT ISSUE

0 There’s a way to trim up to 30%
off beef prices by cutting it yourself,
and you’ll learn how with the help of
a new booklet from the Oregon Beef
Council titled Cut a Little, Save a‘
Lot.

0 Money still doesn’t grow on
trees, but you can get some free
currency with an offer from Jolie
Coins. T 0 encourage and promote
the hobby of foreign coins/currency
,\ collecting, Jolie has an offer to send
you ten samples of coins and cur-
rency from such exotic places as
China, Indonesia, Hong Kong, Pak-
istan, India, Korea, Finland and the
Philippines.

 

' Accounts.

0 With Lincoln’s Birthday coming
up, you’ll want to know more about
one of our most famous leaders.
Next issue we’re offering a bobklet
entitled Abraham Lincoln, From His
Own Words and Contemporary

0 Ballet is one of the more ancient
arts and is still growing in popu—
larity. Wefeature a freebie in Feb
ruary with three booklets and a
bumper stickerfor aspiring ballet
dancers.

C And you can find out the facts
on pork with the help of detective
Sherlock Hog on a giant full-color
poster. '

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




FREEBIES Magazine ,
P.O. Box Y-23' ‘
Santa Barbara, CA 93102 ,

FREEBIES JANUARY FEATURES ,_

Freebies’ editors have selected, these items as being among the best and most timely in this issue. To use
this time—saving idea, we suggest that you clip out the labels below, and following the instructions for
mailing, glue or tape them to your envelope or postcard, and simply mail in your requests.

, No muss, no fuss! And it sure beats handwriting or typing all your requests.

K2r Stain Dial, Crafty Critter Brochure, Creative
Johnston’s Ready Crust Pie Recipe Books , Homemaking, Spray ’n Wash Stain Guide
Send 25¢ ‘ Send a Postcard

 

 

Johnston Dessert Co. _ Consumer Relations

PO. Box 691 - ‘ Texize Chemicals Company
Milwaukee, WI 53201 Box FBS

PO. Box 368

Greenville, SC 29601

 

 

 

 

 

 

Adventures Worldwide 1980/81 Olympic Guide
Send a Postcard Send a Postcard

 

 

Adventure Center _ US. Olympic Committee
5540-F College Avenue _ , 1750 E. Boulder Street
Oakland, CA 94618 ' Colorado Springs, CO 80909

 

 

 

 

 

 

Cotton Wall Chart , - Aida Grey shapes your eyebrows
Send 50¢ ~ , Send a front-face snapshot

 

 

‘ Public Relations Department Aida Grey
National Cotton Council , . 15/49 Wilshire Blvd.

PO. Box 1 2285 LOS Angeles, CA 90212
1 Memphis, TN 381 12

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

0
FREE STUFF FOR KIDS
REVISED RELEASE FORM - 1979-80

1

i

You havé our permission to list ”Kittens and Cats”(20¢) and ”You and Your Dog"(29¢)

 

.1

in FREE STUFF FOR KIDS: THE SECOND RAINBOW BOOK. We understand that 250,000 ~ A
500,000 copies are expected to be sold in l979-80. We agree to respond to requeSts
from children for one each of the above item(s) during l979-80. We reserve the
right to substitute another comparable item if necessary (if original subplies run
out or if the item is revised), and we will send samples of such items to Meadowbrook
Press if substitutions become necessary. We understand that we are responsible for
all mailing and handling of our item(s) and not Meadowbrook Press or the authors of
-FREE STUFF FOR KIDS.

C::Eg:kézz;4‘;§:;fi;;“h° Fhviqﬁing

Sigﬁature ‘ Print ‘h'a’ﬁi‘é

.President

Title/dept II'IIY‘P-L-l .T‘Te'lf‘e‘r’e Institute
. ° Organization

 

 

BOX 3650 Washington, D.C- 2000
Address.

 

City State Zip”

337-2333
' Phone
Full address for children to send to: .Aninuﬂ.‘ve1farwaiInstiithe ’ ,
(are you planning to code the ”
address to help identify requests?)
ﬂ/U Liashington’ D_[‘.'

_fP;Qvth:M£Q

 

Please note any fees for postage and handling or special mailing instructions 1 ,
(including stamped, self-addressed envelope, etc.) you would like us to mention.i

 

\

 

We are sending other items to be considered for inclusion in future
revisions of FREE STUFF FOR KIDS, or for FREE STUFF FOR TEENS or FREE
STUFF FOR PARENTS.

dune. l979

 

 




 

LAY 8 13m

QUESTIONNAIRE DEADLINE: (W 3 2137‘

 

I ‘ D I V F l ‘1
Name of organization or com any A 9“ WC" (/Vf Lil“ “C /l« ) TIT; 4/7“
Address I7 C o')( 3 (a go

I)

\Afﬂgkif‘g (on D C 2.0007 Z’UT’EIEST 2?} 2—

Please describe briefly the functions and scope of your organization or company: //(/m an? G’f/UCA'YLTDM 11-; faltrg _ f4 . J/j-eal“
IK‘UI‘Lic/d o h, }~h(W“OJ( £1 1‘ I4 M at. _PM£QL%*QM (/II/VI/‘L a 152 b {2-15 a ((14 (:42 f0 14 ﬁlm”...
“thaw. k (i_; 41%?11762’1’) in fqmlo Ulla _0h Agent 12ng (”dimer/5, wad/adv; f» ﬂair Ufa 1
JIM/inﬂnvwwin‘ Ih 17m rlr thawed 7- Mcnlﬂnfr Ede/t-é/Aﬂ—Il 5206 c110“ [407‘ aha, /W ”H
AQiil/ZLIM pr??? £79m Ad. J I ‘

 

Do your publications include the following? (Please check the formats you produce and indicate the number of titles in print in each category.)

No. Titles No. Titles No. Titles No. Titles
Format In Print Format In Print Format In Print Format In Print

X Books [2 Audiocassettes Filmstrips X Posters I
or tapes " '—

X Pamphlets ZS Audiodiscs __ Multimedia _
(records) Kits SlIdes

Journals X Films lg g ____Phot09raphs _____Videotapes
5 Newsletters I

Other (Please describe)

Prints

 

(jut/41%
. 0“ Wu? cljfyawl n71.1/ pp~ZéL4uc’l( /’\,LA£ "\, me/BAMX
Do you offer an educational discount? Yes_X_ No '\ How much? 19 [l 4 WW» 1 L64 u'ldad ./ 524/442“ Lip/1%—
\i'mv 51' m] /\
if you are a membership organization, are libraries or schools eligible for membership? Yes X ”/Né

I 1’ ' . /' 0 . . . I
If yes, indicate yearly duesﬂf) :‘i/CI d 2.5 .fignd member discounts, If any, on publIcatIons:
7 I 7

 

Do you have a publications catalog? Yes A No __
PLEASE ATTACH CATALOG AND/OR LIST REPRESENTATIVE EXAMPLES OF YOUR PUBLlCATlONS:

BOOkS (consider any publication 60 pages or more in length a book. Include subtitles, full names of authors, publication dates, and prices.
Please indicate if a title is free.)

Pub. Member’s
. Author(s) _(_D__a_t_§__ Price Price
AM(mA/f t4 'ld T69 (" LCc'iA/ Kt‘Tqufr ELM/1‘77 Iku‘ﬁvf 190/77 féfziélrf 6/71? $12295
“Ill; Bird 73L. 5w. If C M in I [Vi/SJ cm 1:777 15 3-0—
Céuvntz't‘f‘a (/e Obzakkvf ’74,!” [4464/11 AWL! jHI’mn/J‘):€x1!lllij (0:1 [ﬁ7jf yZ M
(-715 S/‘L (“he CF E‘XfIC'IVLI-émltf/ 74—1/1in /5 f 5r“! “In lg‘ic {Iii

ﬁlm/MM Bib/arm 13'2“"th J Sew/4 ,1 «a Lupe-er 1977 we

\

Title

;

 

 

 

 

 

 




Pamphlets (Consider publications fewer than 60 pages in length pamphlets; include authors, if known, and prices.)

Author(s) Price Member's Price

an

/ 5"} ("tiff I00"? ‘5 85/! )1“— e" [2"] 4 LU] . its.
‘ [£257. Iv"’.i C’i/dr’m r“ 7132 o 0

1'" I a’ 14»!

5-‘1\(; 7:, 2119?}! SPF' ’/ £323.19 , F Vii)!" I} ﬁr", CI} lkvA’Y'

 

 

Journals and Newsletters

Number of
Issues per Year ' Member’s Price

[911:7 V’L'N 75144 E.) if”) VJ 4

Title

I

 

 

 

 

AUdIOVISUEI Materials (Please indicate the formats for each title listed, e.g. 16mm film, slide/tape set, audiocassette, etc., as well as

prices. State if materials are free loan.)
Sale Rental Member's Member's
Title Format Price Price Sale Price“ ‘_ Rental Price

——-—-—--—————

(,6? web/z); Alum/w; /é Mum i/g’b‘i Vy-alk
LmL 5' Vail/Roi 23 Mini—- M m We 3’75? ‘33— 15—61112
[Jamaal bigger/SE4, Wig, [é ,h I,“ gt m ‘3 way/e
cu 1M My?» lpL i, ru+ rim“ r/L, WM 5 [/7 a; wk
Lar‘f Ditv§ ll?L We Dir/{7L (Bur) /é 9mm» ¢/0 f’j: LWLé

Do you have any special information services, such as data banks, inquiry answering, telephone hot lines, etc., of potential interest to schools or

. libraries? Please'describe. N‘

 

 

 

 

Do’you provide any continuing education services to: members professionals in the field others
Please indicate the type of services: workshops seminars conferences courses

Is there another organization with programs similar to yours which you feel we should contact for inclusion in Sources?

Name

 

Address

 

Information Provided by biotin/£2. #‘J\ ’U C V 50 (A
_ Name
{46(D’I/LII/115N'lﬁI/T’e abs i’r fuel”

Title

PLEASE ENCLOSE WITH THIS QUESTIONNAIRE ANY CATALOGS, BROCHURES, MEMBERSHIP
INFORMATION, AND SAMPLE PUBLICATIONS YOU MAY HAVE, AND RETURN TO:

Maureen Crowley, Editor
Seurces

Neal-Schuman Publishers

64 University Place

New York, New York 10003

 




5' \'°

TITLE IMPOR

IATION DEPARTMENT

E ~ '
E ”9 .

FEEENS
‘ P 0 BOX 1:131 BIRMINGHAM, ALABAMA 35201 (205)2521212

' FFEE.

 

 

J T Steohens. Premdem
Cobie EBSCO

TeIephone (205, 2524212

wJanuarymww

«quarterlquwwu

.‘ if '10 Y SPY 'V‘CE‘ CU” pony '

re rodsco' goIes / EEE‘CO Sz'bscriptaon Sen»
3 J V' ; CNS Vu?’ or Bard:- & COVE V’ucor; ' ‘ ’
'0 I f 3‘

Indus"
yeOv'ese-c /V-\..c3nvrr;_

(es
EESCO ~.§’dIO
{MQExporl I'oC / Or

.133 I
Inc,

 

““500! A: e 7mm

0 .v m -3” Adve'ﬁszng / Educcvioncl Prcdxts /
/ S.-ES:D:AP::S ES: 0 .nveg‘">c"-‘ Ser‘uccg mr / 2'- an'nxr, Srzua’e
”£53 If mmo' A'WerIwr :EY-es, Fo ' E0 3?, 7:»in




I

,.Estab»lished . . 1
1934 V , Patricia H. Sutt 68

Publisher
414~326-3126

2321113311an ﬁrngreaa ﬁerhite, ﬁlm.

214 Center Street Reply to:
Randolph, Wisconsin 53956 Kathleen Suttles Nehmer
285 Park Drive
Randolph, Wisconsin 53956

EDUCATORS INDEX OF ,,,/Jé'ﬁiiary 12 , 1981
FREE MATERIALS /’
”/I

K
\\

>

. __-

_- -—"""" I
\:::_...., ._..—-«

4 Animal Welfare Institute
EDUCATORS GUIDE TO FREE P. 0. Box 3650
“LMS Washington, D.C. 20007

Gentlemen:

EDUCATgﬁggggsTO FREE The ELEMENTARY TEACHERS GUIDE To FREE CURRICULUM MATERIALS
is a bound book containing listings of booklets, pamphlets,
maps, charts, posters, books, exhibits, which various firms and
agencies are willing to furnish schools and libraries without

EDUCATORS GUIDE TO FREE Charge -
AUDIO AND VIDEO

MATERUUE; This ELEMENTARY TEACHERS GUIDE TO FREE CURRICUIMM MATERIALS
covers the elementary level only, but it does include a section
on "Teacher Reference and Professional Growth Materials."

EDUCATORSGRADE(HHDE . . . . .
TOPREETEACHDKEAHE We are now preparing a new annual edition of this serVIce

to include new materials and to delete listings of items no
longer available. We would appreciate your sending us, for
listing in the publication, any free materials you issue which
EDUCATORSGUHMSTOFREE you think would enrich school and library materials services.
SCIENCE MATERIALS
No charge or obligation is placed on the issuing agency
other than furnishing with reasonable promptness, the materials
requested during the next school year. Your wishes relative to
EDUCATORSGUHNZTOFREE any limitations or instructions will be included in the listing.
SOCIAL STUDIES Th . . . t . t 1 f 121'! d. t .b t" f th
“MKHHHALS e issuing agenCIes re ain con r0 0 e is ri u ion 0 e
materials.

We are enclosing a listing sheet which we would appreciate

EDUCATORSGUHNETOFREE your filling out and returning to us as soon as possible.
GUIDANCE MATERIALS

Thank you for your cooperation.

_ Sincerely yours,
EDUCATORSGUHMETOFREE

HEALTH, PHYSICAL EDUCATION .
AND RECREATION MATERIALS mum ’0 J WU
KSN:lw Kathleen Suttles Nehmer

ELEMENTARY TEACHERS GUIDE . Enc . Editor
TO FREE CURRICULUM
MATERIALS P S

 

When replying, please reply to me at my home address:
285 Park Drive, Randolph, Wisconsin 53956.

 




1

/V1 LISTING SHEET

I

A

for
ELEMENTARY TEACHERS GUIDE TO FREE CURRICULUM MATERIALS

The following information is desired for your listing in the ELEMENTARY TEACHERS GUIDE
TO.FREE CURRICULUM MATERIALS for the school year 1981—82.

NEW MATERIALS

 

Kindly add new items to this list. IMPORTANT: Send us copies of ALL materials
listed, fOr our permanent file.

Please return this sheet to Kathleen Suttles Nehmer, Editor, ELEMENTARY TEACHERS GUIDE
TO FREE CURRICULUM MATERIALS, 285 Park Drive, Randolph, Wisconsin 53956.

CORRECTIONS:
Please make necessary corrections to current listings shown below.

 

AVAILABILITY:

 

Cross out items no longer available.

RESTRICTIONS_QR_INSTRUCTIONS 9N DISTRIBUTION: (Please answer all questions)

 

 

 

Single copies ){ Limit of copies

Available in classroom quantities? Yes No

Available to professional staff only? Yes X: No .

Available only if requested on official stationery? Yes ‘X. No

Suggested grade level elem

Distribution restricted to certain geographical areas? (Specify)
available worldwide

Any other restrictions? twine

Available to schools? Yes )( No __. Libraries? Yes x No Industries? Yes ___No.3L

Available to schools, libraries, and industries in Canada?_ Yes X No

If available elsewhere, please state where available xvorlthvide

 

.—..._.____—

 

 

COMPLETE ADDRESS TO WHICH REQUESTS SHOULD BE DIRECTED: (Please use your zip code)
Fill in:
Animal Welfare Institute
P .O. Box 365fl

Lashington, D.C. ZOOO7

A

YOUR MATERIAL WAS LISTED IN THE 1980 EDITION OF THE ELEMENTARY TEACHERS GUIDE TO FREE
CURRICULUM MATERIALS AS FOLLOWS:

*BEFRIENDING ANIMALS
Since children have a natural interest in animals, it is not
difficult to teach kindness to animals. The author of this article
gives a national and international View of humane education and its
relatedness to classroom activities. Suggestions are given for
correlating humane education with science and the arts. Primary
level. ‘Single copies are available free. Available world—Wide.
Available to members of the professional staff only.
Animal Welfare Institute

This listing sheet approved by:

\L/iXMLH/f‘VQJLALMZééaﬂ rékjb/PAJJCAQQ A/éEQTZ/ UZQZ’fSS5zTéliiél

Name. /7 C7L/f Position Date ' Telephone Number

, ,g’écwyccty/
/

 




J/mi
(/04! (a

Z

‘

57
[/0744

E?
i

U

mal Welfare Inst

‘i.
3%
ib
§
§
53

Ml?

Q

6

O

2

{Z

I

C

A

lable world

Ill

1

onal staff who mak
add

oring
e th
onal
tute

A

V3.1

w1de

1

iti

e cop1
r req

copl

es are 20¢ each

 

prlmary g
pict
the prof

ures SL1].

rades
ess1

table for col

S

ingl
e1

A

uest on off

1

es are free to members of

Cl

a1 stationery

each

9

one wants a k

s a l ttle bi
ind owner.

t di
Thi

s leaflet
tells how to treat ki

fferent from every

n

3

d

other cat
esigned for use 1
ttens and cats. It cont

7

n the
a1ns

Ever

KITTENS AND CATS
y cat

1

i

but

 

~ .Vn- Jr‘s-r .w- 7:,

.1

a arrvs-u

.‘""- "T‘:3W~‘?“"W~

 




Established
1934

414—326-3126

EDUCATORS INDEX OF
FREE MATERIALS

EDUCATORS GUIDE TO FREE
FILMS

EDUCATORS GUIDE TO FREE
FILMSTRII’S

EDUCATORS GUIDE TO FREE
AUDIO AND VIDEO
MATERIALS

EDUCATORS GRADE GUIDE
TO FREE TEACHING AIDS

EDUCATORS GUIDE TO FREE
SCIENCE MATERIALS

EDUCATORS GUIDE TO FREE
SOCIAL STUDIES
MATERIALS

EDUCATORS GUIDE TO FREE
GUIDANCE MATERIALS

EDUCATORS GUIDE TO FREE
HEALTH, PHYSICAL EDUCATION
AND RECREATION MATERIALS ’

ELEMENTARY TEACHERS GUIDE
TO FREE CURRICULUM
MATERIALS

, your listing in the INDEX.

Patricia H. Suttles
Publisher

(immature ﬁgmgreas 52mm, £31m -

214 Center Street
Randolph, Wisconsin 53956

November 15, 1980

Animal Welfare Institute
P. 0. Box 3650
Washington, DC 20007

Dear Sponsor:

Through EDUCATORS INDEX OF FREE MATERIALS, you have
been able to make known the availability of the fine
printed materials which you distribute free of charge.

We are now in the process of preparing the new edition
Of EDUCATORS INDEX OF FREE MATERIALS which will be
distributed to educators, librarians and others for
their reference during the coming school year. As you
are no doubt aware, the INDEX is revised annually in
order to keep the information on available materials
current and to include new materials of educational
value.

You will find enclosed a sheet to which are attached;
clips of the listings of your materials as they appear
in the current edition of the INDEX. Please be so

kind as to check over this material, make any correc-
tions or deletions necessary, and sign the approval form
at the bottom. Please list on the white listing sheet
any new pamphlets, booklets, books, magazines, news—
letters, leaflets, maps, posters, charts, pictures,
displays, or exhibits which you are willing to offer
free of charge.

You will remember that there is no charge to y_u for
Your only obligation will

be to provide the materials listed to properly qualified
individuals or institutions who request them from you

in accordance with the restrictions you have placed
upon the offer. Requests are made directly to the
address which you designate.

Please remember to sign the listing sheet and forward
two c0pies of each item which you wish to have considered
for inclusion in the INDEX. Thank you very much.

Sincerely yours,
'aéa,

L1nda K. Keenan,

222 Park Avenue

Editor

Wisconsin 53916
414—887-8677

Beaver Dam,
TelephOne:

 




Listing Sheet for
EDUCATORS INDEX QF_FREE MATERIALS New Materials

 

The following information is requested for materials that you wish to have
considered for listing in the next edition of EDUCATORS INDEX OF FREE MATERIALS.

Please send two (2) copies of all_materials for our files;

TITLES: Please list all items that we may include in the EDUCATORS INDEX OF FREE
MATERIALS. If more space is needed, use the reverse side of this sheet or request
more Listing Sheets from us.

Good Kind Lion First Aid and Care 2£_Small Animals
Kittens and Cats Educational Materials Listing
You and Your Dog

Befriending Animals

Humane Biologngerects

RESTRICTIONS 95 DISTRIBUTION: (Please answer all questions)

 

 

Single copies only X3 A limit of copies

Available in classroom quantities? Yes 3X No

Available to professional staff only? Yes Xi No

Available only if requested on official stationery? Yes )( No

Distribution restricted to specific geographical area? {Specify}
' ld:wide

Any other restrictions on distribution or limitations on quantity?

 

_ JJQD£L . .
Available to schools? Yes ){ No To libraries? Yes )( No

Available to schools and libraries in Canada? Yes X; No
Available to schools and libraries in Australia? Yes 2; No
Available world-wide? Yes X No

__——_._————

COMPLETE ADDRESS TO WHICH REQUESTS SHOULD BE DIRECTED:

 

— ‘—

Anima] WQJ fare Institute
- Box 1650

Washington, D.C. '20007

ZIP Code

 

 

Please return this Listing Sheet with two (2) copies 0f al__
materials to be listed to:

Linda K. Keenan, Editor

EDUCATORS INDEX OF FREE MATERIALS
222 Park Avenue

Beaver Dam, Wisconsin 53916

Deadline for receipt of copy: December 15th

 

This Listing Sheet approved by:'

.~i,__.--

J /"”

- ' téixas—ékaareﬁﬁrr ‘.a.;..a- . \
5&g11ca. Y.. e . 19?9\\

Signature tion

V,
- 7-233?
Name tyﬁed or printed 3 Phone lirea code and numberl

 

 




 

’ Listing Sheet_for Items Previously
EDUCATORS INDEX Of FREE MATERIALS Listed in the INDEX

 

 

Your material was listed in the last edition of EDUCATORS INDEX OF FREE MATERIALS as
follows:

   

Delete- Administrative Control Over Science Fair Projects
Canada's Experience with Student Use of Living Animal~

(see reverse side)

If you would like this material to be included in the next edition of the INDEX, please
supply the information requested below. .

CORRECTIONS: Please note any corrections to be made on the above entry. Be sure to
check address, including ZIP Code. Please delete the item if no longer available,-
and return fortho address below. -

 

 

 

RESTRICTIONS ON DISTRIBUTION: If any changes in distribution restrictions are to

 

 

 

 

be made, please note below: _ NO CHANGES

Single copies only A limit of a ‘ copies per request

Available in classroom quantities? Yes No

Available to professional staff only? Yes No

Available only if requested on official stationery? Yes No ‘

Distribution restricted to specific geographical area?_ (Specify)

 

Any other restriCtions on distribution or limitations on quantity?

 

 

 

 

Available to schools? Yes No To libraries? Yes No
Available to schools and libraries in Canada? Yes No '
Available to schools and libraries in Australia? Yes No

‘ Available to schools and libraries world-wide? Yes No

 

NEW MATERIALS: Please list any new materials on the enclosed white listing sheet.

Please return this Listing Sheet with two (2) copies of all
materials to be listed to: .

Linda K. Keenan, Editor

EDUCATORS INDEX OF FREE MATERIALS
222 Park Avenue '

Beaver Dam, Wisconsin 53916

Deadline for receipt of copy: December 15th

This Listing Sheet approved by:

_ Publications Secretary 11/26/79
Position Date

 

 

   

 

Shprvl Sternppberg 202-337—2332
Name typed or printed . . Telephone (Area code and number)




.WM-,_W._,._——-

LET US LIVE
This leaflet discusses the trapping of animals and is illustrated in
color. A limit of 50 copies is available world-wide.
ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE,
BOX 3650,
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20007

—-..

BETTER NUTRITION STUDIES
Describes nutrition studies, without the use of the traditional
deprivation approach. Reprint of an article from The American
Biology Teacher. Single copies available world—wide if requested on
official stationery.-

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE,

BOX 3650,

WASHINGTON, 'D. C. 20007

 

 

 

 

 

1-... 4—-..“ “a..- . ”-- ._. ”-m...» ....._... - .-..—

ADMINISTRATIVE CONTROL OVER SCIENCE FAIR PROJECTS

CANADA'S EXPERIENCE WITH STUDENT USE OF LIVING ANIMALS

LIVE ORGANISMS IN HIGH SCHOOL BIOLOGY

STATEMENT ON ANIMALS IN SECONDARY SCHOOLS
A series of pamphlets dealing with the use, care, and treatment of living
animals used in school biology and science classes. Single copies avail—
able world-wide if requested on official stationery.
ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE,
BOX 3650,
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20007

 

 




\v‘IEEJUWﬂuLM/
\asmnmmummmuy/ //7

“N“' 'ﬂ'Iv”

No. 24 Quarterly January 1981

 

 

Z‘

a Publication of the werld Society for the Protection of Animals (WSPA3
Une pubiication de la Société pour la protection des animaux
Eine Publikation der Weittiers chutzwccsellschaft

London — Boston — Zurich

 

SPOTLIGHT‘w a Bibliographic Record m lists references

to selected articles in the animal welfare press and in
other periodicalso Referenced documents can be obtained
either directly from the source listed or in form of
photocopies at cost plus mailing charges from the Data
Bank of the WSPA Regional Office for Continental Europe:
Dreikonigstrassc 37, CH-8002 Zurich.

SPOTLIGHT _ une revue bibliographique — fait reference

aux articles séléctionnée parmi les publications des so—
ciétés pour la protection des animaux et d'autres ouvrages
périodiqueso Les documents y relatifs peuvent etre obtenus
soit directement des adresses indiquées ou en forme de
photocopies au priX coﬁtant et les dépenses postales de

la "Data Bank" du Bureau Regional pour l'Europe Continen-
tale de la WSPA: Dreikonigstrasse 37, CH—8002 Zuricha

SPOTLIGHT — eine bibliographische Uebersicht — enthalt
Hinweis se auf ausgewahlte Artikel der Tierschutz—Presse

und anderer Ze itschriften. Die aufvefuhrten Dokumente
kennen entweder direkt von den angegebenen Adressen Oder
in Form von Fotokopien zum Selbstkos tenpreis plus Porto
von der WSPA—"Data Bank" bezogen werden: WSPA Regional—
‘ﬁro fur Kbntinental~Europa, Dreikonigstr. 37, 8002 ZUrich.

Book Reviews - Recensions de livres — Buchbesprechungen
See last pages — Voir dernieres pages — Siehe letzte Seiten

 

Previously published by the World Federation for the Protection

of Animals — Antérieurement publié par la Federation mondiale

pour la protection des animauX — Fruher herausgegeben vom Welt—
tierschutzbund.

 

 

 

 

 




 

WSPA DATA BANK

Ol

Free—living wild animals
Animaux sauvages en liberté
Freilebende Wilde Tiere

O2

Captive wild animals

Animaux sauvages en captivité
Wilde Tiere in Gefangenschaft

03

Farming animals

AnimauX de consommation
Landwirtschaftl. Nutztiere

'04
Dogs
Chiens
Hunde

05
Cats
Chats
Katzen

06
Birds
Oiseaux
Vegel

07

Sea mammals
Mammiferes de mer
Meeres-Saugetiere

8

cmmercial exploitation
axploitation commercials
Kommerzielle Ausbeutung

09

Exploitation for amusement
Exploitation pour l'amusement
Ausbeutung zu Vergnugungszwecken

LO
Kangaroos
Kangouroux
Kanguruhs

C O D E

‘7

11

Laboratory animals
Animaux de laboratoire
Versuchstiere

l2
Hunting
Chasse
Jagd

13
Slaughter
Abattage
Schlachten

14
Transport

15
Conservation
Naturschutz

l6
Euthanasia
Euthanasie

l7
Legislation
Legislation
Gesetzgebung

18
Education
Erziehung

19

Japan

20

Care of pets

Soins des animaux familiers
Haustier—Pflege

21

Animal welfare societies

Sociétés pour la protection des animaux
Tierschutzgesellschaften

22
Sciences éveterinary, behavioural, etc.)
Sciences
Forschung (Veterinar—, Verhaltens—, etc.)

 

N o t e

For copies of articles listed, address
Ctpies des articles mentionnés peuvent
& en vous
’CKOPien von angefﬁhrten Artikeln konnen

W8

yourself to:
étre'obtenues
adressant a:
angefordert

Miss Nina Prader
WSPA Regional Office
DreiKOnigstrasse 37

rden bei: CH—8002 Zurich

 

 

vétérinaire, comportement, etc.)

 




 

 

01.146
”Der Klippscniiefer, ein kleiner Verwandter des blefanten"
Zﬂrichsee Zeitung, 10 0ct 80. Zurich

 

02 02 02 02 02 02 02 O2 O2 02 02 02 02 02 02

 

02.281
”Zoos in transition“
Humane Society News, wall '80, Washington, v.0.

02.282
“The last of the wild horses”
New Scientist, 11 Sep 80, London

 

03 03 03 03 03 03 03 03 03 03 03 03

 

03.166
”Die Milchathleten der BRD”
GEO, Oct 80, Hamburg

03.167
"Streit um die Kafignaltung von Legehennen“
Der Tierschutz (Arbeitsgemeinschaft Dt. Tierschutz), 3/80, Hamburg

03.168
”Bauerliche Schweinemast - zum Vorteil fur Bauer und Tier"

Schweizer Tierschutz, Oct 80, Basel

 

O4 O4 O4 O4 O4 O4 O4 O4 O4 O4 O4 O4

 

04.73
"Canton cracks down to halt rabies"
Hongkong Standard, 15 Nov 80

04.74
”No call for Poisons where dogs guard sheep"
AWI Information Report, Jul—Sep 80, Washington, D.C.

 

05 05 05 05 05 05 05 05 05 OS 05 05 OS 05 OS

 

no entry.

 

 




 

O6 O6 06 O6 O6 O6 O6 06 06 06 O6 O6 06 O6 O6 O6

 

06.143
"Referendum contro 1a caccia di ucelli”
L'homme 9t l'oiseau, Jul—Sep 80, Bresschaat

06.144
"Pro und Contra Taubenfﬁtterung"
Bunte, Offenburg (BRD)

06.145
"Zugvogel kennen keine Grenzen“
Schweizer Tierschutz, Okt 80, Basel (CH)

06.146
"Vogeldiebe gehen um"
Schweizer Illustrierte, 13 Okt 80, Zofingen (CH)

06.147
"Auch Winterfﬂtterung ist Vogelschutz”
Komitee gegen den Vogelmord e.V., Neuer Wa11,26, 2 Hamburg 36 (BRD)

06.148
"Ist Winterfﬁtterung der Vogel eine Notwendigkeit?”
Komitee gegen den Vogelmord e.V., Neuer Wall 26, 2 Hamburg 36 (BRD)

06.149
”Wie Vogel einander Feindbilder tradieren”
Weltwoche, 18 Jun 80, Zurich (CH)

06.150
"Gefahrdete Kraniche in EurOpa"
Neue Zarcher Zeitung, 13 Okt 80, Zurich

 

O7 O7 O7 O7 O7 O7 O7 O7 O7 O7 O7 O7 O7 O7 O7 O7 O7 O7

 

07.327
"IWC bans the use of Cold Harpoons on whales”
Animal Welfare Institute Info Report, Jul—Sep 80, Washington, D.C.

07.328
"Shameful vote on Whales in Canada"
Toronto Star, 24 Jul 80, Toronto (CA)

07.329
"Whales" by Patricia Forkan
HSUS News, summer 80, Washington D.C. (USA)

07.330
"US whaling policy ignores conservation needs"
Toronto Star, 24 Aug 80 (CA)

 




07.331
"Whale Meat again”
The Beast, autumn 80, London (GB)

07.332
"Neue Delphinart im chinesischen Fluss Chang Jiang identifiziert"
Tages-Anzeiger, 14 Okt 80, Zarich (CH)

07.333
"IWC—Kommission lehnt generelles Fangverbot far Wale ab"
Du und das Tier, 3/80, Hannover (BRD)

 

08 08 08 08 08 08 08 08 08 O8 08 08 08 08 08 08 08 08

 

08.147
"Appeal by Charles Darwin: 'Trapping Agony'” (:1
Defenders of Wildlife, Apr 80, Washington, D.C. (USA)

08.148
"The beach chimp trade in Spain" by Dick Van Hoorn
Internat. Primate Protection League Newsletter, Okt 80, Summerville (US)

08.149
"Technology in wool harvesting in Australia”
New Scientist, 11 Sep 80, London

08.150
"StOppt den schandlichen Handeli", Peter Sand
NaturOpa, Nr. 34/35, EurOparat, Strassburg (F)

08. 151
"Felle und Elfenbein - Europas Luxus"
NaturOpa, Nr. 34/35, EurOparat, Strassburg (F)

08.152
”Mit Jojobas Walfische retten"
Israel Informationen fﬁr die Schweiz, Nov 80

 

09 09 ‘09 09 09 09 09 09 09 09

 

no entry.

 

10 10 10 10 10 10 10 10 10 10 10 10 10 10 10 10 10

 

10.12 a
"Kangaroo ban must stay" ¢£ir
AWI Information Report, Jul-Sep 80, Washington, D.C. (USA)

10.13
”The Threatened Kangaroo"

HSUS News, Fall 80, Washington, D.C. (USA)

 

 




 

11 11 11 ll 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11

 

11.194

"International Primate Protection League uncovers use of primates
in chemical warfare experiments"

IPPL Newsletter, Oct 80, Summerville, S.C. (USA)

11.195
"Slaughter in the name of Science" by A.O. Karstaedt
AV Magazine, Sep 80, Jenkintown, Pa. (USA)

11.196
"Parvovirus — new Australian vaccine a world first"
Animals, Sep 80, Sydney (Australia)

11.197
"Case against Vivisection" by Dr. Gill Langley
Animal Welfare, Sep 80, London

11.198
"Betrachtungen zu einem Tox—, Hochtox— und Schockzentrum der Armee"
Verein gegen die Vivisektion, Zurich (CH)

11.199
"Grausame Tierversuche in Zahlen"
Bunte, 18 Sep 80, Offenburg (BRD)

 

12 12 12 12 12 12 12 12 12 12 12

 

12.66
"Jagdszenen aus dem Kaukasus", J. Semjonow
Plus, Nr.44, Zurich (CH)

 

13 13 13 13 13 13 13 13 13 13 13

 

no entry.

 

14 14 14 14 14 14 14 14 14 14 14

 

14.49
"Canada exports 35 million pounds of horsemeat a year!"
The Gazette, 1 Nov 80, Montreal (CA)

14.50
"La honte des chevaux martyrs"
Bulletin, Soc. Royale Protectrice des Animaux, II/80, Liege (B)

14.51

"Le scandale des chevaux dits 'de boucherie'"
Editions 1es Bardes, St.Raphael.
Tier—Hilfswerk, 6900 Heidelberg (BRD)

 




14.52
”So werden die Pferde zum Schlachten gekarrt"
Bunte, 30 Okt 80, Offenburg (BRD)

14.53

"Schlachtpferde unterwegs: eingepfercht und totgequalt"
Fernseh—Dokumentation

Du und das Tier, 3/80, Hannover (BRD)

14.54
"Kalber, Schweine, Hasen, Vogel,... auf der Fahrt durch EurOpa"
Quick, 2 Okt 80, Mﬁnchen (BRD)

 

15 15 15 15 15

 

15.217
"New Threats To America's Wild Horses“
Mainstream, summer 80, Sacramento (USA)

15.218
”Belgium continues to import smuggled primates"
International Primate Protection League Newsletter, Oct 80, Summerville

15.219
”Rhino Poachers”
The Guardian, 28 Aug 80, London

15.220
"15 Nations sign accord to protect Antarctic Life"
International Herald Tribune, 23 Sep 80, Paris (F)

15.221
”Les espéces menacées"
Le Monde, 19 Oct 80, Paris

 

16 16 16 16 16 16 16 16 16 16 16

 

16.38
”Impfbarriere gegen Tollwut?"
Tages—Anzeiger, 7 Nov 80, ZUrich

 

17 17 17 17 17 17 17 17 17 17 17

 

17.91
"Animal Protection Laws in New South Wales"
Animals, Sep 80, Sydney (Australia)

 

 




 

18 18 18 18 18

 

18.79
”Children's ideas on animals" (a preliminary study) by D.A. Paterson
Humane Education Journal, winter 80, London

18.80
"Animals in British Schools” by D.A. Paterson
Humane Education Journal, winter 80, London

18.81
"Was geht im Kind vor, wenn es den Zoo besucht?"
COOp—Zeitung, 2 Okt 80, Basel (CH)

 

19 19 19 19 19 19 19 19 19 19 19 19 19 19

 

no entry.

 

20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 2O 20 20 20 20

 

20. 51
"The Myth and Truth of Owning Wild & Exotic Pets"
Humane Society News, Fall 80, Washington, D.C. (USA)

20.52
"How to tell a sick shelter animal from a healthy one"
Shelter Sense, Aug 80, Washington, D.C. (USA)

 

21 21 21 21 21 21 21 21 21 21 21 21 21 21

 

21.35
"Humane Education Symposium”
Animal Welfare, Oct 80, London

 

22 22 22 22 22 22 22 22 22 22 22 22 22 22

 

22.120
"Update on Parvovirus"
Shelter Sense, Oct 80, Washington, D.C.

22.121
”Neue biologische Techniken zur Schaffung von Leben"

GEO, Nr.12/Dec 80, Hamburg (BRD)

22.122
"Parallelentwicklung und Konvergenz im Tierreich"
Neue Zﬁrcher Zeitung, 24 Sep 80, Zurich (CH)

 

 




A multidisciplinary journal sponsored by the World Federation for the Protection
of Animals, reporting on advanced work in animal control and welfare

VOL, 2 NO. 4 ANIMAL REGULATION STUDIES SEPTEMBER 1980
CONTENTS

Animals and children ~ image and imagination
K. Frucht (Zijrich, Switzerland) ................

Housing systems and animal welfare research requirements —- a review
D.G.M. Wood-Gosh (Edinburgh, Great Britain) ......................
Why experiments on animals are indispensable in research, with special reference to

drug development in Switzerland

H. Bruhin and J. Gelzer (Basel, Switzerland) ...................
Report
The wreck of the cattle ship ‘El Tambo’

D.B. Davies (Aberystwyth, Great Britain) ............................... 297
News Items

News of the WFPA .............................................. 311
General. . .. . 31)

Animal Regulation Studies, 3 (1980) 1—174
«1) Elsevier Scientific Publishing Company, Amsterdam - Printed in The Netherlands

Special Issue

PROCEEDINGS OF THE FIRST EUROPEAN CONFERENCE ON THE
PROTECTION OF FARM ANIMALS
held from 17-18 April 1979 at the Raj Centre, Amsterdam, The Netherlands

Edited by

P.L. BROWN

Chief Veterinary Officer, Royal Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals, Causeway, Horsham, Sussex RH12 IHG, Great Britain

CONTENTS

Introduction

P.L. Brown, Chairman of the Conference
Opening Speech

A Vondeling
Chairman’s Address

P L Brown

 




Cattle Production and Welfare (Chairman: Ir. M.G. Wagenaar Hummelinck)
Relationship between farm conditions and health or welfare problems in cattle
F. Lomba (Brussels, Belgium)
Humane considerations in calf rearing
H.H. Sambraus (Munich, Federal Republic of Germany)
Housing and feeding of calves
H. Bogner (Grub, Federal Republic of Germany)
An objective view of veal production
N. Steenkamer (Ermelo, The Netherlands)
The welfare of domestic animals
H. Lambertz(Simpelveld, The Netherlands)
Discussion (Day 1, Period 1) . . . . .

Poultry Production and Welfare (Chairman: Herrn Min. Dir. Prof. Dr. Eckerskorn)
The responsibility of the consumer of animal products
M. Paravicini (Basle, Switzerland)
Poultry production and welfare
D.W.B. Sainsbury (Cambridge, Great Britain)
Exterior of eggslayers in intensive systems
H.B. Simonsen (Copenhagen, Denmark)
Environmental preference studies in the hen
M. Dawkins (Oxford, Great Britain)
Behaviour of the hen in different environments
13.0. Hughes (Roslin, Great Britain) . . . .. .
Evaluation of various maintenance conditions for laying hens
R.-M. Wegner (Celia, Federal Republic of Germany)
The poultry farmer and animal welfare
W. Thomann (Berne, Switzerland)
Norms —- lobby pressure or applied science?
L.Y. Sdrensen (Copenhagen, Denmark)
Discussion (Day 1, Period 2) .

Pig Production and Welfare (Chairman: Michael Pittaway)
Production hazards in technically advanced confinement systems for pigs
J.B. Ludvigsen (Copenhagen, Denmark) . .
Objective observations on the behaviour of fattening pigs
G. Van Putten (Zeist, The Netherlands) . . . . . . . . . .
Some environmentally evoked animal health and welfare problems in modern
husbandry
I. Ekesbo (Skara, Sweden) . . . . . . . .
Management of health and welfare in intensive pig husbandry
O. Aalund (Copenhagen, Denmark)
Discussion (Day 2, Period 1)

The Role of the European Institutions (Chairman: Dr. Sven Rasmussen)

Address by the Dutch director-general for agriculture and food
A.DeZeeuw.

Role of the Federation of Veterinarians of the EEC (FVE) in animal welfare
H.A. Van Riessen . . . . .

Role of the European Commission in animal welfare
H.J. Bendixen (Brussels, Belgium)

Toward a European law for animals
F.W. Hondius . . .

Discussion (Day 2, Period 2)

Appendix I . . .

Appendix II

Publication schedule. Animal Regulation Studies appears quarterly, Volume 3 (4 issues): 1980.

Subscriptions. Subscription price of volume 3 is Dfl. 128.00 (approx. US $65.00) (postage included). Sena
vour order to your usual supplier or direct to Associated Scientific Publishers, PO. Box 211, 1000 AE
Amsterdam, The Netherlands. For customers in the U.S. and Canada wishing additional bibliographic infor-
mation on this and other Elsevier journals, please contact Elsevier/North-Holland Inc., Journal Information
Centre, 52 Vanderbilt Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10017. Tel. (212) 8679040.

Claims for issues not received should be made within 3 months of publication of the issues. If not they
cannot be honoured free of charge. -

 




 

BOOKS LIVRES BUECHER BOOKS LIVRES BUECHER BOOKS LIVRES

 

Books listed to be ordered from addresses of publishers given:

 

S’il vous plait, commandez les livres chez l'éditeur indiquél

 

Bitte bestellen Sie die Bucher beim angegebenen Verlagl

 

(01)

Dr. P. BOpp/ Dr. h.c. M. Schwarz/ Dr. H.U. Morgenthaler. 1977(3.Aufl.)
Tierkunde (Schﬁler— und Lehrerhandbuch). 2 Bande (DM 16.50 resp.

DM 28.00. Verlag Paul Haupt, Falkenplatz 14, CH—3001 Bern.

 

Jedem Kapitel im Lehrbuch entspricht ein solches im Lehrerhandbuch.
In Einzeldarstellungen wird ﬁber Bau, Lebensweise und Verhalten aus—
gewahlter Vertreter der wichtigsten Tiergruppen berichtet. Von der
Mannigfaltigkeit der Tierformen geben die zahlreichen Bilder ver—
schiedener Arten einen Eindruck. Die Bﬁcher eignen sich fur alle
Klassen der Volksschule, in denen Naturkunde-Unterricht erteilt wird.
Es sind aber auch Versuche und Beobachtungen beschrieben, die darﬁber
hinausgehen und sich an die LehrernBildungsstatten oder an andere
weiterfﬁhrende Schulen wenden. Jedes Kapitel schliesst mit einer Aus—
wahl von Hilfsmitteln: Literatur, Tabellen, Dia—Reihen, Tonbandern/
Kassetten, Filmen, sowie mit einem Verzeichnis der Verleihstellen,
deren Adressen und Verleihbedingungen.

(07)
Kenneth Brower (text) & wm.R. Curtsinger (photos). 1979. Wake of the

Whale.($ 35.00). Friends of the Earth Inc./ E.P. button, 2 Park Ave.
New York, N.Y. 10016, USA. -

This beautiful volume expresses the hope that we can prevent a wake
awﬁEQE the whale although Sidney Holt, the wellknown expert on marine

mammals, points out in the introduction to the book "that whaling is
by no means the only threat to whales". Pollution, oil Spills, radio-
activity, overfishing, and oceanaria join the lenghtening list of
threats. In this book the phenomenon is the sea, the spirit that of
whales and seals, and of a man, Bill Curtsinger, who follows them
with his camera—beneath the surface. Over and over again, the reader
witnesses the moment when ahead, on the dark, impenetrable surface

of the sea, was some unidentified cetacean. "It blew again? Brower
writes in the concluding sentences of the volume: "One day, that

blow had belonged to Cuvier's beaked whale. I had not known, before
meeting Cuvier’s whale, that such an animal existed. Another day the
spout had belonged to a sperm whale, another day to Steno bredanensis,
another to Globicephala malaena. Today the creature ahead of us could
be anything. I realized there was no place I would rather be, that I
could do this happily every day for the rest of my life. We closed
'in on the unknown whale.“ The proceeds from the book will help keep
the world safe for cetaceans and thereby safer for people.

(08)
Greta Nilsson and others. 1980 (third edition). Facts about Furs.
Animal Welfare Institute, P.0. Box 3650, Washington, D.C. 20007, USA

The principal author of this 285—page book, containing 75 illustra—
tions, 47 charts, tables and maps, 18 appendices, and an index, is
Greta Nilsson who wrote "The Bird Business". The first two editions

 




_ 10 _

Greta Nilsson, Facts about Furs (cont'd)

 

of "Facts about Furs" were written by F. Jean Vinter, M.D., of the
Universities' Federation for Animal Welfare. Mrs. Christine Stevens,
President of the Animal Welfare Institute, mentioned in the foreword
to this edition the two most striking phenomena that have taken
place worldwide since the time of the earlier editions, namely the
enormous increase in the price of fur and the equally wide increase
in public revulsion at the long-drawnmout agony caused by the steel
jaw leghold trap. '

A short history of the fur trade is followed by a statistical survey
of animals killed for this trade by continents and worldwide in the
case of seals, not omitting ranched wildlife and domestic animal
fur. Under the title “From fur bearer to fur wearer: the agony of
the transition", every means is described with which fur—bearing
animals are killed, from steel jaw leghold traps, pole traps, jump
traps, padded offset traps and killer traps to leg snares, body
snares, box traps and cage traps, dead falls and pitfalls. The meth—
ods of killing by poison, shooting or denning are detailed as well
as the killing methods practised on fur farms. Separate chapters
deal with legislation regulating the taking of fur bearers, the fur
trade and endangered species,and alternatives to fur. Appendices,
tables, maps and graphs, and illustrations complete this encyclope-
dic publication which is still being held within the dimensions of
an easy reference book that should not fail to take its place in
any library.

(09)
Toni Ringo Helfer. 1980. The gentle Jungle. Brigham Young University
Press, Provo, Utah 84602, USA.

This book describes the history and technique of wild animal affec-
tion training as perfected by the author's husband Ralph Helfer. The
Helfers are the owners of an unusual animal compound called Gentle
Jungle in Southern California where most of the wild animals come.
from which can be seen nearly daily on the motion picture and tele—
vision screens. The actor William Holden said of the Helfers that
they "have accomplished more with affection training of wild animals
than anyone I know". Ralph Helfer,according to the account of his
wife, "was led by inner forces to study animals in the wild, adapt-
ing their social ways to his captive, controlled environment"; as he
said of himself:"I brought up my animals as one might wish to raise
his children. We built a strong foundation between us and knew one
another as friends. I discovered their individual idiosyncrasies,
their likes and dislikes; and I develOped ways to relax their fears"
and on another page in the book:"Captivity is possibly the only
protection for wild animals". This view can certainly be debated,
and we must hOpe that we are not too close to its truth.

 

(11)

The Experimental Animal. 1979. Papers presented at a Seminar, spon-
sored by the Canadian Federation of Humane Societies, 101 Champagne
Avenue, Ottawa (Ontario) KlS 4P3, held on 18/19 September 1979.

The participants in this symposium seemed to agree that it is im-
possible to endorse the antivivisectionist stand that use of exper-
imental animals must cease. However, improvements for animals in

 




The Experimental Animal (cont'd)

 

research will be made, perhaps the most important of which is the
further development of sensitivity in the researcher. It is not al—
ways possible on absolute grounds to define the limits of exposure
which are acceptable under all circumstances. In 1977, the Canadian
Council on Animal Care was asked to consider guidelines relating to
the ethics of animal experimentation, with particular reference to
pain and discomfort, stressing humane considerations. One of the
major contributions to this symposium was a paper dealing with the
control of animal experimentation in the United Kingdom and in
EurOpe while another paper dealt with alternatives to animals in
testing. The latter paper contained some statistical tabulations,
for instance, about the annual number of laboratory animals used in
various countries or rhesus monkeys imported into the USA.

(11)

Rapport d‘un colloque sur les substitute a 1'emploi d'animaux de
laboratoire dans la recherche et l'expérimentation bio-médicales.
1980. Commandité par La Société Canadienne de Protection des Ani—
maux, 5215 ouest Jean Talon, Montreal (Quebec) H4P 1X4. (Ce rapport
peut etre obtenu en s’adressand a la SCPA).

 

Ce rapport pourra etre utile dans les efforts en vue de supprimer 1a
souffrance des animaux de laboratoire. Pour arriver 3 ce que les
méthodes de remplacement des animaux Vivants dans les laboratoires
soient largement reconnues et utilisées, i1 faudra que leur valeur
et leur importance soient reconnues par les industries, les fonda—
tions, les laboratoires, les universités et que des budgets de re—
cherche leur soient attribués. Il faudra que les scientifiques pass—
ent preuve d'intérét, d'imagination et d'initiative, et que les
méthodes soient finalement approuvées par les utilisateurs. Les
groupes de défense des animaux peuvent jouer ici 1e role de con—
science sociale et de catalysateur.

(11)
Kurt Allgeier. 1980. Tierexperimente pro und contra. (DM 6.80) Gold—
mann Verlag, Neumarkter Strasse 22, D-8000 Munchen 80.

"Sadisten im weissen Kittel?” — “Millionen Opfer — nur ein Alibi?" —
"Wer weint schon einer Ratte nach?" — "Verloren zwischen vagen Pa—
ragraphen",etc. Wer hinter solchen unsachlichen Titeln ein sachli—
ches Sachbuch vermutet, geht fehl. Jedoch im Schlusskapitel "Pro oder
Contra?" zeigt sich der Autor dbjektiver, und mit der Mehrzahl der
Forderungen zur Linderung des Tierleidens im Versuchslabor konnen
sich auch Tierschﬁtzer einverstanden erklaren. Die emotionalen Ar—
gumente kdnnen nur diejenigen ﬁberzeugen, die bereits ﬁberzeugt sind.

(15)

Richard Fitter. 1978. The Penitent Butchers. The Preservation Society
1903—1978. 48 pp., with black and white drawings by Sir Peter Scott.
E 2.50. Collings, St.James Place, London, England.

Richard Fitter, author of this book, is one of Britain's best known
naturalists, and Hon. Secretary of the Fauna Preservation Society
(F.P.S.). Here, he traces the history of this society (which, in

 




_ 12 _

R. Fitter, The Penitent Butchers (cont'd.)

December 1978, celebrated its 75th anniversary), its role in inter—
national conservation, its struggles and its achievements from 1903
to the present day. This book is thus at once a tribute to the EPS
and a salutary reminder that there are still many animals which will
need all our efforts if they are to survive into the next century.
Sir Peter Scott, who made the excellent animal drawings in this
book, is at the same time Chairman of the F.P.S.

 

(18)

Healther McGiffin & Nancie Brownley (editors). 1980. Animals in
Education: The use of animals in high school biology classes and
science fairs. (S 9.95) The Institute for the Study of Animal Prdb—
lems, 2100 L Street, N.W., Washington, D.C., USA.

 

The papers published in this volume were presented at a conference,
sponsored by the Institute for the Study of Animal PrOblems in con—
nection with the Myrin Institute for Adult Education, to investigate
the ethical and practical issues underlying the development of a
sound programme for the study of living organisms in secondary edu—
cation. Animals have been misused in classrooms by being considered
solely as experimental objects through which to ascertain the fund—
amentals of anatomy and physiology. Much broader objectives must be
sought if animal use is to make a meaningful contribution to the
educated citizenry of the future. The participants of this conference
consisting of scientists, teachers and representatives of educational
and animal welfare organizations from the United States, EurOpe and
Canada discussed the ethical considerations and scientific validity
of student projects involving pain or stress to vertebrates. The
general consensus was that obServational studies of live animals
should be encouraged in the classroom, as well as in wild or semi—
wild settings; pre-service and in—service programmes need to be
deve10ped to train teachers in the use and handling of animals; and
emphasis be placed on the need to "clean up" educational materials
which promote a mechanistic, interventive approach toward animal
studies.

(18)

BLV Bestimmungsbuch: Tierspuren — Tiere erkennen an Fahrten, Frass-
zeichen, Bauen und Nestern. 1977. BLV Verlagsgesellschaft GmbH
Postfach 40 03 20, D—8 Munchen 40.

 

Mit Text von Preben Bang und Zeichnungen von Preben Dahlstrom, beide
danische Zoologen, verfolgt das "Spurenbuch" die Absicht, ein prak—
tisch benutzbares Handbuch fur Feld und Wald zu schaffen. Die Tiere
sind nicht in systematischer Reihenfolge besprochen, sondern nach
Themen geordnet, wie sie einem in der Natur leicht begegnen. Man
orientiert sich vielmehr nach den einzelnen Spurenarten. Findet man
zum Beispiel eine zerbrochene Nuss, schlagt man ganz einfach die
Nusstafel auf. Ist eine Baumrinde angenagt, lasst sich der vierbei—
nige "Tater" leicht ﬁber die Tafel "Fras_—Spuren an Holzpflanzen"
identifizieren. Mit Hilfe dieses Buches kann man also selbst die
richtigen Rﬁckschlﬁsse auf Verhaltens- und Lebeweise der betreffen—
den Tierart ziehen, ohne dass man grosses zoologisches Wissen dazu

braucht.

 




(18) ‘
Aloys Zotl. l980.Das Bestiarium. Weber S.A. Editions, l3 Monthoux,
CH—lle Genéve 2.

 

Ein Buch fﬁr bibliophile Feinschmecker, eingeleitet von Giovanni
Mariotti, hat es wenig biographische Details ﬁber den Farbermeister
Aloys Zotl aus Oberésterreich zu berichten, der in den Jahren 1832
his 1887 mit grossem Eifer ein prachtiges Bestiarium schuf. Die
antiken Astronomen sahen Tiere im Himmel; die primitiven V0lker be-
trachteten die Tiere als ihre Vorfahren. Heute werden die Tierarten
aufgrund ihrer Nﬁtzlichkeit verteidigt, nicht aber wegen ihres as—
thetischen oder geistigen Wertes. Diese Werte beachtete Zétl. Er
schuf phantastische Hintergrﬁnde, die zur Anmut oder Wildheit, zu
der Form und der Farbe der einzelnen Tiere passten. Auf 51 Farbta—
feln fand der reiohe Tiergarten Zétls eine prachtige Auferstehung.

(22)

Heini Hediger. 1980. Tiere verstehen: Erkenntnisse eines Tierpsycho-
logen. 408 Seiten, Leinen mit Schutzumschlag (DM 34.80). Kindler
Verlag, Mﬁnchen/ Zurich.

 

Das vorliegende Buch von Prof. Hediger ist kein Zoo-Buch, sondern
ein allgemein verstandlicher Beitrag zur Tierpsychologie, die heute
fast ﬁberall verdrangt worden ist von anderen Formen der Verhaltens-
forschung, vor allem der Ethologie, die alles Psychische ausklammert
und sogar bestreitet. Damit war Hediger nie einverstanden. Er ver-
teidigt die Tierpsychologie, der er — im Gegensatz zu Lorenz, Tin—
bergen u.a. — treu geblieben ist, als einen wichtigen Teil der Ver
gleichenden Psychologie.

Prof. Dr. phil., Dr. med. vet. h.c. Heini Hediger wurde 1908 in Ba
sel geboren. Er betreute wahrend 35 Jahren nacheinander die Zoolo—
gischen Garten von Bern, Basel und Zﬁrich. Er vertrat die Tierpsy—
chologie an den Universitaten von Basel und Zﬁrich.

(22)

Vitus B. Droscher. 1980. Ein Krokodil zum Frﬁhstﬁck — Verblﬁffende
Geschichten vom Verhalten der Tiere. (DM 28.00) Econ Verlag GmbH,
Gruppellostrasse 28, D—4000 Dusseldorf 1.

In kurzen pragnanten Erzahlungen und Erlebnisberichten vermittelt

der wohlbekannte Autor wertvolle und erstaunliche Erkenntnisse der
modernen Verhaltensforschung. Unterhaltsam, informativ und leider
auch 0ft zu "tierisch~heiter" geben diese Tiergeschichten Einblick
in eine Welt voller Ueberraschungen. Das Buch ist sachkundig illu-
striert und eignet sich als Einfﬁhrung in die Verhaltenswissenschaft.

(22)
Dieter Zissler. 1980. Bauplane der Tiere — Eine Funktionelle Morpho—
logie. (DM 28.00) Verlag Herder, Hermann—Herder—Strasse 4, D-7800

Freiburg i. Breisgau.

 

Die grosse Mannigfaltigkeit der heute bekannten Tierarten (ca. 1,5
Mio.) lasst sich auf etwa ein Dutzend Tierstamme zurﬁckfﬁhren, von
denen jeder einen charakteristischen Bauplan besitzt. Dem Autor, Zoo-
loge am Institut fﬁr Biologie I der Universitat Freiburg, ist es
nicht nur gelungen, aussere Gestalt und inneren Aufbau des Tierkbr—
pers klar darzustellen, sondern auch deren Funktion zu erklaren und

 




D. Zissler, Baupléne der Tiere (Fortsetzung):

 

die Eigentﬁmlichkeiten der verschiedenen Grundformen tierischer Lebe-
wesen auch nach dem 6kologischen und evolutionsbiologischen Hinter—
grund zu durchleuchten. Das Buch stellt eine Einfﬁhrung in das mor—
phologisch-biologische Denken dar, ergénzt durch zahlreiche ein— und
mehrfarbige Abbildungen und Tafeln. Es tut wohl, an eine Frage des
grossen Wissenschaftlers Erwin Schrédingers erinnert zu warden:
"Wann sagt man von einem Stuck Materie, es lebe? Wenn es fortwéhrend
'etwas tut', sich bewegt, mit der Umwelt Stoffliches austauscht,
usw., und zwar wéhrend einer viel léngeren Zeit, als wir unter glei-
Chen Bedingungen von einem unbelebten Stﬁck Materie erwarten, dass
es 'in Bewegung bleibe'".

 




xpo - R,

07334126

07334138

07336160

0733414X

R. BOWKER co. BIP SUPPL 1980-1981 REPT; so - TITL 10/23/50 ANIMAL WELFARE

._)

BE SURE TO HAVE ISBN 0N EVERY PRICE AND EVERY BINDING

  
   
 
   
  

An§maia a Their LegaI Rights. rev; ed. Emily S. Leevitt at .1. Ed, by Christine SteVeno;
text ad. 2;oo (ISBN G*6&6*a¥ﬁ+i-¥). Anima! wetiare;

COmfortable Quarters for Labbratbrv AnimaIs. 7th ed. Animal We1fare Inst§tute. (I‘1Ua.5.
(ISBN Olh5b£31545*54w Animav weiiane;

Facts About Furs. rev. ed; Great NiIasbn at £1. Tr; by Animal Neiiare Institute. (11103..
3.00 (ISBN Gwﬁﬁb~£6ﬁ95*#é. Anima‘ Neifare.

Physical & Menta‘ Sufforing cf Eiparimentai Animals. Jo?! Diner. Ed. by Animé! Welfare I

ban. text ed; “.00 (ISBN—evﬁﬁﬁve4ﬁfﬁw3ﬂ. AnimaI Ne!?areg

FM” I44 and Cam 07‘ gmal/ #nrMa/J. rev. écﬂ. {Ir/L2H- PLUM/er 536/ 4/25/77053 Cue/’9’?
ﬂap ﬂuw‘ eaf 5/; 00 (jg/3N > Azmmz/ gag/W

Haﬂw/ua 6/0/03 fg/Loje 5 7A/r0/ mam ﬂnima/ we/zw 277574/«12/ (AU/ad 3
:ﬁyé7.0é (KJZ§69L) x4xanmzétbb/Vh4ﬂw

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

. / 1/ 2791/1
. ,, ISBN, LOG, BOOK- , ,, , ,_ ___w___
, 33 '33 3’3 3’3 3 3 'i 33" 3 , , , 19:3 /<< fi/im «((13
" ,0“333339”31”‘ (j <23; téggtzf3gic£3,._,,,wm,_,H,,W,,..,
333' , ,, ”’33-‘33” ‘ 33*,3’3 ”3,7 , , F/Q F, 3 $534319C/
O I . ,, , I .. ' , , J 9°
I 937-9 9“ ‘ ,, _ {/9 w #55 99r/4z/m} k,
,, 9,"; 1‘19 9 9-9999 9 ,f ,,/~://Q;J " /L¢7’119(;(:9~’90 L» , M,
" 07333319*“3”P ., ,53/9~9%u? ,69ﬁibﬁﬁyﬁjaﬁw,,.,m_,,
, 3373’ 33‘ 3'3,,1,,;37‘,,"“”33 , , _. ,
. _, 33 ”’33 3 33:31 3’ "' ‘ '3'“ ”7 77, , , _ ,
|} 7 G~9$$ﬂ1ﬂniﬁm$ 77 _7W
33",3333?’ ,3 3’7,” 3 I”) , , _
3. 33.5333 '33 39,33, ”'93 ’3’” , , , , ,,,,, H , , _ ,
C 0’33 3“” 4’ 3 * 3- 3*? , ,, ,,, , _
,, 05333 33 ’3, 1.,"3 ”,3 3“,? 3’ , , , , _ -,,, ,i ,,
. 7399:9999:94999.1 , , , W
. 7 0 .9) 3 E'- .a 1 51 a 1 .9; -x 7 77 7 77 7
9.7333 “H” 317*” , , , , _, _
. 0-3339“ 9: 1 115.. 1 Huh
. _ 09-9393991219’1-9-13?m93§ 7 7 7 77 77 7 7
,, 0-9399‘991419179-3rwf977 77 77 7 77 777777 77 7 77 7 77 7
. 0'93991: '1. 31998 3 «E9 7 77 7 77777777 7 7
0-‘91353g1;:3.g'§-g 7 77 777 7 7 7
. 3"?“33T‘ 3 ’3‘ ‘3' 3".”9? - , h , . , m, , W
O , , , ,, , ,
D , ,, ,, , ,, ,_ _
. _, ,,,,, ,_ , ,__ k, , ,, ,,,__ _ W _- _

 




 

 

 

 

 

~~~~ 7" v ’ "‘" , ¥ ~— 7- 7—-~ 7-5—5 7 _ _¥ _ ¥_ ”W- - , 7 , 7 .
_ .A ,5 “~55 a “"5753“ i C _ _ , 5
7 7 7 g§mﬁ77§5 5.53 {:“E‘tww’7 7 7 77 77 7 7 7 7 .
7 {7';g€:7§f553555*“;;w“ 777 77 77 77
77 7 7 {'5th 3357:3575 541955.595» 7 ”77775.7 7 7 77 7777777 7 7 7 77 7 7
1%..ng zsgwwwx , .
7 _7 77777 7 77 7 _77___7 , 7,7, A _ ,_ w- ”H", _<_ , v ,, , 7 ~
7 7 HeQ§5¥ “*5va 7 7
.xﬂr; as x"; g” as”?
c, 534221;: 7': H a» 322- ‘g 7 7 7 7 7 7 .
i - H ,7 5 A ,H v v .
{'7} mC; 3% .53 ‘5‘ CL: m 5% 4 «w ‘ 77 7 7 77
ran-'23. ”Liam—m 7 7 7 7 .
H «at; 55:77:57} ‘5} P15504- I,’ 7 7777 7 77 77 7 7 7 7 777 7
C
77777 V: ”77“? 1'; r“ ii 7?: v 5 frag 7 7 7 7 77 77 77
aging/«:4 1‘~"’5«"" 7 7 77 7 77 7 77 7 7 7 .
,ﬁ {*5 ‘3‘" 5 7-5? u - _ f _, A ﬂ _ 5, C _
5 5 _, 5 5 5 O
{73 ~’; 5 4‘13 U 3 5'3 a- il u- 171‘ 7 7
7 Q73}: 55% I: i he a: 3 m 7 7 7 7 77 777 7 7 7 7 7 .
7 7 77 777 77 72;!15747757‘5 5}: ‘1'" J R” 5
WW , W M m , 5- 5‘“. ,M , ﬂ, 4 m-» - , 77 _ ,_ ﬂ _ _ .
I‘mfﬂﬁéql-‘flw’lém7 7 77 7 77 77 7
23503! 77" 3 “5-“: .3 MC 7 7 7 .
7 777 and?“ 551/JIMUHW‘E 7 7 77 77 7 7 777 7 7
5 O
., ”"5 55. 5-? 5 “" 55 *5 5“ 3. ,. a, _ - ,- .. n -r
7777755"7QE7L 55755m’57-j3‘ 7 77 7 7 7 77 7 .
, _ f 57,3535 ’55 1 5,5 “‘5 ' , , _ i i 5
n_ﬂ§h51hqu-r
f ' ; ”a -- u _ u
i i a O
, v ,, 7 7, , A; , 77 .

 




R.R. Bowker Company
1180 Avenue of the Americas
New York, New York 10036

212 764-5100

A Xerox Publishing Company

Octoberil980

Dear Publisher:

we are now in the process of preparing the 1980/1981 edition of the
SUPPLEMENT TO BOOKS IN PRINT to be published in April, 1981.

 

AIMS OF THE SUPPLEMENT

The SUPPLEMENT TO BOOKS IN PRINT is published each spring to provide
the users of Books in Print with any price changes or information on
titles which have gone out-of-print or out-of—stock since listed in
Books in Print 1980/1981. The 1980/1981 Supplement will also include
listings of the new books that you have published since you sent us
information for Books in Print 1980/1981, as well as the titles you
are planning to publish through July, 1981.

 

 

 

INFORMATION CONTAINED IN THE ENCLOSED PRINTOUT

The enclosed printout lists our complete record of all your titles
and their present status.

AREAS TO BE REVIEWED AND CORRECTED
Please review this printout and be certain to do the following:

1. Indicate all titles which have gone out-of-print or out—of-
stock indefinitely, or which will be by April, 1981. Draw a
line through these titles and mark them either O.P. or O.S.I.

Indicate any duplicate entries and/or canceled titles by draw-
ing a line through then and marking them "dup" or "canceled".

Check all prices to be certain we are listing the current price.

a. Tentative prices, i.e., 0.95t, should be corrected by deleting
the "t", or by changing the price.

b. If any entry carries a "price not set" notation instead of a
price, insert the correct price. we are unable to list pub-
lished titles which still carry a "price not set" notation.
Please note that a lower-case "x” after the price indicates a

short discount (20% or less).
Every entry should have a publication date. Published titles
should-carry the year of the c0pyright, forthcoming titles should
show actual publication date, both month and year.

Please make sure we are listing the correct edition of each title.

If you publish titles as part of a series, each individual title in
the series should carry the series name.

Correct any misspellings or other wrong information.

Please add Library of Congress numbers to every entry.

 




 

9. Please submit any new titles on Advance Book Information Forms.
IS THIS PRINTOUT COMPLETE AND INCLUSIVE?

As stated before, this printout represents our complete record of your published
titles. If there are any titles missing, please add them. If you are planning to
publish any new titles through July, 1981, please inform us of these and give us
complete bibliographic information for each book.

PLEASE REMEMBER THE SUBJECTS

Titles submitted through the Advance Book Information System appear in Bowker's
subject as well as author/title bibliographies. A number(s) from the general subject
classification list given in the ABI booklet should be put in the "Subject Category"
Section of the ABI form. Also, please include a sentence or two in the "Brief
Description of Book" section of the ABI form.

INTERNATIONAL STANDARD BOOK NUMBER (ISBN)

The 1980/1981 Books in Print is the first edition where each title or edition of a
title is listed with an ISBN. All publishers were notified and requested to submit a
valid ISBN for their titles.

During the past decade, the majority of the publishers complied with the requirements
of the standard and implemented the ISBN. At present, approximately 93% of all new titles
and all new editions are submitted for listing with a valid ISBN.

To fulfill the responsibility of accomplishing total book numbering, the ISBN Agency
allocated the ISBN prefixes 0-685 and 0—686 to number the titles in the Books in Print
database without an ISBN. Titles not having an ISBN at the closing date of this publica-
tion were assigned an ISBN with one of these prefixes by the International Standard Book
NUmbering Agency. ,

Titles numbered within the prefixes 0-685 and 0-686 are:

--Publishers Who did not assign ISBN's to their titles.

--Distributors with titles published and imported from countries, not in the ISBN

system, or not receiving the ISBN from the originating publisher.

--Errors from transposition and transcription which occurred in transmitting the ISBN

to the Books in Print database.

All the ISBN listed in Books in Print are validated by using the check digit control,
and only valid ISBN are listed in the Books in Print database. .

All publishers participating in the ISBN system having titles numbered within the
prefixes 0—685 and 0-686 will receive a computer printout, requesting them to submit the
correct ISBN.

Publishers not participating in the ISBN system may request from the ISBN Agency the
assignment of an ISBN Publisher Prefix, and start numbering their titles.

By having an ISBN for each title and edition of a title, order fulfillment and inventory
control systems will be albe to operate more efficiently and economically.

The ISBN Agency will produce and publish an ISBN Index on microfiche. Users encountering
an ISBN in the range of 0-685 and 0-686 who are unable to identify the title in their file,
will be able to refer to the ISBN microfiche Index. Each ISBN in the Index will have the
information on title, author and publisher, or a cross reference to another ISBN. When
publishing rights are sold and the title is published under the new imprint with a separate
ISBN, the ISBN Index will carry a cross reference from the previous ISBN to the new one.

The Book Industry System Advisory Committee (BISAC) developed a standard format for data
transmission, and many companies are already accepting orders transmitted on magnetic tape
using the ISBN. Another standard format by BISAC for title updating is under develOpment.

The ISBN Agency and the Data Services Division of the Bowker Company wish to express their
appreciation to all publishers who collaborated in making the ISBN system the standard of the
publishing industry.

For additional information related to the ISBN total numbering, please refer to Emery
Koltay, Director of the ISBN Agency of the R, R. Bowker Company.

 




IN ACCORDANCE WITH OUR TOTAL BOOK NUMBERING:
_—Review all ISBN's carefully.
_—Be sure to assign your number in place of all Bowker assigned 0—685 and 0-686 prefixes.
-—Refer to ISBN instruction sheet for any questions involving numbering.

IMPORTANCE OF RETURN OF CHECKLISTS AND BOWKER DEADLINE

The return of your corrected printouts is essential if the correct information is to
appear not only in BOOKS IN PRINT SUPPLEMENT, but also in these Bowker book buying tools
to be published in the spring of 1981: PAPERBOUND BOOKS IN PRINT: SPRING, MEDICAL BOOKS &
SERIALS IN PRINT 1981 and BUSINESS BOOKS & SERIALS IN PRINT 1981.

 

Return these printouts to us whether or not there are corrections. The return of these
printouts is our way of verifying that you are still an active publisher.

To maintain our publication schedule, we must have your corrected printouts returned to
us no later than November 7, 1980.

Sincerely yours,

ﬂan/c

Brenda A. Sutton
Senior Database Production Manager
Department of Bibliography

 

If you have any questions concerning:
.._bj_b]_iographic entries, contact: frames Vii/33337 1212—7642757
--subject classification, contact: Dean Hollister 212/764—5229

-—Name/Address Checklist, contact: Anne Wilson 212/764—2755

 




ONE MORE THING!

Bowker is considering pubiication of a COLLEGE TEXT bibTiography. PTease submit any
of your COLLEGE TEXT titTes not aTready Tisted in BOOKS IN PRINT. with an indication
that they are COLLEGE TEXTS. ETease send your COLLEGE TEXT cataTog, whether or not

you are submitting ABI forms. FinaTTy, pTease indicate which titTes on your checkTist
are COLLEGE TEXTS.

Thank you.

 




Dear Publisher:

Please disregard the deadline date given in the accompanying'letter. YOUR DEADLINE

IS NOVEMBER lhTH. Please return the material to us by that time.

Thank you.

 




 

INTERNATIONAL STANDARD BOOK NUMBERING AGENCY

Numbering Systems in Publishing and Library Practices

1180 Avenue of the Americas, New York 10036 212—764-3384

A collaboration between the Association of American Publishers, American National Standards Institute
-—Committee Z39, Library of Congress and RR. Bowker Company—A Xerox Publishing Company

INSTRUCTIONS FOR THE MAJOR ISSUES IN IMPLEMENTATION

 

OF THE ISBN

 

FORMAT When the number is either written or printed, it must be preceded by the
letters ISBN, and each part must be separated by a hyphen. EXAMPLE: ISBN 0-670-
38744-4 or International Standard Book Number 0-670-38744-4

 

ISBN CAN NEVER BE RE—USED Once an ISBN is assigned to a title, it CANNOT BE
REASSIGNED, even if the title is out of print. In addition to being an order
fulfillment tool, the ISBN also serves as a bibliographic element in cataloging.
It is printed on millions of catalog cards and entered in national and interna-
tional bibliographic tools.

 

EDITIONS/BINDINGS A separate ISBN must be assigned to the different formats in
which a particular title is published: paper, cloth, microfilm, microfiche, braille,
multi-media cassette, etc. Revised edition requires a new ISBN.

 

 

MULTI-VOLUME WORKS An ISBN must be assigned to the whole set of volumes of a multi-
volume work, as well as to each individual volume in the set. Publishers promoting
the set as a whole should list only the ISBN for the whole set. Whenever individual
volumes are promoted separately, they should include the ISBN. The ISBN for each
individual volume and the ISBN for the set should be printed in each volume, EXAMPLE:
ISBN 0-670-01039-1 (VOlume 1)
ISBN 0-670—01042-1 (Set) or similar wording.

 

BACKLIST Publishers are required to number backlist title and publish their ISBN
in catalogs. They must also print the ISBN in the first available reprint of a
backlist item.

PRINTING ON HARDCOVER BOOKS The ISBN should be printed on the verso of the title
page or, if this is not possible, at the foot of the title page itself. It shall
also appear at the right foot of the outside back cover and at the right foot of
the back of the jacket. The print size on the cover and jacket is 12 point.

 

PRINTING ON PAPERBACK In addition to the places mentioned above, ISBN should
appear on the spine of the book. When price code appears with ISBN, use the
following form: ISBN O-XXX-XXXXXEX 195 (allow two spaces between ISBN and price

code).

 

PRINTING OF THE ISBN IN PROMOTIONAL MATERIALS The complete "lo—digit" ISBN must
always appear in the book and all promotional materials. An ISBN is only valid and
can be validated only when all "IO-digits" are displayed. All ISBN from foreign
countries have country identifiers which are absolutely necessary for validation:
France 2-, Germany 3-, Holland 90- etc. However, in catalog running many pages,
where space saving is the publisher' concern, you may list only the title number
preceded by a hyphen and the check digit, provided that the ISBN prefix is printed
in the running head ON EACH PAGE. EXAMPLE:

UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO PRESS ISBN PREFIX 0-226
-OOO86-9

 

Director: Emery l. Koltay
Officers: Beatrice Jacobson.

Advrsory Board: Dr. Jerrold Orne—Chmn. ANSI Committee 239; Robert F. Asleson—Pres.. RR Bowker Co; Herbert W. Bell—Sr. V. Pres. McGraw-Hill Book Co; Harald Bohne-Canadian Book Pub.
Owned 8. Independent Pubs. Assn; Paul J. Fasana—Chieioi Preparation Serwces. NYPL; Robert R. Holmes—Asst. Dlr, Processing. LC; L. Clark Hamilton—Dir. Bibliographic Systems Office. LC; Paul
McCormick—Dir. ISBN Agency. Nai'l Library of Canada; Russell Reynolds—-Exec. Dir. NACS; G. Roysce Smith —-Exec. le.. ABA.

 




CO-PUBLICATION A publication issued as a co—edition or joint imprint with another
publisher can be assigned an ISBN by each publisher. However, if only one publisher
is in charge with distribution, only that publisher shall assign the ISBN.

 

 

PUBLISHERS ACQUIRING ANOTHER COMPANY WITH "ISBN PREFIX" The originally assigned
ISBN must be used until the book is reprinted under the new publisher's imprint.
Promptly report to the ISBN Agency any name and address changes, mergers, ceased
publications, acquisitions, etc.

 

PUBLISHERS ACQUIRING COMPLETE STOCK OF ANOTHER COMPANY Publisher must use the ISBN
of the ORIGINAL PUBLISHER (if assigned), until the new company reprints under OWN
IMPRINT.

 

ISBN LINKAGE If a book has been acquired from another publisher, has been reprinted
and carries the imprint of the new publisher and the new publisher's ISBN, then the
new publisher must give the ISBN of the previous edition as well as his own, on the
verso of the title page. EXAMPLE:

 

ISBN 0-666-00123-5 (previously published by XY under ISBN 0—8420—0091-X) or
ISBN 0-666—00123-5 (previously ISBN 0-8420—0091-X)
DISTRIBUTORS A distributor, even an exclusive distributor, must use the ISBN of the

ORIGINAL PUBLISHER in all promotional materials. If U.S. publisher does not have an
ISBN Publisher Prefix, have the publisher contact the ISBN Agency.

 

When a foreign publisher is from a country that has not yet implemented the ISBN, the
distributor must contact the ISBN Agency for approval to assign his own number until
the country comes into the system.

 

 

we wish to stress the importance of implementing the ISBN system and observing, exactly,
the standard rules. Any deviation, i.e., omitting the Country Identifier and ISBN
Publisher Prefix, or dropping the check digit, would make communication impossible
between ordering fulfillment units.

If you have additional Questions, contact the ISBN Agency, R.R. Bowker Company,
1180 Avenue of the Americas, New York, New York 10036. Phone 212/764/3384.

 




R.R. Bowker Company
1180 Avenue of the Americas
New York, New York 10036

212 764—5100

A Xerox Publishing Company

Dear Publisher:

NAME/ADDRESS CHECKLIST

The enclosed printout, labeled NAME/ADDRESS CHECKLIST, represents
your name and address information as it exists on our PUBLISHER
AUTHORITY DATABASE which is used to produce all publisher indexes
for products of the Department of Bibliography (e.g. BOOKS IN PRINT,
SUBJECT GUIDE TO BOOKS IN PRINT, FORTHCOMING BOOKS) and a Directory
of United States Publishers.

Please review this information and make any additions and/or
corrections directly on the printout.

Any time your name or address changes, please let us know as soon as
possible. If our checklists are returned by the post office with
"moved, left no forwarding address" and we cannot locate your new
address we will record you in our database as "moved, left no
forwarding address".

YOu may supply separate contact names (the person to whom Bowker's
checklists should be sent) where applicable: ADVANCE BOOK INFORMATION,
BOOKS IN PRINT, ADVANCE BOOK INFORMATION/BOOKS IN PRINT or ALL.

IMPORTANT:

 

1. Indicate any change in your firm name. Indicate alternative
names (not imprints) if your firm currently has any.

2. Indicate the address at which your books should be ordered if
it is different from your editorial address. Checklists are
sent to your editorial address.

If you maintain a P.O. Box address, please let us have a
telephone number and contact name where you can be reached.
Include telephone number and ISBN prefix if missing or changed.
Indicate your imprints and supply ordering address, editorial
address, telephone number, and contact names when any of these
items are different than those for your parent firm.

Indicate on the printout if you are no longer in business.
After reviewing this information, return the NAME/ADDRESS
CHECKLIST with your BIP SUPPLEMENT 80—81 CHECKLIST.

If this printout is not returned, we cannot quarantee you a
'ESrrect listing inﬂour indexes. ——
If there are no Eorrections, indicate this on the printout.

 

 

 

 

 

ARE YOU GOING OUT OF BUSINESS?

For the purpose of our bibliographies we will consider you to be in
business so long as your titles are available from:
1. your company or
2. a distributor with sole U.S. distribution rights or
3. another publisher who has obtained sole distribution
rights.

 




If distribution rights to your titles have been sold to another distributor or
publisher please give us their name and address and enclose a letter with full

particulars.

If your titles are no longer available from any of those three sources, indicate
"out of business" on both of the enclosed checklists.

IMPORTANCE OF RETURN OF CHECKLISTS AND BOWKER DEADLINE

The return of your corrected checklist is essential if the correct information
is to appear in the Key to Publishers and Distributors' Abbreviations.

Return this checklist to us whether or not there are corrections. The return of
this checklist is our way of verifying that you the publisher have reviewed your
information as it is currently listed in Bowker's Publishers Authority Database.

NOTE: In the absence of returned corrected/uncorrected checklist, or a
postal return, the current address listed on this checklist will
be published in the next edition of BOOKS IN PRINT SUPPLEMENT 1980
and other Bowker bibliographies°

To maintain our publication schedule, we must have your corrected checklists
returned to us no later than

Sincerely yours,

M W

Anne Wilson
Project Manager, Bibliography/Systems
212-764—2755

 




THE ISBN SYSTEM
Users’- Manual

INTERNATIONAL ISBN AGENCY
BERLIN 1975

 




 

lSBN 3-88053-002—5
© 1975 by Internationale lSBN—Agentur,
Staatsbibliothek PreuBischer Kulturbesitz, Berlin

Permission is granted for the reprinting of any material in this brochure,
subjectto due acknowledgement of the source andto two voucher copies

being sent to the Internationale ISBN Agentur.

Printed in Germany 1975 by Druckhaus Rombach+Co GmbH, 78 Freiburg.
Graphic design Jochen Halbach

 

 

 

 




 

I Background

1. The queStion of the need and feasibility of an international
numbering system for books was first. discussed at the third
International Conference on Book Market Research and
Rationalization in the Book Trade held in November 1966 in
Berlin.

At that time a number of publishers and book distributors‘in
Europe were considering the use of compute-rs in order pro-
cessing and inventory control and it was evident that a pre-
requisite of an efficient machine system was a unique and simple
identification number for a published item.

2. The system which fulfilled this requirement and which became
known as the International Standard Book Number (ISBN) ‘syStem
developed out of the book numbering system introduced into the
United Kingdom in 1967.

3. In a report to the British Publishers Association, Professor
F. G. Foster of the London School of Economics stated that there
was . . a clear need for the introduction into the book trade of
standard numbering . . . and substantial benefits would accrue to
all parties therefrom”. After further study and deliberation, a
detailed plan for standard numbering was produced.

4. At the same time, the Technical Committee Documentation of
the International Standards Organisation (ISO/TC 46) set up a
working party (with the British Standards Institution acting as
secretariat) to investigate the possibility of adapting the British
system for international use.

5. A meeting was held in London in 1968 with representatives from
Denmark, France, Federal Republic of Germany, Eire, the Nether—
lands, Norway, the United Kingdom, the United States of America
and an observer from UNESCO. Other countries contributed
written suggestions and expressions of interest. A report of the
meeting was circulated to all countries belonging to the ISO.
Comments on this report and subsequent proposals were con—
sidered at meetings held in Berlin and Stockholm in 1969.

6. As a result of these meetings there emerged the ISO Recom-
mendation 2108* which sets out the principles and procedure for
international standard book numbering.

* Obtainable from national standards organisations. For an abstract see appendix.

3

 




   
   

7. The purpose of the ISO Recommendation is to coordinate and
standardize internationally the use of book numbers so that an
international Standard Book Number (ISBN) identifies one title
or edition of a title from one specific publisher and is unique to
that edition.

The ISBN applies in the main to books —- for which the system
was originally created —— but, by extension, it may be used for any
item produced by publishers or collected by libraries (for more
detailed definition see section III, The scope of the ISBN). When
,,book“ is used in the manual it should always be taken in this
wider sense. The same is true as far as a definition of publisher
~ is concerned.

8. This manual explains how the system works and what has to
be done to ensure that International Standard Book Numbers
are correctly assigned.

II How the International
Standard Book Number (ISBN)
is built up

1. Every International Standard Book Number (ISBN) consists of
ten digits and whenever it is printed it is preceded by the letters
ISBN.

Note: In those countries where the Latin alphabet is not used, an
abbreviation in the characters of the local alphabet may be used
in addition to the Latin letters ISBN.

2. The ten-digit number is divided into four parts of variable
length, each part when printed being separated by a hyphen or
space. '

Note: Experience suggests that the hyphen is preferable to the
space.

3. The four parts are as follows:

Part 1. Group Identifier
This part identifies the national, geographic or other similar
grouping of publishers.

4

    

 

 




 

 

Part 2. Publisher Identifier
This part identifies a particular publisher within a group.

Part 3. Title Identifier
This part identifies a particular title or edition of a title published
by a particular publisher.

Part 4. Check Digit
This is a single digit at the end of the ISBN which provides an
automatic check on the correctness of the ISBN.

4. Group identifier

Group identifiers are allocated by the International ISBN Agency
and a publisher wishing to participate in the ISBN system must
belong to a recognized ISBN group.

Groups are determined by national, geographic, language or
other pertinent considerations. Experience has shown that
groups based on national or geographic considerations are the
most satisfactory.

(For the distribution of ranges see par. 8 of this section.)

5. Publisher identifier

The publisher identifier designates the publisher of a given book.
Publishers with a large output of books are assigned a short
publisher identifier; publishers with a small output of books are
assigned a longer publisher identifier. (For an example of the
distribution of publisher identifiers according of their variable
length see par. 8 of this section.)

6. Title identifier

The title identifier is assigned to a particular title or edition of a
title by the publisher from within the range of numbers assigned
to him and which will depend upon the length of his publisher
identifier.

Title identifiers are normally assigned by the publisher himself
(but see also section V, Non-participating publishers). Publishers
who assign their own title identifiers may use them to identify
titles in the publishing house throughout the planning stages.

7. Check digit
The “Check digit” is the last digit in an ISBN and is computed
as the result of an elaborate calculation on the other nine digits.

5

 




 

This calculation is performed almost instantaneously by an elec-
tronic computing device, and is a means of detecting incorrectly
transcribed numbers.

According to the ISO Recommendation No. 2108 “the check digit
is calculated on a modulus 11 with weights 10—2, using X in lieu
of 10 where ten would occur as a check digit.“

This means that each of the first nine digits of the ISBN — i. e.
excluding the check digit itself — is multiplied by a number
ranging from 10 to 2 and that the sum of the products thus ob-
tained, plus the check digit, must be divisible, without remainder,
by 11. For example:

 

Group Publisher Title Check
Identifier Prefix Number Digit
ISBN.. . . O 8 4 3 6 1 0 7 2 7
Weight . . 10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2
Products . . 0+72+32+21+36 + 5+O+21+4 plus 7
Total: 198

As 198 can be divided by 11 without remainder O 8436 1072 7 is a
valid International Standard Book Number.

8. The number of digits in each part; and how to recognise
them in an ISBN.

The number of digits in each of the identifying parts 1, 2 and 3
is variable, though the total sum of digits contained in these
parts is always 9. These nine digits together with the check digit
bring the total number of digits in an ISBN to ten.

The number of digits in the group identifier will vary according
to the likely output of books in a group. Thus groups with an
expected large output will get numbers of one or two digits and
publishers with an expected large output will get numbers of
two or three digits. Exceptionally, a onedigit number may be
assigned to a publisher but it will be appreciated that the
assignment of one digit publisher identifiers greatly reduces the
range of possible identifiers in the group.

For ease of reading, the four parts of the ISBN are devided by
spaces or hyphens. These spaces or hyphens, however, are not
retained in the computer which depends upon the special distri-
bution of ranges of numbers for the recognition of the parts.

6

 

 

 




 

 

 

The following table gives the range distribution of the group
identifiers:
0—7
80—94
950—997
9980—99899
99900—999999

The following table is an example of the range distribution of
publisher identifiers: Assuming a group identifier of one digit
only, the publisher identifier ranges might be as shown in the
left-hand column and the title identifiers as shown in the right-
hand column.

Publisher Identifier Total Numbers Available for

Title Identification
00—1 9 1,000,000
200—699 100,000
7,000—8,499 10,000
85,000—89,999 1 ,000
900,000—949,999 1 00

9,500,000—9,999,999 10

Ill The Scope of the ISBN

For the purposes of the ISBN system books and other items to be
numbered include:

Printed books and pamphlets

Micro-form publications

Braille publications

Mixed media publications

Machine-readable tapes designed to produce readable print-out
Other similar media

Except

Ephemeral printed materials such as diaries, calenders, adverti-
sing matter and the like

Art prints and art folders without title page and text
Sound recordings
Serial publications (but see section IX ISBN and ISSN).

 




 

 

 

 

 

”IV Principles and procedures to be
observed by the publisher _
numbering his own publications

1. A publisher must ensure that a competent person is respon-
sible for the assignment of ISBN and the application of the perti—
nent regulations.

2. A publisher will be assigned a publisher identifier by the group
agency which will determine the range of title identifiers
"available to him. The number of title identifiers will depend upon
the length of the publisher identifier assigned to him and the
publisher should ensure that the group agency has as full infor-
mation as possible about his back lists of books still available, and
present and future publication programmes in order that a suit-
able publisher identifier can be assigned.

3. A publisher is respOnsible for assigning title identifiers to the
individual items that he” publishes.

4. A publisher may wish to incorporate an existing non classify-
ing identification system into his ISBN allocation. This may be
arranged provided that such incorporation does not alter the
fundamental characteristics of the ISBN system or reduce the
amount of numbers available. For example: the publisher must not
incorporate digits other than numerals, nor must he incorporate
numbers which cause the resulting ISBN to be longer than or
shorter than ten digits, nor must the publisher attempt to build
in special meanings or hierarchical order to groups of numbers
if by so doing he reduces the amount of available numbers in the
range allocated to him.

V Non-participating publishers

If by choice or for any other reason, a publisher does not accept
responsibility for assigning ISBN to his publications, two alter-
natives are open to the group agency. "

1. The group agency can allocate a block of numbers for mis-
cellaneous publishersand number all titles within that block
irrespective of the publisher. In such a case the resulting ISBN
will not identify the publisher of a specific title.

8




(It is strongly recommended that this procedure should be re-
served for publishers who only publish an occasional title and
who are never likely to be in a position to assume the responsi-
bility for numbering themselves.)

2. The group agency can assume responsibility for assigning a
publisher identifier and a block of ISBN associated with that
publisher identifier, assign a number to each publication and
inform the publisher before publication of the number assigned.

In such a case, and if the publisher agrees to do so, the ISBN can
be printed in the book. It is expected that such a publisher will
eventually assume full responsibility for assigning his own ISBN.

VI Application of ISBN

1 . General

A separate ISBN must be assigned to every different edition of a
book, but NOT to an unchanged impression or unchanged reprint
of the same book in the same format and by the same publisher.
Price changes do not need new ISBN.

2. Facsimile reprints

A separate ISBN must be assigned to a facsimile reprint pro—
duced by a different publisher. ‘

3. Books in different formats

A separate ISBN must be assigned to the different formats in
which a particular title is published. For example:

a hard back edition and a paper back edition each receives a
separate ISBN. On the same principle, a microform edition re-
ceives a separate ISBN.

4. Multi-volume works

An ISBN must be assigned to the whole set of volumes of a
multi-volume work as well as to each individual volume in the set.

5. Back-stock
A publisher is required to number his back stock and publish the
ISBN in his catalogues.

He must also print the ISBN in the first available reprint of an
item from his back stock.

 




6. Collaborative publications

A publication issued as a co-edition or joint imprint with other
publishers is assigned an ISBN by the publisher in charge of
distribution.

7. Books sold or distributed by agents

a) According to the principles of the ISBN system, a particular
edition, published by a particular publisher receives only one
ISBN and this ISBN must be retained no matter where or by
whom the book is distributed or sold.

b) A book imported by an exclusive distributor or sole agent
from an area not yet in the ISBN system and for which there-
fore no ISBN has been assigned, may be assigned an ISBN
by the exclusive distributor.

c) A book imported by an exclusive distributor or sole agent to
which a new title page, bearing the imprint of the exclusive
distributor, has been added in place of the title page of the

. original publisher, is to be given a new ISBN by the exclusive
distributor or sole agent. The ISBN of the original publisher
is also to be given as a related ISBN (See section VII.3.
Multiple ISBN).

d) A book imported by several distributors from an area not yet
in the ISBN system and for which, therefore, no ISBN has been
assigned, .may be assigned an ISBN by the group agency
responsible for those distributors.

8. Publishers with more than one place of publication

a) A publisher operating in a number of places which are listed
together in the imprint of a book will assign only one ISBN to
the book.

A publisher operating separate and distinct offices, or branch-
es in different placesmay have a publisher identifier for
each office or branch. Nevertheless, each book published is
to be assigned only one ISBN, the assignment being made by
the office or branch responsible for publication.

b

V

9. Register of ISBN

Every publisher must keep a register of ISBN that have been
assigned to published and forthcoming books. The register is to
be kept in numerical sequence giving ISBN, author, title and edi-
tion (where appropriate).

10

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

10. ISBN not to be re-used under any circumstances

An ISBN once allocated must, under no circumstances, be re-used.
This is of the utmost importance to avoid confusion. It is recog—
nized that, owing to clerical errors, numbers will be incorrectly
assigned. If this happens, the number must be deleted from the list
of useable numbers and must not be assigned to another title.
Every publisher will have. sufficient numbers in his range for the
loss of these numbers to be insignificant. Publishers should
advise the group agency of the numbers thus deleted and 'of the
titles to which they were erroneously assigned. '

VII Printing of the ISBN

1. General

The ISBN must appear on the item itself. This is essential for the
efficient running of the system.

2. Printing of ISBN on books
In the case of books, the ISBN must appear whenever possible:

On the reverse of the title-page, or, if‘this is not possible, on the
base of the title page, or, if this too is not possible, at some other
conspicuous location in the book.

On the base of the spine.
On the back of the cover in nine-point type or larger.

On the back of the dust-jacket, and on the back of any other
protective case or wrapper.

The ISBN should always be printed in type large enough to be
easiliy legible (e. g. not smaller than 9 point).

VIII Administration of the ISBN
system

1. General

The administration of the ISBN system is carried on at three
levels. These are the international, group and publisher levels.

11

 




 

2. International administration

The international administration of the system is in the hands of
the International Standard Book Number Agency which has an
Advisory Panel representing the ISO and the publishing and
library world.

The address of the International Agency is:

The INTERNATIONAL STANDARD BOOK NUMBER AGENCY
Staatsbibliothek Preussischer Kulturbesitz
D-1000 Berlin 30

Reichpietschufer 72/76

Postfach 1407

Telex: 183 160

Tel.: (030) 2661 Ext. 2338, 2337, 2478

 

The principal functions of the INTERNATIONAL AGENCY are:

To supervise the use of the system
To approve the definition and structure of groups
To allocate identifiers to groups

To advise groups on the setting up and functioning of group
agencies

To advise group agencies on the allocation of publisher identifiers
To promote the world-wide use of the system '

In addition, the INTERNATIONAL AGENCY also offers the follow-
ing services. It will:

Provide a group agency with lists of ISBN (with computer-
generated check digits) for the use of publishers in the group.

Provide international registers of publishers identifiers and pub-
lishers’ names.

Provide from information supplied by group agencies a com-
puter print-out of lists of publisher identifiers, names and
locaﬁons.

Provide from information supplied by group agencies a computer
print-out of invalid or duplicate ISBN.

12

 

 

 




 

 

 

3. Group administration

Groups (see section 2.4) are administered by GROUP AGENCIES.
Within the group there may be several national agencies, e. g.
group 0/1 has separate agencies in USA, United Kingdom,
Canada, Australia etc. with the main agency for the whole group
in the U. K.

The functions of a group agency are:
To manage and administer the affairs of the group.

To handle relations with the International ISBN Agency on behalf
of all the publishers in the group.

To decide, in consultation with trade organisations and pub-
lishers, the publisher identifier ranges required.

To allocate publisher identifiers to publishers eligible to join the
group and to maintain a register of publishers and their publisher
identifiers.

To decide, in consultation with trade organisations and pub-
lishers, which publishers shall assign numbers to their own titles
and which publishers shall have numbers assigned to their titles
by the group agency.

To provide technical advice and assistance to the publishers and
to ensure that standards and approved procedures are observed
in the group.

To make available a manual of instruction for publishers.

To make available computer print-outs of ISBN to publishers
numbering their own books with check digits already calculated.
(Such print-outs may be obtained from the INTERNATIONAL
AGENCY on request.)

To validate all ISBN assigned by publishers numbering their
own books and keep a register of them.

To inform publishers of any invalid or duplicate ISBN assigned
by them.

'To assign numbers to all publications from those publishers
who do not assign their own ISBN and advise the publishers
concerned of ISBN assigned upon request.

To achieve, thereby, total numbering in the group.

To arrange with book listing and bibliographic agencies for the
publication of ISBN with the titles to which they refer.

13

 




 

To arrange with publishers for the numbering of their back lists
and for the publication of these in appropriate trade lists and
bibliographies.

To maintain liason with all elements of the book trade and
introduce new publishers to the system.

To assist the trade in the use of the ISBN in computer systems.

IX ISBN and ISSN

In addition to the International Standard Book Number System,
a complementary numbering system for serial publications has
also been established.

A serial is defined as any publication issued in successive parts,
usually bearing numerical or chronological designations and
intended to be continued indefinitely. Serials include periodicals,
yearbooks and monographic series.

The International Standard Serial Number (ISSN) is administered
by the International Center for the Registration of Serials (ISDS),
whose address is:

International Serial Data System
20 Rue Bachaumont
75002 Paris, FRANCE

 

Publishers of serials should apply to the International Serials
Data System or to their Natural Serials Data Centre, if there is
one, for ISBN for their serial publications.

Certain publications, such as yearbooks, annuals, monographic
series, etc., should be assigned an ISSN for the serial title (which
will remain the same for all the parts or individual volumes of the
serial) and an ISBN for each individual volume of a year-book,
annual, monographic series, etc.

Both ISSN and ISBN where they are assigned must be given on
the publication and clearly identified.

14

 

 




 

 

 

 

Appendix

Extract from ISO Recommendation No. 2108:
Documentation — International standard book
numbering (ISBN)

1 SCOPE AND FIELD OF APPLICATION

The purpose of this International Standard is to co-ordinate and
standardize internationally the use of book numbers so that an
international standard book number identifies one title, or edition
of a title, from one specific publisher, and is unique to that title
or edition. To this end, it specifies the construction of an inter-
national standard book number and the location of the printed
number on the book.

2 CONSTRUCTION OF AN INTERNATIONAL STANDARD BOOK
NUMBER

An international standard book number consists of ten digits"
made up of the following parts:

— group identifier (i.e. national, geographical, language or other
convenient group);

—— publisher identifier;
—- title identifier;
— check digit.

When an international standard book number is either written
or printed it shall be preceded by the letters ISBN, and each part
shall be separated by a space or a hyphen as in the following
examples:

ISBN 0 571 08989 5
ISBN 90-7000-234-5

2.1 Group identifier

The group identifier will be allocated by an international standard
book number agency. It will vary in length from group to group
according to the title output of the group concerned.

1) These digits are the arabic numerals 0 to 9; in the case of the check digit only,
an X can sometimes occur (see 2.4).

15

 




2.2 Publisher identifier

The publisher identifier will be allocated internally within the
group, by the agency appointed for this purpose. It will vary in
length from publisher to publisher according to the title output of
the publisher concerned.

2.3 Title identifier

The length of the title identifier will be determined by the length
of the group and publisher identifiers which precede it.

2.4 Check digit

The check digit is calculated on a modulus 11 with weights 10-2,
using X in lieu of 10where 10 would occur as a check digit.2

3 PRINTING ON BOOKS

The international standard book number shall be printed on the
verso of the title-leaf or, if this is not possible, at the foot of the
title-leaf itself (see ISO/R 1086). It shall also appear at the foot of
the outside‘back cover if practicable, and at the foot of the back
of the jacket if the book has one; if neither of these alternatives is
possible, then the number shall be printed in some other pro-
minent position on the outside.

2) See International Standard ISO... concerning ISBN guidelines. (In preparation;

16

 




iNTERNATIONAL STANDARD BOOK NUMBERING AGENCY

Numbering Systems in Publishing and Library Practices

1180 Avenue of the Americas, New York 10036 212-764-3384

 

A coiiaboration between the Association of American Publishers, American National Standards Institute
-—Committee 239, Library of Congress and R.R. Bowker Company—A Xerox Education Company

Dear Publisher:

To expedite accurate numbering of your publications, we generated
the enclosedm wg Book for you.

ISBN should be assigned to your active backlist, as well as forth-
coming titles, as follows:

One ISBN for EACH separate binding.
(paper, hard, deluxe, etc.)

MULTI-VOLUME SETS require an ISBN for EACH volume
and a separate ISBN for the SET.

A new ISBN is required for a REVISED edition.

Once assigned, an ISBN CANNOT be reassigned
when title is out of print.

Distributors MUST use the ISBN of the ORIGINAL publisher.

 

Enter titles in the Log Book for permanent reference and to avoid
duplication.

Make sure your ISBN are reported on the ABI forms your promotion director
sends to R.R. Bowker for listing in Books in Print. Request ABI forms
from Supervisor, Advance Book Information Department, R.R. Bowker Co.
(212/764-2785)

 

Thank you for your collaboration. Contact us if you have further questions.

"Sincerely,

5%, A .661;

Director: Emery i. Kolta‘y’

/
Emery oltay

Director

EK:bj

Officers: Beatrice Jacobson, Leigh C. Yuster

 

Advisory Board Dr Je ioid Orne C‘imn.ANSICommi1-‘-ee 23:1} Heriieit W. Be ii Sr V Pres McGraw- Hill E? Wok Co. Ha aid {johns-Car. adian- Book i m Council :3

lndep. Puhs. n Palii Gamma—a. Press A R. Bowker Co qui ' Fasma— Ci'ne'oipiomraiion Serv. NW ‘t, Robert W Frase-COHSLHHM. Robert R LioimnsmAssi Dir. (I. C
Dr. Carol A Nome-yer -Sr. Assoc AAP i 2. Leon Patenaude~0ir L ‘en. Association des Edizeurs Canadians 8. Somete des Ediieur; do Manuals Scalar/es du Quebec Russeii
Revnolds~£xec. Dir. NACS, (3. Roysco Smith~tx9o Dir. ABA

J

 




 

INTERNATIONAL STANDARD BOOK NUMBERING AGENCY ‘ ”
Numbering Systems in Publishing and Library Practices

‘ 1180 Avenue of the Americas New York 10036 212- 764— 3384
A collaboration between the Association of American Publishers, American National Standards Institute
—Committee Z39, Library of Congress and RR. Bowker Company—A Xerox Publishing Company

THE MGR ISSUES IN IMPLEMTATION OF THE ISBN.

 

PRINTING THE ISBN ' 1 -
When the number is either written or printed, it must be preeeded by the letters
ISBN, and each part must be separated by a twphen. EXAMPLE:

ISM 0-6?0~3§8744-4 or
International Standard Book Number 0-670-38744~4

ISBN CAN NEVER BE RE-S’SED . ~

Once an ISBN is assigued to a title, it CAMBOT BB REASSIGNED even if the title is
out of print. In addition to being an order fulfillment tooI, the ISBN also serves
as a bibliographic element in cataloging. It is printed on mllions of catalog
cards and entered in national and internatmnal bibliographie tools.

 

When a title is reprinted, regardless of price change, the original ISBN must be
maintained.

 

EDITIONS/BINDING

A separate ISBN must be assigned to the different formats in which a particular title '
is published: paper, cloth, microfilm, microfiche, braille, multimedia cassette, etc.
Revised editions require a new ISBN. - ,

 

HULTI—VOLUME WORKS

An ISBN! must be assigned to the whole set of volumes of a multi-volume work, as well
as to each individual volume in the set. Publishers promotisig the set as a whole
should list only the ISBN for the whole set. Whenever individual volumes are promo ted
separately, they should include the ISBN. The ISBN for each individual volume and

the ISBN for the, set: should be printed in each volume. -

W: ISBN 0-670-01639-1 (Volume 13
ISBN 0-"67'0-01045-6 (6 Volmne St)-

 

BACKLIST

Publishers are required to number backlist titles and publish their ISBN in their
catalogs. The ISBN must also be printed in the first available reprint of a backlist
title.

PRINTING ON HARDCOVEB BOOKS ' ' ’ .

The ISBN should be printed on the verso of the title page (copyright page). It shall
also appear at the right foot of the outside back cover and at the right foot of the

back jacket. To meet the special needs of retail check—put, publishers should print

an additional ISBN on the upper edge of the left hand jacket flap.

 

PRINTING ON PAPERBACK '

In addition to the verso of the title page and right foot of the outside back cover,
Bfor the special needs of paperback retailers, wholesalers and independent distributors,

the ISBN should be printed on the upper right hand corner of the front cover of all

mass market paperback books and on the spine of the book. When price is printed with

the ISBN, use the following form: -

 

ISBN O-XXX-NXXXN—.X 2.95 (allow 2 spaces between ISBN and price code)

 

When price changes, the original ISBN must be maintained.

Director. Emeryl Koltay
Officers: Beatrice Jacobson, Leigh C. Yuster

 

Advisory Board: Dr Jerrold Orne— Chmn ANSI Comm/(tee 239 Robert F. Asleson— Pres R R. Bowker Co Herbert W. Bell— Sr. V. Pres McGraw- Hill Book Co.; Harald Bohne—— Cana

.Counci/8. Independent Pubs Assn PaulJ. Fasana— Chlef of Preparation Serwces NYPL; Robert R. H PUD
olmes— Asst. Dr Processm LC L C B l
McCormick— D/r. ISBN Agency Nat/Library of Canada Russell Reynolds —.Exec Dir. NACS G. Roysce Smith— Exec]. Dir. ABA. g lark HamIlton— D” IbIograph/c Systems" Ofﬁce LC Paul

N

 




IMPORTANT: NEW PRINTING STYLE

The Book Industry Systems Advisory Committee (BISAC) adopted the OCR A (optical
character recognition) to meet the special needs of retail check-outs and inventory
control. All ISBN will be printed in OCR A format.- Printing instructions will be
available through the ISBN Agency.

 

PRINTING OF THE ISBN IN PROMOTIONAL MATERIALS
The complete "10— —digit" ISBN should appear in the book and all promotional materials.
An ISEN is only valid, and can only be validated, when all "10 DIGITS" are displayed.

 

CO-PUBLICATION

A publication issued as a co—edition or joint imprint with another publisher can be
assigned an ISBN by each publisher. However, if only one publisher is the distrib-
utor, only that publisher shall assign the ISBN.

 

PUBLISHERS ACQUIRING ANOTHER COMPANY WITH "ISBN PREFIX"

The originally assigned ISBN must be used until the book is reprinted under the new
publisher's imprint. Promptly report to the ISBN Agency any name and address changes,
mergers, ceased publication, acquisitions, etc.

 

PUBLISHERS ACQUIRING COMPLETE STOCK OF ANOTHER COMPANY
Publisher must use the ISBN of the ORIGINAL PUBLISHER (if assigned), until the new
company reprint under their OWN IMPRINT.

 

ISBN LINKAGE _

If a book has been acquired from another publisher, has been reprinted and carries
the imprint of the NEW PUBLISHER and the new publisher' 5 ISBN, then the new publisher
must give the ISBN of the previous edition as well as his own, on the verso of the
title page. EXAMPLE:

 

ISBN 0—666-00123—5 (previously published by xy, ISBN O-8420-OO91~X§
or' ISBN 0-666-00123—5 (previously ISBN O—8420—009l-X)

DISTRIBUTORS
A distributor, even an exclusive distributor, must use the ISBN of the ORIGINAL PUBLISHE;
in all promotional materials. If U.S. Publisher does not have an ISBN Publisher Prefix,.
have the publisher contact the ISBN Agency.

 

 

When a foreign publisher is from a country that has not yet implemented the ISBN, the
distributor must contact the ISBN Agency for approval to assign his own number, until
the country comes into the ISBN system.

We wish to stress the importance of implementing the ISBN system and observing,
exactly, the standard rules. Any deviation, i. e., omitting the Count y Identifier
and ISBN Publisher Prefix, changing the ISBN for price changes, or dropping the
check digit, would make communication impossible between order fulfillment units.

INTERNATIONAL ISBN AGENCY

 




E5m>m 5on 00mm y2....>2. 0 $335.35.

\

.33. ﬂ, 33...... 1.4. 3.3.4
,. :..,., . :n...

‘;

i 01”)
you;

a.

a smal! g

figmeﬂl

)ie

 

. .. “yum“, *w-vuw-rr-
rz,‘ - .1
[he (

iing to the title output of

a\"\
my?) a Sim

~v‘*-"4'V"1),""'"'-‘-"“ﬂ“‘w:'-~‘1'.t-“,‘.« ‘ 1;,“ h, . ‘ L,“ _. _,,... '. “u... ‘ _. . .1‘.‘ . —_. x
‘y... _ ‘ ' . .. ---.~-x :

ﬁguwia'mﬁm .iinaé;¢i.. '.~ :-

 

 

iz' group identiﬁer is iazgzrr

e '3) to aiiow for n‘eei':s:'ii2 titie listings. - smaii mibiisiuzr has;
i!

 

 

 

 

C.

and thus h
'git is aiv

5
l

mm, M..- . .. J...
t

Ink. (

 

 

It?

 

{C
.I
I

umerous
[he (.

IO

 

 

 

.«u;ur~xrvnm, vwn. 2 n- .
- 31— mun. .9; 3-14; 4::

.....,.......—.m.-1¢.--.. m. m: wvzu-rv‘wm‘ 1hr was
.

a..- .M."V)---- mg."

 

38 4

ll

 

t/e numbcg‘ varies an

o

[I
pubiicarions are the most n

ubiications are fewer in number, thus

 

 

r. .

 

:
)1
-,)C am p!

1(

 

4.
4..» .. 7.}. 4...}, .u. .u .1: a! 32.5... 14.333".23.532435134ﬁwﬁim

...
.

I!

~- A Xerox Education Company

mericas

New Ymk, N.‘v’. 10036 (212) 764-3

I r“,
2

. r. .. . .u

u: u . . . .. .

A ; .6. .1 y p .7
1.. . ..

{ixi

\
1

 

.32 E“
L 9,.
.ka .
i‘vwwvx' vwm --
her pref:

r
a.

13-1.:
.. 1,:

""7213??th
is
ona! Standard Book Numbering Agency

 

.
1
1

.ing an "invalid number.

{Ghana Director

Dutch p

(3 p1,:biisimr has a smaii pie

. .
...i12.mw..1.31¢4:?.: a.

{a
use it does. nct have many thins to list.

«-
(

I

'V F

(I
(.
1

far, pub/
Engiish languagg‘.

cop

\
.v

.1.
U
(

The size of the group idem?-

and pubhﬁz

(LR. 80%:ka Company
1180 Avenue of the /

inn-3mm

E me

may»... €3.23}qu .u. (r ..

 

 

"-

a large prefix {example A has
«3

guards against ’1

 

 

 

 

cm'ipu ter a

 

concerned.

 

§&rrlniali u unifyilrvrpitﬁxltta“

,_..

 

 

 

 

 

 

f'

P

 

 

 

t

-‘ -’ '1'!««~%vmﬁva »

 

identifier (exampie 1 and 2).

(example- 3). A iarg

 

 

 

 

 

 

. .. df:

H.”

 

.u
. (III..LA|rvl....7-I:\t1r\r 44444 .tf3.‘

 

 

 

 

,h. .. . . .. 1.1.131. .3 :iw..11,,\4|.1...2l£z ‘19.;

 

 

(ﬂ.r>ﬂ3{‘u\q“,-f .71") , H.- 2. -

ID», I .b: 1., 5?...» .36:

 

 

 

u...‘ ..., ....1..3 itéihwﬁwc. @1155... ul!§.‘i\l. . . 1513“. ‘4.»
. a

- iii...

 

 




IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIZ
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIZI
IIIIIIIIIIIE‘III
II III I 0 II II
II " I II II
III.
‘I II

C

I
I
III--
III--

I
o
I
I
I
I

II
—-
II n . c.
II III" III
I-ES' I III
I... I I.-

 

THE FUND-RAISING INSTITUTE 3 Box 365 3 Ambler 3 Pa. 19002

William F. Balthaser
Editorial Director

M. Jane Williams
Research Director

Jacqueline Berset
Membership Director

0
FRI Advisory Board

Edward B. Ayres
Choate Alumni Director
Choate Rosemary Hall, Conn.

Berne Bachrach

Director, Deferred Gifts

The Mount Sinai Medical Center
New York City

Ralph E. Chamberlain
Director of Devel0pment
The Salvation Army
New York City

Robert V. Donahoe

Senior Vice President

United Way of Tri-State, Inc.
New York City

Raymond Gillingham

President Emeritus

Memorial & Children’s Medical
Center Foundation

Long Beach, Calif.

George T. Holloway

“ Executive Director

National Catholic Development
Conference, lnc.

Rockville Centre, N.Y.

Michael J. Kearney

Assistant Chancellor, University
Relations

University of California, Irvine

J. Thomas Kidd

Associate Director of Alumni
Relations

The Pennsylvania State
University

Henry V. Lione

National Director

Cystic Fibrosis Foundation
Rockville, Md.

Philip B. Menninger
Administrator for Development
The Menninger Foundation
Topeka, Kans.

David S. Thompson

Executive Secretary

Council for University Resources
Princeton University, N.J.

Richard P. Trenbeth
Development Consultant
Glenview, lll.

October 16, 1980

Ms. Christine Stevens
President

Animal Welfare Institute
P.O. Box 3650
Washington, DC 20007

Dear Ms. Stevens:

My thanks for your letter, and please let me say that I understand
your concerns. I'll explain the context in which your ad would
appear. ’

The book is extremely comprehensive, and long before the sections
on soliciting funds there is a section on building a constituency
from which funds can one day be solicited. We say there are

two ways: 1) finding new constituents through research; and 2)
"raising one's banner" and attracting previously unknown
constituents to it. Your ad Would appear as an example of such
banner raising. I've enclosed a photocopy of the manuscript

text that would refer to your ad. The ad itself would appear
immediately after this text, and then the book would go on to
other subjects. Jane Williams, the author, has rewritten this
text to include quotes from your letter, so much of what it

says is in your own words.

If I understand the thrust of your letter, this new text should
cover your concerns. I do hOpe you feel this is the case. If

so, Jane Williams and I very much hOpe you will be able to consider
granting FRI the requested permission to reprint your ad in the
new book on annual giving. You may do so just by signing my

letter of September 16th and returning it to me. We will not

need responses to the various questions posed by that letter.

But I do have one additional question: Should we note that the

ad is '© 1980, Animal Welfare Institute"?

We do very much want to show this specific ad in the new book,
especially because of the type of cause it represents.

 

 




 

 

lJ—abd don't forget your present donors; they can

be an excellent source of additional annual
giving prospects. Ask current donors to pass
along your solicitations to friends. Ask them
to refer prospects, sending you the person's

name and address. Or look up your preSent

donors in a street directory, searching for
clusters of donors, and then solicit everyone
living in that same area. The theory, of course,
is that people tend to live in homogeneous
neighborhoods composed mainly of people with

interests and resources similar to their own.

Now, let's see how one "raises one's banner"

and attracts prospective donors from out of the
blue. Here's how one organization does it --

an organization with a broad enough appeal to
justify buying this ad in a high-circulation
national magazine. The primary purpose of the ad,
of course, is to inform the public of the plight
of the whales and of how they can help save them.
But there is also an important constituency—building
spin-off. Many people are interested enough to
write for more information, as the ad invites, or

to send a contribution. Then, they become

constituents.

 




chober 2, 1980

.Mr. Baltheser
FundwRaising Institute
Bax 365

Ambler, PA 19002

Dear Mr. Balthaeer.

In response to your letter of September 16th, the ads we take

in the campaign te save the whales are to infcrm the public of
the plight of the whales and 0f how they can help save them.

The inceme aerived from denetione in response to the ads usually
falls far short of paying for them. I cauld not recommend them
as a fund raising device.- However, I think they have done a
great deal to raise public coneciouenees and to make progress
possible in reducing the numbers of whales killed.

Because I assume your back is geared to fund~reising I am
hesitant to have yen reproduce our ad unless you represent it
as a way to gggné funds at a generally far higher rate than
raising them.

If you are still intereeted, I am willing to discuss it further,
as I thiﬁk our ad campaign is very effective for the cause.

Sincerely,

Christine Stevens
President

 




 

 

 

THE FUND-RAISING INSTITUTE 3 Box 365 3 Ambler : Pa.

William F. Balthaser
Editorial Director

M. Jane Williams
Research Director

Jacqueline Berset
Membership Director

0
FRI Advisory Board

Edward B. Ayres
Choate Alumni Director
Choate Rosemary Hall, Conn.

Berne Bachrach

Director, Deferred Gifts

The Mount Sinai Medical Center
New York City

Ralph E. Chamberlain
Director of Development
The Salvation Army
New York City

Robert V. Donahoe

Senior Vice President

United Way of Tri-State, Inc.
New York City

Raymond Gillingham

President Emeritus

Memorial & Children’s Medical
Center Foundation

Long Beach, Calif.

George T. Holloway

Executive Director

National Catholic Development
Conference, lnc.

Rockville Centre, N.Y.

Michael J. Kearney

Assistant Chancellor, University
Relations

University of California, Irvine

J. Thomas Kidd

Associate Director of Alumni
Relations

The Pennsylvania State
University

Henry V. Lione

National Director

Cystic Fibrosis Foundation
Rockville, Md.

Philip B. Menninger
Administrator for Development
The Menninger Foundation
Topeka, Kans.

David S. Thompson

Executive Secretary

Council for University Resources
Princeton University, N.J.

Richard P. Trenbeth
Development Consultant
Glenview, lll.

September 16, 1980

Mrs. Christine Stevens
President

Animal Welfare Institute
Box 3650

Washington, DC 20007

Dear Mrs. Stevens:
Craig Van Note at Monitor suggested that I write to you.

First, please let me introduce myself and my organization.
Fund—Raising Institute, founded in 1962, researches fund-raising
techniques used by nonprofit organizations and reports on its
findings in its own publications: a periodical and a library of
professional books. One of the books is about annual giving,

and it is currently being remade as a new edition. The author
is M. Jane Williams, assistant dean of the Faculty of Arts and
Sciences at the University of Pennsylvania. And I am the editor.

Now, why am I writing to you? I've suggested to Ms. Williams
that the book's section on identifying new prospects be made
stronger, and that she include information on advertising for
new prospects. We have a copy of your Time magazine ad —-
headlined "Save the wales!" —- that appeared on July 7, 1980,
page 52, European edition. Through this letter, I would like
to ask for your organization's permission to reproduce that ad
in Ms. William's new book. If you wish, you may grant that
permission simply by signing this letter in the space provided
and returning it to me.

 

Mr. Van Note said he had the impression this series of ads has
been running for about six or seven years and that it has produced
many, many inquiries from people who might logically be considered
potential donors to AWI. And it has produced direct donations,
too. Could you provide any statistics on about how many

inquiries and how many donations? That would be very useful to
have for our caption.

 




Mrs. Christine Stevens, September 16, 1980 -- Page 2

In addition, Mr. Van Note provided the following information:
1) the ad space was purchased at Time's charitable rate, which
is lower than the regular rate; 2) it was prepared by the
Monitor consortium for AMI; and 3) it was prepared in five
versions, one each for five different sections of the world.
If you would like to add anything, I certainly invite you to
do so.

I do very much hope we will be able to feature the AWI ad in
Ms. Williams' new book, and I look forward to your reply.

Sincerely,

W
“Man-u «va on“

I, l».
.1 ‘ “' 9‘
_,

I'
,I
a... _
raining“
,.

.. m
' ‘ " ' ., .: '
ﬁn! . ‘ ‘ Hi .

William F. Balthaser

THE PERMISSION REQUESTED ABOVE IS GRANTED:

SIGNED:

 

 

for The Animal Welfare Institute

Encl: extra copy of this letter, BRE

 




 

IIIII II""‘II
I

=I lg.| ! .'.I ll
-

3: ii '3:
II

II!!-
L

 

 

THE FUND-RAISING INSTITUTE 3 Box 365 3 Ambler 3 Pa. 19002

William F. Balthaser
Editorial Director.

M. Jane Williams
Research Director

Jacqueline Berset .
Membership Director

1 o
F Rl Advisory Board

Edward B. Ayres
ChoateAlumni Director
Choate Rosemary Hall, Conn.

Beme Bachrach
Director Deferred Gifts

The Mount Sinai Medical Center ,

New York City

1 Ralph E..Chambe'rlein
Director of Development
The Salvation Army
New York City

. Robert V. Donahue

Senior Vice President
United Way of TrivStete, lnc.
New York City

Raymond Gillin'gham
President Emeritus

- Memorial & Children' 3 Medical
Center Foundation

‘ Long Beach, Calif.

‘ George T. Holloway
Executive Director
National Catholic Development
_ Conference, Inc.
Rockville Centre, N.Y.

Michael J. Kearney

Assistant Chancellor, University
Relations

University of California, Irvine

J. Thomas Kidd

Associate Director of Alumni
Relations

The Pennsylvania State
University

Henry V. Lione

National Director

Cystic Fibrosis Foundation
Rockville, Md.

Philip B. Menninger
Administrator for Development
The Monninger Foundation
Topeka, Kans.

David S. Thompson

Executive SeCIetary

Council for University Resources
Princeton University, N.J.

Richard P. Trenbeth
Development Consultant
Glenview, lll.

September 16, 1980

Mrs. Christine Stevens
President

Animal Welfare Institute
Box 3650

Washington, DC 20007

Dear Mrs. Stevens:
Craig Van Note at Monitor suggested that I write to you.

First, please let me introduce myself and my organization.1
Fund—Raising Institute, founded in 1962, researches fUnd-raising
techniques used by nonprofit organizations and reports on its
findings in its own publications: a periodical and a library oft
professional books. One of the books is about annual giving,’
and it is currently being remade as a new edition. The authOr
is M. Jane Williams, assistant dean of the Faculty of Arts and
Sciences at the University of Pennsylvania. And I am the editor.

Now, why am I writing to you? I've suggested to Ms. Williams
that the book's section on identifying new prospects be made
stronger,.and that she include information on adVertising for
new prospects. We have a copy of your Time magazine ad -—
headlined "Save the Wales'" —— that appeared on July 7, 1980,
page 52, European edition. Through this letter, I would like
to ask for your organiZation's permission to reproduce that ad
in Ms. William's new book. If you wish, you may grant that
permission simply by signing this letter in the space provided
and returning it to me.

Mr. Van Note said he had the impression this series of ads has
been running for about six or seven years and that it has produced
many, many inquiries from people who might logically be considered
potential donors to AWI. And it has produced direct donations,~
too. Could you provide any statistics on about how many

inquiries and how many donations? That would be very useful to
have for our caption.

 




 

 

Mrs. Christine Stevens, September 16, 1980 —— Page 2,

In addition, Mr. Van Note provided the following information:
1) the ad space was purchased at Time's charitable rate, which
is lower than the regular rate; 2) it was prepared by the
'Monitor consortium for AWI; and 3) it was prepared in five
versions, one each for five different sections of the world.
If you would like to add anything, I certainly invite you to
do so. ‘

I do very much hope we will be able to feature the AWI ad in
Ms. Williams' new book, and I look forward to your reply;

Sincerely,

 

 

William F. Balthaser

THE PERMISSION REQUESTED ABOVE IS GRANTED:

SIGNED:

 

 

for The Animal Welfare Institute

Encl: extra copy of this letter, BRE

 




O

' "ATTN: W.F . BALTHASER

 

BUSINESS REPLY MAIL

FIRST CLASS PERMIT NO. 126 AMBLER, PA

 

 

POSTAGE WILL BE PAID BY ADDRESSEE

FUND-RAISING INSTITUTE
BOX 365
AMBLER, PA 19002

 

NO POSTAGE
NECESSARY
IF MAILED
IN THE
UNITED STATES

 

 

 

 




movambar 1?; 19@0

Lilian Trewbriége
1930 Galf Shores Baulevazﬂ ﬁarth
Eagles, FL 33%93

Daar Lilian.
Thank yen $0 much fur yaur latter 9% $E§t&mhax lﬁth anﬁ

the lovely caiumn yau wanna fax ”ﬁeayolitan ﬁagazinﬁ“, Tha
quotes you ChOﬁa £33m Mantaignea Huﬁsmn ané‘Wegﬁ ara sugerﬁi

Ccngratulatimng an a very effectivgiy writtan calumno

The Animal Walfare Eastituﬁa ﬂeas gaggly eﬂucational mataxi&l$
free to teacherg anﬁ librarians, 3m there is n3 neeﬁ far yam ta
be concerned: yea ﬁﬁiﬁ it jmﬁt right im the géece. Thankﬁ fax
mentioning bath th@ Saciety far knimﬁl §rat$ctive Legialatimn
and the Animal Welfare Institutﬂn Thank$ agaim far yaux Suypmrt
and helpo

gimmexely:

Chrigtina Stevens
Presiéanﬁ

 




Caymmm mwmuoﬁnm £0162
AKOZ Wamkwoﬁﬁom 0.54m .250 Omoﬁ

amTLiLLvaM TﬁqBPWH

 




 

5 H
.I

'commen

WaMJ-«J‘ﬁ‘.

Are humans humane?

 

PEOPLE ARE
ANIMALS’
ONLY LOBBY

eople who work for animals get used
Pto sneers and jeers and even moral

disapproval. We are accused of
being sentimental visionaries, against med-
ical research, against hunting and fishing,
even anti-children, as a friend of mine once
implied. (When I asked if she’d help write
some letters to Congress about the slaugh-
ter of porpoises, my friend replied: ”Well,
I’ve got a book I want to finish; and any-
way I think children are more important
than animals”) None of those accusations
are true; we know that many laboratory
experiments are essential, that hunting and
fishing may be useful and fun, and—speak-
ing for myself, at least—l care very much
indeed for children. So why do I choose
this cause instead of working for peace or
justice or child welfare—or relaxing with
a good book?

I think the answer for most of us is the
conviction that cruelty is the worst failing
of our human nature, ”the very extreme
of all vices,” according to Montaigne; that
it is also the root of other evils, a cancer of
our spirit, as Rebecca West called it, whose
practice in any form spreads like a disease
in the individual and group; and that the
best—the only—hope for achieving a sane
society is to eradicate the malady wherever
possible, whether by laws or education or
example. St. Francis understood that, and
the lamp he lit in the darkness 800 years
ago has flickered but never gone out—yet.

Some progress has been made in curbing
man’s cruelty to man (though not as much
as we complacently believed, now that
terrorism and torture are spreading every-
where today) but very little progress in
controlling our cruelty to animals. It took
years and thousands of letters—which both
Congress and President Eisenhower said
were the decisive factor—to get our law
passed for the humane slaughter of food
animals (90 years after Britain’s) and a long
hard struggle to get the porpoises at least
partially protected. But there remain, for
example, the appalling conditions in which
animals are imported and shipped for
commerce and research (nearly half of
them die from exposure or thirst or over-
crowding); there are still great abuses in

By LILIAN TROWBRIDGE

the treatment of animals in research and
in the flourishing racket of dognapping for
sale to laboratories; and there is the wide-
spread use of steel-jaw, leg-hold traps to
catch fur-bearing animals here in the East
and coyotes in the West. These traps are
incredibly cruel and slowly kill or maim
their victims, including many cattle and
household pets which stray into them—as
even some small children have done-

Forty-eight countries have banned the
steel-jaw leg-hold trap, 19 of them in
Africa. Clearly, the United States is capable
of doing the same. Now a second attempt
to outlaw the traps in the US. has been
introduced in the House (HR 1297), but
unless it has strong support from the public
it may be defeated, as its predecessor was,
by the powerful lobbies of the trappers and
furriers; of the big trap company, Wood-
stream; and of the AFL-CIO Butcher Work-
men’s Union (why this group, it is hard to
understand).

So, we still accept or ignore or ration-
alize many flagrant abuses; and unless they
can be stopped the ”disease” will persist
and break out in other forms. Montaigne
was sure of that: ”Those natures that are
sanguinary toward beasts discover a natural
propensity to cruelty. After they had ac-
customed themselves at Rome to spectacles
of the slaughter of animals, they proceeded
to those of the slaughter‘of men, to the

gl'adiatOrs.” He cited gladiators; we can cite
' children. It has been amply demonstrated

”The hurricane advisory said that if a
tree is half as tall as it is wide, to cut it
in half. ”

 

 

 

NEAPOLITAN

O ’l

that’people who are cruel or callous to
animals will also mistreat children when
they get the chance. Henry Bergh knew
that when he founded both American
Societies for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Children and to Animals, the first of their
kind in this country and mutually neces-
sary. Children are now protected, at least
legally, though still far too often the victims
of brutal individuals, including their own
parents. But animals—which are exemplary
parents, by the way—are only just begin-
ning to be protected by laws in America.
Great Britain, France, and so many other
nations have been far ahead of us in that. .
And it is notable that those same countries
have far less child abuse than we do, for
a climate of compassion spreads like a
balm to all fields.

That is the why of work for animals. As
to the how, we readers of Neapolitan can
support our fine local Humane Society,
and we all try to stop acts of cruelty when
we see them. But we can also have a wider
influence by working for legislation to
abolish the dreadful practices still prevalent
in our supposedly civilized country. We
can do it by writing. to Congress, which is
slow and discouraging work—and extreme—
ly boring—but is does eventually get results.
As W. H. Hudson wrote in 1890: ”We
have to remember that no form of cruelty
inflicted, whether for sport or profit or from
some other motive, on the lower animals,
has ever died out by itself in the land. Its
end has invariably been brought about by
legislation through the devotion of those
who were the ’cranks,’ the ’faddists,’ the
’sentimentalists’ of their day, who were
jeered and laughed at by their fellows, and
who only succeeded by sheer tenacity and
force of character after long fighting against
public opinion and a reluctant Parliament
in finally getting their law.” .

The only lobby the animals have is us.
For their sakes, and our own, we can end
traps and other needless tortures by speak-
ing up and, above all, by writing to Wash-
ington. If enough of us will take the little
time and trouble to do it, Congress will act,
at last.

Subcommittee hearings on the trap bill,
HR 1297, are scheduled shortly; letters
to Rep. James Florio, Chairman, and to our
Rep. Skip Bafalis, both at House Office
Building, Washington, DC. 20510, urging.
theirvsupport, will be of the greatest help.

(Readers who want information about this
and other bills can get it from the Society
for Animal Protective Legislation, Box 3719,
Georgetown Sta, Washington, DC. 20007.
Humane educational material, free to
teachers and libraries, is available from the
Animal Welfare Institute, Box 3650, Wash-
ington, 20007. Both are non-profit organi-
zations whose small, mostly volunteer but
efficient and dedicated staffs are leaders in
this field.)

 

A regular contributor to Neapolitan’s Review.
column, former magazine editor LIL/AN TROW—
BRIDGE has long been active in organizations
which promote the humane treatment of animals.

FALL 1980

 

 




date

to CS time

 

 

 

while you were out . .

m For Gm,

CO.
‘ area c number extension
F_——r/””’9de’
/ telephoned

please call

will call again
returned your call
urgent

 

 

 

 

I, a led towee you
. wants to see ‘you

essage (AM/U mam. LA In

 

 

 

(64-7204)

 




 

4
J l. k

A Guide to New and Established 0 Private and Special Interest

0
III.IISIIers Avant-Garde and Alternative 0 Organizational and Association 0 Government and Institution Presses

ilirectun'

 

Gale Research Company
150E. 508t. New York, NY10022 Phone(212)751.3033

 

 

 

Dear Publisher:

This is a request for information to update your entry for the new, third
edition of BOOK PUBLISHERS DIRECTORY, now in preparation.

Since librarians, booksellers, and others use this directory for guidance

in placing orders, it is important that your listing be both accurate and
up—to—date.

For your guidance, I am enclosing a copy of your entry in
the previous edition attached to a yellow Revision Form.

Please cross out any incorrect information on your old entry . . . and
enter the corrections on the appropriate lines of the form. Then mail
back the yellow Revision Form, complete with the old entry.

Do not hesitate to expand your entry by filling in any data missing in
the earlier edition of BOOK PUBLISHERS DIRECTORY.

Your correct address . . . phone number . . . discount schedules
description of your publications . . . and names of people in charge are
all important to those who will contact you as a result of this listing.
BOOK PUBLISHERS DIRECTORY is your link to thousands of book buyers and
information seekers.

Please be sure to mail back the Revision Form and old entry this week.
I am enclosing a return envelope for your convenience. Thank you.

Sincerely,

(iv H U(

Linda Hubbard
Editor, BOOK PUBLISHERS DIRECTORY

. There is no charge or obligation of any kind for being listed
in this Directory. Nor will anyone contact you now or later
to try to sell you an ad. The entire cost of publication is
borne by the people who buy the Directory for use as a reference
tool.

 




\ -

trust 9 1980 #

 

Revision form for your entry DEADLINE
in the 3rd edition—1981

~ o ‘ | ‘ A Guide to New and Established 0 Private and Special Interest
ll .IIhIILI’k‘ Avant-Garde and Alternative 0 Organizational and Association 0 Government and Institution Presses

 

(Ill’ele'Y Gale Research Company

150 E. 50 St. New York, NY 10022 Phone (212)751-3033

 

 

PLEASE DOUBLE-CHECK ~ - 213 -

Zip is correct as listed.
2i should be ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

Phone is correct as listed, . PO. Box 3650 Phone: (202) 337-2332 ,
Phone number should be ' ‘ Washington, DC 20007 Founded: 1951
' Area Number Ext - I OFFICIALS & MANAGERS: Christine Stevens, President;
' . Cynthia Wilson, Vice President; Marjorie Cooke, Secre-
; ‘ tary; Roger L. Stevens, Treasurer.
; NO. OF TITLES: 1973 - 1; 1976 - 2. ‘
YOUR EMRY . DESCRIPTION: Publishes humane educational materials
AS '1' APPﬁARED " and distributes particular manuals to teachers and librar-

I ECO D ' ‘ ies, free of charge. Also, special manuals for veterinar-
N WE S N ians, scientists and those working with laboratory am-

ED‘T‘ON OF LPD. ‘1 mals.

 

 

SUBJECTS: Humane educational materials for animal
welfare.

RETURNS POLICY: Returns accepted.

SELECTED TITLES: First Aid And Care Of Small Ani—
mals by Ernest P. Walker; Animal Expressions; Animals
And Their Legal Rights by Emily Leavitt et al; The Sta-
tus OfAnimaIs In The Christian Religion by Major C. W.
Hume; The Principles 0f Humane Experimental Tech-
nique by W. M. S. Russell and R. L. Burch.

MAGAZINES, JOURNALS OR SERIALS: “Information
Report,” a quarterly newsletter.

 

 

PLEASE DRAW A LINE THROUGH ANY INFORMATION THAT IS INCORRECT OR OUT OF DATE AND INDICATE CORRECTIONS.
Your entry should include all the following information (as applicable). If any is missing, please fill in the appropriate spaces below.

rn

Year Founded ISBN CIP Participation [I Yes Li

 

Principal Officials and Managers

 

Title

 

Name Title Name Title

Name Title ' Name i
No. of Titles 4% A7 ?7 L 1980 / 1981 (est.) 3 f5): \
Mﬂ’v f Mesa/J

Please indicate Special Subject(s) if any: e.g., Religion, Occult, Data Processing

 

 

Subjects

Discounts

 

Bookstores Libraries Other

 

Returns Policy

 

Address for Returns

 

Imprints, Divisions, Subsidiaries

 

 

Mergers and/orAmalgamations

 

Titlesof Publications _ _ -. .. . . - - - -. -. .. ... 4...
Please List upto Six Representative Titles Author

Facts About Furs by Greta Nilsson and others
Title Author

Physical and Mental Suffering of Experimental Animals by Jeff Diner

[I . Q .5 Title M Mﬁor

Title / // " ‘A’uthor

 

Title Author

 

Title Author
preparedby Linda Tyrrell Title Administrative Asst. Date_;9/13/30

9 Animal Welfare Institute

39.0. Box 3650 0 C] Defunct
200

Washington, DC 7 Merged. with

 

\

 




 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

 

 

P.O.‘ Box 3650 Washington, DC. 20001: »

PRESS RELEASE 25 JULY 1980

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
a

 

THE COLD HARPOON ——
"Morally Indefensible by Any Standards”

Brighton -— The International Whaling Commission (IWC) is today
considering a proposal to prohibit the use of the non—explosive
"cold" harpoon on all whales. The whaling nations are resisting
this extremely inhumane method of killing.

More than 10,000 minke whales will die this year by the
cold harpoon. Instead of killing whales relatively quickly
with an explosive grenade at the tip of the harpoon, the
whalers of Japan, the Soviet Union, Norway, Iceland, Brazil,
South Korea and Spain fire harpoons that merely penetrate the .
whales, gouging a large wound that eventually causes the whales
to die by haemorrhaging. Death often takes an hour or more.

The Spanish.and South Korean whalers even use the cold harpoon
on the giant fin and sperm whales.

The whalers justify this cruel method with the excuse
that an explosive harpoon ”would destroy too much meat” on the
small minke whales. They claim they don't have the proper

.grenades developed to kill minke whales.

Spain displayed extraordinary insensitivity today when it
refused to support even a ban on cold harpoons for the largest
of whales. The explosive harpoon —— used by all other whaling
nations on the large whales —— "is something new that we are
not used to,” said the Spanish commissioner. (The explosive
harpoon was invented in 1840.)

Spain hunts down hundreds of fin whales —— the second
largest of whale species, reaching 80 feet and 100 tons.

The Spanish commissioner justified the cold harpoon because
”fin whales are used mostly for human consumption” and "we do
not want to lose an important part of the meat. In a way it is
senseless if we lose part of the whale we are killing."

A crew member aboard one of the Spanish whaling ships
(owned by Masso Hermanos) reports how the fin whales are hunted:
"Explosive harpoons are not used as these are maintained to
damage the meat. Once a whale is harpooned, the boat is
stopped and the whale is allowed to pull the boat for one or
two miles until it tires, when it is harpooned again. Then the
whale is inflated to burst it inside and also to keep it afloat.”

(CONTINUED)

 




The Australian commissioner sharply criticized the cruelty
of the cold harpoon in a statement today; ”I do not believe
that because we are government officials we can closegour eyes
to what is happening.

”With greater emphasis on harvesting minke whales, the
Commission has unintentionally increaSed the inhumanity of its
overall operations. Australia regards this as morally unacceptable
and as not being in accord with the wishes expressed by all
“commissioners to reduce any cruelty involved in whaling."

He continued: ”The swing towards greater use of the cold
harpoon means that on average whales taken-under the aegis of
the International Whaling Commission are now taking longer to
'die and are in greater.pain than has been the case in past.
The justification for the wanton disregard of the nOrmally
-accepted animal rights is that there is less damage to that
portion of the animal taken by man.

”It is wrong that an industry, so subject to public
scrutiny as whaling, could sit by while realising that the
method of killing used is not even the most humane currently
available. The position of the International Whaling Commission
is morally indefensible by any standards./

”It is the firm opinion of my government that the infliction
of any unavoidable pain is completely unacceptable in any
circumstances,” stated the Australian.

”Perhaps because whales are killed far from land and not
under the public eye, or possibly because humans do not hear
the cries of dying whales, laws and methods used in the killing
of whales need to be improved greatly.

”Information provided last year by a working group of the
Technical Committee made it clear that with respect to whaling,
death is rarely instantaneous and some whales suffer terrible
injuries sometimes for a considerable period of time. Last
year the Commission recommended the prohibition of the use
of the cold grenades to kill whales larger than minke whales,”
concluded the Australian commissioner.

 




"~‘; i.;\,9:2 m i
;L\L.H’.”1LLL\: 1L J;
”l 22;, 54‘ NY” +2 A!”
inch mini. um. lt.,.al~i:~.t} 5», ‘

K

~4’,v\I-',
.' I: .‘14-

«“9212‘31

in

By JUDY HUGHES

The Geraldine R. Dodge Foundation
in Morristown has awarded nearly $2.4
million in grants to 78 projects since the
establishment of the fund in 1974, foun»
dation officials said yesterda .

According to Scott MC lay, execu-
tive director of the foundation, “grants
undertaken during the year ending Dec.
31, 1977, as well as two earlier grants
approved in 1075 and six in December
1976, totaled $2,381,904.” Last year 70
grants totaling $1,605,854, were funded
McVay said.

Since the foundation was establish-
ed a year after the death of Mrs. Dodge,

the pattern of giving has “focused on.

projects in New Jersey,” with the excep-
tion of animal welfare and secondary
education, McVay said.

bi: at: =1:

Grants in the arts to New Jersey
included, Artists for Environment Foun-
dation, Columbia, $20,000; George Street
Playhouse, New Brunswick, $20,000;
McCarter Theatre Compan , Princeton,
$45,500; New Jersey Symp ony Orches-
tra, $30,000 and the Newark Community
Center of the Arts, $15,000.

Secondary education grants in the
state were Peters Valley Craftsmen,
Layton, $7,000; Whole Theatre Compa-
ny, Montclair, $20,000; Dwight-Bugle-
wood School, Englewood, $30,000; Law-
renceville School, $36,400; Saint Peter’s
College, Jersey City, $15,331 and the
State Department of Education, $100,000.

. .41...

“Critical 5:222:25” grants went to
Woodrow lit-:3. National Fellowship
Foundation, cit-u: :rion, $00,150; Confer-
ence of New Planned Parenthood
Affiliates, Pierre.«rift, $25,000 and the
New Jersey Consesvation Foundation,
Morristown, $50,000.

Grants in the field. of public interest
were awarded to the Association for Ad"
Vancement oi the Mentally Handicap-
ped, Princeton. $28,000; the Center for
Analysis of Public issues Princeton,
$41,800; Hackensacls Meadowlands
Development Commission, $75,000; New
arlr Public Radio, $75,000 and. Trust for
Public Land, Newark, $25,000.

‘ Morris (Ziounty projects receiving
funds included, the Boy Scouts of Ameri-
ca, Morrisaiiussea Council, $10,000; the
Borough of Madison, $51,000; Hartley 7
Dodge Foundation, Madison, $25,000:
Madison Area YMCA, $35,000; Morris~
town Memorial Hospital, $06,575; Morris
Museum of Arts and Sciences, Morris» ,2
town, $250,000 and the Voluntary Action :
Center of Morris County, li/Iorristown,
$8,000.

Other grants were awarded to the 5
Animal Welfare Institute, Washington, 5
DC, $12,410; the Humane Societ of the
United States, Washington, D. ., $10;
516; Metropolitan Pittsburgh Public
Broadcasting, $12,570 and the University
of Pennsylvania, Veterinary Medicine,
$50,000.

The foundation also made 25 grants

t$5,000 or less tor a total of $47,500.

 




 

 

LIFE/STYLE

 

 

Bernard Gotfryd—Newsweek

Parrot Jungle ’s Kates with macaws: Renting out birds for TV commercials and party décor

 

FEA THERED FRIENDS

The style of Nancy Conway’s Los Angeles
home is English manor, but the ambiance is
strictly for the birds. Cockatiels and love-
birds roost in a spare bathroom. A brightly
colored sun conure nests in the master
bedroom. Two milky-white cockatoos frolic
in the breakfast nook while Clyde, a yellow-
naped Amazon parrot who
sings opera, perches in a
house plant in the living
room. “They’re so beauti-
ful,”- says Conway. “They
entertain you, they lift you
out of bad moods, and you
never have to walk them.”

Americans, it seems, have
gone cuckoo over birds.
“The No. 1 pet in America is '
still the tropical ﬁsh—but
we’re closing in on them,”
boasts Frank Zamrock, a
Los Angeles bird importer.
An estimated 20 million
people now breed birds, and
40 million own at least one.
Canaries and parakeets are
still best sellers, but there is

 

Toucan: A pet with panache

charm school, the Parritz Hotel and Spa
and a pet store so popular it charges a $2
fee just to look at the birds. In New York,
Steven Kates of Parrot Jungle rents birds
for television commercials and as party
décor. One proud father rented two dozen
specimens to liven up the jungle display for
his son’s bar mitzvah. There
are now two magazines for
bird lovers, 150 small clubs,
and a national organiza-
tion, the American Socie—
ty of Aviculturists, which
counts 20,000 members.
SIDEKICK: The current fash-
ion for exotic birds may
have been inspired by Fred,
the sulfur-crested cockatoo
who posed as the sidekick to
Baretta, the TV detective.
Urban animal lovers have
also discovered that birds
make excellent house pets,
especially in apartments
and condominiums. They
are easier to care for than
dogs and less ﬁnicky than

Bruce Coleman, Inc.

 

an increasing demand for cockatoos, tou-
cans, Technicolor macaws and other exotic
species. Dealers report that the conversa-
tional Amazon and African gray parrots,
which sold for $300 to $400 in 1974, today
fetch as much as $800, and a pair of mated
cockatoos can sell for $12,000.

Catering to the birds has also become
big business. Parrotdise, a bird emporium
in Los Angeles, includes a beauty salon, a

JULY 16, 1979

\

 

cats. “Three years ago, it was retired peOple
who were raising birds,” observes Kath—
lynn Lyon, editor of the new magazine Bird
World. “Now young couples who are de-
laying having kids are raising them too.”
Ruth F iger, 49, an executive secretary from
Palm Desert, Calif, owns a double yellow-
headed Amazon parrot named Lorenzo,
who trails after her like a puppy. “I talk to
him like he’s a person,” she admits. “Some-

 

times, I think I’m losing my marbles, but he
talks back.”

The soaring bird. trade has also rufﬂed
some feathers. Conservationists object to
the removal of birds from the wilds and to
the suffering that birds undergo during
transport. Estimates of their mortality rate
from capture to customer run as high as 80
per cent. “There are absolutely no pluses
to the fad,” states John Gleiber, of the
Animal Welfare Institute in Washington.
“The whole thing is obviously inhumane.”

ILLEGAL TRAFFIC: The demand for cheaper
or rarer birds has also increased smug-
gling. David Kleinz, a special agent with
the US. Fish and Wildlife Service in
Houston, estimates that the illegal traﬂic
in birds is at least equal to the 350,000 that
are legally imported each year. “It’s more
proﬁtable than pot,” admits one ex-smug—
gler who transported thousands of parrots
from Mexico into Texas over a three-year
period.

There is also a thriving black market in
stolen birds. An African gray parrot valued
at $1,000 was recently stolen in suburban
Arcadia, Calif, and a $3,500 cockatoo
named Cookie was kidnapped from her
Orange County home. But even if the cul-
prits are caught, the penalties are usually
light. Burglarized dealers and owners have
a diﬂicult time identifying the birds as their
own, and most judges go easy on birdnap-
pers because, after all, it’s only birds.

For all these drawbacks, the fad for
feathered friends shows no sign of letting
up even as prices soar. “You pay for hugs
and kisses,” explains Parrotdise’s John In-
graham as he nuzzles a cockatoo. Appar-
ently, Americans have decided that a bird
in the home is worth even more than two in
the bush.

DIANE WEATHERS with
JANET HUCK in Los Angeles and bureau reports

 

Conway, family: A boarder in every room

Lester Sloan—Newsweek

 




lﬁﬁiﬂﬂfﬂﬂﬁﬁﬁﬁﬂlﬂﬁﬁﬁﬁfﬁ
295 Washington chnue

Brooklyn, Rew'Yorh 11205
2n2¢xnp2944

23 July 1979

Ms. Christine Stevens
Animal Welfare Institute
P.0. Box 3650
Washington, D.C. 20007

Dear Ms. Stevens:

Early in 1980 Travel & Leisure magazine, a monthly published
by the American Express Corporation, with a circulation of
800,000, most of these cardholders, will publish a special
wilderness issue. In this regard, I have been assigned to
write an article entitled "A Sampler of Conservation Groups
and How to Join."

 

I would very much like to include your group in the dozen or
so profiles to be featured. (Final editing decisions, will,
of course, rest with the publisher.) In order to both
facilitate and document my research, as well as give you an
opportunity to indicate specific projects or goals you would
like mentioned in your descriptive paragraph, might I request
that you kindly complete the enclosed questionnaire. Or, if
it's more convenient, feel free to draw my attention to given
portions of your brochure or annual report-~which I'd also
ask that you forward. If I do not hear from you by 15
September I will assume you do not wish your organization to
be included in the article. *

Please accept, in advance, my thanks for your prompt attention
and all good wishes.
Sincerely yours,

1"" .. . '
l I‘ ‘- ' I" V .'
I' - {I If 1“. \' ’
\ J 7 W _. w, "a. /
J

Lynda G. Barber

Enclosure

 




The American Society for the f” ;
Prevention of Cruelty *0 Animals ['9' /

.uv

(ASPCA) is celebrating its >

hundred and fourth anniversary Kw/ﬂ‘N’Jﬁ/

.
// /“14v5 .-’,r'

this month. You may want to *v‘

observe the date by joining the
ASPCA. Annual membership dues
are $10, which entitle you to a
quarterly newsletter keeping you
abreast of news affecting animals
today. (For more info, write the
ASPCA, 441 E. 92nd St., New
York 10028.) Or join one of the
nonprofit organizations below in
their struggle to protect wildlife:
Wildlife Management Institute
(WMl), 709 Wire Building, 1000
Vermont Ave. NW, Washington,
DC. 20005. WMl is concerned
with the restoration, improved
management, and intelligent use
of our renewable resources.
Student membership is $5 a year.
For this, you receive the Outdoor
News Bulletin twice a month, pe-
riodic brochures, news releases.
Animal Welfare Institute, Box
3650, Washington,,D.C. 20007.

Dedicated to all aspects of animal
welfare, the Institute focuses on
such issues as the humane treat-
ment of lab animals and the cur-
tailment of cruel trapping. Mem-
bers pay $5 a year and are sent

a quarterly information report. The
institute also distributes instruc—
tion sheets for members actively
interested in the fight to save
endangered species.

The Fund for Animals, Inc., 140
West 57th St., New York 10019.
The Fund is primarily interested
in the prevention of cruelty to

animals. Suggested student mem- I

bership is $5 a year. Members
receive periodic bulletins, are
encouraged to get involved in
projects in their area, and are
kept informed of important legis-

—« sew/"\ww/ /.

lation that affects animals.
Society for the Preservation of
Birds of Prey (SPBP), Box 891,
Pacific Palisades, Calif. 90272.
The SPBP ”defends the right of
birds of prey to live wild and free,
undisturbed by man and his pol-
lutants,” according to President
J. Richard Hilton. The member-
ship fee is $6 for two years, which
entitles you to an SPBP decal,
a detailed newsletter three times
ayear, and a wide assortment of
other literature. A color postcard
of the California condor is avail-
able on request; include a self—
addressed and stamped envelope.
All of the organizations de-
scribed above provide educational
and other materials if you ask for
them. -Harriet Webster

 




MAY ‘2 9 are

'— .._...-_ _-—_..__._ .W._

Pet Turtles
t. n e :5 Ct:
Trade ills

WASHINGTON (AP) —~
Those cute little pet turtles
may be hazardous to your
health. And you may be to
theirs as well.

So the Food and Drug Ad—
ministration is taking steps to
either ban or rigidly curtail
tirtle sales and shipments
throughout the country.

The agency detailed both al—
ternatives in the Federal Reg-
ister Tuesday and asked for
public comments by July 29.

According to recent esti—
mates, pet turtles annually
transmit salmonella poisoning
to about 280000 Americans.
mostly young children. The
illness is marked by abdomin-
al pain. nausea. fever and
diarrhea but rarely is fatal.

Consumers Union petitioned
for a total turtle ban last De-
cember in the interest of pub—
lic health charging that the
FDA's 1972 attempt at con~
trolling the pinblem had been
“dramatic and demonstra—
ble” failure.

The Humane Society of the
United States and the Animal
Welfare institute joined in the
move pleading the cause of
humanity to turtles

They said that most turtles
sold in pet stores are not, mini-
atures but rather baby red~
eared sliders, which “under
proper care” could live 40
years in captivity but which
generally die within four to
six months.

It was noted that. a 12-month
survey last year by the U.S.
Center for Disease Control
found 54 per cent of all sup-
posedly disease~free turtles to
be carrying salmonella some»
time after certification.

 

‘/

 




MILFORD, PAE: ,f;
DISPATCH “I,
W, 3,100 r

MAY 2 2 1980 W

 

 

***

A new study of the fur trade, .
Facts About Furs, was publish-
ed this week by-the Animal
Welfare Institute. It is based on
four years of research'by the
staff of AWI and is the first
comprehensive report on fur
-from wild animal to fur coat
-examining the animals trapped
worldwide, the traps used, trap-
ping and endangered species
legislation, and retail sales and
exports. Contact ASI, Box ,
3650, Washington, DC. 20007;

 




date

 

time

 

 

w/u'le you were on! ~ . .

ml@m MMMV‘ ” l
ZUll> WOMW‘ ' .' \KQS/

‘ tel. gUl/UC ell/M {365 Cﬂﬁolm

/ .
2 telephoned

please call 0V: {A} WlOll WNW

will call again

returned your call WOQQZl/W \

j urgent
B called to see you
‘ wants to see you
”mmMurannmwom
{A Ummu/llal 6mm {and Mung
llSlCl WQd WC Mr Elton ﬁll
m] 5” ml 0 d I a/lL/l 0/1244 M, l/Wd/w/l

by .. ?
on (My (“ﬂew/rd A/lrmq l. afﬁx/l M 0M

 

 

 

 

 




in
SCIENCE SERVICE _INCORPORATED E] 1719 N STREET. N. w. 1:] WASHINGTON. o. C. 20036 n ews

April 2, 1980

To whomever: , . . (34V14CL, ‘ 96/éé2/<§727

Please forgive the impersonall~r of this form letter; tiae is not
on my side. '

I am writing two articles on science yub'ic interest grougs and need
your help. One of the articles is for the HASW.(National Association of
Science Writers) Newsletter, the other for an informational booklet for
journalists. (Neither article is associated with.Science News.)

 

 

Please fill art the enclosed questionnaire as frank y and as thor-
oughly as possible and return it to me (via he enclosed self~addreseed
envelope) by (N nray} ipril 21. By doing so, not Oily v ﬁle you he
Héding to my pool of 'nformation5 but you also weuid ne r,vi;g advon~
tege of an orportnrity to Coununicnte to hundreds of scfgz- writers.

Feel frre to elah rate any arnwer with aneo'
fic exerglns, etc.

If any cuestion is unclear, do not h sitate to call me (20?

I would greatly aprreciete your ccoLera'ion. Therk—you.

Science News is published weekly by Science Service. Inc.. a non-profit corporation established in 1921 for the diffusion and popu-
larization of scuentific knowledge. Trustees are nominated by the National Academy of Sciences. The National Research Council.
the American Association for the Advancement of Science, the E. W. Scripps Trust and the journalistic profession.

 




 

‘i ‘° Wild” ,   ‘
§ § §—— \\‘___ Consumer Education Resource Network "-—

1555 Wilson Boulevard
Suite 600

Rossl n, Virginia 22209
(703 522-4616

 

April
Dear Colleague:

The Consumer Education Resource Network (CERN), funded by the Office of
Consumers' Education, USOE, is a national service network for consumer educators.
CERN serves as the coordinator for the consumer education effort at all levels
by providing a three—fold program of information dissemination, program and
materials development, and training and technical assistance. A brochure

which further describes CERN's activities is enclosed.

In order to increase the number of resources available to consumer educators,
CERN is continuously adding and updating information about programs, organiza—
tions and materials. Your organization has been identified as one whose acti—
vities and materials may be of interest to others in the consumer education
field. CERN invites and encourages you to participate in the network.

So that CERN may maintain a file about your organization, it would be greatly
appreciated if you would complete and return the attached organization profile.
CERN would also like to receive any descriptive brochures that you publish
concerning your consumer education activities and programs. If you have
already had contact with CERN, the information provided will supplement and
update your existing file. By completing the organization profile your program
will gain nationwide exposure. Other consumer educators will then be able to
contact the most appropriate information source about topics related to their
specific programs.

CERN would also like to consider your current publications for inclusion in our
reference and referral library. To facilitate this process it is essential
that you provide a list of current materials/publications you have developed.
This list should include prices as well as information about where they may be
obtained.

 

A self-addressed envelope has been enclosed for your convenience. Thank you
in advance for your cooperation in helping to build the materials and data
base for this national service network. ‘

Sincerely,

ﬂzg/ﬁrﬂ ("‘7 r ,

Patty Miller
Information Specialist

Enclosures

A National Service for Consumer Educators

 

Operated bytnterAmerica Research Associates, inc. for the Office of Consumers’ Education, U.S. Department of Education

 




 

 

 

 

 

Advisory Committee

Gordon Bivens, Head Audrey Gates, Assistant Director Barbara Swaczy
Department of Family Environment Consumer Affairs Field Office Director
College of Home Economics Office of the Mayor Northern Rockies Action Group

lowa State University New Orleans, Louisiana Boise, Idaho
Ames, Iowa

Martin Essex, Executive Director Paul Shelly, Superintendent
Ohio Advisory Council for Vocational Paramus Public Schools

Education Paramus, New Jersey
Columbus, Ohio

 

 

 

 

 

60888 VA ‘u/fissou

008 ellnS "pAlEl UOSl!/V\ OOSL
)110M18N eomosea uoueonpg JOUJDSUOQ

10139ng ‘JSAOH ewes) "1 'ch

oul ‘seuagoossv HOJBOSGH eouequJelul
lueplSGJd ‘zeueung 'r uenr

9190-81-00?) MElH lOBJwOO 01
1uensmd “oul ‘setegoossv UOJBGSSH

eouewvlelul Aq peleledo s! pue
MEH/EOSH ‘UOllBOl‘lpa ,SJGUJDSUOQ JO
eoulo em liq pepunl 8! (Nuao) XJOMIGN
SOJDOSSH UOllBOI’po JGLUDSUOQ Gill

 

 

 

 

 

A
Naﬂonal
Service
For ‘
Consumer

\‘ Educators

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

Purpose

The Consumer Education Resource Network (CERN), funded by the Office of Consumers’ Education, USOE/
HEW, is designed to become a national resource and service network for the consumer education field. Serving
as a depository of information and materials on consumer education, CERN is designed to meet the specific in-
formational needs of consumer educators while also encouraging and fostering networking among consumer
education interests. CERN provides access to human and material resources and will provide training and tech-
nical assistance on a nationwide basis. Augmenting both private and public dissemination and training resources,
CERN attempts to bring together existing consumer education interests and activities into a national network.

CERN serves educators, administrators, and researchers within:

El community service organizations
El local education agencies

E state education agencies

l:l institutions of higher education

El local and state public agencies

El state and national education associations
[:1 national consumer organizations

[3 private industry

 

 

 

 

 

Services and Products

Planned as a three-year developmental effort, CERN is conducting feasibility studies to determine its mode of
operations. At a minimum, the following services and products are now being provided, or will be provided in the

future:

information Retrieval -'

CERN aggressively identifies and
collects current information on all
aspects of consumer education.
The collection includes materials,
research results, and activities of
people and organizations.

Reference and Referral

CERN provides reference and
referral services to all consumer
educators. Requests may be made
in person, by mail, or via the toll-
free telephone line 800-336-0223.

CERN incorporates collected in-
formation into a computerized re-
trieval system which will be opera-
tional in 1980. The computerized
file will reduce search time and
increase search capacity.

Information Dissemination

In addition to responding to in—
dividual requests, CERN channels
information through the network
via:

D ConCERNs, a monthly publi-
cation containing feature ar-
ticles and items of interest to
consumer educators.

D Publications which address
common information needs of
consumer educators.

El A library of consumer educa-
tion materials and information
for on—site use.

Training

Training in diverse aspects of
consumer education will be pro-
vided using collaborative network-
ing relationships. Specific training
opportunities will be announced
through ConCERNs.

Technical Assistance

A plan to provide technical as—
sistance in program planning, im-
plementation and evaluation is be-
ing developed. The plan focuses on
problems not currently being ad-
dressed by other components of
the network.

CERN services are provided to facilitate consumer education efforts. Effectiveness depends
upon two-way communication regarding resources, activities, and developments. Visit, write, or
use the toll-free telephone line 800-336-0223, Monday through Friday from 9 am. to 5 pm. EST,

to:

D request information,
D provide information,

l:l place your name on CERN’s mailing list, or
[3 learn more about CERN’s services.

 

 

 

 

 

 




pf @nmﬂmm ‘

z-v

YORK, N.. Y.
D, 24pm:

OCT 198° w

h .Mgnru
a.” m w . u
Vsmv A . r.

 

 




 

A NOTE FROM

 

Dear Ms. Stevensp

 

Just to say how much we appreciated
your permission to reproduce the ad in
our new book on annual giving

Sincerely,

WFB:mc William F. Balthaser, Editorial Director
FUND-RAISING INSTITUTE‘ - Box 365 - AMBLER, PA 19002 - ORDER LINE: 215—646-7019

 




 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

 

PO. Box 3650 Washington, DC. 20007

 

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
May 12, 1980

FACTS AB OUT FURS :
A NEW LOOK AT FUR TRAPPING
AND THE FUR INDUSTRY

 

CONTACTS: John Gleiber, Fran Lipscomb
202-337-2332

While the marketing of fur coats has brought higher profits to both
trapper and retailer within the past few years, the general public
has shown an increased concern for wildlife protection. It now
Opposes the cruelty of the leghold trap used to kill most furbearers
and questions the need to kill wild animals for fur.

A new study of the fur trade, Facts About Furs, was published this
week by the Animal Welfare Institute. It is based on four years of
research by the staff of AWI and is the first comprehensive report

on fur — from wild animal to fur coat - examining the animals trapped
worldwide, the traps used, trapping and endangered Species legisla-
tion, and retail sales and eXports.

Facts About Furs has documented that:

Contrary to general belief, far more wild animals than ranched animals
are killed for fur in the United States -- over 18 million wild
animals were trapped in 1977-78 (87% of which were taken with steel
jaw leghold traps) while only approximately 3 million mink and fox
were ranched.

Siberian lynx coats sell for as much as $150,000 (if made from the
bellies only). while coyote, bobcat and North American lynx coats
sell for over $10,000 per coat. Pelts of these animals bring over
$100 each to the trapper. Profits have increased astronomically
within the past few years, causing trappers to seek out furbearers
with such thoroughness that many Species are disappearing from large
areas.

The history of the fur trade documents the depletion of many species
of furbearing animals, reduced to endangered status or even driven
to extinction by the demands of the industry. This trend, pushing

 

 




some species to near extinction when their fur becomes fashionable,
has continued to the present, in spite of conservation legislation

in many countries and international treaties on wildlife trade.

A recent survey conducted by the Yale School of Forestry and Envir-
onmental Studies for the 0.3. Fish and Wildlife Service revealed

that three-quarters of the American public Oppose the use of the
leghold trap, and 57% Oppose the killing of wild animals for fur.

The leghold trap has been banned in 48 countries worldwide, and all
trapping has been banned in 19 African countries. It is clear that
U.S. legislation has not kept up with the growing revulsion against
cruelty in trapping, nor with the public Opinion expressed against
the leghold trap in this country.

Through extensive documentation, Facts About Furs establishes data
about the fur industry never published previously: numbers of animals
taken country—by-country, and state-by-state within the United States:
how these animals are killed, with photos and text on types of traps
used: the high incidence of non-target animals taken: and the legis-
lation regulating trapping. All information is carefully researched
and referenced.

Endangered species are still used in large numbers by the fur trade,
many shipped illegally to Hong Kong and England, where recent confis-
cations have been made of tiger, leopard and cheetah skins. Black
market tiger skins now sell for $3,000, and for many, risk of arrest
is not a deterrent. A coat made of tiger skins represents .2% of

all tigers left in the world. Ocelot skins are still being exported
from South America -- estimated at over 30,000 in 1977 -- to furriers
in EurOpe and Asia.

Facts About Furs is meant as a guide to both consumers and legislators
on which to base more humane and enlightened treatment of furbearers.

A COPY OF FACTS ABOUT FURS IS AVAILABLE FREE ON REQUEST TO EDITORS
AND WRITERS. IT IS 257 PAGES IN LENGTH, HAS 79 ILLUSTRATIONS, 43
MAPS, TABLES AND GRAPHS, AND 18 APPENDICES.

 




COUNTRIES THAT HAVE BANNED THE STEEL JAW LEGHOLD TRAP - 5/6/80

Austria
Bangladesh
Belize
Brazil
Burundi
British West Indies
Chile
Colombia
Costa Rica
Denmark
Equatorial Guinea
Federal Republic of Germany
Gabon
Gambia
Ghana
Great Britain
England
Scotland
Wales
Northern Ireland
Channel Islands Jersey
and Guernsey
Hong Kong
Hungary

India

Republic of Ireland

Israel
Ivory Coast
Jamaica
Jordan
Kenya
Liberia
Malawi
Malaysia
Mali
Mauritania
Morocco
Mozambique
Niger
Norway
Portugal
Senegal
Seychelles
Singapore
Sweden
Switzerland
Swaziland
Tanzania

Togo

Trinidad and
Tobago

Tunisia
Uganda
Upper Volta

Zimbabwe(Rhodesia)

 




Public Attitudes Toward Critical Wildlife and
Natural Habitat issues

A Survey conducted by Dr. Stephen R. Kellert. Yale School of Forestry and Environmental
Studies. funded by the US. Fish and \Mldlilc Serwce. Phase 1. published 1979

A number of lormat procedures have been used in many of the tables and should be noted in

order to facilitate an understanding of these results:
(i) the numbers in parentheses in the first row of each finding indicate the actual number of

people who responded in a particular way;

(2) the numbers in the second row to the single decrmal point refer to the percentage of
respondents who answered in a particular way;

(3) the larger numbers in the third row summarize the percentage of people who positively or

negatively answered a particular question;
(4) the no opinion response category is included only when a specific answer alternative on a

particular question exceeds 8.5 percent.

Table 47
Kill Animals for Fur Clothing X General Public

l think it's all right to kill an animal to make a fur coat as long as the species is not endangered.
Strongly Slightly Slightly Strongly
Agree Agree Agree Disagree Disagree Disagree
(77) (585) (350) (247) (637) (507)

3.1 23.8 14.3 10.1 25.9 20.7
41 57

Z - 7.73.? - (.0001

Table 48
Use of Steel Traps X General Public and Trapper:

l see nothing wrong with using steel traps to capture wild animals.
Strongly Slightly Slightly Strongly
Agree Agree Agree Disagree Disagree Disagree

(56) (244) (151) (240) (723) (958)
2.3 10.0 6.1 9.8 29.5 39.0
1 8 78

Z - 30.18.P - (.0001

How much do you know about using steel leghold traps to trap wild animals?
Very Moderately Slighlty Very Little
Knowledgeable Knowledgeable Knowledgeable Knowledge

(364) (578) (61 1) (589)
14.8 23.5 24.9 24.0

37

I see nothing wrong with using steel traps to capture wild animals.
Strongly Strongly Slightly Slightly
Agree Disagree Agree Agree Disagree

Informed Public
(36) (443) (109) (46) (75)
3.9 47.1 1 1.6 4.9 8.0

79
Unin/ormed Public
(10) (272) (94) (67) (105)

1.2 30.2 10.4 7.5 11.6
74

(140) (1) (22) (1) (5)
81.9 0.6 12.9 1.2 2.9
4 x1 - 676.98. P - < .0001

Troppers

 




Pieasantvillc. New/v York 10570

: 5 g 'i’ _ 9 ‘ W
'; :9 r; ‘- .3 1‘ g a 9 (I? {3142" 3 -~ '
~' .3; .1 ridﬂx i 9.- _ 15 k3 t 9 14 ‘- MC} {IE} 1.5 9 _ '7 () (J L)

i0?! N M. L ; am
i 311’ / )z'csdonf

Uri-aim q/Carppmn'c am/ ”(H/c . Ufa/1‘5 / .15... \. Feb Y‘Uﬁ Y‘y 26 , 'l 9 80

Dear Christine Stevens:

Thank you so much for your
very thoughtfu] 1etter.

And I'm giad you 1iked
fThe Case Against Animai Experiments.“

Gratefuny,

Ms. Christine Stevens
Anima] Welfare Institute
P.0. Box 3650
Washington, D.C. 20007

 




433$“

 

,7. m-.. .Wr—w-www-

”11111 11111111E 111 1111131,
W11 EIEEE 11111211111111

; ELIJWIQI‘ITON, 1111191111 {A'PI
I~~r~-C<.111I'i11mg 21, dog 10 11. cage“
Iwithout Exercise is 11111151131 to
11"11vthingtI1111’; 1r hu1nanita1i
11111111111 1:151- tha training (1f :1. vet;
cwnman 1
Thi 111110111111t was made I111;
D1 11:11.1 1cI Semtd, directm mfg
I113 Imiw‘r tiy (”if AIher‘I 21 s
I..21III1 Sciences .A11i111aI. (11531;
(‘IIII‘IIIf’ 21 11mm 1.0 the
Impav‘mt 111 of Agricul
1111er I111a1d which. is; review-
U111; 11.111: 11‘\1»1.1<{ 1.13-g1113ti0nsI
Itonwming .2111i11111IE used. for
scientific: research. .1317. Second,
who is also an associate pro~
fessnr of surgery, was invited
to speak on behalf of the
mai Welfare Institute, 1111 m-
ternaTioneTI’ Orrranizatitn that
has Iorig been bactive in insur
mg the humane treatment of
regearch animaIs
The care and treatment p170"
-"£1zm at the University of A1—
0113 for animais used in re-
watch projects was initiated.
undert the direction‘of D1". Set-’1
cord in. 1961, This university;
man the first. in Canada. 1.01
adopt such. :1 program and has;
provided a. modei for other 111-
stitutions across Canada.

I
I
I
E
I.
1

 




I“; B gig “y 3, '23} g

A: .‘ ‘1 {52‘ wall“

For Your
Information

Single copies of the following pam:
phlets are free.

HOW TO SAVE MONEY BY INSU-,
LATING YOUR HOME: Now is the time
to prepare a home against. winter cold.

0 This 22-page pamphlet describes how to "
insulate. Available from the Federal
Energy Administration, Washington,
DC. 20461.

HOW TO IMPROVE THE EFFI-
CIENCY OF YOUR OIL-FIRED FUR-
NACE: An efficient furnace saves money
and improves heating. This Iii-page
pamphlet tells what homeowners should
know about a furnace so they can decide
if it’s time to call a repairman. This
pamphlet and GET THE MOST FROM
YOUR HEATING OIL DOLLAR can be
ordered from the Office of Public Affairs
(MD31), Environmental Protection Ag-
ency, Research Triangle Park, NC.
27711. '

. . LET US LIVE: A leaﬂet on trapping,
illustrated in color. This and other pam-
phlets, several 05,. them free, can be
ordered from Annual Welfare Institute
Box 3650, Washington, he. 20007.

GROWING VEGETABLES IN CON- ,
TAINERS: It isn’t medassary to have a '
lot of space to grow vegetables. The only
absolute requirement is five hours or
more of full sunshin, water, enough
room to set the contai' rs and adequate

, air circulation. To or or this ﬁvgpage
article, write to Con. mar information. ‘
Center, Department «We, Hiehio, £01.
81009.

TRUTH IN LEASING: The new Con. ;
sumer Leasing Act, enforced by, the"
Federal Trade Commisston, requires
leasing companies to tell customers the
facts about the cost and terms 0f their
contracts. The law applies to any per-
sonal property leased for more than four
months, but the. property must be for
personal, family on household use. Not
included under the! law are daily car
rentals or month-toinonth rentals which
can be cancelled Without penalty Con-
sumers who lease should know the dif-
ference between open—end and closed-end
leases. In an Open-end lease, the con-
sumer runs the risk of owing money at
the end of the lease. Order single copies
from Consumer Information Center, De-

partment 688F, Pueblo, (301. 81009. :5

 

 




 

 

 

Chimp on the Old Block

You've heard of racism and sexism, Now there‘s a new
addition to the wide world of discrimination ——- speciesism.

According to Dr. Jeremy Stone, pictured above,
speciesism is the case in which man treats other animals just
as objects without reﬂecting on the fact that the animals
have some understanding, some awareness, some
personality. ’

Dr. Stone, as you might guess, is a devout animal rights
advocate, and he and friends and foes alike discuss the issue
of the treatment of animals in the. “Segment 3“ portion of
tonight’s NBC Nightly News.

Correspondent Robert Bazell talks with a laboratory
scientist, who defends the use 0f,,._,al.1_llll§i1§._.i.n medical ex-
periments, and a'member of the, animal welfare institute,
‘Who‘railson consumers to fight against methods in food
production which cause animals to suffer for a prolonged

period of time.

According to Bazell, “Recent scientific studies have shown
that some chimpanzees have an intellectual capability equal
to a 3~year~old child. If animals can think and feel like human
children, some animal rights advocates say it’s time to
rethink our attitudes towards animals. We wouldn’t, they
say, keep children in small cages, for our enjoyment, And,
they ask, is it really necessary for American scientists to kill .
millions of animals each year."

Officials at the Los Angeles Zoo reportedly were
favorably impressed by the report, and to show their
goodwill, plan to institute a new busing program tointegrate
their chimpanzees with chimps from the upwardly mobile
San Diego Zoo and from the less affluent Lion Country Safari
areas. . .

 




. when Randall Uhl successfully
Jed CBS-TV for its phoney and be-
littling depiction of him shooting a
grounded Canada goose in "The
Guns of Autumn.” Although killing
a crippled goose—whether on the
ground, water, or still in the air—is
anhonorable act, the goose which
Uhl killed was uncrippled and ﬂying.
The TV ﬁlm producers had contrived
to make it appear as though the bird
was sitting. A jury reviewed the case
and decided Uhl was telling the
truth; CBS was not.

MORE than Walt Disney’s “Bambi,”
and far more than polemics by Cleve-
land Amory and Alice Herrington,
the anti—hunting movement is rooted
in the fact that relatively few of to-
day’s youth will ever see much death
ﬁrst-hand.

On the farm where we live in
Virginia, there is an old cemetery,
most of whose gravestones have
lambs, ﬂowers with broken stems,
or mourning angels carved into the
marble. 'They are the graves of
several young children.

Sadly typical is the one marker
for Maggie and Roy, not quite ﬁve
and two respectively, who died of
scarlet fever within a week of one
another in 1892.

Even as recently as my mother’s
generation, a signiﬁcant percentage
of youngsters died due to childhood
diseases that, thanks to modern med-
ical research and applied technology,
will not haunt the early years of her
grandsons. Born and reared in rural
Virginia, where the nearest physician
was many miles by horseback or
wagon down the road, my mother
was one of three children who lived
more than three and one-half years.
The other ﬁve she helped bury.

My mother grew up loving the
horses, cattle, and pigs on the farm,
but especially the chickens, which
were her Special pets. Yet she also
accepted their necessary deaths at
the hands of her father or brother,
or their disappearance down the road
to the slaughterhouse so her family
could be sustained with the money
or meat that returned.

Her father would rise especially
early on crisp autumn days to go
squirrel or rabbit hunting, and she
saw no evil in eating such tasty game
for breakfast—those same dark-eyed
animals she sometimes talked to, as
little girls will, when she and her
brother and sister played in the
woods behind the house.

How different
American you‘rgsters today. They
rarely see death—except as some—
thing “play-acted” on television—
and they usually only hear of death
as something happening to somebody
else, who (the child secretly sus-
pects) "got that way for not being
a good boy (or girl).” They certainly
don’t associate the meat they eat
with living, feeling creatures similar
to their pets or the animals they see
at the 200.

Not long ago we received an angry
letter from a high school senior in
Conneaut, Ohio—the kind of letter

is life for most

that would have been impossible to
imagine coming from someone of
my. mother’s generation or back-
ground. The letter also reminded us
of Oscar Wilde's observation: “In
America, the young are always ready
to give to those who are older than
themselves the full beneﬁts of their
inexperience.”

The boy’s letter said: “I don’t
understand how you can love and
enjoy the outdoors and wildlife, but
then kill animals. How can you look
into the innocent eyes of a young
buck and then blow a hole through
him? [‘Blow a hole through him’ is
doubtless something the lad has ac-
quired at the knee of his television
set.] If someone did this to your son,
how would you feel?

“It is true that hunters pay for the
management of wildlife refuges, but
did you‘ ever stop to think that we
wouldn’t need refuges if there weren’t
any hunters? The animals could roam
the whole country without worry of
being shot at.”

As we read the boy’s words,‘we
wondered where to begin explaining
the facts of life—and death—to this
sheltered mind. When we realized
the task would require a new up—
bringing, we sent only a card point-
ing out that many more creatures
are killed in a month of summer
driving on this continent’s highways
than are killed by all the hunters in
North America in a year. Maybe
that’s why we need wildlife refuges:
To discourage deer and turtles and
butterﬂies from trying to cross the
road. ‘

Christine Stevens is a nice lady.
She IS Ifﬁ’ﬁ‘gT—‘gT‘ac'rousT‘a‘n‘d a
guiding spirit of the Animal Welfare
Institute and the Committee for Hu-
mane Legislation, an aﬂiliate of Al'
Herrin ton’s rou . SET-”(31$ also mar-
ried to R0 er Stevens, who is 'busy
trying to control the rising public
debt for the operation of the John F.
Kennedy Center for the Performing
Arts in Washington, DC. Mean-
while Christine is contributing to this
debt by distributing free tickets to
key politicians and bureaucrats as
part of her overall campaign to
create more anti-hunting and anti—
trapping legislation.

Howimany tickets subsidized by
you and me does Mrs. Stevens give
away each year on behalf of her goal
of total wildlife protection? No one
but she knows for sure. However, we
do know that at least $175,000 worth
of freebie entertainment is added
annually to the Kennedy Center’s
debL

LIKE most moralists, Mrs. Stevens
sees nothing wrong with her own
immoral behavior so long as it is for
a worthy cause. Of course, that her
deﬁnition of “a worthy cause” may
not be universal never troubles her
conscience.

Christine Stevens confuses the
pr’éEE'WatiOﬁ’bf"individual creatures
with the preservation of populations
and species. She does not bother to
distinguish between ﬁn whales of
the Antarctic region, which are in

trouble, and those of the Northwest
Atlantic, which are quite abundant.
A scientist doesn't know where to
begin when children start to chant,
"Save the Whale!” Christine Stevens
doesn’t know when to stop, even
after the whale is generally well on
the way to being saved.

Nor do some of the self-described
saviors of wildlife seem to recognize
when their efforts are unnecessary,
except to draw publicity to them-
selves. Consider an extraordinary
event that occurred last year when
the whaling pirate ship Sierra was
rammed by a Fund for Animals’
trawler reinforced with 100 tons of
cement. The Sierra was undeniably
a bad actor. Registered in Cyprus (3
non-member nation of the Interna-
tional Whaling Commission, IWC),
owned by a corporation based in
Liechtenstein, manned by Norwe-
gians, and managed by South Afri-
cans, the ship operated without

restraints and sold its catch, often
species of

including endangered
whales, to the Japanese.

YET AT last July’s meeting of the
IWC, Japan announced a ban on the
importation of whale products from
non-IWC members. Since the ban
was known to be forthcoming, the
Fund for Animals’ gesture was dra-
matic and headline-making, but
meaningless, since once the market
for pirated whale products was
closed, there was no way for the
Sierra to have continued whaling.

However, the remarkable aspect of
the event was that scores of reputedly
thoughtful peOple regarded the ram—
ming as a heroic act, comparing it to
Jimmy Doolittle’s raid on Japan dur-
ing World War II. Praise was heaped
on the Fund for Animals when con—
demnation for its criminal behavior
was more in order. .

Morally and legally, two wrongs
have never made a right. The Fund
for Animals’ reckless ramming is
more akin to the hijacking of planes
by political terrorists. Such zealots
mask their craving for publicity and
violence with sanctimonious argu-
ments about “their rights” or “whales’
rights.” Yet the most dangerous
criminals in society today are those
who jeopardize the rights and lives
of others in the name of “freedom,”
“justice,” or “humanity.”

The humane movement seems to
attract people who in previous gen-
erations might have been snake oil
salesmen or second-class mission-
aries spreading their particular gos—
pel among “the heathern”—who
were perfectly content with their own
answers to the mysteries of life and
death before being bullied or cajoled .
into worshipping the One True God.
Although crusading to save savages
is now passé, some fanatics have
ﬁxed on “the savage souls” of trap-
pers, hunters, and even rodeo per-
formers as the next category of hu-
manity to convert.

Listen to the rabble-rousing style
of wildlife opportunist, Roger Caras,
addressing a Houston, Texas, audi-
ence. Watch (Continued on page 119)

 




9‘

flCIAL PU

A .\.. - . .. . ‘.
.- ~ \.‘.\.\ guaraw‘
‘ . . 'J-z\.'

63—November 1979

V.‘

 

 

f "1 >— V “323“?“ “I". ‘ ""w‘z" ’ - “"73 -' "‘r“ J-zr‘ :. : .-, '.‘u.. L ~._-,-.,~.». .- t .. i .. - 9.4 2...; . «,-. a. g, -_ ... -.t.:'
,.

'r. .

v

t i ;
,:_

) - .

' z

1

By LOUIS S. CLAPPER
NWF Conservation Director

Tripping Ban to be Reconsidered°
pparently a House Subcommittee feels that

since it’s. been four -' l H “a
. years smce I
gongressmnal hearings on trappinfrhe siiasli '
hiarings are necessary again. Although no dates
h e. yet been set, there are firm reports th ‘
e'il‘hmg‘sllwm be held this fall at
e 1 under considerationw' ~ I
. Ill be H.R. *
égzroduced by Rep. Clarence Long (M.D)1:Sii:l’
F10translolred by Subcommittee Chairman J ames
or inlt:( taJ.),wh1ch would prohibit the shipment
state (1: ctfuiirgmerge 1iln pelts or furs from any ‘
’ w 1c has not ban
manufacture, sale and use of leg-hold tffpis the

If passed as '
‘ presently drafted, the - -
would not become effective for four ygggglsmns

Elsa Wild Animal Appeal, P.O. Box 4572, North Hollywood, CA

91607.

Environmental Action Foundation, Inc., 732 DuPont circle

St., New York, NY 10023.
Inc., 529 Commercial St.,

Bldg, Washington, DC 20036.
Friends of Animals, Inc., 11 W. 60th
Friends of the Earth Foundation,

San Francisco, CA 94105.
Fund for Animals, Inc., 140

Petersburg, FL 33705.
Humane Society of the

Washington, DC 20037.
International Fund for

Cleveland, OH 744140.

I

I
_ u
\ i
- .
‘ - ‘-

l
.3/"'Animal Welfare Institute, PO. Box 3650, Washington, D

w. 57th St., New York, NY 10019.
Humane Information Services, Inc., 4521 Fourth St., Sin"?

United States, 2100 L St~ N.W.,
Animal Welfare, P.O. Box 9754-FW,

AFFILIATEAWITH THE NATIONAL WILDLIFE FEDERATION

‘Know Your Enemies: A Guide 1

Common Anna T. The

Anti-Hunting Factions

How many anti—hunting organizations are there in the U.S.?
And what do they do with the money they collect? How much of it
goes for wildlife habitat? -

Dave Bowring raised these questions in his Sports Afield
column for September. Making a clear distinction between the
antichunting groups, “whose titles ring with purity of purpose,”
and prohunting conservation groups (such as NWF) that are
actually “doing magnificent work in preserving our natural”
resources,” he came up with a list of 27 organizations that should
be considered as “enemies” by sportsmen. '

His list: '

American Horse Protection Association, Inc., 3316 N St. N.W.,
Washington, DC 20007. .

American Humane Education Society, 180 Longwood Ave.,
Boston, MA 02115. -

Animal Care and Welfare,:P.O. Box 8257, Pittsburgh, PA .

15218. . .
Animal Charity League, Inc., 1747 Market St., Youngstown,

OH 44507. ‘
Animal Protection Institute of America,

Park Land Dr., Sacramento, CA 95822.

P.O. Box 22505, 5894 s.

E§\\‘
J.

0007. .
\ Committee to Abolish Sport Hunting, P.O. Box 65, West New

‘ York, NJ 10023.
Concerned Citizens of Connecticut Who Do Not Hunt, P.O. Box

168, Monroe, CT 06468. . - .
The Cousteau Society, Inc., 777 Third Ave., New York, NY

1~I10017.

Defenders of Wildlife, 1244 19th St. N.W., Washington, DC

1 20036. '
Earthforce Environmental Society,
Vancouver, BC V6K 1B7.

International Society for the P
St., Boston, MA 02130. . .
ainst Poisoning of Wildlife, P.O. Box

. National Coalition Ag

14156, San Francisco, Ca 94114. .
National Coalition to Ban Handguns, 100 Maryland Ave. N.E.,

Washington, DC 20002. . .
Society for Animal Protection Leglslation, P.O. Box 3119
to Stat'on, Washington, DC 20007. _ M ‘
>QQOYEC, W“ I New York, NY

Society forAnimal Rights: Inc., 900 First Ave.,
10022. .
Unexpected Wildlife Refuge, RD. 1, Box 272, Newfield, NJ

08344. ..
United Humanitarians, 2038 N. 11th Ave., Phoenix, AZ 85007.

Room 18-2320 Cornwall St.,

rotection of Animals, 29 Perkins

/

 




THE NEW YORK TIMES, TU.

 

 

 

 

 

A Plan to Ship Caged Chimps
To Texas by Truck Protested

By LINDA CHARLTON

Plans to ship a group of young
chimpanzees from New York to San
Antonio packed into small cages for a
40-hour truck trip have prompted
protests from animal-welfare groups
and from the scientist who has super-
vised the animals.

Eric Plasa, director of the law
enforcement division of the Ameri«
can Society for the Prevention of Cru-
elty to Animals, said yesterday after-
.noon that the organization was con-
sidering legal action to prevent the
shipment of the animals under such
conditions.

The chimpanzees are part of a
group of 71 that have been used for
hepatitis research at the Laboratory
for Experimental Medicine and Sur-
gery in Primates, in Sterling Forest,
N.Y. Eight of the chimpanzees were
"nursery animals” four to 18 months
old.

The laboratory is headed by Dr.
Jan Moor-Jankowski, an immunolo-
gist and research. professor at the
New York University School of Medi-
cme.

A grant to the laboratory from the
National Institutes of Health expired
at the end of June, and despite Dr.
MoorJankowski’s protest to the
N.I.H., the project was awarded to
another research laboratory, the
Southwest Foundation for Research
and Education, in San Antonio. Dr.
Moor-Jankowski’s group was or-
dered to prepare the chimpanzees for

, out food or water beforehand, and

shipment, and it was given three

 

. days’ notice.

This meant, Dr. Moor-Jankowski
said, that the laboratory staff
worked all weekend getting the first
group of 24 young chimps ready, With
their case histories. He said he: was
disturbed by the specified small sxze
of the individual cages -- three feet
square - and even more by the fact
that the animals were to be shipped
by truck rather than, asis usual, by
plane. Chimpanzees,glie said, “are
not like dry tea thar'you can move
from shelf to shelf. T '

Despite his misgivings, he said, the
chimpanzees were anesthetized so
they could be ut into the cages, and
thus were wit tout food or water for
some hours beforehand. They were
ready by '9 AM. yesterday, when
they were scheduled to leave. At
about 11:30 A.M., he said, he was told,
the animals. would not be shipped
until today. This, he said, means that
once again the animals must go with-

some have already lost weight.

Dr. Andrew Rowan, associate di-
rector of the United States Humane
Society’s Institute for the Study of
Animal Problems, said he “seriously
questioned the practice of transport-
ing these animals in small cages by
road when air transport is available
and would seem a much better meth-
od.” Dr. Moor-Jankowski said that
the Animal Welfare Institute has of-
fered to pay for air transportation.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

f‘All’ animal owners, animal lovers, and
conservationists should subscribe to the in-
. formative newsletter Animals Canada.

'The articles in the issue reviewed included
items on the abuse of the chained dog, the
Special Advisory Committee on Whales &
Whaling, trapper education, ethics of ani~
mal experimentation, and new legislation
affecting humane societies.

The overall aim of the paper is educa—
tional, and apart from its simply being
interesting, thereis much information that
could be of value in science classes.

Also, with the current concern regarding
the large number of pets in our society and
the resulting problems brought about by
them, all libraries should subscribe to a
copy of this free newsletter.

Write to The Canadian Federation of Hu-
mane Societies, 101 Champagne Avenue,
Ottawa, Ontario KIS 4P3.

The Animal Protection Institute is a non-
profit organization devoted to public recog-
nition of the welfare and rights ofboth
domestic and wild animals. Tell me how to
help animals, is a plea the API receives in
its mail hundreds of times each week.

To do that, its staff has put together 14
Ways You Can Help Save Wildlife, a pam-
phlet with suggestions about how to incor-
porate preserving wild animals into your
lifestyle.

How To Become Actively Involved For
Animals In Your Community is a fact sheet
that lists eight different ways to promote
animals’ rights. Write to Animal Protec-
tion Institute, PO. Box 22505, Sacramento,
Calif. 95822.

If you wish to participate in the cam-'
paign to save the whales, ask for this free
material: Save The Whales, AWI interna—
tional Report Articles, A Whale Of A‘ -
Friend, A Letter From A Whale, plus post-
ers, buttons, and bumper stickers -- all
from Save The Whales, American Welfare 7
Institute, P.O. Box 3650, Washington, DC.
20007.

The National Agricultural Chemicals As-
sociation is dedicated to the promotion of
scientific pest control. Besides research
into safety and standards, it also publishes
Inside Pesticides, an overview of pesti-
cides and the associated problems of their
use, and Safety At Home With Pesticides.

Both pamphlets are illustrated and suit—
able for student projects. Write to NACA,
Madison Building, 1155 15th Street NW,
Washington, DC. 20005.

 




1 -.wr——-‘-~—‘——-‘-—v~ A

For Your Informal/n

, A DAIRY GOAT FOR HOME MILK
*PRODUCTION A leaﬂet telling every-
thing you have always wanted to know
about keeping a dairy goat can be ob-
tained free by requesting leaﬂet 538
from the Publications Division, Office of
Governmental and Public Affairs, U.S.
Department of Agriculture, Washington,
DC. 20250. According to the leaﬂet a
dairy goat can supply a family with
good, wholesome milk for 15 cents a
day, much less money than it takes to
keep a cow. A goat costs less to buy and
requires less space, pasture and feed,
and a good doe will produce two quarts
or more of milk a day.

, . SAVE THE WHALES: Anyone inter-
. ‘ested in literature about the campaign
. to save the whales can write to Animal

 

Welfare Institute, Box 3650, Washington,
D C 20007. Bumper stickers, posters and

. T-shirts with slogan are available.

The following can be ordered, speci- .
tying the appm‘pria te department num-
ber, ﬂ'om Consumer Information Center,
Pueblo, €01.81”. . .

INVESTING IN OIL, GAS AND
COAL: Free. Department 687F. The Se~ .

‘ curities and Exchange Commission has
issued this booklet to warn the public of

the risks 0f investing in oil, gas and .
coal. The SEC warns of high pressure
selling tactics and cautions that this
kind of investment is different from .in-
vesting in common stock and can in-
volve liabilities in addition to the origi-
nal investment. This booklet describes

 

 




 

- ._. N _ -V.. 3‘»..- -4. _ _.,__ _.,.. ,

 

 




 
    
   
   
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
   
   
  
 
 
  
  
  
   
  
 

3O
30

3O

30’

WASHI

NGTON NEWS SERVICE

840 National Press Bldg. - Washington, 0.0. 20004 - Phone: (2021, 737-4434

l00 million Americans read and heed

the news and views emanating from the

WASHINGTON NEWS MEDIA

To sell your product, service, or cause - NATIONALLY r
GENERATE A GOOD STORY, put it into a news release and give
'us A00 copies to hand-deliver to the WASHINGTON NEWS MEDIA

as follows for only $25.

- SAME DAY SERVICE -

Faster, more comprehensive, and cheaper than mailing!

I95 copies disseminated in the National Press

Building to the ”American” and
”foreign” news media offices
(big-city-papers, news bureaus,
correspondents, wire services,
TV 8 radio networks, national
magazines, publishers, and news-
letters).

National Press Club

White House Press Room

Senate Press Gallery

House Press Gallery

Associated Press

United Press International

Reuters News Agency, London

Washington Evening Star and Daily News

Washington Post

New York Times

 

  




3 copies to Wall Street Journal

3 American Broadcasting Co.

3 Columbia Broadcasting System
Mutual Broadcasting System
Westinghouse Broadcasting Coo
Bureau of National Affairs
Copley News Service
Hearst Newspapers
Kiplinger Letters
National Journal
Newhouse National News Service
Oliphant News Bureau
Ritter Publications
Scripps-Howard Newspaper Alliance

Jet Magazine

Newsweek Magazine

Time Magazine

Boston Herald Traveler

Los Angeles Times

New York Journal of Commerce

St. Louis Post Dispatch

3 each of ten (l0) newspapers located
at I750 Pennsylvania Avenue, NOW°

tvlivvuiuvio v tlvvvv int:victivvtvtivvovvvcvtv
7??»‘7660€760ﬁﬁﬁﬁ'ﬁhﬁ'ﬁﬁaﬁﬁﬁﬁ'ﬁﬁﬁﬁ€7ﬁﬁﬁﬁﬁﬁﬁnﬂﬁﬁﬁﬁﬁﬁﬁﬁﬁﬁﬁ€

We give ”3 copies“ to each of these news outlets
so that they can spread-them-aroundl

 

lil'l' " lii'lllttl I I II I! II IIIIIIIIII
vannczndnnc‘kznncmnnnnn mhhdonh .cv'n'nnn'nhnn'nnnnannnonc

THE DISTRIBUTION OF NEWS RELEASES IS OUR ONLY BUSINESS!

 




' . WW‘Q
14m K 5%. M qug  .,

§ .
g. and“ "\ WW“.
1'
g a
‘ l 1'
:

7%; WW m“ w, 41W@
u/"/3® Cam. due. 04/ 0’2ng

,. f , x’""
A) .

.343 ‘
.l‘ . _, g' g ,1
I 3 «X- 1 L.“ '
, ‘ ,‘z '4‘: f .,
‘ l 1 v

I .
\
2 ‘ ,
1' ‘ .
t , g
.' , i;
' If“.
1 J: g 1‘; "'
‘ ﬂ: .3 4 h u‘ -

( " jif ‘4. r

 




 

V 3:33.33

..)ﬂ§.~.v\:v ;
1 lﬁuﬂv

, er}. , ﬁr.)
1&5rwu.ﬂt§ﬁ§ i
_ ‘ ﬁxing

ﬂags

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

43*?- ‘)

 




W A (QM 2m W

[0/5 @Pﬂcfge. ~ /05é 0P3 /

0‘ I“: Hill new W
310’ gm Coo-d4
.d/JD UPE

 

MAW Wm 21W ’/
3/5 W

W, WM Uwaice (UPI)
3/5 4.8.15...

@ﬁfm

Wed/5 ”77%
733 “’15

, k/(aM’a
H27 3? HEE-

 




Mr. Bill Bass

WFIC Radio

Box A75

Collinsville, VA 2&078

Dear Mr. Bass,

Thank you for your very generous offer to extend public service
coverage to us. We're a little flatefooted because we have never

done anything like this. I'm enclosing some of our recent Information
Reports? Could you excerpt any material from these to_be read aloud
as you see fit? If this doesn't seem practical, let me know and we'll
put.something to-gether for your approval.

This is such an important area with so much attention focusing on the
state of all anima.ls in to~ ~day' s world that your offer is especially
timely and helpful. I think it will serve to draw interest to your
broadcasting as well as help us.

With best wishes,

Sincerely,

Christine Stevens,
President '

 




szmws
Comm £09; / karko
Amnmvaﬂw 971. ”2,9,?
MQCIAP (FOL DOC/Q. @Apmm
0.7, L6 ﬁrm .699 Sin»

CW6.» //CN. 0&6!» L Aﬁgﬁnvl.
04 .kﬁnxm- H 3»? #0?sz

L40 Agrarfmmv 101.2:
”UCMU/rn‘ “afﬁrm?

ll/lzéu/rwdlfch r.

”/zzagig 5W

 




14ELROSE,MASS.~

. FREE PRESS
1 w 7000 4

.. .
1.1,
4

naeaﬁm7‘

‘4 Claw” HM

"Local Policy .
For Local Strays"

ToTheEditor: ‘ '. ‘ ' 4 '44'
I read with interest the letter- 1n the Dec
22 issue of the Free Press from the officers
and directOrs of the Melrose Humane
Society, Inc. I couldn’t agree more with
their strong opposition to'cruelty inﬂiCted

.,
{14:11

 

on livestock and research ammals, to the ; a
inhumanity of the seal s1aughter, the in- a

4

4 famous leghold trap and the. many Other
examples of ruthless treatment of helpless
animals, both Wild and domestic. '

4 The correction of these abuses is one of

4 the prime concerns of many powerful
national organizatiOnS-—the Animal.
Welfare Institute the International
Society for the Protection of Animals and
the American Humane ASsociation are

4 just a few. In addition, there are countless
inﬂuential and famous 1nd1v1duals Who are
dedicated to improving the lot of the

{as 11111gdom Mel Morse111

'1 '4 ‘ :§*'§?..“Qardeal of the An 181s

444444been ﬁghting ammal abuse fo44’40 years 4‘

congressman Glenn Anderson, John 4‘

Walsh, sponsor Of Operation Gwamba and
author .01 “Time is Short and the Water
Rises,” and Cleveland Amory are noted
hum amtanans who are constantly battling

4 for animal rights on the national level and

whose inﬂuence has considerable impact.

The humane society letter was very ex— 44 1
plicit 1n stating its goals on the legislative ;
level and outSide this community, but it of- ~.

‘ fered no cleans-cut policy on its work 1n its

own ba1l1w1ck Stray animals in Melrose
1 do 1n0t have inﬂuential and wéIl-knoWn
;' ﬁgures to protect them. They are wholly
dependent on the Melrose Humane Society
f; to meet their needs. Stray cats .are par-
ticularly vulnerable because neither the
city nor state makes any provision for

their Care, whereas stray dogs, at least, 1

4*are . assured of toad and shelter at the

:7 pound Record-breakmg blizzards, such
five are experiencmg today, remind one

4 11.1',"-4too clearly of the hopeless s1tuation of

:- homelesscats

: ' 1.?‘fee1 it would be helpful to concerned
imal lovers it.- the Melrose Humane

"iety were to. publish a statemef-’t;regar- 4

4’93 palicy an unclaimed “44¢ ,

,4, indudzmg suggesuons of stepsito take

 

' shelters or “foster” homes, cats trappe‘ m

V Melrose Humane Society, Inc . ,4 ,

 

4 4 ~11 / fig/g4. ,
if one encounters a stray, , availaﬂe
trees, etc. As a former humane society
worker, I st1ll receive calls fI‘OHPx

bew11dered and frustrated citizens who are

4

looking fer advice in dealing With strays 1
In an attempt to alleviate the problem}
of homeless cats last 1111,} “Cat of the
Week” column in the Free Press Was‘
initiated, independent Of the Melr6se '
Humane Society. However, this column

and the public appeal for blankets for.

strays was evidently considered unwanted

4 ‘ - I “competmon” bY the local group and were ‘-
._‘lttht11 of the£11 . . ,. ,1

”'14; Cooperation is needed among all animal

" ‘ after three weeks

4 lovers; whether members of the local
' humane society or not, to: ensure that 4

every dog and cat in Méerse’ has adequate
food and shelter or is humanely deStro’yed. ‘ .
A clear outline of humane s0ciety

4 procedure in dealing with Strays would be

an excellent start in accomplishing this

goal.
Former Director and Ofﬁcer of the

1l

4
4
-4

 

 




(Continued from Page One) 9‘;
. through the United Prisoners Chapter/of
V the ACLU. - _ A ‘
The TSP ACLU chapter is at odds with
a the prison administration over the recent

decision of: a guard lieutenant to con-
. fiscate ACLU letterhead paper
3 contain’mg the documentation of insuffi-
, cient cell Space. ' 1

a.

'The ACLU members allege that the
guard took the paper because the facts
contained in the letters would present a
“false impression of the prison” when
they were mailed out to various ACLU .

' members on the street.

TSP Supt. Gary Hilton last night said
he was; not aware of the dispute between
uniformed personnel and the ACLU over
the (grunting-M . ixxuifeﬂ'af.‘ , _ .
. ‘I‘I have been busy at budget hearings
for the last few. days and have only

looked attlie more urgent letters,’l’
Hilton said. . " '

The superintendent said he presumes ':
the guard took the ACLU letterhead.
because he thought the inmates might
have used state paper, ink and machines

to print it without authorization.

Hilton said he’s been cracking down on '.
inmate use of state paper and equipment ,

‘ g for personal matters.

j‘We have no objections to the ACLU,
communicating with other organiza-
tions. But, why should the taxpayer pay ‘
for the project every inmate group _;
dreams up?” Hilton said. _

He said if it is prOven that the ACLU
paper was paid for by them, and if the
printing equipment use was authorized,
the paper Will be returned.

The superintendent said he has “no

' quarrel whatsoever with the cOntents of

the letter.” .
"‘f Basically what they are saying in the
letter is true. But until we get something 5.-

,ibetter we are going to have to live here

and do the best we can,” Hilton said.

 




 

’ﬁ'——_Wf7 H.» mg. ‘
, :1
\ gram;
..

  

"1 By JOHN TOTH
T333 men who have lived for ages in 9
dark dank cells of Trenton State Prison
have often complained the cells there
are not fit for dogs.

Well, the Animal Welfare Insigutg of
' Washington, D. L., says these men have
been right all along.

According to institute standards, many
cells at “The wall” are smaller than the
space required for a 90-pound German
r‘Shepard '

In a recent letter to the TSP Inmate

 

 

ri _ on IS" ’1'

Legal Association, an‘rinstitut'e spokes~
man wrote, “ A 20-foot runway attached
to an inside kennel six feet by six feet
would be reasonable for a dog of that size

 

(90 pounds). However, if the dog is}
confined at all times, and not taken for,

walks, more space would be needed” '
In a lawsuit filed by TSP inmate
groups they cite this information from
the institute. ’
“In Swing and 7-wing, prisoners are
every day locked into cells that are 35
square feet. This is one square foot

    

. smaller thanthe Animal Welfare In-
stitute considers ‘reasonable” to bonse a

904pound dog and 15 square feet smaller
than 20-year-old minimum standards for

' housing set by the U N. None of the cells

in Trenton Prison give a man any more ,
than four square feet the over minimum

reasonable for a 90 pound dog,’.’ the

inmate lawSuit claims. , _
The correspondence between the.”

Animal Welfare Institute and the ILA
‘ came into The Trentonian’ s h nds ”

i L (Continued on Page 18)______ 1- '

‘1 , ‘1 '




 

 

LOMPOC, CAL-"7
$99390 ,

(
l
l
l
l

l

i
1

Jm.28un %%ﬁ

Court says importation
of baby sealskins wrong

WASHINGTON (UPI) —— In a
victory for environmentalists, a
federal appeals court says the
government was wrong in per-
mitting importation of some
baby fur sealskins from South
Africa this spring.

The three-judge panel
Wednesday invalidated federal
regulations under which more
than 12,000 sealskins were im-
ported to the United States in
March by the Fouke Co. .

The decision by the US. Cir-
cuit Courtof Appeals for the
District of Columbia was a vic-
tory for eight environmental
groups seeking to maintain a
moratorium 'against sealskin
importation under terms of the
Marine Mammal Protection
Act.

The law allows the govern-
ment to waive the moratorium
under some circumstances. But
the appeals court said the
government violated the law in
this case because its regula-
tions allowed skins from some
“nursing” seals tobe imported

only importer of sealskins into“
the United States, to bring in
13,000 sealskins from the 1976
harvest. An NMFS spokesman
said more than 12,000 sealskins
were imported by the company
in March. He said they were to
be processed here and then
marketed in Europe. ‘

The Animal Welfare In-
stitute, Defenders of Wildlife,

"Friends of the Earth, “Fund for

Animals, Humane Society of
the United States and other,

‘ groups had unsuccessfullyfiled

suit in US. District Court.

The appeals court Wednesday -
reversed the lower court’s rul-
ing and said the government’s!
regulations violated the law and
its decision to waive the
moratorium against importing
South‘African sealskins is in-
tvalid. .

and about half of the imported 3

skins to be taken from animals

who were less than eight ,

months old‘.

~ The director (at the National
Marine Fisheries Service, an 1

- agency of the Commerce
Department. decided in 1975

that the Cape seal herd in South j

Africa was healthy, and could
sustain a harvest of up to 70,000

, seals per year. He waived the ;
moratOriurn against importing 3
sealskins” for aﬁfut re year ,

when/the total number of Cape
" seafsjkille did’ not ex
number. ‘ "

RA -permit\was ,,i§sued ' last 5

December tether-Faun Co. ,. the

eed that;~ _.

 




2 .f {(1-1 H iE {,2}an W.

.y‘ii‘! ii‘rt i“.
‘. 0,1", . _|« ..

19:1" -

JUL 2 81977 am

I .‘I
e .

S ea/skin
importing
overru/ed

WASHINGTON (UPI) — In a
victory for environmentalists, a
federal appeals court says the
government was wrong in per-
mitting importation of some
baby fur sealskins from South
Africa this spring.

The three-judge panel A

Wednesday invalidated federal
regulations under which more
than 12,000 sealskins were im-
ported to the United States in
March by the Fouke Co.

The decision by the US. Cir-
cuit Court of Appeals for the
District of Columbia was a vic-

tory for eight environmental .

groups seeking to maintain a
moratorium against sealskin
importation under terms of the
Marine Mammal Protection
Act.

ment to waive the moratorium
under some circumstances. But
the appeals court said the
government violated the law in
this case because its regula-
tions allowed skins from some
“nursing” seals to be imported
and about half of the imported
skins to be taken from animals
who were less than eight
months old.

The director of the National
Marine Fisheries Service, an
agency of the Commerce
Department, decided in 1975
that the Cape seal herd in South
Africa was healthy and could
sustain a harvest of up to 70,000
seals per year. He waived the
moratorium against importing
sealskins for any future year
when the total number of Cape
seals killed did not exceed that
number.

A permit was issued last
December to the Fouke C0,, the
only importer of sealskins into
the United States, to bring in
13,000 sealskins from the 1976
harvest. An NMFS spokesman
said more than 12,000 sealskins
were imported by the company
in March. He said they were to
be processed here and then
marketed in Europe.

The Animal Welfare
Institute, Defenders of Wildlife,
Friends of the Earth, Fund.for
Animals, Humane Society of
the United States and other
groups had unsuccessfully filed
suit in US. District Court.

The appeals court Wednesday
reversed the lower court’s
ruling and said the govern-

ment’s regulations violated the.

law and its decision to waive
the moratorium against import-
ing South African sealskins is
invalid.

The law allows the govern- 4

 

 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
   
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
  
   
 




 

REPORTFR

in . ..
a], 43JUUL}

ER, N, 1.

APR 2 7 1977

4:? .1»

f MSC students hold" Earth pay

The Montclair State
College Conservation Club
will celebrate Earth Day,
Wednesday from 9 am. to 5
pm. in the Student Center
ballroom. The day will be
marked by displays and the
presentation of slide shows
and films.

, Several Washington-

based organizations will
participate: mironmental
“ Action, Humane Society of
the United States, National
Wildlife Federation, and
AnimateWe.,1fare,.-_lnstit,ute-

The Environmental
Action Coalition of New
York will be represented, as
will the Sierra Club,

, Animals Need Your Kind-

ness Corps, West New

York; Adirondack Mbun—
tain Club, Glens Falls,
N.Y.; Montclair Na ure
Center; and Northeast
Jersey Soil Conservation
District, Hackensacks

- One area will be devoted

to the showing of slides of
the Passiac River; another
will feature various 1“. li‘andv
outs, such as boyc tgbut-
tons, energy saving pam-
phlets, and other
educational publicatigis.

 




‘U

i Hail to aChief: Thanks to Daniel Oduber for 821va the Costa Rican Wilderness

Quotes and notes from various Washington parties:

Room 1202 of the Dirksen Senate Office Building was as.

crowded late yesterday afternoon as if a Watergate hear-
mg were gonng on. - ,

The occasion was the awarding of the Albert Schweitzer

Medal of the Animal Welfaﬁregigstitute to President Daniel '

Oduber of Costa Rica by Sen. Hubert Humphrey, the
Schweitzer Medalist in 1958.

An ebullient Humphrey said, in making the presenta-

Ymelda Dixon

tion: “Animals do not vote. What is done for their welfare
may have no immediate political rewards. And so organi-
zations such as the AWI serve a vital purpose, by con-
stlantlyfeminding us that this globe does not belong to man
a one. ‘

Oduber, an environmentally-minded leader, received
the award in recognition of his dedication in pushing

through the most ambitious wilderness preservation in.

modern times. .
went English, Oduber accepted, saying in part: “We

9 4 \

reject the belief that as a developing country we cannot
protect the environment so essential to our development.”

At the reception which followed, Oduber, Georgetown
somahtes, senators and Latin American diplomats and the
girﬁitor ‘of the AWI, Christine Stevens, mingled over

11 5.

Evelyn Zlotnik, a guest, confessed‘she had hidden her
fur coat. “I am so ashamed to have it on here,” she said,
adding: “-— and I might even become a vegetarian."

it t i .

You could watch the anatomy of a super successful
benefit emerge yesterday at a luncheon Lady Ramsbo-
tham, Wife of the British ambassador, gave to acquaint
friends With plans for an April 30 benefit for unique Che-

shire House, a new conceptin housing for the disabled.

The French Ambassadress Mrs. Koscuisko—Morizet, the
German ambassadress Mrs. Von Staden, Mrs. Jefferson
Patterson, Mrs. William Price, Dr. Marie McGuire
Thompson, Mrs. George Renchard, Mrs. Sidney Zlotnick,
Mrs. Hobart Spalding and Mrs. John Begg were among
those hearing the ambitious project explained.

Alistair Cooke will be the auctioneer for the Grand Auce
7 1,: KW“:

tion Party, assisted by Burl Ives. The donations to be
offered include jewelry, paintings, sculpture, glassware,
fresh tulips, dinners at embassies. The tables will groan
with delicacies from 100 other embassies and there will be
entertainment by Scottish dancers and the British
Embassy'Players. ' ‘

t *It *

At yesterday’s Heart Luncheon, two very busy ambassa-
dor’s wives sat together. Mrs. Hugo Margain of Mexico is
up to her ears, furnishing a new residence -— at this point,
she has two beds and one borrowed table. Next week,
Mexxco’s First Family arrive for a state visit. Mrs. J. H.
Warren of Canada is busy with other arrangements: Her
daughter is being married Saturday.

* i t *

Mrs. Joseph Sisco. wife of the president of American
University, has been in on hundreds of drives for as many
years .here. Last Sunday at the White House, however,
was, Sisco Said, “absolutely a first.”

As chairman of “Heart Sunday," which Opens the Heart

.i 2

Month drive, she went to the White House for the tradi-
tional photograph with the First Lady; .

“After the picture and off camera, Mrs. Carter handed
me some bills, saying, ‘i want to make my own personal
contribution.’ It was the first time in all my life that an
actual contribution was made,” said Sisco.

t t t .

Hearst columnist Marianne Means, who is studying law,
is marrying New York Times Correspondent Warren
Weaver, who has a law degree. Judge David Bazelon will
perform the ceremony tonight at the home of the Frank
Ikards before a small grolip of friends. '

t t *

Rep. and Mrs. James Scheuers’ invitation to “come and
drink a toast to Washington’s new super lawyer, Steve
Martindale, on Wednesday, Feb. 17” had to be followed by
a correction which said, “Our party for Steve, the super
lawyer, is Thursday, Feb. 17.”

Martindale has left Hill and Knowlton to go into the
practice of law

n-“

 




3

S
E
m
m

CHHCAGO

D. 536,108 SUN. 709,12

S

FEB 2 8 1976

 




i "‘f 9“: . ' ’3?!“
tin; “ijilili‘ié (smut

.‘ 5. ‘:w l‘. EX? at

.,.. -
-~ «My 5!.» 5?“

. 5.7.... -‘ tﬁ ‘ ,«.- ._.
‘4 " ._u \‘IHJ ! ,i ,3 "1 :1?
’t.’ 9: V) 'u~..‘-rr .L,"n’..'..~,-J a}

.4

‘ﬂ

'APR 41977 a

5’1 (>’:"|‘ . {3:7

. “2:58? ‘
W

l M—

 

i: Trenton Prison Cells

l Called Unfit for Dogs

Trenton. State Prison cells are so
small that they are not fit. even for
dogs, according to an animal society
in Washington.

A letter written by the-“Animal“Wel»
fare Institute which was published yesu
terday, to inmates filing a suit against
the state, said the prison cells were

;. smaller than the space required for a
German shepherd.

“A 20-foot‘runway attached to an
inside kennel 6 feet by 6 feet would.
be reasonable for a dog of that size
[90 pounds],” the institute said.

“However,” it added. “if the dog is

‘ confined at all times and not taken for
“ walks, more space would be needed.”

The inmates claimed in a recent
suit that they were locked in, cells that
are 35 square feet.

 




v‘

WFDMWDAY PEBHUAA RY 16, 319??

3,252222‘22222: rArL'sN o r 222
2m: you hugged your pot today? The . . ‘ eHumane Society of,thoUmr~
shared affection will do you both some 2 the Jemima}: Wafﬂe luggage

Wgood And the 1'1!le rosy help ireeo- you . : 3 ' f t
NAArm during fi-he Merges} gAA short-Age. ’ ‘ 1111 111111911111 ""11"1111111 1111-11 ~ ‘ com Dr
Our (mamumtv Ahd indeed the A12» about ?(32 stator: .oAimrdeeArimsr-As. ‘ W

the nation are experiAociAg an energy 2 2. _ .2 ' ' ] “Mfg V T“ “ 1'

crisis Each homoowoor and business is . " ‘ " ~

being urged is turn 22:22:22. rheroroemts to
2‘ A 60 degrees at night and: 1:555 riogrees dur-
‘~‘~'~::ing the day; Conwwaﬁon 323-111 appmonb

iy be essentiai for A 3021:; Aims

811011 A. Twﬂﬂiiﬁﬁ is: :Auseboid tom
igperatures will not harm ﬁf’mi’t’w pets. 122.

.-,~.;-,.>-u,~'~ - a: ,A .' . A. -' ,, .: ._. .Jvl.‘:;~.2. ~.v - .2 ,.. ¢ . _ ~ 2 .«ru‘: 2 _: an;
ﬁ‘h’; "*1 17““ (I ‘1' xﬂ~ . "‘21-“ 4‘- . ~y_‘.<“3- " ~ ‘Au< "Z 1. . . ,4] 2"" ‘.‘ 4 ' .«‘ . ‘ 1 '.‘< . » ‘2 ‘ ‘.'; " - A I'-'

u ﬁlkﬁ'ﬂif.‘

’11.
g .u

. it»; 3:11;;

: 2 . .4 Am: Air. Air 220:2:
provide them wit. A 1‘33:va Mai insuiae
1:101". Marry Wiii be. mm metres: and
'* lively no this healthfhi em hohoiem
Healthy eager; bird's {harsher ' Toe
. marries... etc) can soar-ti: WAT: ts Aooier
a, .emprmtures, 3:22:27: room to Air? Asorgsror
,.‘i.. Perms. staff morobor of Ahroii Mo»
'6 .2: maria: Aﬂimai Hospital Bosi oh, ‘v‘AA
" and editor of the resrbook “ Disss see of
Ca .A sod Ari-122213; Birds.” She Amish-A522...
mar-ether; must, be, Ame from-2 drafts 2222.41
132% redder: shining shoots be? Avoided».
Cages should be rovereri of; A219. '
Sick: birds Are An marrow: w they
usually need more warriith
Keeping pet dogs and cats hair on;
may actually furnish another source of .
’ heat. The-y dQ radiates: certain amount.
start in these times every lime b2”: hrips '
0

You may have wondered why 32:22.: so , .
longer can buy those cute 2222122 hive- 52.2.22: " ‘
tires formerly sold in ,21191 hsops zoo Aims *
stores. The Food rod Drug Adrmnistr'ar -
tion banned the 22222: of those: animals“
effective June 23,1975 '

There were very good public hAAIth-W'
and humane reasons. Turtles was found
responsible for spreading salmoneliosis
to humans. They were also living uncen: 2
ta-in lives with their fate in human
hands. Many were abused ’

 

 

 

.3 ‘ 2 ’ .__, in. . ”-2.” .. 1 22.).” L _‘
.. Assesses“ ignaﬁ-gﬁfz‘ktdmvximuﬁtgx: 21:... .

«3": :

 

.23,

5;"- .

 

 

 




#~&j\p% mfa..97.‘ .

V a. .. \. u
..

dwnﬁ. REddEN

.., . .
. . .. .V
. n x 3m x. w. w n . 1
m, x a. . . .....
. ’
... . r

gitwmw 8F P TE. 19%.?me ﬁgun
3% ES NE mks. $1.

U m9
‘ $ﬂ mug \HENmAx n5? <§§
E§S¢§ pink §$§RK

NP: «$5506

9..
kg \fe HEDB‘va

; \ocokbo‘w EC WNhMermeer
ﬁg \uN. \NSRM JP»
H. \“EKV g~§N§ N‘ \WMHQVP QN \ohrg

9k. \KNNLY»

. $53.? F. MQS INKS? g9};
ES SEEMS. inn-‘03... ~§N\M\}.ﬁ «KEEN
SNV PEN 9W.“ \QF SS... 9%

E
i it... bHE Emgg
Sic Ed QwomWSNN ER RNQME. m

 




  7m mwa, m 0/ G/ac/d‘ud
M ** gee Kinda/AW M ﬂip (14.4.17 /

W W?1 .7) .L/m I‘m/u,

om Godot W W W“
Way-Ag Mo ﬁllﬁa-m‘

(bionic/fawn, amt/M (W675 )‘CjLJ/hw

nos/1v; Aw; 4W
“M W w "" hut—r

 

- 5+9W.. m ”tom. W2 SvaW Show

SMMLQ‘, ‘Hu. adm:,.mmow

WQLW, W W 64267954..

Wm. M M2. 4:: ALMd,

(Thu, Mm, £03: ms 0"— ,007" Imus/+01!)
; inw67’5 Gxorgﬁwn am 30007w/9iumbagv9312

The. (1ch ”f M j (“A ham. 6.,
WM Shah‘s-m A} CL. 77% Wu.
«41.20 flea—H.9— MW ~*l’l£u/5"'.' $15.65'27s/3

-Mvd. éwm W“ em“ 2751/.

af/MW/Mmmwoeoapmw

* ”2-4 F511“ and Ol/I/ . up
wohmlﬁ W 2x ”Ff/Jud,

 




I... l.) 130/). Ham
{éwfiag 3 ffﬂw

\ddOlAdJHLQGow A730 3%».

‘ . $7; \dA)
30 /W gnaw Ind/fl)», «\NM 78

x

A. \ ,
4423 g .. )3; 14.333 93
w EM Eﬁuy .353 5% VS,
.(ﬁWJgi... 4100??) g \ﬂ‘qdﬁvﬂgdﬁj [Ada

gryldgwyogé é éoyxaﬁv
amulg gluggz 1423.0 $323994”... (:03
.oomwamr‘g 00+». £33» )agiié 3% ,
Jag»m .132 ﬁn. <4 Mde 3439
‘45ij .04 £32,. Ho 255. «3560
-‘ .dérEO/HaHW/f). )«ny $603.19))

10473 3w$570 g .._ , x2440] \463
gym?» 3 3+ $3; {6

g 4023/; (JG/9).. 5‘ lad) .Axdl/OGJ
$65700 339v! . .4624 JHoimﬁuO Cane
wb+10WxJﬂq$+ aggro? 3
\. S 3344 {1.85.6 #8 .35.
142qu ms +453 .5 .1
.0? 455635 04>?wa ﬁg lﬁﬁl

.TTQVm :1Mi; 43665 .é

\ggﬂé H0253 ICC AB. lmvnulnap 500/»! .

 

 

 

m

 




, 36.337 $210
333.333 3893
. 89:, g 31.633

‘35.? 4:? ”733.4102“ Add 0T 33
M342 -4433. H... «H30 $6.21 d )3
. 33+; 35.3% $3.30ﬁg “H463 999m. ,
4.010 Jag 1323)) . 11 0.53%
4.823 g 4.38: 4.3 135. «duo 340;.
.20. 432 0+ £13? 49%. ﬂgi
«333 \aqua 3,3 .0 was

1' MINIS’J/aﬂj .43 430.503 A ‘1‘" M

144.30)» £1220 £4.90 #9 {€03 2.225))
373:6 141.0(qu 330/) *Aoy 11.3.3.ka
Audi’s?) @540 3/5 33161.03.

\dbw. 3+ng .(rQJHo/abog

an? 4.4503 \wduuul \rb Walla/"Ody

i E: 43 33:3 (RULE?
331/5.” .5...)on .wi,c.€uad 3/3 9243 \Swﬁ
2w, (H31 $31... Add? 4..., m Mao... .
+H .kﬁrﬂzﬁaj g \be .23 x0 .

, Judson/$1.0 0L1 .6 in... (.x3+. 0.4) NEW
_. 4% 3(3) 46 H0 234023400 dégda Jaw/>10

.7

 




n) m 600%? 3'
/0/ {81m 4/ NM

(“1.7 Ra flégch/ﬁz.

// / 43/ MM

Ganja WéA/u/L amv
JAN 1 573 DC (2 7é - 6000

DIQWéac/o [6L o/Md)msW4-S4-
Wain exp/g Moé’, mmsuwsy - 3::

9.35

Gunfshwm 33,?— 94303.3
A103 3m Sf/A/AJ DC.

lhhwnm (Au/3W CUM/[L WNW/15 Mayan mu)
7:29 19*“ 3* W Dr.

7
Giorgi-fawn Univ. (Sufrggéafm 6.255 0/00
Gaonje ﬁwn arm/7 D’C.9.c-¢ro7

mq'l cum/(L Ala/ma» 3 3a~/;z9é
\Cj/ NW 73C 52.000

ms W i .06 FM Lam,
\W W Aévccal’

$9.0m Y2}: \‘WS’
\ S 3 us...

 




”ECO“; Cs. QQWg Km. \34 7
mm

\/ou~. Can mg, CHJ‘meL
\MW “rm Gav. 3% Hammc-ncL/
?~.u,». A, 5uchux. , We. GREEN

M meg M “R W021. CSWL Elanmvd

5km Oak, Tax/\cwxo» FMS woWz/u,

A (3th Wm Crave): 1hv15'\~m$_n‘\\
A mb\\g; \4k. cum MM
W Aha QB’QH‘ 5M Hnmwwsvxé»,
waw A/ bum—W / MW C(M’OL ,
\Qndio. \MW'W Wxns %\M 41:

mwcail m @“Mcsx. SLW

TQW‘J‘VVX— VD.“ LgcAv'u». Liasp

You Can $cw-z, CL (new Cﬁabcx 826.9in
$27, anhcln. a“ Pass. ‘Ccewj
{"3 W (3013—th \vxsmdtm

“43+ $°\tuﬁhw,

m

000443161 cu. hm Saws. (1. W Stai/

R261- OJu/Lgick G‘ackbmék 0% CL Lode ? __
No Wank “h: Claws: Lk inoucfk wag W
CW. 321 MCQL Crvx a? Cu .........
m Quinn; ! imo‘hc'vxi \YWiSHvxer' (”4‘1"

a

 




lo
1» ,.
I:
, .
.
«1.
1
$11
’1'

ill-=99?

..,. .V.
1‘4

' f -

Q:—

”2‘ a.

““95, $7 _
”We ' .“M

‘ 323’: ,1 “5;, ,
T ' .11.»;W

 

, “are. A 9?%5

Wednesday, March 17, 1976

 

By US. Humane Society

Shipped pets look for better care — in this case, dog in makeshift crate cannot

(Singer, the cougar, almost made it

Maltreatment of animals in transit across US.

draws action from Congress to halt abuses

By David Anable
Staff correspondent of
The Christian Science Monitor

.

New York

heusé Ginger ' a c0ugar,
“prison” walls and panted for breath thrOugh
the narrow ventilation slits. /

It was not until Washington, DC, Humane

Society workers were called in by the Federal

Aviation Administration that the exhausted and
lacerated cougar was eventually rescued from
National Airport and taken to the National Zoo
for treatment.

After a week she appeared to recover. But a
day after her arrival'at her final destination in
Tampa, Florida, Ginger dies of “bronchial
pneumonia?

Ginger is but one of many animals that ev-
ery year suffer unnecessary and sometimes fa-
tal hardship during shipment within the United
States.

Among the sufferers are the mass products

side the crate in a sun—baked airline ware.
clawed at her"

of poorer quality puppy farms, as well as men-
keys and other animals» imported or bred for
laboratory experiments, for display in zoos, or
for the booming pet market

1 Some federal legislation whic “ishgﬁuld hel p“.
, put Ian end 4116 such maltreatme 1 , however are

nearing completion in Congress The greatest
danger facing it, apparently, is the possibility
of a presidential veto.

Both House and Senate versions would ex-.

tend-the protection of current animal-welfare
laws to animals in interstate transport. They
would set minimum standards for crates, feed,
water, ventilation, temperature, veterinary
care, and so on. Reconciliation of Senate-
House differences over these provisions is ex-
pected to be straightforward. ,,

In addition, however, the House version at-
tacks the growing scourge of dogfighting and
cockfighting. -It would make it a federal crime
to transport animals across state lines for
fighting purposes, to sponsor a fight in which
animals were so transported, or to use the
mails in promoting animal fights.

 

Lebanon awaits presidential decision

By Reuter

Beirut, Lebanon

Crisis-weary Lebanon waited Tuesday to see whether President Suleiman Franjieh
would keep his promise to resign, or risk a violent overthrow by opponents poised for

an all-out attack against his palace.

Mr. Franjieh agreed Monday to step down as Army commandos, mutinous troops,
and leftist gunmen prepared to march against him.

In the hills east of Beirut, a mixed force of left- -Wingers and Army mutineers had
advanced to within six miles of the presidential palace.

Adding to the tension, pro- Syrian Palestinian commandos of the Al—Saiqa move-
ment were confronting an armIIred column of Army m’utineers six miles south of
Beirut. The mutineers had sworn to storm the palace.

There was no guarantee that the President would keep his promise to step down.
He had already brushed off an appeal for his resignation by 70 of the 99 deputies in
the Lebanese Parliament," after earlier saying he would quit if a two-thirds majority

wanted him to.

In Beirut there was the stutter of small arms firejuesday as rival left and right
wingers traded shots. in and around the luxury hotel district.

 

[m

The most difficult problem facing congres-
sional conferees is whether or not to include
all these animal fighting provisions in the final
bill. ' " 2

The obiections are threefold that the provis

venting full debate; that cockfighting is a tra-
ditional “sport” in some areas such as Puerto
Rico and is legal in five states.

Advocates of these provisions say that such
fighting is debasing and viciously cruel; that
current state and local laws are inadequate or
weakly enforced; and that dogfighting is in-
creasing. As Rengeorge M. O’Brien (R) of II-
linois put it in House debate last month:

“Today dogfighting'is a popular underground
pastime from coast to .coast despite the fact
that it is outlawed in every state in the union.
The spectacles last anywhere from a few min-
utes to hours until one or both dogs are dead
or so maimed they cannot or will not go on
fighting.’

Aides to Sen. Lowell P. Weicker (R) of Con-
necticut, main sponsor of the Senate bill, are
confident that even these differences can be
recenciled and a compromise bill passed.

But the White House is none too happy with
the legislation, and rumors abound on Capitol
Hillthat President Ford will use his veto.,

“We have not indicated we would veto,” as
such, says a White House spokesman, “but we
have indicated strong opposition. The bills
would require federal enforcement and we
think that the federal police force implications
raise constitutional problems.”

This objection, adds the spokesman, applies
especially to the animal fighting provisions.

Opinions on Capitol Hillsidiffer on Whether a
presidential veto could be overridden. Optim:
ists, however, point out the original House bill
floated thrOugh, 225 to 34, and the Senate bill
passed by unanimous voice vote. And both the
pet industry and the airlines now support such
legislation.

“This legislation is essential to ensure hu-
mane treatment in transport for hundreds of
thousands of animals,” says Fay Brisk, animal
transport consultant for the Animal Welfare In-
stitute, rescuer of that half- cooked cougar, and
organizer of a special shelter at Washington’s.

National Airport

 

' '» _ nut.

. scaled down from what an enthuSiastic Na-f’

' professionals and be Spending $20 millionm“

red,“ (Scythe size of the":
'sﬁ’cae werew tacked enter... the “13111 lawn, price '-_ ' 1 ., .‘

. “1;"
‘.-—._1r\_-\ ﬁg 1'71
\

   
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
    
 
     
  
   
  
 
  
   
  
  
 
 
  
 
  
  
  
  
  

11.1\ I",

THE CHRISTIAN SCIENCET: 9:}:

ER DA cuts f
scope of
solar cente

$300 million plan
dramatically shrUnk

By David SaliSbury
Staff writer of - .1},
‘ The Christian Science Monitor .,_

The scientific plum which has beenuthe foods
of national interest and intense state [1011--
ticking—the site of the Solar Energy Research

Institute (SERI) — now looks more [like apes}?

in."

After months of delay the Energy Research“
and Development Administration (ERDA) fi--—~ '
nally has unveiled its initial plans for the na-’
tion’ 5 “center of excellence” in solar energy

ERDA’ 5 solar division issued a formal"
request for proposals from any and all parties},
interested in running this institute. . ., 1

The picture which emerges is dramatically '

  

tional Academy of Sciences panel recom-‘jzf " ‘
mended last October.

The academicians envisioned a $300-milliOn'”
facility, run by a staff of 630 scientists with an "
annual budget of $48 million. "It is this picture . ‘
plus a keen awareness of the economic spin-off. ‘ f1
which would result which has sparked intense? ‘
state lobbying for SERI.

But Robert Hirsch, acting director of
ERDA’ 5 solar division, reported that the first-
year budget of the institute will be no more
than $6 million and employ 50 to 75 research-,1 .
ers If all goes well, SERI could grow to 300’?

' yearly, he said, emphasizing that this depends
on how good the institute becomes

 

 

everyone will ' .. _ _
thing is that taxpayers money-be ' ' . . ,
We wouldn’t want to support a~loser ” said’Dr ,

Hirsch. _ _ ’

This is more modest than a previous 7' .
sal for the institute Which the pewerful Offic
of Management and Budget (OMB) rejecte _
Yet Dr. Hirsch claims that this outline 01: , .
SERI’ 5 evolution was arrived at internally ant -
then accepted by OMB. - - j

After Dr. Hirsch took over the daemon in .
January, succeeding John Teem, who many ob— .
servers feel was a victim of the infighting Over »
the Institute, Dr. HirSch asked just what SERI
, could do in its first year of Operation — a ques- -
tion that had been overlooked until then. By.
identifying specific tasks, its initial, size was,
determined. ' ‘

Although ERDA hopes to decide Who Will. '
run the institute by next January, the state
which lands SERI will not be able to celebrate '
unreservedly. The initial location of the in- .- , ,
stitute is temporary and the agency reServes. _,
the right to move it elsewhere Because the.”
role of SERI is not yet clear, neither is its ap-
propriate location.

Despite the noncommital nature of his re? .
mark regarding the final size, shape, and lo-
cation of SERI, one of Dr. Hirsch’s remarks is ‘
sure to concern the advocates from the so-
called sunbelt states who have been stressing
their natural endowments in their lobbying. . .

“The key to any good technical work is the» .. ~
people,” said the ERDA official, explaining ‘_i_
that the caliber of the researcher and manage- , .1
ment team would be of primary importance. _
This has been the argument of sOIar actIVISts “
in states like Massachusetts '

Apparently ERDA will not apply a “sunshine ,
rule” to their decison—making process. The un-_
doubtedly controversial award will be made by"; -‘ ‘
the agency’s administrator based on informs-f 5
tion supplied him by a selection board
board’s analysis will not be made public,- only a
statement from the administrator explaining
his reasoning.

 

 

 

 

 

  

 




 

 

 

v.

00v um um I?

MiLWiwiiEE, WISE.
0. 350,005 SUN. 543,932

0 .
PM 6 075 0a

Anti-Japanese Bias,

1 Whale Drive Tied

, Las Angeles Times Service
San Francisco, Calif. - The
focal point of an exhibit in the
' n e w national headquarters
' building of the J apanese-Amer—
ican Citizens League here is a
rusting snarl of barbed wire.

It" is a reminder of a dark
page in the history of Ameri-
can civil liberties: the intern-
ment at‘barren camps of 1'20,-
000 US residents of Japanese
descent —- many of them.
American citizens —- during
' WOrld War II.

p. . Now, more than three dec-
ades later, there are new stir-
rings of anti-Japanese feeling,
and it is of concern to the Jap-
anese - American C i t i Z an 5
League. ' .
one problem,_ according to
David E._ Ushio, the league's
executive director, is that the
prejudice is getting much of its
impetus from an odd source-‘-~
thefconservation movement.

Leaders of the 30,000 mem-
berleague feel strongly that a
campaign launched by conser-

 

Ushio said‘the side effects of
the boycott underscored the in-
ability of some Americans- to
differentiate between Japanese
on the one hand and Ameri-

cans who happen to' be of J apa-
nese Ides-cent on the other.
"Japanese American busi-
nesses have been picketed and
J apanese. American , s c h 0 01
children have been harassed,”
said Ushio. “My 3 year old
daughter was approached On a
playground. by an older child
who told her, 'You're bad. You
kill whales.“ '
"The Animal Welfare Insti-
tute prote‘st bothers me, 'be-
cause it is based on the philos-
o ph y the end justifies the -
means." ‘

Racism Denied

, 'In Washington, Marjorie

Cooke, a member of the board
of directors of the Animal Wel-
fare Institute, d e n i e d that
there was anything r a c i s t
about the save the whales cam-
paign. She said leaders of the
institute, which claims a mem-

bership of nearly‘10,0'00 per- _
so n s and sends mailings to
30,000, had detected no signs
' that the boycott had rekindled

vationists to save the whale is
having a boomerang effect on
: Japanese Americans.

Boycott Urged

 

The campaign, initiated two

ears ago by the Washington
. ased Animal Welfare Insti-
tute and endorsed by 20 of the
nation's largest and most pres-
tigious environmental groups,
is directed at Japan and Rus-
.sia, the two nations still oper-
' ating whaling fleets-

Through newspaper ads pub-

lished in cities across the Unit-
. ed. States [and even in Tokyo,
the institute has urged a boy-
cott against the purchase of
Japanese and Russian prod-
ucts until Japan and the So-
viet Union agree to stop Whal-
ing. .. _

The emphasis of the ads is
on, boycotting Japanese goods
because "Japan is the world's
biggest whale killer." The US
banned whale'hunting by US
vessels four years ago. ,

The Japanese-American Citi-
zens-League shares the Animal
Welfare. Institute's concern
about whales and supports a
10 year moratorium on whal-
ing. But it condemns "any tac-
tics arising Out of the whale

conservation movement which ,

are miSdirected against Japa-
nese, Americans and Japanese
. as a people."_

Businesses Picketed

It maintains that the boy;

cott is a shotgun approach that

revives the "yellow peril syn~ .

_ drome'f prevalent when Chi-
nese and Japanese were emi-

grating to the US in the 19th".

century. -

”‘1'

‘.
I"

J“;-

the hate directed at Japanese
Americans in the aftermath of
Pearl Harbor. '

"The boycott is not directed
against Japanese Americans or
the Japanese as a people," she
s aid. "It's economic. We've
turned to economic sanctions
because all rational ap-
proaches have failed. . . .

”This is purely to save the
whale, which breathes air as
we do . . . and has the innst
highly convoluted brain of any- i
animal, including humans." f

:She said the institute's boy- '
cott of Japanese and Russian
g o o d s would continue and

 

grow stronger. ‘ '

 

 

 

 




       

55455 Haws 55%" talt

D. 214 i) still £139,953

  
     
    

A064 we 5%“

Whaling foes
feared hiking
Japan bias

GD 1975, The Los Angeles Times

SAN FRANCISCO—The focal
point of an exhibit in the new
national headquarters building
of the Japanese-American Citi-
zens League here is a rusting
snarl of barbed wire.

It is a reminder of a dark
page in the history of Ameri-
can civil liberties: the intern-
ment of ubarren camps of
120,000 US. residents of Japa-
nese descent—many of them
American citizens—during
World War II.

Now, more than three dec-
ades later, there are new
stirrings of anti-Japanese feel-
ing, and it is of concern to the
J apanese-American Citizens
League.

One problem, according to
David E. Ushio, the league’s
executive director, is that the
prejudice is getting much of
its impetus from an odd
source, the conservation
movement.

Leaders of the 30,000-mem-
ber league feel strongly that a
,c a m p a i g n launched by
conservationists to save the
whale is having a boomerang
effect on J apanese-Americans.
The campaign, initiated two
years ago by the Washington-
based Animal Welfare Institue
and endorsed by 20‘ of the
nation’s largest and most
prestigious environmental
groups, is directed at Japan
and Russia—the two nations
still operating whaling ﬂeets.

  
      
      

 

 

 
     
   
   
   
   
     
             
  
      
    
      
   
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
   
   
   
 
 
 
 
  
  
   
 
 

 

 

   

 

—

  




 

 

 

 

 

1 1 11111 111111 i 1;
MEL WNW EJ441434?
D. 350,005 SUN, {iii-31992;

1975

AUG 61

 

Ann-Japanese Blas

i; 'C mm 4,111
44ch15 ngeles Times Service
- fSan% Francine, Calif. e— The
fécal point of an exhibit in the
. niew'f national headquarters
bililding of the Japanese-Amer-
ican Citizens League here is a
rusting snarl of barbed wire

It is a reminder of a dark
page in the history of Ameri-
can civil liberties: the intern.
ment at barren camps of 120, —
000 US residents of Japanese
descent -—- many of them
’ American citizens -- during
> World War II

Now, more than three (1er
(ades later, there are new stir—
rings of anti-Japanese feeling,
and it is of concern to the Jap-
anese- American C 1t 12 e n 5
League.

One problem, according to
David E. Ushio, the league's
~ ‘executive director, is that the
prejudice is getting much of its
irnpetus from an odd source—-
the conservation movement. ,

Leaders of _, the 30,000 mem—
ber league feel strongly that a
campaign launched by conser~
vationists to save the whale IS
having a boomerang effect on”
Japanese Americans;

Boycott Urged

“The Campaign, initiated tWo"
[Years ago by the Washington

ased Aniihal Welfare Insti-
tute and endorsed by 20 of the
nation's largest and mostpres—j
tigious environmental, groups,
is directed at Japan a d Rus—
sia, the two nations stil oper-
. ating whaling fleets
Through newspaper ads pub-
‘ liShed in cities across the Unit-
ed States and even in Tokyo,

the institute has urged a bay;

_,_ cgtt against the purchase of
J panese and Russian prod
ucts until Japan and the So-

viet Umraammwhal

The emphasis of the ads is
oh boycotting Japanese goods
because “Japan is the world's
biggest. whale killer. " The Us

banned Whale hunting by US

vpssels four years ago.

The Japanese-American Citi-
zens League shares the Animal
Welfare Institute' 5 concern
abOut Whales and supports a
10 year moratorium on whal-

_ 111g. But it condemns "any tac- ,

" tics arising out of the whal
conservation movement which
, are misdirected against Japa-
nese Americans and Japanese
asapeople. " ' .

Businesses Picketed

‘It maintains that the boy ‘

cptt is a shotgun approach that
revives the ”yellow peril syn-
. drome” prevalent When Chi-

.Inese and Japanese were emi:

grating to the US in the 19th

' century

e Drive Tied

cause it is based on the philos-

 

 

 

Ushio said the side effects of
the boycott underscored the in=
ability of some Americans to .
differentiate betWeen Japanese .
on the, one hand and Ameri- '

cans who happen to be of Japa~
nese descent on the'other.

"Japanese American busie
nesses have been picketed and
Japanese American 5 c h 0 ol
children have been harassed,”
said Ushio. ”My 3 year old
daughter was approached on a ’
playgrOund by, an older child
who told her, "You're bad. You
kill whales.‘

"The Animal Welfare Insti
tute protest b‘bthers me 'be-

0 ph y the end justifies the
means. " ‘
Racism Denied .

In Washington, Marjorie
Cooke, a member of the board"
of directors of the Animal Wel-
fare lnstitute,‘ d e n i e d that
there was anything ra ci 5 t
about the save the whales cam—
paign. She said‘leaders ot‘the
institute, which claims a mem-
bership of' nearly 10,’000,per- _
sons and sends mailings to
30,000, had detected no signs
that the boycott had rekindled
the hate directed at Japanese 4
Amer1cans in the aftermath of '
Pearl Harbor j, .

”The boycott is not directed
against Japanese Americans or
the Japanese as a people," :she
s aid. ”It's economic. We've
turned to econOmic sanctions
because all rational ap
proaches have failed.

"This is purely .to save the ,
whale, which breathes air as _‘
we do . . . and has the most
highly convoluted brain of any
animal, including humans." \

She said theginstitute's boy- ‘
cott of Jap’aneSe and Russian f
g o o d s woul' centinue and
grow stronger. 1 '

 

 

 

, FM

 

 

A
_~.‘:|.‘... "1‘,1T

 

 

 




Japanese-Americans Fear Backlash From Whaling Foes

The Los Angeles Times News Service

SAN FRANCISCO — The focal point of an exhibit in the
new national headquarters building of the Japanese-Amer-
ican Citizens League here is a rusting snarl of barbed wire.

It is a reminder of a dark page in the history of American
civil liberties: the internment at barren camps of 120,000
US. residents of Japanese descent - many of them Amer-
ican citizens — during World War 11.

Now, more than three decades later, there are new stir-
rings of anti-Japanese feeling, and it is of concern to the J ap-
anese-American Citizens League.

One problem, according to David E. Ushio, the league’s
executive director, is that the prejudice is getting much of
its impetus from an odd source — the conservation move-
ment.

Leaders of the 30,000-member league feel strongly that a
campaign launched by conservationists to save the whale is
having a boomerang effect on Japanese-Americans.

The campaign, initiated two years ago by the Washington-

. based Animal Welfare Institute and endorsed by 20 of the

nation’s largest and most prestigious envirdnmental groups,
is directed at Japan and Russia -— the two nations still op-
erating whaling fleets.

Through newspaper ads published in cities across the
United States and even in Tokyo, the institute has urged a
boycott against the purchase of any Japanese and Russian
products “until Japan and the Soviethnion agree to stop
whaling.”

The emphasis of the ‘ads is on boycotting Japanese goods,
“such as cars, motorcycles, televisions, stereos, cameras,”

because “Japan is the world’s biggest whale killer.” The

United States banned whale hunting by US. vessels four
years ago.

‘ The Japanese-American Citizens League shares the Ani-
mal Welfare Institute’s concern about whales and supports a
10-year moratorium on whaling. But it condemns “any tac-

tics arising out of the whale conservation movement which
are misdirected against Japanese-Americans and Japanese
as a people.”

It maintains that the boycott is a “shotgun” approach ‘

which revives the “yellow peril syndrome” prevalent when
Chinese and Japanese were emigrating to the United States
in the 19th century.

Ushio pointed out that some newspapers have run cartoons
depicting “slant-eyed, buck-toothed Japanese, killing
whales.”

He maintained that such efforts to spotlight the whale
problem cause “anybody who is Japanese to become a
suspected Villain.” He said the side effects of the boycott un-

derscore the inability of some Americans to differentiate "

between Japanese on the one hand and American who

happen to be of Japanese descent on the other.
“Japanese-American businesses have been picketed and

Japanese-American schoolchildren have been harassed,”

said Ushio. “My 3-year-old daughter was approached on a
playground by an older child, who told her, ‘You’re bad. You
kill whales.’ '

“The Animal Welfare Institute protest bothers me,
because it is based on the philosophy the end justifies the
means. One leader of an environmental group told me to my
face, ‘I understand what you are saying, but in any noble
cause, certain sacrifices have to be made. In this case, it’s
the Japanese-Americans.’ ” ‘

In Washington, Marjorie Cooke, a member of the board of
directors, Animal Welfare Institute, denied that there is any-
thing racist about the Save the Whales campaign. She said
leaders of the institute, which claims a membership of near-
ly 10,000 persons and sends mailings to 30,000, have detected
no signs that the boycott has rekindled the hate directed at
Japanese-Americans in the aftermath of Pearl Harbor.

“The boycott is not directed against Japanese-Americans
or the Japanese as a people,” she said.

 

 




 

 

_ l «'l ‘~'.. “—1

. z f ‘ .214: f “a

. ~. ., '3. .-_, 322?,11'2‘f'5; if ; leis—4"
. ._ _ .2- ~‘c'n'3
1‘ 4‘ AL: ., .hlj ii $23.9
g;:'\..":.~‘:,\33‘35:;10' %"--§ 9 {‘0‘}

‘ t" r‘ _ .‘ ’ ,
‘ 5?, axis Cheat. guinea,” A» __‘

_ w‘ A ;
. 3 ~ irri-
" a“ ‘ '5' I”). («-5 at.
g m -. ' [1’ s .-..\
“.1 ' _
, .1; i if] M,»

marrying. 15$,
i..,v".-§'3‘J
'e.-."~‘\

BY GEORGE HUEBNER

Q—My daughter and I love all kinds of animals. One
worry that we have concerns- animals that are forced to
perform in circuses. Could you explain what procedures are
involved in'making‘ these animals perform?

Do they use a special breed of animal?’Are

these animals: given adequate exercise and a ,
proper diet? We don’t want to, pass final .
judgment without obtaining more facts about :
the. situation. Could you recommend an 5
organization that -, helps protect the? right for
animals to have a comf’ortableand healthy
life free from inhumaneness?—K.L. . .»

A—The most common animals chosen for 3
circus acts are dogs, lions, tigers, elephants, ..
chimpanzees ancl bears. Particular breeds of ' """" "”55,“
these animals are selected because of their colorful coat,
natural characteristics, temperament and intelligence.‘

The poodle is the most popular dog breed chosen because
it is very intelligent, has a coat that can be cut in a variety

of designs and has a natural ability to walk on its hindlimbs .

to assimilate the human erect position. There is no specific

breed'of lion selected.~All male lions are neutered. While f

. this improves their disposition, it does result in an undesir-
able effect of the male losing his beautiful mane.)

The Bengal tiger is normally selected over the Siberian

tiger because the Bengal is smaller and more manageable,
as well as having a deeper coloring in its coat.
It is rare to see a bull elephant or an African elephant

perform. The long tusks of the bull elephant and the large .

ow C i rc uses Deal 1

ilh Animals

: Dumbo ears of the African elephant make them .an eye
‘ catching display. Since you are dealing with such a gigantic,

powerful animal, manageability has to take precedence over

_' appearance. The Asiatic elephant has a learning ability andl
. disposition that makes it more suitable for training.

Chimpanzee-s are divided as dark faced and light faced.

Trainers are split as:‘ to preference. As the male chimp-ages,
he becomes difficult to handle and is usually retired at the
age of 20, which is approximately midway in his lifespan.

. Bears: are considered the most ferocious circus animal.
There are 10 lion and tiger trainers for every bear trainer.

3 The brown bear is slowly being replaced by the smaller

Asiatic bear which has a more colorful appearance and can
perform equally as well.- '

The work-for-food principle is used in training most of
these animals. As the animal’s performance, becomes repe-

i titious, the food reward can be withheld untilthe end of the

show and does not have to be given following each trick.
The elephant is the exception. Continuous drilling is used‘
instead of the work-for—food- principle.

-I find circus trainers give loving care to their animals.

. Although they have a certain quality of, egotism in how they

master these wild animals, no trainer would survive trying,
to force an irritated elephant, bear or tiger to perform that
has been mistreated or excessively deprived from food.
Circus animals are protected by the Animal Welfare Act»
of 1970. Standards for caging space, sanitation, nutrition and,
veterinary care are established by the US Department of.
Agriculture. Periodically, investigators from the USDA
make unannounced inspections of circus facilities to ensure
that the standards are met; The questions that have not
been satisfactorily resolved by animal scientists deal with
how much exercise is necessary and the stress factor in-

' volved in training ananimal.

Trainers find that animals enjoy performing and receive

- ample exer-ciseqduring the performance.

Their argument is that if an animal is poorly fed, denied’
affection or cramped in a small cage it will become ill and
cost them valuable time and money. Chimpanzees are ac-
tually treated as one of the family and are normally found
eatingat the table at dinnertime.

Organizations that you can join are the Animal Welfare
Inetitute, PO. Box 3650, Washington, D.‘C.; Citizens to; Ani—
mal Protection, PO. Box 7088, Houston, Texas; Fund. for
Animals, 140 West 57th St., New York, and Friends of
Animals, 11 West 60th St., New York.

. Georne Huebner is co-ordina’ror. of Animal Medical Technology at Houston

Community College. Send questions regarding your pet to: Pet Place. Houston
Chromcle. 801 Texas Ave.. Houston, Texas 77002.

 

 




W W“ ”W '2 in _
llimllm has it: uNE
TACOMA, WASH.

~ (1‘90
, i. ~..-- ‘l in (7"
m It)“ {1;th 3dg‘;, .2/.L‘,\’i
z}, 1} ‘1'..‘.+~A

‘ "‘ i r W/

Soviet reducing whaling

SPOKANE, Wash. (AP) -- The Sov

ing its whaling activities, said a s
Pavilion at the Expo ’74 world’s

" Victor Amosov, res
”g‘jments critical of Ru
‘ Whales,” said the adve

iet Union is reduc-
pokesman for the Russian
fair.

ponding to newspaper advertise-
ssia and Japan for “slaughtering
rtisements are inaccurate.

‘ The half-page advertisements appeared in the Tuesday
erhhons of the Spokesman-Review and Spokane Daily
Chronicle. The advert' ' '

faring? titute of Was

"'S‘iﬁh an Japanese goods.
Amosov said his nation “1

of the International Whaling

He said the advertisements failed to mention that com-
mission representatives are aboard all Russian whaling
ships to see the regulations are enforced.

By 1976 the Soviet Union will stop hunting several spe-
cies of whaleS, as it has already ceased hunting fin whales
in the Black Sea, Amosov said.

Hideo Takahashi, general mana
vilion, said “I am not in a position t
ter. It's a matter on a government

3 following exactly the rules
Commission.”

ger of the Japanese pa-

0 comment on that mat-
level.”

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

Pl

I112 6511111311121 (1113 Utmra

KANSAS CITY. M0.
1). 334,249

£066 2 3 1975

mg, .., w > WW7, W
121155133 1-:

 

mmal Protectors Growmg
In Numbers and Determination

By Alice Hartmann
:1 A Member of the Staff
tithe old song they used to sing,
"a mostly 1n jest, went this way: “Be kind

‘ to your Web-footed friends. for a duck .

may be somebody’ s mother. ”
These days there are increasing

; numbers of perSons who would find the
~ song no laughing matter. After all.
- they say ducks. porpoises. dogs, cats
1 and all kinds of animals do have feel-
; mgs. They have legal rights. too.

3 What these legal rights add up to are
i laws and regulations that seek to pro-
mot animals from people and people
f~ from animals by defining what proper
. treatment of animals 19 and how ani-
mals should be sold. transported and
I even slaughtered.
1 Although the first animal anti-
cruelty act was passed 1n 1641 in the
1: Massachusetts Bay Colony, the move-
9. ment for more humane treatment of
ammals has gotten its biggest boost 1n
1 the last 10 years. ,
7 Members of national and area hu-
‘ mane societies say the number of ani-
‘ mal laws introduced 1n Congress and
are state and local legislative bod-
! res each year has multiplied. They add
1i that such laws, while sometimes unen-
forceable and often under financed.

= are getting an extra boost from a pub-.

he now more concerned and aware 0f
r the rights of animals.

: Some animal-related issues have be
‘ came popular national causes. includ-

ing recent campaigns to prevent kill— .

1 ing of baby seals and slaughtering of
whales.

Mrs. Christine Stevens. board secre-
tary cf the Society for Animal Protec-
tive Legislation 1n Washmgton, listed
several animal measures now being
. conSidered by Congress:

' 0 An amendment to the Animal wel-

fare Act of 1970 which would outlaw
dog and other animal fighting, already
illegal under laws of many states.

0 A bill to become part of the Horse
Protection Act which would prohibit
the soring of Tennessee walkmg

1 horses Soring 13 using mechamcal or
chemical means to make the horses’
fetlocks sore so they will not put their
Weight on their front legs. The result 13
that the horses step higher.

0 Both House and Senate commit-
tees are considering bills to prohibit
the use of leg-hold traps to catch ani-
mals.

o Hearings are scheduled in the
near future to strengthen the Marine

 

1 state law.
; talks 4 about giving an animal proper
; food. Well, what is proper food? It
‘ talks about cruelty that is malicious

£ and willful and that is hard to prove in
1 many, many cases.

Mammal Protection Act as it relates
to the treatment of dolphins.’

' o The National Academy of Sci-
ences will meet soon on guidelines to
cut down on the use of animals 1n ex-
periments.

While the society, founded in 1954, is
pleased with the prospect of more
comprehensive anticruelty and pro-
tection laws, Mrs. Stevens said, en-
forcement 15 not what it should be 1n
many areas.

“We think the endangered species
act is excellant, for example.” she
said. “but. on'the‘other hand, there is
not enough funding or enough hard
work done. We are very grateful for
the hard work that has been done 1n
the past. These laws have gotten rid of
some terrible abuses. But the fact is
that we need more funding and more
staff (in federal-agencies charged with
enforcing the lawS) than we have.”

’ Dr. G. W. Spengler is thearea veter-

inarian in charge of a 2-state'region1for .

the US. Department of Agriculture.
He has eight veterinarians and 18 ani-
mal health technicians working in
Iowa and 12 veterinarians and ' 14 ani-
mal health technicians working in Mis-
souri. They all work for the USDA Ani-
mal and Plant Inspection Service in
Des Moines. 1

Dr. Spengler estimated the. staff
spends between 16 and 20 per cent of
its time on investigations under the
Animal Welfare Act.

“We get all kinds of complaints m
our office.” Dr. Spengler said. “Some-
‘one might call and say they den’t like
the way so and so is taking care of his
dog or there might be a question on
whether someone has a proper license.
We try and investigate as many com-

. plaints as we can.” .-
Responsibility for enforcement of

federal animal protection laws lies
with several agencies, including
USDA, the Department of Commerce
and the Department of State 1n cases
where international agreements are
concerned.

Another problem with the anti-
cruelty and protective legislation on
all three governmental levels is that
many laws lack definitions or firm
wording, humane officers contend.

For example. several states have
laws prohibiting cruelty to owned or
domestic animals. Humane societies

have argued that wild animals should 1

be covered under such laws because
they are owned by the state or region
where they live.

Ms. Ann Gonnerman, president of
Animal Kind, Inc., a Kansas City-
based group that works with humane
officers throughout Missouri, com-

plained that some local and state laws ;
are .easy to pass “but difficult to en- 1‘

force.

Ms. Gonnerman, who recently was
appointed Midwestern field represen-
tative for the Humane Society of ' the
United States, one of the oldest and
largest animal protection groups in
the country, said she favors. anti-
cruelty legislation on a state-wide
rather than local basis. She also favors
county-wide animal shelters to house
stray and unwanted animals, she said,
and believes animal control and anti-
cruelty programs should be paid for by
the state, not by individual contribu-
tors to humane societies. -

“We’re going to have to have it very 1

carefully spelled out.” Ms. Gonner~
man said about the wording-of such a
“The Missouri state law

“We are frustrated. In many cases.
we can watch an animal starve to
death in front of us and we cannot do a
thing about it.”

Both Missouri and Kansas have anti-
cruelty laws. Kansas since 1859 and
Missouri since 1845. Penalties range
from a $250 fine and up to a year in jail
in. Kansas; up to $50 and 3 months in
jail or both in Missouri. One problem
with the Missouri law, anticruelty ‘
spokesmen said, is that no state offi-
cial .‘or agency is charged with enforc-
ingi

Local humane officers say they also
are frustrated by having to prove the
cruelty is maliciOus and willful and
having to plead with county prosecu-
tors to take on such cases.

Bob Mohart, supervisor of the Mn-
nicipal Animal Shelter here, said he
has a staff of 21' persons. with some on
duty at all times. The animal control
staff enforces city leash, animal bite, 1
nuisance animal and anticruelty ordi-
nances. '

Mohart and James D. H. Reefer.
city community services director,
whose department handles animal
control, puint proudly to the facts that
reported dog bites in the city fell to
about 1,900 lastiyear from 2,500 in 1972.
They say 3,500 persons were charged
with animal ordinance violations last
year, up 68 per cent from the year be-

ore.
Both men called for tightening of the
ordinances. strengthening and defin-

‘ ing the language. The anticruelty ordi-

nance, for example, calls for shelter,
food and water but does not define
what constitutes proper amounts of
each. . 1
- “Pruner. shelter to some people ,‘
could mean tying the dog to a tree, no
matter what the weather” Mohart
said. “There’s nothing in the ordi-
nance to say that’s wrong.

“I think we could have 100 animal
centrol Officers and there still would
be animal control problems, just as we
have 1, 400 police officers and there
still is crime.- The ultimate answer is
education.

. “We work with the negative aspect
now—the laws against cruelty. But
we’re now thinking about the posi— .
ﬁve-education on the grade school
level. Maybe 15 years from now there 1
may be a generation of more responsi-
ble pet owners. The root of the prob- -
lem 15 the pet owner. He IS the ultimate

solution.” ' ‘

‘4"
“,1 , .

 

 

 

1

 

 

 




l
chaei 3224213011.
gun F'zrfj'mffﬂritcr
‘I-n—‘n-m‘:

Byfiiw

Wash:
The easy way is t consider first
the zats and mice, thousands of
axiooyta ous creature's scientifica 11y
raisesi in a ioog; are; i1: room, rodents
without a g1) 30 l twers‘onality or identi-
ty. ("-r *1; etiie swine, 11:11", grunt-
{{‘78 4.2.319. 3‘41“- ‘31:!{31151 31181T'113-
vld ii (S in :1215 particu uiar
mmach-chuming
1332:3313 lard and

a;
13Tf‘:"s1<;‘

“1311-1." .1'1'8 ’X’h; 3::“11 1,7661.
0:: 0:321 011 iii tiieti rooms gorging
" to heart disease in the

oz“ m3:t.
hart. vnay is to consider the

{'
a!
, exam: is stopc- “J:
I’

about 1.000 of

A)
343:: L‘J'i'. p :ppies,
d ‘ particular

"‘"- 'is- - usually ina

_,“ .‘1,

vii) . . .3 ‘
g 1.3mm: animai faCthY at P00-
1CSV111L,1:AU {3ng 3y 01164 breeding
bitc'rs- s 00 d 20 stud ma‘ias,g amboling
in thsir pens, agar, inquisitive,
frie: no!" with liquid brown eyes and
doicfui expressions. 'lhe perfect
chiid‘s pet.

Cr the rhesus monkey/5, newborn
babies ciinging to the mothers. be-
wildercd at the swift transition from
a treetop existence in India to a
small, stainless steel cage in a
cream-colored, fluorescent-lit room
with a bowl of Purina Monkey Chow
clippeti to the cage and a very uncer-
tain future.

Coming to grips with laboratory
animals can be (1111101111.

\
. . .. ..-—.o ‘hhuﬁLMﬂﬂb’M-‘umﬂ-W ... —

 

mmmwgmm'

 

 

Last year, something like 42 mii~

'lion rats and mice, 200.000 dogs _

about ha if of them co;. * terciaily
bred beagies and foxhour ds --—~ 75 ,O’EG
cats and 55,000 primates dicd or we are
well on the way to it in laho ratory (BX-
periments.

ACCOMPANYING THEM were
large numbers of the lower orders:
several. bil‘ ion insects, a million or so
guinea pigs. hamsters an gerbiis;
severait hundred that. sand birds, like
numbers of fish and amphibians, plus

.A)’..'~." .,

assorted schoois, ..-erds, flocks... coio-
mics and swarms of creatures that
fly, swim crawl burrow, wall-z, run,
gailop or simply ex.,st.

They were subjected to an incred- ‘

ibica rray of tests, experiments and
studies. By medical researchers aim-
ing to prolong and improve human
iif- and health. By miii‘tary research-
ers seeking just the opposite. B3r
business and industry marketing new
or improved products. By universi-
ties seeking basic knowledge. And by

i
-~t£&

high SC1‘OG1EIS
meats of scient i
1M0 01'1" uF-gf m. .::‘Ci‘ 1. 1"“? 3“”:1‘5 11IICEtC~
with poisons inf; 1196; 33911 “”"Cfinsg‘",
and. ridr:1 led saith rad ‘3“ jg”;
weic subﬁcted to ‘.irtt:f11ya”“"
of injury ccident anti
physical condition Ti ey we ‘ 1 3
ed, scolded bur at»; :ﬂ. bled ”3““
starved, Shot at anti (12:51‘19311-T11’V
wcrc iorced o smoke LN“ ”15”“:
6 130029 1 ainiine thr' 1-” 5'93”
1‘1“"1115111111‘1‘11‘3 631. “Edit- 131:1! "”2115“
tr: lcncmicais
These “1110 bCZiCVQ that (11“) 115’: 0:.
animals to u ncfit man 1"”.«3111’
justified —- and that prﬁ-babiy m-
cludes close to 100 perm?!1 Of the

I)

adverts-
ye blotch

a: ”A”..- a. M
._.._.4- r "" '

 

.3 . ”

Q} Ema-31¢ W13 .
1 ’ ﬁftﬁw
1:01

€515 vhé.§' «my
pmerican 7033 1-. ‘ on ~— .
phi} )21"1".Ct.1 11(51111‘1111Yi‘n11‘53 "rolest
im‘: it better that 7: mon-
110v, cog. a rat should suffer and
die ratherthan a human? .
' And the enormous adv anccs m
medicine dc rived ti'im arm“ ..31 ex-
pH!1‘.Cf‘.S(>‘.'CT "v”

.118 1/11 131 (all. -1 "
unticni an};

so»: the

whoa? at frn 3.25
tendsi)i‘.i1atr3 Kin; my _'2.'.:-:
1.110 .\3211 (‘1‘; 1.1 SOL 1611‘3/ 1'1“

3 c "w 03:! he hac‘v
no difibl 11130211. it.
the staunchest of a ntivixi: action
leaders in the Uni ted State-2,31%
Eleanor Sciiéng, head of hut-ed Ac-
t’lon For Animals. will 33016 a direct

See 1173711? 31.3, 3-12

Search
Attica,

I
111.1 CV55":

 




.l’
e

)I‘

 

Continued From A-I
answer when asked “Do you

unequivocally reject the use ITUI‘W'J

of animals in medical

research ? "

GIVEN ’I‘IIE INEVITA—
BILITY of continued ani-
mal research, the
ectionists and th

 

animal welfare investium
tors found one of the ani-
mals on exhibit dying with
pus seeping out of holes in
its head.

to several
wountries. th ise
to which laboratory animals
are put in the United States
is largely unregulated, a
situation that major nation~
al groups like United Action

Compared

" '1
(11 L;

antivivi- for Animals and the Animal
8. animal Welfare Institute would

welfare groups are never- dearly 10W [0 change.

‘tlteless posing some hard
questions for the reset rch~
ers and seeking
practical goals.

Theyt ntmo
develop alteru

. ‘1'.
’3 {'C CilOE
t

of testing and exitetiinent- “"333 are “mt!"
ing, things that will replace “33‘”

live animals. They want

GREAT BRITAIN, for

some example, has had laws on

the. boo-ks since 1876 govern-

‘ts to ing the use of lab animals
ate methods and Hinge involved in this

H‘s-

IlbLlls
z‘ited, inspected and re—
viewed by the government.

ed. ,

more safegiards to ensure Researchers in the United

that the animals will not SHIPS.
suffer needless pain and 113W . ~
better every inch of the way. 'lhe

cruelty. They snel:
physical care and treat~'

by comparision.
fought regulation

United States today has a

merit and an end to such lightly enforced Animal

long entrenched practices WEIR-’1

. as the standard “LDSO”
. tests in which so percent of
the animals must die.
they w

re Act governing hu-
mane care and relies most-
ly on peer review to prevent ‘

And SUffcriﬁtz and assure that
ant some sort of com the experiments are sewn»

trol mechanism established tifically valid and 30085-
to determine how much of Sill‘Y-

the research is unnecessary
and repetitive.

"For too long, scientists
have enjoyed the luxury of
doing their thing behind
closed doors and most
often, they are. doing it with
public monies," John A.

Until Congress passed the
Animal welfare Act in 1966,
laboratory animals had no
legal safeguards. The act,
which the research inter-
ests opposed strongly, sets
minimum care standards in

. the breedina transporting
' . ‘- } 3 _ . , hi ,
.ltoyt, pie‘Sident Of U“ .H” and housuig of animals and
mane Enemy of the United ‘

' States, wrote recently.

calls for the use of pain-kill-

' ' . - inq dru-s durin ex 'eri-
“Noither their Objectives 1’ 9 E1 P

nor their techniques has
had to stand the test of pub-

ments. except when such
drugs would interfere With

. . . the results of the stud .
lic scrutiny. Consequently, y

only rarely are they requir
ed to apply to their w
ethical and moral stand
other than their own. And it
can hardly be expected that
their subjects w most often
animals —— can offer a very
effective protest.”

The watchdog groups.
also believe that the huge
animal importing
breeding industry
grown in recent years pro-

motes the continuing use of {lb-H

animals in laboratories and years . .
DIS at called Christine Stevens,

tries to retard attem
finding alternate methods
of research that would cut
into its profits - methods
such as

mechanical models, com-
puters, tissue cultures.

donated human organs and meats and “llml’mt

various sopliisti

chines.
Researchers sin

that the

cated ma~

place live animals simply forced them ‘0
isn't available, and those the”, standards.
who claim it is are naive conditions

‘and uninformed.

The groups also are
focusing on the widespread
use. of animals in high
schools, particularly in
science fair experiments.
The state of California,
reacting in part to some
welldocumented ca 3 of
cruelty at this Icvci, ha
banned the use of live verte-
brates in high school class-
rooms, and several bills
have been introduced
past sessions of Congress
aimed at a nationwide ban.

Among the cases cited by
the animal welfare groups
are a girl who won a free
trip to l-l’ashington and $250
from the National Science

. Foundaton after blinding
sparrows and then starvii'i;=,
them to death. and an Iii;-
year-old boy who tool; first
prize at the Mississippi
State Science Fair after im-
planting electrodes in the
brains of squirrel n‘ionlteys.
The. boy’s surgical attempts
were clumsy at ltest, and

C .5

5'»

OH: cried in
ards only

3"“ 1 OT

‘ :ered exhibitors a

The legislation, strength-
1970, came about
.-rop0ncnts had
l’it‘idly the

after
documented
abuses “pcmapiog” by
some of the unscrupulous
animal suppliers and the
abominable conditions in
which dealers
laboratories housed the ani-

né‘
\Jl

gun...—

and mals.
that has .

“It was a tremendous
t'” and it took its six
to get the act," re-

presidont of the Animal
Welfare Institute and a re-
spected leader of the na-

mathematical and tional animal-care move-

ment. ”I think the act has
made substantial unprove-
cd many
it‘s

inal

0f the extreme abuses
driven a lot of the marg

te flatly and unscrupulous animal

id
improve
But poor
remain. They
have nowhere near enough
money or people to enforce
it properly.” '

Stevens insisted that her
organization is not antivivi-
scctionist. “We are not
trying to save the lives of
these animals, because
most are bred specifically
" ‘ u~e~érr¥rbvr3a twigs, Uni: :-
said. "But we say absolute-
ly that there should be no
pain or suffering by the ani-

jn mals. and we feel there is a

lot of this happening despite
the act. Our studies Show
that after-care, the use of
pain~killing analgesicsafter
experiments. is “often poor
because it’s expensive,”
she continued.

“I think a great deal of
Uiiziotzessgiry experiments
are done with unit ‘ials, par-
ticularly in basic research
and. behavioural studies
that can be quite painful
and cruel.) recall my fa—
ther, who was head of
physiology at the Universi-
ty of Michigan, telling me
that he thought 50 percent
of the animal experiments
Were a waste of time."

I Weitare ﬂCl,’

ine anima
while improving c’on
still has a long w
fore it satis'

ditions,
ay to go be-
fies the humane
groups, the researchers
themselves (who feel the
government should have
paid for much of costly im»
provements that the act re-
quired) and even the US.
Department of Auriculture

L)

which enforces it.

Dr. Dale F.
nan, senior veterinarian on
Elle USDA branch that en-
‘orces the act, agreed that
its staff was spread too
rhinly for truly effective
)olicmg of the nation‘s 5,133
animal dealers, 1,097 regis-

nd roug -
at; research

'We visn

Schwinda—

y 2,203 scpar
aboraiories.
them twice a year at most,
because we don’t have the
budget," he

. “Our enforcement
budget comes to less than $2
million a year. But overall
I really believe that the labs.
do a good job. That pain is

a minimum."

AMAJOR
the act, as
groups see it

the anima'
, is the fate'f“

“-

LOOPHDLE in l "

hat government instituc
tions such as the National
Institutes of Health, the na-
tion's veterans hospitals,
and more particularly the
miliiaiy, are not inspected
but are trusted to maintain
minimum care standards on
a sort of honor system. And
'a the. case of the n ilitary
t ‘ skepticism runs deep.

.t np e, e use of
hundreds of beagles in
chemical-biological warfare
experiments at the Army's
Edgewood Arsenal near
Baltimore touched off a
furor last year that contin-
ues today. The outcry
prompted Congress to
prohibit the use of the dogs
in such tests. The Army.
says it halted that program,
although last May it admit-
ted using 450 beagles in ex-
periments to test riotcon-
trol devices and chemical.

isposal methods.

Following continued pub-
lic pressure, the Army
recently allowed the US.
Humane Society to inspect
its animal housing facilio
tics, and the society report-
ed they “didn't even come
close” to the minimum
standards ordered by the
Animal Welfare Act. The
Army refused to allow the
investigators to see any of

he experiments involving
1 e beagles.

>'il’lie upshot last month
vas a hotly worded request
by Rep. Les Aspin, DvWis.,
for a General Accounting
Office probe to learn just
what the Army is doing with
1 {\dogs at Edgewood.

Determining how much
animal experimentation is
unnecessary, repetitive or
needlessly cruel is probably
impossible because every-
one has different standards.
li‘c-r the layman. it‘s easy to
reconctle experiments in
such areas as cancer re-
search, heart disease,
CF‘QEZ‘.‘ 3F?PFﬁlpnte infec-

J‘ ,

--\1\ \" ‘ ~4 -
Uluyuo “" ""‘q,

A
M U‘
Ln A uu.bavws

tious
procedures.

MORE DIFFICULT to
understand are some of the
seemingly unnecessary,
cruel and repetitive experi-
ments published in grue-
some and vivid detail by the
antivivisection groups in
the areas of behavioral
studies and basic research.

Are they simply knowl-
edge for knowlcdge's sake,
as the critics claim. or are
they tiny and potentially
significant pieces of the
giant jigscw puzzle that
may one day lead to cures
for all the ills of man, as the
researchers believe

Interviews with key ani-
mal research officials at the
National Institutes for
Hezlth in» Bethesda and
will. the National Society
for Medical Research,
which lobbies for the note
striated use of lab annuals,
indicate that the animal
groups, particularly those
“P“?! the HECTE‘D arcticis’

.... i and
rational approach to animal
care, are succeeding in
their goals.

"Look, I'm not going to
say there haven't been
some problems in this field"
said Dr. Robert Whitney,
who runs Nlll's veterinary
resources branch. “There
have been some problems
with high school kids using
animals. And I would never
say that there haven't been
times when aniviials have
suffered needlessly. But it
is nothing like the lunatic
fringe of the antivivisccti :3
groups claim.

“I honestly believe that
suffering and repetitive cv-
periments are kept to a
minimum and I think our
peer review methods are
strong enough to prevent
abuses” he said. "The nrpq-

. group.» file “use,
tine Stevens’ people have ﬂ
brought on us, in retro-
spect, have been good for
us. People have seen the
handwriting on the wall. If
we don‘t police ourselves,
then somebody will step in
and do it for us. And I think
we've responded positively
to these efforts to improve
the care of the animals we
use.”

The most tangible exam-
ple of the increasing coop-
eration between the two
Sides will occur in October
when the National Academy
of Sciences'wiii bring to-
gether representatives ofl
humane groups and medical
researchers to explore the
whole question of laborato-
ry animals and alternative
methods'of biomedical re"-
searcl:. It will be the first
symposium of its kind ever
held, and both sides feel
that the end result can only
be a better deal for both the
knowledge seekers and the
animals they use. i

‘ *‘M

sure that

 




. 1" -,-,r’111\_: i" 1 } ‘ ' 1 ,; 5'

'g‘-

. I ‘ ‘ r“ ‘ ‘ I
inﬁnite?”rim-ito - “I if ; .15 ,_1..-.\,w~.
- . L ‘ - ‘ ‘. 3 1 , , '1 ‘
- , . ~ 1

,. ﬁﬁﬁ” wﬁfii’iwl’i ’3‘?“ “’35 TWP "3"”: is

”1’... .., . 1.»; ‘ ‘ _ ,, . .1 1'3; ‘ 1. ,
t , ' i ‘ ‘ v ‘ o

 

 

I‘
i.

 

The Sentinel

[Family Page

 

 

 

 

 

Page II Winston-Salem. N. C

CamIlIa Clarlr models a pieced min/r [ac/ref willI leather Saturday. jammy 3, |975

insets and bell.

'Staius' of Fur and Its variety

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 

Sentinel Staff Reporter

The woman bundled for party-going in a
full- length mink coat may be snug, but these
.. - ,.:: 7 . 1‘ days she has little reason to be smug.

' '7' ' Whereas in the past years she might have

' drawn comments like “Is it real?” or
“Dahling, you must tell me your furrier,” to-
day she is just one of millions who are con-
tributing to the fur industry’ 8 biggest boom
in 2‘) years.

Skin 1s in, in a big way, this season and fur
sales are expected to show a greater per-
centage increase than any other kind of
outerwear, nearly $100 million more than
last year.

Many factors are involved in the rush to
the fur racks, hat the least ofwhich is the
continuing belief in the status involved in
owning a genuine fur. It is still a costly lux-
ury, but no longer one limited to the wealthy.

Fur prices have risen only slightly over the
years, while the costs 0f f,other more
“necessary” luxuries such as cars, food and
homes have risen sharply. me consider
. -furs an investment; if wel -ten’ded, they
' .w1lli:1nscrease,m value part1cularly in light of
' .5. e? e r_'.7 11 ~43: _. “Ree
‘ ' ‘ raged in the

  
  
 
 
 
 

abated since

 
 
 
 
  

of wildlife in clothing has,

country was passed. Scatter d but active
strongholds against the killing of animals in
general still urge consumers 11 t to wear, eat
or wash their faces with ite s made from
animal parts or products, but many may
have accepted the supposed safety of the en-
dangered species as the go— -ahead to buy what
they like.

How the animals are caught, and what
happens to their bodies after Skinning is to
them someone else’s worry.

Fur retailers in Winston- Salem agreed that
consumers this year are unusually willing to
part with sizable sums for the real thing. And
store clerks’ long lists of what is available
point to the great variety of furs and styles
as a major factor in the items’- popularity.

Styles are no longer limited to “-finger- -tip”

, Sentinel Photos by Cookie Snyder

Repl urs used for garmenfs include red fox, Russian sable and mink length stoles and round- collar single-
i'igﬂi 9E (Ibis example called 'blaclr cross '). breasted street length coats. Several lengths
N “in.

1
1i
5-

early ’70s over the use of end I gered species '

legislation banning the pra tice in this

Natural slrins are used for furnrslungs, and a rabbit slun
becomes a Iroala. ‘

Factors in Demand

are available, and jackets and coats come
flared or fitted, belted or unbelted, with
leather insets, and in a rainbow of natural or
dyed colors. Particularly popular are the
pieced garments, which can be made less ex-

pensively from formerly undesirable parts.

such as paws. For all uses, mink is still the
favorite fur.

“Business is improving every day, said
Tom Papastavrou, manager of Anastasia
Furs in the Winston-Salem Hyatt House, the
city’s only fur store. The store opened a year
ago, and Papastavrou has found that there
are enough people here interested in special-
ly designed natural furs to make his business
thrive.

Pearl Hickling, division manager for
dresses and coats at Sears Roebuck and Co.,
said that the store’s fur sales this year are
considerably greater than last.

“Last year we started selling them right
when the (economic) crunch came,” she
said. “I think that now people are a lot more
optimistic about how times are going to be.
People have more money to spend, and fur
has always been a treasured item and a feel-
ing of l.uxury

,9

1.1.1.... -mnmanetm1we sell area Mr. 1111111111? I

Class, the person with an $8 000 to $15, 000 1n-
come They’ re more desirous of it than the

wealthy —- and besides, the wealthy have i

already had it.”
Mrs. Hickling disagreed with the idea that
furs are a good investment - like an

automobile, they will depreciate in value, .

she said.
“There’s definitely a trend back to being a

‘ little dressier, and away from this ‘anything

goes’ attitude. Women are turning more to

dresses, and long gowns are getting dressier. ,

A fur is the final touch.”
Because of the expense and durability of
fur coats and jackets, people shop carefully

for them, according to Francis Parnell,
salesman at Monta’ldo’s, Inc. “They think .
about it carefully, because a fur lasts a lot.

longer than a car,” she said.

Many of her customers are young women

and college students, she said, who often
bring husbands and friends shopping with
them, “because it’s not like a regular dress
you buy and don’t care who likes it.”

. girls a mean old woman for killing the rab-

Furs are increasingly available, she Said,

and the cuStomer can usually find or order}
whatever he wants. “They even have mink“

bedjackets on the market dyed pink or blue,
but there’s not much market for them here
- that’s for somebody who really has
everything.”

The market in fake or “fun” furs which
has thrived for the“ last several years has
taken only a light beating from the growing
sales of genuine furs. Fake fur coats and.

jackets are moving as swiftly as ever, ac;
cording to Dewitt Nicholsof L. Roberts, but».
the store sells no real, furs. Salesmen in other :.,
stores indicated that interest in. fake fursis ~.

lagging.

The cost of fake furs rises with the cost of
petroleum, because many of them are made
from petrochemicals. The most eCological-
ly minded consumers avoid them because
their vmanufacture is liable to be adding
to a polluted environment. . .

Furs are also becoming pOpular in fur-
nishing accessories and are sold as rugs
pillows, bedspreads or in uncut pelts for area
rugs or wall- -hangings

Business in fake and natural furs is brisk

accordmg to Dennis Genung, ass1stant“
'manager 0f Pier One Imports He said the
sheepskins are much more popular than the» ,

small rabbit pelts, but that the large fake fur
rugs are the best sellers.

According to Nat Shaffir, manager of the
Natural Fur Co.

 

i

£53,211)

in Greensboro, there are;

  

‘h‘ié‘v ‘u Zy'vr he'd ‘x‘m-‘v-r'w '9. s3 ‘Lﬁwz 5’ j

i

‘-A<LAW44W“AAMA AW‘ .14-“-

he

three reaSons for the desirability of genuine "

fur accessories: They always go up in value .
they never wear out, and they match any fur-

as»

nishings and color schemes Used in a home
Sales Clerks surveyed said that fUr buyers” 5'

assume- that the animals used are raised on
ranches, rather than killed in the wild. The
more civilized the slaughter,
acceptable the coat.

“We get a few in eyery once in a while —'_

ecology nuts — who say they wouldn’t buy a

fur because an animal was killed,” sa1d

Genung.

Mrs. Hickling could reCall only one com- ~

+ I
‘ I

plaint about the sale of genuine furs. .
“Last year a little boy called One of my

bits, ” she said.

the more ‘

I

 

."f'Welfare Institute and secretary of the Socie-
L‘ty for Animal Protective Legislation, said in
,.; a; telephone interview from Washington that
' among the public misconceptions concerning
ithe production of furs are the belief that

 

onservafionisfs of Genuine Fur

“REAL PEOPLE WEAR FAKE FURS”

A button bearing those words is worn by
members of the Fund for Animals, a national
organization, with actress Mary Tyler Moore
as its chairman, which promotes the
boycotting of items made from animal parts

‘ or products, ineluding genuine furs, certain

cosmetics and foods.

The fund is one of several organizations
trying to keep alive the moral controversy
over the killing of animals, particularly en-
dangered species, for their pelts.

Christine Stevens, president of theAnimal

nearly all the animals used are raised on
special ranches and that they are all killed
humanely.

Testimony at recent Congressional
hearings was that only about half of. the
animals are ranch—raised, she said. They in-

.~ clude all chinchillas, most minks and some
: foxes".

 

I'T-iéTom7Papastavrou SGWS O fur 3MP-

 

Min/(s are raised for their pelfs.

“But there’s still a lot of fox trapping, and
of course nobody breeds coyotes, wolves,
martins, beavers, muskrats or raccoons,’
she said

Mrs. Stevens is one of many conser~
Vationists working for legislation to ban or
alter the use of the steel leg-hold trap,
device which clamps on an animal’s leg or
paw, sometimes breaking it, but seldom kill-
ing the animal. In its terror and effort to be
free, the animal may try to bite off the
entrapped limb, chew its own skin or nearby
tree bark, or dig a trench around the trap.

Seven countries have outlawed leg-hold
traps.

Legislation which is pending would
authorize the Secretary of the Interior to
define approved traps to be used on federal
land. According to Mrs. Stevens, the defini-

tion would probably include traps that kill in-

stantly or painlessly, such as box traps, or
steel traps with offset or padded jaws. There
has also been research on equipping traps
with tranquilizin'g tablets.

“But. we’ re talking about something so
horrible that even improvements readily

available are not very nice,” she said.

- furs has centered around the killing of en-
» dangered species. In 1966 Congress approved

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
  

State laws controlling the amount of time
an animal can be left in a trap are generally
not well enforced, she said- “It’s fair to say
that the larger proportion of states have time
limits longer than 24 hours; 18 have no time
limit at all,” including North Carolina.

The only legal reStraints on trappers in
Forsyth County fall under an animal control
ordinance prohibiting cruelty to animals, ac-
cording to a spokesman at the Humane
Society. There 13 a similar state law, he said.

Traps are also indiscriminant about what
they trap, Mrs. Stevens said, Badgers, dogs
and other small animals are often found dead
or severely maimed inhs'teel traps.

Most of the concern in "the last decade
about the production and buying of genuine

the first list of endangered species of
domestic and foreign plants, fish and
wildlife; it included such iur favorites as
jaguar, ocelot, leopard, and also Northern
Kit fox, all species of lemllI'S, and vicuna. A
1969 bill prohibited their importation

The Endangered Species dot of 1973 com-
bined the two previous billstand prohibited
interstate traffic of parts 01’}. roducts of en-
dangered species It also pecified com-
pliance with the terms of t11%Convent1on on
International Trade in End angered Species
of Fauna and Floral , voluntary
organization. The United Stat ’ ‘ was the first
of 25 nations to ratify its te!‘ is in 1973.

Still, fur smuggling, P‘J , ,‘hg and dis-,
regard of the convention are , . despread “In
France, for instance, they 9;, , ..
about endangered species; 1 7.
said. “There’s still a lot of the eammals be-
ing killed and sold for furs»,

“The fur industry has faCé"I.-7n,p to the en-
dangered species isSue,’ 5119;? [d “but only
after the law was passed

“It hasn’t yet faced UP
issue.”

  

>1 1
1}; ‘
.‘ N .
‘
I
1




PRES S E [E A SE

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE » October 2, 1975

P.0. Box 3650 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Washington, D.C. 20007
(202) 337-2332

Contact: Marjorie Cooke

WASHINGTON. An appeal to Emperor Hirohito to end
commercial whaling by Japan was made by conservationists
today. ‘

The Japanese whaling industry kills more than 40% of the
35,000 great whales killed annually. All but one of these
species is listed by the United States Government as in
danger of extinction. The United Nations calls for a ten—
year moratorium on commercial whaling.

In a recent interview, Emperor Hirohito, a distinguished
marine biologist, stated: "I believe that if people:
would treat nature carefully it would be possible to
protect the environment and permit life and nature to
flourish.”

The Animal Welfare Institute, Defenders of Wildlife,

Fund for Animals and Friends of the Earth stated in
conjunction with a plea to the Emperor at the time of

his visit to the Smithsonian Institution, ”The traditional
Japanese reverence for nature is widely acclaimed by

tall peoples. The Emperor and Empress personify this living
in harmony with Nature. The depredations of the whalers
are therefore a great disservice to Japan. There is no
need for whale products in the modern world economy. But
Japanese and Soviet whalers continue to ruthlessly hunt
down the last of the whales. It is a tragedy for all
mankind that the eight species of great whales are now
listed as endangered species.

"Emperor Hirohito would do a great service to Nature
and future generations of man by leading Japanese public
opinion to put an end to whaling in Japan.”

 




 

 

YOUR IMPERIAL MAJESTY

THE WHOLE WORLD LOOKS TO YOU AS EMPEROR

OF A GREAT MARITIME NATION AND AS A DISTINGUISHED

MARINE BIOLOGIST TO END THE COMMERCIAL KILLING OF

WHALES.

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

202-337-2332
202-337-2333

 

 




o/nwyifuaw Z4

“yewﬁz, 7. .: vW/wa 3>xuww mm
Ema; cw” ééﬂ WWW/2: 99W
QWMME; you/W, éW/vw;n;¢ W4?

WWI/(7&4 ouwa J» V Wa @2452 w‘
%a\@1%mw+ﬁy%cmf 4V Mxh/Eﬂiv
ﬁiwéy

 




 

two choices for debuts are London
and Washington.”
Mr. Kresger, who is president of

the board’bf‘directdrs of the Cor. .

coran Galleryof Art, is also presi~
'dent of the National Symphony.
Audit was he who was mainly re-
sponsible] ”r rejuvenating the
Symphony? ' bringing Antal Do-
rati to 1Washington‘" as its con-

ductor. When Dorati retires his

baton in 7i 1977, Kreeger has ar~
ranged fer Mstislav 'Rostropovich
to replace him.

Kresger is lithe and lively for his
66 years. ,Part of the reason is the
‘ daily tennis he plays with his wife

on their private court.‘ I '

Kresger ' originally came to
Washington on a one-year leave of
absence from his Newark law ﬁrm.
He and a number of his Harvard
Law School classmates had been
placed in New Deal positions

through one of their professors—.—
Felix Frankfurter.

“Whenl ﬁrst came‘here,” says
Kreeger, “it was said that the best
thing about Washington was that
it was an hour away from New
York by plane.” '

  

d

ROGER ,
STEVENS

Prior to 1971 there were many who
referred to Washington as a
cultural desert. While not exactly
the case—~after all, there were. the
art museums, the National Sym-
phony, and the extraordinary
Arena Stage repertory under the
direction of the brilliant Zelda
Fichandleru-the Washington cul-
tural scene did not really begin to
blossom until the fall of 1971.
That’s when the John F. Kennedy
Center for the Performing Arts--
with its Eisenhower Theater,
Opera House, and Concert Hall—-
opened its doors. The man respon-
sible for'the Center’s birth was
Roger L. Stevens, its chairman of
the board, who 10 years before had
been tapped by President Kennedy
to head the National Cultural
Center. When he was called to
Washington, Stevens had already
built a reputation—and a fortune
——as one of the nation’s leading
real estate developers. Among vari-

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

ww wMWWu-A 4*

ans things, he formed a. syndicate
that ﬁrst bought and later sold-—
for $52 million—the Empire State
Building. He also had produced
or, co—produced more than 125 plays
on “Broadway. In sum, .Stevens

was one of the best promoters in
America. And that’s precisely what
the Washington cultural scene
needed.

As we sit in the livingroom of his
Georgetown residence, Roger L.
Stevens talks about the Washing
ton theatergoing audience that he
was so largely responsible for cre-
sting: “I can tell you' the actors
feel that the'Washington audience
is much better than New York's.
In 'Washington you don’t have to
have a big smash hit or a big star
to draw a crowd.” ‘

And he knows whereof he speaks.
After all, among his 125 Broadway
shows were such smashes as West

Side Story, Cat on a Hot Tin Roof,

Mary, Mary, 'Bus Stop, The Best
Man, Tea and Sympathy.

Stevens did not graduate from
college. The son of a 'well-to-do
real- estate developer who lost all
his inoney just before. the Depres-
sion, he was headed for Harvard
after completing Choate. But the
lack of funds brought him home to
the ‘University of rMichigan. He
lasted for one year before quitting
out of boredom and educated him-
self by reading voraciously in pub-
lic libraries. Eventually, Stevens
made his own millions in real es-
tate, getting involved with prepcr-
"ties in' San Francisco, Seattle,
Detroit, Kansas City, Philadelphia,
and Boston. He was also instru-
mental in deveIOpiug 'oﬂices and
apartments in D.C.~’s Southwest
quadrant. I ,

Stevens moved into. theatrical
production because he found the
business conversations of real
estate boring. Following some spec-
tacular successes that rivaled his

real' estate accomplishments, he

wassumnioned to Washington by
President Kennedy to 'raise the
.money to build a national center
for the performing arts. “I thought
it would be three or four years and.
then I’d be out of here',”’ says
Stevens. But he had "to ﬁght pro-
longed battles singlehandedly over
the center’s location, architecture,
and dimensions with Congress-
men' of both parties, local critics,
and potential contributors. His
persistence paid off. And Roger
Stevens had yet another smashing
success to his credit.

In the 1973-74 season the Ken—
nedy Center grossed $10 million.
And it has helped boost interest in
and attendance at other Washing-

 

.WHERE THEPauERPEomsLWELOVEMRK WDPLAY

' '(Continued from page 89)

 

*w.w.... .--”WW- .4..-

ton playhouses. Since 1971, when
the Center Opened, gross receipts
for Washington’s theatres have in-
creased ﬁvefold. Now international
companies and artists often ~kick
oﬂ’ their U.S. tours in Washington
rather -than New York. Even
American movie producers are de-
buting their ﬁlms in the capital
these days. W"

As ﬁrst chairman of the National
Council on the Arts, Stevens ini-
tiated the move to bring the
Hirsthrn Museum to Washington.
“That was another tough battle,”
he says. “Nelson Rockefeller and
others were after the Hirshhorn"
(seeking‘the collection for museums
in New York).

When all is said and done Roger
Stevens may be the Number One
lobbyist in a city of thousands. But
he’s not registered. His wife Chris-
tine is, however. Mrs. ,Stevens is

founder of the Animﬁl ' Welfare
Insggugg” possibly the most e co.
tive bodyin the country in the ﬁeld

of legislation for protection and
preservation of animals.

.....

0"
O

.0
'1.on

  
 
 

- o

0"!”
a

r...

"0

   

O
6‘
as

 
   
 
 

‘
O
O..‘
O..‘
a» -’

BUCHWALD

 

For ﬁfteen years Art Buchwald
has been ﬁling his columns, now
syndicated in more than 500
newspapers, from the nation’s
capital-40 the delight of' millions
of readers around the world. There
are those, however, who do not
appreciate Art Buchwald. Samples
of some of the hate mail the
pol-itiea‘l'satirist receives hang in
his outer oﬂice. Earlier in, his
career Buchwald was based in
Paris. The editors of the New York
Herald Tribune decided to transfer
him tailliashington in 1961. This
was before President Kennedy
had canceled the White House
subscription to the pa'per. But the
transfer decision was not made
public until after the President's
action. Drew Pearson, wrote a
column claiming that the Trib was
bringing Buchwald to ll’ashington
to get even with Kennedy. “It was
a better excuse than I had for
coming to Washington," says
Buchwald, “so I never denied it.”

  
   
  

 
 
  
 

Town & Country

The scene is the ofﬁce of the Washj
ington columnist. A blood-hank jar
rests among a row of books, not far

from a can of Spalding tennis
balls. There is a picture of Artur
Ru‘binstein taking notes as Buch—
wald plays theéQiano. A poster with
the columnist, dressed as Uncle
Sam and smoking his ever present
cigar, looks down from one wall.
with the question “Have I ever lied
to you?” A metallic hand sits on
his desk, thrust forward as if to
warn visitors to go no farther.

A secretary struggles with a
chair that she and the columnist
are trying to assemble—~he, from a
supine position on the ﬂoor. The
phone rings. The secretary an-
swers. “Just one moment. please,”
she says, passing the phone to her
boss. Never changing position, Art
Buchwald accepts the receiver and
engages in a phone conversation
with Ethel Kennedy. The whole
scene, of course, is pure Buchwald.

Buchwald loves writing. And
he has been writing with spec-
tacular success and effect for a
total of 24 years, three times a
week. Out of all those columns he.
has his favorites. When it became
known that Lyndon Johnson had
never invited the late FBI director
J. Edgar Hoover to the 'White
House, Buchwald wrote that there
was no J. Edgar Hoovergtl'i..n:o -
was actually a creation of-t
Reader’s Digest.

“A lot of people took the colui.
seriously,” says Buchwald betng
cigar puffs and chortles. “Raider
Digest, the FBI, "editors of
papers that carry the column, aid
I were deluged with mail. I unde‘Q
stand Hoover was just furious”!

At the time of the Pakistan!
India War, when the U.S. leaned.
toward Pakistan-much to the con--
sternation of India, Buchwald
wrote-—again with tongue deeply
embedded in cheek—that the Dis- .
trict of Columbia’s garbage col-y
lectors were refusing to pick up
the refuse of the Indian Ambas‘
sador to the U.S. Because of this
column, when Prime Minister
Indira Gandhi pleaded in the
Indian Parliament for better rela-
tions with the, U.S., an opposition
member leaped to his feet. waved
Buchwald’s article and asked how
the Prime Minister could possibly
speak of reconciliation while the
Indian Ambassador was receiving
such shabby treatment.

Buchwald's column is carried by
the Soviet press as part of its
efforts to expose the evils of the
capitalist society that the Ameri-
can journalist so frequentlysati.
rizes; Indeed, Buchwald is so well
known in the Soviet Union that :
when the Soviet poet Yevgeni '

 

  

 
   

  

  
 
 
 
 

 
 
 

    
 




 

His Excellency
Takeshi Yasukawa
Ambassador oT Japan

Dear Mr. Ambassador:

We wish To bring To your immediaTe aTTenTion The deep concern wiTh
which our organizaTions view The Torihcoming meeTing of The lnTernaTional
Whaling Commission aT which your governmenT will be playing a viTal role.
We appeal To you To reevaluaTe your previous objecTions To The iO~year mor-

aTorium on commercial whaling.

We are addressing you on behalT of our membership of 4,33i,923
privaTe ciTizens ThroughouT The world. Our organizaTions are dedicaTed To
The proTecTion of The environmenT, and many of us were represenTed aT The
UniTed NaTions STockholm Conference on The Human EnvironmenT, which over-
whelmingly called, ”as a maTTer of urgency", for The iO—year moraTorium.
ln The subsequenT Two meeTings of The lWC, your governmenT blocked all pro-
gress Toward implemenTing The will of The oTher member naTions, and, lasT
year, refused To abide by even modesT conservaTion measures agreed upon by
The Commission.

The failure oT your governmenT To reconsider iTs acTions despiTe
sTrong worldwide proTesT led us To conclude ThaT drasTic economic pressure
was our only recourse.

All our organizaTions, Therefore, have called upon Their members
and The public To join in an economic boycoTT of Japan and The SovieT Union.
As organizaTions based in The UniTed STaTes, we have also supporTed efforTs
on The parT of our governmenT To invoke economic sancTions againsT These Two
counTries.

The posTure of your governmenT aT nexT week's meeTing of The lWC
will deTermine our TuTure course of aCTion. A posiTive and consTrucTive con-
TribuTion from your delegaTion Toward The developmenT of a sound program To
ensure The proTecTion of all whale species could bring To an end This regreT—
Table siTuaTion.

We are unanimous in our agreemenT ThaT an imporTanT eiemenT in such
a program is The lO—year-moraTorium. Should your oovernmenT conTinue To ob—
sTrucT The efforT To guaranTee The proTecTion of whales, we will have liTTle
choice buT To conTinue and expand economic pressure.

We ask you, Therefore, To convey To your QovernmenT our sober commiT~
menT To The preservaTion of whales and To The success of The lWC meeTing. Re-
sponsible acTion on The parT of your governmenT is essenTial, boTh To The pre—
servaTion Of This unique planeTary resource wiTh which you and oTher member
naTions of The Commission have been enTrusTed, and To The mainTenance of inTer-
naTional environmenTal cooperaTion.

 




             
  
 
     
    
  
    

“I“

 

I ,

I .. .I . I
I. . 3 ..I v \ > .
u .5 ‘ « I , I '. I I 1

'r .I x m‘ If .- I "r' u . _' . - '

x wad I ‘”“5.. ~va . , , .-

A I’
.‘~ “a”!

       

. , ', I . . ‘
a." x 7,.“ 5 ,4 ‘. I a
4 ‘i ‘: o F c
" h} i: 2 I, ,
I : é '. .51 ‘-
,I I .. .. ,5 s 5 ‘1 1’ AI ,w
. } I » . -; ’1 -,
. ' .“~ ,5! ’ ‘3; . ‘ w, r_ , ft h a . "‘ . V
[V I! . II - , ( .1 1x“ r”! I. .' /_ v , ,2 “:4 I. I: a a _ I ,
‘ l / ’ . , ‘ ' "1-1 ~» ' A: ‘_ _. .
II I ‘ l . ‘ . . ‘ , ,- L I ,3 _5L 4 . u . k _ I ‘ I _
I \
:' I . ‘ ’ 3 1 I . ’ ' * r ‘ '
x r _ Wm , . I I .. . .
1
_ — ' " s
‘ \ ( ‘ ’ ' 2 y)
r E . . I y A L ) {J 1 I) | \ A ) A 1 . {1 ' r - x
. . s' ‘ : J I . .
| I. c ‘, .
‘ t
I ‘ ~ ?‘ ' ‘
‘ \ l
. . I
l I ‘ L

 

E
I

\ ﬂ ”/3 K II
:5 I. “It; . -
1' '3 / 5:21, If}? ,, , __, _..,

‘ f,
5 ’ "a‘ .1 ,/ _ _I_ "V _, __..._ “u-..
i’ 1' ﬁxﬁyﬂﬁw" 0 ,_. ﬁlm” w- 'I“""'“'——'

     

     

a I . , . I l ( x ,
“' 9 a ~I-‘r3 =ra> 0' N“ ‘
, w p . y"\ r‘ , \‘ . I
_ ( . ? ~ 1 '\ g H J 1 ' ‘ *
» < ‘ ﬂ — ‘ I § '. . / !
‘ ' 1 “AI E I . _
. I! . ‘3
3 n A
I I ‘ I ,
A 3 < - '5 t"
I. Z I F -. ’
\ v ’ . 3 ' ' ’7 ,
‘ | ' “I“ '
I. K. I , I!“
//' 145‘
/"f3/"’I. 1L"h’.- '- ,{J’ "
«M, I , € «(3, "r?“
v .. ..
_ 6‘ 4.3 / MM" ‘ra"
_‘ I/f .. — u---» -__’ ,, _-
t A‘-,-
. , _ ﬂ ,- v
r; I ./ -4 .__ H- ..
w I I
' ( I a! . V‘ /I
,1 , ‘ o I ,‘ A,” 5.1: II x
I ' "q , ..( f ,1. “I w I." ,
v " _: - I m— . \I ‘
9 -‘ " , n " ' ‘1’ . - ' -\ . (t .7 C I I\
a 1;» » I _ , \ ._,,... \\, ,
{I , “p.11 ‘ v‘.,‘ ‘ !/\ ~.I, I I I .( ‘j tr*'/I“‘ .
4 ; v , .. .
.- \’ l , L I a ‘ .’ I \ .
l , II .~‘
7 II I
. l 4
If
' '~ ‘I. w
. . .
.
- , - .k... ~~:--.._., I
1,, mm _I I“

     

'5 l "‘ "ﬁn-3’; ,3
x [t i k .u. ‘nﬂwn, “away-n “‘j‘eﬂtﬁhg} '7 A . , , __ ,
" ‘ ‘ _- ,,.- f .‘
ik . \ QI L; \ LA. .. A < , ,. ‘ i ,-. (N I. /\.I{\
,2 ’12”! r 1,, 4 ,5 § . ,I- I \ I I I 1 { , U ‘3 k1 ‘/
a. r’ . l ’ n I .53” , k’" I I . ‘ ,
I, . f 1 .4 l « . . -‘ V _,. l 1 I 1 ,
\ . = r .«e I 5 *~ 13W? x""“é"‘- ‘4.
l .‘ h K‘ 'A 1.. !§ 2 :' ‘IFV‘ "’_. ‘ , l

x
u ..,. .~‘ . -
’5 1 F ’v.,,.1\' ,. ., , _ . 3
‘ .. , . —- \ ‘
‘1. ', _ _ II - ,- ”'5‘“! A?" , . . I ‘

 

(g.
:' ‘. . u«‘ I. ,\ ,"‘~,’.ll l.
v ‘ ‘, 1 [V
0 :ll ~ ‘ v '- j
.
v ' \ ' $‘ ' 33M

.4
33,. at a r’ .. . ’7?
. . ,ﬁ' .I, II/ .I 1,4; I,.___‘.._-W..~—»~I-~
; ﬂ ‘5' st‘iwﬂ x-mﬂr Y: I __,. I ,,“I.-.ﬂ-:.nII _
,r: ,4"? ” j 2 5‘" "WWI M”; 1 . We» '\ WOW
‘ 3 " A!” W , m , ,; i p ' up ﬁt)“ 1 Min.) ' '. « i ’ L, 10']
. .I - " ". I_‘. 1“ I,’ \’.' 2 ‘ I II . Z l‘fj'll I .L) I <. ‘ . _ 1

far fin “1'1ng I, 1

W“ n P’ 4” 2’ ”a I”; bﬁd”ﬁﬂ?ﬂr¢l~
A? 1/," 4/ ‘3” Wm

        

2"; "'
v, ; I
'1 L 3’5“in ‘3 , .;
MW, - : _ r . .
‘ I ‘ . ‘ x
32 ~ / w“
R; I_ 4a-“-.a—

I ‘ {7 > “‘1'! 1 §
4. ' ' 5 an" ~19» r». MW‘ --I~--—I~-‘“f‘ g . n
mﬁk~ WWMMMMI MM-,W+ I_IIM
MW . ‘I, '1"Y€W1‘.“lk ! ‘ ~ , ﬂ‘ﬁ- «; L§Y§Kir‘3‘

'«- , :‘ L/ 3 2"} . 5- a - p ’ ‘ Ame? Eptire

 




,‘ ¥ ,r‘nf‘” .
I u‘ 4 if!) ’1'“):-

4-?

 

,1‘
.

nit"-

Mosquitoes really do cause a. lot of
grief, far beyond their dive brimming
you and the welts they raise and
the itching they cause.

We all know they carry i'nalz-u‘ia to
humans in tropical areas. They car-
ry heartworm to dogs in any area.
They also carry sleeping sickness,
which can atta Tk humans as well
as horses. There have been reports
of sleeping sickness in Minnesota
this year because the rains have
made ideal conditions torabumper
<..:r(:)p ol'mosquitoes.

ll horse owners have not alr»:-u:ly
taken care, of their horses' sleeping
sickness shots. I strongly urge that
they do so immediately, especially
those who may be traveling to
shows with their horses or trailer-
ing them around the state.

Sleeping sickness, or equine ence—
phaloniyelitis, is caused by a filter-
ahle virus. There are two types that
are of most concern in northern
states. and the vaccines used by
your veterinarit—m c o n ta i n both
strains. The disease can kill, thus
the importance of getting the shots
for your horse. The veterinarian
will give a series of two injections
about a. week or 10 days apart.

The type of sleeping sickness that
broke out in the Southern states is
not yet a problem here. That was
the Venezuelan type, and shots for
that. are. not necessary unless you
plan to travel to the Southern
states with. your horse.

Don't try home remedies if your
horse is sick. Call your veterinari-
an.

While we are in the area of zoonos-
es (animal diseases that can infect
humans), this might. be the time to
bring to your attention the reasons
for the ban on baby turtles in pet
stores. A release from the Food and

Jet ”

Diane Christianson

up“... ' ——‘~_...;~M —_A__

._ ._L..-._. .._a_ -h'..-» .

Drug Administration states, "Tur-
tles continue to be a significant.
carrier of pathogenic organisms,
particularly affecting small chil-
dren. We have concluded that a
ban of sales is the only action that
will adequately protect. the public
health."

The FDA has estimated that as
many as 280,000 cases of salmonel-
losis each year in the United States
are turtle associated. The organ-
isms are transmitted to children
when they play with pet turtles and
then put their hands in their
mouths without washing them. The
organisms can cause acute gas-
trointestinal infections and even
death.

Turtles are highly susceptible to
contamination from bacteria in
their food and in their water envi-
ronment.

The ban applies to turtles with a
shell length of less than 4. inches. It.
would seem that wild turtles would
also be subject to the same bacteri-
al infections. thus parents might be
well advised to consider these facts
if a child brings home a turtle
caught in the wild.

The Animal Welfare In s t i t u t e
points out that the ”small turtles
sold in pet shops are not miniature,
but baby turtles, mostly red-cared
sliders, which under proper care
can attain a shell length ranging
from 6 to ll inches and can live
more than 40 years in captivity; yet
90 percent of the pets survive only
four to six months."

Diane Christianson will discuss sub~
jects of general interest in this col-
umn. She may be addressed in care
of the Tribune. Shows and exhibi-
tions will be listed if information is
forwarded to Mrs. Christianson four
weeks before the event.

 




.‘4 »: N u“
I". :9,

Animal lab story
by Satchell applauded

Michael Satchell’s revealing arti«
cle on “Man’s Assault on Animal
Kingdom in the Name of sat ncé‘”
(Aug. 6) is so tragic in its stark
truth about the nation’s inhumanity
to animals! No other country is so
callous How a civilized United
States can condone such useless and
wasteful experiments in the name of
scientific research is beyond us and
we thank The Star and Mr Satchell
for their contribution in opening the
eyes of unsuspecting citizens (tax
payers) and lovers of God’s crea-
tures.

We object to this horrible mass of
concentration camps, from govern-
ment labs to high school science
rooms. Our thanks to the numerous
good works of the animal humane
societies. We hope modern technol-
ogy will present alternate methods
of testing to replace the cruel live

experimentation immediately.
' Animal breeders can find some
other means of livelihood than rais-
ing helpless animals for lab purr
poses.

The Star has done a great service
to the animals We hope that some
thing can be done about this us our
Congressional representation, our
technologists. humane societies,
private citizens, the press »-- all of
us can tryto stop this ungodly prac-
tice.

Edward and Anastasia Soter
Wheaton, Md.

>i¢ >i= '4: *

The Star is to be commended for
Michael Satchell’s article. Scien~
tists, justifiably proud of a long
tradition of professional integrity
and objectivity, are more and more
being called upon by the public
to cultivate and to act upon a sense
of social and humane responsibility.

That the National Academy of
Sciences intends to sponsor a sym-
posium of humane groups and medi-
cal researchers to discuss the sub-
ject of laboratory animals and
possible alternatives to animal ex-
perimentation is one of the
indications that the scientific world
is beginning to respond to the public
call. I hope you will furnish detailed
coverage of the symposium when it
convenes in October.

Marjorie A. Shepard
Alexandria, Va.

I do not think animals should suf~
fer for man’s benefit, especially
since animals did nothing wrong. I
think instead of using animals, we
should use people -—- murderers... In~
stead of giving murderers “life” or
. the “gas chamber,” we should have
special cells, and whenever scieno
tists want something to use in ex-
periments. they could just send for
a “murderer” instead of a poor,
harmless animal that did nothing to
harm anyone.

Sigrun Sharp,

Age 1:
Washngon, D.C.

* 3k 5|: $

Your front page article about
scientific research on animals and
other lower creatures was both re-
vealing and extensive. But I don’t
recall that you ran any such lengthy
story when HEW lifted its ban on
human fetal research.

Are you trying to demonstrate
something?

Robert J. Marquette
Oxon Hill, Md.

 




' Man ’8 Assault on Animal Kingdom in the Name of Science -

By Michael satchell

Washington Star Staff Writer

The easy way is to consider first
the rats and mice, thousands of
anonymous creatures scientifically
raised in a long sterile room, rodents
without appeal, personality or identi-
ty. Or maybe the swine, ugly, grunt-
ing, gray beasts who spend their ab~
breviated lives in this partic’ular
example slopping stomach-churning
combinations of beef tallow, lard and
cottonseed oil in tiled rooms, gorging
their way to heart disease in the
service of man.

The hard way is to consider the
foxhound puppies, about 1,000 of
them raised annually in a particular

1

government animal facility at P00-
lesville, Md., progeny of 164 breeding
bitches and 10 stud males, gamboling.
in their pens, eager, inquisitive,
friendly, with liquid brown eyes and
doleful expressions. The perfect
child’s pet.

‘ Or the rhesus monkeys, newborn
babies clinging to the mothers, be-
wildered at the swift transition from
a treetop existence in India to a
small, stainless steel cage in a
cream-colored, fluorescent-lit room
with a bowl of Purina Monkey Chow
clipped to the cage and a very uncer-
tain future.

Coming to grips with laboratory
animals can be difficult.

‘I

 

200,000 dogs and 75,000 cats used in experiments

 

Last year, something like 42 mil-
lion rats and mice, 200,000 dogs -—
about half of them commercially
bred beagles and foxhounds —- 75,000
cats and 55,000 primates died or were
well on the way to it in laboratory ex-
periments.

ACCOMPANYING THEM were
large numbers of the lower orders:
several billion insects, a million or so
guinea pigs, hamsters and gerbils;
several hundred thousand birds, like
numbers of fish and amphibians, plus

.. Am , .. .., use , 3:.1 .‘~ oj‘ “a" . . . ... ..
' ”i“ 3% :.. ‘ - ' 7!" \=-«.~,,.v.-t'-1~l% lief-5350‘ .S ‘1» . '- ~ '~

assorted schools, herds, ﬂocks, cold
nies and swarms of creatures that
fly, swim, crawl, burrow, walk, run,
gallop or simply exist.

They were subjected to an incred-
ible array of tests, experiments and
studies. By medical researchers aim-
ing to prolong and improve human
life and health. By military research-
ers seeking just the Opposite. By
business and industry marketing new
or improved products. By universi-
ties seeking basic knowledge. And by

high schoolers learning the rudi-
ments of scientific inquiry.

To benefit man, they were injected
with poisons, infected with diseases
and riddled with radiation. They
were subjected to virtually all types
of injury, accident and adverse
physical condition. They were blind-
ed, scalded, burned, bled, gassed,
starved, shot at and dissected. They

were forced to smoke cigarettes, guz- '

zle booze, mainline heroin, breath
noxmus fumes, eat and drink indus-
trial chemicals.

< Those who believe that the use of
animals to benefit man is perfectly
justified -- and that probably in-
cludes close to 100 percent of the

American. population -— see the - '
philos0phical question in the simplest "
of terms. Isn‘t it better that a man- »-
key, a dog, a rat should suffer and '
die rather than a human? *
And the enormous advances in
medicine derived from animal ex- 1
periments over the past century are .
undeniable. Without animals, con- -
tends Dr. Harry Kingman, director of '
the National Society For Medical Re- -
search, “we would be back in darkest -
Africa, no doubt about it.” And even
the staunchest of‘antivivisection ;
leaders in the United States, like
Eleanor Seiling, head of United Ac~
tion For Animals, will avoid a direct

See ANiMALs. A-iz
‘ r

'n

 




 

. ;_. f . was» .. .

y' .

13:1: “3° Washingtonian

:1- +L+ ease-2:45.92“;Lisa-.5511; an .7-

Wednesday, August 6, 1975

2-". ”IV" «we?

 

 

‘ANIMALS

Continued From A- 1

answer when asked “Do you

unequivocally reject the use

of animals
’ research?”

 

GIVEN THE INEVITA--

BILITY of continued ani-

malresearch, the antivivi-

sectionists and the animal

welfare groups are never-

theless posing some hard

questions for the research-
. ers and seeking same
. practical goals. '

They want more efforts 'to
develop alternate methods
of testing ,and experiment-
ing, things that will replace
live animals. They want
more safeguards to ensure
that the animals will not

suffer needless pain and.

cruelty. They seek better
’physical care and treat-

ment and an end to such

long entrenched practices

as the standard ‘fLD/SO”

tests in which 50 percent of
. the animals must die. And
they want some sort of con-
trol mechanism established
to determine how much of
the research is unnecessary
and repetitive.

“For too long, scientists
have enjoyed the luxury of
doing their thing behind
closed doors and most
often, they are doing it with
public monies,” John A.
Hoyt, president of the Hu-
mane Society of the United
States, wrote recently

“Neither their objectives

or their techniques has
had to stand the test of pub-
lic scrutiny. Consequently,
“only rarely are they requir-
ed to apply to their work
ethical and moral standards
other than their own. And it
can hardly be expected that
their subjects «— most often
animals —— can offer a very
effective protest.” _

The watchdog groups
also believe that the huge
animal importing and
breeding industry that has
grown in recent years pros
motes the continuing use of
animals in laboratories and
tries to retard attempts at
finding alternate methods
of research that would cut
into its profits ——— methods
such as mathematical and
mechanical models,'com-
puters, tissue cultures,
donated human organs and
Various sophisticated ma-
chines.

Researchers state flatly
that the technology to re—
place live animals simply

1311 t available, and those

. Who’ claim it is «are naive

and uninformed

The groups also are
focusing on the widespread
use of animals in high
schools, particularly in
science fair experiments.
‘The state of California,
reacting in part to some
well-documented cases of
cruelty at this level, has
banned the use of live verte-
brates in high school class-
rooms, and several bills
have been introduced in
past sessions of Congress
aimed at a nationwide ban.

Among the cases cited by
the animal welfare groups
- are a girl who won a free
‘ trip to Washington and $250
from the National Science
Foundaton after blinding-
. sparrows and then starving
them to death, and an 18.»
year-old boy who took first
prize at' the Mississippi
State Science Fair after im-
. planting electrodes in the
brains of squirrel monkeys:
The boy’s surgical attempts-
were clumsy at best, and

 
 
 
 
  
 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 
 
 

 

 
 

 

 
 
 

 

 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
  
 
 
 

 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

 

in medical" . ,
1 ' are put 1n the United States

' animal welfare investiga- '

~ tors‘ found one of the ani-
mals on exhibit dying with
pus seeping out of holes in
its head.

’ Compared to several
European countries, the use
to‘ which laboratory animals

is largely unregulated, “a
situation that major nation-
al groups like United Action
for Animals and the Animal

Welfare, Institute would'

dearly love to change.

GREAT BRITAIN, for
example, has had laws on
the books since 1876 govern-
ing the use of lab animals
and those involved in‘this
work are strictly licensed,
regulated, inspected and re-’
viewed by the government.

Researchers in the United ‘

States, by camparision,
have fought regulation
every inch of the way. The
United States today has, a
lightly enforced Animal
Welfare Act governing h1'1'-
mane care and relies most-
ly on peer review to prevent
suffering and assure that
the experiments are scien-
tifically valid and neces-
sary. ,

Until Congress passed the
Animal Welfare Act in 1966,
laboratory animals had no
legal safeguards. The act,
which the research inter-
ests opposed strongly, sets
minimum care standards in
the breeding, transporting
and heusing of animals and
calls for the use of pain-kill-
ing drugs during experi—
ments, except when such
drugs would interfere wit-h
the results of the study.

The legislation, strength-
ened in 1970, came about
only after proponents had
documented vividly the
abuses of “petnaping” by
some of the. unscrupulous
animal suppliers and the
abominable conditions in
which dealers and some
laboratories housed the ani—
mals.

“It was a tremendous
fight and it took us six
years to get the act," re-
called Christine Stevens,
president of the Animal
Welfare Institute and a re«
spected leader of the na—
tional animal-care move-
ment. “I think the act has
made substantial improve—
ments and eliminated many
of the extreme abuses -_- it’s
driven a lot of the marginal
and unscrupulous animal
dealers out of business and
forced them to improve
their standards. But poor

conditions rem ain. They

have nowhere near enough
money or people to enforce
it properly.”

Stevens insisted that her
organization is not antivivi-
sectionist. “We are not
trying to save the lives of
these animals, because
most are bred specifically
for use in laboratories,”she
said. “But we say absolute-
ly that there should be no
pain or suffering by the ani-
mals, and we feel there is a
lot of this happening despite
the act. Our studies show
that after-care, the use of
pain-killing analgesics after
experiments, is often poor
because it’s expensive,”
she continued.

“I think a great deal of

unnecessary experiments

are done with animals, par-
ticularly inbasic research
and behavioural studies
that can be quite painful.
and cruel. I recall my fa-
ther, who was head‘ of
physiology at the Universi-
ty of Michigan, telling me
that he thought 50 percent
of the animal experiments
were a waste of time.”

The Animal Welfare Act,
while improving conditions,
still has a long way to go be:
fore it satisfies the humane
groups, ‘the researchers
themselves (who feel the
government should have
paid for much of costly imo
provements that the act re-
quired) and even the U S.
Department of Agriculture
which enforces it.

Dr. Dale F. Schwinda-_
man, senior veterinarian on
the USDA branch that en-
forces the act, agreed that
his staff was spread too
thinly for truly effective
policing of the nation’s 5,133
animal dealers, 1,097 regis-
tered exhibitors and rough—
ly 2,200 separate research
laboratories. “We visit
them twice a year at most,
because we don’t have the
staff or the budget,” he
said. ..“Our enforcement
budget comes to lessthan $2
million a year. But overall,
I really believe that the labs
do a good job. That pain is
kept to a minimum.”

A MAJOR LOOPHOL‘E in
the act, as the animal.
groups see it, is the fact

 

 

cannula!!! ‘
In the A&P ad Sunday
August 3rd 1n the Wash
in ton Star turkeys were
a3vertised as being
fresh, they should have
been advertised as.

We regret this error and
any inconvenience we
may have Caused our
customers.

‘AﬁiP

 

 

that government institu-
. tions such as the National .
Institutes of Health, the na-‘
tion’ 5 veterans hospitals,
and more particularly the
military, are not inspected
but are trusted to maintain
minimum care standards on
a sort of honor system. And
in the case of the military, "
the skepticism runs deep.

For example, the use of,
hundreds of beagles in ,
. chemical-biological warfare
experiments at the Army’s
Edgewood Arsenal near
Baltimore touched off a
furor last year that contin-
ues today. The outcry
prompted Congress to
prohibit the use of the dogs
in such tests. The Army
says it halted that program,
although last May it admit-
ted using 450 beagles in ex-

'- periments to test riot- -con-

trol devices and chemical-
disposal methods.

Following continued pub-
lic pressure, the Army
recently allowed the US.
Humane Society to inspect
its animal housing facili-
' ties, and the society report-
ed they “didn’ t even come
close” to the minimum
standards ordered by the
Animal Welfare Act. The
Army refused to allow the
investigators to see any of
the experiments involving
the beagles.

The upshot laét month
was a hotly worded request

. by Rep. Les Aspin, D-Wis.,

for a General Accounting
Office probe to learn just
what the Army is doing with
its dogs at Edgewood.

Determining how much
animal experimentation is'
unnecessary, repetitive or.
needlessly cruel is probably
impossible because every-
one has different standards.
For the layman, it’s easy to
reconcile experiments in
such areas as cancer re-
search, heart ‘ disease,
organ transplants, infec-
tious diseases or surgical
procedures.

MORE DIFFICULT to
understand are some of the
seemingly unnecessary,
cruel and repetitive experi-
ments published in grue-
some and vivid detail by the
antivivisection groups in
the areas of behavioral
studies and basic research.

Are they simply knowl-
edge for knowledge’s sake.
as the critics claim, or are
they tiny and potentially
significant pieces of the
giant jigsaw puzzle that
may one day lead to cures
for all the ills of man, as the , .
researchers believe. ',

Interviews with key ani-
mal research officials at the
National Institutes for
Health in Bethesda and
with the National Society
for Medical Research,
which lobbies for the unre-
stricted use of lab animals,
indicate that the animal
groups, particularly those
with the more practical and
rational approach to animal
care, are succeeding in
their goals.

“Look, I’m not going to
say there haven’t been
some problems in this field”
said Dr. Robert Whitney,
who runs NIH’s veterinary
resources branch. “There
have been me problems
with high 5310001 kids using
animals. And I would never
say that there haven’t been
times when animals have
suffered needlessly. But it
is nothing like the lunatic
fringe of the antivivisection
groups claim.

“I honestly believe that
suffering and repetitiVe ex-
periments are kept to a
minimum and I think our
peer review methods are
strong enough to prevent
abuses” he said. “The pres-
sure that groups like Chris-
tine Stevens’ people have
brought on us, in retro-’
spect, have been good for
Us People have seen the
handwriting on the wall. If
we don’ t police ourselves,
then somebody will step in
and do it for us. And I think
we’ve responded positively
to these efforts to improve
the care of the animals we
use.’

The most tangible exam-
ple of the increasing coop-
eration between the two
sides will occur in October
when the National Academy
of Sciences will bring to-

'gether representatives of!

humane groups and medical
researchers to explore the
whole question of laborato-
ry animals and alternative
methods of biomedical re-
search. It will be the first
symposium of its kind ever
held, and both sides feel
that the end result can only
be a better deal for both the
knowledge seekers and the .
animals they use. .

   

 

 

tenets

THE UHHUIT '

CONNECTION
' a

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
   
   
   
   
   
    




EY‘EW‘WNE‘SS. FiEPGRTS [Colin Legum inAddis Abaha: TheN-ight They ‘ Hanged” Selassie, p. 5 /
Davad Martin in LourencoMarques: Frelimo Stops the ..

own». 0 ~. '- . . -
M. ,J. , “-i;--ulnavzfzituuw...F _ .'~_ ,- .. " ‘v

 

— Lord Brayiey: A false .
‘ tipaoff about his
activities.

Brayley:
dirty

tricks ,
Victim ?* ,

oy‘ ROBERT carssanE
“and PETER DEE’LEY

.ANATTEMPT six months
agoto discredit Lorrd Bray-
ley.by implicating him in
criiitinal investigations has
raised the possibility that
the Army Minﬁsterﬂa
close friend of Harold
Wilson—could he the vic-
tim of a continuing ‘ dirty
tricks’ campaign.

At that time, onz' the eve
of the February election, in-
formation. given to:- THE 03-
SERVER that Lord .Brayley’s
business affairs were being in-
vestigated and that: a ﬁle had
gone to the Director of Public
Prosecutions was ~famed to be

.False. ' »

Now, Lord Brantley—a sur
nrise Ministerial choice in Mr
EHlson’s administnation—is at
the centre of a .storm'over
payments totalling more than
£300,000 from a chmpany of

which he was formerly
chairman.

‘Nhen we told, Lord Bray-
113237 yesterday OF the allegﬂ'
tions made agriinst him in

 

 

 

THE Royal Society for the
Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals has destroyed
hundreds of thousands, of
unwanted dogs in the past
20 years by a method that
may have caused an untold
number of them intense
and severe pain. Ofﬁcials
of the society admitted
this for the ﬁrst time last
week. "

The method, electrocution
by an apparatus called an
Electrothanator. was ofﬁ-
cially suspended by the
RSPCA four weeks ago. It
IS now planning to reintro-
duce it in a. modiﬁed form.

Standards and procedures
for the humane electrocution
of dogs were laid down by
the British Standards Insti-
tution in 1957 after exhaust-
1V6 research. However, these
standards and procedures
have never been observe-d by
the' RSPCA, nor by any

. _ ,. - . . ~ u R . ‘4.
4...... .l. _ . .. J. in. ..~v- .... -. . x . . 7 ,. A ...._nk~l...p..'z..i4.‘-... .

ash, p- :5

..-. is; L‘_‘..Lr.lu.v.i..‘ ’

by JOHN CLARE

other of the numerous bodies
which electrocute stray or
unwanted dogs. They include
the police, local authorities
and private animal. welfare
societies. such as the Dogs’
Home, Batterseae, which all
use the Electrothanator
apparatus.

Last year the RSPCA elec-
trocuted 43,650 dogs. The
Dogs Home, Batters-ea, elec-
trocuted 10,609. There are
“about 400 Electrothanators
in existence, half of them in
Britain. .

British Standard number
2909 for ‘Cabinets for the
Electrical Euthanasia of
Dogs’ states that following
the procedures it recom-
mends is the ‘only reliable ’
way of telling that a dog has
been humanely destroyed and
that no undue suffering has
occurred. The standard speci-
ﬁes that the dog 'must ﬁrst be

by NORA BELQFF, our Political Correspondent

VLABOUR’S manifesto, to

be published tomorrow,
will give little jOy to the
Socialist fundamentalists
of Tribune or to left-wing
union leaders.

Mr Wilson has been

and risk increasing the
already excessive rigidities in
the country’s deployment of
labour. But the leftists in the
unions, even with Mr Foot’s
support, have not get the
manifesto committee to allow
pickets. to stop lorries enter-

 

stunned by passing an electric
current through its head from.
one ear to the other and that
only when the dog is uncon-
scious should the second and
lethal current he passed
through the dog’s body from
the ears to a. hind leg.

The standard further speci-
ﬁes that the only way of tell—
ing that the dog is uncon-
scious is making sure that it
has had what is called an
electroplectic ﬁt. The ﬁt is
described as : ‘ Hind legs ex-
tended violently; forelegs
stiff; head bent back. Heart
heat and respiration stopped.’
The standard emphasises that
the lethal body current
should never be applied until
the ﬁt has been observed.

It is now known that it was
impossible to follow any one
of these vital procedures
using the Electrothanator ap-
paratus. Although the con-

 

 

 

ANTHONY sense “it’s Farewell to Washington :

The Great American Morality Play, p. ”H

,5. _‘ .y .‘n. {new 94:. ..‘:;r".'.--:»‘.T».". «.1-"5- 4'
‘ «A»... m. :...za.th.-..-_.... A...»..u...u‘£.d;42....£r.:li.:l«txr.‘.;....». .. -... ..

trols are somewhat confus-
ingly labelled to give the im-
pression that the apparatus
delivers an electric current
in. two stages, one marked.
STUN, the other L’Ii-E'lfllAl... in
fact the manufacturers admit
that the second switch is a
duplicate of the ﬁrst and that
hoth pass a. current through
the dog’s head and body simul-‘
taneously.

The effect of this is that
there is often no way of
knowing after the ﬁrst cur-
rent has been passed whether
the dog is unconscious, dead,
or merely paralysed. The
importance of this is that if
the dog is merely paralysed it
will probably be in acute pain
until it dies, which may be up
to half a minute later, or
until a second current is ad-
ministered to put it out of its
misery.

The position has been suc-
cinctly stated by Dr Jean
Vinter in a booklet published

#_L

l

' r-‘A‘. ﬁrst: '--'“v'ﬁ:’;7t'.a.

‘Lm 'y“'..:‘ I ‘- . .1
"v.- :~.’nrl(-.:7rJivtxf‘w‘Arsrs-i-vlw«-.;<?.rw _, ’.

W mow-15.2 . w r ".‘ .«w, Wm“ val .','.‘w ' ,.. ' . :;/-'.>", u ,;
up...» ., .51..“ la - 3. M519} 5'. ..r. 6’? Mr :xr ulnl .- .f . um. ‘n'. ,,‘. :‘. 2m" .

The humane killer that causes painmhrochure
for an Electrothanator.

in America by the Animal
Welfare Institute, Called
‘Facts about Furs,’ it is dis-
tributed in Britain by the
RS-FCA. Dr Vinter writes that
electrocution by any method
which does not conform to
British Standard 2909 is
‘ painful’ and ‘ should on no
agcountﬂpe used.’

She goes on: ‘It cannot be
sufficiently emphasised that if

 

electricity is applied wrongly,
an animal may be completely
paralysed so that it cannot
cry out, but it may. at the
same time be in acute pain
and fully conscious, though it
appears to be unconscious.
This is a danger which must
be studiously avoided in all
animals.”

Writing in yesterday’s issue

(Continued on Page 2)

German
colonel’s
sulmde

from COLIN SMITH

RENDSBURG, 14 September
A WEST GERMAN Army
ofﬁcer responsible for the
safety of Kiel Canal cross-
ings during the NATO exer-
cise in which at least ﬁve
British paratroopers were
drowned has been found
hanged at the NATO head-
quarters here.

Ofﬁcials identiﬁed him as
Lieutenant-Colonel Siegfried
V. Mattern, aged 55, and said
that one of his duties was to
ensure no shipping moved on
the canal during the para-
troopers’ drop on Wednesday
night. Five bodies have been
recovered from he canal and
a sixth man is missing. '

The parachute of the sixth
missmg man was found in
the canal on Friday afternoon.

 

 

Established 1791

 

 

 

HUGH hiciLWlitNEY ‘ hrian Cicugh and
Leeds: The Predictable Parting, p. 18

from

THE HAGUE, 14 September

THE three Japanese gun-
men holding the French
Ambassador and eight
other hostages at the
French Embassy here to-
day obtained the release
of a Japanese guerrilla
from aParis prison.

They also extorted a pro-
mise of a safe passage out
of Holland.

The Dutch agreed to pro-
vide a KLM crew and a plane
to ﬂy out the three Japanese
with or ﬁhiWout their host-
ages. But the crew refused to
ﬂy if the gunmen had their
guns.

And, unless they had a
death wish, the terrorists
could hardly agree to make
the 20mile journ-ev from The
Hague to Schiph-o-l airport un-
armed.

It now seems that the
Dutch were warned several
days ago by the Japanese
Special Branch that four re-
volutionaries from the Japan-
ese Red Army expelled from
Paris had made Amsterdam
their base. Fri-day evening’s
attack on the embassy seems
to be a retaliation for the
expulsion.

Nobody had a description
of the three revolutionaries,
who seemed to be armed onlv
with pistols and possibly
grenades. The policeman and
‘ police woman shot on Friday
night—both now out of dan-
ger—had only a ﬂeeting
glimpse of their attackers.

Only one of the Japanese
acted as spokesman on the
telephone. A diplomat from
the Egyptian Embassy who
spent many years in Japan
was reported to be acting as
an intermediary.

The nine hostages were the
French Ambassador I. 1

...~.: . initiator " ‘ " "

NEAL ASCHERSON

tion rather htan liberation,
as the comrade who gave
away the names of the Red
Army group in Paris.

The Dutch Government,
with its sharpshooters, police
and Marines deployed
around the silent building,
was hoping that the stategy
of psychological exhaustion
woul eventually break down
the Japanese gunmen’s will
to resist.

Little is known about
Yutaka Furaya. The name
itself may be an alias or may
belong to a different member
of the Red Army. It was
found on one of three false
passoprts in his possession
when he was detained after
stepping off 2a plane from
Beirut on 26 July. In the
false bottom of his attache
case, police found 10,000 d'ol-
lars in forged 100-dollar
bills.

The young man, who said
his name was not Furaya,
claimed to be a member of
the Japanese Red Army
which carried out the mur-
derous attack on Israel’s ond
1' 'irnort in May, 1972.

He was carrying coded
instructions to members of
the terrorist underground
launching a kidnapping cam-
paign against Japanese am-
bassadors and businessmen in
Western Europe who were to
be ransomed for the release
of terrorist colleagues held ,
in Japanese jails and for.“
large sums of money to ﬁn-
ance the Red Army’s opera-
tions.

The siezure of Furaya led
to the arrest of a dozen Red
Army members in France.
Four leaders of the ring were
expelled from the country,
among them a 34-year-old
woman, Mariko Tamaoto, be-

_ ‘. .-‘O-‘I a-l-E

 




' "TH E 0 B'S’E R V‘E R ,'

15 SEPTEMBER 1974'

 

 

.133

_ from WALTER SCHW‘ARZ: New Delhi, 14 Sept .

NEW DELHI, 14 September

A MAJOR famine is build.

ing up in India. Harrow-
ing symptons are being
reported from almost all
the nothern states : starva-
tion deaths, mass migration
.from parched villages, the
distress sale of trinkets,
cattle and even of children.
A combination of dead in
some areas and drought in
many Others, and an unprece-
dented shOrtage of fertilisers,
electricity and diesel. fuel for
running irrigation pumps is
threatening to cut the normal
printer rice crop by 10'million
tens, 0r.15 per cent.

If there is no substantial
and widespread rain in the
coming week the grain short-
age is expected to be as acute
as in the famine years of 1965
and 1966. ,

But in those years huge
surpluses of American wheat
were available as virtual gifts.
This year, after a drought in
the United States and poor
conditions throughout Asia,
no such surplus exists,

" LaSt March, in a report that
shocked Indians, the World
Bank predicted the need for
grain imports at two million
«tons a year over the next ﬁve
years. But it is now feared
that imports this year will
have to be as high as 10 mil-
lion tons to keep the public
distribution system for the
poor from drying up.

, The system is ' already
threatened with breakdown
ecause inﬂation has discour-
aged farmers from selling
grain ,to the Government at
controlled prices. So almost
all the requirements of the
‘fair price shops’ will have
to be met from abroad.

The Soviet Union is being
asked for a new ‘loan ’ of one
01‘ two million tons of wheat,
and the Government is be-
lieved. to be negotiating in
the inﬂated international

 
 

  
 

    

market for the, import of
four million tons. ,

An appeal to the Ameri-
cans to supply the rest, or
ﬁnance its purchase in sur-
plus areas, is expected when
Dr Kissinger, the Secretary
of State comes here next
month.

The worst affected areas
so far are West Bengal, Bihar
and Uttar Pradesh, all of
which have had both ﬂoods

.and drought, Ogrissa, which

had the worst drought for 30
years and has written off 70

.per cent of its rice crop, and

Rajasthan.. .

Worst hit are the landless
labourers and marginal far-
mers, who can, no longer
afford to buy food at inflated
prices and for whom the
ration supply is at best ﬁtful.
In the continuing drought,
and in the aftermath of
ﬂoods, there is no agricultu-
ral work.

Today’s agency dispatch
by the United News of India,
typical of many reports in re-
cent weeks, says of villages
in West Bengal : ‘ Except for
three rickety children and
four sick and inﬁrm women
there was nobody in Baghety
Village, where nine people
died of starvation recently.
Mrs Mangi Bawri said she
had been without food for
the past ﬁve days. The child-
ren were seen eating some
creepers. .

‘From the beginning of
June till 7 September at least
17 starvatiOn deaths were re-
ported from villages ‘ near
Bariora. A resident of one
village said he had not had
a full meal of rice for two
years.

‘He showed one 50 paisa

and two 25 paisa coins as his '

previous day’s earmngs. Rice
sells at three rupees 50 paisa
a kilo and flour at two- rupees
60 paisa.’ In many villages
people were eating roots and
leaves.

 

 

President Tito

Tito acts
to crush
plot }

by LAJOS’ LEDERER

PRESIDENT TITO, con-
fronted with the discovery of
an alleged pro-Soviet under-
ground movement in various
republics of Yugoslavia, is
personally directing action to
crush ‘the dangerous con-
spiracy.’ It seems certain to
damage Tito’s rapprochement
with Russia established two
years ago.

Tito revealed last week that
‘Stalinist and Cominformist
elements’ had beenarrested
early this summer accused of
founding. a clandestine Com-
munist Party and electing
leaders. at an , underground
Party Congress. Pressure
from his Army generals led
Tito to disclose that the group
of conspirators, now on secret
trial in Monte-negro (southern
Yugoslavia), had support
fro-m an ‘ outside Power,’
apparently the Soviet Union.

Sources close to Tito claim
that, before revealing the
existence of the plot, he had
tried unsuccessfully to per-
suade the Soviet leaders to
stop supporting the conspira-
tors.

Arab oil fund

Arab oil Ministers signed an
agreement in Vienna yesterday
to set up a £450 million fund for
industrial development in the
Arab world.’———Reuter.

 

  
  

 

FIX

 

BRANCH
ED IT

 

 

  

 

 

(Continued from Page . 1)

of the Veterinary Record, Dr
T. D. M. Roberts, a physiolo-
gist at Glasgow University,
who did much of the research
leading to the establishment
of British Standard 2909,
says : ‘ There is no way of pre-
dicting the distribution of cur-
rent in a three-terminal sys-
tem involving so complex an
arrangement , of unknown
electrical impedances as that
presented by, an animal’s
body. ‘

‘ Consequently (in the Elec~
trothanator) there is no way
of being sure that enough cur-
rent passes transversely
through the brain to make the
animal unconscious. Mean.-
while, regardless of whether
or not the animal is stunned,
lethal current is passed
through the body. . . . There is
a veryreal risk that animals
may be being killed in this
cabinet by the application of
extremely painful shocks.’

Not the least surprising of
the many confusing details to
emerge from my investigation
is the fact that from 1957 until
January this year every lead—
ing authority on the subject,
with the exception of the
manufacturers of the Electro-
thanator, believed that the ap-
paratus did conform to British
Standard 2909. The British
Veterinary Association
thought so and so did the
RSPCA and the Universities
Federation for. Animal Wel-
fare.

This enabled the ﬁrm,
Electrothanaztors Ltd, to
claim in its publicity material
that the apparatus was ‘ un-
reservedly recommended ’ by
these three bodies. In fact
what they recommended-—
and they did so in'print re-
peatedly—was an apparatus
that they thought conformed
to the British Standard, an
apparatus that has never
existed.

Electrothanators Ltd ' is
run by two men, Mr Denis
McGrath, the managing
director, and Mr Melvyn
Driver, the engineer. Mr
McGrath said he had never
claimed that the apparatus
accorded with the British

Standard and he could not
understand how anyone could
have ever thought it did. He
said he had never applied for
British Stan-dard’s approval
because he would have had
to pay an annual inspection

' an

2—.

  

. why, after British
2909 was published

Electrohanator so that the
operatiig switch now had to
be mov d from a new position
mar-he STUN to a second
positiol marked LETHAL,
Mr Mc "rateh replied: ‘ That
is my Achilles heel.’ He

though-this may have misled

people but he claimed it was
done ‘ simply to ensure" that
the ope” tors passed a second
currentEhrough the dag ‘ to
stop it . itchina.’

Mr McGrath was dismiS-
sive of the British Standard
requirement that the dog
should ﬁrst be stunned and
elohtroplectic ﬁt Wit-
nessed. ‘He said : ‘ Our job ‘15
to kill them not to treat them
for nervous disorders by
giving them electro-convul-
sive therapy.’ Besides, he
added, the operators of the
apparatus disliked witness—
ing the ﬁt.

This is undoubtedly true.
Between June and August
this year most of the '118
Electrothanators operated by
the RSPCA were modiﬁed
to approximate to British
S t a n d a r d requirements.
Society ofﬁcials told me that
use of the machines was
ﬁnally suspended largely be-
cause the operators found
witnessing the ﬁt ‘ upsetting ’
and ‘unacceptable.’

The role of the RSPCA is
another confusing strand of
the Electrothanator story.
The society was told at the
end of January that the
apparatus it had ben using
for electrocuting dogs did
not conform to British Stan-
dard 2909. None the less, in
February the society told the
semi-judicial panel of inquiry
then investigating its affairs
that the Electrothanator did
conform to that standard. It
further assured the panel,
under the chairmanship of
Mr Gerald Sparrow, QC, that
the destruction was a two-
stage process and the dogs
were st- nned before beino
the intrdjrenous injection of S
barbitur te. The RSPCA it-
Self des roys about 40,000
dogs a y ar in this war, But
the sect y estimates that to
destroy Ell]. its dogs by injec-
thl‘l would cost another
£80,000 a year and that it
says, it cannot afford. 3

 

 

  

 

 

he had altered» the .

 

   

This

killed.

When I asked Mrs Joyce
Wright, RSPCA headquarters
veterinary oﬂicer, and Mr
John Douglass, manager of
the clinics and humane
slaughtering department, to
explain this discrepancy,
both said they could not.

Although the society knew
in January that the Electro-
thanator did not conform to
the British Standard, none
the less in a letter to RSPCA
branch secretaries dated 19
April 1974 it quoted the
opinion of the British eterin-
ary Association and of Dr
Phyllis Croft, a consultant
veterinary surgeon, that an
electrocution machine that
did accord with the British
Standard was a humane way
of destroying dogs.

Mrs Wright and Mr Doug:

lass refused to comment on
this beyond saying that the
document was ‘conﬁdential.’

Only on 26 June, under
pressure from two members
of the RSPCA Council, h-‘ilrs

Ruth Harrison and Mr, John '

Bryant, did the society ﬁnally
admit to itself that the Elec-
trothanators it had been Using
for so long were unsatis—
factory. It was decided that
the apparatus should be
modiﬁed.’

The modiﬁcations included,
for the ﬁrst time, the separa-
tion of the stun and lethal
currents; instructions to
operators to observe the elec-
troplecti‘c ﬁt; and, crucially,
the attachment of the third
electrode to the dog’s hind
leg. F‘Or in 1962, in further
violation of the British Stan-
dard, the society had ordered

every machine to be modiﬁed

so that the third electrode
was connected to a wet metal

tray on which the dog Stood-

Dr Croft, who collaborated

' Standard.

‘ destroying

 

dog may be dead or merely paralysed
after having current passe-d through it by the
Electrothanator.

with Dr Roberts on the British
Standard research, told me
that in her opinion the use of
the electriﬁed tray ‘ neces-
sarily causes pain for any-
thing up to two minutes.’ The
reason is that the current,
instead of passing from ears
to hind leg through the heart,
is now dispersed throughout
the dog’s body.

The modiﬁed Electrothana-
tors were used by the RSPCA

from 26 June to 19 August

In the opinion of Dr Roberts,
writing in yesterday’s Veteri-
nary Record, each one of the
hundreds of dogs destroyed
by the society during that
period constituted an experi-
ment under the Cruelty to
Animals Act 1876. Such ex-
periments are illegal without
a Home Ofﬁce licence. The
RSPCA. did not have such a
licence.

The society says it will not
use an Electrothanator again
until it receives British Stan-
dard approval. This could
take up to six months. In. the
meanwhile it is hoping to
train its operators to ‘rise
above’ their unhappiness at
witnessing the electroplectic
ﬁt.

The Dogs Home, Batt-ersea,
where. I witnessed the elec-
trocution of three dogs
last week, has two Electro-
thanators, both of which are
still in use. The ﬁrst delivers
a simultaneous current to
headland heart, the second
has recently been modiﬁed to
approximate to the British
The director,
Colonel Henry Sweeney, said
his committee was convinced
that both machines were en-
tire-1y humane.

An alternative method of
dogs, widely
regarded as humane, is by

 

 

by ROBERT STEPHENS,

 

our Diplomatic Correspondent

THE imminent British elec-
tion overshadowed the
European summit dinner 111
Paris last night.

Mr Wilson was ﬂying to
Paris to join with. the other
eight Heads of Government
of the European Community
in secret informal talks at
the Elysée Palace about the
future of Europe, but none of
the participants expected the
Prime Minister to endorse
any new resounding declara-
tion on European unity, in
View of his electoral situation
and the Labour movement’s
own split over the Comm-on
Market.

But sympathy for Britain’s
dilemmas will not extend far
beyond the election period.
The West German Chancel-
lor, Herr Schmidt, was ex-
pected to warn Mr Wilson
that, if Labour won the elec-
tion, the rest of the Commu-
nit would not be able to wait
in eﬁnitely while Britain
made up its mind whether to
stay in the Common Market
or leave. The West Germans
want Britain to stay in, but
they would look for a clear
decision within a matter of
nine months or a year.

They would hope that, if
the Labour GoVernment
accepted renegotiated terms
and put them to a referen-
dum, it would do so with a
positive recommendation to
the public to vote in favour
of acceptance. The Germans
and others of the Nine fear
that prolonged indecision
over British membership
could have a paralysing effect
on the Community’s urgently
needed efforts toput its house
in order.

No agenda was ﬁxed for the
Paris talks, but the main
questions for discussion we're
the monetary and economic
situation, oil problems, how
to improve the present work-
ing of the Common Market
and how far political co-
operation might lead to some
closer European political
union.

The French would like the

dinner to he the ﬁrst step

«towards a more formal and
carefully prepared summit
meeting to be held before the
end of the year, while they
hold the presidency of the
Community’s Council of Mini-
sters. Such a meeting was
ﬁrst proposed by President
Giscard d’Estaing "in August
‘ to discuss the time-table and
methods of realising the poli-
tical union of .Europe.’ -
Chancellor Schmidt’s main
priority in the summit talks
was to stimulate quick joint
action to deal with immediate
economic problems. He wants
to streamline the decision-
making machinery in the

, Community and generally to

rescue and revive the Euro-

 

pean structure that already

exists, before adding more to
It.

Herr Schmidt has been
critical of the swollen bureau-
cracy of the European Com-
mission in Brussels, and he is
sceptical of the aim ﬁxed by
the last Paris summit of a
European union by 1980.

It was, thought that the
French might revive, at the
summit dinner, their long—
standing proposal for a per-
manent political secretariat
for the European Ministers.
Mr Wilson supports this idea,
provide-d the secretariat is
small, is separate from the
Commission in Brussels, and
deals only with political co-
operation and not with Com-
mon Market economic affairs.

The Labour Government
sees two distinct if inevitably
overlapping Europes : the
Common Market, and the
close political association of
the nine countries making up
the Community. Mr Calla-
ghan, as Foreign Secretary,
has often stressed the advan-
tage he sees for Britain in
joining with its European
partners in seeking an agreed
approach to world problems,
if only to prevent trends
it dislikes, such as anti-
Americanism. The Wilson
Government favours Euro-
pean political co-operation,
whether or not Britain stays
in the Market.

On the other hand, even if
a Labour Government stayed
in the Market, it would not
want tobe involved politically
in a Europe that was moving
in a direction of which it
fundamentally disapproved,
for example into hostility
towards the United States.

But it is doubtful how far
Britain'could still share in
the political intimacy of the
Nine if its withdrew from
the Common Market, es-
pecially if it looked as if one
of its main aims was to be
a watchidog for American
interests .in Europe. .

Tomorrpw the summit
talks will be followedgby a
meeting of the Nine Foreign
Ministers in Paris, at which
they will "scuss the progress
of the Conference on Security
and co-opetration in Europe,
just resumed in Geneva,_,the
Cyprus situation, Portugal
and the ‘ diialogue’ between
the Commutnity and the Arab
States. _ .

, On Tuesday, the Foreign
Ministers meet _ again 7 in
Brussels to discuss Commun-

- ity business, the main topics

being energy,| association with
Greece and trade with Medi-

£50,000 Winner

Last week’s £50,000 Premium
Bond prize ms won by the
holder of bond number
SW 969707. The winner lives in
Ayrshire.

 

 




Why, Who and an 0f Animal ﬁalfara Instituta,

gnd tha Society for Animal Protactive Lagislatinn.

Baatrice R. Williams

Politics 1048
Dr. Paul W. Conner
Rdidnlsa Diahl

 




Table of Contents

animal Welfare Institute and thn Society for Animal
Pretective Legislation are created.

A description of widespread cruelties.

ﬂeet Christine Stevens.
Slaughterhouse conditions.
The Animal Welfare Institute hierarchy

Society for Animal Protective Legislaticn explained.
Activities of Animal Welfare Institute.

My involvement begins.

How Mrs. Stevens functions.

my activities with A.W.I. and S.A.P.L.

Th 3 why and how of the efficiency of these organizations.
Relations with other humane groups.

Accompliehm ante

Ar gas of Failure
Summary

Footnotes

Page 1

Pagﬁ 1-5
3:52353-5
page 5
Page 6
Pages 7-8
pages 8-9
page 10
Pages 10-11
Pages 11-12
pagcs 12-14
Pages 14-15
page 15
page 15

pages 16-18

 




Page 1

"There will come a time when the world will look back to modern vivi-
section in the name of science as they do now to burning at the stake

in the name of religion?, thus spoke Dr. Henry Bigelow, former Harvard

1.
Medical School professor. "Laboratories-are the Dachaus and Buchenwalds

of animals: according to Clare Booth Luce.

It was with feelings similar to these that-Christine and Roger L.
Stevens set out to do something to help experimental animals -----not
to»end experimentation, but to set standards of care and to compel the
use of anesthesia during surgical procedures and analgesics afterwards.
Mr. and Mrs. Stevens offered the American Humane Association $10,000

to assist in relieving the agonies of the laboratory animals. This bold
organization whose seal of approval appears on the credits of many
movies assuring the public that the animals in said film have been well
treated, refused.;'

Thus, in 1951, Animal welfare Institute (A.W.I.) was born -- to inform
and educate the public and to make educational materials available to
institutions. In 1954 the Society for Animal Protective Legislation
(S.A.P.L.) was created to lobby for specific legislation. It is register-
ed under the National Lobby Act, and thus is not tax exempt.

In order to understand the scope of activities of these organizations, it
is necessary to understand the range of cruelties perpetrated daily on a
mass scale across the land. This means the destruction of an amer ican
myth --- that we are kind to animals. For every pampered pet there are
hundreds of suffering creatures, in laboratories, slaughterhouses, and
steid Jaw leghold traps. (And of course, strays.) Our national institut~
ion, the rodeo involves fun and games produced by bucking horses and

bulls, bucking not bee case they are wild, as the audience is led to be-

lieve, but because a bucking strap is mere ile—ssly squeezing the animal's

 




page 2

private parts, causing great pain. (If you'll think back to the pro~
cedure of the cowboy riding the bucking beast, perhaps you'll recall that
after the rider was thrown the animal continued to buck. New if the
animal were bucking to throw the rider, would it not stop once he was no
longer on the creature's back? But no, the animal continues to buck and
rear----until someone loosens the hacking strap.) Little calves come
pellmell out or chutes having had an electric prod shock then in their

private parts. They are then r oped and dragged, often breaking bones,

3
kidneys, etc. in the process, while the A.I.A. ”superviseﬁ.

4
Gntil a federal law was enacted last year, Tennessee Walking Horses most

usually had that peculiar gait because of “coring”, caused by applying
acid to the horses' feet and legs and/or rubbing with chains.

Hot only the American Legion in Harmony 3.6., but the Southeast Idaho
Jackrabbit Association considers it great good sport to round up rabbits
and beat them to death. This barbarian is practiced on government land -
- Atomic Energy Commission land, Wildlife and.Pisheries land, and land
under the jurisdiction of the Land management Bureau, and is defended

5'
as "practical“ by the government.

As for fur bearing animals, or for that matter any creature unfortunate
enough to be caught in a stee1~jaw leghold trap, the teeth out into

the creatureis flesh, usually the leg, so agonizingly that they fre-
quently attempt to gnaw off their own.feet in order to escape. While
held.by the steil-Jaw, the creature is unable to obtain food or water,
or escape from the vial and cold,and is prey for any predator that hap-
pens along.& All this suffering so that women can prove their affluence
by wearing fur c oats. These traps have been illegal in Sngland for
years.

The greatest suffering in terms of numbers of animals occurs in slaughter'

 




page 3

houses (in 1951 to a far greater extent than today) and in laboratories _
-governmsnm (development of c hemical and biological warfare devices,
at Fort Detrick) and commercial (Revlon uses rabbits, for example)

as well as medical.

abuses to ocean mammals made for another large difficult task. Skinning
‘ ?

oaby seals alive, slaughtering whales (U.S. led the movement to step the
killing of these intelligent creatures. Ravager, thh-U.S. Navy contin-

_ i
use to conduct experiments using dolphins, a species of whale, and the

tune industry-continues to drvun hundreds of thousands of dolphins by

continuing to use purse seine nets.) and killing walruses and polar bears

to name a few.

Dr. John Lilly the main researcher using dolphins and porpoises gave
up four years ago because he came to believe that they were too intell-

igent to be kept in "concentration camp-like captivity" where in their

frustration these extraordinary affectionate mammals frequently commit
u
suicide.

Christine Stevens, a member of a remarkablgngggg has made important
contributions in many fieldﬁ to this nation, ind sad to the whole world,
acquired her awareness of and concern for laboratory animals from her
father, Dr. Robert Gesell, head of the Dept. of Physiology at the U. or
Hich. However, success was to come first in improving slaughterhouse
conditions, an area in which.we lagged far behind most of Western WurOpe.
(ParticularlyHorthwestern Europe. France acquired a humane slaughter
law only ten years ago, after Brigitte Bardothade a moving plea on

French TV on behalf of Les Betes d'Abattoirs.)

".
a.

Conditions in slaughterhouse: -—~— animals shackled and hoisted while

fullv conscious, jerked aloft, hooked to an Overhead automatlghlly driven_

 




: page 4

rail. to take them to the slaughter area. Frequently after beung hoist-
ed the head and forelegs strike the floor with great impact and legs and
backs are broken. Pigs are stuck and bled while fully conscious and in
some cases, because sticking is not particularly accurate, the, land in
the scalding vats fully conscious.,3
The animals arrive at the slaughterhouses after being crowded in cattle
cars without access to food and water --the ZBHour Law is hardly humane
when applied to calves and lambs seperated from their mothers from whom
they could nurse at will. In the case of those arriving by truck, not
even the 28 Hour Law protects them, and there have been cases of trucks
’carrying animals from.Plorida to Maine in which.three days elapsed with-
out the animals being;unloaded so they could move and be fed and watered.
Then the wretched creatures are crowded into shackliné:;here in terror
they smell the blood of their fellow creatures and hear their screams,
as the£jtrv desperately to escape the men struggling to {row a heavy

[bl
chain around their back legs.

In some slaughterhouses attempts are made to knock the IhﬁmalSuneon-
scious before slaughter --~ with a sledge hammer. This method is not

always accurate, often eyes are gauged, noses crushed, and/or mouths

smashed while the still conscious beasts dangle in agony;

These conditions prevailed at most slaughterhouses when Mrs. Stevens
formed her organisations and waded into the bloody arena. Now thev are

found in slaughterhouses not covered.by the federal law.‘

Kosher slaughter is part of the problem-~net the ritual itself which is
humane ~~cuttihg the carotid artery which results in loss of consciouness
before pain can be felt. It is the shackling and hoisting of conscious

animals, a result of automation, not of religious ritual, that causes

 




page 5

the pain, yet to read of the hysterical reactions to proposed humane

slaughter legislation one might think that the overhead rail to which

the animals are shackled, hoisted and moved into the killing area

existed at the time of Moses. Religion is being used to hide economic
1;“

motives. The pens which would eliminate the shackling and hoisting
must be bought! ‘

Mrs. Stevens, whose heroic efforts on behalf of helpless creatures
h ave spanned over twentytwo years, is a tall, slender, soft spoken,
articulate, aristocratic looking woman with a face of cameo-like beauty.
Her charm and gentility are matched only by the steel in her back bone.
She has a grown daughter and a prominent successful husband, facts I
mention in an attOMpt to dispel the ”lonely little old ladies in tennis

shoes" image that shrouds the humane movement.

Mrs. Stevens moves among the great and powerful. They are her pagrs§i

and are ﬁrequently enlisted in her causes.

The officers of Animal Welfare Institute are: Christine Stevens, Presideni,
Alfred B. Glancy, Vice President,(he's a business associate of Mr. Stevenﬁg

Madeleine chelmans, Secretary, and Reger L. Stevens, Treasurer.

There is a Scientific Committee on Humane Standards consisting entirely
of M.Ds. and Ph.Ds. and an International Committee consisting of promi-
nent people in the humane movement from the united Kingdom, Canada,

Denmark, France, Greece, and ﬂexico.

There are two types of membership, Associate membership $10, and con-
tributing membership $2. This entitles the member to the reguiar period-

ical reports of the Institute. Both are non voting.

When there are special circumstances there may be an appeal for additions

 




al funds.

Society of animal Protective Legislation created at the suggestion of
Abe Fortas to be a lobbying instrumsnt has no membership, per se. ltd
consists of two officers, Madeleine Bemelmans, President, (the same
Eadeleine Bemelmans who is Secretary of A.W.I.) and Christine Stevens,
Secretary, (the same on ristine Stevens who is President of A.W.I.) and
a mailing list. Those on the list must write letters. The appeals to
”Humanitarians" always request copies of the responses received from
the legislators to whom the appeal was directed. When people do not
respond over a period of time, they are dropped from the list. Five or
six thousand names were dropped within~the last several years. ?eople do
not remain constant from issue to issue. They are not allinterested in
the same degree in all the legislation pushed by S.A.P.L.4§
Wh en S.A.P.L. embarks on a lobbying campaign, the letter requesting
support spells out the issues and a list of the senators and congress-
men on the specific committees dealing with the proposed legislation is
provided. A complete list of senators and congressmen is provided after

every election, but duplicates may be had for the asking.

All mimeozraphed mailings from S.A.P.L. are signed by both Mrs. Bemelmans
and Mrs. Stevens, but all private correspondence , answers to questions,

special "thankyou" notes, come from Mrs. Stevens alone.

Dur ing a h navy campaign there will usually be a plea for funds. (It is

believed that Mr. Stevens sometimes makes up deficits.)

A.W.I. has about 3,000 to 4,000 members and two employees. S.A.P.L.
has a mailing list of 8,000 to 9,000 names and.one employee. Mrs. Stevens

can count on her supporters writing in the neighborhood of 25,000

letters on any given issue. Mrs. Stevens stresses that members have

 




page '7’

never been sought. Membership drives have never teen conducted. The

issues have brought people to the organizations. Reports of impending

legislation, reports on hearings of bills, reports of ugly situations

requiring legal action, all have brought people seeking to help.

most h unane bills are derisely called ”housewives bills", yet so great
was the Volume of nail in behalf of the Humane Slaughter Bill --which
really forced its passage in 1958 (Public Law 85-765, passed Aug. 27
1958) that President Eisenhower is said to have remarked, "Isn't7anybody
in Washington talking about anything except humane slaughtert':
During the push for protection of laboratory animals in1965-66 Senator M
Fulbright said that there was more mail on that subject than on Vietnana{g
A.W.I. investigates conditions relating to the treatment of animals and
puhli shes its findings in its information reports. It fulfills
educational functions through its own reports and special material for
cﬁﬁ%gsgg&%§§oy Scouts etc. ”Animals and Their Legal Rights” an especial‘
lynvolume has been requested by 1,100 chiefs of police from all parts

of the country to aid in knowledge and enforcement or laws protecting
animals. Among the publications compiled and distributed by A.V.I.

in the year 1971 are: Spanish.and Greek translations of the A.W.I.

manual Basic Care of Experimental Animals, the fifth.Anerican edition

of Basic Care of Riparimental Anima18,2,722 copies; 617 copies of
Comfortable Quarters for Laboratory Animals, 25 copies ofsnall Animal
anesthesia; 32 copies of Eunane Experimental Technique 3 all of the
preceding sent to institutions at their requesta lsnuals sent to
teachers at their request: 6,551 copies of First Aid and ﬂare of Small
Animals; 5,714 copies of lunane Biology Projects: 2’175 copies of Studya
ing Our Fellow Enamels; 2,200 copies of Boundaries of Use of Andmals in

High School Biology; 1,160 copies of attitudes Toward Animals;

 




page 8

3,975 copies of Painless Animal EXperinentation; 4,825 cepies of Rules
Governing Treatment of Animals by High Sohool Biology Students and
Reasons Wh y Animal Experiments by High School Students Should be
Painless; 910 cepies of Statement on Animals in Secondary Schools,
1,631 copies of High School Science Coordinator Devises System to Pre-
vent Cruel or Hazardous Sc ience Fair Projects; 3,789 copies of

Kittens and Cats; 1,799 c Opies of YOu and Your Dog; 3,000 copies of

Good Kind Lion; 400 copies of Befriending;Animals and approximately
[9' "

25,000 miscellaneous leaflets w are distributed.

A.W.I. annually presents The Schweitzer Medal upon which is inscribed,
“We need a boundless ethics which will include the animals also? to
someone who has made an outstanding contribution to animal welfare.
LAM-:50”, '"Wi'WMNF/no,
Among the winners have been ‘t‘WﬁE/é‘iﬂaraﬂ/Mey, .I Mew? Chief Fund-akira
of Africa, Rachel Carson, Ann Courell tree, a policeman who actually"
pressed charges against a university hospital for mistreatment of dogs

used in experiments, and Bob Gromie.

While working with Roger L. Stevens raising funds for the presidential
campaign of Adlai Stevenson in 1952 my husband Bob was so impressed by
Mrs. Stevens and her good works that years later when he not he, he told
me about her. I however, at that timeswas unwilling to believe that our
good government and people did not do, as a matter of course, all that

could be done to eliminate pain from the lives of the animals we used;

At about this time, someone foisted a baby par shoot one use I was
incensed that anyone would send a livingzcreature to anyone else sitha
out prior consultation. "Dickie-bird' promptly took over our house»
hold; we got him a friend, aBody—bird“, and graduallywe became aware
of birds in general and parakeets in particularlwhich led to some very

ugly discoveries, including the conditions under whic h they're kept in

 




pogo 9

pet shops, five and tan cant stores, and worst of all, at fairs.

It was my despair at what I saw at the San Gennaro Fastival, whore
parakeets could be won for a nickol that lad me to A.W.I. The conditions
at the fair itself, birds crowded in flight cages, or isolated in
carrying cages, while a rain of coins flaw all around them, tarrifiod
further by the sounds from the shooting gallariss in tho naxt booths,
broathing tho smoke from the nearby sausage stands, out in the too cold
or too warm woathsr, these were matters falling und or the jurisdiction
of the A.5.P.C.A. aThié”onoo”hnmans,agono 3 now, alas, does more pro-
curing animals for laboratory experimantation than enforcing anti-
cruolty statutes.:26

However, the signs that say "Win a bird in a cage $.05“ mean that
people can obtain a bird so casually that tho poor creatures are
almost doomed even should they be taken from the inhospitable environ-
ment of Mulberry Stroet. The "cage" is a carrying cageghot a permanent
home. But the new owners don't necessarily know this, or know anything

about what a parakeat needs.

I made inquirios at ssvoral organizations seeking to rectify this sit-
uation. Only A.W.I. respondsd in any meaningful way. I was told that
if I would write parakeet care instructions that they would have them
printed and I could have them.distributad. Hots the brilliant way in
which Mrs. Stevens functions. I was not going to be permitted to simply
dump the problem on A.W.I., I was 301 ng to have to aid in its solutions
Hrs. Stavons has the talent to utilize the interest and ability of all
those who cross her path, from Adlai Stevenson Governor of Illinois and
presidential candidate, to his son Senator Adlai Stevenson with.whom she

was working last week in bohalf of predators.

 




page 10

Christina Stevens knows her way around "the hill? Many ssnators and
congressmen will contact bar when lsgislation affsctisn animals is
being considered as will a numbsr of cabinet mambsrs. She rsgularly
writes to the various committees before which bills she ars considered
asking to testify. And testify she does ~—- twice in the last week,
for example, on predatOr “s and endangersd spaciss. In a remarkable
display of gallantry, Senators Kennth Kasting and Eugane McCarthy
virtually visd with one another to furthor an amsndmant urged by Mrs.
Stevens?g Wives of strategically placed man have also been most hslpful,

-12
as for instance, Mrs.‘Miks Mansfield and Mrs. Warren Magnusson. Vat

3
Mrs. Stevens, a basically shy and gentle woman has always avoided per-
sonal publicity as has her tycoon husband. They are veny private

people, all their public activities notwithstanding.

My own activities with/for Mrs. Stevens include:
Badgering the city to provide water at its dssignatsd bird feeding
stations. (They actually put a bird bath in Union Souars Park, but my
joy was short-lived. It was most inadequate, and did not have running
water despite the existence of watsr pipss to rest rooms directly balow
it.)
Making inspections of pet shops selling birds, sometimes even getting
into the back rooms, and five and ten cent stores selling birds.
I inspected shipping facilities for birds.

I wrote letters to editors describing various ugly situations and

'supporting legislation to rectify the situations. These letters were

sublished in the New York World Telegram and Sun, The New York Herald
Tribune, the Bow York tournal American, Tbs New Ybrk Times, the Rev York
Daily Hews, The Miami Rerald, Newsweek, and my paraként care instructions
were reviewed enthusiastically by William !.A. Carr the prize winning

pet columnist-then with the Bewark Post.

 




page ll

I wrote letters to people in government numbering in tho hundreds.

I provided testimony on birds in behalf of tho Animal Welfare soil of
1970 which.bocamo Public Law 91-579, Dec. 24, 1970 having been passed
unanimously by Congress. (It’s troubles came later with'funding,
courtesy of Rep. Jamie Wh itten and his SubCommittes on Agricultural

ApproPriations.)

Shortly after I became involved with A.W.l. I got some literature from
Society for Animal Protective Legislation and a note from Christine
Stevens saying that she thought I might be interested in tho work of
bar other organization. The two complement each other so well, it's
only logical that to be involved in one, is to be aware of tho need for
the other. Because it is involved in getting legislation passed, it

is easier to pinpoint 3.A.P.L.'s successes than A.W;I.'s.

S.A.P.L¢and.a.£.l. are enormouslycffective and for this reason

are of tremendous significance to the public. The grsat skill and
knowledgo»of Hrs. Stevens, and the absence of an unwieldy burnauoracy
and.time consuming consultations with tho membership make for great

efficiency.

For example, an excellent bill for humane treatment of laboratory

animals introduced by Senator Joseph Clark and supported by Mrs. S.
languished in senator Lister Hill’s Labor and Welfare committee for

SIX YEARS even though Senator Clark was a member of this committee.

The “dognapping” of Fepper across state lines brought national attenté
ion to tﬁis issue, Pepper having been stolen and sold to a laboratory,
and a nggemiasurs of the suns type was quickly introduced and passed :23
has auss it fell before a different committee, the Commerce 60mmittec;

August 24, 1966 it became Public Law 89*5445 The new law passed in
1970 is really an amendment to fill in the loopholes; and hopefully

 




page 12
1974 will see more species included in still another act.

Hy point is that 6hristine Stevens is always ready, ready for almost

any new development, ready to get out a mailing at a moment's notice,

ready with an alternative bill and someone to sponsor it.

Addressed envelopes are always on h and, and it takes little time to

nimeograph a leaflet asking that a particular bill be supported.

”The humane movement h as, by its disunity for for too long paid far
too fearful a price”, said Cleveland Amory, of "thd for Animals” in
1972. So fragmented has the humane movement been that taken in toto
it was rated the least effective lobbying group by Murray Kempton in a
Bew‘York,Post column. (most effective according to Kempton were the
oils lobby, the gun lobby and the A-M.A.) (The latter was frequently
involved fighting laboratory animal legislation.)

‘Christine Stevens is not respected and admired throughout the humane
movement. There was a bill introduced by Senator Jacob Javits and
Rep. Paul Rogers that was in competitions shiahith the bill supported
by Hrs. Stevens whose bill became the Animal Welfare Act of 1970.

The Javits~ Rogers Bill was supported by many humane organizations
because it would transfer the enforcement of laboratory animal
legislation from the Dept. of Agriculture to E.E.W; In so doing it
would avoid the agriculture Committees where the going is so slow, and
avoid Janie Whitten resisting funding. Javits, E5933 last minute
amendment of the Humane Slaughter not crippled it, was not trusted by
Christine Stevens. Furthermore, by transferring administration from
the Dept. of agriculture where the veterinarians are, to E.E.W} *bere
the doctors are, the enforcement of the law wOuld be in the very hands
of those it was designed to reggﬁgte. Battle lines were drawn and

Hrs. Stevens stood aanst alone; She persisted; and when it became

 




page 15

apparant that any action taken would be on behalf of Chritins's bill,
M as”? a!" ’ _
ﬂtha rest of the humans movement reluctantly fall into line.
There are those in other humans organizations who condemn Christina
Stavcns for being autocratic, yst I know of #HQT organization in

which the momborship votes on which lsgislation they will support, or

tho provisions of such lagislation. They merely vote for officers.

ﬂSh o is condnmnod also, by all thosa to whom the vary tsrm "laboratory

animal” is anathema s-- the anti-vivissction groups. {Thsro is a csrtain
irony here, because tho science lohhiss call any attempt to rcgulatc

any phase of animal sxporimsntation “anti—vivisoctionist: yot tho rsal

anti-vivisoctionists and the scientists are always in tho same camp,

opposing rsgulation, for diffsrsnt rsasons to ho sure.)

The Rational Catholic Society for Animal Welfare has not supportsd

any bill to control treatment of experimental regarding none that

have been introduced as adequate. Unitsd Action for Animals, 3 group;
that favors the rcplacchsnt of lab animals with human tissue banks and
computer simulation has attacked the Animal Welfargﬁgct of 1970 as still
another ywhitcwash of laboratory animal suffsring.“ So that you may

got some idea of tho kind of suffering and the extent of same,nots the

attached material. Th s scope is so enormous any attsmpt to dascribs

it would take more space than an sntirs term paper.

Elsanor Sailing of Unitad Action for Animals states further that attiiﬁ?“
to got i nformation from tho Dspt. of Agriculture to which the expori-

mentors arc to make reports under the provisions of the act is an

excsrciso in frustration; ”Although it is public information, more

than one fsdcral agency h as hidden information that the public has a
right to h ave? says Es. Sailing. "The majority of experiments causing

acute pain and distress to laboratory animals may hover be reported at

 




page 14

all? he. Sailing continues. Yet in the same article, "...it was not

possible to oppose the bill because it was so wide ranging that a

fragment of it Might conceivably have helped an animal somewhere?

So we get down to the question, is half a loaf better than none, or by
ac cepting h alt the loaf do you forfeit your claim to the whole loaf?

Consider the legislation for which A.W.I. Has laid who groundwork, for
which S.A.P.L. has lobbied, that has been enacted.

).
The Humane Slaughter Act Z-- by humane slaughter those in the humane
movement mean slaughter in which.the creature is first painlessly
anesthetized-~by carbon dioxide anodorless gas, or by captive bolt

pistol, or electric stunner. In any event, shackling and hoisting

a conscious animal cannot be considered humane.

Humane Slaughter offers many advantages in additions to alleviating the
suffering of animals. It protects slaughterhouse workers from injuries
because they are no longer dealing with terrified struggling animals.
It spares the workers the degradation of inflicting pain on helpless
creatures. Ebne breakage, bruising and hemorr haging are prevented
when animals are spared pain an d fear, resulting in profit—savings for

2
the packing industry. :5

Obviously much remains to be done in this area. The federal law must
be extended and state laws must be passed so that all meat animals are

protected.

2?
The Animal Welfare Act or 1966, having been passed hurriedly left much

to be desired. The result was a group or amendments which became the
339

Animal Welfare act of 1970. congressman Hhitehurst who worked so
h ard on the 1970 bill is now attempting to expand coverage to ﬂnclude

species as yet unprotected.

 




page 15

The list of accomplishments, admittedly not complete, includes

3’ ‘32 2. 3 ‘2';

protection, for whales and other saa mammals, endangered species,

J ‘47 J {I}
predators, Tennessee walking horsss, and a federal law against hunting

eg’
from airplanes, the Wild Horse Protection Acts, and Resolutions in the
House of Represantatives and Senate for international protsction of
polar bears.

Tho one area in which Mrs. Stevens feels there has been the most glaring
absence of success has been with children's experiments in and.out of
schoolsgz~-in science classrooms and at so called science fairs.

While the biggest sponsor of a science fair Westighouse, was embarrassed
into putting limits on what is acceptable for children to do in the
animal eXperimentation area, our whole society which looks to science
for salvation gives the green light to anythingb however hideously
cruel, that is called a medical experiment, or pure resaarch.

A.W.I. and/or S.R.P.L. have representatives at most conferences of
humane groups and attempt to work with other groupi?)};:wever, their
greater efficiency puts them so far out ahead that often, while lead-

ing the way Mrs. Stevens appears to be walking alone.

Of the existing federal laws to protect animals, nine were passed

since the founding of the Soc iety for Animal Protective Legislation,
and to a large extent because of th e organization's work to obtain
their enactment.. The two previously enacted laws are the "28-hour

Law” protecting livestock shipped by rail and a law authorizing the

U.3. Customs to prosecute shippers of animals if they fail to maintain
reasonable humane standards. These laws were passed in 1906 and 1948
raspectively. These dates, and the long period hetween.them demonstrate
a most serious lack of legislative work till the Society of Animal

4o
Protective Legislation was founded.

 




page 16
Footnotes
1. Friday, March 50, 1975, New York Post
”Ten Cent Protest in war on Viviseotion?
2. Private conversation with Christine Stevens.

5. National Catholic Society for Animal Welfare, August 1970 report.

4.Passed by Senate December 18,1969, by House of Representatives
November 6, 1970, signed into law November 94, 1970.

Private correspondence with the agencies involved and with Idaho
senator Franﬁ'Churoh.

“Humane Societies Score Steel Tr ops”, New York Times, May 15, 1972.
New York werld Telegram and Sun article by Anne Yates Clark Nov. 1963

Committee for Humans Legislation mailing in behalf of the Harris-
Pryor Bill, 8.1515, H.R. 6558.

"Sixty Minutes” televisnon show, Feb. 1973.

Society for snimal Protective Legislation.newsletter, February 7,
1972.

ﬂew York Sunday News, Mareh.ﬁ§5'1973.

New York Daily News, March 17, 1975, "Brigitte Rob Under Dog Collar

"They Need YOur Help”, Rational Catholic Society for Animal
Welfare, Newark, B.J., Marsh 25, 1963. Nihil Obstat, Leo A. Farley

S.T.D., Imprimatur Thomas A. Roland S.T.D. Archbishop of Newark
Censor Litrorum.

14. See 15.

15. Jewish Rewsletter, June 16, 1958; Oct. 17,1960; Rov. 28,1960;
April 5, 1961, April 17, 1961, May 1, 1961.

16. Private conversation with Christine Stevens.
17.Conversation with Christine Stevens.
18. Correspondence with Senator Fulbright.

19. "Twentieth.Annual Report“ of Animal Welfare Institute, July 1,
1970-June 50, 1971.

20. Metcalf—Eatch Act passed July 1952 (Few York State) compels
publio pounds to turn over dogs and cats to laboratories upon

demand. Rational Catholic Society for Animal Welfare, Report may,
1972.

21. Congressional Record ~ Senate, July 28, 1964.
Continued

 




 
   
 
      
    
   
 
 
  
  
    
   
  
  
   
  
   
    
   
  
  
  
  
 
 
       

page 17

hrs. Stevens publicly thanked them at an A.W.I. meeting and in
a mailing.

25. This case was widely reported in newspapers all over the country.
hy own memory was refreshed'in a conversation with.Mrs. Stevens,
March 30. 1973. ~ ~ M

24. Rational Catholic Society for Animal Welfare, Report, February,
1975.

25. Eumane Society to the U.S. and Humane Information Services re—
ports, 1969~70.

26. United Action for animals, Report, June 1972; Uhited Action for
Animals, Memoranda: Re: The Animal Welfare Act of 1970; March,
1973; and the United Action for Animals April 1973 Bulletin which
says in part, "It has been.years since any major humane society
spoke out on beh alf of laboratory animals save for the spurious
Animal Welfare Act of 1970! The report goes on to describe the
"perfidy" of the “Where possible” clauses of the act.

27. Public Law 85-765

28. Humane Slaughter, A Progress Report, Agricultural Research
Service, 8.8. Dept. of Agriculture, Sept. 1961.

29. Public Law 89-5440
50. Public Law 91-579

51. Resolutions by the 0.8. Senate and Iouse of Representatives re-
questing the Sec. of State to call for a ten year international
moratorium on commercial whaling. As a result of the unanimous
adoption of these Resolutions the U.S. Delegation to the Stoc k-
holm conference on the Human Environment June, 1972, proposed
the moratorium and it was adopted 53-0.

as. Endangered Species Act passed 1969. (sets, this is so, :52 follows.)-

52’ (Rots 52 and 55 are reversed.) "ass Marinesmammal Protection
Act, signed into law Oct. 21, 1972.

34. Prohibition of Poisoning of Predators on Public Lands was passed by
the 9.8. House of Repressntatives but not the Senate. An.sxecutive'
order has stopped the poisoning program and work is being done on
a new bill. EUEA39 SOCItiY of the 8.3. report of March 1972.

35. Bill passed to stop “soring” Nov. 24, 1970.
56. Public Law 92-159, went into effect Dec. 21, 1972.

37. The first Wild Horse Act, was passed in 1959. The second, also
known as the ”Wild Horse AnnieAct” after hrs. veins ”Wild.3orse
Annie“ Johnsﬁn who really brought the.plight of the animals to

national attention, was passed in 1971. PHBUCL4“’ 71*i95’

38. Humane Eaucation in the classroom, a hook put out by the Humane
Society of the 0.3. in 1962.
C;orfC:71q<od




paga 18

Report to Humanitarians put Gut by Humane Information Smrvlcas,
March 1973.

39. See 38.

40. Societyfoﬁ Animal Protective Lagislation, March 1975 list of
accomplishments.

 




THE ANIMAL RIGHTS PROJECT

 

BARBARA SALTZ - PO. BOX 1271 . UNION‘CITY, NJ. 07087 - (201) 617-7247

'= ~‘ " Y " x "w ‘ - ». .- a? » v I ~- ~ rm
aﬁi QltmuiUA LAaLlUHmI

rwﬁw Haruﬁbwcﬂi

“ii TE!

 

"ft.',1f.;’ﬁlf‘,’)1;iﬂiﬂ 1:: M f 6-3
librari
an the animal

Uublfgher i“ d?

("a
.1 I13

I

.- .1 M .,,.:. .; ,.
{2‘ EH) 1. :__ J. 115.“?

animal righig
will gravide
that

.7 Ll C7 55?} 53; {:3 C} K‘ 15’
ﬁtlﬁn

in

{3 1:" :1 El 1’? 3 'ﬂ If“ h

2’
I“

t 1"; £331 t;

BFEQ\

3; J Annaire
-‘rtwmﬁ. , W , ermeCi
iate
e number)

ﬁgurigﬂ

.. -i

the

:m& ma : matérlalw

WM

L
C} n

p
) £.

whom
avg}

hava

E,” C} U i" C C) C? E‘ E? 3.“ {:3 '1.

right~

gram
addreg

a (35-: 1:55.:

.‘ﬂ
3

.iﬁhad hﬂflaﬂd

A/Cmnsumer

e

hLS vrk
mavement.
hardback.

.1.“
L.

V 1. l

inq a

I"! ‘3‘.“
r‘ “4

to

31¢ numb

phema
egtabiiah

erg,

direct

.
'1 :73
.A. Ira

infarmation I

igating

bagi‘
invegt

‘Qquéat that

$0
yam
further
yum

‘1 :3 f? 1:1 13 :3 If

‘ -. ' w T w
‘1- T 1 4:1 J, S...

 




QUESTIONNAIRE

 

Full Name of Organizatian= The Animal_ﬂelfare Tnstitntp

Address for General Public to Contact: P-O- BOX 3650

 

Washington, D.C. 20007

 

 

 

Phone and FAX Number ¥or General Public: 202‘337—2332 Phone

 

202-338—9478 Fax

 

INFORMATION AND MATERIALS NEEDED FROM YOU

 

Listing of all services, products, periodicals you offer to the
public.

Literature describing your basic activity.

If not covered above, a flier on your organization’s history.

Any speci¥ic organizational philosophy.
Any special/unique campaigns for 1992/93.
Membership criteria (if applicable).

Sources of funding with indications if donations are tax free.

CONTACT PERSON AND PHONE NUMBER FOR BARBARA SALTZ:

 

Mrs. Christine Stevens, President

 

 

Animal Welfare Institute Quarterly
Publications and Films

Aims and Programs

The Schweitzer Medalists

All book flyers

The Noble Elephant

Wild Birds Should Fly Free Leaflet
AWI Annual Report, 1989—90

Whale Flyer

Membership Envelope

 




W 760 Wédaf-r
7352/ 9 éé

 




