// 0
A, 224/? I

A . _. . ; .,. 2,1. /,//,_.,.H,,H,,.,.,.,

D

aySI

/

n the Li

l
H
3.
H
O
A
V
1|
S
O
m
3..
M1
SA
4%
mg
Am
UH
Srq‘
mu.
93
(11A
.3
Wm
O
p
on
‘u0
SJ
.nJ
my
Tm
m
l
O
V
N
N
V
n1
(S

OVER 30 0,000
CONVICTIONS FOR CRllELTYTO ANIMALS
IN 100 YEARS

 

 

Inspector of the

fe of an

ISSUED GRATIS.

 




 

DAYS IN THE LIFE OF AN
INSPECTOR OF THE R.S.P.C.A.

 

 

All the inspectors of the R.S.P.C.A. work with one aim in View
—the prevention of cruelty to animals—but they approach their
goal by different roads. To describe one day in the life of an
inspector of the R.S.P.C.A. would be to give a very inadequate idea
of an inspector’s many and varied duties. The work of a country
inspector naturally differs from that of an inspector employed in a
busy city, and the duties of both those men are not quite the same as
those undertaken by an inspector at a seaside town.

We will endeavour to give a general impression of the duties of
an inspector in a country town.

It is market day, and the inspector knows that he has a long day’s

work before him, but he waits until the ﬁrst post arrives before

setting out on his duties. The post may bring complaints of urgent
cases of ill-treated and neglected animals. The inspector, keeping
the Society’s object always in mind, decides whether to attend at
once to any complaints he may have received or whether to start on
his round of duties in and near the market and attend to the complaints
afterwards. If the cases reported are not urgent the inspector goes
down to the railway station, meets the cattle trains, and watches the
animals as they are‘ being detrained. He then goes off to the roads
leading to the markets to supervise the animals that are being
brought in by road. He also keeps a watchful eye on the drovers,
some of whom may be using their sticks too energetically in order to
drive their charges quickly to market.

This supervision of the animals and those in charge of them is
kept up during the whole of the time that the business of the market
is in progress. The inspector watches carefully. Sometimes he is
helped by the cry of an animal ; there is a certain note in the cry
which only an experienced man could detect, a note that tells the
inspector that all is not well with that animal. The inspector,
guided by the sound, goes to the animal, and discovers the cause of
its distress.

One of the most common forms of cruelty in markets is the over-
stocking of cows. Sometimes the cows are brought to the market
with their young calves, but the calves are muzzled. The object of

2

 

#473:




 

«v.5

 

 

 

 

 

PHOTO PRESS AND PUBLICITY.
The overstocxing or cows 15 a very common form of cruelty in markets. Here
an R.S.P.C.A. Inspector is seeing that the cow is relieved from the pain caused by
overstocking.

 

 

 

 

 

PHOTO. PRESS AND PUBLICITY

Children should not be allowed to enter cattle markets; there is a rule to this
eﬁect at Ipswich market.

3

 




 

 

alloWing the udder of the cbw to become distended is to. convince the
purchaser that the cow is a good milker, but only a very 1nexper1enced
man would be deceived in this way, and the practice is doubly wrong
because it causes much suffering to the cow and deprivesthe calf of
its natural food for a long period. When an inspector dlscovers an
overstocked cow he at once obtains relief for her, and if her calf IS
with her, he sees that the calf receives its natural food.

 

     

AN“ EYE
ON THE
CATTLE

 

PHOTO. PRESS AND PUBLICITY.

Maybe the inspector comes across half a dozen calves that have
been sent up for sale. The inspector knows what kind of cruelty he
may possibly ﬁnd practised on those calves—wayward, lively little
creatures, apparently determined to go in any direction except the
particular way that the drover desires. Sometimes one calf will dodge
away from the others and his recovery will give some trouble to the
drover. The calf resents being caught and walks slowly—much too
slowly for the drover, who tries to expedite matters by twisting
the calf’s tail. At that moment the inspector comes forward and
cautions the man in a tactful friendly manner. The twisting of
calves’ tails is one of the commonest forms of cruelty in markets.

It must not be thought that all drovers are indifferent to the
feelings of the animals in their charge. On the contrary, many of

4

 

 




 

 

 

them are most humane, and when in doubt or difﬁculty about the
management of their animals they will seek the advice of the inspector.
Of course such advice is always gladly given. Maybe a calf is too
young to be driven from the market to the station. The calf ﬂoat,
provided by the Society for use at that market, is not to be found. The
R.S.P.C.A. inspector will surely know where it is, and so off the
drover goes to ﬁnd the inspector, who probably tells the man that
the ﬂoat is in use but will be back from the station directly.

 

PHOTO. PRESS AND PUBLICITY.

INSPECTING A LOAD 0F CALVES.

The inspector watches carefully for any suffering animals,—
sheep that have gone lame after a long journey by road, or pigs that
have been roughly handled and injured, or animals with some
physical defect that causes suffering, as for example a cow with an
ingrowing horn. If the weather is very hot the inspector sees that,
as far as possible, the animals are sheltered from the blazing sun, and
that all are supplied with drinking water.

When the market is over the inspector repeats his duties of the
morning, by going to the railway to see that the animals sent by
train are not overcrowded and that those going by road are not being
overdriven. Perhaps in the course of his walks to and fro the
inspector discovers some stray animal that has been temporarily lost,

5

 




 

 

or one that has been overlooked and left in the market ; the inspector
would be neglecting his duty if he did not see that all such animals
were fed and watered and, if necessary, made comfortable for the
night.

We will imagine, however, that the market is clear at last and
that the inspector has had no very serious case of cruelty to deal with.
He goes home to ﬁnd that a friend of animals has left an urgent
message for him. An animal is in distress in a ﬁeld some miles
away from the town. Will the inspector see to it at once P

The inspector will, and off he goes, but perhaps the directions
given are not very clear and he has some difﬁculty in ﬁnding the
suffering animal. However, he discovers it at last and at once takes
steps to relieve the animal’s sufferings. That is the inspector’s ﬁrst
duty always—«to look after the animal. Time enough, when the

 

 

 

 

 

 

animal’s sufferings have been eased, to look for the owner or other
person in charge of the animal and warn him of the wrong he has
done. If the animal has been starved the inspector’s ﬁrst thought
will be of food for that animal. He may have to go a mile or two to
get the food, but he will get it, and his knowledge of animals will
tell him what food to get and how much to give. When that part of
thejob is ﬁnished the inspector searches for the man who has neglected
the animal and reminds him of his duty. Perhaps the animal requires
careful attention during the night ; the inspector sees that he gets
it, and when he has done everything that he can possibly do for the
animal—and not until then—the inspector returns home.

But the inspector has not yet ﬁnished his day’s work. He has to
write out a report of his day’s duties and post it to Headquarters in
London. The R.S.P.C.A. employs two hundred and three inspectors
and, obviously, its affairs would soon be in hopeless confusion if
Headquarters were not in daily touch with each man.

' 6




When the inspector has ﬁnished his report to Headquarters he
turns his attention to the branch of the Society to which he is attached.
He enters the number of cautions he has given to offenders during the
day in his monition book; he also writes up his log book, giving a
brief account of his day’s work, and records any convictions that
may have been obtained in the local police courts.

It will be seen that on a busy market day the inspector’s work
begins very early in the morning and ends very late at night ; as a
matter of fact, the inspector is never off duty. He is always liable
tpl be called upon at any hour of the day or night and on any day of
t e wee .

. An inspector may have to go to three or four markets, at long
dlstances from his home, during the week. No bare record of his

 

 

 

 

PHOTO. PRESS AND PUBLICITY.

A BIRD CATCHER’S VICTIMS.

work can give one a complete idea of the amount of cruelty to
animals that he prevents. The mere presence of an R.S.P.C.A. inspec—
tor in uniform in a market is sufﬁcient to make many men pause when
they are on the point of dealing harshly with an animal.

We will take another day’s work. Perhaps on the following
day the inspector has to take a case in the local police court. Here
we may point out that the decision to prosecute a man for cruelty to
an animal does not rest with any inspector. Each inspector sends
his reports of cruelty cases to Headquarters where they are carefully
considered by specialists who decide when a prosecution seems
necessary. The aim of the Society is to prevent animals from being
cruelly ill—used, not to prosecute people for being cruel to them. A
prosecution is undertaken only as a warning to others or when previous
cautions to the offender have been unheeded.

7

 




 

 

The inspector must know how to conduct a case in a police court.
He learns that part of his work during the preliminary training he
receives on joining the Society. That training also includes instruc-
tion in the needs of all kinds of animals and their simple ailments,
and in giving it the Society’s veterinary surgeon assumes that the
men who are being trained to be inspectors know nothing of animals.

We return to our inspector in the police court. After his case
is over he goes back to his home to call for any messages. Perhaps it
is a quiet day. The inspector goes into the streets. He knows the busy
centres, and the hills—knows just where to look for cases of cruelty
to animals.

 

IHOTO, PRESS AND PUBLICITY.

A COMFORTABLE JOURNEY.

Maybe there is a race-meeting in the neighbourhood in the
afternoon. The inspector is bound to be present, unless some very
urgent case calls him elsewhere. When he returns home he ﬁnds a
letter awaiting him from someone who has been to the local music-
hall and seen some performing animals there. Is this cruelty? Will
the inspector inquire into it ?

The inspector sees the performance ; afterwards he goes behind
the scenes to see under what conditions the animals are kept when
they are not performing. If necessary he cautions the trainer,

8

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

makes a note of what is wrong, and ﬁnds out where the troupe of
animals will be appearing during the following week. He then
communicates with the inspector in that town and gives him
information about the animals in that troupe. And so ends another
long day’s work.

 

PHOTO.

PRESS AND PUBLICITY.

IN THE SHEEP MARKET.

Perhaps the next day is an off day, and the inspector spends the
morning in going round to the live-stock shops in the town in order
to see that the animals and birds are kept under proper conditions.
Possibly some Wild birds are being kept in cages too small for them, or
the premises are dirty, or the dogs show signs of not having
had sufﬁcient exercise. The inspector cautions the offender,
gives some advice, and makes a note of the place. In a few days
time he will return to that shop to see if his advice has been followed.

In the afternoon the inspector may have to see the honorary
Secretary of his branch, or he may have a number of complaints of
cruelty to animals to investigate. If he is anywhere near some
docks he may Wind up his day’s duties with a spell of night work.

The carting at docks is mostly done at night.

9

 




 

An inspector will often do a hard day’s work on Sunday, for the
bird catchers are usually busy on a Sunday morning. The law with
regard to the taking of wild birds varies in different parts of the
country, but each inspector knows what order is in force in his
district and it is up to him to see that the bird catchers obey it.
Apart from the cruelty of imprisoning newly caught birds in small
cages there is the cruelty to the decoy birds tethered near the bird-
catcher’s nets by means of string “ braces ” under their wings. The
“ braces ” often cut into the bird’s ﬂesh, but the bird—catcher,
intent only on the money obtained by his shameful trade, ignores
the bird’s sufferings until the inspector comes upon him.

On Sunday afternoons many pleasure parties are abroad. The
inspector knows the favourite drives and he patrols them, for the
sake of the horses. If the inspector is near a seaside town he will also
visit the beach, to make sure that the goats, donkeys and ponies
employed for pleasure purposes on the sands are not being over-
worked. During the holiday season this duty will be undertaken on
two or three afternoons of the week.

During the winter the inspector’s duties are farther aﬁeld. He
patrols the lonely country roads on behalf of any animals not provided
with shelter and food. On his way home he calls at the railway
station to inspect any animals that have arrived there or are being
sent away. Much suffering is caused to animals by a cold railway
journey. Dogs and puppies are often sent by train in boxes too
small for them; fowls are overcrowded in crates or are sent in
crates which do not comply with the order of the Ministry of Agricul—
ture.

Some of the Society’s inspectors are honorary assistant sanitary
inspectors for their districts. These appointments give. the inspectors
the right to visit slaughter-houses, and thus they are able to see that
the animals are kept under proper conditions before being killed
and that they are killed in a proper manner. If the bye-law com-
pelling the use of “humane killers” is in force in his district the
inspector naturally watches for any infringement of that bye—law.

It will be seen that an inspector’s duties are very varied. He
has to know something about all animals and, in the ﬁrst instance
his action must be based on that knowledge. If the inspector has
reason to believe that any animal he meets with is suffering in any
way he knows What to do but, as has been said, his ﬁrst thought is for
the animal—not for the person who has caused the animal to suffer ;
that is an afterthought.

It is not always an easy matter to enforce a law for the protection
of animals. For example, a rabbit-coursing meeting is legal provided

10

 

 

 

 




 

 

the rabbits have a “reasonable chance of escape.” An inspector
Visiting such a meeting has to interpret the law for himself. He may
be perfectly satisﬁed as to the brutalitity of the “ sport ” but— is
it contrary to the law? If it isn’t, if the coursed rabbits have a
“ reasonable chance of escape,” then the inspector can only make
suggestions for lessening the cruelty to the rabbits as much as
possible; there is no ground for any legal action.

Each inspector is instructed in the use of the ” humane killers "
for the painless destruction of animals, and is provided with one so
that should he be called upon (with the consent of its owner) to put any
suffering animal out of its misery he can do so. An inspector should
be able to satisfy himself that a sick, neglected or injured animal is.
in pain. But there is one thing an inspector of the R.S.P.C.A. is not
instructed to do and is specially cautioned not to do. He must not
attempt to do the work of a veterinary surgeon. When an animal
requires medical or surgical treatment the inspector’s ﬁrst duty is to
call in a properly qualiﬁed man to attend to it.

 

 

 

fHOTO. - PRESS AND PUBLICITY.

INSPECTING A POULTRY DEALER’S PENS.

1]

 




HE Society employs a staff of 203 inspectors. More inspectors
I would be employed if funds were forthcoming, for there are
still dark places in thecountry which are not patrolled by
the guardians of the nation’s animals—the inspectors of the
R.S.P.C.A. The Council of the Society are therefore anxious to
increase the staff of inspectors, and they appeal to all lovers of
animals to assist them in maintaining and extending the work.
Inspectors’ wages and travelling expenses, the expenses of witnesses
WhBJ cases have to be brought to court), legal expenses, the fees of
veterinary surgeons—to name only a few items—all entail a constant
heavy drain on the funds of the Society. It must be remembered
too that the Society’s work does not end with the employment of
inspectors. The Society is to the fore in all movements for the
beneﬁt of animals, and the necessary propaganda work cannot be
carried on without funds. The total expenses of the Society exceed
a half-penny a second all through the year; it is impossible to cut
down those expenses without curtailing the work of the Society for
the protection of animals.

The Council of the Society would therefore say to each reader

of this pamphlet: “ You can help to secure proper protection for
our animals by supporting the Society. WILL YOU HELP? ”

The form below should be ﬁlled in and sent, with a remittance,
to the Chief Secretary, R.S.P.C.A., I05, Jermyn Street, London,
S.W.I., or to the Hon. Secretary of a local Branch.

 

I enclose (Cheque or Postal Order) for g
for the general funds of the R.S.P.C.A.

Name ..................................................................

Address ...... ' ..............

 

 

 

 

 




