The Ofﬁcial Journal of the league for 101, Chandos House, Palmer Street,
the Prohibition of Cruel Sports. Westminster, S.W.l.

Phone: VICTORIA 8496.

MONTHLY: 2/6 per annum

VOL. 1x. N5. 9. SEPTEMBER, I935. 2d. W;

 

CONTENTS.

PAGE

VIEWS AND NEWS. BY THE EDITOR 66 DEER-STALKING IN SCOTLAND

STAG-HUNTING PROTEST AT TAUNTON 6’7 BRANCH ACTIVITIES: LEEDS

Tee Editor accept: no responsiéi/z'ty for opiniom expressed 2'72 Iigrzed articlex.

 

 

VISCOUN T MORLEY, O.M.—“I am quite sure that the time will come when
people will read of the wanton cruelties which we now inﬂict in Sport with
the same wonder and abhorrence with which we now read of the bloody
orgies of savage tribes and the cruel scenes of the Roman amphitheatre.”

 




Page Sixty—six

 

CRUEL SPORTS

September, P935

 

 

VIEWS AND

NEWS

By The Editor, HENRY B. AMOS.

Siag~Hunting Meeting at Taunton

The Public Meeting of Protest held at Taunton
against Stag-hunting and reported on another
page was a great success, and has brought home
to the local hunting fraternity more than ever
the critical condition of their sport.

The passing of Sir Dennis Boles, who was a.
dominating ﬁgure in the Quantock Staghounds
and the West Somerset Foxhounds, and the. re—
signation of Col. W. W. Wiggin, the Master for
17 years of the Devon and Somerset Staghounds,
are events which may have more far—reaching
effect-s on local hunting than is apparent at the
moment.

They may, for one thing, drive all the local
Hunts into a closer co-operation on the grounds
of self-protection, or they may lead to some
spirited young blood rising and throwing himself
into the. breach as their last effort to restore
their fallen fortunes and stave: off the last ditch.

We, of course, should prefer the latter so that
the issue might be increasingly forced into the
fuller blaze of public opinion before being ﬁnally
legislated out of existence.

New Offices

The Secretary writes that he “mentioned some
weeks ago in a circular letter that owing to the
growth of the Movement, the present office
accommodation, comprising two small rooms, has
become. totally inadequate. We are anxious,”
he adds, “ to move into larger premises as early
as possible and most earnestly appeal for dona-
tions towards the £50 required for expenses in
connection with the removal and ofﬁce re-
quisites. ”

The Winter’s Work

Winter will soon be upon us,
many opportunities for meetings, lectures, dis-
cussions, etc., in connection with Literary
Societies, Church Guilds, and Social Reform
Groups generally This is one of the best ways
of educating local opinion and we appeal to our
friends for their active co- operation. A speaker
can usually be arranged for by headquarters if
out-of-pocket expenses and hospitality over the
night are provided, and leaﬂets for distribution
can be obtained at reduced prices on application
to the Secretary.

Badger-Digging

“After digging for over eight hours, a party
from Exmouth succeeded in capturing a full—
sized badger near Blackhill House, on Wood-
bury Common.” So writes the Exeter Express

and, with it

and Echo of July 9th. “ Bro-ck,” it continues,
“ put up a good ﬁght for his liberty. He Was
located about 8 o’clock last night and digging

‘ was carried on incessantly up to 2 a.m., whenihe

was secured and promptly dispatched.”

“ Promptly dispatched”! What does this
mean? Does it mean that the quarry was
promptly killed, or only that he was ‘promptly
dispatched’ to some other district and released,
as badger diggers say usually happens? If
the former, was the victim killed there and then,
or was he taken and let loose in a pig-stye or
other enclosure and there worried to death by
terriers as part of their training in ferocity?
How was he actually “dispatched”? We are
very anxious to know just exactly what happens
in digs of this kind and we shall be grateful for
any information from those who have a ﬁrst— .
hand knowledge. \Ve have repeatedly tried to
be present at a badger- dig but have always been
baulked?

Deer~Stalk~ing in Scotland

The pernicious effect of game-preservation—
Which includes grouse, partridge and pheasant
shooting as well as deer- stalking—in the High—
lands of Scotland, is well exposed in some notes
in the. present issue of 01 1161 Sports culled from
articles by one who has an up— to- date intimate
knowledge of the facts.

Some months ago—in the March issue—we
published extracts from a trenchant article by
Ian Macpherson, ex-M..,P on the cruelty and
stupidity of deer-stalking iii the Highlands. The
facts now adduced show the serious economic
issues involved and help to bring home to us
the monstrous situation that a hardy, industrious
people are being still driven off the land to pro-
vide cruel sport for idle rich people.

The Ernest Bell Library Memorial

Mr. Amos, who has acted as Hon. Secretary
of this Project, greatly regrets to have to an-
nounce that the proposal to form a Library or
Collection of Humanitarian Literature as a
Memorial to- the. late Mr. Ernest Bell has fallen
through owing to the difﬁculty of securing suit-
able housing accommodation. The project is,
therefore, now abandoned.

Anonymous Donation

The Hon. Treasurer desires gratefully to thank
“ Workman, Birkenhead’ for Postal Order
2/6—“ a small contribution towards your noble
work.”

 




