MORE COURAGE, FRIENDS !

(From THE ZOOPHILIST, qu.)'ch, 1890.)

SIR, There is a phase in the vivisection strife which lies
in the background, but needs bringing to the front.

In all great controversies there is on either side always the
silent multitude—those who feel strongly but lack the power
or the opportunity to give expression to their feeling. These
are the strength and the sinew of every cause. An occasion arises
for setting the case forth. In other words, there is a meeting
or a lecture. Speakers are provided, or a speaker, to whom
the power of expression, more or less vivid, is given. The
sympathisers come to listen. What is the speaker without
them ? There are the platform and the chairman, and a
row of chairs on either side of him, and he has just called
upon one of the sitters in those chairs to say what he has to
say. What are all these if there be no rows of heads in front
stretching some way down the room, if not to its walls ? The
hall with its columns, and the gallery with its chandeliers,
are dreary as an audience. But how does this very obvious
fact touch the vivisection strife ‘2 Simply in this way. Upon
the antagonistic side to this hideous thing there are those—
and not a few—who shrink from the revelations which rise up
through the efforts of those others who are looking steadily
down into its dark and evil depths. They will not let these
revelations reach them—no particulars at least; the general
fact without its details. Their nerves are much too highly
strung for this; and-they walk away a little set up and elated
by the keen sensibilities which separate them, as they com-
placently feel, from those of robuster and coarser mould.
But this is only selﬁshness. It is a dislike to being disturbed
and distressed. It is the set purpose not to be disturbed and
distressed, and it will do nothing, or next to nothing. It may
yield its annual guinea—perhaps more. And this is good as
far as it goes ; but it does not go very far. When some shocking
unrighteousness is degrading a nation, and is brought into
startled view here and there by some who have found it out,
and will not let it go on working unseen—~then what happens ?
A society is formed, and guineas are asked for and given.
But the world rolls on, and somnolence creeps over the hearts
and souls of those who were once greatly excited by what
they had heard. The subscriptions come in annually and do
some feeble service. But it will be afeeZ/Ze service until the
indignation which was aroused when those subscriptions
came forth at ﬁrst is kept up to boiling point. And how
shall this ever be if a great many timid spirits turn shrink-
ingly away, saying : “ Do not tell us about these horrors. We
give our money gladly, but you must not rack our nervous
system by lifting the veil and asking us to look upon the
dreadful things within.” For how many years I do not
know anti-slavery societies held their meetings, read their
reports, and exhibited their subscription lists. PeOple heard,
said it was very shocking, sent their cheques, and went
their ways. The eye of the nation was not fired upon that
horrible thing. But there came a time when the eye of the
nation H'llb‘ ﬁxed—when that foulost of stains upon the
English name was made to show its foulness. W e cannot
trace out now the slow process towards this result, but it was
a very sure and real thing at length. The anger of the people

 




2

rose to fever heat, and stood there. All skulkers were
abashed. The heart of the nation was aﬂame. The voice
of England spoke out grandly: “The slave trade is hence-
forth piracy; slave-traders are felons. Let the anti-slavery
societies pass gratefully into oblivion. They have done their
work. Their guineas were useful. Twenty millions are
needed now; let twenty millions be given.” We want and
wait for an outburst like that. It is difﬁcult to compare one
iniquity with another. There is about this which we are
set on eXpunging now one element of cowardly baseness
which that of Wilberforce’s day had not. Its victims are
absolutely helpless. There is no hunting for them and
carrying them over seas (with frightful recklessness as to
suffering indeed), but at great cost and risk. The creatures
wanted by the vivisector are all ready to his hand. They
have no chance of escape from him. And what does he want
with them ‘2 He wants to open their living bodies and subject
them to all the uttermost agonies which a sentient being can
endure, in order that he may ﬁnd out something which he did
not know before, and he tells those who shudder that he hopes
to ﬁnd out that, by means of which some aches and pains of
theirs shall be relieved, and perhaps months or even years
added to their lives. If they that have shuddered cease to
shudder when they hear this, we can but pity them as brought
down and sunken to the level of debased humanity upon
which the vivisector stands. This letter is not addressed to
persons of that stamp. It is addressed to persons of the
keenest feelings upon these things, so keen that it will not
suffer them to know what the evil is for the extermination of
which they believe themselves to long. They are asked to
be more brave and true, to break through the fear of being
rufﬂed, afflicted, horriﬁed, and to hold their ear open to all
which may be heard. At the best the silence is portentous and
awful. Day by day myriads of the unharming creatures of
God, without speech or power of resistance, come into the
hands of men in whose unhumanised soul all compassion is
extinct and all true manliness ; and the deadly work goes on,
and all that rolling tide of unfathomable anguish falls into
the gulf and mystery of silence. But is there no voice?
From year to year a Government report comes out and speaks
in soft and silken phrase to all who care to listen. Let no
one be deluded by that: voice. Surely no one is. Let the vivi-
sectors tell their own tale. . Strip what they say of its scientiﬁc
garb. Look into what remains. If English men and women
of average heart will only in sufﬁcient multitudes do this,
there shall come forth a voice like that of the old slave trade
days, before which our chill Houses of Parliament must by
necessity bow,———a great and mighty voice saying, “In the
name of God this shall not be.”
Faithfully yours,
DAVID WRIGHT.

Stoke Bishop Vicarage, February 10th, 1890.

Published by the VICTORIA STREET SOCIETY FOR THE PROTECTION
OF ANIMALS FROM VIVIsECTION, UNITED WITH THE INTERNATIONAL
AssOOIATION FOR THE TOTAL SUPPRESSION or VIVISECTION,
20, VIOTORJA S'I‘REET, WESTMINSTER, S.W. 2,90,

 




