The Vivisection of Griminals.

'20, TRIANGLE,
BRISTOL,
jmze 167/1, 1896.
DEAR MADAM,

One of the results of the practice of experimentation
upon living animals, is this constant demand made for
human subjects upon which further and more useful
knowledge could certainly be gained, and once the
principle is conceded that men have the right to inﬂict
torture in hope of increasing the area of scientiﬁc know-
ledge, which may beneﬁt human beings, then indeed the
granting of this right to use either animal, pauper, or
hospital patient is not far off, and cannot be logically
refused, and the anti-vivisectors seem to my mind quite
correct when they declare, that there is but a short path
leading from the Vivisector’s laboratory to the prison
cell, the hospital or poorhouse, there can only be one
safeguard for human society, and that is the brave
recognition and faithful obedience to the plain dictates

of humanity “that every thing that feels should be

protected from torture.” Miss Frances Power Cobbe, in

chapter xx. of her Life, points out a great truth which
men and women would do well to remember when she
writes that “the discovery of the Elixir Vitae itself would
be too dearly purchased if the hearts of men were to be
rendered one degree more callous and selﬁsh than they

are now.” Amid the many lessons that the reformers

this letter from the writer, and thought it might be

Miss L). E. Richards received
Useful for Circulatlon.

 




 

( ii. )
are trying to teach society it appears to me that the principle
of Mercy and Justice to all that live will, when understood
and applied by us all in the common affairs of our daily
lives, do very much to lift the burden of sorrow from the
world. It is this Vivisecting spirit of selﬁshness and
cowardice that keeps so many wrongs amongst us,
slaying the consciousness of right, and making it difﬁcult
to battle with wrong. It appears to me that if men
were really anxious to save themselves, they could not
better start about doing it than by the earnest insistance
that this cruelty to those weaker than themselves should
be immediately prohibited. You will see that Mr. J. A.
Knights, a correspondent in the London Echo, has been
defending the proposal that criminals who have been
condemned to death shall be handed over to the physi-
ologist for him to carry on his investigations. There is
no doubt that from a scientiﬁc standpoint there is much
to be said in its favour. Certain it is that human vivisec-
tion might bring us more useful results——it could not
bring us less than animal experiments have done
according to many medical authorities; but those who
defend this practice of vivisection lose sight of the indis-
putable fact that all cruelzfy is bound to degrade both
those who inﬂict it and the community which allows it;
and the opponents of every form of cruelty are pointing
out that they are not only anxious to save the victims
from suffering, but also to keep all from the loss of that
ﬁner feeling of sympathy which is bound to follow the

passive contemplation of torture, and the writer in the




(iii.)
Echo is only voicing a demand which I have heard made
:at many anti-Vivisection meetings, by those who believe
that escape from physical ills can be found by the

inﬂiction of torture, animal and human.

Some months ago a writer in the Bristol Mercmy,
without any reserve, made a plain demand for criminals
to be handed over to the vivisector, and I have in my
possession a letter from a man who claimed to be upon
the staff of three scientiﬁc journals, who, discussing with
:myself the question of Vivisection in a newspaper con-
troversy, wrote personally to me as follows : “ Notwith-
standing all anti-vivisection objection, we shall in time get
the criminals as subjects for experiment.” Here is also
.an extract from an article in a London paper of last year,
to whichI have seen no writer as yet draw attention,
which says, “ It occurs to us that the proper thing to do
is not to justify the slaughter of animals, but to agitate
for the right to utilise criminals for experimental
purposes. The results from experiments would be con-
siderably enhanced if human beings could be substituted
for dogs, rabbits, etc., and if public opinion objects, a
murrain on such public opinion.” To this conclusion it
must ever come, cruel minds are often logical, and here
may lie the hope of the anti-Vivisection cause. Let it be
pointed out that human beings are wanted ; experiments
upon these would in all probability bring useful results ;
shall it be criminal ? pauper, lunatic, or hospital patient :
all these are at hand in abundance, each in turn have

been claimed. My conscience exclaims to such a demand,

 




(iv.)

“' Cruelty is Crime,” whether to human beings or to

animals. It is not only a crime but a blunder, in which

humanity pays a thousand times too dearly for any

possible beneﬁt. There has gone on in England for

many years a reﬁnement of the treatment of its criminals.
This principle is still growing in our midst. There are-
many wise heads and tender hearts who declare that
even to take life by Capital Punishment is not the truest
ideal of expiation for Murder. The Law, however, has
carefully reﬁned its own barbarity, for Mrs. Dyer is.
removed from the prison so that she shall not hear the»
slightest sound attending the execution of her fellow-w
murderers. These are awakened gently upon the,
morning of their doom, and brandy. is offered to nerve
them for the fearful ordeal. The public sentiment
demands that this ﬁnal scene shall be enacted as decently
as possible, but the passion for research is so strong
upon some that, for fancied science’ sake, it seriously
proposes to slowly torture the criminal to death. We
thought the Inquisition was the memory of a terrible
past ; it has its counterpart in the Vivisection' of animals
to—day and its proposed torture of men to-morrow, which
must inevitably come unless the public conscience is

aroused to the whole danger and iniquity.
I am, Madam,
Yours very faithfully,

T. A. \VILLIAMS.
To MISS C. E. RICHARDS,

Hon. Secretary. of: the King's Heath Branch
of the Antl-VIVISCCtiOD Society.

COPIES may be had on applicationWSO for l/6 ; ICU for 2/6.

 




