7‘ "~. n‘.;r.-..._..ﬁ.m '

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

“.3‘

‘ ’.

 

 

&

 ;' CONSIDER?‘YOURQVERDICT z . .

 

 

A]

THEUNIVERSITY JEQNDON 'AN'I‘MAL WELFARE SOCIETY

‘,
1' . . .y
~_,«‘ _ .- - .

Iﬁfﬁmgmf42,_f'roimING'I‘ON SQUARE; 'ILONDQN, w.c.1

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

    
     
 

, .‘gr‘qj pa

“"5 y" . . . ,, - ‘
x...‘ ‘ ‘ . _ ‘v . . _ _ . V".
‘4 ‘ > I 4.1"». ,- , 3..
‘u ‘ , ‘ . ‘ : _ ,

v
u» ' I

" 3 g: . 1
4;: f

 

a
, , a‘
I
Y ‘K
.1,”
3..
,.

.‘ ..' ._
“1'

CAUSE ‘, ;~

[e

I 7 AND :8

 

 

 

FA’sHId‘N :4;

‘ v
. . 1’
'. f . . ‘

‘Itt’e tram?!" a iilﬁ/ 'SLOANE . 1:771 -

1 I, WILTON PLACE, KNIGHTSBRIDéE, WI '

 

 

. .
‘ . a ' 1,
A ~ ' * ._.. '
' :eF'. . _ -. ‘“

 




 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 




THE
ANIMAL YEAR BOOK

VOLUME IV

Hon. Editor
H. E. BARGMANN, Ph.D.

P U B L I s H E D B Y
THE UNIVERSITY OF LONDON ANIMAL WELFARE SOCIETY
AT
THE UNIVERSITY UNION
42, TORRINGTON SQUARE, W.C.I.

Made and Printed in Great Britain by
William Clowes and Sons, Ltd., London and Beccles

I937

 

 




 

“w;

Wee, sleekit, cow’rin, tim’rous beastie, . . . .
I’m truly sorry man’s dominion
Has broken Nature’s social union,
An’ justiﬁes that ill opinion
Which makes thee startle
At me, thy poor earth-born companion,
An’ fellow-mortal!

BURNS.

N

 

 




l PREFACE

l INCE the publication of Volume 3 of the Year Book
l events have been moving quickly for the University of
1 London Animal Welfare Society. The ﬁrst lances in the
: campaign against the gin trap have been broken in the
l Parliamentary lists, and in “Some Current Problems ”
l Captain Hume describes the present position and discusses
' future tactics.
In View of the fact that a meeting of the International
Convention for the Preservation of African Fauna is due
, to be called within the next twelve months, Dr. Kirkman’s
article on “ Africa’s Vanishing Fauna ” is of special interest.
The conservation of fauna throughout the world is engaging
the attention of scientists, naturalists and humanitarians,
3 and we may well hope that at this Convention Great
l Britain will initiate a vigorous campaign for the protection
1 of the unique and interesting animals not only of Africa
but of the Empire as a whole. Australia, to instance but
,3 one other member of the Commonwealth of Nations, is
[j becoming aware that protective measures are necessary to
J preserve the primitive mammals found nowhere else in the
l world, and unless action is taken quickly, the “Tragedy
i of the Possum,” as described by Mr. Stead, will be repeated
with other species as the protagonists.

The progress of the movement for animal welfare, both
at home and abroad, depends very largely on arousing the
interest of the rising generation in its problems. Mr.
Austin’s account of an “Experiment in Humane Educa-
tion ” bears on this subject. The inﬂuence of religion is
also a deciding factor in man’s attitude towards animals.
Many practical diﬂiculties experienced abroad by workers
, in the cause of animals are to be attributed to religious
l prejudice, and this must be fully realised before a solution
‘ can be attempted. For instance, the Hindu belief in the

l
“ 111
l

 

 




 

 

iv PREFACE

transmigration of souls, as Dr. Smith points out, precludes
the killing of any animal even in the extremity of suffering,
and has led to the establishment of the homes of refuge for
sick animals described by Mrs. Mews in her report from
the Bombay Presidency.

The books reviewed in the special section aremany and
various. Dr. Knight has made herself solely responsible
for the arduous work of collecting the books, and co-
ordinating books and reviewers. It is to be much regretted
that pressure of work has brought about her retirement from
the General Editorship, but fortunately she has been able
to remain associated with the present volume through the
book section.

The Council of the University of London Animal Welfare
Society express their grateful thanks to all who have con-
tributed in anyway to the production of this book. As in
the previous volumes, every endeavour to ensure accuracy
has been made, and criticisms by readers who detect any
mis—statement will be welcomed. Thanks are also due
to the following publishers, who have generously sent books
for review : Messrs. George Allen & Unwin, Ltd. ; Allman
85 Son, Ltd. ; the Australian Book Co., Ltd. ; D. Appleton
Century Book Co., New York; A. & C. Black, Ltd.;
B. T. Batsford, Ltd.; Blackie & Sons, Ltd. ; Jonathan
Cape; Constable 8: Co., Ltd.; the Cresset Press, Ltd.;
J. M. Dent & Sons, Ltd.; Duckworth, Ltd.; Faber &

Faber, Ltd. ; Gay & Bancock, Ltd. ; Grayson & Grayson,

Ltd. ; Geo. G. Harrap & Co., Ltd. ; Jarrolds & Co., Ltd. ;
Herbert Jenkins, Ltd. ; Lovat Dickson, Ltd. ; Longmans,
Green 8: Co., Ltd. ; the Macmillan Co., New York;
T. Nelson & Sons, Ltd. ; Putnam, Ltd. ; Rich 8: Cowan,
Ltd. ; Walker Bros., Ltd. ; Ward, Lock 8?. Co., Ltd.

HELENE E. BARGMANN.




 

 

CONTENTS

. THE TRAGEDY OF THE POSSUM

from Notes by David G. Stead.

. AFRICA’S VANISHING FAUNA

by A. H. B. Kirkman, F.R.C.S.E., F.Z.S.

. THE INFLUENCE OF RELIGIONS ON MAN’S

ATTITUDE TOWARDS ANIMALS .
by F. Harold Smith, D.D.

. AN EXPERIMENT IN HUMANE EDUCATION

by M. D. Austin, F.R.E.S.

. ANIMALS ABROAD .

Edited by F. Jean Vinter, M. D. B. S.
(I ) AFRICA
by Nina M. Hosali, M. SC.

(2) ALBANIA
by D. R. Oakley Hill.

(3) CHINA .
by John Alexander.

(4) CYPRUS
(5) GERMANY

(6) GREECE .
by William Miller, M. A. ,LL. D. ,I4 ..R Hist. S. .,
F. B .A.

(7) INDIA

(a) AMRITSAR
by Kathleen Vine, M. D.

(b) BOMBAY PRESIDENCY .
by Betty V. Mews.

V

II

35

51
52
57

59

63

64
65

69
69

72

 




 

 

vi CONTENTS

(8) ITALY
by Leonard Haw kSley.

(9) JAPAN (KOREA)
by Mrs. Gerald Bonwick.

(Io) PALESTINE (JERUSALEM) .

(11) PORTUGAL
by S. G. West, BA.

6. SOME CURRENT PROBLEMS. .
(1 1) THE CAMPAIGN AGAINST THE GIN TRAP IN GREAT

BRITAIN
byC. W. Hume, M.C. ,.BSC.

(2) OPERATIONS WITHOUT ANZESTHETICS: A POSSIBLE
USE FOR X RAYS . .
by W. M. Levitt, MD.

(3) COCK-FIGHTING IN THE PAS DE CALAIS
by C. W. Hume, M.C., B.SC.

(4) PREPARATION OF VACCINE LYMPH
by F. Jean Vinter, M.D., BS.

(5) ELECTROCUTION OF 'CATS AND DOGS
by C. W. Hume, M. C., B.Sc.

(6) ON KEEPING MONKEYS .
by R. Glave Saunders, M. R. C. V. S, F. Z. S.

(7) NOTE ON CALCIUM CYANIDE . . .
by]. E. Ramsbottom, D.Sc., Ph.D., and
K. Ramsbottom, B. SC.

7. BOOK REVIEWS . .
Edited by C. 1V1. Knight, D. Lit.

8. APPENDIX: the University Of London Animal
Welfare Society . . . . .

76
82

88
91

95
95

101
104
106
107

112

115

121




THE TRAGEDY OF THE POSSUM

From Notes supplied by DAVID G. STEAD
Hon. Sec., Wild Life Preservation Society of Australia

USTRALIA has a unique and very interesting fauna,

the most striking feature of which is the predominance
of primitive mammals over the more highly specialised
types. Egg-laying mammals, or Monotremes, occur nowhere
else in the world but in Australia, and the curious pouched
Marsupials are conﬁned to this continent, with the exception
of the single family of American opossums, the Dz'del—
phyidae.

Any threat of extermination to any part of this fauna
should, therefore, be averted both on humanitarian and
scientiﬁc grounds, and it is of ﬁrst importance that these
unique mammals should be protected from all dangers
which may bring about their extinction. The introduction
by early colonists of European mammals more highly
specialised than the indigenous Australian types has led
to the disappearance of some of these primitive forms,
which on the whole lack the power of ﬁghting and sur-
mounting the changing conditions attendant on the colonisa-
tion of this vast continent. Many of them, such as the
Dormouse Opossum and the Bandicoot, fall victims to the
usurping cats and foxes, and even the rabbit is a menace to
the burrowing marsupials, like the Bilby.

The Common or Bushy-tailed Opossum, or Brush-
tailed Phalanger, T rz'chosurus vulpecula, has been stated
by Professor Wood-Jones (3) to be the only marsupial
capable of successfully adapting itself to the rapidly changing
environment. Consequently, it is widely distributed and
abundant. The Possum, to give it the popular name
which has also been adopted by naturalists to distinguish
this marsupial from the opossums of America, is about as

I

 

 




 

 

2 THE ANIMAL YEAR BOOK

large as a cat and is covered with thick, close, woolly fur,
“ grizzled grey in colour as a general rule, with many longer
black or white hairs.” It is nocturnal in habit and vege-
tarian in diet, and, owing to its adaptability, it is well
established throughout Australia, and is to be found in the
suburbs and even in the towns themselves. Though
typically arboreal, it has become “ independent of the
large eucalypti, in the holes of which it had its natural
home,” and will “ thrive in treeless areas and even takes to
rabbit burrows ” for shelter. As its intelligence is low, it
is easily trapped or snared, and is readily tamed and shows
no resentment to captivity.

There are two natural limiting factors to its distribution
in areas where suitable food is available: (I) the shelter
to be found during the day, and (2) the activities of its two
great enemies, the monitor lizard and the eagle. The
damage done to agriculture by the opossum appears to
be conﬁned to fruit trees and young plantations. Mr.
L. O. Tripp, in a report to the Government of New Zea-
land, where opossums have been introduced, states : “ the
damage to New Zealand forests is very negligible. .
Opossums may in my opinion be liberated with advantage
in all districts, except where the forest is fringed with
orchards or plantations.” (1)

There are two well—marked geographical races of COmmon
Opossum in Southern Australia, which differ considerably
in colour from the silver-grey of the type. In north-east
Queensland there is a bright reddish-brown form, while
in south-west Australia there is a black type ; white
animals are also not uncommon, and in Tasmania about
20 per cent. are a dark, rich brown. All these varieties
are included within the genus Trichosums and each colour
variety will breed true. It is from them that most of the
opossum fur of the world’s markets is obtained, and this
fur can be worked up to pass as “skunk,” “beaver” or
“Adelaide chinchilla.” Other members of the opossum
family are also hunted for their pelts, such as the Ring-
tailed Opossum, Pseudochz'rus Zam'ginosus, which is widely




.. .4
‘ V: r-g.
. as /

'2 ﬁnd 2917f 0L

(7917 "00 53 dme 9 ‘02:) f0 uogssguuad (Cg)
Him WWHON ‘(Ulmadzna snmsozpm) WDSSOdO Nowwoo

 




 

 

 

 

 




THE TRAGEDY OF THE POSSUM 3

distributed throughout the hilly and mountainous country
of Australia and Tasmania.

Although the opossum can maintain its position in the
changing countryside of Australia, it is in need of protection
against the most serious menace in the world—man.
The Australian fur—traders have the distinction, to quote
Wood-Jones again, of being “utterly destructive, with
no regard for the conservation of the fur-bearing animals.
. . . Any creature which has a pelt of commercial value
must needs be protected by legal enactments to prevent
its utter extermination. The animals, whose pelts are
marketed, are not bred or artiﬁcially protected in cap-
tivity ; they are wild animals slaughtered for their skins.”

Since 1910 there has been an active campaign headed by
the Wild Life Preservation Society of Australia to accord
adequate protection to the opossum, and to check the
tremendous slaughter by the fur—traders. The work of this
society to obtain rational and humane treatment for the
fauna and ﬂora of Australia, so that at least a semblance of
its wild life may be preserved for the future, is well known.
It has recently been instrumental in obtaining complete
protection of the Koala or Native Bear, thus saving this
unique creature from extermination.

Legislation now exists in all the states of Australia for
the protection of the opossum. In Victoria, Western
Australia, South Australia, New South Wales and Tas-
mania, opossums are protected throughout the year, unless
an open season is declared. In Queensland close seasons
are ﬁxed, sometimes for the whole year, sometimes for a
deﬁnite number of months, e.g. in 1936 the close season,
which since 1932 had extended over the whole year, was
declared in the Government Gazette of May, 1936, to run
from the 16th of that month until June 30 and from August 1
until December 31, inclusive, July being therefore an
“ open ” month.

The clauses of these Animal and Game Protection Acts
are very similar in all the states and have been revised from
time to time. Lists of protected birds and animals are

 

 

 




 

 

 

4. THE ANIMAL YEAR BOOK

issued, and penalties graded from £20 to £2 can be imposed
for each infringement of the law, and ﬁnes of £10 to 103.
can be levied for every animal killed. Inspectors, or
ofﬁcers appointed under the Act, can supervise districts,
examine traps, conﬁscate skins taken during the close
season, and they have powers of search should illicit storage
of skins be suspected. During an open season dealers’
licences and trappers’ permits must be obtained, and must
be produced on demand. The cost of these varies slightly,
a dealer’s licence being generally £10, with an additional
£5 for every agent’s licence required, and a trapper’s
permit being £1 or 103. Retail dealers have to obtain a
registration certiﬁcate at the cost of £1.

Royalties must be paid on each skin taken. The amount
of the royalty is either ﬁxed per skin, as in Tasmania, Where
it is 6d. for each skin of the Common Opossum and 1d.
for each Ring—tailed Opossum; or may be charged as a
pr0portion of the gross selling price, as in Queensland,
where it is ﬁxed at 5 per cent. Each skin before it is put
on the market must be marked with the Government stamp,
to show that it has been inspected and the royalty paid.
This involves the keeping of detailed books by the trappers
and dealers, which must be submitted to the inspectors on
demand, or at stated intervals, and at the end of the open
season.

Trapping or snaring is the authorised method of capture ;
the use of potassium cyanide is prohibited; and it is
illegal for any trapper to store cyanide. Traps must be
inspected regularly every thirty-six hours and any animal
caught removed.

Existing reserves and protected areas are to be regarded
as sanctuaries, in which, unless under a written order, the
killing of an animal is prohibited, the penalty for infringe-
ment of the law being £20 to £2, with an additional £10
to £1 for every animal killed.

Landowners are allowed to kill opossums by means other
than poison for purposes of crop-protection, and natives
may take them for food.

 




THE TRAGEDY OF THE POSSUM 5

Under the Acts, the Governor of the state has full powers
of administration, regulation or amendment, and can
declare an open season if it is deemed desirable. He also
arranges the issue of permits and settles the fees and
penalties to be paid. The export of skins is also under
Government supervision; dealers supply particulars of
each consignment of skins forty-eight hours before transit,
together with copies of invoices, etc.

It will be seen from this general résumé of the Animal,
Bird and Game Acts of the different states that machinery
for the complete protection of the opossum is in existence
throughout the country. Government control can ensure
that open seasons are declared only when the number of
opossums in a certain district has increased unduly ; and
can limit the number of permits issued and the quantity of
skins taken. The methods of killing can also be effectively
supervised, and illicit poisoning or shooting heavily
penalised.

Protective legislation was introduced very largely on
account of public protest against the enormous slaughter of
fur-bearing animals, but in spite of legal enactments, the
widespread killing of opossums continues. Open seasons
are declared ﬁrst in one state and then in another, or in
several concurrently, and during the close seasons the law
is deliberately evaded and broken. The main beneﬁt
derived from the passing of the Animal, Bird and Game
Acts-would appear to be the more accurate statistics available
of the number of skins exported annually.

In Queensland, prior to the Animals and Birds Act of
1921, the Minister for Agriculture and Stock admitted
that during the season 1919*20 no less than 5,250,000
opossums and 1,000,000 koala had been killed and. traced
through the markets. The Annual Report for 1920—21
of the Wild Life Preservation Society of Australia states
further that the Minister also admitted that the “ofﬁcial
record did not nearly represent the stupendous slaughter
which occurred.” Later the, Society traced “ about
7,500,000 skins, including the ofﬁcially recorded totals and

 

 




 

 

 

 

6 THE ANIMAL YEAR BOOK

others which had been sent from Queensland through
various sources, and the Minister accepted this total as
probably not too large an estimate for the 1919—20 period.”

It is true that this season represents the supreme slaughter.
Mr. Stead says that “ notwithstanding the destruction which
has taken place since, nothing like this number has been
marketed or handled again, in one short period.” Many
who are sympathetic to the Wild Life Preservation Society’s
campaign comfort themselves wrongly “ with the thought
that where there are (or were) such numbers present, there
can be no fear of extinction. Nothing could be farther
from the truth. Statistics show a downhill movement in
available numbers, if the exports and sales for a period of
years are considered rather than the returns for the nominal
open seasons, for it must be borne in mind that the open
season is always a ‘ save—face ’ to cover the sale of skins
already illicitly collected.”

Furthermore, opossums breed relatively slowly, contrary
to the general rule among small mammals. According
to Wood—Jones, they mate once a year (though they have
been said to mate twice), in May or June, and only a single
offspring is born. The young leave the pouch in August
or ' September, can lead an independent existence by
November, and are ready to breed in the following year.
The breeding season falls in the winter months, and coin-
cides, unfortunately, with the period when the pelt is in
the best condition and commands the highest marketvalue.
Consequently, the open seasons are declared for those
months when the young are entirely dependent on the
mother, so that a high rate of slaughter of the next generation
as well as of the present one results.

In the ﬁght to obtain reasonable treatment and protection
for the opossum, continual vigilance is necessary. Refer-
ence has already been made to the illicit collection of skins.
There is no doubt that trapping goes on whether the season
is open or closed, and when a large quantity of skins has
accumulated and the overseas market is “ sound,” an agita-
tion for an open season is begun, so that the pelts can be

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

THE TRAGEDY OF THE POSSUM 7

sold publicly and exported. This was admitted in 1929
by the Premier of Queensland, who wrote as follows to the
Wild Life Preservation Society justifying the declaration
of an open season from July 8 to August 7 : “ This action
was only taken . . . upon deﬁnite information received
that the trapping of possums had been going on for several
months, although the season was closed.” Presumably
the enforcement of the law over vast tracts of country by
patrols and game wardens would be too costly to be readily
undertaken, but law—breakers are obviously encouraged to
continue their illicit trapping if they have the “ practical
certainty of the cover of the law for a short period in which
they can get rid of their skins.” In 1929, as a result of the
nominal one month open season in Queensland, 7oo,ooo
skins were taken. Such an enormous number could not
have been collected in the time if an extended period of
illicit trapping had not preceded the open season. There
is also evidence to show that even sanctuaries and national
parks are invaded, with the consequent destruction of fauna
of all kinds. Heavy penalties have been enforced in some
states with very salutary effects, but in others the law
continues to be broken.

Trapping is the only method of capture sanctioned by
the Animal, Bird and Game Acts, but it is rarely resorted
to nowadays, as it is unproﬁtable. The trappers’ camps
are surrounded with set traps and legitimate accoutre-
ments ; but other and more deadly methods are employed,
although they are illegal. Intensive shooting with riﬂe
and headlight accounts for many of the trappers’ big hauls.
Against this method the opossums have practically no
chance of escape. Bait poisoned with potassium cyanide
is a method much used during the so-called “close”
season as well as during the open season. Not only do the
opossums fall victims to this terrible poison, but much
damage is done to live-stock, and complaints from farms
all over the country are received. Legislation to control
the sale and use of cyanide is urgently required. Mr.
Stead has suggested that it should be sold only through the

 




 

 

 

 

 

8 THE ANIMAL YEAR BOOK

Police Department and its branches after a sworn statement
had been made as to its intended use. Unauthorised
persons would thus have little chance of obtaining the
poison. A system of permit-issue is sometimes adopted
instead of declaring an open season. Unfortunately, these
permits are not issued by a central ofﬁce, but local authorities
are given the necessary powers. The Wild Life Preserva-
tion Society has fought for years to establish a reasonable
.permit system, but it has always insisted that the only safe
method is for a central ofﬁce to grant permits, only after
every factor in the case has been carefully considered,
particularly the reports from local ofﬁcers.

Various reasons are brought forward to justify the
declaration of an open season. (1) Reports are sent in to
the Government from different districts claiming great
destruction of food-crops by opossums ; often these reports
are untrue, since no such food-crops occur in the district
at all. (2) An open season is said to assist the unemployed.
It is difﬁcult to understand how this can be. A con—
siderable outlay is required to purchase the necessary
outﬁt, which comprises a permit, two or three horses, 3
vehicle of some kind, riﬂes, ammunition, headlight and
food for the season. Few unemployed men can afford to
ﬁnance such a venture. Those who beneﬁt from an open
season are the men of the far bush, who have the right
equipment and who are familiar with every part of the
country in which they hunt. (3) It has also been urged by
the fur-traders themselves that a close season might
“cause buyers to seek skins other than possum, and a
fashion in other skins would develop, ultimately resulting
in the exclusion of possum skins altogether.”

There is evidence that the fur markets are becoming
glutted with opossum skins, and that the overseas trade
is ready to accept only a limited number of pelts; con-
Sequently the prices paid for skins are not likely to be high.
However, in June, 1936, it was ofﬁcially stated that the
Queensland Government declared an open season beginning
on July I. This announcement aroused much concern

 

 




 

 

THE TRAGEDY OF THE POSSUM 9

and criticism. In replying to a protest that this open season
should not apply to the whole country, the Minister of
Agriculture -and Stock said that “ an open season over a
restricted area would not be practicable. If small areas
were opened, skins from outside sources would be intro—
duced and marketed as the harvest from those districts.
No good would be served by the restriction, which would
incur heavy policing costs without worth-while results.

. . There had been a suggestion that each state should
take it in turn to open seasons, but it had been abandoned
because it was found that skins would be transferred from
one state to another for marketing.”

It is clear that although legislation for the protection of
the opossum exists, it is to no one’s interest to enforce the
law. Although the Government admits the destruction
of the animal to be so great that its conservation is desirable,
pressure can always bring about the declaration of an open
season, when it is desired. In 1932, the year following the
last open season in Queensland for which returns are
available, the Minister for Agriculture and Stock stated
that in the past four seasons not less than 7,250,000 skins
had been sold, and that consequently there would not be
an open season for opossums that year. Yet the Trade
Returns show that 4,980 skins were exported from Queens-
land in 1932—3 3, in spite of the so—called close season.

The legitimate restriction of fauna where it is essential
for the development of the resources of the country must
be advocated by all, as the Wild Life Preservation Society
points out, but to many men it is not necessary for the
animal to be either noxious or destructive before it is
attacked and slaughtered. If money can be made from its
exploitation, this reason alone is sufﬁcient for its destruction.
The fact that each generation is the trustee of the country’s
natural heritage is forgotten, very often until it is too late
for conservation to be effective. But in Australia the
machinery for the control of fauna has already been set up,
and in the primitive mammals Australia has a unique
“heritage for which it must accept responsibility.” Is it

 




IO THE ANIMAL YEAR BOOK

too much to hope that public opinion, which urges that
trusteeship of this fauna shall become active and real, can
supply the force to set the machine in effective and per-
petual motion P

BIBLIOGRAPHY

I. L15 SOUEF, A. 8., AND BURRELL, II. The Il'z'ld Animals of
Ausz‘ralasz'a. 1926. Harrap.

2. STEAD,D.G. The Tragedy oft/1e Possum. 1937. Australian
Wild Life. Vol. I. No.3.

3. WOOD—JONES, F. Mammals of South Auslralz'a. Pt. I.
1923. Adelaide.

4. Oversea Trade. 1920—35. Australian Statistics of Oversea
Imports and Exports and Customs and Excise Revenue,
issued by the Commonwealth Bureau of Census and
Statistics.

5. Australian Government Statutes. Victoria, Queensland, New
South Wales, Western Australia, South Australia,
Tasmania.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




AFRICA’S VANISHING FAUNA
by A. H. B. KIRKMAN, F.R.C.S.E., F.Z.S.*

HE object of this short article is to make known with

no uncertain voice the tragedy of the veld, of the
forest and of the river as evidenced by the rapid disap-
pearance during the past few decades of many of those ﬁne
animals which in the eyes of the naturalist, the biologist
and the sportsman are Africa. Civilised man is the
villain of the piece, for directly and indirectly he is respon-
sible for their disappearance. Before the white man’s
advent, indigenous African man did not cause their exter-
mination, and no balance of nature was disturbed by his
presence, since his methods of killing, although as cruel
as nature’s own, were primitive. The white man and his
ﬁrearms revolutionised the state of affairs, and wholesale
slaughter for sport and money was introduced, and has
been reSponsible for decimating and, in some cases, exter-
minating much of Africa’s fauna.

The tragedy continues. Excuses innumerable are put
forward in mitigation of this continued depletion, and signs
are only too evident that unless the responsible nations take
action together, within the next few years the story of the
quagga and the blaauwbok will be repeated with reference
to many other animals. Notwithstanding general academic
interest in biological and zoological circles and the great
love of animals which is a recognised characteristic of
the British people, it is nevertheless a little surprising to

* The thanks of the writer are due to C. W. Hobley, Esq., C.M.G.,
late Secretary of the Society for the Preservation of the Fauna of the
Empire, for expert opinion on the status of several animals; to_ Dr.
Tordis Graim, Secretary to the Executive Committee, International
Ofﬁce for the Protection of Nature, Brussels, for help in animal
geography ; to C01. A. H. W. Haywood for notes on the pigmy hippo—
potamus; and to Mr. R. W. Hayman, Natural History Museum, for
library assistance.

2 II

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

12 THE ANIMAL YEAR BOOK

ﬁnd how small is the practical sympathy shown for the
preservation of species outside the British Isles. In the
case of Africa, Britain is the moral guardian of some half of
the big animals of that continent, yet it must be acknowledged
that the United States of America, which have no custodian
rights, and at least one other European nation take more
interest than the home country in the conservation of
fauna.

Since the colonisation of Africa by Europeans began,
some 136 years or so ago, two animals characteristic of
its fauna have been exterminated: these are the quagga
and the blaauwbok. Of these, the quagga (15—21) was
allied to the zebras and of the bodily proportions of a stout
pony ; it was amenable to domestication and was occasionally
used as a draft animal by the early Dutch settlers. The last
of the race of quaggas died in the Amsterdam Zoological
Gardens in 1882. The blaauwbok (”‘14) was one of the
larger antelope ; specimens of it can be seen in the Museums
of Paris, Stockholm, Upsala, Vienna and Leyden. The fate
of these two animals is likely to be shared in the near future
by many other indigenous African species.

The table on pp. 14. and I 5 has been arranged to show as
nearly as possible the danger of the present position, the
animals most seriously menaced heading the list.

Apart from the animals thus tabulated, there are other
species of big animals which are in danger through over-
hunting, and which should be carefully watched, so that
immediate action for conservation can be taken when it
becomes necessary (see Appendix). N o mention has been
made of the carnivora as a class, although lions have been
ruthlessly hunted in the past in many states. It is generally
recognised that With the disappearance of. the herbivora on
which they live, their numbers will become automatically
reduced, and gradual extinction will result. The smaller
carnivora are in no special danger, either through their
food-supply failing or through excessive hunting.

 

 




 

QUAGGA (Equus quagga).
(Rowland Ward, Copyright.)

To face page 12. .

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

AFRICA’s VANISHING FAUNA 13

(I) FACTORS CONTRIBUTING TO FAUNA
DESTRUCTION

One of the chief sources of danger to the African fauna
must undoubtedly be attributed to what is popularly known
as “opening up the country.” Unfortunately, this has ’
been allowed to proceed without due regard to the rights
and privileges of the indigenous races, both beast and
man. 7

In the early days of the colonisation of South Africa,
hippopotamus, elephant, lion, giraffe, rhinoceros and
teeming herds of Springbok, blesbok, wildebeste, quagga
and mountain zebra were so plentiful for some hundreds of
miles to the north of the Cape that the possibility of exter-
mination could not have entered the minds of the colonists.
But in the wake Of the settlers came the big—game hunters,
and they in their turn became commercially interested in
ivory and were responsible for decimating elephant and
other pachyderms. As the white men pushed northwards,
the heavy toll was levied on an ever-increasing area, and
to-day between the Cape and the Zambesi not I per cent.
of the original stock of game remains, and the great pachy-
derms have nearly disappeared, except in the Kruger
National Park and other reserves.

Firearms were originally only in the hands of the
Europeans, and consequently the Dutch and British
(chieﬂy the former) must be held responsible for the per-
secution of the wild animals which inhabited the country
to the south of the Orange River. Certain species were
practically exterminated long before the beginning of the
twentieth century, and the numbers of others were so
reduced that the stock has been unable to recover. This
ruthless slaughter was not undertaken for sportm—meat and
hides being the objects.

In East Africa the game animals enjoyed a longer period
of immunity from intensive persecution, and when the
great animals of South Africa were already pitifully depleted,
enormous numbers of pachyderms, giraffe, zebra and many
kinds of antelope inhabited the plains and forest of Kenya

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

.___—— .

N

1
I
a
I
l

Present Frequency of
Occurrence

Present Range

Former Range

Remarks

 

l
i Name of Animal ‘
l
l
l

Bubal Hartebeest
(32,37)

Zebm1(24, 32,
39)-

 

 

l
Bontebok, a species
1 of antelope (15,
17,28)
1

Black Wildebeest
or White-tailed
Gnu (15—18).

Abyssinian Ibex
(32, 37).

Mountain Nyala
(37)-

Wild Ass (32, 37)

 

 

1
' l
i
f

i
t
i Cape Hartebeest
l‘ (15, 18, 20, 21,
‘. 27)‘

Its existence is dubious.

only known to exist.

l
l
l
l
1 Mountain or True: Two herds of 20 or 25
1

Two herds of 44 and 23
only exist and these

are preserved.

c. 300.

Exists only because it
inaccesmble

inhabits
country.

Exists only because it
inaccessible

inhabits
country.
Rare animal.

Existence precarious.

Morocco and Algeria,
in inaccessible deserts,
bordering on moun-
tains.

Cape Colony,
country.

I
l
l
l
l
hilly

Bontebok NationalPark
and on one private
farm.

Orange River Colony
on private farms.

 

Simien Mountains,
North Abyssinia.

South Abyssinia, hilly
country, in an area of
c. 100 square miles.

In small areas of north-
east Sudan and Eritrea.

I
\ Kalihari National Park.
1 Private owners.

I

 

 

North Africa, from
Morocco to Egypt.

Angola, Damara-
land, Namaqua-
land and Cape
Colony.

 

Cape Colony to
Orange River.
Very plentiful.

Cape Colony to
Orange River.
Very plentiful.

Has been “ rare ”
for many years.

 

Has been “ rare ”
for many years.

Plentiful in Sudan,
Eritrea and Soma- l
liland. '

Cape Colony. Very l

plentiful. “

Brought to the verge of
extinction by nomadic
tribes hunting with
modern weapons.

Animal Welfare Society of
South Africa has this year
succeeded in inﬂuencing
the South African Govern-
ment to preserve one
troup.

Saved from extinction by
action of the South Afri-
can Government and
sympathetic attitude of
two Dutch farmers.

Formerly plentiful on the
veld. Ceased to exist in
the Wild state by the be-
ginning of the Boer War.

In danger of extinction as
the natives get better
riﬂes.

In danger of extinction as
the natives get better
riﬂes.

Closely protected, but is
in danger of extermina-
tion.

In danger of extermination.

14

THE ANIMAL YEAR BOOK

 




IO

II

12

I3
14

I5

16

I7

 

Giant Sable An-
telope (37).

Pigmy Hippopota-
mus.

White Rhinoceros
(15, 16, 18—20,
28).

Giraffe (I5, 18,
21).

Okapi (9).
Gorilla (I—I I).

Chimpanzee (1—4,
9, I I).

Hippopotamus
(12—22,33,35l

Elephant ( I 2-29,
33-35)

 

In danger of extinction.

May be more widely
distributed than pre-
viously believed.

A few hundred sur-
VlVOI‘S.

Occurrence much cir-
cumscrlbed.

Unknown.

c. 3,000.
20,000—-30,000.

Much reduced of recent
years.

Several tens of thou-
sands.

 

Luando - Quanga Re- '

serve, Angola.

Sierra
eastern

North - east
Leone and

mouths of River Niger.

Zululand, in the Um-
fulosi and Hluhluwe re-
serves, and in small

areas west of the White
Nile.

East Central Africa.

North—east '
Congo

North-east Belgian
Congo and Cameroons.

Belgian

Equatorial forest zone
from Gambia to Tan-
ganyika.

Tanganyika and Central
African lakes, uncom-
mon elsewhere.

Belgian Congo, Uganda,
Tanganyika, Kenya,
becoming rare else—
where.

 

 

Very plentiful be-
tween the Orange
and Zambesi
Rivers. Also oc-
curred west of the
White Nile.

Over greater part
of Africa, except
Congo forest zone.

N orth—east Belgian
Congo.

Probably through-
out the Congo
forest belt.

In nearly all large
rivers of Africa.

Nearly all
Africa.

over

 

Scheduled as protected,
but this has not been
made effective.

Should be protected, as
they are much sought
after for animal col-
lections.

Docile and non-pugna-
cious. Protected, but is
extensively “ poached ”
for its horn. Umfulosi
reserve may be abolished
by tsetse-ﬂy campaign.

Gentle and inoffensive.

Not in immediate danger.

Protected by British and
Belgian. Governments.
Hunted in the Cameroons.

—..

Much hunted as a menace
to agriculture. In danger
of extermination. .

Largely exterminated .in
many parts. Protection
imperative.

[The reader is referred to the Appendix for short descriptive notes on the various animals.]
[Numbers in heavy type refer to the Bibliography.]

AFRICA’S VANISHING FAUNA

15

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

16 THE ANIMAL YEAR BOOK

and Tanganyika. Depletion on a large scale began only
in the ﬁnal years of the last century, and was then due to
activities of big game hunters in search of ivory. At that
time ivory from 20,000 elephants was being sold annually
in one big European market. This was chieﬂy shipped
from the East Coast, i.e. from British and German East
Africa, Italian and British Somaliland, and Portugese East
Africa. Many commercial big game hunters were at work,
and James Sutherland (29) in his book The Adventures
of an Elephant Hunter tells us that in ten years (the early
years of the twentieth century) he, personally, killed 447
bull elephants, apart from females. Sutherland was but
one of many hunters not only dealing in ivory from elephants
shot personally but securing large quantities from beasts
killed by natives. Until comparatively recently, especially
in Central Africa, many hunters and traders have been
responsible for arming natives for the purpose of killing
elephant and rhinoceros, the tusks and horns of which were
exported under the white man’s supervision. It is only
during the last two or three years that the illicit trade
through Italian Somaliland in rhinoceros horn, from
animals killed in the north-east Congo and in the Anglo-
Egyptian Sudan, has been stopped. Information from
different localities makes it quite clear that traders, working
in unison with natives either hunting in their old barbaric
way or armed with modern ﬁrearms, have been responsible
during the last forty years for the destruction of many of
' the commercially valuable animals throughout East and
Central Africa.

To instance the case of elephants alone, news of their
greatest slaughter comes from the Belgian Congo, and
although no records are published of the actual numbers
killed, from estimates based on the amount of ivory exported
annually it is obvious the numbers are immense. The
Belgian Ministry of Colonies states that the number of
elephants killed each year lies between 20,000 and 25,000
the estimate being derived from the weight of the tusks
exported. In this region of Africa the ivory trade is still

 




 

 

' A. mm—th airs-n. .,r,~:r~~vr~47 A“.

AFRICA’S VANISHING FAUNA 17

in the hands of private people; the tusks are of great
commercial value and the elephant meat is sold to the natives
working in different mining activities. In French Equatorial
Africa the number of elephants killed annually amounts to
at least 3,000, while in Uganda, Tanganyika and Kenya
combined the ﬁgure reaches the neighbourhood of 5,500
per annum. In the remaining states where elephants con-
tinue to be hunted for various causes, a fair estimate of the
numbers killed annually would be 3,000. Thus the total
number of elephants killed throughout Africa is approxi-
mately 36,500, and this ﬁgure is probably a reasonable
estimate for the whole of the continent.

In North Africa, from Morocco to Egypt, the destruction
of fauna generally has continued in such regions as are
accessible to human beings, and during the past hundred
years there has been great depletion of the bubal hartebeest,
the Barbary deer, the wild sheep, the ibeX and some
gazelles. The difﬁcult country, both mountain and desert,
has been responsible for the salvation of several species.

West Africa calls for special mention, for in these parts
is being enacted a tragedy of persecution, cruelty and
extermination of big fauna only realised by those vitally
interested. Here there is a small white population en—
deavouring to control an immense native one. Only
small funds are at the disposal of the respective states for
legislative purposes, and the bulk of the exchequer has to
come from the natives themselves. The small number of
white hunters is in itself a great obstacle to game preserva-
tion. The local colonial administrators and their staffs
are not, generally speaking, either naturalists or hunters,
and their time is too much occupied in other ways to
encourage voluntary work, in which they may not be
interested. The Forestry Departments (where they exist)
are not empowered to deal with the question of fauna, and
ﬁnally our own Colonial Ofﬁce and those of other countries
take little or no interest in the subject. As a result of this
short-sighted policy, the game animals of West Africa are
being rapidly depleted. beyond the hope of recovery, and in

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

18 THE ANIMAL YEAR BOOK

some parts such animals as elephant, rhinoceros, hippo—
potamus, buffalo, giraffe and some antelope have already
disappeared. The natural activity of barbarous peoples
in possession of modern ﬁrearms and operating with only
nominal restrictions (the laws published are impossible to
put into force, owing to the inadequate policing of these
vast territories) is responsible for this depletion, and the
natives are helped in their activities by the comparative
ease in some parts of the country with which the carcasses
can be conveyed to the thickly populated coast for sale.

These details of the depletion of the big animals of
West Africa are well known, and although excused in
certain quarters are vouched for as being accurate by
Lieut.-Col. Shorthose and other authorities.

(2) NATIVE SPORTING RIGHTS

The African indigenous races with a few exceptions have
never looked upon animal food as a mainstay of existence ;
it has been eaten and enjoyed when procurable, but to say
that even 5 per cent. Of the native food was, before the
advent of the white man, the meat of wild animals, would be
an exaggeration. The argument, therefore, so often adduced
that wild animals belong to the native, who should be allowed
ﬁrearms with which to kill them for his own consump-
tion, is clearly not valid. Those who know the African
native and his ways recognise that his invariable custom,
when an animal is killed, is to indulge in an orgy of meat-
eating, which is the worst possible thing for him, followed
as it may be by a semi-comatose state lasting for two or
three days. In several states under British and other
administration the killing of game animals with ﬁrearms
by natives is a generality, and the native is allowed to use a
riﬂe on payment to the revenue of one pound or so. The
African has not enough foresight to realise that when
the animals are all killed there will be none left for
another day. His whole object is to “ shoot for the pot.”
He does not respect the gravid female or the mother running

 




AFRICA’S VANISHING F AUN A I 9

with young or the young animals themselves. To—day, in
British African territory alone, there are tens of thousands
of natives armed with licensed riﬂes at liberty to hunt, subject
to certain minor restrictions, the wild life of the continent.
Native methods of killing wild animals are many and
various, and most of them are cruel and attended by long-
drawn-out suffering. Firearms of every imaginable variety
are used, mostly muzzle-loading. They are in the possession
of thousands of natives on the West Coast, in north-west
and north-east Rhodesia, in parts of the Congo, in French
Equatorial Africa and also under stricter surveillance in
parts of Kenya, Tanganyika and Uganda. Night shooting
with acetylene lamps attached to the head is general in
many parts. This method is nominally illegal, but is very
prevalent along the whole of the West Coast, where these
lamps can be obtained for a few shillings. It is a deadly
method and gives the animal no chance. Isolated pitfalls,
set in the animal’s tracks, are dug generally on the path to
water. Often a pointed stake at the bottom of the pit
penetrates the animal as it falls. Sometimes this method is
elaborated on a large scale and driving by an organised
crowd of natives towards a series of pitfalls takes place;
circling by ﬁres is often associated with these drives.
Driving with or without circling by ﬁres is possibly one of
the most serious methods of wholesale game destruction.
Snares attached to logs are also set, which, after hours—
or even days—of torture, wear out the strongest animal,
which is ﬁnally killed with the assegai. Steel traps, after
the nature of the gin trap used in this country for catching
rabbits, only larger, some strong enough to hold a lion, are
manufactured in Ashanti, and are used along the Gold Coast
and in the northern territories, and by special concession
in other British colonies and protectorates. A deadly and
cruel trap is sometimes constructed of blocks of wood
studded with poisoned darts. These traps are buried in
the tracks of elephant and rhinoceros, animals with large
soft feet, and treading on one dooms the animal to a wretched

death.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

20 THE ANIMAL YEAR BOOK

(3) EPIDEMIC DISEASES

Of these, the rinderpest has been the most serious. The
great epidemic of 1896 was responsible for enormous
mortality among certain animals. Buffalo were the most
important feral victims, and over a large part of the con-
tinent 95 per cent. of the stock died. Unfortunately, the
disease was not limited to the ox family, but attacked and
killed great numbers of antelope, pig, etc. Selous (28)
tells us that the rinderpest between the Zambesi and the
Limpopo killed off nearly all the buffalo and many other
animals, and that on one of his expeditions he saw acres of
carcasses rotting in the sun. The devastation of this and
later epidemics has not been made good by natural recupera—
tion of thestock, even after the passage of years, because of
the great and growing menace of white settlement. Rinder—
pest is still of Sporadic occurrence in parts of East and
Central Africa (30» 35) and accounts for great mortality
among wild and domestic cattle and certain kinds of antelope,
among which are the lesser koodoo and the eland.

(4) TSETSE-FLY CONTROL

Experiments have been conducted on varying scales
with the object of destroying the hosts of tsetse-ﬂy, the
carrier of Sleeping sickness. In these experiments enormous
numbers of animals have been sacriﬁced with, as far as we
can learn, a lack of success which has not justiﬁed the
experiments. In many cases there can be no doubt that the
killing has been conducted in a barbarous manner, and that
humane methods have not been considered. An example
of the appalling slaughter of animals for scientiﬁc reasons
is contained in a passage from the Annual Report of the
Southern Rhodesian Government Entomologist for the
year 1931 : “ The native hunters employed by the Entomo-
logical Branch destroyed 6, 502 head of game during the year,
while the native hunters under the control of the Native
Department destroyed 8,565 head, making a total of 15,067
head.” This is an instance of only one period in one

 




AFRICA’S VANISHING FAUNA 2 I

district in which this type of experiment has been carried
out, and the aggregate of game destroyed throughout
tsetse-infected Africa mustbe colossal.

(5) SETTLERS ’ AND NATIVE RIGHTS AND
G A M E C 0 N T R 0 L
Since the earlydays of land cultivation, it has been
necessary in the interests of the agriculturalist and the
stock-breeder to kill marauding animals, but only recently,
since intense cultivation has been encouraged by our
Administrators, has “ Game Control ” become specially
organised in the East African dependencies, and has thus
7 afforded an ofﬁcial reason for extensive slaughter of the
l pachyderms. The problem is a diﬂicult one, for there is
no doubt that elephant everywhere, and hippopotamus in
the neighbourhood of rivers and lakes, are a menace to
agriculture. At the same time the Game Reports give
startling ﬁgures for the annual number of pachyderms
killed. In Uganda (35) 2,100 elephant were taken in
1934 and again in 1935, and the report admits the largeness
of these numbers, but goes on to say that “ when one
realises that, despite a wastage during the last three years of
approximately 6,000, this small protectorate is still literally
over-run with elephants, big, dangerous, destructive beasts,
, the necessity for this appalling slaughter must be acknow-
ledged.” Records of hippopotamus are very incomplete,
but we read that in the Entebbe district, “ 87 raiders have
been destroyed by the locally employed temporary hunters,
and 8 by the Game Guards ” ; 200 were killed in Victoria
Nyanza, 100 in the inland waters, and 200 in the waters of
the Albert Nile.
It is stated that Kenya does not possess adequate means of
‘ dealing with the elephant menace and that agriculture suffers
l accordingly. No actual numbers of those killed annually
l are given, but a generally accepted estimate of 1,000 per
i annum is not exaggerated. (34) No returns are made for
the black rhinoceros, but the Game Warden would appear
to be worried by the prevalence of illicit dealing in rhino

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

22 THE ANIMAL YEAR BOOK

horn. Kenya is the last stronghold of these great beasts
and unless they can be saved here the whole race is doomed
to destruction in the near future.

In Tanganyika (33) during the “ thinning-out campaign ”
of 1934, 2,716 elephant were killed, and in the two years
1933 and 1934, 2,600 hippopotamus. The numbers of
rhinoceros are not given. Under “ vermin,” one notes
that 679 bush-pigs and wart-hogs, 132 monkeys and 97
baboons were killed with poisoned baits.

In these dependencies, the Game Departments’ income
over expenditure is in each case satisfactory. From the
sale of ivory, rhinoceros horn and hippopotamus teeth
alone, in Uganda the annual income derived was £13,549,
in Kenya £9,709, and in Tanganyika £20,653. After
reading these reports it seems possible that the trade value
of tusk, tooth and horn may have inﬂuenced the game
ranger to some extent in his denunciation of these animals as
“ big, dangerous, destructive beasts.” Even if all the facts
were available, space does not permit a discussion of the
ethics of “ Game Control,” but the necessity of slaughter-
ing 2,600 hippopotamus in two years in a comparatively
small area of Tanganyika is doubtful, nor is the wisdom
apparent of allowing natives to hunt that animal unchecked
in Uganda. The elephant in both Tanganyika and Uganda
would appear to be unfairly exploited.

m)SP0RTSMEN

In the past there can be no question but that so—called
sportsmen were responsible for killing unnecessarily large
numbers of game animals, and thirty years ago it was not
uncommon for these people to write to the papers pro-
claiming their prowess in this direction. Even to—day it
would not be right to exempt some sportsmen from the charge
of killing an unfair number of animals. There is a certain
type of person who suffers from “ trigger itch ” and who
never seems quite satisﬁed with the numbers killed ; and
there are others who persistently take the long, unsporting
shots which nine times out of ten only wound, if they hit

 

 

 




 

 

AFRICA’S VANISHING FAUNA 23

at all. But taking all in all, the true sportsman does more
good than harm to the game animals. His love of nature
and the wild makes him as anxious to preserve as to collect
trophies, and, gainsay it who will, it is the sportsman who
has done much to agitate for legislation for the protection
of wild life. There is no doubt that if the game animals of
Africa were left in the hands of the true sportsman and
the naturalist, with power to act, there would be no danger
either of unnecessary cruelty or of further extermination of
species. This also applies to the white settler, except that
here concessions should be, and are in fairness, allowed by
the authorities. The average white man shoots for sport,
and incidentally for food, but does not inﬂict unnecessary
suffering on his quarry, and spares, where possible, pregnant
females and young animals. The white settlers are not

from the sporting aspect a danger to the perpetuation
of species.

PROTECTIVE MEASURES

Africa possesses two of the ﬁnest wild—life sanctuaries
(37’ 38) in the world, the Kruger National Park in the
Transvaal, and the Parc National Albert in the Belgian
Congo, which are inviolable and in which absolute pro-
tection is extended to the animals. Apart from these,
none of the other game reserves, of which there are one
hundred and thirty—nine, can be regarded as free from
extensive poaching, although in the Northern and Southern
Reserves in Kenya, in the Serengeti Reserve and a few
others, the animals are fairly well protected, owing to the
organised Game Departments. In West Africa, where
there are no Game Departments, the reserves are largely
ineffective ; many of them are unknown even to the White
people and natives of the district, while some are already
depleted of big animals. Where poaching occurs in the
nominal reserves, little, if any, endeavour is made to bring
the offenders to justice, and penalties are insigniﬁcant.

On the other hand, the two National Parks may be looked
upon as ideal for the preservation of wild life. They answer,

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

24 THE ANIMAL YEAR BOOK

however, different purposes : the Kruger National Park is
the home of a great number of different species living
under natural conditions but open to inspection by the
general public. As a result of the constant inﬂux of
visitors, many of the animals have become almost tame and
are unusually easy of approach and inspection. The Parc
National Albert extends absolute protection to its inmates,
notably the mountain gorilla, and is of extreme value to
the scientist and the naturalist, but general public inspection
is not allowed. These two reserves are the only ones in
the great continent which can compare in efﬁciency with
the many in Canada and the United States. It is a matter
of urgency that other game reserves like them should be
established and maintained all over Africa to act as sanc-
tuaries and reservoirs for the wild life, which is in such
danger from the exploitation of man.

In 1900, a Conference was held in London for the dis-
cussion of fauna preservation in Africa (37: 38). Unfor-
tunately, the resulting Convention was never ratiﬁed and
became a dead letter. In Paris, in 1931, the International
Congress for the Protection of Nature proposed a resolution
calling for another Convention, and on November 8, 1933,
the London Conference, called by invitation of the British
Government, met, and under the Presidency of the Earl of
Onslow, drew up a convention relative to the preservation
of African fauna andﬂora in its natural state. Representa-
tives of the governments of. Great Britain, Belgium, South
Africa, Spain, Egypt, France, Italy, Portugal and the
Anglo-Egyptian Sudan attended. Without giving the
provisions of the nineteen articles, which deal with the
functions of national parks, natural reserves, the more
careful supervision of the export of trophies, the grading of
animals into classes calling for absolute or partial pro-
tection, etc., etc., Article 10 should be more fully quoted,
for it shows that the Conference recognised the unfairness
and. inhumanity of certain methods of capturing wild
animals.

Article IO states that the “use of motor vehicles or

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

AFRICA’S VANISHING FAUNA 25

aircraft shall be prohibited in the territories of the con-
tracting governments, both (1) for the purpose of hunting,
killing or capturing animals, and (2) for use in such a
manner as to drive, stampede or disturb them for any
purpose whatever, including that of ﬁlming or photo—
graphing. . . . The contracting governments shall prohibit
in their territories the surrounding of animals by ﬁres for
hunting purposes. Wherever possible the undermentioned
methods of capturing or destroying animals shall also be
generally prohibited: (a) the use of poison or explosives
for killing ﬁsh ; (b) the use of dazzling lights, ﬂares, poisons,
or poisoned weapons for hunting animals ; (c) the use of
nets, pits or enclosures, gins, traps, or snares, or of set gins
or missiles containing explosives for hunting animals.”

Article 18 of the Convention states that “ after the
deposit or notiﬁcation of not less than four ratiﬁcations or
accessions on the part of the contracting governments . . .
the present convention shall come into force after the
deposit of the last of such notiﬁcations,” etc., etc. The
International Convention was signed by ﬁve of the countries
attending the Conference, viz. Great Britain, South Africa,
Belgium, Egypt and the Anglo-Egyptian Sudan, and
came into operation on January 4, 1936. Italy has signed
recently, although Spain, France and Portugal remain at
present outside the Convention. The next meeting of the
powers is to take place within four years of November 8,
1933, and it is to be hoped that then all the nations con-
cerned will associate themselves with the conservation of
the African fauna. In the meantime, it cannot be irrelevant
to inquire why Britain, in association with her Colonies,
Protectorates and Mandated Territories, has not taken
advanced action on the lines laid down by the Conference
to arrest the present abuses, and in this 'way to show the
world by example that the British at any rate were sincere
when they signed the International Convention.

In conclusion, the following two quotations seem par-
ticularly appropriate. The ﬁrst was written to me in
February, 1933, by one of the greatest authorities on

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

26 THE ANIMAL YEAR BOOK

African fauna, who has for many years held a high ofﬁcial
position in connection with wild life. He says : “ Unless
there comes a change of spirit to British Administrators and
the British Government, I do not think that in twenty-ﬁve
years there will be any larger forms of wild life left in
British Africa. With the exception of parts of the Belgian
Congo, I believe the general position to be no better than in
British territory.” The second quotation is taken from
the Rhodes Memorial Lecture delivered in 1929 by General
Smuts: “I look forward to the time when the rage for
destruction will have disappeared, when the senseless
slaughter of the wild fauna will be as criminal and contrary
to public opinion as cruelty to humans, and when those
who love the wilds and their shy denizens and their intimate
ways, will come from all parts of the earth to ﬁnd peace and

refreshment in Africa.”

APPENDIX

[Numbers in heavy type refer to the Bibliography.]
QUAGGA (Eguus quagga) (15—21)

The Quagga was very plentiful in the days of Cornwallis
Harris in 1836 in Cape Colony on the Karoo, in the Orange
River Colony and in Griqualand West. The herds were often
accompanied by Black Wildebeest, Ostrich and Springbok,
and vast gatherings of many hundreds of these animals have
been recorded. '

The body was rufous brown, changing to fulvous posteriorly ;
head bay, striped with brown in zebra fashion; neck banded
with broad stripes which continued along the body to the
haunches, where they broke up into vague lines and spots.
Sixteen specimens in all were brought alive to Europe, three of
which came to the Gardens of the Zoological Society in London.
The last of these died in 1864, but the last Quagga of all survived
in the Amsterdam Zoological Gardens until August 12, 1882..
The specimen is now excellently mounted in the Museum of
the Society Natura Artis Magistra, Amsterdam.

BLAAUWBOK (H z'ppotmgus leucophceus) (1 2—1 4)

This animal was only seen in the ﬂesh by two of the early
explorers, Dr. Anders Sparrman, a Swede, and M. F. Vaillant,

 

 




 

 

 

 

BAR BARY STAG I

    
  
 
 
 
 
   
 
   
 

BUBAL HARTEBEEST

NUBIAN IBEX

WILD A55

ABYSSINIAN f

PIGMY HIPPO

 

Equator

BLACK RHINO 75}
WHITE RHINO ISO
BLACK RHINO 2“IO
WHITE TAILED GNU

MOUNTAIN ZEBRA

BONTEBOK

  
    
  

CEMSBOK

BL‘ESBOK

 

 

 

DISTRIBUTION OF SOME OF THE ANIMALS
MENTIONED IN THE APPENDIX.

[Toface page 26.

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

DISTRIBUTION OF THE CHIMPANZEE IN AFRICA.

(The shaded areas indicate the areas in which these apes
are to be found.)

To faée page 27.]

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

AFRICA’S VANISHING FAUNA 27

a. Frenchman, who arrived at the Cape in 1772 and 1781 respec-
t1vely. It was indigenous to the southern districts of Cape
Colony, one of its ﬁnal refuges being the mountains between
Swellendam and Algoa Bay, where the last specimens were shot
in 1800. It stood 45 inches at the shoulder and was bluish—grey
1n colour, with white underparts and a white face.

*1. BUBAL HARTEBEEST (Bubalz's buselaphus) (32, 37)

This is the smallest of the Hartebeests and stands only 43
inches at the shoulder, and is a native of North Africa.

2. MOUNTAIN ZEBRA or TRUE ZEBRA (Equus zebra) (24, 32, 39)

As its name infers, it is a dweller in the hills. It is a very
different animal from the Bontequagga or Burchell’s Zebra of
the plains. Its ears are longer, its hoofs are narrower, the tail
tuft more scanty and the body stripes stop short on the sides,
but the most obvious characteristic is the “ grid-iron ” pattern
of transverse bars passing from the root of the tail up over the
haunches. To-day, only 45 or so exist, about one—half of them
near Craddock and the other half near Oudtshoorn, both in.
Cape Colony. In January of this year a pleasing telegram was
received by ULAWS saying that the South African Govern—
ment had decided to provide funds (£7,600) to preserve the
Craddock troup. The Animal Welfare Society of South
Africa is to be congratulated on the success of its efforts on
behalf of this animal.

3. BONTEBOK (Damalz'scus pygargus) (15, I7, 28)

This is a beautiful type of smaller antelope, conspicuous by
the white blaze down the whole length of the face, whereas its
near relative, the Blesbok, has a brown line between the eyes
dividing the frontal blaze. The Bontebok has also a con-
spicuous white rump patch, which the Blesbok has not.

4. BLACK WILDEBEEST or WHITE—TAILED GNU (Connochcetes gnu)
(15—18)

The anterior position of the horns, which cover the upper
part of the face with their expanded bases, and the white tail
distinguish this animal from its near relative, the Blue Wilde-
beest. It stands 46 inches at the shoulder, and has a grotesque

 

9“ The animals which follow are numbered in the order in which they"
appear in the table.

3

 

 

 




 

 

 

28 THE ANIMAL YEAR BOOK

and ferocious appearance and an exceptionally big head. The
gnu originally swarmed in the ﬂat country south of the Vaal
River, where its strange antics were a noticeable feature of

the veld.

5. ABYSSINIAN IBEX (Capra walz'e) (32, 37)

This has never been known to white men as anything but a
very rare animal. It differs from the more common Nubian
species by its stouter build, shorter beard and larger and more
massive horns, on which the knots are but slightly prominent.

The N UBIAN IBEX (Capra nubiana) is not in the same danger as
its Abyssinian relative. It is to be found in the Red Sea
provinces of the Sudan and is still allowed to be shot by the
holders of an “ A ” licence.

6. MOUNTAIN N YALA (Tragelap/zus buxtom') (37)

Both the Mountain and the Common Nyala are rare animals ;
the former is the larger and has more massive horns. It inhabits
thick woody country at high altitudes, in an area of some hundred
square miles in Southern Abyssinia, and was unknown to
Europeans until 1910. Although it is difﬁcult to give even its

approximate numbers, it is doubtful whether more than a few‘

hundred are alive to—day. A splendid male is mounted in the
same case as the Koodoo in the Natural History Museum.

7. WILD Ass (Equus minus) (32, 37)

There are two local races, at one time plentiful in the Anglo-
Egyptian Sudan, Eritrea and Somaliland. To-day, the Nubian
race is still to be found in the deserts of the north-eastern part
of the Anglo-Egyptian Sudan close to the Red Sea, where it is
closely protected. It was also reported in 1933 by the Govern-
ment of Eritrea as still existing in the region of Arafali. There is
no reliable information about its range in British and French
Somaliland. It is, in any case, a very rare animal, and year by
year its range is becoming more restricted.

8. CAPE I IARTEBEEsT (Bubalz's cama) (15, 18, 20, 21, 27)

In former days it was abundant in Cape Colony, extending
from the Mababi River and Lake Ngami in the north to the
extreme south of the peninsula. To—day, the range is greatly
restricted and, except in the Kalahari National Park they
cannot be considered as really Wild animals. Elsewhere they
are spec1ally protected by individual landowners.




AFRICA’S VANISHING FAUNA 29

9. GIANT SABLE ANTELOPE (Hippotragus niger varz'ani) (37)

This is possibly the ﬁnest example of the antelope family in
Africa and is distinguished from the Common Sable Antelope
by its immense horns, the record length of which is 64 inches.
It is only found in what is known as the Luando-Quanza Reserve,
a. strip of country 30 by 100 miles in Angola. It has been
scheduled by the Government as protected within this area, but
no organisation has been set up to- make this effective. It is
by no means plentiful and authorities are of the opinion that
unless it is actively protected without. delay, in a few years it
will become extinct.

IO. PIGMY HIPPOPOTAMUS (Hippopotamus liberz'ensz's)

It is obviously distinguished from the Common Hippopotamus
by its small size, being only about 6 feet in length and weighing
some 6 cwts. Col. A. H. W. Haywood wrote to me as follows
about the Pigmy Hippo: “ These animals are found in rather
thick bush country in the north—east of Sierra Leone, and along
the eastern border close to Liberia. They have also been
deﬁnitely located in Nigeria on the eastern mouths of the Niger
in similar country. It seems quite probable that they are more
widely distributed than was thought a few years ago, but the
swampy and dense nature of the bush they inhabit may account
for the fact that they have not been much seen by Europeans.”
The Pigmy Hippo is a docile, inoffensive animal and breeds
readily in captivity.

II. WHITE or SQUARE-LIPPED RHINOCERos (Rhinoceros sz'mus)
(15, 16, 18—20, 28)

Next to the Elephant, this is the largest terrestrial animal,
standing 6 feet 6 inches at the shoulder, and weighing nearly
4 tons. It is not white but rather neutral grey, lighter in colour
than the Black Rhinoceros. In character it differs markedly
from its pugnacious relative, being quite inoffensive. It also
differs from the Black Rhino in being a grazer, not a browser.

The status of this magniﬁcent and docile pachyderm is
pathetic to a degree. Its southern habitat is most uncertain,
and although the Natal Government has stated that it should
not be exterminated, forces are at Work which may render this
statement empty, if the tsetse-ﬂy campaign brings about the
abolition of the Umfulosi Reserve. In the north it is strictly
preserved by the" three Governments concerned, but one cannot
overlook the fact that in equatorial Africa its horn is valuable
and it is still poached.

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

30 THE ANIMAL YEAR BOOK

12. GIRAFFE (Giraﬁa) (15, 18, 21)

At least three sub-species are represented and were to be
found until comparatively recently over the greater part of
Africa, i.e. from Nubia and Nigeria to the Cape, with the excep—
tion of the Congo forest zone. To—day their distribution is
distinctly circumscribed. This, the world’s tallest mammal,
is a sweet, inoffensive, voiceless creature which cannot be fairly
termed a game animal, and its very innocence demands its
absolute protection at the hands of civilisation.

I3. OKAPI (Okapz'a johnstom’) (9)

This gentle, inoffensive animal is at present in no danger of
extermination, but its frequency of occurrence is unknown and
therefore it should be carefully watched so that its numbers are
not unduly diminished.

I4. GORILLA (Gorilla gorilla) (1—11)

The largest of the anthropoid apes-is only to be found in two
localised areas of the great equatorial forest—belt. It belongs to
a dying race and is an inoffensive, docile, retiring creature. Its
western distribution is in the Cameroons and Gabon, and its
numbers in this district are approximately estimated at 2,000.
Lesser numbers are found to the east in the Belgian Congo,
north of Lake Kivu, where the Pare National Albert affords
them protection, and in the immediate neighbourhood of the
Parc in Uganda, west of Lake Edward. This eastern race
is estimated at about 600. Isolated regions of the Congo
probably shelter other scattered animals and it appears to be
authentic that a sub-species inhabits the forest country north-
west of Lake Tanganyika. In its eastern sanctuary the Gorilla
should remain Safe, being seriously protected by both the British
and the Belgian Governments, but in the Cameroons it is still
being killed and captured and its foothold is by no means secure.

15. CHIMPANZEE (Anthropopithecus) (1—4, 9, 11)

It is to be found scattered over a big area of the equatorial
forest-belt from Gambia to Tanganyika. In contrast to the
Gorilla, the Chimpanzee is to be found south of the Congo
River and also over a large part of the eastern Congo as low as
latitude 10° S. It is nowhere plentiful, but the opinion generally
held is that possibly 20,000 or 30,000 still exist in their forest
habitat. This gentle anthropoid should be absolutely protected
in its natural haunts.




AFRICA’S VANISHING FAUNA 31

16. COMMON HIPPOPOTAMUS (Hippopotamus amphz'bz'us) (12—22,

33, 35)

Two hundred years ago the Hippopotamus was to be found
in all the important rivers of Africa, with the possible exception
of the extreme north—west and the drier country of the south-
west. During the past ﬁfty years its slaughter has been appalling,
not on account of its danger to man but due to the sheer lust of
killing which accompanied the introduction of ﬁrearms into the
country. With the more intensive encouragement of agriculture
in Tanganyika, Kenya and Uganda, this animal is now voted
“ formidable ” and a nuisance which must be removed. It has
practically disappeared south of the Zambesi, from the lower
waters of the Nile, and from the West Coast from Gambia to the
Cameroons. Its last great haunts are certain big rivers in
Tanganyika and the swamps and papyrus beds of the Central
African Lakes. The crime of possible extermination of this
ancient animal is disturbing the minds of naturalists to-day.

17. ELEPHANT (Elephas africanus) (12—29, 33—3 5)

Tens of thousands are alive to-day, living under natural
conditions, and it is only by considering the recent history of
these beasts that the necessity of early and drastic protection to
save the species can be realised. Two hundred years ago the
Elephant extended practically throughout the whole continent
and was the most generally distributed of all Africa’s big animals,
with the possible exception of the Lion. To—day, with the
exception of a few small troups, it has been annihilated south of
the Zambesi; in Nyasaland and Northern Rhodesia a few
hundreds only remain, and this applies also to Portuguese East
Africa. Throughout the whole of West Africa, in country
admirably suited to its needs, it is a rare animal, and in the
Sudan the great herds no longer exist. The Elephant has
“ retired ” to the heart of Africa, i.e. the Congo, French
Equatorial Africa, Uganda, Tanganyika and Kenya. It would
be more accurate to say that its home is in this comparatively
circumscribed area because it has been largely exterminated
elsewhere.

Apart from the above-mentioned animals, which deserve to
be specially noted on account of their rareness and the danger in
which they stand of annihilation, the following should be carefully
watched with a View to procuring active and immediate protection
should it become necessary :—

SPRINGBOK (Antz'dorcas euchore) ( I 5, 18, 21). A plain dweller
of Cape Colony, Orange'Free State and the Transvaal.

 




32 THE ANIMAL YEAR BOOK

BONGO (Boocercus eurycerus) (I, 32). A forest dweller, widely
distributed, but everywhere rare, from Senegambia to Kenya
Colony.

ADDAX (Addax nasomaculatus) (32). Of North African desert
country as far south as latitude 70 I 5’ N.

COMMON NYALA ( T ragelaphus angasi). South—East Africa,
from Nyasaland to Zululand.

HUNTER’S HARTEBEEST (Damalz'scus hunteri). N orth-eastern
Kenya, bordering on Italian Somaliland.

VAAL RHEBOK (Pelea capreolus). Hilly country of South-East
Africa, from Matabeleland to the Cape.

MOUNTAIN REEDBUCK or ROOI RHEBOK (Cervicapm fulvorufula).
South-East Africa, from the Zambesi to the Cape, including
Bechuanaland.

GEMSBOK or SOUTH AFRICAN ORYX (Oryx gazella) (18, 20, 21).
Kalahari Desert to the extreme north of British Bechuanaland
and South West Bechuanaland Protectorate, and the Wankie
Game Reserve in Southern Rhodesia and Southern Tan-
ganyika. A local race is rare on the dry coastal belt of Portu-
guese Angola.

GIANT ELAND (T anrotmgus derbiamts). Has a narrow, restricted
range in Central Africa, from Senegambia to the Nile. Local
races are recognised in Senegambia, Portuguese Guinea,
Cameroons, Congo and the Sudan. It is also found south of
Lake Chad, but is nowhere plentiful.

BARBARY STAG (Cervuselaphus). A local race of the European
Deer. Eastern Algeria and Western Tunisia.

KLIPSPRINGER or KLIPBOK (Oreotmgus saltator). A small
mountain antelope originally found in many rocky and
mountainous districts in South and East Africa from the
Cape to Abyssinia. N ow sadly reduced in numbers practically
everywhere. This animal certainly calls for protection in
many localities.

GUEREZAS or COLOBUS MONKEYS (Colbus satanus, Colbus candatus,
Colbus ellz'oti, Colbus ferrugz'ncus). Species of very beautiful
monkeys extending across equatorial Africa, from Senegambia
to the Islands of Fernando Po and Zanzibar. They are
greatly persecuted for their skins.

DUIKERS or DUIKERBOKS (Cephalophinw). Small antelopes of
many species, notably the Yellow—backed Duiker (Cephalophus
sylvz'cultrz'x) of West and Central Africa, and Jentink’s Duiker
(Cephalophus jentz'nki) of Liberia.

TSESSEBE or SASSABY (Damalz'scus limatus). Possibly the swiftest
of African antelopes and formerly widely distributed through-
out South Central Africa, now becoming rare everywhere.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




AFRICA’S VANISHING FAUNA 3 3

The writer saw a troup of 200 of these antelope near Lake
Bangweolo in 1913.

BLESBOK (Damaliscus albifrons) (15, 18, etc.). A very near
relation of the Bontebok. Seventy years ago there were tens
of thousands of these animals on the plains of the Orange
Free State and the Transvaal. To—day, certainly some
thousands exist in protected areas in both these states, but
none can be looked upon as truly wild animals. There is,
however, no fear of their early extinction.

LEMURS (Lemurida). Many species to be found in Madagascar.

H

4sz

II.

12.
13.

14.
15.
16.

17.
18.

I9.

00 my oxm

BIBLIOGRAPHY

THE GREAT APES

. DU CHAILLU, P. B. Explorations and Adventures in Equa-

torial Africa. 1861.

. WINWOOD READE, W. Savage Africa. 1864.

An African Sketch Book. 1873.

 

. BARNES, T. ALEXANDER. Wonderland of the Eastern Congo.

1922.
Across the Great Craterland to the Congo. 1923.

 

. AKELEY, CARL E. Hunting Gorillas in Central Africa. 1922.

In Brightest Africa. 1923. .
—— Gorillas Real and ll/Iythical. 1923.

 

. JOHNSTON, HARRY. The Uganda Protectorate. 1902.
. DERSCHEID, J. M. Notes sur les Gorilles des Volcans du Kivu.

1927.
YERKES, R. l‘vl. 8: A. W. The Great Apes. 1929.

MISCELLANEOUS

PENNANT, T. Synopsis of Quadrupeds. 1771.

SPARRMAN, A. A Voyage to the Cape of Good Hope from the
Years 1772 to 1776.

VAILLANT, F. Travels from the Cape of Good Hope to the
Interior Parts of Africa. 1790.

CORNWALLIS HARRIS, W. Narrative of an Expedition into
Southern Africa during the Years 1836~37. 1838.

———-— The Wild Sports of Southern Africa. 1839.

—— The Wild Sports of Southern Africa (later edition).
18 2.

CUMIleNG, GORDON R. A Hunter’s Life in South Africa.
18 O.

———— 5The Lion Hunter in South Africa. 185 5.

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

34

20.
21.

22.

23.
24.
25.
26.

27.
28.
29.
3o.
31.
32.
33-

34.

35-
36.

37-

38.

39..

THE ANIMAL YEAR BOOK

ANDERSSON, C. J. Lake Ngami. 1856.

BALDWIN, W. C. African Hunting and Adventure from 1852
to 1860. 1894.

SPEKE, J. HEMMING. The Discovery of the Source of the Nile.
1864. '

WILLOUGHBY, J. G. East Africa and its Big Game. 1889.

BRYDEN, H. A. Gun and Camera in Southern Africa. 1893.

KIRBY, F. VAUGHAN. In Haunts of Wild Game. 1896.

SELOUS, F. C. Travel and Adventure in South-East Africa.
18 3.

—— 34 Hunter’s Wanderings in Africa. 1895.

—— African Nature Notes and Reminiscences. 1908.

SUTHERLAND, J. The Adventures of an Elephant Hunter.
1912.

WARD, ROWLAND. Great and Small Game of Africa.
1899.

Records of Big Game. 193 5.

LYDEKKER, R. The Game Animals of Africa. 1908.

Tanganyika Territory Game Preservation Department Annual
Report. 1934.

Colony and Protectorate of Kenya Game Department Annual
Report. 1932.

Colony and Protectorate of Kenya Game Department Annual
Report. 1933.

Colony and Protectorate of Kenya Game Department Annual
Report. 1934. -

Uganda Protectorate. Annual Report of the Game Depart-
ment for the year ended December 31, 193 5. 1936.

African Game Protection. Special publication of the
American Committee for International Wild Life Pro-
tection. 1933. '

The London Convention. Special publication of the
American Committee for International Wild Life Pro-
tection. 1935.

London Convention for the Protection of the Fauna and Flora
of Africa. 1933.

The Animal Welfare Society of South Africa. Annual
Report. 193 5.

 




THE INFLUENCE OF RELIGIONS
ON MAN’S ATTITUDE TOWARDS
ANIMALS

by F. HAROLD SMITH, D.D.

ELIGION postulates belief in a Supreme Being
R upon whom man and the whole of creation depends.
Man’s relation to the Supreme Being ﬁnds expression in his
attitude towards the universe in which he lives. Even
inanimate products of the Supreme Being’s creative activity
are instruments to the spiritual end of man, and wanton
destruction of them is rightly regarded as sin ; how much
more carefully, therefore, must animate nature be con-
served by man, possessing as it does a life of its own?
Animals have been endowed with the divine gift of “ sensible
being,” and regard for their welfare is a religious duty,
within the limits of a usufruct, which allows the animal the
fullest opportunity of enjoying the life within it.

The term “ animal ” as a designation of all life, whether
vegetable, sensible or rational, ultimately derives in a
technical sense from the philosophy of Aristotle, through the
Latin equivalent of the Greek z/vaﬁ. In his treatise wepi
gbvxﬁg (de Am'ma), Aristotle regards all organisms as
expressions of am'ma, the “ soul” or “life” common to
them all. The whole of the organic existence, from the lowest
unicellular being to the greatest human genius, is one vast
unity by virtue of the gift of “ life.” Plant, beast and man
embody in an ascending order, as their form or end, three
grades of soul—life: (I) the nutritive and reproductive;
(2) the sentient; and (3) the rational. A higher stage in
this ascending scale of being always includes the lower, so
that man, the “ rational animal,” is in possession of all three
grades. There is, by virtue of this fact, a kinship between

35

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

36 THE ANIMAL YEAR BOOK

man and the lower animals of a very intimate kind, and we
can feel with Ruskin that there is “in every animal’s eye
a dim image and gleam of humanity, a ﬂash of strange light,
through which their life looks out and up to our great
mystery of command over them, and claims the kinship
of the creature, if not of the soul.” Hence the mediaeval
theology of Thomas Aquinas, under the inﬂuence of
Aristotle, allows room for the existence of a natural right
shared by man with the animals, within the range of the
sensible, nutritive and reproductive life.

The chief characteristic of life is organisation, hence the
term “ organic ” ; and the supreme gift of “rational
organisation,” enjoyed by man, is the crown of all life.
In its ultimate form, as “ active intellect,” “ unmixed with
baser matter,” reason “ alone is immortal and eternal.” (1)
Thus, in spite of the unity of all life, there is a great gulf
ﬁxed between man and the lower animals by virtue of the
eternal character of mind. The lower animals only reﬂect
eternity by eternally reproducing themselves in the type,
but man possesses a gift inherently eternal. The mediaeval
theologians of Islam and Christendom emphasised the
distinction of man from the animals, rather than the com-
munity of nature between them. The lower animals,
indeed, through the sense-life “ partake in their own way of
the Eternal Reason,” but not in a “rational manner,” the
divine law being limited to rational creatures only. (3)
Little room was therefore left for a theodicy of the animal
kingdom. “ Such doctrine,” writes O’Leary, “ sets an
impassable gulf between man and the rest of creation, and
explains why it is impossible for those whose thought is
formed on Aristotelian lines, whether in orthodox Islam
or in the Catholic Church, to admit the ‘ rights ’ of animals,
although ready to regard benevolent action towards them as
a duty.” (3)

Animal psychology, however, indicates the kinship of
human and animal behaviour, and this fact, together with
the theory of the evolution of all life from lower forms, has
raised more acutely for the theologian the problem of man’s

 

 




 

RELIGIONS AND ANIMALS 37

relationship to lower life. 'Dr. de Haan (4) recognises even
in the unicellular organisms a mental life akin to that of the
human, and in the secondary behaviour of the higher
organisms he ﬁnds the ultimate modes of Cognition, feeling
and conation, such as characterise human conscious life.
Animal behaviour is more dependent, indeed, on sense—
stimuli, but even the peculiarly human capacity to form
abstract mental images seems already indicated by the
tendency of the. higher animals to place greater reliance
upon the sense of sight, producing stereoscopic vision and
initiating the development of the Visualising and imaginative
powers.‘(5)

With regard to the doctrine of biological evolution,
Christianity has to a large extent recognised that “ creative ”
or “ emergent ” development, involving the appearance of
new forms, is reconcilable with the belief in a transcendent
deity as the efﬁcient cause of the process at every stage of
its development. Such a view is consistent with the belief
that man is created in the “divine image” by a direct
divine operation, while it also recognises his continuity
with the humbler forms of life.

Primitive religion and the non—Christian religions of
Hinduism, Buddhism and Zoroastrianism have more clearly
expressed this belief in the continuity of all life.

Totemism is a striking example in primitive religion of
the belief in the kinship between the human and the sub—
human. The practical result is that the totem animal is not
only reverenced, but is loved as an elder brother, and to slay
it is in many cases equivalent to murder, though there are
many variations on the basic theme. One of the chief
causes of totemism might well be expressed in the words of
the American Indian, Washa-Quou—Asin, on the beavers
or “little people,” as they are. called: “they no longer
appealed to me as lawful prey, but as co—dwellers in this
Wilderness . . . they too fought against its hardships and
made their home in it ; we all, man and beast, were comrades
in arms.” Totemism normally allows the slaying of the
animal, with due ritual, for the use of man, whether as a

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

38 THE ANIMAL YEAR BOOK

sacrament or as food, but the reverence for the animal may
lead to an excessive respect for its life. The cat was an
object of extreme veneration in ancient Egypt, and a
Roman soldier who accidentally killed one was torn to
pieces by the mob before the eyes of Diodorus, the Greek
historian, although the Romans were at the time masters of
the country and the reigning Ptolemy did his utmost to save
the offender. Cats and. other animals were thought to
have Ka’s or spirits surviving death. Their mortal remains
were embalmed, as in the case of men, and vast cemeteries
were set apart for them. (6)

The attitude of the Egyptians towards the cat is analogous
to that of the Hindus in relation to ,_‘the cow. It is well
known that even to-day the Hindus are ﬁlled with horror
at the slaughter of a cow. This belief apparently goes back
to Iranian times before the Aryans entered India (c. 1500
B.C.), for in the Persian Avesta, cousin to the Indian Vedas,
geush mom or the “ soul of the cow” is regarded as the
personiﬁcation and guardian of animal life. The utility
of the cow in a primitive pastoral community and the
mystery of man’s dependence upon it for subsistence
probably account to a large extent for such reverence.
The two related religions of India and Persia, Hinduism
and Zoroastrianism, teach the unity of all life, and attempt
to bring the animal more clearly within the scope of religion.

According to the ruling theology'of India, the monism of
Sancara (c. 700 A.D.), all life is an “ emanation ” or
extension of deity, in contrast to the Christian View that
it is a “ creation ” of God. Consequently, all life is
fundamentally divine, whether that of man or animal. But
Brdhman, or the Eternal Self-existent Spirit is the only
Being which really exists. Therefore the world of objects
as we know them—whether lotus, crane or man—is due to
illusion, maya, the only real thing being the Soul or Eternal
Spirit, which expresses itself in the myriad forms of nature.
Hence our love should be directed not to transitory things,
but to the universal Soul, immanent in them. “ Lo

verily,” says Yajnavalkya, “not for the love of cattle are




RELIGIONS AND ANIMALS 39

cattle dear, but for the love of the Soul, cattle are dear.” (7)
The belief that all living creatures are an expression of the
divine has led in India to the regulation of conduct for

animal welfare as a religious duty. On the other hand, the

belief that phenomenal life is an illusion has led also to
an inconsistent deadening of sympathy in other respects,
for while it is incumbent on man to preserve animal life
(the life being divine), it is not so clearly a duty to prevent
suffering, for it is only a transitory phase of the life of
illusion. A similar ambivalent attitude appears in relation
to the doctrine of transmigration, integral to Hindu belief.
The conviction that an animal may possess the soul of a
departed relative fosters sympathy for animal life, but the
correlative afﬁrmation that an animal is suffering for the
sins of an earlier life tends to prevent a Hindu from inter-
fering with the course of karma, and so hinders the healing
of suffering.

The Hindu cardinal virtue of ahz’msa is, however, a very
lofty conception. Negatively, it means harmlessness to
all animal life; positively, it also inculcates gentleness and
sympathy towards all living creatures. The ancient
“ forest dwellers ” loved the animals like St. Francis, and
poets, such as Kalidasa or Valmiki, expressed affection and
care for the life of nature in glowing terms. The Bhagavad-
Gita, the New Testament of India, exhorts man again and
again to practise ahimsa, and the Laws of Manu (c. 300 B.C.),
the chief textbook of jurisprudence, contains numerous
exhortations to prevent the injury or suffering of animals.
Manu, nevertheless, supports animal sacriﬁce by the doctrine
of transmigration, for the animal is thought to be paying an
atoning penance for former sins by the sacriﬁce. “ Thou
dost not die, thou goest to the gods on easy paths ; where
virtuous men go.” (8) The sense of kinship with animal
life has, however, eventually led to the abolition of animal
sacriﬁces in the Vishnuite sects, the Sivaite sects largely
following suit.

The ambivalent attitude of sympathy and want of pity
is expressed in modern India by the assertion that it is an

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

40 THE ANIMAL YEAR BOOK

unpardonable sin to kill an animal, even though such an act
means putting it out of irremediable suffering. Jainism
has carried this belief to the extreme of establishing homes
of refuge, pinjra pols, for suffering and diseased animals,-
preserved in pain rather than mercifully slain. To kill an
animal is murder.

Buddhism, born in India, but ﬂourishing in Ceylon,
China and Japan, has maintained animal welfare for the
most part without such extreme views. The Dhammapada
bases nobility of conduct on compassion and care for animal
life. The famous rock inscriptions of the emperor Asoka
(C. 2703.0) reveal, not a religion of the monastery, but of
practical daily life. Animals must not be slaughtered for
sacriﬁce (Edict I). “ Healing herbs, medicinal for man and
medicinal for beast, wherever they were lacking, have been
imported and planted ” (Edict II). (This is thought to
indicate the ﬁrst example of hospitals.) The same edict
states that “ on the roads trees have been planted and wells
have been dug for the use of man and beast.” Forests
must not be burnt to drive out game ; branding of horses and
oxen is restricted ; the living must not be fed with the living ;
and rest-houses are built for the enjoyment of man and
beast (Seven Pillar Edicts). Eventually, no living creature
was compelled to surrender its life to gratify the royal
appetite. -

Mahayana Buddhism of China and Japan has developed
a theory of Absolute Idealism, which maintains that all
life is a manifestation of the one ultimate Buddha Absolute.
This belief upholds the unity of all life, so that man and
animal are co—substantial, and to ill-treat animals is to ill—
treat oneself. The ideal is the bodhz'sattva, who realises
his oneness with all life and suffers for all, in order that the
Buddha-nature in all may be awakened. Men and animals
alike belong to the world of “appearance,” but in the
supreme life of the Absolute, the purity and love awakened
in them ﬁnd their perfection.

Zoroastrianism as another off-shoot of the Indo-European
stock is cousin to Hinduism, Jainism and Buddhism- The

 

 




 

 

 

RELIGIONS AND ANIMALS 4.1

religion of Zarathushtra has, therefore, inherited the spirit
of humanity towards animal life. It developed, however, a
dualist belief, so that the welfare of animals meant in-
stinctively the welfare of useful animals, created by the good
deity, Ahura Mazdah, and the destruction of all noxious
animals created by Ahriman, the evil deity. So far, at
least, as the creatures of Ahura Mazdah are concerned, all
life is one, for all have souls, moan, and fracas/21's or guardian,
spirits, man being distinguished by the possession of daena,
religion or conscience, and baodha, reason.

According to Plutarch, Zarathushtra, as in the parallel
case of India, abolished animal sacriﬁce. A later age
reintroduced it, but modern Parseeism is apparently
without the practice. Zoroastrianism is not ascetic like
Hinduism and Buddhism; animal food is allowed, but
humane methods of killing are enjoined as a religious duty.
Geush moan, the guardian spirit of animal life, is represented
as raising a plaintive call of heart-rending pathos to God
to alleviate the sufferings inﬂicted by man on animals, and
God in reply afﬁrms that Zarathushtra will engender a
benevolent spirit in man and so assuage their pain. A
Parsee patet or confession to-day includes repentance for
any injury or wrong done to animal life. Parseeism regards
animal welfare as a normal religious duty.

The sacred literature of Confucianism shows a sympathy
for animal life, but the practical inculcation of animal
welfare receives its inspiration from Buddhism. The
teachings of Chu Hsi (A.D.. 1130—1200), the Confucian
scholastic, are largely the fruit of this inﬂuence. All life is
a unity, revealing 11', an ethical principle, in all its manifesta-
tions. Chuang-tze, the classic writer of Chinese Taoism,
bewailed the loss of a golden age when “ men lived in
common with birds and beasts and were on terms of equality
with all creatures as forming one family.” (10) The
Japanese, lovers of nature, imbibed the spirit of Buddhism
even more sympathetically than did the followers of Con-
fucius, and the delightful Shinto writer, Kaibara Ekken
(17th century), welcomes the belief in the unity of all life,

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

4.2 THE ANIMAL YEAR BOOK

while repudiating the monastic element in Buddhism.
“ As we are the children of Heaven and Earth, we should
love all creatures that Heaven has made . . . birds, animals,
ﬁsh and insects and then plants. Do not kill birds or
animals nor cut down trees purposelessly.” (11)

Mohammedanism, like Christianity, came under the sway
of Aristotelianism, which created a gulf between man and
the animals, in spite of their basic kinship in the world of
sense. There are, however, passages in the Qur’an and the
Sayings of the Prophet showing sympathy for animal life.
“ Every creature knoweth its prayer and its praise.” (12)
Animals as well as men are accountable to God, and will
stand before Allah on the Day of Judgment. (13) “ Verily,”
said the Prophet, “ there are rewards for our doing good
to dumb animals and giving them water to drink ” (H adith).
Muhasibi, the early mystic of Baghdad, depicts in a realistic
way the ﬁnal judgment of the animals at the end of the
world, when the violent will be punished and the gentle
rewarded! A fatalistic attitude has to a certain extent
hardened the Moslem towards suffering, in view of the
belief that God’s sovereign will has predestined everything,
so that if a creature suffers it is Allah’s decree. “ It would
be absurd to suppose that Allah should wrong anyone. He
is free to impose suffering on innocent children and animals,
without indemnifying them.” (14) The idea of divine
omnipotence overrules human sympathy.

Judaism and Christianity can be treated together so far
as the Old Testament is concerned. At the outset it is
afﬁrmed that all life is created by God and is “ good.” On
this basis rests the duty of man in relation to animals.
Man has “ dominion ” over them, so far as they subserve
his legitimate ends, but he should regard it as his duty to
help them to enjoy the life bestowed upon them by God.
The day of rest is for animals as well as for men, that they
may be refreshed, (15) and the Sabbatical Year is a rest
for animals as well as for the soil. (16) A man is bidden to
help a suffering animal even if its owner is an enemy. (17)
An ox is not to be muzzled when treading out the corn. (18)

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

RELIGIONS AND ANIMALS 43

The Mosaic Law is in advance of the parallel Code of
Hammurabi in this respect, and Alexander Weill has said
with reason that the Mosaic Law is the earliest to possess
the notion of the “solidarity of all beings,” prescribing to
man “ his duty to animal, plant and earth.”

Christianity inherited this view of animal welfare, so that
Jesus accepted it as axiomatic, reﬂecting it in his teaching
and enriching it by the belief in the divine Fatherhood.
“Behold the fowls of the air . . . your heavenly Father
feedeth them.” (19) There was no direct command to show
kindness to animals, but affection for them is reﬂected again
and again in the teaching, e.g. mercy to an animal is more
important than the Sabbath Law (20) or care for the lost
sheep. (21)

The Graeco-Roman world in the early days of Christianity
seems to have had little regard for animal welfare. The
term gbtAéZwog, “ fond of animals,” (22) is a rare word and
equivocal in meaning. Plutarch (c. 46—120 A.D.) was
probably the ﬁrst writer of that age to advocate explicitly
humanity to animals on the broad line of benevolence, as
distinguished from the Pythagorean basis of transmigration.
He condemns the cruel sports of the amphitheatre, dwelling
on the evil effect of such spectacles in hardening character,
and he indicates man’s duty to the animal world. Judaism
continued to teach, after biblical times, kindness to animals
in the spirit of the Mosaic Law. The Talmud contains
many exhortations on behalf of our dumb friends. It is
held, for example, that a man may not sit down to his own
meal before he has fed his animals. (23) Modern Jewish
text—books still devote a space to “ Kindness to Animals.” (24)
Of Christianity, it can be said that its saints received the
mantle of sympathy from Christ and were humanitarian to
animal life, but that its teachers were primarily absorbed in
the great message of human redemption. Lecky asserts
that “ many hundreds, I should perhaps hardly exaggerate
were I to say many thousands, of legends . . . exist in the
lives of the saints ” testifying to sympathy to animal life. (25)
Of these saints, St. Francis of Assisi stands in the ﬁrst rank.

4.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

.g’; DAT .# .
l

‘ 1‘
i

44 THE ANIMAL YEAR BOOK

But there is very little positive teaching on man’s duty to
animal life. The central fact of man’s redemption and its
theological interpretation practically ﬁlled the sphere iof
interest. The rights of animals were not entirely dis-
regarded, but, as we have seen, Aristotelianism tended in
the Middle Ages to stress the superiority of man to, rather
than his kinship with, the animals : a much needed lesson
when man so easily allied himself with the passions of the
beast. The effect, however, seems to have been that,
though the saints have exhibited individually the spirit of
animal welfare, Christianity has progressed somewhat slowly
in its positive teaching and in the abolition of cruelty.
Cock-throwing in England continued well into the 18th
century, and bull—baiting far into the 19th ; even as late as
1824 Sir Robert Peel argued strongly against its prohibition.
But at heart, Christianity expresses a belief in animal welfare :
all life is a gift of God’s being—the Holy Spirit is the “ Giver
of Life” (Cogowotov) in the widest sense, and all living
nature is the object of the heavenly Father’s care. The
Christian attitude towards animals is more than a mere
sentiment of pity: it recognises, subject to certain well-
guarded limitations, the right of the animals to enjoy as
much as lies in their power the life of sentience bestowed
upon them by the GOd who created all things good. Human
love should be a similitude of the divine love, which embraces
all creation.

 

“ He prayeth well, who loveth well
Both man and bird and beast.
He prayeth best, who loveth best
All things both great and small;
For the clear God who loveth us,
He made and loveth all.”

BIBLIOGRAPHY

I. ARISTOTLE. de Anima. ‘Translation, edited by W. D.
Ross, Vol. 3. 1931. p". 430a.”

2. AQUINAS. Summa Theologica. Translation by Dominican
Fathers. 1920. Pt. 2a, 91, 2.

3. O’LEARY, D. L. Arabic Thought. 1922. p. 150.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

- RELIGIONS AND ANIMALS 4.5

4. DE HAAN, J. A. B. Animal Psychology for Biologists. 1929.
University of London Press.
5. MURPHY, J. Primitive Man. 1927. p. 18.
6. SAYCE, A. H. The Religions of Ancient Egypt and Babylon.
1902. p. 112.
7. HUME, R. E. The Thirteen Principal Upanishads. 1931.
P‘ 145-
8. RAMANUJA. Commentary on Veda'nta Sutras. (Sacred
Books of the East, Vol. 48.) 1904. p. 599.
9. SMITH, V. A. Asoka. 1901. pp. 114, 116 and 151.
10. CHUANG—TZE. Writings. (Sacred Books of the East, V01.
39.) 1891. p. 278.
.11. KAIBARA EKKEN. The Way of Contentment. (Wisdom of
the East Series.) 1913. p. 87 . »
12. RODWELL, J. M. Koran. (Everyman’s Library.) 1921.
P- 44-7-
13. Ibid. p. 320.
14. WENSINCK, A. J. The Muslim Creed. 1932. p. 267.

15. —-——— Exodus. 20, x; 23, xii.

16. —— Leviticus. 25, Vii.

17. —— Exodus. 23, iv, V. Deuteronomy. 22, iv.
18. —— Deuteronomy. 25, iv.

19. —— Matthew. 6, xxvi.

20. —— Matthew. 12, Xi.

21. -—-— Luke. 15, iv.

22. XENOPHON. The Memorabilia of Socrates. I, 4, 7.
Talmud. Berachoth. 40a. and Gittin. 62a.

{ JOSEPH, M. j’udaism as Creed and Life. 1929. p. 471.

' F RIEDLANDER, M. The jewish Religion. 1900. p. 318.
25. LECKY, W. E. H. History of European Morals. II. 1899.

p. 171.

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

AN EXPERIMENT IN HUMANE
EDUCATION

by M. D. AUSTIN, F.R.E.S.

HE extension of humane education among school-

children is one of the main activities of many animal
protection societies, and with the co-operation of various
education authorities they are carrying out important work
in this connection. Dr. Hurren (1) has pointed out that, at
present, opportunities for humane education are less easily
found in secondary schools, where owing to the exigencies
of the examination system “ there is little time to spend on
work not directly connected with the syllabus,” whereas in
the modern private school or in the elementary school
time-tables are more elastic. Consequently, if the authorities
are enthusiastic, there can be a “general directing of all
studies towards this end,” and an Animal Week can be
organised under the auspices of the National Council of
Animal Welfare.

Valuable work on humane education is being carried on
by the Deeside Animal Welfare Society, with the co-opera-
tion of the Director of Education for Flintshire. The
Honorary Secretaries of the Society, Mr. and Mrs. Boyer,
began their activities in the industrial area of the Deeside,
in and around the towns of Holywell, Flint, Queensferry,
Shotton and Connahs Quay, some thirteen years ago.
The plan which they adopted is as follows : In each school
a preliminary talk on Animal Welfare is given and a branch
of the Society is founded. The schools are divided into
two classes, Urban and Rural, according to their distance
from the nearest cinema. The Urban schools have an
annual ﬁlm exhibition and, if it is desired, a talk on a
deﬁnite aspect of Animal Welfare as well. The Rural
schools have a talk illustrated by suitable pictures, photo—

46

 

 




 

 

 

AN EXPERIMENT IN HUMANE EDUCATION 4.7

graphs, etc., and essay competitions follow the talks and are
judged rather on accurate reproduction of the facts than on
literary ability. By means of these school visits, contact
is made with an ever-increasing number of children and a
proportionate number of teachers, and it can readily be
seen how far the success of such a scheme depends on the
enthusiasm of its initiators and the co-operation of the local
education authorities.

Early in 193 5, the Deeside Society arranged to extend
its work to include all the elementary schools in the county.
This meant a considerable expansion of the Society’s
educational programme, for it was intended to visit over
one hundred schools, and with the agreement of the County
Education Authority, it was suggested that the University
of London Animal Welfare Society should help by supplying
an additional lecturer. This excellent opportunity was
eagerly accepted, and at the beginning of September I
set out for Wales.

Forty—two schools, mostly in rural areas, were to be visited
during my stay, and the time chosen was September 10—20 ;
thus nine school days were included. The tour was
organised by Mr. and Mrs. Boyer, who are both retired
teachers. The importance of this point cannot be over-
emphasised, because as experienced teachers they have a
sympathetic understanding of children, together with a
knowledge of the teacher’s attitude to matters which lie
outside'the normal curriculum. The outline of the tour,
giving the approximate time of arrival at each school, was
submitted to the Director of Education, who then circularised
the schools. The excellent arrangements and the cordial
welcome given by each school contributed very largely to
the success of the tour, for it was necessary to visit four
schools a day, generally two in the morning and two in the
afternoon, often at some distance apart, and much time
might have been wasted had not the children been ready
for the lecture the moment we arrived.

The time devoted to each school was at least forty-ﬁve
minutes, although in most cases extra time was spent after

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

48 THE ANIMAL YEAR BOOK

the talk in conversation with the staff. The talk itself
lasted from ﬁfteen to twenty minutes, and was followed
by the distribution of suitable animal welfare literature.
A discussion then took place with the pupils on the essay
which they were to write on the talk, the book prizes for the
best essays being exhibited, a practical and stimulating
gesture ! Finally, the head teacher summed up the
proceedings, stressing any important points raised in
connection with animal welfare. After the meeting, the
possibility of continuing this educational work in the school
was discussed with the teachers.

Throughout the tour, I enjoyed the hospitality of Mr. and
Mrs. Boyer, and the interest and value of the work, which
they are carrying out in Flintshire, was so manifest that
their invitation to co—operate in the following year, 1936,
was Welcomed as a great privilege.

The arrangements in 1936 were essentially the same as
be fore, September again being the month chosen. I was
accompanied on this occasion by Mr. R. H. Witt, also of the
South—Eastern Agricultural College, and it was very helpful
to have his assistance. Forty-one schools were Visited ; of
these, twenty-four were the same as in 1935, and seventeen
were different. The following table gives the numbers
for both years and shows how the work was very evenly
distributed between the Deeside Society and ULAWS.

 

I935 1936

 

 

Schools. Pupils. Schools. Pupils.

Talk given by DAWS and _
ULAWS Ratio 50:50 37 2286 34 1966

l

Talk given by DAWS alone 5 460 5 339
Talk given by ULAWS

alone

Total 42 2746 ' 41 241 5

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

AN EXPERIMENT IN HUMANE EDUCATION 49

In addition, the Deeside Society visited sixteen schools in
193 5 and twelve in 1936, and ﬁlm exhibitions were given by
them to forty—eight schools in 193 5 and to sixty—two in 1936.

The talk given'in these various schools was elementary,
dealing with the everyday needs of animals, particularly those
kept as pets. The subject comprised some aspect of animal
welfare and was introduced by a consideration of the meaning
of these two words. In most cases the talk was easily
turned into a discussion between the children and the
speaker, that is, the Socratic method was used, the questions
being devised to bring out important points in logical
sequence, while allowing the children to take the lead. The
language used was very simple ; in Flintshire, many of the
pupils come from Welsh-speaking families to whom English
is a foreign tongue, used only in school.

The talk in 1935 was on “ Animal Welfare,” and in 1936
the question of the “ Freedom of Animals ” was chosen for
discussion. Both these subjects allow wide variation of
treatment, an important point in work of this type, for each
group of children must be approached in a slightly different
way. The plan of the 193 5 talk has been published in the
ULAWS Monograph 5c, “Children and their Pets,” (2)
and .it is hoped to issue a similar pamphlet on the “ Freedom
of Animals.”

The View is universally held that visual aids to a talk
have a great interest for children, and the truth of this
cannot be denied. Nevertheless, it must be remembered
that many of the elementary schools have no facilities for
lantern lectures, since it is generally impossible to darken
the schoolroom during the daytime. Posters, large

pictures and photographs can be judiciously used as sub—
stitutes for lantern slides, but during these two tours visual
aids were dispensed with altogether, except on a few
occasions when they were used by Mr. Witt. An approach
to the children’s imagination was made through their
existing experience and knowledge, some idea of which
could be gained from the pictures and nature—charts hanging
on the walls of the schoolroom.

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

50 THE ANIMAL YEAR BOOK

It can truly be stated that a proper attitude towards
animals is best fostered by the ability to understand animal
behaviour and needs, and to correlate them with those of
man. An inexhaustible ﬁeld for the humane education of
children is therefore at hand, if they can be led by comparison
with their own experience to make some positive rules for
the correct treatment of animals. On this foundation a
true conception of animal welfare can be based, and through
the child’s attitude towards everyday things the subject
can be made real and important to the child’s mind.

BIBLIOGRAPHY
I. HURREN, C. E. Humane Education. 1935. The Animal
Year Book, Vol. 3 . University of London Animal Welfare

Society.
2. AUSTIN, M. D. Children and their Pets. ULAWS.
. Monograph 5c. University of London Animal Welfare

Society.

 

1-".— A-

 




v— ___—.

 

 

_MHW

_,_r,,,..,.._..~,.7 M ._.._ «n-r—VA‘

Wﬂr ; w.— :~.p7.

ANIMALS ABROAD
INTRODUCTION

Edited by F. JEAN VINTER, M.D., B.S.
Hon. Sec. for Animals Abroad, ULAWS

NE of the main ideas in the minds of the founders of

ULAWS was to try and help animals abroad. So far
this aim has not been very widely realised. We have not
been able to send much material help abroad, but an im-
portant preliminary step has been taken in collecting infor-
mation about animal conditions in other countries. To
make this information more widely known the “Animals
Abroad ” section of the Animal Year Book was started in
Volume I and has been continued since. To all who have
helped by contributing articles or information we offer our
sincerest thanks.

We are now in touch with many people abroad, some of
them members of ULAWS, who could undoubtedly make
good use of money or materials sent out to them. It was
felt that the time had come for ULAWS to start a Foreign
Fund; this is being done, and all contributions, general
or for some special purpose, will be gratefully received and
forwarded.

In conclusion, we should like to greet all other societies
which undertake foreign work, and we hope that these
articles may be of as much interest to them as their work is
to us. We particularly welcome the International journal
of the Scottish S.P.C.A. and heartily recommend it to all

our readers.

51

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

52 THE ANIMAL YEAR BOOK

(1) AFRICA

ANIMAL PROTECTION IN THE DESERT

by NINA M. HOSALI, M.Sc.
Hon. Sec., Society for Protection of Animals in North Africa

AM very glad to write an article on the work of the
_ Society for the Protection of Animals in North Africa
in the hope that our experiences may serve to encourage
those who might possibly think of starting such work in
other countries.

The spectacle of animal suffering which greets one in
countries such as Algeria and Tunisia is stupendous ; great
improvement has taken place during the last twelve years
in the districts where the Society has carried on active work,
but there are huge tracts of country as yet untouched where
the improvement is practically negligible. In Algiers and
Tunis in 1925 there were ghastly sights to be seen on all
sides : teams of ﬁve or six slender Arab horses struggling
with heavy drays on steep hills, lashed senselessly and falling
repeatedly ; horses and mules belonging to quite high—class
ﬁrms literally hopping on three legs, often in the last stages
of old age; starving dogs and cats on every side, and,
frequently, litters of their unwanted young rolled up in a
sheet of newspaper and placed in a gutter to die. To-day,
a tourist may visit these towns without much fear of being
unduly harrowed; the horses are in very good condition,
those which were worn-out having been killed off by the
Society, whilst the others are kept free from sores by
constant inspection ; permanent maiming and deformation
is prevented by prompt veterinary attention. A decade ago .
a Visit to the fondouks * in such towns as Nabeul, Sousse,
SfaX, Biskra, etc., revealed (on market days) densely packed.

 

9“ Fondouks are Arab inn-yards, or stable-yards, sometimes open and
sometimes covered. The worst of them are ﬁlthy holes, minus water
supply, drainage or mangers ; the best are quite tolerable stables. They
are often crowded with a mixture- of horses, mules, donkeys, camels,
goats, horned cattle and poultry.

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

ANIMALS ABROAD: AFRICA 53

masses of animals, donkeys for the most part, dappled over
with patches of red, seen only dimly at ﬁrst in the foetid
semi-darkness of these covered stable yards, and then as
the eyes became used to the obscurity, the mind compre-
hended their full meaning. There were saddle sores of all
sorts and descriptions, varying from a harmless but sensitive
skin abrasion to extremely painful ﬁstulous withers, deep
abscesses on backs, shoulders and hips, and sores (often
maggot infested) so 'old that the animal seemed to have
almost got acclimatised to them. A visit to these towns
to-day reveals only a reasonable proportion of sores, and
serious cases are comparatively rare.

I have noticed (or at any rate, imagine I have noticed)
an improvement in towns where we have not worked, and
I can only attribute this to the fact that ofﬁcials such as
comnzz'ssaz'res of police, mayors, etc., school-teachers and
other persons are drafted from one town to another at
intervals of a few years. The effect of the Society’s work
is to educate these Europeans in what ought to be done,
what it is possible to accomplish, and how; and they in-
evitably carry a certain inﬂuence with them when they are
moved to a fresh district. This fact is extremely en-
couraging, since the size of the country makes it impossible
to have centres at more than a few places.

- Much of the suffering is due to climatic and economic
conditions. In the second and third centuries A.D., the
country was well colonised by the Romans, and appears
to have been extremely fertile and well covered with vegeta-
tion. The long drawn out Punic wars, and successive
invasions of Vandals, Goths, Byzantines and Arabs with
ceaseless wars and consequent destruction have im—
poverished the country until vast tracts have become
denuded and desert—like. The country north of the
Sahara is called “ bled ” by the French, and may be sparse
pasture and corn-land, or completely bare earth. Both in
the “bled” and the desert there are periods of drought,
during which the ground becomes so hard that it cannot be
ploughed and it may be impossible to sow seed for a space ‘2

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

54 THE ANIMAL YEAR BOOK

of two years. The scrubby herbage disappears and the
price of grain soars to three or four times its normal ﬁgure.
The Arabs, who are nearly all of them pitifully poor, cannot
afford to buy forage for their donkeys, and these wretched
animals are left standing about in fondouks, slowly starving
and sometimes attempting to eat the saddles or droppings
of the more fortunate ones ; occasionally they are turned out
in the desert to die, for the religious prejudice of their
masters forbids them to grant these poor creatures the boon
of a speedy end. Such a period of drought has supervened
in Algeria during the last few months, and is graphically
described by a French Chevalier de [a Legion d’Honneur and
Grand Mutz'le' d6 Guerre who has recently Visited the region
of T ouggourt 3* :

“ Je ne saurais déﬁnir les nombreuses caravanes de
chameaux et d’anes rencontrés sur le long parcours de
Biskra a Touggourt ; c’est dans cette ville particulierement
que la misére de ces pauvres bétes est surtout lamentable.
On ne reconnait plus les chamauX a la bosse sur le dos dans
ce pays ; car cette bosse, qui indiquait autrefois la santé, a
disparue, 1e manque total de fourrages, 1e travail excessif
demande’ a ces dromadaires en ont fait plus que des bétes
de somme mais des animauX squelétiques auX os décharus
avec des plaies nombreuses.”——(Signé) F. LAYE.

Such periods of drought are usually followed (in the
“ bled ”) by devastating ﬂoods, in which the pitiful efforts
of European colonists and farmers are destroyed, Arab
hutments and their animals are swept away and lost, and
bridges and roads torn up.

The Arabs themselves are terribly brutal and callous to
their animals, but in a country where Nature is herself so

 

at: The Society is about to extend its mission to Touggourt, and is
sending Mlle. Ruperto, accompanied by a trained Arab dresser, to
investigate the possibility of organising an intermittent or permanent
centre there. She intends making the journey by road, in order that
dying animals may be shot on the way, and is taking a stock of grain
P711511 her for distribution to such animals as are not too weak to beneﬁt
rom 1t.

 

 




 

_.._ ”aw—~—

ANIMALS ABROAD: AFRICA 55

cruel, the unavoidable misery so great and the necessities
of life so hard to obtain, one can hardly expect otherwise.
Therefore our aim has always been to help rather than to
punish, and to provide free veterinary care, dressings and
food rather than to mete out proce‘s-verbaux. Morally, I
think, we have been right, although I must confess that at
Sfax (Tunisia), where the local police and French Committee
are particularly keen on punitive measures, the condition
of the animals has if anything improved more rapidly
than elsewhere. However, I have never been able to
ascertain whether this may not be because the country
Arabs are warned by their brethren to give the town a wide
berth, and so park their animals in some other place where
the standard is less strict.

The beginning of our work was the result of a chance
visit to the country in 1921—22, and we started by visiting
the country villages on market days, giving a ﬁrst-aid dressing
to every animal with sores. This apparently haphazard
method was found to produce a marked improvement after
a few weeks, since the same animals came in regularly with
produce on market days. Numerous Arab loafers begged
to be allowed to help, in exchange fOr a few francs, and the
best of these could be selected and trained as dressers.
Although illiterate, they have much patience and very neat
ﬁngers, and are good at the work. The chief diﬂficulty is to
ﬁnd suitable Europeans to supervise the dressers and take a
general interest in the work, the standard of altruism in
North Africa not being markedly high ! Here and there,
however, a Frenchwoman is discovered who displays real
devotion to animals, and there are some who have helped
us unremittingly for ten years or more. The worst cases
of sores or injuries are placed in a fondouk for a few days (or
weeks) for rest and treatment, a mixture of persuasion or
coercion being required to induce the owners to leave them.
The commz'ssaz'res of police have usually been willing to give
an authorisation to conﬁscate animals “ with the owners’
consent,” the latter being as a rule easily obtained with the
threat of a proce‘s! The Arabs are on the whole quiet,

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

56 THE ANIMAL YEAR BOOK

apathetic and fairly unresisting, and are easier to deal With
than Europeans would be. We have sometimes given
money to poor owners when the deprivation of their animal
has caused genuine hardship.

In ﬁve towns we have our own hospital fondouk, the one
at Tunis being the most ambitidus. There, the staff
consists of an English superintendent and his wife, a
Maltese, an Arab, a French woman secretary, and sundry
voluntary helpers, including a Swiss woman (married to an
Arab) who does excellent ﬁrst-aid work in the fondouks;
and a very cosmopolitan local committee. A hospital is
expensive to run, and for the expenditure of any given sum
I think almost better results are obtained by the more
primitive methods adopted in the smaller Villages. Such a
place is, however, necessary if a society is to have any
semblance of prestige or permanency, and in a capital like
Tunis its inﬂuence and propaganda value is very great.

The attitude of the French towards our work has com—
pletely changed during the last twelve years. Sneering
and ascofﬁng have been replaced by respect and co-operation.
In Tunis our hospital is built on land loaned to us by the
municipality, we receive a grant towards the maintenance of
our ambulance horses, and our motor van is maintained at
the town’s expense, and we are practically regarded as one
of the municipal services, our man being telephoned by the
police whenever there is any sort of accident to an animal.

I have said nothing of Mlle. Ruperto, who has performed
miracles at Algiers and at various places in the Department.
Sicilian by birth, naturalised French, she commenced her
career by being nearly smashed up in the Messina earth-
quake, followed up her accident by eighteen years’ Red
Cross service and has ﬁnally adopted our animal work,
although suffering humans never appeal to her in vain.

Perhaps it will be possible to speak of her another time ;
meanwhile, those who are interested in active animal
welfare might do far worse than take a trip across the
Mediterranean to meet her, where they will learn more in
a day’s tourne’e than can be conveyed by any written article.

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

ANIMALS ABROAD: ALBANIA 57

(2) THE ALBANIAN SOCIETY FOR THE
PROTECTION OF ANIMALS

by Lieut.—Colonel D. R. OAKLEY HILL
Hon. See. and Treasurer of the above Society

THE year 1936 should be recorded 1n gold in the annals
of the Albanian Society for the Protection of Animals
(Shoqnija p'er Mbrojtjen e Shtazeve), because of the achieve-
ment of two aims for which it had been striving since its
foundation in 1928.

.The ﬁrst hospital for animals in Albania has been
built, the cost being borne by the Society. Previously the
work had been carried on in a dilapidated building rented
by the Municipality of 'Iirana. The new hospital was
ofﬁcially opened on June 14, 1936, and, since a certain ‘
amount of publicity ensued, it has had to cater for an
increased number of patients. Their treatment is in the
able hands of the Municipal Veterinary Ofﬁcer, Dr. Naim
Vreto, to whose co—operation the Society owes much;
I 19 5 cases were treated during the year, involving 36 major
operations. -

Some of Dr. Vru‘eto 8 disease statistics are interesting to
note: Distomiasis is present in 100 pe1 cent. of Albanian
sheep and cattle, but only in 20 per cent. of goats; Strongy- _
losis in 100 per cent. of sheep and goats ; Echinococcosis in
100 per cent. of sheep, 80 per cent. of cattle, but rare among
goats. Sheep have to graze on low-lying, undrained pastures
in winter, whereas goats feed mostly off leaves on the
foothills. In summer sheep and goats go up to the more
healthy mountain gra'ling grounds, while cattle are bred
mostly 1n the plains.

2. The Government has given approval to the introduc-
tion of humane slaughter. Captive— bolt pistols and am-
munition have been obtained, partly as gifts from English
societies. It is hoped to begin humane slaughter very
soon in Tirana, and then gradually to extend to other towns

as means permit.

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

58 THE ANIMAL YEAR BOOK

Other things achieved or attempted during the year may
be brieﬂy catalogued: In co-operation with the Munici-
pality of Tirana all carriage horses have been inspected,
and those passed ﬁt have had their hooves stamped to
avoid substitution ; renewed orders regarding the treatment
of animals were issued by the Ministry of Interior at the
Society’s request ; bills were posted and leaﬂets distributed
all over the country calling attention to the provisions of
the law with regard to the ill-treatment of animals and
inviting the co-operation of the public in reporting such
cases; a number of unﬁt horses found working in carts
were destroyed, and their owners, if poor, compensated;
1130 stray dogs were painlessly destroyed at Tirana (either
by injection of ether or by captive-bolt pistol); essay
competitions on animal subjects have been arranged in the
schools and in children’s newspapers, prizes being awarded
by the Society ; a series of postcards with animal silhouettes
have been given to schools for distribution to junior boys
and girls obtaining good marks; and the Ministry of
Education has agreed to the inclusion in school curricula
of some instruction in kindness to animals.

It will be seen from the above that much effort is being
concentrated on the rising generation. A number of books
and pictures of animals have also been presented to the
principal girls’ school at Tirana by the late President, Lady
Hodgson, whose departure was a great loss to the Society.

Most of the work has been done at Tirana ; progress in
the branches at Durres and Elbasan has been slow, though
some advance has been made at Valona.

Among problems confronting the Society are: the
appalling state of many of the cart-horses, which it is so
hard to improve because of the poverty of the owners ; the
ignorance of peasants of elementary rules for the care of
animals; the indifference to the sufferings of fowls, which
are transported and generally treated as if they were in—
animate matter; the local custom of taking calves away
from their mothers after twenty-four hours, which is
nullifying the Government’s efforts to improve the breed ;

 




 

ANIMALS ABROAD: CHINA 59

and the method of catching stray dogs. For this last the
Society has always opposed the use of poison, but has not
yet found a satisfactory alternative ; the method employed
at Tirana is a wire noose on a pole, the captured dog being
hustled into a waiting hand-cart.

The income of the Society from voluntary subscriptions
is far from adequate, and an occasional dance has to be
organised to enable it to carry on. Much more effective
work could be done if the Society could aﬁord at least one
paid inspector.

Q)CHINA

by JOHN ALEXANDER (Consul at Shanghai)

LAWS FOR PROTECTION OF ANIMALS
No national laws exist ; there are only local by-laws which
are never enforced and rarely even considered.

DRAUGHT ANIMALS

Ponies, mules and donkeys are used. Their condition
is frightful : underfed, overworked, beaten and covered
with sores. The Shanghai, Hankow, N anking and Tsingtao
Societies are active ; Peking and Tientsin are the worst
cities and have no societies.

SLAUGHTER OF ANIMALS

Horses and cattle are destroyed in Tsingtao by a forehead
perforator hit with a hammer: very good ; elsewhere they
are pole-axed. Sheep and pigs have their throats cut and
are disembowelled before death. Humane killers are used
in Shanghai only.
RELIGION AND CUSTOMS

Buddhists will not take life even to put an animal out
of its misery, but they will allow children or animals to die
of exposure or starvation without a qualm. There are no
religious rites involving animal torture. The general
attitude of the Chinese towards animals is one of indifference.
Birds in captivity are well treated.

5

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

60 THE ANIMAL YEAR BOOK

SPORTS
Performing bears, dogs, etc., are sometimes seen.

Foreigners, especially Japanese, spend their Sundays
killing and maiming birds here as elsewhere.

MARKETS
There is no inspection of markets except in Tsingtao.

F owls are carried head downwards everywhere; they are
usually dipped alive in water and then plucked alive.

TRANSPORT
Animals are driven 011 to and off trains and boats and are

not hoisted by the horns. Pigs are speared and slung on
board.
VETERINARY SERVICE

There is none organised except in Shanghai; it is im-
possible to obtain the services of a veterinary surgeon.

EXPERIMENTS ON ANIMALS
No licensing ; no laws ; frenzied enthusiasm for animal

experiments; the Rockefeller (Peking) and Henry Lester
(Shanghai) Institutes lead in the race. There are thousands
of cruel experiments a year.

PRESERVATION OF WILD LIFE

No efforts are being made to preserve rare species of
animals or birds. There are zoological gardens, but they
are not well kept.

SOCIETIES .
T he N anking Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Report for 1936.

This Society received a subsidy from the Animal Defence
Society of London of $20.00 a month, local currency, until
September 30, 1936. For the last eighteen months, how-
ever, the Society’s progress has not come 'up to expectation.
The pony—pound, established in January, 1935, which was
soon treating up to ﬁfteen animals a month, has now
practically fallen into disuse. For this reason, pending
investigation and re-animation of the Society, the subsidy
has been temporarily discontinued. It must not be for-

 

 




 

 

. ANIMALS ABROAD: CHINA 61

gotten that the political situation in Nanking has militated
against the activities of the Society and diverted interest
from all forms of humanitarian endeavour.

On the other hand, I am pleased to report that the Society
has published a comprehensive little volume‘on animal
welfare advocating complete vegetarianism and absolute
abolition of Vivisection. This has been circulated widely
throughout China, and from it I have made numerous
extracts which have been published in local journals in
various cities in China. This side of the work, being
educative, has the best chance of becoming a permanent
asset in China and should not be minimised. The Society
is to be congratulated on this aspect of its work.

Wuhan Soczety for the Preventzon of Cruelty to Ammals.
Report for 1936.

This Society is to be complimented on being, with the
possible exception of the Chinese and foreign societies in
Shanghai, the most active in China. The pony-pound,
instituted in I 932, was washed away by ﬂoods in the following
year and was never rebuilt owing to the danger of similar
losses. A syStem of inspection of carriage- and draught-
animal stables was instituted instead. This has proved
very satisfactory, some sixteen animals having been pur-
chased during the year and humanely destroyed, the owners
being compensated in those cases where no fault of their
own existed but only extremepoverty. A large number of
cases of overloading and ill-treatment of ponies, mules and
donkeys were investigated and dealt with with the help of
the authorities. The stray dog problem was also tackled,
and the more dangerous animals were painlessly destroyed.

From this it must not be imagined that the Society’s
activities have been limited to the work of destruction;
constructive work has been carried on at the same time.
The press, the cinemas and various advertising agencies, as
well as the local schools, Chinese and foreign, have co-
operated most generously and prizes have been given to
various groups for essays and individual acts.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

62 THE ANIMAL YEAR BOOK

The Society is also in a sound ﬁnancial position, although
as usual it hopes to increase its funds and to expand its

work.

T singtao Lions’ Club Animal Protection Committee.

This Committee has encountered more opposition
amongst the general public of this town and from the
authorities of the city than either of the other societies
mentioned above. '

This is almost incredible in View of the fact that Tsingtao
is supposed to be a model municipality, as in so many
respects it actually is. It may appear irrelevant, but I
should like here to mention that this town has the best
police organisation, the best roads, the best public services,
including water, electric light and telephone, the best
agricultural improvement organisation and last, but not
least, quite the best prison in China. I have myself in-
spected these and found them to compare very favourably
with similar institutions not only in China but in other
parts of the world.

It is for this reason that I am surprised and disappointed
to ﬁnd that humanitarian work here is looked upon as a
fad and a foolish sentimentality. There are exceptions to
this rule, and these are to be seen amongst those ofﬁcials,
private persons and foreigners who work on the committee
of this society. More praise therefore to them for what
they have been able to achieve.

Three separate attempts were made to form a society
and each one was wrecked on the rocks of ofﬁcial objection
and obstruction. The present group is a revival of a
committee within a men’s club of avowed charitable
objectives. Under the protection of the Lions’ Club, the
Committee has been able through the help of the authorities
of the Race Club and other organisations to make use of
the isolation stables. The carriage drivers’ association and
the personnel of the Salvation Army have also proved most
helpful. 7

In terms of concrete achievements, the Society has in a

 




 

 

ANIMALS ABROAD: CYPRUS 63

few months succeeded in clearing the streets of lame or
injured animals, half a dozen or more being treated at a
time. Some were destroyed while others were returned
to their owners free of charge. '

The danger of rabies from stray dogs is mitigated through
the activities of the police department, which are not always
humane but at least are effective. Those dogs which are
found straying without proper licences are shot.

The Committee are pressing for more adequate licensing
and supervision of draught animals, and for the supervision
of the transport of cattle and pigs in which there is a large
trade in this port. A paid veterinary surgeon, an inspector
and a groom are employed, and the subsidy which was
formerly given to the N anking Society is being transferred
to the Tsingtao Committee so as to give this group a good
start, and to enable the members of the Committee to show
the results of their work, which alone. attract funds and
interest.

(“CYPRUS

HE following appeal issued in 1934 by the Nicosian
branch of the Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals shows the position of the Society’s activities at that
time.
“ To ALL LOVERS OF ANIMALS ”

“ You will no doubt realise that a society which depends
mainly on the subscriptions of a number of interested
persons cannot be always in a good ﬁnancial position, and
the S.P.C.A. of Nicosia (the only one in Cyprus) is no
exception. .

“ On account of drought and other economic difﬁculties
experienced throughout the Island the work of this S.P.C.A.
has been very difﬁcult indeed. The circular which was
published last year explained some of the main reasons,
but the situation to-day is much worse.

“ The S.P.C.A. has not been able to raise sufﬁcient funds
to meet one Of its important obligations, that is, the payment

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

64 THE ANIMAL YEAR BOOK

of the rent of the stables. In order to meet a demand for
arrears of rent the Committee has been compelled to
borrow J€30, and it is desirable to repay this as soon as
possible.”

The facts given in this appeal are supported by a letter
to ULAWS from Bay Aziz, M.B.E., Hon. Treasurer of
the Cyprus S.P.C.A., dated February 22, 1936, in which
he states that :—

“ The S.P.C.A. work in this island during the last three
or four years has not been at all satisfactory, due chieﬂy
to the very limited number of persons who take active part
in this good cause.”

It is encouraging, therefore, to ﬁnd that some good work
has been done, as shown by the following statistics :—

I935
Number of animals admitted into Nicosia S.P.C.A.
stables during the year 1935 :~

Donkeys Mules Horses Dogs Cd is Total

1,035 22 37 14 43 . . . 1,151
Number of animals treated and fed free of charge :—

Free Medicine Free Food Free food and Medicine Total

32 4o 24 . . . 96

Number of animals killed :—
Donkeys Mules Horses Dogs Cats Total
3 —— I 1 3 43 . . . 60

Approximate'attendance during the past eight years :——
1927 1928 1929 1930 1931 1932 1933 1934
685 692 783 658 895 855 1,142 1,113

G)GERMANY

POINTS FROM THE GERMAN ANIMAL PROTECTION LAW WHICH
CAME INTO FORCE FEBRUARY 1, 1934

A HORSE may not be docked except on the advice of
a veterinary surgeon. A docked horse may not be
imported without special permission from the Minister of
the Interior.

 

 

 




 

ANIMALS ABROAD : GREECE 65

An anaesthetic must be used for the cutting of the ears
or tail of any dog over two weeks old.

An anaesthetic is required for castration of horses, and
of cattle and pigs Over three months, also for rams and goats
which have attained puberty.

Animals on fur farms must be humanely destroyed.

A performing animal must not be over-worked or ill-
treated. Animals used in ﬁlm production must not be
endangered in life or limb.

Poultry must not be forcibly fed.

Animal experiments may only be conducted by persons
holding permits, and accurate records must be kept. Persons
performing experiments without permit are liable to six
months’ imprisonment. In animal experimentation an
anmsthetic must be used if it will not defeat the object of
the experiment, unless the distress caused by the experi-
ment would be judged less than that caused by the
anaesthetic. Only one serious operation or painful blood-
less experiment may be performed on any one animal.
The minimum number of animals must be~ used. Experi-
ments for teaching purposes are only permitted when other
methods, such as ﬁlms, are judged inadequate.

Responsible persons failing to restrain children from
cruelty to animals are liable to punishment.

The law was signed by :—

ADOLF HITLER .. Reichskanzler.
FRICK . . Der Reichsminister des Inneren.
GﬁRTNER . . . . Der Reichsminister der Justiz.

m)GREECE

by WILLIAM MILLER, M.A. (Oxon.), Hon. LL.D.'(Athens),
F.R.Hist.S., F.B.A.

N October 4, 1936, the World Day for Animals
was celebrated for the fourth time; this was again
organised by Mr. Lagondakes, who also edits the bi-
monthly Greek Am‘mals’ Friend. The arrangements in—

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

66 THE ANIMAL YEAR BOOK

cluded the giving of badges in the streets by Scouts and
Guides, a lecture by Mr. Nirvanas and a recitation. The
celebration received good press notices, which resulted in
many inquiries about the work. '

The Athens S.P.C.A. celebrated their twentieth anni-
versary by asking the King to unveil, at the Dogs’ Refuge,
a tablet in memory of their founder, the late Queen Sophia.
The Society has so far a regrettably small membership,
particularly of more wealthy people. The chief work up
to the present has been the collecting of stray dogs; in ten
months, 1,940 were restored to their owners, and the rest
put painlessly to sleep. Great use is made of the two
drinking-troughs at Athens and Piraeus, the one at Piraeus
being the gift of ULAWS. The work of the Society is
much hampered by lack of funds and by the fact that a
regular inspector can only be employed by the enterprise
of private individuals, who pay his salary.

The most encouraging part of the work is that among
children. The members of the childrens’ branch pledge
themselves to be kind to animals, wear a badge and receive
copies of the Animals" Friend, to which they may contribute
news and sketches. A standing committee has been
formed of members of the schools of Athens and Piraeus
which consists of about sixty boys and girls, who make it
their business to interest their schoolfellows. This move—
ment is spreading to other provinces.

New slaughterhouses are being erected under the auspices
of the Mayor (now also a Minister), who is trying to introduce
the use of the humane killer. Efforts are also being made
under rather discouraging conditions to establish a branch
of the People’s Dispensary for Sick Animals, which is very
badly needed.

The Society has lost a great friend in the late M. Venizelos ;
it was he who brought in the law in 1932 authorising the
Society to collect stray dogs, and initiating a more humane
way of so doing.

In February, 1937, M. Rouphos and M. Philon resigned
the Presidency and the Vice-Presidency respectively of the

 

 




 

 

 

ANIMALS ABROAD! GREECE 67

Athens S.P.C.A., oﬂices which they had held for many
years. The Society has been fortunate in securing the con-
sent of Princess Catherine, the youngest sister of the King, to
assume the ofﬁce of President. The Princess is a great
enthusiast in the cause of animals. The Vice-Presidency
has been accepted by Mrs. Crowe, an English lady, the wife
of a prominent British shipowner, long resident in Greece.

The following reports from provincial towns have been
received :—

Salonika. Society of the University of Salonika for the
Protection of Animals. Chairman: The President of the
University. It conducts no activities at present.

Salonika Society for the Protection of Animals. Presi-
dent: M. Kleanthes Tsokanakes. It has a few active
members. They are doing considerable work among
drivers and are reaching the poorer classes.

A permanent local committee for the celebration of the
World Day for Animals each year is being organised by
Miss Helene Kotoula of the Salonika Chamber of Commerce,
assisted by Mr. Herbert Lansdale of the Y.M.C.A. The
Committee will conduct propaganda throughout the year,
hoping to organise a Propaganda Bureau.

V010. Thessalian Society for the Protection of Animals.
President: Miss Sophia Topali, a prominent lady of the
community. The Society was organised last year on the
occasion of Animal Day. It is an active Society. They
have made plans to construct a drinking fountain for
animals. The site for the fountain has been granted by
the local authorities.

Neos Pyrgos (Euboea). N 0 activities are reported. There
is a very active person at the head of the Society.

Canea (Crete). Cretan Society of Friends of Animals.
President: Mrs. Kruger. This is the oldest Society in
Greece.

Palms. No activities of the Society are reported. The
person active in promoting animal work is M. A. Ph.
Zoiopoulos, steamship agent.

Drama. Eastern Macedonian League of Friends of

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

68 THE ANIMAL YEAR BOOK

Animals. Chairman: M. Theophilos Athanasiades,
Director of the Drama Chamber of Commerce. Regular
publicity for the protection of animals appears in the
Journal, edited by the Chamber of Commerce. It co-
operates with the police.

Exochz' (Kozani). Society for the Protection of Animals.
Chairman: M. John Eleutheriades, President of the
Community and School Council. School teachers and
older students are mobilised to act as inspectors in the
market place and at fairs.

The following persons are at present taking the initiative
in organising local societies for the protection of animals,
from all of whom there are letters to that effect. Their
endeavours have been directly inspired by the propaganda
during the celebration of the World Day for Animals last
October.

Candid (Crete). M. N. Singelakes, Veterinary Surgeon
to the Minister of Agriculture. He wrote the book The
Slaves, a zoophile novel, and is a regular contributor to the
Anz’mals’ Friend.

Chalkz's. Mrs. Theodorou, a school teacher, and head of a
local young women’s organisation, is working to form a
society.

Chz'os. M. S. Gordatos, Veterinary Surgeon to the
Ministry of Agriculture. Came to Athens and asked for
information to organise a society in this island.

Corinth. Professor John Papachristos has asked for the ‘
statutes and by-laws of the Athens Society to organise a
similar one in New Corinth. .

T rz'kkala. M. Tryphon Papathanasiou, public school
superintendent, has made plans for a society, and is now
engaged in bringing together prominent members of his
community to head the organisation.

Elassona. M. Basil G. Zachariades has announced his
intention of organising a humane society.

Kladomchi (F lorina). M. George Parzis, school teacher,
is organising a local branch with the assistance of M.
Z. Lamprinides. They have already framed a constitution.

 

 




 

 

 

 

ANIMALS ABROAD: INDIA . 69

Sym. Mrs. Margaret Kalvocoressi is founding a society
in this island.

Pyrgos. M. A. Chrysaphis, editor of the local magazine
Elz'aca Chrom'ca, has announced his plans for a society,
and has made a public appeal through his publication.

(7) I N D I A . (a) NORTH INDIA

AMRITSAR' S.P.C.A.
by Dr. KATHLEEN VINE, Hon. Sec., Amritsar S.P.C.A.

HE work of this society has now produced a notable
improvement in the condition of animals plying in
the city and coming in from the country districts.

After seven years of steady pressure, owners ﬁnd that it .
does not pay to bring unﬁt animals within the reach of the
Society’s agents. One can now go right down to the end
of the town without meeting a single lame or wounded
animal. This used to be impossible. Also the standard
of animal in use has very greatly improved.

We make a point of visiting the railway station once or
twice a month at the time of the night trains. If any of
our staff are there on duty, word is quickly passed round
among the tonga drivers, and would- be passengers ﬁnd
themselves deposited by the roadside with their luggage.
They have to wait to be taken up to the railway station by
the next tonga that has a sound horse.

The same thing happens at the entrances to the city.
Lame horses, etc. are brought In as lar as the municipal
limits and there the animals are dumped down so that the
lame ones can go back to Tarn Taran or Rajah Sansi
without risk of being detained. Owners are not so much
afraid of the ﬁnes, which have always been reasonable, but
they do dislike having to treat and care for their animals
in the Inﬁrmary. The owners of donkeys, mules and pack
ponies, who work at the brick kilns and elsewhere, station
two or three of their number as patrols at each of the

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

70 THE ANIMAL YEAR BOOK

entrances to the city. These men keep each other informed
as to the direction in which the inspector is going round.
As he approaches, all lame or unﬁt animals are stopped or
hidden away until the danger is past. Sometimes it seems
as if the earth has opened and swallowed up a lame animal,
so quickly does it disappear. It has become a tug-of—war
between the owners and the Society. The owners intend
to do as they please with their beasts and circumvent the
Society by some means or other, in spite of the fact
that the convenience of the owners has always been one
of our chief considerations. The question is how to protect
the animal with least discomfort to the owner.

In March, 1935, we received 600 rupees from the
Amritsar Municipality towards the feeding of ownerless
animals and the compensation of poor owners. As this
money is not paid in advance we have to be most economical
with fodder, and have often hardly enough for even the
ownerless animals. During the ﬁnancial year ending
March, 1936, we have not received this grant. This causes
great hardship to owners living at a distance; they must
deposit money enough for feeding before leaving their
animals in our care. As each animal comes in, we like
to give it-a good feed until the owner can bring his own
supply for it. The poorer the owner, then the worse
the condition of the animal ; the longer it needs detention the
less can the owner afford to pay for it. In some cases the
owners do not come at all unless a summons is sent. Often
we have to care for, treat and feed the animal for weeks
on end, and then the owner cannot meet the cost and the
Society has to shoulder the burden.

We also have to supply eye fringes, leather shackles for
the feet, and ropes andsacking to cover the wounds, else
the crows would rip up the ﬂesh. All this is greatly
appreciated by the owners, especially the shackles, because
they themselves so often tie slip—knots which tighten round
the fetlock and cause damage to the leg and sometimes lame-
ness. In spite of vigilance, many owners take these articles
away with them, having learnt their value in our stables.

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

ANIMALS ABROAD: INDIA 71

We should like to keep the supply equal to the demand.
Many owners need help with the feeding, and we have to
refuse, saying that we have no money. Animals cannot
live without fodder, and we cannot feed them without funds.

We are almost entirely dependent for the salary of our
minimum staff upon the Government grant, about Rs.Iooo,
being the money received in ﬁnes. Since November, 1935,
all the ﬁnes received under the SPCA. Act were credited
to the Municipality, and we have been referred to this local
body for the grant. Up to the end of the ﬁnancial year,
March, 1936, no money has been forthcoming from the
Municipality. It is to be regretted that the work depends
for its very existence on these ﬁnes, but at present it seems
the only way. The work is so difficult, and the city has
beneﬁted so much from our efforts, that we earnestly hope
the city fathers will be reasonable, if not generous, and will
give us back what they actually receive in ﬁnes. Donations
from people outside Amritsar have been more generous,
and we deeply appreciated the gift of Rs.132 from Our
Dumb Friends’ League.

It is difficult for an ordinary person to know when an
animal is suffering from sores on the back or other wounds
as the drivers are careful to cover them up. Visible sores
are painted over with charcoal or some dark substance, and
the others hidden under coverings. When the Inspector
sees an animal emaciated or walking with difficulty or
accompanied by a swarm of ﬂies, he has the coverings
removed and inspects the animal. If it is only slightly
injured he warns the driver; if the injuries are severe the
animal is taken to the veterinary surgeon for a certiﬁcate and
an order for detention is obtained from the magistrate.

We have not been able to bring any offender to book
for the cruel operation of phdka’ * which is freely practised
among the gujjars of the city.

 

3* NOTE on thika’, from Mother India, page 221 : The object [of
phu’ka’] is to increase and prolong the milk production of cows. It is
committed in several ways, but usually consists in thrusting a stick on
which is bound a bundle of rough straw into the vagina of the cow and
twisting it about, to produce irritation.

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

’72 THE ANIMAL YEAR BOOK

The buffalo question is most pressing and beset with
difﬁculty. Almost every animal is subjected to severe
treatment in order to make him drag the maximum load
permitted by the Municipality, 5o mazmds (1% tons) ex-
cluding the weight of the cart (another I4. cwt.). Calcutta
complains of _ 5o maunds for two bullocks or buffaloes.
Alas for Amritsar! We have to look on helpless while
50, 60 or 70 mazmds are drawn by one animal. The ghastly
condition of the roads increases the suffering tenfold.
Rest is absolutely essential for these beasts for three or four
hours at midday from May to August. A by-law is needed
to effect this. Letters and complaints are being constantly
sent in from the public, but private contractors’ carts are not
licensed nor are their loads weighed. At, night the sights
are very painful. Between eleven and twelve bullocks and
buffaloes are yoked in heavily loaded carts even when they
are too lame to drag themselves along._ There are no police
on point duty, and one is often too tired to act as inspector
at that time. We are trying to tackle this question also.

(1)) BOMBAY PRESIDENCY

A NEWCOMER IN AHMEDNAGAR
by BETTY V. MEWS

HAVE been at Ahmednagar for ﬁve months now, as
my husband’s regiment is stationed there. We have
done a good deal of motoring in the country districts, and
one sees some sad sights in the villages. The people are
very primitive, and depend for their entire livelihood on
their herds of cattle, ﬂocks of sheep and goats, and piece of
arable land. Many possess no money at all and barter in
kind. Ahmednagar used to be a “ famine area.” In this
part of India the people have a reputation for being kind to _
their animals, and I think they are according to their
lights. If the animals are thin so are the owners, food
will only just go round. There was practically a famine in.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

BULLOCK CART. (Note tree-trunk in front.)

To face page 72.]

 

 




 

 

 

 




 

r44 #3, A4,-”

ANIMALS ABROAD: INDIA ’73

the whole district this summer as the monsoon failed.
Relief work was done for the peasants, but the animals died
by thousands of thirst and starvation.

N ow to be more precise :—

BULLOCKS -

These are used for pulling carts. Some are very thin,
others are in excellent condition; I suppose they vary
according to their owners’ condition of poverty. The
population being almost entirely Hindu, the cow and all
her kind are sacred and may not be killed. When the
cattle’s time of usefulness is over they are either left to die
of starvation or possibly kept alive until they die of old age
(if their owners are very fond of them). The alternative
is to get them taken into the local pz'ry'arapole, or “ cattle’s
almshouse,” where certain rich Hindus secure themselves
a place in Heaven by supporting their poorer brethren’s
cattle. The sight of these animals is dreadful; some have
three legs, some paralysed hind-quarters, some are in the
last stages of emaciation ; I can’t tell you'what a staggering,
deformed, miserable crowd they are.

WATER BUFFALO

They are hardly ever used in draught here, but are much
used for milk. I see them being bathed in the river in the
evening and they seem to lead a pleasant, easy life.

PONIES

These are thin little country—breds, ridden by natives
who seem too big for them, but they ride slowly and the
sacking used as a saddle looks soft and comfortable for both
parties. When turned out to graze these ponies are hobbled
by tying either the front feet together or any two others.
The hobble is often too tight and always looks uncomfortable
in the extreme. Opinions differ amongst the English as to
the least uncomfortable form of roping up. No doubt
something of the sort has to be done.

The tonga ponies vary like the bullocks, but on the
whole look less well used. The ones in our cantonment
are inspected twice a year, and are, of course, always more

 




 

 

 

 

 

74 THE ANIMAL YEAR BOOK

or less under the eye of authority. All the same, about half
of them look old and debilitated and all are consistently
overdriven and continually whipped. This is to please
their passengers (often British Tommies), who would
probably take another tonga if the one they were in did not
go full out all the time.

DONKEYS*

These are driven about in herds along the roads. The
packs they carry do not look heavy and they are under-
lined with a sack. The strap under the tail is sometimes too
tight and cuts into the ﬂesh, and sometimes the animals are
lame. They are of tiny build; many are cow-hooked
through being worked too soon.

C H I C K E N S

They wander about all Villages freely, picking up what
they can. Their bad time comes when they are carried to
market by the legs, and they often reach the customer in
an utterly exhausted condition.

D 0 G S

' Every Village and farm has its crowd of “ pie dogs ” and
I think they are the worst sight of all. They are allowed
to breed freely and are never destroyed, unless they get
rabies and become dangerous. They get no food, I should
say, except what they can scro'unge, and they belong to no
one. They are very thin and mostly mangy and their
lives are very short. After about a year they develop
skin disease, and in two or three years they are dead.
Besides these there are some dogs which evidently have a

* NOTE by Mrs. Wilkin, Founder of Amritsar S.P.C.A. : “ In the
Punjab, where we were, the donkeys were always very heavily laden and
the sacking over their backs was usually left there night and day, you
can imagine the state their backs got in. One donkey I particularly
remember ; we were going into camp and the Head Constable, who was
put on by my husband for my work, was bringing in two or three dozen
, donkeys all more or less lame or with bad sores ; this special one sank
down at once, and when I went to it and ordered the load and covering
to be taken OH, about a foot or more of ﬂesh came off too, leaving a huge
raw wound. I am afraid that is often the case; it is terrible how they
are treated as a Whole.”

 

 

 




 

 

ANIMALS ABROAD: INDIA 75

master, and some I have seen are in sufﬁciently good con—
dition to run after a car half a mile at 25 m.p.h.
SHEEP

We don’t often see sheep. ’ The ﬂocks look fairly well,
but the mutton we eat is very pOOr.
GOATS

These are the one kind of animal that thrives and looks
simply splendid on the dried-up and wretched grazingvthat
prevails round here. How they get their nourishment I
can’t imagine.
BIRDS

A few parrots are seen conﬁned in tiny cages, but other-
wise no captive birds.

On ’the whole the impression I get is that the animals live
a more natural life here than in the West. Horses, cattle,
dogs, chickens and goats all live quietly with their owners
without the necessity of tying up or caging. On the other
hand, when they are sick or dying their plight is, of course,
much worse ; once again they are left to nature.

It took me several months of inquiry to discover whether
there was a functioning S.P.C.A. in the station, but I ﬁnally
ran it to earth and found it had been started four or more
years ago by an Englishwoman, but is now chieﬂy run by
Indians. The Society has done a lot of essential work by
employing two inspectors, reputed to be quite good, who
prosecute and warn the owners of badly treated animals in
the cantonment and city. They sometimes take the animals
to the civil veterinary hospital or supply remedies them-
selves. The owners of lame or galled animals are now
afraid to bring them to Ahmednagar, but whether they take
more care of them or leave them at home and borrow others,
I do not know. At any rate the number of cases is un-
doubtedly greatly reduced. An almost adequate number
of water troughs have been erected by certain members of
the Society—one is in memory of a departed relation, another
is reputed to be so ornate that the animals are afraid to go
near it, but I have not seen that one !

6

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

76 THE ANIMAL YEAR BOOK

A big scandal here has been caused by the treatment .of
animals for slaughter. The Government cattle, supplied
to the troops, have a splendid yard ﬁtted with water troughs
and shelters and the animals look in excellent condition,
but those bought by private butchers for our consumption
are in a wretched plight. On Mondays they are driven
home nine miles from market; they are then tied up in
threes or fours to the railings of a tiny enclosure with
practically no shelter, and no water troughs. They go out
sometimes into the jungle to graze, but there is practically
nothing to pick up there now. They are reputed to be
watered and given a little grain or dried grass, and they are
not always tied to the railings, but only a quarter of them
can get shelter from the broiling sun. As some are not
slaughtered for nearly a week after they are brought in,
there is no doubt that these must suffer severely from
prolonged hunger, thirst and exposure. The butchers
are not going to waste more money on condemned animals
than will just keep them alive. The cantonment has
promised at last to make a proper enclosure for them at
considerable expense, and the butchers will have to pay so

much a day for their keep.

(8) ITALY

by Commendatore LEONARD HAWKSLEY

HUMANE SLAUGHTER

Thanks to the enthusiasm and hard work of Cav. N iemack,
Chairman of the Lucca Society, compulsory humane
slaughter of all animals by captive-bolt pistols has been
adopted in 231 municipal abattoirs (including the one at
Rome) and in 48 private slaughter houses, all of which
are under the constant supervision of the inspectors of the
Hawksley Society for the Protection of Animals and
Birds.

In 1930 Cav. Niemack invented a strong and simple
captive-bolt killer, much cheaper than those made in

 

 




 

 

ANIMALS ABROAD: ITALY 77

England, which is manufactured at Lucca and is not
patented, and for which the cartridges are made in Italy for
75 lire (£1 163.) per thousand. At ﬁrst it was necessary
to present a spare killer to the small abattoirs in addition
to the one which was bought by the town, as frequently
the latter would refuse to buy two, and, when one killer
had got out of order, humane slaughter would have been
permanently abandoned if there had not been a second
killer in reserve to use while the ﬁrst was being repaired.
Cartridges also had to be supplied free to two towns for
some years, but now all the municipalities buy at least two
killers and pay for the cartridges. Repairs are still executed
gratis by the Society for many small towns.

The Government Regulations for slaughter-houses issued
in 1928 authorise the use of “ captive-bolt pistols, the nape-
stab or any other method which may be approved by the
County Prefect.” The captive—bolt pistol was introduced
into Italy in November, 1924, by the late Miss Violet Wood
with Mr. Hawksley’s assistance ; the nape—stab is forbidden
in Great Britain, and is allowed in very few slaughter-houses
in Germany; and the methods permitted by the Prefect,
because his opinion has never been asked, are often barbarous '
in the extreme.

LEGISLATION

In February, 1930, a book entitled Vz'm'sectz'on was pub-
lished by Dr. Gennaro Ciaburri. The book was shown to the
Duce, who was so shocked by its revelations that he ordered
the Director—General of Public Health to draft a Bill which
should greatly limit experiments on animals and supersede
the three Acts then in force. A Bill to restrict experiments
on mammals and birds was submitted to Mussolini, and
was presented by him to the Chamber of Deputies on
May 26, 1930; but it did not become law until June 12,
1931.

In consequence of an agitation led meanwhile by .Father
Agostino Gemelli, a Franciscan experimenter and Rector
of the Catholic University of Milan, the Senate greatly-
modiﬁed the Bill, each restriction being immediately

 




 

 

 

 

78 THE ANIMAL YEAR BOOK

followed by permission to disregard it in case of necessity,
while the obligation to procure a licence was conﬁned to
persons who had not completed a course of three years’
study in medicine and surgery, or two years’ study in
veterinary and natural sciences. Only County Medical
Ofﬁcers of Health are authorised to inspect experiments,
and only one of them is known to have done so
hitherto.

From time to time newspapers and humane journals
have erroneously stated that there were new laws for the
protection of animals in Italy. With the exception of the
above Act, which professes to regulate experiments on
animals, and its equally unfortunate predecessor of 1927,
no new laws have been passed since I913 ; but the revised
Penal Code, which came into force on July 1, 1931, increased
the minimum ﬁne from 1 lira (2%(1. or 5 cents) to 100 lire
(£1 1s. 861. or $5.25), and the maximum from 100 lire to
3,000 lire (£32 53. 1d. or $159.50), while it added that the
penalty was to be still further increased (to what amount
was not stated) if the animals were used in public games or
spectacles, and that cabmen who were habitual offenders
were to have their licences suspended (for how long was not
speciﬁed), which in practice is never done. Carters do not
have licences. The minimum ﬁne is so large, when added
to costs, which amount to about 45 lire (9s. 9d. or $2.45),
that many magistrates now acquit poor persons whom they
would formerly have convicted. In Rome magistrates
rarely inﬂict more than the minimum ﬁne.

The Penal Code still punishes only those who ill—treat
or overwork animals “ without necessity,” with the result
that accused persons are sometimes acquitted because the
magistrates or the judges of the Supreme Court of Cassation
consider that their cruelty was necessary. In July, 1935,
the court ruled that the goading of oxen with a long, blunt
prod till the blood ran was not punishable because it was
necessary.

There is still no imprisonment for cruelty, but the new
Code of Penal Procedure, which came into force on the

 

 

 

 

 




 

ANIMALS ABROAD: ITALY 79

. same day as the Penal Code, provides that all persons who
do not pay a ﬁne inﬂicted for any offence shall be im-
prisoned for twenty-four hours for each 50 lire unpaid
instead of for each 10 lire, as before.

In some large towns cases are not tried for many months,
and if meanwhile a fresh summons is taken out every day
against a habitual offender, the ﬁne is generally not increased
in consequence. There is no legal way of removing an
ill—treated or unﬁt animal from work, either before or after
the conviction of its owner, except by purchase. The
Nazz’one reported in July, 1933, how one man had had
ﬁfty summonses for working animals in an unﬁt state, yet
still continued to do so. Persons who ill-treat dogs or other
animals cannot be deprived of them or forbidden to possess
others. The laws for the protection of animals are never
enforced where there is not a society at work.

CAPRI

On November 15, 1932, His Excellency Acerbo, then
Minister of Agriculture and Forests and now President of
the International Institute of Agriculture at Rome, signed
a decree whereby the shooting and netting of birds on the
island of Capri were forbidden until further orders (not
“for ever,” as was erroneously announced in the news-
papers). This decree came into force on December 7.
The nets were then taken down but shooting was still
going on to some extent in May, 1934, when the lieutenant
in command of the Carabinieri at Capri wrote, in reply to
a protest from the Society, that he would order his sub-
ordinates to exercise greater vigilance. In August, 1935,
the Society’s Secretary went there and found that shooting
had ceased, but trapping still continued.

The quail usually arrive in the early morning, having
accomplished the ﬂight of 445 miles from Tunisia in less
than thirty hours; they all leave immediately after sunset
on the same day, many of them crossing the Alps to
the Adriatic coast, which they reach between 2 and 3 a.m.,
these heavy and clumsy birds having thus ﬂown another
200 miles in ﬁve or six hours. They then follow the

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

80 THE ANIMAL YEAR BOOK

Italian coast in a north-westerly direction, and most of them
proceed to Poland, where they settle until the return ﬂight
in the autumn, although some remain scattered throughout
Italy all the summer.

Before leaving Africa, the quail wait on the coast until
the weather is favourable ; but occasionally they encounter
a storm during their ﬂight, in which case they reach Capri
so exhausted that they will not move unless prodded.
When this happens men beat them to death and then send
them to Naples, whence they are exported in cold storage
to foreign countries.

Capri is not a bird sanctuary, for the island consists of a
rock with no water, exCept what IS collected in tanks from
the rainfall or brought over from Naples. Hence there are
no resident birds, except in private grounds, where water
is provided for them. No birds have ever been known to
come to England from Capri or any other part of Italy,
the direction of their migration being south-west to north—
east, or vice-versa.

A bird sanctuary was founded in the summer of 1933
by the National Research Council in the park of the
Agricultural College at Stra, near Padua, under the super—
vision of Professor Ghigi. This is the only bird sanctuary
in Italy. There areVnone in the parks of Rome, nor has
there ever been an exhibition for bird protection in that

city.
ABYSSINIAN WAR
The Abyssinian war caused the commandeering in Italy

of' many thousands of animals and of great quantities of

‘ mechanical means of. transport, with the consequence that

comparatively very few animals were left to do all the work,
and these were, of course, those which were unﬁt for
military service. At the same time the price of fodder
rose enormously, so that most of the animals were underfed.
Many motor lorries have returned from Abyssinia since the
end of the war, but the price of petrol is still Very high,
although it has come down from 53. 8d. a gallon to 25. Iod.,
so that motor traction is not much in use.

 

 

 




 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

To face page 81.]

 




 

 

ANIMALS ABROAD 2 ITALY 81

METHODS ADOPTED BY THE HAWKSLEY
SOCIETY

This Society was founded in January, 1927, with the
following objects: (a) To irender ﬁnancial and other
assistance to societies and persons in Italy engaged in the
protection, conservation and welfare of animals and birds
in Italy, and to promote and assist in the formation of new
societies with similar objects, such ﬁnancial assistance to

~ consist not of grants of money but of the refund of expenses

previously authorised by the Hawksley Society. (6) To
refund the wages of uniformed inspectors in the employ-
ment of Italian societies for the protection of animals and
birds. (c) and (d) To carry on educational and publicity
work. (6) To erect and maintain in Italy free hospitals and
dispensaries for sick animals of the poor. (f) To erect,
enlarge, improve and maintain in Italy temporary homes for

.lost dogs and cats. (g) To further by any means the

humane slaughter of animals for food in Italy. (It) To
provide and erect drinking troughs for animals in Italy and
to provide means for watering animals from public stand-
pipes or otherwise.

The Hawksley Society does not compete with any other,
as its aim is to assist the poorer Italian societies and to

carry on in Rome the work which has been dropped by the

Roman Zoophilist Society. It does not appeal for funds
in Italy, as this would defeat the object in View; the only
exception is in Rome, where the local society has repeatedly
announced in the Press and in its own journal that it wants
no support from foreigners. Gifts offered spontaneously
by friends in Italy are, however, most acceptable.
'Between 1928 and 1935 the Society has stationed
uniformed inspectors in the following towns: Alassio,
Bologna, Bolzano, Carrara, Catania, Cava, Civitavecchia,
F rosinone, Lucca, Modena, Montecatini, Rapallo, Rimini,
Rome, Siena, Spezia, Taormina and Viareggio. Ten
drinking troughs have been erected and are maintained in
various parts of Italy, and ﬁfty tubs for watering animals
are kept under stand-pipes in Rome. The Society has a

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

82 THE ANIMAL YEAR BOOK

free hospital and dispensary for sick animals of the poor
at Catania, and has contributed towards the erection Of
dogs’ homes in Catania and Como. Over 10,000 starving
or injured cats have been humanely destroyed.

The “ incredibly barbarous ” treatment of the oxen
drawing carts loaded with marble from the quarries to the
town Of Carrara, which was so vividly described by Dickens,
continued unchecked until May, 1906, when Mr. Hawksley
placed an inspector there. This inspector’s wages have
been paid by the Society since its foundation. There are'
now also six honorary inspectors, who have full police
powers but whose occupations generally prevent their
going to the quarries when the oxen are there. The last
mile or so Of the primitive single track, with ruts 14 inches
deep full of marble chips, into which the wheels sink, was
replaced in 1933 by a broad asphalted road which can be
used by motor lorries. This district includes Massa, where
there are more quarries, and Avenza, the port where the
marble is shipped. Since the Anglo-Italian Trade Agree-
ment was signed in November, 1936, over 20,000 tons of
Carrara marble have been ordered by British importers.

(9)JAPAN~

THE CHOSEN SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION
OF CRUEDTY To ANUMALS,IGHﬂl CHOSEN
(SEOUL, KOREA)

by Mrs. GERALD BONWICK
Treasurer of the Chosen S.P.C.A.
from information supplied by Dr. Matsuzaki, Veterinary

Surgeon to the Municipality Of Seoul, and translated by Mr.
Kim Tong Kil and Mr. Bonwick.

LAWS
The laws themselves appear to be sufﬁciently elaborate ;

the diﬂiculty is to induce the authorities to institute prosecu-
tions, and it is this kind Of work that occupies a large part
of the time. of our full—time inspector.




 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

ANIMALS ABROAD: JAPAN (KOREA) 83

Abstracts of Police Regulations concerning the Prevention
of Cruelty to Animals are given below 2——

(1) “Those who are convicted of the following offences
shall be imprisoned or ﬁned :—

“ Persons who are guilty of cruelty to oxen, horses
or other animals, especially in public places. Persons
found guilty of injuring or destroying water troughs
erected for the use of animals.

(2) “ Teams are not to consist of more than two oxen or
two horses, nor may a team draw more than two carts
fastened together.

(3) “ Oxen and horses which have a habit of wildness or
are wounded in such a way as to interfere with their
work are prohibited from drawing carts.

(4) “Those who are driving oxen or horses are not per-
mitted to be seated on the cart unless a driver’s seat
and a brake are provided.

(5) “The chief of police has authority to limit, stop or
prohibit the use of any carts, oxen or horses which

are found to be in bad condition. The size of the

load may also be limited.”

DRAUGHT ANIMALS

Oxen, horses, ponies and a few mules and donkeys are
used for draught purposes. Their physical condition is
apt to change according to the season of the year. In the
winter time, when work is much less, oxen and horses grow
fatter and are in better condition, but from spring to fall,
when they are often over-worked, they lose weight and are
in poor condition.

By the common law one cartload must not exceed 300 kan
(about 2,500 lb.) except in the case of coal deliveries, which
are permitted to exceed 500 kan. The carriers, however, are
mostly poor people and uneducated; their horses are aged
and thin, ill—fed and often wounded. These animals are not
ﬁtted to draw these heavy loads and there is much suffering,
especially when the driver is an ignorant coolie.

As a rule the oxen are far better treated and cared for
than the horses. This is because oxen are understood

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

84 THE ANIMAL YEAR BOOK

better, as they have been in domestic use for thousands of
years. Horses are only of recent usage, many of them
being throw-outs from military service and not accustomed
to pulling carts. Often the drivers are afraid of them and
half starve them to break their spirit. The only organisa—
tion in Korea which is interested in the suffering of animals
is the Chosen S.P.C.A. In Seoul, the capital, the full—time
inspector is always on the streets with authority to stop
over-loaded carts and insist on their re-arrangement to
conform with the law. He also ministers to any animal
wounded or in distress, and gives treatment to thousands
every year. He also superintends thirteen water-troughs
erected by this society in Seoul and three in Chemulpo,
and several coolies assist him by keeping the troughs in
good order. Occasionally a kind-hearted policeman will
give his protection to an ill—treated animal and bring the
case before a judge, but most prosecutions arise from the
evidence of the S.P.C.A. Inspector, Mr. Yi. He is a great
enthusiast and lover of animals, and is well known through-
out the city of Seoul ; he is an excellent representative of
our Society in a variety of circumstances.
SLAUGHTER OF ANIMALS

In the case of horses and oxen one hard stroke on the
forehead is given with a hammer which has a sharp round
chisel on it. The animal is stunned by the stroke; the
throat is then cut so that the animal bleeds to death. In
some abattoirs a gun is used for slaughtering. All large
animals must be killed at the public abattoirs. There are
practically no sheep in Korea. Pigs are killed at the regular
slaughter-houses by throat-cutting.

All slaughter-houses are strictly inspected; there is also
a medical examination of all animals before slaughter. All
meat is inspected and must bear the government stamp
before being exposed for sale in the markets.
STRAY DOGS AND CATS

Cats are few in number and are not liked; they are
generally ﬁerce and wild and forage for themselves. Special
. days each spring, or oftener, are appointed for dog—catching

 

 

 

 




 

 

ANIMALS ABROAD: JAPAN (KOREA) 85

by officials armed with wire nooses which grip the running
animals by the feet. Dogs thus caught are kept for three
days and then, if unclaimed, are put to death by a club.

Dogs are valued as food by the lower classes in Korea,
and are usually strangled. Cats are not used for food.
There are practically no other domesticated animals.

Domestic fowls are killed by twisting the neck. The
feathers are generally pulled off before the bird is dead,
as if the body grows cold the plucking is regarded as more
diﬂ'icult. This Society endeavours to encourage the cutting
off of the head before plucking.

RELIGION

Confucianism was the ﬁrst ofﬁcial religion of Korea;
this was followed by Buddhism. Both of these fell into
disfavour and animism became the popular cult, None of
these religions taught any regard for animals so far as kind-
ness Was concerned, though Buddhism taught abstinence
from meats and forbade the killing of even an insect for
fear of reincarnation. In later years Christianity has
exercised considerable inﬂuence upon the people of Korea,
but very little special teaching has been given in the churches
regarding kindness to animals. 'A Christian magazine, The
Children’s Magazine, publishes many articles, stories and
pictures that teach kindness to animals and the care of
pets. The great majority of the people are uneducated,
and have no religion except a fear of evil spirits, the result
being that often they inﬂict cruelty upon their poor animals
through lack of care or thought. The few Buddhists who
remain are opposed to hunting, regarding it as cruelty
practised for one’s amusement, but even they have no
positive ideas on animal welfare.

For many years it was the practice to sacriﬁce oxen and
other animals before the tombs of forefathers as part
of the rites of ancestor worship. But in recent years laws
have been passed prohibiting such sacriﬁces, and the only
offerings now permitted are of ﬂesh—meat and other foods.

The general attitude of the Korean towards animals is
one of indifference, especially among the uneducated. A.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

86 THE ANIMAL YEAR BOOK

few Of the better informed people are eager to help with the
work of animal welfare, but they are very few, judging by
the rarity Of donations in aid Of this Society’s work.

SPORTS
In some rural districts Of Korea the sport Of setting two
bulls to ﬁght has been followed, but this is now rapidly
declining. There are no other blood—sports involving
animals in Korea. Circus troupes visit Korea about twice
a year and give performances, but these are always under
police inspection. Occasionally a performing bear will be
brought from Manchuria by a Chinese to give exhibitions
in the streets, but this is becoming less frequent every

year.

MARKETS
All animals Oﬁered for sale in public markets are subject

to medical inspection according to the requirements Of
animal hygiene.

F owls are occasionally carried head downwards by an
unthinking person. The regular method is to place them
loose in a large wooden and wire cage which is carried on
the back Of the fowl pedlar, thus keeping the birds in good
condition.

TRANSPORT OF ANIMALS

For long distances the railways are used for transportation.
By their regulations ﬁfteen full-grown cattle or twenty-ﬁve
yOung ones are allowed in one car, with one or two watchmen
in charge Of each car. Twelve to sixteen horses are allowed
per car. Live pigs are placed in crates before being loaded
in covered railway vans. Until recently live pigs were tied
with ropes round all four legs and placed on a hand-cart to
go through the streets, but on the representation Of the
Chosen S.P.C.A. the method Of leaving them loose in large
crates is now followed.

As the cattle of Korea are Of a very meek nature and are
accustomed to being handled daily, no force is used in
placing them on and Off ships ; they almost invariably walk
to and fro. They are never hoisted by the horns.

 

 

 

 




 

 

ANIMALS ABROAD: JAPAN (KOREA) 87

VETERINARY SERVICE

There are a number of veterinary surgeons in practice
throughout the country, many being attached to the central
police staff of each province for inspection duties. The
owners of cattle and horses are mainly farmers, all of whom
belong to agricultural societies with their own veterinary
surgeons. In Seoul there is a grade of small contractors
who own one or two animals each and do not know how to
treat them in illness. To save expense they often try
ignorant methods and remedies, and there is no arrangement
for free treatments save those given by the Chosen S.P.C.A.
This Society gives 3,000 free treatments per year to the
animals of the poor, involving an annual expenditure of
several thousands of yen; this is the main work of the
Society.

ANIMAL EXPERIMENTATION

The use of cultures in the treatment of disease is favoured
in Japanese medical practice, so there is a large and steady
demand for vaccines and sera. Most of such products
used in Korea are manufactured in Japan, though certain
brands from U.S.A. and England are in great favour ; very
little, if any, are produced in Korea for sale. At the Govern-
ment Medical College a considerable quantity of cultures
is prepared for the use of the students, and in this connection
the students themselves conduct a good deal of experi-
mentation. At the Severance Medical Christian College
numbers of rabbits, guinea-pigs and white mice are always
available for this purpose.

There is no licence system. All research work is con-
ducted at the universities and medical colleges in Korea,
private research being unknown here. In medical colleges
under Japanese control a “ memorial service is held each
year for those animals that offered their bodies to our medical
research.” This is a Buddhist custom.

PRESERVATION OF WILD LIFE
Laws prohibiting the capture or killing of rare animals
and birds are strictly administered by the government. In

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

88 THE ANIMAL YEAR BOOK

some cases there is a close time for certain parts of the
year, and in others the protection is complete throughout
the whole of the year.

The only zoo in Korea is at Seoul, under the control of
the Prince Yi Household Department, a government institu-
tion. The animals and birds are very varied and are kept
in excellent condition, well housed and well treated. The
zoo has become celebrated for the birth of many lions,
hippopotami and other large animals.

SOCIETIES

The Chosen Society for the‘Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals is the only organ that exists in Korea for the
purpose of animal welfare; it functions only in Seoul and
Chemulpo.

NOTE—A letter from Mrs. Bonwick recently received
contains the following note : “ The Japanese Secretary of
the Society is a Government vet and very wide awake ; the
Korean inspector is a hard-working man, and between
them, 2f money were available, I think some reform could be
brought about in the method of killing dogs.”

(IO) JERUSALEM
Qy]§.1x REYNOLDS

The following is an extract from the report for 1936 which has kindly
been sent to us by the Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals
in Palestine, Jerusalem Branch.

“ THE S.P.C.A. in Jerusalem has reason to congratulate

itself that in spite of the unhappy disturbances, which
were prolonged through so large a part of the past year, it
is in as sound a position as it is.

“ In several respects the situation has improved since the
last Report. First and foremost, the long vexed question
of a site for a new and larger hospital is at last settled. The
Government has granted us land on the Bethlehem road
where hospital, boarding kennels and dispensary will be
erected.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

‘ at“:

., Ea: mmiat
33?: SilCA, aww,
. g I” m wgiigﬁﬁggf wig?

 

ANIMAL HOSPITAL, JERUSALEM.

To face page 89- 1

 

 

 

 

 

 
 




 

ANIMALS ABROAD: JERUSALEM 89

“ The new Criminal Code, which has now become law,
includes clauses which serve to strengthen our position
and which are a great improvement on the old ordinance.
The Society’s British inspector has been given authority
under this new Criminal Code to exercise all the powers
granted to the police under that Code so far as prevention
of cruelty to animals is concerned. The Society always
avoids being concerned in prosecutions, but powers to
arrest and to detain sick or wounded animals in hospital
have now been given, and in this respect our position is on
a sounder basis than was formerly the case. Even during
the disturbances the hospital was never empty, and for this
much credit is due to the British inspector.

“ Funds have permitted free treatment to be given daily
to animals owned by poor people. The cases have amounted
to 710 in, all, which, Considering the disturbed state of
the country during so much of the year, shows that these
free clinics are appreciated. The Government has extended
a helping hand in granting an annual sum of ,€140 for the
years 1935—36 and 1936—37, and this has been of great
assistance in enabling free treatment to be given to deserving
cases. Considerable improvements have been made in the
hospital itself. The stable is now provided with twelve
stalls and two loose boxes, all of which have been given by
friends.

“ No very great progress can be reported in the educa-
tional scheme owing to the schools being closed for so long
during the disturbances, but St. George’s School has come
forward nobly. There a League of Kindnessis carried
on under Mi“. Bayoud, one of the masters in the school;
thecost of one stall was subscribed by the boys, friends and
members of the League. Several Scouts from other schools
have qualiﬁed for the “ Friend to Animals ” badge. The
Director of Education has approved of instruction in this
direction, and it is hoped that in the coming year considerable
progress will be made.

“ From time to time complaints have been received of the
unnecessary hardship inﬂicted on animals imported into the

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

90 THE ANIMAL YEAR BOOK

country through the port of Haifa. Through the active
co-operation of the Chief Veterinary Ofﬁcer, Major
J. M. Smith, O.B.E., very satisfactory arrangements have
been made for the unloading of sheep and cattle, and not only
for unloading but also for the care and accommodation
of animals when on board ship. Now that matters have
been placed in a satisfactory state it is unnecessary to harrow
the minds of members with details as to what used to take
place at the port in this respect, but we can be thankful that
the sufferings endured by animals being unloaded are now
very largely a thing of the past.

“Another direction in which our energies have been
applied is the endeavour to reduce the casualties and hard—
ships caused by the slippery asphalt surface of Jerusalem’s
hilly streets. Here no progress can be claimed. The
Municipal Engineer has frequently been approached with a
View to the surfaces of the streets being rendered non-
slippery, but there appear to be insuperable difﬁculties in
the way of such a course being adopted. In one respect
some help can be given: through the kindness of the In-
spector General of Police we now have a trace horse (and
hope to acquire others) which will assist the more heavily
laden carts to tackle the steeper hills. It remains to be seen
whether this will be of real assistance, or whether, knowing
that a trace horse is available, the occasion will be seized
by carters still further to overload their carts. We are
always faced with the difﬁculty that our best meant efforts
may be exploited for some base end. The trace horse will
be shod with the non-slipping type of shoe used by the
police, and it is not improbable that in time farriers will
learn to shoe all horses and mules employed in Jerusalem
with this type of shoe.

“ Efforts are also being made to awaken the interest of
the authorities in the question of trapping song-birds. The
annual suffering of linnets and goldﬁnches is one of the
more distressing sights in the Holy Land.”

 

 

 




 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

OXEN IN PORTUGAL.

To face page 91.

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

ANIMALS ABROAD: PORTUGAL 91
(u)PORTUGAL

by S. G. WEST, B.A., King’s College, London

UMAN E treatment of animals is not a matter of great

importance to the educated Portuguese living in the
large cities and towns. The great illiterate, who live in
the villages under conditions of the greatest poverty, are
too preoccupied with their own struggle for existence even
to realise that animals are capable of feeling pain. It is
fortunate, therefore, that the Portuguese are by nature more
kindly disposed towards animals than some of their Latin
neighbours. In an agricultural country such as Portugal
the small farmer knows that his livelihood is largely de-
pendent on his draught animals, and he takes a genuine
pride in the well-being of his oxen, mules and horses.
Ill-treatment of animals in Portugal derives almost wholly
from ignorance and thoughtlessness.

There are two main animal welfare societies with head-
quarters in Lisbon: The Society for the Protection of
Animals, and the National League for the Defence of
Animals. The former was founded in 1875, has a member-
ship of approximately 3,000, co-operates with the R.S.P.C.A.
and is aﬂiliated to the Iberian Federation of Societies for the
Protection of Animals and Plants. It is ofﬁcially recognised
as an institution of public utility, and is provided with two
ﬁscal guards by the police. It possesses a small library of
animal literature and a Museum of Diabolical Instruments.
Its clinic has three veterinary surgeons, treating an average
of 3,000 cases a year; service to the poor is free, while
members are entitled to 50 per cent. discount. This
Society organises a “ Week'of Kindness ” in collaboration
with public bodies, notably the Department of Primary
Education and the Association of Fire Brigades, which are
extremely active in promoting animal welfare throughout
the‘country ; lectures are held, and use is made of the cinema
and radio ; schoolchildren take part in organised parades,
and placards and pamphlets are distributed. The Society’s

7

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

92 ' THE ANIMAL YEAR Bo'oK

organ, 0 Zooﬁlo, is published at irregular intervals (at
least once a year) with a circulation of 5,000 copies, of which
4,000 are distributed free. i
The S.P.A. has sponsored the organisation of Societies
for the Protection of Animals in Oporto, Coimbra, Braga,
Guimaraens and F unchal (Madeira), each of which is
autonomous, although acknowledging allegiance to the
parent body. The branch in Oporto, was founded in 1878
and has a membership of 1,280. It is provided with only
one ﬁscal guard, but receives the co—operation of the city
corporation, the ﬁre brigades and the Portuguese League
of Social Prophylaxis, an enlightened organisation which is
doing‘ much to promote reform in human conduct and
relationship. Its veterinary clinic treats a yearly average of
1,100 cases. The branch in Coimbra was founded in 1912
and has a‘membership of 300. It possesses no clinic, but
a veterinary surgeon from the University hospital devotes
one day in four to private visiting on behalf of the Society.
The other society, The National League for the Defence of
Animals, was founded in 1923 and has 1,300 members,
including the Commandant of Police. It has no branches,
but has delegates or corresponding members in many
towns ; their activities, however, would appear to be
negligible, except at Coimbra. Much good work is being
done at the Lisbon centre, the extreme efficiency of which
is due to the untiring devotion of Senhor Jaime Balsemao.
The activities of the League are similar to those of the S.P.A.,

‘ but its veterinary clinic is always open, night and day, and

two trained nurses are continually in attendance. It
possesses quarantine quarters, boards dogs and cats, and
arranges suitable homes for‘unwanted animals. It organises
“ Bands of Mercy ” in the schools, promotes parades of
draught horses, arranges public lectures and enjoys the
sympathy of the military. The League’s annual income is
approximately J£220, and'it is in urgent need of J[,600 to

'meet current expenses and to provide for development.

Cruelty is most frequent among pack and draught animals
employed in the towns, the majority of which are built on

 




 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

THE MILKMAN’S ROUND. (PORTUGAL)

To face page 93.]

 




 

 

ANIMALS ABROAD! PORTUGAL 93

extremely steep hills. Broken knees and bulging eyes are
common sights, and the majority of actions brought by the
S.P.A. and L.N.D.A. deal with overloading, neglect to use
the shaft-strut when loading or discharging, failure to _
distribute the weight properly, overworking, kicking, beating
and the employment of animals in an emaciated, sick or
galled condition. The laws which prohibit these offences
impose a small ﬁne for the ﬁrst offence, with imprisonment
ranging from ﬁve to forty days for subsequent offences,
though this is seldom enforced. There are many drinking-
fountains in Lisbon and Oporto set up by the S.P.A.
Draught oxen may not be used in Lisbon, and the city
corporation has tabulated a measure to exclude animal-
traction from the capital entirely.

There is little or no trapping, wolves, hares and rabbits
being shot. There is a close season for game birds, but
many small birds are killed by catapult for food. Others
are caught, blinded and sold as songsters. Goldﬁnches are
sold in Lisbon, although protected by the International
Convention of Paris, to the resolutions of which Portugal
gave her adherence. I have seen boys catching sparrows
with poisoned ants in the principal boulevard of the capital.
Several outbreaks of rabies have occurred, and dogs must
be muzzled when not on a lead. Poison is used in the
destruction of strays. Three thousand cats are annually
destroyed by the civic authorities in Lisbon alone. The
treatment of chickens and domestic animals in the
market leaves much to be desired. Transportation arrange-
ments are unsatisfactory, and crates of fowls frequently
arrive with a large percentage of the birds dead from over-
crowding or lack of water. Cattle, imported for butchery
from Angola and the Azores, are landed by the horns.

Slaughtering of animals for food is done under veterinary
and sanitary inspection. Various methods are practised.
Preliminary stunning of cattle is carried out in Lisbon and
Oporto, but is not always observed in rural slaughter-houses,
where calves may be suspended from a shackle by one leg,
and pigs allowed to bleed for twenty minutes before being

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

94 THE ANIMAL YEAR BOOK

killed. The municipal abattoirs of Oporto and Lisbon have
installed electrically operated killers for pigs (one made in
France, the other in Portugal). Lisbon is at present con-
structing, at a cost of J€16,000, a model abattoir, in which a
number of improvements will be introduced.

The Church is unhelpful, and the Press generally in-
different, although some sympathetic articles have appeared
in~ O Seculo. The leading dailies have published topical
cartoons ridiculing the SPA. ever since their vigorous
campaign against the introduction of the Spanish type of
bullﬁght brought them well into public notice.

The Portuguese type of bullﬁght differs widely from the
Spanish, and is chieﬂy an exhibition of equestrianism and
human agility. The bull is not killed, but may be sent into
the arena as many as twenty times. Its horns are cased in
leather sheaths in order not to injure the horses, which are
trained to their task and kept in the best of condition. The
matador endeavours to plunge a number of darts, shod with
a barb between 3 and 4 centimetres long, into the back of
the neck. After the bull has been “ played ” for some time
and seven 0r eight darts have been “ broken,” he is brought
to earth by force of numbers and then herded out of the
ring. Although special trains are run in season from
Lisbon to Badajoz for the beneﬁt of patrons of the Spanish
type of bullﬁght, the Portuguese in general regard it as
retrograde, and attempts to introduce it into Portugal a
few years ago met with national opposition. The present
Government has wisely forbidden absolutely the practice
of the Spanish bullﬁght anywhere in the country, but it is
to be feared that infringements of the law occasionally occur
on the large estates where private corridas are held. Of
recent years the Portuguese season, which runs from April
to October, has dwindled, and many bull-rings lie unused
all the year round. An increasing enthusiasm for athletic
sports undoubtedly helps to account for the decline of
interest in bullﬁghting, and it may be that this is the sign
of an awakening humanitarianism in the new Portugal which

is emerging.

 




 

SOME CURRENT PROBLEMS

(1) THE CAMPAIGN AGAINST THE GIN
TRAP IN GREAT BRITAIN

by C. W. HUME, M.C., B.Sc.

REVIEW OF THE PRESENT SITUATION

N the defeat of the Gin Traps (Prohibition) Bill in

IWay, 1935, ULAWS proceeded to arrange at the
earliest practicable date fOr the appointment of a Select
Committee of the House of Lords to consider the problem.
The object of this procedure was to ﬁnd out how much
progress was possible in the House of Lords, given the fullest
available facilities for presenting the facts before that House.
The Select Committee on Agriculture (Damage by Rabbits),
with terms of reference drafted by ULAWS, was appointed,
on the motion of Lord Merthyr in 1936. Its report was
published in March, 1937, and although the report had a
somewhat bad press and contains statements which ULAWS
will be compelled to controvert in due course, it also
contains some positive recommendations. In any event,
the fact has to be faced that it will now be impossible
to obtain a second reading of the Gin Traps (Prohibition)
Bill in the House of Lords in the immediate future. An
erroneous impression exists to the effect that if the Bill
could be passed in the House of Commons three times it
would become law by the Parliament Act, 1911, but in fact
the Parliament Act applies to public bills only. In the
House of Commons, on the other hand, the obstacle to be
faced is not opposition to the principle of the Bill but lack
of parliamentary time. In order that a private bill may
have even a small chance of receiving a second reading it
must Win one of the ﬁrst twelve places in the private
members’ ballot.

95

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

96 , THE ANIMAL YEAR BOOK

Against these discouraging features of the present
situation must be set the extremely encouraging fact that
important public bodies have supported the Bill with
increasing enthusiasm. On March 3 about 600 representa-
tive Conservatives, at a meeting of the Women’s Advisory
Committee for the Wessex area of the National Union of
Conservative and Unionist Associations, gave a prominent
- place to a motion calling for abolition of the gin trap, and
passed it unanimously and with enthusiasm. Again, at
the annual meeting in 1936 of the National Federation of
Women’s Institutes, at which nearly 7,000 representative
women from all parts of the countryside Were present, a
similar resolution was passed almost unanimously. Further,
the sporting press is becoming increasingly sympathetic to
our cause. On March 20, 1937, the Field published a
strong article criticising the negative ﬁndings of the Select
Committee and voicing views substantially in line with the
recommendations of ULAWS. Horse and Hound has
‘always been strongly sympathetic. Of the trade papers,
the Shooting Times and Game-keeper are still hostile, but
the Hardware Trade journal continues its stalwart support
of our cause. The daily press is in general strongly on our
side.

To take a pessimistic View would be to misunderstand
the position entirely. The report of the Select Committee
contained certain positive recommendations; moreover,
ULAWS is putting forward some new: proposals which
were not considered by the Select Committee, are free
from the objections raised against the Gin Traps (Prohibi-
tion) Bill, and, if carried into effect, may prove to be even
more effective in some respects than that bill would have
been. Our proposals for future action are therefore as
follows. Phase I: Enactment of the recommendations
of the Select Committee on Agriculture (Damage by
Rabbits). Phase 2: Enactment of further proposals put
forward by ULAWS. Phase 3: Reintroduction of the
Gin Traps (Prohibition) Bill.

 




 

SOME CURRENT PROBLEMS 9'7

PHASE ‘1: RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE
SELECT COMMITTEE ON AGRICULTURE
(DAMAGE BY RABBITS)

The principal recommendations of the Committee are
as follows.

(1) County Councils should be empowered, “ on being
satisﬁed after fair and impartial inquiry that an owner or
occupier Of land has allowed rabbits so to multiply as to
cause injury to adjoining property, to order the destruction
of the rabbits or the adoption of such precautions as will
prevent their causing damage.” Legislation giving effect
to this recommendation would probably become a dead
letter if the onus of making complaints were to be thrown
upon private individuals. Only in exceptional Circum—
stances would a private person be prepared to arouse ill-
feeling by invoking the aid of the County Council. It is,
therefore, essential that a public official should be charged
with the duty of initiating action of the kind under con-
sideration.

(2) “ That neighbouring owners or occupiers should be
empowered to Claim compensation from an Offender.”
While this provision would be liable to become a dead
letter, for the reasons mentioned in the preceding para-
graph, it might nevertheless be useful as strengthening the
hands of any person who wished to make a friendly complaint
to his neighbour. An implicit threat might have the desired
effect without actually provoking a quarrel. _

(3) “ That County Councils should be enabled to provide
trained men with the necessary tackle for the destruction of
rabbits.” A similar recommendation was contained in the
ULAWS memorandum and would have great advantages
inasmuch as (i) farmers are often reluctant to adopt cyanide
fumigation because they are not familiar with the method,
and (ii) it is desirable that fumigation should be carried
out by experts, for the sake of efﬁciency if not of safety.
It is doubtful whether at the present time County Councils
are acting infra wires when they spend public funds on
rabbit—control, and it is clearly desirable that they should

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

98 THE ANIMAL YEAR BOOK

be speciﬁcally empowered to do this. At the same time
their servants should be precluded from using gin traps for the
purpose, in view of the fact that among those who pay
county rates are a large number, probably a large majority,
of persons who object to this instrument on grounds of
conscience.

(4) “That gin traps should in no circumstances be set
in the open.” There is general agreement that this enact-
ment is extremely desirable, but it will be an empty gesture
unless adequate means are provided for enforcing it. The
existing law prohibits tenants from setting traps for rabbits
in the open, requires daily inspection of traps, and forbids
the use of pole traps for birds ; but these things are freely
done whenever they are found to be convenient. It is,
therefore, indispensable to provide (i) heavy penalties for
infraction of such a law, and (ii) adequate powers for the
inspection of property for the purpose of ﬁnding out
whether the law is being broken.

(5) The employment of gas for the destruction of rabbits
“ should be legalized beyond doubt.” Section 8 (b) of the
Protection of Animals Act, 1911, provides that no person
“ shall knowingly put or place, or cause or procure any
person to put or place, or knowingly be a party to the
putting or placing, in or upon any land or building any
poison, or any ﬂuid or edible matter (not being sown seed or
grain) which has been rendered poisonous,” provided that
in any proceedings under this paragraph “it shall be a
defence that the poison was placed by the accused for the
purpose of destroying rats, mice, or other small vermin,
and that he took all reasonable precautions to prevent
access thereto of dogs, cats, fowls or other domestic animals.”
It seems rather far-fetched to suggest that this section is
infringed by the blowing of cyanide dust into a rabbit
burrow which is thereafter sealed, but good will be done
by putting an end to any doubt which may exist.

(6) “ That the Ministry of Agriculture should at once
make technical inquiries in order to ﬁnd a less cruel type
of trap than those now in use and that, when satisfied

 




 

SOME CURRENT PROBLEMS 99

that they have found one, the Use of all other types should
be prohibited.” A great deal of superstition exists as to
the manner in which inventions are made, superstition
born of legends such as that of Watt and the kettle. Practi-
cable inventions almost invariably arise in one or other
of the following ways, except in the case of a very small
number of master inventions of far-reaching importance
(like the internal-combustion engine), one would be unduly
optimistic to look for anything of the latter kind in a ﬁeld
of invention that has been so fully worked over as that of
trapping. Normally, either (i) a new scientiﬁc discovery
is seized upon by numerous inventors and applied to all
problems to which it is applicable (for instance, the possible
applications of the discovery of the thermionic current are
still being worked out in connection with wireless signalling,
television and the like); or (ii) a new problem or new
demand arises, and inventors systematically apply to its
solution the known principles of the appropriate art (an,
instance is aﬁorded by the demand for trafﬁc—control lights).

In either case, the same invention is repeatedly invented
by a plurality of different inventors working independently,
and the ﬁeld which has been opened up by the new discovery
or the new demand eventually becomes fully explored, so
that the wave of invention dies out. In the case of traps
the whole ﬁeld has been so fully worked over that any hope
of a new type of trap being invented must be regarded as
chimerical and originating from ignorance of the history of
inventions. ’

Nevertheless, certain types of humane trap which will
catch rabbits do exist and, according to the normal course
of invention, details of their design could probably be
improved by means of systematic research. It is very
desirable that such research should be carried out, and it is
not inconceivable, though improbable, that a trap capable
of catching rabbits for sale as proﬁtably as the gin trap
might be evolved. Action could be taken by the Ministry
of Agriculture through administrative channels without
further legislation being necessary.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

100 THE ANIMAL YEAR BOOK

The report of the Select Committee mentions a trap with
rubber jaws. Such traps have frequently been invented
in the past, but it is well known to trappers that what
breaks the animal’s leg is not the blow of the jaws but the
act of struggling. ‘

(7) The Select Committee also recommends “that the
person who keeps a warren for the express purpose of rabbit-
farming for sale should be made liable to fence it.” This
recommendation is of little value in the absence of some
practical criterion for ascertaining the mental intention of
the person concerned.

PHASE 2. NEW PROPOSALS BY ULAWS

After the enactment of the foregoing recommendations,
whether by means of a public bill or otherwise, ULAWS
proposes to proceed with a Gin Traps (Regulation) Bill
containing the following enactments.

(I) The sale and purchase of rabbits which have been
mutilated by trap or snare, or have been so prepared as to
conceal such mutilation, should be prohibited. Gunshot
wounds should not be deemed to constitute mutilation.
This enactment would be free from nearly all the objections
that have been urged against the Gin Traps (Prohibition)
Bill. It would not prevent the use of gin traps in actual
or supposed self-defence for destroying either rabbits or
vermin, and at the same time it would discourage the rabbit-
trapping industry, which has done so much harm to agri-
culture. The proposal has the great advantage that it will
force the friends of the gin trap to ﬁght upon the ground
that they desire to torture animals for proﬁt, and not upon
the more popular but somewhat rhetorical grounds which
they have hitherto put forward. At the same time if
carried into effect it will diminish the total number of
animals trapped in this country to an enormous extent.

(2) It is well known that a 5-inch gin trap will often
kill a small animal, such as a rat or a weasel, whereas the
small gins specially sold for these creatures merely torture
the leg. To prohibit the sale of any gin trap smaller than
the 5-inch would therefore be a deﬁnite gain.

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

SOME CURRENT PROBLEMS 101

(3) The penalty for failing to inspect traps should be
increased.

PHASE 3: REINTRODUCTION OF THE GIN
TRAPS (PROHIBITION) BILL
. In view of the adverse recommendation of the Select
Committee, a considerable amount of work will have to be
done, and possibly even a Select Committee may have to
sit again, before this bill can have a good prospect in the
House of Lords. Nevertheless, public opinion is pro-
gressing at such a rapid rate, and changes of opinion have
so frequently occurred in connection with past reforms,
that the hope of seeing the Bill pass into law within a
moderate number of years is by no means an impossible one.
ULAWS has appointed a well-qualiﬁed " Honorary
Parliamentary Secretary, and is affiliated to the Parlia-
mentary Science Committee. Further, research is being
carried out on certain aspects of the trap problem which
may enable an even stronger case to be presented in the
future than in the past. Finally, the adverse report of the
Select Committee has provoked a reaction favourable to
our cause, and ULAWS, together with the S.S.P.C.A.,
R.S.P.C.A., N .C.A.W. and the many other bodies associated
with it, has every reason to take an optimistic view of the
situation. On the other hand, the amount of cruelty
inﬂicted by the gin trap is so great that every day which
passes before its abolition IS a day to be regretted.

(2) OPERATIONS WITHOUT ANZES'I‘l-IETICS:
A POSSIBLE USE FOR X RAYS

by W. M. LEVITT, MD.

MON G surgical operations which are ordinarily carried
out without anwsthetics the commonest is the neuter-
ing of male cattle, sheep and pigs. (Ovariotomy of sows
is practised to a limited extent and in certain localities
only; it is, however, a substantially more serious

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

102 THE ANIMAL YEAR BOOK

operation than castration.) The males of the animals
referred to are castrated, unless required for breeding
purposes, in the ordinary course of agricultural routine. '

The objects of the operation are (I) to produce sterility ;
(2) to keep the animals quiet by elimination of the mating
instinct; (3) to prevent meat from becoming rank; and
(4) to promote growth and the formation of fat. The
operation is performed without anaesthetics; anaesthetics
would be expensive and their use would present various
practical difﬁculties. The extent to which castration. is
painful depends on the skill with which it is performed,
and on the animal operated upon. An experienced
veterinary surgeon can castrate a calf in less than a minute,
and the animals do not usually show much subsequent
discomfort; hogs present somewhat greater diﬂiculty.
Generally speaking, experienced operators are inclined to
make light of the operation, but it is possible that familiarity
with it may have unduly inﬂuenced their judgment. In
any case the less valuable animals are usually castrated by
farm hands or shepherds, who may or may not be expert.
A painless method of castration is certainly a thing to be
desired. Considerable advantages are claimed for the
Burdizzo castrator in the case of cattle, horses and sheep,
but the purpose of the present article is to suggest an
entirely different direction in which progress might con-
ceivably be made, namely the use of X rays. It is impossible
to predict at present how far this method may prove to be
feasible, but the following notes are intended to give a
preliminary view of the problem.

It is known that irradiation with X rays can induce
sterility in human beings and other animals. It is not
known whether the other consequences numbered (2),
(3) and (4) above follow, but it is believed that they may do so.
To determine the question a somewhat extensive research
would be necessary. Dosage with X rays is measured as
the product of intensity and time of application, the intensity
being measured by an ionization method. However, the
biological effect depends not only on the dose as thus

 

 




 

 

SOME CURRENT PROBLEMS 103

measured but also on the wave-length. For a given wave-
length the dose may be quoted as a percentage of the
minimum dose which produces a speciﬁed effect upon the
skin, such as epilation. (In human beings an erythema or
reddening is taken as the standard.) With human beings
the dose necessary to produce permanent sterility is very
nearly the full erythema dose. The technical difﬁculties
and dangers in administering such a treatment are very
considerable; temporary sterility can, however, be in-
duced by a dose only 30 per cent. as great as that required
for permanent sterility. In View of the fact that pigs are
normally slaughtered at an age of one year or less, temporary
sterility might suﬂice, and this circumstance would greatly
simplify the problem. '

The ﬁrst step in any research would be to ﬁnd out whether
all the desired effects can be produced in pigs by X rays,
and if so what dosage is required. The next step would be
to design safe apparatus. The danger is not incurred by
casual bystanders but by the regular operator, who would
sustain serious damage if exposed day after day to re-
radiation from the animals treated. Applicators shielded
with lead could probably be devised to meet the requirement
of safety.

The animal would need to be held stationary. A
Schermer pig—trap, modiﬁed if necessary, would presumably
do all that is required in this direction in the case of pigs.

In the next place portability would have to be considered.
In View of the high voltages used, a highly specialized
equipment mounted on a lorry would be required. In the
event of a satisfactory design being evolved, it would not
be practicable to make the service pay for itself, since
farmers at present get the work done at little or no cost.
The cost would have to be borne by a public authority or
by private beneﬁcence. It would comprise the capital
cost and depreciation of the apparatus, and the wages of a
trained operator, who might also drive the lorry.

Problems of organization also would arise. The number
of pigs castrated per annum in Great Britain is roughly

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

104. THE ANIMAL YEAR BOOK

about 2,000,000, and the number handled at one time
ranges from I to 50 in a herd of moderate size. It will be
seen, therefore, that the practical diﬂiculties are considerable,
and their solution will doubtless demand much ingenuity
and perseverance.

(3) COCK-FIGHTING IN THE PAS DE CALAIS
by C. W. HUME, M.C., B.Sc.

N View of the publicity given recently in the press to

the practice of cock—ﬁghting, readers of the Year Book
may wish to know what the practice is and how it is
carried on. .

In France cock—ﬁghting is the universal sport of the
miners in the north. It is illegal under the loi Grammont,
but the Prefect of the Department has power to prevent
enforcement of the law, and this power is exercised wherever
cock-ﬁghting is the established sport of the people. A good.
many Frenchmen do not like it and do not attend the ﬁghts,
but there are few indeed who have the temerity to express
disapproval in public.

The cocks belong to a special breed of ﬁghting birds.
They are specially fed and cared for, and (such is the
inconsistency of human nature) are regarded with affection
by their owners. Those which survive the ﬁght are bandaged
and nursed back to health. Enthusiasm for the sport is not
due to want of affection for the animals; it is due to a
deep-seated and dangerous instinct which, in a more
advanced form, gave rise to gladiatorial shows.

The match is usually held at a hall attached to a cabaret,
and there is a good sale of alcoholic liquors. Sometimes a
band is provided. Each cock is entered in the name of a
club, such as “ les Anciens Combattants de Molinghem,”
or “ Ech’ PocheuX ed’ Brias,” or“ la Boucherie de Calonne.”
A sum is paid into the pool in respect of each bird, and
prizes are drawn according to the results, leaving a sub-
stantial proﬁt for the promoters. For instance, at a tourney

 




 

 

SOME CURRENT PROBLEMS 105

arranged recently by the Bureau de Bienfaisance of Auchel
in order to raise 22,800 francs in aid of large families, a prize
of 650 francs was awarded to each club with one winning
cock, 1,000 francs for two winners, and 1,500 francs for
three winners. There were three series of ﬁghts, and each
club entered one cock in each series. Sometimes, on the
other hand, a match will be arranged between two clubs,
and it was one of these that the writer attended at Wingles
on one occasion.

The match was between Wingles and Landas. The
Wingles supporters sat together in one group, the Landas
supporters in another: As soon as a round was thrown
open for side—bets, every man rose in his seat and waved a
ﬁfty-franc note, or any other sum he pleased, towards the
opposite group, shouting “ Cinquante francs Landas,
cinquante francs Landas,” or “ Cinquante francs Wingles ”
as the case might be. The bets were arranged by signs .
across the saloon, and meanwhile a pair of birds, which
had been carried in covered with cloth bags, were being
ﬁtted by the ofﬁcial armateurs with sharp steel spurs.
In the centre of the saloon was a square enclosure called
the parc, with walls of wire-netting raised above shoulder-
level on a platform. Attendants entered the parc holding
the birds in their arms, and allowed them to have a pre-
liminary peck at one another. They then left the pare and
closed the gate, and the jury, consisting of two time-
keepers and two referees, took control of the ﬁght. The
birds ﬁght with beak and spur, and are extremely ﬁerce
and tenacious. Sometimes one will have its leg broken
at an early stage and the ﬁght may then be over in a minute
or two. Occasionally a full tWelve minutes will elapse
without a Victory, and the round is then declared drawn.
After some preliminary sparring, one cock will get the
other down; if tired, he may simply sit on his fallen
adversary, but if fresh he will peck and kick the latter
viciously, inﬂicting severe wounds. Usually after a
brief rest the fallen cock will. jump to his feet again and may
continue the ﬁght as vigorously as before. When a cock

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

106 THE ANIMAL YEAR BOOK

has been down-for one minute a blue lamp is lighted ; after
two minutes a red lamp is lighted, and after three minutes
a bell is rung ; the fallen cock has then been counted out.

It is important that an amusement of this kind should be
stamped out wherever it attempts to establish itself. The
objection to it arises in part from its cruelty (though the
birds ﬁght voluntarily and the suffering inﬂicted is far less
than that involved in many commercial practices), but
mainly from the fact that it cultivates a morbid craving of a
type which grows very rapidly and which, if not checked,
leads on to such spectacles as the Spanish bull ﬁght.
Unremitting vigilance is needed to prevent the spread of
such tastes and such practices.

(4) PREPARATION OF VACCINE LYMPH
by F. JEAN VINTER, M.D., B.S.

URIN G a visit to Algiers in 193' 5 I visited the Pasteur

Institute and found that a change had recently been
made there in the method of preparing vaccineplymph.
Vaccine lymph is obtained by inoculating calves with in-
fective material and, after a period of incubation, collecting
the contents of the vesicles which develop on the animals’
abdomens. The change made in Algiers consisted in
killing the calf at the end of the incubation period and thus
collecting the lymph from the dead instead of from the
living animal.

On returning to England I made inquiries as to the
methods used in the production of vaccine lymph in
England and found that the Lister Institute and the Evans
Biological Institute kill the calf before extracting the lymph,
whereas the Government Lymph Establishment and the
Jenner Institute did not do so. As a representative of
ULAWS, I was subsequently granted an interview at the
Ministry of Health ; the President of ULAWS also wrote
to the Ministry asking for a reconsideration of the wording
of that part of the Therapeutic Substances Act which

 




 

SOME CURRENT PROBLEMS 107

refers to the preparation of vaccine lymph. - The relevant
paragraph at present reads as follows :

“When the vaccine lymph has been collected, the
animal if not previously killed shall be killed, and a
thorough post—mortem examination of the carcase shall
be made by a qualiﬁed expert. . . .”

A letter was afterwards received from an ofﬁcial of the
Ministry ; the following is an extract 1— ‘

“ The Department was impressed by the fact that \‘
our procedure did cause concern to reasonable people,
and immediately steps were taken to secure reconsidera-
tion of the whole matter. I am glad to inform you that
as a result, and so far as our own establishment is con-
cerned, the practice of slaughter immediately before re-
moval of the lymph was introduced about three months ago .
. “ There remains the larger question of making this
a general requirement, about which your President wrote
to the Ministry in August. This has been noted for
consideration when the regulations are being amended.”

(5) ELECTROCUTION OF CATS AND DOGS
by C. W. HUME, M.C., B.Sc.

PPARATUS for the electrocution of cats and dogs is
Acoming into general use, and since deﬁnite data are now
available as to the conditions under which it can be humane
and those under which it can inﬂict a short period of
severe suffering, it is desirable to record those data here.

The apparatus used for electrocuting small animals
differs radically from that used in America for electrocuting
condemned personsi’“ Still further does it diﬂer from that

 

5“ The experiments referred to in this article were carried out in
America. The rats used by Conrad and Haggard (6) were not under an
anaesthetic during the shock ; no reason for this grave omission is given.
As regards the rats used by Kouwvenhoven and Langworthy (2) it is
stated that these animals were given ether “ until they were quiet,”
and it is not clear whether the anaesthesia was complete. All the other
animals appear to have been fully anaesthetized ; Ferris and co-workers
chieﬂy used the excellent anwsthetic nembutal.

8

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

108 THE ANIMAL YEAR BOOK

used in the slaughter-house in the hope of anaesthetising pigs.
It is arranged as follows: Alternating voltage from the
mains is applied to the primary windings of a transformer.
At the terminals of the secondary winding there is con-
sequently obtained a much increased voltage ; thus if the
transformation ratio is IO and if the voltage of the mains is
200, a pressure of 2,000 volts on open circuit (i.e. when no
current is ﬂowing) will be obtained from the secondary
winding. The available voltage is reduced, however, so
long as the current ﬂows through the animal. If the trans-
former contains a ballast resistance greater than the resis—
tance of the animal, only a fraction of the 2,000 volts will
be found on the electrodes for application to the body
during the actual electrocution.

The animal is usually connected in the secondary circuit
by means of a metal collar at the neck and a metal shackle on
one hind leg. When the current is switched on (which
occurs in one type of apparatus on closure of the cover of a
cabinet containing the animal) it passes longitudinally
through the body, the path including the heart. If the

. collar were put over dry hair at the neck of the animal,

practically no Current would ﬂow ; it is therefore usual to
moisten the neck with saline solution. If the animal were
to lie on a moist ﬂoor, part of the current would leak
through the moisture instead of through the animal ;
precautions have to be taken against such an occurrence.

An electric shock can kill in the following four ways
among others: (I) by asphyxiation due to disablement of
the respiratory centre by a current passing through the
brain ; (2) by asphyxiation due to spasm of the muscles of
the body ; (3) by nervous shock due to excessive stimulation
of the afferent nerves ; and (4) by stoppage of the circulation
as the result of a current of sufﬁcient strength passing
through the heart.

Only the fourth of these processes can be humane. If
the current passing through the heart is not sufﬁciently
strong the animal will for a time suffer severely, although it
will be unable to scream or movie on account of the condition

 




 

SOME CURRENT PROBLEMS 109

of spasm into which it is thrown. It is therefore vitally
important that a reliable ammeter of suitable range, con-
nected in series with the animal, should be ﬁtted to every
electrocution apparatus, that precautions should be taken
against leakage in shunt. to the animal and that the reading
of the ammeter should be regularly observed. The ammeter
must be in the secondary circuit ; if it were in the primary
circuit its readings would be misleadingly high.

When the current passing through the heart is strong
enough to produce ﬁbrillation the circulation of the blood
fails, and unconsciousness ensues at once as a result of
failure of the blood supply to the brain. In the larger
animals, from the dog upwards, ﬁbrillation persists when
once it has been induced; but smaller animals, such as
cats, rats and rabbits, may recover from ﬁbrillation when
the stimulus has been removed (7). A brief, heavy shock
(of 6 or 7 amperes if applied transversely (5)) will stop
the ﬁbrillation and stop the heart’s action altogether ; but
the heart after such a shock usually begins to beat again
spontaneously after an interval, which may be as long as a
minute.

Our object must therefore be to ensure that electrocution
apparatus shall be so designed as to produce ﬁbrillation in
the case of every animal. This cannot be assured by
providing any particular voltage, for the current depends
on the impedance in circuit as well as on the voltage. The
impedance comprises principally the resistance at the
points of contact between the electrodes and the body of
the animal, the electrodes being, usually a collar at the
neck and a shackle on the leg. This resistance is extremely
uncertain and variable ; it may be practically inﬁnite if the
hair is not wetted with saline solution, and in any case it
depends on the tightness of the collar and the shackle.
Variation of the current is sometimes minimized by pro-
viding a large ballast resistance in either the primary or the
secondary circuit of the transformer, and by stepping up
the voltage to allow for the addition. It is, of course, im-
portant that such apparatus should not be used on mains

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

110 THE ANIMAL YEAR BOOK

carrying a lower voltage than that for which the apparatus
was designed.

The fulﬁlment of the requisite conditions can be readily
tested by including an ammeter in the construction of the
apparatus and observing its reading for every animal
killed. We have now to consider what that reading should
be. It has been found by Kouwvenhoven and others (3)
that when an electric current is passed from the head to the
hind legs of a dog, about 9 or IO per cent. of the current
passes through the heart. The proportion falls to 3 per
cent. when the path of the current is from foreleg to fore-
leg, and to practically zero when the path is from hind leg
to hind leg. The same investigators studied the minimum
strength of the current which must be passed through the
heart of a dog in order to cause ﬁbrillation, and found that
in the case of the animals investigated by them it was never
less than 9 milliamperes or greater than I 5 milliamperes.
In the case of these particular animals, therefore, the total
current passing from head to hind quarters had to be not
less than 90 milliamperes in the most favourable case and
not less than I 50 milliamperes in the least favourable.

Ferris and others (7) have, however, carried out a more
extensive investigation, which somewhat extends the range
of current strength. The table on p. III gives the strength
of alternating current, having a frequency of 60 cycles
per second, which could produce ﬁbrillation when applied
to various animals for 3 seconds, the currents passing
from the right foreleg to the left hind leg.

The last three columns will be eXplained by the following
example. The heart of one of the dogs sometimes ﬁbrillated
with a current as low as 59 milliamperes, but sometimes
required as much as 70 milliamperes before it would.
ﬁbrillate. The maximum non-ﬁbrillating current for this
dog was 59 milliamperes, and its average for ten dogs was
92 milliamperes. The minimum ﬁbrillating current for
the same dog was 70 milliamperes, its average for ten
dogs was 110, and the ten ﬁgures included in this average
ranged from 70 to 220.

 




 

SOME CURRENT PROBLEMS I I I

THRESHOLD OO-CYCLE ALTERNATING CURRENTS CAUSING VENTRICULAR

FIBRILLATION WHEN FLOWING FOR 3 SECONDS FROM RIGHT FORELEG
TO LEFT HIND LEG.

 

 

 

- - Minimum Average
Number Welght Welght ﬁbrillating maximum
Species of b0 0 current (mA.) non-ﬁbrillat-
- ody heart -
anlmals (k ) (k ) mg current
g. g. Average range (mA.).
Guinea pig 10 0-55 1-8 28 18—45 20
Rabbit . 1 0 2-2 6-0 30 I 9—44 25
Cat. . 10 2-9 15-0 29 19—39 23
Small dog* 10 22-0 170-0 110 70—220 92
Pig . . 9 79-0 300-0 240 170—270 200
Sheep . 25 56-0 270-0 250 I 60—390 240
Calf . I 0 70-0 420-0 3 I 0 2 10—470 270

 

 

 

 

 

 

Now in human beings a 60-cycle current can just be felt
if it measures I milliampere. At 15 milliamperes it pro-
duces a spasm which prevents the hand from releasing the
electrodes, and above about‘2o milliamperes it becomes
intolerably painful. Even if we assume that the corre-
Sponding ﬁgures are equally high for small dogs, we see that
there is a wide range of current (from 20 up to 220 milli-
amperes) for which those animals will be subjected to
unbearable pain and be unable to scream, while death may
not ensue for some time. Conrad and Haggard (6) have
measured the relation between the time of application and
the strength of the current required to produce ﬁbrillation
in the case of rats. The effect depends upon the product of
these two quantities, so that if a moderate current is applied
for a long time it will eventually kill the animal, but mean-
while the latter will have been in a state of acute torture.

The above measurements apply to alternating current

 

* The largest of the dogs tested weighed 26 kg. or 57 1b. The current
required depends on the size (mainly on the cross section) of the animal,
and hence the ﬁgures given cannot be safely applied to large dogs such
as Newfoundlands or great Danes. They may safely be used for terriers
0r dachshunds. Bull dogs would be on the borderline. In emergency,
a sufﬁcient factor of safety would probably be allowed by assuming that
the current needed is proportional to the weight of the animal.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

112 THE ANIMAL YEAR BOOK

having a frequency of 60 cycles per second. It has been
found (6), however, that there is not much difference
between the effects of a 6o-eycle and a 5o—cycle current.
Most supplies in Britain have the latter frequency, and all
will eventually do so.

We conclude, therefore, that electrocution may be pre-
ceeded by suffering so severe that it can only be described
as torture if the apparatus is not properly designed, or if it
is used on mains other than those for which it was intended.

We conclude, on the other hand, that electrocution is
perfectly humane if an ammetcr, taking the full current
which passes through the animal from forequarters to hind-
quarters, reads not less than 2 5o milliamperes in the case of
a small dog, and not less than 50 milliamperes in the case
of a cat. The 'ammeter must be calibrated against a
standard instrument in order to ensure that its readings are
reliable.

BIBLIOGRAPHY

1. KOUWVENHOVEN & LANGWORTHY. Electrical Engineering,
Vol. 49. 1930. p.25.

 

2. ————— Electrical Engineering, Vol. 50. 1931. p. 406.

3. KOUWVENHOVEN, HOOKER & LANGWORTHY. Electrical En-
gineering, Vol. 51. 1932. p. 242.

4. Electrical Engineering, Vol. 51. 1932. p. 692.

5. KOUWVENHOVEN 8c HOOKER. Electrical Engineering, Vol. 52.
I933° P- 475- _ . ,

6. CONRAD 8: HAGGARD. Electrical Engineering, Vol. 53.
I934- P- 399- i

7. F ERRIS, KING, SPENCE & WILLIAMS. Electrical Engineering,
Vol. 55. 1936. . p. 498.

(6) ON KEEPING MONKEYS
by R. GLAVE SAUNDERS, M.R.C.V.S., F.Z.S.

HE importation of monkeys into this country for the
purpose of sale as pets would appear to be on the
increase. Recently one of the large London stores was
advertising 300 for sale, and many Christmas bazaars up

 

 




 

 

SOME CURRENT PROBLEMS 113

and down the country contained one or two kept under
most unhealthy conditions, with a complete absence of
daylight in an overheated, germ-laden atmosphere. Prac-
tically all monkeys come from countries with a tropical or
semi-tropical climate, and the changed climatic conditions
in this island usually play havoc with their health. The two
commonest kinds seen in captivity are the rhesus monkeys
from India, undoubtedly the hardiest species, and the
capuchin monkeys from Brazil, which are much more
delicate but tamer. Other varieties are white—eyelid
monkeys (mangabeys) from Africa, marmosets from
Central and South America, squirrel monkeys from the
Amazon, patas or red monkeys from Africa, lemurs from
Madagascar, etc. i

Until the London Zoological Society built the present
Monkey House, the death-rate among the monkeys in
Regent’s Park was very high. The old Monkey House
had always been unhealthy; it had been built when the
health of wild animals in captivity had not been studied.
The present house was built at a cost of ;£60,000, and if
anyone wishes to know how monkeys should be kept in this
climate with any chance of surviving, this building should
be inspected. It has a white—tiled interior essential for
cleanliness, ultra-violet lamps to replace the sunshine at
all times of the year, vita-glass to admit the ultra-violet
rays which ordinary glass shuts out, heating apparatus
which serves the outside as well as the inside cages, and
swing doors operated by the animals themselves between
the inner and outer cages, allowing a free choice of either
on ﬁne days without risk of unpleasant draughts.

Experience extending over six or seven years forces me
to say to anyone thinking of buying a monkey for a pet,
“ DON’T.” Their delicacy in this climate,_the difﬁculty
and expense of feeding them properly, the problem of
keeping their cages sanitary, and, last but by no means
least, the constant care and attention which they require
will make serious inroads on one’s time and patience.
One further point should be mentioned: every monkey

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

114 THE ANIMAL YEAR BOOK

has an instinctive habit of biting even its closest friends.
In the wild state this is almost their only means of defence
and seems to be quite a reﬂex action: they dare not give
themselves time to think. No amount of domestication
seems to eradicate this, and every monkey-owner has some
old scars to show. The tempers of monkeys also get
gradually worse with age. g

If, in spite of all, any reader of these notes still persists
in keeping a monkey, then it is better to buy a pair ; they
will be company for each other. It is distinctly unkind to
keep such a naturally gregarious animal by itself. A large
cage (the larger the better) will be required, closed in on
three sides against draughts, with a removable metal ﬂoor,
which must be kept supplied with a good layer of sawdust
and straw or wood shavings. Perches and swings should
be provided and all wooden corners must be protected by
strips of “ tin ” to prevent the monkeys from biting them
to splinters. Such a cage should be furnished with two
large handles, enabling it to be taken out of doors on ﬁne
days ; alternatively, an outdoor cage should be provided.
If monkeys do not get plenty of direct sunlight and open
air (fresh air is not enough) they usually develop rickets or
simply pine away and die. They are very susceptible to
throat and lung diseases, and especially tuberculosis, which
is always fatal.

Their food should be as varied as possible. All kinds of
nuts, fruits, raw vegetables, salads, raw eggs, etc., are their
natural diet, while all sophisticated foods such as bread
and butter or jam, rice puddings, cake, biscuit, sugar,
etc., are unnatural and should only be given sparingly.
Milk is particularly good for them but must be of the
tuberculin—tested variety, or else should be boiled and
when cool a little lemon or orange juice added. By keeping
them a little thirsty occasionally, they can be induced to
drink a mixture of egg, milk and water to which has been
added a little genuine cold-drawn cod liver oil or halibut
oil. The egg is whisked after adding the oil, then the milk
is gradually added, still whisking, and lastly a little water.

 

 




 

SOME CURRENT PROBLEMS 115-.

It will be seen from the above notes how slender are the
chances of a monkey’s survival in this country even under
the most careful conditions, and I should like to see legisla—
tion introduced which would limit their importation except
when consigned to recognised zoological gardens.

(7) NOTE ON CALCIUM CYANIDE

by J. E. RAMSBOTTOM, D.Sc., Ph.D., and
K. RAMSBOTTOM, B.Sc.

INTRODUCTION
CALCIUM cyanide has not yet been prepared in a pure

state. Products containing various amounts of calcium
cyanide are, however, manufactured. Some of these are
marketed under registered trade names. One method of
manufacture is to heat a mixture of calcium cyanamide,
calcium carbide and salt in an electric furnace. The
principal reaction may be represented as follows :—
CaCN2 —|— C Z Ca(CN)2.

The product contains cyanogen approximately equivalent
to 36 per cent. sodium cyanide.

A purer product is obtained by the interaction of calcium
carbide and liquid hydrOcyanic acid. (2) The main reaction
may be summed up as

CaC2 + 4HCN —> C3H2<CN)2 + CQHQ.

The cyanogen content of this product is approximately
equivalent to 103 per cent. sodium cyanide.

PROPERTIES

(a) General. Calcium cyanide is put on the market in
the form of a very ﬁne powder, which makes it admirably
suited for dusting purposes. It remains unchanged when
kept in air-tight containers for long periods at temperatures
between 00 C. and 600 C. (3) Calcium cyanide differs
from other salts of hydrocyanic acid used in fumigating in
that it does not require the use of mineral acid to liberate its

 

# __ ,. . _.-n., _...;.,.;.I._‘_‘__1.
“—M -1av. mam

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

116 THE ANIMAL YEAR BOOK

cyanide content, but reacts readily With the moisture of
the air, giving off hydrocyanic acid and forming lime.

Ca(CN)2 + 2H20 —> Ca(OH)2 + 2HCN.

(b) Rate of evolution of hydrocyanic acid. The rate of
evolution of hydrocyanic acid from calcium cyanide when
exposed to the air depends on the state of division of the
powder, the active cyanogen content, and on the relative
humidity of the atmosphere. From tests (4) on four samples
of calcium cyanide containing cyanogen equivalent to
17-6—25-27 per cent. hydrocyanic acid and of a ﬁneness
such that 80 per cent. would pass through a zoo-mesh
sieve, it was concluded that 90 per cent. or more of the
available hydrocyanic acid would be liberated in about
two hours in air of a relative humidity of 50 per cent. or
more. On the other hand, a product described as con-
taining the equivalent of 103-6 per cent. sodium cyanide is
stated (5) to yield about 75 per cent. of its hydrocyanic
acid content in half a minute and practically thewhole in
one minute when spread in extremely thin layers, such
evolution of gas taking place on exposure to air with a
relative humidity as low as 25 per cent.

USES
The properties described above make calcium cyanide a
very convenient medium for operations requiring the use
of hydrocyanic acid, notably fumigation. It has many
advantages over liquid hydrocyanic acid, especially as
regards safety in handling, transportation and application,
whilst its ﬁne state of sub—division makes the distribution of
the gas by suitable appliances a simple operation. In some
situations it is more effective as a fumigant than liquid
hydrocyanic acid, since the gas may be evolved actually in
contact with the living organisms and thus a higher local
concentration can be obtained than is possible with liquid
hydrocyanic acid. As a fumigant hydrocyanic acid has
been used for ships, warehouses, railway carriages, etc.,
since the beginning of the century. It is also used for the
eradication of plant and. animal pests, such as scale on

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

SOME CURRENT PROBLEMS 117

citrus trees and wood boring insects. On an experimental
scale, calcium cyanide has been used to exterminate rabbits
and rats.

Toxicity of hydrocyanic acid. Under the name prussic
acid, hydrocyanic acid is probably one of the most widely
known poisons. So much has been written on its poisonous
character that the name itself may inspire fear, and this .
no doubt has restricted its extended use in the extermination
of pests. Indeed, it is stated (6) that German propaganda
made great efforts to demoralise the Allied soldiers by the
threat to use prussic acid, although they apparently never
actually used the gas.

The physiological action of hydrocyanic acid has been
the subject of much investigation. Expressed in simple
terms, hydrocyanic acid may be described as belonging to
the class of poisonous gases known as paralysants. (7)
This type of poison in sufﬁcient concentration causes
almost instantaneous death by its eﬁect on the nervous
system. For death toensue the determining factor is that
the rate of inhalation of the poison shall exceed its rate of
elimination by the body.

The effect of hydrocyanic acid is not cumulative. (8)
In other words, a man or animal exposed to it either
recovers completely without suffering any permanent '
injury, or dies. Moreover, recovery from the effects of any
concentration which does not produce death is very rapid.

The lethal concentration for man is relatively high, being
greater than one part in two thousand. (9) A mixture of
this concentration was breathed by J. Barcroft (10) for
one and a half minutes without ill-effects, but the animal
which was with him died.

Calcium cyanide as a fumigant for rabbit warrens. As
stated above, calcium cyanide has 'been used to a limited
extent for exterminating rabbits, and it would appear to
be a very efﬁcient and humane method of dealing with the
rabbit pest. It can be readily blown into the holes by
suitable appliances, and as reaction with moist air is rapid

 

 

 

 




 

118 THE ANIMAL YEAR BOOK

and the rate of diffusion high, the gas will quickly penetrate
all the ramiﬁcations of the warren. With a sufficiently
high concentration, death is almost instantaneous (11)
and hence involves little suffering. When fully decomposed,
calcium cyanide leaves only the harmless product lime.
Any gas left in the holes will escape, mainly by diffusion,
and be dispersed. In the dry state, hydrocyanic acid is
very stable, but in presence of water it slowly decomposes
into ammonia and formic acid, undergoing also polymerisa-
tion 3“ into a harmless brown amorphous powder. (12)
The latter action is more rapid in presence of alkalis,
which may be present in the soil.

As regards the effect of hydrocyanic acid on the ﬂesh of
the rabbit, it would appear that very little hydrocyanic acid
is absorbed. (13) The United States Department of
Agriculture (14) has indicated that removal of meats and
other food products during fumigation of premises with
hydrocyanic acid is unnecessary.

 

 

 

 

 

 

Possible eﬂect on operators. All authorities appear to
agree that fumigation with calcium cyanide in enclosed
spaces is deﬁnitely a dangerous operation. In the open,
however, the conditions are entirely different. Hydro-
cyanic acid gas has a‘density of 0.691 and is therefore lighter
than air, and hence has a high dispersion rate. As the gas
is evolved only by contact of the calcium cyanide with
moist air, it will tend to disperse in the open as fast as it is
formed, especially in a slight breeze. In this respect
calcium cyanide appears to be a safer fumigant than liquid
hydrocyanic acid, where the gas is formed by the simple
process of vaporisation. It would thus seem that with
reasonable care the chances of obtaining a sufficiently high
concentration in the open fatal to man are small. This
appears to be borne out by experiences in the World War.
The French used gas shells containing hydrocyanic acid,
but the Allies doubted whether a sufﬁciently high concen-

 

 

 

 

 

 

* (Eq’z'tor’s Note.) Polymerisation is a chemical change resulting from
the union of two or more molecules of the original substance to form a
new compound.

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

SOME CURRENT PROBLEMS 119

- tration could be obtained to be of military value. (15)

This led to an experiment in which a prominent Cambridge
physiologist entered a chamber containing hydrocyanic
acid of an agreed concentration. He suffered no ill-effects,
but the concentration was sufﬁcient to kill the animals
which were with him. As stated above, the Germans
apparently made no use of hydrocyanic acid gas and it
probably accounted for fewer casualties than any other
gas. (16)

The characteristic smell of hydrocyanic acid may act to
some extent as a safeguard, since air in which the smell of
hydrocyanic acid is distinctly perceptible may be breathed
constantly without ill-effect. (17) With small concentration,
the symptoms give a warning of danger, since the ﬁrst effect
is to produce giddiness and darkening of the visual ﬁeld.
These symptoms, however, disappear after a few minutes’
exposure to fresh air. Prolonged exposure may produce
unConsciousness and more or less complete Cessation of
respiration, but if the heart still acts, artiﬁcial respiration
with oxygen may be successful. (18) This necessity should,
however, never arise if due care is taken not to breathe the
dust or approach too closely those areas where the con-
centration is obviously high. If these precautions are
taken, calcium cyanide fumigation would appear to be one
of the simplest and most effective of the humane methods of
dealing with the rabbit pest.

BIBLIOGRAPHY

1. THORPE. Dictionary of Applied Chemistry, Vol. 11, 467.
2. METZGER. Ind. Eng. Chem. 1926. 18. 161.

3. Ibid. 162.

4. YOUNG, H. D. Ind. Eng. Chem. 1929. 21. 863.
5. METZGER. Ind. Eng. Chem. 1926. 18. 162.

6. LEFEBURE, V. Riddle 0f the Rhine. 114.

7. Encyclopwdia Britannica. 5. 351.

8. Ibid. 18. 660.

9. Ibid.

10. Ibid. 18. 660.

11.1bid. 5. 351.

 

 

 




120 THE ANIMAL YEAR BOOK

12. BEILSTEIN. 11. 36.

13. HUYT, L. F. Ind. Eng. Chem. 1928. 20. 835.

14. Bur. Animal Industry Service and Regulatory Announcements.
1921 (January).

I 5. LEFEBURE, V. Riddle of the Rhine. 22.

16. Ibid. 114. '

I7. THORPE. Dictionary of Applied Chemistry, Vol. II, 467.

18. Ibid.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

_ BOOK REVIEWS
SOME RECENT BOOKS DEALING WITH ANIMALS
' Edited by C. M. KNIGHT, D.Litt.

The generosity of publishers in submitting review copies of
books has enabled us again to include a chapter on literature in
The Animal Year Book. Our list is necessarily incomplete;
but we believe it includes the most important books on animal
subjects published during the past two years. It is not only the
number of these books but even more the high quality and
serious character, often involving accurate research, of many
of them that is impressive. It is interesting to note the many
recent books dealing with the need for the conservation of wild
life both in this country and elsewhere, and also in connection
with some species of whales in danger of extinction. We
include in our list two general books on the protection of
animals : “ The Creed of Kinship ” by that veteran of the animal
cause, Henry S. Salt, who reminds us of the fundamental ethics
which must be recognised by the would—be reformer of cruelties
inﬂicted on animals or men ; the other, “ Animal Life of Yesterday
and To—day,” by J. Morewood Dowsett, which sets forth a history
of the movement for amelioration of the lot of animals and its
present stage of progress.

My very warm thanks are due to all who have found time, in
the midst of very busy professional lives, to write reviews for
this chapter. I would also add my personal gratitude to the
publishers, who are mentioned categorically in the preface by
the General Edit01.

C. M. KNIGHT.

The Creed 0f Kinship. By Henry S. Salt. Pp. I I6. (Constable
& C0,, 1935.) 5/—.

Henry S. Salt might be called the “ Compleat Humanitarian”
he stands, therefore, on the left wing of the movements which
seek to ameliorate conditions on earth for all Sentient creatures.
He has not allowed middle and old age to weaken his enthusiasm
for the achievement of a true‘ ‘civilisation,” but the wisdom of
experience gives him patience and faith in the future generations.

Mr. Salt feels that the fundamental belief which will inspire
progress must be the sense of “ Kinship ” between all living things.

121

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

122 THE ANIMAL YEAR BOOK

In the light of this creed he reviews the problems of the present
civilisation—poverty, crime and punishment, .war and the
sufferings inﬂicted on animals.

In considering the many different groups of people working
to solve these problems, Mr. Salt admits that for practical
purposes all reformers must concentrate on the particular line
for which they are responsible, but he urges these specialists
not to lose sight of the work carried out by other groups.

Anyone with the courage to stand for so many reforms is
likely to be accused of crankiness and sentimentality. By his
calm, logical and tolerant writings, Mr. Salt clears himself of
these accusations. The views of the reader may differ con-
siderably from those expressed in the book, but he must perforce

respect the sincerity and culture of the author.
C. E. HURREN.

Animal ~ Life of Yesterday and To—day. By J. Morewood
Dowsett. Pp. 300. Illustrated. (Grayson 8: Grayson,
1936.) 10/6.

In a foreword and ten chapters the author discusses several
subjects connected with animals, and reveals his deep feeling
for them and understanding of their ways. _He directly con-
demns the treatment to which they are too often subjected by
man : “ The superiority of man’s reasoning powers over those
accorded to the lower animals should be manifested primarily
in the protection of animal life from any form of unnecessary
suffering. . . . Sympathy for animals should be extended to
the whole of the animal kingdom and not merely to those species
with which we are in daily contact. . . . So many human beings
make unreasonable comparisons and expect from an animal what
it is incapable of giving.”

The book is pleasantly written, stimulating and instructive.
The foreword contains accounts of the early attempts of Erskine
and Martin to introduce legislation to “prevent wanton and
malicious cruelty to animals,” of Martin’s eventual success in
1822, of the founding of the R.S.P.C.A. in 1824, and of the
subsequent movements for reform. The author would like to
see an Animal Research Society founded for the purpose of
investigating practically every phase of animal life, especially
for sifting evidence of their possession of higher mental faculties
as distinguished from instinct, and to give precision to the
meanings of such terms as feeling, thought, consciousness and
intention. There are chapters on bull- and bear-baiting, and
dog- and cock-ﬁghting of the eighteenth century, with allusions
to such sports in this country as far back as the ﬁfteenth century.

 




 

BOOK REVIEWS I 23

' Several chapters deal with the horse and its ancestry, and the
animals, living and extinct, peculiar to South America, which
he visited in order to study on the spot the “new sphere of
usefulness for animals.” He had learned that “ with the co-
operation of man’s most faithful friend, the horse, it was now
possible to heal wounds inﬂicted by the bites of poisonous
snakes,” and he “felt a great desire to inspect the various
processes of the manufacture of snake serum ” in Brazil.
Chapter IX, entitled “ Ophiology, The Horse as a Factory,”
gives all that a general reader may require to know of the
manufacture and use of the serums for snake bites.

Chapter X (44 pages), entitled “ Our Duty towards the Lower
Animals,” expresses the need for new and more stringent
legislation to stamp out all cruel treatment of animals, as well
as for education of the public in kindness to animals. “ There’s
a snake, kill it,” is the slogan of many people whose prejudices
rule their minds. The author’s remarks on the lax administration
of the laws can be conﬁrmed by any reader of the daily press.
He says “ only too often the daily papers contain reports of out-
rageous cruelty to animals; the readers imagine that the
magistrates would inﬂict the fullest penalties within their powers,
but time after time the offender gets off with a moderate ﬁne.
In some cases the administrator of the law desires to be known
locally as a kind-hearted man, and so deals lightly with all
delinquents ; such a man is a disgrace to the Bench. Not only
does he encourage cruelty by his actions, but he also discourages
animal—lovers from prosecuting. . . . I should like to see
corporal punishment introduced for offences of wanton cruelty.”

D. A. MACALISTER.

How Animals Develop. By C. H. Waddington. Pp. 127.
(George Allen & Unwin, 1935.) 3/6.

The author gives ﬁrst a sketch of the general pattern on
which all animals are built, and the more important differences
in the various groups, and then takes his reader further and gives
an account of the factors which promote the development of
the parts and bring them into correct relation with one another.

The author is himself one of the workers, following Spemann
and his colleagues, on the physiological side of embryology,
which deals with the causes responsible for embryological
grthh and differentiation and is based on experiment. The
inclusion of this aspect of development makes the book unique
for its size. Owing to the simple lanaguage the general reader
will be able to appreciate the problems, the method of approach
to their solution and the salient facts of development; the

9

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

124. THE ANIMAL YEAR BOOK

medical or zoological student will obtain a reliable, up-to-date
and in some respects an original survey of the science of
embryology. M. TRIBE.

Parade of the Animal Kingdom. By Robert Hegner. Assisted
by Jane Z. Hegner. Pp. 675. Illustrated. (The Mac—
millan Company, New York, 1935.) 21/—.

This book sets out to give a pictorial record of many of the
most striking members of the animal kingdom, together with a
short description of the appearance and habits of the animals
ﬁgured. The language used is simple, and scientiﬁc terminology
has been deliberately avoided, so that the layman, whose interest
it has been designed to arouse, will not ﬁnd the book tedious
to read.

The illustrations are almost exclusively photographic. When
these are of the living animal in its natural surroundings, they
are excellent, but many are photographs of museum casts or
groups, and some of these are not so successful. The photograph
of the ﬁght between a cobra and a mongoose on p. 617, for
example, is an unfortunate choice, since the cobra is shown
constricting the mongoose, a complete inaccuracy for the cobra
is not a constricting snake. The imagination of the taxidermist

has here clearly exceeded the bounds of natural history.
H. E. BARGMANN.

Wild Life in South Africa. By H. A. Bryden. Pp. 283. (G. G.
Harrap & Co., Ltd., 1935.) I5/—.

This work may be considered a ﬁtting climax (if climax it is)
to the author’s proliﬁc pen. Since 1889 Mr. Bryden has written
twenty-two books, all of which deal with sporting and natural
history subjects, and most of them with Africa south of the
Zambesi. A notable exception to his sporting works is “ A
History of South Africa ” published in 1904, a short, interesting,
and concise volume. “ Wild Life in South Africa ” will appeal
primarily to the sportsman and secondarily to the naturalist,
whilst humanitarians and conservationists have cause‘to complain
that the writer largely ignores the feelings of the former and does
not sufﬁciently stress the seriousness of the extermination of
big fauna which is to-day agitating the minds of the latter.

Mr. Bryden is a ﬁeld naturalist of the ﬁrst water, and in each
of twenty-three chapters, out of the thirty, he deals fully in a most
interesting manner with the peculiarities of one particular kind
of animal or bird. His powers of Observation and description
cannot be bettered, and each chapter is in itself a natural

 




 

BOOK REVIEWS 1 2 5

history thesis of merit. Particularly good chapters are “ Giraffe

and their Distribution,” “ The Roan Antelope,” “ The Secretary

Bird,” “ Honey Guides,” and “ A Forgotten African Hunter.”
A. H. B. KIRKMAN.

Pride of Lions. By Bertram F. Jeary, F.‘R.A.S., F.R.M.S.
Pp. 159. Illustrated. (Longmans, Green 8: Co., 1936.)
10/6. .

The author deﬁnes in the beginning his purpose in writing
this boOk, namely, a very real desire “to bring about a better
understanding between the King of Beasts and Man,” and “ to
demonstrate the possibility of preserving wild animals under
untrammelled natural conditions.” Some of his observations
were made and photographs taken in the bush outside, but most
of them within the Kruger National Park, of which he gives us
a brief history, reminding us of the debt which the world owes
to the Transvaal Republic for its inception in 1898; for that
was the beginning of all animal reserves. The animals there
livein absolutely natural conditions except that the numbers of
any species which begins to preponderate are kept down, and
that visitors are allowed to travel through in closed motor cars.

Mr. Jeary’s pictures are all genuine photographs taken at
close range and are, as Mr. J. Wentworth Day reminds us in his
foreword to the book, to be distinguished from the fakes which
the cinema ﬁlm has sometimes foisted upon an all—too—credulous
public. “Pride of Lions,” however, is not merely a book of
marvellous and beautiful pictures of lions, lionesses and cubs,
and a few other animals of the bush, but the pictures are just
illustrations to an even more interesting and fascinating text.
The author describes to us the technique of lion-watching, which
recalls the methods of bird-watching and other pursuits of ﬁeld
naturalists in our own country. He describes from his own
observation lion romances in the bush, the hunt for food, the
kill, the cubs, learning to hunt, the genius of the lioness in
teaching her cubs: her choice of a ground where the game is
small enough for the cubs to tackle; the mother leading her
cubs there, arranging for the cubs to make the kill and ﬁnally
washing from them the marks of their gory meal. All lions
are born with the instinct to kill, but the technique of successful
hunting has to be acquired. There are wonderful descriptions
of the early morning and evening in the veld and the animals
coming to drink. Lions live in well—deﬁned territory and move
away only when the game becomes scarce or the water dries up ;
they dispute their rights with any invader. Mr. Jeary has
witnessed such a battle between lions. In addition to so many

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

126 THE ANIMAL YEAR BOOK

details of the life of lions and their young, Mr. Jeary can
tell us much about their mentality and character. Such an
understanding is essential for the photographer. He considers
lions in general are “ extremely good-natured and not a little
lazy ” ; like our domestic cats, they are also inquisitive ; and many
incidents described as attacks on motor cars are merely tours of
inspection on their part. Those who would photograph and
observe lions must keep the “ laws ” ; quietness and immobility
are essential lest the animals be alarmed ; for their life is passed
under conditions that make their imagination ever run on
danger and the need for self—protection. Mr. Jeary gives a
set of rules for would-be lion photographers and observers.
Many people, however, who have neither the desire nor the
opportunity to become photographers and observers of lions,
will enjoy the possession of this book for the sincerity of purpose,
the sympathetic attitude and patient understanding of animal
psychology on the part of the author no less than for the many
wonderful photographs. Those who have hitherto regarded the
lion as a creature of awe behind the bars of a zoo or in a circus
will in these pages learn to know him in his real life. Mr.
Jeary has made some fascinating studies; the man who in an
open car or on foot can face lions sometimes at a range of only
ﬁfteen feet and use only his camera needs greater courage and a
quicker intelligence than the man who hunts them with the gun.
For a book so well produced and containing no less than
sixty—eight splendid reproductions of unique photographs we
consider the priCe very moderate. C. M. KNIGHT.

Three Weeks in Wonderland. By Edith L. France. Pp. 87.
Illustrated. (Juta & Co., Ltd., Cape Town ; Walker Bros.
(London),eLtd., 1936.) 3/6.

The Kruger National Park in its various aspects is inspiring
a good many books; among them “ Three Weeks in Wonder—
land ” Will be useful to those who intend to spend some time
travelling through the reserve. The author tells us many
details of camping, equipment, etc., and the camping centres.
She also deals with topography, and it is a pity she did not include
a sketch—map, which would have added to the value and interest
of that part of her work, and we think need not have detracted
from the artistic nature of the book. In these pages we meet
the various animals and birds which inhabit the Kruger National
Park and are reminded from time to time of the wonders of the
vegetation too. The author does not forget to mention the
courteous helpfulness of the authorities of the Park and the
wllllng service of the “ boys.” In general this is a descriptive

 




 

BOOK REVIEWS 127

book and in no sense a scientiﬁc work on animal observation.
It is illustrated from photographs taken by the author.
‘ C. M. KNIGHT.

Apes and Monkeys. By E. G. Boulenger. Pp. 234. Illustrated.
(George G. Harrap & Co., Ltd., 1936.) 7/6.

The extraordinarily ﬁne photographs, chieﬂy produced by
Mr. F. S. Bond, F.R.P.S., from animals in the London Zoo,
are in themselves good value for the price of this book, and
when associated, as they are, with text of scholarly merit, easy
reading and profound educational value, make up a work which
should be in the hands of every naturalist. Mr. Boulenger,
whose writings are always interesting, has done nothing better
in the educational line than “ Apes and Monkeys.” It contains
just as much as the average reader wants to know on the subject
of the primates and no more. Apart from the information
embodied, the author’s sense of humour, and occasional touches
of sarcasm give just that ﬁllip which is the apple sauce to the
duck. Mr. Boulenger discusses the evolutionary aspect of
these animals in an easily understood manner, and deals with
the habits of the primates in the wild and in captivity. Humani-
tarians will welcome the strong line of deprecation taken on the
exploitation of the anthropoids by man, and the following
quotation with reference to the African colobus monkeys may
possibly bring blushes to the cheeks of the more conscientious
of our fair cousins. “ Forty years ago over 175,000 of these
animals were killed in a single year in order to bedeck ladies who
presumably found their natural charms insufﬁcient. Ten
years later the demand for their skins was greater than ever,
but only 1,067 could be found, so well had the hunters done their
work.”

One cannot refrain from quoting the following indictment,
which may touch the hearts of the most callous “ Finally no
review of the monkey’s economic uses can be complete without
reference to the creature’s employment in that ﬁnal reﬁnement
of modern civilisation, the use of poison gas, since thousands
of rhesus and other monkeys have in recent years been sacriﬁced
by the most cultivated of European nations in testing gases
intended for the extermination of their neighbours.”

A. H. B. KIRKMAN.

Fang and Claw. By Frank Buck with Ferrin Fraser. Pp. 284.
Illustrated. (Jarrolds, 1935.) I6/—.

The reviewer’s opinion on one of Frank Buck’s books, “ Wild
Cargo,” was forcibly expressed in The Animal Year Book, Vol. III.

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

'128 THE ANIMAL YEAR BOOK

After carefully reading “ Fang and Claw ” he sees no reason to
modify his opinion of this author as one engrossed in the
superiority of his own personality. Prior to conversing on
matters connected with the Orient with his great friends, who
persist in addressing him as Frank, in the Singapore bars, he
ﬁnds it necessary to lay stress on the fact that he had a drink and
a cigar as necessary concomitants to a free expression of his
feelings. The book, which is well got up and printed in bold
type, contains a mixture of Eastern detective stories and un—
reliable expositions on the awfulness of wild beasts. His
elephant, his orang-outang, his king cobra and his crocodile
are all the “biggest known,” although he does not record the
sizes, and his writing is full to overﬂowing with superlatives and
exaggerations which make the volume valueless to the naturalist
or the searcher after truth. His detective type of story is good,
but is not an imprOvement on many of the popular stories of
ﬁction writers sold on the station bookstall at 3/6.

Mr. Buck must have had so many adverse criticisms on the
genuineness of his Wild beast ﬁghts that he, in the chapter
“ Animal Fights,” works up his imagination to describe an
authentic story of a ﬁght between a python and a black leopard.
The python, in a condescending manner, remains for an in-
deﬁnite period by the side of a game path, whilst Buck and his
friend ﬁx up a camera and a screen. Here they proceed to tell
yarns and drink whiskies and sodas, whilst a big party of natives
beat the surrounding jungle and drive a black leopard which,
by a remarkable coincidence, happens to be in the neighbourhood,
Within reach of the python. Then the ﬁght begins, and the
picture is taken, a beautiful “ close up,” perfectly focused.
One leaves the reader to form his own impressions on the
authenticity of this remarkable story, as of the several other wild
animal ﬁghts depicted in Buck’s ﬁlms. In the reviewer’s
opinion, and in that of others who know the wilds, they are all
monstrous fakes prepared in small enclosures under unnatural
and cruel conditions. The cruelty inﬂicted in the capture of
wild animals can be read between the lines of this book. Buck
did not make his living by capturing wild creatures, but rather
by purchasing them in great quantities from the natives and
shipping them to North America. From his own account he did
occasionally do the actual catching. He tells us how in a skilful
way he cut off the bough on which a clouded leopard had taken
refuge with many shots of his riﬂe so that the animal was
precipitated into a net prepared by his native followers. “ The
biggest orang-outang in the world ” would not allow himself to be
captured in this way, and consequently he had to be starved
and famished in a Durian tree for six or seven days before ﬁnally

 

 




 

 

BOOK REVIEWS 129

entering a trap containing fruit. This diabolical method of
withholding water when capturing adult wild animals is em-
phatically condemned by humanitarians and indeed by all right-
thinking people. A. H. B. KIRKMAN.

Adventures with Animals and Men. By Cherry Kearton. Pp.
292. Illustrated. (Longmans, Green 8: Co., 1935.) 12/6.

Every worker in the animal cause should read this book; at
any rate he or she should read the greater portion of it which
deals with animal photography in the wilds. If one reads a part,
one must read the whole, unless there is something unusual in
the mentality of the reader. The book is brimful of exciting
and hair-raising anecdotes, all of them true and all of them
incidents in the life of the pioneer of animal ﬁlm photography.
It will come as a surprise to readers to learn the extraordinary
escapes from death the author, a great man physically and
mentally, had when hanging over a cliff photographing bird life
at home, and deserted by his companions on the cliff above,
when dodging wild beasts of Africa, or when handling his
company in the East African campaign during the Great War.
The passion Mr. Kearton had for animal photography led him
into many lands and into many difﬁculties, and one may record
with pleasure that, although a famous shot, he always avoided
using the riﬂe unless food was required or his own life or that
of his companions was at stake. A great example, he looked
upon animal photography as a far ﬁner sport than shooting, and
he proclaims, as we all should, the perversion of the ﬁlm in
the faked pictures of wild beasts, so cruel in their origin and
so popular with a deluded public. He supports the contention
that ﬁghts between wild beasts in the jungle cannot be photo—
graphed under natural conditions, and that unnatural and
gruesome contests exhibited 1n the modern cinema to a gullible
public are fakes.

This book 1s in reality a disjointed autobiography; its only
fault is that it is too short. We must wait and hope that Mr.
Kearton will ﬁnd time to write another and bigger work with
more incidents from his wonderful life.

The author’s sense of humour is always in evidence; the
forty-four photographs of wild beasts are excellent, and the
type is hold. A. H. B. KIRKMAN.

Land of Elephants. By Count Zsigmond Szechenyi. Pp. 208.
Illustrated. (Putnam, 1936.) 12/6.

This is a typical book of African hunting, very similar to the
many published towards the end of the last century, with the

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

13o ‘ THE ANIMAL YEAR BOOK

added interest of photographs taken by the author in place of .

the old type of pen- --and ink sketches. Some of the photographs
are particularly good, notably buffaloes, p. 118; giraffe, p. 120;
rhinoceros, p. 191; and several of elephants under natural
conditions in typical tropical forest country. The studies of
African natives are above the average. For the sportsman
there is plenty of useful information on the wild animals of
Tanganyika, Kenya and Uganda, but perhaps the best chapter
in the book 1s that on termites.

Shooting was the author’s hobby, and there 1s little sentiment
or material of special interest to the humanitarian or the
naturalist. A. H. B. KIRKMAN.

Grey Owl and the Beaver. By Harper Cory, with an account of
the Fall Activities of the Beaver by Grey Owl. Pp. 140.
Illustrated. (Thomas Nelson 8: Sons, Ltd., 1935.) 2/6.

Grey Owl’s tour in England ended in January, 1936, in the
large ball at University College, where he addressed a crowded
meeting of London University students and the friends of
ULAWS. He was a picturesque ﬁgure in his native costume with
a dipped eagle’s feather in his strong, straight, black hair, the
Red Indian dominant in his blend. No one who heard him
could have doubted the absolute sincerity of his affection for
animals in general and for beavers in particular. To this small
volume Harper Cory contributes eight sections headed as
follows: “A Visit to Grey Owl,” “ Grey Owl’s Friends”
(furred and feathered), “ Grey Owl makes a Start ” (in the wilds
of Canada), “ In the Beginning” (befo1e the coming of the white
man), “ Destroying All ” (the fur trade), “ The National Parks,”
“ Grey Owl’s Dream,” “ The Dream comes True” (Con-
servator of the Riding Mountain National Park). Mr. Cory
says (p. 109), “ Trapping will continue while there is a demand
for furs, but the public conscience has at last been awakened
by Grey Owl: there will be little more trapping of animals
during the breeding season and, just in time, the Beaver people
have been saved from extinction.”

Grey Owl contributes Section 9 with Notes on the beaver
and Canada’s wild life sanctuaries. He says (p. 111),
“ Humane methods should always be employed when dealing
with wild life, and the two principal objects of conservation
kept in mind, which are, ﬁrstly, to effect the proper administra-
tion of fauna with the minimum of sacriﬁce of innocent lives,
with due regard to the beneﬁts accruing, not to a few corporations
or individuals, but to the many , secondly, to give intelligent
and sympathetic consideration to the claims the animals them-
selves have on our chivalry and goodwill.”

 




 

 

BOOK REVIEWS I 3 I

The beaver is one of those unfortunates with thick fur. It
is easy to understand and sympathise with Red Indians and other
residents of the arctic and sub—arctic regions of Canada for
using the skins of animals for their clothing, but it is quite another
matter when trapping is organised on the present large scale by
the agents of companies which exploit the wild life of Canada
to cater for fashion in Europe’s cities where fabrics of all kinds
more suited to the climate can be obtained without involving
cruelty or extermination of attractive species. Canada, with its
vast area of uninhabited lands and superabundance of trees to
gnaw, can well afford to support the beaver in its natural sur-
roundings. It is to be hoped that Grey Owl’s work is only a
beginning, and that the future will see the establishment of
many all-the-year—round preserves in areas which are now the
hunting—grounds of trappers who ought in this civilised age to be
regarded as anachronisms. - D. A. MACALISTER.

Tales of an Empty Cabin. By Grey Owl. Pp. 33 5. Illustrated.
(Lovat Dickson, Ltd., 1936.) 10/6.

The publisher’s advertisement alludes to this book of Grey
Owl’s as his greatest. Itis a great book and one to which it
is difﬁcult to do justice in a review because of its freshness and
vigour, its intense feeling and humour, often expressed in the
vernacular, and the poetic descriptions of the scenery and life,
Red Indian and animal, of the wilds of Canada, the woods and
rivers, portages and rapids, north of the Great Divide. Though
Grey Owl has three other books to his name it is possible that
he would prefer to be known as a man with a mission rather
than as a writer. The circumstances in which portions of this
book were written are probably typical of his way of life : “ For
the past two months I have been trying to write a book . . . if
it isn’t a good book I can give you a number of very good reasons
Why. About the best of these is a bumping, banging, thudding
noise, accompanied by wailing, screeching and chattering, in
what sounds like a foreign tongue, caused by a number of
beaver, of assorted ages from one to seven years, expostulating
with each other over the ownership of a pile of stove-wood that
I have, in a weak moment, left before the door of the beaver
lodge.” . .

The book is in three sections. In“ Tales of the Northland ”
there are good stories written in various moods, and some
essays or musings on such subjects as comfort and hardship.
To see in “ Nemesis ” a weird story of Poe, and in “ Rivermen ”
(Book Two : “ Mississauga”) a graphic account such as Mark
Twain might have written is not so far—fetched as it may sound,

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

132 THE ANIMAL YEAR BOOK

but all the stories are clever, original and full of the right
sentiments.

Grey Owl is quite frank in his contempt for visitors to the
Canadian northland who are blind to its unique beauties and
only see in them commercial propositions, such as lumbering;
and wherever possible throughout the book he stresses the
importance to Canada of establishing many more national parks
before it is too late. He has no use for nature—tamers and
conquerors of the wilds.

Book Three (“ Ajawaan ”) contains charming accounts of the be-
haviour of animals, and in particular of the beaver, in the presence
of man. Grey Owl says, “ I laid aside my riﬂe and my traps
and like Paul worked for the betterment of those whom I had so
assiduously persecuted.” He established a colony of beaver,
for he found in this animal, with its “ almost human, child—like
appeal,” a powerful weapon for his “ ambitious resolution to
broaden the ﬁeld of his activity ” to include the protection of all
wild life. He is deadly earnest in his aims and in his love for and
understanding of animals. There is a picture in the book
which shows a skunk clinging to a tree, and it has a legend:
“ The skunk is a natural gentleman, but unfortunately not a
mind reader ; so it’s your move.” Everyone knows the reputa-
tion of the skunk and it is unnecessary to labour the point.
Under another picture, “ Kagh, the porcupine, harmless and a
little dumb, but a good fellow when you get to know him.”
There are so many good things in the book that to review it is an
embarrassment. One more quotation must suﬂice. It is taken

from the chapter on “ Tolerance ” : “ Kindness to animals is
the hall-mark of human advancement; when it appears nearly
everything else can be taken for granted.” The only way to do
justice to the book is to read it twice. D. A. MACALISTER.

Vanishing Wilderness. By F. R. la Monte and M. H. Welch.
Pp. 320. (George G. Harrap 8: Co.) 7/6.

Written by two distinguished members of the staff of the
American Museum of Natural History and illustrated by excellent
black-and-white sketches from the pen of Captain V. Perﬁlieff,
this is a book one can thoroughly recommend to the young,
whether in years or knowledge. At a time like the present, when
extermination of species is agitating the animal-loving public,
a work of this nature is particularly valuable. Its eighteen
chapters, each of which deals with a different animal selected
from many parts of the world, contain a wealth of information
on the creature’s wild life and in many cases on its association
with man. The preliminary paragraphs to each chapter are

 




 

 

BOOK REVIEWS 133

generally devoted to a story, fact or ﬁction, in connection with
the animal’s life, which accentuate the value and add to the
interest of the remainder of the chapter, which deals with the
natural history more or less fully. The chapters on the platypus,
the camel and the reindeer are’exceptionally good.

The authors are interested in the conservation of wild life,
and they write sympathetically on this subject. As an African
ﬁeld naturalist the reviewer does not agree that hunting the
hippopotamus entails considerable skill, and one misses any men—
tion of the fact that the African elephant’s chief diet is the bark
and roots of trees. On p. 120 the authors discuss the question
of elephant cemeteries without any original ideas on the subject.

The African ant bear is not a “ small creature,” being almost
the weight of a man and having a bulky, ungainly body on short
legs. “ Between two and three thousand white Rhinos between
the North Eastern edge of the Congo rain forest and the West
bank of the Nile ” should surely read “ two or three hundred.”

. This book has afforded great interest and enjoyment, and these
few criticisms which appear necessary are not intended in the
nature of disparagement. The book is excellent.

A. H. B. KIRKMAN.

Pool and Rapid. The Story of a River. By R. L. Haig-Brown.
Pp. 239. Illustrated. Re-issued 1936. First published
1932. (Jonathan Cape.) 7/6.

This is a pleasant story, covering a period from the genesis,
according to Indian legend, to the development in modern times,
of a spot on the north-west coast of Canada, written with a
wealth of local detail of the natural conditions which had to be
faced and overcome by settlers.

The tale has several distinct phases, commencing with the
legend and natural history of the river and its stocking with
wild life, and ending with its harnessing with lumbering, gold—
rushes, trapping, salmon netting and so on. Chapter XXV
contains a defence of the “ merciful ” trapper.

In quoting the following passages it should be understood that
aspersions are not intended on an otherwise excellent narrative.

“Careless people, secure in the armchair comfort of great
cities, from time to time proclaim loudly that all trapping is
cruel and wicked. They advise everyone to buy furs that have
been raised on fur-farms and whose wretched owners (sic) have
been ‘ humanely killed,’ never pausing for a moment to realise
that the animals raised on a farm have been deprived of a priceless
possession all through their lives—their freedom—and then
have been deprived of life—if existence without freedom can

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

134 ' THE ANIMAL YEAR BOOK

be called life—by the very hand that raised them and fed them
and cared for them. A trapper takes life and freedom simul-
taneously. The trapped animal may suffer for a few hours,
but its suffering is limited by its capacity to feel and understand
pain. Nature has equipped animals to recover from and live
happily after pain that would kill any human. . . . Most
trappers are merciful—to succeed in their profession they must
understand, even love, the animals they try to catch. Many of
them are very intelligent men, with a far greater knowledge of
animals than any reformer can hope to possess; yet they still
trap. No trapper, whether he is intelligent or the reverse,
causes unnecessary suffering—why should he P—and often he is
the only reason for the survival of the species he kills. There
are many other more barbarous things than trapping in the
world, and the reformers’ zeal would be far better spent upon
them. Until we grow more civilised and far more intelligent
than we are likely to grow for centuries yet, let the trapper live.
Until we have learned not to send out our young men in thousands
to be. slaughtered in thousands with hideous bloodshed and
cruelty ; until we no longer rear sheep and cattle simply for the
butcher’s shop ; until we learn to treat our dogs as creatures for
whose happiness we are strictly responsible, and not as toys or
motor-cars; until we no longer clamour for the best possible
beef and pay high prices for the best possible furs; until we
have found a new means of livelihood for the trapper and have
solved the problem of unemployment, let us leave him alone.
God knows, he’s more cruel to himself than to the animals he
catches. Months alone back in the woods, working and
travelling every day through the cruellest weather in the world,
sleeping two nights out of three in rough shelters and one out
of every three in the dark cabin he calls home. At least his
life is natural, and it breeds men—the one type of animal that
would certainly become extinct if all the reformers had their way.”

Reforms seldom originate in the backwoods. Reformers so
far from being “ careless people, secure in the armchair comfort
of great cities ” are generally the disturbing element of city life,
for cities are the only places where all sorts and conditions of
men from everywhere can meet and exchange information and
opinions. There is no evidence as yet that trapped animals lose
“ life and freedom simultaneously.” Paradoxically enough, it is
the cities, in Europe at least, where the wearing of furs is un-
necessary, which absorb the most expensive furs. The most
charitable View to take about those who wear fashionable furs is
that they are ignorant of the cruelties of the traﬂﬁc.

D. A. MACALISTER.

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

BOOK REVIEWS I 3 5

Circus Parade. By John S. Clarke. Pp. 120. Illustrated.
(B. T. Batsford, Ltd., 1936.) 7/6.

The author of this book was actively connected with the circus
from early boyhood until 1910, but though at this date he took
up a different career, the circus still occupied the centre of his
interest and he could never keep away from it : “ once a circus
man, always a circus man.” When actively engaged Mr.
Clarke was concerned especially with wild animal turns in the
circus. This book, which he has written for the uninitiated, is
quite unique. It will make its chief appeal to those who are
interested in some aspects of circus life, but it cannot be ignored
by those who are investigating the question of performing
animals. The author tells us a great deal about the training of
wild animals and certainly seems to make it quite clear that
there can be no direct or positive cruelty involved in the
recognised methods in the best circuses in this country and
from the time of Karl Hagenbeck on the Continent ; wild animals
can never be tamed, but they can be “ gentled ” to obey. Apart
from the ethical objection which an increasing number of
people feel to this form of animal exploitation, one would like
to know what happens to the animals who prove unsuitable for
training. The author tells us that only four lions in twenty
are suitable in character and intelligence. What happens to
the other sixteen? Are they relegated to a lean existence of
boredom in a penny zoo? Forest-bred lions are better than
cage—born for the trainer’s art. This raises the question of
capture and transport, the wastage of animal life in transport,
etc. The author argues that the hardships and cruelty of a
natural life in the wild reduce all animals to bundles of nerves,
while the positive boon of captivity saves them from their
“ terrors.” This seems a priori an overstatement; furthermore,
the observations of ﬁeld naturalists who are beginning to deal
with wild liferdo not support such an idea (cf. “ Pride of Lions,”
by B. F. Jeary, reviewed on p. 125 in this volume). These are
merely questions which arise in the mind of the thoughtful
reader. lVlr. Clarke knows all the animals employed in the
circus and long observation has taught him a great deal about
their psychology.

“Circus Parade” deals with every aspect of the art of the
circus, and the author shows a vast knOwledge of its history,
artistry, personnel past and present, and organisation. He
introduces us to the loyal co-operation, the humours, the con—
tinual dangers and not a few of the tragedies in the lives of
showmen, whether they give their display on the trapeze of
ropes up in the dome or as riders, tricksters, jugglers or Clowns

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

136 THE ANIMAL YEAR BOOK

in the arena. The author not only writes with enthusiasm of
the life he knows, with its glamour, excitement and bustle,
but he has also taken pains to inquire into the origin of the various
arts of the circus.

“Circus Parade” is profusely illustrated by photographs,
many of them quite unique and taken during an actual per-
formance. It is the beautiful kind of publication which we
associate with the house of Batsford. C. M. KNIGHT.

Wild Life Studies. By Frances Pitt. Pp. 189. Illustrated.
The Argosy Series. (T. Nelson & Sons, Ltd., 1935.)
3/6.

It would be impertinent for any ordinary person to criticise
the writings of Miss Pitt, who is one of the most outstanding,
reliable and interesting writers on natural history of the day.
The high standard of her other books is maintained in this
volume, which is pf general interest and educational value.
“Just another children’s book,” says someone. Admittedly a
splendid book for children who know a little of natural history,
but more than that, for one deﬁes the hoary-headed naturalist,
who knows most of the facts contained therein, not to be en-
grossed by Miss Pitt’s witty and authentic description of the
habits and peculiarities of her wild animal friends in short stories
which are all too short. The reviewer confesses to such deep
absorption in “ the ferocious shrew ” that he was only just saved
from being carried on by the Southern Railway to a town some
twenty miles distant from his waiting dinner. All the stories are
good, and the clever pen drawings by the distinguished etcher
G. E. Collins give added interest to the letterpress. Most of
these stories have appeared previously in certain of the better
known weekly periodicals. A. H. B. KIRKMAN.

T he Passions 0f the Wild. By W. R. Calvert. Pp. 276. (Rich
8: Cowan, 1936.) 7/6.

The author of this work is well known from his previous book,
“The Secret of the Wild.” Mr. Calvert has learnt to under-
stand the passions of the wild by long and intense observation
of nature in the dales and on the fells of Cumberland, that
wildest corner of England, and in these pages he introduces us
to the inner lives of many animals—foxes, otters, badgers, hares,
shrews, voles, ravens, peregrines, curlews, jays, buzzards, pole—
cats, snails, glow-worms and many others, including even the
domestic cat and her kittens. The present reviewer can scarcely
recall a book which has succeeded so well in giving the reader a
feeling of intimacy with creatures of the wild—the violent

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

BOOK REVIEWS 137

passions and ruthlessness that knows no limit seen in their
courtship and love, their jealousy, their hatred, their ﬁghts and
their revenge even unto death, but also in their faithful friendship
and sympathy and in “ that great and lasting passion of the
wild that men call mother love.” The wild seems to us an
“endless chain of life and death ” with danger at every turn in
the course of nature undisturbed by man ; but, says Mr. Calvert,
“ the Wildings seldom think of death, till death itself comes swift
and sudden; most seeming cruel, perhaps, but most merciful
in fact.” In. addition there is always Man, the arch enemy of all
creatures. of the wild, who devises for them slow torture rather
than death “ swift and sudden.” Observers of life in the wild,
like Mr. Calvert, soon meet the cruelty of trapping, hunting,
and the ruthlessness, stupidity and selﬁshness of the game-
keeper.

Mr. Calvert has the gift of word—painting and poetic descrip-
tion, and we may mention in particular his picture of winter frost
and snow so beautiful to look upon but so cruel to the creatures
of the wild, and of the beginning of dawn and the stirring of wild
life then. All who enjoy luxuriant description in a poetic vein
and a discursive manner, but demand at the same time the results
of serious observation in books on nature, will desire to possess
“ The Passions of the Wild.” Animals and nature occupy most
of the pages; then we have a few human beings, especially the
old shepherd and Michael Fletcher, a young craftsman in wood,
whose story gives the book a unity. These both understand
the secrets of nature ; but all the humans are a mere background
to the life of the Wildings.

This book is suitable for all readers young and old; but in
the opinion of the reviewer it should not be put hastily into the
hands of a very sensitive child, for whom some of the descriptions
might prove too painful. The work is clearly intended for the
mature reader. C. M. KNIGHT.

Hedge—Folk in Twilight. By Phyllis Kelway. Pp. I78.
Illustrated. (Longmans, Green & Co.,1936.) 6/—.

Miss Kelway records with imagination, humour and sympathy
her observations of some of the little creatures and birds she
has kept in captivity—the dormouse, the hedgehog, the long-
tailed ﬁeld mouse, the shrew, the barn owl and the heron.
These studies include not only the appearance, food and habits
but also something of the intelligence and temperament of the
subjects. Miss Kelway is an alert naturalist and has the power
of presenting her little animals to the reader living and individual ;
she also gives us a good deal of information about methods of

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

138 THE ANIMAL YEAR BOOK

the capture of specimens for observation and preparation of
their dwelling-place and the foods which they prefer. All
nature lovers will delight to possess this book, which is illustrated
by clever and charming photographs by the author; but in the
opinion of the reviewer it is not a book to be put into the hands
of children. Miss Kelway too often records her own crude ways
of capturing and keeping captive various little creatures in her
childhood. She, of course, realises and condemns the cruelty
often inﬂicted in ignorance in those days, but it is a pity she felt
it worth while to write about them and thereby spoil her book
for the schoolroom ; for apart from these reminiscences it

would have made a delightful present to a child.
_ C. M. KNIGHT.

A Key to the Countryside. By lWarcus Woodward. Pp. 197.
(BlaCkie & Sons, 1934.) 5 /—.

This book is one of the “ Key” series and the Key to the
Countryside the author ﬁnds “ in my harte and in my thinkyng ” ;
“ the countryside is a place away from men and towns ” and
“ has a thousand doors.” Mr. Woodward has planned his book
with a chapter to each month of the year——a form which makes it
handy for the amateur ﬁeld naturalist. There is a great deal of
detailed information‘ on birds, bird—watching and migration, and
hardly less on the animal life of the countryside—hares, otters,
squirrels, hedgehogs, badgers, foxes, rabbits, etc. ; and on
insects——wasps and their usefulness, dragon-ﬂies, glow-worms,
beetles, etc. The young townsman who is interested in bird
and wild animal life will ﬁnd it worth while to take this little
book with him when he is able to get away into the country
at any time of the year; it will give him some indication of
what to look for. Mr. Woodward deals brieﬂy with and expresses
his opinion on some naturalist problems such as hibernation,
the strange ways of the cuckoo, why lambs leap so high, etc., and
he touches on some economic problems with sound judgment;
for instance, the red and grey squirrels and the depredations
especially of the grey (herein he reminds us too that squirrels are
very often “ foresters,” for the nuts which they store and forget
grow into trees); he stoutly defends the little owl, whose
destruction of mice and other small rodents and beetles of all
kinds far outweighs any slight harm he may do. People who are
looking for strange pets will ﬁnd in this book suggestions that
hedgehogs, cormorants, and some snakes can be suﬂiciently
tamed to become charming pets.

Mr. Woodward’s book is far removed from propaganda of any
kind, yet he cannot help reﬂecting on the short life to which

 

 




 

BOOK REVIEWS 139

“ the shooting ” condemns countless young partridges (he
gives us a charming picture of the life and ways of these birds) ;
or on the injustice of the gamekeeper’s idea of “ vermin ” ;
nor does he fail to remind us of an obvious thing, which we are
inclined to forget, that the berries of holly, mistletoe and ivy are
the winter food of birds.

This is a lovely book full. of sympathy with as well as informa-
tion on wild life. An index would have enhanced its usefulness
to the young ﬁeld naturalist. C. M. KNIGHT.

Nature in Britain. By various authors. Introduced. by Henry
Williamson. Pp. 250. Illustrated. (B. T. Batsford, 1936.)
5/—- ‘

“ If it were not for the mass—production of the motor car, this
book, with its great range of subject and illustrated by over a
hundred photographs, would not be possible at such a low price.”
Let us cease to “ deplore the multiplication of the swift rubber
wheel,” if the effect is, directly or indirectly, to create an interest
in the countryside and to provide us with literature such as this
delightful introduction to the fauna and ﬂora of England, Scot-
land, and Wales. Miss Frances Pitt, who “ probably knows as
much about English animals as anyone living outside a museum,”
opens the symposium with a chapter on “ Animal Life ” ; Mr.
Seton Gordon, “really the Bird Man of Britain,” writes of
“ Bird Life ” ; lVIr. E. G. Boulenger, the Director of the London
Zoo Aquarium, contributes two chapters on “ Reptiles and
Amphibians,” and “ Pond and Stream Life ” ; Mr. L. C.
Bushby, also of the London Zoo, writes on “Insect Life ”;
Mr. R. St. Barbe Baker, founder of the Men of the Trees
Society, devotes forty—seven fascinating pages to “ Tree and
Shrub Life ” ; and Robert and Edward Gathorne—Hardy
complete the survey with chapters on “ Flower-and Plant Life ”
and “ Fungi.” These names are guarantees of the book’s
value and interest, and a sense of unity is imparted to it by the
enthusiasm, which keeps breaking in, and by the common
freedom with which the authors have “ escaped from the idiom
of science or pseudo-science.” Mr. Henry Williamson, in a
compere’s introduction, full of anecdotal wisdom, declares that
“ human beings are happy only when they are animals.”

S. G. WEST.

Rural Roundabout. By Hockley Clarke. Pp. 199. Illustrated.
(Allman 85 Son, 1936.) 3/6.

This book is a collection of the articles by the author which
have appeared in various newspapers and magazines. Each is

10

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

6W
a lid
‘Ml‘illi
WW
EH 1 M

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

I40 THE ANIMAL YEAR BOOK

a brief picture, little more than a thumbnail sketch of a creature
or scene of country life which occurred to the writer at the
moment. Hence we have not only accounts of birds and wild
life and domestic animals such as lambs, ducks, etc., but pictures
of country folk in their Maypole dance, their autumn festivity,
their amusing Village cricket or their daily occupation. The
sketches are slight, but the book is charming and often amusing
reading. We are glad that Mr. Hockley Clarke has a word to
say about the stupidity of the persecution of so harmless a
creature as the badger and the arrant folly of the wholesale
murder of young rooks, which are far more the farmer’s friend
than enemy. Mr. Hockley Clarke has untiring sympathy with
all wild life. How few of the rest of us have ever realised
what the mowing of a hayﬁeld means to the hosts of birds and
small animals who have gathered there and made their homes
through the long months when it was untouched !

This book is illustrated by delightful little wood engravings
and has a good index. C. M. KNIGHT.

Enigmas of Natural History. ByE. L. Grant Watson. Pp. 140.
Illustrated. (The Cresset Press, Ltd. ,.London) 6/-

Mr. Grant Watson’s book is beautifully printed and illustrated,
so that it is a pleasure to handle, and it is a very suitable volume
to give to any young person with a bent towards natural history.
Twenty—four problems are propounded and the known facts
are lucidly described, and'then the author goes on to indicate
possible lines of biological thought along which solutions may
be reached. It is here that some readers might wish to join
issue with him, but the questions raised ale too large to be dealt
with in a short review. The stimulating quality of the book is
its greatest asset. H. E. BARGMANN.

Birds in the Wilderness. Adventures of an Ornithologist. By
George Miksch Sutton. Pp. 200. Illustrated. (The
Macmillan Company, New York.) I5/—.

The author observes in the foreword that “ some ornitholo-
gists are content with trays of stuffed specimens over which they
write profound taxonomic treatises” or they are “perfectly
happy with a pile of bird bones in front of them, or a heap of
pickled birds’ stomachs.” Others are “ not quite happy unless
they are ‘ on the go.’ They pack ﬁeld equipment with a rush

. . and having disappeared for a six months’ stretch they
return with books full of notes, boxes full of specimens and heads
full of plans.” The author does not say what he did with his
own specimens, but his life was made interesting and happy by

 




 

BOOK REVIEWS ' 141

‘€

comings and goings in quest of those feathered beings called
birds.” From childhood he was interested in birds, and learned
to skin them at the age of thirteen. He seems to have been
everlastingly handling birds or animals, sometimes killing them
with kindness. He has a good deal to say about his experiences
and adventures with a Turkey Vulture, Screech Owls, and Road
Runners, and it was an article on the last 111 “ Bird— lore, ” illus-
trated by himself, that led to his friendship with the great bird
and animal artist Louis Agassiz F uertes, from whom he learned
the importance of light and shade in bird—painting. In 1920
he went on his ﬁrst scientiﬁc expedition along the Labrador
coast with Mr. Tod, Curator of Birds at the Carnegie Museum
of Pittsburgh. A short time afterwards he met Mr. John
Bonner Semple and accompanied him on an expedition to James
Bay for the purpose of collecting material for a “ habitat-group ”
of the Blue Goose for the Carnegie lVIuseum. In 1924 he
journeyed with his friend Semple to Gator Lake, Southern
Florida, where they camped, observed birds and enjoyed much
grape-fruit. Chapters on Ravens and Owls are followed by the
most important chapter in the book, which gives an account of
the discovery by himself, Mr. Semple and two companions of
the nesting site of Harris’s Sparrow, in June, 1931. “It
inhabits the middle part of North America, nesting in the
stunted spruce woods at the edge of the Barren Grounds,
migrating across south central Canada and our mid-western
states, and wintering in Kansas, Oklahoma, and Texas.” After
they had been a week in the Churchill region a Canadian party
of ornithologists arrived and an undigniﬁed struggle began for
the honour of being the ﬁrst to discover the eggs of Harris’s
Sparrow. It ultimately fell to the author.

In the story of his wide travels in America and Canada he has
much to say about many birds, but the bulk of the book is rather
about its sub-title, “ Adventures of an Ornithologist.” It
concludes with an epilogue “ Our Old Apple Tree,” a charming
bit of writing by a man whose interests are in nature. It seems
that the presence in the wilds of ornithologists must at times
have been little less than a scourge, but they were “ interested
and happy ” with their guns and skinning apparatus, and were
apparently engaged solely on supplying the needs of a public
museum. D. A. MACALISTER.

A Bird Diary. By Godfrey Harrison. Pp. I 52. Illustrated.
(J. M. Dent&Co.1,9.36) 6/—.

This book is unique in presentation in that it is written in
diary form, with a fresh start each day as far as possible, and then

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

I42 THE ANIMAL YEAR BOOK

ﬁnished off with siX pages of notes, which either conﬁrm or
correct the author’s ﬁrst impressions. The author’s observations
were made mostly in the south of England and on the East Coast
over an eighteen months’ period during 1933—34. The book
is delightfully written‘and tempted me, when touring on holiday
last year, to visit some of the places mentioned by the author.
I was in no way disappointed. Mr. Harrison is a keen and
accurate observer, has an eye for colour and recognises tone in
bird song as apart from phrases—not, I think, a very common
attribute amongst bird lovers.

Surprisingly enough, as I at ﬁrst thought, he confesses to a
memory difﬁculty in distinguishing between thrushes’ and black—
birds’ nests, until I remembered that I, also, never feel quite
sure which are house martins and which sand martins on the
wing, such tricks does memory play.

The wood-cut illustrations are by Robert Gibbings, the
illustrator of Lord Grey’s “ The Charm of Birds.” The price
seems high for so small a book, but it is to be hoped that it will
meet with such well-deserved success that a reprint at a lower

price will bring it within reach of a larger circle of readers.
A. O. RownEN.

Birds and T heir Young. By T. A. Coward. Pp. 151. Illus-
trated. (Gay 8; Hancock, I923.) 6/—. ..

This is a book on British birds which should be a joy to every
bird lover to possess, and forms a ﬁtting sequel to the same author’s
much-thumbed pocket volume “ The Birds of the British Isles
and their Eggs.” The present volume, in quarto size, is
beautifully produced both as regards letterpress and the
delightful full-page illustrations, mostly coloured, by the well-
known artist Roland Green.

Its chapters deal in. turn with nests, eggs, the nestlings,
behaviour of the young and the parents, education of the young,
adolescence and maturity, while the ﬁnal chapter completes the
circle with courtship and display.

Mr. Coward’s philosophical attitude, born of a life-long study
of a subject of which his knowledge is probably unequalled, his
open mind and absence of dogmatism, the recognition that there
is still much to be learnt about birds, make him a writer whom
it is a delight to read and whose statements are worthy of
acceptance. His death in 1933 deprived us of one of our most
appreciated ornithologists.

Mr. Coward had no good opinion of adult egg collectors,
though sympathetic to the human boy’s temporary craze for
collecting, out of which fortunately he generally grows. He

 

 




 

 

BOOK REVIEWS I43

says truly, “The egg has much to teach and we have much to
learn, but the sooner we realise that we can learn without
destroying, the better. The egg in its natural setting, the nest,
is the best teacher.”

The opportunity of getting this book at its reduced price
should not be missed. A. O. ROWDEN.

England’s Birds. By W. K. Richmond. Pp. 294. Illustrated.
(Faber 8: Faber, 1936.) 10/6.

This should be a satisfying book alike to the experienced,
bird—watcher and to those who, though not intimate with the
subject, nevertheless enjoy a good nature book. The former
will probably ﬁnd his knowledge augmented by seeing some of
his familiar birds from a fresh angle.

The book is not, as might hastily be assumed from its title,
a technical description of our native birds, but the harvest of an
experienced naturalist’s close observation and thought upon
selected species under varying conditions. If one began to quote
passages from the book it would be difﬁcult to know where to
leave off, so I. refrain and recommend you all to read it for
yourselves.

The thirty—nine photographs used in illustration are, as might
be expected from the well—known nature photographers who
contribute, excellent. A. O. ROWDEN.

A Pocket Book of British Birds. Edited by Chas. A Hall,
F.R.M.S. Pp. 125. Illustrated. (A. 85 C. Black, 1936.)

5/—-

This book claims to ﬁll a demand from “ ﬁeld naturalists,
ramblers, hikers, motorists, etc.” The ﬁrst-named, if serious,
would hardly be content. Sixty—three species are selected for
about a’one-page description of each accompanied by a coloured
illustration used from Bonhotes’ “ Birds of Britain.” In most
cases the markings of the birds seem to me to be over accentuated
and the colours too brilliant. If the reader will allow for this
when seeking to identify birds, he will no doubt ﬁnd the book
reasonably useful so far as it goes. This reservation does not
apply to the two plates illustratingeggs. They are excellent.
A book of. this kind is bound to be limited in its scope, but if it
arouses interest in the novice and creates a desire for fuller
knowledge, it will have served its purpose. It is, however, a
tantalising and inherent feature of books such as these that one so

often fails to ﬁnd therein the species one seeks to identify.
A. O. ROWDEN.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

144 THE ANIMAL YEAR BOOK

Wild Birds at Home. By Francis Hobart Herrick. Pp. 345.
(D. Appleton Century Co., New York and London, 1935.)
I5/—.

Professor Herrick packs into this book an immense amount of
detailed information derived from painstaking observations of
the period of mating and rearing of the young of a number of
North American birds, through the medium of a bird-watcher’s
tent, a tool which he claims to be indispensable. The book is
profusely illustrated with photographs taken by this means.

Professor Herrick also thoughtfully provides in the Appendix
exact descriptions of the tents and cameras he has used. This
chapter should be deﬁnitely useful even to those who already
know something about the subject, and invaluable to the novice.
The expensive steel tower used for the photography of eagles’
nests is perhaps typically American and hardly likely to be
imitated in this country.

The whole book is a monument to hard work and thoroughness
on the part of the author and should be stimulating to any reader,
whether bird-minded or not. The last chapter on “ Life and
Instinct,” coming from the pen of one who was primarily a
Professor of Biology before he “ took to birds,” provides much
food for thought. A. O. ROWDEN.

Birds and the Sea. By Frances Pitt. Pp. 187. Illustrated.
(Longmans, Green & Co., 1935.) 6/—-.

lVIiss Frances Pitt is well known to a wide circle as an expert
and versatile nature photographer and a favourite popular
writer.

This book takes us in turn to the sand—banks of the Wash,
the coast of Solway Firth, the famous bird sanctuary of Raven-
glass, then to the Welsh coast for the Islands of Ramsay,
Grassholm, Skokholm, and Skomer, and then northwards again
to the Farne Islands and the Orkneys. For each place lVIiss
Pitt gives an account of the characteristic birds seen at the time
of optimum interest. So we meet the pink-footed geese,
gannets, oystercatchers, black-headed gulls, shearwaters, storm
petrels, eider ducks, guillemots, kittiwakes, terns, puﬁ‘ins,
red-necked phalaropes and ravens in due course, while the
Orkney voles and seals provide digression from the main subject.
Miss Pitt supports the increasing body of instructed opinion
which holds that the seal’s pursuit of its natural food is not
adverse to the ﬁshing industry, and she adds her testimony to
the tortureinﬂicted on sea birds by the oil menace. In a book
of unﬂagging interest from cover to cover, perhaps the most
interesting chapter is that on the Manx shearwater.

A. O. RownEN.




BOOK REVIEWS I45

Bird Wonders of Australia. By A. H. Chisholm. Pp. 299.
Illustrated. (Angus 85 Watson, Ltd., Sydney, 1935.
Australian Book Co., 37 Great Russell Street, W.C.I.)
6 /—. .

This is the second edition of a book which obviously must
have met with success in Australia. The purely British bird-
lover is necessarily at some disadvantage in appraising the
merits of such a work, and so naturally he looks at the author’s
credentials. Hence we ﬁnd that Mr. Chisholm is a journalist—
naturalist on the staff of the Melbourne Argus, and is the author
of at least three previous works on birds, and is accepted in
Australia as a man who knows his subject.

Some remarkable and almost incredible instances of Australian
bird behaviour are recorded, instances which have no parallel
in this country and, therefore, excite the reader’s wonder. On
the other hand, there are some very interesting parallels to the
life histories of some of our own birds. Parrots and cockatoos,
as may be expected, loom large in the book. Many birds are great
mimics both of other birds’ songs and of all sorts of extraneous
sounds, and provide the same popular interest to broadcasting
as does the nightingale’s song in this country. Some very
interesting accounts of the interdependence of some birds and
insects are given.

A sidelight on bird protection is instanced by a reference to
the lyre—birds. In Sydney in 1907 it was common to see quite
a number of hawkers with baskets containing ﬁfty or more male
lyre-birds’ tails for sale. In 1934 the ﬁrst prosecution which
arose after several years’ protection was instituted. The
offender was promptly ﬁned the maximum penalty of ,6 5 and
the Government intimated that, if necessary, more severe
penalties would be legalised. No nonsense there! Lenient
British magistrates, please note !

The book is adequately illustrated with the assistance of several
Australian bird-photographers. A. O. ROWDEN.

All About Reptiles and Batmchians. By W. S. Berridge, F.Z.S.
Pp. 271. Illustrated. (George G. Harrap & Co., Ltd.,
193+) 7/6-

The book is light in hand and the excellent print adds to the
pleasure of reading Mr. Berridge’s descriptions of the structures
and habits of the world’s reptiles, frogs, etc. It is a compilation
which gives only the kind of information likely to interest the
general reader, and very interesting he will ﬁnd it. Quotations
from early works on natural history and allusions to absurd
beliefs of the credulous could have been omitted with advantage

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

146 THE ANIMAL YEAR BOOK

to the book, though they serve a useful purpose in reminding us
that even present—day knowledge is far from perfect. The list
of illustrations is presented in alphabetical order of the names of
the creatures depicted, and this compensates for the inclusion
of several plates in chapters to which they do not belong. Six
of the twenty-four chapters are devoted to snakes, pythons and
boas, concluding with a discussion of the Loch Ness Monster,
a subject which appears too frequently in recent works of this
class. There are chapters on tortoises, terrapins and turtles.
The tuatera, a living fossil, has a chapter to itself, followed by
accounts of lizards, monitors, teguexins and iguanas; skinks
and geckos ; chameleons ; crocodiles and alligators ; frogs and
toads ; salamanders ; newts ; limbless batrachians ; and a ﬁnal
chapter on reptiles as pets.

A refreshing feature of the book is its attitude of tolerance
towards lowly creatures where the safety of man is not deﬁnitely
threatened by poisonous species. If civilisation carries with it
any moral responsibility at all for the well-being of animals, the
lower they are in the scale of creation the greater the need for
the exercise of intelligence in dealing with them. Nor does it
seem reasonable to persecute or exterminate a race of animals
because occasionally a few people suffer as a result of their own
rashness or stupidity. The following affair, reported in T he
Times of July 23rd, 1936, headed “ Snake causes Ferry Disaster,”
illustrates the kind of danger for which people have only them—
selves to blame : “ A snake attempting to crawl into a crowded
ferry—boat caused a disaster on the Ramganga River, in the
United Provinces. The frightened passengers crowded to one
side of the ferry, which capsised. Of about sixty passengers
only ten were saved.”

Mr. Berridge tells us that 2,500,000 snake skins were exported
from India alone in 1932, and nearly as many from the Dutch
East Indies, to supply the demands of fashion, and if the trade
continues there will be a real danger of extinction of certain

quite harmless species. In Africa the reticulated pythons are -

also diminishing in numbers for the same reason, and the
Government of Nyasaland has had to establish a reserve to
save them from persecution. What Mr. Berridge tells of the
traﬂic in edible delicacies obtained from tortoises, terrapins and
turtles ought to make man blush for his appetite indulged at
the cost of barbarities. The giant tortoise has only been saved
from extinction by ofﬁcial intervention, the terrapins are in
danger of being exterminated at no remote date, while the
different species of turtle suffer molestation in various ways for
the sake of the shell or food delicacies they provide. “ Some Of
the turtles are netted, speared or caught with a baited hook, but

</ a

‘19

i8




BOOK REVIEWS 147

the majority are captured when they come ashore for the purpose
of laying their eggs. Unfortunately they are not always allowed
to lay their eggs before they are caught, a short-sighted practice
that naturally puts a great check upon their rate of increase.”

The reader is led to reﬂect on the fate of the world’s fauna, and
especially of reptiles and similar creatures under pressure of
colonisation of the wilds. It is apparent that the white man’s
energy in all parts of the globe carries with it destruction of
fauna, and the scattering of the aboriginal races of man, thus
tending to produce a uniform reﬂection of European conditions
and ways of living. The last phase in the levelling process is
remote, but we should consider ourselves fortunate that our
brief span on earth has come at an interesting period while much
of the fauna remains in its natural state. It is to be hoped that
before it is too late the same energy will be employed in
establishing adequate reserves for all kinds of animals in their
natural habitats, and that far-seeing scientiﬁc control will be
exercised by societies and governments to safeguard the con—
tinuance of all species for the enjoyment of ourselves and our
descendants. The Kruger National Park and great national
parks in America and elsewhere are territory set apart for the
preservation of the more showy mammals, but we have yet to
hear of the establishment in India and the tropics generally of
preserves for reptiles and other lowly creatures.

D. A. MACALISTER.

Insect Wonders of Australia. By Keith C. McKeown. Pp. 252.
Illustrated. (Angus 8: Robertson, Ltd., Sydney, 1936.)
6/—- .

Uniform with Alec H. Chisholm’s “ Bird Wonders of Australia,”
now in its second edition, Mr. McKeown’s book contains graphic
accounts of the life—cycles of several families of insects whose
evolution in Australia has developed in them habits of absorbing
interest. The minor horrors of life may not strike the general
reader as an attractive subject, since his experiences have entailed
irritation in a hundred ways coupled with scratching and arm-
waving on hot days, yet in the depths of an easy chair the insects
may be forgiven in the fascination and thrills which this excellent
book about them provides. The book touches only the fringe
of a vast ﬁeld awaiting systematic investigation, but it is extremely
well written and there is material enough in it to enable the
amateur to meet the specialist on common ground, and to
appreciate the nature of his work. Man may be excused for not
tolerating some insects, but in return must recognise the debt
he owes to others for certain products, and even if they served

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

148 THE ANIMAL YEAR BOOK

no useful purpose the insects at least provide material for
intellectual recreation, and country life is the gayer and brighter
by the colours and sounds of nature’s orchestra.

Adequate accounts are given of ants and their subject species,
of bees, wasps, and their hosts and parasites, ﬁg-wasps, ﬁreﬂies
and glow-worms, butterﬂies and moths, white ants, stick- and
leaf-insects, grasshoppers and crickets, cicada and their assassins,
bugs, and gall-makers. There are also chapters on the ﬂight
of insects, courtship, life in the trees, and insects as food of the
aborigines. The opening chapter admirably epitomises the
insect world from various angles, and remarks on the natural
factors which, acting on the instincts through the senses, are
embraced by the general term tropism. Brightness or dullness
of colouring, protective mimicry and so on raise questions
which are plausibly answered by the author. The hall-mark of
good conduct in some insect families is willingness to be
sacriﬁced for the continuity of the race. Occasionally there is a
savour of sadism, as when the female praying—mantis Clasps her
spouseto her breast and then eats him. One wonders if he

knew the price he would have to pay for the privilege !
. ' D. A. MACALISTER.

Tropical Fishes as Pets. By Christopher W. Coates. Pp. 226.
Illustrated. (Jonathan Cape, 1934.) 7/6.

This book can be recommended to three different classes of
readers : those who would like to take up this new hobby ; those
who are fond of Visiting the aquarium at the Regent’s Park Zoo
or elsewhere and wish to learn a little more of some of the
specimens which they admire; and those who are collecting
information about the instincts, habits and intelligence of various
living creatures.

We infer, however, from Mr. Coates’ book that the hobby of
keeping tropical ﬁshes as pets is not so new as some may imagine.
There appearsto be quite a deﬁnite trade in these tropical
ﬁshes with exporters at many ports, who employ natives regularly
to catch the specimens? The author tells about the transport
of these delicate ﬁshes and the diﬂiculties of keeping the water
oxygenated and in suitable condition, and in the invariable sea—
sickness of ﬁshes when carried by sea !

We learn from this book most of the practical. details of
assembling an aquarium—the kind and size. of tanks, the nature
and temperature of the water, the sand and plants, the scavengers
necessary, the light and sunlight desirable, etc., as well as the
diet for the various species of tropical ﬁshes, the preservation
of their health and their treatment in illness. We are reminded,

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

BOOK REVIEWS 149

however, that the aquarist must have “ ﬁsh-sense ”—-~something
indeﬁnable and presumably like the “ green ﬁngers ” of the
successful gardener.

Mr. Coates’ book is a useful work of reference for the various
_ species of fresh-water tropical ﬁshes—ﬁshes gentle, sociable and

suitable for the community tank, ﬁshes ﬁerce, murderous or to
be kept solitary. He describes in detail their native habitat,
appearance and many various beautiful colours and colour
combinations, their movements and attitudes in the water; the
methods of distinguishing the sexes in various species; their
breeding habits, spawning, etc. We read many strange and
interesting facts ; for instance, of ﬁshes that care for their young
with the solicitude of a bird or mammal; of ﬁshes that store
the eggs and sometimes even the young in their mouths and
themselves in the meantime become attenuated with fasting;
of ﬁshes that build nests; of ﬁshes whose eggs are left to the
ﬁerce paternal care of the male, after he has driven off or
devoured the female; of the Siamese Fighting Fish, exploited
in some parts of the East for the excitement of the matches,
which are staged for him, and the betting ; and of many others
equally strange.

The book is illustrated by some good pictures.

C. M. KNIGHT.

O

Tropical Fishes and Home Aquaria. By Alfred Morgan. Pp.
254. Illustrated. (Rich&Cowan, 1936.) 8/6.

Like the preceding, this book is also written by an American
with great enthusiasm for and a very clear understanding of his
particular hobby. Anybody without previous experience, who
wishes to take up this hobby, would do well to purchase and
study and keep at hand as a text-book “Tropical Fishes and
Home Aquaria.” The author, with the greatest possible clarity,
deals with and illustrates with diagrams all the details of the
aquarium and its equipment—the various kinds and sizes of
tanks, the water, plants, scavengers, various implements required,
the food, breeding of ﬁsh both viviparous and egg-layers, preven-
tion of illness among the ﬁshes, symptoms of sickness and the
treatment of various ailments. This work will certainly save the
novice much time and money as well as disappointment. Mr.
Morgan treats in great detail the various species which are suitable
for the beginner; each variety is described and discussed and
illustrated by a sketch or a photograph, and its method of
breeding and the necessary equipment, and the protection of
the young from the cannibalism of their parents. In a later
chapter he deals suitably with rarer and more expensive species

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ISO THE ANIMAL YEAR BOOK

suitable for the more advanced aquarist; selective breeding is
also touched on.

“ Tropical Fishes and Home Aquaria ” is, however, more than
a mere text-book ; it is really interesting reading. The author
is aware that the hobby can be an intelligent observation of the
processes of nature and entails some elementary knowledge of
chemistry and anatomy, while for those Who are less scientiﬁc
it must bring joy in the beauty of colour in the little ﬁshes and
the possibility of producing a new specimen.

This book is illustrated by many very clear diagrams and
excellent photographs. It has an appendix on the meaning of
the scientiﬁc names of tropical ﬁshes, a directory of aquarium
societies in the author’s own country and Canada, and a good
index. C. M. KNIGHT.

Whalemen Adventurers. By W. J. Dakin, D.Sc., F.Z.S., Pro-
fessor of Zoology, University of Sydney. Pp. 249. (Angus
& Robertson, Sydney.) I 5 /—.

A work of AI quality. Professor Dakin has done a great
service in adding to our knowledge many facts of intense interest
in the history of whaling in Australasian waters from the early days
to modern times. Here is true history, and that of not so very
long ago, of one’s fellow man—a history of heroism and depravity,
success and failure, love and cannibalism, endurance and murder
which leaves very mixed feelings in the mind whether to admire
or despise, to love or to hate, the maritime actors. To many
it will be an eye-opener, and even to those who have studied the
history of whaling in other waters it is a fascinating story of
adventure. The early history of whaling in all seas illustrates
the depths of degradation to which human beings can descend,
as it does the heights of endurance to which they can ascend, in
the scramble for lucre, even though that lucre be squandered at
the journey’s end in debauchery and drunkenness. The
searching of records, the perusal of numerous logs of illiterate
skippers, the interviews with veterans and the visiting of sites
of many of the old whaling shore-stations have been the work
of years for the author, who is interested in nautical adventure
and possesses a profound knowledge of human nature.

Some habits of the sperm whale, the hump-back and the
southern right whale, and of their enemy the killer whale, make
interesting reading to the naturalist, as also the lives of the Maoris
and other dwellers in the Paciﬁc Islands do to the ethnologist.
The author discusses the ships, the equipment, the methods of
whale capture and the treatment of the catch in an easy and oft-
times humorous vein, and this in association with the history

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

BOOK REVIEWS 1 51

of whaling in a district so little dwelt upon in previous works on
the subject. The interesting relations which bind the history
of Australia and New Zealand with the history of whaling and the
life of the Whaler are clearly shown.

All eras of whaling are discussed from 1790 to modern times.
The book contains some excellent photographic illustrations,
whilst the frontispiece, “ The Final Flurry,” and another picture
facing p. 108, are taken from famous paintings by the brush
of the great sea painter, Sir Oswald Brierly, who as a young man
saw much active whaling at sea, resided with the whaling com—
munity for four years at Twofold Bay, was afterwards taken up
by Queen Victoria, made a painting of a naval review at Spithead,
was knighted, and died “ Marine Painter to her Majesty the
Queen” in London in 1894. A. H. B. KIRKMAN.

A Natural History of the Seas. By E. G. Boulenger. Pp. 215.
Illustrated. (Duckworth, 193 5.) 7/6.

This book may be regarded as an extension into wider spheres
of Mr. Boulenger’s other work “ The Aquarium Book.” As
Director of the Zoological Society’s aquarium he must have
acquired unique knowledge of the aspect of the subject most
likely to appeal to general readers. The style throughout is
light and masterly, giving graphic accounts of the wonders,
beauties and horrors of the deep and of the shores. The book
is a marvel of compression providing instruction without tears,
and it shows commendable judgment and restraint in outlining
the principal characteristics of species, and the purposes of
specialised limbs and organs. An early impression formed by
the reader will be that very few of the marine creatures are
vegetarians, as they all seem destined to become food in the
long run. This will suggest that there is a marvellous economy
of energy in biochemical reactions contingent with slow oxidation.
Does it not also suggest the ﬁerce struggle to exist in a world
of parasites and predatory creatures, and the inﬁnite variety of
means for attack and defence or escape P The scope of the book
is best indicated by the subjects of the chapters : “ Protozoa,”

“Polyps,” “Crustaceans,” “Echinoderms,” “Worms and
Polyzoa,” “ Molluscs,” “ Tunicates and Lancelets,” “ F1shes,”
“ Reptiles,” “ Mammals,” and “ Sea Monsters,” including the

Loch Ness Monster. The chapter on ﬁshes is an excellent
digest of modern knowledge, while that on mammals comments
forcibly on the tragic fate of whales and dugongs through the
needs and ruthlessness of man: “Modern whaling methods

. are fast ushering the world’s largest mammals into the ranks
of the extinct, man having devised means of slaughter far

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

I 52 THE ANIMAL YEAR BOOK

transcending the worst efforts of any natural foe. The only
other purely aquatic mammals, the Dugong and Manatee or
Siren, seem to be on the way towards sharing the whale’s fate.”
The senseless shooting of the grey or Atlantic seal which is.
taking place on our own shores in the name of sport makes it
diﬂicult for Englishmen to condemn the equally senseless
destruction of the dugong at the antipodes. Although there
are many illustrations in the book they are so good that a larger
number would not have been too many. L. R. Brightwell’s
simple sketches have caught the characters of his subjects, and
detail is sufﬁciently suggested by the use of an expressive handling
of line. D. A. MACALISTER.

T he Understanding of a Dog. By Lt.-Col. G. H. Badcock.
Pp. 254. Illustrated. (HerbertJenkins, Ltd., 1935.) 3/6.

Col. Badcock is well known as a dog-breeder and trainer of
difﬁcult dogs. As would be expected from his long experience,
this book contains a good deal of practical information for owners
of dogs; his observation also enables him to say much that is
useful about the mind and intelligence of dogs. The author
deals with the management of kennels, the training of difﬁcult
dogs with full notes on the various breeds—their temperaments,
dispositions, peculiar difﬁculties; he has, too, not a few words
to say about the defects of some owners of dogs! The pro-
spective dog-owner as well as the tiro among professional breeders
will ﬁnd this book useful in the choice of a suitable breed, in the
methods of training the young dog and in the practical detail
of caring for the eyes, teeth, ears and skin of the dog or treating
simple cases of hysteria. In the hints on training we are glad
to read the repeated insistence on the understanding of the
mind of the dog and the uselessness of whipping and the need
for patience and an enthusiastic attitude. “ Never let a dog
get bored,” says Col. Badcock.

All owners of dogs will ﬁnd this book a useful possession,
while those whose dogs seem to be “ difﬁcult ” will learn much
from it for the solution of their problem. The Rt. Hon. Frances
Countess of Warwick has written a delightful little preface to
this book, which is illustrated by some amusing little sketch—
drawings. C. M. KNIGHT.

Dog Heroes._ By Peter Shaw Baker. Pp. 250. Illustrated.
(Ward, Lock 8: Co., Ltd., 1935.) 5/—.

One of the most interesting paragraphs of the book occurs
in Mr. Shaw Baker’s Introduction. After discussing the
devotion of dogs to their owners and also their fondness for

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

BOOK REVIEWS 1 53

children, he considers the attitude of mind of St. Francis, who
never lost the child-like feeling that all creatures were his
companions, and wishes that this sense were stronger in all of us.
“ In the future development of humane education will be found
the solution of many of the international problems so evident
to-day. When once the mind grasps man’s true kinship with
the animal creation, and the grand unity of Life, the need for
absolute justice as between man and man as well as between
man and beast is seen as an indisputable necessity ” (p. I4).

“ Dog Heroes ” contains the authentic stories of brave actions
carried out by all types of dogs, including Collies, Airedales,
Bull-terriers, Alsatians, and St. Bernards. Brave dogs are to
be found everywhere, but these are especially brave ones who
have merited inclusion in the Roll of Honour of the League of
Kindness to Animals. They each possess a “V.C. Collar.”
Having once accepted their masters, all these dogs have shown
complete selﬂessness, even to the giving up of their own lives.

Whether the process of the dog’s mind when he perceives
danger, either to himself or to his master, is instinctive or
reasoned is a problem for the experts to solve, but the fact
remains that through the action of these thirty—six dogs alone
many humans have been saved from death. Without any
special training the dogs rescued their owners and children from
ﬁre, drowning, other infuriated animals and snakes.

The trained dogs described are St. Bernards and the guardians
of blind men. The Alsatians which guide their masters through
trafﬁc have amazing responsibilities and they carry out their
task successfully, provided that the blind men have complete
faith in them. The story of their work will, it is hoped, en-
courage the public to support the one training school in England
for guide-dogs.

Mr. Shaw Baker does not merely recount the brave deeds,
but rebuilds the actual personalities of the different dogs and
provides valuable material for students of dog psychology, as
well as delightful and graphic stories.

The book is enhanced by the beautiful colour plates by
Mrs. G. Shaw Baker. C. E. HURREN.

Stripey the Badger. By Jane Thornycroft. Pp. 254. Illus-
trated. (George G. Harrap 8: Co., Ltd., 1936.) 3/6.

A badger’s life can provide thrilling material for a story
Without introducing impossibilities, and there may be much of
it which will arouse indignation at the treatment he often receives
from a type of man who regards him as of no value or interest
and therefore a creature to be misused or destroyed. Much of

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

“\
:52.

 

 

 

 

154. THE ANIMAL YEAR BOOK

our vanishing wild-life is worth preserving if for no higher
morive than the pleasure it adds to country life, even at the
expense of a little trouble or sacriﬁce of self-interests. The
badger is the least harmful of our native species, loving a life of
peace and being a gleaner rather than a hunter. The difficulties
confronting him in his daily struggle for food in districts where
his natural haunts are being taken in by man sometimes compel
him to raid fowl—houses, and it seems extraordinary that so
many Englishmen brought up in the best traditions of fair play
should ﬁnd it diﬂicult to extend generous tolerance when
occasional loss is incurred by a creature made desperate through
hunger. Man with his superior intellectual endowment should
treat the lower animals better than they treat each other. The
strength of the badger and his magnificent courage caused
him to be used for baiting, a disgusting sport in which men

.set terrier after terrier on him until, still unyielding, he sinks

with exhaustion. Admiration for this heroic trait in his
character will be mixed with pity that it should ever be tested.
Persecution of our English bear down the ages taught him
to be nocturnal in his habits and to seek a home well hidden
from man. Charming accounts of badgers have been published
in recent years (e.g. “Diana my Badger,” by Frances Pitt),
but Miss Thornycroft’s book is in the form of an autobiography
revealing his environment, thoughts and feelings. Information
on this living aspect of natural history lags behind the knowledge
of pelts and bones, but many will value it more highly as a
subject for man’s investigation and intellectual recreation. It
is to be regretted that Miss Thornycroft records the erroneous
opinion of kestrels held by Stripey’s mother (p. 69). The
kestrel is or should be protected everywhere, and it is only
killed by the most ignorant of gamekeepers.

A publisher’s note on the jacket describes it as “ a new animal
book for children,” but surely this is not intended to prevent
their elders from enjoying it and having their sympathy for
animals quickened. One forgets that the characters are
animals, because the perils of. a badger’s life are as exciting
as stories of human adventure. In reading the account Of
Stripey’s escape from a brutal fellow who misused him for his
so-called sport one cannot refrain from saying “ Bravo, Brock.”

D. A. MACALISTER.

North Land Footprints. By Kenneth Conibear. Pp. 339.
(Lovat Dickson, 1936.) 7/6.

“ The theory,” said Jones, “ is simple. It’s that in the natural
state animals are not afraid of man. You go into any unexplored

 

 

 




 

BOOK REVIEWS ' 1 5 5

country Where there have never been any men shooting at them
or trapping them, and you’ll ﬁnd that the ‘wild ’ animals are
not ‘ wild ’ at all.” Two trappers discover their private Yellow-
stone Park and try the experiment. But‘MacIvor covets the
pelt of the Silver Fox, and they betray the innocent trust of the
young Muskrat, the Whiskey—Jack, the Beaver, and the other
animals who have won their aﬁection. Fear comes to Little
Bent Tree Lake, while the gods hold discourse and pursue
science, proving nothing at last but that in some things the
animals they trap are Wiser than themselves. Whether the sin
is expiated the reader must discover for himself; and he will
enjoy the discovery, for tragedy, comedy, epic and romance
follow quickly in these pages of animal ﬁction. Yet the author of
this work, a Rhodes scholar and one-time trapper, has accom-
plished something more than a realistic novel. If he has
humanised his subject, he has allied with a richness of vocabulary
and accuracy of detail a sensitive understanding of human and
animal psychology, and there is no questioning his sincerity.
He is the honest biographer. “ I have no moral to put. You
may extract many from this book, or you may not. For my
part I intend none, but only to present to you as true a picture
as I can make of a world much different from ours, yet related to
it, and in some ways not unlike.” There is much of informative
value. . . . “ Lynxes do keep still in traps, belying their
ferocious appearance. . . . Muskrats do force a way up through
three feet or more of ice in Spring, and can swim under ice for
hours. . . . Animals do suffer horrifyingly in traps; whether
they have the sensitiveness to pain of more highly conscious
creatures such as man we can never know, but that they suffer
to the extent of their ability is clear. Trappers are not cruel ;
trapping is.” The author nggests that trappers who “ under-
stand the cycle of wild life perfectly ” could possibily control it
if they cared to take the trouble. Some readers may consider
whether such control could be employed to counteract the Great
Disease which attacks the Varying Rabbit. Most readers,
however, will be content to regard Mr. Conibear’s work as the
most remarkable achievement since “ Tarka the Otter.”
S. G. WEST.

The Countryman’s England. By Dorothy Hartley. Pp. 112.
Illustrated. (Batsford, 1935.) 7/6.

Miss Dorothy Hartley reveals a variety of countryside with
which the ordinary holiday-maker is hardly acquainted. The
divisions of the book follow, not the counties, but the types of
land: “ Mountain and Moorland,” “ Undulating Farmland,”

II

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

156 THE ANIMAL YEAR BOOK

“ Garden and Orchard,” “ Flats and Fens,” “Woods and
Downs ” and “ Sea-Coast.

The author is no hustling Sightseer, but stays to discover the
daily life of the people, and particularly the local industries such
as slate-fencing, peat-cutting, moss—gathering, hedging, thatching,
barrel and basket making, etc. The information is given without
any trace of pedantry, following naturally on the description of
the particular part of the country. A knowledge of tradition
and a keen observation of present conditions blend harmoniously.

Of the animals mentioned, most space is given to sheep and
the contrasting life of the bleak northern moorland, the gentle
southern downs. A claim is made for recognition of the
mountain sheep’s intelligence ; these do not wander indis-
criminately; for their tracks reveal that the best use has been
made of the pasture.

It is surprising to ﬁnd no mention of the rabbit problem,
and only one reference to rabbit-trapping as a local industry
on the Anglesey dunes. Due protest, however, is made against
the cruelty of the gin trap. C. E. HURREN.

Country Men. By John Moore. Pp. 207. (I. M. Dent &

Sons, 1935.) 7/6.

With the love of the English countryside as his slender chain,
Mr. Moore has linked autobiographical sketches of men from
Chaucer up to post-war poets, including Izaak Walton, Herrick,
William Cobbett, George Borrow and William Hudson. The
author has recreated the personalities, varied as they are, and
the movement of his prose seems to reﬂect the blustering or quiet
temperaments which he is interpreting. The chapter on
Hudson recalls his gentleness with all animals, and his “ glorious ”
anger when attacking any form of cruelty, such as the caging
and trapping of owls, or the trade in birds’ feathers. Mr.
Moore’s last notes are pessimistic. “It seems that the men
who babble of England’s green ﬁelds to—day can do little but
record the manner of their passing and recollect in tranquillity
the beauty and the richness of their past.” C. E. HURREN.

The Book of Animal sze. By Thora Stowell. Pp. 292. Illus—
trated. (George G. Harrap 85 Co., 1935.) 7/6.

Thora Stowell writes with the deﬁnite aim of helping children
to appreciate animals and to encourage in them the attitude of
the naturalist “ whose motto is, ‘ Here is an interesting animal——
let us study it ’ not ‘ Here is an interesting animal—shoot it ! ’ ”

The book consists of twenty—nine chapters, short but adequate,
on the various aspects of animal life, including evolution, form,

 

 




 

BOOK REVIEWS , 157

colour, senses, mind, hunger and thirst, hunting, sleeping,
home—building, courtship, and motherhood. Other more un-
usual subjects are the antipathies and friendships among animals,
and animals as gods. Miss Stowell also considers the .com-
plicated relationship of man and animal, emphasising man’s
dependence on both domestic and Wild creatures.

“ The Book of Animal Life ” stands between the story-book
and the textbook, and should prove very interesting to the older
child. Each section is packed with information and yet does
not make heavy reading, as the style is easy and conversational.
The pen sketches also help to elucidate difﬁcult points and add
considerably to the attractiveness of the book. One additional
merit—the print is excellent and reasonably large.

C. ~ E. HURREN.

My Pets. By Miss Marshall Saunders. Pp. 251. Illustrated.
(George G. Harrap & Co., 1935.) 3/6.

Opinions vary on the desirability of keeping caged pets, but
no one can deny that Miss Marshall Saunders obtains the very
best conditions for her birds and smaller animals. The stories
describe mainly the forty birds which live in her aviaries in San
Francisco and in Nova Scotia. Most of these have been rescued
from undersized cages in bird—shops, or have fallen from the
nest and been left stranded Within easy reach of cats. Miss
Saunders is well known in the districts around her homes, and
Whenever a lone ﬂedgling or wounded bird is found, it is brought
to her, likewise all pets which, by force of circumstances, have to
be abandoned. Her aim is to keep each pet until it is strong
enough to receive back its freedom.

Apart from its value as a story book, “ My Pets ” is an excellent
handbook for any child who ﬁnds a baby animal or bird, whether
it be guinea-pig, rabbit, rat, owl, canary, robin or pigeon. The
older child will agree with Miss Saunders and “ turn with a
shudder from the agonised postures, the horrible eyes of birds ”
in women’s hats, and will learn to appreciate more fully the
natural gifts of birds. The writer points out clearly that as
animal intelligence differs from the human, it is unnecessary, if
not wrong, to twist the animal’s mind into a semblance of our
own by teaching it artiﬁcial, unnatural tricks.

- _ H. R. HILLS.

11*

 




 

 

 

 

APPENDIX

ULAWS
(The University of London Animal Welfare Society)

 

 

President
PROF. SIR FREDERICK HOBDAY, C.M.G., F.R.C.V.S., F.R.S.E.

Hon. Treasurer

BRIG.-GEN. MAGNUS MOWAT, C.B.E., F.R.S.E., F.K.C.,
M.INST.C.E., M.I.MECH.E.

Hon Secretary and Chairman of Committees
CAPT. C. W. HUME, M.C., B.SC., F.Z.S. }

Hon. Artist
KENNETH BIRD, B.SC., F.K.C., F.Z.S. (Fougasse)

 

Hon. Secretary for Wild Life
A. H. B. KIRKMAN, F.R.C.S.E., L.R.C.P., F.Z.S.

 

Hon. Secretary for Animals Abroad
F. JEAN VINTER, M.D., B.S.

 

 

Hon. Parliamentary Secretary
MRS. K. RAMSBOTTOM, B.SC.

 

 

Hon. Editor of “ Year Book ”
HELENE E. BARGMANN, PH.D., B.SC.

Hon. Auditors

CHAS. W. ROOKE, LANE & C0., Chartered Accountants,
2, Norfolk Street, W.C.2

Bankers
BARCLAY’S BANK, LTD., 161, Euston Road, N.W.I

1.

Education Secretary
CONSTANCE E. HURREN, PH.D., B.A., DIP. in ED. I

General Secretary
MARJORIE A. CHALLEN, EA

158

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




APPENDIX 159
AIMS OF ULAWS

I. To lessen, by methods appropriate to its special character
as a university organisation, the pain and fear inﬂicted on animals
by man.

2. To enlist the inﬂuence of university men and women on
behalf of animals.

3. To promote, by educational and other methods, interest
in the welfare of animals in Great Britain and abroad.

4. To obtain and disseminate accurate knowledge of problems
relating to animal welfare.

5. To extend the movement to other universities, at home and
abroad. ‘

BRANCHES

Branches are recognised in the following Colleges of the University of
London :—

BEDFORD COLLEGE ROYAL HOLLOWAY COLLEGE
BIRKBECK COLLEGE ROYAL VETERINARY COLLEGE
KING’S COLLEGE SOUTH-EASTERN AGRICULTURAL
LONDON SCHOOL OF MEDICINE COLLEGE, WYE, KENT

FOR WOMEN UNIVERSITY COLLEGE
RICHMOND COLLEGE WESTFIELD COLLEGE

THE SOCIETY’S APPROACH TO THE STUDY OF
ANIMAL WELFARE

Only in recent times have the methods of exact observation
and inference been brought to bear on human welfare and govern-
ment. The study of animal welfare is a department of sociology
which has been neglected in its scientiﬁc aspect even more than
the rest. The chief obstacles to progress lie in ignorance and
other intellectual rather than moral defects, in vices of the head
rather than of the heart.

ULAWS insists on the power and importance of carefully
ascertained fact, and has been rewarded with the conﬁdence of
persons who ordinarily are inclined to regard with suspicion
movements of this kind. For example, close co-operation has
been found possible with individual scientists and scientiﬁc
organisations.

There has been in the past a natural tendency to concentrate
attention on those aspects of animal welfare that most vividly
strike the imagination and are easiest to comprehend. The
objective method of approach advocated by ULAWS has
brought into prominence problems which can be adequately

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

160 THE ANIMAL YEAR BOOK

considered only as a result of intensive research, together with
technical and scientiﬁc knowledge.

The importance of any form of cruelty is regarded by ULAWS
as depending on (I) the number of animals affected; (2) the
intensity of the pain inﬂicted; (3) the duration of the pain
inﬂicted ; (4) the feasibility of obtaining reform—and on no other
factor. From these principles it. naturally follows that more
attention than is usual has been given to wild animals and.
unpopular animals, since the more popular ones are already
extensively cared for by existing animal-protection Societies.-

ACTIVITIES

Broadly speaking, the Society’s work falls under two headings :
(1) educational; (2) study of current problems with a View to
advocating the best means for their solution.

I. EDUCATIONAL WORK.
(a) In connection with the University of London.

It is important that the relevant facts should be brought
before students who in later life will render public service
as scientists, teachers, ministers of religion, journalists or states-
men ; these future leaders of public opinion have, in a university
society, opportunities of associating with biologists and veterinary
surgeons. The “ animal movement ” needs the help of minds
trained in the discipline of accurate thinking, for all good causes
are liable to be prejudiced by uncritical zeal, and the con—
temptuous attitude towards animals which underlies most cruelty
needs to be replaced by that broader—minded view of their nature
which is deducible from biological science.

Meetings, taking the‘form of addresses, discussions, debates,
lantern and ﬁlm lectures are held in colleges of the University
of London, and visits are arranged to places of interest to animal
lovers. ULAWS has always enjoyed the cordial co-operation of
college authorities and students’ unions. -

The interest of students is also being aroused by the organisa-
tion of a panel of student speakers, who give talks on various
aspects of animal welfare in schools, clubs and institutes. A
small but growing library of books relating to animal welfare has
been formed.

(1)) In connection with other universities.

Contact is maintained with members of a number of foreign
universities. A sister Society has been formed in the Otani




APPENDIX I 6 I

University, Kyoto, Japan. Dr. A. S. Millard, a corresponding
member of the Council, visits foreign universities throughout the
world, and arouses interest in the aims of ULAWS.

(c) Extra Mural.

Lectures are, frequently delivered in schools, clubs, institutes,
etc., by the more experienced members of the Society.

Meetings are arranged in co-operation with other humane and
naturalist Societies. '

2. STUDY OF CURRENT PROBLEMS.

Of the problems confronting humane societies and individuals,
ULAWS is engaged in collecting information and seeking reform
for the following : the gin (steel trap) ; trafﬁc in trapped furs ;
treatment of animals abroad ; effects of various poisons ;
operations on animals with and without anaesthetics ; destruc-
tion of sea-birds by oil waste; animal welfare on the farm;
production of animal ﬁxatives for perfumery.

These and other problems are enumerated and briefly eX-
plained in Chapter 7 of Vol. II of The Animal Year Book
(see “ List of Publications ”). _

The Society has always given special prominence to the
campaign against the gin (or steel) trap. The case for the
abolition of this cruel instrument of torture is a very strong one,
and is set forth in great detail in Man versus Rabbit (see “ List
of Publications ”). By intensive research over a period of years,
ULAWS has established the following facts : (I) certain methods,
notably fumigation, are superior to trapping for the control of
rabbits, (2) the steel trap is frequently associated with an increase
in their numbers, (3) previous legislation has been ineffective
because it has failed to control the manner in which traps are used
on private land. The abolition of the gin trap. now occupies a
foremost position in humanitarian thought; this prominence is
due in no small part to the activities and labours of ULAWS.

In 1934 Viscount Tredegar, on behalf of the Society, in—
troduced into the House of Lords the Gin Traps (Prohibition)
Bill. At the second reading in 193 5 an amendment, supported
by ULAWS, to appoint a Select Committee of the House of
Lords was defeated by four votes. In 1936 Lord Merthyr,
on behalf of ULAWS, secured its appointment; the sittings
were held in November and December, 1936, under the chair-
manship of Lord Mersey. An article on p. 95 reviews the
Report of this Committee published in March, 1937, and indicates
the line of future policy. ’ .

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

162 THE ANIMAL YEAR BOOK
AFFILIATION S

ULAWS is afﬁliated to the British Association for the Advance-
ment of Science, to the South-Eastern Union of Scientiﬁc
Societies, to the Institute of Animal Behaviour, and to the
Conference of Educational Associations. The Society is
represented on the Parliamentary Science Committee and on the
Committee set up by the British Board of Film Censors for the
scrutiny of animal ﬁlms.

POLICY AS REGARDS ANIMAL EXPERIMENTS

The Society is precluded by its constitution from engaging
on either side in controversies relating to scientiﬁc experiments
on animals.

MEMBERSHIP

Ordinary membership is open to present and past graduates
and undergraduates of the University of London, to senators,
oﬂicers, and teaching and administrative staffs of the university,
to King’s Counsel, and to veterinary surgeons practising in
London.

All members of the public who subscribe 10s. or more per
annum are eligible as Fellows, and all who subscribe ,4 5 or more
as Patrons.

PUBLICATIONS
BOOKs

Animal Year Book. Volumes I, II, III and IV.
Volume 1. Price 2 /—, postage 4d.
Volumes II, III and IV. Price 2 /6 each, postage 361'.

Man Versus Rabbit. By A. H. B. Kirkman, F.R.C.S.E.,
L.R.C.P., Lond., F.Z.S. (Monograph 4b) illustrated by
Fougasse. Second and enlarged edition 1934, with 9 art
plates and map. Price I /—, poSt free. i

The Rabbit in Australia. By David G. Stead, formerly Special
Rabbit Menace Commissioner to the Government of New
South Wales. Price 2 /—, post free. ULAWS is sole agent
in Great Britain.

BOOKLETS AND PAMPHLETS:

Monograph 4a. ' The Rabbit Problem in Agriculture.
Monograph 46. A Solution of the Rabbit Problem (Cyanide
Gassing).




APPENDIX I 63

Monograph 4d. The Rabbit Menace in Australia in 1933 and
the Way Out.
Monograph 46. Instructions for Dealing with Rabbits.
Monograph 56. Children and Their Pets.
Monograph 7a. The Pathological Effect of Poisons used for
Rodents.
Monograph 7b. Rat-Control.
Facts about Furs.
The Countryside of England (illustrated
booklet).
Man’s Duty to Animals.
Animal Welfare—its Dependence on Accurate
Information.

Animal Welfare and the Teaching of Biology.

PAMPHLETS AND REPRINTS IN LEAFLET FORM:

Prospectus. .
Annual Reports, years 1—10 (1927—1936).
The Gin Traps (Prohibition) Bill.

The Rabbit Menace and the Gin Trap.
The Folly of Rabbit Farming.

Wireless Appeal by FougasSe (illustrated).

LABELS AND BLOTTERS:

Gummed labels for envelopes (picture of trapped rabbit).
Appeal blotter With illustrations by Fougasse.
Cadet blotter for children (Pip, Squeak and Wilfred).

POSTERS (9” X 13%”) BY FOUGASSE :

No. I. For making ULAWS known in Colleges.

No. 2. “ Death on the Water ” (the oil menace to sea birds).
No. 3. “ Was this the Trap that caught your Coat P ”

No. 3b. “ It isn’t Cricket.” '

No. 4. A Mosaic of Trapped Rabbits.

 




. . . ma. .Vﬂi'lll.’1l‘

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

Hawksley Society for the Protection
of Animals and Birds in Italy

Hon Director: COMMENDATORE LEONARD HAWKSLEY

I79 Gloucester Place, London, N.W.| Telephone: Paddington I520

ANIMALS have no nationality, and those which
are most in need should be helped.

POLITICAL feeling caused many of the Society’s members to cancel their sub-
scriptions in I936, just when its work was more needed than ever, as the
recent war greatly depleted the number of draught animals in Italy and made
the price of petrol prohibitive, while fodder is much clearer than before, so that
the animals which are left are made to work a great deal harder and generally
have little to eat. Hence the Society’s expenses during I936 exceeded its income
by over £800, and it must greatly curtail its work unless generous help is speedily
given. Will you come to its rescue 2

FROM the foundation of the Society in january, I927, to the end of I936, it
stationed inspectors in l8 towns in Italy, where they hitched extra
animals to 47,4I9 carts, reduced the loads of 45,943, balanced the loads of 3I,436,
and made persons alight from 83,768 vehicles. They relieved 59,I50 lambs, kids,
fowls and rabbits from being carried head downwards with their legs tied to-
gether, and fed and watered over 3|,500 on railway journeys.

The inspectors confiscated 69,332 sticks, stakes, goads, whips, hame reins,
etc., as well as 220 decoys, 756 blinded birds, and I,380 catapults. They
obtained 4,909 convictions for working animals in an unfit state, 3,580 for
beating, I,450 for overloading, and I,089 for other offences. They suppressed
I28 cruel public games, and obtained ﬁve convictions for cruelty to animals in
curcuses.

The Society has a free hospital and dispensary for sick animals of the
poor at Catania, and has had free veterinary services at Rome, Carrara, Frosinone,
Lucca, Modena, Taormina and Viareggio.

Ten drinking troughs have been erected and are maintained in various
parts of Italy, and 50 tubs for watering animals are kept under stand-pipes in
Rome.

Humane slaughter has been introduced and is constantly supervised in
over 240 municipal abattoirs (including those of Rome and Naples) and 29 bacon
factories.

The Society has contributed towards the erection of dogs’ homes in
Catania and Como. ~

Over I0,000 starving or injured cats have been humanely destroyed.

Nearly 30,000 books and hundreds of coloured posters have been
presented by the Society to the libraries of elementary schools and to public
libraries.

Prizes have been given for the best of 5,000 essays on kindness to animals
written by school children.

The Society carries on extensive propaganda for the conservation of birds.

 

165

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

H UMANE PERFUME

 

Contains no Musk, Civet or Castor

Lavender
6%d. | 6 2 6 4 6
Eau de Cologne } at I I I

Lil , Li lac , ~
y , , }at |/- 2/6 4/6 7/6
Jasmin, Violet
Prices of Powder, Creams, Bath Salts, etc., on application.

POSTAGE: One penny per shilling. Maximum postage 6d.
No order sent by post under 1/6.

Orders supplied by the Hon. Secretary,
Mrs. E. M. Wentworth, B.Sc.
4, Cedar Close,
East Molesey, Surrey.

All Profits devoted to Animal
Welfare Work

HUMANE PERFUMERY COMMITTEE:
Chairman: Capt. C. W. HUME, M.C., B.Sc.

and representatives from The National Council for Animal Welfare,

The Royal Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, The

Scottish Society for Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, The Ulster

Society for Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, and the University of
London Animal Welfare Society.

 

 

 

 

 

 

I66

 




 

 

 

To those who love'Wild Birds

Wild birds soon respond

   
       
 

/\ to encouragement and
232‘: , become regular Visitors
A" .1“ .~ : 27/), to the bird table if food
/‘ 31$ ' “91%;? - _ and water are prov1ded

$3. , it“, - for them.

:1 I ‘ . . .1 /

V ‘w "r , ' 1' ~
// 1 ._ '_ / The pleasure of watchmg
77/). 3,? birds is unbounded; will

,9/;., ' :2.“ 7 ' you not make some return
/,,:,z, 3.; ,’ 4/2 -," for this pleasure
4/2.,» - "r 9‘, 3,3933, , 37/, , . . . .
' 1’ u. “Ts?“ “iii? ff by aiding the“
_ . umiﬁ'ﬁ’ifﬂ; //;\3," ' 'Hn ., ch ampion —— Th e
. .3 Mr 4’. i»; 4?...
s \( ”:3 } W‘i “xiii! ﬁﬁ/l '
‘4 :3 29333, __\. :-«‘.~j7{.g:. Royal Soc1ety for
7/3,?“ ﬁg} ’ 3 32;”: the Protection of Birds?
. r. . _.. ’ I :3 \7/3 7/77 ,7 1 .
,J «4;; -, ’9: .: 'i' ' The mam departments of
,2“ . {Rf-.nﬁ @y/ ’, / / . .-
.-_. MJ/7k .. ., work are Legzslatwn
7 ’3 L \i, /3 , (parliamentary & local) ;
'2//// .4" . " ,, ,, ~21?“ -
K 3???) - , 733 37/73 393/) Watchers (sanctuaries,
7,97 ‘- é”ii@*’>3 safeguarding rare species,
-- ’ -. (4,1,, a. L ’ -
a” ' - 23.7.1.7 CC perches at llghthouses
? 7 ’7 ""737 for mi rants etc )‘ Oil
/ 5 1/74; / 733/ g , . ,
:52 /;’f3 /. /”%3\ Campazgn (to save the
//f/-/’/ 5,1”; .II‘ - ~ . . .
/ if/C/ ,, 13933333 sea birds), Educatzon
,3/ 2.2/3. (lectures, essays in
l ,0“ schools, letters in the
press to arouse publlc
opinion).

In 1933 the Society was successful in securing the “Wild Birds
Charter ”—the Act prohibiting the trafﬁc in British Wild Birds.

join the Society and thus help to safeguard your bird friends
from their many enemies.

TERMS OF SUBSCRIPTION:
Life Fellow . £21 Fellow . From 2I/- annually
Life Member . £5 55. Member . ,, 5/— ,,
Associate . From I/— annually.

THE ROYAL SOCIETY FOR THE

PROTECTION OF BIRDS
82 VICTORIA STREET, LONDON, S.W.|

 

I67

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

‘ OCI ETY'OI PR EVENTIONoTCRU ELTY

President :——HER GRACE THE DUCHESS OF PORTLAND, D.B.E.

The oldest Animal Protection Society in Scotland

Minimum lVlembership Subscription 5 /- annually.
27 Inspectors (LP. Constables) patrolling 25
Scottish Counties.

Horses’ Rest Farm Motor horse-ambulance
Free veterinary treatment for sick animals of the poor
Film and Lantern Lectures—two Lecturers
Awards to Humane Heroes
Prize Essay and Poster Competitions annually

International Journal of Animal Protection—
polyglot—siX-monthly (May and November)—
Annual subscription 13. 6d. post free

97th Annual Report, 208 pages, 16 pages illustrations, gratis on applica-
tion t0 :—
Lyndesay G. Langwill, Chartered Accountant,

Secretary and Treasurer,
Scottish S.P.C.A.,
19 Melville Street,

Edinburgh , 3

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

168

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

THE LEAGUE FOR THE PROHIBITION OF
CRUEL SPORTS URGENTLY REQUIRES HELP

TO PROS ECUTE

THE LEGALISED, ORGAN ISED

ITS CRUSADE AGAINST

“SPORTS”

WHICH DISGRACE OUR 20TH CENTURY
CIVILISATION.

All Donations will be gratefully received by Archdeacon F. LEWIS DONALDSON,
M.A., Hon. Treasurer, League for Prohibition of Cruel Sports, 7, Victoria Street,
Westminster, S.W.I.

 

 

 

 

CRUEL FURS
AND OTHERS

  

How can you wear a trapped
fur, knowing that every hair on
that skin has vibrated with
prolonged torture ?

BEWARE ERMI NE
AND BROATAIL

Write for WHITE LIST of Fur Crusade and

Humane Trapping Campaign which names

furs you need not be ashamed to wear.
Funds needed for more Advts.

 

 

 

 

 

 

.\ . .-‘--‘ . I ,I
DON’T USE GINS!
It has been proved that rabbits

actually increase in numbers when
Gins are used.

They are most unsuitable for rats, as they so

often escape by twisting off a foot. Write for

full illustrated particulars of latest efﬁcient ways

of trapping rabbits, rats, mice, moles, etc.;

with full instructions for using long nets.

Please help distribute Trapping and Fur
Crusade Leaflets.

 

MAJOR G. VAN DER BYL, WAPPENHAM, TOWGESTER

 

 

169

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

HOW TO
PREVENT
CRUELTY
TO ANIMALS

SUPPORT THE
ROYAL SOCIETY FOR THE
PREVENTION OF CRUELTY
TO ANIMALS

  
   
   
     
 
    
   
     
   

  

The
R.S.P.C.A.
is the oldest Animal
Protection Society in the
World and the only one in
this country that employs a
large staﬂ of Inspectors
qualiﬁed by special
training to detect
Cruelty to
Animals

Write to the

R.S.P.C.A., 105, Iermyn St., London, S.W.I
for a free copy of

“Seeing is Believing ”

 

 

 

 

 

I70

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

HUMANE EDUCATION IN SCHOOLS AND HOMES WILL
END CRUELTY AND WARFARE

YOU ARE CORDIALLY INVITED TO SUPPORT

The Humane Education Society, 8°' MosﬁlNiTSESEJéR,

President :—GEORGE ARLISS.

Patrons:
THE DUCHESS OF HAMILTON. ' DR. THISTLETON MARK, D.Litt., B.Sc.
MISS LIND Of Hageby. MISS JESSEY WADE. MISS MAUDE ROYDEN.
J. L. PATON, M.A. E. A. RADFORD, M.P. DR. WALTER CARROLL.

ALD. SIR J. MATHEWSON WATSON, J.P. ALD. J. C. GRIMES, J.P., O.B.E.

Secretary and Lecturer: ARTHUR MIDDLETON.
Hon. Solicitor: FRANK LEIGH. Hon. Andi-tors : H. J. LUNT & CO.
Chairman: GEORGE GRIMSHAW. Deputy Chairman: ERNEST CADMAN.

London Centre :

Hon. Secretary: MISS BERNARD, Laycock Street Schools.
Chairman: MISS M. E. TURNER, Inspector of Schools (Retired).

All who care for children and animals are requested to help forward
our Campaign.

 

The Society aims at being constructive in its policy.
It makes a special feature of Humane Teaching in
Schools and other Centres. It seeks to end all cruelty.

Please write for literature and send a gift if possible.

 

RABBIT AND RAT DESTRUCTION

HYDROCYANIC ACID GAS

— HUMANE — EFFICIENT — SCIENTIFIC —

—-CALC|D--—

EXPERT ADVICE H

II DEMONSTRATIONS H 88'5%C3(CN)2 H FREE

GIVEN
“RICHEST IN HCN”

LONDON FUMIGATION COMPANY, LTD.
Marlow House,
Lloyds’ Avenue, E.C.3.

AND AT Telephone: Royal 7077/8/9
MANCHESTER : St. James’ House, Brazennose Street.

 

 

 

I71

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

THE

NATIONAL COUNCIL
FOR

ANIMALS’ WELFARE

ALMS

at the establishment in Humanity of a sympathetic
recognition of Relationship With all Living Things
and the progressive Emancipation of the Animal

Kingdom from Exploitation.

ANIMALS’ WELFARE WEEK, I937

which, since 1922, has been .celebrated annually in this

country in a gradually increasing number of districts,

begins on SUNDAY, jUNE 20th

All who are willing to take part in the propaganda of the
National Council, or who wish for further information, are

asked to write to the Secretary,

The

National Council for Animals’ Welfare
1 Featherstone Buildings, High Holborn,
London, W.C.1

’Phone: Holborn 9775

 

 

 

 

 

 

172

 

 

 




 

 

Farmers and others faced with the prob-
lem of ridding their land of destructive
rodents should investigate

 

 

 

‘CYM AG'

TRADE MARK

which provides a certain, safe, quick,
cheap and absolutely humane method
of dealing with them.

We will be pleased to send you full
information about 'CYMAG' and to
give you expert advice on dealing
with the destruction of rodent pests.

Write to

IMPERIAL ~ CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES LIMITED

DEPT. C.21, IMPERIAL CHEMICAL HOUSE, LONDON, S.W.1

Sales Oﬁces at Belfast, Birmingham, Bradford, Brisiol, Dublin, Glargow, Hall, Leicester,
Liverpool, London, Mam/.Ierfer, Newcart/e—oa-Tyae, Peterboroagb and Sbrewrbmy.

—
I73

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

SPANA

(Society for the Protection of Animals in North Africa)
l05, JERMYN STREET, S.W.l

President: Her Grace The Duchess of Portland
Hon. Treasurer : Miss Winifred Simpson
Hon. Secretary : Miss Nina M. Hosali, M.Sc., 4|, Baker Street, W.l

Giving , g ' V at

a camel T g: the
a dose of . : ~ Tunis
medicine g " Hospital

SPANA’S WORK FOR DRAUGHT ANIMALS IN NORTH AFRICA

Transport: In North Africa the network of roads is still incomplete. Nomads
inhabit the vast, wild tracks of mountain, plain and desert, where transport can
. be effected only by CAMELS, HORSES, MULES, DONKEYS

Harnessing : Primitive saddles of sacking stuffed with straw, secured by harsh
cords of esparto grass, cause sores, abscesses and ﬁstulas; maggots infest these
wounds and those caused by goading. SPANA DOCTORS THESE SORES

Feeding: Famines regularly devastate some districts. Religious doctrines forbid the
destruction even of starving animals. Where natural forage is unobtainable,
contractors work their donkeys without giving them food rather than bear the
expenSe of conveying fodder. SPANA FEEDS THESE ANIMALS

 

SPANA maintains Animals’ Hospitals and Branches at Algiers, Tunis,
Biskra, Sousse, Sfax and Gabis
First-aid and food are given to animals in many other districts

 

Please help to increase the powers of SPANA’s workers

 

 

I74

 

 




TO ALLWHO LOVE NATURE
JN [NV] T1 770% ,

 

The fundamental principle of the British Empire
Naturalists’ Association, which was founded by
E. Kay Robinson more than thirty years ago, is that ‘
of mutual help. . _

No matter in what aspect of Nature you may be
interested, you will almost certainly ﬁnd others of
like feeling in the Association, ready and eager to
share with you their own joys of the ﬁelds.

The Association not only has active branches work-
ing in various parts of Britain, where kindred spirits
meet together for ﬁeld rambles or discussions; but
it also publishes an illustrated magazine, known as
“ Country-Side,” and an annual " Country-bide
Diary ”—3 vest-pocket guide to the outdoor world
from January to December.

The B.E.N.A., too, can help you in many other ways,
for it has a long list of local representativeswho
will initiate you into the joys of their own particular
regions. p

it has also a similar list of referees—acknowledged
experts in most branches of natural historyewho
freely share their specialised knowledge with thew
fellow members. ' ‘

The annual subscription to'the ’B.E.N.A. is only four
shillings, and “ Country-Side ’,’ is sent post free to.
all members. .

 

If you would like to have further particulars. or to see a specimen
copy of the 48 pp. magazine, please send a l%d. stamp to theHon.
Organising Secretary, B.E.N.A., 22, SOUTH DRIVE, RUlSLlP,
Middlesex. ‘

 

You will incur no obligation by doing this, but you may add a new
and lasting pleasure to your daily life.

 




g4 , .~
» .3, v.2 _
use; .1
7“

4;,-
‘ “v.53.
6'

 




