WHAT IS VIVISECTION?

 

HE word vivisection is used to cover the numerous kinds of experiments
upon live animals which take place in scientiﬁc laboratories, and which
are permitted under a special law. Whilst the poor man in the street is punished
for ill-treatment of his animal, the man of science is licensed to perform experi-

ments in the course of which great and often prolonged suffering may be
and frequently is inﬂicted on dogs, monkeys, cats, rabbits, horses and many
other animals.

These “ laboratory animals ” are strapped down tightly to operating
boards and troughs (skilfully designed to prevent movement), they are muzzled,
and their limbs are bound so as to facilitate the work of the vivisector.

They are then cut open, their exposed nerves are stimulated with elec-
tricity, their internal organs are mutilated, and they are kept alive in cages
for the vivisector to study the process of disease and suffering which follows.
They are injected with the poison of painful diseases as well as with drugs
which produce fever and inﬂammation, and they are left to linger, it may
be for weeks or months, so as'to afford the experimenter full opportunity for
studying their various stages of sickness.

The total number of vivisectional experiments performed in 1932,
according to the Home Ofﬁce Return published in 1933, was 589,154, being
24,408 less than in 1931. Of these 30,073 were cutting operations with
anwsthetics, and 559,081 were inoculations, hypodermic injections and some
few other proceedings performed without anaesthetics. 32,381 of the total
number of experiments were performed by 38 licensees in the course of
cancer investigation (4,630 experiments with anaesthetics, 27,751 experiments
without) ; 140,000 were performed for Government Departments, the
Medical Research Council, County. Councils, Municipal Corporations, or
other Public Health Authorities, being an increase of over 10,000 compared
with 1931 ; and 255,000 were performed by 55 licensees for the preparation
and testing of antitoxic sera and vaccines, and for the testing and
standardising of drugs, being a decrease of 35,000 compared with 1931:.

 




 

The total number of licensees was I,590—-—37z of whom performed no
experiments—which is an increase of 55 over 1931. Experiments were
carried out in 327 registered places ; 24 new places were registered for the
performance of experiments and 8 places were removed from the register
during the year. ‘

IS VIVISECTION CRUEL ?

The opponents of Vivisection are often charged with inaccuracy when
they speak of the suffering which animals undergo in the vivisector’s laboratory.
For many years the majority of vivisectors have denied that they inﬂict
pain, and the most ingenious arguments have been resorted to for the purpose
of showing that animals cannot feel pain, thus misleading the public as to the
real nature of Vivisection. ‘

It is now no longer possible for vivisectors to do so. A Royal Commis-
sion was appointed in September, 1906, to inquire into the practice of vivi-
section, and the inspectors under the Act and some of the vivisectors who
gave evidence before this Commission themselves admitted that pain and
suffering are inseparable from these experiments. Professor Starling, Professor
of Physiology at University College, said that a certain amount of suffering
might be an essential part of the experiment, so that although the animal
was suffering it would not be right to kill it. (Minutes of Evidence before the
Royal Commission, Q. 4,019.) Dr. Pembrey, Lecturer on Physiology at Guy’s
Hospital, told the Commission that “ painful experiments are necessary ”
(14,067), and “ I admit that I have done painful experiments and I am not
ashamed of admitting it ” (14,084). He further informed the Commission
that he considers it perfectly right to inﬂict pain upon animals (14,147). Mr.
Thane, then Chief Inspector under the Vivisection Act, had seen animals
suffer when kept alive for observation after operations (1,550). He had
found animals in “ severe shock and very ill ” when kept alive after the greater
part of the two kidneys had been cut away or when deprived of important
glands. He had seen animals in “ great pain and suffering ” after they have
been injected with drugs and with diseases such as plague and tetanus. Sir
James Russell, then Assistant Inspector, had also found animals in pain when
infected with plague ; he had found them “ miserable and dying, evidently in
suffering” (543). '




The Final Report of the Royal Commission on Vivisection which was
issued in March, 19I2, fully bears out the contention of anti—vivisectionists
that experiments on animals, as carried out under the Vivisection Act, involve
much pain and suffering. Dr. George Wilson, a member of the Commission,
states in his Reservation Memorandum, which forms the second half of the
Final Report, that he is “ far more impressed with the fallacies and failures
which have attended this method of research than with the successful results
which are claimed.”

ARE ANIMALS ANZESTHETISED 1’

According to the Return, published in I933, 559,08I experiments were
performed in 1932 without anaesthetics. Among the victims subjected to such
inoculation experiments, which are often even more cruel in their effect than the
cutting operations, are dogs, cats, horses and mules. Moreover, when amas-
thetics are used by the vivisector they are often used in a way which anaesthetises
the public conscience much more effectively than the poor victims of his knife.
The books written by vivisectors themselves show conclusively that in large
numbers of experiments anaesthetics cannot be used in the same way as they
are used in operations on human beings, for such deep anaesthesia would
frustrate the object of the experiment and is therefore avoided. Vivisectors
operate under light anaesthesia, and the animals are therefore not protected
from pain, even when it is urged that anaesthetics have been employed. Vivi-
sectors are fond of using morphia, which is not an anaesthetic, and under
which surgeons do not operate on human beings. They employ a drug called
curare, which they ﬁnd especially convenient because it paralyses all power
of movement, whilst it in no way affects the capacity for feeling pain. Though
the law does not allow them to operate under this drug alone, it is obvious
that, even when an anaesthetic is added, there is not the slightest guarantee
that the animal Operated upon is not suffering, for curare abolishes the signs
of returning consciousness. and a perfectly conscious animal will lie motionless
under its inﬂuence, even though it be in agony.

Is VIVISECTION NECESSARY P
The public are told that without vivisection science and medical know-
ledge could not progress, and that these experiments are essential as a means
of combating disease, but the history of the results'0f viviSection‘shows constant

 




 

 

 

 

and repeated failures. The records of the death-rate per million inhabitants
in England and Wales from the very diseases Which vivisectors claim to cure,
published by the Registrar—General, show that the vivisectional system is
worthless as a means of stopping the ravages of disease.

Cancer, tuberculosis, diabetes, rheumatism, diphtheria, inﬂuenza and
many other diseases with which the vivisectors occupy themselves, show by
their predominance or by their fatal results the futility of the preventatives
and cures offered, whilst those diseases in the suppression of which sanitary
measures, personal hygiene and improved social conditions alone have been
allowed free play, have decreased in virulence and extent. Great surgeons
are as a rule not vivisectors. Great physicians are as a rule not vivisectors.
The greatest scientists—those who have given to the world brilliant and
lasting fruits of patient research—have not been vivisectors. To—day medical
men are coming forward in opposition to the vivisectors and their theories.
It is becoming evident that vivisection is not only morally unjustiﬁable but also
scientiﬁcally unreliable and dangerous.

WHY VIVISECTION MUST BE ABOLISHED.
Because it is inseparable from cruelty to animals.
Because it degrades those who practise it, and is a stain upon the medical

profession and its students. ‘ V
Because it retards the progress of Medicine by spreading false theories of the

cause and treatment of disease, and by diverting attention from the

sound methods of studying and combating human disease.

 

 

 

Help the cause of Anti-Vivisection by joining

THE ANIMAL DEFENCE AND
ANTLVIVISECTION SOCIETY

MEMBER’S SUBSCRIPTION - - 10/- per annum.
ASSOCIATE’S SUBSCRIPTION - 2/6

President: H on. Director :
THE DUCHESS OF HAMILTON. MISS LIND-AF-HAGEBY

35, OLD BOND STREET, LONDON, W.1.

TONBRIDGE PRINTERS LIMITED PEACH HALL “’ORKS TONBRIDGE

 

’3 39

 

 

 

 




