One of the commonest mistakes of
people of limited outlook is to become
obsessed by some theory which suits
either their advantage or their inlcina-
tion to acquire a little information
which they believe conclusively justo
iﬁes their opinion and then to retire in-
to apermanent state of complacency
without ever troubling themselves
about what might have been found to
contravene their views.

It is the common custom, both with
vivisectors and others who tyrannize
over animals, to assert that God gave
man dominion over them, as if that
settled the whole question. One might
justly suspect that these persons’
knowledge of the Bible was conﬁned
to this one sentence. But if one
chooses the Bible as a justiﬁcation of
his conduct, it is only fair that he
should be expected to read enough
of it to know whereof he speaks.

The ﬁrst chapter of the book of
Genesis relates that God created man
in His own image. In the Gospel. ac-
cording to St. John it is expressly
stated by Christ in His conversation
with the woman of Samaria, that
“God is spirit” (correct translation,)
and it is the understanding of God
conveyed throughout the Bible. There-
fore, as God created man in His own
Image. it is plain that man was creat~
ed spiritual. And now we come to
the important fact that it was to this
spiritual man of the ﬁrst chapter of
Genesis, that dominion was given. It
was to ch’s perfect man, as yet free
from sin, to whom was given domin-
ion over the other beautiful works of
His creation. Also it is noteworthy
that man in his ﬁrst estate—spiritual
man—did not kill other creatures for
food. In common with the beasts of
the earth and the fowls of the air, h'e
subsisted upon herbs bearing seed,
upon fruits and upon green herbs.
Genesis 1: 27-31 and God pronounced
it all “very good.”

As we do not know what period of
time is meant by the six days mention—
ed in this ﬁrst chapter of the Bible,
we do not know how long the era of
man’s spirituality expressed in inno-
cence and harmlessness lasted, but
we do know that he fell into error,
and is still engaged in the mighty
struggle for restoration. One of the
ﬁrst results of his darkened human
understanding was the slaughter of
his little brethren of the animal world

 

Man’s. Dominion Over Animals

__

  

in order to devour them; also he fell
into the habit of trying to propitiate
his Deity, or rather his conception of
Deity, by sacriﬁcing animals. (No
command by God to do this can be
found in the Bible. On the contrary,
there are in the old Testament, as
well as the New, many places where
spiritual service is indicated as the
one thing acceptable. Then later, he
did worse. Having become whol~
ly gross and unspiritual he
conceived the idea of curing the ills
of his misused and diseased body by
experimenting in every conceivable
way on the bodies of live animals, and
now he boldly defends himself by de-
claring that by divine decree, he has
been given dominion over them. It is
baseless assumption. Dominion over
the animal world was given to man
while in his state of innocence and
harmlessness, while he subsisted on
seeds and fruits and herbs, not to
cruel, fallen man, whose spirituality
is so veiled or clouded that he will in-
flict any suffering on the weak for the
assumed beneﬁt of the material body,
although the Scripture by the word
of Christ, declares that “the ﬂesh pro-
ﬁteth nothing.”

To realize and reassert his spiritual
origin, to free himself from the tram-
m‘els of materiality, is the true bus»
iness of man. But the way to it does
not lie through the slaughter-house,
nor the physicological laboratory, nor
the trapping ground, nor the trained
animal show, nor by way of any other
abomination that exploits the inno—

‘cen‘t dumb creature for d'ebased man’s

whim, or convenience. St. Paul said,
“For we know that the whole creation
groaneth and traveileth in pain to—
gether until now.” Into his slough
of sin and suffering, man has also
dragged the animal creation. As he
brought them down so he must raise
them. Their redemption is a part of
his redemption. As he awakens from
his dream of self-gratiﬁcation _ and
cruelty and regains his lost sense of
his spiritual origin, which is acquaint-
ing himself with the Lord (Job 22:21)
he will regain his true dominion,

which is the dominion of love; and
then at last will come to pass that
prophecy of Isaiah (Isaiah 11: 6-9)

on which the eyes of those who sor-
row over the cruelty of the world

have so long been ﬁxed—From “The
Starry Cross.”

Mo. F. L.

  

 

 

  




 




