 

 

 

 

THE
ANIMAL YEAR: “

(ISSUED BY THE UNIVERSITY OF LONDQN
ANIMAL WELFARE SOCIETY}

VOL. 1 (1931)

edited by
C. M. KNIGlﬂ‘9 D.Lito

and

C. W. HUME, MIL, B.Sc,

PRICE TWO SHILLINGS NET

UNIVERSITY OF LONDON PRESS, Lm
10 & 11 WARWICK LANE, LONDON, 12.0.4.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 




 

 

 




 

 

 




 

 

K
O
O
u.»
R
A
E
Y
L
A _
m
N
A
E
H
T

 




 

 

 




 

 

 

 

THE

ANIMAL YEAR-BOOK

(ISSUED BY THE UNIVERSITY OF LONDON
ANIMAL WELFARE SOCIETY)

. VOL. I (1931)

edited by
C. M. KNIGHT, D.Lit.

mm’

C. W. HUME, M.C., B.Sc.

UNIVERSITY OF LONDON PRESS, LTD.
10 & II WARWICK LANE, LONDON, E.C.4

 




 

 

 

Printed in Great Britain for the UNIVERSITY OF LONDON PRESS, LTD.,
by HAZELL, WATSON AND VINEY, LTD., London and Aylesbury.

\1;

 

 




 

 




 

 

 

 

“ What it would be the duty of a human being possessed of the requisite
physical strength to prevent by force, if attempted in his presence, it cannot be
less incumbent on society generally to repress.” (JOHN STUART MILL)

“ The ﬁerce indignation which would blaze out if one were maliciously to
torture a child or an animal in view of an ordinary man or woman would
surely be a spark of the divine wrath. . . . Sins of this kind are a boil, an abscess
on the Universe; they must be attacked and cured through human co-operation.”

(SIR OLIVER LODGE)

“ Still more lowly and reverently must I order myself towards animals, but

then, I must be logical and sincere, and not do so only towards animals that

I like or that like me, or that are lovely to look at, or that are large.”
(FATHER C. C. MARTINDALE, SJ.)




PREFACES

VERY society, which exists for propaganda pur—

poses, has to decide sooner or later the kind of

literature to publish in order to further its object.
It seemed most appropriate to the University of London
Animal Society, of which membership comprises
undergraduate and post-graduate members of the Uni-
versity, and of which the aim must therefore be in the
main educational, that it should publish each year a
review of what has been done and is being done in the
animal movement in its various aspects. So far as we
know, no such work exists in any country, and the difﬁ-
culty of preparing the ﬁrst volume can easily be appre-
ciated, and its inadequacy, of which we ourselves are
readily conscious, may perhaps be pardoned. We hope,
however, that it may be of some help to the younger
workers in the animal cause. Should it prove useful in
this way, the University of London Animal Welfare
Society will endeavour to continue the series, provided
that a larger number of able voluntary collaborators
come forward—that is a very urgent need—and pro-
vided that it has sufﬁcient funds to meet the heavy ex—
pense of such a publication.

As our members represent all shades of opinion, and,
as some of the controversial matters in connection with
the animal cause are considered to be outside the scope
of this Society, it was arranged that contributors should
sign their articles. They were thus free to express their

7

 




 

 

 

 

8 PREFACES

own opinions without reference to the editors, and the
peculiar limitations of the Society. That was the only
practicable and fair method.

The Council of the University of London Animal
Society expresses its grateful thanks to all those who
have kindly contributed to or helped in the preparation
of this volume, and especially to Mr. J. R. Harman for
his valuable assistance in proof—reading. Further, we
wish to record our gratitude to the following publishers
for their generosity in sending us review copies of
books: Messrs. George Allen 85 Unwin, Ltd.; D. Apple-
tOn, of New York; J. W. Arrowsmith, Ltd.; G. Bell 85
Sons, Ltd.; John Bale, Sons 85 Danielsson, Ltd.; A. 85 C.
Black, Ltd.; Blackie 85 Son, Ltd.; Basil Blackwell
(Oxford) ; W. 85 R. Chambers, Ltd.; Chatto 85
Windus; Constable 85 Co., Ltd.; J. M. Dent 85 Sons,
Ltd.; Faber 85 Gwyer, Ltd.; Macmillan 85 Co., Ltd.;
the Macmillan Co. (New York) ; Methuen 85 Co., Ltd.;
John Murray; George Newnes, Ltd.; G. P. Putnam 85
Son; Thornton 85 Butterworth, Ltd.; Williams 85 Nor—
gate, Ltd.; and the University of London Press, Ltd.

Above all, we are indebted to the Tailwaggers’ Club
for a generous grant, without which the publication of
this volume might have been impossible.

C. M. KNIGHT,
Honorary Editor.

HY has it taken just a hundred and sixty-two

\; \/ years to arouse the public conscience on the
subject of slaughter—house methods? and why

is that conscience still dormant as regards the current

 




 

 

 

PREFACES 9

methods of trapping wild animals and many kindred
matters? The chief obstacles to progress undoubtedly
lie in ignorance and other intellectual rather than moral
defects, in vices of the head rather than of the heart.

In the ﬁrst place, narrowness of sympathies and in-
terests is still a common phenomenon. Even a famous
man of science may have his outlook bounded by the
four walls of his laboratory. Within living memory Dar—
win was charged with impiety for cousining brute
beasts upon the lords of creation; and what he shocked
in his contemporaries was not any truly religious senti-
ment, but a cramped narrowmindedness, a kind of petty
racial snobbery or species-consciousness due to lack of
perception.

Men’s minds still tend to run in the wretched little
grooves deﬁned by the Cartesian tradition; and even
those who have shaken themselves free from this stupid
kind of anthropocentricity feel a little shamefaced when
they remember how they will be charged with senti-
mentality, merely for cultivating a reasonable breadth
of sympathy with all sentient creatures. I

In the second place, among those who champion the
rights of animals are some who are ready for every form
of self-denial except that which consists in careful,
accurate, and critical thought and enquiry. Disingenu—
ous pleading on behalf of animals, reckless allegations
of cruelty, and failure to give the devil his due, play
straight into the hands of the vested interests that have
to be fought. Unreasonableness on the part of animal-
lovers has dealt many a stab in the back to the animals.




 

 

 

 

 

 

IO PREFACES

The present Year-Book represents a ﬁrst attempt at the
systematic collection of information relating to animal
welfare. Its incompleteness is due to its having been
produced by the voluntary work of excessively busy
men and women. If it contains inaccuracies, they have
crept in in spite of honest endeavours to avoid them.
Readers could help greatly in the remedying of both
defects, in so far as they exist, in future issues of the

book.

Is it too much to hope, that the rising generation of
scholars and men of science, at present undergraduates,
will give as generously of their time and thought to this
good cause as our distinguished Honorary Editor has
given of hers?

C. W. HUME,
Honorary Assistant Editor.
[ammry I, 1931.

 

 

 

 




 

 

CONTENTS

CHAPTER I

PAGE
PARLIAMENT AND THE PROTECTION OF ANIMALS

By P. E. HODGSON, Barrister—al—Lau/

CHAPTER II

DIRECTORY OF ENGLISH AND SCOTTISH ZOO—
PHILE SOCIETIES.
By C. W. HUME, M..C, B. Sc. wand] R. HARMAN, B.Sc.

CHAPTER III

THE CLINICAL WORK AT THE ROYAL VETERIN-
ARY COLLEGE, LONDON

A NOTE ON THE APPLICATION OF ANZESTHETICS
AND NARCOTICS IN ANIMAL MEDICINE
AND SURGERY

By PROF. J. G. WRIGHT, F...RCV. S. (Profouor of

Pharmacology and Tloorapoaz‘zox at too Royal Voloriaaiy
College, London)

CHAPTER IV

ANIMAL WELFARE IN SOME FOREIGN COUNTRIES
(I) FRANCE. By C. E HURREN . .
(z) HOLLAND. By J. S. MACCORMACK and D. WESLEY
(3) GERMANY. By P. HAAS, D.Sc., PhD.

(4) ITALY. By C. M. KNIGHT, D.Lit.

II

13

31

47

SI

54
56
60
62

 




 

12 C O N T E N T 8
PAGE
(5) GREECE. By C. M. KNIGHT, D.Lit. . . . 67
(6) SPAIN. By C. M. KNIGHT, D.Lit. . . . 71
(7) NORTH AFRICA. By NINA Hosm, M.Sc. . . 73
(8) CANADA. By C. M. KNIGHT, D.Lit. . . . 77
(9) AUSTRALIA. By C. M. KNIGHT, D.Lit. . . 8o

(10) UNITED STATES OF AMERICA. By C. M.

KNIGHT, D.Lit.. . . . . . . 84

CHAPTER V

 

 

SOME PROBLEMS OF THE PRESENT DAY
(I) THE FUR TRADE. By C. W. HUME, M.C., B.Sc. . 90

(2) REQUIREMENTS OF A HUMANE SYSTEM OF
SLAUGHTER. By J. A. S. BARRETT, a Director

of #26 550$!in S.P.C.A. . . . . . 93
(3) THE OIL TRAGEDY. By H. DE VERE STACPOOLE
and PHYLLIS BARCLAY SMITH . . . . 99
(4) TRAPPING RABBITS. By A. H. B. KIRKMAN,
F.R.C.S.E., L.R.C.P. . . . . . . 102
CHAPTER VI

SOME LITERATURE DEALING WITH ANIMALS 107

INDEX TO NOTICES OF BOOKS. . . . 166

APPENDIX

PROSPECTUS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF LONDON
ANIMAL WELFARE SOCIETY . . . I68

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

CHAPTER I

PARLIAMENT AND THE PROTECTION OF ANIMALS
I. H istory“ and Early Statutes

IR GEORGE GREENWOOD, in his address to
the Animal Congress at the Caxton Hall, London,

C

July I 909, deﬁned cruelty as the ‘ unjustiﬁable

inﬂiction of pain.”

A hundred years previously Lord Erskine made his
famous speech to the House of Lords, a speech exempli-
fied by the preamble to his bill which was later thrown
out by the Commons: " Whereas it hath pleased
Almighty God to subdue to the dominion, use, and com-
fort of mankind the strength and faculties of many use—
ful animals . . . and whereas the abuse of that dominion
by cruel and oppressive treatment of such animals . . . is
most pernicious in its example, having an evident ten—‘
dency to harden the heart against the natural feelings
of humanity. . . .” Erskine’s chief indictments were
against the practices of bull—baiting, overworking and
overloading post—horses and asses, and starving animals
impounded for trespass. It is interesting to compare this
epoch-making speech of the last century with that made
by Sir George Greenwood, and the results achieved
twenty-one years later in each case.

The history of the protection of animals from wanton
cruelty is probably founded on the humanitarian doc-
trine of Jeremy Bentham; a doctrine largely responsible

I3

 




 

 

 

 

I4 THE ANIMAL YEAR-BOOK

for the amelioration of the conditions of the weaker races
of mankind—especially children—in the early nineteenth
century. Richard Martin,1 M.P. for Galway, and pioneer
of that friendship for animals which is now taken for
granted in all Englishmen, succeeded in persuading both
Houses to pass the ﬁrst serious statute for protecting
animals. The Statute 3 Geo. V of 1822, commonly
called “ Martin’s Act,” prevented cruel and improper
treatment of beasts of burden. Martin’s continual
addresses in the House of Commons, his prosecutions of
offenders outside, and his assistance in the foundation in
1824 of a society which afterwards became known as
the Royal Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals, paved the way towards reformation.

The greatest difﬁculty to be contended against was the
failure on the part of the Common Law to recognise
any rights of animals. In 1794 a learned judge had re-
marked that “ in order to convict a man of barbarous
treatment of a beast, it should appear that he had malice
towards the prosecutor ”; while in 1832 a woman,
brought up before the Guildhall magistrate on a charge
of skinning cats alive by the dozen, and selling their
skins at 3d. each, had to be discharged, no owner of the
animals appearing. Cruelty as such was never indictable.

The early statutes show a compromise between the
novel humanitarianism and the ancient Common Law.
An Act of 1833, which prohibited cock-ﬁghting and
bear—baiting within ﬁve miles of Temple Bar, was passed
not so much with a view to protecting the animals
mentioned therein as to preventing demoralisation

1 Vide Ric/yard Martin, by Wellesley Pain.

 

 

 




 

 

PARLIAMENT AND ANIMALS IS

among the people, on the ground that such practices as
baiting promoted idleness and disorder. The com-
promise is amply illustrated in the preamble to 5 and 6
Wm. IV, 39, in 18 35: " many and great cruelties are
practised to the great distress and needless increase of
the sufferings of dumb animals and the demoralisation
of the people, whereby the lives and property of His
Majesty’s subjects are greatly endangered. . . .” Actually,

however, the protection afforded by this Act was
meagre. -

The Cruelty to Animals Acts of 1849 and 1854 show
a deﬁnite advance towards the principle that cruelty
itself deserves punishment. Domestic animals alone
were protected, but the Wild Animals in Captivity Pro-
tection Act of I900 began an advance on unexplored
ground. These three acts are incorporated in and super-
seded by the Protection of Animals Act I 91 I, which is y
the modern statute, and is still in force to—day.

2. Tide Cruelty to Animals Act 1876

The Cruelty to Animals Act 1876 is the oldest statute
on this subject that is still in force at the present time.
It deals entirely with experiments on animals. Subject
to a maximum penalty of £50 for the ﬁrst and £100
or three months’ imprisonment for each subsequent
offence, no person may perform on a living animal
(except invertebrates) any experiment calculated to
give pain, without first obtaining a licence from the
Home Secretary. All applications for licences must
be signed by a president of the speciﬁed scientiﬁc bodies,
such as the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons,

 




 

 

16 THE ANIMAL YEAR-BOOK

from whom certiﬁcates for exceptions to the general
restrictions imposed by this act are obtainable.
Licences are granted only for experiments performed,
either to advance by new discovery some physiological
knowledge, or knowledge useful for saving or pro-
longing life or alleviating suffering, or for testing a
particular discovery alleged to be made for one of
these purposes.

Experiments may never be performed in public, and
may only be performed as an illustration to lectures in
medical schools, hospitals, or colleges after a certiﬁcate
has been obtained that such illustrations are absolutely
necessary for the instruction in knowledge, mentioned
above, of those to whom they are shown.

During the whole of the experiment, the animal must
be under the inﬂuence of some anaesthetic—not urari—
of sufﬁcient power to prevent its feeling pain. Certiﬁ—
cates of exemption from this clause are given in cases
where insensibility cannot be produced without neces—
sarily frustrating the object of the experiment.

Where pain is likely to continue or a serious injury has
been inﬂicted, the animal must be killed )before it
recovers from the inﬂuence of the anaesthetic, unless
again a certiﬁcate of exemption has been granted, as
in cases where the immediate killing of the animal would
frustrate the object of the experiment. Here, the animal
must be killed as soon as that object is attained.

Experiments on dogs, cats, horses, asses, and mules are
specially restricted. Certiﬁcates will be given only when
the reasons speciﬁed in the application are, in addition

 

 




 

 

PARLIAMENT AND ANIMALS I7

to the others: (I) that the experiment will be necessarily
frustrated unless it is performed on an animal similar
in constitution and habits to one of the four mentioned;
and (2.) no other animal is available. Copies of certiﬁ-
cates in this and every case must be forwarded to the
Home Secretary, who may disallow or suspend them.

Powers of granting a licence or certiﬁcate may also
be exercised in writing by a judge of the High Court,
in any criminal case in which he is satisﬁed that it is
essential for the purpose of justice that an experiment
be made.

Any justice of the peace who has reason to believe
by information on oath, that experiments are being per-
formed by an unlicensed person, may issue a search
warrant to any ofﬁcer or constable of police. No prose—
cution against a licensed person can be instituted with-
out the consent in writing of the Home Secretary.

3. The Animals (Anaesthetics) Act I9 19

The Animals (Anaesthetics) Act 1919 forbids cer-
tain speciﬁed 1 operations to be performed on any horse,
dog, cat, or bovine unless the animal during the whole
operation is under the inﬂuence of some general anaes-
thetic of suﬂicient power to prevent its feeling pain.
In other operations, speciﬁed 2 in the act, a general or
local anaesthetic must be applied.

Subject to the right of discussion by persons inter-
ested, and the right of veto by Parliament, the Board of
Agriculture and Fisheries (now the Ministry of Agri-

culture and Fisheries) may add any operation to the
1 See Note “ A.” 2 See Note “ B.”

 

 

 

 




18 THE ANIMAL YEAR-BOOK

others already speciﬁed, or transfer any operation from
one schedule to another, or extend the provisions of this
act to any domestic animal not already included. It may
be noted, however, that no such order has as yet been
made, and further that operations on swine (e.g. the
spaying of sows) are not covered by this act. The Board
may also declare any substance to be a suitable anaes-
thetic for the purposes of the act.

NOTE “ A.”——-OPERATIONS IN WHICH A GENERAL ANAESTHETIC

 

MUST BE USED, OF SUFFICIENT POWER TO PREVENT THE ANIMAL

FEELING PAIN.

H one!

. Operation for

quittor.

Dog: and C at:

. Castration in anim—

als six months old

Bovine:

I. Ovariotomy.
. Operations for ac-

2. Operation for and upwards. tinomycosis.
stripping the 2. Ovariotomy. . Laparotomy.
wall or sole of 3. Laparotomy. . Amputations of
. the hoof. 4. Amputations of penis, mamma,
3. Operation for poll penis, mamma, and uterus.

evil.
Operation for ﬁs-
tulous withers.

. Ovariotomy.
. Laparotomy.
. Amputations of

penis, mamma,
and uterus.

. Extraction of per-

manent molar
teeth.
9. Operations for

scrotal and in-
guinal hernia.

10. Operation for
scirrhous cord
and extensive

tumours.

and uterus.

. Operations for

scrotal and in—
guinal hernia.

. Dishorning of cattle

over one month

old.

 




 

PARLIAMENT AND ANIMALS [9

NOTE “ B.”—OPERATIONs IN WHICH A GENERAL OR LOCAL
ANAESTHETIC MUST BE USED, OF SUFFICIENT POWER TO
PREVENT THE ANIMAL FEELING PAIN.

Home: Dogs and Cats Boomer

I. Neurectomy or I. Enucleation of the I. Enucleation Of the
unnerving. eyeball. eyeball.

2. Enucleation Of the 2. Operation for um- 2. Operation for um-
eyeball. bilical hernia. bilical hernia.

3. Line and point 3. Urethrotomy. 3. Rumenotomy.
ﬁring. 4. Docking of the tail 4. Urethrotomy.

4. Operation of um- and clipping or 5. Trephining.
bilical hernia. rounding of

5. Urethrotomy. ears of animals

6. Docking of the over six months
tail. old.

7. Trephining.

4. Protection of Animals Act 1911 and Amendments
and the Performing Animals (Regulation) Act I 925

The Protection Of Animals Act 1911 is the main
statute on cruelty to animals, and is here dealt with
section by section:

It is an Offence against Section I if any person shall
cruelly beat, kick, ill-treat, override, overdrive, over-
load, torture, infuriate, or terrify any animal; or cause,
procure, or as owner permit the same to be done; or
wantonly or unreasonably cause any unnecessary suffer-
ing; or be responsible for conveying any animal in such
a manner as to cause it unnecessary suffering; or assist
at the ﬁghting or baiting Of any animal; or wilfully,
Without any reasonable cause, administer, or be respon—
sible for the administration of, any poisonous or injuri-
ous substance to any animal; or subject any animal to
an Operation performed Without due care and humanity.
The penalty for each of these Offences is a ﬁne not

 

 




 

 

 

20 THE ANIMAL YEAR-BOOK

exceeding £25, or imprisonment with or without hard
labour for a period not exceeding six months, or both.
(The maximum sentence of imprisonment was reduced
to three months by the Amendment Act I912) .1

An owner shall be deemed to have permitted cruelty
if he has failed to exercise reasonable care and super-
vision in protecting his animal from cruelties men-
tioned. But for this offence alone he is not liable to be
imprisoned.

Nothing in this act renders unlawful anything legally
done under the Cruelty to Animals Act 1876, or applies
to anything done in the course of destroying an animal
as food for mankind, provided such destruction was not
accompanied by the inﬂiction of unnecessary pain; or
applies to the coursing or hunting of any captive
animal, unless liberated in an injured, mutilated, or ex-
hausted condition. By Section I of the Amendment Act,
I 921, an animal is not deemed to be coursed or hunted
within the meaning of this section, if it is in an enclosed
space from which it has no reasonable chance of escape.

When an owner has been convicted, Section 2 em-
powers the court to order destruction of the animal,
where it has been shown, upon the evidence of a veterin-
ary surgeon, that it would be cruel to keep it alive. By
Section 3 the court can deprive any owner, convicted
of cruelty, of the ownership of his animal where it
appears, either from his character or from previous
convictions, that the animal if left in his keeping would
be subjected to further cruelties.

1 See note at the end of this section.

 




 

PARLIAMENT AND ANIMALS 21

Section 5 deals with the compliance by knackers
(persons whose trade or business it is to kill any cattle
otherwise than for butcher’s meat) to nine regulations
laid down in this Section:

I. The name, together with the word knacker, to be afﬁxed
or painted conspicuously over the door or gate of his yard.

2. The hair to be cut from the neck of any horse, ass, or mule
upon delivery.

5. Animals to be slaughtered with as little suffering as possible,
and within two days of delivery. Any animal in pain to be
slaughtered without delay.

4. All animals to be properly fed and watered.

5. No animal to be used for any work.

6. A book to be kept with full description of every animal
delivered.

7. No person under sixteen years to be admitted during the
slaughtering or cutting up of an animal’s carcass.

8. No animal to be killed within sight of another animal awaiting
slaughter.

9. No animal, once delivered, to be sold or parted with alive.

And (Section 6) no person licensed to slaughter
horses can be a horse dealer at the same time.

Section 7. Persons who impound animals must supply
them with food and water.

Section 8. Persons selling, attempting to sell or give
away, or placing on any land or building, any grain,
seed, ﬂuid, or edible matter rendered poisonous except
for bond ﬁde use in agriculture, are liable to a ﬁne not
exceeding £10. (By Section 2 of the Amendment Act of
1927 it is sufﬁcient defence to this charge that the
poison was used for the purpose of destroying insects
and other invertebrates, where this is found to be neces-
sary either in the interest of public health, agriculture,

 

 




 

 

 

 

22 THE ANIMAL YEAR-BOOK

or for the preservation of other animals; and if the
accused took reasonable precautions to prevent injury
to dogs, cats, fowls, or other domestic animals or wild

birds.)

Section 9 prohibits the use of dogs for drawing carts,
carriages, trucks, or barrows on the public highway.

By Section IO, persons who set spring traps for catch-
ing hares and rabbits must cause some competent person
to visit the traps at least once every day between sunrise
and sunset.

Section I I empowers police-constables, on ﬁnding any
horse, mule, ass, bull, sheep, goat, or pig so mutilated
or diseased that there is no possibility of removing it
without cruelty, to slaughter the animal in as humane
a manner as possible. A police-constable is also em-
powered (Section 12) to apprehend without warrant
any person whom he has reason to believe to be guilty of
any of the offences under Section I of this act except
the last.

By one of the deﬁnitions given in Section I 5, the eX—
pression " animal” means any domestic or captive
animal, the latter including birds, ﬁsh, and reptiles in
captivity or conﬁnement.

Although not actually an amendment, the Performing
Animals (Regulation) Act of 1925 is dealt with here, its
main object being to prevent cruelty. By section I, only
persons registered under this act can exhibit or train
performing animals. Registration can be obtained from
any local authority. Applicants must give particulars
of the animal in question, and the general nature of the

 




 

PARLIAMENT AND ANIMALS 23'

performance. Section 2 empowers the courts to prohibit
or restrict exhibitions or training, where a complaint has
been made by an ofﬁcer of a local authority or a con—
stable. Copies of any order made by the court in this
connection must be sent to the local authority and to
the Home Secretary. Particulars must also be endorsed
on the certiﬁcate of the owner of the animal. By Section
3, any officer of a local authority duly authorised or any
constable may inspect premises in which performing
animals are being trained or exhibited, but they must
not go behind the scenes during a public performance.
The penalty for offences under this act (Section 4) is
a ﬁne not exceeding £50, and in certain cases
removal from the register. This act does not apply to
the training of animals for ham? ﬁde military, police,
agricultural, or sporting purposes, or the exhibition of
animals so trained.

Note on the reduction of the Maximum Sentence from
Six to Three Months

In all offences, the maximum sentence of which is not
less than six months, the accused has the right to be
tried by a jury. In the case of cruelty to animals
offenders took full advantage of this right—with disas-
trous results to justice! Not a single conviction was
recorded in any case of this description tried by a jury,
the nearest approach being a disagreement, and this in
the face of the chairman’s direction to convict. By the
reduction of the maximum sentence, it was made pos-
sible for offences to be tried by magistrates alone. This
may account for what, to many people, appear to be
light sentences which are so constantly inﬂicted.

 

 




 

 

24 THE ANIMAL YEAR-BOOK

5. Miscellaneous Protective Statutes

There are various enactments which in some way or
another afford protection to speciﬁed animals and birds.
Of these, the most outstanding are the Wild Birds Pro—
tection Acts 1880—1908, and the Diseases of Animals
Acts 1894—1927. Under the former series of acts there
is a close season, generally from March I to August 1,
during which the killing or taking of wild birds is pro-
hibited. The rarer species are protected by a ﬁne not
exceeding £1 per bird, others by a ﬁne of 55. on second
conviction. Other offences under these acts include
shooting, using lime traps, setting pole traps, taking
or destroying eggs, taking wild birds by means of a
hook. In addition to any other penalty imposed, the
court may order forfeiture of any trap, snare, etc., used.
The Sand—Grouse Protection Act absolutely prohibits
the killing and selling of sand- grouse under a maximum
penalty of £1 for each bird, while the Protection of
Lapwings Act 1928 protects lapwings, green plovers,
peesweeps, and peewits from March I to August 31
under a of maximum penalty of £5.

Other bird-protecting statutes are the Captive Bird
Shooting (Prohibition) Act I921, which prohibits the
shooting of liberated captive birds (maximum penalty
£2 5 and imprisonment for three months with hard
labour), and the Protection of Birds Act I 92 5, which
prohibits the use as a decoy of any live bird tethered
or secured, blind, maimed, or injured, and makes it
illegal to conﬁne a bird in any cage or receptacle which
will not permit it freely to stretch its wings. (This last
does not apply to birds conveyed by land or water or

 

 

 




 

 

PARLIAMENT AND ANIMALS 25

exhibited in public, provided they are not conﬁned for
more than seventy—two hours.) The Importation of
Plumage (Prohibition) Act I921 prohibits the importa-
tion of the plumage of any birds except those mentioned
in the act, and others authorised by the Board of Trade.1

The main object of the Diseases of Animals Acts I 8 94-—
I927 is to prevent the spreading of contagious diseases.
This is achieved by slaughtering the animals affected,
or by isolating those in infected areas. The Exportation
of Horses Act 1914 prohibits the exportation of those
horses which have been declared by a veterinary in—
spector, appointed by the Board of Trade, to be in-
capable of being worked without suffering. Inspectors
are also empowered to slaughter any horse whose con-
dition is such that it would be cruel to keep it alive.
The Horse Breeding Act of I9 18 prohibits the travelling
and exhibiting for service of unlicensed stallions.
NOTE—Birds, the plumage of which may be imported : African
ostriches, eider ducks, rhea Rothschildi, ”common jay, magpie,
Starling, common cormorant, common shag. The art does not
pro/Jioit t/oe importation of (1) birds inzported alive, (2) birds ordinarily

wed in UK. as articles of diet, and (3) plumage imported as part of tin
wearing apparel of a passenger.

6. The Slaughter of Animals (Scotland) Act 1928
and the Slaughter of Animals Bill I 9 30

The Slaughter of. Animals (Scotland) Act I928 pro~
vides that all animals, except swine, slaughtered in a
slaughter-house or knacker’s yard shall be stunned with
a mechanically-operated instrument. Slaughter-men
must be licensed by the local authority and must be

1 See note at the end of this section.

 

 




 

 

26 THE ANIMAL YEAR-BOOK

male persons of the age of I 8 years or upwards. Licences
must be renewed annually and can be suspended or
revoked by the local authority, subject to appeal to the
Sheriff. The initial fee for a licence must not exceed 53.,
or the renewal fee IS. Police constables, J.P. constables,
and any persons authorised by the local authority have
the right of entry to slaughter-houses. (Inspectors of
the S.S.P.C.A. are sworn in as J.P. constables.) This act
does not apply to slaughter carried out according to the
Jewish method by a person licensed by the Chief Rabbi
and by the local authority.

The Slaughter of Animals Bill for England, generally
similar to the above-mentioned act but applicable to
pigs, passed its second reading on December 12, 1930,
by consent. It appears likely, however, that facilities for
the later stages of this bill will only be accorded to an
agreed measure, i.e. one not applicable to pigs.

7. Summary of Cruelty Punisbczble by Law
(All domestic and captive animals, including birds, ﬁshes, and reptiles)

Protection of Animals Act 1911, Section I, Sub-section I :-———

(a) Cruelly beating, kicking, ill—treating, overriding, over-
driving, overloading, torturing, infuriating, and terrifying.

(b) Conveying in such a manner as to cause unnecessary suffering.

(c) Assisting at ﬁghting or baiting.

(d) Wilfully administering a poisonous substance.

((2) Subjecting to any operation performed without due care
and humanity.

Section I, Sub-section 2 :—

Failing to exercise reasonable care in protecting animals from
the above.

Section I, Sub—section 3 :—

Does not apply (a) to any act done in the course of preparing




PARLIAMENT AND ANIMALS 27

an animal for destruction as food for mankind, provided there
was no unnecessary suffering.

(5) Or to the coursing or hunting of a liberated captive animal
unless liberated in an exhausted condition, having no chance of
escape.

Performing Animals (Regulation) Act 1925 :—-1

Training any animal for public performance Without a licence,
or contrary to the conditions imposed therein.
Cruelty to Animals Act 1876 2—1

Performing experiments, calculated to give pain, Without a
licence.

Birds

Protected by the Wild Birds Protection Acts 1880—1908, and
other statutes. '

Wild Birds Protection Acts 1880, Section 5 :—
Shooting or using lime-traps, snares, nets, etc., for taking wild
birds out of season.

Wild Birds Protection Act 1894, Section 5 :—
Taking or destroying eggs.
Wild Birds Protection Act 1908, Section 1 :—
Taking Wild birds by means of a hook.
Captive Birds Shooting (Prohibition) Act 1921, Section 1 :—
Liberating captive birds for the purpose of being shot at.
Protection of Birds Act 1925, Section 1 :—
Using as a decoy any live bird tethered by a hook.

Section 2 :—
Conﬁning birds in cages smaller than Wing span.

Dog;
Protection of Animals Act 1911, Section 9 :—
Using dogs for the purpose of draught.

Home;

Exportation of Horses Act 1914, Section 1 :—
Exporting horses incapable of being worked Without suffering.

1 These acts do not protect invertebrate animals.

 

 




 

 

 

28 THE ANIMAL YEAR-BOOK

Horse Breeding Act 1918, Section I :—

Exhibiting stallions of a prescribed age for service without a
licence.
Vermin

Ground Game Act 1880, Section 6 :—
Employing spring traps except in rabbit holes.
Protection of Animals Act 191 1, Section IO :—
Failing to inspect any spring trap between sunrise and sunset.

8. N We on Procedure in Cases of Cruelty

By statute there are three means by which perpetrators
of cruelty to animals can be brought to justice:

(I) Arrest by policeman. Only a police—constable can
effect an arrest, either on his own view or upon the
complaint of any other person.

(2) By summons. The name and address of the
offender and, if he is in charge of a vehicle, the name
painted thereon must be obtained, and the complaint
laid before a Justice of the Peace within whose jurisdic-
tion the offence shall have been committed. This must
be done wit/gin six calendar months after the commission
of the offence. i

(3) By warrant. This is desirable in all cases where
there is reason to believe that the oﬁender will evade a
summons by absconding. Sworn uinformation ” in
writing, which will satisfy the magistrate that the
accused has committed the said offence and is likely to

abscond, is required.

A private person who witnesses a case of cruelty, but
feels incompetent to conduct proceedings, should" give
full information to an Inspector of the R.S.P.C.A. or

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

PARLIAMENT AND ANIMALS 29

to the Secretary of the R.S.P.C.A., 105 Jermyn Street,
London, SW. If there is sufﬁcient evidence, this society
will prosecute without expense to the applicant and
without his assistance, except in so far as that may be
necessary for the conviction of the offender. The names
of persons and letters supplying information are kept
strictly private and conﬁdential. Correspondents must
give their names and those of any witnesses, from whom
further particulars may be obtained, if needed. Anony-
mous complaints are useless.

For fuller information on this subject the reader is
referred to the instructions printed at the end of the
R.S.P.C.A. Annual Report, obtainable at 105 Jermyn
St., S.W.I, or to the Scottish S.P.C.A., I 9 Melville St.,
Edinburgh. ' -

9. List 1 0f Projected Parliamentary Bills.

Protection of Animals Bill: to prohibit the hunting of
captive animals which are released from captivity, in
strange ground, for the purpose of being hunted, namely
deer and rabbit coursing.

Exportation of Horses Bill: to prevent eXport of horses
over 7 years of age and under £30 in value.

Mines (Protection of Animals) Bill: to prevent horses
in mines working more than 8 hours and also to prevent
those suffering from certain diseases being employed in
or about mines. To increase number of Horse Inspec-
tors, of whom there are at present only eight.

1 Kindly supplied by the R.S.P.C.A., which drafted the ﬁrst
seven of the bills mentioned.

 

 




 

 

 

 

30 THE ANIMAL YEAR-BOOK

Importation of Plumage' (Prohibition) Act I 921
Amendment Bill: to prohibit sales of Plumage already
prohibited from import on ground of cruelty and ex—
termination.

Slaughter of Animals Bill: (see Section 6 above).

Oil on Navigable Waters I 921 (Amendment) Bill: to
save destruction of Wild birds. To extend Act to " any ”
waters, e.g. to prevent discharge of oily refuse by cer-
tain vessels overboard; to give effect to certain Recom-
mendations of the 1925 Washington Conference on Oil
Pollution.

Performing Animal's Regulation Act I 925 Amend-
ment Bill: to incorporate certain recommendations
made by the Select Committee on PA. 192 1—22, namely
the prohibition of the performances of anthropoid apes.
Also to prohibit the performances of trained carnivor-
ous animals, namely: lions, tigers, Cheetahs, pumas,
hyenas, and leopards.

Rabbits Bill: primarily to promote destruction of
rabbits, but Section 7 would preclude trappers employed
by public authorities from using spring traps.

Great Grey Seals Protection Act: protects grey seals
from October I to December 15; renewable annually
under Expiring Laws Continuation Act.

Dogs Bill: to prohibit scientiﬁc experiments on dogs.

F. E. HODGSON.

 

 




 

CHAPTER II

DIRECTORY OF ZOOPHILE SOCIETIES IN ENGLAND,
SCOTLAND, AND WALES

OME readers of this directory may be surprised to

ﬁnd that the number of societies mentioned in it

is so great as it is. For the sake of comparison, how-
ever, they would do well to turn to Low’s London
Charities, where they will ﬁnd a list of more than 1,8 00
foundations in London alone for the relief of human
suffering. To these must be added the local charities
throughout the country, the charitable work of the
Churches with their poor funds, and the system of
national and local government which man has provided
for his own welfare and protection. Animals are more
numerous than human beings, they are oftener exposed
to physical distress, some'of them are probably more
sensitive to fear and pain, and most of them are far
more defenceless. When, therefore, the manifold
machinery which the British have prepared for their
'own well-being is compared with the little band of
struggling organisations noticed below, the dominant
species cannot be said to have erred on the side of gener—
osity. For instance, there are over 40 medical schools in
Great Britain, but there are only three veterinary col-

leges, the chief of which is bankrupt and housed in
ruins.

On the other hand, the conspectus that follows does ,
3]:

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

32 THE ANIMAL YEAR—BOOK

raise the question whether efﬁciency might be promoted
if some degree of amalgamation were to be carried out,
and it is useful to enquire how far there is justiﬁcation
for the division of effort here disclosed.

The main burden of animal protection falls on the
territorial societies, the chief of which are the
R.S.P.C.A. and the Scottish S.P.C.A. These have been
built up in part by the amalgamation of smaller local
bodies, and it may be that the process of fusion will be
carried farther in the future.

Other societies—of which the U.L.A.W.S. is a good
example—have undertaken special tasks which neces-
sitate a separate existence, but permit of the closest co-
operation with the territorial societies. Again, the latter
societies, although they help and encourage animal-wel-
fare work abroad in many practical ways, are unable
to assume direct responsibility for it. A few London
societies exist speciﬁcally for that purpose, and since
humane work abroad depends largely on Anglo—Saxon
leadership, it is very desirable that their number and
scope should be enlarged rather than diminished.

The fact that some questions relating to animal welfare
are highly controversial justiﬁes a considerable division
of responsibility. The work of the territorial societies
requires that they should maintain a national character,
and this would be sacriﬁced if they moved too far
beyond the support of public opinion. Moreover, the
existence of a number of societies having varied aims
enables everybody who is willing to work against cruelty
to find some channel for his sympathy, whereas if all
societies were committed to the same details of policy,

 

 




 

ZOOPHILE DIRECTORY 33

the whole body of their supporters would be narrowed

down to an exclusive clique with small inﬂuence on
the public. ‘

Again, it is not unnatural that from time to time a
group of persons who .are specially enthusiastic about
some particular reform should embark on an inde—
pendent effort to obtain for it the prominence which
they think it ought to receive. This tendency is useful
in providing a channel for enthusiasm that might other-
wise find no outlet, and often movements founded in
this way have ultimately and advantageously been ab-
sorbed by more influential zoophile societies.

Lastly, the existing differences of method are even
more important than the differences of aim. Some
animal—lovers try to be scrupulously fair in formulating
allegations of cruelty, others feel that exaggeration is
permissible for the sake of arousing public .feeling,
while others again ﬁnd in quarrelsomeness a relief for
the distress which the thought of cruelty arouses in their
minds. These differences of method may be responsible

for some division of effort which might be avoided with
advantage.

The inclusion of a society in this list does not imply
endorsement by the University of London Animal Wel-
fare Society of its policy or methods. As we are not in
a position to assess authoritatively the merits of all the
societies having as their declared aim the promotion of
animal welfare, we have included in our compilation
all those about which we have been able to obtain in-
formation.

3

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

34 THE ANIMAL YEAR-BOOK

The numerical data are the latest available, and relate
in most instances to the year I 929.

We should be grateful for any help which readers may
be able to give uS in correcting or completing this
directory for future editions of the YEAR-BOOK.

J. R. HARMAN.
C. W. HUME.

SOCIETIES RESPONSIBLE FOR SPECIFIED GEOGRAPHICAL AREAS
IN ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, AND WALES

Royal Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, IO 5
Jermyn Street, London, S.W.I. Founded 1824. Presidenz‘ H.R.H.
the Prince of Wales. C/Jairinan Sir Robert Gower. Hon. Treasurer
C. A. Phillimore. C/yief Secretary Captain E. G. Fairholme. Subscrip-
tion Annual £1 1s., life j€21. Members 8,000. Subscribers 20,000.
Brane/Jes and Auxiliaries 1,718. Area England and Wales, except
certain towns. Receipts J€217,716 (including legacies). Expenditure
J€121,1 84.. Accounts received. Pub/nations Tire Aniinal War/d
(monthly, 4d. post free), Band of Mere)! Magazine (monthly, Id.
post free), numerous pamphlets, annual report, history A Hundred
Years’ Work for Animals (7s. 6d. net). Activities include lectures
in schools, pet Shows, Band of Mercy, Animal Defenders’ Corps,
essay competition, mobile cinema; 223 inspectors; warnings
21,630, convictions for cruelty 2,624; free veterinary advice
by M.R.C.V.S. organised in 115 branches, 25,538 animals treated
and 111,460 unwanted animals and birds destroyed; humane
Slaughter demonstrations; inspection of markets; prize offered
for humane rabbit—trap ; knotted snare and Lewis snare advocated ;
observance of Animal Sunday (4th after Trinity) advocated;
medals presented . for saving animals ; animal welfare group
formed in Parliament, parliamentary work organised. For full
account see pamphlet, T/ye R.S.P.C.A., What it Is and What it Does.

 




 

 

ZOOPHILE DIRECTORY 35

Scottish Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, 19
Melville Street, Edinburgh. Founded 18 59. President The Duchess
of Portland. Cbair/nan Thos. Macintosh. Treasurer and Secretary
Lyndesay G. Langwill. Subscription 5s. or more, associates 2s. 6d.,
life £10, or subscriptions amounting to £12. Members 4,000.
Brancbes 46. Area 25 Scottish counties. Receipts £9,058, (including
legacies). Expenditure £8,406. Accounts received. Publications annual
report (much general information) and leaﬂets. Actieities juvenile
lecturer maintained ; ﬁlms, lantern lectures, etc., in schools ; 6,834
animals humanely destroyed ; 49 veterinary fees paid; 21 inspectors
(appointed ].P. constables), 55 prosecutions, 300 warnings; rest-
farm, horse ambulance, drinking—troughs ; urges substitution
of humane snare, gate trap, etc., for common trap and snare;
urges slaughter—house reform, and humane killer for pigs. For
full details see annual report.

Glasgow and West of Scotland Society for the {Prevention
of Cruelty to Animals, 28 Bath Street, Glasgow. Establisbed 1856.
President The Rt. Hon. the Lord Provost of Glasgow. Acting
Cbairnzan Maurice J. Bell. Treasurer Arch. R. Ormiston. Secretaries
Lowndes & Renwick, Solicitors, Glasgow. Subscription Annual
£1 Is., life £5 5s. Members 428. Subscribers 12,410. Brancbes 512.
Area Glasgow, Counties of Argyll, Ayr, Bute, Dumbarton, Lanark,
Renfrew, and Stirling. Receipts £4,108. Expenditure £4,594. Accounts
received. Publications annual report, posters, pamphlets. Activities
lectures; gifts of books to schools; Animal Defenders’ Corps
for children; annual Animals’ Week (Nov.); presentation of
medals; I4 inspectors, 3,891 cases of cruelty, 2,050 animals
humanely destroyed; sand-boxes and troughs obtained; cattle
traffic watched with intent to improve conditions.

Hampstead Society for the Protection of Animals, 51 Buckland
Crescent, London, N.W.5. Founded 1879. President Ernest Bell,
Hon. Treasurer H. E. Brown. Hon. Secretary Mrs. W. Woolf.
Subscription Annual from 2s. 6d. Members 200. Area Hampstead
and Kilburn. Receipts £480. Expenditure £480. Accounts received.
Publication Annual report. Activities lectures; I inspector; 76
warnings; 2,500 sick animals treated under M.R.C.V.S. ; 1,500
animals humanely destroyed ; drinking—troughs ; dog licence club ;
cab—horse parade ; humane killers supplied to slaughter—houses.

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

36 THE ANIMAL YEAR-BOOK

Other Territorial Societies. Sister societies exist in Bath, Ciren-
cester, Gloucester, Guernsey, Hull, Isle of Man, Jersey, Newton
Abbot, Walsall, Aberdeen, Dundee. Addresses are given in the
Annual Report oft/9e R.S.P.C.A., 1929, p. 157.

HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETIES

Humane Education Circle, Rotherﬁeld Street School, Essex
Road, London, N.I. Founded 1926. Clyaz'rrnan Miss M. E. Turner.
Hon. Treasurer Miss M. Pollard. Hen. Secretary Miss S. M. Wortman.
Subscription Annual Is. Members I so. Area North London. Receipts
£2 6s. 6d. Expenditure £9 5s. 2d. Aeeounts received. Publication
Annual report. Activities Lectures to adults and children ; school
pet shows in elementary schools; teacher-members introduce
humane instruction in the ordinary course of teaching; cat-
baskets are kept in about twenty schools for disposal of sick or
unwanted cats. (Islington and Finsbury Educational Society.)

Humane Education Society, 80 Mosley Street, Manchester.
Cleaz'rrnan Mr. J. E. Dorset. Hon. Treasurer Mr. V. Wilson. Secretary
Mr. A. Middleton. Subscription Annual Is. Members 500. Area
England. Receipts £495. Expenditure £513. Amounts received.
Publications annual report, pamphlets. Activities humane education
in schools advocated; publicity conducted chieﬂy on the more
controversial topics. I

School Nature Study Union, 45 Cheviot Road, London, SE27.
Young Farmers’ Club, Ministry of Agriculture, Whitehall.

Other Societies dealing with Humane Education. See also the
R.S.P.C.A. (Band of Mercy Movement), Scottish S.P.C.A. and
Other territorial societies, University of London Animal Welfare
Society, Royal Society for the Protection of Birds.

SOCIETIES NOT CLASSIFIED
Animals’ Defence Society. See under Anti-vivisection Societies.

National Council for Animals’ Welfare (Incorporating Animals’
Welfare Week), 36 Gordon Square, London, W.C.I. Founded
1922. Chairman R. H. Spurrier. Hon. Secretary Comdr. J. L. Cather.
Hon. Treasurer Ernest Bell. Secretary Mrs. Y. Stott. National

3 I
‘Yv—‘de- / s «




ZOOPHILE DIRECTORY 37

Organiser Miss D. Barrs. Branches 156. Receipts £65 1. Expenditure
£701. Accounts received. Puhlicatz'ons leaﬂets, etc., and The Anirnals’
Friend monthly. Activities Organises Animals’ Welfare Week
and Animals’ Fair, promotes co—operation between other societies.

Society for the Preservation of the Fauna of the Empire, c/o
The Zoological Society, Regent’s Park, London, N.W.8.

University of London Animal Welfare Society, c/o University
of London Union, 68 Torrington Square, London, W.C.1 (Corre—
spondence should be sent to the private addresses of the Hon.
Secretaries.) Founded 1926. President Principal F. T. G. Hobday.
Hon. Treasurer Dr. P. Haas. Hon. Secretaries Capt. C. W. Hume,
Dr. C. M. Knight. Suhscription Is. Donations fro/n puhlic No limit. '
Menihersth restricted to members of the University of London
and veterinary surgeons practising in London. Branches (college) 7.
Hon. Menzhership under consideration. Receipts £89. Expenditure
£79. Accounts received. Activities, see appendix to this YEAR—BOOK.

SOCIETIES OPERATING ABROAD

Council of Justice to Animals. See under “ Societies advocating
Humane Slaughter.” .

Hawksley Society for the Protection of Animals and Birds in
Italy, 5 Hayes Road, Bromley, Kent. Founded 1927. Secretary
W. H. Sharland. Suhscrzption N 0 minimum. Menihers 860. Area
Italy. Branches I4. Receipts £1,542. Expenditure £1,838. Accounts
received. Puhlications Pamphlets, posters, annual report. Activities
see p. 63 of this YEAR—BOOK.

Society for the Protection of Animals in North Africa, 105
Jermyn Street, London, S.W.I. Founded 1923, by Mrs. Frances K.
Hosali. President The Duchess of Portland. Hon. Treasurer Captain
F. MacCunn. Hon. Secretary Miss Nina M. Hosali, M.Sc. Suhscriptions
Annual £1, life £20. Menihers 65o. Suhscrihers 600. Branches Algiers,
Tunis, Oran, Biskra, Sousse, Gabes, Tiaret. Area Algeria and
Tunisia. Receipts £5,622. Expenditure £3,472. Accounts received
Puhlications Quarterly journal S.P.A.N.A. News, 1s. per annum,
annual report. Activities see p. 73 of this YEAR—BOOK.

Other Societies Operating Abroad. A list is given on pp. 157
et sea. of the R.S.P.C.A. Annual Report for 1929. Some of these

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

38 THE ANIMAL YEAR-BOOK

are described in Chapter IV of the present YEAR-BOOK, and others
on pp. 6 5 ez‘ reg. of the Seotrz'rb S.P.C.A. Animal Report for 1929.
Notices appear from time to time in The Animal World. See 4/50
the Metropolitan Drinking Fountain and Cattle Trough Associa—
tlon.

SOCIETIES DEALING WITH TRAPPING

Anti-Steel-toothed-Trap Committee, 36 Gordon Square, W.C.1.
Founded 1928. Chair/mm Sir W. Beach Thomas. Hen. Treasurer
Commander J. L. Cather. Secretary Miss A. M. Hum. Subscriber;
goo. Reeez'pz‘s ,5 I 84. Expenditure j€228. Aeeeetm‘r received. Pub/im—
z‘z’om leaﬂets, pictorial post cards, and stamps. Aez‘z'w'z‘z'er advocates,
by circulars, letters, addresses, etc., the abolition of the steel trap
and common snare, licensing of trappers, use of nets, humane
snares, etc., for destruction of rabbits ; organised petition to

Parliament ; collects and supplies information on humane trapping.

Fur Crusade, Major C. Van der Byl, Wappenham House,
Towcester, Northants, conducts extensive propaganda against
the cruelty involved in trapping for furs.

League for the Prohibition of Steel Traps, “ Denray,” Wellesley
Road, Cliftonville, ’Margate. Here. Dz'reez‘or R. W. Aucott. See
Tram, February 4, I951, p. 170.

Other Societies dealing with Trapping. See also Royal S.P.C.A.,
Scottish S.P.C.A., University of London Animal Welfare Society,
National Council for Animals’ Welfare, Animals’ Defence Society.

SOCIETIES DEALING WITH BIRDS

Penguin Club, Cliffe Dene, Bonchurch, I.O.W. Recently founded
by Mr. H. de Vere Stacpoole to ﬁght oil—pollution of sea.

Royal Society for the Protection of Birds, 82 Victoria Street,
London, S.W.1. Foe/reeled 1889. Incorporated under Royal Charter
1904. President The Duchess of Portland. Cbaz'rrrzaﬂ Sir Montague
Sharpe. H072. Treamrer Rt. Hon. Earl Buxton. H072. Secretary
Frank E. Lemon. Secretary Miss L. Gardiner. Subrerz'pz‘z’om Annual——
fellows £1 15., members 5:. ; life—fellows 7521, members £5 53.




ZOOPHILE DIRECTORY 39

Fellows 959. Members 2,969. Subscribers 400. Area The world.
Receipts £4,147. Expenditure £5,896. Accounts received. Publications
quarterly journal Bird Notes and News, 4s. per annum. Annual
report, pamphlets, booklets, posters, post cards, stamps. Activities
lectures, exhibitions, school competitions ; 52 watchers maintained
in Great Britain to safeguard Wild birds ; contraventions of law
referred to the police ; use of nesting boxes, lighthouse perches,
etc., promoted ; campaign conducted against oil-pollution of sea.

R.S.P.C.A. Caged Bird Poster Fund, 95 Park Road, London,
W.4. Founded I92 5. Hon. Secretary-and Treasurer Miss M. Bradish.
Receipts £ 101. Expenditure £85. Accounts received. Activities
Posters, leaﬂets, lectures, etc., against caging of Wild birds and
on management of caged birds. In co—operation with R.S.P.C.A.

SOCIETIES DEALING WITH HUMANE SLAUGHTER

Council of Justice to Animals and Humane Slaughter Associa-
tion, 42 Old Bond Street, W. I . Founded I 91 I . President The Duchess
of Portland. Cbairnian General Sir George Barrow. Hon. Treasurer
Ernest Bell. Hon. Secretary Lady Muriel H. D. Willoughby. Secre—
tary Miss Violet Wood. Subscription 10s. 6d. Members and Subscribers
1,800. Brancbes 7. Area British Islands, France, Roumania, Albania,
Athens, Corsica, Poland, Syria, Spain. Expenditure £569. Receipts
£ 5,1 3 2. Expenditure £3,716. Accounts received. Activities promotion
of humane slaughter and painless killing of horses, dogs, cats, etc. ;
Foreign Legion organised ; I inspector.

Model Abattoir Society, 90 Buckingham Palace Road, London,
S.W.I. Founded 1882. President Sir James Crichton-Browne,
Cbairinan Professor H. Kenvvood. Hon. Treasurer Cecil Walsh.
Hon. S ecretaiy . Subscriptions annual 5s.,
life £3 3s. Receipts £80. Expenditure £100. Accounts received.
Publications annual report, B. W. Richardson Memorial Lectures
(annual), general literature on abattoirs. Activities Design of
abattoirs and exhibition of models ; investigation of humane
methods of slaughter ; agitation for abolition of private abattoirs
and replacement by public abattoirs.

Other Societies dealing with Humane Slaughter. See also
R.S.P.C.A., Scottish S.P.C.A., University of London Animal
Welfare Society and others.

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

40 THE ANIMAL YEAR-BOOK

SOCIETIES DEALING WITH HORSES

International League against the Export of Horses for Butchery,
5 Bloomsbury Square, London, W.C.1. Founded 1928. President
M. Jules Ruhl. Hon. Director Geoffrey H. 'Gilbey, in succession
to the late Miss A. M. F. Cole. Hon. Treasurer Ernest Bell,
Secretary Miss S. Baum. Subscription annual 5s. Members 370.
Subscribers I 30. Area The world. Receipts £1,843. Expenditure
{I 8 72. Accounts received. Publication annual report. Activities
investigation of abattoirs, Study of export of horses for Slaughter,
publicity ; experimental horse abattoir maintained ; bill promoted
for prohibiting export of horses of less than a prescribed value.

London Cart-Horse Parade Society, 12 Hanover Square, London,
W.I. Founded 1890. Patron H.M. The King. President Sir Walter
Gilbey. Hon. Treasurer C. A. Phillimore. Secretary R. F. Ling.
Receipts 7€8.22. Expenditure £772. Accounts received. Activities
parade on Whit—Monday in Regent’s Park, with inspection of
condition, harness—ﬁtting, etc., by veterinary surgeons, and prizes.

London Van-Horse Parade Society, 12 Hanover Square, London,
W.1. Founded 1904. Patron H.M. The King. President The Earl of
Lonsdale. Cnairnzan Lord Danesbury. Hon. Treasurer Sir Samuel
Scott. Secretary R. A. Brown. Subscription any amount. Members
zoo. Receipts J£675. Expenditure £7 3 3. Accounts received. Activities
annual parade on Easter Monday in Hyde Park, with inspection of
condition, harness—ﬁtting, etc., by veterinary surgeons, and prizes.

Metropolitan Drinking Fountain and Cattle Trough Associa-
tion, 70 Victoria Street, S.W.1. Founded 1859. Patron H.R.H. The
Prince of Wales. President The Duke of Portland. Clyairnean H. W.
Tinne. Hon. Treasurer Principal F. T. G. Hobday. Expenditure £3,139.
Receipts J€1,009. Accounts received. Area London, Great Britain, and
abroad (e.g. Korea, Tangier). Activities 843 cattle troughs, 1,458
drinking fountains, 1,5 59 dog troughs.

National Equine Defence League, 16 Beaconsﬁeld Road, New
Southgate, London, N.11. Founded 1909. Cnairinan Wm. Brown,
Hon. Treasurer Mrs. A. Shuttleworth. Hon. Secretary Mrs. M. K.
Matthew. Subscriptions annual no minimum, life ,5 5 . Branc/yes
15. Receipts £1, 575 (including legacies). Expenditure £1,200.
Accounts received. Publications annual report, pamphlets, posters.




ZOOPIIILE DIRECTORY 4.1

Activities inspector maintained ; ten horses humanely killed;
six prosecutions ; lectures on farriery, etc., and prizes ; publicity
on! controversial and other subjects.

National Horse Association of Great Britain, 12 Hanover
Square, London, W.I. President Major—General G. H. A. White.
Hon. Treasurer Sir W. Gilbey. Secretary R. A. Brown. Menckersbip
374 (individuals and associations). Area Great Britain. Activities
mainly directed to encouragement of the use of horses, but include
action'as to slippery roads, farriery, life-saving, etc.

Pit Ponies Protection Society, 82 Boundary Road, St. John’s
Wood, London, N.W.8. Founded 1927. President Sir Robert Gower,
C/nzirinun and Hen. Treasurer Ernest Bell, Hen. Secretary D. Jeffrey
Williams, Subscription not ﬁxed. Subscribers 350. Area Great
Britain and N. Ireland. Receipts j€2.65. Expenditure £154.
Accounts received. Publications annual report and pamphlets.
Activities Coal Mines (Protection of Animals) Bill promoted;
publicity on behalf of 8—hour day and other improved conditions
for horses in mines, introduction of mechanical haulage, increase
in inspectorate, etc.

SOCIETIES DEALING WITH CATS, DOGS, AND OTHER
DOMESTIC PETS

Animal Aid and Welfare Clubs, 97 Kensal Road, W.Io.

Animal Rescue League, 397 City Road, London, E.C.I.
See R.S.P.C.A.

Animals Help Society, 281 Goldhawk Road, London, W.Iz.

Brown Animal Sanatory Institution Hospital, 149 Wandsworth
Road, Vauxhall, S.W.8. A laboratory for experiments on animals
is maintained by the Brown Institution, which has consequently
been the subject of controversy; but the hospital is under the
direction of Mr. H. C. Driver, M.R.C.V.S., and receives out—
patients and a limited number of in—patients belonging to poor
persons.

Cats Protection League, York House, Portugal Street, London,
W.C.2. Founded 1927. President Mrs. Clive. Hen. Treasurer Ernest
Bell. Hon. Secretary Mrs. Avery. Subscriptions annual 2s. 6d,,

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

42 THE ANIMAL YEAR-BOOK

life £5. Members 350. Subscribers 230. Area Great Britain. Brancnes
Slough, Liverpool (ﬁnancially independent). Receipts £87 (excluding
branches). Expenditure j£40 (excluding branches). Accounts received.
Publications Annual report, pamphlets, lists of cat shelters.
Activities educational work on the care of cats ; steps to prevent
production of unwanted cats, to institute lethal chambers,
and to discourage the performance of operations on cats by un—
qualiﬁed persons.

National Canine Defence League, Victoria Station House,
Victoria Street, S.W.1. President Lord Danesfort. Chairman and
Hon. Treasnrer Sir Robert Gower. Secretary Charles R. Johns.
Subscription annual £1 1s., life £5 5's. Members 6,000. Branc/oes 66.
Receipts J€13,954 (including legacies). Expenditure j€8,164. Acconnts
received. Publications Tire Dogs’ Balletin (bimensal 1s. per annum
post free), booklets, etc., annual report. Activities 7 clinics under
veterinary supervision, 41,042 animals treated, 12,000 destroyed,
free veterinary tickets issued, 3,952 dog licences paid, 2 inspectors,
ﬁlm, lectures, etc.

Our Dumb Friends’ League, 72 Victoria Street, London, SAY/.1.

People’s Dispensaries for the Sick Animals of the Poor, 14
Clifford Street, London, Wm No information has been received
with regard to this society. It is understood to maintain dis-
pensaries and caravans in which the diagnosis and treatment of
animal ailments is carried out under the supervision of persons
not possessed of veterinary qualiﬁcations.

Royal (Dick) Veterinary College Clinical Department, Edin—
burgh. Fonna’ed 1823. Ont-patients clinic at 10 a.m. daily for poor
persons’ animals. Hospital with ultra—violet, X—ray, etc., apparatus,
about 58 patients.

Royal Veterinary College Hospital, Great College Street, Camden
' Town, N .W. I. See report on p. 47 of this YEAR—BOOK.

Tailwaggers’ Club, 21—22 Temple Chambers, Temple Avenue,
London, E.C.4. Fonna’ea’ 1928 (National Dog Week). Cnairman
A. Croxton Smith. Hon. Secretary and Founder Capt. H. E. Hobbs.
Life Members/32p 2s. 6d. Members (clogs) 400,000. Area principally
Great Britain, but includes 93 other countries. Constitution In-




ZOOPI—IILE DIRECTORY 43

corporated as limited company without dividends. Publications
handbook of dog management, and monthly journal. Activities
tracing of lost dogs, supply of information on management, surplus
funds devoted to dog welfare (£15,000 raised for R.V.C., £8,000
being raised for 8 dog welfare institutions).

University of Liverpool, School of Veterinary Science, Veterinary
Hospital. Hon. Surgeon Prof. J. Share Jones. Administrator R. Isher—
wood.

Wood Green Animal Refuge, 100 Lordship Lane, London, N.22
(Miss Snow). Sends cyclists to destroy unwanted cats, etc.

See also various societies classiﬁed elsewhere.

AQUARIUM SOCIETIES
Formed primarily for tbe encouragement of nature stucﬁz, tbese societies
tend to eliminate tbe cruelty involved in tbe keeping of ﬁsb under un—
satisfactory conditions. In at least one instance (Bristol Aquarium Society)
bumanitarian aims are speciﬁcally propounded.
Bristol Aquarium Society, 16 Elmgrove Road, Fishponds,
Bristol.

Aquarium Club, 27 Shaftesbury Road, London, W6.
British Aquarists’ Association, 1 2 Winkﬁeld Road, London, N .22.
Publication ; Tbe Aquarium Review.

British Aquarium Society, The Aquarium, Zoological Gardens,
Regent’s Park, London, N.W.

Merseyside Aquarium Society, 18 Massey Park, Wallasey,
Cheshire.

Scottish Aquarium Society, 10 Princes Terrace, Glasgow, V7.2.

VEGETARIAN SOCIETIES

London Vegetarian Society, 8 John Street, Adelphi, W.C.2.
Founded 1888. President Dr. B. P. Allinson. Cbairman Ernest Bell,
Hon. Treasurer S. A. Hurren. Secretary F. Wyatt. Subscriptions 5s.,
life £10 10s. Members 1,100. Aﬁliated societies 56. Area Great Britain
and world. Receipts £1,261. Expenditure £1,288. Accounts received.
Publications Vegetarian N ezvs, 3d. monthly; Food Reformers’ Year—
book, 1s. 6d. ; annual report. Activities lectures, cookery demonstra—
tions, exhibitions, etc., and vegetarian holiday centres.

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

44 TI—IE ANIMAL YEAR—BOOK

National Food Reform Demonstration Council, 36 Gordon
Square, W.C.1. Founded 1928. Patrons numerous. Cbair/nan Miss P.
Hodgkinson. Hon. Treasurer R. H. Spurrier. Hon. Secretaries Miss F.
Barker, C. W. Forward. Subscriptions 2s. 6d. Actioities van main—
tained for open—air demonstrations of meatless cookery; demon—
strations given in guilds, clubs, etc. ; meatless recipes, etc.,
published; prize competitions; memorial nut-tree planted in
Somers Town Garden City.

Order of the Golden Age, 15 5 Brompton Road, London, S.W.3.
Founded 1895. President and Founder Sidney H. Beard. Hon. Treasurers
Sidney H. Beard, R. Lawson Coad. Secretary Elsie A. Quinion.
Subscriptions Annual 2s. 6d., life £10. Brancbes Natal, Bombay.
Area the world. Receipts £854. Expenditure £814. Accounts
received. Publications annual report, pamphlets, books; journal
discontinued. Aim to encourage abstention from ﬂesh and fowl
and oppose all cruelty by precept and example.

Vegetarian Society, 39 Wilmslow Road, Rusholme, Manchester.
Founded 1847. President Ernest Bell, Cbairrnan W. M. Farrington.
Hon. Treasurer. J. H. Brazendale. Secretary J. Hough. Subscription
5s. Members abstain from ﬁsh, ﬂesh, and fowl ; Associates
sympathise with vegetarianism. Brancbes 32. Area Great Britain and
International. Receipts and Expenditure £4,147. Accounts received.
Publications Tbe Vegetarian Messenger, 3d. monthly ; pamphlets, etc.
Activities Lectures, cookery, demonstrations, summer school, etc.

SOCIETIES OPPOSING THE USE OF ANIMALS IN AMUSEMENTS

League for the Prohibition of Cruel Sports, 101 Chandos
House, Westminster, S.W.1. Founded 1925. President
. Cbairinan Percy E. Hurst. Hon. Treasurer Ernest Bell,
Secretary J. C. Sharp. Subscriptions annual, 2s. 6d., life £5.
Menzbers 1,700 or 2,000 including branch—members. Subscribers 100.
Brancbes 3. Area British Isles. Receipts £1,636. Expenditure £1,797.
Accounts received. Publications Quarterly journal Cruel Sports,
2%d. ; pamphlets, annual report. Actioities lectures; meetings in

hunting districts; petition against stag-hunting; bills for pro-.

hibition of coursing and of hunting of deer and captive animals.

 

 

 




 

 

ZOOPHILE DIRECTORY 45

Jack London Club. A loose organisation, which originated in
the United States but has extended to other countries, comprising
persons who undertake not to patronise entertainments which
include animal performances. Has been adopted by several
British animal protection societies.

Performing and Captive Animals’ Defence League, 17 Bucking-
ham Street, Adelphi, London, W.C.2. Founded 1914. President
Frances, Countess of Warwick. Hon. Treas. Robert H. Spurrier.
Secretary Edmund T. MacMichael. Subscription annual 2s. 6d.,
life £5. Members 750. Subscribers 50. Brancbes representatives at
Brighton, Leicester, etc. Area Great Britain. Receipts £55 5. Ex-
pena’iture 7€816. Accounts received. Publications monthly pages in
Animals’ Friend, 3%cl.; annual report, pamphlets, posters, etc.
Activities lectures ; protests at circuses, etc. ; Performing Animals
(Regulation) Amendment Bill promoted.

ANTI-VIVISECTION SOCIETIES

Tbe University of London Animal Welfare Society is precluded by its
constitution from taking part on eitber sicle in controversies relating to
experiments on animals. Tbe follozving list is given, wit/rout implication,
for tbe sake of completeness.

Animals’ Defence and Anti-vivisection Society, 3 5 Old Bond
Street, S.W.1. (Deals also with humane slaughter, humane dress,
and animals abroad.)

British Union for the Abolition of Vivisection, 32 Chating Cross,
S.W.1.

Church Anti-Vivisection League, St. Clement’s Vicarage, Fulham
Palace Road, S.W.6.

Friends’ Anti-vivisection . Society, 46 High Street, Barnet, Herts.

London and Provincial Anti-vivisection Society, 76 Victoria
Street, S.W.1.

National Anti-vaccination League, 25 Denison House, 296
Vauxhall Bridge Road, S.W.I.

National Anti-vivisection Society, 92 Victoria Street, S.W.1.

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

46 THE ANIMAL YEAR—BOOK

Scottish Society for the Prevention of Vivisection, 10 Queens-
ferry Street, Edinburgh ; 147 Bath Street, Glasgow.
Society for United Prayer for the Prevention of Cruelty to

Animals, 6 Southwick Crescent, Hyde Park, W.z. (Other
subjects also.)

World League against Vivisection and for the Protection of
Animals (English Branch), 47 Hamilton Road, N.5. (Also deals
with humane slaughter and fur fabrics.)

See also Canine Defence League, National Equine Defence League.

 

 




 

 

 

CHAPTER III

CLINICAL WORK AT THE ROYAL VETERINARY COLLEGE,
LONDON
I. Work in the Poor Persons’ Clinic at the Royal
Veterinary College
D URING the year ending June I 930, 7,842

animals were attended in the Poor Persons’
Clinic. These comprise 5,130 new cases and
2,712 re-inspections.

The animals treated comprise:

 

 

Horses. . 446 Donkeys . I I
Goats . . I Dogs . . 5, I 48
Cats . . 2, I 7 8 Rabbits . I o
Monkeys . 5 Birds . . 43

 

The horse clinic admits, chieﬂy, animals belonging
to the poorer type of hawker, and these people come to
the college from all parts Of London. The ages of the
animals vary, from two-year-olds which have recently
been purchased at Barnet or another of the fairs, to
very old, and in some cases decrepit, horses. A number
of donkeys are still brought to us by costermongers
from the East End.

Amongst the young stock a considerable amount of
emasculation is performed, the operation being carried
out under general anaesthesia by means Of the inhalation
Of chloroform.

Cases of lameness are; common amongst horses of all
ages, and these comprise sprains of the various muscles

47

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

''''''

‘48 THE ANIMAL YEAR-BOOK

and tendons, traumatic diseases of the feet, and, in older
animals, chronic bone diseases, etc.

Fortunately, contagious diseases amongst horses are
comparatively rare. Wounds, of course, are common,
and in this connection one might refer to the sus-
ceptibility of the horse to tetanus, and in consequence
the use of antitetanic serum as a preventive.

Dental troubles are exceedingly common in the older
animals, and consequent upon them, digestive disturb-
ances, with loss of ﬂesh. The loss of subcutaneous fat
predisposes the patient to galling of the skin by harness.
Such cases are a constant source of cruelty charges in
the police-courts, and one feels that there is a consider-
able ﬁeld for the activities of the various Animal
Welfare Societies in this connection. By assisting poor
owners to replace such animals with young and healthy
ones they could do much to prevent such cases arising.
Of the smaller animals, dogs and cats form our chief
patients, although, not infrequently, we are asked to
treat goats and rabbits, and birds, such as fowls and
canaries.

Street accidents give rise to an enormous amount of
suffering amongst dogs. Annually we treat hundreds of
such cases. It is only seldom that the animal is killed
outright; usually there is injury to some internal organ,
fractures of the various bones, particularly of the pelvis
or femora, and lacerations of the soft tissues. It should
be unnecessary to have to warn owners continually that
dogs should be allowed on the highway only on the
lead, but, nevertheless, the numbers of such cases are
increasing. Our sympathy is with the animal. and we

 

‘w.--...—~._. 1-...;‘I ”m--._._~ m... . ~_A.,.»

_.. -M-.—.4-- -.

- ..

 

 




 

...:.,.—-._..... mm... .‘. Mw~_._.m~ ..-._. , a-.-“

-.-4..-» ._. .h a—_,..... -‘_L w.— a“ —..—

..... “—1 .:-_..._._-a..—...w- -

 

ROYAL VETERINARY COLLEGE 49

would point out to owners that sentiment (which at
times amounts to hysteria) after an accident is not
helpful, and that the observance of a few precautions
would in 90 per cent. of cases prevent such accidents
from occurring.

Passing to contagious diseases, distemper is the greatest
scourge that we have to combat. The mortality in
young dogs is very high, and in particularly virulent out-
breaks may be 50 per cent. or even higher. One feels that
a good purpose would be served if one explained a few
symptoms in connection with this troublesome disease.
It is a contagious disease of the dog (and, as a matter
of fact, of the ferret) ; human beings, and the domestic
animals other than the dog, are not susceptible. It can-
not arise spontaneously, and an animal is by no means
bound to contract it. Contagion as a general rule passes
from dog to dog by direct contact. Treatment of the
disease is unsatisfactory, and all one’s efforts should be
aimed at prevention. This particularly applies to animals
less than nine months old. Puppies should never he
allowed to come into contact with other young dogs.
When an animal has attained maturity it may not be
practicable to enforce this rigid isolation, but by this
time the dog is fully grown, and its chances of com-
bating the disease are much greater. Laidlaw and Dunkin
have shown that by a new method of vaccination sus-
ceptible animals can be defended against it. Many of the
dogs’ homes and places of animal rescue are hotbeds of
distemper, and practically every young dog introduced
becomes infected. One often wonders which are the
happier, the unrescued animals, or the rescued which

4

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

SO THE ANIMAL YEAR-BOOK

are doomed to suffer from distemper. This, of course,
can be remedied. By the segregation of all animals im-
mediately on arrival, and by professional supervision
during the period of incubation, the incidence of dis-
temper in these places could be greatly reduced.

Diseases associated with errors in diet are frequently
met in the clinic. In young animals this not only gives
rise to digestive troubles, but also causes improper de-
velopment of the teeth and bones. The diet of every
young dog should contain a ration of meat, preferably
raw, with fat, milk, and hard bone for the development
of the teeth. One feels that much of the trouble occur-
ring amongst older dogs is, in part, due to the almost
entirely starch diet which so many get.

The incidence of irregularities at parturition is not
high amongst our canine patients, and it is more
common in the small toy breeds than in large dogs. We
would, however, urge that when cases arise assistance
be sought early. In so many cases the mother is left
until the case has become hopeless.

Malignant growths are, unfortunately, very frequently
met with in the dog, particularly in animals past middle
age. In fact, they are much more common in this species
than in the other domestic animals.

Finally, one might end by remarking that the health
of an animal depends, to a very great degree, upon a
proper diet, proper housing, and judicious exercise, and
if these three points are always borne in mind much
will be done to prevent disease amongst them.

J. G. WRIGHT.

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

ROYAL VETERINARY COLLEGE SI

2. A Note on the Application of Anaesthetics arid
Narcotics in Animal Medicine and Surgery

Very great advance has been made in the knowledge
and use of anaesthetics since the introduction of ether
and chloroform into surgery in 1846 and 1847, and at
the present time practically all surgical interference is
performed under general or local anaesthesia. In ad-
dition the value of the narcotics has been realised, and
their employment as pain relievers is now extensively
adopted.

In veterinary medicine and surgery we have a number
of factors to contend with which are not applicable
when a human being is treated. In the first place, in the
case of anaesthesia by inhalation it must be borne in mind
that the animal resents and fears compulsion to inhale
a strange, pungent vapour. This gives rise to struggling
which in turn causes acceleration of respirations and
the heart-beat, and, in consequence, great care must
be taken in the administration of the anaesthetic, or an
overdose may be given. It is in this connection that the
preliminary administration of a narcotic is so useful,
in that it sufficiently dulls the nervous system to reduce
partly, or even eliminate, this period of fear and
struggling. Again, the various parts of the nervous
system have reached varying stages in development in
the different species, and thus the action of drugs is by
no means constant in our subjects. In this connection
it is interesting to note that whilst morphine acts as a
cerebral depressant, causing stupor in the dog, in the
cat it causes spinal stimulation, and under its inﬂuence
such an animal may appear maniacal.

 




 

 

 

 

52 THE ANIMAL YEAR-BOOK

Certain species are very much more susceptible than
others to the toxity of anaesthetics. Whilst the horse
is an excellent subject for chloroform, when properly
prepared, great care must be taken always in its ad-
ministration to the dog and cat, otherwise fatalities will
occur.

The digestive tracts of the herbivorous animals are
complex and bulky, and it is essential, for safe and satis-
factory anaesthesia, that the animal be prepared by the
previous administration of a suitable diet.

For the horse chloroform is the; anaesthetic most fre—
quently employed. It may be used alone or combined
with the previous administration by the mouth or
rectum of a narcotic, such as chloral hydrate or can—
nabis indica. Morphine is not a suitable drug for this
animal. Administration is effected by means of a mask
placed over the notrils, either when the animal is stand-
ing up, in which case it is walked around until it falls
narcotised, or after casting.

Here it should be explained that the induction of
anaesthesia is accompanied by a regular syndrome of
symptoms, and does not, as the sensational fiction-writer
would have us believe, involve the mere application of
chloroform upon a handkerchief to the nostrils and then
the immediate and quiet oblivion of the patient. The
induction of anaesthesia occupies" from six to ten
minutes, sometimes longer, and always initiates a period
of involuntary excitement, which may be accompanied
by considerable struggling. This is dueto depression of
the cerebral centres.




ROYAL VETERINARY COLLEGE 5'3

For the dog we have at our disposal an excellent nar-
cotic in morphine, and its administration prior to anaes-
thetisation greatly facilitates the giving of the anaesthetic
and also reduces this period of excitement. It must be
appreciated that in some dogs, and particularly large
ones, the safe induction of anaesthesia without previous
narcosis is an impossibility.

In this connection one must explain that an animal
under the inﬂuence of morphine is not somnolent, but
is in a state of stupor in which it takes no interest in
external stimuli. Morphine is the best pain-reliever, and
is invaluable in accident cases, particularly where there
are bones broken.

The soporiﬁcs of the coal—tar series, which are so
popular in the human subject, have not much applica-
tion in animals. Their action is most uncertain, and is
usually disappointing. As an exception to this, one
should mention that chloral hydrate is the best pain—
reliever we have for the horse.

The cat is a phenomenally bad subject for narcosis.
Morphine acts as an excitant and the coal—tar agents in
safe doses are most uncertain, and thus for all surgical
interference in this subject chloroform or ether has been
necessary. Great care must be taken in their administra-
tion. Recently, however, there has been introduced into
surgery a new anaesthetic termed “ avertin,” and it has
been our good fortune in the Royal Veterinary College
to demonstrate to the veterinary profession how valuable
an agent this is in the case of the cat, when administered
under expert supervision.

J. G. WRIGHT.

 




 

 

 

 

 

CHAPTER IV
ANIMAL WELFARE IN SOME FOREIGN COUNTRIES

HE animal cause is truly an international con—

cern, and we feel sure that brief accounts of the

conditions of animals abroad will arouse more
than mere academic interest among our members. It
seems best, in this first experimental volume, to deal
with only a few countries, where our kind collaborators
were able to get into personal touch with the animal
protection societies through reliable friends. Subsequent
editors may be able to cast their nets more widely.

It is more than a century since the animal cause
began, with some marked periods of inactivity, to
occupy the thoughts of people in Great Britain; but
many foreign societies are but a few years old. Hence,
as we should expect, they are concerned only with the
immediate problems of cruelty to cattle and domestic
animals; their organisation is incomplete; they have
often not been able to induce their Governments to pass
stringent and well—deﬁned laws relating to animals; they
are often unable to employ paid inspectors, but trust to
voluntary workers to see that the laws of cruelty, etc.,
are carried out. To enlist the help of a large number
of voluntary workers is a wonderful way of arousing
interest; but voluntary workers generally have other
vocations, and while they are engaged in these the
animals may suffer. If we may be so bold as to offer

54




ANIMALS ABROAD 55

advice, we would suggest to foreign societies, who do
not do so, that they should aim at employing well—
supervised, reliable, full-time paid inspectors; it estab-
lishes a tradition.- It is perhaps hardly necessary to remind
our readers that there are no laws for the protection
of animals and no humanitarian societies in many
foreign countries, and that often where such societies
exist in name, they have no unity, inﬂuence, or active
policy. There is much pioneer work to be done by
animal-lovers who possess linguistic ability and the
divine gifts of tact and sympathy.

We notice, as we read the reports of the foreign
societies, how much they look to England for guidance,
and how often they make the English law the pattern
for their suggested reforms. All those interested in the
humanitarian cause in this country should therefore
strain every nerve to avert such a disaster as befell the
Slaughter of Animals Bill (England) at its second
reading in February 1930, and to avoid the fallacy of
allowing temporary economic conditions at any time
to stand in the way of justice to animals. When we
legislate for animals in Great Britain, we may virtually
be legislating at the same time for animals in many
other countries. Let us never forget that. In attacking
the problems connected with cruelty to wild life, such
as the hideous conditions of trapping over wide areas
for furs, it is obvious that the English and American
humanitarian societies must lead the way.

Animal workers in this country can help foreign
societies by sending them appropriate literature, trans-
lated if necessary into the language of the country. Also,

 




 

 

 

 

 

56 THE ANIMAL YEAR-BOOK

when abroad, they might visit the local society, see
something of the work, and encourage the workers.

We hope very much that the representatives of the
foreign societies for the protection of animals, with
whom we have been in communication for the in-
formation contained in the following pages, will keep
in touch with us, and report to us the progress of their
work and any new problems which may arise for them.

C. M. KNIGHT.

I. France

The impression gained from reading the reports of the
French animal welfare societies is that there are a few
intensely keen reformers, but that the general public
has not yet realised the need for humane treatment of
animals, or does not consider the matter seriously.

Animal protection is hindered by the inadequacy of
the Lo-z' Grammont, and even this enactment has largely
fallen into disuse, magistrates being often unwilling to
inﬂict due punishment for obvious cases of cruelty. The
text of the law is as follows: “ Seront punis d’une
amende de cinq a quinze francs, et pourront l’étre de
un :21 cinq jours de prison, ceuX qui auro‘nt exercé
publiquement et abusivement de mauvais traitements
envers les animauX domestiques. La peine de la prison
sera toujours applicable en cas de récidive. L’article
483 du Code Pénal sera toujours applicable.”

M. René Richard has recently formed a fairly strong
parliamentary group of deputies for the promotion of
animal welfare. Its programme and a preliminary list
of names will be found in Le Protecteur des Animcmx

 

 




 

ANIMALS ABROAD 57

for May 1930 (131 Boulevard Saint—Michel, Paris V6;
le numero I fr. so c.; abonnement étranger, un an,
24 fr.) .

A further important development lies in the forma-
tion of the " Comité Juridique International pour la
P.D.A.,” under the presidency of Maitre Louis Lespine.
This body comprises a group of eminent lawyers, one
for each country represented, and publishes a quarterly
bulletin devoted to legislation, leading cases, and legal
theory. (Address, 189. Rue de Vaugirard, Paris XVe).

The attitude of public officials varies greatly. The
press is generally tolerant and helpful, as at Saint—
Etienne and Menton, but at Marseilles and Nimes the
organisers of the bull—ﬁghts subsidise the papers so that
no attack against this abuse can be printed. The schools
are mostly willing to hold occasional lectures on animal
welfare and encourage kindness to pets. Relations with
the veterinary profession are not always so happy as in
England and Scotland.

Amongst private persons much of the ill—treatment
of animals is due to ignorance or carelessness. A com-
mon form of cruelty is the abandoning of cats, and
dogs. People do not take the trouble to drown them in
the litter, and are only willing to feed them as long as
they are amusing playthings, after which they are
turned out on the streets.

Experiments on animals are subject to no legal restric-
tion in France. '

All the secretaries complain of the unnecessary cruelty
in commerce. The French have not followed the Belgian
example in improving the transport of animals. Lambs

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

58 THE ANIMAL YEAR-BOOK

sometimes travel lying on their sides, with their feet
bound together. Often insuﬂicient food and water is
provided for the long journeys, and arrangements are
not made for the proper care of the animals, so that
they arrive completely exhausted or even dead.

Within the towns, horses, mules, and donkeys are
generally well looked after, but, where the drivers are
free from inspection, overloading, kicking, and beating
are not rare occurrences. In Algiers mules are still used
for fetching sand from the beach. They carry a metal
pack—saddle, held on by a chain that chafes their ﬂanks,
and this is loaded with sand to a weight far exceeding
their own. Donkeys are used for the same purpose, and
are worked right up to the time of bearing their young
and immediately after.

The slaughtering of larger animals is still chieﬂy
carried out with thepole—axe (bricbe anglaz'se) . The use
of the humane killer for such animals is extensive in the
Loire department and in private abattoirs, but many
butchers ﬁnd that the French ammunition does not ﬁt
the killer. Pigs, sheep, and calves have their throats cut
without previous stunning, and the smaller animals are
bled to death sometimes without being stunned. In the
country the women do their own killing, for they buy
the birds and rabbits alive, carrying them home head
downwards with their legs tied together.

A large supply of humane killers and ammunition was
recently presented by the R.S.P.C.A. to the abattoir at
Vaugirard, which has been notorious for the cruel con-
ditions of slaughter, and while optimism should be

 

 

 




 

 

ANIMALS ABROAD 59

tempered with caution, it is hoped that this action will
lead to a permanent improvement.

It is a common practice in the north of France to
bleed rabbits by gouging out the eyes, and allegations
are made to the effect that this is often done during full
consciousness. It has been found difficult to obtain
decisive evidence one way or the other on this subject.

The amusements in France cause misery to animals.
At fairs performing beasts are kept in cages, often in
insanitary conditions. One of the worst forms of bar—
barity is the Spanish form of bull—ﬁghting which still
takes place in several cities in South France. The people
are still thrilled by the sight of worn—out horses being
mauled by a goaded bull. Cock-ﬁghting is prevalent in
the north, and shooting at a tethered duck or rabbit is
a fairly common sport.

To prevent these abuses the societies send out in-
spectors to examine the markets and the abattoirs and
to report any cases of cruelty. The prosecution and
ﬁning of delinquents proves a warning to all, so that
charges of ill-treatment are becoming rarer. Clinics and
dispensaries deal with lost animals, either by finding
new homes or by chloroforming them. General propa-
ganda is advanced by the awarding of prizes to school-
children for essays on animal welfare and by the
distribution of medals to those who have specially
helped the cause. Advertising is ingeniously carried out
by some societies. Post cards of a gored horse ridden in
a bull-fight are entitled, " This is the reward for having
served so well.” In some districts, blotting-paper printed
with suitable teth is given to the schools; in Strasbourg

 




 

 

 

60 THE ANIMAL YEAR—BOOK

the hotels are provided with serviette cases marked, " Be
kind to animals.” Petitions and tracts are regularly sent
out. Special ﬁlms are sometimes produced to educate the
children in the care of animals. Unfortunately con-
siderable division exists, and the societies do not present
a united front.

English sympathisers can help the French zoophile
societies by (I) refusing to stay in cities where cruel
sports are practised, and informing hotel—keepers of the
reason for their refusal; (2) presenting good games,
with prizes, to those estaminets which organise cruel
sports; (3) providing propaganda literature suited to
the facts of the situation and the temperament of the
French people. Money should not as a rule be subscribed
for work promised, but only for work actually done.

C. E. HURREN,
Bedford College Brands.

2. Holland

In attempting to describe the work of the animal
welfare societies in Holland, it is difﬁcult to avoid vague
generalisations and sweeping statements. We can only
attempt to summarise the information very kindly fur-
nished by Miss Elisabeth des Tombe, Hon. Secretary to
the Dutch Jack London Club, and also to the
"Nationale Dierenzorg ” Society (Care of Animals).
These are, it seems, the two principal Dutch animal
welfare societies. The Jack London Society deals for
the most part with propaganda. It issues gratis a small
monthly magazine, which is eagerly read. Through this

 

 




 

 

 

ANIMALS ABROAD 61

society appeals which have met with considerable suc-
cess are made to mayors of towns to abolish animal per—
formances. A great part of the “ Nationale Dierenzorg ”
Society’s work also is the circulation of posters, calendars,
and pamphlets for every affiliated society, and the
arranging of exhibitions in schools. SOme of these exhibi-
tions, which prove a great attraction, take the form of
models showing animals under good and bad conditions,
for example, a miniature meadow, with a horse which
has been docked on one side, on the other a horse with a
long tail grazing peacefully, or an illustration showing
how to hold a puppy and how not.

This society is very well organised. It has various sub-
committees which deal with special branches of the
work; for instance, one attends to cattle and poultry
problems, another railway transport, and another inter-
national intercourse, arranging occasional congresses,
and so forth. At the Hague, which is the centre of its
practical activities and where its membership is most
ﬂourishing, it has established clinics and homes for ani-
mals. It also sends out inspectors, who have the right to
take an ill-treated animal from its owner and hand it
over to the society, which keeps it under its own care
or ﬁnds it a good home.

The chief forms of cruelty, our informants tell us, are
the overcrowding of cattle in transport, especially calves
with feet tied, the overloading and docking of horses,
and most of all, dog-traction, of which the police take
comparatively little notice, and which as yet no law has
been able to prevent. Some good laws do exist, humane
slaughter in particular being ensured.

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

62 THE ANIMAL YEAR-BOOK

The general public is on the whole indifferent to the
animal welfare societies, but there is naturally a cer-
tain number of animal—lovers who give them their en—
thusiastic support. The vegetarians are also fairly
numerous. The press helps to a certain extent, but does
not favour extreme measures. The Governors of some
schools give their support; but the university authori-
ties unfortunately are entirely indifferent.

The Dutch Societies were pleased to know of the
organisation in our University, and the interest we are
taking in their work.

J. S. MacCORMACK.
D. Wesley.
Westﬁeld College.

3. Germany
We have received from the Munich Animal Protection
Society (“ Munchner Thierschutzverein”) a number
of pamphlets, from which it appears that this society
has, since I 926, been continuously advocating humane
slaughter, and that largely as a result of its agitation the
Bavarian Parliament has recently passed a law which
came into force on October I, 1930, making it compul-
sory for cattle, sheep, goats, horses, donkeys, mul€S, and
dogs to be Stunned before being bled. Several other
States in Germany have for years past forbidden the
use of the pole—axe, and introduced compulsorY em-
ployment of mechanical killers. Considerable discussion
has taken place in Germany on the subject of the Jewish

(schachita) method of slaughter.

 




 

ANIMALS ABROAD ’ 63

The procedure is not uniform; throughout Germany;
the Munich Animal Protection Society is further work~
ing for the tightening up of regulations for the better
treatment of animals previous to slaughter, as in cattle
driving, etc. In the State of Anhalt regulations in regard
to compulsory stunning apply also to rabbits and
poultry, while in Schleswig-Holstein ﬁsh are included.

We learn further from some of these publications
that compulsory stunning of all animals, previous to
bleeding, has been enforced in Switzerland since 189 3,
as a result of a Referendum—a terrible reﬂection upon
our own tardy recognition of the cruelty involved in
slaughtering without such regulations. Similar protec-
tion has been afforded in Norway to domestic animals,
including tame reindeer, since 1929.

On the whole, it will be seen that the German Societies
have shown commendable energy in drawing attention
to the subject of humane slaughter.

P. HAAs.

[A questionnaire dealing with various matters of animal
welfare and written in German, which was addressed
to the Deutsc‘ber Thiersc/Juzfzverem at Berlin more than
siX months ago, has evoked no reply.———ED.]

4. I taly

Owing to the diﬂiculty of obtaining information from
local societies, it seemed best in dealing with Italy to use
the material contained in the report of the Hawksley
Society for the Protection of Animals and Birds in

 

 




 

 

 

 

64 THE ANIMAL YEAR—BOOK

Italy. This is an English Society with its committee in
London, and is operative ‘throughout Italy. It was
founded in 1927 to resume some of the work which had
been abandoned by the Rome Society for the Protection
of Animals, when the latter, after the resignation of
Mr. Hawksley owing to ill—health, almost came to an
ignominious end. The Hawksley Society does not work
in any special district, but encourages and helps local
Italian societies everywhere. It never, however, in any
circumstances gives actual ﬁnancial assistance, but pre—
fers to help in material ways, for instance, refunding the
wages or part—wages paid to, or supplying the uniform
for inspectors, supplying humane killers, drinking
troughs, etc. In judicial or police-court prosecutions,
and in attempts to improve legislation it always acts
through an Italian society.

The condition of animals is bad in Italy, as it is
throughout southern Europe. The treatment of the
animals always appears to the English and American
visitor the worst blot on the Italian national character.
It is indeed surprising, among a people so charming to
foreigners and apparently so kind in the care of their
children, that there should be not only general apathy
but so much determined and organised cruelty to
animals. Whatever his political views, everyone must
admit that Italy has made vast economic strides under
the direction of Mussolini. Perhaps it is not idle to hope
that the same wisdom at some time will be directed to
the cause of animals; that the law for the protection
of animals will be carried out more efficiently and that
it will be improved and extended to bring it at least

 

 

 




 

 

 

ANIMALS ABROAD '65

into line with the laws regulating the treatment of
animals which prevail in England and America.

The Hawksley Society has been instrumental in dealing
with common cases of kicking, beating, and overloading
horses, oxen, etc., or keeping them in ﬁlthy stables;
in conﬁscating spiked curbs, ill—ﬁtting harness, etc.;
in obtaining some improvement in the barbarous treat-
ment of the oxen working in the marble quarries at
Carrara; in checking, when possible, the carrying of
lambs, calves, chicken with their feet tied together
head downwards; in suppressing the use of blinded birds,
for the trade in which Assisi was the centre; in prose-
cutions for plucking birds alive, for netting birds in the
close season, and in conﬁscating bird—traps, catapults,
etc. It secured two convictions against trainers of the
Royal Swedish Circus in Rome in January 1928 for
ill-treating performing dogs and tigers. Cow-baiting in
Rome was suppressed through Mr. Hawksley’s efforts in
1922, and the society was successful in inducing the
authorities to forbid a revival of this cruelty in May
1927. In spite of this prohibition, however, in the neigh—
bourhood of Rome throughout the summer this hideous
amusement and other cruel “ sports,” such as. shooting
at a rabbit hung head downwards, throwing live ducks
into the river for swimmers to tear to pieces, climbing
a greasy pole and trying to pluck off the head of a live
goose hung at the top head downwards, racing riderless
horses, from whose ﬂanks are hung spiked leaden balls
which spur them the more the faster they run, and bet-
ting on the results, take place every Sunday and holiday.
The Rome Society has been reluctant so far to interfere

5

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

66 THE ANIMAL YEAR-BOOK

in these, in spite of a promise by the Hawksley Society
to refund all expenses.

The municipal dog pound at Catania, which was in
a terrible condition, where the dogs were herded
together without food or water during the four days
that they were kept at the disposal of their owners and
then, if unclaimed, barbarously put to death, has been
taken over by the local society, while the Hawksley
Society has provided a lethal chamber, and will pay
half the cost of building new outside kennels. The
Hawksley Society has erected drinking troughs and tubs
in various places, and arranged for their cleansing; it
has put up bird-nesting boxes, and in this it now has
the co—operation of the Committee for the Protection of
Birds useful to Agriculture, founded inMilan in I 928.

The HaWksley Society engages an Italian lady to carry
on humane education in the elementary schools in
Rome. It also supplies Italian translations of animal
books by English and American authors at cost price to
school libraries and public libraries; there are very few
similar books by Italian authors. It has also presented to
public libraries goo copies of Grillo’s Glz' orrori del Se-
colo, which deals with slaughter, trapping, vivisection,
CtC.

The Hawksley Society has been instrumental in the
introduction of humane slaughter in Rome, Florence,
and twenty-eight other towns and villages in Italy. It
has established in co—operation with Italian veterinary
surgeons free dispensaries for the treatment of sick
animals in Catania, Boscoreale (2% miles from Pompeii) ,
Rome, Carrara, and several other towns.

 

 

 

 




 

 

ANIMALS ABROAD 67

No law for the protection of animals in general has
been passed in Italy since the Act of I913. A bill for the
restriction of Vivisection was passed in 1927; it was
based on the English act, but so mutilated in committee
that it made the position worse than before. The new
act allows unrestricted Vivisection to be practised any-
where on all animals, except mammals and birds; it does
not order the anaesthetisation of any animal; it has
abolished the necessity of applying to Ministries for a
licence. There have been a few decrees dealing with
birds, but generally not to the advantage of the bird.
The netting of sparrows in wheat-growing districts is
authorised all the year round; and the netting and snar—
ing of song-birds is recognised except in prescribed
periods.

It is generally admitted, by Italians as well as English,
that any improvement in animal conditions in Italy
or in the attitude of the Italians towards their animals
is due entirely to the constant effort and the brilliant
and tactful organising ability of Mr. Hawksley. He
has been working in Italy for more than thirty years
and in spite of ill-health never spares himself in his
local work or in the attendance at animal conferences.
When Mr. Hawksley started work in Italy in 189 5 there
were four Societies for the Protection of Animals, all
more or less dormant; now there are thirty—two, mostly

active.
C. M. KNIGHT.

5. Greece

Our thanks are due to Mr. Chr. Kessary, the well-
known Greek journalist in London, for putting us into

 




 

 

 

 

 

68 THE ANIMAL YEAR-BOOK

touch with the Society for the Protection of Animals
in Athens, and to M. Philon and Mr. Miller, members
of the Committee of that society, for supplying the
information for the following account of its work.

The Society for the Protection of Animals in Athens,
of which the present membership is about 450, and is
increasing rapidly, was ﬁrst founded in I 916; but very
soon after that date its Animals’ Hospital was com-
mandeered by the Government, and its practical work
was brought almost to an end (we have to remember
that ﬁghting continued in the Balkans long after the
war had ceased for us). This inactivity continued
until two years ago, when the hospital was returned to
the possession of its owners and reorganised. It is good
to hear that the Greek Government has recognised the
claims of the society for compensation. As a result of
all the upheavals of war the society has really existed
as an active body only for two years.

In addition to the work in the Animals’ Hospital,
which is under veterinary supervision, the society
opened in June I 929 a Dogs’ Refuge, which is said to
be one of the ﬁnest in southern Europe, and has been
entrusted by the Government with the task of collect-
ing stray dogs, an arrangement comparable to that
existing here between Our Dumb Friends’ League
and" the English Government. In the ﬁrst nine
months over 3,000 dogs were collected, of which
more than a third were restored to their owners,
and the rest painlessly destroyed. The society
does not employ paid inspectors, but all members
are entitled, by virtue of their possession of the

 

 




 

ANIMALS ABROAD 69

card of membership, to invoke the intervention of
the police in cases of cruelty to animals. The society
enjoys the warm support of the head of the police, who
is represented on its committee. We must remind
readers that the Greek police force is now being trained
on English lines by an ofﬁcer sent out from this country,
and is becoming a very efﬁcient body and very different
from the old gendarmerie. In cases of cruelty discovered
by the intervention of their members, the society
prosecutes, and endeavours to obtain the maximum
penalty for the offence. It is hoping to obtain a second
motor-car for the collection of animals in Athens,1 and
to erect drinking fountains, much needed in the hot dry
Greek summers. The society is engaged in promoting
the formation of branches in other Greek cities.

For propaganda the cinematograph is used, and lec-
tures are given by members in the " Athens College ”
and other places. It is not possible yet to hold large
public meetings, because the people in general are not
accustomed or educated to it. The press, however, is
very sympathetic, especially in Athens, and has been a
useful organ of propaganda. The Government, at the
request of the society, recently sent a circular to all the
schools, ordering them to give lessons on the care of
animals.

At the invitation of the Government the society made
various proposals and submitted copies of the laws

1 We read in the Morning Post of August 8, I950, that M.
Venizelos, who is keenly interested in animals, recently visited the
Dogs’ Refuge, and hearing of the need of a second motor-car
summoned the Mayors of Athens and the Piraeus to consider
the matter with him at once.

 




 

 

 

 

 

70 THE ANIMAL YEAR-BOOK

affecting animals in Great Britain and Cyprus for the
purpose of. drafting a Bill for amending and extending
the law of 1917 for the Protection of Animals. The
measure is expected to come up shortly in the Greek
Parliament. There is especially need for a more stringent
law against excessive loading, a very common cruelty
in Greece, and the use of animals when in an unﬁt con-
dition. Some of the crueltievs in the methods of loading
cattle; especially the raising of oxen by their horns,
ought to be made illegal. It is illegal in Greece to carry
chickens and small animals by their bound feet, head
downwards, but during a recent tour in Greece the
present writer found that this law is generally ignored.
Jockeys who whip their horses excessively on the race-
course are subject to fines.

If we may, we would suggest to the Greek Society that
it should at some time consider the use of the mechanical
humane killer for the slaughter of animals for food, and
that it should look into the methods used for the de-
struction of rabbits, rats, and other pests in Greece, and
to see if they are as humane as possible. Our methods
in England certainly still leave much to be desired. The
present writer is an anti—vivisectionist, but is of opinion
that in all countries where vivisection is practised it
should be regulated by law. There is no such law in
Greece.

All humane workers in England will wish to con-
gratulate the Society for the Protection of Animals in
Athens on the splendid work which it is doing, and
on the recognition which it has evidently won from
the present liberal and broad-minded Government in




ANIMALS ABROAD 71

Greece. The University of London Animal Welfare
Society especially will continue to follow its future
efforts with keen interest. We shall be glad to hear that
branches of the Athenian Society or separate humane
societies have been started in other parts of Greece. An
improvement in the law dealing with animals is unlikely
to be really effective unless it is accompanied by more
extensive humane education and propaganda.

C. M. KNIGHT.

6. Spain
We are indebted to Miss J. Perry, M.A., lecturer in
Spanish at King’s College, for communicating with the
Society for the Protection of Animals in Madrid, and
to M. Joaquin Julia, the Hon. Secretary of that Society,
for courteously answering our questionnaire and send-
ing a good deal of literature.

The Madrid Society has existed for ﬁve years, and is
organised by a very enthusiastic and courageous secre-
tary. The animal protection societies in all countries
at present represent the opinion of the minority; but
while in most countries they have to contend against
the apathy, thoughtlessness, and ignorance of the
majority, in Spain they encounter in addition active
hostility. The Cardinal Primate of Spain has lately for-
bidden the Catholics to join the Bands of Mercy, which
has, of course, deﬁnitely ended for the present all
humanitarian teachingin the elementary schools. It
seems to us a very severe blow to the animal cause

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

72 THE ANIMAL YEAR-BOOK

there; for in Spain, where the sensibilities of the adults
are so blunted by the brutality of the bull-ring, the only
hope for deﬁnite and lasting reform is in the children.
It is unfortunate that the animal movement should any—
where be regarded as a religious or political weapon.

In spite of such set-backs the Madrid Society marches
on, very much in advance, we fear, of public opinion in
Spain. It organises competitions and prizes for literary
or journalistic work directed to the encouragement
of the protection of animals and plants. It awards a
medal for any deed of valour in connection with
animals. It holds public meetings, if possible with a
royal princess as president, in order to get some notice
by the press. The society is constantly aiming at
humanitarian legislation; it is interested in the question
of humane slaughter; it is anxious to establish dis-
pensaries for sick animals; it extends its protection when
possible to wild life, for instance, it saved the black
vulture fro-m the extermination which threatened it
from the vandalism of an Englishman who collected its
eggs, and on another occasion it succeeded in getting a
law passed forbidding the sale of fried birds in Madrid
eating—houses, thus stopping the netting of wild birds
by many thousands a day. Unfortunately, it does not
employ paid inspectors. The members are entitled by
their card of membership to act in that capacity.

The Madrid Society had been instrumental in bringing
about certain reforms in the bull—ﬁghts, in the com-
pulsory use of the petos (protective breast-plates) for
horses; in the suppression of the capeas (i.e. the village
bull-ﬁghts, in which cruelties are practised a hundred

 




 

ANIMALS ABROAD 73

times worse than those which occur in the bull-ring);
in the abolition of ﬁre-darts; in making it illegal for
children under fourteen years of age to attend a bull—
ﬁght. How many of these reforms are still in existence
we cannot say. We gather, from reports in English
newspapers in the first week of July I930, that the new
Spanish Government has reintroduced ﬁre-darts, but
whether it has rescinded all the other reforms we do not
know. We have written to the Madrid Society about

this, but have had no reply.
C. M. KNIGHT.

7. N art/o Africa

Enormous numbers of pack-animals (horses, mules,
donkeys, and camels) are used by the Arabs to trans-
port all kinds of merchandise from one town to another,
and to and from market. For generations these thou—
sands of animals have suffered pitiably; they live on the
coarsest and scantiest rations—straw, eked out by a
meagre allowance of barley—and they are shamefully
overloaded. Young animals are worked before their bones
have hardened, and the legs become permanently bent,
so that the knees rub together. They are goaded with
nails, packing-needles, sharpened sticks, or whatever
comes handy. The pack—saddles are made of straw
covered by sacking; the harness bands of plaited esparto
grass. Both are so harsh and ill-ﬁtting that sores quickly
form, and as these are left entirely untended they
develop into deep abscesses and ﬁstulas.

The Society for the Protection of Animals in North
Africa was formed in I923 to deal with these evils, and

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

74 THE ANIMAL YEAR-BOOK

now has seven branches in different towns in Algeria
and Tunis.

At Algiers a clinic is maintained where many dogs and
cats, which have been run over in the streets, are brought
in; numbers of strays are painlessly destroyed. The
streets and stables in the town and surrounding suburbs
are inspected, and horses suffering from sores and
injuries are removed to the clinic for treatment. Tours
of inspection extending throughout the Department of
Algeria have been made, and numerous reforms insti-
tuted. The large cattle and sheep market at Maison
Carrée is kept under observation, and the time of trans—
porting animals from Oran to Maison Carrée has been
reduced from four or five days to forty- eight hours;
formerly, many animals arrived dead from suffocation
and thirst, and others had their legs broken while being
got 0H the trains.

At Tunis the society has a hospital where an average
of ﬁfteen horses, mules, and donkeys are under treat—
ment as in-patients. Numbers are brought for Out-
patient treatment, and large numbers of dogs and cats
are dealt with. A horse ambulance has been provided,
and this is frequently called out to fetch horses and
mules injured by collisions with motors; these are
removed to the hospital, and are operated on or stitched
up, or if mortally wounded are taken to the abattoir.
Many old and decrepit animals, which would be worked
by the Arabs until they dropped dead, are humanely
destroyed.

Hospital work is also carried out at Sousse, Gabes,
Biskra, and Tiaret, and numbers of Arab villages and

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

ANIMALS ABROAD 75

markets are visited, where ﬁrst-aid treatment is given
for sores and injuries, and simple dressings are sold to
the Arabs at a nominal price.

Dogs suffer greatly in the fourrie‘res (pounds) , where
they are often kept for days without food or water
until destroyed or reclaimed by their owners. The dogs
in the Oran and Tunis fourrie‘res are being fed by the
society, and the kennels have been enlarged at the
Algiers fourrz'e‘re, and the drainage improved. At
Bougie and several other places the unclaimed dogs
were destroyed by being hung up in a wire noose, which
caused slow strangulation, lasting over an hour. This
has been prohibited by law, and the dogs are now
destroyed by a veterinary surgeon.

The use of the “ serrette,” a band of iron with sharp
teeth which was applied to the noses of horses, mules,
and donkeys, has also been prohibited, and convictions
have been secured against persons using it. Various
barbarous “ sports,” carried on by Arabs and Spaniards,
such as setting dogs to ﬁght, allowing several dogs to
set on and kill a cat, etc., have been unearthed, and the
perpetrators punished. A scheme for holding bull-ﬁghts
in Algiers in connection with the Centenary celebrations
has been frustrated.

The practice of carrying chicken head downwards,
either tied in bunches to the pack-saddle, or hawked
about the streets by hand, is being vigorously fought.

Humane education is being carried on as far as pos-
sible: cinema meetings and lantern lectures illustrating
humane work in England, and kindness to animals
generally, have been given to thousands of school-

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

76 THE ANIMAL YEAR-BOOK

children (Arab, French, Italian, and Jewish) in Tunis,
Algiers, and elsewhere, and cards and leaﬂets have been
distributed.

A silver medal is awarded by the society to persons
in North Africa who risk their own lives in endeavour-
ing to help animals; up to the present ﬁve medals have
been awarded—three to Europeans and two to natives.

The condition of the animals in the districts where the
society works has undergone a marked improvement.
The Arabs are grateful for the treatment which is given
(free of charge in the case of poor owners) to their
animals. The children are keenly interested in animals,
and there is reason to hope that if humane education
could be more systematically carried on, the present
thoughtless cruelty would change to intelligent care and
consideration.

The greatest difﬁculties are the scarcity of good
animal welfare workers in North Africa, and the
immense size of the country. The society’s branches are
scattered over a coastal distance of nearly 900 miles,
and cover an area several times the size of England.
Communication between the towns is slow and difficult
compared with that available in Britain, and ﬁnancial
support has to be drawn almost entirely from England

and America.

Visitors to North Africa can render valuable helpby
visiting the branches, interesting themselves in the
work, and encouraging the workers.

NINA HOSALI,
H 01¢. Sec. of Society for Protection of Animals
of N. Africa.

 

 

 




 

 

 

ANIMALS ABROAD _77

8. Canada (the District of Ontario)

Our thanks are due to Miss Edith Werden, of Toronto,
Ontario, for calling on Mr. J. Macnab Wilson, the
Secretary of the Toronto Humane Society, and to the
latter for answering the questionnaire, which we sub—
mitted, and sending us literature.

The membership of the Toronto Humane Society is
at present about 2,000 in Toronto itself, and is still
growing. The society enjoys the sympathy 0f the public
authorities and the press, of the universities and schools,
and of the clergy. A new building, with kennels, etc.,
attached, has recently been erected in Toronto at a cost
of over $50,000, which serves as a centre for the eX-
tensive practical work of the society; emergency calls
within a radius of 25 miles are answered and the
demands made on this great centre of humane work
can be estimated from the fact that it receives approxi-
mately 300 telephone calls each day. The society main-
tains eight full—time inspectors, and encourages branches
and subsidiary societies to aim at employing at least
one inspector in each district—a method of which we
cordially approve. The inspectors have usually, owing
to their status, been more successful than the police in
detecting cases of cruelty, and especially in gaining
ingress to a building where it is suspected that an animal
is being ill-treated—a demand which is allowed by
Canadian law. The society maintains a veterinary service
for emergency cases and for the inspection of diseased
animals. Bird-houses, made by the Canadian—Indians,
are sold at the society’s oﬂices, and people are encouraged
to put these in their gardens.

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

78 THE ANIMAL YEAR—BOOK

In addition to its practical work, the Toronto Humane
Society engages in educational work and maintains pro-
paganda. As a result of its efforts a regular period is
devoted each week in many State schools to humane
education. There exists too a Junior Humane Society
for children. It also provides lecturers and arranges lec—
tures on humane subjects; classes are held to instruct
carters, delivery—men, etc., on the practical care of their
horses. The society publishes a monthly magazine, The
Humane Pleader (10 cents a copy, $1 a year), which
is its publicity organ, and which in addition to the
ordinary stories, etc., gives a good deal of information on
humane problems and occasionally on the practical care
of pets and domestic animals. It seems, from the copies
which we have received, to be one of the best animal
periodicals in the English language.

The Toronto Humane Society issues a little brochure
of I6 small pages, which is a model of conciseness;
in addition to deﬁning “ cruelty,” giving advice about
the procedure for inaugurating and for organising anti-
cruelty societies, and notes on practical suggestions
about animals, it gives a brief account of the law in
Canada as it affects animals. It is interesting to note a
few points in this last. Anyone who wilfully attempts
to kill or injure cattle is guilty of an indictable offence
and liable to two years’ imprisonment; anyone who wil—
fully kills or injures any animal or bird (other than
cattle) kept in a state of confinement or kept for any
lawful purpose, is guilty of an offence, and liable to a
penalty not exceeding $100 over and above the amount
of injury done, or to three months’ imprisonment. Other

 

 

 




 

 

 

ANIMALS ABROAD ‘ 79

forms of cruelty, negligence in care of cattle or domestic
animal, bird, or wild animal in captivity, or causing un-
necessary suffering to these in transport, or encouraging
or assisting at ﬁghting or baiting of any bull, bear,
badger, dog, cock, or other animal, make the offender
liable to a ﬁne of $50 or three months’ imprisonment.

The law lays down very strict injunctions with regard
to the transport of cattle (watering, feeding, and resting
en route) , which are especially necessary in the vast area
of Canada. “ The Provincial(Ontario) Act I 9 I 9 for the
Prevention of Cruelty to Animals ” legalises the
society’s procedure; we notice that a police ofﬁcer or
an inspector of the society has legal authority to
enter premises where he has reason to suppose there is
neglect of or cruelty to any animal. There is also “ The
Injured Animals Act of 191 I.” It is interesting to note
that the land~ and buildings of the Toronto Humane
Society are exempt from taxation. .

Apart from trapping, which, of course, a society in
Canada cannot attempt to tackle single-handed, though
it may and does promote fur-farming, the principal
form of cruelty in the Dominion seems to be in the
transport of cattle, which is so difﬁcult to regulate and
inspect over such long distances. This problem is occupy-
ing a good deal of the attention of the Toronto Humane
Society. The society is also working for more stringent
laws against cruelty, and particularly for the raising of
the maximum ﬁne to $200. We have received no in-
formation about the methods of slaughtering animals
for food in Canada.

The Toronto Humane Society impresses us as a very

____._.¢._..«W — '\

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

80 THE ANIMAL YEAR-BOOK

active and extremely well-organised body, and we wish
it continued success. It has not been possible to obtain
information from other parts of Canada; but this defect
may be remedied in subsequent volumes of the
Animal Year Book. Conditions in the far west of Canada
will be particularly interesting to us for comparison with
what we have learned of the east through the courtesy

of the most active society there.
C. M. KNIGHT.

9. Australia (the State of Victoria)
We are indebted to Mr. S. G. West, B.A., of King’s

College, for communicating with the Victoria SoCiety
for the Protection of Animals, and to Mr. A. T. Latham,
the Secretary and Chief Inspector of this society, for his
kindness in answering our questionnaire, and in sending
the reports and balance sheets of the last three years,
as well as some specimens of the literature which it
publishes. ’

The Victoria Society for the Protection of Animals
was founded ﬁfty-eight years ago, and its present mem—
bership is something over 1,500. Its work extends
throughout the State of Victoria; four full-time in—
spectors are employed, to whom is added the voluntary
help of deﬁnitely appointed honorary agents, honor-
ary solicitors, and nine veterinary surgeons. The in—
spectors and hon. agents attend at cattle markets and
the wharves to prevent overloading and overdriving,
and especially to see that the laws, which regulate the
conditions of travelling stock, are carried out. They also

 




 

ANIMALS ABROAD '81

watch for the stupid and harmful practice of over-
stocking cows, and the society sends circulars to auc-
tioneers and judges, requesting them to deal with
milking cows first. The problem of neglected and aban—
doned animals seems even more acute in Australia than in
this country, probably because animals are more numer-
ous there, and accordingly are held by some to be of
very little account. A sequel to the advent of the cheap
motor—car is the number of aged horses sent astray to
die of starvation and disease. All animals come within
the scope of the society’s protection, and we are told
that it has on occasion prosecuted for cruelty to rabbits
and rats. The society has always taken an active interest
in humane slaughter, and a few years ago was instru—
mental in introducing the Cash captive bolt pistol,
which is used in all the metropolitan areas. It is at
present investigating the German method of stunning
by electricity, and would welcome any satisfactory in-
formation on this. There are no laws in Australia dealing
with the training of performing animals; but the Jack
London Club ’is very active there, and in Victoria alone
has a membership of over 1,500. For eight years the
Victoria Society has been working for the improvement
of the law dealing with cruelty, and has drafted a bill
which seeks to prohibit the cruel practice of keeping a
dog continually on the chain; the use of the overhead
check rein; the selling or disposal of unﬁt horses, except
for the purpose of slaughter; the hunting of any captive
animal that has not a reasonable chance of escape; trap-
shooting, a particularly diabolical kind of “ sport”;
the indiscriminate laying of poison on public roads. -
Another provision is that it shall be possible for the
6

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

82 THE ANIMAL YEAR-BOOK

Bench to deprive an owner of an animal of his owner-
ship if it can be proved that it is likely to expose it
to further cruelty. Unfortunately, the society has not
yet had an opportunity of carrying through this bill
owing to many changes of government. The society
has now its own building in Melbourne, a home of rest
for horses, and a dogs’ home with lethal chamber at-
tached. It is interesting to note that it has a small annual
Government grant. In spite of rapidly improving con-
ditions the society dealt with nearly 3,000 cases of
cruelty and carried through 120 prosecutions during
the year ending June I929.

The Victoria Society makes propaganda a very im-
portant part of its work. For this it ﬁnds the press as a
whole sympathetic, and the teachers in the schools of
very great assistance. Some years ago, it instituted a
League of Kindness for the children, which now has a
membership of about 50,000. It gives two scholarships
each year for competition among members of this league,
who write an essay on an animal subject under examina-
tion conditions and under the supervision of the ofﬁcers
of the Education Department. This encourages deﬁnite
humane education in the elementary schools. With the
exception of its annual business meeting the society
does not hold public meetings, but prefers to do its
propaganda individually through its inspectors and
numerous honorary agents, and by its leaﬂets, which deal
with the practical care of animals (horses, cattle, dogs,
and cats), as well as the claims of animals to just treat-
ment.

To the end of each annual report is appended the Police

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

ANIMALS ABROAD 83

Offences Act 1915, relating to the protection of
animals.

It is interesting to note the amount of the maximum
penalty for offences under this act, which rises from
£10 or a month’s imprisonment for the first offence,
to £50 or siX months’ imprisonment for the third and
subsequent offences; but the society complains that
magistrates often fail to realise what a detestable crime
cruelty is, and are reluctant to inﬂict the maximum
penalty. It is also noteworthy that it is permitted by
this act to any person whatsoever to enter, without in-
curring a charge for trespassing, premises where animals
are conﬁned in a slaughter—yard, pen, cage, hut, etc.,
if there is reason to believe that these animals are in-
sufficiently provided with fit food and water; the
person who provides food in such a case can recover
the cost from the owner of the animals in the Court of
Petty Sessions.

The regulations for vivisection are very much the same
as in this country. The trapping of rabbits 18 made com-

pulsory by the Government. There was recently a very
strong public protest because the Government proclaimed
an open season for opossums; the press supported public
opinion, but without effect. It seems that a rise in the
price of opossum skins always encourages an unscrupu—
lous section of the farmers to complain to the Govern-
ment that these animals are becoming too numerous
and destructive to crops! The Government then gener—
ally declares an open season. These dishonest people
thereupon scatter poison pellets made of flour, liquorice
and cyanide in the roads and the bush, catch the opos—

 




 

 

 

 

84 THE ANIMAL YEAR-BOOK

sums, and get their proﬁt. The poison, however, causes
the destruction of not only the opossums but also a good
many other animals and birds. The invention of a more
humane trap or snare for rabbits is occupying attention
in Australia as much as in England.

The activity of the Victoria Society for the Protection
of Animals is very pleasing, and a comparison between
its special problems and methods of organising its
work with those of humane societies in other States of
the Commonwealth will be an interesting task for a
subsequent edition of the Animal Year-book. Any
readers who are particularly interested in Australian
ﬂora and fauna and the conditions and problems con—
nected with animal life in that country will ﬁnd a
good deal of information in Save Australia (published
by Macmillan, 1925) (see review, p. 112). We wish
the Victoria Society for the Protection of Animals the
continued success which it deserves.

C. M. KNIGHT.

IO. Tlae United States of America

For the following brief résumé of the problems in
connection with the protection of animals in America
we are indebted to Mr. N. J. Walker, the General
Manager of the American Humane Association, Albany,
N.Y. This Association is a federation of the individual
Societies for the Protection of Children and of Animals
throughout the United States, and acts in an advisory
capacity when local societies request information as to
procedure, etc. Legal prosecutions, in cases referred

 




ANIMALS ABROAD 85

directly to the association, are arranged with the
society that has jurisdiction in the State in which the
case arises. The Humane Association carries on very
active propaganda. It publishes each month The
National Humane Review (price 10 cents), an excel-
lent organ of the humanitarian movement in the United
States; it publishes also many leaﬂets dealing with such
subjects as the care of pets and domestic animals; sug—
gestions for the guidance of local societies in organising
the “ Be Kind to Animals Week ” held each year;
nature—study; the need to protect birds, of which many
are of great value to the nation, and which are fast
becoming extinct through the depredations of man;
trapping; the rodeo, and some of the worst cruelties.

The association makes humane education a very im—
portant part of its work, emphasising the importance
of this in the building of character and the training of
the child for citizenship. In this connection it publishes
a series of interesting pamphlets, graded according to
the school years, which suggest that humane education
does not require specially allotted periods, but can be
made fundamental in many school subjects, such as
nature-study and civics, and auxiliary often in reading,
composition, drama, literature, geography, and music.
Generally it is found that the teachers are eager to
co—operate in this way in the humane movement.

For adult education the association uses the radio;
last year forty talks were given on such subjects as
feeding animals, stabling, trapping, etc. This is surely
the kind of propaganda 'which we in England might
use more extensively. The association organises a

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

86 THE ANIMAL YEAR—BOOK

Humane Sunday; but, with a few brilliant and
outstanding exceptions like Dr. Parkes Cadman,
the clergy are generally rather apathetic. The press
is generally very favourable, and some local papers
regularly give an allotted space to the news of their
Humane Society. The Humane Association publishes an
interesting leaﬂet of these press—cuttings. The veterinary
surgeons are generally helpful, and often give voluntary
service to their local societies, making examinations,
treating animals, and going into court to testify with-
out charge. The annual meeting of the Humane Associ-
ation is generally in the form of a public meeting;
many local societies hold public meetings as often as
possible. In most States the Society for the Protection
of Animals enjoys the help and co-operation of the
police; the Humane Association regularly furnishes
literature to the libraries of the police—rooms, and is
represented on. the State Police School staff. Most of
the local societies maintain one or more inspectors. The
Humane Association encourages this; it is an erroneous
belief that anti—cruelty laws are enough. The law is only
effectively enforced in places where there is a strong
local society: for there is often ignorance of the law;
the police ofﬁcers have many other duties; the work of
a humane inspector needs a special training and should
be a full-time employment.

In most, if not all, of the States the law for the pro-
tection of domestic animals is stringent and clear; but
the weakness is the inability to enforce the statutes in
the more sparsely settled communities. The Humane
Association is‘ making determined efforts to make the




ANIMALS ABROAD 87

cropping of do-gs’ ears illegal, and in some States it has
been successful. A most urgent need in the United
States is legislation to stop the practice of impounding
animals, such as bears, etc., in small cages by roadside
restaurants and stands. There also, as in every other 7
country, additional legislation for the protection of wild,
life is urgently needed. '

The American Humane Association is one of the very
few general societies for the protection of animals
which has studied and issued literature on the vast and
generally legalised cruelty of trapping for furs over
wide areas. As elsewhere, the trap generally used is the
steel leg-gripping type, a most diabolical invention of
man, involving suffering which is one of the worst blots
on modern civilisation. The Humane Association is try-
ing, by a competition each year, to secure a trap for
taking animals alive and unhurt. Some progress is re-
ported. The association has secured a law in New York
State also which requires that all traps bear the
owner’s name and that they should be visited once
in twenty-four hours; it has also been instrumental
in making the pole—trap illegal. The cruelty of
trapping is also being fought by the Anti-Steel-Trap
League of America, founded by the late Commander
Breck (see also p. 90). This society, which pub—
lishes literature, carries on extensive propaganda, and
aims at establishing committees throughout Canada and
the United States, proposes to bring about the passing
of a law by all the State and Provincial Legislatures
making illegal all use of the torturing steel trap and
other non-killing devices for taking fur, and making

 




 

 

 

 

88 THE ANIMAL YEAR-BOOK

the extermination of vermin the work of the public
authorities and not of the private trapper.

The use of the steel trap has recently been prohibited
in South Carolina, Georgia and Massachusetts as a result
of the efforts of the Anti-Steel—Trap League, and it is
hoped that the prohibition will be duly enforced.

Animals slaughtered for food are killed by stunning
methods, which have been in vogue for years in
America, but mechanically operated stunning instru—
ments do not appear to be in use. Noxious animals are
killed by shooting or poisoning; unwanted domestic
animals are destroyed by carbon-monoxide gas, or in
some districts by the electric killer.

Cock—fighting and pigeon-shooting are illegal in most
of the States, but many other so-called sports in which
cruelty is involved still exist. Among these the Humane
Association condemns especially the rodeo, wild west
shows, fox—hunting, monkey races, and rabbit coursing.
In particular, the rodeo is stupid and artiﬁcial in char—
acter, and for the cruelty and suffering which it inﬂicts
on the animals not only at the actual exhibition but in
the long practices which precede it, and in its brutal-
ising effect on the crowd of spectators, is rightly con—
demned by all humane societies in America, which are
making its suppression one of their chief aims.

The position with regard to performing animals is in
America very much the same as in this country, and
there, as here, there is undoubtedly a growing sentiment
against these exhibitions.

 

 

 




 

 

ANIMALS ABROAD 89

It would have been interesting to include in this
summary information from local societies in the United
States, had not space made that impossible. It must be
left to a subsequent volume of the Year—book. The
advantages of an organising society like the American

_Humane Association are obvious, for it not only builds

up weak societies and organises new societies, but by its
prestige it is able to discourage a waste of energy in
the formation of rival local societies. A society of this
character is certainly a desideratum in some other
countries.

C. M. KNIGHT.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

CHAPTER V
SOME PROBLEMS OF THE PRESENT DAY

I. THE FUR TRADE

I I ‘HAT extreme cruelty is involved in the fur

trade is scarcely contested, though various pleas
' have been put forward in mitigation of the
charge. In London alone about twenty million trapped
furs are auctioned in the course of a year, and the lin—

gering punishment suffered by most of the animals is
roughly comparable to cruciﬁxion.

Besides being of humanitarian interest, this subject con-

cerns conservationists, certain species (silver fox, chin-
chilla, etc.) having become nearly or quite extinct in
the wild state. The Canadian Government has been
obliged to limit the export of furs.

Information may be obtained from the Anti-Steel.—
Trap League, 1731 K Street, Washington, D.C., and
the American Humane Association, 80 Howard Street,
Albany, N.Y. (from the zoophile point of view) , while
trade information is given in Furs and the Fur Trade,
by J. C. Sachs (Pitman) . The subject has been brought
into prominence chieﬂy by the columns of the Spec-
tator, and propaganda, is conducted also by Major Van
der Byl, Wappenham House, Towcester, who has pre-
pared, and is extensively circulating, a leaﬂet: by the
University of London Animal Welfare Society, the

90

 

 

 




 

 

PRESENT-DAY PROBLEMS 91

R.S.P.C.A., the Scottish S.P.C.A., the Animal Defence
Society, and the National Council for Animals’ Wel-
fare. The Anti-Steel—toothed Trap Committee in Lon-
don is concerned mainly with the trapping of rabbits,
which are used for “ coney ” furs. Miss E. G. E. Crum,
of Girton, has arranged to bring the subject before the
National Federation of Women’s Institutes at the next
annual congress of that organisation.

It is interesting to note that in the State of South Caro—
lina the setting, sale, manufacture, and use of steel traps
were prohibited on March I I, I 927, except that an im—
ported trap may be set within zoo yards of a house.
A ﬁne of 100 dollars or 30 days’ imprisonment may be
imposed. In the State of Massachusetts the steel trap
was “ outlawed ” by a heavy vote on November 4,
1930, after a long campaign by the Anti-Steel-Trap
League and other humane societies.

The following list of humanely obtained real furs is
given by the Anti—Steel—Trap League of America: horse,
pony, zebra, etc.; cattle, with calf of many kinds; sheep,
including krimmer, vicuna, mouﬂon, etc.; goats and
kids, including caracul, guanaco; camels, with alpaca,
llama, etc.; deer, with moose, caribou, reindeer, elk, etc.
Silver and black foxes and fancy rabbits come almost
exclusively from fur farms. Furs from Eastern coun—
tries are under suspicion, however.

Opinion is divided as to the ethical value of fur farms.
Farmed animals can be killed humanely, and it is con—
tended that the task of inducing women to abandon
furs, abroad as well as in Great Britain, is a hopeless one.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

92 THE ANIIVIAL YEAR-BOOK

On the other hand, the close confinement of wild
species in pens or cages, which are likely to become
more restricted as the industry develops, is open to ob-
jection. On either view, much would be gained by
the institution of a mark, under the Trade Marks Acts,
for enabling farmed furs to be distinguished from
trapped furs, as it is unsafe to rely on the statements
made by interested salesmen. The University of London
Animal Welfare Society has obtained an authoritative
Opinion as to the feasibility of such a mark, and has
circulated the information to those concerned, but there
seems to be little prospect of a " farmed ” mark, or a
national mark, being instituted. Humane women would
do well, therefore, to dissociate themselves entirely from
a trade that necessitates cruelty on a scale of which Nero
and Torquemada never dreamed.

Fur fabrics of considerable beauty can now be ob—
tained from the following London ﬁrms among others,
according to the R.S.P.C.A.: John Barker 8C Co., Ltd.;
Derry 8C Toms; Dickins 8C Jones, Ltd.; Glave, Ltd.;
Harrods, Ltd.; Harvey Nichols 85 Co., Ltd.; John Lewis,
Ltd.; Selfridge 85 Co., Ltd. They should be selected
carefully, however, as they differ widely in quality.
The following is a list of manufacturers of fur fabrics:
Dyson, Hall 8: Co., Ltd., Huddersﬁeld; Field 85 Bottrill,
Ltd., Skelmanthorpe, nr. Huddersfield; T. F. Firth
55 Sons, Flush Mills, Heckmondwike; Foster (John)
and Sons, Ltd., Queensbury, Bradford; Fur Fabric
Co., Ltd., Manningham, Bradford; Lee (John) St
Sons (Grantham), Ltd., Grantham; Lister 86 Co.,
Ltd., Bradford; Manufacture ‘Frangaise de Tapis et

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

PRESENT-DAY PROBLEMS 93

Couvertures, S.A., Paris; Shelton Looms, 395-401
Fourth Avenue, New York; Vereingte Schafwollwaren-
fabriken A.G., Brun, Czecho-Slovakia. As these fabrics
are made of wool their use is favoured not only by
humane considerations but by a patriotic regard for
the needs of the depressed woollen industry.

C. W. HUME.

2. THE REQUIREMENTS OF A HUMANE SYSTEM OF
SLAUGHTER

HE guiding principles, as ﬁrst deﬁned by Cap-

tain Hume at the British Association meeting in

1927, are: economy, hygiene, and humaneness.
But these terms must not be narrowly interpreted.
Economy may be synonymous with wise expenditure.
Hygiene is not mere cleanliness and freedom from
disease, but includes whatever promotes the health of
the community and therefore of the animals destined
as food. The three principles, moreover, are closely re-
lated and, indeed, interwoven; e.g. humane treatment
of animals from the pasture to the slaughter-pen is
essential for the provision of the ﬁnest meat, and is,

ultimately, not' only hygienic but also truly eco-
nomical.

Slaug'bter-[muses—These should be centralised, i.e.
concentrated in large establishments, for only so can
ample facilities be provided for transport by road and
rail, for rigorous inspection of animals and of meat, for
training of officials, and for conversion of blood and
offal. They need not be in the cities. Resting-lairs should
be provided, where animals may recover from the jour-

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

94 THE ANIMAL YEAR-BOOK

ney before being slaughtered. Passages leading from pens
to slaughter—chambers should be narrow, to prevent
turning or jostling, and all corners should be rounded
off or bevelled. Too little attention has been given, even
by societies for the prevention of cruelty to animals,
to prevention of the preliminary cruelties—rough hand—
ling, and even abuse, in bringing the animals to the place
of slaughter and in positioning them there. If a ring be
used for the attachment of beasts to be shot, it should
not be ﬁxed in the ﬂoor (as was common with the pole-
axe), but in the wall, about 3—;— feet above the ﬂoor,
and on the right hand of the shooter as he faces the
animal. But the use of a stunning-pen, entered direct
from the passage (which may be ﬁtted with a gate
across it at each slaughter—pen) , is much to be preferred.
The use of pig-traps reduces both the labour and the
time of pig-killing; and the gangway should lead
direct from pen to trap, that the pigs may readily
“ follow the leader ” along it in single ﬁle. The trap
should be placed close to a wall or partition, the stunned
pig being at once ejected through a door or opening
into another room, where bleeding immediately takes
place. Thus the live animals see nothing of the carcases
or of the later processes.

It is desirable that slaughter-houses should prosper
ﬁnancially, in order that the employees, buildings,
apparatus, and animals may all beneﬁt. A means to that
end lies in the proﬁtable conversion of offal and blood
into valuable oils, poultry-food, manures, etc. Slaugh-
ter-houses in small towns, which cannot afford to erect
conversion apparatus for themselves, may co-opera-

 

 




 

 

PRESENT-DAY PROBLEMS 9S

tively, by motor-lorries ﬁtted With tanks, convey the
offal to a common centre where it can be treated.
Class—rooms or lecture-halls for instruction of slaughter—
men, inspectors, and others afford a means not only of
increasing proﬁt, but also of raising the status and stan- V
dards of the entire trade. Large slaughter-houses should
have ample dressing, washing, and feeding accommoda-
tion for the staff; separate compartments for reception
of rejected animals and for condemned meat, as also for
animals or meat suspected to be unhealthy.

The problem of the private slaughter-house, especially
in England (where 20,000 are computed to exist), is
one of great difﬁculty and urgency. Apart from pur-
chase or special legislation, improvement might be
effected by the provision of a public slaughter—house in
any given area, and by the introduction of a system
of ofﬁcial marking of all meat which had passed
rigorous inspection tests for both the method of
slaughter and the condition of the meat. A-
mark for such meat is of more importance,
hygienically, humanely, and economically, than one
which merely denotes the place of origin. And as
private slaughter-houses do not possess adequate facili-
ties, and could not afford to pay for such inspection and
marking, they would at once be placed at a disadvan-
tage, while the health of the community would corre—
spondingly beneﬁt.

It is undesirable that separate ﬁrms or local butchers
should have private booths in a large slaughter-house.
To work a booth on only one or two days in the week
is uneconomical; and ofﬁcial slaughtermen are, or should

 

 




__ 7,~,,_,__ ,__,,__mr,_..._m.__. _. ‘n. ..t-‘. 40—“ .w -__... .M..._‘.. ”wumwwnmum ,H M.__..__.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

96 THE ANIMAL YEAR—BOOK

be, more proﬁcient than butchers’ apprentices. Indeed,
the tendency is for “ butchers ” to discontinue the pur-
chase and slaughter of animals, and to become pur—
veyors and distributors of the ﬁnest meat obtained from
a central place as required. This will beneﬁt the slaugh—
ter-houses, the “ butchers,” and the public.

Apparatus.—Many important improvements and
labour-saving devices have been introduced in recent
years, as e.g. chutes, trolleys, overhead trackways,
slaughter-pens, pig-traps, and pistols: these last are of
two kinds, one ﬁring a bullet, the other ﬁring the so-
called captive bolt, which is only partly ejected and is
then automatically withdrawn after penetrating the
animal’s skull. The captive-bolt pistol has been brought
to remarkable perfection, but inevitably requires more
care in keeping than does the bullet-ﬁring pistol, and is
more liable to injury. Dislike of the bullet—ﬁring pistol
is largely due to prejudice. For many years it has been
used in large slaughter-houses without accident or
failure. The most suitable pistols and the proper car-
tridges and ﬁring positions for the skulls of different
classes of animals can be ascertained from the special
manuals issued by prevention of cruelty to animals’
societies and others. The secret of avoiding blood—splash
and of effective complete bleeding lies in sticking or
bleeding the animal immediately after it has been
stunned. A delay of even two minutes may be prejudi-
cial. As regards the working of the humane method in
Scotland since the Act came into force, the writer has
received reports from many places, including not only
the towns, but also Skye, Shetland, and the Orkneys;

 

 




 

 

PRESENT—DAY PROBLEMS 97

and all show that the pistol is working satisfactorily.
Although it is not yet compulsory in the case of pigs,
the pistol is used for them also in a large number of
places in Scotland.

Legislation—From all points of view it is desirable
that the best methods should be everywhere employed,
and this involves national legislation. Unfortunately,
Parliament fails to make provision for either instruction
or adequate inspection. The Slaughter of Animals (Scot-
land) Act of I 928 authorised local authorities to deter-
mine the best pattern of pistol, to license the slaughter-
men, and to appoint persons to visit slaughter-houses;
but the local authorities have, in general, not risen to
their responsibilities in these matters. The corresponding
bill for England 1 goes farther, for it places on local
authorities the “ duty ” of enforcing its various provi-
sions. In both, however, it is regrettable that the term
" slaughter-house ” is fundamental; for the method of
killing all animals should be humane, whether the meat
be for sale to the public or for private consumption on
an estate, farm, or croft. In Scotland local authorities,
except in large towns, have not facilities for testing the
fitness of slaughtermen, and licences have occasionally
been too readily granted. Also there has been a regret-
table reluctance to prosecute for breaches of the new
law, even when these breaches were ﬂagrant; and penal-
ties have, in many cases, been so lenient as to make the
offence seem trivial and to nullify the work of preven-
tion of cruelty to _ animals’ societies. It is surely

1_ On December 12, 1930, this bill passed its second reading
unanimously, but there is fear that its scope may be reduced in
Committee.

7

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

98 THE ANIMAL YEAR—BOOK

. surprising that neither in England nor in Scotland are
children expressly excluded by law from slaughter-
house premises. '

Electricity.——Electrocution may, or may not, be pain—
ful; but electric stunning has been tried on persons as
well as on animals, and has been found practicable,
innocuous, and painless. The method was discovered in
I 903 by Dr. Leduc, of Nantes, who was himself anaes-
thetised and regained consciousness without experi—
encing any ill-effects. Prof. Dr. Max Muller, of Munich,
has recently adapted the method to the requirements of
slaughter-houses with remarkable success. A weak cur—
rent, at a pressure of so to 80 volts, but interrupted
8,000 to 10,000 times per minute, is applied to the sides
of an animal’s head by means of a tongs-like instru-
ment, and the animal is thereby instantaneously ren-
dered unconscious. The unconsciousness lasts only for
approximately three minutes (though the application
can be repeated if necessary) ,7 but that time sufﬁces for
’ the heart—stab or neck—bleeding to be effected, and the
anaesthesia, initiated by the electric current, then be-
comes permanent owing to loss of blood. The method is
amazingly rapid, simple, clean, noiseless, and painless,
though fuller investigation may be required on par-
ticular details. It was said of Franklin that “ he (eripuit
caelo fulmen, etc.) snatched the thunderbolt from Jove
and the sceptre from tyrants ”: it may yet be possible
to add—“ and the sting from Death.”

J. A. S. BARRETT,
A Director of the Scottish S.P.C.A.

 




v u-..

 

 

PRESENT-DAY PROBLEMS 99

. [Editors’ N 0te.——The author of the preceding article
has himself been responsible for two important proposed
improvements in slaughter-house equipment. In the
Barrett—Smith pig-trap a sliding ﬂoor is operated by a
lever which, when drawn, wedges the pig in a stationary
position; a swinging slide, similarly operated, releases
the carcass clear of the trap for bleeding. Mr. Barrett’s
trolley system for sheep—slaughter, described in the Scot-
tish Butc/oers’ [ourmzl for August 10, 1929, enables one
expert gunman to shoot large numbers of sheep rapidly
for distribution by trolleys to bleeders and dressers. It
thus ensures shooting and immediate bleeding, effects
an economy of time, and provides for the utilisation of
offal. A system for humanely handling cattle in the
slaughter-house has been devised by Mr. Collingwood.
These methods are, however, not at present in use.

Further information with regard to humane slaughter
and the cruelty involved in the traditional methods of
slaughter may be obtained from the R.S.P.C.A., the
Scottish S.P.C.A., and kindred societies (see Chapter II) .
A valuable series of lectures on the subject (Benjamin
Ward Richardson lectures) is published by the Model
Abattoir Society.]

3. THE OIL TRAGEDY
PACIFIC, Indian Ocean, Atlantic, North Sea—the

diving sea-birds of the whole world are being
destroyed by the heavy fuel oil cast from ships.-
The penguins of South Africa, the guillemots of the
North Atlantic, the divers on the Paciﬁc coast of
America—all are born to risk and maybe to suffer the

 




Wu! 3 I" .

100 THE ANIMAL YEAR-BOOK l

supremely terrible death by oil. Death by starvation,
made more terrible by a sense of degradation, for a bird’s
plumage is its pride and almost its soul.

The civilised world has not yet grasped the fact of this
universal tragedy. Periodically in the holiday seasons the
papers of Europe and America publish letters from
holiday folk, eye—witnesses of what is happening; at
other times little is heard, because there are few ob—
servers; sometimes a stretch of beach is clear for two
years, but always somewhere on every coast the destruc-
tion is going on—universal, chronic, capricious—like a
terrible wandering cancer eating into the life of the
coasts.

The thing is remediable, and the remedy is the installa1
tion of oil—separators on every oil-using ship. Already
this has been done on a certain number of ships—e. g. the
Bremen, the Homeric, and some others; the saved oil is
valuable, and pays for the installation of the separator.
If any man or woman wants to help in urging this
course on the world, let him orher support the societies
that are trying to ﬁght the evil of the oil—societies
such as the R.S.P.C.A., R.S.P.B., and the University of
London Animal Welfare Society.

H. DE VERE STACPOOLE,
Hon. Secretary, The Penguin Club.

 

for the Protection of Birds ﬁrst sounded an alarm
in regard to the new and appalling danger to bird
life which has come with the advent of oil—burning
vessels; and since that time it has persisted, year in year

IT is now more than ten years since the Royal Society

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

PRESENT-DAY PROBLEMS 101

out, in its efforts to rouse public opinion and public
protest, and to seek and promote remedies for the evil.
Oil-pollution of the sea is acknowledged to be world'— .
wide. Great Britain and other maritime countries
realise the urgency of the question, and have protected
their own shores as far as they are able by prohibiting
the discharge of oil within their own waters. But
though they may individually endeavour to keep the sea
clean at their own doors, this does not affect the high
seas; and refuse oil poured out upon the ocean is brought
by wind and tide to all coasts. In 1926 the govern—
ment of the United States of America summoned an
International Conference at Washington to discuss the
matter. A draft convention was signed, the main
feature of which was a recommendation that oil—dis-
charge should not be permitted within ﬁfty miles of
land. This convention has not been ratiﬁed, though it
has secured some considerable amount of voluntary
observance. And even had such an agreement met
with universal approval, detection of offences would be
almost impossible.

Individual effort in dealing with the problem has, how—
ever, progressed considerably, and has taken cognisance
of the true remedy: the oil-separator, which separates
the oil from other constituents, rendering it again fit for
use, and returns an effluent that is practically pure water
into the sea. British and United States shipowners have
taken the lead in installing these oil-separators, and a
large number of ships are so equipped. But there remain
very many vessels and many ports without separating
plant, and these continue to pollute the seas and destroy

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

102. THE ANIMAL YEAR-BOOK

bird life. No shipping company, however, can with-
stand the weight of public opinion, and public opinion
is the strongest weapon that can be wielded for saving
the birds. To arouse opinion and quicken action the
Royal Society for the Protection of Birds has, among
other efforts (including appeals in all maritime coun-
tries) , provided a small adhesive stamp depicting a dying
sea—bird killed by oil, and bearing the words, “ Urge
Shipowners to install oil—separators and so save the sea-
birds.” This stamp has been issued in seven languages
and circulated all over the world. Many Shipowners
have shown themselves willing to adopt separators, and
are reporting the saving in oil thus effected. Their
example should be followed by all the Shipowners of
both hemispheres. The only question is: Can sufﬁcient
effort be stimulated to incite to the universal adoption
of separators in every ship that sails the seas? The
answer lies with the public of each maritime country,
and towards this end the co-operation of all bird-lovers
is needed if the sea-birds are to be saved.

PHYLLIS BARCLAY SMITH,
Assistant Secretary, 15/06 Royal
Society for the Protection of Birds.

4. TRAPPING RABBITS
HE following reforms are urgently needed in
. connection with the trapping of rabbits:
(51) Reduction of the numbers of rabbits by
humane methods only.

(6) Prohibition by law of the use, sale, manufacture,

”—8—.

 




 

w-n —. ,1 ‘

PRESENT-DAY PROBLEMS 103

and importation of traps and snares calculated to cause
suffering, and particularly of the gin.

(6) Control of professional trappers by public
authorities; enactment and enforcement of exemplary
penalties against amateur trappers employing inhumane
methods; col-operation by the Ministry of Agriculture
in promoting the adoption of humane methods; the
teaching of humane methods in agricultural colleges.

((1) Prohibition of the sale of mutilated carcases.

Present Met/gods of Taking Rabbits

Some tens of millions of rabbits are taken in Great
Britain every year, and the means most frequently em—
ployed are the steel-toothed trap or gin and the wire
snare. The former comprises a pair of steel jaws, con-

trolled by a powerful spring, which crush the leg of the

rabbit and hold the victim until either it is taken out
by the trapper, is killed by a stoat, cat or dog, or dies
of thirst, pain, and exhaustion. It is not uncommon for
dogs or cats to be found in such traps, and in some parts
of the country the screams of trapped rabbits are heard
throughout the night. The snare is a running noose
made of wire. Its peculiar cruelty lies 1n the fact that
when a rabbit has been strangled to the point of
unconsciousness, the noose relaxes and consciousness
returns, the process of struggling and strangling being
repeated again and again. Moreover, whenever the snare
catches a rabbit round the loins and the string breaks,
the animal wanders away with a tight band compressing
its abdomen, and only dies after weeks of agony.

The steel-toothed trap and the common snare must
be bracketed together as equally barbarous methods of

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

104 THE ANIMAL YEAR-BOOK

destroying “ vermin ”; in this general term I include
Wild rabbits, stoats, weasels, rats, jays, and magpies.
Having had the opportunity of Witnessing the mutila-
tion and recognising the torture inﬂicted by both these
methods, I assert that they are on a par, as regards
cruelty, with barbarities long since prohibited by law.
I refer to such forms of cruelty as the mediaeval torture
of human beings, the slow bleeding of calves, bull-
baiting, etc. I have conversed with old trappers and
poachers of many years’ standing on the subject, and
am convinced that more humane methods are adequate
to cope With the “ vermin ” menace in the case of most
animals and birds included in this category and, Without
any question of doubt, in the case of Wild rabbits. This
being so, I personally am satisﬁed that legislation pro-
hibiting the use of the steel trap is overdue.

Humane Methods of Taking Wild Rabbits

Netting, by means of the old-fashioned poacher’s net
or modiﬁcations of it, is quite satisfactory, and by this
means large numbers of wild rabbits can be caught un-
harmed and killed mercifully. On the borders of woods
this method is particularly useful, and in the hands of
those with but little experience is quite capable of keep—
ing down the bulk of depredating rabbits. By means of
Collington’s improvements the long net can be adapted
for use in daylight. The apparatus can be obtained from
Mr. H. Collington, East Street, Wymeswold, Lough-
borough.

Many kinds of humane traps and snares have been put
on the market, largely as the result of a large prize

offered by the R.S.P.C,A. Some of these are excellent,

 

 

 




 

 

PRESENT-DAY PROBLEMS 105

Of the many kinds I have personally tested two stand
out pre-eminently—the Lewis snare, and the Rabbit—
jerk. Both these snares do what is expected of them,
viz. kill the rabbits outright, and take on an average as
many rabbits as the ordinary cruel snare. The Lewis
snare is my favourite, in that it is less conspicuous to
human and rodent alike, and can be more quickly set.
The Rabbit—jerk has advantages where there are
no trespassers, as a caught rabbit is so conspicuous that
it can be seen at a long distance, which makes the
visitation of unsprung traps unnecessary. Several other
traps now under trial promise success. The R.S.P.C.A.
knotted snare is more humane than the ordinary one.
Mortimer Batten’s tunnel trap is strongly recommended

by the S.S.P.C.A.

The Legal Position

According to law: (a) traps should be visited once
between sunrise and sunset, but this enactment is not
enforced. Professional trappers obey it fairly well, but
poachers, farmers, and other casual trappers do not.
Moreover, 7 5 ‘per cent. of the victims are caught during
the ﬁrst three hours of darkness. It is of the utmost
importance, therefore, that traps should be visited
towards the end of this period. (6) Section 6 of the
Ground Game Act 1880 stipulates that “ no person
shall, for the purpose of killing ground game, employ
spring traps except in rabbit-holes.” This rule increases
the difﬁculty of humane trapping, and is not observed
in practice by trappers using other methods. It needs
reconsideration.

The Rabbits Bill I 9 30, which is at present before the

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

106. THE ANIMAL YEAR-BOOK

House of Commons, would give power to local authori-
ties to take steps for the keeping down of rabbits, and
would at the same time preclude trappers from using
spring traps.
Co—operetion 0f the Ministry of Agriculture

The Ministry of Agriculture could exert much in-
ﬂuence by calling the attention of farmers to the
importance of using humane methods of trapping, and
could promote a knowledge of those methods through
the agricultural colleges. It could also prepare for a
system whereby the task of trapping should be under-
taken by public rather than private enterprise.

H 010 Housewives C an H el 12

By insisting on being supplied with humanely caught
rabbits, housewives can exert a considerable inﬂuence.
Trapped rabbits usually show marks of the trap on the
forelegs, while in the case of snared rabbits the heads
are swollen or the eyes bulging. All such rabbits, and
rabbits which have been cut up, should be refused.

Conclusion

While this subject is not free from diﬂ‘iculties, it seems
clear that if the use, sale, manufacture, and importation
of the gin and the common snare were made illegal,
humane but effective means would be available for keep—
ing down the numbers of rabbits. Even if those means
were somewhat less convenient or more expensive than
the barbarous methods at present in use, the com-
munity ought to be prepared to pay that price for con-
formity to the canons of civilisation and decency.

A. H. B. KIRKMAN.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

CHAPTER VI
SOME LITERATURE DEALING WITH ANIMALS

T occurred to us that there is no review, so far as we .

know, devoted entirely to notices of books dealing

with animal subjects, and that a chapter on literature
dealing with animals would be useful to our readers. Our
difﬁculty in the matter of choice is obvious. To give
notices of books published during the last twelve
months, without reference to antecedents, seemed
of little use, especially to the younger generation
of animal workers; nor would it suit our aim to
conﬁne ourselves to any one branch of animal study.
\Ve have therefore chosen for our ﬁrst essay about
ﬁfty books published during this generation, and not
yet out of date, taken from all the various branches
of animal literature, and written in such a way as to
be useful to any ordinary worker in the animal move-
ment who is not a specialist in one particular depart—
ment of study. Thus we have included, besides books on
propaganda, works on natural history and animal psy-
chology, books on animal management, etc., the best
volumes of animal ﬁction, and even a few children’s
books. We are conscious that the number of works dealt
with is very inadequate; but we hope to make amends
in future issues of the Year—book.

Besides the editors, the following have kindly con—

tributed reviews: Prof. Doris L. Mackinnon, of King’s
107

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

108 THE ANIMAL YEAR-BOOK

College; Dr. P. Haas, of University College; F. W. Jane,
B.Sc., of University College; Mr. W. G. Boyd, B.A.,
of King’s College; Miss E. Gale, of King’s College;
Mr. J. R. Harman, B.Sc.; Miss D. Plummer, of Royal
Holloway College; Mr. S. George West, B.A., of King’s
College; to all of whom the University of London
Animal Welfare Society is indebted. Our gratitude to
the many publishers who have sent us review copies
has already been expressed in the preface.

C. M. KNIGHT.

Fair Treatment for Animals. By Ernest Bell. 298 pp.
(G. Bell 85 Sons, 1922. 25. 6d.)

Though this work, by one of the foremost humani-
tarians in this country, is well known to most animal
workers, we are glad to bring it to the notice of our
younger readers. It consists of articles that appeared
during twenty-ﬁve years in T/oe Animals’ Friend,
and its object is to help “ speakers, writers, and other hu-
mane workers.” The thoroughness of Mr. Bell’s aims
and the courage with which he expresses them make a
very special appeal to the present reviewer; but in spite
of, or rather because of, his sympathy with and affection
for the sub-human animals, he is tolerant with men, and
realises that not all are ready to follow him always all
the way. His papers cover a wide range of subjects: he
discusses the rights of animals, and demonstrates the
stupidity of the monstrous idea that animals “ were
made for man ”; he touches on points in the psychology
and inner life of animals; and he often gives valuable
hints on methods of the humane education of children.

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

NOTICES OF BOOKS 109

Mr. Bell’s papers also deal with trapping and furs, the
chaining of dogs, caged birds, pit ponies, and the right
harness for horses. He also discusses with some fervour
topics which are still considered controversial by many
humanitarians, such as zoos and performing animals,
blood sports, rabbit-coursing, hare-hunting, big—game
hunting, horse-racing, vivisection, and food reform and
a humane diet. All workers in the cause of animals,
whatever may be their views on controversial matters,
will find something useful or suggestive in Mr. Bell’s

thoughtful articles.
C. M. KNIGHT.

Animals’ Rig/ats Considered in Relation to Social Pro-
gress. By Henry S. Salt. 121 pp. (G. Bell 86 Sons,
1922. 23. 661.)

Like Mr. Ernest Bell’s work, Fair Treatment for Ani-

mals, this little book is useful as a general introduction
. and as a help to speakers on the humane treatment of
animals in its general aspect in this country. Mr. Salt
gives a brief history of the development of a sense of
duty to animals in England and useful summaries of
laws passed up to the date of the publication of his
book (revised edition 1922). Even those who do not go
all the way with him in some of his contentions must
all agree that he is right to stress the need for universal
justice (not mercy) for all living things, and the need
to respect the individuality of all animals, i.e. to adjust
our moral relation to the “ lower ” animals. There is
a good chapter on the barbarous and stupid business of
the fur trade, with all the sacriﬁce of beauty, tender-
ness, and intelligence in animals to human vanity. Mr.

A,_.L,.._...‘_..‘_.__

 

 




 

110 THE ANIMAL YEAR-BOOK.

Salt emphasises the need for humane education, not only
in schools, but everywhere, and for its ﬁtting sequel fur-
ther legislation; for legislation is not merely a means
of preventing cruelty, but serves to record the progress
of the moral sense of the community. Having started on
the path of development, it cannot go back easily. There
is a good bibliography of general literature on the animal
movement.

C. M. KNIGHT.

The N ew Ethics. By J. Howard Moore. 216 pp. (G.
Bell 85 Sons, I907. 33. 6d.)

The object of this book, written by an American
zoologist, is to demonstrate the necessity for a change
in the ethical ideas of man, which has been brought
about by the biological revelations of Darwin and his
successors. The old—fashioned anthropocentrism, still .
cherished by too many in their unfounded conceit or
witless conservatism, must ﬁnally give way to a grand
humanitarianism. Mr. Howard Moore rightly emphasises
the importance of biology in our claim for justice to the
sub—human animals: “ Biology teaches, if it teaches any-
thing, that there is a solidarity of the sentient world.
Man is simply the highest product of a long process of
evolution, and his qualities of mind and heart extend
all along down among the antecedent forms, through
which he has come.” The barbarities which men practise
or condone in connection with animals is due to ignor—
ance of biological facts, a refusal or inability to think
for themselves, or lack of courage to break away from
inherited ideas. Mr. Howard Moore suggests to us the
debt Which civilisation owes to the greater endurance

 

 

 

 

 




 

NOTICES OF BOOKS III

and strength of some of the sub—human animals, which
merits at least justice and some reciprocity. He also
gives us eloquent chapters on trapping and food
reform. Mr. Moore does not limit his sympathy to the
animal world, but includes overworked and ill-used
natives, and Americans and Europeans who are crushed
by economic conditions. History shows us what progress
mankind has made even since the Middle Ages, and is a
good presage for a future more-enlightened age. Some
readers may not approve of Mr. Moore’s warm en-
thusiasm, fervent language, and eloquent indictment
of the shortcomings of men, and may wish that he had
produced a cold scientiﬁc work on the subject; but
those who have the humane cause at heart will not
carp at methods, and will even overlook lapses from
good taste and rejoice in all. books which stimulate
thought and arouse men from apathy, the greatest
curse in the world and the worst stumbling-block in

the way of all reform.
C. M. KNIGHT.

A Century of War/e for Animals: A History of 25/06
R.S.P.C.A., 1824—1924. By E. G. Fairholme and
Wellesley Pain. With an ode by Thomas Hardy
and Foreword by H.R.H. the Prince of Wales.
Crown 8vo-., pp. xvi -l- 298. (John Murray, I 924.
73. 6d.)

Those who love a story of a long and patient ﬁght
against abuses, where every inch of the ground has been
bitterly contested, will ﬁnd in this book an inspiring
and intensely instructive record. Animals were entirely
without legal protection till 1822, when Richard

 

 

 




 

 

112 THE ANIMAL YEAR-BOOK

Martin carried through, in spite of the opposition of
the Attorney-General, the Act which was ridiculed in
the song “ If I had a Donkey.” Two years later the
R.S.P.C.A. was formed, and in'another eighteen months
it was so much in debt that it very nearly was wound
up. In 1826 its Secretary, the Rev. Arthur Broome, an
Anglican clergyman who had sacriﬁced his living for
the cause, was imprisoned for the debts of the society
until he was rescued by an Irishman and a Jew.
From those days, when excessive cruelty was common
in public places and humane sentiments were ridiculed,
to the present, when wanton cruelty to domestic
animals is, with certain important exceptions, illegal,
and is condemned by public opinion, the Society has
persevered through a long series of diﬂicult crises; and
anyone who wishes to understand the extent of the
ground that it has won, or to obtain a bird’s-eye
View of the general problem of cruelty, cannot do
better than study its history. The R.S.P.C.A. has many
critics as well as many helpers, but in common honesty
no one should claim the. right to criticise till he has
digested the facts recorded in this book, while sym—
pathisers will ﬁnd in it much inspiration for the next
phase in the ﬁght for fair play—namely, the systematic
prevention of cruelty to wild animals.

C. W. HUME.

Son/e Australia. By Various Writers. Edited by Sir James
Barrett. 231 pp. (Macmillan 81 Co., I925. 83. 661.)

This interesting little book describes the eﬁort which
is being made in Australia to conserve the ﬂora and

 

 




 

m“.-‘\_.“ “ “

 

 

NOTICES OF BOOKS 113

fauna native to that continent. That many of them had
almost reached the point of extinction was realised by
the more enlightened, even before the close of the last
century. In addition to the destruction of animal and
bird life by the burning of forests, whether by accident
or for the purpose of deforestation and settlement, this
devastation has been caused by the extensive fur trade
(we read that over 7, 519,000 skins were exported
from Australia from 1919-21) , the increasing demand
for leather, the vandalism of so-called “ scientiﬁc ”
collectors, both professional and amateur, and the
introduction of foreign animals and birds, which are
generally stronger than the more primitive Australian
species. This book describes what is being done by each
of the States in arranging zoological islands and sanctu-
aries, under public control and recognition, for the
native animals and birds, in asserting State ownership
of all wild animals and birds, in forbidding by law their
destruction without a permit, in limiting their export,
and in educating public opinion to a sense of trusteeship
in connection with animals and plants. Those of our
readers who are interested in the history of the fauna
of the world will ﬁnd in this book fascinating accounts
of the marsupials, creatures more primitive than any of
our animals, and of the native birds of Australia,
generally accompanied by beautiful little illustrations
from photographs. Of more immediate interest to
our Society is the chapter on the animal movement
(“ Cruelty to Animals,” by A. T. Latham, of the
Victoria Society for the Protection of Animals).

C. M. KNIGHT.

 

 




 

 

114 THE ANIMAL YEAR-BOOK

Beast and Man in India. By J. Lockwood Kipling.
Caravan Library. With illustrations, 359 pp.
(Macmillan, I926. 35. 661.)

In the introduction the author protests against a popu—
lar but mistaken belief, based upon a literature no
longer true to life, that kindness to animals is inborn
among Indians; and that, accordingly, such cruelty as
exists must have been learned, like drunkenness, from
degenerate Europeans. Rather, he maintains, the general
Brahminical precepts of mercy are now but the ritual
Observances of the few; their treatment of animals is
not prompted by a general feeling of pity, but in the
main consists merely of a vague reluctance to take life
(except for sacriﬁce), and a ceremonial reverence for
the cow. Consequently, the Indians have no scruples
about overworking animals in unﬁt conditions, or
leaving them to a lingering death from starvation or
from birds of prey, when no longer fit for work.

On the other hand, a much more humane spirit pre-
vails in India with regard to free animals than in the
West. Village boys are not there seen playing all the cruel
pranks on frogs, cats, ordogs so common in England.
Another surprising point is the patience with which
farmers suffer creatures that raid the crops; they have
various methods of frightening them away, but, with
far greater provocation than the English farmer, they
never have organised raids against them.

The sub-title of the book, “ A Popular Sketch of
Indian Animals in their Relations with the People,”
gives a better idea of its scope than the introduction.
The subject is treated at length and in detail, and idioms

 

 

 




 

 

 

NOTICES OF BOOKS 115

of the language, stories from literature, anecdotes, and
actual experiences are all used with point in illustration.
Mr. Kipling knows India and the Indians well, and
throughout he evidently has the welfare of animals at
heart. He is severe at times in his indictment, which
often, mutatis mutandis, would hold true outside
India, but his book is nevertheless good reading, and,
besides shedding light on Indian problems, it should

do much to educate public opinion on animal rights in
general.

W. G. BOYD.

Animal Psyc/aology for Biologists. By J. A. Bierens de

Haan. 77 pp. (University of London Press, I929.
43. 6d.)

Dr. Bierens de Haan is the Lecturer in Experimental
Zoology in the University Of Amsterdam. The contents
of this little book were lectures delivered by the author
before the University of London at King’s College, in
May I 928. Animal psychology is becoming more and
more a distinct science; for the study of the mental life
of animals is being taken up for itself and not as sub—
sidiary to the study of the human mind; it is shaking
itself free from anthropology. The founders of this
modern science are Prof. Lloyd Morgan, “ the father of
animal psychology,” and Prof. Thorndike, of America,
who is especially distinguished for his work in connec-
tion with the experimental psychology of animals.

De Haan deﬁnes the object of animal psychology as,
not the consideration as to whether the animal has a
soul, which belongs to the realm of religion or meta—

 




n6 THE ANIMAL YEAR-BOOK

physics, but an investigation into subjective phenomena
in animals. It must steer a middle course between the
childish anthropomorphism of the anecdotal school
of half a century ago, when animal stories were
accepted indiscriminately and human motives un-
critically attributed to animals, and the modern schools
of tropism and behaviourism, which explain all action
in animals as due to objective reﬂection and deny a
subjective life to them. The object of animal psychology
is to test, by careful observation and critical experi-
ment, the quality of the animal’s mental activity at a
certain moment; the difﬁculty in ascertaining this,
especially in the lower grades of animals, must not be
interpreted as negative evidence. The structure of an
animal and its nervous system can never decide the
presence or absence of mental life. The nervous system,
whether a large complex brain or a simple chain of
ganglia, is merely the instrument which the mind uses
to control the body. There can be no dividing-line in
the animal world; the “ sudden appearance of Psyche
would be a miracle, and therefore not acceptable to
science.” Experiments show that even in protozoa
(amoebae) there is “ trial and error,” and the benefit
from experience, perseverance, and spontaneous action.
A mental life certainly cannot be denied for the higher
animals. Therefore it must exist all through the various
grades of animal life.

 

 

After this general introduction de Haan applies to
animals the test of subjective experience in its three
aspects of the cognitive, affective, and conative, or
knowing, feeling, and striving. As in man, so in animals,

 

 

 

 




 

 

NOTICES OF BOOKS, 117

perceptive experiences form complexes, but experiments
seem to indicate that an animal can generally not go
so far as man in dividing up the original compleXes.
Animals pro-ﬁt by experience and retain impressions,
but memory appears often dependent on attendant cir-
cumstances and sense—experiences. De Haan maintains
that an animal does not remember the past indepen-
dently, an opinion which certainly seems open to
question. Experiments show that animals have to some
extent free ideas, and are able to- learn by imitation and
means other than kinaesthetic perception, but that
generally animals cannot form abstract ideas and
combine them and thin/e as men do. In dealing with
the affective side (i.e. the emotions, such as pleasure,
anger, fear, etc.) de Haan demonstrates that it is found
even in the lower animals, though in a much less in-
tense degree than in the higher mammals.

The section dealing with the conative side of subjective
experience in animals is interesting. The force of in-
ternal stimuli (hunger, sex, etc.) are well known;
experiments are now occupied in testing the force of
external stimuli (light, gravitation, temperature, etc.) .
, This includes a discussion on the ever—fascinating subject
of instincts or instinctive actions, and the part which
experience may play in moulding them. The higher
animals seem not to depend on mere experience, but are
capable of a higher mental process, based on insight into
the relation of surrounding things, i.e. they are capable
of a simple form of our “ conceptual thought.”

This little book can be thoroughly recommended as an
introduction to the study of animal psychology. It has

 




 

 

 

 

 

118 THE ANIMAL YEAR—BOOK

an excellent bibliography. Dr. de Haan writes very
clearly, and his work is useful to those who are not
specialists in psychology; when he see-ms to err, it is
from excessive care and conservative judgment, which
is perhaps a good fault at the present early stage of the

science of animal psychology.
C. M. KNIGHT.

T/oe Minds of Animals. By ProfessOr J. Arthur Thomson
(Geo. Newnes, in " John 0’ London’s Little Books ”
series, 1927. 2s.)

As Prof. Thomson tells us in the preface, this little
book is intended to help the many thousands who are
interested in, [the fascinating subject of animal be-
haviour, but have not had the advantage of a bio-
logical training, to make better and more useful
observations. It is an excellent book, and like all Prof.
Thomson’s works, beautifully written; it should be
possessed and studied by all animal lovers. This is the
kind of work which does more for the animal cause
and the reforms for which we are working, than a
score of tracts of the sentimental or didactic type.

Prof. Thomson deﬁnes " mind ” in animals as " what
corresponds in them to feeling, imagination, and judg-
ment in ourselves. Mind is one aspect of that unique
activity which we call life. It is the inner life, the sub—
jective side of objective behaviour.” He then traces
animal behaviour as seen from direct observation of
nature, or from observation in the laboratory, from the
amoeba: and sea anemones through insects, ﬁsh, frogs,
birds, etc., to the mammals. The lowest animals can




V —. ~‘- ' _
MW”

NOTICES OF BOOKS 119

" learn ” without intelligence (i.e. where there is no
great central nerve ganglion) and proﬁt by experience;
they can turn their reﬂexes in a new way and “ en-
register ” the lesson. In connection with insects, we have
a very clear, simple discussion of the question, " What
is instinct?” The instinctive behaviour of the “ little:
brain ” type of animal (e.g. ants, bees), which is not
ready to " learn ” from a source outside itself, is dis-
tinguished from that of the “ big—brain ” type, seen in
chicks and all the mammals, which are poor in instincts

but highly educable.

Prof. Thomson is never tired of pointing out that
“ animals are seldom cleverer than they need to be.”
“ The better equipped an animal is with inborn reaction
capacities that work well in frequent exigencies, the
less likely is it to display novel intelligence.” However,
even in the lower- grade animals (e. g. in some fish) there
is evidence of “ appreciating the situation ” or some hint
of “ perceptual inference ”; but Prof. Thomson warns
us not to confuse this with reason or " conceptual in—
ference ” and the playing with general and abstract ideas
which is not found even among the higher apes, but
seems to be conﬁned to man. Mind is much more than
mere facile intelligence (and, we might add, much
more than cold logic). We cannot understand animals
unless we study their inner life and recognise them as
creatures of feeling and emotions.

Prof. Thomson’s chapter on "' Mind in Mammals ” is
useful to the amateur, who usually begins investigations
with his own pets. Other chapters of outstanding in-
terest are “ Animal Memory ” and “ Have Animals

 




 

 

 

 

120 THE ANIMAL YEAR-BOOK

Language? ” Few writers are able to combine, as Prof.
Thomson does, the sanity and caution of the scientist
with freshness and a sense of wonder and an apprecia—
tion of beauty in animal life. Notice his introductory
sentences to his chapter on " The Mind of Spiders ”;
“ He must be like a new—born kitten who thinks of
spiders as humdrum or commonplace. This is a rich
and romantic life. We must think of them as endowed
with an almost incredibly delicate sense of touch, living
in a world of tremors and vibrations, as artists in silk, as
abounding in adventure, such as gossamer ﬂight, etc.”;
or when he declares that a bird could be more intelli-
gent if it liked to try, but " Why should a bird trouble
its head with perceptual inference? To enjoy is better
than to experiment, and singing a ﬁner art than playing
with syllogisms. But every now and then we hear a
different note, a throb of a restless brain, a note of
inquisitiveness and adventure.”

C. M. KNIGHT.

The Soul of an Animal. By T. S. Hawkins. 222 pp.
(George Allen 86 Unwin. 63.)

This book, written by an enthusiastic lover of animals
and especially birds, makes a special appeal to the
present reviewer, though it is probable that it will not
interest the more conservative-minded of animal
workers. Mr. Hawkins has studied the inner life of birds
from the behaviour of his own tame pets, most of them
apparently of the crow family, and from wild birds.
The work is in the main a protest against the common
attitude of human beings to other animals. Cruelty,

 

 




 

 

NOTICES OF BOOKS 'IZI

that is not just thoughtlessness, is due to this ignorant
anthropocentric attitude to other living creatures. The
author protests vehemently against the shooting of birds
for sport; the slaughter of young rooks in the spring;
and the ignorance which makes farmers and gardeners
destroy rooks, plovers, starlings, etc., 75 per cent. of
whose food, we are told, consists of grubs and insects,
and who are really the farmers’ best friends. He mentions
too, the cruelty of caging wild birds and of appropri-
ating the wild berries, the winter food of the birds,
for the frivolous decoration of our houses; the amazing
way in which many people lightly deprive an animal
of its life, when it is suffering from some quite curable
illness; the absurd idea that animals feel pain less acutely
than we do.

Descartes’ theory that animals are automata, though
it has been completely exploded by the careful observa-
tions of naturalists and by modern psychological re-
search, is still potent in harm. The difference between
the ego of man and that of the other animals is merely
one of degree: animals have as much chance of survival
after death as human beings. Another point which Mr.
Hawkins emphasises is the harm which man has done to
himself by his ruthless slaughter of birds and animals.
Insects are likely to prove more formidable than any
enemy we have ever had to face.

There is a chapter on “ Instinct and Reason ”; but it
is a little vague and based on general observation rather
than scientiﬁc examination. There is also an interesting
account of the “ Language of Birds and Animals ”; the
results, though less exact, are very similar to those of

 




 

 

 

122 THE ANIMAL YEAR-BOOK

Prof. \J. Arthur Thomson in Minds of Animals, and
not negative like those of some psychologists; for in—
stance, “ Animal Language in its Relation to that of
Man,” by J. A. Bierans de Haan (Biological Reviews and
Biological Proceedings of the Cambridge Philosophical
Society, vol. iv, July 1929). It is conceivable that to
some minds Mr. Hawkins’s book may appear vague and
based on over-enthusiasm for his theme; but we would
suggest that it be regarded as a popular introduction to
the psychology of animals, which, as a deﬁnite scientiﬁc
study, is after all very recent, and which is more im—
portant for the cause of animal welfare than any other
line of research.

C. M. KNIGHT.

A Hind in Richmond Park. By W. H. Hudson. (J. M.
Dent 86 Sons, 1922. 63.)

Hudson needs no introduction to lovers of nature nor
to the more discriminating lovers of English literature.
He calls himself a ﬁeld naturalist, but he is at the same
time and always an artist and a poet. A Hind in Rich-
inond Park was Hudson’s last work (published posthu—
mously), and is the perfect ﬂower of his achievement.
The charm of his discursive method, his almost uncanny
intuition in understanding wild creatures, his inde-
pendence of judgment and distrust of blindly accepted
theories, especially those of the cloistered scientist, are
combined with a vast knowledge and observation of
‘ nature, animals, and man, carefully noted and tested
through a long life. In its patient accuracy and its free-
dom from sentiment Hudson’s method is scientiﬁc, but

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

NOTICES OF BOOKS 153

dealing with the living, changing subject of nature, open
always to “ exceptions,” he does not accept the limited
indoor methods of ordinary science; nor can we
substitute a library for direct independent observation
in a problem of nature: " One must shake off the op—
pression, the curse of books, the delusion that they con—
tain all knowledge, so that to observe and reﬂect fOr
ourselves is no longer necessary.”

Through his observation of a hind in Richmond
Park, Hudson was inspired to write this book, dealing
chieﬂy with sensory perception in animals. The early
part deals with the sense of smell and its importance for
all animals; friendships and antipathies are often due
to scent. He then passes on to consider “ the sense of
direction ” found in all animals, the insects (for in-
stance, ants), all birds, and man in natural conditions,
and sometimes found latent even in civilised man.
Closely associated with but not the same thing as “ the
sense of direction ” is the instinct of migration, which is
considered at great length and from a new aspect. Hud-
son had long observed ’the behaviour of birds just
before migration—their restless cries of alarm, suspicion,
fear, reluctance to' cross the sea, etc.; the “ passion of
migration ” always accompanies the instinct or act of
migration. Migration is also found in ﬁshes, some mam-
mals, and in insects. Hudson suggests that it is due to
terrestrial magnetism, which affects a nerve or nerves
sensitive to it in the brains of some animals.

He then passes on to consider the sense of sound and
its place in “ the scheme of life, from insect to man,”
which is dealt with in his usual delightful manner, full

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

12.4 THE ANIIVIAL YEAR-BOOK

of incident and anecdote, with many a sally into the
bypaths of kindred studies; for instance, the nature and
function of music and of poetry and the relation be—
tween these two arts. He claims that the music which
birds and animals produce, whether with their voices or
otherwise, gives them pleasure for its own sake, and is
not primarily a mere expression of sexual impulse; it
is artistic, not utilitarian. This again leads up to a dis-
cussion of the old theme “ What is art? ” Finally,
Hudson again reminds the reader of the danger of
specialising: " to specialise is to lose your soul.”

C. M. KNIGHT.

Almost H nman, a Study of T/oin/eing Animals. By
Carita Borderieux; translated by Fred Rothwell.
78 pp. (G. Bell 8?. Sons, I928. 23. 661.)

This book describes the experiments made in teaching
horses and dogs, like human children, to count and
“ tap ” out an arranged alphabet. The animal taps out
units with one fore—paw and tens with the other; each
letter of the alphabet is assigned a certain number of
taps, and so the words are spelt out. It was begun by
Van Osten in 1890 with his horses at Elberfeld. Later,
quite independently, similar experiments were made
with dogs in various parts of Germany and Switzerland.
The results are very remarkable; for these animals can
make quite complicated mathematical calculations, and
describe objects shown them and carry on a limited
conversation. Nobody has ever found any “ trickery ”
in any of the cases described by Mme. Borderieux. Un-
fortunately, the animals do not always succeed when

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

NOTICES OF BOOKS 125

being examined by a stranger, because they become
nervous. Nevertheless, there are enough " passes ” to
justify the claims of the experimenters. The value of
these experiments is, of course, purely scientiﬁc. Nobody
desires his horses or dogs to speak the human language;
but anything which helps us to appreciate the fact that
there is no very wide gulf between animal and human
intelligence is a sure contribution to the animal cause.

C. M. KNIGHT.

T/oe System 0 f Animate N dture. By J. Arthur Thomson.
687 pp. (Williams 86 Norgate, I 920. 305.)

The propagandist who not only appeals to and arouses
the emotions of his audience, but also endeavours to
use the weapons of reason, will ﬁnd this book of value.
It consists of twenty lectures delivered at the University
of St. Andrews, and gives a panoramic view, through
scientiﬁc spectacles, of the animate world and the many
theories associated therewith. Commencing with a dis-
cussion of the difference between animate and inanimate
bodies, the author endeavours to deﬁne “ criteria of
livingness,” and lays particular emphasis upon the in-
ability of the mechanistic theory to explain animal be-
haviour. He considers the relation of reflex actions, trop-
isms, instinct, and intelligent behaviour, but is careful to
avoid the reading of human reasonings into animal
actions. An extremely interesting lecture on beauty and
its signiﬁcance to animals is followed by a welcome
denial of the ruthless cruelty of animate nature. It is
shown that the self-interest of an individual is accom-
panied by a race-preservation instinct, and that this

 




 

 

 

 

126 THE ANIMAL YEAR-BOOK

latter is probably more important than the former. The
struggle for existence is interpreted as the reaction of an
organism to its environment, and the author cites
numerous instances to support his plea that this reaction
is not mechanical but is purposive and is the result of
selection from a variety of alternatives.

The last ten lectures are devoted to studies in evolu-
tion, and the conception of nature as a cruel mistress
is further refuted. It is stated that the death-crisis of
a mouse killed by a rattle-snake is but thirteen seconds,
while that of a thrush killed by a golden eagle is less
than half that. Of interest, too, is the statement that
disease is rare under natural conditions. An unusually
large bibliography of over 400 books is given and a
complete indeX concludes the book. Its literary value
is high, some passages being very beautiful; although
scientific it is reverent; and it is eminently readable, al-
though a dictionary is desirable for those who are not
sc1ent1fic speC1allsts. J. R. HARMAN.

Is N ature Cruel? By J. Crowther Hirst. 61 pp. (G. Bell
85 Sons, 1926. Is.)

In this little treatise the author sets forth the result of
an investigation as to whether nature is as cruel as would
appear, that is, whether animals that prey upon others
for food really inﬂict pain and suffering. He has col—
lected evidence from men who have been mauled and
wounded by tigers or lions. Nearly all of them record
a partial anaesthesia and no real pain during the process.
By analogy Mr. Hirst concludes that animals, being
possibly of a less sensitive nervous organism than man,

 

 

 

 




 

NOTICES OF BOOKS 127

do not suffer when they become the prey of a larger
and stronger creature in the ordinary course of nature.
Within its brief compass the book is interesting and
suggestive on this vast and diﬂﬁcult subject.

C. M. KNIGHT.

The Study of Animal Life. By J. Arthur Thomson,
M.A., LL.D., Regius Professor of Natural History
in the University of Aberdeen. (John Murray, 4th
Revised Edition, I917. 63.)

As an introduction to Zoological Science this book
would be hard to improve upon. Appearing ﬁrst in
1892, it has now achieved a fourth edition, and has been
revised. The scope of the book is clearly set forth in the
preface, from which the following is quoted: “ Its plan
is simple: (a) it begins with the everyday life of animals,
their haunts, their interrelations, their struggles, their
industries, their family life, their behaviour, and their
internal activities; (b) the second aspect considered is
that of structure—the multitudinous forms of animal
life and their architecture; (0) the third part has to do
with the continuance of the race and with life-histories;
(d) ﬁnally, the facts and problems of evolution are
illustrated. The four parts of the book will appeal to
students of different tastes. Each of these aspects has its
own interest . . . but all must be taken into account
if we are to get an all—round view of animal life.”

The author’s facility for interesting his audience and
for making even the most complicated subject appear
easy to understand is nowhere better illustrated than
. in thi .

. S bOOk P. HAAS.

 




 

 

128 THE ANIMAL YEAR-BOOK

The Gospel of Evolution. By Prof. J. Arthur Thomson.
London. 21 I pp. (George Newnes, Ltd., I 92 5. 25.)

This is No. 5 of the series known as " John 0’ London’s
Little Books.” Drawing upon the almost unlimited re-
sources supplied both by the organic and the inorganic
world, the author unfolds in simple language the main
outlines of the doctrine of evolution. In the opening
chapter, entitled " What Evolution Means,” the author
traces the historical development of evolution, and
summarises his views on the relation between science
and religion. The second chapter, on; " Great Steps in
Evolution,” is adapted from The Outline of Science,
edited by this author. Then follow chapters on
" The Fact of Evolution ” and " How Evolution
Works.” In Chapter V man’s relation to the apes is
explained; it may come as a relief to many, who in their
ignorance may have thought that man was supposed
to be derived from any existing simian, to be told that
the anthropoid apes diverged from the stock of old-
world monkeys in geological times, and that later,
perhaps a million years or more, " the human family
parted company with the giant apes, which continued
on paths of their own, leading to the orangs, chim—
panzees, and gorillas of to—day,” and that “ the human
family had a long way to travel before man emerged.”

The last chapter bears the same title as is given to the
entire volume, the avowed object of which is to set
forth that “ the story of evolution has good news for

3’

man.

P. HAAs.

 




 

NOTICES OF BOOKS 129

Habits and Characters of Britt's/9 Wild Animals. By H.
Mortimer Batten. 346 pp. (Chambers, 1920; re-
printed 1928. 75. 6d.)

This is nOt the work of a sentimentalist, but of a
sportsman with a sympathetic and imaginative mind,
whose chief joy in the country is afforded by the wild
creatures of the hills and woods. Mr. Mortimer Batten
never fails to appreciate the beauty, grace, and clever-
ness of these animals. He has long associated with them,
and studies the animals as they are in their natural life
without attributing to them human motives, and with-
out any theories of’ animal psychology. He deals with
the red deer, the roedeer, the fox, the weasel and the
stoat, the otter, the pine—martin, the badger, the pole-
cat, the brown hare, the blue or mountain hare, the
rabbit, the hedgehog, the squirrel, the grey or brown
rat, the water-rat, and the wild cat; each animal is
taken in turn, and its appearance, size, physical charac-
teristics and food, its breeding, its habitat, its profusion
or rarity, its mental characteristics in relation to its own a
species and other animals and to man, are described.

The book is fascinating reading, and its accuracy and
method of treatment of the subject make it a valuable
work of reference. It is well that workers in the cause
of animals, who are inclined to overzeal untempered by
accuracy, should take to heart Mr. Mortimer Batten’s
advice: " It has become customary for naturalists to
plead the cause of the birds and beasts they wish to see
protected by underestimating the amount of harm they
do, and by putting forth sentimental claims which
merely irritate the man who knows. Accurate reports,

9

 




'130 THE ANIMAL YEAR-BOOK

backed by authentic figures, are far more likely to yield
the desired results.”

Mr. Mortimer Batten is enthusiastic for the preserva-
tion of the fauna of the British Isles, and more than
once hints at the unfairness of those who would possess
all the hillside as a game-preserve, and ruthlessly kill,
even to the point of extermination, any animal that may
possibly attack their birds. Often animals that pay their
way so far as the farmer is concerned are persecuted by
the gamekeepers; not rarely hedgehogs, badgers, and
weasels have paid the penalty for the. misdeeds of the
“ tame ” domestic cat! Such is the ignorance and in-
justice of man.

Mr. Mortimer Batten gives us a good deal of informa-
tion concerning the trapping of some of the animals.
He describes the cruelty of badger—digging and the
barbarous method of hunting otters and musquash,
practised by the Canadian—Indians. The chapter on the
common grey rat is useful, and calls attention to the
alarming increase in the rat population of this country
during the last decade, with its attendant dangers, unless
immediate steps are taken for its reduction. The boo-k ..
is beautifully illustrated by the artist, Warwick
Reynolds, with, as the author reminds us, “ minute

accuracy of detail.” C M KNIGHT

In the Land of the Lion. By Cherry Kearton. 256 pp.,
with 88 plates. (Arrowsmith, I929. 103. 6d.)

“ Mr. Cherry Kearton, the pioneer of big—game photo-
graphy, discloses in this book all his discoveries and the
results of his observation of wild life in Central Africa

 

 

 

 




 

NOTICES OF BOOKS I31

during the last thirty years. Dealing in turn with nearly
every animal, bird, reptile, and insect found in that
country—from the lion to the locust-"he describes the
habits of wild creatures when they are unsuspicious of
the presence of man, as well as when they suspect
danger. Necessarily, in such an account, he has many a
story to tell of thrilling adventure.”

This publisher’s note, summarising from a general
standpoint, fails to mention the true signiﬁcance of
Mr. Kearton’s work. Mr. Kearton, gentle in his treat-
ment of animals, is equally mild though decided in his
criticisms of man. He gives due warning that, despite
game preserves and limitation of licences for killing,
" animal life (in Africa) is disappearing at a rate that
would astonish the casual observer.” Reckless “ sport ”
is on the increase. During the war, in German East
Africa, Mr. Kearto-n had forcibly to restrain a party of
oﬂﬁicers from ﬁring into a herd of giraffe with a Lewis
gun!

" Even twenty years ago, the number of victims was
regulated by the number of miles that a man could
march in a day; but now he can travel five times that
distance in a car, and his ‘ bag ’ is therefore at least
ﬁve times as great.”

After recording an incident in which a hunter shot no
fewer than one hundred and twelve rhino, Mr. Kearton
emphasises the need for protection.

" In South Africa proof has been given that protection
——real protection—is possible. And what can be done

in South Africa can certainly be done also in Central
Africa.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

I32 THE ANIMAL YEAR-BOOK

“ The first step must be the keeping of the Game
Reserve for the game on whose behalf it was created.
I regret to say that this is not done at present. Indian
trading stores are now to be found almost in the heart
of the Reserve—and it would be interesting to know
who is responsible for allowing them to be there. Motor-
lorries carry goods from one of these stores to another;
and thus the Game Reserve threatens gradually to be—
come a commercial trading ground instead of remaining
a sanctuary.”

Mr. Kearton devotes a chapter to each of the major
animals, and shows how, in the greater number of
instances, the animal is normally mild-mannered and
peace-loving. Even the buffalo is not so much ﬁerce by
nature as inquisitive. Only when in contact with man
do the animals become savage and embittered. The eX-
cellent photographs which illustrate this book show that
it is possible to get to know animals by other means
than the riﬂe and the zoological garden. Mr. Kearton
invariably travels unarmed, and only “ shoots ” with
the camera.

To all those who saw the ﬁlm “ Tembi ” (and to all
those who did not) we would say, “ Buy this book with—
out a moment’s delay.”

S. G. WEST.

The Childhood of Animals. By P. Chalmers Mitchell.
269 pp. (Heinemann, 1912. 73. 6d.)
The foundation-stone of this book was laid at the
Christmas Lectures at the Royal Institution, 1911—12.
These lectures were adapted for a juvenile auditory,

 




 

NOTICES OF BOOKS 133

but the book has been written rather for the adult. The
object of the book is to show the development in animal
life of the youth characteristics, and this theme is
developed with great detail and yet with surprisingly
few technical terms. The author shows his ability to
perform this task in the examples he quotes, for there
is hardly an animal for which the author has not some
intimate detail to record. His material is mainly conﬁned
to mammals, birds, and to a lesser degree fish, but
insects are dealt with to illustrate the difficulty of
defining the youth period. The surprising differences
in colour between young animals and the adults is
adequately treated, with references to theories which
attempt to explain the preponderance of a certain
coloration among a certain group of animals. It is also
noted that brood—care develops as the scale of life is
ascended, and is accompanied by a limitation of family.

In discussing the food of young animals, the author
mentions the feeding of live animals to snakes, and
describes several experiments which appear to show that
this is rarely necessary, but that where it has to be
resorted to, the death is as painless as When an animal
is killed for human food (whether by a humane killer
is not stated!), and that relatively few animals are
terrified by snakes. The chapter dealing with the taming
of animals is provocative, since the author deﬁnes this
as transferring affection from the mother to the human
being. Dogs are regarded as “ animate toys ” which are
destroyed if by chance any original spirit appears in
them. Apparently taming is " all done by kindness,”
and scorn is poured on those who take pleasure in seeing

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

134 THE ANIMAL YEAR-BOOK

animals perform unnatural tricks. The book concludes
with a sound discussion of the purpose of youth and
education. It is admirably illustrated by E. Yarrow
Jones in colour, and R. B. Brook-Greaves provides
adequate line drawings. An index is provided.

J. R. HARMAN.

Wild Life at the Land’s End. By J. C. Tregarthen.
233 pp. (John Murray, 1904; reprinted I929.
73. 661.)

Although he writes as a sportsman of the old school,
the author cannot conceal the naturalist in him: he is
a naturalist first, a sportsman second, and one can
imagine him echoing the sentiments of the old Earth-
stopper when the seal is killed: “ Pity we can’t have
spoart without killing.” He deals with the lives of the
fox, badger, otter, and hare as only a man can who
knows these creatures in their haunts: there can be few
authors who are able to give pen pictures of a hunt,
such that the reader’s sympathy is with the hunted,
though he follows the hounds with almost as much
excitement as the huntsmen themselves. There is a sense
of disappointment in- the book when the hounds pull
down the fox, and it would perhaps be better if the
story of Reynard succeeded those of the badger, otter
and hare, instead of preceding them, for they have
happier endings. The reviewer has no sympathy with
blood sports, but while they exist may their devotees be
of the J. C. Tregarthen type.

Odd snatches of folk-lore are scattered through the
book, but they are all too brief. What a delightful com—

 




 

NOTICES OF BOOKS 135

panion to the above volume would be one dealing with
the people of the wild, bleak country the authOr knows
so well, and with the stories that are told over the furze
ﬁres of a winter’s night.

F. W. JANE.

Realities of Bird Life. By Edmund Selous. 341, pp.
(Constable 85 Co., 1927. I45.)

It, would be impossible to imagine anything ‘more
calculated to arouse interest in bird life than these
selections from Mr. Selous’ diary—vivid and absorbing
memoirs of his adventures in the bird realm. Their
success is assured in the first place by the joy they
reveal in wild life and its surroundings, a joy which
the author himself recognises in his preface as one of
the driving forces to which he assigns his credit. But
this alone is not responsible for the power and con-
viction of the work; it is the outcome, too, Mr. Selous
tells us, of an intellectual love of truth. The author’s
aim is to vindicate Darwin’s theory of sexual selection,
and he has carried out this aim by a penetrating and
tireless study of the courtship habits of birds with
regard to their bearing in general upon evolutionary
problems. Thereby he has not only unfolded a vast
number of interesting facts which cannot be found in
the regular bird books, but has produced at the same
time a work which has proved of inestimable' value
to biological science. In Mr. Selous’ book we are far
from the picturesque ﬁction so often given us as a
revelation of wild life. The title, Realities of Bird Life,
gives at once the key to its contents. Thanks to the

 




 

 

 

136 THE ANIMAL YEAR—BOOK

author’s energy in recording immediately his many
observations, we do not suffer from that vague generali-
sation so often prevalent in works of this kind. Rather
are we with him at every step, and note with unﬂagging
interest the innumerable dramas enacted before us. Nor
do facts alone make for the clearness of the pictures——
Mr. Selous’ word-painting adds much to their charm.
He knows, too, how to introduce amazingly apt quota-
tions, which form yet another attraction of the book.
In conclusion one may say, therefore, that these diary
extracts have been moulded into a book of great scien—
tiﬁc as well as literary value. There is a good index, which
adds to its utility as a work of reference. Everyone
who reads this book must acknowledge the author’s art
and recognise the fascination of watching birds. Prof.
Julian Huxley has contributed an introduction in which
he claims that the methods of Mr. Selous and other
ﬁeld naturalists have become a true branch of scientiﬁc
research and in which he adds some of his own observa-
tions relevant to these aspects of bird life.

D. E. PLUMMER.

Pris/2y Tales. By Lady Farren. 179 pp. (Black, 1928.
6s.)

Frisky Tales is a most delightful series of short, true
nature stories, based upon talks that Lady Farren used
to give in Kensington Gardens on ﬁne Saturday morn-
ings. The stories are of dogs, squirrels, birds of all kinds,
butterﬂies, moths, and caterpillars, and ﬂowers, and con-
stitute an ideal book for children, containing many good
suggestions for them to conduct their nature study in

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

NOTICES OF BOOKS I37

an interesting and proﬁtable way. The photographs in
the book are very good, and much trouble must have
been spent to get some of them. This must be one of
the best books of its kind, and can be unhesitatingly
recommended. W. G. BOYD.

My Tropical Air Castle. By F. M. Chapman. 417 pp.
(Appleton, New York, 1929. $5.00.)

Dr. Chapman is Curator of Birds. in the American
Museum of Natural History, and has already made his
name as an ornithologist and author of popular books
on ornithology. His “ castle ” is a very comfortable and
well-equipped cabin on Barro Colorado, an island in the
Panama Canal Zone that has been set aside for the
conservation and study of the fauna and ﬂora of the
district. It is a highly favoured spot in the tropical
regions, almost covered with a splendid primeval forest.
This gives an excellent opportunity for detailed study
of the birds and animals in their natural surroundings,
and Dr. Chapman has in this book made a romance Out
of his intimate connections with these natives of the
district.

The illustrations are an outstanding feature of the
book; many of them, taken by ﬂashlight with a camera
trap, are exceptionally good. Nor are there lacking
plenty of touches of humour. For instance, we have a
man from the waist downwards—a trespasser who un—
wittingly walked into a camera trap set for an " animal
lower in stature, as well as in the zoological scale,” but
nevertheless secured classiﬁcation under the species
Homo sapiens.

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

138 THE ANIMAL YEAR—BOOK

A laboratory, home, and working quarters have been
established on the island, and are always available for
students. Those who can go to Barro Colorado have a
unique opportunity, but so long as Dr. Chapman writes
such thrilling books and adds to them such ﬁrst-class
photographs, we shall feel that we are not altogether
without our share in it.

W. G. BOYD.

Animals Looking at You. By Paul Eipper. Translated
by Patrick Kirwan. 187 pp. (G. P. Putnam’s Sons,
1929. 105. 6d.)

At ﬁrst sight it will probably strike most people that
this book is simply what the note on the “ jacket ”
claims for it——-"‘ the outcome of more than thirty years’
close and sympathetic observation of animals in cap—
tivity.” While the well—written vignettes give the
impression that the author is a " passionate lover of
animals,” the general atmosphere is such that we cannot
admit that the book is wholly innocuous.

We should have welcomed from a man of Mr. Eipper’s
experience a work of a more deﬁnitive, more creative
character: his sketches show ample opportunities where
he might have made a progressive bid for improvement
and reform in the methods and manner of keeping
animals in captivity. But apart from his safeguarding
preface, he is strangely silent on this question, of
concern to every animal lover.

Again, Mr. Eipper has looked well at the animals, and
so, in print, asks us to believe that the animals are look-
ing at us. But Mr. Eipper is a conscious artist, and the




NOTICES OF BOOKS 139

intense subjectivity of the book shakes our faith in the
genuine nature and extent of his experience. The animal

, never looks at us voluntarily, only when induced to do

so by Mr. Eipper. Consequently, we. remain the in—
terested spectators of a dumb show, instead of attuning
our sensibilities to an intelligent understanding of the
animal’s feelings. In a word, Mr. Eipper refuses to allow
us to loo-k at captivity through an animal’s eyes.

In the preface, "I look at the Animals,” the author
sets forth his apologia of the zoological garden. He
admits that " It is a different thing to stand on the
African plains and watch the thousand—headed herds of
gnu, ante-lope, ostrich, zebra, and giraffe; or to see the
tiger in its native jungle, the elephant at the water-hole,
and the monitor lizard in the tropic sand . . . that it
is one thing to watch these creatures in the full freedom
of nature and another to see them caged, barred, and
conﬁned in a zoological garden as prisoners of man.”

He contends that it is an injustice to condemn zoos as
mere “ breeding-places,” and argues, with the sophistry
of a Lotos—Eater, that we are conferring the greatest
beneﬁt imaginable in relieving “ the animal of its
weary, danger-fraught hunt for food ” by giving it
in exchange, forsooth, a term of life-imprisonment. In
addition, of course, we give the animal the ineffable
privilege of having man as his lord and protector.

Apart from these rather mixed blessings, the animal
does not appear to derive any particular advantage from
the loss of his liberty. The advantages are all with the
human: " To-day the zoological garden offers us a way

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

I40 THE ANIMAL YEAR-BOOK

to nature, education for our youth, and an almost in-
calculable wealth of materials for science and the arts.”
But we will not join issue over the vexed question of the
ethics of the zoological garden, nor. will we stop to
enquire, if the zoological garden really does offer a way
to nature, how far the average person gets to it; or to
ask ourselves whether the natural history museum is a
waste of time and money; or to consider whether
recorded observations of animals in their natural sur-
roundings (as exempliﬁed by the kinematographic work
of Mr. Cherry Kearton and Commander Dyott) are
not more valuable as a true guide to the life and
characteristics of an animal than the impressions gained
from his abnormal behaviour when subjected to‘ un-
accustomed captivity.

Postulating, though not necessarily condoning, the
existence of zoological gardens, we applaud Mr. Eipper’s
insistence on the observance of two conditions, where?
ever animals are exhibited, viz. space, and two of every
kind, as necessary for health. With Mr. Eipper we give
due credit to Hagenbeck and his sons for their humane
improvements. But we deplore Mr. Eipper’s reticence
on the matter of those zoological gardens which are
not so ideally conducted, of travelling circuses and
menageries.

Consider the following: " In 1912, in the Polar pano—
rama of the Helabrunn Zoo, I saw the tragedy of a
Polar bear—~—pitiful and inevitable—«that ended in its
death. The beast had been bought from a travelling
menagerie, where for years it had been conﬁned in a
narrow cage. '

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

NOTICES OF BOOKS 141

" Now it was given freedom. But even here, where it
could climb rocks and crags, swim and bathe, and dive
to the heart’s content, even here it could still see the
conﬁning prison bars. Scarcely was it put into the
spacious enclosure than it sought out a ﬂat plateau,
and day by day and week by week the whole winter
through, and into the ﬁrst weeks of spring, it shambled
its siX paces forward and seven paces backwards.

“ Was its food thrown in another place down below on
the lake-side or above among the rocks, it was left lying
there untouched. The wide world held no freedom for
this poor prisoner.”

Mr. Eipper’s only comment on this tragedy is that it
was " pitiful and inevitable.” If he felt any indignation
at the original treatment of the bear, he has successfully
concealed it; so also in the case of the demented bear;
the domesticated lioness, haled from the palace court-
yard of Ethiopia to conﬁnement in Berlin; the wolf at
Schoenbrunn; Mr. Eipper refrains from comment or
merely records his pity.

It is this attitude of mind to which we object. In his
preface the author states: “ In this age of triumphant
mechanisation we dare not allow any single living
creature’s right of existence to be challenged. The
animal lover needs the zoological garden.” The ﬁrst
sentence obviously implies that the animal has deﬁnite
need of the zoological garden for its own preservation.
This, however, is a piece of sophistry too defeasible, and
Mr. Eipper deftly changes his subject to the “ animal
lover.” That he had this in mind is shown by his next

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

142 THE ANIMAL YEAR-BOOK‘

sentence: " But let me first give warning against any
superciliousness.” Unfortunately, he admits it on the
following page: "No zoological garden has cause to
complain of lack of visitors. The modern city dweller
throngs to every spectacle, and it gratiﬁes him to stand
and ﬁnd joking resemblance between this animal and
the man neXt door, between that animal and an un-
congenial- relative or ridiculous acquaintance, and
ﬁnally to crown his observations with a comforting
moral reﬂection. And who would gainsay him this
pleasure or say he gives offence to his brothers the
animals in so doing?”

And his “ superiority complex ” is indicated elsewhere:
“ He (a strange, lean wolf) loped swiftly up and down
his cage’s length nor heeded the meat that lay in the
corner. His tongue lolled from out his jaws. He gasped
but seemed to have no time to pause for breath. He
drummed out his path in quick rhythmic beats. Never
did he cease to run like some grey spectre, an endless
to and fro, mile upon mile. If he had only known how
useless it all was.”

If he had only known how useless it all was!

As Mr. Eipper says in another place: “ Sympathy is a
virtue unknown in nature.”

We believe that Mr. Eipper has an understanding of
animals, but whether he has the truly companionable
spirit of animal sympathy we are uncertain. However,
there are some very good illustrations.

S. G. WEST.

 




 

NOTICES OF BOOKS I43

Wild Creatures of Garden and Hedgerow. By Frances

Pitt. 285 pp. (Constable, I920; new edition I928.
73. 6d.)

Like all the works of this distinguished naturalist, this
book is based on direct patient observation of nature.
Miss Pitt has the peculiar gift of getting into direct
communication with the minds of even the most timid
and smallest wild creatures. Her books and her method
are particularly useful to those who are concerned with
the education of children to a humane regard for all
animals. Incidentally, Miss Pitt shows the folly of many
popular superstitions, fallacies, fears, and prejudices in
connection with the small wild animals of the country-
side: the ignorance which leads to the killing of the
harmless, insect—eating bats, shrews, hedgehogs, and
blindworms. She warns us to preserve the migratory
birds, all insect-eaters, and not to allow owls and hawks
to be shot, trapped, or deprived of their eggs. Owls,
kestrels, and hawks, as well as foxes and badgers, save us
from plagues of destructive field-mice (especially the
short-tailed field—vole) . By not interfering with animals
“ we preserve the Balance of Nature, and then no animal
gets too plentiful.” The book is illustrated from won-

derful photographs.
C. M. KNIGHT.

Wild Birds in City Par/es. By Herbert Eugene Walter
and Alice Hall Walter. III pp. (The Macmillan
Co., 1926. 6s. 661.)

This book consists of a dictionary of the wild birds
found in the parks of America (their size, appearance,

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

I44. THE ANIMAL YEAR-BOOK

and notes), tables of distribution and migration, and
a key to guide the student in the identiﬁcation of any
unknown bird. The subject is of no immediate value to
us; but its methods would be useful to naturalists who
are making similar observations in this country.

C. M. KNIGHT.

Animal Life Lessons. By George Guest, B.A. 152 pp.
(G. Bell 86 Sons, I919. 3s. 651.).

This book is intended primarily for teachers of nature
study in elementary and preparatory schools. The sub-
ject-matter is divided into lessons, one or two being de-
voted to each domestic animal. A history and general
description of the animal is followed by instructions as
to its wants and how to look after it correctly. Then
there is a description of how not to treat the animal,
and, as in the case of fur animals and birds for adorn-
ment, a description of the cruelties practised upon them.
At the end of each lesson there is a list of questions to
be used by the teacher as suggestions for leading a dis—
cussion on the lesson.

E. GALE.

Anaesthetics and N arcosis of Animals and Birds. By
F. T. C. Hobday. Pp. Xi —}— 86, with 24 illustrations
and indeX. (Bailliére, Tindall 8: Cox, London,
1915.5s)

That the alleviation of pain, which the pioneer work
of the nineteenth century has effected for suffering
humanity, should be extended to beneﬁt the creatures
for whose well-being man is responsible, must be the

 




 

NOTICES OF BOOKS 145

wish of all animal-lovers. Anaesthetics not only make it
possible to operate without inﬂicting too much pain,
but their judicious use enables the surgeon to perform
on an inert and unresisting body operations that would
otherwise be quite, beyond his skill. And if this applies
to his work on human patients, how much more true
is it of that on terriﬁed animals, to whom a promise of
relief means nothing, and to whom he cannot explain
the necessity for quiet and self—control.

Yet we have all heard of cases where it was said that
" the operation was successful, but the patient died.”
General anaesthetics can be administered with reasonable
chance of safety only where knowledge of structure and
function guides the operator; and while it is true that
the other mammals are built on the same fundamental
ground-plan with man himself, and use their intestines,
hearts, and lungs in the same sort of ways, the differ-
ences that do exist between the relative proportions of
the organs and between their several mechanisms make
it very necessary that methods applied to human beings
should be modiﬁed where cats, dOgs, horses, and cattle
are the subjects for operation. There must be knowledge
of comparative anatomy and physiology, and there
should also be knowledge of comparative psychology, if
the surgeon is to succeed.

Animal-lovers owe Prof. Hobday a profound debt
,of gratitude for the pioneer work recorded in this
book. The directions he gives are based on many years
of experience, and on carefully controlled experiment.
It is good to read of the success that attends the increas-
ing use of local anaesthetics and of narcotics; and Prof.

Io

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

146 THE ANIMAL YEAR-BOOK

Hobday’s opinion that animals very quickly throw off
the effects of the unpleasant experience should do much
to reassure the owners of beloved pets who have to
expose these to the ordeal. .
D. L. MACKINNON.

Whaling N art/9 and Sout/o. By P. V. Morley and J. S.
Hodgson. 229 pp. (Methuen 8?, Co., I 927. 103. 661.)

Mr. Morley, in the spirit of sport and adventure, joined
a whaling expedition going north; Mr. Hodgson, for the
purpose of obtaining photographs and kinematograph
ﬁlms of whaling, joined one going south. The book
which they have produced from their experiences on
these expeditions, though not written especially for
humanitarians, is nevertheless interesting to those of us
who are ready to extend our sympathetic understanding
of animals even to these vast creatures of the seas. We
learn a good deal about the history of the whale, and
the various species of whales. We are given a description
. of a ﬂensing station—and a very unpleasant picture it ~
is. The equipment of a whaling expedition, the boats
used, the factory-ship, and the life of the men are de-
scribed in breezy style. A whale hunt, and the old and
new methods of killing, are given. The modern harpoon-
gun, its size, method of loading and use, is described in
great detail. From both parts of this book it is undeni-
able that, in spite of modern methods, whaling involves
terrible cruelty. As is perhaps inevitable in the heavy
seas, where whaling is now carried on, the harpoon—gun
is very often untrue in its aim, and apparently a ﬁght
with a wounded whale, lasting over some three hours,

 




 

NOTICES OF BOOKS I47

during which time he is suffering and blowing a mixture
of blood and water into the air, before he can be
despatched by a second harpoon, is no uncommon
occurrence. Very often the wounded whale is not
killed, but makes his escape. Galled and scarred
whales are not rarely met with in these seas.
In fact, it is a custom among Whalers, when
they have “ missed,” to suppose that their anticipated
victim is an old stager who has been in a hunt
before, and not to follow him up farther. The speed
with which the carcases are disposed of and the thor-
oughness with which the seas are scoured, by modern
methods make the extinction of whales no remote possi-
bility. The book is well illustrated from photographs.

C. M. KNIGHT.

The Spanish Bull-ring. By J. Morewood Dowsett. 51 pp.
John Bale, Sons 8C Danielsson, 1928. 3s. 661.)

Mr. Dowsett traces the history of the bull—ﬁght. Its
early origin is uncertain; some assert that it is as old as
ancient Roman times, which seems unlikely; others that
it was introduced by the Arabs; but Spanish writers
maintain that it is of purely Spanish origin. However
that may be, it seems to be a development from a straight
contest between a man and a wild bull. Even in the
middle of the fourteenth century it became a sport of
the people in contrast to the nobility, and the " art of
bull-ﬁghting ” and professionalism arose; the " art
became more and more brutal until we get to the
revolting shows of the present day. At different times
attempts have been made, sometimes by the ruling

93

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

148 TH.E ANIMAL YEAR-BOOK

monarch and sometimes by the Church, to abolish this
" sport,” but always without success. It must be noted
that such attempts were always prompted by the
possible loss of human life, and never by the suffering
which it inﬂicts on the animals. '

Mr. Dowsett has witnessed many bull—ﬁghts and gives
us ﬁrst-hand information on the so—called " art ”: the
torturing of the bull and the ﬁendish cruelty inﬂicted
on the horses. These old, worn—out horses, bought for a
few pesetas, are kept, previous to the fight, close-packed
generally in ﬁlthy stables. Before they enter the ring
their vocal cords are brutally cut to prevent them from
screaming, their ears stopped and tightly tied with
string, and their right eye bandaged, so that they cannot
see the approach of the bull. During the ﬁght, after
being gored and having their entrails torn out, they are
roughly sewn up and returned again and again to the
ring as long as they can stand and carry the picador.
The audience never gives a moment’s thought to the
revolting cruelty inﬂicted on these animals. Mr. Dow-
sett estimates that not less than I, 500 bulls and 6,000
horses are tortured and killed in bull-ﬁghts in Spain
yearly.

We read that reform was begun in connection with
bull-fights. The use of the Banderz’llas ale fuego (ﬁre-
darts) was absolutely forbidden by the Royal
Order of June '14, 1928 (but see p. 71). The
horse was protected by a cuirass. Public opinion in
Spain seems to be awakening in this connection, and we
may hope that if reformers persist in their efforts the
horse may disappear from the bull-ring and that bull-

 




 

NOTICES OF BOOKS. _ 149

ﬁghting will gradually lose some of its popularity and
ﬁnally be abolished. Mr. Dowsett is to be congratulated
on his splendid work for the animal cause in Spain, and
especially for the information which he has collected,
and the photographs which illustrate his books. These
must have been obtained often at personal risk.

C. M. KNIGHT.

The Spanish Ball—Fight. By J. Morewood Dowsett.
II pp. (John Bale, Sons 85 Danielsson. 351.)

This little pamphlet summarises the bull-fight with
all its vulgarity and cruelty. It ends with an appeal to
us to prevent the exportation of horses to the Continent

for butchery.
C. M. KNIGHT.

Animal Management. Prepared in the Veterinary De-
partment of the War Ofﬁce. (ELM. Stationery
Ofﬁce, London, 1923. 25.)

Designed, as is obvious from its origin, as an army
manual, this is a very interesting book which will well
repay the reader in search of information on animal
management. The animals dealt with include the mule,
donkey, camel, and OX, in addition to the horse.
After a couple of chapters on animal structure and
function, and the points of a horse, colours, marking,
and age, there follow successively chapters on stable
construction and ﬁttings; stable management, including
a section on stable tricks and vices; foods; management
of horses in the open, including swimming; saddles and
collars; the foot and shoeing; prevention and ﬁrst-aid

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ISO THE ANIMAL YEAR-BOOK

treatment of disease. Written throughout in a very clear
and business-like manner, the book imparts to the lay
reader a remarkably clear insight into the principles of
veterinary hygiene. There are a number of illustrations,
including some quite good representations of the com—
moner fodder grasses. Needless to say, overseas condi-
tions have received full consideration as well as _
transport by sea and rail. Altogether a most interesting
and instructive production at a very reasonable price.

P. HAAs.

Diseases of Animals in Relation to Man. ByiT. W. M.
Cameron. 221 pp. (Faber 85 Gwyer (Modern
Health Books Series), 1926. 3s. 6d.)

This is by no means a technical discussion for special-
ists, but a popular book written to satisfy a public de-
mand for knowledge of this. sort; and it is written by
a scholar of wide reading, who can quote Thucydides,
Tacitus, or the Bible with equal facility and point. The
matter is treated from the point of View of man rather
than of the animal, but it should prove invaluable
to any that are engaged in the care of animals of any
sort; while members of the general public could read
the book with great proﬁt, for it is most interestingly
written, and contains much useful knowledge which
aﬁects man as much as the animals. As it is a recent
book (1926) , and the work of an authority, some of
the pronouncements against popular notions at present
widespread are particularly welcome. The author was.
one of the earliest members of the Council of the Uni-

versity of London Animal Welfare Society.
W. G. BOYD.

 




 

NOTICES OF BOOKS 151

Rats and How to Destroy Them. By Mark Hovell,
F.R.C.S. Demy 8vo, pp. xlvii —l— 46 5, with 51 illus-
trations. (John Bale, Sons 85 Danielsson, Ltd.,
London, I924. 103. 6d.)

The problem of humane rat destruction is exceedingly
difficult: rats are exceptionally sensitive and intelligent,
most of the known methods are excessively cruel, and
the number of animals affected is very large. The present
treatise gives an almost exhaustive study of the facts
which must be known by anyone who would study the
question. Successive chapters deal with the habits of
rats, traps, trap—signals, snares, ferrets, poisoning, virus,
blocking, ﬂooding, fumigation, varnish, and the Rodier
system. The instructions are then summarised and re-
arranged in sections which deal with the systematic pro-
cedures appropriate to various rat—habitats, such as
houses, gardens, ships, and the like. The author rejects
as entirely unfounded the claims which have been made
on behalf of viruses, the Rodier system as applied to
rats, and those poisons which are alleged to prevent dead
rats from becoming malodorous. He is by no means in-
sensible to humane considerations, but holds that “ the
more thoroughly the present race of rats is destroyed the
fewer descendants there will be to suffer.”

The only humane poison appears to be strychnine. The
author recommends red squill as humane, but does not
seem to be aware that to have this property the drug
must be fresh and of the highest quality. Barium, arsenic,
and phosphorus are acknowledged to be excessively
cruel: barium carbonate “ produces convulsive move-
ments and haemorrhages in the stomach, intestines, and

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

152 THE ANIMAL YEAR-BOOK

kidneys. It probably causes severe abdominal pain. Death
may occur within a few hours, or from two to three
days.”

Traps are useful for occasional rats only. The 4-inch
gin is condemned as cruel and ineffective, whereas the
5-inch gin (rabbit—trap) is stated to kill outright, if the
bearings are well oiled. Trapping is difficult on account
of the astuteness of the rat: detailed instructions must
be minutely observed, and signals must be employed to
indicate when a trap has been sprung.

It is to be hoped that future editions will mention
recent humane inventions, such as the Lewis snare and
the Cookson trap, both of which kill outright: and that
they will give instructions for killing rats caught alive.
Drowning takes a long time in the case of these animals;
a good dog, coal-gas, chloroform, or motor-car exhaust
gas might be recommended.

Under “ fumigation,” the only methods described are
those in which sulphur dioxide is used (" smoke fer-
rets ”) . Unfortunately, however, a sub-lethal dose of
this gas produces slow suffocation due to inﬂammation
of the lungs, so that a rat may be choking for twenty-
four hours. Future editions might advantageously men-
tion the very humane carbon dioxide (which may be
used in cylinders and mixed with phosphine for safety’s
sake), coal-gas, motor-car exhaust gas, and cyanogen
compounds such as " Cyanogas.” These methods require
care, if they are not to endanger human life.

Special attention ought to be paid to the chapter on
“ blocking,” which is a most humane and practicable
method. Rats are enticed into a closed area by means

 

 

 




 

 

 

NOTICES OF BOOKS 153

which are described in great detail on pp. 173 et seq. and
are then killed en masse with dogs, hand-weapons, or
gas.

Such a valuable book deserves many editions, in which
humane considerations might advantageously receive in—
creasing emphasis. The thoroughness with which the
subject is treated may be gauged from the detailed in-
structions (p. 210) for the use of bluebottles as sleuth-
hounds for the tracking of dead rats behind the walls!

C. W. HUME.

The Kai: A World Menace. By A. Moore Hogarth,
F.E.S. Demy 8vo, pp. 112, with 10 illustrations.

(John Bale, Sons 8C Danielsson, Ltd., 1929.
73. 6d.)

This book contains at least as much propaganda as
information, and for practical purposes is much inferior
to Hovell’s Rats and H 011/ 250 Destroy Them, to which it
is indebted. It} is gratifying to learn, fro-m the errata
slip, that the Ministry of Agriculture does not recom—
mend the use Of SC). (on the market as " Taboo ” gas
or as produced by " smoke ferrets ” and the Clayton
gassing machine), a sub—lethal dose of which leads to a
most cruel death. The author claims that Ratin Virus
is effective and, unlike other viruses, free from danger
to human beings. If this claim is well founded, it is
worthy of consideration, since Ratin, though not
humane, appears to be less cruel than the commoner
poisons. The author recommends the Rodier system, on
grounds which have been shown by Hovell to be fal—
lacious, and adds the instruction: " For convenience,

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

154 THE ANIMAL YEAR-BOOK

cut off half the tail of all males released alive.” The
book exhibits a total indifference to humane Con—

siderations.

C. W. HUME.

Breaking a Bird Dog. By Horace Lytle. 167 pp. (D.
Appleton 8: Company, 1924. 85. 6d.)

While the practice of bird-shooting continues to be
regarded as one of the healthy features of our English
civilisation, our self-styled sportsmen will presumably
continue to break and train dogs to become pointers
and retrievers. On the major issue, Mr. Lytle’s book has

no claim to inclusion in these notices. But inasmuch as _

it marks a deﬁnite advance in the method of bird-dog
breaking and training from a humane point of view,
it is a treatise worthy of the Sportsman’s attention. The
training is based on the assumption that the dog wants
to do what his master wants him to do; that while the
dog’s confidence is taken for granted, there must eXist
between dog and trainer a perfect companionship; and
that, ‘while patience and sympathy are essential, the
trainer must have the desire to undertake the work
(with a full appreciation of the interesting psycho-
logical study).

Though the present reviewer holds no brief for this
kind of sport and its necessary implications, rather than
pass over in silence the question of bird—dog breaking, he
prefers to give recognition to a method more humane
than those which regard the use of the check—cord and
choke-collar as indispensable.

S. G. WEST.

 




NOTICES OF BOOKS 155

The Great Kinship. An Anthology of Humanitarian
Poetry. By Bertram Lloyd. Pp. xviii + 265.
(George Allen 85 Unwin. 85. 651.)

In his preface Mr. Bertram Lloyd gives us a brief
history of humanitarian poetry. Discussing writers
of ancient Greece and Rome, he dismisses them, with the
exception of Plutarch and Porphyry, as contributing
nothing to humanitarian thought; this section seems a
little sketchy and inadequate. Then he ﬁnds that the
Middle Ages, with their arrogant, anthropocentric ideas,
were with the exception of Chaucer’s Prioress in The
Canterbury Tales barren of examples. Even in the six—
teenth century, Moore and Montaigne are the only
humanitarians; Spencer and Shakespeare. show only very
occasional interest in animals. In the next age we have
Marvel, whose ideas were much in advance of his time. A
century later came COWper, Blake, Burns, Goldsmith,
and then Wordsworth, Coleridge, and above all Shelley,
the greatest humanitarian poet of all ages. From that
time there has never been a lack of humanitarian
poetry, and at the present time, as Darwin’s theory and
the idea of the kinship of the whole animal world be
come more widely accepted, animals occupy an ever-
increasing place in the thought of the poets.

For this anthology Mr. Lloyd has chosen only complete
poems; but in his excellent notes he often refers to
passages in the longer poems or in the prose works of
the poet. We should have liked more of these, for
references in the course of a poem on another theme
often give us more light on the poet’s thought on
animals than short poems directly inspired by some

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

U6 THE ANIMAL YEAR-BOOK

animal subject. It is, however, difficult for the an-
thologist to please everybody. The anthology includes
all the short animal poems from Marvel’s The N gimp/9,
complaining for the death of her fawn, down to Walter
de la Mare and Galsworthy and other poets of the
present day.

It is interesting, as one'turns the pages of such an
anthology, not only to notice the change in thought
between the earlier poets and those of to—day, but also
to see how far the poets are in advance of the thought of
their own age, and how they have anticipated the animal
movement. How few people of the present day can
really share the sentiment of Robert Burns’ " On seeing
a wounded hare limp by me, which a fellow had just
shot,” or " To a Mouse ”! Generally the poets have a
sympathy with wild animal life, to which very few
even of the professed humanitarians have yet attained.
Several foreign poems in English translation are included
in this anthology; among these are works by Schiller,
de Vigny, Victor Hugo, Friedrich Hebbel, whose
beautiful poem " To his Squirrel” is printed, the
Hungarian Alexander Petoﬁ, Carducci, and Francis
Jammes. Oriental poetry has of necessity been excluded.

C. M. KNIGHT.

Animals in Art. By Ann M. Berry. (Chatto 8C Windus,
I929. 73. 661.)

All animal-lovers who are artists or interested in art
will ﬁnd this thoughtful book delightful and suggestive.
It is really a history of art and the technique of art;
but it is written with'such clarity that it must appeal

 

 

 




 

 

 

NOTICES OF BOOKS 157

even to those who are not specialists or professional
artists. It is based on the animal form, because, in truth,
art owes so much to this, as the author says, “ Art in
Europe was born along the efforts of painters of
animals.” To approach the subject of art through
representations of animals is also a wise choice, because
they are less restricted by national or individual idio-
syncrasies with regard to beauty, ﬁtness, etc., than
human subjects. The author ﬁnds that Eastern art is
generally superior to Western art in depicting the forms
of animals, especially the felines. She attributes this
to their more intimate knowledge of animals, and
especially to their cosmic outlook on life and their
realisation that “ man is not necessarily the centre of
the universe.” This is probably true; but Eastern art
owes a great deal to a long tradition and conventional
treatment, which always leads to a perfection of
technique even at the expense of freshness.

The author begins the study of animals in art with
the cave-drawings found at Altamira and Dordogne,
and traces it through sculpture and painting in the East
and West down to the present day. She says, however,
nothing about the animal form in Scythian art, which
can be seen in the Rutherston collection at South Ken-
sington. It is perhaps outside thehistory of ordinary art,
but it is nevertheless useful for comparison. We read in
this book a good deal about the technique of painting
and sculpture, about realistic and decorative art, about
movement and rhythm, and, in addition, a goo-d deal
about animal form and animal psychology. The author
rightly insists that the artist who would represent an

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

”8 THE ANIMAL YEAR—BOOK

animal must appreciate not only the shape but also the
psychology of his subject, and this is far more important
than the right colours. The importance of the kinema
in widening our knowledge of animal form and our
appreciation of animal life is more than once em-
phasised. The boo-k is beautifully illustrated by half-
. tone plates. Its cost is exceedingly moderate. All who
are interested in the subject of animals in art will ﬁnd
it a delightful possession. C. M. KNIGHT.

Animals in Black—and-W/oz‘te. By Eric Fitch Daglish.
Text and woodcuts. 6 vols. (J. M. Dent 8C Sons,
Ltd., 1928—29. 25. 6d. net each vol.)

Mr. Daglish’s work has been reviewed by an extensive
press, whose favourable criticisms we fully endorse.
These six little volumes, each of which contains twenty
delightful woodcuts, proclaim the author as a keen
naturalist and no mean artist. The engravings are ex-
tremely ﬁne, and suggest the delicate ease of one to
whom the composition was as pleasurable as the subject
itself, while'the sensitive line and form are strongly
reminiscent of the silver points of Cedric Morris. We
are particularly pleased with the splendid lines of the
zebra, the delicate proﬁle of the rabbit bandicoot, and
the suggestiveness of the slim and graceful jackal; and
give honourable mention to the pleasing drawings of
ﬁshes and sea animals. Mr. Daglish is more successful
in his art when he relies, as here, upon the subject of
his drawing alone than when he introduces a nominal
background as in this illustrations which have been
appearing in Everyman.

 

 




 

NOTICES OF BOOKS 159

For the text also Mr. Daglish is responsible; while it is
full of deﬁnite information as to the habits and charac-
teristics of each animal, it is written in a simple, un—
affected style which renders it intelligible to a child.

We recommend these books to all animal-lovers:
" They avoid both the tethOO-k’s dust and the pretty
book’s sugar.”

The full series is as follows: Vol. I, The Larger Beasts.
Vol. II, The Smaller Beasts. Vol. III, The Larger Birds.
Vol. IV, The Smaller Birds. Vol. V, Reptiles. Vol. VI,
Fzshes and Sea Ammals. S. G. WEST.

Tar/ea the Otter. By Henry Williamson. v—viii +
255 pp. (G. P. Putnam’s Sons, I927. 33. 6a’.)
This book, which gained, for Mr. Williamson in I 928
the Hawthornden Prize for Imaginative Literature and
has been deservedly commended by Thomas Hardy and
John Galsworthy, is one of those rare works which is
pre—eminently successful in two ﬁelds: that of the bio-
graphical novelist, and that of. the natural historian. Its
masterly prose is a pure delight to those whose apprecia—
tion of descriptive narrative is such that it can perfectly
attune itself to the artistic sensibilities of the author; yet
Mr. Williamson has so completely absorbed the spirit of
Dartmoor and of Exmoor that he sinks his own person—
ality and focuses our interest on the two protagonists,
the Otter and his Fate; but never is the subject-matter
burdened with the dross of psycho—analysis. To the
animal-lover this book has all the joy of ﬁrst-hand
experience; and the author omits nothing of his eX-

perience of natural phenomena.

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

I60 THE ANIMAL YEAR-BOOK

No introduction is really needed, but the Hon. Sir
John Fortescue contributes ’a generous preface to a
“ far sounder and deeper biography.” Tarha the Otter:
his joyful Water—Life and Death in the Country of the
Two Rivers, should ﬁnd a place in every home and

library.
S. G. WEST.

The Story of oz Red-Deer. By the Hon. J. W. Fortescue.
vii—X + 212 pp. (Macmillan 85 Co. Ltd., 1897.
3s. 6d.)

“ I bethought me that there was no book that I could
more proﬁtably write for you than the life of one of
our own red-deer, which, as they be of the most beauti-
ful of all creatures to the eye, so be also the most worthy
of study by the mind for their subtlety, their nobility,
and their wisdom.”

This is the expressed intention of the author, in which
he admirably succeeds. As a biographical novel its
structure is slender, and it conforms strictly to type.
Singularly free from contaminating vestiges of " propa-
ganda,” it arrests the attention by its very air of detach-
ment, while a true sense of proportion is maintained by
the intimacy enjoyed by the central ﬁgure with his
fellow-creatures.

That the work has bee-n reprinted no less than twenty
times since its ﬁrst edition in 1897 is sufﬁcient recom-
mendation. It is the work of a gentleman gently treat-
ing a gentle subject.

S. G. WEST.

 

 




 

 

 

 

NOTICES OF BOOKS 161

Moorland Terror. By Hugh Broadbridge. 3 18 pp.
(Thornton Butterworth Ltd., 1930. 7s. 6d. net.)
This novel, admittedly a " thriller,” is the work of one
who is primarily a lover of nature, and only secondarily
a novelist. The plot hinges on the destruction of a bird-
sanctuary in Cornwall. “ Deep in the woods below the
Penwith moors Professor Kingsbury has realised his
dream of a unique bird—sanctuary. Then comes a neigh-
bour, a gun ﬁend, whose depredations shatter the peace
of the woods. Violence takes sway, and the Professor, his
beautiful ward June, a young artist named Guy Seaton,
the local constable, and ﬁnally the police at large, are
drawn into the vortex. Matters take a tragic turn. The
Kingsburys’ neighbour takes to the heather, a maniac,
and terrorises the district. From this point the story
works up to a great climax, staged on a grim headland
precipice.”

It is regrettable that Mr. Broadbridge has allowed him-
self, in the working out of his story, rather to pander
to the public taste for melodrama than to concentrate
his energy in defence of the natural forms of existence
which he knows best, and about which he feels most
strongly. Nevertheless, whatever may be our opinion of
the ethical judgment of Mr. Broadbridge as a novelist,
we must be in complete sympathy with him in his indig-
nation against the vandal who defiles and despoils the
bird—sanctuary.

To the many lovers of the Delectable Duchy, to those
who know and are interested in birds, and to those who
like a fast-moving “ terror ” novel, this story has a

decided appeal. 3, G, WEST,

II

we

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

162 THE ANIMAL YEAR—B’OOK

My Friend Toto. By Cherry Kearton. The Library of
Animal Friends. Vol. I. 126 pp. (Arrowsmith,
I 925. 53.)

The full content of this book is expressed in its sub-
title: “ The Adventures of a Chimpanzee and the Story
of His Journey from the Congo to London.” There is a
short preface by Sir Gilbert Parker, dedicated to Toto,
and the narrative is admirably illustrated with photo-
graphs, taken by the author.

Mr. Kearton has an intimate style of writing, which
endears itself particularly to the younger generation, to
whom this book will have its greatest appeal. His life
in natural surroundings in continuous contact with ani-
mals has rendered him free from any suspicion of
" writing down ” to his subject. As a traveller and ex-
plorer he tells his story; as one of the great companions
he tells his story unaffectedly. Hence it is that we can
all read of Toto the chimpanzee, the genius among apes,
who, taken as a pet, quickly ceased to be a pet and
became a friend, proving by his intelligence and reason-
ing power the kinship between ape and man. It is
interesting to follow the young chimpanzee in his en-
counters with the mystifying habits of civilisation, in
the conventions of the toilet, in pipe-smoking, and to
observe that he differs from the homo sapiens, not in
the power of reasoning, but in the breadth of experi-
ence.

We could wish that the attitude of many human beings
in relation to animals evinced but a modicum of the
intelligence and sympathy displayed by Toto in his
relations with man. S. G. WEST.

 




 

NOTICES OF BOOKS 163

My Dog Simba. By Cherry Kearton.. The Library of
Animal Friends. Vol. II. 128 pp. (Arrowsmith,
I 926. 55.)

In My Dog Simba, Mr. Kearton has given us another
companionable book, worthy to be placed on our shelves
next to My Friend Toto. He tells the true tale of a
black—and-white fox-terrier to whom he gave the not
very heroic name of Pip; but despite her commonplace
name, Pip proved herself very far from being an ordin—
ary dog. Instead of passing her existence in the back-
garden kennel of a suburban villa, she travelled twice
to Central Africa; instead of encountering unsym-
pathetic motor—omnibuses, she acquitted herself
valiantly against the rhinoceros; instead of venting her
spleen on neighbouring kittens, she fought the lion him-
self and gained the honourable title of SIMBA. At the
Battersea Home for Lost Dogs, she cost seven—and—six-
pence; but the Chieftain of the Masai would have bought
her for ﬁfty pounds. How Simba took part in the Great
War, and learned to ﬂy, the reader must discover for
himself in this most fascinating little book, which, as
usual, is well illustrated with Mr. Kearton’s excellent
photographs.

Messrs. Arrowsmith are to be congratulated on the
pleasing idea of " The Library of Animal Friends,”
which, in addition to My Friend Toto and My Dog
Simba, includes My H ap py Family, by Cherry Kearton;
Moses, My Offer, by Frances Pitt; My Happy Claim-
panzee, by Cherry Kearton; My Animal Friendships,
by Cherry Kearton; Tom, My Peacock, by Frances Pitt.

3. G. WEST.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

164 THE ANIMAL YEAR-BOOK

Skew/bald, the N ew Forest Pony. By A. W. Seaby. 158
pp. (Black, 1929. 3s. 6d.)

Exmoor Loss, and other Pony Stories. By A. W. Seaby.
152 pp. (Black, 1928. 5s.)

In these two books, Professor Seaby has given us an
intimate picture of pony life in story form. Skewbald
is a ﬁne chestnut—and-white New Forest stallion, and is
the centre of a story that vividly portrays not only the
wanderings and hardships of these ponies, but also the
kind of existence that is led daily by all kinds of forest
folk—gipsies, agisters, birds, animals, and even insects.
The Exmoor Lass volume has six short stories, on similar
lines to Skewbald, except that its ponies are now drawn
from Dartmoor, Exmoor, Shetland, and Wales, and we
see them more in relation and friendship with man. The
last story, “ The White Pony of Kestor,” in a prehistoric
setting, is fanciful but very delightful. Prof. Seaby has
marvellous insight and sympathy with ponies, and while
these books are intended for younger people, they make
enjoyable reading for nature-lovers of all ages. The
interest of both volumes is enhanced by excellent

sketches by the author.
W. G. BOYD.

T/oe Life-Story of a Lion. By Agnes Herbert. 228 pp.
(Black, 1929. 23. 6d.)

This is one of what is now quite a large series, pub-
lished by Messrs. Black, Ltd., of life-stories of animals,
from the animals’ point of view. Told by one who
knows both lions and children, this story is both inter-
esting and instructive, to adults as well as children, and

 

 




 

 

NOTICES OF BOOKS 165

gains immensely by not being in autobiographical form.
There is a coloured frontispiece.

W. G. BOYD.

T/oe Ruminations 0f Rnﬁtes. By G. Winifred Taylor.
132 pp. (Blackwell, 1922. 25. 661.)

This is the life-story of an over—sensible and sensitive
dog, with all his. loves and jealousies, and Opinions on
most abstract matters. The story is spoiled by being in
autobiographical form—some of the sentiments eX-
pressed, even though they come from a most intel-
lectual dog, and are most commonplace, appear badly
out of place and insincere.

W. G. BOYD.

Dictionary of Poultry. By D. F. Suttie. 280 pp. (Blackie,
I929. 73. 6d.).

This book is occupied entirely by the practical side of
its subject and serves a good purpose by showing how to
treat poultry in accordance with the most scien-
tiﬁc methods. Some points receive scant treatment, as is
inevitable in a book of this size, yet the work on the
whole is fairly comprehensive, and there are some good

plates.
W. G. BOYD.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

INDEX TO NOTICES OF BOOKS

BATTEN, H. MORTIMER: Habits and Characters of British
Wild Animals. ~

BELL, ERNEST: Fair Treatment for Animals

BERRY, ANN M.: Animals In Art

BORDERIEUX, CARITA: Almost Human, a study of thinking
animals . .

BROADBRIDGE, HUGH: Moorland Terror.

CAMERON, T. W. M.: Diseases of Animals in Relation to
Man . . . . . .

CHAPMAN, F. M. : My Tropical Air Castle .

DAGLISH, ERIC FITCH : Animals in Black—and-White .

DOWSETT, J. MOREWOOD: The Spanish Bull—Ring

DOWSETT, J. MOREWOOD: The Spanish Bull-Fight

EIPPER, PAUL : Animals Looking at You . . .

FAIRHOLME, E. G., and WELLESLEY PAIN: A Century of
Work for Animals : a history of the R.S.P.C.A. .

FARREN, LADY : Frisky Tales . . . .

FORTESCUE, the Hon. J. W. : The Story of a Red—Deer

GUEST, GEORGE : Animal Life Lessons . .

DE HAAN, J. A. BIERENS : Animal Psychology .

HAWKINS, T. S. : The Soul of an Animal .

HERBERT, AGNES: The Life— —Story of a Lion

HIRST, J. CROWTHER: Is Nature Cruel? .

HOBDAY, F. T. C.: Anxsthetics and Narcosis of Animals
and Birds . . .

HOGARTH, A. MOORE: The Rat: A World Menace .

NOVELL, MARK . Rats and HOW to Destroy Them

HUDSON, W. H. : A Hind in Richmond Park

KEARTON, CHERRY : In the Land of the Lion

KEARTON, CHERRY : My Friend Toto

KEARTON, CHERRY : My Dog Simba

KIPLING, J. LOCKWOOD : Beast and Man in India

LLOYD, BERTRAM : The Great Kinship

166

PAGE

129

108
156

124
I61

130
I57
158
I47
I49
138

111
136
I60
I44
115
120
I64
126

I44
153
151
122
130
I62
163
114
155




 

 

NOTICES OF BOOKS

LYTLE, HORACE: Breaking a Bird Dog .

MITCHELL, P. CHALMERS: The Childhood of Animals

MOORE, J. HOWARD: The New Ethics

MORLEY, F. V., and J. S. HODGSON: Whaling North and
South

PITT, FRANCES : Wild Creatures of Garden and Hedgerow

SALT, HENRY 8.: Animals’ Rights considered in relation to
Social Progress .

SEABY, A. W.: Exmoor Lass, and other Pony Stories

SEABY, A. W.: Skewbald, the New Forest Pony

SELOUS, EDMUND : Realities of Bird Life .

SUTTIE, D. F. : A Dictionary of Poultry .

TAYLOR, G. WINIFRED : The Rumination of Ruffles .

THOMSON, J. ARTHUR : The System of Animate Nature

THOMSON, J. ARTHUR. The Minds of Animals .

THOMSON, J. ARTHUR: The Gospel of Evolution

THOMSON, J. ARTHUR: The Study of Animal Life

TREGARTHEN, J. C.: Wild Life at the Land’s End

VARIOUS WRITERS: Save Australia . . .

VETERINARY DEPARTMENT OF WAR OFFICE: Animal Man-
agement

WALTER, HERBERT EUGENE, and ALICE HALL: Wild Birds 1n
City Parks .

WILLIAMSON, HENRY: T arka the Otter

1167

PAGE
I54
132
110

I46
143

109
164
164
155
165
165
125
118-.
128%

.127”
154:.

112.;

149

I43
159

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

APPENDIX

THE UNIVERSITY OF LONDON ANIMAL WELFARE
SOCIETY
Addrerr: c/o THE UNIVERSITY OF LONDON UNION, 68 TORRING-
TON SQUARE, \V.C.I.

~ PRESIDENT
PrincipalF. T. G. HOBDAY, C. M. G. F. R. C. V. S. ,.F R. S. E. ,Principal
of the Royal Veterinary College; Editor of Tbe Vetermar}
journal ; Hon. Veterinary Surgeon to H.M. the King.

VICE- PRESIDENTS

Prof. R. W. CHAMBERS, M. A., D. Lit. ,Quain Professor of English
Language and Literature, University College.

EDWIN DELLER, LL.D., Principal, The University of London.

The Rev. Canon J. A. DOUGLAS, B.A., B.D., Senator.

H. C. DRIVER, M.R.C.V.S.

HENRY GRAY, M.R.C.V.S.

Prof. Dame HELEN GWYNNE—VAUGHAN, G.B.E., D.Sc., LL.D.,
F.L.S., Professor Of Botany, Birkbeck College.

W. R. HALLIDAY, M.A., B.Litt., LL.D., Principal, King’s College ;

' Senator.

Prof. JULIAN S. HUXLEY, M.A., King’s College.

Prof. H. R. KENWOOD, CM..,G M..,B F....,RSE D...,PH F...,CS
Emeritus Professor of Hygiene and Public Health, University
College.

C. W. KIMMINS, D.Sc., M.A., Senator.

Sir E. GRAHAM—LITTLE, M.D., M.P., Senator ; Member of Parlia-
ment for the University of London.

Lady T. MARY LOCKYER.

Prof. The Rev. Canon W. R. MATTHEWS, D.D., M.A., Dean Of the
Faculty of Theology and Professor of Philosophy, King’s
College.

Prof. J. MCCUNN, M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P., M.R.C.V.S., Royal
Veterinary College.

168

 




 

PROSPECTUS OF U.L.A.W.S. I69

Prof. D. L. MACKINNON, D.Sc., Professor of Zoology, King’s
College.

ALLEN MAWER, M.A., Litt.D., F.B.A., Provost, University College;
Senator.

Prof. Sir ARTHUR MAYO-ROBSON, K.B.E., C.B., C.V.O., D.Sc.,
F.R.C.S.

Prof. A. O. RANKINE, O.B.E., D.Sc., Professor of Physics, Royal
College of Science.

GEORGE SENTER, D.Sc., Ph.D., Principal, Birkbeck College;
Senator.

Miss ETHEL STRUDWICK, M.A., High Mistress, St. Paul’s Girls’
School; Senator.

Major R. WALL, M.R.C.V.S.

Prof. ERNEST WILSON, M.Inst.C.E., M.I.E.E., late William Siemens
Professor of Electrical Engineering, King’s College.

R. M. WILSON, B.Sc., Agric. (Edin.), Principal, The South—Eastern
Agricultural College, Wye.

Prof. W. WILSON, D.Sc., Ph.D., F.R.S., Professor of Physics,
Bedford College.

Prof. G. H. WOOLDRIDGE, F.R.C.V.S., M.R.I.A., Professor of
Veterinary Medicine and Hygiene, Royal Veterinary College.

HON. TREASURER
PAUL HAAS, D.Sc., Ph.D., University College; II Westbourne
Park Road, W.2.

JOINT HON. SECRETARIES
Capt. C. W. HUME, M.C., B.Sc., Birkbeck College; Editor to
the Physical Society ; I4 The Hawthorns, Finchley, N.3.
Miss C. M. KNIGHT, D.Lit., Reader in Classics, King’s
College ; 6 Forres Gardens, N.W.II.

HON. ASSISTANT SECRETARY
J. R. HARMAN, B.Sc.

TRAPPING EXPERT
A. H. B. KIRKMAN, F.R.C.S.E., L.R.C.P., eX Guy’s Hospital.

, COUNCIL
THE OFFICERS OF THE SOCIETY.
Miss B. BEVAN—EVANS, Bedford College.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

I70 APPENDIX

KENNETH BIRD, B.Sc., Assoc.M.Inst.C.E. (“ Fougasse ”), ex King’s
College.

The Rev. S. G. BRADE—BIRKS, D.Sc., Lecturer in Zoology and
Geology, South-Eastern Agricultural College, Wye.

Rabbi SAMUEL DAICHES, M.A., Ph.D., Lecturer in Bible and
Talmudics, The Jews’ College.

Miss E. L. B. FORSTER, University of London Catholic Society.

Miss ADA S. HALLETT, Birkbeck College.

F. E. HODGSON, Barrister-at—Law, ex London School of Economics.

Miss NINA HOSALI, M.Sc., eX University College.

Miss C. E. HURREN, Bedford College.

F. W. JANE, B.Sc., University College.

Miss E. M. KNIGHT, Royal Holloway College.

J. A. LANGLEY, Royal Veterinary College.

DONALD A. MACALISTER, A.R.S.M.

Brigadier—General MAGNUS MOWAT, C.B.E., F.K.C., M.Inst.C.E.,
M.I.Mech.E., Member of the Council of King’s College.

M. E. B. NEAL, South—Eastern Agricultural College, Wye.

C. M. PEATT, Royal Veterinary College. ‘

Miss D. WESLEY, Westﬁeld College.

Miss M. M. WHITE, M.B., B.S., Royal Free Hospital.

W. J WOODMAN, King’s College.

Miss M. A. ZANGWILL, Westﬁeld College.

AIMS AND FUNCTION OF THE SOCIETY

It is generally agreed that a university ought not to restrict its
interest to matters which fall within examination syllabuses and
prescribed lines of research. The universities, as centres of pro-
gressive thought, could appropriately lead public opinion to a
proper understanding of the right relationship between man and
the lower animals. In this aspect civilisation is still backward
and is marred by many inconsiderate and some barbarous practices
which can be eliminated only by the progressive broadening of
the sympathies and interests of mankind.

There are valid reasons why members of the universities should
concern themselves with man’s duty to animals. It is important
that the relevant facts should be brought before students who in
later life will inﬂuence public opinion directly as teachers, ministers

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

PROSPECTUS OF U.L.A.W.S. 171

of religion, journalists, or statesmen ; these future leaders of public
opinion have, in a university society, opportunities of associating
with biologists and veterinary surgeons ; the “ animal movement ”
needs the help of minds trained in the discipline of accurate think-
ing, for all good causes are liable to be prejudiced by uncritical
zeal ; and ﬁnally, the contemptuous attitude towards animals
which underlies most cruelty needs to be replaced by that broader-
minded view of their nature which is deducible from biological
sc1ence.

The Society emphasises particularly the importance of co—opera—
tion between the animal protection societies and the veterinary
and kindred professions.

THE SURVIVAL OF CRUELTY

The majority of educated persons are opposed in theory to all
forms of cruelty, but in practice various abuses still survive even
in Great Britain, ranging from the merely inconsiderate to the
barbarous treatment of animals. For instance, excessive cruelty
is involved in the current methods of trapping and poisoning wild
animals. These usually involve such prolonged and acute suffer-
ing that they certainly would not be tolerated if they took place
within sight and hearing of the public streets ; and the number of
animals trapped in Great Britain annually, together with those
whose skins are imported, is estimated to be of the order of one
hundred millions.

POLICY AS REGARDS ANIMAL EXPERIMENTS
The Society is precluded by its constitution from engaging on
either side in controversies relating to scientiﬁc experiments on
animals.

PROCEEDINGS
Meetings have been held in conjunction with colleges and hostels
of the University of London, with the University of London
Union, the National Union of Students, the Association of Special
Libraries and Information Bureaux, and the Conference of Educa-
tional Associations. A meeting arranged by the Scottish S.P.C.A.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

172 APPENDIX

and the Royal (Dick) Veterinary College was held recently in the
University of Edinburgh.

The Society possesses a copy of a ﬁlm of trapped animals taken
by the late Commander Edward Breck, M.A., Ph.D., and edited
by Mr. P. W. Southern, of the Royal Veterinary College Film
Library. This ﬁlm affords a valuable means of illustrating and
impressing on the imagination the suffering known to be inﬂicted

by trapping as usually practised.

It has published a report of the meeting held at King’s College
under the title of “ Man’s Duty to Animals ”: this comprises
addresses by Rabbi Dr. Samuel Daiches, the Rev. B. G. Bourchier,
the Rev. Father Martindale, S.J., Lieutenant—Commissioner
I. Unsworth (Salvation Army), and Canon W. R. Matthews.
Reports of the discussions on “ Animal Welfare, its Dependence on
Accurate Information,” forming part of the Oxford Congress,
1930, of the Association of Special Libraries and Information
Bureaux, and on “ Humane Education in Schools,” forming part
of the Conference of Educational Associations, 1931, are in the

press.

It has been fortunate also in obtaining the services, as speakers,
of such well-known authorities as Mr. John Galsworthy, Sir
William Beach Thomas, Miss Radclyffe Hall, Prof. Sir J. Arthur
Thomson, Mr. H. Mortimer Batten, Mr. J. H. Driberg, Mr. H. de
Vere Stacpoole, Lieutenant—Colonel T. C. Russell Moore, Prof.
R. G. Linton, Brigadier—General J. Charteris, Prof. Sir Gilbert
Murray, Dr. G. D. Gray, Mrs. Susan Isaacs, Mr. O. H. Latter,
Miss S. M. Wortman, Major Van der Byl, Mr. Morewood
Dowsett, Lord Noel Buxton, and ofﬁcers of the R.S.P.C.A. and
other humane societies, in addition to its own ofﬁcers and members.

It has issued a questionnaire signed by Professors Huxley and
Mackinnon and addressed to field clubs and natural history societies
with the object of obtaining information relating to otters and
badgers, as examples of wild animals which are specially subject
to persecution. Information on this subject from any thoroughly
authentic source would be welcomed, and should be sent to
Miss Ada Hallett, Birkbeck College, E.C.4.

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

PROSPECTUS OF U.L.A.W.S. 173

In collaboration with the R.S.P.C.A. it has undertaken an investi-
gation into the possibility of keeping down rabbits by humane
methods. This investigation is being conducted with striking success
by Dr. A. H. B. Kirkman.

A card index of information on trapping and kindred subjects is
being formed by Mr. J. R. Harman.

Branches of the Society have been formed at'Bedford College,
King’s College, Royal Holloway College, Westﬁeld College, and
Wye Agricultural College. The Students’ Union of the Royal
Veterinary College and the Birkbeck College Animal Welfare
Society are affiliated as branches.

The Society is affiliated to the Association of Special Libraries
and Information BureauX, the Conference of Educational Associa-
tions, and the University of London Union.

FINANCE
The minimum subscription for members is 15. per annum, but,
as this is insufﬁcient to meet expenses, donations on a more
generous scale are invited not only from members of the Society
but from all sympathisers. The minimum subscription for honorary
members is IOJ‘.

MEMBERSHIP

Full membership is restricted to present and past students of the
University of London, senators, ofﬁcers, and teaching and ad—
ministrative staffs of that University, and veterinary surgeons
practising in London. Professors, principals, senators, and veteri—
nary surgeons are eligible as Vice-Presidents.

Sympathisers who are not members of the University are eligible
as honorary members.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 




 




