MOLLIE WHITE-Foor’s VACATION.

BY ANNA HARRIS SMITH.

When Mrs. Perkins gave Clara Bourne her prettiest kitten, the gray one that had
four white feet, she thought Clara loved kittens. She did not know that it was her
own amusement Clara loved, but that she wanted a kitten just as she wanted a doll
to play with.

Clara carried the kitten home ; and fortunately for the kitten, the cook was
kind, and gave it every morning a saucer of milk, with bread crumbs or oatmeal,
and also looked after it at dinner time, so that Mollie White-foot had, on the Whole,
a very comfortable time, except when Clara played with her too roughly.

When summer came, Clara’s mother and father decided to close the house, and
go away to board for two months at the mountains. Clara was so delighted that she
hardly gave a. thought to Mollie until the day before they were to start. Then she

asked her mother if she were going to take Mollie with them. Mrs. Bourne told her

that it would be impossible, but that she need not worry, as Mollie could very well
take care of herself for two months; and Clara, busy with getting her little trunk
packed and putting in it her favorite toys and books, gave no further thought to the
matter.

The Bournes started off in excellent spirits one pleasant morning ; and as they
turned the key in the door, Mollie came and looked at them, and cried as if she
understood that they were going away, and as if she were begging them not to
leave her alone. This made Clara, and even Mrs. Bourne (who did not like cats),
feel a little uncomfortable; but they soon forgot all about Mollie in the excitement
of the journey. . “H7535“ ‘T WW?"

(
'."=¢:{‘.L,l..;‘.

 

 

. .'-.. v‘ a '- "a
'3; 4, .- : ‘f 39:“):

This story is founded on fact.
' I I -' tip , ? :‘m’f r‘r ﬂ:
(1) l {3 t -. 2 g U

h
l

DWEWN m? immmg;

l
‘vl

”war:
wry.

I

.,_
x-\
V ‘

 

 

 




 

They had left enough scraps of bread and meat under the doorstep in the back.
yard to . last Mollie for a few days ; but she missed her milk, and when night came,
mewed sadly, for she began already to feel very lonesome.

In a day or two there was a heavy rain ; and Mollie had to crawl under the door—
step as far as possible, and stay there until the storm was over,— an experience
which she did not ﬁnd at all pleasurable. She had never been a cat given to neigh-
borhood wanderings ; and, when her little store of food had given out, and no-
human being came near her, and, in spite of her most beseeching mews at the side
door, the house remained closed to her, the creature began to feel very wretched
indeed. She got so hungry that she could not sleep at night; and one night her
cries reached the ears of a sick woman in a house near by, and kept her from get-
ting the sleep she needed until her husband went out and threw stones and sticks
in the direction in which the cries came, and then poor Mollie, frightened nearly
into a ﬁt, crept under the doorstep again, and lay in half-dazed silence. .

That night Mrs. Bourne and Clara slept soundly in their comfortable room at the
hotel among the mountains, and no thought of Mollie came to trouble their placid
repose. The days which ﬂew by so rapidly for Clara and her mother dragged slowly
to Mollie. Now and then she managed to catch a bird, and once she made a scanty
meal upon a very small mouse that ventured across her pathway; but she was get-
ting too weak do very much hunting, for which, indeed, she was sadly unﬁtted
owing to the manner of her bringing up. She ventured into the neighbors’ yards in
her desperation ; but she found that the swill—buckets were all kept tightly closed,
and, if she was seen, she was driven off with a stone or a broomstick. Many of the
houses round about were shut up like her own home ; and the families who were
left were so indignant to think that the more fortunate ones who could get away
should leave their cats behind for the stay-at—homes to take care of that they would
not often feed a stray cat, or even tolerate its presence. Mollie saw two little pet.
kittens bereft of attention crawl away and hide and die ; and she felt as if that must.
soon be her fate, too.

One day, when Mollie was prowling around in search of a bit of food, a boy threw
a stone at her. Being weak with hunger, she did not jump aside quickly enough to
avoid the missile. In the panic caused by pain and fright, she ran wildly, she did
not know where, and by chance took refuge in a garden belonging to a house a few
streets from where the Bournes lived. There was a little hole in the fence which
she spied out as she ran ; and, being thin, she crawled through, and fell exhausted
under a low—growing shrub.

The day and night went by, and another day and night ; and Mollie still lay under
the shrub, aching from the bruise she had received, and too weak to crawl about
any longer in search of food and drink. Her mouth was parched with thirst ; she
slept and woke with feverish starts. How gladly she would have welcomed a taste»
of cool water! The third day was slowly drawing to an end when Mollie heard foot-
steps approaching her. She had met with so much unkindness that she wanted to
get up and run away, but she was too feeble to do so. The footsteps paused, and a.
hand pushed aside the branches that partly concealed her ; and, as Mollie raised her
eyes and tried to shrink back under the bush, she saw a boy looking down at her.
This sight alarmed her very much; for boys, as a rule, had never been kind to her.
All she could do, however, was to lie still, and wait for the expected blow. Instead
of the blow she felt a hand touching her head softly, and heard a gentle voice say,
“Poor pussy ! ” That was all ; and, just as Mollie was trying to purr a faint.
response, the steps retreated much more rapidly than they had come, and Mollie,
thinking herself forsaken, closed her eyes again in a sigh of disappointment.

In a few minutes she heard once more the sound of footsteps, and this time two
voices.

“ Here, mamma, right here under this bush,” said one voice.

“ Oh, the poor thing ! ’7 said another.

“ Is she dead, mamma ? ”

“ No; she is opening her eyes,” was the reply. “ Put the saucer of milk down
close to her head.”

('2)




Help had come to Mollie at last, but it seemed as if it were too late. Mollie could
not take the milk. “ Bring a little water, Henry,” the kind voice said; and in a few
minutes Mollie saw a dish of water placed almost under her nose, so close that she
could by raising her head lap a little. She was so grateful that she tried to purr,
and, in fact, succeeded in making a faint sound.

“ Leave the milk, Henry, and the water,” said the voice. “ See that faded rib-
bon around her neck ! The poor thing has been left to starve by some family gone
away for the summer, and I think she has been hurt in some way. Do you see how
wicked it is for people to be so thoughtless ? ”

From this time on better days came to Mollie. Slowly her strength came back
under the ministrations of the kind little boy and his mother; and by and by 'she
grew sleek and fat, and seemed quite like her old self.

Mrs. Lane had a few rules she always followed in her care of cats, and they were
very successful.

First, she realized that cats, like people, need a mixed diet, and she gave Mollie
not only a little meat every day, but some kind of vegetable. Some cats, she had
found, were fond of potato; some of asparagus; some would eat cabbage, and almost
every cat liked corn and beans.

She was always particular to keep a dish of fresh water where the cat could get
at it, for cats often are allowed, through thoughtlessness, to suffer with thirst.
They need fresh water, as well as milk —— just as we do. Milk cannot take the place
of water. With their milk she often mixed rice, or oatmeal. She also carefully
picked the bones out of ﬁsh, and mixed it with potato, or rice, for a change of food.
Cats are sometimes seriously hurt by swallowing ﬁsh—bones.

She fed her cats regularly, and they knew just when to expect their food,.so
were not teasing around the house. She found that they were much better hunters
after rats and mice if they were kept in good condition. It is only those who are -
very ignorant of the cat who imagine she must be kept half-starved to be a hunter.
A well-cared for cat is always the brightest and smartest cat.

She never turned her cats out of doors at night, but kept a box of clean, dry earth,
where they could get at it, and she had no trouble with them. A little training will
make any cat neat, for cats are naturally neat, and it is only neglect that renders
them otherwise.

She never tied a ribbon or placed a collar around a cat’s neck, for there is always
danger of their gettlng caught in some bush or fence, and getting serious injury.
They may be starved to death, or strangled by means of a collar.

It is so hard to ﬁnd good homes for kittens that Mrs. Lane saved but one out of
a litter of kittens, the others she drowned in a pail of luke-warm water as soon as
they were born. When the water is warm it sinks the kittens at once, because it
wets the fur quickly. If they are tied up in an apron they can be held down for a
moment with a broom. Or another pail made heavy with being half-ﬁlled with
water, can be placed over the kittens as soon as they are put in the ﬁrst pail, to pre-
vent them from rising. They should be left some time in the water.

Mrs. Lane’s experience had taught her that cats have much more feeling and
intelligence than many people give them credit for, and they thoroughly appreciate
good treatment, as well as suffer very much from neglect. They learn to know the
tone of the voice, the glance of the eye of those with whom they live, and respond
to a look and a word. They are very affectionate, and love those who are kind to
them. They have great motherly affection, and it is cruel to take away all their
kittens. One should be saved, and for one it is almost always possible to ﬁnd a
good home.

With such a thoughtful and considerate mistress it is no wonder that Mollie grew
fat and handsome, and had no desire to leave her happy home for anything more
than an occasional outing, or promenade. .

When the early days of September arrived, instinct drew her back to her former
home; and there a surprise was in store for her. The house was open again; and,
as she walked leisurely toward the open door, Clara darted out, and seized her with
a cry of delight.

(3)

 




“ O mamma, mammal just look here! Mollie has come back, and see how hand-
some she has grown I ”

“Well, didn’t I tell you.” said Clara’s mother, casting an approving glance at
Mollie, “ that cats are quite able to take care of themselves when they are obliged to
do so ? ”

“But, mamma,” Clara said, eyeing the large, beautiful cat critically, “don’t you
think it strange she should have grown so sleek and fat ? It seems as if someone
had been taking good care of her. Just see 110w glossy her fur is.”

Mrs. Bourne would not stop to think about Mollie’s good looks, and it was not
until she found the cat did not stay with them that she began to grow interested.
“Someone has coaxed her away,” she said, when Clara bemoaned the loss of her
pet. “ I think it is pretty mean business! We must enquire about the neighbor-
hoodﬂ’

All their enquiries, however, came to nothing Mollie appeared and disappeared.
It had always been Mrs. Bourne’s habit to shut her out at night, but when she made
her next friendly call, a few days later, Mrs. Bourne allowed Clara to conﬁne her in
the cellar for two days. After this conﬁnement, Mollie ran away, and was seen no
more until Clara discovered her one day, sitting in the window of a pretty home with
a garden about it, some streets away from her neighborhood.

Clara at once ran home and told her mother, and a few moments later, Mrs.
Bourne, in quite an angry frame of mind, was on her way with Clara to reclaim the
wanderer.

They were greeted very pleasantly at the door by Mrs. Lane, the lady of the
house, and invited to enter. When Mrs. Bourne told her errand, and accused Mrs.
Lane of coaxing the cat away from its home, Henry Lane was standing by his
mother, and his brown eyes ﬂashed ominously. “May I speak, mamma ?” he said.

Mrs. Lane gave him permission, and Henry began his story. When he described
in what condition the poor forsaken cat was, on the day he found her, almost dead,
under the bushes in the garden, Clara cried, and even Mrs. Bourne looked ashamed.
He told how they had built up her strength, and got her into that ﬁne and sleek con—
dition by careful attention.

Mrs. Lane begged Mrs. Bourne to consider that a cat could not take care of her-
self any better than a child, “ not as well, indeed, for a child can ask for food and
drink, and someone will listen, but a poor cat is driven from house to house, hungry
and thirsty, and it may be days, before anyone will'take pity on her forlorn condi—
tion, and sometimes, alas, not at all.” She said, “ I cannot understand how people
can be so cruel as to leave their pets to suffer when they are going away to enjoy
themselves.” If they cannot take them or ﬁnd a good home they ought to have
them humanely disposed of—usually any humane society will send an agent to
do this or give directions for the best method of chloroforming an animal.

She told, with tears in her eyes, how Henry, climbing over a fence into the back
yard of a house that had been shut up all summer, attracted by a faint mew, had

found under the back doorsteps a mother cat, dead of starvation, and ﬁve little kit-
tens, three of them dead. The [other two had a little life left in them, and those he
had brought home to her, and she had mercifully ended their sufferings.

“ Now,” Mrs. Lane said, “ you have heard all the story, and you may take Mollie
if you think best, or I will get you a very pretty kitten I know about, if you will
promise never to leave her to ‘ take care of herself,’ and will adopt my method of
treatment.”

Mrs. Bourne was not a hard—hearted woman, only thoughtless and selfish, but Mrs.
Lane had convinced her of her wrong-doing, and she very readily promised to treat
the new pet differently.

Mrs. Bourne and Clara thanked Mrs. Lane for her kind advice, and the promise of
a kitten, and went their way, sadder and wiser for hearing the true story of Mollie’s
vacation— Reprinted with additions from the CHRISTIAN l—hcersrnn. ,

 

This leaﬂet can be obtained from the Humane Education Committee, No. (31 \Vestminster Street,
Room 20, (Elevator 27 Exchange Street,) Providence, R. 1. Price 10 cents for 20 copies or 40 cents
per hundred, postage paid.

At same address may be obtained other leaﬂets, books, etc., on the care and kind treatment of
animals, suitable for use in schools and Bands of Mercy; also Sexes or H Arrv LI FE —A. collection
of songs for schools, homes and Bands of Mercy.

Send postage stampfm' price list.

A sample set of leaﬂets will he sent on receipt of 25 cents.

 




