_ Mean and Barbarous Insurance

against the Possibility of Damage

Copyright

Firing at Nesting Birds is a National disgrace
punishable in man—trap days

compiled by
MRS. T. S. HAWKINS

 




 

.“ A mingle grain of solid fact
is worth ten tons of theory.”

RUSKIN

 

 

V... ~4,_.’4

 




 

 

 

A MEAN AND BARBAROUS INSURANCE AGAINST
THE POSSIBILITY OF DAMAGE

Facts Are of More Value than Snppositions

. I hope therefore in the following pages to show how easy it
was for the late Minister of Agriculture to misjudge the value of '
“an excessive assembly of Rooks” in a ﬁeld. Conclusions based
upon 'suppositions, rather than on facts must be subject to a
different interpretation from the one the Minister so hastily and
so dogmatically aSsumed to be the only possible one. The economic
value of Rooks is a complex question which demands vast experi—
ence, but it is left to the caprice, prejudice, ignorance, or indiffer-
ence, of a huge army of “pest” ofﬁcers and bureaucrats, with little,
‘ or no knowledge, of economic ornithology to decide their value
and their number, so there is a general mass—murder of nesting
Rooks which is unjustiﬁable, and fundamentally alien to our
British ideas of fair play and common humanity. The caddish
attack on these poor birds and their helpless offspring does far
more harm than good when insects are multiplying with such start—
ling rapidity in May and would be given to the baby Rooks. H. J
' Massingham, 'a noted authority, was right when he said in The
. Field (April 24, 1943), “The thing to notice'about these men,
going about fulﬁlling the orders of bureaucratic ignorance, in-
competence, and stupidity, is what lies behind it all.” There is ~
no doubt that “pest” officers appear to be appointed for almost
any reason other than knowledge.” Orders are given for
rookeries to be shot that have been extinct for years, and a tree
with a few nests is called a rookery, which must be attacked and
transformed into a Hitlerite torture camp, because some bureau—
crats are obsessed with the erroneous idea that “an excessive
assembly of Rooks” on the drilled corn ﬁelds must be consuming
nothing but corn; they express surprise when these poor birds
are killed and found crammed with insects and grubs which the
drill and the harrows bring to the surface. The idea of Rooks
with their insectivorous beaks preferring grain to insects, is so
fallacious that it must expire by its own falsity. The majority of
farmers and smallholders have not the time, the talent, or the
inclination, to study birds: those who have, are loud in their
praise of the Rook, “Some farmers,” says The Field (August
28, 1943) “offer the Rooks on their land an extra bushel of corn
per acre as" a reward for the good they undoubtedly do.” But
this reward is an embarras de richesses, as Dr. W. Collinge’s
ﬁgures show thata Rook consumes less than half a pound of
cereals per week, per year, so the Rooks portion from Total cereals
sown and reaped is inﬁnitesimal. If only 2% bushels of seed corn

 




 

 

is sown, and the density of the Rook is as high as one Rook to
every two acres, and the corn crop as low as 3,4721!» for two
acres, the Rook’s share is only 18“). from 3,472“). The diagram
shows what 15,000 Rooks might take from 30,000 acres of corn
sown and reaped if we allow that 35 per cent. of their food is
grain. We are not told when or where it was found, or if ger—
minated.

 

 

 

 

 

 

If the oblong be taken as the amount of the total crop, then the thin line
at the right-hand end rather over—represents the rook's share.

If shooting nesting Rooks is regarded as “ sport” and not
despicable butchery, it should be subject to the laws and codes that
apply to blood sport, one of which is “protection," not mutilation,
in the close season, and the other is not to ﬁre at sitting birds, or
at birds in the nest. If it is sheer butchery, it should be made
illegal and save Great Britain from the stigma of national hypo—
crisy, as we profess to be humane and civilized, and every noted
ornithologist is in favour of these lovable and valuable members
of our countryside.

T. S. HAWKINS, Author of “My Friend the Rook,” etc.

Rook

During the past ﬁfty years, this species has received more
attention as regards its food habits than any other British species,
and the general consensus of opinion is that this bird is economic—
ally of the very greatest value. The nature of its food has been
shown to consist of large quanties of injurious insects and their
larvm, some of which are most difﬁcult to destroy and which
annually exact a huge toll on the produce of the land.

The amount of insect food that insectivorous birds will eat i8
very large. I have given the following as an illustration and in
an endeavour to bring the fact home to the public. Assuming that
there are 32,000,000 acres of land under cultivation in Great
Britain and that we have a pair of birds to everv four acres, these
16,000,000 would consume annually 135,411,3ZB,000 insects, and
these would be destroyed just as the season of the greatest agfi‘

 

 




 

 

cultural activity and would be accomplished without any outlay of
men or money. Yet it now seems that ill—informed people are
advocating the destruction of Rooks, Gulls, Blackbirds, Thrushes

and other insect—eating birds. '

DR. WALTER E. COLLINGE, “Nature” (Jan. 30th, 1943), Vol. 151

Rooks and Farming

“Personally, I never allow Rooks to be disturbed from young
corn, and I have never known a bad crop to follow. If they were
after the corn in such numbers they would about clear the crop.
In June and July my Rooks and Jackdaws ﬂy off early in the ’
mOrning to the oak forest two miles away where they spend the
whole day gorging on the little yellow caterpillars which would
strip the trees bare of their leaves. Forestry Commission and
woodland owners, please note that ! My conclusions from all this
is . . . . (too long to quote) that what damage the Rook does to
farming is a very small wage to pay him for all the good he does.
If what I have written, as the result of my own observations over
many years is mainly correct, how can there be too many of them ?*
Surely they ought. to be protected.”

MAJOR—GENERAL SIR HEREWARD WAKE, BART., D.S.O.
Northampton Independent (April 30th, 1943).

[s the Rook Our Most Valuable Bird?

“Sin—We are suffering to—day acutely in food production
from a noticeable reduction of many species of our native birds,
and the most valuable of all is the Rook.

While intensively farming ten thousand acres, nine—tenths of
which are arable, I can honestly say I have never lost a crop from .
damage by rooks, and days together in this district during late
autumn and winter ﬁelds are black over with Rooks.”

GEO. FRED YOUNG, “Ernbsay,” N octon, N r. Lincoln.
From Farmer and Stock Breeder (27th April, 1943).

In Defence of Rooks. ‘ ‘

Sir,~May I be allowed to defend that most valuable friend of
the farmer~the Rook? My farm is nearly 800 acres, of which
just on 600 are arable and classed “A.” There are seven rook—
eries within approximately one mile, including one on the farm,
Of over 60 nests. The birds have free access to any crop and are
never scared off. I should add here that they are always: most
interested in wheat, barley, or oats, just in the early stages of

 




 

growth. Now results (1942 harvest: Third crop of wheat on 80
acres—945 sacks: oats up—to—date (more to thresh)———over 19

sacks per acre: barley—9 sacks per acre) have deﬁnitely proved _

the Rooks to be one of the greatest factors in increased: yields.
The Rook is condemned on account of alleged damage, if it
amounts to anything at all, is nothing compared with the good
resulting from destruction of insects. Careful observation will
show the greatest concentration of Rooks on the worst grub in—
fested ﬁelds.

JAMES G. JEFFERY.
Farmers’ Weekly (April 22nd, 1943). .

Friend or Foe.

“Two incidents last spring have ﬁnally resolved in my mind
the eternal question as to whether Rooks do more good than harm.
A very rough ﬁeld of permanent pasture land had been ploughed
in and sown early with oats. The seed did not go in well, the
majority of it appearing to lie on the surface. Immediately after
sowing there came about a fortnight’s rain, so that none of my
neighbours were able to sow; consequently very Rook on the
countryside ﬂocked to this one ﬁeld; it was black with them. We
made up our minds that the ﬁeld would have to be worked and
sown again. On the contrary, however, there came a full and
heavy crop untouched by wireworm. Another ﬁeld was also
sown with spring oats, and a little while after the blade had come

up, wireworm appeared, and about ﬁve acres vanished with extra— '

ordinary rapidity. We immediately harrowed this bare patch,
broadcast more seed over it, and gave it a heavy rolling. The
soil there was alive with wireworm. Once again thick swarms
of Rooks concentrated on. this patch, the wireworm ceased from
troubling and the corn came up thickly to the tune of sixteen sacks
to the acre.” i
COLONEL A. A. H. BEATMAN.

Wilts arid Gloucestershire Standard (lst [Ware/1, 1941).

Sir,———It is very gratifying to know that the much maligned
Rook has a few defenders. For nearly forty years the very close
study of wild birds has been my hobby. I am glad that Dr.
Susman called attention to a nearby crop of oats and my experi-
ence of something similar may be of interest. Seed oats were
sown last autumn in a ﬁeld adjoining my garden and for the eight
followmg days, for an average of over three hours each day, a
ﬂock of Rooks ranging between 320 and 410 searched the dis-
turbed soil and it was more than interesting to be repeatedly
informed that there would be no crop worth While. The crop has

in a.




just been harvested and proves to be the cleanest and heaviest in
the district. I was able one day to .lie 'behind cover and watch
the clearing by the Rooks of three patches of wireworm, and I
would that others would take the trouble involved in ﬁnding out
for themselves. Incidentally, these Rooks came froin a village
near Wokingham. With the assistance of two gentlemen with
fast cars, I was able to verify this. In the past few years I have
been successful in weaning ﬁve of the most successful farmers
in this county away from Rook shooting, and they have all been
gentlemen enough to tell me that I have been right, while they
were wrong. I have noticed that the complaints always come
from the people who for some reason only half do their land, corn
and potatoes on or near the top at plainting time—a direct invita—‘
tion to birds. There may or there may, not be too many Rooks,
but it will be a sad day for all of us if any” wholesale destruction
of any birds takes place. _
YOurs faithfully,
E. BINT, Binfield Heath.

Henley Standard (August 20th, 1943);.

Light on Roo/e Controversy.

Rooks had been much in evidence on land sown with oats at
Lottbridge-Drove. It was thought that the birds were eating the
corn, so the foreman of the tenant of the land shot one, only to
ﬁnd it full of slugs, no corn, and the Rooks continued to busy
themselves on the land; their presence became a standing joke.
Passers—by said “there would not be any corn left,” but there was
a beautiful crop coming along. They came to the ﬁeld in thousands.
People said, “If you do not shoot those Rooks you will not have

any oats,” but the foreman pointed out the green shoots, saying,

“You don’t want anything better than that.” .
Another employer on the same farm said, he, too, had mls—

takenly supposed that the Rooks were damaging the oats. “ If

you had seen this ﬁeld you would have thought every Rook in

Eastbourne was here.”

Extract from Eastbonrne Chronicle (June 21st, 1941).

Facts About Rooks.

“Thorne farmers have turned down the W.A.E.C.’s recommen-
dation for an offensive drive against rookeries in the dlstrict.
Mr. H. H. Brabbs, a leading farmer, states that some farmers
look upon the Rook as their best friend, while Mr. C. Hlnchcllffe,
vice—chairman, another farmer, said, “I try to encourage Rooks.
I don’t like them shot : they do a power of good.” “One member

 




 

 

 

 

 

said'he was told that the Rooks had ruined his sowing of oats, but
instead he discovered that he had one of the best oat crops he
ever had.”

Doncaster Gazette (lst April, 1943).

“It is strongly argued that much of the agitation against Rooks
is ill—founded, and does not square with the known facts of natural
history.”

The Recorder (18th April, 1941).

“Much of the agitation against Rooks comes from the commer-

cial shooting fraternity. They want to shoot.”——T. S. HANKINS.

“Let Rooks have fair play. They are killed on evidence whiCh

could not ﬁnd its way into a mock trial.” 3 '
KENNAWAY JAMES.

[Whitby Gazette (July 3lst, 1936).

Perhaps those valiant men who bravely pour death and misery
into the home of the Rook would be better employed in ﬁghting a
human enemy (who can hit back). Assuming a case could be
made out against the Rook (which 1 strongly deny), this does not

justify the letting loose of the most primitive, violent instincts as,

happens when nesting Rooks are to be “eliminted.”
' E. G. BARLow.

Facts About Rooks.

For one letter in the Press condemning the birds there have
been at least a score showing their value, mostly from farmers
and landowners. 1n the present season my attention was drawn
to a ﬁeld in Lanarkshire which when newly sown with grain was
for long black with Rooks. Nearly everyone but the laird pre—
dicted complete failure of the crop, but it 'has turned out the best
in the district.

J. S. M.
Weekly Scotsman (Sept. 11th, 1943).

“A kindly neighbour sent a message after the drill teams had
left the ﬁeld. ‘If you do not send someone to keep the Rooks off
your ﬁeld just planted, they will have all vour seed.’ I replied,
‘If you see them stocking the wheat when coming up let me know.
They never do. This is my lifelong experience.’ ”

A. J. C.
Land Agent Record (June 3rd, 1939).




Sir,—-There has been considerable controversy from time to
time as to whether Rooks do good or harm. Owing to the situa—
tion of this farm amongst the woods and rookeries I have had a
singular opportunity of studying the question and in view of the
Rook Destruction Order I would like to add my testimony. My
potatoes were planted with a mechanical planter which, if a great
labour saver, does not cover them as deeply as might be desired.
The Rooks dug them out and pecked holes in them. I considered
shooting up the rookery in the corner of the ﬁeld but it occurred
to me that it was strange that they only pecked them and left them.
I dug out some myself and discovered that they had wireworm
_ sticking out of them. It was undoubtedly these the Rooks were
after. This same season we planted a different ﬁeld with potatoes
but not one was dug out by the Rooks and we had no (wireworm
in them. Recently we have been ploughing up a grass ﬁeld free
from wireworm, also working down the ﬁeld where we had the
poatatoes dug out by the Rooks. They came down on the plough—
ing and although there were plenty of fat earth worms they did
not stay but were continually on the ﬁeld being worked where we
know there is a large wireworm population. I will not shoot a
Rook.

L. T. BEAMISH.

Evesham Journal, 3 / l 2 / 43.

F. A. Fulcher in “Birds of Our Islands,” relates a case of
numerous Rooks being shot digging up potatoes and picking pieces
out of them, but they contained nothing but grubs which had
burrowed into the potatoes and spoilt them.

Notes 071 N aturat History
By L. H. HAYWARD

“In 1941—42 a large pasture ﬁeld facing my house was ploughed
and sown with wheat. F or months the Rooks visited this ﬁeld
twice a day, spreading all over it. The result was one of the best
Wheat crops in the district, so‘heavy that one of the ‘sails’ of the
self-binder broke, so high and so thick that as I heard sa1d., ‘One
cad lean agin it.’ .

“This last winter the Rooks have deserted the ﬁeld 1n favour
Of a block of about 600 acres, recently ploughed and sown by the
War Agricultural Committee where no doubt they. have found a
fresh and abundant supply of wireworm, etc. They must have
had the time of their lives. In many cases where the Rooks are
blamed for a thin crop the responsibility should probably be borne

 




 

by the wireworms which the poor birds are doing their best to ex-
terminate.” ' -

S‘lirewsbary Chronicle (May 28th, 1943).

“One would almost believe that Rooks have a set plan to help
the farmers to destroy the insect pest. They seem 'to work a ﬁeld
methodically, starting at one end and searching a certain area
thoroughly before they fly away. I have often noticed on their
return they invariably start almost on the very spot they left off.
I haVe often examined a ﬁeld on which the Rooks have been work—
ing, and have found hundreds of little round holes in the ground
pierced by the Rooks with their strong beaks in search of insects.
Admitting that Rooks eat corn, their chance of doing so is only
for a short period, therefore placing soame effective device to
scarce them away during this short period would be doing the
country far better service than destroying young Rooks.”

' J. LL. EVANS.
Liverpool Daily Post (171% April, 1942).

In your farming notes of last week I saw these words, “Target
for to—day.” I do not wish to comment on this, as there has been
so much said for and against Rooks—workmen who never go on
strike—but I would like you to publish these facts. A farmer has
two woods on his farm which are the home of a huge colony of
Rooks. Between these woods is a large ﬁeld (18 acres), I have
seen this ﬁeld almost black with the birds, part of the ﬁeld was
wheat and when the corn was threshed it yielded 8 qrs. 1 bus.
per acre. In a ﬁeld about two miles away on another farm the
Rooks could hardly get a birds eye view, this year the farmer has

got to re-sowowing to the ravages of the wireworm. To the .

farming world these two incidents need no comment of mine.

SAMUEL FRENCH.
Essex Weekly (16th April, 1943).

Rooks Catching Mice.

I have seen Rooks in thousands round freshly threshed mouSe
infested stacks, and, out of curiosity have shot one, to ﬁnd him
full of mice. - ' ‘

, H. R. ORSMAN.
Farmers’ Weekly (April 22nd, 1943). - '

From experiaence I am convinced that the amount of wireworm
and leatherjackets Rooks destroy outweigh their bad deeds a hun—
dred times. Watch a cultivator at work in newly ploughed out

 

 




 

 

 

pasture, hundreds of Rooks will follow up and down busily pick—
in’: up the pests the arable farmer dreads. I shot a Rook feeding
On newly sown spring corn and found not one grain of oats but
. no less than 120 \\.‘ireworms. l‘ have not shot a Rook Since. How
n‘iany thousand tons of grain and potatoes are lost through wire-
worms.H

HECTOR W. SMITH.
Eves/mm JOHN/(1f, 12/12/42.

Many lissex farmers want more than a quarter of the Rooks
reprieved that the \fV.A.IZ.C. wanted killed, contending that the
Rooks good work in destroying pests far outweighs what damage

they do. In order to prove it a number of young Rooks were shot

Which were preying very heavily upon a barley ﬁeld, but not one
kernel of corn was in them, their gizzards were full of leather—
jackets, wireworni, and beetles.

Farmers’ l/Vce/c/i' (2151‘ llllarc‘h, 1941).

Value of Koo/cs.

Sin—ll see that of all public bodies the Ministry of Agriculture
has requested the Council of Ilford, Essex, to destroy 50 per cent.
of the Rooks nests in Valentine’s Park. Does not even the Minis—
try know the value of this bird? It seems not. Then they should
at once make a practical test by giving this bird fair scope and
it would soon prove its worth.

I am, etc.,
JAMES G. JEFFERY-

li‘armer and Slor/c Breeder (27th April, 1943).

111 the Daily Herald, 13/4/43, we are told “Village members
of the N18 are drowning the nesting Rooks With hose pipes
and Royal Observer Corps are ‘spotting’ Rooks f01‘ farmers to
concenatrate their offensive." , ,, . ,. .

Mr. H. Golds, a champion of the Rook, writes I. .ThIS kllllng
Of Rooks to save the crops is something akin to kllllﬂg one Italian
and letting in a score of Germans. Rooks are no lovers 0f gram 3
they will eat it much the same as a hungry man. W111 make 3 T116331
of bread when there is nothing better, but at all times Rooks prefer
soft tasty food. They will pull up wilting young turnips after
they have been singled out in order to obtain the maggots at the
roots.

Edinburgh Evening News (17th [Wag], 1943).

HE. Aid In Koo/e 5/100l‘l'7/lg-

“1 and manv others trust that no ammunition W111 b6 wasted

by the Home Guard and that these valuable birds will not be

 




 

massacred to the country’s loss.” It may be amusing to Major
Baldwin, who made the suggestion. at the North Riding N.F.U.
meeting to “see a Rook wobbling about a tree top,” and being shot
at by the members of the Home Guard, but with Punch I say : :
“ O homo sapiens who must

at any cost your trigger pull,

I sometimes think your species just

A little bit too plentiful.”

DR. W. E. COLLENGE.

l‘ror/eshire Evening Press ( 7th April, 1943).

Prejudice and Ignorance.

“ Sin—Last summer a man showed me a cornﬁeld which was so
thin andIpoverty—stricken in growth that it did not seem to have
been worth sowing. T he topic turned upon pests. He looked
pityingly at the ﬁeld and told me what ravages a few Rooks could
inflict in a short time. '

“"‘31,1t,’ I commented, ‘there isn’t a ro<:)kery in the neighbour—
hood and l never see a Rook hereabouts.’ Thrashing it out to a
ﬁne point he admitted that he had never seen a Rook in the ﬁeld.
As a matter of fact the trouble was insect pests and the result of
bad agriculture.

R. H. HILL.

Yorkshire Post (28th April, 1943).

A very usual case of so—called Rook damage—T. S. HANKINs.
The Scottish Society for the Protection of [Wild Birds.
see the far—reaching “red—light” for our post—war world, for they
saywithOut fear or favour, that the Rook is one of the most useful
birds to agriculture, and shooting them in the close—season and
forcing them to choose between the feeding of their young and the
protection of their own lives sems brutal. The resultant starva—
tion of their young is not an effect that most minds can contem—
plate with pleasure. To young children such scenes and such
methods of destructiOn are calculated to coarsen the nature and
to develop that callousness of feeling and absence of compassion
which is now associated with the term Hitlerism. My Executive
trusts that the unnecessary, objectionable, and repulsive methods
of destruction of these useful birds Will cease, particularly in View
of the immensely beneﬁcial nature of their activities at a time
when the nation is endeavouring to increase its food production.
It will be a deplorable result to us as a great nation if, in the end,
while conquering Hitler’s armies we allow ourselves to be con~
quered by his principles of cruelty and pitilessness.

C.L.&J., 68-70 Wardour Street, W.1

 




