SOME SOCIAL RESULTS
OFTHE MEATLESS DIET

BY

ERNEST BELL, M.A.
Editor of “The Animals’ Friend.”

THE LONDON VEGETARIAN SOCIETY,
8, JOHN STREET, ADELPHI, w.c..z.

Price Twopence, post free.

 




 

The Humane Diet Leaflets

Edited by Ernest Bell, M.A., President Vegetarian Society, and Dr.
Bertrand Allinson, President London Vegetarian Society.

MAN’S NATURAL DIET. By Bertrand Alllnson, M.R.O.S., L.R.O.P.

THE MENTAL FACTOR, AND HOW TO BEGIN. By Ernest Bell, M.A.'

MEAT SUBSTITUTES. Recipes by Mrs. A. Barnett.

HEALTH FOR OUR BOYS AND GIRLS. By w. A. Slhly, M.A., Oxon.
ATHLETIC FEATS OF VECETARIANS. By Henry Light.

THE ETHICS OF DIET. By James Hough.

iNVALID AND CONVALESCENT DIET. By Dr. Bertrand Allinson.
SOME OBJECTIONS ANSWERED. By Ernest Bell, M.A.

THE CATTLE TRAFFIC. By Dr F. H. Rowley.

Price aid. each or fifty for l/-, post free.

Other Leaflets at the same price.
HINTS FOR ATHLETES AND MANUAL WORKERS. By H. Light.

By J. and R. Moore.
UNCOOKED AND VITAL FOODS. Simple Recipes and Menus for a year.
FRUITARIAN DIET FOR CHILDREN.
FRUITARIAN DIET FOR INFANTS.

THE COST OF A BEEFSTEAK;

A PLEA FOR THE OX.
By Charles w. Forward.

A prettily printed booklet, with 4 illustrations, on parchment cover,
price 8d.

 

“0f the thousands who eat beefsteaks’ how many are there who
pause for a moment to consider the cost of this food.”

IN A NUTSHELL:

Cons and Pros of the Meatless Diet.
By ERNEST BELL, President of the Vegetarian Society.

The object of this booklet is to show that reason, as well
as right feeling, is on the side of humaneness in diet as
in all other matters.

Price 6d. postage 2d.

 

 

London Vegetarian Society, 8, John Street, Adelphi, W.C. 2.

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

SOME 1 SOCIAL RESULTS OF THE
MEATLESS DIET.

BY ERNEST BELL, MA.

My object in this article is to show you that vegetarianism is
not merely a. question of what we shall have for dinner or whether
we must give up bacon for breakfast, as many people seem to think,
but is very much more, and that in. fact, the ﬂesh-eating fallacy,
like a stream of impure blood circulating through the body and affect—
ing every part, permeates the whole of our social system and daily
lives, from the shoes we wear in the road to a string quartet in our
concerts, and from drunkenness in the streets to the hymns in

ch urch .

Our opponents almost invariably attack us on scientific as
opposed to ethical grounds. They tell us, for instance, that
scientiﬁcally we are wrong to try to live without meat and that it
is impossible to be healthy without animal food. -

They tell us of the chemical ingredients needed to form the
necessary muscle, though they have the elephant and the horse
staring them in the face—they tell us that the so-called “ canine ”
teeth prove that we were meant to eat meat, though they know or
Ought to know—that these teeth are much more highly developed in
apes, and that wild boars have them. in really splendid form—they
tell usthat the structure of our bodies shows that ﬂesh is our natural
diet, though everyone knows that we cannot eat it until it has. gone
through the. 1mnatuml process of being cooked ; all of which is.
amusing but silly, but of course we have to meet them on their own
ground and follow the scriptural injunction to “ answer a fool accord~
ing to his folly lest he. be wise in his own conceit.”

 

They do not see that they are giving themselves away all the.
time. '

They never and this is my point—they never tell us that we
are morally wrong in abstaining from ﬂesh food. They almost all,
without exception, admit that we are “amiable fools,” “ well»-
meaning "’ but misguided fanatics, people with “ excellent inten-
tions ” but very little sense at the back of them. They, in fact,
admit that as far as sentiment is concerned, we are quite right,
commendable and altogether admirable. It is our intellects only
which are at fault.

 

 




 

:1
l
'4
1,
!
l.

2

Their compliment is. one which, unfortunately, we cannot
return. We cannot by any stretch of amiability say, or feel, that
the meat-eater is actuated by any lofty motive in his choice. He
has no unselﬁsh ideal to work out in the matter. His whole effort
is to defend or excuse that which his. feelings all the time tell him
is a selﬁsh and cruel practice. He has to shut his eyes to much
that he dares not face, to try to invent so—called scientiﬁc reasons
to excuse that which in itself is obviously very undesirable and dis—
creditable—“ a. painful. necessity,” as he sometimes calls it.

Personally, I would rather rank as a well-meaning fool than an
unscrupulous rascal, but there is no need at present to make the
choice. as in this case we have reason as well as sentiment on our
side. We have often been told that what is morally wrong cannot
be scientiﬁcally right.

The world is, quite rightly, governed by feeling, and not by
human reason. The man whose heart or feelings are in the right
place may not be so successful, from a purely worldly point of View,
as the one who calculates. all costs and acts for material good mainly,
but he carries wit-h him the motive power which will lead him
onwards and upwards and develop the more perfect character, which
the other is daily making it more difﬁcult to attain.

It is with nations. as with individual units who compose them,
and we have lately had before us the example of the ill-effects on
a great nation of basing its conduct on intellect solely, to the con-
tempt and neglect of right feeling. It was a German philosopher
who wrote more than a. century ago,

“ The man who has most sympathy is the best man—is the
one most dis. osed towards social virtue-s to nobleness of ever 7
. 3
sort. He who awakens our compassion makes us better and more
Virtuous. ’ ’

His. nation had forgotten. this and the results have not been
such as. to lead the world to think that the philosopher was wrong.
If our feelings are right, as our opponents somewhat condescendingly
admit, we need have no fear that the results will be wrong.

Let us now come to our special subject and look at some of the
effects on the world, which would result from the general abandon-
ment of the ﬂesh diet, and I think we shall ﬁnd that it is more
far-reaching than most people. have any conception of , and that in
our work of reform we have ranged against us really tremendous
forces.

Firstly, of course, we are faced with the great slaughter-
house question, and it is difficult to grasp what this. means and the
number of persons whom it inﬂuences directly and indirectly
throughout the world.

At Chicago, the great American centre, are miles of slaughter-
houses, covering an area large enough for a city, with railway trains,




electric trams, and elaborate and costly machinery to carry out the
Work. It is estimated that 100,000,000 animals are annually
slaughtered in America for food. .

In all countries on the Continent of Europe are elaborately
equipped abattoirs, where millions of animals. are killed, and England
has its Deptford and its. unnumbered small slaughter-houses. In
connection with these places are also gangs of those young women
known as gut girls ” whose business it is to clean the entrails of
slaughtered animals.

We are not concerned here with the cruelty of the whole
business, but with the number of people who are employed in this
unsavoury work and spend their lives in the demorali-sing surround—
ings. Mr. Charles Booth, in his book on “Life and Labour in
London, ” in speaking of the slaughterman, says. “ Though far from
the poorest they are the most degraded class , the simplest and
grossest forms of physical indulgence are all they ask from life. The
conditions of the work have also a degrading effect on the young

womenemployed. . . . altogether there seems. to be a quite excep—
tional amount of low-toned life, ”—and I think no one can wonder at
this. The number of people, men and women, engaged in this

degrading work must be reckoned by many millions.

But this is only the beginning of it. In connection with the
trade we have the overseas traffic in cattle—from North and South
America, the Cap-e, Egypt, the Continent and Ireland. No one can
defend this trafﬁc ethically. All admit that something ought to be
done by someone, but they all patronise it in the meantime by con-
suming its products. Here again are other millions of people
employed in the horrible work.

Nor is this all. The Cattle Raisers must not be omitted, the
Cowboys, the Farmers, with a hundred thousand markets all over
the world, all centres of a. vast trade. And in addition to this the
tanners, the manufacturers of the implements and instruments
employed, the poleaxes, cauldron-s, pulleys, etc, etc.

We have here many millions of men and women getting a living
out of this great abuse. Imagine the difference to the world if all
these were set free to do some other more humanising work. And
What is the net result at the other end? A writer in the Daily News
has quoted Prof. W ood’s ﬁgures showing that

“ a. pig consumes 12 lbs. of dry grain to manufacture 1 lb. of pork; a
fowl’s ratio is 14 to 1, a sheep’s 24 to l, and a fat bullock’s 64 to 1.
The last is monstrous. 64 lbs. of corn to one of meat casts a serious
shadow over the roast beef of Old England . . . . our dear loaf comes
directly from. the fact that the bullock and the sheep and the pig are
eating 9,000,000 tons of grain to our 5,000,000 tons, and the: .obvious
remedy is to abolish the sheep and the pig and the bullock. 113.18 not a
question of the relative beneﬁts of vegetarianism. When. things .are
easier the bullock may ﬂourish again, if he is wanted, but thls 1s not the
time for beef. The rate of exchange is too high.”

What sort of science is it that seeks to justify this. Wholesale
infringement not only of the law of hu-maneness but also of all

 

 




 

4

economic laws. The ﬁshing trade again, though not so large as the
other, extends over all the world and means that other millions of
men and women are spending their lives in the actual ﬁshing and in
the manufacture of the necessary appliances in the way of boats.
ﬁshing tackle, etc. Will. they not also be employed in more humane
and edifying work when vegetarianism reigns in the world?

These are the most obvious outcomes of the meat habit, and to
overcome them might seem to be a Herculean task, but if you will
think a little you will see that this is not by any means. all. The
habit permeates everything. Shoe leather, saddles, gloves, furs,
numerous other articles of clothing, hair brushes, violin strings,
gelatine, glue, and a hundred other things in daily use are all by-
products of animal slaughter with their millions of producers. The
purveyors of all such things will all naturally regard us as dangerous
, fanatics interfering with their trades.

It is not only in material things that we shall note a. difference.
Our institutions, our games, our art, our literature, our language and
our religions will also be affected.

Turning ﬁrst to the subject of games, dear to the heart of the
average Englishman, must we not see that with the eating of ﬂesh
the whole abomination of blood-sports must also go of necessity—
when men have developed a little more sense and humane feeling
and have lost the excuse that the birds and the so—called ground
game are used for food. W’ ill they dare in these more enlightened
days to defend the pure love of killing for its own sake ‘2

Here again the reform will interfere with very large numbers
of inﬂuential men and very large tracts of country. All of these we
have, of course, against us in our reform.

Once more, will the torture of animals for scientiﬁc purposes
be tolerated when the torturers have lost the excuse that we kill for
food and therefore they may kill for science? I believe not, and I
think they themselves know it, so the whole of that group—who are
now numerous and inﬂuential beyond their numbers—is ranged
against us.

Our literature, I said, will also call for revision. Our poets,
‘ on the whole, have been much superior to the prose writers,
naturally, since the vegetarian system is the poetry of diet as
cannibalism is the prose, but still they have not all been immaculate
and will have to mend their ways. Think of that “ Assyrian who
came down like a wolf on the fold, while his cohorts were gleaming
in purple and gold.” We shall have no folds in those happy times
we hope, and no call to abuse senselessly the wolf who is not really
half so ferocious as human beings often are at the present time.
The poet indeed admits that the Assyrian was no better than the
wolf. ‘

 




5

Our language, as everyone knows, is a tell—tale witness of past

‘ history, and its barbarities will need much expurgation. When

vegetarianism reigns in the land we shall not abuse people by calling
them as “ silly as sheep ” or as “ fat as pigs,” for instance. We
shall then know the sheep and the pig only in their natural states,
where the one is a skilful and sagacious mountain climber and the
other a well—proportioned athlete, who can clear a ﬁve-barred gate.

Our proverbs, too, which are held to store up the wisdom of the

past, will call for revision. Imagine really reﬁned people expressing

themselves by saying, “The nearer the bone the sweeter the
meat ”—is it not horrid? Or how can one imagine anyone but a

barbarian talking of killing two birds with one stone? To “ spur ”
. one on to further exertion will become a tell-tale expression. of the

present barbarous times. Again, how distressing it is to hear a

'7 gentle young lady telling you that all her plans for a holiday were

“knocked on the head”——a simile evidently taken from the slaughter-
house. A “ bone of contention,” again, is not a nice thing, and in
real vegetarian days we shall be quite content then with an “ apple
of discord.” Whether in those days we shall still be as much
addicted to over—eating that our favourite method of expressing
that we are tired of anything is that we are “ fed up with it ”—
as at present is the case—I dare not prophesy, but I hope not.

Even our Bible will have to be revised once more when the.
humane diet becomes general. Who willbe able to pray to the
god Whose are the cattle on a thousand hills, when there are no
more any cattle on the hills; and where will be the need to order
that the kid shall not be seethed in its mother’s milk when kids
are no longer seethed at all? The hymn books will fare no better
and will need expurgation. It has always been a mystery to me
how hymn singers could accept that very unchristian simile “ as
pants the hart for cooling streams when heated in the chase, so
longs,” etc., but I need not ﬁnish it. Could anything be more
incongruous and barbaric?

These and many other ideas will, we may hope, be banished
from our religious books. But this too will meet with much
opposition from the? numberless people who cling by preference to
old barbarities.

I had almost forgotten that large and inﬂuential body of men
and women, dear to the hearts of all unhealthy people, who, alas!
are in a great majority under our present system. I mean the
medical profession. What will be the effect of the meatless diet
on their calling? Is it any wonder that they do not as a body look
with approval on our reforms and tell us that the falsely named

canine teeth show that we ought to live on cooked ﬂesh? Surely
when the world changes its evil habits they will be amongst the

ﬁrst to dwindle in numbers and in material prosperity.

Vegetarians can be ill, we know unfortunately, and at some
time or other they do require a signature to a death certiﬁcate, and

 

 

 

 




 

 

6

until we mend our ways in many other matters there will be calls
for hygienic doctors, but I think there is no doubt that the meatless
feeder enjoys much better health than the meat eater. His ail-
ments are fewer and lighter, as one might expect—his life being
simpler altogether—and the general adoption of the diet would
largely reduce all doctors, surgeons, hospital operations, inocula-
tions, drugs, stimulants, sedatives, and all that appertains thereto.
Think only what this would mean and the millions whom it would
affect.

Of the great subject of war we cannot speak with any certainty. .

Will it also cease when the world becomes vegetarian? I am not
sure. I have heard rumours that some members of vegetarian
societies have been known to quarrel amongst themselves, and what
the individual does is reproduced in the race. There is, however,
no evidence obtainable that they have ever shown any inclination to
resort to bayonets and bombs, mines or poison gases, as yet, and I
think there is amongst us less pugnacity and more desire for the
peaceful life than amongst some others; so we may, perhaps, safely
assume that in working for our cause we are working also against
the continuation of all wars. Think only what that will mean.
Picture the millions of people over the world even in times of peace
who spend their lives preparing for war—the War Offices, the
General Staffs, the Armies, the Navies, the Shipbuilders, Uniform
Makers, Munition Workers, Tax Collectors and millions of others
too numerous to mention. Will they all welcome the reform which
will make unnecessary their work? I think not until the world has
advanced somewhat.

There is just one other point in which the triumph of our cause
will make an enormous difference. I mean in our view of the so—
called lower animals.” It is impossible for anyone to accord
to them any modicum of rights as long as so many of the most
familiar are regarded only as prospective “ meat ” and the main
idea raised by them is whether or not they will be good eating or
whether their joints will be better roasted or boiled, or served up
with horseradish, mint sauce, or currant jelly.

Is it any wonder that so many people still hold to that foolish
and unphilosophical idea that the animals were created for our
beneﬁt?

The latest humane teaching is that all life is one and that the
golden rule of doing to others as we would wish them to do to us
must apply equally to all sentient creatures. The very ﬁrst applica-

tion of this would be to spare them an unnatural life followed by a
cruel death.

But I have said enough—perhaps too much. Readers can
follow out the subject for themselves if they like, and will see more
and more, how our daily lives, our morals, our methods, our




J

 

 

7

religions and our institutions, our games and our tools, our dress,

are all inﬂuenced by and are largely dependent on this great fallacy
of meat-eating.

We have then to realise that we have ranged against us really
tremendous material forces and all the millions who are engaged
in the above trades and callings, with all the selﬁshness that is
centred in the instinct of self—preservation.

No one likes to give up what he is accustomed to or that by
which he makes personal proﬁt, and all will ﬁght to prove by

“ reason,” as they call it, that what they are used to and proﬁt by
is RIGHT.

I do not say this to discourage you in any way, but rather that
you may take courage; and to show you how, in spite of the
tremendous odds against us, we who are still only a small handful
of workers—enthusiastic fanatics if you like have for years been
making very appreciable progress.

 

There is one reason only for this, and that is that we have
Right on our side. Lately the needs and teaching of the war have,
I think, given our cause a good help, which without the war would
have taken years to accomplish, but which even the war would not
have accomplished if we had not been preparing the ground for 70
years beforehand. The whole icountry has now realised that men
can live without meat. We have all talked about meatless days,
all the newspapers have advocated meatless days and print meat-
less recipes. Even Members of Parliament have had meatless
luncheons—and are still alive—they may not have liked them and
have not adhered to them longer than they were obliged, but they
have practically demonstrated the fallacy of the assertion that meat
is an essential. to life and. health. I say we need not feel at all dis-
couraged even when we reckon up the enormous forces of our
enemy. All evil is self-destructive. We have right on our side
and are bound to win in the end.

And all can help, and that in ways which may not be apparent
at ﬁrst sight. Let us vegetarians realise and show in our daily
lives that our cause is only one facet of the jewel of Truth, one
branch of the Love that overcometh all things. We cannot advance
alone, that is without the corresponding progress in other branches
of rightness. We see this on all sides. Vegetarians who have
become so from conviction, not on purely selﬁsh grounds, are all
strivers after other high ideals, and on the other hand, we notice
very distinctly that those persons who lead other humanising move-
ments—Theosophy, New Thought, Christian Science, VVomen’s
Emancipation, Universal Peace, and the Simple Life in its ideal
teaching—inevitably ﬁnd their way towards the humane diet.

And this may show you how all can help in the work, how all
who are honestly striving after the Ideal must be helping, even

-amyriue: “"‘W‘ " 4‘:-::'i‘-_r;>’:—~'t"l A:— 4.; i

. v ramasaev‘sggamwwwww "133’??sz

 

 

 




 

8

Without being conscious of it. You may not be writers or speakers
or demonstrators of cookery, but you are all spiritual beings, striving-
after a high ideal, and on the other hand, you all carry about With
you a personal inﬂuence—often all the more powerful because it
is unconscious and just in as far as you are fearlessly living out
a pure and sympathetic life and one helpful to all those with whom
you come in contact—Whether human or subhuman—you will be
helping on our great and good Cause, and with it at the same time
all other good Causes. '

 

 

E. 0. Beck, 6'2 Strand VV.C.

 

 

 




A BOOK; OF’REFERENCE FOR
' VEGETARIANS.

The Food Reformers’
‘ Year Book, 1923.

The Year Book contains much information that is indispensable
to Food Reformers, including Lists of Boarding Houses and
Apartments, Health Food Stores, Hotels and Restaurants, Health
foods, Foods for Invalids and Children, Sanitaria, Schools,
Vegetarian Societies. Training Institutions, Places Where Reform
Cookery is taught. Books on Food Reform and Health, Useful
tables, etc., besides Articles by well-known writers.

100 peges Price 1 /6 Post Free.

Obtainable from the Publishers :~ The London Vegetarian Society, 8, John
Street, Adelphi, London, WC. 2.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

VEGETARIAN SOCIAL
CLUB ‘

In association with the London
Vegetarian Society.

Established to promote
Concerts, Dances, Dinners
and other social entertain-
_ 'ments for Vegetarians and
their friends.

see The Vegetarian News

each month for announce-

ments of past events and

“ programme of coming

, events.

‘ Hon. Sec.: V

HECTOR NICHOLLS,

. 25, Mantilla Road,

Tooting Bec Common,
S.W.17.

 

 

 

‘ FEEDWELL : SPEEDWELL ’

      

The . § and
Vegetarian Athletic
Cycling club.

Founded 1886.

TO MAKE VEGETARIANS ATHLETES
AND ATHLETES VEGETARIANS.

”-

Cycling and Walking Sections,
Ladies’ Swimming Section,
Socials and Dances in Winter,
Rambles in Summer.

 

ANNUAL SUBSCRIPTION 5/-
‘(Entrance Fee 2/6).

 

Enquiries Invited.
Advice on Diet given.
A CORDIAL INVITATION

is extended to Young Men and Women
_ to Join the Club.

 

Write to HENRY B. AMOS, Hon. Gen. Sec.
v.0, & A.C.. Food Reform Restaurant,
2 & 3, Furnival St... EC. 4. the Head-
quarters ot the Club.

 

Interviews Arranged. '

 

 




 

Ali , Food Reformers

and Humanitarians

ARE INVITED TO JOIN THE

London Vegetarian Socxety.
The Society’s main principles are
Humanity and Health. By becoming
a Member or an Associate you help the
Society to advocate those principles and
you gain the fellowship of kindred

minds.

THE

. .
London Vegetarian Socnety
is a live body : it distributes Literature,
arranges Lectures and Cookery Demon—
strations, organises a Summer Holiday
Centre, engages in a variety of Social
Activities, and is ever ready to spread
the knowledge of its principles. Vege—
tarians may become members ; sym—
pathisers may become associates.

The minimum annual subscription for lVIembers and Associates
isFi‘ve Shillings; for every additional member of tbe same
family, resident at tlze same address, Two Shillings and Six—

' pence. For children under sixteen years of age, t/Ie minimum
annual subscription is One Shilling. Donations are welcomed.

Subscribers of 5s. and over receive, post free, the Society’s
oﬂicial organ,

The . Vegetarian News

A current record of the vegetarian movement, comprising
articles on all aspects of vegetarianism.

Published monthly. Price threepence.

Annual subscription: Three shillings, post free, of the
London Vegetarian Society.

A form of application for members/zip of the London Vegetarian Society is
enclosed in every copy of this Year Book. Furt/zer particulars may be [tad from
, The Secretary, 8, John Street, Adelphi, London, W.C.2.

' - Teleplzone : Gerrard, 879.

 

 

 

 




