(1wa

(i he Universities Federation for Animal Welfare)

284 REGENT’S PARK ROAD,
FINCHLEY, LONDON, N3

I MARCH, I952

 




 

SELECT LIST OF UFAW PUBLICATIONS

The UFAW Handbook on the Care and Management of Laboratory Animals
(London: Balliere, Tindall and Cox, 315. 6d. First published 1947,
reprinted 1949). Chapters on : Law and practice (the rights of laboratory

animals) ; The animal laboratory ; Pests of the animal house ; Housing, .

feeding, anaesthesia, euthanasia, handling and hygiene of the rabbit,
guinea-pig, rat, mouse, vole, hamster, ferret, hedgehog, pigeon, canary,
amphibia, and ﬁsh; Bibliography for other species; Elements of
statistical analysis.

Annual Reports (gratis).

Pamphlets and leaflets on trapping and pest-control. Instructions for Dealing
with Rabbits ; Humane DestruCtion of Rats and Mice ; Canada’s Beavers;
The Countryside of Britain (photographs of trapped animals) ; Blind
Spots; Living on the Farmer’s Charity; Lord Elton’s and Lord Merthyr’s
Speeches in the House of Lords on the Spring Traps Bill.

Other pamphlets and leaflets. Expanding Justice; Expanding Mercy ; The
Inﬂuence of Religion on Man’s Attitude towards Animals ; The Sense of
Pain in Animals ; Animal Welfare and the Teaching of Biology, 6d. ; A

Survey on Importation of Irish Cattle into Scotland, 3d.; Transit of

Animals between Scottish Islands and Mainland, 6d. ; Ugh ! (Learning to
Live with animals) ; Kind Killing (Vinter, Emergency euthanasia for
small animals), 6d. ; How to Befriend Laboratory Animals (Hume), 3d. ;
National Book League Book List, No. 57, Animal Welfare; Electric

Stunning of Pigs (Croft).‘

The UFA W Courier, twice yearly, price 3d; gratis to members.

Papers for children. Lecturettes with pin-up pictures (10in. X 7&in.);
A Few Bird Friends of Ours; Frogs and Toads; British Snakes and
Lizards ; Pigs and Dairy Cows ; Tame Rabbits) ; Animals of the Country-
side; The Sheep; The Dog; The Cat. Cost price, let. each. “Good,
Kind, Lion,” text and coloured illustrations by Fougasse (leaﬂet, gratis.)

Coloured strip posters by Fougasse, cost price 4d. each. 1, “When you ﬁnd

a bird’s nest, don’t touch, don’t stay long, don’t go often.” 2, “It’s all
right, humans don’t feel.” 3, “Don’t let anybody knock the stock about.

How would you like it yourself 2’”
Economy labels by Fougasse. “Utopia——private,” coloured, 50 for 23. 6d.
Gnmmed strip by Fougasse. Two-colour coils lin. wide, 250 it. long, 43. 0d.
Christmas Cards, 6 for 3s. 6d.

Postcards, 12 for 1s.

 

 




 

 

‘A‘ $54“: V‘i‘ﬁ‘!“ . «‘,-.~.-;_. Eur», *- . -..,_ ,

- A .4. CTAf-«a em..." {2 L -

 

OFFICERS 0F UFAW

President :
*Prof. EDWARD HINDLE, M.A., Sc.D., PH.D., F.R.S.,

Trustees :
The Rt. Hon. LORD MACMILLAN 0F ABERFELDY,
P.C., G.C.V.O.. M.A., LL.D., F.R.S.E.
The Rt. Hon. THE EARL 0F MOUNT EDGCUMBE, M.I.C.E.
Group-Captain The Hon. L. J. E. TWISLETON-VVYKEHAM-FIENNES, A.R.I.B.A.
C01. The Rt. Hon. LORD WIGRAM, P.C., G.C.B., G.C.V.O.

Chairman and Honorary Artist:

*KENNE'IH BIRD, C.B.E., B.SC., F.I<.C., F.S.I.A.
(FOUGASSE)

Hon. Treasurer:
_*ROD. M. PEA'r, M.A., F.C.A.

Hon. Parliamentary Secretary:
*T. G. FIELD-FISHER, M.A.

Hon. Adviser on Publicity:
*Lt.-Col. GRAHAM CHERRY, M.A.

H on. Overseas Secretary :
*CECIL SCHWARTZ

Director :
Major C. W. HUME, M.C., B.Sc.

Technical Secretary:
F. jEAN VINTER, MD.

Editor of the UFA W Handbook on the Care and Management of Laboratory Animals:
Prof. A. N. WORDEN, M.A., B.SC., M.R.C.V.S., F.R.I.C.

Business Secretary :
JOSEPHINE M. COZENS

Branch Organizer:
MARGARET P. VVILLIAMS, B.SC.(ECON.)

Chief Clerk:
CONSTANCE E. JEWELL

Accountant:
GLADYS M. ATTKINS

A uditors : -
CHAS. W. ROOKE, LANE & Co., Chartered Accountants

Bankers :
BARCLAYS BANK LTD., 375 Regent’s Park Road, Finchley, London, N.3

* Member of Executive Committee

 

 




 

Vice-Presidents :
Dr.N ..S BARRON, B.Sc., PH.D., M.R.C.V.S. Veterinary Investigation Ofﬁcer,
Univers1ty of Reading.

Prof. Sir FREDERIC C. BARTLETT, C.B.E., M.A., F.R.S. (President of the Cambridge
Branch), Director of the Psychological Laboratory, Cambridge.

Prof. H. BERRY, B..,SC DIP. BACT. LOND., F.R.I.C., PH.C., Dean of the School
of Pharmacy, University of London.

Prof. J. B BUXTON, M. A., F. R. C. V. S., D. V. H. ,Principal of the Royal Veterinary
College, London.

Prof. G. D. HALE CARPENTER, M.B.E., D.M., Oxford University.
Prof. Sir A. M. CARR-SAUNDERS, M.A., Director of the London School of Economics.
Prof. F. A. E. CREW, T.D., M.D., F.R.S.E., F.R.S., University of Edinburgh.

Prof. Sir T. DALLING, M.A., M.R.C.V.S., F.R.S.E., Chief Veterinary Officer,
Ministry of Agriculture.

The RT. HON. LORD ELTON, M.A., Queen’s College Oxford.
' Prof. J. W. EMSLIE, B.Sc., M.R.C.V.S., University of Glasgow Veterinary School.

Prof. A. A. FORSYTH, M.R.C.V.S., D.V.S.M.

Sir RICHARD GREGORY, BART” D. Sc., LL. D., F. R. S, formerly Editor of Nature.

Sir W. R. HALLIDAY, M..,A B.,L.IT LL..D, University of London, Principal of
King’ 5 College.

JULIAN HUXLEY, M.A., D.SC., F.R.S. (formerly Director-General Of U.N.E.S.C.O.).

Prof. Sir JOHN GRAHAM KERR, M.A., LL.D., F.R.S., J.P.

Prof. R. D LAURIE, M..,A University of Wales.

Lt. -Col. A. A. MACFARI ANE- GRIEVE, M. C. T. D. M. A (President of the Durham
Branch), Master of University College, Durham.

Prof. P. B. MEDAWAR, M. A_., D Sc. F. L. S., F. R. S., University College, London.
Prof. W. M. MITCHELL, M.C., T.D., M.B., CH.B., B.Sc., M.R.C.V.S., Principal,
University of Edinburgh, Royal (Dick) School of Veterinary Studies.

GILBERT MURRAY, 0. M., D. C. L. (President of the Oxford Branch).
”Prof. C. W OTTAWAY, PH. D. F..RC. V.S., University of Bristol.
Prof. J. RITCHIE, M.A., D.S‘c., University of Edinburgh.
Prof. ALEX ROBERTSON, M.A., B.Sc., PH.D., M.R.C.V.S., F.R.SE. (President of
University of Edinburgh, Royal (Dick) School of Veterinary Studies Branch).
Prof. Sir E. J. SALISBURY, K.B.E., D.SC., F.R.S., Director, Royal Botanical
Gardens, Kew. ‘
A. THOMSON, M. R...SCV ,University of Glasgow Veterinary School.
Prof. G. TURQUET, D.LIT., M. A., Bedford College, London.
*Prof. E. H. WARMINGTON, M..A, FHRHist. Soc. (President of ULAWS), Birkbeck
College, London.
The Rev. Prof. F. S. VVATERHOUSE, D..,D D..,LIT M.A., Principal of Richmond
College, London.

W. I. W EIPERs, M. R. C. V. S. D. V. S M., Director of Veterinarv Studies, University
of Glasgow, Presiaent of UGAWS (University Of Glasgow Animal Welfare,
Society).

Prof. G. H. \VOOLDRIDGE, F.R.C.V.S., Royal Veterinary College, London.

1W. R. WOOLDRIDGE, PH.D., M.SC., M.R.C.V.S. (Chairman of the Council and
Scientiﬁc Director of the Animal Health Trust).

Prof. J. G. WRIGHT, M.V.SC., F.R.C.V.S. (President of the Liverpool Branch),
School of Veterinary Science, University of Liverpool.

9

1V




Overseas Representatives :

Hon. Secretary for France : DR. PIERRE BLIN
Chef des 'Iravaux d’Anatomie, Ecole Nationale V’étérinaire, Alfort

Hon. Secretary for Germany : DR. Med. Vet. WILMA VON DIJRING
Hon. Secretary for Holland: DR. Med. Vet. E. J. VOﬁTE

Hon. Correspondent for Switzerland : DR. WALTER TIEGEL

Board of Governors:
THE HONORARY OFFICERS
together with

*B. E. ASTBURY, O.B.E.
JUDITH AUSTIN, B.Sc.
JOHN R. BAKER, M.A., D.PHIL D.Sc.
G. C. L. BERTRAM, M.A., PH.D.
*MARY HOLDEN BIRD
RUTH C. BISHEE, M.Sc., F.L.S.
P. A. BROMHEAD, M.A.
*E. P. CARTER, O.B.E., B.A.
B. A. CROSS, B.A., B.Sc., M.R.C.V.S.
Prof. J. W. EMSLIE, B.Sc., M.R.C.V.S.
RICHARD S. R. FITTER, B.Sc.
MARGARET E. FOX, B.Sc.
*HELLE GEORGIADIS, M.Sc.
MARY GUILOR
*Ivv HALDEN, B.A., DIP. in ED.
Prof. H. G. HANBURY, D.C.L.
*H. R. HEWER, M.Sc., A.R.C.S., D.I.C.
*ROSALIND M. T. HILL, M.A., B.LITT., F.R.HIST.SOC.
P. HOLBROOK
A. H. B. KIRKMAN, F.R.C.S.E., L.R.C.P., F.L.S.
*G. C. KNIGHT, F.R.C.V.S.
P. MCCREADY
‘ MARY MILLS, B.SC.
*C. T. MURPHY, M.R.C.V.S.
G. PARR, M.l.E.E.
*MARGARET PATTISON, MA.
BRENDA RITCHIE, B.A.
KATHLEEN RAMSBOTTOW, B.Sc.
‘ *frJ. K. M. SPALDINO, B.M., B.CH., M.R.C.P.
; J. G. SPEED, M.R.C.V.S.
> , "T-H. V. THOMPSON, B.Sc.
W. D. WILLIAMS
S. J. P. WOODS

*Member of Executive Committee
TMember Of Scientiﬁc Sub-Committee

Offices :
Headquarters: 284 Regent’s Park Road, Finchley, LOndon, N.3. (Finchley 1079).

Branch Organizer: 7- Red Lion Square, London, W.C.1. (HOlborn 2762).

J V

 




 

BRANCHES OF UFAW IN THE UNIVERSITIES OF

Cambridge :
President :

PROF. SIR FREDERIC C. BARTLETT, C.B.E., M.A., F.R.S.,
Director Of the Cambridge Psychological Laboratory.

Durham :
' President :

LT.-COL. A. A. MACFARLANE-GRIEVE, M.C., T.D., M.A.,
Master of University College, Durham.

Edinburgh, Royal (Dick) School of Veterinary Studies :
President:
PROF. ALEX. ROBERTSON,
M.A., B.Sc., PH.D., M.R.C.V.S., F.R.S.E.

Glasgow:
(UGAWS, the University of Glasgow Animal Welfare Society)
President:
W. L. WEIPERS, M...RCV.S., D....,VSM
Director of Veterinary Studies, University Of Glasgow.

Liverpool: '
President:
PROF. J. G. WRIGHT, M..VSc., F.R.C.V.S.

London:
(ULAWS, the University of London Animal Welfare Society)
President:
PROF. E. H. VVARMINGTON, M A., F.R.HistSoc.

Oxford:

_ President :

PROF. GILBERT MURRAY, O.M., D.C.L.
Reading:

President:
N. S. BARRON, B.Sc., PH..,D M.....,RCVS
Veterinary Investigation Oﬂicer, University of Reading.

VETERINARY SECTION OF UFAW

President:
PROF. C. W. OTTAWAY, PH.D., F.R..C..VS
(University of Bristol)

. President-Elect .
C. T. MURPHY, M.R.C.V.S.

Student Chairman :
J. G. WATSON (University of GlangW)

Secretary .
MARGARET P. WILLIAMS, B.Sc~.(Econ.)

Vi




THE AIM AND METHODS OF" UFAW

The Aim of UFAW is to promote humane behaviour towards
wild and domestic animals in Britain and abroad so as to reduce
the sum total of pain and fear inﬂicted on animals by man;

This aim will be pursued by

enlisting for that purpose the energies of members of univer-
sities and professional men and women ;

. obtaining and disseminating relevant knowledge ;

helping teachers to provide humane education ;_

co—operating with Government Departments, Parliament, the
Churches, the learned societies and other bodies in action

favourable to humane behaviour ;

pursuing any other charitable activities conducive to the end
in View and appropriate to the character of a university

organization.

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

EXPERIMENTS ON ANIMALS
Rule 3 of the Constitution

The Federation shall not engage on either side
in public controversies relating to the legitimacy of
making scientiﬁc experiments on animals. It shall,
however, seek the aid of biological research workers
and others in fostering in laboratories, in Britain,
and abroad, consideration for the physical and
mental comfort of experimental animals, avoidance
of procedures which involve serious suffering, and
the development of techniques calculated to reduce

discomfort to a minimum.

viii




(2wa

The Universities Federation for Animal Welfare

1. HISTORY.

ULAWS (the University of London Animal Welfare Society) was
founded in 1926 by the present Director with a membership of two,
and soon attracted the collaboration of the present Chairman,
F ougasse, and the support of the veterinary profession; which has
been a dominant factor in the development of the organization. In
1933, after a broadcast appeal for funds, an ofﬁce was rented on
the premises of the University of London Union, and Miss Marjorie
Challen, ex Bedford College, became part-time secretary. By. 1938
there were branches in ten colleges of the University of London, and
in that year membership was extended to universities other than
London, the title was changed from ULAWS to UFAW, and the

ofﬁce was transferred to Gordon House, which is reserved for
educational organizatlons.

 

. . . founded in 1926 . . .

The past Presidents of ULAWS and UFAW have been Sir
Ernest Barker, Sir Frederick Hobday and Sir Peter Chalmers
Mitchell, F .R.S.

 




 

A bomb destroyed the ofﬁce in Gordon House in 1940, but work
was Carried on throughout the bombing of London. Miss Challen,
who was greatly esteemed, died in 1941, but the remains of UFAW
were rescued by Dr. Vinter, who re-established an ofﬁce at the
present address: Since the‘end of the war UFAW’s activities have ‘

' expanded very rapidly.

 

. . . throughout the bombing . . .

2. ORGANIZATION, MEMBERSHIP AND SUBSCRIPTIONS.

Policy is determined by a Board of Governors elected by and
from among the ordinary members.

Ordinary Members must be graduates, undergraduates or mem-
bers of the teaching or administrative staffs of a British university
or university college, or hold such professional qualiﬁcations as the
Executive Committee may accept. They may be branch members
or individual members.

Corresponding Members are persons with analogous qualiﬁca-
tions resident abroad. ,

Associate Membership is open to any person who is in sym-
pathy with-the aims of UF AW. _ ‘

Subscribers of sumssmaller than the membership subscriptions

are welcomed, and will be kept informed of UFAW’s activities.
Branches are now in being in eight universities ; see page 4.

Members who do not belong to one of these branches are registered
at the central ofﬁce as individual members.

Minimum subscriptions for individual members are as
follows: Undergraduates, 15.; other ordinary members, 55.;
associate members, 103. , _

Subscriptions for Branch Members, are determined by the
branches. ' p

All members receive gratis the UFAW Courier, a half—yearly
publication containing informative articles, news of UFAW, and
reviews.




3. ,POLICY.

A scientiﬁc society. UFAW is a scientiﬁc society (see page"
I6), and in View of the international character of science and its
dominant role in modern civilization. this aspect of UFAW’s policy

is important.

To combine the active advocacy of reforms with scientiﬁc detach-
ment in ascertaining facts is not easy but is by no means impossible
The process of choosing a policy and then ﬁnding facts and argu-
ments in support of it has merely to be reversed, so that the facts are
found ﬁrst and policy is then deduced from them and is modiﬁed
from time to time as new facts come to light. In dealing with
matters of fact the question whether an alleged fact is true or false
has to be isolated from the question whether it is congenial or dis-
tasteful, edifying or shocking, favourable or unfavourable to the
policy that is being advocated. It is found that ill-feeling is
disarmed when the truth is ascertained impartially and told without

spite.

 

. improving their lot . . .

Objective and subjective humaneness. There is a deep
cleavage, often unconscious, between animal-protectionists of two
opposite schools. The realist school attends mainly to the feelings
of animals with a View to reducing their sufferings and improving
their lot. The romantic school is more concerned with giving
expression to the distress aroused in human beings by cruelty. By
tradition UFAW belongs emphatically to the former of these

3

 

 




 

schools of thought, and in assessing the relative importance of a
cruel practice is guided by (I) the intensity of the suffering involved;
(2) its usual duration ; (3) the number of animals affected; and
(4) the feasibility of practical reform.

This realistic approach to controversial topics has obviated many
difﬁculties. UF AW counts among its members both vivisectors and
antivivisectionists, Masters of Hounds and opponents of blood
sports, vegetarians and carnivores ; yet it has been free from the
quarrels to which a fondness for animals often gives rise. This
result has been achieved by adopting a realistic or objective
approach both to matters of policy and to matters of fact. It is
necessary to exercise special care in dealing with two particularly
controversial subjects, namely vivisection and ﬁeld sports ; yet as a
scientiﬁc society UFAW must be free to make factual and objective
investigations in any subject which is relevant to its aims.

 

. to which a fondness for animals often gives rise . . .

Experiments on animals. The question whether or not it 15
right to make scientiﬁc experiments on animals has for many years
been a subject of embittered controversy. On one side it is con-
sidered justiﬁable to impose a limited amount of suffering in order
to obtain biological knowledge that can be used in medical or
veterinary practice to relieve a greater amount of suffering ; on the
_ other side it is considered that the end cannot justify the means and
that it is wrong to exact sacriﬁces from one creature for the beneﬁt
of another without the consent of the former.

4




For twenty years UFAW avoided this subject pending the
development of a constructive and non-partisan policy calculated to
be of practical advantage to experimental animals. However, in
1947 a new era in the relations between animal-protectionists and
research workers was inaugurated with the publication of the U F AW
Handbook on the Care and Management of Laboratory Animals,
and a constructive policy has been evolved. This consists in
organizing the wealth of sympathy for animals which exists in the

 

. willing to give practical support . . .

scientiﬁc world, but has hitherto lacked a suitable vehicle for y

. expression (see page 7). A formal statement of UFAW’s policy

will be found on page viii.

UF AW is in touch with some foreign scientists and humani-
tarians who desire that the British practice, suitably modiﬁed, shall
be adopted in their own countries.

Field sports. UFAW counts among its members both oppo-
nents and devotees of ﬁeld sports. It is not prepared to divide its
forces by taking sides on the general principle, since the united
efforts of all its members are needed for other purposes. It does,
however, ofﬁcially favour the recommendations of the Scott Hen-
derson Committee with regard to the rules governing various ﬁeld
sports, and particularly endorses the British Field Sports Society’s
proposal that gun licences should be accompanied by instructions
designed to diminish the reckless wounding of wild mammals and
birds which is now prevalent.

UFAW welcomes the help of any sportsman and any other
person who is willing to give practical support to any of its aims.

. 5

 




 

 

4. FIELD OF INVESTIGATION AND (ACTION.

Trapping and humane pest-control. Shortly after its birth in
1926 ULAWS began to play a leading part in bringing this subject
into the prominence which it now enjoys. UFAW’s present policy
is based on the facts that the great majority of animals trapped in
gin traps in Britain are wild rabbits and owe their fate to the com-
mercial exploitation of. that species in certain counties, and that
the rabbit-trapping industry has led to a vast increase in numbers
I and so is disadvantageous to agriculture, besides involving great
cruelty. . -

In 1935 UFAW promoted the Gin Traps (Prohibition) Bill,
which was defeated in the House of Lords. On the initiative of
UFAW, however, the House did appoint the Mersey Select Com-
mittee in 1936, and on the basis of the ensuing report UFAW
promoted the Bill which passed into law as The Prevention of
Damage by Rabbits Act, 1939, and was intended to strike at the
rabbit-trapping industry. The Scott-Henderson (Home Ofﬁce)
Committee on Cruelty to Wild Animals, which attached great weight
to the factual evidence submitted to it by UF AW, reported in June,

 

. the Bill which passed into law . .

1951 that the gin trap is a ” diabolical instrument which causes an
incalculable amount of suffering,” and recommended that it should
be prohibited within a short time; and in 1951, in collaboration
with other societies, UFAW promoted the Spring Traps Bill, which
was introduced by Lord Elton and defeated. ' The campaign for the
abolition of the gin trap will be continued until success is achieved,

6




' I

The dearth of factual data in the Mersey report prompted UFAW
to promote a research into the ecology of the rabbit ; this was pro-
posed by Major Hume in a paper read to the British Association in

9 1937 and was begun in 1938 by Mr. H. N. Southern, of the Bureau

of Animal Population, but interrupted by the second world war.
Research on humane methods of rodent control received an impetus
from a joint conference held at the Bureau of Animal Population,
Oxford, on 10th May,‘1945, between the staff of the Bureau and
representatives of UFAW, and the research on rabbits was resumed
in 1946 by Miss Winifred Phillips, B.Sc. (now M.Sc.), who worked
for 4% years on behalf of UFAW under the direction of Prof.
Worden in the University College of Wales, Aberystwyth, and
subsequently under the Animal Health Trust and at the Bureau of
Animal Population. As a result the Ministry of Agriculture
launched a trial scheme of rabbit-clearance in Pembrokeshire, with
a scientiﬁc observer (Miss Marie N. Stephens, B.Sc.) appointed by.
UFAW. The results of these investigations will be published in the
scientiﬁc press and were included in the evidence tendered by
UFAW to the Scott Henderson Committee.

Poison is the normal means for destroying rats, and most of the
poisons used are essentially cruel. UF AW is actively studying the
pharmacology of the subject. ~

The use of animals in research and medicine. Study of all
matters relating to the kind treatment of laboratory animals received
an unprecedented impetus from the publication of the UFAW
Handbook on the Care and Management of Laboratory Animals,
already. mentioned. The ﬁrst edition quickly sold out and was
reprinted; every serious laboratory using such animals in Britain
possesses one or more copies, and a number have been sold abroad.
A wave of interest in laboratory animals has arisen in the scientiﬁc
world, and the officers of UP AW are in personal contact with its
active spirits.

The sympathy enjoyed by UFAW is illustrated by the allocation
of a session of the Pathology Section of the British Medical Associa-
tion in 1949 [to papers on the welfare of laboratory animals, read by
Dr. Vinter and Prof. Worden as ofﬁcers of UFAW. Again, letters
protesting against certain cruel experiments carried out abroad were
published in the Lancet; its signatories, all members of UFAW,
included three Fellows of the Royal Society and four licensed

vivisectors.
7

 




 

 

In 1944 the Minister of Health, at UFAW’S request, made a
regulation that in the ﬁnal stage of vaccine-production the animals
used must be killed before the lymph is extracted from the pustules.

In collaboration with the British Veterinary Association (then
N.V.M.A.), and with the eventual support of the Pharmaceutical
Society and the Royal Agricultural Society of England, UFAW
took action through the Parliamentary and Scientiﬁc Committee to
secure official inspection and control of the manufacture, from
living animals, of sera and vaccines for veterinary use. An order
for this purpose was promised by the Ministry of Agriculture in
1949 and will be issued when the ofﬁcial machinery has had time to
operate. '

The Veterinary Section of UF AW (see page vi) was
inaugurated in 1950. Its objects are to advise UFAW on the
veterinary aspect of the welfare of animals, to represent to it the
profession’s attitude to such problems, to bring UFAW’s interests
before the profession, and to recruit veterinary members of UF AW.
At its inaugural meeting at the Conference of the Association of
Veterinary Students in 1951 a paper on “ Pain and Anaesthesia ”
was given by the Student Chairman, Mr. W. D. Williams (now
M.R.C.V.S.).

Farm animals. UFAW also keeps in touch with a number of
humane and progressive farmers. The Wye College Branch has
under revision a pamphlet on the Humane Treatment of Farm
Animals drawn up by its predecessor in 1937.

The Glasgow Branch (UGAWS) appointed a sub—committee to
follow cattle from Irish farms to their destinations in Scotland in
1948, and another to survey the transport of animals from the
Scottish islands to the mainland in 1949. Reports on these investi-
gations have been published and have attracted much attention.

In 1928 the President and Hon. Secretary of ULAWS acted as
Chairman and Hon. Secretary of a committee set up by the Board.
of Deputies of British Jews to investigate the humane Weinberg
Casting Pen for use in Jewish slaughter.

8




Electrocution, electric stunning and curarization. It is known
from human experience that electric stimulation can produce either
instant unconsciousness or intense pain, according to circumstances,
and under some conditions it can paralyse a person without ren-
dering him unconscious. UFAW has long stood, almost but not
quite alone, for the View that electrocution and electric stunning
should not be practised without ascertaining the requisite conditions
and ensuring that these conditions shall be fulﬁlled. Moreover,
electric anaesthesia would have great humanitarian advantages
provided that it could be safeguarded from the risk of causing
paralysis without loss of sensation. After a preliminary investiga-
tion carried out by Mr. E. O. Longley, B.Sc., M.R.C.V.S., at the
Burden Neurological Institute through the kindness of Prof. Golla,
Miss Phyllis Croft, B.A., Ph.D., M.R.C.V.S., was appointed
UFAW Research Fellow under Dr. Derek Richter at the Neuro-
psychiatric Research Centre, Cardiff. At both these institutions a
vast body of knowledge gained from the electrical treatment of
human beings is available.

Muscular immobility, whether caused by electric shock or by
drugs such as curare, makes the expression of pain impossible and
confuses the eye reﬂexes which are used in testing the depth of
ordinary anaesthesia. It is therefore essential to ﬁnd means for
ascertaining the presence and absence of feeling in paralysed
animals, and Dr. Croft has already put in a good deal of hard work
on the subject. Some results were reported in a paper read by her to
the Society of Experimental Biology in January, I952, and will be
made public in due course. A leaﬂet on the electric stunning of pigs
has been published. .

The British Veterinary Association has recently appointed a
sub-committee to study the electrocution of cats and dogs. The
research on this subject so long desired by UFAW will now be
carried out by Dr. Croft in associatiOn with this sub-committee, on
which the R.S.P.C.A. also is represented.

Animals abroad. UFAW is seriously concerned about the
treatment of animals in the majority of foreign countries and
believes that the international character of science and learning can
provide an effective channel for propagating a more progressive
code of behaviour.

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

UFAW now has hon. secretaries in Germany, HOlland and
France, and an hon. correspondent in Switzerland. In each case
the honorary ofﬁcer is a veterinary surgeon of the country in ques-
tion who has attended a UFAW Summer School and whose views
and methods are those of UFAW. It is at present too early to say
how these foreign extensions will develop, but in Germany a
UFAW-like society has already come into being.

With the co—operation of distinguished biologists in the Univer-
sity of Michigan there has been formed in the U.S.A. an Animal
Welfare Institute which studies the treatment of laboratory animals
on lines inspired by UFAW. Like the latter it has to face criticism
from excited partisans of both sides, but it will, no doubt, be
supported by the majority of humane biologists.

Whales and seals. In the Antarctic whaling season of 1,946-
1947, Dr. Harry Lillie was surgeon with one of the whaling ﬂeets
and was struck by the cruelty and waste involved in the use of the
explosive harpoon. After a UF AW lecture by him at University
College, London, in October, I948, which was attended by eminent
authorities on whaling, a report on methods, and especially the
technical requirements for electrocuting whales, was drawn up by
UFAW and circulated among experts in the British Commonwealth
and the U.S.A. I The General Electric Company, Ltd., were brought
into touch with United Whalers Ltd., and experimental work has
been successfully prOsecuted, mainly through the driving force of
_ Sir Vyvyan Board, Chairman of the Company, who went to the

Antarctic to carry out trials himself. The present position is that a
heavy electric harpoon can be used with the existing Svend F oyn
guns now, and a ballistically superior light harpoon, with a specially-
designed gun, is under development. The same electrical equip-
ment will serve for either harpoon. When equipment of sound
technical design is used the system has great commercial and con-
servational advantages besides being humane, whereas the
traditional method involves very prolonged and severe suffering.

In 1949 Dr. Lillie was engaged as surgeon in the sealing ﬂeet
from Newfoundland, and found similarly cruel and wasteful
methods in use upon the harp seals (to be distinguished from the .
Alaskan“ fur seals, which are rationally cropped under reasonably
humane conditions).

10




v

Regulation of wild animal populations. UFAW has long
been concerned at the uncontrolled conﬂict between various interests
connected with wild animals, viz., economic and commercial in-
terests (exploitation, control of pests, importation of exotic Species),
amenities (national parks, rural amenities, ﬁeld sports), cultural
interests (zoology, nature study) and humanitarian requirements.
The idea which eventuated in the establishment in 1949 of the Nature
Conservancy under the Privy Council arose in 1936 in a discussion
between the Director of UFAW and the Director of the
Bureau of Animal Population. UFAW organized a meeting at the
University of London in 1938 under the title “ Man’s Relation to
Nature and his Response,” put forward a scheme for a “ Depart-
ment of Fauna and Flora,” and conducted a widespread propa-
ganda. In. 1944 the Parliamentary and Scientiﬁc Committee
circulated a UFAW memorandum on the subject and UFAW then
joined hands with, and entrusted further action to, the British Eco-
logical Society, which had developed similar views. The result may
be regarded as satisfactory in principle ; the Conservancy consists
of ﬁrst-rate ecologists, and although, contrary to UFAW’s original
desire, it has not been charged with research on humane pest— —,control
UFAW itself has been able to assume that duty.

 

. importation of exotic species . . .

In connection with the trapping and hunting of otters, the
Home Ofﬁce Committee on Cruelty to Wild Animals recommended
a research in the habits of those animals.- UFAW has taken the
initiative in the setting up of an authoritative committee for the
purpose with Dr. Hindle and Mr. Richard Fitter as Chairman and
Hon. Secretary respectively.

11

 

 




 

 

 

 

Philosophy and religion. The Cartesian theory of the robot
animal has been combated by Dr. John R. Baker, of the Depart-
ment of Zoology, Oxford, in a pamphlet, The Scientiﬁc Basis of
Kindness to Animals, by Dr. G. C. Grindley, of the Psychological
Laboratory, Cambridge, in The Sense of Pain in Animals, recently
reprinted as a pamphlet, and by Major C. W. Hume in chapter I
of the UFAW Handbook. , The philosophy underlying UFAW’s
aims stands in need, however, of a more extensive and systematic
study. ‘* ‘

Prof. Harold Smith’s article on “ The Inﬂuence of Religions on
Man’s Attitude towards Animals ” has been reprinted, and a paper
was read by Major Hume at the World Congress of Faiths in 1951
(see also page 17).

 

 

 

. . Expanding Justice . . .

Miscellaneous topics. A number of other subjects have
occupied UFAW’s attention, and are listed in a folder entitled
Expanding justice, which is available gratis.

5. MEANS OF ACTION.

Student activities. UFAW has branches in eight universities
already, and in other universities prOspectively. Branch activities
comprise lectures, discussions, cinematograph displays, social func-
tions, visits to places of interest, annual conferences, and other
occasions for bringing the aims of UFAW to the notice of students.
A Summer School was held at Brympton d’Evercy before the war
and at the Field Study Centre, F latford Mill, each year from 1947
to 1950. In 1951 it was held at Barford, near Stratford—on-Avon.

12




The Glasgow Veterinary College Branch has investigated the
transport of cattle to Scotland, and the Royal Veterinary College
Branch (London) has prepared a ﬁlm on the care of the cat. The
Oxford and Durham branches have organized exhibits at their
County agricultural shows. Some branch members give lectures in
schools and clubs. ’ The Wye College Branch is preparing a ﬁlm on

the bull (see also page 8).
A small library was formed before the war but was severely

depleted by bombing. It is now being replenished and gifts of
books which are relevant and informative will be welcomed.

Humane education of the young is regarded as of primary
importance, and many teachers make use of UFAW’s publications
and ﬁlms for this purpose, but UFAW does not form junior
branches or admit children as ordinary members. It is,
however, afﬁliated to the [Annual Conference of Educational Asso-
ciations, and has on occasion lent its platform there to the Royal
Society for the Protection of Birds, the Royal Society for the Pre-
vention of Cruelty to Animals, and the Society for the Protection of
Animals in North Africa. ‘

 

Humane education of the young . . .

Lectures are given in'schools and clubs to some extent by both
senior and student members of UFAW, and it is hoped that an
increasing number of knowledgeable lecturers will volunteer for this
work. '

Publications. An important publication, the UFAW Handbook
on the Care of Laboratory Animals, is referred to on page 7.

’13

 




 

 

The UFAW Courier, published twice a year, is a journal con-
taining short informative articles, reviews of books, and other
matters of interest to members.

Before the *war UFAW published ﬁve volumes entitled The
Animal Year-Book and containing information (as distinct from
propaganda) bearing upon animal welfare, which was then diﬂicult
to obtain. Volumes I, 2, 3 and 4 are out of print, but a few copies
are available on loan. The series has been discontinued and its
place is taken by the UFAW Courier and a series of octavo pam-
phlets sold at a low price to the public but circulated free to
members and other suitable recipients.

During the war a number of lecturettes intended for delivery to
evacuee children were published. Each lecturette is accompanied
by pin—up pictures of the animals dealt with. The demand has been
very satisfactory and the series will be. continued in the form of
lecture notes for teachers.

Publicity. The Press, including The Times, has been generous
in ﬁnding room for letters and other communications from UFAW.
Nature, the Lancet, the Veterinary Record, and the Conntryman
have been particularly helpful. Press correspondence is watched
and is entered into when useful contributions can be made.

 

 

 

 

 

 

. . . pin-up pictures . . .

UFAW’s propaganda publications, which differ from its purely
informative literature in that persuasion is superimposed on factual
statements, mainly take the form of octavo leaﬂets distributed
gratis, and of posters, Christmas cards and gummed strip designed

by F ougasse.
14

 

 




 

 

UFAW’s leaﬂets are sent by post to many persons who might
usefully read them, in addition to some 5,000 subscribers. Three
coloured posters designed by Fougasse have been extensively ex-
hibited. Some 2% million economy labels, over two hundred
thousand Christmas cards and thousands of rolls of gummed strip,
all illustrated by Fougasse, have been sold to date and are believed
to have had an appreciable effect in humanizing public opinion.

a» it

Personal contacts“. . .

The Royal Agricultural Society of England allocated excellent
corner sites to UFAW at the Royal Shows in 1948 and 1949, and
UFAW has been represented by Oxford and Durham branch mem—
bers at their County shows, but this activity makes heavy demands
on resources and is in abeyance for the present.

Personal contacts. It is largely by means of personal contacts
that UFAW’s ideals have gained adherents. Much of the ofﬁcers’
work is done in this way, and members are urged to make those
ideals known in their own environments. (It is suggested, however,
that not more than IO per cent of any conversation should be
devoted to the subject unless by consent.)

Religion. UFAW has twice organized meetings at which Roman
Catholic, Anglican, Free Church and Jewish speakers spoke from a
common platform. Its annual conference customarily includes a
brief religious service. It has published a leaﬂet, Expanding Mercy,
relating to the Christian aspect of its aims, and on the joint initiative
of UFAW and the Scottish S.P.C.A. the National Assembly of the
Church of Scotland in 1948 made an ofﬁcial delivery recognizing
kindness to animals as a Christian duty. (See also page 12.)

15

 




 

Parliament. UFAW is afﬁliated to the Parliamentary and
Scientiﬁc Committee (consisting of Peers, Members of Parliament,

 

. . . Parliamentary . . .

and representatives of science and technology), and members of
UFAW played a part in founding that Committee’s progenitor, the
Parliamentary Science Committee. UFAW is represented at its
meetings and hascollaborated usefully with it. (See also pages
6-8 and II.)

6. EXTERNAL "RELATIONS.

Scientiﬁc. UFAW is afﬁliated to the Parliamentary and
Scientiﬁc Committee, is a Corresponding Society of the British Asso-
ciation for the Advancement of Science, and is afﬁliated to the
South-Eastern Union of Scientiﬁc Societies and the Association of
Special Libraries and Information Bureaux '(ASLIB). Several of its
ofﬁcers are members of the Association for the Study of Animal
Behaviour, of which one (Prof. Hindle) is a Past President, and
another (Prof. Worden) is an Hon. Secretary. Its relations with the
Bureau of Animal Population, Oxford, and with the British Eco—
logical Society, are cordial (see page 2). It has been accorded

 

. . . Study of Animal Behaviour . .

facilities by the British Medical Association (see page 10) and has
received much help from the Zoological Society of London.
UF AW helped to found the West Wales Field Society and is in good
relations with the Council for the Promotion of Field Studies.

16

 




 

UFAW collaborates closely with the Animal Health Trust and
is in friendly contact with the Laboratory Animals Bureau of the
Medical Research Council. - It includes many veterinarians and
biologists among its members and makes use of their advice.

With animal-protection societies. UFAW collaborates with the
K.S’.P.C.A.’ and other animal-protection societies which pursue a
realistic policy. It has a particularly close liaison with the Scottish
S.P.C.A., the Ulster S.P.C.A., the Schweitzerische Gesellschaft zur
F orderung des Tierschutzes, the Council of Justice for Animals, and
the Canadian Association for the Protection of Fur-Bearers. Dr.
Vinter has long been chairman of the Society for the Protection of
Animals in North Africa, and was for two years chairman of the
Conference of Animal Welfare Societies. On the other hand,
UFAW recognizes that sympathy can be alienated and reforms
hindered by injudicious enthusiasts, and while it looks on
all animal-lovers with a friendly eye its practical collaboration is
directed towards realistic policies that promise effective advantages
to animals.

 

. . iujudicious enthusiasts . . .

With other organizations. UFAW is afﬁliated to the Con-
ference of Educational Associations, the National Federation of
Women’s Institutes, and the National Council of Women (for
whose Humane Treatment of Animals Sectional COmmittee it has

provided two past hon. secretaries, Miss Challen and Mrs. Rams-

bottom, and two present Vice-Chairmen, Dr. Vinter and Mrs.
Ramstttom). It maintains good relations with the School Nature
Study Union, the National Federation of Young Farmers’ Clubs,
and the Royal Agricultural Society of England.

1 17 ‘_

 




 

 

 

7. FINANCE.

The subscriptions of ordinary members furnish only a small
proportion of the requisite income, the bulk of which is contributed .
from a wider ﬁeld. As a result of war-time economies, the receipt
of a number of legacies, and broadcast appeals UFAW's ﬁnancial
position is now sound, but activities and expenditure are increasing
rapidly and commitments have become very heavy. '

At the end of each ﬁnancial year UFAW’s available resources
are divided into (I) a reserve equal to estimated recurrent expendi-
ture for one year, (2) a modest working balance sufﬁcient to avoid
overdrafts. and (3) a Special Projects Fund which is expendible on
non-recurrent or short-term undertakings. Legacies are ordinarily
credited to the Special Projects Fund, so that benefactors may be
assured that sums bequeathed to UFAW will not be fruitlessly
hoarded. - a

’ UFAW is recognized as a charity for income-tax purposes, and
many Subscribers sign a seven-year covenant; this arrangement
enables UF AW to recover income tax and thus nearly doubles the
effective value of the subscriptions. Additional covenanted sub-
scriptions are urgently needed. ’

 

In view of the well-known abuses to which charitable appeals
are subject, it may be well to state that honorary duties are
discharged on a genuinely honorary basis, out-of—pocket expenses
refunded are at most those actually incurred, salaries are kept within
very modest limits, and accounts audited by a well-known ﬁrm
of chartered accountants are published annually.

18

 




 

 

 

 

remind your

animal-loving
friends that

0wa

(The Universities Federation for Animal Welfare)
284 Regent’s Park Road, Finchley, London, N. 3

could do more to foster '

 

 

 

 

 

/,;L\
4% A?

a right attitude towards dumb Creatures

if it had more money to spend.

O@®@

raisin}: You

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   




 

Printed by Diemer & Reynolds Ltd., Eastcotts Road, Bedford

 




