IS A “WILD”

.. In these days all thoughtful people are convinced that it is a brutal act to cat

. a wild bird and imprison it for the rest of its life, but many do not realise that the
Word “ Wild ” applies to many other birds besides those usually classed as such, 2163.,
our oWn English songsters. The general idea appears to be that the tropical and foreign
birds too often seen in captivity are all cage—bred. This is a grave mistake. Only a

very small proportion are cage-bred, for the very good reason that many species will
not breed in captivity. V I

WHAT ABOUT THE BIRDS IMPORTED FROM TROPICAL COUNTRIES?

Do we realise that these birds, as free in their own homes as our English birds
in our country, are caught in circumstances of terror, packed tightly together, stowed
away for voyages of many weeks, and that the sufferings thus endured cause the death
of a large prOportion before the end of their journey ? Then they have to endure not
only the miseries of captivity, but the rigours of our climate. They are cheap to catch,

5/— per 100 to the bird catcher, but as so many die err route they are expensive to
buy over here. ’

Let us consider what Capt. Rattigan, the expert adviser on the treatment of
foreign birds, replied to a correspondent in C age Birds. —-——

“ Still, it is just as well to remember a fact in this connection which cannot be
seriously disputed, and that is, that of all the common parrots imported at least 70%

' to 80% die within a few weeks of arrival, and in the vast majority of cases from bowel
trouble.”

‘

Let us now turn to the evidence of an eye-witness of birds packed in Brazil for
the English market. Amongst other horrors he describes :—

“ Two crates, 3ft. by 1ft. by lft., each containing 30 Blue-bearded Jays
(cyanocorax cyanopoque).

“ Their long tails were all broken, in many cases to mere stumps. Some of them
were pecking in a desultory way at the dead body of another that remained at the
, bottom of the incredibly ﬁlthy cage. The man in charge, Italian-German—Brazilian,

called , promised to remove dead body, but ﬁnally assured me that the others
had eaten it ! ”

“ Two cratesof similar dimensions each containing 35 all—green Parakeets (conurus
terica). There may have been 36 or 37 of these, but they were so frightened that I did
not like to handle them, and did not know the exact numbers himself.”

DO NOT ENCOURAGE THIS INFAMOUS TRADE—REFUSE TO KEEP CAGED
BIRDS.

Copies of this leaﬂet may be obtained gratis from
MISS M. BRADISH,
R.S.’P.C.A. CAGED BIRD POSTER FUND,

. 95 PARK ROAD, CHISWICK, W. 4.
Brand & 00.: Printer: Chilwick.W.4 , P'T'o.

 

 




M.
I ' 7%, .. _-.
, . , > '. ' x: .. - . \._‘. . r: '

‘L T233“

”El—rim OBTAINED FROM THE R.S.P.C.A. CA r“: ~: -" i" osmiz‘w‘a
‘ - » ‘{'* FUND. ’

—-—_

COLOURED POSTERS.
(4d. each)

.(1) The Crime of the Cage.

(2) His freedom is in your handsmgive it to him !

(3) From the Jungle to the Circus.

UNCOLOURED POSTERS.

(1) The Animals’ Petition (illustrated), 3d. each.

(Hanging scroll.)

(2) Living Luggage (menagerie animals), free.

LEAFLETS.

To Lovers of Wild Birds.
HOW to free your Caged Wild'Bird.
3/— per 100.
1/3 per 50.
The Farmers’ Friends.
(Our Friends with Wings.

In Prison for Life.
Our Birds.

Robbing the Birds.

1/6 per 100.
1/6 per 100.

4d. per dozen.

l/— per 50.

3/- per 100.

LEAFLETS AT l/- PER 100.

What is a Wild Bird P

Bird Lovers and Bird Fanciers.

The Caged Birds (verses by “ Tomfool ”).

Little Child to Little Bird. 6d. per 100.
(for little children verses).

Lord Howard of Penrith on Club Row.

A Plea for-"the Bird.

The Wiles and Cruelties of the Bird Catcher.

Caged Animals in Shops.

Mr. John Galsworthy on Zoos (Letter to
Liverpool Post and M ercary).

The Slave Trade in Birds.

Caged Birds and the Weather.

COLOURED POSTCARDs.——The Crime of the Cage.
POSTCARD VERSES.~——All Prisoners and Captives (verses).

l/— per dozen.
6d. per dozen.

FREE LEAFLETS.

Pet or Prisoner P
Our Pets.
Are Circus Animals happy P (children).

“ Warning ” Leaﬂet (the Bird Act of 1925).
Performing Animals.
Animal Performers.

N .B.— C arrz'age charged 0% all literature sent.

 




