The Ofﬁcial Journal of, the League for
the Prohibition of Cruel Sports,

101, Chandos House, Palmer Street,
Westminster, S.W.l.

Phone: VICTORIA 8496.

 

 

VOL. VIII. NO. 5.

MAY,

MONTHLY: 2/6 per annum,
post free.

I934. 2d.

 

CONTENTS.

PAGE
VIEWS AND NEWS, BY THE EDITOR 34.

ANNUAL MASSACRE OF BABY BOOKS, BY MRS
T. S. HAWKINS 35

IS IT CRUEL? BY HENRY S. SALT 36

PAGE
HUNTED: A SKETCH, BY KATHLEEN BUTLER 37
MRS. DRAKOULES’ MEMORIAL 38

REPORTS OF MEETINGS; NOTTINGHAM, BRISTOL,
ETC.

Tée Editor accept: 720 respomz'éilz'ty for opinion: expressed 1'72 Iigrzea’ artie/eI.

 

 

VISCOUNT MORLEY, O.M.—“I am quite sure that the time will come when
people will read of the wanton cruelties which we now inﬂict in Sport with
the same wonder and abhorrence with which we now read of the bloody
orgies of savage tribes and the cruel scenes of the Roman amphitheatre.”

 

 

 

 

 




Page Thirty—four

CRUEL SPORTS

VHHVS AAU)

May, I934

DHHVS

By The Editor, HENRY B. AMOS.

Obituary

Again we have to mourn the passing of several
of our stalwarts—Rev. Dr. Robert, F. Horton,
Dr. Philip G. Peabody, of America, and Rev.
Basil Bourchier.

Dr. Horton was a friend of the League from
the beginning and one of its ﬁrst Vice-Presidents.
He opposed all cruel sports, he said, “ because
he was a Christian.” He did not come much
into the limelight in our Cause, but his whole
philosophy of life and his preaching and teach-
ing were coloured by the recognition of the rights
of animals and man’s duties to them and to him-
self.

“ My whole soul,” he once wrote to the
Editor, ‘ revolts against the unnecessary
cruelties perpetrated in the name of Sport.”

Dr. Philsz Peabody

Dr. Peabody was perhaps the greatest globe-
‘trotting humanitarian of all time. He had
crossed» the Atlantic 145 times, and it was once
said of him that he was as much at home in
London, Paris, Vienna, Geneva, Madrid, Oslo,
and Copenhagen, as at Boston, U.S.A.-, where
he lived—when he could. Dr. Peabody detested
cruelty and may truly be said to have been a
missionary of the eternal values of justice and
compassion to all living things. He was born
in New York but died in Denmark, on February
25 this year, at the age of 77.

Dr. Peabody was a most generous supporter of
the League in its early days, largely through the
good ofﬁces of Mr. _Ernest Bell, who usually
helped him in allocating his bounties in this
country.

Rev. Basil Bourchier

Here was another star who shone brightly and
consistently on our side, and did not mince his
words when attacking the major cruelties and
debasements of cruel sports. Rev. Basil Bour-
chier was a challenging eloquent speaker and be-
came a considerable inﬂuence in forcing forward
some of the more lagging Societies in our midst
yvith which he became closely connected.

* In a memorable message to one of our public
meetings in 1927 he wrote to the Editor: “ God
speed you in your splendid protest against the
intolerable travesties upon the honourable name
of Sport. Originally, this word meant ‘ Fun,’

nowadays, it stands for Murder.”

Mrs. Drakoules’ Memorial

It is not often that we have the opportunity
.of expressing in such a happy fashion our grati-

tude to any of our pioneers as we have 111 the
Mrs. Drakoules Memorial Fund noted on another
page. For nearly ﬁfty years this good lady de—
voted time and money, as well as her great
charm and abilities, to promoting the Cause of
Animals. For nearly forty years the writer has
known, at ﬁrst hand, of the splendour of these
efforts, which were maintained till near the close
of her life last year.

We shall honour ourselves in sharing in erect-
ing the Bird-Brah-Fountain, decided upon, with
its constant flow of water, and we invite all
who feel they would like to honour the memory
of such a devoted worker, to help by sending a
gift, no matter how small, to the address given.

The Summer Campaign

The approach of summer with its prospect of
long, sunny days, turns our thoughts to the
manifold pleasures out-of-doors which can only be
obtained during this season of the year. The
Executive Committee suggest that during the
summer months our campaign should be promul-
gated and our funds augmented by the holding
of Garden Parties, Open-Air Meetings, or Fetes,
and they would be exceedingly grateful for the
co-operation of members and others who can help
in any of these ways. \Ye would gladly send one
or more speakers to these functions. In this
manner would the Cause be advanced during a
season when public meetings and debates are not
usually held.

The Committee are gratiﬁed with the result, so
far, of their Appeal made in the Annual Report
to increase subscriptions in view of the lack of
legacies. As, however, the beneﬁcial results of
our campaign against cruel sports becomes more
and more evident, it becomes increasingly
necessary to build up a financial reserve so that
we have the means of rapid attack when

necessary.

In connection with Garden Parties and other
outdoor functions various means have been suc—
cessfully used by members to collect money, as,
for example, the “ Mile” of Pennies, also a.
little compact Boa-rd, known as a Punch-Board.
The latter can be conveniently carried in the
pocket or handbag, and there are a number of
cash prizes. If 500 members each took one of
these Boards our income would be stabilized for
the year. A little effort each day by these means
would greatly widen the scope and results of our
appeal, and the secretary will be pleased to supplv
full particulars on application. b

 

 

 
 
  
 
   
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
  
 
   
 
   
  
 
  
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
 

;

 




 

CDUDUJP—h-dl

rump—aw.

ILI(D(D(DH-,

(—Y ;-'-I U) k” ‘U LU v UH

‘ V‘— V‘ﬁv—erv» .

‘ v-v~—‘V'

l

 

 

 

May, 1934

 

CRUEL SPORTS

 

Page Thirty—seven

 

 

A SKETCH

H UN TED

[Reproduced from “ The Christian World

It was such a bright, clear day, not too cold,
and with no wind to stir the crisp air. The
clearness had in it something of the hardness
of an early summer morning, so that the leaﬂess
trees stood out dark and tangled against the pale
pearly sky. The sun was a hazy gold, and the
ﬁelds, though sombre and grey rather than green,
had a clear-cut beauty about them. It was on
such a morning that one felt it was so very
nearly spring, and yet it was not quite.

Merle felt the freshness and softness in the
air, and as she emerged from the copse she
let out a whoop of joy. From the trees behind
her a voice shouted in reply.

She dodged, going back on her own track,
vanishing behind convenient trees, crouching
behind banks, skirting ﬁelds. She would show
that top—heavy cousin of hers that she was as
good as he, and that he could not catch her and
administer the threatened (albeit well-deserved)
ch a stisement .

The exhilarating joy of the chase ﬁlled her;
she was cunning, she bid and listened to him
as he ran past her, panting. Crouching in a
ditch, she heard a new sound—musical, faint, yet
ﬁtting to this clear and lovely morning. The
hounds in full cry, swept across a ﬁeld in the
distance. Merle sprang out of the ditch and on
to the bank to watch them, regardless of the
fact that she was visible to her own pursuer.
Exultantly she listened for a minute, thinking
half-consciously of the joy she had felt in the
chase when she was eluding her cousin. Yet
somehow that had been different. She had not
been running for her life, but for the fun of the
thing, matching her wits against his with only a
small price to pay if she were caught. It had
been pure sport to her, as it was for the hounds
streaming across the distant meadow. And sud—
denly, from exultation, her mood changed.

The boy sprang .up the bank beside her, paus-
ing a moment, puzzled because she did not run.

“ Listen!” she commanded.

“ Great!” He whooped his excitement, for-
getting that a moment ago he and Merle had
been enemies. “ Come on, they’re coming this
way. Let’s follow.”

“No!” Like the crack of a whip Merle’s
answer came. “ Beast!” she cried passionately.
“ Think of the fox, you little beast. He won’t
get away, I know he won’t.”

The boy looked at her in amazement. There
were tears in her eyes, and she stamped her
foot at him.

” of February 22nd, by permission.]

“Don’t be silly,” he said uncomfortably.
“ It doesn’t matter all that. Let’s go back to
the house. I’m awfully hungry, and I know
mother’s baking this morning, and we might
sneak a cake or two. Come on.”

* 96 96 96

RODEO

The announcement that a Rodeo was to be
staged at the White City, London, in June,
created consternation in many minds, for it meant
that another strenuous attempt was to be made
to fasten Rodeo on the country as a ‘ new
national ” sport.

Fortunately, the hostility with which the
announcement was greeted in the press and by
humanitarians generally, has so stirred the coun-
try that the Bill, sponsored by Sir Robert Grower,
and supported by Lt.—Col. Moore, Mr. Groves and
others, has passed its third reading and received
the blessing of the Government

We are delighted at the thought that another
lodeo in England seems an impossibility. And
yet, whilst the spirit of “ blood ” sports exists,
and especially as exempliﬁed by that scandalous
iniquity, hare-hunting at Eton College, any de-
basement in the way of cruelty to animals is
possible. In Rodeo the cowboy takes his life in
his hands; at Eton it is a case of twenty or more
dogs with probably forty or ﬁfty boys chasing a
harmless defenceless little creature like a bare
for hours and to the death for fun.

No! Rodeo is not dead. It is only scotched.
It. lives and ﬂourishes in hunting to sere and
poison the souls of our young people everywhere
and so help prepare them for that supremest of all
iniquities, war of man with his brother man.

The chief provisions of the Bill are :————

No person shall promote, produce, exhibit, or
take part in any public contest, public perform-
ance, or public exhibition which consists of

(a) Throwing, casting, roping, or catching with

ropes or other appliances any animal; or

(b) \Vrestling, ﬁghting, or struggling with any

animal; or

(c) Riding, or attempting to ride, any untam-

able or uncontrollable animal.

u u \I
..- ..‘ -
.u 1\ )4

Record Fox-Kills

The Quorn Hounds have had a record kill this
season—nearly 1‘20 foxes.
Daily Mail.

 

 

 

 

 




 

CRUEL

SPORTS May, 1934

 

Page Thirty—eight

 

Mrs. DRA KO ULES’ MEMORIAL

A strong desire having been expressed by lead-
ing humanitarian workers that a Memorial should
be promoted to the late Mrs. Alice Marie
Drakoules, a few of her old friends and colleagues
desire to commend the proposal to animal-
lovers generally.

For nearly ﬁfty years Mrs. Drakoules was
both an ardent worker and generous supporter
of the humanitarian movement. About 1887 she
formed a branch of the Band of Mercy at her
residence, at VVeybridge, where distinguished
guests lectured. Four years later, at her Lon-
don home, 14, Park Square East, Regents Park,
was founded the Humanitarian League, of
which she became the Hon. Treasurer and was
recognised as a strenuous worker on the Com-
mittee for over twenty years. Up to 1932, she
held “ At Homes ” at which prominent authori-

 

MRS. DRAKOULES.

ties lectured on humanitarian and allied sub-
jects, including Cruel Sports. Her home thus
became a famous centre, radiating progressive
and anti~cruelty principles both at home and
abroad. She, herself, twenty years ago, when
travelling with her husband and co-worker, Dr.
Platon Drakoules, addressed meetings in Egypt,
Greece, Turkey and Roumania, thus inaugurat-
ing a movement which led to anti-cruelty legis-
lation in these countries.

It has been decided that the Memorial should
take the form of a Bird-Bath-Fountain, with
drinking trough for dogs, near her residence at
Regents Park, a spot now so sacred to humani-
tarian memories and activities.

A subscription List has been opened, and re-
mittances (no matter how small) will be grate—
fully received. Cheques and money orders
should be drawn to the order of Samuel Hop-

good Hart, Hon. Treasurer, crossed Barclays-
Bank, Ltd, and addressed to Henry B. Amos,
the Hon. Secretary, “ Mrs. Drakoules Memorial
Fund,” Hamilton Lodge, Kings Park Road,
Bournemouth.

The Appeal is signed by, among others: The-
Duchess of Hamilton and Brandon, Monsieur D.
Caclamanos (Greek Minister), Henry S. Salt,
Esq., Miss Lind-Af-Hageby, Mrs. C. Despard,
Miss Charlotte E. \V'oods, David Gow, Esq., etc.,

* 96 96 *

IMPORTED FOXES

Sin—Mr. Fitzwilliam, of the British Field
Sports Society, describes the methods used to-
kill foxes in a wild part of \Yales. A fox-shoot
carried out with the aid of a pack of hounds he
inaccurately'describes as “hunting the coun-
try,” but let that pass. He conveniently omits
to mention that conditions in most parts of Eng-
land where hunting is possible are so different
that the chief problem of the fox-hunter is how
to get enough foxes to hunt. I quote from
Clapham’s “Foxes, foxhounds and fox-hunting,”
“ There was and is still some demand for healthy
cubs and adult foxes for re-stocking purposes,
and if the consequent supply had been conﬁned
to foxes from the non-hunting districts of Scot-
land and other parts of Great Britain, we should
have been spared the epidemics of mange that

have so often broken out.”

Mrs. M. C. Chapman in

Reading Mercewy, March 17.

* * *

The R.S.P.C.A.

Sir,—How many members of the L.P.C.S. are-
members of the R.S.P.C.A.? And will they not
move the R.S.P.C.A. to amend its name by in-
serting “Some” between “Cruelty” and
“ Animals”? This would end the impudent
farce of the R.S.P.C.A. prosecuting boys for
hunting cats when it refuses to prosecute fox-
hunting people for doing exactly the same sort
of thing—FRANCIS SPRING RICE, Comdr.,
R.N., retd.

* * * 9(-

H UN TIN G A TM OSPHERE

“Then a former naval ofﬁcer was charged at
Westminster yesterday with obtaining money by
false pretences. and with theft, he pleaded that
he had had a bad bringing up.

“I spent my youth in an atmosphere of
hunting and yachts,” he said.

The magistrate said it was the most pitiful
case he had had before him for a long time.

News-Chronicle, Feb. 2'7.

 

 

 

 

 




”-‘vee-m 1,— A, —~ T ﬁat,“ -.-—.—:-.—

 

 

 

 

 

lVlay, I934

_MEET11\/G A T NO TTINGHAM

Mr. J. C. Sharp, secretary of the League was
the principal speaker at a meeting held in the
Adult School, Friar Lane, on March 18.

Ald. J. B. Grifﬁn, presiding, said the fair
county of Nottinghamshire was famous tor in-
famous) for what was euphemistically called
“ the chase.” But he had long held the con-
viction that the supreme urge to decent-minded
citizens was to suppress, whenever possible,
cruelty and injustice to animal creatures.

“In our treatment of animals,” said Mr.
Sharp, “ we have a double standard of morality.
On the one hand we could declare with pride we
were the greatest animal—loving country in the
world; on the other hand, there is no country
which indulges in cruelty to animals for sport to
the extent of this country.”

Stag hunting, he continued, was anything but

a humane sport, and the League urged that the

deer ravaged the crops of farmers, and that
farmers were entitled to protection.

“ The League considers that the whole thing
should be put under a Government department,”
said Mr. Sharp, “ and responsible game wardens
employed to track and stalk and keep the num-
bers down when necessary.”

As for fox hunting, they knew it was cruel to
chase the animal to its death or until it escaped
in an exhausted condition. Only one-ﬁfth of the
farming community in any hunting country bene—
ﬁted from the sport, the others being heavy
losers.

Touching upon coursing, Mr. Sharp gave par-
ticulars of his experiences during a visit this year
when the \Vaterloo Cup was being decided.

“ From what I saw,” he remarked, “ it was
difﬁcult to realise I was living in the year 1934.

“ I can understand that there are a number
of the hunting fraternity who hunt for the horse-
manship and the joy of the chase over the open
country; but I cannot understand my fellow
countrymen and countrywomen paying to watch
the terrible slaughter of hares that occurred at
this coursing meeting.

“ I contend,” said Mr. Sharp, in conclusion,
“ that a man who is cruel in his dealings with
animals is apt to become cruel in his dealings
with his fellow-men. Those who are working for
the abolition of cruelty to animals are working
also to protect man against himself.”

The vote of thanks to the speaker was pro
posed by Councillor Miss E. M. Scattergood,
seconded by Mr. E. H. Goddard. Recitations
were given by Miss Constance Barrett. The ad-
dress of the local representative is Miss F. M.

Roper, Belvoir Mount, Sneinton, Nottingham.

CRUEL SPORTS

Page Thirty—nine

ﬂ

BRISTOL ACTIVITIES

The Report for 1933 of the Bristol Branch of
the League is a record indicating much more
work than it actually sets forth.

They lost their Chairman, Rev. F. H. Ballard,
to Hampstead, but hope soon to ﬁnd an effec-
tive substitute. Several meetings were held dur-
ing the year and much literature distributed.
Perhaps the most signiﬁcant venture of the
Branch was the formation of a Junior Section——
the ﬁrst in the League. It held its ﬁrst meet—
ing on November 10th, at Keswick House,
Tyndall’s Park Road, Bristol, when the Leader,
Miss W. Medway, told the children about the
Animal’s Cause and explained that we were a
Society for the protection of wild animals as
well as domestic. Pictures were thrown on the
screen of some of the persecuted wild animals
and a short account given of each, the projecto-
scope being worked by two of the children.
Business followed in which the children also took
part. The Rules were read and questions en—
couraged. Quite a little ceremony was made of
the enrolling of members, each child coming to
the front and reading aloud the Promise on the
Membership Card, as follows, before signing it:
“ 1 piamise to abstain from taking part in any
sport which causes suffering to animals and to
do my best to inﬂuence others.”

Considerable interest was taken in the choos-
ing of the Group name, a good majority deciding
in favour of “ Heather ” group. The meetings
are held once a month, and it is hoped to form
other Groups in the area. Helpers are wanted
for this and anyone with a. real love of all animals
and having the gift of dealing with children are
invited to communicate with the Hon. Secre-
tary, Miss N. M. Chapman, 10, Bayswater
Avenue, Bristol, \Vﬁ. The Annual Subscrip-
tion is 1/— (minimum). A copy of the rules will
be sent to anyone interested on application.

* * 9e 9e

VOTE AGAINST FOX HUNTING

Acomb Branch of the Junior Imperial League
held a debate in Acomb Adult School. In pro—
posing the motion that “ Fox-hunting should not
be abolished,” Mr. Sutcliffe said unemployment
would be increased if fox hunting, a very old
sport, were stopped. Mr. L. Day seconded.

Mr. N. Scott and Mr. D. Marson opposed the
motion by saying that fox hunting‘was a blood—
thirsty so—called sport, which could be carried
on with some artiﬁcial objective. They declared
that the chances against the fox were 100 to
one. It was a blot on the prestige of our free-
dom-loving nation.

On a division the-motion was defeated by an
overwhelming majority. Yorks. Herald, Feb. 17

 




Page Forty CRUEL SPORTS May, l934

 

 

THE LEAGUE FOR THE PROHIBITION OFE

CRUEL SPORTS
lOl, Chandos House, Palmer Street, Westminster, S.W.l.
Phone: Victoria 8496.

Hon. Treasurer— Secretary—
CANON F. L. DONALDSON. J. C. SHARP.

 

Vice-Presidents—
LADY CLARE ANNESLEY. GERALD GOULD, Esq. E- ROSSLYN MITCHELL, Esq.

SIR HERBERT BARKER- DAME LOUISA INNES LUMSDEN. HENRY W. NEVINSON, Esq.

3111.13: LﬁfRég§$A139¥Fg F‘R'SOC'LIt" LL-D- (Edinburgh)é BEVERLEY NICHOLS, Esq.
(Ex-Pres., Nat. Un. Tohrs.). LADY EMILY LUTYENS. EDEN PHILLPOTTS, Esq.

CANON DONALDSON (Westminster). DONALD MACLEOD, Esq. PERCY A. SCHOLES, ESQ-

G. P. GOOOH, D.Litt. (Ex-Mbr. Brit. Olympic 01.). DAME SYBIL THORNDIKE.

 

WHAT THE LEAGUE STANDS FOR

THE PRINCIPLE. That it is iniquitous to inﬂict suffering upon sentient animals for
the purposes of sport—“ pleasure ”

IT CONDEMNS fox, deer, hare, and otter-hunting, badger-digging, and rabbit and
hare-coursing. (See leaflet “Blood Sports Condemned.” )
1 IT DEMANDS the substitution for the animal of a Drag,.which gives all the glamour
' of a run with hounds without the cruelty. (See leaﬂet “ Drag-hunting.”) '

> IT PROTESTS against the “ blooding” of children, and demands its cessation. (See

leaﬂet “Blooded.”)

 

 

AN OFFER. A copy of the Journal and leaﬂets sent tree to any address on application
to the Secretary. We shall also be glad to send a speaker to any Literary Society, Church
Grolupi etc., if out-of—pocket expenses are paid. Lantern slides and lecture notes are also
avai ab e.

 

JOIN THE LEAGUE.

I hereby declare that I am opposed to blood sports of every kind and desire to join the
League for the Prohibition of Cruel Sports.

I enclose herewith* ..............................................

State
whether
Mr. , Mrs. ,
or Miss.

*5/— per annum includes Ofﬁcial Journal monthly. Without the Journal, 2/6, Life Members £5.
Post this form, with remittance, to Secretary, L.P.C.S., IOI, Chandos House, Westminster, S.W.I.

 

FORM OF BEQU EST.

To those who may be inclined to become Benefactors by Will to the League, the following Form is
respectfully suggested :———
I bequeath unto the Society called THE LEAGUE FOR rHE PROHIBITION OF CRUEL SPORrs, London, the sum

of ........ . . ............ 1‘ree of Legacy Duty. And I direct that the same shall be paid to the

Treasurer for the time being of such last-mentioned Society.

By Virtue of_the Act_ of Victoria. cap. 26, all Wills and Codicils must be in writing, signed by the Testator, and
attested by two Witnesses 1n the presence of the Testator and of each other.

 

 

Published _by the LEAGUE FOR THE PROHIBITION OF CRUEL SPORTS, at 101, Chandos House. Palmer Street,
\VCStmmStCI‘. S.W.1. and Printed for them by NUNEATON NEWSPAPERS. LTD.. Bond Gate. Nuneaton

 




