 

    

  

MESSAGES

in

d GOODWILL

received on the occasion of the Iv'zm/g-zrml Public 1% caning, 12(3ch
Wednesday, November ztzflz, 1925, at the CIZZWC/l H 02136, W est-
7732728227, of the League/07 2‘]ch Pro/zitr'z7tz'o7c of Cruel Sports.

SYMPATHY an

Miss MARGARET BONDFIELD: “Hearty good wishes for
success in your efforts.”

REV. B. G. BOURCHIER: “ God speed you in your splendid
protest against these intolerable travesties upon the honour—
able name of ‘Sport.’ Originally this word meant F2471;
nowadays it stands for Murder.”

SIR PHILIP BURNE—JONES, Bt.: “ The objects of the
‘League for Prohibition of Cruel Sports have my whole-
hear'ted sympathy. The portrait of a child with its face
Smeared with a fOX’s blood is one of the saddest things I
have ever seen. The elders who were responsible for this
little maiden’s degradation are real corrupters of youth.
Such reading makes one almost despair of the advance of
civilisation.”

MRS. GEORGE CADBURY (Past President, National Free
Church Council): “ I hope you. will have a good meeting
and wish you success in your Crusade.”

REV. R. J. CAMPBELL: “ l have often said that there are
too many Societies now—a~days, but such a League as you
propose is so urgently needed that I welcome it with all my
heart. While cruel sport exists in England we are not one
whit better morally than the nations of Southern Europe.
In fact, in this particular, we are the moral interiors of some
of the heathen races to whom we send missionaries.”

MR. EDWARD CLODD : “ Your Crusade against the cruelty
involved in ‘Sport ’ has my full sympathy.”

RIGHT HON. J. R. CLYNES, MP. : “ I hope you will have
a very helpful gathering, and. let us hope that bcfore long the
national conscience will be ranged behind the objects of
your Public Meeting.”

HON. STEPHEN COLERIDGE : “ Nothing but a superior
claim upon me would have kept me away from participating
in your protest against the abominable treatment of animals
in the hunting ﬁeld.”




 

MISS E. E. CROSBY, L.L.A., President, National Union of
Women Teachers : ” The National Union of Women Teachers
most heartily sympathises with the objects of the League
for the Prohibition of Cruel Sports, and wishes you much
success both in your inaugural meeting and in all your
campaign. It is a part of our work to encourage a love and
reverence for all creatures, and we deplore the practices
which are so contrary to the spirit.”

CANON DONALDSON (Westminster): “I hope we shall
slowly be able to educate the unthinking mass of people
who accept these blood sports by tradition and custom
without stopping to consider the cruelty involved.”

SIR ARTHUR CONAN DOYLE: “I am entirely with you in
the case of every animal mentioned save only the fox, which
is predatory and would ravage the countryside if allowed
to multiply. The ‘blooding’ ceremony I regard as most:
disgusting and barbarous.”

PRINCIPAL GARVIE (New College, Hampstead.) : “ I cannot
conceive the state of mind—not to say heart——-of those who
can ﬁnd any delight in ‘blood sports.’ All cruelty is to me
abhorrent ; and those who can be cruel to animals, and ﬁnd.
pleasure therein seem to me to sink below the proper level
of humanity. To encourage children to indulge in such.
cruelty seems to me to be devilish work.”

MR. THOMAS HARDY: “ I do not see that much can be
done to hinder cruel sports while an appetite for cruelty is
cultivated in the young, as, for instance, by teaching the
children of the rich how to take life, shortly after they are
taught their letters.”

MR. MAURICE L. JACKS (Headmaster, Millhill School) : “ I,
am very glad to have the opportunity of sending you a message
of goodwill, and of best wishes for the success of your meeting.
Any movement which aims at reducing the sullering of any
of God’s creatures deserves the support of all right~thinking
and right—feeling men and women.”

MR. JEROME K. JEROME: “ ‘ Of course, fox~hunting is
cruel,’ said a woman to me once. She had just been presented.
with the brush. ‘ If is wasn’t,’ she continued, ‘ there would
be no fun in it.’ Human nature—«beneath the surface“-has
not really much changed since the crowds ﬂocked in the
Roman Coliseums. All power to your elbow.”

L'l‘.—COZVIMANDER KENWORTHY, MP. : “Please accept my
best wishes for a successful meeting and the assurance of my
great sympathy with your work.”

SIR HARRY LAUDER: “There is much need to preach,
kindness to animals of all kinds all over the world. . . . I Wish
your efforts all successf“




THE BISIiOP OF LONDON: “Without entering into the
vexed question of what sport is cruel, like every other sports—
man I am against any sport that can be shown to be
cruel.”

DAME LOUISA I. LUMSDEN, LLD. (Edinburgh) : “I shall
be with you in spirit on the 25th. We boast, as a nation,
of our sense of honour and spirit of fair play. But where are
these in blood sports? Hares and timid deer and helpless
cubs and harmless creatures are butchered without a chance
of escape. All cruelty is degrading to human nature and
demoralising, but cruelty for pleasure’s sake is sheer savagery
and doubly damned.”

RIGHT HON. J. RAMSAY MACDONALD, MP. : “Your
meeting has my heartiest sympathy. Heartlessness and
cruelty cannot be conﬁned to animals alone. Those who have
no feeling for pain and distress amongst what is called the
brute creation can have only a defective appreciation of it
in humanity. There is enough cruelty in the world Without
men who can avoid it deliberately pursuing it.”

MARGARET MACMILLAN, LLD. : “ Ofﬁcom/se I am With you
in your splendid Crusade. How terrible to see little child-faces
monstrously branded with the signet of a cruel and horrible
impulse that drives us lower than the brutes. God help
you in your big battle.”

MR. ARTHUR MEE : “ The righteous nation considereth its
beasts. It is time the country thatrset free the slaves set
free its tortured animals.”

MR. E. ROSSLYN—MITCHELL, MP. for Paisley, “deeply
regrets” he is unable to be at the meeting. He quotes an

)

extract from the poet Burns, “ To a Mouse ’ :~——

“I’m truly sorry man’s dominion,
Has broken Nature’s social union,
An’ justifies that ill opinion, which makes thee startle
At me, thy poor, earth-born companion an’ fellow—mortal. ”

MR. EDEN PHILLPOTrs: “You have my heartiest and
most cordial support in every effort to put down blood sports.
Hunting people move on a strange plane of their own, and
one much deplores that education, that enthusiasm for
animals most of them are apt to boast, does not extend to
the victims of their activities. The end of a fox—hunt is a
disgusting thing, and one has only to substitute any animal
other than a fox to such a death, and even sportsmen would
protest. Effort should be made to get at these peOple them-
selves, explain to them the barbarity of preserving these
childish and cruel traditions and challenge to know why a
drag-hunt is not as attractive and satisfying as the destruction
«of a living thing.”

 




MISS MAUDE ROYDEN expresses her sympathy with our
work and deeply regrets it is impossible for her to speak at
the meeting.

MR. HENRY S. SALT, a leading Humanitarian for over
forty years: “I hope your meeting will have the success
it deserves. I have long thought that the cruelties of blood—
sport demand much more public attention than has yet been
directed to them, and that a League like yours is therefore
urgently needed.”

MR. ROBERTSON SCOTT : “ No honest man or woman who
lives in a hunting district can be in any doubt whatever
that the pursuit of a fox and of the otter culminates, as often
as not, in revolting cruelty. Fox and otter hunting is, if we
have any regard at all for progress and civilisation, a deplorable
survival. Economically, fox hunting is as indefensible as it
is inhumane. The national loss to poultry keepers reaches
a surprising total.”

MR. JOSIAH WEDGWOOD, M.P.: “You have my entire
sympathy and good will, and you may be sure of it when.
needed in Parliament.”

DEAN VVELLDON : “ It is a pleasure to me to express my
deep sympathy with such efforts as have been or may be
made for the prohibition of cruel sports. I could not indeed
advocate the prohibition of all sports; but those sports in
which the animals chased get no chance of escape, or are
inhumanly treated are blots upon civilised society. I hope
there may be an end of all such sports.”

MR. HOWARD WILLIAMS, M.A., author of “ The Ethics of
Diet,” etc. : “ The League is doing most meritorious work
in calling serious attention to one of the most scandalous of
the hydra heads of national legalised barbarousness.”

H. B. A.
Price 3d. each, 30 for 13., 150825 free.

join the League and help to stop Cruelty for Pleasure.
53. per annum, minimum subscription.

DONATIONS, however small, needed to extend the work,
and Will be gratefully received by Mr. Ernest Bell, Hon.
Treasurer.

 

THE LEAGUE FOR THE PROHIBITION or CRUEL
SPORTS,

YORK HOUSE, PORTUGAL STREET, LONDON, W.C.z.

X72348—T1w Bololpk Printing Works, Gate Street, Kingsway, WICz

 




