THE MORAL ASPECT
VIVISECTION.

B Y

E. JANE VVHATELY.

IT is sometimes well for the instruction and encouraga
ment of those who give serious thought to the question
of Vivisection, to recall the words of persons eminent for
high qualities of intellect and of moral character, who
have passed judgment upon it. Miss E. Jane VVhately

daughter of Archbishop VVhately—was respected, trusted,

. . . ’-
and loved in no common degree by a large olrcle of friends

and acquaintances.

In the preface to a short memoir of her, by her sister,
published in 1893, there is the following tribute to her
worth from the pen of the well-known author of “The
Schijnberg—Gotta Family” : “If I were to fix on one quality
as especially characteristic of her, it would be truth—
truth of perception, which rested on entire truthfulness
of character. She was true to the core in mind and
heart. True, because she was clear-sighted, candid to
acknowledge difﬁculties in thought or memory, and
therefore tolerant to differences of thought ; true, because
in practice no shadow of self-interest ever dimmed her
perception of what was just, or ever made her swerve
from what she felt to be truest and noblest; true,
because she hated exaggerations —‘ the falsehood of
extremes’;——- true, because she was ‘a woman of a
as those who knew her longest, and

’

steadfast heart,
through most vicissitudes, best knew.”

[P.T.o.

 




 

2

Now let us read, in her own words, her view of
Vivisection from the standpoint of morality :-——

In reading the late correspondence between the advo-
cates and the opponents of Vivisecti-on in The Timesﬁ“ it
has struck me that our friends sometimes weaken their own
cause by bringing the chief weight of their argument to
bear on the question whether the discoveries made by the
“savage science,” as it has been well called, have really
led to results which have done good service in curing or
alleviating disease. The sharp discussion which has taken
place over the case of the poor man whose life was not
saved by an operation for brain disease, shows that the
Vivisectionists are not very amply provided with examples
even on their side.

But is not this unsafe ground to take in arguing with
them? It amounts to a practical acknowledgment that if
a certain number of successful cases, resulting from their
practice, could be found, the victory must be yielded to
them.

Now, it seems to me that the ground that conscientious,
not to say God—fearing people should take, is this: Even
granting the results to be as productive of advantage as
their most zealous advocates would contend, still we have
no right to take an immoral course to obtain them.

It is on this ground we now blame the advocates of
the Inquisition. They took precisely the position in question.
They probably honestly believed that the doctrines, the
spread of which they opposed, would do greater harm to
men’s souls than the most deadly disease to their bodies;
and they honestly thought the best way to stop the spread
of these opinions was their system of secret spies, torture,
and execution of obstinate offenders. Of course in our
enlightened days few would admit either of these premises;

but even granting them—granting that the use of reason

and intelligence produced deadly harm, and that the rack
and the dungeon were the most effectual remedy, should
we now admit that they were right in what they did? No,

we should say no possible good in the end could justify
such means.

 

* “Brain Surgery.”~—1884.




3

It is quite conceivable, now, that we might stop some
dangerous conspiracies against the safety of the whole
community by opening letters, breaking locks, and sending
spies right and left into private houses; but we hold that
except in cases where, so to speak, war has been declared,
and fair warning given, such means would be unlawful.
In short, those whose standard of rectitude is high, agree
that immoral means must never be allowed, even for the
best ends. On this ground, then, the enemies of Vivisection
may entrench themselves, and no opponent can dislodge
them.

And if it be objected to this, that we are thereby
giving up all hopes of making valuable discoveries in
certain departments of science, we may conﬁdently reply
that cutting off one unlawful way of attaining our object
will not shut out other ways of gaining it: quite the
contrary. If necessity is the mother of invention we may
also affirm that nothing quickens the intelligence, or stimu-
lates the search for resources, like a stern and consistent
allegiance to duty. He who will not take a crooked way
to his goal will search till he ﬁnds a straight way, and he
will ﬁnd it is the best after all. The easiest way is
commonly the immmoral one. The simplest way for a
poor man to satisfy his hunger is to steal; but if he is
resolved he will not use the unlawful way, he will look
out for lawful ones, and probably ﬁnd better ones. The
simplest way for a Government to get money is that
of the Asiatic despots, by wholesale robbery and violence;
but a just ruler will study and labour to attain the end
rightfully. And so those who resolve once for all that
none but humane and lawful means shall be used for
physiological discoveries, will, if they intelligently and
heartily set to work, ﬁnd means to attain their object,
and probably better and more reliable means. Close
observation of living subjects may prove more effective
than cruelties to creatures of another class. I believe
it will be found here, as in other cases, that where
the righteous way is ﬁrst sought, “‘ all these things will
. be added to us.”

 

“ Guardian” General Printing Works, Manchester, Reddish, and London.

 




 




