November 1, 1982

senator Robert Dole
Senate Office Building
washington, D.c. 20510

Dear Bab:

At the last meeting of the board of directors of the Animal Welfare
Institute we voted unanimously to invite you to receive this year's
Albert Schweitzer Medal. we all admire and respect your major
legislative achievements and your current efforts to prevent
needless animal suffering and your outstandingly humane attitude.

It would be an honor for the Animal‘Welfare Institute to make the
.award to you, and we hope you will accept.

Enclosed is a list of Schweitzer medalists and those who made the
presentations. Time and place would be decided in consultation
with your staff.

With kind regards .

Sincerely.

Christine Stevens
President

 




 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

PO. Box3650 Washington, DC. 20007

 

 

September 30, 1981

Dear Members and Friends,

You are cordially invited to come to the annual
meeting and award ceremony of the Albert Schweitzer Medal.
The 1981 Medal will be presented to Dallas Pratt,bLIL
by Senator Mark Hatfield (R, OR), a true humanitarian
who heads the U.S. Senate ApprOpriations Committee.

Dr. Pratt is the author of the powerful "Alternatives
to Pain in Experiments on Animals."

The ceremony will take place October fifteenth at
4:00 p.m. in the Senate Caucus Room, 318 Russell Senate
Office Building, at the corner of Constitution and First
Streets. A reception will follow the ceremony.

Dr. Pratt heads Argus Archives, a foundation which
assembles and publishes authoritative reports on major
animal cruelties. Now retired from his post of Associate
Psychiatrist at Columbia University and St. Luke's Hospital,
New York, Dr. Pratt divides his time between animal welfare
and the famous American Museum in Bath (U.K.) of which he
is co-founder.

In writing about the treatment of laboratory animals,
Dr. Pratt does not mince words in criticizing experiments
both on humane grounds and because he believes many to be
scientifically defective. We know you will welcome this
Opportunity to meet Dr. Pratt, and we are happy to have
you bring an interested friend.

Looking forward to greeting you, I am
Sincerely,

(an 57%

Christine Stevens
President

 




i 0 6‘
ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

PO. Box 3650 Washington, D.C. 20007

 

 

 

Dear Members and Friends,

Roger and Katharine Payne of "Songs of the Humpback Whale"
fame have been chosen to be the 25th Albert Schweitzer Medallists.
Senator Paul Tsongas (D.. Mass) who led the Senate fight for the
Alaska lands bill will make the presentation.

You are cordially invited to attend the Schweitzer Award
ceremony and annual meeting of the Animal Welfare Institute
February fifth at five o'clock in the afternoon in room 5110
of the Dirksen Senate Office Building, corner of Constitution
Avenue N.E. and First Street N.E., Washington, D.C. You are
welcome to bring a friend or relative who is interested in the
welfare of animals. Following the ceremony, a reception will be
held at which AWI members and friends can meet Roger Payne.
(Katharine, his wife, has not yet returned from Argentina, where
she is continuing their observations of southern right whales.)

The award recognizes the incalculable contribution to the
growing public appreciation and respect for whales for which the
Paynes are so largely responsible. Their recordings by hydrophone
of the voices of the whales was a best selling record, and when
incorporated into an issue of The National Geographig, became the
most widely distributed recording ever made. Roger Payne thus made
it possible for the whales to speak for themselves, and Katharine

Payne, in analyzing the songs, found that they differ from year
to year.

Roger Payne is both scientific pioneer and leader in the
defense of whales. His statement on ethical questions of whaling
prepared for submission to the 1978 meeting of the International
Whaling Commission concluded, "...the values of whales in their
live state makes the practice of whaling unacceptable to U.S.
citizens on ethical grounds."

We hope you will be with us on February fifth.

Christine Stevens
President

 




JV

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

PO. Box 3650 Washington, DC. 20007

 

 

 

September 30, 1981

Dear Members and Friends,

You are cordially invited to come to the annual
meeting and award ceremony of the Albert Schweitzer Medal.
The 1981 Medal will be presented to Dallas Pratt,bLIL
by Senator Mark Hatfield (R, OR), a true humanitarian
who heads the U.S. Senate ApprOpriations Committee.

Dr. Pratt is the author of the powerful "Alternatives
to Pain in Experiments on Animals."

The ceremony will take place October fifteenth at
4:00 p.m. in the Senate Caucus Room, 318 Russell Senate
Office Building, at the corner of Constitution and First
Streets. A reception will follow the ceremony.

Dr. Pratt heads Argus Archives, a foundation which
assembles and publishes authoritative reports on major
animal cruelties. Now retired from his post of Associate
Psychiatrist at Columbia University and St. Luke's Hospital,
New York, Dr. Pratt divides his time between animal welfare
and the famous American Museum in Bath (U.K.) of which he
is co-founder.

In writing about the treatment of laboratory animals,
Dr. Pratt does not mince words in criticizing experiments
both on humane grounds and because he believes many to be
scientifically defective. We know you will welcome this
Opportunity to meet Dr. Pratt, and we are happy to have
you bring an interested friend.

Looking forward to greeting you, I am
Sincerely,

Christine Stevens
President

 




 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

 

P.O. Box 3650 Washington, DC. 20007 October 15' 1981

FOR MORE INFORMATION CONTACT:

Fran Lipscomb
(202) 337-2332

:93 IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Physician, humanitarian and author of Alternatives £2.Pain
ig.Experiments gg_Animals (1981). Dr. Dallas Pratt will be
awarded Animal Welfare Institute's Albert Schweitzer medal by
Senator Mark Hatfield (R., Dr), October 15. 1981, at 4:00 p.m.
318 Russell Senate Office Building.
Dr. Pratt heads Argus Archives, a foundation which assembles
and publishes authoritative reports on major animal cruelties.
Now retired from his post of Associate Psychiatrist at Columbia
University and St. Luke's HOSpital, New York, Dr. Pratt divides
his time between animal welfare and the famous American Museum in
Bath (U.K.) of which he is co-founder.
In writing about the treatment of laboratory animals,
Dr. Pratt does not mince words in criticizing experiments both
on humane grounds and because he believes manyto be scientifically

defective.

 




Pratt/2

The Award follows two days of hearings (October 13/14)

before the House of Representatives Subcommittee on Science,

Research, and Technology on seven bills relating to the treatment
of laboratory animals and alternatives to their use.

The first Albert Schweitzer Medal of the Animal welfare
Institute was presented to Dr. Albert Schweitzer in 1954 by
Dr. Charles Joy at Oslo, Norway, where Dr. Schweitzer had
gone to accept the Nobel Peace Prize. Since 1954, it has
been awarded annually to persons who have made an outstanding

contribution to animal welfare.

 




  

 

ANIMAL WELFA

PO. Box 3650 Washington, DC. 20007 February 2 , 198,1

    
   
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
   
   
  
  
 

 

 

FOR MORE INFORMATION CONTACT:

Fran Lipscomb
John Gleiber
(202) 337—2332

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE

Dr. Roger Payne, foremost observer of whale behavior,
and his wife Katharine, famed for their best-selling
recording ”Songs of the Humpback Whale” will be awarded
Animal Welfare Institute's Albert Schweitzer medal by
SenatorPaul Tsongas (0., Ma.), February 5,-1981, at 5:002p.m.
Sll0 Dikkééa Senate Office Building.

Dr. Payne has spent 25 years conducting biological
acoustics research, and he has spent the last fifteen
years working with cetaceans in Bermuda, Hawaii and
Argentina, all singing grounds of whales. Katharine Payne's
analysis of whale song "scores,” resulted in the discovery
that humpbacks adopt a new song every year.

Their work has provided one of the best insights into

the mental capabilities of whales, and it supports their

strong belief that ”an increased awareness of the values Of

 
  

whales in their live state makes the practice of whaling

unacceptable on ethical grounds.”

 
    

-more-




Payne/2

Dr. Payne is also the originator of population studies
of southern right whales by aerial photography, followed by
identification of individuals, a painstaking effort which
makes counting them possible without harm to the whales,
in contrast to the conventional system used by the International
Whaling Commission which requires shooting a shotgun barrel-
sized ”Discovery Marker” into the whale. This marker lodges
in the animal until its death, being recovered on whaling
vessels when the whale is dismembered.

Dr. and Mrs. Payne live in Massachusetts, but they
spend much of their time at a provincial park and whale
refuge in Argentina. Dr. Payne is also a research zoologist
for the New York Zoological Society and an Adjunct Associate
Professor at Rockefeller University in New York. Dr. Payne
received his doctorate in animal behavior and neurOphysiology
from Cornell University and began his study and attempts to
preserve whales after he was deeply moved by seeing a dead‘
porpoise that had washed up on a beach and been mutilated
by people. Katharine Payne majored in music at Cornell.

The first Albert Schweitzer Medal of the Animal Welfare
‘Institute was presented to Dr. Albert Schweitzer in 1954
by Dr. Charles Joy at Oslo, Norway, where Dr. Schweitzer had

gone to accept the Nobel Peace Prize. Since 1954, it has

been awarded annually to persons who have made an outstanding

contribution to animal welfare.

 




‘ -r-

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD -- SENATE

all
and
lam
ical
vet-

.ses , ,

L on
rem
We
l of
ud-
ty’s
sion
hen
‘. of
his
amy

elimination. As I indicated earlier, the
administration is apparently claiming
savings of 552 full-time-equivalent-em-
ployee—FTEE’s—positions _
million in savings by cutting out the
readjustment counseling program. I ﬁnd
it particularly ironic that such savings
might be claimed because the program
is currently only using 346 FTEE’s and
the ﬁscal year 1980 cost of the program
was approximately $9 million. In fact,
because of what I believe—and the
Comptroller General and the VA itself
agree-is illegal action on the part of
the administration, the readjustment
counseling program is not at its present-
ly authorized personnel strength of 522
FTEE’s. My remarks on this situation,
which is the result of the present execu-
tive branch hiring freeze being applied
to the three VA health-care accounts in
violation of section 5010(a)(4) of title
38, United States Code, appear at pages
81785 through S1790 of the daily edi-
tion of the RECORD for March 3, 1981.
Mr. President, the storefront vet cen-
ters are a sound investment and a major
symbol of our desire to help Vietnam
veterans. For too many Vietnam vet-
erans still have feelings of alienation
and rejection—intensiﬁed recently by
the comparison betWeen the welcome
home they did not get and the welcome
home our Iran hostages received. They
doubt our national commitment to them.
It is enormously insensitive and plain-

‘ iy ill‘advis‘ed to propose to eliminate the

single most visible program for Vietnam
veterans.

I ﬁrmly believ , that Congress will re-
ject any such p oposal. I will do every-
thing I can to s e to that.

In fact, I am 4 elighted to report to my
colleagues that the Veterans’ Affairs
Committee today voted 8 to 4 to adopt a
budget amendment I offered with the
Senator from South Carolina (Mr.
THURMOND) to continue the readjust-
ment counseling program at . least
through ﬁscal year 1982 at the ﬁscal
year 1981 program level of $25 million
and to accommodate the extension of
eligibility for the program at least
through ﬁscal year 1982, as I have pro-
posed in S. 458.

This action,
rable action is

 

oupled with the compo.»
on by the House Vet-
erans’ Affair! Committee, , Tuesday,
greatly bright s prospects of solid con-
gressionali,“ su‘ pot for this program
throughout t thdget and legislative
processes. I,

Although t e budget markup today
contained 'n h bad news for veterans,
this reafﬁrm .tion of. commitment to this
vital program is a ray of light in an
otherwise dismal day for veterans.

J

DR. ROGER PAYNE IS. AWARDED
THE ALBERT SCHWEITZER MEDAL

0 Mr. TSON GAS. Mr. President, recently
I was honored to present the Albert
Schweitzer Medal of the Animal Wel-
fare Institute to Dr. Roger Payne, who
accepted it on behalf of himself and his
wife Katherine Payne. Dr. Payne’s ac-
ceptance speech beautifully expressed
their love of all living things. Mr. Presi-

and $31.4

dent, I ask that the text of histho ,
ful, sensitive statement be printed in N
the RECORD. . ' '

The statement follows:

_ STATEMENT 0N ACCEPTING THE ALBERT
SCHWEI'I‘ZER MEDAL

In Argentina, where we have been study-
ing white wMes for the past 11 years and
from which I have recently returned, I saw
an interesting new use for whales—only this
time it was a consumptive use, a use for
them in their dead state.

Some years ago a sei whale appeared in
our bay. For several days our hydrophones
picked up its low calls in the distance,
surely one of the most mysterious and eerie
sounds on this planet. And then the calls
stopped, and a few days later we had word
that the whale had died and was ashore
many miles from camp. 80 we mounted an
excursion and saved the skeleton. We trucked
all the bones back to whale camp and stored
them along the back of the beach out’of
reach of the ocean waves that once had
borne their owner. The bones are still there
awaiting a voyage to the Smithsonian. But
the skull was too large to go down the steep
road that descends the cliﬁ's to the bay and
so it now lies alone in the desert out of sight
of the sea, surrounded by bushes. , .

Last month I paid the skull a visitt‘o see
how it was fairing and as I was gazing in awe

.at the “decay of that collosal wreck" -I

thought Isaw something move. It appeared
momentarily in a window at the base of
the skulluthe so called foramen magnum.
the passageway through which the spinal
cord communicates with the brain. A few
moments later I saw it again; it was the
face of a mouse. She had built her nest in
the brainca'se of the whale—a much more
exotic consumptive use for a whale than.
any we humans have concocted. I felt too
that it was a noble transaction between a
mouse and a whale. In exchange for the
shelter that had once housed the whale’s
vaunted and enigmatic mind, the lady mouse .
had ﬁlled that now vacant chamber with a
whole brood of smaller, more'compact in-
telligences and then stuffed in a hatfull of
twigs and grass to make up for any short-
falls we might otherwise have perceived. ‘
Could the mind of'the mouse possibly com-
prehend what an extraordinary sanctuary she
had selected for her nest? Inside the al-
legory ﬁlled cave of the whale’s skull could
she imagine sunle-ss worlds beneath the sea,
ﬁlled with slowly wheeling galaxies of plies-
phorescence; or 6,000 mile migrations; or
towering icebergs? No matter, it was good,
solid housing. I don’t fault the mouse’s use
of the skull. because, after all, she chanced
upon it quite by accident. But it is curious ‘
how mundane even the most exotic uses are
to which mammals, ourselves included, put
whales. It is as if we had a lapse of spirit and
could not ﬁgure out how to proﬁt from cul-
tures other than our own. At least our own
species is now reaching tentatively out in
efforts to contact the people of the. sea;
whether it can be done before we develop
some new consumptive use remains to be
seen. ~
“What happens to beasts will happen to
man. Ali‘things are connected. If the great
beasts are gone men would surely die ofa .
great loneliness of spirit.” . ,.
That remarkable statement (made in 1884
by Chief Seattle)’ expresses exactly what I
sense will be the greatest loss, “when the
great beasts are gone." when we are con-
demned to live in the unspeakably boring
world of our own creation forever. In Argen-
tina I have felt each year a great loneliness
of spirit when the whales leave thebay and,
the bay returns to silence and emptiness. It
is hard to convey that feeling but when the
whales are there and‘ our days are spent
watching them breaching, spouting. sw1m-

Mt

 




Introduction of Paul E. Tsongas

It's a great pleasure for me to be here today to introduce

Senator Paul E. Tsongas, one of the two outstanding senators

from the Commonwealth of Massachusetts. It's especially appro—
priate since our medal recipient today is a Massachusetts
native and a near neighbor of mine in Lincoln, MA.

Paul received his undergraduate degree from Dartmouth
College, attended Yale Law School and the Kennedy School of
Government before serving in the Peace Corps in Ethiopia and
the West Indies. Senator Tsongas had experience as both a State
and U.S. Representative before coming to the Senate. All of you,
of course, are already familiar with him for his pre—eminent role
in the Congress in gaining protection for Alaska's wild lands.
The Alaska Bill was one of the most complex, difficult and
demanding pieces of legislation in the past decade and a milestone
for environmental wiSdom. All of us and future generations to come
owe Paul an enormous debt of gratitude for this remarkable achieve—‘
ment. It is with great pleasure that I introduce a great friend
of conservation from the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, Senator

Paul E. Tsongas.

Opening Introduction of Senator Tsongas
by Dr. Gerard A. Bertrand
Thursday, February 5, 1981

 




January 7,

Me. Chris Briand

c/o Senator Paul Tson as office
342 Russell senate 0f ice Building
washington, D.C. 20510

Dear Chris Briaad:

’Thenk you for your confirmation of the February 5,
1980 date for Senator Toonges to present the Schweitzer
Award to Roger and Katharine Payne.

Please let us know‘es soon as possible about the
room number, for'we will need to print invitations immedin
ately. Attached is the woraing of the invitation we are
proposing to send. .1 -

In 1976 when the Senate Office Building was the site
of the Schweitzer Award, there were approximately 200 guests
in attendance, and the largest caucus room available was
filled. Mrs. Stevens anticipates that this Award will
be equally as pepular.

we look forward to working with you on this event;
I will contact you on the details shortly. '

Sincerely,

Fran Lipscomb
Executive Assistant

/f1
enclosure

 




L
H
H
V
n1
H
H
H
L
S
D
H
M
m
l
Z
3
H
d
H
q
T
O
M
S
m
d

 

 

THE COURIER

SPRING 1981

 

 




The Fellowship seeks to foster the ethic of Dr.

Schweitzer of Reverence for Life, and to pro—

vide support for continuing his work at the
Albert Schweitzer Hospital at Lambaréné

THE ALBERT SCHWEITZER FELLOWSHIP
866 United Nations Plaza
New York, N.Y. 10017
(212) 752-1760

cover photo: Ludwig Friedel

 

 




 

To Friends of the Fellowship:

You will see from this issue of The Courier that the outreach
of the Schweitzer message continues, whether in the healing of
the sick at Lambaréne or in the inspiration to do away with
deadly arms through the United Nations. Certainly, the ethic —
“Reverence for Life” — is more relevant today than ever before.

Given the practical uses to which Albert Schweitzer put his
philosophy, it is incumbent on each of us who believes in his
precepts to follow his example. The need for individual action
that articulates one’s beliefs has never been as urgently required
as it is today. Albert Schweitzer’s life and work show that one
clear voice can be heard and does count. He was a deer as much
as a sayer.

The Fellowship, born of the urgency to aid Schweitzer in his
hour of need at Lambaréné in 1939, continues to reach out with
his message to greater numbers of people. The job, however,
requires help from each of you who reads this message. Do what
you can to spread the concept of Reverence for Life; involve
yourself in activities that bring Schweitzer’s philosophy into
being. And, help to support the Fellowship in its efforts for
support of the Hospital at Lambarene and to bring the Schweitzer
message to more and more of our fellow citizens.

The enclosed envelope gives you the opportunity to make a
special contribution, much needed at this time. Please be as
generous as you can. Your continued support is deeply appre-

ciated.
'w W

Lawrence Gussman
President
Albert Schweitzer Fellowship

 




 

 

 

FELLOWSHIP BOARD MEETS

At its Annual Meeting of the Board of Directors in April,
1981, the election of Ofﬁcers for one year, and Directors in the
Class of 1984 took place.

Re-elected were: Lawrence Gussman, President; Dr. Michael
A. Diana and Mark L. Wolf, Vice-Presidents; Dr. Roger F. Mur-
ray, Treasurer; and Dr. Maurice Frey, Secretary.

Directors re-elected to a three-year term are: W. 0. Biernacki-
Poray, architect; Rondo Cameron, Professor at Emory Univer-
sity, Atlanta; Ann Cottrell Free, journalist; Jackson Lee Ice,
Professor at The Florida State University, Tallahassee; Michael
F. Kipp, Deputy Commissioner, New York State Ofﬁce for Men-
tal Health; Robert L. Polk, Executive Director, Council of
Churches, City of New York; Edward Ponkop, businessman of
Vero Beach, Florida; and Isaac N.P. Stokes, attorney.

Dr. W. Larimer Mellon, famed for his work at the Schweitzer-
inspired Hospital in Haiti, was unanimously elected an Honor-
ary Director.

FELLOWSHIP TRUSTEE HONORED

Professor Antje B. Lemke is the recipient of a 1981 Chancel-
lor’s Citation for Exceptional Academic Achievement and Dis-
tinguished Service from Syracuse University.

An expert in archive and records management as well as art
and museum librarianship, Professor Lemke serves as a member
of the Fellowship’s Board of Directors. She directs the prepara-
tions for publication of the Schweitzer Bibliography and the
Gulde to Schweitzer Archives now underway at the Fellowship.

Professor Lemke came to Syracuse University in 1952 and
has been active in the University Senate and a number of other
groups on campus and in the community. She is particularly
noted for her close guidance as a mentor to students.

The Courier salutes Antje Lemke on her receipt of this well-
deserved honor.

 

 

 

. __ _-. _ A ~—vﬁ——————~ -ﬁ‘a




 

ALBERT S CH WEI TZER AND A

COMPREHENSIVE TEST-BAN TREATY
by
Homer A. Jack

Dr. Jack, Secretary-General of the World Conference on Religion
and Peace, is a member of the Board of Directors of the Fellow-
ship. He serves as Chairman of the sub-committee on world
peace of the Fellowship ’3 Program Committee. He is author of
“Disarmament Workbook: The UN Special Session and Beyond”.

During the Cuban missile crisis in October 1962, when the
use of nuclear weapons seemed likely, Albert Schweitzer wrote to
Bertrand Russell, “we must act!” Less than one year later, when
the partial test-ban treaty was signed, Schweitzer wrote Presi-
dent John F. Kennedy, “the treaty gives me hope that war with
atomic weapons between East and West can be avoided.” Not
given to hyperbole, Schweitzer nevertheless added that the
treaty is “one of the greatest events, perhaps the greatest, in the
world.”

That was in 1963—just two years before Schweitzer’s death.
To the end, Schweitzer hoped that the partial treaty would be
made comprehensive—to ban underground nuclear tests.

To date, about 100 nations have ratiﬁed the Partial Test-Ban
Treaty, but not China and not Schweitzer’s own country, France.
Indeed, before Schweitzer died two years after the Partial Test-
Ban Treaty entered into force, China detonated its ﬁrst nuclear
test and France its seventeenth.

The preamble of the Partial Test-Ban Treaty pledged the
States Parties to “achieve the discontinuance of all test explo-
sions of nuclear weapons for all time, determined to continue
negotiations to this end...” Indeed, the partial treaty was a
compromise and the negotiators over a decade were seeking for a
comprehensive treaty, forbidding tests in all environments,
including underground. Because some States, especially West-
ern, felt that underground testing could not be monitored .by
“national” means, they refused in mid-1963 to a comprehens1ve
treaty and thus settled for a partial treaty.

Statesmen for the past 18 years have continued, ﬁtfully, to

 

 

 

 




 

negotiate a Comprehensive Test-Ban Treaty (CTB). In 1972 UN
Secretary-General Kurt Waldheim asserted that “all the techni-
cal and scientiﬁc aspects of the problem had been so fully
explored that only a political decision was necessary in order to
achieve agreement.” But agreement was not forthcoming. In
1978 the USSR. and the USA. entered into bilateral negotia-
tions for a CTB. Progress was slow and the UN Secretary-
General convened a group of experts to investigate the lack of
progress in negotiating a CTB. They reported in 1980 that “veri-
fication of compliance no longer seems to be an obstacle in
reaching agreement.” Yet the tripartite negotiations have not
yet concluded with a treaty, much to the frustration of many
countries and individuals.

If Albert Schweitzer were alive today, he might not be as
euphoric as he was in 1963. Nuclear weapons tests have con-
tinued, mostly underground. From July 1945 through the end of
1979, there have been a total of 1,221 nuclear tests by six nations
(including one by India). Since the Partial Test-Ban Treaty was
signed in August 1963, and through 1979, there have been a total
of 733 tests. These include 41 in the atmosphere by France and 21
in the atmosphere by China. France has not detonated a device
in the atmosphere since 1974, but China detonated one in
October 1980.

Will there ever be a CTB‘? It is the most overdue measure in
the ﬁeld of disarmament. Yet the weapons laboratories in sev-
eral nuclear weapon countries are having second thoughts. If
there is to be a CTB, it will only be the result of a demand ofthe
people of the world for an agreement. In the spirit of J awaharlal
Nehru, Bertrand Russell, Albert Einstein, and Albert Schweitzer
a new worldwide public campaign ought to be launched to reach
a comprehensive test-ban agreement. If such an effort is
launched, perhaps a treaty can be signed before the Second
Special Session on Disarmament of the United Nations General
Assembly is convened in mid-1982. If the latter opens without a
CTB, there might be bitter confrontation in the halls of the
United Nations. Or the lack of a treaty might be the excuse for
several non-nuclear States to acquire nuclear weapons. It will be
a much more dangerous world if a comprehensive test-ban treaty
is not soon signed and enters into force.

In 1962, Schweitzer in Lambaréné told an American visitor:
“Bark out against atomic tests and atomic war, like a dog in the
African night.” Schweitzer’s continuing legacy to us is to speak
out against atomic wrong, 16 years after his death.

 




— —» m— «A

 

 

President G.T. Smith of Chapman College introduces Lee
Ellerbrock

Chapman College in Orange, California was the scene in
February of this year of the dedication ceremony for the Lee and
Dorothy Ellerbrock collection of Schweitzer papers and mem-
orabilia.

The collection includes books, pictures, clippings, corre-
spondence and artifacts made by Lambaréné hospital staff and
patients. The Ellerbrocks spent nine years at the hospital, serv-
ing as volunteers in their aid for Dr. Schweitzer.

The day’s program was highlighted by a performance of the
one-woman show “I Am His Wife” by actress Lilly Lessing,
based on the life of Helene Schweitzer.

Greetings from the Fellowship for this important occasion
were conveyed in person by Fellowship Director Edward Pon-
kop, who attended the event with Mrs. Ponkop.

 

Dorothy and Lee Ellerbrock at dedication ceremony

 

 




 

STUDENT DOCTORS TO LAMBARENE

The 1981 group of medical students has been selected for
work service at the Albert Schweitzer Hospital in Lambaréné,
and the ﬁrst team of two, Tamsin Knox and Neil Doherty, is in
place at the Hospital.

Tamsin Knox is a graduate of Yale (1978) and a candidate
for MD. in 1982. She has taught at the Maiani Secondary School
in Kenya, and served as a research assistant at the Institut de
Biochimie Clinique, Geneva and at the Cancer Research Insti-
tute of New England Deaconess Hospital.

Neil Doherty is concerned with health care delivery sys-
tems, particularly in developing nations and in tropical medi-
cine. With pediatrics, surgery and general medicine his major
interests, he looks forward to gaining knowledge that will guide
him toward a decision on his future specialty as a physician.

Allan Hamilton, a graduate of the Lycee F rancais in New
York and of Ithaca College, has been a special student in pre-
medical studies at Hamilton College. He has spent several
summers as a research assistant at the Masonic Medical
Research Laboratory in Utica, New York and at Beth Israel
Hospital in Boston.

Charles LeBaron, now a third-year medical student, is a
graduate of Princeton University and has studied at Columbia
University, taking the science courses needed for his application
to medical school. He holds a Masters Degree from the Harvard
Graduate School of Education. His work experience has been as
a teacher of reading in public schools in Harlem, and as a social
worker in the Infectious Disease Unit of San Francisco General
Hospital.

Fellowship Board member Mark Wolf serves as Chairman
for this major program which is now in its third year.

 

To become one day the doctor whom these poor people
needed, it was worthwhile, so I judged, to become a medical
student. Whenever I was inclined to feel that the years I should
have to sacriﬁce were too long, I reminded myself that Hamilcar
and Hannibal had prepared for their march on Rome by the”
slow and tedious conquest of Spain.

—Albert Schweitzer
Out of My Life and Thought

4 ‘4 ‘_

 




 

SCHWEITZER’S MESSAGE TO YOUTH

When he visited the Silcoates School in Yorkshire, England
in the mid-1930’s Albert Schweitzer spoke on “The Meaning of
Ideals in Life” to the students.

“I want to talk to you about something which I have very
much at heart. I want to speak to you about yourselves, about the
path you are going to seek in life,” he began.

“You have not got to seek it yet; here you are at school
preparing for your life. But the day will come when you start on
the path of creating your life and then you will want to know in
what direction to go. And you will see that it is harder to find the
direction than you think. Here you are at school: you learn. What
do you learn? You learn various kinds of knowledge which are
necessary to become something in life. I would tell you, you
cannot learn enough.

“You must have all kinds of knowledge for life and you
should carry away with you from this school the necessary
knowledge; but you must also carry away thoughts with you. It is
not only knowledge that you are taught: you are taught also to
understand thoughts. It is life itself that will examine you and it
is life that will ask you: ‘have you profited by your youth; have
you profited by taking into your heart all the thoughts that are
necessary. . . are you carrying with you the necessary idealism?’

“For not one of us can live merely by knowledge—all of you
have need to think. What thoughts are there that you have need
of? You need to think about the true way of being a human being,
not merely to be someone who has knowledge or is clever in what
he does; but to be somebody who knows what he wants to do. Be
one who knows that for life you require the truth, that to live you
need goodness, to live you need gratitude; that within life there is
a spiritual life and that we are but poor if we go into life without a
realization of that spiritual life.

“In some of the letters I get, there is the question: ‘can you
tell me in what way I can put my good will to use? I have good
will to give out; I should like to ﬁnd some good that I can do and I
cannot find it.’ I reply: ‘Have patience; don’t imagine that you
can ﬁnd the solution at once. If I could tell you about my life, you
would learn that I looked for such work for years and years and
that only at last did I ﬁnd it. So if you want to spend that will you
have for good, it may be that you will have to seek and wait; but
seek, and wait, and you will ﬁnd.’ And I add: ‘Seek a humble sort

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

of thing.’ Our hearts often look for something very big, some-
thing wanting a lot of sacriﬁce, and often our heart does not see
the humble things. At ﬁrst you must learn to do the humble
things and often they are the most difﬁcult to do.

“So during your boyhood here at school you want to get into
your hearts those thoughts which make for spiritual life. You will
need to say: ‘I don’t only want to live an exterior kind of life.’ You
don’t wish to be a person who says: ‘I want success, I want to
have a good position, I want to be comfortable in life’; but you
wish to be somebody who says: ‘I want to keep my own soul.’

“Do not be deceived, do not become poor in your lives: know
that to live you need the wealth of the heart. Don’t become
skeptics; be people who are looking for ideals. Life would like to
take ideals from you, so hold fast to them. You will need to defend
them and you will be in danger of being led in life only by exterior
kind of thoughts. Don’t let that be, ever. And if I tell you that you
need ideals, I tell you at the same time that you must serve. You
will be poor in life if all you think about is to get success for
yourselves: the real purpose in life is to serve, to be there for
others, to help in realizing what ought to be realized.

“I don’t know what your destiny will be. Some of you will
perhaps occupy remarkable positions. Perhaps some of you will
become famous by your pens, or as artists. But I know one thing:
the only ones among you who will be really happy are those who
have sought and found how to serve. Happy only are those who
let themselves be guided by their hearts, because the heart is the
great reason, the reason that always is right in life.

“Only if all of us believe in the Kingdom of God—an ideal of
goodneSs which ought to reign amongst us, which ought to reign
amongst all peoples, which ought to rein in our hearts. So each one
of you, when he goes forth into life, must have a thirst for the
Kingdom of God, a wish to see something of it in his own life, a
wish to carry it within him and a desire to work in the spirit of the
Kingdom of God. If you preserve that ideal in your lives, then you
Wlll be happy. May God give you that happiness.”

 

 




 

YOUR PART IN REVEREN CE FOR LIFE

Although January 14th marks the anniversary of Albert
Schweitzer’s birth (1875) and is the date on which sermons,
concerts, seminars and other events take place to commemorate
him, each of us has the opportunity to carry forward Dr.
Schweitzer’s ideals the year-round.

As an individual, you can:

—-continue to support the work of the Fellowship, so that it may
reach a wider audience with the message of Albert Schweitzer.
—read about Albert Schweitzer’s life and work so that you will be
not only inspired but you will have knowledge of his philosophy
and ethic (Order your free copy of Schweitzer: A Biography).
—invite a group of friends to a gathering to talk about “Rever-
ence for Life” as a concept much needed in today’s living. Exam-
ine your neighborhood’s and your community’s needs to deter-
mine what projects might be undertaken that would embody
that concept.

—check with your library to ﬁnd out whether its shelves have
books by and about Albert Schweitzer. You and/ or your club
might make a gift of such books to the library, perhaps in
memory or in honor of a friend or colleague.

-—invite your religious leader (pastor, rabbi, minister, priest) to
plan a service in which a sermon on the beliefs of Albert
Schweitzer would be given. The book of Schweitzer’s sermons
(listed on the Order Form) might be helpful in preparing the
service.

—give the Program Chairman of your religious community (sis-
terhood, brotherhood, youth group) the suggestion for a series of
discussions on the philosophy and ethic of Schweitzer as they
relate to today’s world.

—-—suggest to musical groups in your community that they plan a
Bach program, with a speaker who is versed in Schweitzer’s
writings on Bach.

-—propose to professional, fraternal and business organizations
to which you belong the development of a series of seminars on
the aspects of Schweitzer’s life that have meaning today. He was
the busiest of men: physician, musician, theologian, philosopher—-
yet he found time to care for the individual human being and for
all forms of life.

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

—offer your own talents, if you are a musician, to arranging a
neighborhood or community-wide concert to help in raising
funds for a Schweitzer-oriented local project, or for the Hospital
in Lambaréné.

-—if you are an educator, plan an essay contest for your students
on an aspect of Dr. Schweitzer’s life and work.

—propose to editors of house organs of your company or your
newspaper, articles and editorials on “Reverence for Life”; on
what the young people can learn from Schweitzer’s writings and
activities; on the importance of ethics in our daily lives at
present.

These are examples of how we can translate our interest in
and concern with Albert Schweitzer’s life and work into today’s
living. You will think of other examples that you can try in your
area; let us know about them. Each of us, in our own way, can
offer some action that helps to continue the impact of “Reverence
for Life” today and tomorrow.

10




REPORT FROM LAMBAREN E

In his farewell report, Dr. Walter Munz has given an
overview of the Albert Schweitzer Hospital today. Dr. M unz, who
returned to the Hospital as Médecin-Chef in 1980 after having
served during the last years of Dr. Schweitzer’s life, has now
moved back to his home and medical practice in Switzerland.
Following are excerpts from his report:

Right from its inception, Albert Schweitzer’s achievement
was a hospital where the immediate needs of the sick were
satisfied. At the same time it was necessary to seek out the best
ways of achieving this goal. Healing did not exclude building,
and the activity around the sick-bed could not be permitted to
slow the development of the Hospital. There was no doubt, how-
ever, that in decisive cases direct human assistance took prece-
dence over building.

From his long experience Dr. Schweitzer knew that this
co-existence was often difﬁcult, and occasionally he deplored the
fact that he could not be the complete doctor he wanted to be
because so often he was obliged to be a master builder.

In all the 68 years of its history Lambaréné was never
ﬁnished. It represented a permanent task of expansion, improve-
ment and repair. When additional buildings were ﬁnished the
garden had to be re-cultivated, and when the garden was in
bloom and bearing its fruits, attention had to be turned to pro-
tecting the river bank facing the Hospital from erosion.

Change and remodeling were thus permanent features of
Lambaréné and during 1980/ 81 they were more far-reaching
than ever before. For this was the time of the move from an old
and well-loved hospital village rich in history to a new and
modern hospital complex with wide roads, bright rooms and
white tiles, a complex that must now begin to create its history
and its merit, a hospital that must be brought to life.

After just a few months of work in the new hospital I find
inspiration present in abundance, for it lies in the people who
come seeking help and in those who give it—not in buildings and
roads. Our task is to give the gift of the spirit.

The new hospital was built in such a way that much of what
was vital in the old buildings was incorporated into the new one.
For example, the healthy members of the family still live in the
hospital with the sick child or the feverish mother or the weak-

11

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

ened father or grandfather, and just as in the old days they cook
their patient’s meals in an African kitchen over an open ﬁre.

Without the new hospital, child of the old hospital, Albert
Schweitzer’s village of the sick would not have survived in the
Gabon of today. Mere preservation of a monument to bygone
times would not be a ﬁt succession to the work of Schweitzer.
However, the old village can stand beside the new one, which will
continue its work in an up-to-date manner as the heart of today’s
Lambaréné.

So, in this spirit, Lambaréné moved in 1980. First the cheer-
ful out-patient clinic, where consultations take place, was moved
to the new polyclinic on the hill, followed immediately by the
laboratory, the x-ray department and the pharmacy. The post-
operative patients were then moved from the Case Bouka of the
old hospital to the two new pavilions—Surgery I for the aseptic
patients, Surgery II for the septic patients.

Next came the turn of the expectant mothers and those who
had recently given birth, and their infants tucked into wide
baskets. They were moved into the new Maternity building.

Finally, patients suffering from tropical diseases were
moved to the Rene Kopp House, where a new kitchen and
bathroom facilities had been installed. The Children’s Hospital
on the river bank did not have to be moved, but new features were
added to it.

What is left in the old hospital? It still houses two clinical
departments, still in the form in which Dr. Schweitzer left
them—the small village for the mentally ill, and the large Vil-
lage de Lumi‘ere with its leprosy patients. Some 80 patients there
are in need of treatment and it also contains an equal number of
relatives and children of patients, who are healthy.

I never cease to be moved by the type of resignation of the
leprosy patients. They are not sunk in apathetic and dreary
passivity; depending on the individual patient, what we more
commonly ﬁnd is a courageous survival behavior and even a
cheerful devoutness, the product of pain and devotion of people
who are used to suffering. On one of myrecently weekly visits to
the Village, I noticed that Emane Benoit, who has particularly
mutilated feet, was not present. When I called out his name, I
heard his voice from his hut: “Doctor, I’ll come to visit you again,
but today my feet are on vacation.” The leper village has earned
its name of Village of Light.

What else is left? The Sunday church service with its hand-
ful of followers and a Tuesday evening group who meet to sing,
read the Bible and pray. On the old pharmacy Albert Schweitzer
personally scratched the words: “Blessed are the merciful, for
they shall obtain mercy” and “Blessed are the peacemakers, for
they shall be called the Children of God”.

12

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

And in the old hospital area, the original water supply sys-
tem and the sterlization area for cooking instruments stand.

What of today’s work? As reported to you previously (The
Courier, Winter 1980) healing or curative medicine was and is the
focal point of our daily work.'Every treatment must be accom-
panied by a preventive principle, and every treatment is used as
a learning experience to transmit knowledge and ability on
many levels.

Preventive medicine is an important social aspect: vaccina-
tions, counselling for pregnant women, instruction on nutrition
of children, hygiene in the kitchen, the home and the village. An
important preventive task that is, in the long run, of great impor-
tance to the country, is the effort to rebuild proper families and
training in the responsibility of spouses for each other and of
parents for their children.

What about training? It should be emphasized that any
medical procedure must also have an instructional aim. This is
particularly true in a developing country, for here we must create
and construct not only for these people but, above all, with them,
so that they will be able to help themselves as soon as possible.

Our school for medical aides is now three years old. Students
must submit proof of six completed school years and must pass
oral and written entrance examinations. Teaching nurses
instruct them in anatomy and physiology, which is supple-
mented by individual instruction by school nurses. Upon com-
pletion of their second year and an examination, students
receive a certiﬁcate.

Mention should be made here of the medical students from
the University of Berne, Switzerland and students from Harvard
Medical School in Boston, whose experience has been mutally
positive.

Is research being done now? Research has been carried out
at Lambaréné for decades. On April 4, 1981 a new research
laboratory was dedicated. Major subjects studied here are those
illnesses most common to the country.

Dr. J ean-Michel Gattlen, specialist in internal medicine and
tropical diseases, will assume medical leadership initially; pr.
Philippe Schonlaub of the Children’s Clinic and Preventive
Medicine Section, and Dr. Thomas Schwab, of the Surgery and
Obstetrics section will take turns later as medical-chiefs for the
Hospital.

I wish the new administration success in their great and
wonderful work. I hope that the Hospital will continue to meet
the changing needs of the times while maintaining its speCIal
and personal character, and that it will receive from its friends
the help it will need for its work in the future as it did in the past.

13

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

INTERNATIONAL SYMPOSIUM

From Dr. Gerhard Fischer, leader in the planning and
arrangements, a report comes regarding the international Albert
Schweitzer Symposium held in October 1980 in Burgscheidun-
gen, German Democratic Republic.

Dr. Fischer points out that such symposia have a long tradi-
tion, dating back to 1967 when the first international Schweitzer
conference was held in Basle, Switzerland. “The dominant feature
of all of them,” he states, “was the effort to relate Schweitzer’s
legacy to current tasks; that is, not to be content with honoring
the great man but rather to learn from his teachings and to draw
conclusions from it that are applicable to individual and inter-
personal behavior for today and tomorrow.”

“Reverence for Life—Today” was the theme of this ﬁrst
international Schweitzer symposium to be held in a Socialist
country. Some 150 participants from 12 countries took part in the
proceedings, organized by the Albert Schweitzer Committee of
the German Democratic Republic in cooperation with the A.I.S.L.

In his welcoming speech, Gerald Gotting, Chairman of the
Christian Democratic Union of Germany (meeting place for the
symposium), and deputy Chairman of the Council of State of the
GDR, stated “Precisely now is the time of challenge for the sense
of responsibility of all men of good will. It is precisely now that
the ethic of Albert Schweitzer can and must demonstrate its
vigor and inspire us to maintain an attitude that will encourage
the peaceful collaboration of nations and peaceful cooperation of
governments.”

 

(l. to r.) Symposium participants Gerald Gotting, Dr. Hermann

Mai, Dr. Werner Ludwig, and Harold E. Robles, Secretary-General
of A.I.S.L.

14

 




 

Dr. Fischer reports that the will to continue the dialogue on
roads to peace clearly dominated the lectures and discussions.
Naturally, he says, the statements did not in any way exclude
the political sphere, on which Dr. Schweitzer had clearly ex-
pressed himself during his last years, and differences of opinion
were unavoidable in view of the composition of the participants.
The determining factor, however, was the readiness to express
differences of opinion on individual questions in a determina-
tion to understand them and to encourage public awareness for
efforts for peace.

For two days the question of what the principle of reverence
for life requires of us today was discussed, with the first day
dealing with current problems of guaranteeing peace, and on the
second day highlighting questions of environmental protection.
On each day, a balance of views was achieved through the
introduction of the subject by a speaker from a Western country
and a speaker from the GDR.

The closing session heard a speech on “Albert Schweitzer
and Goethe” which served as the transition to the following
day’s program which brought visitors together with members of
the host Committee to the city of Weimar. Visits were made to the
Herder Church, Goethe House, the Albert Schweitzer Memorial,
and the former Buchenwald concentration camp, now the site of
a national monument and memorial. Plans are now underway
for establishment of an Albert Schweitzer House in Weimar, with
dedication planned for early 1983.

A message from Mrs. Rhena Schweitzer Miller expressed
the hope that a fruitful exchange of ideas would give the partici-
pants increased strength to make the idea of reverence for life
effective in this disrupted world and to translate it into reality.

The Honorary Committee for the Symposium included Mrs.
Miller, Fellowship President Lawrence Gussman, Dr. Walter
Munz of Lambaréné, Dr. Hermann Mai, Vice-President of
A.I.S.L., Dr. Herve Moutsinga, Minister of Health of Gabon,
Professor Werner Ludwig, Chairman of the Albert Schweitzer
Committee of the German Democratic Republic, and Mr. Gotting.

15

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

‘1,"-

,.ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE MEDAL

I: IV“
r’: y! ‘

\, Dr. Roger Payne and his wife, Katharine, received the 1980

Albert Schweitzer Medal from the Animal Welfare Institute in
February of this year. The medal is awarded annually for an
outstanding contribution to animal welfare. Dr. Payne’s recent
work has been focussed on the various species of whales.

Senator Paul Tsongas, in introducing Dr. Payne, a fellow
resident of Massachusetts, said that the crunch issue today is
“whether men and women can live in harmony with the envi-
ronment and learn to love the earth that nurtures us.”

In accepting the medal, Dr. Payne said in part:

“ ‘What happens to beasts will happen to man. All things are
connected. If the great beasts are gone, men would surely die of a
great loneliness of spirit.’ That remarkable statement made in
1884 by Chief Seattle expresses exactly what I sense will be the
most painful loss when the great beasts are gone and when we
are condemned to live alone for all eternity.

“The irreducible minimum ecosystem is a food pyramid with
a single predator on top. But it is a doomed ecosystem unless
enough such pyramids are preserved to ensure the perpetuity of
the predator. In this sense a whale does not exist apart from its
pyramid. It is one with its pyramid. It is the pyramid. It is much
the same with kings. The word ‘king’ deﬁnes an office, not an
individual. A king who has lost his subjects and been dethroned
has no meaningful existence. He is like anybody else—lost in the
crowd and soon forgotten. It is, I feel, a good strategy in
conservation, to identify animal and plant kings and then to
guarantee their kinngm.

“There is a vastly practical reason for concentrating on a
major species. If we wish to save the apex of a pyramid, we must
save the entire pyramid. . ..

“If we can ﬁre the imagination of the human world on behalf
of non-human life we will be living in a more enlightened world
and will not be facing the prospect of dying from a great loneli-
ness of spirit.”

The Institute, located in Washington, is headed by Fellow-
ship Board member Christine Stevens.

16

 




 

 

J OURN ALIST VISITS LAMBAREN E

Travel writer Ron Butler, who visited Lambaréné recently,
gives a vignette that will be of interest. In his article, which was
widely syndicated in newspapers in the United States, he writes:

“I had been traveling in Africa for several weeks, but all of
the places I visited seemed only to mark the time and distance
left before I would arrive here at Lambaréné. Visiting the
Schweitzer Hospital had been a boyhood dream. Now, in and at
an age when larger- than- life figures are not so easy to find, I
came searching for the shadow of a giant.

“When Schweitzer died on September 4, 1965, at the age of
90, many felt that the primitive jungle hospital to which he had
devoted more than half of his life would be quickly dissolved. It
couldn’t be busier.”

Relating an encounter, he goes on: “Reaching the com-
pound, we cooled off with cold soft drinks at what was appar-
ently the ‘company store.’ Later we made arrangements to tour
the hospital. Her name was Suzanne, said our guide, an elderly
black woman in a blue and white uniform. Had she known
Schweitzer? somebody asked. Yes, she answered, with a warm
and easy smile. ‘He delivered my two sons.’ ”

Butler visited the Schweitzer bungalow-museum, and says:
“(it) looks as if he might have just stepped away from it 20
minutes earlier. Gently cluttered, the two small rooms mirror the
man —— a brass bed, table, desk, bookcases, medicine chest, two
pairs of ankle- high shoes, magnifying glass, pocket watch,
stacks of letters never to be answered. .

“In a corner is his piano, zinc-lined to protect it from humid-
ity, keys yellowed and broken. The sheet music is of his favorite
Bach. On a stand beside the bed is a tin washbasin, razor and
strop. Because he considered it a luxury, Schweitzer never used
lather or soap to shave. And there was his white hat.”

17

 

 

 




 

The Committee for the Spiritual Work of Albert Schweitzer
announces a Master Class for Piano: J .-S. Bach, to take place
from August 2nd to 9th.

The course will be held in the Community Hall across the
street from Maison Schweitzer in Gunsbach, France: partici-
pants will be housed at the Kleebach where rehearsal rooms with
instruments will be available.

“Pianists, performers and listeners” are welcome, according
to the announcement, and for further details, inquiries may be
addressed to:

Maison Albert Schweitzer

68140 Gunsbach, France

 

“Albert Schweitzer: Thoughts For Our Times”, originally
prepared in 1975 by the late Erica Anderson, is again available.

Orders for the small, hard cover book, at $4 each, may be
sent to the Albert Schweitzer Center, Hurlburt Road, Great
Barrington, Mass. 01230.

 

For those friends of the Fellowship who wish to plan a
gift in the future that will help the Fellowship continue its
support of the humanitarian life work of Dr. Schweitzer, the
following designation is to be used:

The Albert Schweitzer Fellowship, Inc.
866 United Nations Plaza
New York, N.Y. 10017

 

 

18

 

 




 

 

 

ORDER FORM

REVERENCE FOR LIFE, collection of sermons by Albert
Schweitzer. Re-issued in hard cover edition, March 1980. $9.95

ALBERT SCHWEITZER: AN AN THOLOGY, edited by Charles
R. Joy. Revised and enlarged edition, containing both lengthy
and brief excerpts from Dr. Schweitzer’s writings on a vast
number of subjects. $3.95 to Courier readers

THE GREAT DOCTOR: The Story of Albert Schweitzer, by
Nancy Martin. Published in Great Britain by the Religious Edu-
cation Press, this slim booklet suitable for youngsters is made

available through our colleagues in Dr. Schweitzer’s Hospital
Fund, London. $1.00

ERICA ANDERSON PRESENTS ALBERT SCHWEITZER. A
picture story with explanatory captions, this paperback book is
suitable for all ages. $1.00

SCHWEITZER: A BIOGRAPHY by George Marshall and David
Poling. Paperback edition for the Fellowship. This authoritative

life story, with illustrations, is suitable for adult and student
readers. FREE

Please send:

copies of Reverence for Life

.____ copies of Schweitzer: An Anthology
copies of The Great Doctor

copies of Erica Anderson Presents
__ copies of Schweitzer: A Biography

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

$ enclosed
NAME
ADDRESS
CITY
STATE ZIP CODE______

 

19

 




 

20

Please return your Order Form and Payment; to:

Albert Shhwcitzor Fellowship
866 United Nations Plaza
New York, N.Y. 10017

in the rcturn envelope provided

 

 

 




 

THE ALBERT SCHWEITZER FELLOWSHIP

Honorary Directors:
NORMAN COUSINS

W. LARIMER MELLON
EDOUARD NIES-BERGER
MRS. EMORY ROSS

Ofﬁcers and Directors

LAWRENCE GUSSMAN
President

ROGER F. MURRAY
Treasurer

W.O. BIERNACKI-PORAY
RONDO CAMERON
GRETCHEN K. DIANA
ANN COTTRELL FREE
JACKSON LEE ICE
HOMER A. JACK

JOHN KAREFA-SMART
MICHAEL F. KIPP
ANTJE B. LEMKE
GEORGE N. MARSHALL

MICHAEL A. DIANA
MARK L. WOLF
Vice—Presidents

MAURICE FREY
Secretary

RHENA SCHWEITZER MILLER
LESLIE PAFFRATH

ROBERT L. POLK

EDWARD PONKOP

JAMES DEOTIS ROBERTS
RICHARDSON W. SCHELL
CHRISTINE STEVENS

ISAAC N .P. STOKES

ERIC E. VAN LOON

MARY O. YATES

Executive Director:
ESTELLE LINZER

 




The roots of the philosophy of reverence for life are big and

strong, deeply planted, so that the tree can grow without being
hurt by storms.

Albert Schweitzer

 

 

 




 

 

,“K
‘ ‘ ‘l‘
L“ ‘2;
r, , .3” ~, -:__\-1‘, ,, 53314:". g ‘, -_. , , .m w
tlﬁ,‘ r .! - ‘ ‘ '7. l‘, 9;ng f.“ 4. r. * i. ., J.“ ‘ 1‘, ;4

' - ; .2731 , ,

Special to The Washington Star .

Protocol Post
-‘ A‘Hot Topic

. As word that Lee
Annenberg is like.

-- ly to be the next

chief of protocol

‘was whispered

this week, the

hors d'oeuvres cir-

. ' cuit was asking:

Would the wife of multi-multi-
millionaire Walter Annenberg,
hostess to the queen of England
and US. presidents, really be inter-

ested in the demanding duties of ‘

dancing attendance on 140 ambasi
sadors? ‘

Would the former Chatelaine of
Winfield House in London -— and
the mistress of the 240-acre lush
estate, Sunnylands, in the Palm

Springs desert, want to work 12
hours a day?

Used to running big staffs, Lee
Annenberg could handle the pro.
tocol staff of 42, and carry out the
social requirements with aplomb.

Both former Chiefs of Protocol
Jimmy Symington and “Lalo” Val-
dez figure they had to attend 250
dinners and 600 receptions a year.
“I felt the chief of protocol’s pres
ence was essential to convey offi-
cial recognition and the
president’s greetings,” says Sy-
mington.

“But the night work is only a
third of the job,” says Valdez. “The
other part is resolving legal and
administrative problems of embas-
sies and consulates with local gov-

‘ ernments throughout the country.
You have a staff that helps but you '

have to keep a hand in it. When
the District government tried to
restrict the expansion of embas-
sies and chanceries, I had to testify
and lobby on the Hill on behalf of
the administration. There are

about 40 visits a year, and in addi-
tion to White House responsibil.
ities you have to oversee all the
functions held by the secretary of
state. It’s a minimum 12- to 14-hour-
day job.” ‘

t t t-.

The super-slim, brunet, low-key
pair -— Portuguese Ambassador
Joao Themido and his wife, Lydia
-- are leaving Washington after 10
years, but before their departure
he should distribute a survival kit.

For this quiet career envoy sur-

vived 14 changes of government

in Portugal, from the right to the
far left, without being removed
from this key post.

Now he will become the top ca-~
reer man in his foreign ministry,
or Undersecretary of State Walter
Stoessel’s counterpart. Stoessel
was at the farewell, along with the
ambassador‘s three closest friends
here -- Secretary of Defense Cas-
par Weinberger, his deputy and
former Ambassador to Portugal

Frank Carlucci, and National Secu
rity Adviser Dick Allen. '

t t t t

“It's somewhat tragic that the re-
ward fora lifetime of work should
be held in such a small room,” said
Sen. Paul Tsongas, D-Mass., in pre-
senting the Animal Welfare Insti-
tute’s Schweitzer Award to Roger
and Katharine Payne. He was
speaking in a room in the Dirksen
Building that his own staff chose,
and it was jammed.

_ Christine Stevens, who founded
both the institute and the prize
that was presented first to Albert
Schweitzer, should receive a prize
for what she had done to conserve,
and to alleviate the suffering of,
animals.

The Paynes got the award for
their recording, “Songs of the
Humpback Whale”.which, said
Christine, has helped make the
public aware of the individuality
of the ‘fgrand and gloriOus crea.
tures."

 




. x a M at, real

59 .

“I"? SUNDAYggSTAR-L‘EDGER: February 15.71981
5:: tum magmas wearer/w

£4» _ v _§:§.

. ,th‘ewildlifeartistsketchingafamewhite-‘railed
1,-..” _ M deer, _ ,g.

Sussex arlsl ~ ’
’ - brngs mw’te
W to I.) EP ellce

By LOIS STEVENSON

Well-deserved recognition for wildlife artist Carol
Decker continues to grow throughout the East.

The Branchville Township resident has an exhibi-
tion of her paintings in the eighth floor reception room of
the office of Jerry Fitzgerald English, commissioner of
the state Department of Environmental Protection
(DEP) in Trenton.

Mrs. Decker, who has lived in Sussex County with l
her family for many years, has received wide acclaim ’
for her authentic portrayal of birds and animals in their
natural habitats. ‘ r ,

Hours of study with afield notebook and sketch pad
help her to capture the appearance of wildlife in its
natural environment. “I sketch the bird or animal, take
photographs to record the background and foliage, write

AND PEOPLE ' *

notes on what the animal is doing. It’s a complicated
process, using all my senses, and I’m a stickler for de-
. tails,” Carol notes. ‘

7' Carol feels her accurate representations of subjects
help to foster a greater public appreciation of wildlife in
all its intricate beauty.

She has become well. known throughout the state for
{her full color illustrations of New Jersey wildlife, which
have appeared for three years on. the inside covers of '
New "Jersey Outdoors, 3‘ bi-mOnthly publication of the i
.‘DEP. Her paintings, ranging from birds and mammals to
Ir‘eptiles,amphibians, fish and plant life, illustrate an
ongoing educational series, “Wildlife in New Jersey.”

 

I

 

 

, *l‘II *

, ' Other publications and organizations for which :
icarol has done illustrations include the National Park
. .- Service, NJ. Wild Turkey Federation, N.J. Raptor As- 1
. 4 » ~ . “societienandrNJ. .Au.duben.~.Her..-werkaap , earememthe
.- '4 j .e. “cover (“Of .‘Pennsylvania. Berries and?! »;;.:urkey» Call ‘

“magazines; if . ‘_ M. . . l _ ,_.
g: - L 57' «(Her paintings "depicting“itallwieight species; of, owls
“ Mere featured tin the newly published “New. Jersey’s
.. Owls,” by Len Soucy, fOrmer president of the NJ. Raptor f
f LZAsi’sociaiton. ‘ ' . . . . ' 1
j: j; .. Carol’s work has been in many group and oneéperSOn ;
shows throughout the East, including the New Jersey .
State Museum and the ’Salmagundi Club in New York }
City. Her acrylic entry. for the latter-show won herthe
~...Salmagundi' Club awardand an . invitation to jointhe £

, "club. , . .
' , - ’jCarol began painting only in oils, but soon found
acrylic more satisfactory. “It’s easier to record the de— ‘
, tall I want, because it dries faster. You can get texture
[andcolo'r with acrylic you can’t get with oilgp-it can be ‘
, built up to get the authenticlook of feathers or skin”.

‘ I

*,* *'

Her work on display in Trenton is in both acrylic and ,
pen and ink. The exhibit will remain there through .
February. , ‘ - ‘ ~
Carol is an active member, of many nature and envi— ;
ronmental groups, and her love for wildlife extends to a ~‘ . '
deep concern for its well-being. She has raised many ’,
orphans and rehabilitated numerous birds, animals, tur- l_
» tles and snakes. She has federal and state permits to care
for ill or injured wild creatures until they recover and .
. can be released to their native habitat,
. I/ l/ l/

-. o ,The Animal Welfare Institute, headquartered in
Washington, DC, has awarded its 25th annual .Albert j
Schweitzer Medal to Roger and Katharine Payne. f

The award recognizes the Payne’s valuable contri- "
bution to the public’s growing appreciation and reSpect i
for whales. ~ ' . ‘

Roger made it possible-for the whales to speak for I .
themselves by recording their voices, resulting in the ‘
famous “Songs of the Humpback Whale.” Katharine’s
analysis of the songs found theydiffer from year to year. ‘ ‘

_ Their recording of the humpback whales was a best- ;
Seller. In addition, it was incorporated into an issue of j
The National geographic, making it the most widely dis- .
tributed recording ever made. ‘ . * L :

Roger’s statement on the ethical questions of whal— 1
[ing at the 1978 meeting of the International Whaling i
Commission concluded, “. the values of whalesin '-
their live state make the practice of whaling unaccepta.
able to U.S. citizens on ethical grounds.”

. _‘ Sen. Paul Tsongas (D-Mass), ‘Who led the Senate fight
'for- the favorable Alaska lands bill, presented the }
Schweitzer? Medal to the Paynes at the Animal Welfare j
'InStitute’sannual meeting earlier this month. . _ g ?

 

 




Eeptamber 24, 1980

Medﬁllic Art Company
Old Ridgebury Raaé
. Danbury. CT 06810

Enclosed is one of the Schweitzer maﬂdls which you cast for us.

Please have this engraved in the &ppr0pirate spot an the
obverse:

Rbger Payne .
Katharine Payne
1980

Would you let me know when.you receive this and can give mg a
delivery ﬁate for the completed work?

Thank yau.

John Gleiber
Aasistant to the Officers

 




18 March 1982

The Honorable

Mark Hatfield

gamete Office Builéing
ﬁnington, D.C. 20510

Dear Senator Hatfield,

Enclosed is the new issue of the Animal Welfare Inﬁtitute
Quarterly with-a photogragh of you presenting the Schweitzer
Meéal to Dr. Pratt.

I am so very grateful to you for taking time to make
the award. Ana, most of all, I'm grateful for your true

humane feelings.

Best wi$hes,

Sincerely,

Christine Stevens
President

CS/cls

 




ARGUS ARCHIVES
228 East 49th Street ° New York, N.Y. 10017

Telephone: (212) 3535-6140

October 16, 1981

Mrs. Christine Stevens
Animal Welfare Institute
P.O. Box 3650
Washington, DC 20007

Dear Christine:

Your kind young friends delivered me very safely to the
station, and I had a relaxed few hours on the train to
think over all the exciting events of the afternoon.

I am certainly more grateful than I can say to you and
your Board for having chosen me for the honor of the
Schweitzer award. On looking over the list of previous
recipients I feel "humbler" than ever! I was particularly
pleased to see among them the name of Yoko Muto. Although
I have never met the lady, I was much moved when I heard
some years ago about her wonderful work in that terrible
experimental laboratory at Tokyo University.

It is certainly hard to live up to peOple like herself and
the other stalwart fighters for the animals whom you have
honored in previous years, but I will continue to do my
best.

Over the weekend I will try to get to work on the manuscript
of my speech and shall forward it as soon as I have whipped

it into shape.

Sincerely,

rs’l- ,
$1. {I ,5 ..
« s; C: . / W...
_. an”... :91“ .- ,, ”d" . v I
.‘r .

Dallas Pratt

I; n ‘

£59.54. ﬁx: .5 e 555’ ,§ //5"V13' (Tl. 4/? z" 6.1.43 ,,
x
. ,3

"I? .. , 40/; id.
fig/Z $3L4AA/Vy 4. 1-, /. .

 




JUST IMAGINE...

Dallas Pratt M.D.

Autumn in the Hudson Highlands, where I do my writing, is heralded
by the honking of geese flying south. Just the other day I saw several
of their great "V's" floating V overhead. The fall has also brought
the red leaves, the red hunters,and into my house,in defiance of
Screens, a horde of ravenous flies.I have to swat them. So. the
hunters, whose activities I detest, are hunting deer in tne woods,
but I 931 hunting flies in the house.

Roger Ulrich is a research psychologist who a few years ago repudiated
and expressed regret for the painful experiments on monkeys for which he
was well-known. When I wrote to him about it, . he replied: "Do you
take or prescribe drugs? If you do, be damn careful what you say about
anyone else harming animals because the moment you engage in either
of these two behaviors you become part of the problem Of animal pain-
ful experimentation." I have to admit that at about the time Dr. Ulrich
was abandoning his painful experiments I was undergoing surgery without
questioning the possible use of animals in the testing of drugs,
surgical techniques and radiation from which I benefited, and without
which I might not be here today .receiving the Schweitzer Award.

But ought I to be here, a beneficiary, in a Surgical crisis, of
animal experimentation; a confessed swatter of flies; a doctor who,
in medical school, studied wound-healing in dogs?How about "reverence
for life," or the "ethical man" who, according to Schweitzer,"shatters
no ice crystal that sparkles in the sun, tears no leaf from the tree,
breaks off no flower, and is careful not to crush any insect as he
walks"?l' .

Well, I doubt if Schweitzer the philosopher expected fallible humans
to be quite as perfect as this quotation suggests.Reverence for life
is set before us as an ideal, but as a practical man and physician the
good Doctor used drugs which he must have known had been produced at
the expense of animals, and he dtﬁﬁéﬁ scruple to inject the victims
of sleeping sickness with chemicals/would kill the invading trypanosomes.
In a crisis situation, a choice had to be made, and the "will-to—live"
of the parasites had to be.sacrificed in favor of the "will-to-live"
of the patient. But a very significant insight is expressed by Schweit—
zer when he adds that it was not without concern that he looked at the

trypanosomes through the microscope and thought about his decision to

 




end their striving for existence.

Note this emphasis on thinking about what you are doing, especially

when a will-to-live, even an apparently inSignificant one, * v is at
stake. "Thinking" is a theme which Schweitzer emphasizes (and perhaps
the word "imagination" is closer to his real meaning) as much as he
does the better known precept of "reverence for life." He deplores a
tendency in his contemporaries to give up thinking for themselves

and instead to rely on truths spoon-fed by authority and propaganda.
He calls it "a declaration of spiritual bankruptcy." But the man who
has truly "become a thinking being feels a compulsion to give to every
will-to-live the same reverence for life that he gives to his own. He
experiences that other life as his own."2'

The experience of identifying with the will-to-live of an other, and
that other an animal, was expressed with great imagination and charm,
four centuries ago, by the French essayist Montaigne. "When I play with
my cat," he wrote, "who knows whether I do not make her more sport
than She makes me? we mutually divert one another with our monkey
tricks: if I have my hour to begin or to refuse, she also has hers."3'
This wisest Frenchman of the Renaissance becomes so vehement about
the moral superiority of many animals over humans that even in our
time of animal rights and liberation he would rank as a radical.

At this stage in my life I don't know how imaginative I can pre-
tend to be. With hindsight, and knowledge of the cruel confinement
suffered by so many dogs in medical or veterinary schools, I certainly
give much more thought than I did as a brainwashed medical student
to the distress of dogs subject to repeated experimental or "practice"
surgery. I have a.desire to make others think about it too, and that's
why in my first book I noted that my alma mater, Columbia, repbrted
the use in one yé§%33%)no less than 1660 dogs in the William Black
Research Laboratory.

My accepting drugs in a Surgical crisis without scrupling to think
at the time at what probable cost to experimental animals has indeed,
following Dr. Ulrich's blunt warning, made me humble, in fact "damn
careful% in preaching animal rights, especially to others who may have
experienced similar life-threatening situations. But reflection has
helped me to see that successfully weathering such a crisis may tempt

 




one, as Andrew Linzey wrote, to imagine a "continuous crisis situation

in which we have constantly to choose in favor of our own species."4’
Reinforced by prOpaganda from the research establishment, the contin-
uous crisis theory has spawned much old-fashioned animal experimenta-
tion and retarded the development and substitution of non-sentient
technology.

Let's leave that for the moment and go back to the flies- which are
still buzzing inside my head. I cannot enactly reverence them, but I
stand in awe of their will-to-live, much as Robert Frost did in a
confrontation with an almost microscopic insect, a mite which crawled
so purposefully to and fro on his manuscript. that he was moved to
address it in verse: ‘ .

"...With inclination it could call its own

It paused as with suspicion of my pen,

And then came racing wildly on again...

Plainly'with an intelligence I dealt..."

This is justigxcerpt, but in his octogenarian years I heard the poet-
read the whole poem, ~* ‘ titled "A Considerable Speck", with
greatsensitivity and humor.

In spite of the ability of philosophers and poets to imagine the
feelings of inSects, it might be better to concentrate on animals
with whom we can identify more easily. I freely admit that one of the
take—off places in my own developing concern for animals was when the .
circumstances of my life first made it possible for me to acquire a
dog, a scotty named Maud who was born in my house in 1966 and still
lives there today, teaching me now about old age as she did about
infancy, adolescence, maternity and much else (including driving a
car smoothlyswithout abrupt stops which can tumble a dozing scotty
onto the floor!). And if, like Montaigne and his cat, I could glimpse the
world through her innocent eyes, I imagine it would seem a lovely place
filled with very kind people.

Another milestone in my progress through a "humane education" was
in 1973 when a colleague and I found an untended, dying little brown
dog- a female- with a gaping undressed throat wound in_a laboratory
at New York University Medical Center. I have described in my book
how we telephoned the surgeon who had operated on the dog. He said
that his experiment on the heart vessels had not béﬂtuccessful, and

 




the dog should just be "allowed to die." When nobody would help us

at the hospital— it was Friday night, the beginning of the weekend,
and the attendants had vanished- we smuggled the dog out of the build-
ing and took her to the Animal Medical:Center. There she was gently
eased out of a world which, in contrast to Maud's, must have seemed
both ugly and-unkind. We had stolen hospital "property" and disrUpted
a scientific experiment; nevertheless I learned a lot that night

about callous institutional attitudes- and something about myself.

I think what we did was wrong in principle, but right for that dog,

at that time, in that place.

The telling of this pathetic tale is not typical of the way
experiments are described in my books. Most of them are told matter-of—
factly in the investigators' own words; the reader's imagination must
supply the rest. In Alternatives 32 gala in Experiments 33 Animals, 6'
I have tried to match each of the experiments with one or more alter—
native methods which spare the animals by substituting sophisticated
technology, cell or organ culture, human material (as from operating
‘room or autopsy), epidemiological analysis and the like.

An important parenthesis here, however, is that there should be
more-standardization of these in vitro tests, the develOpment of which
has been very haphazard. The effect of known cancer-causing substances,
for example, should be standardized against "reference" cell cultures,
so that these and similar tests would be reproducible anywhere. In
Britain, the organization FRAME has organized a committee of leading
toxicologists which hopes to start a research program of this kind,

' using five coordinated laboratories. Several years ago Professor
Nardone at Catholic University in Washington suggested a program for
”‘the United States; I hope it is being or will be implemented.

Unfortunately, the replacement of animals in experimental work,

including the develOpment and testing of chemical substances, is

likely to be a slow process, in spite of the concern of poets, phil-

osophers, lawyers and humanitarians, the declarations of animal

rights, the legislative efforts here and abroad, and the funds

contributed for the development of alternatives. We still have 80,

90 or 100 million animals under experiment in the United States.
Ithink of those 90 million animals..A sad, almost hopeless feeling

 




comes over me. Then I think of 80 million. I feel just the same.

100 million. The same. Try it, and you will see that when enormous
numbers are involved, ten million animals more or less become meaning-
less- just cold statistics. But it's different when the imagination
focuses on that one individual animal alone with its pain in the
laboratory. I am still haunted by the image of that badly wounded
little brown dog which we found on a Friday evening at NYU Medical
Center, and which was to be "allowed to die" at some unspecified

and unattended moment during the long weekend. Can one imagine any-
thing lonelier than an animal abandoned in such pain?And yet, although
pain is an exclusively individual and virtually incommunicable

experience, paradoxically it is the one thing which all sentient anim?

als, including the human animal, have in common. 80 the famous question
which Jeremy Bentham asked about animalsawhich was not, Can they
reason? nor Can they talk? but can they suffer? must be answered

"Yes- just as we do."

Which leads to the second question: how much should they be
asked to suffer? This might be answered, as it was many years ago by
C. W. Hume, in this way: If animals are to be experimented on by man,
then they should not be forced to accept suffering greater than man
himself would accept. - '

A corollary follows: If some experiments cannot be performed at
all without unrelieved pain and distress, then the humanitarian posit-
ion is that these should be abandoned. If this last suggestion were
acted on, it would eliminate a lot of scientific trash- like "learned
‘ . QﬁpeffhteCK-
helplessness" and "pits of despair?“ and be a challenge to human
ingenuity to find the necessary alternatives.

A final question. Can we ever extricate ourselves from the moral
dilemma of not wanting to cause distress to animals’and yet often
being forced by the necessities of our lives into benefiting from
their sacrifice? I think we are powerless to reject the knowledge
which the past relentlessly thrusts upon us, including those dis-
coveries which: have come" by a long, dark and ghastly route. But per-
haps it is possible to atone, at least in part, for that murky past,
if with will and imagination we mould the future, and put to work

the technology which.can replace the myriad of suffering rats, mice,

 




guinea pigs, monkeys, cats- and little brown dogs.

Just imagine...

 




REFERENCES

l.Joy, Charles (ed.) Albert Schweitzer- an Anthology. Black, London, 1952.
page 265. '

2. Schweitzer, Albert. Out gi Ex Life and Thought.Holt, New York, 1949.
page 158. -

3..Hazlitt,'W. Carew (Ed.) The Essays gi Michel g3 Montaigne.George
Bell, London, 1893.
Vol. 2, page 134.

Linzey, Andrew. Animal Rights. SCM Press, London, 1976.
page 54.

Lathem, 3.0. (Ed.) The Poetry 2?. Robert Frost. Holt, New York, 1969.

 

 

Pratt, Dallas. Alternatives 39 Pain in Experiments 23_Animals.
Argus Archives, New York, 1980.

 




SCHWEITZER MEDAL October 15, 1981

Welcome to the annual meeting of the Animal Welfare Institute.
The report of the past year's work is in your hands, and I'll touch
upon the main achievements. The endangered Puerto Rican parrots on
the cover signal the successful addition of all psittacine birds to
Appendix I or II of the Convention on International Trade in Endan-
gered Species. We hope this will cut back on the cruel poaching
and smuggling of these fascinating birds whose current chic is
leading to decimation of their populations in the wild.

The decision was taken by a 32-4 vote at the meeting in New
Delhi, India, of the nations who are parties to the convention.
Fran Lipscomb of AWI flew to India where she worked hard for parrot
protection distributing 200 copies of the new edition of "The Bird

Business, A Study of the Commercial Cage Bird Trade," by Greta

Nilsson with a preface by S. Dillon Ripley,-Secretary of the Smith»

sonian. The book was completed just in time to load copies on a
plane to India.

A victory for whales was won in New Delhi where the West German
proposal to list the fin, sperm and sei whales on Appendix I of the
Convention was adopted, and this in turn helped bring about the vote
at the International Whaling Commission for protection of sperm
whales. AWI has been in the thick of this fight for the past ten

years, and we applaud the consensus decision of IWC member nations

to ban the cruel cold harpoon for minke whales beginning in 1983.

 




AWI's fight against the steel jaw leghold trap featured Vice

President for Science, John Beary, M.D., who was nationally tele-
vised on "Those Amazing Animals" opposite the President of the
National Trappers Association with a background of documentary film
showing animals on a trapline. The Canadian.Association for the
Protection of Fur Bearing Animals was responsible for this impor-
tant footage. We debated with trappers, too, at the WOrldwide Fur—
bearer Conference where the Novak leg snare was fully described by
its inventor. A comparative study carried out by experienced Cana-
dian trappers who initially preferred the familiar steel jaw trap
showed that it caused serious injury of 52% of the foxes caught
while only 2% of those caught in the Novak leg snare were so injured.
Trappers tried to claim the leg snare would catch deer and antelope
and that the steel jaw trap would not, but photographic documenta~
tion in AWI's "Facts About Fur" gave this contention the lie, and
tremendous interest in the book resulted. More than 150 copies
were eagerly requested then and there by participants in the con-
ference from all over the world. The book is now in use in 20
state fish and wildlife agencies.

Creatures raised for meat and eggs live out lives of extreme
deprivation behind the windowless walls of factory farms. AWI is
working to change the intolerably close confinement that veal calves,

laying hens and many pigs undergo. we continue to support research

 




by the Farm.Animal Trust in Britain which has had a highly beneficial
influence already. A Parliamentary Inquiry has led to recommendations
against the cruel crate system illustrated in this report. Also il—
lustrated is a debeaked battery hen. The hens are crushed together

so closely in their tiny wire cages that they cannot even stretch
their wings, and they are debeaked to reduce the feather pecking
inhich denudes the hens —- a ghastly result of the battery system.

AWI publications form a central part of its program. A new

edition of First Aid and Care of Small Animals" was published this

year and is being distributed free on request to school teachers
throughout the nation.

Six hundred copies of "The Bird Business" were requested by the
U.S. Customs Service to fight illegal traffic in these exotics,
whose prices have reached four and even five figures in some cases
for a single bird. Customs is to be commended for its interest in
enforcing wildlife laws including the Lacey Act, Endangered Species
.Act and U.S. commitments to CITES.

Now to the subject to which the medalist, Dr. Dallas Pratt,
has devoted so much scholarly and effective work and thought, the
animals in research and testing laboratories. AWI took an active
part in the 3-day symposium conducted by the National Institutes of
Health in February under the chairmanship of Associate Director,
Dr. William Raub, which showed a great need for development of non-

animal testing methods. As Nobel Laureate Joshua Lederberg has

 




stated: " (see IR)

The recent hearings conducted by Congressman Doug Walgren in
the House of Representatives brough:to light widespread abuses in
the treatment of laboratory animals. I testified in behalf of the
Society for Animal Protective Legislation in support of the regula-
tory bill introduced by Congresswoman Pat Schroeder and suggested
strengthening amendments which would provide for members of the
public with an interest in the welfare of animals to serve on the
institutional committees that pass on experimental protocols as
well as the care and housing of the animals.

You'll note photographs taken by Alex Pacheco of the pitiful
monkeys from the Silver Spring laboratory that has had so much press
attention recently. They're mounted above quotations from the reg-
ulations under the Animal Welfare Act and the NIH Principles which
were evidently violated. NIH has suspended grants in the amount of
$136,000 following its investigation of the case after Montgomery
County Police seized the monkeys under the state anti—cruelty law.
The criminal trial begins October 27th in Rockville.

It is of great importance that a thorough reform take place
in the enforcement of the Federal Animal welfare Act by the U.S.

Department of Agriculture and that NIH scrutiny of its grantees

undergo an equally stringent revision. Further, legislation is

essential,and sufficient funding to make the legislation effective,

 




both with respect to prevention of cruelty and to development of
alternatives wherever possible to the use of laboratory animals.
You are invited to work with the SAPL on these important measures
and sign—up sheets are available on the tables.

On a happier note, one laboratory dog bought by the University
of Michigan for experimental purposes was requested by the Child—
ren's Psychiatric Hospital to help comfortand cure the small patients.
This wonderful mongrel learned her job so well, she even knew what
floor to get off on from the elevator when visiting different child~
ren. She was immortalized in the book "Skeezer, Dog with a Mission"
and now her story has been televised and will soon be shown by NBC.
Watch out for the showing date. Here is a case in which a dog was
enabledto do far“ more for human health and welfare through her

sympathetic and beneficent comforting of mentally ill children

than would her sacrifice as an experimental subject have done.

I know you are anxious to proceed to the Schweitzer Award
for the powerful "Alternatives to Pain in Experiments on Animals".
FirSt, though, I'd like to ask some of our distinguisheiguests to
rise as I give their names. Please hold your applause till all

have been introduced.

 




Senator Hatfield is probably the busiest of all U.S. Senators
for he is Chairman of the Senate.Appropriations Committee which
must decide on all government funding. We are especially grateful
to him for coming to present the award knowing that every minute
of his day is precious. It is because of his deep feelings for
animals and his sympathy with their sufferings that he has made
the time. A former governor of the state of Oregon, a former
University Dean, Senator Hatfield has a broad understanding of

and interest in conservation of wildlife, his championing of human

rights is consonant with his desire to see animals, too protected

from tyranny, cruelty and abuse. Senator Hatfield“

 




SCHWEITZER MEDAL CEREMONY
Statement by Christine Stevens

February 5, 1981

Welcome to all members and friends of the Animal Welfare
Institute. I know you are all looking forward to hearing Senator
Tsongas and Dr. Payne, so my report on the Institute's work will
be brief. Each of you has a copy of our annual report, and we
invite each of you to join if you are not yet members.

Animals in factory farms and testing laboratories, caught on
traplines for fur or as predators all are in urgent need of help

in our country, and we are working vigorously to lessen their

suffering. Internationally, our campaign to save the whales and

dolphins continues unflaggingly.

A listing of the publications in which the Institute has
taken halff or full—page boycott advertisements appears on the
first page of the report. As a result of such ads, we are
corresponding with friends of whales in more than twenty countries
to encourage support for the proposal by West Germany to list the
sperm, sei and fin whales on Appendix I of the Convention on
International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora
at the meeting of the 67 member nations to be held February 25th
to March 7th in New Delhi, India. AWI's Executive Assistant,

Fran Lipscomb, will travel to India to encourage favorable action

 




for the whales and for elephants being decimated for their ivory
and wild birds being sought in ever-increasing numbers for the

cage bird trade, often smuggled in violation of national laws and

suffering as much as 80%.mortality in their cramped crates.

The Institute took an active part in arranging the symposium
on Cetacean Behavior and Intelligence and the Ethics of Killing
Cetaceans held last April at the Smithsonian Institution. Schweitzer
Medalist Roger Payne made an especially interesting presentation.

The symposium is being edited for publication in the near future.

It was Roger Payne who was the inspiration for the Institute's
campaign to save the whales}'and though we have not yet achieved
the moratorium to Which we are committed, the numbers of all whale
species being killed have been substantially reduced except for
the small minke whales, victims of the cruel cold harpoon. Roger's

keen scientific observations have changed the way people look at

whales, and his expression of ethical principles with regard to

cetaceans makes his leadership even more outstanding. He shares
this leadership with his wife Katharine, a brilliant observer

in her own right and as dedicated to the whales as he. We very
much regret that Katie was unable to leave her work on the

southern right whales in Argentina to be present today.

 




In efforts to reform the factories that are taking over farm
animals throughout the world and turning them into food machines
in dark, windowless warehouseflike structures, AWI is sponsoring
research on the rearing of veal calves. You'll see contrasted
methods illustrated on pages nine and ten of the annual report.
Armed with scientific data from Bristol University, we intend to

demand a change in the United States such as has already been made

voluntarily by Britain's largest veal producer, Quantock Veal, Ltd.

jig-3 c a -
In the third major cruelty field, animal trapping, though

alternatives already exist, the prdblem lies in getting them used

in place of the steel-jaw leghold trap which more than three-quarters

of Americans condemn. AWIfs Facts About Furs, copies of which are

displayed.here, was published this year in an effort to educate

’1

the increasingly interested public and provide a ready reference
work in libraries throughout the nation. 'lo date, approximately
2,500 libraries requested and received the book without charge.
To individuals, it is sold at cost price.

Many of you undoubtedly saw Dr. John Beary, AWI Vice President
for Science, on ”Those Amazing Animals," ABC—TV, December seventh.
He spoke as a physician whose experience with the steel~jaw leghold
trap includes emergency-room treatment of a four—year—old girl
whose hand was caught in one, and his statements on the sufferings
caused animals captured by this device left no doubt as to its

cruelty. We have a videotape of this segment so it may be seen

by those who missed the broadcast.

 




.. 1/»—
,

Comfortable Quarters for Laboratory Animals was revised this
‘year and has been distributed free on request to scientific

institutions who are remodeling or building. It emphasizes the

need for space, for all too often experimental animals lead lives

of painfully close confinement, and social animals are often
unnecessarily denied companionship. If you glance at the sample
copy, you will see that we have emphasized compliance with the
Federal Animal Welfare Act whose regulations require that animals
be able to make normal postural adjustments. That is the very

minimum. To be healthy and contented, animals must have space

for exercise. The Animal Welfare Institute works to reduce
painful experiments and, simultaneously, to provide comfortable
care and housing for all experimental animals.

- Major meetings in which Animal Welfare Institute representa-
tives took part are listed at the end of the report. As activities
relating to the welfare of animals and their protection from
extinction expand, it becomes necessary for AWI to spend more
time at such meetings. In some cases, we also have booth
exhibits at Which AWI publications are distributed. For years
AWI has made presentations at the National Science Teachers
Association and the National Association of Biology Teachers.

Dr. Barbara Orlans, a long—time AWI Scientific Advisor and now
President of the Scientists Center for Animal Welfare, has worked
to end painful experiments by high school students. This year

both groups adopted guidelines approaching those recommended by

the Institute.

 




as”
The National Institutes of Health is holding a symposium two

weeks from now entitled "Trends in Bioassay Methodology " and igk
W U ’4 {II/Li L 11:1; “:13“ in. 6 / V... K4459 1"“* 'I if ﬁij‘v ‘ "i if

\r

“14-me” Ml

.rnmentvof'the~919»r1Q£f§f%Cotumﬁﬁ fyili Treiea‘ e from,

5,.

a“ 3 H} “ ’ 3‘ g;
’4 hf ,q f 1» VVVC r14”:- ( L 3 W Vﬁvk': V1“; “’55,“ t \ ‘ t he”! ; - '

“gnry_uuwy,a1 will take part in the panel discussion on Febru ry l8th
I on the use of animals in the testing of drugs, household products,

and the vast proliferation of chemicals being thrown into the

marketplace at the rate of a thousand or more a year. Poisoners
have not been popular in the past. Indeed, there is a special
place reserved for them in the human hierarchy, and it is not a
high one. Today's salesmen of potentially poisonous substances
are a bland lot who insist that their products are entirely
:zmd 45.59141 $4414 “T." { 041?" ma {2. 22.4.an1
acceptable.—wenly; inworderwtowave1d”expens1ve~lawsu1ts,~they~

test~their products on animals*in“6rder“towcontend”thatmthey are

in the clearr‘ But these animal tests cannot be called truly

scientific. Even when repeated, they may give the wrong answer.

4-

An example is given on page seven of the report: "Use of bacteria

0

A

to test for carcinogenicity was developed'by Dr. Bruce Ames and
is now being applied in some 2,000 laboratories. It is this test
that resulted in removal from the market of a cancer-causing
substance furyl furamide (AF-2) from Japanese food products 352::
it had been declared safe in tests on rats in 1962 and on mice in
1971.

Infectious diseases have been effectively fought by dedicated

scientists, but today the most insidious threats come from

"products," many of them Wholly unnecessary. They are forced

 




”(0"

down the throats of millions of animals in LD50 tests that require

the death of half the animals tested, regardless of the degree of

agony or the length of the torment caused to these creatures.
niggfrzm

This appalling system,jwhich fills thick catalogs of closely

printed statistics, must be recognized for what it is, and more

civilised ways of providing safety develOped.

Under heavy pressure here and abroad, the multimillion dollar
cosmetic firm, Revlon, decided to make a grant of $750,000 to
Rockefeller University to develop an alternative to the Draize
eye irritation test. I would like to introduce Henry Spira, who

organized the international protest which produced this very

sensible action on the part of a successful corporation. Other

corporations, and, indeed, the U. S. Government itself should

follow this lead.

- The painful poisoning of animals should be ended quickly.
The poisoning of consumers by unteSted products should end
simultaneously. At present, a string of agencies are supposed
to chase down dangerous products, but only after years of slow,
expensive, and not entirely conclusive tests on animals is it

possible to stop selling of’a dubious product. Thus, our society

becomes an accessory in creating What might well be called The

Age of Poison.

Literally tens of millions of white mice are painfully

sacrificed, treated like cheap, expendable, lifeless laboratory

 




-7/

SUpplies rather than the individual, warm~blooded, sensitive
creatures that they are.
As a special treat today, P.J. Benjamin, star of "Charles
and Algernon," who is currently playing in "SOphisticated Ladies"
‘- W . A‘f‘vc‘?
at the Kennedy Center has come out of rehearsal to show us just
§
how remarkable a creature a mouse really is. Algernon is the

Same breed as the millions of laboratory mice. There's nothing

SpEcial about his heritage, but he is lucky to be P. J.‘ 5/ friend/

i

f

j ; ‘ I. 3 . 1 [/‘l. :/‘;

‘ -: ‘5 n 4 W 5' r‘ '4;- ,’ ‘. N

¢ r K #9”? \fLI K. ~.‘ '11:; / y “A . ' I“, .5 pr

I 1 ,- .
and fellow performer. ‘Herewthey are. 9?: ”a ‘5 Q I if

7'

Now it's a pleasure to introduce Dr. Gerard Bertrand, President

of the Massachusetts Audubon Society which, he proudly told me is
the biggest and oldest state consﬁervation Organization in America.

Jerry has worked with conservationists for the last decade while
Serving the federal government. A true friend of wildlife, he is

a member of the board of the Animal Welfare Institute1111ag’

p44g ///C f~f

(Ir/‘2‘: x”. “z .6“ ‘1: C

 




228 EAST FORTY-NINTH STREET
N‘EW YORK 10017

Sept. 30, 1981

Dear Ms. Lipscomb

I enclose my medical bio. and a. Pet News article which summarizes the
work and origins of Argus Archives.

I hope these will give you sufficient material.

Yours sincerely,

X

. ,r, ‘
a .‘
.7 v wcu $.13? (ff/{2’ ”(#355 A”; {$1 (‘3‘,_«~H’Vﬂ ’J’f‘ fl}
,- z, \ ~ .. 4w 2 > r" - ‘2“ - .
t‘ v 1 ' V

Dallas Pratt

r .1- ’(._ ’} Q“\\

’5.

 




.,. u.
in; “mt-rt ;~.

m.»

If

. ” V "‘V' "‘ * A.»
, ,. '1' land“ 4‘ i «if’mgwgw-
. "‘”‘*2”3¢:': FIJI-mu: "i 7~ y' '1

‘1‘}...332 a»; "-3431: V ~12 a . 7 ,. ,~‘ ’ '

.27.... ., '
.513 §

«Ln-hip'

v.

‘ L)
. . _ , g’ 21..” 9.211%?"
,I, 3 . 1.. , . . 7
“LEV” 3.? It'd“ r ’w ; '- , ‘ 2 ,
ml»? V‘Wa‘l $12 ..... ’5”; a. "a.
“ﬁzrnﬁzxs }u4 i:”?“:$ ﬁt. :
“I; w . .24..
u "3.2 I“ V" , "
f€.ité;éang}urijnk*b: " ' h‘

1,3?"
ﬂ ",2 3 . 2
.. 3. 5': ﬂ; f3? {“2
- .2 ~-'« 'rr 3 ‘
2.122.61vawa X '

L»,

.. ., -,- 3 _ .~ . .
. V , 2 3 f. V . 92‘» 4» grin 71,; n) A-

. .2 .. ‘ ”é, " .' ' ‘-- 3 (:3‘ . 4’ x19", ‘ ‘ tn. 1 '

‘ ' ‘ _.f '. '>_. .3 ‘7 l .' ’3‘ i ”1; "law“. ‘ , .

('5 “I; ' I, g' . 2 2
:13. . . ' 1
,1 y M
v’

. 4-1333 (a, ﬁn -
A ' 3,) ‘.,.,.§,,

3“" ¢,u- ‘L

Ka(resigned
1967)

. . , a

r “a” '3"? 2m 1 " "wt ; 2w
T7, {3) 3- ‘an'kl \ . £13,913? «4mm I!»
7

‘j

:i
3? 3

akin);
‘4‘ a».
q i

A mun-.2.“

'2 ‘7
.27 ”f" '13»: M
V. ~3- I;

‘1
9 4L

1. 1 ~w1rtg'w-z‘mﬂ‘1
ab“: 35.3.“: .
a.) unimth

,. - a“: 3 p.3-
, ' 3, w.) m?" ‘-“\:;.;1. 3;
~ m .- ‘ 1 .v". "

.r

I .' 2"". (4”:
1‘ is '
u) . ‘ .7
. It“ ~vrw‘*.-‘.\i"1
.Lrﬁrjr. N

 




On Watch at Argus Archives

 

By Dallas Pratt, M.D.

Reprinted from "Pet News," Vol. 2 No. 3, January/ February 1977.)

 




 

On Watch at Argus Archives

In an effort to keep pet owners
informed on the humane move-
ment in the United States, PET
NEWS intends to run occasional
features on the various organiza-
tions that do this necessary and
worthwhile work. Our featured
organization for this issue is the-
Argus Archives. A most unusual
organization, Argus is almost in-
visible to the lay public—but for-
tunately, not to other humane
groups. Argus functions as a data
bank of information on all areas
of interest to the humane move-
ment. As such it provides an in-
valuable service by providing
other humane groups with the
facts they need to do their job
more effectively. This article is
written by Dr. Dallas Pratt,
Argus’ founder and president.

 

By Dallas Pratt, M.D.

absence. Keen observers, both
of them, and proper mascots for
a watchdog organization.

The missing statistics were
a challenge which we tried to
meet by collecting everything
pertinent to the subject of live-
stock slaughter. Information
was gathered through corres-
pondence and personal visits,
from reports and books, from
articles in the mass media and
in publications of the meat in—
dustry and of humane organiza-
tions. Eventually, out of all this,
a report emerged which was call-
ed “Animals into Meat: A Re-
port on the Pre—Slaughter Hand-
ling of Livestock.”

The subject of the next re-
port was trapping. The title was
“Furs and Fashion-Traps and

1 had been invited to an in-
formal meeting of three people
who wanted something done
about the inhumane pre-slaught-
er handling of livestock. It was
in the spring of 1969 at the
Americana Hotel in New York
City. Present were a represen-
tative of a national humane org-
anization, an officer of-the New
York State Humane Association
and the leader of a citizen’s
group. They were pressing for
New York State legislation to
ban the painful “shackling and
hoisting” currently in use as a
preliminary to ritual slaughter.
Since I represented nobody but
myself I was content to listen
to the experts, but finally I ven-
tured to ask a question: actually
how many animals in New York
were subjected to this practice
each year? The experts were si-
lent. Nobody knew! They ad-
mitted it was a statistic essential
to their campaign, but apparent-
ly they had been too busy draft-
ing legislation and stirring up
citizen action to dig for it. Fur-
thermore, nobody knew where
to look.

It was right there that the
idea for Argus was born. There
seemed to be a need for statis—
tics, basic data, reliable docu-
mentation. Why not start an or-
ganization that would collect as
much information as possible
on animal suffering and abuse
and then supply data on demand
to the reformers and action
groups? How otherwise, with-
out-1 solid facts, could they hope
to influence community leaders,

 

Dr. Dallas Pratt discussing Report on Traps and Trapping with members of the Argus
Archives staff.

 

much less get legislators to stick
their necks out and draft new
laws?

A few months later, two
friends and I created a private
foundation. named it “Argus
Archives,” and found offices at
228 East 49th Street, New York

City. Argus was a mythological
monster with one hundred eyes,
ﬁfty of which were always on
watch. Another more sympa-
thetic Argus was the faithful
old dog of Ulysses, who alone
recognized his master when he
returned home after years of

Trapping.” The report came out
in November, 1971, and like the
one on slaughter was written by
William T. Redding. Bill Redding
had a caustic style. One page two
he wrote: “As the fashion direc-
tor of Alexander’s said during a
showing of fur hot pants, ‘We




aren’t killing any animals that
aren’t supposed to be killed.’ ”
In the intervening years the
groups fighting for anti-trapping

 

legislation have been very active
both at the state and federal
level, and Argus’s Research
Associate Jean Stewart has re-
vised the trapping report and in-
corporated all significant data
appearing since 1971. Publica-
tion is scheduled for early 1977.

In 1973, Argus published a
report with the title: “Unwanted
Pets and the Animal Shelter.”
Researched and written by
Martha D. Coe, this was a sixty
page study ofthe pet population
problem in New York State.
The data was gathered through
a questionnaire sent to shelters,
followed by correspondence
and Visits. The first Survey of its
kind in New York State, it is
packed with facts. For example,
to the question “What reasons
do people give for bringing in
unwanted pets?”, one shelter
operator succinctly replied:
“Moving. Got too big. Allergies.
Having a baby. Chases cows.
Doesn’t bark. Barks too much.

Can’t housebrea'k. Pets not al- 0

lowed.” The publication also
contained a “Case History on

How to Organize an Animal 4

Shelter,” as well as a list of
shelters in New York.

PAINFUL EXPERIMENTS
ON ANIMALS

In a college biology course
I “pithed” and dissected frogs,
and in medical school I studied

wound healing in laboratory
dogs and watched the effects of
poisons on cats. Brainwashed
into accepting these practices as

After a film show-
ing at the Argus
Archives, the audi-
ence takes time to
fill out question-
, ' aires in which they
can express their
reaction to the
film. The results
of these surveys
are then made
available to poten-
tial users of the
film.

a necessary part of a scientific
education, it took me thirty
years to realize that there were
alternatives to such methods.
When I wrote the book Painful
Experiments 011 Animals, which
Argus published in 1976, I in-
cluded a thirty-page section on
“alternatives” to the experi-
mental use of animals. Tools
such as the electron microscope
have made it possible to observe
changes in human cells; ultra-
centrifugation and liquid scintil-
lation permit the separatiOn of
cell components and the meas-
urement ~of inﬁnitely small
amounts of potentially toxic
substances in tissue and body
ﬂuids separated from a human
host—without poisoning and
killing test animals. ’

During the past five years
we have been steadily assembling
information in the Archives on
all aspects of animal welfare
and animal mistreatment. Ar-
ranged in some four hundred
folders, each representing the
organization where the material
originated, there are now many
thousands of documents. These
are marked with a numerical
code which indicates the con-
tents of the document, its num—
ber, and the date. With the help
of a subject index, a researcher
can quickly locate any docu-
ment, examine it, and then re-
turn it to its numerically coded

position in the appropriate fold-
er.

The offices of Argus are
small as is the staff. This con-
fines the use of the archives to
those preparing Argus reports
and, by appointment, to writers
and specialists in the area of
animal welfare or humane edu-
cation.

Argus is also known for its
film presentations, which are
offered twice a year to an invited
audience representing humane
groups, educators and the
media. Each program includes
four or five films focussed, on a
subject—for instance, animal
experimentation, hunting, trap—
ping, threats to wildlife. Guests
are asked to write a brief critique
on each film. 1'

Excerpts from these crit-
iques, along with descriptions
of the films and a discussion
guide, are currently being pre-
pared for publication in 1977
by Argus trustee Ronald Scott.
This will inform would-be users
about the pros and cons of par-
ticular films, thus sharpening
their choice which at present
has to depend on the producers’
inevitably biased comments. 2.. -

On watch at Argus? Of
course—but our “one hundred
eyes” are those of our friends
who scan the news, Scientific
journals, Congressional reports,
or whatever, to conﬁtantly add
new data to the ever-expanding
archives. {‘0

 

 

Working on the files at Argus Archives.

 




ARGUS ARCHIVES

228 East 49th Street, New York, New York l00l7
Tel. (212) 355-6140

A New York foundation promoting the humane treatment of animals

In its archives Argus maintains active files on over five hundred organizations in the U.S.
and abroad. The files contain publications of these organizations dealing with animal suffering
or conditions which affect the well-being of animals. There is a related collection of books,
magazines, newspaper clippings and film reviews.

These publications, or selected excerpts from them, are coded by subject-matter and the coded
material is readily accessible through a card index. It covers the following subjects: attitudes
towards animals, euthanasia, exhibitions (including zoos), fights, films, fishing, food and com-
mercial uses (including furs, cosmetics, vaccines), humane education, hunting, legislation, per-
forming animals, pets (including shelters), racing, research and testing, riding, science educa-
tion, service animals, shows, transportation, trapping, veterinary medicine and wildlife.

Writers, researchers and members of organizations engaged in humane work or conservation are
welcome to consult the archives (by appointment).

Argus issues publications based on this material which are factual, thoroughly researched,
and include extensive bibliographies and indexes. They are designed to help other organizations
and individuals in their efforts to reduce or prevent animal suffering.

ARGUS PUBLICATIONS

 

fashion," and the i umane traps on which the fur industry epends. Summary of state laws
regulating trapping an of proposed Federal legislationg/ e case_against the use of traps in
predator and rabies contr . Bibliography. Index. llgfpages. $2.50

Traps and Trappinggg Furs and Fashion. (1977). The econom;;:/aﬁd public relations of "fur and

Painful Experiments on Animals, by Dallas Pratterb. (1976). The most comprehensive book from
the humanitarian point of view on nimal experimentation in the U.S. The how? when? where?
and by whom? of the actual experime . Legal protection of the animals, and alternatives to
their use. Bibliography. Index. 207 pa “. $2.95

/'
Unwanted Pets and the Animal Sheltaf’- The t Population Problem in New York State. (1973).
A report covering care, problemsfrabandonment animal population, adoption, euthanasia, spay-
ing practices, community education, the role of e veterinarian and a case history on how to
organize an animal shelter,/Bib1iography and organ tion list. Index. 54 pages. $2.00

 

Animals into Meat - [he/Pre-Slaughter Handling of Lives k. (1971). A report describing the
economics of the meat industry, the evolution of current slaughter methods, and the inhumane
effects of "shackling and hoisting” in relation to kosher slaughter. Has review of Federal
legislation. Index. 40 pages. $2.00

 

. Argus's 16th Film Presentationv Jill be held on Nov. 11/19: 1981.

1- a . . . ,_ ~-, g, r: ‘ 1 _
2. 51113 for Humane §ducation , edited by monalc SCOtt and deﬂ uterart,
W a 5; :Hlb 1"." 1h {4% d in 197 7 E3113 an 6’. 11131.31" L3 5:" ('1 63 dit 21.011 in 197 9 o

 

See attached 1981 literature list for books and reports in print.

 




ARGUS ARCHIVES

228 East 49th Street, New York, New York 100l7
Tel. (2l2) 355-6l40

A New York foundation promoting the humane treatment of animals

 

In its archives Argus maintains active files on over five hundred organizations in the U.S.
and abroad. The files contain publications of these organizations dealing with animal suffering
or conditions which affect the well-being of animals. There is a related collection of books,
magazines, newspaper clippings and film reviews.

These publications, or selected excerpts from them, are coded by subject matter and the coded
material is readily accessible through a card index. It covers the following subjects: attitudes
towards animals, euthanasia, exhibitions (including zoos), fights, films, fishing, food and com-
mercial uses (including furs, cosmetics, vaccines), humane education, hunting, legislation, per-
forming animals, pets (including shelters), racing, research and testing, riding, science educa-
tion, service animals, shows, transportation, trapping, veterinary medicine and wildlife.

Writers, researchers and members of organizations engaged in humane work or conservation are
welcome to consult the archives (by appointment).

Argus issues publications based on this material which are factual, thoroughly researched,
and include extensive bibliographies and indexes. They are designed to help other organizations
and individuals in their efforts to reduce or prevent animal suffering.

ARGUS PUBLICATIONS

Alternatives to Pain in Experiments on Animals, by Dallas Pratt M.D. (1980). The author
matches painful experiments with alternative methods aimed at reducing animal suffering.
Describes new developments in the areas of cancer, radiation, psychology, toxicology,
blinding, brain manipulation, surgery and pain investigations. Bibliography. Index.

283 pages. $3.95.

 

Traps and Trapping — Furs and Fashion. (1977). The economics and public relations of "fUr and
fashion," and the inhumane traps on which the fur industry depends. Summary of state laws
regulating trapping and of proposed federal legislation. The case against the use of.traps in
predator and rabies control. Bibliography. Index. 114 pages. $2.50.

 

Films for Humane Education. (1979). Reviews of 106 films, plus pros and cons from actual
film presentations on many aspects of audiovisual humane education. Suggests appropriate
audiences, discussion topics and supplementary reading. Everything you need to know about
borrowing and using films on animal oppression, use and abuse. Indexes. New and enlarged
edition. $4.75.

Unwanted Pets and the Animal Shelter - The Pet Population Problem in New York State. (1973).
A report covering care, problems, abandonment, animal population, adoption, euthanasia, spay-
ing practices, community education, the role of the veterinarian and a case history on how to
organize an animal shelter. Bibliography and organization list. Index. 54 pages. $2.00.

 

To order individual or multiple copies, please detach and mail with your check to:
ARGUS ARCHIVES, 228 East 49th Street, New York, New York 10017

922- ’ Place Send to:

Alternatives to Pain. @ $3.95
in Experiments on “‘
Animals

 

Name and Title

Traps and Trapping; “ @ $2.50
Furs and Fashion ' ' '—

 

Organization
Films for Humane

Education @ $4.75

 

Unwanted Pets and , ‘ Address
the Animal Shelter "””‘ ‘

Total

 

Postage and handling: for orders up to $5 please add $1.00; up to $10 add
$2.00; for bulk orders inquire fOr special rates.

 




September 25, 1981

Victoria King
St.‘30hn’s Associates, Inc.
211 West 6lst St.

New york, NgY. 10023

Dear me. King,

This is to confirm our arder that I gave you by phone today
for printing our Animal Welfare Institute memberShip list on
pressure sensitive labels to be delivered as soon as possible.

Thank you,

Sincerely,

Maria L. Gulino
Administrative Assistant

 




September 22, 1981

Carol Cipot

Meaallic Art Company
Ol&,Ridgebury Road
Danbury, CT 06810

Dear Ms. Cipot,

Enclosed 15 one of the Schweitzer medals which you cast for us.
Please have this engraved in the approPriate spot on the obverse:

Dallas Pratt
' 1981

Plaaee let me know when yam receive this and can give me a delivery

date for tha completed wark. \ k0¢£. {V <Xy\ YR ~9Yﬁ%UEd_‘
In addition. would you arrange for three more medals to be cast?

Wa would appreciate your keeping than rather than shipping to us
upon completion. if this is possible.

Sincerely,

Christine Stevens.
Presédent

 




From the desk of

Jean Stewart, Research Associate
ARGUS ARCHIVES

228 East 49 Street

New York, NY. 10017

&W 53 ~ 9w “ya“?

‘33.} Lam Mm HQ» EJCLGDW
:3 W“ Wed w Lawsuits/k

as hag m Cmg.ma ‘

5 8 REEL/UL \ésw QéPLq-ﬂ MW 0 .

f)

‘ \ SWC‘ %)

 




25 August 1981

Dr. Dallas Pratt

Argus Archives

228 East 49th Street
New York, New York 10017

Dear Dr. Pratt,

I hope to have reached you by phone before this letter
reaches you and would have done so sooner but for having
missed Jean Stewart at the times I have happened to call
Argus Archives.

The board of directors of the Animal Welfare Institute
unanimously agreed that you should be awarded the 1981 Albert
Schweitzer Medal for the tremendous contributions you have
made through your remarkable book, “Alternatives to Pain in
Experiments on Animals.” I hope you will accept the medal
and accompanying check for one thousand dollars. We will
be honored if you become the Schweitzer Medalist this year.

We would like to plan for a ceremony this autumn, and
as soon as we hear from you will have the medal engraved
and set a date convenient to you.

With kindest regards and great appreciation and admire-
tion of your work.

Sincerely,

Christine Stevens
President

 




25 September 1981

Senator Mark Hatfield
United States Senate
Washington D.C. 20510

Dear Senator Hatfield.

How delighted we are that you will present the.Albert
Schweitzer Medal to Dr. Dallas Pratt on October fifteenth.
Your ﬂeep concern for animals will make this a truly memor~
able event for all.the members and friends of the Animal
Welfare Institute. I am deeply grateful.

Enclosed is a copy of Dr. Pratt's most recent book, a
scholarly ené humane contribution to a difficult field. A
brief curriculum vitae appears on the back cover.

Also enclosed is a copy of the letter Dr. Schweitzer
'wrote to me in granting his permission to strike the meoal
in his name. anﬁ a list of Schweitzer medalists and the éis-
tinguiehed people who have made the presentations in recent
years.

If there is anything else you would like to have, just_
let me know. Janet has been most helpful.

Sincerely,

Christine Stevens
President

 




 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

PO. Box 3650 Washington, DC. 20007 October. 15' 1931

 

FOR MORE INFORMATION CONTACT:

Fran Lipscomb
(202) 337—2332

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE

Physician, humanitarian and author of Alternatives §2_Pain
ig_Experiments 93_Animals (1981). Dr. Dallas Pratt will be
awarded Animal Welfare Institute's Albert Schweitzer medal by
Senator Mark Hatfield (R.. Dr), October 15. 1981, at 4:00 p.m.
318 Russell Senate Office Building.

Dr. Pratt heads Argus Archives, a foundation which assembles
and publishes authoritative reports on major animal cruelties.

Now retired from his post of Associate Psychiatrist at Columbia

University and St. Luke's Hospital, New York, Dr. Pratt divides

his time between animal welfare and the famous American Museum in
Bath (U.K.) of which he is co-founder.

In writing about the treatment of laboratory animals,
Dr. Pratt does not mince words in criticizing experiments both

on humane grounds and because he believes manyto be scientifically

defective.

 




Pratt/2

The Award follows two days of hearings (October 13/14)

before the House of Representatives Subcommittee on Science,

Research, and Technology on seven bills relating to the treatment
of laboratory animals and alternatives to their use.

The first Albert Schweitzer Medal of the Animal Welfare
Institute was presented to Dr. Albert Schweitzer in 1954 by
Dr. Charles Joy at Oslo, Norway, where Dr. Schweitzer had
gone to accept the Nobel Peace Prize. Since 1954, it has
been awarded annually to persons who have made an outstanding

contribution to animal welfare.

 




 

ANIMAL WELFA '

PO. Box 3650 Washington, DC. 20007 October 15, 1981

 

 

FOR MORE INFORMATION CONTACT:

Fran Lipscomb
(202) 337-2332

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE

Physician, humanitarian and author of Alternatives E2.g3in_
in Experiments g§_Animals (1981), Dr. Dallas Pratt will be
awarded Animal Welfare Institute's Albert Schweitzer medal by
Senator Mark Hatfield (R., Or), October 15, 1981, at 4:00 p.m.
318 RusSell Senate Office Building.

Dr. Pratt heads Argus Archives, a foundation which assembles
and publishes authoritative reports on major animal cruelties.
Now retired from his post of Associate Psychiatrist at Columbia
University and St. Luke's Hospital, New York, Dr. Pratt divides
his time between animal welfare and the famous American MMseum in

Bath (U.K.) of which he is co-founder.

In writing about the treatment of laboratory animals,

Dr. Pratt does not mince words in criticizing experiments both
on humane grounds and because he believes manyto be scientifically

defective.

 




Pratt/2

The Award follows two days of hearings (October 13/14)

before the House of Representatives Subcommittee on Science,

Research, and Technology on seven bills relating to the treatment
of laboratory animals and alternatives to their use.

The first Albert Schweitzer MBdal of the Animal Welfare
Institute was presented to Dr. Albert Schweitzer in 1954 by
Dr. Charles Joy at Oslo, Norway, where Dr. Schweitzer had
gone to accept the Nobel Peace Prize. Since 1954, it has
been awarded annually to persons who have made an outstanding

contribution to animal welfare.

 




DOLas Prat-t 3.17.

Curriculum Vitae (as of FUD. 1956)

F.A. Yale 1935;; .D. P. E Colvxb‘n 19‘:1- P? Hchi tric Internchip, Bellcvue,

3? .E.’ ..C 19‘11 ~19u2; [1113230 2.1 Corps (mm: Major) 19‘2-36- Str‘f- Per 4.761%2‘23"1

.-ficn:1 Hznts Health F0=1ndation, Philadelphi‘, 19‘L-19J; Inttnzrer, School

1'32? iliucation, 2:5! .1]. 1950-1931;P‘3'C11Lcuf4c (50.13-1113:an Eat. A: CC. for Zientrl

Ecslth 1950-1951; Pspchietric Consultant In ”It Liane 1 Had: c, L.Y.C., 19:1-19513

Issxstant éttcnéirg Psychiatrifu R ocevelt hospital, H .Y.C. 1952-1957 £85
‘nt ALLcndlng P5"chieri L St. Lukc's Hospital, ¥ .‘Y. C. 1957-1965;O "

1453 c} iaLrist, Colmsbia Univ: rarity lac-dice). Ofﬁce, 193.7

ratchiatzic P1;ctice, 11.130. , 1952-19623 Fellow, 1'53 Grit)"; Pcycq‘v» . .. 8v—0~-o(recwgnp
1967)

‘
N

Corn 130:: 5013:, 11.11:. 1,1911»
O
U.
ic

var twenty mpers contri‘mtcd to the pqy‘chLatzi cli erature; the follcxﬁpg 0m
representatim
“' ‘00}... 5c :22? n‘Lgl in 1.37115 it: 41310115.." ﬁxer. J. 335303115’5, Jar '10

I,
‘1. -
a

”Th; 2:2;51 ‘53:: 2192: and the pizrciﬁstrist in com-aeration am; .‘rconiz ast ." Chap 6

11113.15 $31:qu ”:33 Juana]. 1 with Scz‘ibncr, 1933.
*i‘clping L-:- Foreign 941162111“. 511 E? 2-: Yer}: C‘t-y." “ﬂue-c. articles in "i rld I-Lcn’i-z-‘l
25-01:}- (19553, 195.3, 1955) -
".LCF. trl HC0Ith is .2 F'Ilﬂy I-.1f:3.'..‘*h." (I it}- J. Iieher) Chap. 10 in THC-.- Graig
."rily, Pcrﬁnr, 19?5.
”M 13101 6-1:: q‘n'xicc in behavior ("Rd U""C‘--...bh"'

.33. V J. Pattorol Cz‘re, '7in‘ocr ,

1020‘
'1." for: Juan limb." Incr. Le 30, Fall, 1967)

‘V p’
".1“: “‘ ’= Teachers: College necord, Jan. 1901

l») o

l '

Linc-r 31‘! in the. 1-5.

 




25-August 1981

Dr. Dallas Pratt
Argus.Arohives

228 East 49th Street
New York, New York 10017

Dear Dr. Pratt,

I hope to have reacheﬂ you by phone before this letter
reaches you and would have oone so sooner but for having
missed Jean Stewart at the times I have happened to cell
Argus.Archivee.

The board of directors of the Animal Welfare Institute
unanimously agreed that you should be awarded the 1981 Albert
Schweitzer Medal for the tremendous contributions you have
made through your remarkable book. ”Alternatives to Pain in
Experiments on.Animals.“ I hope you will accept the medal
and accompanying check for one thousand dollars. We will
be honored if you become the Schweitzer Medalist this year.

We would like to plan for a ceremony this autumn, and
as soon as we hear from you will have the medal engraved
and set a date convenient to you.

With kindest.regards and great appreciation and admire~
tion of your work.

Sincerely,

Christine Stevens
President

 




MEMO TO THE RULES COMMITTEE
From: Senator Mark Hatfield

Re: Award Ceremony and Reception
Senate Caucus Room 318
October 15, 1981
4-6:OO p.m.

This is to confirm my request for Senate Caucus Room 318,

October 15, 1981, from 4-6:00 p.m. to present Animal

Welfare Institute's Albert Schweitzer Medal to Dallas Pratt, M.D.
There will be a reception following the award presentation

for 150 peOple at which refreshments will be served.

The following arrangements will be needed from Housekeeping:

a. Chairs, theater style, should be arranged facing
the podium.

b. A microphone will be needed.

c. Five tables should be available for food and
display of materials from AWI.

Mr. Tass has been contacted about food and drink arrangements.

' After the award, members of the staff of AWI will help remove
some of the chairs.

 




-71):

3,1,2:

1

72: ii 1'1 ‘7’ {731‘

W 's
5..

{‘ v
‘5 k
(1..., f V

- 5

t .
m
C, .
7‘ x

n. r

\ .
1...
x.

. .3.

t ll”

3

{f3 :1.
‘. .,

H2536?

a)?
{‘2

V
.L-
L

I? 0 $3? 1 :"Z
. I” *1) ‘
1:” (’3 U

‘.
as
>~ .'

.t,‘

4...
L

4.3863

.1

.. a C?"

C“
k,

t-
a:
:3

at

€3.53

3..-

 




The Directors 0{ the Animal \‘syclgare Institute

request tlxc Lonor or your Proscncc

at the Presentation of [LC

Schweitzer rAwarcl {or 1 981
to

Dr. Dallas PraTT

Ly
Senator m a T k H0743}: {at

on TLursJay, Od‘obgr IS
at Four o’clock
Sena‘f‘e CauCAS ROOM

Russell Senate Office Building

R.S.\'.P.

ﬁ‘rs. Roger Stevens

1686 31th Street, N.“ Reception
\Vaslﬁngton, DHC‘ 20007 following (lie ceremony

 

 

 




ynne Directors at tile Animaa VVeEEarc institute

reﬁnest time 3103301' 0; your Presence

at time Presm‘atation 0th time
Scanweitzer Awarcg Ear 1981

to

UP. Dallas Pram“

ty‘

Senator m G r k H: OT'QE ‘ «ii

on Tia‘anrsgay, Oﬂfobgr [S
at ‘Fbuf 0,0500%;
Senate Caucus Ram»
.34: Russell Senatc Giftim Emitting

RSVP.

Mrs. Roger Stevens

1686 34¢}: Street, NAM, Reception
Waséaington, 316 20007 {allowing tine ceremony

 




SCHWEITZER MEDAL CEREMONY
Statement by Christine Stevens

February 5, 1981

Welcome to all members and friends of the Animal Welfare
Institute. I know you are all looking forward to hearing Senator
Tsongas and Dr. Payne, so my report on the Institute's work will
be brief. Each of you has a c0py of our annual report, and we
invite each of you to join if you are not yet members.

Animals in factory farms and testing laboratories, caught on
traplines for fur or as predators all are in urgent need of help
in our country, and we are working vigorously to lessen their
suffering. Internationally, our campaign to save the whales and
dolphins continues unflaggingly.

A listing of the publications in which the Institute has
taken halff or full—page boycott advertisements appears on the
first page of the report. As a result of such ads, we are
corresponding with friends of whales in more than twenty countries
to encourage support for the proposal by west Germany to list the
sperm, sei and fin whales on Appendix I of the Convention on
International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora
at the meeting of the 67 member nations to be held February 25th

to march 7th in New Delhi, India. AWI's Executive Assistant,

Fran Lipscomb, will travel to India to encourage favorable action

 




for the Whales and for elephants being decimated for their ivory
and wild birds being sought in ever—increasing numbers for the

cage bird trade. often smuggled in violation of national laws and

suffering as much as 80% mortality in their cramped crates.

The Institute took an active part in arranging the symposium
on Cetacean Behavior and Intelligence and the Ethics of Killing
Cetaceans held last April at the Smithsonian Institution. Schweitzer
Medalist Roger Payne made an especially interesting presentation.

The symposium is being edited for publication in the near future.

It was Roger Payne who was the inspiration for the Institute's
campaign to save the whales}'and though we have not yet achieved
the moratorium to which we are committed, the numbers of all whale'
species being killed have been substantially reduced except for
the small minke whales, victims of the cruel cold harpoon. Roger's

keen scientific observations have changed the way people look at

whales, and his expression of ethical principles with regard to

cetaceans makes his leadership even more outstanding. He shares
this leadership with his wife Katharine, a brilliant observer

in her own right and as dedicated to the whales as he. We very
much regret that Katie was unable to leave her work on the

southern right whales in Argentina to be present today.

 




In efforts to reform the factories that are taking over farm

animals throughout the world and turning them into food machines

in dark, windowless warehouseflike structures, AWI is sponsoring
research on the rearing of veal calves. You'll see contrasted
methods illustrated on pages nine and ten of the annual report.
Armed with scientific data from Bristol University, we intend to
demand a change in the United States such as has already been made

voluntarily by Britain's largest veal producer, Quantock Veal, Ltd.

i

In ﬁg; third major cruelty field, animal trapping, though
alternatives already exist, the problem lies in getting them used
in place of the steel-jaw leghold trap which more than three-quarters
of Americans condemn. AWIis Facts About Furs, copies of which are

displayed here, was published this year in an effort to educate

.

T

the increasingly interested public and provide a ready reference
work in libraries throughout the nation. ‘lo date, approximately
2,500 libraries requested and received the book without charge.
To individuals, it is sold at cost price.

Many of you undoubtedly saw Dr. John Beary, AWI Vice President
for Science, on “Those Amazing Animals,“ ABC-TV, December seventh.
He spoke as a physician whose experience with the steel-jaw leghold
trap includes emergency—room treatment of a four-year-old girl
whose hand was caught in one, and his statements on the sufferings
caused animals captured by this device left no doubt as to its

cruelty. We have a videotape of this segment so it may be seen

by those who missed the broadcast.

 




-4,—

Comfortable Quarters for Laboratory Animals was revised this
year and has been distributed free on request to scientific

institutions Who are remodeling or building. It emphasizes the

need for space, for all too often experimental animals lead lives

of painfully close confinement, and social animals are often
unnecessarily denied companionship. If you glance at the sample
copy, you will see that we have emphasized compliance with the
Federal Animal Welfare Act Whose regulations require that animals
be able to make normal postural adjustments. That is the very

minimum. To be healthy and contented, animals must have space

for exercise. The Animal Welfare Institute works to reduce
painful experiments and, simultaneously, to provide comfortable
care and housing for all experimental animals.

- Major meetings in which Animal Welfare Institute representa—
tives took part are listed at the end cf the report. As activities
relating to the welfare of animals and their protection from
extinction expand, it becomes necessary for AWI to Spend more
time at such meetings. In some cases, we also have booth
exhibits at which AWI publications are distributed. For years
AWI has made presentations at the National Science Teachers
Association and the National Association of Biology Teachers.

Dr. Barbara Orlans, a long-time AWI Scientific Advisor and now
President of the Scientists Center for Animal Welfare, has worked
to end painful experiments by high school students. This year
both groups adopted guidelines approaching those recommended by

the Institute.

 




-5,
The National Institutes of Health is holding a symposium two

weeks from now entitled "Trends in Baoassay Methodology,‘ and 1%,
. » r- , x . f

4“ kW" ‘3

‘ “" hug“ from

ghrymdmgywwI will take part in the panel discuSSion on February l8th

on the use of animals in the testing of drugs, household products,

and the vast proliferation of chemicals being thrown into the

marketplace at the rate of a thousand or more a year. Poisoners
have not been popular in the past. Indeed, there is a special
place reserved for them in the human hierarchy, and it is not a
high one. Today's salesmen of potentially poisonous substances
are a bland lot who insist that their products are entirely
iﬁqdj f““?“i 5<H’w ~ g «ml? 5:) fie: L 3‘ﬁ a w;

acceptable.mwenly, rn order tomavead expensauelLawsuatsaatheym
testwtheirwproductS“on~animalS"in“6rderWtowcontendmtﬁatMthey»are
in the c1ear.~ But these animal tests cannot be called truly
ﬁscientific. Even when repeated, they may give the wrong answer.
An example is given on page seven of the report: ”Use of bacteria
to test for carcinogenicity was developedjby Dr. Bruce Ames and
is now being applied in some 2,000 laboratories. It is this test
that resulted in removal from.the market of a cancer-causing
substance furyl furamide (AF-2) from Japanese food products 355::
it had been declared safe in tests on rats in 1962 and on mice in
1971."

Infectious diseases have been effectively fought by dedicated

scientists, but today the most insidious threats come from

"products," many of them wholly unnecessary. They are forced

 




“(0"

down the throats of millions of animals in LD50 tests that require
the death of half the animals tested, regardless of the degree of
agony or the length of the torment caused to these creatures.

a ’75?! J V” ’1 2““?
This appalling sysiegTéahich fills thick catalogs of closely
printed statistics, must be recognized for what it is, and more
civilized ways of providing safety develOped.

Under heavy pressure here and abroad, the multimillion dollar
Cosmetic firm, Revlon, decided to make a grant of $750,000 to
Rockefeller University to develop an alternative to the Draize
eye irritation test. I would like to introduce Henry Spira, who
organized the international protest which produced this very
sensible action on the part of a successful corporation. other
corporations, and, indeed, the 0. S. Government itself should

follow'this lead.

- The painful poisoning of animals should be ended quickly.

The poisoning of consumers by untested products should end

simultaneously. At present, a string of agencies are supposed

to chase down dangerous products, but only after years of slow,
expensive, and not entirely conclusive tests on animals is it
possible to stop selling of a dubious product. Thus, our society
becomes an accessory in creating what might well be called The

Age of Poison.

Literally tens of millions of white mice are painfully

sacrificed, treated like cheap, expendable, lifeless laboratory

 




-7,

Supplies rather than the individual, warm—blooded, sensitive
creatures that they are.

As a special treat today, P.J. Benjamin, star of "Charles
and Algernon," who is currently playing in "SOphisticated Ladies"

at the Kennedy Center has come out of rehearsal to show us just

‘ a:

how remarkable a creature a mouse really is. Algernon is the
Same breed as the millions of laboratory mice. There's nothing

Special about his heritage, but he is lucky to be P.J.'s friend
; i ’ ,‘ ,3 \ s ‘ ~ ‘ ff
and fellow performer. vHewewﬁheymaref Lt ’ 5‘ V s"'?'?59f §ff°

'v‘ ~.- 4
”x j; ‘3“ " I. d, ‘ , V V i V
‘ a» -r 2-; ‘

Now it's a pleasure to introduce Dr. Gerard Bertrand, President

of the Massachusetts Audubon Society which, he proudly told me is
the biggest and oldest state consdervation organization in America.

Jerry has worked with conservationists for the last decade while
Serving the federal government. A true friend of wildlife, he is

's

. .4 __{"‘

a member of the board of the Animal Welfare Institute.%gi,ah

x x“ A »

;
_" / ,5 ‘I‘ ,4 r x! .. s 9‘.
‘ ﬂ " ‘ ’ ’, x , i‘ ‘

'./ 2 ‘

,z?

 




 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

PO. Box 3650 -Washington, D.C. 20007

 

 

Dear Members and Friends,

Roger and Katharine Payne of "Songs of the Humpback Whale"
fame have been chosen to be the 25th Albert Schweitzer Medallists.
Senator Paul Tsongas (D., Mass) who led the Senate fight for the
Alaska lands bill will make the presentation.

You are cordially invited to attend the Schweitzer Award
ceremony and annual meeting of the Animal Welfare Institute
February fifth at five o'clock in the afternoon in room 5110
of the Dirksen Senate Office Building, corner of Constitution
Avenue N.E. and First Street N.E., Washington, D.C. You are
welcome to bring a friend or relative who is interested in the
welfare of animals. Following the ceremony, a reception will be
held at which AWI members and friends can meet Roger Payne.
(Katharine, his wife, has not yet returned from Argentina, where
she is continuing their observations of southern right whales.)

The award recognizes the incalculable contribution to the
growing public appreciation and respect for whales for which the
Paynes are so largely responsible. Their recordings by hydrophone
of the voices of the whales was a best selling record, and when
incorporated into an issue of The Nation§l_Geographig, became the
most widely distributed recording ever made. Roger Payne thus made
it possible for the whales to speak for themselves, and Katharine

Payne, in analyzing the songs, found that they differ from year
to year.

 

 

Roger Payne is both scientific pioneer and leader in the
defense of whales. His statement on ethical questions of whaling
prepared for submission to the 1978 meeting of the International
Whaling Commission concluded, ”...the values of whales in their
live state makes the practice of whaling unacceptable to U.S.
citizens on ethical grounds.”

We hope you will be with us on February fifth.

Sincerel , _

(:TZﬁicéZZi:(.C5:Z:;‘41<)
Christine Stevens
President

 




Telegram

. VBAOAO<IIIS)<I-OORISOAO55>PO Oz/OSISI IIIs
ICS IPMWGWC VSH
@2591 O2~O5 IOIAA EST
PNS RB VASHOC EOOOS
I-IOsszzaOss O2/O5/SI
ICS IPHIIHA IISS
IISS P N CNT O5 IOIS
RUS VASHINSTON DC
ONE @112 OEOAIsI 42 PR
UONA
TLXGG O TTAVA ONT Os IOIO
MRS. ROGER STEVENS
1686-54TH ST.. N.V. UASRINCTON, O.C. 2OOO7
8T
. MY CONGRATULATIONS TO ROCER PAYNE AND KATHERINE PAYNE FOR THEIR
EFFORTS ON BEHALF OF ANIMALS ON THE RECEIPT OF THE SCHVEITZER AVARO

. W.U. 1201-8F (R5o69)

..... ...   . « Telegram "

mastern' uniun

FOR TREE. IT IS VITH REGRET THAT PREVIOUS COMMITMENTS PREVENT HE PROH
ATTENDING THIS PRESENTATION.
HARRY C. ROVSELL EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR CANADIAN COUNCIL ON ANIMAL
CARE ~
NNN
IOIT EST
NNNN

.,..

o o o o o o o o cg. o

W.U. 1201 .35: (RS- 69)

 




i

By FATHER mcuaan ARMSTRDNG '
Director of The Christophe"

, ‘ Dr. Roger Payne
Zoologist

' I Preserving the 15- million-year.-
01d species of Right Whale has

become a full time occupation
for zoologist Roger Payne. Since

4 1970, supported by the New York

Zoological Society and the
NatiOnal Geographic Society, he
and his wife Kathy and their
four young children have travel~
ed the South Atlantic where the
“magnificent monsters of the
deep” still survive.

The “Right Whale," explains
Dr. Payne, got its name years
ago fer economic reasons. It was
the “right whale to kill.” But

now, whaling is “an unnecessary

occupation,” according to Dr.

Payne. He says that there is an

alternative to every product

' supplied by whales and these

alternatives "bothwnatural and
synthetic are far more abundant

. than the products that come from

'- . whales.’

everywhere, "'

“Whales to be

Payne,

tused
says Dr.

. s t a m p e d ,
‘ envelope to The Christophers, 12

"but in the last hundred years
they‘ve been killed off ‘ Russia
and Japan are the leading whal
ing nations. But Dr. Payne fears
that even if they went out of
business, they would sell eqiiip-
ment to other nations. “It is ab—
solutely legal,” he says. “and it
could bring about the final ex-
tinction of a species.”

Roger Payne urges citizens to
speak up for endangered species '
like the Right Whale. “As time
goeson,” he says, “we are begin-
mm; to realize that we are not the
star of the show. We may be a
very good walk-on, but. other
species have their rights as well.
When you study an animal like
the whale, you begin to become a
bit more humble.”

It’s a kind of humility we could
use a lot more of. e

(For a free copy of the
Christopher News Notes, “God’s
Good Earth —— and Ours.” send a
self-addressed

E]. 48th St.,
10017.)

New York, NY.

 




El-VZ

pp???" ,‘lni-m : Vi‘i‘i i’» .1 , ‘~ “”111",?
_ .- - m» .1‘41-‘3 4 :1. .414 >‘ I
444 4 . (,bpii‘ J :94 4.4414 .2114..- 4.114.
(51"144‘1415‘ ‘4“? M.
,1, f 4" 1 .9133}, 1’ 1’ 44114

l M...

. . ,_
A , : ,r' .. z
. «53',»
.: {I é
. {N

4 FEB 2 2 1221 2%22. +

 

 

 

~ ‘Wh; would a woman at age 63, who lives.
in regal luxury, who has been a chatelaine
. of our mest prestigious embassy -— palatial ‘
Winfield House in London -- who has enter-
tained the Queen of England and US. presi-
dents,” whose 240-acre lush estate in the Cali-
fornia desert is one. of the fabulous
showplaces in America, who is happily mar-
ried and has had and still has all that money
can buy -- want ‘to work a 12-hour day? ‘
That’s the question Washington has been
asking ever since the appointment of Mrs.
Walter Annenberg as chief of protocol abso-
lutely bowled this town over.

ing to the rest of the country, but in Wash-
ington everybody gets into a tizzy over it
because it’s such a social plum. The C of P,
who acquires the rank of ambassador, is the
first American to greet — and thereafter
stay close to - a visiting chief of state or
head of government; is the one who intro-
duces every incoming ambassador to, the
president, and remains close to the presi-
. dent or secretary of state to present guests at
official functions. The C of P has an office
staff of 42, plus 10 at Blair House, can ”enter-
tain at Blair House and is invited to every .
high-level diplomatic function as well as the
national day parties that are such crushes.
Former Chief of Protocol Jimmy Syming-
ton figures he went to 250 dinners a year and
about 600 receptions, and he feels his pres-‘
ence at those affairs “was essential to con-
vey'official recognition and the president’s
greetings.” -

The most recent chief, ‘Lalo’ Valdez, fig-
ures the same, only he says the parties are
only a third of the -job. The other part is
resolving legal and administrative prob-

 

' lems of {embassy and consulates with local ..

' governments throughout the co'untry.~Your —
staff helps, ‘but you have to keep a hand in it.

 
   

House reSponsibilities, you have to oversee
, all the functions held by the secretary of
.- state. “It is a 12-to-14-hour job,” says young,
; Suave Valdez, who is including the partying
in those hours. , ‘ . ' - *
' . Why would Lee Annenberg want to work
‘1“ that hard? “I never heard it described as a
12-to-14-hour job,” admits Lee. But she was
. fascinated with her official duties as wife of
~- the ambassador to London during their five-.
and-a-half years there, and she loved work-
, ing as chairman of Philadelphia’s 24-hour
‘ ~- bicentennial reception for Queen Elizabeth
F'ST'II. She’s 'not afraid to work. And protocol
j ~=--chiefs tire easily. There have been 12 in 20 ~
years. .
f‘When I take on a job I plan to do ”it to the

4 best of my ability," said Lee, whose deputy
j i' Chief is also brand new, Morgan Mason, 25,
i . son of actor James Mason. “1 look forward to
‘ the challenge. I was very flattered and hon—
ored (to be appointed) and I feel I can do a
‘ creditable job.” Husband Walter urged her

. to, take it and will live here with her. Week-
,. - ends, they will spend at their Wynnewood,
. Pa., estate, where he is close to his Triangle
. Publications, which include that gold mine,
:1 TV Guide. . .

{I

1

1’2

as

va'liﬁﬁ'Jk'u

’ Lee Annenberg is the first chief of proto-
col to have her own plane. She and her”
.. husband flew back here from Palm Springs

» ' Justice and Mrs. Warren Burger. Three days
later they were winging out to Beverly Hills
for the Armand Deutsches’ birthday party

 

[BettyBeaIeisWashmgton— f . . . , ¥ _ _
Good life’ familiito

- The chief of protocol post may mean noth- -

In addition to 40 visits a year and White '

the guests came up to Reagan earlier and

last Tuesday with their house guests, Chief ‘

 

 

Mr. and its hiWolte’r Annenberg . . . .
With former pr . of chief, lloyd Hand (left)

for Lee at Jimmy’s Restaurant on th 20th,
when the appointments of two of th :fpresi-
dent’s closest friends, Bill Smith as a racy
general and Bill Wilson as ambassa, r to
the Vatican, were also celebrated. ‘53.;

- Walter Annenberg was found si “g in
the Green Room all alone the night the

Benjamin Franklin which he gave ”the

White House during the Kennedy a mis- .
tration — when someone walked i _.
..~Loolu'ng up ate-it, he remark , “r “24

nedy talked me on} or it. That woman could
talk you but of anything.”

That was the night that Ronald Reagan
proved he still wasn’t accustomed to all his
presidential prerOgatives. The dinner-
dance ended around midnight, but one of

said he thought he'should leave because his
Wife wasn’t feeling tip-top. "‘I apologize for
going before the President has gone up-
stairs,” he told Reagan.

“I’m not going anywhere. I. live here,”

 

replied the President with a grin. “I am
waiting for you people to go home sol can go
to bed.” Since he was obviously having a
ball, he could have been joking to put his
guest at ease.

Then again, Tish Baldrige, who rewrote
“The Amy‘Vanderbilt Complete Bookof Eti-
quette,” was no longer helping out at the
White House, so maybe no one tipped the Big

' Boss off. The book says the president is sup.

posed to leave his parties first.

ALL THE WAILING and wringing of
hands over Reagan supposedly giving up
caring about human rights around the

‘world is for the birds. Carter’s Assistant Sec.

retary of State for Human Rights, Pat Der-
ian, agonized over, the comparatively fe‘w
political prisoners in Chile or the 3,000 in
the Shah‘s Iran and overlooked the multith.
ousands suffering horrors in prisons in
Cuba, Russia, Khomeini’s Iran, etc.

Her designated successor, Ernest Lefevre .
is the founder of the Ethics and Public p0“:
cy Center think tank, which last summer
published a pamphlet, “America the En-

emy,” an expose on the Institute of Policy
Studies here which left little doubt as to the

' latter’s radical-left leanings. According to a

newspaper report, a member of that Insti-
tute attended a farewell party for Derian.

Lefevre, Who will turn over his conserva-
tive center to'UN Ambassador Jeane Kirkpa-

Vtrick’s husband Evron, wants to “deepen

and broaden human rights into human dig-
nity and human freedom. Why not focus on
the serious, massive, nationwide Violations

_, in the proletarian states and less on the

- gan’s staffers noticed a horrible smell ema

-. radiator — leftovers from a farewell party.

4 large Ellsworth Bunker, who held his first

' ed the Animal Welfare Instit e chose Rog-

  
  
  
  
   
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
   

fewer violations in-the authoriga
states?”. he asked. Why not, indeed.

STORIES ARE STILL seeping out about t
condition of White House offices when t
previous administration, pulled out. Re

nating from somewhere in the Executive
Office Building, and no one could go near
the place until‘a policeman finally found
some Brie cheese and old shrimp behind a

AROUND THE TOWN: Ambassador-at-

ambassadorial post in 1951, was finally tak-
eninto the foreign service two years ago at
age 84! “I qualified then,” said Bunker at the
State Department’s retirement party for Un-
der Secretary David Newsom. It seems a non-
career diplomat can be automatically in-
ducted after 28 years . . . Recently freed
hostage Bruce Laingen was at that reception
and said if he didn’t take a vacation now his
wife was going to divorce him.

Roger Stevens’ wife Christine, who found-

   
  
   
  
   
  

Y
year’s Albert Schweitzer A ard from the
Institute because they have . ne a whale of
a job on whales, especially r ording “songs
of the humpback whale.” i e records have
gonealong way, said Chri .
ing the public aware of t . , ..
the “grand and glorious , tures. Kathar-
ine, Payne discovered les canning a.
whole 45-minute score w" repeat It rlght
then, but the following, r will come up
with a totally different; ng.

 

 

 

 




     
   
  
   

.:; 2‘1 i: "
nappies Star
,.<.i’7’[li-l$. 3ND.

W’s. 3:37.205

”i1;
, 9.).LJ‘ UJ‘

, , i . t,
.nwi- 3 {A} ; .‘
3 ‘ r g} A”;

ﬁre/r...

  
  
  
   
  
    

 

    
  
 

 

,,- ‘ ‘ vi" a,“ 2"." 1'. > ' . .
cart men is - '
' L ’ K x . . ‘ In ~ ‘ '_"':'1"3.’.:\
\ ~I .‘ ill 3.": .1 '.. . _.II. t. .- . .--".- II)
.., ..' .. ""

 

    
  

   

    
     

 

3

~ . . . .. DC~Why would 91a
woman 63 wholwesm regalluxury who
has been "-38..- id’ia'télaineLgbf~57iiiirfmost pr?
“37.34.1810“: embassy 4?}?p‘ala‘ftiél Winfield
' I'IIIO‘u'se.Iinfla‘oridonI-—’~
who "baa-“enters
twingeuit‘he'Qﬁeen of
E'fijgl‘andiand us. ,
Zigsggggtfhswlhgsse . isgIreSOIjving legal and administrative
itat‘ef in the Califor- pr‘oblemsof ; embassy and consulates With ,.
ma desert is one of. local gOvernme'nts throughout- the coun-.- "When.”
the" fabulous shew- presidéhtﬂ
places in America", .
who-is happily

. , FORMER CHIEFIQF' Protocol Jimmy .
'jisymington ﬁgureshe‘wentto 250 dimers White... ,1
'1'"? year and, abbut 600recep'tions, and he. mme '
_.‘ feels his/presence atthOSe "affairs “was " '
{If-.e.ISSentiall"to convey official recognition of}
i' and the-president’sgreetings,” -
. The most‘recentfchief, “Lalo” Valdez... .
“figures— the same, only'he says the parties “ “
are‘onl'y a third of the job. The other part . W

..

were» wing
' ‘ d

“' Washington, 1

     
 

   
 

  

._. ERG 'IS the fir
8 her own
“ flew back

 
 
       

 

  

  
 
 

   
   
   
  

   
  

. lief Justice and Mrs.
' hree days later, they
QiBevterly Hills for the
3’ birthday party for
'staurant on the 20th,
1 'tments of two of the

friends, Bill Smith. as
nd Bill Wilson as am-
”I' tican, were also cele-

WALTER 'NBERG WAS found
, ’sittin’ggin‘ the 11 Room all alone the
inginithosehOurs... I night ofethe ent’s birthday dinner-
w‘Hy WOULD-LEE Annenberg want dance.,HeI_‘ yf Isitting and staring at

to 'work that hard? I never heard it the Miran-es“ 1‘9““ Frank“: Whic“
described'as'a 12-to-14-hour job,” admits he gave to 1“? House during the
Lee. She was fascinated with her official. Kennedy” xiii," 4 r 3th“ — when some-
duties as Wife of the ambassador to onewalkedg”:

    
   
   

 
  

  
      
 

try: Your staff helps, but you have ”to '
keep a'hand in it. In addition .to- .40 visits‘
_ 32-year and White House.._Iresponsibilities,

you have to .overseeall'the functions "grat

   
  
  
  
 
 

     
 
   
   
 

staff-$33 :3?! 2:: given bylthesecretary ofstate.’
-allI_;Ithat money-can - ”’
: ‘wb'iiy — want to
work f1.» 12-hour

  
 

   
 

é:“" ’

, i; If Betty Beale

. daY" 7

o
‘I

'7'T‘hati’s the ' q

   
   

    
  
   

“It’s ‘ai712.-tO-14-heur job,” says yoimg, 7
jsu'ave "Valdez, who’is including the party?

    
 
 

   

<
l'

, uestion Washington has
i {been asking ever since the appointment

     

s silt Mrs , Walter Annenberg as chief of
toeol. .abs’olutelybowled this town

 
 
  

     
 
 
 
  

    

f—"v‘ ‘ ‘ L ' ‘ Io ~ - - . lookinguﬁ.’ he remarked “Rose
Igniefof rotoeol post ma mean ”don (1!” "lg “1911' flve’and'a‘half years , ‘I \\' ’ . ’
Chlajithe'regt-Of the country,ybut in there, and she loved working as chair- Kennedy ‘31 7“?“ ' out Of ‘t' That woman

Iman ‘of Philadelphia ’5 24-hour bicenten- icon“ talk Y‘fﬁt'xi
nial reception for. Queen Elizabeth'II. That “'18:.“

   

f anything.”

wheyeeyboqy‘getsinto"a tizzyx night that Ronald

...<§.7§z;t."s,;such .3 social plwn- '

    
  

      
       
  

   
  
   
  
   

    
      
 
 

  
   
  
  

 
  
   
   
   

    
    
  

  
   

   
         

wa454111111559thalto!" Shes n9It afraid to Work. , I tReaganIPrm'I e still wasn’t accus:

I [I ,1}- II ’0? PerQleiiéhiefs tireeeasify. There have Iomed to Ialh I preSIdential preroga

It“. _ ‘c 7‘9-3'f'.be§‘n;1;21ie.mye52' - .; .5 .. . . ”Y“: fig—DC? eg‘lgflcaﬁgugg

-, 4 he Meth‘gﬂ mi
matter to theaprgs1ﬁengs" _« , raiwhosegdgputy chief..-is also .I o. d :leaVe-n muse 1118 Wife wasnt

   
 
  

ems- '— closei'Tto' thé president or v’

ry ' of state to present ., guests at ’

 

".htanet;:5nen..meegae Nesta. ‘25-; son of “fling "“95 '.‘ 39°10‘51“ for 80mg

before. the g." 3';

 
 
 
 
 

actor’llarnes Mason. ‘-‘

I look ferward to .

  
   
 
 
 

   
  
   
 
   

 
      
 
 
 

  
  

' . It has gone upstairs,”

liztlmtions. The C of ’P has an the challenge. I Was very flattered and he told Re .pg‘. .

‘ We? 42.19“!“ “Blair House, honored'uobeappointed) and I‘teeiican “I’M NG anywhere. I live
tertam at ‘Blall' (House and is do acreditable job'.’-’ﬁ ‘ . ' .. here," rehrwii‘; {President with a grin.
‘9‘? every - hl'gh’levtl diplomas 'Hmbend waiter urged her to take it “I fam waif ’ u people to go home
(ms, as We“ as thenahonaldar andwiillive hete‘Withher. Weekends so... 1.03.115 1. ed.” Since he was

 
 

isthat are"S|iéh_'CrUShes;

  

  
 
 
  

ball, he could have
'- '5 guest at ease.

fsh Baldrige, who re-
Wanderbilt Complete
was no longer helping
rinse, so maybe no one
"5 off. The book says
gupposed to leave his

they . will stgInd % their Wynnewood} pa. obviously?"

    
  
  
 
  
   
  
 
  
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
  

k
‘ "‘4 . WING and wringing of
. * hagan supposedly giv-
*5 human rights around
‘ ie birds. Mr. Carter’s
l,” of State for Human
, agonized over the
9 lipolitical prisoners in.
}n the Shah’s Iran and
1iii-thousands suffering
is in Cuba, Russia,

successor, Ernest
er of the Ethics and
. pr think tank, which

 

 

 

lished a pamphlet,
g y,” an expose on the
Studies here which left
3e latter’s radical-left,
5-5 to a neWSpaper re-
‘ if” at institute attended

' ; WRWWN-

:5 Lil
iv-

{I‘t 4.7. . .. 1-":
In,‘ .3
I

.

SfIc‘lpIs‘e to his Triangle
I ch include that gold

st chief
plane. She

. here from
t 'ITuesday ' With their

I ment’s retirement party forUnder Secree.

back. whale.” The records haVe gone a

   
 

:' -. '2": $12th . '

new of). :

Lefevre, who will turnover his con—‘
servative center to UN. Ambassador
Jeane .Kirkpavtrick’s husband Evron,
wants to ' “deepen andI'jbroIadenI . human
rights into human’dign‘ity and human
freedom. Why not focus onjthe serious,
massive, nationwide violationsin the pr0«
letarian states and lesson the fewer
violations in the authoritarian. states?”
he asked. ‘ , ‘ '

Why not, indeed?

STORIES ARE STILL seeping out.
about the condition of White House of-
fices when the previous administration
pulled Out. Mr. Reagan’s staffers noticed
a horrible smell emanating from some:
where in the Executive Office Building,
and no one could go near the place until a
policeman finally found some Brie cheese
and old shrimp behind a radiator —.
leftovers from a farewell party. .

“Food was kept around in the White
House west wing all the time too,” says a.
former employee. “It’s no wonder they
had trouble with mice. One {secretary
said she had never seen such dirty offices .
as in the EOB. .. .

“One of Cousin Hugh’s (Hugh Carter,
known to the press as Cousin Cheap),
economies was to Cut down'on the clean: .
ing crews. The offices were.’clIean'qutf

« nightly. befOr‘e "the; Carters camé “inf“ ’
accOrding to the ex-staffer‘. “If you called
and complained, they would finally send -‘
someone to vacuum, but generally we
had to dust the furniture, wipe the win—
dows and clean our offices ourselves.”

  
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  

*

AROUND THE TOWN: Ambassador-
at-large Ellsworth Bunker, wh‘owas-
given his first ambassadorial post in 1951,
was finally taken into the foreign service
two years ago at age 84! “I qualified,
then,” said Bunker at the State Depart-

tary. David Newsom. It seems that a mu-
career diplomat can be automatically
.inducted after 28 years Recently
freed. hostage Bruce Laingen was at that
reception and said that, if he didn’t take
a vacati'c’m now, his wife was going to .
divorce him. . .

‘Roger- Stevens’ wife Christine, who
founded the Alliml..l¥¢l,fa.re.Institute...
chose Roger” and Katharine "Payne to.
receive this year’s Albert Schweitzer
Award from the institute because they
have done a whale of a job on whales,
especially recording “songs (if the hump:

 

long way, said Christine, toward making
the public aware of the individuality Of .
the “grand and glorious creatures.”
Katharine Payne discovered that whales
can sing a whole 45-minute score and
repeat it right then, .but the following.
year will come up. with ’a totally different '
song; Roger Payne has learned to tell -
them apart. by photographing their tails ‘
Some'people' might think that’s a .
whale of an idea. . ' “I _

n t

. I ﬁFicldN‘éirgpmer Syndicate * .1 .. ii."

  

 




nousron Cinemas

HOUSTON. TEXAS
D. 324.301 SUN. 413.130

 
     

_ _, ashmgton
, bYBetly Beale

: Why would Lee wan!L
,fo’» wngfJZ-hour day? ,

Hi: .I
t...) ‘

HY WOULD A woman at age 63, who lives in regal

:- luxury, who has been a Chatelaine of our most

prestigious. embassy -- palatial Winﬁeld House in. Lon— ‘
. don~-—— who has entertained the Queen of England and
US presidents, whose 240-acre lush estate in the Califor-
niadesert is one of the fabulous showpiaces in America,
who is happily married and has had and still has all that

moneycan buy — want to work a‘12-hour day?

That’s the question Washington has been asking ever
since the appointment of Mrs'- Walter Annenberg as chief
of protocol absolutely bowled this town over.

The chief of protocol post may mean nothing to the rest
of the country, but in Washington everybody gets into a
tizzy over it because it’s such a social plum. The C of P,

"iWho acquires the rank of ambassador, is the ﬁrst Ameri-V

. can to greet —— and thereafter Stay close to — a visiting
chief .of state or head of government; is the one who
introduces every incoming ambassador to the president,
and remains close to the president or secretary of state

, to present guests at ofﬁcial functions. The C of P has an

:ofﬁce staff ofj42, plus 10 at Blair House, can entertain at

.. jBlair Housevand is invited to every high-levelldiplomatic'

.‘~fu~nction as well as thVeVnationalday parties that are such“
.crushes. ,

Former Chief of Protocol Jimmy Symington ﬁgures he
went to 250 dinners a year and about 600 receptions, and
he feels his presence at those affairs “was essential to

1 convey official recognition and the president’s greet-
_ ,1ngs.” '

The most recent chief, “Lalo” Valdez, ﬁgures the
same, only he says the parties are only a third of the job.
The other part is resolving legal and administrative
problems of embassy and consulates with local govern-

- ments throughout the country. Your staff helps, but you
. have to keep a hand in it. In addition to 40 visits a year
5 and White House responsibilities, you. have to oversee all
r the functions held by the secretary of state. “It is a '12-to-
Kill-hour job,” says young, suave Valdez, who is including
the partying in those hours. .

j Why would Lee Annenberg want to work- that hard? “I
never heard it described as a 12-to-14-hour job,” admits
L;_-Lee. But she was fascinated with her ofﬁcial duties as
wife of the ambassador to London during. their ﬁve-and-
: ‘a-half years there, and she loved working as chairman of
333' Philadelphia’s 24-hour bicentennial reception for Queen
,..Z.:.'E1izabeth 11. She’s, not afraid to work. And protocol
chiefs tire easily. There have been 12 in 20-years.

. “WhenI take on a job I plan to do it to the best of my
ability," said Lee, whose deputy. chief is also brand new,
fjfjfiMo'r‘gan Mason, 25, son of actor James Mason. “1 look
gill-forward to .the challenge. I was very ﬂattered and
?_1'_‘.'.honored (to be appointed) and I feel I can do a creditable '
:j-_“_"job.” Husband Walter urged. her to take it and will live
:S.~3here with her. Weekends they will spend at their Wynne-
-_=‘-.‘.'.'_‘;Wood, Pa, estate, where he is close to his Triangle
2?-§=i1?ublications, which include that gold mine, TV Guide.
Lee Annenberg is the ﬁrst chief of protocol to have her
21.: Own plane. She and her husband ﬂew back here from
'; PalmSprings last Tuesday with their house‘guests, Chief
. ‘Justicesand Mrs. Warren Burger. Three days later they
_' were winging {out to Beverly Hills for the Armand
: Deutsches’- birthdayparty for Lee at Jimmy’s Restau—
rant on the 20th, when the‘appointments of two of the
~_- president’s closest friends, Bill Smith as attorney gener— .
.'._al and Bill Wilsonas: ambassador to theLVatican, were
also celebrated. v' . . . '

 

 

 

V“ STORIES ARE STILL seeping out-about the condition
_of White House ofﬁces when the previous adminis-
53....tl‘at10n pulledout. Reagan’s staffers noticed. .ahOrrible '
{smell emanating fromsomewhere in the Executive Of--
gﬁce Building, and no one could go near the place untila ..
{Tipoliceman ﬁnally found some Brie cheese and old'Shrimpa
'3." behind a radiator — leftovers from a farewell party. \— T a
.. . “Food was kept around in the White House West Wing
:f-all the time too,” says a former employee. “It’s no i
wonder they had trouble with mice. one s'ecretaryV‘Saidf? .
gshe had never seen such dirty ofﬁces as in the E93. i v, 13‘
j “One of Cousin HUgh’s (Hugh Carter,“known to the
- press as Cousin. Cheap) econOmies was to cut down on f
" .- the cleaning crews. The ofﬁces were cleaned nightly)".
before the Carters came in,” according to the .e\x‘~staffer,. 'V"
. “If you called and complained they would ﬁnally‘send
xsomeone to vacuum, but generallywe hadto dustithe
. . furniture, wipe the windows and clean our ofﬁces our-
;selves.” g " g
Around the town: Ambassador-atelarge Ellsworth
Bunker, who held his ﬁrst ambassadorial post in 1951,
. was ﬁnally taken into "the foreignvservice two years ago
at age 842‘ “I qualiﬁed then," said Bunker at the State
Department’s retirement ,. party for Under Secretarv
_ David Newsom. It seemsfa non~career diplomat can bye
automatically inducted" after ‘28 years . . . Recently-freed
hostage BrucerLangen was at that reception and said he
didn’t take a'vacation now his wife was going to divorce
him. a '. . '
Roger Stevens’ wife Christine. who foundedt i .
. .iWelfar. artistitﬂgaphglsg Roger and Katharinehe :31???)
‘ receg. 13 year S I ert Schweitzer Awar ‘
3_;.~;,_Inr;$t~itute because they have done a whale (31f $0}?me
LiggirSVha-lcs. espec1ally recording “songs of the hung b on.
.. whale." The records have. gone a long way ~an [ghack
tine. toward making the ubl' . ‘f b '1: mt.
fth .. _ . P 10 aware. ofthe indixiduahtr
0_ 8 grand and glorious creatures “ K' h ' . ‘
discovered whale: mu l ”l at arme P33 ne
. .- .r i. sing a whole 43—minute score an
omng year will come 1,;

repeat it right then. but the foil

riltlh a totally ditferent song. Roger Payne has learned

peeoplleerrhligalgfflt'bi: photographing their tails». ‘9:
. .. im't““ — '
‘SlQSl, Field Newspaper sﬁdigig‘hale 01 an Nita

   
  

 

 

 

   
   
  

 




THE WASHINGTON STAR Wednesday, February 11,1981

 

 

311m 311111.11 j

 

 

Special to The Washington Star

Protocol Post
A Hot Topic

As word that Lee

--;_ Annenberg is like-

ly to be the next

chief of protocol

was whispered

this week, the

_hors d’ oeuvres cir-

. r'T ‘ ‘ " cuit was asking:
' Would the wife of multi-multi-

‘ .-“1..f1n111,ionaire Walter Annenberg,

v;;j;.“f7hostess to the queen of England
3; andU. S. presidents, reallybeinter-

Quested 1n the demanding duties of '

’ﬁ‘dancrng attendance on’ 140 ambas-
sadorS? . .1 ‘
" Would the former Chatelaine of

, Winfield House in London —- and
., mistress or the 240- acre lush
_, "“195est te,- Sunhylands in the Palm

Springs desert want to work 12
hours a day?

Used to running big staffs, Lee
Annenberg could handle the pro-
tocol staff of. 42, and carry out the
social requirements with aplomb.

Both former Chiefs of Protocol
Jimmy Symington and “Lalo” Val-
dez figure they had to attend 250
dinners and 600 receptions a year.
“I felt the chief of, protocol‘spres-
ence was essential to convey offi-

cial recognition and the

president’s greetings,”
mington. 4

“But the night work is only a
third of the job,” says Valdez. “The
other part is resolving legal and
administrative problems of embas-
sies and consulates with local gov-

says Sy-

_ ernments throughout the country.
‘ You have a staff that helps but you

have to keep a hand in it. When

~ the District government tried to

restrict the expansion of embas.
sies and chanceries, I had to testify
and lobby on‘the Hill on behalf of
the administration, There are

 

about 40 visits a year, and in addi~
tion to White House responsibih .
ities you have to oversee all the

functions held by the secretary of
state. Its a minimum 12- to 14- hour-

day job. ”

etee‘m

The super-slim, brunet, lowkey
pair —- Portuguese Ambassador
Joao Themido and his wife, Lydia
-—- are leaving Washington after 10

years, but before their departure

he should distribute a survival kit.
For this quiet career envoy sur-

'vived 14 changes of government

inPortugal, from the right to the
far left, without being removed
from this key post.

Now he will become the top ca
reer man in his foreign ministry,
or Undersecretary of State waiter
Stoessel’s counterpart. 'Stoessel
was at the farewell, along with the
ambassador’s three closest friends
here -- Secretary of Defense Cas-
par Weinberger, his deputy and

fOrmer Ambassador to Portugal

Frank Carlucci, and National Secu-
rity Adviser Dick Allen.

1 t i #

“It‘s somewhat tragic that the re-
ward for a lifetime of work should ‘
be held in such a small room," said
Sen. Paul Tsongas, D-Mass., in pre-
senting the Animal Welfare ’Insti-
tute’s Schweitzer Award to Roger
and Katharine Payne. He was
speaking in a room in the Dirksen
Building that his own staff chose
and it was jammed.

Christine Stevens, who founded
both the institute and the p me
that was presented first to Algert '
Schweitzer, should receive a prize
for what she had done to conserve,
and to alleviate the suffering of, ‘
animals.

The Paynes got the award for
their recording, “Songs of the.
Humpback Whale” Which, said
Christine, has helped make the
public aware of the individuality
of the “grand and glorious crea-
tures.”

 

 

 




 
    
  
 
  
 
 

.14.
,‘l

on

41

‘ . g ~35: :23“ .5 A
w ,1 1’“ tee-w; .i a. . A rt 3°13
E35133 i.i.-..i§il= : . -- 4‘ hi» it

.34

R Q: ’3‘! , fr- ‘ '3‘ . ,.- ,7 ; _;‘.

"jigigargﬁz: ;‘r,"\.\:-'."i
-_ ~. 1 i: '1."

377‘ Egg... sombou

    
 

n ' .. :1 '52-,
,. , - -i
,. :. - .4;
‘55?» 57,915. ‘- . .~">.

 

 

 

FEB 2 1 lQSt

Why Would She Agree to War «112- to 1 4-H our DW

i" (5
..) 7
I

 

 

FieﬁlyNBeEP‘Y ggAldﬁate “Food was kept around in the White Time to Rest _ Recently freed
Wh would a wiggn gt“ a e 63 wh Washin ton House west Wing all the time too,” hostage Bruce Laingen was at that
n in r H h E bée 0 ~ g says a former employee. “It’s no reception and said if he didn’t take a

ves ega uxury, w o as n a '22 Newsletter wonder they had tr OUble with mice. Vacation now, his wife was going to

Chatelaine of our most prestigious
embassy, palatial Winfield House in
London, who has entertained the
Queen of England and US presi-

One secretary said she had never seen divorce him.
suchdirty offices as in the EOP. .

,“One of Cousin Hugh’s (Hugh 0 o 0
Carter, known to the press as Cousin

 

 

 

 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
   
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
   
 
  
  
  
  
 
 
      
  
  
      
     
    
      
       
   
     
  
         
        
       
    
    
       

dents, whose 240-acre lush estate in
the California desert is one of the fab—
:ulous showplaces in America, who is
happily married and has had and still
has all that money can buy —- want to
work a IZ-hourday?
‘v That’s the question Washington has
been asking ever since the appoint-
ment of Lee Annenberg as chief of
protocol absolutely bowled this town
over. -
The chief of protocol post may mean
nothing to the rest of the country, but
in Washington everybody gets into a
tizzy over it because it’s such a social
plum. The C of P, who acquires the
rank of ambassador, is the first
American to greet — and thereafter
stay close to —- a visiting chief of state
or head of government; is the one who
introduces every incoming ambassa-

. dor to the president, and remains”,
mew president or secretaryp'f

state rod-"resent guests at Official
. functionsf he C of P has an office
' staff of 42, , lus 10 at Blair Heuse, can
entertain a i: lair House and is invited
to every h -level diplomatic func-
tion as W811 .. the national day parties
that are sutigcmshes.

Former “lief of Protocol Jimmy
,symington fl res he went to 250 din-t
ners a year 17'; about 600 receptions,
and he feels presence at those af-
fairs “was e :final to convey official
recognition :t president’s greet-

pugs." w ~

I The most chief, “Lalo” Val-

~ dez. figurest ‘9... e, only he says the
parties are WV ird of the job. The

“be? part ‘5 g legal and ad-

ministrative | ms of embassy

.and consula m-
ments through 10031 gove

staff helps, bu
hand in it. In
year ' and Whi

’

  

 
 

  
    

 
 

  

  

to 40 visits a
. responSibili'

 
 

  

 
 

  

mited Lee. But she was fascinated
with her official duties as wife of the.
ambassador to London during their
fiveand-a-half years , there, and she
loved working as chairman of Phila-

' delphia’s 24-hour Bicentennial recep-

tion for Queen Elizabeth 11. She’s not
afraid to work. And protocol chiefs
tire easily. There have been 12 in 20
years. ‘ ,
“WhenI take on a job, I plan to do it
to the best of my ability,” said An-
nenberg, whose deputy chief is also
brand new, Morgan Mason, 25, son of
actor James Mason. “1 look forward
to the challenge. I was very ﬂattered

r and honored (to be appointed) and I

feel I can do a creditable job.” Hus-
band Walter urged her to take it and
will live here with her. Weekends they

. will Spend at their Wynnewood, Pa, .

,estate,‘ Where he is close ”to his Trian-z .
‘ gle Publications, which include that

, gold mine, TV Guide. ‘ ‘

Lee Annenberg is the first chief of
protocol to have her own plane. She
and her husband flew back here from
Palm Springs Tuesday with their
house guests, Chief Justice and Mrs,
Warren Burger. Three days later,
they were winging out to Beverly Hills
for the Armand Deutsches’ birthday
party for Lee at Jimmy’s Restaurant
on the 20th, when the appointments of
- two of the president’s closest friends,
Bill Smith as attorney general and

Bill Wilson as ambassador to the Vat- ,

ican, also were.celeb£ated.

All Alone -— Walter Annenberg
was found sitting in the Green Room
all alone the night of the president’s
birthday dinner-dance. He was just
sitting and staring at the portrait of
Benjamin Franklinyvhich he gave to
the White House during the Kennedy

 

LLOYD HAND AND THE ANNENBERGS ’
. . . He was protocol chief for Lyndon Johnson '

tomed to all his presidential preroga-

tives. The dinner-dance (ended around - »~

"i

‘\

midnight, but ‘one of the gueSts. came

up to Reagan earlier and 'Said he .

thought he should leave beCause his

wife wasn’t feeling tip-top. “Iapolo-

gize for going before the president has
gone upstairs,” he told Reagan.
“I’m not going anywhere. I. live
here,” replied the president with a
grin. “I am waiting for you people to
go home so I can go to bed.” Since he

'was obviously having. a ball, he could
: have been joking to put his guest at

ease. ~ ,
' Then again, Tish 'Baldrige, “who

rewrote “The Amy Vanderbilt Coml.

,plete Book of Etiquette,” was no.
longer helping out at the White House,
so maybe noone tipped the Big Boss

'off.‘ The book says the president is I

supposed to leave parties first.

He Cares 5-— All the wailing and, ' ‘

wringing of hands over Reagan supi
posedly giving up caring about human

l
\
i
i

, ._ here which left littledoubt as to the
‘latter’s radical-left leanings. Accord-

Khomeini’s Iran..etc., ' x, '
Her designated successOr, Ernest "
‘ Lefevre, is the founder of theEthics

and Public Policy Center think’tank',
which last summer published a pam-
phlet, “America the Enemy,” an ex~
pose on the Institute of Policy Studies

 

ing to a newspaper report, a member ‘

{of that Institute attended a farewell

party for Derian. . '- 1
Lefevre, who will‘turn over his con-

'servative center to UN. Ambassador

Jeane Kirkpatrick’s» husband Evr‘on,
wants to “deepen and broaden human
rights into human dignity and human
freedom. .Why not .f0cus on the
serious, massive, nationwide viola-

~ tions in the proletarian states, and less

on the fewer violations in the, authori-
tarian states?” he asked. ‘
o o o . ,
An Ill Wind -- Stories are still
seeping out about the condition of
White House offices when the ,pre

ties,.y0u haVe . d ' ' tration —— when someone . rights around the world is for the - . - t t' lled t R .
. -- 11 the func- 3_ minis . . , . , . ~ , vmus admims ra ion pu ou . ea .
‘30“? he“ by a; of state. walked "14 , . . blrds‘ carter S assistant secretary of gan’sstaffers noticed ahorrible smell
‘. It ‘5 a 1240'14' ‘ sa 5 young, Looking up at it, he remarked, state. for human rights, Pat; Derian, emanating from somewhere in the
suave Valdez, w y “Rose Kennedy talked me out of it. agonized over the comparatively few Executive Office Building, and no one '

es the party '

 
 

work that hard?
scribed as a 12» ,

That woman could talk yOu out of

n hin .” g . .
a 'Iy‘hat gwas the night that Ronald

Reagan proved he still wasn’t accus- ,

 

pelitical prisoners in Chile or the, 3,900. .

in the shah’s Iran and otterlooked the

multi-thousands suffering horrors in ‘
the prisons in Cuba, the Soviet Union, '

could go nearth'e place‘until a police-
man finally found some Brie, cheese
and old shrimp behind a~~radiator — .
leftovers from, a farewell party.

 

 

 

Cheap) economies was to cut down on
the cleaning crews. The officeswere
cleaned nightly before the Carters
came in,” according to the ex-staffer.

, “If you called and complained, they
would finally send someone to vacu .’

um, but generally we had to dust the
furniture, wipe the windows and clean
our offices ourselves.”

Delayed Response -— Ambas-

sador-at-large Ellsworth Bunker, who .

held his first ambassadorial post in
1951, was finally taken into the foreign
service two years ago at age 84.

“I' qualified then,” said Bunker at
the State Department’s 'retirement
party for Under Secretary David
Newsom. It seems a non-career diplo-

”4.x

 

   

9-19 mm

Whale of a Deal -’— Roger Ste~
vens’ wife Christine, who founded the
Animal Welfare MInstitute ,‘ chose

eager" and "Katharine Payne to re-

ceive this year’s Albert Schweitzer
Award from the Institute because
they have done‘a whale of a job on
whales, especially recording “Songs
of the Humpback Whale.” '

' The records have gone a long way,

, said Christine, toWard making the ‘

public aware of the individuality? of
the “grand and glorious creatures.”
Katharine Payne discovered whales
can sing a whole 45-minute score and
repeat it right then, but the following
year will come up with atotally dif-
ferent song. Roger Payne has learned
to tell them apart by photographing

their tails. _
iqhtAMnLthxatLa;




,_ ., j: ,5» .,. >. r
yﬁﬂrﬂﬁf? %, L§£i

The ﬁcngramla

Paul E. Tsangﬁg

ﬁniteﬁ Stateg ganate
Waghimqtan, D.Q. Reﬁlﬁ

wear Senatar Tﬁcngdg,

O

I &m deagly grateful far yam: grﬁciguﬁn $3 in gr ﬁanting tam
3

,a
mare grateful far

a
ﬁchweitzer Meﬁal t0 Roger Payne, but aven w
yaur vary a fectiva anﬁ harﬁuhittlng W$r£$. Na laak fmzwarﬁ am
warking with yam in the ﬁﬂnate.

in ahankimg ymuﬁ

:1 «'U a "“33" Y
Cﬂilmblﬁﬂ
§rﬂﬂlﬁaﬂt

 




February

fhank yﬂu waxy timés ﬂux ymur wanﬂarful ramarka aﬁ the

ﬁmhwaitgay %W&§§ $g$ﬁm an Thurséag @vaaing. It was an

“wwntﬁtian
hauﬁr t3 hﬁva ywﬁ attanﬁ, &nﬁ ymur carefully thaught-aut. stfcng
$t&tem3mt ﬁiﬁ a grgat d@&l tw help make tha caramany imgressive

and waving. Evaryama wag imgrgsseﬁ with'yaur cammitmant. I
103; farwarﬁttm wgrkimg with yau.

With my w&rma$ﬁ, garaaﬂai %h&nks,

ﬁat.

Sincerely,

Christine Stevens,
preaident

 




  

Feb 5 1981 - R. Payne

 
  

In Argentina where we have been studying (right whales for the past 11 years and

 
    

  
 

from which I have recently returned, I saw an interesting new use for whales -

only this time it was a consumptive use, a use for them in their dead state.

  
  

Some years ago a sei whale appeared in our bay. For several days our hydrophones

  
  

picked up its low calls in the distance, surely one of; the most mysterious and

  
    

eerie sounds on this planet. And then. the calls stopped, and a few days later

 

we had word that the whale had died and was ashore many miles from camp. So we

 
 

we.
mounted an excursion and saved the skletomand’A trucked all the bones back to whale

 
 

camp and stored them along the back of the beach out of reach of the ocean waves

 
 

that once had borne their owner.

 
 

The bones are still there awaiting a voyage to the

 
 
 
   
   
  
  
   
  

Smithsonian. But the skull was too large to go down the steep road that

descends the cliffs to the bay and so it now lies alone in the desert out of sight

of the sea, surrounded by bushes. Last month I paid the skull a visit to see how it
was Egégg‘and as I was gazing in awe at the "decay of that collosal wreck" I thought I
saw something move. It appeared nmentarily in a window at the base of the skull -

the so called foramen magnum, the passageway through which the spinal cord communicates

 

with the brain. A few mments later I saw it again. it was the face of a mouse.
bramccxba

She had built her nest in the We of the whale — afnuch more exotic consumptive

use for a whale than any we humans have concocted. I felt too that it was a noble

transaction between a mouse and a whale. In exchange for the shelter that had once

   

housed the whale' s vaunted and enigmatic mind the lady mouse had filled that now

 
 

vacant chamber with a whﬂg’e brood of smaller, more compact intelligences and then

  
  

stuffed in a hatfull of twigs and grass to make up for any shortfalls we might

 
 

otherwise have perceived.

 

Could the mind of the mouse possibly comprehend what an extraordinary sanctuary

 

she had selected for her nest?

 
 

Inside the allegory filled cave of the whale's skull

  




could she imagine sunless worlds beneath the sea, filled with slowly wheeling galaxies of . w
phosphorescence; or 6,000 mile migrations; or towering icebergs? No matter it was good,
solid housing. I dont fault the mouse's useof the skull 1 because, after all) she chanced
upon it quite by accident, But it is curious how mundane even the most exotic
uses are to which mammals, ourselves included, put whales. It is as if we had a lapse of
spirit and could not figure out how to profit from cultures other than our own.
At least our own species is now reaching tentatively out in efforts to contact the
‘ people of the sea; whether it can be done before we develop some new consumptive: '2 . ;-
use remains to.:be. seen.

"What happens to beasts will happen to man. All things are connected.

If the great beasts are gone men would surely die of a great lonliness

of spirit"

That remarkable statement (made in 1884 by Chief Seattle) expresses exactly what I

r - \
sense will be the greatest loss [when the great beasts are gone, when we are con—
demned to live in the unspeakably boring world of our own creation forever.

In Argentina I have felt each year a great lonliness of spirit when the whales

ﬁﬁhm Ls,
leave the bay and )2} returns to silence and erptiness.‘ It um hard to

(Jude; -
convey that feeling but when the?” are there and our days are spent watching

them breaching, spouting, swimming, courting, sailing, pushing and shoving --‘

' Aka/x
all at their majestic, glacial pace; or I see then suspended and floating in the

A

shallows, great cloud-like beings moving only a yard or so each hour, drifting
with currents too slow to perveive, my spirits soar and I am moVed in a way
that nOthing which is smaller can ever moveme.

And then canes the day - usually in mid December - when I awaken and look out across
_ the bay and see nothing. They are gone —- they have departed inthe night and I
am left behingl. Immediately the bay looses its mystery, its allure. It is no longer
unique but just like any other bay/{figther a drab one at that. I feel peeYish and

' irritated, nothing seems quite right. I sink back and become mired in the annoying

 




-3...
RA Ni” ’5.
detail of live. AI feel, I suppose, A"a great lonliness of spirit"

It is because whales are such grand and glowing creatures, because they are
"camensurate with man's capacity for wonder" that their deaths for commerce
degrade us so. It will confound our descendents. We are the generation that searched
on Mars for evidence of life but we couldnt. rouse enough moral sense to stop the
destruction of even the grandeSt manifestations of life on earth. In that sense we are l'
the Romans whose works of art, architecture and engineering inspire our awe but whose
traffic in slaves and gladitorial combat we find mystifying and loathesdne.

Because whales now has so many advocates and have taken on an international
lustre, they have also attracted opponents among those from whom they might usually
expect support. We are told we are wasting too much time on such a glamorous species
while myriad lesser known ones cry out for attention. And that is of course partly
true. . . .But there is a vastly pratical reason for focussing one's efforts on saving
_ a major species. This is because if one wishes to save the apex of a pyramid, he
must save the whole pyramid. If we can set aside enough of the oceans to ensure an,

viable whale population we will be able to ensure an
abundance of everything on which the whales feed and through which they swim.

The whale then truly becomes the king of the seas. The world of man having realized

the importance of saving the king saves all of his subjects because the king has
existence only insdnuch as he has subjects; much as the whale has existence
only insomuch as it has the rest of the pyramid that supports it.

The irreducible minimum ecosystem is a food pyramid with a single ultimate .
predator on top. But it is a doomed ecosystem unless enough such pyramids are preserved
to ensure the perpetuity of the ultimate predator. The only way to achieve this is
To ensure the success of many pyramids which means we must set aside large sanctuaries -
the larger the better. In this sense a whale does not exist apart from its
pyramid. It is wwith the pyramid - it is the pyramid. It is much the same with kings.
The word king defines an office not a given individual. A king who has lost his

subjects and been dethroned has no meaningful existence. He is like anybody else -

 




-4-

lost in the crowd and soon forgotten. It is therefore a good strategy, I feel,
to focus on animalé and plant kings and to guarantee their kingdczms - just what we
have learned £19; to do in human societies.

While on the subject of kings and pyramids I want to look at the entire world
of, intersecting, interlocking, interacting, interlacing pyramids - the whole of
life on earth. Years ago the concept was advanced that integrated animal societies
‘ which are made up of individual organisms such as ant colonies are in fact a single
entity or "super—organism" as it was labelled. It now seems reasonable to many of us
that a totality of organisms and super organisms combine to create a super-super-
organisrm —— the whole of life on earth. The elements of this super—super—organism
though individually mortal are collectively immortal,and the laws that govern them
are natural laws.

It is to this immortal oneness -‘-.to the totality of life --: that I find

. myself praying. _ Would it therefore be outrageous to call these mortal elements that

become immortal and are interconnected each to every other JGod? And to call the
immutable laws that explain them God's . laws? WhenTI make this deduction several
things fit immediately into place: The rage I feel when species are destroyed is
understandable, for the destruction of any element in the totality is a blow

struck directly at the God I worship. It also lays to rest the myth of the two
cultures the so—called dichotomy between arts and sciences. It points out that
through science (and not just through faith) we learn about God --that as a means

I of knoWing the works of God science cam be superior to faith. For it allows us to bead:
a direct path to%,always staying on course and never being diverted no matter how
slowly we make progress. In fact, it suggests that rather than being at odds

with religion, science could be its strongest ally. One might even say that as a
means of understanding the works of God, science is what religion has been praying for.

I have long felt that the love of all life on earth (a concept that is inter-

changeable with the wor conservation) needs to be written into our religions -- is

 




in fact overdue to become a religion in its own right. Should this come to pass
this religion will have science at its root. We should not fear that process or
feel that science is somehow an inadequate base upon which to build? religionS,
On the contrary science can provide insights. as deep (perhaps deeper) than those that

come through faith. Science can uplift the soul, give our spirit wings and

teach it how to soar. In my own experience I have found that at their best the

revelations of science are as uplifting, as inspiring ,0 as the best of art. Though
I am not a card—carrying artist I am a cello carrying musician and have at several
periods g my life spent more time playing chamber music than I have doing science.
And, although there is nothing I have enjoyed more than music it is only honest to
admit that even the quintessential ecstasy of , for example, the slow movement

of opus 59 #1 (or the entirety of the late Beethoven Quartets) does not exceed the
sense of wonder I have felt when contemplating black holes or drifting continents ,
or replicating molecules , or the spontaneous origin of life , or even, dare I say it,
whale songs. . In fact these discoveries when you place tham alongside religion and music
have a certain oneness W. They are distinct creations of different
intellects all housed inside an overarching intelligence called life-on—earth. In
this sense they are like those mice growing up inside the overarching apse of the
whale' 5 skull. ’

I have taken this detour concerning science because I wished to set the .role of scien
in conservation into a new light. We have long recognized its essential value for
resolving conflicts over how a species shall be managed (lag; forinstancencﬁukdtas shall be
set). But that is just its journeyman's duty, we cannot ever hope to inspire any
major changes in how species are viewed, — and hence treated, unless we can inspire
our own species with the magnitude of what will be lost ig' we fail'to act. The
only route we @2392 use to make the kinds of diSCOveries that will inspire us
to action is through science — the best means man has yet devised to learn about

V‘ {1‘ 'I\"' A A
the cosmos. If we can fire the imaginations of the /world on behals of non-haven

life we can inspire a constituency for the wild world which will not accept jury

 




-6...
rigs and band aids to cure what is in fact massive henorraging from rampant greed,
but will insteaé rise roaring to its feet and demand the rights of all life on

earth. If mankind can progress that far and recognize that it is not the master of

ceremonies but just another pretty face among a million other beguiling species, and

ahzuk
that all of. us species have bit parts - crucial bit parts A— and that it is no disgrace

to limit oneself to a well played bit part -- then the show can go on. If this

ever comes to pass we will be living in a more enlightened world and will not be facing

the prospect of dying frcm lonliness of spirit.

 




SCHWEITZER MEDAL CEREMONY
Statement by Christina Stcvono

Fabruary 5, 1981

wolcome to all members and friends of the Animal Wolfare
Institute. I know you are all looking forwaré to hearing Senator
Tsongas and Dr. ?ayne, $0 my report on the Institute’s work will

be brief» Each of you has a copy of our annual roport, ana wo

invite each of you to join if you are not yet members.

Animals in factory farms and testing laboratories, caught on
traplincs for fur or as predators all are in urgent need of holp
in our country, and we are working vigorously to lessen thoir
suffering. Internationally, our campaign to save the whalos and
‘ dolphins continues unflaggingly.

A listing of the publications in Which the Institute has
taken half— or full-page boycott aﬂvertisemonts apgears on the
first page of the report. As a result of such ads, we are
corresponding with friends of whales in more than twenty countries
to encourage supper: for the proposal by west Germany to list the
sperm, sei and fin whales on Appendix I of the Convention on
International Trade in Endangered Species of‘Wild Fauna and Flora
at the moéting of the 67 member nations to be held Fcbruary 25th
to March 7th in New Delhi. India. AWI'S Executive Assistant,

Fran Lipscomb, will travel to India to encourage favorable action

 




for the whales and for elephants being aeoimatea for their ivory
and wild birds being sought in ever~incroasing nuﬁbors for tho
cogo bird trade, oftoo omugglaa in violation of national Iowa and
suffering as much as 80%;mortality in ﬁheir cramped crates.

The Institute took an active gar: in arranging the symposium
on Cotaooan Behavior and Intelligence and the Ethics of Killing
Cotaooans held last April at the Smithsonian Institution. Sohwoitzer
Nodalist Roger Payne maﬁa an especially interesting presentation.
The sympoaium is being edited for publication in the near future.

In-offorto to reform the factories that are taking over farm
anlmals Ehroughout the world and turning them into fooa machines
in ﬁark, windowless warehousowlike struoturaa. AW! is Sponsoring
research on the roaring of veal calvas. You‘ll see contrasted
methods illuatrateé on pages nine and ten of the annual report.
Armed with aoiantific data from Bristol university. we intend to
demand a change in the Uhited~$tates such 33 has already been made
voluntarily by Britain's largest veal producer. Quantook VBal, Lta.

The National Institutes of Hoalth is holding a sympoaium two
weeks from now entitled “Trends in Bioasaay Mﬂthodology,“‘w
the a GOVermngaf tha gimetafcclﬂ?w,- ‘
jury aoty, I will take part in the panel discussion on February 18th

on the use of animals in the testing of drugs, household products.

and the vast proliforation of ohemicals being thrown into the

 




*3“

mmxketplace at the rate of a thausand or meta a yaar. Paisanara

hava not been popular in the past. Inﬂaeﬂ, thara is a special

placa renervad for them in the human hierardhy, anﬁ it is nut a
high one. Today‘3 salesmen cf patentially pciaonaus substanaea
are a bland lot wha insist thaﬁ thair products are antizaly
acceptable. Only, in Order to avoid expansiva lawauits, they
test their products an animals in ordar ta contend that thay are
in tha clear. But these animal tests cannat ha called truly
sciantific. Even when repeatad, thay may giva the wrung anawar.
An example is given an page seven of tha report: "use of bactaria
to test for carcinogenicity was devalcped"by Dr. Bruce Amas and
is naw'being appliad in sama 2.000 laboratorias. It is this test
that resulted in removal from ﬁne market af a cancer~causing
substance furyl furmmide (AFhZ) from4Japauese £006 products aftar
it had been declared aafe in tasks on rats in 1962 and an miae in
1971.”

Infectious diseaaea have been effectively fought by aedicatad
‘sciantiata,‘but today the moat insidious threats coma Exam
'”proaucta,” many of them'wholly unnecassary. They are forced
down the threats of millicns of animals in LDSO tests that raquira
the death of‘half the anﬂmals egateé. ragardlass of tha dagr$a of
agcny or the length of the torment cauaad to these creaturea.

This appalling system, whiah £1115 thick catalags of closely

 




.printad statistics, must ha raccgnixad is: what it is, ané mora
aivilized wayg af pxaviding saf&ty ﬁevalsped.

Uhdar'haavy pxa$sure here and abread, the multimillioﬁ dollar
aasmatic firm, Ravlcn. ﬁaeiﬂea ta maka a grant sf $750,000 ta
Rmekefellar University to davelap an alternative ta the Draize
eya irritatian task. I vauld like to intrcduca Hanry'spira, who
argahiaeﬁ the internatianal pratest whidh preducad this very
ﬁensihle actian an the part 9f a succwssful caryoratien. Oﬁher
carparatiena. ané. indegd. the U. S. savernmant itself Shcula
fallGW‘thiﬁ laaé.

The painful paisening 9f animals shanld‘ba ended quiékly.
The poisaning of consumgrs by untested greducts abould and
simultaneoqsly. At present, a string of agencies are supgesed
ts ahase down dangetoua praducts. but anly after years of slaw,
expensive, and nct entirelycancluaiva tests on animals is it
gasaible to stap selling 0f a aubiaua preduet. whus. our sociaty
becnmﬁa an acceasary in ¢réating'what might well be called The
Age of Poison.

In “ﬁg thifd maﬁa: gruelty field; animal trapping, though
A aiternativea already axist; Eha prOblem lies in getting them used
in placa oﬁ the stee1~jaw*1eghald trap which more than three~quarters

of Amaricana candemn. AWI's Facts Abaut Furs, copies of «high are

diaplayad here, was pdbliahed this year in an effort ta educata

 




-5-

tha increasingly intareatad public and previde a reaéy reference

wark in lipraries thraughcut the natiaa. Tc ﬁate, appraximately
2.506 libraries raquastea and racaiveﬁ the beak without dharga.
Tm individuals, it is-aal¢ at coat price.

Many of you undoubtedly saw'DrguJahn Beary, AWI‘Vica Presiﬁentr
for Scianca. on “Thcaa ﬁmaaing Animala,“ ABC~TV. December aeventh.
He spdké as a physician Whaae éxperiance with the ateeleaW'lﬁghald
trap includes amargeney~raam treatment of a fourwyearmald girl
'whase hand was caught in one, and his statements an the suffaringa
causea animals capturea by thia aeviee 15ft nc doubt as to its
crualty. aw have a vidaotape of ﬁhis segmant ac ittmay be seam
by thcsg whc missed the broadcast.

Cam£0rtable Quartera.§gg,baboratogx Animals was reviaad Ehis
year and has been distributed free on request to scientific
institutions who are remoéaling 0r builéing. It emphasizes the
need for space, for all ten often experimental animals leaa lives
of painfully cloaa confinement, and social animalg are often
unnecessarily danied comyanicnship. If you glance at the sample
copy, you will see that ww‘have amphasizad campliance with ﬁne
Feéaral Animal welfare Act whose regulatians requirethat animals
be able to make normal pastural adjustments. That is the very

minimum. Tb be healthy and cantanted, animals must have space

 




-5“

for exercise. The Animal welfare Institute worka t0 reduce
painful exparimﬂnts anﬁ. simultaneausly, ta pravide comfortable
rearﬁ and housing for all axPerimental animals.

Majcr meetings in whidh Animal walfare Institute rapresentau
tivas.tadk part are listed at the end cf the report. As activities
relating to the walfare of.animals and their protection from
extinctian expand, it bacames necessary for AW! t0 spené more
time at such maetings. In 50mg eases, wa 3186 have heath
eXhibits at Which AW! §ﬁh1ications are distribut&d. Far years
AW! has made presentatians at the Natianal Science Teaahers
Asaaciation and the Ratimnal Associaticn 0f Biology Taadhers.

Dr. Barbara Orlans, a lcngwtime 3W1 Scientific Advisor and new
President cf the Scientists Center for Animal walfare, has wnrkeﬁ

ta end painful expariments'by high schoal gtuéents. This year

‘both greups adopted gaidelines approaching ﬁhose recommended by

tha Instituta.

It was Roger Payna whe was the insyiratioh for ﬁhe Institute’a
campaign t9 gava the whales; and though wa have not yet achieved
the moratorium ta which ww are ccmmitted, the nuMbara of all whale
apeciaa being killed have beeﬁ aubstantially reduced except for
the small minke whales, victims of the cruel cold.harpaon. Roger‘s
keen scientific dbservations have changed the way people 160k at

whalea, and his expression of ethical principles with regard to

 




. -7”

cataceans makes his lﬁadership even mare outatanﬁing. Ha shares

this leadership with 3113 wife Katharina, a brilliant observer
in bar awn right and as dedicated tn the whales 35 he. we very
mueh regret fhat Katia was unable t5 laave hﬁr'work 0n the
souﬁhern right whales in Argentina to ba present tcéay.

I knaw ycu are all impatiant t9 hear item Senate: Paul
Tsongas cf Massadhuaetts, whcge leadershig in obtaining enactmant
of the Alaskan Lands Bill is wall knawn ta all of you. Senatax
Tsangas aaserves our gratitude for praviding habitat for so many
wiles ereatums thrauqh his hard and earnest affarts.

Senate: Tsongaswu

 




February 6, 1981

'Mr. William S. Beamiah, Jr.
5182 Barman Drive
San Diega, California 92115

Dear.Mr. Beamish:

It was good t0 hear again about your grandmother, Mrs.
Gecrgia Goodridh, with whom I as much enjoyed corras~
pending. She certainly ha& a wonderful spirit, and her
wiéh to attand the Sdhweitzer meaal Ceremcny at the age
9f 98 certainly showad the strength of her feeling for
animals. _ .v

I knaw you were too far away to attend, but I thought
you might like to have this announcement about the
Fébruary 5th ceremony.

with kind regards and best wighea,

Sincerely.

Christine Stevens
Secretary

CS:lh

Enclosure

 




‘Nm. 5. Beamish, Jr.
5182 Dorman Drive
San Diego, CA 92115

December 24, 1980

Mrs. Christine Stevens

Society For Animal Protective Legislation
P. O. Box 3719

Georgetown Station

Washington, D.C. 20007

Dear Mrs. Stevens:

I was delighted to read recently the wonderful write-up about
you and Mr. Stevens which appeared in a special section of
The Christian Science Monitor. My only regret was that my
Grandmother, Mrs. Georgia Goodrich, an avid reader of The
Monitor for so many years, could not have had the pleasure

of seeing you appear there. ' -

As you may recall, she was a dedicated supporter of the
activities carried on by your group, and she always genuinely
appreciated the thoughtfulness of the letters you took the
time to write her. Indeed, we all appreciate it.

One of the family stories is about "Nan" who got an invita-
tion to attend the Albert Schwitzer Award given to Justice
Abe Fortess when she was in her 98th year. It seems she
took my wife aside in great confidentiality and informed her
that she had these tickets sent by Mrs. Stevens, and that
she would appreciate it if my wife would take the time to

go out and get a special ensemble for the occasion because
she planned to attend. While she did not attend, she cer-
tainly was there in spirit and for many years after that.

I, too, want to extend my thanks for the good work you and
everyone else back there is doing on behalf of animals.
The progress we make in this direction has to make us feel
better as human beings. Best regards.

222?:fi2:?
m. S. Beag%:hjfg;§\

 




 

ANIM A1,

 

PO. Box 3650 Washington, DC. 20007 February 2, 198,1

 

FOR MORE INFORMATION CONTACT:

Fran Lipscomb
John Gleiber
(202) 337—2332

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE '

Dr. Roger Payne, foremost observer of whale behavior,
and his wife Katharine, famed for their best—selling
recording ”Songs of the Humpback Whale” will be awarded
Animal Welfare Institute's Albert Schweitzer medal by
Senator Paul Tsongas (D., Ma.), February 5, 1981, at 5:00 p.m.
5110 Dirksen Senate Office Building.

Dr. Payne has spent 25 years conducting biological
acoustics research, and he has spent the last fifteen
years working with cetaceans in Bermuda, Hawaii and
Argentina, all singing grounds of whales. Katharine Payne's
analysis—of whale song ”scores,” resulted in the discovery
that humpbacks adopt a new song every year.

Their work has provided one of the best insights into
the mental capabilities of whales, and it supports their
strong belief that ”an increased awareness of the values of
whales in their live state makes the practice of whaling

unacceptable on ethical grounds.”

-more-

 




Dr. Payne is also the originator of pOpulation studies
of southern right whales by aerial photography, followed by

identification of individuals, a painstaking effort which

makes counting them possible without harm to the whales,

in contrast to the conventional system used by the International
Whaling Commission which requires shooting a shotgun barrel-
sized ”Discovery Marker” into the whale. This marker lodges
in the animal until its death, being recovered on whaling
vessels when the whale is dismembered.

Dr. and Mrs. Payne live in Massachusetts, but they
spend much of their time at a provincial park and whale
refuge in Argentina. Dr. Payne is also a research zoologist
for the New York Zoological Society and an Adjunct Associate
Professor at Rockefeller University in New York. Dr. Payne
received his doctorate in animal behavior and neurOphysiology
from Cornell University and began his study and attempts to
preserve whales after he was deeply moved by seeing a dead
porpoise that had washed up on a beach and been mutilated
by people. Katharine Payne majored in music at Cornell.

The first Albert Schweitzer Medal of the Animal Welfare
Institute was presented to Dr. Albert Schweitzer in 1954
by Dr. Charles Joy at Oslo, Norway, where Dr. Schweitzer had
gone to accept the Nobel Peace Prize. Since 1954, it has
been awarded annually to persons who have made an outstanding

contribution to animal welfare.

 




‘iApril 6, 1983‘

Ms. Carol Cipot

Meﬁallic Arts

Old Ridgebury Road

Danbury, Connecticut 0&810

ﬂear Ms. Cipct:

According to our racorés (referring to our corresponﬁence
dateﬁ September 22, 1981), it is our unﬁerstanding that
you are holﬁing three (3) Schweitzer Maﬁals for us.

We woulﬁ be very grateful if you coulé confirm this
supply, in writing, as we may wish to have one of the
medals engraved'in the near future. .

Thank you very much.

Sincerely,

Christine Stevens
President

 




