()wa

MAN AND BEAST

Human beings and animals (including birds, ﬁsh and others)
form one community, whether they like it or not. We meet the
inﬂuence of animals, if not animals themselves, every hour in the
day. We keep them as pets. We depend on them for milk, cheese,
eggs, meat, poultry, ﬁsh and game. Horses still pull many a plough
and wagon for our corn and root crops. Birds take a toll of
harmful insects and cheer us with their songs. Elephants work for our
rubber, tea and timber, donkeys carry canes for our sugar, pit ponies
draw coal for our gas, electricity and steam. Animals provide
leather and wool for clothing, bone for phosphates, ivory for
billiards, bristles for brushes, fat for soap, Vitamins, sera and vaccines
for medicine. The trafﬁc in the skins of animals brings immense
wealth to the fur trade. Perfumes are stabilized with civet, musk
and ambergris. Wild populations are repressed by man as pests
when they happen to share his food or diseases. Animals are used
in racing, ﬁeld sports and scientiﬁc research. They provide much of
the attraction of wild Nature. Their lives are inextricably mixed up
with those of human beings, and it would be inexcusable to shirk the
duty of considering this fact and of asking ourselves what moral
obligations it imposes.

W HAT IS UFAW FOR?

The weak have always had to be defended from unfair exploita-
tion by the strong. Slavery and sweated industries have had to be
suppressed, robbery and murder outlawed, the Habeas Corpus Act
maintained by Parliament. But animals cannot defend themselves 3
they have no trade unions, they are at the mercy of the callous and
greedy except in so far as kind—hearted people can spare time to
stand up for them; and so in the struggle for fair treatment they
come at the end of the queue.

Reform waits upon public opinion, and to the formation of
public opinion, now and in years to come, men of science and learning
and the young men and women in our universities have a special
contribution to make. They will use their powers in favour of
justice and mercy for animals if they are approached in the right way,
on a basis of authentic knowledge and practicable policy. For these
reasons UFAW has undertaken the task of organizing their help
and sympathy; it has supporters in a number of universities, and
branches in eight of them 5 it is affiliated to the Parliamentary and
Scientiﬁc Committee (composed of peers, M.P.s and representatives
of science), to the British Association for the Advancement of

 

 




 

Science, and to various other such bodies 3 it has strong support from
the veterinary profession, and IS in touch With some 400 teachers
who use its publications.

GIN TRAP S

UFAW has taken a leading part in the campaign against
gin traps because these instruments cause every day an amount of
suffering that would stagger townsmen if it were known to them.
In English—speaking countries upwards of 100 million animals per
annum are mutilated in these traps for the sake of the money to be
made out of their skins, and sometimes their carcascs 3 their limbs
are crushed and they suffer from thirst as well as excruciating pain.
The task of ending this cruelty presents a highly technical problem
in ecology and economics, and UFAW will be glad to supply in-
formation as to its solution, including an account of the work already
done and that in contemplation.

SCIENCE

We live in a scientiﬁc age, and it is right that animals should
share its advantages as they do its disadvantages. UFAW has
sponsored an important ecological research on wild rabbits, with a
View to reducing or eliminating the extreme cruelty involved in
the rabbit-trapping industry. It has taken preliminary steps to-
wards research on humane control of other destructive animals.
It is also sponsoring a research into the effects of electric currents
on consciousness. Experience in the shock therapy of human
beings shows that electric anaesthesia is possible if the right con—
ditions can be found; on the other hand, what appears to be
anaesthesia but is in fact paralysis with extreme agony may be
inﬂicted in attempted electric stunning and electrocution. Reliable
tests for consciousness have to be devised and validated. With a
cheap and reliable anaesthesia it would be relatively easy to extend
the scope of the Animals Anaesthetics Act. In collaboration with
the National Veterinary Medical Association UFAW has recently
persuaded the Ministry of Agriculture to institute a proper control
of the manufacture of veterinary sera. It has made an important
contribution towards the eventual humanization of whaling. It
co-Operates closely with the Animal Health Trust and other
scientiﬁc bodies.

LABORATORY ANIMALS

In 1870 the British Association appointed a committee to
report on the prevention of suffering in experiments on animals,

and through the inﬂuence of Charles Darwin and others the subiect




came before Parliament. Since then anti—vivisectionist policy has
consisted in seeking to abolish all animal experiments 5 in fact,
however, the number of such experiments has increased from 311
in 1883 to about 1.1. million per annum, and is expected to increase
much further. UFAW, on the other hand, is cultivating humane
opinion inside the laboratories instead of having quarrels with bio-
logists from outside. The treatment of experimental animals depends
primarily on the experimenters themselves, and it is important that
the latter should be sensitive to the animals’ point of View. The
UFAW Handbook on the Care of Laboratory Animals has received
an outstandingly enthusiastic and sympathetic welcome in the
medical, veterinary and scientiﬁc press of English-speaking countries.
UFAW has earned the conﬁdence and collaboration of the medical
profession and enjoys the sympathy of a good many anti-Vivisec-
tionists as well.

FARMS AND PITARKETS

The British farmer is a kindly soul as a rule, but he has his
living to earn, and harsh things are done in the course of animal
husbandry and of pest—control. Much unnecessary suffering can be
avoided by raising technical standards, checking the incidence of
disease, and improving buildings and equipment 3 but at best there
remain technical problems, such as those presented by routine
surgical operations, the handling of animals in markets, long-
distance transport and the like, which call for a combination of
humane sentiment and technical knowledge and research for their
solution. UFAW looks to its agricultural and veterinary members
for pointers towards progress in such matters. Members of the
Glasgow Branch of UFAW have investigated the importation of
cattle into Scotland and their report has met with practical sympathy
from the agricultural authorities.

ANINIALS ABROAD

In a few countries, notably those of North-West Europe,
Switzerland and the U.S.A., a good deal of consideration 18
shown for at least domestic animals, except Where kindness conﬂicts
with mercenary interests. In most other countries wanton cruelty
of a Shocking character is common. The best hope of improvement
lies in education, and notably in the spread of humane ideas through
the channels provided by the international relations of science and
learning. UFAW is in touch with a keen, though small, nucleus of
humanitarians in some scientiﬁc circles abroad, and hopes to see
Its ideas spread gradually through the world at large.

(1wa

_ (Universities

Federation for
Animal

Welfare)

MAIN OFFICE

284 Regent’s Park Road, Finchley,
London, N3

Preside nl

Prof. EDWARD HINDLE, M.A., sc.D.,
PH.D., F.R.S.,
Scientiﬁc Director of the Zoological
Society of London

Trustees
The Rt. Hon. Sir GEORGE R. CLERK,
G.C.M.G., GB.

The Rt. Hon. LORD MACMILLAN OF
ABERFELDY, P.c., G.c.v.o., M.A.,
LL.D., F.R.S.E.

Group. Capt. The Hon. L. I. E.
T WISLETON - WYKEHAM - FIENNES,
A.R.I.B.A.

Col. The Rt. Hon. LORD WIGRAM,
P.c., G.C.B., G.C.V.O.

Chairman
KENNETH BIRD, C.B.E, B.SC., F.K.C.

(Fougasse)

Hon. Treasurer
RODERICK M. PEAT, M.A., F.C.A.

Director
Major C. W. HUME, M.C.,B.SC.

Technical Secretary
F. JEAN VINTER, M.D.
Business Secretary

JOSEPHINE M. CozENs
Branch Organizer
MARGARET P. WILLIAMS, B.Sc.(Ec0N.

Auditors

CHARLES W. ROOKE, LANE & Co.,
Chartered Accountants

Bankers

BARCLAY’S BANK LTD., 375 Regent’s Pk.
Road, Finchlev. London N3

157? june, 1950.

 




at the end of the queue

TEACHERS AND CLERGY

About 400 teachers are in touch with UFAW and use its
publications. The importance of school work in creating a public
Opinion favourable to reforms can hardly be exaggerated. UFAW
is afﬁliated to the Conference of Educational Associations.

At present only a few of the clergy have actively recognized
the importance of our relation to animals, to which the familiar
liturgies scarcely refer. This question is receiving attention, and a
certain number of theological students and of the clergy are keen
members of UFAW.

A deliverance of the General Assembly of the Church of
Scotland, dated 27th May 1947, initiated jointly by the Scottish
S.P.C.A. and UFAW, recognized kindness to animals and their
protection from suffering as a practical application of Christianity.

UNDERGRADUATES

Young university men and women are naturally chivalrous
and are sympathetic towards a good cause if it is not repulsively
presented to them. UFAW provides an agency well tempered to
their vivacity and sociability. It is from them that the most
effective humanitarian thinkers and workers of the future will be
drawn.

PUBLICATIONS

Every animal-lover should have UFAW’S prospectus, with
16 illustrations by Fougasse, Expanding justice, a folder with 6-
illustrations, and a companion leaﬂet, Expanding Mercy. These are
sent free on request. A list of other publications is available gratis.

FINANCE

UFAW has built up a ﬁghting fund
from broadcast appeals and other sources
but is expanding rapidly and for this
purpose it needs an expanding income,
It relies on the continued generosity of
helpful sympathizers.

U PAW asks
for your sympathy and help

Donations should be addressed to—
U F A W,
284 Regent’s Park Road, London, N3.

 




