tihisrrﬁm'r @spiaiueh.

 

 

THE following is the substance of a speech
delivered by Miss Cobbe in the Masonic Hall,
Barmouth, June 28rd, 1898, on the occasion of the
formation of the WELSH SncTION of the BRITISH
UNION FOR THE ABOLITION on VIVISECTION. Richard
Lloyd Price, Esq., in the chair.

Miss COBBE moved the ﬁrst resolution :——-
“ That Viviseetion, is an abominabte Sin, and
ought to be abolished.”

I HAVE a sad task before me today. It is to give you all
pain; to put grievous and hideous thoughts in your minds.
But we must not shrink from enduring in imagination, what
multitudes of unhappy brutes suffer in reality ,' or allow our
cowardice and selﬁshness to keep us from learning all that
it is necessary to know if we are to relieve these miserable
creatures from their cruel destiny. I feel certain I shall
not appeal to you in vain for pity, I would rather say
for Jastiee,-——to the loving, intelligent beings who do so
much to help and cheer our lives. I will begin by explaining
to you, in the ﬁrst place,

How THERE COMES TO BE SUCH A PRACTICE AS VIVlSECTION.

“Vitisection ”——of course—~ means the “ cutting (or dividing)
of living things ”; as “Dissection” means the cutting or
dividing of things not living; and I have been sometimes
asked: “Why are not men of science contented with Dissection,
which can hurt nobody, instead of having recourse to Vivisec—
tion, which occasions so much torture ‘2 ” The answer lies in
the difference between the sciences of Anatomy, which concerns
the structure of organized bodies, e.g., the shape and position
of the bones, muscles, heart, veins, lungs, stomach, and so on,
and Physiology which concerns their functions or how the
bones and muscles work, how the heart beats, how the
stomach digests food, how the lungs purify the blood; and a
hundred other curious questions. You will easily see that
while the facts of Anatomy can be studied on dead bodies by
dissection, those of Physiology must needs be studied on

 

 




 

2

living ones; since all the functions of the body cease at
death. The question, therefore, for the Physiologist is:
“ How am I to study those functions ” ‘2 He may (and does)
learn a great deal about them by watching what goes on in
his own and other living bodies, and especially in noting
what happens in cases of injury to those functions by disease
or accident, to be observed largely at the Hospitals. This is
called “ Clinical ” (or bedside) “ Research,” and is inﬁnitely
valuable to the Art of Medicine ; and obviously is not only
harmless but laudable. But unhappily Physiologists are not
content with observing healthy people, nor yet peOple with
every variety of injured or diseased organs. They want to
examine the living body in the same way as the Anatomist
examines the dead one ; and to cut it here and there so as to
look in and see what is going on inside. Common sense
would lead us to suppose this was nearly as foolish as
for a child to cut open its siXpenny drum to see where the
noise comes from; since all the functions of the body are
necessarily disordered, if not stopped, when their seat is
Violently disturbed. Nevertheless the belief that much is
to be learned by vivisection still prevails; and for my
own part I do not pretend to be able to prove the
negative or show that it is a mistake, and that nothing
has ever been, or ever will be, discovered by such means;
though I conﬁdently trust that the present passion for the
odious practice will eventually pass away and be looked
upon as no less scientiﬁcally ridiculous than morally wicked
and barbarous.

At ﬁrst the Vivisectors naturally began with Men.
Numbers of poor slaves, captives and criminals were
dissected alive under King Ptolemy Philadelphus by the
fathers of Science in Egypt; and numbers more in Florence
in the days of Cosmo dei Medici and the great Italian
doctors, from whom our Harvey gathered his ideas and
methods. But at last these human victims were refused to
insatiate Scientiﬁc curiosity, and physiologists were forced
to content themselves with vivisecting the lower animals;
Monkeys, Horses, Dogs, Cats, Rabbits, Pigeons and Guinea
Pigs being their favourite subjects. All these they have
been experimenting upon for the last hundred years, with
ever increasing zeal and lavishness, till the numbers of the
creatures tortured to death in their laboratories exceeds
any calculation. Evidently the horrid process possesses
some extraordinary (I would say morbid) fascinations,
since numbers of young men annually ﬂock to the more
eminent physiologists, to learn the dreadful Art; and then

 

 




 

 

i

 

3

proceed to practise it for themselves, sometimes at the rate
of only a few animals, sometimes (like Schiﬁ‘) at that of
14,000 dogs in ten years. Pasteur boasted quite early in
his career, that he had opened the skulls and injected the
virus of Babies into the brains of “zimmmerable ” dogs;
causing them to die after days of unspeakable agony in that
awful disease, the torture of which is so great that the dog
will bite the bars of hot iron which their keepers thrust, for
experiment, into their cages.

When we learn that a year or two ago no less than 200
students had passed through one laboratory alone (that of
Leipzig) and had thence gone out into the world to practise
physiology, we may make some guess of the increase of this
profession. Let it be understood that,——-

EACH STUDENT GOES THROUGH A LONG APPRENTICESHIP IN
THE ART OF TORTURE.

No one can begin modern scientiﬁc Vivisection and make
Researches straight off. Everyone must learn where to
ﬁnd all the living, beating, throbbing organs, nerves, and
veins; and acquire, under a master, the way to thrust tubes
into the heart, to clear away all the ﬂesh from a nerve so
as to leave it like a small white thread across an open space
(think of what pain it gives only to expose the end of a
nerve in a tooth I), and endless other operations. You will
ﬁnd them described at great length in the English Handbook
of the Physiological Laboratory, written by four of the most
eminent of British Physiologists : all still living and working
in Oxford, Cambridge, and London, and one of them paid
£600 a year of public money by the Local Government
Boardik The book is like one of Cookery Receipts, and is to
be gone through by the student of physiology, on living dogs,
cats, and rabbits, just as a student of cookery goes through
the routine of roasting and boiling dead beef and fowls.

To give you an idea of the student’s work in one of these
Laboratories, I will describe a scene witnessed by Dr.
Hoggan, and told to me, not at all as exemplifying
special cruelty, for the experiments were quite minor ones,
but for another purpose. He said that a delicate little white
fox terrier was taken off the torture trough by the student
who had been practising on it how to cut the nerves which
control the movements of the hinder limbs. The ﬁne little
legs were now paralyzed, and for ever. They would never

* And two of the others raised now (1899) respectively to a.
Baronetcy and a Knighthood of the Bath.

 

 




 

A

J-

scamper again over the grass. The poor creature crawled
away from the dreadful table as best it could towards a dark
corner of the room to ease its fever by lying on the stone
ﬂoor. As it passed slowly onward, dragging its limbs, a
large retriever, which had been lying by the ﬁre, rose up to
meet it. Another student had, a few days before, cut the
nerves behind the eyes of this dog, so that they were
sloughing away and he would shortly be quite blind.

BUT VIVISEOTION INCLUDES INFINITELY WORSE EXPERIMENTS
THAN THESE.

The term, as I have explained to you, literally means
cutting living bodies, but it is extended to include all manner
of operations, and is not always performed with a knife or
scalpel. Animals are baked alive; set on ﬁre with turpentine ;
skinned alive; varnished all over so that they are literally
stewed in their own blood. Their brains are scooped
away by little and little till the proud physiologist boasts that
he has made them to resemble “a well-hoed potatoe ﬁeld,”
and the loving, intelligent animal, dog or monkey, pines
away and dies in stupid misery. Every disease which can
be conveyed to them is given by inoculation, usually through
holes drilled in their skulls, or in their eyes. Their back-
bones are sawn asunder and the stumps irritated to discover
how much pain the process involves. (This was done to 80
horses and asses by Dr. Chauveau, who was afterwards pre-
sented to the Queen at Osborne, through the good ofﬁces of
the Inspector under the Vivisection Act.) Dogs nursing
their young have been (over andover again by different
“eminent physiologists ”) taken out of their beds, made to
suffer the amputation of their breasts, and then dropped
down again among their puppies which they could no longer
feed, but which they licked fondly in their own dying
agonies. Other dogs have been baked alive in ovens con-
structed for the purpose; 17 of them in one oven. Pigeons
have had their feet and wings larded with nails, so that the
smallest movement was torture. These are merely Specimens
of Vivisection, Home and Foreign. There has been an idea
carefully spread in England that

NOTHING so BAD AS IS DONE ABROAD HAS BEEN DONE IN THIS
COUNTRY.

But that is no longer true, even if it were partially so twenty
years ago. I will not harrow you any more with these ,
horrors, but will gladly give any one who desires them

 

 




 

5

pamphlets containing reports of English Vivisections done in
the last three or four years in England, and under the express
licenses of the Vivisection Act and the Home Ofﬁce,——than
which nothing more diabolical is on record anywhere or at
any time.

Remember, these awful facts are not derived from doubtful
witnesses. They are in every single case taken simply from
the writings published by the Vivisectors themselves, telling
their own exploits and discoveries to their fellow Vivisectors,
in their own scientiﬁc periodicalsi“

Do not be misled by the conﬁdent assertions of so many
medical men (who either know nothing about what they are
talking of or else are guilty of outrageous mendacity) that
these dreadful operations are

“ ALWAYS PERFORMED UNDER ANzEerETIcs,”

and that the Victims consequently do not suffer any pain when
they are slowly dissected alive. The truth is, as Dr. Hoggan
bore witness, that the discovery of anaesthetics has been on
the whole a misfortune to the animals, for it has lulled the
public mind as regards their atrocious sufferings, and it is,
nine times out of ten, a delusion. They either get no real
anaesthetic at all; or not enough of one to last through
the long operations they undergo; or the agony of their
wounds long outlasts the condition of insensibility. By the
Returns of last year 634 experiments (apart from inoculations)
are registered as having been performed in England, under
certiﬁcates which dispense with anaesthetics, and how many
more have been actually done but not registered, or how
many animals have gone to each registered “experiment”
we have no means of knowing. One thing, however, we do
know—namely, that whole classes of experiments most
popular among Vivisectors cannot be performed at all under
anaesthetics. The use of chloroform or ether (which are
the only real ones), would vitiate the results and make them
totally useless. Of these it is enough to mention, those
which concern the Nerves, the Glands, and the Heart;
Baking to death, Starving to death, and Suffocation.

What is really used in the larger number of Vivisections
as we learn from the words of the greatest of physiologists,

 

* Such as, in England, the Cambridge Journal of Physiology,
Dr. Lauder Brunton’s Practitioner, the H andbooh of the Physiological
Laboratory, the Lancet, the British Medical Journal, the Transactions
of the Royal Society, and the Reports of the Local Government
Board; and abroad, Pﬂikger’s Archives, Virchow’s Archives, Central-
blatt, Du Bois Reymom ’3 Archives, the Archives Générales de
Médecine, and many others.

 




 

6

Claude Bernard himself—is the “ hellish” drug (as Tennyson
calls it)——Curare or woorali. Bernard says that an animal
under curare, though it seems dead, being Wholly paralyzed
as to motion, suffers “the most atrocious pain which the
imagination of man can conceive.” And yet this same great
Vivisector calmly remarks in another book,——“ La Physiologic
()pémtoire,”——that the use of it is so universal in laboratories
now, that “ When an experiment is not otherwise described,
we may always take it for granted that it was performed on
a curarized dog.”
Now I ask you, my friends :

OUGHT THIS PRACTICE OF VIVISECTION To GO ON ?

You have learned something of how horrible it is, though
not a tenth part, not a thousandth part of it,—and I may
tell you that there are at this hour many hundreds, probably
more than a thousand, laboratories in Europe and America,
each hard at work, each full of creatures, mangled, dying or
dead, or waiting in cages and cellars to be brought up for
torture. So many do they thus use, that in these places they
now ﬁnd it necessary to keep crematories to burn the bodies
of the wretched animals, and so avoid the scandal of letting
their mangled remains be seen outside the walls.

HERE RISES, THEN, A PERFECT MOUNTAIN OF MISERY, A
WORLD OF HORROR AND TORTURE,

at our very doors. What shall be done about it ‘2 Shall we
sit down and fold our hands and close our ears to those
inarticulate cries of agony ? I cannot do it. I hope you
cannot and will not do it. At least let us lift our voices in
protest, and make this wicked practice infamous through the
length and breadth of the land.

You know the excuses which are made for it, the reason
which induced Parliament 23 years ago to change our Bill
(which would have stopped all torture), so that now the law
affords it a sanction under special licenses and certiﬁcates ?
It is the conﬁdent assertion of the Vivisectors that they are
working in the “interests of Humanity; ” that they are
engaged in researches which will greatly advance the Healing
Art, and perhaps provide cures for many diseases.

Well. I don’t believe these ﬁne promises. I believe that
the great Orderer of all things is a Righteous, Holy, Merciful
God; and such a God count not (I say it with all reverence),
could not. possibly have so made His world as that Man
should be obliged to seek for the remedies of his diseases by

 

 

 




*‘

 

 

7

tormenting His humbler creatures. I think it is a blaSphemous
idea that such should be God’s appointment. I believe that
bodily Health is to be obtained by Temperance, Purity,
Cleanliness, fresh air, a contented and cheerful spirit ; not by
pouring ﬁlth into our veins, or through secrets to be dug
out of the brains and entrails of tortured brutes. Nor do I
ﬁnd that after a century of inhuman vivisections, in
which millions of harmless creatures have perished in agony,
the physiologists have given us a remedy for any of the
"woes and scourges of mortality. The death—rate from
Consumption has not been lowered by Koch’s famous
“ discovery ”; nor that from Hydrophobia by Pasteur’s;
while Cancer goes on increasing year by year, till ﬁve die
now of it for one who did so thirty years ago.

I do not even yield so far to the English Vivisectors’
pretensions as to accept them at their own valuation, or
believe that they pursue their loathsome tasks for the sake
and in the hope of doing good to men and women. The
continental vivisectors laugh at this English hypocrisy (as
they call it), and I am satisﬁed they are right, for I have read
many, very many, of the treatises and articles of these
English physiologists, and I have never yet come on a
single passage which reveals anxiety or much fervent desire
or hope to ﬁnd a remedy for human disease, any more
than one expressing regret for the supposed necessity of
causing torture to the animals. I believe that ninety-nine
Vivisectors out of a hundred work at their torture-troughs
from scientiﬁc curiosity or personal ambition, hoping to
achieve some important discovery; or ﬁnally, very often from
a morbid and horrible pleasure in the sight of blood and agony.
The late Dr. Henry Bigelow, of New York, wrote: “ If you
see a class of students watching a vivisection you will see
that it is the blood and torture which attract their gaze.”
One of the greatest of European Vivisectors, ‘Cyon, in a
monumental work on the practice, says that a man should
“approach a difﬁcult vivisection with joyful ardour,” and
that if he does not feel such joyful ardour he will never
become an “artist in vivisection.” I say then I do not
believe that men do such horrible things really in “the
interests of humanity.”

But for argument sake let us suppose that this excuse is
genuine. I ask:

WHAT ARE THE INTERESTS 0F HUMANITY ?

Surely, my friends, the interests of humanity are supremely
moral interests ? The interests of the poor brutes may be

 




8

summed up in bodily welfare, in escape from pain and the
enjoymentof their senses. But the interests of mankind are
of a much higher kind; and, as the respected ministers of
religion, beside me, will all, I am sure, emphatically agree, they
are the Interests of the Soul, not of the Body ; of our hearts,
minds and consciences, not of our carcases. Taking this in
view, do you think that it can be in the “Interests of
Humanity ” to set up schools of merciless cruelty ; to place
at the head of our educational system men whose work by
day and night is that of the executioners who acted as
Tormentors in the dungeons of old and played the rack and
the thumbscrews ; er of the Familiars of the Inquisition who
piled the faggots round the stakes of the martvrs? No!
Even if we could forget and put aside the wrongs of the
vivisected animals, I hold that for the sake of the highest
interests of fimnamty, we are bound to renounce the bribes
which Vivisectors proﬁer to us to induce us to close our
eyes to the cruelty and infamy of their proceedings. It is to
me a shocking thought that, after the law of England had for
half a century condemned cruelty to animals as a moral offence
and thousands of working men had been ﬁned and imprisoned
for over-driving horses or beating asses, the doctors were
able to persuade Parliament to grant them Licences to com-
mit that same great moral offence of Cruelty on a scale and
to a degree of which all the over-driving and beating of
drunken carters is a joke and a ﬂea-bite. Till the licensing
of Vivisection by English law be abolished the shame of such
miserable sacriﬁce of conscience and consistency must rest
with the men of the nation who could enforce its prohibition
to-morrow if they chose to do so.

' Let us, my friends, work to this end unanimously,
zealously, whole-heartedly, not aiming at anything less than
the total abolition of the abominable thing. Let us
hearken to no compromise with the evil, but attack front to
front the principle of cowardly selﬁshness on which it is
founded, and by which alone it is defended. Let us ease
our pains and prolong our lives if we can do so by innocent
means. But let us suffer and die as God may will sooner
than seek relief by the wicked method of Vivisection.

[THIRD EDITION]

 

Printed by in'rnnss (£5 00., for the BRITISH UNION FOR THE
Anonriiox or VIVISECTION, 20, Triangle, Bristol.

Price 1d.; per Dozen, 6d.; per 100, 4s.

 




