 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

HE NATIONAL COUNCIL FOR ANIMALS’ WELFARE
52, QUEEN’S AVENUE, MUSWELL HILL, LONDON, N.IO.
Subscnptzbn for 0115 Y ear, p037 free, 3/6

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

THE ANIMALS” FRIEND

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND is, pnblisbed nzontbly by tbe National Council for Animals" Welfare
at Queen’s Lodge, 32, Queen’s Avenue, ZI/Insn'ell Hill, London, N .10, and all communications

regarding tbe magazine sbonld be addressed to tbe Editors.

Editors: YVONNE A. M. STOTT and J. LEONARD CATHER.

Vol. XLVIII.

August 1942 NO. 8.

C O N TEN T S
Page Page
NATIONAL COUNCIL FOR ANIMALS’ HISTORY STRENGTHENS THE CHALLENGE.
\Y/YELFARE 156 ZDOIZﬂ/(Zz Iii-74AM}? 162
g , THE LEAGUE AGAINST CRUEL SPORTS 164
THIRST. Lt.-Colonel C. H. Meek/cg» 157
FROM ONLOOKER’S NOTE-BOOK 165
ALL CRUELTY IS HARMFUL Chi/”[65 A“ THE HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY 166
lVes/a ott 159
SCOTTISH SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION
. OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS 169
CONFESSIONS OF AN ANIMAL LOVER.
G. H. Bozzoéer I60 PIT PONIES’ PROTECTION SOCIETY I70

Photograph on Cover reproduced by kind permission of the British Union for the Abolition of Vivisection.

T/J6 opinions expressed by eontribntors to tbis magazine are tbeir min, and not necessarily bold by t/Je Editors.

 

 

BAZAAR

Our Dumb Friends’ League are holding a
Bazaar at their premises in Grosvenor Gardens
House, London, S. W. 1, from Tuesday,
September 15th, to Friday, September 18th.
The League has most kindly invited the
National bCouncil for Animals’ \Welfare to
have a table for sale of goods and literature.
Gifts of all kinds will be most welcome for

154

this table and should be sent to the Secretary,
National Council for Animals’ \Welfare, 32,
Queen’s Avenue, London, N.IO, and friends
Of animals are invited to visit the ofﬁces of
the League during the above period.
Grosvenor Gardens House is in Grosvenor
Gardens, quite close to Victoria Station.
Entrance is free.

 

 

 

 




 

 

_.

August, 1942

Notes and Comments

Saved by Horses’ Instinct.

HAT might have been a tragedy was averted
g "x; at Newhall through the instinct of two horses

belonging to Mr. J. T. Atkin, the well-known
eX-Derby County full-back, of Newhall, and Mr. M.
Brealey, butcher.

Mowing operations were in progress. Suddenly the
horses stopped, and the puzzled driver left the machine
to ascertain the cause. To his amaZement he discovered
that a short distance in front was a yawning hole hidden
in the grass, wide enough to engulf the whole outﬁt.

It was later found to be an old pit shaft, with the
brickwork in good condition.

It is understood that many years ago, when the pit
was abandoned, the shaft had been timbered over and
covered with earth and thus remained hidden until the
planks rotted and collapsed—From the Leicerter Mail.

Vegetarian Page.

On another page'appears an article by Mr. Watson,
Hon. Secretary of the Leicester Vegetarian Society.
This is the ﬁrst of a series on vegetarianism in its
practical and ethical aspects written by well—known
people in the movement. This is a feature which our
late Editor had in mind and we feel it comes at a time
when people who before had only a nodding acquain—
tance with the vegetable world now ﬁnd themselves
forced to become more familiar with it. This might
lead to contempt if they have no guidance as to the
proper preparation of the new vegetables they may grow
or buy, so we hope that this page may prove useful.

In Memoriam.

Rev. Conrad Noel. On going to press we are very
grieved to hear of the death of the Rev. Conrad Noel,
of Thaxted, and we would like to express our sympathy

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

to his family and to this parishioners. \Y/e hope to
be able to publish a short sketch of his life in
a later issue.

Miss M. A. Wigley. It is with sincere regret that
we have to record the passing of this good friend of
animals, which occurred quite suddenly early in June,
and Miss Jessey Wade has sent us the following :—

Miss Wigley had been a constant contributor to THE
ANIMALS, FRIEND for at least thirty years and up to
quite recently her educational articles and stories have
been appreciated and loved by teachers and the children
for whom she specially wrote.

In 1912 she compiled and Mr. Ernest Bell published
a volume, Little Lemon: About Anima/y, which she was
well ﬁtted to do, being herself by profession a teacher.
Deafness, unfortunately, compelled her to retire early
from school life, though we feel this proved a gain to
the humane movement, and was the beginning of a
long friendship with the present writer.

Dogs she loved and understood as few humans really
do, and readers of the magazine will remember her
accounts of several she was most intimate with.

Miss Wigley was loved by all who knew her and in
the Suffolk village which was her last home there are
many hearts saddened at losing so true a friend.

J. w.

League for Protection of Rooks.

Agriculturalists, ornithologists and humanitarians
are cordially invited to join this League, its object being
to bring about the prohibition of the slaughter of rooks,
the chief destroyers of the ever—increasing wireworms
which ruin our crops, and pending this prohibition, the
prohibition of the slaughter or (worse still) semi-
slaughter of young rooks in the rookeries in the presence
of mother-birds.

The membership fee is only a shilling yearly and the
promoter and hon. director is S. Claude Tickell,
Vicar of Latton—cum-Eysey, Swindon.

 

 

 

 

 

155

 




 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

National Council for Animals’

August, 1942

Welfare

H072. Semarang/z J. LEONARD CATHER.

' National Lecturer’s Tour.

Miss Barrs ﬁnished her tour for the summer
with another eight talks in Welshpool to
schools and clubs. She went on to Northamp—
tonshire, where she gave 26 talks to schools
in Market Harborough, Thrapston and sur—
rounding district, and one at the Islip Women’s
Institute. Miss Barrs is now arranging her
itinerary for the autumn and winter sessions
and from the look of her programme it would
appear that she will be as busy next year as
she has been this—since Christmas she has
given nearly 400 talks in schools!

Animals’ Welfare Week.

We are now able to give a short report of
the general celebration of Animals" Welfare
Week this year. In answer to the letter sent
'to all the Directors of Education in England
and Wales, 67 wrote favourably, which meant
that 21,249 leaﬂets and zoo posters were sent
to 5,0 5 8 schools with their permission. Apart
from this, 500 schools celebrated the Week
and wrote for literature, films, posters, or
sent in entries to the Essay and Poster Compe—
tition. This meant another 11,179 leaﬂets
and 878 posters, making a total of 52,428
leaﬂets, pamphlets, old copies of THE ANIMALS’
FRIEND, and 1,078 posters sent to 5,5 5 8 schools.

The Animals’ Friend Calendar, 1943.

After a few alarms and fears that we might
not be allowed to publish a Calendar for 1945,
we were able to go forward with its compila-
tion and now it is deﬁnitely in the printer’s
hands. Unfortunately it will be much reduced
in bulk, both sides of the page being used,
owing to the restrictions of paper, otherwise
.it will be up to its usual standard. Colours
will be available shortly but We shall be glad
to receive orders at any time. Price will be
13. 5d. each, postage extra, and envelopes for
sending it on to friends can be obtained from
the Council at Id. each.

The Animals’ Fair. .
The dates Friday and Saturday, December

15-6

4th and 5th, have been provisionally booked at
the Caxton Hall, Westminster, for the Animals’
Fair. Further details will appear in future
issues.

In Memoriam.

E learn with deep regret of the passing
‘2; of Mrs. M. L. Willet, of Warrington,
who was Hon. Secretary of the local
Animals’ Welfare Week since 1928. She was
also Hon. Secretary for the Warrington
Branch of the R.S.P.C.A. For many years
she organized the Week alone with no com-
mittee and always kept the ﬂag ﬂying in the
press, the schools and the town. It will be
difﬁcult to replace so ﬁne a worker. Her sister,
Mrs. C. Jackson Holmes, wrote us a few months
ago that she had had a bad illness and would
be incapacitated in the future. Our sincere
sympathy goes out to Mrs. Holmes for the loss
of the presence and companionship of her
sister. For Mrs. Willett we can have no regrets
as she will have passed to a fuller and happier
life and her spirit will remain to enrich the work
of the Animals’ Welfare Movement. We are
glad to have contacted her during her sojourn
on earth.

Longtooth the Vegetarian.

This’is how a giant of old did his browsing
as described by Heinrich Schutz in his book,
When Maw/ﬂatly: Rad/716d #76 Frozen Barf/J :—

With a gentle, ambling gait the ancient mammoth
trotted over the ﬂowery plain. The sun shone
bright and warm on his rounded hump and glittered
on his long tusks. Without interrupting his stroll,
his long trunk gathered up a meal. A sprouting
berry bush was torn up with one movement and
then beaten against a smoothly rounded boulder, so
that the earth fell from the roots. Then stump and
trunk went into the mammoth’s mouth. The wide—
crowned back teeth were still chewing on the woody
morsels when fresh fodder would be shoved‘back.
This time it was a tuft of young grass, and the tender
green was so delicious that ﬂaky slaver fell from
Longtooth’s mouth as he chewed.

. . . There was always something by the wayside
to pick or uproot, but he only bothered to stop when
his eye caught a bush with particularly appetizin
eaves. -

 

 

 

 

 




 

Augusl, 1943

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

Thirst

By LT.-COLONEL C. H. STOCKLEY.

to many mammals water is a luxury and

not a necessity, so that even very large
animals, such as rhinoceros, are quite able
to live without water for weeks, or even
months, at a time.

It is a subject in which I have always been
much interested, and have made observations
on the drinking habits of both birds and
mammals for over thirty years.

The first notable incident of this kind was
the discovery of a small colony of African
black rhinoceros in the hills of British Somali—
land, where surface water was not available
for several months on end and these great
beasts seemed to rely on thick—leaved plants,
such as aloes, for their moisture. I have since
found rhinoceros in plenty in Kenya over
forty miles from water and seen the same in-
dividuals there on several consecutive morn-
ings. In this same area, the Lower Tana River
valley, both my own observations and native
report agreed in showing that the elephant
herds go away into the waterless bush for

IT seems little known to most people that

about ten days at a time, then come down to
the riverside forest to drink, bathe and feed
on green stuff for a few days before going
back again.

In British Somaliland most of the antelope
were completely independent of water, also
obtaining the necessary moisture from aloes‘
and small gourds, and, even when rain ﬁlled
the waterholes it was rare to find them near
one, while I never saw any but Greater Kudu
drinking.

Photography at waterholes in Kenya, involv~
ing sitting in a hide on several consecutive
days for hours on end, has shown that many.
antelope, even when water is within easy
reach, do not bother to come to it daily. I
found that the handsome spear—horned Beisa
oryX only drank every third day, as did the
ﬁne Grant’s gazelle. With the latter it was
curious to notice how often they might come
near the water and not attempt to drink, some-
times only eating a little fresh grass, at others
even standing at the edge and splashing the
water about with a forefoot, then going off

 

 

Pinto by]

[C . H U S Jockley

Beim Oryx at [Water Hole. A sentry 2'; being re/z'eved.

157

 




 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

without drinking. It was easy to check in—
dividuals, for one buck always differs slightly
from another and one soon gets to know the
animals of the country around.

Using these same waterholes were many
impala, perhaps the most graceful antelope of
Africa, and they came regularly at 9. 30 a.m.
daily, occasionally accompanied by warthog or
jackal; but the oryX and Grant’s gazelle
:arrived an hour later, and the zebra (both
(Grevy’s and Burchell’s) later still, sometimes
not until 2 p.m. The ﬁrst arrivals are the
sandgrouse, which swirl in in large ﬂocks
from 6.20 a.m. to 7.50, when the doves succeed
them. _ Then come the starlings and many
other small birds, while ostrich, vultures, crows
and suchlike take their occasional drinks with
the larger mammals.

From 2 p.m. to dusk the waterholes are
empty, and then elephant and rhinoceros may
arrive, the buffalo coming about four in the
morning and getting in their grazing after
their drink and before the hot sun drives them
into thick cover.

Most of the hill animals of Africa seem to
be independent of water, klipspringer and
Chanler’s reedbuck live on rocky hillsides
where water never lies and are not found
away from them. In the rains, of course, they
are able to ﬁnd water in holes in the rock, if
they want to drink; but, judging by the Sind
or Persian ibeX, which I have found in plenty
in hills where it may not rain for two years,
their even wanting to drink is very uncertain.

The smaller gazelle seem not to drink at all.
I have never seen the Indian gazelle, or
chinkara, drink or found their spoor at any
waterhole in the driest and hottest weather
where they are plentiful, as in Raj putana. Their
prototype in Kenya, the restless little Thom—
son’s gazelle, is equally indifferent to water
“and I have yet to see one drink.

Where large animals have become dependent
on water and cannot obtain it their plight be—
comes desperate. In the' Northern Frontier
District of Kenya, in areas where juicy—leaved
plants are scarce, the rhinoceros drink regularly
at the same waterholes as the cattle; they and
the elephant waiting their turn until the ﬂocks
and herds are ﬁnished. . At one place I know of
the waterholes are deep in rock with narrow
entrances, and ﬁve years ago, owing to drought,
the water receded so far that no fewer than
15 rhinoceros met their deaths by sticking in
the clefts. When I came by next year their
skulls were ranged in a row on a big flat rock
overlooking the wells.

August, 1942

Actual drinking times vary with the district
and the presence of enemies, such as man or
lions. Most ungulates select their drinking
place with an open approach, no cover to
hide carnivora being essential, and Will drink
there daily; but around my home in Kenya,
where the game mostly lives on big stock
farms, they drink at night or in the very early
morning.

It is curious how unpopular the hottest
hours of the day are, for the only animals
which I have known to drink when the heat
was really fierce were the little four—horned
antelopes of Central India.

Behaviour at a waterhole is very interesting.
OryX will arrive at a wild gallop to within
zoo yards, then pull up suddenly and stare all
around them for several minutes, then walk
rapidly to the water. They will post a couple
of sentries some thirty yards away, and these
are relieved by .those which have finished
drinking.

Giraffe drink with their legs straddled widely
apart, warthog kneel, and buffalo wade right
in, making a ﬁlthy mess of their water.

My many hours by waterholes have never
been Without continual interest, and the side-
shows are ever amusing. A bright green whip
snake which caught grasshoppers between my
feet, the expression on the face of a vulture
which settled on the little thorn tree above me
within a yard of my head, and the supercilious
look of a reticulated giraffe which arrived
from behind me and stared over the back of
the hide, are among many incidents which
make me want to go and do it as often as
possible.

 

Photo by]

[C. H. Stockley

Wartbag drinking, Kenya.

158

,0 we

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

August, 1942

All Cruelty is Harmful
By CHARLES A. WESTACOTT.

CC

HE world was all right before man
came,” remarked a practising medical
friend of mine. Then, suddenly realising
my interest in the animal creation, he men-
tioned a certain book which gives an account
of nature and the strange forms of life “ when
the earth was releasing itself from the pall of
ice.” . .

Answering a question of mine regarding
the cruelty and futility of Vivisection, the
modern disciple of Hippocrates said: “‘ You
must not think that doctors necessarily are
cruel; rather it is the scientists who are
responsible for cruel experiments on animals.
A quarter of a century ago at a large hospital,
permission would be given to secure a dog to
illustrate the amputation of a leg or the removal
of an organ. ' The dog would be given an
anaesthetic for the actual operation and would
then be discarded, having to limp about on
three legs or pass the remainder of his life
minus that organ.

Animal experimentation led to human ex-
periments, a case in point being a lonely, dying
man, whose last hours in hospital were made
almost unendurable by an experiment per—
formed upon him. Knowing that youth is
indifferent to pain thus inflicted, an eminent
surgeon warned the students that the day
would come when they would regret their
action, based on a thirst for knowledge regard-
less of the patient. .

The use of animals in various forms of
absurd performing acts, incomprehensibly
popular with the crowd, are only possible
through resorting to cruel means of control.

In quite a different category is the personal
magnetism exerted by some men over animals,
a case in point being that of the North African
hermit who, when necessity arose and he
found himself in dire straits, received succour
from the hyenas over whom he had exercised
kindly dominion.

The cou‘ntrySide is continually a scene of
cruelty, an instance being the intense suffering
caused to pigs by methods of their slaughter,
which I have seen personally.

The world was all right before men came,
when inhabited only by the animals who lived
natural lives. Following upon the coming of

_ ”tolerate cruelty! ”
. of THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND will be in accord.

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

“ Man the Despoiler ” they became subject to

- his wiles and exploitation.”

My friend’s parting words were : “ I cannot
And with this all readers

 

1! Nature Cure Hospital I

In a notice of the Annual General Meeting of the
Nature Cure Clinic and Hospital now held at 14, Dorset
Square, LondOn, N.\W.I, we are interested to note that
“ The principles of the hospital imply (a) a humani-
tarian outlook in general; ([9) a belief in natural
methods of living and healing, to the exclusion of those
involving vivisection, vaccination, or inoculation with
animal sera or similar products, or such as necessitate
the exploitation of either animals or human beings;
(a) belief in the vegetarian principle, as deﬁned by the
London Vegetarian Society or the Vegetarian Society,
Manchester.” The report, received at the same time,
shows a splendid record of work for the year.

 

 

Ph Jio by}

15‘)

 

[0, H. Stockley
Waterbur/a (Mt. Kenya) comes in a form! pool for 22‘:
(arming driﬂk.

 




 

 

 

THE ANIMALS" FRIEND

August, 1942

Confessions of An Animal-Lover

‘ By GEOFFREY H. BOWKER.

 

More Caravan Memories.

with an occasional drunk-and-disorderly,

were almost the only people who
hurled insulting remarks at me during all the
twelve years of my anti—vivisection caravan
crusading. '

As for the doctors, they usually passed by
on the other side, though occasionally one
would comeup to the van and be friendly and
sympathetiC—especially when no fellow—medico
was likely to be looking.

Then there were the medical students, who
have so often demonstrated at anti—vivisection—
ist meetings how silly and caddish the budding
physician can be. Well, I frequently encoun-
tered them at Oxford, Cambridge, Leeds, and
other places where they learn the healing art,
and many a protracted argument have I had
with groups of them. But the discussion was
invariably conducted without undue heat, and
certainly without recourse to rowdyism. Some
of these young men, indeed, frankly admitted
that pretty ghastly things went on in, the
laboratories they frequented. One dares to
hope that part of what was said to them at the
caravan would stick in their minds, and
possibly humanize the practice of those of

them who became “ research workers.”
* * *

CHURCH OF ENGLAND clergymen,

Sincerely, if not with a passionate ache, I
have always desired to be a law-abiding citizen.
It amuses me, therefore, to recall that a con-
stant feature of caravan missioning consisted
in dodging and circumventing the police.

This was inevitable, since my job was to
take the van into the busiest thoroughfares,
gather a crowd, harangue it whilst it swelled
to a multitude, and distribute leaflets by the
thousand. Unfortunately, these comm papa/0
activities tended to create what the man. in
blue termed “ obstruction,” and about which
he persisted in writing laboriously with a stump
of pencil in his greasy little notebook.

Obviously, better to avoid all unpleasantness
by making it snappy—lightning raids on the
desirable main streets, the rushing out of
literature, together with whatever speech was
practicable: all with one eye focused to the
horizon, and the engine running so that we
could be off the moment a minion of the law
strolled into view.

160

To do them justice, I suspect the police not
infrequently turned a blind eye on our pro-
ceedings. In chats with them. in situations
where there was no question of obstruction, I
always found them disposed to be in sympathy
with our work. Probably their own familiarity
with the cruelty of the cattle market and back-
yard predisposed them in our favour.

In fact, I had only one grievance against the
police—and that a minor one. It would often
happen that my night’s camping place would
be a market square or other public thorough-
fare. How often have I been disturbed during
the wee sma’ hours by the frantic barking of
my dogs as an electric torch ﬂashed and an
official voice enquired whether anyone was at
home. ,

It may have been cynical, but these totally
unnecessary nocturnal visits caused me to
sense a lurking hope in Robert’s bosom that
the van contained spirituous liquor or frothing
bottled beer—refreshing solace for a lonely
and no doubt intensely bored policeman on
his midnight beat.

5% '4: *

It was a constant experience to be asked to
give treatment to people’s sick domestic pets.
I used mildly to point out that my allotted
task was other than this, and that in any event,
I was not a veterinary surgeon. All the same,
my knowledge of dogs and their ailments often
enabled me to give a little first-aid advice that
probably prevented suffering—particularly as
in so many cases all that was required to cure
the invalid was the exercise of a modicum of
common-sense in feeding, etc.

Occasionally, a dog or cat would be brought
to me which for one reason or another had
to be put to sleep. I always hated the situation
when superintending these executions fell to
myself. I remember once taking a lovable but
vermin—ridden mongrel puppy to be despatched
at a provincial branch of a well—known animal
protection society. The only method available
was the lethal chamber, and when it was over
I told the assistant who had administered the
chloroform that, poor as I was, I would have
given ,5 IO to have saved that puppy frOm the
death he had given it. No; nothing very
sensational had happened. But the poor little -
thing had struggled and whined before it be-

 

 

 

 




 

 

i
1
l

 

 

August, 1942

came unconscious—enough tO convince me
that this method of destroying animals is
always liable to be cruel, except perhaps when
employed by those who are not only skilful
but loving and patient to an uncommon

degree.
* * *

I have already remarked that propaganda
caravan touring was continually presenting
unexpected little difﬁculties and problems de-
manding swift solution.

Locked and tied in a stable of the garage
where we were parking, I discovered a large
dog Of the mastiff type. Enquiries disclosed
that he was being kept there—closely conﬁned,
as warranted to tear limb from limb anyone
he could get at—for a fortnight whilst his
master was away on holidays.

Thinking a little walk wouldn’t do this un—
happy prisoner any harm, I unlocked the stable
and entered. Of course, as generally happens
when you kindly but ﬁrmly approach these
dogs alleged to be savage, he licked my hand
nearly wagged his tail off, and barked with
joy when it became evident he was going out.

After a mile or so on the lead, he was so
good and obedient that I decided to give him
freedom for a run on the grass. He came to
heel when called and on our return journey
followed like a lamb—until we approached
his stable prison. Did he propose to go back
into it? Deﬁnitely he did not. After one glance
at the entrance he darted away like the wind,
and I was left in the predicament Of having
Ofﬁciously taken out and then lost somebody
else’s dog. ,

There was nothing for it but to confess my
laches to the garage hand in whose care the
animal had been entrusted. Happily our ﬁrst
guess proved correct—the dog had gone back
tO his at present vacant home. Running the
van round there I found him sitting disconso—
lately outside the locked and bolted front door.
A little heart—tO-heart talk, and I was able to
persuade him that a dry if dreary stable was
preferable to spending the night on a damp
and deserted doorstep.

But 'when, I took him out on subsequent
days it had to be on the lead all the time.
* * *

Looking back over those twelve annual
caravan tours, I honestly believe the work was
worth doing—however thankless and weary-
ing it often seemed at the time. At least we
can claim that many thousands of people were

161

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

enlightened about scientiﬁc cruelty as the result
Of our efforts.

Before I gave up, one increasing handicap
to this particular form of propaganda was
becoming painfully evident—the ever—growing
volume Of motor trafﬁc was taking all our best
stands as parking places for private cars only.

Then the war came, with its restrictions on
petrol, which rendered this van work impractic—
able. What the prospects are of its resumption
when peace returns, it would at present be
futile to speculate.

(Next month: “ My Dogs”)

 

 

GIANT SUNFLOWER SEED
COMPETITION.

The parrots and cockatoos at the Flying
School for Birds require large quantities Of
GARDEN-GROWN GIANT SUNFLOWER SEED
(commercial supplies now being largely used for
cattle fodder). Please help them by entering
for this competition, collecting this seed.
Prizes, 7s. 6d., 53. and 2s. 6d. Competition
closes October Ist. For full details apply to
Miss M. Bradish, 95, Park Road, Chiswick,
London, W4.

 

 




 

 

 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

August, I 942

History Strengthens The Challenge

N 1885 someone wrote of vegetarians as
Ibeing “ poor, crazy creatures ﬂying in the

face of Nature.” Such utterances, especially
from doctors, were common in those days.
Vegetarians were few and far between and
their philosophy was considered fantastic, if
not quite mad. Organised religion had no

room in its purely academic constitution for

anything so practical as humaneness—-(it has

not much room to-day!)—and the fact that.

vegetarians continued to live at all was one of
the great mysteries confronting medical science.
But they did live, and what is more, some of
those same vegetarians still do live. They have
ﬂown in the face of Nature so “artistically ”
that Nature has embraced and succoured them
and now only clearness of memory enables
them to recall, the long—distant funerals of
their critics!

It is perhaps as well in a world so torn by
the consequences of carnal living that vege-
tarians are eventually allowed to pass away.
A time comes when their inherent sense
prompts them to decide that in such a world
“ the game isn’t worth the candle ” and so a
voluntary surrender takes place. Not that
this process of surrendering is always easy.
In the case of Mr. Shaw, for instance, it is
proving the most diﬂicult thing he has ever
attempted. But then, Mr. Shaw has never
been used to surrendering and he must be
extremely ignorant of the ﬁrst principles ! Long
ago his .humane instincts told him he had
prodded an evil world long enough and
recently he admitted that for years he has been
trying hard to die, but without success. It is
doubtful now if his accumulations of vitamins
will ever give way, therefore it seems that the
sooner western civilisation accepts him as a
permanent institution, and alters its. ways to
suit, the better. He knows he would drop
dead immediately if he ate a steak or a chop
but he prefers to endure the rigours of eternal
life rather than do that. Perhaps in a final
endeavour to dissipate his energies and earth
the currents which entered his body in the
form of salads in the 1880’s and which have
been playing havoc with the world ever since,
Mr. Shaw will now write for us “ The Vege-
mrz'aﬂ’s Dilemma ”—with the sub—title, “ Un-
successful Dying Made Easy.” In failing to
achieve death, Mr. Shaw has suffered his first

162

personal defeat and a world that can die more
successfully than it can do anything else awaits
the secret of his failure.

Needless to say, not all Vegetarians share
Mr. Shaw’s misfortune. If they did, a recent
investigation to find the average life span of
vegetarians could not have been made. It has
been found from the obituary notices of Tim
Vegetarian Messenger that the average age of
the fifty-seven eminent members of the
Vegetarian Society who died between 1932
and 1941, was 80.5 years. This, hardly
suggests vegetarians as being “ poor, crazy
creatures ﬂying in the face of Nature.” It
does suggest vegetarianism as an easy way

"Whereby the span of life—healthy Vigorous-

life—can. be extended by about one-third
beyond the average, and in these days of
pensions the idea possesses a special attraction
for those Of us with shrewd business minds.
For animal lovers, and for all who have been
compelled by common decency to accept
humane principles, the ﬁgures should be
particularly significant. They refute once and
for all the claims made for centuries that ﬂesh
is necessary in the human diet and they prove
that those who eat ﬂesh to-day do so because
they choose, not because they need. On a
sensible vegetarian diet health is improved and
the expectation of life tremendously increased.
Therefore the traﬂﬂc in ﬂesh food and all the
unnecessary cruelty it entails is seen now in
its true barbarity, and this is not in the least
altered by its long—established tradition or by
the fact that most people still support it———
many who should know better. No longer
can any case whatever be advanced to show
ﬂesh—eating to be a necessary or a Divinely
appointed custom. Experience, reason and
ﬁner feeling all reveal it as a sinister expression
of human ignorance and conceit, and no longer

'can it be excused. If we are to be honest to

ourselves and faithful to our principles of
humaneness, beauty, peace, justice and love,
we can no longer subscribe to it and we should
exert our inﬂuence to abolish it, as other un—
worthy practices have been abolished before.
Alongside the cruelties inseparable from the
ﬂesh trade the sum of all other forms of ex—
ploitation, great and disgusting as it is,
shrinks almost into insignificance. America
alone in a single year slaughters for food

 

 




 

 

August, 1942

enough animals to form a procession extending
seven and a half times round the world.
Britain has more than 20,000 slaughterhouses,
where millions of creatures as highly sentient
as ourselves—and far. more innocent—are
coolly put to death in order that people may
feed on their bodies. No God has granted
man permission to turn the earth into this
gigantic slaughterhouse and no law of nutrition

calls for it. It is the reckless act of a species

inebriated with an inherited lust for blood. It
reﬂects a blindness to reason, an indifference to
humane principle and an ignorance of conse—
quences. It will ‘ not always be so. The
ethics of our Universe are, fortunately, stern
ones. Suffering is a good disciplinarian and
will give liberation from the tyranny of custom
when all else has failed. , In a moral Universe,
man cannot behave as he does and prosper,
and in believing he can he reveals his ignorance
as well as his immorality.

In a world where these never ending pro- .

cessions to slaughterhouses are accepted as
being part of a decent order of things, almost

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

anything can happen. The mentality that
orders them is far too sinister to be disciplined
by political ingenuity, for it is a general
mentality from which political schemes at
present evolve. It reveals the individual Con-
sidering himself as an end with the rest of
Creation as his means and despite his pious
claims it means Expediency is his god. How
can this religion of exploitation be limited
merely to those spheres where animals happen
to be the victims? Principle alone recognises
boundaries. Man cannot have. two moralities :
he is either in favour of exploiting other forms
of sentient life to serve his own ends, or he is
against it. Whether the victims are human
or sub—human is a detail which does not in the
least affect the principle. He is cruel or he‘is
kind. He is a peacemaker or a warmaker. He
is a Coward or a hero. He worships Ex-
pediency 0r Principle, never both.

DONALD .WATSON,
(H072. Seerez‘my,
Leicester Vegetarian Seeiezjl).

 

LEVEN societies were represented at
Ethe Conference held on July 2 3rd. This

was the ﬁrst since 7 the death of the
Chairman, Mr. Spurrier. Mr. Keith Robinson,
who was elected temporarily to the. Chair,
.said he felt those present would like to put on
record their sense of great loss in the passing
of Mr. Spurrier. No one could quite take his
place, and the N.C.A.\X7. were asked to convey
to Mrs. and Miss Spurrier a message of
sympathy at their loss. The members then
stood for a short time in silence.

A discussion took place as to the future of
the Conference. It was felt that the meetings
should continue for they had proved very
useful and had resulted in a greater under-

. standing; between the participating societies.

This was not the time when any drastic change
in the arrangements of the Conference could
take place, but the present nucleus held latent
possibilities which might be unfolded in the
future.

Mr. D. Jeffery Williams was elected Chair-
man for one year and it was agreed that the
National Council for Animals’ Welfare should
continue to convene the meetings.

~Quarterly Conference of Animals’ Welfare Societies

Other matters brought up for discussion
were the reports of alleged cruelty by evacuees,

the keeping of rabbits and poultry in close

conﬁnement, stag-hunting and the use of
animals for gas and blast experiments.
The following societies were represented :—
Caged Bird Poster Fund, R.S.P.C.A.
Cats’ Protection League.
Humane Education Society.

International League for the Protection of
Horses.

League Against Cruel Sports.

National Anti—Vivisection Society.

National Council for Animals” Welfare.
. Our Dumb Friends League.

People’s Dispensary for Sick Animals.

Pit Ponies Protection Society.

World League against Vivisection.

The Universities Federation for Animals’
.Welfare regretted that they were unable to
send a member this time.

163'

 

 

 




 

 

 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

Au gust, I 942

The League Against Cruel Sports

Seerez‘ary: J. CLIFFORD SHARP, 259, Hurst Road, Sidcup, Kent.

Otter Hunting.

“ ARQUOL ran out of the thorns just
I before Render’s muzzle pushed into his
hiding place; but the hounds left the
low ledge and overtook him, before he had
gone very far on his short, tired legs. Dead-
lock seized him and shook him and threw him
into the air. Tarquol sprang up as soon as
he fell, snapping and writhing as more jaws
bit on his body, crushed his head, cracked his
ribs, his paws and his rudder. Among the
brilliant hawkbits—little sunﬂowers of the
meadow—he was picked up and dropped
again, trodden on and wrenched and broken,
while the screaming cheers and whoops of
sportsmen mingled with the growling rumble
of hounds at worry. Tarquol fought them
until he was blinded, and his jaws were
smashed.”

This graphic description of the end of an
otter—hunt appears in Turbo rbe Offer by the
naturalist—author Henry Williamson, who
writes from personal experience of this brutal
and degrading “ sport.”

Animal-lovers will be pleased to learn that
there has been practically no otter-hunting
this summer.

Hunter on Animal Welfare.

In an article entitled “ Welfare of the Animal
World ” by “ H. R. T.” in Horse and Hound
(June 19th), the writer refers to the English-
speaking people, who to-day lead the world in
love of animals and to whom “ the cruelties
of obsolete sports and pastimes are incredible.”
The adjective, we might add, could also be
applied to the cruelties of present day sports.

Hunting people are often, we believe, fond

of animals in their own way—not only of their ‘

horses and hounds but also of their quarry,
who affords them the excitement they crave
for. The fondness, however, is of the purely
selﬁsh order and was well satirized on the
abolition of the Royal Buckhounds by Mr.
Henry S. Salt, in his ode to “ The Deer
Departed,” by

Didsz‘ wonder, sz'uee my love was sueb,
I bum‘ed tbee so sore?

I eould not [ooe z‘bee, Deer, so mueb,
Loved I not bunting more.

Hunts to Carry On. ‘

Despite the “ hush-hush ” policy of the
Masters of Foxhounds’ Association informa-
tion has been received that the following
Hunts have decided to carry on hunting during
the 1942—43 season :— '

Cotswold, Crawley and Horsham, South
Devon, Middleton, Portman, Silverton,
East Sussex, West Somerset.

At the adjourned annual meeting of the
Portman, a letter from the Earl of Shaftesbury
was read stating that he hoped they would
agree to suspend hunting till after the war.
“ It does not seem to me to fit into the picture
in these days of a life and death struggle,” he
added. _

Hunts to Close Down.

It has been decided for ﬁnancial and other
reasons to close down ' the Tedworth 'Hunt
for the duration of the war.

Owing to the lack of interest on the part of
the troops stationed in the district hunted by
the Castleton Beagles, and for whom this pack
was started, it has been decided to suspend
hunting for the duration.

The Uneconomic and Inefficient Hunt.

A west country newspaper prints a protest
from a reader against the waste of time and
money expended by a local hunt which in
57 days’ hunting using 51 hounds (the number
of horses not being mentioned) only accounted
for 26 foxes.

We have sent a letter round the Press point—
ing out that this uneconomic and inefﬁcient
method of keeping down foxes will continue
unless the public endeavours to bring pressure
to bear on the Ministers concerned through
M.P.s to suspend, if not prohibit, it in the
national interest. Now is the opportune time
to raise this matter before the proposed
resumption of the hunting season in September.

August and the Grouse.

JOHN STUART BLACKIE (1809-95), eminent
Professor, Greek scholar and miscellaneous
writer. The following few lines of his are
explanatory in themselves.

‘ Now, o’er rbe rugged peasaut’s eot,
Oboe brngz‘ witb Hnglaud ebeer,
A London brewer sbooz‘s tbe grouse,
A lord/ing stalks fbe deer.

164

 

 

 




 

 

August, 1942

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

From Onlooker’s Note Book

T/ie lieatlier’s out on Me Yorksbire inoors, in sngt
of tbe slyiininering sea—

Miles on billowing miles of purple, free as toe s/éies
are free,

Wliere startled grouse rise out of tbeir leaunt wit/J a
n/birr and a warning my, .

Ana’ black-faced s/yeep on little strong feet, on little
sure feet go by. '

In August, TERESA HOOLEY.

Thinking About It.

JOHN CowaR POWYS, born in 1872, at
Shirley, in Derbyshire, the author of many
books and of three volumes of poetry, in his
Autobiograpby voices his attitude towards

vivisection thus :-——
There is only one ground to take in this matter;
and that is the ground of simple conscience. The
. thing is cruel and, abominable. Then it is wrong.
That it is both cruel and wrong can be seen in the
way that ordinary conscientious men and women
SHRINK FROM THINKING ABOUT IT. They feel in
their hearts that these fanatics of Science are doing
something that they themselves would shudder
to do.

My Friend the Horse.

Mr. Sidney Trist, writing in Tbe Animal’s
Guardian, May, 1909, of the famous eye-
specialist, Charles Bell Taylor (1829—1909)
said :—

His love for horses was well known, and when
he bought the beautiful house with its lovely grounds
in which he passed the last few years of his life, he
added to it a large paddock solely for the beneﬁt of
his animal pensioners. Here was Dom Pedro, who
had been a Nottingham cab-horse, and whose broken—
down condition attracted the sympathy of Bell
Taylor. So Dom Pedro was bought and pensioned
OH in this beautiful paddock overlooking the lovely
and diversiﬁed country, and with him was placed
Blackie, a dark bay horse which Bell Taylor met with
on one of his periodical visits to Scarborough.
Blackie was observed to be in a shocking con-
dition and was being led to the coast for transporta-
tion to Antwerp to be converted into sausages. But
Bell Taylor’s noble soul rose up in indignation
against such an end to a faithful beast who had been
worn out and broken down in man’s service, so he
bought him, there and then, and sent him by train to
Nottingham and turned him out in the paddock to
rest himself for the remainder of his days. In the
paddock was also a fat sheep which had been bought
for company for the horses.

Extract from “ Lilliput,” August, 1941.
Usually we ﬁnd those parchment—skinned

fellows who have spent their lives out East

poor conversationalists. An exception was a

165

man who had spent most of his life working
elephants in teak forests. He said that when
he had been out there six months he thought
he knew all about elephants. Now, after
thirty years, he had discovered that he knows
nothing at all. “ We have reached a com-
promise,” he said. “ I respect the civilisation
of the elephant and he respects mine. But we
can’t hope to understand each other.”

At one morning parade of the beasts it was
discovered that some had sore feet. These
had their feet smeared with an ointment.
During the morning all the other elephants
refused to do any work, no matter how they
were prodded. Eventually somebody dis-
covered that they were smarting under a sense
of “ preferential treatment.” So all their feet
were smeared. And they all went quietly
back to work. Which makes us feel that the
civilisation of man and elephants cannot be so
far apart after all.

Excerpt from “ The New Statesman and
Nation,” January 10th, 1942.

“ I was standing in a garden overlooking a
common one early afternoon last summer when
a black-and—white terrier came padding along
the road. ‘ There goes Monty,’ said the
gardener with a look of admiration. ‘ Monty
always knows when there’s going to be cricket ’
———the ﬁeld is in the middle of the common-—
‘ and, as sure as fate, he makes for the green
about an hour before the match starts. If
there was no match to-day, Monty wouldn’t
be going up the road. ‘ How can he tell?’
I asked. ‘ Ah,’ said the gardener, ‘ that’s a
mystery. But Monty always knows.’ ”

The ﬁfty per cent. of the population who
believe in the more than human intelligence of
dogs will ﬁnd no difﬁculty in accepting the
gardener’s statement. I accept it myself but
explain it away in the modern fashion as an
example of telepathic communication.

Y. Y.

Thought for the Month.

“ Work for the suppression of all cruelty,
including vivisection, exploitation and in~
justice, substituting happiness for all forms of
animal life.”

ONLOOKER.

 




 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

August, 1942

The Humane Education Society

UNITY HOUSE, ALBERT AVENUE, SEDGLEY PARK, MANCHESTER.

Items brought up for discussion at Meetings,
Conferences, etc., per The Humane Education
Society and Children and Animals League of
Friendship.

 

I. That having regard to statements and
reports issued by various authorities through—
out the country, concerning the increase in
juvenile delinquency re crime, cruelty and
destructiveness, this conference is of the
opinion that young people are not entirely
responsible for this increase.

2. That practically the whole of juvenile
delinquency is due to the example set to young
people by adults, especially certain sections of
men and women in authority, who encourage
trapping, snaring and killing of beautiful and
useful birds such as the pigeons in various
parts of London, also wholesale destruction,
often in a most cruel way, of rooks, sparrows,
wood—pigeons, larks, and other creatures.

5. Furthermore, this Conference strongly
condemns the practice of asking children to
assist in trapping, snaring, killing of birds,
moles, rats, or any creature. This practice
being a direct violation of principles of Christi-
anity and child and animal welfare. We advo—
cate constructive welfare work, organizing
young people to safeguard the countryside, to
understand and collect wild fruits and plants
and medicinal herbs for fellow creatures, birds
and animals.

4. We also condemn the practice of allowing
young people to be associated in any way with
vivisection laboratories, slaughterhouses,
blood sports, circus and menagerie shows.

5. We desire to place on record our carefully
reasoned and sincere belief that no nation can

hope to have true peace, health, happiness and '

security whilst the above crimes are perpetrated
upon sentient fellow creatures.

6. It is important that these truths should be
taught; the truths of right relationship to all
creatures, and that adults should set a far better
example to young people. Only by the
adoption of the Golden Rule in all our dealings
with fellow creatures, will the new age of peace,
progress and happiness be established.

We are very glad to report that in company
with head teachers and social reformers, the

166

Secretary of The Humane Education Society
has spoken on the above vital questions to
many groups of parents, youth leaders and
members of various movements, most excel-
lent discussions taking place. A number of
assemblies are being asked to discuss these
vital matters and the deeper issues underlying
them, and if possible send resolutions to the
authorities concerned, then follow this up with
practical work in other directions.

Children and Animals League of Friend-
ship and Goodwill.
SPECIALLY IMPORTANT.

To ALL WHO ARE DESIROUS OF HELPING TO
ESTABLISH THE NEw AGE OF KINDNESS AND
GOODWILL.

Books, Plays, Pictures, eta—The true spirit
of kinship, kindness, peace and goodwill can
best be developed by means of Humane Edu«
cation through well-chosen books, pictures,
films, games, etc. Anything likely to en-
courage cruelty, selﬁshness, callousness, crime
and warfare, should be done away with and
replaced with things that build up character,
kindness, courage, comradeship in everyday

life. .

Nursery Rlyynzes and Folk Stories Influence on
Young People, Life and Conduct—Evidence from
welfare workers and psychologists in child
and animal welfare movements, schools and
clinics, reveals some startling facts. It is now
recognised that many old nursery rhymes and
folk stories, modern songs and stories, too,
containing words and ideas re bad behaviour,
coarseness, vulgarity, and even murder and
destruction, have an adverse effect on the
child mind.

juvenile Dellnqueney—Cblldren Respond to Good
Influence—Normal children respond readily to
teachings of kindness, fair play, kinship,
justice, beauty, harmony, and all that is
bright and happy, but when they read and hear
folk stories, songs, rhymes, jokes, and see_
certain types of films, contradictory of things
that are best in life, and apparently approved
by grown-up people, can we wonder that
juvenile courts and institutions are kept busy,
and armies of oﬂicials are necessary, weeding
out the evil implanted by certain sections of

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

August, 1942

Press, Radio and Screen. We are very glad to
report that a great deal of special work has
been done in this direction. We are gaining
the practical co—operation of those concerned.

Welfare and Protection of Horses, Ponies,
Don/eats, Cats, Birds and Otner Creatures.—
Teachers and welfare workers give excellent
Talks to young people, and to older ones, too.
The staff and children in many schools have
collected money and bought requisites for use
of sick and injured animals.

Sperm] Work—In co—operation with Miss
Violet Philpin and a group of trained, kindly,
alert welfare workers, we are seeking to ﬁnd
a better way of giving a humane ending to
unwanted or ill and injured dogs and cats.
Many humane people not being satisfied with
electrocution and lethal boxes. It is hoped
that in the future there will be available a
beneﬁcial drug, which will give ease to
physical and mental suffering, and a better
ending to our animal friends in their time of
great need. In the meantime we are educating
people to exercise control over unrestricted
breeding of animal life.

Birds—Service and Food—In company with
other groups, we are teaching the value of
bird life, and the balance of Nature, also with
aid of teachers and youth leaders, getting
young people to gather wild plants suitable
for our feathered friends, who through war-
time stress have been deprived of their food
in town and country. Great care being taken
of the needs of wild birds and protection of
countryside. A knowledge of wild plants
and ﬂowers, with food and medicinal value

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

for birds animals and human bein s is of
. > . g
great interest and servrce.

London TeacherS’ Humane Education
Circle

(Afﬁliated to The Humane Education Society,

Manchester.)

Miss M. C. BERNARD, Laycock

Street Schools.

Miss M. E. TURNER, formerly

Inspector of Schools.

Deputy Chairman: Miss E. M. LARKMAN,
Hanover Street Schools.

Hon. Secretary :

Cbnz'rrnczn :

Good, steady progress made throughout
the year. Thousands of children, parents and
relatives being inﬂuenced by lessons and talks
re captive and performing animals, care of
domestic animals and right relationship
towards our fellow creatures. A number of
our members have suffered loss of schools and
homes through enemy action. They have kept
steadily on under very trying conditions,
helping others in Emergency Centres. Miss
E. Hiscocks, head teacher, has written many
excellent revised nursery rhymes and stories
for young people. These are of good service.

The Little Animals’ Friend Magazine

Editor: Miss JESSEY WADE.

Most encouraging reports reach us daily
concerning the value of this interesting and
instructive magazine. Parents, teachers and
young people all over Great Britain and The
Dominions are taking this. We are now
selling more copies and badges than before
the outbreak of war. Thousands of boys and
girls enrolling in our League of Kindness.

 

ANIMAL LOVERS AND THEATRE LOVERS
are invited to a
PEOPLE’S NATIONAL THEATRE DEBATE
Subject: “WHO ARE THE LESSER BRETHREN?”
Followed by a POETRY READING, at the
TAVISTOCK LITTLE THEATRE (5 Tavistock Place, W.C.I)

(Nearest Station : Russell Square.

Buses: Nos. 68, 77, I4, 18, 30, 73.)

on SUNDAY, SEPTEMBER 13TH, at 3 pm.
Miss NANCY PRICE will read poems of NORTH AFRICA (People, Country and
Animals) by Miss N. HOSALI, Organiser of the SOCIETY FOR PROTECTION OF
ANIMALS ‘IN NORTH AFRICA.

167

 




 

 

- —(aa.—».

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND August, 1942

W M? ""i‘
:«p fuz,‘ :, A"; .I ha.’-- at:

a

 

43'

What is the “Little Animals9 Friend?”

It is a magazine which was originally started by Mr. ERNEST BELL as a “ Children’s
Supplement ” to the larger ANIMALS’ FRIEND. Later on it was issued separately and is now
the official organ of the Humane Education Society at Manchester (Junior Section).

ITS AIMS.

Its aims are to encourage a sympathetic feeling for and the proper care of the animals with
whom children come into contact; to appeal to their imagination by offering to print original
stories of animals or birds, or essays upon given subjects.

Aiming at being constructive rather than destructive it avoids, as far as possible, all details
of cruelty and horrors , advocates the study of natural history without “ collecting” ° the
avoidance of keeping any so— -called‘ ‘pets ” in captivity, or of visiting Zoos and Menageries,
or Shows where performing animals are included.

MEMBERSHIP OF THE LEAGUE

is open to girls and boys, at ages from 7 to 16 years. Application for Cards of Promise, to
be signed, should be sent to——— 1
THE SECRETARY, HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY,
23, Albert Avenue, Prestwich, near Manchester.

As also all Orders for Subscriptions and leaﬂets. Badges, 4d. each, postage 2%d.

ANNUAL SUBSCRIPTION is 13. 6d. for 12 months. Single copies, post free 3d.
Special terms to schools, where the help of teachers is most welcome.
Specimen copies will be sent gladly.

Members may like to know that upon reaching the age when they feel the magazine to
be too “ young ” for them, they may be TRANSFERRED to the Senior Section of The Humane
Education Society (Manchester) for the nominal sum of Is. yearly, on application to the
Secretary. They will. receive suitable literature at intervals.

PLEASE NOTE that the Editorial address is—
c/o ADA COLE MEMORIAL, 5, Bloomsbury Square, London, W. I,

and that all literary matter, photographs, questions, etc, for the L. A. F. should be addressed
there, to the Editor.

168

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

August, 1942

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

The Scottish Society for the Prevention of Viviseetion

The Kingston Chronicle

Vol. IV, No. IO.

Office of James C. Thomson. April, 1942.

Published every now and then from THE KINGSTON CLINIC, EDINBURGH, 9.

HIS was copied from the Engc/opaea’ia
Americana, Vol. X, “ Medicine.”

An Endorsement of Nature Cure by Dr.
'Osler.

“ The new school does not feel itself under
obligation to give any medicines whatever,
while a generation ago not only could few
physicians, have held their practice unless they
did, but few would have thought it safe or
scientific. Of course, there are still many cases
where the patient or the patient’s friends must
be humoured by administering medicine or
alleged medicine where it is not really needed,
and indeed often where the buoyancy of mind
which is the real curative agent, can only be
created by making him wait hopefully for the
expected action of medicine; and some
physicians still cannot unlearn their old
training. But the change is great.

“ The modern treatment of disease relies
very greatly on the old so-called ‘ natural’
methods, diet and exercise, bathing and
massage—in other words, giving the natural
forces the fullest scope by'easy and thorough
nutrition, increased ﬂow of blood, and
removal of obstructions to the excretory
systems or the circulation in the tissues.”

Here is Dr. Lindlahr’s commentary (written
I912) :—

“ Dr. Osler is probably the greatest medical
authority on drugs now living. He was
formerly professor of materia medica at the
Johns Hopkins University of Baltimore, U.S.,
and now holds a professorship at Oxford
University, England. His books on medical
practice are in use in probably every university
and medical school in English—speaking
countries. His views on drugs and their real
value as expressed in this article should be an
eye—opener to those good people who believe
that we of the Nature Cure school are alto-
gether too radical, extreme, and somewhat
‘ cranky.’

“ However, what Dr. Osler says regarding
the ‘ New School’ is true only of a few
advanced members of the medical profession.

“ On the ‘ rank and file ’ the idea of drugless
healing has about the same effect as a red rag

169

“nan—«AV. , -§.i

on a mad bull. There are very few physicians
in general practice to-day who would not lose
their bread and butter if they attempted to
practice drugless healing on their patients.
Both the profession and the public will need
a good deal more of education along Nature
Cure lines before they will see the light.

“ These unreserved statements by Dr.
Osler, made with due deliberationina contribu—
tion to the Encyclopadia Americana, are cer—
tainly an unqualiﬁed declaration as to the
uselessness of drug treatment, and on the
other hand, an unqualified endorsement of
natural methods of healing.

“ When Dr. Osler says that most drugs have
no effect whatsoever, he makes a serious mis—
statement. While they may not contribute
anything to the cure of the disease for‘which
they are given, they are often harmful in
themselves.

“ Almost every virulent poison known to
man is found in allopathic prescriptions. It
is now positively proved by the Diagnosis
from the Eye, that these poisons have a
tendency to accumulate in the system, to con—
centrate in certain parts and organs for which
they have a special affinity, and then to cause
continual irritation and actual destruction of
tissues. By far the greater part of all chronic
diseases are created or complicated on the one
hand through the suppression of acute diseases
by means of drug poisons, and on the other
hand through the destructive effects of the
drugs themselves.

“ Dr. Schwenninger, the medical adviser of
Prince Bismark, and later of Richard Wagner,
the great composer, has published a book
entitled The Doctor. This work is the most
scathing arraignment and condemnation of
modern medical practice, especially of poison—
ous drugs and ‘of surgery. Dr. Treves, the
body—physician of the late King Edward of
England, is no less outspoken in his denuncia-
tion of drugging than Drs. Osler and
Schwenninger.

“ Just a few men like these, foremost in the
medical profession, who have achieved ﬁnancial

(Continued on next page, col. 2.)

 




 

 

 

 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

Au gust, 1942

Pit Ponies’ Protection Society

Secretary: JEFFREY WILLIAMS, 69, Carlton Hill, London, N.W.8.

Managements and Pit Ponies.

HE following letter appeared in the
Nerf/eerie Ee/Je, June 20th, I942 :—
SIR,———Old Putter asks me if there is
“ one law for the management and another for
workmen in regard to the ill-usage of ponies.”
Managements have at times been prosecuted
for contraventions of the regulations relating
to the care and use of ponies in mines, though
I do not recall one case reported from Durham.
The reason why there may be so few prosecu-
tions of managements for offences against pit
ponies is that the law is full of loopholes.
There are no laws to compel mine manage-
ments to restrict ponies’ working shifts to
one per day as for miners ; to compel manage—
ments to provide standard heights and widths
(nine inches higher than the tallest pony used)
in pony—haulage roads to prevent the animals
from rubbing against the roof or side; to
stipulate that ponies should all carry electric
battery lamps on their collars; to allow pony
drivers to report bad road conditions in writing
so that the inspectors may see their reports;
to provide regular intervals for feeding ponies
during shifts ; to see that pony drivers must be
16 and carefully trained above and below
ground; to prevent holes being dug on roads
when the roof is too low for the ponies to
pass; and no law to provide for reserve
ponies at collieries.

These are some of the things that require
legal enactment to make managements more
responsible for the welfare of pit ponies. We
are not condemning pony drivers or manage-
ments, as such, but we want improved con—
ditions if ponies are still to be used in mines.
After all, pit ponies cannot go on strike.—
Yours, etc.

D. JEFFREY WILLIAMS.

Will the Government Act?

The mines are now under the control of the
Ministry of Fuel and Power. In the interests
of efﬁcient production as well as for human
reasons, a limit should be placed on the hours
worked by ponies.

Recently we received a letter from a Durham
miner explaining how the good and willing

170

pit pony is taken out on a second shift the same
day. A pony driver is paid by results in
Durham, and when he comes to the stables to
take out a pony he will more often than not
refuse to take the slow or poor workers that
may be there, but go to meet the incoming
pony and take it back for another shift without
rest and its food allowance for the next shift.
He has to rely on what may be in the choppy-
box where the pony works.

“ A fresh and eager driver, a tired and
hungry pony ” on a second shift during the
same twenty-four hours I He must supply
tubs to hewers who are also paid by results.
The colliery depends on output. The national
emergency demands more and more coal.
The overworked pit pony is helpless. Can
the Government, now in operational control

. of our mines, see to it that no pony in the pits

works more than a limited number of shifts
per week?

Two Horrible Cases of Cruelty.

At Pontefract, June 6th, 1942, a pony-driver
(I7) was sent to prison for three months for
pulling out a pit—pony’s tongue.

At Wakeﬁeld, July 5rd, 1942, a pony—driver
(18) was ﬁned J{:Io with £ 8 83. costs for kicking
a pony in the mouth with his clogs. Pony
became terrified, ran away, and became
wedged between some tubs and a wall. When
it arrived at the stable a hind leg was found
to be broken.

 

(Continuedfrom previous page)

and scientific independency, can afford to
speak like this. The great majority of
physicians, even though they know better,
continue in the old ruts so as to be considered
‘ ethical’ and orthodox, in order to hold their
practice. It is not the medical profession
that has brought about this reform in the
treatment of typhoid fever and other diseases.
They have been forced into the adoption of
the modern advanced methods through the
pressure of the Nature Cure movement.”

 

 

 




 

1 [41157115137942 THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

THE NATIONAL CANINE DEFENCE LEAGUE
The Pioneer Organization for the Welfare of Dogs

Gives skilled treatment’to over 82,000 ailing dogs and other animals every year.
Pleads the cause of the chained or otherwise ill-treated dog, by the circulation of many
. thousands of posters and leaﬂets every year.
~, ' Enlightens the public on all aspects 0t dog-welfare by press propaganda, cinema ﬁlms,
lantern lectures, essay competitions, etc.
Seeks to prohibit toe vinisertion of dogs.

 

‘ Membership 53. 0d. upwards.
CHAS. R. JOHNS, Secretary, VICTORIA STATION HOUSE, S.W.I

 

If You Are a Cat Lover You Should Join

‘OLD v1 ’ . -
.. - CTOR The Cats Protection

A Short Story (about a prize pit horse).

By B. L. COOMBES A to “ TI} 6 P or
Hands ”). , 2E1. Zpoosi; gee. 6’5 0 League
c PRAYER TO GO TO PARADISE The one society devoted solely to the welfare
WITH THE DONKEYS , of cats and kittens.
Poem translated from the French of Francis ' MEMBERSHIP 5/- mm ANNUM,

Jammes by Vernon Watkins and reprinted

from,T/Je Listener. “ This beautiful prayer.”— 1nclud1ng the Somety S ofﬁcral organ,

 

T/ye Ani/na/s’ Friend. Four copies 2d. post free. “ THE CAT ”

of/me [gaff/6;; 0” pi; pong“. Associate Membership Subscription 3s. 6d. p.21.
The Pit Ponies’ Protection Society, > . . '- '
69, CARLTON HILL, LONDON, N-W«8 Write for Free Literature tOI—The Secretary, 29, ,

Church Street, Slough, Bucks.

 

 

The LEAGUE AGAINST CRUEL SPORTS

Temporary Address: 259 HURST ROAD, SIDCUP, KENT.
President: HAMILTON FYFE Clyairman: AIR-COMMODORE L. E. O. CHARLTON, C.B., C.M.G., D.S.O.

Secretary: J. C. SHARP Hon. Treasurer: ARCHDEACON F. LEWIS DONALDSON, M.A.

 

This Society is devoted solely to the protection of Animals against Cruel Sports. The
League is doing for Wild animals What other societies are doing for domestic animals.

Membership 23. 6d. upwards.

 

National Society for Abolition of Cruel Sports

c/o 253 COWLEY ROAD, OXFORD

 

Chairman: H. G. CHANCELLOR. Hon. Treasurer: LORD OLIVIER. Hm. .Yerretarjv: BERTRAM LLOYD
Latest Publication DEER HUer‘ING AND SHOOrPING ON .
EXMOOR 2d.

By M. Chapman

 

 

 

All subscriptions and eonnnnnisations for Me [Magazine s/ron/d be addressed “ T/Je Editors, ANIMALS’ FRIEND,
52, Queen’s Avenue, A/Insnle/I Hi/l, London, N .10.”

 

 




THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND Aug/Tl, 1942

THE DOG’S BAZAAR

for 1942 will he held on 27th OCTOBER in the
FREEMASONS’ HALL, 96, George Street, EDINBURGH2

 

PLEASE NOTE

Miss N. Ivory will be grateful to all who send in their Contributions
as early in the year as possible, addressed to:

MISS N. IVORY, Hon. Secretary,
(to whom all cheques should be made payable)

at 10, QUEENSFERRY STREET, EDINBURGH

Please carefully note alteration in month to October
this year, and not November as in the past.

 

THE SCOTTISH SOCIETY FOR THE
PREVENTION OF VIVISECTION

Miss N. IVORY, Hon. Secretary, 10, Queensferry Street, Edinburgh

(to whom all communications should be addressed)

 

Form of Bequest

To those who may be inclined to become benefactors by Will to the Society,
the following form is respectfully suggested 2——

“I bequeath to THE SCOTTISH SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF VIVISECTION,

whose offices are now or formerly were at NO. 10, QUEENSFERRY STREET,
EDINBURGH, the sum of ,{

(free of duty) to be applicable for the general purposes of such Society, and I
declare that the receipt of the Treasurer or other proper officer for the time being
of such Society shall be sufficient discharge for the same.”

CAUTION

It is of great importance to describe very accurately the Title of this Society, namely :—
“ THE SCOTTISH SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF VIVISECTION,” otherwise the benevolent
intentions of the, Donor may be frustrated. All wills and codicils must be in writing, signed
by the Testator in the presence of, and attested by, two witnesses, or must be in the handwriting
of, and signed by the Donor.

 

 

 

Printed in Great Britain by the Surrey Fine Art Press, Cavendish Road, Redhill, Surrey,
for the National Council for Animals’ Welfare, 32, Queen’s Avenue, Muswell Hill, London, N.lO.

 

 

 




