NOTES

(PRELIMINARY).

In these preliminary “Notes” there are several extracts
from the writings of men so eminent and honoured that their
opinions ought not to be brushed aside. They refer to exces-
sive cruelty inﬂicted by men on the sub-human species.
Later, when these “ Notes” have taken a more deﬁnite and
permanent shape, they will show how widespread and varied
that cruelty is.

By the majority of thinking people this fact is either not
known or only as a not very serious matter. Many of them
sympathize occasionally with a limited part of the suffering,
and perhaps only when it is brought to their notice in a news-
paper paragraph, or by a friend, or by a Society dealing
only with some special forms of cruelty. They may give a
subscription or donation; and are too absorbed in business
or pleasure to do more to help to counteract the evil.

The “Notes” will not be limited to the consideration
of any special form of cruelty; and it is hoped that they will
be interesting enough to several who are too busy to inquire
more methodically. The objections raised are to hunting,
shooting, and cruel sport generally; to the barbarities
associated with vivisection, and with butchery for food; and
to the many other forms of cruelty to both man and beast.

In this way, more sympathizers may be induced to join.
some of the humanitarian Societies. In later issues they will
ﬁnd information as to what Societies there are, how to help,
where to get substitutes for furs, leather, ﬂesh foods, etc.
Also what books and magazines there are on the subject,
what meetings are about to be held, what speakers. to hear,
and what guest houses to stay at when they wish for the
companionship of humane workers.

I

 




 

In other parts of the “ Notes ” there will be a Symposium
or Debate, a Correspondence Column, and a portion set a51de
for Children.

A.C.N.

We claim rights and freedom for ourselves. There is
also the right of every other class of anlmal to live according
to its nature.

There are hunting people who chase a fox or a hare with
many dogs till it is exhausted and killed; and yet claim to
be humane, and show their humanity by sending a man to
prison for the same action on a small scale.

Hunting has been defended on the ground that very
large sums of money are spent on it, and that many workers
and tradesmen depend on it for wages and proﬁt. As if the
money could not be used on productive work and so support
many more workers! Abolition of the slave trade, child
labour, and other abuses were objected to on the same ground,
as it was said that ship owners would lose the proﬁts they
gained by carrying slaves in their ships, fiactory owners
would be ruined by the loss of child labour, etc.

A few years ago a writer in a Sunday newspaper
wrote :-———“ If I were a parson I would never rest until I had
made my voice heard against the inhuman sport of pigeon
shooting, as exposed by the late Lord Randolph Churchill
and held up to public execration in the Daily Express, backed
by evidence that makes one shudder. Women go to witness

the torture of the bird that is the emblem of all that is beauti-
ful and all that is helpless.”

 

 

 




 

 

 

Sir C. Napier abandoned sport on witnessing the death
of a wounded bird he was holding. Mr. Hamilton Fyfe
lately decided never to hunt again when he saw a hare (which
had been hunted in circles for a long time) “with its be-
draggled fur and bulging eyes.”

“ Teach me to feel another’s woe;
To hide the fault I see;
That mercy I to others show,
That mercy show to me.”

Pope, “ Universal Prayer.”

Some hold the opinion that no animal except man is
guided by reason. They concede instinct only to the sub-
human species. In replying to this idea, and in support. of
his strong arguments that all animals reason, Professor
Howard Moore, of Chicago University, cited, among many
others, the following examples :—

“ Brehm one day gave one of his apes a paper bag with
a lump of sugar and a wasp in it. The ape, in getting the
sugar, was stung by the wasp. From that day, whenever
Brehm gave that ape, or any other ape in that cage, a paper
package, the animal, before opening it, took the precaution
to shake the package at its ear and listen to ﬁnd out whether
or not there was. a wasp inside. Now, such an act of intelli-
gence implies several inferences. A train of thought some—
thing like this must have passed through the ape’s mind :———
‘Now, if one wasp can sting, so can another; and, if a man
can deceive me once by wrapping a wasp in a paper with a
lump of sugar, he may try it again; and if one man will
attempt such a thing, .so may another; and, if men will
attempt it on me, they will attempt it. on my friends; so I will
warn my friends.’

These references of the ape are the same kind of general-
izations exactly as are made by men everywhere in their
daily lives.”

 




 

“ A parrot at Washington saved the life of its owner by
summoning the neighbours to his relief. Cries of ‘ murder,’
‘ help,’ ‘ come quick,’ from the parrot, attracted the attention
of the neighbours, who ran to the house to ﬁnd out the cause.
They found the owner of the parrot lying on the ﬂoor unCon—
scious, bleeding from a great gash. in his neck. He had been
repairing; the ceiling and hacf fallen and struck his head
against the stove.”

“ A certain Mr. Cops who had a young orang gave it
half an orange one day and put the other half awayi out of its
sight on a high press and lay down himself on a sofa. But
the ape’s movements attracting his. attention he only pre-
tended to go to sleep. The creature came cautiously and '
satisﬁed himself that his master was asleep, then climbed up
the press, ate the rest of the orange, carefully hid the peel
among the shavings in the grate, examined the pretended
sleeper again, and then lay down again on his own bed.”

“ Cuvier.’s orang used to carry a chair across a room and
stand on it to lift the door latch.”

“ As Dr. Wesley Mills says in his. ‘ The Nature and
Development of Animal Intelligence.’ It was formerlybe—
lieved that animals cannot reason, but only those per-sons
who do not themselves reason about the subject with the
facts before them can any longer occupy such a position.’ ’

In an address to the British Medical Association, in 1899,
George Wilson, M.A., M.n., LL.D., said, “ When it is stated
that the actual pain involved in these (vivisection) experi—
ments is commonly of the most triﬂing description, there is
a suppressio 'veri of the most palpable kind . . . . . The
cruelty does not lie in the operation itself, which is permitted
to be performed without anaesthetics, but in the after
effects. . . . . The animal so operated on may have to live
days, weeks or months, with no anaesthetics to assuage its
sufferings, and nothing but death to relieve.”

4

 

 




 

It is well known that poison gas kill-s. What need is
there to prove this by poisoning hundreds of animals, as
was done in 1930 and 1931 ? Very painful experiments were
carried out on 2,000 cats. Their long continued suffering
was described in a German paper.

A distinguished physiologist, Sir Charles Bell, told his
brother :——“ I should be writing a third paper on the Nerves
but I cannot proceed without making some experiments,
which are so unpleasant to make that I defer them. You
may think me silly; but I cannot perfectly convince myself
that I am authorized, in nature or religion, to do these cruel—
ties . . . . and yet, what are my experiments in comparison
with those which are daily d0ne ?”

Most of those who abstain from ﬂesh foods do so because
of the suffering inﬂicted on the animal-s. In reply to them,
it has been argued that nature is “ red in tooth and claw,”
and that, as Dr. Parker remarked, we take in innumerable
animals with the air we breathe and the water we drink.

The tiger kills with a blow, and often before his presence
is known, and many carnivora hypnotize their prey. Millions
of minute creatures in air and water live in our bodies as
happily as outside. That is very different from the inﬂiction
of needless suffering on sentient creatures capable of affection
and endowed with-abilities sometimes superior to those of
man. It is a gross abuse of man’s power.

Mr. W. H. Lecky, in his “ History of European
Morals,” wrote:——“I vetnture to maintain that there are
multitudes to whom the necessity of discharging the duties of
a butcher would be so inexpressibly painful and revolting
that, if they could obtain ﬂesh food on no other condition,
they would relinquish it for ever.”

5

 




No ﬂocks that range the valley free
To slaughter I condemn;
Taught by the Power that pities me,
I learn to pity them.”
———Oli'ver Goldsmith, ‘-‘ The Hermit.”

Mr. George Bernard Shaw wrote :—

“ Why should you call me to account for eating
decently? If I battened on the scorched corpses of animals,
you might well ask mewhy I did that.”

Sir Isaac Pitman, in a letter to the Times, wrote :—

“ I attribute my health and power of endurance to abstin-
ence from ﬂesh meat and intoxicating drinks.”

In his. seventy-sixth year he said, “Forty years ago,
dyspepsia was carrying me to the grave. Doctors advised
meat three times a day. On this I grew worse. I'avoided
the meat and wine, gradually recovered my digestive power,
and have never known since, by any pain, that I have a
stomach. These forty years have been spent in arduous
labours in connection ‘with shorthand and editorial duties.”

Viscountess Harberton once wrote :—

“Many of the more revolting forms of cruelty in the
present day are beginning to call. forth strong denunciation.
But the subject is in many ways often indirectly complicated
by the prevalent idea that the need for the decoration of the
female human being is so absolute that it must even take
precedence of questions of morality. . . . . . Hence there
ensues a blindness all round in connection with the Obtaining
of fur and feathers.”

Again quoting Howard Moore :-——
“ Man is in many particulars excelled by those whom

he calls ‘ lower.’ The locomotion of the bird is far superior
in ease and expedition to the shuffling locomotion of man.

6

 

 

2|er
Us...

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

The horse has a sense which guides it through darkness in
which human eyes are blind; and the manner in which a cat
who has been carried in a bag and put down miles away will
turn up at the back door of the old home next morning,
dumbfounders science.”

“The horse who suffers. and serves. and starves in
silence, who endures daily wrongs of scanty and irregular
meals, excessive burdens and mangled ﬂanks, who forgets
cruelty and ingratitude, and does good to them that spitefully
use him, and submits to crime without resistance, misunder-
standing without murmur and insult without resentment, is
a better Christian, a better exemplar of the Sermon on the
Mount than many Church-goers.”

Would you learn forgiveness, go to the dog. The dog
can stand more abuse and forgive greater accumulations of
wrong than any other animal, not even excepting a wife.
i”3¥..bout the only thing in the universe superior to the dog in
willingness to undergo outrage is the human stomach.”

FOR THE CHILDREN’S COLUMN.

Mrs. Annie MacDonald, in “ At the Sign of the
Southern Cross,” describes a “Congress of Birds,” which
was addressed by Mr. Wren and Mrs. Jay. Mr. Wren
said :—

“The subject I would touch upon, important IS to all,
And should be heard and pondered o’er by birds, both
great and small. .

It is the dreadful cruelty displayed to us by man.

We do no harm that I can see, look at it as you can.

’Tis true we eat some grains and fruit, but we eat insects

too;

And so, instead of enemies, we are man’s friends most

true.
Can we do aught to remedy this sad, sad, state of things ?

All who are anxious here to help will please to ﬂap their
wings.”

\I

 




and Mrs. jay’s contribution to the debate was :———

“ My friends, I’ve listened well to Mr. VVren’s remarks,
And I, too, wonder why in all our gardens and our parks,
A pretty bird can’t ﬂy about among the trees and ﬂowers,
lVIaking the best of. sunny days through all life’s happy
hours,

But some rude boy must come along and ugly stones
must throw,

And so, away from many a place, we ﬁnd we have to go.

Last week my husband and my self were pe1cl1ed up in a
tree

When we saw two- ladies coming, as pretty as could be;

And I said,“ Now just listen to what they have to say.”

Oh, my dear friends! I’ n1 glad 11e did not ﬂy away,

For this is what we heard them say; ’tis not pleasant to
repeat;

One hoped for something kind and good from ladies fair
and sweet.

just as ill luck 11 ould ha1 e it then, the1 sa11 us in the tlee,

And the one called to the other, “ 011! do look quick
and see

That lovely bright blue bird up there; I feel quite certain
that

It would look just bewitching in my black velvet hat.

I’ll get my brother T0111 to come and bring his new shot
gun,

He’ll shoot the bird, and I’ve no doubt but he’ll enjoy
the fun.”

 




