The following letter has appeared in very many London and Provincial papers :—

BIRD LOVERS AND BIRD FANCIERS.

To the Editor.

Will you grant me a small space in your paper? Last week I Was
visiting the “Grand National Cage Bird Show” at the Crystal Palace.
As the swing doors of the hall closed behind me I heard the twittering of
many birds. N0 joy in that sound, and still less in the sight of those
hundreds of small cages, each with its ﬂuttering occupant. I had passed
on my long upward journey from thestation to the hall numerous bright
and pleasant posters, showing parrots and smaller birds amongst gay,
tropical foliage and ﬂowers to advertise the Cage Bird Show. Though,
surely, ﬂowers and leaves are the right setting for birds, they are hardly
the right setting for advertising a show of this kind, neither can I believe
that “ cage bird” is the right term for any bird—caged, indeed, they are,
but no bird was made for a cage. It’s a trapped thing with wings that we
see in a cage—it should be a Wingless, painted musical-box! The poster
also told me that there were prizes oﬁered to the extent of £ 1,000, so there
we have the reason for the show.

I arrived rather early, the rooms had not warmed up and were
intensely cold; many birds looked numbed and chilled; most of them
hopped backwards and forwards, forwards and backwards endlessly in their
narrow prisons—some pushed at the bars. Amongst all these thousands of
little ﬂuttering things not one looked contented—just “ Toys for Ignorance,”
as Mr. “ Punch ” said. Bird fanciers, not bird lovers, were there to stare
at them and to poke strange faces close to the cages-—the little frightened
things inside could not even hide. The cages are specially made for
“ show cases,” so that the bird must always be on view for the three
days of the show. This is absolutely against the nature of a bird (being
designed to hide amongst leaves). Our British wild birds dislike publicity
——we should sympathise with them.

I bought my catalogue. On turning the pages we ﬁnd what “ cage
birds " are. They are, only to mention a few, thrushes, b ckbirds,
nightingales, magpies—mbirds of leafy glade and tree top. They are gold-
ﬁnches and greenﬁnches, bullﬁnches, linnets, chafﬁnches, and many others
who weed our, ﬁelds and make pleasant our gardens. Beautiful tits who
haunt.-the..pineJYQQdiBQW7 try to make the best of ﬁve inches of- twisted
ﬁr in a tiny space no bigger'th'afn” my“‘two~hands: wThere ~~are~~woodpeckers,
shyest of all birds, not daring to move from the little pieces of bark provided
for them; starlings which, when free, live in great happy companies,
crouching alone in wooden cells. -

Have you ever seen the little long—tails swinging from branch to branch,
a dozen or so together, or the tiny chiffchaff, herald of Spring, slipping
through new beech leaves P If you have, look into their cages at the show
——it makes one feel ashamed!

We will pass from our own birds to the “Foreign Section.” They are
weavers and whydahs, ﬁnches and combasous, birds of the sun. They
are tanagers, palm birds, sugar birds, sun birds, insect and spider catching
birds—so many of these lovely things. A very sad humming bird I saw,
with two perches instead of ﬂowing trees, a small jar instead of ﬂower
nectar—this ﬂashing jewel of the sun a prisoner in English Winter! And
seventeen lovely Japanese robins, very charming and interesting birds,
which pine and die when they lose their mates. They are netted for the
English market in Japan—4t is estimated that out of 100 caught only one
arrives in England, so these 17 birds represent 1,683 dead birds.

I leave the exhibition and take sad pictures with me, not the least of
which is the memory of a magpie trying in a small, cramped space to eat
a mealworm without at the same time damaging his tail.

Yours, etc. ,

T. FISHER SMITH.

Copies of this leaﬂet may be obtained gratis from

Miss Mo BRADISH,
R.S.P.C.A. Caged Bird Poster Fund,
95 Park Road,
Chiswick, WA

 




