DEAN OF LLANDAFF

VIVISECTION,

 

LONDON:
VICTORIA STREET AND INTERNATIONAL SOCIETY
FOR THE PROTECTION OF ANIMALS FROM
VIVISECTION, 20, VICTORIA STREET, SW.

1894.

 

 




Printed by PEW TRESS (5' 00.,
28, LITTLE QUEEN STREET, HIGH I‘IOLBORN, LONDON, W.C

 

 




 

VIVISECTION.

By 0. J. VAUGHAN, 111).,

MASTER on THE TEMPLE, DEAN 0F LLANDAFF, AND CHAPLAIN IN ORDINARY

TO HER MAJESTY.

 

 

“ W'e know that the whole Creation groaneth and tramileth in pain

together until now.”—ROMANS VIII., 22.

THE following clause, “ And not only they, but
ourselves also,” shows that the text was not written of
Christians as such. St. Paul distinguishes between the
sufferings of the creation? and the suffering of Christians.
It becomes necessary, and very difﬁcult, to discover the
thought of the text. “ The whole Creation ” . . . .
“ and not only they ”—what is this “ universe of created
being,” which yet stands outside the gate of Christian
privilege and the spiritual life ‘9

Without excluding other blessed mysteries of undeﬁned

hope, which may lie hidden from our view in this

”g. ,_.____.,A_ -..__._..__._,__ _ mw*.ﬂnm _, _.._..A._,, hr ,,_

 




 

 

4

remarkable, this unique, passage of the Book of God,
we must at least see in it a revelation of Divine
compassion for those irrational creatures, whose very
existence is so strangely, so cruelly affected by man’s
fall and sin. It is not often, I know—we have
called this a unique passage—that the eye of the
Apostle is diverted for a moment, by scenes of
external beauty or by emotions of natural sentiment,
from the “ direct forthright” of his work as
the Apostle and Evangelist of sin-ruined man. It is
mere fancy—and scarcely a plausible fancy—which
imagines St. Paul, in his weather-bound tarryings or
stormed-tossed voyagings in the cause of a Gospel
which he felt to be the one food and the one medicine
of a suffering, dying humanity, to have been enjoying
natural objects, or feasting upon historic associations.
We rather picture him as exemplifying, everywhere
and in all things, that absolute absorption in thoughts
of God and the soul, which he expresses so power—
fully in that saying—~a single monosyllable it is in the
Greek—“This one thing I do.” Poetical personiﬁca-
tions, such as should embody in an earth scarred by

volcanoes or strewn with graves, human feelings of

 




 

, mun—mm -—..m..__-—....___———< .- W_ ..,,

5
distress or bereavement—or infer, from the ceaseless play

and smile of his waters,

“ Such signs of love Old Ocean gives,

We cannot choose but think he lives ”—

Would be quite inadequate, almost incongruous sugges-
tions, in explanation of the “groaning and travailing”
here ascribed to creation. But it is not entirely so,
where the fact of life enters. St. Paul could not traverse
rural regions, or walk through crowded towns, without
being everywhere reminded of the wrongs of irrational
creatures, or without recognising, in each instance of
these, a symptom of that fearful universal plague, of sin
and death, for which he was charged with the one Divine
remedy, the Gospel of grace and salvation in the life, and
the death, and the life after death, of our Lord Jesus
Christ. I

The text thus understood, introduces a subject of
painful interest in these last days ; a subject upon Which
it is' necessary that the Christian conscience should be
ﬁrst enlightened and then urged to action; a subject,
ﬁnally, on which I have been personally appealed to,
and to which I have thought it my duty, for your sake

as for my own, to give earnest heed.

 




 

6

Unscientiﬁc persons do well, I think, to mistrust and
suspect themselves in the formation and expression of
opinion on a matter like this. They will be accused of
being—and it is true, they are so—less keenly alive than
perhaps they ought to be to the importance of physio-
logical research. Their habits of thought predispose
them another way.

If, in addition to this inaptitude, they are persons who
have a horror of pain-—not only when it approaches them-
selves, but when they see it, or hear of it, or read of it in
another—they have reason to suspect in themselves a
morbid sentiment. They do well to keep silence while
they may upon subjects where possibly antipathy may be
the truer name for sympathy. Also we feel,and we ought
to feel, an unfeigned deference towards an honourable and
noble profession, to which we all in our turn have to lay
Ourselves under unspeakable obligations. They to whom we
turn in our keenest distresses, and to whom we never turn
in vain, have a right to our most scrupulous, most respectful
regard, when the topic is one upon which they know where
we guess, and when the profession which speaks to us,
though we cannot concede to it a monopoly of humanity,

yet proves itself, by its daily and hourly self-denials and

 

 

 




 

 

7
self—devotions, no unworthy representative, in this part
of His work, of One Who “Himself took our inﬁrmitie's
and bore our sicknesses.” When we carry such a question
into the House of God, we are bound, ﬁrst of all, to
enquire into its religious aspect.

I. And here, the ﬁrst thing which meets us is this.
In what sense, and by what right, do we treat the thing
that hath life, as lying at the mercy of the other thing
that hath life ? I confess to you, that the use, and still
more the taking away, of animal life, is a liberty which I
feel to require warrant. I ﬁnd that warrant in the
Bible. They who discard the Bible ought to “ go afoot,”
and ought to “ eat herbs.” To “ serve myself of”
another being, for convenience or for recreation, would
be an impertinence, without permission of the owner.
To break into the house of another life is a sacrilege if it
be not an inspiration. I read the one permission in the
Creation, and I read the other permission in the Resto-
ration. Dominion, which implies service, is given in the
ﬁrst chapter of the Bible: the grant of life for food is
recorded in the ninth. To Adam God gave the one—to
Noah God gave the other. I fail to ﬁnd in the Bible any

later or any further giftq I do not: discovery in the Bible

 




 

 

8

any unlimited, any unqualiﬁed gift of the irrational life to
the rational, or any such view of the irrational life as should
make it the mere sport, or the mere victim, or (to speak
plainly) the mere subject, of the other life that hath reason.

I do ﬁnd this, beyond—namely, that the irrational life
is insigniﬁcant and of no account in comparison with the
soul, with the spiritual life, of the rational. Thus I meet
an objection which might be drawn from the profuse, the
lavish expenditure of animal life in the Levitical sacriﬁces.
In this instance the Owner and Lord of all life was
pleased to sanction the typical outpouring of blood, for
the highest spiritual instruction of which His rational
creature was then capable. But notice, ﬁrst, it was for
the soul’s sake; notice, secondly, that there was no torture.

“Ye are of more value”—ye who have souls in you——

V“ than many sparrows ; ” yet mark also the words, “ Not

one of them falleth to the ground without your Father.”

We observe in the same Book, and in the same part of
the Book, which gives irrational life (1) for the service,
(2) for the food, (8) for the spiritual good of the rational,
a most guarded, a most reverent, a most delicate treatment
of life as life. “ Flesh, with the life, which is the blood,
ye shall not eat.” The eating of the living thing—every

 




9
form of disgusting, morbid, Cannibal voracity—and, along
with it, every form of prolonged and protracted deprivation
of being, was an impiety because an inhumanity. The
Lord of all set this limit to his giving: Thou shalt not
be ﬁlthy, and thou shalt not be brutal, in thy having!

It is still more remarkable that even in the use of the
slain thing that much despised Book of the Law teaches
a delicacy which is almost fastidious. Thrice in the
Books of Moses occurs that saying, “Thou shalt not
seethe the kid in his mother’s milk.” Thou shalt not
use the living mother to furnish forth the dressing of the
dead offspring. Why not? Because it offends against that
tender sensibility which, as much as the ﬁrst rule of
humanity, is of God; because. that which is immaterial
to the dead thing, and immaterial to the mother of the
dead thing, is yet material, vital to the well—being of the
human ; because there is a higher thing in man than the
utilitarian dreams of, and that higher thing is precious
in the sight of God and honourable.

There is a reverence due to life as life. If the irrational
life has no future the more reason is there that it be
respected in the present ; that that which is its sole term

be not cut short by the caprice of a being more privileged ;

 

 




 

 

10

that it be suffered to live out its three years, or its seven
years, or its ten years, because it has no lot and no portion
in the everlasting. If, as some deem, there be a future
even for it—if, as some read this present chapter, even
the brute life has an interest in that “ liberty of the glory
of the children of God” for which it is groaning and
travailing in pain now—then the “ precious ” passes into
he “ honourable,” and that which was valuable to itself
by reason of its shortness, shall become venerable to
another order by reason of its immortality.

2. But, if the gift of the brute creation to the human
were absolute and unconditional—if no such limitations
as have been suggested were real or binding, we do but
transfer the proceeding into another court—we have to
ask now, If the morality is settled as regards the victim,
how stands it as to the operator ? Is it for his good that
this poor abject life be slowly scooped away, without, or
even with, a benevolent purpose ?

It will scarcely be denied that the familiar sight of
suﬂering, divorced from the intention and habit of
succouring, is morally injurious. Even pity, apart from
helping, all moralists tell you, is mischievous to the

principles. How much more the suppression of pity—the




 

 

11

getting over (as it is called) the impulse to commiserate
If not to act upon feeling is dangerous, how much more
dangerous to check, and kill, and make a mock of feeling !
Thus all reﬂecting men come to this—~that to multiply
tortures, to exhibit tortures, to play with tortures, is
horrible, and' must be put down. The very least that
England will cry out for will be the minimising of those
ghastly experiments—the restriction of them to the
trustworthy few—the exclusion from them alike of the
idle spectator and the raw apprentice. But is this all?
Have we yet reached the root of the matter? If the
inﬂiction of suffering, apart from a remedial purpose, is
cruelty and a sin—does it follow that every inﬂiction of
suﬂering which pleads a medical purpose is thereby
justiﬁed? Other considerations have place still, and upon
these must largely depend the moral aspect of the whole.
Something will turn upon the deﬁniteness, upon the
practical character, of the end made for. Suffering
inﬂicted for the bare chance that something may come of
it—suffering inﬂicted on peradventure and in the dark,
on the speculation that nature may reveal this, that, or
anything, you know not and care not what, to a blind

and unscrupulous explorer—this is cruelty, this is

 




12 l
impiety. God who gave you your life gave that other,
and He gave it not to you but to the other. For that l
life, invaded, experimented upon, tormented, depend }
upon it, an account must be rendered—ﬁrst in conscience, l
secondly in consequence, thirdly in the judgment. It j
is plain that curiosity alone, discovery alone, is an I
insufﬁcient justiﬁcation. It. is conceivable that, under 5
certain circumstances, the commission of a crime might j
admit a man into some chamber of science. Who would l
justify that? Evidently, then, science does not supersede l
morality. The man who had committed a crime of '
violence or a crime of fraud, or a crime of sensuality, to i
discover a physical secret, could plead the motive at the l
bar of no tribunal, Divine or human. In other words,
you must settle the morality of the means, before you can
urge the importance of the end. l
Bounds are set to human knowledge. Readers of the ‘
Bible, observe this principle in the record of the Fall and
its Judgment. It was of the tree of knowledge that man
plucked the forbidden fruit; and it was from the tree of
perpetual life, with its possibilities of unlimited progress,
that that disobedience debarred him. Since that day he
has pursued knowledge under the added difﬁculties of

 

 




 

 

13
shortened days and decaying powers—and he has had no
immunity from those laws of morality, even in that brief
course, which remind him that there is one thing better
than knowledgew- “ The fear of the Lord, that is wisdom ;
and to depart from evil, that is understanding.” This is
no argument against the utmost zeal and devotion in the
interrogation of nature by science. It only reminds us
that, as there are secrets which God has hitherto kept
from human discovery, and with regard to which it
pleases Him still to set a fence around us that we may be
humble, and that we may be laborious in seeking—so
whatever is wrong in itself or injurious in its consequences
is to be discarded at once in that search; either the thing
itself is out of our reach, or its attainment waits for
methods not yet in possession. It is no disparagement of
physical science to say that there is one thing higher. It
is no indication of an indifference to human suffering to say
that there is one thing more important. The prolongation
of earthly life, the mitigation of bodily inﬁrmity, the cure
of diseases hitherto counted mortal, the performance of
operations formerly reckoned impossible, the restoration
of halt or lame to disused functions by the discovery of

modes and appliances formerly not dreamed of—these are

 




 

14
great and noble objects, the value of which any one of us
may live to learn afresh in some hour of distress and
anguish, his own, or twice his own—near to him, this
day, or far off. God forbid that we should speak of these
things as triﬂing, or forget who wrote the words, in
reference to a friend’s restoration from dangerous
sickness—a friend, whose eternity was safe—“ God had
mercy on him . . . . and on me also.” This only we
add—and we should be no Christians if we held it back——
there is a life higher than the earthly, and whatsoever
exaggerates this dishonours that. If you speak as though
this life were all—if you act as though you thought so—
if you once admit that every unrelieved pain, every
undiscovered secret, in the life that now is, is so great an
evil that, it matters not how presumptuous or how cruel
the method, it must be, by fair means or foul, vanquished
and brought under dominion—you are defying matter at
the expense of spirit; you are pampering the lower
nature at the cost of the higher; you are running
the risk of making mankind more coarse, more cruel,
more brutal, and ‘in the same degree less worthy of
that place at the head of creation which yet you

ns olently assert for it—you are helping to make the life

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

15

which we share with the brute predominate over the
life of eternity and heaven—you are disparaging the
Gospel virtues of patience and hope in comparison with
heathen estimates of sense and time—in short, you are
aggravating the groans of a travailing creation, by
obscuring before them the revelation of the glory that
shall be revealed.

“ Thou, Lord ”—the Psalmist writes, with a force, it
may be, concealed from the superﬁcial—“ shalt save both
man and beast.” God has a future in store, it may be,
for both, on this earth which He has created. We know
not-—“ above what is written” we would not be “ wise.”
Yet, if “the creature itself also,” as this passage tells,
“ shall be delivered from the bondage of corruption into
the liberty of the glory of God's children,” we have a
magniﬁcent scene opened before us, of which it would be
as presumptuous to limit the compass as to deﬁne the
nature. Others besides God’s children shall share the
emancipation from the servitude and the travail that is
now—and who are these ?

Meanwhile there is one way, and but one, by which we
can effectually lighten the yoke of the temporal—and that

s by passing ourselves, from life unto death, through the

 




16
knowledge of God Himself revealed to us in his Son.
Just in proportion to the number of those who here live
the new life, will be the relief from every burden of
oppression and wrong for those who draw, like us and
with us, the breath of the old. Associations of philan-
thropic men, inﬂuences of tender-hearted women, may
do something in mitigation of sufferings, human and
animal. We despise none of these efforts: they are
reﬂections of Gospel light, they are echoes of Gospel
doctrine. But it is the Gospel, itself and alone, which
so does good here as not to work some corresponding ill

there; which reproduces the whole of God in the whole

of man; which makes inﬂuence all wholesome because

all wise, and suffers no exaggeration and no caricature in
that likeness of the Divine perfection, which it restores
in a degenerate creation. The expectation of the glory
which shall be revealed, makes us tolerant of the sufferings
of this present—tolerant for ourselves, patient for others
—anXious only for this, that we ourselves do honour to
our holy calling, and show forth the praises of Him who
hath called us out of darkness into His marvellous light.
[This sermon. was preached in 187 6, and is here

reprinted for the fourth time]

 




