HOW TO BEFRIEND
* LABORATORY ANIMALS

By CHARLES W. HUME

Published by

UFAW

(The Universities Federation for Animal Welfare)

284 Regent’s Park Road. Finchley, London, N3.

October, 1949., Price 3d.

 




v. s A ,
¢_,z<.,.., »

_‘

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

THE AIMS OF UFAW

To enlist the inﬂuence of university men and Women on behalf
of the humane treatment of animals, wild and domestic.

To promote, by educational and other methods, interest in the
humane treatment of animals in Great Britain and abroad.

To lessen, by methods appropriate to the special character of a
university organization, the pain and tear inﬂicted on animals by
man.

To obtain and disseminate accurate knowledge relating to the
welfare of animals.

To further and to promote legislation for the humane treatment
of animals.

 

Pk.

 




 

HOW TO BEFRIEND LABORATORY
ANIMALS

By Charles W. Hume.

 

 

History of the problem.

In 1863 it became known that veterinary students in France
were being required to perform, as part of their training, operations
on live horses without anaesthetics; a series of operations on each
horse. A memorial signed by 500 British veterinary surgeons was
taken to Alfort by a Mr. James Cowie, and the practice was
subsequently discontinued. The shock it had given to British public
opinion led, however, to discussion of experiments on animals as
practised in this country ; lay opinion was aroused by the writings
of Miss Frances Power Cobbe, and on the scientiﬁc side the British
Association studied the subject on the initiative of Charles Darwin,
Lyon Playfair and other humane scientists. The report of a Royal
Commission on Vivisection, published in 1876, resulted in the
Cruelty to Animals Act (I87 ), which is still in force and protects
research workers from vexatious litigation but provides certain safe~
guards for the ”animals. A second Royal Commission reported in
1912 and made recommendations as to the administration of the

' Act ; most of these have been adopted.

At ﬁrst the anti-vivisectionists, led by Miss Cobbe, co—operat‘ed
with humane scientists, but when the Act was passed they were
very dissatisﬁed with it. They were, in fact, in a very difﬁcult
position. They were ﬁlled with horror by the Alfort incident and
some other occurrences that had come to light ; they had a notion.
that they had been betrayed in some way by their scientiﬁc friends ;‘
without having had any scientiﬁc training themselves, they had to
deal with highly technical subject—matter; and they wished to appeal
to the lay public, which was almost as unwilling then as" now to
understand anything that is at all difﬁcult or complicated, or to
take notice of anything that is not said in a sensational way. In
these difﬁcult circumstances, groping in a half—light and tormented

I

 




 

 

by an urgent sense of horror, they adopted methods that have
characterized the anti-Vivisection propaganda ever since. They
simpliﬁed their policy by demanding the total abolition of all experi-
ments on animals without discrimination, simpliﬁed their polemic
by asserting that experiments on animals cannot usefully advance
medical knowledge, and simpliﬁed their indictment by alleging that
all experiments are cruel and all experimenters heartless. It is easy
to guess how this mode of propaganda arose, but equally easy to

C

understand the intense resentment aroused by it in the minds of >'

scientists. That resentment has discouraged many from making the
stand they might otherwise have made against cruel experiments.
They are afraid of seeming to countenance indiscriminate anti-
vivisection propaganda, and prefer, like Charles Darwin after the
schism, to “ bear their share of the abuse poured in so atrocious a
manner on all physiologists.” On the other hand, whatever their
short-comings, the ant'i-vivisectionists have kept our consciences
awake. However much we may disagree with their methods, that
fact entitles them to our gratitude.

Failure of a proposed solution.

The abolitionist policy, that is to say the demand for the aboli-.
tion of all experiments on animals without discrimination, has not
been successful. Since it was promulgated the number of experiments
performed annually has increased rapidly ; in I883 there were 311
experiments, in I948 over a million and a half. No anti-
vivisection Bill has reached second reading in either House since
I88I. In 1929 when an anti-vivisectionist, Mr. J. R. Clynes, was
Home Secretary, Sir Robert Gower asked him in the House of
Commons to introduce legislation prohibiting experiments on dogs ;
he refused on the ground of advice tendered by the Government’s
professional advisers. If the abolition (as distinct from regulation)
of experiments on animals ever became probable, the Medical
Research Council, the Agricultural Research Council, the
Royal Society, the B.M.A., the N.V.M.A., the Royal Colleges, the
Ministries of Health, Agriculture and Food, the Home Ofﬁce, the
Colonial Ofﬁce and the Defence Services, backed by scientiﬁc and
medical opinion,‘would ensure its being averted.

On the other hand it is illegal to perform an experiment on a
living animal for the purpose of attaining manual skill, but this
enactment is apt to work out rather badly; its effect is that all
veterinary surgeons and some physiologists, instead of practising
upon animals that are destined to be killed before they return to
consciousness after being anaesthetized, must acquire manual skill at
the expense of animals that are intended for recovery and will
suffer, therefore, if an operation should be bungled. Another rule

2

 

 

 




 

 

is that demonstration experiments must be done under an
anasthetic and will, therefore, normally belong to the more severe
class of experiments. Again it is true that the Dogs Act, 1906,
prohibits the use of stray dogs for vivisection, but the effect of that
is that dogs bought from dealers have to be used instead, and the
resulting high prices tempt thieves. to deprive dogs of their homes.
It is true also that according to law a horse must not be used if any
other animal will do, and a cat or dog must not be used for experi-
ments without anaesthetics if any other animal will do. Horses,
cats and dogs are such favourite animals that they are likely to be
treated with more careful consideration than other species in the
laboratory, and the effect of the law is to substitute for them animals

- which are equally sensitive to suffering but less likely to receive

specially considerate treatment.

These are, I think, the only instances in which the abolitionist
policy has been realized, and although they give satisfaction to pet—
owners they are disadvantageous to animals. '

An analogy.

In the nature of the case the abolitionist policy was bound to
fail ; it is as if I were to demand the abolition of the motor car in
View of the fact that in I946 no fewer than 5,062 persons were killed
and 157,484 injured in road accidents in Britain, often with cruel
mutilation, and that the same sort of thing happens year after year.
In support of my thesis I might describe in gruesome detail some
of the injuries inﬂicted on attractive young children. I might allege
that motor cars are unnecessary, and our ancestors were happier
without them, as the inhabitants of Sark still are ; that Sir Frederick
Treves would be able to cross London by tube a good deal faster
than by taxi ; that cars break down, and freeze up, and get ditched,
and catch ﬁre, and skid into shop windows, and menace the morals
of innocent young women. As to the effectiveness of mere
palliatives, I could point to the pedestrian crossings that few pedes—
trians use and few motorists take any notice of, the trafﬁc policemen
diverted from other duties, the safety—ﬁrst weeks and weeping-
widow posters, and the ghastly toll of life and limb that accrues to
the motorist every week in spite of all. I could allege that every
driver is a Toad of Toad Hall at heart and every road-house bar a
Sybaris seething with tipsy road—hogs. I could paint a picture of
the highways of this land as a gladiatorial arena ﬁlled with sadistic
speed-maniacs in pursuit of' agile and terriﬁed pedestrians, and
strewn with the corpses of honest cyclists who have been‘butchered
to make a British bank holiday.

I could put about a very strong propaganda for the abolition
of the motor car, and denounce anybody who refused to support me

3

 




 

 

 

 

as a,_traitor to ; the . pedestrians’ cause, but my prospect of. success
would be pretty much the same as the prospect of abolishing all
experiments on animals. Parliament, guided by the Government’s
technical advisers, .would prefer to fall back on such bland
expedients as invoking the good will and decent feeling of the
motoring fraternity, using all the complicated machinery of trafﬁc
lights and. trafﬁc cops and Belisha beacons, and as a last resort
takinglegaIaCtion against outstanding offenders.

What, isythe use of experiments on animals ?

f.“ Medicine is partly empirical and partly scientiﬁc. Migraine'is
treated empirically; the doctor tries various palliatives that have
been known to give some relief, and if he finds one that suits his
patient a little better than others he cannot tell why it should do
so. Experiments on animals are of little use to empirical medicine ;
it is useless to try such things on the dog because the dog’s reactions
may be quite different from those of a human patient.

Scientiﬁc medicine, on the other hand, is based on an under-
standing of the way the body works, and on the natural history
of bacteria and protozoa and helminths. All mammals have blood,
lungs, stomachs and nerves, and the differences as well as the
resemblances between species make possible the comparative
method which is such a powerful organon of biological research. By
means of controlled experiments a general understanding of the laws
that describe organic life can be built up, and in the light of that
understanding medical treatments can be devised, The difference
between empirical and scientiﬁc medicine is like the difference
between anuamateur who changes one or two parts in a faulty
wireless: set in the hope that it will come right, and a wireless
mechanic’Who knows the circuit and goes over it with voltmeter

l,

and C.R.Q. Now anybody who says that medicine, in so far as it
haIS‘b-ecome scientiﬁc, ‘does not depend on physiology, pathology
and‘ph‘armacology, or that those sciences could have progressed so
fariasjthey lhaVe without experiments on animals, is so obviously
ta‘lkin‘gzthrough his hat that he puts himself out of court and wrecks
hrs—chanced being taken seriously.

Butgthat is not to say, by any means, that every experiment
leadsfto- useful knowledge. As a reviewer in N ature remarked with
regards-to cancer (Igth August, 1944, page 224): “ It must regret—
fu,ll;y~- be admitted'that there is a legacy of many years of research,
much of which is under grave suspicion of being completely
Uneritical? and technically unreliable.” Moreover the theory
requisite for the efficient statistical design of experiments is of very
recent growth, and all too few biologists make sufﬁcient use of it.
Some very; - cru‘el experiments have been ill conceived, badly
designed, unnecessary, and wastefully carried out. Nevertheless,

"4

 

 

 

 




 

:3: 1 .

 

 

 

J46»?

to admit all this is very different from saying that, by and large,i
experiments on animals have not yielded useful knowledge; that
would be not only untrue but fantastic, like saying that the earth

, is ﬂat or that rheumatism 1s caused by witchcraft.

The risks to which laboratory animals are exposed.

Pain is a sensation, like touch, sight and hearing, and is
something totally different from intelligence and. selfrconsciousnessa
In animals and men alike there are pain—nerve ﬁbres, no less than
optic nerves and nerve ﬁbres for. sensing heat,-Icold, sound-and;
muscular tension. Sensation is a more primitive mode of Conscious-.1 ‘
ness than thought or introspection,: and the senses-of. animals often
have a lower threshold than those of men; so, for instance, has '
smell in the dog, night vision in» the cat,- andgtouch in the pig’s
snout. An authoritative treatment Of the sensibility of animals to
pain will be found 1n the UP AW monograph The Scienizﬁc Basis of
Kindness to Ammals, by Dr. John R Baker 3 1 1 .

It is a tragic error to Suppose that 'because‘ani'mals are less
intelligent than men they therefore feel lees pain. A young baby
is less intelligent than a kitten of the same age but it yells as ener-i
getically if you accidentally tread on it—crede experto. Moreover
emotions such as fear are more primitive than thought or reason,
and animals appear to have emotions as strong as, if less complicated
than, those of human beings * . .

Laboratory animals are exposed to f1Ve risks: —-— ‘ ». , vesi-

‘ (I) Certain animals, the horse cat and dog, are more
generally understood and consequently more popular than other
species It is possible to cite experiments done on dogs under
anaesthetics and then repeated on less popular animals Without
anmsthetiCS There 1s a danger of animals like rats, wh1ch happen,
to be unpopular but are as lovable as any others When you under—,
stand them, being sacrificed to the feelings of pet— owners
Incidentally, if dogs were exempted from experiment n1ne-tenths
of the interest which the public takes 1n the subject would probably
disappear.

(2) When a research worker has to adjudicate [between the
claims of his own research and those of the material he 1s using 111
it, he is liable to be biased in favour of the former.

(3) A doctor’s job IS to care for human life and limb, and it

takes him all his time, so much so that there 15 a risk of his under-
valuing all considerations other than those which absorb his atten—

5

 




 

 

 

 

 

tion. When, therefore, the claims of laboratory animals have to be
balanced against those of human medicine a medical scientist tends
to be biased. A zoologist or a veterinary surgeon, who on one hand
is a human being himself and on the other is a student of animals,
may be expected to have less difficulty in taking an unbiased View.

(4) A person who feels it his duty to inﬂict some degree of
suffering is in danger of having his sensibility blunted in the course
of time in respect of what at ﬁrst was repugnant to him, and the
more sensitive he is by temperament the mere he tends to shield
his feelings by means of the process of repression. This hardening
effect seems to be largely speciﬁc ; a person becomes callous about
things he is accustomed to do, but not necessarily about anything
else. The old rule that butchers should not serve on juries in trials
for murder, for fear that they might take too lenient a view of
acts of violence, was based on a very speculative psychology.

In general, I believe it may be said that the average biologist
. is probably more, not less, humane than the average layman,
especially, in respect of unpopular animals like rats and guinea-pigs;
nevertheless the danger of his becoming callous about experimental
procedures is a real one that he must take deliberate precautions
against.

(5) Psychopathic cruelty, a morbid pleasure in the inﬂiction
of suffering, is not uncommon; witness the crowds who used
to flock to see a hanging. Moreover it can coexist with acute
intellectual gifts, as it did in the Comte de Sade himself, and there
is therefore a danger that sufferers from this complaint may be
attracted into research because of the: opportunities it might offer
them. I do not know of any such case in Britain, but there are
clear indications of sadism in some foreign experiments. In certain
excessively cruel foreign work on rats the number of animals used
was farin excess of what was requisite for the purpose in view ; and
in some cruel psycho—physiological experiments on dogs the
experimenter spent “ from one to seven hours almost daily ”
watching the animals during seven months in one case and twelve
months in another. Both excessive sample—size and gloating are
prima—facie indications of sadism.

How much do laboratory animals suffer in Britain ?

A clear distinction must be drawn between laboratories in
Britain and those in other countries. Some of the latter have
laws about experiments on animals, but none except Switzerland,
Sweden and Eire have any machinery for giving effect to them.

6

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

The system existing in this country is very British. It is
archaic and illogical and yet it has worked pretty well, though its
, task has now outgrown its resources. A person who knew no more
of it than what he could learn from the wording of the Act of I876
might suppose it to be mere eye- -wash, but anybody who thinks it
really IS mere eye—wash should compare British with foreign experi—
mentation and then think again. A kind of traditional gentlemen’s
agreement has grown up between scientists and the Home Ofﬁce,
and though one may wish it to be improved in various ways it

affords a unique degree of protection to laboratory animals.

The law, which is rather complicated, is summarized in chapter
I of the UFAW Handbook on the Care of Laboratory Animals, and
only some of its practical effects will be mentioned here. Every
experimenter must be licensed by the Home Ofﬁce, and licences are
by no means to be had for the asking. Permission is never given
to perform an operation more serious than simple inoculation or
superﬁcial venesection on any vertebrate, be it dog, rat or frog,
without anaesthesia. Most of the operated animals are allowed to
recover consciousness and their condition thereafter depends on the
skill and care with which they are nursed as well as on the nature
of the operation.

About 9I per cent of experiments do not involve any operation
and in these cases anmsthetics are usually dispensed with. Although
in strict law the Act applies only to “ experiments calculated to
cause pain,” by a gentlemen’s agreement all experiments are dealt
with under it. Many inVolve no suffering at all; for instance
animals may be fed on a particular diet and weighed against
controls, or infected and then killed before their malady becomes
painful, or a sample of blood or a vaginal smear may be «taken after
administration of a hormone. Other experiments involve some
discomfort, such as moderate fever or the formation of a tumour
which does not reach a painful stage. But there are others again,
even in Britain,- which are more serious and involve severely
distressing symptoms; these I believe to be much less numerous,
but they exist. Although they appear to constitute only a small
percentage of the whole, their absolute number may nevertheless
be considerable. We have tried in UFAW to make, by sampling,
an estimate 'of the percentages of experiments characterized by
Various degrees of severity, but the task has defeated us so far.
Distress due to anxiety must not be overlooked.

To every licence issued by the Home Ofﬁce is attached the pain
rule, which requires that any animal found to be suffering severe
pain which is likely to endure must forthwith be painlessly killed ;
and in principle this must be done whether the main result of the
experiment has been achieved or nOt. I say “in principle ” because

7

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

, .in this matter practice does not quite always square with theory. It
__is often difﬁcult to judge with certainty from written reports of
researches, but there have been a number about which one must

feel uneasy, and some in which it is clear that the pain rule was not

7 observed.

The Home Ofﬁce has a staff of four inspectors who visit each
laboratory not quite twice a year on the average. The
second Royal Commission recommended on the basis of the
1905 ﬁgures that the number of inspectors should be doubled, but
the number of laboratories has increased so much since then that
there will have to be twenty—four inspectors instead of four if the
recommended scale is to be reached. You cannot, of course, deal
with responsible scientists on a detective—and-suspected-criminal
basis, and although the inspectors have disciplinary powers in
reserve their primary function is to advise licensees who must be
presumed to be law—abiding. The inspectors ought, however, to be
:able to consider all types of experiment minutely, bring precedents
under periodical review, go fully into the humanitarian and
technical qualiﬁcations of applicants for licences, and carry out
several other duties, but their task has outgrown their numbers so
far that the whole system is in danger of breaking down.

Apart from experimental procedures there is the important
question of the housing, care and comfort of the animals. This is
a serious matter, and one in which a great deal can be done for their
beneﬁt, and a great deal of attentionis in fact being paid to it
largely as a result of the publication of the U F AW Handbook. And
let it be borne in mind that the greater the care and affection
lavished on the animals in the animal room, the greater the con-
sideration that will be shown to them in the laboratory.
Psychological attitudes are infectious.

How much do laboratory animals suffer in foreign laboratories ?

Descartes’s theory of vortices survived Sir Isaac Newton by
some 50 years. on the continent, but his even more preposterous
theory of the robot animal has survived Charles Darwin longer yet,
and still colours the Latin attitude on such subjects. Professor
E. H. Starling used to say that much French and Italian physiology
had been vitiated by a failure to eliminate the effects of pain, and
when this remark was mentioned to Sir Joseph Barcroft it brought
out the comment that he once had to quit a French laboratory
because the cruelty going on there was going to make him vomit.
These two were physiologists of world-wide reputation, not likely to

be sentimental or squeamish.

In Russia, in Spain, in the Far East and in South-America there
is no law for the prevention of cruelty to animals, in laboratories or
anywhere else, and all too little mercy of any kind for man or beast.

8

 

 




American research workers have a voluntary ethical code and
presumably the majority conform to- it, though here again the less
popular animals seem to come off worst. The code cannot be
enforced by law, and instances of prolonged torture of a wholly
unjustiﬁable nature occur. Again, the'British Commonwealth as a
whole lags far behind the mother country.

Ethics: (1) suffering which is not required for the success of an
‘ experiment.

Much unnecessary suffering can be prevented if sufficient
trouble is taken by a competent staff, and in the best laboratories
this is done ; moreover there is a strong movement afoot for bringing
the care of animals in all laboratories up to the standard of the best ;
in this the UFAW Handbook is playing an important part. The
techniques of anaesthesia (with precautions against premature
recovery) and euthanasia ; operative skill and post-operative care ;
the selection and training of laboratory technicians and animal
attendants ; housing, feeding and watering ; hygiene, bedding, light,
shelter and ventilation ; company, play and exercise ; gentle, skilful
and frequent handling; a considerate recognition of the fact that
sentient creatures are something more than mere experimental
material; all such things can make the difference between misery and
a maximum of comfort. There can be no legitimate difference of
opinion about their importance; anybody who thinks that mere
animals are not worth all that fuss has a narrow little mind, and
is not fit to be a biologist, and incidentally the technical precision
of his results will be the worse for his m’enfoutisme.

There is another matter that does not admit of any legitimate
difference of opinion when once it has been propounded, although
its ethical aspect is less familiar. When an experiment involves any
degree of suffering it is morally wrong to use animals wastefully.
Homogeneous stocks of rats, mice and hamsters are now available,
and these show far less variability than animals bought from a small
dealer, so that fewer of them are needed for a given degree of
precision. F. R. VVinton found as long ago as 1926 that for a given
degree of precision in a. very painful research he was able to effect
a tenfold reduction in the number of rats required, by substituting
homogeneous for heterogeneous stock. Further, the factorial
planning of experimentswith a View to an analysis of variance often
reduces greatly the number of observations required. Possibly the
new sequential analysis will lead to a further reduction. It will be
agreed by everybody that the general use of these up—to—date
methods is a matter of urgency, in order to prevent the useless
multiplication of suffering.

 

 

 




 

 

 

Ethics: (2) man and beast.

The matters discussed in the preceding paragraph do not admit
of any reasonable difference of opinion, but we now come to a much
more difﬁcult question. When suffering cannot be avoided if a
given experiment is to be carried out, where is the line to be drawn P
We are faced with the perplexing problem of choosing the lesser of
two evils and saying how far the end can justify the means. Clearly
it cannot do so without limit. The Nazis by sacrificing a few
Jews and liberals in controlled experiments sought to save the lives
of thousands of Germans, but most people hold that they were ,
wrong in doing so, however valuable the results they hoped to
achieve' The utilitarian principle ‘breaks down if you push it too
far. .

On what basis are the interests of animals to be weighed against
those of man P Whole—hoggers on one side and the other feel no
difﬁculty. Anti-vivisectio‘nists say that no experiments ought to be
done on animals at all, but take this case: One method of assaying
narcotics consists in giving a minute dose to a rat who has learned
to run through a maze for.his dinner, and noting how far the
narcotic slows him down by comparison with his established handi-
cap. Can anybody call that cruel P He may, I Suppose, get a
slight headache the morning after, but he enables the narcotic to be
standardized and used for quelling great pain. At the other extreme
we have fanatics who say that mere animals must always be
sacriﬁced to human interests ; that any outrage, however horrible,
may be.perpetrated against an animal if the human race stands to
gain by it. But take this other extreme case. Veal used'to be made
by hanging up a calf by the hind feet, bleeding it slowly, and
maltreating it meanwhile to make it struggle. The extra white veal ,
might tempt an invalid’s appetite, but is this worth that P Quite
certainly not. Setting aside both extremes a moderate person has
tohdraw the line somewhere between them, and the. question is,
w ere .

We must distinguish clearly between killing and hurting. To
kill an animal is a far less serious matter than to kill a human being.
For one thing only a small percentage of animals can reach maturity
in any case, for otherwise there would soon be no room left in the
world ; hence we put unwanted puppies and kittens to death. There
is no harm in killing animals provided it be done painlesSly. For
instance, a method of testing milk for tubercular infection consists
in in]ecting a preparation into guinea—pigs, killing the animals pain-
lesslybefore the disease has reached a stage where it can cause any
suffermg, and then making a post—mortem examination. Nobody
can reasonably object to that. ’

IO

 

 

 




 

But when it comes to hurting, as distinct from killing, is there
any reason why hurting an animal shOuld be less objectionable than
hurting a man with the same intensity P We must not allow this
issue to be confused by the side-issue of social repercussions. If you
hurt a man, you also cause distress to his relatives and friends and
you may incapacitate him from carrying out his social duties ; these
considerations do not arise in the case of an animal and they have to
be taken into account, but they are irrelevant to the principle of our
question and must not be allowed to confuse it. Apart from these
social repercussions, is it more objectionable to hurt a man than an
animal P I should say deﬁnitely not, and if anybody thinks that it is
I would demolish him‘ by simply asking “ WhyP ” Is it on the
ground that animals have no souls,- that is to say no future life P
But if it is true that they have none, and no righting hereafter of
wrongs done to them here, there is all the more reason for making
happy the only life they are to have. Is it because animals are less
intelligent than human beings? If so children ought to be hurt

’in preference to adults, who are more intelligent than they. Is it

because a human personality is more valuable than that of an
animal P Its value is irrelevant to hurting, though not to killing ;
moreover human personality is ennobled by courageous bearing of
pain, and demeaned by shirking it on to others. Is it that animals
are less lovable than human beings P I kept pet rats as a boy and
lived among wild ones in the trenches, and found it as easy to love

them as I have found it difﬁcult to love Nero and Torquemada and ‘

Himmler, and some further east that I could mention, and for that
matter some nearer home as well. If I am asked “ What about your
own relations and friends P ” I reply that I might be tempted to
commit perjury to save one of them from the gallows, but that
would not make perjury right. I know of no reason except
prejudice for preferring that an animal rather than a random human
being should suffer pain, provided always that individual suffering
be distinguished from its social repercussiOns and from the risk of
death. ‘

Ethics : (3) suffering which is indispensible to the success of an

experiment.

When an experiment cannot be carried out without the inﬂic-
tion of suffering, in what cases can the end justify the means P To

' answer this question considerations which are quantitive and yet

cannot be measured have. to be balanced against one another. That
is a difﬁcult feat, and gives rise to differences of opinion between
humane and reasonable people, but it is what any jury has to do
when there is a conﬂict of evidence. The difﬁculty of the task is
a reason for devoting care and thought to it, but not for shirking
it or taking refuge in extreme views or short cuts.

II I

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

. Experiments calculated to cause pain are permitted in Britain
(subject, in theory at least, to the pain rule) for the advancement of
either (i) physiological, i.e., biological, knowledge, or knowledge
useful for (ii) saving or prolonging life or (iii) alleviating suffering.

(i) As regards fundamental or pure biology ; the mere satisfac—
tion of scientiﬁc curiosity cannot justify the inﬂiction of serious
suffering. One can never tell, of course, whether any given item
of, fundamental knowledge may turn out to be useful for the preven-
tion of pain; who would have thought that calculations on the
spectrum would eventually lead up to the use of tracer elements
in medicine P But there are heavy odds against such unforeseen
applications, which are exceptional. Only a foreseeable prospect
of some medical application of adequate utility can justify
eXperiments involving appreciable suffering. '

ﬂ (ii) The mere prolongation of bodily life is not regarded as of
over—riding importance in Christian ethics, nor by those who, in
war or otherwise, sacriﬁce their lives for an ideal. I do not see
how seriously painful experiments can be justiﬁed for such a
purpose, though it is a question of degree, of course. Personally I
would most certainly not wish my own and others’ lives to be
prolonged at the cost of such tortures as have been inﬂicted in
New—World‘experiments on shock, and I believe that any one who
thinks the thing out must come to the same conclusion.

‘ . (iii) When knowledge that will prevent a large amount of
suffering can be obtained by inﬂicting a relatively small amount,
then many will hold that the end may justify the means, though
again it is a question of degree. It must be remembered, however,
that the value of a research is always problematical till the work has
been done. At the very least the objective must be clear and fully
adequate, the probability of. success very high. Every precaution,
including economy in sampling, must be taken to reduce suffering
to an absolute minimum, and there must certainly be an upper
limit to What-1 may be done. It is difﬁcult to think of any case in
which it would be justiﬁable to suspend the pain rule, for instance.
The second Royal Commission, ﬁve out of whose seven members
were medical, laid down that rule absolutely and without

qualification.

Ethics: (4) the criterion.

If it be assumed (though the question is controversial) that
the inﬂiction of appreciable suffering may be justiﬁable in excep—
tionalcircumstances, when there is. almost a certainty of relieving
much greater suffering by means of the knowledge to be gained, a
criterion is needed for enabling the decision for or against to be

IZ

 

 




 

 

fairly taken in any particular case. I maintain that the criterion
required by the person who is to make the decision can be reached -
in the following way. He must begin by putting himself in imagina:
tion in the place of the animal. This can be done: every successful
animal—trainer has to do it ; animal—psychologists do it, some
deliberately like Bierens de Haan and some while pretending not
to, like the behaviourists. To deny the possibility is not scientiﬁc
but pedantic, and comes of dabbling in epistemology in a superﬁcial
way. Our experimenter or inspector must put himself, then, in
imagination in the place of the animal. He must ignore social
repercussions and the risk of death (which alone can justify him
in choosing a victim other than himself) and focus his attention on
the indiv1dual experience of pain or fear involved ; and he must now
ask himself “ Should I' myself be willing to endure that degree of
suffering in order to attain the object in View P .” If not, his decision
must be negative, and no experimenter has a right to do to an
animal what he would not wish done to himself, but for any social
repercussions or risk of death that might be involved. '

Strategy.

In View of the technical nature of the problems that arise the
last word in the regulation of experimental biology will always, in
actual fact, rest with scientists. The wise and realistic policy for
animal—protectionists is therefore to enlist the sympathy and
co-operation of the scientiﬁc world, and this is not difﬁcult.
Experience has shown that scientists, including medical men and
Vivisectors, will co—operate cordially with other animal-lovers if.
approached in a reasonable way, and many of them are deeply
concerned about the more painful sort of experiments, as well as
about the proper care of the animals. What is needed is the frank '
discussion of the very difﬁcult problems that arise, and that is
impossible in the cut and thrust of controversy and mutual
recrimination.

A Vivisector who has held a Home Ofﬁce licence for a good
many years recently wrote this to me with regard to certain experi-
ments: “ It seems to me that the animal welfare movement is a,
farce if no objection is made to experiments such as these. I did
not know of their existence till you put me on to them. If that is.
science, I should rather clean out a lavatory for a living than 'call"
myself a scientist—far rather, for that would be a useful and
honourable job.” I quote this private letter, written in the heat.
of the moment and not for publication, in order to show our anti—
Vivisectionist friends that it is possible for an experienced Vivisector,
a keen scientist, to feel as strongly as they do themselves about"
experiments which are cruel.

The behaviour of individuals is governed largely by the
standards prevailing in the circles to which they belong. The surest

I3

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

way of helping laboratory animals is therefore to cultivate inside the
scientiﬁc world a public opinion actively concerned with their
interests. The lead must be taken by persons with scientiﬁc qualiﬁ-
cations, but laymen can give a great deal of sympathetic support
if they approach scientists in a sane and knowledgeable way. Lay
participation in scientiﬁc activities has convincing precedents in the
Royal Institution, the British Assocation and the late British
Science Guild.

Since science is international it offers perhaps the most
promising channel for conveying British ideas of the right treatment
of animals, not only inside but also outside laboratories, to foreign
countries. Britain was notorious for cruelty a century and a half
ago, but has made such advances since then that most other nations
are very backward by comparison.

Improvements.

Britain has nolittle reason to be proud of the way she has
handled the problem of animal experimentation, but in this as in all
other human undertakings constant progress is possible and
desirable. A few possible improvements will be briefly suggested.

A large increase in the number of Home Ofﬁce inspectors is
desirable, not for police purposes but in order that their task of
promoting a uniform standard of humaneness may be efﬁciently
carried out. It is desirable that existing precedents should be con-
tinuously reviewed in relation to the pain rule and that zoologists,
veterinary surgeons and judicious animal-protectionists should be
more often consulted than they are. The less popular species are in
need of specially considerate attention, It is best that research

should be done in reasonably large institutions.

When the time for fresh legislation arrives the following change,
proposed by Dr. Vinter, could advantageously be made. According
tothis proposal experiments would be classiﬁed on the basis of their
degree of severity into some four“ or ﬁve categories, and licences,
instead of being accompanied by the existing exemption certiﬁcates,
would be granted conformably with these categories and graded in
obtainability, being allowed for painless experiments to anybody
having the necessary qualiﬁcations of skill, knowledge and personal
character, but allowed only quite exceptionally, after elaborate
enquiry and minute scrutiny, for experiments in the severest
category permitted. The classiﬁcation of procedures into these
categories would be under constant review.

Every encouragement is deserved by what is being done to
improve the training, status and selection of laboratory technicians

I4

 

 

 

~r~f




 

“r

 

and animal attendants, and the relative status of the latter might
well be raised by means of a ladder of promotion affording a good
career to entrants of the right type. Some system of awarding
medals for distinguished service in the animal room might be
worthy of consideration. The Home Ofﬁce inspectorate could
advantageously include one or more veterinary surgeons who could
advise on animal management.

' Similarly the movements for centralizing the breeding and
supply of laboratory animals and for raising the standards of accom-
modation and husbandry deserve support from animal—lovers.

EXpenditure on animal rooms is needed on a much more
generous scale than has hitherto prevailed. On this important point ,
many scientists agree ; it is for the lay governors of hospitals and
institutions to give better priority to schemes for improving
accommodation. But scientists might sometimes allow a better
share of their research grants to cages and similar equipment.

It is very desirable that scientiﬁc papers should specify,
with all necessary detail, the technique of any anaesthesia that may
be used ; this is particularly valuable for the ediﬁcation of foreign
readers and as a protection against misrepresentation at home. At
least one scientiﬁc journal took a ﬁne stand when, for reasons
which it notiﬁed to the author, it refused to publish reports of
barbarous foreign experiments that would not be permitted in this
country.

No one animal ought to be used for more than one experiment
that involves any appreciable hardship, unless this is indispensable
for obtaining a result which justiﬁes it; and statistical analysis
should be a compulsory study for research students.

Research is needed in the psychology of laboratory animals
with the object of ensuring mental comfort. There are also ﬁelds for
intensive study in the techniques of anaesthesia and euthanasia.

In the assay of therapeutic substances a choice of alternative
techniques is often available. Those are to be preferred which do
not involve discomfort or suffering, and hard work is needed in
devising humane techniques in cases in which none are available at
present.

To sum.up, it seems to me that anti—vivisectionists- took a wrong
turning after the passage of the Cruelty to Animals Act, 1876, and
ought now to forsake Will-o’-the-wisps and go back to their ‘

I5

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

ofr’iginal policy of co—operating with humane scientists in order to
obtain the maximum of practical protection for laboratory animals.
The success, considerable though imperfect, of the system of control
by the Home Ofﬁce points out the direction in which effective .
advantages can be obtained. Ethical abstractions, however lofty,
really do not help at all. If we are to befriend laboratory animals
sincerely we must deal with the world of reality as it actually is.

The protection and welfare of laboratory animals in this
country could be bettered ; in particular the work required of the
Home Ofﬁce has far outgrown the machinery for doing it. But in
most foreign countries the problem simply has not begun to be
effectively considered ; if British anti-vivisectionists have failed of
their avowed aim, their fellows overseas have almost nothing at all
to show for all their exuberance, It is to humane scientists, and
especially to humane biologists, that we must look for leadership
and effective action at'home and still more abroad, but laymen can
help if they will take the trouble to understand the difﬁcult parts of
the problem and approach the scientiﬁc world in an intelligent way.
It is primarily for the beneﬁt of the lay public that experimental
work is done ; the public ought, therefore, to try to appreciate what
that work involves, and cultivate an informed conscience about it.

Above all is it necessary to create an atmosphere of sanity and
objectiveness and intellectual honesty in which the very difﬁcult
ethical problems that arise can be discussed discriminately, without
the rhetoric and ex'citableness and invective that the subject;
has come to be associated with in everybody’s mind.

 

 

 




 

 

 

THE" UFAW HANDBOOK

OF THE

CARE AND MANAGEMENT OF
LABORATORY ANIMALS

Edited on behalf of UF AW by
Prof. ALASTAIR N. WORDEN, M.A., B.Sc., M.R.C.V.S., .A.R.I.C.
with a foreword by

Prof T. DALLING, M.A., M.R.C.V.S., FREE.

Bailliere, Tindall & Cox, 31:5. 6d. net.

 

This is an outstanding book, and one of which British medicine and
veterinary science may be very proud. From the foreword to the appendix
it is characterised by the richest sympathy with and understanding of
animals . . . all laboratory workers will be grateful for it—and all animals
should be grateful, too.

The Lancet.

This is by all odds the most comprehensive and thorough discussion of
the problems associated with maintaining colonies of experimental animals,
and. should be read, studied and used as a reference book by every
veterinarian who uses or supervises the use of experimental laboratory
animals. ,

Journal of the American Veterinary Medical Association.

* * * *

The Editor, Prof. Worden, should be proud of having produced such an
obviously authoritative work, and persuaded such a large number of people
to meet on a common ground of humanity and utility.

Journal of Animal Ecology.
:1: >1: >1: >1:

Two outstanding features of this book, both by Major C. W. Hume, are
a chapter on “Law and Practice : the Rights of. Laboratory Animals ”—a
brilliant and highly instructive survey of the present law governing
experiments on animals—and an appendix with the modest title, “ A
Conspectus of the Elements of Statistical Analysis.” This occupies 70 pages
and is .a masterpiece of expository condensation. It alone is. worth almost
the whole of the apparently high price.

British Medical Journal.

 




 

 

Printed by the
COURIER Co. Ltd.
Grove Hill Road,
Tunbridge Wells

 

 

 




