ITS FOLLIES AND CRUELTIES

AND ‘

THE WAY TO HGHT IT

_ . AN ADDRESS DELIVERED BY
ALTER R HADWEN ESQ.,

MD LRCP MRCS LSA 815a,")
‘ OF GLOUCESTER, . -

At the Annual Meeting of the British Union for the Abolition,
‘ of Vtcvzsectton, held at Carton Hall Westmmster, ». Y

July 13th 1905.

’ PmcE oiNE EENWEAGH. '

PUBLISHED BY. THE

BRITISH UNION FOR THE ABOLITION OF VIVISBCTION .5 ‘ ' ' f

, 3'2,- CHARING CROSS LONDON sw
Sec. . MISS B. E KIDD, to whom all orders may be sent

" See 'ﬁHbl'l’éva'tion-‘s on lasf‘hpégei A

I".

i

5

i»

I:

H

1"

. “r

, ‘?
I .

r
{I .

3

A.

.74;-

._o“-

 




 

 

 

 

 




THE FOLLIES AND CRUELTIES
OF VIVISECTION.

AN ADDRESS DELIVERED BY DR. HADVVEN,
At the Caxton Hall, lVeszfminster, fuly 13th, 1905.

RESOLUTION MOVED BY THE REV. F. B. MEYER, BA.

That this meeting condemns the practice of vivisection, and calls for
its prohibition by law on the following grounds: (I) That it is opposed to
morality, being inseparable from cruelty; (2) that it is opposed to true
science, being uncertain in its results; (3) that the dangerous growth of
the revolting system of serumtherapy, the enormous yearly increase in the
number of experiments, and the strong bias evinced by the Government
inspectors, give evidence of the futility Of restriction and the necessity for
drastic measures in dealing with a, growing evil.

Dr. HADWEN, in seconding the above resolution, said :—

Everyone will admit that the resolution before the meeting is
a comprehensive one—in short, that vivisection as practised tO-day
is cruel, immoral, unscientiﬁc, and Opposed to the best'methods
Of research. It plainly indicates also the policy of this Society,
which aimsat nothing short Of the total abolition of a cowardly
and un-Christian practice. We believe in no half-and-half measures
in dealing with it ; we believe vivisection to be a sin against the
moral law, and 'we decline to play with it by proposing futile
measures of restriction through which a coach and fOur could
drive with the greatest ease. We are conﬁdent that. it is far
easier and/more politic to ﬁght with a total abOlition Bill in our
hands than with one of restriction, because in the former case we
ﬁght on the side of principle—that the thing in itself is wrong;

 




 

(2)

whilst in prosecuting restriction we are sacriﬁcing principle, rob-
bing ourselves of our most powerful weapon of attack, and admit-
ting, in effect, that there may be something in viviseetion after all.
We are true and genuine anti-vivisectionists in every sense of the

word. (Applause)
The Morality of the Question.

Now there are three great objects that sway mankind—three
prime motives which impel men forward in the great struggle of
existence. ‘

I.—-The attainment of wealth or honour.

.—The attainment of health.

IQ

' 3.——The attainment of knowledge. .

I. believe I am correct in placing these several ambitions in this
order. No one can deny that the question of the almighty dollar
has more to do with every department of public and private life
than any other matter. Health is sought by all classes. Know-
ledge claims, perhaps, a smaller number of \‘otaries than those of
the former classes, but where she sits as goddess her rule is im-
perious in the extreme.

To attain these objects various methods are pursued, which
appeal to many subsidiary emotions, and the methods vary in
accordance with the idiosyncracies, habits, or training, of the
pursuer.

Now there is one path along which men travel towards the
attainment of all these three objects at one and the same time——
namely, that of vivisection. It is this fashionable and mysterious

pursuit which yields honour, emoluments and professional status ; I

it is urged to be the only scientiﬁc means of settling most problems
of health, and it is credited with being the source of practically
all medical knowledge. Vivisection, with its ramiﬁcations, has
become one of the greatest commercial enterprises of the day.
Now, I should be the last to assert that men who labour in the

ij'L-ursuit of knowledge calculated to produce brilliant results in

‘

 




 

(3)

lessening the. sum total of human disease should not be rewarded.
Such men are deserving of all the praise, honour, and reward we
can bestow upon them—always providing that the means by which
the alleged beneﬁts to health and knowledge are sought for are
consistent with the demands of justice, rectitude, and manly con-
duct. (Hear, hear.)

If I am asked, Is' the practice of Vivisection consistent with
these qualities? I answer emphatically N 0. (Cheers)

I do not ask at this stage, Have brilliant discoveries in methods
of treatment been obtained thereby? Are such brilliant discoveries,
judging by past experience, possible? or Is Vivisection consistent
with the laws of science? To all such questions I should still.
reply No. But it would be a cold, unreasoning soul that would
argue in favour of an object that was scientiﬁcally right, but
admitted to be morally wrong. I feel that a morally wrong pro-
cess can never be held to be justiﬁable, even though certain bene-
ﬁcial results might in all probability be attained thereby. (Ap-
plause. I

It appears to me that extremely cruel and naturally unjustiﬁable
actions perpetrated against innocent fellow-creatures incapable of
resistance can never be held to be necessary in order to discover
secrets for our own beneﬁt. It is simply a repetition of the Spanish
Inquisition applied to lower animals. To admit such a theory is
to admit God as an ogre compared with whom the fetish of the
African medicine man of long ages ago sinks into insigniﬁcance,
and it puts an estimate upon human necessities which is far
beyond their market value. (Hear, hear.)

The Plea of Restriction.

To say that you will render an act, which is immoral in itself,
a justiﬁable act, by ensuring, as far as possible, that that act be
painless, might have some claim upon the consideration of nervous
and accommodating humanitarians, were the grounds upon which
the specious plea is based absolutely reliable. Now, what is the

 




 

(4)

actual basis upon which such a result is proposed to be effected?
It is this :—-—

That whenever a cutting or other severe operation is "to be
performed, a Government inspector shall be present in order. to see
thatthe animal operated upon ,is fully under the inﬂuence of an
anaesthetic.

‘ Now there are various fallacies associated with this suggestion :
It has been stated by the recognised mouthpiece of the Vivisectors,
Mr. Stephen Paget, that the injection of- morphia beneath the skin
of the animal is absolutely necessary to keep the animal at rest.
If the administration of morphia‘be allowed, as it must be allowed
under any'circumstance, and, indeed, is allowed in the policy of the
Restrictionists, no Government inspector, however desirous of
carrying out his duties, could be absolutely certain that the sub-
ject was not under the inﬂuence of the narcotic rather than of an
anaesthetic. And should he happen to be an inspector who holds
the convenient theory that morphia itself is an anaesthetic, there
would be very little hope for the creature whose interest he was
supposed to safeguard.

Moreover, the absolute necessity, in consequence of an animal’s
physical conformation, that it should be ﬁrmly ﬁxed ‘tothe opera-
ting table so that it would be powerless to move, places the kindest-
hearted‘ of Government inspectors at a great disadvantage in seek-
ing to carry out his duties. The animal is partially narcotised by
morphia and fright (or the morphia may be omitted); it is ﬁxed
ﬁrmly to a carefully—devised board, probably gagged, and its face
covered by a mask ; the corneal reﬂexes under such conditions are
untrustworthy. In What way, then, is he to judge if the animal is
anaesthetised effectually or not? A mechanical anaesthetic spray
may prObably do-its work, but ever and anon must come the
warning not to push it too far or the animal will be lost.

The whole conditions are. necessarily different from the anaesthe-
tisation of the human subject. And if the inspector happen to ”be,
a.s..;h'e most likely would be, a friend to the vivisector and to vivi-

 

 

 

 




 

 

(5)

section, his conscience would be even more easily satisﬁed, and
the risk to the animal would be that much the greater.

Now I ask any one of my auditors to put himself in the
position of a dog under these circumstances, helplessly strapped
to a board, with a Government inspector specially appointed by
the Home ,Ofﬁce standing by, with the A.C.E. spray doing its
beneﬁcent work, with a hypodermic of morphia circulating through
the blood stream ; in fact, every precaution known to science and
to the State at your behest, and then tell me how you would like
it? Could you say in encouraging a system of this sort that you
are fulﬁlling the injunction, “ Do unto others as you would that
they should do unto you ” ? (Applause) -

And yet this system of inspectorship and anaesthetisation, which
upon the face of it is more or less a farce, is dangled before us by

certain misguided anti—vivisectionists as the magniﬁcent system
of compromise by which animals are to be saved under the specious
cry of “ half a loaf is better than none.” My answer is, for God’s
sake let me starve rather than give me bread of this description——
a diet that can only prolong my misery under the fallacious guise
of protecting me from it. (Loud cheers.)

The Only Effective Policy.

The long and the short of the matter is that in practical politics
you cannot separate painless from painful vivisection. The pursuit
of “painless” vivisection under the hollow cry of restriction is the
pursuit of a will-o’—the—wisp. The only method of dealing with
a gigantic evil of this description is by its total abolition. We say,
like the Japanese to the Russians, “ You are wholly in the wrong :
we have. proved you to be in the wrong, we have exposed your
tactics of oppression and aggression ; we have smashed your great
fortress of excuses ; we have sunk your ironclads of misrepresenta-
tion, defeated your armies of plausibility, and captured or rendered
useless your worn-out weapons of defence, and now we demand
your surrender. It is not for us to approach you with offers of
armistice or compromise, or to dilly—dally about quantities of
chloroform or fraudulent inspectorships, or limited inoculations;

 




 

(6)

we say, Clear out from the whole disputed territory, from the Korea
and the Manchuria of laboratory devilries, from the Port Arthur
of legalised wrong, and let us have liberty—absolute liberty for
those we ﬁght for, for the empire of helpless creaturehood for
which we plead. (Cheers.)

But I turn from the cruelty and immorality of the practice to
a consideration of its professed scientiﬁc exactitude, and will give
just one instance of its unreliability and uselessness.

Imperial Cancer Research Fund.

During the past week the public Press has published lengthy
reports of a meeting of the Imperial Cancer Research Fund held .
at Marlborough House under the presidency of H.R.H. the Prince
of Wales. The annual report, which was laid before the meeting
by Sir William Church, was strange reading. Apparently the past
year has been spent in the wholesale torture of mice. Now, I am
not going to start a society for the protection of vermin from
destruction, as I admit that there are conditions under which
vermin must be got rid of, but I not only object to torturing rabbits
in steel traps, but I also object to slowly dragging out the death
agony of mice by developing growths of cancer in their sensitive
frames. Those are not processes which are worthy of English-
men, and certainly not of men of science, and I can only regret that
this latter practice should have been unwittingly countenanced by
the heir to the British throne. (Hear, hear.)

Now I will quote a sample of the so-called scientiﬁc story which
was narrated at Marlborough House by Sir William Church. He
said : “ Professor von Leyden, of Berlin, was kind enough to send
us a live mouse which had a tumour which had been transplanted
through three generations in Berlin wild mice, together with twenty
Berlin wild mice. 47'3 per cent. of the transplantations made into
the twenty Berlin wild mice were successful, whilst the transplan-
tations into London wild mice gave only _I'4 per cent. of success,
and in London tame mice the proportion was even less.” So it is
quite clear that both the wild and tame mice of London are dead
against the dumping of German manufactures upon English soil.
(Laughter.) These scientists, knowing what was coming

 




 

(7’)

off, ought to have had Mr. Joseph Chamberlain in the
chair. (Renewed laughter.) At all events, the late Colo-
nial Secretary will now be able to say that the very [humblest
citizens of the greatest capital of the mightiest Empire in the
world are at least opposed to free trade in disease, and would
support—to a mouse, any protection Bill he chose to introduce.
This interesting refusal of English mice to take on German cancer
only shows that i
The best-laid schemes 0’ men on mice
Aft gang agley.

(Loud laughter and cheers.)

But the scientiﬁc free-traders were determined to overcome
what they callthese “initial difﬁculties.” They worked at the
English mice until they had forced them to take on German cancer,
just as King Charles forced the ship-tax on the people of England.

King Charles lost his head and crown. English scientists win
Royal smiles and honour and emoluments. But in the one case
it was men who suffered ; in the other it was only mice. (Hear,
hear)

And now for the discoveries. First: These eminent scientists
found out that, just as in human beings, cancer occurs spontane—
ously more among aged mice than it does in young ones. That is
interesting, but I don’t know that the knowledge is of any particu-
lar value. Secondly : They found that when they pumped cancer
into the bodies of mice the young ones took it on rather better than
their older friends. What the value of that information is I cannot
say ; it takes an expert to ﬁnd that out. Thirdly : “ The power of
continuous cell multiplication was demonstrated by the fact that
a single mouse tumour produced an amount of tissue equal to
more than a thousand mice,” but as they admit this fact of cell
multiplication had been recognised long, long ago, I do not know
why on earth they wanted to torture mice to discover it over again.
.Fourthly : They put sound mice with diseased mice and they found
the sound ones did not take cancer ; therefore, cancer was not in—
fectious. This was considered so important that H.R.H. repeated
the fact in his speech. I thought we had had thousands of human
beings living with cancer patients, for ages past, and accordingly
knew all about this ; but they don’t say whether they were German

 




(8)

mice or English mice, because, as already seen, the English mice
might refuse to be exploited on behalf of Germans. Fifthly : There
came the serum business. They put cancer cells into normal sera,
and into immunised sera, and they couldn’t come to any conclusion
about it.

And yet with all this persiﬂage recorded in the most unsatis-
factory report that I ever had the misfortune to read, Sir William
Church has the temerity to talk about “ real progress.” I want to
know where the progress is. I have searched carefully, but I have
failed to ﬁnd it, in spite of all the torture perpetrated upon these
poor little victims, and in spite of four years of cruel vivisection
experiments, and the expenditure of thousands of pounds. Not
one single solid fact has been added to scientiﬁc knowledge which
can aid toward the alleviation or cure of the disease, and the Prince
of Wales closed his speech by admitting that cancer “ still remains
one of the greatest problems of human life.” At all events this i
knocks on the head the loudly-advertised cancer serum of M. ‘
Doyen, another vivisectionist, who informed the world with all the
conﬁdence bred of ignorance, that he had discovered a “perfect
cure.” Is it not time some other method of research was adopted P
(Prolonged applause.) ;

 

 

Suggested Method of Cancer Research.

The scientists at Marlborough House declared their opinion that
cancer is not associated with diet, climate, or mode‘of life. In
answer to this reckless statement from the bacteriological armchair
one may quote the classical work of Mr. Alfred Haviland,
M.R.C.S., who has proved in his “ Geographical Distribution of
Disease in Great Britain,” by means of the statistics of the Regis-
trar—General, that cancer ﬂourishes in low-lying and water-logged
districts, and that it can hardly gain a footing in land at high
levels, on dry and gravelly, well-drained soils, where God’s pure
air reigns supreme. A hard concrete fact of this description is
better than all the theoretical verbiage associated with the cruelties
of poisoned mice. Among savage races farthest removed from
civilisation, cancer is practically unknown, whereas in China and ]
some of the thickly-populated parts of the United States of America
it is of frequent occurrence. And in answer to Sir Wm. Church l

 

 

 




 

(9)

and his Imperial Cancer Research Fund, I can only say, as one
who has largely studied the question of cancer for some years from
the c0mm0n~sense standpoint of human observation, that the
denser the population, the more low-lying the district, the more
artiﬁcial the environment, and the weaker the vital resisting
powers of the individual constitution, the more cancer appears to
ﬂourish ; and I believe that by means of right living, healthy condi-
tions, proper drainage, purer air, and suppression of over-crowding
——in fact, every means whereby the vital resisting powers of the
system can be increased—lies the germ for future researches in the
prevention, and perhaps cure, of this terrible disease. (Cheers)

I feel that we thorough—going Anti-Vivisectionists, who decline
to be parties to an absurd Parliamentary Bill (which offers to grant
six inoculations to each licensee with the puerile proviso that if
the speechless animal begins to suffer it is to be destroyed), are
doing a great work far beyond that of merely opposing vivisection,
for we are setting our faces against a wholly wrong system of
medical treatment and are pointing to sounder, safer, and more
scientiﬁc methods of research. A success in the laboratory is
repeatedly a failure in practical life.

The System of Bacteriology.

we are being frightened to death by microbes. It is germs,
germs, germs everywhere. I see one doctor lately says we must
give up shaking hands because there are 80,000 germs in every
palm. (Laughter.) Kissing has been tabooed long ago on simi-
lar grounds, although I have not heard this pleasant osculatory
practice has in any way diminished. (Continued laughter.) There
are germs above us, around us, within us, in everything we eat and
almost everything we drink. It is a wonder that any of us are
alive at all. One scientist has lately warned us most solemnly
that ﬂeas are very dangerous because they might give us the
plague. _ Well, I always did try to avoid ﬂeas, and I suppose I
ought to be very thankful that I have ever tried to keep them at a
respectful distance. (Loud laughter.)

Every question to-day is to be settled by a microbe.

Now I do notsav one word against the science of bacteriology.
It has its place, and that place is a valuable one, though I am

 




 

 

(Io)

bound to confess its value has been sadly overrated ; but when it
makes claims it cannot prove, and vaunts promises and prophecies
it never fulﬁls, I begin to lose faith in it as a medical guide. Scien-
tists lay down as an axiom of which they challenge contradiction,
that practically all the acute speciﬁc diseases owe their origin to a
speciﬁc microbe, and yet an undoubted speciﬁc microbe has never
yet been discovered as the unerring cause of a single one of them.
The whole of the system of serum—therapy and anti-toxin, with its
cruelty to animals practised for the production of these ﬁlthy pre-
parations, is based upon a theory which has never been proved,
either‘by statistics“ or demonstration. (Cheers)

Now I am not going to give you statistics to-day, for I quite
agree there is nothing so fallacious as statistics except it be facts,
but I want to get behind this bacteriological craze and by one solid
argument to measure its value for the whole host of diseases it
presumes to cater for. I will take the bacteriologist on his oWn
ground and use his own argument. We will suppose for argu—
ment’s sake that the various diseases owe their origin to a speciﬁc
germ. Now, every bacteriologist asserts that healthy blood is the
most powerful germicide we possess. No germ can live in healthy
blood. Inside or outside the body healthy blood is equally fatal
to the germs. Then, I say, by all means let us do everything we
can to get healthy blood. When a child’s blood is already inﬂamed
by the absorption of the morbid products of diphtheria, are you
going to improve its vital resisting powers by polluting the life-
stream stillfurther with the poisoned blood serum of a horse? A
mother points with pride to a child who got well from diphtheria
after an injection of anti-toxin; just as the savage praises his
wooden fetish when his tribe wins in the battle. If the baby die or
the battle is lost, the anti-toxin in the one case and the fetish in
the other was not resorted to soon enough—so says the medicine
man. And between the cure and the failure there are many degrees
of possible excuses, but whatever the degree, “ quackery,” as
Cobbett says, “has always one shuffle left.” (Applause)

They tell us plague is caused by rats, and when rats have dis-
appeared the plague has disappeared too. That was no doubt the
case when the conditions under which rats usually exist were no
longer present. Dr. Creighton, in his recent investigations into
the plague in India, has shown that the insanitary conditions

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

( .1‘1 )

which breed the rats are the conditions which breed the plague,
and yet an army of so-called scientists are still poisoning the people
with a ﬁlthy decoction of plague instead of spending their time and
brains and money in sweeping away the foul conditions which exist
throughout the plague area. (Hear, hear.)

What did Koch himself say before the British Congress on
Tuberculosis: “ It is the overcrowded dwellings of the poor that
we have to regard as the real breeding-places of tuberculosis ; it is
out of them that the disease always crops up anew, and it, is to the
abolition of these conditions that we must ﬁrst and foremost
direct our attention if we wish to attack the evil at its root, and to
wage war against it with effective weapons.” (Cheers)

I might deal with typhoid fever, typhus, cholera, malaria, and
many other diseases, all of which I should argue about from the
same standpoint did time permit, but I cannot close this part of
my sUbject without quoting a pregnant sentence fro-m a leading
article in the Times, when Sir Ernest Cassel gave his splendid gift
for a sanatorium to the King. The Times said : “ When medical
science has said its last word, the best hope for the cure of disease
lies simply in the strengthening by rational modes of living the
resisting power of the human-organism.” Those are words I
would have written in letters of gold. (Loud applause.)

Serum=Therapy Run Mad.

What a contrast to such sound, philosophic and truly scientiﬁc
reasoning are the awful vagaries of Professor Metchnikoff, who
has had the audacity to put a syphilitic serum upon the market ob-
tained by artiﬁcially diseasing monkeys, and proposes to inoculate
all the soldiers and sailors and fallen women in France with it, and
to poison the blood of all lads when they commence school life.
His serum to arrest the advance of old age is a contrast in comi—
cality about which he appears to be really serious. But, perhaps,
the strangest attempt to advertise this mad serum-therapy craze
consists in the manufacture of a serum to cure fatigue. It is ob-
tained by fatiguing a poor dog on a sort of treadmill until it drops
down wearied and nearly dead, and then expressing juice from its
muscles, which is. forthwith, injected into the veins of a horse,
whose blood is ﬁnally drawn off to be afterwards pumped into

 




 

(12)

human beings under the name of anti-toxin, so as to invigorate
them when they are tired out! Sancho Panza, when he threw
himself wearied upon the ground, cried, “ God bless the man who
ﬁrst invented sleep,” and I wonder which remedy appeals the more
to common sense, that of simple-minded Sancho Panza or the cruel,
absurd, ﬁlthy, and complicated process of the modern bacterio-
logist. (Laughter and cheers.)

But I will .take up your time no longer. I have sought to
expose a great fallacy and to point to a high ideal. I know the
battle we have to ﬁght is a hard one, with prestige, tradition,
emolument, and Royal favour all against us, but the cause is
sacred. If results are sometimes disappointing, and our hearts
grow sad at the delay, it must be ours to remember that all re-
formers have passed through similar experiences, but victory has
crowned their efforts at the last. As Whittier says :~-—

With something of the seer
Must the moral pioneer
From the future borrow,
Fill his ﬁelds with sheaves of grain,
And on midnight’s sky of rain
Paint the golden. morrow.

V’Ve ask you to help us. VVe ask you to join our whole—hearted
Society, founded by our revered Miss Frances Power Cobbe in her
declining years, when another Society she had founded twenty
years before had departed from the policy she had fought for in the
strenuous days of the past. It is her motto which should actuate
us all, namely, that she had formed a determination long years
before that she would never lay her head upon her pillow at night
without having done something, however small, toward the eman~
cipation of those helpless creatures which lay so near her own
heart. It is her voice which speaks to us still, and it
is her great example which speeds us on. We shall not win
at once, but we shall win. Of that I am conﬁdent, for the God of
Victory is ours. And though the way be longand the battle
severe, we must ever remember :-——

Slowly moves the rock of ages,
Slowly grows the forest king,

Slowly to perfection cometh
Every great and glorious thing.

(Loud and prolonged applause.)

 




,m. .15 {$1}. L.

 

 




A FEW OF THE PUBLICATIONS

OF THE

BRITISH UNION FOR ABOLITION
0F ‘5..."i-7I'5‘__"y?ISECTICN " ~

 

 

‘ '5IV_V_IZ'Orders, wzth Cash to be sent to MISS KIDD 32, CHARING CROSS’ 5 VV- I I

a ‘ Single Per

3C0pzes , doz. ' "

I VlFrances Power Cobbe BY the Rev I Verschoyle 12d 1/3 I , ‘ A.

I. I The Modern Rack Collectxons of Essays By

F P Cobbe wit. '
. nght In Dark Places (Wlth Illustratlons )
F P Cobbe

5V1v1sectlon Explamed By F P Cobbe ' .1»-
” Q‘Ways and Means tQ Stop Vlvlsectlon By E. P

Cobbe

"-373 ifj The Slgmﬁcance of V1v13ectzon By F P Cobbe . 4»
, ,; A Med1ca1 Vlew of the VIVISectlon Question By ..

Dr W R Hadwen

. PIfV1v1sect10n Its F ollles anPI Crueltles BY Dr. 5

W R. HadWen , , ,

A ‘PJ'PThe Ant1 Toxm Treatment of D1phther1a By Dr A

W R. Hadwen

NIPP'CSome Recent V1V15ectlon Practlces 1n Lngllshj:._;

Laboratones By Dr. W R. Hadwen

I: ”-1-.TV1vzsect1on at the Brown Instxtute By Dr W '--'

R Hadwen -"

I P Selectmns from vadence of Royal Commlsswn

The Bebop of Durham 0n V1v18ect10n

~ ’, j‘ I];IgVIVISectlon or Restr1ct1on P ' 7 7 _ 3.4".
" V‘j‘f‘f'i'if‘i‘Dr. Koch and the Cattle Plague
. A'OﬂiCIal Shufﬂmgs on V1V1sectlon ' " ”

' ]l Klllmg and Torturmg

"The Plague and the lactenologlsts Q 35,7 V .

. ‘ ” fWhy We Object to the Act of- 1876
l 5- ' 'What V1VISectlon Really IS ._v.. ' ' 5.
~. I _, , .Entenc and Typhmd 1n South Afnca
, “How Plague Scares are Manufactured
x g-The Indlan Plague Comrmssmn

Chronology of the Antl-Vlmsectlon Movement for!" 9—H-
. 25 years " '

Why We Have Founded the Bntlsh Unlon _
‘; -- . yiThe Flrst Annual Report of the Indlan Pasteur,

Instltute h, 4. ,
v Why We Object to a Restnctlon B111 By M153" " "
B E Kldd .. ,_

' " POSTER (large)

I ihgvManghng Done Here Smorle Coples 6d ,perdoz 3/6 per 100 26s.?» ‘ I

' . '__ The [Hf/01’1” Press, 1 6'2, Took Q Court Landau E C

 




