‘ 5'1. . ._ree an t' Q ,- . _ . \L ‘7 ‘ j g. —, —l-rv,_’,;-37>—'-‘~' ‘1“r<'\--vI-_ xvi. .
rial, . , 1.x]. ~,1o.ted E110.“ . . , , . ‘
32:..2372161humamtaiz‘ian, justl a Sh 1118“)?“ and “They cannot recompense you, but ye? sh\>\
5p?- ;,inn0‘;egzr(;ng~s and‘ ’ that the i be recompensed in the resurrection of the Justiigl
,‘i'l‘ . ‘ . 3 le DIGSS ' .f ' h . B' . i 1
if u l, ,r . - 1 "- bble.
' . .- the black“; Chaptewi-n \ F th t -1
_, ._ 7 “ or us ey 01

For us they. die.” OVER

An Appeal

FROM THE HORSES
TO THE SUMMER VISITORS.

DEAR FRIENDS

While driving for pleasure and enjoying the beautiful scenery, we
pray you to consider us, without whom this enjoyment would not be pos—l
sible. ‘

There is very much that you can do to protect us, your willing ser-
vants, from unnecessary suffering and permanent injury.

It is true that our owners must keep us through the year, and we are
willing to work hard and earn as much as we can for them during the
short season that you are here, but we appeal to you to try to create a
public sentiment ”that will protect us from abuse while we are doing our
best to minister to your pleasure. ‘ '

I f you would refuse to ride in any conveyance that is overloaded, or
behind those ‘of us who have had the misfortune to become lame, and if
you would'encourage our drivers to consider us, and hot urge them to
whip us or drive too fast, a very different state of things would soon
exist. ‘ 4

Please use your inﬂuence to prevent our being driven again when
we have already done a hard day’s work.»

Fast driving, and too many hours of work, injure us more in one
day than weeks of hard work with kind management.

Do not overload Our buckboards or other carriages; it is often on ac—
count of your want of thought and not from the fault of the drivers that
we are overloaded. .

The drivers naturally wish to please those who (hire them, and not
all have the courage to do what they know to be right. .

It will help us greatly if, when we come to steep hills with a heavy
load, some of you will lighten our task by walking.

Stopping a few moments on the way at the top of a hill to enjoy the
scenery will often give us a much needed rest.

Well-oiled axles will save much of our strength.

Do not encourage drivers to race with each other.

The Horse’s Appeal.

Do not hitch us to face the sun or wind. WE
suffer in such ways same as YOU would. And please
keep us in the shade when possible, at home or
away, and give us grass often. Nature’s true, best
remedy for tired, sick or hard-worked horses. It
cures and refreshes us and was MADE for us.

 




 

Remember that we need and enjoy a drink of fresh water very often.

Before riding us, please see that our saddles ﬁt well, and that our
backs are not sore, and teach your young sons and daughters that there is
a limit to the endurance of a horse; that the constant fast riding or driv-
ing which is a delight to them often mean great suffering to us.

When hiring your horses, please discourage the barbarons practice
of docking, by giving the preference to those Of us who have not been
mutilated and doomed to life long suffering from ﬂies and other insects.

We also appeal to our owners.

If any of you think that you must use the instrument of torture
called the “overcheck rein,” do kindly lessen our sufferings by loosening
it while we stand waiting for you.

We are glad to learn that it is becoming unfashionable, and that
Some of our ﬁnest horses no longer wear it.

We can do more work and. go further and faster with our heads free.

What a comfort it would be if we could get rid of those blinders
which dazzle and injure our eyes, and often cause us to stumble!

We are told that in some European countries they are never used.

When you ﬁnd that we do not eat well, please examine our teeth and
see if they have become long or sharp and are lacerating our mouths.
They may need ﬁling down, which a veterinary surgeon can do In a few
minutes.

Do not forget that to drive us fast down hill is dangerous, besides
often 1njuring our feet and knees.

Please remember that there are days when we do not feel well, there—
fore do not expect us always to go as fast as you would like.

Constantly urging us when we are already doing our best, and snap—
ping the whip when we are standing still is irritating to us and does no
good.

If there is in this place an Agent of the Society for the “Prevention
of Cruelty to Animals,” we beg that you will report to him any case of
cruelty, and that you will in every way encourage and aid all those
friends of ours who sustain societies for our protection.

You can obtain humane literature to distribute by writing to GEO. T.
ANGELL., 19 MILK STREET, BOSTON, MAss., and to M. L. HALL, I26
RIDGE STREET, PROVIDENCE, R. I.

Hoping that you will consider our appeal,

Respectfully submitted by your friends,
THE HORSES.

 

Price 30 cents. per hundred copies, postage paid. Address: M. L. Hall, 126 Ridge
Street, Providence, R. I.

 




