AN UNSOIENTIFIC VIEW
OF VIVISECTION.

BY LADY PAGET.

 

 

(Reprinted from the NATIONAL REVIEW, September, 1891.)

IT was about twenty years ago that I ﬁrst heard the word
“ Vivisection.” The simple explanation of this is that in
the countries in which I had lived till then there had been a
very small proportion of English people. It was While
struggling to found, together with Mr. Gallenga, the well-
known T imes correspondent, a society for prevention of
cruelty to animals in Rome that I ﬁrst came upon the word.
It hardly gave me a shock, for at ﬁrst it was only a word to me:
the untutored female mind is slow to grasp the real meaning
of such a thing as Vivisection. I began to inquire ; and the
confused feeling of a wrong done soon gave way to grief and
horror, though I by no means knew the worst. My oppor-
tunities for gaining information in Rome were meagre. In
my wish to procure it I asked questions indiscriminately
from all those who seemed to me likely to know anything
about it, t.e.——scientiﬁc men. The natural result was that
I came to the conclusion that Vivisection was a horrible
necessity. “ For the advancement of science ”—“ for the
beneﬁt of human beings,” were the phrases constantly dinned
into my ears. I often reﬂected that this world was a very
imperfect one if human beings had to depend for their health
upon the tortures of innocent fellow-creatures ; and I tried
to lull my sore heart to sleep by doing what I could to
protect the poor animals which were tortured unscientiﬁcally,
through carelessness, ignorance, or brutality. Every now

 




 

2

and then I had some bad twinges, eSpecially while Professor
Schiff was raising hecatombs of mangled dogs in Florence ;
but when I tried to argue out the matter with my learned
friends I was always made to feel not only ridiculous and
stupid, but actually wicked, for daring to set, not the lives,
but the tortures, of thousand of animals, into the balance
against the life, or even the deliverance from pain, of one
human being. I was rudely awakened from this compara-
tively happy state by making the acquaintance of Miss
Power Cobbe. She, for the ﬁrst time, put the thing
practically and clearly before me, and I felt convinced that
so good and clever a woman could only speak thus after
the most earnest, searching, and conscientious study. I
am, however, not a German by birth for nothing; and I

never can feel contented unless I get to the very bottom of

the subject that engrosses me. I had to wade through such
horrors that I was sometimes paralysed for hours afterwards
actually not daring to think. From that time till now
there have been weeks and months in my life nay : years—~—
darkened and saddened by the intolerable thought of
indescribable tortures wilfully inﬂicted upon sentient beings
all over the civilised world. At night their wails have been
in my ears ; their mangled forms, pinioned to the vivisecting
table, before my eyes. Nor is this an exaggerated account
of what thousands of men and women who have inquired into
this subject feel. On the contrary, I think there are many
who suffer a great deal more, because they are not forcibly
turned away from it by the mass of various businesses and
multitude of social duties which fall to my lot. Nobody, I
think, will contradict me when I say that, even putting the
agonies of numberless animals on one side, vivisection adds,
in Cardinal Manning’s words, “ no small item to the sum of

 

 

misery on earth.”
This being the case, one naturally asks oneself what good

the world gets by vivisection, and, if any, whether it out—
weighs the amount of misery. I searched in vain for a single,
certain, and useful result of vivisection. Once or twice I
thought that unanswerable proof of such a result had been

 

 




 

8

given me, for, not being a “scientist” I do not know
sufficient about these things to detect the fallacy at once.
Upon making inquiries and reading the passages quoted, I
found invariably that “the unanswerable proof” was a
delusion. The other day only, I was talking on the subject
to a very able, intelligent, and moderate Austrian “ scientist ; ”
and he said, “How can you ignore the discoveries of your
own Sir Charles Bell, on the nervous system? He made
them entirely by vivisection ; it would have been impossible
to ﬁnd out which were the motor, the sensitive, and the
mixed nerves, unless you cut them on a living animal.”
Upon inquiry, this is what I ﬁnd in Sir Charles Bell’s
book :——“In concluding these papers I hope I may be
permitted to offer a few words in favour of anatomy as
better adapted for discovery than experiment. Anatomy is
already looked upon with prejudice by the thoughtless and
ignorant; let not its professors unnecessarily incur the
censures of the humane. Earperiments have never been the
means of discovery ; and a survey of what has been attempted,
in late years, in physiology, will prove that the opening of
living animals has done more to perpetuate error than to
conﬁrm just views taken from the study of anatomy and
natural motions. In a foreign review of my former papers,
the results have been considered as further proof in favour
of experiments. They are, on the contrary, deductions from
anatomy; and I have had recourse to experiments, not to
form my own opinions, but to impress them on others. It
must be my apology that my utmost efforts of persuasion
were lost, while I urged my statements on grounds of
anatomy alone. For my own part, I cannot believe that
Providence should intend that the secrets of nature are to be
discovered by the means of cruelty; and I am sure that
those who are guilty of protracted cruelties do not possess
minds capable of appreciating the laws of nature.”——(Ne9ivons
System, p. 217, Nerves of the Orbit.) Every word of those
sentences is full of meaning. Take, for example, the last.
Ignorant people, like myself, are often startled (though we
dare not always say so) by the haziness and the delusions of

 




 

4

the scientiﬁc mind about the laws of nature which govern
the very animals they dissect nerve from nerve, and ﬁbre
from ﬁbre.

Mrs. Brightwen, author of the pretty book Wild Nurture
Wonby Kindness, many clodhoppers, and probably every Red
Indian, could give us more true and useful information as to
how to treat a sick animal than those who daily singe, burn,
bake, freeze, cut, tear, and mangle helpless creatures. In
what way is the world better for it? Do these sickening
processes make the great doctor ‘2 Or is it the human
sympathy, the unerring intuition, the deep insight, the quick
appreciation, not only of the patient’s physical, but also his
mental state ‘2 All these aided by patient, conscientious
study of nature, make the physician as he ought to be—as
Hippocrates describes him—the man we receive into our
families as trusted friend and honoured guest; into whose
hands we give with conﬁdence the lives of our best and
dearest, and who would be as incapable of a rough word as
of a cruel action. But such, alas! are not the men who
pass out of the physiological laboratory into the hospitals, if
I am to believe the stories told me by those who Visit them
often and know what goes on in them. I wonder no more
at the terror of the poor when the dreaded place is named,
for they are not looked upon as patients to be cured, but as
material to be experimentalised upon. “ The material ” is
the accepted word for patients in many hospitals abroad. (I
cannot speak of England in this respect, as I have no experi-
ence.) I should like to tell one story as illustration. A
friend of mine sent his keeper’s little daughter to the hospital.
It became necessary to insert a cannula into her throat, which
the professor did Without giving her much pain. After this,
however, he returned once or twice a day, with a troop of
students, whom he allowed to pull out and insert the cannula
at their pleasure. The poor child entreated with tears the
professor to do it himself; but he said, “ The students must
learn! ” The child’s father, who could not bear to see his
daughter’s sufferings, asked my friend to write to the
professor begging him to perform the slight operation himself

 




 

—‘:= 4-44#

 

5

for the days that it was necessary. My friend did so,
asking at the same time how much he would take to do this.
The answer was “ A fortune.”

When one hears and sees things like these one must agree
with the late Sir William Fergusson, who told a lady (in
whose handwriting I have it) that “the permission to
practice vivisection would tend to rear a nation of young
devils.” . He told the same lady that vivisection was useless,
that he bitterly regretted ever having practised it, and that
it ought to be put down by Act of Parliament.

This surely is good authority; but even we unscientiﬁc
people might come to very nearly the same conclusion by
using our common-sense a little more than we often do.
Vivisectors have sacriﬁced thousands and tens of thousands
of living creatures to their thirst of knowledge, till one
would think that every question science could ask has been
answered by their poor bodies long ago. The fact that
hundreds and thousands more are martyred every day
brings me to the conclusion that there are no really valuable
results. This conclusion is strengthened by the remark,
which any unbiassed observer can make, that vivisectors are
not often as renowned for their happy hand in curing as
they are for their scientiﬁc researches ; and I doubt whether
any of them will be remembered with gratitude by later
generations like Hahnemann, or the peasant Priessnitz, the
inventor of the water cure, or whether they could show as
long a list of patients given up as lost and saved as men
like Father Kneipp can produce to anybody who cares
to inquire. I hear these men often called quacks, and
other hard names, and the public abused for believing
in them; but the truth is that the unscientiﬁc mind can
grasp the fact of a wonderful cure, while theories, clever
though they may be, leave it comparatively cold. One
important symptom, however, is the awakening of a large
section of the more intelligent public to the discovery that,
if vivisection has done no good, it has done a great deal of
harm, and if all the homoeopaths, hydropaths, Matteists,
Kneippists, hygienists, etc., etc., together had made one

 




 

6

quarter—nay, one tenth—of the victims who had succumbed
to the Koch and Pasteur theories, they would not only have
been ridiculed and vituperated, but arraigned as murderers
before the orthodox. I may be prejudiced : but I completely
fail to see why the fact of inoculating dogs with rabid virus,
and injecting tuberculous matter into guinea-pigs, should
change the case. Every now and then an unworthy
suspicion ﬂashes across one’s mind that “this hideous
thing” (as an eloquent preacher calls it) is not practised so
much for the good of mankind as for the satisfaction of a
few who like to see their knowledge extolled in boOks and
scientiﬁc reviews and papers. This belief is fostered more
than ever by the newspapers, which every day publish some
wonderful new discovery, whether it be goat’s blood injected
into a tuberculous patient, or a live dog’s bone grown into a
boy’s leg—inventions which are hardly a nine-days~ wonder
before they sink for ever into Lethe’s stream.

Let us, however, admit that “ scientists” could show
some good results of vivisection: could the assuaging of a
pain, or even the saving of a life, for one instant outweigh
the terrible harm done to the souls of the men who practise
it—a harm which will include wider and ever wider circles
as the abuse increases? Cardinal Manning says that the
most brilliant discovery of physiology would be but a poor
compensation for the hardness of heart and deadness of
conscience which such men must acquire. \Ve ought,
therefore, unless the souls of our fellow creatures are
indifferent to us, to oppose vivisection on religious motives.
I will quote a page from an article by the late Anna
Kingsford, M.D., Paris, published after her death. After
relating some of the horrors perpetrated by sorcerers in
the Middle Ages, she writes: “An almost exact parallel to
the modern vivisector in motives, in method, and in character,
is presented by the portrait thus preserved to us of the
mediz‘eval devil-conjuror. In it he recognises the delusion
(whose enunciation in medical language is so unhappily
familiar to us) that by means of vicarious sacriﬁces, divinations
in living bodies, and rites consisting of torture scientiﬁcally




7

inﬂicted and prolonged, the secrets of life and of power over
nature are obtainable. But the spiritual malady which rages
in the soul of the man who can be guilty of the deeds of the
vivisector is in itself sufﬁcient to render him incapable of
acquiring the highest and best knowledge. Like the sorcerer,
he ﬁnds it easier to propagate and multiply disease than to
discover the secret of health. Seeking for the germs of life
he invents only new methods of death, and pays with his
soul the price for these poor gains. Like the sorcerer, he
misunderstands alike the terms and the method of knowledge,
and involuntarily sacriﬁces his humanity in order to acquire
the eminence of a ﬁend. But perhaps the most signiﬁcant
of all the points of resemblance between the sorcerer and
the vivisector, is in the distinctive and exclusive solicitude
for the mere Body manifested by both. To secure advantages
of a physical and material nature merely; to discover some
eﬂ‘ectual means of self-preservation in the ﬂesh, to increase
its pleasures, to assuage its self-induced diseases, to minister
to its sensual comforts,———no matter at what cost of vicarious
pain and misery to innocent men and animals,-——these are
the objects, exclus-irely, of the mere sorcerer, of the mere
vivisector. His aims are bounded by the earthly and the
sensual : he neither cares nor seeks for any knowledge
unconnected with these.”

Dr. Anna Kingsford was a very clever woman; but these
lines appear to me almost akin to inspiration.

There is another aSpect of vivisection, which, in my
estimation, would be quite sufﬁcient to make, it a thing
forbidden and accursed; and that is the frightful, the
unspeakable suffering inﬂicted upon sentient beings. Why
should man have the right to torture creatures with affections:
memory, instincts, far above those of babes or idiots ‘2 The
only answer I can ﬁnd is this : It is because they are dumb
—-they cannot speak to defend themselves, and, what is more
important, to accuse their torturers. If they could speak
there would soon be an end of vivisection, just as a French
writer says there would have been an end to the guillotining
during the Revolution if only half a dozen people had

 




 

8

screamed and writhed like Madame Dubarry. But the
French nobles laid their heads on the block in pride and
silence, and the butchery went on. The dog that is brought
into the laboratory looks with mute, appealing eyes; he
licks the cruel hand ready to tie and mangle him ; and tries
little endearing tricks, such as sitting up or giving a paw, to
win the heart of the ﬁend in human shape into whose power
he has fallen. I have purposely abstained from quoting any
harrowing details in this little paper. Those who have the
courage and generosity to become conscientious inquirers
into this dark blot on our civilisation need only write for
information to the Society for the Protection of Animals
from Vivisection, 20, Victoria Street, Westminster, London,
and all their questions, as well as all their scruples, will be
answered. But I beg particularly to say that I do not draw
upon my imagination for my statements. They are culled
from the books of the physiologists themselves, and I can
give chapter and verse for them.

It is because the animals are dumb and cannot cry out
their wrongs in the market place that the great public is so
indifferent. There is nothing to begained by helping them—
no money, praise, glory, or honour. The animals cannot
reproach us: they cannot tell the world that we are too
cowardly, ungenerous, indifferent, indolent, and heartless to
protect them. On the other hand, those who stand up for
them are ridiculed and denounced : they are told that they
care nothing for science, or are pitied as sentimental fools.
For my own humble self, I do not care much for these
reproaches. A cause which has been upheld by such men as
Lord Shaftesbury, Browning, Lord Mount Temple, Cardinal
Manning, the Lord Chief Justice, Lord Tennyson, Ruskin, and
many men scarcely less illustrious or revered, cannot be a bad
cause or a delusion. Nor is the roll of names of those abroad
who hold the same belief a despicable one: they are names
distinguished by rank and intellect, though, may be, their
number is less than one could wish or expect. But England
has always been in the van of every enterprise of mercy and
humanity, and Englishmen are looked upon abroad as the

 




 

 

 

 

 

9

protectors of the weak and the oppressed. England’s
greatest poet says :

“ Would’st thou draw near the nature of the Gods ‘2
Draw near them, then, in being merciful.
Sweet mercy is nobility’s true badge.”

And is this badge to be defaced by so hideous a blemish ‘2
I am a woman, and it is to women that I would appeal.
Let England’s daughters set the high example, and unite in
one vast league of mercy; let them throw aside selﬁshness
and indolence, and look the dread truth in the face. Those
who have intellect and courage can ﬁght the battle as some of
them are doing already. The more timid and helpless
sisters can do much by never allowing the Vivisector to
darken their door, or giving aid or countenance to any
hospital or establishment where his spirit reigns. I think
there are very few women who, when they once know the
truth, would wish to be spared pain, or even save their
lives, at the expense of the protracted martyrdom of millions
of innocent fellow creatures. There are many whose hearts
will ache for days and days, and whose eyes will grow dim
with bitter tears, while revelling in the air and sunshine of
God’s beautiful world, who will feel the sudden stab of
memory at their heart amid the festive scene, and be well-
nigh driven to despair by the wail of creation in their ears,
when at night, prostrate on their knees, they implore the
Almighty to protect the helpless and oppressed. But still,
—except those who are completely hardened, mean, and
selﬁsh,—most women, I think, will bear their anguish
gladly, if they can relieve the pain. To add their mite to
this result lies in the power of everyone ; and I trust I have
not pleaded quite in vain.

To those who, perchance, may think that I lift up
my voice for the love of strife and argument, I can only
answer, as others have done before me, that “there
are moments in one’s life when one is ashamed to
remain silent.” If I followed my bent, the soothing,
beauties of nature and the entrancing charms of art would

 




 

10

alone gild the evening of my life. But how can anyone
bask 1n peaceful bliss with a black shadow eve1 hovering
above? I ﬂy, as many a wounded soul has done before me,
to the relief of action; and howsoever scathing the judgments
may be which are passed upon my daring, I have that within
me which weighs up all else,—the consciousness of having
done my utmost in a good and noble cause.

WALBURGA EHRENGARDA PAGET

(née COUNTEss HOHENTHAL).

 

 

 




 

 

 

 




sum/rm Stunt and @utmmtimml Suriqtg tor the
ﬁrnteqtinn nﬁ gnimalz ﬁmm iﬁiviaqcﬁuu.

 

OFFICES: 20, VICTORIA STREET, LONDON, S.W

 

Vice-Presidents.
THE LORD CHIEF JUSTICE OF ENGLAND.

THE DUKE OF PORTLAND.

The MARQUIS OF BUTE.

The MARQUIS 0F HERTFORD.

The MARQUIS OF WORCESTER.

The DOWAGER MARCHIONESS OF ORMONDE.
The EARL OF DELAWARR.

The EARL OF DARNLEY.

The DOWAGER COUNTESS OF PORTSMOUTH.
VISCOUNT SIDMOUTH.

The BISHOP OF BATH AND WELLS.

The BISHOP OF MANCHESTER.

The BISHOP OF LIVERPOOL.

The BISHOP OF SOUTHWELL.

The BISHOP OE WAKEFIELD.

The BISHOP SUFFRAGAN 0F COVENTRY.
BISHOP BARRY.

BISHOP CRAMER-ROBERTS.

The BISHOP OF NOTTINGHAM.

 

THE DUCHESS or PORTLAND.

LORD CARDROSS.

LORD CONGLETON.

LORD LEIGH.

VISCOUNT POLLINGTON.

LORD RADSTOCK.

LORD ROBARTES.

Her Excellency LADY PAGET.
LORD JUSTICE LOPES.

Rt. Hon. JAMES STANSFELD, M.P.
The ARCHBISHOP OF TUAM.

Hon. EVELYN ASHLEY.

The DEAN OF LLANDAFF.

SIR GERALD CODRINGTON, Bart.
WILLIAM ADLAM, Esq., F.S.A.
FRANK MORRISON, Esq.

ROBERT T. REID, Esq., Q.C., M.P.

' REV. CANON WILRERFORCE.

Central Executive Committee

The LADY ABINGER.

MRS. ADLAM.

MRS. ARTHUR ARNOLD.
LADY EDITH ASHLEY.

REV. J. P. BACON-PHILLIPS.
MRS. BARRY.

ERNEST BELL, Esq., M.A.
EDWARD BERDOE, Esq.,
ALEXR. BOWIE, Esq, M.D.
The Hon. MRS. R. C. BOYLE.
MISS OLIVE BRYANT.

The COUNTESS OF CAMPERDOWN.
JOHN H. CLARKE, Esq., M.D.
MISS FRANCES POWER COBBE

J. E. COOKE, Esq.

MRS. E. M. JAMES.

REV. FRANCIS G. JONES.

[M.R.C.S.
L.R.C.P. Ed,

 

MRS. LEYCESTER.

W. S. LILLY, Esq., LL.M.

MISS MARSTON.

REV. J. MATTHEWS.

MISS S. S. MONRO.

MRS. FRANK MORRISON.

The LADY MOUNT-TEMPLE.

JOSIAH OLDFIELD, Esq., M.A., B.C.L.
MRS. JAMES PENDER.

F. E. PIRKIS, Esq., R.N., F.R.G.S.
MRS. LLOYD PRICE.

LESTER REED, Esq, F.C.S., F.I.C.
MISS ELLEN E. REES.

REV. F. S. ROSS, B.A.

GEORGE W. E. RUSSELL, Esq, M.P.
REV. J. H. SATCHELL.

MARK THORNHILL, Esq.

Hon. Treasurer.——HON. BERNARD COLERIDGE, Q.C., M.P.
Secretary_——BENJA MIN BRYAN, Esq.

Assistant Secretary—SIDNEY G. TRL-‘T, Esq-

THE Object of the Society is the Total Abolition of the practice Of Vivisection as
deﬁned in the Report Of the Royal Commission.

Those Who sympathise With this Object are most earnestly entreated to afford the
Society all the help in their power, by subscribing, and inducing others tO subscribe,
liberally to its funds ; by Obtaining signatures to Petitions to Parliament ; and also
by disseminating the publications Of the Society. and especially its organ THE
ZOOPHILIST, wherein the latest information reSpecting the Anti-Vivisection agitation
is to be found.

Member’s Annual Subscription, IOS. Life Membership, £5. Subscription to
THE ZOOPHILIST, the Organ Of the Cause, 3S. 6d. per annum, post free.

,__ .__....

 

PEWIRESS & (10., PIIEte;,—2S,LiRle Queen Street, High l-IO—lbornﬁFfC. 5. -‘ .

 




