”INTERESTS OF HUMANITY”

(IN CONNECTION WITH

VIVISECTION/

l

30])7'2'012Wl 63/ HpVP/(lx/ [)(J'I’IH/ZLS‘R2:07"), 0f “SHAFTS” (London), in

the ﬂﬂﬁlﬂblg/ e/(N/J'I’lﬂl A 1V T]? V] VLYEC’TIOZV.

Issued in this form by the Illinois Anti-Vivisection Society. Aurora, 111.. U. S. A.

 

 

Price 7'30 pm: 100: 150 pm‘ how. post—paid.

 

 




 

 

*4—

nition is clear. Further, I regard man as composed of a physical frame and a
moral and spiritual nature ——in fact I adopt Plato’s deﬁnition of him: a soul and a
body.

VIVISECTION IN HISTORY.

Let us ﬁrst of all consider how the inactive of: vivisection has come to us, and
what has been its position in history. it is a practice of great antiquity. In the
days when we ﬁrst read of it it was not so very unnatural a proceeding as it is now-
adays when nominally—and as even the pessimists must allow often really ——the
spirit of genuine humanity is abroad in irany lands. In the days of Herophilus
of Chalcedon (B. C. 280-335). Celsus (about A. D. 14). Galen (A.D. 131), Might gen-
erally made Right; slavery was the order of the day; criminals and prisoners of
war were tortured; yet even then a voice was sometimes raised, and we ﬁnd a
Cicero. a Plutarch, asserting that neglect of, or cruelty to. animals was wrong and
disgusting. When men and women were treated as they were in those days. when
the head of the house had the right of life and death. over his household, it is a
marvel to ﬁnd these two men proclaiming that animals had a right to be consid-
ered, and that it was unworthy of an enlightened man to treat them as chattels.
The same tone prevailed down through history: a ancis of Assisi might arise
and speak for his “poorer fellow creatures,” a Luther might confess that a future
life was possibly in store for them, but these men were exceptions in this as in
other matters; the order of the day was. that the strong should rule. the weak go
to the wall. and if men and women had to succumb to this code, it is not surpris-
ing that animals shared the same lot. If when it was attempted to prolong a
Pope’s life by sacriﬁcing those who were less highly placed (I allude to one of the
earliest recorded attempts at transfusion of blood). if when the Dukes of Flor-
ence handed over criminals to the University of Pisa perfmme la notomz’a, animals
were treated in the same fashion, they only suffered for having been born in bar-
barous times. For however civilised in some ways these times were. such acts as
these prove them to have been barbarous and degraded—all the more degraded
because of the civilisation possessed by certain nations, which enabled them to
raise those glorious monuments on which the world still looks with wonder and
delight, and even more, which enabled them to leave behind an equally glorious
literature. Such a civilisation should have made them turn with horror from
actions like these, as not only wrong in themselves, but morally hideous, and
therefore incompatible with the intellectual and artistic splendour on which
these and similar deeds have cast such a lurid light. Again, following down
through history till even near our own days, we ﬁnd the same code; right wzs
supposed to be the constant companion of might, and in such a state of society it
is not very surprising if we ﬁnd Harvey ’s vivisections patronised by King Charles I. .
especially when we remember that some forty years later Samuel Pepys tells of
how he spent three-quarters of an hour, in great discomfort, standing on a car—
riage wheel, for the pleasure of seeing a wretched fellow-man executed for high
treason. And so things went on; the strong tyrannised when they dared, though
semetimes it cost them their heads; the weak succumbed; those who rose against
the authorities and failed, were done to death, some on the block, others, more
hapless, were hanged, drawn and quartered. and their heads placed where all

 




 

._ 5 -

men might see them, sometimes even at the very'gates of those to whom they
were nearest and dearest, until the American War of Independence, followed as
it was by the French revolution of 1789, convulsed all the governments of Europe,
and brought in a new order of things. From that day, however much the old
methods may have been used, they have always been known to be methods of a
past generation. With the great watchwords, Liberty, Equality, Fraternity, a
new life was breathed into society; from henceforth, however much the practice
i'night belie the theory, might was no longer supposed to be right; the poor and
the weak and the despised were recognised as having claims which the strong
were bound to listen to and to enforce; and in England the legal stamp was put on
this new dispensation by two measures, carried in the Houses of Parliament—
the Cruelty to Animals Act (1822), and the Negro Emancipation Act (1834); and in
discussing vivisection this is an historical fact which must not be overlooked.

In look'ng b ac k through history, and beginning from pre-Christian
times, we have seen that, though here and there a good man might lift up his
voice for animals, and claim mercy as their right, yet the majority cared not for
such things. Though Cicero (B. C. 50) and Plutarch (A. D. 96) spoke for them,
yet we ﬁnd from Plautus (B. C. 220), Pliny (A. D. 79) and others. that even human
vivisection went on in their respective times. Again we ﬁnd Francis of Assisi
(A. D. 1200) speaking for animals, while heretics were tortured and burnt in the
name of religion; later we ﬁnd Shakespeare in his Cymbeline condemning ani-
mal vivisection as a heart-hardening practice, at the moment almost when Rous-
set, surgeon to Henry ill. of France, was looking to trying a daring and difficult
operation on a criminal to be granted him by his rOyal master. Later, in Charles
the Seeond’s time. we ﬁnd Lord Ormond, in his work on Calvary, laying down
as an axiom. that in nine cases out of ten, when a horse and his rider differ, the
horse is right and the rider wrong; later again we ﬁnd Voltaire scathingly de-
riding the vivisector, while Dr. Samuel Johnson (1709-84) in an age of corruption
and utilitarianism. raised his voice like one crying in the wilderness, and de-
nounced animal vivisection as so degrading and abominable, that no discoveries,
even were any made by its means, were worth the soul-killing effect it had on its
votaries. Then last, not least, when the old order is passing or has passed away,
we ﬁnd two Acts (those already mentioned) passed by the English Parliament,
each for a different section of the oppressed. each on moral grounds, each pro-
claiming that might does not make right, but that the helpless and the dumb have
a right to freedom and protection from cruelty—the animal, the negro—~two por—
tions of the community which up to that time had possessed no rights; a recog-
nition, though an unconscious one, of the solidarity of interests which unite all
who are desolate and oppressed.

We have thus seen how vivisection arose, in times when cruelty was not only
sanctioned by law or by what stood for law, but by the habits of the age; and how
it was continued, one may almost say naturally, side by side with other forms of
cruelty down through history, yet how it was protested against by some men,
who, wiser than we are nowadays, seem to have apprehended that there was
more involved in it than merely that cruelty, which in so many diﬁerent forms,
surrounded them in those times. We have seen how vivisection did not seek any

 

ALL—£1241: Ami...“

‘ $9:—
,.,.. ”.9: ,

‘r
i
,7
.A'
l
1|
1

 




 

 

 

 

  

S])()Clztl sanction. but only existed as part. and a small part. of a vast mass of
barbarisni.
VI V].Sld()"l()N IN 'l‘ H l", l’ 1: ms ICN'I‘ 1.).\ Y.

But now it has assumed a dil'l'erent complexion: while sull'ering in general is
being diminished, sull'ering in the physiological lal)m'atories is. owing to the re-
ﬁnements of scientilic barbarisin. increasing. and instead ol‘ being only a part we
great system of abuse, vivisection has become a factor in society. and an integral
part of medical education; an active propaganda is carried on in its behalf. and
we are no longer asked to accept it as ii'n-idental to a state of social barbarism, to-
gether with which we should have expneterl it to pass away. but rather as a prac-
tice creditable to those who carry it on. anel benelinial t.) the human race. Thus
it becomes necessary to ask what vivisection essentially is. what it alt-ails. and
what are its necessary results to morality. ls it. like so called sport. merely a
remnant of barbarism, or is it something far more dangerous to the co nmunity '3
I should reply to this latter question in th ! aiiirmative.

VlVlSl‘N‘TiUN 15‘ A \'l(‘l‘}.

Vivisection is the expression ol' an unbridled desire for physiological know-
ledge, a desire so strong that. to achieve its object. those actuated by it are ready
to break through legal and conventional barriers. and t ) do things which most ol’
them under other circumstances would condemn. I am here speaking of those
men, who. not being absolutely callous by nature. consider cruelty to animals as
in itself objectionable; I do not discuss those who deny that an animal has any
rights; like other person; devoid of' incral balance they must be legislated for.
discussion in their case being mere waste ol’ time. Now the desire for physiolog-
ical knowledge is not in itself a wrong thing. quite the reverse: it is only the un-
bridled desire for it against which i have anything to say: and the questionl
would wish to ask is, What is a vice but the lawless and continued indulgence 01'
an unbridled desire for something which in itself is not necessarily evil 2’ the en-
deavour to attain the object desired by any and every means. the neglect of inno-
cent means because less attractive, the fostering of the temptation to achieve by
lawless means that which appears more difﬁcult or impossible of achievement by
lawful means? Here it seems to me we have the difference between vices and
criminal Vices. )riminal vices start from things evil. in themselves. vices pars (If
simples do not necessarily do so. And before proceeding I must state most clearly
that in using the terms Vice and immorality I must 11 ot be supposed to be allud-
ing to any special vice or form of immorality. Vice is of many forms. all proceed-
ing from the same source, but much inﬂuenced by the temperament and surround-
ings of those in whom we see it exist. For this, if for no other reason. it is a
fallacy to maintain that the vivisector, who with all the modern reﬁnements of
science~curare, electricity, the ingenious pump ior keeping up artiﬁcial respir-
ation in an animal that otherwise would cease to live—carries out lengthy and
torturing experiments, is a moral man, while those who sin against the 80013»1
code, in monetary or other matters, are immoral men. The immorality is the
same in all these cases; it is not the original desire which is wrong ordinarily, but
the unbridled, immoderate, I may say, lieentious. indulgence of it which is wrong
—an indulgence which. putting aside all claims of others. simply eIldGiLVOUI'S t0

 
  
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
   
 
    
   
   
 
 
 
  
  
   
  
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
  
 

 

  




 

 

  

«7*

achieve its purpose by any means it can command. To say that the vivisector is
calm, impassive, not carried away by violent passions, is a mistake. Unless we
are to regard him as from the ﬁrst lost to all power of sympathy with any but him-
self, he must be carried away by a violent passion, or he never could carry on his
dismal work. He is in a state of moral intoxication; desire has become supreme;
and he is not the ﬁrst who has justiﬁed the most ﬂagrant defection from the moral
code by high and euphemistic terms. Lecky has called the saddest class of the
c Humanity by the noble name, “Priestesses of Humanity”; does the name change
the sad realities of their lives ‘3 Surely not; neither of the high—sounding names
bestowed on vivisection and its votaries prevent vivisection from being in its very
essence a vice, and as such, a thing which cannot be practisedwithout corrupting
those who do so, good as in other respects they may be. And this I can speak of
from my own experience, as I have lived in a hospital where it was carried on, and
know how its pursuit blinds otherwise honourable men to dishonesty and false-
hood. There is another consideration which leads to the same conclusion, that
vivisection is a vice, but it must yield for the moment to the question what vivi-
section entails, and whether there is any course of action, universally deprecated
in free countries, from which it is inseparable.

VIVISECTION IS TYRANNY.

Vivisection of necessity entails the use to the uttermost, and that without any
intended or possible beneﬁt to itself, of the weak by the strong: of those who have
no political voice by those who have, of those who cannot speak for themselves
by those who can, and who in this matter are virtually judge and jury in one.
Now the true word for such a line of conduct is tyranny; to p “actise vivisection
One must be a tyrant, to approve of vivisection one must sanction tyranny. There
are grades of tyrants and grades of tyranny; some tyrants have had some very
noble qualities, possibly so have some vivisectors; still they are tyrants, inasmuch
as they demand as a right this power to use to the uttermost those who are weak,
and powerless to resist them, quite irrespective of their beneﬁt, and in ways
necessitating great suffering.

PART 2D. VIVISECTION IS CRUELTY.

Vivisection also entails cruelty for cruelty, is the infliction of severe suﬁ'ering
and damage on anything which is not to reap any personal beneﬁt therefrom.
There has been a good deal of hair—splitting over this word; people talk of “nec-
essary cruelty” and "unnecessary cruelty;” the two words cannot be used in con-
cert: if a thing is necessary it is not cruel; it is as unallowable a combination as
another form of words used at one time, but of late, it seems to me, somewhat
gone out of fashion—“necessary vice.” This unnatural formula is kept up be-
cause persons knowing cruelty to be "wrong, yet often for convenience sake choos—
ing to inflict it, object to call their own actions by their proper names, think that
sins grow less if lightly spoken of, and thus the word “necessary” is introduced
to palliate what is felt to be unjustiﬁable—in fact to recall Paradise Lost “and
with necessity, the tyrant’s plea, excuse their devilish deeds.” But cruelty is un—
doubtedly the intentional infliction of severe suffering and damage on any senti-
ent creature, without any beneﬁt to such creature being intended. Perhaps the
best rough and ready deﬁnition of cruelty is that given by Montaigne, “Tout ce

 

‘ 1:QV-.'.,.L‘_~._ L

»- C~.~L—.‘._. L

“ “My”

  




 

 

 

___8__

qui est au dela de la mort simple, me semblc cruaute" (“Anything beyond
simple death seems to me to be cruelty"). This deﬁnition, by the way, conclu-
sively answers the favourite fallacy put forward by the supporters of vivisection,
that the right of killing an animal involves the right of vivisecting it; a fallacy
put forward without any belief in it, else these same casuists would be bound to
maintain that the right of executing a convict entailed the right of torturing
him, as it did formerly; and here I may remark that judicial torture was found
useless: like vivisection it extracted answers to questions put, certainly, but
answers in both cases unreliable and therefore misleading.

It follows from what has just been said, that in asking us to support vivisec-
tion we are asked to support tyranny and cruelty—~a most dangerous demand, and
one which for our sakes should not be listened to for a moment. To support
tyranny in any form is to help to keep it among us. To foster the idea that,
under any circumstances, the weak may be oppressed, and that the strong are to
be the judges of when these circumstances arise, is a direct blow at true liberty.
which cannot exist side by side with oppression. To support cruelty to animals
is to support that, which, by the lawsof England and America, has been declared
to be wrong; laws passed not for the sake of expediency, but purely on moral
grounds. Thus, in asking us to sanction vivisection, we are asked to sanction
what has already been declared wrong. This in itself is bad enough; but when
that request is backed by a promise (without which such request would not be
considered possible) that this sanction of an acknowledged wrong will be of bene-
ﬁt to ourselves, the request assumes a far more evil complexion. For what is it
but a request that for a certain price we shall haul down our standard of moral—
ity, make ourselves accessories to what has, by the universal consensus of public
opinion, been stamped as unjustiﬁable, and, for the sake of a bribe, become
sharers of spoils taken from those whom we have acknowledged to be deserving
of protection. I confess I fail to see what more insulting proposition can be made
to man or Woman than this: to sell one’s idea of what is right and wrong, 21a, of
morality, for a price; for that is what it amounts to. And this is the further
proof, to which I alluded above, that vivisection is essentially a vice; for vice is
ever ready to make this proposition, and so blinds its votaries that they do not
see that there is in such transactions but one individual more contemptible than
the seller, and that one is the buyer. ' That such a suggestion should be made.
and accepted, is in itself sufﬁcient proof of the preposition I laid down in com-
mencing this paper, that vivisection does not only, or even chieﬂy, affect its vic-
tims, but that it is really of more damage to us than to them.

Anything which tends to make exclusively physical good an object of ardent
desire is dangerous. There is a strong current in the society of to-day towards
this point. A novelist has lately said that there is too little of battle and murder
in modern novels, that an unhealthy moral tone has developed in them in conse-
quence. Without in any way endorsing this strangely worded assertion, it is yet
impossible to deny that the barbarism of the camp is less harmful than that of the
pot-house or the scented boudoir. The Zola type of novel is the natural
accompaniment of a state of society which tolerates vivisection. They each attack
the purely materialistic side of life, and imagine that by studying it they will at

 

 

 




 

 

.__. 9 _,.

last attain a power of describing, and a knowledge of, the whole man. The vivi-
sector, beginning possibly with good intentions, but having let himself be seduced
into lawless ways, is led on, till he reaches a depth of cruelty, and at times of de-
pravity, which, had we it not from the physiologists themselves, even thestrong-
est opponents of the system would refuse to believe. I do not now allude to the ex-
periments on children and adults recorded by the experimenters themselves; for
instance. those with alcohol, drugs, inoculations, electricity, in England and Amer-
ica; these [cruel and immoral as they are. are yet in most cases capable of being
discussed. Those experiments I allude to are of a class which even the freedom
necessarily granted to a paper like this, will not permit me to do more than touch
on. Possibly had those who carried them out been warned in their youth of.
what they afterwards would do, they might have replied, like Hazael, “Is thy
servant a dog, that he should do this thing ‘9” And in this connection it is of cm-
inous import. that although one of these experiments was of such a nature that
scarcely any English medical paper did more than slightly allude to it, and that
the only one which did give it fairly in cwtenso gave it in the original French,
without any attempt at translation the greatest English Medical Court of Appeal—
on being memorialised by the Moral Reform Union of England. to express its rep—
robation, the experimenter being more or less under its jurisdictionwdeclined to
intervene. and treated the whole matter as one of purely biological research.
This is what Vivisection leads to. and what all who support it must be prepared for.

PLEA FOR VIVISECTION.

The good of. humanity. i. c , its physical health, is ostensibly the thing sought
for. the supposed physical welfare is to be our guide; If we so accept it, we must
be ready to follow it to the bitter end. English men and women were seventeen
years ﬁghting against the doctrine in another shape. Another class of Vice was
legislated for on the plea of the good of humanity. but it was of such a very mons-
trous class that the public awoke quickly and perceived the absurdity as well as
the infamy of such a plea. Vivisection is more insidious in its attack; it talks 'of
knowledge. “science” as people like to call it, nowadays, knowledge being too
simpleia word to fall down and worship. The good of humanity is put forward
with an endeavour to imply, by using this high sounding word, that the spiritual
nature will be cared for as well as the material nature. But this is a delusion for
anyone to fall into. We have all heard of the brain centres, which’are supposed
so largely to determine our actions and lives, according as they are developed or
atrophied. How can we look for good accruing to humanity as a whole, or indeed
how can we look for even its material good, if the brain centres, which should
tend to make us merciful and pitiful, have been systematically atrophied, by the
methods of education now so largely carried on in the physiological schools all
through Europe ‘9 We know how the frame is strengthened and how portions of
it can even be abnormally developed by exercise: it is the same with the mental
and moral faculties. Cultivate the power of surpressing feelings of pity and
mercy. and in time those feelings will become weakened, if not extinct; we can—
not indulge in cruelty to animals, and yet remain in the long run humane to each.
other. Already there are signs that a less merciful spirit rules the medical world
than that which prevailed in the time of: Sir Jharles Bell. About the year 1842,

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

_ -x—vuﬁ—w m _,_,. >v ,_

r—w

the Medico- J/Limwg/ical Review, then the leading organ of the profession. after giv-
ing an account of M. Lon g'et’s experi‘nents wrote: "We cannot conceal our ab—
horrent dislike of what the French. call vivisection, in which unof‘fending brutes
are made the victims of the most shocking suiferings, all with the view of advanc-
ing science.” All who are. conversant with English medical literature of to—day,
will know that one might search its pages in vain for such an expression of opin-
ion: far from deprecating what is done abroad, the greatest admiration is ex-
pressed, and the laments are loud anl often repeated, that any legislation what-
ever should exist, which, even in the slightest degree, may prevent the “splendid
work” (for that is the term applied t') unbridled vivisection) done on the Continent
from being repeated or initiated in England.

Nevertheless, it is not on this ground, the possible damage to us materially,
that we are called on to seriously think over this subject. any more than it is
from the hope of beneﬁt to ourselves that we should condone it; it is on the '
great ground of morals that we should take our stand. It is not a matter of kind-
ness, or of our duty to animals, or of their rights as part of the community—a
position be it observed which was granted when laws were passed for their pro-
tection. By passing these laws they were declared to have rights, which hence—
forth were to be considered, and which cannot be curtailed 0r over-ridden, as they
have been curtailed and over-ridden, by the English Act permitting. though re—
stricting, vivisection, without an infraction of law, dangerous to all who depend
on laws for their protection. It is on the ground of our duty to ourselves that
we are most called on to consider the present state of vivisection', if we are not
prepared to follow the vivisectors to the bitter end, to wherever they may tell us
our physical good demands that we should go, then we must stop at once; we may
intend to say, “so far, no farther.” but we shall ﬁnd it impossible. Once on the
downward path, and we shall be hopelessly drawn on, as they themselves have
been. We must remember that any attempts at regulating evil by legislation
for it, is ruinous to morality; it gives an ofﬁcial stamp to immorality, and de-
grades any legislature which lends itself to such a proceeding. If a thing is
right, let it alone; if wrong, stamp it out if you can, but never seek to make terms
with it. For this also we may go to Shakespeare; for the reply he puts into Por-
tia’s mouth when the Dog-e of Venice is appealed to:

"To do a great right. do a little wrong,”
is unanswerable:

“It must not be; .

’Twill be recorded for a precedent.

And many an error by the same example
Will rush into the state: it cannot be.”

CONCLUSION.

To conclude: Vivisection has been regarded, as a rule, from too narrow a point
of View; so have many other evils. The fact of the solidarity of evil. and the sol-
idarity of good, has been too long overlooked. Unfortunately the enemies of
true morality have understood this solidarity better than their opponents; they
have stood shoulder to shoulder in a manner which deserves that truest form of
ﬂattery. imitation. Those who, while denouncing immorality of one form, 3’913
support it in another form, are like a man who builds a wall with one hand and

 

 




 

 

. l,, -* -- . —_,—, vs: —, —--—.-v—--— - ....- .__. — ._ ,‘M;‘4.jrp—"—rr‘ ___, A
4, , 7731:, w ,- .1 'i .., . - ~

“11*.

undermines its foundations with the other. A physician might as well attack one
symptom of a disease. neglect others, and leave the real cause unsought for and
untouched. To hear a dignitary of the Church, as I have heard one, speak in
the most admirable language of purity of life, and in the strongest terms de-
nounce what is ordinarily called immorality, and to hear that same man, as I
have myself heard, immediately laud vivisection because “so much had been dis-
covered by it” is to learn why the various moral causes, whose position is so
strong, and whose advocates are so many, make such slow progress. Their advo—
cates are simply putting on the drag themselves. Unthinkingly such an expres-
sion of feeling as that just mentioned, throws back, not only the cause attacked,
but the cause advocated. For the worls in which vivisection was defended, could
not fail to suggest to some minds the idea that possibly the speaker might not
have so earnestly denounced vices of other descriptions, had he thought they. too,
might lead to material beneﬁt; we know this position has been taken up by many
before now. It is the same with the opponent of Vivisection who yet refuses to
join hands with the so-called moral reformer; he also is delaying his work. Their
causes are the same; it is not a question of animals, or of other sections of the
community, but the eternal question of right and wrong. Much has been said as
though our superior intellectual developement were to give us rights in this
matter, and as though we were to accept the code of morals with regard to it
laid down by those leaders in the intellectual world to whom, nowadays, people
bow down, as they formerly did to the priest. Never was there a greater mis-
take. Intellect, like electricity, is an admirable servant, but a bad master; it is
agrand instrument, but of itself takes no cognisance of good. and evil. Intellect-
ual developement is in no way a necessary concomitant of moral developement;
in fact the spirit of evil is always represented as intellect deprived of morals and
heart.

We have had too many examples in the past, and in the present, of how a
great absorption of mind may damage a character, for it to be necessary to partic-
ularise any such sad proof of human weakness, yet as Specially bearing on the
vivisection question it is as well to recall two such examples. The one—that ter—
rible story of cannibalism in Africa, which an Englishman allowed to take place
before his eyes without let or hindrance, though one word from him would have
saved the victim, a young girl. He was a scientiﬁc man, and wished to assure
himself that cannibalism really did exist. As his leader, then absent, observed,
regretfully, “he was as nice a fellow as you could wish to meet, but he looked on
this as a matter of science.” The other _——the effort made in 1894 by Dr. Pyle, to
pass a bill through the Ohio Legislature for the establishment of a ﬁrst-class lab-
oratory, where experiments should be made on the brains of living criminals; a
bill which, backed by doctors and clergymen. was happily rejected. *

If only to preserve the physiologist from falling into these and other depths
which we have seen are possible, though generally hidden from the public, it is
our duty to take an independent stand in this matter. And here women are es—

 

[* Dr. Pyle did not request a laboratory especially—but that condemned criminals be turned over to

physiologists generally for experimentation.—-ED."|

 




 

 

 

 

pccially called on to act. The churches have stood aside; they, had they spoken
with one accord, could, I believe, have stemmed this tide to a large extent, with
great increase thereby of their own inﬂuence: many would have rallied to them
for their works, who care little or nothing for their dogmas.

It will be a bad omen for the future of society, if women also should turn a
deaf ear in this matter. They have alwaysbeen, and always will be, the greatest
sufferers if despotic and immoral views prevail. Any attempt on woman’s part
to tolerate an oppression of the weak by the strong, of the mentally undeveloped
hy the mentally developed. is suicidal; it is but perpetuating the blunders and the
follies of the past, which women of advanced views generally declare to have been
the result of their own exclusion from the conduct of affairs. Any permission to
allow, under restrictions 0r otherwise, a thing admitted in itself to be wrong, is,
in so far, more dangerous in women than it is in men, inasmuch as women have
always been the reﬁning element in life. At this juncture especially}, when they
are taking so much more part than hitherto in public matters, it is incumbent
on them to show that this reﬁning inﬂuence attributed to them will bear the
stress of daily life without being worn off. ‘

Women, necessarily, have more power over the medical world than men ever
can have. If they choose to put a stop, to vivisection. they can. The last twenty
years have shown what women can do in public matters, both in England and
America, when once convinced that measures are of an immoral tendency; we
must look to them for uncompromising action with regard to this evil, which,
striking at the roots of morality, by teaching that it has its price, tends to reduce
society, however intellectually cultivated it may be, to a state of moral chaos,
where each man does what is good in his own eyes.

Expediency is pleaded for the practice. What is true expediency 1’ Let us
listen to the words of a great statesman and philosopher, who, living in the midst
of great intellectual.developement and moral degradation, thought much on this
question. arguing with himself how it came that so often expediency seemed to
conflict with morality. After much thought he laid down an infallible rule, a
touchstone, by which one can always separate the true from the false expediency. ,
This is what he says, and with his words I close this paper: “When, therefore,
anything apparently of advantage is proffered to you, you necessarily are much
excited; but if on giving your attention to it you perceive that anything dishon-
ourable is joined to that thing which is supported by the appearance of advantage,
then you are called on, not to put aside that which is advantageous, but to under-
stand that where therc is dishonour, there there cannot be advantage” (Cicero
(la ()ﬂiciis). .

 




