ANNUAL REPORT 0E THE ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

730 FIFTH AVENUE, NEW YORK 19, N. Y.

This report covers the ﬁrst year of the Animal Welfare Institute, from Iuly 10,
1951 to lune 30, 1952.

Upon its incorporation as a non-proﬁt organization under the laws of
Delaware, the following ofﬁcers and directors were elected: Christine Stevens,
President; Alfred R. Glancy Jr., Vice-President; Roger L. Stevens, Treasurer.
Estella Draper was appointed Executive Secretary by the directors. The follow-
ing persons agreed to serve as members of the Advisory Committee: Dr. Lee
R. Dice, Director, the Institute of Human Biology, University of Michigan;
Dr. Robert Gesell, Professor of Physiology, University of Michigan; Dr. Eric
H. Hansen, President, Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Animals; Dr. Peter Okkelberg, Emeritus Professor of Zoology and Emeritus
Associate Dean of the Graduate School, University of Michigan; David
Ricardo, Secretary, British Columbia Society for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Animals.

In announcing its proposed program, the Institute cited three objectives:

1. Care: The establishment of a code for the handling and use of
laboratory animals.

The Institute will interest itself in all species of experimental animals.

2. Research: The encouragement of medical research of the highest
possible quality as opposed to mere quantity.

The development of techniques that will reduce to a minimum both the
pain suffered by animals and the number of animals required.

3. Procurement Programs: The survey of existing and proposed pro-
grams for the procurement of laboratory animals in an effort to discover the
best method of satisfying the needs of humanity in the advancement of
medicine, public health, agriculture, etc., without jeopardizing practical animal
welfare work or the general advancement of humanity through increasing
consideration for all living creatures.

Collection: of Information

A major portion of the work of the Institute during its first year has
been the collection of reference material relating to these and other animal
welfare problems. A body of information of this kind has never before been
gathered in the United States; the task, therefore, is a large one necessitating
the correlation of facts in a wide variety of ﬁelds.

The basic problems involved are ethical ones. They demand a better
understanding between science and the humanities. Dr. Albert Schweitzer
represents, through his great accomplishments in medicine, practical Christian-
ity and ethics, the approach which the Institute believes necessary for the
achievement of its aims. It has sought Dr. Schweitzer’s guidance and received
much personal encouragement from him. His works, which stress the neces-
sity of extending a full sense of man’s ethical obligations to other forms of
life, provide a frame of reference for studies in the humanities.

Through consultation and correspondence with a large number of biolo-
gists and the collection of published material, the Institute has obtained a
fund of information including both fact and opinion which is essential for
the evaluation of potential cooperation between the biological sciences and
the humanities in the ﬁeld of animal welfare.

 




 

In addition to these basic studies, economics and the dissemination of
propaganda as they currently relate to animal welfare are being examined
by the Institute. These, together with legislation, are areas in which sharp
controversy exists and in which the Institute has made great efforts to dis-
tinguish accurately between fact and ﬁction. A listing of some of the speciﬁc
categories in which information is being collected follows:

Care and Housing of Laboratory Animals

1. Design and construction of buildings with reference to problems of
sanitation, ventilation, temperature, space, and general comfort and
efﬁciency.

Design and manufacture of cages and other enclosures, feeding and
watering methods and devices.

Selection and training of animal room personnel.

Diets for experimental animals.

Bedding and resting places for experimental animals.

Exercise for experimental animals.

Prevention of disease and parasites.

Anaesthesia, post-operative care and euthanasia.

.N

asavew

Methods in Research, Teaching, Testing and Production of
Products which Involve the Use of Animals

1. Comparison of current practices in various institutions.

2. Methods and planning which could substitute for pain-inﬂiction.

3. Mass experimentation involving pain or distress. The ethical prob-
lems which it raises. Comparison with intensive observations on a
smaller number of animals. '

4. Evaluation of the opinion of biologists on experimental methods
and needs. -

5. Evaluation of the opinion of biologists and laymen on the amount
of suffering which it is justiﬁable to inﬂict in the course of scientiﬁc
investigation.

Funds for Animal Experimentation

1. Sources and amount of funds for research“: Foundations, endowments,
annual drives, government.

2. Allocation and purposes for which funds are used and their effect on
experimental animals.

Procurement of Diﬂerent Species of Laboratory Animals

:1. General
a) Breeders and biological supply houses
b) Breeding in laboratories.

2. Dogs and cats
_a) Breeding
b) Purchase
c) Voluntary arrangements for use of impounded animals in pain-

less experimentation under humane supervision.

d) Compulsory requisition.

3. Wild species

L a) Capture and importation.

b) Breeding.

4. Problems, costs, and comparisons.

-2—

 




Legislation and Codes

1.
2.

3.
4.

5.

General animal protective legislation.

Legislation and voluntary codes in America and Europe relating to
the use and treatment of experimental animals.

Administration of such laws and codes.

The relationship of such written documents to actual practice in the
areas which they affect.

Legislation on the procurement of experimental dogs and cats, its
administration and effects.

Humane Societies

1.
2.
3.

Purposes, scope and history.
Activities and accomplishments.
Support of and opposition to effective animal protection.

Man’s Relationship to Other Forms of Life

1.
2.
3.

Historical development of present day attitudes and practices.
World literature, philosophy and religion.
Its role in the advancement of civilization.

Information as outlined above has been collected through:

1.
2.

5.

Consultation and correspondence with authorities in related ﬁelds.

The acquisition of books, pamphlets, and references, subscriptions

to scientiﬁc and animal welfare publications, and a nation-Wide

newspaper clipping service.

Surveys.

Attendance at the folloWing conventions and other gatherings:

Annual meeting of the New" York State Humane Association, Buffalo,
September 17, 1951.

Annual convention of the Americal Humane Association, Cleveland,
October 1-4, 1951.

Annual meeting of the Michigan Federation of Humane Societies,
Ann Arbor, October 20', 1951.

Annual meeting of the Ontario Society for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Animals, St. Catherines, Ontario, October 25-26, 1951.

Animal Care Panel, Chicago, November 29-30, 1951.

Annual meeting of the American Association for the Advancement
of Science, Philadelphia, December 27-30, 1951.

Public hearing on the Hatch-Metcalf bill, Albany, N. Y., February
14, 1952. .

UFAW conference, London, April 18-20, 1952.

Annual convention of the American Veterinary Medical Association,

Atlantic City, June 23-26, 1952. .
Visits to laboratories and breeding establishments.

Representatives of the Institute have made inspection visits to the labora-
tories of hospitals, universities and pharmaceutical houses in Six. states. An
Animal Welfare Institute representative also spent one month in England
where laboratories were observed and discussions held with scientists, educa-
tors and animal welfare workers. ‘

Detailed reports have been made on all of the laboratories visited,
describing accommodations and care for the animals, personnel, equipment
and methods. These reports have not been made public but are in the Institute’s
ﬁles. They include examples of ﬁrst-rate consideration and care for laboratory
animals and examples of ignorance, callousness and ﬁlth, as well as numerous

degrees of intermediate conditions.

....3_

 




In visiting laboratories, an effort was made to ascertain the number,
species, and type of animals being used by each institution and its sources
. of supply. The establishments of breeders who supply millions of animals
to laboratories were also visited.

Dissemination of Information

Publications, reports, and exhibits

The Institute’s ﬁrst publication was a booklet outlining its aims. Prepared
in consultation with a number of scientists and humane leaders, it was circu-
lated in mimeographed form to a larger group with a request for comments.
Finding that it received general scientiﬁc and humane approval, the Institute
then published it as a booklet, and a leaﬂet entitled “Typical Comments” was
prepared from the replies received to the trial mailing. The booklet was
then given a wider distribution, including all humane societies and all mem-
bers of the Federation of American Societies for Experimental Biology with
a request for suggestions and expression of opinion. The replies received
were most interesting and varied; the majority expressed a favorable interest
in the program and aims of the Institute.

In order to make available current information relating to the welfare
of laboratory animals, the Institute began publication in December, 1951, of
a bi-monthly Information Report, four issues of which have now been pub-
lished. Thousands of copies of each issue have been distributed. They have
led to a very substantial correspondence with biologists, animal welfare
workers and other interested persons who have requested further information
from the Institute’s ﬁles and have contributed to its fund of available facts.
Both research laboratories and humane societies are represented on the
Institute’s membership rolls.

A comprehensive report was prepared for a pharmaceutical house which
requested the Institute’s advice on the construction of new animal quarters.
This report is available for use by other institutions.

A mimeographed article on the Institute was prepared for the press
cpnference held by the Institute in New York in December. An effort to
provide accurate information on animal experimentation for use by various
publications has been made through press releases and letters.

, Booth exhibits emphasizing the importance of ethical considerations in
the use of animals and of proper accommodation and care for them were
displayed with the Institute’s literature at the annual meetings of the American
Association for the Advancement of Science and the American Humane
Association.

Throughout the year the Institute has sought to bring to theattention
of the public a straightforward approach to the problems involved in animal
experimentation. Numerous interviews have been given to writers. An Asso-
ciated Press feature story about the Institute was carried in approximately
forty Sunday newspapers in large cities throughout the country, and other
articles appeared in newspapers and popular magazines, as well as scientiﬁc
and humane publications. Reprints were made and distributed of articles
appearing in "Your Dog” magazine and "People Today”. Two articles highly
commending the Institute have been printed in Great Britain: in the Spring
1952 issue of “The UFAW Courier” and in the May 31, 1952 issue of “The
Lancet”, a leading British medical journal.

_4_

 




 

 

 

SEEENE ANNUAL EEI’EIIT
0E THE ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

350 Fifth Avenue, New York 1, New York

(July 1, 1952-June 30, 1953)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

During its second year, the Animal Welfare Institute has continued
to collect and disseminate information relative to the welfare of an-
imals, especially those used for experimental purposes. Representatives
of the Institute have visited the laboratories and animal quarters of
hospitals, foundations, universities and pharmaceutical companies. They
have met with scientists, administrators, and animal protective workers

in various parts of this country and England, have carried on an ex-
tensive correspondence and have participated in a number of conven-
tions and meetings. Bi—monthly Information Reports have been prepared

and eight to ten thousand copies of each issue distributed to biologists,
humane organizations and others.

In the past two years, the Institute’s reference ﬁles have grown
substantially and the information collected has proved useful to many
enquirers. Assistance has been given upon request to institutions plan-
ning to remodel old or construct new animal quarters, both in this
country and abroad. An example of these activities was a request from
a laboratory in Africa relative to the construction of animal quarters.
The Institute had recently acquired from the Lister Institute in Eng-
land a. well-drawn set of plans and descriptive material which seemed
especially well adapted to the needs described, and photostatic copies
were dispatched to Africa. Another example which may be cited was
a large metropolitan hospital in New York City, which was in the pro-
cess of planning new animal quarters at the time Institute representa-
tives visited its laboratory. At the request of the hospital authorities,
recommendations on planning including cages, built-in enclosures and
exercise facilities were presented for their use.

In addition to information concerning animals used in laboratories,
the Institute reported on the important new device developed by George

 




 

A. Hormel and Co. for the C02 anesthetization of hogs prior to slaugh-
ter. Lawrence Langer, Secretary of the National Inventors Council,
learned through the Institute of this work and referred it to the ap-
propriate subcommittee which in turn commended it for reference to
the Army, Navy and Air Force.

This humane and useful invention exempliﬁes one of the ways in
which science and humanitarianism can successfully complement one
another. In this particular case, utilitarian considerations served as a
catalyst between the scientiﬁc research which made the invention pos-
sible and the humane purpose it serves in eliminating a vast amount
of fear and suffering previously inﬂicted on animals as a matter of
course. It is also possible for science and animal welfare to make
direct mutual contributions. Technological advances must be made in
other ﬁelds of animal protection, a painless substitute for the steel
trap being the most urgent need of this kind. Humane contributions
to scientiﬁc work are especially needed in research using animals, for
the quality of the work in a large percentage of laboratories could be
improved by more careful attention to animal welfare. Discoveries of
new techniques to reduce the numbers of animals required in labora-
tories or to reduce the severity of the procedures to which they are
subjected are likewise much needed. Now that the Institute has been
declared ofﬁcially tax exempt, it is hoped that substantial charitable
contributions may be forthcoming which will make it possible to ex-
tend the work of the Institute and to carry out such projects.

Conventions & Meetings

American Association for the Advancement of Science, St. Louis, Missouri, De-
cember 27-30, 1952. A booth display was presented at the Exposition of Science
and Industry which received favorable notice in the press and was viewed by
many visitors. (See the back page of this report for the text.)

American Humane Association, Boston, October 5-9, 1952 at which the President
of the Institute spoke on Humane Education. The President of the Institute also
was appointed to the Committee against Animal Seizure Legislation of the Ameri-
can Humane Association and attended meetings during the year in New York
City, Albany, and Boston.

Animal Care Panel, Chicago, Illinois, December 3-4, 1952.
New York State Humane Association, Albany, January 28, 1953.

Universities .Federation for Animal Welfare, London, England. Executive Com-
mittee Meeting, June 10, 1953, Scientiﬁc Sub-Committee Meeting, June 17, 1953.

Animal Welfare Institute, New York City, October 1, 1952, meeting of Associate
Members; Ann Arbor, Michigan, December 5, 1952, meeting of scientiﬁc mem-
bers of the Advisory Committee and Ofﬁcers.

Summary Of Information Reports

The bi-monthly Information Reports issued by the Institute have
shown the necessity for improving conditions for experimental animals.
The Institute agrees with the American biologist who said:

“That scien-

 

 




 

tists should not be hampered and animals completely protected: this is
one of those consumations devoutly to be hoped for.”

A growing awareness, on the part of some of the men engaged in
the practice of medicine and the related biological sciences, of the
need for greater efforts to prevent suffering to laboratory animals was
praised in the August-October Information Report. At the. same time,
the Institute pointed out that intensiﬁcation of such efforts is much
needed. An interesting suggestion for the humane control of animal
experimentation by scientiﬁc societies and journals was quoted from
the head of a medical research laboratory who is seriously concerned
with the problem of animal suffering in laboratories and believes that
scientists should take the necessary steps “to prevent disorder in our
own house.” This Report also carried an account of the action taken
by the Committee on Legislation of Queens County (New York) Med-
ical Society following passage of the Hatch-Metcalf Act: “May we of
the reference committee further suggest that it is the duty of the pro-
fession as a whole to assure proper enforcement, of safeguards against
abuse of animals obtained through this law. This includes careful
supervision of experiments to see that they are conducted in a humane
manner, the setting up of regulations for the provision of proper
animal cages and care and the elimination of wasteful, purposeless’
and obviously fruitless experiments to which a larger supply of animals
may give rise.”

The intelligent attitude shown by the California Department of
Health Division of Laboratories which has charge of the administration
of the Animal Care Act of that State was cited as a hopeful sign
that this legislation will serve a useful and humane purpose. In a
letter addressed to all agencies using laboratory animals, the chief
of the Division of Laboratories emphasized the fact that using animals
for experimentation was a privilege and added, “The best way to en-
sure this privilege is to achieve a high standard of humane care and

management.”

Although funds for medical research in the United States today are
ten times greater than in 1941, the Institute called attention to the fact
that it is essential for directors of institutions planning new quarters
to insist upon adequate funds for decent and comfortable animal quar-
ters. Instances were cited of inadequate and undesirable quarters, lack
of exercise facilities and resting places, cages of insufﬁcient size for
the animal involved, and the statement was made: “Not only these
animals, but also every citizen who contributes directly or indirectly to
scientiﬁc research involving animals, have the right to a genuine guar-
antee that no unnecessary pain or distress is inflicted on them regardless
of whether or not such inﬂiction has become accepted as routine.”

 




 

The Institute has recommended to readers who are directly con-
cerned with laboratory animals two excellent standard works which
provide a fund of useful information: “The UFAW Handbook on the
Care and Management of Laboratory Animals” edited by A. N. Worden,
and “The Care and Breeding of Laboratory Animals” edited by E. J.
Farris. Also recommended as a reference source was a bibliography
made available by the Kettering Laboratory of the University of Cin-
cinnati. The Institute contributed a substantial list of references to the
recently revised issue of the bibliography.

The annual meeting of the Animal Care Panel, where disease con-
trol in laboratory animal colonies, the construction of animal quarters,
and breeding programs for various species were discussed, was reported
in the November- December issue of the report. Special attention was
given to humane recommendations. A recent statement by the National
Research Council was quoted at the meeting: “It is obviously just as
improper for a scientist to work with inadequately deﬁned animals
as it is for him to use impure drugs or badly calibrated measuring
instruments.” It was pointed out that the implications of this scienti-
ﬁc approach have very considerable humane signiﬁcance. Low standards
of animal care in. laboratories, the acquisition of heterogeneous animals
from a variety of sources, the use of sickly or undernourished animals,
failure to give veterinary treatment or to destroy sick animals, and
other similar practices which lead to unnecessary suffering also con-
tribute to the use of the “inadequately deﬁned animals” which is con-
demned on purely scientiﬁc grounds.

During the course of the business meeting of the Animal Care
Panel a statement of the position of the Institute regarding the pro—
curement of experimental dogs and cats was asked for and given, the
agreements now in effect in Louisville, Kentucky and Vancouver, B.C.
being cited (see Information Reports Vol. 1, No. 2; Vol. 1, No. 6; and
Vol. 2, No. 3). At the request of representatives of the National So-
ciety for Medical Research, a discussion was held following the meet—
ing concerning possible cooperation on this basis between research
institutions and animal protective organizations. Unfortunately, “all
or none” policies in respect to procurement of dogs and cats and the
provision of adequate safeguards for the welfare of laboratory animals
continue to command the support of both the NSMR and anti-vivi-
section societies, and in the May-June Information Report it was
necessary to correct statements made in the NSMR communications
sent to a number of humane societies. At the same time a protest against
the unauthorized use by an antivivisection society of statements made
by a member of the Institute’s Advisory Committee was brought to
the readers’ attention.

Emphasizing again the need for decent care and housing for lab-

 




oratory animals, the January-February report told of the Institute’s.
exhibit at the 119th annual meeting of the American Association for the
Advancement of Science in St. Louis. This exhibit called attention, with
pictures and captions, to the great progress made during the past
century in various ﬁelds: communications, science, medicine, child
welfare, transportation, industry, and asked: “Why so little progress
in laboratory animal welfare?” Six areas especially in nee-d of attention
were listed. Together with the Institute’s recommendations, these are
reprinted on the back page of this report. The January-February report
also carried complete details on the new method of using anesthesia in
the slaughtering of hogs, and was illustrated with a design showing
the process.

Since Great Britain is the nation in which the most intensive study
has been given to the complex problems involved in animal experi—
mentation, the Institute sought ﬁrst-hand information on British prac-
tices as they affect both scientists and animals. Its reports have carried
comprehensive accounts on the manner in which British biologists have
dealt with the controversial and complex problems which arise in
connection with animal experimentation. These included the observa-
tions made by the Institute’s president on a visit to Great Britain and
a letter written by Major C. W. Hume, Director of the Universities
Federation for Animal Welfare which discussed animal experimentation
in Britain. A later Information Report carried an analysis by the Scien-
tiﬁc Sub-Committee of UFAW of the British legislation on laboratory
animals (The Cruelty to Animals Act) with suggestions useful to other
nations. The Laboratory Animals Bureau and the Animal Technicians
Association were described in one issue. These were formed in Great
Britain by scientists for the purpose of achieving more accurate results
through the use of better—bred, healthier, and better cared-for animals.
The Animal Technicians Association, made up‘ of hundreds of the men
and women whose duty it is to care for experimental animals, has
done a great deal to raise the status of this important work and to
improve its quality. The Laboratory Animals Bureau publishes in-
formation concerning the care and procurement of animals for experi-
mental purposes. Excerpts from an excellent paper which appeared in
the Journal of the Animal Technicians Association on water require-
ments of laboratory animals were published in one of the Institute’s
reports. All of these organizations have been helpful in supplying in-
formation to the Institute, and a member of the Institute’s Advisory
Committee was appointed by the Universities Federation for Animal
Welfare to serve as Honorary Secretary for the United States.

Among all the issues relating to animal experimentation which have
been debated for nearly a century in the United States, the current battle
over the procurement of experimental dogs and cats has aroused the

 




 

most widespread controversy and bitterness. Legislation which would
force humane societies to provide animals for painful research has
opened up a whole new ﬁeld for strife and propaganda which did not
ex'ist‘a few years ago. As a result, both the medical profession and the
animal protective cause have suffered from a variety of confused and
frequently erroneousimpressions which have been created in the public
mind. Any solution to the relatively minor problem of procurement
of dogs and cats which reﬂects on the honor and integrity of medicine,
the biological sciences, and the humane movement, means a sacriﬁce
of the basic values of our civilization to a purely utilitarian expediency.
Echoes of this bitter controversy in the United States were heard in
Great Britain where two articles discussing problems relating to the
welfare of laboratory animals, procurement of dogs and cats, and the
position of the Animal Welfare Institute appeared in the May 31 and
August 23, 1952 issues of The Lancet, a leading British medical period-
ical. These articles were reprinted in full in the Institute’s November-
December Report. The Lancet articles pointed out that the Institute
is being attacked both by the anti-vivisectionists because it does not
condemn animal experiments, and by the research scientists because it
does not approve their policy towards animal welfare societies. Ex—
pressing surprise at this opposition to the middle course which the
Institute is following, the Lancet said: “Every country must work out
its own ethics in cases like this; and there is every reason to believe
that individual research workers in America impose on themselves a
code of humane regard for animals every bit as stringent as that ac-
cepted here. Regulations are designed not for well-doers, however, but
for the aberrant; and mankind being what it is, these are as likely
to be found among research scientists as any other group. Dispassionate
consideration of principles should convince our American research col-
leagues that if they are going to insist on freedom for themselves
from restrictions imposed from without they should, in common fair-
ness, insist equally on freedom from similar restrictions for the animal ~
welfare societies. For after all, the broad aim of these societies is iden-
tical with that of medicine—they are merely more catholic in their
choice of the animals they befriend. Moreover, if American scientists
cannot tolerate restrictions imposed from without, they can counter
anti-vivisectionist propaganda in another way—by drawing up their own
code of humane behaviour and requiring members of their scientiﬁc
bodies to conform to it.”

In its November-December Report, the Institute called attention to
the practical solutions which have been reached in Vancouver, BC.
and Louisville, Kentucky, and which depend upon the important dis-
tinction between (1) chronic experiments, in which the animal is alive
and'conscious for varying lengths of time, and (2) non-survival ex—
periments under full anesthesia in which the animal is ﬁrst rendered

 

 

 




 

 

unconscious, then used for any of a variety of scientiﬁc purposes,
and, at the conclusion of the experiment, killed without ever having
been permitted to recover consciousness. If properly conducted, the
second type of experiment is entirely painless; the ﬁrst type may cause
varying degrees of distress and pain.

Bills forcing the surrender of dogs and cats to laboratories make
no distinction between experiments and put no limit on the degree of
suffering that may be inflicted on the animals which they seek to force
the animal shelters to release. Obviously humane organizations are ethi-
cally bound to resist such legislation. They did this successfully during
the past year, and no new seizure laws have been passed.

Additional information on the agreement between Vancouver lab-u
oratories, city pound, and the SPCA was published in the May-June
Report in which the Institute reiterated its belief that an atmosphere
of friendly cooperation and mutual trust is most urgently needed in
order to reach sound solutions to the problems involved in animal ex-

perimentation.

 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

ADVISORY COMMITTEE

Dr. Lee R. Dice, Director Institute of Human Biology, University of Michigan.

Dr. Eric H. Hansen, President, Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
' Cruelty to Animals.

Dr. Robert Gesell, Professor of Physiology, University of Michigan.
Dr; Peter Okkelberg, Emeritus Professor of Zoology and Emeritus Associate Dean of
the Graduate School, University of Michigan.
David Ricardo, Secretary, British Columbia Society for the Prevention of

Cruelty to Animals

OFFICERS

Christine Stevens, President 0 Alfred R. Glancy, Jr., Vice-President
Estella Draper, Secretary 0 Roger L. Stevens, Treas. 0 Helen Hanzlick, Asst. T teas.

 




Recommendations Of The Animal Welfare Institute

 

PERSONNEL Many laboratories now employ untrained, underpaid men, classed
as unskilled workers, who have little interest in caring for animals. As a result, both
animals and research suffer.

AWI Recommends: Sound training of animal technicians, selected for com-
petence and a liking for animals; adequate budget appropriations to insure fair salaries;
a title commensurate with their responsibilities.

Q

* * *

HOUSING Overcrowding of animals is a major problem in modern laboratories.
For example, dogs and cats are often left for months or years with no provisions for
regular exercise, in cages only large enough to permit them to stand, lie and turn;
rabbits are frequently conﬁned to cages too small to allow them to stretch out in their
natural resting position.

AWI Recommends: Intelligent, thoughtful planning of housing, including a
practical study of the natural habits of the animals being used. The size of enclosure
should take into consideration the size of animal involved and the duration of con-
ﬁnement.

* * *

SANITATION AND DISEASE CONTROL Some laboratories, superﬁcially clean,
encourage the spread of disease by failing to sterilize equipment passed from one group
of animals to another and by not isolating sick animals. Other laboratories are actually
ﬁlthy. An attitude of “this is the best we can do” will not stop the spread of disease.

AWI Recommends: An efﬁcient cleaning and sterilizing program by personnel
who understand how communicable diseases spread; adequate heat, light and ventilation;
availability of veterinary advice for all animal colonies; an isolation period for newly
received animals, as well as isolation, treatment or destruction of sick animals.

* * *

MENTAL WELL-BEING Many laboratory animals suffer severely from fear,
loneliness and anxiety. Studies in psychosomatic medicine indicate the importance
of mental states.

AWI Recommends: Kind treament of all animals, adequate space and com-
panionship, and a special effort to keep contented the animals being held for long

periods of time.
* * >l<

PHYSICAL COMFORT Animals of all kinds frequently are deprived of a com-
fortable resting place, are maintained on metal grids, without bedding or resting boards,
and some are kept without water for long periods.

AWI Recommends: The provision of simple comforts for all experimental animals.
* * *

REDUCTION OF PAIN-INFLICTION Thoughtlessness in the planning of ex-
perimentation and teaching results in much unecessary suffering. For example, Why
should nine consecutive experiments be performed by students in practice surgery on
a single dog?

. AWI Recommends: Careful planning of all experimental and teaching prac-
tices with a View to eliminating unnecessary suffering and reducing the number of
animals used; use of non-survival experiments wherever possible; more extensive use
of anesthesia and pain-relieving drugs.

a: :3: *

ALL LABORATORY ANIMALS ARE ENTITLED TO WATER,
FOOD, REST, EXERCISE, COMPANIONSHIP, SANITATION
AND KINDNESS.

 




THIRD ANNUAL REPORT

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
350 Fifth Avenue

New York, New York

 




 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

THIRD ANNUAL REPORT OF THE

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
350 Fifth Avenue, New York 1, New York
(July 1, 1953 to June 30, 1954)

Basic Care of Experimental Animals

The major project undertaken by the Animal Welfare Institute during its
third year was the preparation and distribution of a thirty-six page, illustrated
manual entitled “Basic Care of Experimental Animals” which was designed
for use by the men and women who take care of laboratory animals. Written
in non-technical language, it provides basic information on disease prevention,
feeding, handling, housing, breeding and euthanasia and includes references to
more detailed texts. From the time of its publication in November till the end
of the fiscal year, June 30, 1954, a total of 4,994 copies had been sent on request
to scientific institutions throughout the United States as well as many foreign
countries including Australia, Canada, Czechoslovakia, Finland, Great Britain,
India, Lebanon, Nigeria, the Philippines, Southern Rhodesia and Yugoslavia.
In addition to medical schools, veterinary medical schools, and agricultural
colleges, requests have been received from government and hospital labora-
tories, laboratories engaged in industrial research or the production of pharma-
ceuticals, libraries and foundations. Reviews or notices in “Science” and “Science
Newsletter” and, in England, in “The Courier” of the Universities Federation
for Animal \Velfare, and “The Gazette” of the Institute of Medical Laboratory
Technology were responsible for bringing the manual to the attention of many
scientists and technicians and the Institute is very appreciative of this assistance.

Planning Comfortable Animal Quarters

In addition to disseminating information on good animal care, the Institute
has continued its study of the design and construction of animal quarters and
has provided drawings, reports and references on this subject to a number of

laboratories requesting advice.

The numerous personal visits made by representatives of the Institute to
laboratory animal quarters during the last three years have contributed sub-
stantially to the knowledge necessary for this advisory service. This year they
visited laboratories in six states and the District of Columbia and met with
scientists and animal protective workers in various parts of this country as well
as Canada and England. As in previous years, enormous variations in the kind
of housing and care accorded animals in different institutions were noted, dis-
eased animals in dirty, dark, cramped quarters being accepted as a matter of

 

 




 

course in one institution just as healthy, well-fed animals in roomy, comfortable,
clean quarters are the rule in another.

The Physiological Society’s Guiding Principles

An important step toward raising standards in improperly operated labor-
atories is the “Guiding Principles in the Care and Use of Animals" approved
by the Council of the American Physiological Society, and distributed to all of
its members this winter.

GUIDING PRINCIPLES IN THE CARE AND USE OF ANIMALS
(Approved by the Council of the American Physiological Society)

“Only animals that are lawfully acquired shall be used in this laboratory,
and their retention and use shall be in every case in strict compliance with
state and local laws and regulations.

“Animals in the laboratory must receive every consideration for their bod-
ily comfort; they must be kindly treated, properly fed, and their surroundings
kept in a sanitary condition.

“All major operative procedures must be done under a general anesthetic;
minor operative procedures may be done under local infiltration anesthesia. If
the nature of the study is such as to require that the animal survive, acceptable
technic must be followed throughout the operation on dogs and cats. If the
study does not require survival, the animal must be killed in a humane manner

at the conclusion of the observations.

“The postoperative care of experimental animals shall be such as to min—
imize discomfort during convalescence. All conditions must be maintained for
the animal’s comfort in accordance with the best practices in small animal

hospitals or in accordance with the practices followed in human medicine

and surgery.

“When animals are used by students for their education or the advance-

ment of science such work shall be under the direct supervision of an exper-

 

 

T?“ w;

 




lenced teacher or investigator. The rules for the care of such animals must be
the same as for animals used for research.”

The Schweitzer Medal

In October, the Institute announced the creation of a medal honoring Dr.
Albert Schweitzer, the world-famous physician, minister, musician and writer
who brought modern medical aid to the natives of French Equatorial Africa.
His great moral philosophy of “Reverence for Life” teaches kindness and con-
sideration for animals just as for human beings. The primary purpose of the
Schweitzer medal is to encourage progress in laboratory animal welfare, and
it will be awarded annually in recognition of an outstanding contribution to
the humane treatment of animals. The medal is the work of the sculptor, Gustav
Bohland, and it is pictured on the front and back covers of this annual report.

Dr. Schweitzer wrote in response to a request that the Institute might be
permitted to have the medal struck: “I am profoundly moved that you should
wish to give my name to the medal. I give you this right with all my heart.
I should never have thought that my philosophy, which embodies our com—
passionate attitude toward all creatures, would be noticed and recognized
during my lifetime. I knew that this truth would impose itself one day on
thought, but it is the great and moving surprise of my life that I should be"
the witness of the progress of ethics. Your medal celebrates this progress:
philosOphy obliged to intervene for animals when up until now it has shown

so little interest in them.”

Current News of Animal Welfare

Information Reports were published and distributed by the Institute every
two months, except July and August, to experimental biologists, humane
societies, veterinarians, libraries, and other individuals and groups interested
in science and animal protection. The short articles appearing in this publica-
tion dealt mainly with laboratory animals. Animals used for food also received
considerable attention in relation to the development and application of humane
slaughtering methods. A summary of the material which appeared in last year’s
Information Reports follows after the listing of Conventions and Meetings at—

tended by Institute representatives.

Financial Support

The Animal Welfare Institute’s work is entirely supported by charitable
contributions and membership fees. These latter fees were used exclusively

 

 




 

to payfor the publication of “Basic Care of Experimental Animals” which
has brought information on the humane care of animals into hundreds of labor-
atories. Special gifts by two members made possible the striking of the
Schweitzer Medal.

Contributions to the Animal Welfare Institute are deductible in computing
income tax returns, and donations, large or small, are most gratefully accepted
for the general fund or for special purposes. The extension of the lnstitute’s
much needed work depends upon such support.

Conventions and Meetings

New York State Humane Association, New York City, (September 28, 1953)
Animal Welfare Institute Annual Meeting, New York City, (October 1. 1953)
American Humane Association Convention, Denver, Colo., (October 7-10, 1953)

American Humane Association Committee on Animal Seizure Legislation, Denver,
(October 8, 1953); Cleveland, Ohio (May 21, 1953)

National Dog Welfare Guild, New York City, (February 8, 1954)

Animal Care Panel, Chicago, Illinois, (December 2-3, 1953)

Laboratory Animals Bureau Congress, Shefﬁeld, England, (April 5-6, 1954)
Animal Technicians Association Annual Meeting, Shefﬁeld, England. (April 5, 1954)

Universities Federation for Animal Welfare Congress, London, England,
(April 6-9, 1954)

Midwest Humane Conference, Cleveland, Ohio, (May 2 1-22, 1954)

Summary of Information Reports

The bi—monthly Information Reports issued by the Institute brought to
the attention of readers material on the housing, care, procurement and treat-
ment of laboratory animals. The need for raising standards in all of these
fields, not only for the sake of the animals but also for the sake of scientific

accuracy and for the reduction of unnecessary repetition of experiments, was
shown.

“Some Considerations in Selection and Housing of Experimental Dogs”
was the title of an article in the September-October Report which quoted Dr.
Clive McCay, Professor of Nutrition of the Department of Animal Husbandry
at Cornell University, as saying: “My own belief is that much of the dog re-
search of the past is questionable because of the poor quality of the dogs and
the poor housing of the experimental animals. I am convinced that much of
the medical school research with animals must ultimately be done on farms
because the cost of land, buildings and labor makes good care and housing very
difﬁcult in congested cities.” Dr. Alastair N. Worden, Editor of the “Univer—
sities Federation for Animal Welfare Handbook on the Care and Management
of Laboratory Animals,” was quoted as follows: “In addition to the human—
itarian aspects, it does seem to me that, from the experimental point of view,




:rc—Q»

35:15:

the advantages of animals bred in the laboratories are overwhelming. In-
fection is one point, adaptation to prevailing conditions is another, and yet a
third is the known nature of the material with which one is working.”

The need for a thorough knowledge of the physical condition, his-
tory and heredity of experimental animals was discussed at the 1953 Ani-
mal Care Panel in Chicago and reported in the November—December Report. A
series of papers was presented on controlling the genetic background of labora-
tory animals, and a report was made on the activities of the new institute of
Animal Resources of the National Research Council, headed by the geneticist,
Dr. 0. N. Eaton. One of the organization’s speciﬁc objectives is the improve-
ment of conditions pertaining to the rearing and shipment of animals.

The importance of competent and well-trained personnel with a
natural liking for animals to work in laboratory animal quarters was emph-
asized in the March-April Report which gave a ﬁrst-hand account of the Labor—
atory Animals Bureau Congress and the annual meeting of the Animal Technic—
ians Association in England. The Syllabi for Associateship and Fellowship EX-
aminations for Animal Technicians were reprinted in this Information Report
and show the impressive amount of knowledge and skill developed by the men
and women who care for experimental animals in Great Britain. The Report
stated: “No American who has visited any considerable number of laboratory
animal colonies in this country would fail to be impressed, even astounded, by
the individual and collective calibre of the British Animal Technicians. The first-
rate personnel whose careful selection and training in some American labora-
tories has led to sound and humane animal care need take no offense at this.
But the fact must be faced that far too large a proportion of their fellows in
other laboratories are men whose mental and moral shortcomings, sometimes
very serious in themselves, are aggravated by the lack of training and the lack
of respect which is often their lot. Some American scientists contribute to this
unfortunate situation while others merely suffer from it . . . Too often, there is
a sharp dividing line to be found where what is thought to be janitor’s work
ends, and where science in the form of an experimental procedure begins.
The welfare of the animals involved is thus entirely overlooked. Recognizing
this, an American biologist ruefully remarked after a tour of a crowded dog
room in his institution: ‘What we need is people to take care of the animals,
not just to take care of the cages.’ ” The answer to this problem is clearly shown
in a quotation from Mr. A. E. Mundy, Hon. Secretary of the Animal Tech-
nicians Association: “\Vhat the nurse is to the hospital patient, the animal

technician is to the laboratory animal. He has a further duty, to record metic-

 

 




 

ulously all abnormal symptoms observed in the animals under his care and to

report them appropriately.”

Three exampIes of exceIIent housing for experimental dogs were cited
in the May—June Report: The Merck Institute for Therapeutic Research at Rah-
way, New Jersey, the Argonne National Laboratories at Lemont. lllinois and
the Radiobiology Lab-oratory of the College of Medicine of the University of
Utah. Outside runways connecting by means of self-operating doors with
roomy inside kennels are featured in all. The breeding of Beagles for use in
chronic experiments is practiced in these institutions. The Report states:
“The experimental work in all three institutions referred to requires the use
from time to time of metal metabolism cages, but dogs are not perpetually con—
fined to these cages. After the testing period is over, it is usual for them to re—
turn to the far less restrictive and more comfortable and pleasant kennel-
runways where, after their period of solitary confinement, they may again
share a kennel-runway section with some of the same individuals they were
raised with. At the Merck Institute, resting boards are supplied in all metab—
olism cages where such provision is possible.”

“Retrogression in Laboratory Animal Housing” was the title of an arti—
cle in the November—December Report. It described two new res ?arch buildings
which had cost millions of. dollars and which contained animal quarters markedly
inferior to those built in former years by the same institutions. In both new
buildings, dogs are conﬁned to a single window—less room, ﬁlled as full as pos—
sible with metal cages; they also lack outside runways or exercise pens of any
kind. The Report stated that the current over-emphasis on efficiency and mass
production appears to be partially to blame for the construction of such sin-
gularly unpleasant animal quarters at such high construction cost. In another
part of the same issue, attention was focussed on the dangers of the “One—
1ninute—one-inch-one—cent—saving approach to animal colony management. No
one can deny the value of a proper regard for efﬁciency and economy in the man-
agement of any undertaking. Efﬁciency and economy are not, however, ends in
themselves, and have no value unless they help to forward the basic objective to
which they are being applied. If permitted to become ends in themselves. they

can act as positive obstacles to those basic objectives." The article indicated

that on occasion “the real aim of research was being forgotten and another quite
different goal being substituted: that of trying to keep the largest number of

animals in the smallest possible space, with the least possible care, on the cheap-

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

est possible rations. Such an objective not only conflicts sharply with ethical
considerations in the conduct of research using animals but is incompatible
with biological research of the highest quality.” This and other Information
Reports offered Animal Welfare Institute consultation on the planning of new

animal quarters.

An interesting article on animaI house management was contributed to
the N ovember—December Report by Dr. Patricia P. Scott, who teaches physiol-
ogy and holds the position of Curator of the Animal Unit at the Royal Free Hos-
pital School of Medicine in London. The Curator system was described in the
article which also gave information on administration and staffing and the daily
routine work of the Animal House Unit. It is well worth a thorough reading by
anyone resprmsible for experimental animals.

The Commissioners’ Orders adopted in the District of Columbia
were discussed in detail in the January—February Report which also carried an
account of testimony presented at the Hearing including the text of the state-
ment by the President of the Institute. The following evaluation was made in
the Report: “On February 23, 1954 the Commissioners adopted two Orders,
one making animals from the District Pound available to laboratories, and the
other setting up standards on their use and care. It is regrettable that the pro—
curement provisions suggested above were not adopted (i.e. that the use of im-
pounded animals should be limited to non—survival experiments in which the an-
imal is ﬁrst fully anesthetized and is killed without recovering consciousness) ;
nevertheless. the Commissioners have shown in the second of these Orders that
they understand the pressing need for protection of laboratory‘animals. The pro-
visions which they have made, although incomplete, deserve respectful recogni-
tion as one of the few thoughtful efforts ever made by public ofﬁcials in the
United States to deal with the problem of humane treatment of laboratory ani-
mals.” Animals in the custody of humane societies are not liable to requisition by
Washington laboratories. However, in Illinois, where legislation was passed in
1951 relating to the procurement of impounded dogs for experiments, the
amendment exempting humane societies from requisition was re-amended with—
out the knowledge of animal protective workers or pet owners. The National
Society for Medical Research showed no embarrassment in claiming this leg—
islative maneuver as a victory. The text of the new amendment was given in
the May-June Report. Delegates to the convention of the American Humane
Association reafﬁrmed their opposition to animal seizure legislation, pledging
themselves to oppose it in a firm, reasonable and efﬁcient manner with a View

 

 

 




 

to preventing its passage and to discouraging its introduction in any future
year. This resolutionappeared in full in the September—October Report. The
humane society representatives base their stand on moral principle. Their

shelters were erected to protect animals. To send the animals they have taken
into their custody to a laboratory for use in a painful experiment would com—
pletely undermine the ethical basis upon which all humane work is founded.

Progress in eliminating pain and fear from the slaughter of hogs
was reported in the January-February and May-June Reports which describe
the work underway at the Iowa State College of Agriculture and Mechanic Arts
at Ames, Iowa, where a simplified device for anesthetizing hogs with carbon
dioxide gas prior to slaughter is being tested. The new Danish regulations re-
quiring the anesthetization of animals prior to slaughter were also published.
To date, however, the George A. Hormel Company of Austin, )t‘linnesota is
the only American meat packing company which anesthetizes all of its hogs.
It is to be hoped that others will follow its example within the coming year.

 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

Advisory Committee

Dr. Lee R. Dice, Director Institute of Human Biology, University of Michigan

Dr. Eric H. Hansen, President, Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals.

Dr. Peter Okkelberg, Emeritus Professor of Zoology and Emeritus Associate Dean of
the Graduate School, University of Michigan.

David Ricardo, Secretary, British Columbia Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals.

OFFICERS

Christine Stevens, President 0 Alfred R. Glancy, Jr., Vice-President

Estella Draper, Executive Secretary 0 Roger L. Stevens, Treas.

Helen Hanzlick, Asst. Treas.

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 




 




FOURTH ANNUAL REPORT

Dr. Albert Schweitzer with Animal Welfare Institute Medal
created in his honor.

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
350 Fifth Avenue
New York, New York

 




 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

FOURTH ANNUAL REPORT OF THE

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
350 Fifth Avenue, New York 1, New York
(July 1, 1954 to June 30, 1955)

Publications

A loose—leaf book containing a collection of floor plans, construction details, and
equipment, and entitled ”Comfortable Quarters for Laboratory Animals,” was pre-
pared by the Animal Welfare Institute for use by institutions planning to remodel or
re-equip existing animal quarters or to build new ones. During the course of the
year, free copies have been provided, on request, to medical colleges, hospitals, gov-
ernment and commercial laboratories, libraries and architectural and construction
firms engaged in designing animal quarters. Requests for this publication have
come from 35 states, five Canadian provinces, Hawaii, the Canal Zone, the District
of Columbia and the following foreign countries: Australia, England, Finland,
Germany, India, Italy, Lebanon, Mexico, the Netherlands, Switzerland and Yugo-
slavia.

The loose-leaf form was adopted so that supplements could be provided from
time to time as new ideas are presented for quarters which are comfortable and not
too restrictive for the animals and which are easy to maintain. "Comfortable Quarters
for Laboratory Animals” ﬁrst appeared in September, 1954, and a supplement was
mailed out in January, 1955 to all who had received the original publication. Re-
views in ”Modern Hospital” and ”American Society for Professional Biologists
News” were helpful in bringing it to the attention of interested persons. The Insti-
tute also wishes to acknowledge the assistance of "The American Journal of Medical
Technology, and ”Modern Hospital” in publicizing ”Basic Care of Experimental
Animals”, a companion manual published in 1953 by the Institute, which gives in-
formation on disease prevention and the proper feeding, handling, housing, breed-
ing and euthanasia of laboratory animals. Visits to laboratories have been valuable
in compiling information for these publications, and during the past year Animal
\Welfare Institute representatives have visited laboratories in California, the District
of Columbia, Florida, Georgia, Kentucky, Michigan and New York.

The first Animal Welfare Institute publication designed for use in primary and
secondary schools has been in preparation throughout the course of the past year.
”First Aid and Care of Small Animals” by Ernest P. Walker, Assistant Director of
the National Zoological Park, Smithsonian Institution, will be a 48-page booklet con-
taining 26 illustrations. Mr. Walker is a distinguished zoologist with a sympathetic
understanding of the needs and desires of a wide variety of animals and with long
experience with wild creatures both in their native habitats and in captivity. His text
and photographs are outstanding. All primary and secondary school teachers may
obtain one free copy of the booklet by writing the Institute.

 




The bi—monthly Information Reports of the Institute were distributed through-
out the year (except July and August) to all members of the American Federation
of Societies for Experimental Biology, to humane societies, libraries in major cities,
and institutions of higher learning, and to numerous medical, veterinary medical and
other scientific groups and individuals. A summary of these Information Reports is
to be found elsewhere in this annual report.

The Schweitzer Medal

On November 3, 1954 a gold replica of the medal created in his honor by the
Animal Welfare Institute was presented to Dr. Albert Schweitzer. Dr. Charles R.
Joy made 'the presentation in Oslo where Dr. Schweitzer had gone to receive the
Nobel Prize for Peace. Mrs. Erica Anderson, whose recent book ”The World of Al-
bert Schweitzer” contains many of her beautiful photographs, took pictures of the
ceremony, one of which appears on the cover of this annual report.

At the annual meeting of the American Association for the Avancement of
Science in Berkeley, California this winter, the medal was displayed in an Animal
Welfare Institute booth exhibit. It was ﬂanked by pictures of Dr. Schweitzer in his
hospital in Lambaréné, French Equatorial Africa, with various animal companions,

and by quotations from his writings emphasizing his belief that ”We need a bound-
less ethics which will include the animals also.”

Nomination forms were available at the booth and were also mailed to all read-
ers of the Information Report in order to give each one an opportunity to suggest
the name of the person whom they considered worthy to receive the ﬁrst Schweitzer
Medal. Announcement that the medal is to be awarded on September 8, 1955 at
Michigan State University in East Lansing in conjunction with the meetings of the

American Institute of Biological Sciences was made in the May-June Information
Report.

Humane Slaughter

There are three practical, humane methods of rendering animals unconscious
before suspending them bya chain around one hind leg and cutting their throats.
Therefore no reasonable excuse exists for continuing to carry out this cruel practice
on conscious animals. The majority of hogs, calves, sheep and lambs in this country
are still killed by this antiquated method. The usual method of stunning cattle fre-

quently requires that the slaughterman administer blow after blow of the hammer
before the animal falls.

A carbon dioxide chamber, electrical stunning tongs, or captive bolt pistol should
be used in every slaughterhouse.

The Animal Welfare Institute has sought, by means of articles published in its

 

 

 

 

 

 




Information Reports and through correspondence with packers and others, to stimu-
late interest in the use of humane slaughtering devices. An appeal for funds for the
purchase of such equipment was made in February of this year, and an electrical
stunner of English manufacture was sent to Michigan State University for testing.
The Institute is indebted to ”Science” for publishing an announcement on this sub-
ject. It is likewise indebted to the Christian Science Monitor for its June 13, 1955
editorial on the need for humane slaughter, later reprinted in numerous other news-
papers, and to the many members and friends of the Institute and of other animal
protective societies who have written letters to newspapers on the subject.

The federal humane slaughter bills introduced by Senator Humphrey and Rep-
presentative Martha Grifﬁths at the request of the American Humane Association
failed to come to a hearing in this session of Congress. All humanitarians need to
work together to eliminate the large-scale, routine cruelty in slaughterhouses which
has been proved to be completely unnecessary by the nine European democracies
which prohibit the killing of food animals without preliminary stunning.

Conventions, Meetings and Exhibitions

Animal Welfare Institute Auxiliary Meeting, Toledo, Ohio, September 22, 1954
Federation of Pennsylvania Humane Societies, Wilkes-Barre, Penna. Sept. 24, 1954
Animal Welfare Institute annual meeting, New York City, Oct. 15, 1954

American Humane Association convention, Atlanta, Ga., Oct. 25—28, 1954

Tri-State Federation of Humane Societies, Washington, D.C., Nov. 28, 1954

Animal Care Panel, Chicago, 111., Dec. 1-2, 1954

American Association for Advancement of Science, Berkeley, Calif., Dec. 26-31, 1954
A.H.A. Advisory Committee, Denver, Colo., March 4-5, 1955

Sports and Vacation Show, New York City, March 5-13, 1955

Universities Federation for Animal Welfare Executive Committee meeting, London,

England, April 15, 1955

Summary of Information Reports

The Information Reports of the Institute continued to stress the need for rais-
ing standards in the housing, care and treatment of laboratory animals for the sake
of the animals and also for the sake of scientiﬁc accuracy.

The necessity of improving transportation conditions for the hun-
dreds of thousands of monkeys used annually in research in this country, a
number which is increasing astronomically due to the production of polio vaccine,
was stressed. Two eye-witness reports of monkey shipments from India arriving at
Idlewild Airport, New York, which appeared in the January-February Report, told
of unnecessary cruelty—overcrowding, rough handling, ﬁlthy containers, inadequate

 




 

feeding, shipment of pregnant females and nursing mothers. The Institute urged
that animals being sacriﬁced for human beneﬁt be treated at least as well as, if not
better than, animals being sent to zoos and to individual private owners, and sug-
gested that a part of the money so generously donated by the American public might
very properly be spent in reducing the wholly unnecessary suffering now being in-
flicted on monkeys used for polio research and vaccine production.

The March—April Report listed various steps taken to improve conditions of
monkey shipments. At the request of ofﬁcials of the Bureau of Customs (which is
responsible for the enforcement of Public Law #72 making it a criminal offense
to import animals or birds into this country under inhumane or unhealthful condi-
tions), the Institute submitted recommendations on proper shipping conditions for
monkeys and on April 13, a new order on the subject of inhumane or unhealthful
shipments of animals was issued to all Customs Inspectors in the New York area.
The Government of India, on March 10, placed an embargo on the export of mon—
keys, which was lifted April 5 following assurances by the National Foundation for
Infantile Paralysis that there would be greater safeguards for monkeys during their
ﬂight to the United States.

Four papers on the proper care of monkeys in captivity were presented at the
1954 Animal Care Panel, held December 1 and 2 at Northwestern University, Chi~
cago, and reported in the January-February issue. Dr. H. L. Ratcliffe of the Phila-
delphia Zoological Garden emphasized the need for more space and exercise, and
illustrated his talk with slides showing the relative atrophy of the adrenal cortex in
monkeys which had been conﬁned to small laboratory cages or to small shipping
crates during the course of a long, sea voyage. Dr. Albert V. Hardy of the Florida
State Board of Health, who was asked to assist in reducing disease in monkeys at
Okatie Farms, headquarters for monkeys purchased by the National Foundation for
Infantile Paralysis, reported that enteric infections and pneumonia are the chief
problems, and the mortality of the monkeys is a serious economic problem. Dr. Hardy
said, ”As a measure of economy, more could be invested by the Foundation in hav-

ing qualiﬁed medical care of the animals .. . much more could be done and should
be done.”

Another highlight of the Animal Care Panel was a ﬁlm showing the housing,
feeding and care of experimental animals at the National Institute for Medical Re-
search at Mill Hill, England. The commentary was given by Mr. D. J. Short, chair-
man of the Animal Technicians Association, who supervises the work of a large

group of animal technicians there and is himself especially gifted in gentle and skill-
ful animal handling.

The importance of gentleness and kindness when handling animals
was also emphasized in a speech entitled “Farm Animals Need Love and Care”, re-
printed in the May-June Report. The speech was given by Dr. W. N. MCMillen, Di-
rector of Nutrition of the A. E. Staley Manufacturing Company, who has had wide
experience with both farm and laboratory animals. He gave numerous striking ex—
amples of the material beneﬁts accruing to people who are friendly and considerate

 




in caring for animals of all kinds, from mice to cattle, and spoke against the tend-
ency to make livestock production a mechanical assembly-line business.

Humane education for medical students Was the subject of an article in
the September-October Report. An excerpt was printed from a recently published
treatise for students of human physiology at the University of British Columbia Med—
ical College, which emphasizes humane handling of animals prior to anesthetization
and requires that animals must be killed while still anesthetized and unconscious and
that animals must be dead before disposal. Recognizing the importance of proper use
of animals in medical teaching and research, it states: ”Use of these animals is a privi-
lege involving the same responsibilities as are involved in the case of patients in the
teaching wards of the hospital.” The treatise also refers to the cooperative agree-
ment entered into in 1951 between the University of British Columbia and the Van-
couver Branch of the British Columbia SPCA intended to serve two major purposes:
(1) to advance the welfare of laboratory animals and prevent cruelty to them and
(2) to provide for painless experiments (under full anesthesia from which they are
not permitted to recover) dogs which would otherwise be destroyed at the City Pound.
(The agreement was described and the principles agreed to by the University were
published in Information Report Volume 2:3.)

Two examples of excellent housing for large experimental animals
were cited in the September-October and November-December Reports. At the Na-
tional Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland, the new quarters which provide
ﬁne outdoor exercise facilities, the opportunity for companionship, efﬁciency in clean-
ing and maintenance, and good ventilation are well worth a visit by persons plan-
ning new accommodations for experimental animals. Groups of monkeys have large,
light rooms with radiant-heated ﬂoors and wooden benches; self-operating doors
lead to outdoor exercise pens, half of which are roofed over with wire glass, the other
half being open except for fencing. In the animal hospital section, dogs, goats and
hogs have inside kennels connecting directly with outside runways; the kennels are
5 x 10 feet, the runways 16 and 25 feet long x 5 feet wide. In that part of the new
building designed for housing dogs on long-term experiments, 25-foot runways have
been provided for each kennel.

The second example cited was Emory University School of Medicine, Atlanta,
Georgia, where a new building for large animals provides roomy indoor kennels
connecting directly with outdoor runways to which the animals may go at will. The
kennels will be provided with resting boards for the comfort of the dogs and mon-
keys to be housed. Plans of the new animal house at Emory are available for distri-
bution as a part of the loose-leaf publication ”Comfortable Quarters for Laboratory
Animals.”

An article of interest to those who work with laboratory rats was contained in
the September-October Report. Excerpts were given from an article entitled ”An
Experiment to Show the Effect of Strong Light on Lactating Female Rats” (Journal
of the ATA, Vol. IV, No. 3) by R. T. Charles of the Radiobiological Research
Unit, M.R.C., A.E.R.E., Harwell, Berks. Mr. Charles said that the mortality rate,
which was 80% for young pups being born and raised in wire cages on grid ﬂoors
in a brightly lighted room, was reduced to less than 1% when sawdust was substi-

 

 




 

tuted for grid ﬂoors, some privacy was provided, and the rat-room kept in semi-
darkness. A comment on Mr. Charles’ report, conﬁrming the detrimental effect of
strong light and the desirability of providing nest boxes for rats, was made by
Patricia Woodhead, Pharmacology Department, British Schering Research Institute,
Alderly Edge, Cheshire (ATA Journal Vol. V, No. 1). An excerpt of Miss Wood—
head’s comments also appeared in the September-October Report.

An evaluation of the ritish Law governing animal experimenta-
tion was the subject ofza,§aper.quoted in the November-December Report; the au-
thor was Dr. William Lane-Fetter, who is well known to British scientists as the Di-
rector of the Laboratory Animals Bureau, an organization which has made great pro-
gress in providing better-bred, healthier and better-cared-for animals for laboratory
use. Dr. Lane-Petter stated that the British law, passed in 1876, provides for a system
of personal licensing for those who wish to experiment on living vertebrate animals
and of registration of premises where such experiments, are conducted. It also pro-
vides for inspection by government inspectors. Dr. Lane-Petter said, ”On the whole,
the act has been a good one, despite certain clumsy administrative points. If it has,
through the machinery of licensing, added a paper burden to the scientist, it has also
held an umbrella over his head . . . Has the Act, which places a powerful veto in the
hands of a government department, hindered scientiﬁc advance? Practically all who
have worked under the Act would answer no. At the worst it has been a nuisance,
but rather in the sense of having to pay an insurance premium. At the best, it has
given effect to that principle ﬁrst put forward by scientists themselves, that there
are limits to the legitimacy of painful experiments on animals.”

Continued opposition of the humane movement to animal seizure
hills which seek to compel humane societies to abandon ethical principles by turn-
ing over animals to laboratories for use in painful experimentation was voiced by
the delegates to the 1954 annual convention of the American Humane Association,
and reported in the November-December issue. Delegates to the convention again
expressed themselves strongly in opposition to animal seizure legislation, and elected
as directors three extremely well qualiﬁed humanitarians who expressed unequivocal
opposition to such legislation.

The increasing demand for humane methods of slaughter was also
discussed at the AHA. convention, and reported in the November-December issue.
Many delegates to the convention were shocked to learn that in the ﬁeld of humane
slaughter, the United States is far behind England, Scotland, Northern Ireland, New
Zealand, Holland, Switzerland, Finland, Norway, Denmark and Sweden. In all of
these countries, the law requires that animals be humanely killed. A ﬁlm depicting
the present cruel method used for slaughtering hogs in the majority of abattoirs on
this continent was shown the delegates, and addresses were given on the problems
relating to the advancement of humane slaughter in this country.

Developments in the humane slaughter movement in various parts of the coun-
try were listed in the January-February Report. In the March-April Report, the intro-
iroduction of a federal bill by Senator Humphrey of Minnesota was announced. In
introducing his bill, which would require the use of humane methods in the slaughter

 

 

ll.)

 




 

 

u.)

 

of livestock and poultry in interstate or foreign commerce, Senator Humphrey urged
our slaughter industry to start to reach European standards at once, and eventually
to lead the nations of the world in humane, non-cruel slaughtering.

An important aid to humane slaughter invented at a Missouri packing-house
was announced in the March-April Report. The new method, devised at the Seitz
Packing Company, St. Joseph, Missouri, is an example of American inventive talent
at its best: simple, inexpensive, practical and humane. For many years the captive
bolt pistol has proved itself a perfect agent for causing instantaneous unconscious-
ness in the animal on which it is used. However, it is necessary for the operator to
to be able to take careful aim and for this purpose a quiet animal is needed. The
Seitz Company has solved the problem of keeping cattle still without holding devices
by the use of ﬂood lights. A speech by the President of the Company, describing
the process, was reprinted in the March-April Report.

Further news of humane slaughter, including the introduction by Martha Grif-
fiths of a companion bill in the United States House of Representatives, was con-
tained in the May-June Report. The report also announced the installation by Hormel
& Co., in its Fremont, Nebraska, plant, of equipment by which hogs are anesthetized
with CO-2 before slaughter. This method, which was invented and ﬁrst used at
Horme‘l’s main plant in Austin, Minnesota and which was described and illustrated
in Information Report Volume 2-1 was highly praised by Senator Humphrey at the
time he introduced his federal bill. V

The AIbert Schweitzer Medal, to be awarded annually with $500 in rec-
ognition of an outstanding contribution by a research scientist to the reduction of
laboratory animal suffering, was pictured and announced in the November-December
Report and further announcements were carried in the January-February and May-
June Reports.

A growing animal-protective and chiIdi-protective problem, over
which humanitarians have become increasingly concerned in recent years, was the
subject of an article in the May-June Report. It is the widespread use of animals for
experimentation in elementary and high schools, and by high school students in their
homes. Encouraged by donors of national science contest prizes and others, youths
of high school age engage in activities which are cruel to animals as well as detri-
mental to their own character. Even younger children take part in nutrition "experi-
ments” encouraged by several manuals and publications issued by other groups.

The report gave the opinion of a clinical and consulting psychologist and psycho-
therapist, Dr. Portia Hamilton, concerning the effects of such activities on children,
pointing out the dangers of exposing them to such projects and warning against the
possibility of increasing the child’s natural hostilities or aggressive tendencies and
effectively laying the basis for sadistic behavior. The Report reprinted an excellent

 




 

column by Dorothy Thompson on this subject entitled ”Children’s ‘Experiments’
with Animals Condemned” in which she stated: “What is being done in the class-
rooms is not scientiﬁc experimentation and it adds nothing to knowledge. The teach-
ers know in advance the results of the mistreatment and so will many intelligent
children. It is, therefore, systematic training in cruelty and indifference to suffer-
ing . . . Anything which encourages cruelty and indifference in the young is evil and
profoundly anti-educational. It is bringing up the child in the way he should not
go. It is demonstrating to him that it is all right to mistreat nonhuman living crea-
tures, if the mistreatment contributes to his own welLbeing. The logical deduction
is that it’s all right to mistreat humans, too, if it furthers one’s own interest. . .

An exhibition of traps designed to kill animals instantly rather than
to hold them by one paw in a cruel, crushing grip was held at the Sports and Vaca-
tion Show in New York City and reported in the May-June issue.

 

 

 

Contributions to the Animal Welfare Institute are deductible in computing in-
come tax returns, and donations, large or small, are most gratefully accepted for

the general fund or for special purposes. The extension of the Institute’s much‘

needed work depends upon such support.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
Advisory Committee

Dr. Lee R. Dice, Director Institute of Human Biology, University of Michigan

Dr. Peter Okkelberg, Emeritus Professor of Zoology and Emeritus Associate Dean of
the Graduate School, University of Michigan

David Ricardo, Medical Liaison Committee, British Columbia Society for the
Prevention of Cruelty to Animals

OFFICERS
Christine Stevens, President 0 Alfred R. Glancy, Jr., Vice-President
Estella Draper, Executive Secretary 0 Roger L. Stevens, Treas.

Mary M. Richards, Asst. Treas.

«Rm,— _.— . .‘M—

 

 

k—r

 




 

 

 

 




 




FIFTH ANNUAL REPORT

Illustration from “First Aid and Care of Small Animals”

.rvNIMAL WELFARﬁ IN'NTITUT
270 Park Avenue

New York. 17, New York

 




 

COVER PICTURE BY INTERNATIONAL NEWS PHOTOS

 

 

 

 

 

 

Pub]

Anirr
schoc
sellor
given
of th
by th
Hum
Hygi‘
111 A
concl
vertel

Natic
invite
pleas‘
givin
the I

were
perso
mals.
Audt
the o
Maga
and ]

4

manu
“Con
sciem
high

nor a
stitub
into “




FIFTH ANNUAL REPORT OF THE
ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
270 Park Avenue, New York 17, New York
(July 1, 1955 to June 30, 1956)

Publications

Nearly 15,000 copies of "First Aid and Care of Small Animals”, the ﬁrst
Animal Welfare Institute publication designed for use in primary and secondary
schools, have been sent out during the year to teachers, scout leaders, camp coun-
sellors, and others who requested copies. Persons desiring copies for teaching are
given one free. The 48-page manual, written by Ernest P. Walker, Assistant Director
of the National Zoological Park, Smithsonian Institution, is illustrated with pictures
by the author and other photographers and has short chapters entitled: Developing
Humane Attitudes, Learning with Free Wild Animals, Teaching Nutrition and
Hygiene, First Aid for Wild Animals, Rehabilitating Wild Animals, Injured or
Ill Animals, Final Disposition of Animals, Housing, Observations on Feeding. It
concludes with sections on Mammals, Birds, Reptiles, Amphibians, Fish and In-
vertebrates, with a ﬁnal chapter on food cultures and a comprehensive bibliography.

Eight thousand copies of a leaﬂet describing the handbook were given the
National Science Teachers Association for mailing to their members who were
invited to ﬁll in a coupon to obtain a free copy. Ofﬁcers of the Institute were
pleased to learn that the Association’s Evaluation Committee was unanimous in
giving it the top rating for literature made available to science teachers through
the Association.

Thanks are due to a number of publications whose announcements or reviews
were helpful in calling "First Aid and Care of Small Animals” to the attention of
persons who could put it to good use in educating young people and helping ani-
mals. These include: New York Herald Tribune, Girl Scout Leader, Compact,
Audubon Magazine, Audubon Junior News, Educators Index of Free Materials,
the ofﬁcial publicatiOn of the Michigan Department of Public Instruction, Nature
Magazine, the New York State Bulletin to the Schools, Florida State School Bulletin
and News Letter of the Wisconsin State Department of Public Instruction.

The Animal Welfare Institute continues to receive numerous requests for the
manuals published in 1953 and 1954, ”Basic Care of Experimental Animals” and
"Comfortable Quarters for Laboratory Animals”, which are sent without charge to
scientists or others connected with scientiﬁc laboratories. They are not available to
high school students who contemplate experimenting on animals in their homes
nor are they available for use in teaching below the college level, because the In-
stitute is ﬁrmly opposed to the current efforts to introduce cruel animal experiments
into primary and secondary education.

 




 

 

 

The bi-monthly Information Reports of the Institute were distributed through-
out the year (except July and August) to all members of the American Federation
of Societies for Experimental Biology, to humane societies, libraries in major cities,
and institutions of higher learning, and to numerous medical, veterinary medical
and other scientiﬁc groups and individuals. A summary of these Information Re-
ports is to be found elsewhere in this annual report.

Film

A practical and humane ﬁlm, ”Handling Laboratory Animals", was produced
this year in cooperation with the National Institute of Medical Research, London,
England, by MacQueen Films. Through the generous subsidy of a member of the
Animal Welfare Institute, it was possible to make this ﬁlm available to laboratories
throughout the United States and Canada for the nominal charge of $3 per week
rental or purchase for $65 with free preview. Requests for showings have been
received from laboratories in Alabama, Arizona, California, Colorado, Connecticut,
Delaware, District of Columbia, Florida, Georgia, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kansas,
Louisiana, Maryland, Massachusetts, Michigan, Minnesota, Mississippi, Missouri,
Nebraska, New Jersey, New York, North Carolina, Ohio, Oregon, Pennsylvania,
South Carolina, South Dakota, Tennessee, Texas, Vermont, Virginia, Utah and
Wisconsin.

The ﬁlm was announced at the Animal Welfare Institute booth exhibit at the
annual Exposition of Science and Industry of the American Association for the
Advancement of Science in Atlanta, December 27-30, described in the Informa-
tion Report of the Institute and advertised in “Science”. It is a black and white
16 mm. sound ﬁlm running 20 minutes and showing skillful and humane handling
by Mr. D. J. Short, Chief Animal Technician at the National Institute for Medical
Research, of twelve common species of laboratory animals.

Cruel Experiments by Grade School and High School Students

Medical research societies and others are promoting cruel experiments on
animals by elementary and secondary school students. This promotion represents
a particularly vicious form of the propaganda effort to make the public unreservedly
accept unlimited animal experimentation. Not only do the animals suffer and to
no purpose, but the children are deliberately instructed in the inﬂiction of un-
deserved pain on defenseless creatures in their power. It would be difﬁcult to
think of any more anti-educational procedure than this. The Animal Welfare
Institute has protested against it repeatedly throughout the past year.

A visit to the United States Commissioner of Education resulted in a sympathetiC
hearing and a recommendation to work with State ofﬁcials. Accordingly, copies of
Information Reports telling of the dangers implicit in the teaching of cruelty in
the guise of science were sent to educational administrators, together with a COPY
of “First Aid and Care of Small Animals”. This manual gives a positive approach
to humane and scientiﬁc teaching about animals. It speciﬁcally discourages the idea
of depriving animals of a proper diet as a means of teaching nutrition. The cor-

 

W

 




D—

.-
V.

'DWUIQ

i—nuq (D

U‘QC/JH

(D U

WHVHH‘D

 

W

 

 

 

respondence with educators proved very helpful, and it is interesting to note that
not one letter received expressed approval of such experiments in schools.

The head of the National Cancer Institute, on the other hand, feels it would
”brighten up the classroom” to have mice and chicks dying of cancer before the
eyes of the students. A complete series of experiments, including the removal of
pieces of skin 1” x 2” from the backs of mice and the attempt to graft these pieces
to other mice, is suggested for high school students by employees of the tax-
supported National Cancer Institute. The Animal Welfare Institute considers this
action to be against the public interest.

The Westinghouse Corporation, which offers substantial cash prizes for scien-
tiﬁc projects by high school students, has not yet agreed to exclude cruel animal
experiments from entry, even though no top award has ever been given for such
an experiment.

It is to be hoped that in our next annual report we shall be able to state that
this cynical abuse of young people and animals for propaganda purposes will have
been stopped and more humane, intelligent and effective teaching methods substituted.

Schweitzer Medal

The ﬁrst Albert Schweitzer medal was awarded September 8, 1955 to Dr.
Robert C. Bay, veterinarian in charge of a colony of hundreds of beagles at the
Atomic Energy Commission laboratory at the University of Utah. Dr. Bay’s devo-
tion to these dogs, their health and well-being, was outstanding, and he was active
in improving conditions for animals in other laboratories and in advocating humane
methods of slaughter of food animals. Dean-emeritus Edward H. Kraus of the
College of Literature, Science and the Arts of the University of Michigan made
the award. Dr. Lee R. Dice, Director of the Institute of Human Biology, University
of Michigan, presided at the ceremony, and an address was given by Dr. Edwin
Ellis on humane slaughter research at Michigan State University.

Sharp conﬂict with anti-humane forces made the circumstances surrOunding
the award ceremony unexpectedly dramatic. The Animal Welfare Institute was
forbidden to present its booth display arranged for showing at the American In-
stitute of Biological Sciences meetings, in connection with which the Schweitzer
Award ceremony had been planned, because the representative of the Physiological
Society threatened withdrawal of the Society from the AIBS if the AWI booth were
permitted to appear. Those who are interested in the full details of “this extra-
ordinary censorship and hostility are referred to Information Report, Vol. 5, No. 3
which contains the savage and highly inaccurate attack upon the AWI by the
National Society for Medical Research.

Far more serious than this organizational combat, however, was its counterpart
in the laboratory Where Dr. Bay worked. Callousness and cruelty invaded an insti-
tution which the AWI had observed to be a; model of humaneness. Dr. Bay
struggled with the enforced overcrowding-of «the ﬁne kennels. Other problems
developed aﬁecting adversely the animals in his’ charge. The laboratory had long

 




 

 

 

 

had a policy of painlessly destroying any animal whose illness was becoming
painful. When this policy was weakened so gravely that Dr. Bay was refused the
right to destroy an animal which had developed 27 fractures and severe ulceration
as a result of the experimental radiations, he resigned.

Dr. Schweitzer himself has described the protection of animals as a battle.
Dr. Bay fought his battle honorably. He refused to condone unnecessary suffering.
He set an example which will not soon be forgotten.

Humane Slaughter

A tremendous forward step in the drive toward universal adoption of humane
slaughtering methods in this country was taken as the result of the introduction
in Congress of three compulsory humane slaughter bills and an amused public
opinion stirred to action by humane-minded individuals and groups who insist that
the present cruel antiquated methods should not be allowed to continue. Editorials
favoring the pending bills appeared in newspapers and magazines from coast to
coast; letters from persons determined that this inexcusable cruelty to our food
animals should be stopped deluged the ofﬁces of Senators and Representatives
in Washington. On May 9-10, the Senate sub-committee held hearings on the
Humphrey bill. A representative of the Animal Welfare Institute appeared in
support, showing a captive bolt pistol, an electrical poultry stunner and a chart
explaining carbon dioxide anesthetization of hogs, and emphasizing the practicality
and eﬂiciency of these humane slaughtering methods.

The Institute for several years, since publication in its November-December,
1952 Information Report of an article concerning carbon dioxide anesthetization
of hogs, has sought by means of articles published in its Information Report and

through correspondence to stimulate interest in the use of humane slaughtering
devices.

h A grant to study carbon dioxide anesthetization of the bovine species prior
to slaughter, with a view to ascertaining whether this method of stunning used so
successfully on hogs w0uld also be practicable on cattle, has been made by the
Animal Welfare Institute to Michigan State University and work is now under way.
This grant was made possible by the generosity of a member of the Institute.

New Advisory Committee Member

The Institute was honored to welcome as a new member of its advisory commit-
tee the distinguished naturalist, author and humanitarian, Dr. Joseph Wood Krutch.
Dr. Krutch is the author of ”The Measure of Man” which received the National
Book Award for non-ﬁction published in 1934, ”The Desert Year” which was
awarded the John Burroughs Association Medal, "The Best of Two Worlds”, ”The
Twelve Seasons”, ”Henry David Thoreau”, ”The Voice of the Desert, A Naturalist’s
Interpretation” and many others. The Institute feels highly privileged that it may
call «upon Dr. Krutch for'counsel, advice and assistance.




Conventions and Meetings

Representatives of the Institute attended the following conventions and meetings
during the year:

American Institute of Biological Sciences, East Lansing, Michigan (Schweitzer
medal award ceremony), Sept. 8, 1955

Michigan Federation of Humane Societies, East Lansing, Mich., Sept. 24, 1955

American Humane Association annual convention, Grand Rapids, Michigan, Nov.
1 - 2, 1955

Humane Treatment of Animals Committee of National Council of Women, London,
England, Nov. 9, 1955

Executive meeting, Universities Federation for Animal Welfare, London, England,
Nov. 12, 1955

Animal Care Panel, New York, N. Y., Dec. 1-2, 1955

American Association for the Advancement of Science, Atlanta, Ga. (AWI exhibit
in the Exposition of Science and Industry), Dec. 27-30, 1955

Laboratory Animals Bureau _Congress, London, England, April 11 - 12, 1956

Annual General Meeting, Animal Technicians Association, London, England, April
12, 1956

Summary of Information Reports

The Institute’s bi~monthly Information Reports brought to the attention of
readers material on better care, housing and treatment of laboratory animals, em-
phasizing that higher standards in this ﬁeld would not only beneﬁt the animals.
but increase scientiﬁc accuracy. The Reports also urged an immediate change in
the present inhumane methods by which food animals are slaughtered in this
country, and condemned the growing trend toward cruel experimentation on ani-
mals by children in secondary schools.

One of the Institute"s objectives —- the practical replacement of
the higher mammals by much lower forms of life or life in lower stages
01‘ embryonic development —— was discussed in the March-April Report. The
manufacture by Lederle Laboratories of rabies vaccine using embryonated eggs in
place of live, adult mammals was reported, as was the use of beetles instead of
rats in Rutgers University studies of the effects of trace minerals on nutritional
value of foods. The article also cited an item from the Navy Times concerning
the use of frogs instead of rabbits in pregnancy tests; it was pointed out that not
only is it easier to keep frogs humanely under laboratory conditions but the frog
unlike the rabbit can be used in several tests instead of only one. The Report
expressed the Institutes belief that an enormous step forward in reducing the
volume of severe pain which laboratory animals with highly developed nervous
systems a: now undergoing in cancer tests would be effected by shifting prelim-
inary routine cancer tests from mice to embryonated eggs. A report on such ex-

 




 

perimentation by University of Texas scientists, who believe that their technique
would be an excellent tool for long range cancer study, was quoted from the
New York Times.

A reprint of an article entitle-d ”Experiments on Animals” by Major C. \W.
Hume, founder and director of the Universities Federation for Animal Welfare,
London, England, was distributed with the March-April Report.

Laboratory rules worthy of adoption by a]! scientific institutions
which use experimental animals were reprinted in the May-June report. These
rules, concerning humane treatment as well as humane destruction at the end of
experimentation, appear in the Instructions for Graduate Students and Assistants
in the Department of Physiology and Pharmacology, Michigan State University
Veterinary College.

A film for the training of laboratory personnel entitled ”Handling Laboratory
Animals”, available in this country thrOugh the Animal Welfare Institute, was first
announced in the January-February Report; brief announcements concerning its
purchase and rental charges and its availability in Canada were also carried in the
March-April and May-June Reports. This was one of the series of scientiﬁc ﬁlms
presented at the ninth annual Congress of the Laboratory Animals Bureau, held
at the Royal Veterinary College in London, April 11-12 and attended by an Ani-
mal Welfare Institute representative. An account of this Congress, as well as the
sixth annual General Assembly of the Animal Technicians Association which took
place April 12, appeared in the March-April Report.

Two encouraging developments in connection with the transportation of the
many thousands of monkeys used annually in research were listed in the September-
October Report. Much unnecessary suffering and many deaths have resulted from
the methods used in the past to transport these animals to the United States, and
the Institute has sought the cooperation of importers, scientists, animal protective
societies and law enforcement agencies in an effort to have these conditions im-
proved. The Institute was glad to report that excellent new recommendations on
the subject have recently been proposed by the British Medical Research Council,
and that one of the largest importers of monkeys in this country has endorsed a
new set of regulations which should cut substantially losses of monkeys during ship-
ment. These regulations, which provide for proper selection, tests and treatment
prior to shipment, care during transit, and the keeping of a log during the trip,
were reprinted in full in Vol. 4, No. 4.

American and European sIaughtering methods were discussed in an
article in the November-December Report, which stressed the fact that only com-
pulsory legislation can insure the humane slaughter of food animals. Reporting
on an inspection trip made by an Animal Welfare Institute representative to
slaughtering plants in England, Denmark and the Netherlands, the article pointed
out that although three humane methods of slaughter exist today, only a minute
fraction. of the animals slaughtered annually inthis ﬁcountry are killed humanely.

 

 

 




 

 

 

The CO-2 tunnel for anesthetizing hogs prior to slaughter was invented in 1950
by George A. Hormel Company of Austin, Minnesota, but to the great disappoint-
ment of humanitarians, not one single American packing plant except Hormel uses
this method. A compact new type of CO-2 anesthetizing machine, which requires
ﬂoor space of only 61/2 by 18 feet and handles up to 240 pigs per hour, is in
successful operation in Denmark.

Research in carbon dioxide anesthetization of the bovine species prior to
slaughter, being undertaken at Michigan State University with the assistance of a
grant from the Institute, was announced in the March-April Report. A late and
important deveIOpment in the carbon dioxide anesthetization of hogs—the method
of sticking and bleeding recently inaugurated in the Fremont, Nebraska Hormel
plant—was also reported in the March-April issue. According to an article in the
National Provisioner, internal bruising has been reduced 90% by bleeding uncon-
scious hogs in a prone position; an officer of the company stated that this method
"will eliminate virtually all the cost of internally bruised hams which, last year,
cost Hormel $50,000 in paid claims.” This, the Report pointed out, is one
example of the fact that humane methods of slaughter are not only commercially
feasible but decidedly profitable.

The development of a new humane slaughter device by the Remington Arms
Co., said to be both efﬁcient and effective, was announced in the january-February
and May-June Reports.

An analysis of the Department of Agriculture’s adverse report
on the compulsory humane slaughter bills, carried in the January-February Report,
pointed out the fallacies in the Department’s statement. An announcement of public
hearings on the Humphrey compulsory humane slaughter bill was carried in the
March-April Report, and the May-June Report told of the favorable action taken
by the sub-committee of the Senate Committee on Agriculture and Commerce fol-
lowing the hearings on May 9 and 10.

”Demoralizing Projects and Classroom Demonstrations” was the subject of
an article in the January-February Report, which reproduced a New York City
ﬂeWSpaper story of a 15-year-old girl’s investigation of tumor transplants in mice.
The story, headed ”Girl Slices Animals into Talent Melon”, told of her winning
the 1956 Science Talent Search award. The January-February Report also told
in detail of the series of demonstrations suggested by the cancer laboratories of the
National Institutes of Health, described earlier in this annual report.

An outstanding article by Dr. Clive M. M cCay, Professor of Na-
trition of Cornell University, entitled ”Animal Experiments by High School
Students”, was published in the March-April Report. Dr. McCay expressed his belief
that there are hundreds of good nutritional experiments which can be done without
any suffering to the animal and without injury to the sensitivity of the student,
and added: ”I believe it is the duty of biology teachers to orient students so that
they will realize that they must have long and severe, specialized training before

 

 

 




 

they are ﬁtted to go into research that involves poisons, surgery or Vivisection. With
such training is bound to come a realization that some suffering is inevitable
in the advancement of knowledge but that there is never justiﬁcation for needless
suffering.”

The ﬁrst announcement of the publication of ”First Aid and Care of Small
Animals” was carried in the September-October Report; a second printing was an-
nounced in the January-February issue. The booklet is furnished free to teachers,
scout leaders, camp counsellors, etc., and sold at cost (25¢) to all others.

The presentation of the ﬁrst Schweitzer medal to Dr. Robert C. Bay was re-
ported in the September-October issue, with Dr. Bay’s acceptance speech appearing
in the November-December Report. A complete account of the censorship imposed
upon the Institute in connection with its proposed exhibit at the AIBS meeting at
East Lansing, Michigan, appeared in the May-June Report.

 

 

Contributions to the Animal Welfare Institute are deductible in computing
income tax returns, and donations, large or small, are most gratefully accepted
for the general fund or for special purposes. The extension of the Institute’s

much needed work depends .upon such support.

 

 

 

 

 

 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

Advisory Committee

Dr. Lee R. Dice Dr. Peter Okkelberg David’ Ricardo Dr. Joseph Wood Krutch

OFFICERS

Christine Stevens, President . Alfred R. Glancy, Jr., Vice—President
Estella Draper, Executive Secretary ‘ Roger L. Stevens, Treas.

Mary M. Richards, Asst. Treas.

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

M. _
ﬁ- ‘7

 

 

 

 




 




SIXTH ANNUAL REPORT

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
2 East 17th Street

eWYork 3, New York

 




 

SIXTH ANNUAL REPORT OF THE
ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

22 East 17th Street, New York 3, New York
(July 1, 1956 to June 30, 1957)

Work To Improve Laboratory Animal Care and Housing

A number of requests for advice were received during the year from ﬁrms
of architects who were designing laboratory animal quarters, as well as from in-
dividual scientists who desired to discuss construction plans with representatives
of the Institute. Such requests provide a welcome opportunity to encourage
comfortable and roomy housing for animals and to prevent costly errors. Con-
tinued distribution of the AWI manual ”Comfortable Quarters for Laboratory
Animals” brings good designs to institutions planning new quarters or the re-
modelling of existing buildings.

The second supplement to this loose-leaf manual was issued in November
and sent to the approximately 400 institutions which have requested copies of
the manual. The new supplement included photographs and ﬂoor plans of good
quarters with adequate exercise space for monkeys, chimpanzees, dogs and other
large animals at the National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland, where run-
ways range from 14 to 25 feet in length; a photograph of a new cat room at
Albany Medical College, Albany, New York, where the cats are not conﬁned to
cages but are allowed to move about freely, sleep on wooden shelves provided
with paper bedding, and sharpen their claws on a dead tree; architect's plans for
proposed new dog quarters with outside runways at the University of Pennsyl~
vania; a photograph of a cypress resting board for laboratory dogs to sleep on
at Gaines Kennel, Cornell University, Ithaca, New York; drawings and photo-
graphs of three different types of comfortable wooden nest boxes for rabbits and
a picture of well-designed outdoor rabbit hutches for warm climates which in-
clude ﬂoor boards for the rabbits’ comfort and protection (Beacon Milling Co.
and the University of California Agricultural Experiment Station); a diagram
of a five-tier guinea pig battery which conserves laboratory space while at the
same time providing good exercise room for the animals (Flux Company, Eng—
land); pictures of a cage for small rodents which features a built-in nest bOX,
removable for cleaning with a hinged cover which may be lifted for easy observa-
tion without disturbing the animals (Norwich Wire Works, Norwich, New York),
and a picture of a roomy rabbit cage with removable center partition which permits
extra space for individual animals when desired (Frederick Braby 8: Co. England).

Thanks are due to Veterinary News (New York State Veterinary Associa—
tion) and to the Goshen Practitioner for calling the new supplement to the at-
tention of their readers.

 

 

sc
fc

ta
yr

3%

Ir

21V

Zé

Ir
in
cc
ca
cr




A law (No. 835) was enacted this year authorizing the federal government
to supply 50 per cent of the cost of construction of research buildings. A num-
ber of institutions have applied for funds for improving animal quarters and
the Animal Welfare Institute has urged other laboratories with uncomfortable
animal housing to do the same. The Institute believes that all institutions which
use experimental animals and which receive federal funds should be required to
provide comfortable accommodations for the animals, using whatever part of the
funds allocated as are necessary for the purpose.

The ﬁrst edition of the Institute’s manual ”Basic Care of Experimental Ani-
mals” has been exhausted, 7500 copies having been sent free upon request to
scientific institutions during the past four years. A revised edition to be ready
for distribution early in 1958 is now in preparation. ”Basic Care of Experimen-
tal Animals” is in use in laboratories in 44 States and 35 foreign countries. This
year it was translated and published in Japanese.

”T he UFAW Handbook on the Care and Management of Laboratory Ani-
mals” is the first comprehensive text ever published on the subject. The Uni-
versities Federation for Animal Welfare, with headquarters in London, England,
was responsible for this important step in 1947. The new edition, now in press,
is substantially enlarged. The Animal Welfare Institute is cooperating in mak-
ing it available to American scientists and orders have been received from labora-
tories in 37 States, the District of Columbia and Canada as the result of the
announcement sent out with an Information Report. The UFAW Handbook
provides detailed technical information on a large variety of animals and their
proper maintenance. Its hundreds of pages contrast with the 36 pages of "Basic
Care of Laboratory Animals”, which is written in simple non-technical language
easily understood by the people who take care of the animals.

The ﬁlm ”Handling Laboratory Animals” complements these publications,
with its clear demonstrations of humane and skillful handling of twelve com-
mon species of laboratory animals. It has been shown widely in scientiﬁc insti»
tutions throughout the United States through the agency of the Animal Welfare
Institute, and owing to a subsidy by a generous member of the Institute it is
available to laboratories for purchase at $65 and rental at $3 per weeek. It
was produced by MacQueen Films, in cooperation with the National Institute for
Medical Research in England.

An enormous amount of work remains to be done in bringing the care and
housing of experimental animals up even to bare minimum standards. The
Institute will continue to work to reduce unnecessary suffering now being widely
inﬂicted on these animals. It will continue 1) to provide free, or at minimal
cost, information and educational material on humane and practical animal
care, handling and housing, and 2) to voice criticism of callous, wasteful and
cruel practices in scientific institutions.

 




 

Humane Slaughter

The day when our food animals will be killed humanely was brOught one
step nearer on June 29, when the Agriculture Committee of the United States
House of Representatives reported favorably a bill which would require the Fed-
eral Government to purchase meat only from packers who use humane methods
in all their plants. The bill (HR 8308) was introduced by the Hon. W. R.
Poage of Texas, Chairman of the Sub-committee which visited a series of slaugh-
terhouses during the Congressional recess and which held hearings on the mat-
ter in April. The Committee voted 25 to 3 to approve the bill, despite efforts
of packers to obtain the substitution of a totally ineffective resolution. In their
opposition to the passage of compulsory humane slaughter legislation, the pack-
ers have had a formidable ally: the United States Department of Agriculture
headed by Secretary Ezra Taft Benson. The opponents do not, of course, come
out ﬂatly for inhumane slaughter methods, but merely in favor of the status quo
and "more study”.

Shortly after the Opening of Congress in January, Congresswoman Grifﬁths
(D.Mich.) in the House and Senator Humphrey in the Senate reintroduced the
excellent compulsory humane slaughter bills they had sponsored the previOus
year. Co-sponsors of the Senate bill were Senators Purtell ( R. Conn), Neuberger
(D.Ore.), and Smith (R.Maine). Similar bills were introduced by Congressmen
Miller (D.Calif.), Dawson (R.Utah), Hiestand (R.Calif.), McMillan (D.South
Carolina), Loser (D.Tenn.), and Hyde (R.Md.).

Since 1952 the Institute has worked in all ways possible to encourage the
adoption of humane slaughtering methods. At the hearing held on April 2, the
Institute was represented and exhibited four of the humane stunning instruments
now on the market. It also arranged for the showing of Mr. Arthur Redman’s
SOund ﬁlm which documents the cruel and terrifying method of slaughtering hogs
used by the great majority of this country’s packing plants today. Written tes-
timony was also submitted, extra copies of which may be obtained by writing to
the AWI ofﬁce.

Witnesses testifying in behalf of the proposed legislation at this hearing in-
cluded representatives of the General Federation of Women’s Clubs, the Farmer’s
Union, the Amalgamated Meat Cutters and Butcher Workmen of America and
animal protective organizations from all parts of the nation. The leadership of
the House of Representatives has indicated that HR 8308, the Committee bill,
will be scheduled for a vote early in 1958. Mail to Congress favoring passage
of the bill was reported greater than on any other single issue during the S€SSi0f1-

Humane Education

Two aspects.0f humane education are constantly before the Institute: the
development of kind and considerate attitudes towards animals and the discour-

 

 

 

t-hr-r‘xr-‘Ab—am’tn”

OﬁnmLJITHWE‘<HNWWmHl—Hm

CST 50‘0.

Q45 QH’T‘

\




agement of cruel and callous attitudes. A continued struggle against painful
animal experiments conducted by children and young people in primary and sec-
ondary schools has been carried out by the Institute. The overall results of this
work are diﬂicult to assess. The Oak Ridge Institute of Nuclear Studies issued
a very helpful statement this year cautioning against cruel experiments in Science
Fairs for young people. On the other hand, the Westinghouse Corporation
which sponsors these Fairs ﬁnancially has failed to take any action to prevent
useless cruelty to animals by high school students. anxious to win cash prizes.
A major campaign may be necessary to bring an end to this demoralizing activity
but it is hoped that responsible educators will take the necessary steps without
further urging.

The widespread interest of teachers in the Institute’s manual ”First Aid
and Care of Small Animals” suggests that most educators have a natural pre~
ference for teaching kindness rather than cruelty. Requests for free copies are
received constantly from teachers, scout leaders, camp counsellors and others in
all parts of the country. The 48-page manual, written by Ernest P. Walker of
the Smithsonian Institution, was published in 1955 and more than 24,000 copies
are now in use. The Institute acknowledges with .,thanks the recent reviews and
announcements which were helpful in calling "First Aid and Care of Small Ani-
mals” to the attention of persons who could put it to good use in educating
young people and helping animals. Publications carrying such material included
the Detroit Free Press, Recreation (the magazine of National Recreation Associa-
tion), Journal of the American Association for Health, Physical Education and
Recreation, Sunset Magazine, Camping Magazine, Audubon Junior News, Audu-
bon Magazine, Pennsylvania Science Teacher, American Biology Teacher, California
Teachers Association Journal, Vertical File Index (published for librarians), and
Elementary Teachers Guide to Free Curriculum Materials. In October, sample
copies were sent to 197 teachers colleges, to encourage humane education in the
training of teachers; many of these institutions are now using it as a text, free
copies having been supplied by the Institute. '

An article entitled ”Learning to Care for Animals”, stressing that through
classroom experiences children can acquire lifelong humane attitudes, was written
by the Institute’s president for the March 1957 issue of New York State Education.
Another brief article concerning “First Aid and Care of Small Animals” ap-
peared in the Bulletin to the Schools, published by the New York State Depart-
ment of Education.

The new ﬁlm “Albert Schweitzer”, produced by Erica Anderson and Jerome
Hill, showed the moving scene from Dr. Schweitzer’s childhood in which his
determination to protect animals is found, and scenes in Lambaréné with his ani-
mal friends at the hospital. The Institute cooperated in publicizing the ﬁlm and
distributed 10,000 announcements of it.

Animal Seizure Legislation

The opposition of humanitarians failed to prevent enactment in Massachu-
setts and Ohio of bills designed to compel humane societies to break their trust

 

 




 

 

to animals and to their supporters by sending animals from their shelters into
:3Xperimental laboratories for uncontrolled experimentation. In Florida and in
New Orleans, attempts to pass such legislation were defeated. The Massachusetts
SPCA has ﬁled a suit to contest the constitutionality of the law. All humani-
tarians are looking to the Courts to put an end to this unjust, inhumane and
impractical legislation.

Schweitzer Medal

The second Albert Schweitzer Medal was awarded to Major C. W. Hume,
fOunder and Secretary-General of Universities Federation for Animal Welfare, on
October 12, 1956 in London in recognition of his achievements in the reduction
of cruelty to animals. Kenneth Bird (Fougasse), Chairman and Hon. Artist of
UFAW, spoke at the ceremony to which the most active UFAW/ workers were
invited.

Major Hume recognized before anyone else the extraordinarily close rela-
tionship which was bound to come between science on the massive modern scale
and the welfare of animals. Having recognized it, he acted upon it in a wide
variety of ways from the most minutely technical to the most broadly ethical.

”The Status of Animals in the Christian Religion” by Major Hume was pub-
lished in january and is available in this country from the Animal Welfare In-
stitute ($1.25 per copy.) It is a highly original work whose great scholarship
never intrudes itself in the pleasure of reading. It is delightfully illustrated
with 99 different animals from the Bible, drawn by Fougasse.

Humane Trapping

During the course of the year, the Institute kept in touch with development
and testing of humane traps, made a survey of trapping laws and sent information
to Dr. F. Jean Vinter of UFAW who is preparing a comprehensive booklet
”Facts About Fur” which will be available in this country from the Institute.
Members are invited to request a copy.

Conventions and Meetings
Representatives of the Institute attended the following conventions and meetings
during the year:
Symposium on Nutrition, Laboratory Animals Bureau, London, England Oct. 6.
World Federation for Protection of Animals, Orleans, France Oct. 13 - 16.
Annual Meeting, AWI, New York October 23 (speaker: Ernest P. Walker)
Animal Care Panel, Chicago, Ill. November 29-December 1.
World Federation for Protection of Animals, The Hague, Netherlands, April 27—30.

 

Sun

peart

by l
Rese
the
anin
if f(
they
with
are
Of i:

ed,

the

rate
CEIVt
pro;
Dr.
has

tern
mal
be 3
be c
be ‘
labo

anir.
into
all <

set

Rep
tory
of 1
buil
witl
con:

the




Summary of Information Reports

Following are summaries and excerpts of some of the material which ap-
peared in the Information Reports but was not detailed in the foregoing.

“Why Laboratory Animals Die” was the subject of an article written
by Dr. W. Lane-Fetter, Director of the Laboratory Animals Bureau, Medical
Research Council of Great Britain, for "Nature” June 30, 1956, and quoted in
the January-February Report. Dr. Lane-Fetter said: “To compare laboratory
animals with chemical reagents is an analogy that has become hackneyed and,
if followed too far, is misleading. Reagents they may be to the biologist, but
they have characteristics distinguishing them sharply from the inanimate substances
with which the chemist has to deal. They are not inanimate but living; and they
are not a homogeneous mass but distinct individuals, however nearly the ideal
of individual similarity or uniformity may be approached.”

This concept of the laboratory animal as an individual, the Report comment-
ed, is not always easy to bear in mind where large numbers are kept, but it is
the basis for the close and careful observation upon which rests not only first-
rate research but ﬁrst-rate animal care. The quality of care which animals re-
ceive is probably the biggest single factor affecting their health, maintenance of
proper standards in food and housing being essential components of the whole.
Dr. Lane-Petter’s article mentioned the Animal Technicians Association which
has so greatly raised the standards of care in British laboratories, and stated: ”The
term ‘animal technician’ ﬁrst achieved formal status six years ago when the Ani-
mal Technicians Association was founded. After six years it is time for it to
be generally adopted and for the older terms applied to animal house staff to
be dropped. . . . No animal houses in Great Britain are so bad that they could not
be worse; but many are not so good that they could not be better if unskilled
labour were to be gradually replaced by qualiﬁed animal technicians.”

Summing up, the Report said that wise administrators will seek the best in
animal care; they will resist pressures to crowd too large a number of animals
into the quarters thus reducing the disease-resistance, comfort and well-being of
all of them; they will recognize the importance of each experimental animal and
set aside adequate funds for proper care and housing.

Sound advice on animal quarters from a National Research Council
Report on Design, Construction and Equipment of Laboratories entitled "Labora-
tory Design,” was quoted in the September-October Report. Charles P. Carpenter
of the Mellon Institute, giving useful pointers to those who are planning new
buildings, recommended kennel-runway accommodations for dogs and monkeys,
with adequate protection against sun and rain. A major advance in cage design and
construction—a metabolism cage with resting place for dogs—was described in
the March-April Report, which reprinted an article from the ATA Journal entitled

 




 

 

 

”A Metabolism Cage for Use with Dogs of Varying Sizes.” This cage, measur-
ing 6’7” x 4’61/8” x 4’, with a rest of sufﬁcient dimensions to permit even a large
dog to lie fully stretched upon it, was designed by A. N. Worden.

Complaints against administrators Who refuse to recognize that
laboratory animals must have a reasonable amount of space and com-
fort and competent care were cited in the January-February Report, which
carried an excerpt from a letter from a doctor doing research in a large institu-
tion in one of our major cities: ”We have recently gone through two epidemics
and have lost two colonies of guinea pigs, due to inadequate facilities and inade-
quate care. Your institution w0uld do well to educate hospital administrators
concerning the importance of setting aside funds for the housing and care of
animals. It must be emphasized that men who take care of animals are not to
be considered as dregs of humanity who are to be paid $120 to $140 per month.
Animals must not be housed in any leftover storage rooms, cellars or hallways.
Your literature should go to our Board of Directors and Administrators.”

The belief that some portion of the Federal funds which are
made available through grants to research institutions should be set
aside for any necessary improvement of animal quarters was expressed
in the September-October Report. It was also urged that Federal grants should
be limited to institutions which already provide, or which will provide as part
of the new construction, humane and scientiﬁc housing for all animals used. This
would include runways for all large animals, as well as adequate space, cleanli-
ness, ventilation, light and comfortable resting places for all animals. The Re-
port added: ”There is a widespread belief that whenever adequate funds are
available for a research building it follows almost automatically that the animal
quarters will be well-designed and comfortable. Unfortunately, experience shows
that many millions of dollars have recently been spent for the construction of
medical research buildings whose animal quarters are entirely inadequate both
from the humane and the scientiﬁc Viewpoint. It is not uncommon to see very
substantial waste of space and construction material immediately adjacent to quar-
ters in which each animal has only enough room to turn around.”

A review of a UFAW Symposium on “Humane Technique in the
Laboratory” appearing in the May 18 issue of the distinguished medical journal
”The Lancet”, was reprinted in the May-June Report. The Lancet review stated
that the theme of the symposium was ”that suffering could be reduced, and the
value of experiments simultaneously increased, by replacement of animals by other
systems, by reduction in numbers used, and by reﬁnements in technique.” It said:
”If we decide that experiments should be performed on living animals, it is our
duty to ensure that their suffering is the least possible.”

Two papers especially noteworthy in promoting the welfare of
animals, read at the annual Animal Care Panel in Chicago Nov. 29-Dec. 1,
were cited in the January-February Report. One described a practical method

 

ﬂu ‘wrg? . A \

 

 




.Arr1 a “.L..__ 4-4,. ‘7 A..z___ A.

 

 

of establishing colonies of seven species of small lab-oratory animals free of the
debilitating endemic diseases to which so many of these creatures succumb in most
laboratories. The other was an intelligent and comprehensive report on the
British Animal Technicians Association and its parent body, the Laboratory Ani—
mals Bureau, a report particularly appropriate at this meeting in View of the
growing interest in training animal technicians in our country. The ATA was
characterized as a digniﬁed group entitled to respect because it has attracted a
superior type of personnel and gives the animal technician a deﬁnite place in

the research picture.

The importance of exercise for experimental mice was brOught out
in a paper written by Dr. 0. Muhlbock of the Netherlands Cancer Institute, and
quoted in the same Report. It is noteworthy, said the Report, that by far the
highest incidence of mammary cancer in mice occurred when animals were kept
in solitary conﬁnement without opportunity for adequate exercise; animals kept
in large groups in large cages or provided with exercise wheels showed a much
lower incidence. Since differences in type of housing can result in differences
of more than 100 per cent in the incidence of cancer, the Report noted, it is
clearly essential from the humane standpoint and also from the standpoint
of scientiﬁc accuracy, to provide comfortable, roomy accommodations designed to
ﬁt the needs of the animals housed. By reducing mortality caused by unsuitable
housing, many animals will be spared needless suffering which, so far from ad-
vancing scientiﬁc knowledge, can only serve to confuse and retard it.

The forthcoming revision of the manual “Basic Care of Experi-
mental Animals”, which the Institute distributes free to laboratories, was an-
nOunced in the January-February Report. To assist in the revision of this man-
ual, to provide technical advice to the Institute and to consult with scientiﬁc in-
stitutions thrOughOut the country on care and management of experimental ani-
mals, Mr. G. Porter of the Laboratory Animals Bureau was invited to come to
the United States. The Medical Research Council of Great Britain very kindly
gave Mr. Porter a three—months leave of absence. His proposed visit was an-
nounced in the March-April Report, which also told of the early publication of the
second edition of “The UFAW Handbook on the Care and Management of

Laboratory Animals”, to be distributed in the United States by the Institute.

A severe blow to the humane movement in this country, the
enactment of animal seizure bills in Massachusetts and Ohio, was
described in the May-June Report, which stated: "In both Massachusetts and
Ohio, amendments offering to exempt humane shelters from the provision of
the law met with a storm of protest from sponsors, who claimed the bills would
be ruined by such an amendment. Since experimental dogs are available from
other sources (dog wardens and ordinary pounds, breeders, dealers, and pet
3110138) it can only be concluded that this legislation is an attempt to destroy
humane societies. It is a curious paradox to ﬁnd the ultra-conservative forces of '
organized medicine marshalled against private charity and private Property as they

 




 

 

have been whenever one of these animal seizure bills is proposed.” The Report
also stated, “The National Society for Medical Research has, at last, following a
direct request for substantiation, admitted the falsity of the story it has been
spreading for nearly ten years to the effect that Hitler passed an anti-vivisection
law. On June 3, 1957 replying to a letter from the Animal Welfare Institute,
an NSMR ofﬁcial admitted: 'We have looked up the German law, have found
that it is still in effect, and have found that it does not prohibit or even seriously
encumber animal experimentation.’ A few days later, on June 7th, a letter from
this same ofﬁcial was published by the Akron (Ohio) Beacon [OZ/mm! stating
that the Society had been misled by the anti-vivisectionists into thinking there
was a Nazi anti-vivisection law.

”Before its retraction, the Nazi story was effectively used in propaganda
for the passage of the Massachusetts and Ohio animal seizure laws. The truth of
the matter is that the Nazis used both people and animals in large numbers for
cruel experiments.”

News of another practical and humane device for rendering ani-
mals insensible prior to slaughter—the Schermer stunner—was carried in the
November-December Report, along with other up-to-date information on the nu-
merous humane devices available to all packers who wish to kill animals humanely.
A report of the highly effective questioning of witnesses by the Chairman and
Vice Chairman of the House Committee on Agriculture, Mr. Cooley and Mr.
Poage, appeared in the May-June issue.

“Which Direction for Future Scientists” was the title of an ar-
ticle in the September-October Report, which told of painful experiments with
animals being conducted in their homes by 17-year-old boys. When animal
experimentation is carried on by immature youths seeking Science Fair awards,
the Report commented, the questions raised should be pondered far more seri-
ously than they have been to date by the groups whose money and promotional
efforts. have brOught about this peculiarly modern form of moral laxity. Another
example of cruelty to animals being used to attract children to science was cited
in the March-April Report. If it were the purpose of educators to develop callous-
ness in the coming generation, to train young people to inﬂict suffering without
a qualm and to stiﬂe the normal human feelings of kindliness and pity for small,
helpless animals, the Report stated, no better way could be chosen than that spon-
sored for high school students by the Waldemar Medical Research Foundation.
According to the N ew York Timer of February 28, 1957, the boys and girls were
conducting experiments ”to see whether mice made cancerous through injections
will transmit cancer to their offspring.” Pointing out that such experiments are
simpliﬁed repetition of experiments which have already been frequently repeated,
the Report concluded: ”For children to repeat again such unnecessary animal
suffering is not only unjustiﬁed, it is profoundly immoral. It should not be
tolerated—except by those who want to turn back the progress of our civilization

and encourage the growth of cruelty.”

Ff

*_._

 

 

 

 




+~—~—_ov Wm

 

 

A step toward reversing this trend in science teaching, taken by
the Oak Ridge Institute of Nuclear Studies, was described in the November-De-
cember Report. ORINS ofﬁcials, after reviewing practices of high school stu~
dents in using experimental animals, have inserted the following statement into
their manuals for science fairs: ”CAUTION: It is suggested that extreme care
be exercised before approving a student project involving the use of animals.
There are a number of instructional animal experiments which might be carried
out by students, such as nutritional studies which involve no discomfort or in-
humane treatment to the animal. But there are also a number of animal experi-
ments which, while possibly necessary and valid when conducted by an ex-
perienced technician, are highly invalid and uselessly inhumane when conducted
by a student. Perhaps it would be good to withhold approval of any student
experiment which might inﬂict any degree of pain, discomfort or mental anguish
on an animal, regardless of the value of such a project as a science-education tool.”

“The Great Chain of Life,” an excellent new book by Joseph
'Wood Krutch, naturalist, writer of great distinction and a member of the
Institute’s Advisory Committee, was reviewed in the January-February Report.
Dr. Krutch stressed the need for human beings to regain their self-respect and,
with it respect for the world around them. In an article written for "The Am-
erican Scholar” and quoted in the September-October Report, Dr. Krutch re-
ferred to Dr. Albert Schweitzer’s concept of Reverence for Life in relation to
educational practices and condemned the trend toward cruel experiments by school
children. He added: ”Is it sentimental to ask whether anyone not preparing
for the serious study of anatomy is likely to be any the better for the dissecting
of a cat or whether anyone, no matter what career he is preparing for, is any
the better for having starved a rat or induced cancer in a mouse ?”

 

 

Contributions to the Animal Welfare Institute are deductible in computing
income tax returns, and donations, large or small, are most gratefully accepted

for the general fund or for special purposes. The extension of the Institute’s

 

much needed work depends upon such support.

 

 

 

 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
Advisory Committee

Dr. Lee R. Dice Dr. Peter Okkelberg David Ricardo Dr. Joseph Wood Krutch

OFFICERS
Christine Stevens, President . Alfred R. Glancy, Jr., Vice-President
Estella Draper, Executive Secretary . Roger L. Stevens, Treas.

Mary M. Richard's, Asst. Treas.

 




 




SEVENTH ANNUAL REPORT

Sleeping pig emerging from a carbon dioxide
anesthetizing tunnel.

ANIMAL \VELFARE INSTITUTE
22 East 17th Street
New York 3, N. Y.

 




 

(Cover picture courtesy Geo. A. Hormel & Co.)

 

 

 

 

U‘DFJVDH"

_<.

ft

16
bi

U‘Nm




SEVENTH ANNUAL REPORT OF THE

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
22 East 17th Street, New York 3, N. Y.
(July 1, 1957, to June 30, 1958)

The year 1957-58 was a lucky year for animals in the United States. Three
major events took place which cannot fail to help reduce cruelty in the coming
years:

1) Legislation requiring the use of humane methods of slaughter was passed.

2) The biggest trap company in the world put an instant-killing, trap into
production with the announcement that this is the ﬁrst practical humane
trap ever to be invented.

3) A national magazine of large circulation printed an honest and hard-hitting
account on the need to prevent unnecessary cruelty to experimental animals.

The work of the Animal Welfare Institute in relation to these and other less
spectacular animal protective activities is summarized below.

Humane Slaughter

On February 4, 1957 a Federal humane slaughter bill was passed by the US.
House of Representatives by voice vote. The legislation, which will protect about
90% of the food animals slaughtered annually in the United States, provides that
any packer wishing to sell meat to the Federal Government must use humane
methods of slaughter on all animals in all his plants. The bill was sponsored
by Rep. W. R. Poage (D., Texas), Chairman of the Sub-Committee which had
held extensive hearings the previous April, following visits to slaughterhouses in
various parts of the country. Mr. Poage led the ﬁght in the House roundly de-
feating opponents who sought to substitute an ineffective "study” bill.

Senator Hubert H. Humphrey (D., Minn.), ﬁrst sponsor of humane slaughter
legislation, immediately amended his pending bill to be identical, with the Poage
bill in order to facilitate passage by the Senate. . ,

Despite the fact that public hearings on compulsory humane slaughter legis-
lation had already been held in 1956 before a subcommittee of the Committee on
Agriculture and Forestry of the Senate, further hearings were held by that Com-
mittee from April 28 to May 1, 1958. On June 18, the Committee, whose chair-
man, Sen. Ellender of Louisiana, was a vigorous opponent of the legislation, voted
to substitute a study bill which the packers wanted to see enacted as a hedge against
effective legislation.* '

*However, the Senate overrode its Committee, defeated the study bill by a vote of 40-43,
and passed the House bill by a vote of. 72~9. The bill was signed into law on August

27, 1958. This took place after the period covered in this annual report but is included
because of its importance. -
i 1 ]

 




 

The Institute, which has worked in all ways possible since 1952 to encourage
the adoption of humane slaughter methods, was represented at both the 1957
Home hearings and the 1956 and 1958 Senate hearings. written testimony was
submitted, (extra copies of which may be obtained by writing to the Animal Wel-
fare Institute ofﬁce) and Arthur P. Redman’s film on hog slaughtering made
available to both House and Senate Agriculture Committees. Only the former,
however, was willing to see the horrible facts it presented so plainly. The cover
picture of this report depicts the humane alternative: peacefully sleeping pigs
anesthetized with carbon dioxide before slaughter.

Supplementing the outstanding efforts of Senator Humphrey and Congressman
Poage in obtaining passage of the law was the great popular demand for the
legislation (which brought more mail to Washington than any other issue in the
past two years) and the overwhelming support given by the press throughout the
country. Editorials in all of the best papers spoke out in strong terms demanding
effective legislation. The unanimity of feeling expressed by newspapers of different
political opinion was an unusual phenomenon and one for which humanitarians
can be deeply grateful. The power and basic decency of our free press was dem-
onstrated in a perfectly clear-cut manner.

Humane Trapping

A major development in the campaign to eliminate the extreme cruelty which
has been inﬂicted on fur-bearing animals for the past 300 years is the invention
of a new instant-killing humane trap by Frank Conibear of British Columbia. Mr.
Conibear’s efforts to produce a ﬁrst-rate humane trap covered a 28-year period,
during a considerable part of which he earned a living by trapping. The fully
documented account of this new trap, by Eric Collier, President of the British
Columbia Registered Trappers Association, appeared in the September and October
issues of ”Outdoor Life”, a magazine of wide circulation among hunters and trap-
pers. (Copies are available free on request from the Institute.) Mr. Collier made
clear his belief that professional trappers will welcome this practical humane equip-

ment, which is now available in this country and Canada from the Animal Trap
Company, Lititz, Pennsylvania.

A bill to require the use of humane methods of trapping animals and ‘birds
on lands and waterways under the jurisdiction of the United States was introduced
in the United States Senate on July 8, 1957 by Senators Richard L. Neuberger
(D., Oregon), Hubert H. Humphrey and Estes Kefauver (D., Tenn), and in
the House of Representatives by Congressman William S. Broomfield (R., Mich).

NO hearings were held upon the measure, but it is hoped that favorable action
will be taken in the next session of Congress. -

[2]

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

A

hmHHr-xnm




 

Schweitzer Medal

A great contribution to the advancement of laboratory animal welfare was
the publication of Paul W. Kearney’s forceful article concerning animals used in
research, “The Case for Humane Vivisection”, which appeared in the November
issue of Coronet Magazine. In this article, Mr. Kearney made clear the urgent
need for the reform, as distinct from the abolition, of animal experimentation.
He cited many examples of unnecessary animal suffering in laboratories. For
example, he wrote: ”One is entitled to question the necessity for a Boston labora-
tory, while studying the causes of human deaths by ﬁre—to burn live pigs to
death in gasoline ﬂames. And to wonder if the researchers would have learned
any less if the animals had been anesthetized.”

A series of descriptions of laboratories in leading scientiﬁc institutions, where
animals were conﬁned to cramped, wet, dirty quarters, suffering from. disease and
lack of care, was included in the article, as were reports on painful experiments
carried out for commercial purposes and on some of the cruel animal experiments
which many children have recently been encouraged to carry out in school or at
home. ”Such outlandish practices,” Mr. Kearney commented, ”simply emphasize
the extent to which we Americans have blindly turned 'scientiﬁc research’ into a
fetish, with the result that there is today virtually no limitation on what any Tom,
Dick or Harry with a kitchen knife can do to an animal so long as he wraps it
in the protective cloak of ‘scientific research’.”

1‘ In concluding, he stated that he offered no ready-made solution, but wished
bOth scientists and the public at large to recognize “the very real and urgent issue
of Humanity vs. Inhumanity in the use of animals for experimental purposes.”

In recognition of his contribution to animal welfare, Mr. Kearney was awarded
the third Albert Schweitzer Medal of the Animal Welfare Institute, at its annual
meeting, October 24, 1957.

New Edition of Basic Care of Experimental Animals

Revision of the Institute’s manual, “Basic Care of Experimental Animals,”
which is provided without charge to scientific institutions, was completed in January
and enlarged from 56 to 68 pages. The revision was made with the assistance
of Mr. George Porter of the Laboratory Animals Bureau (Medical Research Council
of Great Britain), who was given a three-months leave of absence for the purpose.
Mr. Porter has worked closely with the Animal Technicians Associations in Great
Britain, and is the author of Technical Notes for the L. A. B. as well as a chapter
for the new second edition of the "UFAW Handbook on the Care and Manage-
ment of Laboratory Animals.”

[3]

 

 




 

 

 

 

The new edition of "Basic Care of Experimental Animals” was undertaken
on the basis of a survey requesting expressions of opinion and new information
from users of the ﬁrst edition (7,500 copies) which had been exhausted. The
survey showed much appreciation of the usefulness of the manual. Among major
additions were appendices on nutrition and transportation of laboratory animals,
more comprehensive information on breeding, and reference tables giving data
of assistance in determining the state of the animals’ health.

”Basic Care of Experimental Animals”, now in use in 46 States and 38 foreign
countries, has been translated into German this year. (A Japanese edition was
published in 1956.) Copies of the revised edition may be obtained from the Insti-
tute free upon request by scientific institutions, in sufﬁcient number so that every
person employed in the care of animals and every medical or veterinary medical
student may have an individual copy.

Speaker on LabOratory Animal Care

In addition to wOrking on the revision of ”Basic Care of Experimental Ani-
mals”, Mr. Porter, under the auspices of the Institute, visited scientific institutions
in various parts of the country; at a number he conducted seminars on the proper
care and treatment of laboratory animals. Institutions and organizations by which
he was invited to speak during his stay included: Institute of Lab-oratory Animal
Resources, Plum Island Animal Disease Laboratory, Medical School of the University
of Florida, University of Miami Medical School, New York Branch of the Animal
Care Panel, Medical College of South Carolina, Emory University Medical School,
Georgetown University Medical College, University of Michigan Medical School,
Michigan State University College of Veterinary Medicine, Animal Care Panel
(annual meeting at San Francisco), University of California Medical School at
Los Angeles, University of Nebraska College of Medicine, Texas State Health
Department, Schering Corporation Laboratories, Brown University and Jackson
Memorial Laboratory.

Before returning to England on December 13, Mr. Porter also visited 32
other institutions.

Distribution of Information on the Care of Laboratory Animals

In its constant efforts to improve laboratory animal care and housing, the
Institute continued to provide advice concerning animal quarters, and to distribute
practical manuals free to experimental laboratories. The-‘manual, “Comfortable
Quarters for Laboratory Animals,” ’provides good designs to'institutions planning
new quarters or the remodelling of existing buildings. ”Basic Care of Experimental
Animals”, described above, is written simply and illustrated so that it may be
useful to the individual animal handler. ‘

[4]

V




The Institute also sells the new edition of ”The UFAW Handbook on the Care
and Management of Laboratory Animals,” published by the Universities Federation
for Animal Welfare (951 pp., $9.80), and distributes the 16 mm. sound ﬁlm.
”Handling Laboratory Animals” produced by MacQueen Films, incooperation
with the National Institute of Medical Research in England. This shows good
handling of 12 common species of laboratory animals, and is available to labora-
tories for purchase at $65 or rental at $3 a week. The bi-monthly Information
Reports, which .have carried numerous articles on animal care and housing, are
distributed to all 5311 members of the Federation of American Societies for Ex-
perimental Biology and to 2804 other scientiﬁc establishments or individuals.

Humane Education

In the ﬁeld of humane education, the Institute continued to emphasize the
need to develop kind attitudes toward animals and. discourage cruel and callous
attitudes among young peOple. The Institute repeatedly voiced opposition to painful
animal experiments being increasingly conducted by students in primary and
secondary schools. Encouraged by Science Fairs, grants from the National Science
Foundation, and organizations which offer cash prizes and scholarships, young
people have undertaken experiments which are cruel to animals and demoralizing
for the children themselves.

To help counteract this anti-humane trend, the Institute in 1955 published a
manual for teachers ”First Aid and Care of Small Animals”. Requests for free
copies continue to be received each month from all parts of the country. One
copy is sent free to any teacher upon request; in the case of teacher colleges,-sufﬁ~
cient copies are sent so that each prospective teacher may have one. During the
past year, 8500 copies were distributed. ,

Summary of Information Reports

In addition to articles on subjects speciﬁcally treated above, the Information
Reports told of the following: '

Recognition (of the vital importance of proper care, housing and
handling of experimental dogs, and Of the use of proper surgical techniques,
was given in the excellent article, ”Some Elements of Error in Experimental Sur-
gery”, reprinted in they March-April Report. It was written by Dr. J. ]. Perez—
Alvarez, of the Instituto Nacional de Cardiologia of Mexico City, for the February
issue of “Surgery”. Stressing the need for observation, treatment, vaccination,
adequate feeding and proper post-operative care by trained personnel, Dr. Perez
stated: "All the value of the experiment, all the time and effort of the personnel,

all the material used, and all the money represented may have been wasted if this

[5]

 




 

is not done. Again the need for proper housing of the animals and for the trained
personnel who must dedicate enough time to the care of them and who must have
available means to care for the animals properly are essential. It may be argued
that all this is expensive. Yes, progress is expensive but necessary, and in the ﬁnal
analysis it is cheaper to do a thing right once than to do many things wrong many
times.”

An article on ”Care of the Laboratory Dog”, in the November-December

Report, was written by Mr. George Porter toward the end of his stay in this
country, following his visits to various research institutions.

A case of extreme cruelty to laboratory dogs, which resulted in con-
viction of a research doctor and his animal caretaker, was described in the May-
June Report. After bodies of four dogs, showing signs of recent operations,
were found in a pond near Franklin, Massachusetts on March 30, the Report
stated, investigation disclosed that dogs of the Overholt Clinic in Boston, which
had undergone major heart surgery and tests on the heart-lung machine, were
being maintained in ﬁlth and being fed garbage. The doctor who performed the
operations, Dr. Fred Panico, had never taken the time to Visit his animal quarters,
but expressed satisfaction at the condition of the" animals when they were brought
to him, although others who saw them were horriﬁed at their emaciation. The
Report pointed out that Dr. Panico’s attitude in this respect is typical of far too
many research workers who are profoundly interested in their work, but totally
indifferent to their experimental subjects, and commented: ”The point which the
Animal Welfare Institute hopes will be driven home to all honorable scientists is
that the Dr. Panicos of medical research do not care how their animals are housed
and cared for. Whether it be mud and garbage, or wire mesh and pellets, whether
the dogs are totally neglected or whether they receive a daily hosing along with
their cages by callous attendants, it is all one to this type of research worker.”

Massachusetts recently enacted an animal seizure bill on the strength of state-
.ments by the Massachusetts Society for Medical Research and others that experi-
mental animals receive treatment comparable to that given humans and that every
consideration is given to their bodily comfort. The President of the Massachusetts
Society for Medical Research gave a press interview on November 5, 1957 in
which he described himself as an animal lover and assured the public of Laika’s
health and safety in outer space and of the Russians’ intention to bring the dog
back. to earth. An article in the November-December Report emphasized the

l

alarming gap between fact and fancy in these and other Medical Research Society
statements.

Gross cruelty and neglect of dogs,. in, fapanese laboratories, were
cited in the March-April Report, which carried a series of pictures taken in two

[6]

 

 

 

 




 

 

of Tokyo’s largest laboratories, together with a report on conditions in these
laboratories made by the Secretary of the Japan Animal Welfare Society. He stated:
”None of the animals kept in these ﬁlthy cages are ever allowed out for exercise;
food and water is practically non-existent, and were it .not for the visits of our
ladies these wretched creatures would literally starve to death. Pre-and post-
operative care is unknown here, and many of the poor animals die from ex-
posure. . The picture in Japan is not all bad, the Report commented; new
and well designed quarters for experimental rats and dogs have been built at Kyoto
University which might well serve as a model for other Japanese laboratories. Also,
the Japan Animal Welfare Society is providing large amounts of barbiturates for
anesthesia for the laboratories and for euthanasia in the pounds where the animals
were formerly killed painfully with strychnine.

Reviews of “The Status of Animals in the Christian Religion”
by Major C. W. Hume of The Universities Federation for Animal Welfare were
reprinted in the September-October Report. ”The Strategy and Tactics of Experi-
mentation”, an article written by Major Hume for "The Lancet”, was distributed
to readers of the Information Report with the November-December Report. (Extra
copies are still available from the Institute’s offices.)

“Progress in Animal Technician Training” was the title of on article
in the September-October Report, which told of the establishment of comprehensive
animal-caretaker training programs in two major scientiﬁc institutions in New York
—the Roswell Park Memorial Institute at Buffalo and the Berg Institute of New
York University-Bellevue Medical Center at New York City. At the Berg Institute,

the Report stated, the course was designed for superviSory personnel from numerous

scientiﬁc institutions and commercial breeders, because it was felt that such men
were in the best position to institute training in their own establishments; at Roswell
Park, a similar course is open to staff members and required of animal caretakers
and handlers. An article describing this course, written by Dr. Albert R. Shadle,
was reprinted in the September-October Report.

“The Role of Tranquilizers in the Humane Treatment of Animals”,
an article written by Dr. A. H. Quin of Jensen-Salsbery Laboratories, appeared in
the March-April Report. Through selective usage of much-publicized tranquilizer
drugs now widely prescribed by the medical profession, Mr. Quin, stated, “a new
era is opening up in the humane handling of all types of animals.” He told of their
routine use in small and large animal practices, and said extensive ﬁeld trials are
underway in tranquilizing cattle during shipment by truck and train.

Adoption of a Humane Resolution by a United Nations Conference
was described in the May-June Report. The resolution states: ”The United Nations
Conference on the Law of the Sea requests States to prescribe, by all means available
to them, those methods for the capture and killing of marine life, especially of
Whales and seals, which will spare them suffering to the greatest extent possible.”

[7]

 




 

“Callousness Encouraged by Wrong Kind of Science Teaching”,
was the title of an article in the January-February Report. It told of the cruel
behavior of a high school science teacher and students who shot oﬂ‘ a borne-made
rocket containing a live mouse. The article quoted in full the editorial on the sub-
ject by the New York Herald Tribune, which concluded: ”If increased interest in
science is to lead merely to greater callousness the world will not have moved ahead.”

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Contributions to the Animal Welfare Institute are deductible in computing
income ,_tax returns, and donations, large or small, are most gratefully accepted for
the general fund or for special purposes. The extension of the I nstitute’s much
needed work depends upon such support.

Bequests to the Institute will help guarantee the continuance of its work to
protect animals. Please remember the Institute in your will. I

Suggested form of bequest:

I give to the Animal Welfare Institute the sum of ............ dollars (or
if other property, describe the property).

 

 

The Institute’s address is 22 (East 17th Street, New York 3, N. Y.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

Advisory Committee

Dr. Lee R. Dice Dr. Peter Okkelberg David Ricardo : Dr. Joseph Wood Krutch

 

OFFICERS

Christine Stevens, President 0 Alfred R. Glancy, Jr., Vice-President
Estella Draper, Executive Secretary 0 Roger L. Stevens, Treas.
Mary M. Richards, Asst. Treas.

[8]

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 




 




EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
22 East 17th Street

New York 3, New York

 








 

 

 

EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF THE

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
22 East 17th Street, New York 3, N. Y.
(July 1, 1958 to June 30, 1959)

Humane Education

The Animal Welfare Institute has been profoundly concerned by the growing
volume of evidence that a substantial number of high school students has been
encouraged to perform experiments involving surgery or stress on live animals
in their schools and even at home, in improvised and unsupervised laboratories.
Humane men of science agree with the Institute that students below college level
are not yet prepared to undertake animal experimentation: crude experiments, un-
productive of scientiﬁc results, are demoralizing to students who should ideally
be learning that they have a responsibility to treat their domestic animals with
humanity and kindness. For example, Dr. Chauncey Leake, Dean of the College of
Medicine at Ohio State University and President-elect of the American Association
for the Advancement of Science, has stated: ”It seems to me that it is wise to
avoid getting Our youngsters so enthused over biological sciences that they are
anxious, to undertake extensive animal experimentation without the background,
the experience, the judgment, or the wisdom, that is necessary in handling animals
appropriately for complicated biological experimentation. In other words, I think
we had better continue to learn the hard way: there is plenty of biology to be
gotten from a study of unicellular organisms that can be readily obtained in any
high school laboratory, and handled and followed with skill and convenience. We
are apt to get into trouble using animals.”

In order to bring public attention to this problem, the Institute devoted an
entire issue of the Information Report (Vol. 8, No. 2) to some of the more cruel
high school experiments which have been publicized, especially those sanctioned
by the National Science Teachers Association. It also printed some adverse com—
ments from the press and from scientists and educators. The Universities Federa-
tion for Animal Welfare was responsible for the excellent collection of comments
on these experiments from England. Representative were the Resolution of the
British School Nature Study Union to the National Science Teachers Association:

”It should be known that such experiments on living animals would result
in Great Britain in a prosecution under the Cruelty to Animals .Act and we
beg that, where there is no protection by similar acts, the educational world
should act according to the highest moral principles in the matter. . . . Apart
from the fact that pupils must inevitably become regardless of the sufferings
of animals by carrying out these experiments in the guise of cancer research,
they are given a completely false picture of the responsibility and difficulties
of serious research. . .

 




 

and the comments of a British school girl:
”It is a means of letting teenagers indulge a vicious streak. . . . They are
being taught to take life and so hold life very cheaply. Some of them are
probably using the animals as toys and means of amusement.”

A fourth edition of the Institute’s publication, ”First Aid and Care of Small
Animals”, was published this year. The manual, which is intended to increase the
student’s understanding of the needs of wild animals, and to inculcate a humane
attitude towards them, is distributed free to teachers, teachers’ colleges, and li-
braries. Since it was first published in 1955, approximately 31,500 copies have
been distributed.

' 'Onthe advice of scientists and educators who share the Institute’s position
with regard to animal experimentation by children, the Institute is preparing a
pamphlet describing some humane special projects in biology which could replace
cruel nutrition experiments, surgical experiments and similar practices. The projects
will emphasize the substitution of lower for higher forms of life in laboratory
experiments, and the study of normal animal behavior instead of the inﬂiction of
injuryor disease. The pamphlet is to be ready in the fall of 1959. It, too, will
be distributed without charge.

Protection of Un-Domesticated Animals

The Institute prepared testimony in behalf of H.R. 2725, a bill designed to
prevent‘the pursuit of wild horses and burros with motorized equipment. At
present wild horses living on public lands are hunted from airplanes; the hunters
“stampede the horses by ﬁring at them with the intent to wound, but not kill, and
then pursue them until they are exhausted. They are then dragged onto trucks
and transported to the canneries where they are made into pet food.*

The Institute .has been investigating the use of insecticides and poisons by
the Federal Government, and has taken a stand in opposition to the present gov-
ernment policy of indiscriminate dissemination of poisons. It has been distributing
therarticle “Uncontrollable Control”, reprinted from Nature Magazine, an attack
on the government policy regarding the use of rodent poison 1080. 1080 has been
the proved cause of death of many thousand ducks, geese, deer and other animals
who have taken the poisoned grain left as bait for rodents. Since 1080 is a chain-
action poison, any animal eating an animal suffering from 1080 poisoning is almost
certain to die. Animals who have suffered from this are pet dogs, all wild carnivores
including skunks, coyotes, badgers and foxes, and also man. There is no known
antidote to 1080 poisoning. It is estimated that serious damage may be done to
our population of wild animals within a few years if no counter measures are
taken. Several already rare species are being threatened with extinction, including
the Golden Eagle and the Kit Fox. Other poisons, especially insecticides, which
are being sprayed from airplanes over enormous areas, are causing considerable
controversy. It has been suggested that these poisons cause genetic mutations in
wildlife and may cause cancer in man. A bill before Congress would appropriate
$2,565,000 for a study of the effects of these poisons upon fish and wildlife.**

 

*I—I.R._2725 became law on.Se.ptember 8th. This took place after the period covered
. 1n .thls. annual report but is included because of its importance.
"~‘*Thls bill passed Congress on September 10th.

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

Another conservation issue with which the Institute has been actively con-
cerned is the pollution of the seas with oil wastes. These wastes adhere to the
plumage of sea birds, causing their feathers to stick together so that the birds
cannot ﬂy, and therefore die of exposure and starvation. At a recent conference
of the International Council for Bird Preservation, Mr. Lester A. Giles, Jr. of the
American Humane Education Society, in association with Mr. John W. Mann bf
the State Department, announced that an inter-departmental committee had unani-
mously adopted a draft report for submission to the Secretary of State, recom-
mending that the United States adopt the 1954 International Convention for the
Prevention of Pollution of the Sea by Oil. As the United States, with the U.S.S.R.,
Poland, Italy, Panama and Liberia, is one of the few countries which have not
adopted the convention, this move on the part of the State Department is much

to be applauded.

Pending before Congress is the Wilderness Bill, a bill providing for the
protection of wild areas from special interest groups who are seeking to exploit
them and change their character. The Institute in its January-February Information
Report urged support of such legislation, as essential for the prevention of extinc-
tion of many species of wild animals.

Humane Trapping

The Victor~Conibear Trap, which kills rather than holding the animal in a
painful grip from which many seek to escape by gnawing off their own feet, has
been widely accepted by trappers. It has been further improved, and is now out-
selling the Stop-Loss Trap. The Victor-Conibear «Trap is at present being tested
for use on larger animals. A representative of the Institute visited the Animal
Trap Company in Lititz, Pennsylvania, to observe the manufacture of the traps
and learn about the Company’s planning for them. The improvement in com~
mercial humane traps has encouraged many to support humane trapping legis'ation,
which is now for the first time becoming practicable. Humane trapping bills have
been introduced in the Senate by Senator Richard L. Neuberger (D) of Oregon
and in the House by Representative William S. Broomﬁeld (R) of Michigan.

The use of leg-hold traps became illegal in England this year.

Humane Slaughter

The Humane Slaughter Bill, which was passed by the House of Representatives
in February, 1958, was passed by the Senate in July, 1958, and became law on
August 27, 1958. This law, which, it is estimated, will protect 90% of American
food animals, stipulates that all meat packers having government contracts must
use humane methods of slaughter in all of their plants by July, 1960. The passage
of this bill brought to a successful conclusion a three year campaign by humani-
tarians throughout the country.

In recognition of the great services they rendered by fighting for this bill
in the Senate and in the House, the Albert Schweitzer Medal of the Animal

 




 

Welfare Institute was awarded in 1958 to Senator Hubert H. Humphrey (D) of
Minnesota, and in 1959 to Representative W. R. Poage (D) of Texas.

After the passage of the federal law, several state laws were passed, which
will protect animals slaughtered by packers who do not have government contracts,
By June 30, state humane slaughter legislation had passed in Washington, Cal-
ifornia, Minnesota and Wisconsin, and others were pending. Humane slaughter
legislation was also pending in Canada.*

The United States Department of Agriculture issued clear and effective regu-
lations governing the humane slaughter law on February 26, 1959. Approved
methods include carbon dioxide anesthetization, mechanical stunning, the use of
firearms and electrical stunning. The regulations also govern the approach of the
animals to the slaughter pen, forbidding excessive use of electric prods or other
similar devices and requiring a smooth passageway free of projecting nails and
other injurious objects.

The new electrical stunning equipment developed by the Englehorn Packing
Company in Newark, New Jersey was inspected in operation by a representative
of the Institute.

During the year the Hormel Company perfected equipment for the anestheti-
zation of lambs, sheep and calves with carbon dioxide. The Company is the ﬁrst
nation-wide packer which is 100% humane for all species of livestock it slaughters.
It was Mr. L. W. Murphy of Hormel’s who invented carbon dioxide anesthetiza-
tion of hogs as a practical humane slaughter technique.

Improvement of Laboratory Animal Care and Housing

During the year the Institute continued to distribute information about animal
care and hOusing to scientists and technicians on request.

It has distributed to laboratories this year approximately 800 copies of ”Com-
fortable Quarters for Laboratory Animals”, which is a loose~leaf manual designed
to guide institutions which are remodelling their animal quarters, or building
new ones. It reprints successful designs for animal quarters and describes the most
practicable and up-to-date equipment available. This year a third supplement was
published, including 1) plans of the new building of Smith, Kline & French C00
Philadelphia, which has radiant-heated kennels supplied with running water con-
necting with 12-foot long outside runways to which the dogs have access through-
out the daylight hours; 2) plans for dog quarters at the State University of Iowa
College of Medicine where inside kennels (which are equipped with resting
boards) measure 10’ x 5’ and connect with lateral roof runways; 3) drawings of
new dog quarters for the Academisch Ziekenhuis te Leiden, Holland, with indi-
vidual runways; 4) drawings showing economical use of roof space, providing for
dog houses (heated in winter) with sizeable runways which have broad overhang
for shade and shelter from rain; 5) metabolism cages designed by Professor A. N-

 

>1‘él‘ohe19Cszgnadian law was approved July 15, 1959 and the New Hampshire law AUSUSt
, .

i‘-‘_~ A . —‘ _




Worden, measuring 4’ 61/8” x 6’ 7” x 4’ for dogs and 30” x 44” x 33” for cats;
6) photographs and drawings of cat quarters, University of Glasgow, Scotland,
Veterinary Hospital which provide both inside and outside accommodation; 7)
pictures of prefabricated panels for outdoor runways, which prevent possibility
of cross-infection, and a prefabricated self-operating dog door for access between
inside kennels and outside runways; 8) picture and description of short-term
monkey cage at Medical College of South Carolina; 9) pictures and diagram of
short-term chimpanzee quarters at Yerkes Laboratories of Primate Biology, Inc.
of Orange Park, Florida; 10) rat cage from Department of Hygiene, Kyoto Uni-
versity, Japan, the back of which consists of a solid metal box into which nesting
materials are placed; 11) pictures of two opaque plastic cages which provide the dark
retreat small rodents seek, while allowing for clear observations by plastic trans-
parent windows. This supplement was sent to all who had previously received
”Comfortable Quarters for Laboratory Animals”.

The companion manual, ”Basic Care of Experimental Animals”, was revised
and enlarged last year; a German adaptation has also been published in Vienna.
Approximately 5,000 copies of the American edition were distributed to scientists
and scientific institutions last year. ”Basic Care of Experimental Animals” was
recommended reading for United States Air Force medical and veterinary personnel
last year, and was reviewed in Air Force Pamphlet 160 - 15 - 2 ”Professional Book
and Journal List for Air Force Medical Facilities”. The Cornell Veterinarian also
published a highly favorable review of “Basic Care of Experimental Animals”, and
other notices appeared in the Journal of American Veterinary Medical Association,
Science News Letter, ”Catalogo de la Hemerobiblioteca” of the Department of
Physiology of the University School of Medicine, Mexico City; ”Scientific Products”
and the Canadian JOurnal of Comparative Medicine and Veterinary Science.

Both manuals were distributed free on request to scientists and scientiﬁc insti-
tutions. Institutions can obtain a free copy of ”Basic Care of Experimental Ani—
mals” for every person they employ for the care of animals and for every medical
or veterinary student connected with the institution.

The Institute has also been distributing the revised edition of ”The UFAW
Handbook on the Care and Management of Laboratory Animals”. This book,
which is published in England by the Universities Federation for Animal Welfare,
contains 951 pages, and gives a fuller and more technical account of the care,
housing and breeding of laboratory animals. It is available at a cost of $9.80.
The Journal of the Arizericmz Medical Association wrote of the Handbook:

”This second edition is a distinct contribution to the rapidly expanding area
of our knowledge concerning laboratory animals. . . The work as a whole is
probably the outstanding volume in print on the care of laboratory animals.”

The Lancet wrote:

”A book which undoubtedly meets every need likely to arise. It is every-
where obvious that the main inspiration is the wish to keep laboratory animals
in health and comfort primarily in the interests of the animals, but with the
inevitable result that experimental work becomes more reliable. It would be

 

 




 

hard to overstate the importance of this book which should be looked on as a
compulsory purchase by all who undertake animal experiments; no other
single volume approaches it in value.”

The Institute has sold approximately 550 copies to scientists and scientiﬁc
institutions in this c0untry since March, 1958.

The Institute has also been distributing to scientiﬁc institutions throughout
the country a British ﬁlm, ”Handling Laboratory Animals”, which was prepared
by MacQueen Films, in cooperation with the National Institute for Medical Re-
search. It is a 16 mm sound ﬁlm, demonstrating the correct handling of twelve
common species of laboratory animals, and may be rented for $3 per week or

purchased for $65.

The Institute’s bi-monthly Information Reports continue to carry numerous
articles on the subject of animal care and housing in laboratories; the Information
Report is distributed to the 5,611 members of the Federation of American Societies
for Experimental Biology, and to 6,389 other individuals and groups.

Conferences and Meetings Attended by Representatives
of the Animal Welfare Institute

The Animal Welfare Institute 1958 Annual Meeting, October 13,
held in New York. Senator Hubert H. Humphrey, Schweitzer Medalist and
principal speaker, told of the battle to obtain enactment of humane slaughter
legislation. President Madeleine Bemelmans of the Society for Animal Protective
Legislation, and Father Ambrose Agius of the Catholic Animal \X’elfare Society,
addressed the members.

Friends of Animals 1958 Annual Meeting, November 17, held in New
York. This new organization is devoted to the reduction of births of unwanted
puppies and kittens through spaying of pet animals. Its objective is strongly en-
dorsed by the Institute. A

Animal Care Panel 1958 Annual Conference, December 3-5, had in
Chicago. Improvements in size and comfort of some of the animal housing on
exhibit was noted with approval.

National Society for Medical Research National Conference on
the Legal Environment of Medical Science, May 27- 28, 1959, held in
Chicago. The Animal Welfare Institute representative sought to obtain a recom-

mendation against painful animal experiments by high school students, but was
unsuccessful.

Wilderness Conference, March 21, held in San Francisco. Resolutions in
favor of the Wilderness Bill were passed.

 

 

 




 

Animal Welfare Institute 1959 Annual Meeting, June 6, held in New
York. Representative W. R. Poage, Schweitzer Medallist and main speaker, em-
phasized the importance of humane education to buttress animal protective legis-
lation. In response to Mrs. Bemelmans’ talk on the pending bill to protect wild
animals, he pointed out that since they belong to the United States Government,
it is the duty of Congress to provide necessary protection against cruelty to them.
Mr. Robert Schmid, President of Friends of Animals, and Mr. Atwood McAndrew,
Jr., President of the Humane Society of Washtenaw County, Ann Arbor, Michigan,
told the members briefly about the work of their organizations.

Summary of Information Reports

In additional to the subjects speciﬁcally treated above, following are summaries
and excerpts of some of the material which appeared in the Information Reports:

“Animals and Children” was the title of an article, reprinted in
January—February Report from the British Veterinary Journal of Febru-
ary, 1959, which deplored the growing trend toward cruel animal experimen-
tation by young people. It pointed out: ”Children are always anxious to
know more about their pets and in those schools in which the elementary
principles of structure and function are taught, the biology sessions are en-
joyed and serve a most useful purpose. There have been reports that, in
some schools and under the inﬂuence of enthusiastic teachers, the children’s
enquiries into the structure and function of their pet animal has been extended
so that they witness experiments on living animals and are encouraged to
pursue their researches at home. This is a thing to be deplored. Enthusiastic
teachers of this nature should satisfy their search for knowledge in other
spheres, i.e. in research institutions where they would work amongst mature
colleagues and under strict control. They should remember that children are
simply animals in the process of being trained to ﬁt them for adult life.
Children have not a great fund of knowledge on which to draw and they
accept a teacher’s dictates as gospel. If the teacher can see no wrong in
children performing experiments on living animals then the natural conse-
quence is that the boys and girls will likewise accept this diction in all inno-
cence and it is probable that their desire to keep a pet will not be .exc1ted
by the joys of love and companionship but, in order to test the reactions of
the poor dumb beast, by pseudo scientiﬁc methods.”

Criticism from a prominent educator, Dr. E. Laurence Palmer, Professor
Emeritus of Nature and Science Education at Cornell University, and Director of
Nature Education, the American Nature Association, appeared in the May—June
Report, in the form of an article reprinted from ”Nature Magazine”. Under the
heading ”A Question of Judgment”, Dr. Palmer discussed at length the experi-
ments described in “STAR ’58”, and stated:

”I hope that our teacher training program never becomes dedicated to the
taSk Of making even doctors into automatons with a wholly 'impersonal and
OblCCtiVe attitude’ towards any warm-blooded animals. Certainly let us not
deliberately wipe out sympathy at the high school level.”

 




 

 

The use of tranquilizers to abate animal suffering was described in
the November-December and January-February issues. ”Diquel”, a tranquilizer for
cattle developed by Jensen-Salsbery Laboratories, was described as a simple means
of reducing fear and anxiety in cattle suddenly subjected to a series of strange,
uncomfortable and often painful experiences involved in loading, shipping, and
unloading; its use is expected to save the livestock industry as much as one hun-
dred million dollars a year by cutting handling costs and by preventing much of
the loss from bruises and from crippling and death in transit. The Report com-
mented: uIt is regrettable that scientiﬁc institutions have made so little progress
in adopting the use of tranquillizers and other drugs to reduce nervous tension,
discomfort or pain in the animals kept in laboratories.”

A comprehensive account of the campaign to obtain passage of a federal
humane slaughter bill was carried in the September-October Report, which told of
the various steps taken from the time of its introduction in 1953 to its signature
into law on August 27th.

The annual report of the National Society for Medical Research,
chief proponent of the animal seizure bills which seek to undermine humane
societies, was discussed in an editorial in the November-December Information
Report. The National Society for Medical Research Report, by distorting facts in
the animal seiZure law controversy, implied that all who oppose are antivivisec-
tionists; it described as ”a vicious attack on animal research” the excellent factual
article by Paul W. Kearney, published by Coronet Magazine last year which called
for the reform, not abolition, of animal experimentation. The Institute’s Informa-
tion Report editorially stated: “This failure to analyze the exact nature of the
opposition, in combination with the smear techniques already described, will not
lead to clear thinking on the problems of animal experimentation. . . This stirring
up of emotionalism seems to us particularly deplorable in a pamphlet presented
as the annual report of a scientiﬁc society.”

“Where Should Laboratory Dogs Come From?” was the title of an
article in the May-June Information Report, which made clear the Institute’s
position on animal seizure legislation. The Report stated that the Institute has
never prevented any needed experiment from taking place by any means whatever,
and has never objected to purchase of animals from public pounds or to other
commercial transactions involving the buying of animals by laboratories. However,
it continued, the Institute does believe that “legislation of the type sponsored by
the National Society for Medical Research to compel humane societies to release
animals from their shelters for use in laboratories for experimental work of all
types, regardless of the pain which might be inﬂicted, was .morally wrong and
should be resisted by all available means.” The Institute’s position on procurement
programs, presented in its prospectus in 1951, was repeated: ”Procurement Pro-
grams: The survey of existing and proposed programs for the procurement of
laboratory animals in an effort to discover the best method of satisfying the needs
of humanity in the advancement of medicine, public health, agriculture, etc., with-
out jeopardizing practical animal welfare work or the general advancement of
humanity through increasing consideration for all living creatures.”

 

 

 




 

 

 

The pressure on animal protective societies, to force them to give up the
principles on which they were founded, very nearly succeeded in breaking the
back of the humane movement, the Report concluded. ”In 1946 when the National
Society for Medical Research began its campaign, there were only two types of
societies of any strength or consequence which concerned themselves with cruelty
to animals: 1) societies which operated shelters (many of which had taken over
operation of pounds to prevent the cruelty formerly practiced there), and 2) anti-
vivisection societies. If the non-antivivisectionist societies could be used to procure
animals and their names used as an endorsement of limitless experimentation on
animals from their own shelters, then only the easy-to-discredit anti-vivisection
societies would be left; for the moral stature of the shelter societies would be lost
and no more than a shadowy memory of their original strength for combatting
cruelty would remain. It may not have been intentional, but the results of National
Society for Medical Research policy have been anti-humane rather than anti-anti-
vivisectionist. In at least one city where an animal seizure law is in effect, one has
only to walk down the street seeking the owner of a lost puppy to have one ordinary

’l)

person after another warn, 'Whatever you do, don’t take the pup to the SPCA .

The conclusion of the case of cruelty to laboratory dogs, involving
a Massachusetts research doctor and his animal caretaker, was reported in the
September-October issue. After having earlier appealed the charge of cruelty to
dogs which had undergone major heart surgery and tests on the heart-lung machine,
both doctor and caretaker pleaded guilty and paid ﬁnes.

 

 

Contributions to the Animal Welfare Institute are deductible in computing
income tax returns, and donations, large or small, are most gratefully accepted
for the general fund or for special purposes. The extension of the Institute’s

much needed work depends upon such support.

 

 

 

 

 

 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
Advisory Committee

Dr. Lee R. Dice Dr. Peter Okkelberg David Ricardo Dr. Joseph Wood Krutch

OFFICERS
Christine Stevens, President . Alfred R. Glancy, Jr., Vice-President
Estella Draper, Executive Secretary 0 Roger L. Stevens, Treas.

Mary M. Richards, Asst. Treas.

 




 




NINTH ANNUAL REPORT

Illustration from “Humane Biology Projects”,
new free manual for teachers

ANIMAL WELFARE. INSTITUTE
22 East 17th Street
eW York 3, N. Y.

 




 

NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF THE
ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

22 East 17th Street, New York 3, New York
(July 1, 1959 to June 30, 1960)

Protection of Laboratory Animals

The most important step ever taken toward the protection of laboratory
.animals in this country was the introduction in the United States Senate on May
18 of S. 3570, "An Act to provide for the humane treatment of animals used in
experiment and tests by recipients of grants from the United States and by agencies
and instrumentalities of the United States Government, and for other purposes.”
The measure was introduced by the Hon. John Sherman Cooper (R., Ky.) and
12 co-sponsors: Hon. E. L. Bartlett (D., Alaska), Hon. Robert C. Byrd (D.,
W. Va.), Hon. Joseph S. Clark (D., Pa), Hon. Ernest Gruening (D., Alaska),
Hon. Estes Kefauver (D., Tenn), Hon. Mike Mansﬁeld (D. Mont), Hon. Pat
McNamara (D., Mich), Hon. Wayne Morse (D., Oreg.), Hon. William Proxmire
(D., Wis), Hon. Jennings Randolph (D., W. Va.), Hon. Harrison Williams, Jr.
(D., N.J.), Hon. Frank Church (D., Idaho). Identical bills were introduced in
the HOuse of Representatives by the Hon. Martha Griﬁ‘iths (D., Mich), the Hon.
Cleveland M. Bailey (D., W. Va.), and the Hon. James C. Oliver (D., Maine).

This proposed legislation, designed to prevent unnecessary cruelty to animals
used in research institutions receiving Federal grants and in departments and
agencies of the Federal Government, is now pending in both Senate and House.
At the time of it introduction, Senator Cooper stated:

“I am aware that there are those who have raised objection to this proposal. Yet
it seems to me that the objectives of the bill are such that they are entitled to be
considered by the appropriate committees of the Congress. I do not say that the
language is perfect or that every approach is necessarily the proper one. Certainly,
the objectives of the bill are worthwhile, and it merits earnest attention. I am in-
formed that this bill would not inhibit or prevent experimental research. Nor is it
my intention or that of the co-sponsors of this bill to do so. Its basic goal is to insure
that in experiments requiring the use of animals, precautions will be taken and every
effort will be made to conduct such experiments in a manner that is as humane as

possible.”

The Cooper bill, like the British Act of 1876 on whose principles it is based,
will not hamper research, but will encourage scientiﬁc work of the highest quality
and, by establishing humane standards having the force of law, will protect
scientists from unwarranted attacks at the same time as it protects animals from
unnecessary suffering. Among other provisions, the bill requires personal li-
censing of every scientist using animals in any institution supported in whole
or in part by the taxpayers’ money. It provides for removal of a scientist’s
license to experiment, and withholding of Federal funds, if he is guilty of in-
humane actions. It requires that experimental plans be pre-filed with the Secretary

 

 

 




 

 

of the Department of Health, Education and Welfare. It provides that proper
records be kept concerning the use and disposal of animals. And it provides for
Federal government inspection of the vast majority of the country’s laboratories,
to insure adherence to humane standards of care, housing and experimentation.
In short, the proposed legislation will protect animals from abuse, but will not
hamper responsible research.

Commenting editorially on the bill, on June 6, the Wily/Jington (D.C.) P05!
stated:

“Real research will not be restricted by a law requiring decent care, feeding and
housing of animals awaiting experimentation. In many experiments, it will not be
inhibited by a little extra effort expended to anesthetize animals or to put them out
of their misery when the experiment has been completed. The standards ought to be
ﬁxed by scientists themselves and they ought to make ample allowance even for remote
possibilities of advancing human knowledge. But some setting and enforcement of
standards are necessary to keep sadism from being confused with science.”

A striking example of the type of housing that would not be permitted if
the Cooper bill were enacted exists at the Food and Drug Administration in
Washington, DC, where over 200 beagles are being kept for periods of two
to seven years in a sub-basement, in 30” x 36” cages, from which they are never
removed for exercise. This year, as a result of protests from humanitarians, hear-
ings were held before a Senate sub-committee. Food and Drug Administration
ofﬁcials requested funds to build a laboratory-kennel building in which the dogs
could have outside runways. To date, such funds have not been made available,
and these animals being used for the public beneﬁt remain caged in their window-
less basement rooms, with nothing to rest on but the metal mesh ﬂoors of their
cages, and no means of normal exercise.*

"The Principles of Humane Experimental Technique”

This year the Institute distributed an excellent new book for investigators
who use experimental animals entitled ”The Principles of Humane Experimental
Technique”, published by Methuen & Co., Ltd, London. Representing ﬁve years
of study by Dr. W. M. 8. Russell and Mr. R. L. Burch, under the sponsorship of
the Universities Federation for Animal Welfare, the book presents a full discussion
of the three main modes of making experiments both more humane and more
efﬁcient:

replacement of animals as objects of experiment by insentient material such
as tissue cultures;

reduction in the numbers of animals used to obtain results of given precision,
chieﬂy by controlling individual variation in their physiological responses;

reﬁnement of procedures employed when animals still have to be used.

*As this report goes to press, we learn that $100,000 has been approved by Congress for
the planning of a laboratory-kennel building during the Congressional recess.

 




 

The book should be of particular interest to experimental biologists and those
engaged in human and veterinary medicine, teaching and the pharmaceutical in-
dustry. It is available from the Institute at $4.20 per copy.

' Humane Education

The latest publication of the Institute—a 47-page, illustrated manual entitled
"Humane Biology Projects”——was completed in April and made available upon
request to high school teachers. One copy is provided free to any teacher who
requests it, and supplies in bulk to principals and superintendents; to all others
it is sold at cost, 25¢. The manual is a collection of experiments, demonstrations
and. projects for classrooms and Science Fairs and the Institute is grateful to the
scientists and educators who generously cooperated in its preparation. It has
chapters on Ecology and Conservation, Bacteriology, Animal Behavior, Genetics,
Botany and Physiology. It is hoped that this manual, which emphasizes the sub-
stitution of lower for higher forms of life in laboratory experiments, and the study
of normal animal behavior instead of the inﬂiction of injury or disease, will help
teachers to give sound scientiﬁc training and develop close observation and original
thinking in their students. The preface contributed by Rachel Carson, distinguished
author of ”The Sea Around Us”, states:

“It is essential that the beginning student should ﬁrst become acquainted with the
true meaning of his subject through observing the lives of creatures in their true
relation to each other and to their environment. To begin by asking him to observe
artiﬁcial conditions is to create in his mind distorted conceptions and to thwart the
development of his natural emotional response to the mysteries of the life stream of

which he is a part. Only as a child’s awareness and reverence for the wholeness of
life are developed can his humanity to his own kind reach its full development.”

The Institute also gratefully acknowledges the contributions to the manual
by Dr. Charles G. Wilber, Chief, Comparative Physiology Branch, Directorate of
Medical Research, US. Army Chemical Warfare Laboratories, Army Chemical
Center; Dr. Dorothy D. Hammond, Assistant Professor of Biology, Hunter Col~
lege; Dr. Lee R. Dice, former Director, Institute of Human Biology, University
of Michigan; Dr. H. W. Youngken, Jr., Dean, College of Pharmacy, University
of Rhode Island; Dr. Ernest P. Walker, former Assistant Director, National
Zoological Park, Smithsonian Institution; Dr. L. S. McClung, Chairman, Committee
on Education, Society of American Bacteriologists; Dr. R. Dean Schick, Professor
of Science, New York State University of Education; Miss Betty E. Bayliss of the
School Nature Study Union, England, (from whose journal much of the work
has been reprinted with modiﬁcations); and the following members of the staff
of the New York Botanical Garden: Dr. Marjorie Anchel, Dr. Alma Barksdale,
Mr. Charles C. Clare, Jr., Dr. Richard Klein and Dr. David J. Rogers. Publica-

tion of this manual was made possible through the fine generosity of The Ingram
Merril Foundation.

. The Institute’s other publication for school use, ”First Aid and Care of Small
Animals”, 15 now in its fourth edition; it continues to be widely used throughout

this country and Canada in primary and secondary schools, to whose teachers it is
provided free upon request.

 

 

 




 

 

 

Protection of Wildlife

The Institute has become increasingly concerned over the indiscriminate dis-
semination by the Federal Government of insecticides and poisons which have
inﬂicted severe damage on ﬁsh and wildlife. It submitted testimony in favor of
the pesticides coordination bills which were introduced in Congress by Repre-
sentative Leonard G. Wolf (D., Iowa) and Senator Warren G. Magnuson (D.,
Wash). The bills’ purpose was to provide for advance consultation with the Fish
and Wildlife Service and with State wildlife agencies before the beginning of any
Federal program involving the mass use of pesticides.

Half of the November-December Information Report was devoted to an
article on the effect of the most ”popular” new poisons on life, which quoted
Dr. George J. Wallace, zoologist at Michigan State University, Dr. Malcolm M.
Hargraves of Mayo Clinic, and others on the dangers of these highly toxic chlo—
rinated hydrocarbons and organic phosphates. Effective action to stop unnecessary
dissemination of poison is urgently needed for the protection of our wildlife, our
domestic animals and ourselves.

Some progress was made during the year in the effort to prevent pollution
of the seas with oil wastes, which kills birds by clinging to their plumage so that
they cannot ﬂy. On February 15, the President sent to the Senate for advice and
consent to acceptance the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution
of the Sea by Oil. An inter-departmental committee of the State Department had
recommended that the United States accept, with minor reservations, this Con-
vention which is now adhered to by countries representing nearly half the world’s
tanker shipping. It is hoped that our country will soon ratify this Convention,
and that other countries will follow our example.

Laboratory Animal Care and Housing

The Institute continued distribution of free information about animal care
and housing to scientists and technicians, upon request, including its loose leaf,
74-page publication ”Comfortable Quarters for Laboratory Animals”. This
manual, containing ﬂoor plans, construction details, etc., is designed to guide in-
stitutions in remodelling their animal quarters or designing new ones; one copy
is provided to each institution without charge. Copies are also sent upon request
to architectural firms planning animal quarters.

The companion manual, ”Basic Care of Experimental Animals”, was also
distributed to scientiﬁc institutions during the year. This latter 68-page manual
is written in simple language and illustrated, with chapters on the animals most
commonly used in laboratories, and appendices on nutrition and transportation.
Copies may be obtained from the Institute free upon request by scientiﬁc institu-
tions, in sufﬁcient number so that every person employed in the care of animals
and every medical or veterinary medical student may have an individual copy.
The manual is now in use in 48 States and 43 foreign countries, and translations
have been made into Japanese and German.

 

 




 

 

The Institute also continued distribution of the revised edition of ”The UFAW
Handbook on the Care and Management of Laboratory Animals”, a 951-page
illustrated book published in England by the Universities Federation for Animal
Welfare, which gives full and technical information on care, housing and breed-
ing of laboratory animals. It is available at $9.80.

A British ﬁlm, ”Handling Laboratory Animals”, which complements the
publications of the Institute, is also available to scientiﬁc institutions from the
Institute. Produced by MacQueen Films, in cooperation with the National In-
stitute for Medical Research in England, it demonstrates correct handling of
twelve common species of laboratory animals. It is available for rental at $3 per
week or for purchase at $65.

Articles on the care and housing of laboratory animals are also published
in the bi-monthly Information Reports of the Institute. The Reports are distrib-
uted to the, members of the Federation of American Societies for Experimental
Biology as well as to 5,683 other individuals and groups.

An encouraging development reported in the September-October Information
Report was the excellent statement regarding the welfare of laboratory animals
which was included in the Report of the Senate Committee on Appropriations:

“It has come to the attention of the committee that many of the research pro-
grams to be operated with the appropriations provided in this bill involve the use of
animals for experimentation and that in many instances totally inadequate facilities
are provided for housing them in a humane manner consistent with the experiments
being conducted. The committee strongly urges that every effort be made to provide

suitable and comfortable quarters and that these animals not be subjected to the un-
necessary cruelty involved in their being carelessly and improperly housed.

“The maintenance of such quarters for animals used in research is a proper
expense of such activities.”

In view of this statement concerning research done with government grants,
it is urged that grantees take sufﬁcient interest in the well-being of the animals
in their charge to make sure they are given proper care and housing. Since 1956,
Federal funds have been available, on a matching basis, to non-proﬁt scientific
institutions for construction, expansion and/or equipping research facilities, in-
cluding quarters for laboratory animals. A sum not to exceed $30,000,000 per
year was approved by Congress for this purpose for 1960, 1961 and 1962. The
Institute believes that comfortable quarters for the animals used in research should
be regarded by all institutions as morally obligatory. This generous government
provision for both construction and equipment makes possible the elimination of
bad animal quarters wherever the will exists to give research animals decent space
for exercise, comfortable resting places and sanitation adequate to prevent the
spread of disease. - ‘

Humane Slaughter

New Hampshire in August, 1959, and Massachusetts in June, 1960, joined
Washington, California, Minnesota and Wisconsin in adopting state humane
slaughter laws. In several other States, similar bills were introduced but did not




pass. The uniform state humane slaughter bill approved by the Council on State
Governments is expected to be introduced next year in many States. In Canada
on July 15, 1959, Parliament enacted humane slaughter legislation which will
protect an estimated 80% of the animals slaughtered in that country.

In preparation for the July 1, 1960 deadline for compliance with the Federal
humane slaughter bill, packers were making the change-over throughout the year
to one of the accepted humane methods. Great credit is due to the National
Provisioner, weekly magazine of the packing industry, which devoted an entire
issue on January 9 to the subject of humane slaughter. This issue provided all
facts needed by packers concerning installation of every type of humane slaughter-
ing equipment.

A last-minute attempt to avoid compliance with the Federal law in purchases
under $2,500 was made by the Military Subsistence Supply Agency, purchaser of
all meat for the armed forces. This attempt was promptly and effectively blocked
by Senator Hubert H. Humphrey and Representative W. R. Poage, chief sponsors
of the legislation in the Senate and House, and Representative Martha Grifﬁths,
who immediately pointed out that such an attempted exemption was illegal. In a
strongly worded speech on the Senate ﬂoor, Sen. Humphrey stated:

“The law is clear . . . The packers have had from a year and a half to two years
to bring themselves into compliance . . . It requires no more bookkeeping or intelli-
gence in the procurement section of the Army to procure meat products according to
law than it does to avoid its impact. I suggest that the Department of the Army
get in step at once. It is out of step. I propose that those in charge of this activity
read the act and comply with its provisions.”

On June 14th, Sen. Humphrey was informed by the Army that it will comply
in full with the provisions of the Federal Humane Slaughter Law.

Summary of Information Reports

In addition to the subjects speciﬁcally treated above, following are summaries
and excerpts of some of the material which appeared in the bi—monthly Informa-
tion Reports:

An analysis of the opposition to the Cooper laboratory animals bill, from such
extremes as the National Anti-Vivisection Society and the National Society for
Medical Research, was printed in the May-June Report; it was pointed out that
the Cooper bill is similar to the British Act, which is the most practical and
effective legislation in this field ever enacted. Six editorials in support of the
measure, from the Louisville (Ky) Courier-Journal, Washington (DC) Post,
Troy (N.Y.) Times-Record, Washington (DC) Evening Star, Asbury Park
(NJ) Evening Press and Hartford (Conn) Courant, were reprinted in full. (In
addition to these papers, fine editorial support has been given by The Daily News,
(Springﬁeld, Mass), Fort Wayne (Indi) News-Sentinel, The Asheville (N.C.)
Citizen, The Cincinnati (Ohio) Enquirer, The Sacramento (Calif) Bee, The
Progress-Index, (Petersburg, Va.), The Pontiac (Mich) Press, The Waco (Tex)
News-Tribune, Bergen (NJ) Evening Record, Tacoma (Wash) News Tribune,
Trenton (NJ) Times, The Town Crier (Westport, Conn), Louisville (Ky.)
Times, Elizabeth (NJ) Daily Journal, Barre-Montpelier (Vt) Times-Argus,
Meriden (Conn.) Journal, Peru (1nd.) Republican, Bronxville (N.Y.) Review
Press-Reporter, Huntington (N.Y.) Long Islander, Star-News, (Pasadena, Calif),

 

 




 

 

Auburn (N.Y.) Citizen Advertiser, Modesto (Calif) Bee, Fresno (Calif) Bee,
Waco (Tex) Times-Herald and the Waterbury (Conn) American).

The complete text of the bill was printed in the March-April Report, along
with Senator Cooper’s remarks at the time of the bill’s introduction. Legislation
requiring decent care and housing for animals and humane design of experiments,
the Report stated, will help men of good will in every part of a scientific insti-
tution to obtain the best results under the best conditions. After explaining that
the record-keeping required by the bill would not be an onerous task, the Report
concluded: ”Surely it is well worth this very minor effort to ensure high humane
standards for American research. Those who pay the taxes from which ever grow-
ing research funds are obtained (a 65% increase in government funds for medical
research was requested by research leaders on May 19) have a right to effective
guarantees that animals are never used unnecessarily or subjected to needless

suffering.”

Excerpts fro-m the remarks of Dr. P. L. C. Carrier, Chief Inspector of the
Home Office which administers the Act regulating animal experiments in Great
Britain, before the annual meeting of the Animal Care Panel, were published in
the November-December Report. uThe Act does not interfere with the progress
of science”, he said. ”We only want to make sure animals do not go through
unnecessary suffering. We won’t allow animals to die in agony.”

The ”Pain Rules” under the British Act are as follows:

a) If .an animal at any time during the said experiment is found to be suffering
pain which is either severe or is likely to endure, and if the main result of the
experiment has been attained, the animal shall forthwith be painlessly killed;

b) If an_ animal at any time during any of the said experiments is found to be
suffering severe pain which is likely to endure, such animal shall forthwith
be painlessly killed;

c) If an animal appears to an Inspector to be suffering considerable pain, and
if .such Inspector directs such animal to be destroyed, it shall forthwith be
painlessly killed.

The many great discoveries made in Britain by men working under these
Pain Rules were cited by Major C. W. Hume, Secretary General of the Universities
Federation for Animal Welfare, whose address to the Animal Care Panel was also
reported in the November-December Report. Major Hume pointed out that some
10 Nobel prizes have been awarded for physiology and medicine in Britain.

* * *

The new editorial policy of the American Physiological Society, prohibiting
publication of papers involving improper use of experimental animals, was an-
nounced in the March-April Report, and the Society was congratulated. The
Report reprinted the following announcement from the January, 1960 issue 0f
the American Journal of Physiology:

:‘Papers submitted to the American Journal of Physiology or the Journal of
Applied Phys1010gy,.about which question is raised as to the proper use or care of
the experimental animals, will be referred to the Committee of the Society on Use

and Care of Animals In cases where there is evidence of improper use, the papers
Will not be conSIdered further for publication.”

 

.rvr. ..

 




 

The Report commented that this new editorial policy for the two publica-
tions, if strictly observed, will be an excellent incentive for the humane planning

of experiments.
:f: :f: *

Two outstandingly well-prepared and humane articles on the care and housing
of experimental dogs, which appeared in the Proceedings of the Animal Care
Panel, were praised and summarized in the March-April Report. Both articles
recognized the need of experimental dogs for companionship of another dog
whenever possible, thorOugh and capable veterinary supervision during sickness
and convalescence, space for exercise, a comfortable resting place, good food and
fresh water. In the article, ”Preoperative and Postoperative Care of the Laboratory
Dog” by Mr. N. Bleicher, the Report stated, a detailed description of good care
for dogs used in experimental surgery is given which might well be used as a
model for all institutions. Mr. Bleicher stressed the need for patience, time and
gentle treatment, and stated: “The detection of pain in the dog is often quite
difﬁcult. This, unfortunately, has led many people to assume that pain is not
present postoperatively. . . . We must constantly be aware of the responsibility to
detect pain when present and to administer suitable analgesics, local or systemic.”
The second article, by Drs. A. C. Anderson and H. R. Baker, entitled uThe Pro-
duction and Use of Beagles for Radiobiological Research”, pointed out two factors
contributing to the general health of the dog: proper nutrition and the provision
of at least 10 square feet of pen area per inch of body height for each dog. The
article concluded: ”We feel that the four main factors contributing to a successful
kennel are: 1. Adequate space for voluntary exercise. 2. Maintaining dogs in
pairs for companionship. 3. Proper nutrition. 4. Rational use of therapeutic

measures.”
:x< >i< a:

Another step toward increasing use of chemicals instead of live animals in
testing chemical substances was announced in the January-February Report. Tests
by the Food and Drug Administration to determine the strength of Vitamin D
preparations, which formerly used rats or chicks, are now entirely chemical, the

Report stated.
>1< a< *

Two encouraging developments in the effort to prevent painful experiments
by immature youths were cited in the September-October Report:

1) The 1960 Science Achievement Awards for Students, conducted by the
Future Scientists of America Foundation of the National Science Teachers Asso-
ciation, announced a new rule stating that no project reports giving evidence either
Of unsafe procedures in experimentation with rockets or of cruel and inhumane
treatment of animals would. be considered for awards.

2) In response to letters of protest against the expenditure of Government
funds to encourage high school experimentation with animals, the Chief of the
Division of Research Grants of the Department of Health, Education and Welfare
announced that no additional grants would be made to high school teachers for
any purpose.

 

 




 

Readers of the Information Report were urged to join in protesting large
grants of tax funds for cruel experiments by high school students currently being
provided by the National Science Foundation in Washington, an independent
Federal agency over which the Department of Health, Education and Welfare
has no control. The Report commented: ”There is no need, in any scientiﬁc pro-
gram for high school students, to inﬂict suffering on animals. A simple ruling by
the National Science Foundation in the awarding of grants could put an end to
painful experiments by high school students working under its sponsorship. It is
important that the National Science Foundation be made aware of the deep con-
cern felt by citizens throughout the nation.”

False claims by the promoters of children’s experiments on animals, to create
the illusion that launching of home-made rockets containing live mice have the
endorsement and enc0uragement of responsible scientists and government agencies,
were refuted in the September-October Report. Dr. Wernher von Braun, inter-
nationally known missile expert, ﬂatly denied that he had congratulated three
youngsters preparing to launch a mouse-carrying missile, as had been reported in
an Associated Press dispatch; Mr. T. Keith Glennan, Administrator of the Na-
tional Aeronautics and Space Administration, denied that the NASA. was di-
recting construction of a mouse-carrying rocket being built by Long Island, New
York, Boy Scouts, as had been reported in a New York newspaper.

Humanitarians who have long been demanding the abolition of cruel animal
experiments in the teaching of high school science were heartened by the splendid
article "A Question of Value” by Dorothy Thompson which appeared in the
February Ladier H ome ] 02177241, and which, with the kind permission of the [02117741,
was mailed to readers of the Information Report with the January-February issue.
Miss Thompson, protesting the unnecessary cruelty being inﬂicted in the name of

"science teaching” and the resulting demoralizing effects on the children, stated:

“In the long run, it would seem nations and civilizations rise or decline according
to the values they are able to cultivate, maintain and transmit, and I know of no
civilization that has long endured whose values were purely economic, material and

‘scientiﬁc’ . . . I submit that in the education of children and adolescent youth,
nothing should enter the curriculum that tends to produce unfeeling callousness.”

An editorial entitled ”Cruelty to Teen-agers”, from the New York Daily Newr,
was reprinted in the same Report. ”A person without pity and without sympathy
is not a fully developed human being”, the editorial stated. ”An older person
who blunts or destroys a youngster’s instincts of pity and sympathy comes close to
committing a crime against the youngster”.

”Humane Science Teaching” was the title of an article written for the ‘No-
vember-December Report by Miss Mabel E. Crafts, Chairman of the Animal
Welfare Committee of the Florida Federation of Humane Societies, which told of
the following splendid rules adopted by the Florida State Department of Public
Instruction concerning science teaching in the public schools of Florida:

“1) Animals being observed by students should always. be maintained in the
max1mum possible condition of health, comfort and well-being.
“2_) No vertebrate animal used for primary or secondary school teaching may

be subjected to any experiment or procedure which interferes with its normal
health or causes it pain or distress.”

 

 

dﬁ.m*T1C/’<W"‘U

 

 

 




The television code relating to cruelty to animals, adopted by the National
Association of Broad-casters, was reprinted in the January-February Report, and
readers were asked to refer to this code when complaining to a station concerning
a prOgram showing cruelty. The code, to which all major networks and 380 in-
dependent stations subscribe, states as follows:

“The use of horror for its own sake will be eliminated; the use of visual or aural
effects which would shock or alarm the viewer, and the detailed presentation of
brutality or physical agony by sight or by sound are not permissible.

“The use of animals both in the production of television programs and as a part
of television program content, shall at all times be in conformity with accepted
standards of humane treatment.”

A tribute to the late Senator Richard L. Neuberger, whose interest in the
protection of animals and in the conservation of our natural resources was widely
known, appeared in the March-April Report. Noting his crusading spirit and his
vigorous support for various conservation measures including the Wilderness Bill
still pending before Congress, the Report stated: ”This bill would preserve in
perpetuity a tiny part of the magniﬁcent wild mountains, forests, rivers, lakes and
seashore of our country. It will be a great tribute to the memory of the Senator if
the bill is passed. For the country, it will be a triumph of wisdom and restraint that
will be admired for centuries. It will stand as a memorial to a truly great man.”

 

 

 

Contributions to the Animal Welfare Institute are deductible in computing
income tax returns, and donations, large or small, are most gratefully accepted
for the general fund or for special purposes. The extension of the Institute’s

much needed work depends upon such support.

 

 

 

 

 

 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
Advisory Committee

Dr. Lee R. Dice Dr. Peter Okkelberg David Ricardo Dr. Joseph Wood Krutch

Christine Stevens, President ' Alfred R. Glancy, Jr., Vice-President
Estella Draper, Executive Secretary ' Roger L. Stevens, Treas.

Mary M. Richards, Asst. Treas.

Illustration from “Humane Biology Projests”, new free manual for teachers.
Cover photograph by Ernest P. Walker.

 




 




TENTH ANNUAL REPORT

 

 

 

 

Prize-Winning painting from the humane education program
of the Tanganyika Branch of the R.S.P.C.A., Whose President
and Founder received the Albert Schweitzer Award for 1960.

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
22 East 17th Street
New York 3, N. Y.

 




 

TENTH ANNUAL REPORT OF THE

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
22 East 17th Street, New York 3, N. Y.
(July 1, 196-0 to June 30, 1961)

For the ﬁrst time the Albert Schweitzer Award of the Animal Welfare Insti-
tute was made in Africa, the continent in which Dr. Schweitzer developed his
philospohy of Reverence for Life. Chief A. S. Fundikira, President, and Mrs.
Isobel Slater, Executive Director and founder of the Tanganyika Branch of the
Royal Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals. were joint winners and
medals were presented to both.

The award was made in behalf of the Institute by the Hon. G. Mennen
Williams, newly appointed Assistant Secretary of State for African Affairs, on
his ﬁrst trip to Africa after assuming oﬂice.

The Hon. Adlai E. Stevenson, United States Representative to the United
Nations, spoke on the Schweitzer Award at the annual meeting of the Animal Wel-
fare Institute on May 26th. He praised the work in Tanganyika where some 800
branches comprising over 40,000 members of the Society have been formed and
urged continuing efforts concluding with the following words: “I think it would
be a wonderful thing for Africans and for the superb wild life of that great con-
tinent if the Society established afﬁliates in other African countries. With its
magnificent record in Tanganyika I would think that all African governments in-
terested in fostering animal welfare and preserving this priceless heritage would be
delighted to see a chapter of the Society established in their territories. Finally,
to Chief Fundikira and Mrs. Isobel Slater, the Society’s founder and co-recipient
of the Schweitzer Medal, I wish every success in their glorious crusade for the
preservation and humane treatment of all living things.”

Protection of Laboratory Animals by Law

On January sixth, the Hon. Martha Griffiths (D. Mich.) again introduced
her bill for the humane treatment of laboratory animals used in research institu-
tions receiving Federal grants and in departments and agencies of the Federal
Government. The bill, HR. 1937, was referred to the House Committee on In-
terstate and Foreign Commerce where it is now pending.

HR. 1937 is based on the principles of the Act of 1876 which regulates
animal experimentation in Britain. This Act was petitioned for by Charles Darwin,
Thomas Huxley and the major British scientific organizations whose support it
continues to receive. In the United States, however, the violent opposition of the
National Society for Medical Research has discouraged the broad scientiﬁc support
merited by H.R.1937. Nevertheless, individUal scientists of independent mind

2

 

 

 




 

 

 

are supporting the legislation. Dr. Bradley T. Scheer, Chairman of the Biology
Department, College of liberal Arts, University of Oregon, in a letter published
in Sczeme, September 23, 1960, pointed out that the attacks upon this bi 11 gave
a false idea of its nature and intent. Stating that the issue of humane treatment
itself is a moral one, Dr. Scheer added, “I cannot ﬁnd in this bill the evils which
the National Society for Medical Research or Science profess to see, and I would
urge my colleagues who are interested in animal experimentation, humane treat-
ment, or both, to read the bill with care, to make their own appraisals on the
basis of their own judgments, and to communicate these judgments to their repre-
sentatives in the Congress.”

Dr. Leon Bernstein, Assistant Professor, Department of Environmental Med-
icine, School of Hygiene, Johns Hopkins University, wrote on May 3lst commend~
ing the Institute on the arguments advanced in favor of HR. 1937. He told of
his 18 years of work under the British Act regulating animal experiments and
concluded, ”It is distressing to see what we usually think of as the unprincipled
methods of politicians and demagogues — the half-truths, the downright mis~
representation and misquotation, the things taken out of context, the repetition. of
traveller’s tales, and the assertion of hypotheses as though they were established
fact—being used by scientiﬁc societies to obstruct legislation that would certainly
not be against the interests of their members.” His letter was published by per-
mission in the May-June Information Report.

Dr. Herbert Rackow, defending the bill from attack in the Letters to the
Editor column of the New York Timer, called attention to the support of British
scientists for the British Act and concluded that the ”bill is patterned after that
law and it ought to be supported by our own scientists.”

Unable to give any rational answer to facts about the British Act, opponents
have stooped to denigration of scientiﬁc work in Britain and seek especially to
belittle British surgery. Accordingly, Major C. W. Hume, Secretary-General of
the Universities Federation for Animal Welfare, sought the opinion of Sir Arthur
Porritt, President of the Royal College of Surgeons of England. His reply, pub-
lished in the May-June Report, vigorously refuted these attacks stating, . . very
considerable advances in medical and scientiﬁc knowledge have been made in
this country during the last ﬁfty years. Many of these necessitated experiments on
animals, but I am sure it is true to say that no research requiring animal experi-
mentation has. been abandoned, remained incomplete or not been undertaken be-
cause of existing Home Ofﬁce regulations.” With regard to the training of students
in operative surgery, he gave as the British view that ”the best method is by student
apprenticeship to mature surgeons rather than the repetitive performance of
operations on animals.”

A short article from. the distinguished English medical journal T/ae'Lamet,
of February 25, reprinted in the January-February Report, stated in part: ”The
bill is being somewhat ﬁercely assailed on one side by antivisectionists and on the
other by their more extreme opponents. The latter have represented British med-
ical science as of inferior quality through a supposed frustration of medical research

3

 

 




 

by the Home Ofﬁce control. For instance, an assertion which is widely current is
to the effect that the British Act requires a separate document to be ﬁled in respect
of every individual animal used. In View of such allegations, the Universities
Federation for Animal Welfare sent a questionary to all biological fellows of the
ROyal Society, and the replies have shown an overwhelming concensus in favour
of Home Ofﬁce control. As one of them says, ‘the Act of 1876 stops the frivolous
but not the responsible worker’.” A most interesting summary by Major Hume of
UFAW of the responses was published under the title ”Opinions of British Sci-
entists on Home Ofﬁce Control of Experiments on Animals" and was circulated
with the January-February Report. It is available on request from the Institute.

Dr. John R. Baker, Department of Zoology and Comparative Anatomy, Uni-
versity Museum, Oxford, having been quoted in an editorial in Science against
the bill, stated in a letter printed in Science, December 23rd, ”I have studied
this bill and hope that it will be enacted, for it has my full approval. I am a
licensed vivisector under the laws of my own country.”

H.R. 1937 is opposed by the American Medical Association, the Pharma-
ceutical Manufacturers Association and other large scientiﬁc groups. Equally o -
posed to the bill are the National Anti-Vivisection Society and other organizations
devoted to the abolition of animal experimentation. However, support for effective

regulation of animal experiments continues to grow among unbiased citizens who
learn the facts.

A Special Problem: The F .D.A. Beagles

Major progress was made in the attempt to obtain decent treatment for the
hundreds of beagles used in pharmacological tests by the Food and Drug Admin-
istration in Washington, D.C. These beagles, imprisoned in a sub-basement from
two to seven years, in all metal, mesh-bottom cages 30” x 36”, are never removed
from their cages for exercise. Their cruel conﬁnement serves no purpose, and it
should have been ended years ago. It could never have occurred at all had H.R.
1937 been law.

In response to public demand, initiated by Ann Free’s news story on the
beagles’ plight, the 86th Congress appropriated funds for architectural plans for
a laboratory-kennel building where the dogs can be housed in comfortable kennel-
runways, providing for the necessary exercise, fresh air and sunlight. The United
States House of Representatives passed the appropriation bill which contained the
funds for this building in June, and Senator Lister Hill, Chairman of the sub-
committee before which the matter was pending in the Senate, assured the In-
stitute: ”I am doing everything in my power to win approval this year of the funds
for construction of the facility with the comfortable housing for the laboratory
animals. I think I can assure you we will get the funds.”*

Expression of the will of Congress on dog-caging should bring in its. wake
:a widespread reform in the housing of experimental dogs throughout the nation,

,many thousands of whom are kept under conditions similar to those that the
F.D.A. beagles have suffered for so long.

>kThe bill was passed by the Senate on August 2, 196.1 and signed by the President,
September 21, 1961.

4

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

Articles and Publications

The Institute was. invited to prepare an article for the November issue
The American Biology Teacher. Entitled ”The Abuse of Animals in the Class-
room and How It Can Be Avoided”, it cited examples of painful and distressing
animal experiments in schools which the Institute opposes and stated: ”Prospec-
tive scientists must be made to realize that a normal, healthy condition in the
research animal is the sine qua non of an authentic biological experiment, and
that it is a part of the scientist’s job to see that his animals are well kept. . . .
The importance of a well developed technique of observation in biology can
hardly be overestimated. . . . Cruel experiments involving surgery or stress are
not the training students need. Respect for living things, sound judgment, re-
liability, and a technique of observation will go further towards making competent
biologists than will the kind of emotions aroused by crude surgery in supposed
imitation of a fantasy hero. . The article suggested teaching biological prin-
ciples using one-celled organisms and colonies of insects. Speciﬁc instructions on
the proper care and feeding of higher animals, kept in the classroom for observa-
tion only, were given. Biology teachers who wish to have free reprints of this
article are invited to write to the Institute.

The April 1961 issue of the Laboratory z‘lniinali~ Information Service, pub-
lication of the Indian Council of Medical Research, published an article by the

President of the Institute entitled ”The Humane Treatment of Experimental
Animals.”

Demand by teachers for the Institute’s manual, ”Humane Biology Projects”,
a 47-page, illustrated collection of experiments, demonstrations and projects for
classrooms and science fairs, necessitated a second printing of 10,000 copies. A
leaﬂet describing the manual and offering one free copy to each teacher was dis-
tributed with a general mailing of the National Science Teachers Association, and
the response was large and prompt.

Grateful acknowledgement is made to the following publications which called
the manual to the attention of their readers: New Hamprnire Science Newrletter,
Louiriana Scnoolr, Connecticut Science Teacher; Arrociation Newsletter, The At-
lantic Naturalist, Science Tipr of the Florida State Department of Education,
Plant Science Bulletin of the Botanical Society of America, Biology Letter of
Ward’s Natual Science Establishment, Minnerota [ournal of Science, Our Pet
World, and the Bulletin of the State of Illinois Office of the Superintendent of
Public Instruction. '

"First Aid and Care of Small Animals,” by Ernest P. Walker, an Institute
manual now in its fourth printing, is being widely used in primary and secondary
schools in this country and Canada to whose teachers it is provided, free on request.
The following publications very kindly drew attention to this manual and to
"Humane Biology Projects”: Educator: Progrejr Service, Free and Inexpenriue
Educational Materialr, National Par/é; Magazine, and Vision. The Girl Scout
Leader recommended ”First Aid and Care of Small Animals” for Scout groups.

5

 

 

 




 

"Basic Care of Experimental Animals”, the Institute manual for use in
scientiﬁc institutions which employ animals, was called to the attention of readers
of The Wildlife Review, Science Pmdzzcti bulletin and the special supplement
on laboratory animals published by the Federation of American Societies for Ex-
perimental Biology. ”Comfortable Quarters for Laboratory Animals”, the Insti-
tute’s loose-leaf manual which reproduces architectural plans and photographs,
was also listed.

The newly revised edition of the National Institutes of Health publication,
"Care of the Dog in Medical Research” included, in the form of a quotation of
a private communication from the President of the Institute, a detailed recommen-
dation on the use of roomy inside kennels connecting directly with individual out-
side runways for housing laboratory dogs.

A 7-page Historical Note on the British Act of 1876 was reprinted from the
ﬁrst edition of the ”UFAW Handbook on the Care and Management of Laboratory
Animals” and is available free on request from the Institute.

“An Introduction to the Anesthesia of Laboratory Animals,” by Phyllis Croft,
Ph.D., M.R.C.V.S. was published by the Universities Federation for Animal Wel-
fare and made available in this country by the Institute. Dr. Croft, a most humane
and intelligent person, is a UFAW Research Fellow whose past work with elec-
trical stunning has made it possible to prevent much needless suffering. This short
and practical book is provided to research laboratories for ﬁfty cents.

Meetings

At the following meetings, the President of the Institute spoke on legislation
for the humane treatment of experimental animals:

Animal Care Panel, St. Louis, Mo., October 25-28, 1960

Wisconsin Branch of the Animal Care Panel, Madison, Wisconsin,
December 14, 1960

Awards Luncheon of “Our Pet World” magazine, New York, N. Y.
September 29, 1960

New York State Humane Association, Binghamton, N. Y.,
October 21, 1960

Washington Animal Rescue League, Washington, D.C., April 28, 1961

Michigan Federation of Humane Societies, East Lansing, Mich,
October 1, 1960

Animal Welfare Institute Annual Meeting, New York, N. Y., May 26, 1961
Other meetings attended by representatives of the Institute were:

Universities Federation for Animal Welfare, Executive Committee,
London, England, June, 1961

6

.‘r i




Federation of American Societies for Experimental Biology, Annual
meeting, Atlantic City, N. J., April 13, 1961

American Association for the Advancement of Science, New York, N. Y.,
December 27-29, 1960. By special arrangement, Animal Welfare In-
stitute panel exhibit of information on legislation for protection of
laboratory animals was displayed in part of National Society for Med-
ical Research Booth in answer to National Society for Medical Research
opposition to the legislation.

Visits to Laboratories

The most effective laboratory visits made last year were a series of six to St.
Vincent’s Hospital in New York City, where a legal agreement made in connection
with purchase of land by the hospital requires it to admit representatives of the
Institute to inspect animal quarters. After a dog jumped oﬁ‘ the roof of the
hospital, newspapers in all parts of the country carried the story, and an Animal
Welfare Institute member urged that the animal, which was said to have survived
the fall, be purchased. Representatives of the Institute immediately went to the
hospital, found that the dog was dead, that none of the improvements previously
promised for the care of the animals had been made but rather that appalling
conditions of filth and vermin had developed, and that sick animals in the heat
of New York summer were deprived of water.

William A. Carr, columnist and reporter for the New York Port, asked per-
mission to visit the laboratory. In a hard-hitting and highly effective column
August 7, 1960, he stated: ”We asked the hospital for permission to look at the
laboratories there ﬁrst hand. After several days of hemming and hawing, the
hospital turned us down. The administrator even threatened to sue if we printed
what we had found out about animal facilities there.”

A reporter for the New York Herald Triézme who had printed a reassuring
account (including a statement that the dog squeezed through a hole in the fence
when he jumped off the roof, though the truth was that there was no fence at all)
tried to get permission to visit the laboratory. He, too, was refused admittance.
The Tribune, however, would not print any correction of the biased and inaccurate
article they had printed, and the Institute is indebted to Popzzlar Dog; for printing
in full with a helpful introduction the rejected letter of correction.

The Hospital removed the tick-and mite-infested dogs and rabbits and the
piles of excrement. One doctor noted with amazement the myriads of ticks. that
emerged from cracks during fumigation. The laboratory was completely repainted.
A sturdy fence was built around the roof. Resting boards were provided for all
mesh bottom dog cages. One room was set aside for incoming animals. However,
the Director of Laboratories continued to resist the provision of water for guinea
pigs. On the ﬁfth Animal Welfare Institute visit, renewed complaints over the
condition of these animals, many of whose hair was falling out and whose ears

7

 

 

 




 

 

were scabby and half-gone, led to a major reduction in the overcrowding, the
purchase of better quality food, and the provision of water for all guinea pigs.
On the sixth visit the animals were observed eagerly sipping from the freshly ﬁlled
water bottles. The dogs have demonstrated their strong preference for resting
boards on all Visits, too.

Much time and effort were expended to obtain these minimum requirements
for animal care. Without Mr. Carr’s fearless reporting, these efforts might well
have been fruitless as have so many of the efforts in the past to improve conditions
in individual laboratories. through simple requests to supply the basic needs of
animals. St. Vincent’s laboratory is now markedly above average in animal housing
and care. It demonstrates the effectiveness of the combination of thorough inspec-
tion, legal right of entry, and strong incentive (in this case provided by unfavor-
able publicity) to achieve decent standards. These component parts are all present
in H.R. 1937 for the humane treatment of experimental animals.

Another ‘bad case where cure by publicity was attempted concerned a large
number of excessively emaciated and suffering dogs at the Cedars of Lebanon
Hospital in Los Angeles. Thanks are due to Pamela Mason for calling attention
to this on her radio program. Regrettably, it has not been possible to follow
through on inspections here to ascertain whether reforms have been initiated in the
planning of experiments or care of the animals as suggested at the time of the visit.

Protection of Wildlife

The long-awaited Senate vote on the International Convention for the Preven-
tion of Pollution of the Sea by Oil was taken on May 16th; it passed resoundingly
with a vote of 92 to 0. Domestic enabling legislation was introduced promptly
and passed. Prevention of oil pollution is essential in order to prevent long-drawn-

Out death by starvation of large numbers of sea birds whose feathers become oil-
soaked so they cannot fly.

Hearings on H.R. 777, introduced by Rep. John P. Saylor of Pennsylvania
for the protection of marine mammals (polar bear, walrus and sea otter) on the
high seas, were held with other conservation measures May 9th to 11th before
a subcommittee of the House Committee on Merchant Marine and Fisheries.*
Representative Saylor spoke warmly in support of his bill terming present gunning
of these animals from planes ”ruthless slaughter.” The animals are often left to
die slowly from their wounds. It is important both for the prevention of needless

suffering and for the preservation of disappearing species that the legislation be
enacted now.

*The bill was slightly amended, reported by the Committee as H.R. 7490 and passed by
the House of Representatlves on August let. Senate action is awaited.

8

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

Rep. Leonard G. Wolf, sponsor in the 87th Congress of legislation which
w0uld have required consultation by the Department of Agriculture with the Fish
.and Wildlife Service before mass use of pesticides, was defeated at the polls.
Rep. John Dingell (D.Mich.) is now leading this effort which is greatly needed
to prevent the continued sickness and death of large numbers of wild birds and
mammals from use of chlorinated hydrocarbons and other highly toxic insecticides.

Miss Rachel Carson, an expert on this subject and new member of the In-
stitute’s Advisory Committee, has called attention to pollution of Tule Lake and
Lower Klamath National Wildlife Refuges with insecticides which apparently
reached the lakes through irrigation ditches and caused the death of hundreds of
fish-eating birds.

In Britain, Christopher Soames, Minister of Agriculture, announced in the
House of Commons that the use of aldrin, dieldrin and heptachlor would be
restricted.

Humane Slaughter

State humane slaughter laws were passed this year in Kansas, Rhode Island,
Connecticut, Florida, Oregon and Maine. California, Massachusetts, Minnesota,
New Hampshire, Washington and Wisconsin had passed this legislation in the
two previous years. It is designed to protect animals in small packing plants not
covered by the Federal Humane Slaughter Act which went into eﬂect in 1960.
The United States Department of Agriculture reports that 91% of all food animals
slaughtered in federally inspected plants are now humanely killed. An excellent
article by Paul W. Kearney (winner of the Schweitzer Medal for 1957) and
Richard Dempewolff appeared in the magazine Together, published by the Meth-
odist Publishing House, and was condensed and republished by the Reader; Digeri
in January. Reprints are available free on request from the Institute.

Two devices for humane handling of cattle prior to kosher slaughter were
invented and put into operation in Canada last year. Full details are given in the
September-October and. January-February Reports. An article in T/ae National
Proeirz'mzer stated: ”The unit has been approved as humane. by the orthodox di-
vision of the Canadian Jewish Congress, humane societies and the Veterinary
Director General of the Canada Department of Agriculture. Operated by one
man who moves the animal into position and controls the neck extending frame,
the unit reportedly restrains up to 75 head per hour for the schochet.” These pens
used in conformance with the requirements of the Canadian Humane Slaughter
Act have put an end to the shackling and hoisting of conscious cattle in Canada.
A modified version of the pen, meeting all requirements of the Meat Inspection
Division of the United States Department of Agriculture, is expected to be in
Operation soon. This should remove all rational objection to enactment of humane
slaughter laws forbidding the shackling and hoisting of conscious animals.

9

 




 

 

Information Reports

The Information Reports, issued ﬁve times a year to about 12,000 educational,
scientiﬁc and humane grOup-s and individuals, dealt with the subjects treated above.
Some additional highlights are summarized below.

Henry Beetle HOugh, well-known author and editor of the Vineyard Gazette
Edgarton, Massachusetts, wrote a letter to the Reader; Digest in defense of the
pending legislation for the humane treatment of experimental animals. It was
published in the January-February Report. Mr. Hough said the March Digert
article, “Vivisection, an Explosive Issue Again”, was ”open to serious challenge
on the ground of honesty and accuracy,” and noted that the author is a special
pleader. “Mr. Ratcliff refers to the ‘well-meaning but misguided efforts of the
Animal Welfare Institute.’ The phrases are obviously chosen for the purpose of
discrediting the Animal Welfare Institute and those who support it. Yet this is
the organization primarily responsible for enactment of the humane slaughter bill
which has, at long last, introduced a great measure of humanity into the slaughter-
ing industry. It may be noted that the United States was far behind the countries
of Europe in the civilized usages, and that special pleaders for the American meat
industry used the same specious arguments against the Animal Welfare Institute
that are now applied by Mr. Ratcliff. Yet the humane slaughter legislation proved
entirely practical and certainly was not misguided. . . . There is abundant evidence
that the medical profession is too careless or indifferent or pre-occupied to safe--
guard the care of animals undergoing or about to undergo experimentation. Here
in Massachusetts, during debate on the so-called animal seizure bill, the profession
gave unqualified assurances that seized animals would be humanely cared for.
Within a matter of weeks after passage of the bill, animals kept for the use of
one of the best known clinics in America were found being kept under atrocious
conditions in a state of semi-starvation and cruelty.”

Correction of some of the false statements in the Digert article were published
following the Hough letter.

A news dispatch to the New York Timer from John Hillaby in London
headed ”Curb in Research Denied by Britons, Biologists Find No Handicap in
Government Rules on Use of Living Animals” was published in the January-
February Information Report.

An excellent statement by the Florida State Department of Education on
animals in classrooms was reprinted in the September-October Report with a sug-
gestion that other States shOuld follow suit. ”A science teacher who proposes to
'use live animals in teaching procedures must be aware, ﬁrst of all, that issues of
morality may be and often are involved,” the Education Department stated. “It is
important that the health and well-being of animals not be interfered with when
they are being used in the classroom.” Referring to treatment of animals which
may ”in the opinion of many psychologists and psychiatrists, be harmfully trau—
matic to the student,” the statement concluded, ”A student may ‘learn’ many things
from classroom use of animals, and physiology may be the least of them.”

10

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

The urgent need for action to prevent painful experiments in high schools
was pointed out in the March-April Report which cited some recent examples: A
15-year-old boy who ”inserted clear plastic windows in the abdomens of three
white rats. Through the windows he can watch development of babies in the two
rats who are expectant mothers”. A 15-year-old girl who “seeks cancer cure” and
is ”currently doing research on DNA, deoxyribonucleic acid, the hottest thing in
modern biology.” A 15-year-old boy injecting cancer cells under the skins of
“about 30” mice, waiting for the tumors to grow “sometimes half as big as the
mouse”, then operating to remove them. A 12-year-old boy transplanting corneas
in the eyes of monkeys. The report urged support of two simple rules for high
school biology:

1. Animals being observed by students must always be maintained in the
maximum possible condition of health, comfort, and well-being.

2. No vertebrate animal used for primary or secondary school teaching may
be subjected to any experiment or procedure which interferes with its
normal health or causes it pain or distress.

Angelo Patri, noted educator and writer, stated for publication in this Re-
port: ”The secondary pupil is emotionally immature, and his character still un-
stable, and he should not be exposed to such experiences.”

Mrs. Eleanor Roosevelt wrote to the President of the National P.T.A. Con-
gress, stating: ”In view of the forthcoming convention of the P.T.A., I would
like to join all those who sympathize with the principles of humane education and
urge you, as President of the National P.T.A. Congress to include a discussion on
this vital matter and reinstate humane education on the program of the PTA.
It seems to me to be of great importance to teach our children respect for life.
Towards this end, experiments on living animals in classrooms should be stopped.
To encourage cruelty—in the name of science—can only destroy the ﬁner emotions
of affection and sympathy and breed an unfeeling callousness in the young towards
suffering in all living creatures.” This letter was published in the March-April
Report.

 

 

Contributions to the Animal Welfare Institute are deductible in computing
income tax returns, and donations, large or small, are most gratefully accepted
for the general fund or for special purposes. The extension of the Institute’s

much needed work depends upon such support-

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

Advisory Committee
Dr. Lee R. Dice Rachel L. Carson David Ricardo Dr. Joseph Wood Krutch

Christine Stevens, President ° Alfred R. Glancy, Jr., Vice-President
Estella Draper, Executive Secretary ° Roger L. Stevens, Treas.
Mary M. Richards, Asst. Treas.

 




 




Eleventh Annual Report

ponsors of legislation tor humane treatment 0t experimental
animals, Hon. Martha Grittitlts HR. |937l, Hon. Joseph Clark
and Hon. Maurine Neuberger (S. 3088.

Animal Welfare Institute
22 East 17th Street
New York 3, N. Y,

 




 

 

i4 ‘ .1!
191tiii+

 




 

 

 

ELEVENTH ANNUAL REPORT OF THE
ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

22 East 17th Street, New York 3, New York
(July 1, 1961 to June 30, 1962)

On March 28, 1962, Senator Joseph S. Clark of Pennsylvania introduced in
the US. Senate S. 3088 to provide for the humane treatment of animals used in
experiments and tests by recipients of grants from the United States and by
agencies and instrumentalities of the United States Government. Shortly there-
after, Senator Maurine Neuberger of Oregon joined him as a co-sponsor of the
measure, which is identical with H.R. 1937 introduced in the US. House of
Representatives by the Hon. Martha Grifﬁths of Michigan January 6, 1961. Hear-
ings had not been scheduled by the end of the year covered in this report and
opponents are seeking weak and ineffective substitutes.*

Welcome support came from the New England Federation of Humane Societies
which voted at its annual meeting to back the legislation.

A strong editorial in The W/nrhington Port of May 9, 1962 urged favorable
action on the legislation, and effective articles on the subject appeared in The Long
IJ/cznd Star-Journal (by Lee Townsend) July 25, 1961; Concern, a magazine of
General Board of Christian Social Concerns of the Methodist Church, November
15, 1961; Pet Digert, Fall, 1961; The Troy (N.Y.) Times Record, February 6,
1962; The Vineyard Gazette, February 2, 1962; The Chrirticzn Science Monitor,
March 9, 1962; The Louisville (.Ky.) Record, March 16, 1962; Newrddy, (by
Virginia Sheward), April 25, 1962; The Roch Irinnd (Ill.) Argm, May 19, 1962.

Harper"; magazine, July, 1962, published an article by Faubion Bowers which
told of ‘work done by the lnstitute’s President in the ﬁght for legal protection of
animals in slaughterhouses and in laboratories.

An article and a series of letters in The New Scientirt made clear the support
of the British scientiﬁc community for the British Act of 1876 which regulates
animal experiments. It is. on the principles of this Act that H.R. 1937 and S. 3088
are based.

The original article reported the results of a survey conducted by the Univer-
sities Federation for Animal Welfare and published under the title ”Opinions of
British Scientists on Home Ofﬁce Control of Experiments on Animals” by C. W.
Hume. Professor Edward Hindle, F.R.S., President of UFAW, sent three ques~
tions on the Act to biological Fellows of the Royal Society. The response was
overwhelmingly in favor of the legislation, ﬁrst-rate scientists writing to say that

 

* Hearings were held by the House Committee on Interstate and Foreign Commerce
Subcommittee on Health and Safety, Hon. Kenneth Roberts, Chairman, on September
28 and 29, 1962. Copies of the printed record of these hearings may be obtained by
writing to the Clerk of the Committee at the House Ofﬁce Building, \Vashington, DC.

1

 

 

 




 

 

they would Oppose any move to abolish the Act ”with everything I have got” or,
in another case, ”I would ﬁght to preserve” it. Among the reasons given are the
following: “I believe that ——- far from hindering scientiﬁc investigations -— the
system of licensing and inspection adopted in Britain provides conditions for re-
search that are beyond reproach.” (from a letter of Dr. C. A. Hoare, F.R.S., of
the Wellcome Laboratories of Tropical Medicine). Sir John Hammond, F.R.S.,
of the Cambridge School of Agriculture, wrote ”It forces us to train our young
research workers efﬁciently.” Prof. David Keilin, F.R.S. of the Molteno Institute,
Cambridge, wrote, ”it compels the worker to plan and to carry out his experiments
with more care. This greatly improves the quality of the research and is of beneﬁt
to the research worker himself.” Prof. F. A. E. Crew, F.R.S., wrote, ”I do not think
that just anybody should be allowed to do just anything with a living creature.”

New Supplement for "Comfortable Quarters for
Laboratory Animals”

The fourth supplement for the AWI manual ”Comfortable Quarters for La-
boratory Animals,” was prepared this year. The new supplement contains 30 plans
and photographs selected from material obtained through an extensive survey.
Every scientist who had ordered the manual in the past seven years was sent a
letter of inquiry as to whether useful new housing or equipment for animal
colonies had been developed in his institution. Institutions receiving federal grants
for construction of animal quarters were also circularized. An amusing note was
the ”Warning” sent out by the National Society for Medical Research suggesting
that scientists had better watch out when they received this dangerous survey letter.
No doubt some timorous biologists failed to respond as a result, but the supplement
is an excellent one, nevertheless, containing the following items: guinea pig quar-
ters and cat breeding quarters at Allington Farm, Salisbury, England; plans of the
animal house at Little Bromwich General Hospital, England; kennel-runways at
Ralston-Purina, St. Louis; kennel-runways at Los Alamos Scientiﬁc Laboratory;
outdoor kennel for dogs at the University of California at Davis; indoor dog runs
at the Ontario Veterinary College; kennel-runways at the Oteen, N.C. Veterans
Administration Hospital; kennel-runways at the University of Florida at Gaines.
ville; pens for dogs and monkeys at the University of Mississippi Medical Center;
kennel-runways for dogs and cats at Morris Research Laboratories, Topeka, Kansas;
"chimpanzee quarters at Holloman Air Force Base; large colony outdoor quarters
at Oregon Primate Research Center; pens for poultry at the University of Maine;
resting boards and nest boxes at Harvard Medical School and Ralston Purina
skennels; a radiant heating panel for use with large animals needing special
warmth; a tv'vo-compartment whelping cage at the University of California at
Los Angeles; a mobile colony cat cage with four resting boards, various automatic
,watering devices; self-operating doors for dogs and cats; portable panel fencing
for outdoor or indoor exercise areas; an exercise wheel for hamsters; and an
identiﬁcation band for various species of animals.

2

 

 

 




 

 

 

Either the new supplement or the full 109-page manual will be sent free on
request to institutions planning new animal quarters or remodelling old ones.

Also available free .to laboratories is the AWI manual, ”Basic Care of Experi-
mental Animals” which was reprinted again this year, bringing the total dis-
tributed free on request to scientists to over 17,000 copies.

Visits to Laboratories

During the course of the year, laboratories in ten states, the District of Co-
lumbia, Canada and England were visited by AWI members and representatives.
Many bad conditions were observed, and a few improvements were obtained.

Major improvement has been made in Cedars of Lebanon Hospital in Los
Angeles, noted in last year’s annual report. Twenty-foot-long outside runways are
under construction for the dogs who previously never were removed from the
windowless room in which they are caged. The dogs themselves are much less
pitiful in appearance, the excessive emaciation and painful physical symptoms
previously observed no longer being in evidence. The reasons for this are three-
fold: the dogs’ diet has been made more nutritious and they are now being fed
twice daily. Most important, the experimental designs have been modiﬁed so they
are not so hard on the animals. Credit for these vital humane changes should go
to Pamela Mason who brought the need for them to the attention of the public
through her radio program. The City, County and State Health Departments and
Department of Animal Regulation and the administration of the hospital co-
operated in bringing about the changes once tbe demand was strongly erz‘ablz'r/Jed.

The new kennels for the test beagles of the Food and Drug Administration
in Washington, DC. have not yet been constructed, so the beagles are still per-
petually caged in the sub-basement where some of these hundreds of little dogs
have already spent seven long years. However, the AWI has been assured that
the long-delayed construction will begin in 1962. Helpful regulations on the care
of the animals and the policy with respect to their use were issued by the Food and
Drug Administration. Particularly important is the rule on euthanasia: "No dog
will be allowed to reach a state wherein he would be too weak to perform his nor-
mal functions, such as standing and eating, or permitted to remain in obvious pain."

Wildlife

One of the most important documents ever published in the struggle to pro-
tect wildlife has been in preparation for the past four years by Rachel Carson, a
member of the AWI Advisory Committee. "Silent Spring" appeared in abbreviated
form in Tlae New Yorker magazine in three June issues. Publication date for
the full book (Houghton, Miﬂiin) is September. It is a Book-of—the-Month Club
selection and is expected to be the subject of a CBS television documentary.

3

 

 




 

 

The signiﬁcance of this book to the chemical industry may be gauged by the
fact that Miss Carson’s photograph appeared on the front page of the Financial
Section of the New York Timer with a long article quoting spokesmen for the
major manufacturers of pesticides. Washington oﬂices are receiving a strong pub-
lic reaction demanding control of these dangerous substances.

* * >3 *

On September 6, 1961 the US. Senate passed the Wilderness bill by a vote
of 78 to 8. Opponents of the bill (mining, lumber and grazing interests) were
using a combination of crippling amendments and delay to kill the bill in the
House of Representatives at the time this report was written.

* * >i< *

Another sad disappointment for friends of wildlife was the failure even to
hold hearings in the Senate on the Marine Mammals Bill which had been passed
by the House of Representatives August 21, 1961. The bill which would have
prevented gunning of polar bears from planes and protected these magniﬁcent
animals and the playful sea otters and walrus outside Alaskan waters failed to get
a hearing because of the objections of Alaskan officials. The Alaska Sportsmen’s
Council supported the bill, stating that the walrus population is declining and
calling attention to the fact that if present hunting is continued there will be no
more walrus in 25 years. Mr. A. W. Boddy, speaking for the Council, pointed
out that a State cannot deal with international problems such as the preservation
of these amphibious animals present and that Federal legislation is essential to
provide reasonable protection for them.

Humane Education

”The World of Animals” by Joseph Wood Krutch, a member of the AWI
Advisory Committee, was published November, 1961 by Simon and Schuster. A
fascinating anthology, it presents the various points of View toward animals which
have been expressed by writers from the Fifth Century BC. to the‘present day.
Dr. Krutch comments on each, drawing the reader’s attention both to the develop-
ment of humaneness and to the continuation of callousness and cruelty in modern
attitudes. The book is the outstanding contribution to adult humane education
which has been made in recent years in our country, treating the subject with the
seriousness it deserves while providing a diverting variety of lively reading.

An important statement on biology teaching in high schools was issued this
year by Dr. W. W. Armistead, Dean of the Veterinary College of Michigan State
University. Emphasizing the fact that animals should never be used unless com-
fortable quarters and care are provided, Dean Armistead points out that ”living
animals sometimes are mistreated in laboratory exercises. Such practices must be
condemned by all legitimate scientists Who respect life and understand research.

4

 




 

There is no justiﬁcation for conducting in the secondary school an experiment
which would cause pain to an animal.” Copies of Dean Armistead’s full statement
are available free on request from the Institute and are being distributed to high
school teachers.

The great demand for the teachers’ manuals published by the AWI necessitated
reprinting of both ”Humane Biology Projects” and ”First Aid and Care of Small
Animals”. Five thousand copies of the first and ten thousand copies of the second
were printed this year, and both will have to be reprinted again in the coming
year in order to keep up with the requests by educators. Contributions to help
pay for this vital service are urgently needed and deeply appreciated.

A survey was carried out during the year on the use of these manuals, and the
results were very encouraging. The response was almost unanimously favorable;
in fact, there was so little criticism of the manuals that the only disappointment
was that suggestions for improvement were so few in number. The most common
request, where requests were made, was to increase the section on animal behavior
in ”Humane Biology Projects.” Accordingly, plans are being made for publication
of a third manual particularly directed to this subject. Major contributor will be
Sally Carrighar whose ”Wild Voice of the North” revealed a genius for observa-
tion of a Husky dog and other animals in Alaska, fulﬁlling the promise shown in
her earlier ”Ice Bound Summer”, ”One Day on Beetle Rock”, ”One Day at Teton
Marsh” and others.

An article on humane education by the President of the Institute was published
in the May issue of Childhood Eda/cation, journal of the Association for Child-
hood Education International. Entitled ”Befriending Animals” it gave suggestions
for teachers to use in class and reported brieﬂy on humane education throughOut
the world.

Humane Slaughter

State humane slaughter bills were passed this year in Michigan and Maryland.
Difficulties are still experienced in efforts to legislate against the shackling and
hoisting of conscious animals prior to kosher slaughter. Although the pre-slaughter
handling is not a religious matter, opposition to a change to more humane pre-
slaugihter handling methods has prevented the enactment of legislation in New
York and New Jersey where the majority of animals (except pigs) are killfid
kosher and where, therefore, it is essential that humane slaughter bills deal with
the handling methods. The bills in both Michigan and Maryland. exempted
handling prior to kosher slaughter, but they are not major kosher slaughter states.

Cross Brothers Meat Packers of Philadelphia has developed a holding pen for
steers which permits restraint of these animals for kosher slaughter without shack-
ling and hoisting them. An excellent report on the pen was published in a long
article in The National Provisioner, June 16, 1962, and a number 0f full-page

' 5

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

advertisements have been run in this journal by the manufacturers, Food Handling
Machinery Corp, 3630 Haverford Avenue, Philadelphia 4, Pa. It is hoped that
humane kosher slaughterers will promptly order and install this pen and put a
stop to the cruel shackling and hoisting of conscious animals.

Schweitzer Medal

This year the Albert Schweitzer Award of the AWI was made to William H. A.
Carr, reporter and columnist of the New York Part, in recognition of his active
services for the protection of animals. Mr. Carr’s fearless and accurate reporting
is outstanding in the ﬁelds of protection for laboratory animals and food animals.
The publishers of the Port are to be congratulated for the high quality of reporting
on these important subjects which Mr. Carr has provided and they have printed.

Major C. W. Hume, the Schweitzer Medallist for 1956, this year was awarded
the Order of the British Empire for services to animal welfare. Major Hume is
Secretary-General of the Universities Federation for Animal Welfare with head-
quarters in London, England.

Mrs. Isobel Slater, who with Chief Fundikira was Schweitzer Medallist for
1960, has founded the Humane Education Institute of Africa and is distributing
humane educational literature in English, French and Swahili from headquarters
in Dar es Salaam, Tanganyika. Chief Fundikira is now Minister of justice of
Tanganyika and a Patron of H.E.I.A. The Animal Welfare Institute is seeking
to encourage support for H.E.I.A. A magniﬁcent film, “\Wildlife in Tanganyika”
was shown at the last AWI annual meeting.

Meetings
Representatives of the AWI attended the following meetings:

General Board of Christian Social Concerns of the Methodist Church, Chicago,
September 8, 1961.

New York State Humane Association annual meeting, Albany, Sept. 22, 1961.
Animal Care Panel annual meeting, Boston, Mass, October 26-29, 1961.
Animal Welfare Institute annual meeting, New York, December 17, 1961.

Humane Education Conference, New Jersey Branch of the Humane Society of
the United States, Newark Teachers’ College, April 5, 1962.

Baltimore County Humane Society annual meeting, Pikesville, Maryland,
May 15, 1962.

The AWI held a theater benefit in cooperation with Friends of Animals on
December 15, 1961.

New Directors

Two additional directors were elected to the board of the AWI this year, Mrs.
Ludwig Bemelmans, President of the Society for Animal Protective Legislation
and a member of the board of directors of Friends of Animals, and Mrs. Frank

6

 

 

 




 

,. _ﬁnu 2 an; ""5

 

Wilson who has written articles on animal protection and been active in work for
humane slaughter legislation.

Information Reports

The AWI Information Reports, issued ﬁve times a year to about 12,000 ad-
dresses, seek tO keep scientists and humanitarians. informed on important develop-
ments in humane work. In addition to the subjects reported on above, some of
the individual articles deserve notice.

A Popularized Account of Intense Pain Inﬂiction (V01. 10, NO. 4)
called attention to some of the things Dr. John Lilly did to dolphins and reported
in a book intended for mass consumption. Science called it "one of the frankest
and most egotistical accounts of a research project ever placed before a sensation-
loving public.” Dr. Lilly tells how to inﬂict ”intense punishment” and ”intense
pain” by placing electrodes in the dolphins’ brains and turning on current. How
to put a monkey into a state of panic through the terrible pain which he forgets
how to shut off is also described.

An International Symposium on the Assessment of Pain in Man
and Animals was held at the Middlesex Hospital Medical School, London,
July 26-28, 1961. The President, Sir Russell Brain, F.R.S., editor of Brain and
President of the Royal College of Physicians, emphasized the humanitarian aspect
in his opening address. The conference was organized by the Universities Federa-
tion for Animal Welfare. It was noted in INFORMATION REPORT Vol. 10, No. S.

Immobilization of Unanesthetized Animals, Death by Starvation or
Deﬁciency, Burning, Stress, and Automation in Experiments which
Cause Pain and Fear were the headings of a long article (Vol. 11, No. 2)
reporting on some current animal experiments and quoting from the journals.
This report, together with notes from laboratory visits (Vol. 11, NO. 1) describing
some of the neglect and callousness observed by AWI representatives -- sickness,
ﬁlth, mistreatment of animals, failure even to provide cages big enough for some

dogs to stand up or lie down in normally —-—— pointed to the urgent need for enact-

ment of the pending bills, 8. 3088 and HR. 1937, to bring an end to laboratory
abuses. .

Overcrowding and failure to provide water for animals were discussed
in an article in INFORMATION REPORT Vol. 10, No. 5 and numerous instances
given of the suffering so casually inﬂicted in these ways.

The need to stop the ﬂow of diseased animals into laboratories
was discussed in INFORMATION REPORT Vol. 11, No. 1 and instances given of
the suffering and waste caused by the constant train of animals with infectious
diseases that dealers and breeders continue to sell to scientiﬁc institutions. As
with the inﬂiction of needless suffering in laboratories, lairrez-fczz're is the keynote
of those who have the power to change the present system if they would.

The vast growth of federal funds for animal experiments was brieﬂy
noted in INFORMATION REPORT Vol. 11, No. 1.

7

 

 




 

 

Tidal Wave of Overproduction was the title of a report in INFORMATION
REPORT Vol. 11, No. 3 in which leading medical men and biologists told of dupli-
cation and waste in experimentation. The article was largely a quotation from a
statement by Senator Hubert H. Humphrey which appeared in the Congrerrional
Record March 8, 1962.

Humane Statements by Deans give a little hOpe for improvement which
is so desperately needed. Dean J. F. McCreary of the Faculty of Medicine, Uni-
versity of British Columbia gave encouragement to the work of the Japan Animal
Welfare Society in a statement published in The .Brz'tirh Columbia Medical Journal,
January, 1961. Dean Charles G. Wilber of Kent State University issued a memo-
randum making the AWI manual, ”Basic Care of Experimental Animals” required
reading for all graduate students working with vertebrate animals. The memo-
randum was published in INFORMATION REPORT Vol. 11, N0. 1. In this same
REPORT, the statement earlier referred to by Dean W. W. Armistead of the
College of Veterinary Medicine, Michigan State University, was also published.
It is regrettable that his. wise statement against painful experiments in secondary
schools has not been followed by all Science Fair promoters.

Cruel experiments by high school students were discussed in INFOR-
MATION REPORT Vol. 11, No. 3, attention being directed to the use of federal
funds for promoting such experiments through purchase of 25,000 copies of
”Science Projects Handbook” for distribution to teachers and Science Fair ”co-
Operators.” The killing of animals with induced cancer and production of mon-
strosities by shocking pregnant animals are two featured projects by high school
girls.

Needless and Costly Suffering in Livestock Transport (Vol. 10,
No. 5) reports on the thoroughly documented studies by Joseph F. Rickenbacker
of the US. Department of Agriculture which show the need to stop deliberate
cruelty and enforce humane standards in the transportation of livestock.

 

 

Contributions to the Animal Welfare Institute are deductible in computing
income tax returns, and donations, large or small, are most gratefully accepted
for the general fund or for special purposes. The extension of the Institute’s

much needed work depends upon such support.

 

 

 

 

 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
Advisory Committee
Dr. Lee R. Dice Rachel L. Carson Dr. Joseph Wood Krutch David Ricardo
Christine Stevens, President ° Alfred R. Glancy, Jr., Vice-President
Estella Draper, Executive Secretary ° Roger L. Stevens, Treas.

Mary M. Richards, Asst. Treas.

8

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 




 




Arm Cottrell Free. Schweitzer Medallist for I963.
with one of the test beagles ol Jrhe Food and Drug
Administration

Animal Welfare Institute
22 East 17th Street
ew York 3, N. Y.

 




 

 

 

 




 

 

 

TWELFTH ANNUAL REPORT OF THE
ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

22 East 17th Street, New York, New York 10003
(July 1, 1962 to June 30, 1963)

The year 1962 marked the first time that hearings on federal legislation to
require humane treatment of experimental animals have been held in our country.
Congressman Kenneth Roberts, Chairman of the Subcommittee on Health and
Safety of the Interstate and Foreign Commerce Committee of the United States
House of Representatives, conducted hearings on September 28th and 29th.

First to testify for HR. 1937 was Senator Maurine Neuberger, co-sponsor
of the companion bill. in the Senate. Dr. Paul Kiernan of the Washington Clinic
gave his views and those of two other humane surgeons. strongly supporting the
Senator‘s stand. Witnesses presenting excellent background material on the
British Act, on whose principles HR. 1937 is based, Were Dr. Leon Bernstein
of the Veterans Adminisvtration Hospital in San Francisco, Professor A. N. Wor-
den, Director of the Huntingdon Research Center in Huntingdon, England, and
Major C. W. Hume, Secretary-General of the Universities Federation for Animal
Welfare, London, who brought letters from leading British scientists including:
Sir Arthur Porritt, President of the Royal College of Surgeons; Sir Russell Brock,
internationally known heart surgeon; Professor P. B. Medawar, Nobel Prize
Winner and Director of the National Institute for Medical Research; Professor
C. A. Keele, professor of pharmacology and therapeutics and an authority on pain;
and Sir Graham Wilson, Director of the Public Health Laboratory Service. All
wrore in favor of the legislation for humane treatment of experimental animals
which has been in effect in Britain for 87 years.

Statements in favor of HR. 1937 were sent to the Subcommittee by Senator
Joseph S. Clark, Congresswoman Martha Griffiths, Miss Rachel Carson, Dr. Jo-
seph Wood Krutch, Rev. Eugene D. Dolloff, Dr. Frank E. Adair, Dr. Charles
Houston, Dr. Marjorie Anchel, Dr. Charles Breed, Dr. Eleanor Crissey, Dr. Ben-
nett Derby, Dr. Dorothy Hammond, Dr. Ralph Gwatkin and many others. Nu-
merous church groups and humane societies submitted resolutions in support of
HR. 1937. Strong opposition to both pending bills Was expressed by the Na-
tional Anti-Vivisection Society, the American Medical Association, the National
Society for Medical Research and individuals and groups allied with these organ-
izations.

 




 

 

Shortly after the hearings were held, Congress adjourned, but all over the
country reactions were being voiced in editorials. The New York Times said,
"Bills introduced in the Senate and House during the past session were patterned
on legislation enacted in England 86 years ago. The British example which has
not hampered fruitful medical research, should be followed here.” Excellent
editorials were published, too, in. the \Washington ('1’).C.) Post, The New York
Daily News, The Oregonian, The Vineyard Gazette, The Trenton (NJ) Times,
The Sacramento (Calif) Bee, The Christian Century, The Christian Science
Monitor, The Springfield ( Mass.) Daily News, and many others. Articles by
Betty Beale in the \Vashington Star, by Virginia Sheward in Newsday, and by
Ann Cortrell Free in a number of papers served by the North American News
paper Alliance were outstanding.

Soon after Congress reconvened in. January, 1965, the Clark-Neuberger bi”,
S. 533, modified to meet reasonable objections put forth at the hearings, was
introduced in the U. S. Senate by Senator Joseph S. Clark and Senator Maurine
Neuberger. On February 7th, Senator Stephen M. Young became a co-sponSOI.
The bill was referred to the Senate Committee on Labor and Public \Welfare.
On March 7th, Congressman Thomas L. Ashley introduced in the U. 8. House
of Representatives a bill identical with the Clark-Neuberger-Griffiths bill of 1962-
Later he altered it to make it a companion bill to S. 533; its number is H-R- 5430'
Congressman Ashley was moved to sponsor his bill after he had read front-page
reports about conditions at Zoologicals Worldwide, a supplier of animals to
laboratories including the National Institutes of Health, the nation’s largest
group of laboratories from which hundreds of millions of dollars’ worth of grants
were issued last year for biological experiments.

In June, Senator E. L. Bartlett made a norable speech to the Senate stating:
We must: recognize that scientists need experimental animals. Scientists in turn

must recognize that unnecessarily cruel and inhumane treatment of these animals
Will n0t be tolerated.”

. Cleveland Amory, the well-known author, columnist and lecturer made a
series of powerful pleas for humane treatment of experimental animals during
the summer. His articles in the Saturday Review of Literature and the Saturday
Evening Post'and his appearances on the Today Show, the Barry Gray Show and

other teleViSion and radioprograms attracted nationwide attention to the. plight
of experimental animals.

- -, ,._ Dr. Albert t'Sc‘theitzer' ' wrote - to ‘ Senator

. . . Maurine Neuberger stating: ”AS
you feel it right for me to give my support t I

o the law for compassion toward

'5

2

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

laboratory animals, I do so gladly. The ethic of Reverence for Life obliges us to
be watchful always to treat animals with compassion, and all the more so when
it concerns those creatures that serve medical research. If you pass. such a law
in the United States, it will have important meaning for the world. The law will
then gain recognition in other nations, too.

” 'In the beginning was the deed’ is an old saying. I am happy that you and
the Animal Welfare Institute are taking the initiative with S. 535.

”Faithfully yours, Albert Schweitzer.”

Other bills on the subject introduced during that part of the Eighthy-eighth
Congress covered by this report are as follows: 8. 1041, introduced March 7th
by Senator Jennings Randolph, HR. 4840 introduced by Congressman John
Fogarty and H.R. 4843 introduced by Congressman Kenneth Roberts, both on
March 13th. These three bills lack the basic principles needed for effective legis-
lation. HR. 4856 introduced March 13th by Congressman William J. Randall,
a slightly modified version of last year’s HR. 3556, is the most exacting. It con-
tains the necessary basic principles, but makes additional demands that militate
strongly againSt its enactment.

At its annual meeting in November, 1962, the New York State Humane
Association unanimously passed a resolution urging the United States to enacr
legislation embodying the following basic principles: 1) Licensing of individual
scientists, 2) Unannounced inspection of laboratories by well-qualiﬁed inspectors,
3) Pain Rule which would limit the amount of suffering inﬂicted on animals,
4) Minimum standards of care and housing, 5) Keeping of records adequate to
allow inspectors to carry out the law, 6) Student work must be painless, 7) Scope
of the Act would apply to all vertebrate animals, and 8) Enforcement through the
licensing provisions.

Dr. Gerry B. Schnelle, Chief of Staff of the Angeli Memorial Animal Hospital,
Spoke out in support of legislation to protecr experimental animals in a letter ﬁrst
published in the Joariial 0f the American Veterinary Medical Association. and sub-
sequently reprinted in Oar Dame Arzimair, Tbe Congrerrioaal Record, Papalar
Dogr, and the AWI Irrformaiiorz Report. Dr Schnelle cited a case with which he
had personal experience in which dogs were "subjected to heart surgery, and when
recovered from anesthesia just put out of doors in a Massachusetts winter, with
a few boards. tacked on trees as shelter and with garbage or a few dead chickens
their only food unless they are each other (they did!). These dogs. were seized by
Massachusetts State Police and brought to this hospital (Angell Memorial Animal

3

 




 

 

 

 

Hospital) for care. The pleurisy and endocarditis present in two of them exceeded
anything I have ever seen in spontaneous disease.” In reprinting Dr. Schnelle’s
letter, the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals expressed
its support for S. 533.

Rachel. Carson Awarded Schweitzer Medal

At the annual meeting of the AWI, January 7th, Dr. Robert Cushman Murphy
presented the Schweitzer Medal to Miss Rachel Carson for her great contribution,
as author of "Silent Spring”, to the protecrion of animals from needless suffering
and death resulting from excessive use of insecticides. Under vehement attack by
the chemical industry, Miss Carson’s facts remained uncontested, and her calm,
digniﬁed and reasonable replies to her critics on the nationwide television broad-
cast "CBS Reports” were impressive.

On May 15th, President Kennedy’s Science Advisory Committee made a
report that, to quote the New York Times, "Stirred agencies to action even before
its ofﬁcial release.” In this report “the scientists (of the Committee) called for
changes in laws and regulatory practices to guard againsr the hazards involved in
widespread use of the chemicals.” The Committee called for more research into
pOtential health hazards. and, in the interim, for more judicious use of the sub-
stances in homes and the ﬁeld. According to the Times, the “scientists all but told
the Department of Agriculture to stop its controversial mass sprayings to eradicate
gypsy moths, ﬁre ants and two types of beetles.” Nevertheless, continued concerted
eﬂort will have to be made in this direction, for mass sprayings have continued
in many localities.

Laboratory Visits

During the summer of 1962, a young British physiologist, Miss Jenny Remfry,
worked with the AWI and deVOted a considerable amount of time to visiting
laboratories in theuEast and South. Similar visits continued to be conducted by
other AWI representatives. Advice on needed improvements was given and
insrrucrional manuals provided on care and housing of experimental animals.

Humane Slaughter

Humane slaughter bills were introduced during the year in 15 State legi3~
latures, but, except in Oklahoma, the legislation failed. In New York it never came
out of committee. '




it 4 i.‘

The holding pen developed by the Cross Brorhers Meat Packers. of Philadel-
phia permits restraint of steers without the cruel hoisting and shackling of con-
scious animals which now takes place prior to kosher slaughter. This pen has
received the approval of Rabbinical authorities, who have issued a statement to
the eﬂ'ect that it was "overwhelmingly endorsed by the Collegium of Rabbis
responsible for Kashruth in the kosher slaughterhouses of Philadelphia” and that
"from the technical point of View as well as. the traditional, this mechanical device
was proven to facilitate the work of the ‘Schochtim’ (Ritual Slaughterers) as well
as insuring the proper handling of the animals.” Use of this pen would overcome
the major obstacle to enactment of humane slaughter legislation in New York
and New Jersey where the majority of animals are kosher killed, and thus do not
come under the provisions of the Federal Humane Slaughter Act.

California, Massachusetts, Minnesota, New Hampshire, Washington, Wis-
consin, Kansas, Rhode Island, Connecticut, Florida, Oregon, Michigan, Maryland,
Maine and Oklahoma have passed state humane slaughter legislation.

Free Publications for School Teachers

During the year over 4,000 copies of “Humane Biology Projects” and approxi-
mately 5,000 copies of "First Aid and Care of Small Animals” were sent to
teachers, librarians and Other educators who wrore to the Institute to requesr a
free copy. These manuals prepared by the AWI for teachers are profusely illus-
trated and contain 41 and 46 pages respectively.

At the annual convention of the National Science Teachers Association in
Philadelphia, 1,000 leaﬂets describing ”Humane Biology Projects” were distributed.
The manual, which went into its fourth printing this year, was used by summer
science teaching institutes in different parts of the country. We are grateful to the
American Biology Teacher, School Management, Pet Digest, Free and Inexpen-
sive Learning Materials and School and Science and Mathematics for listing the
manual. We are grateful to the following publications for listing ”First Aid and
Care of Small Animals”: Elementary Teachers Guide to Free Curriculum Ma-
terials, Free and Inexpensive Learning Materials, Wisconsin School Library List
for 1962-63, Product Information for Schools and Grade Teacher, October 1962.
At the Elementary School Science Association’s Spring conference, March, 1963,
300 copies were distributed.

Several publications, including A Wonderful \World for Children, Free and
Inexpensive Educational Aids, Educators Guide to Free Teaching Aids, and Ele-
mentary Guide to Free Curriculum Materials, have drawn the attention of
elementary school teachers to the UFAW leaﬂet, written and illuStrated by the
inimitable Fougasse, ”Good Kind Lion”. Over 4,000 copies have been sent out

5

 




 

On request during the year. Approximately 1,500 reprints of "Befriending Animals”,
published in Childhood Education, were distributed to teachers during the year,
and a variety of other informational literature made available as requested.

Laboratory Manuals

During the year, more than 900 copies of the 68-page, illustrated manual,
"Basic Care of Experimental Animals” were sent on request to laboratories. In
addition, 515 requests were received and ﬁlled for the loose-leaf manual of ﬂoor
plans and photographs, "Comfortable Quarters for Laboratory Animals” and 224
copies of the laSt supplement were provided to laboratories that already had the
earlier supplements. Through this means, laboratories planning new quarters are
enabled to receive without cost an assemblage of the beSt in animal quarters
design, a service provided by no other organization or agency. During this period
of rapid expansion. of the use of experimental animals, "Comfortable Quarters” is
a continuing project of very great importance.

The ﬁlm "Handling Laboratory Animals” continues to be made available by
the A‘Wl at cost to laboratories, as are uThe UFAW Handbook on the Care and
Management of Laboratory Animals” and Dr. Phyllis Croft’s ”An Introduction to
the Anaesthesia of Laboratory Animals.”

Meetings and Conferences

Representatives of the AWI took part in the following:

Animal Care Panel, annual meeting, Chicago, October 2-5, 1962

New York State Humane Association, Albany, N.Y., November 16, 1962

Women’s National Press Club Luncheon honoring Rachel Carson,
December 3, 1962

New York Branch, Animal Care Panel, December 7, 1962

Animal Welfare Institute, annual meeting, New York City, January 7, 1963

Kiwanis Club of New Britain, Connecticut, January 9, 1963

Ontario Humane, annual meeting, London, Ontario, April 5, 1963

A.S.P.C.A. annual meeting, New York City, May 2, 1963

Conference with Connecticut State Health Department and Pet Animal Welfare
Society representatives, Hartford, Connecticut, May 17, 1963

Man and Beast

”Man and Beast” by Major Charles W. Hume was published this year by the
Universities Federation for Animal Welfare. A collection of the Secretary-General

of UFAW’s most impressive articles, the following gives an example of his
thOught:

 




 

.‘U 4___/‘ # /

 

"ETHICS: Suffering arising out of technical requirements.

"When an experiment cannot be carried out without: the inﬂicrion of suffer-
ing, in what cases can the end justify the means? To answer this question, con-
siderations which are quantitative and yet cannot be measured have to be balanced
against one anorher. That is a difficult task, and gives rise to differences of opinion
between humane and reasonable persons, but it is what any jury has to do when
there is a conﬂict of evidence. The difficulty of the task is a reason. for devoting
care and thought to it, but not for shirking it or taking refuge in extreme views
of short cuts.

"Experiments calculated to cause pain are permitted in Britain (subjeCt,
however, to the Pain Rule) for the advancement of either 1) ”physiological” i.e.,
biological knowledge, or knowledge useful for 2) saving or prolonging life or
3) alleviating suffering. . . .

"When knowledge that will prevent a large amount of suffering can be
obtained by inﬂicting a relatively small amount, then many will hold that the end
may justify the means, though again it is a question of degree. It must be remem-
bered, however, that the value of a research is always problematical till the work
has been done. At the very leasr the objective must be clear and fully adequate,
the probability of success high. Every precaution, including economy in sampling,
muSt be taken to reduce suffering to a minimum, and there» must certainly be an
upper limit to what may be, done. In no case would it be justifiable to suspend
the Pain Rule, for instance. The second Royal Commission, ﬁve out of whose
seven members were medical, laid down that rule absolutely and without
qualiﬁcation.”

Information Reports

Following are nOtes on some additional subjects covered in the Information
Reports, issued ﬁve times a year to about 13,000 readers.

NBC Breaks Television Code with Showing of Spanish BuIIfight
(Vol. 12, No. 1). A bullﬁght ﬁlmed in Spain, complete with, planting of bandil-
l-eras, knocking down of horses and killing of a bull after infuriating him with
pain was shown at a. prime children’s Viewing hour on a Saturday afternoon,
despite the TV Code requirements: ”the detailed presentation of brutality or
physical agony by sight or by sound are nor permissible . . . The use of animals
borh in the production of television programs and as a part of television program

7

 

 




 

content shall at all times be in conformity with accepted Standards of humane
treatment."

An Education in Cruelty (Vol. 12, No. 1) described some of the
experiments by high school students entered in the National Science Fair Inter-
national wihich was held at the World’s Fair Display Hall in Seattle in 1962.
AWI statistical analysis. of the official catalogue of this Fair disclosed that 14.5%
of the total number of projects in the Fair involved the use of live vertebrate
animals. Of the total number of projects using these animals, 21.4% did nor seem
likely to interfere with the normal health and comfort of the animals; 41.1%
interfered with the normal health and comfort of the animals: and 37.5% involved
procedures likely to cause severe pain or distress. These projects are conducred
by teenagers whose skills are necessarily limited and who have no right to inflict
pain on animals in the name of science. The demoralizing influence on adolescents,
encouraged to get money and prestige by performing acts of cruelty, is serious.
Science Service, sponsor of these improper activities, is seeking a Congressional
Charter under a bill, HR. 824. It should not be granted.

It tends to dehumanize you (Vol. 12, No. 1). In sharp contrast to the
attitude which permits cruel experiments by high school students is that shown
by an Associate Professor of Surgery, Dr. Nicholas Gimbel, who wrote to a high
school girl: ”In choosing a physician, the patient has a right to look for someone
who is not only scientiﬁcally well informed and technically competent but also
who has high ethical and moral standards. Many of us think of mammalian
animals if not as brothers at leasr as cousins! We feel that animal experimentation
should always be done when the problem under consideration is unsolved and the
results of the study may possibly add important information . . . To me it seems
wrong for a young student without proper training to undertake mammalian
studies, the results of which have already been established in the literature. The
Study can be just as interesting and the science fair just as informative and the
project have jusr as good a chance of winning the blue ribbon if it is made with
plants or paramecia. One of the real disadvantages of carrying out a study under
the conditions you would most likely work is that it tends to dehumanize you.”

Eternal hostility (Vol. 12, N0. 2). The National Society for Medical
Research continued its opposition to S. 553 and HR. 5430 for the humane treat-
ment of laboratory animals. They characterized supporters of the bills as "con-
ﬁdence men”, "swindlers", and followers of Machiavelli.

Wilderness bill (Vol. 12, N0. 3). S. 4, the Wilderness Bill, passed the
U.S. Senate by a large majority in approximately the same form as it was approved

8

 

 

 




 

 

 

by the Senate lasr year. Opposition of leaders of lumbering and mining interests
has been Strong. No acrion has been taken by the Interior and Insular Affairs
Committee of the House of Representatives.

Humane trapping bill (Vol. 12, No. 1). Congressman William Broom-
ﬁeld reintroduced his bill to require humane methods of trapping animals and
birds on lands and waterways under the jurisdiction of the United States. The bill
calls for imposing a ﬁne of not more than $500 or six months’ imprisonment, or
borh, for anyone who places or causes to be placed upon land or waters owned by
the United States, any trap, snare, net or Other device designed to trap or capture
any animal or bird in any manner by which the animal or bird is not either cap-
tured painlessly or killed instantly, or who fails. to inspect and empty his trap,
snare, or net at least once every 24 hours. No action has been taken on the bill.

 

 

 

 

.- ..._.__4

Contributions to the Animal Welfare Institute are deductilzle in computing
income tax returns, and donations, large or small, are most gratefully accepted for
ﬁne general fund or for special purposes. The extension of the Institute’s muck-needed

wore depends upon sucly support.

 

 

 

 

 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

Advisory Committee

Dr. Lee R. Dice Rachel L. Carson Dr. Joseph Wood Krutch David Ricardo
Oﬂiccrs
Christine Stevens, President 0 Alfred R. Glancy, Jr., Vice-President
Madeleine Bemelmans, Secretary 0 Roger L. Stevens, Treasurer

Estella Draper, Executive Secretary

 




 




THIRTEEN TH ANNUAL REPORT

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

22 East 17th Street

New York 3, New York

 




 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

THIRTEENTH ANNUAL REPORT OF THE
ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
22 East 17th Street, New York, N. Y. 10003
(July 1, 1963 to June 30, 1964)

Laboratory Animal Consultant Service

A new service was offered this year by the Animal Welfare Institute, made
possible by the generosity of an interested donor. This special project, which
began on January ﬁrst, 1964, includes collecting and distributing valuable infor-
mation on the care and housing of experimental animals, giving advice and assist-
ance to institutions who wish to improve their old facilities or plan to build new
ones, and the preparation of a ﬁlm on care and housing which will be distributed
at cost to laboratories.

Visits have been made to 45 scientiﬁc institutions in the District of Columbia,
Maryland, Michigan, Tennessee, North Carolina, South Carolina, Florida, Louisiana,
Texas, California, Utah, Oregon, Illinois, New York, and Canada. At some of
these visits the attitudes were friendly and cooperative, and we received helpful
ideas and information; at others, the inspections discovered miserable conditions
with animals suffering without any scientiﬁc justiﬁcation. Sometimes. we were able
to bring about changes and relief for the research animals that were housed in
cramped quarters and neglected; sometimes we were able to help in planning new
facilities and thereby help the laboratory to avoid mistakes that would be both
costly and troublesome to correct later on.

A start has been made on the ﬁlm which will present good conditions and
proper treatment of experimental animals in research institutions. The proper
handling of animals by caretakers and technicians which will also be demonstrated
in this ﬁlm will provide information and examples which will assist in the training
of these men. It should be an important supplement to the literature now being
provided to laboratories by the A.W.I. on housing and care of animals.

Many copies of our manuals, ”Basic Care of Experimental Animals” and
“Comfortable Quarters for Laboratory Animals,” were distributed free of charge
to interested persons, and a limited amount of work was done in inspecting ken-
nels where dogs are boarded following laboratory use and inspecting animal
suppliers.

Our visits strongly conﬁrmed the fact that, although recommended standards
of good laboratory animal care now exist and most institutions are aware of them,
they are at best only suggestions. Until there are ways and means of clearly deﬁning
and legally enforcing humane standards, many institutions will continue to in-
terpret the suggested ones loosely or ignore them altOgether.

1

 




 

Animal Protective Bills

In March the eighth bill, HR. 10138, for the humane treatment of experi-
mental animals was introduced in the US. House of Representatives by Repre-
sentative George M. Rhodes (D., Pa.). This bill is identical to the Ashley bill
(H.R. 5430) and the Clark-Neuberger bill (S. 533). Additional bills in the House
add to the strength of a bill that has already been proposed, just as additional
sponsors of a bill help it in the Senate.

Although hearings were held in the 87th Congress on bills to require humane
treatment of experimental animals, and although bills were again introduced in
the 88th Congress when it convened in 1963, nothing has been done about con~
ducting further hearings and bringing these bills out of Committee. Early this year
we were told that there would be hearings but they failed to materialize. Many
ﬁne editorials in support of the bills have appeared in newspapers all over the
country, including The New York Times, The Christian Science Monitor, The
Bee of Sacramento, Modesto and Fresno, California, The Philadelphia Inquirer,
The Christian Century, The Miami News, The Mobile Register, The Waco (Texas)
Times Herald, The Vineyard (Mass) Gazette, The Palo Alto (Calif) Times,
The Texarkana (Arkansas) Gazette, The Paducah (Ky) Sun-Democrat, The
Springﬁeld (Mass) Daily News, The St. Augustine (Fla) Record, The Atlantic
City Press, The Fort Wayne (1nd.) NewsSentinel, The Erie (Pa.) Morning News,
The Portland (Maine) Press Herald, The Kennebec Journal, The Pasadena (Calif)
Star-News, The \Waterbury (Conn) Republican and others. However, opposition
from organized science is strong. The American Medical Association has developed
what it describes as a "task force” to block the legislation that is needed. Weak,
substitute measures will be pushed by opponents of the Clark-Neuberger, Ashley
and Rhodes bills in order to prevent their passage when the 89th Congress con-
venes in 1965.

No action was taken on HR. 10026, introduced by Representative Rhodes
to require humane treatment of livestock transported by truck from one state to
another. This long overdue legislation would extend the 28-hour law (which now
protects animals travelling by rail) to help animals being shipped by motor ve-
hicles. Since about 90% of livestock are now transported by truck with crippling,
bruising and death common occurrences, the need for legislation is evident. A
decade ago large trucking interests defeated similar legislation with the result that
at present there are no humane controls on the transportation of most lambs, calves,
cattle and swine, and abuses are continuing without abatement.

Wild Animals and Birds Bill

In July, 1963 the Senate Finance Committee held hearings on HR. 1839, a
bill which had passed the House without hearings earlier in the year. The bill
would have permitted the duty-free importation of wild birds and animals by com-

2

 

 

 

men
and

info
We]

W215

Pro

Cod
Sect
dev<
The
YOr
tion
but
any
alth
left

Scl




mercial animal dealers and exhibitors at fairs and roadside zoos where forlorn
and mistreated creatures are on display to amuse and obtain money from an un-
informed public. Testimony against the bill was presented on behalf of the Animal
Welfare Institute and other humane and conservation organizations, and no action
was taken on it for eleven months.*

Proposed Revision of State Criminal Laws

The Temporary State Commission on Revision of the Penal Law and Criminal
Code of New York has published their suggested revision of the New York Laws.
Section 250.55, Cruelty to Animals, is less than a page in length and half of it is
devoted to exempting laboratories from the prohibition against cruel mistreatment.
The proposed revision would reduce the present laws to a mere token law. New
York humane groups and individuals are strongly opposed to the proposed dele-
tions and weakening of the anti-cruelty laws. It is difficult to help animals as it is,
but with the present laws curtailed, it would be almost impossible to prosecute
anyone for cruelty. A similar battle has been fought and won in Minnesota, where
although revised laws were adopted, the cruelty to animals sections of the law were
left intact. ’

Schweitzer Medal and Annual Meeting

At the annual meeting of the A.W.I., December 16th, Ambassador Richard
C. Patterson, Jr, Commissioner of Public Events of the City of New York, pre-
sented the Schweitzer Medal to Ann Cottrell Free, author and journalist, for her
effective endeavors in helping to free the test beagles of the Food and Drug Ad-
ministration from the windowless sub-basement where some of them had been
caged for seven years. Ambassador Patterson made a second unexpected presenta-
tion of a Certificate of Appreciation from Mayor Robert F. Wagner.

Mr. Leo Miller, Deputy Commissioner of the United States Food and Drug
Administration, in his speech to the A.W.I. members, emphasized the gains which
will be achieved in forthcoming tests in the new quarters, pointing out that test
dogs are indeed valuable animals and that humane housing and care of them not
only decreases waste, but increases scientific accuracy.

At this meeting, the President of the Society for Animal Protective Legisla-
tion, Mrs. Ludwig Bemelmans, urged continued efforts to bring about enactment of

*The bill ﬁnally came to the ﬂoor of the Senate in July, 1964 with a major bill on meat
imports attached to it as a “rider”. As a result of widespread public protest, the section
referring to wild animals and birds was deleted. Senator Kenneth B. Keating (R. N.Y.)
offered the humane amendment, and Senator Jacob K. Javits (R., N.Y.) and Senator
Joseph S. Clark (D., Pa.) joined him as co—sponsors. The Senate was unanimous in
voting deletion of the wild animal and bird provision. However, in a Senate—House con-
ference to which the bill was next referred, a minor compromise was made which allows
a. dealer to import an animal for sale to a municipal 200 without a speciﬁc order from
that zoo. This will give the US. Customs additional work checking the ultimate des-
tination of animals, but if strictly enforced should not be seriously detrimental.

3

 




 

S. 533, the Clark-Neuberger bill and HR. 5430, the Ashley bill, for the humane
treatment of experimental animals. She emphasized the need for increased public
demand to obtain favorable action especially in the face of vehement opposition.

Publications

The A.W.I. continued to distribute thousands of copies of its manuals which
are free to teachers, librarians and other educators, on request, one copy to a
teacher. During the year we distributed 4,714 copies of ”Humane Biology Projects”,
a 44-page illustrated manual prepared for high school use, and 3,819 copies of
”First Aid and Care of Small Animals.” A concise and convenient 48-page booklet,
illustrated with 23 photographs, it was written for the Institute by Ernest P. Walker,
former Assistant Director of the National Zoological Park in Washington, D.C.,
and is a source of information on the care of many small animals with which we
are familiar but about whose care most people know little.

In addition, 60,000 copies of ”Rules Governing Treatment of Animals by
High School Biology Students” were distributed by the National Science Teachers
Association, and hundreds of small booklets and leaﬂets sent to children who re-
quested help in caring for their pets.

Meetings and Conferences
A.W.I. representatives attended the following:

Conference on Veterinary Toxicology, New York Academy of Sciences,
New York City, July 26, 1963

American Veterinary Medical Association, annual meeting, New York
City, July 29-31, 1963

Animal Care Panel, annual meeting, Los Angeles, Calif., Oct. 1-4, 1963

New York State Humane Association, annual meeting, Port Jervis, N. Y.,
October 24-25, 1963. The President of A.W.I. spoke on humane treat-
ment of laboratory animals

National Capitol Area Branch, Animal Care Panel, Washington, DC»,
November 13, 1963, President of the A.W.I. spoke on ”The Principles
of Human Experimental Technique”. (see INFORMATION REPORT,
Vol. 12, No. 5)

Animal Welfare Institute meeting, New York City, December 16, 1963

Florida Federation of Humane Societies annual meeting, March 20, 1964-
The President of A.W.I. spoke on humane legislation for experimental
animals.




Rachel Carson

On April 14th, 1964, Rachel Carson died. A life that had been devoted to
the observation of nature and pursuit of knowledge which she wished all to share,
came to an end. Our loss is great, but the world has been enhanced because she
lived. The books she wrote, ”The Edge of the Sea,” "Under the Sea Wind,” and
“The Sea Around Us,” brought to many readers a richer experience of the sea and
its mysteries, and “Silent Spring” to which she devoted four of her last years,
compellingly called attention to the fact that the indiscriminate use of pesticides
was endangering life of all kinds. Although her warnings were disparaged by many,
it became evident before she died that her warnings had been timely and true.

Rachel Carson was quiet and modest, intelligent and well-informed. Because
of her great love of nature she wrote poetically, becaue of her longing to preserve
its beauty she wrote sincerely, and because of her determination to do something
to correct the appalling mistakes that are being made, she wrote forcefully. The
result was one of the most memorable books of our time' and will long remind us
of a great service to mankind by a gentle and courageous woman.

For many years Miss Carson was a member of the Advisory Committee of the
Animal Welfare Institute, and we will always be grateful for her wise and gener-
ous c0unselling.

New Advisor and Staff Appointments

We are happy to announce that Dr. F. Barbara Orlans, B.Sc., M.Sc., PhD.
has joined the Advisory Committee of the Animal Welfare Institute. Dr. Orlans
received her degrees from Birmingham University and the University of London
and has spent four years in research at the Laboratory of Chemical Pharmacology,
National Heart Institute, National Institutes of Health. A number of her papers
have been published in American and British journals of physiology, pharma-
cology and experimental therapeutics.

Working under the British Act of 1876 and in the United States has given
Dr. Orlans a wide range of experience and understanding of how legislation affects
the welfare of experimental animals and the attitude of labratory personnel. We
are most fortunate in having the beneﬁt of Dr. Orlans’ good judgment and advice.

New staff appoints include Mr. Thomas Kind, Laboratory Animal Consultant,
Mrs. Robert Dyce, Assistant to the Laboratory Animal Consultant, Miss Alexandra
Peschka, Executive Secretary, replacing Miss Estella Draper, and Mrs. Paul Lewis,
Technical Secretary.

Student Cruelty Prevented

In January, the New York State Senate was asked to consider a bill to exempt

5

 




 

biology classes from the anti-cruelty laws. Its passage would have meant that high
school and even grade school students could perform painful experiments on living
animals.

Upon being notiﬁed that such legislaton was imminent, the public, deeply
shocked, ﬂooded the legislators with vehement protests. The sponsor, Senator
George Metcalf withdrew the bill, stating that the Department of Education, at
whose request he had introduced it, had given him “misleading information.”

At the request of Raymond Naramore, President of the New York State Hu-
mane Association, Senator Thomas Laverne and Assemblyman William Rosenberg
introduced bills speciﬁcally to prohibit high schools or grade schools from using
live, vertebrate animals in any experiment that would adversely affect the animals’
health and comfort. Unfortunately, the measure, which was introduced shortly be-
fore the New York legislative bodies adjourned, was not reported out of committee.

In the State of Washington, humane rules governed the Science Fair held in
Spokane in April. Starvation experiments were not permitted, nor was any verte-
brate animal allowed to be used in a project which interfered with its normal health
or caused it pain or distress. This was in line with the bulletin issued in December
by the Superintendent of Public Instruction for the state, in which he said, ”Many
sensitive youngsters can very readily form lasting impressions and prejudices which
are not at all desirable if their science classes include callous treatment or neglect
of living things. . . A general philosophy of thoughtfulness and consideration for
living things should be incorporated and repeatedly emphasized in all science teach-
ing.” It is hoped that this enlightened point of view will spread to Boards of
Education in other states.

Conservation and Wildlife

The most important conservation measure to pass this year was the Wilder-
ness Bill.

A major conservation discovery with important humane implications is a
chemical that separates oil from salt water. Its use was begun this year by three
of the biggest oil companies. Formerly, ballast water was pumped overboard before
taking on a new cargo. Now it is treated with a demulsiﬁer, and the oily residue
which has caused the death by starvation of thousands of sea birds when dumped
into the sea, is retained on board.

British legislation has again led the way with passage of the Deer Act which
outlaws the use of how and arrow, a method of deer hunting which causes vast
amounts of needless suffering. The new law also prohibits night shooting and
shooting from vehicles. «9

In the ﬁeld of water pollution, the US. Department of Health, Education
and Welfare identified Endrin and Dieldrin as the chemicals responsible for the

6

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

killing of millions of fish in the lower Mississippi drainage basin. Though the indi-
vidual citizen is powerless to prevent agricultural use of these dangerous pesticides
at the present time, he can contribute to the general effort by refusing to buy de-
tergents which contain alkyl benzene sulfonate (ABS) the most toxic and long-
lasting component of about 85% of all detergents. There is no known way to
remove ABS from water once it has entered a stream.

Predator control was the subject of an editorial in the New York Timer, April
eighth. It pointed to the dangers of aerial broadcasting of grain treated with So-
dium ﬂuoroacetate and made it clear that the present army of government predator
hunters and the funds appro'priated to maintain them are doing great harm.

Information Reports

The INFORMATION REPORTS are now sent to about 13,000 readers. Follow-
ing are notes on additional subjects reported in them:

Humane Posters by Young African Artists (Vol. 12, No. 4). The
100 best entries among over 800 submitted in a poster contest held by the Humane
Education Institute of Africa, were shown at the Hudson Branch of the New York
Public Library and will be available for display by other interested organizations.
Ten African countries are represented. For information, please address the A.W.I.

Dissemination of Knowledge of Anesthesia (V01. 12, N0. 4)- On
May 22nd a Committee for the Preparation of a Guide on Laboratory Animal
Anesthesia met in Washington to plan a technical guide on anesthesia and pain—
avoidance. In Britain a symposium on the same subject was held in July.*

The American Physiological Society has revised its “Guiding Principles on the
Care and Use of Animals” to include the statement that ”Curarizing agents are
not anesthetics.” The use of curare and similar “relaxants” which paralyze but
do not cause the animal to lose consciousness, can inﬂict terrible pain on animals
subjected to surgery, and we heartily approve the issuance of this statement by the
Physiological Society. Curare-like drugs are being more widely used today than
ever before, and their use should be strictly controlled.

Repeated experiments on a single animal were outlawed by the Con-
necticut State Health Commissioner under the ”Dog Law.” (Vol. 12, No. 4).

Mass shipments of monkeys for vaccine manufacture may end as the
result of studies of cell cultures. An article on the subject was written for A.W.I.

by Dr. Leonard Hayﬂick. (Vol. 13, No. 2).

 

*Now published in book form by the Pergamon Press, under the auspices of the Univerr
sities Federation for Animal Welfare and the BI‘ltISh Small Animalsj/netermary Ass-ov-
ciation: “Proceedings of the Symposium on Small Animal AnaestheSIa.

7T}
{4‘ :,

 




 

U.S. Vivisection Battle: a British Denial was the subject of an article
in The New Scientzltt correcting misstatements by the National Society for Medical
Research about the British Act of 1876 and the present Royal Commission. (Vol.
13, No. 3). Additional information on the British Act appears in INFORMATION
REPORT, Vol. 13, No. 1.

Humane Slaughter. France has now joined the list of nations requiring
humane slaughter. A decree issued this April provides that livestock must be
rendered unconscious prior to shackling, hoisting and bleeding. An exemption
from prior stunning is made for ritual slaughter with the condition that, within
one year, means are provided to avoid bruising the animal before it is slaughtered.
A television appeal by Brigitte Bardot resulted in tens of thousands of letters call-
ing for an end to needless cruelty, and the April decree marks the successful result
of that demand. (Vol. 13, No. 3).

Animal Machines. A shocking report on ”factory farming” in England
was written by Ruth Harrison. Published under the title of ”Animal Machines”, it
describes methods of producing chickens, hogs, and calves by modern intensive
methods which are brutal and callous. In a preface to the book, Rachel Carson has
written, ”I ﬁnd it inconceivable that healthy animals can be produced under the
artiﬁcial and damaging conditions that prevail in these modern factorylike instal-
lations, where animals are grown and turned out like so many inanimate objects.”
Production of eggs and broilers by the “battery system" originated in and is ex-
tensively used in our country. (Vol. 13, No. 2).

A symposium on laboratory animals was held in Bern, Switzerland,
May 4, 1963 under the direction of Dr. W. H. Weihe. Over 100 scientists of
different disciplines and nationality attended seven main lectures. The A.W.I. ap-
preciates Dr. Weihe’s comment: ”In North America the Animal Welfare Institute
of New York endeavors to provide enlightenment about experimental animals.”
(Vol. 12, No. 5).

 

 

Contributions to the Animal Welfare Institute are deductible in computing
income tax returns, and donations, large or small, are most gratefully accepted
for the general fund or for special purposes. The extension of the Institute’s

much-needed work depends upon such support.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

Advisory Committee
Dr. Lee R. Dice Dr. Joseph Wood Krutch David Ricardo Dr. F. Barbara Orlansr

Officers
Christine Stevens, President 0 Alfred R. Glancy, J11, Vice-President
Madeleine Bemelmans, Secretary 0 Roger L. Stevens, Treasurer

 

 

 




 




 




FOURTEENTH ANNUAL REPORT

Photb by' Erica Anderson
Courtesy Harper & Row

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

P. O. Box 3492, Grand Central Station,
New York, N. Y. 10017

 




 

FOURTEENTH ANNUAL REPORT
OF THE

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
P. O. Box 3492, Grand Central Station,
New York, N. Y. 10017

(July 1, 1964 to June 30, 1965)

The Littlewood Report

The most important event in the past year with respect to the treat—
ment accorded laboratory animals in different parts of the world was the
issuance of the “Report of the Departmental Committee on Experiments
on Animals (Chairman: Sir Sidney Littlewood) Presented to ParliamSﬂt
by the Secretary of State for the Home Department by Command of Her
Majesty, April, 1965.” This unanimous report, the result of a two—year
study during which time everyone who wished to express himself was
given an opportunity to do so, demonstrates conclusively the soundness of
the British system of regulating animal experimentation. The c0111111itt€€
made numerous recommendations for still further improving the Act and
its administration, but these recommendations all fall within the existing
framework and do not alter either the purpose or methods which have
worked so well for nearly ninety years.

The lead article of the British Medical Journal for May 8, 1965 was re—
printed in full in Vol. 14, No. 3 of the AWI Information Report and
shows the approval of that body both of the Act and of the report of the
Littlewood Committee.

The Universities Federation for Animal Welfare is referred to re-
peteadly throughout the body of the report, and the Royal Society for the
Prevention of Cruelty to Animals is eager to see the recommendations it
made implemented. Thus, a subject capable of inspiring the most violent
controversy has been successfully dealt with by preventing the needlessly
cruel experiments which are conducted in countries which lack legislation
of this type and by recognizing, as the report states, that “The role of
1€gislat10n is to prohibit objectionable activities, to encourage humane

practices, and to provide for the accountability to the public of all con—
cerned.”

The need for similar legislation in the United States, Canada, Japan
and Greece has been very fully documented by animal protective workers
in these countries. Undoubtedly, many other nations are equally in need
of the guidance so conveniently available in the form of the Littlewood
Report. A limited number of copies is available at cost ($3.25) from thﬁ
AWI; or they may be ordered from the British Information Office. Sales
Division, 845 Third Avenue, New York, N. Y. 10022.

Bills To Require Humane Treatment Of Experimental Animals.

On February 9, 1965, Senator joseph S. Clark (D., Pa.) again intro—
duced his bill, S. 1071, for humane treatment of laboratory animals with
the following co—sponsors: Senator E. L. Bartlett (D., Alaska), SGHEI’EOI‘

 

 

 




 

 

Harry F. Byrd (D., Va), Senator E. L. Muskie (D., Maine), and Sen-
ator Stephen Young (1)., Ohio). Senator Clark stated on the Senate
Floor: “The growing list of co-sponsors is representative of an increasing
awareness of the problems which this bill attacks and of the need for
legislation to deal with these problems. This is not a liberal or a con—
servative, a rightwing Or a leftwing measure. It has broad ideological sup—
port. It has the support of all men, both liberal and conservative, who are
concerned about the kind of record our civilization is making in caring for
helpless, speechless, voteless animals who can form no pressure group or
lobby of their own. but must rely entirely on the compassion of those who
can speak out and can vote.”

On March second, Congressman James C. Cleveland (R., N. H.) in—
troduced an identical bill. In introducing the bill he said: “Humane pro-
tection for laboratory animals is a proper concern for any civilized society.
I have studied many proposals and am convinced my bill will provide stand-
ards of humane treatment without impairing legitimate research. It fol—
lows closely the guidlines established in England in 1876. That law is still
in force today and has the approval of the overwhelming majority of re-
sponsible British scientists . . . British medical research ranks with
the best in the world. It has not been harmed by the law requiring humane
care of animals. Surely, we can do no less, and I shall do everything in
my power to see that this bill becomes law.”

Press support for the bill. was widespread and strong. Among the newspa—
pers urging enactment of the bill were : The Courier-Journal of Louisville,
Kentucky, The Christian Science Monitor, The Washington Post, The Dallas
( T ex.) News, The Denver (Colo.) Post, The Oregonian, The Milwaukee
(\Vis.) Sentinel, The Sacramento (Calif.) Bee, The Ann Arbor (Mich)
News, The Tacoma (\Vash.) News Tribune, The Albany (N.Y.) Times
Union. The (i)rlando (F la.) Sentinel, The Erie (Pa) Morning News, The
Keene (N. H.) Evening Sentinel, The Aspen (Colo.) Times, The Camden
(N. J.) Courier-Post, The Southern Pines (N.C.) Pilot, The Mount
Kisco (N. Y.) Patent Trader, The Bethesda—Chevy Chase (Md) Tribune,
The Manchester (N.H.) Union Leader, The Montgomery (Ala) Ad-
vertiser, The Dallas (Tex) Times Herald, The Bowling Green (Ky.)
Park City News, The Royal Oak (Mich) Tribune, The Danbury (Conn.)
News—Times, The Bergen (N.J) Record, The Deseret News (Utah),
The Wakefield (Mass) Item, The Pike County (Pa.) Dispatch, The
Lakeville (Conn.) Journal, The Decatur (Ala.) Daily, The Trenton
(N.J) Times, The Mobile (Ala.) Register, The Laconia. (NHH) Eve—
ning Citizen, The Newton (Conn.) Bee, The Milford (N. Y.) Roundt‘able,
The New Milford (Conn.) Times, The Easton (Md) Star-Democrat,
The Pawling (N.Y.) News—Chronicle, The Battle Creek (Mich) En—
quirer and News, The Chatham (N. Y.) Courier, The Meriden (Conn.)
Journal, The Louisville (Ky) Times, The Beaver (Pa) Times, The
Port Jervis (N .Y.) Union Gazette, The Kingston (N.Y.) Daily Free-
man, The Fairbault (Minn) News, The Walden (N. Y.) Citizen Herald,
the Atlantic City (N.J) Press, The Medford (Oregon) Tribune, The
Athens (Ohio) Messenger, The Greenville (S. C.) Piedmont, The Auburn
(N. Y.) Citizen-Advertiser, The Vineyard Gazette (Edgartown, Mass),
The Ocean City (N.J) Daily Observer, The Kennebec Journal (Augusta,
Maine), The Saugerties (N. Y.) Post, The Verona (N. J.) Cedar Grove
Times.

 

 




The editorials called for hearings; but at the end of the year covered
in this report, none had been held. *

The A\V I is grateful, too, for the active support of individual com-
mentators, Marc Greene, of the Providence (R. I.) Journal, June Havoc
of VVOR and \VOR—TV, and Randi, whose all-night radio program on
the same station has repeatedly rerun the debate in which Dr. L. R. Christ-
ensen and Dr. Richard Egan opposed Dr. Orlans and Mrs. Stevens, who-
represented the AVVI position. Senator Clark, Dr. Paul Kiernan, and
Dr. John W’alsh appeared in taped interviews on Miss Havoc’s television
program, and a general discussion with pictures of conditions in lab-
oratories included Bob Considine, Cleveland Amory, Miss Havoc and
Mrs. Stevens. Public response to Miss Havoc’s program was tremendous.

Laboratory Animal Consultant

The AVVI consultant service has continued during the past year
through the generosity of a donor whose understanding of the need for
this work and determination to see it done deserves the very highest
praise. Dr. Anthony Carding, a British veterinarian who had done sim-
ilar work for the Greek Animal \Nelfare Society, spent three months in
the United States Visiting laboratories with Mrs. Robert Dyce acting as
his assistant; and on his departure for Japan to carry on similar work
there, Mrs. Dyce was appointed to the position of Laboratory Animal
Consultant for the Institute. At the same time she received an appoint—
ment from the Governor of Michigan to the Advisory Committee on the
Humane Use of Animals, provided for under the laws of the State.

Mrs. Dyce, Dr. Carding, and Mr. Thomas Kind, the first Con-
sultant who has now returned to England, visited a total of 86 major
scientific institutions which use animals for experimental purposes since
the beginning of the project in January, 1964.

Improvements have been made in a number of the institutions visit-
ed; in particular, four in Michigan where the power of State law can
be invoked to require the necessary changes to be made. Most institutions
accept visits, even though they may or may not follow the advice received
from the AWI Laboratory Animal Consultants. However, a few lab—
oratories (for example, the University of Illinois, which has been featur—
ed in national publicity as being outstandingly excellent for the animals
and open to inspection by the public) have refused admission to one or
more of the Consultants; and in other institutions when changes have
been promised but not carried out, it has been difficult to pursue the
matter. The Consultant experience points to the importance of being able
to follow up information and education with mandatory action if necessary.

The Schweitzer Medal To Patrolman Mobley

Patrolman John Mobley of the Detroit Police Force was Schweitzer
medallist for 1964. He won the medal through his protest against mls-
treatment and neglect of a dog used in experimental surgery at \Vayne

* Hearings were held before the Health and Safety Subcommittee of the House
Interstate and Foreign Commerce Committee, September 30, 1965, and a continua—
tion of the hearings after the Congressional recess is expected. '

 

 




State University College of Medicine. He stated:

“At about 9:30 P.M., on Thursday, July 9, 1964, while working
Sect. 1-1 with Patrolman Bloomfield, we received a radio run to the Mem-
orial Hospital about a complaint. Upon arriving, the head nurse at the
information desk stated a dog in the Wayne University Laboratory was
moaning and crying for three hours. It was disturbing the patients at the
hospital. We went to the laboratory, and the night watchman took us
to the basement, where we found two dogs in steel cribs. One. looked
dead but the other was crying as if in great pain. Blood and foreign mat-
ter was pouring from the mouth. Some of. the blood was dry‘ indicating
the dog was left to suffer some time.

“The dog seemed paralyzed, and the tongue was gagging the dog
to the point it could not get sufficient air. I asked the night watchman
what doctor was in attendance of the dogs if they were in a post-operative
state, and he merely stated that no one watches them, and everyone had
gone home. He said they are only interested in the time it takes before
they die.

“If this is called for, in the advancement of science, then GOD HELP

US ALL.”

Michigan State Health Commissioner, Dr. Albert Heustis, took de—
termined action and listed eight specific requirements for changes in the
care and treatment of the dogs, stating, “The Michigan Department of
Health has placed the animal quarters of Wayne State University on proba-
tion for thirty days, and we will seek compliance with the following pro-
cedures.” These included the provision of post—operative drugs, adequate
exercise, the availability of a responsible doctor at all times, and the re-
quirement that rounds be made when scientific personnel were not on
duty by someone properly trained in the care of sick animals. These stand—
ards should be in effect in all laboratories. Unfortunately, it is the rare
institution which lives up to them.

Publications

Basic C are of Experimental Airzrimals. A new, revised edition was pub—
lished this year including a short chapter by Dr. Harry C. Eschenroeder.
The Use of Pre and Post Operative Analgesics in Experimental Animal
Medicine.” Dr. Eschenroeder notes: Many investigators are unfamiliar
with the fact that these drugs are both scientifically advantageous and
aid greatly in humane handling of animals. It is indeed true "that good
scientific technique and humane treatment are so closely allied that they
are almost inseparable.” The manual continues to be available free on
request to scientific institutions so that each animal technician or care-
taker may have a copy. 1717 copies were requested and sent last year.

Studying Our Fellow ﬁlammals, by Ernest P. Walker, author of the
classic, Mammals 0f the W'mfla’, published by the. John Hopkins Press
in 1964. The new book is moving rapidly toward publication. The mag-
nificent photographs are entirely assembled, and final editing is under-
way. The book will be available from the AWI at one dollar per copy to
the general public and will be available free to teachers.

Animals and Thai-r Legal Rights, by Emily Leavitt. Mrs. Leavitt has
systematically studied and analyzed the. anti—cruelty laws of the various

 




states and is now at work completing the book so long needed in our
country to give a clear understanding both of existing animal protective
laws and of those which need to be passed to bring our standards at least
to the level of the western European countries which have given serious
thought to the matter. Completion of the manuscript is expected in 1966.
Mrs. Leavitt’s work, begun in her spare time while employed as librarian
at Montclair State Teachers’ College. has been made possible by a grant
from a generous donor. Note: Animals and the Late, by T. G. Field—
Fisher, Barrister—at—Law, is a concise book on British legislation in this

field. (z‘\vailable from AYVI, $1.50.)

Comfortable Quarters for Laboratory Animals. Numerous photographs
and plans have been collected, and a revised edition will be issued dur—
ing 1966. 247 copies were distributed on request to scientific institutions
during the year.

Humane educational materials requested by teachers throughout the
United States are constantly supplied by the AWI. A few totals for the
year: First Aid and Care of Small Aiiz'iiials': 2842; Hurt/wane Bio—
logy Projects: 1713. A listing of materials available from the
AWL including numerous publications of its sister society in Britain,
the Universities Federation for Animal Welfare, is available on request.

Protection Of The State Anti-Cruelty Laws

After a fierce campaign, the New York State Humane Association
prevailed against those who would have curtailed the anti—cruelty statutes;
and the bill amending the entire Penal Law of the State of New York
was amended to preserve all the laws against cruelty to animals and to
transfer them to the Agriculture and Markets Act.

This was an important victory, coming as it did after a similar vic-
tory in Minnesota. Attempts to. weaken and restrict the anti—cruelty laws
in other states are certain to be made in accordance with. the unsound
and inhumane recommendations put forth by the American Law Institute
in their so-called “Model Code.” Humanitarians in all states may take
heart and should never give in to the efforts to qualify cruelty by requir—
ing proof of intent or to throw out specific animal protective laws which
are necessary to prevent cruelty through the medium of warnings or to
punish it, when necessary, through convictions.

.New York State law is often followed by other states. It does not
require that sadistic intent be proved.

Meetings, Exhibits, Speeches and Programs
All/1”] boot/z exhibits were presented at:
Canadian Society for Animal Care, Montreal, October 23—24, 1965

American Animal Hospital Association annual convention, Washing-

ton, D. C. March 14—19, 1965

Animal Kingdom Exhibit, World’s Fair, arranged by Cleveland Amory,
April—October, 1965. 50,000 copies of Y 011 and Your Dog and 50,000 copies
of Kittens and Cats were given to children who visited the exhibit.

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

AWI President spoke at the following meetings:

Canadian Society for Animal Care, “The Importance of the Animal
Techmc1an.”

New York State Humane Association, annual meeting, Poughkeepsie,
N. Y., October 31, 1964 (AWI President elected president of the Associa—
tion)

Western Reserve Kennel Club, Cleveland, Ohio, November 3, 1964

St. Louis Branch, Animal Care Panel, St. Louis, Mo., November 18, 1964
(panel discussion at Washington University Medical School)

Animal \Velfare Institute, annual meeting, New York City, November 21.,

1.964

W KCR Columbia University interview, February 1, 1965
Women's City Club, \Vashington, D. C., February 28, 1965
Animal Rescue League, annual meeting, Washington, D. C.

Agricultural and Technical College, Delhi, N.Y. (to class in Animal
Science Technology) May 14, 1965

ADV] members 1‘00]: part in:
A\V I Benefit, French Embassy, \Vashington, D. C. October 24, 1964

Animal Care Panel, annual meeting, New York City, September 21-25,
1964

Michigan Federation of Humane Societies, annual meeting, Lansing,
Michigan.

Curare And Other “Relaxants”

The University of California at Los Angeles issued rules with respect
to procedures required when drugs which paralyze without anesthetizing
are used. The University requires that “all personnel working with curariz—
ed preparation shall sign a copy of this notice indicating that they have
read and understand its contents.” The requirements of the American
Physiological Society are as follows: “In describing surgical procedures
on animals, the type and dosage of the anesthetic agent should be spe-
cified. Curarizing agents are not anesthetics; if these are used, evidence
must be provided that anesthesia of a suitable grade and duration was
employed.” This is an area of most serious concern in the prevention of
extreme pain in laboratory animals.

Information Reports

In addition to the material covered in this annual report, articles
which appeared in the Information Report during the year include: “The
Seals of the Pack Ice,” by Dr. Harry Lillie; “The Animal in Greece,” by
Dr. Anthony Carding; a reprint of sections of a long article on animal
welfare in India by Dr. H. E. Bywater; Unwarranted Pain Infliction at
National Science Fair,” by Dr. F. Barbara Orlans, AWI Advisor; a let-
ter to The Lancet, by Major C. W. Hume, Founder of the Universities
Federation for Animal Welfare; a reprint from Science of “Long-Term

 




 

Isolation Stress in Rats,” by Anita l-latch, Tiber Balazs, G. S. \Viberg,
and H. C. Grice, which demonstrates that the isolation of animals is a
most serious error in animal husbandry. These articles by highly qualified
authors have helped. to spread accurate information both on existing mis—
tr tatment of anii‘nals and on, effective ways of preventing it. Back issues of:
In formation Reports are a Vailable from the AVVI on request.

 

C0nz‘rilmz‘ums 10 the Animal [Welfare Institute are deductible in
rain/inning inmvnu’ fax returns, and (long/ions, large or mnill, are 111051"

gratefully acre/ﬂed for the general fund or for special fur/Worm. lec (Lar—
tension of l/IC lns‘li/ule's nunilz—nemlml Ivor/c (le/u’nrls‘ n/wn xurlz support.

 

 

 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

i-l(l':'ixm”_\' ('nnuni/lvv
Dr. Lee R. Dice Dr. Joseph \Vood Krutch David Ricardo Dr. I“. Barbara Orlans
0 ll 12‘ U 1‘s
Christine Stevens, I’l‘cs‘ulmvl‘ Alfred R. (_,§lancy, J11. I'z'l‘c-lb‘vxzklvnl
Madeleine lemelmans, Sucre/(try Roger L. Stevens. 'l‘rmsurcr

 




FIFTEENTH ANNUAL REPORT

Photo by Stan Wayman
Courtesy of Life magazine

“Lucky,” the dog on the opening pages of the February 4th Life magazine report,
“Concentration Camps for Dogs.” “Lucky” was purchased by AWI Laboratory
Animal Consultant, Dorothy Dyce, at an Oklahoma dog auction. He was placed
in a good home and has completely recovered from the starvation and disease he
suffered at the hands of dog dealers.

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
P. O. Box 3492, Grand Central Station
New York, N. Y. 10017

 




 

AWI Grant on Habitat of White Mice in a Laboratory Environment

A paper published by the M S U Votorizrzarian reports the work of
Helene Artsay in a carefully recorded study of laboratm‘y mice (the most
commonly used of all laboratory animals) in cages offering different
types of bedding or complete lack of bedding. A strong repugnance was
shown by the mice against having to sleep on wire mesh or on unclean
solid cages. They all preferred cedar shavings.

The research, carried out by Miss Artsay, now a graduate vet-
erinarian, was planned under the guidance of Dr. Lee R. Dice, AW I
Advisor. Funds for the grant were from a gift made by 1\/’lrs. Robert
S. Brookings.

AWI Laboratory Animal Consultant

During the year, Mrs. Dyce has continued to inspect: quarters for lab
o ”atory animals both in the laboratories themselves and in the dealers’
premises. The result of one of these inspecticms in (')ct<:)ber. 1965, was the.
bringing of a charge of cruelty to animals against \Yilliam and Roy
Hargrove, dog dealers of Medina, Tennessee, and Cicero, .lllinois, sup~
pliers to \Vashington University in St. Louis. l\lo., to the University of
Illinois, Chicago, and to Presbyterian-St. Luke’s Hospital. Chicago. The
triple-decker Hargrove truck has been phot<)graphcd at the Ripley,
Mississippi, T'ade Day; and the absence of the Hargrcwes on long dog
collecting and selling trips is the cause of the cruelty charge for leaving
the animals unfed and unwatered at the Medina dog farm. Photographs
showed a dog that had died, dogs too sick to get to their feet, general
filth, including a bovine skull and bones long picked cl an of any scraps
of meat by the starving dogs. A Grand Jury indicted the Hargroves on
December 27, 1965. *

In January 1966, Mrs. Dyce, taking with. her a copy of the Minn—e
eon/)olis Tribune in which Dr. Kubicek of the University of Minnesota
Medical School was quoted as saying that Visitors were welcome to come
at any time with or without a camera, went to three parts of the medical
school where experimental dogs are housed and returned with photographs
of many of the 1,400 dogs the University keeps in small cages without
exercise facilities. Since most laboratories refuse to allow photographs to be
taken of the premises, these pictures have been of great value in showing
persons who have not visited research institutions the type of needless
suffering so often routinely inflicted on animals and justified by recipients
of millions of dollars of grants from the Federal Government. (The

Univers1ty of Minnesota received over eight million dollars last year,in *

gran ts. ) _ .

Mrs. Dyce, who is a member of the Governor’s Committee on inspec-
tion of research institutions in the State of Michigan, obtained essential
mmrovements in two Michigan institutions during the year through her
reports of neglect or mistreatment of animals.

Film.

Laboratory Dogs, a film demonstrating first-rate care of experimental
dogs under the management of Ernest Belanger at the University of
Ottawa School of Med1c1ne, was nearing completion at the end of the year.

*The Hargroves were found guilty of cruelty September 2, 1966.

 

.3.

/ ‘\\J

 

 




 

Produced by Crawley Films, under the direction of Don Carter, the film
shows the personal attention and observation given the animals in quarters
where cages are never used. The remarkable results attained even in the
most severe surgical experiments are attested to by the complete physical
recovery of the animals and their great affection for the men who care
for them. The film will soon be available for purchase or rental by research
laboratories and by lay persons interested in the kind of care of ex-
perimental animals which keeps the subjects content and brings the best
research results.

Studying Our Fellow .Mammals, by Ernest 13. \Valker, was completed
and in press at the end of the AWI fiscal year to be ready for distril‘mtion
as schools reopen. '

Testimony by British Medical Leaders

On September 30, 1965, hearings were held before the House Inteh
state and Foreign Commerce Committee on bills regulating animal ex—
periments. H. R. 5647, sponsored by Congressman James C. Cleveland,
identical. to S. 1071, sponsored by Senators Joseph S. Clark, E. L. Bartlett,
Harry Byrd, Edmund Muskie, and Stephen Young, is based on the
principles of. the British Act of 1876. In order to acquaint members of
Congress with the nature of these principles and their practicality,
Sir Graham Wilson and Dr. Lawrence Abel were invited by ofﬁcers of.
the AVVI to come to Washington to: make statements on the Act and
answer questions which might be put to them by Committee members.
Sir Graham, formerly Director of the Public Health Laboratory Service
of Great Britain, praised the Littlewood Report and. described the duties
of the “specially appointed inspectors possessing a medical or veterinary
qualification. Their main purpose is regulatory and educational. rather
than disciplinary. In their visits to the laboratories, they satisfy them—
selves about the suitability of the conditions under which the animals are
kept and of the general well—being of the animals themselves . . . They do
not interfere with the nature of the procedures that the license holder
wishes to carry out, so long as they are satisfied that the animal will not
be subjected to unjustifiable pain.”

Dr. Abel, former Vice—President of the Royal College of Surgeons of
England and Consulting Surgeon to the Institute of Cancer Research,
Royal Cancer Hospital, pointed out that each research worker in Britain
“is :proud of his individual license because it is not granted to an ir-
responsible person or one with no scientific capacity.” He said, “The.
standard of responsibility is much higher in Britain than in countries which.
have no such law and very much higher than it would be without legal
sanctions.” ‘ '

Information Reports

Articles in the bi—i'nonthly Information Reports, in addition to subjects
already mentioned, included a report by Dr. Anthony Carding of the
Japan Animal Welfare Society, “Tl‘oo Many lf)ogs,” an article by Mrs.
Paul, Twyne on cruelty to Tennessee W7alking Horses, a 1761,)01‘1 on passage
of the Michigan law eliminating bounties on coyotes and foxes, a refuta—

tion of misrepresentation of the work of the AVVI in “True” magazine,

a refutation of charges of cruelty to (loljfﬂiiins by the U. S. Xavy, a state~

 




 

McIntyre bill, pending in the House Interstate and Foreign Commerce
Committee and the Senate Labor and Public Welfare Committee, which
put the Department of Health, Education and Welfare in charge of en—
forcement. Bills on the subject had been bottled up in these Committees
for Six years, and they remain bottled up.

Senator Magnuson had stated his determination to get a bill out of
his Committee, and numerous meetings and d1scuss10ns were held on the
Monroney Amendment.

On May 10, 1966, Senator Lister Hill, Chairman of the Senate Labor
and Public Welfare Committee, introduced a bill prepared by the National
Institutes of Health; and Congressman Harley O. Staggers, new Chair-
man of the House Interstate and Foreign Commerce Committee, intro-
duced an identical bill on May 25. Congressman John Fogarty, Chairman
of the Health Subcommittee of the Appropriations Committee, also
introduced this bill on May 18. Commenting on this legislation, the
’Washington Evening Star wrote:

The Animal Cruelty Bills

“Congress at last is headed toward enactment of a law to require humane
treatment of animals used in laboratory research and to halt thefts of pets by
dealers supplying this market.

“At the eleventh hour, however, a snag has been encountered in the Senate
Commerce Committee. Medical researchers, hostile to government supervision,
(but not governent grants, it should be added), are attempting a switch play.
A: bill introduced by Senator Hill of Alabama would head off federal inspec-
tion of how laboratories treat animals awaiting experiments. Instead this
authority would be given to a private group.

“The medical men, in fact, have such a group all ready and waiting. Set up
last year, it is called the American Association for Accreditation of Laboratory
Animal Care. Its members are of the establishment; all are staff members
of medical schools and research institutions. And, asthe association’s brochure
suggests, the “inspections” would be rather friendly affairs.

“There would be no surprise audits, such as those routinely carried out now
in the banking industry, for example. Instead a visit would be scheduled by
‘mutual convenience.’ It would not come distressingly often —— no more than
once every five years. The inspectors, according to the brochure, would charge
fees ranging up to $1,000 for their trouble.

“If the laboratories are in fact treating their animals humanely, they should
have nothing to fear from a proposal by Senator Magnuson of Washington that
such inspections be made by the Department of Agriculture after standards
have been published. His bill has nothing to do with the anti-vivisectionists;
the government would not interfere with any laboratory tests or operations.

“Certainly the public should not be deluded into thinking the Hill proposal

represents any kind of adequate substitute for impartial inspection of such
institutions.”

At the May 25 hearings, testimony was limited to statements by
goVernment agencies and to four medical men, two for and two against
the Monroney Amendment. Two humane medical supporters of the leg-
islation for protection of laboratory animals for which the AWI has been
work1ng since 1960 came to Washington to testify for the Monrone}f
Amendment to require humane care and housing of animals in laboratories
as well as by animal dealers: Dr. Nicholas Gimbel, Chief of Surgery,
Metropolitan Hospital, Detroit, and Professor of Clinical Surgery, Wayne
State College of Medicine, and Dr. Bennett Derby, Head of Neurology,

W




«s9

W

Veterans Administration Hospital, New York City. Opposed by the Dean-»
of the Medical School of Washington University in Seattle (Senator
Magnuson’s home state) and by Dr. Albert Sabin, discoverer of oral
polio vaccine, who testified for the N SMR, Dr. Gimbel and Dr. Derby
held their own strongly. Pointing out that the “welfare of animals should
be the responsibility of a body which is primarily interested in them...
the Department of Agriculture,” Dr. Gimbel stated, “If the scientists and
organizations represented in AAALAC had done their job properly, we
would not be holding hearings here today. The time has come to bring
in independent auditors.”

The Senate Commerce Committee followed this advice and on June 7
reported out an amended version of the House-passed H. R. 13881, in-
cluding a modified Monroney Amendment. On June 22 it went to the
Senate floor and passed with a record vote of 85 to O. The few Senators
unable to be present for the vote indicated in the next day’s Congressional
Record that, had they been there, they would have voted for it, too. Thus.
the bill went to Conference with an overwhelming Senate endorsement.

In the course of the arduous fight for the Monroney Amendment, the
sanctions had been weakened. The House conferees, therefore, under the
leadership of Congressman Poage, agreed to- accept the Senate amend-
ments (extending the humane requirements to laboratories as well as
dealers and including primates, rabbits, hamsters, and guinea pigs as
well .as dogs and cats) on condition that the Senate accept the stronger
House sanctions, including issuance of the cease and desist order to lab-
oratories by the Secretary of Agriculture himself instead of having to-
wait for court action and the provision of a penalty of $500, which will
apply to each day the facility fails to provide the humane care required
under the law. Thus the “compromise” reached was stronger and broader
than either the House-passed or the Senate-passed bill, a. remarkable
achievement.

Schweitzer Award to Supreme Court Justice Abe Fortas

The first Schweitzer medal awarded since the death of the great
humanitarian in whose name it was created was presented to Justice
Fortas by a close friend of Dr. Schweitzer’s, Erica Anderson. Mrs.
Anderson, who has made two films and written two books about his life
and Work, spoke with feeling at the AWI annual meeting. She said,
“You have kept your heart open to the silent pleas of; animals and you
have worked untiringly to alleviate their pain. If it had not been for
your efforts, the Humane Slaughter bill might not have passed in 1958. . .
You wrote the bill of which Dr. Schweitzer said: ‘If you pass such a law
in the United States, it will have important meaning for the world.’ . ..
I thank you, Mr. Justice Fortas, with all my heart for keeping Dr.
Schweitzer’s ideals alive.” Justice Fortas has, indeed kept those ideals
alive. His profound understanding of the Schweitzerian ethic was ex—
pressed in his response stressing compassion and reverence for life. He
said: “Without this awareness, there is no foundation, no ‘base tone’ for
philosophy, for religion or poetry or music — or for political idealism.
And this awareness requires — it does not merely tolerate —— it requires
that it be comprehensive, that it include all of life, not merely part —
that it include all creatures that share in the mystery.” The full text of
Justice Fortas’ remarks is published in Information Report Vol. 14, No. 5.

 




 

FIFTEENTH ANNUAL REPORT
(July 1, 1965 to June 30, 1966)

Legislation Enacted to Require Humane Care of Research Animals

The year 1965-66 climaxed six years of effort to obtain protection
for experimental animals. A dog that died on an operating table in Monte»
fiore Hospital in New York City after having passed through the hands
of four different Pennsylvania dealers started the chain of events that led
to enactment of the new law. Pepper, the pet Dalmatian of the Lakavage
family, disappeared from her home on June 22, 1965. Exactly one year
later, on June 22, 1966, the U. S. Senate voted 85 to O to make theft
of dogs or cats for research a federal offense and to require humane care
and housing of dogs, cats, primates, rabbits, guinea pigs, and hamsters
by dealers and research institutions.

Fay Brisk, of the Animal Rescue League of Berks County, Penn-
sylvania, telephoned for assistance on July 2, 1965. She reported that.
Mrs. Lakavage, accompanied by her three children, had driven to the
premises of the New York State dog farm operator, Nercessian, where
the Pennsylvania dog dealer, William Miller, stated he had taken his load
of 18 dogs and 2 goats after they had been held overnight and photo~
graphed at the animal shelter while Miller was detained on a charge of
overloading his truck. Mr. Lakavage, in the hospital with a heart attack,
had recognized Pepper’s photograph in the newspaper. His family went
in search of her at once, but the long drive to Nercessian’s was made in
vain. He would not allow Mrs. Lakavage and her children on the premises
to see if they could find their pet. Pleas to New York State ofﬁcials
proved futile.

A call to- Senator Joseph Clark’s ofﬁce led to immediate action. His
assistant, Mrs. Sara Ehrman, called the ofﬁce of Congressman Joseph Y.
Resnick in whose District the Nercessian dog farm is located. He and his
staff tried hard to gain admittance for Mrs. Lakavage. Failing this, the
Congressman went to attorneys for the U. S. Department of Agriculture
and asked them to draft a bill which would put an end to such an’ injustice.

The attorneys worked rapidly, and Congressman Resnick introduced
H.R. 9743 on July 9, 1965. Senator Clark went to the floOr to introduce
a companion bill; and Senator Warren Magnuson, Chairman of the Senate
Commerce Committee, rose on the floor for the same purpose. They co-
sponsored S. 2322, and Senator Daniel Brewster joined them in it.

The Senate bill was referred to Senator Magnuson’s Committee, which
guaranteed its serious consideration. However, Congressman Resnick’s
expectation that his bill would be referred to the Agriculture Committee
on which he serves was dashed when the parlian‘ientarian placed it in the
House Interstate and Foreign Commerce Committee, where bills relating
to laboratory animals had languished for six years without being rermrted
out. Fortunately, Congressman Harold Cooley, Chairman of the House
f\.g1’lCUltUl‘C Committee and a powerful supporter of the Federal Humane
Slaughter Law, enacted in 1958, asde that the bill be referred to the
Agriculture Committee, and this was done.

 

 

 

r~¥

 

 

 




 

 

 

Congressman W. R. Poage, author of the Humane Slaughter Act
and Chairman of the Subcommittee on Livestock of the Agriculture Com—
mittee, called hearings on September 2, 1965; and the testimony showed
the overwhelming need for the legislation. On February 2, 1966, Congress—
man Poage introduced a bill, H. R. 12488, requiring humane care and
housing of all vertebrates for research in dealers’ premises, in transit, and
in laboratories.

Life magazine carried a powerful article on cruelty by dog dealers
in its February 4, 1966, issue, the lead picture being of “Lucky,” the dog
shown on the cover of this annual report and purchased by AVVI Labora-
tory Animal Consultant, Dorothy Dyce.

A second set of hearings were held before the Poage Subcommittee,
March 7 and 8. By this time 31 bills had been introduced in the House of
Representatives on the subject, many of them identical to the Poage bill.
Variations included the Helstoski bill, which. did not require humane treat—
ment of animals inside the laboratories but which was considerably stricter
with regard to animal dealers, requiring them to provide the same care for
all vertebrate animals that a “responsible and conscientious owner” would
provide for a “household pet.” Bills introduced at the behest of "the
National Society for Medical Research also avoided entering the laboratory
and even avoided any mention of laboratories at all, simply calling for
licensing of dog and cat dealers who sold animals in interstate commerce.
The Poage Subcommittee reported its Chairman’s bill with only minor
amendments, but the full Agriculture Committee cut out all animals but
dogs and cats and pushed the jurisdiction back to the door of the lab-

ioratory. The House passed this bill 352 to 10 on; April 28.

Meanwhile in the Senate, Senator Hugh. Scott introduced S. 3059 on
March 8. It was identical to the original Poage bill before it was weakened
by the Agriculture Committee.

On March 25 and 28, the Senate Commerce Committee held hearings
on S. 2322, the Magnuson—Clark—Brewster bill, and S. 3059, the Scott bill.
Although the National Society for Medical Research had succeeded in.
having its bill introduced in the House of Representatives by Representa—
tives Ancher Nelsen, Donald Fraser, and Albert H. Quie, no Senator
had introduced this bill as the hearing began; but on March 25, Senator
Mondale put in a. bill identical to the NSMR House bills. Opponents of
S. 2322 and S. 3059 continued to argue that laboratories must not be
included in the bill. They referred often to the AAALAC (American As»
sociation for Accreditation of Laboratory Animal Care), a. group for
whose existence Dr. Visscher, President of the N SMR, took credit, which
would voluntarily inspect laboratories, ostensibly eliminating the need for
government intervention.

During the Easter Recess, the Commerce Committee staff prepared
a new version of S. 2322, removing the bill’s jurisdictionf over the treat-
ment of animals inside the laboratories. When Senator Mike Monroney
read the draft, he prepared an amendment restoring the laboratories to
the bill. From that time forward, the Monroney Amendment became the
center of the fight on laboratory animal legislation. In addition to the
pressures brought by organized science and medicine, the Humane Society
of the United States and the American Humane Association both opposed
the Monroney Amendment, too. They said they preferred the Rogers~

 




ment by Dr. Albert Heustis, Michigan Health, Commissioner, concerning
the practicality of the Michigan law licensing and regulating the treatment
of experimental animals in Michigan laboratories, and a letter from
Lord Brain in praise of the British Act, in which he states: “One of
these advantages is that it (the Act of 1876) imposes a definite responsib-
ility upon the individual experimenter to comply with explicit regulations
amongst the most important of which is the obligation to destroy an
animal suffering pain.”

Emily Leavitt

The AWI lost a valued worker, Emily Leavitt, who died at her home
in Vermont, where, fighting against illness, she sought to complete the
book she was working on under an AWI grant, “Animals and Their Legal
Rights.” Mrs. Leavitt, a librarian who had done the most thorough and
effective research on legislation affecting animals in this country, dis-
covered that the first anti-cruelty legislation was American, passed in
1641 in the Massachusetts Bay Colony. Prior to this discovery, it had
been generally assumed that Great Britain led the world in legislating
against cruelty to animals. Mrs. Leavitt’s work will be completed, as she
wished, by others; and as soon as publication is near, an announcement
will be made.

AWI Representatives Spoke at The Following:

Florida Federation of Humane Societies, annual meeting, Tampa, Florida,
September 24, 1965; Canadian Society for Animal Care, annual meeting, Ottawa,
Canada, October 14-16, 1965; Virginia Federation of Humane Societies, annual
meeting, Richmond, Virginia, October 17, 1965 ; New York State Humane As-
sociation, annual meeting, Bath, New York, October 30, 1965; Michigan Federa—
tion of Humane Societies, East Lansing, Michigan, November 6, 1966; Animal
Welfare Institute, annual meeting, Washington, D. C., November 20, 1965; Mary-
land Federation of Humane Societies, December 12, 1965; “The Open Mind,”
Eric Goldman television program, repeatedly broadcast from March 6, 1966, on;
Vic Caputo’s “Talk of Detroit,” Radio W.E.R.B., February 24, 1966, and
March 11, 1966; Sanctuary Sodality of the Shrine of the Most Blessed Sacra-
ment, annual meeting, Washington, D. C. April 6, 1966; Bob Kennedy television
show, Boston, Mass, May 13, 1966; Otsego County Society for the Prevention
of Cruelty to Animals, annual meeting, Cooperstown, New York, June 11, 1966.

 

Contributions to the Animal Welfare Institute are deductible in computing
income tax returns, and donations, large or small, are most gratefully accepted
for the general fund or for special purposes. The extension of the Institute’s

much-needed work depends upon such support.

 

 

 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

Advisory Committee
Dr. Lee R. Dice Dr. Joseph Wood Krutch David Ricardo Dr. F. Barbara Orlans

Officers

Christine Stevens, President 0 Alfred R. Glancy, Jr., Vice-President
Madeleine Bemelmans, secretary 0 Roger L. Stevens, Treasurer

 




SIXTEENTH ANNUAL REPORT

 

A N H M A It
JEXPRIEssuoNs

 

%
1

 

Cover of the new AWI publication, Animal Expressions,
A Photographic Footnote to Charles Darwin’s “Expression
of the Emotions in Man and Animals,”

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
P. O. Box 3492 Grand Central Station
New York, N.Y. 10017

 




SIXTEENTH ANNUAL REPORT
July 1, 1966 to June 30, 1967

I P. L. 89-544, the Laboratory Animal Welfare Act, the First Year

On August 24, 1966 humane care of research animals became law. ,
It was the ﬁrst action ever taken by the United States Congress to pro-
tect these animals. In signing the Laboratory Animal Welfare Act, Presi-
dent Johnson said, “As Dr. Schweitzer has reminded us: ‘The quality
of a culture is measured by its reverence for all life,’ Progress, particu—
larly in science and medicine, does require the use of animals for research ‘
and this bill does not interfere with that. But science and research do not
compel us to tolerate the kind of inhumanity which has been involved in
the careless and callous handling of animals in some of our laboratories. .
This bill will put an end to these abuses. At the. same time the bill does
not authorize any sort of interference with actual research or experimen-
tation. They just must go on. But I am sure that all of us are very glad
that the Congress has wisely seen ﬁt to make provision for decent and
humane standards in the procurement and handling of the animals that
are necessarily involved. I thank those of you who are here for this cere-
mony. I appreciate the efforts that you have made to make this event
possible. I have no doubt but with the passing of the years, the wisdom
of your action will be thoroughly demonstrated.” 4

The Animal Health Division of the Agricultural Research Service

. was assigned the task of enforcement. Composed of 788 veterinarians and

838 lay inspectors, the Division is experienced in control and eradication
of animal diseases.

Dr. Earl M. Jones was named Senior Staff Veterinarian in Charge
of Laboratory Animals. He heads a small staff at Hyattsville which works
in cooperation With the Federal Veterinarians in Charge in each state.

Plans were made by the Department for efficient enforcement of the
new law, and a request for a supplemental appropriation was submitted
in the amount of $1,650,000 in 1966. It soon became apparent that thC
House Subcommittee on Agricultural Appropriations under the chair-
manship of Congressman Jamie L. Whitten was unwilling to vote the
necessary funds for enforcement, though none of its members had pre-
viously expressed hostility.

. Following is a schedule of the actions of the Appropriations Com-
mittees in House and Senate:

Supplemental request by the United States Depart-
ment of Agriculture after signing of the law. Au-

gust, 1966 , $1,650,000.00
House Subcommittee on Agricultural Appropria-
tions recommended -0-

Senate Supplemental Appropriations Subcommit-

tee recommended for survey of dealers and

laboratories that would be licensed or registered

and for writing the regulations $ 800,000.00

 

 




 

Conference between the House and Senate '
Committee reduced the amount to $ 300,000.00

The law speciﬁcally required that dealers be licen-
sed by May 24th if they were to sell to laboratories
but the Department could not inspect because no
funds whatever had been appropriated for that
purpose. Congressman Whitten, who had opposed
and sought to reduce all proposals for funding, now
insisted that in order to prevent a halt in the ﬂow
of dogs to laboratories, the Department must
amend the regulations to allow dog dealers to cer-
tify themselves and to obtain licenses on their own
affidavits. At the second Senate Supplemental
hearings, Senator Monroney asked for $ 500,000.00

- U.S.D.A. representatives at the hearing re-
sponded to questions stating that so little time
was left till June 30th that they could use only $ 150,000.00

Senate approved $ 150,000.00

In Conference between House and Senate, Con-
gressman Whitten again fought hard against the
appropriation, and it was reduced to $ 25,000.00

This $25,000, designated for travel, was the first
money that could be used to do any inspection of
dog dealers by the Department of Agriculture.
Meantime. 139 dealers certified themselves. Their
names were published in. The Federal Register
June 23, 1967.

Budget request for Fiscal Year 1968 $1,500,000.00
Senate Subcommittee on Agricultural Appropria-
tions recommended . $1,200,000.00
House Subcommittee on Agricultural Appropria—
tions recommended $ 300,000.00*

Working under difficult conditions, the Department issued a notice
of Proposed Rule Making in The Federal Register, December, 1966. It
received more comments on these rules than on any others ever prOposed
— over 6,000. Most controversial issue was that on provision of exerc1se
for caged dOgs. Some scientists and all persons; assoclated w1th anlmal
protective work, urged that such requirements be 1ncluded, whereas
numerous members of the scientific establishment argued that exerc15e
Was unnecessary and emphasized by wire, letter and phone that there
was no scientific evidence to prove its need.

*October 9, 1967, The Senate-Honse Conference stated: “The appropriation pro—
vides for enforcement of the Laboratory Animal Welfare Act at a cost not.to
exceed $1,200,000. Enforcement work in the .ﬁeld is to be handled by ex1st1ng
trained personnel as far as possible and additional funds requ1red are to bdc: pro-
vided by transfer from lower priority work consxdered to be less essential. The

Actual appropriation was only $300,000.

 

 




 

When the final regulations were promulgated, February 24, 1967.
they concluded with a statement that “The Department proposes to pro-
vide for studies on environmental and behavioral factors influencing
the health, comfort and safety of animals being transported and main-
tained for research purposes, including the element. of exercise.” These
findings will determine a decision on final regulations on the subject.

Though the standards are incomplete and though they are minimum
standards, their promulgation has already had a most beneficial effect
on care and housing of animals both in dealers’ premises and in labora-
tories. Cage manufacturers have increased the size and improved con-
struction of their products to eliminate the kind of flooring that can
catch animals’ feet and, often, to include resting boards or perches. They
proudly advertise that the new equipment conforms with the law. A
number of dealers have completed major construction of kennels costing
as much as $11,000.

Rules of Procedure for prosecution of violators had not been com-
pleted by the Office of the General Counsel of the Department of Agri-
culture at the time this report was published, but inspections and collec-
tion of evidence by Department veterinarians and lay inspectors are
proceeding as rapidly and thoroughly as available funds allow. The
AWI submitted testimony in support of needed appropriations to both
regular House and Senate Agricultural Appropriations and Supple-
mental Appropriations Subcommittees. It has submitted evidence on the
value of exercise and companionship for animals to the Department to
assist it in its scientific appraisal of these matters. It has submitted photo-
graphs of transportation, handling and housing of research animals by
dealers and research facilities to the Department and reported on find-
ings made by the AWI Laboratory Animal Consultant.

Schweitzer Medal

Senator Warren Magnuson and Senator Mike Monroney were Sch-
weitzer Medallists for 1966 in recognition of their tremendous contribu-
tion to the welfare of research animals. Senator Magnuson is Chair-
man of the Senate Commerce Committee which reported out the bill
that became PL. 89-544, the Laboratory Animal Welfare Act. Senator
Monroney, a member of the Committee, was the author of the Mon—
roney Amendment to restore coverage of animals in laboatories to the
bill after this had been repeatedly removed by forces hostile to objective
enforcement of humane standards in the care and handling of these
animals.

Associate Justice of the Supreme Court, Abe Fortas, made the pre-
sentations of the medals. He characterized the Senators’ achievement
as “an act which ennobles the deer and raises our civilization to a higher
and better level. It is a tribute to the kind of law this is,” he continued,
“that Senator Magnuson and Senator Monroney were among its cham-
pions. Nothing could better assure that the law is good sense as well as
commendable idealism. For both of these Senators are pragmatic men
— and I think that history may well record that the law which they
championed proved to be not only a milestone in America’s spiritual
progress, but a boon to the quality of scientific work in which animals
are used.”




AWI Scientific Committee on Humane Standards

for Research Animals

A new committee, all of whose members have long been actively
interested in advancing the welfare of laboratory animals, was formed
this year. The AWI Scientific Committee is composed of physicians,
veterinarians, and research workers who have had broad experience
with animals under various circumstances. Marjorie Anchel, Ph.D.,
Bennett Derby, M.D., Nicholas Gimbel, M.D., Paul Kiernan, M.D.,
Samuel Peacock, M.D., Richard Pearce, D.V.M., and John Walsh,
M.D., are the members. They are concerned with the adoption of stand-
ards for care and housing of research animals by scientific institutions
and animal suppliers.

Publications

This was a record year for publications by the AWI. First, Ernest
Walker’s Studying Our Fellow Mammals, in preparation for more than
three years, was published. With 152 illustrations in its 172 pages, it
is an outstanding contribution to the better understanding of mammals,
both through scientific observation, and from the standpoint of the hu-
mane educator who would focus attention on the individual animal for
its own sake. Its publication, subsequent to Genera of Recent Mammals
of the World, the three-volume Walker classic published by the Johns
Hopkins Press, places it in the form of a sequel to these major reference
volumes and a commentary on them. Ernest VValker’s genius for com-
munication with animals is evident in Studying Oar Fellow Mammals.
The AWI offers single copies free to teachers. To others, it is available
at cost, $1.00.

The second major publication of the year was the new, revised edi-
tion of Comfortable Quarters for Laboratory Animals. The loose-leaf
form used since the first edition in 1955 was abandoned; and about half
of the contents is entirely new, emphasis being placed on photographs
of laboratory animal quarters, supplied by institutions which have out-
standingly good quarters for one or more species of animals. The
manual includes photographs and drawings under the followlng head-
ings: Primates, Dogs, Cats, Farm Animals, Rabbits, Gulnea Pigs,
Small Animals and Birds, and Miscellaneous Items. Particular emphaSIS
is placed on adequate space for all species of animals housed.

Just. before the end of the fiscal year, a completely new publication
was brought out by the AWI, Animal Expressions. Sub-titled A Photo-
graphic Footnote to Charles Darwin’s “Expression of the Emotions in
M an. and Animals,” it consists of expressive photographs taken by such
leading photographers as Stan Wayman of Life, whose photographs of
dogs in the premises of animal dealers for the Life‘story, “Concentra-
tion Camps for Dogs,” brought more letters to Life than any other
story ever run in the history of the magazine; Erica Anderson, whpse
books and films showing the work of Dr. Schweitzer at Lambarene
are so widely known and admired; Ernest Walker, whose. profusely
illustrated books have brought home the importance of the living animal
to biologists throughout the world; the National Geographlc Somet)’,
which generously assisted in obtaining photographs by Hugo van Law1ck
Of wild Chimpanzees observed by his wife, the former Jane Goodall;

 




 

and others, less widely known, but equally devoted to the welfare of
:animals: Marybeth Vaughn, Eugenia Whitnel, and workers for the
Japan Animal Welfare Society. All contributed their work to the book.

The evaluation of the photographs was made by Dr. Francis J.
Mulhern, Deputy Administrator of the Agricultural Research Service,
Dr. Michael Fox, author of Canine Behavior «and Canine Pediatrics,
from the Thudichum Psychiatric Research Institute, and Ernest Be-
langer, designer of the Ottawa system of care and housing of research
dogs. The AWI is deeply grateful to these experts as it is to those who
so generously provided the photographs, for making Animal Expressions
possible.

Animal Expnessio-ns is offered free, on request, to veterinarians
and to persons employed by research institutions in the management of
animal colonies or the care of animals. It is available to others at cost
price, 75¢.

Film

A 16 mm. sound film, seventeen minutes in length, entitled “Labo-
ratory Dogs,” was completed during the year and made available to
laboratories and others interested. The ﬁlm is documentary in nature,
showing the system in use, at the University of Ottawa, Faculty of
Medicine, under the supervision of Ernest Belanger, Animal House
Superintendent when the film was made. Emphasis is placed on the
large degree of freedom allowed to the dogs who are housed in compat-
ible groups in rooms supplied with wood shavings to rest on, and a
constant supply of dry food and water. Use of a long, outside roof run-
way is shown.

The film is available on free, short-term loan from the US. Public
Health Service, Audiovisual Facility, Atlanta, Georgia. It may be pur-
chased from the AWI for $50, the production of the film having been
underwritten by a generous contributor.

Mr. Belanger made a series of visits to scientific institutions and
groups in New York, Tennessee, Michigan, Maryland and the» District
of Columbia, answering questions after the showing of “Laboratory
Dogs.”

Laboratory Animal Consultant

Mrs. Robert Dyce, Laboratory Animal Consultant of the AWI, has
continued her visits to laboratory animal rooms, animal dealers’ pre-
mises and Trade Days where animals are sold or traded by dealers for
resale to scientific institutions.

A chance occurrence during a routine laboratory visit underlined the-

importance of the Laboratory Animal Welfare Act, PL. 89-544, the day
after it had gone into effect for animal dealers. A collie dog wearing its
license tag was noted by Mrs. Dyce as she walked past its cage at
Veterans Hospital in Ann Arbor. She called it to the attention of those
in charge and notified the Oakland County authorities who promptly
traced the dog’s owners who had been searching for their animal for
three months. Thunder had undergone experimental surgery; however,

 




4 .\4L “VH4 gg‘AA__—74_ ﬁ/‘_‘ 4
«.

he is now recovered and. living happily at home with his owners, the
James Shorters and their seven children. When the dog’s identity was
established, he was released promptly by the Veterans Administration
Hospital. An investigator for the United States Department of Agri-
culture obtained affidavits from all those concerned, but it was not pos-
sible to learn where the dog had been during the long period of his
absence from home. The hospital had had him for a few days only.
Thunder was sold to the hospital by the dog dealer, Edward Radzi-
lowsky, alias Rogers, who, when he returned to: the laboratory and
learned that the license tag had been observed by Mrs. Dyce, removed
the tag and discarded it. His own sworn testimony is the source of this
surprising information. Now that PL. 89-544 is in effect, all dogs
purchased by laboratories from licensed dealers must be identified and
their source made a matter of record.

On a return visit to the animal quarters of the University of Minne-
sota Medical School, Mrs. Dyce was authorized by the School to- ac-
company its veterinarian in making complete rounds of the dogs quarters
(capable of housing 1,400 dogs) and removing from their cages any
dogs too large to stand and lie normally. Photographs of some of these
dogs were also taken with the permission of the institution.

Information Reports

Each issue of the quarterly Information Report was distributed
to approximately 17,000 individuals and groups, including libraries,
institutions of learning, laboratories, veterinarians, humane societies,
members of the Federation of American Societies for Experimental
Biology, and members of the AWI.

Articles on subjects not noted above included “A Painless Method
of Branding Livestock,” developed by Dr. R. Keith Farrell; “A Study
of Procurement. of Research Dogs and Cats,” summarized from the
report of the Senate Fact Finding Committee on Public Health and
Safety of the State of California under the chairmanship of Senator
Walter B. Stiern, a veterinarian, who gave thorough study to the ques-
tion of state-wide mandatory legislation to send impounded animals to
laboratories, and decided against it; “N eurOphysiologist, Dog Breeder
Comments on Dog Housing,” by Dr. Samuel Peacock; several brief
reports on state legislation enacted to license animal dealers, register
laboratories, strengthen penalties for pet theft or to prohibit bullfights ;
a report on a federal bill introduced by Senator Joseph Tydmgsto
stop soreing of Tennesee Walking Horses; and editorials from The
New Y ovrk Times and The Christian Science Monitor, and a cartoon
from The San Jose M ercury N eyes, all urging adequate funding for
PL. 89-544, the Laboratory Animal Welfare Act.

Humane Education

A special project of providing humane education kits to schools in
the District of Columbia was conducted in coo-perat1on With the Wash-
ington Animal Rescue League this year.

Thousands of additional requests from educators throughout the
country for the educational manuals and other mater1als prov1ded free

 




to school teachers were received and filled. Most popular of these items
are: First Aid and Care of Small Animals, Humane Biology Projects,
Studying Our Fellow ll/Iammals, Good Kind Lion, Kittens and Cats,
You and Your Dog, Befriending Animals, and Abuse of Animals in
the Class Room and How it Can be Avoided.

 

Contributions to the Animal Welfare Institute are deductible in
computing income tax returns, and donations, large or small, are most
gratefully accepted for the general fund or for special purposes. The ex—
tension of the I nstitute’s much-needed work depends upon such support.

 

 

 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

Advisory Committee
Dr. Lee R. Dice Dr. Joseph Wood Krutch David Ricardo Dr. F. Barbara Orlans

Officers

Christine Stevens, President Alfred R. GlanCy, J11, Vice—President
Madeleine Bemelmans, Secretary Roger L. Stevens, Treasurer

Scientiﬁc Committee On Humane Standards For Research Animals

Dr. Marjorie Anchel Dr. Bennett Derby Dr. Nicholas Gimbel
Dr. Paul Kiernan Dr. Samuel Peacock
Dr. Richard G. Pearce Dr. John Walsh

 




SEVENTEENTH ANNUAL REPORT

 

ANIMAILS ANII III-IIIEIR

ILIEGAL RIGHTS

by Emily Stewart Leavitt and other authors

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

 

 

 

Cover of the new AWI book, Animals and Their Legal Rights.
Sir Edwin Landseer’s “Laying Down the Law” puts
expressive canine faces into a courtroom scene said to
represent real Victorians.

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
P. O. Box 3492, Grand Central Station
New York, NY. 10017

 




 

SEVENTEENTH ANNUAL REPORT
July 1, 1967 to June 30, 1968

Publications

Animals and Their Legal Rights, by Emily Stewart Leavitt and
other authors was completed and published this year, four years after
its conception. M'rs. Leavitt began work on it when she was Librarian
at Montclair State College, collecting material by correspondence with
State Law Librarians and by working at the Columbia Law Library
and the New York Public Library and going through AWI files. The
Moses Foundation stepped in at a critical point when Mrs. Leavitt
learned that she had only a short time left to live. Through the Founda-
tion’s generosity it was possible for her to devote full time to work on
the book which she did till her death. The Moses Foundation further
generously assisted with the cost of publication of the book on its
completion.

Divided into fourteen chapters and an appendix, numerous state
and federal laws are published in their entirety while analyses of
similar laws in some chapters provide the necessary information.
Chapter headings are: The Evolution of Anti-Cruelty Laws in the
United States; First Federal Law to Prevent Cruelty to Animals;
Humane Slaughter Laws; Laboratory Animal Welfare; Cruelty on the
High Seas, Importation of Wild Animals and Birds; Dogs; Cats;
Horses; Laws Regulating the Sale of Small Animals and Birds; Fight-
ing and Baiting; Trapping; Humane Education in the Public Schools;
Organizations for the Protection of Animals; Marine Mammals. Appen-
dix headings are: State Laws Regulating Transportation of Livestock;
Federal Humane Slaughter Act; Foreign Anti-Cruelty Laws and
Humane Slaughter Laws; Foreign Laboratory Animal Welfare Laws;
British Cruelty to Animals Act, 1876; French Decree Regulating Ex-
periments on Animals, 1968; Michigan Law Licensing Animal Dealers;
Laws on Hit and Run Drivers; Keeping Live Birds to be Shot At;
Easter Chick Laws, Ordinances; Massachusetts SPCA Rules Govern-
ing Horse and Ox Pulling Contests; Animal Health Division, US.
Department of Agriculture, Field Stations and Veterinarians in Charge;
State Law Libraries; Annotated Statutes of the States; Schweitzer
Medallists; Bibliography; Some Publications of the Animal Welfare
Institute.

The AWI is indebted to experts who contributed some of the
chapters to the book: the Animal Health Division of the US. Depart-
ment of Agriculture wrote the chapter on transportation of livestock,
entitled “First Federal Law to Prevent Cruelty to Animals.” The
Division is the enforcement agency for this law, and the Laboratory
Animal Welfare Act. Frederick A. Ulmer, Jr., Curator of Mammals
at the Philadelphia Zoological Gardens, wrote the chapter on importa-
tion of wild animals and birds. Pearl Twyne, President of the American
Horse Protection Society, wrote the chapter on horses, and Lewis
Sharpley, President of the Dog Writers Association of America, wrote
the chapter on dogs.

 




 

Animals and Their Legal Rights is available from the AWI at a
cost of one dollar, and contributions for placement of copies in libraries
continue to be gratefully received.*

Distribution of Publications

During the year, demand for AWI publications has continued to
grow. The entire printing of 5,000 copies of Animal Expressions was
exhausted by requests from veterinarians, biologists and others who
saw the manual with its 106 illustrations at AWI booth exhibits or
read about it. Veterinary Economics described it, and hundreds of
veterinarians wrote to obtain their free copy.

Approximately 5,000 copies of Comfortable Quarters for Labora-
tory Animals were requested by scientists, architects and veterinarians
during the year. Individual copies are sent free on request to qualified
people to assist them in remodelling or designing animal quarters in
a way that provides adequate space for the animals and comfortable,
pleasant surroundings for them and for those who care for them.

School teachers who learn of AWI publications through booth
exhibits at the National Association of Biology Teachers or the National
Science Teachers Association, or through listings such as Free and
Inexpensive Learning Materials have been requesting manuals, leaflets,
rules governing treatment of animals by high school biology students,
and other materials in ever increasing numbers. Single copies of AWI
manuals are provided free on request to any teacher who writes for
them for classroom use. During the year over 5,000 copies of Humane
Biology Projects (41 pp.), 3,500 copies of Studying Our Fellow Mam-
mals (172 pp.), and 5,000 copies of First Aid and Care of Small
Animals (4-6 pp.), were sent to teachers. All these manuals are pro-
fusely illustrated with photographs taken by Ernest P. Walker (author
of the last two mentioned), and others, and help meet the need for
humane science teaching materials so strongly felt by so many teachers.

The Statement on Animals in Secondary Schools, by Dr. W. W.
Armistead, Dean, College of Veterinary Medicine, Michigan State Uni-
versity, is often requested with these manuals, and its sound recom—
mendations have undoubtedly prevented many cruel and useless pro-
jects from being undertaken while encouraging sound humane and
scientific ones which do not harm animals.

The AWI also distributes a. variety of leaflets for use in the early
elementary grades, Good Kind Lion, by Fougasse being especially
popular for the development of humane attitudes among very young
children. You and Your Dog, Kittens and Cats (coloring books), and
Befriending Animals (a reprint from Childhood Education which sug-
gests humane educational methods in elementary schools) are among
others most frequently requested.

Two new leaflets were prepared during the year, one describing
Animal Expressions, the other describing the AWI film, “Laboratory
Dogs” (16 mm. sound, 17 minutes) which shows humane care of a

*As of October, 1968 over 5,000 public libraries in all parts of the United
States have received free copies, and the response has been enthusiastic.

 

 




 

group of experimental dogs without the use of cages. Four different
listings of material were prepared for elementary teachers, secondary
teachers, the general public, and veterinarians.

Meetings and Exhibits Attended by AWI Representatives

American Veterinar Medical Association. Annual meetinO‘ Dallas,
y by

Texas. July 9-13, 1967. (AWI booth exhibit)

American Association for Laboratory Animal Science. Annual meeting,
Washington, DC. October 2-6, 1967.

United States Livestock Sanitary Association. Annual meeting, Phoenix,
Arizona. October 16-20:, 1967.

Animal Welfare Institute. Annual meeting, Washington, DC. Novem-

ber 27, 1967.

National Association of Biology Teachers. Annual meeting, Anaheim,
California. February 28—March 2, 1968 (AVVI booth exhibit.
Paper presented by Dr. Barbara Orlans).

National Science Teachers Association. Annual meeting, Washington,
DC. March 28-April 2, 1968. (AWI booth exhibit)

Michigan Veterinary Medical Association. Annual meeting, Boyne
Mountain, Michigan. June 22-25, 1968. (AWI booth exhibit)

Schweitzer Medal

The 1967 Schweitzer Award was presented by Senator Spessard
Holland to Dr. F. J. Mulhern, Deputy Administrator for Regulatory
and Control of the Agricultural Research Service, US. Department
of Agriculture, and Dr. Earl M. Jones, Senior Staff Veterinarian,
Laboratory Animals of the Animal Health Division. In presenting the
medals, Senator Holland pointed to the pioneer work of the medallists
in enforcement of the Laboratory Animal Welfare Act, PL. 89—544,
and tied this achievement to their past work in USDA’s Animal Health
Division. “Those of us who are interested so deeply in humane objec-
tives toward animals for their own sake,” Senator Holland said, “real—
ize how frequently these objectives are coupled with economic reasons
for their legal enforcement. As to our two men—men that have per-
formed outstanding services in the two campaigns which I shall mention
——one the eradication of a terrible disease of animals, and the other,
eradication of a pest scourge of the greatest destructive importance,
I am glad that we are coupling our interest in humaneness for its own
sake with tremendous economic values that come from humaneness in
the treatment of animals which serve mankind.”

In response, Dr. Mulhern said, “This award signifies to me the
need to be consistent; that we cannot have different standards of
reverence for different species of animals. They must be equal or the
lower standard for one species will have its detrimental effect on the
other species. Empathy for all species is essential if we are interested
in making this a better world.” Speaking of enforcement of the Act,
he said, “Inhumane practices in the handling of these animals must

 




stop.” Concluding, he forecast that “there will come a time in the not
too distant future when all persons involved in his program will fully
appreciate the benefits to be derived by this Act. I predict that some
will wonder why this legislation was not passed sooner. In addition
to the progress made to date, we will see the inhumane practices elim—
inated, improved facilities for handling research animals, and also a
better research model from which to draw better conclusions and results.
If we can just keep in mind the example set by Dr. Schweitzer. . .”

Dr. George Mehren, Assistant Secretary of Agriculture said,
“For the Secretary, the Department at large, and for myself, I thank
you for the help you have given us in a. difficult but most important
task . . . I think I know your values and your purposes, and they are
our purposes. In the work that you are doing, we are with you without
reservation, without equivocation, and without qualification. The work
that you are doing must be done. Science will be the better for it. More
important, the quality of human life will also be the better.”

Laboratory Animal Welfare Act

AWI Laboratory Animal Consultant, Dorothy Dyce, continues
to find major improvements being made in the care and housing of
research animals due to enactment and enforcement of the Laboratory
Animal Welfare Act, PL. 89-544. Cramped cages observed year after
year in many laboratories despite intensive efforts by AWI representa-
tives to obtain changes, have now been replaced in accordance with
USDA regulations. Cats have resting boards. Dogs have space to
move about in, and, increasingly, exercise areas are being routinely
provided for them. Rabbits can stretch out naturally. Monkeys are no
longer forced to crouch in cages barely big enough to hold them.

Five hundred thirty-three (533) research facilities with approxi-
mately three times that number of inspection sites were registered by
USDA during the course of the year and inspected at least twice. Some
of the dealers previously licensed under the self-certification system
found they could not meet the standards and went out of business.
Others went into business with another licensed dealer. For these and
other «reasons 36 dealers gave up their licenses. At present there are
183 licensed dealers in 35 states and the District of Columbia. Some
of the dealers made investments of hundreds of thousands of dollars
in order to comply with the standards. The licensed dealers indicated
on their applications that they will handle over 239,000 dogs and 82,000
cats. Nineteen research facilities requested additional time in order to

comply with the standards.

The Mules

When campaigners for the Southern Christian Leadership Con-
ference started to drive north in mule-drawn wagons, a number of
complaints of cruelty to the mules were received by the AWI. We ad-
vised those who called to obtain veterinary inspection of the mules
as they proceeded and insist on proper treatment of the animals. How—
ever, when they arrived in Washington, many were in extremely bad
condition, and no provision had been made for their care and feeding.

 

 




 

 

The Arlington Animal Rescue League and the U.S. Park. Police pro-
vided temporary assistance, and Mrs. Paul Twyne, Pre31dent of the
League, ruled that several of the mules could not be used at all because
of the seriousness of their condition.

AWI volunteers arranged for the 24 remaining mules and two
horses to be transported to the Columbia Horse Center where an ex—
cellent pasture was rented. It had a stream running through It and
large trees for shade. The mules made rapid progress eatlng steadily,
the thinnest ones changing from near skeletons to comfortable-looking
animals. Veterinary treatment was obtained, and the ages of the animals
estimated. Many were apparently in their twenties or thirties.

Because of the expenses of renting the pasture, the mules were
moved to the farm of Mrs. Polk Guest who has generously allowed
all except those that were reclaimed by the S.C.L.C. for return to their
owners to remain there. Generous contributors helped to pay the cost
of veterinary care, transportation and pasture rental, but unpaid bills
still remain, and members interested in helping these mules who had
certainly suffered and who now are so greatly enjoying the rest and
good food, are invited to send contributions for the Mule Fund.

Information Reports

During the past year many more veterinarians, science teachers,
libraries and other individuals and institutions have begun to receive
the Information Reports issued quarterly by the Animal Welfare In—
stitute. Approximately 21,000 copies of each issue are now being dis-
tributed. Illustrations are being used more frequently and, to ensure
clarity of detail, white glossy paper has replaced the blue mat paper.

The new format was adopted with Information Report, Volume
17, Number 2 in which photographs were shown of a squirrel monkey
into whose head holes had been drilled for the placement of electrodes
by a high school youth. The experimental animals (a total of 25 had
been used by the boy whose “experiments” had gone on for four years,
from age 14 to 18) were kept in small cages without water on a cold
floor, though two monkeys kept for display purposes in his booth were
comfortably housed. He said he had done four different electrode im-
plants on one of the monkeys he had brought with him. This monkey
was moribund when AWI Laboratory Animal Consultant, Dorothy
Dyce succeeded in obtaining veterinary care for it. A necropsy per-
formed at Michigan State Veterinary College revealed that the monkey
was suffering from a purulent infection underneath the dental caulking
which covered the holes bored in its skull. The electrodes which the
would-be high school scientist had sought to implant missed their
mark. As stated in the Report of Laboratory Examination by Dr.
Kenneth Keahy, “The electrodes did not pass through the skull into
brain tissue. There were, however, small holes through which the
electrodes could have passed if embedded properly.” The boy used
a stereotaxic instrument holding the animal rigidly with steel bars
pressed into ears, mouth and the area immediately below the eyes.
The drug used to immobilize the monkey was Sernylan, described by

 

  

    

 




 

the youth as an anesthetic but not so considered by many better quali-
fied persons. "

In the same Information Report the most comprehensive survey
of science fairs yet undertaken was reported by Dr. Barbara Orlans,
a member of the AWI Scientific Committee. Dr. Orlans reported on
eleven fairs, nine of which she personally visited. Titles of projects
involving pain or death to vertebrate animals were listed, and per-
centages of biology projects were taken which indicate that untrained
youths are more prone to inflict pain or death on vertebrate animals
than are university-trained scientists who have specialized and become
knowledgeable in a particular field. Dr. Orlans’ figures indicate that
over 50,000 animals are hurt annually by high school students taking
part in science fairs. The public press is often the medium which leads
them to select their “scientific” activities, and the spectacular clearly
has strong appeal as shown by the selection.

Dr. Orlans demonstrates the fallacy of depending on an adult
supervision clause as guidelines issued by various scientific organiza-
tions have done in the past. The physical safety of the student is
involved in some cases, his emotional and moral safety in others.

As a pharmacologist and physiologist conducting animal experi-
ments at the National Institutes of Health until her duties as a mother
of two young sons caused her to retire, and as a licensee under the
British Act which regulates animal experiments, Dr. Orlans speaks
with a voice of authority and understanding on the subjects of high
school experiments. Her recommendation is for painless experiments
by students of that age and degree of training. The case she makes
for this view in Information Report, Volume 17, No. 2 is a. strong one.

In Information Report, Volume 16, No. 3 Dr. E. E. Saulmon,
Director of USDA’s Animal Health Division, discussed “Animals and
Animal Health.” Painful diseases of livestock have caused great eco-
nomic loss in the past, but the efficient regulatory work of the Division
has greatly reduced the suffering and waste. As Dr. Saulmon empha-
sized in his article, the aim of the Division is eradication of animal
diseases. The work of the Division in humane handling of animals in
transit by rail and by water is summarized in the article.

A report on the work of the Animal Health Division in England
during the Foot and Mouth outbreak there was reported in Information
Report Vol. 17, No. 1, and in the same report, articles on the activity
of the New York State Humane Association in support of humane
slaughter legislation, and on the Fountain Committee’s Report on the
National Institutes of Health and its failure in a number of cases to
deal responsibly with government funds.

Other articles on subjects not covered in this annual report include
a detailed description of a pre—slaughter humane handling device for
lambs, sheep and calves killed for the kosher market (Information
Report, Vol. 16, .No. 3), an article entitled “AWI Supports PL. 89—544,
the Laboratory Animal Welfare, Opposes javits-Rogers Repeal Bill,”
and reviews of Ernest P. Walker’s Studying Our Fellow Mammals.

 




Testimony at Hearings

Testimony was submitted on behalf of the Animal \Nelfare In-
stitute in support of increased appropriations for the enforcement of:
the Laboratory Animal Welfare Act, PL. 89—544, to the Subcommit—
tees on Agricultural Appropriations of both the US. House of Repre-
sentatives and Senate.1

When hearings were held on a bill to provide funds for a variety
of educational institutions relating to health but omitting veterinary
medical schools, the AW I requested at both House and Senate hearings
that veterinary schools be included. This important amendment was
made before enactment of the bill.

When the Endangered Species Bill came up for hearings before
the Senate Commerce Committee’s Subcommittee on Merchant Marine
and Fisheries, testimony on the urgent need for passage of the bill to
prevent cruelty to the vanishing species was submitted by the A\NI.3

1. Final action was detailed in a letter to Senator Spessard Holland from Acting
Secretary of Agriculture, John A. Schnittker, October 28, 1968 as follows:
“Our appropriation Act provides a specific appropriation of $307,000 for ad—
ministration of the Laboratory Animal Welfare Act this fiscal year. In addi—
tion, up to $600,000 to be obtained from other program activities of the
Agricultural Research Service is to be used for this work in accordance with
the report of the conferees on the 1969‘ appropriation bill. Although all of the
programs in the Agricultural Research Service are of high priority and it will
not be easy to obtain these additional funds, the Department of Agriculture
intends to enforce this Act in a first rate manner. In other words, we will do
the entire job and will find the funds to enable us to administer this Act
within the total amount of $900,000.”

. The Endangered Species Bill was favorably reported by the Senate Commerce
Committee but failed to be voted on by the Senate in the rush for adjournment.

 

Contributions to the Animal Welfare Institute are deductible in
computing income tax returns, and donations, large or small, are
most gratefully accepted for the general fund or far special purposes.
The extension of the Institute’s much—needed work depends upon
such support.

 

 

 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

Scientific Committee on Humane Standards for Research Animals

Marjorie Anchel, Ph.D. Paul Kiernan, M.D.
Bennett Derby, M.D. Samuel Peacock, M.D.

F. Barbara Orlans, Ph.D. Richard G. Pearce, D.V.M.
Nicholas Gimbel, M.D. John Walsh, M.D.

International Committee

Major C. W. Hume, O.B.E., M.C., B.Sc., M.I. Biol.—-United Kingdom
Sydney Jennings, M.R.C.V.S., D.V.A.—M~exico
David Ricardo—Canada
P. Rousselet-Blanc, D.V.—France
N. E. Wernberg—Denmark
Officers
Christine Stevens, President Alfred R. Glancy, Jr., Vice—President
Madeleine Bemelmans, Secretary Roger L. Stevens, Treasurer
Dorothy Dyce, Laboratory Animal Consultant
Barbara Gould, Publications Secretary

 




EIGHTEENTH ANNUAL REPORT

©Tcsps
Illustration for the front—page article on Endangered Species Legislation which
appeared in The Christian Science Monitor, February 20, 1969.

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
.0. Box 3492
Grand Central Station
New York, N. Y. 1001

 




 

 

 

 




 

 

 

EIGHTEENTH ANNUAL REPORT
ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
July 1, 1968 to June 30, 1969

Endangered Species

Hearings on Endangered Species bills were held February 19th and 20th
before the Subcommittee on Fisheries and Wildlife Conservation of the House
Merchant Marine and Fisheries Committee, by Congressman John Dingell.

Senate hearings followed May 14th and 15th before the Energy, Natural
Resources and Environment Subcommittee of the Senate Commerce Com—
mittee chaired by Senator Philip Hart.

The House of Representatives passed by unanimous consent a bill, HR.
11363, which had been co—sponsored by every member of the Subcommittee
that heard the testimony.

AWI testimony for the legislation was presented at both hearings, and
the AW I participated in meetings with conservation groups, leather and
fur trade organizations, and the associated AFL—CIO unions, which took
place between the 90th and 9lst Congressional sessions to discuss differences
and prevent opposition to the needed legislation. These meetings, organized
by Arnold Mayer, the union’s Washington representative, resulted in a major
change in attitude by the fur and leather trade, and the union which opposed
Senate passage of the bill in the 90th Congress, supported the legislation in
the 9lst Congress.

Published Comment on Animal Experiments by School Boys and Girls

The October, 1968 issue of The Science Teacher carried an article by
Dr. F. Barbara Orlans entitled “The Boundaries of the Use of Animals in
High School Biology.” The article was a product of study extending over
a period of more than five years. Dr. Orlans is a member of the AWI Com—
mittee on Humane Standards for Research Animals.

The work of Dr. Orlans and of Mrs. Robert Dyce, AWI Laboratory
Animal Consultant, in this field was also noted in John Hillaby’s article,
“Sanctified Torture,” in the British scientific journal, The New Scientist,

January 9, 1969.

On May 10, 1969, the New Y 07/13 Times editorialized under the title,
“Prizes for Torture,” against what it characterized as “this unhealthy fad,”
noting that “science fairs at the local, state and national level often award
prizes to students whose only real achievement has been the deliberate or
inadvertent torture of animals.”

 




 

Reprints of the Orlans and Hillaby articles and The N ew York Times
editorial are available free on request from the AW 1. Excerpts from Dr.
Orlans’ article appeared in Veterinary News, the journal of the New York
State Veterinary Medical Society.

Publications

The fourth edition of Basic Care of Experimental Animals, a manual
provided free on request to scientific institutions by the AW 1 for the past
15 years, was produced this year with the aid of experts consulted by the
AWI. 5,543 copies were distributed this year. The largest new section is
that on anesthesia, analgesia, and euthanasia prepared by Dr. Harry Rowsell
and published with the kind permission of the Canadian Council on Animal
Care for which it was assembled. The Animal Health Division of the United
States Department of Agriculture examined the manuscript in the light of
the regulations which they administer under the provisions of PL. 89-544,

the Laboratory Animal Welfare Act, to ensure that nothing in the manual

is contrary to these requirements.

Mr. Ernest Bélanger whose important contributions to the care and
housing of research animals was shown in the AWI film, “Laboratory Dogs,”
made numerous suggestions for additions to the new edition of Basic Care
of Experimental Animals. Mr. Ernest Gregory, longtime Secretary—Treasurer
of the Canadian Society for Animal Care, made further additions based on
his day—to—day experience in animal colony management.

The size of the manual has been increased from 68 to 78 pages. It is
being used widely in the training of animal technicians.

The first edition of Animals and Their Legal Rights, published in 1968
with 10,000 copies, was almost completely exhausted before the end of the
year covered in this report, and revision was underway to include new laws.
5,680 public libraries received free copies during the year, and law libraries
of universities have requested free copies in many instances. 2,865 copies
were sent free to humane societies or sold at cost to others. Provision of
free copies to law enforcement agencies is planned when the new edition is
available.

A one—page circular giving five Reasons Why Animal Experiments by
High School Students Should Be Painless was written by Dr. Orlans
and published this year in conjunction with the Rules Governing Treatment
of Animals by High School Biology Students which the A\VI has been
distributing for the past decade. 6,000 copies were distributed during the year.

A continuous flow of the AWI manuals that are free to school teachers
has continued throughout the year. Listings of these materials was carried
by the Catalog of Free Teaching Materials, Free and Inexpensive Learning
illaterials, Educators Index of Free Materials, Elementary Teachers Guide
to Free Cnrricnlnm Materials, Selected Free Materials for Classroom Teach—

 

A .“

We.

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

ers, Free and Inexpensive Educational Aids, and the National Association
of Biology Teachers’ News and Views. Teachers took AWI publications
personally when they Visited the Institute’s booth exhibit at the National
Science Teachers’ Association in Dallas and the Philadelphia Science Teach—
ers’ Association in Philadelphia.

AW 1 publications on the care of laboratory animals were distributed at
meetings of the American Animal Hospital Association, International Com—
mittee on Laboratory Animals, American Veterinary Medical Association,
Delaware Valley Branch of the American Association for Laboratory Ani—
mal Science, and the Western States Veterinary Conference, as well as
through the mail. These included 3,152 copies of “Comfortable Quarters
for Laboratory Animals,” 103—page collection of floor plans, construction
details and equipment; 3,461 copies of “Animal Expressions,” whose 106
photographs by leading photographers help interpret the feelings of animals;
89 copies of “The Principles of Humane Experimental Technique,” 238—
page book by W.M.S. Russell and R.L. Burch, and 160 copies of “An In-
troduction to the Anesthesia of Laboratory Animals,” by Phillis Croft, the
two last-named, sold at cost price.

AVVI publications or films were listed by Veterinary Economics, Labora-
tory Animals Centre Newsletter, The Journal of the American Veterinary
Association and Texas Hospitals.

Following are statistics on the distribution of AWI materials for ele-
mentary and secondary schools for the year:

Manuals

4,224 copies of the 48-page illustrated manual, “Humane Biology Projects.”

4,773 copies of the 46—page illustrated manual, “First Aid and Care of Small
Animals,” by Ernest P. Walker.

2283 copies of the l72—page illustrated book, “Studying Our Fellow Mam-
mals,” by Ernest P. Walker.

Reprints and Statements

10,000 copies of “Sanctified Torture,” by John Hillaby, reprinted from The
New Scientist, 9 January, 1969.

7,000 copies of “The Boundaries of Use of Animals in High School Biology,”

by F. Barbara Orlans, reprinted from The Science Teacher, Oct, 1968.

2,000 copies of “Statement on Animals in Secondary Schools,” by Dr. W. W.
Armistead, Dean, College of Veterinary Medicine, Michigan State
University.

1,050 copies of “The Abuse of Animals in the Classroom and How It Can
Be Avoided,” reprinted from American Biology Teacher.

 

 




 

1,000 copies of “A Question of Value,” reprinted from The Ladies Home
Journal.

1,500 copies of “Befriending Animals,” reprinted from Childhood Education.

Leaflets

10,000 copies of “Good Kind Lion” by Fougasse, published by the Universi-
ties Federation for Animal Welfare.

2,300 copies of “You and Your Dog,” 16-page coloring booklet for children.
4,500 copies of “Kittens and Cats,” 16-page coloring booklet for children.

Other materials distributed included 400 copies of “Toward the Ideal in
an Animal Shelter,” reprinted from Gaines Dog Research Progress, 2,500
leaflets describing AWI manuals, 325 animal care leaflets, 275 manufac-
turers’ leaflets on humane slaughter equipment, 75 copies of the Council.
of State Government’s Uniform Humane Slaughter Bill, and 152 reprints
and leaflets published by the Universities Federation for Animal Welfare
concerning laboratory animals. Twenty copies of Fougasse’ anthology of
poems, “The Neighbors,” were sold at cost.

Meetings and Exhibits Attended by AWI Representatives

>“American Veterinary Medical Association. Annual meeting, Boston, Massa-
chusetts, July 21—25, 1968.

TDelaware Valley Branch of the American Association for Laboratory Ani-
mal Science. Regular meeting, Philadelphia, September 11, 1968.

United States Livestock Sanitary Association, Annual convention, New
Orleans, Louisiana, Animal Welfare Committee meeting, October 7, 1968.

American Association for Laboratory Animal Science, Annual meeting. Las

Vegas, Nevada, October 21—25, 1968.
Animal Welfare Institute. Annual meeting. Washington, D.C., Dec. 10, 1968.

United States Animal Health Association Animal Welfare Committee meet—
ing, O’Hare, Chicago, Illinois, December 18, 1968.

TWestern States Veterinary Conference of the Intermountain Veterinary
Association, Annual meeting, Las Vegas, Nevada, January 19—25, 1969‘.

National Capital Area Branch, American Association for Laboratory Animal
Science, Symposium, Washington, D.C., January 21, 1969. Dr. Bennett
Derby spoke.

T1830 Club meeting. Washington, D.C., February 23, 1969.

‘i‘Pharmacology Department, Cornell University Medical School, New YOfk
City. Symposium, March 6, 1969.




 

>"National Science Teachers Association. Annual meeting, Dallas, Texas,

March 21—25, 1969.

*American Animal Hospital Association. Annual convention, Washington,

DC, April 8-11, 1969.

>“International Committee on Laboratory Animals. Symposium, Washington,

DC, April 8—11, 1969.

International Society for Protection of Animals. Annual meeting. American
Humane Association. Regional meeting, Washington, D.C., April 22-23, 1969.

TRegional Training Course, Animal Health Division, United States Depart-
ment of Agriculture, Excelsior Springs, Missouri, May 6—9, 1969.

International Science Fair, Fort Worth, Texas, May 6-9, 1969.

TVirginia Federation of Humane Societies. Annual meeting. Richmond,
Virginia, May 18, 1969. Dr. Orlans spoke.

Schweitzer Medal

The 1968 Schweitzer Medal was presented to Dr. John F. Quinn, State
Veterinarian of Michigan, by Mr. Jack Howard, President of the Scripps—
Howard Newspapers and Scripps-Howard Broadcasting Company. The
medal was awarded in recognition of the practical advancement of animal
welfare in the enforcement of Michigan laws protecting meat animals and
research animals, and his Wisdom in creating the first standing Committee
on Animal Welfare of the United States Animal Health Association when
he served as the Association’s president in its 72nd year.

In presenting the medal, Mr. Howard said, “I don’t believe we will ever
achieve our goals in human welfare without achieving our goals in animal
welfare.”

Dr. Quinn responded by emphasizing that, though he gives them great
credit, the work of the animal welfare societies is not enough, and that
everyone connected with animals “must be encouraged to take part in a con-
centrated effort to see that all animals receive decent treatment.” This broad-
ening of the effort to prevent mistreatment of animals is essential to a gen-

eral advancement of animal welfare.

Advancement of the Welfare of Research Animals by
the United States Department of Agriculture
A steady improvement in the lot of research animals covered by Public

Law 89—544 has continued as the US. Department of Agriculture’s Animal
Health Division veterinarians bring about compliance With the law’s humane

 

>"Indicates AWI booth exhibit. ,
TIndicates paper presented at meeting by AWI Pr651dent-

 




 

requirements. Dogs, cats, primates, rabbits, hamsters and guinea pigs in
dealers’ premises, scientific institutions, and in transit between them must
be given adequate veterinary care, and animal housing must meet minimum
standards set by U.S.D.A.

Listing of registered research facilities was completed and published in
The Federal Register, August 31, 1969. A total of 533 facilities with ap—
proximately l,50-O inspection sites were listed.

On December 22, 1968 the license of one of the largest laboratory ani-
mal dealers in the United States, Dierolf Farms, Inc., was suspended for
14 days after the firm was charged with shipping dogs and cats without
proper identification in crates that were not easily accessible for emergency
removal of animals, that were not large enough for the animals, and that
had no intervening floors to prevent animals from contaminating other ani—
mals on lower levels, and with selling cats that had not been held for the
required five days.

U.S.D.A. issued a cease and desist order prohibiting Dierolf Farms
from continuing the practices listed. It is estimated that the business loss
incurred during the period of suspension amounted to several thousand dollars.

By July, 1969, nineteen cases were pending under PL. 89—544, to en—
force the provisions of the Act in cases where compliance could not be ob-
tained by less stringent means.

During the spring and summer of 1969 regional training courses were
held by U.S.D.A.’s Animal Health Division for its personnel who are active
in enforcement of the Laboratory Animal Welfare Act. Workshops at which
veterinarians and lay inspectors from the area considered the best means
of dealing with the many problems of enforcement were lively. The active
discussions showed the high degree of interest animating Animal Health
Division personnel to do a first-rate job.

In each of the four regions, representatives of an animal welfare organ—
ization, a research facility, and an animal dealer were invited to talk and
answer questions. Instruction in the preparation of cases for legal action
was provided by the Laboratory Animals staff of the Animal Health Division.

This year, the Veterans Administration contracted with U.S.D.A.’s
Animal Health Division to inspect all of its animal laboratories and areas
where the animals are housed. Under P.L. 89—544, the various agencies of
the federal government which use research animals are authorized to maintain
the standards promulgated by the Secretary of Agriculture. The Veterans
Administration decided to make use of the expertise of the U.S.D.A. veteri—
narians and requested them to inspect all research animals whether or not
under experimentation and whether or not included in the groups of animals
specified in PL. 89-544.

 

 




 

 

 

Scientific Committee on Humane Standards for Research Animals

The Committee has given consideration to projects proposed to the AW I
to advance laboratory animal welfare, and has prepared a statement for dis-
tribution to the members of the American Zoological Society concerning ani-
mals in high school biology teaching and science fairs. The statement is to
be issued in the autumn of 1969 together with reprints of articles on the
subject.

International Committee

A new AVVI committee was formed this November which includes
members from six different countries. Major C. W. Hume, of London, Eng-
land, Founder of the Universities Federation for Animal Welfare; Dr.
Sydney Jennings of Mexico City, Mexico, a professor of veterinary medicine
who is currently working with the Food and Agriculture Organization;
David Ricardo of Vancouver, Canada, a founding member of the AW I
Advisory Committee; Dr. Pierre Rousselet-Blanc of Paris, France, Vice—
President of the Brigade de Défence des Animaux; NE. VVernberg, of
Copenhagen, Denmark, head of the firm of Consulting Engineers and Archi-
tects for the Food Production Industry which has developed and promoted
a large variety of carbon dioxide anesthetizing equipment for meat animals
before slaughter; and Dr. T. G. Antikatzides of Athens, Greece, who joined
the committee in the spring of 1969. He is a veterinary consultant of the
Greek Animal Welfare Fund and founder of the new Greek Society on
Laboratory Animals.

The AWI International Committee represents a step toward formal
recognition and expansion of the work which the AWI has taken part in
from its earliest years through the advice it has obtained from knowledgeable
humanitarians and experts in different countries, and through distribution

of AWI publications on a worldwide basis.

Laboratory Animal Consultant

For the seventh consecutive year, AWI Laboratory Animal Consultant,
Dorothy Dyce, has visited the animal quarters of scientific institutions in
different parts of the country, attended conventions and conferences re-
lating to these animals, and assisted institutions with advice and informa—
tion on good care and treatment of their charges.

This year, Mrs. Dyce gave considerable attention, too, to science fairs
and high school biology teaching, in a continuing effort to prevent cruel
Experiments by untrained youths. She visited the 1969 International Science
Fair in Dallas, accompanied by Miss Marybeth Vaughn, a gifted photographer,
dedicated to the welfare of animals, who photographed numerous exhibits
to document the nature and extent of teenage projects that cause pain or

 




 

fear to animals. Some of these photographs were published in Information
Report Vol. 18, No. 2 together with photographs from the Ingham County
Science Fair showing a sixth grade girl who won a Certificate of Merit as
a brain surgeon.

Model State Law to Regulate Roadside Zoos

The United States Department of Interior, after extensive consulta-
tion with animal welfare and zoological groups during the year, drafted a
model bill and regulations which were submitted to the Council of State
Governments for consideration at its annual May meeting in \Vashington,
D.C. Last minute withdrawal of the Department’s support caused the matter
to be tabled by the Council. However", a formal request by the Society for
Animal Protective Legislation to reinstate consideration of the proposal
with appropriate amendments was made at the division meeting where the
bill would have been discussed. It is hoped that favorable action will be taken
by the Council of State Governments in May, 1970 so that a bill will be
available to state legislatures to license roadside zoos and require decent
standards in the care, feeding and housing of animals.

To give an example of the extreme neglect and abuse of animals in
some of these establishments, a quotation from a letter of complaints sent
to the AWI this March by a professional zoologist follows: “parrots clinging
to wire for lack of perches . . . a male baboon, his face so badly flea- or lice-
bitten he cannot see. When water was present, it was foul. No food remains
were present. Virtually all animals were lying in their own waste matter.”
This quotation appeared in Robert Gannon’s “The Inhumane Traffic in
Exotic Pets” in The Readers Digest, also.

AWI Laboratory Animal Consultant, Mrs. Dyce, inspected and found
that similar conditions had been in existence over an extended period of
time. Only with great difficulty and intensive effort was it possible to achieve
disposal of the animals by sale or euthanasia. Conditions such as these should
never be allowed to develop. Adequate regulation of roadside zoos is badly
needed.

Information Reports

21,000 copies of the AW I Information Report were issued quarterly.
In addition to the subjects noted in the foregoing, there were articles on
the use of tranquilizer tabs to prevent the extreme pain and fear inflicted
by steel leg—hold traps (Vol. 17, No. 4); a move to end calf castration as
reported in The Progressive Farmer in an article by the editor, Mr. C. G.
Scruggs (Vol. 18, No. 1) ; mistreatment of experimental animals in Japanese
laboratories, as reported by Dr. Anthony Carding (Vol. 18, No. 1); the
establishment of a wild horse range by Secretary of the Interior, Stuart Udall
(Vol. 17, No. 3); the proposal for a Rachel Carson Memorial in an article

 

 

 




 

 

 

by Ann Cottrell Free (Vol. 18, No. 2); and the tenth anniversary of the
Federal Humane Slaughter Act (Vol. 17, No. 3).

The Information Reports are sent without charge to all members of
the Federation of American Societies for Experimental Biology, all Deans
of Medical and Veterinary Medical Schools, all members of the AWI, all
humane societies, and to several thousand individual veterinarians, teachers,
scientists, administrators and librarians who have asked to receive them.

Ernest P. Walker

The movement for animal protection and conservation of nature lost
a great friend when Ernest P. Walker died this February. Author of two
of the AWI’s major publications, Studying Om Fellow Mammals and First
Aid and C are of Small Animals, and a contributor to Humane Biology
Projects, Mr. Walker was in process of planning “Be Kind to the Earth,”
a project involving films, film strips and publications which he hoped to see
distributed on a broad scale with the aid of foundation financing. His death
brought an end to these plans as such, but the AWI will continue to. dis-
tribute his work and to draw upon the photographs and written materials
which he generously donated to the Institute to carry out the purposes he
had in mind insofar as available finances permit.

 

Contributions to the Animal Welfare Institute are deductible in computing
income tax returns, and donations, large or small, are most gratefully accepted
for the general fund or for special purposes. The extension of the Institute’s
much-needed work depends upon such support.

 

 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

Scientific Committee on Humane Standards for Research Animals
Marjorie Anchel, Ph.D. - Bennett Derby, M.D. - F. Barbara Orlans, Ph.D.
Paul Kiernan, M.D. - Samuel Peacock, M.D. - Richard G. Pearce, D.V.M.

John Walsh, M.D.

International Committee

Major C. W. Hume, O.B.E., M.C., B.Sc., M.I. Biol.—United Kingdom

T. G. Antikatzides, D.V.M.—Greece - P. Rousselet-Blanc, D.V.—-France
Sydney Jennings, M.R.C.V.S., D.V.A.—Mexico - David Ricardo—Canada
' N. E. Wernberg—Denmark

Officers

Christine Stevens, President — Alfred R. Glancy, J r., Vice-President
Madeleine Bemelmans, Secretary - Roger L. Stevens, Treasurer
Dorothy Dyce, Laboratory Animal Consultant — Barbara Gould, Publications Secretary

 




 




NINETEENTH ANNUAL REPORT

AWI booth at the 1970 convention of the American Veterinary Medical
Association. Photos on exhibit are by Stan Wayman.

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
P.O. Box 3492
Grand Central Station
New York, N. Y. 10017

 




 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

NINETEENTH ANNUAL REPORT
ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

July 1, 1969 to June 30, 1970

Westinghouse Eradicates Cruelty at Science Talent Search

There will be no more suffering inflicted on animals by high school
students seeking the big prizes offe1ed annually by the Westinghouse Electiic
CorpOIation for science projects. This year’s winners in biology ($4, 000 and
$6, 000 both studied bacteria. The Science Talent Search exhibit was com-
pletely humane for the first time since the Animal Welfare Institute has been
seeking to achieve this aim.

Dr. F. Barbara Orlans of the Animal Welfare Institute Scientific Com-
mittee has visited. and reported on the Science Talent Search over a period
of years. In 1969 her efforts to discourage cruel projects received powerful
impetus from a series of hard-hitting columns by Bob Cromie in the Chicago
Tribmze. “The Westinghouse Electric Corporation may consider the blinding
of five house sparrows for use in experiments by a teen-age high school girl
worthy of an award in its Science Talent Search contest. I consider it out-
rageous and a horror,” he said in his first column. Before the next annual
Science Talent Search, the decision had been made by Science Service and
the Westinghouse Electric CorpOIation to eliminate such projects. The pOIicy
has been established for all future years as well.

Every science fair should emulate this fine example. Unfortunately, the
1970 International Science Fair held in Baltimore showed no improvement
over previous years. Still another young boy showed an exhibit ofhis implanta-
tion of electrodes in the brains of squirrel monkeys and rats.

Laboratory Animal Consultant

During the past year, Mrs. Dyce, Animal Welfare Institute Laboratory
Animal Consultant continued her visits to laboratories and increased visits to
the premises of dealers in primates and other wildlife, to airports where wildlife
is being received in great numbers, and to the zoos and, pet shops, as well
as laboratories, to which these animals are being sold. Many ghastly abuses
have been found in areas not now covered by the Federal Laboratory Animal
\v’\/'elfa1‘e Act and publicity was focussed upon them.

In some areas which are not inspected by veterinarians from the US.
Department of Agriculture, even though these laboratories are required to
adhere to the standards, Mrs. Dyce has found substandard conditions. For
example, at the National Institute of Health, she found a considerable number
of primates in cages too small to permit the “normal postural adjustment”
required by Department of Agriculture standards. A letter to the Secretary

 




of the Department of Health, Education and Welfare brought compliance. A.
similar situation was found at the Naval Hospital in Bethesda, and, when
brought to the attention of the Secretary of the Navy, the situation was cor-
rected. Under the terms of the Laboratory Animal Welfare Act, government
agencies must comply with the standards, but they are expected to do their
own inspections. It would appear that better systems should be instituted by
HEW and Defense to avoid further violations.

Other inspections made by Mrs. Dyce which resulted in major help for
animals included Methodist Hospital in Indianapolis which had claimed it did
not have to register under PL. 89—544, the Laboratory Animal Welfare Act.
As a result, it was not inspected by USDA veterinarians. Mrs. Dyce’s inspec-
tion revealed filthy and grossly overheated conditions, and her reports to USDA
and the Department’s subsequent investigations proved that the laboratory
was now purchasing dogs from an interstate dog dealer, and so was required
to register. All animals were removed from the improper quarters.

In efforts to prevent cruel experiments and classroom activities by high
school students, Mrs. Dyce has worked with Dr. Lee Morgan who enlisted
the cooperation of the Michigan Veterinary Medical Association after his
daughter and her classmates were asked to give hypodermic injections to
baby chicks and break their necks to kill them as part of a required classroom
exercise. Dr. Morgan prepared a survey aimed at learning the extent of mis—
treatment of animals in high school biology projects in other parts of the
country. Referring to experiments in which the animal is harmed, the survey
quotes the MVMA in part as follows: “This experimentation on live animals
by students untrained in the basic medical sciences, without previous experi-
ence in handling laboratory animals, does nothing other than cause extreme
stress in the animals and revulsion in sensitive students. The lack of previous
basic training would precludeyainy valid observations of scientific value ac—
cruing from the experiments.”

Publications

The second edition of Animals and. Their Legal Rights, the Animal Wel-
fare Institute’s comprehensive survey of laws protecting animals in the United
States was published this year, following revision of the 1968 edition to in-
clude new legislation. The 227—page paperback, written by Emily Stewart
Leavitt and other authors, is the only existing up-to-date reference book on
the subject. The same low price of one dollar has been kept for the new
edition to enable all who need the information to obtain it.

Articles for journals read by the teaching profession were written by two
Animal Welfare Institute representatives this year, “Attitudes Toward Ani-
mals,” by Christine Stevens, was the lead article in the Februarv 1970 issue
of The American Biology Teacher, and on April sixth, Dr. F. Barbara Orlans"
‘iew article, “Painless Animal Experimentation,” was published in Scholastic

Teacher. Reprints of both articles are available from the Animal Welfare
Institute.

 

 

 

 

 




 

/ “7—4; A 2

 

 

A statement from the entire Scientiﬁc Committee of the Animal Welfare
Institute was issued to biologists in the fall of 1969 in an effort to curb cruel
high school biology experiments. “It is indefensible to hurt or kill animals
in the name of scientiﬁc inquiry when no knowledge or skill contributing to
human or animal welfare or safety is gained thereby. Furthermore, this type
of exercise can damage the young student’s emotional development, teaching
him to rationalize and condone the unjustified infliction of pain; it can blunt
his intellectual development by giving a false impression of the meaning of
scientific research,” the Committee stated in part. “If you receive requests
for advice, drugs, equipment or animals for high school student projects, we
urge that you use your influence to prevent projects which may cause pain
or fear.” The statement was signed by Marjorie Anchel, Ph.D., Lee R. Dice,
Ph.d., Bennett Derby, M.D., F. Barbara Orlans, Ph.D., Paul Kiernan, M.D.,
Samuel Peacock, M.D., Richard G. Pearce, D.V.M., and John Walsh, M.D.

In order to keep “The Principles of Humane Experimental Technique”
by W.M.S. Russell and R-L. Burch in print, the Animal Welfare Institute
purchased the remaining unbound sheets from the publisher, Methuen and
Co., Ltd, and had them bound in paperback in the United States. The
book is the only comprehensive study made to date on methods of replace—
ment of animals by other research methods such as use of tissue culture and
microorganisms; reduction of numbers of animals used through control of
the environment, the phenotype, and other means; and refinement of experi-
mental techniques to avoid procedures that cause pain or fear. The book is
available from the Animal Welfare Institute at a cost of $5.00.

A new listing of educational materials available from the Animal Wel-
fare Institute was prepared during the year and is available on request.

Following are statistics on the distribution Iof these materials for the year:

AWI publications on the care of laboratory animals were distributed at
the convention of the American Veterinary Medical Association, the meeting
of the Metropolitan Branch of the American Association for Laboratory Ani-
mal Science in December, and a regional training course of the Animal Health
Division, US. Department of Agriculture as well as by mail. These included
approximately 1,000 copies of “Comfortable Quarters for Laboratory Ani-
mals,” 103-page collection of floor plans, construction details and equipment,
1.,000 copies of “Animal Expressions,” whose 106 photographs by leading
photographers help interpret the feelings of animals; 2,000 copies of “Basic
Care of Experimental Animals,” the 78—page manual for animal caretakers;
56 copies of “The Principles of Humane Experimental Technique,” by
Russell and Burch, and about 1,000 copies of “Animals and Their Legal
Rights,” the last two sold at cost price.

Approximately 3,500 copies of the 48—page illustrated manual, “Humane
Biology Projects,” “4,000 c0pies of a 46-page illustrated. manual, “First Aid
and Care of Small Animals,” 2,500 copies of the l72—page illustrated book,
“Studying Our Fellow Mammals,” by Ernest P. Walker were distributed in
schools during the year. In addition, the following reprints and statements

 




 

were provided free on request: approximately 4,500 copies of “Sanctified
Torture,” by John Hillaby, reprinted from The N ew Scientist, 9 January,
1969; 1,400 copies of “The Boundaries of Use of Animals in High School
Biology,” by F. Barbara Orlans, reprinted from The Science Teacher, Oct._,
1968; 2,700 copies of “Statement on Animals in Secondary Schools,” by Dr.
W. W. Armistead, Dean, College of Veterinary Medicine, Michigan State
University; 3,900 Rules Governing Treatment of Animals by High School
Biology Students, and. Reasons why Animal Experiments by High School
Students Should be Painless; 200 copies of “Painless Animal Experimenta-
tion,” from Scholastic Magazine noted above 5,200 copies of “Attitudes
Toward Animals,” from The American Biology Teacher, also noted above,
and 1,300 copies of “Befriending Animals,” reprinted from Childhood Edu-
cation, and some 25,000 assorted educational leaflets.

Meetings and Exhibits Attended by AWI Representatives

>“American Veterinary Medical Association, Annual meeting, Minneapolis,
Minnesota, July 13-17, 1969.

New York State Humane Association, Annual Meeting, Albany, N.Y.,
October 2-3, 1969.

United States Animal Health Association, Annual convention, Milwaukee,
Wisconsin, Animal Welfare Committee meeting, October 15, 1969.

Animal Welfare Institute, Annual meeting, Washington, DC, December
3, 1969.

TMetropolitan New York Branch, American Association for Laboratory Ani-
mal Science, Cornell University Medical School, December 4, 1969.
TStanding Committee on Health of the Ontario Legislature, Toronto, Canada,
December 9, 1969.

TState University of New York, Downstate Medical Center, Professor Norman
Bleicher’s Junior Studies, Laboratory Animal Science Course, February
10, 1970.

Westinghouse Science Talent Search exhibtion, Washington, DC, February
28, 1970.
>“National Science Teachers Association, Annual meeting, Cincinnati, Ohio,
March 13-17, 1970.

Meeting to Discuss Regulations Implementing PL. 91—135, the Endangered
Species Act, US. Department of the Interior, Washington, DC, March
17, 1970.

Regional Training Course, Animal Health Division, US. Department of

Agriculture, Phoenix, Arizona, April 7, 1970. Mrs. Dyce, AWI Laboratory
Animal Consultant, spoke.

International Science Fair, Baltimore, Maryland, May 13—15, 1970.
*American Veterinary Medical Association, Annual meeting, Las VegaS,

Nevada, June 22—26, 1970.

*Indicates AWI booth exhibit.
TIndicates paper presented at meeting by AWI President.

\l

”l

 

}

 




Endangered Species Legislation

President Nixon signed the federal Endangered Species Bill into law,
December 5, 1969. The new Act, PL. 91-135, received unanimous approval
by both House and Senate after hearings conducted by Congressman john
Dingell (D., Mich.) and Senator Philip A. Hart (D., Mich). The law pro-
vides penalties up to $10,000 in fines and up to a year in jail or both for
importation of an animal, its hide or other part, if the species has been de-
clared to be endangered by the Secretary of the Interior.

Following a series of meetings and hearings, the Secretary’s list was
issued June 1, 1970. Especially significant was its inclusion of most baleen
whales and the sperm whale. Though Americans have not engaged in major
whaling activity since the 1900’s and Russia and Japan account for 85% of
the whale catch today; nevertheless, the United States purchases approximately
20% of the oil and other products. Elimination of this market would be a
substantial deterrent to the continued ruthless and irrational destruction of
these highly intelligent and noble animals; however, the two companies that
import and process whale oil in the United States are fighting the Secretary’s
decision.

Meantime, New York State enacted two bills on endangered species, one
complementing the federal law, the other taking a much stronger line with
respect to 12 furbearing animals and. all crocodilians. It specifically prohibits
sale or offering for sale of leopard, clouded leopard, snow leopard, tiger,
cheetah, vicuna, polar bear, mountain lion, jaguar, ocelot, margay and red
wolf. Furriers are given six months leeway on the first seven, eighteen months
on the last five. By specifying entire species, problems such as that which has
arisen with respect to the whales under federal law are avoided, since the
decision has been made by the legislature and is not subject to challenge by
vested interests.*

Schweitzer Medal

Michigan’s Senior Senator, a leader in conservation and anti—pollution,
Senator Philip A. Hart, presented the 1969 Schweitzer Medal to Stan W ay-
man, Life photographer, saying “. . . we do well to pause today to pay tribute
to a man who in his professional capacity and as a human being is seeking—-
and successfully—to spread understanding of animals and love for them. We
know so well the power of pictures... Stan Wayman, the noted Life photo-
grapher, has devoted his very great talent to bringing us closer to animals, to
inspiring in us that affection which will lead to concern for their well—being.
The Animal Welfare Institute fittingly honors with its 1969 Albert Schweitzer
Medal this man who, everywhere he goes, makes vivid for us the joy and
the suffering—of those who share this planet with us.”

Responding, Mr. Wayman said, “It is impossible to teach conservation
without teaching a love for animals. We are all grateful to lawmakers like
Senator Hart who work closely with the Animal Welfare Institute and other
conservation groups. . . The wolf, of all predating species has been victimized

 

*The Mason Act was ruled unconstitutional on August 25th. This decision is being ap-
pealed by the National Audubon Society.

 




 

by misinformation. There has been a bounty on his life since ancient Greece.
Children who will never see a wolf in the wild. are taught to hate and fear
him when, in fact, there has never been a documented case of an unprovoked
attack on a human being. I spent a summer with a pack of 13 wolves on
Baffin Island and found them to be gentle fun-loving creatures. I followed
members of the pack for days without a gun and often met them at close
range. Never once was I threatened.”

Readers of Life will recall the series of photographs of the beautiful
white wolves photographed by Mr. Wayman, (see cover picture) and they
will all recall his “Concentration Camp for Dogs” and the lead photograph
of “Lucky,” terrorized and emaciated, rescued at an Oklahoma dog auction
by AWI Laboratory Animal Consultant, Mrs. Dyce.

With his camera, Mr. VVayman has swum and dived with whales, ex—
periencing their care to avoid harming a fellow mammal with their huge flippers.
A number of his photographs appear in the AWI publication, “Animal
Expressions.”

Model State Law Proposed by US. Animal Health Association,
Approved by Council of State Governments.

The Animal Welfare Committee of the United States Animal Health
Association worked over a two—year period to draft a. model, state law to
complement the Federal Laboratory Animal Welfare Act. The Committee,
under the Chairmanship of Dr. Frank Mulhern, Associate Administrator of
the US. Department of Agriculture’s Agricultural Research Service, com-
pleted its work October 15, 1969. Chairmanship of the Committee then passed
to Dr. Grant Kaley, Director, Division of Animal Industry, of New York
State’s Department of Agriculture and Markets.

In presenting the USAHA draft law to the Council of State Govern-
ments for approval at its 1970- annual meeting, Dr. Kaley stated: “Biological
research involving the use of living animals has expanded tremendously dur-
ing recent decades. With this expansion has come an increased demand for
laboratory animals. Supplying this demand became a lucrative business for
many firms and individuals. It was inevitable that the profitable traffic in
dogs and cats would attract unscrupulous characters willing to deal in stolen
pets when the opportunity arose. The housing, care and treatment of animals
in the hands of dealers also became matters of national concern.

“Public Law 89—544 was enacted by the 89th Congress in 1966 in an
effort to improve the lot of research animals and to discourage theft of pets.
It has accomplished much but needs the support of state legislation, par-
ticularly in those areas of commerce where the federal statute does not apply.

“The ‘Model State Law’ of the United States Animal Health Associa-
tion is designed to supplement and support PL. 89—544 by establishing stand—
ards of care for animals in pet shops, pounds and shelters and for regulating
wardens and those dealers not subject to the federal statute. A number of

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

    

state 199513111113 are already considering establishment of controls in some
of these areas.

“The individual who has authority to seize and impound dogs would be
stripped of authority to sell. the impounded animals. This is aimed directly
at the dog stealing racket. The right to take dogs into custody and the
right to sell these same dogs are clearly conflicting interests. This is par«
ticularly true it the proceeds are paid directly to the individual, as has often
been the case. Some dog wardens have developed close working relationships
with dealers, and some dealers have sought appointment as warden to permit
close contact with the dogs in the jurisdictional ar>a. These situations easily
lead to abuses.

“Specifically the proposed legislation would:
“1. Establish standards of care for dogs in pet shops, municipal pounds
and humane soeiety shelters.

“2. Regulate dog dealers and dog wardens.

“3. Discourage theft of pets by dissociating impormdment and disposi-
tion authority.

“4. Assure that fees paid for redemption or sale of impounded dogs and
cats be paid to the municipality or the humane society.

“5. Provide for licensing or registration of people and agencies which
handle small animals in quantity or for commercial purposes.

“6. Offer uniformity of definition and approach to animal welfare prob-
lems at state and federal levels.”

The Council of State Governments approved the model law, and it is
now aiailable for presentation to all state governments by interested grtmps
or individuals.

Tydings Bill to Curb Walking Horse Cruelty

On December 18, 1,969, the United States Senate unanimously passed
53. 2543 to prohibit soring of walking horses. :l—lfeai‘ings on the bill were con-—
ducted by its chief sponsor, Senator Joseph S. illydings (1)., Md.) on Sep—
tember 17, 1969. lrrefutable testimony was presented by John Siegenthaler,
Editor of The Nashville Tennessean, and a team of reporters and 1‘)hotograph—
ers from the newspaper who had made firsthand observations recorded in a
series of major articles on the walking horse industry. Mr. Siegenthaler stated

 

   




 

that the legislation is “necessary to improve—indeed to save—the Tennessee
‘vValking Horse, both as an institution and as an industry.”

Mr. Rawls, who wrote the series summed up as follows: “Based on our
investigation, which continued through last evening at the Tennessee State
Fair horse show and will continue indefinitely, we conclude: 1. That sor-
ing is the rule rather than the exception in the Tennessee walking horse
industry. 2. That tho-ugh clearly in violation of Tennessee law and the law
of other States, soring is a common practice among professional and amateur
trainers, especially those that compete in Tennessee shows. 3. That many of
these trainers candidly admit they have been soring horses, saying it is neces-
sary for them to compete in shows and necessary for the continued growth
in popularity of the breed. 4. That soring results in continuing pain for the
animal throughout his life as a show horse, causing raw and bleeding wounds
which in time become hardened callouses that not only disfigure the horse
permanently but in some cases result in permanent injury. 5. That the exag—
gerated gait or stride produced by soring, which has become the symbol of
the Tennessee walker, is in reality unnatural to the horse and a fraud. 6. That
soring has been a major contributor to the growth of other industry prob—
lems and it is considered by many to be the root of all its evils.”

Living proof of the cruelty, a. Tennessee Walking Horse, “Papa. Charu
coal” waited outside the Senate Office Building till the hearing adjourned
temporarily to examine him. Mrs. Paul Twyne, President, and Mrs. William
Blue, Vice-President, of the American Horse Protection Association, pur-
chased the horse at the “Sale of Champions” at Shelbyville, Tennessee at the
time of the “Celebration.” “Papa Charcoal” was wearing chains on his sore
feet, boots over the chains, and blood was running down over his front hooves
when he was purchased.

Following Senate passage S. 2543 was referred to the House Interstate
and Foreign Commerce Committee where 21 similar bills are already pending.

W7hitehurst Bill to Broaden the Laboratory Animal Welfare Act

Congressman William Whitehurst (R., Va.) introduced five bills to
advance the welfare of animals in the 91st Congress. On june eighth and
ninth, hearings on the most far—reaching of them, H.R 13957, to broaden the
Laboratory Animal Welfare Act, PL. 89-544, were held by the Subcommittee
on Livestock and Grains Chaired by the Hon. Graham Purcell (D, Texas).
A remarkable degree of unanimity was expressed at the hearings by a broad
cross section of the witnesses, including all animal welfare groups who sent
spokesmen to testify, and the major scientific organizations represented.

The bill would extend the protection now afforded research animals
through enforcement of humane standards by the Animal Health Division
of the US. Department of Agriculture, to all species of warm—blooded ani-
mals throughout their entire stay in the laboratory, and these species would

 

 




 

 

 

also be covered in the pet and exhibition trades, and in transit.*

Saylor-Nelson Bills to Prohibit Shooting at Animals from Planes

Hearings were held March 16, 1970 before Congressman John Dingell’s
Subcommittee on Fisheries and Wildlife Conservation of the House Merchant
Marine and Fisheries Committee on HR. 15188 sponsored by Congressmen
John P. Saylor and Dave Obey. The hearing was a lively one in which con~
sideration of ways to make the bill broader and stronger grew through the
development of the testimony by the sponsors and members of the subcom-
mittee. They took a very active interest in the bill, and spokesmen for the
Department of the Interior, who opposed it, were given questions which they
had considerable difficulty in answering.

Hearings were held on the same day on HR. 14602 to make a study
of the endangered Tule Elk. The following day, the identical Senate bill, S.
3028, was given a hearing by the Subcommittee on Energy, Natural Re-
sources, and the Environment of the Senate Commerce Committee.

In formation Reports

Quarterly Information Reports were issued. to approximately 25,000
individuals and groups during the year. In addition to the subjects discussed
in this annual report, an article appeared on “The Wolf Men,” a Metro—
Goldwyn—Mayer documentary film shown twice on national N BC-TV. The
film effectively destroyed ancient myths about this admirable animal. Congress-
man Saylor stood up to applaud the film when it was brought for special
showing at the Capitol. He introduced his bill against shooting animals from
airplanes shortly thereafter. (Vol. 18, No. 4). Articles telling about the
humane bit campaign of the Society for the Protection of Animals in North
Africa to destroy bits which torture horses and donkeys and replace them
with comfortable ones appeared in Vol. 18, No. 3 and Vol. 19, No. 1. Other
articles included a report on legal action taken by the US. Department of
Agriculture against dealers who have violated the Laboratory Animal Wel-
fare Act; publication of a leaflet by the Department reporting on its enforce-
ment of the Act (both Vol. 18, No. 3) ; training courses sponsored by USDA’s
Laboratory Animals Staff (Vol. 19, N o. 2) ; a report on the bad Florida law
permitting so—called “bloodless bullfights,” (Vol. 19, N o. 2); “Alaska Moves
Toward Protection of Bears,” “State of Virginia Prohibits Soring of Walking
Horses,” “Nature Protection Act Introduced by Senator Cranston,” “Protest
Against Treatment of Elk,” “Cage Manufacturer Joins in Conservation Effort,”
“Decision Favors The Condor, An Endangered Species,” (all Vol. 19, N o. 2) ;
“Hearings on Tule Elk Bills in House and Senate,” and “New Ontario Law
on Research Animals,” (Vol. 19, No. 1).

*On July 18, 1970, Congressman Thomas Foley (D., Wash.) a member of the Subcom-
mittee o-n Livestock and Grains, introduced a “clean” bill incorporating additional desirable
features suggested by his study of the legislation after the hearings. This bill, HR. 18637
includes the use of drugs to relieve pain or anxiety of animals as a part of the requirement
for adequate veterinary care—a great step forward for laboratory animal welfare.

On September 14, Senators Alan Cranston (D., Calif), Warren G. Magnuson (D.,

Wash.) and William B. Spong, Jr. (D., Va.) introduced 8.4344, a bill embodying these
same provisions.

 




 

Contributions to the Animal Welfare Institute are deductible in computing
income tax returns, and donations, large or small, are most gratefully accepted
for the general fund or for special purposes. The extension of the Institute’s
much-needed work depends upon such support.

 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

Scientific Committee on Humane Standards for Research Animals
Marjorie Anchel, Ph.D. - Bennett Derby, M.D. - Lee R. Dice, Ph.D.
Paul Kiernan, M.D. - F. Barbara Orlans, Ph.D. - Samuel Peacock, M.D.
Richard G. Pearce, D.V.M. - John Walsh, M.D.

International Committee

Major C. W. Hume, O.B.E., M.C., B.Sc., M.I. Biol.———United Kingdom

T. G. Antikatzides, D.V.M.—Greece - P. Rousselet-Blanc, D.V.—France
Sydney Jennings, M.R.C.V.S., D.V.A.—-Mexico - David Ricardo—Canada
N. E. Wernberg—Denmark

Officers

Christine Stevens, President - Alfred R. Glancy, Jr., Vice-President
Madeleine Bemelmans, Secretary — Roger L. Stevens, Treasurer
Dorothy Dyce, Laboratory Animal Consultant - Barbara Gould, Publications Secretary

 




TWENTIETH ANNUAL REPORT

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
P.O. Box 3492
Grand Central Station
New York, N. Y. 10017

 




 

TWENTIETH ANNUAL REPORT
ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
July 1, 1970 — June 30, 1971

The Animal Welfare Act of 1970

An amendment broadly extending and strengthening the Laboratory Ani-
mal Welfare Act, PL. 89-544, was passed by unanimous consent in the United
States House of Representatives and the Senate and signed by President
Nixon, December 24, 1970. The new law, the Animal Welfare Act of 1970,
PL. 91-579, will go into effect one year from the date of signature.

The United States Department of Agriculture, whose Animal Health
Division will administer the law, estimates that there will be five times as many
inspection sites where humane standards for the care and housing of animals
covered by its provisions must be enforced. The inspectors are given added
authority and the Department now has subpoena power to assist it in court
cases. Severe penalties for shooting at or otherwise attacking inspectors have
been added.

The new law provides protection for all species of warm—blooded animals
named by the Secretary of Agriculture. It requires the maintenance of humane
standards throughout the entire period that animals are kept in laboratories.
The appropriate use of anesthetic, analgesic, and tranquilizing drugs is now
included under the requirement for adequate veterinary care of research ani-
mals. Circuses, zoos, carnivals, road shows and wholesale pet dealers must
adhere to the humane standards promulgated under the Animal Welfare Act

of 1970.

As stated by the Chairman of the House Agriculture Committee, W.R.
Poage, in the Committee Report, “It is a bill which initially was controversial,
but which, by virtue of good reason and good will and deliberation and dis—
cussion by many persons of divergent views, was able to command the unani-
mous approval of the Committee on Agriculture as well as the joint sponsor—
ship of the entire membership of the Livestock and Grains Subcommittee.”
This unanimity continued throughout the entire legislative process.

Summing up the significance of this broadest of all federal animal pro-
tective laws, the Agriculture Committee Report states, “This bill represents
a continuing commitment by Congress to the ethic of Kindness to dumb ani—
mals. Beginning with the legislation passed in 1966 (Public Law 89—544),
the United States Government has implemented a statutory mandate that
small helpless creatures deserve the care and protection of a. strong and en-
lightened public.”

The Animal Welfare Institute Scientific Committee on Humane Stand-
ards for Research Animals met in Washington, DC. on April 14, 1971 to
discuss the new regulations to be promulgated by the Department of Agricul-

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Amn‘il—ls—d

P-hH-aOJdt-i-n‘PH




 

 

 

ture. Proposals for regulations relating to the appropriate use of anesthetic,
analgesic, and tranquilizing drugs and on reports from scientific institutions
on their use were prepared by the Committee. The President of the Insti—
tute represented the Animal Welfare Institute at the meeting called by the
Department of Agriculture to discuss the regulations with humane groups.

Publications

This year two translations were completed of the Animal Welfare Insti—
tute manual, Basic Care of Experimental Animals. First, Dr. T. G. Antikat-
zides of the Institute’s International Committee supervised translation, publi-
cation, and distribution of the new Greek version of the manual. Toward the
end of the fiscal year, Mrs. Robert Dyce, Animal Welfare Institute Labora-
tory Animal Consultant, completed a similar task for the new Spanish version,
now available for distribution to the Spanish-speaking animal caretakers widely
employed in metropolitan laboratories, and to scientific institutions in South
America and Spain.

Lack of information on the proper care of animals in laboratories results
in much needless suffering, and the urgent need for this Animal Welfare In—
stitute manual in Greece, for example, is point-ed up by the responses from
Greek laboratories characterizing the manual as “a pioneer effort in an un—
known field” or indicating that “there is no such publication in existence in
Greece.”

A photograph given the AVV I of a dog upon which experimental surgery
had been done in a Greek laboratory and its incision closed with nothing but a
big safety pin conveys the desperate need for basic information.

The fifth American edition of Basic Care of Experimental Animals was
brought out with the kind assistance of Dr. Samuel Hodesson, Director,
Division of Animal Resources, College of Medicine, University of Arizona
and Dr. Jules Cass, Chief of Research in Laboratory Animal Medicine, Sci—
ence and Technology, Research Service, Department of Medicine and Surgery,
Veterans Administration, Washington, DC. Both Dr. Hodesson and Dr. Cass
are veterinarians.

Dr. Hodesson wrote, “I think the manual is appropriately named and
beautifully written. Too frequently we become so concerned with the scientific
aspects of laboratory animals that we overlook the necessity for spelling out
the many details of basic care as the Animal Welfare Institute has done. I
would like to see a well—thumbed copy of this manual in the hands of every
animal caretaker. We distribute them to students in the basic training course
for laboratory animal technicians and inform them that it is required reading
for anyone involved in animal caretaking.”

Increased information on anesthetic, analgesic and tranquilizing drugs
is included in the new edition.

A second edition of Animal Expressions, a photographic footnote to
Darwin’s Expressions of the Emotions in Man and Animals, is still in prepar-

 

 




 

 

ation. Readers are urged to contribute photographs showing interesting ex-
pressions of animals for use in the new edition. Credit will be given for all
photographs which are used.

Reprints of the article, “Better Nutrition Studies,” by F. Barbara Orlans,
Ph.D., which appeared in the November, 1970 issue of The American Biology
Teacher are available to teachers and other interested persons from the Ani—
mal Welfare Institute.

Work is underway on a revised edition of Facts About Furs published
by the Universities Federation for Animal Welfare in 1957. The author, F.
Jean Vinter, M.D., has generously undertaken as a contribution to the Ani—
mal Welfare Institute the very considerable task of bringing up to date the
information on how furs are produced throughout the world. Following pub—
lication by the Animal Welfare Institute, the World Federation for the Pro—
tection of Animals plans translations in several languages. Facts About Furs
is the only publication of its kind, so it is of unique value to organizations
seeking to protect animals from the cruel leg-hold trap and other painful ways
of capturing or killing animals for their fur.

Following are statistics on distribution of Animal Welfare Institute pub-
lications for the year:

Manuals distributed to scientific institutions at their request: ‘

a 2,722 copies of Basic Care of Experimental Animals, 78—page manual for
animal caretakers.

o 617 c0pies of Comfortable Quarters for Laboratory Animals, 103—page col-
lection of floor plans, construction details and equipment.

0 23 copies of Small Animal Anesthesia, by Phyllis Croft, D.V.\I.
o 32 copies of Humane Experimental Technique, by Russell and Burch.
Manuals distributed to teachers at their request:

6 6,551 copies of First Aid and Care of Small Animals, 46—page illustrated
manual.

0 3,714 c0pies of Humane Biology Projects, 48—page illustrated manual.
9 2,175 c0pies of Studying our Fellow Mammals, 172—page illustrated book.
Reprints and statements distributed to high school teachers:

0 2,200 c0pies of “Boundaries of Use of Animals in High School Biology,”
by F. Barbara Orlans, Ph.D., reprinted from The Science Teacher, February,
1968.

0 1,160 copies of “Attitudes Toward Animals,” by Christine Stevens, re-
printed from The American Biology Teacher, February, 1970.

a 200 copies of “Better Nutrition Studies,” by F. Barbara Orlans, Ph.D.,
reprinted from The American Biology Teacher, November, 1970.

a 3,975 copies of “Painless Animal Experimentation,” by F. Barbara Orlans,
Ph.D., reprinted from Scholastic Teacher, April, 1970.

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

0 4,823 copies of “Rules Governing Treatment of Animals by High School
Biology Students and Reasons why Animal Experiments by High School
Students Should be Painless”.

o 910 copies of “Statement on Animals in Secondary Schools,” by W. \V.
Armistead, Dean, College of Veterinary Medicine, Michigan State University.

0 1,631 copies of “High School Science Coordinator Devises System to Pre-
vent Cruel or Hazardous Science Fair Projects,” by William Dunkum, Co-
ordinator for Mathematics and Science, Alexandria City Public Schools, Alex—
andria, Virginia.

Leaflets distributed for the elementary grades included:
3,789 copies of “Kittens and Cats”.
1,799 copies of “You and Your Dog”.
0 3,000 copies of “Good Kind Lion”.
o 400 copies of “Befriending Animals,” reprinted from Childhood Education.

Approximately 25,000 miscellaneous leaflets were distributed. Two pub—
lications of general interest were distributed as follows:

a 1,687 copies of “Animal Expressions,” with 106 photographs illustrating
the concepts of Charles Darwin’s “Expression of the Emotions in Man and
Animals.”

0 870 c0pies of “Animals and Their Legal Rights,” 216—page paperback by
Emily Stewart Leavitt and other authors.

Many of the Animal Welfare Institute publications distributed, reach
a wide audience of teachers, as for example, the participants of the National
Science Foundation Biology Institute summer session at the University of
Montana, The British Columbia Youth Science Fair in Vancouver, the con—
ventions of the National Science Teachers Association in Washington, DC,
and of the National Association of Biology Teachers in Denver, Colorado.

Laboratory Animal Consultant Program

Dorothy Dyce, Animal Welfare Institute Laboratory Animal Consultant,
was commended by Governor William G. Milliken for her conscientious serv—
ice on the Advisory Committee on the Humane Use of Animals under pro-
visions of Michigan Act 241, BA. 1947, which regulates the use of research
animals. The Governor wrote: June 11, 1971, “I understand that you have
been a very active member of the Committee and have contributed greatly
toward the enforcement of the humane use of animals in research laboratories.
Your conscientious service as a member of this Committee is greatly
appreciated.”

Mrs. Dyce was invited to speak about her work for experimental animals

to the post-doctoral fellows in laboratory animal science at the University of
Michigan Medical School, May 25, 1971.

 

 




 

A bad case of failure to- provide adequate space for squirrel monkeys under
experiment in a Michigan laboratory was rectified through Mrs. Dyce’s per-
sistent efforts coupled with complaints to the enforcement agency, the Michi-
gan Department of Health. The monkeys’ cages were only 11 inches high. They
have now been doubled in height. Mrs. Dyce also reports to the United States
Department of Agriculture when she finds any violation of the Laboratory
Animal Welfare Act, PL. 89—544; however, animals under experiment are
not covered by this law at present. They will be as of December 24, 1971 when
the Animal Welfare Act of 1970, PL. 91—579, goes into effect.

Mrs. Dyce receives and welcomes requests for her inspections by all
laboratory personnel. In one recent case, a caller who wishes to have his name
withheld, drew her attention to extreme suffering on the part of a dog that
was not receiving needed pain—relieving drugs. Through Mrs. Dyce’s im—
mediate intervention, a change in the handling of this and other dogs being

subjected to the same experimental procedures was instituted. Anesthesia was

ordered and the entire protocol reviewed. A statement has been posted on
the laboratory bulletin board as follows: “All dogs must be anesthetized while
on the table for the blood withdrawal and plasma—making process.” The pro-
cedure has also been shortened. Prior to Mrs. Dyce’s intervention, dogs were
tied down without anesthesia for seven or eight hours while blood was with-
drawn. They are now anesthetized and tied down for only three hours at a
time. The case is under continued scrutiny.

A serious case of neglect of experimental animals at the US. Public Health
Service Hospital in Staten Island, New York, was reported by Mrs. Dyce *0
the Secretary of Health, Education and Welfare. Although HEW refused to
acknowledge all of the needless animal suffering cited in Mrs. Dyce’s YEPOTt’
the Assistant Surgeon General did acknowledge “lack of cleanliness and ani-
mal cage and physical facilities deficiencies” and stated: “It is admitted that
we do have problems with our animal research facilities at Staten Island as
our building is old and the physical lay out less than desirable. Dr. GaHUZZi
informed us that he will give high priority to refurbishing the animal research
laboratory and that immediate attention has been given to improving cleanli—
ness and the animal cages.”

A few of the conditions observed by Mrs. Dyce follow:

“No post—operative care for experimental animals. Complete lack of sani—
tation and floor drainage. The odor in the dog and rabbit rooms is intolerable.
Dried fecal matter observed in empty food dish in dog cage on both days.
Water bowls in rabbit cages are filthy and some contain fecal material. Dried
fecal material encrusted on rabbit cage.

“Large pools of water on floor of smaller dog room and on floor of rabbit
room. Improper drainage makes it impossible for water to go into drains un-
less it is swept into them. Temperature in animal house cannot be controlled
due to a faulty heating system. Some caged dogs are in a position next to
a boiling radiator; others are near an open window and subjected to the cold.




No exercise area for the dogs although some are there on long—term experi-
ments. One such dog, on a thyroid experiment, has been there for six years.

“Record keeping is negligible. It is difficult, if not impossible, to discover
which researcher experimented on a particular animal. The caretaker and
hospital administration were at variance as to the name of the investigator who
did an eye transplant on a rabbit over a year before my visit. It was also
difficult to discover who did an experiment on a dog on Monday. The dog
died sometime during the night and was found by the caretaker when he ar-
rived on Tuesday morning.

“Practice surgery is done on dogs by residents of St. Vincent’s Hospital on
Monday morning under unsterile conditions in a filthy room in the animal
house. I was told by the caretaker that although most of the dogs die, some
live for a week or two. Residents of Doctor’s Hospital have a similar arrange-
ment, doing their work on Wednesday. I was informed that the residents do
not have a key to the animal house, so they cannot come back to look after
the dog's after hours.”

Under the heading “Specifics—Dogs” the first two paragraphs of the
report read as follows:

“There are two dog rooms on the first floor of the building. The smaller
room of the two is used exclusively for renal dogs used by Dr. Kinney who
is on the staff of the US. Public Health Service Hospital. All females, these
(logs are housed in metal cages with mesh floors.

“Dog in Cage #4. A brown short—haired mongrel dog. Surgery was done
on her by Dr. Kinney on January 9th. Dog paralyzed in rear quarters since
surgery. Mr. Brown, the head caretaker, told me that he had called Dr. Kinney
and told him about the paralyzed dog five days before my visit and nothing
had been done. At my suggestion, he called Dr. Kinney on Tuesday afternoon
in my presence. Mr. Brown told him that an inspector was there and wanted
to know about the dog. Dr. Kinney said that he had telephoned the veterinarian
who, after examining the dog, recommended euthanasia. When I telephoned
D1“. O’Connor, the veterinary consultant, she said she had never been consulted
about this dog.”

Under the heading “Statistics—Dogs” the following appears: “Dog popu-
lation is approximately forty, procured from three sources: (1) American
Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, which delivers the dogs to
the hospital, (2) Henry Christ, licensed USDA dealer in Farmingdale, New
Jersey, and (3) M. L. Kredovski, the Lone Trail Kennels, Friedensburg,
Pennsylvania.” It is interesting to note that both of these dealers have been
in trouble with the US. Department of Agriculture which has charged both
With violations of the Laboratory Animal Welfare Act.

This laboratory visit report is given in some detail so that the lack of
Proper inspection and enforcement procedures of the Laboratory Animal Wel-
fare Act by the Department of Health, Education and Welfare can be noted.

 

 




 

The veterinary inspectors of the US. Department of Agriculture are not em-
powered to inspect laboratories under the jurisdiction of the Department of
Health, Education, and VVelfare.*

Shooting Animals From Aircraft

During the period covered by this Report, the US. House of Representa—
tives twice passed a bill to provide a criminal penalty for shooting at animals
or birds while airborne in an aircraft, the first time at the end of the 915t
Congress, December 7, 1970, and again on May 17, 1971*"<

Horse Protection Act

The cruel soring of Tennessee Walking Horses is prohibited under the
terms of the Horse Protection Act, which was signed into law by President
Nixon on December 9, 1970. The new law prohibits the shipment of any horse
in interstate commerce for showing or exhibition which a person has reason
to believe is sored. It makes unlawful the exhibiting of a sored horse in any
horse show or exhibition in which that horse or any other horse was moved
in interstate commerce, and it prohibits the holding of any horse show in
which a sored horse is exhibited if any of the horses in that show were moved
in interstate commerce. The US. Department of Agriculture will administer
the law. Proposed regulations were published in The Federal Register, July
1., 1971, and many adverse comments were received by U. S. D. A. from per-
sons associated with the walking horse industry who do not want to see ef-
fective regulations promulgated. Humanitarians approved the proposed regu-
lations.

Wild Horses

“America’s Last Wild Horses,” by Hope Ryden (E. P. Dutton, New York,
1970) was published in the fall of 1970 and was condensed for The Reader’s
Digest, June, 1971. Bills to protect the wild horses and place them under the
jurisdiction of the Secretary of the Interior were introduced in both House
and Senate, and Senator Henry Jackson (D., Wash), Chairman of the Senate
Interior Committee, was chief sponsor of S. 1116, which passed the Senate
unanimously on June 29, 1971.

Whales, Dolphins, and Porpoises

The decision of Ex-Secretary of the Interior, Walter Hickel, to place the
baleen and sperm whales on the Endangered Species List was being chal-
lenged at the end of the last fiscal year. It survived the challenge, and products
from eight species of whales will be denied entry into the United States by

*In October, Mrs. Dyce revisited the US. Public Health Service Hospital in Staten Island
and found conditlons vastly improved. The doctor in charge of research thanked Mrs. Dyce
for the Animal Welfare Institute’s complaint to the Department of Health, Education and
Welfare about the deplorable conditions for the research animals.

“Passed the Senate with a strengthening amendment, November 4, 1971.




November, 1971. Following the Hickel decision, the Secretary of Commerce,
Maurice Stans, issued a. ruling prohibiting further whaling by the United
States. The last whaling company, Del Monte Fishing Company of San Fran-
cisco, objected strenuously and, following a hearing, was given a one-year
extension before final cessation of all whaling December, 1971.

The International Whaling Commission met in Washington. D.C., June
21-25, 1971, for the first time since its inception. Under Secretary of State
for Political Affairs, U. Alexis Johnson, speaking before the Commission, said,
“Public opinion around the world clearly is growing impatient with what most
people view as a failure by this Commission to move quickly enough to pre-
vent destruction of a unique natural resource.”

The United States Senate clearly demonstrated the accuracy of Secretary
Johnson’s view by passing on June 29th a Joint Resolution requesting the
Secretary of State to call for a ten—year international moratorium on the kill—
ing of all species of whales."< The Resolution, sponsored by Senate Minority
Leader Hugh Scott (R., Pa), pointed to the extreme urgency of the problem.
The N ew York Times commenting on it June let under the heading “Mora-
torium on Extinction” said, “. . . when restraint is all that is required to save
a creature from extinction, and when the slaughter goes on, shame is not
enough. Constructive anger and effective action are demanded. . . . There is
now pending in Congress a joint House-Senate resolution instructing the sec-
retary of state to call for an international moratorium of 10 years on the kill-
ing of all whales. The resolution should be acted on without delay.”

A very active interest in saving the whales was shown at the AWI booth
at the National Science Teachers Association in Washington, DC, March
26—29, 1971, where the recording made by Dr. Roger Payne, “Songs of the
Humpback Whale,” was played continuously with eight head-sets so that sci-
ence teachers and supervisors from all parts of the country could hear the
strange and fascinating songs made by these gentle and playful giants of the
sea. There was more interest at this booth than at any the AWI has ever pre—
sented before. All eight head—sets were sometimes in use at once, and many
teachers made a special visit to the booth at the recommendation of friends
who had already listened. Suggestions for an ecology action program were
given to teachers for use in their classrooms, and articles on whales have since
appeared in Science and Children and other educational publications.

Silk screen posters abjuring the reader to “Stop Whaling” in Russian,
Japanese, and English were shown at the AWI booth through the courtesy
of the California School of Design, which supplied them to Geneva MacDonald
who came from Boston to join local AWI volunteers in p1‘0t65ting the Phght

of the whales.

Other Endangered Species

The last Annual Report carried the news that the Mason Act, one of two
endangered species laws passed last year by the New York legislature, had

*A modified version passed the House, November 1, 1971.

 




 

 

 

been declared unconstitutional. Fortunately, this decision was overruled by
District Judge Walter R. Mansfield on November 30, 1970. He ruled that
the plaintiff, Palladio, Inc., a Massachusetts shoe manufacturer, “has no pro-
perty right in the wildlife of foreign countries, and the mere loss of profits is
not a basis for declaring the state laws unconstitutional. The state’s list may
be broader than the federal list. We cannot overrule the legislature for being
cautious. Extinct animals, like lost time, can never be brought back. They
are gone forever. Since 1600 AD. the world has destroyed for all time 130
animal species and 228 sub-species.”

Schweitzer Medal

Senator Charles Percy (R., Ill.) presented the 1970 Schweitzer Medal
to Bob Cromie, Chicago Tribune columnist Whose hard—hitting criticism of
cruelty to animals has resulted in major changes for the better.

Especially significant was the decision by Westinghouse Electric Company
to end awards in their annual Science Talent Search to any projects involving
captive living animals. This decision was announced following a series of
C romie columns reporting on and condemning cruel experiments by young
contestants.

Other successful campaigns for which Mr. Cromie wrote with telling
effect were those to stop the shooting of tethered turkeys to raise money for
the Kewaskum, Wisconsin, Kiwanis Club and to stop the shooting of pigeons
in the public streets of Indianapolis by the Jaycees.

The Schweitzer Award Ceremony took place at the AWI annual meet-
ing, December 16, 1970, at St. John’s Parish House, Washington, D. C.

Meetings and Exhibits Attended by AWI Representatives

Humane Society of the United States. Annual Convention, Warren Ohio,
Dorothy Dyce spoke October 10‘, 1970.

United States Animal Health Association, Animal Welfare Committee meeting,
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, October 20, 1970.

l\ational Association of Biology Teachers. Annual convention, Denver, Colo—

rado, October 20-24, 1970. AWI booth exhibit.

American Association for Laboratory Animal Science. Annual meeting, Chi-
cago, IlliiiOis, November 1-6, 1970.

New York State Humane Association. Annual meeting, Port Jervis, New
York, November 12-13, 1970‘. Madeleine Bemelmans spoke.

Animal Welfare Institute. Annual meeting, Washington, DC. December 16,
1970.

Regional Training Course, Animal Health Division, United States Depart-

ment of Agriculture. Columbus, Ohio, January 19—22, 1971. Christine Stevens
spoke.

National Science Teachers Association. Annual convention, Washington, DC,
March 26-30, 1971. AWI booth exhibit.

“ £ M“~—~W———tm. Hmu _ .Wr__._w___:;

75

 

 

 




r f . JAE“ - WW-_:,.__A A We

 

Information Reports

Four times a year approximately 25,000 copies of the AWI Information
Report are sent to AWI members, public libraries, members of the Federa-e
tion of American Societies for Experimental Biology, Deans of Medical and
Veterinary Medical Schools, humane societies, and several thousand individual
veterinarians, teachers, scientists, administrators, and librarians who have
asked to receive them. The Reports contained articles on all the subjects men-
tioned in this Annual Report and, in addition, carried articles on the Nature
Protection Act, the indictment of international animal dealers and shippers
by the US. Department of Justice, and the revocation of the license of a
Cincinnati, Ohio, laboratory animal dealer by the US. Department of Agricul—
ture (Vol. 20, No. 1). Articles on actions to restrict the leg—hold trap ap-
peared in Information Reports Vol. 19, No. 4 and Vol. 20, No. 2. An article
entitled “New Use for Dog in Medicine” described how a canine “Psychiatrist’s
helper” aids troubled children at the University of Michigan’s Children’s Psy-
chiatric Hospital (Vol. 19, No. 4). A report from the Army on cessation of
use of dogs as laboratory animals for training Army Medics, who had pre-
viously shot dogs in the leg and amputated the leg, appeared in Vol. 20, N0. 2.
The Guiding Principles issued by the Canadian Youth Science Foundation,
including the provision that “no vertebrate animal experiment should be under—
taken which interferes with the normal health of the animal or causes the ani-
mal pain or distress,” were published in Vol. 19, No. 3, as was an article
entitled “Secretary Hickel Stops Flow of Strychnine to South America,” tell—
ing of the cessation of our export of strychnine for the painful killing of home-
less dogs in Latin American countries. Vol. 19, No. 3 also included a report
on new California Health Department regulations requiring a 30-day quaran-
tine period for 145 kinds of primates and South American wild cats and a
report on legal actions against laboratory animal dealers and a research labora-
tory by the US. Department of Agriculture under the Laboratorv Animal
Welfare Act, PL. 89-544.

 

Contributions to the Animal Welfare Institute are deductible in computing
income tax returns, and donations, large or small, are most gratefully accepted
for the general fund or for special purposes. The extension of the Institute’sr
much-needed work depends upon such support.

 

 

 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
Scientific Committee on Humane Standards for Research Animals

Marjorie Anchel, Ph.D. - Bennett Derby, M.D. - Lee R. Dice, Ph.D.
Paul Kiernan, M.D. - F. Barbara Orlans, Ph.D. - Samuel Peacock, M.D.
Richard G. Pearce, D.V.M. — John Walsh, M.D.

International Committee

Major C. W. Hume, O.B.E., M.C., B.Sc., M.I. Biol.——United Kingdom
T. G. Antikatzides, D.V.M.—Greece - P. Rousselet-Blanc, D.V.——France
Sydney Jennings, M.R.C.V.S., D.V.A.—Mexico - David Ricardo—Canada
N. E. Wernberg—Denmark

Officers

Christine Stevens, President - Alfred R. Glancy, Jr., Vice-President
Madeleine Bemelmans, Secretary - Roger L. Stevens, Treasurer
Dorothy Dyce, Laboratory Animal Consultant - Barbara Gould, Publications Secretary

 

 




 




TWENTY FIRST ANNUAL REPORT

Mother and infant humpback whale
photographed from below.

From THE WHALE: Mighty Monarch of the Sea by Jacques-Yves
Cousteau. Copyright ©1972 by Jacques-Yves Cousteau. Repro-
duced by permission of Doubleday & Company, Inc.

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
PO. BOX 3650
Washington, D. C. 20007

 




 

TWENTY FIRST ANNUAL REPORT
ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
lune 31, 1971 to July 1, 1972

The Whale, Symbol of the Stockholm Conference

At the first conference on the environment, United Nations delegates
voted 53-0 to support the United States proposal for a ten-year international
moratorium on the commercial killing of whales. Coming as it did after a
series of unsuccessful proposals by our country, this heartening unanimity
pointed a new direction, and the whale became the symbol of the Confer-
ence held in Stockholm, June 5-16, 1972.

Animal Welfare Institute members and readers of the quarterly Infor-
mation Reports are aware of the continuing efforts made by the Institute
to educate a wide public to the desperate need for the protection of whales
and dolphins.

Following the “Save the Whale” booth presented by the Animal Wel-
fare Institute at the 1971 convention of the National Science Teachers As-
sociation, an exhibit aimed at the protection of the smaller cetacea, the dol-
phins and porpoises, was mounted for the 1972 convention.

At the annual meeting of the International Whaling Commission in
London, June 26—30, our country lost in the vote for a moratorium on whale
killing, but the vote: 4 — 6 with 4 abstentions was close enough to give pause
to the Russians and the Japanese who, between them, kill 85% of the 35,000
odd whales killed each year. The head of the US. delegation, The Hon.
Russell Train, Chairman of the Council on Environmental Quality, pro—
posed that the press be admitted to hear the discussions of the Conference,
but (such is the ingrained power and tradition of the Whalers) not a single
country was brave enough to second his motion! Chairman Train was I101:
easily deterred, however. Later in the week after the vote on the mora-
torium he called a press conference at the American Embassy and told the
press how each country’s delegate had voted. The delegates from Norway
and Australia voted against the moratorium, although those countries had
supported it in Stockholm. The delegate from Canada abstained, although
Canada, too, had voted with 52 other countries at Stockholm to support a
10—year international moratorium. The closed doors of the International
Whaling Commission were finally opened and the commercialism which
has dictated its so—called “conservation” activities plainly displayed.

The Animal Welfare Institute will continue to fight for protection of
the whales and dolphins through every avenue open to it.

Publications

.This year more than 1,100 Chiefs of Police requested copies of the
Animal Welfare Institute book, Animals and Their Legal Rights. The re—
quests came in as a result of a special mailing offering single free copies
to the Chiefs in a move to encourage better enforcement of state and local

anti-cruelty laws and to acquaint police forces with existing federal laws
for the protection of an1mals.

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

The use of the Animal Welfare Institute manuals Basic Care of
Experimental Animals and Comfortable Quarters for Laboratory Animals
in universities for teaching purposes continues. Dr. Robert D. Powers, As-
sociate Professor, School of Veterinary Medicine, Auburn University, wrote
on November 2, 1971: “I would like to acknowledge receipt of 240 copies
each of ‘Basic Care of Experimental Animals’ and ‘Comfortable Quarters
for Laboratory Animals.’

“I would like to express my appreciation to the Animal Welfare In—
stitute for supplying me with this excellent teaching material. These publi—
cations are extremely helpful to me in teaching a course in Laboratory Ani-
mal Medicine here in the School of Veterinary Medicine. Each student is
allowed to keep a copy of each publication for his future reference. Some
students will be entering the military service following graduation, and I
feel that these publications will be most helpful to them. Other students
will be going into graduate research following graduation, and I am sure
that these publications will supply much of the basic data that will be
needed in this area. Those students who will be going into private prac-
tice following graduation will find these publications most useful in two
areas: (1) They will be helpful in designing the animal facilities that will
be needed in their practices, and (2) They will be helpful in supplying
much of the basic data on those laboratory animals that are kept by people
as pets. Thank you very much for your help.”

At the end of the period covered by this report “Facts About Furs,”
by Dr. F. Jean Vinter, was in galley proof with publication expected in the
autumn. Illustrations will include photographs of fur bearers caught by the
cruel leghold trap, and also of domestic animals inadvertently caught and
maimed in traps set for furbearers. A single free copy will be supplied on
request to any humane society; others may purchase it for one dollar. In
the United Kingdom it will be distributed by the Royal Society for the
Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

A new reprint for science teachers, “The Science Fair and the Ex~
perimental Animal. . .,” from the June 1972 issue of the Seccan N ews was
made available for distribution by the Animal Welfare Institute. The article
documents the important progress made in Canada in the past year in put-
ting an end to experiments by high school students which hurt or kill ani—
mals. Dr. Harry Rowsell, Professor of Pathology, Faculty of Medicine,
University of Ottawa, and Permanent Secretary, Canadian Council on
Animal Care, has played a leading role in this important reform and has
enlisted the Canadian veterinary profession in carrying it out. The Youth
Science Foundation in Canada makes needed information available to teach-
ers, students, and sponsors of science fairs. Canada has now set a stand-
ard which the United States should strive to match.

Following are statistics on distribution of Animal Welfare Institute
publications for the year:

Manuals distributed to scientific institutions at their request:

1,384 copies of Basic Care of Experimental Animals, 78-page manual
for animal caretakers. Spanish Edition—585 copies.

969 copies of Comfortable Quarters for Laboratory Animals, lO3—page
collection of floor plans, construction details and equipment.

 

 

 




 

23 copies of Humane Experimental Technique, by Russell and Burch.
Manuals distributed to teachers at their request:

3,869 copies of First Aid and Care of Small Animals, 46—page illustrated
manual.

2,866 copies of Humane Biology Projects, 48—page illustrated manual.

487 copies of Studying our Fellow Mammals, 172—page illustrated book.
(Out of print until funds are donated for printing costs).

Reprints and statements distributed to high school teachers:

3,183 c0pies of “Boundaries of Use of Animals in High School Biology,”
by F. Barbara Orlans, Ph.D., reprinted from The Science Teacher, Febru-
are, 1968.

2,448 copies of “Attitudes Toward Animals,” by Christine Stevens,
reprinted from The American Biology Teacher, February, 1970.

1,366 copies of “Better Nutrition Studies,” by F. Barbara Orlans, Ph.D.,
reprinted from The American Biology Teacher, November, 1970.

1,745 c0pies of “Painless Animal Experimentation,” by F. Barbara. Or-
lans, Ph.D., reprinted from Scholastic Teacher, April, 1970.

2,400 copies of “Rules Governing Treatment of Animals by High School
Biology Students and Reasons why Animal Experiments by High School
Students Should be Painless.”

1,227 copies of “Statement on Animals in Secondary Schools,” by W.W.
Armistead, Dean, College of Veterinary Medicine, Michigan State University.

850 copies of “High School Science Coordinator Devises System to Pre-
vent Cruel or Hazardous Science Fair Projects,” by William Dunkum, Co-
ordinator for Mathematics and Science, Alexandria City Public Schools, Alex-
andria, Virginia.

Leaflets distributed for the elementary grades included:

4,753 copies of “Kittens and Cats.”

1,300 copies of “You and Your Dog.”

5,250 copies of “Good Kind Lion.”

200 copies of “Befriending Animals,” reprinted from Childhood Edu-
cation.

Approximately 20,000 miscellaneous leaflets were distributed. Two pub-
lications of general interest were distributed as follows:

. 1,173 copies of “Animal Expressions,” with 106 photographs illustrat—
mg the concepts of Charles Darwin’s “Expression of the Emotions in Man
and Animals.”

1,833 copies of “Animals and Their Legal Rights,” 216-page paperback
by Emily Stewart Leavitt and other authors.

 

 

 




 

 

 

Laboratory Animal Consultant Program

Seven laboratories in or near Mexico City were visited by Dorothy Dyce,
Animal Welfare Institute Laboratory Animal Consultant, when she went
to Mexico to attend the International Veterinary Congress last August.
Shocking conditions were discovered in the animal rooms of the Mexican
Social Security Institute, and Mrs. Dyce moved actively to obtain the des-
perately needed improvements. In addition to registering complaints locally
an urgent request for help for the animals was addressed to the Ford Foun—
dation which gives grants to the Social Security Institute. A description of
the situation including photographs of some of the animals and the quarters
in which they were housed was published in the Animal Welfare Institute
Information Report, Vol. 20, No. 3.

Following are excerpts from a letter Mrs. Dyce wrote to Mr. William
H. Nims, Assistant Secretary of the Ford Foundation, May 5, 1972, correct—
ing material circulated by the Ford Foundation to humanitarians who wrote
letters of complaint.

The Relationship between the Ford Foundation and the Mexican
Institute of Social Security

When I was in the Department of Surgery on the third ﬂoor of the
Mexican Institute of Social Security and complained about the conditions
for the animals, I asked one of the veterinarians where they received the
funds for their research. One of them told me that the Mexican Institute
of Social Security is funded by The Ford Foundation. I told the veteri-
narian that I had met Mrs. Ford and I was certain that she would do
something to help if she were aware of the dreadful conditions as outlined
in our letter of September 17, 1971. I told him that I would contact Mrs.
Ford and that is precisely what I did.

In your letter you state that “Grant Support (Ford Foundation) is
provided only to the Division of Reproductive Biology in the Institute’s
Research Department. It represents a very small portion of the operating
budget of the division. Furthermore the division does not use any of the
animals referred to in Mrs. Dyce’s letters and in the Report.”

In the last paragraph of the ﬁrst page of your letter you continue by
saying “The small animals used in research in reproductive biology,
partially supported by a Foundation grant, are housed in a new facility
located in a separate building on the campus of the Medical Center.
Though Mrs. Dyce did not visit these new facilities, we promptly investi-
gated the conditions referred to in the article and in Mrs. Dyce’s letters.
In these investigations the Foundation sought and received the full coop-
eration of the ofﬁcials of the Department of Research, who we are sure
would also have appreciated the opportunity of seeing the Report article
prior to publication.”

You are mistaken, Mr. Nims, I did Visit this new animal building described
in Dr. Moore’s report on page two of your letter. When I visited this new
animal building in August of 1971 it had recently been completed and
was equipped with stainless steel cages. However, there were no animals
in the building as it was not formally opened at that time.

It would seem, then, that the animals used in the Division of Reproductive
Biology, partially supported by a Ford Foundation grant, must have been
some of those which I saw on the third ﬂoor of the Institute’s Research

 

 




 

 

Department. I was told that the third ﬂoor was the only ﬂoor where
animals were housed.

What type of animals are used in the Division of Reproductive Biology?
I saw dogs, cats, kittens, rabbits and chickens. Although monkeys are
used on the third ﬂoor of the Institute’s Research Department I did not
see them because the room in which they are housed was locked. The
doctor in charge of the monkeys was not available and he, apparently,
is the only one who has a key to the monkey room. Perhaps the monkeys
are used in the study of reproductive biology. If so, we would be pleased
to know how these animals are housed. We already know how the other
animals were housed at the time I was there in August, 1971.

Correspondence Exchange between Mr. John F unari, the Foundation’s
representative in Mexico City, and myself

Mr. Funari’s letter of November 23, 1971 in answer to mine of September
17, 1971 did not indicate in any way that grant support from The Ford
Foundation is provided only to the Division of Reproductive Biology, a
Research Department in the Mexican Institute of Social Security. A glance
at his letter will conﬁrm this statement.

Report of the physician member of the Foundation’s Mexico City staﬁ
who investigated our complaint

While our letter of September 17, 1971 (with photographic documentation
enclosed) speciﬁcally outlined conditions on the third ﬂoor of the research
building, the physician did not visit this area. In his report he stated that
he visited the new animal building and found things to be satisfactory.
For some unknown reason he did not visit the area we complained about
although it is within walking distance from this new animal building.
This new building is designed to house “small animals.” Since there were
no animals in the building at the time I was there I cannot say whether
the cages are large enough to accommodate the animals which now
occupy them.

Dr. Moore’s report as outlined on page two of your letter

I did not visit this Department (Department of Experimental SurgerY)
today, but have visited it several times in the recent past and alwayS
found it to be clean, well-ventilated, with good attention to the animals’
nutrition and general handling.

It may be that the photographs referred to were taken during a transi-
thfl perlod, though even at that time (three months ago) all the small

animal quarters, which may have been somewhat crowded and smelly,
were essentially clean.

The eleven photographs which we included with our letter of complaint
clearly showed the “crowding of the animals.”

Mr. and Mrs. Walsh, who were with me the day the photographs were
taken, agree that it was more than “somewhat crowded and smellY-’
In fact, Mrs. Walsh who spent less than two or three minutes in the dog
room became quite ill and had to go outside for air.

I ﬁnd it difﬁcult to understand how the animal quarters can, be essentially
clean and smelly at the same time as described by Dr. Moore.




EEC—cg

Dr. Moore’s visit to the large animals shelter (I do not understand
the use of the word “shelter”—the Mexican Institute of Social Secu-
rity is clearly a research institution which should not be confused
with a “shelter”) in early December, 1971 as outlined on page three
of your letter

1. There are approximately 125-150 dogs now housed in this area.

This is a great increase over the “few large animals (dogs and sheep)
on the third ﬂoor of the research building” as noted in his November
report.

Having seen the two dog rooms I can’t imagine how 125-150 dogs could
be housed in them. It must be even more crowded now than it was when
I was there in August of 1971.

2. They are released for extensive exercise once or twice a week and
are exercised for brief periods during the course of the week.

Since the aisle space between the cages is so narrow (substantiated in
photographs of the two dog rooms) it would be impossible for 125-150
dogs to be “exercised extensively.” There is no special exercise area so
I cannot imagine where the dogs would go for this exercise period—brief
or otherwise.

3. Dogs will not continue to be housed in their present facilities; a new
modern ‘animal farm’ is being planned to house all of the animals used
by the Mexican Institute of Social Security. Dr. Moore found only one
cage that he considered to be too small, and even in this one case the
dog was perfectly able to stand up without scraping his back.

We are delighted that dogs will not continue to be housed in their present
facilities. They should not have been housed there in the ﬁrst place. We
hope the new “animal farm” will include pens as suggested in our
September 17, 1971 letter rather than cages. The dogs will be no better
off on an “animal farm” in a rural area if they continue to be conﬁned
in small, rusty cages.

If Dr. Moore found just one dog which he considered too large for his
cage on his December visit then the dogs must be much smaller than they
were in August, 1971. The dog population was considerably less than
125-150 dogs when I was there in August and our photographs clearly
show dogs Whose heads are scraping the tops of the cages.

4. The decrease in dog population reported in Dr. Moore’s earlier Visit
was temporary, but, at the same time, the present large dog populatlon
can also be considered temporary.

This does indicate that “erroneous impressions” can be conveyed, since
in Mr. Funari’s letter of November 23, 1971, Dr. Moore stated that he did
not Visit this facility at that time. Now, you state that he did Visit it at
that time.

5. Cats and kittens are not ‘crammed into cages’; they are kept in a
communal area or in the new small animal building on Wthh Dr. Moore
reported to you in my letter to you of 23 November.

Cats and kittens were “crammed into cages” when I visited this facility
In August of 1971. We have photographs to conﬁrm this as well as two
witnesses, Mr. and Mrs. Walsh. The cats and kittens were in small cages
designed for housing rabbits. They were in the small room adjacent to the
large dog room. Rabbits, too, were housed in the same room in cages the

 

 




 

 

same size as those in which the cats and kittens were “crammed in
together.”

Some of the cats I saw were in a “communal area” and we did not com-
plain about this. In fact, I complimented the veterinarians on this type of
housing and could not understand why other cats and kittens were
crammed into cages when communal housing was available.

If cats (as stated in Dr. Moore’s Report) are housed in the new building
I hope they are not kept in the cages which I saw since the stainless
steel cages in the new animal building are not high enough to house a cat.

6. There are still some animals housed in ‘the small room’ as you
describe it, on the third floor. The ‘large hole’ is in fact an open light-well,
with a covered shelter on the entire periphery.

Obviously, Mr. Nims, you have not personally visited this facility, or you
would not make such a statement. I will describe it to you. As you enter
the animal quarters, you walk into the larger room where dogs are
houSed. There are two smaller rooms on either end of this larger room.
The room on the left (as you enter the larger room) is used for housing
dogs. In this room there is an open light-well, with a covered shelter on
the entire periphery. However, the small room on the other end is also
used to house research animals.

This is the room where I saw the cats and kittens crammed together into
small cages. Rabbits and chickens are also housed in this room. (At
least they were in August, 1971.)

This is the room with the large gaping hole in the roof. In fact, I asked
the veterinarian how long the hole had been in the roof and he answered,
“For a long time!”

Our photographs unquestionably confirm that there was a large hole in
the roof in August, 1971. The photograph, incidentally, was taken by an
employee of the Mexican Institute of Social Security. Fortunately, I have
a witness. Mr. Walsh saw the large hole in the roof. He also heard the
veterinarian’s reply to my question. He also took a photograph of the
hole in the roof.

This, Mr. Nims, is not an open light-well, but a large, gaping hole in the
roof.

Poisoning of Predators Halted by Executive Order

On February eighth President Nixon issued a statement on “environ-
mental awakening” and barred, by Executive Order, the use of poisons for
predator control on all public lands. Secretary of the Interior, Rogers Morton
stated, February 12th, that his Department had “started receiving poison baits
from federally owned ranch lands.” The Administration bill to give legislatiVe
authority to this important reform was introduced in the Senate by Senator
Warren Magnuson (D., Wash), Chairman of the Senate Commerce Com—
mittee, and by Congressman Edward Garmatz (D., Md.) Chairman of the
House Merchant Marine Committee. It was passed by the House of Repre-
sentatives, after amendment, on July 17, 1972.

More Spotted Cats Placed on Federal Endangered Species List

Importation of cheetah, leopard, tiger, snow leopard, jaguar, OCGIOt’ mar—
gay and tlger cat was banned March 30, 1972 by Secretary of the InterIOl‘

 

 




 

 

Rogers Morton. No live animal, parts or products made from them may
now enter the United States, except under the economic hardship clause up

to March 30, 1973.

The Department of the Interior has also investigated the status of the
28 additional species of wild felines and Secretary Morton stated, “If the
hide hunters begin to threaten these species. I’ll not hesitate in listing them
as well.”

Animal Welfare Act Regulations

Regulations were promulgated December 24, 1971 under PL. 91-579,
the Animal Welfare Act, which amended and strengthened the Laboratory
Animal Welfare Act, PL. 89—544. The new regulations cover animals in
zoos, circuses, auctions, the wholesale pet trade, pet shops selling exotic ani-
mals, and those parts of laboratory animal quarters not included in the
original Act.

Research institutions must now comply with the following regulation:
“It shall be incumbent upon each research facility through its animal care
committee and/or attending veterinarian to- provide guidelines and consulta-
tion to research personnel with respect to the type and amount of tranquiliz—
ers, anesthetics, or analgesics recommended as being appropriate for each
species of animal used by that institution. The use of these three classes of
drugs shall effectively minimize the pain and discomfort of the animals while
under experimentation.”

Discussion by interested groups of space requirements for zoo and circus
animals and the opportunity for exercise for laboratory dogs and cats was
scheduled by the Animal Care Staff, Animal and Plant Health Inspection
Service, US. Department of Agriculture prior to writing final regulations
relating to space.

"The Three R’s”

At the 1971 annual meeting of the American Association for the Ad-
vancement of Science, the Animal Welfare Institute presented a booth ex-
hibit featuring Replacement, Reduction and Refinement in biological research:
replacement of vertebrate animals with other experimental subjects or ma-
terials; reduction of numbers of animals; refinement of technique to reduce
pain and anxiety.

A computer averaging technique which permits studies in man, the sub-
ject of choice, rather than studies using implantation of electrodes in the
brains of cats and primates, was described in papers by Dr. Samuel M. Pea-
COCk, Jr. which were published in Electraemephalography and C'lmzcol N euro-
Physiology. Dr. Peacock is a member of the Animal Welfare Institute Sc1-
entific Committee.

Papers by Dr. Arthur C. Guyton from Circulation Research illustrated
the concept of reduction since the computer augmented the data obtalned
from animal experiments making it possible to reduce the number of am-
mals used.

“These computer results,” Dr. Guyton wrote, “are'almost, identical with.
the results earlier in this paper from the animal experiments.

 

 




 

 

 

In October, the Universities Federation for Animal Welfare held a
symposium on the “Rational Use of Living Systems in Bio—Medical Research”
which included papers on substitution of tissue and organ cultures. These
papers have now been published by UFAVV and are available from its of—
fices or from the Animal Welfare Institute. Discussion from the floor in-
cluded emphasis on the need for experimental biologists to be better informed
on the selection of the appropriate animal or other experimental subject or
material. It is reported in the published symposium as follows: “Dr. Haigh
asked why insufficient attention was given to the issue of species specificity
in animal experimentation. Many results obtained in other species could in
no way be extrapolated to man. For example, if Chain and Florey in their
work on penicillin had used the guinea pig and the goat as experimental ani-
mals they would have concluded that this substance had such extreme tox—
icity that it was pointless to continue with this line of research. At the mo-
ment there seemed to be no organization which could advise the research
worker as to which animals were most suitable for a particular type of
experiment.”

Schweitzer Medal

Senator W’arren Magnuson (D., Wash.) who was a Schweitzer Medal~
list in 1967, presented the 197.1 Schweitzer Medal to Congressman Thomas
Foley (D., Wash.) in a ceremony held in the old Supreme Court chambers
in The Capitol, December 14, 197 1. In accepting the award Congressman
Foley said:

“I am convinced that we are entering a new era in consciousness and
concern in this country over the conditions of life enjoyed by animals. The
legislation of the past three or four years is, as Senator Magnuson has said,
only the beginning, and I am sure that in the next decade we are going to
attack and successfully treat those areas that are still without adequate legis—
lation and protection. The effect of the Animal Welfare Act is going to be

largely felt not only in our country and in the influence it will have on the
values of our society, but it is going to be one of those things by which we
will offer international leadership. The United States, more than any other
nation, has written into the legislation and made part of its national com—
mitment, the care and concern for the welfare of animals. When we look
back, in some future century, on our society in the 1970’s it will be in this
commitment that we will find one of our brightest achievements.

“I am particularly happy to have the award presented here in this historic
room since it was early in our history a scene of inhumane conditions and
humane concern. For those of you who may not know it, at one time this
room was where the Senate of the United States met. In the decades prior
to the Civil War, ventilation was the infamy of man. At that time, visitors
would sit in the gallery and listen to the debates, all the while silently suffer-
ing and almost expiring at times from the oppressive heat. The only source
of relief were those humane Senators who used to take sticks and hand up
fresh fruits and other refreshments to the gallery. The determination of the
gallery watchers has always amazed me, even today.”

 

 

 




 

 

 

Meetings and Exhibits Attended by AWI Representatives

American Veterinary Medical Association, Annual Convention, Detroit,
Michigan, July 18-22, 1971. AWI booth exhibit.

Better Business Bureau of Metropolitan New York, Inc., Pet Industry
Symposium Program, New York, N.Y.; Christine Stevens spoke August
19, 1971, on “Consumer Problems and Animal Suffering in the Pet Industry.”

International Veterinary Congress, Mexico City, Mexico, August 16-21, 1971.

New York State Humane Association, Buffalo, N.Y. September 23-24, 1971;
Dorothy Dyce spoke.

Universities Federation for Animal Welfare Symposium on “The Rational
Use of Living Systems in Bio—Medical Research,” London, England, October
7-8, 1971.

American Association for Laboratory Animal Science, Annual Session, New

York, N.Y., October 11—15, 1971.

National Association of Biology Teachers, Chicago, Illinois, October 12—16,
1971. AWI booth exhibit. Dr. F. Barbara Orlans’ paper presented.

Humane Society of the United States, Annual Convention, Providence, Rhode
Island, October 15-17, 1971. Dr. F. Barbara Orlans spoke.

United States Animal Health Association, Animal Welfare Committee, Oc-
tober 25, 1971.

Animal Welfare Institute, Annual Meeting, Washington, D.C., December
14, 1971.

American Association for the Advancement of Science, Philadelphia, Penn—

sylvania, December 27—30, 1971. AWI booth exhibit.

National Science Teachers Association, Annual Convention, New York, N.Y.,
April 7-10, 1972. AWI booth exhibit.

Federal Legislation

November 18, 1971, PL. 92-159 to provide a criminal penalty for shoot-
ing at animals and birds from aircraft was approved by the President. On
June 5, 1972 the House of Representatives passed an amendment to place
enforcement authority in the Department of the Interior to prevent the law
from being disregarded. '

December 15, 1971, PL. 92-195 an Act for the protection of wild
horses under the authority of the Secretary of the Interior was approved.

At the end of the period covered by this report the Marine Mammals
Protection Act had passed the House of Representatives and the Senate and
been referred to a conference committee to resolve the differences. This con-
troversial legislation brought about floor fights for both strengthening and
weakening amendments in both bodies. To assess the effectiveness of the
final version it will be necessary to observe the results of the law in its first
year of operation. In particular, the question of division of authority be-
tween the Secretary of the Interior and the Administrator of the National
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) was at issue and will
be under scrutiny by conservationists. Interior is given jurisdiction over

 




walruses, polar bears, and sea otters. NOAA administers whales, dolphins,
seals and manatees. There is serious concern that the o1ientation of NCAA
in the Department of Commerce will have an adverse effect on the needed
protection of these animals.

Information Reports

The quarterly Information Reports of the Animal Welfare Institute are
sent to some 25,000 different groups and individuals including AWI mem-
bers, public libraries, members of the Federation of American Societies for
Experimental Biology, Deans of Medical and Veterinary Medical Schools,
humane societies, and several thousand individual veterinarians, teachers, sci-
entists, administrators, librarians, and technicians who have asked to re—
ceive them. The Information Reports carried articles on the subjects already
mentioned in this Annual Report and, in addition, on new endangered spe—
cies laws passed by the States of Delaware and Massachusetts; on sea otter
deaths caused by Cannikin; on Science Magazine’s lead article, “Songs of
Humpback Whales,” by Roger Payne and Scott McVay; the AW I’s new
director, Cynthia Wilson; the rescinding of the Florida law permitting bull
fights; the smuggling of endangered species by Massimo Marriotti (Vol. 20,
N o. 4). An article on rules to restrict high school animal experimentation by
the Houston Science Engineering Fair; a report on the formation of the
new Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service headed by Dr. F. J. Mul-
hern in the US. Department of Agriculture; Experimental Biological Con—
trol of the Peach Borer; development of a substitute for Whale oil by the
Sun Oil Company as reported by Senator Hugh Scott (R., Penna); and
a threatened boycott of sealskins by the National Audubon Society in re—
sponse to proposals for sealing in the antarctic appeared in Vol. 21, No. 1.
Reports on progress of animal protection in other countries appeared in that
issue and in Vol. 21, No. 2 including British activities to protect whales
and other endangered species, and in Greece, the elimination of strychnine
to kill stray dogs, the adoption of humane slaughter devices, and the 1evoca—
tion of licenses of vessels in which animals t1 anspmted were suffering a high
mortality

 

Contributions to the Animal Welfare Institute are deductible in computing
income tax returns, and donations, large or small, are most gratefully accepted
for the general fund or for special purposes. The extension of the Institute’s
much-needed work depends upon such support.

 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

Scientific Committee on Humane Standards for Research Animals
Marjorie Anchel, Ph.D. - Bennett Derby, M.D. - Lee R. Dice, Ph.D.
Paul Kiernan, M.D. - F. Barbara Orlans, Ph.D. - Samuel Peacock, M.D.
John Walsh, M.D.

International Committee

Major C. W. Hume. O.B.E., M.C., B.Sc., M.I. Biol—United Kingdom
T. G. Antikatzides, D.V.M.—Greece - P. Rousselet-Blanc, D.V.—France
Sydney Jennings, M.R.C.V.S., D.V.A.——Mexico - David Ricardo—Canada
N. E. Wernberg—Denmark

Officers

Christine Stevens, President - Alfred R. Glancy, Jr., Vice-President
Madeleine Bemelmans, Secretary - Roger L. Stevens, Treasurer
Dorothy Dyce, Laboratory Animal Consultant - Barbara Gould, Publications Secretary

 




TWENTY SECOND ANNUAL REPORT

(romancing...

This picture, courtesy of Friends of the Earth, Ltd., shows
the cruel war on whales still carried out by Japan and the
U.S.S.R. With helicopters, airplanes, ships, radar, ASDIC, and
bombs that detonate inside the whale.

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
PO. BOX 3650
Washington, D. C. 20007

 




 

TWENTY SECOND ANNUAL REPORT
ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
June 31, 1972 to July I, 1973

U. S. Delegation at London Gains Majority on Whaling Moratorium

The United States won a majority vote on its proposal for a ten-year inter-
national moratorium on commercial killing of whales at the annual June meeting of
the International Whaling Commission (I.W.C.) in London. The vote was 8-5 with
one abstention.

Time magazine in a vigorous article reporting on the need for “a reprieve for
whales” quoted U. S. Commissioner to the I.W.C., Dr. Robert White, as saying,
“Whales come under no nation’s exclusive national jurisdiction and as such are an
international trust in which all nations should have a voice”. It quoted Dr. Lee
Talbot, Senior Scientist of the Council on Environmental Quality, as saying that
after the vote for the moratorium, “Suddenly, the I.W.C. ceased being a happy club
for Whalers”.

Nevertheless, the Whalers continued, in large measure to prevail, for a 3A ma-
jority is required to carry a proposal in the I.W.C. A moral victory was gained, but
She numbers of whales to be killed in the coming season was only moderately re-

uced.*

Any nation can object within 90 days of the I.W.C. meeting and thus reject
the controls voted. It is this system which has led to the disastrous decimation of
the world’s whales under the supposed protection of the Commission.

A boycott of Japanese goods appeared to conservationists attending the meet-
ing as observers as the only practical way to bring the necessary pressure on an
intransigeant industry. The Animal Welfare Institute began preparatory work on the
boycott shortly after return of its representative from London. Information on
how to help save the whales is available on request to all members and friends of
the Institute.

Publications

Facts About Furs is the major AWI publication of the past year. Written by
Dr. F. Jean Vinter, a foremost authority on the subject, who wrote the fore-runner
of this edition in 1958 for the Universities Federation for Animal Welfare, it con-
sists of fourteen chapters, an appendix and index and is illustrated with 28 photo—
graphs and drawings. Single free copies are being offered on request from libraries
and humane societies. To others it is available at cost price, $1.00,

There is little of an encouraging nature to be found in this highly condensed
summary. The leghold trap, aptly compared with crucifixion as a method of pain
infllction, continues to be used on thousands of animals in countries throughout
the world. Cruel poisons follow as a close second in killing furbearing animals. The
pr1m1t1ve desrre to parade in furs shows little sign of slackening despite the availabil—
ity of well promoted and much less expensive “fake furs”. Promotion of real fur
appears to have been stepped up substantially in the past year in response to crit-
iclsm .of the cruelty of the leghold trap and reports of long-standing and repeated
violations of federal law by a substantial segment of the New York fur industry
involved 1n international smuggling of the skins of endangered species.

*On September 14th Japan took objections which means the total numbers will be higher than

last year rather than lower Subsequentl ' '
, . y, the USSR followed th -
Japan on two of three major issues. e anti conservatlon lead Of

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

7M. >




Reprints of two magazine articles were made available and circulated by the
AWI during the year, “Modular Kennels for Laboratory Animals” from the May
issue of College Management and “Help for Whales” from the July 16th issue of
Time. Time told very clearly the tragic situation of the whales under the present
system of “conservation”.

College Management gave sound advice on providing comfortable, roomy
housing for laboratory dogs, monkeys, and other of the larger species of exper-
imental animals, too often caged instead of being kept in space of reasonable size.
With examples from two leading medical schools, Johns Hopkins and the Medical
College of Virginia, it is hoped that others will follow their lead in getting dogs
removed from cages to kennel-runways where they can live a more nearly normal
life.

Distribution of AWI publications during the year is summarized below.

0 1772 copies of “Facts About Furs,” 106 pages of information on the way furs are
obtained throughout the world, by F. Jean Vinter, MD.

0 698 c0pies of “Animal Expressions,” with 106 photographs illustrating the
concepts of Charles Darwin’s “Expression of the Emotions in Man and Animals.”

0 659 copies of “Animals and Their Legal Rights,” 216-page paperback by Emily
Stewart Leavitt and other authors.

Manuals distributed to scientific institutions at their request:

0 1308 copies of Basic Care of Experimental Animals, 78—page manual for animal
caretakers. Spanish edition — 43 copies.

0 542 copies of Comfortable Quarters for Laboratory Animals, 103-page collection
of floor plans, construction details and equipment.

0 21 copies of Humane Experimental Technique, by Russell and Burch.

Manuals distributed to teachers at their request:
0 3837 copies of First Aid and Care of Small Animals, 46-page illustrated manual.
0 2334 copies of Humane Biology Projects, 4l-page illustrated manual.

Reprints and statements distributed to high school teachers:

0 2464 copies of “Boundaries of Use of Animals in High School Biology,” by F.
Barbara Orlans, Ph.D., reprinted from The Science Teacher, February, 1968.

O 2030 copies of “Attitudes Toward Animals,” by Christine Stevens, reprinted
from The American Biology Teacher, February, 1970.

0 139 copies of “Better Nutrition Studies,” by F. Barbara Orlans, Ph.D., reprinted
from The American Biology Teacher, November, 1970.

. 1458 COpies of “Painless Animal Experimentation,” by F. Barbara Orlans, Ph.D.,
reprinted from Scholastic Teacher, April, 1970.

0 2567 copies of “Rules Governing Treatment of Animals by High School Biology

Students and Reasons why Animal Experiments by High School Students Should
be Painless”.

. 1496 copies of “Statement on Animals in Secondary Schools,” by W.W.
Armistead, Dean, College of Veterinary Medicine, Michigan State University.

0 1556 c0pies of “High School Science Coordinator Devises System to Prevent
Cruel or Hazardous Science Fair Projects,” by William Dunkum, Coordinator for
Mathematics and Science, Alexandria City Public Schools, Alexandria, Virginia.

0

 




 

Leaflets distributed for the elementary grades included: ,

0 1489 copies of “Kittens and Cats”.
0 692 copies of “You and Your Dog”.
0 1258 copies of “Good Kind Lion”.

O 2681 copies of “Befriending Animals,” reprinted from Childhood Education.
Approximately 10,000 miscellaneous leaflets were distributed.

Endangered Species Treaty

The single most important event for the advancement of animal welfare this
year was the plenipotentiary conference held in Washington, D.C. February 12 to
March 3 which resulted in the signing of a treaty for protection of endangered
species of animals and plants through trade restrictions designed to put smugglers
and poachers out of business and to stop exploitation of creatures threatened with
extinction.

Ninety-two nations took part in drafting a convention which provides a per-
mit system documenting trade in any individual animal, part or product of an
animal listed as endangered. Trade includes import, export, re-export, and intro-
duction from the sea. There are three separate lists of threatened wildlife. Appendix
1 species are those in immediate danger of extinction, commercial trade in which
must be wholly stOpped. Appendix 11 species are those which require careful moni-
toring and restriction in trade to prevent them from reaching the intolerable situa-
tion of those on Appendix 1; Appendix 111 species are those which an individual
nation finds to be endangered within its own national boundaries and wishes to list
so as to have the benefit of international cooperation in enforcing its own pro-
tective laws. Appendix 111 makes possible for the whole world the valuable provi-
sions of the U.S. Lacey Act which prohibits importation of any animal or product
contrary to the laws of the country from which it was taken. The U.S. experience
over a period of 60 years with this law, plus a spectacular example of its enforc—
ment which resulted in charges against 33 New York furriers with potential fines up
to $500,000, reported by the press in the second week of the plenipotentiary con-
ference, brought home the importance of Appendix II provisions.

The contracting states undertake to enforce the required control. A secre-
tariat to organize biennial meetings, undertake studies and help implement the con-
vention is established.

. . Most important from the humane standpoint is the requirement that “any
11V1ng specimen be so prepared and shipped as to minimize the risk of injury,
damage to health, or cruel treatment”. A substantially similar requirement is repeat-
edseven times throughout the body of the treaty wherever handling or shipping of
animals is treated on. Further, a requirement is made that “the proposed recipient
of a living specimen be suitably equipped to house and care for it”.

The treaty was ratified by the U.S. Senate in August of this year. When ten
states have ratified it, it will go into effect.

Cruel Experiments by High School Students

A major study by Dr. F. Barbara Orlans, a member of The Scientific Advisory
Committee of the AWI, was presented in a series of two articles in Information
Reports Vol. 21, No. 3 and 4. In the first article, the projects using live animals in
eight science fairs were documented. The resulting analysis allowed that 66% in-
ﬂicted pain or lingering death on the subjects. Ghastly mistreatment of animals was




detailed, and the complete ineffectiveness of controlling cruelty by guidelines call-
ing for supervision was demonstrated over and over again. The projects described
included amateur surgery, deprivation experiments of every sort, forced breathing
of smoke or of insecticides, forced drinking of salt water or water containing up to
40% alcohol, centrifuge experiments, painful electric shocks, intense noise, stress of
many kinds including preventing animals from sleeping or eating, allowing them to
freeze to death, exposing them to lethal radiation, induction of convulsions, cancer,
rickets, blindness, and, of course, ultimately, death.

In the second article, Dr. Orlans made constructive suggestions for bringing an
end to these cruel and anti-educational activities, the majority of which were con-
ducted in students’ homes. Sound rules for adoption by science fairs, specifically
prohibiting painful projects were published. The articles were widely disseminated
and made a deep impression on readers.

There are clear indications that this misguided phase of science teaching has
run its course. In California, where local humane organizations had worked for sev-
eral years to pass a bill to stop experiments by untrained youths which caused suf—
fering to animal subjects, a well-drafted bill introduced by Senator Albert S. Rodda
was enacted into law. In Maine, an attempt to repeal existing legislation prohibiting
cruel experiments in high schools failed, as previous attempts had done in Illinois.

Schweitzer Medal

Russell Train, Chairman of the Council on Environmental Quality* accepted
the 1972 Albert Schweitzer Medal from Dillon Ripley, Secretary of the Smith—
sonian Institution at a ceremony held November 2lst in the Smithsonian’s Hall of
Life in the Sea. .

Chairman Train’s role in fighting for the survival of whales was emphas1zed
among his many great contributions to the protection of wild animals, and Secre-
tary Ripley expressed his pleasure in presenting the medal“. . ,under the whale
where we can hear the music of the spheres,” referring to the life-size model of the
great blue whale suspended over the heads of assembled AWI members and friends,
and to the “Songs of the Humpback Whale” which were broadcast overthe public
address system. Mr. Ripley continued,“. . .to think about the earth as it really 18,
rather than the earth as constructs in economics and the social sciences would have
us believe that it is, is something of enormous importance. Russell Train has per-
formed a great service in his manifold works for the environmental-conservatlon
field, and I, for one, through my friendship with him and knowledge of him am
convincedthat this is merely the beginning, and that he will go on from strength to
strength”. _ .

In responding, Chairman Train spoke of the importance of the efforts of 1nd1-
vidual citizens in carrying forward the work for the protection of animals and the
environment, “I think it is quite clearly the case that without citizen concern and
citizen action really nothing would happen in this area. Governments move and
politicians move, bureaucrats move, because the peOple want them to and ‘put the
heat on’. . .I’m delighted to see so many friends from other governments, members
Of the diplomatic corps here, because I know they are sensitive to this same phe-
nomenon occurring in their own countries. . . .” He spoke of “the action of our
government in stopping the use of poisons, on the public lands against predators, a
very difficult decision, taken by the President by Executive action: very contro-
versial as those of you who may come from Wyoming or Colorado or other sheep
country in the West know that this was a ‘tough bullet to bite’ ”. Concluding, he
said, “we, increasingly, I think, care for other forms of life because they are won-
derful and exciting beings, but we also have come to understand that the health of
the whales, the health of other marine mammals, of the other terrestial mammals,

*Now Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency.

 




 

and birds, is part —- an essential part — of the health of the total environment of
which we, too, are a part”.

Information Reports

The Quarterly Information Reports of the AWI were distributed to app-
roximately 25,000 individuals and groups during the year. In addition to matters
already mentioned in this annual report, articles on the following subjects ap-
peared: In Volume 21, No. 3: an article by Tom Garrett, Wildlife Conservation
Director of Friends of the Earth about the 1972 meeting of the International Whal-
ing Commission; and a report on the recommendation by the Merchant Marine and
Fisheries Committee of the U.S. House of Representatives that a substitute for the
painful leghold trap be developed. In Volume 21, No. 4, law enforcement by the
Animal Care Staff of the United States Department of Agriculture included a
charge of soring against Don Bell whose horse was in such pain that it dropped to
its knees.* Increase in numbers of licensed or registered premises which must be
inspected were tallied showing 100% to 200% growth in responsibilities combined
with a decrease of 17% in available personnel. A report on enactment of the Marine
Mammal Protection Act and of actions to protect dolphins and seals taken by See-
retary of Commerce Peter Peterson, prior to his resignation, appeared in this Re-
port. Also included was an article on the indictment of the animal importer, Fred J.
Zeehandelaar, on charges of submitting false statements in an attempt to import 20
live cheetahs for Wild Kingdom, a Florida commercial attraction; an article onthe
starving of 2,000 finches by Pan American Airways; an article on the passage of
Resolutions by the U.S. Senate and House of Representatives for International pro-
tection of polar bears; an announcement of a ban on tunafish by the Greenwich,
Connecticut Board of Education till porpoises are no longer killed in tuna purse
seines; and an announcement of personnel changes: the resignation of Dorothy
Dyce, and appointment of Marilyn Chamberlain as Publications Secretary and
Barbara Gould as Administrative Assistant.

Information Report, Vol. 2, No. 3 contained an Associated Press news story
on Dr. David Secord’s testimony to the U.S. Department of Agriculture stating,

“Confining a dog in a cage without exercise is contrary to everything that is human—
itarian and to the training of a veterinarian”. Other news stories included, “The
Plants and Animals of Detente,” by Scott McVay and a report on the conviction of
a smuggler of whale teeth. The ban on export of Kangaroo hides and meat from
Australia was announced, and the resolution adopted by the International Primatol-
ogical Society urging scientists to become active in the protection of monkeys was
reported.

Testimony by a rancher, Dayton 0. Hyde, at Senate hearings on poisoning of
predators was featured in Information Report, Vol 22, No. 2, as was an article by
Jim Weaver entitled, “Excessive Importation of Exotic Turtles, 20,150 Hatchlings
Incinerated”. A report on the continued drowning of hundreds of thousands of dol-
phins in tuna purse seines made discouraging reading as did the cruelties of the leg
hold trap, detailed in an article on legislation to cut trapping cruelty. An obituary
of Alfred R. Glancy, Vice-President of the AWI since its founding, appeared in this
issue.

*On September 7, 1973 Don Bell was fined $1,000 for showing and soring his horse, Bo-Mar’s
Ebony Belle.

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Meetings and Exhibits Attended by AWI Representatives

American Veterinary Medical Association, Annual Convention, New Orleans,
Louisiana, July 18-20, 1972. AWI booth exhibit.

United States Animal Health Association, Animal Welfare Committee, Miami,
Florida, November 8, 1972.

Meeting on Air Transport of Animals, Civil Aeronautics Board, Washington, D.C.,
January 11, 1973.

United States Department of State, Endangered Species Seminar, Washington, D.C.,
January 15, 1973.

Meeting of Environmental and Humane Groups to Discuss Lacey Act Regulations
Limiting Importation of Exotic Animals, Assistant Secretary of the Interior for
Fish and Wildlife, Washington, D.C., January 18, 1973.

Plenipotentiary Conference on Endangered Species, Washington, D.C., Feb-
ruary 12 ~ March 3, 1973 .

National Science Teachers Association, Annual Convention, Detroit, Michigan,
March 30 - April 2, 1973. AWI booth exhibit co-sponsored by Humane Society of
the United States.

United States Department of State, Endangered Species Conference Briefing,
Washington, D.C., March 16, 1973.

United States Department of Commerce, Inter-Agency Planning for 1973
International Whaling Commission Meeting, Washington, D.C., April 9, 1973.

International Society for the Protection of Animals, Biennial Meeting, London,
England; May 2-3, 1973; Marjorie Cooke spoke in support of a ten-year inter-
national moratorium on cOmmercial killing of whales and successfully recom-
mended adoption of a resolution to that effect by ISPA.

National Marine Fisheries Service Briefing on Marine Mammal Protection Act
Economic Hardship Exemptions, Washington, D.C., May 11, 1973.

International Whaling Commission Annual Meeting, London, England, June 25-28,
1973; Christine Stevens spoke as an observer for Friends of the Earth in favor of
the whaling moratorium.

 




 

Contributions to the Animal Welfare Institute are deductible in computing

income tax returns, and donations, large or small, are most gratefully accepted
for the general fund or for special purposes. The extension of the Institute’s
much-needed work depends upon such support.

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
Scientific Committee on Humane Standards for Research Animals

Marjorie Anchel, Ph.D. Paul Kicrnan, M,D, Samuel Peacock, M.D.

Bennett Derby, M.D. F. Barbara Orlans, Ph.D. John Walsh, M.D.

Lee R“ Dice, Ph'D' International Committee
T.G. Antikatzides, D.V.M. — Greece David Ricardo — Canada N, E, Wernberg _ Denmark
Major C.W. Hume, O.B.E., B.Sc., M.I. Biol. — United Kingdom P. Rousselet-Blanc, D.V. — France

Ofﬁcers

Christine Stevens, President Roger L. Stevens, Treasurer Barbara Gould, Administrative Assistant
Madeleine Bemelmans, Secretary Marilyn Chamberlain, Publications Secretary 4

 

 

 

i

K

 




 




 

TWENTY-THIRD ANNUAL REPORT
ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
June 30, 1973 to July 1, 1974

Boycott Campaign to Save the Whales

A major campaign to bring effective economic pressure on Japan and Russia to force
their agreement to a moratorium on commercial whaling has been conducted by the Animal
Welfare Institute this year. Half-page ads have been taken in 23 newspapers: The Los Angeles
Times, February 3; The Daily Californian, March 8; The Honolulu Advertiser, March 10; The
Daily Pilot (Ca.), March 22; The Village Voice, April 4; The San Francisco Bay Guardian,
April 10; Newsday, April 15; The Daily Breeze (Ca.), April 22; The San Pedro Pilot, April 22;
The San Clemente Daily Sun Post, April 26; The Santa Cruz Sentinel, April 28; The Wall
Street Journal (West Coast), April 29; The Hartford Courant, May 2; The Portland Ore-
gonian, May 12; The Seattle Times, May 13; The Wall Street Journal(East Coast), May 17;
The Spokane Chronicle, June 3; The Spokane Spokesman, June 4; The San Diego Tribune,
June 10; The San Diego Union, June 11; The Wall Street Journal (Midwest), June 14; The
Wall Street Journal (Southwest), June 14; and The New York Times, June 16.

A national promotion of street demonstrations was undertaken beginning in April
1974 resulting in demonstrations in 75 different cities prior to the annual meeting of the
International Whaling Commission. High school students of Japanese descent were active
demonstrators in Honolulu where thousands of AWI “Save the Whale” fliers have been dis-
tributed to visiting Japanese at the airport, the Consulate, and the offices of Japan Air
Lines. In Pittsburgh, demonstrations were held at the zoo, resulting in thousands of sign-
atures on petitions calling for a ten-year moratorium on whale killing. The 27 New York
City demonstrations by Rare Animal Relief Effort were models for the AWI-inspired
demonstrations. Aeroflot’s office makes as good a target as the Japan Trade Center, and New
York will continue to be a center of on—the—street activity.

New England, too, has been a center of anti-whaling aetivity with multiple demo nstra—
tions in Boston, Medford and Marston Mills, Massachusetts; Hartford, Mystic, and Water-
bury, Connecticut; and Aurora, Maine, and development of a permanent pro-whale-anti—
whaler display at the Children’s Museum, Roaring Brook Nature Center in Hartford.

Petitions signed at the demonstrations were presented to the Ambassador of Japan and
a representative of the Soviet Government on June 19, 1974. Marjorie Cooke represented
the Animal Welfare Institute at the presentations with Tom Kimball of the National Wildlife
Federation, Elvis Stahr of the National Audubon Society, Cleveland Amory of the Fund for
Animals, Tom Garrett of Friends of the Earth, and David Hill of the Rare Animal Relief
Effort.

The British Broadcasting Corporation’s film, “Whales, Dolphins, and Men,” has been
shown to hundreds of audiences as a result of the circulation of the film by the AWI.

Among the 17 national conservation and humane groups who took part in the boycott
campaign during the year, special thanks should go to Friends of the Earth and the Fund for
Animals.

Editorial support for the campaign by The New York Times has been outstanding. It
would be impossible to thank all the columnists and editorial writers whose descriptions of
whales and demands for their protection fill two thick scrapbooks with covers 30” x 19”
which have been prepared by the AWI and shown to many groups active in the work.

During 1974 every organization of any stature in the field joined in the boycott effort
to save the whales.

The AWI was in a position to lead that effort due to generous special gifts which made

 

i

 

 

thr

dis
ere

Re




 

the newspaper advertisements possible. The American public, once made aware of the sit—
uation, has sustained the campaign through individual, voluntary contributions. Printing and
distribution of fliers, reprints of editorials and articles, production of buttons, bumper stick-
ers, and T-shirts will continue as will the advertisements until the objective is reached.

Results of the Campaign

Nippon Suisan, the largest fishing company in the world, has let it be known that its
crab meat sales in the United States have suffered as a result of the boycott of Japanese
goods. Unfortunately, Kyokuyo Hogei, which this year purchased the largest fishing
company in Alaska, Whitney-Fidalgo, reportedly takes an inflexible position and is fighting
to the end.

The U. S. State Department sent a cable to the U. S. delegation at the International
Whaling Commission in London advocating a soft line because of international negotiations
simultaneously in progress at the Law of the Sea Conference in Caracas, Venezuela. Since
the United States is the leader in the international fight for the whales, its willingness to
accept the weakening Australian amendment to the United States’ thrice-proposed ten-year
moratorium on commercial whaling brought about an easy acceptance. The Australian
amendment, calling for a “selective moratorium,” puts off any action for one year, at which
time the Japanese and Soviet delegations will have the opportunity again to object to quotas
voted by all other nations and to kill as many whales as they see fit.

This year, it was known in advance that no objections would be laid. If they were, the
machinery already in motion to invoke the Pelly Amendment to the Fishermen’s Protection
Act would mesh, and fishing products from Japan and the Soviet Union would be embar-
goed by the United States Government. Obviously, Nippon Suisan would stand to lose
heavily if this happened. Therefore, the action remains entirely in the realm of shadow-
boxing.

Humanitarians who are serious in their commitment to end the use of the explosive
harpoon, an invention whose vicious cruelty is rivalled only by the leg-hold trap, will do
everything in their power to increase the intensity of the boycott campaign throughout the
United States and the world.

First Reports on Painful Experiments on Animals by Research Institutions

Under the provisions of the Animal Welfare Act, P. L. 91—579, research institutions are
required to report to the Secretary of Agriculture on their use of experimental animals. Fol-
lowing a thorough review of these reports, submitted for the first time in 1973, the Animal
Welfare Institute prepared an analysis for the Department of Agriculture with recommenda-
tions for improvement in the forms and directions for their use. Excerpts from the AWI
analysis follow:

Analysis of the annual reports submitted by research institutions under the
Animal Welfare Act shows considerable variation in interpretation of the re-
quirements under the law. It is the intent of the law to require ‘appropriate use
of anesthetic, analgesic, or tranquilizing drugs’ to prevent animals from feeling
pain or distress whenever possible. The regulations specify that these drugs ‘shall
produce in the individual subject animal a high level of tranquilization, anes—
thesia or analgesia consistent with the protocol or design of the experiment’.

In order to demonstrate in an orderly fashion the nature of the responses
to the APHIS ‘Annual report of research facility’ form, various categories have
been listed for the institutions’ answers under the heading ‘Experiments in-
volving pain or distress without use of an appropriate anesthetic, etc.’ Some of
the categories have very few entries; others have a long list. One of the longest
refers to the use of electric shock on conscious animals. The large number
suggests that there may be a higher degree of accurate reporting in this area than
in a number of others. On the other hand, the absence of the names of many of

 

 




 

the largest institutions even from this list may indicate that scientists in those
institutions have almost automatically written the word ‘none’ under the pain
and distress heading. Generally speaking, responses indicate that the use of anes-
thesia while animals are undergoing an experimental procedure which would
otherwise cause them pain, is fully understood. But the use of analgesics in the
post-experimental situation is rarely mentioned. Analgesics, so far as the reports
are concerned, would appear to be the exception* rather than the rule. This im-
pression may be partially due to the nature of the questions asked and the
attempt to simplify unduly in replying.

For example, a letter I received from the Chairman of the Radiobiology
Laboratory of the University of California at Davis, March 22, 1973, states in
part: ‘Post surgical analgesia is used...we do not allow dogs to undergo prolonged
suffering due to terminal or irreversible disease. We have regular clinical meetings
weekly to discuss all cases and emergency consultations are required.’ This type
of information has rarely been elicited in the information supplied in the annual
reports. There can be no doubt that Congress intended that it should be.

In general, the pharmaceutical industry has been considerably more frank
than the universities in stating the nature of the pain and distress it has been
responsible for causing to animals, sometimes in very large numbers. No relief
from pain is given in the course of routine drug screening of LDSO procedures.
These reports may not be complete in all instancesT; however, the contrast is
strong between reports from many major medical schools which in effect pro-
duce a one-word report on painful experiments (None) and those of industry
which, for example, unhesitatingly describe the writhing test as standard pro-
cedure. '

This particular test has been under fire for many years for its inhumanity.
The Universities Federation for Animal Welfare urged its abolition some ten
years ago. However, it does not actually come under the present purview ofthe
law because mice have not yet been named by the Secretary of Agriculture as
one of the warm-blooded animals included in the minimum standards. Scientif-
ically, there is no reason either for the exclusion of mice, or of aquatic
mammals, some of whose brains are larger than human brains. Both, unfortu-
nately, still remain outside the jurisdiction of the Act until the Secretary moves
to include them by regulation.

. . . Two extremely unpleasant experiments reported from two entirely
separate institutions are worthy of mention. In one, according to the report,
‘Seven hours a day, seven days a week, twenty mOnkeys individually caged, are
exposed to risk of electrical shock. Lever pressing response every 15 seconds
avoids shock completely. Failure to respond causes delivery at a rate of 100 per
minute, repetitive, single, 60 cycle, 2 milliamperes, 50 millisecond duration
shocks to the feet through a grid floor of 3/4 inch diameter tubing.’ Safety pro-
cedures are described to prevent continuance if a monkey is ‘incapacitated and
fails to respond within a few minutes.’ The statement concludes, ‘It is estimated
an average monkey receives 50 shocks per day.’ No reason is given by the IIT
Research Institute of Chicago for this experiment.

The other experiment explains the purpose ‘to condition the cats by swim-
ming for subsequent experiments on the heart.’ The swimming is described as
follows: ‘The cat will start swimming in a tank filled with lukewarm water and
under supervision at short periods (five minutes at a time) up to 45 minutes,
three times daily. Since these studies require utmost physical performance by
the cat, general anesthetics or sedatives are not used. At the end of four months,

*Research Division, Miami Heart Institute. “50 dogs, 175 experimentss Nembutal used. Talwen

and Vetame used.” J .H. Yarbregh, B.S., DVM, MS, and Edwin Boyle, J I. Research Director.
T J ensen—Salsbery reports no pain.

 

 

 




the cat will be sacrificed and the heart will be weighed (including right and left
ventricles separately). The studies will be performed on isolated papillary
muscles of the right ventricle in the myographsetup'.’ (Albert Einstein Medical
Center, Philadelphia.) The question to which no answer‘is given is why, of all the
animals in the world, was the one best shown to hate getting itself wet chosen
for such an ordeal? Where was the advisor who might have suggested that
athletic prowess, if that was the purpose, could have been developed without the
most intensive offensiveness to the feline way of life?

Schweitzer Medal

Dr. Lee M. Talbot, Senior Scientist of the President’s Councilon Environmental
Quality, presented the 1973 Schweitzer Medal of the Animal Welfare Institute to Scott
McVay, Chairman of the Environmental Defense Fund’s Committee on Whales.

In presenting the Medal, Dr. Talbot said in part:

We have gradually become aware that animals do not exist in isola-
tion, but that they must be considered to exist at the center of a web of inter-
relationships—and that the welfare of the animal depends upon the welfare of
that web.

More recently, yet, there has been broad recognition that this factor
applies as much to man as to any other living thing with which we share the
earth. We have come to realize that our own welfare, indeed our own survival,
depends upon maintaining intact and healthy the ecosystems on which we rely;
and the survival of any of the species which are components of these ecosystems
is a part of this, There has also been a growing international component to this
new environmentalism. This was epitomized by the Stockholm Conference on
Human Environment where 1 13 nations to a large degree laid aside their political
differences to concentrate their efforts on the world’s environmental problems.

The results of the Stockholm Conference included agreement on over 100
specific actions, on United Nations environmental institutions and a declaration
of environmental principles; yet the issue which became the symbol of the Con-
ference was the whale. There is probably no living thing today that has come to
be as representative and symbolic of our environmental awareness as the whales.

Whales have become a focal point for international conservation concern.
They have represented a true tragedy of the commons. They have been all-too
exemplary of the over-exploitation and abuse of the environment and its re-
sources by shortsighted human action. In the past they represented a significant
natural resource. With successful conservation, they may again in the future.
More than that, they represent what is widely believed to be a high order of
intelligent being. The public responds to whales because of their unique size,
their social structure, their songs, and from what many believe to be their
kinship to us as intelligent mammals, and their continuing plight and endanger—
ment at the hands of a handful of greedy industries and peoples. Beyond all this,
whales no longer represent a truly significant economic or food resource. If we
prove unable to manage whales, it does not augur well for our ability to manage
any of‘ the other species for which there is so much greater incentive of ex—
ploitation. In other words, if we cannot find a way to manage whales success-
fully, it is unlikely we will be able to do so successfully with any other com-
ponent of our living environment.

In his paper, “What on Earth Was 3 Whale? the Child Asked in an Innocent Voice,”
Scott McVay stated, “The crisis today is sharply defined, carrying the unanimous conviction
of the United Nations Conferences in Stockholm and Geneva—and the principal conservation
groups around the world—the killing of whales must stop.

 




 

 

 

Outlining the history of efforts to save the whales, Mr. McVay described the work of
many individuals, but he pointed out: “The scale of the whale tragedy may be sensed by the
fact that no one is working full-time on the conservation of the whale, although two
countries participate year around in the continuing destruction of the whale, repudiating re-
cently even the moderate accords reached at the International Whaling Commission meeting
last June in London. The time is ripe for sterner measures that may be more keenly felt than
the reason of science or a planetary ethic that transcends terrible pockets of wastefulness,
aggression, and greed . . .”

Mr. McVay focused on two Japanese admirers of the whale, Kenzaburo Oe, whom he
characterized as the leading writer in Japan today, who wrote The Day the Whale Becomes
Extinct, and “Dr. Teizo Ogawa, who is completing a history of Japanese medicine, is an
authority on the anatomy of the whale and in particular its brain. His work over four de-
cades testifies to the significance of the cetacean brain and its importance in understanding
the human brain. In one paper he wrote,

The present author has often told his students a fable of his own, imagining

two high peaks in the realm of Mammalia, namely, Mt. HOMO and Mt.
CETACEA, the latter boasting of a much greater height than the former.”

In his summation, Mr. McVay quoted Henry David Thoreau:

Can he who has discovered only some of the values of whalebone and
whale oil be said to have discovered the true use of the whale? Can he who slays
the elephant for his ivory be said to have ‘seen the elephant’? These are petty

and accidental uses; just as if a stronger race were to kill us in order to make
buttons and flageolets of our bones . . .

Baby Turtles in the Pet Industry

The Animal Welfare Institute joined Consumers Union and the Humane Society of the
United States in petitioning the Food and Drug Administration and the Consumer Product
Safety Commission to ban the sale of baby turtles.

An Associated Press article which appeared in newspapers throughout the country
stated:

Consumers Union petitioned for a total turtle ban last December in the
interest of public health, charging that FDA’s 1972 attempt at controlling the
problem had been a ‘dramatic and demonstrable’ failure.

The Humane Society of the United States and the Animal Welfare In—
stitute joined in the move, pleading the cause of humanity to turtles.

They said that most turtles sold in pet stores are not miniatures but rather
baby red-eared sliders, which ‘under proper care’ could live 40 years in captivity bUt
which generally die within four to six months.

An article by Mary L. Anderson in AWI Information Report, Vol. 23, N0-
4, stated:

Thirteen and a half million domestically bred turtles, mostly red- cared
slider hatchlings from the turtle farms of Mississippi and Louisiana, are sold as
pets for children. . . The turtle trade is built on death. Even the industry itself
admits that 90% of these pets live only 4 to 6 months. . . Yearly 300,000 03568
of salmonellosis, an acute febrile gastroenteritis which can be severe enough to
require hospitalization, and which can cause associated meningitis and brain

abscesses in extreme cases, are transmitted to humans by turtles. Most of the
Victims are children.

Final decisions have not yet been taken by the Food and Drug Administration.

U

rndt-Fr-r‘ l—lOB‘O-Cf

. A A .0- A




Proposed Ban on Importation of Exotic Pets

On December 20, 1973, the U.S. Department of the Interior published proposed re-
gulations under the Lacey Act to prohibit importation of injurious wildlife. Under permit,
importation would be allowed as provided in the Act for educational, scientific, medical and
zoological purposes. Importation for purely commercial purposes would not be allowed.

The pet industry and animal dealers supplying zoos and laboratories have been ex-
tremely vocal in their opposition because they wish to continue to exploit the world’s
dwindling wildlife for their personal gain, regardless of the threat to native wildlife and the
health of humans and domestic animals which has been posed by exotics introduced into
countries where they did not originate. Final regulations have not yet been published by the
Department, although hearings have been held in four cities.

Laws to Protect Animals

The Endangered Species Act of 1973, P. L. 93 - 205, amends the 1966 and 1969 Acts,
broadening and strengthening them and bringing the United States into conformance with
the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Fauna and Flora signed in
Washington March 3, 1973. The U.S. ratification was the first to be deposited at Morges,
Switzerland,following approval of the new Act, December 21, 1973.

Oversight hearings on the Marine Mammal Protection Act were held by Congressman
John Dingell on August 21, 1973 in La Jolla; August 31, 1973 in Anchorage, and January 16
and l7, 19 74 in Washington.

The State of California pioneered with a law prohibiting cruel high school experiments
on animals. Approved June 1, 1973, the law introduced by Senator Albert S. Rodda provides
that “live vertebrate animals shall not, as a part of a scientific experiment or any purpose
whatever, (a) be experimentally medicated or drugged in a manner to cause painful reactions
or induce painful or lethal pathological conditions, (b) be injured through any other treat-
ments, including, but not limited to, anesthetization or electric shock.” The prohibitions

apply to public elementary and high schools and school—sponsored activities wherever they
may be held.

Publications

New publications of the AWl this year have focussed on the whale campaign. A group
of eight different cartoons published in major newspapers were reproduced and circulated, as
Wereeditorials and articles from the Minneapolis Tribune, Los Angeles Times, Louisville
Courier-Journal, Chicago Sun-Times, Indianapolis Star, Hartford Times, New York Times,
New York Post, and MiamiHerald.

. A compilation of articles on whales which have appeared in the Information Report
durmg the past three years was prepared for persons requesting background information on
the. fight for the whales. Petitions addressed to the governments of Japan and the Soviet
Union, reproductions of newspaper advertisements, information on how to organize a de-
'm0nstrati0n,'and news releases on the campaign were prepared and distributed.

. AWI humane educational materials continue to be popular with teachers and informa-
t19n 9f particular interest to humane societies, conservation organizations, and scientific in-
stitutions continues to be in demand. Following is a breakdown on distributions of AWI
publications during the year:

Distribution of AWI publications during the year is summarized below.

' 864 copies of Facts About Furs, 106 pages of information on the way furs are
Obtalned throughout the world, by F. Jean Vinter, M.D.

. 287 COPies of AnimalExpressions, with 106 photographs illustrating the
concepts of Charles Darwin’s “Expression ofthe Emotions in Man and Animals.

 




 

0 621 copies of Animals and Their LegalRights, 216—page paperback by Emily
Stewart Leavitt and other authors.

Manuals distributed to scientific institutions at their request:

0 1350 copies of Basic Care of Experimental Animals, 78-page manual for animal
caretakers. Spanish edition — 43 copies.

0 135 copies of Comfortable Quarters for Laboratory Animals, 103-page collection
of floor plans, construction details and equipment.

0 18 copies of The Principles 0fHumane Experimental Technique, by Russell and Burch.

Manuals distributed to teachers at their request:
0 3608 copies of First Aid and Care of Small Animals, 46—page illustrated manual.
0 1350 copies of Humane Biology Projects, 41-page illustrated manual.

Reprints and statements distributed to high school teachers:

0 1325 copies of “Boundaries of Use of Animals in High School Biology,” by F.
Barbara Orlans, Ph.D., reprinted from The Science Teacher, February, 1968.

0 1382 copies of “Attitudes Toward Animals,” by Christine Stevens, reprinted
from T heAmerican Biology Teacher, February, 1970.

O 490 copies of “Better Nutrition Studies,” by F. Barbara Orlans, Ph.D., reprinted
from The American Biology Teacher, November, 1970.

0 518 copies of “Painless Animal Experimentation,” by F. Barbara Orlans, Ph.D.,
reprinted from Scholastic Teacher, April, 1970.

O 1143 copies of “Rules Governing Treatment of Animals by High School Biology

Students and Reasons why Animal Experiments by High School Students Should
be Painless”.

0 1237 copies of “Statement on Animals in Secondary Schools,” by W.W.
Armistead, Dean, College of Veterinary Medicine, Michigan State University.

0 1066 c0pies of “High School Science Coordinator Devises System to Prevent
Cruel or Hazardous Science Fair Projects,” by William Dunkum, Coordinator for
Mathematics and Science, Alexandria City Public Schools, Alexandria, Virginia.

Leaflets distributed for the elementary grades included:

0 1018 copies of “Kittens and Cats”.
.1178 copies of “You and Your Dog”.

0 1826 copies of “Good Kind Lion”.

O 1448 copies of “Befriending Animals,” reprinted from Childhood EducatiOn.
Approximately 10,000 miscellaneous leaflets were distributed.

Save the Whales Campaign Materials:
120,000 Save the Whales flyers
36,700 Reprints of articles
21,000 Bumper stickers
14,000 Petitions
13,000 Buttons
5,000 Posters
1,796 T-shirts

 

Aw I..__ ’__._ ___- A -

 




 

4r,#. 4 M r

Meetings and Exhibits Attended by AWI Representatives

American Veterinary Medical Association Annual Convention, Philadelphia,
Pennsylvania, July 17-19, 1973. .AWl and Humane Society of the United States
exhibit on pet overpopulation.

United States Department of Interior, Washington, D.C., August 29, 1973, Anal-
ysis of Endangered Species Legislation.

New York State Humane Association, Annual Convention, Rochester, New York,
September 8, 1973. Marjorie Cooke spoke.

National Association of Biology Teachers, Annual Convention, St. Louis, Mis-
souri, October 12-14, 1973. AWI and Humane Society of the United States
exhibit featured Campaign to Save the Whales.

United States Animal Health Association, Animal Welfare Committee, St. Louis,
Missouri, October 18, 1973.

Humane Society of the United States, Annual Convention, Atlanta, Georgia,
October 10, 197 3. Christine Stevens spoke on laboratory animals.

National Marine Fisheries Service, Washington, D.C., December 13, 1973, State-
ment on Naval Underseas Center Application for Scientific Research on Dolphins,
Whales, Sea Lions and Seals.

National Science Teachers Association, Annual Convention, Chicago, Illinois
March 15~18, 1974. AWI and Humane Society of the United States exhibit
featuring endangered species of animals.

Non Governmental Organizations, Washington, D.C., May 5, 1974, meeting held
before the United Nations Environmental Program Conference, at Nairobi.

National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Inter-agency planning for
1974 International Whaling Commission Meeting, Washington, D.C., April 4, May
28, and June 12, 1974.

United States Department of Commerce, National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration meetings, Washington, D.C., May 30, 1974, Briefing of Federal
Role in Environmental Matters.

Symposium on Endangered and Threatened Species of North America, Washington,
DC, June 12, 197 4, Christine Stevens spoke on whales.

International Whaling Commission Annual Meeting, London, England, June
24'30, 1974. Christine Stevens spoke for a 10-year international moratorlum on
Whaling, representing Friends of the Earth of the US.

United States Department of Commerce, National Marine Fisheries Service, Wash-
Ington, D.C., series of briefings on Enforcement of Marine Mammal Protection
Act.

Project Monitor, Washington, D.C. Attended weekly meetings.

 




 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
SUMMARY STATEMENT OF FUNCTIONAL SUPPORT, REVENUE
AND EXPENSES AND FUND BALANCE

Year ended June 30, 1974

PUBLIC SUPPORT AND REVENUE

Public Support for Programs and Projects -
Contributions from individuals
Bequests and foundation grants

Revenue:
Membership dues
Sale of publications and other income

Total support and revenue
EXPENSES

Programs and Projects:
Boycott advertisements
Reprints, letters, publications and mailings
Salaries and payroll taxes
Quarterly Information Reports and mailings
First Aid and Care of Small Animals
Special appeal stickers, posters and
merchandise
Postage and stationery
Subscriptions, research and conventions
Annual Report

Schweitzer Medal Award

Supporting Services:
Stationery, postage and machine rentals
Legal and accounting, travel, depreciation
and other

Total Expenses

Net of Public Support and Revenue over Expenses:

Designated by Donors and Directors for
“Save the Whales”
Undesignated - for general protective activities
Less - fund balance (deficit) at beginning
of year

Fund Balance at end of year -
for continuing programs

Regular
Programs and
Projects

$ 66,704.61
60,788.27

10,590.57
2 629.92

____L——

140,713.37

2,741.80
14,835.30
12,577.24

4,200.00

6,035.37
3,921.87
1 174.57

*

45,486.15

774.09

5,060.38

3 254.53

*

54,575.15

86,138.22

(49,171.05)

$ 36,967.17

 

Save the
Whales
Campaign

$ 51,451.87
62,486.25

113,938.12

30,507.44
14,243.91
2,524.00

4,444.07
4,047.44
2,028.75

_—__________——-

57,795.61

1 000.00

_____.L——————

58,795.61

55,142.51

$ 55,142.51
__________.

/

 

 

 




 

A.“ a- #44 -.~ A.

 

 

Information Reports

AWI Information Reports appeared quarterly, and each issue was sent to about 25,000
individuals and groups. In addition to subjects already covered in this Annual Report,
articles appeared on the following: (VOL 22, No. 3) “Hearings and a Stabbing Focus
Attention on Horse Soring”;“Dog Labs Try to Suppress Publication of PrOposed Standards”:
“Synthetic Fur Adopted by Army”; “Jack Davis Saves the Robins in Canada”; and a critical
review of a National Academy of Sciences booklet Nonhuman Primates which is full of dan-
gerous errors and omissions with regard to endangered species of primates. The review con-
cludes: “. . . The scientist who follows this booklet’s guidance will, like as not, try to buy an
endangered species, put it in a small, naked cage, and feed it monkey chow.”

An article by Fay Brisk, “Pets and Laboratory Animals Suffer in Air Transit,” was
featured in Vol. 22, No. 4. Miss Brisk’s article focussed on abuses suffered by pups and
kittens, dogs, cats, rats, and monkeys. In the same Information Report a series of reports
from the U.S. Department of Agriculture on mass suffering and death of livestock tran-
sported by air to foreign countries was published. Other articles included: “Fake Fur Man-
ufacturer Wins Case Against Furriers”: “U.S. A.I.D. Mission to Laos Fights Pet Abandon-
ment”; “Vic Thompson, Major Protagonist in Horse Soring Controversy, Pleads Guilty”;
“U.S. Interior Department Acts Against Illegal Big Game Hunting”; and “Laboratory Animal
Dealer Charged With Multiple Violations.”

“AFL-CIO Votes to Save Whales” was the lead article in Vol. 23, No. l, which also
carried the following: “Lorenz, Von Frisch and Tinbergen Awarded Nobel Prize”; “Orlans in
The Wall Street Journal,” “Four—Fold Increase in A.P.H.I.S. Inspection Load-Enforcement
ofAnimal Welfare Act Penalizes Dealers”;and“AWI Information Report Article Inspires
Book.” The book was Skeezer, Dog With a Mission whose author, Elizabeth Yates McGreal,
says she wrote it because she was intrigued by the fact that Skeezer was serving the cause of
medicine with her life, not by forfeiting it in a laboratory.” Skeezer helps cure young
patients at the Children’s Psychiatric Hospital, University of Michigan.

 

Contributions to the Animal Welfare Institute are deductible in computing
income tax returns, and donations, large or small, are most gratefully accepted
for the general fund or for special purposes. The extension of the Institute’s
much-needed work depends upon such support.

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
Scientific Committee
Marjorie Anchel, Ph.D. Paul Kicrnan, M.D. Samuel Peacock, M.D.
Bennett Derby, M.D. F. Barbara Orlans, Ph.D. 10h“ Walsh, M-D-
Lee R' Dice, Ph'D' International Committee
T.G. Antikatzidcs. D.V.M. — Greece David Ricardo - Canada N. E. Wernberg — Denmark

 

 

 

Major C-W. Hume. O.B.E., B.Sc., M.l. Biol. ~— United Kingdom P. Rousselet-Blanc, D.V. - France
Ofﬁcers
Christine Stevens, President Roger L. Stevens, Treasurer Barbara Gould, Administrative Assistant

Cynthia Wilson, Vice President Marjorie Cooke, Secretary Marilyn Chamberlain, Publications Secretary

 




 




 

TWENTY-FOURTH ANNUAL REPORT
ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

 

 

June 30, 1974 to July 1, 1975

 

. . ‘.v-.Qv
"$03,.\ 0'.
u . a 0

k'o

 




 

 

 

SCHWEITZER CENTENARY

 

Albert Schweitzer’s birth one hundred years ago was marked by celebrations throughout
the world in 1975. For the Animal Welfare Institute it was twenty‘three years since Dr.
Schweitzer gave his permission to name the AWl’s Schweitzer Medal in his honor. He
wrote: “I am profoundly moved that you would like to give my name to the medal you
have created. I give you this right With all my heart. I would never have believed that my
philosophy, which incorporates in our ethics a compassionate attitude toward all
creatures, would be noticed and recognized in my lifetime. I knew this truth would impose
itself one day on human thought, but it is the great and moving surprise of my life that I
should still be able to witness this progress of ethics. Your medal celebrates this progress:

philosophy obliged to intervene for animals when up till now it has shown so little interest
in them.”

On January fourteenth, Dr. Schweitzer’s birthday, the annual award ceremony was held
in the Great Hall of the Smithsonian Institution’s original building, “The Castle.” Russell
Train, Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, presented the Schweitzer
Medal to Lee Talbot, Senior Scientist of the Council of Environmental Quality. As former
Chairman of CEQ, Train spoke from a comprehensive knowledge of the medalist’s
dedication to the preservation of whales, the prevention of mass poisoning programs
directed against predators, and other soundly based battles for wildlife against cruelty and
destruction. Responding, Talbot said in part, “I am convinced that we are closer than we

ever have been to achieving the Schweitzer ethic, and I am proud to be a part of this
noble effort.”

Attacking a number of “sacred cows,” Talbot began with maximum sustainable yield
(MSY), the nearly universal wildlife management rule of thumb. He said, “Ecologically
speaking, MSY cannot work because it does not consider the many factors affecting the
species itself nor the interrelationships between that species and its ecosystem.” Citing
efforts he has made to change the system he said, “The Marine Mammal Protection Act is
the world’s first legislation which states that the objective of management is to ensure that

the species survives in adequate numbers to play its role in maintaining the health and
stability of the ecosystem.”

On public lands he said, “A new philosophy for public lands is needed...these lands are
held in trust for all Americans. Their use by any individual, is a privilege, not a right. . .I do
not regard our traditional academic system as the best route to [a holistic approach to
management of our lands]; I regard it as a powerful obstacle. The traditional university is
divided into water-tight departments. The system of academic awards is based on this
fragmented foundation. While many universities have established interdisciplinary Of

 

 

 




 

 

 

interdepartmental programs, frequently little has been changed but the name. The result
is the continuing production of narrow specialists, rather than well-trained broader
experts with an appreciation for the holistic nature of life and with the capabilities to deal
with it.”

On the citizen’s role in influencing government, the medalist told of a personal
confrontation: “One of my first contacts with the Federal Government was with a Federal
predator control officer who ran his trap and poison lines on private lands, including those
of my family and some neighbors, all of whom valued the existing natural conditions,
including the predators, and deeply resented this Governmental invasion of our rights.
There were no livestock within miles, and this was a gratuitous attempt by this man to
increase his take. Eventually [caught him and during a virorous discussion informed him
that the land owners had decided that if he or his lines were found on, any of our
properties again we would ‘control’ him. He was never seen in the area again.”

 

 

ANTI-WHALING CAMPAIGN

 

The boycott campaign against products from Japan and Russia, who together account for
the harpooning of 80-85% of the whales killed each year, has grown in breadth and
intensity during the year. A total of nearly 100 half and full-page ads have been run in
newspapers throughout the country since the campaign began in February 1974.

253 demonstrations in 156 different places accompanied the newspaper activity. The
result has been the first serious consideration given by a whaling nation to
conservationists’ and humanitarians’ pleas to end the slaughter of the rapidly declining
populations of whales with the cruel explosive harpoon.

At the International Whaling Commission (IWC) meeting in London, June 23-28, the
first substantial quota reduction ever voted by that body took place. Some 8,500 less
whales may be killed next year by the nations which adhere to the IWC. Yet the quotas
allow 32,537 of these great creatures which are still swimming in the oceans of the world,
to be legally slaughtered with-in the year - and this despite the 53-0 vote at the Stockholm
Conference on the Human Environment and subsequent similar United Nations votes for
a ten-year international moratorium on the commercial killing of whales. Far from this
goal, nevertheless the U.S.S.R. announced at the opening of the IWC that it was
dropping one of its fleets from the coming antarctic whaling expedition. Although Japan
has dropped no fleets, its massive news media have taken up the subject which
heretofore has been glossed over as a result of Japan Whaling Commission pressure.

The Japan Broadcasting Corporation ran a 30-minute documentary in June on the
boycott activities of US. conservation and humane groups and the hearings in the US.
Congress on bills to embargo whaling company products.

Secretary of Commerce Rogers Morton received a delegation of representatives from the
Animal Welfare Institute, Friends of the Earth, Rare Animal Relief Effort, National
Wildlife Federation, Sierra Club, and Defenders of Wildlife, at a press conference at

 

 




 

 

which the Secretary expressed his active concern for the preservation of whales. It was
filmed by the Japan Broadcasting Corporation as were hearings held by Congressman
Robert Leggett on bills to invoke an embargo against commercial whalers, a meeting of
Monitor, lnc., a demonstration organized by the Sierra Club and Rare Animal Relief
Effort at which Japanese products made by Sony and Honda were dumped in the East
River in imitation of theBoston Tea Party, presentation of petitions bearing over 200,000
signatures to the Japanese Embassy, and an interview with the President of AWI.

Japan’s largest newspaper, The Asahi Shimbun, focussed on the boycott with feature
articles and photographs prior to the state visit of the Emperor of Japan to the United
States.

Thus, international impact has been achieved through the boycott campaign coordinated
by the AWl with the backing of the major conservation and humane organizations of the
United States: Friends of the Earth, the Fund for Animals, Environmental Action,
Defenders of Wildlife, Environmental Policy Center, The Wilderness Society, Rare
Animal Relief Effort, New York Zoological Society, Society for Animal Protective
Legislation, Center for Science in the Public Interest, Explorers Club Environment
Committee, National Parks and Conservation Association, Humane Society of the
United States, Environmental Defense Fund, Sierra Club, National Wildlife Federation,
National Audubon Society, Izaak Walton League, and the Oceanic Society.

The coming year will require a continuing intensive increase in the pressure to achieve an
internatiOnal moratorium on commercial whaling, so that the whales may continue to
play the integral role in the ecosystem which they have taken for millions of years.

 

PERSECUTION OF DOLPHINS

 

Though outlawed by the Marine Mammal Protection Act of 1972, the “incidental”
entrapment of dolphins in tuna purse seines continues at a hideous pace. The AWI joined
with the Environmental Defense Fund and nine other conservation and humane groups
in suing the US. Government to force the National Marine Fisheries Service to
promulgate effective regulations to stop the cruel killing which causes such ghastly pain
and fear among these friendly and highly developed mammals.

At the Public Hearing, December 10, 1974, on amendments to the regulations under the
Marine Mammal Protection Act, “Encircling Gear, Yellowfin Tuna Purse Seining,” the
President of the AWI stated, “The plain fact is that setting on porpoise as currently
practiced is inherently cruel. Research and development should be addressed not merely
to reducing the numbers of dead animals actually caught in the net, but to ending the
harassment of the dolphins altogether.”

The AWI contributed to the cost of production of a film by the Environmental Defense
Fund showing the decimation of the dolphins in the purse seines. The film will be
available for both television and private showing.

Major action is expected in the coming year on this intolerable cruelty in which panicking
dolphins run into the net, tearing flippers so the blood flows and sharks attack them.
Many drown; others go through the power block in which the net is gathered and are
crushed; abortions are commonly noted, infants and mothers struggle to stay together
and often die together when they cannot help each other. All this mayhem is for the
benefit of canning companies and other vested interests enabling them to make more
money.

 

 

 




 

 

AJrnv Ads

 

 

 

LABORATORY ANIMALS

 

It was the unrelieved plight of laboratory animals that brought about the founding of the
Animal Welfare Institute in 1951. Since that time, every member of the American
Federation of Societies for Experimental Biology has received the quarterly AWI
Information Reports as have other animal experimenters. Millions of pieces of well
documented AWI educational materials have been dispatched to those most directly
involved with these animals. In the early years, the AWI’s efforts were vigorously
rebuffed. A quarter of a century later, however, the results of persistence are beginning to
become apparent as the scientific community moves away from flat opposition to AWI
humane principles to a decision to put the AWI position before the members of scientific
organizations using laboratory animals.

Invitations to AWI for speakers at meetings, symposia and workshops on laboratory
animals during this year came from the National Academy of Sciences, The American
Association for Laboratory Animal Science, The International Committee on Laboratory
Animals and the American Veterinary Medical Association. All invitations were accepted,
and the rights of experimental animals were stated clearly and firmly. Excerpts from two
of the speeches are given below.

“Too many laboratories resemble prisons with their combination of over—crowding of
some and isolation of other inmates, their bad food, inferior sanitation and unsympathetic
and sometimes brutal caretakers...We know from countless experiments on isolation
stress that solitary confinement for the large majority of warm—blooded animals is
unbiological. We know that the wild ancestors of canis familiaris, the dog, were social
pack animals adapted to running long distances to capture prey, yet, with a degree of
stubborn defiance of the obvious which will surely be looked back upon with amazement
and disgust, a segment of the scientific community has fought almost a decade against a
regulation to require institutions that maintain their experimental dogs in cages to let them
out once a day.!”
(from a paper given at the National Academyof Sciences, March 12, 1975)

“Alternative methods of research represent an important new wave. It is a wave which
complements the demand for serious consideration Of laboratory animals as individuals.
Just as the days of unlimited funding for research using animals are gone, so are the days
when automatic ordering of large numbers of animals is acceptable. Dr. Schweitzer told
his fellow M.D.’s that they should consider in every single instance whether the sacrifice of
an animal was really necessary. His words then were largely unheeded because he was
ahead of his time. But now his words have a different ring...” (from a paper given at the
American Association for Laboratory Animal Science Symposium on Carnivores,
June 5, 1975)

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

PUBLICATIONS

 

This year a new leaflet in full color showing the agony undergone by animals caught in the
leghold trap was printed in cooperation with a number of other humane organizations in
the United States and abroad. The color separations were very kindly provided by the
European Committee for the Protection of Seals and Other Furbearing Animals which
assisted with translation (the leaflet was previously available only in French, German and
Dutch) and adaptation was shared by the AWI, The Society for Animal ProtectiVe
Legislation, the Animal Welfare Foundation of Canada, the Fund for Animals who
together with Defenders of Wildlife, Humane Information Services, and International
Sportsmen’s Committee shared a press run of 500,000 copies bringing the cost per copy
within range of the organizations’ tight budgets. Leaflets in full natural color have never
before been used in North America to demonstrate the intolerable cruelty of the leghold
trap.

A new listing of educational materials available from the AWI was issued memorializing
the Albert Schweitzer Centenary.

With a new foreword by Dr. Francis Mulhern, Administrator of the Animal and Plant
Health Inspection Service of the US. Department of Agriculture, Animal Expressions,
the AWI’s photographic footnote to Charles Darwin’s The Expression of the Emotions in
Man and Animals was republished this year. In his foreword, Dr. Mulhern wrote,
“. . .when I took another look'at some of the expressions of animals in this book, it were as
if I heard them also plead for realization of their legal rights today. I looked at images of
fear, anger, and hate and felt them as accusations that we humans are responsible for
many of the conditions that bring about animal expressions such as these. We should
place ourselves, at least mentally, in the environment that these animals find
themselves...”

Preparation of the third edition of Animals and Their Legal Rights, the AWI paperback
which has become the standard work on laws affecting animals in the United States, is
underway with publication expected within the year. The five-year period since the
second edition appeared in 1970 has been an active one in the field of animal protective
legislation at both state and federal levels. A major revision has therefore been necessary
to bring this reference book, the only single source for the material it contains, up to date.

Revisions are also underway in preparation of the sixth edition of Basic Care of
Experimental Animals and the second edition of Humane Biology Projects.

Publications distributed during the course of the year are listed below:

0 1,079 copies of Facts About Furs, 106 pages of information on the way furs are
obtained throughout the world, by F. Jean Vinter, MD.

0 1,930 copies of Animal Expressions, with 106 photographs illustrating the concepts
of Charles Darwin’s “Expression of the Emotions in Man and Animals.”

0 181 copies of Animals and Their Legal Rights, 216-page paperback by Emily Stewart
Leavitt and other authors.




Manuals distributed to scientific institutions at their request:

0 400 copies of Basic Care of Experimental Animals, 78-page manual for animal
caretakers, Spanish edition —- 99 copies.

0 277 copies of Comfortable Quarters for Laboratory Animals, 103~page collection of
floor plans, construction details and equipment.

0 21 copies of The Principles of Humane Experimental Technique, by Russell and
Burch.

Manuals distributed to teachers at their request:
0 2,666 copies of First Aid and Care of Small Animals, 46-page illustrated manual.

0 1,510 copies of Humane Biology Projects, 41-page illustrated manual.

Reprints and statements distributed to high school teachers:

0 342 copies of “Attitudes Toward Animals,” by Christine Stevens, reprinted from The
American Biology Teacher, February, 1970.

0 425 copies of “Better Nutrition Studies,” by F. Barbara Orlans, Ph.D., reprinted from
The American Biology Teacher, November, 1970.

0 104 copies of “Painless Animal Experimentation,” by F. Barbara Orlans, Ph.D.,
reprinted from Scholastic Teacher, April, 1970.

0 1,399 copies of “Rules Governing Treatment of Animals by High School Biology
Students and Reasons why Animal Experiments by High School Students Should be
Painless.

' 97 copies of “High School Science Coordinator Devises System to Prevent Cruel or
Hazardous Science Fair Projects,” by William Dunkum, Coordinator for Mathematics and
Science, Alexandria City Public Schools, Alexandria, Virginia.

Leaflets distributed for the elementary grades included:

0 425 copies of “Kittens and Cats”.

0 744 copies of “You and Your Dog”.

' 972 copies of “Good Kind Lion”.

° 584 copies of “Befriending Animals,” reprinted from Childhood Education
Approximately 10,000 miscellaneous leaflets were distributed.

Save the Whales Campaign Materials:

284,000 Save the Whales flyers
74,000 Reprints of articles
70,000 Bumper stickers
41,000 Petitions

80,500 Buttons

20,000 Posters

3,696 T-shirts

 

 

 




 

 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

 

STATEMENT OF FUNCTIONAL SUPPORT, REVENUE AND EXPENSES

AND CHANGE IN FUND BALANCES

 

YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 1975

 

PUBLIC SUPPORT AND REVENUE:

Public Support for Programs and Projects:
Contributions from members and individuals
Public contributions through newspaper appeal
Bequests and foundations
Sales of special promotion materials
Friends of the Earth

Total public support
Revenue:
Membership dues
Interest, dividends and security
Sales of publications, reprints and educational materials

Total public support and revenue

EXPENSES:
Programs and Projects:
Newspaper appeals
Reprints, publications, ﬁlms and letters
Postage, mailing and plate costs
Salaries and payroll taxes— Note B
Promotion materials, banners and posters
Quarterly information reports
Animal Expressions
AWI exhibits at conventions
Grants:
Endangered Species Publications for whale manual
Other
Memberships and Contributions:
Monitor Incorporated
Institute of Laboratory Animal Resources —
sponsorship of symposium
Stationery, subscriptions and other expense

Total programs and projects
Schweitzer Medal Award/ Annual meeting

Supporting Services
Salaries and payroll taxes
Postage, stationery and machine rentals
Legal and accounting services
Utilities and miscellaneous expense
Travel expense
Depreciation of furniture and ﬁxtures

Total supporting services ‘
Total expenses

Net of Expenses over Public Support and Revenue Fund
balances at beginning of year

Fund balances at end of year— for general and
special protective activities — Notes B and C

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Programs Save the
and Whales
Projects Campaign Combined
$22,308.45 35 48,722.42 $ 71,030.87
52,714.87 52,714.87
16,135.80 16,135.80
13,022.61 13,022.61
,_.__63i§9 #325332
38,444.25 115,095.70 153,539.95
10,979.45 10,979.45
2,787.73 2,787.73
358.16 358.16
52,569.59 115,095.70 167,665.29
68,822.44 68,822.44
983.80 16,438.33 17,422.13
3,268.41 13,743.63 17,012.04
3,750.31 1,354.66 5,104.97
27,014.24 27,014.24
16,319.92 16,319.92
3,238.16 3,238.16
1,844.56 1,844.56
2,500.00 2,500.00
600.00 600.00
1,500.00 1,500.00 3,000.00
2,000.00 2,000.00
5,197.14 7,265.03 12,462.17
38,102.30 139,238.33 M
2,700.40 2,700.40
14,531.76 12,191.95 26,723.71
5,705.61 5,705.61
1,000.00 1,866.54 2,866.54
2,093.35 208.71 2,302.06
1,350.39 1,350.39
432.80 103.70 536.50
25,113.91 14,370.90 39,484.81
65,916.61 153,609.23 219,525.84
(13,347.02) ( 38,513.53) ( 51,860.55)
36,967.17 55,142.51 92,109.68
$23,620.15 $ 16,628.98 $ 40,249.13

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

INFORMATION REPORTS

 

Articles on subjects other than those already covered in this report include “South
African Seals Whimper and Squeal in Agony - Dent Denies Import Permit for Skins”
describing the horrors of the South African seal kill and the invoking of the Marine
Mammal Protection Act prohibiting entry of the seal skins into the United States (Vol. 23,
No. 3). In the same issue a detailed account of the World Congress for Animal Protection
held in Strasbourg, France, appeared telling of the European Convention for the
Protection of Animals During International Transport which is now open to accession by
non—member non—European States, of the work to end the worst abuses of factory
farming, of the film showing the cruel netting of song birds for commercial purposes, of
laws regulating animal experimentation, and efforts to protect wild animals. Also included
in this Information Report were announcements of meetings scheduled in Greece of the
World Veterinary Congress and the International Committee on Laboratory Animals, the
promulgation of proposed regulations under the Federal Animal Welfare Act to require
release from cages of laboratory dogs, a report on an AWI Scientific Committee meeting,
and a statement made by Senator Warren Magnuson under the heading, “Magnuson,
Foley Urge Animal Transport Reforms, Abolition of Sadistic Animals Fights.” He said,
“The need for national legislation to protect animals in transit has been proven during
hearings conducted by several congressional subcommittees...For instance, a recent
shipment" of laboratory mice bound for NIH, having survived the plane ride, was
subsequently roasted to death when the crates in which they were shipped were left out
on the airport runway under the blazing sun for several hours. . . .The ‘Animal Welfare Act
Amendments of 1974’ which I introduce today, will rectify this situation.”

In Vol. 23, No. 4, a long article, “Destruction of the Dolphins,” based on a 161 page draft
report from the Southwest Fisheries Center of the Commerce Department’s National
Marine Fisheries Service, tells how dolphins suffer in the chases to which they are
subjected by tuna fishermen and how they die in the giant purse seines in which they
become entangled. The same issue quotes the British Veterinary Record on new
prohibitions against routine mutilation of farm animals: tail docking of cattle, surgical
castration of poultry, dewinging of poultry and fitting blinkers to birds by mutilating the
nasal septum. Passage of strengthening amendments to the Horse Protection Act was
reported in the same issue.

“US. Government Challenged in Court on Dolphin Decimation” was the title of the lead
article in Information Report Vol. 24, No. 1. Another major article, “Blackbird
Massacre,” protested the aerial spraying of Tergitol in an effort by the U.S.Army to kill
millions of the birds by exposure to cold after the protective oils in their feathers have been
destroyed by the powerful detergent.

“Scientist Explains Why Whalers Can Make More Money by Killing Whales to Extinction”
described Dr. Colin W. Clark’s mathematical analysis of the ‘discount’ rate” which makes

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

it unprofitable for commercial whalers to spare the goose that lays the golden eggs (Vol.
24, No. 2). In the same issue announcement of a symposium which the AWI took part in
planning appeared under the heading, “National Academy of Sciences Tackles Thorny
Issue - A Review of Research Methods Involving Animals, Tissue Cultures, Computer
Simulation, and Other Alternatives.” New directives by the Animal and Plant Health
Inspection Service concerning requirements for reporting on the use of pain-relieving
drugs by research facilities under the Animal Welfare Act were quoted extensively in this
information Report as were regulations proposed by the US. Public Health Service to
ban importation of primates for the pet trade. Among the Elephants by Iain and Oria
Douglas-Hamilton was reviewed.

A report on Russian fishermen coming to the assistance of a baby dolphin at the insistance
of a school of dolphins appeared in this issue together with a report of dolphins
accompanying an exhausted long-distance swimmer through shark-infested waters. An
Austrian invention to prevent wildlife from crossing highways at night by erecting glass
reflectors that simulate threatening eyes when headlights illuminate them was described.
A shocking report on activities of “Great Adventure, Inc.” the $35 million New Jersey
safari park where six endangered Bengal tigers died concluded this Information Report.

 

MEETINGS ATTENDED AND EXHIBITS
PRESENTED BY AWI REPRESENTATIVES

 

American Veterinary Medical Association, Annual Convention, Denver, Colorado, July
23-25, 1974. AWI exhibit on “Suffering and Death Inflicted on Animals in Air
Transport.”

World Federation for the Protection of Animals, Quadrennial Congress, Strasbourg,
France, September 10-14, 1974. AWI President spoke on “Animals in Laboratories
Throughout the World.”

National Association of Biology Teachers, Annual Convention, New York City, October
12—14, 1974. AWI exhibit on endangered species.

United States Animal Health Association, Annual Convention, Roanoke, Virginia,
October 16, 1974. Attended the Animal Welfare Committee meeting.

Threatened and Endangered Species of North America Symposium, Sponsored by the

Wild Canid Survival and Research Center Wolf Sanctuary, St. Louis, Missouri, October
16, 1974.

National Science Teachers Association, Annual Convention, Washington, DC,
November 21-23, 1974. AWI exhibit on alternatives to laboratory animals. A workshop

by Dr. Barbara Orlans (AWI Scientific Advisory Committee member) on “BiOIOQV
Students as Experimental Subjects.”

AWI Annual Meeting, Washington, DC, January 14, 1975. Presentation of the 1974
Schweitzer Medal.

American Association for the Advancement of Science, Annual Convention, New York
City, January 26-31, 1975.

Hoosier State Science Teachers, Annual COnvention, Indianapolis, Indiana, February
14—15, 1975. Janet Keyes (Whale Campaign Secretary) spoke on “Programs of the

Animal Welfare Institute,” had an exhibit and held a workshop on “Biology Students as
Experimental Subjects.”

 

 




 

Planning Committee for National Academy of Sciences Symposium on The Future of
Animals, Cells, Models, and Systems in Research, Development, Education, and
Testing, Washington, DC. December 3, 1974 and February 19, 1975.

Council on Environmental Qu’ality,Washington, D.C. February 26, 1975. Briefing by
Chairman Russell Peterson.

United States Department of Interior, Washington, DC, February 28, 1975. Fish and
Wildlife Service briefing.

Committee on Humane Methods of Whale Killing, U.S. Delegation to the International
Whaling Commission, Washington, DC, March 11, 1975.

National Academy of Sciences Symposium on “Animal Models of Thrombosis and
Hemorrhagic Diseases, Washington, DC, March 12—13, 1975. AWI President spoke on
“Humane Considerations for Animal Models.”

National Marine Fisheries Service, Marine Mammal Protection Act and Endangered
Species Act reporting, Washington, DC, March 11, May 2, May 5, 1975.

Non Governmental Organizations, Washington, DC, March 20, April 16, April 23,
1975, meetings held before and during the United Nations Environmental Program
Conference at Nairobi.

Meeting of AWl Scientific Advisory Committee, Washington, DC, April 15, 1974.

Ontario Humane Society, Annual General Meeting, Ontario, Canada, May 29, '1975.
AWl President spoke on “The Protection of the Whales of the World.”

American Association for Laboratory Animal Science, Metropolitan New York and
Delaware Valley Branch, Symposium on Carnivores, East Brunswick, New Jersey, June
5-6, 1975. AWI President spoke on “Care and Treatment of Laboratory Dogs and Cats.”

International Whaling Commission, Annual Meeting, London, England, June 23-28,
1975. Remarks by AWI President, representing Friends of the Earth of the United States.

Attorney General of New York State, meetings on animal welfare, New York, February
11, March 4, April 8, May 6, June 10, 1975.

Project Monitor, Washington, DC. Attended weekly meetings.

 

Contributions to the Animal Welfare Institute are deductible in computing income tax
returns, and donations, large or small, are most gratefully accepted for the general fund
or for special purposes. The extension of the lnstitute’s much-needed work depends
upon such support.

 

 




 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

 

Scientific Committee

Marjorie Anchel, Ph.D.
Bennett Derby, M.D.
Lee R. Dice, Ph.D.

Paul Kiernan, M.D.

F. Barbara Orlans, Ph.D.
Samuel Peacock, MD.
John Walsh, M.D.

 

International Committee

Major C. W. Hume, O.B.E., M.C., B.Sc., M.I. Biol. (United Kingdom)
T. G. Antikatzides, D.V.M. (Greece)

David Ricardo (Canada)

N. E. Wernberg (Denmark)

 

Officers

Christine Stevens, President
Cynthia Wilson, Vice-President
Marjorie Cooke, Sacretary

Roger L. Stevens, Treasurer

Adele Schoepperle, Assistant Treasurer
Marilyn Chamberlain, Publications Secretary
Kristina Harper, Administrative Assistant
Janet Keyes, Whale Campaign Secretary

Design & Cover Art:
Cachalot Design Group/Marblehead, Massachusetts Printed in USA.

 




 

TWENTY-FIFTH ANNUAL REPORT

 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

 

June 30, 1975 to July 1, 1976

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

INTRODUCING NEW AWI SYMBOL & GRAPHICS

 

The new AWI Symbol appears on the front cover of this annual report. It was designed
for us by Robert J. Benson and Cachalot Design Group of Marblehead, Massachusetts.

The new symbol has been incorporated into a complete new graphic system for AWI.
This has been an ongoing process, between AWI and Cachalot, since 1975. The design
group is currently redesigning the entire “Save the Whales” project in order to institute a
visual continuity and maintain a high graphic standard for all AWI programs.

AWI Symbol: represents animals in their apprOpriate, life—sustaining environments of
land, air and water enclosed in interlocking hexagons [symbolic of bee architecture].

 

SUBSTITUTES FOR LABORATORY ANIMALS

 

The National Academy of Sciences recognized the importance of substitutes ——
alternatives to laboratory animals —— in organizing a symposium to discuss “Animals,
Cells, 'Models and Systems in Research, Development, Education and Testing”, October
22—23, 1975. The Animal Welfare Institute was the only animal protective organization to
have a representative appointed as a full-fledged member of the organizing committee.
The Animal Welfare Institute is also the only organization to be attacked in an editorial in
Federation Proceedings (The Proceedings of the Federation of American Societies for
Experimental Biology). By speaking out strongly for laboratory animals within scientific
forums the AWI reaches the ears of those most directly concerned.

The symposium is scheduled to be published as a monograph (February, 1977),

making it possible for the subject to be examined by animal welfare workers and scientists
alike.

The International Committee on Laboratory Animals (ICLA) which holds a conference
every four years met in Athens, Greece July 9—11, 1975. Several speakers, including the
President of the Animal Welfare Institute, focussed on the importance of finding and
using substitutes for laboratory animals and for reducing the numbers of animals used
when no substitutes are available. The conference was outstanding among all previous
ICLA meetings in the amount of attention focussed on the welfare and protection of
animals (see Information Report, Vol. 24, No. 3). Dr. T. G. Antikatzides, AWI Scientific
Advisor from Greece, played a major role in the planning and conduct of the conference.
The AWI drew a barb from the sharp pen of Peter Singer, author of the crusading book,
“Animal Liberation”, for rubbing shoulders with animal experimenters in this way. AWI
applauds Singer’s aggressive exposés of mistreatment of animals in intensive farming and

laboratories but did not accede to his demand that it disown efforts to work with ICLA to
help laboratory animals.

.Tending to corroborate Singer’s cynical view of ICLA is the fact that except for the
briefest ofabstracts the entire program dealing with care of laboratory animals and means
of improvmg their lot and reducing their use went unpublished in contradiction to ICLA’s

original pjlans. That part of the program dealing with breeding of laboratory animals was
pu is e .

 

 




 

4——» m9»

 

 

 

ANIMAL RIGHTS IN THE COURTS

 

The Animal Welfare Institute joined with other humane and environmental groups in
three lawsuits during the last year to obtain justice for animals. We went to court in behalf
of dolphins, seals and wolves, all cruelly and unnecessarily persecuted.

A major victory was achieved when Judge Richey on May 11th decreed that tuna
purse seiners must stop setting on dolphins until the requirements of the Marine Mammal
Protection Act were met. This major victory immediately met with a violent backlash in all
three divisions of government. Congressman Robert Leggett (D., Calif.) instantly
introduced, immediately held hearings on, and within nine days reported out of his
subcommittee, a bill to reverse the judge’s decision by undermining the Marine Mammal
Protection Act’s provisions on dolphins. The executive branch, equally eager to protect
business, rushed into court and successfully enlisting the judiciary, obtained a stay of
Judge Richey’s scholarly decision. The dolphin slaughter continued as usual through the
period covered by this report.

Nevertheless, Judge Richey’s decision is one that is unlikely to be forgotten in the
annals of animal protection, and however it may be battered and twisted, it is clearly
stated and obviously right. The judge said in the most widely quoted passage of his
34-page decision: “Steps which ensure the protection and conservation of our natural
environment must, almost inevitably, impose temporary hardships on those commercial
interests which have long benefited by exploiting that environment. The people of this
country, speaking through their Congress, declared that porpoises and other marine
mammals must be protected from the harmful and possibly irreversible effects of man’s
activities. It is the obligation and intention of this court to honor that declaration.”

The Cape fur seals’ turn in court revolved in a substantial degree around a different
international issue —— that of the question of recognizing Namibia. In the end, the decision
of the judge was to deny entry to 50,000 fur seal skins from Namibia, the number which
may be imported by the Fouke Company of Greenville, South Carolina from South
Africa has not yet been resolved in the Federal courts. South Africa claims that it would
kill fur seals even if their fur were worthless in order to keep them from eating fish.
Nevertheless, a botched and wholly inadequate gesture was made toward improving the
horrific methods of killing the young seals which drew international publicity last year (see
“South African Seals Whimper and Squeal in Agony,” AWI Information Report, Vol.
23 No. 3). Three Aleuts were sent from the Pribilof Islands to instruct the South African
seal killers in methods of instant stunning and efficient killing of fur seals. Their
instructions, while not totally in vain, met with only a very modest degree of success, as
blow after blow had to be inflicted on young seals trying desperately to climb over the
dead bodies of their fellows and vomiting milk (the Marine Mammal Protection Act
specifies that the fur of nursing seals may not be imported into the United States, but
some Philadelphia lawyers have introduced the concept of “obligate” and “non obligate”
nursing to try to get round the law Congress passed). The lawsuits have helped the seals,
but have not succeeded as yet in obtaining honest enforcement of the Act.

 




 

 

 

 

Wolves in Alaska were attacked by the State Department of Natural Resources (DNR)
whose wildlife biologists took to the air and pulled the triggers themselves in a sneak
attack on the wolves in the Tanana flats where they managed to gun down fifty
(conveniently guided by the radio tags they had affixed to wolves in different packs months
before). The program was slowed down when two helicopters came to grief at an
estimated cost of $80,000 each. One of the DNR’s main biologists, John Vania, did not
notify conservationists although they understood he had promised to tell them of any final
decision to kill wolves. Reports indicate that he himself pulled the trigger on a number of
wolves.

The US. Department of the Interior supplied funds which were used for the
“program.” A hasty stop was put to this particular monetary flow when it became obvious
that, at the very least, an environmental impact statement should have been filed before
such an action was taken. However, the court denied the move of humane and
environmental groups, including the AWI, to enjoin the wolf slaughter. The ruling is being
appealed.

’J, Q

,,I ' ~ \- _’
"i xvi-tin“ "ii , W) 7
. ‘,. ~\- {UNI -' - .
. ‘1‘ ‘9 §f&j\ ‘J \. >:\
r '11. ‘- v r." .u‘\ I g?
. . .- g; f, ., .

    

 

CARE DESIGNED TO HELP THE EXPERIMENTAL ANIMAL

 

Speaking at the annual convention of the American Veterinary Medical Association,
Dr. Marjorie Anchel represented the AWI with a paper entitled “Beyond Adequate
Veterinary Care”. Dr. Anchel, Senior Research Scientist and administrator of the
laboratory at the New York Botanical Gardens, has served on the AWI’s Scientific
Advisory Committee. She also plays an active role in the New York Attorney General’s
Committee on Animal Welfare.

Focus of the AVMA Symposium was on the meaning of “adequate veterinary care” for
laboratory animals required under the Federal Animal Welfare Act. Looking back over
the years before this law was enacted, Dr. Anchel noted:

“It is true that many, if not most, laboratories had a set of regulations on animal care
posted on the wall, to which about as much attention was paid as to the No Smoking
signs posted there by the Fire Department.

“The idea of outside interference or policing was anathema to most experimenters —
or perhaps, more accurately, to those whose views on the subject could be heard. I add
this qualification because in the early 1960’s it was essentially impossible for a scientist to
have a letter favoring outside regulation published in any scientific journal. And
publications in the public press would most often risk the wrath, and even the retaliation
of administrators. This symposium testifies to the fact that the climate is changing.”

Emphasizing the stated intent of the Act, she said: '

“The Animal Welfare Act...explicitly states as its purpose, ...to insure that certain
animals intended for use in research facilities are provided humane care and treatment.

 

‘ ‘WWW ‘ k

 

 




 

 

 

 

The regulations promulgated by the Department of Agriculture are to implement this
purpose. The term adequate veterinary care in this context, must be interpreted as care
designed to insure humane treatment of experimental animals. It does not mean care
designed to help society, or the experimenter, or even to promote research. IT MEANS
CARE DESIGNED TO HELP THE EXPERIMENTAL ANIMAL.

“I believe that many veterinarians will welcome the opportunity, provided by the
mandate of this Act, to be of such help to laboratory animals. But, it is quite true that the
veterinarian, hired as he is by the institution, and not by the animals, often will find
himself in a delicate position.”

“...regardless of the particular situation that applies, the veterinarian must have the
courage —— and it will require courage —-— to insist on standards that are absolute, not
relative to the pressures from within any institution. These standards should be high ——
sufficiently high so that CARE OF THE LABORATORY ANIMAL WILL COMPARE
FAVORABLY WITH THAT ACCORDED THE OWNED ANIMAL, IN THE BEST
VETERINARY PRACTICE.”

Dr. Anchel’s analysis of the basic needs of laboratory animals is enlightening.

“A competent and concerned physician recognizes that adequate medical care includes
attention not only to the physical health, but also to the emotional well-being of his
patient. With laboratory animals there has been a tendency to define the adequacy of
care purely in terms of its effects on physical health. Humane care and treatment, in the
spirit of the Animal Welfare Act, surely includes the maintenance of a healthy emotional
state, and increasing attention is being paid to this aspect.

“Unfortunately, this attention is expressed, in large part, in work devoted to supposed
biochemical manifestations of emotional well—being. I do not think that these
measurements are relevant. Happiness or unhappiness cannot be determined by
measurement of urinary ketosteroids. But it can be perceived by all sensitive human
beings. In other words, for dogs, the UP AND DOWN OF URINARY KETOSTEROIDS
IS OF LESS IMPORTANCE THAN THE LEFT AND RIGHT SWING OF THE TAIL.”

Commenting on a report by a committee of the Institute of Laboratory Animal
Resources on the United States Department of Agriculture’s proposal for giving caged
dogs opportunity for exercise outside the cage, Dr. Anchel quotes the ILAR report:

“ ‘...the lack of opportunity to defecate over a period of several'days has not caused
demonstrable adverse physiological effects on the animal observed!”

“It may be that this is true. It also may be, that we are not smart enough to get the
evidence, or to be perfectly frank, that we are not trying to get the evidence. However,
these animals are used to obtain data that may be applied to man. If this extrapolation is
of any value whatsoever, then it must apply in reverse. And it is very clear how one’s well
being is affected by not having the opportunity to defecate for several days. I must repeat,
that what we are concerned with is the well being of the animal, insofar as we can
ascertain it, and not with demonstrable adverse physiological effects.”

Reprints of the tables on the use of Pre— and Post-operative Analgesics in Experimental
Animal Medicine prepared by veterinarians of the Canadian Council on Animal Care
(CCAC) were made available in quantity at the symposium by Dr. Anchel. She cited an
important paragraph from CCAC’s Guide, “Care of Experimental Animals, A Guide For
Canada”:

“It is common practice in clinical veterinary medicine to use analgesic drugs before and
after surgical anesthesia. The purpose of these drugs is to reduce the sensibility of the
animal and hasten induction of anesthesia, as well as to cause a smooth recovery. It
seems that these drugs should be used more than they are in experimental medicine and
surgery. Some of these drugs alter the physiologic response of the animal to stimulus.
Therefore, the pharmacologic action as well as the investigator’s experimental design
must be understood. Carefully chosen analgesic drugs before and after surgery relieve
pain, fear, and shock, thereby aiding in the humane handling of animals as well as
reducing surgical risk. It is indeed true that good scientific technique and humane
treatment are so closely allied that they are inseparable.”

 

 




 

 

 

 

CAMPAIGN TO SAVE THE WHALES

 

Climax of this year’s efforts to stop commercial killing of whales came as the Emperor
of Japan made his official visit to the White House. As reported in The Washington Star,
October 3, 1975, under the heading, “Terribly, Terribly Polite...But a Whale of a
Protest”,

“The lawn was rain lush green and the sun pushing through overcast skies as Hirohito,
the 124th emperor of Japan and the first of his line to visit the continental United States,
alighted from his limousine at the White House South Portico and President Ford walked
forward to shake hands. Suddenly a loud buzz pierced the decorous calm, and a tiny
plane trailing a IOU-foot long banner flew through the northern sky. ‘Emperor Hirohito
Please Save the Whales’ said the banner.

The message from the Animal Welfare Institute, a leader in the fight to preserve the
world’s dwindling whale population, was one of a surprisingly few unanticipated events to
challenge security forces during the Emperor’s first day in Washington...The tiny plane
never flew closer than three blocks north of the White House and did not violate its air
space according to the Federal Aviation Administration.”

Demonstrations asking the Emperor’s help were held in most of the cities that he
visited.

Prime Minister Miki, during his August visit to the United States, had been presented
with a petition signed by 27 environmental and humane groups asking for an end to
commercial whaling by Japan and requesting assurance that excess whaling ships not be
sold or transferred for future whaling. Many questions about whaling were addressed to
the Prime Minister at the National Press Club Luncheon in his honor, August 6th. Since
he failed to respond to the points raised, demonstrators held signs aloft as he departed
from Washington and again when he visited New York.

Demonstrations were continued throughout the year in the United States and at the
opening of the International Whaling Commission meeting in London. June let, some
hundred demonstrators spread long banners down the Strand in front of the Waldorf
Hotel as the Commissioners entered. A plastic whale was realistically harpooned before a

bank of television cameras by Friends of the Earth representatives dressed as Russian and
Japanese harpooners.

On the same day, a half—page ad in The London Times sponsored by the Animal

Welfare Institute and Rare Animal Relief Effort called for a boycott of Japanese and
Russian goods until these nations agree to a ten-year moratorium on commercial
whaling. Other ads taken by the Animal Welfare Institute during the year, in order of
appearance, were: The Washington Post,- Parade magazine (Modesto, Oakland,
Sacramento, San Jose, and Santa Rosa, California); The Wall Street Journal (Pacific
Coast); The San Francisco Bay Guardian; High Country News; Not Man Apart (three
separate ads run at different times); The Los Angeles Times (two separate ads run at
different times); B’nai B’rith (Los Angeles); Parade (Honolulu); The Tacoma News
Tribune; Parade (Ft. Lauderdale, Jacksonville, Orlando, St. Petersburg, Tallahassee,
and West Palm Beach, Florida); The Sierra Club Bulletin (two separate ads run at
different times); Parade (21 cities on the West Coast); Parade (Tucson, Salt Lake City,
and Honolulu); Indiana Daily Student; The Stanford Daily; The Harvard Crimson;
Parade (Chicago, Peoria, Rockford, and St. Paul); Parade (Houston); The Miami

ll




ll

Herald; Moneysworth; The Colorado Daily (University of Colorado, Boulder); The
University of Washington Daily; Parade (Boston); National Parks and Conservation
Association magazine; and Parade (St. Louis).

Governor of Colorado, Richard Lamm, proclaimed Save the Whales Week, March
7-13, 1976, calling upon all citizens of Colorado to “refrain from purchasing Japanese
and Russian goods and services until these countries agree to stop whaling.”

Measurable results are beginning to appear as a result of the intensive campaign. The
Soviet Union dropped one of its three whaling fleets, The Uri Dolgoruki, from the
Antarctic Voyage this year. Japan reduced personnel engaged in whaling from 3,000 to
1,500 and dropped 11 of the industry’s 34 whaling vessels.

New Zealand banned importation of all whale products this year, and France has
announced that legislation is in preparation to do so.

Quotas were cut by approximately 5,000 at this year’s meeting of the International
Whaling Commission. Heaviest cuts were in the sperm whale quotas. All killing of fin
whales in the Antarctic was banned, but minke whale quotas were raised by some 2,000.
Attempts to rule against purchase of whale meat from nations who disregard International
Whaling Commission quotas met with failure. Even the “pirate” whaler, MV Sierra, can.
continue to dump most of the meat of the endangered sei or Brydes’ whales into the sea
and sell the most expensive cuts to Japan. Further, The Far Eastern Economic Review,
March 26, 1976, states, “The Japanese are also reported to have been negotiating the
sale of these additional boats to Third World countries which are interested in whaling,
but are not members of the International Whaling Commission and so not bound by
quota restrictions.” The Save the Whales Campaign has made great progress, but there is
still a long way to go.

 

INFORMATION REPORTS

 

Four times a year, approximately 30,000 copies of the AW] Information Report are
sent to AWI members, public libraries, all members of the Federation of American Societies
for Experimental Biology, Deans of Medical and Veterinary Medical Schools, humane
societies, and several thousand individual veterinarians, teachers, scientists,
administators and librarians who have asked to receive them.

Articles on subjects other than those already covered in this report include “New
Humane Rules from Canadian Science Fairs” (Vol. 24, No. 3) reproducing the 1975
regulations that eliminate all use of vertebrate animals in Science Fair competitions. In the
same Information Report “Humane Substitutes for Branding” gave the current position of
freeze-marking, a procedure so painless that the inventor, Dr. Keith Farrell, has
freeze-marked himself; “Executive Order on Predators Modified by Ford” told of changes
in the prohibition against use of predator poison on the public lands; “Endangered
Species Salesman Sentenced To Three Years in Jail”; “Law Enforcement by USDA’s
Animal Case Staff.” Vol. 24, No. 4 reported on the National Whale Symposium and
featured an article, “Painful Traps on Trial,” describing the hearings on Congressional
bills to restrict the leghold trap. ,

Vol. 25, No. 1 included a call for boycotting tuna till the Marine Mammal Protection
Act is obeyed by the industry; a report on passage of Senator Warren Magnuson’s orca
bill by the U. S. Senate after the Sea World capture of five killer whales in Puget Sound
outraged hundreds of citizens who watched the pursuers using planes, boats and
explosives.

In Vol. 25, No. 2 announcement was made that Dr. Roger Payne, pioneering whale
scientist, has joined the AWI’s Scientific Advisory Committee. An article by Mary Warner
on grass roots efforts to stop dog thieves and a review of “Living Trophies” by Peter
Batten appeared in this issue. The first sentences under the Marine Mammal Protection
ltd, meted out for illegal capture and sale of dolphins without a permit, were reported in
t is issue.

 

 




 

 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

STATEMENT OF FUNCTIONAL SUPPORT, REVENUE AND EXPENSES

AND CHANGES IN FUND BALANCES

 

YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 1976

 

PUBLIC SUPPORT AND REVENUE
Public Support for Programs and Projects -
Contributions from members, individuals
and others
Public contributions through newspaper
appeab
Sales of special promotion media materials
Total public support
Revenue —
Membership dues
lnterest, dividends and gain or loss on
sale of securities
Sales of publications, reprints and
educational materials
Total public support and revenue

EXPENSES :
Programs and Projects —

Newspaper appeals
Reprints, publications, films and letters
Postage, mailing and address plate costs
Salaries and payroll taxes
Promotion materials, banners and posters
Quarterly Information Reports
Exhibits and attendance at conventions
Memberships
Stationery, subscriptions and other expense

Schweitzer Award and annual meeting
Supporting Services —
Salaries and outside help
Postage, stationery and machine rentals
Legal and accounting services
Utilities and miscellaneous expenses
Depreciation on fixtures and equipment

Excess of public support or (deficiency)
of support over expenses
Fund balances at beginning of year
Fund balances or (deficit) at end of
year - for general and special pro—
tective activities

 

 

 

Programs Save the
and Special Whales
Projects Campaign
$63,400.23 $ 38,346.63
52,784.29
15,443.04
63,400.23 106,573.96
18,569.25
625.94
568.95
83,164.37 106,573.96
56,443.84
5,351.91 14,860.26
2,981.68 13,087.38
3,021.90 2,601.33
18,871.06
10,271.04
1,143.16 927.96
1,500.00 1,550.00
4,646.33
24,269.69 112,988.16
2,637.12
15,741.44 17,133.81
4,476.71
1,417.00 1,417.00
463.71 1,042.41
492.40 208.00
49,498.07 132,789.38
33,666.30 ( 26,215.42)
23,620.15 16.628.98
$57,286.45 (5 9,586.44)

Combined

$101,746.86

52,784.29
15,443.04
169,974.19

18,569.25
625.94

568.95
189,738.33

56,443.84
20.212.17
16,069.06
5,623.23
18,871.06
10,271.04
2,071.12
3,050.00
4,646.33
W
2,637.12

32,875.25
4,476.71
2,834.00
1,506.12

700.40
182,287.45

7,450.88
40,249.13

5 47,700.01

--‘A-é

 

 

(1C

sti

al<




 

SCHWEITZER MEDAL AWARD

 

Fay Brisk was the Schweitzer Medallist in 1976. Chosen for her outstanding dedication
to the welfare of animals and success in achieving reforms, Miss Brisk told some three
hundred members and friends of the AWI assembled in the Senate Caucus Room for the
ceremony, January 10th, some of her experiences in the running of the animal port at
Washington National Airport and described the dramatic events leading up to the
introduction and passage of the Laboratory Animal Welfare Act of 1966.

She told of the mysterious disappearance of Pepper, the Dalmatian, the frantic owner’s
chase after a dog dealer across state lines, the dealer’s admission that he had delivered his
load of dogs to Montefiore Hospital in New York, her phone conversation with the man
in charge of the animal room:

lcould hear the rattling of dog tags at the other end of the line, even as he was telling
me that the dalmatian in question had been used in heart surgery and was dead. [pleaded
with him to save the carcass, but he said it was too late. The “evidence” had been
incinerated. He then volunteered the information that he had ordered six male
dalmatians, but got only four males, and that the dealer had “wrung in” two females.

Through it all, Congressman Resnick was so angered that he introduced a bill that
would guard against petnapping in interstate commerce, and regulate laboratory animal
dealers. "

We all know what happened after that. Further investigations led to convicted dog
thieves who admitted stealing for laboratories. Witness after witness told Congressional
committees of the abuse of animals by laboratory animal dealers, and a number of pets
were found in the laboratories and returned to their owners. One was a setter I traced to
the National Institutes of Health.

In August, 1966, we got the Laboratory Animal Welfare Act.

Just recently, I asked a laboratory animal dealer what he thought this legislation had
accomplished. Here is what he told me:

‘lt’s done some good. It’s cleaned up the marginal dealers, and some of the bad ones
went out of business. The animal quarters in research laboratories look better. But there’s
still plenty of this going on. If there’s such a thing as a ‘dog mafia’, we’ve got one!’

There we have an animal dealer admitting what we all have had reason to suspect right
along: that although there’s been- progress in some areas, petnapping is not one of them.

Senator Lowell Weicker presented the medal and credited the medallist for arousing
his determination to see legislation passed to correct abuses in air shipment of animals
such as he witnessed with her. “Nobody could spend the evening I spent with Fay and
those dogs at the Washington National Airport, seeing the cruelty that was visited on
those animals, without trying to do something about it.” Senator Weicker had successfully
shepherded his bill to passage by the Senate in December, 1975. "

He concluded his remarks with a tribute to “the lifetime of service of Fay Brisk for those
who can’t applaud, can’t vote, can’t pay one penny. It’s really the greatest service, the
efforts she has expended on that dumb but loving constituency. . .The words on the medal
are ‘we need a boundless ethics which will include the animals also.’ ”

*The Animal Welfare Act amendments were signed into law April 22, 1976.

 

PUBLICATIONS

 

“How to Liven Up Your Classroom With a Pod of Whales” by Tamar Griggs, widely
known and respected teacher of young people about whales, is a new leaflet prepared
this year in response to the growing interest of children in saving the whales. Copies are
available from from AWI.

The leaflet describes a variety of activities developed by Ms. Griggs over five years of
teaching about whales: “The subjects we cover are biology, myth, evolution, whaling and

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

conservation. The expressions that we work through are dance, drama, painting, and
writing. We work with feelings, imagination, intuition, and thought. It is a total
involvement for the children.”

“A Whale of a Friend” by George Bryant has been reproduced in leaflet form by AWI
from the original articles in The Toronto Star, February 28, 1976 reporting on a unique
occurrence of Baja California when a young, gray whale approached a whale watching
boat where he played happily over a 24—hour period, allowing 37 people to scratch and
pet him. This leaflet, too, is free on request both to teachers and other interested people.

All whale campaign materials have been continuously updated with newly designed
bumper stickers containing the boycott Japanese and Russian goods message inside the
outline of a sperm whale and a report on the 1975 meeting of the International Whaling
Commission “Conservationists Still View Whales as Industry Pawns.”

Reprints/were issued this year of the tables on Use of Pre— and Post-Operative
Analgesics in Experimental Animal Medicine prepared by Dr. Harry Rowsell for the
Canadian Council on Animal Care and published in the United States by the AWI in
“Basic Care of Experimental Animals.”

“699 Free Things for Teachers,” “Educator Index of Free Materials,” and “The Whole
Kids Catalog” listed AWI materials which continue to be distributed free on request to
school teachers and at cost to others. Manuals include First Aid and Care of Small
Animals, Humane Biology Projects and Animal Expressions. Reprints of articles include
“Attitudes Toward Animals” by Christine Stevens; “Better Nutrition” by Dr. F. Barbara
Orlans; “Towards the Ideal in an Animal Shelter” from the Gaines Dog Research
Progress; “Sanctified Torture” by John Hillaby; “Federal Measures Against the Abuse of
Wild Animals” by Hon. Nathaniel Reed; “Modular Kennels for Laboratory Animals” by
William Hoffer; “Canada’s Experience with Student Use of Living Animals” and “The
Science Fair and the Experimental Animal” by Dr. H. C. Rowsell.

Publications provided free of charge to scientific institutions include Basic Care of
Experimental Animals (in both English and Spanish editions), Comfortable Quarters for
Laboratory Animals and Animal Expressions. Films rented at cost are “Laboratory D095”
and “Handling Laboratory Animals.”

Whale campaign materials were distributed on request in massive quantities including
235,000 Save the Whales fliers, 70,000 bumper stickers, 50,000 buttons, 43,000
posters, 2,000 Vanishing Giants, a 24-page reprint by Rare Animal Relief Effort of the
Audubon magazine article by David Hill, new AWI board members.

Work has continued on the revision of Humane Biology Projects and Animals and
Their Legal Rights with publication of both within the year.

 

MEETINGS ATTENDED AND SPEECHES
I‘lADE BY AWI REPRESENTATIVES

 

International Committee on Laboratory Animals, Thessaloniki, Greece, July 9‘11,
1:975. AWI President spoke on “Benefits and Shortcomings of the US. Animal Welfare

ct.”

American Veterinary Medical Association, Annual Convention, Anaheim, California,
July 14—17, 1975. Dr. Marjorie Anchel spoke on “Beyond Adequate Veterinary Care.”

Cdouncil on Environmental Quality, Washington, DC, July 18, 1975 Briefing on
pre ators.

National Wildlife Federation meeting on predator poisoning, Washington, DC"
August 13, 1975.

University of Washington meeting of industry, government, and friends of dolphins on
the killing of dolphins in tuna purse seines, Seattle, Washington, September 3-5, 1975-

Meeting on dolphin—tuna problem (continuation of September 3-5), Embassy ROW
Hotel, Washington, DC, September 25, 1975.

 

 




 

 

Appeal to Emperor and Empress of Japan to Save the Whales, The Mall, Washington,
DC, October 2, 1975.

Animal Welfare Foundation of Canada, meeting on “The Use of Animals in Research,
Teaching and Testing in Canada,” Toronto, Ontario, October 6, 1975. AWI President
spoke on “The Necessity of Legislation.”

National Marine Fisheries Service, Washington, DC. Briefing on dolphins, October
10, 1975.

National Academy of Sciences Symposium on the Future of Animals, Cells, Models
and Systems in Research, Development, Education and Testing, Washington, DC,
October 22, 23, 1975. AWI President spoke on “Humane Perspectives.” '

U.S. Animal Health Association, Annual Convention, Portland, Oregon, November
2-7, 1975. Attended Animal Welfare Committee Meeting.

National Whale Symposium, Bloomington, Indiana, November 9—12, 1975. AWI
President spoke on “Whales Weighing on the Consciences of Men.”

Meeting of conservation and humane groups to discuss the dolphin—tuna problem with
George Humphreys, Associate Director of the Domestic Counsel at the White House,
New Executive Office Building, Washington, DC. December 2, 1975.

Council on Environmental Quality, Washington, DC, December 8, 1975. Briefing on
dolphins.

AWI Annual Meeting, Washington, DC, January 14, 1976. Presentation of
Schweitzer Medal to Fay Brisk by Senator Lowell Weicker.

Meeting of conservation and humane groups to discuss blackbirds with George
Humphreys, Associate Director of the Domestic Counsel at the White House, Executive
Office Building, Washington, DC. February 3, 1976.

Colorado State University “Whales in the Rockies” Save the Whales Symposium, Fort
Collins, Colorado, March 6, 1976. AWI President spoke on “Boycott.”

Oral arguments on protection of dolphins under the Marine Mammal Protection Act
before Judge Richey, US. District Court, Washington, DC, March 9, 1976.

North American Wildlife and Natural Resources Conference, Audubon meeting on
blackbird problem, Washington, DC, March 23, 1976.

Virginia Federation of Humane Societies, Annual Meeting, Luray, Virginia, April
23-24, 1976. AWI President spoke on “Review of Bills Pending in Congress.”

Florida Federation of Humane Societies, Annual Meeting, Jacksonville, Florida, May
14, 1976. AWI President spoke on “Protection of Marine Mammals.”

Luther Jackson Intermediate School, Merrifield, Virginia, May 24, 1976. Bianca Beary
spoke on the cruelties of trapping.

U. S. Department of Agriculture, Discussion of regulations under Public Law 94-279,
amendments to the Animal Welfare Act, College Park, Maryland, May 26, 1976.

National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Washington, DC. lnteragency
meetings on U. S. participation in the International Whaling Commission, February 3,
April 8, May 17, June 4, 1976.

Canadian Association for Laboratory Animal Science, Toronto, Ontario, June 9,
1976. Marjorie Cooke spoke on “Moral Questions Arising from the Use of Animals for
the Advancement of Medical Science.”

U. S. Fish and Wildlife Service Annual Regulation Conference for Migratory, Shore,
and Upland Game Birds, Washington, D. C., June 22, 1976.

International Whaling Commission Meeting, London, England, June 21-25, 1976.
AWI President spoke on “Nacho, the Whale, Points the Way,” representing Friends of
the Earth of the United States.

Project Monitor, Washington, DC. Attended weekly meetings.

Attorney General of New York State, meetings on animal welfare, New York,
attended by Dr. Marjorie Anchel, July 8, September 9, October 7, November 13,
December 2, 1975 and January 13, February 3, March 9 (in Albany), April 13, May 6,
June 8, July 20, 1976.

 




 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

 

Scientific Committee
Marjorie Anchel, Ph.D.
Bennett Derby, M.D.
Lee R. Dice, Ph.D.

Paul Kiernan, M.D.

F. Barbara Orlans, Ph.D.
Roger Payne, Ph.D.
Samuel Peacock, MD.
John Walsh, M.D.

 

International Committee

Major C. W. Hume, O.B.E., M.C., B.Sc., M.I. Biol. (United Kingdom)
T. G. Antikatzides, D.V.M. (Greece)

David Ricardo (Canada)

N. E. Wernberg (Denmark)

 

Officers and Staff

Christine Stevens, President

Cynthia Wilson, Vice-President

Marjorie Cooke, Secretary

Roger L. Stevens, Treasurer

Adele Schoepperle, Assistant Treasurer
Marilyn Chamberlain, Publications Secretary
Diane Halverson, Administrative Assistant
Lynne Hutchison, Whale Campaign Secretary
Bianca Beary, Publications Coordinator

 

Contributions to the Animal Welfare Institute are deductible in computing income tax
returns, and donations, large or small, are most gratefully accepted for the general fund

or for special purposes. The extension of the lnstitute’s much-needed work depends
upon such support.

 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

 

Post Office Box 3650 Washington, DC. 20007

 

Design & Cover Art:
Cachalot Design Group/Marblehead, Massachusetts Printed in USA.

 




 

 

 

 

" 7:379. Xe“
uw~¢2ﬁﬂ » . ,
‘6; {1/152 5"??d

”"3751515’9ﬁi'7f/ '
_ ‘\.."h i «I /' I
Nr“\ “‘ \: ’41 '0’, 4””,
‘¢.\\ - QM» 2&9, / “x
I I n I

I |'
' [AV
;':T'; 'f'
I "l" .r ‘ \
i

f
\‘ \ rt

"N a],
\\\ ., . 9““;75‘49”
‘- i r. '

., .- J I
.{s‘KJI'VI'

1"
\‘ f W77},
\x,‘ ﬁ-ﬁl/ '

o

d"
O.

'.
n
\

\‘

 




 

 

PRESIDENT OF COSTA RICA
RECEIVES SCHWEITZER MEDAL

 

President Daniel Oduber is the first Head of State to receive the Albert Schweitzer
Award of the Animal Welfare Institute. Senator Hubert H. Humphrey, Schweitzer
Medalist in 1958, made the presentation before an audience of five hundred AWI
members and friends and representatives of the Diplomatic Corps assembled in the
largest Senate hearing room. President Carter telephoned President Oduber during the
ceremony to express good wishes.

The medalist was selected in recognition, as Senator Humphrey stated, “of his efforts in
creating an outstanding network of national parks in Costa Rica’s forests and coastlands
to preserve unspoiled a homeland and refuge for that country’s native wildlife, including
species that otherwise could disappear. The park development...” Humphrey continued,
“is a monumental project. The vision and commitment demonstrated by Costa Rica is an
example to countries with far greater resources and countries that could well undertake
the same kind of activity.”

Responding, President Oduber said in part, “The recently established Corcovado
National Park is one of the few regions in the world that effectively protect a large area of
undisturbed tropical rain forest and its associated wild life. Among the endangered
species that find shelter in this and other parks in Costa Rica are the manatee, Baird’s
tapir, jaguar, hawksbill turtle, giant anteater, titi monkey, the lovely quetzal and many
other species. To continue this work, and to reach our target of conserving 25% of our
national territory can be expensive. Nevertheless, we are determined to press on with our
programs.” It is hoped that other nations will follow this bold aim of conserving one
quarter of their territory in natural, unspoiled condition, allowing mammals, birds and
other creatures to live undisturbed by destructive activities.

 

SEALS, DOLPHINS, AND WOLVES
ARE WINNERS IN COURT

 

The Animal Welfare Institute in conjunction with fellow animal protective and
environmental groups won protection for three persecuted groups of animals through
law suits this year.

In a decision announced July 27, Judge S. Kelly Wright ruled that the Fouke Fur
Company could not import the skins of South African fur seals that were nursing or less
than eight months old. He ruled that the group represented by Len Meeker of the Center
for Law and Social Policy had standing in the case. The Commerce Department’s attempt
to allow Fouke to import the skins of the juvenile seals in contravention of the Marine
Mammal Protection Act was thus overruled by the bench. Observations of the young
seals pathetically vomiting milk as they were unskillfully clubbed on South African
beaches were submitted in evidence. Few Americans wear seal skin coats any more, but
the Fouke Company exports the skins it cures to international markets.

A series of court cases were won for the dolphins killed in tuna purse seines by William
Butler of the Environmental Defense Fund representing AWI and a number of like
minded organizations. The series of victories caused the industry to go back to fishing
under current regulations of the Marine Mammal Protection Act under which they had
claimed it was impossible to operate. The industry’s attempt at undermining the law itself
was equally unsuccessful. Early reports indicate that the use of properly designed fine
mesh panels on the purse seines and greater care in releasing dolphins from the nets is

 

 

 




 

 

 

leading to massive reductions in previous kill levels. _

A series of court actions to prevent gunning down of Alaskan wolves from helicopters
has been undertaken by the Natural Resources Defense Council and Defenders of
Wildlife with financial assistance from AWI and other interested groups. While the wolves
are not yet safe from an “experiment” designed to kill 80% of them, the killing was held
up due to the legal action.

 

 

 

THE WHALERS IN RETREAT

 

The largest quota cut voted in the history of the "International Whaling Commission was
achieved at the Canberra, Australia meeting, June 21—24. A reduction of 10,110 whales
from last year was voted by the Commissioners of the seventeen member countries. The
36% cut brought the total number of whales allowed to be killed by IWC member
countries to 17,800 for the coming year. Resolutions were passed against transfer of
whaling vessels and equipment to non-IWC countries or purchase of whale products from
such countries.

The AWI took a leading role in organizing demonstrations worldwide on “Whale
Survival Day” just before the Canberra meeting. In Lafayette Park across from the White
House a large gathering of friends of whales heard Professor George Small condemn the
sordid economics of commercial whaling and interrupted his speech with repeated bursts
of applause. More than 3,000 members of the crowd signed petitions that were flown
directly to Canberra by the President of AWI, an observer at the week-long meeting. A
huge model of a whale, on a flat-bed truck drew attention to the rally; stars of stage and
television spoke for the whales and sang for them; an original whale ballet was performed
on the lawn, and country music entertained at the opening and closing of the event,
which focussed appreciation of President Carter’s “Saving the Whales” section of his May
23rd Environmental Message. A blow-up of the text on a big sign and a 20- foot banner
decorated with leaping whales expressed thanks to the President.

Demonstrations coordinated by the Whale Defenders Coalition (AWI, Friends of
Cetaceans, Friends of the Earth, Greenpeace, and Project Jonah) took place in London,
Paris, Auckland, Vancouver, Ottawa, San Francisco, Zurich, Vienna, and Hocheim.
AWI developed a cross country series of demonstrations in the United States.

In Australia, the press responded warmly to the Save the Whales campaign and
reported daily with long, illustrated articles and front—page reports of what was happening
in the meetings, closed to the press and guarded by police.

The AWI coordination of the boycott campaign against Japanese and Russian goods
continues. Total number of demonstrations since the campaign began has now risen to
463. Public service ads have been appearing regularly in To the Point International, and
The International Herald-Tribune carried an AWI public service ad to save the whales just
before the Canberra meeting.

International press coverage was larger than ever before. The star reporter of the IWC
meeting, Joseph Glascott of The Sydney Morning Herald, headlined a piece in which he
interviewed the Soviet and Japanese Commissioners, “The Whalers in Retreat.”
Commissioner Nikonorov was quoted as describing the Russian whaling industry as
“small but expensive”. It costs the Soviet Union $95,000,000 a year to keep its four
whaling fleets on the oceans, according to Nikonorov.

 




 

.4 1

 

 

PUBLICATIONS

 

Major publication of the year was the newly revised Humane Biology Projects, a
manual whose previous edition has gone through eight printings, so popular has it been
with high school science teachers.

Emphasis is placed on the role students and teachers can play in protection of wildlife
and the environment generally. New chapters include “You as a Guardian of Nature”
and “You as the Subject of Study.” Dr. F. Barbara Orlans, a member of the AWI
Scientific Advisory Committee, wrote the latter chapter which also appears in her recently
published book Animal Care From Protozoa to Small Animals, (Menlo Park, California
Addison-Wesley Publishing Co., 1977). Dr. Marjorie Anchel, another very active
member of the Committee, contributed to the new edition as did her colleague in the New
York Botanical Garden, Dr. Karl Niklas. Other contributors to whom the AWI is grateful
for interesting new material are Dr. Van Flyger, Professor of Wildlife Biology, and, Dr.
Dewey M. Caron, Associate Professor of Entomology, both of the University of
Maryland, and Kenneth M. Nagler, former Chief of Space Operations, Support Division,
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration.

Also published this year was “The Schweitzer Medalists” a leaflet describing the
achievements of all those who have received the Albert Schweitzer Award of the AWI
from the time when a gold replica of the medal was presented to Dr. Schweitzer himself in
1954 through the 1976 award to President Oduber. The distinguished persons who have
made the presentations are also named.

A new listing of Educational Materials available from the Institute was designed by
Robert Benson of Cachalot Design Group and published this year.

50,000 copies of “Let Us Live,” a full color leaflet showing the terror and pain endured
by animals caught in leghold traps were printed for AWI this year, the previous run having
been exhausted.

Planning has begun for a new edition of Comfortable Quarters for Laboratory Animals
with the generous professional assistance of the well known Washington architectural firm
of Leo A. Daly Company. The manual, like the existing edition, will be provided free on
request to scientists, administrators and architects who need sound information on design
of quarters for animals used for research and testing.

“Letter from a Whale” by Anthony Sandonato is a new leaflet designed for upper
elementary and junior high school students. Written in an attractive script, it addresses the
reader from a whale’s viewpoint. The “Letter” fills a gap in AWI whale campaign
materials between information designed for adult readers and Tamar Griggs’ “How to
Liven Up Your Classroom With a Pod of Whales” for elementary schools.

Whale campaign materials distributed during the year include 100,000 fliers, 5,000
22—page compilations of articles on whales from the AWI Information Report, 10,000
posters, 20,000 pins, 20,000 bumper stickers and 1,000 copies of Vanishing Giants, the
24—page reprint of AWI board member David Hill’s article with illustrations by Richard
Ellis of all the great whales.

The Dow—Jones “List of Free Materials Available to Educators,” “The Rainbow Book,”
“699 Free Things for Teachers,” “Educator Index of Free Materials,” and “The Whole
Kids Catalog” listed AWI materials which continue to be distributed free on request to
school teachers and at cost to others. Manuals include First Aid and Care Of Small
Animals, Humane Biology Projects and Animal Expressions. Reprints of articles include
“Attitudes Toward Animals” by Christine Stevens; “Better Nutrition” by Dr. F. Barbara
Orlans; “Towards the Ideal in an Animal Shelter” from the Gaines Dog ResearCh
Progress; “Sanctified Torture” by John Hillaby; “Federal Measures Against the Abuse Of

 

 

 




 

 

 

Wild Animals” by Hon. Nathaniel Reed; “Modular Kennels for Laboratory Animals” by
William Hoffer; “Canada’s Experience with Student Use of Living Animals” and “The
Science Fair and the Experimental Animal” by Dr. H.C. Rowsell.

Publications provided free of charge to scientific institutions include Basic Care of
Experimental Animals (in both English and Spanish editions), Comfortable Quarters for
Laboratory Animals and Animal Expressions. Films rented at cost are “Laboratory Dogs”
“Handling Laboratory Animals”, “Whales, Dolphins and Men” and “Last Days of the
Dolphin?”

 

COOPERATION WITH OTHER ORGANIZATIONS

 

AWI has joined in many joint efforts with other humane and environmental groups to
help animals throughout the world. This year the Institute became a member of the
International Union for the Conservation of Nature, the creator of the Red Data Book,
pioneer in the necessary scientific determination of endangered and threatened species.
AWl is a member of the World Federation for the Protection of Animals whose work is
directed primarily to the prevention of cruelty. WFPA’s advice to the Council of Europe
has been instrumental in development of three animal protective treaties on 1) transpor-
tation of animals, 2) intensive systems of livestock husbandry, and 3) humane slaughter.
The treaties may be adhered to by all nations after the European members have ratified
them.

AWl is one of five major organizational members of Monitor, Inc, a coalition founded
four years ago to monitor enforcement of the Marine Mammal Protection Act of 1972
and the Endangered Species Act of 1973. Every week numerous permit requests
published in the Federal Register to capture, transport, tag or otherwise interfere with the
many animals covered by these two major laws, are commented on by Monitor
organizations. Sharing the burden of writing these comments which must be based on
sound documentation and scientific information, AWl and the other member
organizations are able to accomplish a much broader scope of work than any existing
individual group could do.

Monitor groups have also joined together in successful lawsuits for the protection of
animals, some of which are mentioned earlier in this report.

In order to support the work, a highly successful benefit concert generously given by
the world’s greatest cellist, Mstislav Rostropovich, took place March 28, 1977 in the John
F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts. AWI took a very active part in the
organization of the event.

President and Mrs. Carter, whose love of classical music and of marine mammals is
well known, came to the concert, entering the Presidential Box so quietly that the
audience was not immediately aware of their presence.

Star music critic Irving Lowens wrote of the concert, “Mstislav Rostropovich
temporarily put down his baton and picked up his cello bow last night at the Kennedy
Center, demonstrating once again that he is the world’s outstanding performer on his
chosen instrument...The evening began with a wonderful performance of the early
Brahms Sonata in E minor. . .Rostropovich took the center of the stage alone and offered
the Bach Suite No. 3 in C major for unaccompanied cello in a magisterial reading, full of
the subtlest nuance. After the intermission came an arrangement of Rachmaninoff’s
song, ‘Vocalise,’ in which Rostropovich’s cello sang more eloquently than nearly any
singer l have heard attempt it, and closed with a coruscatingly brilliant projection of Serge
Prokofiev’s Cello Sonata in C major...All in all, the Rostropovich-Sanders-Monitor, lnc.
recital proved a high point in the history of the Kennedy Center, an unforgettable
aesthetic and emotional experience.”

AWI acted as the lead organization in the Whale Defenders Coalition, an ad hoc group

 




 

of organizations that joined together to focus world attention on the International Whaling
Commission meeting in Canberra, Australia and to follow up on the meeting. Its work is
described earlier in this report.

In addition to formal cooperation with different federations and coalitions, AWI offers
free educational materials to all animal protective organizations and assists and works with
many individual groups on special projects to help animals.

 

 

LABORATORY ANIMALS

 

Such cooperation with other organizations is well exemplified by work for laboratory
animals during the past year. The AWI purchased and distributed copies of the important
new book Painful Experiments on Animals by Dallas Pratt, M.D., published by Argus
Archives, the New York animal protective organization that researches major areas of
animal suffering and documents it in substantial publications. A review was published in
the Information Report, and sustained efforts to encourage wider readership have been
made. The book documents more fully than any other publication the current situation in
the United States with respect to use and abuse of these animals. It deals in a professional
manner with such topics as compulsory toxicity testing (illustrating the degrees of
destruction of the eyes of fully conscious rabbits under Food and Drug Administration
directions) and with alternate methods of testing. The work of Fund For The
Replacement of Animals In Medical Experiments (FRAME), the British organization
founded to encourage use of non—animal methods, has been focussed on by the AWI,
and a comprehensive article by FRAME’s Scientific Administrator, Dr. Andrew Rowan
-. was published in the Information Report under the title of “Safety Testing of
Pharmaceutical and Other Environmental Chemicals.”

In the same field a contest with international awards totalling $16,000 from the Felix
Wankel and Ernst Hutzenlaub Research Awards for Animal Protection in West Germany
was publicized by AWI. '

Regulatory veterinary medicine provides the most practical means of reaching animals
in laboratories on a broad scale. The US. Animal Health Association is the organ of this
veterinary specialty. The President of the AWI has been a member of its Animal Welfare
Committee since the Committee was founded in 1968. Requests from the USAHA to the
Secretary of Agriculture last year which related to laboratory animals included a request
that he publish final regulations On exercise for laboratory dogs; prohibit by regulation the
use of the same dog for a series of painful operations merely to save money; and
revise the animal research facility reporting forms to “clarify and more accurately reflect
the actual use of anesthetics, analgesics, and tranquilizers on animals involved in
research, testing, or experimentation.” Full and proper use of pain relieving drugs as
required by the Animal Welfare Act is obviously a vitally important means of relieving
animal suffering in laboratories. AWI’s efforts have resulted in some progress but much
remains to be done.

an. ”7




 

INFORMATION REPORTS

 

The quarterly Information Reports are mailed to over 30,000 individuals and groups
including AWI members, public libraries, all members of the Federation of American
Societies for Experimental Biology, Deans of Medical and Veterinary Medical Schools,
humane societies, and several thousand individual veterinarians, teachers, scientists,
administrators and librarians who have asked to receive them. ,

Articles on subjects other than those covered more fully in this report include a
comprehensive, illustrated article, “Animals in Factory Farms” by Ruth Harrison, the
acknowledged world expert whose pioneering book, Animal Machines, first brought to
public attention the appallingly restrictive conditions under which poultry, veal calves and
pigs are maintained in the name of commercial profit (Information Report Vol. 26, No.
2). The same issue carried a first hand report by Michael Webster on abusive wildlife trade
in Hong Kong entitled, “Eating China’s Wild Animals.” A third article in this issue, “Exotic
Bird Trade Again Introduces Newcastle Disease to US,” was based on a report of the
American Veterinary Medical Association of smuggling 326 parrots from Mexico valued
at $50,000. ’

Two well researched studies in Britain on the international wild bird trade and the
terrible suffering and death of the birds involved were reviewed in Information Reports
Vol. 25, No. 3 and Vol. 26, No. 1. “Airborne Birds” by TR Inskipp and G.J. Thomas
documents the fact that 89% of the cages of birds examined were overcrowded and only
5% complied with the regulations for ventilation holes. “All Heaven in a Rage” by Mr.
Inskipp concludes: “Many of the catchers and exporters regard the colorful birds as the
most valuable; indeed, we know that they do not always bother to send off the
dull—coloured females and immatures, which are therefore torn from the lime-sticks and
left to die. To what figure does this bring the percentage mortality? A conservative
estimate of the world trade is five million birds per year, but this figure may well be 10
million or 25 million and how many birds are caught to produce this? 100 million? Or
more?”

“Don’t Buy Ivory, Elephants Decimated in Illegal Ivory Traffic,” appeared in the same
issue. It featured reports by Brian Jackman in The London Sunday Times and John A.
Burton in The New Scientist on the poaching and poisoning of elephants for the illicit
trade in their tusks. “Poaching has also brought about the destruction of the elephants’-
close-knit matriarchal family groups...the parks were strewn with rotting elephant
carcasses. None had been killed for food. But in every case the tusks have been hacked
out,” wrote Mr. Jackman.

Information Report Vol. 25, No. 3 includes, “Horse Protection Act Strengthened by
Congress —— FBI Investigation of Alleged Bribery of Horse Show Judges Studied by
Justice Department.” The Justice Department, however, dropped the case later. The
same issue reported on the ratification of the Polar Bear Treaty and the Convention for
the Conservation of Antarctic Seals and on passage of the bill to provide some protection
for the rare Tule Elk.

Reports on three wildlife meetings appeared in Vol.25, No.4. 1) The first meeting of
the parties to the Convention on Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora
in Bern, Switzerland, November 26, 1976, where all primates, cats and otters not already
listed on Appendix I (endangered) were placed on Appendix II (threatened) and thus
subject to permit procedures in international trade. 2) The fourth international congress of
the World Wildlife Fund in San Francisco and 3) “California Celebrates the Whale,”
Governor Brown’s massive whale day. This issue also reported on “Japanese Whalers
Hauling in $3,600,000 on a ‘Scientific Permit,’ ” the issuance of a unilateral permit to kill
240 Brydes’ whales where the International Whaling Commission quota was zero, and
“South Africa Goes Out of the Whaling Business,” because it could no longer make a
profit. '

 




 

 

MEETINGS ATTENDED AND SPEECHES MADE
BY AWI REPRESENTATIVES

 

American Veterinary Medical Association, Annual Meeting, Cincinnati, Ohio, July
19-22, 1976. AWI booth exhibit.

Department of the Interior meeting on Injurious Wildlife, Washington, DC, August 5,
1976.

National Wildlife Federation meeting on pest control, Washington, DC, August 24,
1976.

Interagency meeting preparing for meeting of the parties to the Endangered Species
Convention in Bern, Switzerland, Department of the Interior, Washington, DC,
September 17, 1976.

Conference on Humane Trapping, Canadian Association for Humane Trapping,
Toronto, Ontario, September 24-26, 1976. Dr. John Beary spoke on trap injuries to
children, pets and non-target species.

Meeting of national groups supporting boycott of Japanese and Russian goods to save the
whales, Washington, DC, September 30, 1976.

Meeting on implementation of the Marine Mammal Protection Act, Department of
Commerce, October 5, 1976.

Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, US. Department of Agriculture, College

Park, Maryland, meetings on Animal Transportation and Horse Protection regulations,
October 12—13, 1976.

Hearings on marine mammals in Alaska, US. District Court, Washington, DC, October
19, 1976.

Humane Society of the United States Convention, Washington, DC, October 22-23,
1976. AWI President held a workshop on “Animals in Biomedical Research” and took
part in a panel on “US. Department of Agriculture and Animal Welfare.”

Symposium on Laboratory Animal Housing, National Research Council - National
Academy of Sciences, Hunt Valley, Maryland, October 22, 23, 1976.

National Marine Education Conference, Pacific Grove, California, October 26-29, 1976.
AWI contributed literature.

Symposium on Wildlife in America, Council on Environmental Quality, Washington,
DC, October 29, 1976.

Conference of the parties to the Convention on International Trade in Endangered
Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES), Bern, Switzerland, November 2-6, 1976.

US. Animal Health Association Convention, Miami Beach, Florida, November 10,
1976. Attended Animal Welfare Committee meeting.

California Celebrates the Whale, Sacramento, California, November 20, 1976. AWI
booth exhibit. Tom Garrett spoke on “A Time of Maximum Peril.”

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

International Congress of the World Wildlife Fund, San Francisco, California, November
29 - December 1, 1976.

Animal Resources Advisory Committee, Division of Research Resources, National
Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland, January 5, 1977.

Pet Industry Joint Advisory Council, Annual Meeting, Washington, DC, February 8,

1977. AWI President spoke on mistreatment of exotic pets and the Endangered Species
Convention.

AWI Annual meeting, Washington, DC, February 9, 1977. Presentation of Schweitzer
Medal to President Daniel Oduber by Senator Hubert Humphrey.

Environmental Study Conference, Washington, DC, February 23, 1977.

United Nations Environment Programme meeting of conservation groups with Mostafa
Tolba, Washington, DC, March 1, 1977.

National Wildlife Federation meeting of groups conducting boycott to save the whales,
Washington, DC, March 3, 1977.

US. Department of Agriculture meeting on Control of Exotic Newcastle Disease,
Hyattsville, Maryland, March 4, 1977.

Mstislav Rostropovich concert benefit for Monitor, Inc., Washington, DC, March 28,
1977. AWI played a major role in organizing the benefit and presenting AWI materials at
the exhibit table.

Bioethics Seminar, George Washington University, April 2, 1977. Dr. John Beary
moderated the panel.

Meeting of environmental groups with Secretary of Commerce Juanita Kreps,
Washington, DC, April 5, 1977.

Women’s National Democratic Club luncheon, Washington, DC, April 18, 1977. AWI
President introduced Tom Garrett who spoke on “Man is the Only Animal Who Blushes
or Needs To.”

Cousteau Involvement Day, Boston, Massachusetts, May 14, 1977. AWI President took
part in forum on “The Plight of Marine Mammals,” spoke on “The Great Whales:
International Conservation Efforts.”

Luther Jackson Intermediate School, Merrifield, Virginia, May 20, 1977. Bianca Beary
spoke on “Cruelties of Trapping.”

Maryland Federation of Humane Societies, Annual Meeting, Brooklandville, Maryland,
May 21, 1977. AWI President spoke on marine mammals.

Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (USDA) meeting on regulations for Animal
Welfare Act Amendments, May 25-27, 1977.

National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Washington, DC, interagency
meetings on US. participation in the International Whaling Commission meeting, April 1
and May 25, 1977.

 




 

Bowhead Whale Meeting, National Marine Fisheries Service, Washington, DC, June 8,
1977.

State Department meeting on US. role in international environmental affairs, June 11,
1977.

Whale Survival Day, Lafayette Park, across from the White House, June 17, 1977. AWI,
as part of the Whale Defenders Coalition, helped organize the speeches and concert and
ran a booth exhibit.

International Whaling Commission Meeting, Canberra, Australia, June 20—24, 1977.
AWI President spoke on “Whale Survival Day” and delivered petitions with more than
three thousand signatures of persons who had attended the rally.

Project Monitor, Washington, DC, attended weekly meetings.

 

Contributions to the Animal Welfare Institute are deductible in computing income tax
returns, and donations, large or small, are most gratefully accepted for the general fund
or for special purposes. The extension of the Institute’s much-needed work depends
upon such support. Bequests to the Institute will help guarantee the continuance of its
work to protect animals. Please remember the Institute in your will.

Suggested form of bequest:

Igive to the Animal Welfare Institute the sum of ........................ dollars
[or if other property, describe the property].

The Institute’s address is P.O. Box 3650, Washington, DC. 20007.

 

THE COVER ART is a new drawing of the Blue Whale by noted marine artist Richard
Ellis. It has been incorporated as part of a recent redesign of the entire SAVE THE
WHALES! graphic campaign by Robert J. Benson and Cachalot Design Group of
Marblehead, MA.

 

 

 




 

 

AW] STATEMENT OF FUNCTIONAL EXPENSES

Year ended June 30, 1977

 

Salaries
Payroll taxes

Newspaper ads against commercial whaling

Reprints, Publications, and subscriptions of
educational materials

Information Reports

Newsletter releases

Humane Biology Projects

Booklets and brochures on specific care of
animals

Defenders of Wildlife-Wolf campaign

Schweitzer Award for service

Contribution to Monitor Benefit

OrganizatiOnal Grants

Loss on promotion banners and media

Convention lectures

Consulting and research

Rentals of space and equipment
Postage, mailing and addressing costs
Stationery, printing and office expense
Professional services

Memberships, annual report and other

Total expenses before depreciation

Depreciation on fixtures and equipment

Total expenses

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Program Services Supporting Services
Public Save Whale Management Total
Education the Defenders and Fund all

and Projects Whales Coalition Total General Raising Expenses
$ 14,009 $ 6,252 $ 1,540 $ 21,801 $ 8.744 $ 5,352 $ 35,897
1,100 482 90 1,672 694 432 2,798
1,998 1,998 525 2,523
378 42 2,338 2,758 3,323 566 6,647
12,087 2,532 14,619 2,650 1,200 18,469
4,778 4,778 1,206 5,984
5,959 5,959 5,959
3,887 765 4,652 4,652
2,739 2,739 2,739
1,939 1,939 990 950 3,879
2,400 2,400
12,000 12,000 12,000
1,702 1,702 1,702
3,244 483 3,727 3,727
472 472 89 561
2,079 2,079 2,079
3,784 2,750 6,534 3,187 4,766 14,487
3,979 4,548 1,550 10,077 5,123 4,757 19,957
1,000 1,000 2,690 3,690
205 205 1,247 1,452
58,355 21,759 20,597 100,711 31,137 19,754 151,602
102 208 310 411 721
$ 58,457 $ 21,967 $ 20,597 $101,021 $ 31,548 $ 19,754 $152,323




 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

 

Scientific Committee
Marjorie Anchel, Ph.D.
Bennett Derby, M.D.
Lee R. Dice, Ph.D.

Paul Kiernan, M.D.

F. Barbara Orlans, Ph.D.
Roger Payne, Ph.D.
Samuel Peacock, MD.
John Walsh, M.D.

 

International Committee

Major C. W. Hume, O.B.E., M.C., B.Sc., M.I. Biol. (United Kingdom)
Angela King (United Kingdom)

T. G. Antikatzides, D.V.M. (Greece)

David Ricardo (Canada)

N. E. Wernberg (Denmark)

 

Officers and Staff

Christine Stevens, President

Cynthia Wilson, Vice-President

Marjorie Cooke, Secretary

Roger L. Stevens, Treasurer

Adele Schoepperle‘, Assistant Treasurer
Wendy Mettger, Publications Secretary

Diane Halverson, Administrative Assistant
Lynne Hutchison, Whale Campaign Secretary
Bianca Beary, Publications Coordinator

 

 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

 

Post Office Box 3650 Washington, DC. 20007

 

Cover Art: Richard Ellis Printed in USA.
Design: Cachalot Design Group/Marblehead, Massachusetts on 100% recycled paper

 




('3

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

 

 

PO. Box 3650 Washington, DC. 20007

 

The entire program of the Animal Welfare Institute depends on
contributions from individuals, organizations or firms who desire
to see the continued protection of all animals. This is the sole
aim of the Institute and we earnestly solicit your financial
support.

All contributions and dues are tax deductible.

I want to become a non—voting member of the Animal Welfare
Institute and enclose a check or money order for the following
category:

B LIFE $100.00 Cl SUSTAINING $10.00
C] ASSOCIATE $ 25.00 El CONTRIBUTING ~$ 5.00

CI My check includes the amount for the category checked
above plus an additional contribution

All members will receive the quarterly Information Report

C] Please send me information about procedures which can be
used to give the Institute a gift of investments or property or
about naming the Institute beneficiary in a will.

A copy of the Animal Welfare Institute’s latest annual report
filed with the New York State Board of Social Welfare is
available upon ”written request to the Institute at the address on
the masthead, or to the New York State Board of Social
Welfare, Office Tower, Empire State Plaza, Albany,

NY 12223.

 




 

 

TWENTY- SEVENTH ANNUAL REPORT

 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE June 30,1977 to July 1,1978

 

 

 

 

YOKO MUTO RECEIVES SCHWEITZER MEDAL
FROM AMBASSADOR MANSFIELD

 

The Schweitzer Medal Ceremony took place at the American Embassy in
Tokyo this year when Ambassador and Mrs. Mike Mansfield received members
of the Japan Animal Welfare Society and the ambassadors of Britain and
Canada at the presentation of the Albert Schweitzer Medal to Miss Yoko Muto.

Yoko Muto has devoted eight years of her life to caring for the thousands of
dogs subjected to experimental surgery in one half of the University of Tokyo
Medical School. The part of the school in which she works houses hundreds of
dogs in concrete stalls outside the main building. The immediately post-
operative animals are in a single large room where Miss Muto keeps a thin soup
cooking for them and provides them with clean blankets to sleep on. She per—
sonally waits upon them stroking and encouraging them to survive the drastic
surgery to which many of them have been subjected. She coaxes them to
swallow a few mouthfuls of soup. She gives them pain relieving drugs. The dogs
who survive love her. Out in the pens, those who have recovered lean on their
chains to peek around the edges of their stalls, wagging their tails, because they
know they will see her.

In the other half of the Medical School, an impressive looking building which
cost millions of dollars to erect, the dogs are housed in cramped cages from
which they are never released for exercise. The cages are made of expensive
metal bars, and the dogs are compelled to perch on these bars. their toes cling—
ing as if they were birds. The dogs' feet are inflamed, the webs between their
toes pathologically red and sore. The bars are not fixed. They roll. Underneath
the urine and feces accumulate, and when these pathetic dogs attempt to wag
their tails to greet visitors, the tails dip into the filth and splash all over the dogs
and cages. Thus is “sanitation" carried out in Tokyo University Medical School
-except for the part in which Yoko Muto works.

Experimental surgery carried out under such conditions makes a mockery of
medical research. It recedes to the days before Lister and Semmelweiss
discovered the importance of cleanliness for surgical patients.

Yoko Muto, under difficult circumstances, working six days a week without
any holidays (for otherwise, the dogs would not have been fed nor their quarters
cleaned) has kept her charges as comfortable as possible and she has given them
confidence of their worth. She gave the monetary part of her award to thevdogs
themselves because she knows their need.

As ambassador Mansfield said in awarding the medal “She has been singled
out for her willingness to go that extra mile to help animals."

 

ANTI-WHALING ACHIEVEMENTS AND SETBACKS

 

The AWI has continued an aggressive campaign throughout the year to end
commercial whaling. A half-page advertisement carried worldwide in Time
magazine June 19, 1978 brought the plight of the whales to approximately 40
million readers in more than 150 countries.

A half-page ad in The London Times, June 24, just two days before the
IWC‘s annual meeting featured Brian Jackman‘s report (London Sunday Times,
June 18) on alleged violations by a Russian whaling captain, including killing of
undersized whales, mothers and infants, and grossly exceeding the quotas.

Several AWI public service ads were run in To The Point International calling
for a moratorium on commercial whaling.

A sixteen—page submission for the Inquiry on Whales and Whaling of the
Government of Australia was prepared by the Institute. The Inquiry was the
result of widespread demand for a cessation of whaling. AWI worked actively
with Australian groups in the campaign there. The announcement by the
Cheynes Beach Whaling Company, on the first day of the Inquiry, that it had
decided to end its whaling operations represented a major victory for whale pro-
tection forces.

The AWI President attended two meetings of the International Whaling Com-
mission (IWC) during the year; at the Special Meeting in Tokyo as a member of
the United States delegation, and at the London meeting as a representative of
the African Wildlife Leadership Foundation. Delegates have no opportunity to
speak, but five minutes are allocated to non-governmental organizations.
Following are excerpts from the statement made by the AWI President:

“In her farewell speech to the IWC, the Mexican Commissioner, Miss
Fuentes—Berain predicted sadly that the Commission would go down in history
as a body that put the interests of a few whalers ahead of thousands of whales.

“Now the situation has changed from prejudiced actions to outright scandal as
we learn that the two biggest whaling nations are no longer satisfied to argue
their case in the Commission but are ruthlessly circumventing it. You have
before you the news of Japanese economic pressure on Panama to withdraw
the agenda items 9.1 and 9.2 for ten year moratoria.

“Japan is apparently acting to prevent a properly scheduled vote which

member nations have carefully considered. To quote from Eco: Three weeks~

ago
“Mr. Kuniaka Asomura, director of the Fisheries Division of the Economics
Bureau of Japan’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs, in meetings with Panama's
Minister of Industry, Mr. Julio Sosa, described Panama’s moratorium proposal
as ‘an unfriendly action’, which, if adopted, would force Japan to quit the IWC.
He then threatened to cancel Japan’s planned purchase from Panama of
50,000 metric tons of sugar, a 5 million pound deal, if the moratorium proposal
was not withdrawn. The threat was effective, apparently. Last week, Minister

Sosa cabled Panama’s ambassador to London, ordering that the moratorium be
withdrawn.’

"As for the Soviet Union, I would quote from The London Sunday Times,
June 18th:

‘Russian whalers have slaughtered nearly 2,000 more whales this year than
their international quota allows according to a unique protest by a new type of
Russian dissident which has just come into the hands of The Sunday Times.'...

“This is by no means the first time that protests have been made about the kill-
ing of undersized or protected whales, and it is unlikely to be the last so long as
the present monitoring system - so clearly open to abuse - remains in force.

“Most whales are killed by Russia and Japan - both IWC members - and the
only way a check is kept on their ships is by the exchange of observers: Russians
on the Japanese ships and Japanese on the Russian ones...

“If this Commission conducts business as usual at this meeting, if it fails to ex—
amine seriously the charges of economic blackmail by Japan and illegal whaling
by the rogue Russian captain, the 15 nations who lend their names to this body
will be acting out a grotesque parody of an international agreement and submit-
ting their names - as sovereign states — to an impotent rubber stamping of wilful,
immoral actions by the Soviet Union and Japan."

Quotas voted at the Tokyo meeting in December went up by nearly 6,000
whales. At the London meeting, little reduction was made in these high quotas;
only 65 more whales were actually protected from slaughter in the course of the
voting as compared with the previous year. Decisions on quotas in the North
Pacific and Southern Oceans for Sperm whales were put off for a special
meeting.

Throughout the year AWI has assisted whale protectors by the provision of
AWI fliers, bumper stickers, buttons, posters and T-shirts and by rental of films
for classes, demonstrations and exhibitions in all parts of the country.

To assist in the development of knowledge of whale populations AWI made a
small grant to the College of Natural Resources, Utah State University for the In-
ternational Conference on the Population Dynamics of Large Mammals. The
extreme weakness of the data base hasplayed a major role in the decimation of
whale populations because the industry has succeeded in persuading scientists
into false beliefs over and over again.

A circular letter was sent May 19, 1978 to over 25,000 friends of whales ask-
ing them to write to the heads of state of [WC member nations to support the
proposal for a moratorium on pelagic (deep sea) whaling. This is the first time
that such a proposal has been made. It was not voted upon because it was
withdrawn under pressure. But this very fact demonstrates the importance of the
worldwide citizen protest against commercial whaling.

 

 

SUPREME COURT RULES TO PROTECT FUR SEALS

 

On January 9, 1978 the Supreme Court denied the Fouke Company‘s peti-
tion which would have permitted importation by the fur company of seal skins
from South Africa. Len Meeker of the Center for Law and Social Policy fought
the case on behalf of the seals in accordance with the provisions of the Marine
Mammal Protection Act. He represented six humane and conservation groups
including the AWI first in the District Court, (Animal Welfare Institute v. Richard-
son, 1976), next in the Court of Appeals, (Animal Welfare Institute v. Kreps.
1976), and then in the Supreme Court, (The Fouke Company, Petitioner v.
Animal Welfare Institute et al, Respondents, 1977).

The questions on which the Supreme Court made its decision were 1)
whether the animal protection and conservation organizations have standing to
challenge a waiver by the Secretary of Commerce of the moratorium on impor-
tation on Marine Mammal products and 2) whether the Marine Mammal Protec—

tion Act's (MMPA) prohibition against importing such products from animals that ‘

were nursing or were less than eight months old was contravened by a decision

by the Secretary of Commerce to permit entry into the United States of skins .

from young seals considered by the Secretary not to be “obligatory for the
physical health and survival of the nursing animal."

In his successful brief, Mr. Meeker cited a veterinary report that .“many-

animals were observed to vomit milk. Their use for pelts would appear to be ex- '

plicitly prohibited by the US. Marine Mammal Protection Act as it now reads."
Mr. Meeker stated: “In the opinion of the Marine Mammal Commission, the ex-
pert body established by Congress in the MMPA, there is no basis whatever for
the notion of ‘obligate Nursing.’ " He noted further that the National Marine
Fisheries Service regulation was “evidently contrived as a means to make possi-
ble the importation of seal skins from South Africa in the face of the statutory
prohibition."

He concluded: “In summary, the distinction sought to be drawn by the
Department of Commerce between ‘convenience‘ and ‘obligate' nursing is
specious. It has no basis in the legislative history, it has been discredited by the
Marine Mammal Commission, and it defies the plain language of the statute.
Promulgation of the Department of Commerce regulation creating this distinc-
tion exceeded the scope of that Department‘s authority because the regulation
modifies substantially the language of the statute it was empowered to ad—
minister. Therefore, the regulation was not validly promulgated and cannot
stand."

 

 

TRAPPING

 

Collection and dissemination of information on the cruel leghold trap and on
less painful substitutes has been a major activity of AWI since 1973 when the In—
stitute published the second edition of Facts About Furs by F. Jean Vinter. M.D.
At this year’s conventions of the American Veterinary Medical Association, the
National Association of Biology Teachers, and the American Association for the
Advancement of Science, booth exhibits featuring educational displays on the
subject were presented by the Institute.

Center of attention was one of the traps victims, a young cat, whose left back

leg was severed when she was caught in the steel jaws as a tiny kitten. She was '

one of the many “non-target" or “trash animals" that suffer the same pain and
mutilation as the fur bearers for which the traps are set. Molly was fortunate in

being rescued and receiving needed veterinary care, including amputation of her ,‘

entire leg after infection set in. She is now a healthy, affectionate animal who has
made many friends at AWI booths and taught them by her presence what the
leghold trap is doing to animals both domestic and wild.

AINI representatives have met repeatedly with officials of tr e US. Fish and '-

Wildlife Service, with designers and manufacturers of alternative methods of
capturing wild animals and with furriers and fur buyers with a view to obtaining
substitution for present painful trapping methods. Testing of a cable—coated leg
snare, now in use in Sweden where the leghold trap is banned, has been in—
stigated as a result of AWI requests.

AWI presentations on the subject have been given during the year on radio.
television, and a lecture film series (The AT&T Pioneer Series) as well as at
elementary and secondary schools.

Material from all parts of the world is being collected with a view to prepara~
tion of a new edition of Facts About Furs.

 

 

LABORATORY ANIMALS

 

A comprehensive survey of animal suffering in scientific institutions as describ-
ed in current journals was undertaken this year. Research Assistant Jeff Diner
has compiled 200 pages of a report to be issued during the coming year. Inten—
sive reading of scientific papers reporting on animal experiments was under-
taken by AWI during the 1950’s and 60’s. The new report focuses on papers
published in the late 1970’s and will extensively cover experimentation in
psychology departments in addition to medical research.

In order to obtain photographs of optimum laboratory animal housing for the
new edition of Comfortable Quarters for Laboratory Animals institutions were
requested to submit photographs and descriptive material of any outstandingly
comfortable accommodation for animals. To be sure that the best available infor-
mation would be included in the publication, which is free on request to any
laboratory, the USDA veterinary inspectors who regularly visit 2,100 research
sites throughout the country were requested to provide a listing to AWI of all in-
stitutions in which they had seen above average quarters. Many of the institu-
tions responded and provided slides and photographs of which the best were
selected for publication in the AWI manual.

The Federation of American Scientists (FAS) issued a Public Interest Report
special issue on animal rights, October, 1977 which made a number of generous
references to AWI’s work for laboratory animals, particularly praising the AWI

film, “Laboratory Dogs” for taking the problem of exercise seriously. Dr. Jeremy
Stone, author of the FAS Report, noted on this subject,

“The extreme unwillingness of the community of experimenters to challenge '

the authority of individual experimenters is evident in the Guide for Care of
Laboratory Animals prepared by a Committee of the National Research Council
composed of ten doctors of veterinary medicine.

“For example, in discussing the ‘widely debated’ question of exercise, it
observes:

‘Confinement in a cage has been equated by some with lack of exercise
and physical or psychological discomfort while regular release from con-
finement has been equated with exercise and physical or psychological
well-being. However, confinement in a cage per se does not necessarily in-
fluence the amount of exercise an animal engages in, and it does not
necessarily affect an animal’s well-being.’

“Having made this hedged. observation, so at odds with common sense, it
goes on to leave the matter of exercise to ‘professional judgment’ and to preface
its very few suggestions with the phrase ‘lf exercise is needed’. Its only en-
couragement to the construction of out-of—cage space for dogs appears as the
‘practical’ reason that ‘In addition to providing more opportunity for exercise
pens or runs also provide a convenient place to hold dogs while their cages are
being cleaned’. In short, exercise for the dog is put forward diffidently as a con-
venience for the experimenter.

“Even these kinds of uncontroversial observations are limited in the introduc-
tion to the guide by assertions of the Guide’s ‘permissive language and intent’,
and by observations that the Guide was not intended to ‘limit the investigator’s
freedom‘.”

Despite this acute analysis, many laboratory dogs are still permanently con-
fined to cages and the effort to obtain their release to decent sized areas must
continue.

 

PUBLICATIONS

 

A research project culminating in an important publication this year was
undertaken together with the World Wildlife Fund, Humane Society of the
United States, Fund for Animals, and Defenders of Wildlife. “The Bird
Business,” by Greta Nilsson is the first comprehensive study of the importation

of birds into the United States. AWI provided major funding, distribution, and
publicity. The 81—page report has been widely quoted in the press, bringing the
tragic destruction of bird populations in the wild to the attention of millions who
previously were unaware of the cruelty to the birds in transit and pressure toward
extinction of species. In the summary under “Mortality Totals for Quarantine
Stations Year of 1976" we learn, “A total of 103,814 birds were either refused
entry, were dead on arrival or died in the quarantine station of various causes.
This figure represents 36.7% of the total number of birds offered for importa-
tion." Quarantine is carried out to prevent spread of the lethal Exotic Newcastle
Disease which cost $100,000,000 to eradicate in an outbreak causedrby a
Mynah bird imported for the pet trade. The major recommendation made by
Ms. Nilsson after completing the study is to ban the importation of birds for com—
mercial purposes for sale as pets. The study has been presented by AWI to am—
bassadors of nations involved in the wild bird trade and to other concerned of-
ficials here and abroad.

In a feature article “The Jungle Crusade of Holly Parrot," initiated by “The
Bird Business" David R. Zimmerman wrote: (The New York Times magazine
section, August 6, 1978) “For each parrot that an owner carries home from the
pet store, Miss Nilsson says, four have died en route. The survivors, even if sick,
can fetch a good price, as she found last year when she visited Parrot Jungle, a
pet store in Queens, with Donald Bruning, assistant curator of birds at the Bronx
Zoo...They found two exotic — and delicate - hyacinth macaws from Brazil of.
fered for $8,000 apiece. and 65 other parrots, most with their wings clipped.
Some of the others were priced at $1,500 and $700. Half the birds in the store
were ill, Bruning said, with symptoms that included ocular discharge, glazed
eyes, patchy feathers, shaking and listlessness, and the store diet was ‘entirely
inadequate‘ for these species."

At press time for this report, Animals and Their Legal Rights was in press with
distribution of the third revision of this unique paperback book due in the winter.
The new edition will be 294 pages long and will cover the substantial amount of
legislation enacted since the 1970 edition was published. It also has several
chapters on subjects not fully addressed in former editions. This original material
was written by distinguished experts in their fields, for example, Greta Nilsson on
birds, Shirley McGreal on primates, Mary Anderson on turtles, and Ruth Har-
rison on animals in factory farms.

In preparation with publication expected in early 1979 is the new edition of
Comfortable Quarters for Laboratory Animals which will be distributed free on
request to scientific institutions to aid architects, administrators, and scientists in
obtaining improvements in the housing of different species of animals in
laboratories, The manual will be over 100 pages long and include 150
photographs.

The following publications continue to list AWI materials which are distributed
free on request to school teachers and at cost to others: “List of Free Materials
Available to Educators,” “699 Free Things for Teachers," “The Rainbow Book,"
“Science and Children," “Elementary Teachers Guide to Free Curriculum
Material," “Free and Inexpensive Learning Materials," “Encyclopedia of
Associations," “The Whole Kids Catalog," and “Educator Index of Free
Materials."

The Superintendent of Science Fairs of the District of Columbia, Thomas
Diggs, this year required that all Science Fair projects be humane. Projects in-
volving animal suffering were barred from exhibition. AWI supplied 250 copies
of the 1977 edition of Humane Biology Projects for use in each high school
science classroom to encourage humane attitudes toward animals.

This manual was put on display at a series of teachers' conventions through
“The Combined Book Exhibit."

During the year the following manuals and reprints were distributed free on re-
quest to school teachers and at cost to others:

1,500 Animal Expressions, 300 Facts About Furs, 14,280 Let Us Live trap-
ping leaflets, 700 The Bird Business, 927 Basic Care of Experimental Animals,
1,322 First Aid and Care of Small Animals, 11,000 Humane Biology Projects,
600 Dognapping booklets and over 20,000 reprints and leaflets.

The Whale Campaign materials distributed during the year included 130.000
fliers, 1,800 Vanishing Giant booklets, 1,194 T—shirts, 1.350 whale posters
1,500 whale prints, 13.500 petitions. 20.000 bumper stickers. 15.000 buttons
and over 38.000 special reports on the International Whaling Commission
Meetings.

 

INFORMATION REPORTS

 

Last year over 120,000 copies of the Information Report were sent to AWI
members, public libraries, the members of the Federation of American Societies
for Experimental Biology, Deans of Medical and Veterinary Medical Schools,
humane societies and thousands of individual veterinary teachers, scientists, ad—
ministrators and libraries who have requested them. The Information Reports
are issued quarterly.

Articles on subjects not already mentioned in this report include a summary of
major enforcement actions under the Marine Mammal Protection Act and the
Endangered Species Act 1976-77 by the US. Department of Commerce begin—
ning with a $5000 fine paid by Japanese M/V Dairyo Maru for importation of
whale meat, including $25,000 in fines paid by Delbay Pharmaceuticals, Dome
Laboratories, Richardson-Merrell, and Almay for interstate commerce in pro-
ducts containing spermaceti, and a $32,500 fine paid by Werner G. Smith, Inc.
for interstate sale and exportation of sperm whale oil and spermaceti (430
counts). Chic—In Leather Corporation forfeited 420 sealskins valued at $11,000.
(Vol. 26, No. 3).

Hearings to Protect Elephants was the title of an article (Vol. 27 No. 1) which
reported on the Beilenson bill, HR. 10083, which was heard in the House Mer—
chant Marine and Fisheries Committee. Although there was no Congressional
action on the bill, the US. Department of the Interior placed the African
Elephant on the list of Threatened Species and restricted importation of ivory as
a result of the hearings. A table prepared by the leading African elephant expert,
Dr. lain Douglas-Hamilton, appeared in this issue showing the appalling decima-
tion of the once great herds in more than thirty countries.

“Eagle Rescued from Leghold Trap” was illustrated with photographs of an
eagle flying with a trap attached to his leg. The photographer and reporter
recommended: “Outlaw the use of the old-style non-offset jaw ‘bonecrusher’ "
He added, “It is obvious that laws relating to bait placement are being violated,
or birds of prey would not be caught." (Vol. 27, No. 1)

“Alternatives for Inhumane Science Fairs" by F. Barbara Orlans, Ph.D., a
member of AWI's Scientific Advisory Committee appeared in Vol. 27, No. 2. It
demonstrated the difference between science fair projects in states without
humane regulation and those in California where the law states: “No live
vertebrate animal shall be experimentally medicated or drugged in a manner to
cause painful reactions or induce painful or lethal pathological conditions...” in
public or secondary school projects.

 

 

MEETINGS ATTENDED AND SPEECHES MADE
BY AWI REPRESENTATIVES

 

American Veterinary Medical Association Meeting, Atlanta, Georgia, July
11-14, 1977. AWI booth exhibit “Animal Problems Veterinarians Can Help
Solve."

American Telephone and Telegraph Pioneer Series, Washington, DC, July
25, 1977 and June 23, 1978. Bianca Beary spoke on “The Cruelties of the
Leghold Trap." _

Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Hyattsville, Maryland, October
18, 1977. Meeting to discuss proposed regulations on care and housing of cap-
tive marine mammals.

US. Animal Health Association Convention, October 19, 1977, Min-
neapolis, Minnesota. AWI President attended Animal Welfare Committee
meeting.

National Biology Teachers Convention, Anaheim, California, October 20—23,
1977. AWI booth exhibit on trapping.

Albert Schweitzer Symposium, Wingspread, Racine, Wisconsin, October 21.
1977. AWI President spoke on Dr. Schweitzer's call for a boundless ethics to in-
clude the animals also.

International Whaling Commission meeting, Tokyo, Japan, December 6-7,
1977. AWI President served on US. delegation.

US. Fish and Wildlife Service, Washington, DC, February 1, 1978.
Meeting with Deputy Director and staff to discuss alternatives to the leghold trap.

American Association for the Advancement of Science, Washington, DC,
February 13-16, 1978. AWI booth exhibit “Should Scientists Who Care, Care
About Animals?"

National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Washington, DC. In-
teragency meetings on US. participation in the International Whaling Commis—
sion meeting, February 21, May 30, June 25, 1978 and in the Copenhagen
renegotiation of the Convention on Whaling, March 13, April 11, 1978.

Albert Schweitzer Medal Presentation. The medal was awarded at a
ceremony at the American Embassy, Tokyo, Japan, April 4, 1978. Miss Yoko
Muto received the award from Ambassador Mike Mansfield.

National Food Policy Conference, “Treatment of Food Animals", April 21,
1978. AWI President spoke on cruelty to animals in factory farms. AWI booth
exhibit. .

American Association of Zoological Parks and Aquaria, Washington, DC,
April 26, 1978. Meeting on legislation and regulations affecting zoos and
oceanariums.

National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland, May 3, 1978. Meeting with
the Director and staff on requirements for humane treatment of laboratory
animals used by NIH grantees.

International Whaling Commission meeting, London, England, June 26-30,
1978. AWI president spoke on circumvention of the IWC by whalers.

Project Monitor, Washington, DC. Attended weekly meetings.

 

Contributions to the Animal Welfare Institute are deductible in computing in—
come tax returns, and donations, large or small, are most gratefully accepted for
the general fund or for special purposes. The extension of the Institute's much-
needed work depends upon such support. Bequests to the Institute will help
guarantee the continuance of its work to protect animals. Please remember the
Institute in your will.

Suggested form of bequest:

[give to the Animal Welfare Institute the sum, of .......... dollars (or if
other property, describe the property).

09

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

 

 

Post Office Box 3650 Washington, DC. 20007

 

Scientific Committee
Marjorie Anchel, Ph.D.
Bennett Derby, MD.
Paul Kiernan, M.D.

F. Barbara Orlans, Ph.D.
Roger Payne, Ph.D.
Samuel Peacock, MD.
John Walsh, M.D.

International Committee

Major C.W. Hume, O.B.E., M.C., B.Sc., M.I. Biol. (United Kingdom)
Angela King (United Kingdom)

T.G. Antikatzides, D.V.M. (Greece)

David Ricardo (Canada)

Godofredo Stutzin (Chile)

Directors and Officers
Christine Stevens, President
Cynthia Wilson, Vice President
Marjorie Cooke, Secretary
Roger Stevens, Treasurer
John Beary, M.D.
Madeleine Bemelmans
Gerard Bertrand, Ph.D.
Christabel Gough

David Hill

Aileen Train

Staff

Jeff Diner, Research Assistant

Diane Halverson, Research Assistant

Lynne Hutchison, Whale Campaign Assistant
Wendy Mettger, Publications Secretary

Nell Naughton, Mail Order Secretary

Adele Schoepperle, Assistant Treasurer
Linda Tyrrell, Administrative Assistant

 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE/ STATEMENT OF FUNCTIONAL EXPENSES

Year Ended June 30, 1978

 

 

Program Services

Supporting Services

 

 

 

 

Public Management Total
Education Save The And Fund All

And Projects Whales Total General Raising Expenses

Salaries $ 26,724 $ 8,460 $ 35,184 $ 6,597 $ 2,200 $ 43,981
Payroll taxes 2,355 1,219 3,574 586 245 4,405
Newspaper ads against commercial whaling 40,375 40,375 4,667 45,042
Publications and subscriptions of educational materials 9,592 3,436 13,028 546 1,560 15,134
Information reports 7,420 487 7,907 294 1,049 9,250
Newsletter releases 2,994 3,136 6,130 656 315 7,101
Humane Biology Projects 4,175 4,175 4,175
Booklets and brochures on specific care of animals 2,388 1,310 3,698 190 151 4,039
Schweitzer Award for service 454 454 454
Promotion banners and media 8,005 8,005 450 440 8,895
Convention lectures 2,236 3,202 5,438 926 218 6,582
Postage, mailing and addressing costs 14,227 10,568 24,795 3.874 2,030 30.699
Stationery, printing and office expense 6,764 5,832 12,596 4,426 1.580 18,602
Professional services 484 484 3,322 3,806
Memberships, annual report and other 888 3,025 3,913 507 266 4,685
Total expenses before depreciation 80,701 89,055 169,756 22,374 14.721 206,851
Depreciation on fixtures and equipment 110 208 318 445 763
TOTAL EXPENSES $ 80.811 3 89,263 $170,074 3 22,819 3 14.72] 8207.61!

 

 

 

Printed in U.S.A.

design: Robert J. Benson / Cachalot Design Group / Marblehead MA

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

 

Post Office Box 3650 Washington DC. 20007

JANUARY JANVIER

 

Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday
Lundi Mardi Mercredi Jeudi Vendredi Samedi Dimanche Lunde Mardi Mercredi Jeudi Vendredi Samedi Dimanche

1 234567 891011121314

 

 

 

 

 

JULY JUILLET

 

 

15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 14 25 26 27 28

Monday
Lundi

Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday
Mardi Mercredi Jeudi Vendredi Samedi Dimanche Lundi Mardi Mercredi Jeudi Vendredi Samedi Dimanche

12345678

 

 

29 30 31

10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22

 

 

FEBRUARY EEVRIER

24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31

 

 

Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday
Lundi Mardi Mercredi Jeude Vendredi Samedi Dimanche Lundi Mardi Mercredi Jeudi Vendredi Samedi Dimanche

1234 567891011

AUGUST Aoﬁ'r

 

 

12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25

Monday
Lundi

Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday
Mardi Mercredi Jeude Vendredi Samedi Dimanche Lundi Mardi Mercredi Jeude Vendredi Samedi Dimanche

12345 6789101112

 

 

26 27 28

 

 

MARCH MARS

13

14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26

 

27

28 29 30 31

 

 

Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday
Lundi Mardi Mercredi Jeudi Vendredi Samedi Dimanche Lundi Mardi Mercredi Jeudi Vendredi Samedi Dimanche

1234 567891011

 

‘ 'I ~ - ‘A-Q .‘\. {‘50:}.1'f'9“ ~

,'yi£»-y.., h.

 

SEPTEMBER SEPTEMBRE

 

 

12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25

Monday
Lundi

Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thrusday Friday Saturday Sunday
Mardi Mercredi Jeudi Vendredi Samedi Dimanche Lundi Mardi Mercredi Jeudi Vendredi Samedi Dimanche

12 3456789

 

 

26 27 28 29 30 31

10

11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23

 

 

APRIL AVRIL

24

25 26 27 28 29 30

 

 

Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thrusday Friday Saturday Sunday Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday
Lundi Mardi Mercredi Jeudi Vendredi Samedi Dimanche Lundi Mardi Mercredi Jeudi Vendredi Samedi Dimanche

1 2345678

OCTOBER OCTOBRE

 

 

9 10 11 12 13 1415 16 17 18 19 20 2122

Monday
Lundi

1

Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday
Mardi Mercredi Jeudi Vendredi Samedi Dimanche Lundi Mardi Mercredi Jeudi Vendredi Samedi Dimanche

2 3 4 5 6 7 8 91011121314

 

 

23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30

15

16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28

 

 

 

 

MAY MAI

29

30 31

w «'3‘.- 7,». ‘

 

 

 

Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday
Lundi Mardi Mercredi Jeude Vendredi Samedi Dimanche Lundi Mardi Mercredi Jeudi Vendredi Samedi Dimanche

123456 78910111213

 

"a _,

J'-

. K
' ' ’, -~1
, ‘
lﬁ'liﬁu'w’d
“4449
, ﬁght” 1‘5
“.zv . ,» r ‘ o‘lr’wv
‘Qi/Amjﬁv . m“. _‘ ' ff ‘ ”((1.4 I
‘.

' I

 

NOVEMBER

N OVEMBRE

 

Monday
Lundi

Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday
Mardi Mercredi Jeudi Vendredi Samedi Dimanche Lundi Mardi Mercredi Jeudi Vendredi Samedi Dimanche

1234 567891011

 

 

14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27

 

28 29 30 31

12

13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25

 

 

JUNE JUIN

26 27 28 29 30

 

 

Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thrusday Friday Saturday Sunday Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday
Lundi Mardi Mercredi Jeudi Vendredi Samedi Dimanche Lundi Mardi Mercredi Jeudi Vendredi Samedi Dimanche

123 45678910

DECEMBER DECEMBRE

 

 

11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24

Monday
Lundi

Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday
Mardi Mercredi Jeudi Vendredi Samedi Dimanche Lundi Mardi Mercredi Vendredi Samedi Dimanche

12 3456789

 

 

25 26 27 28 29 30

10

11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23

 

 

whale illustrations: Copyright Denver Museum of Natural History illustrator: Richard Ellis

24

25 26 27 28 29 30 31

 

design: Robert J. Benson / Cachalot Design Group / Marblehead MA

Printed in USA.

 




 

 

TWENTY- EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT

 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE June 30,1978 to July 1,1979

 

 

 

 

BANNER YEAR FOR ANIMAL WELFARE LAWS

 

Six important actions were taken by the US. Congress this year to improve
protection of animals. They are summarized in consecutive order.

WILDLIFE AMENDMENT TO THE PELLY AMENDMENT

Terrestrial as well as Marine animals are now included in the embargo sanc-
tions of the Pelly Amendment of the 1967 Fisherman’s Protective Act. All
threatened or Endangered species were covered in the new amendment which
makes it possible for the President to embargo all wildlife products from any na-
tion that diminishes the effectiveness of an international wildlife conservation
agreement. The Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of
Wild Fauna and Flora is a prime example.

HUMANE SLAUGHTER METHODS FOR LIVESTOCK

Through an amendment to the Federal Meat Inspection Act. all
slaughterhouses subject to inspection under the Act must now comply with

humane standards for slaughter and handling of cattle, sheep, swine, goats,
horses, mules and other equines. Proposed regulations to implement the new
legislation were issued June 29, 1979 by the US. Department of Agriculture’s
Food Safety and Quality Service. Federal inspectors will be required to stop any
inhumane practices. Imported meat products are subject to similar standards
and may not be allowed into the country if the animals were cruelly killed. Con-
gressman George Brown (D. Calif.) and Senator Robert Dole (R. Kansas) were
responsible for passage of this important legislation.

ANIMAL BIRTH CONTROL

The Agricultural Appropriations bill was amended in both 1978 and 1979 to
include funds for research in animal birth control as a part of animal health
research. Chief proponent of the effort is the Congress” only veterinarian,
Senator John Melcher (D., Mont), who placed particular emphasis on birth
control of feral dogs. an important humane concern both from the standpoint of
the dogs, many of whom are starving, and from the standpoint of livestock they
kill or injure in an attempt to feed themselves and their pups.

PACKWOOD-MAGNUSON AMENDMENT FOR WHALES

Several whaling nations. including the two largest, Russia and Japan, have
heavy interests in fishing within the US. 200-mile zone. An amendment to the
Fishery Conservation and Management Act proposed by Senators Bob
Packwood (D., Oregon) and Warren Magnuson (D., Wash.) would cut fish
allocations by 50% on certification by the Secretary of Commerce that a nation
had violated the provisions of the Pelly Amendment. If the nation failed to rectify
the violation, all allocations would be terminated in a year. Because whaling is a
dying industry while fishing is extremely lucrative, this new sanction is expected
to ensure that regulations and quotas adopted by the International Whaling
Commission will be observed by its member nations who will not wish to risk the
loss of opportunity to fish in the rich U.S. waters.

INCREASE IN JUSTICE DEPARTMENT WILDLIFE
LAW ENFORCEMENT

Four attorneys will soon be working full time to prosecute violators of laws
protecting wildlife. Attached to the Division of Lands and Natural Resources of
the US. Department of Justice, they will devote efforts to ending the smuggling
of exotic birds for the pet trade, illegal importation of ivory and skins, and other
violations of the Lacey Act. Endangered Species Act, Marine Mammal Protec—
tion Act, and other laws on wildlife. Increase in staff and funding is the result of
increased appropriations for the Division.

WHALING MORATORIUM RESOLUTION

Just before the regular meeting of the International Whaling Commission (Ju-
ly 9-13, 1979) the U.S.‘Congress completed action on a Resolution calling for a
moratorium on commercial whaling. Senator Magnuson, author of the Resolu—
tion, spoke eloquently on the floor of the Senate May 15, before its unanimous
passage. Congressman Don Bonker (D., Wash.) chaired hearings on similar
resolutions in the House of Representatives, and shepherded the legislation
through to final passage. He flew to London for the IWC meeting after the
unanimous Congressional vote, an important factor in IWC action at the
meeting.

 

CAMPAIGN TO SAVE THE WHALES

 

This year AWI was fortunate in being able to distribute recorded messages to
save the whales by four stars of stage, screen, and television, Katherine Hep-
burn, Jack Lord, Gregory Peck, and Jason Robards, all of whom generously
donated the stirring calls they made for broadcast. All are devoted to the cause.
The tapes were sent to 3,981 radio stations, many of whom sent back reports on
their use of these public service announcements, and the thousands of dollars
worth of radio time they represented.

Three major trips on behalf of whales and dolphins were funded by AWI dur-
ing the course of the year. Lew Regenstein, Executive Vice President of the
Fund for Animals, flew to Japan for the special meeting of the International
Whaling Commission, December 18-19, 1978, and wrote an article for Informa-
tion Report Volume 27, Number 4, describing the meeting at which a 41%
reduction in sperm whale quotas was achieved, but a bad precedent of secret
Commissioners’ meetings was set.

While the IWC was meeting in the Foreign Ministry, artist-activists partially
funded by AWI were making headlines in the Japanese press by their creative
and fascinating presentations. Martita Goshen, ballerina and choreographer,
danced her beautiful and moving, “A Day in the Life of a Whale", on the pave-
ment before a long picket line of hostile Japanese union members who want to
continue whaling as usual. The dance was seen on television throughout the
country.

John Perry, the well-known whale and dolphin sculptor, is the creator of
“Flo", the hot air balloon in the shape of a life-size humpback whale with a
benign expression and disarming air which charms all who see her -— except the
Tokyo police who took Perry into custody for several hours after he and his crew
carried her down the Ginza. After her appearances in Tokyo. Flo went to Kyoto,
Nagoyo, and Osaka, making news wherever she was flown.

In the spring, John Perry and his cohorts crossed the United States with Flo
whose picture appeared in papers throughout the country. National Television
covered her flight past the Statue of Liberty.

When Prime Minister Ohira paid a state visit to President Carter, Flo was flying
impressively from the Washington Monument to the Jefferson Memorial, in full
view of the two heads of state during the welcoming ceremonies on the White
House lawn.

Flo’s appearance for the Japanese Prime Minister’s visit was evidently
reported to other heads of state as well, for when Prime Minister Odvar Nordli of
Norway planned a trip to Washington a few months later he sought to avoid
public anti-whaling confrontations. Norway is the third largest whaling nation in
the world. By honoring the request of the US. State Department not to hold a
demonstration in Washington, the AWI was given the opportunity to arrange
and take part in a meeting between Norway’s Foreign Minister Frydenlund and
Senator Bob Packwood. This is the first time that the whaling issue has effective-
ly reached top Norwegian policy makers. A major result was the formulation and
issuing of instructions to the IWC Commissioner for Norway, Inge Rindal, the
strongly pro-whaler former Chairman of the IWC, who had been unencumbered
since 1957 by any official instructions. Appointment of a representative to the
Ministry for the Environment to the Norwegian delegation was a second major
forward step. ‘

Just before the regular meeting of the IWC in London, Flo toured France, the
Netherlands, Denmark, and Britain, making friends for whales wherever she
went. Generous donors made it possible for AWI to support these imaginative
ventures in diplomacy for whales.

AWI Ads in the period covered by this report include the Smithsonian
magazine, the Los Angeles Times (twice), Time (Pacific N.W., Pacific S.W.,),
Time Europe (twice), Parade (twice, partial coverage), Orange Coast Daily
Pilot, San Francisco Bay Guardian, Daily Breeze, and Newsweek (Scan-
dinavia). For statistics on whale campaign materials distributed see “Publica-
tions” above.

‘(A report on the IWC meeting will appear in next year’s annual report because
it took place shortly after the period covered in this one.)

 

 

TRAPPING

 

Many of the cruelties AWI is fighting are modern cruelties — new abuses that
have greatly expanded in recent years because of technological research and
development gone wrong. But trapping with the steel jaw leghold trap is an old
cruelty, a dreadful anachronism in a period which, in virtually all other activities,
demands change and novelty.

The Woodstream Corporation (formerly known as the Animal Trap Com-
pany) and the US. Department of the Interior’s Animal Damage Control
(formerly known as Predator and Rodent Control) are the two strongholds of the
leghold traps, from whose excruciating grip many animals gnaw off their own
feet to escape. Woodstream is the largest trap manufacturer in the world, having
bought up its rivals. ADC is the biggest trapping entity in the world, having some
50,000 Woodstream manufactured leghold traps in the field. Neither of these
vested interests is interested in a change in the status quo. Even Interior’s own
internal knowledge is not turned to any reduction of animal suffering. For exam-
ple, when the Department wants to trap an animal without injuring it, it uses a
leg snare known as the Aldrich snare, or it uses a tranquilizer tab on an offset
leghold trap so the animal falls asleep and does not fight the trap. But thousands
of predators and “non-target” animals are caught in leghold traps without benefit
of tranquilizers, and 15 years have passed since tranquilizers were first written
up. Eleven years have passed since the Department switched from leghold traps
to Aldrich snares for bears only.

Elsewhere, cable-coated leg snares, which enormously reduce severe injuries
as compared with the steel jaw leg hold trap, are being developed. used, and in-
deed, according to the manufacturer of the Swedish leg snare, stolen by
unscrupulous admirers of their efficiency. In New Zealand, a comparable device
has been developed, and in Canada, the trappers’ association has expressed ap-

' proval of a newly designed snare. Closer to home, an employee of the New

York State Department of Natural Resources, Elmer Davies, has invented a
snare whose name, “Ezyonem,” expresses the inventors desire to cut down on
the pain and suffering of the steel jaw trap.

Demonstrating the difference is a paper by Jan Englund which gives statistics
on the injuries not only to legs, paws, and toes, but to teeth, gums. and even jaw
bones when the frenzied foxes gnaw at the unyielding steel in a passionate at-
tempt to free themselves from the frightful grip of the jaw trap. In a comparison
test using the Swedish cable-coated leg snare, there were few serious injuries. In
his abstract Dr. Englund wrote: “Foxes caught in steel traps (1651) and leg
snares (123) have been investigated on injuries of jaws and legs. The proportion
of trapped foxes that had worn down their teeth into jaw bone against the iron of
the steel traps is very high, increasing from 19% among juveniles up to 64%
among foxes more than four years old." He concluded “Steel traps are regarded
as cruel and should be forbidden everywhere. Foot—snares are a very good alter—
native."

Capture of freedom-loving wild animals cannot be termed humane even
under the best circumstances. But the monstrous cruelty of the steel jaw trap is
unnecessary for capture, and relatively non-injurious alternatives such as box or
cage traps and leg snares should be immediately substituted. The AWI will con
tinue to encourage adoption of every possible means of ameliorating the present
intolerable situation.

During the year, AWI has been active in bringing alternatives to the attention
of state and federal authorities and in encouraging development and use of the
least cruel substitutes for the jaw trap.

 

FACTORY FARMING

 

In a race to see how much of life’s comforts and joys it is possible to deprive
animals of and still make money out of them, factory farmers have been reduc-
ing the sizes of cages and stalls to a degree that seems hardly credible to the
uninformed.

Veal calves, pigs and hens, are particularly victimized by current industrial
farming methods. There are no regulations or laws in the United States to pre—
vent the most extreme exploitive methods.

In Britain, spurred on by the pioneering book, “Animal Machines" by Ruth
Harrison, a Royal Commission was held, and its report, known as the Brambell
Report after the Chairman, has resulted in a few modest changes and in a
focussing of interest. Ruth Harrison formed the Farm Animal Trust which is
seeking scientific evidence on a comparison of methods used in the rearing of
young calves. The AWI made a grant this year to the Trust to fund a study at the
University of Bristol on the feasibility of raising veal calves in roomy pens with
straw bedding.

A Library search is being conducted by Diane Halverson, AWI Research
Assistant, on factory farming with a particular focus on pigs. A documentary film
showing evidence of pathological mental states in gestating sows confined to
narrow cement-floored stalls in which the animals cannot even turn around, was
first shown at the 1978 World Congress for Animal Protection in West Berlin.
The film was taken by a veterinary researcher at the University of Munich, Dr.
Beatrix Sommer, and a copy was purchased by AWI after it was ascertained that
at least 60% of sows in Germany are subjected to this cruel confinement. The
system, although under continuing debate and discussion of its merits and
demerits in American academic journals on livestock husbandry, is widespread
here also. An analysis of the many papers she has studied and summarized is be-
ing prepared by Halverson.

 

LABORATORY ANIMALS

 

The policy of the AWI on use of animals for experimentation and testing was
expressed in a nine point statement developed by the board and advisory com-
mittee members. It was presented at the World Congress for Animal Protection
in West Berlin, September 25-29, 1978, and published in full in Information
Report Vol. 27, No. 3, together with the text of the speech on animal ex-
periments in the United States at the Congress by the President of AWI. Ex—
amples of punishment, immobilization, blinding, drumming, and forced fighting
were given.

The abstract of the Animal Welfare Policy on the Use of Vertebrate Animals
for Experimentation and Testing states: “Animals should be used for experimen—
tation only 1) when there is no known feasible alternative: 2) after review of a
carefully designed experiment based on knowledge of existing literature on the
subject; 3) using the smallest possible number of animals 4) of the most suitable
species, 5) maintained in an optimum environment, 6) under the care of train-
ed, sympathetic personnel, and 7) preventing pain, fear, and anxiety by
judicious experimental design and generous use of anesthetic, analgesic and
tranquilizing drugs. 8) Endangered species should not be used; 9) Threatened
species should only be used for experiments conforming with requirements for
human experimentation.”

The major government action on laboratory animals this year was the revision
of rules by the National Institutes of Health entitled “Responsibility for the Care
and Use of Animals", effective January 1, 1979. Most significant is the provision
for stopping funding. NIH is the main funding agency for research involving
animals in the United States. The rules state that grantees must follow twelve
principles enunciated by NIH including knowledge of the subject under study
sufficient to justify the experiment and that it should be “conducted so as to
avoid all unnecessary suffering and injury to the animals."

NIH staff and initial review groups are asked to be “alert for procedures or
conditions in the application or proposal that may violate the Principles” and to
bring them to the attention of the awarding unit staff and advisory councils by a
special note. The results can be serious: “If deemed appropriate, the NIH may
refuse to make to that institution further awards involving the use of animals,
suspend or terminate support of specific projects involving the use of animals,
suspend or terminate support of projects by a specific investigator, or suspend or
terminate support of all projects involving animals at that institution." How the
new rules will be applied remains to be seen.

Another government action affecting test animals is the Good Laboratory
Practices regulations of the Food and Drug Administration which went into effect
June 20, 1979. Instituted because of bad conditions in testing laboratories, the
regulations and inspections are not directed specifically at humane treatment of
animals, but improved standards may benefit the animals used.

During the year, interest in development of alternative testing methods grew
substantially. Legislation was again proposed (HR. 282 by Robert Drinan) to
provide funds for the development of methods which would not require the use
of animals, and hearings in the 95th Congress became a real possibility.

 

INFORMATION REPORTS

 

The quarterly Information Reports of the AWI were distributed to approx-
imately 30,000 individuals and organizations including public libraries, Deans of

medical and veterinary schools, teachers, scientists, and other specialists who
have requested the information, and AWI members.

During the year the Federation of American Societies for Experimental
Biology decided to stop selling mailing labels with the names of their members to
other groups. AWI had sent the Information Reports to FASEB members for
years, as the membership grew to some 15,000. At one earlier period, AWI was
denied the right to purchase the labels and Adele Schoepperle, AWI’s devoted
Assistant Treasurer, kept the changes of address current —— a huge task. With
this second refusal, it was decided to end the free mailing to FASEB members,
although we regret the lost opportunity to bring to the main animal ex-
perimenters information that could reduce animal suffering in laboratories.‘

Information Report articles whose subjects have not been mentioned in the
body of this report include: “Transport Improved for Pets and Laboratory
Animals,” by Fay Brisk (Vol. 27, No. 4), in which she wrote, . .hobby breeders
pressured U.S.D.A. for nearly a year to lower the minimum temperature regula-
tions. They insisted that their dogs, even show poodles with large areas of close-
ly shaved skin could survive in frigid weather, making it clear that they were
guided by an animal’s capacity to endure, rather than concern for its comfort.”
U.S.D.A. decided in favor of the animals and did not lower the minimum
allowable temperature from 45° to 35°F as urged by shippers.

“New Zealand Marine Mammal Protection Act," in the same issue, told of the
new law which carries a $10,000 fine for taking any marine mammal without a
permit.

Revocation of a dog dealer’s license under the Animal Welfare Act was
reported in this issue together with the US. Animal Health Association Resolu—
tions for Animal Welfare, including: “We urge the U.S.D.A. to expedite pro-
mulgation of standards for exercise for laboratory dogs.” A short article by Pro—
fessor R.S. Brodey, D.V.M., M.S., described how the University of Penn—
sylvania School of Medicine is reducing the number of animals used in teaching
by using videotapes in their place.

Smuggling of a million dollars worth of trapped furs into Texas and the cap-
ture of the smugglers was described in Vol. 28, No. 1. Other titles in this issue in—
clude: “Wisconsin Frog Dealer Crushes Pregnant Rana pipiens Causing 13%
Mortality" which cited a complaint by the researcher receiving the cruelly
mishandled frogs; “Humane Protection of Animals Office Established in French
Government"; “Cruelty to Small Whales Decried by Norwegian Veterinarian”,
and “Taiyo Loses $20 million in Japan Joint Whaling Company."

Vol. 28, No. 2 reported “Bacterial Toxicity Test Six Times More Sensitive and
192 Times Faster than Conventional Vertebrate Test”; and “Research Awards
Totalling $26,000 Offered for Successful Substitutes for Laboratory Animals."
John B. Oakes‘ excellent article in The New York Times entitled “Trapped" was
reprinted in full. Quotations from President Carter’s memorandum for April 24,
1979. on “Enforcement of International Endangered Species Requirements"
appeared in this issue together with an extensive first-hand report on the Costa
Rica meeting of the parties to the Convention on International Trade in En-
dangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora. The whole of the excellent preface
by AWI Scientific Committee member, Samuel Peacock. Jr., M.D., to Jeff
Diner’s “Physical and Mental Suffering in Experimental Animals” was reprinted
in this issue, as was Senator Magnuson’s statement on the floor of the US.
Senate on his resolution calling for a moratorium on commercial whaling.

"*At press time we find a mailing house sells labels to address FASEB members.
In 1980. Information Reports will be sent to them.

 

PUBLICATIONS

 

The third edition of Animals and Their Legal Rights was published December,
1978, marking the completion of years of painstaking work in bringing the
294-page paperback book up to date. It was offered free on request to libraries,
chiefs of Police and humane societies, and made available at cost price to others.
6,123 copies were distributed in the period covered by this report. Of these,
2700 were requested by librarians and 2900 by police chiefs.

Animals and Their Legal Rights is the only book of its kind in the United
States, analyzing as it does, all US. laws for the protection of animals, both
federal and state, and including appendices in which a sampling of major foreign
laws appear. Titles of the nineteen chapters are: The Evolution of Anti—Cruelty
Laws in the United States; First Federal Laws to prevent Cruelty to Animals;
Humane Slaughter Laws; Laboratory Animal Welfare; Animals in Factory
Farms; Dogs; Cats; Horses; Birds; Laws Regulating the Sale of Small Animals
and Birds; Fighting and Baiting; Humane Education in the Public Schools;
Organizations for the Protection of Animals and Law Enforcement Agencies;
Trapping and Poisoning; Marine Mammals; Laws to Protect Wildlife; Cruelty on
the High Seas; Importation of Wild Animals and Birds; The Law and the
Nonhuman Primate Trade, and International Animal Protection.

A second major publication issued this year by AWI is Physical and Mental
Suffering of Experimental Animals. A Review of Scientific Literature,-
1975-1978, by Jeff Diner, with a preface by Samuel Peacock, Jr., M.D. Its 210
pages cover a wide variety of experimentation including: Eye Manipulations:
Burn Experiments; Noble-Collip Drum Trauma: Radiation Research; Brain
Research; Electric Shock Research; Aggression Research; Stress Experiments,
and Miscellaneous Manipulations. A specialized publication, its distribution has
been largely to scientists. 241 copies were distributed this year.

The completely revised edition of Comfortable Quarters for Laboratory
Animals was in press at the end of AWI’s fiscal year. This 112—page manual
which contains 165 illustrations is the most thoroughly researched and attrac-
tively designed of the several editions of this unique publication, first produced
by AWI in 1954 to meet the need for a collection of photographs and drawings
of laboratory animal facilities which permit scientific institutions to become ac-
quainted with the best existing animal quarters and equipment without investing
in expensive travel. Scientists, administrators, and architects may order a free
copy.

Work is underway on First Aid and Care of Small Animals to bring the
bibliography up to date and to add new material from the Sun Coast Sea Bird
Sanctuary where Ralph Heath and his associates have successfully rehabilitated
hundreds of birds. Publication of a new edition of this popular AWI manual,
widely used in schools since it was first written by Ernest Walker in 1960, is
scheduled for 1980.

Research is being conducted for the third edition of Facts About Furs, written
by F. Jean Vinter M.D. in 1959 for the Universities Federation for Animal
Welfare and revised by the author for publication in 1973 by the AWI.

Revision of The Bird Business by Greta Nilsson had been begun at the end of
this year.

Following are figures on distribution of educational materials during the year:
Animal Expressions, 950; Facts about Furs, 193; Let Us Live trapping leaflets,
10,455; The Bird Business, 398; Basic Care of Experimental Animals, 291;

 

First Aid and Care of Small Animals, 895; Humane Biology Projects, 4,128:
Animals and Their Legal Rights, 6,123; Physical and Mental Suffering of Ex-
perimentalAnimals, 241; Dognapping, 100.

The Whale Campaign materials distributed during the year included:
77,032 fliers, 423 Vanishing Giant booklets, 819 T-shirts, 3,312 whale prints.
8,860 petitions, 13,480 bumper stickers, 12,535 buttons and 3,981 “Save the
Whale" tapes sent to radio stations.

 

MEETINGS ATTENDED AND SPEECHES MADE
BY AWI REPRESENTATIVES

 

Department of Commerce, Washington, D.C., July 26, 1978. Meeting on
sea turtles.

World Federation for the Protection of Animals, West Berlin, September
25-29, 1978. AWI president spoke on ”Crisis in Testing Thousands of Com-
pounds Spurs Interest in Alternatives to Laboratory Animals but Massive Suffer-
ing Continues in Animal Experiments."

International Union for the Conservation of Nature, Ashkhabad, U.S.S.R.,
September 26-0ctober 5, 1978. AWI was represented by Dr. Gerard Bertrand.

National Association of Biology Teachers, Chicago, Illinois, October 26-29.
1978. AWI booth exhibit organized by Bianca Beary. Dr. F. Barbara Orlans
presented a workshop on “The Ethics of Student Animal Experimentation".

United States Animal Health Association Convention, Buffalo, New York,
October 30—November 3, 1978, AWI President presented proposals for resolu-
tions at the meeting of the Animal Welfare Committee.

National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Washington, D.C.,
November 18, December 11 and 13, 1978. Interagency meetings on US. par—
ticipation in the International Whaling Commission.

Environmental Study Conference Display, Washington, D.C., January 23.
1979. AWI presented copies of Animals and Their Legal Rights and other infor—
mation to members of Congress and staffers.

First Annual Fur Fair, New York City, March 17—19, 1979. Anti~trapping
demonstrations were mounted during the furriers' promotional activities.
Frances Lipscomb represented AWI.

Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species. Meeting of the
parties, San Jose, Costa Rica, March 19—30, 1979. AWI President was a
member ofthe US. delegation.

National Science Teachers Association Convention. Atlanta, Georgia. March
22-26. 1979. Wendy Mettger conducted a booth exhibit.

11th Annual Animal Medicine Conference. “Ethical Issues Related to the Use
of Research Animals." Cincinnati, Ohio, April 27-28, 1979. Jeff Diner
represented AWI.

Wisconsin Federated Humane Societies Annual Conference, Lake Delton,
Wisconsin, May 18, 1979. Jeff Diner, author of the new AWI publication
Physical and Mental Suffering of Experimental Animals. spoke on “The Use of
Animals in Research.”

Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University, Blacksburg, Virginia, May
24—27, 1979. Jeff Diner participated in a meeting on “The Moral Foundation of
Public Policy: Ethics and Animals."

“Ethical Issues Concerning the Use of Animals and Agriculture and Scientific
Research," University of Guelph, Canada, June 12-13, 1979.

National Association for the Advancement of Humane Education, National
Humane Education Curriculum Guide Seminar, Dulles. Virginia. June 19-22.
1979. Frances Lipscomb participated.

International Whaling Commission, London, England, July 9-14, 1979. AWI
President introduced John Denver who sang “I Want to Live" to the Commis-
sron.

Project Monitor, Washington, D.C. Attended weekly meetings.

 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

 

Post Office Box 3650 Washington, D.C. 20007

 

Scientific Committee
Marjorie Anchel, Ph.D.
Bennett Derby, M.D.
Paul Kiernan, M.D.

F. Barbara Orlans, Ph.D.
Roger Payne, Ph.D.
Samuel Peacock, M.D.
John Walsh, M.D.

International Committee

Major C.W. Hume, O.B.E., M.C., B.Sc., M.l. Biol. (United Kingdom)
Angela King (United Kingdom)

T.G. Antikatzides, D.V.M. (Greece)

David Ricardo (Canada)

Godofredo Stutzin (Chile)

Directors and Officers

Christine Stevens, President
Cynthia Wilson, First Vice President
John Beary, M.D., Second Vice President
Marjorie Cooke, Secretary

Roger Stevens, Treasurer
Madeleine Bemelmans

Gerard Bertrand, Ph.D.

Christabel Gough

David Hill

Aileen Train

Staff

Jeff Diner, Research Assistant

Diane Halverson, Research Assistant

Lynne Hutchison, Whale Campaign Coordinator
Frances Lipscomb, Executive Assistant

Nell Naughton, Mail Order Secretary

Adele Schoepperle, Assistant Treasurer

Sheryl Sternenberg, Publications Secretary
Linda Tyrrell, Administrative Assistant

 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE/ STATEMENT OF FUNCTIONAL EXPENSES

Year Ended June 30, 1979

 

 

Program Services

Supporting Services

 

 

 

 

Public Management Total
Education Save The And Fund All
And Projects Whales Total General Raising Expenses
Salaries $ 33,587 $ 13,031 $ 46,618 $ 8,783 $ 3,001 $ 58,402
Payroll taxes 2,849 1,037 3,886 728 256 4,870
Newspaper ads against commercial whaling 42,327 42,327 365 27,519 70,2 1 1
Publications and subscriptions of educational materials 4,756 12,157 16,913 68 2,402 19,383
Information reports 4,973 6,899 11,872 419 12,291
Newsletter releases 1,427 1,804 3,231 439 3,670
Animals and Their Legal Rights 15,245 15,245 15,245
Booklets and brochures on specific care of animals 7,554 7,554 7,554
Schweitzer Award for service 1,032 1,032 1,032
Tee-shirts, bumper stickers, buttons & posters 2,258 2,258 746 3,004
Contributions 6,610 3,092 9,702 9.702
Convention lectures & campaigns 5,409 33,309 38,7 18 2,41 1 41,129
Postage, mailing and addressing costs 17,219 10,406 27,625 5,900 1,897 35,422
Stationery, printing and office expense 10,734 5,635 16,369 4, 107 334 20,810
Professional services 125 125 250 3,000 3,250
Memberships, annual report and other 1,988 1 1,469 13,457 524 67 14,048
Research 1,049 1,049 1,049
Total expenses before depreciation 1 14,557 143,549 258,106 26,305 36,661 321,072
Depreciation on fixtures and equipment 355 125 480 160 160 800
TOTAL EXPENSES S 1 14,912 3 143,674 $258,586 5 26.465 3 36.82 1 $321,872

 

Printed in U.S.A.

design: Robert J. Benson / Cachalot Design Group / Marblehead MA

 

 




   
 

 

 

1980 DEMAND A MORATORIU

 

 

 

ON COMMERCIAL WHALING!

 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

 

Post Office Box 3650 Washington DC. 20007

JANUARY JANVIER

 

Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday
Lundi Mardi Mercredi Jeude Vendredi Samedi Dimanche Lundi Mardi Mercredi Jeudi Vendredi Samedi Dimanche

123456 78910111213

 

 

 

JULY JUILLET

 

 

14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27

Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday
Lundi Mardi Mercredi Jeude Vendredi Samedi Dimanche Lundi Mardi Mercredi Jeudi Vendredi Samed1 Dimanche

123456 78910111213

 

14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27

 

 

28 29 30 31

28 29 30 31

 

 

FEBRUARY EEVRIER

AUGUST AoﬁT

 

 

Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thrusday Friday Saturday Sunday Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday
Lundi Mardi Mercredi Jeudi Vendredi Samedi Dimanche Lundi Mardi Mercredi Jeudi Vendredi Samedi Dimanche

123 45678910

Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thrusday Friday Saturday Sunday Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday
Lundi Mardi Mercredi Jeudi Vendredi Samedi Dimanche Lundi Mardi Mercredi Jeudi Vendredi Samed1D1manthe

123 45678910

 

 

11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24

11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24

 

 

25 26 27 28 29

 

MARCH MARS

25 26 27 28 29 30 31

 

  

 

Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday
Lundi Mardi Mercredi Jeudi Vendredi Samedi Dimanche Lundi Mardi Mercredi Jeudi Vendredi Samedi Dimanche

12 3456789

 

- .‘a-A \..-. rm"..-

'0‘] n , ,.

 

SEPTEMBER SEPTEMBRE

 

 

10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23

Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday
Lundi Mardi Mercredi Jeudi Vendred Samedi Dimanche Lunde Mardi Mercredi Jeudi Vendredi Samedi Dimanche

1 234567 891011121314

 

 

24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31

15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 14 25 26 27 28

 

 

APRIL AVRIL

29 30

 

 

Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday
Lundi Mardi Mercredi Jeude Vendredi Samedi Dimanche Lundi Mardi Mercredi Jeudi Vendredi Samedi Dimanche

123456 78910111213

OCTOBER OCTOBRE

 

 

14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27

Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday
Lundi Mardi Mercredi Jeude Vendredi Samedi Dimanche Lundi Mardi Mercredi Jeude Vendredi Samedi Dimanche

12345 6789101112

 

 

28 29 30

13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26

 

 

 

 

MAY MAI

27 28 29 30 31

 

 

 

 

Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday
Lundi Mardi Mercredi Jeudi Vendredi Samedi Dimanche Lundi Mardi Mercredi Jeudi Vendredi Samedi Dimanche

1234 567891011

g», fog/(r mm!
52:”
(931.07,"

' l‘ r 1.95”
5:?

 

NOVEMBER N OVEMBRE

 

 

12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25

Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thrusday Friday Saturday Sunday
Lundi Mardi Mercredi Jeudi Vendredi Samedi Dimanche Lundi Mardi Mercredi Jeudi Vendredi Samedi Dimanche

12 3456789

 

 

26 27 28 29 30 31

10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23

 

 

JUNE JUIN

24 25 26 27 28 29 30

 

 

Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thrusday Friday Saturday Sunday Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday
Lundi Mardi Mercredi Jeudi Vendredi Samedi Dimanche Lundi Mardi Mercredi Jeudi Vendredi Samedi Dimanche

1 2345678

DECEMBER DECEMBRE

 

 

9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22

Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday
Lundi Mardi Mercredi Jeudi Vendredi Samedi Dimanche Lundi Mardi Mercredi Jeudi Vendredi Samedi Dimanche

1 234567 891011121314

 

 

23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30

15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28

 

 

whale illustrations: Copyright Denver Museum of Natural History illustrator: Richard Ellis

29 30 31

 

design: Robert J. Benson / Cachalot Design Group / Marblehead MA Printed in USA.

 




