Nature’s Long Credits

By D. Jeffrey \Villiams

“ [Vail/V695 2m] 0f (lea/mg ail/y zm/am/f/yj condifz'om 2'5 ”afar/tundra!) not one that compe/r m to

comb/62" a IO/i/eﬂf lyzgz'me 071 a my}; Izmir.

5/98 (Zamora/ism m wit/y [012g credits and rack/err oveijdraftr,

and #9677 pat/[5 m 21]) awe/[y wif/y mfmz‘ropbic baﬁkrztpz‘cz'e.c.”——G. Bernard Shaw in Preface to

“ Heartbreak House.”

UBSTITUTE “ cruel ” for “ unhealthy ”

. conditions, and we shall understand why

wars come about, it seems to me. Mr.
Shaw says that political science has been as
recklessly neglected during his lifetime as
sanitary science was in the days of Charles II.
Nature, he says, gave us a long credit, and we
abused it to the uttermost. But when she
struck (by means of four years of war, 1914—
1918) at last she struck with a vengeance.

\W ho can say that Nature has not granted us
a long credit since 1918 in connection with the
many hideous forms of cruelty that we tolerate
in our modern civilisation P \X/ ho can say that
. in this present war we are not being presented
with a 'bill for our neglects and misdeeds P It
is only a figure of speech to say that Nature
demoralises us with a long credit. It is we
who are blind to the risks we run in the aiding
and abetting of suffering and cruelty, in the
condonation of crime where animals are con—
cerned, in the butchery and savagery looked at
from the animals’ point of view, in our active
- and passive perpetrations of the physical and
moral equivalent of war upon animal kind, in
our apparently hidebound insensitivity where
-- pain to fellow creatures "cries "to the high
heavens, in our bland disregard of the hatred
and horror we have engendered in the hearts
and minds of multitudes of God’s creatures.

This is not to be taken to mean that ‘cruelty
to our fellow-creatures in animal bodies is the

only cause of war. It is not. There are other

causes rising from other unheroic neglects and
near-cowardly temporisings and makeshifts.
Are we as gallant a people as we should like to
beP Is our heroism to be confined to that
imposed upon us in a conﬂagration which we
lacked the courage to foresee and forestall P
Is there not a courage which insight gives into
the real causes and real issues of war P Do we
expect to reap peace when we sow for war P
Do we expect to remain at peace the while we
of cattle, fOr
instance, into an enﬁlade of mechanically-
operated slaughtering machines in our ab—
batoirs P
peace, a gauge of our will to peace P Is this
the way to avoid Nature’s “ catastrophic
bankruptcies ” P If so, then we must try to
think again, and try to bring in all the factors
that stand to our debit and credit in the global
accounts of Nature.

remorselessly lure millions

Is this a measure of our desire for

If we now see that un—
healthy conditions of life tend directly to bring
about diseases and epidemics, may we not also
come to see that cruel conditions and practices
tend towards an outbreak of violence such as
war P

The great philosopher Kant is supposed to
have said that War, and the suffering caused by
war, would bring men eventually to a stage
where reason would have brought them, if
they were inclined to listen to the dictates of
reason.
quired, though we must use what reasoning
powers we possess. \We need insight and that
kind of imagination that enables us to see any

Something more than reason is re-

 




suffering as it affects the sufferer, be-the suﬁrerer
human or sub-human. Imagination fails and
falters if it excludes the capacity to feel some-
thing of the pains and joys of our fellow—
creatures. '

Our work in the animal welfare movement
takes on a very signiﬁcant and important
aspect when viewed from this standpoint of
insurance against war. It may take some time
before it is recognised as such, but that does
not in the least alter the position. \We must go
on trying to build up a credit balance on the
side of peace by our work. It is a long—

task, but Nature apparently works on long—

term lines in bringing about the “ catastrophic
bankruptcies ” that are mentioned by Mr.
Bernard Shaw. How important our work is
none can estimate or judge on a superﬁcial
glance. Even in religious circles the full truth
about cruelty to our fellow—creatures and its
inevitable, though long—delayed results, is not
yet appreciated. If from the standpoint of the
theory of evolution, or of the one-ness of life,
or of universal kinship, or of universal law,
we can still be complacent or indiﬂferent to the
issues involved in the wholesale inﬂiction of
suffering and ,prpglty, the real core of truth
escapes uj'and,jyy‘i:t may be counted among

r 7" ' . ii , {3
those who hav *eivﬁsgbut see not l
f: ’_ 5;? P“ V

g,
Q )1 ‘

(Reprinted from Tim Aninzalr’ Friend, April—1144)! 1941, /_2y f/Je Afafz'ona/ C Onnez'l for Animals’
W’elfare, 32, Queen’s Avenue, an’e/l Hill, London, 1V.10, from 22/170772 copier of Z/n'y leaﬂet and a
- specimen 60p} of T/Je Aninm/r’ Friend can be bad on app/imfz'en).

 




