 

 

 

 

 

 

 

BBITISH UNION FOR THE ABOLITION OF VIVISECTION,

32, CHARING CROSS, LONDON, S.W. 1.

Price Two a Penny.

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

ANﬁESTHETICS AND
VIVESECTION.

 

A Statement of the Case.

 

 

SIR VICTOR HORSLEY told the Royal Com-
.mission on Vivisection (19198): “ The Ami-

Vivisection Party have frequently alleged. in
fact it is their whole stock-in-trade, that cutting
operations are done in this country without
anaesthetics.” .

We say nothing of the kind.

Under the Vivisection Act a vivisector may take
out a certiﬁcate to dispense with the use of anms-
thetics. No vivisector would be so foolish as to do
so for a Cutting operation, and thus reveal to the
public that he cut up animals alive and sensitive.
He only asks for the certiﬁcate for the other horrors
of Vivisection (starving, feeding with loathsome
substances to produce disease, inoculation of disease,
freezing, drowning, &c.).

What, then, does he do when he wants to perform
a cutting operation in which complete insensibility
would spoil the result ? We can only guess. The
following considerations show that it is unsafe to
trust him implicitly in the matter.

 




 

 

4
1.

Professor Rutherford told the Royal Commission
of 1875 (when legislation was ﬁrst likely to be passed
dealing with the matter) that in about half his ex-
periments he could not use anaesthetics as they
interfered with the result. Several other vivisectors
pointed out that anaesthetisation interfered with
respiration, circulation, &c., and put the animal into
an abnormal state in which correct deductions were
impossible.

II.

When it was proposed to pass a law that anaes-
thetics were always to be applied, the v1visectors
brought enormous pressure to bear on the Home
Ofﬁce and caused the certiﬁcate to be included so
that they might be free to operate without anaes-
thetics. This was before they realised how light
the hand of the law would be, and how easy they
would ﬁnd it to “see that the Act was harmlessly
administered,” an object which they sought to attain
by the formation of a society to advise the Home
Secretary. At that time there were practically no
inoculations, so the original object of the certiﬁcate
is clearly shown.

III.

Having got the rcpes into their own hands they
announced that they always used anaesthetics,
conveniently forgot the difﬁculties formerly express-
ed, and only applied for the certiﬁcates for inocula- '
tions and other practices !

IV.

Even at the present time, however, we occasion-
ally get a Signiﬁcant allusion to those difﬁculties.

 




5

Dr. Pembrey told the Royal Commission of 1906—10
(14071):

“ I want to bring out the fact that ifone studies the
question of bleeding or transfusion it is impossible
to give an anaesthetic. if one gives an anws=
thetic one cannot study the effect of bleeding
and transfusion.” He also said (14067-68) : “ I
think that painful experiments are necessary. I
mean painful experiments as against experiments
under anaesthetics,” and expressed a wish to dispense
with anmsthetics for cutting operations.

V.

Colonel Lawrie, M.B., gave evidence to the same
Royal Commission to the effect that he had seen
Dr. Gaskell (one of the Commissioners) perform an
experiment in cross=circulation in which the
dogs were “ shivering with agony.” Dr. Gaskell
succeeded in convincing his fellow-Commissioners
that he had completely anaesthetised these dogs.
(N. Bz—Cempare Pemerey’s evidence.) It is possible
that Colonel Lawrie may have been mistaken as to
the exact dose of morphia given, but the Commis-
sioners’ report that “he may well have been mis-
taken in this matter also” can only raise a smile in
View of the very emphatic and circumstantial
evidence he gave as follows :—-(20986-——2 1013)

Was anything said about anaesthetics P—Dr. Gaskell told me that the dogs
had had no anaesthetic except morphin.

What was it that he said ?——He said they had had no anaesthetics ; but they
had had some morphin ; and he led me to understand that they had had it so
as to be able to report that the dogs had had an anaesthetic so as to hoodwink
the Inspector.

I want to know what he said P—That they had had no anaesthetic at all
except a small dose of morphin.

And at that time you say their throats had been opened ?-——Yes.

Did he say that they had had none at all—no anaesthetic at all P—He said
that they had had nothing but the morphin solution.

Did he say how much morphin they had had P——He said ten drops or mor-
phin solution.

Would that in your opinion have produced anaesthesia P—No anaesthesia
at all.

 




 

 

6

Would three grains of morphin produce anaesthesia P—No, three grains does
not anaesthetise a dog. "

Have you experimented on dogs yourself ?—~Yes, I have.

With anaesthetics P --With anaesthetics and with'morphin.

And that is the result of your experiments P—That is the result of the
experiments of the Hyderabad Commission on 600 animals.

You mean as to how much anaesthetic should be given P—They were princi-
pally as regards the effect of chloroform ; and the effects of certain other
anaesthetics were inquired into incidentally.

What Iasked you was, have you experimented with morphin on dogs ?~—Yes,
we have.

You dideYes, repeatedly.

Did Dr. Gaskell say anything as to why they had not had anaesthetics P—He
said they were going to experiment with the chloroform afterwards, and that
they did not give them any chloroform before the experiment began because
they wanted to have the primary effects of the chloroform in the experiment.

And that was the reason he used morphin ?——He did not say that was the
reason they had used morphin. He led me to suppose that they used morphin
simply to comply with the Act, and to be able to say that they had used an
anaesthetic.

Can you remember Dr. Gaskell’s words ?——No, I cannot remember the
words ; but that is their exact meaning.

You have sent me in a statement here that uses certain language. You do
not say now that Dr. Gaskell said it was done to hoodwink the Inspector. Did
he use any such words P—I-Ie used words that had that precise meaning.

Did he use any such words P—I cannot remember the exact words, but that
is the precise meaning of what he said to me.

You must see that it is material to try and remember it. You have printed
this document and circulated it among us with the word “ hoodwink ” P—That
is the precise meaning of what he said to me. _

I think you must really know enough about evidence to understand why we
want to know the exact words that Dr. Gaskell used P—I cannot remember the
precise words that he used.

Then you will not undertake to say that he did use the words “hoodwink
the Inspector ” P—No, I will not undertake to say he did use those words, but
what he said had that precise meaning.

It is rather odd that you should have circulated that ifyou are not sure that
he said it, “ and satisfy the Act ” ; he did say that apparently P—Those were
the precise words he used so far as I recollect : but the meaning he gave me
was that he meant to evade the Act. That was the impression he gave me.

To satisfy the Act P—Yes.

That was the first account you gave me just now when I asked you the
question, and what he said was that it was to satisfy the Act P—Exactly.

He would not have satisﬁed the Act without producing anaesthesia, would
he ?~—-\Vhat I understood was that ifhe was able to say that he had used an
anaesthetic (and he called morphin, I suppose, an anaesthetic for that purpose)
that would satisfy the Act.

That is an inference you can draw from what he said P—That is what I
understood from what he said.

Colonel Lawrie’s reiterated statements, rendered all
the more convincing by his natural hesitation in
refusing to bind himself to the exact words used by
Dr. Gaskell, certainly bear the stamp of truth.

This method is easier than asking for the
certificate.

 

 




 

 

7
VI.

That morphia is used as an anaesthetic for severe
vivisectional operations is proved by the writings
of the vivisectors themselves. It is not so used in
the case of human beings. Sir Henry Morris (then
President of the Royal College of Surgeons) told
the Royal Commission that it is not an anaesthetic
(7799, 7819). He admitted, however, that it may
be considered an anaesthetic only when given in a
poisonous dose (7822). Professor Hobday, the
well-known veterinary surgeon, said : “ I have never
managed to poison more than one dog with morphia
in my life, and I have tried 'with a large number ”
(16430). It was not, he said, easy to give a lethal
dose ofmorphia to a dog. Obviously, then, morphia
must frequently be used as if it were an anaesthetic
when not in a “poisonous dose,” which alone pro-
duces complete insensibility. To show the difﬁculties
attending the administration of a poisonous dose
Tae Britt's/z Medical yam/ital of January 14, 1899,
contained the following :—“This substance (mor-
phia) acts upon dogs as a violent stimulant rather
than as a narcotic, large doses causing excitement
and convulsions.”

VII.

Curare is still used in conjunction with an anaes-
thetic. As this drug paralyses the motor nerves
and makes the animal absolutely immobile, it renders
it impossible to observe if the animal recovers from
the anaesthetic. Professor Hobday was asked,
“ How do you know when your animal has had
sufﬁcient anaesthetic not to feel any pain .9” He
replied, “ By its irresponsiveness to a severe stimu-
1115" (16447). Carare readers respoaszveaess to a
stzmalas zmﬂosszéle, ﬂower/er acutely Me pam may 5e

fell.

 




8
VIII.

When a human being undergoes an operation an
anaesthetist is employed specially to watch the patient
and give more anaesthetic if there are any signs of
returning consciousness. Vivisectional an&s=
thesia is not managed in this way. It is
usually done by rule of thumb, so much anaesthetic
to an animal ofa certain weight, and is frequently
given by. machinery. This ignores the difference
in susceptibility in different animals.

The above are some of the reasons Why
Anti=vivisectionists regard vivisectional
anaesthesia as a misleading excuse. They
do not allege, as their opponents assert, that
the Certificate dispensing with anaesthetics
is asked for in the case of cutting operations.
But they point out that many of the most
cruel vivisectional experiments do not con:

sist of cutting operations at all, and some
of the severest pain has to be endured sub=
sequent to a cutting operation when the
administration of an anmsthetic is quite out
of the question.

 

 

 

F. J. BROOKE, Printer & Bookbinder, 3 Westgate Street, Gloucester. 6024

 




