IN THE LONG BUN.

BY FRANCES POWER COBBE.

 

 

AMONG the many discouragements which fall to the lot of
the opponents of scientiﬁc cruelty—the perpetual fresh endow--
ments of “research” and erection of new laboratories; the
delusive Parliamentary Returns; the persistent boycotting
of our meetings by the leading newspapers ; the antagonism
of nearly the whole medical profession; and (worst trial of
all to many of us!) the coldness and incredulity d6 parti prz's
of friends on whose sympathy we had reckoned—among all
these sorrowful experiences there are some reﬂections of a.
larger kind which may serve to brace our souls for continued,
never-faltering effort.

Looking back through the world’s history we see number--
less instances of the decay of empires, the disruption and ruin
of nations, the return to barbarism of countries once far
advanced in civilization. Nineveh, and Babylon, Memphis
and Thebes, Baalbec and Palmyra, the cities of the Aztecs-
and the Incas, and of the races whose very name is lost
who raised the vast piles now hid amid the forests of Cam-
bodia—all these have perished. Of most of them the poet:
said truly :—

“ They rose, while all the depths of guilt

Their vain creators sounded ;

They fell, because on fraud and force

Their corner-stones were founded.”
But it would appear that among the perishable things of
earth are not to be counted the moral truths which generation
after generation have been slowly acquired by our race ; ﬁrst.
by a few prophets and sages only, then dimly and hesita-
tingly by the multitude, and at last fully and frankly by all
men. There were “Ages before Morality,” as Professor
J owett has called them, for mankind at large, as there are-
months and years before morality for every child. But since-
that far-off epoch when even rudimentary ethical ideas were
inchoate and unformulated, Man, as the millenniums have
rolled by, has grown ever more and more distinctly a Moral
Being. To the earliest and simplest moral ideas—such as
the condemnation of parricide and perjury, and the few
offences which the Greeks deemed deserving of the punishm
ments of Tartarus—he has added the condemnation of
Murder, Adultery, Theft, and Falsehood, and then, under the
guidance of Christ, has made the great stride forward from
the Prohibition of Offence to the Afﬁrmation of positive
Duty; from the “Do not do to thy neighbour that which
thou wouldst not have done to thyself” of Isocrates, to the
“Do to thy neighbour what thou wouldst have him do to
thee;” from the “ Do not kill” of “them of old time” to
the “Love the Lord thy God, and Love thy neighbour,”
which are the “great commandments” of Christianity. Nay

 




 

2

more. Not only has the moral law been better taught, but
the whole moral ideal, has been transformed by Christianity,
and the supreme glory has been shifted from Power to Good-
ness; from Self-aggrandizement to Self-sacriﬁce. From this
loftier standing-ground mankind has taken a new departure
and slowly climbed onward and upward. It has never
abandoned the higher level, in theory, however much it has
fallen below it in practice. It has never receded to earlier
and cruder ethics; and we may feel assured it will never
do so.
“One accent of the Holy Ghost
The heedless world hath never lost.”

As well might our Theology return to Polytheism and
Fetishism, as our Morality and Moral Ideal to the Pagan
level.

It is true that in our age, owing to the general disinte-
gration and reconstruction actively going on through every
department of thought, there appears some danger lest moral
ideas, long accepted as part of Religion, may be shaken along
with the older theology and perhaps lost. Those, for example,
which concern the relations of the sexes will inevitably be
subjected soon (as those which concern Property are subjected
already) to temporarily perilous revision. But let it be
noted that it is not the principles of Purity or of Justice, or
righteousness of any kind which any one dreams of altering,
but only the application of them in some supposed yet higher
and more perfect manner. Socialist, Agnostic, Comtist,
Atheist, Nihilist, all alike urge their theories on ethical
grounds which are fundamentally the same as those long
adopted by the Christian world; nor would the most revo-
lutionary of them so much as entertain the project of a
crusade against Chastity, Honesty, Sobriety, or Veracity.
Let us not, then, alarm ourselves, lest the human race should
apostatize. On the contrary, every order of virtue, it
may be conﬁdently hoped, will be better understood and
estimated by successive generations. The “ magnanimous ”
Englishman of the nineteenth century is much more truly
magnanimous than Aristotle’s ideal. Chastity and Truth
have purer meaning to us than to men of the past; even as
modern Love is an inﬁnitely subtler, more exalted thing than
Greek or Roman, Jew or Indian ever dreamed. And in a
very special degree the virtues which touch the subject of
our work—the charities and sympathies of life—have gone
on visibly widening and deepening century after century,
insomuch that to revert in imagination to the stage of their
development a thousand, or even a hundred, years ago is
almost impossible; and every modern novelist who places
his scene in bygone times is well-nigh certain to fall into
moral anachronism, lending his heroes sympathies with
suffering, and regrets for offences, and “enthusiasms of
\humanity ” all unknown in their day as were photography
and the electric telegraph. Duties of charity once limited
to a man’s family, to his tribe, to his nation, have extended
laterally in ever-widening circles from Jew to Gentile, from




3

Greek to Barbarian, from Aryan to Negro; and no less
obviously have descended perpendicularly through all the
social strata till the vilest criminal-no longer lies too deep to
claim our care.

The mode in which one great step of this extension of the
sense of moral obligation has been effected almost within the
memory of living men, is so full of encouragement for us in
our contention on behalf of the tortured brutes, that it ‘may
be well to recall it for a moment. Five generations ago our
fathers had scarcely conceived the idea (any more than
St. Paul seems to have done) that slavery was per 36, an
immoral institution. The humane Jesuit, Las Casas, when
he introduced African slaves into the Western Continent had
thought he effected a philanthropic work ; and the pious and
evangelical Newton of Olney, never, to the last, gave signs
of repenting the hideous cruelties wherein he had been a
participator as captain of a slave ship. Even gentle William
Cowper (all honour to him!) when he pleaded for “ a man
and a brother,” had little or no notion of the poor, grotesque
Sambo really in question, but evolved out of his own
consciousness a dusky Epictetus who could argue that
“Minds are never to be sold.” Then came the era when
William Wilberforce, sitting under the trees in pleasant Kent,
made the resolution to bring his ﬁrst Bill into Parliament,
and began to plead for the enslaved Negro,——even as his grand-
son, Basil Wilberforce, pleads now for the vivisected dog.
Long was the contest, outlasting the generation with whom
it began. But the victory in the end was greater and more
complete than the ﬁrst warriors dared to hope. And now,
when the scourge of “Uncle Tom” has gone to join in
limbo the rusty racks of the Inquisition, it is noteworthy
how the very idea of holding a man, or woman, in slavery is
continually taken for granted to be immoral, and shocking to
the conscience of mankind. The ethical tide has risen and
covered the ground on which Cowper, Wilberforce, Clarkson,
Garrison, and Theodore Parker ﬂung themselves in waves of
pity and indignation.

Another advance of public moral sentiment is still almost
too recent for us to perceive its magnitude or read the lesson
bf encouragement it teaches us. Not twenty years ago, the
most wretched fraction of the human race—the women
given over to vice—were looked upon as so far outside the
limits of sympathy that the most cruel and tyrannical laws
might be enforced against them without fear of protest from
any quarter. But the doctors (mainly the same who uphold
the vivisection of animals) greatly miscalculated the limita-
tions of the public conscience. A band of men and women,
overcoming all natural disgust and braving public insult,
ranged themselves at once on the side of the trampled victims
of “scientiﬁc” law; and through years of painful agitation
aroused the conscience of England, till—suddenly almost as
fell the walls of Jericho in the story—resistance ceased, and
they carried the day. When Parliament practically abolished
the infamous Acts which had been foisted on our Statute
Books by the medical clique; when Sir James Stansfeld

 




4

carried his famous Resolution condemning those Acts by an
overwhelming majority, even more was done than the
rescinding of one abominable piece of legislation. It was,
demonstrated that the conscience of the English nation is a.
real Power in the State, to which appeal can be made by all.
men and women; and though that special struggle may be
far prolonged, yet we have ground for the trust that, against
that Conscience of England, all arguments based on cowardice:
and selﬁshness are, in the long run, of no avail. '

These are practical examples of moral victories which may
well afford encouragement to us in our uphill ﬁght. They
are instances of the action of that general law of moral
progress on which we may rely to put an end eventually to,
such a practice as Vivisection. In truth, either the moral
progress of Europe itself must be arrested and recede far back
behind the point attained at the Christian era, or vivisection
must cease. There are, as old Zoroaster proclaimed, “Two
principles—a Good and a Base.” We must choose the
“ Good;” the humane, the unselﬁsh, the merciful towards-
weakness; or else the “Base,” the remorseless pursuit of
selﬁsh ends. The two cannot both be accepted by civilized
mankind and taught .to the rising generation. One or'
other must be discredited and abandoned. It will not be‘
because the victims (at ﬁrst I) are only the poor brutes that
the base principle will escape detection. By-and-bye, it will.
be universally observed that a certain body of highly-educated
men, claiming to be in the forefront of mental progress, are
defending a practice to which they devote themselves by
arguments which, so far as they are not grounded on egregious
falsehoods, are all drawn from motives cowardly and selﬁsh,
indicating in those who can use them utter contempt for the
claims of the weak, and utter indifference to the suffering of
beings sentient like themselves, and,—according to their
philosophy,——having the same origin and the same end. As
soon as the dilemma is fairly understood, mankind will choose
between the principle of humanity on the one hand, and the
principle of selﬁsh cruelty on the other. We can have little
fear,—after the examples of Slavery and the vile Acts of
Parliament of which we have spoken,——on which side the
verdict will be given. Were it possible that the nation should
abandon all that the world has learned from the beginning of
moral progress till now, and, deliberately throwing over the
Christian ideal, accept the principle which underlies Vivi-
section,—then it can only be said that the future of England
would be doomed. On such a principle, no civilization can,
ﬂourish. It is a dry rot which, sooner or later, must destroy
the very beams and rafters of the ediﬁce of society.

 

 

Published by the BRITISH UNION FOR ABOLITION or VIVISECTION (in
alliance with the LONDON ANTI-VIVISECTION SOCIETY), 20, Triangle,
Bristol.

 

 

PEWTRESS & 00., Printers, 28, Little Queen Street, London, W.(). 10.99-

 




