|.C.|.
’.GAME
RESEARCHES _

 

 

 

 

 

 

ADVISORY LEAFLET
N 0. l3

PARTRIDG E STOCKS

 

 

June I937

 

 








 

 

 

|.C.|.
GAME
RESEARCH ES

THIS is one of the series of game advisory leaﬂets issued by
the I.C.I. Game Research Estate. It presents in brief form
some of the information as to partridge populations obtained
from the large number of partridge manors all over the
country that have been in touch with the Bureau of Animal
Population or with Knebworth: and our sincere thanks are
due to the owners, lessees, and keepers of these estates for
the help that they are so willingly giving in this direction.

Detailed papers covering this subject have been published
by Mr. A. D. Middleton, of the Bureau of Animal Population,
Oxford University, in the following scientiﬁc journals:

“Factors controlling the population of the partridge
(Perdix perdix) in Great Britain.” Published in Proceed—
ings of the Zoological Society of London, 193 5, pages
795-815-

“The population of partridges (Perdix perclix) in 1933
and 1934 in Great Britain.” Published in the journal of
Animal Ecology, Vol. 4, pages 137—45.

“The population of partridges (Perdix perdix) in Great
Britain during 1935.” Published in the journal of
Animal Ecology, Vol. 5, pages 2 52—61.

Copies of these journals or reprints of these papers are not
available for issue, but can be consulted at the Bureau of
Animal Population, Oxford University Museum, or at public
libraries, by those who wish to scrutinise more closely the
statistical and other scientiﬁc data of which this leaﬂet is a
summary.

 

 




 

 

Though the matter here presented is of an informative
rather than an advisory nature, it is believed that it will be
helpful to the shooting man and his keeper in affording some
index, based upon observation, of what breeding and nesting
stocks, nest losses, hatches, chick survivals, and winter losses
may be expected amongst wild partridges.

The statistical studies of game populations discussed in
Mr. Middleton’s three papers have been made in the Oxford
University Bureau of Animal Population with the aid of a
grant from this Company, and we wish to acknowledge our
indebtedness to the Bureau and to Mr. Middleton for the
highly useful work that they have done.

I .C .I . Game Research Estate
North Lodge

Knebworth Park

Herts

Ix)

 

0?




 

PARTRIDGE STOCKS
AND MORTALITIES

How Many Partridges?

WE are often asked questions such as: “What bag of par-
tridges might we expect in an average season if we had so
many nests on our ground?”; “What stock ought we to leave
so as to be sure of getting so many nests on so many acres?”
The facts and ﬁgures in this leaﬂet, which are derived from
a study of game bags and keepers’ records as well as from
actual counts on many estates, are put forward in the hope
that they may help to answer such questions, and give a
picture of the production that may be anticipated from a
partridge manor in different seasons.

If every egg hatched and every young bird survived till
shooting started, we should get about 1,460 young birds
from 100 nests in a normal season, since the average clutch
size taken from a large series of records is 146. That is the
potential production, which never is nor can be realised in
fact. The keeper’s task is to try to reduce to a minimum the
losses that are bound to occur in every season. This is at all
times a diﬂicult and often a disheartening job, because at any
moment throughout its life the partridge is threatened with
destruction from one cause or another, many of them quite
outside the keeper’s control.

Losses of Nests

The destruction or disturbance of nests is the ﬁrst loss the
partridge keeper has to face. Out of 12,736 nests, recorded
on various estates over a period of years, 2,569 did not
hatch. This is an average loss of 20 per cent. (one—ﬁfth)
of all nests, due to foxes, cats, stoats, human and domestic
animal disturbances, rats, grass-cutting, and so forth.
Naturally the loss varies a great deal on different estates,
according to the character of the ground, the number of

3

 




 

 

 

keepers, and the goodwill of farm workers. On the very best
estates, and with beats of not more than a thousand acres,
the keepers are to be congratulated if they lose no more than
10 or 12 per cent. of their nests. But the keeper who has to
manage, say, I , goo acres of mixed ground, tolerate or preserve
foxes, and rear a thousand or more pheasants, does extremely
well if his losses of partridge nests average less than 25 or
30 per cent. Systems of saving eggs by using dummy eggs
while the birds are sitting have been discussed in leaﬂet No. 5.

Fertility of Eggs

Provided that she is allowed to “carry on” undisturbed,
the hen partridge is the most reliable incubator we know.
Records for nearly a hundred thousand eggs incubated
naturally by wild partridges show an average hatch of 93 per
cent. In some cases the average ﬁgure for a whole partridge
beat works out as high as 97 per cent., and it is very rarely
that it falls below 80 per cent.

Mortality in Young Partridges

To the partridge keeper who has had a successful hatch
and has seen, say, 85 per cent. of his pairs go off with good
broods, the most trying period is from about zoth June till
the end of July. The young birds may grow so fast and
thrive and survive so well that one knows of ﬁne coveys in
practically every ﬁeld by the end of July: or they may die
like ﬂies, leaving “barren” pairs everywhere and only a few
little lots of young ones here and there. At this time, when
the heaviest losses of the whole year are liable to occur, the
keeper can do little beyond keeping vermin right down and
preventing disturbance of the young broods. The heavy
losses among young birds due to bad weather conditions and
disease are at present very difﬁcult to control, but research
and experiments about to be undertaken in fresh directions
at our new game research station will, we hope, bring to light
means of reducing this continued phase of mortality.

Sample counts of young and old partridges made on many

4

0i

4' -45,




estates over a period of years show that, even on the best—

managed partridge manors, the average number of young

partridges surviving up to mid—August is about ﬁve young

per pair of old; so that from 100 nesting pairs there would be

on an average 500 young birds. In very exceptionally good

years the number may be double the above ﬁgure: but in

‘ . unfavourable summers it is found to be very much less——

D) . it sometimes not 100 young reared by 100 pairs of old birds.

This large drop from the original 1,460 eggs laid is, of
course, partly due to the number of nests lost and the few
eggs left unhatched in nests; but most of it is the result of
mortality among the chicks soon after hatching. The actual
chick mortality averaged out from counts, made on one of the
best partridge preserves in Norfolk over a period of thirty
years, amounts to 52 per cent. of all chicks hatched.

Counts and Stock Estimates

Incidentally, sample counts of young and old partridges
on any partridge beat in early August give a great deal of
useful information about the stock of birds then surviving
and the prospects for the shooting season. The method is
very simple and can be used better by the keeper than by
anyone. All the birds seen in a series of walks over different
parts of the beat are counted, all the old ones (whether barren
pairs or trios or birds with coveys) being recorded separately
from the young. When a reasonable sample has been
counted, the proportion of young to old actually recorded

’ gives a reliably accurate ﬁgure showing the survival of the
young over the critical period of juvenile mortality. Suppose,

* as a typical example, you get a count showing 100 old and
W l @ 300 young. That means that the average survival is 3 young
l " to I old, or 6 young to a pair. The keeper can always make

1 a very close estimate of the total number of old birds on his
' beat, since, even if he has not found most of his nests, he
knows where there were nesting pairs: and, supposing this

to have been 100 pairs, then with the above proportion of

3 young to I old, the total number of young surviving will be

5

 




 

zoo X 32600. Adding the 200 old birds, the total stock will
be about 800, assuming that there have been no heavy losses
among the old birds since nesting time.

Winter Wastage and Breeding Stock

The number of birds that should be left on a beat for next
season’s breeding stock is always a diﬂicult question to
decide, especially in the case of syndicates who wish to give
their members as many days’ shooting as possible and yet
provide for next season. The stock to be left depends mainly
on the type of land on the shoot itself and the country sur—
rounding it. Light mixed arable land split up into ﬁelds of
I 5-20 acres with good nesting banks and hedges will always
provide accommodation for more partridges than farms with
a lot of pasture, or open downland country where nesting
cover is scarce. The highest known density of nests (on the
very best partridge ground in Norfolk) is about one nest to
ﬁve acres averaged over large areas, and it is probably futile
to expect more than that, except, perhaps, under quite
exceptional conditions on small areas. We would say that
even on really good natural partridge land a more reasonable
ﬁgure to aim at as a maximum is a nest to eight acres.

From practically all well-preserved partridge beats there
is a considerable loss of stock during the late winter and
early spring, partly due to local movements when the coveys
are breaking up. This “wastage” varies a great deal accord-
ing to local conditions, but in many cases it amounts to 30
or 40 per cent. of the stock. It is a safe rule, therefore, to
leave about 40 per cent. more birds than you hope will
remain to nest; and a good way of deciding upon the actual
ﬁgure is to ﬁnd out the maximum number of nests that have
been found on the beat in any year, and leave that stock'plus
about 40 per cent. This, of course, is assuming that'par—
tridges on that beat have in the past been properly keepered:
otherwise, take the ﬁgure from a neighbouring and similar
beat where the birds have been tended. It is useless to leave
more than 40 per cent. over the limit which the partridges

6

Q».




use-

themselves have shown the ground to be capable of holding,
unless considerable improvements in the environment have
been made.

Partridge Mortalities

The following table will, we believe, be of considerable
interest. The losses that have actually occurred on a large
number of preserved estates, in each case over a period of
years and in some cases over very long periods, under condi—
tions of good, fair, and bad environments, and in bad, normal,
and good seasons, have here been summarised to show the
average losses (from nesting—time one season to pairing—time
the following season) that have been recorded.

 

 

 

Average Average {Avg age
losses in losses in OS S 1nd
very bad normal gfryngoo
Nature of loss seasons on seasons on : tsies Oiizh
estates with estates with S a e W
unfavourable favourable fa vur: bl e
conditions conditions V0 .r.
conditions
Nests lost . . 360/0 20% 7%
Eggs left unhatched
in nests . . 15% 7% 4%
Young birds lost
after hatching . . 900/0 52% 20%
Number of young
birds reared to
maturity per IOO
nests 80 520 1,100
Winter wastage of
stock left after
shooting »was
stopped .. 600/0 30% 12%

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

It is illuminating to consider the ﬁgures given in the above
table and translate them from percentages into birds,
assuming any stated stock to begin with, and remembering
that one is thinking of “averages” and in such vague terms
as “bad seasons,” “favourable conditions,” and the like. Let
us consider what the middle column of the table would mean
to a population of partridges on a beat on which there were
ﬁfty nests, supposing that the various mortality percentages
exactly agreed with the averages given.

The average clutch size being 146,
the number of eggs produced in these

ﬁfty nests would be . . . . . . 730 eggs.
Less 20 per cent. loss of nests . . 146 eggs.
Leaves . . 584 eggs.
Less 7 per cent. of eggs not
hatched . . . . . . 41 eggs.
Leaves . . 543 chicks hatched.
Less 52 per cent. chick mortality 282
Leaves . . 261 young birds.
Plus the 50 old pairs . . . . 100 old birds.
Leaves . . 361 total stock in
August.

To leave the same number of birds
(100) as at the start, for breeding
stock in the following season, add
40 per cent. for winter wastage, as
advised on page 6, i.e. 14o birds to
be left on thebeat after shooting is
stopped .. .. .. .. 14o birds to be left.

Therefore, bag to be shot should
not exceed 110 brace . . . .2221 birds.

The bag actually to be killed, even assuming thatall the
above ﬁgures “turn up,” should, of course, be less, since
there are other losses to be certainly anticipated that are not

8

”W;

 

 




 

w/

 

provided for in the table—for instance, losses between the
count in August and shooting, which will probably not begin
till October. (The count has to be taken before the middle
of August, as otherwise the young birds will not be recognis-
able from the old for the purposes of determining the young-
to-old ratio—see page 5.) Our records show that on a 5o-nest
beat, under the conditions assumed above, the bag to be shot
so as to leave the required breeding stock should be just
under 100 brace (55 per cent. of the total stock estimated in
August), instead of 110 brace ( 61 per cent.).

The experienced and practical men—keepers and shooters
—who read our Game Advisory Leaﬂets will realise without
our emphasising it that the above hypothetical history of a
season’s birds and bags is not a guide to the bag that may be
taken, irrespective of the season, off a ﬁfty—nest beat, but is
merely an illustration of the average results given by a mass
of ﬁgures that have been revealed under differing conditions
on a number of estates.

Mortality Reduction

We will not here discuss the methods by which these very
high natural mortalities can perhaps be lowered. In the
hatching percentages probably little, if any, improvement
can be made by human endeavour (the ﬁgures, indeed, being
already comforting); while the percentage ﬁgure for loss of
nests is a matter of local difﬁculties or the reverse, and of
good keepering. But in the general improvement of environ—
ment and “conditions” for partridges and the introduction
and maintenance of stronger stocks, with a resulting improve—
ment in the ﬁgures for chick mortalities and winter wastages,
much, we believe, remains to be done. The methods of
partridge management discussed in previous leaﬂets of this
series are, we claim, already proving helpful in these direc-
tions: and we are conﬁdent that other methods of reducing
the present natural mortalities will be disclosed in the course
of the fresh work on nutrition and diseases that we are now
undertaking.

 




 

 

PRINTED IN ENGLAND
AT THE KYNOCH PRESS
BIRMINGHAM

325/43/637

0%)

l)




 




 

 

O)
C)

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 




 

 




