BLOODED !

(The smearing of children's cheeks—“ initiated into

the mysteries of the Chase " -it is called in hunting

circles—with blood from the brush or pads of a fox
or other animal killed in hunting.)

"A corruption of youth" (Sir Philip BurnerJones, BL)

To “ oiliend ” against the nature of a child is an anti—social
act and one of the greatest wrongs which can be done to any
community. Unfortunately, the social sense in this connection
is not yet very highly developed, and there aremany different ideas
as to what constitutes an “ offence” against a child. Whatever
this may be, however, most pe01_)le are agreed that to smear a
child’s face with the blood of a fox hunted to (loath—ms is done

 




with the children of hunting parents—is a disgusting and
degrading thing to do. It is a pagan rite as loathsome as it is
Silly, and is not only revolting, but an insult to the child nature
and thus. to children everywhere.

With this thought in mind, one feels that something of an
apology is due for daring to set these little ones in the picture
in our midst in this way. In doing so, one would not seek to
shield themselves behind the fact that the \“ blooding ” of
children is a convention of hunting society, that the picture was
taken without any (apparent) objection by the parents, or that
the picture of the girl had already been given to the world in
a daily newspaper. One only gives publicity to the pictures and the
relative facts because of the issues involved, and because, even
though there is a “ woe ” attaching to those by whom offences
come, it is an abiding, if bitter, truth that some one here and
another there must suffer so that Truth may be vindicated and
.l’rogress made.

But these are the standards of the Old Order, and are coarse
and barbarous. The New Order demands humane and reﬁned
standards, and it is futile, as Lowell tells us, to “attempt the
Future’s portals with the Past’s blood—rusted key.”

ee * 96 ee

When the picture of the little girl appeared in the newspaper
referred to, many strong protests were made. A few were
printed, the majority, naturally, were not. The following are
extracts from some of those which were inserted:——

“D. M.” was “astonished” that such a picture had been
passed for publication. “ Surely,” he continued, “nothing more
loathsome and beastly can be imagined by clean-minded people
than the covering of an innocent child’s face with the fresh blood
of a hunted and tortured animal.”

“ R. H. P.” expressed his “ abhorrence of the ghastly custom.”

“ E. L. ll. C.” warmly endorsed the. letter of “D. M,” and
expressed the opinion that the majority of the readers 'of the
paper looked to it to “condemn. all forms of unnecessary cruelty.”

“ L. H'. D. l5.” agreed that “ the ceremony known as ‘blooding’

is a very stupid and obviously nasty institution.”

“ Rev. S. R.” wrote of the “ ﬁlthy and iniquitous” blooding
of a child, as “a rite worthy of Nigerian savages.”

Of those letters not printed, the following is an extract from
one which may be allowed to stand as representing the others:—

“The picture is an insult not only to the particular child
i‘e1_n'esented, but to all children everywhere, whose innocence and
helplessness it should be the chief Object of parents and the
community jealously to conserve and cultivate.” He concluded
by asking what had the Church to say in the matter, and also
“ what would the denizens of Darkest Africa say about such a
proceeding in Christian England?” . H. B. A.

 

N.B.~wl lumanitarians will greatly help the work of the League
by notifying the Secretary of anyone interested, so that leaﬂets
may be sent to them; by purchasing and distributing our leaﬂets;
by organising a Group of those interested in a district, and by
sending Press cuttings (with name and date of paper) of cruel
sporting incidents, so that these may be followed up promptly.

DONATIONS in aid of the work are needed and, no matter
how small, will be warmly welcomed by Mr. Ernest Bell,
Treasurer. Membership of the League, 55. per annum.

Price éd. each, 50 for I/- port free.
LEAGUE FOR PROHIBITION OF CRUEL SPORTS,
YORK HousE, PORTUGAL STREET, LONDON, W.C.2.

 




