cries, I assume, is "animal rights," and though I would be the first to admit that a
more careful theolgical basis than the one I have proffered is needed, the burden of
supplying one must understandably pass to more qualiﬁed hands than my own.
One ﬁnal practical point. Pinches acknowledges that he is not a vegetarian,
although, as he says, "the logic of the position [he] is developing is not incompatible
with vegetarianianism." [1.8] "In any case," he goes on to add, "what is clearly
excluded by [his] view is modern factory farming that turns all animal species it
touches into one thing. meat." [19] This is an important point of practical agreement,
notwithstanding the apparent theoretical disagreements that separate us, especially
in view of the fact that virtually a_ll "meat" is produced by factory farms. I for one
cannot help believing that the well-being of Pinches's "right sort of person" would
be diminished by the grotesque suffering and needless death of these animals, if and
when such persons as these become familiar with factory farming methods. In this
respect, then, the authors of the Annecy Report would have welcomed Pinches's
presence in the open, public debate about the Report's condemnation of factory

farming which, thanks to the political zeal of special interest lobbying the WCC

apparently lacked the courage or wisdom to organize.

 




-2-

Over two hundred thousand women died of sexual abuse. Then, immediately
after the liberation from Japanese rule in 1945, the United States and
the Soviet Union divided the peninsula. The Korean people were not
consulted. Family members were separated against their will, and eighty
thousand of the three hundred thousand Cheju islanders who protested the
division of the peninsula were killed by Korean soldiers under the Far
East command of the United States. Most of the victims were male. Now the
island is famous for three things: strong winds, volcanic rocks, and its
many women. Indeed, Cheju has become a center of international sex
tourism. There are houses of prostitution with three to five hundred
'wcmen in each. Meanwhile, polluting industries have been exported to the
southern parts of the peninsula. Not only the land, air and water have
been harmed. Recently, tens of thousands of people mourned the death of a
fifteen-year-old boy who died of toxic poisoning as as result of working
for only six months in a mercury-producing factory. A once united land
has become a land of violence, division, and exploitation.

In each of these and myriad other situations, integral communities
of people, animals, plants, and land have been neglected and destroyed.
In many cases the foreign powers have come from the West, accompanied by
inadequate Christian perspectives -- what Korean Minjung theologians call
"division theologies" -- which themselves became a source of community
disintegration. The disintegration of these Communities as a result of
this assault by_foreign powers, sometimes with the collaboration of
indigenous elites, has had tragic consequences.

What characterizes a "division theology"? In its neglect and disdain
for. living communities, it has at least two features. The first is an
arrogant approach gpnature. The land and its creatures are objectified
as mere tools for human use. The value of plants, animals, and land in
their own right -- as expressions of the Source and dynamic Presence of
life itself, called Modimo by some Africans, and. Hanulnim in Korea -- is
forgotten. Moreoever, those who See non-human life in'this way also often
see human life in a similar manner. People become objects. The second
features of "division theology" is that it is male-centrered. This way of
thinking subordinates nature 'to human exploitation, the poor and
destitute to the privileged and powerful, and wcmen to control by men.

In response to the massive destruction of all forms of life, a
theology that serves the liberation of life is needed. Such a theology
must offer a view of creation that moves beyond arrogant anthropocentrism
and promotes respect for communities of life in their diversity and
connectedness to God. Moreover, the theology we need should welcome
contributions from many voices, from those who have been heard, and
especially from those who have not. Finally, and perhaps paradoxically,
this new theological vision pranises to liberate those who, often
unwittingly, are parties to oppression. Just as it liberates the
victimized, humans and other living beings, a theology for the liberation
of life can liberate people of privilege and power from their complacency
and isolation. A theology that so serves the liberation of life is a
theology of justice, peace, and respect for the integrity of creation.

 




come in two kinds only -- either intrinsic g instrumental. Any number of other
kinds of values, including certain virtuous character traits, as well as aesthetic and
spiritual values, for example, can consistently be recognized by this philosophy.
Moreover, even within the category of instrumental values, it is important to
realize that this philosophy can insist upon strict limitations on human freedom.
Aside from the possible aesthetic and other sorts of value they may possess, the
philosophy of animal rights will recognize the instrumental value of croplands. But
in categorizing croplands as having instrumental value, one does not imply that
they may be used in any way one pleases.

Croplands have instrumental value relative to the legitimate human purpose
of raising food, but they have this value not only relative to present but also to
future generations of human beings. Moreover, how croplands are treated also
impacts upon mail; the diversity and sustainability of the larger nonhuman
ecosystem of which they are a part a_n_q the nonhuman animals who make their
home within these ecosystems. Today‘s dominant agricultural approach to raising
crops (chemicially intensive, monocultural agriculture) can be faulted on all these
grounds -— first, because it is not a sustainable form of agriculture and thus imperils
the interests of future generations of human beings; second, because it causes
enormous damage to ecosystems as a whole; and third, because it is highly
detrimental to individual land and aquatic animals who, by being subjected to
chemical run-offs and other harms, suffer and die. [ 13 ]

Thus, even croplands must be treated appropriately (that is, in ways that are
consistent with the legitimate human good they serve), according to the animal
rights position, which is why it may be misleading to say that they "have merely
instrumental value." For in saying this, it is easy to infer that it does not matter how
they are treated, an inference which, for the reasons just given, is simply mistaken.

More generally, to say that something has instrumental value, viewed against the

backdrop of the philosophy of animal rights, does not mean that we are at liberty to

treat it in any way we please. If, in view of these observations, someone wants to
insist that "appropriate use" should be viewed as a matter of "strict justice," one

need have no quarrel, just so long as it is recognized that the logic of what is owed

 




breach than in the observance. Everybody knows, for example, that animal rights
"terrorists" are pouring blood on people who wear fur coats in New York City. And
everybody thinks this shows just how "extreme," how "fanatical" these
Bambi-loving "terrorists" really are. The fact that there has not been a single
recorded instance of such vandalism in New York, a fact conﬁrmed by New York
City police and (reluctantly) conceded by representatives of the fur industry, shows
just how successful special interest groups are in manipulating the media and, with
this, in moulding public opinion.

The fate of the Annecy Report, then, is just one chapter in a larger political
story, a story with a recurring plot: Do what needs to be done to protect vested
interests in animal‘exploitation. If this means misrepresenting the ideas of those
who challenge these interests, or demeaning their character, or insulting their
intelligence, or spreading false rumors, then so be it. Thus the real tragedy of the fate
of the Annecy Report lies, not in the fact that it was not incorporated into
subsequent WCC deliberations and programs, but (assuming Mr. Cooperud is
correct) in the fact that "the leadership" of the WCC was a victim in a small but
important chapter of this larger political story, as was the good—faith trust of the

authors of the Annecy Report. Unless or until the WCC and other representatives of

Christianity realize that they are not immune to the politics of pejoration, there is

no hope that an informed, compassionate Christian response to the issue of animal

rights will be forthcoming.

THE PHILOSOPHY OF ANIMAL RIGHTS

In addition to matters political, there are substantive moral and theological
questions that must be addressed. What are the grounds, and how strong are they,
for attributing Ligm to nonhuman animals? Which animals, if any, have rights,
and mat rights do they have? [More fundamentally, what does it w to speak of
someone's "rights"? And how, if at all, can an infOrmed Christian theology.
accOmodate "the rights of animals"? I have addressed these questions at length

elsewhere. What I offer here is a summary of my position, and a very condensed

 




-10...

communities into unsustainable ones. But an ethic for the liberation of
life goes only part of the way if it ends there. It should be extended to .
the well-being of individual organisms. This is the subject of section}. 4:,

3. Thé‘Mainténa‘nce of Biological Diversity

Throughout the history of life numerous species have becane extinct.
Human activity from early times has increased the rate of extinction.

With the vast growth of human population and economic activity in this
century the rate of extinction hasaccelerated.

There are many reasons to be concerned. Much of potential value to
human beings is lost. Innumerable creatures that should be respected are
being destroyed instead. The rich diversity of plant and animal life
which, according to Genesis, God saw to be, in community with human

beings, "very good", is being simplified. The life of God is impoverished.

Although attention is often focused on efforts to protect some
endangered species, such as the California condor, by quite artificial
means, the major cause of extinction is destruction of habitat. In
general, habitat has been wilderness, and the human 'pressure on
wilderness has greatly reduced it on every continent. The lessening of

this pressure is a matter of moral urgency. Instead of viewing wilderness
as empty or undeveloped, we must learn to see it as full of life, often

far richer and more diverse than what we call "occupied" or "developed"
land. Wilderness is usually able to sustain a vast diversity of life for

tens of thousands of years, whereas "development" often leads to great
reduction of this diversity and sometimes to the inability to sustain

even that for extended periods. The attitude of conquest should give way
to reverence toward the integrity of these parts of creation.

4'. Respect‘for Individual Animals

The biblical and theological messages about the value of animals
speak with one voice: Animals do not exist for the sake of the unbridled
pursuit of human avarice and greed. And yet the increasingly powerful
transnational corporations prefer that people not know, or not care,
about the pain and death literally billions of animals are made to suffer
every year, in the name of corporate mass-production and consumer
over-consumption. Some examples follow.

Cosmetics and household products.

Many areas of the world have an abundance of toothpastes, colognes,
after-shaves, deodorants, perfumes, powders, blushes, detergents, oven
and window Cleaners, furniture and floor polishes, and other cosmetics
and household products. This is well known. What is not wel'l known is
that these items routinely are tested on animals in a variety of painful
ways, including acute eye-irritance and skin-irritance tests as well as
so-called "lethal dose" tests, in which animals are force-fed a deodorant

 




CHRISTIANITY AND THE OPPRESSION OF ANIMALS

TO M RE GAN

THE POLITICS OF ANIMAL RIGHTS

Recently, I was privileged to share the platform with America's most eminent
contemporary theologian, John Cobb. The occasion was the annual Vosburgh
Lectures at Drew University's School of Theology. Our respective contributions
addressed the Christian church's response to animal rights, broadly conceived. Cobb,
who was first to speak, began by making reference to the historically important
Annecy document, which is reproduced in this volume. Entitled "Liberating Life: A
Report to the World Council of Churches" (hereafter the "Annecy Report"), this
document, as Cobb duly noted, has had a paradoxical history. On the one hand,

animal rights advocates from throughout the world have greeted it with

thunderous applause, and understandably so. In view of the Annecy Report's strong

condemnation of buying fur and its recommendation to "avoid meat and animal
products that have been produced on factory farms," for example, partisans of
animal rights believed that they were witnessing encouraging signs that the
Christian church was beginning to rouse itself from its dogmatic slumbers regarding
nonhuman animals. On the other hand, however, there is no evidence that the
Annecy Report's section on "Respect for Individual Animals" or its practical
recommendations concerning what Christians can do to advance the cause of
animal liberation have had any inﬂuence whatsoever on subsequent WCC thinking

or WCC programs. It is not as if the Annecy Report's contents have been publicly

 




THEOLOGICAL SPECIESISM

Minds far more versed than mine have addressed the question of the Christian
faith's position vis-a-vis the moral status of nonhuman animals. Most have
reached conclusions that differ from those reached by the philosophy of animal
rights. A small minority have reached the same conclusions. [ 4 ] If we had reason to
suppose that truth could be determined by taking a vote, the truth in this case would
be clear. But, of course, we must all agree that truth is not purchased by the coin of
majority opinion. It remains possible, therefore, that, as has been true in other cases,
so in this one: the minority Christian view may be the correct one. How might one
attempt to show that it is? A detailed response to this question is beyond my
abilities. All that I can offer -- and on this occasion even this will be sketchily drawn
-- are the broad outlines of a larger landscape of ideas. [ 5 ]

One challenge asserts itself immediately. The phi1050phy of animal rights takes
individual animals seriously; arguably, the locus of value for an informed Christian
theology is species and, allied with this, the diversity of life not the individual.
Following Charles Pinches, [ 6 ] we might term this "theological speciesism," a view
he evidently favors over animal rights. Commenting on Genesis 1:20-24, Pinches

writes that "in this seminal passage various kinds of creatures are mentioned, and

emphasis is placed upon the multiplicity of kinds, implying that this multiplicity

 

was God's idea but that God delighted in each kind in its uniqueness and divers-
ity." [ 7 ] Moreover, later in this same essay, where he directs his comments to the
idea that human beings are given "dominion" over creation, he writes that "the
dominion over creation offered humans in Genesis 1:28 can be well understood in
terms of the unique human role as caretaker of diversi y." [ 8 ] Thus, because the
philosophy of animal rights [ 9 ] does not recognize the rights of species as such, and
in view of the importance of species diversity, according to Finches, in an informed
Christian theology, it would seem that the two ideas -- the philosophy of animal

rights on the one hand, and Christian theology on the other -- are necessarily at odds

with one another.

 




-6—

transcendence of it. In the light of the incarnation, the whole universe
appears to us as God's "body". Just as we transcend our bodies, so also
the divine spirit transcends the body of the universe. And, just as we
are affected by what happens to our body, so also God is affected by what

happens in the world. The sufferings and joys of people and other
creatures are shared by God.

When we express the relationship between God and the world (or
universe) in organic images, several things beccme clearer. First, all of
us, human and other living creatures live together within this body - we
are part of each other and can inno way exist separately. Second, unlike
the king-realm image which is hierarchical and dualistic and encourages
human beings to adopt similar postures toward other members of their own
species as well as toward other species, the organic symbolism
underscores the inherent worth of all the different parts of the body,
different species as well as individuals within those species. Third,
while the body metaphor has been used since the time of Paul to express
the relationship among Christians (we are all members of the body of
Christ, the Church -- I Cor. 12:12-26), extending it to the cosmos (we
are all members of the body of God, the universe) places us in intimate
relations with all our fellow human beings as well as with all other
forms of life. We not only eﬁphathize with all who are oppressed and
suffer ’..‘. victims of war and injustice, both hunans and other living
creatures -- but we also feel responsibility for helping to bring about
peace and justice to the suffering members of God's "body".

God's glory and God's closeness are expressed in this image. We
stand in awe of the One upon whom this universe depends, whether we view
it through a telescope in which its vastness enthralls and terrifies us
or through a microscope in which the intricate pattern of the veins of a
leaf amaze us. And at the molecular level of life, the complex and
beautiful structure of the DNA molecule that can exist in an indefinite
variety of forms gives us a sense of awe and wonder. We also, each of us,
are part of this universe, this body, in which God is present to us. We
feel God's presence here in our world as we touch one another, love and

serve one another, that is, all the others that make up the fabric of
existence. - '

Our scripture speaks of the cosmic Christ (Coll. I), the presence of
God in the cosmos, God's embodiment, God's "incarnation". In this image
of divine embodiment, we have a helpful way of talking about creation
that is biblical, consonant with contemporary science, and experientally
illuminating. The universe, everything that is, each and every living
thing and the ecosystem that supports all things, is bound together,
intrinsically and inextricably, with its creator. Within this bond, the
oppression of life is our common history: the liberation of life is our
common responsibility and our common hope.

 




- 14 -

in their natural empathy with and compassion for animals, and this means
that certain traditional practices in their education, including in
particular compulsory dissection, will have to be altered. Clearly, the
struggle to liberate life is not for the faint of heart.

Yet just as clearly it is a struggle no thoughtful Christian can
avoid. When St. Paul says that "the whole creation has been groaning in
travail together until now", he speaks to our time and our circumstances.
For the animals have been groaning, though we have heard them not. We
hear them now. Theycry for justice. We cannot fail to answer.

CONCLUSION

The theme of this report is "the liberation of life". Increasingly
during this century Christians have come to understand the gospel, the
Good News, in terms of freedom, both freedom from oppression and freedom
fo__r_ life with God and others. Too often, however, this freedom has been
limited to human beings, excluding most other creatures as well as the
earth. This freedom cannot be so limited because if we destroy other
species and the ecosystem, human beings cannot live. This freedom should
no___t_ be so limited because other creatures, both species and individuals,
deserve to live in and for themselves and for God. Therefore, we call on
Christians as well as other people of good will to work toward the
liberation of life, all life.

 




considered, debated, and rejected on their merits; it is, rather, that they have been
publicly ignored.

John Cobb offered a number of possible explanations for the WCC's deafening
silence. One was the oft-heard claim that “there are many other, more important
issues than animal rights," another, the possible WCC fear of being publicly
associated with "animal rights fanatics." And there were other, more substantive
possible explanations that Cobb ennumerated (for example, that Christian thought is
more systemic, less individualized when it comes to its understanding of
nonhuman animals). When the time came for my presentation, it was my unhappy
duty to offer an explanation of a very different kind.

In January of‘1991, in Phoenix, Arizona, the American Farm Bureau held its
annual conference. A highlight of the conference was a session on the animal rights
movement. Among the featured spegkers were United State Representative Vin
Weber (R—MN ) and Steve Co perud, president of tlée North American Feed
Industry Association. Someone asked Mr. Coplperud a general question about
religion and animal rights and, in the course of giving his answer, he referred
explicitly to the Annecy Report. Here, in part, is what he said (the uotati%n that
follows is excerpted from a trascription of an audio-tape of Mr. Co pemdf remarks).

Just so you all know, we spent three months convincing the World
Council of Churches, to drop out of its coming encyclical [sic], a ﬂat-out
statement condemning factory farming in the Western hemisphere . . .
[The leadership of the WCC] admitted . . . that they had never looked at it
[that is, factory farming], that they didn't know what factory farming
meant . . . They have since dumped it [that is, the condemnation of
factory farming].
If Cooperud is right, then, the leadership of the WCC was moved to "dump" the
Annecy Report' 3 sections on factory farming, not for substantive theological
reasons, but because representatives of the North American Feed Industry
Association "spent three months convincing (them) to drop" it. While, in short, the

authors of the Annecy Report slept, naively assuming that their report would be

judged on its merits, representatives of the North American Feed Industry

 




summary at that. [ 2 ]

Suppose we start with the question, “What rights do nonhuman animals
have?" And suppose we limit our discussion of this question to just one right,
namely, the right to be treated with respect. This is a right I believe we recognize in
the case of human beings. What it amounts to is this: human beings are not to be
treated merely as a means to someone else's ends, whether this "someone else" is
another individual human being or some larger collection of humans (for example,
"the State"). Other ways of expressing this same point are (I) that my moral status in
the world is not reducible to my being your or anyone else's resource, and (2) that
my moral status in the world is not reducible to any potential instrumental value I
might have for you or anyone else. I have my own life to live, and this life is of
value to me apart from any possible utility I might be to you. In this sense, one
might speak of human beings as having "inherent wort " or "intrinsic value," in
contrast to a pencil or a nail ﬁle, for example. Thus, to use deceit or coercion against
me, for example, in the name of furthering your ends, is to fail to treat me with
respect. It is to treat me as if I am morally on a par with a pencil or nail file. And
because this kind of treatment -- respectful treatment -- is something I am owed, not
out of kindness but as a matter of strict justice, it is a kind of treatment I can claim as
my m it is something to which I am entitled simply because I am the human
person I am; it is not a right I have to "earn."

The preceding helps answer the question, “What does it mean to speak of
someone's 'rights'?" Fundamentally, rights are valid claims that limit the freedom
of moral agents. If I have a right to be treated with respect, then you must -- morally,
you must -- limit your freedom in how you treat me. Morally, you are not at liberty
to lie to me merely because you will benefit, nor can you phyiscally assault me or
force me to run your risks for you, for this same reason.

Thus, to speak of "animal rights" is first and foremost to say that there are

morally valid limits on how we may treat nonhuman animals. Moreover, these

rights are not something these animals, any more than you or I, must "earn"; in this
sense, animal rights are "natural" rights. What is more, if other animals share with

us a right to be treated with respect, then they, too, are not to be treated merely as

 




One would have thought, however, that the insistence on this kind of conflict
is greatly exaggerated. From a practical point of view, the philosophy of animal
rights is not in principle at odds with protecting the diversity of life. On the contrary,
because this philosophy implies that animals in the wild have a right to be treated
with respect (and thus, for example, that they are not be killed in the name of 'sport'
or trapped in pursuit of 'fashion‘), this philosophy is committed to retaining and
reclaiming wildlife habitat. Will any one suggest that, in view of this commitment,
the philosophy of animal rights is therefore at odds with the Biblical view that
humans have a unique role "as caretakers of diversity"? It is difficult to imagine
how such a judgment could be supported.

Pinches cites the case of the grey wolves' reintroduction into their former range
in Minnesota as something of a test case. He favors their reintroduction, and
believes that most people would concur. "An animal rights position," he insists,
"can neither support nor explain this." [ 10 ] Why not? Because "animal rights
positions are simply blind to species distinctions . . . (According to such positions)

we do not owe wolves anything as a species. We have no more reason to wish that

the wolf population increase any more than that the cattle population increase."[ 11]

Now, there may be we thinker whose views about animal rights Pinches is
disputing but it is unclear MLQ this thinker might be. For one thing, animal rights
thinkers do not think it would be a good idea that "the cattle population increase."
Just the opposite: There should be g:e_aﬂ_y fewer cattle in the world, according to this
phiIOSOphy, and their raison d'etre should not be that humans might consume
them.

But what about grey wolves? Should there be more of them? The animal rights
position is supportive of this outcome. If we give back to these animals the natural
habitat we have taken from them -- and this is something we fail to do if we
imagine, as Pinches seems to, that commercial cattle ranchers can "share" the
habitat with these wild animals -- then, in the natural course of events, there __vgi11_b_e_
more grey wolves, and the individual animals ranging over the woods and hills of
Montana will have been treated with the respect they are due, according to the

philosophy of animal rights. In short, the attempt to undermine this philosophy by

 




(as a matter of "strict justice") to what has instrumental value, relative to legitimate
human purposes, differs in important ways from what is owed (as a matter of "strict
justice") to those individuals whose value is non-instrumental. On this view, in
short, croplands may be used for the legitmate human purpose of raising food,
provided they are treated appropriately, whereas cows and hogs may not be used for
this purpose, howsoever "humane" their treatment.

Suppose I am right (a large assumption, to be sure). Then the distinction
between the bearers of intrinsic (or inherent) value and the bearers of instrumental
value has both a philosophical and a theological basis. Moreover -- and importantly
for present purposes —- the former category is not reserved for humans only. Those
other animals who; like humans, were created on the sixth day also possess
non-instrumental value and, as such, are to be treated respectfully (not merely
appropriately) relative to the pursuit of legitimate human ends. This is, as I have
indicated, the “message" I for one glean from the Biblical message about primal and
exchatological time. As such, we humans who, as Pinches would agree, are the
divinely appointed "caretakers" of the Earth, have a choice eit_h§r to journey back to
Eden 9; to journey forward towards the realization of Isaiah's vision. However we
view the journey, whether as traveling backwards towards a lost paradise or
forwards towards a promised one, an essential step along the way is to stop treating
the other animals as if they are our resources. And this means, in part, that we stop

eating them, as distasteful as that might be.

ANIMAL RIGHTS AND HUMAN VIRTUES

Whether argued for philosophically or theologically, how nonhuman animals
are treated i_s_ a matter of strict justice. It is not human kindness, not human
generosity, not a tender human heart, not any human interest that is the basis of

respectful treatment; it is justice, understood as treating others as they are due.

Morally, we are obliged to treat nonhuman animals as they deserve to be treated,

whether we like them or not, and whether or not we view our own happiness as

tied to their well-being. Because of this emphasis on justice, someone might infer

 




NOTES

1. Quoted in the April 1991 newsletter of the International Primate Protection
League.

2. See, in particular, The Case for Animal Rights. Berkely: University of
California Press, 1983.

3. I owe this way of expressing this point to James Rachels.

4. For representative selections from partisans of both sides, see A Linzey and
T. Regan (eds), Animals and Christianity: A Book of Readings. New York:
Crossroad, 1988.

5. See, also, my "Christianity and the Rights of Animals: The Challenge and the
Promise," in C Birch, W. Eakin and ]. McDaniel (eds), Liberating Life:
Contemporary Approaches to Ecological Theology. Maryknoll, New York- Orbis
Books, 1990.

6. Charles Pinches, "Gods, Wolves, Dogs and Humans: A Defense of
TheolOgical Speciesism." This volume, pp. xx->oc

7. Ibid., p. >o<, emphasis added. [p. 13 of the manuscript]

8. Ibid., p. >o<, emphasis added. [p. 21 of the manuscript]

9. Pinches consistently misrepresents my ideas, interpreting me as holding that
rights are correlated with interests. Although this is a common and important
analysis of rights, it is not mine. See The Case for Animal Rights, op. cit.

1U. Pinches, 0p. cit, p. >oc [p. 14 of the manuscript]

11. Ibid.

12. Ibid., p. )0: [p. 9 of the manuscript]

13. Perhaps the best introduction to these matters is John Robbins, Diet for a New
America. New Yorlc Stillpoint Press, 1989.

14. Pinches, op. cit, p. >o<. [p. 4 of the manuscript]

15. Pinches often lodges his objections against those who are anti-speciesist or

anti-anthropocentrists. Thus the target of his criticisms includes, even as it goes

beyond, advocates of animal rights.

16. Pinches, op. cit, p. >o<. [p. 7 of the manuscript]

 




_ 3 -
A THEOLOGY FOR‘THE LIBERATION OF LIFE

The current destruction of living communities demands conversion to
new thinking and conmitment, a theology for the liberation of life.
Informed by the biblical witness, the insights of science, and our
experience of the interdependence of life, this theology will address the
brokenness of our world and its intricate web of life with a new
statement of the healing words of Christian faith.

The ' Biblical Witness

 

Christian visions of the world and of salvation are profoundly
shaped by the Biblical story of creation. For many generations in the
West, this story was read primarily in human-centered terms: human beings
were created in the image of God, commanded to be fruitful and multiply,
given dominion over the rest of creation, only to disobey God and fall.
This one-sided interpretation led to reading the remainder of the Bible
as the story of human salvation alone. It also supported exploitative
attitudes and practices in relation to the remainder of creation and the
destruction of the habitat of many Species.

As the disastrous consequences of this exploitation, both for the
rest of creation and for humanity as a whole, have become manifest,
Christians have reread the creation story. We have found that it locates
the story of humanity in a much wider context, af cosmic one. Before and
apart from the creation of- human beings, d sees that the animals are
good. When humanity is added creation agoa whole is very good. The
command to human beings to be fruitful and to'mult-iply does not nullify
the identical command to animals. The image of God with its associated
dcminion is not for exploitation of animals but for responsible care. The
plants that are good in themselves are given to both animals and human

beings for their food. This is the integrityof creation in its ideal
form. ‘

Human sin disrupts this integral creation. As a consequence, there
is competition and war betWeen farmers and pastoralists. Injustice and
strife proceed so far that God repents having created the world.
Nevertheless, God saves the Noah family from the deluge, and at God's
command this human family exercises its rightful dominion in saving all
animals species from a watery death. When the waters recede God makes a
covenant with the animals. From this vision of creation and human sin
there follows a longing for inclusive salvation. The whole creation
praises God, but this whole creation also groans in travail. As human sin
has caused the subjection of all creation to futility, so the liberation
of all life can come about only through the liberation of humanity from
its bondage to Manmon.

The ideas expressed in the creation and Noah stories and the
consequent vision of universal salvation have profound relevance today.
All creatures have value in themselves as well as for one another and for
God. Each, therefore, claims respect from human beings. The whole
creation in all its rich complexity has a special value that is
diminished when forests are turned into grasslands and grasslands are

 




-7-

AN E'IHIC FOR THE LIBERATION OF LIFE

An ethic for the liberation of life calls for seeing the whole of
creation- in its integrity and therefore demands respect of every
creature. Human respect for fellow creatures properly emphasizes
individual members of the human community itself. Peace among nations and
justice both within and between them are crucial. But this human
community is part of a larger community of creatures wl'nse health is
essential for the well-being of human beings. An ethic for the liberation
of life involves concern for this larger community not only because of
its importance to human beings but also for the sake of its other members.

An ethic for the liberation of life has many levels. Among these are
concern (1) for peace and justice, (2) for the integrity of ecological

community, (3) for the maintenance of biological diversity, and (4) for
respect for individual animals.

A fully developed ethic for the liberation of life would involve
treating all of these topics in detail. Fortunately, the issues of peace
and justice have been treated throughout the history of the World Council
of Churches and vigorous discussion is continuing. Accordingly, section 1
is a brief statement pointing toward this larger discussion. Section 2 is
a slightly longer statement building on earlier disaissions of a
sustainable society. Section 3 notes very .briefly the special importance
of drastically reducing the extinction of species caused by human
actions. These three sections are not unrelated. When any of these levels
of the discussion is pressed, the others appear- Although reflection
about peace and justice begins with human relations, relations with other
creatures are inextricably involved. The health of the ecosystem is
essential for animals and human beings alike, and violence against
ecosystems involves the oppression of human beings and the decimation of
species. The need to preserve species is for the sake of the creatures
themselves and at the same time for the sake of human purposes.

Section 4 is somewhat different. It does not discuss the benefit to
‘ human beings of right treatment of animals. Indeed, it implies that even
when respect for animals does not coincide with human benefit it is still
required of Christians. Perhaps it is partly for this reason that this
topic has been ignored by the World Council of Churches and by most of
its member churches up to now. To bring this neglected part to focused
attention, this section is more extensive. It rejects anthropocentrism by
affirming the integrity of creation with peculiar vividness. The themes
that unite this fourth section to the others are two: First, that the
integrity of creation requires human beings to abandon damination and
exploitation as a style of relating both to one another and to the rest
of creation, and, second, that respect for the integrity of creation
calls upon us to expand our conviviality, that we live with other
creatures in peace and justice. - '

1. Peace and Justice

 

Much of the discussion of peace and justice has dealth with their
interrelatedness: There is no peace without justice, no justice without
peace. This means that the mere absence of war between the superpowers,

 




_11_

0’; floor polish, for example, until a specific number die. When we
purchase the products of the major cosmetic and household products‘
corporations, we support massive animal pain and death - all of which is
unnecessary. For there are alternatives. Attractive cosmetics and
effective household products that are both safe and econanical, that have
5331'; been tested on animals, already exist and are available, and others
would be if enough consumers dananded them.

I

Fashion.

‘ Mass-production and over-consumption encourage ignorance and
indifference in the name of fashion. Nowhere is this more evident than in
the case of fur products (coats, capes, gloves and the like). Fur-bearing
animals trapped in the wild inevitably suffer slow, aganizing deaths,
while those raised on "modern" fur-farms live in unnatural conditions
that severely limit their ability to move, groom, form social units and
engage in other patterns of behaviour that are natural to their kind.
When we purchase the products of commercial furriers, we support massive
animal pain and death - all of which is unnecessary. For there are
alternatives. Many attractive coats, capes, gloves and the like, which
are not directly linked to the commercial exploitation of animals,
already exist and are available, and others would be if enough consumers
demanded them.

v\

Food.

Increasingly, the family farm is being replaced by national and
often multi-Fnational interests, business ventures void of any roots in
the land or bonds to the animals they raise. The goal of mass-production
is to raise the largest number of animals in the shortest time with the
least investment. The "good shepherd" has given way to the corporate
factory.

Corporate animal agriculture relies on what are called
"close-confinement" or "intensive rearing" methods. The animals are taken
off the land and raised permanently indoors. There is no sun-light, no
fresh air, often not even room enough to turn around. In many cases six
to eight laying hens are packed in a wire-mesh metal cage three quarters
of the size of a page Of a daily newspaper. For up to five years, many
breeding sows are confined to stalls barely larger than their bodies.
Veal calves (typically male calves born to dairy herds) routinely are
taken from their mothers at birth and raised in permanent isolation.

Increasingly even dairy cattle are being taken off the land and raised
indoors. -

Because of the massive numbers of farm animals raised for slaughter

(upwards of 4 billion annually, just in the United States), huge amounts
of grains are used as feed. More than 90 % of the cats, corn, rye,
barley, and sorghum crops grown in the United States, for example, are
fed to animals. And this use of food is enormously wasteful. Every pound
of complete protein produced by beef cattle requires eight to nine pounds
of complete vegetable protein, while every pound of complete protein
supplied by hogs requires four to five pounds of complete vegetable

 




-15..

RECOMMENDAT IONS

1. There is a real need to bring together persons of diverse emphasis
and perspectives from Latin American liberation theologies, feminist
theologies, black theologies, ecological theologies, Minjung theologies
and African theology, those committed to animal rights, those struggling
to free Christianity from its anti-Jewish tendencies and those involved
in'dialogue with persons of other living faiths.

The aim would be to go beyond the still somewhat fragmentary and
divisive works of such thinkers to a consensual theological statement
that would not be a specialised theology geared to particular issues, but
it would be a fresh statement of the heart of Christian faith for the
whole community of believers.

We therefore request JPIC to organise such a meeting for the further

development of Christian theology that expresses the convictions of
persons concerned for justice, peace and the integrity of creation.

2.’ We recommend that JPIC and the sub-unit on Church & Society of
the World Council of Churches co-sponsor a series of conferences designed
to envision in concrete terms what social, economic, agricultural, and
industrial structures and practices would make possible ecologically
sustainable modes of development and progress which take account of human
respect for the integrity of creation, peace, and justice. Such
conferences should include persons representing points of view similar to
those identified in recommendation 1. Those willing tho think in new
categories from such areas as political theory, sociology, anthropology,
economics, agriculture, climatology, and oceanography should also be
included. '

3; We commend the sub-unit on Church & Society for its work in
bringingtogether theologians and scientists for informative and critical
dialogue. In the light of our description of the role of the sciences in

the theology for the liberation of life, we recommend that these
conferences continue.

4. In view of the ecologically unsustainable practices of modern

agriculture and forestry we recommend to JPIC that these issues be
priorities on the agenda of JPIC.

5. Seminary education is woefully lacking in basic courses in
ecology and/or perspectives in science and religion. It is certainly not
necessary for divinity students to have in-depth understanding of
scientific procedures. What is imperative is a basic, even minimal,
perspective of how contemporary science depicts reality. Many men and
women preparing for the ordained ministry hold a Newtonian,
individualistic, substantialist view of reality. It is this
understanding that they attempt to correlate with Christian faith,
resulting in an individualistic, otherworldly theology of salvation. We
reconment to the sub-units of Theology and Education of the World Council
of Churches that member churches of the WCC counsel their seminaries to

 




Association, a special interest group if there ever was one, were busy lobbying in
favor of their economic interests in factory farming. Speaking only for myself, as a

contributor to the Annecy Report I ﬁnd the behavior of the leadership of the WCC,

0/
i_f what Cogperud says is true, shameful beyond measure not because the leadership

decided to "dump" the sections on factory farming in particular and all but buried
the Annecy Report in general, but because WCC leaders evidently did not have the
decency to invite Annecy participants to give their side of the story.

If the North American Feed Industry Association's special interest lobbying of
the WCC was an isolated case, one might view it as an unfortunate aberation. But it
is not an isolated case. It is part of a pattern of the politicization of animal rights by
powerful economic and political forces that have a vested interest in business as
usual when it comes to human exploitation of nonhuman animals, whether on the
farm, at the lab, or in the wild. Nor is the Christian church beyond politics in this
regard. Witness the following excerpts from a November 17, 1990 presentation,
addressed to a Vatican conference, by United States Secretary of Health and Human
Services, Louis Sullivan.

In the 19905, animal rights extremists constitute a clear and present
danger to developing knowledge that is directed to the betterment of
human health. In equating to animals rights traditionally reserved for
humans these activists pose a threat not only to research but to the
vitality of the human spirit. [1]
What is significant about Secretary Sullivan's remarks goes beyond the fact that they
were addressed to a conference organized by the Roman Catholic Church; the
content of his remarks is no less important. In Secretary Sullivan's view, there are
extremists in our midst -— animal rights extremists. And if we ask who these peOple
are, Secretary Sullivan has an answer. These are the people who "equate" human
and animal rights. What Secretary Sullivan fails to mention -- and one can only
conjecture about his motives for failing to do so -- is that no one ﬁts his description.
For there is no one, even among the most "radical" advocates of animal rights, who
believes that the rights of humans and other animals are in every respect "equal."

Like others,'Secretary Sullivan might delight in pilloring the idea of animal rights

 




means to our ends, nor is their moral status in the world reducible to their
usefulness relative to our purposes, needs or interests. Those nonhuman animals,
then, if any, whose value is not merely instrumental, may, like us, be viewed as
having "inherent worth" or "intrinsic value."

Which nonhuman animals, if any, have this kind of value and share with us
the right to be treated with respect? The answer I have offered in general is the
following. Some nonhuman animals not only are in the world, they are aware of
the world: They hear, taste, smell and feel the physical reality we jointly cohabit.
Moreover, these animals also have various cognitive capacities (they can learn,
remember, and anticipate what takes place in the world as they experience it); they
have a variety of desires, preferences, wants and needs, and are able to act in pursuit
or avoidance of these desires, etc; like us they can experience pleasure and pain,
surprise and anxiety, and a fairly generous family of emotional states; and, for our
purposes, finally, these various psychological capacities are not disparate, they are
uniﬁed in the sense that, for example, this dog Spot who remembers where his ball
is, is the same dog Spot who wants to go for a walk. On my view, then, there is a
psychologically unified life that is this dgﬁpot's life story, or, to put the same point
differently, [ 3 ] in addition to having a biology, Spot also has a biography. Like us,
Spot is a somebody in the world, n_ot a something.

Where one "draws the line" vis-a—vis animals' possession of the right to be
treated with respect, in my view, thus turns on where, as we move through the
phylogenetic scale, the basis for attributing this biographical presence grows weaker
and weaker. Of course, no one knows “with certainty" where this line should be
drawn; the best we can do is to make our best effort to render our best judgment.
Because we have abundant empirical evidence for believing that human
biographical presence in the world has a material basis (depends, that is, on an
intact, functioning central nervous system), we have a reasonable guide on which to
rest our line-drawing decision: The more like us other animals are, in terms of their

relevant physical make-up, the stronger are the grounds for viewing them as

biographical beings; the less like us, the weaker are the grounds. Using this basis, the

case for attributing a biographical presence in the world to species of birds and

 




attempting to show that it is at odds with wildlife restoration policies, such as the

case at hand, misfire.

THE THEOLOGY OF ANIMAL RIGHTS

There are, of course, more fundamental issues that need to be addressed. Even
if it is false -- Pinches's protestations to the contray notwithstanding -- that the
philosophy of animal rights, because of its emphasis on the inherent value of
individual animals, “can neither support nor explain" wildlife restoration efforts,
we need to ask whether this emphasis upon individual wolves, or cows for that
matter, is at odds With the Biblical message. By my own (confessedly inexpert) lights,
I do not think the Biblical message is as unambiguous as Pinches, for example,

would have us assume. What are we to make of Genesis 1:29, for example, where

God is said to provide primal humans with a diet of "all plants that bear seed

everywhere upon the earth, and every tree bearing fruit which yields seed. " To
infer that God permits us to eat spe_cies_ of "trees bearing seeds," for example, is
absurd; for no one gar; eat a species of anything. Rather, we are given permission to
eat individual plants that fit this description. In other words, although our
authorized diet in paradise is spelled out in general terms, we are to understand that
we do not consume generalities, only particulars. And the particulars we are
permitted to consume, as food, are nuts, benies and other fruits; particular cows,
sheep, hogs, chickens and the like are conspicuous for their absence. Permission to
eat them is not forthcoming at this point in the Biblical story.
Consider, further, for example, the eschatological vision of Isaiah, which in

part reads as follows:

The wolf shall dwell with the lamb,

and the leopard shall lie down with the kid,

and the calf and the lion and the fatling together,

and a little child shall lead them.

The cow and the bear shall feed;

their young shall lie down together;

 




that animal rights advoctaes are committed to driving a sharp wedge deeply
between the respectful treatment of animals on the one hand, and human
happiness on the other. Pinches offers the example of a dog who has gotten his
collar entangled in a neighbor‘s bush. On the rights' view, it seems, it is only the
dog's, not any human interest, that is at stake. Pinches finds this unacceptable. On
his view, he would not "regard the dog's state of well-being . . . as having nothing
to do with my own." "[S]houldn't we rather think," he asks, "that were I the right
sort of person the sight of the dog in such circumstances would bother me? Indeed, I
should not be happy with myself with him in that collar. That is, I should'not see
my ‘interests' or those of my neighbor as entirely separable from his. . . . [Instead] I
should strive to be‘. . . the sort of person whose happiness, qua anthropos, or qua
human creature of God, depends upon the well-being of our fellow creatures."[ 14 ]
To the extent that Pinches believes that this constitutes an objection to the
philosophy or theology of animal rights, [ 15 ] he is mistaken. There is nothing in
the animal rights position that precludes our seeing the connection between (1)
acting on behalf of the interests of a nonhuman animal, and (2) acting to promote
human interests. If we assume that Pinches's neighbor cares for his dog's well-being
then it would be in his neighbor's interests, not simply his neighbor‘s dog to release
the animal. Moreover, if Pinches is the "right sort of person," one whose own
happiness depends upon "the well-being of our fellow creatures," then freeing the
dog will be something that is tied to Pinches's own happiness. All this may be
granted. The problem is, not everyone is "the right sort of person." Pinches's
neighbor, for example, might care precious little for his dog- the dog in fact may be
entangled by the bush because of his neighbor's willful neglect. Are we then n_ot to
free the dog? Or suppose that, not Pinches but some other neighbor, who is not the
"right sort of person," sees the dog and is unmoved by the animal's plight. I_h_is
neighbor, in other words, does not see that his happiness "depends upon" the dog's.

Are we then to conclude that this person has no obligation to free the animal? It is

implausible to imagine that the answer to either of these questions would be in the

affirmative. And this is crucial. It illustrates an important general truth -— namely,

that the basis of the obligation to free the dog is independent of what does and does

 




17. Ibid, p. >o< [p. 2 of the manuscript]

18. Ibid., footnote 13.
19. Ibid.

 




_4...

turned into deserts. The Noah story highlights God's concern for the
preservation of Species. The value of all creatures in and for
themselves,“£¢t‘one another, and for God, and their interconnectedness in

a divers‘e’whole that has unique value for God, together constitute the
integrity'of'creation.

As human beings who participate in this creation we have a unique
responsibility to respect its integrity, but in fact we have violated it
in many ways. Indeed, our violence against one another and against the
rest of creation threatens the continuation of life on the planet. It is
.now our opportunity and our duty, .by God‘s grace, to be restored to peace
and justice both in our relations to one another and in our relations
with the rest of creation. As long as human beings order their lives to
short4sighted economic gain or increased wealth, there will be no end to
violence, to oppression, or to the exploitation of the other creatures.
Only a society ordered to the regeneration of the earth will attain peace

and justice._ Only in such a world is the integrity of creation respected
and achieved. »

Within the message of Jesus we find a profound deepening of the
importance of our treatment of one another and especially of the weak and
Oppressed. "Truly, I say to you as you did it to one of the least of
these/\my brothers and sisters, you did it to me” (Mt 25:48). Primarily
this ‘refers to our treatment of human beings, but on the lips of the
Jesus who speaks of God's care for the grass of the field and the fallen
sparrow, these too are included among "the least of these". In the hunger
of millions of children, in the loneliness and huniliation of the
homeless, in the wretchedness of the raped, in the suffering of the
tortured, and also in the pain of myriads of animals used for hunan gain

without regard to their own worth, Christ is crucified anew (Ephesians
1.10).

The Contributions of Science

The contributions of the sciences are also an essential part of a
theology for the liberation of life. When they avoid the assumptions of
scientism and materialism, they open up the mystery of the cosmos in a
most impressive way. Indeed, while in one sense science diminishes the
area of the unknown, in another sense it leads us deeper into
incomprehensible mystery. Recent discoveries in physics, biology, and
other sciences tell us the story of an evolving universe that needs to be
put side by side with our religious narrative. According to recent
astrophysics, the universe originated in an event known as the Big Bang.
During the first few moments of our world's infancy its fundamental
pre-atomic physical features acquired numerical values that would
eventually allow for the origin and evolution of living, sentient, and
thinking beings. The stellar production of elements that make up cells
and organisms required a universe of sufficient breadth and temporal
duration to make life possible. The specific physical properties, the

immense size, and the age of the universe are intimately related to the
existence of life.

 




-8—

essential as that is, is not peace, and that an egalitarianism enforced
by violence is not justice. An ethic for the liberation of life expands
on these familiar ideas. For there is no true peace when the wider
community of life is violated, and there is no justice when its animal
members are not respected.

The quest for peace between nations aims to end. the enormous
expenditures_on preparations especially for war, by the superpowers and
their allies. These expenditures not only add to the threat of military
destruction but also rob the e rt/hi of resources that could be used to
meet pressing human needs and n tribute to global pollution. In the
United States the endless preparation for war gives grossly unjust power
to the military-industrial-university complex. Even unaligned nations are
drawn into arms races that distort their eooncmies. The emphasis on arms
often leads to military dominance of their governments and the oppression
of their people.

2. Respect'for the integrity of the ecological community

The integrity of the ecological conmunity is threatened when plants
and animals are used exclusively as objects without due consideration for
the long-term sustainability of the ecological community.

With the exception of minerals and petro-chemical products, modern
civilisation depends entirely upon products from four ecological systeis
croplands, pastures, forests and fisheries. Yet in most if not all

countries today, each of these ecological systems shows synptons of being
overstressed. In the case of forests and fisheries, the stress is so

great that global production itself is declining.

Below are some selected examples of ecological communities that are under
threat. They are a few of any number of examples that might be chosen.

Modern agriculture - croplands and grasslands.

Agricultural practices over the millenia have often proved
unsustainable. Whole civilizations have collapsed when they exhausted the
soils that supported them. Half the land that was available when farming
began is now unusable. The pace at which desertification proceeds has
greatly accelerated with capital intensive agriculture in the past fifty
years as much sustainable family farming has been replaced by corporate
agriculture. This has driven millions of people off the land and into
urban slums especially in the United States and in many third world
countries. The labourers who replace the family farmers often suffer from
the chemicals that also cause the soil to deteriorate. Nations formerly
capable of feeding themselves are now dependent upon imported food. For
example, in parts of Brazil mono-cultures of sugarcane has replaced the
staple crops of rice and beans that formerly contributed to a staple diet.

One major cause of unsustainability of modern agriculture which is

chemically intensive, energy intensive and mono-cultural is the
deterioration of soil structures. This in turn is caused by the intensive

 




_12—

protein. When more protein is being used to produce less, it is no

exaggeration to say that we have a protein production system running in
reverse.

On the corporate factory that is today's animal farm, virtually
every natural form of behaviour is thwarted, from preening and dust
bathing in chickens to nursing and gamboling in veal calves. When we
purchase the products of coporate factory farming, we support massive
animal deprivation and death - all of which is unnecessary. For
alternatives exist. People can choose to purchase the products of the
remaining small-scale family farms or explore a dietary life-style free
from all direct commercial connections with the sufferingjdeath of

animals . (2

Entertainment.

. Many different animals are used for commercial purposes in
Cfntertainment.‘ The forms of entertainment include cirwses, stage and
aquatic shows, rodeos, bull-fight, and organized cock and dog fights. In
whatever form, the animals are treated as mere means to human ends.
Sometimes (as in the case of bull and bronco busting in rodeos) the
animals are caused more than incidental pain. Sometimes (as in the case
of the housing and transportation of circus and other "performing"
animals) the animals are subjected to severe and often protracted
deprivation. Sometimes (as in the case of animals who perform "tricks" in
stage and acquatic shows) the animals are rewarded for their ability to
mimic human behaviour (for example-.1 by balancing themselves on balls or
jumping through hoops). And sometimes (as in the case of bull, cock, and
dog fights) some of the animals are killed and all are made to endure
acute suffering. a ,

When we patronize these forms of entertainment, we support those
commcercial interests that reduce the value of animals to the status of
the purely instrumental, often at the cost of great pain (and sometimes
even death) for the animals themselves - and all of this is unnecessary.
For alternatives exist. We do' not have to train, exploit, outwit or
outmuscle animals, or to support those who make a profit from doing so,
in order to take pleasure in their presence or their beauty. Benign forms
of recreation involving animals exist. For some people this may involve
photography, scuba and other forms of ocean diving, or the viewing of any
one of the thousands of films about wildlife. For all people this can
involve becoming attentive to and appreciate of many forms of animal life
that live in community with us, wherever we live.

Education.

A traditional rite-of-passage for children and adolescents in the
affluent world is compulsory dissection of animals. Those 5 dents who
resist or refuse for reasons of conscience routinely are r diculed or
punished for their moral sensitivity. Often they stand alone, abandoned
even by their parents, ostracized by their peers. And yet this exercise
in scholastic coercion is totally unnecessary. For alternatives exist.
These include detailed drawings of animal anatomy and physiology,

 




—16-

require course work in the contemporary scientific "picture" of reality,
a picture that underscores the interdependence and interrelatedr.ess of
all of reality. Such a view could profoundly influence how church
leaders preach and teach in regard to the relationship of human beings to
the environment.

6. In view of the widespread maltreatment of animals throughout the

world and in view of the intrinsic value of individual animals to
themselves and to God we recommend that Church & Society take appropriate
steps to: '

(a) encourage the churches and their members to acquire knowledge about
how animals are being treated and in what ways this treatment departs

from respect for the intrinsic value to themselves and of animals as
creatures of God.

(b) encourage members of the Christian community to act according to
such guidelines as the following:

1. Avoid cosmetics and household products that have been cruelly
tested on animals. Instead, buy cruelty-free items.

2. Avoid clothing and other aspects of fashion that have a history
of cruelty to animals, products of the fur industry in particular.
Instead, purchase clothes that are "cruelty-free".

3. Avoid meat and animal products that have been produced. on
factory farms. Instead, purchase meat and animal products from
sources where the animals have been treated with respect, or abstain
from these products altogether.

4. Avoid patronising forms of entertainment. that treat animals as
mrere means to human ends. Instead, seek benign forms of
entertainment, ones that nurture a sense of the wonder of God's
creation and reawaken that duty of oonviviality we can discharge by
living respectfully in community with all life, the animals included.

7. We recommend that Church & Society encourage the member churches
of the WOrld Council of Churches to involve Christians in environmental
causes and to cooperate with organisations which defend ecological
communities at regional and parish levels.

8. We recommend that Church & Society sponsor a series of courses
for church leaders on the emergent theme of our consultation: the
liberation of life. In such courses church leaders from different parts
of the world, selected by a subcommittee of the sub-unit in consultation
with any additional sponsors, could be introduced to the environmental
crises of our time, to problems of animal abuse, and to theological
perspectives emerging out of the JPIC process, such as those proposed in
this report, which encourage a constructive response to such issues.

 




by asking us to image that pigs and cows should have the right to vote, for example,
but this would only prove how much he and others wish to distort rather than to
address this idea.

"Extremists" is a favored word in the lexicon of those who oppose animal
rights. Others include "fanatics," “misanthropes,” "monomaniacs" and -- by far the
favorite -- "terrorists." Animal rights advocates are also "misinformed,"
"emotional," "anti-science," "anti-intellectual," and "anti-rational." Lest one think
that only people in low places would engage in such pejorative rhetoric, consider
just these three examples. The ﬁrst comes from the 1988 "Animal Research Action
Plan" of the American Medical Association. Among its recommendations: "The
animal activist movement must be shown to be not only anti—science but also a)
responsible for violent and illegal acts that endanger life and property, and b) a
threat to the public's freedom of choice." A second example comes from the pen of
Frederick K Goodwin, who heads the United States Government's Alchohol, Drug
Abuse, and Mental Health Association. He writes: "Stripping away the facile,
pathetically misinformed, and/or dishonest arguments against animal research
reveals a philosophy based on the moral equivalence of humans and other sentient
animals." And, lastly for present purposes, U. S. Representative Vin Weber, founder
of the Congressional Animal Welfare Caucus, in an invitation to a fund raising
event featuring Secretary Louis Sullivan, has this to say: "It is my pleasure to invite
you to meet a national leader in the fight to counteract the mindless emotionalism
and violent tactics of the animal rights movement."

And so it goes. As these few examples illustrate, the AMA‘s Action Plan is well
underway. No matter that truth is the first casualty. If Secretary Sullivan can tell his
Catholic audience that animal rights advocates "equate" human and animal rights,
Frederick Goodwin surely can rage against "the facile, pathetically misinformed,

and/or dishonest arguments" these partisans use, and Congressman Weber can

ﬁercely denounce their "mindless emotionalism." And the public? Well, the public

can be none the wiser. In the face of this wilfull, deliberate, and well-crafted
"pro-active" strategy, whose goal is to protect vested interests in business as usual

when it comes to animal exploitation, respect for truth is more honored in the

 




mammals is very strong indeed, as is the case for denying this kind of presence to
oats, peas, beans and barley, for example. If, in response to this judgment, someone
says (and someone always says), "But what about ﬁsh? Oysters? Clams? Bees? Ants?
Other insects?," then I believe the honest answer is, “It's not altogether clear what
one should say. There is some evidence 'for', and some 'against'. These are hard
cases.“ __B_u_t_ (and this is what is crucial) our uncertainty about some cases does not
entail that we are uncertain about a_ll_ cases. The plain fact of the matter is, wherever
one draws the line, pigs and cows, coyotes and dolphins, mice and rabbits, sparrows
and eagles, wrens and robins are on our (that is to say, the biographical) side of it.
And it is with what we know, not with what we are uncertain, that the future of our
moral thinking and our moral life should seek direction.

That direction in practice calls for massive social change. Nonhuman animals
are raised to be eaten by us, are shot for "sport" and trapped for purposes of
"fashion" by us, are used as laboratory "models" and “tools" by us, are trained to
perform and are exhibited in zoos by us, because we view them as our resources.
The philosophy of animal rights calls for the abolition not the “humane reform," of
any and all such practices. As such, the philosophy of animal rights mounts a
categorical moral assault on those vested economic and professional interests for
which the likes of Steve Cooperud, Louis Sullivan, Frederick Goodwin, and
Congressman Vin Weber speak. This philosophy, like any other, may be mistaken.
But whether it is or not must surely be decided on the basis of a careful examination
of the arguments that are marshalled in its favor. Respect for reason, respect for
science, respect for intelligence demand nothing less. Sadly, as the opening section
of this paper documents, just such respect is demonstrably lacking on the part of
those public ofﬁcials who oppose those who accept the philosophy of animal rights.
One can only h0pe that those who speak for the Christian faith will not add their

voices to the choir of pejoration or that, in the wake of special interest lobbying

these same voices will not be silenced.

 




and the lion shall eat straw like the ox. . . .
They shall not hurt or destroy
in all my holy mountain . . . . (Isaiah, II.6-9)

In this prophesy of future time we are to understand that not only do humans
live in peace with the other animals, and so do not eat them, even the other
animals do not prey on one another for nourishment. (Like the cow, even the lion
eats straw.) Again, moreover, since whoever eats, eats individuals, not species, both
the earlier creation saga in Genesis and the prophetic vision of Isaiah speak with
one voice: Individual animals matter, not just species or their balance and diversity.
By way of a final example: When, in the New Testament, Jesus testifies that "not a
sparrow falls" that‘God is not mindful of that creature, only a Byzantine theology
would infer that God's love extends only to species, not to individuals.

Thus do I for one find the imputation, to God, of a theOlogy that exempts
individual animals from moral standing and extends this only to species and their
diversity, Biblically impoverished. I do not say that the Bible contains no passages
that might support this view; in fact, the passage Pinches cites, Genesis 1:20-24,

arguably is one of them. My more modest point is different -- namely, that other

passages no less clearly reflect a divine concern for the individual -- this or that

particular ﬂesh and blood creature. For it was, after all, individual animals, not
species, that Jesus is reputed to have set free, in his protest against the money
changers.

But even if it is true, as I believe it is, that some passages in the Bible support
the view that individual animals are not "ours" to eat or in other ways to make use
of for "our" purposes, we are obliged to ask whether all other life forms have a
lesser kind of value. Again, Pinches correctly insists upon the necessity of raising
this question when he writes that "if we say that the treatment of animals is a
matter of strict justice, does this mean that the treatment of cr0plands is not? If
elephants have 'intrinsic value,‘ with what is this being contrasted that has merely
instrumental value. " [ 1.2 ] How, within the constellation of values recognized by
the philosophy of animal rights, might one respond to these important questions?

To begin with, there is nothing'in this phiIOSOphy that requires that values

 




not satisfy human interests.

Having said this, however, it is important that the animal rights position not
be misunderstood. One need have no quarrel with Pinches's understanding of what
is involved in being the "right sort of person." Indeed, it is perfectly consistent with
the animal rights position that one evolve into a person who takes satisfaction in
treating other animals as they deserve to be treated, and who sees the pain and
suffering the needless death of other animals as something that diminishes his or
her own happiness. In other words, the "right sort of person" is one whose
well-being, as a person, is connected with the well-being of all who have a
well-being. It is not simply "every man's death" that diminishes such a person; such
a person is diminished by the needless suffering and death of nonhuman animals,
and the inappropriate treatment of all that sustains life on this planet. The "right
sort of person," one might say, rejoices in doing the right thing and is pained by the
wrongful treatment of any member of the life community. This -- which is a truer
view of the wholeness of the animal rights position regarding moral development
and motivation -- is a far cry from one that, according to Pinches, would “shut off
the path to (one's own) moral development and transformation such that I might
become a person who is properly affected by the plight of my fellow creatures,

human and nonhuman alike." [ l6 ] If I am right, Pinches has got it altogether

wron g.

CONCLUDING PRACTICAL POSTSCRIPT

My remarks on this occasion have been narrowly focused. I have not attempted
to comment upon, let alone to defend, the Annecy Report in its entirety. Nor have I
even addressed all parts of the section on our treatment of individual nonhuman
animals. In addition to summarizing some of my views and alerting readers to the

politicization of animal rights, I have been mainly concerned with responding to

some (but not all) of the criticisms lodged by Charles Pinches. Pinches at one point

faults the authors of the Annecy Report for "a lack of theological care and an

uncritical appropriation of the moral rallying cries of the day . . ." [17] One of those

 




THE LIBERATION OF LIFE

INTRODUCTION; THE HISTORICAL CONTEXT

The theme of the 1991 General Assembly at Canberra is "Come Holy
Spirit, Renew the Whole Creation". There are many ways in which creation
needs renewal. It needs renewal from the debilitating poverty,
repression, and violence under which hundreds of millions of people now
suffer. It needs rer.=.e.wa3: from the shrinking of its forests, the loss of
its topsoil, the pollution of its atmosphere, and the contamination of
its waters. It needs renewal from the abuse of individual animals in
factory farms and scientific laboratories. It needs renewal from war and
the threat of nuclear war. This renewal depends on us as empowered by
God, the Holy Spirit, who works in and through the whole of creation.

Indeed, life, in all its forms, cries out' for liberation, for
freedom. People across the earth are fighting for-«liberation from the
pain of oppression due to poverty, gender, race, handicapping conditions,
and many other causes. Liberation needs to be extended to animals,
plants, and to the very earth itself, which sustains all life. Thus "the
liberation of life" which is the theme of this report, extends the
world-wide plea for peace and justice to all creatures, whom we humans

need in order to exist, but of equal importance, who are valuable in and
for themselves and to God.

Exploitation of people and destruction of other forms of life are
inseparable. Consider South Africa. In 1988 the Afrikaaner minority
celebrated the 150th anniversary of the white man's "trek" into "the
North", which was described in the Piet Retief Manife sto as "a beautiful
country teeming with game" of every kind. In fact it was a beautiful
country, where grass grew as tall as hunans and silver streams cascaded
down to the oceans on either side. In spite of internecine conflict,
humans lived together in community which nature, and children innocently
played with crystals later identified as precious diamonds. The
indigenous people felt the presence of what they called Modimo, the
Source and Presence of life which penetrates through planmumans,
other animals, dark caverns and tall mountains. With "industrialisation"
and "development" this land has now been divided and fenced into farms,
its surface scarred and scratched to make a few people rich and powerful.
It has been disemboweled at points and left agape in a quest for
minerals, coal, gold, diamonds, and uranium for nuclear power. For sport
alone, animals are hunted as trophies and some species have been rendered
extinct. In less than two centuries a land of pristine splendour has
become a repository of human heartlessness, a victim of ""progress and
"civilisation". As if this were not enough, this relentless onslaught has
spilled over to human beings themselves. By means of .Land Acts, native
reserves were created and then developed into tribal homelands, human
movement restricted by influx control, homes and family life disrupted to
serve the interests of industry and commerce.

Or consider Korea. For four thousand years the Korean peninsula and
the island just south of it, Cheju, had been a homogenous community of
people united with the land. People spoke of their home as "the land of

morning calm" In 1910 the Japanese colonized Korea, after which Korean
women were recruited into the military, then forced to be prostitutes.

 




_S-

The biological theory of evolution with its ingredients of chance
and struggle for existence requires a deeper understanding of divine
power. God is not a magician but one who lovingly invites the created
world to participate in the unfolding of the cosmic story. Evolutionary
thinking compels us to acknowledge more explicitly than ever before the
continuity of the whole network of life with the universe as such. The
evolutionary cosmic epic contributes to a deeper understanding of the
universe as our origin and our home. We are made of the same stuff as the

stars. Our existence is deeply embedded in the existence of the universe
itself.

An ongoing dialogue between science and theology is indispensable
for addressing environmental issues. Such a conversation will help
science to understand its task in the service of the whole of creation.
And it will also enable theology to ranain in contact with the real world
and thus be faithful to the earth. The work of the sciences, including
the social sciences, is of special significance for demonstrating the
intricate interrelatedness and interdependeny of the‘biosphere, human
comnunity, and the cosmic totality. Without constant attention to the
latest developments in the sciences, Christian theology will become
irrelevant to those who strive to preserve peace, justice and the
integrity of creation. For theology to do less than come to terms with
our present scientific understanding, for it to accept outmodeled
assumptions about reality from a different time, seems blatantly
wrongheaded.

Imaging ' the New Sensibility

A contemporary reading of Scripture suggests‘an interrelatedness of
all creatures within the earth and with God, likewise, the story of the
universe emerging from the sciences indicates that all that exists is
part of everything else. How should Christians image this sensibility
when speaking of God and of world? Whenever human beings attempt to speak
about God, we do so in the language of our own time, our various
cultures, and from familiar and important relationships. In biblical
times, this language was of God as king and lord, but also of God as
creator, father, mother, healer, and liberator. As we think about the way
to express the relationship of God to the world in our time, we realize
that metaphors such‘ a king and lord limit God's activity to the human

sphere} moreover these metaphors suggest that God is external to the
world and distant from it.

The creation narrative of our time, the awesome story of the
beginning of the universe some ten billion years ago, evolving into our
incredibly complex and intricate cosmos in which "everything that is" is
interrelated, suggests the need for different symbolic language. Instead
of a king relating to his realm, we picture God as the Creator who
"bodies forth" all that is, who creates not as a potter or an artist
does, but more as a mother. That is to say, the universe, including our
earth and all its creatures and plants "lives and moves and has its
being" in God (cf. Acts 17,28), though God is beyond and more than the

universe. Organic images seem most appropriate for expressing both the
immanence of God in and to the entire creation as well as God's

 




-9—

use of chemical fertilizers and pesticides which deplete the soil of
microorganisms that normally nmintain soil structure. Another cause is
rising water tables in irrigation areas with consequent salinisation of
the soil. When the plants no longer cover the soil from these and other
causes, wind cften blows away much of the top soil. The violence of much
industrialised agriculture to the life support system is at the same time
violence against the poor. It violates the integrity of creation.

Forestry.

Tropical rain forests are DOW' disappearing at the rate of one
fbotball field every second, mostly in Latin America and South East Asia.
These forests sustain the greatest diversity of plants and animals known
in any terrestrial habitat. The destruction of habitats is the main cause
of extinction on earth today. Hence the destruction of rain forests is
the main cause of the extinction of species in our own time. When the
forests are cleared, soil erosion sets in and in many places the soil
becomes useless. In other places attempts are made to replace the forest
with farms, often with disastrous results. The chances of the forests
returning are remote. So when the rain forest is .gone, it is gone
forever. The tragedy of the ecological community is paralleled time and
time again by hunan tragedy. This is particularly so when the forests
have been the home and livelihood of indigenous peoples. As in
unsustainable agriculture, we find unsustainability of the ecological
community due to human interference by one group of people leads to
misery and tragedy for others.

Marine communities.

Much could be said about our disrespect for the integrity of marine
communities. A few examples will have to suffice. The major oceanic
fisheries around the world have declining yields (for example, the
anchovy fisheries off the coast of Peru and a number of fisheries in the
North Atlantic). Two main causes of these declines seem to be overfishing
and pollution. In both cases we have good guidelines for preventing such
interferences with the natural communities so that they may be sustained.
But the implementation of such practices seem to be exceedingly
difficult. Very often the people who suffer most are the poor who are
dependent upon such fish as they can catch or buy cheaply. The greed and
mismanagement of the few leads to the suffering of many.

The recent deaths of seals in the North Sea and Baltic Sea
illustrate a trail of interconnections that lead to ecological disaster.
It seems that toxic wastes in the sea, resulting from industrial
pollution, may cause an immune deficiency in the seals. This renders them
susceptible to a virus or viruses to which they are normally inmune. In a
healthy environment seals do not succumb to such viruses. A greater

respect for the health of their environment might well have avoided the
death of the seals.

Experience tells us that if we look after nature, nature looks after
us. That is a prudential reason for not turning ecologically sustainable

 




-13—

stateéof-the art videos of relevant dissections, and even computer
programmes that enable students to "dissect" a frog, for example/\on a
screen rather than a once living organism. When we support an educational
system that callously punishes young people for being concerned about the
integrity and value of animals, we tacitly support not only the
unnecessary pain and death of countless numbers of animals but also the
moral damage done to our children.

The examples given above are only that: examples. There are many
other ways in which people fail to show minimal respect for animals as
creatures of God. These include instances of wasteful, needlessly
duplicative, and poorly executed scientific use of animals: the "sport"
of hunting, and the killing of members of rare and endangered species,_
such as.the African elephant and the black rhino. Like the previous
examples, these further ones have a common denominator: A creature having
intrinsic value is reduced to one having only instrumental value - as an
object of mere scientific curiosity, a trophy, or a source of illegal
profit.

4” 43hr" -

The ethic,9f‘the liberation of life is a call to Christian action.
In particular, how animals are treated is not "someone else's worry", it
is a ﬂatter of our individual and collective responsibility. Christians
are called to act respectfully towards ”these, the least of our brothers
and sisters". This is not a simple question of kindness, however laudable
that virtue is. It is an issue of strict justice. In all our dealing with
animals, whether direct or indirect,f£he ethic for the liberation of life
requires that we render.unto animals‘what they are due, as creatures with
an independent integrity and value. Precisely because they cannot speak
for themselves or act purposively to free themselves from the shackles of
their enslavement, the Christian duty to speak and act for them is the
greater, not the lesser.

In facing this new challenge -- this challenge to liberate all life,
the animals included -- Christians should aspire to two ideals:

1. Seek knowledge.
2. Act justly.

The first ideal enjoins us to break the habit of ignorance when it comes
to how animals are being treated. It bids us to ferret out the truth, to
make the invisible visible, to make the obscure clear. The second ideal
bids us to make our own life a living expression of justice towards God's
creation, to bring peace to our own lives even as we work to bring peace

to the world. Indeed, we are unlikely to succeed in doing the latter if
we fail in doing the former. There is little hope, that is, that we can

change the world if we cannot even change ourselves: In the choice of the
cosmetics and household products we use, clothes we wear, the food we

eat, and the entertainment we patronize..Zﬁe ethic for the liberation of
life begins at.home.

Much else remains to ‘be considered, Laws and. institutions ‘that

permit or encourage the oppression of animals need to be identified and
changed. The truth about the ways animals are oppressed needs to be made

known, beginning in the church itself. Our children need to be sustained

 




