K x I
tested. “where, 3 '-
‘

News =-

S h e at

Issued by the London and Provincial Anti— Vivisection Society
76 Victoria Street, S.W.l.
(The Oldest Established Society for the Abolition of Vivisection).

" Vivisection is a veritable Hell on Earth. If anything could exceed the hideous cruelty of vivisection it would be the childish
absurdity of the claims to beneﬁt mankind which are constantly made by its advocates. No good ever came out of vivisection

since'the world began". and in my opinion no good ever can.”

Charles. Bell Taylor, MD. F.R.C.S.

 

Vol. 111., No. .2. FEBRUARY,

1943. Price 1d.

 

QUOTES AND

THIS MONTH’S QUOTATION.

“ Even physiologists are often forced to admit that
the result of this or that animal experiment may not
be applicable in the case of man! Of what value,
therefore, can it be in the training of medical students?”
James Burnet, M.A., LLB. (Lond), M.D., F.R.C.P.E.,

in the Medical World, December 11th, 1942.

THE RED LIGHT.

There have been many instances recently of
“ Blimps ” demanding for their appeasement the heads
of those who oppose their “orthodox” views. Not

long ago one of these gentlemen demanded, in the
House of Commons, the arrest of a member who had
dared to ask embarrassing questions which tended to
discredit the diphtheria immunisation scheme which is
ofﬁcially sponsored by the Ministry of Health. ' There
have sinﬁkbeen several instances reported in the press

lely threatening views have been expressed
concerni.
for which “ the Government ” have made themselves
respon31ble. One such case was quoted in the Leicester
Advertiser (January 2nd, 1943), in a summary reading 2
“_Should a private society be allowed to criticise a
policy which the Government decide is advisable for the
public? _This point was raised at the Barrow-on-Soar
Rural District Council meeting on Tuesday, by Mr. J. B.
Galloway.

“ The incident arose over the immunisation against
diphtheria scheme concerning which, he said, he and
others had received circulars and criticisms from a
society, criticisms which, he declared, constituted an

7 attempt to sabotage a Government Scheme.”

CONSIDER THE CASE.

Why this demand for the suppression of those who
dare to oppose one small item of Government policy,
and that small item not in any way connected with the
conduct of the war against the forces of Nazism?
Certain clear statements have been issued by various
societies interested in this question, in the form of
leaﬂets and similar communications. We, ourselves,
issue them in this paper nearly every week. They are
compiled from such sources as replies to Parliamentary
questions, quotations from the pages of medical
journals, ﬁgures from the Registrar-General’s returns,
etc., and should, therefore, be correct, If there is
anything wrong with the way in which such data is
presented to the public or in any of the conclusions
drawn from the facts and ﬁgures quoted, the
responsible Ministry are in a position of overwhelming
superiority to deal with any such points by showing
them to be inaccurate. One member of the Council
appeared to have something of this sort in mind, for
he is reported to have asked :

“ if they took this action, what about the freedom for

which they were ﬁghting? How could democracv
function if they were refused all freedom of criticism? ”

 

those who would dare‘to‘oppose something~~~

 

COMMENTS.

SOME UNPALATABLE FACTS.

The Chairman is reported to have said that he was
very much concerned with the outbreak at Anstey,
where they had 31 cases.

“In this instance,” he said, “he had done his best to
persuade parents to have their children treated, and now
parents were turning round on him and saying that when
there was no immunisation there was'no diphtheria, but
after taking his advice they had had the worst outbreak
in the history of Anstey. What was he to answer?
He brought the matter up before the County Counc1l
Public Health Committee, but got no satisfaction. These
youngsters were immunised last January, and, according
to what was claimed, should have been free from the
disease. The only satisfaction was that, as Mr. Rudkin
said, the children had a mild attack. It might have been
severe, but, of course, no one could say this with,
certainty . . .”

Our comment is that we have not, surely, reached
the stage where free comment on and consideration of
all facts relevant to such a grave threat to the health
of the child community must be suppressed “ because
the countryvis at war.” W 2 note, with, satisfaction,
that on a,- vote being taken only eight members
supported the views expressed by Mr. Galloway and
ten members voted against. The last wo—rd has by no
means yet been said concerning the efﬁcacy of

diphtheria (alleged) immunisation.

THE (S)CHICK TEST.

A Leading Article in the British Medical Journal of
January 2nd, 1943) tells us, among other things on
the Control of Diphtheria that:

“Another American contribution to the control of
diphtheria is the use of chicks in testing for virulence.
Frobisher, Parsons and T’ung injected Plymouth Rock
chicks from 7 to 20 days old with 0.5 c.cm. to I c.cm..
subcutaneous doses of 48—hour broth cultures of strains
of ,C. diphtheria and found excellent agreement (99.7 per"
cent.) with the results previously obtained with rabbits.
Perhaps the method might ﬁnd some application in this
country, where the quality of guinea-pigs and other
laboratory animals for virulence and other tests is poor;
it is unfortunate that there is no natural scheme for the
large—scale breeding of healthy stocks.”

(Unfortunate for whom?) ‘

THE JUNGLE.

H. G, Wells’ talk on the wireless (January 15th,.
1943), contained one pronouncement which completely
anihilates the claims of the advocates of insulin who
claim that it has solved the problem of diabetes.

Mr. Wells, who is especially interested in this
subject, and is, in fact President of the Diabetic A550“
ciation stated that “ . . , What we know about diabetes
is a jungle of unanswered questions,” and went on to
appeal for more workers in the ﬁeld of experimental
science and more resources for their use. _

,We venture to suggest that just so long as scientiﬁc ’
research is carried out along the lines of animal
experimentation just so long shall we get involved ever
more. and more deeply in the jungle of unanswered
questions,

 




 

THE ANTI—VlVISECT’IO’N NEWS—SHEET

F e brwary, 1943

WA”!—

 

orr THE RAILS.

We frequently make reference to the fallacies which
have been introduced in the study of medicine via
vivisection, but we do not often get the support which
should be forthcoming for our contentions from
members of the medical profession who are the worst
sufferers from this defect. It was refreshing, there—
fore, to see in a recent number of a well—known
*medical Journal, a criticism of present teaching
methods which ’ id lay considerable stress on this aspect
of the case. '

.On the methods in vogue for the teaching of
physio-logy, the article said :

“. . . i think I‘may safely express the opinion that
human pnyswlogy is nonlonger a subject in the medical
curriculum. Eliysmlogy is the science of normal function.
l-‘lunian physiology must, therefore, be the science of
normal. function of man in his normal, healthy state, not
With his brain destroyed or his ureters ligatured or in
some other abnormal condition. Yet this is physiology
as taught to-day.”

Here, indeed, is hard hitting commentary. It gets
straight to the point, with a directness which is com—
mendable; it gives cogent expression to an uneasy
doubt which has been felt by many students in the

1 . I) . 1

past wno have been troubled in mind by the thought
that they do not learn sufﬁcrent of what to aim for in
health as opposed to what to look out for in disease.
Further point is added to the critiCISm by a reasonable
expose of the misleading animal experiments which
form so large a part. of the curriculum. We are told 2

” Decerebrate animals, animals under all kinds _of
abnormally—induced states are being used by physrologists
to teach students ”results of experiments which have not
the slightest bearing on hinian medicine. Humans are
not mice, rats, rabbits, cats, dogs, or even frogs. They
are humans With surely a. much higher and more reﬁned

Even physr—

structure than. any of the lower animals.
«ologists are often forced to admit that the result of this
or that animal experiment may not be applicable in the

case .of maul Cat what value, therefore, can it be in the
training of medical students?”

Just how little value is placed on a knowledge of
human physmlogy is illustrated by the writer’s
quotation of an advertisement which he once saw, for
a lecturer on physiology to a well—known medical
school. The advertisement, he says, stated :

“ . if the applicant were interested in human
physiology he might be given charge of wards in the
hospital attached to the school.”

He next proceeded to ask in what should a lecturer
on physiology to medical students be interested if it
is not in human physiology? Rightly so. Had it been
a veterinary training school there might be some justi-
ﬁcation for treating an interest in human physiology
as a Side—line but in a medical school it would appear
to be o-bvrous that a. study of human physiology would
come before all else The conclusion reached was
that :

“ This modern teaching of experimental physiology has
rendered the subject of no practical importance to the
medical student and of inﬁnitely less to the medical
practitioner. Worse still, such teaching is often quite
erroneous and mislenning when applied to human
medicme.”

To g1ve po-int to the charge that “ such teaching is
often quite erroneous and misleaaing” is added another
point, namely, that what one physiologist puts forward
as true to—day, another one will condemn as false on
the mo-rrow. In fact, it has not always required
another physiologist to disprove the claims of a
previous investigation. This has, not infrequently, been
done by the same person, and the followmg is a good
illustration of such a case :

“I well remember my old teacher, the late Professor
Rutherford, saying at the opening of one of his lectures:
‘Ah, gentlemen, I told the class_last sessmn quite a
different tale to that which I am gomg to tell you to—day.
Since then i have carried out another series of experi—
merits, and have found the results to be the exact
opposue.’ ”

 

 

 

*Tne TsAcniNG or ANATOMY AND ansiomov, by James
Burnet. M.A., LL.B.(Lond.), Ml). F.R.C.P.E., in the Medical
World, December iith, 1942.

 

 

"'f‘ Mn. .._.‘\_ n.. ..

The article concludes :

“ ‘vVhy cannot medical students be taught the normal
functions of the human body, apart from animal experi-
ments? Only such teaching is of value, and it should be
insisted on in reforming our medical curriculum, If the
leaders in our profession were to look at the whole
question from the general practitioner’s angle they would
soon realise that thebest teachers are those who have
had some training in practice and who know something
of the requirements of medical men as they go about
tending to the sick and injured from day to day . . .”

The above quotations are not those of a “mere lay—
man,” they are the considered opinion of one who

_. stands high in the ranks of the medical profession.

Surely their message is clear for all to understand. It
is that the medical profession is frequently misled
by the false conclusions of the experimental laboratory
in which animal suffering plays so large a part. To
bring to bear the greatest possible amount of organised
opposition to such misleading practices is, therefore, a
real service which it rests in our power to render to
the medical profession, and through them to the great
body of the sick and afflicted to whom they minister.

 

CQLD QQleﬂlRT.

The Shields Gazette (January l3th, 1943) reports a
meeting of the larrow Health Committee at which
Councillor W. Gordon said that “ diphtheria was
increasing while the Council was pushing immunisa—
tion.”

There followed the usual reassurances and excuses
with which we are all so familiar : “The Government
warned the country a year or more ago that diphtheria
could be expected.” “ Half of the population was not
immunised.” “ The position would have been more
serious but for immunisation,” etc, etc.

Councillor Gordon’s last recorded utterances in the
report was to the effect that he “was not or coming
immunisation but there was more diphthxem. u) then
at only time since he become a. member of the C ounce? ”
(our italics).

We find this tendency to question the results of
immunisation very encouraging. VJ e hope that
Councillor Gordon and many others who are experienc—
ing similar doubts, will study as fully as possible the
cases both for and against immunisation and then
act accordingly.

   

ONE. MAN’S MEAT.

There is an old saying to the effect that “One
man’s meat is another man’s poison ” which means,
in effect, that what is good for, and consequently
desired by one man may be bad for and consequently
dreaded by another. This is brought home to us by
a cutting from the Sunday Chronicle (January lOth.
1943‘s), as follows : '

“ S O S FOR RATS.

“The Association of Scientiﬁc Workers, meeting in
London yesterday, called for a 15-year national plan for
breeding ‘standard’ rats, mice, guinea—pigs and ferrets
for research, to end the present shortage.”

One section of the community desires the extermina-
tion of rats, mice, etc, and one department of our
public services is carrying out this policy at a cost of
many thousands of pounds per annum, but the labora—
tory workers, always a. privileged community, can ask
for an increased breeding plan and nobody seems. to
demand that their income should be cut off for “ going
agin’ the government.”

UNBELIEVABLE ?

Would you like to double your contribution to our
work for the animals? We believe you would, but
financial stringency prevents you from doing so.
You can do it without extra cost to yourself. Write
for further information to the Secretary, London and
Provincial Anti—Vivisection Society, 76 Victoria Street,
London, S.W.l.




Feb rotary, , 1943.

 

 

FROM THE TORTURE CHAMBER.

By W. ARR.

*The Lancet (December 26th, 1942) gives a lengthy
account of research recently conducted in the experi—
mental laboratory in connection with gangrene.

Mice were used as the subjects of the experiments,
and highly virulent cultures were injected intra—
muscularly in the right thigh. The substances to be
tested for their prophylactic or therapeutic effect were
injected into the right thigh at the site of infection,
immediately after, or at varying intervals after infec-
tion, as the case may be.

The experimenters state that by a new method which
they adopted:

“ It was possible to obtain highly virulent cultures with
much greater regularity than with Robinson’s meat broth,
Throughout the experiments we found that the intra-
muscular injection in the right thigh of 0.1 c.cm. of a
washed suspension containing 2,000 or 4,000 million Cl.
uzeirhii and 0.1 c.cm. of 5 per cent. calcium chloride was
sufficient to kill all untreated mice within 24; hours. This
dose has usually been equivalent to at least 100 lethal
doses and is therefore a severe test of preventive and

measures.”

. .
. a . s ‘
nerapeuiic

‘Nith this potent preparation at their disposal the
“men of science” were all set for their experiment,
and as mice are plentiful they were assured of a good
supply of raw material for their experiments. By the
way, it should be noted that mice used for these
experiments are not usually the sort with which we are
all familiar, which raid our pantries and annoy us in
other w vs fro-m time to time, but are a selected strain
whichﬁred specially for laboratory research work,
people
them as others devote their lives to breeding special
strains of cattle which will give high milk yields.

That a colossal number of these unfortunate
creatures were available for these experiments is
indicated by the fact that one table alone, out of the
three tables published in connection with the account,
shoved l68 mice subjected to 20 different experimei‘its
and refers to the fact that a control group of untreated
mice in each experiment all died within 24- hours.
Thus we have a total of 168 plus 20 multiplied by “ X ”
mice in this one table alone. Of the l68 treated mice
25 died during the first day, 23 the second day and l0
the third day lca 'ing llO survivors as subjects for
further experiments as and when required. The next
table gave the results of experiments on 84 mice, of
which 136 died in the course of experiment and 48!
survivcd, again with the added proviso that in each of
the 10 experiments in this group of tests a control group
of untreated mice, cor/trail in number" to the treated
groups, all died within 24 hours, giving a total death
roll of 36 plus 84=l20. The third table gave results of
l5 experiments in which 150 treated mice and 15%;
control mice were used. Of this total there were only
65 who survived to serve as future experimental
material. Mouse breeding for the laboratories must be
a profitable business!

The amount of useful information obtained from
these researches which carried suffering and lingering
death for so many of our fellow: creatures may be
judged. from the comment of the experimenters that:

“it will become evident, however, that there were
conSiderable variations in the severity of the infection,
in that there was a variable response to treatment with
the same drug.” (Our italics.)

If there was a variable response to treatment with
the same drug, despite the fact that all the mice had
received a like amount of infection from a source of

 

 

 

cvoting their lives to the work of breeding"

 

 

M
W-..“

-_~4.....__.-'/* “<4

 

exactly comparable virulence, how can such shaky
results be utilised in a.pplica.tion-——not to mice but to
men?

The admittedly variable results obtained in this
series of experiments varied, also, from the results of
previous experiments which are quoted by the authors.
For instance, one of the experiments was concerned
with the action of zinc peroxide, and we are told that :

“. . . Reed and Orr (1942) found that in CI. welchii
infection in guinea—pigs the local application of zinc
peroxide was a powerful prophylactic and that it was
only slightly less effective than sulphathiazole in an
established infection. On the other hand, Bliss, Long and
Smith (1941) found that zinc peroxide administered
locally had no effect on Cl. weld/iii infection in mice but
was effective against infections with CE. septique, Cl.
cedemai'iens and Cl. retain. Our results show that zinc
peroxide is an. effective prophylactic against Cf. roelchii

infection, but is without action once the organisms get
into the tissues.”

This brings us to one of the most cogent arguments
against the whole theory of malignant organisms as
causes of diseases. it is possible that each of the
research workers ahove listed, did get the varying
results which they quoted and which seem. to be
mutually destructive. What follows? Surely, if their
line of approach, via malignant microbes, were correct
in any degree whatsoever, it would mean that to obtain
such different results at comparatively short periods
of time would indicate that evolution takes place far
more rapidly in the microbe world than in our own
dimension, which would be a reasonable assumption,
as one can see several generations brought into being
from the same original organism in the brief period
of time spent in watching through the eyepiece of a
microscope. Consequently, one year of time as we
know it may represent millions of generations in the
microscopic scale, time for them to have completely
changed in nature, habit and effect. Hence the germ
theory, on which is based these wicked tortures,
would appear to contain within itself a- very valid
reason why they should be discontinued. That this s
not accepted by those who are dazzled by constant;
laboratory research work is indicated by the statement
contained" in the article under examination, to the effect
that following on the investigations now reported :

“‘vVQ have experiments in hand on the effects of the
new acridines described by Albert and others (1938) and
Rubbo, Albert and Maxwell (1942') in clostridial
infections.”

Meanwhile, more and more generations of hapless
animals are subjected to the tortures of the laboratories
in experiments such as are listed above, and which are
classed merely as “ drugrtesting ” experiments. '

Do these experiments inflict suffering? I doubt
there is a man or woman living who would dare to
give “ no” as an answer to that question. To
deliberately cause gangrene in a living animal whether
the animal recovers or goes on to an agonizing death
anything up to three days later, undoubtedly inﬂicts
suffering. ls such suffering for the good of the creature
on whom it is inﬂicted? Positively not.

The above then, we claim, indicates that Vivisection

 

 

is both scientiﬁcally misleading and morally
unjustiﬁable.

* “ Zinc Peroxide, Proflavine and Pencillin in Experimental
Cl. welchii Infections.” James Mclntosh, Ml), LLD. (Aberd;
and F. R Selbie, MI}, (Aberd). .

 




8 THE ANTI-VIVISECTIO‘N NEWS~SHEET

February, 1943

 

 

-.__.~.....c .‘~~W»—. .ci.._.-......--_ -_..,

 

IN FULL CRY!

In a recent session of the B.B.C.’s popular “ Brains
Trust ” feature, Commander Campbell expressed him-
self in no uncertain terms on the question of immuni-
' sation by way of inoculations of sera and vaccines.
There have been previous expressions from the BBC.
on this subject which were favourable and earned a
commendatory pat on the back from supporters of
these methods, but on this occasion, to the obvious
consternation of all concerned the verdict was
deﬁnitely “anti.”

We anticipated that it would not be long before
the gallant Commander would ﬁnd the hounds on his
track, seeking to “pull him down for the (metaphoric)
kill.” Already the furore has started. Here is a cutting
received within a few days of the event showing what
may be expected. It is from the Manchester Daily
Dispatch, dated January 7th, 1943 :

“ Wharfedale Union Joint Hospital Board is to protest
to the Ministry of Health over remarks by Comdr.
Campbell on inoculation at a Brains Trust session.

“Mr. William Whiteley, of Pool, said at yesterday’s
meeting that he did not think a man should be paid
public money to criticise immunisation and other methods
of protection against disease. '

,“ He thought it was monstrous that a man should
make such remarks after time and money had been spent
on publicity to draw attention to the dangers of such
diseases as diphtheria. This man was paid to entertain
and instruct the public, not to undermine the efforts for
the good of public health.”

FREEDOM or EXPRESSION.

There have been many occasions on which we have
had to listen to statements coming over the loud—
speaker with which we are by no means in agreement,
but our method is to ask that an opposition point of
View might be stated by some qualiﬁed person. The
present “ heresy-hunters ” do not make such a request.
If they did, and if the BBC agreed to arrange a
debate at which both sides of this question could be
stated, we should be only too happy to arrange for a
fully qualiﬁed medical practitioner to state our side of
the case, but apparently, the desire of the pro—
immunisers is that only their point of view should be
heard and if someone honestly and sincerely, accord-
ing to his convictions, gives utterance to the opposite
point of view, nothing less will content them than that
his income should be cut off at the source.

Is this the “Freedom.- of Expression’ for which,
among other desirable things, the United Nations are
now ﬁghting?

6.3.5. ON PAVLOV.

This is what George Bernard Shaw has written in
The Listener (January 14th, 1943) about Pavlov’s
cruel experiments on dogs :

“The unfortunate man spent twenty-ﬁve years in silly
and sometimes revoltingly cruel experiments on dogs, all
of which were failures, and ﬁnally admitted by him to be
failures. The test of an experiment is the experimenter’s
success in repeating it with the same result every time.
Pavlov failed every time; but he announced every failure
as a new discovery. When the result was the reverse
of the expected one, he concluded, not that he was wrong,
but that the unfortunate dog’s brain was in ‘a negative
phase’. When he tried to reproduce the negative phase
and failed again, he claimed another discovery: an
exc1tatory phase, Again he tried to reproduce this new
phenomenon, and, failing again, added to his discoveries
an inhibitory phase. The ’next failure was called a
paradoxical phase, and the next, in a climax of taxono-
mania (classiﬁcation madness), an ultra-pardoxical phase.
Sir Leonard surely cannot mistake this childishness for a
process of reasoning.

“ Pavlov also tried to localise the impact of sensation
on the brain by the old barbarous method of cutting out
portions of it, and seeing what wouldhappen to the
animal thus mutilated. Ali. his locaiisations failed. But
this did not discourage him in the least. He announced
that the impression on the brain ‘radiated” that the

’

currents in the nerve ‘induced ’ currents in neighbouring

2

 

 

 

 

nerves; and that they also produced both excitatory and
inhibitive effects. Thus, no matter how the experiment
turned out, Pavlov was always right.

“ All this nonsense was swallowed because Pavlov was
by profession a priest of science, who sacriﬁced animals
to his no~god, and because he called brains cerebral
cortices. I wonder what Dr, Huxley would say of me
if I made a fool of myself to the same extent, Read the
chapters on specialisation in his latest book, and you
will ﬁnd him losing patience with the botheration set up-
by such ridiculous taxonomy, and getting into inextricable
difﬁculties with Weismann’s soma and phyla, selectivity
and adaptivity, and all the other bogus laboratory classi—
ﬁcations. For Pavlov was not the inventor of the taxo»
nomaniac game: he only reduced it to blazing absurdity.
And the poor fellow died imploring his successors to go
on measuring the universe by the salivation of dogs, and
to have nothing to do with phychology or philosophy or
aesthetics or common humanity. He must have damaged
Sis own cerebral cortex even more than those of his

ogs.”

Any comment of ours would be a mere gilding of
the lily. We can but heartily applaud the utterances
of this brilliant mind of one of our most sincere of
modern humanitarians.

WAR ON COLDS.

Many people still appear to prefer vaccines and sera
as preventatives of ailments which might be far more
effectively dealt with by the use of other methods. The
other methods may require something more efﬁcient
in the way of Social organisation, such as better
drainage and general sanitation (i.e., smallpox, typhoid,
etc.), or, it may be, just a little thought and considera-
tion on the part of public authorities and other large—r
scale employers. In either case, the tendency is to: seek
some universal cure—all in the way of a serum or a
vaccine, rather than tackle the real source of the
trouble.

A typical case is the following which, apﬁred, inn, ,
the Manchester Evening N evis (January 151', ,*- 943):
~ “Blackburn Corporation have started aQ-‘campaign
against colds amongst their employees by urging them
to submit to free anti—cold inoculations.

“ So far only employees in the electricity department
have had the treatment, but other employees are being
advised to be inoculated also,

“One north-west health ofﬁcial told the Manchester
Evening News that there is considerable difference of
opinion about the value of vaccine for colds.”

GETTING WARMER.

The above item reminded us of something noticed
in a cutting from the Northern Daily Telegraph of”
the previous day’s date, which we looked up and have
pleasure in quoting here :

“ KEEPING WARM.
By ‘ Conductress,’ Blackburn. '

“I wonder if the critics of Blackburn Corporation
Transport Department employees are aware or the con~
ditions under which we work? I am not grumbling at
the long hours which we, more or less, take for granted
as part of the job; but at the total lack of any hot food.
During the three winters we have worked the only thing
warm we have been provided with has been hot water-

“The Corporation is introducing an anti-cold vaccme.
Would it not be a much simpler and a more cheerful
way to provrde some means by which we could have
soup or some hot meal?

“ It is time something was done about this. No wonder
there is a big sick list during the winter months.”

“ Conductress” of Blackburn is certainly ‘getting
warmer” in the metaphorical sense, and we agree
with her that a little thought and planning devoted
to the question of providing regular facilities. for
really warming beverages and hot meals for those
engaged in exposed duties would be far more effective
1n preventing colds than all the ﬁlthy vaccines, and,
what is more to the point, would be free from the
dangerous after effects of so many of these alleged
“immunising” inoculations and vaccinations.

(

 

Published by the London and Provincial Anti-Vivisection Society at their Offices, 76. Victoria Street, London, S.W.I.

’Phonei VICtoria 7389; and Printed by the Carlton Press (F. J. Wilson 57 Son Ltd), Chesham, Backs, February, 1943.

 




