‘.‘

, 4

MM ,   --    .  .. ~ +5.4!"

v 4 ‘ “3' » ‘I'l

«I

m nun macaw».- aanamous arms ow DEA ~ hams? o

‘
_‘

 




 

 

 

 

 

 




ON
CRUEL SPORTS.

V
3
O
N
D
S
H
H
V
N
G
au
0
O
H

 




 

Ia.
Ib.
II.
11a.

11b.
11c.
III.
IV.

VI.
VII.

CON TEN TS

One Hundred Years Ago
Carted Deer Hunting
Wild Deer Hunting
Fox Hunting

Transfer and Importation of Foxes for
Hunting

Humane Destruction of Foxes
Farmers and Fox Hunting
Hare Hunting

Hare Coursing

Rabbit Coursing

Otter Hunting

Badger Digging

Appendix

PAGE

12
I4
16
I9
20
21
21
24
27

 

Published by

The Oxford and District Society for Abolition of Cruel Sports.

 

 




 

'Jﬁr‘r 4. . A;

 

 

One Hundred Years Ago.
Hamard, jab! 14, 1,835.

“ CRUELTY TO ANIMALS.

Mr. Pease moved that this Bill be re—committed. He
trusted that the Bill would be suffered to pass as it was
eminently calculated to prevent the dreadful cruelties
which were daily practised towards animals. He would
be the last man in the world to support the measure if it
tended to abridge the amusements of the poorer classes ;
but he was persuaded that it would have no such effect.

Sir Matthew White Ridley, opposing, said that the
Acts already in existence were amply sufﬁcient for all the
purposes contemplated. It appeared to him too that the
Bill, while it left coursing, shooting, ﬁshing, etc., the
amusements of the higher classes, untouched, it infringed
too much on those of the humbler classes.”

Ayes 30, Noes 16.
This bill prohibited bull-baiting, and bear~baiting,
as well as cruelty to domestic animals.

“ From the admitted right to torture the fox Windham
inferred the right to torture the bull. From the admitted
sin of torturing the bull I infer the sin of torturing the

fox.”
Prof. E. A. FREEMAN.

 




 

 

4
I. Deer Hunting.

IA. THE HUNTING OF CARTED DEER.

This sport consists of hunting a park deer, usually
deprived of its antlers, till it can go no further. The
hounds are then whipped off and the deer is taken back
in its cart, to be hunted again another day.

An eye-witness, writing in December, 1950, describes
such a hunt as follows :

“We overtook on the high road a very exhausted
stag ambling along the road, for it was too tired to run,
surrounded by half a dozen yelping and snapping hounds.
The deer’s tongue was protruding and there were marks
of blood on its ﬂank and from one eye. The poor beast
almost fell into a large ditch with a dead end, upon
which the dogs made a furious attack on it, but it
managed to get out and stagger on to the road.”

In cases where the hunt takes place near the sea, it is
by no means unusual for the deer to swim out to sea and
drown rather than face the hounds.

“ Found dead, ﬂoating in the sea not far from here, a
stag has been landed by two Dymchurch ﬁshermen. The
animal is believed to be one which was chased by the
Mid-Kent Staghounds on Saturday, and went into the
sea during a thick fog.” Evening Nezw, Der. 82%, 1930.

Some years ago, a deer swimming out in the Channel
was rescued by a French ship, which conveyed it to
France. It lived there in a park for several years, a living
reminder to the French of English cruelty.

DEFENCE OF CARTED DEER HUNTING.

This sport is usually defended on the ground that it is
not cruel, since the hunt does not end in a kill. Even at
its best, however, it closely resembles the extinct plebeian
sport of tying a tin can to a dog’s tail—which is supposed
to be gross brutality. At its worst the animal may suffer
terrible injuries such as being impaled on spiked railings.

 

 

 




 

 

 

5
13. THE HUNTING OF THEWILD DEER.

Mr. A. Biddiscombe, ].P., wrote as follows in the
Bridger/afar Mercury of November 28th, 1934.

“ On Thursday afternoon, the 22nd inst., whilst in
my garden, my atention was directed to the Quantock
road, from which position I saw a ﬁne specimen hind
coming in my direction closely followed by a pack of
hounds. Jumping a hedge 100 yards away into an
adjoining ﬁeld it turned right, made a futile effort to scale
a wall about ﬁve feet high, and then collapsed, being
completely exhausted. By this time hounds came through
the hedge and though the poor hunted creature sought to
evade the pack lusting for its blood, it was surrounded
and pounced upon, thus failing in a last desperate effort
to get free. Words fail to describe the scene of barbarism
and cruelty which went on for several minutes until
someone came and beat the dogs away. The poor
creature being still alive, I ask,—-—why was not a humane
killer used instead of a knife?

I shall never forget the awful death~cry of the helpless
victim of so-called British “ sport ” whose only crime is
that it eats grass. Would this kind of thing be tolerated,
think you, if it were the sport of the working-man?
Your readers will be able to appreciate something of the
victim’s agony when I state that its condition was ghastly,
some of its hind-quarters had been torn away by the fury
of the dogs. I might add that in its last vain effort to
' scale the wall the poor animal had torn much of the skin
off its fore-legs .......

‘This was one of the best runs we’ve had!’ I over-
heard one gentleman remark. This affair commenced at
10.30 a.m. and it was now 2.45 pm. One young lady
treasured the hair of the victim, which she placed in her
handkerchief as a momento of her part at the kill.”

The red deer of Exmoor are pursued until exhausted,
brought to bay either on land or in a stream, and

 




 

 

 

6

“ bayed ” by the hounds for some time. At last they are
dragged out with ropes and slaughtered by the huntsman.
There have been many cases of hunted deer leaping over
the cliffs in their terror. The male stags are hunted from
August to November; the hinds from December to
March. The sport was investigated by the R.S.P.C.A. in
1929: following the inspector’s report a bill against it
was introduced in 1930.

DEFENCE OF EXMOOR DEER-HUNTING.

The principal defence of this sport is that the deer on
Exmoor cannot be kept down by rifle—shooting. Some
apologists for stag—hunting assert that such shooting
would result in a large number of deer escaping to die of
wounds. Others maintain that it would be dangerous to
human life.

The following evidence points to the contrary con-
clusion:

(1) Lord Bayford, when he was Master of the Devon
and Somerset Stag Hounds, proposed the shooting of a
hundred hinds each year. '

(2) After the war, Lord Fortescue thanked Fred
Gosse the harbourer for his success in keeping down the
deer during the war when hunting was in abeyance.

(3) On February 3rd, 1933, the Alana/sexier Guardian
reported that a deer-drive and shoot was carried out by
the Devon and Somerset Hunt, the venison being given
to the unemployed.

Under present conditions such large herds’bf deer are
kept up for sport that they are a continual nuisance to
the farms and are therefore liable to be persecuted by the
farmers, by being trapped in nooses or shot at with shot-
guns, as well as by the hunt. It is probable that the
shooting by the Devon and Somerset Hunt recorded
above was resorted to on account of an unusually heavy
deer-damage bill.

 

——-4' .3

 




 

 

 

7

Opponents of stag-hunting wish to see the deer kept
down by skilled Rangers, who would probably be as
successful as the Rangers employed to keep down wild
animals in the American National Parks.

The following concessions have been secured owing to ‘

humanitarian agitation:

(I) The hind—hunting season now comes to an end
in March instead of in April. When it was carried on
into April the hunting of gravid hinds was more frequent
than it is now. Collyn’s in his “ Notes on the Chase of
the Wild Red Deer,” records that in one hunt, when a
hunted hind was paunched “a calf was taken from her
almost able to stand.”

(2) Some years ago the Devon and Somerset Hunt
announced that it would no longer send boats after deer
that had gone to sea.

(5) In some cases, but by no means always, the deer
are killed with a humane killer instead of with a knife.

THE FALLOW DEER OF THE NEw FOREST.

These little deer are also hunted, and when run down
may either be butchered by the huntsman or killed by the
hounds. Sir George Greenwood describes this sport
as follows:

“ These poor little animals are often as unﬁt for the
chase as a man who leads a sedentary life is to run a race,
and when hunting is carried on in thick woods, such as
those of the New Forest, it frequently happens that the
hounds are on to the exhausted deer and cruelly maul and
bite it, before the huntsman can arrive on the scene in
order to end its sufferings by the knife. Moreover in these
woods on windy days it may sometimes occur, and no
huntsman or whip can prevent it———that three or four
hounds get away after another deer than the one hunted
by the rest of the pack, and pull it down nobody knows
where, worrying it, and finally leaving it to die a lingering

 




 

 

8

death somewhere in the recesses of the forest. A man
who had lived all his life in the forest and whose business
was such that his interest lay in the continuance of this
ignoble sport, once said to me: “ Sir, if the people of
England only knew how cruel it is to hunt these fallow
deer in these thick woods, they would put a stop to it
to—morrow.’ ”

For further information on stag—hunting see:

The Hunting of tbe Stag. National Society for the Abolition
of Cruel Sports, 4 Tavistock Square, W.C.I.

Stag—lazzmz'ng on Exmoor. R.S.P.C.A., Jermyn Street, SW. 1-
T/Je Bag)! and the Alert. R.S.P.C.A., Jermyn Street, S.W.I.

II. Fox' Hunting.

“A kill in a drawing—room where a retired school-
master was dozing by the ﬁre, was effected by the
Whaddon Chase hounds on Saturday .....

Confronted with high walls and wire fences, and with
hounds close behind, Reynard smashed head ﬁrst through
the plate—glass drawing—room window. Hounds followed,
and a most amazing scene was witnessed. The fox tried
to escape by the chimney, although there was a fire alight
in the grate.”

Barking/54¢}; Adz/affirm; D60”. mt, I 95 4.

That fox-hunting as we know it in England to-day is an
entirely artiﬁcial sportt‘t, is clear from the admitted fact
that fox—hunters spare no pains to prevent the shooting of
foxes. The transfer and rearing of foxes by hunts when
the supply has run short is dealt with in another section.
The system of fox-preservation for sport grew up during
the eighteenth century: in the fourteenth century foxes
seem to have been caught with nets for the sake of their
skins.

* except in the Lake District where foxes are not preserved.

 




9

The procedure of a fox-hunt is as follows: the night
before a hunt the fox—earths in the neighbourhood are
stopped by earth-stoppers, so that the animal is deprived of
his natural refuge. In the morning the coverts are searched
for foxes until one is started. If, in spite of the efforts of the
earth-stoppers, the fox succeeds in ﬁnding a refuge, he is
bolted with terriers or otherwise disloged. In a successful
hunt the fox is pursued to complete exhaustion and either
killed in the open or dug out of an earth and thrown to
the hounds. A hunted fox may take refuge in a private
house as in the case above, or in a chimney. The hunts
justify the use of fire to smoke out a beaten fox in such a
case. A prosecution in 19 30 in connection with such an
incident failed on the ground that the fox was not a
captive animal.

The fox is a member of “ Cam'dae ” (the dog
family) and is a highly intelligent and sensitive animal.
At the beginning of a hunt the fox may not always realise
that he is in serious danger, especially if he has not been
hunted before: but as soon as he realises he is running
for his life he shows the utmost anxiety and distress._
Moreover the more heated the fox becomes the stronger
is his scent, so that his danger is increased.

Mortimer Batten, the naturalist, describes the hunted
fox thus : “ Many a good fox who has fooled and bafﬂed
the hounds and given them a glorious run has won his
freedom at the cost of his physical fitness. Emerging at
length from his sanctuary after a rest of many hours, he
is no longer the wonderful running machine that he was
when the hounds took up his scent; but is now a
broken creature, lungs gone, heart gone, merely a physical
wreck.”

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

I O
Cub Hunting.

Fox-hunting proper is preceded by cub-hunting, which
may begin early in August. The young cubs which are
still in the care of the vixen, and have been born in the
previous April or May, are dug out and hunted. The
object of cub-hunting is both to train the young hounds
and to terrify the surviving cubs, so that they may give
better “ sport ” at a later season.

. The following extracts are from Lord Willoughby de
Broke’s Hunting f/Je Fox.

“During cub-hunting the cub should always be dug
out and eaten unless there are very obvious reasons to the
contrary.”

“ One really well—beaten cub killed is worth more than
almost any amount of fresh ones chopped before the
hounds have had to work for them . . . . . There are few
things in fox-hunting of more value to the morale of the
hounds than to ﬁnish a long dragging morning by re-ﬁnd—
ing a leg—weary cub and killing him after a good cry
lasting about a quarter of an hour.”

“ It should not be forgotten that the old vixen will very
likely dodge about in the covert to the very last minute

in the hope of saving her cubs by diverting attention to
herself.”

Defences of Fox-hunting.

1. THAT HUNTING KEEPS DOWN FOXES AND THAT IF
THEY WERE NOT HUNTED THEY WOULD BE TRAPPED.

The fox~hunting system, so far from keeping down
foxes, keeps up a large supply of foxes to provide sport.
Therefore, so far from being an alternative to trapping it
indirectly encourages it, since the excessive numbers of
foxes present in any hunting country are a continual

huf‘ ‘~




”V

II

nuisance to the farmer and a corresponding opportunity
for the trapper. ' (See Section 11a).

The .remedy for both hunting and trapping is the
humane destruction of foxes. It is easy for the owner
of land on which foxes have their earths to destroy
them in a humane manner. (See Section IIb). It is
far more difficult for farmers raided by foxes bred on
neighbouring lands to defend themselves, so that fox-
preservation for hunting encourages every kind of cruelty.

2. THAT SHOOTING IS MORE CRUEL THAN HUNTING.
(See Section 11b).

5. THAT IT IS A KINDNESS ON THE PART OF THE
HUNTS TO PREVENT THE EXTERMINATION OF FOXES.

This argument is sometimes used by those who claim
to be particularly sensitive to the beauty of wild life. It
is much to be regretted that such sensibility to beauty
should be combined with such insensibility to suffering.
The preservation of the species cannot possibly justify
cruelty to the individual animals: if it did we should
have to justify the keeping and breeding Of domestic
animals by cruel Owners. There will of course always be
foxes in wild hill—districts.

4. THAT THE Fox HAS A GOOD CHANCE OF ESCAPE.

This only means that more than one attempt may be
required for a successful kill. ‘The hunted fox only
escapes to be hunted again, unless he is killed by someone
else. A retiring master of the Cattistock Hunt stated
that in his time the hunt had been out 4829 days and
killed 4126 foxes. It is rare for a day to pass without at
least one kill. Moreover a fox which escapes after a long
hunt frequently dies of exhaustion and terror.

 




 

 

 

 

12

5. THAT HUNTING GIVES EMPLOYMENT, HAS ECONOMIC
VALUE AND BRINGS \VEALTH INTO THE COUNTRY.

Hunting gives some employment but prevents more,
since it hampers the development of agriculture. Its
economic value is therefore negative. Districts like
Norfolk, where there is very little hunting, are not
destitute of big estates and wealthy patrons. (See Section
IIc on Farmer: and Fox—bunting.)

If the drag-hunt (hunting an artiﬁcial scent) were
substituted for fox—hunting, the interests of grooms, horse-
breeders, etc., would not suffer. The advantage of the
drag is three—fold; it involves no cruelty, the scent
can be laid so as to avoid damage, and there are no
“ blank days.”

1121. Importation and Rearing of Foxes for Hunting.

When there is a shortage of foxes inany district the
local hunt may augment their numbers by importation or
transfer from other localities. It should be realised that
this is not an exceptional and disreputable practice, like
embezzlement of funds by a solicitor, but a recognised
means of keeping up fox—hunting. The Master of the
Pembrokeshire Hunt in 1928, when the Hunt appealed
for funds to restock the district with foxes, said that it
was disgraceful that it was ”warmly to restock the country.
He was, it seems, unable to realize that it was disgraceful
for the Hunt to demand a fresh supply of victims.

A large number of foxes required for hunting are taken
from the hill-districts of Scotland. They are also pro—
cured from non—hunting districts in England. The
following extract is from the Bray/Jam fez/rim], jzme 2nd,
1934. _

“For some time it had been apparent, that there was a
fox’s lair in the neighbourhood ..... and considerable
interest was aroused when George Goodwin (The First
Whip of the North Cotswold Hunt) came from Broadway

. - $7344.

 




'3

 

13

to capture the animals. Assisted by a number of parish—
ioners he' dug along the brook ..... and soon came
across a nest of three parts grown cubs within ﬁfty yards.
of the main road. After considerable spade work and
with frequent pauses for refreshment the party captured
ﬁve rubs. The parent foxes were not captured. Activities
were kept up until a late hour and Mr. Goodwin took the
cubs to Broadway where they willbe reared for hunting.”

Richard Clapham in Foxey, Foxhound: cmd Foxbum‘z’ng
says: “It is for various reasons sometimes ”granary“ to
take up a litter of cubs and keep them for a while in
captivity. As a rule such litters when of suitable age are
turned down where they will ‘ do the most good.’ ”

“ There was and is still some demand for healthy cubs
and adult foxes for re-stocking purposes and if the con~
sequent supply had been conﬁned to foxes from the
non~hunting districts of Scotland and other parts of
Great Britain we should have been spared the epidemics
of mange that have so often broken out. A healthy hill
fox makes a welcome change of blood and helps to
increase the stamina of his low country relations: but
the importation of foreign foxes, carried in ﬁlthy crates
and boxes, is like asking for an outbreak of mange.”

As the above passage indicates, foxes are sometimes
even imported from abroad. J, R Young in Foxbuntz'ng
(published early in 1934) says :

“ Since the hard rider could not ride hard after nothing,
the habit of putting down bag foxes or of stocking the
country through a dealer became fairly general, and some
strange beasts appeared in the country. Leadenhall was the
great distributing centre and over a thousand foxes a year
were being sent out from there as late as the middle of
the last‘century. These were chieﬂy Dutch foxes .....
To—day, though foxes may be procured from some
country that is not hunted over, there is a moderation

’our italics.

—— —.———... w: u- .»
W... .._..__——- -w-t \

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

I4

observed dictated by experience and commonsense .....
Scottish foxes sent to the South of England have been
found not unreasonably to suffer from the long journey. . . .
If one part of a country is short of foxes the deﬁciency
can often be supplied from wooded combes or cliffs near
by, and cubs taken from these places, kept healthy for a
time in good quarters, and then turned down and pro-
vided with rabbits until they have made themselves at
home, will repay the care they have been given in the
best possible way.”

IIb. Humane Destruction of Foxes.

I. SHOOTING.

Since fox-hunters frequently maintain that the shooting
of foxes is bound to result in a large number escaping to
die of wounds, we ventured to enquire of the authorities
at Whipsnade Zoo what methods they used when it was
necessary to destroy foxes which had been attacking the
geese at Whipsnade. Dr. Chalmers Mitchell kindly
replied as follows :

“ In reply to your letter of September 8th, I have to say
that our Park at Whipsnade is in the centre of a district
where there are a great many foxes, and one or two
coverts were inside our boundaries. W’hen we enclosed
the Park we caught with nets and bags as many foxes as
we could, and liberated them outside the boundary.
Since then we have been troubled occasionally by foxes
getting in. We found that the best way was to locate
them and then have an organised beat with guns
surrounding the thicket in which they were. At no time
has a fox escaped us or got away wounded.”

Whipsnade Park was made from a derelict farm and is
an enclosed piece of hunting country. It is clear that
any landowner who has keepers or assistants can destroy
foxes in this manner.

1
Q

Q»




.— o...

,.._.-. .M -.._.-...- ._.__» ...,—...‘_-m. »_ »:_

15

Foxes may also be bolted from their earths and shot, or
killed by hand. Richard Clapham in Ft x33, Foxbozmo’r and
Foxbuntiﬂg, speaking of the destruction of mangy foxes,
say‘s, “ a shot gun, held straight, is the best antidote for a
fox with .the mange.”

II. DESTRUCTION BY MOTOR~CAR EXHAUST GAS.

In [Man comm Rabbit, published by the University of
London Animal \X/elfare Society, directions are given for
exterminating rabbits, if not required for the market, with
motor—car exhaust gas. “

To produce go: ricb in carbon monoxide .' Run the engine
till warm and keep running at moderate speed. Enrich
the mixture till smoke appears. Then weaken the mixture
by letting in air till smoke just disappears. The maximum
of CD will thus be obtained.

To convoy gam 2‘0 barrowy. Use 1-inch hose-pipe, which
may be 20 or so ft. long, if zcméz'mécd. Connect this to
exhaust-pipe either (I) by means of a short sleeve made of
radiator tubing or (2) by means of a funnel made out of
sheet metal, about 9 ins. long, 1;}; in. in diameter at the
wider end, and i} in. in diameter at the narrow end, the
latter being inserted into the exhaust pipe while the hose
is inserted into the wider end.”

This method is also suitable for the destruction of foxes
when the whereabouts of the earth is known. Carbon
Monoxide is a painless poison, and destruction of under-
ground animals by its means is equivalent to the use of a

. lethal chamber for domestic animals. Motor—car exhaust

gas has often been used as a means of suicide, a fact
which, though lamentable, is a tribute to its deadly and
painless effects.

III. DESTRUCTION BY “CYANOGAS.”

This method requires special apparatus. A farmer
writes :~

 




16

"‘Knowledgeably used, of course, it is in general cir-
cumstances probably the most humane of all methods. It
is effective, quick, and easy and as it becomes more
generally known, will supersede all other methods. I have
an outﬁt and from the demand for its services in my
own area know that it is now almost the exclusive
method. “Cyanogas” is used (calcium cyanide). It is
in ﬁnely divided form and agitated into cloud form under
air pressure and pumped willy-nilly into a fox’s hole or
den. A high concentration is quickly attained and the
gas is released immediately the powder strikes the
atmosphere. It cannot possibly take many inhalations to
bring on unconsciousness and death.”

See also Appendix (2).

 

 

 

IIc. Farmers and Foxhunting.

What is the effect of hunting on farming generally?
The foregoing sections will have shown that it by no
means has the eﬁ‘ect of protecting the farmer from
predatory animals. It is less easy to-day than formerly .
to prevent farmers destroying foxes when they wish to do l
so. But the farmer who destroys foxes on his own land
is none the less pestered by foxes kept on the land of
others who either support the hunt or are intimidated 1
by it.

The hunts are supposed to give compensation for fowls
killedby foxes, but such compensation is nearly always
ridiculously inadequate. A farmer writes in the
Birmingbmz Port: “ A neighbour of mine has lost by
foxes over 100 pedigree laying hens in the last twelve t
months, mostly taken in the daytime though some were ‘
taken from pens into which the foxes burrowed by night.
After some correspondence with the Hunt Secretary a
cheque for £2, which the Secretary explained was ‘all
that he could aﬂ'ord,’ was received.”

In 1929 the Secretary of the Heythrop Hunt, when
asked to settle a claim by some c0ttagers, was reported

 

 




17

to have stated ‘we never pay compensation to cottagers
who have no land for us to ride over.’

Apart from the damage caused by foxes the claim of
the hunts. to ride recklessly over other peoples’ land in
pursuit of their quarry does intolerable damage. A
farmer who has suffered on more than one occasion from
such undesired visits sends the following description :

“On a beautiful early spring morning you may see
your cattle, few or many, lying in the welcome sunshine
after returning from the milking sheds, lazily dreaming or
chewing the cud. The ewes are doing much the same,
their lambs gamboling and coming to rest at their mother’s
side: the old sow is stretched at full length, her back up
against a fallen tree and her large well-doing family asleep
around her: all is peace and contentment and the owner
passes on his way to the work of the day. In spite of
bad times a feeling of pleasure steals through him; he
feels encouraged to fight on, and hope once more springs
eternal in the human breast. He rubs the heads of two
j or three promising heifers which are coming on well for

the local show later in the summer: he stays a minute

to judge their separate merits, and feels his judgement of
f earlier days is on the right lines and that Maria and
Marribell are a well—matched pair which will be hard to
beat when led into the ring before the best judges in the
county ..... However he must not lose more time-—
there is work calling to be done, and he is soon ﬁelds
away. Half an hour passes, and sounds come to his
ears—sounds which have struck a cold chill to his heart
before: then from over a stone wall a little creature,
earth-bound from sweat and mud, briar and thorns
sticking to its draggled coat, struggles on lame, footsore,
and weary, in the hopeless effort to escape its tormentors
who are approaching nearer and nearer. The man has
not got his gun to put the miserable creature out of its
pain of mind and body: Oh that he had it, to save his
stock, lying in that ﬁeld he had left at rest less than an

 

   




 

 

 

 

 

 

18

hour ago! He is running as fast as the tired fox now,
hoping against hope that he will be in time to drive his
stock to safety. Too late—they have passed—the bounds
are on their quarry. The riders are in at the death, the
miserable quivering creature is being broken up, and
congratulations are freely passing: ‘best run of the
season.’ ‘game fox,’ etc., etc. Some child is being
blooded, the bleeding brush is in the hands of its
delighted owner, as is the mask and a pad or two. There
is a slight murmur, a less jubilant gaiety in the laughter
and chatter; \Vhy? What is the heavy dark form which
writhes on the ground? The farmer walks forward and
sees, as in a dream, Marribell on the ground, her leg
hanging loose as she struggles to rise in her pain and
terror: her beautiful large eye, so like a fawn’s is crushed
and bleeding on her cheek: a ﬁnal kick from the best
chaser ever seen has done this, as he fell with his back
broken when the mad collision came.

What was so peaceful an hour before is now a scene of
blood and suffering, sorrow and loss.”

Such are the pleasures and beneﬁts that hunting confers
on the working farmer. It is not surprising that in
Britain to—day only 7 per cent. of the population is on the
land, compared with 19 to 40 per cent. in other European
countries, and that about twenty million pounds a year
are spent annually on imported eggs and poultry.

AA

 

 

 




 

 

19
III. Hare Hunting.

Hares are hunted with beagles (small hounds) or
harriers (larger hounds). A hare is started and hunted if
possible until exhausted. Should the hounds lose the
scent it is the duty of the Master to put them on again.
In its distress the hunted hare will swim rivers, or take
refuge in farms and cowsheds. It will sometimes go into
a rabbit-hole and may then be dug out and thrown to the
hounds.

A. R. Thompson writes in Nature by Nig/Jf, “a run of
eight or ten miles before hounds is usual and the
exhausted hate is often so stiff that it will stand up even,
immediately after death.”

 

DEFENCE OF HARE HUNTING.

This sport is usually defended on the ground that
other methods of killing hares are no less cruel.

This defence is entirely groundless since it is possible
to get close to a sitting hare, and shooting it is an easy
matter. “I have seen a man walk up to a sitting hare
and kick it off its form,” said a countryman the other
day. In fact hares can be humanely kept down by
shooting for the pot.

Shooting hares for sport, with heaters, is a different
matter. The hares are shot running and many are
wounded and left in pain before being killed. This is
not a humane method of keeping down hares, though -
less cruel than hunting or the use of steel traps.

Hares, like foxes, are preserved for sport and are
imported occasionally into districts where they are
scarce. In June, 1951, the Secretary of the Haldon
Harriers announced that {60 had been spent on stocking
the country with hares. In October, I953, a corres-
pondent in Home am! Hound wrote: “ I have been asked by
a friend in a harrier country if I can get him some live
hares to turn down in an area which. is badly stocked.
As I should like to oblige him, perhaps one of your
readers could inform me of a legitimate source of supply.”

 




 

 

 

20
IV. Hare Coursing.

In this sport the hares are driven one by one through
a long line of beaters into the coursing ﬁeld, where they
are coursed by greyhounds in couples. The chance of
escape at the end of a long ﬁeld is small, and those which
reach the end are not infrequently found dead of a burst

heart.

Mr. Alfred Briscoe, describing the coursing at the
Border Union meeting, writes in the Alamberter Guardian :

“ The ﬁrst greyhound catches hold of the hare in any
position it can, because the second greyhound is close
behind. The second dog gets hold and then the tug—of-
war ensues, with the screaming hare making the living
rope. I do not claim that there are never cases in which
the hare is killed instantaneously, but in the majority of
cases the screaming hare is torn between two greyhounds
and the piteous cries remain long in the ears of any
person with a grain of compassion.”

Hares are preserved for coursing on big estates or may
be brought in from wild districts. \Y/e have been told
by a member of a coursing family that it was not unusual
to “put down ” hares from Scotland before a coursing
match. .

DEFENCE OF HARE COURSING.

This sport was recently upheld by Lord Lonsdale on
the remarkable ground that it was the most humane way
of killing hares. This is similar to the defence of hare-
hunting, (q.v.), and the reply is the same—that hares can
be kept down in a humane manner by walking up and
shooting. The suggestion that the object of coursing is
to keep down hares is of course entirely ludicrous.

The especial brutality of hare-coursing lies in the fact
that as many as ﬁfty hares may be torn to pieces in the
presence of numerous spectators in a single afternoon. It
is a callous exhibition of which the cruelty is undisguised.

. c. _ -..._..T._i .m-.,,,r

 

 

 




 

 

21
V. Rabbit Coursing.

In rabbit—coursing, the rabbits are brought to the
coursing-ground in hampers, and are coursed by whippets
in couples. The chance of escape is practically nil, and
the race ends, as in hare—coursing, with a horrible tug—of—
war between the two dogs.

Rabbit-coursing is still legal providing that the ﬁeld in
which it takes place is not completely enclosed. It is
supposed to be the "working-man’s sport” but little is
heard of it now—a—days- and no reputable working-man or
labour leader supports it. Its principal defence seems to
be in the House of Lords, from noble Lords who fear
that their own sport might next be interfered with, if
rabbit-coursing were stopped.

VI. Otter Hunting.

“I am moved to make a protest against the utter
inhumanity of the proceeding of the hunt yesterday .....
The modm operandz' would appear to have been as follows :
For some seven hours an otter was chased from point to
point of the river. The last stage of the chase was
carried out on the river bank which my garden over—
looks. Then the otter found sanctuary in a burrow. For
more than an hour the creature was trapped there whilst
the sportsmen used every appliance of their equipment to
dislodge their prey. Having failed, they proceeded to
block up with stone the otter’s frail chance of escape . . . . .
Then the hunt proceeded to dig the otter out of its
refuge with spades and hatchets. At last it was dislodged,
grabbed and held, whilst the hounds put an end to the
hunted creature’s tortures.”

Letter from the Rector of Burnsall,
Yorkshire Post, July 20th, I9 3 3.

The otter, [aim vulgarir, is a sensitive and intelligent
mammal, in spite of its aquatic nature: it may be regarded

 

 




 

22

as a kind of water-cat. Naturalists have been known to
keep tame otters, which become very affectionate and
show much intelligence.

Otter hunting is carried on as follows : the hunters are
armed with long iron-shod poles which are used for
prodding the otter out of any refuge it may ﬁnd, and also
for forming a “ stickie,” 21.9. a barrier across the water at
shallow places, so as to drive the otter back into the jaws
of the bounds. \Y/hen reduced to exhaustion the otter
will sometimes remain under water and drown in its own
element; generally however it comes ashore, and then
the kill or “ worry ” begins. This is not a quick kill but
a long and disgusting struggle.

Worst of all is the fact that otter-hunting is carried on
from March to October, so that it is in full swing in April
and May, the height of the breeding season. It is useless for
otter-hunters to excuse this by saying that the breeding
season is irregular. There is some irregularity no doubt,
but naturalists state that most of the cubs are born in spring
or early summer (F Aﬂialo, Mortimer Batten, etc.). If
it were necessary to kill otters at all, the right time to do
so would be the last three months of the year. Owing to
the season the gravid bitch otter is of course liable to be
hunted. It is clearly impossible for the huntsman to
distinguish the sex and condition of the quarry even if he
cares to do so. Mortimer Batten says: “ Bitch otters
have been known to slip their cubs during a hunt,” and
the Hon. Grantley F. Berkeley, writing in the last
century, says in his Recollections, describing an otter—hunt:
“ At her we went for seven hours, and during that time
on a stump overhanging the river she miscarried and
gave birth to two cubs, born only a few days before their
time.” Conditions have not changed since Grantley
Berkeley wrote.

A further and frequent consequence of the hunting of
female otters is the starving to death of the young cubs,
which are left in the bolt when the bitch is killed, unless

 

 

 




 

 

23

they chance to be “ chopped ” by the hounds. Otter-kits
are born blind and remain so for a period of several
weeks. They remain in the care of the mother for a long
period covering several months. Mortimer Batten records
an incident when “a bitch otter tried every trick she
knew to save her own life and that of her kits, keeping
the hounds busy for over an hour, about the same ﬁfty
yards of river. During the hunt I saw a big hound
chewing up something which, by its tail, was unmistakably
an otter kit, and in the end the poor dam, quite
unconscious, ﬂoated to the surface like a wet rag, to be
snapped up by the nearest hounds and killed.”

DEFENCES OF OTTER HUNTING.

(1) THAT OTTERS ARE A PEST TO ANGLERS.

This is sometimes a mere pretext for cruel sport but
there are some anglers who genuinely hate the otter
because they believe that it seriously reduces the number
of ﬁsh. This is a mistake due to ignorance of the otter’s
diet, which consists partly of ﬁsh but includes a great
many frogs and eels, These latter creatures prey on young
ﬁsh, so that their destruction increases the number of ﬁsh,
Further the fish consumed by otters include such ﬁsh as
pike, which devour the more edible kinds. Mortimer
Batten writes: “The best ﬁshing I have ever had was on
otter-infested rivers where the animals could be heard
calling and whistling to one another.” It is sheer
ignorance of the balance of nature that causes ﬁshermen-
to hate the otter.

An otter which gets into a breeding-pond may be a
nuisance, but in that case it can be shot. It is exceedingly
unlikely that otters will ever become sufﬁciently numerous
to cause real inconvenience.

 

 




 

14

(2) THAT IF OTTERS WERE NOT HUNTED THEY
WOULD BE TRAPPED.

The trapping of otters is due to the same foolish belief
that they are a pest. Steel traps should certainly be pro—
hibited both on land and water. Those however who
desire to kill otters can, and sometimes do, shoot them.
In Scotland keepers sit up at night to shoot otters when
they cross the shallow places of the rivers. Otters are to
a certain extent preserved for sport, but if they are to
have no mercy it would be better for them to become
extinct.

As Mr. Arthur Thompson says, in Naz‘zme 13} Nngz‘,
“Animals of less interest. than the otter receive legal
protection. It is time the otter was granted the same
privilege.” We should be thankful to be able to leave
this harmless and beautiful wild creature in peace instead
of seeking out pretexts to torture and destroy it.

VII. Badger Digging.

The badger, 7726/85 faxm, is a bear-like animal, living in
deep earths or setts, in solitary places. In badger-digging
the sportsmen dig into the earth until they are within reach
of a badger, then terriers are put in, who may be badly '
mauled before they drive out the badger. The animal
may at last be dragged out with tongs. When out, he is
worried by the dogs and at last killed with a knife or
other weapon.

A. R. Thompson, in Nature by Nz'g/yz‘, says: “The
so-called sport of badger—baiting, that is placing the
animal in a barrel laid on its side and setting dogs to drag
it forth, is now illegal. It is, however, probably still
practised. Moreover, badger—digging is legal; the
position, broadly, is that provided the cruelty takes
place at the earth there is no limit to it ...... I know
of at least one cub of about ﬁve~months old which had
its hind legs tied together. \Y/henever the terriers

 

 




 

 

 

25

showed signs of getting the worst of the struggle, the
cub’s back legs were jerked from under it to give the
dogs a better chance. Eventually its skull was smashed
in with an axe.”

DEFENCE OF BADGER-DIGGING.

The principal defence of this sport is that badgers do
damage. There is however no ground whatever for the
persecution of this animal. Professor Ritchie in Bird:
and Beauty a: Farm Pam,” says: “It must be apparent
from this summary that if the badger cannot be said to be
the mainstay of British farming, it at least does more
good than harm ..... It ought certainly not to be per-
secuted and destroyed.”

The diet of badgers consists of roots, fruit, wasps’
nests, rats, young rabbits, etc. By destroying wasps’
nests and rats it does good service.

The following deﬁnite accusations have been made
against the badger:

(I) Lamb-killing. This if justiﬁed would be a
very serious accusation, but it is without foundation.
An agriculturalist like Professor Ritchie would hardly
support badgers if they killed lambs.

(2) Taking rabbits from traps and snares : this only
happens if the snares are left too long unvisited.

(3) Taking sitting pheasants and partridges and
their eggs: examples of this are very infrequent.

(4) Inconveniencing fox-hunters by opening up
fox-earths which have been stopped: this is to make one
cruelty an excuse for another.

(5) Trampling down crops and visiting hen-roosts:
examples of this are exceedingly rare.

 

 




 

 

IIb.

 

26

Mr. John Squire, in the Timex, (September Ist, 1952),
related a conversation with a Devon farmer on badger-

digging.

“ Why kill this interesting animal?” he asked.

“ They rob our hen-roosts ” the farmer replied.

“ That is disputed ” rejoined Mr. Squire.

“They old brocks is as bad as foxes ” retorted the
farmer.

“ It’s rather dreadful to think of a Whole family of
badgers being exterminated ” said Mr. Squire.

“No” said the farmer “We’m only gwine to kill
the old uns not the cubs.” .

“ But surely if, they’re so dreadful with the poultry
you ought to kill the cubs too” replied Mr.
Squire: to which the farmer replied:

“ If us killed the cubs us wouldn’t have no more
badger-digging.”

Anyone desiring to kill badgers could do so by shoot-
ing or by one of the gas methods described in Section

The animal is never likely to become common

since it requires solitude, and this becomes year by year
more difﬁcult to secure. It is of the greatest interest to
naturalists as the most ancient of indigenous British
mammals, and should be protected and left in peace.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

27
Appendix._

I. BAGGED FOXES AND “DOCTORED” FOXES.

The custom of . hunting bagged foxes, that is a fox
caught elsewhere and turned out of a sack just before
the hunt, is supposed to have died out,~though cases
of this sort were heard of in Surrey and Oxfordshire
in 1929 and. 1930. It seems however to have been
replaced by the kindred practice of using “ doctored”
foxes—that is, foxes caught and artiﬁcially scented with
aniseed or turpentine and turned down some hours before
the hunt. This is merely a less straight—forward way of
hunting bagged foxes. The fox is a captive one but
the ﬁeld do not actually see it turned out of the bag.
The practice is not considered “ correct” and was
denounced in the Field last year. The 777226: hunting
correspondent however considered the hunting of
doctored foxes and the substitution of the drag to be
equally deplorable.

2. HUMANE DESTRUCTION OF Foxes.

Raiding foxes may be caught in wire-cage traps.
Suitable traps (used also for catching weasels, stoats,
etc.) may be obtained from S. Young & Sons, (Misterton)
Ltd., Misterton, Somerset. Size 48in. x 12in. x 15in.,
425. 6d.

The destruction of foxes in their earths by “ Cyanogas”
may be carried out without special apparatus if care is
used. In Australia rabbits are often destroyed by this
method, a few ounces of calcium cyanide being placed
in the hole, which is then blocked with a damp cloth.
The operator must be careful not to breathe the gas
and in damp weather a gas mask must be worn. The
damp earth or damp air acting on the calcium cyanide
produces HCN. The method is recommended for the

 




 

 

28

humane destruction of rabbits and is equally suitable
for foxes even in wild districts. Its efﬁciency is such
that its use would obviate the very horrible cruelty of
all kinds that goes on in the Lake district and parts of
Scotland where foxes are a real pest, and Where they
are hunted, shot, poisoned, and ruthlessly trapped.
Owing to the nature of the country they cannot be
exterminated but they could be kept down, Without
cruelty, by this method.

 




NOTES TO HANDBOOK.

NEw FOREST DEER (p. 7).

The report of the Forestry Commissioners for 19 34,
states that when it is necessary to reduce the numbers of
deer in various districts by shooting, the danger of
allowing occasional wounded deer to escape has been
guarded against by the employment as far as possible in
the Midlands and South of England, of “ New Forest
keepers who have exceptional skill in killing deer.” A
further enquiry from the Secretary of the League for
Prohibition of Cruel Sports elicited the fact that the
shooting of the deer in the New Forest involved no
danger to the public, which has complete access to the
open forest. There is therefore no excuse whatever for
the hunting of these deer, since humane means of keeping
them down are already provided.

DESTRUCTION OF FOXEs BY CYANO-GAS (p. 16).

An outﬁt suitable for this purpose may be obtained
from Geo. Monro Ltd., \Waltham Cross, Herts.

The University of London Animal Welfare Society,
recommending this method for the destruction of rabbits,
says : “ That the method is completely humane is shown
by the suddenness with which animals are found to die,
by post-mortem examination of the bodies and by the
experience of human beings who have been accidently
gassed in the course of research work.”

 




 




