 

 

(Block lent by courtesy of the League for the Prohibition of Cruel Sports).

 

OCTOBER, 1 935.

 

HUMANE
LIFE

QUARTERLY

 




 

CONTENTS.

A Walk in the Country
A Sensible Dog

Gradualism

Nature—Red in Tooth and Claw

Not Cricket
Strong on at Humane Diet...

Notes

49
54
55
58
61
63
64

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

HUMANE LIIFE

OCTOBER, 1935.

 

A Walk in the Country.

MOST of us know how enjoyable a walk in the country may
be. How eager the workers in the towns are to go off

on every available holiday to the freedom. freshness and
prettiness of the country-side. We have to remember also the
children in the slums who never get the opportunity and are
satisﬁed with their playing grounds in gloomy streets and alleys
because they know of nothing more pleasant. The unhappy
seamstress of Tom Hood’s poem has her counterpart still. She
who sadly sighed :

“ Oh I but to breathe the breath
Of the cowslip and primrose sweet,

With the sky above my head
And the grass beneath my feet I ”

There are many country walks still available, but not nearly
so many as elderly people remember in the far back days of their

youth. To-day a walking tour amid some of our ﬁnest country
scenery must be limited to the dusty roads bounded by high
hedges. One may lean on a ﬁve-barred gate and see great

 

 




 

 

 

 

50 HUMANE LIFE

stretches of pasture land with a warning notice close by of
“ T respassers beware.” For miles nearly all the inhabitants of
these country lands are oxen and sheep. Men, women and

children are rarely seen except when they come occasionally to
tend the cattle. That arrangement is rendered necessary by the

demands of the meat-eaters.

Were those ﬁelds devoted to the raising of cereals, fruit and
vegetables, the people who have been obliged to leave in large
numbers to seek their living in the towns would be scattered over
these lands in pleasant homesteads, leading healthy lives in the
open air and sunshine and occupied in raising the crops. Now
they live crowded together in the poorer parts of cities and
occupied in less healthy work. If not engaged in, at least they
have to live in the midst of cattle markets, slaughter houses and
butchers’ shops. A large demand for vegetarian diet would tend
to an automatic solution of the slum problem.

It is, generally, well to keep one’s thoughts balanced by
considering both sides of a subject. When, during the war, news
came of some success of the British arms, there were folks who
sadly said, “ Yes I but what is behind it all P” They realized that
much misery was involved ; not only the suffering on the battle-

ﬁeld but the despair of wives, mothers and children, the life-long.

helplessness of the wounded, the destruction of resources and
consequent unemployment of hundreds of thousands of able
workers.

In the same way when viewing the beauties of Nature we
have to recognize that there is a dark side. More of the land is
devoted to pasture for feeding oxen and sheep than is utilized in
raising crops. The song of the lark and other birds, the handsome
deer, the rabbits at play, the herds of cattle, the ﬂocks of sheep
happily brOwsing on the grass and enjoying the sunshine, make

 




, _. __r:¥~_‘r:__- .;.. _- ,Ami—r—-~ :_ »___w~r_.~ _7 .7;- - _- r~—7 7;. .. __‘- _.. m =7. .- - u u..., I" ~_,,;;- ~. A - . A; v_; ~— M." . « «7-73- W. ___, :77 .... .

HUMANE LIFE 51

the pleasing side which would be still more pleasing if the pasture

grounds were converted to cornﬁelds. Then the interest would

be in seeing the many homesteads and the many farm labourers,

agriculturalists, market gardeners and their families working
~ happily and healthily in the open air.

The change from the older, more natural system had begun
before the time of Goldsmith, who deplored it in his well-known
poem “ The Deserted Village.” He wrote that :

 

“ A bold peasantry, their country’s pride,
When once destroyed, can never be supplied.”

This he said when describing the exodus, even of that day, of the
villagers to go and live in the towns. It became evident during
the late war that more than was suspected of the men of
serviceable age were not of good enough physique to become
soldiers. So much so that the opinion was expressed that we are
becoming a C3 nation. We need not, however, adopt Goldsmith’s
opinion in full, for by living as a nation in a normal way on our
natural diet, the demand for cereals and fruit and vegetables will
cause an automatic demand for labour on the land and'a return of
our bold peasantry to their old homes and occupations.

Most of those who enjoy the pastoral prettiness forget that
hundreds of the larks may soon be killed to make one dinner dish
of their tiny tongues and that the sheep and lambs will, in a few
days, be cruelly driven through the streets, torn to pieces in the
slaughter houses and swallowed by the people in the towns. Not
only that, but, as lately decreed by a Committee of the House of

i Commons, they are to be killed in the old cruel way instead of by
means of the humane killer.

l There is much more “ behind it all.” There comes across the
\ View occasionally a hunting party, the men in bright colours, the
ladies in dainty dress, the children expecting to be ‘blooded,’ the

 




 

 

52 HUMANE LIFE

pack of hounds—all after one poor fox or deer. And there are
many hidden snares in which hares and rabbits often struggle
with torn limbs all night.

And all this misery of mankind as well as of the hunted and
butchered animals is inﬂicted in spite of the fact that many great
authorities have stated that the use of the land for pasture is very
wasteful. That was brought home to us in the war when our
usual food supplies from abroad were limited. There was a
hurried attempt to get pasture lands converted to agricultural, as it
was known that the nutritive value, in quantity and quality, of the
foods produced on the latter would be much greater.

Dr. W. B. Richardson, a prominent authority, said that the
oftener we go to the vegetable world for our food, the oftener we
go to the ﬁrst and cheapest source of supply—also that the
vegetable world is incomparable in its efﬁciency for supply of
man’s food; and that his food is most economically and safely

got from it.

General Booth of the Salvation Army estimated that
agricultural produce is four times as economical as that raised on
pasture ; and is more healthy—an opinion supported by some of
the best economists. For every reason, humane and selﬁsh as
well, it is an urgent need that this mis-use of the land be altered.

Under present conditions a walk in the country is marred,
too, by the state of the villages and of the villagers. The herds of
driven cattle, the unsavoury farms, roads and pig-stys, the
prolonged screaming of pigs being killed, spoil the pleasure of the
visitor.

The life led by the villagers is monotonous and likely to
prevent mental development. Though not now so much as in the
past, some are still slaves of custom and easily accept the

 

 

 




HUMANE LIFE 53

admonition of the squire and other local magnates that they must
be satisﬁed with the position in which Providence has been
pleased to place them.

An infusion of town life such as would follow on the arrival
of men returning to settle on the land, healthier work and a more
cheerful atmosphere, would give the dull countrymen a salutary
awakening, a new social life, some pleasant evenings instead of

 

those now spent in loaﬁng and the public house.

OEZ—DOEKWEDoCF—{o

i In May, 1933, Mr. Edmund B. D’Auvergne, in an article on
I the “ Enlargement of Ethics,” traced the stages of man’s advance
in moral and emotional progress from pure selﬁshness to a wide
sympathy for others, including kindness to animals. He says :—

HThe progress of civilization is the widening of sympathy. . . .
All human beings are included now within the range of our duty
and the moral law. Animals suffer equally with men. To feel
sympathy only with our own kind is to be so many degrees less

 

removed from the cave man. The man whose compa'Ssion is
stirred by the sufferings of animals has advanced so much further
along the path which mankind has been pursuing from the jungle
upwards.

Kindness to animals is not then merely an amiable trait. It
is not hyper-sensibility. It is the inevitable stage further.”

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

54 HU‘MANE LIFE

A Sensible Dog.

CASES have already been given of intelligence and reasoning

powers in animals. As it is often asserted that none except

man can reason, it is as well to record, now and then, cases

which show clearly that dogs, horses and, probably, all animals
have reasoning powers and are constantly exercising them.

One day on returning from the railway station at Torquay
with my spaniel, the dog had gone ahead a good stone’s throw
and had arrived at a point where there Was, on the left, a ﬂight of
steps leading to a higher road by which I sometimes went on my
way home. Sometimes I did not choose that way but went
straight on past the steps. The dog, wishing to know which way
I was going, stopped, looked back at me and placed a paw on the
lowest of the ﬂight of steps—clearly asking me “ Am I to go up
the steps or straight on P” I made .a sign with my left hand,
indicating “ Up the steps.” No word was spoken, but the dog
understood and immediately bounded up, knowing that I intended

to follow.

That dog reasoned. He judged it better not to go on till he
knew which way I intended to go; he then decided to ask me
and he arranged to indicate clearly to me what he wanted to
know. He could not have been prompted merely by instinct. He
acted reasonably through a series of doubts ; and his conclusions
were arrived at in the same way as human beings use the syllogism.

[A.C.N.]

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

HUMANE LIFE 55

Gradualism.

L. STRATFORD HOUGHTON.

IF the reader is one of that large body of people who feel
distress at seeing animals rounded up and driven through the
street to the slaughter houses, but is under the impression
that that sort of thing is inevitable, and thinks that complete
vegetarianism would be too big a sacrifice, I would say “ Why not
become a vegetarian gradually ?”

When I say Hgradually” I don’t mean have your dinner of
meat and vegetables just the same, but eat less meat; or go
without meat but eat ﬁsh and fowl. That sort of thing is merely
making a compromise with one’s conscience, and is not likely, I
fear, to ever leagl to complete vegetarianism.

What I have in mind is this; that it is not in the going
without that difﬁculty arises. The difﬁculty and sacriﬁce arises in
the thought that, once you have decided to be a vegetarian, you
will, if you are to be true to your determination, NEVER AGAIN be
able to have any of those particular dainties which have always
appealed to you so much, and that IS a sacriﬁce.

If we lose a loved one by death it is a great grief to us, and
the fact that we may, later on, gain new loved ones doesn’t
compensate us for the loss. Yet we can go abroad and leave a
loved one, with pleasurable anticipations which may quite
compensate for our feelings of distress. Many a young man goes
abroad very happily, leaving his old mother behind, whereas if his

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

56 HUMANE LIFE

mother had died it would have been a great grief to him. Having
gone abroad he may never see his mother again, but the going
abroad hasn’t put him in the position of KNOWING HE NEVER
AGAIN CAN see his mother. He probably thinks he is sure to, and
doesn’t dwell on the matter much.

It is the same with giving up anything which we value. If
vegetarianism could come upon us without our knowing it was
going to, it would be no sacriﬁce to most of us. If, for instance,
we happened to go and live with a vegetarian family, with perfect
freedom to live elsewhere next day or next week if we wished,
and that vegetarian family gave us attractive vegetarian meals,
most of us would drift into vegetarianism and enjoy the drift. It
is the determination to deny ourselves for ever something which
we enjoy and have been in the habit of thinking we cannot live
well without, which hurts so much.

I would suggest, therefore, that you make a bargain with
yourself that you will be a vegetarian one day each week. Decide
that you will become a full ﬂedged vegetarian, or that you will go
back to full meat eating, according to how you feel later on, so
that you shall be free from compulsion—for, after all, self
compulsion is almost as great a strain as compulsion from others.

Be a complete vegetarian that one day each week, and study
vegetarian recipe books so as to prepare thoroughly enjoyable
meals. Never mind if that day’s meals are more expensiVe than
the other days' meals while you are trying the experiment, as you
want to give yourself a really good idea of how enjoyable
vegetarianism can be. Study vegetarian books for guidance as to
how to have an enjoyable breakfast without bacon or other ﬂesh
products ; and do so with regard to all other meals.

Above all, don’t let vegetarianism mean merely going without.
That is a mistake most of us make during the transition stage, with

 

 




HUMANE LIFE I 57

the result that many go back to their meat eating habits. It is so
impossible to eat everything, that most meat eaters “go without ”
nice foods of a variety of kinds quite as much as a vegetarian
does. But as they do so with no special intention they don’t
realise what a lot of nice things they are going without.

Live in accordance with the guidance given in vegetarian
books and you will ﬁnd that your meals are much more enjoyable
than they were before, and that you are not making any sacriﬁce
but just the reverse. You will then be only too pleased to have a
second vegetarian day per week, and a third, and so on, until the
stereotyped meat and vegetable or egg and bacon meals will
become so unattractive to you that you will gladly change all the
days to vegetarian days.

Most of us, after we have become vegetarians, start studying
vegetarianism so as to try and make it healthy and pleasurable,
and we succeed in doing this. But unfortunately we begin by
making it a sacriﬁce, and do not make it a pleasure until we have
been hugging our wounds for some time. It might not be so
noble, but it would be much more effective from the point of View
of hastening universal vegetarianism, if we begin the other way
round, by studying healthful and pleasurable vegetarianism ﬁrst
and becoming vegetarians after we had studied how. It is, in
this as in most things in life, a mistake to start doing a thing
before learning How to do it.

Gradual evolution towards vegetarianism on the part of each
individual seems to be the hope of the future.

633

 




 

 

 

 

 

5'8 HUMANE LIFE

Nature———Red in Tooth and Claw.

~HE h untsman and sportsman claim justiﬁcation on the ground

T that Nature is “ red in tooth and claw.” The humane man

replies that, even if that be true, it is no reason why man

may be cruel. Such a justiﬁcation might be usedas an excuse for

any excess. It is put forward by men who want something to

condone their violence—a sort of “ any stick good enough to beat
a dog with.”

On the surface there are some grounds for the belief that
Nature is exceptionally cruel. The lion, tiger, leopard and jackal,
snakes, alligators, birds and ﬁsh—-—all kill on a large scale. An ant-
eater, for instance, swallows hundreds of insects at one meal;
and the larger carnivora daily prey on animals which Nature has
provided partly as food for them.

It must be admitted that Nature is red in tooth and claw;
but in some cases there is full proof and, in others, it is reasonable
to believe that there is little or no pain inflicted. The carnivora
kill their prey swiftly and, probably in most cases, there is
hypnotism ; so that any pain or terror suffered by the prey is far
less than man causes.

The tiger approaches a bull stealthily and from behind. He
springs before the bull is aware of his presence and kills with a
sudden double blow, one on the bull’s neck and one over the eye.
If, however, the bull is aware of the presence of the tiger, he faces
him and the tiger dares not attack.

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

HUMANE LIFE 59

As recorded by Dr. Livingstone, the same was the case when
a herd of lions were about to attack a herd of bulls. They did
not do so because the bulls became aware of their presence. The
lions knew they would get the worst of any direct encounter.

The wholesale slaughter by carnivora is best seen in the
Tropics. One who has lived many years in the jungles knows
that the thousands of insects snapped up by birds, bats and other
winged carnivora are unaware of their danger and of their death.
A mongoose chasing a rat takes little trouble to run quickly after it
as it knows that its own hypnotic power will cause the rat to stop
and wait for him. This the rat does and stands quite still while
the mongoose comes up leisurely and seizes it by the back. There
is no struggle, no sign of life. A dog will sometimes wait patiently
till a cornered rat runs rapidly from a distance direct into his
mouth. Dr. Livingstone, when in the power of a lion, though
wounded and able to see the efforts of his friends to rescue him,
felt only a pleasant delirium ; he was apathetic and without pain.

There is, therefore, little or no suffering in most cases : and,
in those cases where we see what appears to us to be much
suffering, there may be more hypnotism and simple reﬂex action
than, in the present state of our knowledge, we can recognize.
We may note it in our own mishaps when, for instance, knocked
down and rendered senseless. We have afterwards no recollection
of what happened immediately previous to the accident.

This beneﬁcent arrangement of Nature enables the wild
carnivora to secure their food with a minimum of suffering of their
prey. How far do we adapt ourselves to this kindly provision for
prevention of suffering. Here and there, a little ; but mostly not
at all. There is the acknowledgment that we ought to; but tardy

and half-hearted efforts such as the Humane Slaughter Bill and '-

the limitation by inspection of vivisection without anaesthetics are

 




 

60 HUMANE LIFE

neutralised by easy evasions. In the former, sheep and lambs are
not included; and in the latter the inspectors are too few and

may be themselves vivisectors.

Man has not the claws nor the pointed, jagged teeth of the
carniwra. He has teeth specially arranged for dealing with fruit
and'corn; and hands appropriate for gathering those foods.
Nature had no intention of making him carnivorous ; but he tries
to place himself in the same class with the jackal, snake and
vulture. And, as a consequence, he suffers heavily in the long run.

oEJOC-Eo OBOE—31°

The People’s Dispensary for Sick Animals of the Poor treats
yearly nearly three-quarters of a million animals.

Examples :—

A donkey that would not eat was found to have raw
sores on its gums and a bone exposed through the juggling of
the bit by a rough driver.

A pony very lame and being worked with a shoe nailed
over a festering corn.

A statement of the activities of this very useful institution will
be given in a later issue of this magazine. The Head Ofﬁce is at
14, Clifford Street, New Bond Street, London W1.

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

HUMANE LIFE 61

Not Cricket.

IN the world of Sport one sometimes hears a man protesting
against something unfair or not according to the best

traditions of gentlemanly conduct. He is one of the more
honourable who have sympathy with the under dog, who object to
taking an unfair advantage and especially to hitting a man when
he is down. He says that it is ‘not cricket.’

Even a hardened tyrant may feel that that position is the
right one, and may try to arrogate to himself, at least, an
appearance of fairness. The huntng squire and parson are
Nature’s noblemen in their own estimation.

Yet they stultify that position by taking out a pack of hounds
to chase to exhaustion one fox or deer or otter ; and set 50 to 1.
Where then is their boasted fair play P

Men and women who follow the hounds on horseback and
devote large sums to the funds of the “ Hunt” are usually peOple
of wealth. They are patrons of sport in the cricket ﬁeld, football,
boxing, etc., and insist on fair play. When they turn to pseudo-
sport they seem to go crazy with regard to their principles.
British fair play does not count when the quarry is too weak to
hit back. Most of the hunters are very respectable. May-be they
go to Church on Sunday and join in that expressive hymn :

“ As pants the hart for cooling streams
When heated in the chase,
So longs my soul, 0 God, for Thee,
And Thy refreshing Grace.”

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

62 HUMANE LIFE

Their own longings for refreshing Grace are not hampered by
a pack of dogs thirsting for their blood.

Compare their conduct with the altruism and gallantry of

some of the animals they treat so cruelly.

Take the case of the stag that stands in the line of ﬁre to
protect the hind from the sportsman, or the dog that watches over
his master’s interests and risks his life for him, and the one that,
having been cured at a hospital, brought another injured dog to

be treated.

°BOCEK° °E>0a°

A lady writes :—-“ I have often pondered on the intelligence
shown by animals and I have read that in ancient Egypt many
animals were worshipped because they were considered superior to
mankind. It was believed that they were created ﬁrst and
therefore were better. The reasoning seems faulty ; but it was the

belief of a great nation.”
% % %

The apple has restored and built up wasted life tissues in a
marvellous manner.-—E. J. Baillie “ Fruit Culture.”

 

 

 

 




 

 

HUMANE LIFE 63

Strong on a Humane Diet.

HE most powerful animals are the OX, horse, elephant,
rhinoceros, gorilla and others living wholly on vegetarian
food. They are the most respectable too. The tiger,

jackal, snake and other carnivora are dreaded and avoided. ' True
there are pleasanter ﬂesh eaters such as the cat and the dog in
their civilized state : but even with them a vegetarian diet seems
to improve their natures in some cases. The St. Bernard dogs,
for instance, are not brought up on ﬂesh food because, as the
monks at the monastery told the present writer, they become
“ mechant” on ﬂesh diet and are not so reliable as guides and
attendants in the mountains as they are when fed 011 oatmeal and
other vegetarian foods.

Of many remarkable instances of great strength obtained
from vegetarian food there is the case of the gorilla. The
traveller, P. B. Du Chaillu, in his book “ Equatorial Africa,” says
that the strength of the animal is enormous, that with its jaws it
can dent a musket barrel and with its arms break trees four to six
inches in diameter. He saw one break in his hands, with no
apparent effort, the gun accidently dropped by one of his pursuers.
He says : HThe gorilla, though it has such immense canines and
though its vast strength doubtless fits it to capture and kill almost
every animal that frequents the forest, is a strict vegetarian. I
examined the stomachs of all which I was lucky enough to kill
and never found traces there of aught but berries, pine-apple

leaves and other vegetable matter.” He also mentions wild sugar

cane, pith of trees and nuts.

 

 

 




 

 

 

64 HUMANE LIFE

Notes.

This being the last of the four quarterly issues for 1935,
readers will help the Editor by sending early information of their
wish for copies in 1936. The issue for 1st January, 1936, will
appear about Christmas next.

3% 9K 3K 1:

Bound sets of the four quarterly issues of 1935—price 2/-.
3K 3K 3K

A correspondence page will be begun in the January number,

1936.
7 9K 3K 3K

Suggestions for a Symposium will be acceptable.
3% 3K 3%

Now is the time when hunting of deer and other animals is in
full course. Though the evidence is clear all round us that health
is well secured by the normal methods of holiday making—the
visits to country and sea-side resorts, bathing, games, hiking,
camping, motoring and char-a-banc excursions, and the many
other enjoyable ways of proﬁting by sunshine and fresh air
without resort to the inﬂiction of pain and death—yet the spurious
sporting elite (I) ﬁnd it necessary for their health and manliness to
spendlarge sums of money (£2,000,000 a year on hunting alone)
on the torture and prolonged killing of some of the best of our
fellow creatures.

Their natures are such as require wild excitement, demonstra-
tion of their superiority and power over the weak and defenceless,
and ostentatious dissipation of wealth which would be very useful
if applied to alleviate the sufferings of the sick and our two
million unemployed.

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

The following periodical publications
are recommended 2——

“ Cruel Sports,”

“ The Vegetarian Messenger,”

“ The Vegetarian News,”

“ The Abolitionist,”

“The Herald of the New World,”
“ The Animals’ Friend,”

“The Animals’ Champion,”

“ Progress To-Day.”

 

 

 

 

 

 

HUMANE LIFE

Single copy .\ by post

Four (quarterly) copies per year 2/-

 

Aj>1>ly to THE EDITOR,
“ST. MALo,” CASSEL AVENUE,
BOURNEMOUTH, WEST.

 

Printed by H. Welsford, North Devon Printing Works, Ilfracombe.

 

 




 




