COMMENTS

ON THE

DEBATE IN THE HOUSE OF COMMONS,
APRIL 4, 1883,

MR. REID’S BILL

FOR THE

TOTAL PROHIBITION OF
, VIVISEGTION,

BY

FRANCES POWER COBBE,

HON. SEC.

VICTORIA STREET SOCIETY FOR THE PROTECTION OF. ANIMALS FROM
VIVISECTION, UNITED WITH THE INTERNATIONAL ASSOCIATION
FOR THE TOTAL SUPPRESSION OF VIVISECTION.

OFFICES, 1, VJ CTORIA STREET, 8. W.

 




 

 




 

COMMENTS

ON THE

DEBATE ON MR. REID’S BILL,
APRIL 4, 1883.

 

The ﬁrst observation which must occur to every well in-
formed reader of this discussion, after the recognition of the
sound judgment and high feeling of the advocates of the
measure, is the extraordinary recklessness wherewith its op-
ponents permitted themselves to make easily checked mis-
statements concerning plain matters of fact. Either utterly
ignorant of the subject on which they presumed to correct Mr.
Reid and Mr. Russell, or else relying on the ignorance of
the House and 011 their successful tactics in leaving no time
for response and exposure, these gentlemen contrived in the
three hours which they monopolised out of the four and a half
of the debate, to make just twenty-eight assertions, every one of
which we shall presently shew to be erroneous and misleading.

1. Mr. Cartwright, early in his speech, referred, as
evidence of the spontaneous humanity of physiologists, to the
Resolutions in favour of the use of anaesthetics in vivisection,
passed by the British Association (which, with characterlstic
inaccuracy, he styled the British Medical Association) in 1871.

The practical value of that humanity so publicly exhibited
—0n paper—may be estimated by the fact that within four years
the cruelty of vivisection had risen so far, and the notorious
Handbook by the most eminent English physiologists had
created so much scandal, that Dr. Lyon Playfair himself, on
the 12th May, 187 5 , introduced a Bill whereby the provisions
of the paper resolutions might have had a chance of realiza-
tion; a similar Bill being simultaneously introduced by Lord

 

 




 

 

2

Henniker into the House of Lords. Had the British Associa-
tion Resolutions of 1871 been anything better than a delusive
bnutum fulmen, no such Bills, no subsequent Royal Commis-
sion no eventual legislation, would ever have been heard of.

2. Mr. Cartwright next- spoke of the “eminent gentle-
man ” who deposed before the Royal Commission that he
“ knew of no case of wanton cruelty in vivisection by an English
experimenter. ”
This very “eminent gentleman,”——Mr. Colam,—-—must be
flattered at the lofty importance given to himself and his
words by the advocates of vivisection ; but, as he himself
explained, by “wanton cruelty” he means “ suffering caused
without any object except to gratify a cruel mind,” such
cruelty having no scientiﬁc purpose, the absence of it in Eng-
lish experimentation in no way affects the arguments of those
who attack cruelty committed for scientiﬁc purposes. It may
be added that Mr. Colam furnished the Royal Commission with
800 foolscap pages of records of experiments, some of which
he aﬂirmed (1539) were instances of “ protracted agony.”

3. Mr. Cartwright then twitted Mr. Reid for not alluding
to the prosecution of Professor Ferrier. He said that that
prosecution
“ lamentably broke down. The charge brought against Dr. Ferrier
was that he operated without a licence and infringed the law by doing
those things to which the hon. and learned Member referred, but the
charge was not supported by one tittle of evidence.”

The “ tittle of evidence ” on which the charge of the
Victoria Street Society against Professor Ferrier was sup-
ported was simply the direct and repeated statements of
the two leading medical papers in London—the Lancet and the
British Medical Joannal—viz., that Dr. Ferrier had exhibited
in King’s College, and in the presence of one hundred mem-
bers of the Medical Congress, certain monkeys on which he
had performed his well-known experiments. 'As the Home

 




 

3

Ofﬁce replied to the Society’s inquiries that Professor Perrier
had no licence authorizing him to perform those experiments,
the legal advisers of the Victoria Street Society naturally
thought that they had a clear case of infraction of the law.
But what was the “break down ” of the case wherein Mr.
Cartwright triumphed, and 011 whom did it throw discredit?
Both the medical papers, as we have said, attributed the
experiments in question to Professor Ferrier. They stated
that “the animals were monkeys 011 which Professor Ferrier
had operated some months previously,” and which “ Pro-
fessor Ferrier .was willing to exhibit ; ” that they were
“exhibited by Professor Ferrier.” These statements had
remained for four months without any modiﬁcation or cor-
rection. Yet when the prosecution took place the Editor of
the British Mdtcal Journal brought his reporter, Dr. Roy,
into Court to swear point-blank that he had made a mistake
in attributing the experiments to Professor Ferrier, who had
nothing to do with the experiments; and that from ﬁrst to last
they had been to his knowledge the work of somebody else,
to wit, Professor Yeo. The reporter of the Lancet was not
in Court; but when the prosecution proposed an adjournment
for his examination, Professor Ferrier’s Counsel stated, in the
presence of the Editor of the Lancet, that he had communi-
cated with that reporter, and that he was prepared to swear
the same as Dr. Roy.

Now, assuming, as we are bound to do, that this was not
perjury 011 the part of the medical jou111als’ staff and of Pro—
fessor Michael Foster, who swore likewise that the experi-
ments were performed by Professor Yeo, there are only two
hypotheses open——

Eithe1, ﬁe st, Dr Roy, 111 his draft 1eport of the experiments
he had just witnessed, attributed them rightly to “ Professor
Yeo,” and then the Editor, for some occult reason, substi-
tuted, throughout, the name of “ Ferrier ” for “ Yeo.”

Or, second, Dr. Roy wrote “ Ferrier,” by mistake, all

 




 

4

through a long report, when he meant “Yeo ” 3 and (wonder-
ful to relate!) Professor Gamgee, in reporting for the Lancet,
underwent precisely the same very remarkable hallucination.

We should have imagined—our legal advisers imagined--
that the harmonious elaborate reports of experiments by the
two great organs of the medical profession, afforded some-
thing more than a “tittle of evidence” on the matter; but
the upshot certainly justiﬁed Mr. Cartwright’s denial that
there was a “ tittle of evidence ” against Professor Ferrier.
Only it may be questioned whether the “ break down ” of a
case, under such circumstances, ought to be felt most
“lamentable ” by the prosecutors, who believed in the sub-
stantial veracity of the medical organs; or by the defendants,
who escaped by a process more nearly resembling thimble-
rigging than is commonly witnessed in English courts of
justice. “Who do you think, gentlemen, we have got under
this cup?” “ Why, Professor F errier, to be sure! We saw
him put there by the Lancet and the Britt's/z Medical
Journal.” “I think you are mistaken, gentlemen,” says
the Prestidigitateur, as he raises the cup; and 10! there, in
sooth, is Professor Yeo!

4. The most important of Mr. Cartwright’s distinct mis-
statements is that concerning the Cat and Dog Clause in the
Vivisection Act. According to the verbatim report, taken
for the Zoophilz'st, Mr. Cartwright said— '

“ N 0 cat, dog, horse, ass, or mule can be operated upon without a

speciﬁc certiﬁcate for the purpose, and then only on the approval of
the Home Secretary.”

According to the T imes report, he said to the same purpose:

“It was further provided that no cat, dog, horse, mule, or ass,
could be operated upon.”

I cannot but wonder whether any statement as distinctly
false as this, respecting an existing law under immediate
debate, was ever imposed upon Parliament. When we re-

 




 

 

5

ﬂect that Sir William Harcourt sat close by Mr. Cartwright
during this speech, and witnessed this misleading of the House,
and yet neither then, nor when he himself rdse to speak on the
same side, attempted to correct it—our conﬁdence in the
candour of the administrator of the law, or else in his ac-
quaintance with the law which he administers, must, one or
other, he rudely shaken.

Here is what the Act really says, Clause 5:

“Notwithstanding anything in this Act contained, an experiment
calculated to give pain shall not be performed without anaesthetics on a
dog or cat, except on such certiﬁcate being given as in this Act men-
tioned . . . . and an experiment calculated to give pain shall not be
performed on any horse, ass, or mule except on such certiﬁcate being
given.”

The two words marked in italics were inserted into the
original Bill (which had placed all the ﬁve animals under like
special protection) under the pressure of the 2,000 doctors
who memorialised Sir Richard Cross on the 10th July, 1876.
So hastily was this done that the margin still bears the origi-
nal note “ Special restrictions on painful experiments on dogs,
cats, &c.”——although, by means of this insidious interpolation,
all special restrictions on experiments on dogs and cats were
removed, while they were still left on experiments on horses,
asses, and mules. As no vertebrate animal can, under the
Act, he vivisected at all without the use (real or pretended) of
anaesthetics, unless under special certiﬁcate for such purpose,
dogs and cats are left by this clause, as it now stands, precisely
in the same position as snakes, rats, and toads. .The British
Medical Journal of August 12th, 1876, triumphed in the
success of the memorialists in leaving the most sensitive,
affectionate, and intelligent of animals in the same unpro-
tected state as that of the poor vermin of our cellars and
ponds. It remarked, p. 211, “Then as to the Cat and Dog
Clause, all that is objectionable is removed by the introduction
of the words ‘without anaesthetics,’ which, in fact, relegates
cats and dogs to the same place as other animals.”

 




 

 

6

It is a ground for just indignation that seven years after
this transaction an advocate of vivisection should rise in Par—
liament and assure the House that “ No cat or dog can
be operated upon without a special certiﬁcate,” while the
administrator of the Act sat by complacently and allowed the
House to accept the statement as true. The Times, next day,
reproduced this false statement of Mr. Cartwright, on the
faith, no doubt, of his authority and that of Sir William
Harcourt, and thus sent it to the four winds to deceive the
friends of tortured animals throughout the world.

The importance of this matter cannot be overrated, for dogs
are at once, as M. Richet lately confessed in the Revue des
Deuw Mondes, the favourite victims of physiologists ( from
their size, habits, and cheapness), and at the same time the
very animals which, from their sensitiveness, intelligence, and
attachment to mankind, we feel it to be most cruel and
treacherous to torture. The whole race of these loving crea-
tures, and of the almost equally affectionate and quite equally
sensitive cats, were made over by this insidious interpolation
of two words into Lord Carnarvon’s Bill, to the “ uncove-
nanted mercies” of every licensee who would profess to use
an aneesthetic(even combined with curare) in his operations.
To the judgment of the majority of anti-vivisectors more than
half the value of Lord Carnarvon’s Bill was lost by this
wretched Concession to the clamour of the 2,000 doctors cry-
ing after the poor dogs, “Give them up for Vivisection!
They are carnivorous creatures, specially valuable for the pur-
poses of research! ” Yet this whole transaction was ignored
or denied by the Parliamentary advocate of vivisection, and
the Home Secretary allowed him to deny it, and uttered no
word to remove the false impression so given to the House!

5. Mr. Cartwright asserts that the—

“ settlement of 1876, has been onally acquiesced in by the medical
profession. ” '

€99

 




 

 

7

I should hardly call it a “loyal acquiescence” in a mea-
sure of restriction to proclaim on the housetops that no re-
striction ought to exist; but this is what the medical profes-
sion did by an unanimous vote at its great International Con-
gress of 1881. After asserting that experiments on animals
were indispensable to all future progress, it added, “ It is not
desirable to restrict competent persons in the performance of such
experiments.”

6. Mr. Cartwright said that he?—

“had been at the trouble to put down the number of licences, and
that he found that the highest number that were ever granted in any
one year was 32—in the year 1879 to 1880.”

There were, as it happens, 36 licences registered in that
year according to the Returns for England and Scotland,
beside 8 for Ireland. But this was not the year in which
the largest number of licences were in force. In the Report
of 1879 the Inspector says, p. 2, “The total number of
licences in force during any part of the year 1878 was 45.”

7. Mr. Cartwright said,

“In the case of those animals to experiment upon which a speciﬁc
licence is necessary” (he meant a certiﬁcate), “ the number of licences
issued was, in the ﬁrst year, none; the second, 4; the third, 6; the
fourth and ﬁfth none ; the last year only 1. ”

Having begun by declaring erroneously that dogs and cats
could not be vivisected without a special certiﬁcate, he pro-
ceeded to count the numbers of special certiﬁcates, and left
his hearers to suppose that no dogs and cats were vivisected
except with such certlﬁcates. But, as I have above shown,
that dogs and cats may be vivisected without a certiﬁcate
(and, of course, no certiﬁcate is ever asked for or given for
Vivisecting them), it follows that these certiﬁcates, though
delusively registered in the column“ Permitting Experiments

 




 

 

8

0n Cats, Dogs, Horses, Mules and Asses,” must one and all
have been given for those (always rare) experiments of physio-
logists performed on the more expensive animals—horses,
mules, and asses.

That dogs have been actually vivisected in large numbers
by simple licencees (without special certiﬁcates) under the
Act is a fact which was brought to light by a recent corre-
spondence between the President of the Victoria Street Society
and the Home Secretary, whose attention was drawn to the
fact that Dr. Roy had published in Professor Foster’s Journal
of Physiology records of his numerous experiments on dogs in
Cambridge in 1881, and that no record ’of a special certiﬁcate
for such purpose appeared in the Returns of 1882. The
answer of the Home Ofﬁce was to the effect that Dr. Boy was
perfectly within the law in what he had done. He had per-
formed experiments on dogs (they were among the most awful
ones which can well be conceived), but he exhibited (or said
he exhibited) some anaesthetic along with curare, and his
licence perfectly covered all that he had done, nor was it
needful that any record of the circumstance should appear in
the Returns.

8. Mr. Cartwright said that

“Dr. Rutherford is a man of'high honour, and he has stated that
so far from having practised upon forty dogs, or anything like it, the
whole of his experiments have been conﬁned to twelve dogs in one
year. This was necessarily the case because he was restricted by his
icence, and he abided by his licence strictly and loyally.”

If, indeed, Dr. Rutherford be a man of “ high honour,” it is
distressing to think how afﬂicted he must be at this state-
ment of his friend in Parliament, contrasting, as it does, with
his own signed report of his own experiments published in
the Britt's/z Medical Journal in 18777-8-9.

The report of these experiments extends through twelve
separate numbers, the last two of which are taken up by a

 

inf,

 




 

 

 

 

9

general summary of what he is pleased to term “results.”
Of the remaining ten numbers I possess nine, and here is
a detailed statement of the number of experiments reported
at full length in them, as extracted for me by our late
Secretary. Each Report concludes with the examination—-
after death—of its victim.

Dogs.

5th May, 1877 . . . . 11
7th July, ,, . . . . 20
14th Dec. 1878 2
21st ,, ,, 6
28th ,, ,, 3
11th Jan. 1879 3
18th ,, ,, 3
25th ,, ,, 8
1st Feb. ,, 6
Total 62

9. Mr. Cartwright said that “a large amount of beneﬁt is
acquired by the medical profession from these experiments,
and it is a noteworthy fact that there is never any need to renew
cm ewpeniment when once made.”

The following is some of the evidence which the Royal
Commission received on this subject.

Professor Humphry said (635), “ Experiments have to be
repeated and conﬁrmed many times before a fact is really
established ; ” and (7 40) agreed with Dr. Ray Lankester that
“ the number of experiments must increase very rapidly if the
progress of science is to be kept up.” Dr. Rutherford told the
Commission (2993), “Last year, for purposes of research,
I think 1 used about forty dogs.” He has since, in other
series of exactly similar experiments “used” sixty-two (wide,
above). Dr. Lauder Brunton told the Commission (5721) he
had used ninety cats in one series of experiments, and

A 3

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

10

(5747) that he had “used a much larger number.” Dr.
Crichton Browne said (3164) that “ forty-six animals” were
sacriﬁced in trying if chloral was antagonistic to picro-
toxine—and (3178) that twenty-nine animals were used in
Dr. Ferrier’ s series. These are the small and modest ﬁgures

of English vivisection, as admitted before the Royal Com-
mission. *

10. To show that the restrictions of the Act produce injurious
consequences, Mr. Cartwright said he would take the case of
Professor Lister. i

“It is,” he said, “in the knowledge of every one that that
gentleman’s discoveries have really revolutionised surgical science,

and, in the opinion of those best acquainted with the subject, he has
reduced the mortality of man by seven or eight per cent.”

This is a rather “large order” on our credulity. According
to the Registrar-General’s Returns the death-rate for England
in the last thirty years has only declined altogether a fraction
less than three per cent. , and l have not heard that any much
greater decline has been noticed in any other country,
whether Listerism prevail therein, or the population still
remain in ignorance of that great discovery. It appears also

hat there is not only some doubt about the “ reduction in
the mortality of man ” through the “ carbolic craze,” but
even a question whether a certain additional mortality be
not directly due to it. Dr. Keith, of Edinburgh, will probably
be generally considered one of those “well acquainted with the

 

* I say nothing of the myriads of victims of foreign recklessness,
as when 'Majendie, according to Flourens, sacriﬁced 4,000 dogs to
prove one hypothesis true, and another 4,000 to prove it false,
and when Orﬁla poisoned 6,000 dogs in the course of his researches
in toxicology. M. Blatin, quoting the Viennese Lumiere, says that
“ it is calculated that the number of animals carried off at Vienna
by physiology in 1850, 1851, and 1852, reached 56,000——to wit, dogs,
26,000; cats and rabbits, 25,000; horses and asses, 5,000. Dr. de Cyon
has just told us (Contemporary Review, April 1883, p. 505) that he
has performed “an incalculable number of vivisections.”




11

subject,” and he says of the carbolic treatment of Lister, after
mentioning that some patients had died of it, “I have
given it up, believing that on the whole it did more
harm than good.” (Trans. Intern. Med. Congress, 1881,
vol. ii. p. 236). Mr. Lawson Tait also may be supposed to
be “acquainted with the subject,” and after an immense
number of carefully graduated experiments, he came to the
conclusion that “carbolic acid has done much more harm
than good, and that it would perhaps have been better if we
had never heard of it.” Dr. Dudgeon remarks, “ Some
surgeons have had to give up carbolic acid, because it poi-
soned not only their patients, which might be borne with
equanimity, but even their illustrious selves, which was in-
tolerable. A recent attempt in the Paris hospitals to apply
the carbolic acid treatment to the cure of typhoid fever was
followed by disastrous consequences, the mortality having been
shocking.” (IIalmemamz, &c. p. 95.)

11. Mr. Cartwright said that

“ the provisions of the Act made it impossible to operate except in
a public place.’ ” -

The “provisions of the Act” do no such thing. There is
nothing concerning public places in them. All the labora-
tories in the kingdom are sufﬁciently private for anything
Professor Lister could reasonably desire to do in them, and
in several cases private residences have been licensed for

' vivisection, 6.9., one in Queen Anne Street, and another at

35, Park Road South, Birkenhead. The desire for still
further and closer privacy on the part of Dr. Lister is some-
what ominous. What experiments can they be which he
desires to make and dare not, under the same shelter as that

of which Dr. Rutherford and Dr. Roy have availed them-

selves ?

12. Mr. Cartwright said that

“ the evidence brought forward for Lamson’s conviction was based
on an experiment upon a living anima .”

 




 

 

12

In point of fact the mice experiments proved nothing, and
could prove nothing, as regards aconite ; and the experts were
so well aware of the fact that they did not press them at the
trial. They were discarded by judge and jury alike. From
a larger point of view we recognise that, as numerous sub-
stances poisonous to man are innoxious to various animals, all
such experiments on animals in poison cases are liable to con-
duce, not to the ends of justice, but to the most fatal mistakes.

13. Mr. Cartwright (and after him, Dr. Playfair) told
several wonderful stories of patients at death’s door, all saved
as by miracle, by their medical attendants, who instantly there
and then experimented on some animal, and solved the problem
of life and death on the spot. These are the sort of anecdotes
which, we fear, pro-vivisecting doctors are in the habit of
narrating to tearful old ladies, who confess to them their inten-
tion of sending ﬁve pounds to the Anti-Vivisection Society, and
who must be rescued from such infatuation by the most
lively efforts of the medical imagination. But to ﬁnd these
“ fairy tales of science ” solemnly told in the House of Com-
mons to conﬁding legislators is somewhat surprising. It is
difﬁcult to believe that the narrators are not aware that such
problems as they presuppose are insoluble in any such 'way;
and that practical physicians and surgeons are hardly ever
vivisectors at all, much less disposed suddenly to have recourse
to vivisection to elucidate single cases whereon the practice
could scarcely throw light under any conceivable contingency.
We have heard a gentleman remark that “ if his leg were to
be cut off, he should like his doctor ﬁrst to cut off the leg of
a dog to see how it was done.” Some such crude idea‘of the
mbdus of surgery, and of the objects of physiological research,
seems to have prevailed in the House of Commons, when it
listened to such histories as that, told by Mr. Cartwright,
of a patient in lockjaw for whom his doctor prepared
a drug. It was difﬁcult, Mr. Cartwright said, to ascertain




 

13

the strength of the preparation without testing it, and so,
according to Mr. Cartwright’s account, the doctor heroically
broke the law and applied the test.

What this mysterious drug may be, of' which the prepara-
tions are unmarked in the pharmacopoeia, we cannot guess.
But if, because his preparation of it did not happen to kill a
dog or a mouse, the heroic doctor ventured to administer it
to a man, we can safely say he risked breaking something
more than the Vivisection Act—to wit, the Sixth Command-
ment. Another wonderful story about an oculist is even
more vague and silly.

14. Dr. Playfair, after Mr. Cartwright, “ took up I the
wondrous tale,” and gave a remarkable illustration of the
mischief of restricting vivisection.

“If a patient,” he said, “ was constipated, and it was supposed to be
necessary to employ so drastic a remedy as croton oil, but the medical

man wished to see, in the ﬁrst instance, if castor oil would serve his
purpose, he could not do so if this Bill (Mr. Reid’s) passed into law.”

Truly it is surprising how the medical men in the H‘buse of
Commons could sit by with grave faces and listen to this kind
of thing. Had Mr. Reid been allowed time to cross-examine

’ Dr. Playfair as to how he proposed to test the croton oil and

Castor oil on healthy dogs, cats, guinea pigs, or rabbits, so as
to obtain an insight into their probable action on his human
patient labouring under a speciﬁc attack, it would have been
instructive, and perhaps diverting, to the solemn labours of
the British Senate. '

15. Dr. Playfair remarked,

“that the operation of the law is examined by two inspectors—one
appointed for Great Britain, Dr. Busk, whose medical capacity is well
known, and the other, Professor Stokes, for Ireland.”

Mr. George Busk, EROS, the Inspector for Great Britain,
has, I understand, never been a practising physician, and

 




 

 

 

l4

consequently his “medical capacity” can scarcely be “well
known.” As to “ ProfessorStokes,” I am much interested to
identify his personality. There is indeed a celebrated physician
in Dublin named Dr. William Stokes; but then he is not “ Pro-
fessor Stokes,” and is not inspector under the Vivisection Act.
And there is .3 “Professor Stokes ” who gives lectures on
Memory at the Aquarium; but he has, so far as I am
aware, nothing to [do with vivisection. And ﬁnally, there is
a Dr. Thornly Stoker, of Dublin, whose signature is attached
to the Parliamentary Returns under the Vivisection Act, and
who may therefore reasonably be supposed to be the Irish
inspector. Dr. Playfair apparently composed, for the use of
Ireland, a sort of human shamrock of the real inspector, Mr.
Stoker; the Dublin physician, Dr. Stokes, and the lecturer on
Mnemonics at the Aquarium.

16. Dr. Playfair said that,

“ Dr. Ferrier made a distinct declaration to the Royal Commission
that his experiments were made under anaesthetics, and when the
animals were not suffering pain.”

This is no doubt literally true. But after the actual cutting
and cautery, the poor monkeys are recorded by Dr. Ferrier
in his Croom'cm Lecture (published by Triibner and 00.),
mostly to have perished through weeks of misery; dying at
last of that very painful disease—purulent meningitis. The
assertion of the painlessness of the actual ewpem'ment of
removing part of the skull and mutilating the brain is there-
fore delusive ; I might almost venture to say wilfully
misleading.

17. Dr. Playfair admitted that the

“ literature of - the subject abounded with shocking examples of
cruelty, but the instances are all, except in one or two cases, taken
from foreign sources. Unluckily, there has been a very great indiffer-
ence to suffering abroad, but we are not asked to legislate for abroad.”

 

 

 




15

Certainly we are not asked to legislate for abroad. But
when we ﬁnd our English physiologists working in foreign
laboratories, bringing foreign physiologists to assist them
here, and welcoming the most eminent vivisectors to their
Congress with open arms, and ﬁnally proposing to raise
monuments to the very“ Prince of Tormentors,” Claude
Bernard, it is time we should legislate so as to keep for ever
from our shores this “ very great indifference to suffering”
which Dr. Playfair. thinks simply “ unlucky,” but which
we think criminal. There is already a “Channel Tunnel”
between English and continental laboratories. We desire to
maintain our “ silver strip.”

18. Dr. Playfair cited the killing of wolves and snakes in
India as if it had a direct bearing on the question of vivisect-
ing domestic animals in England.

Probably most readers will agree with Mr. George Russell
who “ failed to see the connection ” between the two things.

Perhaps this is what is called in sporting parlance “ drawing

a red herring across the scent.”

19. Dr. Playfair makes a great display of ethical philo-
sophy in laying down the canon,

“ Man’s duty to man is greater than his duty to beasts.”

I entirely concur in the principle, but I consider that
it requires those who hold it to prohibit vivisection. Man’s
paramount duty to man is founded on the fact of the moral
nature of man, and, consequently, regards, primarily and
before all others, the interests, of that moral nature. We
are required by the highest ethics to seek the moral beneﬁt
of our brother before his physical welfare; his Virtue before
his Happiness. This being the case, we must endeavour to
stop a practice injurious to the moral interests of humanity.
Vivisection is unquestionably thus injurious to the moral in-
terests of humanity, irrespective of the contention whether it
be, or be not, conducive to any physical advantage.

 




 

16

20. Dr. Playfair spoke of the time when Galvani

“ put a copper hook through the spine of live frogs and hung them on
the iron rails of his balcony in Bologna.”

“The lover sees the beloved object everywhere.” Dr.
Playfair sees vivisection even where it does not exist. The
marvel of Galvani’s (or rather, I believe, the Signora
Galvani’s) discovery was, that it was possible to stimulate the
muscles of dead frogs. Over that same balcony in Bologna
now hangs the inscription commemorating that it was

DALLE M ORTE BANE.

that Galvani scoperse la Ellettm'cita animale.

21. Again, we have a wonderful story of two German
students engaged with a poison of which the properties are
“so terrible” that Dr. Playfair would not even “name” it
to the House lest (as it would seem) the British Parliament
might be suddenly seized with the passion of a Brinvilliers
or a Locusta.

“It is postponed in its action and then produces idiotcy or death.
An experiment on a mouse or a rabbit would have taught them the

danger. ”

How would it have taught them the danger, supposing the
“terrible ” poison, for example, had been belladonna, of
which rabbits can eat large quantities Without hurt? Or
how, if they had tried the “terrible” drug on a mouse,
would the “postponed” idiotcy of that small rodent have
inspired these unfortunate Germans with proper caution?

22. Dr. Playfair said,

“There are only thirty or forty laboratories in the Whole world
engaged in studying the laws of life,” 850.

It is to be presumed that before Dr. Playfair undertook to
share this discussion, he at least glanced over the Parliamen-
tary Returns of Licences for the past year; or that, if he
failed to look at them, Sir William Harcourt must certainly

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

17

have done so. Yet Dr. Playfair stated, and Sir William
Harcourt did not correct him in stating, that there are “ only
in the whole world thirty or forty laboratories.”

It happens that according to the latest Return there are now
(so far as its clumsy arrangement permits of calculation) just
thirty-two licensed laboratories in the United Kingdom alone.
There are thirty-nine more in France, duly registered by
Government; thirty-two in Italy; twenty in Germany; ﬁve in
the Netherlands; ﬁve in Switzerland; four in Austria; four in,
Sweden; one in Denmark, and one in Norway. Total, one
hundred and forty-three laboratories in Europe alone, with
two hundred and forty-one physiologists ofﬁcially attached to
them.

23. Sir William Harcourt attacked Mr. Reid’s Bill because
it would stop scientiﬁc cruelty and leave other cruelty un-x
touched. The sneer came somewhat inopportunely when the
House has just refused to admit the Clause of the second
Bill promoted by the Victoria Street Society (Mr. Ander—
son’s), whereby all animals held in captivity would have been
placed under protection.

24. Sir William Harcourt told Mr. Reid that though he
had

“listened most attentively ” to his speech he “ never heard one cruel
experiment. ”

It is well that the opponents of vivisection should once for
all know what experiments they are which the Home Secre-
tary does not think cruel. We therefore reproduce here
the exact words of Mr. Reid to which Sir W. Harcourt had
“ just listened most attentively.”

“ I will take one instance from certain experiments performed by Pro-
fessor Rutherford, and reported in the British Medical Journal. I

refer to the series of experiments commenced December the 14th, 1878.
These experiments were thirty-one in number; no doubt there were

 




 

 

18

hundreds of dogs sacriﬁced upon other series of experiments, but now
I am only referring to one particular set beginning as I say on the 14th
of December, 1878. There were in this set. thirty-one experiments,
but no doubt many more than thirty-one dogs were sacriﬁced. All
were performed on dogs, and the nature of them was this : The dogs
were starved for many hours. They were then fastened down; the
abdomen was cut open; the bile duct was dissected out and out; a
glass tube was tied into the bile duct and brought outside the body.
The duct leading to the gall—bladder was then closed by a clamp and
various drugs were placed into the intestines at its upper part. These
experiments were performed without anaesthetics—the animals were
experimented upon under the inﬂuence of a drug called curari.”

Here is a second——

“ Let me refer to what has been done by Dr. Boy in 1880, partly in
the physiological laboratory at Cambridge, and partly in the Leipsic
Institute, the experiments being carried out on rabbits, cats, and
dogs. The animal was placed under curare, artiﬁcial respiration
was used, that is to say, a tube was pushed down the animal’s wind-
pipe, and worked by an engine in regular puffs in order to keep the
blood oxygenated. Then the back, skull, chest, and abdomen were
opened. I don’t suppose these were always opened in one animal,
as in many cases the animal would have died. No doubt sometimes
part of the experiment took place on one, and sometimes on another.
The various organs were dissected out. The principal nerves such as
the sciatic nerve and so on, were tied in two places and cut. This
lasted for many hours. It is stated the animal was under the inﬂuence
of anaesthetics, but the use of curare is admitted. In the most scientiﬁc
opinion, when curare is used, it neutralises the use of the anaesthetic.
I feel myself at a great disadvantage in treating of these matters as
compared with the gentlemen beside me; but if I am making a mistake,
I trust I may be corrected. In this instance, however, I believe I am
right. Curare creates paralysis, it paralyses the muscles and prevents
the animal resisting or showing the symptoms by which alone the
existence of anaesthesia can be tested.”

These experiments—let it never be forgotten—the present
Secretary of State for the Home Department, in whose hands
rests the executive of the Vivisection Act, does not consider
‘ cruel.” I should very much like to hear Sir William Har-
court’s deﬁnition of a “ cruel experiment.”

 

 




 

 

19

27. Perhaps the most important thing in this debate is the
frank avowal of the Home Socretary that he has “ accepted
the assistance ” of the AsSociation for the Advancement of
Medicine by Research—~a Society avowedly formed for the
encouragement of Vivisection—in working the Act of 1876.
Here is a Kilmainham Treaty again! But to apply to the
Land League to keep the F enians in order, would, in com-
parison be a statesmanlike proceeding on the part of the
Executive. The Act was professedly aimed to restrict
Vivisection, and thus “to reconcile the claims of Science
and Humanity,” according to the recommendation of the
Royal Commission. The working of it was entrusted to one
of her Majesty’s Secretaries of State, no doubt expressly to
afford the public a guarantee that the restriction should be
a bond ﬁde one, and that the balance between Science and
Humanity should be held fairly. Now we ﬁnd that the
gentleman whom we are called to trust for the carrying out
of this compromise, has “ Obtained the assistance ” of the
persons who have founded an Association to promote Vivi-
section I '

28. Finally, Sir William Harcourt interrupted Mr. George
Russell when speaking of vivisectional demonstrations to stu-
dents, by this astounding assertion :—

“ Under the Act these demonstrations are prohibited,” or (as he was
reported by the Times) ‘ ‘ Under the Act demonstrations were forbidden. ”

Now in the Act in question (39 and 40 Vict. c. 77), clause
3, section 1, are these words :—

“Experiments may be performed under the foregoing provisions as
to the use of anaesthetics by a person giving illustrations of lectures in
medical schools, hospitals, or colleges or elsewhere, on such certiﬁcate
being given as in this Act mentioned, that the proposed experiments
are absolutely necessary for the due instruction of persons to whom
such lectures were given ...... ”

The permission for demonstrations to students thus accorded

 




 

 

20

by the Act has been used according to the Returns every year
since the Act was passed; and, in the last of these Returns,
issued from Sir William Harcourt’s own ofﬁce in 1882, for
188.1, no less than sixteen persons are registered as holding
such certiﬁcates, “Permitting experiments in illustration of
lectures.” In 1878 there were 8‘such certiﬁcates registered,
in 1879 there were 15, and in 1880 also 15. The Inspector
himself in his Report for 1878 mentions that there were in
that year 47 experiments performed under such certiﬁcates
in illustration of lectures.

It seemed sufﬁciently unaccountable that Sir William Har
court should sit by silently while Mr. Cartwright misled the
House respecting the bearing of the Act of 1876 on the
vivisection of cats and dogs. But that he should himself
interrupt a speaker for the purpose of telling the House that
demonstrations are “prohibited under the Act,” when they are
JVOT prohibited, and when he has himself, in the past year,
given to sixteen persons permission to use such demonstrations,
——-is a fact which I forbear to qualify, since I cannot do so
veraciously in terms reserving the respect due to the high
ofﬁce held by Sir William Harcourt in the Government of
this kingdom.

It is consolatory to reflect that, even with the help of the
twenty-eight misstatements above signalised, the advocates of
Vivisection dreaded a Division, and had recourse to Sir J.
McKenna’s inane remarks to “talk out” Mr. Reid’s Blll.
We may speculate hopefully as to the result when the facts
become sufﬁciently public to compel Vivisectors and their
supporters to rely on truth only to defend their practice, and
then allow a well-informed Parliament to decide on the issue.

 

 

 








 




