a. Enclosure No....z.....to despateh wo‘lﬁh‘liorl‘lllqug...

L.

~ from the Efribiis'é'y'dt LondoniEngland- . l

-QTO TEACHERS  ‘ . I

There has been a great advance inthe teaching of Humane Education since the Ministry of Education
suggested that this subject should be included in the syllabus, and teachers. are realising more and more
.the inﬂuence such teaching can have in the formation of character. The National Council for Animals’
Welfare exists for the purpose of meeting the needs of teachers and others for special literature, leaﬂets,
’posters, etc., and of organising Animals’ Welfare Weeks. during which special stress. can be laid on the
various aspects of the subject. ‘ - i

We enclOse herewith copies of leaﬂets which would be useful for the children at each stage —-
Infants, Juniors, Seniors; We have also other suitable‘leaﬂets. It is impossible for us: at the: present time
to send vast quantities of literature free of cost, but there is a, scheme, details of which are given below '
(me No, 2) which meets. this difficulty. ’ ‘

The celebration of Animals’ Welfare Week need not interfere with the curriculum of the school in
any way, for the subject matter can be easily introduced into the work. WE venture to put forward for
your consideration a few ideas gleaned from the experience of teachers in many schools in many districts.

If you should require leaﬂets, posters, or emblems, please let us know numbers wanted and the age

of children.

 

 

 

(

 

 

sweater

C . .
Suggestions for the Celebration of MLLEETIONS

ANIMALS' WELFARE WEEK

Special assembly of the whole school, special prayers, songs, recitations, etc., address from the Head.

Wearing of badges. (head of dog, cat or horse). These can be supplied by the N.C.A.W. at 1d.
each, which would pay for literature, etc. ,
Stories of animal and bird life, etc., slogans, and proverbs on kindness introduced in reading,
writing, composition and nature study lessons. ' '

A talk given-by an outside speaker which the N.C.A.W. would be glad to arrange.

Where practicable, slides, or ﬁlms on wild life obtainable from several Film Libraries and the
N.C.A.W.. {Mi-3.

'3
“'5 Km Mmr.

AETERNATNE‘SF‘. u." d a" '

 

Suggestions for GENERAL HUMANE
" TEACHING.

CKUEITIES JEN THE, HOME.
Dogs on Chains. Cold and draugﬁty kennels.

Cats left out at night and in empty houses and during
holidays.

Birds in cages, including foreign birds. Bird nesting and
catapults, .

Teasing of kittens and puppies by younger children.

General. non-feeding of cats, dogs, rabbits, birds and

absence of clean water for all animals including rabbits.

Gold fish, Newts, etc.,. in small} bowls.

m I 7 ~ -‘

 

The running wire. Walks everyday,
entrance turned away from wind.

A warm bed provided, arrangements made with. neigh-
bours or cats’ home.

Friendship with wild birds.
and snowy weather.
”distance. .

Made to stroke fur right way and shown, correct handling,

Teaching oi: proper feeding, otherwise best not to have

them. Possibly better not to have.wi1d creatures in

captivity at all—or rabbits, tortoises, fancy mice,
white rats, etc.

If kept at all should onlybe in large tanks: or- aquariums
under. proper conditions.

Kennels on bricks,

Feeding of birds in frost
Observation of habits at a.

 




CRUE‘LTIES IN THE WORLD.

. While it is not advisable to tell children too much about the horrors p'erpetrated on animals, birds,
. etc., it IS posmble to make them aware that much suffering is caused in the world and to indicate the cause
and possrble cure. Some of the most ﬂagrant are:—

(a) Suffering through using animals for food, the transport, marketing, killing. Most of this could
be stopped by use of more" thought in handling and of humane killer everywhere for all animals.

(4b) Cruelty, mental and physical, in capture, caging, training and transport of animals for zoos,
menag-eries and circuses.. False ideas are given to children when they see animals in these un—
natural conditions, the only really educational method ,is the ﬁlm of true animal wild life.

(c) Cruelties in sport. Can we check children who want to chase cows, cats, etc., and use cater—
pults, when we sow seeds of cruelty by allowing them to attend hunt meetings, and encouraging
them to kill moles, ﬂies, rats, etc. ‘ '

(d) Cruelties for trapping for food and fur. Humane methods could be used or substitutes evolved.

(e) Senseless destruction through ignorance of feeding habits of birds, smallimammals, etc., and
resultant damage to crops through pests.

(f) Docking of horses’ and dogs’ tails which cause untold suffering in hot weather through ﬂies.

 

All through the year the attention can be called to the wonders of Nature, the keeping of a Nature
diary would encourage observation, and give the children a realisation of the unity of Life and of the
marvel of rhythm and balance which underlies all manifestation, the upsetting of which causes man so much
trouble and useless suffering.

THE ANIMALS’ FRIENDS.

A Society for children from 7 to 16, is a Branch of the National Council for Animals’ Welfare.
Members join in Groups or individually.

 

For further details, information, literature, speakers, etc.. please write to the

SECRETARY, NATIONAL COUNClL FOR ANlMALS' WELFARE,
32,:Queen's Avenue, London, N.lO

 

PRAYERS FOR ANIMALS.

MERCIF UL FATHER, Who hast given life to all things, and lovest all that Thou hast made, pour

' i into the hearts of men the Spirit of Thy own loving kindness, that they may show mercy to all helpless

creatures and glorify Thee by that gentleness which is in accordance with Thy holy will. Through Jesus
Christ our Lord. .

The Prayer 1945 been adopted for me by the mrz'om Diocerer in ‘tbe Union of S. Africa.

OR those also, 0 Lord, the humble beasts, who with us bear the burden and heat of the day, and offer
their guileless lives for the well—being of their countries, we supplicate Thy great tenderness of heart, for
ThOu hast promised to save both man and beast, and great is Thy loving kindness, 0 Master Sav1our of

the World. Lord have mercy. . .
(From a Li‘tcmy used during Wer-z‘zme.)

 

A. V. Hucklc & Son, Ltd., Printers, 60 Ramsden Road, Balham. London, S.W.12.

 




