That “Pin-Prick " Experiment
HOW THE PUBLIC IS HOODWINKED

According to the Parliamentary Return for 1934:—

“The experiments performed without anaesthetics,
665,362 in number, were mostly inoculations and feeding
experiments.” .

It is claimed that: “Experiments performed under
Certificate A without anaesthetics are only such as are
attended by no considerable, if appreciable, pain.”

The following illuétration is from a photo of a live
guinea-pig four days after being inoculated under the
skin of the abdomen with staphylococcal bacilli.

[Photo supplied by Medica-Bio/ogical Laboratories, Ltd.

On the second day following inoculation “a purple
patch with a vivid red surround appeared and a high
temperature developed.” When the photograph was
taken “ a large scab had formed, suppurating freely. The
guinea-pig expired towards the eighth day in a Condition
of extreme cachexy (waéting).”

[P.T.o.

 




FURTHER INSTANCES OF INOCULATIONS'
FOLLOWED BY MUCH SUFFERING:___

(l) Injection of badterial toxins into rabbits, causing
diarrhoea, convulsions, great wasting, intense conjuncti-
vitis, until death in six to twenty—four hours. (Lancet,

August l7, l929, p. 3l9).

(2) Injection of shale oil into the intraperitoneal
cavities of rabbits, resulting in liver necrosis, those not
killed dying in four to five days. (British journal ofExper.
Pathology, February, l933, p. 24).

(3) Injection of morbid material into mice, resulting
in ulceration of the feet, paralysis, conjunctivitis, keratitis,
and later deétrudtion of the whole eye, before death
ensued in about ten days. (British Iournal of Exper.
Pathology, June, I933, p. I32).

(4) Injection of benzene, in massive doses, into the
thigh-muscles of rabbits, causing severe local reaction,
necrosis of muscles, and death, some lingering for three

weeks. (journal ofImmunotogy, December, I934, p.525).

(5) Experiments are continually being performed for
the standardisation of toxins; the effect of diphtheria
toxin is a typical example:—

” When the (injected) culture is not in its most virulent
state or the dose is small, the animal may survive for a
week, or even much longer, and finally succumb in a
State of marasmus. The local lesion, at first soft, be—
comes indurated; necrosis sets in, and the whole affected
area may slough and leave a slowly healing, granulating
wound.” (A System of Bacteriology, l929. Medical
Research Council; Vol. V., p. 90).

in the “ pain ”clause attached to certificate “A," under
which inoculations are carried out (and which dispenses
with the necessity for an anaesthetic), the animal may be
kept alive in severe pain that is not prolonged, or
prolonged pain that is not severe, until the main result
of the experiment has been achieved.

Even after this point the animal may still be kept alive
in pain so long as it is only moderate and not likely to
endure. In both cases the Vivisec‘tor is the judge as to the
severity of the pain and as to its probable duration.

When either scientific curiosity or commercial profit
are the end in View, there can be little doubt but that the
sufferings of the animals concerned stand small chance
of being ,mercifully assessed. M.B.B.

Issued by

The Animal Defence & Anti-Vivisection Society,
15 St. James's Place, St. James's Street, London, S.W.1

and 4 Cour St. Pierre Geneva, Switzerland

President Founder and Hon. Director
THE DUCHESS OF HAMILTON MISS LlND-AF-HAGEBY

 




