In the Company of
Anti - Vivisectionists *

 

Are you Ashamed of being an
, Anti-Vivisectionist P .

 

Viviseciionists have said that only fools and sentimentalists support
the Anti-Vivisection Movement. ‘ What are these ?

 

John Ruskin : V

“ These scientiﬁc pursuits are now defiantly, provokingiy,
insultingly separated fron:1 the science of religion ; they are
all carried on in defiance of What has hitherto been held to
be compassion and pity, and of the great link which binds
together the Whole creation, from its Maker to the 10Wcst
creature.”-——(Speech at Ozrford, 1884.)

(Ruskin resigned his chair in 1885 as Slade Professor of Fine Arts,

in the University of Oxford, as a protest against the inclusion of
vivisection among the methods of teaching at the University.)

 




 

Robert Browning :

“ I would rather submit to the worst of deaths, so far as
pain goes, than have a sii'lgle dog or cat tortured on the
pretence of sparing me. a twinge or two.”——~(me. a/lette-r
to lilies Cobbe.) ‘

Tennyson :

“‘ I could think he was one of those who could break thei
jests on the degid, '

And mangle the living dog that had loved him and fawned
at his knee, _

Drenched with. the hellish ourali . . that ever such
thing should be.”’——(In the Children’s Hospital.)

“ “7e shudder but to dream our maids should ape
Those monstrous males, that carve the living hound."
~ w—(The Princess: A Alledley.)

Charles Dickens :

“ According to an official report, nearly a hundred cruel
experiments have been made upon the lower animals for the
ourpOse of investigating the subject of suspended animation.
. . . The necessity for these experiments I dispute. Man
has no right to gratify an idle and purposelcss curiosity
through the practice of eruelty.”—~—-(Fr0m “ All the Year
R0mzd.”)

Voltaire : .
“ . . . This dog, so very superior to man in his affection,
is seized. by some barbarian Virtuosos, who nail him to. a
table, and dissect him while living, the better to show you

(
,3

 

 

 

 

 




A, rﬂ-w,vé., .‘

 

 

 

 

 

 

-_-_*__....___.__-_. _A......

the mezeraic veins. All the same organs of sensation
which are in yourselves you perceive in him. Now, you
automatonists (machinistes), What say you ‘3’ Answer me. ,
Has Nature created all the springs of feeling in. this animal.
that it may not feel ? Has he nerves to be without pleasure '
or pain ? For shame I Charge not Nature with such
weakness or inconsistency."——-—(“Dz°ct'ion-naire Philosophique,”
English trmislat'in'ﬁ, pages 29 and 30.)

Victor Hugo :

“ Vivisection is a crime. It can only be excused by
hypotheses, and hypothesis as a- basis for such practice is
horrible and shocking. . . . The Science which uses it as a
pretext is culpable. . . . The human race must repudiate
such barbarous practices.”-—-—*(F'r0m a speech to a deputation,
1884.) ' ~ ' ‘

Auguste Comte :

“ There can scarcely be imagined any experiments less
capable of true scientiﬁc success than. those of Vivisection,
though they have been the most frequent. We must not
consider our rights (over animals) as absolutely unlimiter .”
——( C amte’s Philosophy.)

Richard Wagner :

“ The thought of their sufferings pei'ietrates with horror
and dismay into ‘my soul, and in the sympathy evoked I
recognise the strongest impulse of my moral being, and
also the probable source of all my art. The total abolition
of the horror we ﬁght against must be our real aim.

0
»0J

 




 

In order to attain this our opponents, the Vivisectors,

must be frightened, thoroughly frightened, into seeing

the people rise up against them with sticks and Cudg’els.
Difﬁculties and costs must not discourage us,”——( Translated
from a letter on. Viviseetion to Ernst van W eber.)

Alfred Russel Wallace:

“ The moral argument'against Vivisection remains whether
the animals suffer as much as we do or only half as much.
'The bad effect on the operator and on the students and
. spectators remains; the undoubted fact that the practice
tends to produce callousness and a passion for experiment.
which’lead to unauthorised experiments in hospitals on un-
protected patients, remains; the horrible callousness of
binding the sufferers in the operating-trough, so that they
cannot express their pain by sound or motion, remains;
their treatment after the experiment by careless attendants,
brutalised by custom, remains; the argument of the use-
lessness of a large proportion of the experiments, repeated
again and again on scores and hundreds of animals to conﬁrm
or refute the work of other vivisectors, remains; and
ﬁnally, the iniquity of its use, to demonstrate already-
established factsto physiological students in hundreds of
colleges and schools all over the world, remains.~—(F-mm
“ World of Life”)

Mark Twain :

“ I believe I am not interested to know whether vivi-
section produces results that are proﬁtable to the human
' race or doesn’t. ' r

“ To know that the results are proﬁtable to the race
would not remove my hostility to it. The pains which it

4

{a
a




inﬂicts upon unconsenting animals is the basis of my enmity
toward it, and it is to me sufﬁcient justiﬁcation of the
enmity without looking further.”
Dr. Anna Kingsford: _

“ My own life has been one of great bodily suffering,

' and I am, therefore, well acquainted with pain of this nature.

But all the many and various physical torments I have
undergone are as nothing when compared with the mental
suffering which has been caused me by the knowledge of
the practices and principles of Vivisection. . .

“ Will any physical beneﬁt which the Vivisectors may ever
wrest for mankind from their mangled, poisoned, cruciﬁed,
or scalded martyrs, ever compensate us————the men and
women who think and feel as I do-for all the hideous
mental pain their deeds have caused us ? My heart is thrust
through and through by their knives and their gouges,
and do they offer in compensation for such deadly wounds
to expound to me the ponstitution of tubercle, or to heal a
Scratch on my skin ? Do they prate to me about science
and health when they have made the whole earth a Wilden
ness for me? And my whole life one long struggle and
protest ? Every moment of my waking hours is absorbed
by the warfare against this great wrong ; my very sleep is
rendered fearful by visions of its horrors. Who or what is
to compensate me for this? ”~——~(F7'0m a, letter to the Press.)

Edward Maitland :

“ If vivisection be right, then has the world existed and
mankind striven and suffered in vain.”-—-(In a letter to the
“ Examiner,” 1876.)

 




 

Dr. Johnson :

“ What is alleged in defence of these hateful practices
everyone knows, but the truth is that by knives, ﬁre, and
poisons, knowledge is not always sought, and is very seldom
attained. I know not that by living dissections any discovery
has been made by which a single malady is more easily
cured. And if the knowledge of physiology has been some—
what increased, he surely buys knowledge dear who learns
the use of the lacteals at the expense of his own humanity.
It is time that a universal resentment should arise against
those horrid operations, which tend to harden the heart and
make the physician more dreadful than the gout or the
'stone.”~—e(“ The I (”ma”) '

Ingersoll : ‘

‘-‘ It is not necessary for a man to be a specialist in order
to have and express his opinion as to the right or wrong of
vivisection'. It is not necessary to be a scientist or a
naturalist to detest cruelty and to love mercy. Above all
the discoveries of the thinkers, above all the inventions of
, the ingenious, above all the victories of ﬁelds of intellectual

conﬂict, rise human sympathy and a. sense of justice. . . .”
”(From the “Chronicle of St. George,” U.S.A., May, 1891.)

Cardinal Manning :

“ I take the ﬁrst opportunity that has been offered to me
to renew publicly my ﬁrm determination, so long as life
is granted me, to assist in putting an end to that which I
believe to be a detestable practice without scientiﬁc result,

and immoral in itself. . . . I believe the time has come,
and I only wish we had the power legally, to prohibit
altogether the practice of Vivisection. . . . Nothing can

justify, no claim of science, no conjectural result, no hope

6 .

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

for discovery, such horrors as these. Also it must be
remembered that Whereas these torments, reﬁned and ill-
describable, are certain, the result is altogether conjectural.
weverything about the result is uncertain but the certain
infraction of the ﬁrst laws of mercy and humanity. . . .

“ I do not believe this to be the way that the All-wise
and All—good Maker of us all has ordained for the discoxi'ery
of the Healing Art, which is one of His greatest gifts to man.”
e—(Speech, June 21, 1882.) '

Bismarck :

“ I have always shared your indignatimr against the
' excesses of vivisection, ever since they have been known to
me ; and, although I hold no special administratiVe power
which would enable me to exercise a decided inﬂuence in
this direction, I should already have endeavoured to bring
about the diminution of experiments which involve cruelty
to animals, if the amount of working power which is still
left to me were not so inadequate that I have already been
obliged to relinquish ofﬁcial duties devolving on. me.”m-
(Letter to Ernst eon Weber, published in Dresden, 1883.)

Thomas Carlyle :

“ Mr. Carlyle has received your letter and read it carefully.
He bids me say that ever since he was a boy, when he read
the account of Majendie’s atrocities, he has never thought
of the practice of vivisecting animals but with horror. I
may mention that I have heard him speak of it in. the
strongest terms of disgust long before there was any speecl'i
about public agitation on the subject.”~—~(Dictated to a, niece
in answer to a correspondent, August 28, 1875; “er6 of
Frances Power Cobble,” Vol. 2, 10. $83. 1M7'. Carlyle supported
Ill/5.9.5“ Cobbe’s anti—viz)tsecttcn movement from the outset.)

7

 

 




Sir Lewis Morris :
English poet; author of The Epic of Hades.

“ Surely 21, 1112111 should scorn
To owe his weal to others’ death and pain 2
Sure, ’twere no real gain

To batten 011 lives so weak and so lorloen !
Nor were it right indeed,

To do for othels What for self were wrong.
’Tis but the same dead creed—w

Preaching the naked triumphs of the stro1'1g ;

“ And for this Goddess, Science, hard and. stem,

VVe shall not let he1 priests torment and burn.

We fought the priests before, and not in Vain:

And as we fought before, so VVe Will ﬁght again
~—~(F70m “ A Cloud of W witnesses?)

To these names we 1112.137 add Leeky, Jeremy Benthmn,
Cuvier, W illiam Lloyd Garrison, Oliver Goldsmith, Robert
Louis Stevenson, Tolstoy, Maurice Maeterlinek, John
Galsworthy, and George Bernard Shaw.

JOIN THE ANIMAL DEFENCE

AND
ANTI-VIVISECTION SOCIETY
35 OLD BOND 51:, LONDON, W.1

President: THE DUCHESS OF HAMILTON
Hon. Director: NEISS LIND—AFnﬂAGEBY

" Truth About Vivisection Series,” No. 2. Issued 1927. (Class A_ Publications)

 

Printed by the LONDON UALEDUNIAN 191111.575 LTD, 74 Swinton Street, W.C.~~«w14002

 




