HUMANE EDUCATION.

 

WHAT TO TEACH AND HOW TO TEACH IT.

[Reprinted from the Journal of Education]

 

An abstract of an Address before the Rhode Island Teachers’ Institute,
Providence, R. 1., Oct. 30, 1896, by Burt Jay Tice, A. M., Superin-
tendent of Schools, Shefﬁeld, Mass.

We all are thoroughly agreed that the chief object of school education is
good morals. We are also agreed that the giving of moral culture is the
teacher’s most difﬁcult task. I wish to suggest a few ways to make this
difﬁcult task easier and will mention a few things which I have done, which
I have seen my teachers do, and which any one easily can do. I assume that
all agree as to the value, the necessity of humane education. The question
is What to do and how to do it. .

What to do depends on the objects of humane education, which are in
brief these:

1. Practical knowledge — for the subject is as practical as the multipli-
cation table—knowledge about the care of domestic animals, the value of
birds to the farmer, and like subjects.

2. The prevention of the suffering of animals.

3. Training in thoughtfulness, sympathy and mercy, for the prevention
of all cruelty towards either man or beast.

I want to put a ton of emphasis on this idea, an idea so often overlooked,
that after all it is not so much the suffering of the animal which we are try-
ing to prevent as the moral degradation of the pe1son who causes that suffer-
ing. So much for the why and the what, now for the how.

How shall we teach? In general, by leading the pupil to know what to
do, and what not to do ; by interesting him in animals and creating in him a
leve for them ; and by cultivating a strong sense of right, and a tendency toward
kindness. But speciﬁcally how shall this be done? In four ways: indirectly,
incidentally, by correlation, and by direct teaching.

We can teach kindness to animals indirectly by our example and character.
There is no stronger teaching than that given by what the teacher does and is.
We can teach incidentally by occasional appropriate references and remarks.
If the teacher is interested in this subject there will be countless ways to ,show
it. Surely it is not a hard matter and there are plenty of chances, and it
does not take long to make some brief remarks such as these :—

(1)

» __ wry—-WWM-

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

It pays to take good care of domestic animals.

To give a horse cold water when he is warm is liable to ruin him.

Most birds are a great help to the farmer.

Fish should be killed as soon as taken out of the water.

Animals have rights as well as peOple.

All cruelty degrades the person who practices it.

To abuse any innocent and helpless creature is mean, cruel, and cowardly.

Any person who deliberately tortures a dumb animal WOuld commit any
crime not requiring courage.

Probably the most work in humane education can be done by correlating,
or uniting it with the regular studies of the school. A little thought will
enable a teacher to unite the subject with all or nearly all of the branches
commonly studied. It can be joined very easily with work in literature,
reading, language, nature study, and ethics. .

In literature have the pupils recite “ memory gems,” or read poems by
standard authors. Nearly every great author from Shakespeare to Long-
fellow has touched‘on this subject.

In the reading class “ Black. Beauty ” and similar works should be used
as supplementary readers. Suitable books and leaflets may be lent to pupils
to be read at home. ' "

In giving language lessons, stories told or read may be reproduced, or
compositions may be written on appropriate subjects given by the teacher.*
Nature study affords a ﬁne chance to teach kindness to animals. Any teacher
can do good work in this way. Says Colonel Parker “ Every child is a born
naturalist.” Let the child observe, draw, talk about, and write about com-
mon animals. Let him notice their habits and learn to care for them, and
nothing is more certain than that he will love them. It is the ignorant mob,
not the art-loving people, who deface statues and destroy paintings. So it
is the ignorant person who is cruel to animals, not one who has studied them
and. is interested in them.

One way which I have found both easy and effective is to lead children to
be interested in pictures of animals by standard artists. These may serve
also for language lessons. Choose a photograph of some good work of art,

 

* The following list will illustrate my idea and suggest others:

SUBJECTS FOR COMPOSITIONS, 4. The Humane Work Done by Henry Bergh.
5. The Humane Work Done by George '1‘.

Przmary Grades. Angel].

. Interesting Animals.

. The Uses of Animals.

. Acts of Kindness which I Have Seen.. High and Normal Schools.
. Lessons Learned'from “ Black Beauty.”

thWNH

1. Laws about Cruelty to Animals and the
Protection of Birds.

2. Inﬂuence of Humane Education.

3. The Rights of A nimals and the Protection
We Should Give Them.

Grammar Grades.
. HOW Wild Birds Help the Farmer.
. Cruelty to Horses.
3. Why it Pays to Treat Domestic Animals
Kindly. ‘

NH

(2)




as Rosa Bonheur’s “ Norman Sire ” and have made for it a frame with an
adjustable back, fastened with buttons. The picture can then be taken out
easily and another of the same size can be inserted in its place. Take the
picture and frame into aschool-room. Ask the children if they like it, and
of course they will say they do. Ask them if they would like to have it to hang
in their room, and watch the enthusiasm with which they answer “Yes,”
Inquire how many sometimes earn one, two, or ﬁve cents by doing odd jobs.
You will see many hands go up. Ask them if they will bring a few cents
from their savings or Spending money and give it to help buy the picture and
frame. If you fail to get them to say “ Yes,” yours will be the ﬁrst failure
I have ever heard of, and I have tried the plan myself dozens of times. The
same frame will do for any number of pictures, and pictures may be ex-
changed, or transferred from room to room and building to building, so that
the children may see a large number of pictures. It is not hard to raise
money by arranging entertainments or by soliciting subscriptions. Generally
pictures can be borrowed for a time without expense.

Some of my teachers have united humane education with nearly every
exercise on the program, including those in arithmetic, penmanship, civil
government, and singing. All that is needed is a little enterprise and the
work will be done.

Kindness to animals may be taught directly by talks which the teacher
may give, or may invite someone else to give ———any clergyman will speak if
asked — by the observance of “ Bird Day,” and by forming Bands of Mercy.ale

Let me add a few more suggestions.

Inform yourself thoroughly on this subject. Leaﬂets, books, periodicals,
and all necessary information, directions, and materials for every branch of
this work, including the forming and carrying on of Bands of Mercy, may be
obtained by calling on or writing to the HUMANE EDUCATION COMMITTEE, 61
WESTMINSTER STREET, PROVIDENCE, R. I.

An assortment of leaﬂets on the care and kind treatment of animals,
suitable for use in schools, will be sent by them on receipt of 25 cents in
postage stamps. Also, for 25 cents can be obtained a book entitled “ SONGS
OF HAPPY LIFE,” containing a ﬁne collection of songs, many of them with
original music, suitable for Bird Day, Arbor Day, and other exercises.

This book also contains a program for Band of Mercy meetings and
entertainments, and selections suitable for readings, recitations, and memory
gems.

“ Voices for the Speechless,” a book containing selections in prose and
verse from standard literature, will be sent for 40 cents, postage paid.

“ Black Beauty ” and other publications suitable for use in schools, can
be obtained by addressing Mr. George T. Angell, President of the American
Humane Education Society, 19 Milk St., Boston, Mass.

 

* Repeating the Band of Mercy pledge at least once a week is a good exercise for the children.
Pledge—“ I WILL TRY TO BE KIND TO ALL LIVING CREATURES, AND WILL TRY TO PROTECT
THEM FROM CRUEL USAGE.” ' ,

(3)

t
' \
N),
,
,/
:‘ /
' /
/"
x
/

 




Be sure to plan your work. Make it interesting. Be earnest and ani-
mated. Teach from a wide range of subject-matter, and in a variety of ways.
Teach easily, appropriately, and naturally.

Here are a few cautions about mistakes I have known to be made:

Don’t overdo. Teach steadily, not spasmodically. Don’t make extrava-
gant statements. Avoid controverted points and topics unfamiliar to you.
Avoid weak sentiment and highly improbable stories. Don’t describe revolt-
ing scenes. Don’t show pictures of hunting or battle scenes. Don’t suggest
unthought of cruelty. Avoid vivisection, and with young children dissection.
Don’t make your teaching stiff and formal. Don’t “ pull things in by the
ears.” Don’t obtrude the moral to your stories. Don’t “ preach.” Espec-
ially don’t preach one thing and practice another.

Said one little fellow to his mates, l“ I know why the teacher don’t want
us to rob birds’ nests. She wants the birds to grow up, so she can wear ’em
on her bonnet 1”

When I see a teacher, as I have done, with the bodies of three birds,
beautiful, harmless songsters, on her bonnet, I realize anew the force of ex-
ample, and the necessity of education.

Finally, if you ﬁnd that you or your pupils have lost interest, stop the
work at once.

Let me answer a few objections. You “ have no material.” You don’t
need much, and the little needed can be had for the asking. Do you say you
“ don’t know how?” The work is very simple. There is nothing in the
world a child is more interested in than animals. Search for and think out
ways to make the subject interesting. You can teach kindness to animals if
you can teach anything. But you “have no time.” Well, that objection
hasn’t the charm ofnovelty. But this work doesn’t take any time, or at least
takes very little, if you teach as I have suggested. _

Furthermore if you will omit the minute non-essentials in subject matter,

the dry, disconnected facts ; if you will not allow your pupils to mope, dawdle,
and idle ; if you will teach your children how to study ; if you will plan your
work, teach by proper methods, and in ungraded schools unite your classes ;
if you will save the minutes, you will have all the time needed for this and all
other necessary work.
’ Fellow-teachers, let us make our teaching stronger and richer. Let us
give our pupils something varied and inviting. Let us reach out more. Let
us reach out for and take in humane education. Too much so-called teach-
ing is unskilled labor, Too many of us are buried in our text-books, are
mechanical hearers of lessons, are mere word-jugglers, fact peddlers and
mind-stuffers. Let us put away all these things and teach. Let us put
brains and heart into our work. Let us become character-builders. Such
Work will compel people to realize the grandly important truth that teaching
is the profoundest science, the highest art, the noblest profession.

 

For copies of this leaﬂet address HUMANE EDUCATION COMMITTEE, 29 Exchange Street,
Ropm 25 (Elevator _27 Exchange Street), Providence, R. I. Price 40 cents per hundred, postage
paid. Twenty copies for 10 cents, postage paid.

 




