1% W r raucous

(9) Even, then, supposing that all the parts of the temporal
series contributed to make it a more complete representation of
reality, there can be no reason to suppose, as Mr. McTaggart
does, that the series would be a progress+t.e,, a series of which
the future members were better than the past. Yet this, as we
have seen, Mr. McTaggart at one time assumes for certain, and
at another calls “ more probable.” But many alternatives are
possible: Even if it remained at the same “dead level ” of
value throughout time, or underwent ﬂuctuations regular or
irregular, the whole of it might yet be necessary to manifest
reality as completely as possible; supposing there was reason
to think it exhibits a regularly increasing or decreasing series-
of value, it is quite as likely that this series increases in the-
direction of the past as in that of the future. Why, then, is it
“more probable” that it should increase in the future? Even
if it does, Mr. McTaggart admits that the early stages, which
were inferior in value and manifested reality less completely,
were necessary to the greatest possible perfection of the whole.
If so, then, supposing the case reversed, and that the mani-T
festation of reality is doomed in the future to become more-
and more incomplete, yet all these more incomplete stages,.
though inferior in themselves, might by a parity of reasoning
serve the purpose of making the manifestation contained in
the whole series more complete. In short, Mr. McTaggart’s-
optimistic view that every event in. time contributes to the
perfection of the whole temporal series (a view which, as we
saw, flatly contradicts his premises) is further quite compatible-
with a thoroughly pessimistic view of our whole future: if it
was compatible with the greatest possible perfection of the-
whole that our past characters should have been worse than
our present and future, it is equally compatible with that
perfection that our future characters should be worse than
our present and past. It is quite as likely that all the per:
' l'cctions which Mr. McTaggart supposes we shall have as we-
approach the end of our existence “in time, were really 1 .2

M

m

 




- 15"?

mnemeeanrfs-“STUDIEs’1v"itﬁii‘stmu “CO'SMOLOGY.” ’ 107‘"

possessed by us when we ﬁrst began it, and have gradually
/ been lost in successive lives ever since, and will continue to
be so. Nor can any empirical argument serve to render this
less probable. So far as such arguments tend to show any?
thing with regard to the whole temporal series, they make it
probable that this series exhibits mere alternation of periods
of more with periods of less valuegregq an alternation of
the existence with the non-existencewof human life, and if
Mr. McTaggart maintains that, nevertheless, there is a eon-T“
itinual progress towards the future, a continual decrease in
value towards the future is at least equally compatible with
:the facts.
To sum up, then: It does not seem that a series of future
lives merely bound to one another and to our present lives by
causal relations of the same kind, as those which bind the
various periods of those present lives themselves, offers by any
means so desirable a prospect as Mr. McTaggart tries to
persuade us that it does. When he says (p. 54): “We know
that nothing can be lost,” the most that he is entitled to mean
is that there will always be effects, of some kind somewhere,
causally connected with that which happens to us now. But
this is by no means all that he does mean, nor is it what, to
anybody else, will make that assurance sound so comfortable.
He does, as we have tried to show, mean also (a) that the
effect of our past within each. one of us will always be very
great; (lg) that this effect will have considerable similarity, not
only in value, but also in quality, to its cause; and the
arguments which he gives for these two conclusions cannot,
as we have seen, justify them. The most that he is entitled to,
assume is that the middle of our next life will have to the end
of this one as close a causal relation as the end of this one has
to its middle. But it certainly seems that the most valuable
.states and relations of middle life may have ceased to have any
but the slightest effect upon our condition in old age: there may
certainly be a great difference between the twb, and the change i; ﬂ

v”

 

 

—
IS”

 




may be greatly for the worse. This being so, it is as likely as
not that, after two or tlree lives, the effect of our present lives
upon gas would have become quite negligible, and that our
character and value would differ as much from what they now
are, as those of any two living men differ from one another.
Under these circumstances Immortality seems to promise us
but little advantage. Only one of the arguments, which
Mr. McTaggart advances in its favour, seenis to be sound in
principle. This is that the indefinite prolongation of our
existence would increase the chances of the consummation or
renewal of personal relations, with which misfortune has inter:
fered in this life (p. 44) ; but I am afraid that even the chance
thus obtained would turn out to be so very small as to be
scarcely worth considering; and there must, in any case, be
set against it increased chances of misfortune for those who
have been fortunate in this life.

»“' i ‘ I I
l So far we have been consulermg the value of such future

lives as Mr. McTaggart is, consistently with his premises,
. entitled to promise us. And it is well to remember two
points :——(1) That his arguments to prove that we should
have even such future lives as these, entirely broke down:
we have no reason to believe that we are immortal even in
his sense; and (2) that we have only been considering the
actual” character of those lives, neglecting, on the one hand,
the substance and unchangeable attributes, with regard to
which there seemed such doubt, whether they did 739} exist
in time at all, or existed permanently through time, and, on
_ ’ characters, by which we under?“
stand Mr. McTaggart to mean any past or future character
of one and the same person, which, at the time in question,
he does not actually possess. Mr. McTaggart himself, as we
have seen, rests his pleas for the value of immortality upon
the actual characters which he thinks he can prove we shall
possess; and there can be no doubt that our desire for immorli
tality largely depends upon them, nobody. can set much st01e : -

. .. ..,...-........—-...o.n.........._.—...«-.-— - ~

 




v ”amiss: swam-s .marinesuau...cosaronoavéi. 19-9

upon the hope of a future perfection, such as according to
Mr. Mc’l‘aggart he possesses alreadyvlra perfection which is
and will be utterly imperceptible both to himself and to
others; nor upon a future life in which, what he has lost
in this, will still be just as truly lost and past, as it is now,
even though he may believe that it is now potentially present
and will be then. m U -

Ml So far, then, we have seen Mr. McTaggart maintaining
(without good reason) that there will persist something which
may fairly be called we ; and ascribing to this something a
character much more valuable than his premises will justify.
But he also raises another question, important enough to
deserve some notice. Let us grant (what I cannot see my
way to deny) that a certain kind of causal relation between
a series of mental states is sufﬁcient to justify us in saying
that they belong to the ggfingdgcfson. There still remains the
question: Is a series of states .. “having this causal relation
53% that we mean by ourselves? Is the continuance of
such a series what we desire when we desire that ourselves
should persist after death? I think Mr. McTaggart has not
given sufﬁcient consideration to these questions. His deﬁnition
of personal identity is perhaps adequate to one sense in
which the word is used: “ personal identity ” may be some?
times used in philosophy, and rightly used, to mean no more
than this; and it certainly cannot be rightly predicated of
anything which does not” possess the properties by which
Mr. McTaggart deﬁnes it. But it is quite another question
whether, when we desire the continued existence of our own
or other selves, we are not desiring the existence of something
quite different, and I think that Mr. McTaggart’s argument is
apt to convey the delusive impression that--this~~ is "not another
question: his deﬁnition of “ personal identity ” is, he says, ﬂy:
right one, and it would seem to follow that, if we desire the
continuance of our personality at all, we must be desiring that

l- which he defines.

 

 




" QQMMW-G E ‘\:.~MOORE- . a?
' ‘ u ' o
rt». ’ '1

“ES

A T a.

m
,~.

3
v0

Mr. McTaggart has, no doubt, given himself the right to
reply that what we mean by ourselves is not only such a
causal series of states, but the whole formed by such a series
together with the identical subtance of which they are
attributes. But he has himself admitted in this chapter
that it is not the substance but the attributes which give
to such a whole the chief part of what we mean by “personal
identity.” “All substances,” he says (p. 37), “if abstraction
were made of their attributes, are absolutely indistinguishable,
and the distinction between persons would be non-existent.”
And later (p. 39) we ﬁnd 3;“ N or does personal identity seem
to have much meaning, if it loses its connection with the special
and unique interest which we feel in our own future as distin-f'"
guished from that of any one else?” It is plain, then, from
these two passages, that according to Mr. McTaggart (1) when
we speak of “ the same person,” the phrase has not “ much
meaning,” unless it refers to that which distinguishes the
person in question from all other persons; (2) that what does
distinguish each of us from any one else is not our substance.
To this we may add that what gives that “special and unique
interest” to our own future, cannot be the permanent and
unchangeable attributes, with which Mr. McTaggart endows
us, since these are wea:p12.311120““tings"; unknown to us. It follows that
what thus interests us, and is therefore the only thing which
gives “much meaning” to personal identity, must lie some?
where in the causally connected series of'changing states. And
our question is :TéDoes that which thus interests us in this
series of states, and which alone gives “ much meaning” to
personal identity, consist in the mere fact that they are causally
connected with our present state? If it does not, then that
by which Mr. McTaggart deﬁnes personal identity is 2L0! that
which, by his own admission, will alone give “ much meaning”
to personal identity.

. i Now I cannot but think that what gives to our own future
a special and unique interest for us, is not this mere fact that it {is \}

ILL. u...‘ " ... 1-... an .’ a... w...-.

. v
:m.2.;:a:m'-::~:.::Lz:;.z...* a...‘ “—2.3 :51“

mm:

 

M

 




Milk MCTAGUAltT-‘is ‘~“-SI‘UDIES IN HEGELIA’N"COSMOI‘.‘OG~Y-.~’3=~~ 201, . . «

will have a special and unique causal relation to our present.
And, at the same time, I agree'with Mr. McTaggart that that
which does give to our own future this special interest 32.»: that
which constitutes our main reason for calling it ours: when we
think of a future person as identical with ourselves, the chief
part of what we mean by this is that he has that relation to
our present selves, which makes him uniquely interesting to us.
What is it then in our own past and future, which at the same
time makes us call it ours, and gives us an unique interest in
it? What is it which we really desire when we desire the
continuance of our personal identity ?

f g This is a very difﬁcult question, and one in answering which
we should be glad to have had more help than Mr. McTaggart
gives us. His treatment of the subject seems to be almost
entirely governed by the desire to prove that this valuable
element which constitutes our “ selves ” is 712,9; memory, whatever
else it may be. His argument that we shall live again must,
he sees, prove equally that we have lived before ; and since we
certainly do not now remember our former lives, he recognises,
as we have seen, an improbability that we shall in the future
remember this one. This being so, he must either admit that
what he promises to us is of little value, or else he must
maintain that “memory,” which he cannot promise us, is 392;
the valuable element in personal identity. This latter, there?
fore, he tries to prove; but, having refuted the claims of
memory, he seems to assume at once that there can be no
other candidates, except his “ causal relation,” for the honour
of being what we value in “personal identity,” and what we
mean by it, when we give it “ much meaning.’.’ I think ’he
both grossly underrates the value that is and ought to be set on
memory, and also fails to see what‘other elements'there are for"

i" 5 “Suppose a man,” says Mr. McTaggB-I‘t (P- 40)» “could be
assured that in a short time he would lose for ever all memory

of the past. Would he consider this to be annihilation, and take E213”;- t
' K

 

 




 

»-. .ur urns- - "

n - .-
‘1a-'uv\-.~, ...,..-,n..~.~:. ‘-~r..--

 

.‘3‘

no more interest in the person of similar character who would
occupy his old body than he would in a stranger? Or, would a
man approaching the gate of hell lose all selﬁsh regret for his
position if he was assured that memory, as well as hope, must
be left behind on his entrance? It is not, I think, found that
believers in transmigration are indifferent to their fate after
their next death. And yet they believe, in the majority 'of
cases, that the next death will, for the time at least, break the
chain of memory as completely as the last did ?” Let us grant
that all this is true. Does it prove either that the possession
of memory is not essential to any personal identity, which is to-
have “ much meaning ” for us, or that a causal relation to our?"
selves is the only thing which is essential to this? Surely not ;
and that mainly owing to the very elementary psychological
fact, which we might think Mr. McTaggart had never noticed,
namely, that a man may be fully convinced, in any ordinary
sense of convictionei—may even be ready to die for the truth of .
his opinionf—that acertaiu predicate does pot attach to a certain
subject, and yet whenever he imagines that subject, as he must
do when he is impressed by its desirability, may quite uncon¥
sciously include in it the very predicate, of which both then
and at all other times he is ready to asseverate the absence.
This certainly may be the case with the believer in trans?
migration; and if it even may be, what Mr. McTaggart says,
affords no jot of support for his conclusion. But I am inclined
to believe that it not only may be, but is the case; and in the
hope both of making this opinion plausible, and of throwing
some light on What we really mean by our “ selves,” I will dwell
a little upon the psychological analysis of the supposed cases.

I

‘ ~ 3 A man says,“ It is ac that that devil will be torturing,”and
he at once feels for the sufferer a pang of pity, which would
not be excited in him by.the idea of a very much better man
suffering the same torture. Such an interest certainly is nor?
mally excited, whenever the .‘subject “under discussion is
conceived as “me” or “mine.” But, this being the case, {1533:

 

162

"‘ ,-.....~..,._ “w... . . .

 

 




MR. .McTAGGART’s STUDIES IN. 1-1EGELIAMr.cosMoLoc-1v.=”=- .203» - -

that interest will not cease to be excited, merely because I
have arrived at a reasoned conviction, that “ me ” can only
include something in which I take no interest. Hume was
not prevented from having the same selﬁsh feelings as Mr.
McTaggart by the fact that he believed his self to be quite a
different kind of thing from that which Mr. McTaggart believes
his to be. Let us apply this doctrine to the believer 1n trans;
111igration. Mr. McTaggart grants us that he conceives the
future soul as “his.” That being so its fate will excite the
same emotions which the fate of anything conceived as

”his” normally excites; and even if he has made a wrong
philosophical analysis of what that “his” includes—though
he has, for instance, excluded memory from itTfthis opinion,
however strongly held, will not- prevent him from being
inﬂuenced by elements which really enter into what he
means by “himself,” and which are far more closely associated
in his mind with the word “me ” than any philosophical
deﬁnition can be. A materialist’s opinion that his body is
all that he cares about offers not the slightest evidence that
his soul may not be the almost exclusive object of his attention :
what it is good evidence of is that his powers of analysis are
defective And since the meaning of “ self ” is notoriously one
of the most difﬁcult problems of analysis—so much so that the
ablest intellects have always differed as to its meaning—there
can surely be no reason to think that the common herd, even
of believe1s in transmigration, have succeeded in discovering
what they mean by it—in knowing what it is in the idea of
themselves which really inﬂuences their feelings. If so, when
a Buddhist thinks “ The soul in that animal will be myself, but
it will not remember its present state,” can them be any reason
to suppose that when he imagines it as hmasetf he does not
imagine it as 1emembering his present state? In other words,
that the thought which- is expressed by the ﬁrst half of his
sentence, may ﬂatly contradict that which is expressed by the
second, without causing him the slightest uneasiness?-

 

”Ii

 




 

 

,, 10-1 .. ,. _ ,, , . a?
"1‘ " [mania-fineixiurwiadluwmmmuwwr-2,11% «VJ—“.4” 4“ TC}. E )[001{E; »
l -,’-V'”‘ p-
“ f :‘ x 54L}
.: MW}, bringini
c l ﬁr "-.- 1 m

“i, What, then, do we really think of when we think of our

future selves, or when we try to put the case, “Supposing 1
had been you ? ” Our feelings certainly may be inﬂuenced by
the thought of our body or of our cliacjacter. The importance
of both these considerations is implied by Mr. McTaggart when
he says, in the passage just quoted, “Would he take no more
interest in the person of similar character who would occupy
his ,Qldw body, than he would in any strangcr?” and yet, as we
have seen, he takes no account of the body, in his description
of what gives “meaning ” to personal identity, while he is
mistaken in supposing that similarity of character bllows
from that description. But, after all, neither the nature of
our body nor that of our character is what chieﬂy interests us
in ourselves. This may be plainly seen by considering a case,
which is certainly imaginable, though Mr. McTaggart denies
it to be possible (p. 51), that of an exact double of ourselves,
exactly similar to us both in body and in character. Such a
double, Mr. McTaggart here implies, would, if it were possible,
be the yqac person with ourselves; for, says he, identical
attributes imply identical substance; but it is obviously self:
contradictory to suppose it the same, and hence this conclusion,
if it does follow from Mr. McTaggart’s theory of personal
identity, can only serve to refute that theory. The imaginary
case of a double does, in fact, absolutely refute the theory that
what interests us in our past and future, and makes us
call them ours, is jdcatity of attributes; but I think that
Mr. McTaggart is in this passage unjust to his own theory,
since he appears to confuse identity of attributes with their
continuity, although he has elsewhere explained that continuity
means causal connection, which is quite a different thing. A
double of ourselves, existing simultaneously with ourselves,
could obviously not have to us that causal connection, which,
we agreed, is a necessary condition of personal identity; and
hence the absence of this connection might conceivably be

what we should predicate of it when we called it a different .
«g

T. 1“ ?V‘ E"
t d» \ --. ‘L
3-, ,

c- "i
I
I
No”

 

 




mammmccanr‘s‘ "‘«srvnrrs " IN HEGEL‘IAN '~cos*i\10Locr;”- . 2205

person. It my}; be so, but it certainly would not lie so: the
consideration of this case does, in fact, refute the theory that
either identity or continuity of attributes, or both together, is
what we mean by personal identity.

i We can, in fact, imagine a future series of mental states, which
should be both causally continuous and identical in character
with ours, and which yet should not benwhat we mean by
calling them ours: the hypothesis of a new self like us, coming
into being at some point of time, instead of our present self
continuing, has, in fact, a mgﬂam’ng for us, as Mr. McTaggart
shows by arguing that it is actually impossible. It is, I admit,
actually impossible: such a series of states would, in fact, he
algawhat we mean by ourselves; it would not be a new self:
but that this statement should be signiﬁcant, that we should
understand the proposition that a series of states, both causally
continuous and identical in character with our present self,
would, in fact, be not a new self but our own self, shows
conclusively that what we mean by personal identity is neither
causal continuity nor identity of character, nor both together.
What is it, then, that we do mean ? I can quite well imagine
that a person exactly similar to me, both in body and character,
should now be sitting in that chair opposite to me; and it
is certainly not the mere fact that he is sitting in that chair
and I in this, which causes the profound difference which I feel
between my interest in his fate and in my own. If I have-
certain qualities which I admire, and which others are without,
I may care slightly more for him than for those people, because-
he possesses those qualities, and. I may think that they give
him a better claim to immortality. Only in so far as I give
him this preference can it be supposed that the ,chqrqggcr of
my body and my mind is what interests me in myself; and, in
fact, the preference which I. allow him on this score is extremely
small compared with that which I give to myself over the
same people. . To confess the truth, I feel a‘ positive repugnance w A
to him; and, in any case, my desire for his immortality is- [1012;

 

 

 

 




WW» ,, (‘EHOOPE

immeasurably weaker than my desire for my own. It would

be just the same to my friends in all obvious respects if I were

annihilated at once and he continued to exist; and it would

certainly have the same effegt upon the world at large; and

yet I cannot contemplate this event with the smallest satisém'
faction. Surely, then, what I chieﬂy “piggy; by myself, what is

the object of my self-love, must be that which distinguishes

me from him. .

f It is, in fact, absurd to suppose that that which, when it
exists simultaneously with us, entirely lacks the special and
unique interest for us, which gives meaning to “self,” would,
by the mere fact of a special causal relation to us, acquire
that interest. We do not value our past and future merely
because they are like us and causally connected with us.
What gives meaning to “self” for us is that which dis:
tinguishes our pgegeygt self from any conceivable simultaneous
existent, however like us it might be ; and we value the states
"causally connected with our present self, not because they are
so connected. but because they are states of that which thus
distinguishes our present self: it is this which we mean when
we call them 9393' past and future. The permanent self must,
in any case, be deﬁned as the causal series connected with 92m;
pragent self: our self can only be defined by reference to that
which makes us ourselves gig-5g. This, then, which distinguishes

,9

 

us from any other thing or person at the present moment is
certainly what constitutes the chief element in the meaning
.of self; and this being so, it seems extremely unlikely that,
when we come to think of ourselves as continued in the past
or future, when, in fact, we consider personal identity through
.time, We should mean by that continued self something merely
related causally to our present self. Since “ self” means to us
mainly our pgfegent self, it is almost unavoidable that, when we
think of our self at another position in time, we should mean
our present self at that position; and this seems to me to be
.actually the. case.

 

0a

 

 




M113...smueumrr’s STUDIES IN.» HEGEL-IAN sueosstoLoorii 207..

‘3; 17% 11

AWhat, then, is it which gives this special and unique
interest to our present self ? What is that present self whose
continued existence we desire? In order to answer these
questions, we must, I think, take two distinct points into
account. (1) When we consider our present selves, or are
impressed by their value, we are, of course, self-conscious.
But what we have to note is that this consciousness of our:
selves is an experience completely different in kind from our
consciousness of any other person. We never know any one
else’s consciousness in the same way in which we know our
own, namely, by direct perception. That is to say, the object
of our consciousness, when we are conscious of our self, is not
the same in kind as when we think of any other self; and this
difference in kind is equally great, in spite of complete identity
in character, emotions, or other objects of consciousness. But
(2) we know that every other person is conscious of an exactly
similar object, and each of only one such objectf—himself.
And to know this is to know that our self is, in fact, identical
in kind with every other self. The self which we perceive is
the same in kind with the self which another perceives,
though it is different in kind from any other self which we or
another person think of. That is to say, it does, in fact, differ
,,1L@9?,?k€3?"icall3/ onlyV/from any other self, although its perception
of itself also differs in kind from its thought of any other self.

Putting these two points together, we get the result that

what we value in ourselves is (1) of the kind of that which is
presented to us in self-consciousness, and (2) differs numerically
only from many other beings of the same kind. When, there?
fore, we desire that ourselves should persist in preference to
others, we are desiring that one single instance'of a certain
kind, differing in no respect from other instances, except that
it is one and they are others, should persist in preference to 11%,“

"’92. .
‘n

.__..,‘_. .- .. . . ._._-

 

I 7 ‘. r“,
'2 ’9‘ For some explanation of the meaning. of this term, ggg my paper on
“ Identity,” Proceedings of Artist. Soc, 1900301. 2: ‘s ' ,3
. -_ . 1W.-.“

‘

,f . ,' Mk.

3x .. -,

' " is e‘ f“ -"
i f
\.....-"

w

b’V

 




208 . 1 ‘ G'.”E.”‘MOORE.“=

others: if, we do set a value on our mere numerical difference
from others. But, on the other hand, we do not strongly
desire that this numerically singular self, merely as it is
conceived or thought of, should persist, but as it is actually
perceived; and it is this second point which seems to me to
show the importance of memory in our conception of personal
identity. We must, of course, admit that this unique thing,
having the qualities perceived in it, may continue to exist,
even at times when those qualities are not perceived in it. It
may, too, perceive itself at such future times. But the thought-
of either possibility leaves the imagination cold: we are only
conceiving it when we thus think of it. And this defect is
remedied by memory and by memory only. The only sense in
which we use personal identity with g“ much meaning ”;:—_the
only sense in which we much desire itTis that in which what
is meant by the past or future self hasthe same relation to the
present self, as the present self has to itself. And this relation
is given by memory. When we remember our past states we
have to them the same unique relation which we have to the
present object-self, and when we think of our future self as
remembering our present, it is again not mere thinking, since
we are relating it as subject to the present object-self which is
actually perceived. Of course, we do speak of retaining our
personal identity, without meaning that the future self will
have memory of our present self at every moment; but we feel
hesitation, even in so speaking of it, unless we think of it as
capable of so remembering, as it is in this present life. And by
this capability we do not mean a. mere potentiality: we mean
a very real relation, which does exist between the various
periods of our present life, and which would not exist between
that and such a future life as Mr. McTaggart promises us.
Even when we are remembering no past state, our present
state is one which will probably be remembered, and remem?r
bered along with some other state which it does not now
remember. And when we think of a future state which {205:}
M

 

 

 

 

 

M

 




 

 

P“. 1

1...;

MR. McrAGGAIir’s “ STUDIES IN *IIEGELIAN' cosx'mL'onv.” :30!)

does not remember our present, it will yet probably be one
which remembers some other, which did remember our present,
or which remembered what our present now remembers. Even
if this be not the case, the future state will at least be one
which remembers some other, which in its turn remembers
some other, which in its turn remembers or is remembered by
the present. Such relations of memory may, of course, have
any number of steps. But it seems to me that, however many
the steps, they are very important constituents of our concep?
tion of personal identity. For it must he insisted that each
step involves a relation, which, unlike the causal relation, is
only possible between two states of one person; and that by
a series of such steps every state in our present life is probably
related to our present self in a way in which no state of any
other person ever can be so related.

a To conclude, I will sum up the most important points in
which this theory of what gives “meaning ” to personal
identity, appears to me an improvement onMr. McTaggart’s.

(1) Mr. McTaggart appears to attribute far too much import?

ance to a causal connection between our states or characters, in
the sense in which these, or a combination of them, may be
different in kind from those of other persons, or from one
another. In his own language, he lays in this chapter too

much stress upon the connection of our “ attributes ” as distinl'

guished from our substance. But, in fact, it seems plain that
our present attributes are specially valued by us chieﬂy because
they are ears; and those that are causally connected with

' them, not because of that connection, but partly because of the

indirect connection which they thus obtain with our present
self, and still more because they are related to a past and
future self, which is directly, and apart from them, identical
with ours. Thus the causal connection, on which Mr. McTaggart

" insiSts so much, is only important as giving a partial explana:

tion of how some of our attributes come to he thought 01927.3: it

1‘

l
L.

A
a“

t

i ‘ {a I
' J .

A.

 

 

169

[Q

 




21Clw »'.:~.,,,....1,-;:: a ."‘~m 5-1-1) «13.1.21; 7-? , - "’7" [~i‘ ii";ill-AM}?i'viﬁﬂa'I’G‘: ‘ EIMNETOGII: E.

does not at all explain what we mean by calling them ours.
The relation of the attiibutes and the substance in respe(t of
\alue is that, though the attributes may have some value in
themselves, and the substance perhaps none at all, yet the tuo
together have an immensely greater value than the attributes
by themselves could have; and the attributes can only have
this value, not as being causally connected with an attribute
which has it, but only as being related to the substantial self, in
the same way in which that attribute is related to it. (2) But
Mr. McTaggart does also insist on the necessity of identity of
substance for personal identity; and so far he may be thought
to agree with the view I have proposed. In fact, however, his
View of the substance of the self suffers from a defect which
is due to the same cause as his emphasis of the attributes.
Mr. McTaggart probably emphasises the part played by the
attributes in the notion of self, because he thinks that two
things, if they differ at all, must differ in kind: that this is
the only kind of differenCe is indeed an almost universal
assumption of philosophic tradition. He must, he thinks,
explain the uniqueness of each self, by its having some
attribute which no other self has, since, as a self—vie, in
1espect of its substance—it is identical in kind with every
othe1. Acco1dingly, in the quotation given above he states
that “all substances are absolutely indistinguishable.” This
constitutes a very important difference between his view and
that which I now advocate. I have been compelled to look
for the unique interest which we take in ourselves, not in our
attributes, but in the fact that they are 911333. But this (except
by a vicious circle) can only mean: in the fact that they
belong to our substance. Then, recognising, with Mr. McTaggart,
that “ all substances are absolutely indistinguishable” in kind,
it follows that we are interested in ourselves as distinguished
f1om others, solely because we are capable of taking an interest
in something which differs merely numerically from others,

and on account of its numerical singularity. \Vith regard to ‘:

 

 

 

 

 




 

tameaMefMGGwRTiSM“‘STUD‘IES“"“IN’~“‘“H‘E‘GELI’KN‘”'COSMOLOGY?"" 211 “ "

the justness of this valuation, we must, of course, allow that
we are not really more valuable than others ; but we need not,
therefore, deny that the loss of ourself would be a loss, which
the existence of none other‘could replace. Not to deny this
recognises that mere numerical difference can give a value to
a thing; and this principle, it seems to me, is implied in our
preferential valuation of ourselves. Finally, (3).Mr. McTaggart
does not give suﬁicient consideration to what is meant by the
persistence of an identical substance throughout time. It has
been already pointed out that he does not clearly distinguish
whether the substance, which is ourself, exists timelessly or
throughout time. But waiving this point, and assuming, what
he certainly implies, that the identical self may persist, it must
he insisted (1) that this persistence cannot be regarded as a
mere causal connection between the existence of the self at

one time and its existence at others, and (2) that the mere

existence of the identical self at all times does not seem to be
all that we mean by personal identity, nor what we mainly set
a value on. It seems to me that, if we are to regard a past and
future self as really identical with our selves, we must regard
it not merely as an identical substance with our present selves,
nor as having an unique causal relation to them, but as bound
to them by a relation of self-consciousnessfthe perceptual
relation which we have to our present selves. That such a
relation does exist in our present life I have tried to point
out; and also that Mr. McTaggart’s attempt to convince us
that we do not set much store by it does not prove his point.
Personally I may say that the future life he promises men—
a life in which I should have no memory at all of this lifeTis
to my feeling barely distinguishable from the future existence
of another person.

'53" 3 So much, then, for the ﬁrst of Mr. McTaggart’s cosmological
chapters. I have divided my criticism of it into two parts,

and will now brieﬂy sum up what I have tried t2. prove.
—e—-—2~

 

 




( sermons.

”A

' *5
9r

[,1. Mr. McTaggart tries to prove that Reality consists
exclusively of minds, similar to and including our own. This
proof constitutes what I have called the properly Cosmological
part of the chapter; and its validity is essential to the import?
ance of the other two cosmological chapters, which only try
to decide upon the nature of and relations between these minds,
which alone are real. Obviously they will not be cosmology,
unless it is certain that such minds do constitute the whole of
reality.

5"; But so far from this being certain, I have urged that
Mr. McTaggart has not given us the smallest reason for
thinking it probable. For the proof depends partly upon
an exceedingly long chain of argument (supposed by Mr.
McTaggart to be contained in Hegel’s £0313), of the complete
validity of which nobody ever has or ever will be rationally,
or otherwise, convinced. And, if this were not sufﬁcient to
condemn the conclusion as the idlest supposition, there is
further necessary to the demonstration a false and self:
contradictory theory of the nature of consciousness, and its
relation to its object.

“l” 1. 11. Deals with Immortality. So far as this bears its
ordinary meaning of existence throughout time, I think Mr.
McTaggart should have clearly separated his discussion of it
from Cosmology proper: since he holds that nothing which
exists in time is real, and hence the question Whether we exist
throughout time is merely a question of phenomenologyﬁga
question of what, though certainly'false, “ appears” (to whom?)
to be true. To those, indeed, who hold that what exists in time
is real, this discussion may seem more important than and

y quite as cosmological as the other.

 

,‘JLuJ-‘nuutqau m...

- 5-7-1 ——" $335.73:

'a -m' . ’. mm» A

 

9"1

i \- ,- ‘3‘ . a o ‘ 3'1“”?
,' x, On this head I have urged the followmg pornts :— ,3 .5, C, .
' 'i'YK «m. y ‘

.17 "

.\N
.‘ ’ ‘~

; (1) Mr. McTaggart, though he states the contrary, certainly
implies that he has proved not merely our “ timeless ” or
“ eternal ” existence, but our duration throughout time.

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

MR»::MeWGAR’Eistst‘sMW‘IES‘*‘“"IN"'"‘"HEG'E’LTKN"*“CUS'MOI;O‘GY:"”‘""“"i“2"li3“‘”
/\ (2) He does not see that the two are incompatible; and
since his arguments prove only (if they prove anything) that

2.13709? the one gr the other is true, he certainly has not given
us the smallest reason for supposing that we shall endure
throughout time.

(3) He ascribes to our duration through time several
valuable qualities which his premises (especially that which
deﬁnes the relation between the successive states of the same

person) utterly fail to justify.

,r , (4) He is mistaken in supposing that that which he deﬁnes
as constituting, or as a sign of, personal identity, is what we
really. mean by that word or desire under that name. On the
contrary, he omits from his description of the next life, much
of what makes our continuance in this life really valuable, and

.1 almost everything that makes us desire it.

VI" 1 We are left then with the conviction that we have no

reason to think ourselves immortal even in Mr. McTaggart’s

sense; and that, even if we were, such immortality would,
in all important points, be indistinguishable from the future
existence of other persons, and these, for all that Mr. McTaggart

can tell us, continually worse and worse. i

The two remaining cosmological chapters must now be

dismissed very brieﬂy.

f. l‘ The ﬁrst of these (Chapter III) tries to show that the
Reality, which the last chapter has concluded to be composed
of a number of persons, is not itself also one person; from
which it follows that, since the word God properly denotes
a person, the Absolute, if Mr. McTaggart is right about its
nature, is not God, and also (since the word also denotes a
supreme being) that “ there is no God.” This latter conclusion
depends, of course, upon the correctness of that arrived at in
Chapter II; and we cannot, therefore, allow to it the smallest

.. validity. The chapter can have no direct bearing on the view
we are to take of the nature of reality as a whole or of super?

sensible reality. The most philosophically interesting question w ‘9'": 1:,

.Wh-

’i

 

 

 




2,14 ., . - G E \ioosE

which is relevant to Mr. McTaggart’s argument is the question
whether, and in what sense, one person can be part of another
person. But even with this question Mr. McTaggart does not
deal directly, conﬁning himself to criticising some confused
arguments of Lotze, which are intended to show that it is
the case.
1' . The importance of the conclusions of Chapter IX alsi»
depends mainly upon the validity of Chapter II. If, as 1
have tried to show, there is no reason to think that Reality
is composed exclusively of conscious spirits, Mr. McTaggart’s
view as to how these spirits are related to one another ceases
to have any profound interest. The chief interest of the chapter
lies in its ethical conclusion, that the love of persons for one
another is not only the greatest, but the sole, Good. But this
conclusion Mr. McTaggart does not attempt to prove directly.
He assumes, as a result of the Dialectic, that the Universe is
perfect, and then tries to prove, by a combination of the results
of Chapter II with the Dialectic, that the Universe consists of
loving persons. That such a Universe would be perfect, there-7.77“
fore, only follows as a result from one argument, which is not
given to us, in combination with a further development of
others which we have seen every reason to distrust. This
further development, which consists chieﬂy in a discussion of
the nature of Knowledge and Volition, and of the questions
(-1) whether they can be real; (2) whether they do not
“postulate an ideal which they can never reach as long as
they remain” themselves; (3) whether this ideal is Love is
of considerable interest in itself, but I have not space to discuss
it here.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




.1 3 7

' ‘ "I A.“ a...” m,“ ,_ I, “H ....u a, s.. , .
. - .
-; I

"1" At?» ‘1
' Mn? Mn. McTAGeART’s atoms“ iNLKHEGELIAN «w
\ ”2:! if 3 4"~- E:

man...“ u. » .\J ,5. my
a. ppSMOLOGYer’

._', r“

" i B’V‘tGésEMoom “4

”A“ } , 7., Trfifsﬂbook possesses a combination of merits, which is as rare as x j -4 .. r. 'i
‘ ~ . '1 p, \ ‘ g. .
it IS valuable. Mr. McTaggart attempts to prove to us directly

what are the premises and arguments by which he holds it
to be proved. Theology may give us conclusions even more
deﬁnite and more capable of appealing to the imagination;
but this advantage can only be obtained at the expense either

are wholly arbitrary and accepted on authority. Philosophers,
again, may reason Well from self-evident premises; but they l
can rarely reach a conclusion more deﬁnite than that the world
is “rational and righteous,” and in proportion as their con-T"
clusiqns are important, the evidence for them is apt to be
obscure. -Mr. McTaggart’s reasoning is inferior to none in
ability; his fundamental premises are not arbitrary; his

Sf The question “What is the nature of the Universe 2’” is
directly dealt with only in three chapters%II, on “Human
Immortality”; III, on “The Personality of the Absolute”;
and IX, on “ The Further Determination of the Absolute ”;
and it is only with these three chapters that I propose to deal.
They are in no sense historical, as the title of the book might
Suggest. Their only connection with Hegel, is that Mr.

McTaggart considers Hegel to have discovered the greater [HEM

, My" ’

 




17‘8"” ” ' at. . E MOORE;

part of the arguments on which his conclusions rest, and to
have said nothing inconsistent with those conclusions. But,
whether Mr. McTaggart really agrees with Hegel or not, his
object is to prove, quite independently, that his conclusions are
true; and it may certainly be doubted whether Hegel’s own
work possesses any of the merits which I have attributed to
Mr. McTaggart, except that his premises do not seem to be
arbitrary, so far as their vagueness allows us to judge.

,‘ 1 We have, then, in these three chapters an original attempt
to answer the most important of all philosophical questionsﬁ: ‘ '
the question what exists other than, or in addition to, the
things which form the object of our everyday experience; and
this attempt is executed with a very rare combination of
excellencies. The conclusions at which it arrives may be
brieﬂy summarised as follows :—--~_;. rig; ~< '. m, if inn-‘1 W;-

‘7 .2 Chapter II may be divided into two distinct parts. Only
one of these deals with the question, “What is the nature of
reality ?” And it arrives at the conclusion that reality is
exclusively composed of a plurality of ﬁnite persons, including
ourselves. This argument is presented by Mr. McTaggart
merely as part of the necessary premises for his conclusion
with regard to the express subject of the chapter “Human
Immortality ”; and it is with Human Immortality that the
second part of the chapter deals. Mr. McTaggart, as I shall
try to show, understands Immortality in its ordinary meaning,
though he expressly states the contrary; he means by it the
duration of ourselves throughout time, and not merely, as he
says, eternal or non-temporal existence. This second part,
therefore, differs essentially in the nature of its conclusions
from the ﬁrst. The ﬁrst has proved, if it proves anything, that
we are real, and do not exist in time. This second part, on
the other hand, tries to prove that we do exist throughout

’ time .in the same sense as we exist now, If? according to
Mr. McTaggart, only “ as appearance,”a;vhich, so far as I can
understand it, is equivalent to saying that we do not exist {‘51:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




139

 

' --:..MR.. Mc'racqamgs,,,j§sruniss1NHEGELIANCoSMOLocr"*1 7.9

at all. It is, indeed, obvious that if by “our existence”
he meant but one fact, and that fact be eternal and not
in time, then the conclusion that we exist at any time
at all, let alone “throughout time,” must be false. Mr.
McTaggart would, I suppose, say that the latter conclusion
had a certain “relative truth,” «agarwas truer than to say that
we exist only for a limited period of time; though it is
certainly impossible to explain how that which directly
contradicts an absolute truth can be true in any sense at
all. In any case, this second part of Chapter II deals, on Mr. ,
McTaggart’s View, only with what has been called Pheno: i
menology, and thus differs essentially from the ﬁrst part, to i
which, perhaps, the name Cosmology would be more properly
conﬁned, since it tries to tell us what the world really is, not :
merely what it appears to be. For those, however, who do not ‘
hold Mr. McTaggart’s View that the temporal is unreal, the
question of our immortality may appear quite as important i
as any othef which Mr. McTaggart discusses. Mr. McTaggart’s
conclusions on this subject consist chieﬂy in determining what
is meant by saying that we persist, and in arguing that such
persistence, even though it omits much of what we value now,
has very great value.

0-.

iChapters III and IX complete the determination of the
nature of Reality. III concludes that the plurality of persons, é.
of which Reality consists, cannot walso form one person i;
(a personal God); and IX decides that the sole relation
between these persons consists, not in their knowing, but in
their loving, one another. ' . .
I On what grormds, then, does Mr. McTaggart base these
important conclusions? In the ﬁrst place, he considers it to
have been proved by Hegel’s Logic, or capable of being proved ..
on similar lines, that the whole universe is of such a nature that i
it is 323, each of its parts, besides being the whole of which they i
are. the parts, and that this can only be the case if the whole

 

 

. 1, rum—x: Emaiﬁhﬁ‘fﬁiﬁ‘gﬂﬁi” +L-~ ~

A J

 

 

 

is “ not only in, the individuals, but also for the individuals ”: ,,
...._ W... n
M .15 “

 

w

 




1383) a. EMOOPE

it is in this way that Mr. McTaggart interprets the undoubted
Hegelian doctrine that the universe must combine perfect unity
with perfect differentiation. And to the method by which this
conclusion is reached no valid objection can be raised. It is
expounded and defended at full length in Mr. McTaggart’s earlier
book, b’tudzesm the Hegelz'an Dialectic. Brieﬂy, it is this : Once
assume (what everybody must grant) that the whole universe
has “ being,” it may be shown by a number of steps of rigorous
logical inference, that “being” implies “a whole that is not
only 333, but fgjr each of its parts,” in a sense similar to that in
which 2 + 2 implies 4, so that that which 315, may be inferred
also to be a whole of such a nature, as certainly as a pair of

 

. «. ,~..,. .. -‘, ... l. . . . ,i
" - 4‘ w 3' '..: ...- .-....... .... . . ., -. 4..” 2- 3 3 ‘4 “1 «*~ ~ ~ 3
... ...i...... . ... n3. . . . . . .

 

pairs may be inferred to be a group of four. N ow, that there
33,335,913; be an implication of such a nature cannot be denied;
but what, perhaps not even Mr. McTaggart himself, and
certainly nobody else, can believe is that all its steps have
been exhibited in a perfectly convincing form. Mr. McTaggart
himself has only published the third part of the argument
(#33231, 1897, pp. 164, 342; 1899, p. 35; 1900, p. 145); and
even in that part it would be surprising to hear that anyone,
on a careful examination, could declare that all, if any, of the
steps appeared to possess demonstrative evidence. The ingenuity
displayed in the discussion is indeed quite as great as is usually
displayed by philosophers in proving their most important
theses, and may therefore produce a feeling of probability in
the minds of those who have the amiable disposition to accept
any argument for which they can ﬁnd no distinct refutation;
and there can be no doubt that Mr. McTaggart will be able
to display as much in the two unpublished thirds of the
demonstration. Meanwhile, however, it is certain that no
reasonable person can be blamed for entirely refusing assent to
the conclusion that the universe is a whole, which is not only
333, but for each of its parts.

f3; But‘even if it were proved that the universe is a whole,
which is not only 3n but for each of its'parts, what is the exact 23? ‘3.,,:

 

 

 

yr, ,
A...--..,......,..~..~ v.1“... a .
11 I -.r‘-.r r a.

in”. M3*N’Iﬁ-W"*~H" -w 1 m
....,..< - .- \,.‘, .,.,. ,

,,

 

 

 

 

 

 

3C

 




311;....\,1,<;IAGGARITS».‘F STUDIES“ IN" 'HEGELIA‘N""""CO'S‘MODOGY;'21- 181 .,.

meaning of this assertion ? and does it follow that these parts
are conscious persons lilge ourselves? With regard to the
latter point, Mr. McTaggart expresses a doubt, which, if it were
justiﬁed, would seem to leave no probability at all to his main
conclusionJ—that conscious persons are fundamentally real. He
gives us every complicated argument upon the point, a dis-T“
cussion of which will serve to throw light on the meaning and
validity of the conclusion of the logic.

"'3‘ i The data which Mr. McTaggart gives us are the following:
(1) He considers himself to have proved that we, as conscious
persons, are parts of a whole, which is both in and for each of
us. For two persons to be conscious each both of himself and
of the other, is, he holds, for each to be a part of such a whole.
The validity of this doctrine I shall consider presently: what
I pmpose to discuss now is its relation to two other assertions
of Mr. McTaggart’s. (2) He admits “the possibility of the
existence of other ways in which the whole might be for the
pang-fways at present unimaginable by us ” (p. 20). And
(3) he tries to exclude this possibility by arguing that “our
selves have characteristics which they could 33,916 have, amass ..
they were some of the fundamental diﬂ‘erentiations of reality ”
(pp. 21:26).

5:: 1 Now the combination of these three contentions seems tu
me to involve a very gross confusion. If, as (1) assures us, the
category of the Absolute Ideafthe being a whole which is in
and for each of its partsfdoes apply to two such conscious
persons, what can be the lineaning of the admission that this
category might be realised in other unimaginable ways?
Obviously it can only mean that two such persons, though
they have the relation denoted by the category, may also have
other relations which are related to this, as speciﬁc diﬂ‘erences
are to the genus to which their species belong. The relation of
two such persons is one species, falling under the genus denoted
by the category; and Mr. McTaggart only tells. us in (2) that
there may be inﬁnite other species falling under the same genus. L

“-
13"

 




1 . _ . 11.... ,',a _. ' 1 _
. 1 . 1 ._ r. , .WM 9111.. . -«

But now let us consider (3). Mr. McTaggart’s argument to show

that “ our selves have characteristics which they could 719; have,

unless they were’ ’parts of the Absolute, depends upon two
premises—L) (which he tries to prove at some length) that
the nature of our selves is in a certain respect “parodoxical”;
(b) that they have a high degree of reality No paradox, he
holds, can be reasonably considered true, unless it can be
deduced by a process such as the dialectic. But to admit
that our selves have a high degree of reality is to admit that
they have a high degree of truth; and hence, he concludes,
them is a great probability, until the paradoxical nature of the
self is deduced in some other way, that this paradox is the very
one which has been deduced by the dialectic. Surely this
result should appear surprising! For we have it laid down
already in (1) that the very identical paradox, which has been
deduced by the dialectic, is exhibited in our selves! If the
Qegrlﬁc way in which the self exhibits that paradox, is also
itself paradoxical, and if this second paradox is what is meant
by “the paradox of the self,” it is obvious that the paradox
of the self cannot possibly be that which is deduced by the
dialectic, and Mr. McTaggart’s argument is an attempt to
prove a contradiction—that what is ca: hypot/usz a species, is
identical with its own genus. If, on the other hand, the
“paradox of the self” is the generic paradox, we know already
that this has been deduced by the dialectic, and the whole
aigument is perfectly needless. In fact, the conclusion of the
argument, “that the paradox of the self is probably identical
with the category,” is in ﬂat contradiction with the admission
that there may possibly be other unimaginable ways in which
the category is realised. If the paradox is even probably
identical with the category, it cannot possibly be speciﬁcally
different from it. Mr. McTaggart’s argument cannot possibly
prove that any spegz'ﬁc paradox of the self is the paradox
deduced in the dialectic; and sincg this is impossible, it can
only prove over again, this time as a probable conclusion, what E is 3.3}

 

 

 

 




1433

“Mierrawmoewnrs,is...swat-as 113W'H’EGELIANavGOS.-MOLOGY‘." , M183 ,

was before proved as a certain oneé—that the self does exhibit
the paradox deduced in the dialectic. Mr. McTaggart’s contain
ception of the relation of the self to the category seems
therefore to be grossly confused. And it is easy to see
where the source of the confusion lies. Mr. McTaggart has
never precisely conceived what is meant by the category “a
whole which is in and for each of its parts.” He talks, for
instance, of the word “ in ” being used in different senses, but
he does not discriminate these senses from one another. Had
he conceived precisely the meaning of the category, it would i
have been plain on immediate inspection whether the relation
meant by it was or was not identical with that of two selves,
eachvconscious of itself and of the other. As it is, he leaves us
uncertain, when he tells us that the category does apply to two i
such selves, whether the relation denoted by the category is
; actually discernible as uniting those selves, or whether it is
i only the wig used‘in the category which will also apply to
a relation, not only speciﬁcally, but utterly diﬁ‘erent, which is
discernible as uniting the selves. Similarly, when he talks of
the “ other unimaginable ways,” he does not determine precisely 3
whether all these “ways ” have in common some perfectly i
deﬁnite relation, and what that relation is ; or whether, perhaps, ;
they are completely different forms of relation, which have no

real community, are not species of one genus, but are only .;
united by the fact that the same words “in and for ” will apply
to all of them. It seems, in fact, that when Mr. McTaggart
speaks of these other possible ways, he does not really conceive
them as species under the one gentis of the category, but as
having nothing whatever in common with one another. But, 15,
if this be so, then his assertion that the category does apply to if
selves can only mean that the gquds of the category apply to» ,
them, their relation has not really anything in common with

these other “ unimaginable ” relations. In that, case, plainly

his whole argument for the reality of our selves falls to pieces.

If, on the other hand, we are to understand that our selves, ‘;W
K

 

 

 

 




=1 x‘, r“, “am. My , . . ' )3: ”1."; ,' . 1‘s. ,. i "< V,"
1%» .. ~ -- - ~ G. E. moons. .

while really exhibiting the relation meant by the category, also
exhibit speciﬁc differences, Mr. McTaggart has said nothing
even tending to show that these speciﬁc differences will be
preserved in the Absolute; but, on the other hand, it follows
at once that our selves, so fat); as they exhibit the generic
relation, are real, since it is assumed throughout that that to
which the Absolute Idea does apply, is, so far as it applies,
completely real. But, in fact, Mr. McTaggart does not seem
to conceive the paradox of the self as thus speciﬁcally different
from the category. He never anywhere attempts to discriminate
what in the relations of selves is identical with the relation
denoted by the category, and what is not. He only gives us
one clearly deﬁned paradox of the self, Without attempting to
point out in it a generic and a speciﬁc element. Finally, he
never attempts to discriminate the meaning which he attaches
to the category from that which he attaches to the paradox
of the self. I conclude, therefore, that the relation between
selves, which he deﬁnes at some length, is, in fact, the only
and veritable relation denoted by the category; and that
Mr. McTaggart appears to distinguish them, only owing to
the confusion just exhibited. At all events, I have shown
that if they are not identical, Mr. McTaggart has not a shadow
of ground “for his conclusion that our selves are “fundamental
differentiation of reality.” We thus, at last, get a clear
conception of the meaning of “a whole which is both in and
for each of its parts.” It means a whole which has the relations
to its parts which Mr. Mc’l‘aggart describes as belonging to two
selves, each conscious of itself and of the other. And it is
certain that, if the dialectic is valid, and if, also, the nature
of consciousness is such as Mr. McTaggart conceives, the
Absolute is exclusively composed of conscious persons. But
we have seen already that we have no reason to suppose the
‘ dialectic valid; and this conclusion is reinforced by the new
fact, just discovered, that Mr. McTaggart himself does not seem
to have conceived clearly (he seems even tonconceive merely as

 

 

.‘la 4'
\ pig? .

lmli'

r“ ’ ’
flu

 




p-
a.
as

 

MR. .MCTAGGART’S f‘. STUDIES uIN- HEGELI'AN’*-“€OS~MOLOGY.‘33~”-‘~*~"‘~l*8‘5

a form of words) the relation which he is bound to deduce by

/ a stringent logical process. And, on the other hand, we shall
now proceed to see that Mr. McTaggart entirely misconceives
the nature of consciousness. Even if he could prove strictly
that the relation, which he holds to be exempliﬁed in conscious-,7
ness, fully expressed the nature of reality, we must still maintain
that this relation is ”not exempliﬁed in consciousness.

'“ '1 Mr. McTaggart’s theory is, that when I know my friend, he
is simultaneously both inside and outside my mind: this, he
thinks, is the relation in which consciousness always stands to
its object. It is owing to this that a universe of conscious ;
selves, each of which knew all about the others, would conform . l:
to his “category”: such a universe would be a whole which
not only contained all its parts, but was itself contained in each
of them. Th'w contradiction (for it certainly seems to be one)
might of itself be thought sufﬁcient to condemn the theory of
knowledge from which it follows; but let us examine a little

. further into the account which Mr. McTaggart gives of that. ..
‘ theory. He at ﬁrst identiﬁes my friend inside me with my
“representation,” “ reproduction,” or “ image” of my friend; and
since he insists besides on distinguishing between this image ‘31;
and the original (p. 21), it would at ﬁrst seem that my one

_ friend, when I know him, becomes necessarily two, one inside

; A me3the other outside. But later on it appears Mr. McTaggart

" " prefers to say that it is one and the same friend, who is

both inside and outside me. This again seems a ﬂat contra:
diction; but, waiving that objection, let us consider whether

it is a true and necessary account of the relation of conscious:

ness to its object. Consciousness of a thing does not, I
presume, mean nothing but having that thing both inside and
outside my mind. Even though it be true that this relation of

the thing to me is involved in my‘ consciousness of it, some:
thing else is surely involved toogfsomething quite unique,
which we all of us recognise, and which is what we mainly

think of when we talk of knowing. I‘do not know that r

 

 

 

 

 

is!!! 1-” I

401:3an mum“. ‘

_ 4, .‘.“‘-‘:.‘T'31"J e21:-

 

 

I‘f’o

 




1'86 ' * :aw w ,, «MG. "“E; DIOORE. 'l i

Mr. McTaggart would dispute this; at all events, it is true.
And I think perhaps the falsity of Mr. McTaggart’s view can
be most convincingly exhibited by showing that when he says
that that of which I am conscious is both inside and outside my
mind, he is compelled either to deﬁne this unique thing which
we mainly mean by our consciousness of a thing as meaning in
every case both itself and something else (a deﬁnition which
combines the merit of self contradiction with that of circularity),
or else to deny its existence altogether. Which horn of this
dilemma Mr. McTaggart is compelled to take he again does not
allow us to decide: it depends whether the inside and outside
objects, or (to take the second alternative which he gives us),
the inside and outside aspects of one and the same object,
which he maintains to be necessary to consciousness, are them;
selves to be regarded, one or both of them, as objects of
consciousness; or whether neither is so. His language will
support either alternative, and both are equally fatal to his
theory. In the ﬁrst case (1) he analyses my knowledge of
my friend into either (a) my knowledge of him, as outside me.
together with his presence inside me, a deﬁnition which is
obviously both circular and contradictory, as if one were to
say “2” @ow “ 2 1+; 1;” or ((3) my knowledge of him, as

 

outside me, together with my knowledge of him, as inside me,
to which the same objections apply, as if one were to say
“ 2” meaas “2 4+, 2.” In the second case (2) knowledge
£915s_§s§s' in the mere existence of one and the same thing
both inside and outside me, or in the existence of two similar
objects one inside and outside, which obliterates what we know
and mean by knowledge as entirely as if one were to say that
the reﬂection of an object in a looking-glass were a case of
consciousness of an object. And what ground has Mr. McTagf‘
gart for maintaining these absurdities? None but the bare

question, which he seems to regard as a knock-down argument:
“How can (my friend) be an object of my consciousness unless
he is also inside me?” The answer to this question is. the A

in.

r“ r? we
é

,\ ‘

 




1.1111111. Mc'ercAtrs 1“ STUDIES IN HEGELIAN COS\IOLOG\'"” 181-7

simple one, “Quite easily” it being a fact that we can be

7
conscious bot/1, of our own states and of what is outside us—
:1 fact in which theie is no difﬁculty at all, unless we assume
that the relation of consciousness to its object is not merely,
what it must in any case be admitted to be, a unique relation,
but 1111131 also be a relation of whole to part. In fact that
what I am conscious of 1111131 be inside my mind is a mere
traditional assumption for which there are no reasons, and
which, in the sense in which it is intended, 11:1, as a deﬁnition
of consciousness, necessarily leads to the absurdities above

detailed. It is commonly supposed, as it was by Berkeley,

to be obvious to direct inspection that what I know is always
in my mind; whereas the only thing which really is thus
obvious, is that my consciousness of the thing is so. The
history of philowphy exhibits a uniform inability to distinguish
between that of which I am conscious and my consciousness of
it—an inability which has found a monument in the word
“ idea” which regularly stands for both. The doctrine that
when I am conscious of a thing there must always be an
image of it in my mind owes its plausibility to the neglect of
this simple distinction The existence of this image of the
thing is identiﬁed with my consciousness of it; whereas it is
immediately plain that, even if, when I am conscious of a
thing, the1e is an image of it in my mind, this image must
exist 111 111111111011. to my consciousness, and can form no part of
its deﬁnition, since I must always be supposed to be conscious,
in a sense 1101 merely equivalent to the existence of an image
in me, either of the image itself, or of the thing, or (as
Mr. McTaggait seems to prefer) of both.
~13»! The ﬁrst proposition of Mr. McTaggart’s Cosmology then— I
that the universe consists solely of conscious persons—4s
entiiel) dependent on these two premises: (1) An incomplete
and doubtful chain of 1easo11ing, which, 1f complete and
exident, would show that the universe was self—co11t1adi1tory,
as being a whole which was also a part of ,each of its pa1ts;

it

 




188 .. ,_ , » . o. E. MOORE.

(2) a manifestly false, and also self-contradictory, statement
that that of which I am conscious is always both a part and
not a part of me. It is plain, then, that he has given us no
reason to believe his ﬁrst proposition; and yet his attempt to
establish it must be allowed to have the highest philosophic
merit. It has the merit of being an excellent reduct‘i‘o' (.“l.
absurdum of all attempts to construct what Mr. McTaggart
wouldcall an “ Idealism,” La, any philosophy which maintains
that the universe is wholly “ spiritual ” and perfectly good.
It is qualiﬁed to perform this useful service by the fact that,
Whereas its arguments are quite as good as any that are
commonly offered, they and their premises are stated in so
exceptionally clear a form that their complete impotence may
be easily exposed. '

‘, 2 So much for what I have ventured to call the Qosmological .
conclusion of Chapter II. I now turn to the express subject
of that chapterTeHuman Immortality. An essential step in
Mr. McTaggart’s proof of our Immortality is, as has been said,
the above-considered argument that we are “fundamental
diﬁ‘erentiations of the Absolute.” The insufficiency of this

‘ accordingly wrecks the argument.

3 But a second step is essential: granted (what he has thus
failed to prove) that we are “fundamental differentiations of
the Absolute,” Mr. MoTaggart goes on to argue that, being
such, we must be “eternal.” Now what does this mean?
Mr. McTaggart distinctly states (p. 8) that he will only prove
us to have a “timeless existence.” Yet, when he comes to
defend his View, that we are immortal, against Mr. Bradley,
we ﬁnd him assuming that the view he is defending is that
we shall, in the future, have “ another chance”; that “a
duration indeﬁnitely prolonged” would be more satisfactory
than the space of a single life (p. 44). And similarly, in his
argument against Lotze, though he only calls it a PTQMUQ,
hypothesis that “the whole of reality, in itself timeless, is
manifested throughout the 'whole of time,” he seems to consider D t? ‘.

 

 




 

mmmmeaamlsWarsawms==va""iIEtiiitiAx i'c‘os'MoLocv.” 189

this probability as only necessary to establish our pie-existence
as “ a fair inference,” not as throwing doubt on the “ indeﬁnite
prolongation“ of our existence in the future. In fact, it seems
undeniable that throughout Mr. McTaggart’s discussion of the
palm, of Immortality, and of the nature of the personal identity
possessed by the immortal self, he is assuming that Immortality
‘nieans an indeﬁnite prolongation of our existence in time;
although he has distinctly stated that he will mean by it only
a timeless existence, and though he nowhere expressly argues
that a timeless existence involves such indeﬁnite existence in
‘ time, This confusion as to the nature of the Immortality to be
proved, is betrayed in the proof itself. The proof is directed
to showing that we can neither change nOr perish. But change
is said (p. 27) to involve that what changes should at one time ,
have a different predicate from that which it has at another;
and we may assume that similarly “perishing ” involves existing
at one time and not at another. If so, then to prove that
a thing does not change and perish is to prove either that it
has the same predicate and itself exists gt,,_al.l times, or that
it has no predicate, and does not exist at any time: such a
proof cannot establish IBIKWE of these two is the true con-e
clusion, and Mr. McTaggart has not therefore established that
our existence is “timeless.” On the other hand, he seems to-
assume that both we and the Absolute do exist, and have.
predicates gjm§9jine time, whence it follows that he has proved
our duration throng/tout time, and also (we may add) that our
existence is 9iqtr,timeless, for though Mr. McTaggart obviously
assumes thatlto exist timelessly and to exist throughout time-
are at least 'ggﬂipat-iblejhi‘tve must (till further informed) regard ’

‘\ \
AL

 

i H :f/‘They are in fact compatible in a sense ; but the existence in time
' cannot be the same thing as the existence out of time, and since, in
speaking of one and the same géiect, we usually include its existence in
its notion, it is a contradiction to aﬂirni that an object existing in time
also exists timelessly. The same defence applies to my statement made
on p. 186, that “one and the same person is both inside and outside-

me ” is self«contradictory. “

 

i
\
i .
. " ‘\.4a ‘

 




190’ -~ . i1. .11.,4110911E.

it as a contradiction to afﬁrm that one and the same thing both
does and does not exist in time; and we can only understand
“timeless” existence to mean an existence which is not in
time. This contradiction is, indeed, of a piece with his former
contention that the object of knowledge is both inside and not
inside the knower; and it is explained by the fact that he
constantly identiﬁes, without attempting to justify himself,
the “ parts” or “ fundamental diﬁ’erentiations ” of the Absolute
with the mamfestatwn of those parts in time (e.g., p. 48). To
sum up: Even if we admit this self-contradictory identiﬁca-
tion, Mr. McTaggart’s proof that this “manifestation of self ”
cannot change or perish, only proves that it is either timeless
()9 existing th1oughout time, and whereas he says he wished
to prove the former, he seems to assume both, ﬁrst a premiss
which could only prove the lattel, and then ﬁnally that he
actually has proved the latter. But when freed from these
contradictions and inconsistencies we take it Mr. McTaggart’s
view is this: (1) Our real self is timeless, glen does not exist in
time; (2) that manifestation of it which we call our self will
certainly (?) have an indeﬁnite prolongation in the future, and
probably had one in the past. To establish these two conclu+"
sions Mr. McTag gart gives us but one argument (pp. 26—34):
What are we to say of its validity ? That it certainly does not
establish the former, since to deny change only proves either
timelessness or duration, but also was not needed to do so:
for if we are fundamental ‘differentiations of the Absolute
(as we have no reason to think) it seems to follow at once
that we do not exist in time since (this we understand to
be a premise) time is unreal. But does it establish the
existence of our manifestation throughout time ? It does
not even attempt to do so, since it is concerned with
the impossibility that our goal selves should change 01
perish, which, not existing in time, they certainly cannot
do. And we can see no argument which would, since there

seems no reason why the “ maniftstation ” of an eternal ‘15“

 




.. MR: Memesarsris... ~,‘.‘..S.'FU.DIES “'Dfl‘TIEGELiXN ’ Co'stioL’oCYf" ‘1 9 1

part of the Absolute, since it is temporal, should not he

also tempm‘ary.
1" l But Mr. McTaggart, as has been said, is not only concerned

in this chapter with establishing a probability or certainty that

our existence will be prolonged after death, he also discusses

the question how much of what we now call “ ourselves ” may

be expected to persist, and the value which may be ascribed to

such persistence. With regard to the ﬁrst point, he argues that

since our pre—existence is probable (he gives no reason why it

should not be as certain as that in the future), and yet we

certainly do not remember~ our past lives, there is no reason

to suppose that we shall in our future lives remember this

one. What then will constitute our personal identity ?

Mr. McTaggart maintains that what constitutes it is “identity t
of substance,” from which there also follows an identity of
attributes. With regard to this identical substance I shall say
more presently. Here I need only remark that it seems to be
conceived as identical with the timeless self, 33:» as not existing
in time, although in order to constitute our identity it must
obviously be something which exists in and through time. This
remark applies to the attributes also, but with regard to these
Mr. McTaggart gives us another piece of information, which has
a far more important bearing on the nature and value of
' immortality, namely, that their persistence is compatible with
the loss of any or all of the qualities which we actually observe
in ourselves or others ; we need have identical attributes in the
next life, only in the sense in which a man who has been
honourable and is become a scoundrel has them at both times
in this (p. 38). Apart, therefore, from our substance and these 1,,
permanent (or timeless) attributes, the bond of identity which .

connects our present with our future—selvesis- no more than - '- .- fl
. . . . "i
that which connects a manfs past Virtues With his present

“ Identity of attributes,” he says,“ must reveal itself in time as I

l
iii
.. vices; and this Mr. McTaggart holds to be a causal relation. ll
an ordered succession of changes of which each determines :" q 33

 




.192, ., G. E. MOORE.

the next. So that, admitting that personal identity lay in
identity of substance, our way of determining whether two
' states belonged to the same person would be to endeavour to
trace a causal relation between them ” (p. 40). It is, therefore,
a succession of states, causally connected with those which we
call ours in this life, that will constitute our future lives; and
only in proportion as the future existence of a series so con:
nected with our present selves seems satisfactory, shall we have
reason to prize the hope of immortality which Mr. McTaggalt
offers to us. Now in trying to make it seem satisfactory we
think that Mr. McTaggart goes beyond his data in three
respects :——-(1) He admits that our states are causally connected,
not only with one another, but also, both as causes and effects,
with our “ circumstances,” and the states of other people; and
he does not explain in what way the causal connection between
our states, which shows them to be ours, differs from that which
may subsist between them and those of other people. Now I
do not wish to deny that there is some such special causal
connection between the states of each of us—a connection
which may serve to deﬁne the life of each as a unique series;
but it seems to me that, so long as we do not hold with Leibniz
that each series is wholly independent of the rest, we cannot
deny that in the case of two states of the same man, separated,
say, by an interval of 40 years, the earlier of the two may have
had far less inﬂuence upon the nature of the second than the
cumulative effect of external causes. If this be so, the inﬂuence
of our past upon our present character may, in the course of
time, become inﬁnitesimal, even if it does not vanish altogether ;
it will no doubt have had its effect upon the univerSe, but the
main part, if not the whole of that effect, may now consist in
the states of others, and conversely our present state may be,
mainly due to the past states of others. That this 7399?! be so,
at all events, Mr. McTaggart gives us no reason for‘i'denying:
nor can it be denied, if we both distinguish (as he does) 0111
own state at anyg Given moment, as a different effect and cause [1". ‘

a.

 




 

\u tier-seemrfs ‘5’ SSEUDIES; .IN HEGELIAN zeosmommn" 193 ~

from the states of others at that moment, and allow that our
states and those of others have in the past and will in the future
interact. Moreover, it certainly seems that such things do
happen, 31%, to take his own instance (p. 54), “ when a personal
relation has existed for many years, many of the events which
formed its temporal contentf .5}; .: a“ fare completely forgotten.
But we do not regard them as lost, for we recognise that each
of them has done its part in moulding the relationship
which exists at presentilif. :‘ii As factors of disposii
tion, they are all permanently real.” Certainly we may
admit, that our present relation to a person in this life
could not have been altogether what it is, unless our
past relations had been what they were: but can it be
denied that our present relation may in the main be
due to quite other circumstances, 6.9., to long familiarity with
someone of a very different character? Nothing seems more
certain, ggupz'rically, than that the effect upon us of a personal
relationship, in the past, may in time become not only different
from, but very much smaller in degree than, what it once was:
and it must be remembered that we are here speaking of
attributes that are Empiﬁcally observable and subject to change,
not of those others which Mr. McTaggart tells us are absolutely
permanent and always the same. In short, even though “ each
event” has done “its part” in moulding our present relation,-
ships, “its part ” in moulding that present may be very much
smaller than was its part in moulding a part nearer in time to
the original event. We think, therefore, that Mr. McTaggaIt
misleads us seriously when he says, on the ground of this
causal relation, “It is certain that whatever modiﬁcations in
(the self’s) nature took place in one life would be reproduced
in the next” (p. 50). For there may, in spite of such causal
relation, remain in us, after a time, scarcely any attribute that
can be regarded as an effect of relationships which, when they
existed, affected, in the most important manner, almost the
whole of our mental life. But, further, (2) the assurance last L \‘i‘i:
' ‘6 2i.”/

 




I‘M-w» W M: We E. MQQRE

quoted actually denies the fact that even if a thing’s effects
persist, it need not itself be reproduced. Mr. McTaggart
seems here to have forgotten completely that an effect does not
always resemble its cause, either in quality or in value; so that,
even if our state in a far future were far more largely deter:

mined by our present relationships than we have any reason to

expect, it would not follow that it had any similarity to, or

retained the value of, those relationships. Mr. McTaggart

himself later on (p. 53) recognises that the reproduction of a

cause does not follow from the persistence of its effects, and in

order to establish the probability of the former he now appeals

to a second principle, the assumption of which is the third

point in which he appears to go beyond his data. (3) This

piinciple is that there must be “ development " in time—
development “towards an end according to ﬁnal causality”
(.p 50).“ All change in time,” he says, “for the individual as
well as for the universe, must be taken as ultimately deter?
mined by the end of developing as a series the full content of
the timeless reality.” Now, by such development it is plain
that on p. 54, where the principle is appealed to, Mr.

McTagg 0'art understands the addition in the future of new
valuable attributes to the old ones which persist. “ Develop-T
ment,” then, means “ progress,” and we are rather surprised to
ﬁnd here assumed as if certain, what on p. 44 was only called
(without reason given) “the more probable conclusion’ —
namely, that “progress is as real as the imperfection for the
1emoval of which it is needed.” Mr. McTaggart then makes
two distinct assumptions, for neither of which do we ﬁnd that
he has given or can give any reasons: (a) He seems to assume
as a certainty “ that every addition to the series of temporal
events must make that series a more complete manifestation of
the timeless reality.” Now we understand that the timeless
reality itself is absolutely perfect, and therefore that no
manifestation whatever can constitute; any addition to the .
perfection of the universe; and this being so, it is plain that $9.33

a“

 

 

 




t
humaMcra¢i.GAirrLsaasmgm Es~-*‘1'N'HE:ti‘t’i‘xxmo'sno roar!“ ~195-

a more complete manifestation (though, as Mr. McTaggart
might say, better 9.13 a manifestation) is not one whit better
absolutely than any other. Yet we can only understand that
“angst” make and “end according to ﬁnal causality” as
meaning that a complete manifestation of the timeless reality
is demanded by the perfection of the universef—ia, we must
assume that every addition to the series of temporal events
makes it a more complete manifestation, solely because a more
complete manifestation will make the universe more perfect
than a less complete one. It is, in fact, impossible for any
philosophy which, like Mr. McTaggart’s, distinguishes between
a perfect timeless Reality and its manifestations or Appearance
in time, consistently to ascribe any value whatever to the
existence of anything in time; and that for two cogent reasons:
(1) that it must maintain that nothing does really exist in
time, and (2) that it cannot hold that the existence of anything
in time can make any difference whatever to the perfection of
the universe. Even if it allowed that things really existed in
time, it could not allow any real value to such existence; and
as it is, its whole Ethics must consist in ascribing a value,
which they cannot have, to things which do not exist. Thus,
in considering his Immortality, Mr. McTaggart plainly judges
that it is better that he should exist at certain future moments
than that he should not. But if, as he also maintains, that
which exists timelessly is, in itself, absolutely perfect, then
all possible good is realised by the timeless existence of the
Absolute, and that one thing rather than another should also
exist in time cannot be any good whatever. Mr. McTaggart’s
Ethics, then, necessarily contradict his Cosmology. But it
may be held that his Cosmology is here in fault; that we
may really be immortal, and that the Universe. will be more -
or less perfect according as -we are so or are not. And
hence it is worth while to consider Mr. McTaggart’s con-T"
ception of the value of an Immortality, which will be the
same in nature, whether it be held to be“real or unreal. _‘
+2—

 

 

 

 

 




