Anti -Viviseetion Admissions

and Recommendations in the

Beport of the Royal Commis-
' sion on Viiisection.

 

 

 

Issued March 12th, 1912.

The following . quotations are taken» from the
Report signed by all the Commissioners :———~

JUSTIFICATION 0F MORAL PRINCIPLE.

“We strongly hold that limits should be
placed to animal suffering in the search for
physiological or pathological knowledge,
though some have contended that such considerations;
should be wholly subordinated to the claims of scientiﬁc-
research, or the pursuit of some material good to man.”
(Page 57.)

This statement implies the acknowledgment that“;
the ethical claims made by anti-Vivisecticnists, and
to the persistency of which the appointment of two
Royal Commissions is due, have been found justiﬁable.
It further shows that the demands for complete freedom
from the restraint of any ethical considerations which
have been made by certain Vivisectcrs have been found.
unjustiﬁable.

PAIN AND $UFFERING CAUSED BY INOGULATION8..
(Under Certiﬁcate A.) *

Defenders of ViVisection have stated that so-called.

pin-prick experiments cause no pain to animals. The

anti—Vivisection agitation has been ridiculed on account
of the opposition to inoculation experiments which

 

 




 

2

comprise 95 per cent. of experiments in this country.
On this subject the Commission reports: “ Inoculations
of animals with morbid products may in some cases
be followed by negative. results, and in others occasion
but little pain and even discomfort. On the other hand
there are cases in which, according to Dr. Thanefi ‘the
injection is followed by great pain and
suffering’; and he instanced the infection
of rats and guinea-pigs with tetanus or with
plague, and also the injection of certain
drugs. Sir James Russell‘r also-cited cases and
called attention to the fact that under Certiﬁcate A the
experimenter is not required by the Statute to kill his
animal at the end of the experiment, as he is in the
case of experiments under Certiﬁcate B, as soon as the
bjeCt thereof has been attained. It has also been
stated that inoculation of a dog with the blood of a
mule suffering from trypanosomiasis caused rapid
emaciation, drOpsy, and inflammation of the; eyes. . . .
Dr. Klein inoculated the eyes of cats with diphtheritic
‘membrane. Ulceration and swelling of the corneas
resulted in the courseof several days in the case of
some of the cats, and it was contended that such
experiments must have been very painful (page 51).”
The Commission adds: “It is also clear that, even if
the initial procedure in cases under that ( fiﬁcate
Certiﬁcate A) may be regarded as trivial, the subsequent
results of this procedure must in some cases, at
any rate, be productive of great pain and
much suffering ” (page 52). The Commission further
states: “It must not be forgotten that it is in
the case of diseases which are naturally
painful, when they attack men or animals,
that experiments are most likely to involve
:‘pain to animals which are experimentally
injected; as examples we may instance
cancer, cholera, plague, tetanus, rabies, and
snake bite.”

These conclusions give the lie direct to the assur-
ances of the painlessness of inoculations which are

 

* Dr. Thane is Chief Inspector under the Vivisection Act.
1* Sir James Russell is Assistant Inspector under the same Act.

 

 

 




l Imadegb-y the defenders of vivisection, and which are
-;circulated in letters to the Press and by means of
_ leaﬂets Which are distributed in the streets.

PAIN AND SUFFERING IN ANIMALS WHICH, ARE
4 ' KEPT ALIVE AFTER OPERATIONS.

if ‘ (Certiﬁcate B.)

7' ‘ Anti—vivisectionists have continually pointed out
that great cruelty is legally permissible under the
“present Act under Certiﬁcate B, Which permits a
vivisector to operate again and again on the same
animal. The well-known case of the thrice-vivisected
”Brown Dog showed to what length vivisectors will go
in the matter of repeated vivisections of one animal.
The Commissionhas found it necessary to admit the
truth of these contentions in the following statement :——-
1 “. . . . there are other experiments performed under
‘ Certiﬁcates B and B+EE (cats and dogs) or B+F
l (horse, ass or mule), in which the animal is allowed to
recover from the initial operation under an anaesthetic,
and is submitted to a second operation, or a ﬁstula is
established, or some organ removed, and the subsequent
effect of these operations observed. In such cases the
primary operation is perfOrmed under aseptic precau-
tions, and it is alleged that no considerable amount of
suffering resultstherefrom. Dr. Thane hesitated to
give a general statement as to the degree of pain conse—
quent on such procedures; the animal may be
very ill, suffer from severe shock, and a fatal
result may sooner or later ensue, yet he thinks
there may be no acute pain.”

 

 

Anti-vivisectionists have repeatedly pointed out
that under the present law there is no legal obligation on
the part of a vivisector to kill an animal which, is
suffering great pain after an operation, and that he is
~,, allowed to keep it alive until the object of his experi-
‘ ment has been attained. The Commission now admits
this. The Report states: “The animal need not
be killed though in considerable pain—con-
siderable and likely to endure—if the main

 

 

 




 

4

result has not been attained. Thus oﬂicial
sanction is given in terms to keeping an
animal alive for an indeﬁnite time, though
suffering considerable pain, at the sole discre-
tion of the operator.”

The Commission therefore recommends :-—-

1. “ That an inspector should have power to
order the painless destruction of any animal which,
having been the subject of any experiment, shows signs
of obvious suffering or considerable pain, even though
the object of the experiment may not have been
attained”; and

“That in allcases in which, in the opinion of the
experimenter, the animal is suffering severe pain which
is likely to endure it shall be his duty to cause its pain-
less death, even though the object of the experiment
has not been attained.”

This is a very important concession, for hitherto
the pain and suffering of the animal has been entirely
subservient to the object of the experiment. The Com-
missioners recommend that the above conditions should
be attached to certiﬁcates granted to vivisectors; the
Reservation Memorandum signed by Colonel Lockwood,
Sir William Collins, and Dr. Wilson, asks for a more
strict enforcement of these recommendations. It
recommends the insertion in the Act of a requirement
upon all experimenters in every case, in which obvious
suffering has supervened, painlessly to destroy the
animal. These Commissioners state, “We cannot
contemplate the sanction of any such procedure in
which either an animal is knowingly and intentionally
to be kept for an undeﬁned period in severe suffering,
if the experimenter thinks (perhaps erroneously) that
such endurance will not be prolonged, or in which he
is authorised to allow the severe pain to continue in the
problematical expectation that some result may accrue.
We are unaware of any weighty evidence which justiﬁes
such recommendations ..... We therefore recoil from
the suggestion that an experimenter should
be authorised to protract the life of an
animal in obvious suffering, or which exhibits
signs even of severe pain.” : .

 

c- __;.;~_-; .—

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

5 ' . J
on. PEMBREY AND 1111. KLEIN :7..—

Dr. E. E. Kleingave evidence before the Royal
Commission on Vivisection of 1875. He stated in reply
to a question that he had no regard for the="<s1'1ffer-

.ings of animals. Anti—vivisectionists have repeatedly

protested against the. granting of a licence and certiﬁ- '
cates to Dr. Klein, who has never retracted his views.
He has for a number 0f years been employed as
Bacteriologist to the Local Government Board, and he
has held a certiﬁcate permitting him to experiment
without anaesthetics. Dr. Pembrey, Lecturer on
Physiology at Guy’s Hospital, gave evidence in 1907
before the last Commission, in the course of which he
said: “I admit that I have done painful experiments,
and I am not ashamed of admitting it. They are
absolutely necessary,” and “I consider that it is
perfectly right to inﬂict pain upon animals” (14, 084,
14 ,.147) He objected to the restrictions of the present
Act, and said. “I think that the Act is entirely
antagonistic to the advancement of physiology.”
According to the Report he stated that he had performed
painful experiments upon animals, both in Germany and '
in this country.

After fully considering Dr. Pembrey’ s theoiy of
pain, the Commissioners report that it led him into a
position which is untenable, and in their opinion
“ABSOLUTELY REPREHENSIBLE. ” In regard
to the fact that both Dr. Pembrey and Dr. Klein now
hold licences and certiﬁcates for vivisectional experi-
ments the report states: “It appears to us that
to grant a licence or certiﬁcates to any
person holding such views as those formerly
expressed by Dr. Klein, and as those enter-
tained by Dr. Pembrey, is calculated to create
serious misgiving in the minds 0f the
public. ”* ’

 

* In the sixth Report of Evidence, issued by the Royal Commission on
Vivisection, there is published an interesting controversy between Miss Lind—af-
Hagebx, Drs. Pembrey, Waller, and Dr. Thane, Chief Inspector under the
Vivisection Act. This should be read by every inquirer into the controversy. It
contains strange revelations of the inaccuracies for which certain vivisectors are
responsible. Miss Lind-af—Hageby has accused Dr. Pembrey of performing a

 

 




 

6

THE HIGHER ANIMALS AND THE GENERAL
MORAL SENSE 0F GIVILISED MANKIN‘D:1—.——

With regard to the special plea made by Miss
Lind- af Hageby fOr the total eXemption of the higher
animals frOm Vlylsec u1onal experiments, and the question
of discriminating between different classes of animals,
the Commission admits that: “There can be little
doubt that the general moral sense of mankind would
be prepared to make such diffe1entiation, and wo ould
regard with quite a different degree of reprobation the
likbe treatment for such purpose of one of the domes-
ticated animals on the one hand with that of cold-
blooded, or indeed Verminous or destructive animals on
the other.” “We feel,” adds the Report, “that
recognition should be accorded to the reality and
worthiness of such underlying sentiment,” and “we
think that the higher apes (anthropoid) and the dog
and cat present claims for special consideration .

“PITHED” ANIMALS.

Miss Lind-af-Hageby brought experiments on in-
sufﬁciently “pithed” animals to the notice of the
Commission. She pointed out that unlicensed persons
are at present permitted to experiment on insufficiently
pithed frogs and other animals under the mistaken
assumption that the animals do not feel pain. She
contended that proper pithing should consist of the
complete destruction of the brain and spinal cord, and

 

certain experiment on a rabbit, which consisted of putting it in an ice chest with
a piece of ice, and leaving it there for 55 minutes without holding the necessary
certiﬁcate. Dr. Pembrey defended himself before the Commission by stating:
“I anaesthetised the rabbit; it was therefore not under the Act.” Dr. Waller,
Director of the Laboratory, told the Commission that the rabbit was not
anaesthetised (l). Inspector Thane now admits that Miss Lind- af- Hageby is
right and Dr. Pembrey wrong (see p. 22, Sixth Report). He writes: “ The
passage in Dr. Pembrey’ s evidence ‘I anaesthetised the rabbit; it was therefore
not under the Act,’ 1'3 clam ly wa 0119. Miss Lind- af—Hageby 13 001 1th in saying ,
that the administration of an anaesthetic does not exempt a vivisector from the
necessity of holding a Certiﬁcate C, etc.”

Inspector Thane further says in reference to Dr. Pembrey’ s staryation
experiments on a marmot Which Miss Lind- af— Hageby told the Commission had
been done by him without the necessary certiﬁcate: “When the experiments ’
were brought to the knowledge of the Home Ofﬁce, Dr. Pembrey was informed _
that the Secretary of State 1s of opinion that experiments. involv ing. the keepmg
of a marmOt withOut food for 52 hours should not be performed without the
authority of a licence and certiﬁca-Yte see further pamphlet on “The Famoizs
Marmot.”

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

7

showed that different meanings are attached to the
word “pithing.” ’As an. example of the practices to
which she referred she quoted experiments." performed
by Dr. T‘. Gr. Brodie and Miss Winifred C. Cullis
(described in the“ Journal of Physiology,” vol. xXxiv.,
No. 3, 1906). The experiments were made " on dogs
which, having; been “ pithed,” recommenced to breathe
within a few minutes. Such “killed” animals, stated.
' the vivisectors, “ survive in this condition forsOme four
to eight hours. In the case of these particular experi—
ments the spinal cord and the medulla oblongata had ‘
been left ' intact. Severe operative measures Such as
opening the abdomen and‘the' trachea Were undertaken.
On the legal aspect of such experiments Miss Lind-af-
Hageby said: “Either these animals are dead or are
supposed to be dead, and then anybody can experiment
upon dogs deprived of their brains—any man in the
street ; or they are alive, and then they ought to. come
under the Act. Miss Cullis, I see, had no licencewhen
she performed these experiments, and I presume that
she considers the animals to have been dead, and: there-
fore that these were not illegal experiments. The-
question is of the utmost importance at the present
moment, as the Act relates to experiments upon animals
which are alive, and it seems that we must, reconsider
what it means to be alive.” (Q. 9730).

In the Final Reports the Commissioners deal at
some length with the question of pithing. They admit
that the word is used in at least three different senses,
involving different. degrees of destruction of the brain
and nervous system. They.,recommend: “That no
lesser operation than a complete destruction of the
brain (by this the Commission means “not only
destruction of the cerebral hemispheres but also of '. the
basal ganglia”), or decapitation should be accepted as ‘
equivalent to the production of complete anaesthesia.”
The Report adds: ‘f We also think-it desirable that the
operation of pithing a warm-blooded animal with: the
view to an experiment shouldbe conducted only bya.
licensed person, and that the operation itsel-fsheuld-Lbe
, performed under an adequate anaesthetic.” .

 




 

8

Mom: INSPEGTORS. }

_ Anti-Vivisectionists have constantly pointed out
that the present inspection of vivisectional experiments
is a farce. There are now two inspectors to superintend
the work of . some 500 licensedvivisectors. They do
not give. their whole time to the work of inspection.
Evidence before the Commission showed that the total
number of experiments performed in 1903, 1904 and
1905, in England and Scotland, was 89,581. During
these three years the two inspecters for Great Britain,
Dr. G. D. Thane and Sir James Russell, witnessed 93
experiments, leaving 89,488 uninspected. This inspec-
tion cost the country 2,550 guineas.

The Report now recommends that the number of
inspectors should be increased, and that they “ should
have“ at their command ample time to afford to the
public" reasonable assurance that the law is faithfully
administered.” It is suggested that there should be
four whole-time inspectors.

, The Commission further recommends limitations
as regards the use of Curare, and a change in the method
of selecting, and in the constitution of the Advisory
Body to the Secretary of State. The latter involves a
discontinuance of the present practice of reference to
the “ Association for the Advancement of Medicine by
Research.”* This recommendation is an acknowledg—
ment of the justice of the criticisms which have been
made by Anti-Vivisectionists with regard to the present
administration of the Act. '

FALLAOIOUS on ‘usruass RESULTS OF
vwlsrcnou.

. The Commission reports: “That certain results
claimed from time 'to time to have been proved by
experiments upon living animals, and alleged to have
been beneﬁcial inpreventing or curing disease, have,

 

* For a full statement 'of how Vivise‘ctors- have been permitted to advise in
the administration of the Act, see Blue Book Lessons-by L. Lind‘af-Hageby.
The Animal Defenceand Antivivisection Society, 170', Piccadilly,5 W.

 

O

‘
«-




 

1.

*
, T “

9

on further investigatiOn and experience, been found
to be fallacious or useless, ” and points out that they
have heard many witnesses, some of them haVing

'medical qualiﬁcations, “who have 'disputed " that

valuable knoWledge has been obtained by such.
experiments, maintaining that this knowledge has been
erroneously attributed to such experiments, or who
have contended that success has. not attended the
appliCation of the knowledge to the preventive or
Curative treatment of disease.” -

There are further admissions, such as the statement
that the discovery of anaesthetics owes nothing to
experiments on animals (p. 26) that tuberculin, intro-
duced by Koch in 1890, proved then “ to be a vast
failure so far as the treatment was concerned,” that
Koch himself suggested that “an experiment on an
animal gives no certain indication of the result of the
same experiment on a human being (p. 31), that un-
toward results attended the use of Haffkine’s plague
vaccine at Mulkowal in India, causing the death through
tetanus of 19 vaccinated persons (p. 38).

Such admissions are all the more signiﬁcant in
view of the Composition of the Commission and the
general attitude of uncritical acceptance of the alleged
beneﬁts of vivisection which they have adopted. '

THE GOMPDSITION OF THE GOMMISSION.

The Commission was appointed in 1906 and met
with strong opposition from Anti-Vivisectionists in
consequence of its unsatisfactory composition. Whilst
vivisectors and expert vivisectionists were appointed,

. no expert anti- vivisectionist was included among the

Commissioners,

One of the Commissioners was Sir William Church
who, prior to his appointment, had referied to anti-
vivisectors as 7 egard less of truthand fawne 33.—— ——(“ British
Medical Journal,” Dec. 2, 1905), One was D1. W. H.
Gaskell, a vivisector deeply committed to the practice
of experimenting upon live animals. The objection
raised to his appointment was indeed justiﬁed by events,
for Dr. Gaskell was forced to become a witness before-

 




 

10

the Comm1ssion, of which he was a membei, in con-
sequence of the allegatiOns of crueltv made against him
by Lieut. -Colonel LaWrie. Dr. Lawrie was himself an
experimentalist, and he alleged that Dr. Gaskell had
caused “frightful agony” to two dogs. (Q. 21,085.)
Dr. Gaskell denied this and the Commission has accepted
his denial. Another vivisector on the Commission Was
Sir John McFadye-an who has held certiﬁcates enabling
him to dispense with (the use of anaesthetics and
permitting him to use horSes, mules, or asses. Though

some of the Commissioners were “friendly” towards »

anti- vivisection they did not possess the requis1te know-
ledge of the controversy, or the Whole- hearted conviction
needed to counteract the strong pro-v1v1section1st1c
inﬂuence which dominated.

We could not eXpecta “verdict ” for TotalAbOIition
110111 such a Commission. The conduct of the Com-
mission and its tieatment of anti- vivisectiOn Witnesses
have been justly criticised. . The fact that 111 spite of the
unsatisfactory composition, and in spite of the
demands for greater freedom made by a.
number of YiYisectors, the Majority Report recom-
mends further restriction On vivisection is, therefore,
all the more signiﬁcant. It 1s a tribute to the force and
truth of anti- vivisection evidence.

WHAT THE vwlsmons ASKED 1011.

Professor E. H. Starling asked that students should
be allowed to vivisect. He asked that they should be
permitted to seek manipulative skill by operations on.
living animals. He referred to the prohibition in the pi e-
sent law of such eXpe1 iments as “most immoral " (3, 490).

He said that “one organ on which one ought to experi— '

ment on animals ﬁrst is the eye,’ ’and expressed the
Opinion that students would gain much if they were
allowed to do experimental eye- operations (3. 754).
Dr. Gotch, Professor Langley, Sir William Osler, S11

4 7 Douglas Powell, and Sir Victor Horsley also expressed

opinions in fav our of penrrnittmcJr students to v1v1sect for
the purpose of ebtaining “dexterity.” S11 Lauder
Brunton, Sir Victor Hor sley, D1. Pembrey, and

 

4-11. we» 4‘

 

 

 




11

Sir William Osler expressed the . opinion' that
the present Act—with its few restrictions ——
impedes the work of. the Vivisector. Sir Lauder
Brunton represented to the Commission that the
present law should be relaxed; he opposed the
idea of further inspectiOn of laboratories (6,845). He
stated that the present Act had cut short ”certain
experiments he wished to make. Asked by Mr. Abel
‘ Ram: “What was it in the Vivisection Actthat
' squeezed your experiments out of existence?” he
replied: ‘fThe difﬁculty of getting a licence for a
1‘» number of experiments without anaesthetics.” According
‘ to Sir Victor Horsley’s own estimate before the Com-
mission he has Vivisected no less than 3,120-animals
during the years that he has been a licensed and
certiﬁcated Vivisector. He made the amazing state-
ment to the Commission that “no experiments on non-
anaesthetised animals of a painful character have been
performed in the United Kingdom during the adminis-
tration of the Act ”—-—a statement which the Report of
the Commission on pain and suffering caused by
inoculations shows to have been absolutely wrong.
Sir Victor Horsley expressed the wish, that the Act
should be“ altered so as to admit of unlicensed
ViVi‘SGCblOIl of cold-blooded- animals. He thought it
“ridiculous” to include “ﬁsh and so-forth in any
Act.”

Ail demands made by viVisectors for
greater freedom have been set aside by
the Commission. Every recommenda-
tion made is a concession to the anti-
vivisection agitation.

uni atom: wnsows RESERVATION serum.

The Report of the whole COmmission covers 65
pages. Dr. George Wilson’s Report covers661 pages,
and should be read carefully by everyone interested in
the" controversy”. The Majority Report deals seria‘zfim
with the claims made by vivisectors in regard to the

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

12

utility of vivisection from the points of view of
physiology, medicine, surgery, diseases such as
tuberculosis, plague, cholera, malaria, yellow fever,
hydrophobia, sleeping sickness, diphtheria, tetanus, etc.
Dr. George. VVilson’s Report deals with the same
Subjects serriatzim, and from the point of view” of an
unbiased observer, and. an independent authority on
public health questions, he has come to the conclusion
that he is “far more impressed with the
fallacies and failures which have attended
this method -, of research than with the
successful results which are claimed.”

With regard to the moral question involved, he
holds “that experiments on animals, no matter with
what prospective gain to humanity, are repellent to
the ethical sense” (p. 139). He deprecates the charges
of ignorance and indifference to human suffering which
are sometimes hurled against those who are opposed to
vivisection. He thinks “that vivisectional demon-
strations before students could be dispensed with
altogether.”

Of vivisectional anesthesia he says : “ But
even when an animal is rendered completely insensible to
pain by Whatever means, there is still room for
uncertainty that during a prolonged physiological experi—
ment, or a demonstration of the severer kind before
students,it may not recover a certain degree of conscious-
ness, because it is not always easy to determine whether
in such cases full anaesthesia has been continuously
maintained.” And further : “ It appears to me that
even the most careful and conscientious physiologist or
research worker may at times be mistaken as to whether
in some of the severer operations the animal is entirely
unconscious of pain «throughout. . . . In this connection
I may also point out there may be others engaged in
research work who, like Dr. Pembrey or Dr. Klein, as
referred to in the Report (paragraphs 28 and 29), may
regard the inﬂiction of pain as quite a secondary consider-
«ation. Indeed, the numerous instances ofthe interference
of complete surgical anaesthesia with successful results,

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

13

which were quoted by the various witnesses opposed to

vivisection, and so fully illustrated by Miss Lind-af-
Hageby in her evidence, warrant the conclusion that
however conﬁdent the operator may be that he has
abolished all pain, vivisectional anaesthesia with
all its variety of agents and methods of
induction, can never be divested of an element
of uncertainty, whether incidental or not.”

On the alleged painlessness of certain experiments
he says: “ I cannot therefore accept Prof. Starling’s
contention without considerable reservation that dogs
with ﬁstulous openings, made in the digestive tract,
which deprive them of the secretions necessary to
healthy life, only suffer discomfort, or that the
numerous researches of a similar kind carried out by
Professor Pawlow of St. Petersburg, to which he refers,
are or can be carried out without the inﬂiction of
a varying amount of pain. As Miss Lind-af—Hageby
stated in her evidence, the physiological experiment
speedily becomes pathological, and ‘disease and suffer-
ing are by no means absent.’ ”

He speaks of the liability to error in vivisectional
experiments in physiology and of the “loose logic,” with.
which such results can be made applicable from animal.
to man. He feels bound to state that vivisectional
demonstrations before students “must be repellent to a
considerable number of them, and tend to dull their-
sensibilities,” and adds : “ But apart altogether from the-
moral aspect of the question, I venture to think that the
prominence given to experiments on animals in the
education of the medical student during recent years,
and the awards attaching to research scholarships, have
the effect of unduly discounting the value of clinical
work at the bedside, pathological anatomy and investi-
gation, and all that makes up for the thorough equipment
of the average medical practitioner. It has been
contended by some witnesses, and I agree with
them, that physiology could be as efﬁciently

taught by other experimental methods, such

 

 




 

.14

as‘the'employment of the Rontgen Rays, and
~ the use of the sphygmograph, spygmanometer,
and other modern appliances.” .

Of brain experiments he: says 2——

” l ‘V‘ In respect to. other researches on the nervous
system, I ’womd refer to the enormous number of
experiments which have been carried on to elucidate or
loc’alise brain function. These have been very fully
illustrated by instances in Dr. Arabella Kenealy’s
evidence, which show how conﬂicting and contradictory
many of them are, and how confusing and unreliable
are 'the conclusions drawn from them. . .
Admitting that all these bewildering mazes of research
work are of scientiﬁc interest and afford ample scope
for contention between various schools of workers, it
is difﬁcult to see of what practical beneﬁt the
results can be either to man or animals. It
is not surprising, therefore, that no witnesses, as Stated
in the Report (paragraph 84), attempted to place before
the Commission a full record of the advance of
physiological knowledge during the last 30 years, and
this I contend is because the ﬁeld, as regards
any yield of useful results, has become so
bare and barren.” fad he adds: “And so the
interminable record of experiments mounts
up on a basis, I venture to think, of little
science and less logic.”

THE REM. ADVANGE m mum MEDIGINE.

“The real advance in modern medicine
has,” writes Dr. Wilson, “depended almost
entirely on clinical diagnosis, therapeutics,
and pathology, guided by a careful study
of natural causes, but not upon experiments
on animals, which are inherently misleading
in their application to man, and therefore
always more or less unreliable.”

 

 

 




 

4“ v»w————-*=—_~__ in. A.

 

 

acquired knowlege on man.’

15
' Of new drugs which are continuously being foisted
on the market. as the outcome of experiments on
animals, he says : “They almost all of them could be very
wel‘ld'ispensed with; indeed, 'a goOd many of them have
already‘fall‘en'into disuse.” ' ‘ ‘ ‘ "

" Of certain experimentsperformed by Sir Lauder

. Brunton on “struggling,” “groaning,”””“moaning”
dogs and brought to the notice of the Commission by

Miss Lind-af-Hageby, he says: “And this liability to
error must be still further increased when the animal is
submitted to the shock of a severe experiment, such as
those terribly . painful experiments* on dogs
carried out by Sir Lauder Brunton himself in his
researches on the action of digitalis just before the
passing of the 1876 Act, referred to by Miss Lind-af-
Hageby and other witnesses, and the equally severe
experiments carried out by Professor Cushny and Dr.
Dixon in testing ergot which were brought forward
during Professor Cushny’s examination.”

Of experiments in relation to surgery he says:
“ Surgical operations on the animal instead ’of being an
aid to the surgeon, may sometimes mislead him, and
there is therefore an underlying element of risk to the
patient, when he begins to apply his experimentally

7

He speaks of the so-called consensus of medical
opinion as “a. very fallible and ﬁckle court,”
and through a number of interesting pages draws atten-
tion to the many medical errors which in times past
have been upheld by a majority of the medical pro-
fession, but which. have been defeated as the result of
more knowledge. Dr. Wilson states, that he is “very
sceptical of all theories or panaceas which emanate
solely from the animal laboratory.”

 

 

 

 

 

* See “ Collected Papers on Circulation and Respiration,” by Sir Lauder
Brunton,-pwblished by Macmillan & 00., 1907. Sir Lauder Brunton describes
the state'of'oxne'dog in the following words: “ Howling loudly as if suffering
much.”

 




16

THE FINAL REPORT OF THE ROYAL COM—
MISSION ON VIVISECTION, including Dr.
George Wilson’s Report, can [be obtained from
The Animal Defence and Anti-Yivisection
Society, 170, Piccadilly, London, W., Price 1/8;
also Miss Lind-af~Hageby’s Evidence before the
Commission, 237 pages. Answers to 1,111
Questions. Free. Read pamphlet entitled “The
Famous Marmot,” which deals With misrepresen—
tations Which have been made. Free.

MANCHESTER SOCIETY FOR

THE PROTECTION OF ANIMALS
FROM VIVISECTION,

Office :——9, ALBERT SQUARE,

MANCHESTER. '

 

Reprinted by permission of the
ANIMAL DEFENCE (S- ANTI—VIVISECTION SOCIETY.
770, Piccadilly, London, 11V.

Printed by ST. CLEMENTS PRESS, LTD., Newspaper Buildings, Portugal Street, Kingsway, W.C.

 




