‘

,3

lowing his ears and trumpeting a

challenge, symbolizes nature’s
magniﬁcence. But if that image is to Sur-
vive in fact, not just in our imaginations,
quick action is needed. _

Wildlife experts estimate that #800,000
of Africa’s elephants were slaughtered
for their tusks in the past decade. Some
700,000 remain. They’re being shot at the
rate of 70,000 a year; another 10,000 die
because older elephants, teachers and
protectors of the young, are lost.

It’s not stretching things very far to
say that the Western consumer who buys
_ carved. ivory in a New York boutique is
helping pull the trigger in the African
bush. Each year tons of poached ivory is
secreted out of places like Tanzania and
Uganda to the Far East for carving, then

T HE image of a bull elephant, bil-

off to retailers in the United States, Eu-.

rope, and Japan. In the process, the value
of the ivory multiplies a hundred times. It
is estimated that 80 percent of the ivory
being sold today comes from poaching.
Clearly, Africa’s nations have a crucial
role in saving the elephant from extinc-
tion. In Kenya, elephants have made a
comeback in a few protected wildlife re-
serves. And a concerted effort by the
Tanzanian government and international
wildlife organizations has arrested the
killing of elephants in the giant Selou
reserve. But the picture inmost of Africa

GUI/ISM) I‘d-um

It’s time to save the elephant

is bleak, with outmanned and outgunned
rangers unable to hold off poachers.

But Africa is only one front in this
battle. As long as the market expands,
poaching will ﬂourish. Africans who do
the actual killing get only a tiny cut of the
proﬁts. But What they get can be a huge
supplement to sparse incomes.

If Americans would simply stop buy-
ing ivory trinkets, the world market
would shrink by 30 percent. Consumer
boycotts are, therefore, a promising tac-
tic, and wildlife groups like the Washing-
ton—based African Wildlife Fund are going
to push that approach during the coming
Year of the Elephant observance.

In the long term, development of better
methods for marking ivory — employing,
perhaps, such sophisticated techniques as
irradiation — could help control the com-
merce in poached tusks. At present, it’s
nearly impossible to distinguish‘between
illegal and legal ivory.

Legislation may play a part, too,
though outright bans on the import of
ivory could alienate African countries
that are making an honest eﬁort to en-
force a limited, legal harvest. Those coun—
tries sorely need the foreign exchange a
legitimate ivory trade could bring.

'Ib save the elephant, cooperation and
understanding will have to subdue greed
and indiﬁerence. In that sense, this battle
is crucial for humanity, too.

WJMIM ‘ 5'15 33

 

 




 

f©
J)
<
m
2
3':
Z
-;O
{E
is
.-)
'7!
a
O
>
’2
E
f’
U
:E
Ile
in,
3'71
0
C
2
”C3
>
d
0
Z

 

In 1986 alone, 825 tons of tusks yielded $500 miliion of carved ivory. Elephant toll: 71,000

The last trump of the elephant?

By Bunny McBride
Special to The Christian Science Monitor
Y cabin stood beside a water pool,
and each morning I awoke to the
sound of an elephant family snorting
and spraying and splashing. During my sev-
eral-week stay, Tanzania’s Lake Manyara Na—
tional Park was fairly replete with elephants:
some on the move, others standing on their
hind legs feeding on high acacia branches,
others camouﬂaged by tree shadows and
looking like so many boulders.

One night a young bull faced 011‘ with our
Land Rover in the middle of the road. We
stopped and turned off the engine and lights.
The huge black specter walked toward us,
knocking his tusks against the vehicle as he
glided the tip of his snout over the hood and
windshield. The sound of his heavy, hollow
breathing ﬁlled the air. Suddenly, he turned

and pounded down the road in front of us.

That was in 1983. On a return trip to
Manyara in March, I expected similar close
encounters. There were none. In fact, I saw
but a handful of elephants, always in the
distance. The population had dropped from
485 to 181 — just in the last two years.

The African elephant may become a mem-
ory before this century closes.

Studies show devastation on the order of
50 percent throughout the continent in only
10 years, as the ivory trade thrives in the
shadow of corruption and upheaval. But a
plan is taking shape that would do for the
elephant what was done for the whale.

'lbday marks the start of the “Year of the
Elephant,” a campaign to educate Americans
(who purchase 30 percent of the world’s
carved ivory) about the elephant’s plight.

Please see ELEPHANTS page 6

 

h—N

 

 




 

2r-

 

 

V l; ELEPHANTS from page ‘1

. “At least 80 percent of ivory on the,
market. today comes from poached ele-
phants — even if it comes with all the

correct papers certifying it as legal,” says '

' researcher Cynthia Moss, author of a cap-
tivating new book, “Elephant Memories.”
Ms. Moss, who spent the last 20 years in
East Africa studying elephant behavior,
is a senior research adviser to the African
Wildlife Foundation (AWF), and was on
hand at the National Zoo in Washington,
D.C., yesterday to help launch the foun-
dation’s Year of the Elephant project.
The campaign is a direct response to
the ﬁndings of a new study by the well-
known elephant specialist, Lain Douglas-
Hamilton, for whom Moss worked as a
research assistant when she ﬁrst went to
East Africa. The study focuses on ele-
phants in Kenya, Tanzania, and Uganda,
where the numbers plunged from 253,947
to 108,615 between 1977 and 1987. _
“The ﬁgures are devastating,” says
AWF’s vice-president, Diana McMeekin.
“The working estimate is that there are
now 700,000 elephants on the continent,
compared with 1.5 million 10 years ago.”
David Western, chairman of the Elephant
and Rhino Specialist Group at the Inter-
national Union for Conservation of Na-
ture and Natural Resources (IUCN), says
Mr. Douglas-Hamilton has shocked people
“who didn’t want to believe that the
offtake was so great in Kenya.” The sur-
vey showed that in Kenya, whose second-
largest industry is wildlife'tourism,‘ the
elephant population dropped 57 percent
in protected areas and 73 percent in un—
protected areas during the last 10 years.
. While drought and human encroach-
ment on elephant habitat have c0ntrib-
uted to the creature’s demise, the ivory
trade is the most acute threat. The IUCN
reports that 825 tons of raw ivory, with a
market value of $50 million, were traded
in 1986. The raw ivory, sold mainly in
Asia, was converted into carved ivory
worth about $500 million on the world

“"“ -‘ ‘1"""I/;‘.: . “M" 1!
r“ ’2 “ii-i'iﬂfn‘w' ‘4' f .5} .12 74.3- 1 r— ‘9 l ‘ it 23.5.!“ -~“r’

THE CHRlSTlAN SCIENCE MONITOR

h‘. "*9...” 1M; M" ' '- ; . “" .‘ ' " ’

FROM PAGE ONE

 

   

market. The death toll among elephants
for the trade: 89,000 - at least 80 percent
(71,200) of them poached.

So many adult elephants have been

, killed in recent years that the average

tusk size has dropped from 21 pounds in
the mid-1970s to 12% pounds today.
Numbers don’t tell the full story. “Fifty-
ﬁve percent of elephants shot are repro—
ductive females,” says Mr. Western. Moss
says this hampers the survival skills of
the remaining population. “Elephant
know-how is passed on primarily through
teaching, not instinct. The slaying of ma-
ture females for their larger tusks de-
stroys the respository of knowledge

about such things as migratory routes,

water sources, and mothering skills.”

All but three of the 31 East Africa
elephant habitats Douglas-Hamilton sur-
veyed aerially showed vast declines. The
few protected areas that showed in-

creases are in Kenya and include the Ma- r

sai Mara Reserve, Marsabit National Re-
serve, and Amboseili National Park,
where Moss led the Amboseili Elephant
Research Project for more than 12 years.
One of the most startling declines oc-

Average tusk 3'19 dVOPPed from 21 Pounds

   

.................
.............. ‘ u-o.o“""' - ‘ ‘ "'nu..‘.‘u”anon”...u..u.....u...nu................

i3 521/2 an; {6 "taint; of adult elephants

curred in Tanzania’s Lake Manyara Na-
tional Park, where both Moss and Doug-
las-Hamilton spent time studying
elephants, and where my own encounter
with the night stalker occurred.

“1 ﬁnd the drop in Manyara particu-
larly sad and startling,” says Moss, “not
only because I knew those elephants by
name, but because the park is small and
very manageable in terms of its layout
and its high tourism. 1f elephants can’t be
protected there, where can they be?” She
speculates that the poaching in Manyara
is happening at night and “within the
system” — suggesting that rangers and
ofﬁcials are involved in some way.

Conservationists agree that in the 36
African nations with elephant popula-
tions, park managers can be part of the
poaching problem rather than the solu—
tion. “Wardens and rangers are pitifully
underpaid and underequipped,” Moss
writes. “When the price of tusks is equiv-
alent to an ofﬁcer’s yearly salary, the
temptation to poach is overwhelming.”

Unfortunately, the temptation is grow-
ing - right alongside increasing ivory
prices. In 1960, ivory sold at about $2.35

NOILVGNnOLd 3311011!“ NVOlHdV/OV'IEONH NBAS @'

«4-,,»
l

. v .2

I. 1‘55“

flair- .m‘i a a ‘18. ‘13.; ': .

.K“ .

a pound. By 1978, it had climbed to $35,
and this year it soared.to-$68;.Says the
AWF’s McMeeldnz-“Ivory isiinCreasingly

being purchased as a hedge against inﬂa— 7 :

tion, saved against the day it is no longer
in supply and prices hit the sky.” ” "

Civil wars in Uganda, the Central 'Afri-I

can Republic, Sudan, and Somalia have
compounded the pOaching problem. “Not
only are more automatic weapons readily
available to facilitate poaching,” says
McMeekin, “but in the turmoil of war,
civil systems have broken down and law
enforcement is lax.”

IUCN is now forming a special commis-
sion to review all aspects of ivory trade.
Regulation options include (1) revising
the current unveriﬁable quota system,
asking each nation to determine how
much ivory it can afford to"’export with-
out threatening the its elephant popula-
tion; (2) setting a minimum task size;

(3) establishing management systems
such as those in South Africa‘and
Zimbabwe, where “elephants are con-
trolled like herds of cows — they’re culled
to keep them at a sustainable level, and
limited hunting is allowed,” says
McMeekin; (4) identifying a benchmark
population of some 200 elephants in var—
ious habitats, and pouring resources into
the protection of them, rather than trying
to oversee every corner of elephant coun—
try; and (5) encouraging external sanc-
tions from countries that import ivory.

While respecting the rights of African
nations to make their own decisions about
use of their resources, Moss sees ele—_
phants as an international treasure, and
hopes to prod people beyond Africa to do
their part to ensure the survival of the
species. “Developed countries could help
African conservation areas by contribut—
ing far more to their maintenance,” she
says. In addition, Moss says she “would
like to see a temporary moratorium on
buying ivory by the American market -
until the time comes when one can be sure
that the tusk is either from an elephant
killed legally, or one that has died of
natural causes.”

HURSDAY. MAY 12. 1988‘

 

 

 

 




 

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD CLIPPINGS
1868 Columbia Road, N.W.
Washington, D,C, 20009

Date: JUL. 2 31987

- July 33, I 87 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD --‘ Extensions

the words of o aul Vl who said, if you Central African Republic, and Zaire, and have
ant peac' we r 'ustice. u; been greatly reduced in East. South, and
am ‘ £3 West Africa. ‘The longer we fail to act, the

» more ominous the situation becomes.
SAVE THE WTS ' . Today, it is estimated, there are fewer than

‘ . one million elephants in Africa, down more.

HON~ ANTHONY C. BEILENSON than 23 percent just since 1980. it is impera-
. or CALIFORNIA , tive that something be done to half this de-
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES Cline—and the only effective way to do that is

Thursday, July 23, 1987 to reduce the demand for ivory.

. Mr. BEILENSON. Mr. Speaker, today i am. mg: :‘ggeuggniﬁ‘gggggnw ‘0'" me '" supp“
introducing. along with 33 of my colleagues, at '
legislation tolhelp stem the slaughter of the
world's largest and perhaps most magnificant
land mammal, the African elephant. The Ele-
phant Protection Act would ban all United
States trade in elephant ivory and other ele-
phant products. '
During the last two decades there has been
a steady and drastic decline in the population
of elephants in many African countries. Much
of this decline is attributed to poaching, the il-
legal killing of elephants, to obtain their valua-
ble ivory tusks for sale.’While most raw ivory
is exported to Far Eastern countries, such as
Japan and Hong Kong, the United States still
imports a great deal of worked or carved ivory
that is worn as jewelry. ’
Because of this senseless killing, in 1978
the Department of lnterior’s Fish and Wildlife
Service placed the African elephant on its list
of threatened species. imports were to be al-
lowed only from countries which were parties
to the Convention on International Trade in
Endangered Species [ClTES], the international
member organization that tries to preserve .
wildlife. The parties to CITES have agreed to ‘
sharply restrict, through a quota system, the
amount of ivory which is traded each year,
and have banned trade in ivory which has l
been illegally poached. In addition, countries ‘
that import raw ivory are required to examine
the ivory for‘official stamps designating its
country of origin and to certify it as legal.
Unfortunately, those regulations have been
largely ineffective and unenforceable against
sophisticated smugglers and forged exporta-
tion documents certifying that the ivory came
from elephants killed legally. A great deal of
ivory is still being illegally exported or rerouted.
through countries with dwindling or nonexist-
ent elephant populations and international
trade data shows that a much greater amount
of ivory is entering the world market than is
being officially reported to CITES. Banning the
importation of ivory products into the United
States is the only way to ensure that ele-
phants do not continue to be slaUghtered in
order to satisfy the demand for ivoryin the
United States.
Legislation

“s-.‘r

 

 

 

 

_, g.-,~_..'_..‘,.._.~rv—- »—-~—~\~—s. --w-~—‘«~ , .. a .~ ~

 

 

Hamilton, one of the wor .. " g-“a’wiii
. ties on elephants, testified that the "ivory, bade...
which had been fueled by a LOGO-percent in- ;
erase inthe world. market price during the
. 1970’s, had greatly contributed to the..decima‘- ‘
. tion of elephant popubtions. For example,
Kenya lost more than. half of its elephants. be-
tweenx1979'and ‘ f 977. _ i
More recent evidence shows that this trend ,
continues: Mr. Douglas‘Hamilton stated in a
- recent article that in‘the past few years, ele-
phants appear to have been virtually elimi-
nated in certain areas within Sudan, Chad, the

 




waq Hmmg 3miﬁ$ 222122222 ivmry man,
323* 232C 2b4E3 331 C XCHXKE

HENH AGNE iUWI} m Q ﬁiMwmmmth wmmwiwvw fwwm m wmwldwimw ham 0%

L3. 2:22:32} 2?. '2“- 22 (:1 :i 2223 92322212223 22 3: m 1 dz": :i 332'": 2“. 333272222} 25w :2 a": New“; Ham; 2 1222ch :i 3"“: 3:32 3;: 2'2 2:? X3 , i 2:. .2. 2:52":
ﬁﬂXﬂWy amd fmwmww h2mrt w? Lhm 22222 lﬂCH’ir' with an Uﬁﬁﬂlﬁ wtmrécaﬁw
a? #62 20mg mf tmﬁkﬂ.

Th2 U.H. Emwvwmtimw of iu32rnm23wmm} ”waﬁm 1m Emﬁﬁmgwwwm Epwwiwﬁ m2
EITIEQ, yutr 2d tw ham thw ivmwy twmdw at 32% ﬂmtwhww mwatimg in m 222 km
ﬁrmtwmt thw awdammwwed ﬁfrimam mlwwhawt.
3:22¢'5’°5§E-F:3"r" 3.: {523-3 12:32:13. ‘2‘: t ”2.1.333 223-1322123231 thaw: 2:323:33, KIWI”? 93.919139911299999; 22,5qu :2, g‘ :2 2:22;; {2:2} '2 :3.»
ﬁlaughtﬁrwd im ant kfw iu-H in iﬁﬂg ﬁiﬂﬁﬁ 2m 22’ $2222 ﬁhm m”: 3’! ﬁﬁmmwﬁ
far iVMsmy

Qfsic:* a ﬁlmphmwt pmmuiatimmg whimh 22222 22 22222 E 2&132225222
1 ‘93? W23 212:2 52:33.1 uwg 23:3 '2“. «:3 t' «:3 3 2212.. 2:": '2: h as a": 1:233th , 12:21:32)? 22:12:?" 'i c:- i 22 .3. 52 55:32" ,. ..

Win? twadiwg ban 2222 wffwmt 2m Jawuawyi bu? Hwiﬁaim - :1 Hmmg
Pﬂmng’g Luq3iwg __€m¢t&r2m3.a ﬁiwwﬂmwﬂﬂw wwﬁﬁwmwaticww gy2wiwg 22m2<m21mwyﬂag
tradmwg a ﬁhﬁﬁﬁﬂ tm 2213 ﬁff thwiw wtwwhwila wf mmww thaw ﬁ?é ﬁmwm m2
tmgdu2.

P32322t: r3232::i(33%52 2:332:21 2:232:22 22223222 23222323 22232323? 23 £32 m2 yrziem 22 i m»232?}r 222222222322222322
wwwa mammwrﬁ 0f LitiLn amd almﬁmd thwiw hmwﬁ2W2 Lm iwmry 1wpws

With thwiw traditimmal marketﬁ . 22m232g thw 22Mwmﬂmth wwtmw2imm
did littlw 2W hwlﬁ thw aﬂlmwy’ﬁ iwwsf wwpmsbws 2211 $22 2hwiw mﬁwmkg
workﬁﬁ aw 2mytimﬁt2m2'ﬁiiM2232332cua 22 Iyﬁﬁﬁ gumurmﬁw

Th2 ﬁgrimultuwm and “3*h32122 Kawawtmmmt maid 2% had mmEy iﬁwmwd
ﬁnpwwt 1imwmm22 fur thw 2212 QF $.ﬁ? twnﬂ a? ivmwy ﬁuwiWQ ﬁhﬁ 212 mmm2ﬂ2

mimaw thw haw wmmt iwta 22:2' 2 framtimm m2 thﬁ iﬂﬂ twwg wmwmaéﬁy

2: :2: {32.3322 2:?(35 2:32;: $232223» "3:. h 2:" 23.2 '2“: ..
”It 22 almmwt imgmaﬁiblw 2% 2221 a majmw mimww m2 ivmwy mmwﬁ

HI

,7 55.22 :Uj 2 23233;; i. 31'? i 2: My; ., 2: t u; 2'2 2!. 2.: 3-222} 2.22? 'iFsty'r? 32.7" 3,922“: . . “ Ii 3’“: 2222:: ”:2 2:2: 2:222:23’“"371 2:: 7
gevmra} mimil Hﬂﬂ $011222 but www it 3% wwwth mathiwg htsn2"w an? magmw
3--
“t...

mawkahﬁ havw wen amt wff.

fdg i2; caw2: cxf' 2272? 3%223 Fkyrqg 3%cawg; 223222 2:2232h2222 222'1" '“ 22322 i?22¢”y'

90“” ‘9‘ ‘ 39’3" 9-999 ~ 3333393394” ‘3‘ 99 “37‘ 93 ‘95“ 9"‘33‘23 £33”: .3 '3. 2 ’IIHIHI? ”2:. 22:23 2:23:23 2; 232:} c: -'- _ ‘. 2‘3. .32“; 2:2 2:5? figs 2.22322 {:3 ‘2': 2'"; 21-12? 2
jobﬁg but mawy havw aimpiy bwmwmw uwwmwiwywm.

"(323112' ‘22722 ?/<32.¢:3§3 (:22? ?x22? “2 craaaw 25221 1 l 2:23.23w2322 “3(223223 222:?.:: 3': '2 22232223?
an ivmﬁy '*ro:322~zu:n2u 3:udH22:t mrt ﬂﬁaimw. “met 0? 222 32%”2WE 22w
CB‘VE'V' 13H} MVKE3 V5222 £122.22? 22323222225- {12.} 333.213: 33-25234“.

” I ‘t: 122224223: 552 '2; 1222:2252: 3“ Li '2' 2;? 322722222; .3 2.2 23:2,: 2':- <';:« .3 2'2 2'2: 'r-‘r': '3: h 22' .34. :31 3.. 3. ., .::». '1"; 2:2 exam-'22:":
thu‘F whm havw mamagwd tm gwitch jmhﬂ 222 mmw wmwhxmg am mmiy w222222 mw
ﬁaiwg 06d jmhﬁ 222 ﬁﬁWWihg 122% thaw haif Of what thwy www& 22
marvawg.”

Th2 Qwvwwwmmmt mil} iauwch a wetrmining pwmg22m latww thiw mwwthg
Naming tm amﬁviﬁcw ivmry mawvwra 2m uﬁw thQiW talﬁmt$ 2m wmwk ﬂaw hwwwm
amd plaﬁtim in2twad m? wlwphawt tu2 ha. But Lha pwmgram 1% gummmtwﬁ 2m
mawt with little ﬁﬂﬁﬁﬁﬁﬁa 2

THE Eﬂmwwwk EQUWEE5 whiwh will $022 thm QQVﬁPﬁmWﬂt ahnut $u.,dﬂw
will aunmmmmdata mmly ﬂéﬂ fmwmww mawvwrw. ﬂ gmwawwmwwt rpuhwhmMu 2222 ha
hwpmﬂ 3QQ a? tha mmlmmy32 wwughly E300D farmmw mawvwwm wuuid amﬁly fww
tha ﬁwagwam.

Many a? thw twadwwa 2nd marvwwg 22y wmw bmme amﬂ p.u‘ta{ 222 mmmw
ﬁubﬁtitutwa far tUERE and ﬁuﬂh carvimgﬁ wmmld captuww mm markwt.

”Thmy Hﬁﬂt mg to 5-w3mt 2h 2% plaﬁLiw, but mlaatim ham mw appwﬁl tw
mnbrbmdy,” Hg aaid. "Nmbmﬁy would buy it.’

 

mg} $7W18m90 11:1ﬁ and

 




ﬁns A9331“ Gluten ﬂtember 29, 1987

New Ruling Could Cancel

Cougar Hunting Season

l
0
St
L;
't

By DAN MORAIN, Times Staff Writer
SAN FRANCISCO—In a deci- "

sion that could force cancellation
of California’s first cougar hunt in
nearly 16 years, a Superior Court
judge ruled Monday that state
Fish and Game officials failed to

adequately assess. the effect of‘

such a hunt before they approved
it.

Superior Court Judge Lucy K.
McCabe sent the case back to the
Fish and Game Commission with
orders that it spell out in writing
the “cumulative impact" of a
hunt on such issues as the moun-
tain lions’ habitat and their preyt

(continued)

Schaller, a reknowned expert on

Environmentalists
brought the suit said McCabe’s
ruling means the 79-day season,
scheduled to open! Oct. 10, would
be canceled. But Deputy Atty.
Gen. Dennis Smaage, who repre-
sented the Department of Fish
and Game in the case, said the
commission might be able to act
fast enough to ensure that the
hunt will take place.

At the St. Louis Zoo in Missouri,‘

scientists have saved the Speke’s

the bear-like animals, said much
has been learned about their habits
since they were first tagged with
radio collars in the wild in 1980.

“Some animals you can watch
with no problem, but in dense
bamboo you can’t identify pandas
and you can't follow them easily,"
Schaller said.

In radiotelemetry, first intro~

duced to conservationists in the.

late 19703, the animal is fitted with
a small, battery-operated radio
that sends signals to. a hand-held
receiver. Each animal is assigned a
separate frequency, allowing sci-
entists to distinguish and track
animals without ever seeing them.
In some models, the tone and
pattern of the frequencies change

when the animal moves or is at ;

rest, so scientists can monitor its
activity. The newest models have
built-in temperature recorders
placed under the skin that can
signal when the animal is in heat
and when it dies.

Schaller called the collars essen-
tial to conservation efforts.

'But he said perhaps the most
important, and far-reaching, scien-
tific advancement in the conserva-
tion field has been genetic engi-
neering.

“One of the biggest changes
we’ve faced has been the realiza-
tion you can't save animals like
Noah did, two by two," he said in an
interview, from his Connecticut
home. “You need a viable popula-
tion with genetic variability so that
inbreeding does not create a spe-
cies doomed for extinction.

“We used to say, well, 100 ani- ‘

mals is a viable population, but that
was just a guess,” he said. “Now we
can look at their genetic makeup
and say we need this number of
animals to keep the species going.”

gazelle from extinction by geneti-
cally testing animals in the last
known herd, Soule said.

“By using modern genetic tech-
niques, they were able to start a
selective-breeding process that
eliminated bad genes and varied
the pool of good genes to keep the
breed strong,” Soule said. “They.
are thriving now.”

He said another genetic project
in Texas indicated that a proposed

dam would split a large population .

of Concho water snakes into three
separate populations, two of which
would probably die due to inbreed-

“That’s an example of science

. and conservation at Work, of com-
‘ing up with concrete scientific

analysis of a situation instead of a-
hunch," said Soule, a founder of the
Society for Conservation Biology.
“It is much more convincing to the
governments and in the courts."
Schaller said genetic tests will
play a key role in a program to vary
the matings of pandas, which are
fast becoming inbred and extinct.
Some of the animals will be air-
lifted from one area to another.
“Pandas are scattered on isolated
mountaintops,” he said. “It's neces- ,

- sary to transfer animals from one .

population to, another to ensure a
good genetic poo .” ‘ ~
- At the Bronx Zoo on a recent
rainy afternoon, Yong Yong stirred
from her sleep in the protective
branches of a tree and stretched
lazily. The sparse crowd, huddled
under umbrellas, cheered. '
“In the end, the research is only
a small step," Schaller said. “Un-
less there is a commitment on the
part of local people and govern-
ment, the research doesn’t give us
anything but ' knowledge for
knowledge’s sake.”

“I don’t see why the commis-
sion can’t make this finding" in
time. I think we can,” Smaage
said. He pointed out that McCabe
said during the hearing that Fish
and Game had gathered “sub-
stantial evidence” to suggest that
a hunt was acceptable, but that
there was no finding on ',the
technical question of the overall
effect of a hunt. ,

California FiSh and Game
Commission members and Staff
officials planned to confer: by
telephone today to discuss :the
ruling. The commission will meet
Friday in Long Beach to consider
its next move. 1

Michael Remy, a lawyer who
represented opponents of ‘\.’the
hunt, predicted that the commis-
sion will have to hold a new
round of hearings during whiehit
will consider a number of new
and old issues, from the effects of
a hunt on the cats' gene pool to
effects on their main prey, the mule
deer.

“As far as the hunt this year, I
don’t see any way that such actions
could happen," he said. “There’s a

real question whether, for example,
in light of the rash of forest fires,
it’s still advisable to have a hunt,"
noting that much of the cougars’
habitat was destroyed in the
Northern California blazes.

The Legislature imposed a mora-
torium on mountain lion hunting in
January, 1972, when the population
had dwindled to 2,400. The state
last allowed a full season of moun-
tain lion hunting during 1970 and
1971, when 118 lions were killed.

A bill to extend the moratorium
was vetoed by Gov. George Deuk-
mejian in 1985, and attempts to
reinstate it were killed in an As-

. sembly committee this year.

The matter went to the Fish and
Game Commission, which voted 3
to 2 in April to issue permits to kill
as many as 190 cougars in Northern
California, despite opposition from
environmentalists and anti-hunt-
ing activists. '

The hunt drew backing after
complaints by ranchers that live-
stock was being killed and by
hunters who said that the deer
population was being depleted.

. them I... Octotcr 25, 1937

Green er

. .asturés in Busy Bangkok _

‘ By SALIN YA SUKWON G, Reuters

l
BANGKOK, Thailand—Hard- I

{pressed to make a living in Thai-
land’s dwindling jungles, a group of
elephant handlers has found;
greener pasture8".«a_{£0h,, 50 of its j
animals in the bustling streets oft
Bangkok. . ‘ a ‘ . ._ l
, The four-ton’beasts lumber,
calmly along the congeSted’ roads,
towering above cars and stopping
to accept food from passers-by,
perform trig ks or pose for photo-

graphm

5 The elephants were trucked to
Bangkok from northeast Thailand

earlier this year for a government
tourist promotion program. -

They stayed on when their own-
ers realized that they could earn
more money in the capital-giving
children rides or playing soCcer for
audiences—than they could back
home. .- g .

Vichai- Plaisuwan, an elephant
handler, or mahout, from Surin
province, said his , job there had
disappeared with the jungle.

' “Many years ago, when Surin
was still covered in forests, ele-
phants were used to drag timber to
the mills. But now all the trees
have been cut down," he said.

Good-Luck Charm

Thais pay 45 cents to walk under
his elephant’s belly, which, accord-
, ing to tradition, brings good luck.

Customers include pregnant
women anxious for healthy babies,
students who want better marks
and traders who want to get rich
quick. .. ..

Vichai, who. comes T , _a long
line of mahouts, said he also akes
money selling carved ivory ob“ cts.

The citfelephants’ lowly : tus
is a far cry““‘fnom the dignified
position they havEMgeﬁjoyed in
Thailand.

“Elephants are considered sa—
cred' and have always held an
|important place in Thai culture," _
lwildlife specialist Amnuay Kor-
vanich said. '

“A hundred years ago, they
carried kings into battle; were
prized possessions of the aristocra-
cy. A person’s rank was judged by
the number of elephants in his
household."

Even nowadays, no state proces-
sion or big religious ceremony is
complete without the imposing
presence of elephants.

 




New Technology Joins Battle to Save
' ‘ ” Old Species

By GAYLE YOUNG, United Press International

NEW YORK-«The rare snout-nosed.
delicately hooved ckapis of Zaire are
caught today as they have been for
centuries—lured into palm-covered pits
dug into the forest floor. - '

It is‘ the only safe way, to capture them.
And it is only after they arecaptured that
they can be fitted with hint-technology
across miles of tangled jungle to recorders
that monitor the animals on the run and at
rest, as they give birth and when they die.

fl‘he Okapi Project, run by ' anthropolo-
gists Terese Hart and *John Hart in Zaire,
represents everything old and new about
the emerging discipline of conservation
biology. . ‘ ‘I x '

Old-fashioned techniques in bird-i and
animal-watching have been combined 'with
the latest in computers. biolosy. senetics
and technology. ' “-

,“There was a period when conservation
Was equated with home economics by the
scientific and academic commandos.” said
Michael Soule, a bloloﬂst at the University
of Michigan in Ann_Arbsr who storied the
ﬁrst peer-review“ scientific Mal for
conservationists two years ago. '

“Their isolation tended to prevent _ _
diffusion of new information from other
sciences,” he said. “That's changing now.
There are many advances in many ﬁelds
that are applicable to conservation biology.

“Itis becoming much more exact, much
more‘accurate.” a . ,

Conservationists said it is increasingly
important to turn their field—long noted
for its eccentric individualists and charac-
terized by quaint techniques-into a‘ recog-
nized science. , _ ‘

“The process. of death and decline is
accelerating," Soule said. “When we go to
governments, hats in hand, saying, ‘We
need to put aside land for this animal.’ we

have to know exactly how much land and

why.“ _. ' -

George Schaller, director of Wildlife
ConserVation International, the conserva-
tion- program of the New York Zoological
Society, agrees. » ' *

“Theresesschisn‘esdedudiemststep
to implementing comerv "

said Schaller, who helped establish a
program to save the rare giant pandas of
Cl . . ‘ . _

“It's really a new field," he said. “The
change has been going~ on for years, but it's
crystallizing." " *q ,

A brief survey' of conservationists un-
covered a mmIber of projects designed to
save, animals by using recently discovered
scientific and technological advances.

Scientists are examining the DNA of
rhinos and gazelles to determine their
long-term genetic-and therefore evolu-
tionary—viability. '

A massive project in the rain forests of
Brazil is using computers to pinpoint
changes in a complex ecosystem that may
go unnoticed by the naked eye of conserva-
tionists, no matter how keen.

radiotelemetry collars, which send signals '

’ anIBM

Sophisticated radiotelemetry collars are
allowing scientists to determine how far
animals like the giant pandas roam, a
crucial piece of knowledge needed to set up
reserves.

The collars are also being used to

determine mating patterns, feeding habits
and life cycles o‘fa number of animals:
“ Plants eaten 'bythe giant macaws of Peru
and okapis in Zaire have been chemically
analyZed to determine their nutritional
value.

_ “Until a few years ago we couldn’t do
things like, this because we were less
scientifically oriented,” said Rob Bierre-
gaard, senior Scientist on the World Wild-
life Fund’s forest ecosystems project in
Brazil. . .

For the last eight years, Bierregaard and
his colleagues have been collecting reams
of information about Brazilian birds, ani-
mals, plznts and insects and feeding (it, into

dmp‘uter. . ,
Their goal is to determine how defores-

tation’ affects the patches of tropical rain

forest left by developers. I!
“The problem with the tropics is that it is
so complex, it has so many variations, the
patterns are beyond the vision of mortal
humans," ,Bierregaard said in a recent
interview. ' ‘ ‘ .
“A computer can sort through all. the
background noise and see subtle '
changes.”

Bierregaard, an ornithologist,
wrote a’ number of the computer
programs used in the project him-
self. But an increasing number of

‘ programs designed specifically for
conservation biologists are availa-
ble on the market.

’ “You can buy programs on the
home range of animals and on bird
capture records," he said. '

Another ornithologist, Charles
Munn, dedicated to saving the
massive brightly feathered macaws
of Peru, talks computers, powerful
binoculars and slingshots.

He devised the slingshots, used ‘-
to projectclimbing equipment into
lSO-foot-tall trees, from equipment
Used in his undergraduate days at
Princeton University. ‘

“They would put a loop of surgi-
cal tubing across the window
frame, put a funnel in the middle
and a water balloon in that, then let
loose on anyone unfortunate
enough to be in the quad,” he said
of his classmates. . '

“When I had to-figure outhow to
get lines in trace, it sort of came.
back to me,” he said in a telephone
interview from his Philadelphia
home. ',

“A lot of thisjwork is 'sort of
old-fashioned. gnuity, mother-
of-inventioi'ii'st- "' he said. “But

. the technological advances have
- been a tremendoﬂ help."

Munn does not collar his birds
but watches them through state-
of-the-art "binoculars and tele-
scopes while perched in trees 100
feet off the ground. His observa-
tions about their nesting patterns
and feeding habits are recorded on
a computer he keeps at his base
camp on the forest floor.

This year, he started recording
the massive birds with video cam-
eras supplied by a businessman
interested in natural history.

Plant Specimens Analyzed .

Several years ago Munn collect-
ed specimens of plants eaten by the
three-foot parrots and sent them to
Harvard .-.;,:for analysis. The tech-
nique, which allows conservation
biologists to understand the nutri-
tional and fiber needs of the species
they study, is becoming more and
more routine.

At the Bronx Zoological Garden,
nutritionist Ellen S. Die’renfeld re-
cently showed-off a clean antiseptic
laboratory in the 200’s multimil-
lion-dollar medical center. Scien-
tists there recently completed a
massive project involving animals
in the zoo and in the wild that
showed many species need vitamin
E to procreate.

“The research from the field has
helped tremendously in the zoo in
terms of saving endangered spe-

. cies,” said Dierenfeld, who keeps a
computer list of recipes for the

zoo’s 658 species of birds, reptiles
and animals—75 of which, are en-
dangered and four extinct in the
wild.

“‘It’s not enough to put down a
plate of food that looks like some-
thing they eat in the wild,” she
said. “Knowing their vitamin re-
quirements, bulk, fiber, all of that,
is important to keep them healthy.”

D

Conservation biologists said
much of their research has ended
up in the eager hands of zoo
drectors attempting to maintain
and breed animals in zoos that are
vanishing fast in the wild.

At the Bronx Zoo, two giant
pandas on loan from China, a surly
female named Yong Yong and an
adolescent male named Ling Ling,
are fed bamboo shoots flown in
fresh from Atlanta twice a week.
The pandas arrived for their six-
month visit from China with a staff
ofthreeandthezooassignedtwo
other keepers to them full time.

(over)

 




Durban (South Africa) Sunday Tribune DURBAN. APRIL 22. 1934

Mystery of the 10 000 slaughtered elephants
SA ’ 5 pa rt in
W scandal

 

 

 

 

 

By Graham Ferreira j

 

MILLIONS of rands worth of ivory, one of the
world’s most valuable and carefully con—
trolled, commodities, is being smuggled
through a South African pipeline.

This is revealed by massive discrepancies be-
tween import and export figures, accounting for
the tusks from some 10 000 elephants.

A Sunday Tribune investigation has shown that a
South African connection is making millions of rands
movmg ivory of “questionable origin” on to the world
market. Conservationists believe the huge quantities
being exported from South Africa — nearly a hundred
tons in the past two years — could be the notoritous
“Savimbi ivory”. '

Rebel Unita leader Jonas Savimbi has been con-
demned by conservationists world-wide for the whole-
sale slaughter of elephants in Angola.

They believe the ivory is being smuggled illegally
into South Africa where it is “laundered” with legal
documentation and then exported.

 

War finance

Dr Savimbi has often said ivory helped finance his
war against the Angolan Government.

The Tribune’s investigation has shown:
0 Ten times as much ivory has been exported from
South Africa as has been officially imported over the
past two years. These figures are reflected in trade
statistics.
0 The balance could not have been made up of legal
ivory from inside South Africa because the only legal
source is ivory from elephants culled in the Kruger
National Park. Little, if any, Kruger ivory was export-
ed during the period.
0 South Africa is handling nearly an eighth of all the
ivory exported from Africa — far in excess of the
proportionate numbers of elephants in the region.

. O The “Savimbi’s ivory” has not come to light legally

on any of the usual world markets.

In terms of an international convention (CITES) to
which South Africa is a signatory, ivory leaving or
entering member countries must carry detailed docu-
mentation.

Hr Clive Walker, director of the Endangered Wild-
life Trust and an ex " on the ivory trade, said he
would like to know w the extrajivory was coming
from. ,

“It can’t be from Botswana because no hunting is

 

allowed there.

“Likewise, it can’t be
from South West Africa
-— and even poaching
there has been under con-
trol for the past two
years. .

“Nor can it be coming
from Zimbabwe, because
we know where that
ivory goes and it is not
exported through South
Africa. >

“The evidence suggests
the ivory is coming from
Angola. If this is so,
somebody is going to
have to do some explain-
ing.

“Conservationists do
not have a clear picture
of how many elephants
are left in Angola, or how
many have been killed in
the bush war.” k .

0 'tion spo esman
on egmnmental affairs
Roger Hulley said the
Tribune had revealed
some disturbing facts
and that he would table
quesﬁons in Parliament.

 

The Tribune estab-
lished that most of the
legal ivory in South Afri-
ca was bought by two
manufacturing firms to
be worked into trinkets
sold locally and overseas.

The subject of this in-
vestigation is unworked
ivory — for centuries a
way of moving money
from place to place.

 

A famous tusker

Shingwedzi, one of the magniﬁcent
large tuskers of the Kruger National
Park, was a legend in his lifetime. He
was named after the Shingwedzi River,
where he spent much of his time until he
died in 1981. aged 56 years. All the
exceptional bull elephans in the north-
east Kruger are now ﬁtted with radio—
collars so that if they move into areas
along the Mozambique border. where
poaching is a danger. they can be driven
to safer areas.

 




 

Wﬂ/

 

 

 

 

     

 

Windhoek (Namibia) Observer April 1984

Savimbi, have you

secrets?

STAFF REPORTER

Perhaps the time is over-
due for the business
Frama Inter-Trading of
Johannesburg, to make a
statement and to clear the
air.

There arrived at Groot-
fontein hundreds of tons
of super teak, the trunks
so heavy and so aged,
that they are not from
South West Africa, and
if they are, the time has
come for the multi-gov-
ernment system to see to
it that local consumers
have ﬁrst option of that
teak.

The timber comes from
somewhere. All inquiries
led to nothing, but the
piles of wood have sudd-
enly become smaller and
smaller at the Grootfon-
tein railhead, until they
have virtually disapp-
eared.

Now it has been discov-
ered that they are carted
to South Africa in contain-
erised trucks.

What is going on? If it

 

___________________________________________________________________________________ “4...-..“

is a South_West African
asset, an immediate stop
must be put to it. Why
must South West African
builders and carpentry
shops ,import wood at
backbreaking prices from
South Africa, if the
Territory has such suppl-
ies of its own? If the teak
comes from Angola,
something must be done
because the Lu'anda
Government had given no
one a concession - and
that we have on record -
to take such an asset
from its soil. .

If this trade is not prop-
erly explained by a state-
ment, the Observer
pledges that it will discov-
'er the full picture of what
is going on.

There are some ugly
rumours attached to that
trade across the bridge
at Bagani - some of them
so ugly that only the
fate of being incarerated
in a cell of the Windhoek
Prison. stops us from
telling the public what
we know. ' ’

 
 




The
David Sheldrick
Wildlife Appeal

PO. Box 15555

NAIROBI, Kenya
'Tel 891996

3rd March, 1988

Christine Stevens,

President,

Animal welfare Institute,

2.3. Box 3650,

WASHINGTGN, 33.6. 200;; ....U.S.A.

Dear Ms. Stevens,

Thank you most sincerely for a very generous contribution to help us in our
efforts to save Kenya's elephants. This is deeply appreciated, and every
cent will benefit the cause in the most direct way possible, since we deduct
no overheads whatsoever from donated funds.

I really feel that the plight of the African elephant is more serious than
that of the rhno, for rhinos are Solitary animals, and can survive happily

in fenced Sanctuaries under close protection. The elephant, however, is
declining in all Black African states at an alarming rate. The recent count
done in the Tsavo National Park alone has revealed that only 5,000 elephants
remain, where 10 years ago there were 20,000, and 10 years previous to that,
35,000. At this rate of decline, the elephant could disappear within the
next 20 years. They need a lot of country, and in Kenya, if they cannot
survive in the giant Tsavo National Park, they are doomed, I fear.

It really is an international problem, for as long as people want ivory, and
purchase it, elephants will be killed. Halting the markets is the only

way that elephants will be saved, and so, yes, I would be most interested in
receiving details of the legislation you hOpe to see enacted to curb the
illegal ivory trade. In the long term, however, legal ivory will also

have to become ‘illegal‘, for as long as there is legal ivory, illigal ivory
will filter into the system under the guise of being legal.

I now have 4 baby elephants to care for. One has reached the age of one year,
which is a great milestone in his life, since we have had him from the age of 3
weeks. The other little fellow is just 8 months old, another is in Tsavo
with our adult erstwhile orphaned elephant, ”Eleanor”, who is now 30 years old,
and of her own volition retains her links with humans. The latest arrival

is from Lewa Downs in Northern Kenya, and all are orphans.

Once again, our grateful and most sincere thanks for your very useful donation.
We appreciate your assistance immensely, and we are proud that you have chosen
us as the vehicle through which your concern for elephants will be projected
towards their survival.

With best wishes , Most sincerely, \ QPW (\ZJZIJJL‘k.

m Dap e She apldm/ .

An African Wildlife Foundation Project Donations to AWF/ David Sheldrick Wildlife Appeal

 

 




MONITOR MEETING *** FEDERAL REGISTER NOTICES *** December 14, 1987

PERMIT ISSUED

 

Gulfarium Federal Register: 11/30/87, p. 45478
Hwy 98 ‘ For further info, contact Ofc of Pro-
Fort Walton Beach, FL 32548 tected Species, NMFS, 1825 Conn Av,NW

Wash DC

Permit P20D was issued 11/24/87 to Gulf Exhibition Corp. to take two
Atlantic Bottlenose Dolphins for public display.

PERMIT APPLICATIONS

 

Robert Moore Fed. Reg.: 12/3/87, p. 46008

New Baltimore, MI Comments, within 30 days, to

PRT 723223 Director, FWS, Box 27329, Central
Station, Wash DC 20038-7329

To purchase in interstate commerce from Southwicks Wild Animal Farm,
Inc. Blackstone, MA, and export and reimport one female Asian Elephant

 

for enhancement of propagation and survival of the species.

Hawthorn Circus Corp.
Grayslake, IL
PRT 723369

To purchase two female Asian Elephants from Bensen's Animal Park,
Hudson, NH, for conservation education purposes. The applicant

' tends to export and reimport these elephants and travel within the
U

s

 

.S. for "performances to educate the public with regard to the
pecies' ecological rule and conservation needs."

PERMIT MODIFICATION

1 Gerald Joyce Fed. Reg.: 12/2/87, p. 45840

:3 . ' 8
. 1.».
‘93;
’15..
l ‘ W

Permit No. 570 was issued 11/14/86 and is modified: Section A.2. is
added: "No more than 200 Minke Whales may be harassed while attempting
to radio tag and track up to 18 minke whales." Section B.6. is
modified: 2. The authority to take by harassment, tagging...etc. shall
extend through 12/31/88. Effective 11/24/87.

 

PROPOSED RULE Fed. Reg.: 12/4/87

 

Fish & Wildlife Service proposes to reclassify the Alabama Cavefish
'from threatened to endangered under the Endangered Species Act of
1973. The critical habitat designation would remain unchanged. The
fish is known only from Key Cave in Lauderdale County, AL. Comments
must be received by 2/2/88; public hearing requests, by 1/19/88. For
further information, contact James Stewart, U.S. Fish & Wildlife,
j*( ackson Mall Office Center, 300 Woodrow Wilson Ave, Jackson, MS 39213.

 

,3 FINAL RULE Fed. Reg.: 11/27/87

 

(:0qu Effective 12/28/87, regulations to establish requirements for marking
\ASOS ‘Lcontalners ofTTTEE'HF~WITdfle‘fhat are im53FFEHT”€YESFF§dT*Ur“”‘_‘

MT transported in inEE?sf§te commerce. 1 ents are esigned to
0\j\&5 :be consistent with Eﬁ€“EYT§f1ng commercial practices of those

cmé industries that must comply with them. For further info. contact
GUNW Thomas Streigler, FWS, Bx 28006 Wash DC 20005 (Tel: 202: 343—9242)

 

 

 




INTERNATIONAL WILDLIFE COALITION

 

 

 

 

 

 

(.iovw nun;
Board of [rush-vs

('hunnmn
. , \x

Vu‘e (Thainnan
."L'lii'illlt’ll [St‘fwt
(II/H ()f’ll‘l.1lltl’l‘-v(’Illxx'

!)('illld Hm!
‘ 'LI .II'I‘ III/i \ I\‘I

Secretary
R [)mnl i \kld't'
M:‘/l<'/.;s’ "IJ/Mt/(I

International Offices

lWC Washington. hf.
kw», ll'xlw.¢‘4\\
‘\.t H gr '

ka' lluhlqum!m~.
".."l\xxfl(,m1 \H
\‘\V up lg. ill 1'

“NR MlLqu"xl
< . Rf». ~l
11‘ \

Hwy .1 Kingdom

"‘ ~ll'

Marian Newman
I’I'm/I’dlll UIIULIUI

[807 H Street NW.

_ ‘ Washinqlnn. DC. 200(le
, 2 02 - 3 4 I - 082 2
SUPPORT NEEDED FORfELEPHANTjPROTECTION ACT

\\ '6‘;

W”

On 23 July Congressman Anthony Beilenson (D-CA) introduced the
Elephant Protection Act, HR 2999 which would ban all U.S. trade
in elephant ivory and other elephant products.

When introducing the bill Congressman Beilenson stated "During

the last two decades there has been a steady and drastic decline

in the population of elephants...Much of this decline is attributed
to poaching, the illegal killing of elephants to obtain their
valuable ivory tusks for sale...the US still imports a great deal of
worked or carved ivory that is worn as jewelry."

Unfortunately the bill is presently being weakened hith proposals
which would allow for the continuation of ivory imports. The only
deterrent would be a small tax on these imports at the point of
entry.

It is important that concerned animal welfare and conservation
groups not allow this strong and greatly needed bill to be weakened
to a point at which it would have no impact on the killing of the
African elephant.

It is important that interested groups write to their members
urging them to write their Representative and ask that he/she
co-sponsor HR 2999. At present there are only 39 co-sponsors.
Additional co-sponsors would be a strong indication to the
Committee that there is widespread public support for a total
ban on all ivory imports.

Elephants have alrady been eliminated in areas of Zaire, Central
African Republic, Uganda, Chad, and Sudan. In every other country
where elephants exist they are declining except for South Africa.
Only eight years ago the elephant population was estimated to be
over 1.2 million animals. Today it is no more that 500,000 animals
with little hope that this dangerous trend can be reversed unless
nations take strong measures to halt the importation of ivory.

Passage of HR 2999 would would stOp a great deal of the unnecessary
killing and would set a precedent for other countries to ban ivory.
It would also eliminate tremendous suffering of tens of thousands
of these highly complex and intelligent beings.

If you have any further questions please contact Marian Newman
at 347-0822.

 




Top (1.3. Target
‘ In Heroin Trade
Seized at Hotel

Agents Use Ruse to Lure
Suspect From China

 

 

By LEONARD BUDER.

Federal agents, using a ruse to lure
him to the United States, have arrested
a fugitive Chinese businessmen de-
scribed as the Drug Enforcement Ad-
ministration’s most—wanted heroin
trafficker. ,

The United States Attorney in Brook-
lyn, Andrew J. Maloney, said the sus-
pect — Kon Yu-Leung, also known as
Johnny Kon —— was “probably one of
the two or three biggest heroin dealers
,in the world.” .

Mr. Kon was charged, in a Federal
indictment unsealed yesterday, with
smuggling or attempting to smuggle
1,000 pounds of heroin into the United
States from Southeast Asia between
January 1984'and last December, when

,the indictmentwas handed up by a
'grand jury. ‘- .

The 1,000 pounds of heroin, Federal '

“authorities said, had an estimated
wholesale value —— the price at which it
would be sold to dealers — of about
$100 million. The retail, or street, value
was said to be about $1 billion.

Of the 1,000 pounds of heroin, 570
pounds were seized by the authorities
before the drugs could be distributed
on the streets. The heroin had been
smuggled into the United States hidden
in suitcases and in shipments of vases,
ice buckets, T-shirts and wall plaques,
the indictment said. -

‘Almost Mind-Boggling’

“Clearly, the levels of heroin we’re
dealing with here are almost mind-bog-
gling,” said Robert M. Stutman, the
head of the New York office of the Drug
Enforcement Administration, who
joined Mr. Maloney in announcing the
arrest of Mr. Kon.

The officials said Mr. Kon, who is 40
years old, was listed as the administra-
tion’s “No. 1 heroin target” for the last
two and a half years. .

Mr. Maloney, the chief Federal
prosecutor for the Eastern District of
New York, said Mr. Ken was believed
to have invested $12 million in real es-
tate in Queens and about $8 million in
property in San Francisco. He said the
Government would seek to Obtain this
property through forfeiture.

Mr. Kon’s arrest by eight Federal
drug'agents took place without incident
at about 10:30 PM. Sunday outside the
New York Hilton Hotel, at the Avenue
of the Americas and 53d Street.

Mr‘. Maloney said Mr. Kon,'who had
stayed the night before at the Doral Inn
at 541 Lexington Avenue, near 49th
Street, had been lured back to United
States by a ruse by the Federal drug
agency. But neither he nor others
would detail the ruse. .. -

 

THE NEW YORK TIMES,

\

TUESDAY, MARCH 15, 1988

‘Highly Creative’

“All we can say at this time is that it
was unique and highly creative,” said
Catherine E. Palmer, an assistant
United States Attorney assigned to the
case. ’

Before his arrest, Mr; Kon had din-
ner at the Hilton, which, the indictment
said, served as a base for his illicit ac-
tivities in New York City. ' _

Also arrested Sunday night was a
former New York City police officer,
John Routollo, who was taken into cus-
tody at his home at 1 Stone Bridge
Road in Montclair, NJ. He was
charged with conspiring to import her-
oin into the United States and with
other‘drug charges, officials said. '

The authorities said agents found 20
handguns and a shotgun in Mr. Routol-
lo’s house. The former officer, who left
the police force in 1981 after 17 years,
made use of his position in the Police
Department’s firearms licensing unit
to‘supply weapons to Mr. Kon’s organi-
zation, Mr. Maloney Said.

Shortly after these two arrests, the
Hong Kong police arrested Mr. Kon’s
brother, Kon Yu-Son, and his sister,
Kon Pui-Fong, on similar charges.
Both had been accused in the Federal
indictment and authorities in New
York said they would act to have them
extradited to this country.

Mr. Maloney,'at a news conference in.
his office at the Federal courthouse in
Brooklyn, said Mr. Kon, who was born
in China, first came to the drug agen-
cy’s'attention when the Hong Kong po-
lice seized 250 pounds of heroin, be-
lieved to be destined for the United
States. The shipment was on a fishing
trawler in the Hong Kong harbor.

- . An ‘International Gypsy’

Mr. Kon fled Hong Kong and became
an “international gypsy” to elude ar-
rest, moving between Thailand, Tai-
wan, Japan and Manila and shifting his
operations to Paraguay, Bolivia and
Panama, the Federal prosecutor said.

Ms. Palmer, the assistant attorney

. on the case, said Mr. Kon had six bogus

passports from different countries
under fictitious names. When he was
arrested, he was using the name Ricky
Wong and had a false Costa Rican
passport.

She said that, in addition to real-es-
Etate holdings in the United States, Mr.
Kon had a number of businesses in
other countries, including several fur
companies, a trading company and a
watch manufacturing company. .

At his arraignment yesterday in Fed-
eral District Court in Brooklyn, Mr.
Kon said he had no money or assets.
Judge Thomas C. Platt ordered that he
be held without bail.

 

 

 

 




‘ Sea of blood

f d l ' h' #
o o p ms

By Robert Whymant in Futo
THERE ARE mornings when the sea at Futo is thick
with the blood of dolphins. Their last battle for life,
churning the Japanese harbour into crimson foam, is

not a sight for those with weak stomachs. Once they
are winched ashore, no part of the animal is wasted.

Fishermen keep the heart
to eat themselves. They say
it gives them stamina.

Japan is the only country
engaged in commercial dolphin-
hunting on a large scale. An
estimated 20,000 are killed each
year.

The government has until
now managed to keep this fact
from the outside world. Indeed,
many Japanese are unaware the
slaughter is going on.

Despite an international out-
cry several years ago, when dol-
phin killing near Nagasaki came
to light, the practice has contin-
ued unabated.

As whale meat becomes more
expensive, due to an interna-
tional ban, it becomes increas-
ingly proﬁtable to hunt dol-
phins. There is no equivalent of
the International Whaling Com-
mission to protect dolphin
interests.

At Futo, the ﬁshermen are.

thinking of calling an end to the
season. Sixty miles south-west
of Tokyo and well off the main
road, this is one of Japan’s main
dolphin-hunting ports. .

A reconnaissance boat leaves
port before dawn. If a school of
dolphins is spotted, up to 60
ﬁshing boats, called in by radio,
assemble for the hunt.

Fleeing before the din of the
boats, the terriﬁed dolphins are
chased into a narrow bay, then
trapped in nets and stabbed
with picks and knives.

“Dolphins have more blood
than humans,” said one ﬁsher-
man, “so it’s very good for'our
health to eat them”.

In December, they caught
about 1,400, one of the biggest
hauls in recent years. But in the
past two months, the catch has
been dismally low—“a hundred
or so”, the ﬁshermen say—and
local restaurateurs are com-
plaining about a shortage.

False ﬁgures

“We don’t have enough to
satisfy customers in both our
restaurant and hotel,” said one
of the owners of the Genpei Inn
in nearby Kawana. .

At one time, ofﬁcials at the
local tourist oflice promoted
dolphin cuisine as a tourist
attraction. But most of last
year’s catch was served up in
Nagoya as a substitute for dwin-
dling supplies of whale.

Futo, with 1,159 households,

'is Japan’s oldest dolphin-hunt-

ing port. Others include Iki,
near Nagasaki, and Taiji, 1n
Wakayama, central Japan.

THE DAILY TELEGRAPH, SATURDAY, MARCH 5, 1988

 

According to ﬁgures from the
local ﬁshing co-operative, 1,815
dolphins were caught in Futo
alone last year. But Mr Kenzo
Shinoda, director of the capi-
tal’s National Nature Preserva-
tion Society, said the ﬁgures of
dolphins caught around Japan
were invariably understated for
tax and other reasons.

Slaughieiea: Dams. staineb a, death,lare hauled out as.

He said: “We found that usu-
ally the catch is double the
reported ﬁgure.”

According to the World Wild-
life Fund, slightly more than
20,000 were caught in 1986 in at
least 10 places across Japan.

In Tokyo, government oﬁi-

cials are reluctant to discuss the
dolphin hunt. But when

(London)

.._‘. ,.._-__. ‘ . ..~ , . \ﬁf.\\~'x" .,.
'1 -. ' “\M’Wm'.’ .-

rev.”

bay

we.“

4%,?_ .-.- ..

 




 

(continued)

pressed, the Fisheries Agency
conﬁrmed that dolphin-hunting

‘ _was going on and said it was

justiﬁed on economic grounds.

“They have to earn a living,”
said Mr Toru Sakuma, an
agency ofﬁcial.

He seemed worried about
what might happen if the
slaughter came to the notice of'
animal lovers overseas. “We
are a bit concerned that the
ﬁshermen would have trouble
continuing the dolphin hunt if it
meets the same harsh interna-
tional reaction as whaling,” he
said.

- One Japanese critic of the
practice said: “The fact is that
dolphin killing is only a sideline
. for these people.

“In Futo, last year’s turnover,
from dolphins was 25 million
yen (just over £100,000), only 10
per cent of the co-operative's
total turnover, and the operat-
ing proﬁt reported was .less
than half this. ‘

“In Taji, an old whaling port,
some whalers have now turned
to hunting dolphins as the whal-
ing industry is run down due to
the International Whaling Com-
mission's ban. In Iki, the ﬁsher-
men grind the carcasses into
ﬁshbait, ,a useful addition to
income.

“But in none of these centres
is the dolphin an important
source of income—far less an
economic necessity.”

Some observers say that
Japan, one of the world’s rich-
est countries, could pay the dol-
phin hunters to stop the slaugh-
ter for a fraction of what Tokyo
spends on public-relations con-
sultants in America, who are
hired to polish Japan’s poor
image as a major exploiter of
wildlife resources.

Outcry over massacre

However, Mr Tomoyuki Hiyo-
shi, chief of Futo’s ﬁshing co-
operative, tells visitors: “We’ve
been doing it for over 100 years,
and I don’t see why we should
stop.”

Hﬂg” i s __(_l.ef ensive andmw_a_ijyh_gf

Westerners. The rare foreign
visitor excites suspicion. The
ﬁshermen become tight-lipped.
They recall an American envi-
ronmentalist who, cut ﬁshing
nets at Iki eight years ago to
free 300 trapped dolphins.

That followed an interna-
tional outcry in 1978 over news

of a massacre of dolphins,

which were being ground into
fertiliser at Iki.

Worldwide condemnation
embarrassed the government
into pledging that it would seek
a humane way of driving the
dolphins away from fishing
grounds where they were
“stealing” the ﬁsh.

For four years, scientists
tested radio and sonic waves,
and even plastic whale “scare-
crows", without success.

“Thedolphins kept coming
back," said Mr Sakuma, who

said the animals were again
being killed. .

Fishermen. and government

ofﬁcials see no moral objection'
. to turning a quick yen from

nature’s resources. The govern-
ment’s attitude is that dolphin-
hunting is all right as long as
Japan can get away with it. For
eight years, the hunt has
escaped publicity. ' -

Resigned to killing

The World Wildlife Fund’s
Tokyo office says it is aware of

the hunt, but appears resigned'

to the killing, only protesting
when dolphins are killed ”ac'ci-
dentally” in the course of nor-
mal ﬁshing operations.

Mr Shinoda does not agree
with this. He said: “Animal
lovers everywhere should
appeal to the mayor of Ito city
(of which Futo is a part) to stop
the senseless slaughter.”

As the season at Futo winds

_down, the dolphins are few.

Some locals believe they have
been over-hunted. One said with
concern: “The morning sea at
Futo is now regaining its natu-
ral blue”. .

“We hope we’ll get one more
chance before the season is
over,” said the ﬁshing co-opera-
t_i_VJe_.’_§._.c_h_is.f_-___.B.u_t_.,, hedxdnot

 




Japan

A better sort of bribe

FROM OUR TOKYO CORRESPONDENT

HE power of money runs so deeply

through Japanese politics that it
prompts two questions. First, why does it
happen? Second, why does the ﬂow of
money not eat into the stability of the sys’
tem? The smell of scandal is more evident
now than at any time since the Lockheed
bribery affair in the mid—19705.

Already this year two senior members
of the ruling Liberal Democratic party have
been affected. Mr Hideyuki Aizawa re—
signed from the chairmanship of they lower
house’s judiciary committee after allegav
tions that he had evaded tax on ¥ZOOm
($1.6m) made from playing the stockmarket.
It has now been disclosed that Mr Koichi
Hamada—who resigned as chairman of the
budget committee after calling the leader of
the Communist party a murderer—had
given each of the opposition members of his
committee gift certiﬁcates worth ¥IO0,000.
Then there is Mr Fujio Tashiro of Komeito,
the party that wants more propriety in gov—
ernment. He resigned his uppervhouse seat

after being charged with taking a ¥10m
bribe fromatrade association. . ' .
Japan’s top public prosecutor, Mr

-:,

of Tanaka

/
r/

Take the case

Shigeki Ito, who retires this month, says

, that during his career he has questioned

more than 100 politicians in connection
with corruption allegations. Last year 478
people were arrested on bribery charges,
210 of them government ofﬁcials of one
sort or another. A dozen were city mayors
or other local'government heads.

This looks like being another vintage
year. An ofﬁcial of the state agency that
builds main roads in Japan has been
charged with taking a ¥Z.5m bribe to award
contracts to a favoured construction ﬁrm.
Members of the staff of the public—housing
agency have been accused of raking off what
may turn out to be ¥lOOm a year from sub!
contractors. A former city mayor is accused
of taking a ¥5m bribe to backdate an appli'

cation for a new golf course so that it beat a .

building ban.

The system holds up because Japan
runs on a mixture of what might be called
distributive politics and mutual beneﬁt.
Politicians are expected to distribute to
their constituents the goodies big and small
(ranging from public'works contracts to
places in posh schools) which they can ex—
tract from the government, and which the
still highly regulated Japanese economy pro«
vides in abundance. In return for a continu«
ing ﬂow of largesse, their constituents vote
them back. into power. That provides a

' framework in which favours are given, and

obligations built up: abuse can slip in all too
easily.

The system of multivmember constit—
uencies gives this practice a further twist.
Usually politicians are competing chieﬂy
against rivals from within their own party
rather than from other parties. So it is imv
portant to build up your own support sys’
tem, independent of party. Such a system
provides the politician with money which
lets him secure the inﬂuence he needs to lay
hands on those vote—ensuring goodies. The
members of his support system, usually
businessmen and local worthies, expect ex!
tra beneﬁts—either protection of privileges
they already enjoy, or new ones. The spiral

- THE ECONOMIST MARCH 12 1988

goes round and round.

This mutual dependency is one reason
why the system does not fall apart even
when the return of political favours crosses
the divide into outright corruption. The
beneﬁt gained is a communal one. Most‘Jap
anese politicians see money as a way to env
hance their inﬂuence rather than as some—
thing to pop into Swiss bank accounts.
Corruption damages Japanese politics be
cause of the erosion of public trust in the
system, not by the ﬂight of capital.

Elections and lobbying are costly.
There are legal restrictions on how much
money a company or individual can give to
a politician, but plenty of ways round the
rules. Two favourites are fund—raising par'
ties and “support groups”, which are often .
no more than fronts for peddling cash, far
vours and inﬂuence. A former deputy
prime minister, Mr Shin Kanemaru, is at
present ensnared in a fundraising scandal.
It is alleged that the accounts of one of his
support groups, the Fugaku Politics—Eco
nomics Research Society, whose member'
ship comprises some 30 big construction
companies in Tokyo, show donations of
¥13m to ﬁve nonvexistent organisations.

The path between political donations
and bribes is narrow. The supporters of the
Komeito man, Mr Tashiro, say that the
¥10m he is alleged to have taken from the
National Federation of Private Gravel and
Stone Shippers to press the transport minv
istry to change some irksome regulations is‘
little different from the ¥60m in legitimate
political donations the federation made to
him for the same purpose.

The wide acceptance of the system
helps to explain why Mr Tashiro is thought
to be merely unlucky, while Mr Aizawa was
condemned for seeking personal advantage
(even though taXeevasion is a national pas;
time). It also explains why conviction on
corruption charges is often no bar to re—
election. Mr Kakuei Tanaka, the former
prime minister, has been returned to parlia'
ment ﬁve times since the Lockheed scandal.

In the latest general election he got one of
the highest votes of the whole poll.

 

 




SOCIETY FOR ANIMAL PROTECTIVE LEGISLATION
P. O. Box 3719
Georgetown Station
Washington, DC. 20007
(202) 337-2334

March 22, 1988

T0: Don Berry, Lori Williams, Gina De Ferrari

FROM: African Wildlife Foundation, Animal Protection
Institute, Committee for Humane Legislation, Fund for
Animals, Greenpeace, Humane Society of the United
States, International Wildlife Coalition, Society for
Animal Protective Legislation.

Thank you for the Opportunity to meet with you and other
members of the staff of the Merchant Marine and Fisheries
Committee concerning the legislative efforts to protect the
African elephant. We have been receiving a great deal of
mail on this issue from our more than one million members
nationwide. In response to your request for suggestions we
would like to submit the following:

1) To meet the criticism that single species legislation is
inapprOpriate, we would support a ban of all wildlife
products from any nation found to be violating the criteria
established by the bill.

2) Individuals representing the interests of the
organizations listed above should be members of the advisory
committee.

3) The bill should provide for a) additional law
enforcement and b) education of the American public that
purchase of ivory is anti—conservation.

4) Specific requirements for enforcement of the Act by the
Fish and Wildlife Service should be spelled out.

5) Authorized funds should be allocated only to the
governments of African nations with a population of elephants
in the wild and which are adhering to all CITES requirements
and criteria of the bill. The Act should ban import of ivory
from all countries that do not have elephant populations
living in the wild, including intermediary countries.

6) As noted in our earlier submission, we consider it
essential to provide a reward of at least $25,000 for
information leading to the conviction of violators, and to
provide for a permanent ban on elephant products if the
Secretary of the Interior in consultation with the Advisory
Committee determines that CITES has been unable to stop the
decline of the elephant population.

7) We are Opposed to a bill with a tax on ivory.

 




Checking the Pulse of PitCon ’88

At PitCon ’88—otherwise known as the Pittsburgh Conference and
Exposition on Analytical Chemistry and Applied Spectroscopy—exhibited
instruments capitalized on improvements in existing technology rather
than novel concepts or design. This year’s models feature increasing
automation, particularly for aspects of sample presentation. The 1988
generation of so-called hyphenated systems emphasize a combination of
techniques within the same work station—gas chromatography to detect
and separate organic contaminants combined with mass spectrometry to
identify them, for example. And in keeping with strict environmental
standards, many companies are stressing the ability of their latest

instruments to detect levels of environmental pollutants in the parts per
billion, rather than parts per million, range.

PitCon ’88 lured more than 25,000 participants to New Orleans for
the week of 22 to 26 February. Approximately 830 companies displayed
their wares at 2400 booths, and it took two separate facilities to house
them. Specialized symposia on advances in spectroscopic, chromatographic,
and electrochemical techniques increased in number as did the number of
individual talks and posters. And new this year were three general interest
symposia—identifying antiques by spectrochemical techniques, cholesterol,
and drug testing in the workplace.

 

Probing the Authenticity

of Antiquities

with High-Tech Attacks on a Microscale

Analyzing and dating antiquities has be-
come an art form in and of itself. But an
underlying problem in many cases is how to
analyze the art object without damaging it.
The solution seems to lie in a combination
of scholarly research and the methodological
repertoire of the modern analytical chemist,
who can apply high technology to a micro-
scopic sample of an artifact that is thousands
of years old. Participants in the symposium
entitled “Identiﬁcation of Antiques by Spec-
trochemical Techniques” described their ap-
proaches for determining the composition
or authenticity of ancient art objects.

Some analytical chemistry techniques are
used to determine the composition of art
materials and yield clues as to how the object
was crafted. Others are used exclusively to
date and authenticate an object. Still a third
category of techniques accomplishes both.
By analyzing the composition of particles
that are sometimes so small that they are
invisible to the naked eye, researchers can
analyze both the composition of the sample
and judge its authenticity.

“In 1818 Sir Humphrey Davey presented
a paper to the Royal Society on the colors
used by the ancients in painting,” says Patri-
cia Lang of Ball State University in Muncie,
Indiana. “He prided himself on not damag-
ing the piece and said that he used mere
atoms in his analysis. So it is not surprising,
some 170 years later, that scientists are still
trying to sample and analyze an art object
without damaging it.”

Lang analyzes paint fragments from
paintings or manuscripts to determine their
authenticity by using Fourier transform in-
frared spectrometry or Raman spectrome-
try coupled with microscope accessories.
She reported preliminary data on her analy-
sis of illuminated manuscripts from the Byz-
antine Empire in the 12th century. “Even
though this was the Dark Ages in Western

1374-

Europe, it was one of two cultural high
marks in the Byzantine Empire, where the
art was primarily in the form of illuminated
manuscripts,” she says. Monks painted these
manuscripts and they describe the life of
Christ.

“The Byzantine paint samples are a mix
containing many components,” said Lang.
This makes its composition more difﬁcult to
analyze and Lang uses spectral subtraction
to detect the individual components. For
example, a yellow pigment contained kaolin
(a ﬁne white clay), calcium carbonate (the
major ingredient in chalk and limestone),
and egg yolk. The egg yolk helped the
pigment adhere to the parchment paper and
the calcium carbonate made the color more
opaque. Lane also found pigments that con-
tained white lead, ultramarine blue, and a
red pigment that she thinks is cochineal,

University of Chicago Library

Illuminated manuscript. The
manuscript is from the 12th-century
Byzantine Empire.

which comes from a scale insect that only
inhabits warm, dry climates.

Victor Bortolot, founder of Daybreak
Nuclear and Medical Systems in Guilford,
Connecticut, has a completely different ap-
proach to dating art objects. “Thermolumi-
nescence dating is a technique applied to
inorganic art objects like pottery or to other
mineral materials that have been heated past
500°C at the time of interest, for example,
when the pottery was ﬁred,” he says. “It
should be compared to radiocarbon dating.”
The latter is used to determine when organic
materials were alive and is limited to approx-
imately the last 30,000 years because the
signal decreases with time. But thermolumi-
nescence (TL) of an inorganic object that
has been ﬁred increases with time.

“Thermoluminescence is the light emitted
as an object is heated,” says Bortolot. “The
effect of TL is induced by radiation.” The
basic principle of the technique, he says, is
to measure the accumulation of a dose of
radiation since an object was last heated up.
When natural crystals form, they absorb
ionizing radiation from the environment
which then serves to generate electrons that
become trapped in the irregularities of the
crystal. If inorganic material containing such
crystals is heated, the electrons are freed,
photons are produced, and the result is
thermoluminescence. The amount of light
given off is proportional to the radiation
dose. When Bortolot uses TL to authenti-
cate the approximate age of an art object, he
takes several small powder samples of the
object and subjects them to a known dose of
beta radiation. To apprOximate the age of
the ﬁred object, he compares the TL ac-
quired in samples that receive the known
calibration dose of radiation to the TL in
other samples from the same object.

TL dating is most accurate if several sam-
ples from the same archeological site can be
analyzed and averaged together and the
radiation of the site can be determined. But
for authenticity testing, the error rate may
be fairly high—plus or minus 30%, accord-

SCIENCE, VOL. 239

 




were at the beginning of the simulation.
Duncan and his colleagues suggest that the
gravitational pull of exceptionally large com-
ets within the belt might stir it up enough
from within. Additionally, Neptune might
be pulling in a trickle of comets whose
closest approaches just bring them within
Neptune’s inﬂuence.

Another problem is the need for a belt
that is massive enough to supply the comets
but not so massive that it unduly perturbs
the rest of the solar system. Perhaps the
most sensitive indicator of an unseen per-
turber would be the orbital motion of Hal-
ley’s Comet, which spends most of its 76-
year orbit in the vicinity of Neptune’s orbit.
Donald Yeomans of the Jet Propulsion Lab-
oratory has calculated that a comet belt at 40
astronomical units having a total mass equal
to that of Earth, a modest size for the
hypothesized belt, would have twisted Hal-
ley’s orbit a few thousandths of a degree
from the position predicted assuming there
were no belt. No such perturbation was
detected this time around, notes Yeomans.

A close-in belt of 1 Earth mass is “most
inconsistent with what Halley’s orbit has
been over the past several centuries,” says
Yeomans. “If you want to move the belt, say
out to 100 astronomical units, that con-
straint goes away.”

These problems would become academic
if someone caught a glimpse of the belt
itself. One member of the belt may already
be known. Chiron is an oddball member of
the solar system, as black as a comet nucleus,
as big as a large asteroid, and orbiting
between Saturn and Uranus in an unstable
orbit. If there are 100,000 comets inside the
orbit of Uranus, as the simulations suggest,
and if they have a reasonable range of sizes,
“the existence of an object as bright as
Chiron inside the orbit of Uranus is not
surprising,” writes Duncan. Only one in a
hundred thousand members of the belt need
be as large as Chiron for there to be at least
10,000 belt comets of magnitude 22, which
could be detectable.

As Tremaine points out, with that many
objects near the ecliptic, the element of
chance is removed. An observer can concen-
trate on detecting faint objects in one small
area without worrying whether he picked
the right spot. “There’s a fairly good chance
that with a concerted effort something can
be found,” says Tremaine. One search is
already under way, others are being consid-
ered. The Hubble Space Telescope, sched-
uled for launch in 1989, would greatly
simplify the search. I RICHARD A. KERR

 

ADDITIONAL READING

M. Duncan, T. Quinn, 8. Tremaine, “The origin of
short-period comets,” Astrophys. ]. Letts., in press.

18 MARCH 1988

 

 

F ermat’s Theorem Proved?

For the ﬁrst time in memory, the mathematics community is optimistic that its
most famous open problem—Fermat’s Last Theorem—may ﬁnally have been
proved. Experts are poring over a proof recently completed by Yoichi Miyaoka of
the Tokyo Metropolitan University, currently at the Max Planck Institute for Math-
ematics in Bonn, West Germany. Although no one will be completely conﬁdent
until all the details have been thoroughly checked, those involved feel that Miyao-
ka’s proof has the best chance yet of settling the centuries-old problem. Until re-
cently, serious mathematicians have shied away from working directly on Fermat’s
Last Theorem—it was considered quixotic to be working on a 350-year-old prob-
lem.

Fermat’s Last Theorem asserts that the equation x" + y" = z" has no positive in-
teger solutions x, ,z if the exponent n is greater than 2. French mathematician
Pierre Fermat stated this “theorem” around 1637 in the margin of a book, with the
tantalizing remark that the margin was too narrow to include the proof. Mathema-
ticians have been trying to widen that margin ever since. Fermat himself did actual-
ly write down a proof of the theorem for the exponent n = 4, and Leonhard Euler
contributed a proof for n = 3. In the 18403, Ernst Eduard Kummer set up a math-
ematical theory that enabled him to prove the theorem for a large number of expo-
nents. By last year improvements on Kummer’s work, and high—speed computers,
had enabled mathematicians to prove Fermat’s Last Theorem for all exponents up
to 150,000. Furthermore, it has been shown that counterexamples would have to
be extremely large, with x, y, and z each having hundreds of thousands of digits.

Mathematicians are optimistic for Miyaoka’s proof, in part because it is based on
new ideas taken from a previously untried source: differential geometry, a branch of
mathematics best known as the setting for General Relativity. In the 19708, S. Ara-
kelov and other mathematicians in Russia began the task of making arithmetical an-
alogues of results in diﬂerential geometry. Their ideas reached a milestone in 1983,
when Gerd F altings, now at Princeton University, developed them into a proof of
another important problem in number theory known as the Mordell conjecture.
(The Mordell conjecture is much younger than Fermat’s Last Theorem; it was for-
mulated in the 19203.) One consequence of Faltings’s result is that the Fermat
equation has only a ﬁnite number—presumably zero—of different solutions x, ,z
for any given exponent n. (In the theory, two solutions are considered the “same”
if one is merely a multiple of the other, such as 3, 4, 5 and 6, 8, 10 for n = 2.) Fal-
tings’s coup led mathematicians to think that many old problems in number theory
and algebraic geometry might be accessible to the new methods.

Miyaoka’s work involves the arithmetical analogue of one of the deepest results
in differential geometry: a fundamental inequality involving certain topological in-
variants of surfaces. (A simple example of a topological invariant is the number of
“holes” or “handles” on a surface, such as the hole in a doughnut and a handle in a
coffee cup.) This inequality was proved true in 1974—by Miyaoka, who is a recog-
nized expert in differential geometry. (This is one reason why mathematicians are
taking his work on Fermat’s Last Theorem seriously.) The connection of the in-
equality with Fermat’s Last Theorem was made about a year ago by A. N. Parshin,
a Russian mathematician, who proved that if the arithmetical analogue of the in-
equality is true, then Fermat’s Last Theorem is also true. In other words, Fermat’s
Last Theorem would be a simple corollary to a much deeper theory. Miyaoka has
now apparently put on the crowning touch by proving the arithmetical analogue of
his own inequality, thus completing Parshin’s argument.

Tempering their optimism, mathematicians also express caution at this point. Ex-
perts in the new theory are only now starting to check Miyaoka’s proof, and it may
take weeks or even months for the theorem to be accepted with conﬁdence. In a
sense the proof is like a carefully thought-out, very complicated computer program
that has not been run very often—the logic looks good, but there may still be bugs.
However, even if mistakes are found to invalidate Miyaoka’s proof, the basic ap—
proach is considered promising. I BARRY A. CIPRA

 

Bany Cipra is a mathematician and writer based in N orthﬁelel, Minnesota.

 

RESEARCH NEWS 1373

 

 




HVTEWHMATNDWHMLIdﬂlLHJFE’CZL4LIEMlN

 

 

’vﬁk‘ﬂéﬂ Kglé-‘ggw‘?’

"When an animal is shot and has his face sawn off
with a chainsaw just to satisfy a demand for ivory
trinkets and fancy jewelry, you cannot just sit
back and accept it!"

Dear Friend,
These chilling words are from Ian Redmond. We've been helping Ian and his

special elephant program, called the African Ele—Fund, in an attempt to try to
stop the grisly murders of elephants for their ivory tusks.

 

The enormity and cruelty of the elephant massacres is almost beyond
belief. The poachers' weapons include: automatic rifles, spears, snares, and
poison. Their greed is insatiable.

So easy and callous is the killing that even baby elephants just three
years old with tusks no larger than pencils are being slaughtered!

You may remember how last month we helped Daphne Sheldrick build a new
stable block to house the baby rhinos put in her care by the Kenyan National
Park authorities. I've received news that she has taken in a new tiny orphan
—— an elephant. His mother was shot by poachers.

Where Daphne is working in Kenya, eighty—four percent of the elephants
have been killed off by poachers. And even though Kenya has a total ban on
private ivory trading, the deaths continue —— the body count rises.

And as unbelievable as it may seem, in other African countries the
situation is far, far bleaker —— the elephants have almost disappeared
altogether. In most countries their numbers are now less than 1/10th of what
they were just a few years ago!

In Zambia's Luangwa Valley, an area once noted for its high elephant
population, scientists estimate that brutal killings continue at a rate of
nine per day! In 1976, in the national parks of the Central African
Republic, there used to be over 100,000 elephants. Since then, ivory
poachers have reduced the population by a staggering ninety—one percent!

 

Last November, the British magazine BBC Wildlife ran a fascinating —- and
deeply disturbing —— article by Ian Redmond. It was about elephants in
Kenya's Mount Elgon National Park —— elephants that actually go into caves
underground in search of salt. Ian was in the park two years ago studying
these elephants and was writing about his return there this year.

 

His old friends, the park's game wardens, met him with horrific accounts
of death and butchery. Since February 1986, hundreds of the rare

 

[0ver, Please]

320 Gifford Street, Falmouth, Massachusetts 02540

 




underground elephants had been killed. Indeed, there had been a Virtual war
between the wardens and the poachers.

Military—style, the poachers had blown up bridges to hamper the work of
the rangers and were even using anti—tank weapons to kill the elephants! At
one point the entire park had to be closed down for three months and the army
and police brought in to fight the poachers with modern helicopters and
armaments.

 

In just the three months from January to March 1987, eleven poachers were
captured and imprisoned, forty-two elephants were killed, and uncounted
numbers were wounded —— only to slowly die days or even weeks later from
infection or starvation.

By May of 1987 it looked as if the poachers had been beaten and that the
elephants would be safe. The park was reopened. On July 8th, a group of
Kenyan tourists visited caves at Mount Elgon in hopes of seeing the last of
the underground elephants.

They were sitting quietly at the mouth of the caves as dusk approached.
They saw a small herd of elephants approaching. What they didn't see
were the poachers taking up positions above the mouth of the cave.

As the elephants peacefully began entering the cave the thugs opened fire
with their small caliber machine guns. Horrified, the tourists ran for their
lives! The elephants died ... the larger ones were found later with their
faces cut off with Chainsaws.

 

Ian now believes there are only 50 elephants left out of the original 500
he studied at Mount Elgon. These unique subterranean elephants may not
survive the ivory trade's poachers —— unless we do more!

Elephants have lived in Africa for millions of years. They are
the largest land animals and their appetites are, of course, great. They
roam over vast areas daily eating many different types of plants. To
the casual observer they appear to destroy young trees as they crash through
the vegetation. The process, though, is natural. Elephants are actually
Africa's gardeners.

They open up the forest to light so that seedlings can grow, dig up the
ground turning under the decaying plant material (nature's compost), and
manure the soil —- a prodigious 300 pounds per day per elephant. And they
carry seeds in their dung, scattering them over a vast area. All vital,
life—giving activities in the African ecosystem.

There is a special harmony of life in Africa made possible only by the
elephants. It is a harmony that poachers and ivory dealers are destroying.

In a very real sense, when you save an elephant, you help save the

[Next page, Please]

 




African environment and all the animals it contains. If not stopped, the
ivory trade and its hired guns are going to drive the elephant to the
absolute brink of extinction —- as they have the rhino.

 

Ivory is being smuggled out of Africa in huge quantities. Most of it goes
first to the Far East for carving, but then it comes here to the United
States or goes to other Western nations.

Every piece of ivory carving sold in the United States or, indeed,
anywhere in the world, directly causes the slaughter of more elephants. It's
estimated that 3/4ths of the ivory available today was acquired illegally!

Dr. Ian Douglas—Hamilton is probably the most respected biologist studying
elephants today. He has just co—authored a study for the United Nations
Environment Program and his words succinctly spell out the tragedy:

"There are now 109,000 left, but if the 'harvest'
continues at the current level the East African
elephant would be finished in eight years.

"... if the off take for ivory is not drastically
reduced, we can expect to lose all the major
populations of elephants in the great national
parks of East Africa, other than small remnants.

"The dramatic collapses we have seen in the past
decade ... have been caused by ivory poachers, not
by farmers taking elephant land. Some of the

worst elephant catastrophes have been in
[protected' areas with no human population at all!"

 

On behalf of the elephants, I am appealing for your help. Right now the
International Wildlife Coalition is working to protect the elephants on a
number of fronts.

1) In Kenya's Tsavo National Park, we are helping Daphne
Sheldrick and the orphaned elephants with food, shelter
and veterinary care. These helpless animals are only
alive because they had yet to grow tusks when their
families were slaughtered.

2) Our Washington, D.C. staff is working to get a bill
enacted into law that would ban the importation of ivory
into the United States. If successful, we would eliminate
over eighty percent of the worldwide ivory trade!

 

3) Also in Kenya, we are helping Ian Redmond and his African

[0ver, Please]

 




Ele—fund stop the poachers that are killing the
underground elephants at Mount Elgon.

The warden at Mount Elgon, Mr. M.B. Amoko, has told us
that his most urgent need is to get his anti-poaching
vehicles fully manned and back on the road.

Of his eight vehicles, six are off the road either

needing spare parts or new tires. For anti—poaching work
in the Mount Elgon National Park minimum repairs will cost
$6,500. The 1988 annual maintenance budget for adequate
patrolling will top an estimated $25,000.

It's imperative we launch a campaign in the U.S., Britain
and Europe to publicize what the ivory trade is doing to
elephants. We must convince people they must not buy
ivory. It's a simple economic fact that if the people in
the U.S., Britain and other European countries stop
buying ivory —— most of the illegal, murderous butchery
of elephants will stop!

I urgently need your help for the elephants. Right now we do not have
enough funds to adequately fight the ivory trade and their army of poachers.

We are not even maintaining an adequate holding position! We are losing —-
and that means the elephants are losing.

Please —— on behalf of Ian's underground elephants —— on behalf of the
elephants in Namibia, Zambia, Kenya, Central African Republic —- will you
make a contribution to help save these magnificent animals?

With hope,

”mar

Daniel J. Morast, President
International Wildlife Coalition

P.S. Enclosed with this letter is a ban—the—ivory—trade postcard. Please
send it to your representative in Congress and ask that he or she co—sponsor
Congressman Anthony Beilenson's Elephant Protection Act! If this U.S. bill
becomes law, eighty percent of the ivory trade would be wiped out ... eighty
percent of the all the elephants killed for bloody greed would be saved!

 




    
 
 
 
  
     

STOP THE ~
IVORY
TRADE!

The
slaughter
of these
magnificent
creatures
MUST end.

 

 




 

 

    
  

 

The Beauty

Ivory
means Death

ants

 

   

 

Eighty percent of all elephants killed die for x
the (LS. ivory market. Support the Beilenson
Elephant Protection Act —
AND DON’T BUY IVORY!
ﬁned?

INTERNATIONAL WILDLIFE COALITION

 

  

 




   
  
 
 
 
 
  
    
     
    

Save the Elephant —
Stop the Ivory Poaching

It is vitally important that every US citizen
write their congressman in Washington, DC.
Tell them you want to support Congressman
Anthony Beilenson’s Elephant Protection Act.
Only when the United States is closed to ivory
jewelry and carvings, will the elephants be safe.

 

‘1}:‘3‘?

INTERNATIONAL WILDLIFE COALITION

 

Entire families are massacred,
almost all for the U.S.
Ivory market.

[WC veterinary advisor,
Dr. William Jordan with
an orphan elephant
rescued in Kenya.

  

These ivory poachers were caught in the act.
Unfortunately, the demand for ivory jewelry and
carvings is so great in the United States that the
illegal slaughter continues almost unchecked.

 

 

 




ANTHONY C. BEILENSON WASHINGTON OFFICE:

230 DISTRICT, CALIFORNIA 1025 LOIEGSNZORJSSBZEDTG 20515
) - 1

LOS ANGELES OFFICE:
COMMITTEES:

COMMITTEE ON RULES @Ungregg at the mnitgb gtateg 11OOOVV('2L:’;|)R:OBSO:J7L;\(/)A1HD90024

VALLEY OFFICE:

PERMANENT SELECT 3901158 0f Bﬁptﬂgﬁntatihﬁg , 1849‘ BURBANKBOUL‘VARD

. v , CA 91356
COMMITTEE ON INTELLIGENCE ARZANA

Washington, IBﬂ 20515 f ' (818)345-1560

Ms. Odette Grosz
222 Harrison Avenue
New Orleans, Louisiana 70124
Dear Ms. Grosz:

Thank you very much for letting me know of your support
for my bill to help save the African elephant from
extinction.

It is gratifying to know that you share my concern for

the survival of this beautiful species, and we are hopeful

that the House Merchant Marine and Fisheries Committee's

Subcommittee on Wildlife Conservation, to which the bill has
been referred, will take action on it later this year.

It was good hearing from you.
‘ “Mgincerely,y

ANTHON C. BEILENSON
Member of Congress

 




Ayril l? EQBS

ﬂea: ﬁriena:

A seriaus emergency hag ﬁeen gauged by the wildlife criminaig
wha havg arganiaeé gangg cf poacharg t9 kill eleghantg far
their tusks.,

Itgg not easy t0 learn abaut the wealﬁhy ivory ﬂea

are benefiting Exam the high yriae 0f ivaryg @ut 3

our best inform&tion, therg are only a few zaally a
Ogeratora.

rhinaceros harm ayhzeﬁiaiacsg anﬁ éruga a3 wall &3 the
illicit ivery, One has get a? more tham 68 Oriental carvets
in tha Uniteé Arab Emiratea im Qréer t0 avoié even the maéest
contrelg exercised by the intarnational treaty eatitleﬁ
Conventian an Zntarnatianal @raﬁe in Endﬂngered gyacies Qf
mild yauna anﬂ Flora {CETES}. Althaugh ﬁubai ig Qua of tka
financial capitals of the world? the Uniteé ﬁrab Bmiratagg
where it is Situateﬁg h§$ §la§ §overty a& the reagan for mat
paying itg small dues in CI?E§ anﬁ has openeﬁ itaelf mg far
uncentrelleé traﬁa in illegal ivery!

@he ruthlesa imtexnatian&l ﬂealeza hav& aven armeﬁ @ygmies in
zaire‘s farasts to track down the alaghants thﬁreg ﬁany
ganga of yoachera are meta gawerfully armeé tﬁﬁn tha ﬂew
deéicateﬂ warﬁens in African countri@s whe try t0 gratect the
elephants in their national parka. ﬁftentimag the wardena
are murﬁereé along with thE eleghgnta they are trying to

”’4:

preﬁerve.

"Our yeagle are ﬂying at the hanﬁa cf @Qachergf" gaia Parez
Olinﬂo, ﬁirecter oi Kenya‘s Wilﬂliﬁa Congervatian anﬁ
management Beyartment. Ea anﬁ his gauntarparﬁs in $azzania
anﬁ Zaire called the gmaching "ecanamie warfare." ﬁbaele
ﬁankotog heaﬁ of Zaire§3 ﬁalegatiem t9 the lagt meeting sf
CITEﬁ, entareé a strong pleﬁ far the eleghantg themsalvesg
calling them "theae who ara angent... Elephant ﬁapulﬁtiang
are ﬁecreasing evary day. ﬁeanwhileg illegal traéﬁ centinmés
at a gallop.“ Be characterizeé the ﬂaalerg a3 “gangsterg
like Al Cagoneg”

If the goaching and amuggling centinueg eléghants will SOQE
became extinctg and thig juat at the time when naturalists

 




MMMMW1MM 31111 MM ﬁleiﬁaﬂfw 1a*cMM1: natiMM 13311111 11M
lMMrMing MMrM1;11MMMMM Mvez MMMM myecth MMMMM thM

intelligMncM, MMM Md11raMlv 1MMMMKMMMM MOMiMl 11111, Mag {
11111.1(}? 11511211112; 311113355 if} V11131Ch {xiéﬁi31lﬁdﬁt 513:9 (1131-1. 1.0 LUfi‘ifﬁUﬂiCth
with MMM MMMMMMM MMMM MMMM MMMMEMM M MW MilMM Mi MMMM 11.né

j111~MmJ11MMMM 11MMMQME 511..1MM1 My CynthiM M9881
~riMMM 13 MMMMM 1M 1M ’“~ .f MM MEMMMMMM 11M11y1
M111MM MMJMM M MMMM1MM 1 1 1'; M Mumma MM11MM are j11Mt
MM MM Mars 1 1M1M Mzimto 1M DMMg1MM MM111“M MMM
MMMMM MMMMMM MM MMM MfriMM: MlMMMMMMV MMM t MMM devate his
:M MUIVQV“ M1 MIMMMMMM §Q§Qlﬁti0ﬁﬁg whish MMVM 1M11MM
MMM1¢1121 MiMEiM MMM MMMM ﬁMQMQMM MMM MM MeriMing
“MM 101 MMM MarvivorM 10 the MMMt 01 M11 MM2111§

M
if?"
{1" {Z}

'3'...
i”)

. ‘ j.
. ‘ a

3'1 9"
4 M
A
M13 ":1 -, . "

E

,1;

x

111:;
01‘15’111111311‘1

{“1131

3

F". . .33.
’13 {“3 i“ 1 ‘2!
5"}. 1.;

1m;
5?} it"!
{’3
i” 1” 5":
ﬁnd?“

”EMMMM1MMMM MM§M111113 the WMMM1HM Mf Gﬁﬁtha MM< MEMMMMMMM
M111 MMlM M MMMMMM M MMMMI M1 MMM gzMuM MM Staﬁﬁg hoiﬁing MM:
up MM MMMM MMMM. MMMM hvVM MEMMM MMMM MMMMMMMM 1M MMVME aver
MMM 01 MMMir MMMM :1311M MMMmczaMM MMM lMMVMM. QynMMiM MMMMEM
M001 MMMMM MMM MMMM MngMh M1 MM MleMaapr MMM thMrMMM
MMMMMMMM1y GVMK M 10MM MeriMﬂ 01:11MM is tha MMMM MMMMM Mex
MMMMMM‘M M1M11 11’ . MMM MMQMM MMr IMMMMMMM MM 1 MM: Mall”

loveé MMrMm1 in M MMiMM MMM MMMMM1Mg MMMMM11

MEMMM magﬂifiCéﬁtg langw11VMd CEMMtuEQM
MM! 1 MzinkMMM MMMM erM thMi: MMMMM; MMMMMM
langMz. MMMM 1M MM} 1 MM writing tM yam
MMMng yam: 1M1M 1011Mam1 an M11MM11MM MMMMMigM MM MMVM MMM
MEMMMMMMM. M- MMMM MMMM their Ml1gh1 MiﬂMly MMMMM. MM must
Mlavaufqu MMM MMMCMMMM of ivarya MM must MnMauzagM MtrMMg
Vewu1 MiMMM MMM .2» 10 MEMMMMM ilngMl ivory 110M MntMrng
MMM MM11MM MMM1MM. MMMrly all M1 thM MMIMMM 1VMry 101 MMIM
in MM1 Mauntrg MMMMM erM Mang Mangg MnM M1 M1 MfficiMlM arM
MMMM1 to Metthime 11M 1Mgalitya ,1 must MM MMMMMM if MMM
Mi-MMMMMM MMM ta MM MMVMM. TMM MMaﬁl’ MMchcy Murrﬁunﬂimg
MMM 1v91y Mrade nMMMM MM MM Minlﬁﬁteﬁ

TMM MMMEMZ MMMM
thulﬁ 11M 10:
MM 101M KMMMM MM?

1"!

MMiM MMMMMMng Mad MangermuM M011 *1uu1re" MMMMinM 11 it 1M
1M MMCCMMi MlaMMM MMkM a MMMMMion to MMVM MMM MlthMnMM anﬁ
1M1 11 MM MM MMMMMMMM MM yMM MMM MiMly can Make it, 101 the
11MM 1M MMMMM and MMMME May MMrM M‘MMMMMMM are MMng
MMiMfully pMiMMMMM1 MMMMMM; SgMaXMﬁ; Mr MMM1 M11h automatic
Wﬁayomﬁa M MMl1wMMdrMMMMd MMVMlOMM 1M MMClMMMM far your
MMMVMMiMMCM. All MantriMutienM MM the Amiﬁ‘ 1M1 Meiware
1MM111M1M are MMMMMMiMlM 3M MMMMMting income 1:11.

Mincerelys

4

ChrthiMM MtMVMMM
MrMM1dMM1

MnClQMMIM

 




. V THE WATERHOLE by Patrick Mavros
JEWELRY by Patrick Mavros

SABLE by Patrick Mavros
v ' - ‘ ivory 51/2"h x 7"w $5250
Ivory Bracelet with 18kt gold $2900

ivory 51/2"h x 7"w $3200
16" ivory and silver necklace $540
20” ivory and gold clam necklace $3800

All ivory carvings and jewelry by Patrick Mavros has been

cleared by the U S Fish & Wildlife Service

WARTHOGS by Terry Mathews
bronze 11"hx17"w #5/10 $5000

GREYHOUNDING BLUE by Kent Ullberg

bronze

MARSH MASTERS
17"h x 21”w #4/10 $3800

by Walter Matia
bronze 25"h x 13"w

#8/10 $3800

 




3.1 3 T")’

1':
’1

33 .313: 333-333 3.3. 3333- 333123333
, 1}

““ maﬁa 3 3331 33 .3333;
R33 333 33.- 393.3 1333

 

1313;331:313 313;" 333-33133 533311333313 31333:;-
‘H- Y 3 - 1' ‘ .1.-
has [13:1 t \ bb1.‘3_3
7 (\ 3
13 1““ 33.3;{13‘15-301‘3

3‘3: 3:1}: 3 .13 i 3 313113.:

- 3-3 31-.33‘12113'2
3.3 1 3' 1 3-
{X337 3‘33” 1 i

if a 3. > I“
W31111-3-11‘111K113113333”:

Uri-13313331 313'! 3333:3111. 233/3313

3‘313'113.

3313331211!

13 1‘ :51 11 k

\W 1 I 32.1 133 B3 11133
Richard 33 (Casey
13333331113113 1*in
Franc 1' '2. (“301313313

33. . 1- . 3.. ,
UIL‘ 0.33!- 11.33 f3_331.-333\’Ei.

“1:34", _
373333.403 N13315::
3.3 33/3331 3

l

\| ‘1‘ ' ‘1 ‘ a¥ V A 7 ~
Vi“ ‘3‘}? £3- 3» 1V13313'1

3733‘3 1:33 3‘ 33 3‘33 31v 13- s

(1‘ _ 1 1 ’ ._ "
..333:133.iey 1\'1(:i3.-:nf3
33131313113 3“»‘31 31133333

(‘3 1‘31 .-
3335331611 161133331131

3131311? (53333333113333
Shayne H‘s—3333333131
Larry 1521333

M e 3. v i 33 J0 332133 se n

M 11 rilyn N ewm 3333:

1333133 Paravzmn
1 310131313 C 3 3mm

‘1

\‘-' 4'
,1,,3,

133 33.331331333-15

“C .
311‘ '7

v3 111333?

3
303333": 33:113333333 (r
333,331“. 3: U l 1333-:
A3 ":13 1-1 3 x"W3: :51\'3:

”3-133-333-3313; 323-333.. Z2333337

‘,~*\ ~~ 1‘
2-13-331‘3335: 53-113 :11113

(7

Arthur 511133331113:

jnhn A $721333
M id‘s-ad \X/331‘re3'1
3013.31 R WIN-353333

1\ 1 3113311 W’é-‘ﬂer

53:3 31‘ 3 “413336761“

‘3~3E@3h

'1 '3"

 




1988 CATALOGUE

a
LI.)
,_l
é
c3
0
g
M

 




SUNRISE by Lanford Monroe oil on board
framed size 171/2 x 231/2 $2500

HUNTING PRONGHORN by Ron Soodalter
fire startervfossil walrus 31/2"h x 11"w $3000

GRIZZLY BEAR by Ron Soodalter PRONGHORN by Ron Soodalter MOUNTAIN GOAT by Ron Soodalter
ice ax’fossil walrus 2%"h x 9”w $2200 toolvfossil walrus 5"h x 11/2”w $750 spearhead—fossil walrus 31/2"h x 1%"w $750

TROUT FISHING by Ron Soodalter
net sinkerafossil walrus 3"h x 61/2”w $2400
Cover) HILLSIDE BROWSE—Greater Kudu Michael A Ghaui oil on canvas framed size 32 x 48 $5800

 




GOALS AND STRATEGY FOR WEST AND CENTRAL AFRICA

Goals

To gather information on the status and numbers of elephants in the
rainforest. '

To conserve those large populations of elephants that live outside reserves,
where this is feasible.

To secure within existing and potential protected areas, their
remaining viable forest and savanna,elephant populations, and the full diversity
of their habitats.

To take steps to bring the volume of traded raw and worked ivory to within
the limits sustainable by the present elephant populations.

Strategy

Throughout the West and Central African region, there is an urgent need to
improve the quality of the wildlife staff, to train them, to motivate them‘and
to diminish the incidence of corrupt practices. The rate of poaching them\badly
needs to be reduced. dich—

Within each country, elephant conservation matters should feature as part
of existing or projected national conservation strategies.

Throughout the region, all non-party states should be urged to adhere to
CITES; CITES regulations, in respect of ivory, should be far more strictly
enforced; steps should be taken to monitor, and if necessary reduce, the volume
of worked ivory circulating in the region; publicity campaigns should be conducted_
-“to reduce the desireability of and hence local demand, for ivory within the region*
“all these actions being aimed at bringing closer to equilibrium the demand for
and supply of ivory in the region.

Within the rain forest zone, the most urgent need is to find out how many
elephants are present. Their densities, distribution, total population size
are all virtually unknown, as are present trends and future threats. In one
country, Gabon, poaching is apparently not at present a major threat, but is
likely to become so as the demands of the ivory trade cause international
elephant hunting gangs to look for new sources of supply. These countries
should be assisted to prepare themselves now for this potential threat. Within
the forest zone, particularly in Gabon and Congo, there is an urgent need to
increase the number and efficacy . of protected areas, both of national park
status and those permitting various degrees of exploitation.

Within the Savanna zone the most urgent need is to enforce existing
legislation: the rapid declines in elephant numbers, both in the Central and
West African savannas, due to virtually uncontrolled poachicing, must be
arrested, and this matched to tighter control of the documentation of the ivory
trade.

The majority of the savannah elephants are to be found in protected areas,
and the efforts already under way to improve their management, with international
aid (in CAR, Chad, Zaire, Niger, Ivory Coast, Benin ) should be SUpported,
reinforced, and matched with similar actions in neighboring countries.

Integration of the sole truly Sahelian elephant population, into the
development priorities of the area whete it is to be found (Gourma, Mall)
is a further priority.

 




Janury 7, 1988

The Honorable Sadiq El Mahdi

Prime Minister of Sudan

Khartoum, Sudan

Dear Mr. Prime Minister:

A very serious matter concerning enforcement of wildlife laws in

Sudan has come to our attention. We refer to the arrest of

thrity—one enforcement officers of the Wildlife Administration

Forces. They were found guilty by the internal tribunal, and

twenty-five received punishments. The three ranking officers

were dismissed.

In our View, the charges made by the officers, which resulted in
their arrest and conviction are so serious and important that we
urge you strongly to see that proper authorities conduct a
thorough investigation. The officers were trying to fulfill
their responsibilities to faithfully enforce your government's
wildlife laws. Instead<ﬁfencourgementinn}support from their

superiors, they receiVed arrest and punishment.

The wildlife resources of Sudan are a treasure. Already a number
of Sudanese populations have been driven to extinction. The

decimation of elephants for the ivory trade is a tragedy that

 




should be condemned and stopped.

Wildlife is a natural renewable treasure that plays important
roles :nu maintaining ecolOgical balance emui keeping lands
productive. Wildlife viewing opportunities also can be a great
attraction for tourists, as many other African countries
capitalize on now. Wildlife is much more valuable alive in
healthy populations than dead. Sudanese citizens should not be

deprived of their great assets in living wildlife.

We appeal to you to conduct a thorough investigation of the
charges and to rectify any wrong doing that may be revealed.

Just like Sudanese citizens, the world community is concerned and

watching.

Sincerely,

VY\CN\KQKD(1\

Acting President

CFC/lab

CFC/lab

 




 

Center for Coastal Studies
MEMBERS NEWSLETTER

NOVEMBER I DECEMBER 1987 EDITOR: KAREN STEUER

 

 

COASTAL ZONE MANAGEMENT CONSIDERS
DUMPING IN CAPE COD BAY

J987). These patches appear to be easily disturbed by human
activities, and Stormy has expressed his concern that dredge spoil
dumping in primary feeding habitats may have a detrimental effect
on the right whales through disruption of the characteristics of
the patches on which the right whales are cuing their feeding
behavior. If substantial disruption occurs, the whales may move
to other regions, possibly to areas of substandard forage.

Both Stormy and Richard noted the absence in the
environmental impact study prepared for CZM of an analysis of
the dumping’s potential effects on plankton. Project coordinator
Judy Pederson of CZM responded that a study of dumping’s effects
on plankton would be too expensive. She pointed out that a great
deal of money had already been expended in physical/chemical
studies of the area and conceded that further investigation of the
impacts of the proposal is unlikely.

Stormy has suggested two courses of action for CZM: (1) do
not dump dredge materials in Cape Cod Bay; or (2) dump only
during a very restricted period of the year when right whales are
not present. We await the results.

Dumping in Cape Cod Bay could have hazardous effects on the right whales
which come here to feed and to socialize, like this group of three animals.

The US. Army Corps of Engineers and Massachusetts Coastal
Zone Management (CZM) are considering dumping of dredge
spoils at four sites in Cape Cod Bay. The dredged material would
come from communities surrounding the Bay, from Provincetown
through Duxbury, Massachusetts.

Both Stormy Mayo, Center Director of Research, and Richard
LeBlond, Research Associate in botany, testiﬁed at the public
hearing held at CZM on September 16. Stormy expressed his
concern over the fact that eastern Cape Cod Bay, where two of
the proposed dump sites are located, “is clearly as close to a
critical area for North Atlantic right whales as could be found.”
As most of our members know, the North Atlantic right whale
is the most endangered of all the large whales, with only about
200 remaining in the world. Eastern Cape Cod Bay is used by
20—50 of these whales every winter to feed and nurse their calves.

The preliminary results of the Center’s ongoing right whale .
research indicate that right Whales come here to feed on extremely Among the many behaviors exhibited by right whales in Cape Cod Bay is
thin, layered patChes 0f ZOOPIankton, C0n5i5ting 0f organisms less an occasional breach, such as this one (the ventral, or bottom, side of the
than 3 mm in diameter (see Members’ Newsletter, May/June, whale is to the right in this photo).

 

 




 

RADIO-TAGGING
OF RIGHT WHALES

 

 

 

Jeff Goodyear (in front) and colleague found sea kayaks to be the best vehi-
cle for approaching whales when deploying radio tags; the kayaks are so
quiet that the whales appear to be completely undisturbed by them.

 

Tags which attach to the whale by a suction cup, such as this one (here on
the side of 3 Zodiac inflatable) were designed by Jeff and used on right whales
in the Bay of Fundy.

Research Associate Jeff Goodyear spent a productive August and
September radio-tagging North Atlantic right whales in the Bay
of Fundy (off the coast of Nova Scotia), in a project directed by
Dr. David Gaskin of the University of Guelph. VHF radio tags
designed by Jeff were deployed from a sea kayak, and allowed
the research team to determine patterns of surfacing used by the
whales.

The principal aim of the study was to investigate the behavior
of the whales over periods of 24 hours or longer, focusing in
particular on the amount of time that the animals spent feeding,
both by day and at night. In addition to monitoring tagged whales,
plankton tows were conducted to assess the presence and density
of feed in the vicinity of tagged whales.

A SUCCESSFUL NINTH
TRASH FISH BANQUET

The Ninth Annual Trash Fish Banquet was a roaring success,
due in large part to the ﬁne management of this year’s Banquet
Coordinator, Carol D’Amico, and to Milan and Jeanne Costa,
who donated the use of The Moors Restaurant. More than 150
diners had their taste buds tempted by such mouthwatering
concoctions as Blackened Blueﬁsh, Trash Fish Lasagna, and
Marinated Dogﬁsh.

Many thanks to the following restaurants, ﬁshing boats, artists,
and many others who so generously participated in this year’s

 

 

banquet.

Anna’s

The Boatslip Restaurant

Cafe Edwige

Cape Cod Fish Company
'Cape Cod Seafood Specialties
Ciro and Sal’s

The Cottage Restaurant
Simone D’Amico

"Different Ducks

Dodie’s

Charles Duffy

Fat Jack’s Cafe

The Flagship Restaurant
Fox Run

Front Street

J & E Produce
Juventino’s Portuguese Bakery
Jackson Lambert
Landmark Inn Restaurant
The Lobster Pot

Abby Marchesani

The Mayﬂower Cafe

 

Mazeltov

The Mews

Frank Milby

Napi’s

Oceanic Seafood
Painted Lady Inn
Paparazzi’s

Pearl’s Cafe
Portuguese Bakery
Post Ofﬁce Cafe
Pronto’s

The Red Inn

Misha Richter

Sal’s Place

Serena’s

Shank Painter Printing
Simon’s Deli

Snug Harbor Restaurant
Stormy Harbor Restaurant
Tips for Tops’n
Trattoria

The Whaler Restaurant
Laurel Wimberg

 




A WARNING ABOUT
SCRIMSHAW

For those members who may be collectors of scrimshaw (the
historic whaler’s art of carving on whale teeth), we have a warning.
As most of you are probably aware, the Marine Mammal Protection
Act prohibits any trade in whale products in the US. after its
passage in 1972, although those products brought into the US.
prior to that date remain salable (incidentally, you should request
proof of the import date if you’re considering purchasing “antique”
scrimshaw). Today, scrimshaw continues to be sold on a product
that is quickly becoming just as precious as whale teeth: elephant
ivory.

Africa’s elephant population has dropped more than 36% in
the last six years, largely due to illegal poaching for ivory. In fact,
more than 89,000 elephant tusks are estimated to have entered
the ivory trade illegally last year alone! One of the favorite killing

techniques of poachers is to distribute fruit laced with battery acid .

along known elephant paths—a relatively “safe” and quiet method
for the poacher, who may not want to risk the sound of a gunshot.

Although it is legal to sell ivory in the U.S., it is often
impossible to verify whether that ivory has entered the trade legally
or not. The next time you consider purchasing scrimshaw or some
other ivory trinket, we’d like to suggest that you remember the
plight of Africa’s elephants— and keep your money in your pocket.

AND SO ON . . .
The 1987 Whalewatchz'ng Season

ended on October 25 with ﬁnal sightings of a number of ﬁn and
minke whales, dolphins, pilot whales, and a few humpbacks. We’d
like to take this opportunity to thank the Dolphin Fleet—owner
Al Avellar, Captains Aaron Avellar, Anthony Joseph, Dennis
Waite, Steve Milliken, and Chris Kuhne, along with the entire
crew of all three vessels— foretheir efforts this season. The Center’s
extensive database on whale sightings and behaviors could not
exist without the tremendous access afforded us by the thrice-
daily cruises of the Dolphin Fleet. Additionally, in 1987 the
Dolphin Fleet became the ﬁrst such operation to donate a portion
of each ticket sold to whale research, for which we’d like to extend
our sincere appreciation.

Sea Turtle Conference Development Director
Karen Steuer further pursued her involvement in the conservation
and biology of sea turtles for a week in October to attend the
Western Atlantic Turtle Symposium held in Mayaguez, Puerto
Rico. The conference was attended by delegates from more than
25 nations concerned with the biology and conservation of sea
turtles in the western Atlantic, where six of the world’s seven
species of marine turtles are known to nest and forage. Although
many of these nations differ politically and economically as well
as geographically, Karen reports that political differences were
set aside as everyone came together with a single goal in mind:
the understanding and protection of these endangered animals.

 

Off To Warmer Climes Center biologist Jean

Kenyon, whose enviable exploits of last winter aboard the Sea
Cloud were reported in the September/October 1987 issue of
the newsletter, is off again—this time to Guatemala for an
intensive course in Spanish, then to join Sea Cloud for a winter
in the waters of Baja California, watching the gray whales who
come to the area to mate and calve. Is this really work, Jean?

Congratulatzons to Peggy Christian and Mark
Robinson, parents of Josiah Christian Robinson, born August 19,
1987. Peggy very capably handled CRP’s humpback photo
identiﬁcation work until the birth of Josiah, and also coordinated
the Center’s very successful 7th and 8th Trash Fish Banquets.

Welcome to new staff member Lisa Baraff, who will be
taking over the humpback photo identiﬁcation work previously
handled by Peggy Christian. Lisa comes to us from College of
the Atlantic in Bar Harbor, Maine, where she spent the past six
years working on photo identiﬁcation for the North Atlantic
Humpback Whale Catalogue coordinated by COA. She holds a
B.A. in human ecology from COA.

Wlnter Intern An additional welcome to Laurie
Goldman, presently interning with CRP’s right whale research
project. Laurie holds a B.A. in history from Cornell University
and is an experienced printer as well as a certiﬁed teacher of social
studies.

V0111,” eer S Needed Center members living on the

Outer Cape who are interested in giving a few hours a week to
the Center: we need volunteer help in our darkroom, collecting
weather data, and possible with a few other whale-oriented
projects. If you’re interested and can commit to at least four hours
each week for three months—give us a call! Ask for Joan.

A NEW NAME FOR
THE NEWSLETTER!

Beginning with the ﬁrst issue of 1988, members will be receiving
a newsletter with a new title and masthead: COASTWATCH.
Congratulations to Peter A. Zheutlin of Newton, MA, for his
winning suggestion. Peter will receive a Cetacean Research
program sweatshirt in the new three-species design. The runner-
up spot (a CRP tee shirt) goes to Louise Christie of Mystic, CT,
for her suggestion, UPWELLINGS. Many thanks to all the
members who sent in their suggestions—while the decision was
not an easy one, the staff had great fun with the names!

 




' A n End Of The Yeahan _

’11, to the Internatlonal erdhfe Coahhon whose Whale

} 330 on to the Center in 1337 Thes-».. .

CRP’S humpback research both on “ Ce northern feeding
? grounds and 1111 the We3t1nd1es Additional donations {101111.23
;- the International Wildhfe Coahhon have included a numbe

of “dry suits which will keep Rescue Team mern . '

and dry dunng our efforts to rescue stranded pllot Whales
; * and dolphins 1n the upcoming Winter se * 1131 This“ “011th

Whale Adoptlon PrOJect ' "

The Whale Adoption PYOJBCt currently: has about,v,;§f;,-l.;

‘30 000 “adopters ”i who for a fee of 311

they’d like to adopt from a l1st of 11311111131111 Cape Cod-1,
,: Bay I Stell wagen Bank humpbacks Those who adopt recewe

along With details of the anrmal’s life h1story and at
calendar/m1gratron map Four times a year, the '1
International Wildlife Coalition sends its adopted “parents” ;
recent sighting 1nformation pronded by the Center '
Approximately 2000 classrooms across the country have "

also used the adoption project and its free Humpback Whale

Teaching Kit to further children’s interests 111 whales-,- wh1le' '1

creating a greater awareness of the marine ecosystem
For its efforts to prOtect whales and Other endangered
species wOrldWide, as well as for its generous support of

the Center, the International erdlife Coalition deserves a 1.

round of applause.

Center for Coastal Studies
Box 826

Provincetown

Massachusetts 02657

(3% [1169 «@g £16 <\\\\\»@\W [Mg/é

To All Our Friends and
1 Supporters from the Staff at
‘ : the Center for Coastal Studies
—Best Wishes for a Happy "
Holiday Season and a New
1‘3 Year Filled with Peace and
eHarmony between Humankindsgx
ex and All Other Speczes

;/¢.\ ‘.

Typesetting & paste-up donated by Shank Painter Printing Company, Provincetown

 

Non-Profit
US. Postage
PAID
Provincetown
MA 02657
Permit No. 26

 

 




t was July l987—ju5t two

years since my last visit

to Kenya's Mt Elgon

National Park to make

further observations on
the unique salt-mining ele-
phants—and as I bumped and
slewed along the muddy track
leading to the elephant caves, I
reflected on the rumours I had
heard. ,that heavily armed
poachers were now operating in
the park.

Then the stench hit my nos.
trils. It hung heavily beneath the
trees, out of place in the beauty
of the sunlit forest. As I drove
along. it faded, leaving a linger-
ing taste in the back of my
mouth. Near the path up to
Kitum Cave. the same thing hap-
pened again. but I did not try to
search for the decomposing body
because the sun was sinking fast
behind the mountain. and I was
alone. Shouldering my pack. I
walked up to the cave to settle in
before dark on the familiar rocky
ledge.

No elephants visited the cave
that night. and there were no
signs of recent mining activity.
The next morning I drove round
the lower circuits and found fresh
droppings and signs that an adult
elephant had been tusking the
roadside in search of salt. There
were, thank goodness, still some
elephants around, but how
many? I drove down to the park
headquarters to meet Ben
Amoko. the new warden.

The news was bad~almost as
bad as the rumours. Since Feb-
ruary 1986. the elephants had
been heavily poached for ivory.
The poachers apparently came
from both sides of the Kenya-
Uganda border, which crosses
the summit of Mt Elgon, but it
was clear that the sudden appear-
ance of automatic weapons was a
result of the troubles in Uganda.
By June 1986, the situation was
so bad that the warden felt
obliged to close the park for
three months and bring in rein-
forcements from the Kenyan
army and police-even using
helicopters on occasion. In the
ensuing ‘battle’, bridges were
blown up by poachers to hamper
the movement of rangers (I had
also heard rumours that
poachers had used anti-tank guns
to kill elephants).

By the end of 1986, the attacks
on elephants had, however,
become less frequent, and
between January and March of
this year, 11 poachers were cap-

Without more mone'y4—n'ow—~the
understaffed, poorly equipped forces
who are expected to combat the ivory

proﬁteers will not be able, to stop a
trend that could mean, fOr example, no
elephants in East Africa in eight years.

Ian Redmond reports from the
battleﬁeld and announces the launch
of an emergency appeal.

It» - 'J
V“ ﬂ D U ‘
‘ 5' 'Y“‘ 6’ "?—.'
o ' h :J’I‘gﬁi‘ttf.‘
3". ' . :5
. ""J \ Us ~
. I: .'*‘*~£iimf‘mr
‘h’!‘:’n" if“
31.." ~‘

I
i' 'I. "
V "‘ I.
‘ ‘

tured and imprisoned. The war-
den had replaced three delayi-
dated log bridges with good con-

- crete ones and greatly improved
. some of the park roads. The

Kenyan Wildlife Conservation
and Management Department
(WCMD) had also stationed a
Special anti-poaching unit in the
park.

After 'hearing the warden's
report, I went with one of the
rangers to see the result of the
latest poaching attack. Leaving
the ear where the stench was
greatest. we pushed through the
underngth for about 50 metres
before finding the first carcass. A
heaving mass of maggots spilled
out from under the thick, brown
skin. and bones were scattered
about. Under a thicket I found
the skull. It was not much bigger
than a basketball, suggesring that
the elephant could barely have
been three and aohalf years old.
The calf’s tusks must have been
peneil-sized—what a bloody
waste.

The second body was bigger—
u young male of abour 15 years.
His skull showed that his whole
face had been cut off in a single
plane—confirming rumours that
the poachers were equipped with
chain saws for speedy removal of
tusks.

The attack on the small herd of
elephants had taken place early
in July. The poachers were
positioned on the cliff above the
mouth of Kitum cave, and as the
lead elephant had picked its way
up the steep path to the entrance.
they had opened fire indiscrimi-
nately with automatic weapons.
A party of Kenyan women, on an
outing arranged by the Kitale
Museum, were sitting on the
observation rock inside the cave
mouth. When the shooting
started. they ﬂed screaming all
the way down to the warden's
house three kilometres away.
But by the time the rangers were
mobilised, the poachers had
melted into the night, taking the
ivory with them.

The park staff told me they
had found 42 elephant carcasses
since the poaching began. But if

the July attack was typical, 3 far

greater number of elephants

. must have been wounded, to die
.- days or weeks later. No accurate
‘ ﬁgure exists for the Mt Elgon

 

" Loxodonta africana mother and
7': Child. The poachers will kill for
' Tf'tusks the size of pencils.

. 12/. 37".."r'," . . .

.4

)‘BBC‘WILDLIFE NOVEMBER 1987

4.

In
,.
-

 

 

wvv , ‘V v n

1,.717 r... 7—.

W ‘

 

 

v—urr.




 

‘ . .~. ‘v'
. . . ' ..-. ,
. ,. ,
O " ‘ "‘ '
. . . _ n e ‘ 7‘
. .5. - . - .. ,. _ _ ,
. - o ' ‘ -
A -y.o—~ ....._-....-ou-....~.__u_- -. .a. . -....--..... A... w-gn-...~ “A4.

 

Mark BtmltonliCC'I-Z

-~‘«elephant- “population because of

the difficulty of counting them in
dense forest, but 10 years ago the
estimate was 500. Now some
local naturalists suggest that
there may only be 50 elephants
left. -~

I"?! he elephants of Mount
Elgon are unique because
of their subterranean

habits. but their plight is typical

of elephant populations in many
parts of Africa (see ‘lslands of

Elephants’, taac WILDLIFE.

November 1986). Elephant num-

bers have declined drastically in

the past 10 years, but only
recently have members of the

African Elephant and Rhino

Specialist Group (AERSG)

reached a consensus that the pre-

sent rate of exploitation (legal
and illegal) is unsustainable. Dr
lain Douglas Hamilton, who has
co-authored a major report for
the United Nations Environment

Programme (UNEP) and who

sits on the African Ele-Fund

steering committee. points out
that East Africa has lost more
than half Its elephants In the past

10 years: “There are now

109,000 left, but if the ‘harvest’

continues at the current level

[14.500 elephants killed per year]

1116‘ East “African elephants
would be ﬁnished in eight years.
In reality, we expect the rate of
decrease to level out once they
reach very low numbers."

The downward trend works
out as- --.10 4 per cent per annum
for Kenya, and 3-8.1 per ceni for
East Africa as a whole. 1-0:- West
Africa. the ﬁgure is ~17. 8 per
cent. Only in southern Africa,
where ivory poaching is better
controlled, is there a slight over-
all increase of 0.7 per cent per
annum, but this masks problem
areas such as Kaokoland,
Namibia, which shows a
decrease of 17 per cent, and
Luangwa Valley, Zambia, which
is losing 5.2 per cent every year.
Putting this into ﬁgures, in the
Luangwa Valley there were
56,000 elephants in 1973, 33,510
in 1979 and only 21,900 in 1987.
Comparing the ﬁgures for ‘pro-
tected' and unprotected areas. it
is obvious that anti-poaching
efforts in national parks and
reserves are slowing the decline.
but these efforts are frequently
hampered by the simple lack of
equipment. Mt Elgon is a case in
point.

Though the warden has a fleet
of eight vehicles. six of them are
off the road needing spare parts

‘or new tyres. Mr Amoko told

e' “It would take my entire
anenual transport budget to get
just one of these vehicles fully
repaired and back into action.

_‘ According to the Kenyan WCMD
senior warden, Ted Goss, “there
“is a desperate need for funds to

keep the transport moving, both
for repairs and operating costs.
For the anti poaching work on
Elgon, minimum repairs would

. amount to £3,500. and mainte-

nance costs for adequate patrol-
ling of the park would be some
£15 000per year. “ Not an impos-
sible sum, but of course this is

, just one park out of many.

According to Iain Douglas-
Hamilton, “if the offtake for
ivory is not drastically reduced,
we can expect to lose all the
major populations of elephants
in the great national parks of
East Africa, other than a small
remnant."

In recent years we have seen
just such a catastrophic decline in

~ black rhinoceros numbers. but it

is only now that there is a major
concerted effort to protect this
species. Are we prepared to
watch the same thing happen to
the African elephant?

The time for action is now, and
action means money is needed as

well aS'dedIca‘tIOn.
The African Ele~ Fund appeal

' is being launched In use WILDLIFE

to collect money for urgent
elephant conservation projects in
Kenya and elsewhere. If you
have been lucky enough to see
elephants in the wild or have
watched them on television and
admired their intelligence and
dignity, then please contribute a
few pounds—a little money goes
a long way in Africa.

The African Ele-thd appeal is
being administered by the Inter

national Wildlife Coalition (1 WC
has ofﬁces in Britain, Canada,
USA and the Netherlands), which
means that every penny collccrcd
will go directly to work in Africa.
UK readers should send their
cheques, made payable to the
African EIe-Fund, to [WC/Care
for the Wild. 26 North Street,
Horsham, West Sussex RH12
IBN. If you would like a list of
Ele-thd-raising ideas. enclose
an me with your donation.

STOP PRESS: The East African
Wildlife Society, which is hand
ling the African Ele-Fund in
Kenya. has released emergency
funds to repaiI two of Mt Elgon 5
vehicles.

 

Zambia 5 Luangwa Valley is “one of

ELE'F UN D ONTE M“?

the great wilderness areas of Africa . . .
“Daylight hours . . . are crammed with
delightful and exciting natural his-
tory—lions mating, giraffes browsing;
a monitor lizard caught in the open
thrashing wildly for cover in the heat of
midday. High above, martial eagles
soar, and lower down . . . barriers quar-
ter grassland, and bushes burst with
Lilian’s lovebirds. Pods " of hip-

. p0potamuses lie in heaps of up to 20 at

every turn of the river . . .”—Bruce
Pearson, aac WILDLIFE

The Luangwa Valley is also famous for its
elephants, and for having one of the largest
concentrations of wildlife anywhere in the
world. To take full advantage of this and to
enable visitors to experience the real
Africa, the tour operator Hayes & Jarvis
runs special walking safaris in the valley.

A Luangwa walking safari for two is the
prize being offered by Hayes & Jarvis for
our Ele-Fund contest; the flights will be
courtesy of British Caledonian. Anyone
who donates to the Ele-Fund appeal (the
minimum donation is £1) can enter, and all
you need to do is to come up with the cor-
rect answers to the Ele-Fund questions.

 

1. Your answers. together with your name and address.
written on a piece of A4 paper. must reach us by 18
December. Send them to: Ele-Fund Contest, sac WILDLIFE
Magazine. Broadcasting House. Whiteladies Road. Bristol
ZLR. ' : ~

2. Your entry must be accompanied by your donation—a
ehe ue or PO for a minimum of £1, made out to the African
Ele- und. All the money collected will be forwarded to the
International Wildlife Coalition.

3. In the event of a tie. the winner will be chosen on '21
December by means of a draw.

4. The answers and winner 's name will be published In the
February Issue of sec WILDLIFE. . ,

5. The winner 3 holiday starts at Gatwick airport and
includes all the basic elements outlined In the Hayes Jr Jarvis
1988 Holidays Worldwide brochure (to obtain one, write to
the address on page 592). It must be taken between 1 June
and 31 October (the dry season) 1988. subject to places being
available.’ .

‘

Ele-Fund questions

1 What is the average length of an
elephant’ 5 pregnancy?

2 Does an elephant ruminate?

3 Name three major anatomic differences
between African and Asian elephants.

4 What do an elephant’s tusks develop
from? ,

5 How many kneecaps does an elephant
have?

6 What is the average natural lifespan of a
wild elephant?

7 How many nipples does an elephant
have?

8 Is the African elephant the largest living
land animal?

9 How often, on average, do elephants
reproduce?

10 The generic name of the African
elephant is Loxodonta. What does it refer
to?

11 Is elephant society matriarchal or pat-
riarchal?
12 What,
trunk?

anatomically, is an elephant’s‘

 

 

*—

 

4

. _,.,.._____ l ,

 

 




”an

swans (East African
Wildlife Society)
Mar/Apr 1987

V01. 10, No. 2

ds of elephants

' by Ian Redmond

look! Elephants? Half a dozen pairs of eyes
tollowed my outstretched ﬁnger and a similar
number of binoculars focused on the distant
clusters of grey blobs moving up out of the
forest. 'lhey had been bathing in the Rutshum
River and feeding in the shade during the heat
of the day; now. as the sun sank towards the
Mitumhi mountains behind us, they were
heading out to graze on the open grasslands of
the Pare des Virungas. Zaire. But they were on
the opposite bank.

Santana. our driver. spun the minibus in a
tight turn and we bounced back through our
own dust cloud towards the only bridge: a
quarter of a jotting hour later we were among

14

 

.AsaspedhsthelﬂhkantiadumWIi
notﬂthnmndhwedhngﬂraf
emmmmbnrbutanwnpensemmmx
agnantnhuﬂmrtbegmaueﬂ
knupurnrﬂhmataLAﬁiafshugew“
Amulnuunnmdcamnsnmmnthe .
gnmwﬂbhranmmmurpqpmhﬁhn .
dhqmaaudbrbuularﬁmmnatmty .
huraﬁnehﬂanuMhnahhmtyﬂunk.

IIIIlllllllllllllﬂllllllllll

 

them. Those we had seen ﬁrst were now
spreading over the grassy plain in groups of six
or so ~ clear family units of cows and calves.
with an occasitmal hull here and there — and
more were emerging from the trees. back-lit by
the setting sun. to hurry past this human
intrusion. The light was soon too low for
photography so I just stood and absorbed the
essence of Africa. For a while there was
nothing but forest and warm breeze and grass-
land and elephants - it felt as though we had
slipped back to the Pleistocene, when man
was an insigniﬁcant ape with a few bright ideas.

.But it was 1983 and my tour was getting

hungry. so it was back to Rwindi Lodge

 




.. .-. “c,
' upwardsof 150 elephants.

‘ A few weeks later. with another tour. we
counted l2tl. In l984 it was lltl. It seemed that
Rwindi was one of the few places left where
one could be fairly sure of seeing
upwards of tilt) relaxed elephants that didn't
llee for their lives or react defensively at first
sight of a vehicle. And so when Robin Hellier.
producer of The I'flephrtnt (‘hullengrza
programme in the BBC television series The
Natural World. asked me to suggest a good
location to lilm large herds of elephants.
Rwindi seemed ideal (particularly as we had
plans to lilrn in neighbouring Rwanda).
Unfortunately. we were nine months too late.
Most of Rwindi's elephants had been shot for
their ivory by the time we arrived in July With.

One report. from WWI" News (see Swara.
March/April I986. page 2|). said. “In mid- I985
tourists at Rwindi heard shots less than one
kilometre away. Park guards armed with
(elderly. bolt-action 303) single-shot carbines
went to investigate but were turned away by
poachers armed with automatic weapons. By
the time reinforcements arrived. the poachers
had escaped with four elephant tusks.‘ From
what we were told in Zaire. that incident is
typical of many. Certainly. after several days
searching. the most we could come up with was
a herd of In cows and calves plus three
attendant bulls and. it seems. we were lucky to
find even them in the time available.

And it is the same over virtually the whole
of Africa: more and more reports of well-
armed. well-equipped poachers decimating
elephant populations and out-gunning poorly-
paid. pmrly-cquipped guards. With ivory
fetching up to $l2tl per kilo on the world
market. elephant poaching represents one of
the few ways to ‘get rich quick‘ in Africa.

One solution to the problem - frequently
heard in certain conservation and animal
welfare circles ~ is to ban the ivory trade. It is
a proposal which has led to accusations of
sentimentality and letting the heart rule the
ltead. Dr Iain I)otrglas-llatrtilton. coauthor
ot :lntmrg the lz'lephtmls (L'ollins. W75) and
perhaps the best known elephant biologist.
mints out. however. that ‘l-llephant numbers
are being drastically reduced over most of their
range and that is a direct result of the
increased price of ivory and an uncontrolled
ivory trade. To be acceptable. the trade must
be tightly controlled. But of course those in the
“H rt'y trade lobby will always produce statistics.
of questionable accuracy. to let the trade off
the hook.‘

As elephant numbers plummet. the
demand for action grows louder —- and that is
where the controversy begins. Not everyone
agrees that ivory poaching is behind the
decline.

A leading protagonist of an alternative
view is Ian Parker. author of the book Ivory
(‘raa ((‘hatto At Windus. I983) - in which he
asks the surprising question ‘what ivory crisis‘?‘
~~ and chief consultant to The b‘lephwu Chalv
Ienge. A fonner Kenyan game warden.
farmer. hunter and ivory dealer. he has
become disillusioned with the ‘conservation
establishment‘. which he likens to ‘a grass—
hopper fairground parasitised by bogus
scientists‘. He argues that elephants are being
displaced by the expanding human population.
one svmptom of which is the increase in
txraching. Africa was once a sea of elephants

, . -_ V ‘ , ... , ‘5 .
c i ‘ g . y , o, . $1,. . W. .

Elephant searching the mud beside a waterhole for salt.

with a few islands of humanity; increasingly.
that situation is being reversed as Africa
becomes a sea of people with islands of
elephants. He maintains that a ban on ivory
trading would do nothing to stop this
inexorable process. ‘Conservationists should
stop rushing around trying to save every
elephant everywhere.’ he told me on a recent
visit to Bristol. ‘African govemments have
been fed a lot of woolly ideas about protecting
wildlife. with little thought given to the
practicalities. They should sit down and take
stock. then decide where to concentrate their
limited resources to best effect.

‘If you add up how much money is spent
per year on conservation - some $lhll million
for sub-Saharan Africa. of which $85 million is
in South Africa and Zimbabwe -- then
calculate the cost of running a park efficiently
on a per square kilometre basis. you can then
decide how much land —— and therefore how
many elephants — you can afford. Any over
and above that number you must write off
because if the limited money and energies are
spread too thinly over too great an area. you
could end up losing the lot. Better to be sure of
saving a few.'

Parker points to Douglas-Hamilton‘s 1979
estimate of a minimum of L3 million elephants
and says. ‘The African elephant can hardly be
called an endangered species. but there just
isn’t room in today‘s Africa for that many
elephants. If, after another 30 years we still
have, say. a quarter of a million elephants
living in well-protected parks. being managed
for the income they generate from ivory. meat.
hides and tourism. the species could
be considered safe and elephant conservation a

Deciding which elephants should live and
which should die sounds a little like playing
God. but there are occasions when humans
must do just that: in a field hospital inundated
with casualties. for example. the doctor in
charge must quickly select which patients can
be saved by immediate attention. which can
wait indefinitely and which are beyond hope
and should be put somewhere quiet to die.

’arker feels strongly that the time for such

decision-making ~ painful though it may be -
is long overdue.

One such painful decision conccms
Rwanda‘s elephants. ln W75. Rwanda had two
herds. of 7d elephants each. living in the
Bugesera region. Trapped by the rising tide of
cultivation in this most densely populated of
African states. they were causing almost as
much concem to the Rwandan authorities then
as the mountain gorillas were to do a few years
later. lnevitably. as crops were planted irt their
range. the elephants came into conflict with the
farmers by trampling and feeding in the ﬁelds.
Some elephants were shot and speared; some
farmers were killed; the government appealed
for help from international conservation
bodies and five options emerged. ranging from
total extermination to total translocaiton. lain
Douglas-Ilarnilton proposed that the herds
should be shepherded across 50 or 60 km of
partly cultivated land to the Akagera National
Park using helicopters and/or domesticated

‘ elephants from Zaire a procdure which has

been used on Asian elephants with some suc.
cess. Another plan. which was eventualy de-
cided upon. was to kill all but the easily port-
able young elephants. and use these to establish
a herd in Akagera. Ian Parker’s company.
Wildlife Services Ltd. was hired to do the ex-
termination and an animal collector was taken
on to dart and capture the young ones. The op—
eration went as planned. with one tragic excep-
tion - Lee Lyon. a carnerwornan filming the
release of the translocated calves for Survival
Anglia (another British television series). was
trampled and killed by a confused. frightened
and angry young elephant as it emerged from
its travelling crate. 'lhat elephant was shot
(such is human justice). the three smallest were
hand reared. but the other 22 were successfully
released into the park.

Eleven years later. in July 1986. I travelled
to Akagera with BBC cameraman Hugh
Maynard to ’find out how things were
progressing and to ﬁlm the elephants for The
Elephant Challenge. Despite the full
co-operation of the conservator and guards.
who spent two weeks searching for them. the

 

 

 

_.-....... IS .




c—W" .. v “-1“

on Glepma it“

'main her'd could not be found before our time

ran out. We ﬁlmed the three hand-reared
elephants who, although now perfectly free,
still prefer to hang around the ﬁshery on the
shores of Lake lhema scrounging (and
sometimes stealing) titbits of human food to
supplement their foraging. Whilst attemping to
keep the inquisitive trunk of Mutware, a
lZ~year~old bull elephant, out of my camera
bag, I asked Francis Verhulst, Belgian adviser
to the National Parks of Rwanda, whether he
thought the other elephants had been
poached. ‘No,’ he replied, ‘if any had been
killed we would have found the bodies. But
they are often frightened by poachers who
come over the border from Tanzania to hunt
antelope for meat and skins, and I’m sure they
remember the killing of their parents and the
transloeation. Consequently they run and hide
in thick cover whenever they see or hear
humans or vehicles.

"there were 13 male and 13 females in the
translocation. One male was shot [as described
above], one male later caught his trunk in a
machcr‘s snare and died. but all the others are
known to be well. The first calf to be born in
Akagera was seen in WM and now there are
four calves « possibly more, because most of
the females were around the same age, so
should be breeding at about the same time.‘

When I asked him why there were no
elephants in Akagcra prior to the trans-
location. he told me that elephants used to pass
through. His father, Rene Verhulst ~ who
created the park, established its boundaries
and was its ﬁrst conservator -- believed that
elephants used to migrate down through
Akagera from Uganda to Burundi, then circle
round north via eastern Zaire and back to
Uganda. Gradually their migration routes
were blocked by cultivation and settlements
and in N45 or so, a herd of about 50 got stuck
in the Bugesera region. (Note: there is little
direct evidence for such long migrations; the
Akagera elephants may simply have been
hunted out early in this century.) The herd
grew to 150 strong, probably by immigration of
‘refugcc‘ elephants, before the conﬂict with the
farmers reached its peak, and extermination
was decreed in 1975.

‘But the translocation was a great success.’
added Verhults. ‘Beforc, we had no elephants
in Akagera and a doomed herd in Bugesera.
Now Bugesera is all ﬁelds but we have a total
of 28 elephants and more calves are expected.
The park is about some hectares so it could
possibly support maybe 300 elephant.’

Ask lain Douglas-Hamilton whether the
right decision was taken in Rwanda and he will
give a rather different answer; if the herd of
140 had been driven to Akagera en masse,
there would probably be upwards of XI)
elephants of all ages there now, instead of a
bunch of traumatised teenagers. As elephants
live in a complex social structure for up to 60
years or so, it is hardly surprising that they are
terriﬁed of vehicles, after seeing all their family
and neighbours above the age of ten years
butchered (babies under one year were also
shot because it is virtually impossible to bottle
feed elephants that small).

In losing the adults, the calves not only lost
their parents and protectors, they also lost the
accumulated wisdom and local knowledge of

generations. Elephants, like humans, have a
long childhood in which to learn about the
rules of their society and the habitat in which
they live. It is a great shame that. having
completed the translocation, no funds were
made available fora long-tcmi study of the ani-
mals and their efforts to adapt to a new envi-
ronment. It must have been like an elephant-
version of Golding‘s Lord of the ﬂies. as
inexperienced ten-yearolds tried to take
leadership of the group (it certainly split into
two factions, which seldom meet). The one
optimistic factor arising from this is that, armed
with their terror of man. they (and their
offspring) have a good chance of surviving.
Whatever the ﬁnal outcome in Akagcra.
the question remains, is it typical of the rest of
Africa? Certainly. elephants that feed on or
walk over crops are going to be shot, spcarcd.
snared or poisoned; one can hardly blame the
farmer for using every means at his disposal to
protect his only food supply. And if that were
the only major source of elephant mortality,
one might ﬁnd comfort in the fact that there
are enough elephants in parks and reserves
throughout Africa to ‘save' the species.
Unfortunately, that simply isn’t the case. Fifty
per cent of elephants live outside existing
protected areas and, therefore, will ultimately
ﬁnd themselves competing with man for their
habitat, but even those living in protected areas
are .not safe'. Many of the best-known parks in
Africa have, in the last decade or two, suffered

 

 

Ian Redmond is a wildlife biologist. plurtographcr and
writer. He has studied mountain gorillas it Rwanda and
Zaire and the cave elephants in Kenya's Mount Elgon
National Park (sec Swam, July/August Illa). He broad
casts regularly for the BBC Natural History Unit.
including his own radio series entitled Bushy Tales. and
has advised on the making of several «summary
pmgrammes for American and British television. Ian is
agraduatcot'KeeleUniversityandaFellowathe
7Mtgicnl Sou'ety of lam.

 

 

« .nbn, i;)tl.‘.ll\lu3,‘ iLuu‘L‘IUII ill
elephant nutrition .‘tlld the only reason those
elephants are being killed is for their ivory.

On our way back from not ﬁlming many
elephants in Akagera and Rwindi, our plane
stopped briefly in Nairobi, Kenya. 1 took the
opportunity of talking to lain Douglas-
Hamilton and heard some disturbing news: he
had heard from two different sources that a
gang of poachers, anned with automatic.
weapons, had come over the border from
Uganda and shot about ltll elephants in the
Mount Elgon National Park. Kenya. The
situation was so bad that the park had to be
closed to the public while things were brought
under control. His words came as a personal
blow to me - Elgon was where I had studied
elephants that enter caves to mine and eat
mineral-rich rock (see Swara, July/August
1982, page 28). Many of the mining elephants
wear their tusks down to stumps and that, I
thought, plus the fact that it is difficult to hunt
elephants on foot in thick forest, tnade them an
unlikely target for large-scale poaching. l was
wrong. One should make it a rule never to be-
come attached to one's study animals.

liven more disturbing in terms of elephant
numbers elsewhere were his observations from
his own plane. He had just flown up from
Zambia and. flying low over the Luangwa
Valley. Zambia and the Selous National Park,
'l'anzania. had noted numerous dead elephants
and a high level of poaching activity.
Confirmation of the Luangwa Valley situation
came from Mark Boulton of the lntcrnational
Centre for Conservation Education in
(iloucestcrshirc. He has just returned from a
trip to Zambia and reported seeing six freshly
shot elephant within a three-day walk of
Chibcmbc Camp; the total Luangwa elephant
population is now reckoned to be 'littlc more
than 20,llll(down from llll,llllplus in I973)'.

Counting elephants is notoriously difficult
unless they are in open savannah and you can
ﬂy over the area. Most of the estimates given
for elephant numbers in most African
countries are. therefore. guesstimates. Such is
this uncertainty that lain Douglas-l“lamilton.
wary of being misquotcd (as has happened in
the past). now refuses to give a ﬁgure for the
total number of African elephants surviving
today. Instead he stresses the trends.

Even if one cannot be sure of exact figures.
plotting the estimates for populations which
have been monitored for the past decade or
more reveals a frightening series of downward-
skiping graphs. In a paper published in the Jan-
uary 1987 issue of ()ryx. he gathers together
data from questionnaires, sent to elephant
biologists and conservationists in every African
state containing elephants. and his own aerial
surveys of certain parks. The trends are clear -
elephants have virtually been eliminated in
certain areas and their numbers greatly
reduced in many others. Only in southern
Africa are numbers relatively stable or
increasing.

The reasons for an increase in poaching are
complex and are not just to do with fluctua-
tions in the price of ivory - even at its lowest
price, it is still worth the poacher’s while to risk
ﬁnes, imprisonment and gun ﬁghts with
guards, to say nothing of the dangers inherent
in killing elephants — but at the same time,
there is a strong correlation between rising
elephant mortality and rising ivory prices since
the 19605. In a nutshell, it is a combination of

 

 

 

 




hf

u

f" “5., a“:
41%,).0 " \

{J

.u
.

 




"(elephants

political turmoil and famine (and. therefore.
more people prepared to br‘ak the law to
improve their standard of living), poor law
enforcement. an enonnous increase in the
number and availability of weapons (thanks to
the eagerness with which both East and West
vie to sell arms to African states). along with
better roads and more vehicles to transport the
ivory. 'lhe number of bush wars being fought
at any one time is also pertinent: poaching can
both feed hungry troops and provide an
international currency for arms deals -- ivory.
Understanding the problem is one thing;
dealing with it is another. lliuglas-llamilton
told me. "l‘he time has come to launch a
massive international campaign to motivate . . '1 u _ _ '
public opinion (both in Africa and the rest of . , _ - t . ,. , * j ; (a i 7
the world) -- akin tothat which brought about g i ' ' ” g ' V pp I ' ” '
the moratorium on commercial whaling. ' ‘
We‘ve had Save the Whale. Now it is time to

’W’

1'1”“.

‘ I r' w ' .' . I - . ,',‘,
1' I ’ . ' '
'. I.“ - .n-, n t“ ‘ . I. *‘Z‘ .

'n' v" W

’01..
I .L;

Save the lilephant ~-
that is to remove the financial incentives for
watching. 1 '

"l'he system of ivory quotas [recently
introduced by African countries party to the
(‘i invention on international Trade in
lindangered Species. CITES] is a good start -
particularly because it was initiated by the
African governments themselves. If the quotas
can be enforced. the system will gr ‘atly help t-
but rmlt‘ providing entorcement works. Under
the system. a selective moratorium on ivory
can be imposed by those countries unable to
control the trade in any othc way. simply by
declaring zero quotas.

,a.

‘0‘

.rrum’ w.av.vnu.. .ja.‘n~.¢"

_.. , ‘ 3,.“ a t. ’61:.
and the best way to do - ‘ - ‘ ”I" 5.1,. . *i

it n . ~ ‘
I lephrmm Crossing the Uusa Nyiro River in Kenyn' s .S'mnbmu Nim'mml Rescue.

0... .v-l

“But at best.‘ he added. ‘it will be several
years before the sysem is effective. and in the
me intime the trends continue downwards.
[be dramatic collapses we have seen in the
past decade. apart from Rwanda, have been
caused by ivory poachers. not by farmers tak-
ing elephant land. Some of the worst elephant
catastrophes have been in “protected" areas
with no human population at all.’

Talk of a ban on ivory trading is anathema
to those in the trade and to most conservation-
ists in Zimbabwe. There. the elephant popula-

.ngp¢.‘n.ln u

~m.‘ -t r O.

."”O'“. ”gm-nudugnmanu .

U. “.01.“!

«ocuumnwm'n

u"
t.”'”

tion is re: isonablv well protected and is har-
vested (managed or culled - choose yout
euphemism) to generate income from ivory.
meat and hides. This should make elephants
popular with the general populace -— it creates
employment and everyone can see a good
reason for putting up with elephants even it
they themselves dont benefit. Douglas-
llamilton agrees that ‘African politicians can
now see that they are losing a valuable
resource which could be managed proﬁtably'
but he argues that Zimbabwe is a special case.

 

 

 




O

‘atypiCal of most of Africa. “At the moment. Zimbabwe's policies work
for about five per cent of Africa‘s elephants. but in promoting the ivory
trade, they may jeopardise the survival of the other 95 per cent in less
well—organised countries. liven in Zimbabwe. the elephant policy has
yet to stand the test of time.’

Although Douglas-Hamilton is usually portrayed by the media as
being against the ivory trade. he stresses that a temporary ban in the
most beleaguered areas would give those elephant populations time to
recover and ultimately he good for the ivory dealers (by allowing more
elephants to grow bigger tasks which are worth more). An elephant's
task is a modified incisor tooth which grows throughout the owner‘s
life; average tusk weight at ivory auctions has fallen in recent years as
more and more smaller elephants (female and immature animals) are
poached. Such indiscriminate killing clearly has dire effects on the
population structure and can only be regarded as a wasteful use of the
elephant resource.

Despite the controversy. there is full agreement on certain points.
Both camps agree (regardless of press reports to the
contrary) that the African elephant as a species is not in immediate
danger of extinction. And Douglas-l lamilton concurs that the greatest
long- -term threat is the uneuihed population growth of the human
species. 'I he difference boils down to how you view the loss of perhaps
three-quarters of a million elephants or more.

Ian Parker. a pragm-atist. seems content to let the elephant
ptlpttlttlttltl fall until it stabilises 'at a level which only the African
people - who have tosharetheir landuith elephants - can determine.
It is sad. but it is inevitable.‘ The outcome of that policy will
probably he a cultivated continent with a few thousand elephants kept
in a handful of highly-managed parks that are little more than game
ranches »- a prospect that‘many would view with a sinking hean

Ian Douglas-l lamilton sums it up. saying. “the premature
destruction of Africa's elephant resource should shock both
conservationists and ivory traders alike.‘

But while the debate continues. one thing is abundantly clear: for
whatever reason elephants are killed. those who line their bank
accounts with white gold will not be shedding too many tears. Q

Q.,& «WWMxesst-F&

:00 0 0 W

MALAYA GA‘NB‘I'S TANZANITI

GEM
mmm WORLD OF
AFRICA

TSAVORH'E '_

9‘?
e

FINE GOLD JEWELLERY

9 way .
W“ SAPPHIRE

Aumvs'r i,
8311138 0‘5:qu .
z

‘9,
INTERNATIONAL GEMS LTD. h
CONSOLIDATED HOUSE 0 STANDARD STREET
BO. BOX 48464 0 TELEPHONE: 336934
NAIROBI -— KENYA

 




DRAFT - WLD/CITESltr - 10:15 a.m. - 2/22/88

February 22, 1988

 

Mr. Ronald Lambertson, Esquire
Chairman, CITES Standing Committee
Dear Mr. Lambertson:

A meeting was held Wednesday, February 17, 1988 in
Washington between representatives of U.S. NGO's and
the Secretary General of CITES, Eugene LaPointe. The
main topic of discussion was the CITES Ivory Quota

System, and the current situation in Burundi. We are

 

quite disturbed by this situation and believe that a
reasonable solution requires immediate action by the
Standing Committee of CITES.

The situation in Burundi is out of control, as

there are now estimated to be up to 60 tons of illegal

ivory stockpiled there. This is quite distressing.
However, even more distressing is the tentative
proposal by the Secretariat that Burundi confiscate
this ivory, and sell it to one of the ivory trade
associations in Asia or Europe. If Burundi takes such

action, the ivory will just be "legalized", and will

return to international trade.

 




 

As you know, prior to the Ottawa Conference of the

Parties, CITES legalized more than

tons of ivory

in 1986 in an attempt to end illegal ivory trade.

The

current situation is, however, proof positive that

artificial legalization of illegal ivory will not stop

illegal trade. Yet, that is precisely what the

Secretariat's proposal will accomplish. If this

occurs, the message in Africa will be that the Ivory

quota system is ineffective and unenforcable. We urge

the Standing Committee to direct the Secretary General
to withhold CITES approval of trade in this or any

other illegal ivory pending a thorough review of this
situation at the next Conference of the Parties.

In a related matter, the General Assembly of the

International Union for the Conservation of Nature and

Natural Resources (IUCN), at its 17th Triennial Session

in San Jose, Costa Rica, February 1—10, 1988, passed

the enclosed resolution unanimously. This resolution

represents the strong sentiments of the nations
attending the IUCN meeting, many of which are

signatories to CITES, and numerous NGO's. We consider

this resolution to be sound and within the power of the

 




 

 

 

CITES Secretariat to implement.

meeting with Mr. LaPointe,

Based on our recent

we are very concerned that

unless the Standing Committee takes immediate action,

the Secretary General may disregard this resolution and

proceed to legalize trade in Burundi's illegal ivory

stocks.

We urge the Standing Committee to communicate to

the Secretariat its comments on these resolutions.

We

feel that these are decisions of such importance that

they must be made by the parties and the Standing

Committee,

Mr. Curtis Bohlen
World Wildlife Fund

Dr. Christine Stevens
Society for Animal
Protective Legislation

Ms. Marian Newman

International Wildlife
Coalition

and not by the Secretariat.

Sincerely,

John W. Grandy
Vice President
Wildlife & Environment

Mr. Michael J. Bean
Environmental Defense Fund

Mr. Roger McManua

Center for Environmental
Education

 




 

Mr. Craig VanNote

Ms. Priscilla Feral
Monitor, Inc. Friends of Animals,

Inc.

cc: Mr. Eugene LaPointe

Standing Committee Members
Interested Parties

JWG:pj

 

 

 

 




l7/58(Rev.) CITES IVORY QUOTA CONTROL SYSTEM

RECOGNISING that the Contracting Parties to the Convention on
International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES)
have recently adOpted Special procedures for the control of trade in ivory
from African elephants, which are generally referred to as the "Quota
system", and have directed the CITES Secretariat to assist in the
implemention of the Quota system with financing from voluntary
contributions;

AWARE that there has been a sharp decline in elephant pOpulations in many
parts of Africa in recent years, that illegal trade in ivory has been the
major cause of the decline, and that effective coordination of the Quota
system by the CITES Secretariat is essential if the illegal trade in ivory
is to be reduced;

AWARE of the special problems of illegal trade in ivory involving Burundi
and the United Arab Emirates noted in Resolution Conf.6.ll at the last
meeting of the Conference of the Parties, and further noting the
requirements of Resolution Conf.5L12 with respect to the registration of
stocks of raw ivory;

RECOGNISING that continued large scale illegal trade in ivory will imperil
a resource of great socio-economic value to African states with elephant
populations;

CONSCIOUS that the CITES Secretariat has not raised sufficient voluntary
contributions to ensure the effective functioning of the Quota system
until the next Conference of the Parties;

RECOGNISING that this shortage of funds could jeepardise the longterm
conservation of African elephant p0pulations;

The General Assembly of IUCN, at its 17th Session in San José, Costa Rica,
l-lO February 1988:

l, URGES Governments, non~governmental organisations, trade groups and
other apprOpriate agencies to provide financial assistance to the
CITES Secretariat for the Operation of the Quota system;

URGES the Contracting Parties to CITES to include,at the next
Conference of the Parties, the financing of the Quota system within
the ordinary CITES budget funded by the Contracting Parties;

URGES the CITES Secretariat not to approve international trade in any
unregistered raw ivory held within a State not Party to CITES without
the consent of the next meeting of the Conference of the Parties.

 




February 24,

Ronald Lambertson, Esquire

Chairman, CITES Standing Committee
United States Fish and Wildlife Service
18th and C Streets, NW Room #3252
Washington, D.C. 20240

Dear Mr. Lambertson:

A meeting was held Wednesday, February 17,
1988 in Washington between representatives of
U.S. NGO's and the Secretary General of CITES,
Eugene Lapointe. The main topic of discussion
was the CITES Ivory Quota Control System, and the
current situation in Burundi. We are quite
disturbed by this situation and believe that a
reasonable solution requires immediate action by
the Standing Committee of CITES.

The situation in Burundi is out of control,
as there are now estimated to be up to 60 tons of
illegal ivory stockpiled there. This is quite
distressing. However, even more distressing is
the tentative proposal by the Secretariat that
Burundi confiscate this ivory, and sell it to one
of the ivory trade associations in Asia or
Europe. If Burundi takes such action, the ivory
will just be "legalized", and will return to
international trade.

As you know, prior to the Ottawa Conference
of the Parties, the CITES Secretariat registered
more than 17,000 ivory tusks in 1986 in an
attempt to end illegal ivory trade. The current
situation is, however, proof positive that the
Secretariat's action has not halted poaching or
subsequent illegal trade to Burundi. Neither
will the Secretariat's proposed action do so.
Rather, it will send the message to Africa that
the Ivory Quota Control System is ineffective and

 




Mr. Ronald Lambertson
February 24, 1988
Page Two

unenforcable. We urge the Standing Committee to
direct the Secretary General to withhold CITES
approval of trade by not registering stocks of
this or any other illegal ivory, pending a
thorough review of this situation at the next
meeting of the Conference of the Parties. In
this regard, we hope that the Secretariat's
upcoming mission to Burundi will serve simply to
assess the situation and determine the status of
ivory stocks, and that no decision as to the
ultimate disposition of ivory stocks will be
taken by the Secretariat.

In a related matter, the General Assembly of
the International Union for Conservation of
Nature and Natural Resources (IUCN), at its 17th
triennial session in San Jose, Costa Rica,
February 1-10, 1988, passed the enclosed

resolution unanimously. This resolution
represents the strong sentiments of the nationS'
attending the IUCN meeting, many of which are
signatories to CITES, and numerous NGO's. We
consider this resolution to be sound and within
the power of the CITES Secretariat to

implement. Based on our recent meeting with Mr.
Lapointe, we are very concerned that unless the
Standing Committee takes immediate action, the
Secretary General may disregard this resolution
and proceed to legalize trade in Burundi's
illegal ivory stocks.

We urge the Standing Committee to
communicate to the Secretariat its comments on
these resolutions. We feel that these are
decisions of such importance that they must be
made by the Parties and the Standing Committee,
particularly in light of the resolution of the

 




Mr. Ronald Lambertson
February 24, 1988
Page Three

Parties in Ottawa directed at Burundi.

Sincerely,

.. _... //l/ ’

(flu/92:9 Z§;dﬂé%«~/ “sgﬂiglll:ill!!:

Curtis Bohlen John W. Grandy

World Wildlif Fund The Humane Society of the U.S.

‘3

(ﬁlm ' Muir/0,52.

Christine Stevens Michael J. Bean

Society for Animal Environmental Defense Fund
Protective Legislation

Marian Newman Roger McManus

International Wildlife Center for Environmental
Coalition Education '

Crag/14v. M @A/WQ dim/Q

VanNote Priscilla Feral
Monitor, Inc. Friends of Animals

Mr. Ian Fry M. Rupert Cutler
Ecofund Australia Defenders of Wildlife

For convenience, please respond to Dr. John W. Grandy
at The Humane Society of the United States at 2100 L
Street, NW, Washington, D.C. 20037.

cc: Mr. Eugene Lapointe
Standing Committee Members
Interested Parties

 




.l7/58(Rev.) CITES IVORY QUOTA CONTROL SYSTEM

RECOGNISING that the Contracting Parties to the Convention on
International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES)
have recently adOpted Special procedures for the control of trade in ivory
Vfrom African elephants, which are generally referred to as the "Quota
system", and have directed the CITES Secretariat to assist in the

implemention of the Quota system with financing from voluntary
contributions;

AWARE that there has been a sharp decline in elephant pOpulations in many
parts of Africa in recent years, that illegal trade in ivory has been the
major cause of the decline, and that effective coordination of the Quota

system by the CITES Secretariat is essential if the illegal trade in ivory
is to be reduced;

AWARE of the Special problems of illegal trade in ivory involving Burundi
and the United Arab Emirates noted in Resolution Conf.6.ll at the last
meeting of the Conference of the Parties, and further noting the

requirements of Resolution Conf.5212 with respect to the registration of
stocks of raw ivory;

RECOGNISING that continued large scale illegal trade in ivory will imperil

a resource of great socio-economic value to African states with elephant
pOpulations; '

CONSCIOUS that the CITES Secretariat has not raised sufficient voluntary

contributions to ensure the effective functioning of the Quota system
until the next Conference of the Parties;

RECOGNISING that this shortage of funds could jeepardise the longterm
conservation of African elephant pOpulations;

The General Assembly of IUCN, at its 17th Session in San José, Costa Rica,
l-lO February 1988: i

l. URGES Governments, non-governmental organisations, trade groups and
other apprOpriate agencies to provide financial assistance to the
CITES Secretariat for the Operation of the Quota system;

URGES the Contracting Parties to CITES to include,at the next
Conference of the Parties, the financing of the Quota system within
the ordinary CITES budget funded by the Contracting Parties;

URGES the CITES Secretariat not to approve international trade in any
unregistered raw ivory held within a State not Party to CITES without
the consent of the next meeting of the Conference of the Parties.

 




mm (L,W'.,
WWW/9:2: mm,7h7dmwwfz M
WWI - ’ . '

M W W“ ' #50me

 




m gram Mm swat!

It is a crime that beautiful animals like these gentle giants face extinction
because of the greed of man! We cannot let elephants, rhinoceroses, and
mountain gorillas vanish from our planet.

That’s why I am proud to add
my name to that of 30,000 other
caring Americans fighting for the
survival of African Wildlife.
Enclosed is my tax deductible
membership dues of:

Cl $15 El $.20" E] $35 |:l $50
[3 $100 |:l Other $___

he, OIESVYGTQLV‘ HBCJ QOhW‘OMhMS 0v" ‘HHS [QVCi Or MOIQ TO mach guy 30” I maﬁkymmA .

Kiel

JBHN GLELQ ER

9.? sex 3?13

was HIéCTﬁ” EC EQGG?

'. As a member of the African Wildlife Foundation, I Wlll receive the quarterly
'Wildlife News, keeping me informed of important conservation issues in Africa
and special bulletins on opportunities for eXciting trips to African wildlife .. '

SﬂIlCtU 31168.

Please make your tax deductible check payable to AWF and return with this form to: African Wildlife Foundation,
1717 Massachusetts Avenue, N .W., Washington D. C. 20036.

A copy of the last ﬁnancial report ﬁled with the New York State Department of State may be obtained by writing to: New York State Department of State, Ofﬁce of Charities Registration, Albany, New York 12231.

 




“The wild creatures I had come to “Great-Forces are at work striving
Africa to see were exhilarating in to bring about a greater unity of
their multitudes and colors . . . the 3 all living things. It is through
anticipation that I ﬂit, the sense of l cooperation with these forces that
origins, of innocence and mystery; Man will achieve all of which he is
like a marvelous childhood faculty . capable.”

”WWI? . . Kenneth D. Kaunda, President onanzbia
Peter Matthiessen, from The Tree Where

 

_Man Was Born

 

     

 

WE NEED YOUR SUPPORT

“Over the last twenty-ﬁve years, AWF AFRICAN
has been a major force in wildlife con— 5';
servation efforts throughout Africa. 1 WIIJD I I(IFE

Your tax deductible contributions keep 3:

Eizaififg‘iaeaaa Errata me FOUNDATION

 

AS we enjoythe beneﬁts of our modern
society, we also cherish the belief that '3
there remains a place on the globe Where
elephants roam over the great savannah

 

and gorillas move safely in the darkness 3 g, ‘. Africa before it’s too late.” 1717 MASSACHUSETTS AVENUE, NW,
of the rainforest. Africa is such a place. 3 ' " WASHINGTON, DC 20036
A quartcr Of a CCHthY'agO, the African i ' i PO. BOX 48177, NAIROBI, KENYA

be lost—that the great natural resources

Wildlife Foundation began its effort to ' ' V , ; 3
make sure that this paradise would not % g 2 Z; i 0‘ 7 E' R 25 y E' ARS ‘
of Africa would be conserved for genera- f l 3 I . l-i . F R I E :
tions to come. 7 - . Ilmmy Stewart

 

 

 

 

 




A

 

PARTNERSHIP FOR SURVIVAL

The African Wildlife Foundation (AWF)
was founded in 1961 with the belief that
Africa’s wildlife could be protected only
by the Africans themselves. The Founda—
tion’s first order of business was to pro-
vide conservation training to African
citizens by establishing two colleges of
wildlife management. These colleges
have trained hundreds of professional
rangers and wardens who work in na—
tional parks and game reserves all over
Africa. And it marked the beginning of a
lasting partnership between AWF and

X:

A..- Rhino and Elephant

Conservation

These two magnificent animals are the prime
targets of poachers in Africa. The black
rhino is now at the brink of extinction, and
thousands of elephants are slaughtered every
year for their ivory. AWF’s projects help to
protect habitats, improve enforcement of
poaching laws, and equip and train anti-

poaching patrols.

’x

the nations of Africa in their struggle to
save wildlife.

Saving the wildlife also contributes
signiﬁcantly to the well-being of Africa’s
people. In Kenya, for example, tourists
coming to view the wildlife provide the
country its second largest source of reve-
nue. At the same time, the parks that
protect the animals are a key factor in
preventing the kind of climatic disaster
that has struck Kenya’s northern neigh-
bor, Ethiopia.

Ht.

~ 1:.3de6);¢¢1:

AWF’s field office in Nairobi, Kenya is the
hub of most conservation efforts in Africa.
With a professional staff on the scene, AWF
has an inside View of the developments that
affect Africa’s environment, and can respond
immediately to conservation needs.

ﬁe...

Training of Wildliﬁ
Prqféssionals

AVVF’s support of higher education in wild—
life management, at colleges in Tanzania and
in Cameroon, ensures that topnotch profes-
sionals are available to protect their coun-
tries’ natural resources.

 




NGRESSIONAL ascoRD -— SENATE

ticularly unwise. Removing the cur-

rent pohcy “wand beneﬁt both coun-

trieswincrease profit opportunities for
our beef industry and prove a pleasing
benefit to Korean consumers.

I strongly urge my colleagues to sup-
port the amendment.

SAVING THE EARTH
Mr. INOUYE. Mr. President, in the

July 3 Wall Street Journal there was

an article, headlined “Saving the

Earth,” which detailed U.S. Govern-

ment efforts to secure long overdue re~

forms in the World Bank and the re-
gional development banks relative to
environmental concerns.

The Foreign Operations Appropria-
tions Subcommittee, most particularly
the. ranking Republican, my good
friend Boa Kass-“sis, has provided the
leadership and drive on this issue. I
as}: unanimous consent that the Wall
Street Journal article be printed in
the Eocene.

There being no objection, the article
was ordered to be printed in the
fibres: as follows:

Savors THE EARTH—UNETED Srarss ASKS
Wests BANK To MAKE SAFEpoAsprrso Ere
vmosmsnr a Paroarrr

(By Eduardo Lachica)

Treasury Secretary James Baker once
went to Botswana to hunt elephants, but,
3 he says, he didn‘t have the heart to shoot
any pachyderms. A lifealong hunter and
angler, he was also a closet conservationist.

Recently, Mr. Baker has been able to take
his ei‘lyironmental concerns public. Operat-
ing on instructions from Congress, he is
pressing the World Bank to build environ-
mental safeguards into its Third World de—
velopment projects. ”The environment is on
the agenda,” he says. “This is a matter we
feel strongly about.”

New, partly because of pressure from the
018., its largest contributor, the World Bank
has set. firm guidelines on how bank
projects should avoid or minimize damage
to tropical forests, watersheds and wild-
lands.

The bank has also expanded its environ-
mental programs. It is turning its lQ—person
environmental staff into a full-scale depart-
ment with as many as 100 professionals,
most of whom will be posted in regional of-
fices so that they can work hand in hand
with lending officers. Bank President
Barber Conable recently announced an
“urgent” assessment of environmental
threats in the 30 most vulnerable develop
ing nations, including Brazil, Indonesia and
Mali, and began programs to counter the
spread of deserts, deforestation and pollu-
tion in the Mediterranean Sea.

PRESSURE ON omens

The U.S. is pressing the African Develop-
ment Bank, the Asian Development Bank
and the Inter-American Development Bank
to take similar steps. Together with the 151-
nation World Bank, these institutions lend
about $22 billion a year to developing coun-
tries.

The 11.8. has also raised environmental
concerns about a number of projects that
are under World Bank consideration. Wash-
ington worries, for example. that Pakistan’s
$5 billion Kalabagh hydroelectric dam on
the Indus River risks creating crop—killing
salt deposits downstream and that a large
hydroelectric project planned by India on
the Narmada River will flood 150,000 acres

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD CLIPPINGS
1868 Columbia Road, N,W,

Washington, D,C, 20009

Date‘ as... i 0 i987

S 9617

of teak-covered valleys. A Delhi University
team that surveyed the. project called it
“sheer madness—or at best a dangerous
gamble.”

US. conservation groups persuaded Con-
gress to impose environmental conditions on
the World Bank and other multilateral de-
velopment banks. “Its not just birds and
bunnies and having nice parks,” explaiis
Barbara Bramble, the international pro-
gram director of the National Wildlife Fed-
eration. “ ‘Je‘re talking about basic re
sources and how to use them wisely. That‘s
something Middle America can under-
stand.”

UNACCEPTABLE PROJECTS

Robert Kasten, a Wisconsin Republican
on the Senate Appropriations Committee,
argues that “it's simply unacceptable that
[development banks] should finance bad
projects with US. taxpayer dollars.”

And Claiborne Pell, the chairman of the
Senate Foreign. Relations Committee, insists
that the environment is a “foreign-policy
issue" and one that “doesn’t stop at the
frontiers of any one nation—even one as
vast as our own. Forest destruction raises
global temperatures, which in turn could
melt the polar ice caps and flood coastal -
cities, the Rhode Island Democrat notes.

In financing the banks for the current
fiscal year, Congress instructed the Treas~
ury to promote the “rapid addition” of
trained environmentalists to bank staffs. to
vote against loans for projects that would
hurt the enviromnent and to demand that
no less that 20% of development-bank loans
be directed toward environmentally benefis
cial projects such as reforestation, small-
scale farming and mini-hydroelectric dams.

FLAGGING PROJECTS

Finally, the law requires the US. Agency ,
for International Development to establish
an “early warning system” to flag projects
that might harm the environment. Its latest.
report lists more than $10 billion in bank—fi-
nanced projects that are facing delays,
mainly for environmental reasons.

The list includes major hydroelectric
projects in India, Pakistan and China.
“Those mega~projects will have to undergo a.
greater degree of scrutiny for their environ
mental impact,” Secretary Baker says.

Treasury officials insist that the US. isn’t
anti~growth. “We’re simply saying that it
makes more sense economically to design
projects properly and avoid environmental
destruction that would cost a lot more to fix
later,” says Jones Conrow. the deputy assist~
ant secretary for developing nations. “We
don’t have to make a stark choice between
development and the environment."

But the US. stance troubles some Third
World developers. “They have yet to show
us any practical alternatives—how, for in-
stance, Indonesia can make up for the loss
of foreign exchange if it agrees not to cut
timber," says Al Binger, the president of the
Biomass Users Network, based in Costa
Rica. "Let's not forget that it’s the need to
repay debt that‘s forcing countries to de-
plete their own natural resources.”

The Jamaicanborn Mr. Binger believes
that until donor countries look at underde-
velopment in its totality, many debt-ridden
developing countries will listen politely to
Secretary Baker but continue their environ-
mentally harmful practices.

The World Bank is having some effect. It
has firm guidelines against financing
projects that would overtax the borrowers’
natural resourcesnfisheries projects that
would overfish waters, for instance. or cattle
projects that would overgraze the land. The
bank‘s new environmental focus is to some
extent in conflict with its more traditional

1‘.

-4:

 




S 9618

goals, like fighting poverty and increasing
food production. But Mr. Conable insists
that ecology and economics can be “mutual-
ly reenforclng disciplines.”

Despite its efforts, the World Bank’s envi-
ronmental loans last year amounted to $800
million, or 5% of total lending, well below
the 20% the U.S. is advocating. Mr. Conable
concedes that the bank has to “do more to
ensure that environmental considerations
play a central role in development strate-
gies.”

The development-bank community still
has no answers for an environmental disas-
ter like Haiti. The Caribbean nation, once
rich in mahogany forests, is in danger of
being reduced to a barren rock by desperate—
ly poor people who cut down trees for fuel.
“You can’t talk about environmental protec-
tion to a country that’s on the margin of
survival," says Gunter Koenig, who runs
some of the World Bank’s Caribbean pro-
grams.

INCREASED SENSITIVITY

Haiti's problems have made development
agencies more sensitive to preventing or re-
pairing deforestation and erosion in Nepal
and other countries. The bank is beginning
a broad effort to curb the destruction of
tropical forests, as much as 11 million acres
of which are lost every year to human set-
tlement. It has already had a lot of experi-
ence in replanting denuded lands with fast-
growing species and training farmers to
manage tree nurseries. Mr. Conable says
that the bank has made $1 billion in forest-
ry-project loans over the past decade and
that “we are ready to do more."

The World Bank is also working to repair

environmental damage from earlier
projects. Bank aides acknowledge that as
much as $2.3 billion will have to be spent on
a canal to divert the periodic flooding of the
Indus River below Tarbela, a Pakistani hy-
droelectric project built in the early 19708.
The dam is causing waterlogging and salina-
tion in grain fields down-stream.

What is happening in Brazil illustrates
the struggle to balance development with
environmental protection. .At one point,
World Bank officials recall, Brazil was de-
veloping so fast that it transported timber
on airplanes to build its new capital. Gov-
ernment officials also once seriously consid-
ered turning the Amazon into a Mediterra-
nean-sized lake to create internal shipping
routes where impenetrable jungles still
stood.

BITTER AFTERMATH

This exuberance has been cooled by a
mountain of debt and the bitter aftermath
of too~hasty development. A five—year-old
Brazilian effort to settle the Amazon basin
has led to destruction of vast tracts of tropi-
cal rain forests in the state of Rondonia. It
was unwittingly abetted by the World Bank,
which helped pay for a road, BR 364, that
penetrated the jungle and brought in hun-
dreds of thousands of settlers. That did
more to unleash the wrath of U.S. environ-
mentalists on the development banks than
any of the banks' other works.

The bank now concedes that it misjudged
Brazil's ability to control the migration. “A
tidal wave of humanity poured in, lured by
TV reports that Rondonia is a green para-
dise where you can get rich quick.” recalls
John McKenna Jr.. a World Bank resource
planner. The bank reports that Rondonia, a
state the size of West Germany, lost 15% of
its forest cover to bulldozers and land specu-
lators in less than five years.

Sen. Kasten asked the crew of a space-
shuttle flight to photograph the devastation
and showed the pictures at congressional
hearings to help build support for putting
environmental conditions on U.S. contribu-

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD —- SEN '

tions to development banks. “I’m not for
going back to candles; we need electricity
and development," Sen. Kasten says. “But
I’m against thoughtless, short-term develop‘
ment that can‘t be sustained over the long
term.” "

Disturbed by the environmental damage,
the World Bank suspended payments to the
project until Brazil changed its policies.
Now the bank is working to ensure that its ,
mistakes aren’t repeated. It is buying
remote-sensing satellite services to detect
any further changes in Rondonia’s tree
canopy. It is also paying for a force of 85
forest rangers to keep settlers away from
Indian lands and biological reserves.

And the bank is offering Brazil incentives ‘
to protect its remaining wilderness. Under
one possible deal, if Brazil kicked in the
same amount. the bank would provide a
$100 million loan for protecting the wild-
life-rich Pantanal area close to the Bolivian
border and the mountain ranges on the
South Atlantic coast.

The bank is also urging Brazil to change
its tax system so that landowners can get a
tax break for keeping their trees standing.
Currently, the tax laws penalize owners for
underusing the land.

In the meantime, Brazils own environmen-
tal movement has come to life. The Nation-
al Environmental Council, made up of both
public and private entities, is lobbying for a
law that would identify all of the Amazon’s
ecosystems. declear half of each a protected
area and open only a quarter of each to
commercial use. ,

Brazilian officials warn, though, that ten-
sions between the underdeveloped northern
states and the more modern south continue
to obstruct a national consensus on the en-
vironment. “The environment has to share
resources with other priorities," says a Bra-
zilian diplomat Sergio do Amaral. “We have
to worry. too, about infant mortality and
malnutrition. about all those children aban-
doned on the streets.” =

PERSIAN GULF POLICY

(Nora: In the RECORD of yesterday,
July 9, 1987, at pages S 9496 and S
9497, the remarks of Mr. MOYNIHAN
contain a typographical error which
changes the meaning of the state- ;
ment. In the permanent RECORD the
remarks will be printed as follows:)

Mr. MOYNIHAN. Mr. President, if I .
might add to the observation of the
distinguished chairman of the Com—
mittee on Foreign Relations, it is the
case that certain British vessels had
American flags at a time when the
Second World War engulfed the world,
when the President of "the United
States and Congress were involved in
"the maintenance of a neutrality zone,
a zone in which American ships escort-
ed allied convoys. It was a national
policy; it was an American policy.

Mr. President, the U.S. Navy is not
for rent, and the American flag is not
for sale.

I repeat the proposition made earlier
in this regard, that we want to support
the administration, and American,
policy. but reflagging is a Kuwaiti
policy.

We learned just yesterday from our
friends in the other body——Mr. ASPIN
and his delegation that visited the
region—that the Kuwaitis plan to
shuttle their tankers to just outside

 




4.1:») a...
.1. 1

E

a!

‘ 1'
4" l, ..
a"; L— O

4.7

d
2.4.!

NJ...

0 {w
a...»
who»
1:

“‘5
3.;::‘:I:z3(:.

n
. ,
I

.I.

 




HOLDING DIALLO 'REPUBLIQUE DE GUINEE
INTERNATIONAL AP. .4910 .

, ”7"" At - ' f"
n 49; /HDI . . . cox-um LE, M .4 80 198A "

LE DIRECIEUR GENERAL s. ‘u
‘ l

l. . B . , ;
Saki?» 9:0.250 (“WE '

Nous evans l'honneur de- vous informer de la création a Conakry
en RIG. d'un Holding International destiné en nﬁtre a 'la capture et
5:1n cOmmercialisation des Oiseaux de cages des chimpanzee, des singes
de tous genres, des Defenses d'Elephnnt, de l'extraztion.du venin de
serpent, de la commercialisation de nos propres fruits et legumes, de
la péche industrielle et artisanale, de l'élévage des crevettes, du
Transit Aérien du transport at enfin de tout autre action permettant la

facilité d'intervention étrangere en R.G.

Nous vous serious reconnaissant de bien vouloir nous fournir
.une documentation autour des oiseaux d'Afrique.

 

a
V

‘ Composé essentiellement de cadres nationaux éprouvés ,nés de la
grande dynastie de l'Ex-Confédération théocmtique du Fouta, 1e Holding
International est concu pour faciliter l'intervention des groupes fi-
nanciers extérieurs en République de Guinée at as conformément au pro-

gramme de Redressenent entrepris par le CMRH.

En effet par notre biais et sous notre contrﬁle, 'vous pouvez
directement obtenir vos installations dans notre pays en vous évﬁtant

toute tracasserie administrative..

Nous vous prions,~ ‘si notre offre vous intéresse de noxgdaaisir
d'une correspondnnce, d'intention. -

Dans le cadre de notrejactivité présente nous vous serious re-
connaissant de bien vouloir nous faire obtenir une ctmnande a satis-
faire dans-l'immédiat‘pnr une personne intéressée par l'ncquisition ‘18

notre faune-
En vous souhaitant bonne reception, ,nous vous prions d'agréer.
Monsieur 1e P.D.G l'assurance dc notre consideration distinguée.
!

T.‘ "b1. CELﬁu 1mg

I/W

HOLDING DIALLO lutumu‘mi
TM. Cellou

 

 




Spirit of Enterprise
The 1987 Rolex Awards

lziot‘mvord by

George Van B. Cochran

_”re_<rzient, lee Explorers Club, 1981—1985

»

.~"ro,n'ssor of Clinical Orthopaedic Surgery, Columbia University
5 7inztor, Orthopaedic Engineering and Research Center, Helen Hayes Hospital

Preface by

Andre ]. Heiniger

Chief Executive Oﬁicer and Managing Director, Montres Rolex S.A.

Edited by
David . Reed

Van Nostrand Reinhold (UK) Co. Ltd

 

 




 

Conserving the desert—dwelling
elephant and rhino ’by involving
the local tribal communities

Garth Leslie Owen-Smith

POB 3596, 9000 Vineta, Namibia

South African, born 22 February 1944. Free-lance nature conservationist.
Educated in South Africa.

 

The elephant and black rhino of the Kaokoveld in north-western Namibia an."

exceptional because they spend much, if not all, of their lives in the \ginzil‘
desert, where the rainfall averages less than 150 mm per annum. In order to
survive in this extremely arid environment, they have made behavioural and

perhaps physiological adaptations and have acquired intimate knowledge or the ‘

food and water resources within their home range which is passed on iron:
generation to generation. Thus it is extremely unlikely that, if the present desert
dwelling elephants and rhinos were exterminated, they could be replaced by the
translocation of animals from other areas.

The whole of the Kaokoveld was proclaimed a game reserve in 1907 and
remained as such until 1970, when the South African Administration deproo
claimed all but a thin strip along the coast in order to create tribal homelands tor
the Herero and Damara people.

Having lived in and been administratively responsible for the agriculture ol
the Kaokoveld, 1 am convinced that the arid western parts of the region are
ecologically unique and this, coupled with the spectacular desert scenery and
the fact that it is very marginal for human settlement, give it the potential to be
one of Africa's finest and most important national parks. After the Kaokoveld's
deproclamation, I therefore recommended that the western parts of the region
retain their conservation status and be incorporated into the adjoining Skeleton
Coast Park to provide a sanctuary for the desert-dwelling elephant and rhino
and other large mammals. These subsequent pleas by myself and leading
conservationists were ignored by the South African authorities.

While I was resident in the Kaokoveld, I developed a close association with its
tribal peoples and was particularly impressed by their generally harmonious
relationship with potentially dangerous Species such as elephant and rhino.
Other game species were only hunted when the peOple were in need or, in the
case of predators, when they threatened livestock.

In the Kaokoveld, as in other parts of Africa, large-scale illegal hunting for
ivory and rhino horn took place during the 19705 and, by the end of the decade,
there was a ﬂourishing black market trade out of Southern Africa. This was a

332

arm!
Airlt’f
dwell:
. \tlﬂL’
‘m' in
*m K
”01
\aoki
.;H¥Cf
itlt'n’ ‘
inlv z
mum;
the L‘
.lecm
about
Re;
wholi
of C0
Reprt
Ii‘ldlt)1
tribal
”1011’
in
gamt
guan
Wild

stapl
Th

place

 




great temptation to the local inhabitants whose pastoral economy had been
undermined by the worst drought on record, and as a result, by 1981, the desert-
dwelling elephant and rhino of the Kaokoveld were .well on the road to
extinction. Realizing this, the African Elephant and RhinoSpecialist Group of
the International Union for Conservation of Nature and Natural Resources gave
the Kaokoveld populations of both species their top priority for conservation.

However, in 1982, when I returned to the Kaokoveld as the field officer for the
Kaokoland/Damaraland Desert Project of the Namibia Wildlife Trust (a non—
government conservation organization set up to assist the State authorities in
their fight against illegal hunting), the Namibian authorities still had stationed
only a single officer, Chris Eyre, with one assistant in the region. The situation I
found was catastrophic. Fewer than 300 elephants and 60 rhino had survived in
the entire region, and almost all other big game populations had also been
decimated by drought and uncontrolled hunting. Unless something was done
about the situation fast, the Kaokoveld’s magnificent wildlife was doomed.

Realizing that we did not have sufficient manpower to adequately patrol the
whole area we set out to gain the support of the local inhabitants by a campaign
of conservation education which resulted in both the Herero and Damara
Representative Authorities totally banning hunting in the region. This was a
major breakthrough as poachers would now also be breaking the laws of their
tribal leaders, and contraventions would have social implications that would be
more serious to the hunters than going to prison or paying fines.

In mid-1983, in conjunction with Herero headmen, I started the ”auxiliary
game guard system” by which headmen appointed local tribesmen as game
guards who then received basic training and regular supervision. The Namibia
Wildlife Trust and later the Endangered Wildlife Trust supplied the guards with
staple rations and a small monthly cash allowance.

Their main function was to notify us of any hunting that might have taken
place in their areas; however, they were not undercover informers and all their

Traditional Himba pastoralists —
the nomadic human inhabitants
of the northern Namib. The man
in the centre is a member of the
auxiliary game guard force which
was created to assist the
authorities in theirﬁght against
poaching.

333

 

 

 




 

.- w: .m *3»:-

,'~.._.uoz 2-“ p.-

A bull elephant gunned down from a helicopter on the banks of the Kunene River. The poachers used a
chain saw to remove the tusks and feet from the carcass.

activities were conducted in the open. When evidence of illegal hunting was
found, the cases were discussed with the area headman who gave us invaluable
support in our investigations and, with few exceptions, we were able to get
successful convictions.

The auxiliary game guards have played a major role in detering would—be
poachers and keeping us informed about general game and human movements.
However, I believe that the most important contribution of the system has been
to directly involve the local community in the conservation of their own natural
resources. Ultimately, these people will rightfully be responsible for what
wildlife survives in the Kaokoveld, and this augurs well for the future.

Currently, although there are more government nature conservation
personnel in the region, the local support for conservation is still the key factor
in controlling poaching; in fact, poaching for elephant tusks or rhino horn has
virtually ceased in the Kaokoveld and the numbers of both species have increased
for the first time in over 15 years.

Unfortunately, State funds are still not available to support this unorthodm
system and, consequently, further financial assistance is still urgently needed h
carry out further work of this nature, both in the Kaokoveld and other tritnr'
areas where important wildlife populations are threatened.

 




ANIMAL

National Office: 333 Market Street, Suite 2300, San Francisco, California 94105
New York Office: 205 East 42nd Street, Room 1716, New York, New York 10017

11111 1111 11111 11 11111 1
11111 1111 1111111 111 1111
‘ 111 111 111111

c
.- x- w

4

“E . £938 §

1111 1111 1111 1111 111
11111 111 1111 11 11 1111
~‘11 111 1111 11111 11111
111111 1111111 111111111 111 111111111 111111111 111 11
1x 11111 11 111 11 11 11 111 1111 11111 11 111 1111

11111 1111111 1111 111 11111111111 111111
11111111 111 1111 11 1 1111111 111 11 111
11111

1.11 111111,;» ' a 11111 11111111111 11 1111111 1111 111 1111 111 1111
11111 11 111 1:1. 1* 111 11111 111 11 111 111 11 111 111 111 1111111
11111 '1 51w y'12111“.1 11 111 1111

1.-1111 111111 111 1111 1111 111111 1111 111111111
1111111 *11 :“- 1 111111111 111 11111 11111111 11 1111 1111 11 1

 

{PM

111 111 1 1111111111111111 11 11111 111 111 11111 11 1111 11111

W

111111 11111 111 111 111111111 111 1111111 11111 11111111 1111
1111 1111 111 111111111 11111 11111111 1111111111 11111111 1111

 

1111 1111 11 11111

1111 111111 1 111111111 111111111 111 111111 111111 11111 11 111 1111
1111 111 1111 111, 1111111111111% 111 1111 11 111 1111111 111111 111 1111111
1111 11111111111 1111 1111 111 111 1111111 111111 111111 111 1 1111111

111 111111 11111 1111 1111 111

111% 111111 11111 11 11111111 111 111 1111111 11 111 1111 11 1111
111 111 1111111 111 1111111 1111 11111111 111 111111111 1111 11 111111

1 .,
i e I 9 K. a, .va. 0 ; v
”V . 'c- 1
11111111 1113 1 1111mm : z
5
501°11- N: muse gig 13.111111,“ ' 9,, y
, ..
.
. \ .:
1 a. < ‘5
-. . 1 .9“ I ,
' >9 4‘ ~
\. v . 4. o‘ "' . .
, g _ .V *
a 911‘... 11.9.1.1 -
a: '3
’0’ ”’5"? ‘3’34: ",ﬁ ”51.11), (0‘ < .12" é .
M :60 A, 2w 3 .1 .s-. 1/ .1 .v "1.1.1.: 11 2' of , é : '3:- 5.3-» .

11111, 1111113

CHAPTERS IN: Boston, MA 0 Chicago, IL 0 New York, NY 0 San Francisco, CA 0 Seattle, WA 0 Washington, DC

BOARD OF DIRECTORS: Steve Ann Chambers, David Favre, Roger Galvin, Richard Katz, Peter Lovenheim, Sarah H. Luick, Arthur Margolis,
Jolene R. Marion, Nancy Ober, Kenneth D. Ross, Laurens H. Silver, Valerie Stanley, Steven M. Wise

EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR: Joyce S. A. Tischler

 




imperiled esieelsa seieels that people leveg heissls she sesesve see
etteeties she assisheeeeg

st see sense} eeefeeeeee less meets? ALE? etheeheys seeded steeies sheet
the feshmgeeeieg eeseieees sf eseegeeey eeseeeses they hesdleg K see
seeeesses hy the heeeeeh sf see eeeeeelisheestsa Bee 1 see treehlee by the_
seeeshs sf eases es eeslee¥h hehe es heeeese sf sheffieg sheehsgesa

he egeeee thee seeehhieg hes he he sees?

Thesgs shy*ee?se eheses Jesseey isss es the sets he lesheh see EMERQEECY
,EES?QQ$E sETthKQ heeegs gees e seseiisg sf she hises sf eeeegeeey sells the
heheeeh sill hesdle:

5 heheieee Teeees Seefreetehiess; A leedleed hheeehees eh eleeely
peeseh eihh eeiesiee heesese she heees es eeieei eeeeesiesg $he
hesesh eeeeises es slhisehes: Get his sf she shims}? eh eeeehe
she eessises eihhse tee eeysu ’—

ﬁeeseieehiees theehee: s shssesh ehjeehs he eeihg eeseeeeh es
s hiss ssisei es sisseetiesg hes is assessesee eihh fisehssg
she eeeeses

seiesl Rights setisishs Befesse: se esieei eights geese sﬁeges
e eeseefel seemih eh s seseeeeh ieh eeseeehseg¥eeeei eseesgeesss
es issesess esisslsg €he eeliee eesest the eeeeestestees see
heel shes eff he 3e21,

ssiesl Cruelty Feevestieh: A geeee deg is seseeely shesee she
eelseseishee by his sees?» his sensities is eepeehee ts the
Less} hemese seeiety, het his ease gets sired is legs} see tspea

These eases eeeeise immediate legal eetiehg ens ALDF is seedy and
waiting he lend e heme whee it‘s messed east;

* Advising s seheht on his rights and legal remedies when as animal
is endangered.

e hegetishihg eish seheels end eolleges so that they will effes shseeshs
elteehetives he disseetiee er experiments eh live animals.

h serehgihg heil esd legal defense for an animal activist.

§ sssishihg es ehesed animal who‘s slipped through the creeks 0f the
isgslﬁjseieiel hseeeeereey”

ALDF is eeeeittee to protecting ehisals’ rights with all the legal
researces et ses diseeselo But eight now these resources are stretched to

the limihw
We are seveeely sheetmhended. ALB? has only tee fullwtime attorney .
Our ether members velehteer their time because they love animals.

(next page, please)

 




an” 'P

wee».

Yon can well imagine the hundreds of calls we get for animals in dire
need of our unique services. The sad fact is, we simply can't respond to
all those who urgently need our help. That's why we need the Emergency
Response Network.

ALE? is the logical group to establish this Network.

There are a lot of groups working for animal protection. But only ALDF
has the expertise to deliver the legal services that can be crucial to saving
an animal’s life. We have the knowuhow and the commitment to establish and
direct the Emergency Response Network.

When Maraie friends contacted me at the San Francisco office of ALDF,
time was running short. It was too late to challenge Mara's sale in the
eonrtst so i entered into direct negotiations with the zoo owner.

Within a few days I had hammered out a deal allowing the citizens’
eonaittee to purchase here from the zoo. But then a whole new problem arose.
where eenid hare live?

he had no eaperienee in finding homes for two~ton African elephants. But
we eere aheoletely committed to finding a permanent, natural habitat for
here me one where she could live without chains or the threat of abuse.

She eae too tame to survive in the wild. But we would never abandon her
to another aoo.

he didnit have to. Through perseverance and a little luck, we found an
ideai_eeletienl working with a local animal welfare group, we located a
anieee wooded environment on private land in central Florida.

l flee there to inspect here’s prospective home and to arrange for her
contineed care. I found a spacious 200~acre estate where 94 elephants roamed
free in massive, protected fields. There was even a separate herd of young
elephants that could assimilate a tame animal like Mara.

it was almost too good to be true!

All that remained was arranging Mara’s transportation across the country.
Again? no small task. With a little work, we convinced Flying Tigers air
freight to transport their firstmever pachyderm cargo.

But the best part of this ALDF story is its happy ending. Mara made a
splendid transition back to herd life. Not only did the herd accept her, but

by all accounts she’s graduated to leader of the pack.

Unfortunately, too many other animals need our emergency help just as
much as Nara did.

Fortunately, ALDF is here to defend them, but we need the resources to do

the job.

(over, please)

 




m @ w

ﬁﬁ ax ALE? sapp®ytaﬁg §0§§VQ alrﬁaéy ﬁhgwm yax ﬁﬁfﬁ ﬁaagly aﬁmat @ﬁimai
walfara aaﬁ aﬁimﬁl wigﬁtgg Egg kﬁaw bﬁttar thaﬁ maﬁa paﬁ§ia §§$t ﬁQw aritiaa:
thg ﬁﬁéﬁ i3 far ﬁg? Emerggﬁay RQS§QQ$€ ﬁatwark$

ﬁat iﬁtgﬁ fﬁﬁﬁ it? thg Emﬁrgﬁaﬁy ﬁﬁﬁﬁﬁﬁ$$ ﬁgtwark w§ll Qaga mgmaya %@
&&&& fwaﬁg ﬁg:

Eg ﬁipg a ﬂaw fuiiwtima gtaff ﬁttaraay far ﬁg? 3&& gram$§$aa foiﬁﬁa
@art @f hi3 a? ﬁg? gab Wiii bﬁ ta gat §$ aha ﬁgarﬁiﬁatar far iachiﬁg
Eweygﬁﬁay ﬁasﬁaaga Qa$§3g an@ t@ §ﬁﬁﬁay @ﬁ&%iﬁ £$E§ 3% ﬁﬁﬁpﬁﬁﬁ ﬁg aviaag ﬁg
ﬁﬁgy §§i$eg

26 Laaate gammga§ im EQWQS aﬁd Qiﬁiag aa?@3$ ﬁﬁg agamﬁwy @ﬁ a aaagmbym
Gaga §&$iga kawg amd ragalatiamg vary wiéaly fram aaata ﬁa ﬁtﬁtﬁa g iaagl
ataaraey 3% inaﬁ gaﬁt &@&i@§@@ ta haaﬁia amargﬁaay aﬁgagg

&§ %aa&ma §&?%

A

3a @gzz 3a? $a§p@?ﬁ%?$ ﬁ§ﬁa§ é%& ﬁfﬁgﬁﬁﬁ§ $9 thay @
ﬁatwayk &ﬁé hgig a3 igaatﬁ ﬁhg aﬁimaig ahat ﬁﬁﬁﬁ ﬁg? ha}? @%@ ﬁﬁ$7g

§§ﬁ awwmiﬁg ﬁg yﬁa ﬁg? ygar garﬁgﬁgi aﬁﬁ§ im laggﬁﬁim*
pfﬁgaaﬁ ﬁaﬁgaﬁg§ fw&ﬁkiyg gggi Qaagia jﬁﬁﬁ ﬁﬁﬁgﬁ ﬁ§$ﬁ ﬁﬁﬂﬁgg
ﬁﬁfﬁﬁﬁ iﬁam$ I gﬁaw yaw dag

E gaga E 6&ﬁ an3% ﬁg §QQ ﬁg aavg av? amimg
giaﬁt ﬁkﬁ§ fﬁwwayﬁ im 1@g&3 $?ﬁ$ﬁﬁiiﬁﬁﬁ Egg? gi
w&a%&¥@r ygm Q g fimﬁ iﬁ iﬁ gag? ﬁaaﬁa ﬁg gi?%_ww wi“’

‘9

a
ﬁa?& wgii $Qa§a &%§$@3 ggffﬁyiﬁg gag ﬁvgﬁ @ﬁﬁﬁﬂg

v Q
2

$3$§$® givﬁ $3 gﬁﬁﬁ?ﬁﬁﬁiy ﬁﬁ yaw gag @@ iﬁg gm ﬁgam;ﬁ ,,;
Amﬁ ﬁg 2% ﬁﬁéaym €ﬁ@?% a?% 3% mgmy $ﬁiﬁﬁiﬁ %&iaiﬁg fa? war 2

ﬁgyaa gﬁ é% €i$§ﬁﬁar
EXﬁQﬁtiVﬁ ﬁiragtar

é

?»S% ﬁg yaaaiya ﬁﬁiﬁﬁl @ﬁﬁﬁgﬁﬁﬁy aaiiﬁ @ygyy ﬁ&§& %§&§ ﬁ?% ﬁﬁﬁﬁiw
ﬁamﬁimgg %% wgﬁﬁ $3 $ﬁ$§®ﬁ$ ta ail @f ﬁhama §i§§$a yaﬁayﬁ ﬁﬁQ @ﬁﬁiﬁﬁﬁﬁ fﬂfﬁ
aaﬁ gag? ﬁh$ﬁk ﬁgﬁay $§ %@ @&ﬁ ﬁﬁﬁg if gag @? &@ aaimai yﬁg iaga ﬁﬁﬁﬁﬁ igggi

pYGQQQ33Qﬂw

fﬂﬁﬁgyﬁﬁiﬁﬁiaﬁiﬁﬂaﬁﬁ%ﬁfﬁﬁﬁﬁfﬁgﬂéﬁ§hiﬁé€§Q$§Y9ﬂﬁ§%%XﬁﬁﬁﬁﬂiﬁfgﬁﬁeEﬂﬁyiﬁéaﬁﬁﬁﬁadinﬁﬁﬁﬁgiﬂE3$$fyaﬁigﬁﬁﬁﬁ
gﬁﬁgfﬁﬁeﬂiﬁf$3ﬁ8ﬂ3ﬁkﬁEQ§Cﬁaﬁﬁﬁﬁ§%@§%%ﬁﬁﬁﬁgﬁﬁﬂﬁﬁﬁ§£Y.@2233,ﬂf&ﬁﬁﬁﬁ§h§§a§ﬁﬁﬁﬂﬁﬁégﬂﬁdt

 




'1’“,

!

V‘H‘t H ..
‘ v

 

 

MONDAY, 'VFE‘BBUARY 1, 1988

LION

AND

TIGERS

AND

HYENAS

MY!

Couple ﬁnds that mutual
respect rn dealing with animals
is as important as respect

in human families

‘. . . animals and
their reactions
to us largely
depend on how
we ’ve treated
them. I ~ Mark Owens

—— v

I-IJ E5,

By Keith Henderson

Staff writer of The Christian Science Monitor

 

New York

‘ ’D much rather face a
lion.”
That’s how Delia

Owens feels about the
poachers she and her hus-
band, Mark, will have to confront as
they pursue Wildlife research in
Zambia’s Luangwa National Park.
Lions, by contrast, are old
friends. During seven years of work
in the remote Kalahari region of
neighboring Botswana, this person-
able couple - he from Ohio, she a
Georgian — grew to know and love
dozens of lions.

' They darted and tagged them to
trace their migrations. The big cats
became individuals, complete with
names — Bones, whom they nursed
back to health after a badly broken

, leg, standoﬂish Chary, ever-curious

Sassy. Lions frequented their camp,
slept a few yards
from their tent,
“borrowed” their
food.

Brown hyenas
provided other
memorable hours
in the Kalahari.
These rare, elusive
animals had been

tary scavengers.
Mark and Delia discovered, instead,
a complex, clanlike social structure
among them, with hierarchies, terri-
tories, and cooperative cub care.
“We were working with naive
animals — they’d had no experience
with man,” says Delia.
Not that the researchers were

‘ ': never afraid. :‘It’s pretty clear when

 

thought to be 30“"

Delia andMark Owens cradle a wild cub

a lion is scrutinizing you as a possi-
ble meal, Mark explains. They
crouch and stalk. Then it’s time to
wave, shout -— anything to show
you’re not some odd variety of
antelope.

But the basic lesson is respect.
“The relationships we developed in-
dicate animals and their reactions to
us largely depend on how we’ve
treated them,” Mark observes.

The Botswana episode in the
Owenses’ eventful lives was capsu-
lized in a recent National Geo—
graphic television special on PBS,
“African Odyssey.” It was fully doc-
umented in their 1984 best-selling
book, “Cry of the Kalahari”
(Houghton—Miﬁlin, $7.95). -

Over the past two years, a new
episode has begun for them, one
hinted at in the second half of the
TV show. They’ve indeed found a
new home in Luangwa National
Park, a chunk of near-pristine Af-
rica, where they can settle and ob-
serve surrounding wildlife - includ-
ing buffaloes, elephants, and zebras,
species not found in the arid
Kalahari. There, as in Botswana,

n.-..“--.s.

THECHRISTIANSCIENCE MONITOR

they hope a better under-
standing of the animals’ habits
and needs can lead to mare
effective conServation efforts.

But as the Owenses explain,
the prospect of living and
working in the park is hardly
as idyllic as viewers who saw
the special may have con-
cluded. Their tasks in Zambia
will be “much more danger-
ous” than their work in Bots-
wana, says Mark.

Poachers may see the re-

USlSINNVG ANOHlN

searchers as threats to their .

livelihood, so they’ll probably
need guards at their camp.
They may even need to arm
themselves at times, they con-
cede.

In BotSwana’s uninhabited,
desertlike outback, life .Was
“very, very hard,” says tall,
bearded Mark. “We nearly
died out there. We didn’t have
enough to eat — you couldn’t buy
enough to eat, let alone afford it.”

In 1974 they started out with
$6,000, their life’s savings, barely
enough to buy air fare, a clanking
old Land-Rover, a couple of tents,
and basic food and fuel. Withering
drought, furnacelike temperatures,
wildﬁres, poisonous snakes, tearing
brambles, and hungry insects await-
ed them.

“We were just so determined to
go,” Delia afﬁrms, explaining how
they surmounted odds. “And there’s
no way I’d change a minute of it,”
Mark chimes in.

In sharp contrast to their Bots-
wanabeginnings, the Owenses have
headed into Zambia with three
trucks, an airplane, and a full com-
plement of supplies — thanks to ﬁ-
nancial backing from the Frankfurt
Zoological Society. They also have
their “ﬁrst house” in 15 years of
marriage, notes Delia with a broad
grin - a mud wattle hut.

But they also have something
else they didn’t have in that barren,

» awe—inspiring place — relatively

23

MARK OWENS

close human neighbors, the Zambian
villagers who live on the perimeter
of the park. And that’s a crucial
difference. People have to be an in-
tegral part of the Owenses’ work 1n

‘t‘

Luangwa National Park. rid-«a,
A few of these people have beeni

recruited as elephant poachérs serv-

ing the international smuggling _
rings that deal in ivory. Some may -

poach antelopes for food. Many are
likely to resent having a large slice
of their ancestral surroundings —
the park — declared off limits.
“Colonial goverrunents and those
since have simply said, ‘Out! You
can’t live there anymorege’ainsays
Mark. You can imagine how they
feel, Delia adds, when they see the
occasional big-game hunter go in
and bring out trophies and meat
that they and their children can’t
legally touch.
Diana. McMee—
kin, vice-president
of the African
Wildlife
tion

‘Il’s amazing to
. ' Founda- $99 the eXCIfe'
the ’heanrilsStrff 1323' men, Of ”7959

people have to A be people in seeing

won over to any
conservation ef-
fort. “An education
program invari-
ably goes along with anything we
do. You have to convince people
that they’re not being kept out of a
park as punishment,” she says.

The Owenses have made a start
in this direction. They’ve gone to the
villages on the fringe of the Luang-
wa park and invited villagers to go
“on safari” for a day, taking them
through the preserve.

“It’s amazing to see the excite-
ment of these people in seeing the
animals,” says Delia.

“That has to be the key,” Mark ~

afﬁrms, a look of urgency creasing
his rugged face. “People around the
parks have to see them as a source

of rewar
A pragmatist, Mark is also not
Please see ANIMAL next page

the animals.’

- Delia Owens

 

3334-03512§-.’£»LBI.L‘-J~»I.rn*n~"w

 




m3? “it“, ﬁts-C2 " “1.34?“

 

EV" rm— :Y‘Nﬁﬁ NIT.

. TF3 :‘ix « w
.41 \zr‘x'fs it...» §tf2"“\/I' ‘

 

 

EQS , 5W /g- t:

We:

\\\I\Il\’\\I\'\

1% Ur W ’ 9534.3»

Magma Copper Company Agrees to Clean Up Smelter

he last Western copper smelter

violating the Clean Air Act is now

under court order to achieve full

compliance by November, 1988.
Magma Copper Company has agreed to
replace its old smelter facilities in San
Manuel, Arizona, withnew technology
designed to comply with sulfur dioxide
(SOZ) emission limitations.

The agreement was reached after
EDF brought a citizen suit to force
compliance with the Act. EDF won a
court order last January from US. District
Judge William Browning that threatened
immediate shutdown if Magma did not
quickly reach a compliance agreement
with the Environmental Protection
Agency (EPA) and Arizona.

The agreement was completed in
March, but Judge Browning’s approval
was delayed by Magma’s refusal to grant
EDF power to enforce the agreement.
TheJudge has now granted EDF’s motion
to be made an enforcing party to the
consent decree and has entered the
agreement under a court order.

In 1981, six of the 13 copper smelters
in the West exceeded allowable $02
limits. Smelter emissions accounted for
more than 70% of the 802 contributing to
acid deposition in the Rocky Mountains.

“Neither EPA nor the states had
taken any action to require compliance
by the copper industry,” declared EDF

attorney Robert E. Yuhnke, who directs
EDF efforts to protect the West from acid
rain. “EDF made it happen,” he said.
“When Magma complies in 1988, EDF’s
Western acid rain project will have re-
moved nearly 1,000,000 tons of sulfur
dioxide pollution annually from the air of
the intermountain West.”

 

EDF action also forced Phelps Dodge
Corporation to close a huge, uncontrolled
smelter at Douglas, Arizona, lastJanuary.
And pressure from EDF and key members
of Congress led the US. to negotiate an
agreement with Mexico to control emis-
sions from a new giant smelter just 60
miles from the Arizona border:

 

INSIDE

 

3 WETLAND MALL OVEBRULED
Court strikes down proposal to replace
marsh habitat with a shopping mall,
because developer ignored other sites.

YEAR IN REVIEW

Executive Director Fred Krupp high~
lights major 1987 victories, many with
roots deep in our 20year history.

THE LAW OF THE WATER

When modern laws proved too weak
for prosecuting water polluters, Jim
Tripp unearthed an 1899 law instead.

300.000 PDRPOISES

The staggering toll of drownings in
tuna nets spurred changes that have
reduced porpoise deaths by 90%.

 

 

 

 

(2 Printed on recycled paper

EDF Members’ Petitions Delivered
To World Bank President Conable

Greg Merhar

Lori Udall and Bruce Rich of EDF’s International Project present World Bank
President Barber Conable with petitions from more than 20,000 EDF members and
supporters protesting Bank funding of Third World rainforest clearing and other
projects that are both environmentally destructive and of dubious economic benefit to
the people of developing nations. Rich told Conable that the EDF petitioners should
also be viewed as a potential constituency for the Bank if it continues to pursue
environmental reforms.

EDF also gave Conable a letter endorsing the petitions from Rep. David R. Obey,
Chairman of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Foreign Operations, and a
joint statement from 35 environmental groups in 14 countries demanding further
reforms at the Bank. In his letter, Rep. Obey urged Conable to give the EDF petitions
serious consideration, noting that they reflect “the depth of concern of the American
public” toward US. support for World Bank financing of “projects and policies that
further environmentally sustainable development.”

 

 




 

 

 

 
   

Endangered Species Act
Advances in Congress

Bills to reauthorize the Endangered
Species Act were approved by House and
Senate committees in November and will
soon be voted upon by the full bodies.
Both bills contain EDF - backed strengthen-
ing amendments. Among these are provi-
sions to increase protection for endan-
gered plants on non-Federal lands, require
monitoring of “candidate” species pro-
posed for protection but not yet listed as
endangered, and increase fines and
penalties for Violators of the Act.

In the House committee, EDF and its
allies narrowly turned back an amend-
ment that would have delayed the imple-
mentation of regulations to protect sea
turtles from drowning in shrimp nets in
the Gulf of Mexico. A similar amendment
is likely to be offered again when the full
House of Representatives considers this
bill, perhaps during December.

EDF MEMBER ACTION ALERT

EDF members can help protect sea turtles
by writing to urge their Representatives
to support the bill approved by the House
committee, HR. 1467.

Energy Dept. Abandons Use of
Unsafe Container for Shipping
Radioactive Defense Wastes

EDF claimed victory in a recent battle
over TRUPACT, a container the Depart-
ment of Energy (DOE) intended to use to
ship plutonium-contaminated defense
wastes to a deep underground storage
repository in southeastern New Mexico
that was designed to hold the 6.2 million
cubic feet of such waste created in the
construction of nuclear weapons. Even
though DOE conceded that TRUPACT
could not meet minimum Federal safety
standards, it had self-certified the contain-
er’s safety and planned to use it for an
estimated 1200 shipments a year.

Earlier this year, DOE petitioned the
Department of Transportation (DOT) to
exempt TRUPACT from having to meet
the safety standards, but when EDF and
the entire New Mexico Congressional
delegation objected, DOT returned the
petition for more technical information.
Two months later, DOE switched course
and announced that it would hire a
contractor to build a brand new container
that could be certified directly by the
Federal Nuclear Regulatory Commission.

“I am jubilant that DOE has not only
abandoned its faulty container design
but is also committed to having NRC
certify the new shipping container,” said

 

EDF attorney Melinda Kassen of the
Rocky Mountain office. She indicated
that EDF will continue to monitor DOE’s
progress on the new container.

Conference Assesses New
Market-Based Approaches
To Environmental Protection

Qﬁ‘x‘t‘

    

EDF econo ist Dr. W.R. Zach Willey
spoke at a recent conference on New
Directions in Environmental Policy. He
announced that the US. Interior Depart-
ment has agreed to end the long-standing
mission of its Bureau of Reclamation to
dam and divert Western rivers and to
focus instead on water conservation and
protection of aquatic habitats, actions
long urged by Willey and EDF.

The conference examined the potential
of new approaches using economic in-
centives to conserve environmental re-
sources and control pollution. One such
program—tradeable discharge permits
that could be auctioned off by the
Government—would offer powerful in-
centives to find efficient and effective
ways to achieve ambient air and water
quality goals.

Jointly sponsored by EDF, the F ounda-
tion of Research on Economics and the
Environment, and Columbia University
Law School, the conference was attended
by representatives from government,
environmental groups, industry, uni-
versities, and elsewhere. Other EDF
participants included trustee Richard B.
Stewart, Executive Director Frederic D.
Krupp, economist Dr. Daniel J. Dudek,
and attorneys Thomas J. Graff and
David Roe.

Senate Batifies Global Ban
0n Plastic Pollution at Sea

The US. Senate, by a 93-0 vote,
ratified Annex V of the MARPOL Con-
vention, an international agreement bar-
ring ocean disposal of all plastics. The
November 4 action came shortly after
EDF had urged each Senator to approve
the agreement. The Senate is also ex-
pected to enact legislation soon requiring
U.S. vessels to carry out the Annex. The

German E. Mejia

 

House passed similar legislation in Oc-
tober. The President and Secretary of
State must now sign the Annex.

U.S. action will trigger global pro-
tection for thousands of marine animals
that die each year because of plastic
pollution. Annex V must be ratified by at
least 15 nations representing half the
world’s gross shipping tonnage. So far,
28 nations, representing about 48% of
world tonnage, have ratified. U.S. tonnage
would push the total over 50% and bring
the Annex into force a year after the
Administration formally deposits the
instrument of ratification with the Inter-
national Maritime Organization.

Conference to Train Attorneys
To Use New Calif. Toxics I.aw

EDF is co-sponsoring a conference for
attorneys on enforcing California’s new
Safe Drinking Water and Toxics Enforce-
ment Act of 1986. The much-discussed
law, passed as Proposition 65 by 2-1
margin of California voters, goes into
effect on March 1, 1988.

The event is intended to train at-
torneys and public prosecutors to use the
newly created legal tools, and it will
include discussions of case selection and
of recent commentaries by leading legal
experts. Among other co—sponsors are
the Natural Resources Defense Council,
Sierra Club, California Trial Lawyers
Association, and Consumers Union.

The conference will be held on F eb-
ruary 4-5 at the LAX Hyatt Hotel in Los
Angeles. For information and registra-
tion, contact Conference Coordinator
Louis Blumberg at (415) 661-8667, or
write Prop. 65 Attorneys Conference, c/o
Sierra Club California, 1228 N Street,
Suite 31, Sacramento, CA 95814.

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

U.S. Court Upholds 1986 EPA Decision Prohibiting
Shopping Center In Massachusetts Wetland Area

he Federal District Court in Bing-

hampton, New York, has upheld

a 1986 decision by the Environ-

mental Protection Agency (EPA)
to prohibit the use of a 50-acre red maple
swamp in Attleboro, Massachusetts, as a
site for a shopping mall. EDF attorney
James T. B. Tripp, who argued the case
for 11 intervening environmental groups,
hailed the ruling as “one of the most
important wetland protection decisions
in recent years.”

It has taken more than two years to
win this clear victory, which protects
Swedens Swamp, a valuable wildlife
habitat. Pyramid Companies, a shopping
mall developer, first applied to the Army
Corps of Engineers for a permit to build
in the wetland. The Corps has authority,
under Section 404 of the Federal Clean
Water Act, to issue or deny such permits,
acting under regulations issued by EPA.

InJune 1985, when the Corps indicated
it would grant the permit, EPA’s Boston

 

regional office began its own review of
the mall under Section 404(c), which
empowers EPA to bar wetland filling
that would have environmentally unac-
ceptable effects. EDF was active in the
long EPA review.

EPA overruled the Corps permit in
May, 1986, concluding that Swedens
Swamp served important ecological func-
tions and that Pyramid had alternative
sites for a mall at the time it was consider-
ing the investment. Pyramid sued to
challenge the decision. EDF intervened
in EPA’s defense on behalf of itself, the
Conservation Law Foundation of New
England, Massachusetts Audubon Soci-
ety, National Audubon Society, National
Wildlife Federation, Sierra Club Legal
Defense Fund, and five other groups.

Ruling Afﬁrms Major EPA Role
In Protection of Wetlands

The case involved a key EPA rule that
excludes non-water-dependent activities,

 

such as shopping malls, in wetlands
unless a developer can prove that no
alternative sites are available. EPA held
that a potential developer must show
that no alternatives existed when project
planning began, not just when the permit
application was filed.

“The court’s affirmation of EPA’s
interpretation will help protect wetlands
because it tells developers to search care-
fully for non-wetland sites before making
major real estate investments,” Tripp
said. “This opinion strengthens the role
of EPA in administering the Clean Water
Act’s Section 404 program, the most
important Federal regulatory tool for
protecting wetlands.”

“By upholding EPA’s interpretation
of its regulation, the decision also contri-
butes to preserving critical wildlife habi-
tat,” added Michael]. Bean, chairman of
EDF’s Wildlife Program. “Wetlands are
vital habitats for all kinds of wildlife,
including many endangered species.”

Six Prominent Individuals ElectedTrustees of EDF

Six new Trustees have been elected to
EDF’s Board of Trustees. EDF will be
further strengthened by their wide range
of skills and experience.

John Curry, an attorney in Chapel
Hill, North Carolina, is known
throughout the state for his conser-
vation work. He is past President of the
Conservation Foundation of North
Carolina and of the Conservation Council
of North Carolina.

Christopher J. Elliman is a part-
ner in the New York-based investment
firm, Elmrock Partners. He is Chairman
of The Adirondack Council, and has
been involved in energy and environ-
mental quality issues in Connecticut
and New York.

         

ELLIMAN I-IEINZ I

Teresa Heinz, Chairman, National
Council for Families and Televismn, 1s
concerned with children’s issues, human

 

  

CURRY LUNEY

rights, and international affairs. A Co-
Founder of Congressional Wives for
Soviet Jewry, she is married to Senator
John H. Heinz of Pennsylvania.

Percy R. Luney, Jr., Associate
Professor of Law at North Carolina
Central University, is an expert on
Japanese law and natural resource law.
He has done extensive research on legal
systems in Japan, most recently as a
Fulbright Scholar in 1986.

Lewis S. Ranieri is Chairman of
Livia Enterprises, Inc., a New York-
based private investment company. He
has a particular interest in Florida envi-
ronmental issues and has been active in
promoting responsible development
there and elsewhere.

Bailus Walker, Jr. is Professor of
Environmental Health and Toxicology
at SUNY-Albany and President of the
American Public Health Association.

     

 

Dr. Walker is one of the nation’s premier
authorities on public health and toxi-
cological issues.

 

RANIERI WALKER

At the most recent meeting of the full
Board near EDF’s Rocky Mountain
office, the trustees discussed EDF’s
new initiative in biotechnology. The
focus of the effort is to ensure reason
able risk analysis and regulation of
proposals to release genetically engi-
neered organisms into the environment.

The trustees were also briefed by
staff on continuing efforts involving
solid waste, incinerator ash, dioxin, and
groundwater protection. Joining the group
for a discussion of Western water issues
were special guests, David H. Getches,
Professor of Natural Resource Law at the
University of Colorado School of Law,
and David L. Harrison, a water attorney
and Chairman of the Board of The Nature
Conservancy.

 

 




 

 

Director Reviews Successes of EDF’s 20th Year

ooking back at the whirlwind
of successes around EDF in 1987,
one might well wonder how they
could all have happened at once.
The answer is that these accomplish-
ments were hardly “overnight sensa-
tions;” they started many years ago.
Even our underlying legal standing to
represent the environment in court—
something all US. environmental
groups now take for granted—was only
achieved after scathing battles begun
when EDF was born 20 years ago.

Several of our recent successes re-
flect tremendous perseverance on the
part of EDF’s scientists, lawyers, and
economists over many, many years.
Our 1987 victories in acid rain, asbestos,
endangered species, and clean water are
typical of such long-sustained efforts,
some begun more than a decade ago.

EDF’s newest initiatives could well
demand still greater perseverance in
the future. Major global problems like
rainforest destruction and the “green-
house effect” will not disappear over-
night. No less demanding are EDF’s
major new commitments to American
rural environments, biotechnology, and
source reduction—or reduced production
-—of hazardous wastes.

The responsibilities inherent in such
long-term commitments have caused
the Board of Trustees to establish
EDF’s first capital campaign, to build
an enduring foundation for the con-
tinuance of EDF’s work. This Program
for the Future seeks to support multi-
year undertakings and related needs
which now total, at a minimum, $5
million. Ultimately we hope to ask all of
EDF’s friends and supporters to join in
the Program for the Future. A nucleus
fund to launch the campaign is now
being formed from trustees’ gifts.

All of us—EDF members, friends,
staff, and trustees—truly have much to
celebrate and be proud of. Twenty years
ago, EDF was little more than an idea.
Now our full-time staff totals more than
75, our sixth regional office has just
opened in North Carolina, and our
roster of achievements includes many
of the most important victories of the
modern environmental era. You have
made these victories possible. Now,
more than ever, I hope you will help us
meet the crucial environmental chal-
lenges we face today and the new
responsibilities we must accept for the
future.

 

Frederic D. Krupp
Executive Director

WWW

 

Pete Carmichael

Global Environment

OEDF research and advocacy helped
bring about a landmark global agreement
to protect the Earth’s ozone layer by
freezing and then halving emission of
ozone-destroying chlorofluorocarbons.

OThe World Bank announced comprehensive new reforms and

 

 

OTBT, a chemical added to marine paint
to kill barnacles, was banned by Virginia
and several other states after EDF showed
that TBT is also highly toxic to shellfish
and other aquatic life.

0A four-year EDF effort finally led the
Environmental Pro-
tection Agency
(EPA) to force the
uranium industry
to clean up old
waste dumps and
switch to new tech-
niques that protect
the environment.
OIn response to
EDF actions, EPA
this year began
phasing out the
disposal of toxic
waste in landfills
and restored a key
rule intended to
prevent “midnight
dumping” of haz-
ardous waste.

rainforest protections closely parallelling what EDF has advo-

cated to make Bank lending policies more sensitive to envi-

ronmental concerns.

OThe Inter-American Development Bank
deferred loan payments for a highway in
the Amazon rainforest until environ-
mental concerns raised by EDF, Con-
gress, and the Treasury Department are
resolved.

Acid Rain

OEDF won a court order forcing cleanup
of the last polluting copper smelter in the
West. When it complies, in 1988, EDF
action will have cut the acid rain threat
to the Rockies by more than half.

OAn EDF legal victory requiring lower
sulfur pollution from a Hudson Valley
power plant will reduce acid rain in
sensitive higher altitude areas in New
York and Massachusetts.

OEDF evidence that emissions from
LILCO power plants on Long Island may
threaten these same sensitive highlands
helped defeat LILCO’s effort to win
exemption from New York’s acid rain
control law.

Toxic Threats

0A California judge, strongly supporting
EDF, ordered the state’s Governor to
begin enforcing the tough new toxic
chemicals law drafted by EDF and passed
by a wide margin of state voters in 1986.
OEDF’s 10-year effort to rid the environ-
ment of deadly asbestos produced final
EPA regulations this fall mandating
removal of asbestos hazards from 30,000
schools attended by 15 million children.

 

Solid Waste
OEDF has boosted
the economic attractiveness of recycling
and other alternatives to incineration by
revealing that incinerator ash may con-
tain toxic materials requiring special
handling as hazardous waste.

0 Seeking to spur the growth of markets
for recycled materials, EDF sued to
force EPA to carry out a decade-old
mandate that the Federal Government
purchase products containing recycled
materials.

OWorking with Virginia members and
others, EDF moved recycling and waste
reduction strategies into the fore-
front of state solid waste management
planning.

 

 

 




 

 

 

OEDF negotiated a historic agreement requiring special
devices be used on shrimp nets to prevent sea turtle drown-
ings; an estimated 11,000 threatened sea turtles die each year
in shrimp nets.

OThe threat of an EDF lawsuit won protection for at least 18
critically endangered species that were candidates for
protection but had declined further during months of unlawful
delay while awaiting Federal protection.

2”” OAS a non- governmental observer at the 1987 Convention on

EInternational Trade in Endangered Species, EDF helped
Edraft tough measures to save the critically threatened African

fielephant, a victim of the illegal 1vory trade.
Ii

Wetlands

0A coalition led by EDF conceived a bold action plan to save
Louisiana’s four million acres of coastal wetlands—40% of
the nation’s total—that now disappear at a rate of 60 square
miles a year.

0A Federal court upheld EPA’s authority to deny a permit to
destroy a wetland wildlife habitat for a shopping mall that

 

And Announces EDF’S Program for the Future

Wildlife

could be built on another site. EDF had strongly defended
EPA’s action to protect the wetland.

Water

OEDF and a large southern California water utility—a former
foe in river diversion cases—began a joint project to study
ways of reducing industrial production of toxic wastes that
pollute groundwater.

OTwo Federal agencies adopted almost verbatim EDF’s
economic analysis proving that the Two Forks Dam on the
South Platte River west of Denver is unnecessary.

OEDF helped draft a program to ensure adequate future clean
water for the more than 1 million western Long Island resi-
dents who depend entirely on groundwater that is threatened
by contamination.

  

T. Charles Erickson

OEmbracing reforms long urged by EDF, a California agricul-
tural water district plans to sell to cities and industries the
water it can conserve by no longer irrigating unproductive land.
OEDF’s innovative strategy for solving toxic agricultural
runoff problems—use of irrigation efficiency measures to
reduce polluted runoff—was officially adopted for California’s
huge San Joaquin Valley.

Founders and Friends Celebrate EDF’s 20th Anniversary

Executive Director Fred
Krupp (left) is seen talking
with Dr. Noel Brown, Direc-
tor the North American
Office of the United Nations
Environment Programme, at
a reception honoring EDF’s
Twentieth Anniversary. In
Dr. Brown’s brief remarks to
the trustees and guests, he
commended EDF for its inter-
national work on protecting
stratospheric ozone and safe-
guarding tropical rainforests. Dr. Brown, while noting that the
UN EP is only 15 years old, took pleasure in recognizing the ac-
complishments of its older colleague in environmental protection.

In the photo at right, EDF Founding Trustees Dennis
Puleston (left) and Dr. Charles F. Wurster meet with Lorrie
Otto and Fred Ott (far right), who were both of crucial help to
the new EDF 20 years ago. Lorrie Otto, now President of the
Citizens Natural Resources Association of Wisconsin, first

 

 

Photos by Doug Goodman

invited EDF to bring its DDT case to Wisconsin. She and Fred
Ott, now on the board of the International Crane Foundation,
then assisted and garnered the essential support that made
that effort possible. In Wisconsin, EDF’s DDT evidence
finally got the full hearing that had been refused elsewhere.
The hearing attracted enormous publicity, gave EDF a
national reputation, and was a vital stepping stone to the
1972 Federal DDT ban and to all of EDF’s later efforts.

 

 




 

 

 

 

EDF General Counsel james T. B. Tripp, one of EDF’s early staff members,

novelist, and longtime EDF Trustee.

t might not be the first thing you

notice about James T.B. Tripp, be-

cause you could just as easily find

him listening, not talking, with his
friendly hazel eyes alert and attentive.
But when he speaks, it is impossible not
to notice the resonant baritone that
rumbles from somewhere deep inside. It
is a voice that has been heard in court-
rooms in New England, New York and
New Jersey, westward to Texas, south
through the lower Mississippi Valley
states, and most especially in Florida,
where EDF’s General Counsel has won
precedents in groundwater and wetland
protection that will serve as models for
years to come.

Besides his courtroom efforts, this
dedicated and persevering advocate has
given advice and direction to legions of
local and state environmental groups in
need of counsel. He is valued for his
accessibility and is deservedly regarded
as one of the best environmental lawyers
in the nation. Long before others recog-
nized it as a national priority, Jim Tripp
co—authored a call for a coherent national
policy to protect our groundwater re-
sources from ever-increasing pollution

 

In an imaginative stroke of
lawyering,Jim invoked the
nearly forgotten Rivers and
Harbors Act of 1899 as a
tool against pollution.

 

and mismanagement. It was published
in the Harvard Environmental Law
Review in 1979, and no better statement
of the problem has been offered since.

At 48, Boston-born and Yale-educated,
Jim has spent 14 years with EDF, watch-
ing it grow into a multi-office national
organization with an international repu-
tation. He first arrived, newly married to
the former Ceci Moore and fascinated by
water problems, at the early EDF farm-
house office in Setauket, Long Island, in
May 1973.

“My interest in groundwater quality
was formed fairly early,” saidJim in his
New York office with its View of the
sparkling East River that separates Man-
hattan from the island where EDF began
20 years ago. “Just living in Suffolk
County made me realize that groundwater
was an issue,” he continued, referring to
the Island’s fragile underlying aquifers.

 

m
x
, 0
r:
-LlJ
::' a)
. t

(B
.C
O
,_'

 

lim Tripp in the Long Island Pine Barrens,
which he has done so much to protect during
his 1 4 years at E DF. The sandy Pine Barrens
are a critical recharge area through which
large quantities of water percolate into an
underground aquifer that serves as the sole
source of drinking water for much of the
population of Long Island. Heavy develop-
ment here would inevitably produce con-
taminants that would filter through the
sandy soil and pollu te the underground water
in the aquifer below.

But water protection had entered his
life even before Jim came to EDF. As a
US Attorney in the Southern District of
New York, where he tried some 40 cases
between 1968 and 1973, Jim had taken
over a Grand Jury investigation of oil
wastes from a Penn Central Railroad
yard that were leaking into the Hudson
River. In an imaginative stroke of
lawyering, Jim invoked the nearly for-
gotten Rivers and Harbors Act of 1899,
helping to make it a powerful enforce-
ment tool against a broad range of in-
dustrial pollution. He won the case and
felt a fired-up interest in doing more with
environmental law. “I didn’t want to do
corporate or criminal defense work after
the US. Attorney’s office. I wanted to get
into something involving public policy—
work that I enjoyed and thought was
valuable.”

Once at EDF, Jim’s work spread
around the country. Frequent travel is
still a regular part of his schedule,
although he insists that a three-week

 

is featured in this profile by jane F Geniesse, journalist,

stint in Tallahassee, Florida, is the
longest he has had to be away from his
family at any one time. This was during
a critical part of the Marco Island case, a
successful 10-year effort that Jim led to
prevent a developer, Deltona Corporation,
from building residential housing over
15,000 acres of mangrove swamp and
wildlife breeding grounds off the state’s
Gulf Coast.

One ofJim’s admirers, Dr. BernardJ.
Yokel, President of the Florida Audubon
Society, worked side-by-side withJim for
years on the case. “Jim has the capacity
to translate an understanding of wetland
systems into legal argument,” Yokel said.
“He is absolutely superb at cross-examina-
tion—and one of the more organized and
hard-driving attorneys I know.”

More of the same warm praise is
heard in Louisiana, a state with a quarter
of the country’s wetlands—including
swamps, coastal marshes, and precious
forests of bottomland hardwood trees.
Professor Oliver Houck of Tulane Uni-
versity Law School is a friend and
frequent co-counsel in Jim’s efforts to
extend Federal regulatory authority over
these resources. “The energy and in-

 

“He is absolutely superb at
cross-examination—and
one of the more organized
and hard-driving attorneys
I know.”

 

tellectual power that Jim has brought to
Louisiana is extraordinary,” Houck said.
“Without him, the state would be de-
fenseless in terms of getting the national
attention it needs for its wetland
problems.”

Although Jim quickly admits that he
isn’t really a naturalist, he has taken his
two sons, Benjamin, I3, and Zachery, 11,
on canoe trips in Florida, Louisiana, and
the New Jersey Pinelands. He recalled
that his own father, a stockbroker, was
interested in wildlife and occasionally
took Jim birding as a boy. Another
mentor who stimulated Jim’s interest in
the natural world was Clarence E. Allen,
the director of a camp in Maine where
Jim worked for three summers. Roger
Tory Peterson, who also worked at that
camp during the Depression, dedicated
A Field Guide to the Birds to Mr. Allen.

Continued on page 8.

 

 

 




 

 

 

The Campaign to Stop the Killing of Porpoises

ore than 300,000 porpoises
were “accidentally” killed each
year by US. tuna fishermen
in the early 1970’s. Now,
thanks to EDF, those high annual death
tolls have been reduced more than 90%.

In 1987, in fact, the number should be
the lowest since figures were kept, under
13,000. Although EDF believes that any
unnecessary drowning of porpoises should
be eliminated, the current level of mor-
tality is not believed to be causing any
adverse impact on the species or stocks
of the porpoises affected.

U.S. fishermen going after yellowfin
tuna in the eastern Pacific have been
getting an assist from porpoises since the
early 1960’s. Realizing that, for unknown
reasons, tuna tend to school under por-
poises, fishermen would set purse-seine
nets on the porpoises, in order to trap the
tuna below. They called this fishing “on
porpoise.”

The fishermen tried not to kill the
porpoises—after all, the marine mammals
are vital to their success. But inevitably,
some porpoises died of shock or got
caught in the nets and drowned.

The Marine Mammal Protection Act
(MMPA) of 1972 was prompted by the
porpoise deaths as well as by the commer-
cial slaughter of whales. Its goal was the
elimination of “incidental” mortality of

 

“EDF’s solution amounted
to a better mousetrap.”

 

marine mammals. It required tuna fisher-
men to reduce porpoise deaths to “insig-
nificant levels approaching zero,” but
the tuna industry won a two-year con-
gressional exemption from regulation.

In 1974, when the National Marine
Fisheries Service (NMF S) issued permits
allowing tuna fishermen to continue to
kill porpoises unchecked, EDF attorneys
Richard E. Cutting and William A. Butler
petitioned to sue. In January 1975, EDF
was granted standing in the case, the
first judicial recognition of the right of an
environmental group to sue under the
MMPA.

At the same time, EDF was working
to ensure that the ultimate regulations
would actually protect porpoises. In
September 1975, the NMFS proposed
regulations that embraced many EDF
suggestions. Chief among them was
establishment of a quota to limit por-
poise deaths incidental to tuna fishing.
Shipboard observers were also to be used
to monitor compliance with the quota
and rules.

 

 

A decade-long effort by EDF has saved thousands of
porpoises that were once slaughtered each year in

commercial tuna fishing

Attorney Butler continued to pursue
EDF’s lawsuit in Federal Court, rep-
resenting EDF, the National Audubon
Society, and 12 other groups. The judge
ruled for EDF in May 1976, ordering all
porpoise killing stopped until the
Government issued final regulations
complying with the MMPA. The tuna
industry promptly appealed, however,
and industry supporters in Congress
proposed legislation to undo the deci-
sion and to offer special relief to the
industry.

EDF won on appeal. Strongly sup-
porting EDF’s position, the court held
that the MMPA was intended to protect
marine mammals, not commercial fisher-
men. The ruling also cooled the action in
Congress, which had become heated in
1976 and early 1977.

The final tuna fishing regulations,
issued in late 1977, were a major victory.
Quotas steeply reducing annual porpoise
deaths were adopted. The regulations
also required the use of fishing gear and
methods that had been devised largely by
conscientious tuna skippers themselves
and had proven to be very efficient at
preventing deaths.

All along, EDF contended that tuna
fishermen could comply with the Act
without harming their business. In
fact, says Attorney Michael J. Bean,
who took over the case from Bill Butler,
“EDF’s solution amounted to a better
mousetrap.” The solution meant better
nets and techniques for using them,

 

better training for
fishermen, and a .. N x . \v 1.; R . in
better understand-

ing of the need to %
maintain porpoise

populations.

The quota for allowable inci-
dental porpoise deaths has steadily
dropped so that it now stands at
20,500. The industry objected to
the quota at first but still came in
below the limit every year but
one. This shows, Bean noted,
“The industry can do what EDF
said all along it could do.”

20

   

 

Observer Program Saved

Environmentalists are confident
that quotas are being met, because
Federal observers accompany
most tuna boats. The observer
program was in jeopardy when
tunaboat captains sued in 1980 to
keep observers off the boats.

EDF intervened to support the
constitutionality of the observer
program, providing evidence from
a fisherman that his boat, without
observers, killed porpoises at nearly triple
the rate of boats with observers. The
case went all the way to the Supreme
Court, which in 1984 refused to overturn
an Appeals Court decision upholding
Federal authority to place observers.

The porpoises’ battle against the
American tuna industry has been won.
“Next year’s reauthorization of the
Marine Mammal
Protection Act will
probably be the first
time in more than a
decade when the
tuna-porpoise issue
wonTt/b‘e controver-
sial,” Bean said.

EDF and Bean are
now turning their
attention to the
shrimp industry. ~ -------
More than 10,000
endangered sea turtles are drowned each
year in shrimpers’ nets. EDF has taken a
lead in resolving this problem, urging the
use of highly effective “turtle excluder”
devices (TED’S) that keep turtles from
entering the closed nets. Again, EDF’s
solution amounts to a better way of
shrimping: TED’s not only prevent sea
turtle drownings, they also appear to
increase the shrimp catch. EDF’s goal is
to show that good business and envi-
ronmental protection quite often go hand
in hand.

 

By Billy Goodman

 

 




 

 

 

B More Rare Species Protected
After EDF Threatens Lawsuit

ight more crit-
ically endan-
gered species
that were the
subject of a threat-
ened lawsuit by EDF
have now been added
to the Federal list
for protection under
the Endangered
Species Act.
Besides the but-
terfly pictured at
right, these newly
listed species include
the Little Colorado
spinedace, a fish
native to Arizona;
the San Rafael cac- . ‘
tUS, found OHIY in This Bay Checkerspot butterfly (Euphydryas editha bayensis) is
one county in Utah; being marked for identification in field studies; after release, each
and five wild plants: individual can be followed throughout its life. The subspecies is
theBlowout penstem- historically known from the San Francisco peninsula and its outer
mon, known only at coastal area, but over the recent past it has been reduced both in
three sites in Nebras- population size and geographical range as a result of theconstruction
ka' the Santa Ana of freeways and subdzvzszons, the introduction of exotic plants, and
' livestock grazzng coupled with drought. 0f16 colonies once known,

River Wooly-star only 5 remain, each facingpossible extinction.

and the Slender-
horned spineflower, both native to southern California; and the Toad-flax cress and
Welsh’s milkweed both found only in Utah.

Last summer, EDF served notice that it would sue to compel the listing of 22
species that had been proposed for the endangered list up to 32 months ago, but had
never been listed. Within weeks, 10 of these species were listed; now 18 of the 22 have
won protection. One species was found not to warrant listing, and final action on the
three others is expected soon.

Many Species Continue to Decline While Awaiting Protective Action

Implementation of the Endangered Species Act has been plagued by chronic delays
in protecting imperilled species. Besides the unlawful listing delays that EDF
successfully protested, the Fish and Wildlife Service has identified nearly one
thousand “candidate” species that are awaiting formal proposals to add them to the
threatened and endangered lists. Without pressure to speed the pace of listing, many
of these candidates are likely to decline considerably in the years that may elapse
before they are eventually listed.

 

 

 

 

 

James T. B. Tripp

Continued from page 6.

Through his mother,Jim is related to
several liberal reformers, including Roger
Baldwin, who founded the New York
Civil Liberties Union. Small wonder,
perhaps, that after college he should
study international affairs at the Univer-
sity of Munich or later study graduate
philosophy at Yale while concurrently
attending Yale Law School. He was in-
terested, he recalled, in “the constant
interrelationships between man and his
social institutions.” From all appearances,
he still is.

Working with the scientists and
economists in EDF’s New York office,
Jim has devoted considerable time in the
last few years to control of acid rain,
particularly at the state level. He was
responsible for filing a petition with the
New York State Department of Envi-
ronmental Conservation to set an air
quality standard for sulfates to protect
the environment against acid rain. New
York subsequently became the first state
in the country to adopt such a standard.

Jim’s interest in interrelationships
has taken on an increasingly more global
bent. He recently represented EDF as a
non-governmental observer at the United
Nations Environment Programme negoti-
ations in Europe and Canada that resulted
in a September agreement to limit use of
chlorofluorocarbons, to protect the stra-
tospheric ozone layer.

“The world is more interconnected
than ever—both environmentally and
economically,” he said. “The industri-
alized world’s use of energy and resources
must change dramatically in coming
years so that development in the rest of
the world is economically feasible and
not irrevocably destructive. We’re all on
this Earth together, sink or swim.”

 

ENVIRONMENTAL DEFENSE FUND
257 Park Avenue South
New York, NY 10010

Forwarding and Return Postage Guaranteed
Address Correction Requested

 

NON-PROFIT ORG.
US. POSTAGE
PAID
ENVIRONMENTAL
DEFENSE FUND

 

 

 

NEW YEAR FROM EDF an:

20 151111 s1£vea§u
NIH

\\\|\Il{~\l<\

%

 

JANUARY 1988

 

 

 




  

AFRICAN WILDLIFE FOUNDATION '

 
 
   
  

Dear Friend:

Imagine you're with me on a field study in Amboseli National Park,
Kenya ...

   
 
 
 

From our vantage point in the tall, dry grass we watch "Victoria," the
3—ton family matriarch, feed with her nine daughters and grandchildren.
Then "Virginia" lumbers into view.

 
   
   
 
 

Suddenly they run excitedly toward each other, raise their heads and
ears, click tusks and playfully entwine trunks, all the while rumbling,
trumpeting, and loudly flapping their ears.

 
 
    
 
 

You and I have just been privileged to watch a typical joyous greeting
ceremony between African elephants!

 
   
   
   
 
   
   
  
 
    
 
   
   
 
 
  
 
 
 
 

You see, like humans, elephants have an elaborate social structure.
They live in tightly knit families or "bond groups" that move and feed
together. When danger threatens, infant elephants seek safety under the
legs of their mothers or older siblings. Baby elephants even suck their
trunks much as human infants suck their thumbs!

Elephants are also highly intelligent. In fact, there is considerable
evidence that they even may use specific low frequency sounds to communicate
and to identify each other, much the way humans use names!

They even seem to learn to seek the sanctuary of national parks to
escape poachers. And tragically, the elephants even seem to know what the
hunters are after —- their ivory tusks.

And when elephants are shot with poison arrows and left to rot to ease
collecting the ivory, companion elephants have been known to hide the tusks
or smash them against rocks.

It's as though they are trying to fight back. But, of course, even
with their intelligence they are no match for the conniving poachers. And
each year tens of thousands of Africa's gentle giants are viciously
slaughtered!

The elephants cannot defend themselves. They desperately need help.
They need us ... and they need us now! Before it's too late.

That's why I'm writing to you today. I believe you are a person of
compassion, someone who cares for not only others but other species as well.

 

I want to urge you to join 30,000 other caring Americans in
the African Wildlife Foundation, for over a quarter of a

(over, please)

1717 Massachusetts Avenue, N.W., Washington, DC). 20036

 
 




century working around the clock to conserve one of nature's
greatest and most threatened treasures —- African Wildlife.

For unless we act quickly to stop this carnage, elephants will become
extinct.

Right now we desperately need funds for our elephant protection and
research efforts in three African sanctuaries: Amboseli National Park,
Tarangire National Park and the Selous Game Reserve.

It's as simple as this —— our field staff in Nairobi, Kenya, must have
$155,000 in the next 30 to 60 days. These funds are urgently needed to
support anti-poaching and research projects in these key elephant
sanctuaries and elsewhere in Africa.

Just what will your contribution be used for? Well ...

... We need funds to buy "radio collars" that can be used to track the
migration of elephants into vast unprotected areas outside Amboseli,
Tarangire and other parks.

... We need funds for boots, equipment and vehicles for the
anti—poaching patrols that can save the lives of thousands of elephants.

... We need funds for aerial surveys —— these are especially useful for
tracking elephant migrations and to count the elephants to get an accurate
picture of the losses from the poachers.

... We need funds to fight the agricultural projects at Tarangire that
encroaching on the elephants' migration routes.

... We need funds to support pioneering research on the social behavior
migration patterns of the elephants.

And we need these funds urgently!

How urgently? Consider that ...

In 1969, a continental survey showed the population of elephants in

Africa to be about one million. Yet, today these gentle creatures,

the largest land mammals on earth, have been virtually eliminated in

certain areas in Sudan, Chad, the Central African Republic, and Zaire.

In Uganda, the elephant carcass ratio indicates losses due to
poachers of between 65% and 90% since the late 19703 and early '805.

Throughout northern Tanzania, elephants have declined between 25%
and 100%. In the Selous, where there were over 100,000 elephants

in 1976, the numbers have now declined 50%.

Last year, a total of 60,000 elephants were slaughtered throughout

(next page, please)

 




Africa to service the $500 million-a-year ivory business.

I could go on and on citing grim statistics. But the bottom line is
painfully obvious —— unless we react quickly and forcefully, elephants will
become extinct.

And we and all future generations will have lost another unique
species, one that has survived for centuries upon centuries. That is until
it met its deadliest enemy -- man.

And that's why I urge you to join us in the African Wildlife
Foundation. To undo the already horrendous damage caused by those whose
only motive is greed, by those who, unlike you, have no compassion for
these truly magnificent creatures.

Of course, when you join us in the African Wildlife Foundation, you are
not only helping to protect the elephant but many other endangered African
wildlife species as well. For example, we are fighting an intense battle
to save from extinction the Mountain Gorilla and the black Rhino.

Why would anyone want to kill them?

In the case of the Mountain Gorilla, there is a black market in selling
their hands and heads as trophies! Yes, an almost human species has been
brought to the very brink of extinction —— less than 400! —- because some
thoughtless fools want gorilla heads over their mantle pieces! Even to
write these words sickens me!

And of course, the elephant's prized ivory tusks has made it one of
the most sought—after kills in Africa. After all, how can we human beings
possibly exist without ivory chess sets, fancy umbrella handles and
decorative combs?

So, please show you care. Help us save the elephant from extinction by
joining us right now.

You know, at the outset of this letter, I shared what it was like to
witness, as I have, the joyous greetings of an elephant returning to its
family.

But if these wonderful creatures can experience joy, they also have the
capacity to suffer sorrow.

Coming across the carcass or bones of another elephant, elephants
become peculiarly tense and quiet, feeling among the remains with their

feet and trunks. It's amazing to see!

Female elephants will sometimes starve rather than leave a dead calf.
Elephants have even been known to bury their own dead.

In one instance, elephants in Uganda broke into a shed where game
croppers had stored the ears and feet of slaughtered elephants to be sold

(over, please)

 




for making handbags and umbrellas stands. The elephants carried them off
and attempted to bury them with leaves and branches.

BUT ... as I said, elephants cannot fight off the poachers by
themselves.

They need the help of people who care. They need the help of the
African Wildlife Foundation to help protect them.

And right now we need you, your concern, your compassion and your
financial help.

That's why I urge you to join us so that we can immediately raise the
$155,000 we so desperately need.

Our dues are purposely set at only $15 so that as many caring friends
as possible can join. However, our need is so great that I ask you to send
as much as you can. The gentle giants of Africa must survive. Only you
and I and all caring humans can see that they do.

Sincerely,

(JUL an a4, a,

Paul T. Schindler
President

PTS/cms
encs.

P.S. As a member of the African Wildlife Foundation, you will automatically
receive our Wildlife News, an attractive and informative quarterly
which keeps you up-to-date on our conservation issues in Africa. AND
... you will also receive detailed information about unusual African
safaris, including special visits to view the gentle giants up
close. Believe me, it's a thrill of a lifetime and a photographer's
dream come true! These exclusive membership benefits will be on
their way to you as soon as we receive your completed membership
form. Join us now!

 




ATLANTA JOURNAL G CONSTITUTION - 10/18/89

USA TODAY
need to be . .

”By Rae Tyson
_ and Mark MacNamara

.gTrendsetters Say'lt’s Chic?
To Shun Ivory Baubles,
Hip to SaveElephants

ern water consumption.

Agricultural irrigation ac-
counts for 90 percent of West

. dealt with soon.”
tainted irrigation water.

the valley’s Kesterson National
Wildlife Refuge in 1982 have
been blamed on selenium-

like selenium and arsenic.
Massive waterfowl deaths in

ing salts and natural elements

 

Council report out Tuesday.

SAN FRANCISCO -- Envi-
-' :ronmental damage is inevita-
ble and human health may be
threatened unless Western irri-
gation practices are changed,
says a National Research

“We need to deal with the
environmental problems asso-
ciated with agriculture,”
agrees Ralph Grossi, a Marin
County farmer and president
of non-proﬁt American Farm-
land T rust “We think they

Scientists studying Califor-
nia’s San Joaquin Valley at the
request of federal and state of-
ﬁcials found irrigation helps
concentrate pollutants, includ-

 

The Associated Press
Ivory is

WASHINGTON
suddenly tahm in America. In an
et'fcrtto save the elephant -—— just
declared an endangered species
~— stores have stopped selling ivo-
ry, fashionable people no longer
wear it, and even Vladimir Horo-
witz agreed to accept something
other than ivory keys next time

dealers are switching to ivory
substitutes. Treated cow bone
seems to be the current favorite.”

William Conway, general di—‘
rector of the New York Zoological
Society, compared the situation
with a turnaround in the fur in
dustry a decade ago. In 1968 and
1969, furriers imported the skins
of 17,490 leopards, 23,347 jaguars
and 3,168 Cheetahs, he said, but

 

he orders a Steinway piano. ,

Jewelry made from elephant
tusks became unpopu ar so fast
that some observers see the trend
as evidence that a new environ-
mental ethic is taking hold among
fashion-setters.

under pressure from the public
stopped using those animals.

An international group, the

. Convention on Trade in Endan-

gered Species, approved a formal

ban on ivory trade Tuesday in

Switzerland after a long, bitter

Irrigation poses en

USA TODAY - 10/18/89
wherever sites show signs of

The report warns that other
refuges face similar problems.
Water pollutants aren’t now
a health threat, but, the report
warns: “The potential for hu-
man health impacts exists

.‘ mic» 7:
' .' » r
1!
A "

naturally
' €13an wildlife

viro

“It’s a grass-roots
It’s becoming unfash

wear furs, too,” said

movement.
'onable to
Reenie
rown, publisher of the trade

magazine Accessories. “There
seems to be a very strong trend
among Americans to think ﬁrst of
wildlife, of compassion, and not
our own vanity.”

“I talk to jewelers every day,
from Main Street to Fifth Avenue,
and they all express abhorrence
at selling ivory today,” said David
Federman, gemstone writer for
Modern Jeweler magazine. “If
they’re doing it, they’re selling it
under the counter.” _

According to Colored Stone,
another trade journal, “Many

fight and a compromise: The
measure sets up a panel of ex-
perts to consider whether counj

, tries with well-managed herds

might continue to trade legally in

ivory.

Steinway & Sons appealed
this summer to 800 “Steinway art-
ists” -— ranging from Mr. Horo-
witz and Van Cliburn. to Billy Tay— _
lor and Peter Nero _. asking
them to forgo the ivory-keyed con-
cert pianos the company had con-

. tinued providing them even after

switching to plastic years ago for
ordinary pianos. “Without excep-
tion, all were appreciative of the
environmental concern,” said
spokesman Leo Spellman.

should be retired.

concentrations of trace metals

messes »- - »

fifsééi‘iﬁie Green River
such contamination.”

A .
VA
.\

' Kdrenlck 2--
tion water more efficiently.

Changes recommended:
b Farmers should use irriga-

 

 

the overuse of water.”

b Farmland with the highest rather than returned to land.

mnental threat

 

b Raise water prices be-
cause current levels “are unre-

should be dumped in the ocean

> Irrigation wastewater i

By Sam Ward USA TODAY ;
alistically low and encourage

 




 

4‘

«waver-1w. “~91 0, 151's» 1: 1. 1- ‘ -

'l

l
i

 

 

Hotline Set Up for Students Who Oppose Dissecting Animals

San Fiancisco ( hrmu‘r 11

SAN FRANCISCO—- Biology students who
oppose the dissection of animals in class—
rooms on ethical grounds should u1ge their
teachers to consider alternative methods of
instruction, a national legal defense group
said.

More than 75 percent of all high school
students are required to dissect animals in
science classes - and risk lower grades and
intimidation by teachers for refusing to par-
ticipate in experiments, according to the Ani-
mal Legal Defense Fund. '

,1 “It §hould be the students right not to do

M ‘m‘ -1 0m .1... 9~».'b£ 1. L

 

 

something that violates their beliefs in the
course of thei1 education,” said Pat Graham,
who is launching a national campaign to ad-
vise students of what she says is their legal
right not to dissect animals.

Ms. Graham and fund members have un-
veiled a toll-free hotline —- 1-800—922-11 ROG ~—
for students who are being pressured to use
scalpels in class against their will.

Ms. Graham’s daughter, Jennifer, a 17-
year-old California high school graduate,
gained national attention for her refusal two
years ago to dissect a frog in her class at V1c-
tor Valley High School in Victowille.

Her case, which is pending in federal

4-.“

.11..4.......14.....4,.-.14._11.. 1.4.1-414.-4.~.441 _ 1 .41 .4...

 

Hyatt Regency Maui’s wildlife direc-

The
tor, K
of her favor

courts, helped to persuade the California Leg—

islature to pass a law ensuring the rights of~

students who refuse to dissect animals in

class.

Joyce Tischler executive director of the
Animal Legal Defense Fund, said there is a
wide array of viable alte1 natives to dissection,
including books, computer software and ana-
tomical models.

Ruth Doell, a biology professor at San

l
31
l
1
1
l

1

Francisco State University, agreed that alter- '

natives are available, but she cautioned that
society is not ready to eliminate the use of an-
imals for other areas of research.

 

ldee Jacobsen, poses with some
ite birds.

 

for Endangered Species

 

 

 

 

Hawaii Resorts Create Wildlife Refuges

HAWAI I Magazine - October 19 89
11 an effort to carve a niche for themselves in
the increasingly competitive hotel market in

 

Hawaii, a number of Island resorts have hit

I

upon a new way to add something special to
1 their properties as well as perform a needed pub-

Hyatt Regency Maui saw a rare scarlet macaw,
“Scarlet macaws are extremely difﬁcult to
breed, and even expert breeders have trouble
achieving success with these animals,” said Kil—

,. dee J acobsen, the wildlife director at the Hyatt
\ Regency Maui. “Our scarlet macaws have been

lic service. Resorts such as the Hyatt Regency
now an endangered species, hatch.

Maui have begun to use their lush grounds as

wildlife refuges, even going so far as to success-

fully breed endangered species. Last July, the
1 at the Hyatt Regency Maui for approximately ﬁve

years, and because of the excellent care they are

given, they surprised us one morning with this
3 new baby.”

 

 

FWWWW w 1 -~ - .

3
l
l

The macaws are part of the resort’s wildlife
collection, which includes African crowned
cranes, two species of penguins and 25 species
of ﬂamingos, swans, parrots, ducks and pea-
cocks. Due to the surprising popularity of the
birds —— Jacobsen conducts regular tours of the
birds and allows guests to be photographed with

some of the more tame species — the resort

plans on adding new species to its collection in
the future. Jacobsen, a former University of
Hawaii science student who once planned on be-
ing a veterinarian, was hired in 1982 as the re-
sort’s ﬁrst wildlife manager and has had to
pioneer techniques that allow the birds to be in-
corporated into the environment of the resort.
“At the time I came to the Hyatt, the pool boys
were feeding the birds, without knowing too

much about it,” she said. “I was basically start-
ing from scratch.” —R0bert .1 Hutchinson

 

 




 

NEW YORK TIMES INTERNATIONAL MONDAY, DECEMBER 10, 1990

Mombasa Journal L A

 

A Port Waits With Open Arms for U. S. Sailors

By JANE PERLEZ
Special to The New York Times ,

MOMBASA, Kenya, Dec. 6 — This
muggy port town, which for centuries
shipped decorative elephant tusks to
maharajahs and rhino horns to keep
the sultans in aphrodisiacs, is await-
ing the revival. of a more modern kind
of trade.

Expectancy hangs along the nar-'

row walks of the Arab old town and
the wide boulevards of modern Mom-
basa: When will the sailors from the
United States armada now serving in
the Persian Gulf alight for rest and
recreation? ‘ ,

“I’ve asked the consulate to inform
us,” said Daniel 0. Owino, the man-
ager of Kenya Breweries, who has
seen American aircraft carriers
come to Mombasa in the past and is
relishing the prospects of stepped-up
visits because of the gulf crisis.

“The sailors drink a lot of Tusker
premium,” he said, referring to one
of his company’s products. Extra bot-
tling capacity has to be arranged at
the brewery to accommodate the
1,000 extra cases a day that he said
are consumed when the ships come
in.

The Logical Spot

Whether the Navy comes to Mom-
basa is not yet a certainty but seems
a good bet.

“Say the gulf situation ended and
the Navy was not needed, they would
go home,” said the United States con-
sul here, Donald E. Stader. “But if
they keep the ships up there, people
will be rotated through here. I think
you can assume we will get ships.”

Geographically, Mombasa is the
‘ logical spot for the American ships in
the gulf to take a reprieve. North of
here, where Islamic conservatism
prevails, there is nothing with beer
and sex. Southward, economically de-
T prived Dar es Salaam in Tanzania
and war-torn Maputo in Mozambique
do not carry the same appeal.

For the last decade, Washington
has had the right to use Mombasa, the
biggest port in eastern Africa north of
Durban in South Africa, for the sup-
port of military operations and for
troop rest and recreation. The agree-
ment signed with Kenya in 1980 was
based on the idea that military access
to Kenya was useful while Iran and
Iraq were at war and the Horn of Af-
rica was a theater of the cold war.

But in the last several years, as the
strategic importance of Ethiopia and
' Somalia dwindled and the Iran-Iraq
war wound down, ship visits here
have dropped, with only one so far
this year after a high of 29 visits in
‘ 1985. Thus the appetite for more port
calls is high, even in the era of AIDS
when African women have found
American sailors a little more reluc-
tant.

“The ladies come all the way from
Zaire to come and enjoy,” Mr. Owino

1:91:33 _, : ‘ “ T' ‘4: ‘ . - do
Raymond Bonner/The New York Times

Mombasa, Kenya, which once relied heavily on the ivory trade, is now hoping for visits by U.S. Navy ships"
serving in the Persian Gulf. Tin tusks on a Mombasa main street recall the banned ivory trade.

 

KUWAIT

BAHRAIN
QATAR
SAUDI ARABIA

UNITED ARAB
EMIRATES

The New York Times
Mombasa hopes to become a rest
stop for sailors in the gulf.

 

said. “The Americans are big spend-
ers. With the AIDS scare, the girls
still come, the men entertain them.”
But in fact locals said many of the
women who have traveled in the last
several years by train from Nairobi,
the Ke 'an capital, and Uganda and

 

M‘

Zaire for American ship arrivals
have left disappointed. Before shore
leave, the sailors are rigorously
briefed about the high incidence of
AIDS in Africa and its transmission
on the continent by heterosexual sex,
Mr. Stader said.

The eagerness for ship visits should

not leave the impression that Mom-

basa, which with about 600,000 people
is Kenya’s second largest city, is
hurting. The opposite is the case. Its
equatorial heat seasonally air-condi-
tioned by monsoon winds, its pale,
fine sands, its easy mix of Arabs and

Africans and its rather exotic history '

have made Mombasa a haven for
package-tour holidaymakers from
Europe. While a few days of riots in
Nairobi in July deterred some safari-
going tourists, Mombasa is a world
apart from the highlands, savannah
and deserts of Kenya. Mombasa
hoteliers report their sprawling es-
tablishments along the beachfront
have been full all year.

Still an Islamic Town

One of the favorite hangouts for the
American sailors when they have
come in the past, the waterfront Flor-
ida Nightclub, where a large seawa-
ter swimming pool extends from the
red velour-walled disco; is filled these
days with German vacationers.

Until the Portuguese arrived in

1497 and Vasco da Gama can )an im-,

perial eye over the to nfTVﬁmbasa

trading port. The Portuguese used“
the place as a provisioning station for
caravels bound for India andbuilt the“
nowdecrepit Fort Jesus to defend the.
harbor from Arabs sailing in on."
dhows from the Red Sea. The Omanis‘j
pushed the Portuguese out; then fi-.
nally the British took over. Now about~
60 percent of the population is Af—‘i
rican, about 30 percent Indian and~
about 10 percent Arab. "
Mombasa remains a predomi»
nantly Islamic town, with the sight of
women in black chadors common,
But it is a moderate kind of Islam —-.-
some call it “the old Beirut type of“
Islam” —- and on a recent day two
young women could be seen stripping
off their religious cloaks, revealing
T-shirts and bare legs, and stepping
into the ocean for a cooling dip. '

For the United States, the Momi
basa consular office has always been
a remote war post. It. opened in 1915
during World War I, when Washing
ton was the protecting power for Geré
man missionaries in the region. A
dozen years later, the office closed
but reopened for World War II. It shut
down again in 1952 and reopened in
1981 as a backstop for the Iran-Iraq
war. The nearly 20 United States
Navy personnel stationed at the port
left in 1988, but with the present situa-
tion in the gulf, the recently arrived
Mr. Stader said, the American out-
post on the African coast- is staying in
business. '

i

 

was a thriving Ara x392 slave

 

. 1"“ m.:

 

 

’.w----- ~41.- -3...

 




6S cience Gives Ivory a
Sense of Identity

DNA ﬁngerprinting and isotope analyses may help solve the
African ivory conundrum by identijying the locales where tusles

come from

FOR MONTHS NOW, ELEPHANT TUSKS have
sat center stage during an acrimonious de-
bate: how might the community of nations
reconcile its desire to save from poachers the
remaining elephants north of Zimbabwe
with the legitimate wishes Of Botswana,
South Africa, and Zimbabwe to trade ivory?
In those countries, at least, elephants are
thriving and their ivory could be an impor-
tant source of cash.

As Science predicted (Science, 6 October, p.
1246), in October the member countries Of
the Convention on International Trade in
Endangered Species (CITES) overcame
their internal divisions and voted to
ban all trade in ivory for at least 2
years. SO far, the ban is holding up,
thanks in part to the cooperation Of
the southern African exporters and
Japan, the major importer.

But they are waiting for a recon-
sideration Of the question, promised
for 1991, that may allow some ivory
trade to resume. As they do so, the
dilemma on many minds is: how
might ivory culled from well-man-
aged southern herds be distin-
guished from the illicit ivory ped-
dled by the poachers? One tusk,
after all, looks pretty much like an—
other. .

Enter the scientists: it may be
possible to pinpoint just where in
Africa a tusk originated. An animal’s
DNA and its diet can both provide
the information needed to ensure that only
ivory from secure populations enters trade.

In many species, the DNA of populations
that do not interbreed much is detectably
different and labels the populations. David
Western, director Of Wildlife Conservation
International at the New York Zoological
Society, was aware Of the new techniques Of
DNA ﬁngerprinting that police detectives
have been using to tie murder and rape
suspects to their crimes. He asked John C.
Patton, an expert on DNA identiﬁcation
techniques at Washington University in St.
Louis, tO work with Nick Georgiadis, a
wildlife biologist with experience in East
Africa, to see whether the same methods
might also work tO trace the origins of
elephant tusks.

IIZO

 

Labelled primer
/'

w

DNA with labelled primer

First, Patton and Georgiadis had to dis—
cover whether they could Obtain usable
amounts Of DNA from tusks. As soon as an
animal dies, its DNA starts degrading,
chopped up by enzymes in the animal’s own
cells and in putrefying bacteria. But sun-
dried tissue can contain surprisingly intact
strands. SO Georgiadis visited the ivory
rooms Of Dar es Salaam in Tanzania and
Nairobi in Kenya—where ivory conﬁscated
from poachers as well as that from natural
carcasses is stored—in search Of the bits of
meat that poachers sometimes leave on the
tusks when they hack them from the ele-

Patton’s procedure.
Radioactive primer tags
one end of the ampliﬁed
DNA. Partial digestion
with two restriction en—
zymes creates fragments
separated on a gel, re—
vealing cut sites that dis-
tinguish DNA from dif—

 

_
Enzyme A

Sequencing gel

/ Cut sites
V VV

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

B

phant’s head. About one in ﬁve tusks was
“dirty,” and Georgiadis gathered 100 sam-
ples from tusks collected at known locations.

Back at the laboratory in St. Louis, three-
quarters Of the samples, especially those
consisting Of “tough, amber—colored tissue,”
proved to contain high-quality DNA, with
fragments several thousand base pairs in
length. SO it is possible to get DNA from
tusks. Phase two of the Operation, which is
just getting under way, is to discover wheth—
er that DNA will reveal diﬁerences between
elephants from different populations.

There are two basic techniques, ﬁnger-
prints and restriction maps. Both use restric-
tion enzymes, to cut the DNA at speciﬁc
recognition sites, and radioactive probes, to
identify the fragments created, but the em-

 

ferent populations.

 

phasis of the two approaches differs.

Fingerprints use a radioactive probe to
locate speciﬁc stretches Of DNA, released by
cutting with a restriction enzyme, which
vary in length from individual to individual.
Restriction maps seek the presence or ab—
sence of short sequences, the recognition
sites of various restriction enzymes,
throughout the DNA. Radioactive probes
identify the fragments. In both cases, the
fragments are measured by running them
through an electrophoretic gel.

The question is: will either technique
reveal any features of the DNA that can
reliably be used to discriminate tusks from
different populations?

The quick and dirty answer is yes: “One
of the gels we ran last night gave us what we
want,” said Georgiadis in a telephone inter—
view last week. “This marker differentiates
between Kenya and Tanzania. It’s what
we’ve been looking for, and I’m sure we’ll
ﬁnd more.”

Patton, meanwhile, has been developing
an entirely new approach to restriction map—
ping and using it ﬁrst to analyze the
elephants’ DNA. Conventional re—
striction mapping has some disad-
vantages, he notes. It requires sever—
al digests with different restriction
enzymes tO detect details of the
DNA. And that requires the use Of
several radioactive probes to reveal
the landmarks. “We are bathed in
radiation, which is a real pain,” says
Patton, whose new technique cuts down
on the radioactivity and “takes out about
two—thirds Of the lab work.”

Patton uses the polymerase chain reac-
tion (PCR) to amplify the speciﬁc DNA
segment he is interested in. That gener-
ates fragments with ends that he has
deﬁned. More importantly, he can label
one end Of the ampliﬁed fragment by
using a radioactive primer. The next step
is a partial digest; a small quantity of
restriction enzyme, allowed to work for a
short time, does not cut every site it could.
Instead, it creates a set Of fragments of
increasing length, each deﬁned at one end
by the radioactive primer. The fragments
can be run on an ordinary sequencing gel,
which separates the bits out according to
length, and the fragments produced by dif—
ferent enzymes can be run in adjacent lanes.
“The result,” says Patton, “is an instant
mapping of sites down to Virtually a nucleo—
tide by nucleotide level with a minimal level
of exposure to radiation.”

In his ﬁrst series Of experiments, Patton
has ampliﬁed part of a gene encoding a “zinc
ﬁnger protein.” This gene plays a part in
determining gender and certainly differs be-
tween males and females. Patton compared

Julie Cherry

SCIENCE, VOL. 246

 




Big bull. Almost gone from East Aﬂica.

the ampliﬁed stretches from two known
females with those from four animals of
unknown gender. “Three of the four animals
show bands that are unlike anything found
in the known females,” Patton told Science.
Those three are probably males. In the
future it may be possible not only to tell
which population of elephants a tusk came
from, but also the gender of the animal that
carried it, invaluable information for those
attempting to conserve and manage the ele-
phants.

A completely different approach to pin-
pointing the origins of ivory is to ask what
the elephant that produced it ate. One way
to do that is to look at the proportions of the
various stable isotopes of atoms in the tusk.
,Nikolaas van de Merwe, Clay Professor of
Scientiﬁc Archaeology at Harvard Universi—
ty, has been doing just that.

Van de Merwe is an expert on diagnosing
the diet of ancient animals by looking at
isotopes in their fossil remains. His current
project came about when he went to South
Africa this past summer to look at some
fossils. People there knew that he had exam—
ined elephant bones and ivory on a small
scale; with the CITES conference looming,
and the ban on ivory in the ofﬁng, the South
Africans asked van de Merwe if he could
apply his techniques to locate the areas
where an elephant lived. “The thing needed
sorting out quickly,” van de Merwe said, so
he coordinated efforts at laboratories in Jo-
hannesburg and Cape Town. “The tech-
niques are straightforward,” says van de
Merwe. “It’s just a different problem.”

Van de Merwe measures the proportions
of the stable isotopes of three elements in
the ivory, focusing especially on the ratio of
carbon-I3 to carbon-12. Tusks from differ-
ent populations reliably turn out to have
different ratios: why? “If you work up
the data for biomass of grass versus trees
and shrubs [where the elephants live], it
tracks [the ratio of 13C to 12C in the
tusks] just about linearly, for the sim-
ple reason that elephants like to browse and

I DECEMBER 1989

 

will eat grass if only pushed.”

Behind van de Merwe’s “simple
reason” lies the complicated bio-
chemistry of photosynthesis. Trees
and shrubs use the so-called C3
pathway to convert carbon dioxide
to sugars and other organic com—
pounds. Tropical grasses use the
more efﬁcient C4 pathway. The
two photosynthetic pathways have
different effects on the l3C:12C ra-
tio. The C3 pathway discriminates
against 13’C, so that in trees and
shrubs the ratio is much lower
than it is in C4 plants. The differ-
ences work their way through to
the carbon—containing compounds in the
animals that eat the plants and provide a
signature of the diet.

The carbon ratios give a pretty good
indication of the amount of grass that the
elephants have eaten, which depends on
where they live, but they can sometimes be
shaky about separating two locations. De—
termining the ratio of nitrogen-15 to nitro—
gen- 14 offers another ﬁx. The ratio of 15 N to
14N correlates with rainfall, which further
identiﬁes the origin of the ivory.

“And if that doesn’t sort it out for you
unambiguously,” says van de Merwe, “you
go to strontium isotopes, which gives you
the age of the geological substrate. Between
those three we have not found any ambigu-
ous identiﬁcations in 27 different areas that
I’ve looked at so far.”

So it appears very much as if, between
them, DNA analysis and isotope signatures
can be developed into workable identity

Leonard Lee Rue III/Animals,

 

cards for ivory. Will they be needed?

Richard Leakey, director of Kenya’s De—
partment of Wildlife Conservation and
Management, says, “it’s an expensive busi—
ness, and I don’t really think there is any
need.” According to Leakey, only a ban on
ivory trade will save the elephants. “No
matter how sophisticated our police force
and surveillance, if there is a demand, the
criminal element will outwit us.”

As a result of the ban on imports to
Europe and the United States, says Leakey,
“there is no value to ivory in Kenya at this
moment.” That, and beefed-up anti-poach-
ing patrols, allow Leakey to boast that no
elephant has been killed inside a national
park in the past 61/2 months.

The southern African states will continue
to cull elephants, and although they have
agreed not to export ivory for the next 2
years, they hope that trade will resume some
day. “I think it’s the only thing that is going
to conserve elephants outside national
parks,” says Nick Georgiadis. When that
happens, proof of origin will be an essential
element of the trade.

Van de Merwe agrees: “I think if there is
going to be a legal ivory trade down the
road, each pair of tusks that a government
wants to bring to market would have to have
a certiﬁcate with its isotopes. It would add a
bit to the price of ivory, but not much.” The
estimated cost is about $300 per tusk.

But even when ivory poaching is under
control, Leakey is adamant about resuming
trade: “We do not intend ever to put Ke-
nyan ivory back on the market.”

I JEREMY CHERFAS

 

Stehelin Persists in Nobel Protest

Can a fait accompli by the Nobel Committee
be overthrown? Dominique Stehelin of the
Centre National de la Recherche Scientiﬁ—
que at the Pasteur Institute in Lille, France,
would certainly like to think so. When the
1989 Nobel Prize for Physiology or Medi-
cine was announced in October, Stehelin,
backed by other French scientists and ofﬁ-
cials, complained bitterly and publicly that
the Nobel Committee did not see ﬁt to
award him a share of the prize with J.
Michael Bishop and Harold Varmus of the
University of California, San Francisco (Sci-
ence, 20 October, p. 326).

Now he has taken his case directly to the
Nobel Committee. In an open letter, which
runs four single-spaced pages plus three
pages of enclosures, Stehelin maintains that
the Committee has committed an injustice
“in excluding . . . the very person who car-
ried out the crucial experiments” for which
the prize was awarded. He summarizes his

 

contributions to those experiments, which
culminated in the discovery that the cancer—
causing oncogenes found in certain animal
viruses had in fact originated in the cells
those viruses had infected.

And what does Stehelin hope to achieve
in pursuing his claim? “I don’t see why they
shouldn’t overturn their decision,” he told
Sa’eme, “but if they don’t want to do that
then they should change the wording [of the
citation] so that it doesn’t reﬂect so narrow-
ly what I did in Mike Bishop’s lab.”

Overturning a Nobel decision would cer-
tainly be unprecedented, and this one seems
destined to stand. Earlier, Ian Lindsten, the
secretary of the Nobel Committee, told Sci-
ence that the committee thought that Bishop
and Varmus were the key persons in the
discovery. But then Stehelin can always
hope—at least until 10 December when this
year’s prize will be actually given out.

I JEAN MARX

RESEARCH NEWS 1121

 




 

The Structure of the
“Second Genetic Code”

Molecular biologists are hailing it as a landmark: their ﬁrst clear
loo/e at a key step in the translation of the genetic code

IN THIS WEEK’S SCIENCE, biochemist
Thomas A. Steitz and his colleagues at Yale
University present an x-ray crystallographic
structure that shows for the ﬁrst time how
two of the cell’s key molecules interact—an
achievement that other researchers are hail-
ing as a “landmark.” Says John Abelson of
the California Institute of Technology, “It’s
a spectacularly exciting thing to people in
the ﬁeld.”

Indeed it is. The two molecules in ques—
tion—one a transfer RNA (tRNA) and the
other an enzyme called tRNA synthetase——
are critical components of the machinery
that the cell uses to synthesize proteins. And
by showing in detail how these molecules
interact, the Yale group has greatly clariﬁed
a mystery that has puzzled researchers for
some 30 years, ever since that machinery
was ﬁrst discovered.

In broad outline, of course, protein syn-
thesis is well understood. First, the genetic
information encoded in a stretch of DNA is
copied into messenger RNA: a kind of
molecular data tape that will direct how
amino acids are incorporated into the new
protein. Then, a swarm of tRNA molecules
brings in the amino acids, lining them up
along the messenger RNA so that they can
be joined in a speciﬁed order.

However, to accomplish that task each
tRNA needs its synthetase, which is the
enzyme that links it to the correct amino
acid. And therein lies the mystery: how do a
tRNA and its synthetase recognize each
other? There are 20 different synthetases in a
living cell, one for each of the 20 amino
acids needed to make proteins. There are
likewise some 45 to 50 different tRNAs,
each corresponding to one or more of the
three-nucleotide codewords used by DNA
and RNA to specify the amino acid se-
quences of proteins. And worst of all, every
one of those tRNAs looks virtually alike: a
sequence of about 75 to 90 nucleotide bases
coiled like a tangled garden hose into a
crude “L.”

80 how does a synthetase specializing in
the amino acid glutamine make sure that it
isn’t attaching that molecule to the tRNA
for, say, methionine? How does the cell keep
from getting its proteins hopelessly scram—

1122

 

bled and thus making life impossible?

The Yale group’s structure promises to
provide some answers. “If there is a dictio-
nary for the genetic code,” Abelson says, “it
resides here,” in this tRNA-synthetase rec-

ognition process.

The recognition mechanism itself is some-
times called “the second genetic code”——the
ﬁrst being the set of codewords used by

Molecular imager. Interaction is the key to
recognition, says Thomas Steitz.

DNA and RNA to direct protein synthesis.
But Steitz, for one, ﬁnds that phrase mis-
leading at best. The very word “code” makes
it sound as though the synthetase were
functioning like a supermarket bar code
reader, always looking at one particular
piece oftRNA structure to see which of the
tRNAs it was dealing with.

“But that’s just not correct,” he says. The
synthetase that he and his colleagues have
imaged—both it and the tRNA are speciﬁc
to the amino acid glutamine in the bacteri-
um Escherichia coli—is actually among the
simpler ones, consisting of just a single

 

David Ottenstein

 

 

«A
protein. And yet its interactions with the
tRNA are startlingly complex, with multiple
points of contact all along the inner side of
the “L.”

It’s going to take a long time to sort out
which of these interactions are crucial for
recognition and which are not, says Steitz.
Nonetheless, the images are already yielding
some intriguing insights. For example, the
tip of the long arm of the tRNA “L” ﬁts
snugly into a deep little pocket in the pro-
tein. This was not unexpected, says Steitz,
because this tip region contains the tRNA’s
anticodon: a sequence of three bases that
recognizes the corresponding codeword on
the messenger RNA during the synthesis of
a protein. The anticodon was already known
to be crucial for recognition of the gluta-
mine tRNA by its synthetase. But the new
data shows for the ﬁrst time that the enzyme
interacts mainly with two bases of the anti—
codon and much less strongly with the
third—thus helping to explain how one
synthetase can recognize two different gluta-
mine tRNAs, which dilfer in the third base
of the anticodon.

Another striking interaction occurs on the
opposite end of the tRNA, where the tip of
the short leg of the “L” is inserted into a
gaping cavern in the enzyme. This is the
active site where the enzyme catalyzes the
formation of the link between the amino
acid and the tRNA. The Yale group’s struc-
ture also shows a molecule of adenosine
triphosphate bound to the lower surface of
the cavern, where it can supply the energy
needed to make the linkage.

In any case, Steitz and his colleagues still
have plenty to keep them busy for the next
few years. How is the amino acid recog-
nized, he asks? Is there an editing step to
ensure that the correct amino acid has been
attached? Is tRNA recognition completely
idiosyncratic? Or are there features that
show up in all synthetases?

For example, the cavernous active site,
which is known for historical reasons as the
dinucleotide fold, appears with minor varia—
tions in all synthetases whose structures are
known—admittedly a small number—and in
a wide variety of other enzymes. “So one of
the strong statements you could make about
evolution is that the synthetases all had a
common precursor containing this struc-
ture,” Steitz says.

If so, he adds, then this dinucleotide
structure must have been deeply involved in
a crucial event in evolution, the ﬁrst associa-
tions between tRNA molecules and amino
acids. And that means, in turn, that these
synthetases are worthy of close study: they
bear witness to the origin of the genetic
code itself.

I M. MITCHELL WALDROP

SCIENCE, VOL. 246

_ *1.

 




 

 

WW
1% 151M115
STATEMEMKCM 7

III (\ t l
' ' 1147/ ‘\‘ 1:! I“:

{All (/71? M14 -//{1‘ ‘ .‘ ‘

) I 'Jlu“ ‘ Eh‘f' 1 {\H R; «‘3’ b".\

\\\\\\\ u'l’ Cum“ \‘HV 4

.\ \ '

// [7,..1',’ if]; " V. i. , \~ »\;‘- ‘ \‘ .\

. 41%,], 1 ."'nl. .$ I} .\ x“ ‘ I

; : 4M /.‘:’ 'l‘. 'I.‘ . ' :1 b ' .z " >_{: I: . ’ ': ”1’ng :{I’L’lf
‘ . .- "

 

 

 

 




U.S. Department of Justice

UhﬂaiSMszﬂﬂnngz
Southern District of Florida

 

155 South Miami Avenue, Suite 700
Miami, Florida 33130

September 24, 1992

Christine Stevens
President

Animal Welfare_Institute
P. O. Box 3650 '
Washington, D.C. 20007

RE: UNITED STATES OF AMERICA VS. RICARDO LINARES
Case No. 90-967-CR-HOEVELER(S) '

Dear Ms. Stevens:

With regard to the above referenced case, I have enclosed for
your information a copy of the News Release.

As you can see from the news release, Mr. Linares was found
guilty on the most serious of the two counts with which he was
charged (illegally smuggling a quantity of worked African elephant
ivory from Nigeria into the United States). This conviction
carries a maximum prison sentence of five years and a fine of up to
$250,000.00.

Also, if at all possible, I would like to be added to your
quarterly mailing list (Lauren J. Priegues, Assistant United
States, United States Attorney's Office, 155 S. Miami Avenue,
Miami, Florida 33130).

Very truly yours,

ROBERTO MARTINEZ
UNITED STATES ATTORNEY

By: Arum Lox DWL

LAUREN PRIEGUES ;/

ASSISTANT UNITED STATES ATTORNEY

 




 

 

 

US. Department of Justice

United States Attorney
Southern District of Florida

 

155 South Miami Avenue, Suite 700
Miami, Florida 33130

September 24, 1992

NEWS RELEASE

Roberto Martinez, United States Attorney for the Southern District of Florida,
announced today that Ricardo Linares was convicted of illegally smuggling a quantity of
worked African elephant ivory from Nigeria, in violation of the African Elephant
Conservation Act, Title 16, U.S.C. § 4223(5); the Endangered Species Act, Title 16, U.S.C.
§ 1538(d)(1)(B); and the smuggling statute, Title 18, U.S.C. § 545. Judge William Hoeveler
specifically found that the defendant was "quite aware" that he could not bring ivoxyinto the
United States and that he tried to hide the ivory. Judge Hoeveler also found that the
defendant was going to engage in commerce with the ivory once he got it to Miami. This
case is believed to be the first conviction after a trial under the African Elephant
Conservation Act.

The importation of elephant ivory from any country was banned in June 1989 by a
moratorium established by the United States. (54 Federal Register 24758). The African
elephant has been listed as a threatened species since 1973 under the Endangered Species
Act of 1973, 16 U.S.C. § 1531-1543. Moreover, Congress found in the African Elephant
Conservation Act (16 U.S.C. § 4201, et. seq., signed into law on October 7, 1988):

”Elephant populations in Africa have declined at an alarming
rate since the mid-1970's. . .

The large illegal trade in African elephant ivory is the major
cause of this decline and threatens the continued existence of
the African e1ephant.”. 16 U.S.C. §4202(1) and (2).

According to the indictment and public documents, on November 6, 1990, the
defendant, Ricardo Linares, attempted to claim a shipment which he had imported into
Miami from Nigeria and which contained twenty pieces of carved elephant ivory worth
approximately $15,000 on the retail market.

Mr. Linares was found guilty on September 24, 1992 after a week-long non-jury trial
before Judge William Hoeveler. The defendant was acquitted on Count II of the indictment,
Wthh charged him with making a false statement to United States Customs officials. The

céefendelint faces a maximum penalty of five years in jail and up to $250,000.00 in fines on
ount .

Mr. Martinez commended the United States Customs Service and the United States
Fish and Wildlife Service for its work in this case.

 




‘DON T BUY lVORY

 

Saving Gambia
from civilized
destruction

By Bunny McBride

Special to The Christian Science Monitor

 

Banjul, Gambia .
VERY Tuesday evening, Eddie Brewer
shows nature ﬁlms to the elite Africans ,
and foreign guests dining on the terrace

at one of Banjul’s popular beach hotels.

Some nights he presents a grisly ﬁlm about .
ivory poachers; and as the ﬁlm ﬂashes its gore ?
onto the stucco wall bordering the swimming
pool, one by one the viewers drop their forks.
When it ends, they appear visibly relieved.

Seizing the intensity of the moment, Mr. 4
Brewer then plucks up a microphone and asks
dramatically, “Ladies and gentlemen, does it '
make sense to leave a baby elephant vainly
sucking on its dead mother Whose tusks have
been cut off just so someone can have an ivory
bangle? 'le0 million elephants have died in‘the
last 12 years, primarily from poaching. Don’t ‘ '
denigrate our own species by encouraging this. 1
Please don’t buy ivory.” ‘

Eddie Brewer practices What he preaches —-
not only avoiding ivory, but spending a good bit
of his life more actively protecting animals
from the ravages of civilized appetites. Since
his arrival here as a colonial forester 30 years

Please see GAMBIA back page

 

Wm) W W
is m7

 




 

 

 

 

GAMBIA from front page
., .

ago, Brewer has gained fame for
tracking down poachers,
spearheading the mapping of
protected’lands, helping to
launch a rehabilitation program
for abused chimpanzees, and
drafting legislation to protect
the country’s ﬂora and fauna.
One of Brewer’s most re-
nowned accomplishments is 10
miles south of the capital city of
Banjul. The Abuko Nature Re—
serve, conceived by Brewer in
1968, is the most visited site in '
Gambia -— even outdrawing the

- village of Juffure, made famous

by Alex Haley’s “Roots.”

Brewer extends his hand to
welcome a visitor to Abuko.
“Pardon me, I’ve a bit of banana
on my paw,” he quips. He’s just
ﬁnished feeding Julia, 3 six-
year—old lowland gorilla, which,
along with scores of other wild
animals, has taken up residence
at this animal orphanage.

The 253-acre reserve serves
as the nation’s wildlife educa-
tion center. At the southern end
of the reserve, overlooking a
pond inhabited by crocodiles,
stands a rustic two-story
wooden building that houses the
center, designed by Brewer.

In the exhibit rooms there are
posters, paintings, and displays
that raise issues of overpopula-
tion, pollution, overdevelop-
ment, and poaching. One large
painted panel depicts an African
woman carrying a bundle of ba-
bies on her back. Alongside this
image is a text by Brewer that
begins: “How much longer may
we logically subject our ailing
mother earth to mankind’s mul-
tiplying demands?”

Another sign by Brewer her-
alds the perils of rash develop—
ment: “The birth of a human
being in an industrialized coun-
try is 25 times as bad for his
environment as the birth of one
in an underdeveloped country. It
is civilized man who uses too
many raw materials, too much
energy, eats more than he needs,
pollutes the air, poisons the
water, and produces mountains

of waste.”
At the northern end of the
reserve is the “animal orphan-_

age.” Not to be confused with
the 200, the orphanage is for ani-
mals that for various reasons
cannot be released. Some were
brought here because they were
found injured, others because as
infants they lost their parents to
poachers in the wild. Some were
raised as exotic pets, then aban-
doned for one reason or another.
Whatever their histories, all
have lost their fear of humans as
well as their capacity to fend for
themselves in the wild. If re-
leased, they would be easy prey
for poachers or a danger to vil-
lagers and domestic animals.
Brewer is an ecologist to the

‘ core, and calls for a balanced

ﬁtting and protection of life’s
multifarious elements. He asks
questions such as “What is just
among living creatures.” rather
than “What’s good for human-
kind?” Not everyone sees eye to
eye with him. Gambia is an un-
derdeveloped sliver of a nation
(20 miles wide by 200 miles
long), with economic resources
as thin as its geographic dimen-
sions. Its 500,000 people, who
depend on the production of

cash crops such as peanuts, are

 

 

rewer cuddles Julia; his daughter, Stella Brewer Marsden s at right; man at left is unidentiﬂe

hungry for development, and do *
not easily let go of land for the
sake of environmental concerns.

Nonetheless, Brewer has
managed to press conservation
measures forward by carefully
cultivating a wide-based ecologi—
cal awareness in Gambia. He has
been aided by the fact that his
concerns echo those of Sir
Dawda J awara, a former veteri-
narian who has served as Gam-
bia’s president since it won inde-
pendence from British colonial
rule in 1965. Brewer was one of
a few Englishmen who contin-
ued working for the Gambian
government at that juncture.

It was Brewer who fathered
the landmark Banjul Declara-
tion, which Sir Dawda signed
into law in 1977 - committing
the country to setting aside nat-
ural habitats and prohibiting all

trade of wild animals and skins
in Gambia. Since that declara— _
tion, he has initiated the creation
of three national parks - River
Gambia, Kiangs West, and
Saloum Delta. The combined
acreage of these protected lands
is about 2 percent of Gambia’s
total landmass.

SBHHEIde

   

. 3:3:-

The public education fostered
by Brewer at the Abuko Nature
Reserve is less confrontational.
The reserve is arectangular
tract of land with a slender
stream running north-south
through its center. A lush
riverine forest ﬂanks the
waterway with cool tangled
shadows that gradually give
way to tree-studded savannas
on the eastern and western
edges of the reserve. Visitors,
primarily Gambians from all cor-
ners of the country, relish stroll-
ing along the winding pathways
here, weaving around the trunks
of some 50 tree and bush species
while 150 types of birds wheel

and flutter above. Not long ago,
an 80-year-old Gambian man
walked 1'? miles to visit Abuko.
Most of the animals — ante-
lopes, spotted hyenas, lions,
chimps, Julia the GoriJIa, etc. -—

live in large, luxuriously natural

enclosures, built to Eddie’s ’
speciﬁcations. Others, such as
Victor the vervet monkey, roam
about freely. Brewer, whose
modest home and oﬂ‘ice are a
stone’s throw from the reserve,
visits these creatures regularly.

  ’ Ea? .I'y ma

SOS

 
   
      
    
        
      
    
      
    
   
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
 
   
  
   
  
  
   
 
   
 
   
 
  
   
  
    
  
 
   
 

, \ ,‘erng and after
noon, an Ah 0 ranger opens t
chimpanzeﬁ‘ " closure and
takes them C“- ..or three hou *
of romplne 3'“? aging in 2 r5
cluded sectiens t , e rese if}-
The aim of tisese c is - ,1.“
domesticate the uh 18 to de-

 
 

 
  

  

pare them for relea. .dwgfe—
The forays are par; s. - A d.
garn~

bia Chimpanzee Re a 1. a. t
Project, started by c ..
his daughter. Stella Eire - ’1
Marsden, 17 years a -. "s"
ect is a kind of {flatware .
School for chins: wit... '2
dependent on m r ~ as. ~.~; ‘~ :
in captivity. With “‘1 .-
care, the OVEI‘CiVii’ZaBd .
are taught the sewer? 4, 'i .
ness survival. More the: 7}"
chimps have gragiiziati».j ' i ‘
Abuko and been sea: frc ::
of the uninhabited islan. '-.- z .
River Gambia Naszisoiial Ear
Children love earning to» ' .
Abuko, and ﬁeld trips here
regular feature in Gambia’.
ondary school curriculum. *
local children come again ‘
again, and dozens of :em :3
found hanging about the e ’
gate. This delights Brewer,
has always sought ways to
up their interest in. the rese
and all it stands for. Overt
years, he has often invited -’
to help feed the animals.
Sometimes, the Wildlife 0:
tor taps the children to add i. .
gusto to his conservation pp
Two years ago, when Britai
Prince Philip'visited Abuk
do almost all dignitaries w -
come to Gambia), Brewer ca ‘
on the local kids to entertain
him.'They sang a song (by _
Brewer, naturally). The little
ditty goes like this: ’ ~-

in

Gambw.’ , Gambia
Help save all. the an'
Gambia
We’ve antelopes,
rare mnatees

' ever Brewer may lack ‘ .
W ‘cist, he makesup foras a

 

 




 

WWF

mm

20 November 2003
Press Release

Illegal Driftnets Continue to Kill Thousands
f Dolphins the Mediterranean -- WWF

  
  

 

olphin washed ashore in Cala Iris,
60km west of AI Hoceima, Morocco.

Grand, Switzerland - WWF today warned that illegal driftnets are still killing thousands of dolphins — and other vulnerable
species — every year in the Mediterranean, despite the European Union‘s ban on driftnet ﬁshing from 1 January 2002 and a
UN moratorium on large-scale driftnets from 1992.

A new WWF report, Biodiversity impact of the Moroccan driftnet fleet in the Alboran Sea , reveals that, with 177 boats, the
Moroccan driftnet ﬂeet is the most lethal for Mediterranean marine biodiversity. Dolphins are its prime by-catch victims.

Between 3, 000 and 4,000 striped and short—beaked common dolphins — a species that was recently included on the IUCN
Red List of Threatened Species — are estimated to be caught every year in the Alboran Sea. southwestern Mediterranean,
alone. This is more than 10 per cent of the area's dolphin population. According to WWF, a further 13,000 individuals are
estimated to be caught around the Straits of Gibraltar and in neighbouring zones. The conservation organization stresses that
Italian, French, Turkish, and most probably other ﬁshing fleets are using driftnets in breach of existing legislation. ‘

The Italian driftnet ﬂeet —- with about 700 boats in the early 19903 — received subsidies from the EU for restructuring the ﬂeet,
but there are still up to 100 non-compliant boats. France (75 non-compliant boats), and Turkey (100 non-compliant boats) also
have a sizeable driftnet ﬂeet.

"The evidence we have gathered on the Moroccan ﬂeet brings us to think that illegal driftnet ﬁshing currently happening In the
whole Mediterranean results in a massive slaughter of vulnerable species," said Paolo Guglielmi, Head of Marine Unit at
WWF's Mediterranean Programme. "More than 4,000 kilometres of illegal nets from the Moroccan, French, Turkish, and
Italian driftnet ﬂeets are ensnaring all that gets in their way."

Driftnets run for kilometres. Each net could be anywhere between 7 and 14 kilometres long. According to the WWF report,
about 23,000 sharks are also captured annually by the Moroccan driftnet ﬂeet in the Alboran Sea, and another 77,500 are
caught in neighbouring areas. It has been calculated that one shark is caught for two swordﬁsh, the main catch of the
Moroccan ﬂeet. Loggerhead turtles are also affected by the country's driftnet ﬁsheries.

WWF urges the EU to monitor and prosecute all the ﬂeets of its member states using driftnets. WWF also calls on the
General Fisheries Commission for the Mediterranean, and non-EU countries, particularly those in North Africa, to introduce
urgent legislation banning these nets. This call comes ahead of the Diplomatic Conference on Mediterranean Fisheries, to be
held in Venice on 25 November.

"The only valid way to prevent the massacre of dolphins, sharks, and other marine species caused by these driﬂnet ﬂeets in
the Mediterranean is to make it a driftnet-free sea by enforcing a total ban on all the driftnet ﬁsheries in the region," said Dr
Simon Cripps, Director of WWF's Endangered Seas Programme. "The EU must urgently help all Mediterranean countries put
in place plans to convert their driftnet ﬂeets."

For further information:

Chantal Menard

Communications Department, WWF Mediterranean Programme
Tel: +39 06 844 97 417

FOO/1700?] MW 831’] AHLVO ‘— HOLINOW 9L99 I793 303 XVd 88310 SO/ZZ/TI

 




ZOO/TOO-

LOS ANGELES TIMES ,

NOVEMBER 21,- 20 03

 

 

that the grazing limits '

-' that the logging of"

 

The p1 oposal’s stepped-up
logging is not scientifically.
justified, scientists co’ntend.

‘ The Forest Service pushes a .
decision back Until January/.'I '

- By BETTINA BonanL

ITimcs Sign? IWi'iler

Wide-ranging criticism of a proposal to

 

 

roll back wildlife and forest protections in .I

the Sierra Nevada has caused the U. S.

Forest Service to delay adaption of the. .

changes, which would alter an environ-

mental Imanagement plan for the state's ,-

most prominent mountain range.

A number of experts, including Forest '

Service scientists have faulted the pro-

' posal 011- a variety of counts saying that

the agency has failed to provide a sound
scientiﬁc justiﬁcation Ito weaken the pro-
tectlons.

In response, the Forest service has

‘postponed a ﬁnal decision on the revi-
sions — originally due this fall — until '

January

“We' re listening to everything people.

are telling us. and one of’ them is we need

to do a better job of dOcumenting th‘e-ra- ..
said I, Matt,
Mathes, the Forest Service’s spokesman -"

.tionale for the‘ 1180181011."

in California; "All this is information Re-

gional Forester J ack- Blacks/ell actively.

ask'ed for ‘and wa11t's.He doesn't really

 

consider any of this good news or bad .
news. It's just information he needs to '

make a decision. "
In detailed and sometimes sharp com-
ments- submitted 'to the Forest Service in

that Blackwell's call for stepped-up log~

. recent months, several'scientists Warned ':

ging could harm declining valdiife spe- ‘
cies. possibly pushing them onto the en— .'
dangered species list They disputed.
Forest Service claims that the proposed?

1 ollbacks were justified .by "new- lnforma— '

tion" on Sierra ecosystemsand wildlife.

And they raised questions about the _‘

man s fire-reduction strategy; '

The Forest Service proposal would re- .

write a Clinton: era blueprint to manage
11'/2-milli'on. ac1es 01' national forestland
in the Sierra.

Adopted after years of study and can-I

t-r oversy, the Clinton regulations were in-
tended to stem the decline of wildlife and

old- growth ecosystems in the .425-mile—

long range by curtailing logging, restric-
ting grazing and emphasizing the use of
controlled burns to 1edIuce the wildfire
hazard.

Soon after taking office, Bush admin-

istration officials launched a review of the ',
regulations, Saylng that they were too re- -'

strictive and too cautious in tackling the-

the Siei' ra’ s 11 national
forests as well as the
elimination of some . '
grazing restrictions.

The agency said

1

hurt ranchers, argued

more and larger trees-'-.

would ‘ speed forest I.‘ > ' .. ‘
" thinning necessary. to“
. reduce the wildfire threat and cited new

data on Wildlife populations.

But after leviewing the proposal. -fed- :-

. wildﬁre threat: In. June the Forest Service-
released a draft environmental document - '.
proposing more aggressive logging to thin .

's

eral scientists and academics challenged.

the. assertion of new research ﬁndings

“Largely I don' t think there is enough}
- new information to say we know things“

we did not know three years ago, ” James
Quinn, director ’of the Infermation Center
for the Envii onment at UC IDa'vis, said. “I

d-on '-t think it changes the underlying view '

that a number. of species driving these de-
cislons are known to react badly to graz~

I --ing or clearing the forest canbpy.”

Quinn was one of nearhl a‘ dozen ex— .
parts who evaluated the plan at the For- -
‘est Service’s. request. Their initial Sep- .

tember report was obtained by The
Times; .
They concluded that the Forest Sew;

lee proposal was difﬁcult to read, failed to, ' '
7 . take into account the pos‘siIIbleI impact of

climate change on the Sierra and was

vague about how fuel reduction projects I.
would be completed and maintained.

 

I/lnoclnlcd Pram:

AT L O G GE RHEAD S: Infile photo, a logger. wor.ks in, the Stanislaus ’National
‘ Forest 0116 of 11 Sierra forests qﬂ'cctcd by a protection proposal that is unde7 fl? '3. '

’ .“One of the myths of fuels treatments

.15; that all you have to do 18 thin the trees, "
. commented U. S Geological Survey re-
search scientist Jan van Wagtendonk'.
- “Taken to its ridiculduIs extreme, one can
prevent forest ﬁres by' cutting dOWnI all
the forests. ". _ '
. Thinning can help stop: wildﬁres from
leaping from treetop to treetop. he said;

But it is equally if not more important to .
reduce brush and other ﬂammable ma-'_.I

terial on the forest, floor, he said. “These
aspects of fuel reduction are not given ad-
equate treatmen " in the Forest Service
proposal, he said

The researcher also questioned the'

Forest Service? s contention that smoke

' and weather concerns would make it im-

.- possible to do all the prescribed burning
called for in- the Clinton Sierra manage-
ment plan

Taken to its rldlculous extreme, one can prevent forest
f res by cutting down all. the forests

" Jan van Wagfendohk,

U. S. GeologicalSIIurvey research scientist-

“This attitude ignores the fact 11181111112
National Park' Service is able to find ad—
equate windows for burning thousands of

acres adiacent to many oIi’thése same for— -'

- ests. ”.

approval from another review team meme
. ber. UC Berkeley forest science profeSsor

emeritus William McKlllop, who said he

thought that it was appropriate ecologl-I
pally and financially. ' ‘

A September review by the Washing"
ton, 13.0. staff of the- Forest Service‘s

Watershed Fish Wildlife, A11- and Rare
Plants ‘0fﬁce said the Sierra proposal
would heighten risks for wildlife. , . .

' “One can only conclude that stand-
,aids in [the proposal] are a prescription
- for continued owl population- declines,”

the wildlife office report states.

describe new information it cited on vari-
‘ous Sierra cabsystemsv = “Sbme informal
tion on riparian and aquatic species is

'- let’s start getting them. ”
' Barrett, “a UC- Berkeley wildlife p1 ofesspr,

The proposals fire strategy did win-

. new to the extent that [it] clearly afﬁr ms
‘I‘the continued decline of these species
' identiﬁed

I[in the original Sierra
plan]. Changing the management strat-

f.7-e'gy for .these systems in a manner which
. increases the risk does not represent new

information-but rather a policy decision
to accept great risk in the decision."
.The Forest Service denied a Time's'

. Freedom of Informatidn request for cop—

ies of Washington office reviews of the

proposed revisions but the wildlife staff
report. has been posted on 1111 environ

mental group 3 Web site. .
=In critiques submitted to the Forest
Service. other scientists concluded that

'weakening logging restrictions could

pese serious problems for rare wildlife

‘ that favor dense stands of older tree's. '

Existing Sierra guidelines bar the log I
glng of trees larger than 20 inches 111- (11- ‘
ametcr Ithmughout
r-much of. the fore: Iit.
Blackwell wants to
raise that limit to 30
inches, saying that log-
glng bigger trees wou d
make it easier to thin
I dense stands and b1 111g
'in timber revenue to
help pay 1‘01 fuelI— reduc~
tion Work.
I “i would like to maintain a canopy "of
big trees and if we dc‘m't have them yet
Reginald

I

Said. “Ifyou just thin o'ut eVerythinIg, it will
he basically a clear cut“ So you’ re basi-

. cally "allowing them to do whatevei they

want. "

. In an August letter to Blackwell. Jared
Verner, a retired Forest Service owl ex-
pert said that in arguing for more aggres-

. sivé logging, the Forest Service had. over-

stated the threat of 111 e to the California
spotted owl. “It seams to me that concern
for the extent ofwildﬁre damage in the Si-
~e1‘ra- Nevada is egaggerated, " he wrote.

Though concurring that steps need to be

taken to reduce Wildfires, he Challenged
the notion that fire is destroying old-

.- growth stands, favored by owls,- faster
The wildlife staff added that the. ICali- '
forni'a regional ofﬁce failed“ to adequately '

than they are being regenérated.‘

' '~ "They want to make these changes.
but they don’ t really tell us why they wa’nt
to do this" said Vance Vredenbhrg, a UC

Berkeley researcher.

 

MW 3311 AHLVC) <-

HOLINOW

 

91.99 1793 Z02 XVd 178310

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




Atuna.com
18 NoVem be r 2003

Mexico: NMFS Supports Change Dolphin Safe Definition

Mexico --The Mexican‘Commlssioner of Aquaculture and Fishery, Ramon Corral Avila, recently informed that
the Navy Marine Fishery Services (NMFS) of the United States supports Mexican request to change the

jurisdiction of the tuna embargo litigation.

Corral Avila, during an official visit to Washington, told Mexican press sources that the Vice—Administrator to
Bill Hogarth’s informed them that they will appeal before the Justice Department to change court location for

the current dolphin safe court case, from San Francisco to New York.

The Mexican “dolphin—safe” tuna embargo commenced in 1990 and although it was lifted during the George
W. Bush administration, it is in fact still blocking the entrance of Mexican tuna into the USA market.

The legal proceedings on the Mexican tuna are handled before judge Thelton Henderson in the US Court 9th
District of San Francisco. The “Dolphin Safe” label guarantees that no dolphins have been killed during the

fishing of the tuna, a factor that is taken into account by the US. consumers. But Henderson has ruled in
favor of the plaintiffs, Earth Island Instituted (EII) in all the previous cases, reason why Mexican .delegates

consider that the hearings would be more balanced before the International Trade Court in New York.

The US. Justice Department will decide shortly whether it supports this change of jurisdiction, as well as the
request from representatives of the private tuna sector of several countries to take part in the litigation.
Although the US State Department supports the change of jurisdiction, it is not yet clear what the Justice

Department’s position is.

The topic was discussed during a recent visit to Washlngton of the Mexican secretary of Foreign Relations,
Luis Ernesto Derbez, with the solicitor John Ashcroft. The head of Conapesca, organization of the Secretary
of Agriculture, announced that the topic “the tuna sector” was scheduled for a meeting, which will take
place between Ashcroft and Rafael Macedo de la Concha. The subject was also discussed during the 20th
Meeting of the Binational Commission Mexico- United States. The tuna embargo matter is also expected to be
discussed during a forthcoming meeting between Corral Avila and the NMFS, which will take place next March

2004 in Mazatlan or Los Cabos.

Atuna.com
19 Novembe r 2003

30,000 M/T of Yellowfin Stuck in Mexico

Mexico -- According to the president of the Mexican National Chamber of Fishing Industry, Carlos Hussong,
Mexico is suffering from an oversupply of yellowfin tuna caused by a global blockade of Mexican tuna.

He insisted that the embargoes de facto of Mexican tuna in the United States and Europe have left the tuna
purse seiners stuck with more than 30 thousand M/T of oversupply of whole round frozen yellowfin tuna.
“The effect of the embargo is that we have 30 thousand tons in the Mexican ports that cannot be sold.

Boats are stuck in port carrying tuna that they cannot unload”, Hussong said.

Although the “ Dolphin Safe” tuna embargo was lifted in the United States, the ecological group Earth Island
(EII) maintains its demand in the US. Court of Appeals in San Francisco, which prevents Mexican tuna trade
to the United States with the new AIDCP dolphin safe logo. Currently cold storages in the western Mexican

tuna ports of Mazatlan and Manzanillo are completely full and export markets are totally closed.

FOO/800.1MV SSIT AHLVO ‘— HOLINON 91.99 1793 203' XVII €93T0 SO/ZZ/II

 




Atu na .com
21 November 2003

Dolphin Again Used to Block Trade Agreement

United States -- Yesterday, November 20th, hundreds of demonstrators from across the United States
marched in dolphin costumes with thousands of allies in opposition to the ongoing Free Trade Area of the
Americas (FTAA) Eighth Ministerial Meeting and 16th Trade Negotiations Committee in Miami, Florida, USA.
What started as a peaceful march against the wodd's largest proposed free trade area was punctuated
yesterday by violent clashes as thousands of police in riot gear used tear gas, pepper spray and rubber
bullets to subdue hundreds of protesters.

At least 60 people were arrested during the mayhem, mostly self-proclaimed anarchists here to protest the
Free Trade Area of the Americas. Forty protesters and two police officers were injured.

The vast majority of the protesters, however, were peaceful.

The protestors expressed grave concerns that if a free trade area stretches from Canada to Chile, U.S. jobs
will be lost to third-world countries where labor is cheap and environmental regulations few

“FTAA negotiations must embrace, instead of eviscerate, protection of wildlife, their ecosystems, and the
humane treatment of animals,” said Ben White, special projects coordinator of the Animal Welfare Institute
(AWI). “No treaty organization should have the power to erase animal welfare laws enacted by

democratically-elected governments.”

FTAA would extend the “free trade” area created by the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA)
throughout 34 countries in North, South, and Central America. These international trade agreements trump
not only national and state law, but the US Constitution as well, putting in jeopardy decades of legislative

protections for animals, workers, and the environment.

According to the Animal Welfare Institute, “American citizens, appalled by the killing of more than seven
million dolphins in tuna nets, demanded dolphin protection and dolphin-deadly tuna was banned from the
United States' market. However, U.S. law forbidding the import of tuna caught by ensnaring and killing

dolphins in tuna nets has twice been ruled an illegal trade restriction. As a result, the U.S. weakened its

dolphin protection law in 1997”.

Recent studies conducted by the NMFS reported that currently approximately 2000 dolphins are killed
annually in tuna fishing in the Eastern Pacific Ocean. “Even before its official launch, FTAA's deleterious .
promotion of free trade rather than fair trade is uniting civil society and the caring people of the Earth”, said

Ben White.

The Animal Welfare Institute, a non-profit animal protection organization founded in 1951, advocates
inclusion of animal welfare and endangered species protection in all trade negotiations.

POO/100- IMV SSI’I AHLLVC) <— HOLINOW 91.99 I793 202 XVd ZSITO SO/ZZ/II

 




. Discover

 

Whatsthepurpose
‘ ‘ 91" n aim-rats EmQStf
powerfulsound’7

'91.,
“'95

‘r-rs 1.:

Y

'~.:I.B:'AV.E, ASIDE, FOR-A"MCMEN’I‘,-THE QUIiS‘J'lON or WHY'I‘ED CRANmRD WAN'i'i-zru
. .tOperzfornija CT-scdfann the head of a sperm whale and consider in—
... ' S'lt'eﬁ'd: hOW-lhe-‘Qoqld‘pUH-fitOff. First, of course, he would need a dead
(Whale, p'rVe'fel'éi-bl-y‘a';YOr111g,orie‘that had,'beached itself on the coast of
'i- ' Iingl’ifom-i'a hear his-"home:Then-he:Wouldneeda device bi g. enough to

‘ 'i seem: GQinognﬁlhead-i Andih‘e would have to ﬁgure. out how to keep
. ithe head preeer'ved'untilshe'could set up the scanning machinery. ‘ff Find -
j ‘« ing a Whidl'e'sturned out .to be the easy part. One fall day, a newly dead

‘ infant-spermWhaleaconveniehtly~21ppeared on San Gregorio Beach, just

' ' ,S'outh'Df San Francisto‘gCnahford was attending a scientiﬁc meeting in
2" :ilBi‘isrol, England,-at..the*tiﬁ1e,‘ but two friends who aremarine—1112111111121l
'_ -veterin'a'rian’s"iknew whathewas 10’0‘king for. They drove up Highway ]
_"-.;’;'..fro_m3.S'zr-ntaxcrué,’ ~301mil'es to th'e'.south,.-cut.through several feet of

DISCOVER DECEMBER 2003 .51

ROO/IOO- IMV SSH AHLVQ e HOLLINOW 91.99 I782: 302 XVd 83:10 SO/ZZ/II

 




:QTX v}!

A; .,
,' ‘ M
,tﬂsititigsr'

i
233
«r

. , 9 <5 39“}
‘ u, \ .u'Ih' . .0

W030?-
w.

‘9‘,» .'
\"t- v \‘

“‘Mv‘v ‘9, :

\
133,,

ﬁg; ice.
.33.?
7‘ s

I 2'. \J
\ .9 HA” .fo

. t 1 ~ \ .‘.
‘, 5 ; l ,4\‘\‘JI,P’s““.‘ I, I'<‘\'\\

-‘.._., 3‘
4
i

\

,... if A spéfm Whale dives near the Azoresiih the; ,0
. '- i: North Atlantic. Researchers now believe that‘
r'»'-the Whales usesomc blasts to stun thgir prey; -.

800/500 IAW SSI’I AHLVC) <~ HOLINON

6?

523%

.. 3 "14W"

k
. g t “H .
\ . .\ .
- ‘ A . ' 35* H‘“.
' . . . IL 0% ,L 1.0} .
. . , , ' I
"1' _, -r'- '. . ’a "- ‘4; gig
1:?“ '

S L '11.}, \7.
”PS"; \' 4'35.-

.
‘ I

.9“ u ". x '
A .

. 1““
23‘. ._ @533?
‘.,.._\):\\$-:.\L$\t ' .
« “NJCSKVQ‘R‘M‘

"u; ‘ :

'li

. K - . . '
‘- «diﬁifﬁirm‘i‘l
9'3, @5319”; .

 

9L99 I792 202 XVd 62110 80/33/11

 




 

900/800.

J_- Ann-A.n.o . A
W'I'I’I‘ r"- "" " I I I
_'

blubber, muscle, and bone, and scooped up the head with a
front—end loader borrowed from a nearby lumber company.
Cranford’s friends dumped the head into the back of a pickup
truck and drove it to the University of California at Santa Cruz’s
Long Marine Laboratory, where they stashed it in a walk-in
freezer. Then they sent him an urgent message to‘come home.

When Cranford began looking for funding to scan his whale
head, several scientific agencies politely but firmly turned
him down. The data would undoubtedly be of interest, they
said, but the head of a sperm whale—even a baby sperm
whale—simply could not be scanned.

Cranford, however, is a man not easily parted from his ideas.
He is also handsome, with a thatch of unruly reddish brown
hair and a carefully trimmed graying beard. He has small,
even teeth behind ﬂeshy lips, one blue and one hazel eye, and
a penchant for wearing sneakers, shorts,.and vibrantly col-
ored Hawaiian shirts, even at scientiﬁc meetings. Now a 47-
year—old adjunct professor of biology at San Diego State
University, he is known as Grizz, short for grizzly bear, to
friends and close associates from his undergraduate and grad-
uate student days in Santa Cruz. The nickname describes not
so much his demeanor as his ursine size and his habit of greet—
ing friends with bear hugs.

in graduate school Cranford first used high-tech medical
imaging to probe the anatomy of a mammal—in that case a

cSome clicks are loud enough to
temporarlly deafen a person

dolphin’s head. Since then he has made it his mission to ﬁnd
out how toothed whales and dolphins make their sounds. It
is a nontrivial question, as scientists like to say, meaning the
answer is both signiﬁcant and hard to get. Toothed whales, a
group that comprises sperm Whales and killer whales along
with another six dozen species of lesser whales, porpoises, and
dolphins, can emit a bewildering cacophony of noises under-
water. Drop a hydrophone over the side of a boat in the mid—
dle of a school and you will hear, depending upon the species,
anything from birdlike trills to whistles, squeaks, squawks,
oinks, blats, and Bronx cheers.

The sounds Cranford is most interested in, and has spent
the last two decades trying to understand, are the rapid-ﬁre
clicks toothed whales use for echolocation. A single click
comes as an instantaneous burst of energy that usually lasts
less than l/IOJJOD of a second yet contains an astonishing range
of frequencies, or pitches, most of which are too high for hu-
mans to hear. These intense packets of sound emerge from
the animal’s forehead as a focused beam, much like the light
from a miner’s headlamp. Many dolphins and Whales seem
to be able to narrow or widen the beam at will by deforming
a lump of fat in their forehead, known as the melon, the Way
a glass lens can shape a cone of light. The animals are able to

shift the loudness of a single click in order to penetrate far— .

52 DISCOVER DECEMBER 2003

IMV SSI'I AHLVI) <—

 

I'

HOLINOW

If]. I

ther into the water in front of them. Some clicks are loud
enough to temporarily deafen a person.

Sperm whales make the loudest sounds of all. One of their
clicks, if heard in the open air, would be much louder than the
Sound of a jumbo jet taking off. “It’s the biggest and loudest
damn biosonar source in the world,” Cranford says. Just imag—
ine a crack that lasts Mama of a second but can be picked up by
hydrophones—and heard by other sperm whaleshat a dis-
tance of 15 miles or more.

How a ﬂesh—and-blood animal can produce such a violent
blast remains a mystery. Actually, almost everything about
sperm whale anatomy is mysterious, because it is difﬁcult to
map body parts that are far bigger than the anatomist doing
the mapping. The head of a big male sperm whale can be 25
feet long and take up a third of the animal’s length. Much of
a sperm whale’s head is occupied by the spermaceti organ, a
huge ﬁbrous cask containing a milky, waxy material that was
highly prized as a lubricant and lamp oil, and which to Nan~
tucket Whalers looked like nothing more than gallons and
gallons of semen—hence the name. “I’ve never been able to
ﬁgure out how they rationalized females having spermaceti
too,” Cranford says.

To modern biologists, a structure as big and as odd as the
spermaceti organ cries out for an evolutionary explanation,
and marine mammalogists have argued for years over its func—
tion. Cranford subscribes to what ma—
rine mammalogists call the big bang
theory, which argues, among other
things, that a sperm whale’s head is a
gigantic noisemaker. The spermaceti

thought, helps amplify and focus the
whale’s sonic emissions, which it uses to stun fast-swimming
squid and ﬁsh long enough to gobble them up. The big bang
theory has been difﬁcult to demonstrate because no one knew
the precise arrangement of parts inside a whale’s head. “When
you cut into the animal you destroy the geometry, and it’s the
geometry, the shape of tissues, and their consistency that are
responsible for the sound beam,” Cranford says. He thought
if he could find a way to scan a whale’s head, he could pin
down the geometric relationships between its parts and deci-
pher the purpose of the spermaceti organ.

FIRST, THOUGH, THERE was THE SMALL MATTER or FUN DING. CRANFORD‘S
adjunct professorship at San Diego State is unpaid unless he
teaches or gets a grant through the university, and marine-
mammal biology is not exactly a big priority for the National
Science Foundation. Some years, Cranford has had to pay for
his research out of his own pocket—«or rather that of his wife,
who is an invertebrate zoologist for the San Diego water de-
partment. The rest of the time, nearly all of his funding has
come from the Ofﬁce of Naval Research (ONR).

The Navy has very practical reasons for being interested in
d01phin sounds. A blindfolded dolphin can detect an object
three inches in diameter from a distance of 123 yards. That’s
roughly equivalent to standing at one end of a football field

91.99 1793 202 XVd 093T0

 

organ, according to this school of -

GRAPHY. TOP. COURTESY

Al. OF THE ACOUSTIC/1L SOCIETY OF AMERICA.

GRAPH ON PREVIOUS PAGES BY D

PRINTED WITH PERMISSION

OF BERTEL MEHL.

OUG PERRINE/JEFF ROTMAN PHOTO

FROM THE JOURN

PHOT

SO/ZZ/TT

 




 

and spotting a tangerine in the Opposite end zone. More to
the point for the Navy, a dolphin is a lot better at such tasks
than the sonar dome on a submarine. Trained dolphins can
pinpoint underwater mines from a distance of several hun-
dred feet with almost 100 percent accuracy. Even the best sub-
marine sonar domes, backed by a roomful of sophisticated
computers that analyze the returning echoes, routinely miss
mines. That’s not good enough, Cranford says: “It only takes
one inexpensive little mine to blow a hole in a great big ex—
pensive ship full of sailors.”

Five years ago, the federal government gave a group of en-
gineers several million dollars to begin developing an elec-
tronic dolphin—~21 self-propelled, mine-detecting underWater
drone as perceptive as a cetacean. Such a device could be de—
ployed from a ship to scan for mines even in shallow waters.

 

. .lhA-n ‘A- n .5.‘ . ‘ -1 A
y 1 u . F u v

If the drone found any, the ship could hightail it to safer wa—
ters without worrying about having to come back and pi cl<
up its drone. “We want to have something in a box that car.
do what the dolphins can do,” Bob Gisiner, the marine—mammal
science program manager at ONR, told me. “' ‘hey can ﬁnd
objects buried under the mud. We don’t have any sonar that
can do that anywhere near as well.”

It turned out to be a hellishly difﬁcult problem. Most of the
Navy’s efforts were focused on signal processing, or detecting
the echoes that come back from distant objects and com put~
ing where and what the objects are. “Everybody thought sig—
nal processing was sexy,” Gisiner said. Cranford’s research, by
contrast, seemed to the engineers like a mere mechanical prob—
lem and not worth spending a lot of money on.

The engineers tried using piezoceramic elements, each of

 

 

Above: A sperm whales lcliok, recorded off‘the-:coaSt"ot- Norway, is‘" made on of-a series otdiminishingpulses that together last between 10 and 30 milliseconds.

Below: A colorize‘d CT scan shows how such clicks, produced by the'whalé's muscular ifll'ps" (in blue, near theifront), travel through the head and are amplified. The
large Spermaeeti organ ( in yellow.- near the tap), both'magnifte's and focuses the sounds, "which bounce off the‘back ol the'skull (in white). then down and out the front

of the head. Along the way. the whale's clicks. pass through the "junk'T—letis-shaped pockets of fat (yellow stripes)’:that focus the sound down to an intense beam.

 

PHOTOGRAPH. BY REUBEN cox

 

DISCOVER DECEMBER 2003 53

800/1700. IMV SSIT AHtLVC) HOLINOW 91.99 {793 202 XVd OSIIO SO/ZZ/II

 




A-- -‘A I 4““-

 

which emits only a single frequency or a very narrow band
of frequencies. But a dolphin’s broadband click required a
huge array of elements, and the prototypes failed to produce
sounds of the right length, frequency, and duration. “In the
end, they couldn’t make dolphin noises,” Gisiner said. “They
lust could not do it."

liven so, (iisiner has had to ﬁght to keep Cranibrd’s fund-
ing going. Cranford says, “The only reason I’ve been able to
stick with it is I ’m really excited about the nuggets of discov—
cry-~that moment of finding something that nobody has
found before. it’s like being a modern—day explorer. You’ve got
to be a little abnormal to be willing to do absolutely anything
to answer a question. Only 1 percent of the world’s popula—
tion has a PhD. You are at the tip of the tail of a bell-shaped
curve if you are willing to devote yourself to getting a l?h.D.
in what amounts to a backwater of science.”

t;t-1;\Nl-‘t)ltt) nan NUYIEARNIMiS To in: A sciiaN'rtsr as A CHILI). l-Ilr'. GREW
up in a suburb of Los Angeles, the grandson of a dairy farmer
who emigrated from Switzerland in 1919. He wears his grand-
father‘s gold ring. Cranford’s father was an elevator con-
st ructor. “He had to figure out how to maneuver an elevator
into a little hole in the skeleton ofa building," Crantord says.
“l’ve always wondered if .l got: my interest in understanding
how things work from my da d. He was a mechanical engi~
neer without the training.”

When Crantord enrolled in Long Beach Community Col—
lege after ﬁnishing high school, no one in his family had ever
gone past 12th grade. One day his zoology instructor told .her

 

 

 

 

 

l-S-asso Pro-fundo

1- A '
ant-I-r r-v- ‘ . ‘i’ I
. .
i

students to propose a research project. “i wrote down, ‘l want
to do my project on something bigger than a bread box,m
Cranford recalls. “I thought she was going to chew my butt.
Instead she said, ‘Go to the Cabrillo Museum.’ ”

The museum ran a whale—watching boat that plied the wa~
ters between Long Beach and the Channel Islands, searching
for gray whales on their way from their feeding grounds in
the Arctic to their calving shoals in Baja California Su r in Mex—
ico. Cranford was hooked. After volunteering for the next six
winters to lead whale—watching tours, he drove his Volkswa—
gen bus up the coast and at the age of24- enrolled as a junior
at the University of California at Santa Cruz. There, the emi~
nent marine mammalogist Kenneth Norris took him on as a
graduate student. Norris set Cranford the task of figuring out
how and exactly Where dolphins make their sounds.

A few years before, Norris and another student had shown
that dolphins make their sounds somewhere in their nasal pas—
sages, not in the larynx, as many marine mammalogists had
assumed. Norris wanted (Stanford to create a three—dimensional
map of a dolphin’s head. He found Cranford a specimen and
sent him off to do the rest. C ‘anford decided to cut thin slices
of the frozen head with a diamond~studded wire saw, ma p the
structures on each slice, and then use a computer to construct
a three—dimensional image from the slices.

“The saw was a total failure,” Cran ford said. t--[ e spent days
dressed in foul—weather gear in a walk-in freezer at Sea World
in San Diego. He tried to cut through the head, but the. blub—
her and fat never froze completely, and the diamonds were re—
peatedly stripped from the expensive wires. To add to (.Zi'aniord’s
misery, the freezer was already occupied by a giant skua, a
swan-size bird recently captured in the Antarctic. The ocean—

 

A stereoscopic image of a sperm whale's'head reveals the inner workings .
that create its deafening sounds. To see a three-dimensional image, hbldthis '

 

 

 

third image that will appearin the middle. The blue areas near the front are
the “lips.” Air surrounding the skull (in white and lighter blue) reflects and

page abouta foot from your nose and slowly'eross your eyes, iocusing onthe- _

amplifies the lips’ soundsiike an acoustic shell behind a stage.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

54 )lSCOVER DECEMBER 2003

900/900-1AW SSI'I AHLVO <— HOLLINOW 1793' 203 XVel 19310 80/32/11

 




ari um was holding the skua in isolation before introducing it
to other animals in an exhibit. While Cranford wrestled with
the saw, the bird attacked and vomited on him.

“lt wasn’t that funny at the time,” he says. But in the end
the saw didn’t matter. Before attempting to slice the dolphin
head, Cranford had sweet-talked a radiologist at the Univer-
sity of California at San Francisco into letting him run it
through the hospital’s CT scanner. “The idea was thatI would
scan the head first and then use the slices to interpret the
scan,” he says. As it turned out, he didn’t need the slices, be—
cause the CT scans revealed two football—shaped lobes of fat
con rained within two sets of “lips”——tiny structures located
in the nasal passage just below the blowhole. Cranford had
found the dolphin’s sound sources.

'i'l’.l\' YEARSl.A'l‘i-1l{,'\-Vlll€N CRANmim CAME IN'I‘CI POSSESSION OF A
sperm whale’s head, he knew scanning it would require more
elaborate measures. First, he found a CT scanner big enough
at the Navy’s China Lake facility, a weapons testing and de—
velopment station 200 miles northeast of Los Angeles. “It’s
kind of a time warp that I was going‘to scan a whale there,”
Cranford says. “The Navy’s marine-mammal program be-
gan at China Lake, and now I come full circle 40 years later.”
The scanner, one of only two in the world at the time, was
designed to probe solid-fuel rocket motors for cracks, holes,
and other flaws.

Next Cranford had to find a way to keep the GOO—pound
head cold for the several days it would take to scan. He also
had to hold the head steady, using materials that would not
interfere with the X rays, were light enough to maneuver with
muscle power and a forklift, and wouldn’t cost him and his
wife their life’s savings.

' His solution was propping the head inside a ﬁve-foot length
of cardboard tube—the kind ordinarily used to cast concrete
pillars for freeway overpasses. Cranford filled the space be-
tween the head and the tube with polyurethane foam. Within
an hour it had hardened to a lightweight sarcophagus that
both held the head in place and insulated it. Then Cranford
loaded the whole contraption into a rented truck and drove
all night from Santa Cruz, to the desert.

An hour out of China Lake, huge raindrops pelted Cran~
lord’s windshield, and the sky was split by lightning. “The
storm zapped the computers that control the CT scanner, for
only the second time in seven years,” he says. Cranford had to
temporarily stash the head in the Navy's freezer, which went
down to —70 degrees Fahrenheit, cold enough to freeze even
the fat and blubber. “By the time we were ready to scan, the
head was solid,” he says. The giant CT scanner whirred and
clicked eight hours a day for four days, building a picture of
the inside of the little whale’s head, slice by slice. When Cran—
ford put it all together, he had a three—dimensional image of
one of the weirdest noses in the animal kingdom.

(7N A LA'l'li Ali'l'liRNOON lN ()(I'l'DliliR, CIR/\NFDRD SLIPPED A CD INTO

one of the three computers at his house in Serra Mesa, a sub-
urb ofSan Diego. A colorized image appeared on—screen and

PHOTOGRAPHS BY REUBEN COX

 

.1.’ ”v‘lvr
" 9'! ling? ""
”ti xiii
u'

'1?

 

' Above: A prototype of Ted Cranford’s noisemaker. which the Navy had'hoped
tjduse 'tOjdetebtzmines through echolocation.-Modeled on dolphin physiology.
, the clerical/saw hyajrcompressor-that forces air through surgical tubing and
'"sprin'ggrrjithjbér;parts.The latter replicate the twoseis of muscular lipsin a
TitliilpﬂlE's-nasal;ﬁésshg’ési‘g-Thetesuiting sound? Something iike a‘Bronx cheer.

A:

 

 

 

slowly began to rotate. From the outside, a sperm whale head
looks like a piece of gray clay that has been rolled into a short,
fat sausage and then pinched to a slim ridge along its length
on the bottom side. The animal’s lower jaw, which hangs un-
der the ridge like an evolutionary afterthought, is even nar—
rower—a ﬂimsy structure only about three feet across at its
widest point on a fully grown whale and studded with four—
inch teeth. “Ken Norris used to say that a sperm whale’s head
looks like it was designed by committee,” Cranford said.

But it’s the inside of the head that is truly bizarre. The blow—
hole, which lies at the front of the head slightly to the left of
center, connects to a widened pocket at the front of the sper-
maceti organ. From this pocket, the left nasal passage loops
around the left side of the spermaceti organ and goes directly
to the lungs. The right passage begins at the same pocket and
runs back between a pair of “lips” known as the museau dc
singe, French for “monkey muzzle.”

These lips are so tightly compressed even in a dead whale—
that if you thrust your hand through them they would cutoff
the circulation at your wrist. The right nasal passage contin~
ues from the museau to create a layer of air that stretches un—
derneath the spermaceti organ and joins with a sac that covers

DISCOVER DECEMBER 2003

IMV SSI'T AHLVO <- HOLINOW 9LQ9 1792 ZOZ XVd TQITO SO/ZZ/TT

900/900-

 




7_,’...L-.;..,,

I!
.ll(-

‘ .. ‘5
9 .W“ -.-'
f.
r, .. .

v

‘ y .. r)‘
.‘L «Jr

"r.
> l‘)" ,
,‘ﬂ ,‘I'. h ,‘ ,_ii- " ‘, .A ,_ ', ‘ , . ' ' I .' . .' 2H:fy_,

1 ' ’ ' I

i"; ~"
3,35 ml, 41
ix" '

- NIH}; 4
.'.:f'n'tvi" A “Mi“
. .( IVAUIP‘w

56 DISCOVER DECEMBER 2003 PHOTOGRAPH BY REUBEN COX

ROD/L00 IAW SSI'I AHLVC) ‘- HOLINOW 9L9!) I793 303 XVd 39310 80/23/11

 




the tace oi the skull before regaining its tubula1 shape and
heading 101 the lungs. Beneath this convoluted arrangement
lie lens- shaped chunks of fat, which whaleis called junk be
cause they are more difﬁcult to retrieve than the contents of
the spermaceti organ.

“ if you think about it, this whole structure is really part of
the animal’s nose,” (Stanford said. He pointed to the parts of
the nasal passage that form pockets around the f1 0111, bottom,
1-111d back of the sper maceti olgan. T hose an 5111 faces are per-
tect sound 111i1rors,’(1111nford said.‘ Ken Norris 11nd some col~
leagues tiguz ed out that sperm whales might be making theit
L'liLks 111 the museau. i want them to be called phonic lips, even
it it does anger the Bench. Anyway, the click travels backwaid
tiom the lips 1111 ough the spern‘iaceti, which has the same
sound~conduction properties as water. The sound bounces
ott’ the air sac at the back and then comes out tluough the
junk.’ With an index tingei he 11 11CLd the path of the sound

hunt the back of the spermaceti or ~

 

10 percent of the ﬁsh in a pool. A decade later, (Stanford’s CT
scan provided more evidence. The geometry inside the ani-
mal’s nose and the density of the various tissues make a per-
fect path for a very loud, focused sound.

Cranford thinks evolution endowed sperm whales with a
gigantic nose for another reason: sex. Big male sperm whales
can advertise their size to females—and rivals—wthrough the
acoustic properties of their clicks. “When a sperm whale. .makes
a click, some of the sound goes out the junk, but ' isome of it
bounces back and forth inside the spermaceti oigan, going
being, being, being,” he said. With each IWCVCIbeléi’tltili, a slightly
fainter miniclick is projected outwaid th1ough the junk.1'he
time between each of these 111inic1icks is determined by the
length of the spermaceti organ: The longer the organ, the
longer the interval between reverberations.

“It’s the acoustic equivalent of a pea cock’s tail,” Cranford said.
“Growing a big spermaceti organ costs a male 11 lot, metaboli-

 

gan, down through the chunks of
fat, and out through the front of the
animal’s nose. By the time the sound
emerges, he said, it has been focused
down to an intense beam 110 thicker
than a telephone pole.

“Now, you have to ask yourself,
why would they want to make these
incredibly loud, focused sounds?”
tirantord said. “Especially when the
s1ructure for making them, this
spermaceti organ, is full of wax that
is actually toxic to the animal and
has to be sequestered in the cask
and is so big it makes it pretty hard
tor the animal to maneuver. A
sperm whale has this puny lower
jaw, but it eats a huge variety of
prey, from little bitty lantern fish
about the size of a pocketknife to
giant squid as long as 11 school bus.

zoo

Decibels

on
O
I

H
m
o
1
Vacuum cleaner

.b
.o‘
l l-

_'Hu'man- breathing

_ :5?

,_ ; Mosﬁuito 'b'uizz

 

. 7 1--.”;
.W.
.1 {934

_ 15.45?“
"' R123”

 

, Whaleof ra Noise

~ -A sperm whale' 5 click is by far the loudest sound produced by any
organism on the planet The complex amplification System inside a
whale" 5 head would produce nearly twine the decibels 'ot' a hum: '

‘ .peting elephant. it both soundswere heard in the open air. But the "
acoustic propertiEs. at; water magnily a whale click by another 60
decibels—potentially enough to 'st'tin vast quantities 1111111 and sqwuid-j

caily. it takes a. lot oi" energy to push
that nose through the water. And
there’s no way a smaller whale can
cheat and produce clicks that have
the acoustic properties of 11 bigger
animal.” Crantord has one ﬁnal piece
of evidence for his theory: The s per--
maceti organ in males continues to
grow, even after they reach 111aturity.
In a female whale, or a young male,
the spermaceti accounts for less than
a quarter of the animal’s total length.
It can take up as much as a third of"
the length of a big, mature male.
“When it comes to sperm whale sex,”
Cranford said, “size matters.”

Jet engine on take“

‘ Sperm whale

'1‘1111131-21’1111115 noo, 'l'l-l 1-: Ol-‘i‘ltili or NAVAI.
Research awarded Cranford a grant
to build a low-tech dolphin noise-~
maker. (Stanford, not surprisingly,
thought this made perfect sense. “Dol-

 

 

It simply can’t. pay to chase down
an individual jet—propelled squid or little lantern ﬁsh.”

Ken Norris thought that the whales use sound to stun their
prey, an idea that would have sounded preposterous had sew
eral other outlandish theories of Norris’s not been proved
r igl11.Noiiis was onL of the ﬁt st to demonstmte that dolphins
could echolocate and that they hear through then jaws. The
111 st support f01 his big bang themy emerged in 1983, when
N01 1 is and Danish 1eseaicher Bet tel Mohl per formed a quick
and dirty demonstration of the principle by setting off blast-
ing caps in a pool of squid. A later experiment in Mohl’s lab
in 0 re closely simulated the whale’s clicks and managed to stun

 

Opposite: Ted Craniord examines the skull and- lower jaw of a beaked whale.
Members of this family have recently been found stranded on beaches after
seismic surveys and Navy sonar tests Grantord IS trying to iigure Out Why.

 

 

 

phins and sperm whales make these
sounds with the tissue in their noses, and it’s all in a streamlined
package,” he says. “They did their research over several million
years of evolution. They could save us 11 lot of development time. ”

I-Iis team’s ﬁrst step was to cre ate a Lompu 1L1 model at dot
phin sound production. Next they crafted an actual device, made
with a springy rubber that cures at room temperature and spe-
cial material like that of an air bag. The rubber pieces approxi~
mate the parts of a dolphin's noise» making anatomy. Compressed
air passes through the parts and makes them vibrate, just like
the air through the pursed phonic lips in a dolphin’s nose.

Unfortunately, the Ofﬁce of Naval Research’s budget was
recently slashed, and Cranford’s project was one of those that
landed on the cu tiring-room ﬂoor. But he isn’t letting that stop
him; there’s still too much to learn about how the animals pro-
duce their sou 11d. “We aren’t getting perfect dolphin clicks yet,"
he says, “but we’re too close to quit.” L'>.'<.'.1

DISCOVER DECEMBER 2003 57

800/800. IAW SSI'I AHLVC) <- HOlINON 9L9!) 1782' 203 XVd 38310 SO/ZZ/TT

 




Page 1 of 2

,/ I, W] U; j .
, '. L"
A ’5 H) H’
I x;’ '4

Jen Rinick

 

From: Light Worker Center (Lanny and Mary Rose Sinkin) [Iight@i|hawaii.net]
Sent: Saturday, August 11, 2001 2:34 AM

To: Light Worker Center

Subject: Sen.Barbara Boxer on LFAS

 

 

mStatement of Senator Barbara Boxer Before the National Marine Fisheries
Service

a..__WASHINGTON - 04.26.01 | This country, and California in particular, has been
blessed with a tremendously rich and diverse array of whales, dolphins, and
other marine mammals that inhabit our oceans. I am disturbed by the growing
scientiﬁc evidence that low frequency active sonar has a devastating impact on
these species. This evidence suggests strongly that low frequency active sonar
is linked to internal bleeding, disorientation, hearing loss, and other negative
consequences for whales and other marine species. Recent mass strandings
have demonstrated that active sonar can even have lethal effects on these
animals.

 

 

rﬂWhile these impacts would be troubling in and of themselves, they are truly
alarming because of the already precarious position of many marine mammal
populations. Pollution, overfishing, and other human disturbances have caused
the decline of many of our most beloved marine mammals. Appropriately, we
have enacted the Marine Mammal Protection Act and Endangered Species Act to
ensure that future threats to these species are minimized. There is reason to
believe that low frequency active sonar presents just such a threat.

 

 

-Js a result of the National Marine Fisheries Service's (NMFS) recent
proposed rule, which would allow the Navy to proceed with deployment of this
sonar system, I have heard an outcry from constituents who are concerned
about the rule's impact. I urge NMFS to consider the Navy's proposal with a
great deal of caution. Until the scientific community can prove that this
technology will not have severe impacts on imperiled or endangered marine
mammals, we should be wary of approving a proposal that would allow its use
in nearly all of our oceans. I think it would also be appropriate for Congress to
hold a series of hearings to explore the implications of this technology. I expect
the Oceans and Fisheries Subcommittee of the Senate Commerce Committee on
which I serve to hold a hearing on this matter later this year.

 

 

 

 

 

 

mWe have spent a great deal of effort trying to conserve and restore our most
treasured marine species. For some species, such as humpback whales, these
efforts have resulted in incredible rebounds. The tremendous popularity of
whale-watching cruises are an indication of just how much public support and
interest there is in the well-being of these species. While I have previously
supported funding for the Navy to explore this new technology, I think it would
be a mistake to prematurely approve a dramatic expansion in the use of low
frequency active sonar systems until we know that it will not cause harm to
these invaluable and irreplaceable species.

 

 

8/13/01

 




DRAFT REPORT —- Please do not cite without permission of the authors. 04/25/00 Page 1

Preliminary Report on Beaked Whales in the Bahama Islands, with a

summary and discussion of the strandings of March 15, 2000.
By Diane Claridge & Ken Balcomb

Prior to 1990, beaked whales (Family Ziphiidae, Order Cetacea) were known to
occur in the Bahama Islands primarily from evidence of their episodic stranding (Moore,
195 8; Caldwell and Caldwell, 1971; and Balcomb, 1981). The Bahama Islands are not
anomalous in this respect, they are typical of human knowledge of beaked whale
zoogeography worldwide. The initial scientiﬁc descriptions of the twenty species of
beaked whales that are currently known are based primarily on stranded specimens found
in the recent three centuries, including two new species described since 1989. Throughout
history only a very few directed ﬁsheries for the larger beaked whales have been
conducted; and, there have been very few other fresh specimens examined by specialists.
Nonetheless, beaked whales are currently known to occur in all oceans, and for the most
part they are enigmatic with their typical habitats near deep water escarpments and
seamounts where their principal prey (squid) are found. Their offshore distribution, deep
diving habits and usual shyness toward vessels have all contributed to little being known
of their life habits throughout much of their range.

Since 1991, we have been conducting annual dedicated vessel surveys in the
northern Bahama Islands to photo-document marine mammal species occurrence and
distribution, and for individual recognition to examine population size, structure and
behavioral ecology of selected species. Beaked whales comprise 31% of our oceanic
marine mammal encounters, and we have found them in all seasons of the year,
preponderantly in waters of 500+ meters in depth. Blainville’s dense~beaked whale
(Mesop/oa’on densirostris) and Cuvier’s goose-beaked whale (Zip/nus cavirostris) are the
two species we have identiﬁed and individually recognized in our northern study area;
and, we have documented both of these species and Gervais’ Antillean beaked whale
(Mesoplodon europaeus) in the southern Bahama Islands.

We submit annual reports of our ﬁndings to the Bahamas Department of
Fisheries, and to Earthwatch Institute, our sponsor for these ﬁeld studies. We have also
gratuitously provided a summary of our information on marine mammal abundance and
distribution to the US Navy for their offshore environmental assessment of marine life in
the Bahamas (Attachment 1); and, we have commented on the Navy’s proposed
deployment of a Low Frequency Active Sonar system (LF AS) worldwide, particularly as
it may affect beaked whales (Attachment 2). From that material, the Navy had ample
opportunity to be aware that the deepwater channels between and around the Bahama
Islands are prime beaked whale habitat.

Recent concern has been raised in published reports about the potential effects of
military operations on whale behavior and physiology with particular reference to the
coincidence of their mass stranding concurrent with or following naval anti-submarine
warfare exercises. Twelve whales stranded in Greece in 1996 (Frantzis, 1998); a total of
twenty-four whales stranded in the Canary Islands on three occasions (Simmonds and
Lopez-Juraco, 1991); four whales stranded in Bonaire (Van Bree and Kristensen, 1974);
and, most recently ﬁfteen whales and a dolphin stranded on March 15, 2000, in the
northern Bahamas (this report). All of these reports note the coincidence of naval
maneuvers around the time of the mass strandings. In the case of the strandings in the

 




DRAFT REPORT - Please do not cite without permission of the authors. 04/25/00 Page 2

Bahamas, “The Commander in Chief, US. Atlantic Fleet, is reviewing the transit of
seven ships and three submarines through the area of the Northwest New Providence
Channel during the morning and afternoon of March 15 in an effort to determine if any
action by these vessels could have created an environment hazardous to the marine
mammals.” (CINCLANTFLT Press Release #14-00, 21 April 2000)

Part 1. Summary of knowledge of beaked whales and other marine mammals in the
northern Bahama Islands as determined from our surveys. DEC

Part 2. Summary of whale and dolphin Strandings on March 15, 2000 DEC & KCB

The following is a summary of whale and dolphin strandings in the northern
Bahama Islands on March 15, 2000, including one beaked whale we found freshly dead
early on March 16, and one beaked whale found decomposing on March 17. We have
been directly involved in assisting with rescue or necropsy of nine of these animals. In
retrospect, it seems most plausible that all ﬁﬁeen whales and the dolphin came inshore
nearly coincident in time on March 15, beginning in the early morning hours in Abaco
and around mid-day in Grand Bahama. Most of these animals were alive when ﬁrst seen
by observers. We escorted four of the live stranded beaked whales (two Cuvier’s goose-
beaked whales and two Blainville’s dense-beaked whales) back to sea, and we have
reliable reports that two other “beaked whales” and two minke whales were returned to
sea alive. Seven of the stranded beaked whales and the dolphin died within hours of
stranding, and specimen materials are available for all of these, in addition to skin
samples from two live rescued whales.

The large number of nearly coincident live strandings and the fact that they
involved at least four species in three families of two suborders of cetaceans is considered
highly unusual and probably related. Beaked whale strandings are considered rare, their
mass stranding is even more rare, and the only minke whale stranding we know about in
the Bahama Islands was in the mid-1970’s at Guana Cay. The beaked whales that we
examined or assisted back to sea appeared to be in good health and good body condition,
but they seemed disoriented and swam back into shallow water unless guided to water 20
or more feet in depth. Perhaps their disorientation was due to the fact that they are a deep-
water species unaccustomed to shallow depths, but they may also have had impaired
vestibular function for reasons yet to be explained. The focal area of the strandings of
March 15 was along shores of the Northeast and Northwest Providence Channel, between
Nassau/Eleuthera and Grand Bahama/Abaco (Figure 1.).

Stranding Summary:

On March 15 at 8: 15 AM, a seventeen foot long (estimated) Cuvier’s goose-beaked
whale (Ziphius cavirostrz’s) stranded alive in front of our research station at Sandy‘Point,
Abaco (26 OON 77 24W). We immediately pushed it off the shore and guided it by boat to
deep water by 9: 12 AM, whereupon it swam away. The whale appeared to be very
disoriented, but was swimming strongly as it departed the shallow water toward deep sea.
This rescue was videotaped and the whale was photographed for later recognition. The
whale appeared to be almost mature, probably male, and in lean good health. It is worth

 




DRAFT REPORT — Please do not cite without permission of the authors. 04/25/00 Page 3

noting that we had previously photo-identiﬁed this whale with two others on March 1
swimming off Southwest Point, Abaco at 25 50.439N 77 16.576W. This whale is given
Animal ID number 4-Zc in NMFS Draft Necropsy and Disposition Summary 4/7/2000.

On March 15 around 7:30 AM, a twelve foot long (estimated) Cuvier’s goose-beaked
whale (Ziphius cavirostris) was stranded alive at Rocky Point one half mile south of our
research station. When we were notiﬁed at 8:35 AM, it was almost completely out of
water due to ebbing tide. The local low tide was at 10:18 AM, and the whale could not be
moved until the tide began to rise afterwards. We were still guiding the ﬁrst whale to
deep water when the second report was received, so we divided our team of volunteers
and had them work with other local people to cover the stranded whale with towels and
sheets and keep it wet. When the tide rose sufficiently to get this whale onto a blue tarp
and have twelve people lift and drag it off the shoals, we escorted it to water deep enough
to release it and escort it with kayaks and an inﬂatable boat to deep water at 1:03 PM.
While aground, the whale was bleeding from several superﬁcial ventral body and tail
scratches and two 6-8’ sharks were swimming nearby. The whale stopped bleeding when
we got it into the blue tarp and the sharks were dispersed before the whale was escorted
to deep water. This whale appeared to be much younger and more disoriented than the
8: 15 AM whale, and it was not swimming as strongly. We collected some scraped skin
samples of this whale for DNA analysis prior to release. This rescue was also videotaped,
and the whale was photographed for later recognition. This whale was given Animal ID
number 6-Zc in MS Draft Necropsy and Disposition Summary 4/7/2000.

On March 15 at 8:35 AM, a fourteen foot long (estimated) Blainville’s dense-beaked
whale (Mesoplodon densirostris) was discovered stranded alive at Sandy Point one
hundred yards north of our research station. Our neighbors pushed it off the shore and
escorted it over shallow water with kayaks, and we escorted it with an inﬂatable boat to
deep water by about 10:33 AM. From analysis of the video taken of the rescue, this whale
is estimated to be of adult size but fairly clean of seaming, suggesting it was female; and,
it was uninjured and swimming strongly. Only the last few moments of this rescue were
videotaped as the whale swam off into very deep water, and it was photographed for later
identiﬁcation. This whale was given Animal [D number 5-Md in NMFS Draft Necropsy
and Disposition Summary 4/7/2000.

As we were assisting the three whales reported above, we received a report that on
March 15 at 7 AM, a ﬁve foot long Atlantic spotted dolphin (Stenellafrontalis) was
stranded alive at Powell Cay (26 54N 77 29W. Tourists kept the dolphin wet for much of
the day until Dr. Bater (a marine mammal veterinarian from Freeport, Grand Bahama)
and Diane Claridge arrived around 5 PM. The dolphin died shortly after their arrival and
was brought to a storage freezer at Sandy Point, Abaco by 8 PM. Ken Balcomb and
Diane Claridge delivered the entire frozen dolphin to Dr. Ketten on 30 March for CT
scans at Harvard Medical School; and, on 31 March assisted in delivery of the still solidly
frozen dolphin to Dr. Ketten’s laboratory at Woods Hole for frozen storage pending
additional studies. This dolphin was given Animal ID number 13-Sf in NMF S Draft
Necropsy and Disposition Summary 4/7/2000.

On March 15 at 11 AM, a fourteen foot long (estimated) Blainville’s dense-beaked
whale (Mesoplodon densirostris) was noted by Disney personnel to be swimming in the
channel of a mangrove lagoon at Gorda Cay (26 06N 77 32W). The whale was ﬁrst
thought by them to be a dolphin; but, when it stranded and was reported to us at 3:30 PM

 




DRAFT REPORT — Please do not cite without permission of the authors. 04/25/00 Page 4

for assistance with rescue, it was obviously a whale. We responded by boat to the report
at 4 PM and used the blue tarp method of wrapping the whale and hand holding it
alongside the boat as we took it toward deep water. Disney personnel on a jet-ski
conducted the ﬁnal escort to deep water at sunset as we returned to Sandy Point. The
rescue was brieﬂy videotaped, the whale was photographed for later identiﬁcation, and a
sloughed skin sample was saved for DNA analysis. This whale was given Animal [D
number 3-Md in NMFS Draft Necropsy and Disposition Summary 4/7/2000.

On March 15 at 12 noon, a 15 foot long female Cuvier’s goose-beaked whale
(Ziphius cavirostris) was reported to have been stranded at High Rock, Grand Bahama
(26 37N 78 17W). It was ﬁrst seen alive by schoolgirls who saw it swimming near the
beach inside of the barrier reef. They saw no other whales or sharks in the area. Eden
Butler of UNEXSO arrived at 4 PM, by which time the whale was stranded and dead. He
took photographs and measurements, and commented that it had no fresh shark bites. Dr.
Bater took skin samples of this whale in the evening of 15 March. The specimen was then
buried and could be exhumed if it is considered important for analysis. This whale was
given Animal ID number 7-Zc in NMFS Draft Necropsy and Disposition Summary
4/7/2000.

On March 15 at 12:30 PM, an 18 foot long whale with a pointed nose, and a calf
whale were reportedly stranded alive on opposite sides of Peterson Cay, Grand Bahama
(26 33N 78 31W). Tourists pushed both whales back out and they apparently did not re-
strand. No photographs or specimen material known, but from the description these were
probably beaked whales. Reportedly the calf stranded ﬁrst and the “female” swam around
trying to get to it. These unidentiﬁed probable beaked whales whales were given Animal
ID numbers 1-U and 2-U in NMFS Draft Necropsy and Disposition Summary 4/7/2000.

On March 15 at 2:30 PM, two 18 foot long probable Cuvier’s goose-beaked whales
were observed live stranded on sandbars near Red Shank Cay (26 28N 77 46W) in the
Burrows Group east of Grand Bahama. The ﬁshermen who reported the whales noted that
one whale that was completely stranded had “funny” teeth 2-3” long, and the other whale
was still swimming in the shallow water (photographs are being sent to us). The initial
report in the evening of March 15 indicated the whales were stranded on Burrows Cay,
which caused some confusion in our response. Ken Balcomb and Bill Anspach ﬂew over
the area by seaplane in the morning of March 16 and saw a whale on shore at Water Cay
(26 26N 77 46W) in the Burrows Group, but none in the water or on nearby sandbars.
The following day, Ken Balcomb and Dave Ellifrit went by inﬂatable boat to the area in
the morning and collected the head and some tissue samples of the whale seen on Water
Cay, identifying it as a male Cuvier’s goose-beaked whale (Ziphius cavirostris) about
sixteen feet long with unerupted teeth. It had been badly attacked by sharks and the dorsal
ﬁn, ﬂippers and tail were missing. It apparently exsanguinated, Suggesting the attacks
were pre~mortem. This may have been the whale reported to be alive in the water near
Red Shank Cay, or it may have been yet another whale. The head was frozen at 8. PM on
March 17; and, Dr. Ketten removed the earbones at mid-day on March 21., remarking that
they were in an excellent state of preservation. The frozen head and formalin preserved
earbones were delivered personally by Ken Balcomb and Diane Claridge to Dr. Ketten at
Harvard Medical School on 30 Manch at 8 Pm for CT scans that evening. The frozen
head was then taken on 31 March 2000 to Dr. Ketten’s laboratory at Woods Hole for

 




DRAFT REPORT — Please do not cite without permission of the authors. 04/25/00 Page 5

continued frozen storage pending additional study. This whale was given Animal ID
number 8-Zc in NMFS Necropsy and Disposition Summary 4/7/2000.

On March 15 at time unknown, two Cuvier’s goose-beaked whales (Ziphius
cavirostris) were reported stranded at Gold Rock Creek, Grand Bahama (26 36N 78
22W). Dr. Bater, a marine mammal veterinarian in Freeport, Grand Bahama, conducted a
preliminary examination of these whales on March 17 and determined that one was male
and the other was a female, 17 and 18 feet long, respectively. He requested that a
veterinary Pathologist assist with the necropsy, and Dr. Ruth Ewing from NMFS
Southeast arrived on March 18 to assist. Ken Balcomb also arrived on March 18 to assist.
Unfortunately, the whales had been buried on order of local authorities by that time. The
whales were exhumed at noon, and Drs. Ewing and Bater conducted the necropsy of the
carcasses, which were by then decomposing. The heads were removed and taken to Dr.
Bater’s ofﬁce where they were iced down to await examination by Dr. Ketten, a cetacean
ear specialist. Dr. Ketten and Charles Potter from the US National Museum arrived on
March 19 and removed and preserved earbones from both whales for later analysis,
noting that they were not in a good state of preservation. The male had erupted teeth
protruding one inch from the gum, which Ken Balcomb collected for aging studies and
has at Sandy Point, Abaco. The heads were placed in frozen storage at UNEXSO, but
considering their condition of decomposition no further tissue or CT studies of them are
anticipated. It has been reported to us by Dr. Bater that the necropsy specimen materials
from these whales have been portioned, with half sent to the Bahamian Department of
Fisheries and half sent to Dr. Ewing for NMFS analysis. The earbone(s) collected from
each whale has been or will be forwarded by Dr. Ewing to Dr. Ketten for additional
analysis. Hoyt Peckham and Nan Hauser assisted with the necropsy and documented it
on ﬁlm and video. The whales were given Animal ID number lO—Zc for the 18’ female
and Animal ID number ll-Zc for the 17’ male in NMFS Draft Necropsy and Disposition
Summary 4/7/2000.

On March 15 at 12 noon, a whale was reported alive in shallow water 1 mile south of
Meek’s Patch, North Eleuthera (25 30N 76 46W) by the sailing vessel “Morning Wind”.
At 5:30 PM that same day, a whale was seen in shallow water on the “conch ﬂats” on the
north side of nearby Royal Island and the following morning was found stranded alive on
the northwest shore of Royal Island (25 31N 76 49W). Good quality photographs taken at
that time permit us to identify this animal as a‘minke whale (Balaenoptera acutorostrata)
about 21 feet long. This whale was kept alive by locals and boaters and escorted through
the reef out to deep water on the north side of Royal Island around 4 PM on March 16. A
second minke whale (Balaenoptera acutorostrata.), reportedly larger in size than the
stranded whale was found swimming in ten to ﬁfteen foot deep water on the morning of
March 16 in Royal Island Harbour (25 31N 76 51W). We have reviewed a video taken by
observers on the yacht, “Snowy Owl” on March 16, and can conﬁrm species identity as a
minke whale. This whale was escorted out of the harbour to deep water off Egg Island on
March 17. No specimen materials were taken of either whale. It is believed that the whale
reported earlier off Meek’s Patch is referable to one of these animals, probably the one
that ended up in the harbour. These whales were both given Animal ID number 11—Ba in
NNIFS Draft Necropsy and Disposition Summary 4/7/2000 (Note, however, these were
deﬁnitely at least two whales involved, and possibly three).

 




DRAFT REPORT —- Please do not cite without permission of the authors. 04/25/00 Page 6

On March 16 at 11 AM, an eleven foot long male Blainville’s dense-beaked whale
(Mesoplodon densirostris) was sighted by Diane Claridge in the mangrove lagoon of
Cross Harbour Creek, Abaco (25 56N 77 16W), approximately one half mile from the
lagoon entrance and more than two miles from the nearest deep water. She and our
Earthwatch team members arrived on foot at the whale at 11:36 AM and conﬁrmed that it
was freshly dead and lying on its left side in about 4 inches of water in the sand and turtle
grass. We estimate that the whale died at the location and in the orientation that it was
found; i.e., it did not die elsewhere and drift in and roll over with the tide. Our reasoning
is as follows: Upon examination, the skin was notably abraded near the left mandible and
neck area forward of the ﬂipper (see the frozen head at Dr. Ketten’s laboratory for
conﬁrmation), with the abrasion scratches running dorso-ventrally. That pattern, and the
fact that the left ﬂuke was also abraded and had excavated a deep hole in the surrounding
sand, suggests that the whale was alive when it arrived at its stranding location, and that it
died on its left side, causing the abrasions and creating the hole in its ﬁnal struggles.

Our best estimate for time of death is approximately 7 AM on March 16, based on
the following circumstantial information. The girth of the whale was 74 inches, hence
water depth must have been approximately 30 inches for the whale to have swurn to its
stranding location upright under its own power. That would require +3/4 tide or greater
depth. Local high tide of +2.8 feet was at 5:58 AM, and low tide of 0.0 feet was at 11:19
AM on March 16, Le. the whale would have had to swim to its found location between
3:30 AM and 6:30 AM. A prior tide window of similar opportunity for stranding in its
found location would have been from 2:50 to 5:50 PM on March 15, which is possible;
but, in that case the carcass would not have appeared as fresh, and it probably would have
drifted and attracted scavengers. Most of the body coloration appeared normal (not
darkened or dried from exposure), suggesting the skin had not been exposed to air for a
long period (several tides), and there were no shark bites.

A notable exception to the apparently normal skin coloration was an extensive
and well-deﬁned raspberry—tinted discoloration (bruise?) visible on the right side mid-
ventrally and laterally, extending from behind and under the right ﬂipper to the anus. This
discoloration was unilateral and not estimated to be the result of lividity, because it was
not generalized and extending to the head and throat region, as one would expect had the
whale died with its right side down during an earlier low tide and subsequently rolled
over. This discoloration is particularly notable in the light of Dr. Ketten’s subsequent
observation with UHR-CT of a discrete ovoid subarachnoid hemorrhage in the right
temporal fossa of the braincase, “strongly suggestive of a pressure induced trauma”.

If our estimate of time of stranding is correct, it raises the following questions:
“Could this whale be the Sandy Point 5—Md or the Gorda Cay 3-Md restranded?”

Our photo-identiﬁcation of all of these whales demonstrates that this was not the case;
there were, in fact, three different whales documented by their different scar patterns and
dorsal ﬁn shape. Secondly, “What was this whale (12Md) doing in a mangrove lagoon for
twelve to twenty-four hours if it arrived presumably coincident in time with the early ,
morning beaked whale strandings at Sandy/Rocky Point on March 15, or the Gorda Cay
whale noted approximately three hours later?” In response, the scenario of the Gorda Cay
dense-beaked whale stranding on March 15 (3-Md) is particularly instructive. That whale
was ﬁrst noted swimming in the deeper channels (6+ feet) of a similar mangrove lagoon
system at 11:00 AM (near low tide). When we anived at 4:30 PM (near high tide), this

 




DRAFT REPORT -—- Please do not cite without permission of the authors. 04/25/00 Page 7

whale was still in that lagoon system and was in the process of stranding farther from the
entrance in the shallow water out of the channels. Was this an impaired and confused
whale, or was it simply maladapted to shallow water? In either case, the whale clearly
was not leaving the lagoon of its own accord and without human help it would surely
have died during subsequent low tide(s).

At 1156, the subject whale (12-Md) was rolled upright, slid onto a blue tarp, and
dragged lengthwise over the sand and grass ﬂats at mid-tide to deeper water. It was then
tied alongside an inﬂatable boat for towing to a suitable necropsy site at the Cross
Harbour boat ramp. The whale carcass in the tarp ﬂoated low in the water, indicating near
neutral buoyancy, as opposed to positive buoyancy caused by gas buildup from
decomposition. It was landed at the boat ramp at 1450 hours, where it was dragged by
hand out of the water tail ﬁrst, belly down, in the blue tarp. The whale was then measured
following standard methods (Geraci and Lounsbury, 1993, Fig. 10.7). Total length was
132.5” in a straight line, and ﬂuke span was 33”. Other measurements are available upon
request.

The whale was decapitated at 3: 19 PM and frank blood was collected in a Ziploc
bag, iced at 3:20 PM on March 16, kept on ice overnight and put in a home freezer at
8:30 AM on March 17. The state of autolysis of this blood sample may help determine
time of death more precisely. The head was wrapped in a plastic bag and placed in a chest
freezer in Nancy’s Restaurant in Sandy Point at 8 PM on March 16. After decapitation,
the whale was rolled onto its left side and the body cavity was opened on the right side at
3:25 PM. All of the major organs grossly appeared normal at that time, with the
exception that there were red bands following the angle of the ribs apparent on the lateral
surface of the right lung. The comment at the time was that this might be blood
(hemorrhage). The lungs appeared to be remarkably ﬁrm and positively buoyant, the
heart appeared normal and parasite free, and the intestines were not occluded or necrotic.
No parasites or pathology were noted grossly in any organs, with the exception that the
mesentery appeared bloodier than expected. Samples of liver, heart, right lung, right
kidney, right body muscle, and mesenteric lymph nodes were collected, iced by 3:40
PM, and kept iced until placed in 10% unbuffered formalin at 2 PM on March 17 (we
had to send someone 55 miles to Marsh Harbour during normal business hours the next
morning to buy formaldehyde). Approximately one half of each organ sample and the
right testis, left pelvic bone, stomach with contents and pancreas, and a 2” square of skin
and blubber were kept iced overnight and placed in a freezer at 8:30 AM on March 17.
Much of this amateur necrOpsy was videotaped and photographed, and is available for
further professional analysis.

The frozen head of this whale was delivered to Dr. Darlene Ketten at the
Department of Otolaryngology, Harvard Medical School, on March 30 at 7:30 PM for
UHR—CT scanning. Dr. Ketten’s report is submitted separately. Samples of the formalin-
fixed and frozen samples will be sent to Dr. Ruth Ewing, National Marine Fisheries
Service, Southeast Region for additional analysis. A blubber sample from this whale was
delivered by priority mail to Dr. Margaret Krahn, Manager, Environmental Chemistry
Branch, National Marine Fisheries Service. on April 4 for environmental contaminant
analysis. Additional samples of most tissues are archived at the Bahamas Marine
Mammal Survey in Sandy Point, Abaco, Bahama Islands. This whale was given Animal
ID number 12-Md in NMFS Draft Necropsy and Disposition Summary 4/7/2000.

 




DRAFT REPORT — Please do not cite without permission of the authors. 04/25/00 Page 8

On March 20 at time unknown, one Cuvier’s goose-beaked whale (Ziphius
cavirostris) was reported stranded at Freetown, Grand Bahama (26 35N 78 29W); but, it
was subsequently learned that this whale was on the beach as early as March 17, already
“stinking”. Dr. Bater and Charles Potter conducted a brief necropsy on March 20, noting
that the whale was an 18 foot long male, decomposing; and, it was estimated to have died
around the same time as the other Grand Bahama strandings reported above (i.e. March
15). The tip of the jaw had been cutoff, presumably by someone who wanted to obtain
the teeth. The earbones were collected for Dr. Ketten. Hoyt Peckham and Nan Hauser
documented the necropsy on ﬁlm and video. This whale was given Animal ID number
l4-Zc in NMFS Draft NecrOpsy and Disposition Summary 4/7/2000.

Literature Cited:

Balcomb, Kenneth C., 1981. Ziphiid whales from The Bahamas. Bahamas Naturalist,
Summer 1981, pages 19-22.

Caldwell, David K. and Melba C. Caldwell, 1971. Beaked Whales, Ziphius cavirosrris, in
the Bahamas. Quart. Jour. Florida Acad. Sci. 34(2) pp 157-160.

Frantzis, A. Does acoustic testing strand whales? Nature, 392: pg. 29.

Geraci, Joseph R. and Valerie J Lounsbury, 1993., Marine Mammals Ashore, a ﬁeld guide
for stranding. Texas A&M Sea Grant Publication. ISBN1-883550-01-7.

Moore, Joseph C., 1958. A Beaked Whale from the Bahama Islands and Comments on
the Distribution of Mesoplodon densirosrris. American Museum Novitates, N0. 1897,
pp.1-12.

Simmonds, MP and LP. Lopez-Jurado, 1991. Whales and the military. Nature, 351: pg
448.

Van Bree, Peter, III. and Ingvar Kristensen, 1974. On the intriguing stranding of four
Cuvier’s beaked whales, Zz'phius cavirostrz‘s G. Cuvier, 1823, on the Lesser Antillean
Island of Bonaire. Bijdragen tot de Dierkunde,.44(2) pp. 235-238.

 




Reuters
20 November 2003

Driftnets Said Decimating
Mediterranean Dolphins

GENEVA - Driftnets are killing tens of thousands of dolphins in the
Mediterranean despite bans on the ﬁshing method by the European Union
and United Nations, a major environmental group said on Thursday.

The Swiss-based WWF-Intemational said ﬁshermen from Italy, France,
Turkey and Morocco - and probably other countries — were decimating
the dolphin population as well as shark and turtle species by using the
nets.

"Illegal driftnet ﬁshing currently happening around the whole of the
Mediterranean results in a massive slaughter of vulnerable species,"
said Paolo Guglielmi of the WWF's special programme for the region.

WWF marine expert Simon Cripps said the only way to prevent the
slaughter ”is to make the Mediterranean a driftnet-free sea by enforcing
a total ban on all driftnet ﬁsheries". EU member states violating the
ban should be prosecuted, the WWF said.

The body issued its statement in advance of a U.N.-sponsored Diplomatic

Conference on Mediterranean Fisheries starting in Venice on November 25.

The 15—nation EU banned all driftnet ﬁshing by member states from
January 1 last year and there has been a UN. moratorium on large-scale
driftnets since 1992.

The nets, aimed at catching ﬁsh varieties, stretch for anything between
seven and 14 km (about four to eight miles) and entangle dolphins and
other endangered marine species, most of which die or have to be killed.

The WWF, formally known as the World Wide Fund for Nature, said the
Moroccan driftnet ﬁeet with 177 boats was "the most lethal for
Mediterranean marine biodiversity,“ catching annually 3000-4000 of one
threatened dolphin variety alone in a south-western part of the sea.

This was more than one tenth ofthe dolphin population ofthe area,
known as the AIboran sea.

The WWF said the Italian driftnet ﬂeet, which had 700 boats in the
early 1990s, still had nearly 100 boats that had not been adapted

MANATEE REMAINS ENDANGERED; Florida’s Fish and Wildlife Conservation
Commission has postponed a vote for at least a year on removing the

manatee from the state's endangered species list until the process for
determining if a species is endangered can be ﬁxed says the St.

Petersburg Trmes 11/20. A state endangered listing is important

“because counties and cities use them in deciding what development to

allow in wildlife habitats." Environmentalists were pleased with plans

to ﬁx the listing process, which they maintain “sets such a high

threshold for an animal to be classiﬁed as endangered that even the

Florida panther, with only 80 to 100 left, would not qualify.”

SALMON RUN BELlEVED EXTINCT: A “once abundant run of freshwater
salmon" in Washington’s Lake Sammamish is now believed to have gone
extinct atter biologists “could not ﬁnd a single ﬁsh going upstream

to spawn in Issaquah Creek, the run’s only spawning ground" says the
Seattle Trmes 11/1’8. Early-run kokanee are a variety of ocean-going
sockeye but live entirely in freshwater and the last sighting was in

2000, ‘When only two were seen.” In 1975, an estimated 15,000 kokanee
went upstream and numbers of the late—run kokanee are also declining
fast, prompting warnings that the USFWS must act quickly on a 2000
listing petition or the late run “will suffer the same fate as the early run.”

LOGGING DOESN’T KILL GRIZLIES, ROADS DC; New research in
British Columbia has found that "logging is not necessarily bad for the
survival of grizzlies” but “roads are a killer” says the Prince George
Citizen 10/8. Even closed roads can be easily accessed by people with
all-terrain vehicles and as the bears use them for travel deadly

conﬂicts with humans are fostered, particularly during the fall

hunting season. The study found that 8 of 11 radio-collared grizzlies
died as a result of human conﬂicts, on average "less than 500 metres
from a road.”

WOLF DEATHS INVESTIGATED: The USFWS is investigating the deaths of
three Yellowstone-area wolves, "including one that apparently was shot”

says SFGatecom, AP 11/19. The wolves were found on public lands at
different times and places this fall and do not seem to be linked. The

wolves had been dead "quite a period of time” and some might have died

of natural causes. It has been two years since the last illegal wolf

killing in Wyoming-

despite restructuring subsidies from the EU.

France still had 75 boats that did not comply with the Brussels ban.
the WWF said

SO/ZZ/TI

XVd SEIIO

91.99 I783 303

HOLI NOW

IMV SSI'I AHtLVC) ‘—

trio/soon

 




  
    
 

1667 a St., Napa, Cal.
Mon., Oct. 21/65

My dear Christine:

  
  
 

  

Just a hurried note to thank you for the package
of your letter of Sept. 28 hummnhnmxmnnmnmnnmnnnnpmgnx

  
 

most of which I have mailed out.

  
 

I have your letter and think your idea of getting

  
 

a friend of John Steinbeck to get Steinbeck to think

   
    
   
  

he thought of a book about our problem. It would do

as much good for the world as Thomas Paine's or

     
 

Harriet's “Uncl Tom's Cabin“ or Jack London's two

  
 

books aboutﬂtraining dogs to do tricks for shows,

titled "Jerry" and "Michael, Brother of Jerry", which

  
  
  
    
   
 
 

doubtless led to legislation against cruelty, and one
can tell when an animal is trained with kindness.

How about Louis Untermeyer, Great Hill Rd.,

Newtown, Conn. address C/o Harcourt, Brace & 00.,
publishers, 585 Madison Ave., New York. He loves cats

& I wrote him at his publishers to do something for this.
You might use your influence on him, too.
Is Madeleine Bemelmans related to the writer? He

could help, too.

Sen. J. w. Fullbright sent me only a copy of

zS-SEB ‘ //{i
More later. Hazel Fays ,f;/,/ij/

    
  

  




DON H. CLAUSEN
MEMBER OF CONGRESS
Isr DISTRICT. CALIFORNIA

“THE REDWOOD EMPIRE DISTRICT"

WASHINGTON ADDRESS:
ROOM 229
HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING
WASHINGTON. D.C. 20515
PHONE: CAPITOL 4-3121
EXT. 3311

‘\
\

COMMITTEE ON PUBLIC WORKS

SUBCOMMITTEES:
RIVERS AND HARBORs

Congress at the Mm’teb ﬁtates w...';::::323:f§:m

lemme of iaepresentatihes
Washington, E. (21:.

October 9, 1963

Mr. H. S. Mays

1667 H Street

Napa, California

Dear Mr. Mays:

Thank you for your recent letter.

I have enclosed a list of the Members
of the House of Representatives in
accordance with your request.

If I can be of further assistance
in the future, please contact me.

Kindest regards.

Sincerely,

Don H. Clausen
Member of Congress

DHC/s

1' > 7 r,
«”1 sent a personal letter to the 496 m mbers of Congress.

hazel Mays ﬁg .
ff

 




 

Sub-hunting technology
could devastate whales . 1

«rs-«'-
BY DAVID HARRISON ' 'M C i

The Sunday Telegraph 951 0“
Vick Pl (.1 to) Commit

LONDON --—— A powerful new form of sonar that can track
submarines across vast distances could soon be sweeping 80
per cent of the world’s oceans — with potentially devastating
consequences for whales, dolphins and similar creatures.

' Low-frequency active sonar can kill marine life at close
range because the noise it emits is millions of times more
intense than theRoyal Navy considers safe for human divers
and billions of times more intense than the level known to dis—
turb large whales, according to scientists.

The navy is currently examining research into the potential
effects on wildlife of the low—frequency sonar system that is
intended to track “silent” submarines.

A new submarine—hunter, equipped with. the system, has
already been ordered and is expected to be in action by 2006.
TOny Watts, the editor of Jane ’5 Underwater Warfare Systems,
said the new “active” sonar would supplement existing “pas-
sive” systems that are noiseless.

Plans by the US. navy to introduce a similar system have
prompted furious protests and allegations that it breaks mam—
mal protection laws. The US. government is also evaluating
the environmental impact.

lf Britain and tr e U.S. go ahead, 80 per cent of the world’s
oceans will be scanned by the low-frequency active sonar,
which is so powerful that a singlesour‘cecan cover hundreds
of thousands of square kilometres.

.1—

 

 

 

 

 




BARRY GOLDWATER

ARIZONA

’ECnifeh ﬁfafes $enafe

WASHINGTON. D.C.

September 1, 196M

Miss Bessie Johnson
SheratoneAtlantic Hotel
Herald Square

New York, 1 1209

Dear Miss Johnson:

Many thanks for your recent communication, and
for your suggestions, which I appreciate.

The demands on my time prevent me from commenting
on them in detail, but you gay4§e suxe that they _
will be kept inmind in the course of the campaign;

Sin frely
Aé " ’

A?
.311.“ 1' ‘2 .‘1
A; - j ,
I ‘ . M V. ;. I‘ ,V. -: ? r‘f ~ '
5 1A A? ; .... .. .3 2A“ A” u
v '- )I ’

Barry Goiﬁwater

 




LEW / r3 , 4 f4 V;

C/(LL C-CCLCC, 52442:) CCCLCLLCJ ‘ CH .1

Q A C/ Mﬁé»rC/’& LCCIHK/

/ I Z 4kmr’4) ﬂd ca; ' /' “£7410 , 7: 9 g , ‘ CLL //L _ ’R‘
ﬂ 4 “(W "CA C“ 5' ﬂu? M “M L/ " CL? ,, .CCZCC’C-ECC CC

/
MiL/é/ / ”-C‘ \'2 ,C’ ,7
CC C C \ZLC C /\ Cs)\ CCCLCJ/ L L / C ,Q (CJZMLZQ.

I
'2""t54/~£/ S"
C I’} C, I; “if he
Qtt'C/E/b/LMI .1/ “- \f' 1:) k \_ )

gm:
. .

L/ ( VL/ ‘4 OCZa—CC. (LC y//7l g7C/Z/C/C‘

\~___.m... .. ﬂ. . .,

4M:- / CLLL

‘\

”my“ kw /2‘K“C’CC C/ C 46: C

St >144 /j “5’9; (ALL,

4 /
E54 4 C C // C L

ﬁll-(16.21,» (N F a ‘ 2 , L /
JV / IMV C(Wé/ 9‘9; 3C 1L7N/ /,Z,-c. C—CCK Q/ M

9W% s \//

‘ 7

z;

/
/

(/41 ML $4“ i/Ci’d M 'ﬂémtﬁv/Ld / fad/7 -:7/C’€/ [LC/ /é.,/C(3’7L/(\

14 Cw CCCC *4—

L 4 C: MX 1 4 7—53 ..g/’(L_¢C47,,__ZL

/ " C C
\Z‘fC g (L LéLC-WL / ’7L{' f>XZ 77,14 ‘71”;(7 /:\

/ C C (CV/,3 7M- ., 1
6H7 %46 C409 /\/C‘H¢LC fC CLQ‘ 7144/“ [ﬂu/é /CC ,7 MCCCCCC?

MW ,. 476’ v 74—1CLCHH é {CC [44a (/CC: )‘CZC-C-ﬁ-CCCC‘),
QC .. £1 /1/ = Z
(ﬂ A¢H%/é( 76;“ Cy WWW f

*7 ) V CIl/CCCTZQLCQM kW. ‘

'L/C/ ﬂkacL-yC/(éL/c/ /C \C( C/(é’ LC (LC/[ﬂ (Cl/T] , '_ r" ,. ,7: i, ACCT“

”K CK.

KC

I 2’ \ C" ' _ “ . “a ' A f,"
s/L/y CZ“? /Q_/él. ’3 63“” /L:€ ;2 ,C’ M/ 1C”) r L4 *7 L/
L . 2 I

 




ANIMAL WELFARE LEAGUE INC.

“An Affiliate of The Humane Society of the United States"

September 18, l964

565 Buckey Way,
Sparks, Nevada.

Iﬁrs. Christine Stevens,
Animal ﬁelfare Institute,
22 East 17th Street,

New York 3, N. Y.

Dear ﬁrs. Stevens:

This organization is pioneering a basic
educational pregram in seven of the elementary schools
in this area. In order that we may present the best
and most effective material, I am wondering if your
organization would be able to make some suggestions to
us as a result of your own experience in this field.
Also, do you have any educational material that would be
of help to us? Believe me, we would appreciate anything
that you can send our way.

Very sincerely yours,

an

(ﬁrs.) Violet Carlson, Chairman,
Educational Committee,

Animal Welfare League, Inc.,
565 Buckey Ray,

Sparks, Nevada.

 




HENRY M. JACKSON, WASH., CHAIRMAN

CLINTON P. ANDERSON, N. MEX. THOMAS H. KUCHEL, CALIF.
ALAN BIBLE, NEV. GORDON ALLOTT, COLO.
FRANK CHURCH, IDAHO LEN B. JORDON, IDAHO
ERNEST GRUENING, ALASKA MILWARD L. SIMPSON, WYO.
FRANK E. MOSS, UTAH E. L. MECHEM, N. MEX.

2x::T;:YIEEiLIRADRIfzK-, N. DAK. PETER H. DOMINICK, COLO. g cngfeb $£aie$ $ena£c

GEORGE MC GOVERN. s. DAK.
GAYLORD NELSON, WIS. COMMITTEE ON

HERBERT s. WALTERS, TENN. INTERIOR AND INSULAR AFFAIRS

JERRY T. VERKLER, STAFF DIRECTOR
August 19 , 1964

Mrs . Helen Moffitt
633 North Grant
Pocatello, Idaho

Dear Mrs . Moffitt:

Your letter of thanks for my efforts on behalf. of H. R. 1839 is very
much appreciated. I am glad that I was of some assistance . 9

The likelihood that the Clark-Neuberger bill, S . 533, will receive
any consideration by the Senate Labor and Public Welfare Committee
is slight this year. On January 30, 1963, reports were requested on
this bill from the Department of Health, Education and Welfare and
the Bureau of the Budget. As of this date, they have not been sub—
mitted . Until these reports are received no formal action will be
taken by the Chairman of the Committee unless one of the sponsors of
the bill brings pressure to have their bill considered. Apparently nei—
ther Senator Neuberger nor Senator Clark have exerted such pressure .

While I have not fully studied all the provisions of this legislation, I
can assure you that I shall do everything possible to have it heard by
the Labor Committee .

Again, my thanks for your letter.
With best regards , I am

Sincerely yours ,

United States Senator

 




 




WHX "\‘Zﬁ'A ‘ ion“) MML

3Y0 7k§\\rﬁ\ \AMVSLQ “Vofr N '
V MW WW?

Agk‘mﬁdx “‘13) ‘1 \°“\

c: a n r;

CMY‘R’AFH ~

 




um swim

“N a civilization is complete which \dpes not include the dumb
and defenseless of God’s creatures within the sphere of charity
and mercy.”—QUEEN VICTORIA.

SOCIETY FOR ANIMAL PROTECTION

 

President: Mrs. Ann Cough Hunter

3132 Lovers lane, Dallas 25, Texas EM-3-3931

 

BOARD OF DIRECTORS ~1964—65

President:
Mrs. Ann Gough Hunter

First Vice President:
Mr. Wm. B.Ruggles

Second Vice President:
Mrs. W.W.Lynch

Third Vice President:
Mrs. W.C.Pickens

Recording Secretary:
Mrs. D.Newton Taylor

CorreSponding Secretary:
Mrs. James L.Mitchell

Treasurer:
Mrs. A.C.Utterback

Treasurer Shelter Fund:
Mr. De Witt Ray Jr.

Parliamentarian:
Mrs . Frank Bryant J r.

Historian:
Mrs . Sally Oldham

Auditor:
Mr. A.C .Utterback

Mr. E.M. (Ted) Dealey;

Mr. Harrison Del Rose;

Mrs. Shelby McDaniel;

Mrs. O.J.Parrott;

Mrs. Summerfield G.Roberts.

October 1961.
MISSION ACCOMPLISHED

The Society for Animal Protection, in its first illus-
trated brochure, issued in 1959, stated its object-
ives:

"An adequate city animal shelterCPound); a painless
high altitude chamber to displace the obsolete gas
chamber, fed by fumes from city trucks, now used to
destroy surplus animals at the Pound; a humane of-
ficer to care for number-less cruelty complaints."

In December 1959 the Society for Animl Protection
presented the Pound with two high altitude chambers
and paid for their installation. In 1960 the City
built a much better Pound than the old discarded
park building that was being used as a Pound.

In the second brochure, issued in 1960, the Society
stated its objectives:

"A privately supported, non-profit animal shelter for
the benefit of animals from any part of the county.

A humane officer to care for the numberless cruelty
complaints.

An animal ambulance to pick up sick, injured and
strayed animals and transport them to a veterinarian
or a shelter."

NOW, AT LONG LAST, we ARE GOING TO HAVE ALL THESE ‘1‘le .

Work on the shelter, designed for us, gratis, by Mr.
George Dahl, will begin immediately at the beautiful
site, 3816 Overton Road.

 

A beautiful 1965 model Volkswagin panel truck, which
can serve as an ambulance, has been given to us by

Mr. Clarence Talley. Sheriff Bill Decker, with the ap-
proval of the Commissioners Court, will appoint two
deputies to serve as humane officers to investigate
cruelty complaints.

 




  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
 
 
  
    
   
 
  
  
 
  
  
   
   
 
  
    
 
 
  
   

 

THE JOE REICHIvIAN DINNER DANCE

is open to the public, and is the
only time for a year that Mr.
Reichman will make a public ap-
pearance

Now is the time to dance to the
music of the incomparable Joe
Reichman; enjoy a wonderful dinner;
repay social obligations by in
viting guests; help a worthy cause,
and get the price of your tickets de-
ducted from income taxes.

****

Patronesses are: Mmes. McDaniel, WM.
Lynch, O.J.Parrott, W.C.Pickens, Cecil

Green, Harold Volk, J .C.Fortune, De
Leach Martin Sr., W.C.McCord, Troy
Post, Frank E.Austin Jr., Roland Bond,
Sam Ellsberry. W.D.De Sanders, Wayne
Hensley, Ben Irby, Cary C.Maguire,
Joe Lambert, Ann Cough Hunter, Clint
Murchison Jr., William A.McKenzie,
James A.Purse, Summerfield G.Roberts,
Theodore H.8trauss, Mrs. Robert H.
43811“ NewsStaﬂPhotO- Stewart lll, Eugene Bragg Smith, Wm.

O'Donnell° and Misses Patricia Ann
Joe Reichman, right, received the Humanitarian of.the Year Lubben and Elsa von Seggern.
Award from the Society for Animal Protection pres1dent
Mrs. Ann Cough Hunter. George L.Dahl was cited for " ex-
traordinary gifts and services." John Lee, photographer, Cocktails at 7; Dinner at 8,

received a bronze plaque, as an Honorary Life Member, Black tie. Tickets at $10 per
and Sheriff Bill Decker was cited for his earnest ef- person may be obtained from Mrs.
forts to enforce humane laws. The event was the annual McDaniel, LA-l-3326 or 11-1.2045.
Awards Luncheon last May. Mr. Dahl is on the left.

Or from any of the patronesses. Or,

better still, draw your check to
the Society for Animal Protection

JOE REICMN DINNER DANCE and mail to Mrs. McDaniel, 3501»

A Trebly Rewarding Event Princeton, along with the filled

 

n below.

The evening of Tuesday, Oct. 13th will be ”*5 °°“P°

trebly rewarding to those who participate in V
the Joe Reichman Dinner Dance at the Brook Enclosed is my check to the Society for
Hollow Golf Club. Mr. Reichman is furnishing t‘ kets
the music with his full orchestra as a gift Animl Protection for ___________ 1°

for the benefit of the shelter~maintenance D‘ er
fund of the Society for Animal Protection. at $10.00 each for the Benefit inn
The Buster Cooper Dancers will perform Dance at the Brook Hollow Golf Club:

during dinner, a seated affair.

Tuesday, Oct. 13th, 1964
Mrs. Shelby McDaniel, chairman, and her

 

committee have promised a gala, glamorous (Signed)
evening. The lavish dinner includes:
Shrimp Arnaud on shredded lettuce; Beef Total amt.

Chateaubriand; Potatoes 9. la Provincial;
Asparagus with Hollandaise sauce; Rolls;

Ice cream with cocoanut balls and choci-
late sauce; coffee.

 

 

 




 

 

 

Clarence C.Talley has presented the Society for.Animal Protection
with a 1965 Volkswagen panel truck to use at the.Animal.Shelter
as an ambulance to transport wounded animal.to the shelter, and
also to pick up animals that need help.

Mr. Talley, left, has planned to have the name of the Society
painted on the sides. The truck will be on View at the ground
breaking ceremonies, Friday, Oct. 2 at 2:30 o'clock..All members,
friends, and donors of the Society for Animal Protection are
invited to be present.

REMEMBER THE DETE OF THE GROUND BREAKING.KT 3816 OWERTON ROAD,
just off South-central.Expresswayh- FRIDAY, OCTOBER 2, at
2:30 o'CLOCK.

 




PLEASE! ! I

The nonpprofit, privately operated animal shelter,

for which we have worked so long- against indifference

and in some cases, active Opposition, will soon be
a reality. But that is not the end of our work.‘The
defenseless creatures within our walls are our re-
eponsibilityt'We must maintain the shelter.

'We must buy food, utilities, medicine, pay kennel
men and clerical help, finance utilities, etc.
We must have a permanent source of income.

Now we have the Little Flea Market, a glorified
rummage sale, at 3711 Oak Lawn, the building
loaned to us by Life Member, Miss Elsa von Seggern.
There our faithful staff, Mrs. C.F.Burch and Mrs.
Joe Miller, work all day every Saturday, in heat
or cold, selling any merchandise they can get
their hands on.

Just now the cupboard is almost bare! You.may
be planning to move- lots of things may come to
light that you do not sent to take with you. You
may be cleaning out your closets for the winter.
In any event, if you have anything you do not
want-- furniture, bric-a-brac, clothing, costume
jewelry, draperies, kitchen utensils—- anything,
please call Mrs. Burch, DA—lr9743 or Mrs. Miller,
IA-6-7053, oriMrs. Hunter, and the
merchandise will be picked up.

All contributions are income-tax deductible
We will furnish a list of your contributions

for your income tax deductions and will place
your valuation on each article. We are grate-
ful for anything you do for us, and those

who cannot speak, show gratitude, too.

Societ

Animal Protection

3132 Lovers Lane
Dallas, Texas

The Little

***********

Flea Market is open

every Saturday from 10 a.m. to

4 p.m.
come.

B—Section 3

11 Oak Lawn. Y'all

#«lI-it-if-X-‘ll-ﬁ'lﬁ’r

Ellie ﬂailing warning Nuns

Dallas After Dark

By TONY zorpr

C. Handy wrote
Blues.”

MUTUAL FRIENDS, just back
from Memphis, say Joe Reichman
is the biggest musical news to
hit that Tennessee city since W.
“Beale St.

“They turned away more than

100 people the night we saw him

at the Rivermont Club.”
22‘: of Dallas’
'trons.

said one-
leading society ma-
“They applauded every

number and refused to let him
leave when the dance was over.”

Another report told of still an-

ulother turnaway crowd and the

Joe Reichman . .
love him in Memphis.

; leaveﬂ’
formant.

.'They_

Ifact that Reichman’ 5 original en-

3; gagement had been extended a
few more weeks by the River-
mont management.

“They don’t want to let him
said our Memphis in-

But leave he must. Joe has
lined up some of the brightest
society functions of the Dallas
season. He will be back in town
, in a couple of weeks.

 

 

 

 




109
New Medical Beeks
published in the

last six months

DJohn Agate — THE PRACTICE OF GERIA-
TRICS. 500 pp., 21 11., $10.50

[I John A. Aita - NEUROLOGIC MANIFESTA-
TIONS OF GENERAL DISEASES. 936 pp.,
$24.50

I] RudolfAltschul - NIACIN IN VASCULAR DIS-
ORDERS AND HYPERLIPEMIA. 320 pp., 91
11., $11.00

[:1 THE AMERICAN JOURNAL OF ROENTGEN-
OLOGY, RADIUM THERAPY AND NUCLEAR
MEDICINE. Official Organ of The American
Roentgen Ray Society and The American Radium
Society -- CONSOLIDATED INDICES: Volume VI
(1958-1962), $23.50 I

[:I Orlando J. Andy and Heinz Stephan - THE
SEPTUM OF THE CAT. 96 pp., 53 il., $6.75

[3 Werner Bab — THE USES OF PSYCHOLOGY
IN GERIATRIC OPHTHALMOLOGY. 104 pp.,
$5.00

[:1 B. H. Bass — PULMONARY FUNCTION IN
CLINICAL MEDICINE. 80 pp., 27 11., (Amer.
Lec. Living Chemistry), $4.75

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

D Jerome E. Bates and Edward S. Zawadzki -
CRIMINAL ABORTION: A Study in Medical

Sociology. 264 pp., $8.50
[I Larry Alan Bear - LAW, MEDICINE, SCIENCE

 

 

--AND JUSTICE. 656 pp., 3811., $14.50

C] Samuel L. Beranbaum and Phillip H. Meyers -
SPECIAL PROCEDURES IN ROENTGEN
DIAGNOSIS. 628 pp. (7 x 10), (Amer. Lec.
Roentgen Diagnosis), $21.75

James E. Birren-RELATIONS OF DEVELOP-
MENT AND AGING. 308 pp., 59 i1., (Amer.
Lec. Geriatrics and Gerontology), $9.50

ES. T. Boen — PERITONEAL DIALYSIS IN
CLINICAL MEDICINE. 144 pp., 76 11., (Amer.
Lec. Living Chemistry), $6.75

D Beulah C. Bosselman — NEUROSIS AND PSY-
CHOSIS. 3rd Ed., 216 pp., $6.50

D Bertram A. Bradlow - How TO PRODUCE A
READABLE ELECTROCARDIOGRAM. 208 pp.,
239 11., $8.50

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

[j H. Ivan Brown - LECTURES FOR MEDICAL
TECHNOLOGISTS. 660 pp. (7 x 10), 285 11., 33
tables, $19.50

A. Catsch - RADIOACTIVE METAL MOBILIZA—
TION IN MEDICINE. 184 pp., 46 il., (Amer.
Lec. Living Chemistry), $7.50

R. D. Catterall- VENEROLOGY FOR NURSES:
A Textbook of The Sexually Transmitted Dis-
eases. 160 pp., 49 i1., $3.50

Eli Rush Crews - A PRACTICAL MANUAL
FOR THE TREATMENT OF BURNS. 136 pp.,
7 il. (5 plates in full color), $6.75

[:1 Carl H. Delacato — THE DIAGNOSIS AND
TREATMENT OF SPEECH AND READING
PROBLEMS. 3rd Ptg., 200 pp., 26 11., $6.75

D Carl H. Delacato — THE TREATMENT AND
PREVENTION OF READING PROBLEMS: The
‘Neuro-Psychological Approach. 3rd Ptg., 136
pp., 13 il., $4.75

DJ. E. Eastoe and A. Courts - PRACTICAL
ANALYTICAL METHODS FOR CONNECTIVE
TISSUE PROTEINS. 160 pp., 13 11., $8.50

 

 

 

 

D Robert L. Epps and Lee D. Hanes - DAY CARE
OF PSYCHIATRIC PATIENTS. 200 pp., 14
tables, $7.50

[:1 Lewis E. Etter - ATLAS OF ROENTGEN
ANATOMY OF THE SKULL. 2nd Ptg., 2.32
pp. (8 1/2. x11), 23911., $18.50

I] Harold Feil - CORONARY HEART DISEASE: A

 

Personal, Clinical Study. 160 pp., 2 il., 64
tables, (Amer. Lec. Circulation), $6.50

 

CHARLES c THOMAS . PUBLISHER were... SPRINGFIELD . ILLINOIS

-5...

 




  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

E] B. E. Finch and Hugh Green — CONTRACEP-
TION THROUGH THE AGES. 178 pp., 22 i1.,
$5.00

 

 

D Wilfred J. Finegold - ARTIFICIAL INSEMINA-
TION. 132 pp., $5.75

DMartin Fischer - GRACIAN’S MANUAL: A

 

 

Truth-telling Manual and the Art of Worldly
Wisdom. 2nd Ed., 5th Ptg., 324 pp. (in2colors),
$4.50

1:) Edrita Fried - ARTISTIC PRODUCTIVITY AND

 

MENTAL HEALTH. 186 pp., (Amer. Lec. Psy-
chology), $6.50

 

[j H. M. Frost - MATHEMATICAL ELEMENTS
OF LAMELLAR BONE REMODELLING. 140
pp., 45 i1., (Henry Ford Hospital Surgical Mono-
graph), $6.75

 

 

[j H. M. Frost — THE LAWS OF BONE STRUC-
TURE. 184 pp., 83 i1., (Henry Ford Hospital
Surgical Monograph), $7.50

E) Arthur Fuchs — PRINCIPLES OF RADIOGRA-
PHIC EXPOSURE AND PROCESSING. 2nd Ed.,
2nd Ptg., 300 pp. (7 X 10), 600 il., $10.50

C] Warren K. Garlington and Helen E. Shimota —
STATISTICALLY SPEAKING. 120 pp., 48 il.,
$5.50

I] Malinda Dean Garton — TEACHING THE EDU-

 

CABLE MENTALLY RETARDED— — PRACTICAL

METHODS. 2nd Ed., 312 pp., 172 i1., $8.50

[:1 Norman Gekoski - PSYCHOLOGICAL TEST-
ING: Theory, Interpretation, and Practices. 320
pp., 6211., $8.50

[3 John Curtis Gowan and George D. Demos - THE

EDUCATION AND GUIDANCE OF THE
ABLEST. 528 pp., 1 i1., $14.50

[:1 Laman A. Gray - DYSPLASIA, CARCINOMA

 

 

IN SITU AND MICRO—INVASIVE CARCINOMA
OF THE CERVIX UTERI. 464 pp. (7 x 10), 325
il. (14 in full color), $22.50

 

E Richard J. Greenwood and David Finkelstein —
SINO-ATRIAL HEART BLOCK. 104 pp., 24 i1.,
(Amer. Lec. Circulation), $4.50

1:) Lee A. Hadley - ANATOMICO-ROENTGENO-
GRAPHIC STUDIES OF THE SPINE. 560 pp,
(7 x 10), 644 11., $26.00

[3 James D. Hardy - PHYSIOLOGICAL PROB—
LEMS IN SPACE EXPLORATION. 344pp., 1710
i1., (Amer. Lec. Physiology), $12.50

 

 

 

Dcnitord F. Hawkins - DISEASES OF THE
ALIMENTARY TRACT. 428 pp., 60 i1., $12.00

 

 

E) Elizabeth L. Hazen and Frank Curtis Reed -
LABORATORY IDENTIFICATION OF PATHO-
GENIC FUNGI SIMPLIFIED. 2nd Ed.,2nd Ptg.,
164 pp. (7 x 10), 162 i1., (Amer. Lec. Tests and
Techniques), $7.50

 

[j A. L. Hodgkin — THE CONDUCTION OF THE
NERVOUS IMPULSE. 108 pp., 62 il., $5.50

 

E] Reginald Hooper _ NEUROSURGICAL NURS-
ING. 248 pp., . 339 i1., $10.50

 

[:1 M. C. G. Israels - DIAGNOSIS AND TREAT-
MENT OF BLOOD DISEASES. 224 pp., (22
plates in full color), $7.25

 

E] Ruth Jackson — THE CERVICAL SYNDROME.
2nd Ed., 2nd Ptg., 208 pp., 82 il. (1 in full
color), (Amer. Lec. Orthopaedic Surgery), $7.00

 

[:1 Ernst Jokl - WHAT IS SPORTSMEDICINE? 96
pp., (Amer. Lec. Sportsmedicine), $4.75

E] Ernst Jokl - MEDICAL SOCIOLOGY AND
CULTURAL ANTHROPOLOGY OF SPORT AND
PHYSICAL EDUCATION. 176 pp., 42 i1., 24
tables, (Amer. Lec. Sportsmedicine), $7.50

E) Ernst Jokl - THE SCOPE OF EXERCISE IN
REHABILITATION. 144 pp., 77 i1., 3 tables,
(Amer. Lec. Sportsmedicine), $5.75

 

 

 

E] Ernst Jokl — NUTRITION, EXERCISE AND
BODY COMPOSITION. 128 pp., 131 i1., (Amer.
Lec. Sportsmedicine), $5.75

E) Ernst Jokl - PHYSIOLOGY OF EXERCISE. 128
PP-a 55 11-, (Amer. Lec. Sportsmedicine), $6.50

 

E] Ernst Jokl — HEART AND SPORT. 120 pp., 31
il., (Amer. Lec. Sportsmedicine), $6.00

I] Elvin A. Kabat - Kabat and Mayer’s EXPER_I_-_
MNTAL IMMUNOCHEMISTRY. 2nd Ed., 2nd
Ptg., 920 pp. (7 x 10), 458 11., $26.50

C] Solomon A. Kaplan — GROWTH DISORDERS__I§__
inILDREN AND ADOLESCENTS. 224 pp..180
11-, (Amer. Lec. Living Chemistry), $8.50

 

[:1 Robert Ke11ner - LAMILY ILL HEALTH: A};
ﬂesﬁgation in General Practice. 124 pp., 354-50

 

 

CHARLES C THOMAS a PUBLISHER 301-327 EAST LAWRENCE AVENUE SPRINGHELD o |LL|NO|S

  

 

 
 
 

 

   




 

  

 

 

 

 

 

I] So1 Ad1er _ THE NON—VERBAL CHILD. About

 

144 pp., 2 il.

[:ISOlomon N. Albert, Sumer Chand Jain, JO
Shibuya, and Chalom A. Albert - THE HEMA-
TOCRIT IN CLINICAL PRACTICE. About 120
pp., (Amer. Lec. Anesthesiology)

 

E] Nils Alwall - THERAPEUTIC AND DIAG-
NOSTIC PROBLEMS IN SEVERE RENAL
FAILURE. 762 pp. (6 3/4x91/2), 279 i1.,
about $55.00

1:) American College of Chest Physicians - CLINI—
CAL. ELECTROCARDIOGRAMS. (Edited by
Stephen R. Elek). About 196 pp. (7 X 10), about
1,550 i1.

E William E. Amos and Raymond L. Manella -
READINGS IN THE ADMINISTRATION OF IN-
STITUTIONS FOR DELINQUENT YOUTH.
About 320 pp., 7 i1.

E) James C. Anderson — HYDRONEPHROSIS. 102
pp., 26 i1., about $5.00

1:) J. R. Armstrong and W. E. Tucker — INJURY
IN SPORT. 606 pp., 130 i1.,~about $25.00

[:1 Christian Astrup- PAVLOVIAN PSYCHIATRY:
A New Synthesis. About 120 pp., (Amer. Lec.
Objective Psychiatry)

 

 

 

 

 

[j Zenon M. Bacq — CHEMICAL PROTECTION
AGAINST IONIZING RADIATION. About 344 pp.,
about 100 i1., (Amer. Lec. Living Chemistry)

I] Dominick A. Barbara — NEW DIRECTIONS IN
STUTTERING: Theory and Practice. About 192
pp., 6 i1., 8 tables, (Amer. Lec. Communication)

DBarrow Neurological Institute - HORIZONS_

IN NEUROLOGICAL EDUCATION AND RE—
SEARCH. About 196 pp., 78 i1., 2 tables

I] C1ois W. Bennett - CLINICAL SEROLOGY.
About 320 pp., 35 i1.

E) Arthur BObrOff — ACNE: And Related Disorders
of Complexion and Scalp; About 136 pp., 6 i1.

 

[:1 Clinton C. Brown and George N. Webb -_I_N_-_
STRUMENTATION WITH SEMICONDUCTORS:
For Medical Researchers. About 290 pp., (Amer.
Lec. Objective Psychiatry)

E] Norman L. Browse - THE PHYSIOLOGY AND

PATHOLOGY OF BED REST. About 344 pp.,
61 11. '

 

CHARLES C THOMAS 0 PUBLISHER 301,327 EAST LAWRENCE AVENUE SPRINGFIELD 0 ILLINOIS

 
 

129 New Medical looks
to he uhlished in
the next six manths

[:1 Andre J. Bruwer — CLASSIC DESCRIPTIONS
IN DIAGNOSTIC ROENTGENOLOCYI About
2,250 pp. (7 x 10), about 1,404 figs.

[:1 Buford H. Burch and Arthur C. Mi11er — ATLAS
OF PULMONARY RESECTIONS. About 108

PP-

E] Edmund H. Burrows — URETHRAL LESIONS IN
INFANCY AND CHILDHOOD: Studied by Mictu-
rition Cysto—Urethrography. About 210 pp.,
about 122 i1.

D Malcolm E. Cameron -PTERYGIUM THROUGH-
OUT THE WORLD. About 220 pp., about 112
i1.

[:1 Charles H. Carter - MEDICAL ASPECTS OF
MENTAL RETARDATION. About 1,072 pp.,
251 11.

E] David G. Cogan — NEUROLOGY OF THE
VISUAL SYSTEM.

[3 Macdonald Critchley _ DEV ELOPMEN TA L
DYSLEXIA. 116 pp., 36 i1., about $5.00

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1:) Lionel Crocker and PaulA. Carmack - READ—
INGS IN RHETORIC. About 544 pp.

 

[:1 Katharina Dalton - THE PREMENSTRUAL
SYNDROME. About 112 pp., 48 i1., 8 tab1es,
about $5.00

D Eugene D. Day - THE IMMUNOCHEMISTRY
OF CANCER. About 188 pp., 5 i1., (Amer. Lec.
Living Chemistry)

[:ICarl H. Delacato — THE ELEMENTARY
SCHOOL OF THE FUTURE. About 128 pp.,

[jSte hen B. Dewin —RADIOTHERAPY OF
p g
BENIGN DISEASE. About 252 pp.

[1 Bernard Diamond — THE OBSTRUCTING AC-
ROMION: Underlying Diseases, Clinical De-
velopment, and Surgery._About 236 pp., 97 figs.

[1 Robert L. Egan - MAMMOGRAPHY. About 366
pp. (81/2 x11), about 302 figs., (Amer. Lec.
Roentgen Diagnosis)

[3 Robert R. Eggen — CHROMOSOME DIAG-
NOSTICS IN CLINICAL MEDICINE. About 400
pp., 46 figs., (Amer. Lec. Living Chemistry)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

D Lewis E. Etter - ROENTGENOGRAPHY AND
ROENTGENOLOGY OF THE MIDDLE EAR
AND MASTOID PROCESS. About 144 pp. (8 1/2
X11),120 figs.

E] Lewis E. Etter — THE SCIENCE OF IONIZING
RADIATION: Modes of Application. About 1,088
pp. (7 x 10), 224 figs., 29 tables

 

 

_ ‘7,A m— M M“; L i _. __
. ,WW

» “yam—L ,

  




 

 

 

PAG E 4

[I Jack H. Prince - THE RABBIT IN EYE RE-
SEARCH. About 680 pp., 186 figs., 50 tables

I] A. J. Harding Rains - GALLSTONES: Causes
and Treatment. About 196 pp. , 77 11., about $8.50

[3 Roger Reger — SCHOOL PSYCHOLOGY. About
276 pp., 2 il.

DJohn P. Reidy — ZONE MENTAL HEALTH

 

 

 

CENTERS: The Illinois Concept. About 170 pp.,
29 11., 11 tables

I] Curt Pau1 Richter — BIOLOGICAL CLOCKS IN

 

MEDICINE AND PSYCHIATRY. About 176 pp.,
102 figs., (Salmon Lecture)

E] Jerome M. Schneck — THE PRINCIPLES AND
PRACTICE OF HYPNOANALYSIS. About 288

PP-

[3 Jack Schubert — COPPER AND PEROXIDES
IN RADIOBIOLOGY AND MEDICINE. About
208 pp., 18 i1.

1] Derwyn M. Severy — THE SEVENTH STAFF
AUTOMOTIVE CRASH AND FIELD DEMON-
STRATION CONFERENCE.

 

[:1 Ernst Simonson and Thomas Hodge McGavack —
CEREBRAL ISCHEMIA. About 360 pp., 11711.,
(Amer. Lec. Geriatrics and Gerontology)

[:1 Ralph Slovenko - SEXUAL BEHAVIOR AND
THE LAW. About 1,104 pp., 6 tables

E] J. Lawton Smith - The University of Miami
NEURO—OPHTHALMOLOGY S YM PO S IU M .1
About 502 pp., 141 figs.

[3 E. Durham Smith - SPINA BIFIDA AND THE
TOTAL CARE OF SPINAL MYELOMENIN-
GOCELE. About 256 pp., 117 11., (Pediatric
Surgical Monographs)

 

1:] w. G. smith - ALLERGY AND TISSUE ME-
TABOLISM. 116 pp., 19 11., about $5.50

[:1 Joseph Song - THE HUMAN UTERUS: Mor-
phogenesis and Embryological Basis for Can—
cer. About 234 pp., about 153 B& W 11., 1
color plate

[:1 Myron Teitelbaum — HYPNOSIS INDUCTION

 

TECHNICS. About 244 pp.

[:1 B. S. tenBerge - PREGNANCY: Chemistry and

 

Management. About 394 pp., about 9411., (Amer.
Lec. Living Chemistry)

 

[:1 Samuel Wesley Thompson - SELECTED HIS-
TOCHEMICAL AND HISTOPATHOLOGICAL
METHODS. About 270 pp. (7 X 10), about 401 11.

 

 

[:1 David J. Vai1 - THE BRITISH MENTAL HOS-
PITAL SYSTEM. About 96 pp.

[:1 Vincenzo Valentino — MYELOGRAPHY. About
256 pp. (8 1/2 x 11), 27611. (3 color plates)

[:1 Clyde B. Vedder and Annette S. Lefkowitz -
PROBLEMS OF THE AGED. About 325 pp., 5
tables

[:1 Clyde B. Vedder — PROBLEMS OF THE MID-
DLE AGED. About 184 pp.

[:1 A. W. venabIes — ESSENTIALS OF PAEDIA-
TRIC CARDIOLOGY. About 176 pp., 53 11., 1
table

 

 

 

 

 

(:I Rudolf Volker - CARDIAC AND VASCULAR
DISORDERS: Differential Diagnosis by New
Physiological Techniques. 2nd Ed., about 288
pp., 100 figs.

[3 Odon F. von Werssowetz - PARKINSONISM:
Aspects of Physical Treatment. About 104 pp.,
about 10 11.

[:IWilliam H. Wehrmacher — PAIN IN THE
CHEST. About 736 pp., 77 figs.

DA. T. Welford and James E. Birren — BE-
HAVIOR, AGING, AND THE NERVOUS SYS-
TEM: Biological Determinants of Speed of Be—
havior and Its Changes with Age. About 740 pp.,
240 11.

 

I] Edith Whetnall and D. B. Fry - THE DEAF
CHILD. 246 pp., 62 11., about $8.50

 

D Roy DeVerl Willey and Kathleen Barnette Waite
- THE MENTALLY RETARDED CHILD: Iden—

tification, Acceptance, and Curriculum. About
256 pp.

E] Ernst Ziegler — THE REDOX POTENTIAL OF
THE BLOOD IN VIVO AND IN VITRO. About
248 pp., 66 11., 81 tables, (Amer. Lec. Bio-
chemistry and Biophysics)

DHenry A. Zimmerman — INTRAVASCULAR
CATHETERIZATION. 2nd Ed., about 325 pp.,
1,081 i1.

 

 

 

 

 

CHARLES C THOMAS 0 PUBLISHER sol-327 EAST LAWRENCE AVENUE SPRINGFIELD '9 ILLINOIS

Check the titles you want sent on ten days free inspection approval (on approval in U.S.A. and

Canada only). You may send a remittance within thirty days after receipt of the books.

name addres s

 

city s ta te

“\NT;
9 IN 0
us»

 

zip code

 

 

 

 




 

 

PAGE 3

[:1 Jacob Kulowski - ACCIDENT INJURIES OF
THE CONJOINED FEMUR: Clinical and Para-
clinical Aspects of Automotive and Comparable
Injuries of the Hip, Femur and Knee. 312 pp.,
503 il., $12.50

 

 

[:1 S. H. Lawrence - THE ZYMOGRAM IN CLINI-
CAL MEDICINE. 124 pp., 33 il., (Amer. Lec.
Living Chemistry), $5.75

DMurray Levine and George Spivack - THE
RORSCHACH INDEX OF REPRESSIVE STYLE.
180 pp., 25 tables, (Amer. Lec. Psychology),
$7.50

E Arnold Lieberman — CASE CAPSULES: The
Droll,, Diverting, Devilish, Definitely Different.
356 pp., 14511., $9.50

 

 

D John Lind, Leo Stern and Carl Wegelius — _I__-_I_I_J_:
MAN FOETAL AND NEONATAL CIRCULA-
219N— 68 pp. (7x10), 109 il., (Amer. Lec.
Pediatrics), $5.75

[:1 Richard W. Lippman — URINE AND THE URI-
NARY SEDIMENT: A Practical Manual and
Atlas. 2nd Ed., 4th Ptg., 152 pp. (7 X 10), 9711.
(92 in full color), $9.50

[:1 Berthold Lowenfeld - OUR BLIND CHILDREN:
Growirgg and Learning with Them. 2nd Ed.,
256 pp., 8 il., $7.00

 

[:1 Carol Lucas — RECREATION IN GERONTOL-
OGY. 192 pp., 35 il., $6.50

[3 Walter A. Lunden _ STATISTICS ON DELIN-
QUENTS AND DELINQUENCY. 320 pp., 87
charts, 158 tables, $11.50

 

 

[:1 Richard A. MacDonald - HEMOCHROMATOSIS
AND HEMOSIDEROSIS. 388 pp., 71 11., $12.75

 

[I Ian R. Mackay and F. Macfarlane Burnet -
AUTOIMMUNE DISEASES: Pathogenesis, Chem-
istry and Therapy. 2nd Ptg., 344 pp., 30 il.,
(Amer. Lec. Living Chemistry), $11.50

UH. W. Magoun _ THE WAKING BRAIN. 2nd
Ed., 2nd Ptg., 196 pp., 158i1., $7.75

1:.) D. H. Malan — A STUDY OF BRIEF PSYCHO—
THERAPY. 326 pp., $6.50

CI John Erskine Malcolm — BLOOD PRESSURE
MDS AND THEIR MEANINGS: Part III: The
Wand the Crystalline Structure of the Body.
76 pp., 36 11., $6.00

[:1 E. M. McInnes - ST. THOMAS’ HOSPITAL.
246 pp., 12 il., $6.50

E] H. C. Meng, John G. Coniglio, V. S. LeQuire,
George V. Mann and Joseph M. Merrill — Pro-
m of an International Symposium on
:IPID TRANSPORT. 280 pp., 55 il., 25 tables,

10.50

 

 

 

 

 

 

m

E] Maurice H. Miller and Ira A. Polisar _ AUDIO-
LOGICAL EVALUATION OF' THE PEDIATRIC
PATIENT. 132 pp., 8 il., (Amer. Lec. Speech
and Hearing), $5.75

D Robert H. Moser - DISEASES OF MEDICAL
PROGRESS: A Contemporary Analysis Of Illness
Produced by Drugs and Other Therapeutic Pro-
cedures. 2nd Ed., 572 pp., $19.75

[:1 Hugh Mullanand Iris Sangiuliano — THE THERA-
PIST’S CONTRIBUTION TO THE TREATMENT
PROCESS: His Person, Transactions, and
Treatment Method_S_._‘ 300 pp., 1 il., $8.50

 

[j E. G. Murphy — THE CHEMISTRY AND
THERAPY OF DISORDERS OF VOLUNTARY
MUSCLES. 140 pp., 1611., (Amer. Lec. Living
Chemistry), $6.50

 

[:1 Hideo Nishimura — CHEMISTRY AND PRE-
VENTION OF CONGENITAL ANOMALIES.

132 pp., 16 il., (Amer. Lec. Living Chemistry),
$5.75

I] S1r Heneage Ogilvie - THE TIRED BUSINESS

 

MAN. 104 pp., $4.75

[:1 James Ohnysty - AIDS To ETHICS AND PRO-
FESSIONAL CONDUCT FOR STUDENT RA-
DIOLOGIC TECHNOLOGISTS. 144 pp., 1 11.,
$3.75

I] Alexander I. Oparin — THE CHEMICAL ORIGIN
OF LIFE. 152 pp., 33 il., (Amer. Lec. Living
Chemistry), $6.75

 

 

 

E] Irvin M. Peithmann — RED MEN OF FIRE: A

 

History of the Cherokee, Indians. 184 pp., 52
il., $6.50

[I Maurice L. Perou — CRANIAL HYPEROSTOSIS
(Hyperostosis Cranii or H. C.). 176 pp., 86 i1.
(6 in full color), $7.50

[1 Laurence W. Piller — MANUAL OF CARDIO-
PULMONARY TECHNOLOGY. 300 pp., 180 11.,
$13.50

B Henry L. Price and Peter J. Cohen - EFFECTS
OF ANESTHETICS ON THE CIRCULATION.
308 pp., 13 tables, $10.50

 

 

 

I] F. T. G. Prunty - CHEMISTRY AND TREAT-
MENT OF ADRENOCORTICAL DISEASES.
218 pp., 99 il., (Amer. Lec. Living Chemistry),
$14.00

[:1 Nicolas Rashevsky - SOME MEDICAL ASPECTS
OF MATHEMATICAL BIOLOGY. 342pp., 6011.,
31 tables, (Amer. Lec. Living Chemistry), $1 2.75

CHARLES C THOMAS 0 PUBLISHER 30m? EAST LAWRENCE AVENUE SPRINGFIELD 0 ILLINOIS

 




PAGE 4

[3 Eugene Rosenman - AN OUTLINE OF PUL—
MONARY FUNCTION AND PULMONARY
EMPHYSEMA. 152 pp., 35 11., $6.50

I] Guelfo Sani, Ugo Citti and Giulaiano Caramazza
- FLUORESCENCE MICROSCOPY IN THE
CYTODIAGNOSIS OF CANCER. 212 pp. (8 1/2
x 11), 34 i1., 191 il. (in full color), $27.50

C] Bernard G. Sarnat — THE TEMPOROMANDI-
BULAR JOINT. 2nd Ed., 284 pp. (7 x 10), 249
11., $12.50

Israel Scheffler - THE LANGUAGE OF EDU—
CATION. 3rd Ptg., 128 pp., (Amer. Lec. Phi—
losophy), $5.50

Otto H. Schmitt and Cesar A. Caceres -
ELECTRONIC AND COMPUTER-ASSISTED
STUDIES OF BIO—MEDICAL PROBLEMS. 344
pp., $12.50

Delwyn G. Schubert -A DICTIONARY OF
TERMS AND CONCEPTS IN READING. 320
pp., $6.00

Jerome L. Schulman, Joseph C. Kaspar and
Patricia M. Barger - THE THERAPEUTIC
DIALOGUE. 172 pp., $6.50

D Joseph Selman _ THE FUNDAMENTALS OF
X-RAY AND RADIUM PHYSICS. 3rd Ed., 4th
Ptg., 384 pp., 30511., 9 tables, $9.50

[:1 Albert P. Seltzer - EAR, NOSE AND THROAT
FOR THE GENERAL PRACTITIONER. 244 pp.,
$7.75

DR. Eustace Semmes - RUPTURES OF THE
LUMBAR INTERVERTEBRAL DISC: Their

Mechanism, Diagnosis, and Treatment. 96 pp.
(7 X 10), 52. i1., $6.00

(:1 Marcus Singer and Paul I. Yakovlev — THE
HUMAN BRAIN IN SAGITTAL SECTION. 2nd
Ptg., 96 pp. (12 x 9), 46 i1., $8.00

[:1 R. H. Smythe - HORSES IN ACTION: A Study
of Conformation, Movement and the Causes of
Spinal Stress. 148 pp., 76 B & W i1., 3 2-color
plates, $5.00

[I Alfred Soffer, Herta Spencer, Martin Rubin,
Maynard B. Chenoweth, Gunther L. Eichhorn
and Betty Rosoff - CHELATION THERAPY. 176
pp., 90 i1., $8.00

[3 John D. Steele - THE SOLITARY PULMONARY
NODULE. 236 pp. (7 x 10), 221 11., 37 tables,
(The John Alexander Monograph Series), $12.00

John D. Steele — THE TREATMENT OF MY—
COTIC AND PARASITIC DISEASES OF THE
CHEST. 280 pp. (7x10), 161 i1., (The John
Alexander Monograph Series), $14.75

Arthur Steindler - KINESIOLOGY: Of The Human
Body under Normal and Pathological Conditions.
736 pp. (6 1/2 x10), 655 i1., $19.75

C. H. Stuart-Harris and Lois Dickinson - THE
BACKGROUND TO CHEMOTHERAPY OF
VIRUS DISEASES. 188 pp., 9 il., (Amer. Lec.
Living Chemistry), $10.50

Wallace W. Tourtellotte, Armin F. Haerer,
Grant L. Heller and John E. Somers - POST-
LUMBAR PUNCTURE HEADACHES. 132 pp.,
3 i1., $5.50

Manuel Viamonte, Jr., and Raymond E. Parks —
PROGRESS IN ANGIOGRAPHY. 576 pp. (7 x 10),
893 i1., 12 tables, $29.50

I] John Wakefield- CANCER AND PUBLIC EDU-
CATION. 125 pp., 32 11., $5.75

[:1 Elmer W. Weber - HEALTH AND THE SCHOOL
CHILD. 408 pp., 46 i1., 3 charts, 17 tables,
$10.50

[:1 Albert F. Wessen — THE PSYCHIATRIC HOS.-
PITAL AS A SOCIAL SYSTEM. 200 pp., 21
tables, $6.75

[:1 Leon F. Whitney — THE FARM VETERINARIAN.
728 pp., 30611., $17.00

 

E] Leon F. Whitney - DOG PSYCHOLOGY: The
Basis of Dog Training. 354 pp., 50 i1., $10.50

C] Harvey D. Wright - QUESTIONS AND AN-
SWERS IN OPHTHALMOLOGY. 368 pp., (Amer.
Lec. Ophthalmology), $10.75

 

CHARLES C THOMAS 0 PUBLISHER 301-327 EAST LAWRENCE AVENUE SPRINGFIELD 0 ILLINOIS

Check the titles you want sent on ten days free inspection approval (on approval in U.S.A.
and Canada only). You may send a remittance Within thirty days for the ones you decide to
keep. (Orders accompanied by a remittance will be sent post-paid.)

name address

 

 

city state

 

 

 




September, 1964

Among recent developments in the habits of scientists in collecting literature in a
particular field is an increased demand for photocopies. The recent advances in the field
have been thoroughly discussed in two issues of CHEM. & ENGINEERING NEWS (July 13 & 20).
The editorial in the second issue also points out some of the considerations involved in
wholesale copying of copyrighted material. The American Council of Learned Societies has
an interesting report Planning for Scholarly Photocopying published by the Modern Language
Association of America. ~ ‘

The dog installation at the Argonne National Laboratory is described in two short items
under CALLING ATTENTION TO.

(1) Bradley, M. N., A technique for prolonged intra-arterial catheterization. Surg.
Gynecol. Obstet. 119: 116-118, 1964. (2) Anthony, L. U., Goldring, S., O'Leary, J.

L. and Schwartz, H. G., Experimental cerebrovascular occlusion in dog. Arch. Neurol., §§
515—527, 1963. (3) Wang, H., Kauai, T., Markee, S. and Wang, S. C., Effects of reser—
pine and chlorpromazine on the vasomotor center in the medulla oblongata of the dog. J.
Pharmacol. Exp. Therap., 144: 186-195, 1964. (4) Mark, L. C., Brand, L. and Goldensohn,
E. 8., Recovery after procaine—induced seizures in dogs. Electroenceph. clin. Neurophysiol.
16: 280-284, 1964. (5) Oppelt, W. W., Patlak, C. S. and Rall, D. P., Effect of certain
drugs on cerebrospinal fluid production in the dog. Am. J. Physiol., 296: 247-250, 1964-
(6) Doberneck, R. G., Nunn, D. B., Johnson, D. G. and Chun, B. K., Iron metabolism.after
portacaval shunt in dogs. Arch. Surg., §Zz 751-756, 1963. (7) Mchedlishvili, G. 1.,
Akhobadze, V. A. and OrmotsadZe, L. G., Compensation of cerebral circulation during
temporary occlusion of the cranial superior vena cava. Fiziologicheskii Zhurnal SSSR, ﬁﬁ:
#6, 684, 1962. (8) Charlwood, R. H. and Trum, B. F., Acquisition of dogs for biomedical
research. Lab. Animal Care, 14: 226—234, 1964. (9) Ivanov, Yu. N., Changes in elec-
trical activity of different brain regions in cats and dogs exposed to carbon dioxide.
Piziologicheskii Zhurnal SSSR, 4§z #3, 279, 1962. (10) Abboud, F. M. and Eckstein, J.
W., Venous and arterial responses to norepinephrine in dogs treated with reserpine. Am.
J-.Physiol., 296; 299-303, 1964. (ll) Morita, S., Kobayashi, Y. and Ito, Y., A radio-.
autographic study of the synthesis of phosphorus compounds in central nervous tissues of
the dog. J. Neurochem., 11: 125-129, 1964. (12) Fox, M. W., The otocephalic syndrome
in the dog. Cornell Veterinarian, 24: 250-259, 1964. (13) Fox, M. W., The postnatal
growth of the canine brain and correlated anatomical and behavioral changes during neuro~
ontogenesis. Growth, gﬁz 135-141, 1964. (14) Fox, M. W., Effects of pentobarbital on
the EEG of maturing dogs and a review of the literature. Vet. Record, 16: 768-770, 1964.
k**%%k%k**%%ﬁk*k%%%%*k%*****************%****kk**********k***kk********************%**kxx
NEW BOOKS:

Atlas of the Canine Brain, Adrianov and Mering, E. F. Domino (Ed.), In English,

Edwards Brothers, Inc., Ann Arbor, Michigan. 7

Canine Behavior, M. W. Fox, C C Thomas, Springfield, Illinois.
>‘c7’c7'c‘z'c7'c7'nt'z':in vkv'c'svcv'm'c7'::'c:'c~k~kvtv'cw'cv'n'n'cv‘c7':7'c'2'c7'c7':7'n’c7'c7'c'2'cw'c'2':71:72:?72‘7'c7'n'n'c7'n'n‘n':7'c7’n'cv'n'nh'n'n'c7'c7'n':7'cv'c7'n’c7'c9cv'cv'n'c7'n'n’c7'n'cs'n'n'n'c729:9:icv'cvh'cv'c
State of Illinois Galesburg State Research Hospital

Otto Kerner, Governor , . Galesburg, Illinois
Department of Mental Health T. T. Tourlentes, M.D.
Harold M. Visotsky, M.D., Director Superintendent and

’ Director, Zone IV
_ Thudichum Psychiatric Research Laboratory
Harold E. Himwich, M.D., Director ‘ Williamina A. Himwich, Ph.D., Editor

 

 

 




CALLING ATTENTION TO:

"....The Argonne National Laboratory research dogs are presently maintained as a closed
colony with all stock being produced on the project. Adult animals are housed two per
kennel except pregnant females, some breeding males and some experimental animals which
are maintained singly. The individual kennels are 11' x 2.5'. Approximately 1/3 of this
area is inside the kennel wing and 2/3 outside. The inside space is separated from the
outside portion by a partition having both a swinging and a sliding door. White pine
shavings are used as bedding. Routine care consists of cleaning of excretions and soiled
bedding from the kennels daily and mOpping each kennel at least every other day. Self
feeders and automatic waterers are used. The care program also provides for daily obser-
vations of all dogs; distemper-hepatitis vaccinations at 12 weeks of age, 4 months of age,
1 year of age and annually thereafter; routine physical examinations every four months;
routine dental care at 1 year of age and every four months thereafter; stool examinations
for internal parasites at 6 weeks of age, 10 weeks of age, and every 4 months thereafter;
and examination, diagnosis, and appropriate treatment of all observed diseases or abnor-
malities unless prohibited by experimental design. The breeding colony consists of
approximately 50 females and 10 males. Replacement breeders are selected from the progeny
produced. The females are bred at each estrus unless contraindicated by some medial
problem." (C. M. Poole, M.D., Division of Biological and Medical Research, Argonne
National Laboratory, 9700 South Cass Avenue, Argonne, Illinois).

"....I am not really sure how to reply to your letter in which you ask for a half-page
description of our research program and the experimental results of same. I feel that it
would be impossible for me to do either of these areas justice in such a brief statement.

You are apparently aware that we are attempting to do a comprehensive study of the
toxicity and metabolism of selected fission products in dogs. We are interested in both
the acute toxicity of these isotopes and in their chronic effects extending over periods
of many years. As a matter of fact, the dog was chosen as an experimental animal since
it does have an appreciably long life span and is large enough to avoid certain known
difficulties in comparing results to the situation in humans. Furthermore, it offers
opportunities for varied types of experimental observation.

We hope to be able to extend our experimental work with single fission products to
mixtures of more than one of these-—producing conditions under which isotopes are deposited
in different anatomic sites and thus simultaneously irradiate different parts of the body.

As I mentioned earlier we hope to observe these animals comprehensively under carefully
controlled conditions. Dr. Rehfeld, for example, is primarily interested in responses of
the hematopoietic system”. (William P. Norris, Ph.D., Division of Biological and Medical
Research, Argonne National Laboratory, 9700 South Cass Avenue, Argonne, Illinois).
MEETINGS:

VII Symposium Neuroradiologicum, Waldorf Astoria, N.Y. City, Sept. 20-25, 1964.

Animal Care Panel, New York Hilton, Sept. 20-25, 1964.
CHANGE OF ADDRESS:

Dr. Michael W. Fox, an English Veterinarian, has joined the Research Staff of the
Thudichum Psychiatric Research Laboratory, Galesburg State Research Hospital to take charge
of the animal colony and to continue his studies on the postnatal neuroontogeny of the
dog. Prior to this appointment he was at the Jackson Laboratory, Bar Harbor, Maine, on a
postdoctoral fellowship under Dr. J. P. Scott.

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

US In HI! //.
y/w/V
( /./.
\ It- on. //M%AI 1%% 4 -
,V//z,//////,//V ///////l/Ihl It'll” .

O
I

\III

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

"I have heard no bad news." --- Thoreau page 2

coon news from Unexpected- 0ctoberl954 - Vol.1. No.2

: If v

\
\ \\ A Hope'Sawyer Buyukmihci, Editor
\ J” Adams Unexpected Wildlife Refuge
\\\\\\‘ «yl\ \\’,, Franklinville, New Jersey !
axe

f-

PublishediMonthLy, September through June. ‘
Subscription price, 82.25 per year.

 

 

Editorial

Pearl Buck believes that the human heart
is born good. It neither wishes to be
killed nor to kill, and though sometimes
overcome by evil, it never loses its
potential for good.

Circumstances, she says, make us dwarfed
and crippled, like a plant struggling
under a stone. When the stone is removed,
the plant springs up into the light. The
stone must be rolled away, she says, and
can be if enough peOple will act in faith.

Although we have through ignorance mutilated
our environment, and unthinkingly killed
hosts of our fellow animals, we have not
done it through malice. we are under the
heavy stone of superstition and ancient
custom.

Let's roll the stone away and grow
toward the light.

 

W/.,\v1//‘.%

1“

The regard for our fellow creatures which
came naturally to St. Francis of Assisi,
is now reviving on a scientific basis.
”Useless or apparently useless creatures
should also be respected,” says John Sidney
(Frontiers, Feb. 1964). "All living
creatures are entitled to our considers.
tion and our reverence for life. And, as
part of the conservation of this wonderful
world we inherited, we need to develop an
ecological conscience."

BLUEBIRD NEWS
Kentuc

At Bernheim Forest, rangers and
others have placed nest boxes

on the backs of highway direc-
tion signs and in other unusual
places. One afternoon, v.0.
Duncan, The Bluebird Man of
Kentucky, found a big black- gk
snake in a nesting box there. ’9.
The snake, who had presumably' r
devoured five young bluebirds,
could not get back out the
léuinch hole.

 

 

Mr. Duncan lifted the lid and removed the
snake, who was last seen crawling sleepily
off to a nearby brush pile. "These crea-
tures hunt only for food," remarked

IMr. Duncan, "With them it is serious
business. They do not destroy life for
fun."

Missouri

Teamsters Local 688 has taken on a blue-
bird house projeot through their Health
and Medical Camp at Pevely. Adam

McCullough, camp instructor, out the I
house sections and supervised the t
children, who nailed and painted. u

e:
Visconsin 1’
During 1964 one county in‘wisconsin E:

 

launched a project to build and put up
1,000 bluebird nest boxes. Twenty student pr
and 25 adults worked 1,800 hours last

winter. Local individuals, business firms
and clubs donated money and supplies. In
spite of two severe blizzards,
the project was
completed.

3‘35 ’/
\. ;

  

is Ax
/; ,7 ”A, ,.
//—/é‘—/I/;/: / j

 




GOOD NEWS from Unexpected

October 1964

P389 3

 

 

l

 

 

I thank you so very much for the cOpy of
GOOD NEWS you kindly sent me. Indeed I
am delighted and feel privileged to
become a subscriber---and I wish you
success in your new venture.

How I wish we could get humane education
into the regular curriculum of primary
grades. You know how desperately it is
needed. Sweet and sensitive children
grow up to be apathetic adults, indif-
ferent to the needless suffering of all
sorts that we condone---or at least do
nothing or little to mitigate.

4*NW --- Charlotte Parks
7 8; Cape Neddick, Maine

   

“W. N'Mkm 5

Thank you for the magazine. I do enjoy.
it greatly. And naturally I like the
generous sprinkling of drawings. I wish
you good luck with it---as with every-
thing else.

--- Myrlie Miskelly
519 Cedar St., R.D. 3
Millville, N.J.

 

I am enthusiastic about the new publica-
tion. The format is fine. You are on
the right track in being positive and
enthusiastic.

In Texas, and I think in most states,
there is a long-forgotten law that
kindness to animals be taught in the

 

primary grades of the public schools.

t We are doing all we can to bring this

before our schools; and one lack is the

.existence of any appropriate course of

study. Something like GOOD NEWS would
e very useful, though it is really
dapted to the intermediate grades.

--- Charlotte Montgomery
1703 North Street
Nacogdoches, Texas

 

I want GOOD NEWS. I love to read.about animals,
and I am especially glad to see the squirrels
on the cover. Hope you'll sketch some raccoons
later. Our baby raccoons are big, fat, fresh
and I love them. They are completely house-
broken. Even if they're playing somewhere,
they rush to the box when they need it,
usually chirring all the way. - )
/I§/

/ .

Igam sending you my check for one year's sub-
scription to GOOD NEWS, as I want to help along
the good cause.

--- Ida Garner
28 South.Myrtle St.
Vineland, N.J.

I've been pretty busy teaching this past sump
mer---taught for nine weeks in summer camps,
and had over 900 different kids in my classes.
You can bet I put over ideas of conservation
of wild life, and kindness to all animals.

--- Rufus M. Reed

Box 445
Lovely, Kentucky

 

D A Y F O R .A N I MIA L S

OCTOBER 4

World Day for Animals was founded in 1928
by Margaret E. Ford, who died recently at
the age of 92. IMiss Ford dedicated World
Day to the memory of St. Francis of Assisi.
Like him, she dedicated her life to the
cause of animal welfare, ceaselessly
trying to correct conditions which cause
needless suffering.

W O R L D

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

GOOD NEWS from'Unexpected

EVERYDAY
HEROIHE

A female starling
last year lost one
leg, yet raised
two broods of young.
Now she's done it
again. Surviving
winter's cold, she
courageously made

a spring nest and
successfully raised
another family of sleek grey young-
stars. The day after they left in
May, she cleaned house and carried
in new supplies.

  
 

At present in this country, the old
superstition against black still per-
sists. It used to apply to black
cats; it is still applied to black
people and to birds with black
feathers. Open war is waged on
starlings, blackbirds, magpies and
crows.

But things are changing. The
Smithsonian Institution issued a
bulletin praising the sterling as a
beneficial bird. -Starlings feed on
weevils, potato bugs, Japanese beet-
les and caterpillars by the million.
Their long yellow beaks are adept at
searching out the white grubs of the
May Beetle in lawns and fields.

As for crows, anyone who has had a

pet crow knows how lovable they are, and
how valuable they are in pest control.
Did you know that crows eat mice? The
red-winged blackbird's "Okaleeee!" from
a swamp in spring ought to be worth
several mouthfuls of food. and of
course he is busy all summer eating
insects.

In Israel, farmers are including forests
and other wild areas in commercial farm,
lands to shelter the birds which control
insects in their crops. Thoughtful per-
sons in every country are willing for
the birds to share in the crops they
have helped raise.

 

October 1964

page 4
GEORGIA TAKES ACTION

During 1964 Georgia passed a law making it
unlawful for any person to abandon.dogs

or other domestic animals. A dogbstealing
law was amended to increase the penalty for
dog stealing to a maximum of three years
imprisonment, regardless of whether or

not the dog is commercially valuable.

 

NEW YORK WINS OUT

In January a bill was introduced in the
N.Y. state Senate to exempt high school
biology teachers and students frmm the
state anti-cruelty law. Humane organiza-
tions, as well as indignant parents,
swamped the legislators with mail and

the bill was withdrawn.

In April, Senator Thomas Laverne and
Assemblyman S. William Rosenberg introduced
a bill which specifically prohibits the use
of living vertebrate animals in elementary
and secondary schools in any experiments
that would adversely affect the comfort and
health of the animals. This bill won
enthusiastic support from.the humane
organizations and individuals who had
protested the other bill. It was passed.

as
N

CHICAGO EXPERIMENT

In Chicago, Sears Roebuck & Company has
agreed to telecast the Humane Society of
the U.S. color film, "Help at Hand," on TV
station WCIU, which is the same station
showing bullfighting. Thousands of viewers
had protested the bullfights. Now the

HSUS is asking humane-minded viewers who
prefer the new type of program to write to
the station indicating their preference.

:3

 




 

 

GOOD NEWS from Unexpected

October 1964

P389 5

KINDHESS CLUB NOTES

How It Began

Five years ago, Mrs. Hugh

John Flemming, of Canada,

read Dr. Albert Schweitzer's
writings and was struck with

the beauty of his philosophy

of reverence for all life. She
decided to £2 something about it.

"I started the Kindness Club for children

because I felt so deeply the need for
humane education," says Mrs. Flemming.
"We get so little of it in our schools
and churches, and my experience with
children has taught me that it should
be the basis for development of good
citizens and happy people---a proven
deterrent to juvenile delinquency.

"The idea has spread far and wide.
Children love animals and really want
to learn how to be kind to them and to
people. They get the kindness habit.
It is quite wonderful what can come of
so simple an idea. The positive
approach to the prevention of cruelty."

////: %\ :W/«g WW4

What Is Humane Education?

Its purpose is to arouse man's noblest
impulses. It is a way of life---one
advocated by all the great religions of
the world, associated with goodness and
mercy, justice and compassion, with
high moral standards and the building
of strong character.

The Kindness Club, a dynamic group of
children and grownups, is one vehicle
for the humane education of children.
Grownups in the Club have the task of
discovering and passing on to children
experiences in kindness and mercy and
compassion that will become for them
habitual ways of thought and conduct.

 

Famous President

Dr. Albert Schweitzer, world—
famous humanitarian, at the
request of Mrs. Flemming became

HOnorary President of the Kindness
Club. In his letter accepting
the position, Dr. Schweitzer
wrote: "I dared affirm that true
goodness requires us to respect the
lives of all creatures, and I was fortunate
in having this idea of reverence for life
approved by men of all nations and of seeing
an immediate start in its teaching to children
in the schools.

"The pages that you sent me tell me that you
also are seized with this idea. I am greatly
impressed by your letter. I am profoundly
moved, because we aspire to a new humanity.”

    

How It Grows \é,

Bill Monro of Sydney, Australia, heard about
the Kindness Club through Lady Dowding of
England. Over his national radio program,

he has organized an Australian Kindness Club
of the Air, which now has thousands of members.

Another affiliate of the Kindness Club is
the Humane Education Institute of Africa,
whose founder’and director is Mrs. Isobel
Slater. Mrs. Slater has worked for many
years to save African animals from cruelty
and extinction.

In the U.S., several Kindness Clubs have been
formed. One is the Good Kind Lions of
Columbus, Ohio. Among their projects to
help animals are: Making out handbills tell-
ing about the Kindness Club and how to adopt
animals from the Columbus Humane Society;
holding a pet show and donating the proceeds
to the dog pound; having a bake sale and
walking neighborhood dogs to raise money;
visiting the pet shops and the dog pound.

 

PLEDGE OF THE KINDNESS CLUB
"I promise to be kind to animals (as well as people) and to speak and act in defense of

all living creatures."

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

GOOD NEWS from Unexpected

%0 "
. me

A CHILD SHALL LEAD . . .

 

In 1955 a 12-year-old French boy went
for a walk near Paris. He came across
some children torturing young squir-
rels and birds. When he tried to stop
them, they turned and attacked him.
This experience made Jean-Paul Steiger
determined to start a club which

would encourage youngsters to love

and respect animals.

Grownups told him his plan would never
work, but he didn't give up. When he
read about Brigitte Bardot and her
love for animals, he wrote to her,
asking for help. She responded, and
gave her support and publicity to
Jean-Paul's idea.

This was the start of Le Club du
Jeune Ami des Animaux (Young Friends
of Animals Club). It now has hundreds
of thousands of members. Jean—Paul,
who has finished his military train—
ing, runs the club and has Just
helped launch a 64-page monthly
magazine, Le Monde Animal (Animal
World) which is on-sale world-wide
in French-speaking cities, including
those in Canada. Each month the
magazine will devote space to what
the Club is doing;

Now comes word that Jean—Paul and his
Club have helped bring about a new
law in France which will alleviate

- .529

sex

the sufferings of meat animals. The
Prime Minister has issued a decree
that animals must be rendered uncon-
scious before slaughter. Teenage
Jean-Paul went to work in a slaughter-
house to see for himself‘what went on.
Then he took action.

October 1964

YOU AND THE FISH

The new leaflet, You and the ’”“~
Fish, is now available from

the Kindness Club, 252 waterloo Row,
Fredericton, N.B., Canada. Sponsored
by the Trout Kindness Club, this
leaflet gives a new look at our
piscatorial cousins, whom scientists
are finding to be in many ways more
sensitive than we are.

 

 

PREDATORS

Last spring, Wisconsin
under impetus from a
citizen group that
advises the Conservation
Commission on policy, did away with their
bounty system. The $180,000 a year saved
will be used for development of nature
trails, wildlife habitats, lake improvement,
and similar programs.

The California Branch of Humane Society of
the U.S. has gathered extensive evidence
that may soon end the government-sponsored
destruction of predatory animals in
California. Rowland Mitchell, speaking

for the HSUS, cited the prevailing view of
naturalists that predators have an important
place in nature's balance.

Referring to the government-sponsored
predator control, he said:

"This program is a cruel solution
to an exaggerated problem. If
our wildlife cannot live undis-
turbed in its.own wilderness
environment, where is it to live?"

 

 

page 6
3‘
§Z§E§?é%§?[;>
as...
”w

 

 




GOOD NEWS from Unexpected

October 1964

 

 

———i

AFRICAN HUMANE POSTERS

During July and August, the Little
Gallery of Hudson Park Branch, New
York Public Library, displayed posters
painted by African school children and
entered in a contest sponsored by the
Humane Education Institute of Africa,
whose headquarters are in Dar es

Salaam, Tanganyika.

Kindness is the theme, and
it is portrayed in a large
variety of ways toward
animals and toward
people. Ten African
countries are represented
in the exhibition, which
was shown in Toronto,

and in Boston, prior to
coming to New York.

 

N0 TRADE

U.S. Senator Harrison A. Williams, Jr.,
of N.J., voted against provisions of a
recent bill that would have permitted
duty-free importation of wild birds and
animals for exhibition. He says, "In my
judgment there was no justification for
approval of legislation which would
accomplish no other purpose than to in-
crease the profits of a few individuals
who import wild animals and birds for
commercial gain.

"I am convinced that this bill would un-
doubtedly have resulted in suffering and
cruelty to many more animals and birds.

‘ Of great concern, also, was the fact that
the bill would surely result in increased
imports of wildlife and thus endanger
international conservation efforts to
preserve the world's rare and diminishing
species of wildlife from extinction."

Armand Denis, editor of Animals magazine,

says, "Trade in living wild animals does

an immense amount of harm to wild life,

besides involving a great deal of cruelty.

The best treatment for people who deal in

animals in this way is to refuse their
area at any price.

 

JAPAN IN THE NEWS

Fish

 

Biologist Yukitaka Kanayama
of Tokyo regretted that the
beautiful rainbow trout raised

in Japan's hatcheries were released to be
gobbled up by bigger fish. He decided to
teach them survival, and started a class-
room for baby trout.

A tin "fish" charged with electricity in
the center of a tank gave a mild electric
shock to any troutlet who swam near it.
In about two weeks a class was ready for
graduation. Kanayama put trout pupils in
a tank divided by a screen through which
they could swim. On the other side was a
grown fish too big to get through the
meshes. Untrained minnows swam through
the screen and were eaten by the big fish.
The trained ones stayed away and survived.

Kanayama hopes to build a big channel

with a series of electrified tin fish.
Young trout passing through it will get

one scare after another and will come out
ready for life in an actual river. One
thing bothers Kanayama: After learning how
to avoid danger from other fish, why should
these little fish grow up to be caught on

a hook? "I may start another project to
teach them to stay away from.hooks,” he says.
"It should be easy. Rainbow trout are
really smart."

 

Pigeons

In 1923, when Tokyo was wrecked by an
earthquake, Japanese newspapers used
carrier pigeons to transmit news. In
1959, when a typhoon blacked out telephone
and wirephoto services, a flock of pigeons
brought help to the city of Hagoya. Get-
ting ready for the Olympic Games in Japan
this fall, one newspaper has increased its
flock of pigeon reporters.

 




GOOD NEWS from Unexpected October 1964

 

A N 0 T H E R L A N G U A G E

Grey Owl, famous Canadian naturalist, in his books
gives accounts of incidents that led to his giving

up trapping:

"The sight of a mother beaver nursing one of
her kittens whilst fast by one foot in a
trap. She was moaning with pain.

"The spectacle of a crippled beaverwwith
only one hind leg and three stumps, doing
his best to carry on.

”And now I no longer wished to kill. To
see them so abused awoke in me a kind of
loyalty. . . . They seemed to me like

' . little folks from some other planet, whose

‘35 M language we could not yet quite understand.
H

{1

 

, To kill such creatures seemed monstrous."

\ V
, \ .

UH mﬂﬂ W1 1%?(7. /? Grey Owl's book, PILGRIMS OF THE WILD, tells the

thrilling story of how he and his wife adopted a pair
of orphan beavers and raised them in their cabin.

These youngsters were clean, affectionate, intelligent and amusing. Through them he

learned to love the Beaver People, small furred brothers who loved and trusted him. A

beaver's outstanding characteristic, says Grey Owl, is gentleness.

 

 

 

 

Before the sunset glow has faded and the
moon looked down, a silver streak appears
at the lodge and begins to lengthen. A
dark head comes gliding'near. The beaver
swims back and forth, often stopping to
listen, then climbs on the dam, takes a
piece of fresh-cut poplar from our hands
and begins his crunchy, rhythmic gnawing.
Sunset is breakfast time for beavers.

 

OCTOBER EVENING . . .

 

From.the beaver dam.at sundown, an inspiring
view spreads out. The sky glows pink. Fall
colors of the trees are intensified, and
black stubs and dead bushes make patterns

in the bright water. Best of all, there is
a stir of life.

Small flocks of ducks come from the east,
wings whistling, and descend like falling
leaves to land with a splash. A blue heron
"quawks" and resettles himself. Green herons
fly singly with swift wingbeats from the
west. New and then a frog calls.

 




THE NATIONAL CATHOLIC SOCIETY FOR ANIMAL WELFARE

1346 CONNECTICUT AVENUE, N. W. WASHINGTON, D. C. 20036

September II, I964

NIH APPROPRIATION FOR 1965: $1,058,992,000

A record appropriation of $I,058,992,000 was voted for the National Institutes of Health
for I965 in final action on the measure last week by the Senate and House.

The Senate followed its usual pattern of voting more than the budget request, thus appro-
priating $9l/2 million more of the taxpayers’ money than the NIH requested for I965, an increase
of $84 million over the I964 appropriation.

The money which the Congress so generously votes for the NIH each year is, of course,
the taxpayers' money. In addition to the experimentation on animals which the National Insti-
tutes of Health itself conducts, the NIH is also the agency which administers grants to medical
institutions throughout the country for experimentation on animals. (Some researchers who re-
ceive grants from the NIH also receive grants of the taxpayers’ money from other Federal agen-
cies.)

Information Bulletin #2 (pages 3 8. 4) provides information on the typical ways in which
the taxpayers’ money is used for experiments inflicting suffering on animals through NIH grant-
supported work. Much of the NIH supported experimentation is a duplication or repetition of
work already performed or in progress. Researchers are under no compulsion to use such clear-
inghouse facilities as those available through the Science Information Exchange to determine
whether experiments they are performing have already been performed, often repeatedly. This
means that they may inflict the same suffering on animals that other researchers have already
inflicted, often repetitiously.

In Information Bulletin #I in this series,which The NCSAW issued in May, I964, we called
attention to the work of a Canadian researcher who inflicts great suffering on animals and who
receives large grants from the NIH and other Federal agencies in addition to grants from the Ca-
nadian government and other sources. We listed an incomplete total of $728,926 NIH grants to
the researcher in 0 I3 year period, knowing that other grants, on which information was not read-
ily available to us, had been made.

The Select Committee on Government Research, a House committee which is studying the
administration of research and development grants, recently published its first report in which it
reveals in a case study that the above mentioned researcher actually received $785,I50 from the

 




 

NIH and $345,8II from other United States Federal agencies in a seven year period in addition
to $958,744 from Canadian agencies and private foundations, making a total of $2,089,705 from
all sources in an eight year period.

Another researcher mentioned in our Information Bulletin #I said in a letter to the editor
of a newspaper that the type of research in which he has been engaged for twenty years “is be-
ing carried out in more than 100 laboratories.” The taxpayer has a right to know whether all
that duplication and repetition and the suffering it is causing animals is being paid for with tax

money. The NCSAW is endeavoring to find out.

If you object to the way in which your tax money is being spent by the NIH for such typi-
cal experiments as those described in the enclosed Information Bulletin #2 and the preceding
bulletin, make your views known to your Senators and Representative, Senate or House Office
Bldg., Washington, D. C., and to the Select Committee on Government Research, 900 Independ-
ence Avenue, S.W., Washington, D. C.

Members of the Select Committee are: Reps. Carl Elliott, Ala., Chairman; John E.
Fogarty, R.l.; George P. Miller, Calif.; Melvin Price, |Il.; Phil M. Landrum, Ga.; Clarence J.
Brown, Ohio; John B. Anderson, IlI.; James C. Cleveland, N.H., and Patrick Minor Martin, Calif.

Write also to the House Intergovernmental Relations Subcommittee, House Office Bldg.,
Washington. The Subcommittee's report of its study of the Administration of Grants by the Na-
tional Institutes of Health (Reexamination of Management Deficiencies) was quoted in our pre-
ceding bulletin.

Members of the House‘lntergovernmental Relations Subcommittee are: Reps. L. H. Foun-
tain, N.C., Chairman; John A. Blatnik‘, Minn.; Torbert H. MacdonaId, Mass.; J. Edward Roush,
Ind.; John E. Moss, Calif.; Florence P. Dwyer, N.J.; Richard S. Schweiker, Pa., and Bill Stin-

son, Wash.

Both committees are doing an excellent job in studying the ways in which tax supported
grants are administered by Federal agencies.

 

NOTE: The suffering induced by the typical experiments described in the bulletin following and
the preceding bulletin would not be prevented by the bills pertaining to laboratory animals which
are pending in Congress. The NCSAW does not support the measures and requests that its pub-
lications not be used in any way to give support to the measures which because of their inade-
quacy would legalize, not prevent or alleviate, the suffering induced by the vast majority of ex-
periments performed on animals.




 

HOW THE NIH SPENDS YOUR TAX MONEY

Information Bulletin #2

9/64

Following are examples of work performed by researchers who receive grants from the National
Institutes of Health:

DRUMMING. The Noble-Collip drum, developed in I942 by the two researchers for whom
it was named, is an automatically driven revolving drum in which animals are rotated to induce
experimental shock.

Widely used in this country, the drum has blunt triangular shaped proiections, the number
varying from one to three according to the researcher’s preference, which induce additional in-
jury when the animals'strike them with every revolution. Usually the animals’ feet are taped
together to prevent them from trying to jump over the proiections. The drum speed is adiustable
and averages 50 revolutions per minute which means that when two projections are added to the
device, each animal suffers I00 fallsagainst the proiections per minute.

The length of the sessions varies, one researcher stating in a typical paper that on the
9th postoperative day of drumming, the animals ”were challenged with 900 revolutions in the
drum, a normally LD/IOO* procedure”; another researcher stating that ”the drum was rotated at
60 rpm and 74° for 40 minutes, causing the animal to be carried up by the baffle and dropped
approximately 2400 times" and so on.

Some of the effects of the drumming are bruising, eSpeciaIIy over the skull and paws;
teeth broken or knocked out; severe diarrhea; internal injuries including free hemorrhages into
muscles; bruising of liver; engorgement of bowels, kidneys, lung, rectum, duodenum and stomach.

Frequently the animals are subiected to surgery before or after being drummed. In one of
the grant-supported drumming experiments cited below, the researcher described making the ani-
mals ”resistant to drum trauma by exposing them to progressively increasing numbers of rota-
tions” until he reached the normally lethal 900 revolution level and then subiected them to bowel
occlusion (closing) shock on the following day. At the conclusion of his paper he stated that
”adaptation to drum trauma did not circumvent the lethal effects of bowel occlusion.”

In I943, B. W. Zweifach of New York University first described his use of the Noble-
Collip drum in a research iournal. In I96l, B. W. Zweifach was himself still reporting the use
of the drum and during the same year, two other researchers, Aaron Janoff and Gabor Kaley, who,
under Zweifach's sponsorship, received U. 5. Public Health Service Postdoctoral Fellowships
(amounts not known) also were using the drum at New York University. This experiment also
was supported by a grant from the Office of the Surgeon General, Department of the Army.

NIH GRANTS TO B. W. ZWEIFACH FROM 1959 TO I963: $388,196

*IOO per cent lethal dose

 




In I959 researchers at the Marquette University School of Medicine, Department of Physi-
ology, Milwaukee, reported the use of the Noble-Collip drum, one of the researchers, William J.
Stekiel, being a USPHS Postdoctoral Research Fellow of the National Heart Institute. (Amount
of Fellowship not known.)

John K. Hampton, Jr., Tulane University Medical School, Department of Physiology, New
Orleans, in I963 also reported using the Noble-CoIIip drum.

NIH GRANTS (INCOMPLETE TOTAL) TO JOHN K. HAMPTON, JR., from 1959 to 1963: $61,015

Numerous other institutions in which tax-supported use of the Noble-Collip drum is car-
ried on could be cited.

In a letter to the Lancet, British medical journal, six British scientists in I949 called the

Noble-Collip drum ”shocking to a normal human conscience.”

SHOCKS, FLYSWATTERS, PINCHING. Wilbur D. Hagamen of Cornell University Medi-
cal College*, New York, described his tax-supported experiment as follows: ”As a beginning for
such a behavioral study, cats were completely deprived of their senses of sight, sound and
smell. . .Under deep anesthesia the aqueous and vitreous humors of the eyes were rendered
opaque by an iniection of absolute alcohol, which precipitated the proteins. This procedure
also caused acute glaucoma and degeneration of fibers in the optic nerve. The cats did not re-
Spond to light. The cochlea was destroyed bilaterally with a dental burr, without producing
signs of vestibular dysfunction. To gain access to the olfactory bulbs, the frontal sinus was
widely opened and the exposure extended by removing the medial walls of the orbits. The olfac-
tory bulbs were then removed by suction under direct visualization. These blind, deaf, anosmic
preparations will henceforth be referred to as BDA cats.

”. . .Three different noxious stimuli were used from time to time: (a) an electric shock of
one-half second’s duration delivered via a metal grid covering the floor, (b) a single sharp blow
to the face with a plastic fly swatter, and (c) a brief pinching of the tip of the tail. Various
tactile stimuli were used, e.g., firm petting, lightly running the fingers once up the middle of the
cat’s back for a distance of about 4 in. (touching only the fur), and lightly touching only a few
hairs on the cat’s back. . .Ten blind, deaf, anosmic cats were studied as long as six years.”

Other experiments performed on animals by Wilbur D. Hagamen are of a sexual nature too
obscene to be described here.

NIH GRANTS TO WILBUR D. HAGAMEN FROM I959 TO 1963: $39,228

*Cornell University Medical College is one of the research institutions to which the American SPCA of
New York City (not to be confused with other SPCAs) send dogs and cats for experimentation.

 




2
1‘ Iii-T.

EDITORIAL INVCHEMICAL ENGINEERING

‘1} A- ‘« ‘ l The Power of Women

. ' at concern
men are 0f gre - s
'ons of two W0 . s, France
. _ 1 industry. In dlﬁgrggzigagttentim on
‘*'~' .. to . ...-.,...... -. , thfocuse . . -
‘ * 31 a3aa‘lghla”‘E’OW~icnrson haVe ‘00 1/ a11'1busmeSS-M .
V V :J [VVPVNKVI‘VSHeyfaﬁi Ilzgfileasant aspects of the chem“. ‘ m reachlng
._ .4... ,_ , 3 . e , ‘ ‘
V I V ' ' Séme Oh role in keepmg the C- ' t’on in the . v Dr' Kelsey.
It ° *FQr er h nnels of drug dlstrlbu -1 Any attempt by cheml-
commelfp 1al C a ed as a nati‘onéL1 hermit. Dr Kelsey WOIﬂd be
V has been aCdalm em to publiCly Grit 1C1Z€ " Vs expert to realiZe
4 7 cal industry 819013882 have t0 be a public-relauon
.1 .1 3 . 0n '
ZE‘ ' ‘ - sheer folly, you

i: I. this. ,
V Miss Carson wont get
ganda mills are already .11 t
Spring” series of articles 1

' on
theindustry has .been lrIJ'BS'EieS
4 V materials for use as pes 1c .

. ~ a
no doubt Others—~13 daliidxtlgcéftigate,
f ' We would comn’IBTlr;mk OT Cultist.

1 «”ork Of a C . t0
“Clothe W ‘ in a V01ce loud enough - ,.
some questions, ble posithn

  
 

, I‘

. , ' . . . V I." 3. ~ . J F“ .
. " ~r~ 1 . u . ' - .3 . . :~ 3 ‘- '

. 3.4. . ,..c. - - e. .._,_,y .J1 - 1 ._‘-.
..-.’- :"lw' Ll. '7 .'~" "-- "'S ‘. ~3. . . -' ' '
=7.__ \.- _ . -14 ..__. -. “*3 ; ...., . . I_ .__>_

~ . 1 r.‘ ‘,:.1'::‘=..f_v':1'1.:1 :1-<;e-?‘;#c~"3~r‘§lé spa: -;:~. -. . -' . --'1 _

a. v @9357; - ’\;O"¢‘: :5; - 74,551‘0.’ , 4‘ “3:13. ., .‘1, , _ 42,: .1 :7 1‘ -

l 1 . . -

  

' t
tings and ac ,
The er the Chemlcal

 

hemical thalidomids fro

' 1' try propa-'
' . Chemical indus “ '
Off S0 'hghtlyt rebuttals to her Silent
r——articles that imply;
'ble in the marketing of 13018011236
81 At least one companP’I-«thereign
“get Rachel Carson c2133; ase
' . Carson. Her ar

123:; simply and calmly asll:1
be heard, about a fie _
has singularly gone

 

 

he 11 t , , -
. ' hen SSWItha -:, #4
. . ’ts vulnera ' n h sterical, W , at all tln resound - 2, , .
. - . that-aconsulierlﬁgr tone is reasonable, ratlggnggzly aycccpted cheml— k J StarZ’Scogcem ls “baloney ” . ..
V unqueStlone ' ' ‘ blic has unques hemicals are 0113 fides a
. . that the pu '1 ﬁfe. These C much Wei h re 1m
3 she pOlnts (mt monplace 0f d3“ y ° tein ratber than “I d g t. therefore '
. . _ : In his
- esticides as a com - h Helena RubmS own ,0 not know
:lefdated in the public inlaiiisvtlﬁtbis background, nottﬁl: Sick of hysmjan ha of a sing1c Case -
‘ g

with Lucretia Borgia.

t'ons lf—evident assume
bserva 1 .,

on the ‘59

1 ' her 0 'sons. es— by the 1.0 dual has
makmgf - esticides are, after €111,901 . ht not we take th? qu ne littl p per Use of pesticides ., g,
~ I revelatmn til) n protesting too much] mig inder of the questions we - e troubje With that Tli a
. - Carson reuse? 3‘ . 9 13 it best for S P9 hatch. r
tions MISSt tly be askmg ourselVeS~ looked upon, anywhere, a... Kiss are not always pr he V;

must cons an , t1c1des be . 9 As engl e Whol Operly
' d for the puth~~'that p8: rather than as p01 OHS" e Source f ‘

1 an di ies .

'n the fact that good safety

ommO .
hold C take prlde 1 ‘ rlSkS from 0111‘

' dl house
frien Y hemistsxwe can

. 537' q
t

w '7‘ .3.» :s- — w
IV?) N~"".;i"‘~_“ . .
‘1’ 1| )1. . .F‘\ 3 3‘

‘ 7. .‘ ‘ I.

1.. I‘. .n .
l

I' ‘ _ u ‘3. I.) V‘
.

\

 

eno, h t. mee i _ chal ,

neers and C
practices have
plants an
welfare.

 
 

WILLIAM S. McCANN, M.D. _ '
"DEWEY PROFESSOR OF MEDICINE
EMERITUS / THE UNIVERSITY OF

ROCHESTER

“A great contribution to humanity. The
skill with which Miss Carson presents

' her case will carry” the majority of think-

ing people 'with‘her. It will be a great

. ,victory "for public health. When one . ,
thinks : of. the' rumpus... stirred. up ' by the ’ ‘
thalidomide business, which relatively is

a small thing, Silent Spring should ring

. all the bells in Christendom.”

PROF. JOHN J. BIESELE‘
DEPARTMENT OF ZOOLOGY
THE UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS

“In Silent Spring Rachel Carson has
brought- together in most compelling
form a wealth of data on one of man-
kind’s 'sorest problems. She has forged
through to a. bright look at what could
be, and once was, a biologically much
better world.” ' .

l

HENRY I3. LEE, M.D. / THE CHESTNUT
HILL PEDIATRIC GROUP
PHILADELPHIA *

" threatens to do away with, or at least

alter, life as we know it now. Can we be
intelligent, discriminating and coura-

 

J <3
-.1 ‘3 ,3 :T-r- 3:7,:‘353' 9'33 5 "T"

 

l /

practically ‘31

d laboratories.

iminated toxicological

o
e concern
Let’s show the sam .

f r the p bliC

#CECIL H- CHILTON

 

................................................
...................................................................................................
......................................................................................................................................................................................
.............................................................................................................................................................................................................

........................................................................................................................................................................................
.......................................................................................................................................................................................................

The two editorials reproduced above pointedly summarize one aspect of the ‘stormy contro-
versy over Rachel Carson’s SILENT SPRING. The chemicals industry has millions of dollars
invested in pesticides and, naturally, is concerned in protecting its huge investment. Unfor-
tunately, not all the elements of this industry have demonstrated the responsible attitude
eXpressed by Chemical Engineering. In order that you not be misled in a matter that affects

your health, your life, and possibly the genetic welfare of future generations, it will pay you
to read this— ,

about Rachel Carson’s SILENT SPRING

R. A. CHAPMAN

PROFESSOR OF PLANT PATHOLOGY
UNIVERSITY OF KENTUCKY

“We cannot produce the. quantity and
quality of food and ﬁbre needed and
desired by our growing population with-
out using pesticides. However, because
of the hazards involved with the use of
pesticides, every effOrt should be made

._-to~ reduce the quantities that are needed .

to a minimum. Miss Carson’s book points
out the hazards encountered by the user

of pesticides and by pointing them out

she has emphasized the need for cau-
tion, the need to reduce our reliance on
pesticides, and the need for wider under-
standing of pest Control and pesticides.”

ELIZABETH S. HILLMAN, M.D.

DIRECTOR, POISON CONTROL CENTRE
THE MONTREAL CHILDREN’S HOSPITAL
“Silent Spring should be required read-
ing for all people working, as we do, in

Poison Control Centres in Canada and
the United States.” . ‘

HERMANN J. MULLER .

that sponsor the mass sprayings. It is '

therefore urgently necessary for the case

‘ against the Continuance of these prac-

tices in their present indiscriminative

form to, be. .uadarateesas Proms-tn and; 1

5- ‘tw If -

I: WEST "1“;(“111 .;;«,1 «a; :2 (71‘ “fr-Tu} , ‘ . .1: v... ,a - . .
. 3‘. 3553b,ggas-’ys’ii‘gi'ez3a37public-Kas'pfoisslble,"»—(m N Y .
’ " ‘ ' _ Herald Tribune Book Review)

 

MARSTON. BATES

PROFESSOR OF ZOOLOGY
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN,

“Miss Carson has taken great pains to
gather and check her facts . . . again and

again she points out that the possible .

mass effects on people are subtle and
that the acute incidents, pathetic as they

 

LOUIS A. KRUMHOLZ
ASSOCEAVE PROFESSOR OF BIOLOGY
UNIVERSITY OF LOUISVILLE

“Miss Carson is not crying wolf. She
has pointed out one of our principal
faults in trying to control natural phe-
nomena. We are likely to ‘shoot ﬁrst and
ask questions afterward.’ . . . Her obser-

are, are smo‘st important as warn, jnts of 7 ,vations are based on good, solid evidence
what may be happening less ObViOﬁély‘ﬁ.Ly

warnings that have largely been ignored. ‘3 7

The unexpected effects of mass spray-

ings show how foolhardy it is to under- , V

take large-scale intervention without ﬁrst
attempting to understand the relation-
ships among the organisms involved.”

(in The N ation)"

LOREN EISELEY / PROFESSOR OF
ANTHROPOLOGY AND HISTORY OF
SCIENCE / UNIVERSITY OF
PENNSYLVANIA

“Rachel Carson’s book is a devastating,

heavily documented attack upon human .

carelessness, greed, and irresponsibility

'— an irresponsibility that has let loose '

upon man and the countryside a ﬂood
of dangerous chemicals in a situation
which, as Miss Carson states, is without

semi-deserts which could breed 0ne ‘
plague after another. Miss Carson does.
not ignore the good that these chemicals
do, but shows that spoilers are at work; ,

turning 'si‘ich/ tools to ; quick proﬁt j Whit-3"":

de’StrOying the‘ lasting values of lithe}?
land.” '- '

.and she has drawn on her own knowl-
sedge and ﬁrst-hand. ‘.eXperience in the
ﬁeld of ecology.” (in Louisville Times) ‘

GAIRDNER B. MOMENT

PROFESSOR OF BIOLOGY

GOUCHER COLLEGE .

“Her book brings together in vivid detail
a vast array of facts illustrating the
damage to man and to wildlife of a truly
satanic pharmacopeia. . . . Miss Carson
has the ability and cOurage to dramatize

7 ' the other side of the coin at a time when

I we were beginning to act as though

 

chemical agents were as harmless as
dew and as widely effective as gravity
itself. . . . Henceforth there will be no
excuse‘for anyone to use one of the new
pesticides and then claim he didn’t know
it was loaded. . . . The documentation is

- g . 1 '. _ \.
-_~_. .u ‘.- c; 1.:
‘:‘.' a 12",“:E

. ;~r'\r#1;,--¥ .

 
 

mmentb

 

citing exact references so that anyone
can consult the original sources for him-
self. The mass of sober scientiﬁc evi-
dence is simply too great to be dismissed
as’ the result of fanaticism or hysteria.”

(in Baltimore Sun)

HENRY S. SATTERLEE, M.D.
NEWPORT, NEW HAMPSHIRE

“A masterly and m0stjt'imely revelation
' ‘ of the drastic and rapid destructionthat

man has wrought upon the biochemical
balance of his environment, a document
which I believe will become a classic in
the field of preventive medicine.”

DR. ROBERT D. PLATT
PROFESSOR OF BIOLOGY
EMORY UNIVERSITY

“Miss Carson has done a tremendous
service to the world. Let us hope that
the great debate she has started will
lead us to an intelligent re-evaluation of
our. sense of values and to a truly dis-
criminating use of these highly dangerous
chemicals. Although Miss Carson’s
charges against the reputed three hun-

“The most important chronideof

1 m5 ‘ "UM; 53 NA TIONAI. BEST SEll ;

V $5.00 at all bookstores - HOUGHTON ,M_IFFLIN COMPANY -'Publishers - Boston

'\

 
 

 

l
j»; .‘ss‘h
I .

W. C. HUEPER, M.D.
BETHESDA, MD.

“Silent ' Spring should stimulate and
arouse any thinking person into a crit-
ical assessment of the situation“ into
which we are so recklessly and thonght-
lessly drifting. This book may well be
the long wished-for instrument of induc-
ing our legislators to give sensible con—

sideration to the protection of man and

nature.” .»

w.

WILLIAM M. MILSTEAD / ASSOCIATE
PROFESSOR AND ACTING CHAIRMAN
OF BIOLOGY / UNIVERSITY OF
KANSAS CITY

“The dangerous effects of certain chem-
icals commonly used as pesticides are
known to biologists. They have attempted
in papers and before their classes in uni—
versities to warn the public. Now one of
the nation’s outstanding biologists and
writers, Rachel Carson, has taken the
time to look over the mass of available
evidence and gather it into a book, Silent
Spring, which happily will gain wide
reading. . . . Chemical companies and
organizations are bombarding us with
articles replying to Miss Carson, and
with advertisements which claim that

 

\

 

c ~_.:_:~\._:'!;..- J»~.1L_ 1 3;“ _ '2‘ 45.}, ”‘6'

 

 

 

 

“H 3.1 t S . . t k 'th th NOBEL PRIZE-WINNING GENETICIST parallel in medical history. . . . She has - impressive. Page after page quotes Well‘. ,le‘ed smillion dollar DSStiQide. industry pesticides are harmless unless carelessly e
. .411 s . 1 m {in d I pring 11/1? enCwi _. ehcoi; . INDIANA, UNIVERSITY . courageously chosen, at the heightofeher-w authenticated cases and the “lei-k of 1111- have drawn some smoke, they still stand ' handled, which, Miss Carson correctly

”ff £281 a1 degegﬁs’facti: "sffgil: £2.79. “Rachel Carson’s Silent Spring is a powers, to educate us upon a sad, an impeachable scientists. . . . There are no without serious challenge. She is, un- pomts out, are ‘little tranquilizing pills ‘_
accomplished as real a. service as any smashing indictment that faces up to the unpleasant, an unbeautiful topic. and. less than 50 pages at the end of the book fortunately for US all, all too rlght.” of half truth.’ ” (in Kansas City Star) '
physician Who devotes a lifetime to pa- disastrous consequences, for both nature one Of our own making. Silent Spring \ '
,- tients, and she will have reached a and man, of the chemical mass-warfare ShOUId be read by every Amerlcan Who r
‘practice’ encompassing everyone!” that is being waged today indiscrim- does not want it to be the epitaph. 0f 3
. ‘ V ’ inately against noxious insects, weeds world not very far beyond US in “1.119: ' I ‘_ - . . _ . . . 3,;
. and fungi. . . . These depredations, al- I (in Saturday Review) he reader should be warned that comment on Silent Sprmg thchTmakes IIght of the dan-
VIRGIN“ ”GAR M o M P H . though potentially catastrophic in their gers of chemical poisons may emanate from sources dependent on the expanding use of , ‘33
I E INATALIST AN’D TERATOLOOIST FOtalhty’ have m the “am been hidden’ 3 chemicals. Such comment may attribute to MIss Carson statements that she has never ,
.'L' R - . ' 1 1 " - - mdlrecb and long delayed’ rather than 9" GEORGE 6- BERG " made. Weigh very carefully everything you read and hear. 1 ‘ V 7 ~33
, . Genetic inheritance is the most valuable dramatic and prompt like the ravages of DEPARTMENT OF RADIATION BIOLOGY. . k , ' . 7;;
" ”55‘5”“ 0f .thle hum: racf‘ T1513 pm' Well a drua e3. thalidomifie- At the same UNIVERSITY OF ROCHESTER You have seen above what scientists have to say about Silent Spring. The publishers have a:
leﬁls mafterla vzas. leve:1 ope ﬁler time, susp1c1ons regardmg them have “The stability of nature depends on hav- on|y one thing to add — read the book yourse|f_ When you have finished, you Will under— a
mi. ions 0 years 0 trla an error. ow tended to be allayed by the impresswe- ing a large number of living systems In stand Wh Justice William 0' Douglas calls it' . *°:"
MISS Carson shows us clearly that m; ness of the mighty organizations ‘— great balance Deserts have always bred- y - - ' 1 If“:
_ one short SPGCk 0f time, a quarter cen- chemical houses and inﬂuential arms of plaguesSilent Spring» shows the danger ' ‘ ' r ' ;;
V “11'an9 haVe been racmg towards a the Federal and State governments — of conVerting our agriculture to chemiCal- #34):
* potentially irreversible situation which '

 

(Ag-39 151mm, .muomiou om]




 

        
     

6 .2,

S h... 0 Au

1 . . , 3 ._...

m. .3. t S t H; H ,2.

e I U. l S 3 Ru 1 _ ML. 1.. I S

C .5 1 a. 8 8 d .r o to J P a n“ S .7. 3.-..

1|, ‘7: >015 I; ;.
i.sz1 mm“ 9 n u 3.6 t a.m r.;>. ,EUJ
1 D L t O 0 ﬂ. .0 S E 9. d :5 3 G .1 0 .ﬂ .3 C .. .

. L .I.‘ . 0 It In xvi... .1” ... H; .. ﬂ‘lu ,. \I...

V... .D .1 C S f M... n f C I V. b l t 8 h ...L .r. 4.... t «w .m .J .6
. .Y( ‘1 ... ..» . L \ \a ,1 4... .x x... . 3.!
”U- VU F,“ .mw. may... 1 CH!“ 8 AV 1”...“ VIN. hr» 1 L t ﬁll" Tl.“ an...“ CA. n+1 . A...» V a. a N. Y myk f .1 “U
.3 S l 6 .1 .L .3. .0 W t .1. .L 8 Va...“ 5.

.f «.1. u." q. A0

e.n 3mm a a- a“ g 0 u _ 6 -:.¢..

J. - .

6
I1
Y
5'.)

  
  

1
:1
.L
L:

8
1‘8
63'

1
V

 
                                  

O
at ._ 1
QLJ t
I-
8... 1
- C
611'
‘” JC: ’5)
O
‘Y'\ ."x
Lift}?
:3 r. J-
L.» 6.0
GI“? N
U
0311'?
on 0;“.
Q
uts:
.
)K)” .
,
X 1. £1
_.. 1-
LL 88 (J
11‘4"} "I :3
v.1. k;
C ZHI‘C
'1
‘33.
1-,
DC.
0"|\r
:3
.LI"
6
P"\
L. .L
”,0:
5‘ t
113‘
6’
516

t 3
i .
rﬁi
'n b
Q i .
throu
11
x
6

1
f)
:2}

." ii 5.1-:
S
fr
1"

O
.,
t‘ i;

1.. ”.1

S ., S u z .7. VJ E P ..._-. .... w .0. 3 3 xi . C 1
.1 u l .E t 8 U. h 1L a... a I. ﬂ. .9 m . . 1...,“

7.. . _ .. W S 3 8 S h... S q C S h. l P f o S Lu. U. m... a n S
M. O 74 n O u . L 7 Lb .14. .T... 3}. ML MU an S 0. mm. w}. .3 Q x... Q vv. au
9.. .6. mu .1 n 6 C .. 8 .1. .0 W I t u 3 c 3 va 3 VJ-.. d .1 m... m
, . . . . t; .x
.5 6. M... Ln an” O l 8 .. .m n in .. 1., VJ m. 1...... .. l -3 o.
a. p. .1. .h..wm axu .Tu .D mu 4w My. my my a. (u q. my ... mu m“ n m.. nu nu m. mu

P V C O +0 n. ma .3 .0. V. 0 Q. s... O S 6...... J :1 1... 5.... 3 ”A vJ
C t. .r... .0. S .5 P 8 P C 6,. f r... U .6 w... B .d C .w .n. a l
m... Law Liv aw. WA. av rm“ mu I. Q» .0... m4“... 0.... 31L. Wu” 1 AU AU. 6 V“. .n l ...\v mt. HA
3).. .. Cu. 1Q .0 10 us. H 1Q U. .U. T 8. ........ ~ 0 _, . no ...... W”. m s. Mr O .10 U .1 . 3.
a a... n S 1. n... I; l. O U. h .P a n C O G .1 m f h a U

3 L2. .a. 1...“ 1i I»... V... AM... a. m. S J v.7”. AU 1; 3.-. 2!. W1. mi .0 :1 .V. 8 ._..._ x...
a O f _ .1. H F. .0 1 .0 ..... n C ., .0 b. .. n .c S 3. ..-J..C
n... m... .N. S m. o m J a .n... d W. F O C T 6 g... G .6 ._ In... G r . S 8
.U D... m; M. .1. .1 m... C m... C L... M 3 n U. .1 . 2. -TI. 1,. n... 3 W... .3 -.T.. . . .L .7 H...
V .1 3 S A; A TV. an... .- C . .. t , H m.“ t H... w... .3 a. w... . J

r. .
J6 S S U. .6... . . VJ 1.... , . h C P. O .V. P. G H :2. .6... R u»... k Q a... L U
3 m. a w n >. m f b. .1 a .1. S 8 f f t. t .3 E W q; a... u E 3 . n
.1 U. a u... was-.. 3 t O S C 6 d it f C n. C S 1 .i 7-. a...
e m n i V 8 a n .2. S m... h n... .2 .E v. a... i O h a. T. as . H... 6. 3. m.”
m... A...“ 3, C P b n -1 6 .5 h. C -T. p. 3. f .n t 0 .6. n. .t .0 3. . i c...
.:. v. s u“ n. .u LU .U n. mh.6 my A0 ...:..u L: x. .9 ,m A. s .s.mu w; I. .6. .
36,. w; L ON 3 n.-. S . . i E D. H a... .6 a P. 2 .ﬁ m“ a 4.1%. .. f H. n... .1. S ...,. ...,.
s. Q 2 l .3 3+. 1 u .3 m... d a- u ., l e a e C a C 2. t t C. 1......1
.1 f h . u m... .1. a P. n d . .1 0 .7 S w l S t a. . 3. b .1 .w a 31 a.
m .., ax” «mu m... “a n... .m S m ,,,I. +6» . S w- mm W .E U m... .b ...,...,.0 .p. .m 3 . , . w. IT.
Wm. wad 1-..“ w; .Ww. .wvd J“. M ”L NU 1.1..-. m0 5W WV 30.. .6... at» my...» a D... , no 0 LL n... «My
rt... QTU . . .x. . . V... VT). F... 0 vi 6. C AU 1...... VL .19”. 0T4 trip. WL e M. Ms, «C Ifm 80 ab W; 7.... 6 3L
8 U V 7?... a C «J mm P P13 .H J/ a 7.0.1:... 7 .L . .4. . x. .L

 

\l
y
.L
,r
,
L
" 2.. I”;
l
'1.
.L
i
‘J
m
a a“
x v
I-

 

IS 8‘




a/
J

c:

3‘5

. ml 3

‘
L2
(3

3
V“, '
L J
D
I"
,

'2

4. ., ‘
”\

I

4
I .

{3
x r 3
.1 .
3
A... x.’ .4— x.-

'1

 




GBLSW'IO HLHON )IHVd Mil/\UIVJ 83M! AXDOH QOV'I'IIA AVG DIV'LLSEM

f1 ' [.1 1.11....1,“
L400 L43 1.2111 L L
1’ 3:94-; L3H! ‘ <1. 1 ‘

k 1 1 111)1111ﬂ Cu? 11

W 7; 71/1,,“ Zn]?

L/
{S1vU.LOJ.5 if L ”Livar .i.

1? not 00
. r

«*- C . €11. : 51.1011
UMHTOO aq1 9una’11 01 @11; STHOQS : Q3 qvum} .EJQA QIEME $111
‘11181 1 “~ "v $1 ‘gbbwnu 1 °ﬁg1uw 11na11 gmm 7011mm“ L111 1

i

a?
1 “1u1111w11.5mﬂﬂmu1 *QT uuwrwwvv~

:' U '1: ’1. 11.1; 1‘39 2.- .3 I. ”C a 2'7 "3 ,. LL) 1:; L {3" U I”; :93 :23 1: f ,1“. C:
2-.) 1,121 1110111; 4:13:41}; 11:31 {1-1 ’1 31.11191 =- ' '1 ["1 ‘ {931117311 .
.:'*v=°11 if¥1ﬁ1 01: I ’11L31111n11.1101. g:-*“ 7L"‘ZTCZTC» 1 1CV11 “"CC’fLL €31?
' : HITS 1’ .1 £3 E», (1' "1:13 1-10 23 11'1’1‘1 "11'"? ‘: :51. ' '
0 I

«.11.. «J 1.

UMRfOD

1
W
,1 ,_ 111.1,...“
.9 £1 '1}. 1 [Lb 1-111

,

i

3.7

1,1 {(1011}. (LU: 211.1:- (10111’1 I
“'3 1.11111113111“ 11"“

"4'54 M ~ ‘1. ‘ 'M‘ w M ’ 1" 6 ~.. 1 -: . r. n
QQUUT ﬁg”; ”@ﬂ 1191 ng

$111111? 1'1 19.1 1:11 3.11:1"
111.1% 2) 1C1, 0% :91 LIV £110

1!..1'

795T ‘31 iaqmaguag

OZVl'l Bl OIHO '3)|V‘|.I.SHM 390M 831N323 l669Z

"Elam/‘21 LSEIMC

3.

l
n71“ ,1
0 A 0:";

.\

10"

.L‘

,1

g1
’1

721.1 ‘9

 




Dear Mrs. Schoepperle:

I felt that l shumdd write and tell you about a new T- V.
program emanating from Chicago although I do not know if it
can be of use or not. However, I did not want any opportun~
ity to pass if it could work out.

This program is called The Morning Show and its host is Jim
Conway, a very pleasant person and a long time Chicago radio
and T. V. interviewer etc. — ~~The format of the show seems to
be a guest of some organization who is interviewed and may talk
at quite some length of hms or her project and during the time
people may call and ask questions of them and they will answer
right then and there. I am unable to make personal contacts but
felt that I would not write either because I did not want to spoil
and% Opportunity to do something in behalf of the Cause, by not
making a right approach.

As an example of the type of thing they have had in theten days
they have been on——~the director of the Chicago Alcoholic Trdwment
Center was on and answered questions. Also, a volunteer worker
from Manteno Mental Hospital, a fashion coordinator and several
other diverse types. ...I thought if there was any chance here
it might be good to get Jim Conway while things are in an embry—
onic state before he gets bogged down.

Aside from the above, I have been writing to our Chicago American
News, but do not have success. Was very disgusted when they print—
ed a letter from a man who said he”read Somewhere” that "these Eeople”
wanted to stOp progress with their views about animal experimentation
etc. I answered this letter and hOpe to see mine in print.
I really cannot see why they do not at least print what I have writ-
ten in regard to where interested people can at least get the correct
information. I feel that I am zznrgzz/ literate enough to write a
letter that they can understand. However, I have also writtent to
the Chicago Tribune and hepe for results there.

Again, the Morning Show, with Jim gonwa "y c/o W.B. K. Err v.
(pgghn/ hicago, Ill.
is just a thought which I wanted to pass on to you regardless Of
whether it could be used or not.

flease excuse the typing and form of letter, Mrs. Schoepperle,
but I prefer to type than write all this in longhand.

Sincerely

I

.r”) < / .j 5;}.4/, \
W Minn 4M

:7] "17/7
j/fi" £4.49" .
/"r J J
u .. . 4 _, , I. f 7-“ J’C’
$1 , 9/; .777/ . ,Cﬁxﬁw ’4 ,

'_‘\/. ’3, r

w :- / :1? 4/ /

z" s/‘ 4 / /¢,4’ {3 f." / V’éw—r ‘

nx~nnar,f« / u / ,
a"; ~y '

 




g .H , f/i ‘ I w ,'
v/Ew/w 'W‘j/ -'- It” H", (
1/ ,

4‘ f/ it
/’ ‘ ’ I
4”,! [,1] .
/V' "a; ' {vﬂr—“h‘M—w .0...
/ "', / [74¢ ,
(”I/y ‘ / I’

 




.r.
G 5

up»)? =37 I‘LL-2' 4.1” (3 {heroic/«1» ~~ [ﬂaw/z» obi/«44f .
ﬂi'ﬂx) w? I; c’éi/Zd émaozxgﬂj *4 (rd—v"
O 4 f (4 " ~ .7 ‘
WMW¢ fﬁ 61' ’7‘ W5 '
[,1

ZOOLOGY
Squirrels Remain Active
100 Days Without Water

> THE ROCK GROUND SQUIRREL, a
little resident of southwestern American
deserts, has remained alive‘ and active under
observation for periods as long as 100 days
without water. ' “

The squirrel, ofﬁcially called Cz‘tellm
yarz'egatus, may thus be the all—time non—-
drinking champ among mammals that do
not conserve their body water by aestivat—
ing, becoming inactive. The camel can last
only about a month without water.

The rock squirrel’s cousin, the mantled
ground squirrel, can survive only 20 active
days without drinking. Consequently, the
mantled squirrel aestivates during the hot
dry season, but the rock squirrel does not.

In the winter, however, both animals
hibernate if food and water are scarce.
Laboratory experiments have shown that
the rock squirrel will not hibernate at low
temperatures if food and water are supplied.

If water only is withheld in the winter,
rock squirrels will also remain active and
stay at normal body temperature, although
they will die in about 45 days under these
conditions.

The lOO—day observation was made for
warm temperatures.

E. T. Pengelley of the University of Cali—
fornia division of life sciences, Riverside,
reported the study in Nature, 203:892, 1964.

a Science News Letter, 86:153 Sept. 5, 1964

 




M75. Katharine Bainbridge 1825 North Whitley Hollywood 28, California

,2'
i
i
i
i

 




 




Mrs. Ka‘rharine Bainbridge
I825 Nor’rh Whi’rley Avenue Holiywood 28. California

 

 




. x"

. .uv.\
w

.

w

A

..

x.

l

“~-~~./

I

 




60,191.. {$5.11mgrif I.
2115/ 1,1115... . 1/._1<//ﬂQ./. Q11. .1w967m1:

M»x4<~.¥\\ﬂo> duﬂ1iL4yéL501LJﬂmY§
. «.519 Ed ,3“.

051C!» AW 05.»...
:11; 61:21.}.10. 5.1.1:... €95» 5 «+1
«\ 01.5 ﬁUm..®sﬁuxm K/Mgi .. .V U. .

551% $0.15? E54523 10.3»); r57 {Swﬁxfr *1”. new... 31 1+9? .SQJF

 

 

 

20$ H.958. 005.31

mooﬂwa Wow 6mm EOHWOHHOZ om. ngPm H50.

1. mom wgw ma. 2%: H6399... 095. 1
an 5 1 K111... ”$3.6, £1,611 21:10 51.3. £1,111.11. E: .155/
12 «76.7.... >546. b51516 4.6.46... 93 15B 62.5.16 j} j 21.. L Q
$90 («3.) 9o\<(2~. ac) 55mg... Nab V9.1} (3.0» of an: $15)! Axe/pg?) H951: ”(ﬁe gab?
(co/Worker. In... phi... 0,1 iffy/419133)) $9.91)»... 643% L1 VHLS (05$; .40 ﬁg
69.13.31 .43; W1. cc 1.61506.) _ .. . 1 .1 «55666).» 0.199... .52... (7)9136... 111
4mm) c. 1656me . arms). 99 1.45/11/ War/.2959?) (also Aﬁwaﬁnwnb. é r6566 PU
/ .5105 0 RTE cf 6.». nM T121 ﬂux; 0 01¢.»
ff ,/ 5/ A .f k“? \ﬂr/ vachmu‘. CTN vow ”91/wa 79.720 {Sher 8351
m: 6.2 5.13. E? 0 0:3 0 9r :1. rnkm 965*91rﬁ65
111/ Ski-1:96) 0.8 «57%) “$6 /4m my”; 058% m3: 06.71... 7% “MPbbJ/x/mwﬂmnwﬁf 0r.\

QEﬁbJ ((5 I) “1 314A. (bras 1~ ﬁre/Av Mansfmw 1 MQ.¢ t.
_ .4 I.)Lﬂc ((1%): éb 71..) 455W) ”W’Pr. +0. (/9)? Q(IO<I)U.7\ 4.1 PM; o 1?
GA Golan Umm 9,”

«@151. 1...... .1? a .3. 1» 1.3.0.? P119422)... 39.3..» «in 1 .95.? 8
9.61 ..

m yak/5. 1.1.6951 19.. E 8.5. 1

1am)?“ $6.?yJ/WE} «Hygekiiéﬂimfwﬁcoch

WW0? i Eu.) 4/..(8 a]? n..0.oCC/Qrw..ba~ .Crm 9:455n. (pmﬁxenm 1
66.1156 9.. f9961110>15~ébMW1<PrbH 971.32..)

.§ (655.59th 96.11
$9.5 $510.; \nnwxo Q5 AS».
Exp; S46 H 6))? PW%>:QJP.O . f‘. 4.9 A Aw}
«ngi A? 98.7 nag (C117... RAF») 61 .1 (Si/QM.» 55W \1 in. Q, 9.
9).nm %
WWMJer o 6» r.» bis 31/8565 gar”, 59.1.”.6
.1. .1 A a ac.) 505??»M6mv «5A. WEMM/ Pm*§J% 96 xx.)
:9 PA €91.11 <c.. {1.2.1.1 41795.11 .5 1.15;..1
.1 1.1.1; .1 111.1 11.1,. .111 x .111 1.11 .11 .11.
AA/HM..W.,~ (~11: 3:6 1?. 1961111 . . 1 119.1%, a ($101143?
66 W. 51.995 “2’05 11.5 (QR/b)“. *fnfn/
(6% 1.163%. (/30 madam pix/1r jock/1r -1 r p a 0.1 nmCQMrU§L£w~v~9fﬁ
1+9; «3&6 .ur 1W¢mmnennI 37691. 06. .m. SM;
1/1.

1 n 6.0.7916»
CT. VF...» n15} rw 1731??“ Q.) EXP)»
+2.» Sgt...“ +1 .166... “mmyir 25H- 90.111.91.‘ 1.6521255 .155; ix... €41 Mm,» {1&1

#5006965.» 133? 0693 $54 .91.?! 9 591 96 J in; 2:1. $2.,va
1.6/81... 5 7555.16.14.69. <5... .11) n1: @3wa 11.2 v? .15.. 553?? 1.1.1.»... T3 .1

 




‘ , ' a
W? ghlo 3024‘ }QL% VJ; Shcﬁcw}. ALL“; Sa.,.,.,..h,<i,1’ 3A1!” YVZ’ 55““ RONA“? '
\ “WHC‘VM Mwwkx‘io “as!” W2 qumou'l (/1222 542 L, WW$* ex
W3 953 ﬁnger w‘n- 1990‘” W ‘ﬂr’ws (3)0“ 0» WM :J‘L“ “ﬁrwtucﬂk \ww H
‘94; W&~‘\‘L '- + W” 1M fmcd‘cﬁ'x. (:1 04‘ a, W Lune! f} r.—
Mug 0‘ 7"”)f‘409ﬂ1 0% (056-13 91¢”an (Mail/12a) OLLaJ SJMQUKZ «AQA 33“”?

New London County

( SOCIETY FOR THE PROTECTION OF ANIMALS Inc.

F366. Bank. St. New Lo
6, ndon, Conno nor

. u i .52.
Wﬁﬂ’t‘II—O L1 5123: (A «54 ' MIN) Vaccmt dvx £0 . u.\\.,3~:.x‘ av \\{kv:\ “\w‘o‘vﬂ
a 2k: antarwdﬁv“ cm **\W »

WG-0 Raf tw Mun m - (Q Cow. Jt’
OM §\«L cQsmvtvuo [’Q’f‘z (“Mg $14?) 2M Shoo/N1 a "Mack av “‘0 , _‘
6T Ham‘Hm wviﬂ-Lofﬁjkvwlk ‘

dJ/ﬁCéL ”W ‘3" $3 ENVY 1M, Luca
“M,“ yWM$aﬂ $1M} ﬁxf‘wk’jbzon‘p

‘ i
Hm}: 3.13 marl/1M m»! Vi» ‘H'WJ": wan/024 a, w“ /\m W1
V‘ bit/Ma OLLOM CTZ‘M :q/KO Mu‘k‘i We“ 1 “J"

v “L k. (VJ/7‘53 “Victuﬁ‘: \1)\4‘w ‘Hai imhvﬂ “Cm (930

'{o L»: \‘MCLST
%1\cqp 8“ L “and Mada? J‘ UMCQSS jcfvtﬂ" \HT @442 c

all 29% $0M W M M“ M M *
w ‘94“ij (,2ka 6 am
0““ YUM}? M ‘43 “A (1” 5:91; Mix!) 2229 \\%%Ju«:2§J
2» «y ‘ 5' “MW «jack ﬂick ¢~
2. . wan/wag ‘2 }\V’\

waif woo work?» \wﬂﬁk M42 1\é+‘c\:3lk ’ “(312234;

d\\0wlpo 94% \adw‘l 00‘ka 4M} ‘Vx‘lcﬂ {0’7}: IQ! Um “(jaw/b 5 5
£¢R (511%.. STAR m) “7 vak \LU ‘WHQ’V hﬁ ‘0‘" awakﬁ

cw “ﬁfty [WM W '
Qﬂ 911
(Q \Mm {:0 «km a \o,
Ab Mo MW 2:: tab M 4.,

w «QM \ c' {M 2
09 ova/2 ‘l ‘3”‘9 ﬁx

WW MXJKMJTL q $105§+

.q

Mﬂﬂﬂ” h M VWT‘M‘I ”'
CM V, 9‘ ”9 4?wa d1 L‘sMMn aﬁwﬁ
3c! cuff/«QCQ/‘a EWM MW

46‘1th bum». ‘9 kavww 3:5

 




if; :3 3%; 3; I; :3 s {63
_ , an géé 2,3 E,” s:

Eff wow; \Sw- ,
do as)? g ﬁr 3) if“? «a. 431 «a, avg

2i 4 #3; a, v23 3 3 9.... £3 3 32¢ g

..\fr,w¢<sau5w suré. ©¢¢V\J.,.Qwe\;%s {r&

‘. 12x .x 3% Jﬁ»§ .. v.34 3 a) ﬁgs Q.
A; ~33 «x v2; 4;. Hg. 4:3 a} _.:«_a f: 93g; g ‘
:i:§%§.é .3 ¥ :35 w, {a
ask/S v 123L333, 2 EMJE/ «3+ d 3
_ Eu; 2. an é A? y“ is a, J, an .1 46%»
dowuvam ma. ko/ A0 )é ngi 1% faTﬁddSWQv («3% JET/pa
{Sky 0%. ﬂap 350 do “MT/Q Ajﬂsf‘ym/ ujuq. qu/JQ. quJW

.32 i, (”so :2 g L: a? 03 33 av}?

 




 

Nen'London County ~ ¥\\‘.
SOCIETY FOR THE \\ ~~
PROTECTION OF ANIMALS INC. *

866 Bank St. New London, Conn.

Bulletin No. 2 AuguSt-Sept. 1964

In October 1964~your S.P.A. will be 1 yr. old.Although there is‘a
tremendous amount to do in New London County to help animals~we feel
‘we have done well.We have improved many animal conditions and helped
animals in many ways.We have brought to the attention of people the
need to help.0ur educational program now shows results that gladden
our hearts and give us the determination to persist and insist in our
work to help animals.' . x

We have made many friends and a few enemies-for we ARE a threat to
evil.We can take a set-back, for we now knOW'it is only temporary.

YOUR SUPPQR?,EAS DONE THIS

MEMBERSHIP The response has been good.So many tell.us they are so gla
to find a way to help animals.We now have members in 11 towns in N.L.
County,4 other Counties in Conn, and 3 states.The entire N.L. County
is not yet covered. '

We are proud of-our Junior S.P.A. Many teen—agers have joinediWe
hope to have this very important program entirely set up very soon.
The Junior S.P.A. means the animal future.

MEETINGS It is too expensive to mail notices of meotings.Regular meet-

ings are on the second Tuesday of every month—7;30 P.M. at above
address.Parking in rear. If you need transportation,let us know.Some
ENOSfrom your area will be glad to pick you up. WE NEED YOU AT MEET-
INGS. It is impossible to print all the important matters that are
constantly coming up. If you have a problemrbring it up at the meet-
ing.We need your ideas in our discussions.Here is where you can find
out in what way you can help;

Notices of meetings are announced in neWSpapers and on radio.

CRUELTY TO ANIMALS. CHAPTER 945,8ECSB-247 -.Any person who overdrives,
drives when"overloaded,overworks,tortures,deprives of necessary sus-
tenance,mutilates or cruelly beats or kills or unjustifiabily 1n-
jures any anima1,fails to give such animal proper care or neglects to
cage or restrain any such animal from doing injury to itself or to.
another animal or fails to supply any such animal with wholesome air,
food, and water,or unjustifiably administers any poisonous or noxious
drug or substance to any domestic animal or unjustifiably exposes any
such drug or substance5with intent that the same shall be taken by an
animal,or causes it to be done,or,having charge or custody of any
animal,inflicts unnecessary cruelty upon it or unnecessarily fails to
provide it with proper food,drink or protection from the weather or
cruelly abandons it or carries it or causes it to be carried in an
unnecessarily cruel manner,or sets on foot,instigates,promotes or.
carries on or performs any act as assistant, umpire or pr1n01pal in,
or is a wittness of,or in any way aids in or engages in the further—'
ance or,any fight between cocks or other birds,dogs or other animals,
premeditated by any person.owning,or having custody of,such birds or
animals,or fights with or baits,harasses or worries any animal for the
purpose of making it perform for amnsement,diversion or exhibition,
shall be fined not more than two hundred and fifty dollars or impris-
oned not more than one year or botho

WHY DID YOU PU? A DOG LICENSEE We bought ours to pay for protection
“'fafwaa§”a¢ag“fffﬁ thewcgubiékes listed above and to contribute to uhe

"~.’.L..'.

welfare of the dogs in our eemmmnity»

.- -.~.

DO YOU KNOW THE DOG LAW_? Cepies are available£tree of charge.write
gtaﬁeﬂﬁﬁgmwzrdeﬁﬁDexteriMobbs,Dept. of Agricul ure and.Natural
ResourceSQState Gapitol Bldga Hartford9 Conn.

T LAST'WE BEGIN TO SEE SOME OF THESE LAWS ENFORCED
I.The good people OT'Groton,when they saw a man Hit or kill a dog
with his ear,noted the license number and had the man arrested.
2.1n‘Waterford,a man was arrested on complaint of hlS neighbor,for
his dog being hopelessly tangled up in his leash-unable to reach
food or water. Dog was unlicensed.(We thinkgpeoplh'who do not
license their dogs do not care for animalsgand should not have

\

any pets.) 2 K
, g

 

 

 




Q
C)

3.1n‘New'London,a dog was taken away from.the owner because itdid
not receive proper care. '

4.The case of Hubert Cline of Bloomingdale Rd. Watcrford.,who shot
and killed his neighbors puppy.We are slill ashamed of this one.
Cline was fined only ZSpSWe,not HE,replaeed the gag, or tried to
Somehowgwe feel that if the neighbor were a man, instead of a
76 yr. old widow5living alone,things would have been different.

SPAXINGIOF FEMALE ANIMALS The tremendous amount of kittens was a big
problem during Spring and early summer. We were very lucky in finding
good homes for themJBut it was a hard job.Puppies are easier to place.
Remember- There are 48,000,000 families in the'U.S.
15;000,000 homeless dogs
25,000,000 homeless cats '

Puppies and kittens are being born at the rate of 10,000 per hour.
The usual fate of abandoned animals is a lingering death of starvat-
ion,disease or exposure. Altho there is a law against abandoning
animals-it is still common. Have your female pet spayed.If you have a
male dog and youknow there is an unspayed female in season in your
vicinity-tie that male dog to home.You are breaking the law and en~
dangering your dog if he is nunning loose,anyway. We help with hard—
ship cases in spaying. , T

ANNUAL H.S.U.S. LUNCHEON AND BUSINESS MEETING IN HARTFORD

This event,sponsered by the Conn.Branch of theHumane Society of the
United States,is a great help to all Conn. groups.We sent 2 delegates.
Subject was"An ideal Animal Welfare Program and HOW'TO Achieve It?
This is also a chance for different groups to become acquainted with
each other and their work.The Hon. Joseph N.Gill,Comm. of Agriculture
and Natural Resources spoke on animals and was on the panel at the
question and answer period.

GROTON CIRCUS-Spensered by the Groton Rotary Club
We received many complaints about the dog act in this circus.The
owner-trainer of this act uses a whip as a threat to make the dogs
performm This is training by the cruelty method instead of kindness
and reward.The dogs performed with their ears and tails down.Employees
of the circus complained that the owner beat the dogs later if he was
not satisfied with their performance. We stated these facts and our”
objections to the president of the Groton.Rotary Club but recedved no
reply. We wrote again and asked for a statement for this bulletin.and
received a reply from Ira Schwartz,sec'y,saying they inquired from
all Rotarians who were present at the performancees as to this matter
during,before and after the show. To their knowledge,there was not a
single instance of maltreatment as far as the dogs were concerned.
How-ever-he agreed"any report of maltreatment should be looked
into but to our knowledge—there has not been any"??????????????

BE KIND T0 ANIMALS'WEEK-to remind people to be kind to animalsonot

only this week but all year 'round.The co-operation and encouragement

of EVERYONE was indeed heartening.

We wish to extend our thanks to

Mayor Joseph.Regan of New London for his proclamation.

Mayor T. Haggerty of Groton for his proclamation.

The 150 merchants who displayed posters.

The Junior S.P.A.,who distributed animal care literature in 5 shopping
centers.

The New London Day,the Norwich Bulletin and the Hartford Courant-for

their articles on animals,drawing attention to the Week. '

Radio Stations WSUB,WNLC AND'WIGH for their periodical announcements.
We are so glad to say there are so very many kind people in NGW'

London County.

OUR PRESIDENT,L.B. JOHNSQN again and again lifts his beagles by the
ears in public,despite the protests of so many citizens,whom.he is
supposed to represent.We can think of no good excuse to pick these
beagles up by their ears in public or privately.We think it is a very
bad example to children and encourages cruelty to animals in callous
adults and thoughtless children.It is certainly not the kind of conducf'
becoming to er expected from.the No.1 Citizen of the United States.

How would Mr. Johnson like to be picked up by the ears?

. - Ed.ar.Hoover,of the F.B.I. lists "cruelty to animals" as the
’r em.en h s ist of major juvenile offenses.

 




. . _ s 0
gun HOPELESS FIGHT AGAINST THE hb‘d‘ 'o ' '
’Our Ibgislatcrs in Hartfﬁfd‘votedggé§ﬂ%g§$%¥¥¥gé%g%éafter admitting
the ma: oritv often was (15 to 1) Elmer it. Conn. television
news,that night, reported that sham THEIR APPROVAL! Another
TV news reporter commented, after his announcement that “Eﬁn's best
friend could take no more- he turned and bit his masters 'We do not
approve of this bill. Members will receive a very important paper
concerning it shortly. We do not want OUR dogs in OUR pounds that
WE pay for,used as a cheap source of supply for research experimented
However—we must now let them.be used. We can only hope the promises
of proper inspection etc. are being kept. Are they?

 

BridgeportiHospitalgBridgeport

Chas. Pfizer & Co.-Groton - '
Hamilton Standard Division;United Aircraft,Windsor Locks
Hartford.Hospital,Hartford.

HOSpital of St. Raphael, New Haven *

John B. Pierce Fondation,New'Haven

Larkin Clinic;Waterbury

Ste Francis Hospital, Hartford

St. mar‘y s Hospital,Waterbury

St. Vincent's Heepital, Bridgeport
University of Gonna-Storrs

Waterbury Hospital, Waterbury

Yale University; New Haven

SiPyAm ANNUAL PICNIC We met members that we had worked with by mail

or phone only.Everyone attending told us how much they enjoyed getting
togetherand asked us to have more such events. The fun auction‘WAS

fun and we made 48 @-

We wish to thank the Groton Elks for allowing us to use their lovely

new grounds.

FOR PIT FIGHTINGzilizzzlll During the picnic,a beautiful,white pure-

bred German Shepard was brought to us that needed a good home.0wner, '

who had other dogs,had been_given this one,but could not care for

'them.all.This man told us that he had been approached in-Groton,where

he is employed,by someone wno wanted to buy this dog for Egggggﬁgggg:_

AUCTIONING OFF ANIMALS The Groton Kiwanis Club,at their recent auctio
of "anything and everything" auctioned off animals.Wedo not think this
was donewith awareness of the cruelty involved.We want to think these
people thought they were finding good homes for animals.We received
complaints protesting-This week we had a call for help on one of
these animals. A.6 yr. old boy felt so sorry for a 2 or 3 week old
puppy that was being auctioned off that he bought it.The boy's mother
felt so sorry for the boy and the dog that she tried to keep it,but
after a few weeks she called and asked if we could find a better home
for it. She has small children and other pets and felt it was unfair
to the puppygwho needed more care than she could give it.This puppy
'was lucky. What of the others? We have written to the Kiwanis people
pointing out these facts.

So many animals are bought as cheap toys for children-to be dis-
carded when the child tires of them.£s long as there is a place to
"dump" these animals, these cruelties will continue and multiply.

The ONLY answer is education and the Spaying of all female animals
whose owners do not have good homes waiting to take the new litter.

PLACEMENT CAN BE HEARTACHE S.P.A. member interviewed man wanting a
PUPPY.Man made very good appearance5was very convincing in his love
for animals.This member was so careful that she checked his car.He

had a clean blanket in it-all ready for the dog.He was given the dog.

When the same member later checked on this doggshe found it horribly

neglected and its spirit hrskenaThe dog was immediately removed and is
now in a proper home. Here are some of the calls we receive;

"I want a dog. I am.in the navy and it cost too much to ship my dog

here from.0hio¥

"I went a watchdog for my filling stations ~This one was going to
tie the dog outdoors for lite-never to know a home.

"If you ddh't find a home for the stray kitten I found on the high-
way- I will run it over with my car" We saved the kitten but
nevered figured this man out.

We want to say that we do find most people are kind.But we must admit

there are others. Ignorance is the biggest cause.

 




4
.. WWWEWD amp: mam "'

Skinny kittenofound by SEPOA. mentville member in shopping center-had
been there 5 days.A true animal lover took this one.

Dog in Vet's office waiting to be put to sleep-S.P.A. member spoke to
the owners,who had tried to find a home for it."Brownie" lives
happily in New London nowx

Dog that had been a "TOY"—now too big and is a "PEST"-We suspect this
one had even been taken for a "walkﬁNow lives with children Who
love him.

Puppy abandoned under porch 4 days- Had 2 homes already-abandoned
twice-But for the last time4We shall see to that;We were not able
to obtain names of the people who abandoned this animal, as we
'would have had them pay for their crime.

This list could go on and on.

THE BRIDGEPORT DOG POUND copied from.Conn. H.S.U.S. August bulletin
H.SJU.S. and Bridgport P.A.W.S;-have asked that corrective steps be
taken on the Bridgport pound.
Here is what is wrong with the pound; . ,
l.0nly one warden.(New'Haven-samev pOpulation has 5 full time wardens)
2.Pound open one hour per day.-(0ther Conn. towns of comparable size
or smaller are open several hours in.A.M. and P.M.)
5. Of 505 dogs impounded Jan. thﬂu June 1964-Only 98 were advertised
as required by law. ' .
4.0f 505 impounded gogs,the ul timate fate of 455 is unknown-because
neither warden nor City Hall have permitted scrutiny of records.
H Such scrutiny is invited in other communities. ,
5.0f 505 impounded dogs-only 56 were reclaimed or adopted.Compare
with,Ngeraven-same population-848 impounded dogs-554 reclaimed or
a opte 8 ‘
6.0nly 2750 licensed dogs in this city of 158,000.(Compare Fairfield-
population 50,000- 5800 licensed dogs. , ,
Conn.'s Lieutenant GOVernor Samuel J. Tedesco is also Mayor of Bridgpor'
rtehas refused to discuss this situation with both Humane Sbcieties.
WRITE The Hon. Samuel J. Tedesco,Lieut. GOV. of Conn.,City Hall,
ridgeport-ask for staff and administrative improvements to protect
the Bridgeport dogs and dog owners rights.Urge him,as the No. 2 man
of Conn. to set an example of humanitarian action.Ask him.t0 appoint
a citizens pound committee at once to study and make recommendations
for corrective action.Ask your friends and relatives to write.

‘EAVE‘YOU VISITED'YOUR DOG POUND LATELY? Take along some cookies for
these dogs that will be so glad to see you.Does your pound come up to
the standards required by law? There is NO reason why all pounds
should not have a large sign,telling what hours the warden is at the
Pound.If he is part-time,the fixed time can be at his conviencedwhen
he feeds the dogS.If the pound is at the dead end of a road- there
should be a Sign at the entrance to the road to direct peoplegSome
places do not have either sign.We are constantly asked for this imp
formation.People tell us ,because they cannot contact some wardens
they give up and buy a dog, instead.These two signs would save many d
dogs.

Because printing and mailing is so expensive,we'print less but long-
er bulletins. After you have read this bulletin,please pass italong
to someone who may be interested. -

We need.more people to work. Come to the meeting and find out
what you can.do.If you cannot be active,your contribution will help
to advance this worthy cause.

WE NEED YOUR SUPPORT TO SUCCEED
§;§A§E PRINT CLEARLY

 

DATE _ WPHONE N0.__

 

ADDRESS” ._

r! T rpv
', ' \ -’_, _——— -
u v -- A - ..'-_- w,‘.w~&11~"1M‘3f--"~J‘"J“ m“‘”'-“‘ ““1“"

 

 

 

w mm'~.M , ."—.x- .4 .44

PLEASE mm OIL ME ES A LMEER OE THE SOCIETY EOE THE PROTECTlON 0F
CHE CK. ONE ‘ - . PNUMALS
VOTING IMIIBER 959$th PER. YR.
. ASSOCIATE Emma L 23.0615}; PER YR .
JUNIOR MEIVISEEePLEESE'STATE AGE 1. 00s PER YR.
(UNDER 18) "“'"""

 

MAIL TO S.P'.A. 866 BANK ST. NEW LONDON, CONN.

 




‘ghrmary 1;

U

“I“ .1: Iii-“r" n V 7' " ' 1 < J as, ‘g. . ‘ _ ’k ‘

,‘ L‘»; J fang 2 ~’.— . .: ‘ ‘ . . f L i 1’»; t 2' . a , ‘13-, , V ’ E,‘ ‘3

‘3 u _‘_~, 3-2; ,I. _..1 , . . ., ' ‘ . . ., 1" “I ' l ' ~ ‘ K . )6
vﬂihﬁﬁ m z,#; {w wnrg #52 5 ; ,.far

nua,‘ﬁza. ﬁrmmkings,
%0 come 0n thaﬁe
“ 3mm are, make a

3H

« \ r i' I. l ' ":‘ :
‘ ,--. v _ _ , r J .
j" 2;" .L 533.» a? in

1

"5
a.

R

ylug
£3 (“WM 3:3 01365 ,
' neaaﬁsmyy funﬁs
Jami” fill as
r raﬁarter an

m
5

fifu’i’ml ‘3 .

. ‘ we 1*
in”; {on
a. w n

r+w.3wa
$2353"

5"»?!

:3: s) n 1: r 1113.7: “i: i. {m
ﬁﬁﬂ jﬁin forces
.haﬁ yam will.

fut: ‘ﬂ. ' 3! “ .1
..ars,L?r-;z 1:5 1;} .

Chrigtine‘ﬁtEV&n3
.?rﬁﬁiﬁ$nt

 




CANADIAN SOCIETY FCR‘AEIMhL CARE

Secretary~Treasurer,
Mrs StBVBDS, 148 Belmont Ave,
President, Ottawa,l,0nt.
Animal Welfare Institute,
22 East 17th St, July 12,1964,
New York,N.Y.
U.S.A.

Dear Dear'Mrs Steyens:

In your reply to the memo regarding the
3rd annual meeting to be held in the Queen's Hotel
Montreal,P.Q October 23 ~24 1964 you indicate&
your wish to read a paper at the meeting.

'we do appreciate your interest and service
to the Society and it's member and wish to thank you
very sincerely.

The annual meeting tino is drawing near
and to assist the Programme committee and myself
would you be kind enough to forward a copy
of your taper to reach my hand not later than
September 50,1964.

If you could send abstract before that date or even
the paper it would assist us no end.

Thanking you for your kind
consideration.

Yours very respectfully,

E.P.Gregory.
Secretary~Treasurer.

 




X”
c if) , "“ I; f“ ”/3 .4
my! £L«{i{£_,{f ”11“]! Q - , ﬁfaij‘dx’i a

214 So. bwight otreet
Jackson, hichigan

July l, 1964
Dear hrs. Stevens:

as soon as possible, I will send you a photostat copy of the letter
that you have requested in your letter of the 30th. Meanwhile, the
letter reads as follows:

Oak Dale Farm a Kennel Robert A. Everett
Laboratory Animal Dealer Owner

a.a. 5, Decatur, Indiana . Dan R. Everett
Phone 3~2097 Manager

hember of " Laboratory Animal Dealer Society”and
”Animal Care ?amel.“

September 28, 1961
Dear sir:

i am writing you in regards to your stray and unwanted dogs
which you handle through your County Dog Found. ﬂy brother and l
are in the business of buying dogs for Hedical Research and were
wondering if you would be interested in.selling them for such
purposes.

We would be able to come once a week and pick them up at your
pound as we have other pick-ups in hichigan. We would be able to
pay you or your County 6 1.50 for each dog we could use, which is
anything from 20 lb and up. They have to be good healthy dogs.

We also buy full grown cats and pay .50 each for them.

Hoping to hear from you in the near future and thanking you for
your time and cooperation.

Sincerely;

Dan Everett
Manager.

Animals Reptiles Fouls

Common Dogs Frogs White King Pigeons
Cats Turtles Barn Pigeons

 




ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE LINCOLN HIGH SCHOOL
22 East 17th Street h 4400 INTERLAKE AVENUE N.
New York 8, N ,Y , §EATTLE 3, WASHINGTON

Dear Friend,

Some time ago we sent you a c0py of ”Humane Biology Projects ."
We are now preparing an article on humane education part of which will
deal with the place of humane education in the high school curriculum .
We would be extremely grateful if you could find time to let us have your
comments. Also, if you and your students have developed any new pron
jects that would be suitable for inclusion in the next edition of ”Hurnane
Biology Projects, " we hope that you will let us know.

Sincerely,

Christine Stevens
President

 

Has "Humane Biology Projects" been a useful teaching aid?
How could it be improved? ,,

',I 1) [I v [3.]

.4 ‘ '4‘" it ~‘. 1’ '_. my!" ‘

1"] V 7 t I J.) (\m‘
r /’

.5

Do the projects in "Humane Biology Projects" appeal to your students ?
Are there any special favorites ? -

.0”. "
5 :\ .l ‘ Mr ~~~~~
M" w " ~20
-,/’ ’ no

In your experience, is the students' general attitude towards animal
life changed or modified by your biology course, and , if so, how?

A W
‘i! i; . I / /
M‘ . f . .9
«’7. '-‘~7';¥~-( 14/ c ‘/
f):

3

C omments:

‘7 I, 1,,
,/ I’IZ’QML/‘f/ 5/ 7/ ”4;"
V5

/

I. ~ v"
1' X
; w, _ v _ . — w a ”I ‘ .
I » ”"1 I I I ""' J , " '
’ " > ' . j , ,- I ,r/. v' . 4‘ ’ d 1 f / / /
. ., l ,1 , l! !_ ’ , , 4 _. 7' . ﬂ, . ,, . , > I r’/
t /.J , D , , . . , ‘, [I I 1- ‘ ‘ ‘ 1 ‘ . f; , , . . , ’,/" h V
‘ _ I V . . , ,l'
t. / 1,. , A , /
4.

xx r , ' M.
3 / 'I'J /\ /3// 1 ‘, It!“ 'rfi' . / (ﬁ ,‘yww’y’z'i” / ‘A
’ ’C/ / [3" 3/7 / (. //C.'7/}// 5 L," / 1‘ / 4. a ‘ “

.m<

.1

/,

1/ .
f, a f ' I'M/‘- r. .
,. A. /’ l} ,. ’ '7 1" ("’ ’
,', ‘t,’ 7"” i- » ‘4. ,3 7_,.«" a '
.. '1 x / .1 / « ,1 .- /,,« V -44
1‘ '5.r . I J ‘. g / 2/1, , - if ’ j / I’ //. 5 I7, 7

x4
a]

y"

 




ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
22 East l7th Street
New York 89 N OY 0

Dear Friend,

Some time ago we sent you a cOpy of "Humane Biology Projects ."
We are now preparing an article on humane education part of which will
deal with the place of humane education in the high school curriculum 0
We would be extremely grateful if you could .find time to let us have your
comments ., Also, if you and your students have developed any new prom
jects that would be suitable for inclusion in the next edition of. "Humane
Biology Projects, ” we hope that you will let us know.,

Sincerely,

Christine Stevens
President

 

Has "Humane Biology Projects" been a useful teaching aid?
How could it be improved?

Do the projects in "Humane Biology Projects" appeal, to your students ?
Are there any special favorites ?

In your experience, is the students' general attitude towards animal
life changed or modified by your biology course, and 3 if so, how?

C omments:

 




92,3; $9»??? %.T+Fma§
§\p%§£}. A
W§:?£§£

.ZBLNf 9r? _
(Cog FE»: :2 994%‘

Arr fééﬁ zasbfﬁsfbh.
3, 9:? if by? 4 p; EFL. 35$ +59». ?
c81k+u A .. . 9kg 470,6 E..+ryD}...§¢p boqoiikz.
Egyugdookvwl , r:.b5>1 13% W>J\ Ex W§QF5I ;
:.4CX up ggav ﬂu. but? .61 ‘3... .023 a Sari.

WM: 1. ,6 9b»? ”$5914? bet, (E €_ 82.er

.7473)». Ara. xFFRb9V€o£b 0.2.», 995.7 95.9 49% 4 is:
+ fa Dbpqvowgﬂoaﬂvx FE. “Hr—k}; D93

¢.7 .
PWXVFIZLMEM E .
5f? r+ E». 499,... .1. H; E 90+?P7
9. pear T 5.6% 9?? o, gag?
0)? *0. ~95! TL 115...)» H5 (690 ’11 0.05.5.7»)...on 0....) P:T..+FBP.

Q9987 gore marry: a??? Fur/9%.? €6.52? bénﬁ_m_

{3%. $369.?» K? 0.9)?) 3.6% g; 9/
@6ny ya! At, a??? Agra?»

9?? 6. 59¢. km. 678 kiwi}
\Nnbtrol E 7
ﬁgs; PCIE.

 




   

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
22 East 17th Street
New York 8. N. Y .

Dear Friend.

Some time ago we sent you a copy of “Humane Biology Projects .”
We are now preparing an article on humane education part of which will
deal with the place of humane education in the high. school. curriculum.
We would be extremely grateful if you could find time to let us have your
comments. Also. if you and your students have develOped any new prom
jects that would be suitable for inclusion in the next edition of ”Humane
Biology Projects, ”‘ we hope that you will. let us know.

 
    
        
    
   

Sincerely.

 
   
   
 
 

Christine Stevens
President

 

1) Has ”Humane Biology Projects” been a useful teaching aid?
How could it be improved?

    

. 3 .. .. .7 ,5 .11 ,5 ,. {- 4, . .
#:5555114; 5/4., '43. , i 1 05 5:25.. 5 .4 74525:: :5’ :34... awr‘ 4.55 43.145.455.554?“ 4:4.
L1 5.1 U‘

            
    

55 A .. v I!
,3"? j 7 j. i I] ;, ,.
(EVA-(XV r5353 <§4TZI€AJI<J£I {‘1} LxI’Lr.
D

  
 

2) Do the projects in ”Humane Biology Projects" appeal to your students ?
Are there any special favorites ?

   
       
    

x :1! 5';- i: ..L. _, ’ 4 r. ,;g,_ .. my", " ,1“, ﬁt.
”if,” "" 7:”:- -' if?! ' v" (:05 5/ » :31”; 5(3— "7 -'"1.. r/f'n 4U.) "754‘ ’81 ’ I,“ G LI {:4 4/} 1,1, ['77, """ M I”: .49 /, 47/14,, (EAL, .3? AA ’5. {:3 (:0 4:10
If: 54 44,573.,1431’“ «32:1 5355.55. «510 xii-«‘5' :5 54-4 3455‘ 4,, 5,1515%} er': 4-1:“, a 1/2. 55541;; :5 r4: 4’5 4M:

  
 

    
 

3) In your experience. is the students” general attitude towards animal
life changed or modified by your biology course, and if so. how?

        
      
        

7'
. .. .,-. g . _
5 1."? [15.4“ (.3 i 34;” ”£444th 1“" :/L,- gill... ”iii/I, I?! “T”?! wait 2’2- (:de ’5 g,1 ”‘3‘!” 017' «'1 :12}? AJ "3/914”, 1107”,?! (“rfo 6
f .. . H W .4» f . f 1". if ‘ ..'.. ”,9. /
I‘f’h 4,525,125 5.133? '52’3-4535354 f" 5’54”?) 5".” I: {,3 5573.53.51? If.” ’3 ’ 5 ’Z. 1?"; 23!} (34" ,9 " 7 V '9 5573' "I510 iii. I"? Uta-"55$ I :5 (/53, ’ 1 u’Z 7’
“if? 512/30P3575575132=31515ISL...

  
  

   

Comments:

       
      
 

'1 7"... 5' ,3 ~'- I ,. _. “a.“ .. ,5‘ .v’ {1. Z i T {‘1' _. y 1: ~5w,ff.., \ f "25!
“a (5434345.... 5:42: 5.35»: :’ ,0 i 5436:. 135) 5;: 11"!sz 414. «’5 5.51;! ’ 534.1155) ’ ’M" ’54’ "' “5’53" ”‘3’? "5 "'77“:
‘_1 I
4. ' 7 I I 1' . " f?
4'. .14,- n4, was” ’5'». may 5/345 .15? 1714.55.55.54, 4 5,451: 4A. 5? U?’ 4 e. {as z 4235‘“ 514 is ’43

:5

    
   

1‘?
I'm», .15,” IA." w}.




If ASTERN ILLINOIS UNIVERSITY—"ﬂ

Mmmss'ron, ILLINOIS
LL WE LFARE INSTITUTE

:2 East 17th Street
Jew York. 89 N. Y 0

Dear Friend»,

Some time ago we sent you a copy of "Humane Biology Projects 0"
We are now preparing an article on humane education part of which will
deal with the place of humane education in the high. school. curriculumc
We would be extremely grateful if you could find time to let us have your
comments. Also» if you and your students have developed any new prom
jects that would be suitable for inclusion in the next edition of ”Humane
Biology Projects» ”' we hOpe that you will let us knowo

Sincerely?

Christine Stevens
President

 

Has ”Humane Biology Projects” been a useful teaching aid?
How could it be improved?

Do the projects in ”Humane Biology Projects” appeal to your students ?
Are there any special favorites ?

In your experience? is the students“ general. attitude towards animal
life changed or modified by your biology course, andg if so? how?

Comments:

9/ 42, 2,64. km» 2 ' a&%JJ/' , ﬁw ”may Mm}?

£é¢mﬁ¢4 (5%,ZZ MM deejay waive. WMVL’»Z§;.¢ , ﬂu. aunt,
ﬂﬁﬁazx lama "ea: «4.24 :ziéw 44%,;sz 5.1/ng «W

 




6m 67%.» .2224; gag/awg/gé’eyw «wewo ,7
{bl/{4.5V ﬁ/Wé‘rdA—gﬁfwjﬁw M ygﬁwyﬂ/ ..w%¢4;mdwﬁ£wﬁww?K/®.

Mag:wjglmm W “Ila. (CVM€C~Q%;</'€:M {Wwﬁgwa
4404944“ ‘6 ' “Ml/64., éémag? ‘mf’ ’i/W7 ham—1;? 6 wawﬂﬂ¢r€mj ..
., 1/“; Wajzww 9. 4va pig/mm 1%» 27:22.7 ,_./W..?‘ ?
r , 7 . t . . M
4 z f I ‘ A Q... : ?,   ’

W 1 ‘ .~
/Z/€. ’“w M w;,‘--—»W‘o£: C3 ‘ a ‘M . ” '

Qﬁw ‘ “-7- ..
01'1me ’ i /
WL/ﬁ‘ijc/‘éi

46/ ﬂ. ﬂMQ
57' w w M56412"
”Zed; .. I

 

 




ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
22 East 17th Street
New York 8;. N. Y1

Dear Friend)

Some time ago we sent you a copy of “Humane Biology Brojectsﬂ'
We are now preparing an article on humane education part of which will
deal with. the place of humane education in the high school. curriculum 1,
We would be extremely grateful if you could find time to let us have your
comments. Alsoi if you and your students have develOped any new prom
jects that would be suitable for inclusion in the next edition of. ”Humane
Biology Brojectsa ” we hOpe that you will let us know1

Sincerely?

Christine Stevens
President

 

l) Has "Humane Biology Projects" been a useful teaching aid?
How could it be improved? 1 . ~

5 .
l

2) Do the projects in ”Humane Biology Brojects" appeal to your students?

Are there any special favorites? , . . . _. 1,, ,1/1

a a I;
a a . I 1 ,1 , . , . \
r z . '9 "~ .Is * 9 ‘. ~ , , .. W . r v , , ,1, ~/
\ . .. 1 1 Q . v ‘. .3 h

3) In your experience, is the students” general attitude towards animal
life changed or modified by your biology course, and» if so? how?

 




 




Q

i
I
l

SOUTHERN METHODIST UNIVERSITY \

DALLAS 22’ TEXAS \ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
, ‘ 22 East 17th Street

New York 8, N. Y.

DEPARTMENT OF BIOLOGY

Dear Friend,

Some time ago we sent you a copy of "Humane Biology Projects ."
We are now preparing an article on humane education part of which will
deal with the place of humane education in the high school. curriculumo

We would be extremely grateful if you could find time to let us have your
Also, if. you and your students have developed any new prom

comments . ‘
jects that would be suitable for inclusion in the next edition of. “Humane

Biology Projects. ”' we hOpe that you will let us knowo
Sincerely,

Christine Stevens
President

1) Has ”Humane Biology Projects” been a useful teaching aid?
How could it be improved?

This pamphlet will prove to be alimited teaching add, for the simple reason
Not any

that it is'one—sided' in its scope, intent, and presentation.
experiments (except possibly the one on Danhnia) involves any real modification

of an animal; there are not any experiments involving surgery, implantations,
Do the projects in “Humane Biology Projects” appeal to your students ?

Are there any special favorites ?
And most improperly, at least

dissection of living parts, anesthesia, etc.
by inference in the fact that they are not included in the lieu of

projects, such experiments are branded as inhumane.

3) In your experience,9 is the students“ general attitude towards animal
life changed or modified by your biology course, and» if. so, how?
oe P. Harris, Jr.
Professor of Biology
Southern Methodist University

Comments:

 




. That’s My
Ear,Deer §

Cl-utching a handful of ‘ ~
‘straw,' two-year-old Pete
a Dignam pays no attentio
as a. baby deer lickshis ear
Farmers found the littl
7de'e'r‘ abandoned in a corn:
,field and they turned‘him
over to the .zoo in Chester,
England, The deer has sue
a gentle disposition that his
keepers allow children into
’ hiscage. Peter was so happy
'with his new-fwnd ’ friend
_ that his mother had a, tough,
-,:time trying Lt? persuade the
‘ boy .tosay~ goodby and leave
the cage.‘- ' ' * -'

/

 

 




4...;

 

4L ()1) 7% N \M

(ix-"£130u “Cl-{hii'k‘nn f ‘ I " EV? 4.“? Q .5": :
‘/ if, .u > s e ‘, '1' ' r ' ‘L : ', 1 .I‘ U "- '
4 0331.0 a U"? n - . w:

a. as, 5; 97?) r

. a- , . . i: Eve 1 “0N
; Vmchcator colummst Esther Hamllton has won the; E3 TH H AM L' ‘
ﬁred Myers Humane Award for her Interest 111 animals; I H i: \/0 U (\i (,2 S [O "V" /\I V/I‘LD’ CATé/Q
fit was announmd at a meeting- of the Animal Charitygg .r 4 “GS __ (a \g‘ C) H’ O
f . - 1 1 H) '7 ' a‘
League, Inc, Monday mght at the Elks Club. 2}; VQ O ‘V (C ”U ' r
3 3.11s. Jean LNteCIure Kelty, (ll-(€613 between man’s ”Kt"
rector of the league and 1110,111-gmm,F forms of life and hr
.-;~r (of the Humane Society ofgity to construct a \V(_)l"E-:f.,

 

1
~
1

., . a , ‘ “”5, .-w .
; .‘mted btates. Hume on ‘lzleﬁm‘ng

.

H
L
1 \
WW ,.. > 5 "'4, ' - - >' - 7' ' n" if: a 953‘; :w
I wrtm'e oi the Humane Move— : “‘m,” hp‘xylvzrs “f“ . ""
Zl‘lont ., {Mrs Kehy alrtac-nxx; 1:19 My
é ‘ _ .. . 30“ animals for ab exo-~:‘:m;.>:';za
’ ,‘I's' annl‘on. nnab] . to '1 —; . .
’ p ' ' i H _ f L. _ . e f (p :{Illd the praetnze o: gummy; ;m'«.';gx,;..
pour :n. the meetmfz, W111 revolve: ‘ .N ,, _ .' .‘L .
« . . ‘ a .. 11133:}...115 as. ljt\li1n‘1xA\/LK .3L1.Jn,h.
in trophy with a mounted Ilg‘m'e; Q‘r 91301? in f, 0‘ Us q)‘ ,. '3
. . a‘ r Li 3 . \', ,Li‘\’ I .i. ‘1‘?qu
., :2 how-29': dog, send Unrenrei. _ t - .,, . w x. r.
. , . V : , _ r _ mg, dlllnld..\, hajih‘t; LJlt‘IL’ -.
.mndm, trustee 01. the league. . . a . _ 1..» ,1
' V’s-w Hamilton Wis hondud' m the D'b' OVGI '“J'UUU’UUA 3
A .53 (_ . [2,, l), . ‘ ~— I. :-
;._ _ , , ‘. . , ‘ _ a , L.‘home1es:< dogs and 20,000.000‘
m1 pxomotmg the welfare or homeless eats She said if pett
:he animals and defendino them‘ ' ‘ ’ " . 1’3?- a"
‘ ‘ *5 owners spayed thelr ammmsg v”
there would be fewer homelessfﬁ
animals.

“We want to dispel the idea

I

and in various talks.
Awards Honorary Directorships

The award (-ommemorates the -
. ‘ ‘ n 1 1 I v rs n't 10v»
date Fred Myers, one of the that a 1n a 0 e do

founders of the Hmnane So- people, sa1ers.‘Kelty. kmd-

é
1:1,;gjainst cruelty in her column
5

5.

ness . to animals makes better}?
people.”
Perc Kelty. president of the a

(fiety Of United States.

Rirhard Henley, vice presi-
dent of the league, presented
honorary directorships in thee
AOL to Mrs. Carl Ullman. Lind-t
iey Viekers. Atty. Hugh Mc-i§
Nnmee of Cleveland and Mrs.
A'ZcNomee. .

About 75' persons attended}-
the program. In her talk Mrs..-
Iielty said the- humane concept;

is dedicated to reverence for all ;

life. Sh said t‘ re ‘ a correla- :
(K ,M

 

 

league, presided.

 

 




UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
FOREST SERVICE

WASHINGTON 25, D.C.
IN REPLY REFER To

5330 (2200)

MAY 1 9 1954

Miss Christine Stevens, Secretary

Society for Animal Protective Legislation
745 Fifth Avenue

New York 22, new York

Dear Miss Stevens:

This refers to your letter of May 8, 1964, regarding control of horses on
lands administered by the Forest Service in New Mexico.

There is a problem with trespassing horses on the Carson National Forest

in New Mexico. These horses are not, as you apparently believe, wild
horses. They are horses generally having little or no value which have

been turned out on public lands and have congregated in the rougher, more
inaccessible areas of the National Forest where, because of their small
value, the owners have not put out the effort to remove them. Attempts

by Forest officers to corral these anhmals in the rough country have not
been successful. Requesting permission under Secretary of Agriculture's
authority to eliminate this trespass horse problem by humanely destroying
the horses has been contemplated. The work is done in accordance with the
Act of September 8, 1959 (73 Stat. 470; 18 U.S.C. 47), which provides that
aircraft and motor vehicles cannot be used and the work must be done in

the most humane manner possible. However, at this time no action.has been
taken to apply the closure authorities. The local Forest officers are still
encouraging private individuals to gather these horses and terminate the tres-
pass a

The Forest Service is responsible for properly managing the National Forests.
Control of the anrmals grazing on the Forests is necessary if overuse and
depletion of soil and vegetative resources are to be prevented. Wildlife
habitat is often one of the important resources that is depreciated when
grazing by horses is not preperly controlled.

A wild horse refuge has been established in the State of Revada on public
‘lands. These horses are apparently the true wild horses or mustangs in which
you are interested and are being protected by this refuge under the jurisdic-
tion of the Department of the Interior. we do not believe the horses on the
Carson National Forest come into this category.

we can appreciate your sympathy for the wild horses. ‘We hope this informa-
tion will be helpful.
Sincerely yours,

R. M. DeNIO, Director
Division of Range Management

 




C7549 SHOREHAM

eonnecticutﬂvenue at edged (Street
Washington 8, D. C.

Deal" bars , Stevens 3

Encloeed is my letter latroducing you
to Dr oordley. I hepe he will be as sympa+hetic when
talkiné with you as he has always been with me as a pa~

a

tient, I also ﬁcpe that you will q¢prove all 1 have Bald.

Thank you for tke Christmas card, i a;
sorry to say 1 have failed entirely in do ng my part that
way this year. So I can only say I tope you had a happy
time at Ann Arbor and that lgje may ﬁring you many Closelnge.
And I hope you had a good meeting with Secretay_Pumpbrey.

Yours very eincerely

ﬁlm!

 




Lida Newborny
430 Prospect Avenue,
Mount Vernon, New York

THEY HELP MAKE COMPASSION MAEDATORY

The sheep hung by one hind leg, while the slaughterman at the
meat packing plant in a nidnestern town made ready to prepare it for
market. Dead? Not only was the animal still alive, it was fully
conscious. Moments before, it had been yanked off its feet by an
iron shackle on a heavy chain, and, bloating loudly, was pulled
taut and slid along an nassembly line" with other frightened beasts.

The man then held it firmly by one ear, and plunged his
butcher knife into its throat. The bleating stopped.

In another plant, a knocker swung a heawy'sledge hammer over
and over, attempting to stun a bellowing steer, before one of his
blows finally took effect. Elsewhere, long lines of conscious,
shackled animals were hoisted upside down, while they bled to death.

These and other documented stories made humanitarians renew
their campaigns to force meat packers to use more humane treatment.
A dozen Eur0pean countries ~ even the Fiji Islands in the South
Pacific - had such laws. But not America.

Only a relatively few concerns, among them.Hormel & 00., Oscar

 




 

Lida Newborry
.430 Prospect Avenue,
mount Vernon, New York

- 2 - .
Mayer & 60., the Seitz Packing Co., Kingan & 00., had.innovated their
own more humane methods. By far the great majority of packers
continued to kill food animals in century—old ways.

In 1955 Senator Hubert Humphrey introduced a bill for
mandatory humane slaughter of animals. To help pass this bill,
the Society for Animal Protective Legislation was born. It is
an affiliate of the Animal Welfare Institute, but, unlike other
humane societies, this one is registered to lobby.

"No animals need die in agony to provide the nation with
neat," they wrote. ”Humane methods are available for slaughtering.
But most food animals will continue to-suffer . . . unless a
compulsory humane slaughter law is passed by Congress."

Public opinion, they said, requires public knowledge, and
authoritative letters to the right people will greatly aid in
getting a bill.passed. The Society has a mailing list of
between 4,000 and 5,000, who in turn contact still others.

"Many humane groups join with us in working for animal
protection bills, "said their Secretary, Christine Stevens, who
also is President of the Animal welfare Institute. "Those who
oppose humane legislation are the peeple who would be regulated
by the legislation proposed, or who have some other vested

interest in preventing humane legislation from passing.“




Lida Newberny
430 Prospect Avenue,
wount Vernon, New York

- 3 -

The Federal Humane Slaughter Act was finally passed in 1958

and sent into effect in 1960. It requires that animals be made
insensible to pain before being slaughtered, "by rapid and
effective"means.

”Congress, “ the Society later reported, "received more mail
from citizens asking for its passage than on any issue last year."

The Society next turned its attention to the plight of the
wild horses and mustangs that roam the west. Bands of them were
rounded up by airplane and truck, and shipped to the canneries to
be made into pet food.

Quoting from reporters on the scene, the Society told of horses
shot “to cause pain which will make them run frantically,“ then
pursued by speeding trucks where they were "lassoed and forced to
drag a heavy tire attached to the rope until eXhaustion puts an end
to their terrified flight, and blood runs from their nostrils."

Their noses were "hobbled." This means ”slitting the horse's
nostrils with knives, then sticking baling wire through the slits
and twisting it tight so the horses can't get enough air to make a
break for freedom."

Again, public opinion was aroused through publicity. In 1959

the wild Horse Act was passed, outlawing "the use of aircraft or

 




Lida Newberry
430 Prospect Avenue,
Mount Vernon, heW'York

-4...

motor vehicles" in hunting "certain wild horses or burros on
land belonging to the United States." Killing must be done by
humane means, and o y'when really necessary.

"Many humane individuals and groups helped obtain these

reforms," said Mrs. Stevens, "and are now working with us to

obtain enactment of (a new bill) to require humane treatment

of experimental animals.”

In.January, 1963, Senators Joseph Clark and Maurine
Neuberger introduced.in the U. 8. Senate a bill that would
require humane treatment of animals used in research. A
similar bill had failed to receive action the year before.

Congressional hearings on this bill were held, extracts
from which were reprinted by the Society.

Dogs were described, housed in cages so small they could
neither stand up,nor stretch out when lying down, with metal
mesh floor and no bedding. Animals were repeatedly operated
upon, often by high school students, without a chance to
recover between operations. There is nothing to prevent
entirely unqualified people from performing any kind of

experiment, either surgical or otherwise, on an animal.

 




Lida Newberry
430 Prospect Avenue,
ﬂaunt Vernon, New York

The bill "would prevent abuse of the privilege of using

animals for experimental purposes, without in any way hampering

responsible animal experimentation required for medical progress.“
Great Britain adopted a similar legislation 86 years ago.

One surgeon reported at the hearings, "Controls are necessary
only because some of us do and may forget that animals cannot speak
up for their own protection.”

That is what the Society for Animal Protective Legislation
is doing ~ speaking up (and getting the United States Congress

behind it) for those animals that cannot speak for themselves.

 




35. 90:2 :. mO=O®w1®zr®
mm 00200.3 veg/Em. 8:110 3:529 208 <05» Hoooo

‘13.. .@ FARO

AFN! QIRJJHEK WP!

“ﬁgb, \J a?

4 gwglgxyLN K m

 




A 5’ 52/15

6L

CaXL6Q: 4/ J

I - (“g/2&4 61/62/16 ;>

 




)Mwwag {.iﬁ
. sgoszsiﬁaﬁss;

T: 1:11: :52:

1:55:52: {13W mmwmm: 3.; :5: “2:225:- 5:2: 2:925:55 mmimg a? :31: ﬁnimi Cam
, n: 5a»: :: m mm: 5:233: m :51»: m: ”25:55:: as: M: 1555:5205 59:59::
T. E: 255:?“ “Mariam - 555:: Tim Wif‘iﬁ :2 W‘Mm“! eagoss, Md! if $3.:

5 's w £11 :1. 5 s .1 5 rs.” .
mg: :3: :5: mm 7*: 55:55- ::5‘ 5-:5::%~m5m MW: {“5331 3’0? 5 “55155 *5'5 “Us” “Mt
1% ¢ .
3f v 1 '€. ‘5: 9 a ”g $5.31.. :‘3 m1“L . ,.. Er ‘ if. ‘. L." a“ A 5" 3
.- $5.33: 3:“: mm; x :i-a-zmi“: 3:32? ”.53 :ﬁfC‘?‘ am

‘91:, ‘1 g z
\n' A xjt-éyks,» " 2

a: g 3‘5

$555: A: :55: g.

 




CARL HAYDEN, ARIZ., CHAIRMAN

RICHARD B. RUSSELL, GA. LEVERETT SALTONSTALL, MASS.

ALLEN J. ELLENDER, LA. MILTON R. YOUNG. N. DAK.

LISTER HILL, ALA. KARL E. MUNDT, s. DAK.

JOHN L. MC CLELLAN. ARK. MARGARET CHASE SMITH. MAINE

A. WILLIS ROBERTSON. VA. THOMAS H. KUCHEL, CALIF. .

WARREN G. MAGNUSON, WASH. ROMAN L. HRUSKA. NEBR. gt f h $£ f 3 {
SPESSARD L. HOLLAND. FLA. GORDON ALLOTT, COLO. at 9 a 9% ea“ 9
JOHN STENNIS. MISS. NORRIS COTTON. N.H.

JOHN O. PASTORE, R.I. CLIFFORD P. CASE, N.J. COMMITTEE ON APPROPRIATIONS

A. S. MIKE MONRONEY, OKLA. ,

ALAN BIBLE, NEv.

ROBERT c. BYRD, w. VA.

GALE w. MCGEE, WYO.

HUBERT H. HUMPHREY. MINN. May 5 , 1.961!-
MIKE MANSFIELD, MONT.
E. L. BARTLETT. ALASKA
WILLIAM PROXMIRE, WIS.

EVERARD H. SMITH, CLERK
THOMAS J. SCOTT, ASST. CLERK

Mrs. W. D. Bayne
809 Montrose Street
Vineland, New Jersey

Dear Mrs. Bayne:

Thank you for giving me the benefit of your comments
on legislation relating to the treatment of laboratory
animals, the subject of a number of bills in the
Senate and House of Representatives.

Senate bills 8. 533 and the less comprehensive S. thl
are still before the Senate Health Subcommittee. NOne .
of the bills introduced in the Reuse has yet come over
to the Senate.

While I am no longer a member of the Senate Health
Subcommittee, my longstanding interest in the humane
treatment of animals has continued, together with a
keen appreciation of the benefits which all of us owe
to medical research. I will be greatly interested in
any recommendations which the Health Subcommittee may
make on this matter, and I appreciate your getting in
touch with me about it.

Sincerely,
Q \ cz’k‘L‘-

Clifford P. Case
U. 8. Senator

CPC:aht

 




 

 

_‘V Y'V

 

.Y. V‘—

 

0O

 

011:1 ill M again [1151151

«. .‘I,
‘3-
'-

 

The International Bully
- In the recent military coup
ﬂjgm Brazil, the President shed
the mask of pretense about
,Unlted States support of

"'5‘dem0cratic institutions, or
t support of necessary change

' through parliamentary means. , ,
-_Thls was a glaring exposure? appeared on Aprll 28 what .

of the real purpose of U..;S
military aid south of the

tary aid everywhere.

I

The p r o m pt recognition},
and announced support of the':
leaders of the Brazilian mili-:

tary coup will,
believes,

ica now working for change
through peaceful means on;

this writer

put all the demo-%

cratic forces in Latin Amer- the guests in the picture did

3

notice that the mighty United

States is on the side of the

; status quo. They n0w mustf
.uxfeel that they have no al'ter- “

«native to inaction except to
* join with the forces for
violent change.
5 In Cuba, this Administra-
tion 'haS- further marred the
,image of the United States.
Flying planes over Cuba
without her permission is an
act of war, a violation of“ in-
ternational law as well as a
violation of one of the car-
'. dinal provisions of the United
Nations Charter, which the
_ﬁU-‘nited States signed. When
.. this isdone to a small de-
i,.:fenseless Country like Cuba,
it is almost certain to appear
7.t5 the rest of the world as an
act of supreme arrogance.
Cuba offers no military
threat to the United States.
At Worst, Castro is no more
‘, than a nuisance, as noted by
Senator Fulbright in a recent
WSenate. speech But playing
the part of international bully
_by the United States is not
;only dangerous, but ex—
tremely degrading. It is
>worth millions of pages of
propaganda and thousands of
hours of radio and television
propaganda to our opponents.
HUGH B. HESTER,

Brigadier General, U.S. Army (Ret.).
St. Petersburg, Fla.

   
 
  
   

Symbols
It seems deplorable to me

that on May 1, the Commu-
nist holiday of May Day re-
ceived far more news cover-
age than did our own holiday,
Law Day U.S.A. May Day in
‘Red Square consisted of a
parade- including the newest
Weaponry in the Communist
arsenal while Law Day U.S.A.
is a symbol honoring our
democratic system under a
rule of law rather than a
, tyrannical dictatorship.
.‘ It would seem that our
time would be much better
spent reflecting a moment
, and honoring our own system
under a rule of law rather
~ than trying to discredit the
- Communist world by calling
'so much attention to their
i May Day celebration.

IRVING S. RAPPAPORT,

~ G'emge Washington University
Student Bar Association.

Washington.

A.

‘ "4' -‘---..._...._.

baby seals often b e i n g
skinned alive!

S. BAILEY, MD.

New York City ,,_.,... m”...

W W
What kind of a man do we

have in the White House? In E

regard to the picture which

kind of lesson is this for the
youth of America to show the

.border. in fact Of UHS min PI'ESIdent 0f the Unlted
’ States entertaining his guests

by pulling the ears of a poor,
defenseless dog?

I am sure that many animal ,

lovers will be shocked by
this, and I notice that two of

not appear to be amu.,sed

judging from the looks on

their faces. ' '
MARGARET MCDONALD.
Washington.

“Paradise Lost”

Concerning your editorial
of May 8, may I point out
that since Tuesday, May 5, it
has been made public‘that
the Navy does not contem—
plate further acquisitions of
land in the island of Vieques.

May I point out also that
this was announced following
conferences between a high
official of the Commonwealth
of Puerto Rico and high of-
ficials of the Navy. This, I
think, should be interpreted
as contrary to the concept
t h at “the inhabitants of
Vieques are doubly power-
less, first as Puerto Ricans
and second as Puerto Ricans
with small influence in San
Juanf’

A. FERNOS-ISERN,

Resident Commissioner,
Commonwealth of Pueito Rico.

San Juan.

their treatment

1‘ apparently
5 thought is turning these days.

(insider the Victim

Your Sunday Outlook» sec-
ion recently described the
progress of two boys sent to
the Children’s Center a year
ago, after one of them killed
a building guard in order to
get a gun for the other one. ,

The article made an im-

-,p r e s s i V_e case for’ public
support for effective rehabil-
itation

and treatment of
these children, but I wonder
whether any thought w as
given to the victim’s family.
True, these children were
only 11 years old ,when they
killed the guard. Any society
would treat them differently
from adult murderers. But
is sympto-
.fmat'ic of the direction 1n which
e n11 g h t e n e d

It almost seems that the poor
and' misunderstood stand a
better chance of being helped
by society if they commit
acts of Violence than if they
seek to live useful lives.

If we have
sources available, two cate-
gories of people have good
claim to those resources: those
like the victim and his depend—
ents, who have been injured
by society’s failure to pre-
serve law and order, and

‘ those who seek to work their

way out of their disadvan-
tages by legitimate means.

I would respectfully sug-
gest that their priority for
our efforts at understanding,
rehabilitation and other as-

sistance should be a higher 1

priority than that accorded
those who kill, or injure, or
steal.

HERBERT L. CHABOT.
Silver Spring.

Watches and People

The letter published in
your issue of April 15 from
Paul F. Mickey of the Amer-
ican -W 1a t c h Manufacturers

Association seeks to answer "

my letter on the question of
import competition ‘in
watches by a personal attack
on me.

I have been testifying on
the issue of watch tariffs, and
on trade policy questions in
general, for nearly 20 years.
In that period my concern
has been solely with sup-
porting and advancing the
national interest- of the
United States. I have found it
unavoidable to criticize a
number of US. industries,

including the American

watch industry, because their
representatives selected facts
(or sometimes misstated
them) and invariably left out
the most important.

In this instance Mr. Mickey
has not attempted to answer
my statement that the De-
partment of Defense and the
Office of Defense Mobiliza-
tion, after exhaustive studies,
rejected the claim that the
watch industry is a “defense”
industry.

Mr. Mickey brings into the
discussion the cartel issue.

 

LDog—Eared

Is not the current fuss over
[the President’s pinching a
dog’s ear a little ridiculous?

Let’s be realistic. Do not
people realize that there are
very real cruelties inflicted
upon animals—very barbaric
,Tand savage cruelties—all over
the world and right here in
he US. too—cruelties of all
tmanner, shape and form.

5;,What about the catching of

“ in painful steel

 

' He says that the “Swiss car-

i

i,
E

 

i

tel” now supplies 83 per cent
of US. watch imports, which
in turn account for 85 per
cent of the US market. He
completely omits the fact
that three of the four U.S.
producers of jeweled
watches, his employers, im-
port watch movements from
Switzerland where they have
plants and belong to the
“Swiss cartel.”

As for the antitrust action
against the Swiss watch in-
dustry, Mr. Mickey does not
explain that the ‘three US.
producers mentioned in his
letter are co- defendants in
one case and the biggest of
them a defendant in another.

One could not discover,

from his letter that the jew-
eled watch industry. is only
one ,part of a larger watch-
making industry in this
country. He does not tell us
that in 1962, the last year for
which published data are
available, production of U.S.-
made watches, not including
import-assembly, was ’ the
highest since the late 19408
and supplied nearly half the
US. market.

'Mr. Mickey~ talks only of

limited re-

the jeweled watch industry, 1.

as if US. production of jew-
el‘ed watches was an industry
separate and distinct from
the rest of the watch indus-
try. I noted briefly in my
letter of March 22 that such a
distinction was not realistic,

and my reference to the ,
strength of the US. watch
industry embraced the in-

dustry as_a whole,‘not just a
part of it.

The ' ability of the three
mentioned producers to sur-
vive a tariff cut should be
judged in terms of the total-
ity of US. watch production
(which Mr. Mickey neglects).
I did not elaborate on the
ability of those companies to
survive as watch producers in
general and jeweled watch
producers in particular. The
ability to do so seems clear.

The misrepresentation in
this debate is on the part of
the jeweled watch producers,
who for the past 30 years
have cried that tariff cuts
would force. the complete

transfer of such U.S. produc- ‘

tion ‘abroad. It has not ,hap-‘
pened. The adjustments the
strong members of the in-
dustry have ”made to the

imperatives of the mark-et-‘

place suggest that it won’t

happen—in any case not be-

cause of tariff cuts a15ne.
CHARLES P. TAFT,

General Counsel, Committee for
a‘ National Trade Policy.

Washington.

at A _L A I_“‘ -- -- . I _ -4441

 

 




707 No. Broad Street

Elizabeth, New Jersey Cf7zaii

April EM, 1961

Mrs. Christine Stevens

'Society For Animal Protective Legislation
7MB 5th Avenue

New Yerk 22, New York

Dear Mrs. Stevens:

Although this letter is written while you no doubt are
still on vacation I did want it to greet you on your
return from what I hope was a very pleasant and in~a~ way
restful vacation so that you now feel a bit more rested
to continue the important work that you do on behalf of
laboratory animals.

If you recall, you wrote me under date of April I and

in this letter you sugaested that I endeavor to set up

an appointment for you with Mr. William Clark, the editor
of the Newark News. I have just contacted, once again,
Miss Gertrude Pasley, his secretary and she felt it more
expedient were you to write him (I'd suggest as soon as
possible while 6a? conversation is still fresh in her
imind) requesting an.appointment mid-week and offer them
two or three alternative dates. The Newark News has the
largest circulation in the State of New Jersey and it is
considered "a very good newSpaper." If you recall I men—
tioned to you that I had been there about 6— 8 months

ago wanting this hideous situation publicized and was
interviewed by an obnoxious boor who thought that what

I was relating to him was not "newsworthy"--I wonder if
he saw the editorial in the Times!

idea if you brought a few reprints of that article)

I should be so grateful if you would let me know how you
made out with Mr. Clark and I shall keep scandng the
editorial section.

Adele Share
(Mrs. Leonard Share)

The telephone number of the
Newark News, if you need it, is BOl-Ma h-lOOO

 




EDUCATIONAL BROADCASTING CORPORATION CHANNEL 13 WNDT

1657 BROADWAY, NEW YORK 19, N. K LT 1-6000

~\\x:u_\ £1 23 ‘ N La Wk

., [F

» a 4“,: avid” \LH‘LME
A \

J. .
i
Lama“ (“\Q “in.

"MN

:- ‘ .\ E
‘5 L.L_!\ C1" ﬂ \ (“kg 1 {WU it; CELCLRW :35;

1 \1w L¢_,3,,. 3 wwjﬁng t
\ \3.

WM“... ‘ «my. .. .. h

M.~—-q...... . .

L\<:) «.431. l M \- uc .."u...,,,5g\

Mm

4km. .\ .x ‘3 a U LAM. ix ‘\
¥

. 47X

 

 




Agnri 3., 1 $3 9 1g“; 4%

ma . Emma, Mama )mymihai, ,.
Aﬁamﬁ ﬁawxywmﬁﬁﬁ ﬁilélifa ﬂﬁﬁmﬁﬁ
Fwamkﬁgmvggk%$ ﬂaw Jarsey

ﬂaaw ﬂwﬁg ﬁﬁ§”%ﬁihﬂii

ﬂirat wﬁ $33 Eﬁﬁ me ihaua yﬂm Kw? @wmiﬁg ﬁﬁﬁﬁ a
...- ‘"~ﬁi$%anﬁﬁ ﬁﬁ $ﬁ% wm anﬁ far ﬁiﬁwiﬁﬁiﬂg fﬁw mg ﬁgmy
m_ﬂ_ﬁ,g§rwpw$%i. E ﬁawﬁ ﬁewariﬁeé ﬁﬁiﬁr.lﬁwl$3 wﬁr pfﬂw
~M~*~”*" ﬁuﬁar, an? gm? xview ané Wﬁ ﬁaww @maiéﬁﬁ tﬁma yaww
'material $$ ﬁwﬁ praﬁtical £32 @ﬂﬁﬁ ﬁpﬂﬁ.§ ﬂgy, ﬁg
ﬁava rwﬁﬁrrwﬁ ywur grmgram ﬂﬁﬁﬁiﬁﬂﬁ im $T$ m ﬁﬁﬁ
ﬁwhﬂai @$E@V$$$ﬂﬂ ﬁerviae. ﬁg ﬂaggegieﬁ ﬁhaﬁ ﬁkﬁi?
nﬁtwrw yrﬂgrmm.@arﬁicularly Wﬁﬁﬁiﬁ ﬁé appriﬂeﬁ ﬁﬁ
ymﬁx avaiiaﬁiiﬁﬁy.

They hawﬂ ﬁﬁﬁﬁﬁ‘ﬂﬂ t6 tell gag iﬁﬂi mhay ara Fﬁﬂiﬁ ﬂag
the maﬁ$Xia3 mmﬂ will be iﬁ Emmmﬁ witﬁ yam if tﬁag
have a, 93mm; 32‘? 2:33;" gnu.

with tha ﬂaming mi geué we%$ﬂ%r yﬁm magi ha mare ﬁﬁﬁﬁ
avwr away fﬁwm %%e talapkmﬂﬁ ﬁﬁﬁ am? 1% ﬁha ﬁawdﬂg

ﬂaw ylﬂﬁﬁﬁﬁﬁ it mmat ha?

With all gwmﬁ wﬁahaﬂ I

ﬁinaerwiy,

Saargineiﬁalighﬂmwﬁ%$w
@Nﬂﬁ ﬁgﬁﬁ ﬁ ﬁﬁ?

$$$

6*riwﬁi&% ﬁﬁﬂvama «
<yrﬁwiémﬁ$§ animal
Welfﬁﬁﬁ‘ﬁﬂﬁtitmtﬁ

 




In Memoriam

C/irz'stine gese[[5teven5
191 8 -2 002

 




Memoria[5ervice

Wednesday, the second of ﬂprd 2003

Eleven o’cfocﬂin tne morning

Tﬁe Soutﬁ gaﬂéq oftﬁe Raf Terrace
Joﬁn T. Kennedy Center for tne Terforming ﬂrts

%
We[come .................................................... jo/in glei'oer
RemarQs .................................................................................................. Cat/iy Liss
Remarﬁs ........................................................... ﬂonoraol'e Wifliam McC. Qikiir, Jr.
WusicaMDerformance ........................................................................... Told Winter
Remarlés ........................................................................................ (Dr. jane Goodcdf
Torewed. .............................................................................................. Jo/in gleioer

%

Lunc/ieon to Todow

T/ie music preceding and fo[[owing t/ie ceremony is 6y tne (Paid Winter Consort

 




