 

 

‘ 'JENNERISM AND
1 ‘ PASTEURISM .

The Genesis. of the Ger’m “Théory of Disease;

BY

WALTER R. HADWEN, M.D.,, 3.1».

(Reproduced from THE ABOLITIONIST' of'ﬂﬁ'am/z, 1914.},

 

 

_ PUBLISHED BY THE
BRITISH UNION FOR THE ABOLITION OF VIVISEC’I‘ION,
32, CBARING CROSS, S.W.

1914.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

PRICE ONE PENNY.

 




The British Union ‘i
for the Abolition of Vivisection.

(The British Anti-Viuisection Society.)

A
v

l-‘oundress: FRANCES POWER COBBE.

President and Hon. Secretary:
WALTERR. HADWEN, J..,P M..,D LR.O..P, MWRCS, L.S..,A etc.

chairman oi Central Executive committee:
Lord TENTERDEN.
Hon. Treasurer: The Rev. J. STRATTON, MA.
Trustees:

Lord HARBERTON, Mrs. A. MURIEL ROSCOE,
Dr. W R. HADWEN.

Parliamentary Representative . H. G. CHANCELLOR, Esq., M.P.
Bankers : LLOYDS BANK, Lmrrnn, 16, St. James’ Street, London, S.W.
' H011. Solicitor: E. HEYS-J ONES, Esq.
. . Secretary:
Miss B. E- KIDD (to whom all communications should be addressed).
Headquarters: 32, CHARING CROSS, WHITEHALL, LONDON, S.W.

“ v
THE ABOLITIONIST.
Monthly Organ of the” British Union

CONTAINING , ‘
High-class Articles on the Moral, Scientific, and Historical Aspects
of the Anti- vivisection Question ,
Replies to the Research Delence Society ; ,
Racy criticism oi New Vivisectional “p Cures ”;
chronicle oi the Month’s Work, etc.

 

 

 

Shouldbe read by all Humanitarians.

Specimen Copy sent post free to any address.

YEARLY SUBSCRIPTION(*;§§§£;§°) 3/. per annum.

 

 




JENNERISM AND
PASTEURISM.

THE GENESIS OF THE GERM THEORY OF DISEASE.

 

By WALTER R. HADWEN, M.D., J.P.

HERE has been an unwonted display of
energy of late in the booming of vaccination
against typhoid fever. This booming has

proceeded almost exclusively from the ranks of
military bacteriologists. The general practitioner
pays little heed to the sensational statements and
statistics which are from time to time published in
oﬂicial reports. '

Sanitary reform has worked wonders in this country.
Whereas in the period of 1871-80 the crude annual
mortality from typhoid fever was as high as 326 for
every million persons living, it was only 91 in the
period of 1901—10—a reduction of nearly one-fourth
in the course of thirty years. When typhoid fever
does break out now, experience proves that atten—
tion must be primarily directed to sewage—polluted
sources of drinking-water. ‘

The idea of wholesale vaccination by way of pro—
tection against this comparatively rare disease has
never entered the head of any sound-thinking member
of the medical profession. The general public go
about their daily work, do business with every trade

1

 




 

and class, intermingle with fellow-creatures of every
degree, and take their holidays in all parts of the
world without ever contemplating the necessity of
being vaccinated against typhoid fever. But directly
a British soldier is drafted to any foreign station, the
ﬁrst consideration appears to be to protect him against
this particular disease by inoculating him with the
newest kind of vaccine on the market.

Naval surgeons do not seem to be obsessed in the
same way. Jack is, for the most part, allowed to
keep a whole skin, in spite of the fact that, when his
vessel puts into port, he is quite as much exposed to
evil inﬂuences as Tommy Atkins.

THE STATISTICAL FAL LACY.

This military craze for typhoid vaccination is not
conﬁned to British ranks. The French military authori-
ties are even more enthusiastic in advocating
and in enforcing it, and in America the order has
gone forth that every soldier in the United States
Army must submit himself to it. The Japanese, in
their anxiety to follow close at the heels of Western
“ civilisation,” and to be up-to-date in all “ scientiﬁc
advancement,” are likewise demanding the obedience
of their ﬁghting men to this passing fashion.

What with being vaccinated again and again against
small-pox, “ protected ” against typhoid, and vac-
cinated still further against every peculiar disease
that may belong to the particular country to which
he may be drafted, the poor soldier’s life is not a very
enviable one, seeing that he is being constantly diseased
by serum and vaccine mongers with a view to the
preservation of his health.

The vaccine prophylactic relies for its alleged value,
in common with all other nostrums of a similar kind,
upon certain theories which we will presently examine,

2

 

 




 

and it claims success upon the basis of statistics.
The latter profess to show a lessened death-rate
among vaccinated sufferers from the disease. But,
so far, in no instance has a scientiﬁc statistical table
been published. '

Only one factor is considered in framing these
statistics, namely, that of vaccination; whereas, in
typhoid fever, above all diseases, other factors need
consideration. For instance, supposing a regiment of
soldiers, say, one thousand strong, was ordered to be
vaccinated against typhoid, but one hundred of them
had escaped the order by being sent a few miles
out to a village where they drank polluted water,
and 25 per cent. died. This mortality would be
heralded, not as the result of unsuitable conditions,
but as the result of not being vaccinated. We should
be told that out of nine hundred vaccinated men of a
certain regiment not one soldier had died, but in one
hundred unvaccinated men of the same regiment a
fatality of 25 per cent. had been recorded! '

There are many other fallacies which might be
mentioned in order to show that the mere mention
of one alleged factor in connection with a disease
is an unscientiﬁc method of presenting evidence;
it shirks the true presentation of facts, and renders
all ofﬁcial tables unreliable and worthless.

THE BASIS OF THE VACCINATION THEORY.

Turning to the theoretical basis upon which typhoid
vaccination and all other similar methods rest, we
ﬁnd a curious connection between them and that of
the invention of vaccination against small-pox by
Edward Jenner.

It will be remembered by students of the subject
that Jenner’s system of vaccination rested upon
three prime fallacies :—

 




 

 

1. That everybody was liable to small-pox.

2. That if the disease was once contracted it
would never recur.

3. That if the disease could be given in a mild
form, it would protect the individual for ever
against infection by the natural disease.

There was nothing new in this Jennerian theory.
The same ideas had been the common property of
the medical profession in England for eighty years
before Jenner’s time; mild small-pox having been
inoculated into young children since the year 1721.
It was a practice introduced into this country by
Lady Wortley Montague, who had witnessed it among
. the Turks in Constantinople, and it had been practised
in India long before then.

But it had falsiﬁed its promises, and had turned out
a failure. Instead of lessening small-pox, inoculation
had increased it.

Now, although Jenner’s vaccination and small-pox
inoculation each rested upon the same three cardinal
fallacies mentioned above, there was this difference
in their technique: Jenner used cow—pox virus
instead of small—pox virus, but he succeeded in per-
suading the medical profession that cow-pox and
small-pox were one and the same thing, only that
the virus of the former, unlike that of the latter, was
harmless, non-infectious, and unfailing in its results.

The medical profession, distracted by the failure
of inoculation, took Jenner at his word; they neither
demanded proof of his assertions nor did he supply
any; vaccination with cow-pox took the place of
inoculation with small—pox, and a grateful country, at
Jenner’s earnest solicitations, awarded him a grant
of £30,000 for his “ discovery.” That “ discovery,”
by the way, was a common superstition among the
Gloucestershire dairymaids long years before Jenner was
born, and had been practised on his own wife and
children by a farmer named Benjamin Jesty twenty
years previously to Jenner taking it up.

4

 

 




 

' This, then, was the origin of vaccination, and, need-
less to say, as in the case of inoculation, every state-'
ment and prophecy made
by Jenner has been proved
to be false.

PASTBURI SM FOUNDED
UPON JENNERISM.

Now, the same unadulter-
ated superstition is the fans
et origo of Pasteurism. The
same three fallacies that

"underlay inoculation and
vaccination formed the
foundation of all Pasteur’s
theorisings, and practices.
He relied implicitly upon
the unproved and disproved
assertions of Edward
Jenner. The one thought

which obsessed Pasteur’s mind was as to how he could
vaccinate a person with a mild form of a disease in
order to protect him against a severe one. And the
medical and scientiﬁc world, which had swallowed
Jennerism, conﬁdingly accepted Pasteurism, with all
the bold and unscientiﬁc assumptions of its founder.
Pasteur did not know, nor did he investigate, even
had he been competent to do so, the true nature of
cow-pox. Had he investigated the matter he would '
have discovered that cow-pox bore no analogy what-
ever to small-pox, and that J enner’s creed was, there—
fore, based upon an entirely false assumption; conse-
quently, his own crude reasonings, founded upon
J ennerian folklore, partook of corresponding ignor-
ance and were fallacious in their very inception.
Pasteur had been a very successful chemist, and
had gained distinction mainly through certain re-
searches in crystallography. These researches brought
him into touch with a circle of influential men, who

5

 

A

EDWARD JENNER, M.D.

 




 

secured for himrseveral public appointments which
henceforth gave him an assured scientiﬁc standing
and competency.

Whatever credit of originality may be due to Pasteur
for his crystallographical researches (of which I do not
pretend to be a judge), there is no vestige of evidence
of originality in any of his subsequent work.

Beginning with a study of lactic fermentation in 1858,
and passing on to that of spontaneous generation and
the fermentation of wine and beer, he simply continued
and imitated the experiments of many famous men who
had preceded him. He, was a child of fortune, and,
coming late in the day, proﬁted by reaping the fruit
gleaned in the vineyards of other men. His cleverness
in self-advertisement did the rest.

PASTEUR AND SPONTANEOUS GENERATION.

Pasteur has been hailed by his admirers as the hero
who defeated for all time the advocates of spontaneous
generation. This is a strange delusion, and betrays
singular ignorance of facts, inasmuch as Pasteur
stoutly held the view of spontaneous generation until
driven from his position by others.

When Pasteur ﬁnally accepted this new ﬁle, he
accepted at the same time the fact that atmospheric
germs were the cause of fermentation—a truth which
had already been fully demOnstrated by others,
notably by Professor Antoine Béchamp, Professor of
Medical Chemistry at the University of Montpellier
(France) ; and upon this acceptance by Pasteur rested
all his subsequent work in relation to wines and beers,
which yielded him so much renown.

Béchamp, one of the greatest original thinkers of
his time, to whom Pasteur owed most of his views,
announced in June, 1866, that silkworm disease was
caused by an air-borne parasite. This, at ﬁrst denied
by Pasteur, as he had previously denied spontaneous
generation, was ﬁnally accepted by him, and he
forthwith received the coveted appointment of

6

 

 

 




 

 

investigating and dealing with the silkworm disease,
which was ruining one of the chief industries of France.
By following the lines of Béchamp’s discovery he was
able to show how the silkworm disease could be reme-
died, and from that time he became the idol of the
French people. In this particular, however, no
honest man can look upon Pasteur in any other light
than as a plagiarist—and a plagiarist of a very unen-
viable type. .

BI’SCHAMP’S ORIGINAL THEORY.

Now, in the course of his scientiﬁc investigations,
Béchamp had devoted himself to a study of the
functions of certain “little bodies ” which he found
in the atmosphere, in the organs of the animal economy,
as well as in calcareous rocks. Up to that time they
had been passed over as of no consequence, partly,
no doubt, because of the inferiority of the microscopes
then in use. Béchamp came to the conclusion that
these little bodies—“ scintillating corpuscles,” as they
had been called, but which he renamed “ microzymas ”
——were the true unit of life, and that by them, all the
cellules, and, indeed, every living principle in the
animal body was built up. He considered that
bacteria—which are called germs, microbes, 850.—
were merely an evolution from these normal con-
stituents of the organism, and that such bacteria
as appeared, in the course of a diseased condition of
the body, returned to their original corpuscular state
upon the return of the diseased body to healthy
conditions.

Now, without absolutely committing oneself to this
original theory (which Béchamp claimed to have
demonstrated completely at every stage), one is obliged
to confess that there is much more common-sense
about it than in Metchnikoff’s plausible theory of
phagocytosis—which claims that the bacteria are
foreign foes attacking a healthy system from outside,
and that the white corpuscles of the blood are gobbling
scavengers which devote their lives to swallowing

l

 




 

them up. The Opsonic Theory of Sir Almroth Wright
is based upon the same fanciful idea, which pre-
supposes that the white blood corpuscles—called
phagocytes—need their appetite tickled to enable
them to swallow an increased quantity of live microbes,
and he therefore prepares a sauce composed of millions
of dead germs which are inoculated into a diseased
body for the purpose of stimulating the phagocytes
into action! Béchamp’s theory shows with much
more scientiﬁc precision why “ germs ” suddenly
disappear from a diseased organ after its restoration to
health.
PASTEUR’S PIRACY AND DISTORTION.

Now, Pasteur, who had never before contemplated
or written a line upon this subject (for his work lay
in quite a different direction), seized upon these re-
searches of M. Béchamp—“ pirated ” them, as M.
Béchamp averred—and whether from carelessness, or
ignorance, or inability to grasp the true bearing of
Béchamp’s scientiﬁc researches, promptly turned the
theory topsy-turvy and
construed bacteria, which
Béchamp had demonstrated
to be the result of disease,
into the cause thereof, and
so launched upon the world
the germ theory of disease.

Professor Béchamp had
already shown that the
“little bodies ” or micro-
zymas were not only body
builders but possessed of
fermentative power, and
that these were the mysteri-
ous forces in the atmosphere
which induced fermentative
processes in fermentative

LOUIS PASTEUR- media. Pasteur construed

. fermentation and disease
Into one and the same thing.

8

 

 

 




3..

From that time forth Pasteur’s mind appears to
have become obsessed with the thought of atmospheric
germs. Germs of ferment and germs of disease appear
to have become so confused together in his mind that
he ﬁnally compared a human body to a cask of beer,
and every disease to a fermentative process set up
by some speciﬁc atmospheric organism But though
challenged to do so, he never once experimentally
proved any atmospheric germ to be the speciﬁc
cause of any speciﬁc human disease.

In a lecture delivered in April, 1878, he said. '—

It is terrifying to think that life may be at the mercy of the
multiplication of those inﬁnitesimally small creatures.

‘ A year later—at the close of 1879—when dealing
with the subject of epidemics, he wrote :—

Nowadays, if an article had to be written on the same subject,
it would certainly be the idea of living ferments and microscopic
beings and germs which would be mentioned and discussed as a
cause. This is the great progress in which my labours have had

so large a share... In these days more infectious diseases, more
microscopic beings appear to the mind as things to be discovered.

So Pasteur spent the rest of his life in microbe-
hunting! Not in the atmosphere, however, but in
diseased bodies.

WHY PASTEUR LEFT CHEMISTRY FOR MEDICINE.

In a letter which Lister wrote to Pasteur on ‘Feb-
ruary 13, 1874, he acknowledged that his inspiration
in regard to antiseptic surgery had been derived from
Pasteur’ s memoir on lactic fermentation. He had
introduced carbolic acid in spray and solution in the
hope of killing imaginary atmospheric germs of putre-
faction which he believed set up septic poisoning in
wounds. Fortunately for surgery, Lister subsequently
discovered his mistake, and antiseptic surgery passed
into the realm of exploded fallacies.

The period and circumstances which led Pasteur
to enter the arena of medical therapeutics are not

9

 




 

 

without interest. They will largely explain the
system of modern vaccinations.

It was at the end of 1873 that Pasteur wrote as
follows :—

How I wish I had enough health and sufﬁcient knowledge to
throw myself body and soul into the experimental study of one
infectious disease!

Now, Pasteur was born on December 27, 1822.
When the above was written, therefore, he was ﬁfty-one
years of age, and had been paralysed for the previous
ﬁve years, having been struck doWn with hemiplegia
on October 19, 1868. All his best work as a chemist
had been done; the question of silkworm disease
was settled; fermentation was fully understood;
and now, late in life, with debilitated constitution and
a semi-paralysed brain, he was, for the ﬁrst time,
longing to “throw himself body and soul into the
experimental study ” of medicine, concerning which
he had had no previous training or-experience, nor,
as he himself confessed, “ sufﬁcient knowledge ” !

During the Franco-Prussian War the hospital death-
rate from purulent infection was terrible—practically
every patient operated on died. The crowded and
ﬁlthy condition of the wards at that time was in-
describable. But these conditions as the cause of the
mortality did not appear to occur to the mind of the
surgeon.

At the end of the war, however, Alphonse Guérin
suggested “ that the cause of purulent infection may
perhaps be due to the germs or ferments discovered
by Pasteur to exist in the air ”—an erroneous
conclusion which Lister had arrived at some years
before, and which had been productive of such dis-
astrous consequences. So he proposed “ to protect
the wounded from their fatal inﬂuence by ﬁltering
the air as Pasteur did,” and he, therefore, “ conceived
the idea of cotton—wool dressings.”

10

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

THE ORIGIN OF PASTEURISM.

It was in 1873 that Guérin asked Pasteur to come
and see his cotton-wool dressings at the Hospital
St. Louis. Pasteur went, and was “ overjoyed ” to
ﬁnd that his plagiarism concerning atmospheric germs
of fermentation had been jumbled up by an enthusiastic
but not very clear-thinking surgeon, as they had been
by himself, with germs of disease .’

This was the origin of what is called .“ Pasteurism.”
Pasteur came away from the hospital apparently fully
satisﬁed that fermentation and disease were one and ~
the same thing and that the aim of the physician in
the future must be to ﬁght the germs. The result
of this idea, which had been, apparently, put into his
head by the imaginative Alphonse Guérin, led Pasteur
to write the letter recorded on the previous page.

His ﬁrst attempt in the direction of “ the study of an
epidemic disease,” which he so profoundly desired,
took place four years later (June, 1877). He was then
nearing his three—score years. He repaired to a knacker’s
yard at Chartres in order to investigate a case of
anthrax. This was his notion on the subject :—

Anthrax is the disease of the bacteridium, as trichinosis is the
disease of the trichina, as itch is the disease of the special acarus,

with this difference, however, that in anthrax the parasite
can only be seen through a microscope, and very much enlarged.

Thus at the very outset of his incursion into the
study of epidemic disease he confused microscopic
bacilli with parasites of an entirely opposite order.

Now, the bacterial rods which are usually found in
connection with anthrax had been noticed by M.
Delafond, of the Alfort Veterinary School, as far
back as 1838. It had even been suggested by a later
writer, Davaine, that they might be the cause of the
disease. This was fourteen years prior to Pasteur
adopting the view. But J aillard and Leplat, as the
result of experiments, denied it, and, as is now well
known, anthrax can exist without any bacilli at all.

11»

 




 

 

 

PASTEUR GLORIFIES_EDWARD JENNER.

But Pasteur blundered on. He made cultures of
the bacilli from a single drop of blood, took a drop
from this culture and inserted it in a fresh culture
medium, then a drop from the latter again, and so
on through forty removes ; and as he still got “anthrax
bacilli” which could poison rabbits and guinea pigs,
he argued it must be the bacilli that caused the disease,
and not a virus distinct therefrom.

Upon precisely the same grounds it might have
been argued that the cause was a virus and the bacillus
was only an accompaniment of it.

However, Pasteur made up his mind that a germ
was a disease and a disease was a germ, and having
got so far, Pasteurism and Jennerism could clasp
hands. All he had to do was to cultivate his supposed
germs of disease in a suitable medium, attenuate the
preparation to a sufﬁcient degree of mildness, and then
inject it, just as Jenner did his cow-pox, in order to
give what he thought was a mild form of the disease
and so protect the organism against the genuine
article. It was all so simple. This is how Pasteur
put it :—

' What, therefore, is easier than to ﬁnd in those successive viruses
virus capable of giving Splenic fever [anthrax] to sheep, cows and

horses, without making them perish, and assuring them of ulterior
immunity from the deadly disease ?

. Rene Vallery Radot, in his biography of his father-
1n-law, asks :—
Was not this fact [i.e., the manufacture of an attenuated virus],

worthy of being placed by the side of that great fact of vaccine,
over which Pasteur had so often pondered and meditated ?

We agree with him. It could not possibly be
placed 1n more suitable company! . . '
. It was at the International Congress in London
1n 1881 that Pasteur rose and said :——

.I have given to the word vaccination an extension Which I hope
selence wﬂl consecrate as a homage to the merit and immense

12




services rendered by your Jenner, one of England’s greatest men.
It is a great happiness to me to glorify that immortal name on the
very soil of the noble and hospitable town of London.

PASTEUR’S PUBLIC RECOGNITION.

This grandiloquence over poor Jenner is highly
amusing, seeing that his attenuated cow-pox vaccine,
which he mistook for, or deliberately misrepresented
as, small-pox, had been proved of so much value
in the latest epidemic of small-pox in this country
that 44,800 had succumbed to the disease, although
98 per cent. of the victims had been “protected ”
against it !

Like Jenner, Pasteur had his critics. And, like
Jenner, he treated them very bombastically. Professor
Koch had ventured to laugh at Pasteur’s theory of
earthworms bringing the microbes of anthrax from
below and sowing the ground with them. Pasteur
wrote him as follows, when swelling with pride after
the great Congress in London 2——

However violent your attacks, Sir, they will not hinder the _

success of the method of attenuated virus. I am conﬁdently awaiting
the consequences which it holds in reserve to help humanity in
its struggle against the diseases which assault us.

It is thirty years since that squib was shot at Koch’s
expense, but humanity is still waiting to be “ helped ”
by “ attenuated virus.” At the same time, it must be
acknowledged that “ success ” of a sort attended the
venture, for although J ennerian vaccine lymph, which
at one time was such a mighty vested interest, is only
waiting to be buried in a dishonoured grave, the
Pasteurian quackery evolved from its festering carcase
became in Pasteur’s hands, and remains at the present
time, one of the greatest commercial interests of the
day. '

As in the case of Jenner, it was considered there
should be a public expression of gratitude in return
for the beneﬁts Pasteur was supposed to have
conferred upon his country. Whether Pasteur himself

13

 




 

 

 

 

was at the back of this appeal, as Jenner was behind
his own, we know not, but in 1874 the Government
of the Republic granted him a pension of 12,000 francs
(or about £500 sterling per annum), and again, ten years
later, they were reminded that Je’nner had been
voted two national awards, namely, £10,000 in 1802
and £20,000 in 1807; accordingly, not to be behind
England in gullibility, France increased Pasteur’s
pension to 25,000 francs (or about £1,000 per annum).
These sums were quite independent of the salaries
he received from public appointments and the sales
effected at his private establishment, which was run
practically as a great commercial undertaking.

PASTEUR’S GROTESQUE PRACTICES.

Pasteur dreamed his dreams of eradicating plague,
yellow fever, cholera, and the whole gamut of infec-
tious diseases, by turning everyone’s body into a
sort of bacteriological laboratory and promoting
“ protection against disease ” by giving the respective
diseases in a mild form, until the organism was resolved
into a scientiﬁc refuse—heap. It was what Sir
,Benjamin Ward Richardson called “ Dunghill Medi-
cine,” and can only be understood as the frenzied
outcome of a weak and disordered brain.

It was in 1884 that Pasteur commenced his studies
of hydrophobia upon the usual lines. He found a
microbe that answered his tests perfectly. But it
was afterwards discovered to be the wrong one, so he *
just took for granted it must be in the nervous system
somewhere, and gave up all hope of discovering the
right one. By boring a hole in the skull of a healthy
dog, he injected into its brain a portion of the spinal
cord of a mad dog, where he supposed the microbe
lurked, and having set up inﬂammation of the brain,
with all its symptoms, he concluded it was attacked
with hydrophobia.

Then rabbits were inoculated, and paralysed in
consequence. After this, fragments of their spinal

l4

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

cords (which were supposed to contain the elusive germ
somewhere or other) were suspended in bottles and
dried, subsequently crushed, mixed with water, and
injected into dogs, and by ringing the changes on these
dried fragments in a way that would do credit to any
African fetish-man, Pasteur ﬁnally thought he had
obtained an attenuated virus of hydrophobia which
would rapidly give a mild form of the disease to the
system before the genuine disease had matured, and
thus by overtaking it, would rob the latter of its
chance of mischief ! He “proved ” this to his satis-
faction by putting inoculated dogs into cages with
mad dogs on purpose that the latter might bite
them. It was not curing hydrophobia, but giving it.

PASTEUR’S FAILURES AND EXCUSES.

Needless to say, the record of failures crowded in, not
only in regard to hydrophobic virus, but also as to the
treatment for anthrax. The latter was ridiculed by most
trustworthy authorities, and although it answered ex-
perimentally in the laboratory when tried on guinea
pigs, it signally failed in the case of natural infection.
The former gained its credit by “ protecting ” thousands
of people who had not been bitten by mad dogs at all,
but the hydrophobic deaths in France increased by
50 per cent, and up to the present time the various
Pasteur Institutes themselves record over 3,000 deaths
of persons who have succumbed to hydrophobia after
having been “ protected ” against it.

Nevertheless, Pasteur, like Jenner, was always
ready with excuses—the patients were treated too late
or too soon, or they had been inoculated with the
wrong germ, just as Jenner declared they had been
vaccinated with the wrong lymph; and by bold,
unadulterated chicanery Pasteur contrived to keep
his critics at bay. '

The story of anti-toxins, of opsonins, and all the
rest of the fairy tales associated with the Pasteurian

l5

 




cult, is merely a record of attempts to render an
utterly disreputable and discreditable system of
medical treatment respectable and scientiﬁc, and
by all manner of imaginative suppositions to place
the stupid theory of Pasteur-Jennerism upon a scientiﬁc
foundation.

It is in this category of superstition that typhoid
fever prophylaxis ﬁnds its appropriate place. It
was in 1877 that H. Gueneau de Mussy published a
“ Theory of the Contagium Germ and its Application
to the Etiology of Typhoid Fever.” And ever since
then bacteriologists have been hunting for that germ,
cultivating all manner of “ genuine ” ones, and manu-
facturing attenuated viruses Which have to be con-
tinually “ improved upon.”

But no honest, unbiased person can read the genesis
of the whole business without feeling heartily ashamed
of the degrading level to which modern medicine has
sunk, and amazed that a whole profession should have
blindly followed the doddering fancies of a super-
stitious French chemist, who, late in life, undertook
a work he failed to understand and for which he was
unﬁtted, and who was ignorant of the simplest historical
facts associated with the eighteenth-century charlatan
at whose shrine he worshipped as an abject slave.

 

BRITISH UNION FOR ABOLITION OF
VIVISECTION,
32, CHARING CROSS, LONDON, S.W.

Life Membership - £5
Annual Membership - 10/-

 

 

Associates - 2/6. Smaller subscriptions received.

 

 

W. SPEAIGHT & SONS, Printers, Fetter Lane, London. E.C.

 




