 

 

 

A REPLY

TO

PROFESSOR

SCHAFER

(ﬁresident of the
(British ﬂssociation, I912),

ON THE SUBJECT OF

“THE ORIGIN 1
OF LIFE,” ‘

BY

WALTER R. HADWEN,

M.D,, L.R.C,P., M.R.C.S., L;S.A., J.P.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

A REPLY
PROFESSOR SCI-IAFER

(President of tile British Association, 1912),

ON THE SUBJECT OF

“THE ORIGIN OF LIFE,”
BY WALTER R. HADWEN,

M.D., L.R.C.P., M.R.C.S., L.S.A., J.P.

 

ROFESSOR SCHAFER believes the day is
coming when life may be produced by the
combination of the elements which compose
living matter. Man, he argues, is derived from
matter, living matter having been evolved from non-
].iving matter, and he sees no reason why the chemist
should not manufacture living matter in the labora-
tory on a large scale. The author of the Creation
narrative in the Book of Genesis knew that man was
derived from matter, and knew it several thousand
years ago, so that that particular feature of the case
is by no means new; but he made distinction between
matter and—something else that by man, at all events,
has been always associated with what is termed mind.
This “ something ” does not appear to have entered
very considerably into Professor Schafer’s calculations
either in theory or practice. He thinks, because an
inanimate crystal “ grows ” by the addition of similar
inanimate particles of matter to its external surface,
that, by analogy, a man should similarly develop.
So far as one can see, the only analogy to be drawn
from this argument is that man should develop into a
big crystal, but, however beautiful and large the
crystal, it would still be a crystal, and as a crystal can
neither love nor hate, think nor see, taste nor smell,
hear nor feel, one fails to see where the analogy
comes in.
WHAT IS LIFE ?

We remember a few years ago that the whole scien—
tiﬁc world, as well as all the newspaper world, was
thrown into a big ﬂuster over Mr. Butler Burke’s
researches in his laboratory at Cambridge. By means

 




 

 

4

of radium—sprinkling a few grains of radium bromide
on gelatine broth—he had produced life, and motion,
and reproduction ! The “ origin of life ” was discov-
ered at last ! It was radium ! Well, the “life,”
and “ motion,” and “ reproduction ” turned out to be
bubbles of gas ; gas was felt by the man-in-the-street
to be a very poor sort of missing link between the
animate and inanimate world. So the theory went to
pieces, as Dr. Charlton Bastian’s theory had gone to
pieces before, and the laboratory scientist said no more
about spontaneous generation on that basis.

Professor Schafer has a good deal to say about the
“ scientiﬁc sense ” and scientiﬁc conceptions. He
“ could not conceive,” for instance, “ of life existing
apart from matter.” He goes on to tell us that
living substance is composed of carbon, hydrogen,
oxygen and nitrogen with phosphorus, and that 70 per
cent. of water is generally needed for any manifestation
of life as well as the salts of sodium, calcium,
magnesium, potassium and iron ; “ and when the
chemist,” he adds, “ succeeds in building up this
compound, it will, without doubt, be found to exhibit
the phenomena which we are in the habit of associating
with the term ‘life.’ ”

But what is the power that can convert inorganic
matter, perfect in all its chemical constituents, into a
sentient being ? Why leave it for the chemist of the
future to artiﬁcially construct that chemical com-
bination in his laboratory? It is ready to his band
now. That chemical combination exists by the million
tons in graveyards and mortuaries, for instance, but
what will make the dry bones to live? Professor
Schafer, like all his materialist school, begs the whole
question.

AN ILLOGICAL COMPARISON.

He says “life ” and “ soul ” are not the same
thing; “ they are frequently erroneously employed
as if identical.” Granted. But he fails to explain
the difference between them beyond declaring that
“ the problems of life are the problems of matter.”
Can the “ soul,” then, exist apart from life ? N o, for
Professor Schafer distinctly states that “ the formation
of the conception of ‘ soul ’ is only possible in connec-
tion with ‘ life.’ ” It matters not, then, what concep-
tion he may possess of the soul, for if it cannot exist

 




4 4H...“ “5‘ _,.«,._ .4. .

5

apart from life, and life cannot be found apart from
matter, then “ soul” as well as “life ” is reduced to
a mere chemical equation, and all the affections,
ambitions, aspirations, longings, nobility of character,
the very energy of will and devotion are within the
chemical possibilities of a fellow creature’s art. Man,
in short, may become his own creator, and the soul
of honour as likewise many another quality may be
manufactured like Beecham’s Pills.

Scientiﬁc investigations, says the Professor, “ tend
to show that living beings are governed by laws
identical with those which govern inanimate matter.”
“ Tend to show ! ” Where ? What laws ? He com-
pares the movements of an amaeba—that strange
elementary mass of protoplasm possessed of life in
its most rudimentary manifestations —— with the
movements of an oil or mercury globule which in
obedience to an entirely different law, namely,
that of surface tension, shifts from place to place.
We stand aghast at the comparison coming from
the lips of a Professor of Physiology and President
of the British Association, who fails to see the
difference between the movement of matter re-
sponding to the inherent power of life within, and
that of an inorganic substance answering to the
external force of chemical or physical action. The
laws governing the respective substances of protoplasm
(73.6., living matter) and an inanimate globule of mer-
cury areas opposite as the poles, and the attempt at
comparison in things which differ so widely would be
laughed at by every intelligent fourth standard
schoolboy in the Kingdom.

IS THERE A DIRECTING FORCE?

The beautiful arrangement of the crystals of common
salt around carbon particles suspended in their solution
are said to be “indistinguishable from that adopted
by the particlesof chromatin in a dividing nucleus ” ;
but although the appearance to the onlooker may
present similarities, the most superﬁcial student of
biology knows that the act of Icaryokz'nesz's, that is
the division of the cell nucleus under the inﬂuence of
the mysterious power of life within, can be explained
by no chemical process, nor is it displayed by any non-
living thing. Such action bears no relation. whatever
to the chemical accretions of a “ growing ” crystal,

 




 

6

however beautiful and changing they may be, which
can increase only in a surrounding medium of identical
speciﬁc molecules with itself, and which can act only
under the inﬂuence of external stimuli, whilst remain-
ing inanimate matter to the end.

’ Even the illustration he quotes as to the possibility
of starting division in the ovum of the sea-urchin
by electrical means instead of by spermatozoa is no
argument in point, inasmuch as the vital elements
of life already exist in the contents of the ovum,
and these are entirely absent in a crystal. All the
electricity in the world, however much it might
induce imitations of life and movement by muscular
contractions in a recent corpse, could never bring
it to, life again, nor has the physiological agnostic
never ' yet succeeded by electricity or by any other
means in getting life and reproduction of life out of a
crystal. '

' ,When Professor Schafer tells us that “ vitalism
explains nothing, and the term ‘ vital force ’ is an
expression of ignorance which can bring us no further
'along‘the path of knowledge,” we agree with him, but
with this reservation, namely, that the evidence of
life indicates some directing force behind it, and if
there be “ ignorance ”' in the expression, it is an ignor-
. .ance which he makes no attempt whatever to dissi-
pate. It is evident that there can be no result without
cause; an intelligent. result demands an intelligent
cause, and intelligence predicates personality.

WHAT “IMAGINATION” CAN DO.

An address occupying six columns of verbiage
in The Times newspaper, restating the old, old
difﬁculties of the scientiﬁc agnostic, and repeating
the stale sophisms of the intellectual atheist, have
left the subject of the origin of life recisely where
its author found it. The account 0? the origin of
life in the Book of Genesis may be, as Professor
Schafer tells us, “ purely mythological,” and _ Metch-
nikoifmwho proposes to extend, human life to an
indeﬁnite extent by supplying it with microbes
found in the intestines of a shortlived dog—may be
a better and more trustworthy histOrian, in his
estimation, than the author of the Creation narrative ;
but, after all said "and done, the President of the

 




‘7

British Association has not yet been able, to furnish
a better working hypothesis than that which the
Hebrew narrative has supplied, and every unbiassed
person will admit that, whether right or wrong, the
latter still holds the ﬁeld. ' , '
Professor Schafer “ sets aside, as devoid of scientiﬁc
foundation, the idea of immediate supernatural
intervention in the ﬁrst production of life,” and
proceeds to quote the highly imaginative speculations
of others such as the “ meteorite ” theory—which
carry us no further forward. He himself believes that
“ the evolution of non—living into living substance has
happened more than once and may be happening
still,” but is forced. to admit that “ up to the present ,
there is no evidence of such happening.” So he calmly
falls back upon his “imagination,” and “ assumes "’
that life ﬁrst appeared “ in the form of a maSs of
colloidal slime possessing the property'of assimilation,
and therefore of growth,” and adds that“ reproductiOn
would follow as a matter of course.” Then his
“imagination ” carries him on to suppose that it
would “ undergo sub—division,” and “ the sub-division
may be into equal or nearly equal parts, or it may
take the form of buds.” Each sub-division -“ would
resemble the parent,” and “in this way frOm any
beginning of living material a primitive form of life
would spread, and would gradually people the globe.”

A PERTINENT QUESTION. '

As an effort of “imagination ” this is all very well,
because the President has actual facts as to the
orderly development of cell-life to base his structure
upon, and as he proceeds still further to “ trace in
imagination ” the “ segregation of a more» highly
phosphorised portion of the primitive living matter ”
until the nucleus forms, he ﬁnally reaches “ a process
' of differentiation of primitive living matter into
individuals.” He says “ we can conceive ” all this,
but “' how long it may have takengto arrive at this stage
_ we have no means of ascertaining.” His “ imagina-
tion ” satisﬁes itself with “ a vast period oftime.”

So far as “ imagination ” gOes, all this is a very
ﬁne piece of composition, but “imagination ” is not
science, for when ‘ imagination ” has been eliminated,
we are left with one pertinent question that the

 




 

8

imaginative Professor leaves unanswered, namely:
“ Where did the ‘ mass of colloidal slime ’ with its
‘ living matter ’ come from? ” Until the President of
the British Association can answer this question, we
doubt whether he can very well afford to sneer at the
Book of Genesis.

He talks of “ unexampled progress ”; of the
“ marvellous distance we have travelled,” especially
in “ the cell structure of plants and animals ”; but:
the wonders which the microscope has revealed have

only demonstrated that which exists ; “ the origin of '

life ” is as far away from the ken of the physiological
agnostic as ever, and the Chemist’s test tube and.
retort, with their elements and gases, remain after all
but the silent expression of scientiﬁc ignorance.

When Professor Schafer comes to deal with the
nervous system, he treats the subject in the same
cavalier manner as he does everything else. He admits-
that in this particular animal life is differentiated from.
plant life, as the latter possesses no nerves. But nerve
cells to him are nothing more than “ a slight original
modiﬁcation of certain cells ” which has taken.
place “in the course of evolution,” so that they
eventually became “ the seat of perception and con-
scious sensation, of the formation and association of?
ideas, of memory, volition, and all the manifestations
of the mind ” 1

WHAT MATERIALISM INVOLVES.

How simple it all is ! It is truly wonderful what
a scientiﬁc “imagination ” can evolve! Professor
Schafer has no philosophical difﬁculties. He takes
materialism as his basis, and everything else is taken:
for granted on the principle of chemical evolution.
That wondrous power of thought, those treasured
memories of years, those impressions of Scenes and
faces and conversations—they are merely Chemical
and physical processes. Seeing that chemistry is an;
exact science which always effects its changes in
deﬁnite order and according to well-known laws and
combinations, it ought to be possible to draw up a
chemical formula for every thought and reduce a
Napoleon Bonaparte to a chemical equation.

Nay, more than that, seeing that chemical oom-
pounds can only act in deﬁnite straight lines and

 




 

9

combinations, the physiological materialistic theory
can admit of no will power whatever. The creature ~
must be subservient to the direct chemical laws which
govern him. He becomes a mere machine, capable
only of working by an automatic power, and in the
light of such a doctrine it is monstrous to punish men
for offences against the moral law—seeing that
morality, according to this theory, is a mere mechanical
process, for disregarding which a man cannot justly
be held responsible.

But Professor Schafer’s illogical position is easily
seen when he assumes that thought, love, idealism,
:sense, and every lofty aspiration spring from dead
matter, without attempting to vouchsafe a solitary
reason as to how this could have happened, any more
than he can explain how this primitive “ mass of
colloidal slime ” became imbued with life. He says
that these wonderful and mysterious powers are only

*the development of the nervous system; but the

nervous system, as represented by its physical and
chemical constitution, is not the originator but merely
the channel by which the hopes and aspirations of the
mind and intellect are conveyed.

THE REDUCTIO AD ABSURDUM.

If life and intellectuality are to be reduced by
such materialism to mere developments of matter,
then we ought to be capable of understanding their
processes without any difﬁculty. But who can under-
stand—can Professor Schafer himself understand——

upon such a basis, the thought that conceived the

steam engine, the ambition that ﬁred an Alexander,
the philanthropy that controlled a Peabody, the love
that characterised the Christ, the devotedness that
swayed a St. Paul, the genius that dominated a
Napoleon, the eloquence that enriched a Demosthenes,
the fearlessness that possessed a Savonarola, the
asceticism, the loyalty, the heroism of the men and
women whose deeds history loves to record? Can
all this be resolved into chemical equations, or be
understood as such? Every man of common-sense
must admit the impossibility.

But bring in Life as a separate entity. Let spirit
and spirituality take their place in the realm of
philosophy, and then light appears upon the horizom

 

 




 

10

The arrogant materialist may sneer as he pleases at
“ the purely mythological part of the Old Testamen ,”
he may form his own estimate of the God of the
Bible and deny the truth of the creation narrative
in Genesis; but, after all, that sublimely poetical
passage, “ The Lord God formed man of the dust
of the ground, and breathed into his nostrils the
breath of life and man became a living soul,” has
the compelling grandeur of spiritual truth about it,
and the great fact which lies imbedded in that eloquent
tribute to an originating and directive force lying
behind the crude materiality of the physical organism
will still appeal, as it has appealed through the cen-
turies, to every careful observer when the petty,
prooﬂess Schaferian philosophy has passed away,

And to what does all this cocksure materialism
lead? The lecture closes with a disquisition upon
preventive medicine, and the efforts which the
materialistic vivisectionist is making to enable man
to live a little longer on the earth and to escape as
long as possible that inevitable “ death ”—-the return
of the human chemical organism to its elements—-
which is the only hope that the materialist possesses.
“ We can only be immortal through our descendants 7’
is the despairing conclusion of Professor Schafer.

HOW LIFE MAY BE PROLONGED.

. The higher animal organisms, we are told, have
to contend against formidable enemies in the shape
of micro-organisms which are producing chemical
poisons calculated to destroy the animal tissues,
and, as the cells of the animal body lack sufﬁcient
p0wer to repel these invaders, this marvellous science,
which proposes to construct living matter out of
chemical elements in a laboratory, has been able,
so the President tells us, to manufacture serums
and anti-toxins, formed in the blood of lower animals,
which can be squirted among the delicate chemical
machinery of the human body to assist it in its defence !

Professor Schafer gives a list of diseases which,
he says, are produced by these micro-organisms.
They are as folloWs :——-“ Anthrax, rinderpest in cattle,
distemper in dogs and cats, small-pox, scarlet fever,
measles and sleeping sickness.”

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

11

Unfortunately for the theory and its exordium,
Professor Sch'afer appears to know as much about the,
facts of it as he does about the origin of life. Fer
scarlet fever, measles and small-pox no micro-organism
has ever yet been discovered. The sleeping sickness
microbe is undergoing so much variety that nobody
is certain which is the right one or whether the'disease
is due to a micro-organism at, all. ‘As to each of the
animal diseases he mentions, it has been shoWn indis-
putably that they cannot possibly be due to anything
in the nature of an organised germ or micro—organism}
Here Professor Schafer has passed fromrthe physiology
of life, of which he knows little, to the realm of medical
bacteriology, of which he knows less. ' ' '

The extraordinary thing is that for the diseases
he names there is no‘bona-ﬁde ‘V‘r protective serum or
anti—toxin ” on the market except in the case of anthrax,
and that is a decided failure. And yet he goes on to
say, upon the basis of these absolutely false assertions :
“ It is not too much to assert that the knowledge
of the parasitic origin of so many diseases and of
the chemical agents which on the one hand cause,
and on the other combat their symptoms, has trans—
formed medicine from a mere art practised empirically.
into a real science based upon experiment.”

THEORY CONTRASTED WITH PRACTICE.

He blunders on from these absurd and palpably
erroneous assertions to state that “ Lord Lister,
by applying this knowledge to the practice of surgery,
was instrumental, even in his own lifetime, in saving
more lives than were destroyed in all the bloody wars
of the nineteenth century.” . . _

As a matter of fact, Lord Lister did little else
than kill his patients until he left 'off “ applying this
knowledge.” He confessed he was ashamed he had
ever invented the carbolic spray, and he was obliged
to reduce the strength of his germ killing carbolic
solution until it was incapable of killing any germs
at all. Itvwas only'when he. gave up the“ knowledge ?’
he had learned from Pasteur and followed the method
of Semmelweis, namely, that of aseps'is or cemmon;
cleanliness, which had been in vogue thirty. years
before, that he was successful. “Anti—septic surgery”
is now as dead as Queen Anne, and the peerage of

 




12

Lord Lister, conferred for its invention, is one of those
ironies of history which should be a warning to
«“ science ” in the future.

The theory which Professor Schafer started out to
propound is a theory which runs counter to the great
moral law of the universe, and the practice in which
it culminates, namely, that of the brutal prosecution
of vivisection, is a similar offence against morality.

Man, according to his theory, is a mere human
machine of chemical origin, and the sub-human animal,
which he claims the right to torture by converting it into
a chemical manufactory of disease products, is looked
upon as a bit of similar machinery with no rights at
all. Seeing that the theory is false and ridiculous,
and opposed to true science and common-sense, it is
not surprising that the practice which it resolves itself
into should be similarly futile, unscientiﬁc, and un-
reasonable.

The theory is based upon premises which are false
in their conception and puerile in their logic, and the
practice is consequently unsound in its foundations and
false in its presentation. The theory, is kept alive
by constant iteration and assertion, the practice is only
saved from utter condemnation by the bold and persis—
, tent and yet baseless claims of its interested supporters.
But just as the British public, as a whole, treats with
indifference the speculations of the scientiﬁc materialist,
so, in another decade or two, will the same public rise
in indignation, and spurn the tricks, the sophistries,
and the falsehoods by which the bacteriological
expert is imposing upon them.

As a specimen of cocksure arrogance and bombast,
of proofless assertion and baseless speculation, the
address of Professor Schafer' is the most regrettable
exhibition that has ever been given from the Presidential
chair of the British Association, and for that exhibition
we have to thank the bad reasoning that invariably
accompanies the bad ethics of Vivisection.

 

 

Reprinted from THE ABOLITIONIST, the journal of the Biitislz Union
for Abolition of Vivisection,

32, CHARING CROSS, LONDON, S.VV.
PLEASE SEND FOR A SPECIMEN COPY.

 

W. Speaight and Sons, Printers, Fetter Lane, E.C. 5629 26/9/12

 




