CUB-HUNTING (I 92 5)

(A Massacre of Innocents)

Compiled by HENRY B. AMOS.

“ M an who prays for mercy . . . is himself merciless.”——EDWIN ARNOLD.

.____.___...—_—

THERE are about two hundred packs of foxhounds in Great
Britain, and cub—hunting—wor “A Massacre of Innocents,”
as it might more ﬁtly be described—is carried on during
August, September and October. In November the “ real”
fox-hunting season begins, and continues till. May. Most
hunts meet two or three times a week.

Viscount Galway, a Master of. Foxhounds for over thirty
years, states that the two chief objects of cub-hunting are
to “train ” the hounds and to “ thoroughly frighten” the
cubs. “When there are-only one or two cubs left in a
covert,” he adds, “ the hunt-sman should concentrate the
pack on one cub and stick to him till they kill him. A great
fuss should then be made at baying the fox and encouraging
the young hounds, as I ﬁrmly believe the more savage a
pack is at breaking up their fox the more determinedly will
they run to kill him.”

The following details, culled from reports of cub—hunts
during the season 1925, show how excellently the savaging,
which the noble Lord recommends, is carried out, though
whether most effective on hounds or on hunters we leave
the reader to judge. In any case, the cubs are to be com—
miserated with; and that Society which not only condones
but encourages and glories in such savagery for pleasure
is surely to be condemned as a menace to true chivalry and
humanity which it is the privilege of man to exercise towards
every fellow—creature within his power.

I

THE TEDWORTH HOUNDs.-—-The new Master ‘inaugurated
his campaign ” with“ a real screaming ﬁfty-eight minutes”
from Bedlam on August 29th. They ran a strong cub . . .
through Bedlam . . . and pulled him down handsomely in
the open “ as stiff as a crutch.” (“Old Bob ”. in‘Hm/se and
Hound, September 12th.)

“ Only the keenest of the keen are out, men and women, the
summit of whose ambition is to be good at hunting. . . .
Away! away! is the cry, and murder is in the note of the
hounds as they race through a cornﬁeld.” (Capt. R. Crofton in
The Hunting journal, October.)

 

 




 

THE LAMERTON.-—An early breakfast and before long hounds
were running “ in all directions with a grand litter of very
early cubs.” The cubs made repeated efforts to get into a big
badger’s earth and it took eight or nine people all their time
to keep them out. The hunt went on for several hours, and
“ towards the end the old vixen, who never went far away,
very nearly paid the penalty.” (W. Morning News, July 14th.)

THE SOUTH DEVON.——“ The pack achieved a great triumph
by overhauling a very tired cub. . . . They had been hunting
continuously for two and a half hours.” (“Talisman ” in

W. Morning News, October 13th.)

THE NORTH SHROPSHIRE up to October 5th killed thirteen
and a half brace. (Horse and Hound, October 17th.)

THE QUORN have “ only missed blood on two occasions,”
their record amounting to thirty-seven marks (cubs) in eighteen
outings. (“ Gryphon ” in Horse and Hound, October 3rd.)

THE DULVERTON.——“ A hard but bloodless day.” Spent
four hours running in and around Yarde Wood, but ” unfortu-
nately ” they were “ unable to get any individual fox tired.” ! I !
(“ Nancy” in Devon Gazette, September 29th.)

“ What is there to say of cubbing in early October save that
most young entries . . . have had any amount of blood and
are entering well to their duties? Could more or better be
said?” (The Hunting journal, October.)

“ Hark 1 a mufﬂed worry, and old Will smiles a smile a yard
wide as he slaps his thigh and exclaims, ‘They’ve got him.’
Hounds had killed their ﬁrst cub. Then he blows his horn
loud and long for the hounds. When he has got them he
tosses the fox into the air and leaves them to split him up,
cheering them on in the worry-worry. Then he captures (P)

the head . . .” (“Nimrod Junior” in Baily’s Magazine,
September.)
THE WARWICKSHIRE.——“One of the best morning’s work.

Ran the ﬁrst fox down in about ten minutes. Accounted for
another in about the same time, doing ‘further execution’
later in the day. On another morning came home with no
less than 4 brace to their credit.” (“ Patience ” in The Field,
October 8th.)

THE MEYNELL.—“ A splendid and enthusiastic ” ﬁeld;
morning’s work brimful of interest! A cub was found, and
after giving him “a real good dusting,” rolled him over.
Getting busy again, a second fox was so hard pressed that he
got into a tiny rabbit’s hole from which his keen pursuers
soon scratched him and “ put paid ” to his account. (Nottingham
Guardian, September 4th.)

“ 5.30 on a September morning. . . . How beautiful the
lanes and grass rides smell, the sweet,scents of early morning
with dew and mist hanging on the boughs! The covert is
entered. . . . Suddenly you hear one of the hounds speak,
then another and another, the puppies simply shrieking their
delight at the new fox game. This goes on for a long time.
. . . There is sudden silence and then—a scurrying scufﬂe
and it is all over with number one, who is ‘ torn into a thousand

tatters of brown fur.” (E. Lloyd in Hampshire Telegraph,
September 9th.)




“ THE ZETLAND HOUNDS, in 20 mornings, have killed 28
brace. Lord Tredegar’s pack have a tally of I2 brace. The
PUCKERIDGE, in 26 mornings, have scored 25 brace; the
QUORN, to the end of September, 20 brace. The FERNIE, in
one morning, from Shangton, killed a brace of cubs and 5
badgers, and the PYTCHLEY, at Lamport, no fewer than ﬁv
brace of cubs.” (Shooting Times, October 17th.) ‘

THE BERWICKSHIRE “ in 5 mornings accounted for 5 brace.”
(The Field, October 15th.)

SIR W. W. WYNN’s.——“ Quite 2 hours spent with a good
handful of lusty cubs.” Although some broke through the
cordon, “ a leash (3) of foxes and a brace of badgers were
laid low.” (Shrewsbury Chronicle, September 11th.)

Again, from Oswestry Advertiser, October 16th : “ Before
hounds left this ﬁeld of kale a leash of cubs had been snafﬂed,
whilst a fourth ripped away. Pressed, he ran back to the
ﬁeld . . . where he came to the end of his resources and down
he went. The game was kept going by a fox, roused by hounds
singing the requiem of the last fox. . . . Another cub was
to hand in a kale ﬁeld. . . . He wriggled through the barns
and other buildings of the homestead, then he tried the foliage
of the orchard as a camouﬂage, but hounds had him.”

THE BELVOIR.—~On September 22nd “ capital” sport. The
ﬁrst cub, found in a ﬁeld of roots, was “rolled over.” In
California found again and killed. Getting away with another
” pulled him down ” near Boiling Wells. On Wednesday had

a “busy but a bloodless morning.” (“Hubert ” in Grantham
journal, September 26th.
THE PUCKERIDGE.—-“With about 32 couples, in this not

very big wood, the cub was given little respite.” (The Field,
October 15th.)
THE NORTH SHROPSHIRE have been “well blooded,” I2

cubs having been killed up to date. (Shrewsbury Chronicle,
September 9th.)

THE MENDIP.—“ In nine mornings accounted for 9%; brace
of cubs and a badger.” (Bristol Times, September 22nd.)
On October 5th killed an “ old lame fox.”

THE YORK AND AINSTY on October 3rd soon “ found ” and
killed. After three hours, when hounds “ ran with a beautiful
cry,” a cub went to ground and was “ had out and eaten.”
On October 8th marked a fox which they “ soon had out and
ate.” They also killed a badger. (Horse and Hound, October
17th.)

THE MEAI‘H.~—Up to date (October 19th) 18 brace of foxes
have been killed. (Irish Times, October 22nd.) .

THE WHADDON.—“Lord made a good move-off last
month, killing 5»;- brace of foxes and a couple of badgers in their
ﬁrst 6 days’ cubbing.” . . . On September 22nd hounds accounted
for 4 brace. (The Observer, October 4th.)

THE BRAMHAM MOOR.——Hounds have been given “ plenty of
the blood.” (Hunting journal, October.)—In 22 mornings killed
19 brace. (Horse and Hound, October 3rd.)

. . . it is a fact that in August of the present year the
Duke of Beaufort’s hounds had killed 28%; brace of foxes up to

 

 




and including the 29th of the month. Just think of what this
means! 57 foxes killed before the end of August.” (Leading
article in The Field, September Ioth.)———Up to October 20th they
had killed I 57. (H ome and H onnd, October 24th.)

“ The day was ideal and the Dartmoor Hounds soon pushed
a cub into the open. He dodged about amid the rocks into
clumps of bushes. Ejected, he crawled up the almost precipitous
cliff and along the narrowest of ledges, where the dogs could
not possibly follow. He was driven back to the bushes. Here
he was surrounded by the hounds, and in spite of leaps over
the backs of some, cornered and killed. The quarry was con—
veyed to the cliff-top, and there, after the Master had removed
the mask, brush and pads, the rest was broken up.” (“ H. J. B.”
in W. M owning News, September 11th.)

A}, ‘THE SOUTH OXFORDSHIRE..———“ In Haseley Wood, while there 5'
i were only two masks and two bodies accounted for, there were
three unmistakable brushes brought to hand. I have hanging '
in my bedroom now a half brush which its owner carried for a'
several ﬁelds after the leading hound had bitten off the other
' half. Did the same thing happen in Haseley Wood, only with i.
the fox making good his escape?” (“ Oxfordshire Yeoman”

in H orse and Hound, October 24th.)
.- THE TEDWORTH, on October Ioth, “ gave hounds blood to '
\the tune of a brace.” . . . The late Master, Sir —-—-——’s great-
,1 niece was duly initiated into the mysteries of the chase by 5,
\ordeal of blood, being adjured by the Master to “ be sure and
i .not wash it off till she had been. to church.” (” Old Bob ” in
Home and Honnd, October 17th.)
THE LLANGIBBY had “ rare ” sport on October 2nd. One
. cub was killed in Capt. ————-—’s garden, and another in Mr. ‘_
————’s orchard. One brush was presented to Mrs. ————, and
a mask to Miss ~—--—. On the 6th they had a “ most enjoyable ” ,.
time, a fox being “ dug out and devoured.” On the 7th they ‘
.3 had “ capital ” sport “ rolling over ” an old dog fox. Miss ~——— '
{received the brush and Mrs. ~——— the mask. (Home and
'Honnd, October 17th.)

* * >l< * :1:

Such is the pitiful story. And what is the verdict ? Is the
hound or the hunter—the animal or the human—most “ savaged ”
in cub—hunting? We are content to leave the issue with the
reader, only asking that those who agree with us~-——those who
cherish the idea of a humane, healthy civilisation—«will help
us to place the facts before the public.

H. B. A.

Price Emd each, 01/ 30 for I/«, post/free.

 

LEAGUE FOR PROHIBITION OF CRUEL SPORTS,
YORK HOUSE, PORTUGAL Sinner, LONDON, W.C.z

 

Y1936 The Botolph PrintinggVVorks, Gate Street, Kingsway, W.C.2

 




