The Ofﬁcial Journal of the League for 101, Chandos House, Palmer Street,
the Prohibition of Cruel Sports, . Westminster, S.W.l.

Phone: VICTORIA 8496.

Gn-

VOL. VIII. No. 8. AUGUST, 1934. 2d. “mm 2’?"e“’“““'“'

post tee.

CONTENTS.

PAGE
VIEWS AND NEWS. BY THE EDITOR 58 FOX-HUNTING
AN ERNEST BELL MEMORIAL 59 OTHER-HUNTING

Tée Editor accepts no responsiéi/ity for opinions expressed in signed articles.

 

 

VISCOUNT MORLEY, O.M.-—“I am quite sure that the time will come when
people will read of the wanton cruelties which we now inﬂict in Sport with
the same wonder and abhorrence with which we now read of the bloody
orgies of savage tribes and the cruel 'scenes of the Roman amphitheatre.”

 




, Page Fifty-eight

CRUEL SPORTS

VIEWS AND

August, 1934

 

NEWS

By The Editor, HENRY B. AMOS.

The Passing Of Rodeo

The Rodeo Show at the White City, London,
noted in our last issue, closed down prematurely
on July 6th, an admitted failure from every point
of view. The public boycotted it, and the press
indicate that probably £50,000 has been lost on
the show, which was ﬁnanced by the National
Sporting Club.

This is a happy termination to a stupid, callous
venture and shows that humanitarian opinion
will have to be reckoned with more and more in
any form of animal exploitation that is attempted
to be foisted on this country. We must go from
strength to strength, however, until all cruel
isports, whether rodeo, bull-ﬁghting, cruel ﬁlms,
hunting, coursing, etc., are made illegal by an
intelligent public opinion.

Rodeo Cruelty And ‘justice’

The following letter by the editor of Cruel
Sports appeared in the Cumberland Herald of
July 142——

Sir,——I have read with great interest the letter
by Mr. Alfred Brisco in your issue of the 7th inst.,
.on this subject, and, as one present both at the
chief accident that took place at the White City
on 11th June, and at the prosecution for cruelty
on «30th June, perhaps you will allow me to

express my opinion.

First I should like to say that I am perfectly
satisﬁed that the steer was “ terriﬁed ” by the
two cowboys on ponies racing up behind and
urging him to run away fro-m them as fast as he
could. Unfortunately he did not run straight
for the eXit at the opposite end of the Stadium,
but was diverted to the right and driven through
a. stout wire fence, when he received injuries so
serious that he was. destroyed by the defendants
two or three hours later. As ﬁve R.S.P.C.A.
InSpectors were present at close quarters and
saw the whole incident, and as each of them
sWore to the: facts above-mentioned I think every
reasonable person must conclude that the magis-
trate’s decision in dismissing the case was most
unsatisfactory. ' '- .

The Passing Of Fox-Hunting

Foxes are disappearing in the Minehead Dis-
trict and the local Hunt was only able to kill 14
out of 73 days’ hunting last season. Mr. A. S.
Bligh, the joint-master, stated that “ at the
beginning of the season there was a splendid

show, but from the early summer we have heard ,

of nothing but foxes being picked up dead in every
direction. ’ ’

Our own feeling in the matter is that farmers
are now jumping all traditions and conventions

and killing off the foxes in sheer self protection
and because they cannot get adequate protection
against them.

Propaganda

With the month of August comes the time
when it is usual for us to ask our friends and
supporters to help in preparing for and carrying
through our winter’s work. Secretaries of Church
Guilds, Literary, Debating, and other Societies,
are now busy making-up their programmes for
the season, and this is the time to approach
them and endeavour to secure openings for dis-
cussions on cruel sports. Most of these Societies
are on the look out for new subjects, and secre-
taries are becoming increasingly sympathetic to
our cause.

Where it is not possible for a local speaker to
be found to carry through a local opportunity,
the secretary of the League will always be happy
to try and provide a speaker if due notice is
given and the out-of-pocket expenses can be met.
He will also be happy to send a free supply of
the Journal and of leaﬂets for distribution at
meetings.

Finance

No propaganda, however, can be effectively
carried through without the ‘ sinews,’ and as
this is also the season in which 'we usually appeal
to our richer friends for the favour of a renewal
of their generous support, we beg earnestly to
commend the reminder to them. We know
that the times are. still hard and that it is difﬁcult
for many of our members to give. as they would
like to do. If, however, 500 of them could each
add 2/6 or 5/- to their annual subscriptiOn it
would be a tremendous- help and would ensure
the good work not only been maintained but
extended into new spheres of usefulness.

“ Mile of Pennies ”

Respecting our “ Mile of Pennies
the Secretary writes:—

“ We are glad to report that our appeal for a
‘ Mile ’ of Pennies has had an immediate re-
sponse from many members and friends, and so
far the result is very gratifying. We should be
extremely grateful for the gifts of others whose
collecting cards have not yet been returned.

“ The month of August usually calls for a
demand on our limited income as it is the month
when we challenge the resumption of the shame-
ful ‘ sport ’ of deer-hunting. There is evidence
that the Hunt is in a precarious condition due to
our continuous agitation, and having put our
hand to the plough, we dare not relax our efforts
until this iniquity is entirely abolished.”

3’

scheme,

 




August, l 934

 

CRUEL SPORTS

Page Sixty—one

 

 

was placed in a bag, driven by car to where the
Hunt had proceeded and thrown to the hounds.

Let those who contend that there is nothing
cruel about fox-hunting read the chapter on the
Fox in “ Habits and Characters of British Wild
Animals,” by the world-famous naturalist, Mr.
H. Mortimer Batten, who writes:

“But many a fox who has fooled and bafﬂed
the hounds and given them a glorious run has
won his freedom only at the cost of his consti-
tutional ﬁtness. Emerging at length from his
sanctuary, after a rest of many hours, he is
no longer the wonderful running machine that
he was when the hounds took up his scent, but
is now a broken creature—lungs gone, heart
gone—merely a physical wreck. And, again,
many an exhausted fox, seeking shelter in a
wet drain, lies there till, sick and. chilled, and
his vitality becoming low, he falls a victim to
the fatal red mange, the scourge of the fox
kind. In the mountains of the north, where
the rugged nature of the country does not per-
mit of fox-hunting, red mange is quite un-
common among the foxes, simply because they
are never run to exhaustion. The enormous
distance a fox will cover in a single day, lead-
ing the hounds at full cry for hours on end,
tells its own story. His powers. of endurance
may be marvellous, but after all he is only
ﬂesh and blood, and when, at the end of hours
of running, he sets out with pounding heart and
panting breath for quite new country—away
over the hills in a last mighty effort—~w-e know
that the end must be near. How one’s heart
goes out to the fox, dragging on and on with
foes at every side. seen at every open gate,
shouted at and turned aside, and always with
the awful death-like ‘music’ at his heels!”

\Vhenever an evil practice is arraigned before
the bar of public opinion, its protagonists usually
urge the plea that it provides employment. Fox—
hunters contend that their “sport” beneﬁts the
farming community, though a prominent ofﬁcial
of the Derbyshire Branch of the National
Farmers’ Union, who lives near the Meynell
Hunt Kennels, wrote to the Derby Telegraph in
1932 that: “ Most farmers, if they spoke their
mind, would tell you that hunting is not a scrap
of good to them. The farmers are not nearly
compensated for the damage that is caused by
hunting. It is all very well for people with
plenty of time to spare and very little land of
their own, to ride over property doing damage
and causing considerable annoyance, but it is
the farmer who has to bear the larger part of the
expense.” Sir Edward. Brown, the Advisory
Secretary of the National Poultry Council, has
stated that: “ Nothing has prevented the ex-
tension of egg and poultry production in Great

Britain and making us independent of imported
supplies as much as fox preservation.”

The general adoption of the drag—hunt, which
is popular in several districts, would provide em-
ployment for those now engaged in connection
with fox-hunting.

If it is necessary that the ravages of the fox
should be checked, farmers and gamekeepers
will protect their property, using the most
practical method of destruction which appeals to
their judgment. Such killing has nothing to be
said against it. But the needless preservation,
the harrying and the mangling of foxes by hounds
fer sport, i.e., “pleasure,” is not only wanton
and deliberate cruelty but degrading to all who
participate in it. The time is at hand When we
should demand that our wild creatures should
receive the same protection from cruelty that
tame ones now enjoy.

i

YUNIOR SECTION FORMED

The inaugural meeting of the newly-formed
Darlington Junior Section of the League was held
on Wednesday, June 6th, at the Friends’ Meeting
House, Darlington. Miss Margaret Henson, the
Leader of the Branch, presided. Thirty-four
young people were enrolled as members. It was
decided to call the Section the “ Teesdale ”
Branch, and to hold meetings the third VVednes-
day in every month, with the exception of the
month of August. Miss Henson contributed to
the enjoyment of the meeting by her interesting
stories of wild animal life. A postcard from
the Bristol Branch of the League conveying their
best wishes for the success of the Branch
was much appreciated. The Hon. Secretary is
Miss W. Bettina Bennett, Oakwood, Linden
Avenue, Darlington.

9* . #- *

The Kill

Sir—By publishing the photo entitled “ The
Kill” you illustrate the revolting nature of
“blood sports ” in a far more emphatic manner
than any mere letter of protest could possibly
do. But the title which would best describe
the scene depicted would be “ Butchered! To
give a few hours of selﬁsh amusement. ”——“C.L».”

Worthing Gazette.

9*

*
Cock-Fighting
Cock-ﬁghting was banned by law in l1841, but
it is as strongly supported by people whose an-
cestors gathered at the pit-side, as ever it was.
Wealthy people are at the back of these mains,
on the result of which large sums of money
depend.

Sunday Mercury.

 




Page Sixty—two C R U E L

SPORTS

August, I934

 

(TTTERJNZNTING

“ In truth, the otter is among the most grace-
ful and beautiful of living things, a perfect
sample of animal activity; but its perfection is
its very life, its beauty in its ever—changing poses,
each pose full of grace and ease.” Thus writes
the well-known naturalist, Mr. H. Mortimer
Batten, of one of the most peaceful members
of our lesser-known wild fauna which is still
subject to man’s inhumanity.

This fascinating creature is of nomadic habits,
spending its life migrating from river to river.
The home or holt, as it is called, of the otter is
located in the bank of a river and here the baby
otters are born and live with their mother until
they are old enough to take care of themselves.
These beautiful little fur-coated creatures may
arrive at any season of the year, thus it occasion-

ally happens that bitch-otters suckling cubs are
killed by hounds, and the cubs perish through
starvation.

A correspondent in the Manchester Guardian
has described the delightful whistles with which
a mother otter calls her little ones which are as
pleasing as the sight of the otter in her anxiety
transporting her cubs, taking their little cheeks
in her fore-paws as she swims to safety, mewing
to them as a cat mews to her kittens. Like
kittens, the cubs are averse to water and they
have to be taught lesson by lesson the art of
SW1mming.

Otters are very playful, spending hours to-
gether rolling and tumbling in the water, sparring
and closing in mimic combat. and sliding down
the “water-shutes” near their dens. They are
the most light-hearted. faithful and aﬁectionate
creaturesin all the wide countryside, and where

circumstances permit, remain mated for life.
Many anglers contend that the presence of
otters is inimical to our ﬁsheries, but naturalists
have proved from the observation of the ways of
these creatures and also from the examination
of the stomachs of dead otters that they do more
good than harm, by killing oﬁ the eels which
are inveterate enemies of trout fry.
Otter-hunting has been called “ the sport of
the man who is lost when he is not hunting some-
thing,” and indeed, only the unimaginative,
whose main object in life is the gratiﬁcation of
a selﬁsh lust for pleasure, could harry such a
beauteo-us creature. The hunt is unusually pro-
longed, often lasting three, four or ﬁve hours,
whilst hunts of six, seven and even eight hours.
are not unknown. Should the persecuted creature

persistently evade capture, followers of the hunt
will form a line across the stream and endeavour
to prevent its escape. When hunting a mill-
stream the services" of the miller are often re~
quisitioned to draw off the water to enable
hounds to overhaul their quarry. The. ﬁnal mob-
bing and death of an otter is a degrading sight in
which the hounds and their folloWers, consisting
of men and women, old and young, and even
little children, are worked up to the highest pitch
of excitement. Such scenes are bound to have
an adverse moral effect on all who participate in
them.

Anyone who subjected a domestic creature to
a tithe of the suffering inﬂicted on an otter during
the course of a hunt would be brought before a
Magistrate and charged with cruelty to animals,
yet “sportsmen” can indulge in these shameful
orgies with impunity. Our rare wild fauna should

 




August, I 934

be guarded with the same vigilance from the
hands of the destroyer as our rare wild ﬂora, and
these who wantonly destroy sentient wild
creatures in Sport should be dealt with in the
same manner as those who uproot rare plants or
set ﬁre to a heath.

We urgently appeal to all who consistently
desire that wild creatures shall have the same
protection from cruelty that tame ones now
enjoy to Join the League for the Prohibition of
Cruel Sports, and help forward the Crusade of
Justice and .Mercy for our lesser brethren of

the countryside.
9! '1'

OTTERS HUNTED FOR I34 YEARS

Masters of ﬁve hunts attended the annual
puppy show of Kendal and District Otter Hounds
at Dallam Tower on Friday. They were Sir
Maurice Bromley Wilson (Kendal and District
0. H”) Mr. J. H. W. Harrison— —Broadley (Vale of
Lune Harriers), Miss Freda Weston (Lunesdale
and Oxenholme Staghounds), Capt. W. F.
‘Gaddum (Windermere Harriers), and Mr. W. B.
Logan (Coniston Foxhounds).

In an interesting history of otter hunting and
the Kendal and district pack Sir Maurice Brom-
ley-Wilson said their country had been hunted
continuously for at least 134 years. Further
than that he had no records. “ I have hunted
your hounds for 42 years and I shall enjoy doing
so until I can no longer walk,” concluded Sir

Maurice.
Westmorland Gazette.

*l- i

i
The Wylye Hunt
Is the Wylye Valley Hunt a
masters serve an apprenticeship?
West ’of England Hunt, 'within the paSt six years
has had no fewer than seven masters, and mem—
bers complain that they cannot retain the ser-

‘school where
This famous

R. Corbett, who

vices of a master. Capt.
replied to several

recently left the hunt has
criticisms.

He describes the questidn as ‘ sarcastic and
ludicrous,” and says he would be sorry to ap-
prentice himself to any trade or profession at
. the mature age of 49, and certainly not to
hunting hounds, which is a lifetime job.

“ I served my apprenticeship endeavouring to
hunt hounds long before I knew the Wylye
Valley were in existence, he states. “ I came
to this country in May, 1932, having refused the
mastership of two other packs. My intention
was to remain for many long years, but the utter
lack of interest has, not been conducive to my
carrying out my intent. The general apathy
where hunting is concerned is lamentable.’

The Brzstol Da2l2/ Press.

(

CRUEL SPORTS

Page Sixty-three

a

“MAY I ASK WHY?”

Sir, ———A correspondent writes of the wonderful
joy of the wildfowler:

‘In one day’s shoot ten guns killed 400 wild
geese, over- 100 wild duck, 75 green plover, and
70 golden plover.” .

May I, timidly, and at the risk of showing my
supreme ignorance of the “joy of a wildfowler,”
ask: Why?

I personally would tramp many miles to see a
single live golden plover—so rare and beautiful—
but, then, I have a bird sanctuary, and am no
“ wildfowler.”

(Mrs ) May Thompson.

“ Daily Mail.”

90! *1 9F

Yorks.

Horse-Racing Crueltz'es

Mr. Geoffrey Gilbey threw a bomb into racing
circles some time ago by statements in the
Sunday Express that gross cruelty goes on on the
racecourse.

“ Letter after letter has reached me,” he
said “ from responsible racing men and women,
who have told me that they have been disgusted
at what they have seen in races.

“ It would be interesting to know where so-
called sport ends and cruelty begins,” he con-
tinues. “ If there are still weals on a two-year-
old weeks after it has had a race, in spite of
every effort to get rid of them, it is surely border-
ing on the cruel. The time is coming,” he adds,
“ when a jockey will be prosecuted. If a man
in the street were to hit a horse as I have seen
some two-year-olds hit in races he
would almost be lynched by the passers-by. Yet
in the name of sport we tolerate this kind of thing
on our racecourses.”

We commend this matter to our readers and
hope they will take the matter up in the Press
whenever suitable opportunity offers.

i‘ *- 9%

Fair Play—and Foul
Should children play at “ Chickens and the
Fox,”
And ask him
should say
“ Midnight,” they run, the knickers and the
frocks.
Should they reach home they’re safe.
That’s how they play.
But- should their elders play at
Hound,”
And Reynard Weary with the chase and worn
Hies him to his home and goes to ground
They dig him out to be 1n pieces torn.
REV. S. CLAUDE TICKEI L

“ What’s o’clock?” and Fox

“ Fox and

 




Page Sixty—four —« c R-U E L s P o R T 5 August, 1934

 

The League For The Prohibition Of Cruel Sports

l0], Chandos House, Palmer Street, Westminster, S.W.l. Phone: Victoria 8496.

 

Hon. Treasurer—CANON F. L. DONALDSON. Secretary—J. C. SHARP.

 

Vice-Presidervtb

iADY CLARE ANNESLEY. GERALD GOULD, Esq. E. ROSSLYN MITCHELL, Esq.
JR HERBERT BARKER DAME LOUISA INNES LUMSDEN. HENRY W. NEVINSON, Esq.

MISS IV A . .
ALD. 16] ,R53§$A§?V}E§’ F.R.Soc.Lit., LL.D. (Edlnburgh). BEVERLEY NICHOLS, Esq.
(Ex-Pres” Nat. Un. T911139, LADY EMILY LUTYENS. EDEN PHILLPOTTS, Esq.

CANON DONALDSON (Westminster). DONALD MAOLEOD. Esq. PERCY A. SCHOLES, ESQ-
G. P. GOOCH, D.Litt. (Ex-Mbr. Brit. Olympic CL). DAME SYBIL THORNDIKE.

WHAT THE LEAGUE STANDS FOR

THE PRINCIPLE. That it is iniquitous to inﬂict suifering upon sentient animals for
the purposes of sport—“ pleasure ”!

IT CONDEMNS fox deer, hare, and otter—hunting, badger-digging, and rabbit and
hare-coursing. (See leaflet “ Blood Sports Condemned”)

IT DEMANDS the substitution for the animal of a Drag, which gives all the glamour
of a run with hounds Without the cruelty. (See leaﬂet “ Drag—hunting.”)

IT PROTESTS against the “ blooding ” of children, and demands its cessation ( See
leaﬂet “Blooded.”)

 

AN OFFER. A copy of the Journal and leaﬂets sent free to any address on application
to the Secretary. We shall also be glad to send a speaker to any Literary Society, Church
Groluiii),1 etc., if out-Of-pocket expenses are paid. Lantern slides and lecture notes are also
avai a e.

JOIN THE LEAGUE.

I hereby declare that I am opposed to blood sports of every kind and desire to join the
League for the Prohibition of Cruel Sports. ‘

I enclose herewith*

State
Whether
Mr., Mrs. ,
or Miss. ..................................................

'5/— per annum includes Ofﬁcial Journal monthly. Without the Journal, 2/6, Life. Members ,5.
Post this form, with remittance, to Secretary, L.P.C.S.. IOI, Chandos House, Westminster, S.W.I.

 

FORM OF BEQU EST.

To those who may be inclined to become Benefactors by will to the League, the following Form is
respectfully suggested :—

I bequeath unto the Society called THE LEAGUE FOR THE PROHIBITION or CRUEL SPORI‘S, Iondon, the sum
of. .. .. ................... . .. .. . free of Legacy Duty. And I direct that the same shall be paid to the

Treasurer for the time being of such last—mentioned Society. "

By virtue of.the Act. of Victoria. cap. 26, all Wills and Codicils must be in writing, signed by the Testator, and
attested by two Witnesses in the presence of the Testator and of each or er.

 

 

BRIGHTON._Id_eal , Boarding Establishment, pure BUDLEIGH SALTERTON, the Coastal Gem of_South Devon.
generous varled diet, Bedrooms h. and 0. water, gas Superior Board Residence. BedI‘QOIIlS With 11. and 0-
ﬁres, good garden, central, near Sea and Downs, inclu- running water, varied and attractive food. Adequate
sive terms—Tariff: Mr. and Mrs. Massingham, 16 and vegetarian meals if desired—Mr. and Mrs. Lonsdale
17, Norfolk Terrace. " Wormald, “Mountway.”

BEAUTIFUL BUTTE.RMERE.__Victoria Golf.Hotel. Season
terms £4/4/-, SW1ss balconies 10/6d. extra. (Quiet
periods ’75 per cent.)

Small prepaid advertisements are inserted at the rate of 192d. per word per insertion or 2/ 6d. per line,fo_r twelve
insertions and they should be received at the oﬂice by the 15th of the month for the followmg month 8 Issue.

Published by the LEAGUE FOR THE PROHIBITION OF CRUEL SPORTS, at 101, Chandos House, Palmer Street,
Westminster, S.W.1; and Printed for them by NUNEATON NEWSPAPERS, LTD., Bond Gate, Nuneaton.

 




