 

 

 

 

 

 

A411); 1939 Price 3d.

THE

ANIMALS

 

Photo by] “ Am! now xii; expectation in [be air.” f]. H. Stone

THE NATIONAL COUNCIL FOR ANIMALS’ WELFARE
26 GROSVENOR PLACE, WESTMINSTER, LONDON, S.W.I
Subscnptton for One Y ear, poi? free, 3/6

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND is publisbed montbb' by tbe l\Tational Couneil for Animals’ lVelfare
at 26 Grosaenor Plate, Westminster, London, S.W.1, and all eommunieations regarding tbe magazine
sbould be addressed to tbe Editor.

Editor: ROBERT H. SPURRIER.

 

 

 

 

Vol. XLV. lVlay, 1939. i No. 7.
C O N T E N T S .
Page Page
ANIMALS’ WELFARE \Y-‘EEK. ] L. Catber 212 SOME STARTLING FACTS—HEN BAT—

PERFORMING DOG ACTS. C. F. True . 214 TERIES ' ’ ‘ ' - - 7-29

LIVE AND LET LIVE. Cbarles Hoppe .. . 216
BIRDS OF CHARACTER. E. G. Bar/on! . 219

DEER RESCUES FAWN . . .
BOORABEE, THE KOALA BEAR. Helen ]ones 2 5 2

NATIONAL COUNCIL FOR ANIMALS’ \VEL—
FARE . . . . . . . 2 5 5

230

THE SEER OF MILLTHORPE. Basil Ham/ey—

 

 

James . . . . . . 220 ,
-. A NATIONAL SOCIETY FOR ABOLITION OF
LEONARD WHITE—AN 1 PPRECIATION CRUEL SPORTS . . . . ' 254
rMargaret Brad/sb . . . . 221
C b _ \I Cl k UNITED HUMANITARIAN LEAGUE . .
S. - S. ‘ - . t7 ' 1 222
OYDTER CATCHERb mi erine I LEAGUE FOR PROHIBITION OF CRUEL
EARTH—BORN COMPANION. Henry Turner 22 5 SPORTS . . _ _ . . 2 36
COUNTRY CAT . . . . . 225 PIT PONIES PROTECTION SOCIETY . . 2 37
FROM ONLOOKERS’ NOTE BOOK. Onloo/éer 226 SCOTTISH SOCIETY FOR PREVENTION OF
NATURE NOTES FOR MAY; Hudson Read . 227 V IVISECTION . . . . . 258
BIRDS 1N AGRICULTURE—THE ROOK . 228 CORRESPONDENCE . . . . . 259
Henry S. Salt. superfluous; tbere will be no more need for us to sit in

committees and to spend time in oontribing release for
animals from intolerable wrongs, time tbat migbt be more
fit/y spent in tbe worsbip of nature or of art. For
znben onee tbe oneness of life sball be reeognised, sue/J
practiees as blood-sports will be not only ebildisb but
impossible; irioiseetion untbinkable; and tbe butt/wry

The morning press of April 20th but announced the
passing of Henry S. Salt, the famous “ all-in ” humani-
tarian at the ripe age of 87. As many Of our readers are
aware, though there are others who do not know,
Mr. Salt was the founder, and for thirty years the Honor-
ar ’ Secretar of the Humanitarian Lea ue, and for a _ .
payrt, if not fyor the whole of its existenci, editor of the 0f 0”” fellow—animals for food an WWW”! 417”” 4120’
organ of the League, Tbe Humane Reeieu' which later of ”1" past.
became Tbe Humanitarian. It is impossible to estimate Here, in this passage taken from his Story of AIy
the effect Of his writing, with its devaStating logic and Cousins, we have the heart of Henry Salt’s great “Creed
humour and depth of feeling, on the progress of humane of Kinship.”
thought and feeling—probably it would be more true Readers of this magazine will be very pleased to hear
to say that it has been so great that it is impossible that Mr. Bertram Lloyd, a colleague of Mr. Salt in the
to overestimate it. He must be accounted as one of the work of the Humanitarian League and his close
greatest humanising inﬂuences of his day and generation. personal friend for many years, has kindly promised to
Truly he was a “ Mind—Changer ” but it was Henry S. contribute an article on Henry 8. Salt to the June issue
Salt who wrote :— of THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND, and to add to it his (H.S.S.’s)

Tbe intelleetual aspeet of tbe question bus, of course, farewell message which Mr. Lloyd read at the cremation.
to be fully considered. Nevertbeless, I am sure tbat tbe This message gives ﬁnal expression to his Creed of
ultimate word will be spoken not by tbe intellect but by tbe Kinship.

beart. W’ben onee a “ ebange of beart” bas taken . The Sympathy of us all will go out to Mrs. Salt
place, and kins/up bas been not merely argued and in her great 1035,
demonstrated but felt, any ﬁrrtber reasoning will be R. H. S.

210

 




 

 

 

May, 1939

Notes and Comments

Postponement of Spring Meeting.

It has been de—
cided to postpone
the Spring meeting
of the National
Council for Animals’
W e l f a r e a n -
nounced for May
23rd at 26, Gros-
venor Place, Lon-
don, S.W.I, until the
Autumn by which
season it is hoped
that the international
tension will be eased
and that our friends
and supporters may
be less preoccupied
withA.R.P.andother
calls than they are at
the present time.

 

Animals’ Welfare Week, 19 39.

We would remind our readers that the Week will be
celebrated as usual this year throughout the ﬁrst full
week in May. A special article, ﬁrst published in 1925,
on the meaning and purpose of the Week, from the
pen of Mr. J. L. Cather appears in this issue, which we
would supplement by some extracts taken from a
letter on Animals’ Welfare Week contributed by Mrs.
Carl Heath to The Friend of the 22nd April, last year.
Theletter is a compelling plea for “ re-thinking our
attitude towards, and our responsibility for ‘ our lesser
brethren,’ ” and contains the following passages :—

“ The Week, inaugurated in 1922 to commemorate
the centenary of Richard Martin, who was derided in Par—
liament for introducing his ‘ Ill—treatment of Cattle
Bill,’ started a movement which, whilst it has far to go
as yet, does offer ‘ the friend of every friendless beast ’
an increasingly wide ﬁeld of opportunity. In these days
especially, when we seem to be suffering from a relapse
into semi-barbarism, it behoves us the more to consider
whether the roots of cruelty go not deeper down into
our social structure than we had thought. Also in
what degree our behaviour to animals reacts on our own
character, conduct and environment, committing as we
do our fellows to degrading occupations, dulling the
sensibility of our children, and inhibiting the Operations
of a higher and better world than our own, whence
ﬂows the injunction to ‘ keep thy heart with all dili-
gence, for out of it are the issues of life.’ ”

An “Advice.”

The letter continues :—

“ It is not possible here to develop the theme in any
speciﬁc detail. Sufﬁce it to say that our food, our
fashions, our sport, our science and our amusements,
all draw on the animal creation to a degree whose neces-
sity is in grave dispute, and by methods which one can
only hope and believe will one day be shed as anachron-
isms and regarded as of a gross barbarity. To this con-
tention I might draw a cloud of witnesses. ‘ Let the
law of kindness know no limits. Show a loving con—
sideration for all God’s creatures,’ is an ‘ Advice ’ that
can be, and in measure is, observed within a domestic

211

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

circle, but as the circumference widens it becomes a
dead letter indeed.”

Finally, after pointing out the various ways by which
it is hoped to “ evoke sympathy and interest on behalf
of those who cannot speak for themselves,” the letter
concludes :—

“ And we must remember that the Christian
revelation is a progressive one, and following the light
in prOportion as we have it, we must look to ‘ do
justly, and to love mercy, and to walk humbly ’ with
God, building through the ages that temple of the
divine Humanity where ‘ they shall not hurt, nor
destroy in all my holy mountain, saith the Lord.’ ”

National Anti-Vaccination League.

The Annual Meeting of this Society will be held on
'SI‘hursday, May 11th, at Caxton Halll, Westminster,

.W.I.

The programme includes a Morning Conference
10.45 a.m.-I p.m.; an afternoon Public Meeting from
3-5 p.m., and a Conversazione from 7.3o-Io.3o p.m.
Barbara Domaire (Mrs. Jack Fairhurst) has kindly
undertaken to present her delightful musical show
“ Cabaret la Vienne ” at the Conversazione.

Object Lessons in Cruelty.

In our Correspondence columns (p. 240) we print
a letter from T. S. Hawkins entitled “ Object Lessons
in Cruelty,” which we hope will be pondered by all our
readers. The letter is a plea on behalf of the rooks
during the nesting season, when the annual massacre
of these birds takes place throughout Britain. Apart
from the destruction of the parent birds, many of the
nestlings fall back into the nest wounded or are caught
and ﬁxed in the fork of a tree ; others are left wounded
on the ground, the result being a lingering and cruel
death. A petition, calling upon Parliament to amend
the law so as to ensure the protection of these birds
during the breeding season and pointing out that such
destruction is against the interest of agriculture and
contrary to humane feeling, and injurious in its effect on
humane education, is in circulation and can be had on
application to T. S. Hawkins, The Old Cottage,
Woodley, Berks. Will you send for one and obtain
on it the 32 signatures necessary to complete it—or
half—a-dozen signatures if you cannot manage more?

Only a Cattle Dog Mongrel.

Miss R. A. Eldridge, Hon. Secretary of the Mel—
bourne Branch of the B.U.A.V., sends the following
interesting story of the loyalty of a dog which Mr. Leo
Roderhurst has been good enough to send to the
Editor for publication in THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND.

“ Some persons of the generic name of Smith owned
a house on the Wonga Road, nine miles out of Ring-
wood, and, going for a trip to the seaside, left as care-
taker a man who owned a dog—just a bit of a
cattle dog mongrel, such as you will see by the dozen
on the Australian Bush roads. Fires broke out in the
vicinity ; the man, like every other man who could wield
a beater, was called out to ﬁght the ﬂames. The dog he
left in charge of the house. While he was away ﬁre
from another quarter approached the dwelling. The
dog on his own initiative, drove the cow down to the
dam and into the water, returning to his post beneath
the tank at the door of the now burning house.
Passers by, fleeing for their lives, saw the animal, and
tried by every hurried inducement they could to
persuade him to come away to safety, but his master
not being there to release him from his trust, the devoted
creature perished, ‘ faithful unto death.’ "

 

 

 




 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

 

May, 1939

Animals’ Welfare Week

BY J. L. CATHER.
(In iriew 0f tile fort/yearning 182%) Celebration of .xélninia/r’ IVe/fare Wee/é frain t/ye
7t/J—I4t/9 Airy), we are reprinting t/ie fol/owing appropriate artie/e [7y t/ie Hon. .
Secretary of the N ationa/ Connei/ for Anirna/r’ Welfare, n/ln'e/J was first pan/irked

in tbe year 1925.——EDITOR, “ A.F. ”)

THE reform
of abuses
is but slow—
ly attained, the
more so if the
abuses are them-
selves of long
standing. This
is notably the case
with the ill—
treatment of ani—

Polar Bear. mals. It is an
evil probably as old as man himself, one which
has grown through the ages, is still growing
in some directions, and can only be reduced by
strenuous exertions on the part of those
who see whither it is leading us. The soil in
which it grows is largely composed of ignor—
ance ; an ignorance which should be removable.

There is scarcely any phase of our lives
which at present is not linked at some point
with the suffering of the animal world; and
at each of these points we should ask. ourselves
the questions :

Is this necessary to everybody?

If not, why is it necessary to me?

How can I avoid it myself, or prevent
others from practising it?

Here are some of the problems on which
these questions may be raised. Food: fish,
ﬂesh or fowl. Clothing: silk, fur, and
feathers. Amusement: the hunting of free,
and the keeping of captive creatures. \‘C’ork:
overloading and bad conditions of beasts of
burden. Neglect and brutality: whether
through ignorance or ill-will. Vivisectional
research: whether on the plea of desire for
knowledge, or of hope for the discovery of
cures for human ills.

In none of these cases can the answer to the
ﬁrst question be “ Yes.” We may therefore
pass on to the second. This question we must
ask and answer for ourselves; nobody else
can supply the answer for us, or balance the
different arguments for and against continu—
ance. It needs much searching of heart and
weighing of motive, and probably in the result
few of us are entirely honest with ourselves

 

or do not in some degree make a bargain with
our consciences.

That bargain made, we come to the third
question; and here, generally, we begin to
specialize. There is some particular evil
which we especially dislike, some particular
reform which we wish to establish, some
particular kind of creature of which we are
especially fond. And so we found or join an
organisation which is in conformity with our
own objects and desires. In this way a large
number of different societies have come into
being, each having its own objects and consti—
tution, each directed to the redress of some
one of the many abuses which together make
up the whole burden of cruelty under which
animals suffer.

Specialisation of this kind is necessary for
effective action, as it is in all forms of develop—
ment ; for otherwise energy would be diffused
over too great an area. A single society
devoted to the welfare of animals in all its
branches would be weighted with too heavy a
programme; and, continually presented with
so large a demand for reform, public opinion,
upon which reform mainly waits, would be
bewildered. Groups conﬁned to a single
demand are able to take advantage of any
chance opportunity which may lend insistence
to it, any circumstance which may emphasise
it. An example of this is the recent exposure
of the way in which dogs are obtained for
vivisection, which has given so great an
impetus to the demand for their protection
from this evil.

On the other hand, specialisation brings
with it certain drawbacks. Those who are
working for one reform sometimes tend to
forget the other reforms which also need to
be secured. Even reformers are not immune
from the human afﬂiction which leads people
to say, “ \Why do you spend your energies and
money on t/iat: why not come and work for
tnir instead? ” And even when the objective
is the same, some may be ready to accept
reform piecemeal, advancing one stage at a
time, while others demand all or nothing.
Further, public opinion, impressed by some

212'

 

1
!




 

May, I 939

one of the demands on which at the time
greater insistence is being made, may conclude
that that one is the only problem needing
attention.

The hold on the imagination which any
kind of an anniversary obtains is too well
known to need enlarging upon; with this in
mind, a special celebration in 1922 of the
Centenary of “ Martin’s Act ”—that ﬁrst of
acts admitting the rights of animals—was made
by animal lovers in this country. In that
celebration organisations for animals’ welfare
of all kinds joined forces, and the interest and
enthusiasm aroused led to the idea of insti—
tuting an Animals’ Welfare \Week as an Annual
and National event. With this in view the
National Council for Animals’ \Welfare Week
was formed and work began. The response
has justiﬁed the attempt. The idea has been
taken up in t0wn after town, district after
district, and each of our different national
areas is now being separately organised.

The forms of demonstration adopted during
Animals’ Welfare \Veek necessarily vary in
different places according to the tastes and
ideas of the local committees. Processions
and poster parades, essay and poster competi—
tions, lectures and lantern or ﬁlm displays in
schools and in public, sermons and special
prayers in churches, bazaars and concerts,
circularisation of public bodies, articles in the

Photo by] “ I saw the sheep with their lainhs

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

Press—these are some of the methods of
publicity adopted.

The National Council includes all sections
of the Animals’ \X/elfare movement. It neither
advocates as its own any of the views individu-
ally held by its supporters and friends, nor
seeks to interfere with or control them. It
exists to help the purpose of each section by
emphasising the unity of inspiration which
underlies them all, and by binding them
together in mutual sympathy, while bringing
before the public attention during this one
week of every year the many aspects of the
whole movement.

Our mental attitude with regard to the
treatment of animals is slowly but surely
changing, and more and more clearly it is
being recognised that our exploitation of their
helplessness is a horrible and a shameful thing.
Everyone who will can help to change the
thought of our world and bring nearer the
time when all shall realise the essential unity
of all life, and the victimisation of those weaker
than ourselves shall be no longer possible.

“ Why may nota goose say thus: ‘All the parts of the uni-
verse share an interest in me: the earth serves nee to walk upon,
the sun to light me; the stars have their influence upon me;
I have such an advantage by the winds and such hy the waters ;
there is nothing that you heavenly roof looks upon so favourably
as nze, I am the darling of Nature! Is it not man that
helps, lodges and seroes nze.’ ”

MICHEL DE MONTAIGNE.

 

[F. R. Winstone, A.R.P.S.

And thought upon the Lamb of God.”

213

BZ

 

 

 




 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

May, 1939

Performing Dog Acts

BY C. F. TRUE

“ I do not like flag/72,” my: flag aid/Jar iii flair ammo/€671 artii/e on a sub/mt of public infers”.

T is seldom indeed that I get any pleasurable
thrill out of the performances of dogs on
the stage or in the circus. Often the tricks
themselves do not appeal to me: they are
lundignified and tend to belittle the animals:
still more often they are unnatural and at
variance with the instincts of the dog, so that
the performer must fail entirely to appreciate
the signiﬁcance of what it is doing, and why.

Simple tricks which involve running and
jumping, or which exercise the natural in—
stincts or senses of the dog, will be performed
by the animal with eVident enjoyment: but
can anyone say with any show of reason that
a dog enjoys walking on its front paws, or
balancing itself on one front paw, with its
body and hind legs upright in the air?

Such tricks as these—and others that will
occur to people who have seen certain dog
acts—are absolutely contrary to the natural
habits and instincts of the animal. It is no
argument to say that human performers—-
acrobats, balancers, contortionists, even dan—
cers—perform feats which are not natural to
man: for these people do them of their own
volition: they understand what they do, and
why they do it. The performing dog, in too
many cases, is just the victim of a malign fate
which it cannot understand but must endure.

I usually feel very uneasy when I see per—
forming animals: I cannot help wondering
how they were trained. Of course, not all
dogs on the stage or in the circus ring are
subject to cruel methods of training. Dogs
can be trained to the most surprising feats by
methods of kindness alone—by developing
and exploiting their natural intelligence and
their inherent instincts. Anyone knows that
who has attended Sheepdog trials, police-dog
tests, or seen Guide dogs at work, or the
obedience tests at dog shows.

But not all professional canine performers
are trained by kindness. Without a doubt
there is much less cruelty employed now in
training dogs to be public performers than
there once was : and British~trained dogs were
never at any time so badly handled as those of
some other countries. Continental trainers
were always the worst offenders.

The trouble is that, for anyone who makes
a living by presenting performing dogs to the
public, the temptation to employ cruel methods
of training is very great. Anyone with any
experience of dog—training knows that it may
take many months to instil the habit of
obedience in a young dog, and to teach it a
few simple feats. To train a dog in a series
of elaborate tricks, and to get it to such a
pitch of efficiency that it performs in public
at all times on the instant of command, and
with a slickness and ﬁnish that human per—
formers might envy—to do that obviously
takes a very long time, and an inﬁnitude of
care and patience, if the dog is coaxed to do
it for love of his master.

But by making fear the basis of the training
instead of kindness the dog can be got to do
seemingly impossible feats in a very short
time. I know of some of the methods that
have been employed to train performing dogs
in the past, and the thought of them makes
my blood boil. That dog that balances so
daintily on one front paw, with its body up—
reared in air—how long did it take it to master
that feat}> Sometimes not very long. The
trainer’s assistant suspended the dog in mid—
air by cords attached to its hind legs. Then
the kind—hearted trainer came forward and
slipped his hand under the front paw of the
dog : and very quickly the poor animal learned
that if it put its weight on that front leg it
relieved the agonising strain on the hind legs
—-and so it learned to balance.

The “ dirty work ” of this kind was done
by the assistant, whom the dog hated and
feared: the trainer appeared always as the
blessed being who granted relief from pain—-
if the dog did the particular thing he wanted.
it to do. It would not do for the dogs to
express their hatred and fear of the trainer
when they appeared with him before the public :
and the people, seeing the affection which the
dogs displayed towards their master, settled
themselves in their seats with the comforting
reﬂection that at any rate there had been no
cruelty in the training of these dogs: their
wagging tails showed how much they enjoyed

214

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

May, 1939

performing and how much they loved their
trainer.

The wagging tails and the demonstrations
of affection are a very important part of the
performance, and in some cases more care (and
more pains to the dog) were taken to secure
these than were devoted to the more spec—
tacular tricks.

In some of the cinema films of performing
dogs that were exhibited a few years ago
(practically all of them made in America)
almost equally cruel methods were employed.
The dogs, which aped human beings at work
and play, were not educated or trained in any
sense of the term : they were merely animated
puppets, whose movements were controlled
by invisible wires and other revolting devices.

When I see professional performing dogs I
know that quite possibly the methods employed
in their training may have been such as no
humane person could object to: and again,
quite possibly they may not have been. And
so I am always uneasy in the presence of such
spectacles. I pity and am sorry for any dog
condemned to spend its life in a theatre or
music-hall or circus: even at their very best,
its conditions of life are grossly artiﬁcial and
unnatural, and it can know nothing of real
freedom—even such freedom as the dog in
the city ﬂat knows.

(Reprinted from “ Tbe Tai/u/agger ” 0f December,
1938, by kind permission of tbe Proprietors and of
fbe amber of z‘be ariz'e/e.)

Photo by] Happy—will.) web a motber.

215

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

Feedlng Dogs

The dog is not expected by nature to
masticate his food. It is what we term
“ bolted ” and enters the stomach in large
pieces. Food must therefore remain in the
stomach of the dog for a much longer period
than in animals which masticate their food
in the mouth before it enters the stomach.
It is a known fact that the same food eaten
by a dog takes twice as long to undergo
stomach digestion as it does in man. Over—
feeding is unquestionably the cause of much
sickness and disease in dogs. Twice a day is
often enough to feed a mature, healthy dog.
A light meal for the morning feeding should
consist of milk or milk and stale whole wheat
bread or shredded wheat. The evening meal
should consist of raw or cooked beef or lamb.
Liver and kidney , may be fed occasionally,
always raw. Cooking destroys their value
and makes them hard to digest.

Cooked leafy vegetables, such as spinach,
cabbage and lettuce, may be mixed with the
meat. Such ﬁbrous vegetables as carrots,
beets and string beans should always be
thoroughly cooked and crushed. Never feed
them to a dog with a sensitive stomach, as
at best they are hard to digest. Such starchy
foods as mashed potatoes, rice and white bread
may be fed sparingly unless obesity or eczema
develops; then they must be discontinued
entirely. (Our Dumb Animals, March, 1939.)

 

U. H. Stone

 

 

 

 




 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

Live and

May, 1939

Let Live

By CHARLES HOPPE.

(Plyoz‘ogmpbr by [oz/Neg! of Sam/9 Africa” Raj/may; and Harboum.)

 

 

A living Skywmper—nger National Park.

ITHOUT wishing to weigh the pros

K x / and cons of conservation in the United

States, compared with the Union of

South Africa, it must nevertheless be admitted,

and freely, that that British Dominion has

given conservationists a splendid example of

restoring to unfettered freedom its multi—
tudinous varieties of wild game.

South Africa’s ﬁve million acre Kruger
National Park is to-day the world’s foremost
game sanctuary. But it was not always thus.
Situated in what was at one time known as
the Sabie Game Reserve, in the south—
eastern part of the country, between the
Olifants and Sabi Rivers, this vast domain
of wild life as short as three decades ago
seemed doomed to virtual extinction.

From time immemorial, elephant, hippo,
lions, leopards, Cheetahs, giraffe, indeed, every
variety of the antelope family from the little
twelve inch high dikdik antelope to the
majestic eland, had roamed in their thousands
across rolling veld country and grazed by the
lush river banks of the reserve.

Then came the white man. Very soon, in

as short a time as thirty years, the balance of
nature was destroyed. Indiscriminate slaugh—
ter was the order of the day. The territory
was too vast to be patrolled by the few game
wardens in command. More wardens were
not available, due to lack. of Government
appropriation. Then, with the \World War,
and with its aftermath, fortunately there came
sane reason.

For a long time a number of far—sighted and
public—spirited men had urged the Government
of the Union of South Africa to purchase
privately owned land in the reserve and add
it to government land to form a great national
park. Of course, there was, as there is in any
country, a considerable section of people that
considered the entire undertaking crazy.
What? Appropriate thousands of square
miles so that wild animals could roam at
large? Leaders of the movement to found
the Kruger National Park (named in honour
of President “ Oom ” Paul Kruger, President
of the old Transvaal Republic) were assailed
on all sides by the unthinking. Unjust criti—
cism was hurled at their heads on the score
that the reserve would only end up as the
private shooting preserve of a few privileged
politicians and their friends.

Let it not be thought for a moment that the
project wasn’t beset with the utmost difficulties.
The \World \‘C’ar had not helped any in stopping
poaching, for most of the game wardens had
been called to the colours. However, around
1920 the Chief \Warden returned and resumed
duty. As an innate lover of wild life, he
found to his intense sorrow, indeed, to his
fury, that the game laws of the reserve’s wild
life had become a mockery. Raiding bands
of native tribes trapped, snared and slaughtered
everything at hand, from the smallest antelope
to eland, koodoo and buffalo. The most
amazing part of it all was that predatory
animals such as lions, leopards and wild dogs
managed to exist at all, so great had been the
slaughter of their natural source of food.
\‘C’hite men and their guns had, if possible,
been even more reckless in their insensate hunt
for game.

Perhaps the lead set to the world by the
Yellowstone National Park gave fruition to the

216

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

May, 1939

desire of the nationally-minded
South Africans to have just
such a park in their own country.
At all events, principal credit
must be given to Colonel Deneys
Reitz, at that time South Africa’s
Minister for Lands, Mr. J.
Sommerville, O.B.E., Secretary
for the Department of Lands,
and the present Warden of the
Kruger National Park, Lieuten—
ant—Colonel J. Stevenson Hamil-
ton, L.L.D., F.R.G.S., C.M.Z.S.
Incidentally, it might be added
that the present warden has
held his incumbency since 1902.
He probably knows more about
wild life, its habits and require—
ments, than any other authority
in South Africa.

A concerted publicity campaign followed.
Artists and writers, newspapermen and public
bodies gave their support to reveal to South
Africans what a paradise for tourists lay
within the country’s boundaries but—only if
something drastic was done, and that imme—
diately, to protect what game remained from
the depredations of war years.

Railroads aided materially, by stopping
trains for a while on the outskirts of the reserve,
so that the South African travelling public
might view game close at hand. An Act
known as the National Parks Act was even-
tually passed in the Union’s Houses of Par—
liament. A board of trustees, selected for its
knowledge of wild life, was appointed by the
Minister of Lands. Special ﬁnancial grants
went toward buying up privately
owned land, and further grants
were set aside to make the
Kruger National Park a sanc—
tuary for animals the like the
world has never seen. Rest
camps situated at strategic points
now afford tourists all the plea—
sures of living in the wilds
without any of its inconveni—
ences.

No hand or gun is raised
against the Kruger National
Park’s denizens. So strict are
the laws now against hunting
in any manner or form, that
such an offence would bring not
only a ﬁne but imprisonment.
And that law goes for the white
man as well as the black man.

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

 

I mpa/a—Krager National Park.

Colonel Stevenson Hamilton’s foreword to
his most interesting descriptive booklet on his
domain should be the [ez'z‘azez‘gf of every game
sanctuary in the world. For beauty of ex—
pression I know of none more adequate and
noble. It reads as follows :

W” e ‘
T/9e Animals of fee Krager Naiieaa/ Pane,
Appeal for Year Sympatlyl aaa’ Friends/92p.
Yea Hal/e Beea Oar Bz'z‘z‘er Eaemz’ex for 50

Long T/yaz‘ It Taker Time 2‘0 Make Us

Uaa’erz‘aad That a New and Happier Em

Hay Began for Us—-— Do blot Betray Oar
Traci in Yea.

And what has been the result of what so

many of the opposition toward the conser-

vation project termed as a crazy harebrained
idea?

 

IVaz‘erbaaé—Krzger N atiom/ Park.

217

 

 

 

 




THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

 

“ At times, 2‘ng7] precede an automobile.”

\Well, for one thing, to—day you can motor
through the Kruger National Park and see
lions and lionesses lazily lounging by the
roadside. They regard you with bored look.
At times, mimbz'le dicta, they’ll precede an
automobile, and the driver is forced to go
into second gear until King Leo deigns to
move from the road!

You may see herds of zebras drinking by
the river banks, or great schools of hippos, or
elephants lazily ﬂapping their great ears, the
bulls standing quietly by the cow elephants
and their calves. They shamble off uncon-
cernedly when a car passes. Eland, almost as
big as a steer, koodoo, tsessebe, roan and
sable antelope, bushbuck, steenbuck, duiker—
all these and many more of the antelope
family graze placidly beside the highway,
undisturbed by the passing presence of man.

 

May, 1939

The park’s warden explains why the park’s
lions and other wild life are so tame.

Lions are numerous throughout and are
constantly seen by visitors. They betray no
fear of motor cars, which at present they, in
common with the other animals, have not
learned to associate with. the presence of man.
Lions realise that a motor car is of no interest
to them from a culinary point of View. It has
no scent to appeal to them while it is probable
that the smell of petrol (gasoline) overcomes
all else. Therefore, a motor car is a strange
object which at first may arouse a certain
amount of curiosity, but later becomes a thing
of no interest, not to be feared, as in their
experience it is harmless, and at the same time
an object which there is no point in attacking.
The lion, when not frightened, angry or in
pursuit of its natural prey, is a lazy good—
natured animal, liking to go through life easily
and to take as little out of himself as possible
——much like other cats, in fact. Accordingly,
he regards a motor car in much the same light
as the domestic cat looks upon a child’s
automatic toy.

The Warden states that his staff of assistants
have often encountered lions by the roadside,
from which they refused to budge. In every
case, when the car is distant from them only

‘ a few yards, they lazily rise, walk a few yards

away and then lie down. He has even noticed
young lion cubs and other young wild life
walk up close and smell a car from a few
yards away. '
Those living skyscrapers, the giraffes, can
often be seen—and close at hand, stretching
their graceful legs into an in-
verted V, as they drink peace-
fully beside the African buffalo.
Here and there may be seen
herds of sable antelope. These
antelope, cornered by either
man or beast, can be most
dangerous under ordinary cir-
cumstances. Years' ago, in
Northern Rhodesia, I recollect
having seen a sable antelope at
bay disembowel a dog with
one single sweep of its needle
sharp horns. However, in the
Kruger National Park, they
merely gaze at the motorist
with little or no curiosity.

This is but part of the story
of the Kruger National Park.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

I doubt if prosaic black and

Lion and Lioness—Kruger National Park.

218

 

 




 

 

 

 

May, 1939

white can adequately express its many
wonders, its supremely beautiful scenes of
wild life thriving under conditions not imposed
upon them, but given back to them without re-
striction by those far-sighted South Africans
who have been instrumental in desiring natural,
humane conditions not for the sake of hunters,
but for wild life’s sake.

(\V’ith acknowledgements to the Author and to the
National Humane Review, America).

Birds of Character

BY E. G. BARLOW.

 

  

. v” \ll!
\erA \W/ .

T/ye Eagle the King of Birdy !—
(Dutch woodcut I480—the earliest Dutch woodcut
known.)

LE XANDER NECKAM, a twelfth-cen-
Atury learned man, in his Treaz‘z're, writes
of popular facts, contemporary anecdotes,
and curious beliefs regarding animals. we
read that the great medizeval castles and
mansions resembled so many menageries of
rare beasts. Also that our early forefathers
were very fond of blood sports and of the
animals which were used for hunting.

He tells how a hawk one day, by cunning
and accident, not by mere strength, killed an
eagle. “ This occurred in Great Britain, the
King of which country, with his courtiers,
were witnesses of the occurrence. The
courtiers applauded the ferocity of the weaker
bird, which, too, had only killed his adversary
in self defence; but the King interfered,
reproved his followers for expressing senti—
ments which justiﬁed the employment of force
by vassals against their Sovereigns and ordered
the. Hawk to be hanged immediately as guilty
of treason”!

Neckam says that the hawk, in winter cold,
will seize in his claws a partridge, wild chick,
or some other bird, and hold the prisoner under
his belly in order to beneﬁt by the warmth;
and when the warmth of day returned, the
hawk, however hungry he might be, set the
bird free, in consideration of services derived!
Neckam tells another story of a hawk which

 

 

 

 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

vanquished an eagle; and of a weasel which
caught, and dragged a sparrowhawk under
water.

The parrot was a popular cage bird in the
middle ages. The writer speaks of the bird’s
mischievousness, of his skill in imitating the
human voice, adding that for exciting the
people’s mirth the parrot was preferable to
the itinerant minstrels. Among the twelfth-
century birds he mentions are the peacock,
pheasant, swan, ostrich, nightingale, nuthatch,
ibis, dove, lark and magpie. The sparrow is
a lustful bird (eight centuries have not altered
his character l): “injurious to the fruits of
man’s labour,” too cute for the bird catcher,
and subject to epilepsy. The raven, by his
colour and habits, was an emblem of the clergy ;
the cock, a symbol of the Christian preacher.
A crow foretold rain by his clamourousness.
The saliva of the cuckoo produced grasshoppers.
The pelican killed her own young, and, in self—
remorse, tore open her own body to shed her
blood over the young to revive them.

A curious thing about the wren was that
when killed and put on a spit before the ﬁre
to roast, the corpse required no turning, but
turned itself with the utmost regularity!
Though the smallest of birds the wren claimed
to be their king. When all the birds assembled
to choose a king, the wren concealed himself
beneath the eagle’s wing when it was agreed
that the throne should be given to the bird
which mounted highest. And when the eagle,
having soared the highest, claimed the prize,
the wren came out of his hiding place, jumped
on the eagle’s back, and claimed to be the
highest of all, and king of the birds.

HOW MUCH DO YOU KNOW ABOUT
ANIMALS?

I. A celebrated woman once called a certain
bird the “ Avian Rat.” \Y/ho was the woman
and what was the bird?

2. Where are a cow’s ears in relation to her
horns? Are they: above, below, in front,
behind?

3. \‘C/hich way does a horse get up from the
ground: fore legs ﬁrst, hind legs ﬁrst?

4. Which farm animal has the highest tem—
perature : cow, sheep, pig, horse, hen?

5. Wireworms are the larval stage of:
daddy longlegs, a butterﬂy, a click beetle,
a ﬁeld cricket?

6. Is the whale a ﬁsh, a reptile, a mammal?

E. G. B.
Answers on page 2 57, Cal. 2.

219

 

 




 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

 

May, 1939

The Seer of Millthorpe

BY BASIL HARVEY—JAMES.

N my former article on Edward Carpenter,

I let my pen run away with me and found

that I had written quite as much about
Walt Whitman. Now I intend to guide my
pen; at the offset I should like to express my
opinion that Carpenter was much more than
an echo, faint or otherwise, of \Whitman. He
was essentially a many-sided thinker and
covers stretches of literary and philosophic
territory that Whitman never essayed.

While of the various subjects of my sketches
I have seen but four—Ernest Bell, John Gals—
worthy and Sir George Greenwood, and the
subject of the present sketch—it is with
Carpenter alone that I have held personal and
uninterrupted intercourse. For this reason,
coupled with a very real admiration, I have
bestowed on him, as on Shelley and on Mary
Webb, the “ honour ” (if so it be) of a second
article in the columns of THE ANIMALs’
FRIEND.

Now Carpenter’s dicta on animals need
“ digging out ” (a painful expression for me
to have to use 1); some will be found in his
poems under the heading Towards Democracy,

but what I recommend most to animal—lovers,

to read are the series of essays under the title
of Cioi/isation: Its Cause and Care ana’ ot/oer
Essay/s (Allen & Unwin), especially T/oe
Science of t/oe Fatare, Exfoliation, and A Rational
'ana’ Ha/nane Seienoe. It is in the last that
Carpenter proclaims that “ Man has to ﬁnd
and to feel his true relation to other creatures
and to the whole of which he is a part. . . .
Science is, as we all know, the search for
Unity. That is its ideal. . . . But Man cannot
ﬁnd that unity of the Whole until he feels his
unity nit/J the Whole. To found a Science of
one-ness on the murderous warfare and insane
competition of men with each other, and on
the slaughter and vivisection of animals—the
search for unity on the practice of disunity—
is an absurdity, which can only in the long run
reveal itself as such.”

 

Carpenter was not one who compressed
what he believed and advocated into any rigid
formula—an essentially dynamic as opposed

to static thinker, and, in fact, a somewhat rest— .

less spirit. The nature of the articles that I
have written for this paper have lent to

220

quotation with the possible temptation to
“ overquote.” However, it is not my intention
to fall into this trap with Carpenter; I have
but one more quotation to give—those in
search of others can peruse THE ANIMALS’
FRIEND Calendar for this and other years.

The very versatility of Carpenter makes his
autobiography, 1V9 Days ana7 Dreams, as
interesting as his works on matters remote
from his own life. “ I ﬁnd at the age of
seventy (in 1916),” he wrote in his Days and
Dreams, “ that I am getting nearer to that
place in the centre where nothing exists and
yet all is done—and t/oat I suppose is satis-
factory. A very simple round of life contents
me. As long as I can have my friend (or
friends) and my little corner of Nature, and

'my little pastime of constructive work, I

really do not know what to wish for more.
(And surely everyone ought to be able to
Command these.) ” Of the last parenthesis I
am not sure. There are town—imprisoned
people who see little if any of “ Nature ”;
friendless and lonely souls; others who are
“ square pegs in round holes,” having the
ability but not the contact for “ constructive
work.” But in general these words do contain
all that is vita/[y important to human beings,
and more peculiarly to animal-lovers and
workers in the cause of Animal \Welfare and
Protection.

Animals can be included both among “ Our
Friends ” and in our “ little corner Of Nature,”
and to work for the welfare and protection of
animals is to some of us more than a “little
pastime ” of constructive work.

A Real Animals’ Friend

' ECENTLY there passed away in Edmon-
Rton, North London, an old retired
drayman, George Rayment, who for
more than ﬁfty years was a well—known and
honoured resident in this town and was nearly
ninety years of age when his home call came.
Perhaps he was not well versed in the poem
which tells the story of John Gilpin and which
makes his town world—known, but Old George
became loved and respected for the unique

f: ‘h‘- w

“ .—‘ Amﬁ'é—

 

 

 

 




 

- .31. .JiiMééﬂ-‘Sifm—w"a1'

 

 

 

May, 1939

care and love he had of the horses in his
charge.

He was employed by a whiskey ﬁrm in the
City and was required to deliver many heavy
loads, in the days before the advent of the
motor lorry, sometimes at long distances for
an animal to cover. In time it became noticed
by the management of his ﬁrm that the greatest
possible consideration was given by George
to his horses. He knew every water trough
within the various boroughs of London, and
would turn his steed towards the nearest if

he thought the horse needed refreshment.

When loading, upon being requested to ﬁnd
room for one or two more cases, he would
often say: “ I think the old boy has enough
on to-day, Guv’nor. We’ll be back as soon
as we can for the others.”

A slippery and icy surface on the road and
Old George would not start on a journey until
his horses were primely shod, and a visit to
the blacksmith’s would come ﬁrst. He rarely,
if ever, used a whip.

Any signs of ailment or sickness and his
animal received the most careful observation,
care and treatment, even if it entailed extra
hours of duty on the part of Rayment himself.

Sometimes the ﬁrm were annoyed when
Rayment for a valid reason of this kind would
not start on a journey ; but in time they began
to respect him and to accept his word on these
matters as law. They knew he was proud of
his horses and they, too, began to be concerned
for their welfare.

He was in the ﬁrm’s employment well nigh
half a century and became the oldest employee
on their books. Their respect and esteem for
him is illustrated by the fact that some years
ago, when the firm disbanded, George was
given a sum of money as capital for a pension.
Ten years afterwards the senior partner
arranged a costly dinner party for all the old
ﬁrm’s workpeople still living. He said to the
manager of the old days: “ Find Rayment;
he must be there.” Rayment was, and was
honoured by sitting next to the boss.

Old George’s life and example have inspired
many of his acquaintances and friends to better
and kinder living. He was a churchman, and
served his parish in many capacities, including
the offices of warden and sidesman. He was
possessed right to the end of a thorough
humanitarian spirit, and woe betide anyone
who ill—treated any animal, either at home or

1" HE ANIMALS' FRIEND

in the street, if the incident came under Ray—
ment’s ken!

If only we could be sure that every drayman
to—day would leave such a legacy! Such lives
as Rayment’s are not in vain and give en—
couragement to those who are labouring in
the noble cause of animal welfare, whether in
the ranks of peer or peasant.

(Contributed by the Rev. B. A. Whitford,
Vicar of St. Mary’s, Fore Street, Edmonton,
N .18.)

Leonard White—An

Appreciation
THE passing of Mr. Leonard White

will come as a real grief to the many
friends and fellow workers for animals
who had had for years the privilege of his
friendship. Of late the long and weary
illness which had forced his premature retire-
ment from the Civil Service had crippled him,
and kept him from being able to attend many
meetings or committees, but his brain and
pen were always at work in the cause of de—
fenceless animals, and up to the end, contend—
ing again failing eyesight and great weakness,
he was at work on a piece of research enquiry
for which his gifts and knowledge specially
fitted him. A Vegetarian, Anti-Vivisectionist,
opponent of blood sports, as well as a keen
supporter of the efforts to suppress cruelty
in our streets and homes, he was especially
earnest on the subject of Performing and
Captive Animals, which deeply stirred him.
Leonard White was an all—round humani—
tarian, he consistently helped the human,
as well as the canine under—dog, and his
chivalry made him in early life a strong sup-
porter of Women’s Suffrage. He was besides
a playwright of no mean ability, and a member
of the P.E.N. Club. One sketch of his, “The
Perfect Marriage,” has been broadcast in I4
countries and translated into many languages,
and no play of his, grave or gay, but has its
undercurrent of deep thought and meaning.
We may all be thankful for his life of service
to all, the many efforts which are constantly
being made to serve, and save this world
of ours. He will never be happy wherever
his spirit dwells except in helping others.

MARGARET BRADISH.

221

 

 




 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

A new‘ in a cornfield z'r noz‘ nnoonzinon.

 

An nn-lz'nezl next wit/J fonr eggs.

 

May, 1939

Oyster-catchers
BY CATHERINE M. CLARK.

LTHOUGH so many of our resident

waders lay four eggs, one of the

commonest, the oyster-catcher, seldom
does so. Two and three eggs are usual and
even, should there be four, they are not ar-
ranged in the nest in the orthodox manner with
the rounded ends outermost, like those of other
members of the wader family. In short
oyster—catchers are in many respects erratic
birds: they choose a variety of nesting-sites
and line them with divers materials and some-
times omit to line them altogether. One
man told me that in thirty years he only found
one nest on Solway Firth which contained
four eggs. I found a similar one on \Walney
Island several years ago, but another observer
saw upwards of ﬁfty nests in a season, all of
which .held three eggs of uniform shade and
markings.

In England the oyster-catcher seldom nests
far from the sea but in Scotland fresh-water
lochs and riverside banks are chosen. Though
shingle and sand dunes are more generally
favoured in England nesting in cornﬁelds is
not uncommon, and twice I have seen a pair
brooding eggs in a nest on a ridge of young
sprouting potatoes. They had to ﬂy a
considerable distance to and fro to obtain
marine food, but worms and insects no doubt
would supplement any shortage of customary
diet. In any case the oyster—catcher belies
his name for evidence to show him “ catching ”
oysters is lacking; other molluscs and some
crustaceans are his mainstay.

An odd habit of oyster-catchers is to brood a
large round pebble along with their eggs,
as though it had. once been their habit to lay a
full clutch of four and unconsciously they feel
a lack. I have seen this many times, and once
in a cornfield, near to a gullery, I watched a
pair regularly turn a ball of dried earth to‘
gether with their one remaining egg, two eggs
having disappeared mysteriously. In the nest
depicted on the potato ridge a mock egg was
tended and turned as carefully as the genuine
two. Perhaps the small clutches of two,
which are fairly frequently laid, affect in
some measure the present decline in the num-
bers of this handsome wader. The eggs,
being uniform in colouring and markings,
do not excite the interest of acquisitive egg
collectors who prefer varieties or rarer species,

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

May, 1939

but one unnatural enemy of oyster—
catchers is the bird—netter. He
sets his nets on dark winter
nights and of all the many com—
mon, interesting and rare birds
which become enmeshed as they
ﬂy before the rising tide, the
oyster—catcher is a most frequent
victim. Once I saw seventeen
in one net hanging by one wing
or a leg, still alive after several
hours of torture, awaiting the
arrival of the owner of the net to
end their pain and misery. This
seems a singularly barbarous man—
ner of gaining a few extra shillings.
Only 4d. and 6d. a head is
paid for some species such as
golden plover and curlew, oyster—
catche'rs are even less valuable.

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

 

Oyster—catcher nesting on a potato ridge. A woe/é egg ean be
seen behind the genuine ener.

Earth-Born ”Companion

BY HENRY TURNER.

HE departure of Mr. Firbank from Mrs.

Martin’s home for lodgers after such a
. long stay was of “ neighbourhood ”
Importance. “ A nice, quiet gentleman,”
Mrs. Martin had said again and again, and
passed on to points. “Nearly always out,
and when he comes in, late at night, all he
wants is his glass of milk and his two buttered
cream crackers on the table.” In short, the
answer to any landlady’s prayer. And now,
after all these years, a week’s notice, and he
was gone.

Deftly Mrs. Martin whisked away a tear
with the corner of her apron. One gets
attached, she used to say.

“ Awoman, maybe? ” insinuated Mrs. Gill,
herself with knowledge of human instability.

“A woman! Him!” She drew a long
breath, bracing herself for the unusual. “ No,
Mrs. Gill, not a woman. A mouse ! ”

“A mouse! ” cried Mrs. Gill. “ I didn’t
know—” _

“ That was what he said,” said Mrs. Martin
quickly. “I’m sure, wherever he goes, he

can’t be kept any cleaner than I kept him:

But if they will have food in their own

3)

rooms——

“ Ah, that’s what does it,” said Mrs. Gill.
‘f Then they complain.”

A pity, for, for a deliberately lonely man,
Mrs. Martin’s small front had been a good

retreat to him. The habit of years had con—~
ﬁrmed him in affection for it. Returning to
it late at night, he would light the small gasfire,
switch on the electric light, sink into the
rickety but never beaten easy chair, drink his
milk, eat his buttered biscuits, and read or
muse for half an hour before getting into the
convenient bed pushed away in. the far corner.

Just over twelve months ago, with the-
suddenness of all, things electrical, the light
had gone out. That was a serious matter.
Mr. Firbank, turning over his loose change,
found sixpences, half—crowns, ﬂorins, pennies,
and halfpennies, even an odd farthing he
carried “for luck,” but no single shilling.
Knowing that Mrs. Martin and the occupants
of all the other rooms would be long since in
bed, he resigned himself to sitting in the dark.
The world of night about him was tense and
silent. He sat quite still until prese’ntly he
heard a tiny sound. Glancing in the direction
whence it came he was in time to see, in the
dim ﬂicker of light made by the gasﬁre, a
small, dark form ﬂitting across the dark green
tablecloth. It made straight for the plate from
which he had just eaten his buttered biscuits
and began a hurried meal from the crumbs
he had left.

Keeping quite still, he watched a diminutive
creature sitting on its haunches beside his
empty milk glass, busily devouring. Then he

223

~ w ..._._____‘..~. _._.,.,.,.,

.O.M~—£zrmg '

 

 

 




 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

accidentally moved his
hand, and, lightning
quick of hearing, his
small visitor shot for
safety as if from a gun.

“ Mice! ” said Mr.
Firbank aloud.

In the morning he would speak to Mrs.
Martin about it. He went off to bed with the
memory of a small, pretty creature sitting on
its haunches like a squirrel, and in the morning
he said nothing at all to Mrs. Martin.

He came in earlier the next night. The
electric light, having been given a shilling,
snapped on as usual. He ate his biscuits,
drank his milk, then deliberately switched off
the light and sat quite still in the dark.

After a short wait a small, pointed nose
appeared over the edge of the table, and a
small figure ﬂitted across the green tableland
that led to a plate and a glass.

So to the warmth and comfort of a bachelor’s
den was added companionship. The condi—
tions were simple. One had but to remain
quite still in the dark; at the least movement
a timid, hunted creature bolted for safety.
But as he watched his small guest feed Mr.
Firbank knew that the mouse was aware of
him, that, as the experience was repeated, they
understood each other and the rules of the
game.

By daylight he searched for— and found the
hole in the skirting—board by which his small
friend entered and departed. Somewhere the
mouse had a small den, to which it returned
from adventures after food. “ My earth—born
companion ” he called it presently, though in
strict accuracy there was a difference of variety
between the small. creature apostrophised by
the ploughman poet and the raider from the
ﬂoorboards of a lodging—house. In this
vanity there was the excuse that the years that
had given him a waistline and baldness on top
had been singularly arid of companionship
of any sort.

The end came suddenly, after the relation-
ship had lasted nearly a year. First of all, Mrs.
Martin’s other lodgers began to complain of
mice. Charles, the pampered cat, assumed in
a night disproportionate importance. He was
“ borrowed.” He spent whole nights in this
lodger’s room or that. He was praised, blamed.
His prowess and his want of it were discussed.
Generally speaking, he was far too well fed
to heed much the pleasures of the chase. The

 

Ma y, 1939

‘-

mice were having a walk—over. But in a crisis
he was a cat, and more might be happening
than met the eye.

There came a night when Mr. Firbank re-
turned to his room—late, as usual—and as he
opened the door Charles walked out. That
was all, but somehow Mr. Firbank knew.

He refused to eat his biscuits and drink his
milk, and Mrs. Martin, clearing them away in
the morning, wondered. He tried a night or
two when no small, sharp nose appeared over
the tablecloth, no small, dark form flitted, no
tiny guest nibbled at his plate. Then, quite
suddenly, he decided to leave Mrs. lVlartin’s
for ever.

“ And all I can say is,” said Mrs. Martin to
Mrs. Gill in tones gone hard with severity,
“that other people besides him have to put
up with mice.”

“ And live to a good old age! ” accorded
Mrs. Gill as severely.

(Reprinted from the Maize/Jester Guardian
of March 13th last, by kind permission of the
Author and of the Editor of the Mane/Jester
Guardian.)

 

Tbe best laid plans 0’ mice and men
Gang aft a-gley ;
Au’ [ea’e us mug/2t but grief and pain,
For promz'r’d joy.
ROBERT BURNS.

It bad need to bee
A wy/z'e mouse lbaz‘ sbou/d breed in tbe rat’s eare.

JOHN HEYWOOD.

I believe a leaf of grant it no [err iban tbe journey—work
0f ibe rtarr.

And tbe free-toad is a ebef—d’oeuz're for tbe big/Jeri,

And a moure 2's mime/e euougb to siagger rextz‘l/z‘our
0f infide/r.

\‘C‘ALT WHITMAN.

224

 

 

 

 

 




. L‘

. VS"

3”. sign. ~ , . -r ‘-', ”79',”
J. ., £155. 1" 'v‘ , 3’. "i 44’ ' ; 11‘“ I"? in; " "5‘

,4-» tie“!

 

 

 

 

 

May, 1939

Country Cat

 

HE was only seven months old herself,
Sand we were horriﬁed when we found,

without any shadow of doubt, that she
was going to have kittens.

“ She’ll never get over it,” I moaned. “ She
is such a little thing herself that either she or
the kitten is bound to suffer.”

It was always “ the kitten ”—the possibility
of her having more than one somehow never
occurred to us. ‘

Later on she began to show a marked
interest in the airing cupboard—the door of
which we had never been able to close success-
fully; so one day I got the village carpenter
along to repair the lock, and the same day I
put the old dog basket close to the central
heating in our bedroom.

That evening she disappeared, and when,
by the following evening, she had still failed
to put in an appearance, I left the kitchen
window open and a saucer of milk on the floor.

“ She’s bound to come home for her food,”
I said, “even if she never wants to see us
any more.” Funny how touchy one is apt to
get about one’s animals!

This state of affairs went on for eight days.
Each night the kitchen window was left open,
and each morning the milk had disappeared—-
but there was still no sign of the cat.

On the afternoon of the ninth day I went
into the bedroom and noticed a hump under
the counterpane on our bed. I pulled it back——
and there she was with one adorable grey
kitten. I popped them both into the dog

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

basket, and ran down to the kitchen for a
large saucer of milk.

When I came up again the kitten mewed
pitifully, but the cat had once more disappeared.
In half an hour’s time she walked self—con—
sciously into the room with a second grey
ball of fur in her mouth and deposited it
proudly in the dog basket beside its small
companion. This went on at intervals of
half an hour, until five grey bundles lay in
the middle of the dog basket. Then, and
then only, did she climb in herself and gather
her brood round her.

Shortly after that old Mrs. Harris, the
gardener’s wife, called to see me. “ I’ve just
come to tell you, mum,” she said, “ that I’ve
seen that cat of yours wot you’ve lost. I seen
her in the churchyard, a few minutes ago,
slinking about under the hedge beside your

fence.”
=:= :1: :i:

“ And where,” I said to the cat that evening,
as she sat washing the ears of the smallest
kitten, “ did you have your family? ”

“ Well,” she replied rather curtly, “it may
interest you to know that I had all the ﬁnest
airing cupboards in the village put entirely
at my disposal—my own having been locked
against me.”

“ Never mind about that,” I said.
“ Where did you have them? ”

“ In the churchyard, if you really want to
to know. Dog baskets and central heating
are all very well for the town bred—but we
country cats . . .”—and with a shrug she
returned to the ears of the smallest kitten.

I. P.

(Reprinted from the A'Iane/Jesz‘er Evening News, by
kind permission of the Editor.)

T/Je Cat on yonr bearibstone to this do} presages,
B} solemn/y sneezing, the coming of rain.

ARTHUR GUTERMAN.

W/n'le rain depends, t/Je pensive eat gives o’er
Her fro/ios, and pnrsnes ber tail no more.

JONATHAN SWIFT.

W/yen I play wit/2 my! cat, 222/10 knows wbet/yer I do not
make oer more sport t/Jan s/ye makes nee?

MICHEL DE MONTAIGNE.

For in tbe stillness a cat languisbes lend/y.
W. E. HENLEY.

225

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

Ma); 1939

From Onlooker’s Note Book

Yes, I will spend #16 [fee/077g (leg I

le'f/e Rhee/re in ﬂair meet/9 of iqu,

Am] 52'! emery/9 fbe freer, and 5.1mm

Jiffy bread 22/216 bird; 22/60 re lye/we; are there.
\W. H. DAVIES.

Nature Study in the Schools.

In the Seam” of tbe Year, a record of country
life throughout the months, by JAMES J. CASH,
there will be fOund in the chapter dealing with
May days among the birds the following :—

In May, birds are at the height of nesting,
and it is a lifelong pleasure to many people to
keep an eye upon the waysides, woods, and hedges
for their cosy little homes. It is a happy and
innocent pleasure, so long as great care is taken not
to disturb either nest or bird. \Y/e must hope that
nature study in the schools will eventually teach
all children to so love wild creatures that they
would not do them harm. Even in these days of
general enlightenment birds and other creatures
suffer much cruelty. The older we grow the
more convinced we become that a ﬁeld—glass is
inﬁnitely better than a gun. ‘ It is a real pleasure to
watch the movements of either animal, bird or
insect, and to enjoy its beauty in a live and natural
state ; but what pleasure is to be gained by holding
a maimed or lifeless creature in the hand P7 Our
aim should be to cherish and protect wild creatures
and their homes, and to have the satisfaction
of helping to place rare species on a ﬁrm foundation.

Plutarch and Sub-human Kindred.

PLUTARCH’S (eirea 50—120) Liz/er form one
of the world’s most famous literary produc—
tions. Here is a little selection from Life of
Cafe z‘lye Censor, and the translation is Lang—
hornes : i

A good man will take care of his horses and dogs,
not only while they are young, but when old and
past service. Thus the people of Athens, when
they had ﬁnished the temple called Hecatompedon,
set at liberty the beasts of burden that had been
chieﬂy employed in that work, suffering them to
pasture at large, free from further service. It is
said that one of these afterwards came of his own
accord to work, and putting itself at the head of
the labouring cattle, marched before them to the
citadel. This pleased the people, and they made a
decree that it should be kept at the public charge as
long as it lived. The graves of Cimon’s mares,
with which he thrice conquered at the Olympic
games, are still to be seen near his own tomb.
Many have shown particular marks of regard
in burying the dogs which they had cherished
and been fond of. . . . We certainly
ought not to treat living creatures like shoes or
household goods, which when worn out with use,
we throw away ; and were it only to learn benevo-
lence to human kind, we 'should be merciful
to other creatures. For my own part I would not
sell even an old ox that had laboured for me.

Alexander Pope, Died on May 30th, 1744.

ALEXANDER POPE (1688-1744) represents
the culmination of the artiﬁcial school of
poetry, and is unexcelled for precision, terse—
ness, and perfection Of form; “I lisped in
numbers, for the numbers came.” He made
the acquaintance of Swift, I708 ; moved a
good deal among the London wits; made a
fortune from his Iliad, I715 ; and was hence-
forth recognised as the chief poet of his time.
Pope moved to Chiswick, 1716, and on the
death of his father moved to Twickenham,
1718, where, with his grotto and his books,
he resided till his death, the centre‘of a group
of admiring friends and the scorpion of many
enemies.

Frederick, Prince of \W ales, who at one time
occupied Kew House (Kew Gardens) accepted
the present of a dog from Alexander Pope;
inscribed upon the dog’s collar were the
following lines:—

I am My Hzg/mess’r dog at Kew,
Prey! tell we, we, wbase dog meme?

Cotsall Games. ,

Merry England in the days of King Charles I
is described in this manner in Tire Stranger
Prime (the story of Rupert of the Rhine), by
MARGARET IRWIN.

An enormous gaily-dressed noisy crowd
swarmed over the plateau—jDover’s Hill, a long
low plateau, steeply over hung the vale of Eve—
sham, a wide plain obligingly mapped out for a
race—course by Nature in conjunction with Captain
Dover—and down into the plain, and through it
strolled the competitors, leashed greyhounds,
led by their owners, country lads on their sturdy
ponies and farm horses, swaggering in front of their
sweethearts, who had helped plait up their steeds’
tails and manes with ribbons, and hung garlands

of ﬂowers round their necks till they looked as -

gay as Morris dancers that were practising their
steps in rings to the high drone of the bagpipe
players, seated on the ground..

Shakespeare alludes to these games in
Memy l/Vz'eer of Windsor, where Slender asks
Page: “ How does your fallow greyhound,
sir? I heard say he was outrun on Cotsall.”

The Most Diminutive of Birds.

In the ofﬁcial announcement that he is
“ the King of Birds ”—a reference to the old
legend of his mounting highest by perching
on the head of the eagle—OBSERVATOR, who

226

 

 




 

 

May, 1939 THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

 

 

writes so interestingly in the Sunday Observer,
says : “ No lover of the wren will credit him
with low trickeries like that,” and continues :
“ He is a humble-minded bird, and will have
no objection to decorating the lowest of the
coins : he may even make the farthing
popular.”
ONLOOKER.

Nature Notes for May

HE month of May is the busiest time of
Tthe .year for the birds, and almost all

kinds are buSy about their nests. \With
careful observation, you may learn much
about them, and their habits this month; the
nesting'material used, where the nest is placed,
how it is constructed, how the young are fed,
and- the kind of food chosen; note how the
old birds try to lure any enemies away from
the nest. .

Sometimes a robin will choose an old shoe,

.or a disused tin, in which to make a nest,

although a more sensible one will prefer to
place her nest in a bank or a hole in a tree.
\When the young robins leave their nest it is
amazing to watch them trying to swagger
about in imitation of Father Cock Robin, with
a ﬂick of the tail and a bob of the head.

As you pass near a wood, listen fOr the low
music of the Woodlark as it circles high in
the sky. \X’atch the wings of this bird, and
note how they vibrate with a peculiar motion.
You may recognise the bird in ﬂight by the
shortness of the tail, and the rounded appear—
ance of the wings.

Should you come upon a group of furze—
bushes, peer in; maybe you will discover a
linnet’s nest. During your walks try to pick
out the song of the chiff-chaff, which is like
its name, “ chiff, chaff, chiff, chiff, chaff,’ the
clear, liquid warble of the blackcap, the white—
throat’s simple notes, the jingle of the sedge—
warbler, the cry of the peewit, and, after dark,
the “ jar—r—r—r—r ” of the nightjar, which sounds
like matches being shaken in a box.

The migrants due to arrive this month
include the nightjar, swift, marsh warbler,
spotted and pied ﬂycatchers, and the red-
backed shrike. About the middle of the
mOnth bird—song reaches .its highest point,
and then begins to fade in volume. Many
young birds are hatched during the last days
of May. '

227

 

Photo by] 117“)” at N35]. {1). ]. Brooks

Tbe robin ana’ tbe time,
Tbe [aneroek and tbe wren,
Tbe/n tbat berz'er tbeir next
[Vi/l never tbrz'be again

A Naturalist’s Notebook

BY HUDSON READ.

Tbe tree; still deepen z'n tbez’r b/oozn,
Gram greens tbe ineaa’on/ lane’s,
Ana’f/on/em n'z'tb ebeiy morning eezne,
A; (inept by)» fat/f)! bands.
——CLA RE.

I‘ I ‘0 adventure into the country on a May

morning, before the shadows of sleepy

night have folded their grey trailing
robes, is well worth the eHort of early rising.

And, later, breakfast at a wayside cottage in
a winding lane will add a zest to the experience.
Most countryfolk are hospitable to strangers

on a iourney.

At the dawn gate the cuckoo calls. And.

the female may answer her lover with a kind
of clear, bubble—like sigh, as if water was
being poured from some narrow—necked bottle

or jar. Last spring I watched a male cuckoo-

by the Moor Canal, Sinﬁn Moor, Derbyshire,

and heard this bird call “cuckoo ” twenty—~

three times in one minute.

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

Birds in Agriculture:

May, 1939

The Book

(Exfraez‘ea’ from an an‘lele by A. ROEBUC K, adviser in Agriealz’aral Beware/egg, A'lla’laaa’
Agrz'ealzfaral College.)

 

S an adviser on crop pests among

farmers, fruit—growers, etc., in ﬁve Mid—

land counties it frequently falls to my
lot to investigate cases of reputed damage by
birds. As precise records of the beneﬁts
conferred by birds are not easy to obtain,
the following are given in the hope that they
may be of interest.
The Rook.

(a) In 1928 at Market Bosworth (Leics.),
the plants on a ﬁeld of winter oats were
looking very sick, and were rapidly disap—
pearing. The rooks from a near—by rookery
began to congregate on the ﬁeld and soon
seemed to spend all their time on it. \Wire—
worms (Agelez‘er ebrearas) were destroying the
crop. The farmer shot one of the rooks and
found its food to be wireworms. After a few
weeks, during which the birds were very
busy, spring oats were sown and a good crop
practically free from attack resulted.

(b) In 1931 at Oxton (Notts.), a ﬁeld of
wheat was much frequented by rooks. As a
precautionary measure one or two were shot
and put on stakes. The farmer was rather
puzzled because the rooks continued their
visits and the wheat was uninjured and looked
healthy. The ground became covered with
little holes made by the birds, but they were
only now and then against the wheat plants
and these never appeared to be pulled up.
On examining the soil numbers of beetle grubs
were gathered. These were reared and prOved

to be the small dung beetles (Aplmellm flare-
z‘arz’m, and A. iaqaz'aaz‘ar). Although none
were shot it was evident that the rooks were
eating these. A ﬁeld of mixed arable crops
at Bramcote near Nottingham in 1950 was
visited by rooks for the same purpose, and
the same species of Apboelz'm beetles were
present. The farmer had suffered much from
chafer grubs and was afraid these were the
same. When told they were dung beetle grubs
he remembered seeing them when carting out
the manure. We examined the manure in the
yard and found large numbers of the grubs.

(d) In 1932 the plants in a ﬁeld of peas at
Shelford (Notts.) were being destroyed by
some pest. I diagnosed the cause of the
trouble to be leatherjackets (Tlpﬂla pale/elem)
but on examining the ﬁeld failed to ﬁnd many.
Rooks and lapwings settled on the ﬁeld. I
watched these through ﬁeld—glasses for a time.
They seemed very busy, so I went to examine
the ground they had foraged. The ﬁeld was
on a fairly steep hillside. The rows were
drilled parallel with the valley, like contour
lines. The grubs were on the top side of the
plants, but I had been looking on the lower
side. The rooks or lapwings, or both, had
found them. When I returned to my original
site and tried their method I soon found plenty
of leatherjackets. The farmer left the birds
undisturbed and reported that apparently no
more plants were lost and the crop was quite
satisfactory.

228

. her-.. ,_,._2v; - 7'

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

l
l
I

May, 1939

(a) In 1935 there was a bad epidemic of
leatherjackets (Tam/[a pa/udora) in North 'Lin-
colnshire. Three ﬁelds of spring corn on
adjacent farms near Scunthorpe were losing
plants fast. Rooks began to congregate on
them. Their intentions were misunderstood.
The writer noted that they were not eating
the plants and that leatherjackets were abun-
dant. When the latter had disappeared the
visits of the rooks ceased and such plants as
were left grew well.

( f ) In 1955 there was a severe epidemic
of cutworms, caterpillars of the moth Agroz‘z'x
regez‘zm, in Lincolnshire. Many birds had a
very happy time, especially Black Headed Gulls
and lapwings. A ﬁeld of carrots in the Isle of
Axholme was being severely attacked when
rooks began to visit it. Their visits became
regular and prolonged. The farmer noted
that they were making holes where the grubs
were, a short distance from the plants, and
that the grubs were getting noticeably fewer
and the plants made steady progress. Another
ﬁeld of wheat, near Horncastle, was being
attacked by cutworms. After the rooks had
visited the ﬁeld for some time an examination
of the soil at various places in early December
showed the pest to be practically exterminated.

‘“ Bird Notes and News.”

There is a good deal about bird-sanctuaries of one
kind or another in the Spring Number of Bird Nola;
and New; (R.S.P.B.), varying from records of Canada’s
many National Parks, nineteen in all, and the history
of the huge Parc National Albert of the Belgian Congo,
to the report for the year of the Royal Parks Committee
on the birds at Duddingston Loch, and an account of
the Viscount Grey bird-reserve which ﬁtly graces
the watermeads of Winchester College. The last-
named description forms part of an interesting paper
on the Birds of Winchester, 1932-38, which gained
the highest award in the R.S.P.B. Public School Com-
petition, 1958. It is a well-thought—out and pleasantly—
written paper by one of our on-coming ornithologists,
and might well be followed by similar records from
other schools. Among individual birds which are
subiects of special articles are not only Mr. Hyde-
Parker’s account of the “ feathered midget,” the gold-
crest, Captain Craufurd’s study of Rook Psychology,
and “ Peter the Swallow ” on board ship, but Dr.
Renshaw’s story of the extinct pigeon Hollandais
of the Mauritius and its successor, still to be met with
in Madagascar and not wholly unknown even at the
Zoo. Particulars are given.of an Essay Competition
which is being arranged by the Royal Society for the
Protection of Birds in the hope of assisting to determine
the effect upon bird life during recent years of the
extensive changes in the countryside which, according
to one writer, are greater than those recorded in any
country within so short a period.

 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

Some Startling F acts

Hen Batteries: Cruelty which the Pur-
chaser of Eggs can Suppress. Published
by The Animal Defence and Anti—
V ivisection Society, 15, St. James’s Place,
London, S.\W.I. 2d.

0 you eat eggs? If you do you should
get a copy of this pamphlet in which
the utterly unnatural and cruel conditions
to which hens are subjected in the laying battery
are lucidly described by the writer and the
results of the system are critically examined.
Attention was called to the evils and cruelty
of this system in THE ANIMALs’ FRIEND of
February, 1936, and to the fact that condemna—
tion of its cruelty was considered by “ Chanti-
cleer,” of the News-Cbmm’r/e, to be “ belied by
the excellent health of the birds.” Rather
more than a year later we were able to point
out that “ Chanticleer ” appeared, as the result
of further experience of the system, to be in
the process of revising his opinions somewhat
drastically and that, in referring to the increase
of poultry disease and mortality and to the
appearance of a new disease signiﬁcantly known
as “ fowl paralysis,” he remarked:
In the old days, before poultry keeping became
a specialised industry, hens were farmyard hens.
And if they didn’t lay so many eggs they didn’t,
on the other hand, get so many diseases. Fowl
paralysis, for instance, was unknown.

In “ Hen Batteries ” the uninstructed reader
will read with amazement the description of
these contraptions, which are of several types.
A common form is one in which a unit con—
sists of a block of eight cages, back to back,
four cages in a row, arranged in three tiers to
take 24 birds. Each block measures 5 feet
long and 4 feet 4 inches wide, and. in this space
eight hens are caged. The usual size of cage
for an adult bird is I 8 inches wide by 14 inches
long and 18 inches high. There are other
cages made a few inches longer so that each
cage will keep two birds, and in some instances
two birds are kept together in an ordinary
I 8 inch by 15 inch cage. All cages have a wire
netting ﬂoor to allow the birds’ droppings to
pass through, and the ﬂoor slopes to allow
the egg to roll away for collecting. There are
no nests, the hens never reach the ground and
never go outdoors. On many battery plants
artiﬁcial lighting is provided to give an
approximate “ working day ” of I4 hours.

Batteries can be ﬁtted in anywhere—no need

229

_. ‘ ‘,,,._.,._ ..>_--H._.-._.._-mm_.~.._._._¢__. ..,...._, -.-— .
M. . v. , . A _ ”fr—a»

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

 

Photo by l

for plenty of land nowadays for the hens ; this
can be dispensed with. Actual instances given,
among others, are of a converted shop that
houses 1,100 birds ; of a shed with ﬂoor space
100 feet by 20 feet that houses 1,000 birds and
a room in a disused cotton mill, 75 feet by
45 feet, in which 1,044 birds are caged. The
writer compares the fate of the farmyard hen,
with all her many interests, scratching here
and pecking there, her sociable life with other
farm animals and her own kind, clucking to
her chicks, with that of the battery hen, in
constant close conﬁnement, perched on a few
inches of sloping floor space made of wire
netting and closed in by metal bars—in fact, a
life of utter boredom—a boredom so great
that a poultry journal complains bitterly that
Mr. Lee has experienced the same trouble with
pullets as Mr. Swepstone. Certain pullets take a
malicious pleasure in dropping them on the floor

to see them bounce.
The reference is to compressed food pellets

and malicious is certainly a curious word to
use in describing the hen’s intelligent attempt
to mitigate her boredom.

Kept under these conditions it is not. sur—
prising to learn that the birds, not being able
to peck on soil, have a tendency to develop
overgrown beaks and that lack of exercise
causes overgrown toes and nails so that a hen
on being taken out of her cage may ﬂop about
and be quite unable to use her legs. After
two years of this existence the unfortunate bird
is fattened up for eating and thus produces
its last bit of proﬁt for its owner. Neither is

Farmyard Hens—Wailing z‘ljez'r rum.

ll/Ia}. 1939

it surprising that poultry disease
should be on the increase,
that many of the eggs laid are
unﬁt for human consumption
and that battery farmers are
up against the inferior quality
of the eggs produced.

Another aspect of this ques-
tion is touched upon towards
the end of the pamphlet,
where the writer refers to
the view expressed by medical
authority in the person of
Mr. . E. R. McDonagh,
F.R.C.S., that the intensive
egg—laying to which hens are
being subjected to-day is the
cause of the poisonous effects
produced in many people by
eggs. “Birds,” he says, in
TlJe Nature of Disease journal,
“ normally lays eggs only once
a year, and the toxic effects produced by eggs
to—day are doubtless caused by the unnatural
protein compounds built up in them as a result
of the artiﬁcial conditions under which the
birds are made to live.”

We commend this pamphlet to the serious
consideration of our readers and heartily
endorse the suggestion with which the writer
closes : “ All readers of this pamphlet should
investigate the source of the eggs they eat,
aurl refuse all balmy eggs.”

U. H. Stone:

R. H. S.

A Deer Rescues Fawn

BY E. E. WATSON.

OME time ago, while ﬁshing in Indian

Creek, in Missouri, there came a series of

hard rains, almost cloudbursts. \V e were
camped on high ground, so it did not wash
us away. The water in the usually small
stream rose very fast. Between downpours
I went to the creek to see if a small island was
yet ﬂooded. This little island was about the
middle of the stream, the latter now being a
deep, raging torrent.

During some other ﬂood a large log, with
its branches, had lodged against a tree, some
three feet above the rocky island. I noted
that the water was now almost up to the top
of this log. But what was so surprising to

250

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

May, 1939

me was that a large doe was standing on the
solid island with her hind feet, while her front
feet were on the log. What was still more
surprising, she had managed in some manner
to get her little fawn up on the log, and was
steadying it with her head. The baby did
not appear to be more than two or three days
old, for it was very wobbly. I felt pity for
both animals as I knew that the water would
go at least two feet higher before it stopped
rising.

The current was not so wide nor so swift
on the other side of the island, but I could
see no way to save even the fawn, though I
felt the doe would be able to swim out, were
it not for her baby.

None of us could have made it half way to
the submerged island from our side. The
others came down to me at my call. \We could
watch but we could not help. That mother
deer had not given up—far from it.

The island and the tree on it had formed a
sort of eddy so that the current was far less
swift there. When it evidently became ap—
parent to the mother that the water would
continue to rise, especially when a new down—
pour started, she deliberately pushed the fawn
off the logand, before it could sink or ﬂoat
down stream, secured a firm hold on the loose
skin along its back with her teeth and struck
out, swimming and holding the fawn in such
position that its head was above water, for
the opposite shore.

And she made it, too. She carried the baby
clear up to the rocky shore and even helped
it along to the timber, for it was, seemingly,
too wobbly to walk. T/mz‘ was intelligence
plus mother love, and we were thrilled at the
sight!

(From OM” Dumb Animals, Dec., 1938.)

Goats that Play Games

BY JAMES REECE.

ON the prairies of western Texas there

are thousands of pure white young goats.

We had been told by ranchers that the
kids really played games, very similar to those
of children, and after watching them we found
it to be true.

One game was a sort of “ follow the leader,”
in which they balanced on rocks or hummocks,
and hopped from one to another. Even down
a cliff-side—leaps that would surely have killed
any child, big or little, that tried them. Finally,
all would return, that is, all in that particular

231

-_Hv-m»-w~.-~a«.”w~w—-—-—.¢—, yaw-.4) -
V‘ ,_ _, ,. ,H, “I“; V _..V_,-.7ﬁHﬁ—Wv , - .—. 7‘ 7 ‘7

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

ﬂock of maybe 200 or so, to the starting point,
and a new leader having been chosen, the
performance would begin all over again.
Sometimes two or more ﬂocks would join
together, and what a wild time they had!

But the funniest part was when a big auto—
mobile was parked near a ﬂock of them and
the passengers went into the woods. In less
than five minutes the kids were sliding down
its fenders, then “ following the leader ” again
over the hood, under the car, then over its
top, all, seemingly, with but little effort. The
driver had carelessly left a door open, and
when he got back to the car several kids were
asleep in the seats. Others that had become
tired were peacefully resting on the top of
the car. The remainder were playing “ ring—
around—rosy,” or a similar game, circling the
car in opposite directions. Yes, these western
Texas kids do originate games and play them
gleefully.

(From Our Dumb Aﬁiﬂzzzlr, March, 1919.)

Greece.

R. WhMILLER writes from Athens :

“ The S.P.C.A., which has just held

its annual meeting, has increased its
numbers to 606, of whom, however, 116 are
non-Greeks. It has also 20 representatives
and seven branches in the provinces. The
society has made arrangements for publishing,
with the consent of the author and publisher in
England, a Greek translation. of Thora Stowel’s
Baa/é 0f Am'mal Life, the expense of which
will be covered by a promised gift of ,{:51
from Mr. Vontsinas. A talk for children
over the radio has been submitted to the
Ministry of Press, and presentations are being
made for the third show of horses and donkeys
on May 28th., an anonymous English lady has,
given j€50 for prizes on this occasion, and one
of the judges will be Mr. Carlisle, the represen-
tative in Greece of the Peoples’ Dispensaries
for the Sick Animals of the Poor, who has
been working in Athens and the villages of
Attica for several months with excellent
results. The S.P.C.A. has presented another
drinking-trough to the Piraeus——-the third in
Greece. Its periodical, the Greek Amma/J’
Friend, which has suspended publication for
several months, will be republished shortly.
Meanwhile numerous copies of your magazine
are regularly distributed to English governesses
as propaganda whereby children can be
simultaneously taught English and love of
animals.”

 

 

 

 




 

 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

Boorabee, the Koala Bear

BY HELEN JONES.

 

 

 

 

 

Koala Bear.

South Wales, found Boorabee, an Aus—
tralian native bear, perched on a six—inch
nail driven into a tent peg, holding the knotted
end of a skipping rope while monkeys did
their act. Investigation proved that Boorabee
was not happy and the police took possession
of her. After years in a circus it would have
been cruelty to return her to the native bush,
so she was sent to Koala Park, near Sydney,
which is an enclosed sanctuary for Koala bears.
There she lived for a number of years looking
after her babies with exemplary care. It was
not until she was old enough to be a grand-
mother that she gave trouble and became
known as Koala Park’s most notorious
kidnapper. Age did not run to schedule with
Boorabee, for instead of settling down to
sedate old age, mother love remained un-
dimmed in her. With no babies of her own
she often borrowed someone else’s baby-bear
to play with, for Koalas will share in the
nursing of babies. Unfortunately Boorabee

POLICE, visiting a touring circus in New

May, 1939

refused to' give up the borrowed baby when
claimed by its rightful mother. Park-keepers
were required to deal with the situation, and
wherever they were in the park they always
knew when Boorabee was in trouble, for she
screeched in a high—pitched imitation of the
monkeys she had watched so often in the
circus. Stern authority having restored the
baby to its rightful owner, Boorabee was
marched off to the isolation hospital until she
showed signs of penitence. ,

This happened many times until one day
happiness came to Boorabee. An orphan baby
bear was brought to Koala Park whose mother
had been killed in an accident. The baby was
handed over to Boorabee, who immediately
became a most devoted foster—mother. Blink-
ing in the sunshine high up in the fork of a
gum tree, Boorabee hummed contentedly to
herself and baby in the way of Koalas when
happy, in the same way that cats purr in front
of the ﬁre. As her baby grew older Boorabee
showed him how to walk along tree branches
without falling, keeping her own strong arm
ready to catch him should he slip. Alas for
Boorabee, her adopted son grew up, and one
day he thought he saw greener gum tips on
taller trees further away, and with base ingrati-
tude he left his foster-mother. It is a way
they have in Koaladom.

For a time Boorabee seemed to settle down
to peaceful old age, but one day the keepers
heard the familiar monkey screech. Boorabee
had stolen another baby! This meant more
isolation for Boorabee until another orphan
baby was brought to Koala Park and handed
oVer to Boorabee. At ﬁrst all went well, but
Boorabee was now seventeen years old, having
lived three years beyond the native bear’s
allotted span of fourteen years, and the new
baby’s little claws were so sharp that they
pulled out tufts of fur from Boorabee’s neck.
No longer could Boorabee climb swiftly to the
topmost branch of a gum tree or exact obedi—
ence from her wayward charge. Reluctantly
the keepers took the orphan bear away from
Boorabee and handed it over to the care of a
younger foster-mother. Boorabee suffered
this without protest, but next day she was
found blinking sorrowfully at the world from
a corner of the isolation hospital ward where
she had so often been sent in disgrace. The
choicest gum tips failed to rouse her interest,
and when the next Paciﬁc gale lashed the tree
tops, Boorabee became one “ with yesterday’s
seven thousand years.”

232

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

May, 1939

7 .. _ -g-_ 7 , . . .. . .7 _ >m2w- 7...,“www- mm-WMM:._W -.

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

The National Council for Animals’ Welfare

Hon. Organirz'ng Seerez‘nry: J. L. CATHER.

HE National Organiser has now com—

pleted her winter work with the formation

of a new branch at Grimsby.. The
Inaugural Meeting was held .in the Town Hall
on April 4th. The Mayor of Grimsby, Alder-
man H. Weldrick, J.P., presided. The
following local organisations sent representa—
tives: The Education Committee, National
Association of Head Teachers, National Union
of Teachers, Boy Scouts’ Association, Girl
Guides’ Association, Toc H., R.S.P.C.A.,
B.U.A.V._, Free Church Council, Baptist
Church, Adult School Union, Women’s Co—
operative Guild, Presbyterian Fellowship,
Rotary Club, Inner Wheel and Townswomen’s
Guild. Miss Barrs gave an address on the
work and ideals of the National Council and
the aims of the WEEK. The Duchess of Port—
land, Lord Brownlow (Lord—Lieutenant of
Lincolnshire), Mr. George Ticker (High
Sheriff of Lincolnshire), Sir Walter and Lady
Womersley, and Colonel Kyme Cordeaux
have consented to be Patrons for the Grimsby
Week. Miss Ida Rosenberg was elected Hon.
Secretary, and the Vice—Presidents were leaders
of local activities, educational, religious and
social. Amongst these are the Director of
Education, the Heads of Secondary Schools,
and Presidents of Teachers’ organisations, the
Clergy and Ministers of all denominations,
the Chairman of the local branch R.S.P.C.A.,
the President of Toc H., and the Divisional
Commissioners of the Scouts and Guides.
The Editors of the Grimsby Newr and Evening
Telegrapl.) have given splendid publicity and
support each week both for Grimsby and
Cleethorpes. During her visit Miss Barrs
gave a short talk to the teachers of Holmhill
Infants’ School.

Animals’ Friend Calendar—1940.

We would remind our readers and friends
that quotations are needed for the 1940
Animals’ Friend Calendar: please send yours
in now. Next year is Leap Year so we have
366 to collect. The Calendar must be in the
hands of the printers before the end of July
and much time and work has to be expended
in producing it. If you have mislaid your
form please write to the National Organiser for
another or send in your IS. fee for publication

and she will be glad to ﬁnd you a suitable
quotation.

The Calendars continue to be greatly
appreciated as the extracts taken from two
only of the many letters of commendation

received testify.

I am delighted with the beautiful calendar I
have received and they are so reasonable and
were so well packed. I think these calendars are
a splendid advertisement for the Animal Welfare
cause and so intensely interesting—a delight to
all animal lovers.

Will you allow me to congratulate yourself and
all concerned in this very beautiful and artistic
calendar? That its circulation amongst animal
lovers may greatly help to further the cause which
is so near to our hearts is my fervent hope and
prayer.

Will you, too, help the cause in general and
the National Council in particular by sending
in your quotation and ordering your Calendars

for I 940 P

 

Copyright Photo] [Norman T. Hunt

Charlie Pln'llz'pr an unemployed well sinker of “ Lambo,”
Fraddarn, Hay/e, Cornwall, who lea: just been awarded a
.rpeez’al R.S.P.C.A. medal for In; beroz'rrn z'n rerenz'ng dog:

from dis—med nn'ne .t/Jaftr. He [24; recently made [22's

39:}; rescue and i3 63 year: old.

233

 

 

 




THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

May, 1939

The National Society for the Abolition of Cruel Sports

Sanitary: BERTRAM LLOYD, 56, Bloomsbury Street, London, W.C.I.

A tConversazione on May 17th.

ILL friends who would care to attend

K x ; kindly book the evening of Wednesday,

May 17th for a Conversazione? This

has been arranged for 7.45 pm. at the Pioneer

Club, 12, Cavendish Place, Cavendish Square,

W.I (near Oxford Circus tube station). Re—

freshments will be provided and it is hoped

that those interested in the Society’s work
will avail themselves of this invitation.

Manchester Branch Activities.

The following encouraging report has been
received from the Hon. Secretary of our new
Manchester Branch, Miss E. Harris, 128,
Downham Crescent, Prestwich, Manchester :—

“ The Branch started its work in February
with a small membership of keen humanitarians.
After barely three months it can boast of close
on thirty members, which is encouraging, since
the ground covered in this short time is but
small.

“ It was arranged at the beginning to hold
monthly meetings with a view to increasing
the membership until later in the year when
it is hoped to make a wide public appeal.
These meetings, carried out mainly on in—
structive and. educational lines, have been very
successful. Papers on the various forms of
cruel sports have been given by the Secretary,
followed by valuable discussion. Most mem—
bers agree that blood—sports are allowed to
ﬂourish by reason of the ignorance of the
general public on such matters. \With this
idea in mind it is planned to make oppor-
tunities for addressing groups of people
throughout the city.

“ One of the aims of the Manchester Branch
is to inﬂuence the young against the immorality
of blood-sports, and the work has started with
talks to children at one of the public libraries,
by the Chairman, Mr. W. P. Telfer, and Miss
Harris. For this purpose the Society’s Junior
Series leaﬂets are proving particularly helpful.

“ Thanks are due to The [Mam/Jester Guardian
which on February 28th gave an excellent
notice of the new Branch, resulting in a num—
ber of enquiries and some members. Miss K.
Gray, the Treasurer, is responsible for intro—
ducing several valuable members, and it may
be said that the keenness displayed by the

whole group is likely to make of the Man—
chester Branch a real power in the campaign
against cruel sports.”

How the Fox Enjoys it.

\‘Ve have innumerable instances ﬂled here
which seem to show that the fox does 7202‘
enjoy being hunted. For example, during the
Tenby Hunt \Week in January last a fox found
by the South Pembrokeshire Hounds was
“ run into the sea. The hounds were called
off and the fox was given a fresh start, but
went to sea once again and was killed.”

Again, 1796 Taabrz'dge [Va/[5 Adverfiyer
(February 2nd, 1939) prints a number of
letters of protest from residents of Rusthall
against a kill in the village street. This ex—
hausted fox tried to jump a garden gate for
refuge, but fell back and was caught by the
hounds. The Master and the hunt, it is
worthy of note, did not arrive until much later.
This scene, witnessed by residents at windows
and children at play, roused much indignation,
of which the following extract from a letter
to the above journal is a typical expression :—

. . When one can see a fox’s inside all
over the road, and its blood everywhere, one can
only call it devilish, inhuman and mad. Yet
this was the case last Saturday. This is called
sport, yet if a man was found hurting a dog he
would be liable to six months.

On the other hand, there is never any doubt
as to the enjoyment of the fax—barriers in their
unpleasant trade. Thus a recent report of the
Blackmore Vale Hunt in 1796 Time; (January
19th, 1939) ends with the following sentence :
“ Hounds pushed their fox back to Henstridge
and killed after ﬂfty minutes of capital fun ” ( 1)

Why Farmers like Hunting.
The following extract (Timer
Correspondent, 24/2/59) needs no

from us :——~

One great enemy of fox-hunting was never
converted until he discovered that the Master
had unostentatiously secured for his sister a place
in an orthopaedic hospital, and scores of similar
cases could be quoted. It takes many years to
build up goodwill on that basis.

The ideal is that the farmer should for the
moment: turn a blind eye to the hoofprints or the
gaps, merely saying to himself: “ When I see the
Master at the races in March I won’t half tell him
about my seeds.” By March he has forgotten the
incident and there are no hoofprints left to remind
him.

Hunting
comment

 

 

234

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

May, 1939

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

The United Humanitarian League

Hen. Seerez‘my: GRACE HAWKINS, 4, Worsley Road, Hampstead, NW 3.

HE Third Annual Meeting of the League

was held on Saturday, 11th March, at
Friends” House, Euston- Road, N.W.I.
Following the presentation and adoption of
the Annual Report and Balance Sheet, the
usual Election of Officers took place. In
accordance with the rules of the movement, no
President or Chairman may be elected to the
office for two years in succession. (This
exceptional rule, though, naturally, disadvan—
tageous in some respects, has met with
considerable approval.) Richard \X/hitwell,
from the list of vice-presidents, was elected
President for the ensuing year; Lionel ]. Dole,
Chairman; Stella N. Lief,-D.P., N.D., Hon.
Treasurer. Grace Hawkins was re-elected
' Hon. Secretary, and Regd. W. Pettinger,
A.L.A.A., A.T.I.I., F.R.Econ.S., and Doris
Kirby, F .F .C.S., were re—elected joint Auditors.

After conclusion of the Business Meeting,
an open Meeting was held. Addresses were
given by Richard Whitwell (newly—elected
President), Rev. N. E. Egerton Swann, B.A.
(Vice—President and member of the Council),
and Miss Evangeline B. Moore (Hon. Secre—
tary, the World League for Protection of
Animals, Australian Branch).

RICHARD WHITWELL, after expressing appre—
ciation of his election as President for the
year, intimated that he was glad the League
is so central inits principles that it can stretch
out in all directions. The spirit of the move—
ment is a great compassion. It was its com-
prehensiveness that ﬁrst appealed to him.
One field of service, he said, borders close
upon another, and that upon another—for all
are one in a common purpose, rounded by
kindness and truth and good.

Our witness against .cruelty in all its forms
demands of us personal abstention from ﬂesh
foods. How much greater then is our witness
against cruelty in other ways, such as, he
instanced, Vivisection, in which man is
building up a terrible nemesis against himself
through violating Nature. Nature is alive
and sensitive, and conscious in its every part—
she registers every spoliation and violation——
and man does these things at his peril. “ Child—
ren of Light, as ye go forth into the world,

seek to render noble service to all that lives.”
Eager and visionary our eyes, as we press
forward in our service, looking toward that
Day—the prophet’s vision glowing before——
when “ They shall not hurt nor destroy in all
My holy mountain ; for the earth shall be
full of the knowledge of the Lord as the waters
cover the sea.”

THE REV. N. E. EGERTON SWANN, B.A.,
began by saying: “ We are living in a time

. of exceptionally hideous savagery.” He went

on to explain how he, himself, as a Christian
minister, approached humanitarianism. If we
were living by the faith of the Son of God,
who loved us and gave Himself for us, we
must needs be filled with love. Love was an
indivisible whole. It must needs ﬂow over
and out to every creature capable of pleasure
and pain.

It was necessary, he urged, to rally and
unite all the forces of humanitarianism. Re—
turning to the point of the indivisibility of
love, he appealed to those who love only
animals to be equally enthusiastic for inter-
national peace, and for the removal of all
social, and particularly economic, injustices or
oppressions in our midst; and, in the other
direction, to peace-workers and social-reform~
ers to extendtheir care equally to the animals.
He concluded by quoting Coleridge’s lines on
prayer and love for “ all things both great
and small.”

EVANGELINE B. MOORE stated that it was
the League’s spirit of all—inclusiveness which
won to it the Australian organisation which
she represented, and they were proud and
pleased to be united with the movement as a
constituent organisation.

She gave an interesting account of humane
activities carried on in Australia, which limited
space will not allow to be entered into here.

Recent publications issued by the League
are Francis of Arrirz': Apostle of Humaﬂerr,
by Charles A. \Vestacott (author of Onloe/éer’r
Note Book in THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND), Savagerz'er
0f ‘ Cz'w'lz'red ’ Life, a leaﬂet of extractions from
Henry S. Salt’s Seaemj/ Year; Among Swagger
and Think, Speak, Live Peaee, a leaﬂet with a
vital appeal.

235

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

May, I 939

The League for the Prohibition of Cruel Sports

Secrefmy: J. CLIFFORD SHARP, 7, Victoria Street, Westminster, S.W.I.

West Lancashire Anti-Coursing Crusade
Moves On.

HE Prohibition of Coursing Committee
T is rapidly growing under its energetic

hon. secretary, Miss R. B. Johnston.
The Movement numbers some 2,000 members
already and Branches have recently been
formed at Birkenhead (hon. secretary Miss
E. 1V1. Lundie, 21. St. Andrew’s Road,
Birkenhead), Cheshire (hon. secretary Mrs.
Ashforth, Rowton Grange, Christleton), North
\Wales (hon. secretary Miss Ray Johnston,
Bryn Teg, Dolywern, Chirk), \Wallasey (hon.
secretary Miss M. J. Eileen Bell, 17, Empress
Road, Wallasey), and Wirral (hon. secretary
Miss B. Hart, 9, Lingdale Road, W’est Kirby).
Other Branches at Crosby and W’aterloo and
\Warrington are in the course of formation.

Undoubtedly public opinion is ripe for, the
abolition of coursing and once the facts
are put before the people they soon respond
in demanding this humane measure. All
interested readers are urged to get in touch
with Miss .R. B. Johnston, 2, Hamilton Road,
W’allasey or any of the above ladies.

The suggestion that the \Waterloo Cup
should be included within the scope of the
Parliamentary bill to prohibit rabbit coursing
and carted stagl'iu'nting was made by Mr. G. L.
Reakes at the recent annual general meeting
of the R.S.P.C.A. (Liverpool Branch). Mr.
\Y/inchester (the secretary) replied that while
he thought that everyone would agree with
what Mr. Reakes said, whether they approved
or not it was simply a question of tactics.
Such a bill as that under discussion was
introduced fourteen years ago, and it seemed
almost impossible to get any further with it.

Parliamentary Action.

It is quite true that legislative action has
been notoriously slow concerning the pro—
hibition of cruel sports. Again, and again,
we have been humiliated when facilities
have been refused for further readings of the
two bills before Parliament. Doubtless the
international situation. has been largely respon—
sible for the shelving of these measures,
at the same time we should point out that

certain other private member’s bills have
become law.

Let us face the facts. The vast majority
of the people are opposed to cruel sports
but many of our M.Ps and their friends
support these practices. \‘C’e shall shortly be
preparing means to bring these facts to the
personal attention of M.Ps, and to pave the
way for special and deﬁnite action concerning
the bills for the prohibition of certain cruel
sports. Too long have the wishes of the
majority been ignored; the time has now
arrived for a vigorous crusade in the House
for we shall never see the legal prohibition
of cruel sports if we wait for pressure of state
business to relax.

Children’s Essay Competition.

Our Children’s Essay Competition has
proved so successful that the demand for
literature has greatly exceeded the supply
and we have had to postpone the closing date
to June 30th. It is interesting to note that the
great majority of the entries come from
hunting districts, in one case from a public
school where meets are regularly held.

Particulars of the Competition can be ob—
tained from the Secretary of the League.

The New Forest Hunting.

The Secretary has recently visited the New
Forest district in connection with this matter,
and discovered considerable feeling against
the hunting, particularly of the fallow buck.

Arrangements are in hand for the holding
of shop campaigns in the district and further
particulars will appear in the next issue of
THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND.

Hunting and Patriotism.

Air—Commodore Charlton (Chairman of the
League) has recently written an article which
has appeared in many newspapers under the
above heading, in which he urges the Govern—
ment, especially in view of the grave inter—
national situation, to take similar steps to
those recently taken by the German Govern—
ment in killing foxes which infest the country—
side destroying food required for human
consumption.

236

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

May, 1939

THE AN IMALS’ FRIEND

Pit Ponies’ Protection Society

H022. Semez‘my: D. JEFFREY WILLIAMS, 82, Boundary Road, London, N.W.8.

Our Petition.

HE last date on which to return com-
pleted forms of our petition to the
Minister for Mines is June 30th, 19 39.
A large number of signatures have already
been obtained, but we shall require a still
larger number in order to send in an impressive
petition this year. It may be that the times
are not propitious, and that the present critical
period may last for some time. \We can only
do our best, however, and not miss any
opportunity to help on our w0rk for the
eventual release of the horses and ponies in
the mines.

Deep and Hot Mines.

It is to be hoped that horses and ponies
will not be employed in some of the deep
mines of the future. An alarming picture of
the conditions in such mines is given in the
Report of the Royal Commission on Safety
in Mines. In certain mines coal is already
being worked at or about a depth of 4,000
feet, which was considered by a Royal Com-
mission in 1905 as a limit to the depth of
mining operations in this country. The
Report points out that “there tends to be
increasing difficulty in combating effectively
by ventilation high natural temperatures
associated with high relative humidities—
more particularly in cases where the workings
are far from the shaft and the movement of
air in the working faces tends to be slow.”

The Mine Workers’ Federation suggested
in evidence to the Royal Commission that
work at a greater depth than 4,000 feet should
be prohibited, but the Commission thought it
better that legislation should regulate the
conditions, not the depth, “ especially as the
application to this country of such measures
as air-conditioning as practised in South
Africa, or of air-ionization or ozonization as
suggested by Dr. R. V. Wheeler, might
entirely upset any limit that could be proposed
on the basis of existing methods of ventilation.”

Our sympathies are strongly with the View
of the Mine Workers’ Federation. \er do
not think it is right to expect either men or
horses to be employed at greater depths than

4,000 feet, or at wet—bulb temperatures of over
800 F. Even this temperature will prove to
be very uncomfortable, if not unhealthy, for
both men and animals in the depths of the
mines. But as the shallower seams become
worked out, deeper and deeper seams will be
worked unless a limit is placed upon the depth
as is suggested by the Mine Workers’
Federation.

We confess to something of a shock when
reading a passage like the following in the
Report of the Royal Commission :—

By taking the average of many tests on a number
of acclimatised observers, it has been possible to
construct scales from which the effective tempera—
ture corresponding to any combination of the
three variables can be read off; the scales vary,
however, according to the amount of clothing
worn by the observers, and while there is already
a scale available for persons stripped to the waist,
there is not at present one for practically naked
persons, which would be necessary in order to
give a true comparison with conditions in hot
mines. We regret that the information available
on this subject at present appears to be insufficient
for us to reach any definite conclusion in regard to it.

\We regret something very different. We
regret that it is contemplated that men and
animals shall be obliged to work in such con.-
ditions. It may be found perhaps that it will
be impossible to work horses and ponies in.
such conditions, and all the plausible argu—
ments now put forward for the continued use
of horses and ponies in mines may go by the
board. But one never knows where modern
experiments and tests are concerned. One
must not be too certain that science may not
yet be used to enable horses and ponies to
work in what someone once called the
“ infernos of deep and hot mines.”

D. J. w.

HOW’ MUCH DO YOU KNOW ABOUT ANIMALS?
Answers to questions on p. 219

. Miss Ormerod; the house-sparrow.

. Below and slightly in front.

. Fore legs first.

. A hen, average I070 F.

. Click beetle.

. A mammal. She suckles her young.

GMAri—I

237

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

May, 1939’

The Scottish Society for the Prevention of Vivisection

H0”. Secretary: MISS N. IVORY (to whom all communications should be addressed).

Animals’ Welfare Week (1939)

was celebrated in Scotland from 26th March
to Ist April under the auspices of The Scottish
Society for the Prevention of Vivisection,
The Scottish Tailwaggers’ Club and the Coun—
cil of Justice to Animals and Humane Slaughter
Association (Scotland).

The arrangements were under the direction
of Miss N. Ivory (Hon. Correspondent to the
National Council for Animals’ Welfare in

Scotland).
The popularity of this special Week to

further the Cause of animal protection in—
creases year by year and the 19 39 celebrations
were most successful, thanks to the eﬁorts
of the promoters who included Miss Pownoll
Wright, M.A., in St. Andrews and in the
Northern Scottish Counties, Miss N. Ivory,
Mrs. Carlyle-Deas and Mr. Paul J. Pease in
Edinburgh, Mr. Harvey Metcalfe in Glasgow

and Miss M. Kerr in Ayrshire for The Scottish
7 Society for the Prevention of Vivisection,
Mr. George Purves for the Council of Justice
to Animals.

A letter from Miss Ivory was circulated
throughout the Press with an appeal to the
Churches, Educational Authorities, Teachers,
etc., to join in making the celebrations
successful.

The VALUABLE CO—OPERATION OF
EDUCATIONAL AUTHORITIES enabled
many school to be reached, and thousands
of leaﬂets and attractive educative posters
were distributed. We are specially indebted
to the Educational Journal for enabling us to
reach the Education Authorities.

Two Large Public Meetings

under the auspices of The Scottish Society for
the Prevention of Vivisection were held in
Edinburgh and Glasgow respectively during
the “ Week.” Chief speakers at these Meet—
ings were Leonora, Countess of Tankerville
(Chairman), Mr. James C. Thomson, Principal,
Edinburgh School of Natural Therapeutics,
Mrs. More—Nisbett of Cairnhill, in Edinburgh,
Dr. John \Winning, L.R.C.P., Edin., L.R.C.S.,
Edin., L.R.F.P. & S. Glasgow, Dr. Martha

Clelland, M.B., Ch.B., B.Sc., Naturopath, the:
Rev. J. Chesworth Jackson (Chairman) in
Glasgow. Both Mr. James Thomson and,
Dr. John \‘C’inning are Pioneers in Health
Education. Their subjects were respectively
“ Why I Object to Inoculations and Serums ”'
and “ How to Keep Well,” and their eloquent
and instructive addresses were greatly appre--
ciated by the large audiences at both highly
successful and crowded meetings which passed
unanimously the following Resolution :—

That this Meeting, believing that the application
of vivisectional theories has proved an obstacle
to progress, draws public attention to the dangers.
of inoculations and serums and to the necessity
for the encouragement and support of methods of’
healing which are dissociated from the cruel,
useless and unscientiﬁc experiments on animals.

Striking Statements in the Speeches.

Describing his researches into inoculation,
Mr. Thomson said he had satisﬁed himself
that it was a gigantic commercial business.
The eradication of many epidemic diseases.
in his opinion was due to improved sanitation
and not to the use of serums and inoculations:

(Evening .News, March 29th).

Dr. John \Vinning said “ Health was not
deemed our common heritage. This was.
quite wrong. Some day we would look upon
sickness and disease as a sin and be ashamed.
of ourselves. To-day, we expected every
normal man to observe the moral code.
Tomorrow, we should expect every man
to keep always in good health; man should
never require a doctor. One of the great
mistakes made to—day was in failing to under—
stand the clear and unmistakable warnings of
nature.” “Vivisection,” he said, “was un—
necessary and unscientiﬁc; there was no need
to cause one animal a single pain to make us

healthy and strong.”

Other Meetings.

An enthusiastic meeting was held at the
Craigentinny—Lochend Social Centre, Edin-
burgh (Craigentinny House) on Sunday,
March 26th. Mr. A. N. Beilby, the Hon.
Warden of the Centre, who acted as Chairman,

238

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

May, 1939

was responsible for the organisation of the
meeting. Mr. J. Goodbrand (Juvenile Em—
ployment Ofﬁcer) brought with him three
splendid cinematograph ﬁlms, one of which
was an all-colour amateur ﬁlm showing
animals living under natural conditions. Mr.
Goodbrand also operated the cinematograph
projector which he had provided.

A Lantern Lecture

by Mr. Paul J. Pease followed on “ Our Animal
Friends ” and was greatly appreciated. The
camera was operated by Mr. William Ramsay.
There was an audience Of over 100 adults and
children. On the suggestion of Mr. Beilby
a collection was taken for the Cause.

Mr. Pease also addressed the following :—

I. A Meeting organised by Mr. A. WI Millar
at St. Serf’s Scout Hall for Scouts and Cubs.
Films of “ Grey Owl and the Beaver,” (kindly
lent by the Overseas Club, Edinburgh) and
“ Trust Peggy ” were shown. Mr. R. J.
Bremner provided the Cinematograph camera.

2. A Meeting at St. Mungo’s Hall, Peni—
cuik, organised by Mrs. Cowan of Valleyﬁeld,
Penicuik. “ Grey Owl” ﬁlms were shown
and also (by courtesy of The National Canine
Defence League), a ﬁlm “ Let Dogs Delight,”
during which the speaker (19 of the slides
were of his own taking) gave a running
commentary. There was a large audience
Of nearly 100 children including Girl Guides,
The Boys’ Brigade and Scouts attending in

. uniform. A collection was taken to help the

“ Week.”
(To be concluded.)

Correspondence

To the Editor of THE ANIMAIs’ FRIEND.

ELECTROCUTION.

DEAR SIR,—-—It would appear from Captain Hume’s
letter published in your April issue that he is the only
person to whom satisfactory facilities for testing
electrocution apparatus are not available.

We cannot give him the facilities which he requires as
we do not destroy animals, but the voltage and current
applied in our apparatus have appeared in print several.
times.

To suggest that we are evasive and secretive is
absurd. Our apparatus is in use all over the country.
Some is ﬁtted with milliammeters and voltmeters,
some is periodically tested by independent electrical
engineers. How, therefore, could we hope to be
secretive even if we so desired.

Mr. Johns mentioned a number of the more eminent
Animal organisations using our apparatus in a letter

THE ANIMALS' FRIEND

which appeared in your March issue; if they will not
grant him facilities for testing their apparatus it is for
the perfectly obvious reason that they all obtained
independent expert advice before purchasing the
apparatus.

If Capt. Hume is so convinced that the ﬁgures which
he has taken from the American Journal (and which
are not necessarily applicable) are so essential, we are
quite ready to treat him in the same way as any other
purchaser and sell him a cabinet, when he may then
put it to any test which he may require in exactly the
same way that all other users do for their own. satis-
faction and peace of mind.

It is understood, of course, that we refer only to
apparatus made by ourselves, and which is used by all
the Societies mentioned by Mr. Johns and which was
strongly recommended by the Special Committee
of the National Veterinary Medical Association in their
19 37 Report.

W7 e remain, Dear Sir,

Yours faith fully,

GENERAL ELECTRICAL CONSTRUCTION & MAIN-
TENANCE LIMITED. H. FARADAY ROBERTS.
Cbief Engineer.

To the Editor of THE ANIMALs’ FRIEND.

DEAR SIR,——I very much regret that Mr. Roberts is
unable to make a satisfactory reply to my letter.

If reports showing precise readings for a number of
animals have been published for each mark Of the
apparatus supplied, perhaps Mr. Roberts will give me
chapter and verse for the publication. His second
paragraph is too vague to be signiﬁcant.

If Mr. Roberts would be kind enough to supply me
with the names and addresses of some users who have
ammeters ﬁtted to their apparatus I should be much
obliged; this would enable me to obtain much Of the
information I desire. His statement on this subject is
too vague and generalised to have any scientiﬁc value.

Some years ago Mr. Johns invited me to meet the
designer of his apparatus and to see some dogs elec-
trocuted with it at Croydon. The designer was to
bring an ammeter with him and I was to be allowed
to satisfy myself. I accepted this invitation and the
designer arrived—but there was no ammeter!

I have been in touch with two of the principal
societies using this apparatus. Neither has been able
to supply me with the requisite data, or with any data
that would be satisfactory to an intelligent enquirer.

Mr. Roberts suggests that I should buy a cabinet and
test it. Unfortunately the price is, I. believe, £65, and
the society with which I am associated could not arord
such a sum. (We are not very good at raising money,
I am sorry to say, though some people consider that
money-raising should be the main pre-occupation of an
animal welfare organisation.) If any reader of this
paper would care to provide us with a cabinet, I have
no doubt that we could arrange for a full report to be
published. The report would, of course, only apply
to the particular mark of apparatus investigated, when
used on mains of the particular voltage for which it
was designed; but it might contain data which would
be of much more general interest.

In conclusion, I would urge any reader of this paper
who may have inﬂuence, as a subscriber or otherwise,
with any organisation using electrocution cabinets, to
use that inﬂuence for the purpose of securing that one

239

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

of the following three alternatives shall be adopted.
Either:

(I) That every cabinet shall be ﬁtted with an am—

meter and that readings shall be recorded; this is the .

simplest and most satisfactory course, and would in
particular furnish a check on the manner in which the
apparatus is being used. Or

(2) That steps shall be taken for the issue of a stan—
dard speciﬁcation through the British Standards In—
stitution, and for ensuring conformity with the speci—
ﬁcation; or .

(5) At the very least, that full particulars of the
apparatus in use, including a series of ammeter readings
showing the limits of Variation of current from animal
to animal, shall be published or otherwise made avail—
able to all subscribers. Such statements as that “obser-
vations have been taken and are considered satisfactory
by experts ” will, of course, not be regarded as satis-
factory by anybody who has followed the discussions
which have taken place on the subject of electrocution.

Yours faithfully ,

C. W. HUME.
284, Regent’s Park Road,
Finchley,
London, N. 5.

To t/Je Editor of THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND.

OBJECT LESSONS IN CRUELTY.

SIR,—-May I crave the whole—hearted support of all
lovers of fair play for- the baby rooks in order to make
the lives of these birds less wretched? Beneﬁts and
progress are not achieved by organised and calculated
cruelty to the parent birds and their offspring. We
must uphold our national love of fair play and not cling
to mean and atrocious traditions which show a de—
bauched and primeval love of cruelty.

Object lessons in cruelty to nesting rooks teach
the young to have a callous disregard for the feeling
of other forms of life, which is performing a national
dis—service, for the feelings of decent-minded children
are severely shocked by such mean and inhuman
actions to the parent birds and their young ones, who
so often fall back into the nest wounded. If rooks have
to be shot in some districts it can be done oat of tbe e/ore
reason. It may not be easy for those who can only hit
and mutilate a bird in, or on, the nest, in a tree, and
clamour for the hideous “ Massacre of the Innocents ”
to continue.

The shooting fraternity try to vilify the. rook, and
say there are not enough insects for them, but there is
no scientiﬁc basis for their assertion, since there are
some 4,000,000 species of insects. A local research
worker states “ There are more living creatures in the
average uncultivated ﬁeld than the entire population
of the world.” One investigator in The Country/man
states that he found that about 50 per cent. of the total
food of the rook was wireworm for the whole year,
so there appear to be plenty! What bird eats more
wireworm? Not the partridge, for the total food of the
partridge for a full year is under 3 per cent. of insect
food, according to the latest scientiﬁc investigation.

Please remember that it is illegal to shoot rooks
within 50 feet of the road.

T. S. HAWKINS,
Hon. See. N.C.F.A.IV., Ber/é; Bram/2.

May, 1939

To Me Editor of THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND.
A WONDERFUL CURE.

DEAR SIR,———\Y/ill you allow me some space in your
paper to inform your readers of a most wonderful cure
for Eczema and Worms in dogs. I spent a day in
visiting the inventor and came away with the impression
that I had met one of the ﬁnest animal lovers in existence.

Mr. H. R. Jones has been working quietly, all by
himself with no outside encouragement, in his little
“ Hospital” for 10 years. He has cured (inter a/z'o)
10,000 cases of Eczema in dogs,and has been so intent
on doing this most important work that he had had no
time for advertising or making friends. He showed me
numberless testimonials from persons all over the
country and I made the acquaintance of four of his
patients. Two of these were little Cairns, they had been
sent to him from Kendal as hopeless cases and because
the owner considered that nothing could possibly be
done for them. They were in a terrible state, but now
after a few weeks treatment one of them has quite
recovered and the other only shows a few marks
which are rapidly disappearing. '

May I beg of your readers to try “Evaporal.”
It does away entirely with the Worming horror———there
is no fasting or fuss, or stufﬁng tobacco down the
unfortunate dog’s throat. There is no injury to the
intestines and no danger of over—dosing. It is ideal for
bitches and especially good for puppies and kittens.
It can be mixed with the food without fear of detection.
It is one of the most sensational discoveries of the age in
connection with animals.

Mr. Jones’ address is: Animals’ Friends’ Society,
Pavement Mews, Seven Kings, E.

I shall be glad to answer personally any enquiry with.

regard to “ Evaporal ” which is sent to me.
Yours faithfully,
E. SPRINGETT.

To the Editor of THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND.

SIR,———I had been reading your delightful and most
instructive magazine for the month of April when,
on taking up my daily paper (the Dot/y Te/egmpb and
Morning Port for April 17th.), my eye fell upon Earl
Winterton’s speech at a luncheon in connection with
a race meeting at Horsham.

It was headed “ Beer and Fox-Hunting,” and,
according to the press report, the Earl gave as his
recipe for the secret of youth : Beer, beef and mutton
(and be sure” it is Southdown !) and fox-hunting!

We will let pass the beer, the beef and the mutton
for those who like them, but is it not degrading to
this nation that in this twentieth century of so—called
Christian civilisation there is a section of the com-
munity who ﬁnd their pleasure in hounding to death
some of God’s lesser creations?

From time to time one hears of acts of great cruelty
perpetrated in the hunting ﬁeld. Fox—hunting ought
to have gone years ago to the limbo of other savage
cruelties, now mercifully long extinct.

There is an ever-increasing number of people to
whom fox-hunting and all blood—sports are loathsome.
Public opinion against them is rapidly growing, and
will not long be denied.

Yours truly,

M. O.

240

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

‘1

 

May, 1939

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

THE UNITED HUMANITARIAN LEAGUE

THE ORGANISATION WHICH WITNESSES FOR CONSISTENT ALL-INCLUSIVE HUMANITARIANISM
RECENT PUBLICATIONS:
The League has recently issued the following attractive and instructive publications:
“FRANCIS OF ASSISI: APOSTLE OF HUMANENESS,”
WESTACOTT, author of “ Onlooker’s Note Book ”
single copy).
“ SAVAGERIES OF ‘ CIVILISED ’ LIFE,” a leaﬂet composed of choicest cullings from HENRY S. SALT’S
highly valuable book, “ Seventy Years Among Savages ” (3/- per dOZen, 9d. per 25).

“THINK, SPEAK, LIVE PEACE,” a timely leaﬂet, the demand for which has already necessitated a
second edition (2/6 per 100, 8d. per 25)

an opportune booklet by CHARLES A.
in THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND (2/6 per dozen, 3d. per

Write for information regarding the Movement, and for literature to:

Grace Hawkins, Hon. Secretary, 4», Worsley Road, Hampstead, London, N.\V.3

 

NATIONAL ANTI-VACCINATION LEAGUE

The Annual Public Meeting of the League will be held on Thursday, May 11th, at
3pm., at Caxton Hall, Westminster, S.W.I. Chairman: Mr. W. A. Sibly (Headmaster
of \Wycliffe College, Stonehouse, Gloucestershire). Other speakers: Mr. T. Groves, l\/I.P.,
Mr. W". Leach, M.P., Dr. Bertrand Allinson, Dr. A. Day, Rev. \W. J. Piggott, and Mr. H. G.
Chancellor. A Conversazione will be held in the evening during which there will be an
enjoyable musical programme and short speeches. Tickets for this function can be had
free of charge from the Secretary, 25, Denison House, 296, Vauxhall Bridge Road,

London, SW. I .

The public are invited to these meetings. Questions answered.

 

ECZEMA CONQUERED AT LAST THE WORMING HORROR ABOLISHED

No more fasting or fuss

EVAPORAL

Anti-Eczema and Worm Tablets

THE SUPER-CON DITION ER

FOR DOGS AND . CATS

 

 

 

Absolutely tasteless—can be mixed with the food

 

 

All details from

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND SOCIETY

Pavement Mews, Seven Kings, Essex

(Governing Director, H. R. Jones)

241

 

 

 

 




THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND May, 1939

 

THE NATIONAL CANINE DEFENCE LEAGUE
The Pioneer Organization for the ' Welfare of Dogs

Gives skilled treatment to over 60,000 ailing dogs and other animals every year.
Pleads the cause of the chained or otherwise ill-treated dog, by the circulation of many
thousands of posters and leaﬂets every year.

Enlightens the public on all aspects of dog-welfare by press prOpaganda, cinema ﬁlms,
lantern lectures, essay competitions, etc.

Seeks to pro/yibit tbe vivisettion of dogs.

Membership 23. 6d. upwards.
CHAS. R. JOHNS, Secretary, VICTORIA STATION HOUSE. S.W.I

 

 

FOR HOLIDAYS THIS YEAR TRY

ILFRACOMBE IN GLORIOUS DEVON!

Mrs. James Allen’s Vegetarian Guest House in this lovely West Country is now so well known as scarcely
to need advertising.

Established thirty-two year: it is exclusively vegetarian.

Its liberal, varied, and well-balanced diet; the abundance of fresh fruits; delicious salads; conservatively
cooked vegetables; the appetizing and nourishing soups, savouries, sauces, roasts, sweets, etc, have been enjoyed
by hundreds of guests.

DO 'COME, AND SEE FOR YOURSELF!
Send to-day for Leaﬂet giving full information. Terms are very moderate.
Miss NORA ALLEN, 3 3, Broad Park Avenue, Ilfracombe, Devon.

 

 

 

 

BRIGHTON & HOVE The Little Animals’ Friend
AN ILLUSTRATED MAGAZINE.
Price 115d. post free.
Ideal Boarding Establishment Edited by JESSEY WADE.
Near Sea and Downs, generous - STORIES, PICTURES, COMPETITIONS, ETC.
diet. Bedrooms, H. and C. Valuable in Schools and Homes.
water, gas ﬁres. Annual Subscription, post free, IS. 6d.
Moderate TWWL Bound Volumes 1938. Price 1/9 per post
artistic and attractive Binding
Tariff : MR. & MRS. MASSINGHAM THE HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY,
16 & I7 NORFOLK TERRACE, BRIGHTON 80 Mosley Street, Manchester 2.

 

 

 

The League. for the Prohibition Of Cruel Sports

7, VICTORIA STREET, WESTMINSTER, S.W.I.

President: HAMILTON FYFE

Secretary: J. C. SHARP . Hon. Treasurer: ARCHDEACON F. LEWIS DONALDSON, M.A.

This Society is devoted solely to the protection of Animals against Cruel Sports. The
League is doing for wild animals what other societies are doing for domestic animals.

Membership zs. 6d. upwards.

 

 

242

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

May, 1939 THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

 

HUMANE EDUCATION IN- SCHOOLS AND
HOMES WILL END CRUELTY TO ANIMALS

OUR SPECIAL CAMPAIGN IS YIELDING REMARKABLE RESULTS.

_—._——.——_

DONATIONS AND GIFTS ARE URGENTLY NEEDED TO EXTEND THIS PRACTICAL WORK.

-_——-_.__c—.

LEGISLATION IS SLOW AND UNSATISFACTORY.

Please help The Humane Education Society to go ahead with effective and enduring
work for Horses, Dogs, Cats, Birds, and all Creatures in need of friendship
, ard protection.

7 Reportr, Leaf/oi: and Journal gladly rent on application to 1——
The Humane Education Society, '80, Mosley Street, Manchester, 2.
GEORGE ARLISS, President. ARTHUR MIDDLETON, Secretary.

 

The International League of If You Are a Cat Lover You Should Join
St. Hubert . The Cats Protection

(Bishop of Liége) League
This League has been instituted for the cessation The one, society devoted SPlely to the welfare
of all forms of cruelty, including the slaughter and of cats and klttens.

trapping of animals for human consumption and for

personal adornment. And for the purpose of bringing MEMBERSHIP 5']: PER ANNUM?

before all nations the realisation of the callous taking including the Society’s oﬁicial organ,
of innocent life for sport and as a ﬁnancial prOposition. “ THE CAT ,,

MEMBERS INVITED Associate Membership Subscription gs. 6d. per annum.
All information from :——~

The Organising Secretary, Write for Free Literature to :—The Secretary, 29,
137, Church Street, Kensington, London, W.8. Church Street, Slough. Bucks.

 

 

 

National Society for Abolition of Cruel Sports

56 BLOOMSBURY STREET, LONDON, W.C.I. ,
Chairman: H. G. CHANCELLOR. Hon. Treamrer: LORD OLIVIER. Hon. Secretary: BERTRAM LLOYD

New Publication: . 1 FOOD AND SPORT
' H. G. Chgncellor
Price 3d.

 

R e ber the Nature Cure Hos ital and

IN CASE OF SICICNESS :—N:I1:irrig Home. It has been foufhded on

humane principles and it provides the kind of diet and treatment you would desire to have.

~ Pl th' k fits n d . Th a'orit of

IN TIMES OF HEALTH :_itse:)sa:ienlttsl ar: admitiidsbelomf gslt. Eyven
a small Annual Subscription from you would be a very great help.

63-65, Erpingham Road, Putney, S.W.I5
Telephone: Putney 66oz.
Out-Patient Clinic: 41, BAKER STREET, WJ. Te/op/Jone: WELBECK. 8348.

 

 

 

All rubm'ibtionr and communication: for too M agazine would be aa’a’rerrea’ “ T/Je Editor, ANIMALS, FRIEND
Featborrtone Building, Higb Hal/20m, London. W . C .1.”

 




THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND Ala}; 1939

 

(1 EDW. 8.) Prohibition of Vivisection on Dogs (Scotland)

 

 

BILL

Provide for the abolition of vivisection upon dogs; and A-D- 1936~
for purposes connected therewith.

 

 

B it enacted by the King’s most Excellent Majesty, by and with
B the advice and consent of the Lords Spiritual and Temporal,
and Commons, in this present Parliament assembled, and by the
authority of the same, as follows :—

 

1.———(1) From and after the passing of this Act no person shall Prohibition
perform any Vivisection on any dog, with or without the use of Of Vim-
anaesthetics, and no person shall be licensed to perform any such zchfn 0“
experiment. as

(2) Any person contravening the provisions of this section shall
be liable on conviction under the Summary Jurisdiction Acts, in the
case of a ﬁrst offence to a ﬁne not exceeding ﬁfty pounds, and in the
case of a second or any subsequent offence to a ﬁne not exceeding
one hundred pounds or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
three months.

 

2. Section ﬁve of the Cruelty to Animals Act, 1876, in so far as Amendment

relates to do 3, i hereb re eale . 0f 39 81 40
g S y P d Vict. c. 77.

3. This Act shall come into operation on the ﬁrst day of January, Commence-
nineteen hundred and thirty-eight. ment.

~ 4. This Act may be cited as the Prohibition of Vivisection on Short title
20 Dogs (Scotland) Act, 1937, and shall extend to Scotland only. and eXtent-
(Bill 25) '

“ SAVE OUR DOGS ”
NATIONAL CAMPAIGN. ‘

(Under foe auspices of The Soottz'r/y Tail— Waggerr’ Club.)

 

PafI‘OﬂI—THE COUNTESS OF HADDINGTON, THE EARL OF BUCHAN, ROSALIE, COUNTESS
OF BUCHAN.

Hon. Direoz‘or am! Treasurer—MISS N. IVORY.

 

Please all talk to your Members of Parliament about the above Bill
(introduced by Mr. Joseph Westwood, M.P., in 1936) and ask them
to give it their support when re-introduced.

‘Write for Petition Forms to Miss Ivory.
Edinburgh—Io, Queensferry Street. London—q, Haymarket Court, Haymarket, SW. 1.

 

 

 

Printed in Great Britain by the Surrey Fine Art Press, Cavendish Road, Redhill, Surrey, for the
National Council for Animals' Welfare. 1, Featherstone Buildings. High Holborn. London. W.C.l.

 

 

 




