. 1191;

TJWMvaVﬂluesofRelegwmzw ’ 3 3 ,

$91.93*; 41*“.-. . ..

{AMOught we, then, to believe in God? You may say that to
discuss this question is not to discuss the value of religion.
Religion 15 a very vague word, and some may agree with Mata
{ thew Arnold that it does not imply a\belief 1n a personal God.
For my part, I disagree: I think that it is generally underlém'
i stood to imply this, although of course it includes much more
' besides. But my object is not to discuss the meaning of a
word. If you think that I have used religion wrongly, I am ' 5
content to apologize. The question I do wish to discuss is the i
value of belief in a personal God. This question, quite apart .1
E from any'wider meaning of religion, is certainly a serious one
;- g for many people. When Matthew Arnold says that it oughtm 3
,. not to be so, that it is not a valuable element in Christianity, I
perhaps I should agree with him, though Christians certainly
will not. But that many people feel it to be serious, even he
perhaps would not deny, although his arguments imply such
a denial. At all events, this is the only question with which I
am concerned: What is the value of belief in a personal God?
You cannot have religion, in the sense I mean, without this '
belief; although, when you have this, you may also have much
more in your religion.
’3" l But next I must say what I mean by a personal God. As
for personal, all that I imply by the word is easily to be under? 7
stood. I should hardly have thought it necessary to point the . i
i meaning out, but for Matthew Arnold’s singular obtuseness in
7 seeing what is meant when he is called a person, and his as:
sumption that only the metaphysical ability of bishops can 1m" ‘
derstand the matter. There are two properties which must
belong to a person, whatever else may belong to him besides '
(I) A person must be endowed with that which we call mind
as distinct from our brains and our bodies; and (2) he must
also have that positive quality whereby we distinguish our- '
selves from other peeple. These two marks of personality are
quite suﬁicient for my purpose. All of us know what is meant
by these two things, although we may not know exactly where+
_ in they consist. We think that other people have minds—-
that they are not mere bodies—and we know from our experi-
ence of ourselves what we mean by this diﬂerence. And also -

be"

I» I
, v‘ V W P‘s ‘\ .
p Nae—x 1 1“
“vet":

M ’ ..
..x.m1 my“

 

nﬂg .
ux. .

 

r .

 

“1,“,
has?!" - -=-

I n . ‘t'ioé‘l'mi-‘i'f 3N Jim;

V'V‘r—jw h .
4- “u‘ﬁigm‘ru 1 J

.wn,ww1. .‘VTF'

wv-Jrv J‘s run—f7}

 

, /

 

 

0“

 




139 4

 

14’ . ~ ' ' . i . a :i' '
., ~"‘+r Tﬁﬁ VALUE OFlRELIGION {ti/f 53...; J/ T

{q}, a IT IS, I think, well known that a great many people nowadays / I
believe 1n God. And it is also known that many people do not , ' " '

believe that any God exists. Each party, the believers and the \K \.- . 4:: .1
unbelievers, the Christian and the inﬁdel, does know in general g” k . .
that the other party numbers many members. Some time ago ' g .. " 1‘ ‘ t ,
there was no little public controversy between‘these factions. . \ . '
B'radlaugh and Huxley, to mention well-known names, as?"

' saulted the believers very vigorously, and Matthew Arnold did
his best to arbitrate. At present the question whether God
exists or not, seems to have ceased to be of public interest.
Books are, no doubt, still published on both sides of the quesiw
tion, Huxley and Matthew Arnold are still read; but in gen?
eral neither side seems very anxious to convince the other. I
doubt if the Christians ever think how many'inﬁ‘d‘els there are.\\
And the inﬁdels, on their side, have ceased to question equally
the right of other people to believe and their own right to dis-.?
believe. In general no unpleasantness arises from this great
difference of opinion: you do not even know whether your
neighbor is a Christian or an inﬁdel; you see no reason to
inquire, even if the question should occur to you.

0 l Now there was not always such indifference on this matter:
the question has been one of life and death. Perhaps I have
exaggerated the present state of acquiescence. If any of you
think so, then there is hope that you may take more interest
than I expect in what I have to say.\ For I mean to re—discuss
this ancient controversy; to put before you, so far as I am able,
what valid arguments there are in answer to the question:
Ought we to believe in God? ,1;

‘5' I My utmost hope 1n the matter is to make clear the 1ssues, on _ l?
which our answer to this question must depend. For it seems
to me that on both sides false arguments are often used, and I f 1
,1“; ‘5 do not know but what, if t‘ nese could be dismissed, that utter I?;;_ '

«O‘

m
, .
rim: rum; w 1'.

v‘ '.',"" "’ .‘ ‘ .4 ‘ ('91;
'.1u‘nﬂ;§;:9ﬂfm A551 IkW’ﬁ-‘J It: {'51 5

I .w '1 ""

 

,1.
a" s‘rrsﬂ;
'0

m

“I" l\& lecture delivered for the London School of Ethigs and Social Phil? ”,3: ”W”, i- . A
osophy. . - _

Vetmwa I 5

~ ,,,

 




“8"?“ -- Intmetional;wf'ownalevefaEthiss.

difference of Opinion which I have pointed out might disap’f’
pear. For myself I share the Opinion which, as, I have said,

seems from their actions to be that of most menu—(Ezrthe opinion

that this difference between the Christian and the inﬁdel is of

little practical importance. On questions of much more imf‘
portance, on moral questions, both sides agree for the most

part even in opinion: and in practice they agree still more.

Nevertheless, so long as many say, “There is a God,” while

others answer, “I see no reason for thinking that there is,” it

remains a possible danger that hostile action should result.

This difference, I remind you again, has in the past been a large

cause of violence and persecution: and so, not probably, but

possibly, it may become again. ESpeciallv if the majority of

Christians should once become fully aware how many people

differ from them in belief and how completely, the present quiet

state of things might be much altered. In any case, it is, I

think, desirable that agreement should be reached, and, failing

this, that web side should know at least what grounds will

justify belief or disbelief. These grounds I shall try to give

you.

‘ " i I raise the question then: Ought we to believe in God? and
I put it in this form partly because, apart from any general
importance it has or lacks, this is a question which occurs to
most people at one time or another, as one requiring that they
personally should ﬁnd an answer to it. The answer that they
give will make little difference to their future conduct: they
will probably become accustomed to the answer they adopt;
they will take it as a matter of course and quite forget that it
ever was a serious question with them. For some, however,
though it makes no difference to their conduct, to their happi?‘
ness it may make much. And in any case, when the question
is ﬁrst raised, however soon they answer it and cease to think
about it, just then it is. a question to which they want an an?
swer. To help them to the right one will surely be a work of
use. Arguments may appeal to those who have already raised
the questiOn of themselves; whereas they are thrown away on
those whom habit has convinced of their own answer. More?
over it is those who raise the question now who will determine
the habitual answer of the future.

ﬁe

 




 

. 097

 

weer 'Mtemationalesﬁomw ~ ‘" "

we know that when we talk of another person’s thoughts we
do not mean our own thoughts. Two persons may think of
the same thing, but each one’s thought belongs to him and not
to the other. We know what we mean by a thought belonging
to a person from our own experience of the thoughts which
belong to us: and we are never tempted to think that when you
and I think of the same thing, there are not two thinkings but
one thinking. That you think of it, is one fact, and that I
think of it is another, whatever the difference between the two
may be. And so when God thinks, that he thinks must be one
fact, and not the same fact as the thinking of anybddy else
whatever, even if it can include these. other thoughts. This
property that his thoughts belong to him, as our thoughts be?
long to us, in a sense in which they do not belong to anybody
else, a personal God must have. And he must also have that
other property common to you and me, which we call mind, as
distinguished from body. These two properties are surely very
easy to identify, and when I say a personal God I merely mean ,
a God possessed of these two properties, whatever others he i
may have besidesﬁ-a God with mind or spirit, and a God with ' g,- i.
2.93.. mindfwf} '
’ I But God must not only be a person, he must also be a God:

and by that I mean that he must be powerful, wise and good,

all three in a greater degree than any one of us. H2E‘.’..,J?11f_€h
more powerful and wise and good has been very differentl i
thought in different religions. Some may even have held that

he was not better but worse than themselves. But even though
devil-worship deserve the title of religion I am not going to
discuss it. The question: Ought I to believe that there is

but one God, and that he is a Devil? is not, I think, a serious
question for many people. In any case, I must neglect it, and

so far agree. with Matthew Arnold that the important question

_ concerns a God, who, though he be a person also, yet does

"‘1‘ i “make for righteousness.” And ﬁnally the God, belief in I35: ‘

"I
l
*‘r *1

‘ e

 

  

 

”i l” o’ “I I {I :sz’ossibly ' the conception of the three Persons in the Athanasian Creed
’ negates, or adds something contradictory to, part of what I have said.
but I am concerned only with the manner in which most believers habit-{7“

nanythinkof-Godff‘é,

r‘
.1 f f ‘s..)’ '1...) ‘
._ . , o
‘. ‘ O I; F“. .{'
x ,n
I .

0..-“..«qc m...

 




lihiee-Valu‘eﬂof"“Religion; ~3-5-«

whom concerns me, must be conceived as very greatly more
powerful, more wise and better, than we ourselves, however
many historical religions I may be thus excluding from discus?
sion. That we can imagine a person all-wise, all-powerful and
all-good I very much doubt, but the conception of God which
I mean to discuss is one which comes as near to possessing
these attributes, the attributes ascribed to God by Christianity,
as any Christian is likely to imagine.
~37" iWith this, then, I hope to have made plain to you, the mini-T
mum of what I mean by God. And my question is whether it
is good to believe, as most religious persons do believe, that
a God possessing at least these qualities, however manv more
he may possess, however much he may transcend anthropoi
morphic notions, does actually exist? Is it good to believe that
such a God exists? Ought we to believe that he exists? What
is the value of such a belief? This? is an ethical question, and
for that reason I believe it covers more completely than any
other the whole ground of controversy between the believer
and the unbeliever. For I admit or assume, whichever you
please, that if it is true that God exists, if he really does exist,
then it is good to believe that fact. It may not perhaps be much
good, but it is 2330,, tantq good to know the truth. It is suﬁi+”“'
cient justiﬁcation for any man’s belief that what he believes is
true. If a thing is true, then no one can be blamed for believ-i’“
ing it. This, so far as I know, has never been disputed, at
least in this religious controversy. At all events I do not mean
to argue it. The question of fact,\ then, of the evidence for
God’s existence which has played so large a part in this con-T
troversy, is completely covered by my question: Before we can
fully answer the question, Is it good to believe in God? we
must ﬁrst decide whether God exists; for, if he does exist,
then, I take it,'we may say. at once that we do well to believe
in him. _

1 l But my question does‘not onlv cover this inquiry; it also
includes another: and in this lies- its advantage. For supposl?“
ing we have argued the question of - fact, the question whether
God exists or not, and have come to the conclusion, to which,
as I‘shall trvto show, we must ulﬁxnately coine, that there is L"

A . /

 

vwa—v- ‘- v - u- -

’1 l
- "Wu-.3 "'D£‘?‘»L‘.’ ‘
.

 

 

 

‘(3

 




   
 

 

e86 Internationallmtmalawatlitasw .7...

not one atom of eVidence, establishing the smallest probability
either that God exists or yet that he does not exist: supposing,
I say, that we have come to this conclusion on the factual quesr
tion, there still remains another which is also covered by my
ethical formula. There still remain what are called the moral
reasons for belief in God. Appeals to these are very often
made, and they often have great weight. But the weight they
have is largely due, I think, to a confusion. Under this one
head of moral reasons for belief we have two entirely different
sets of arguments. One set attempts to prove from moral
facts, of one sort or another, that God exists. It is argued that
morality is without a basis, unless God does exist: this Mat?“
thew Arnold argues for his God, and Mr. Arthur Balfour for
his. It is argued too by more humble persons that the good?
ness of the Christian is evidence that his belief is true. But all
these arguments plainly fall only under the factual inquiry: the
inquiry whether there be any evidence, moral or otherwise, es:
tablishing a probability that God exists. As for the other set
~ of soocalled “moral” arguments, they would I think lose much
of their inﬂuence if they were clearly distinguished from these
last. It is, in fact, contended, that whether we have any evi?‘
dence for God or not, to believe in him produces good effects;
. —-—is a powerful aid to moral action. This is an argument
which certainly deserves to be considered. We have, some
people would urge, a right and a duty to indulge in positive
belief, where the evidence alone would give us no right; and
this because of its effects. It is, therefore, proper to consider
how far a belief in God has the alleged effects. This inquiry is
what you probably understood by my title, the “value of relig?
ion.” It concerns the moral arguments for belief as such; and
these must be distinguished from any moral arguments there
may be for the truth of the belief. Yet, as I have said, the two
lines of argument are frequently confused: and how important
such confusions are in strengthening religion I can show, I
think, from an obvious instance. We hear a great deal of the
value of. religion; it is urged that its inﬂuence on conduct is
enormous. But all this is usually urged on the assumption that
there is some ground for thinking it true. Yet plainlv, wheth?

ﬁ‘l

 

 




\

[g Thwmmwtrgmn s7~ ..
erAit be true or false, the evidence for its moral efﬁcacy is just
the same. Observation alone can assure us, whether it has
good effects or not; and the results of\observation will stand
ﬁrm, although the belief be proved a false one. This fact,
steadily held before the mind, cannot fail, I think, to be a chill-7‘
ing one to many supporters of religion. It does not usually
occur to them that they are bestowing their enthusiastic praises
on a belief, which, failing other arguments to prove its truth,
m be a mere delusion. A mere delusion may, no doubt, have
very good effects: but I think I am right in saying that earnest
men are very 10th to think so. If, then, it be brought home to
them that religious belief is possibly mere error, they will then
be apt either to cool in their praises of its excellent effects, or
else to argue that its effects themselves are evidences for its
truth. Now, in the former case, their moral argument for
belief is sadly weakened; and, in the latter, they have fallaéi"
ciously converted it into the moral argument for God’s exist?”
enceffor the truth of that belief. In short, if We are fairly to\
consider the value of religion, we must account the possible
disadvantages of belief in what may be a mere delusion, as
having a certain weight against alleged advantages. Many
apologists, I think, are apt to forget that they are putting in the
balance on their own side of the question an assumption that
their belief in God is true. Now, unless they can prove by
other arguments that so it is, they ought not only to remove a
part of the weight from their own scale, but actually to add it
to the other. For most men would admit, as I think rightly,
that a strong belief in what is possibly false, is in itself a doubt:
ful blessing.

(3: Well, then, I hope to have convinced you that to think
clearly in this matter is important: What I have called the
factual inquiry into the Kath-of religious belief must be kept
quite distinct from the moral inquiry into the worth of its
eﬁects. But at the same time the factual inquiry is necessary
before we can decide upon the value of religion; because the
truth of a belief, although it cannot alter its effects, has in it?”

'self some ethical importance. With this/we may proceed to
our discussion; and ﬁrst to this same. factual inquiry.

 

 




I .

-,1
tﬁi

 

   

,v " -‘,.. . - L
Nuk+ l 4.1 ‘A '

 

“8’8““ mintermaﬁonalmzﬁoumal— ofE-thw M

 

 

_.,...The question here before us is this: Have we any evidence
rendering it probable that God exists? The question is a large
one, and I can do no more than summarize the arguments. E
And yet I think this summary, though brief, may be conclu-
sive. The conclusion I wish to establish is as I have said T}?
There is 319 probability that God exists. That is all: a purely
negative conclusion. I am an inﬁdel, and do not believe that
God exists; and I think‘the evidence will justify my disbelief.
But just as I think there is no evidence for his existence, I think
there is also no evidence that he does not exist.‘ I am not an .
atheiSt in one sense: I do. not deny that God exists. My arguf“ E
ments will only urge that there is no reason for thinking that
he does; they will not urge that there is reason for thinking he
does not. I do not believe that he does. exist, but also I do 399!
believe that he does not exist. That is the attitude I am con?

cerned to recommend. .
9. i Is there, then, evidence that God exists? Is his existence at

all probable? . ,

i, We say we have evidence for a thing, when it can be inferred
from another thing that we suppose established. The question
of evidence for God’s existence is then the question whether
there are any other truths from which we can infer it. To
mention evidence at all implies that other things are true beside
the thing we want to prove. He who would prove by evidence
that God exists must ﬁrst assume that something else is true.

17“ 3 Now the truths from which we can start on such a proof are
what we call the facts of common life—ni—experience. We all be?
lieve- that we are here, between four walls, alive and able to
move; nay, more, thinking and feeling. Such are the facts of
observation, from which the Natural Sciences infer their laws.
In these things we all do believe; we cannot help believing
them, whether we like it or not. That they are true indeed, we
cannot prove. Our belief is no evidence that they are so. And
so far they are just on alevel with a belief that God exists:
that belief also is no evidence that he exists. I believe that I
exist, and some one else, I grant you, believes that God exists;
and so far as these beliefs go, there is not a bit of difference
between the two things that are believed. Both have an equal 2? .

 

 

.5. .._-. r '

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

WWn enummw

 

 

 

 

 

61!.




WVaWofMRezzgrbn“ , .. .829. .. .. 7

right to be taken for true and an equal right to be taken for '
false. But when we come to the question of evidence and
probability, then there is all the difference in the world between
them. There is evidence, in plenty, that I exist and there is
none that God exists.

' i For my existence is an object of such a nature that it can be
inferred from other objects of belief. These also are, like it
and God, mere objects of belief; they cannot be proved true.
But they are such that if any one of them be true, the others and
my existence are so too. The simplest statement as that “This
hand moves,” involves a host of others, from which again a
crowd of other simple statements, as that ”I moved it, may be
deduced. And all the arguments to prove the existence of God
rest upon evidence like this. The evidence is certainly as good
as we can get; it is what we cannot help believing, although it
may be false. To the evidence, then, I have no objection: but——\
the existence of God will not rest upon it. That I have a scar
on my hand IS excellent evidence of something: the scar is visi~ '
ble and palpable, and no doubt it had some cause. I cannot
prove that these things are so; and you cannot either, except
from premises equally doubtful in themselves. All of them
are possibly not true. But if you grant me that the scar is
there, then I maintain there is no evidence, no probability, that
an angel with a burning sword came down and made it: but
there is much evidence, much probability that it came about in
a way that I could mention.

l People take, then, the world as we think we know it, and
they infer that because it is such as they and we all. believe it to
be, God must exist. To the facts they start from I have no
objection, although we must admit they may be false: but the
inference they draw from them is as absurd as the inference
from my scar to that angel. There are two well- known argu-
ments of this kind—the stock arguments of what is called

7. Natural Theology—arguments which in one form or another
are still 1n use. These are the arguments to a First Cause and

. the argument from Design. The inadeqmcy of both these
arguments was ﬁnally pointed out a hundred years ago by
Kant. With the ﬁrst, as distinguished from the second, we “7

6:?

 

 




, 9o" s.Izntsmatimml»Journals? =ofEthzcs W

need not deal, for, even if some First Cause were necessary, it
would yet remain to prove that this Cause was intelligent and
good: it must be both, you remember, to come within our
meaning of personal God. That this Cause is intelligent and
good as well as powerful is what the argument from Design
attempts to prove. The only argument, therefore, with which
we have to deal is that: From the nature of the world, as it
appears on observation, we can infer that it or parts ofit were
or are caused by a being immensely intelligent, wise or good.
The answer to this 'is summary but sound. We assume that
useful and beautiful objects we ﬁnd in the world were made by
man—~had for their cause a being of some intelligence and
goodness. By these useful and beautiful objects I mean houses
and drains, hospitals and works of art—if you like, a watch—-
and I call it an assumption that they were made by man, in
order not to overstate my case. We have as our premise, then,
that certain objects, which I am far, from denying to be either
useful or beautiful or sometimes both, had for their cause some
tolerably good people. Then, says the Natural Theologian, we
may infer that anything useful or good we ﬁnd in the world,
that is not a work of man’s designingQ—man himself, above all,
the most useful and beautiful of all—had also for its cause a
person of intelligence and goodness. This is the argument.
But what reason have we for supposing that anything at all of
any kind in the world was caused by a good person? Simply
the assumption that certain things of one kind were caused by
man. And what reason have We for this assumption? Simply
and solely the fact that we can follow the series of causes back
from them to the working of man. And if we are therefore '
going to call man their cause, we must also ascribe all other
events to those which preceded them in the same way as man’s
work plainly preceded houses and drains. If houses and drains
are the effect of man’s work, then man himself and all other
things, must be the effect of events in the world which pref
ceded him, and so on ad inﬁnitung. If, on the other hand,
houses and drains Were not caused by man, then we have no
reason for supposing that anything useful or beautiful ever
was caused by a good person. Either of these two alternatives :11:

‘13

 

 




WaluamaﬁRahgwmm 91 .

wrecks the theologian’s argument completely. If we are to
infer from the nature of an effect to the nature of a cause, we
can only do so on the assumption that ‘we can ﬁnd the ggmpnlugte ..
causes of events in the course of nature. But if every natural ‘

mug—03.: “an“

event has a natural cause, then unless God is a natural cause,
he is not a cause of anything at all. I have put this argument.
in a simple instance, for the sake of clearness: but it is of uni-:7"
versal application. It has the advantage of being a question of' .
logic, and not of fact; no new instances can overthrow it. It
is as with the law of contradiction. If you have contradicted
yourself, within the meaning of logic, then you must have made-
some mistake, however trivial. And so, if you use this argu?‘
ment, in whatever form you dress it, it must be worthless since
your conclusion will not follow from your premises. One of
your premises must be: This is the cause of that; and the other :.
Every event has a cause. And your conclusion is: God is the-
cause of these other events; his existence alone will explain
them. But your ﬁrst premise assigns as the cause of one natural
event, another natural event. And you cannot be sure of this,
unless every natural event is caused. by another natural event :.
otherwise the effect you began with might not have had the
cause which you assignfthe hospital might have been made by
miracle and not made by man. Either then God must be one or
more among natural events, or else you have no reason to assert
that he is more like one than another, more like a man than a
billiard-ball. But you have asserted Him to be more like 'a
man than a billiard-ball ; and you certainly cannot show that
any natural event is a personal God. Either then God is a
cause in some sense utterly different from that in which man is
a cause: and then we cannot infer either to his existence or his
nature; or else he is a cause in the sense in which man is a
cause, and then' we can infer his existence but not his nature:
we can infer that the events in question had a cause, but not
that their cause was God. This dilemma applies in general to-
every argument from Design-‘éeand not only to these, but to .
every metaphysical argument that tries to mount from Nature-
and Mind to any superior Reality. All such arguments infer
from the nature and existence of some or all the things that are {“i ‘ *’

N

 

 

‘l‘l

 




~93” EnternaﬂmimmrnWefwﬁthwamw

agreed to exist that something else, of a different nature, also
exists. But the only known valid principle by which we can
infer from the existence of one thing to the existence of some?
thing else is this same principle of causality, according to which
that “something else” must be one among natural events. All
these arguments must therefore involve the fallacy involved in
the vulgar argument from Design. On the basis of such argu?‘
ments modern phiIOSOphers are fond of offering to us, in place
of a personal God, a more or less consoling Reality or Absolute.
But the skeleton of any such construction is noth'ng more than
this old fallacy. They mufﬂe it up in garments inﬁnitely com?
plicated, many of which are in themselves sound stuff. But
the more they muﬂie and the sounder the stuff, the less attrac-T‘
tive their Absolute becomes. We have, I think, every reason
to prefer the old God of Christianity. In him the artiﬁce is
more transparent, and the product, none the less, by far more
beautiful. r

"-'" iWe cannot then make a single step towards proving God’s
existence from the nature of the world, such as we take it to be
in common life or such as Natural Science shows it. That we
are here to~night, that we were not here this morning, that we
came here by means of cabs or on our feet: all facts of this
sort, in which we cannot help believingnéﬁthese facts, with all
the implications, which Science or PhilosOphy can draw from
them, offer us not one jot of evidence that God exists. But
there are other arguments which start like this one from ex}.E
perience. There is the argument from general belief. I will
admit at once that most people, who have existed heretofore,
have believed in a God of some sort. I have, indeed, no reason
to believe that there are or have been other people and still less
that they have had this belief, except on the same grounds as I
believe in the facts of common life. If we are not here now,
there is no evidence even that most peOple have believed in
God. The mere fact of general belief, then, is no more certain
than the facts of experience: if we reject the latter as untrue,
we cannot use the former as evidence for God’s existence. You
cannot argue, as many peeple do: The facts of science are
merely matters of general belief, and God’s existence is the 7'11: ~

 

 

 

10°

 




The V alue""'of'“"Reiig‘ibﬁ.“i" ,__93 ,

same; therefore the one is as certain as the other. For, unless
the facts of science are true, you have no title to your statement
that God’s existence is a matter of general belief. . But now,
granting thatit is a matter of general belief, does this fact
establish any probability that God exists? I think it cannot.
For many things which we now all admit to'be errors, have in
the past been matters of general belief: such, for instance, as
that the sun went round the earth, which Galileo controverted.
All the probability is, then, in favor of. the supposition that
many things which are still generally believed, will in time be
recognized as errors. And what ground can we have for hold;
ing that the belief in God is not among their number? The
probabilities seem all the other way. For I think it will be
admitted that the belief in GOd has in the past derived much
support from ignorance of Natural Science and from such are:
guments as those of Natural Theology. If, then, as I have
tried to show, those arguments are fallacious, in proportion as
this is recognized, the belief in God will-become less general.
You can therefore only hold that belief in God will persist
undiminished, while other beliefs disappear, if you maintain the
continued triumph of ignorance and fallacious reasoning. But

‘ a belief which persists from causes like these has surely no
claim to be therefore considered true. In short, if you are to
argue from general belief to truth, you must have independent
grounds for thinking that the belief in question is true. If you
can show a probability that it is true, then the fact of general
belief may conﬁrm that probability. But if, as I try to show in
this case, there is no such probability, no evidence that God
exists, then the fact of general belief is perfectly useless as
evidence.

l The argument from general belief must then break down,
and I think I need hardly discuss at length any so-called histor-TF’“
ical proofs for God’s existence. They are all from the nature
of the case too obviously weak. If what they aim at is estab'i"
lishing the fact of miracles, then no historical proof can by any
possibility show that an event, which. happened, was in very
truth a mimclgifthat it had no natural cans/e. That an event
should have had no natural cause contradicts, as I tried to if. 12

 

 

10‘

 




94. 1 Internatienal(“laureates-ﬂ: Ethics; -

show, the very grounds of historical evidence, for this is all
based on inferences from effect to cause, and if a miracle is
ever possible, we can never say that any particular thing was
the cause of any other. But if you mean by miracle only a great
and wonderful work, then that a man can perform astonishing
feats is no proof either that he knows the truth or that he tells
it. And, miracles apart, historical proofs can only show that
somebody said something: whether what he said was true
must be decided on quite other grounds.

a” gThe facts of common life, then, the facts with which natural
science and history deal, afford no inference to God’s existence.
If a man still believes that God exists, he cannot support his
belief by any appeal to facts admitted both by himself and the
inﬁdel. He must not attempt to purgyg that God probably ex?“
ists ; for that is impossible. He must be content to afﬁrm that
he sees as clearly that God exists as he sees that he himself
does. Many peOpIe, I admit, may really have had this strong
conviction. And many people may be content to justify belief
upon this ground alone. They, I think, are right. Their posié”
‘tion is quite unassailable. If you have this faith, this intuition
of God’s existence, that is enough. You may, I admit, he as
certain that God exists as that you yourself exist: and no one
has any right to say that you are wrongﬁ But these are two
independent facts: one is perhaps 51.; certain to you as the
other: but the one is not, more likely to be true, because the
other is so. The moment you use that argument, you will be
wrong. You cannot argue that if you exist, God also probably
exists: as you can argue that if you exist, I also probably exist.
Nor can you argue that because you are so certain .of God’s
existence, I ought to admit the slightest probability that he

- exists: if you do this, you are appealing to an argument similar
to that from general belief. In fact, if I were the only person
who could not see that God exists, and all the world agreed
with you, it would yet be just as likely that I was right, as that
you and all the world were right. It 13 equally likely we are
right and equally likely we are wrong. but only equally. I
have no more right to argue that probably God does not exist,
because I cannot see he does, than you to argue that probably:

 

 

 

 

 

07/

 




WWngfome “9'5” "

,. a, ,. “ﬂy .-hg,.waeu "pro. 5‘”

he does exist, because you see he does. This is all I have tried

ence. It is mere faith, not proof, which justiﬁes your state-l "
mzent God exists. Your belief is right, because you cannot
help believing: and my unbelief is right, because I have not
got that intuition. We both are justiﬁed by mere necessity.
iAn appeal to faith, then,—~—-to intuition—is the sole ground
for asserting the truth of religion. That truth, if it be true, is
odordinate with the facts of daily life, and cannot be inferred
from them, as they can be inferred from one another. And so
far it would seem that religious belief stands in the same posi-é
tion asour moral beliefs. These moral judgments, too, it may
be said, are independent of beliefs about the world: their truth
also can never be inferred from that of daily facts. '

'7" i That moral truth cannot be thus inferred from any facts, is,
I think, quite demonstrable. But since it is denied, I must say
something on this head. The argument of Mr. Balfour’s book
on “The Foundations of Belief” depends in part on this denial.
If, he seems to say, the view of Naturalism that all things were
evolved from natural causes is true, then it is inconsistent still
to hold that our beliefs in the goodness of this and the beauty
'of that are also true. And a similar view is implied by Mat?

. thew Arnold, who seems to hold, that unless we can verify the
existence of a power not ourselves that, makes for righteous?
ness, then our belief that certain conduct is righteous and other
conduct wicked, must also justly perish. But is this so? Is it
inconsistent to hold that this is right and that is wrong, and at
the same time to hold that we only think this right, that. wrong,
because in fact such beliefs have helped us to survive? Or can
it be less true that right is right, even if there be no power that
will reward it? The former argument refutes itself. For if it
be true that beliefs were evolved, then the belief that. they were
so must also have been evolved. And this, according to Mr.
Balfour, isa reason .why we must doubt its truth. That is to
say, the fact of evolution is a. reason for doubting the fact of.
evolution. It is inconsistent to believe in the fact of evolution,
if we at the same time believe in the fact/of evolution. The
inconsistency, we may well reply, is all the'bther way, It is, in [a If,

 

(03

 




96 International”!"J‘Uurnaf‘-‘0f«Ethics »

fact, self—contradictory to hold that the validity of a belief dell“
pends in any way upon the manner in which it was acquired.
And hence the truth of our moral beliefs ﬁgst‘be independent
of any scientiﬁc facts. Just so, we may answer Matthew Arr“
nold: In order to verify the fact that righteous conduct is
rewarded, we must already know what righteous conduct is:
and to know that it is righteous is to know we ought to do it.

C i There is, therefore, no more evidence for moral than for re?
ligious beliefs; and the religious believer may be tempted to
say, “I have as much right to my belief that God exists, as you
have to any of your moral beliefs.” But this claim, it should be
pointed out, refutes itself. For his assertion that he has “as
much right” to believe in God is itself a moral judgment. It
can only rest upon the moral principle that necessity will jusf‘
tify beliefs: and this principle must have a prior validity to that
of any particular instances which may be brought under it. The
believer is therefore admitting thatthere is one moral principle
to which he has more right than to his belief in God: It must
be true, according to him, that necessity is a moral justiﬁcation,
whether his belief in God is so justiﬁed or not. In fact he can?“
not attempt to £15334 his belief in God except by a moral judg-é" “
ment ;‘ and by so doing he gives up the supposed parity between
moral and religious beliefs in general, although it may still be
true that such paritv exists between religious belief and @951.
moral judgments. '

*‘ i It remains true, however, that if .a man really cannot help
believing in God, nothing can be said against him. But I very
much doubt whether this is often the case. With most believ?
ers,‘I think, the disparity between their moral and their relig-F
ious convictions is much more striking. Their religious belief
gains much of its strength from the fact that they think they
ought to have it. They have a direct moral feeling that it is
wicked to doubt of God’s existence; and without this belief,
which is a strong one,,their direct religious certainty would
offer but a weak resistance to scepticism. For such persons the
ﬁnal question arises: Are they right in thinking that inﬁdelity
is wicked? “'

if?- ‘g Now they can no longer urge in defence of this opinion that
belief in God is good, because it is true. On the contrary it is fat 4

'64

 

 

 

 




The"*“V”c‘i‘fi2“é""”6“f‘""‘Réligion”. we?

only because they believe itpto be good that they hold it to be
true. They must therefore rest their claim to its goodness
solely upon its effects; and in the inquiry whether its effects
are good, they must, as I pointed out above, carefully discount
the vicious tendency to think the effects must be good, on the
ground that the belief is true. They should bear in mind that
the belief is possibly false; and that, if they shall decide that
its effects are good, they will be committed to the theory that all
this good is possibly a result of mere error.
’7' i Now whether they are or are not the better, the more Strongly
they believe that God existsde no longer a matter to dogmatize
‘ upon. The manners in which religious belief may act on differ?
ent minds are inﬁnitely various. But I think there is at least
good room to doubt whether it ever does much good. That
there is a power who is willing and able to help you would be,
no doubt, an encouraging thought. But from this, if our arguiéw
ment holds, our believers are in any case excluded. God can-37'"
not interfere in the course of natural events. This belief,
which has played such a large part in the religions of the past,
is demonstrably untrue. At most, then, the encouragement
must come from the knowledge that he sympathizes with us.
.And this is certainly no small comfort. But how are we to get
it? We are faced by this dilemma. The encouragement will
only be strong in proportion to our belief..\ But, on the other
hand, our efforts to strengthen this belief are only too likely to
fail, if we do not ﬁnd we get the encouragement. That this dif-E“*
- ﬁculty is a real one I think most people for whom the present
question has been raised, will acknowledge. That consolation,
.‘or the sake of which they desire to believe, must be already
felt, before they can acquire it. They desire to “see that the
Lord is good,” in order that‘they may “taste” it; but on the
other hand, unless they ﬁrst do taste it, they cannot 'get to see it.
It may well be urged that it would be better to give up this
>' fruitless endeavor; especially when we consider that in so far
they—beheve-thatﬁodﬁastsﬁsmlongemmattertﬁdﬁgmaﬁie )
_ as they succeed, they are deliberately acquiri/ng a belief, which,
' for all they know, is false. -

i 7‘ And moreover, I agree with Matthew Arnold that a more
important element in religion than this is the belief that the ',

. 7 ,, {:H A

to;

 




W‘ In‘terna'tiﬁnﬁl“ Journal-”67‘“Ethics.“ *

good will triumph. If we could rest in this belief, we might
surely give up the belief in God, and yet get all the comfort that
we needed. But for this belief also I am afraid we have no
reason. That Good will triumph as that God exists is possible
but only possible. Matthew Arnold’s God, too, is not, as he
thought, veriﬁable. Naturalism, as Mr. Balfour argues, does
fail to verify him. We have reason to believe that human life
upon this planet will presently be extinguished. We certainly
have no reason to believe the contrary; nor yet that our souls
will persist and grow better after death. ‘

I, But though our belief in this God fails us too, I think it may .
be doubted whether we may not still retain the very elements
which have rendered religion most effective for good in the

past. They are in fact elements which have no logical connec?
tion with belief in God.

"in: g (I) First, there is that valuable element in religious emofi
tion, which proceeds from the contemplation of what we think
to be most truly and perfectly good. We are indeed‘only enti-i’“
tled to think of this as what ought to be; not as what is or will
be. But I doubt if this emotion need lose much of its force,
because its object is not real. The effects of literature show
how strongly we may be moved by the contemplation of ideal
objects, of which we nevertheless do not assert the existence.
It may indeed be doubted whether the most effective part in all
religious belief has not always been similar to that which we
have in objects of imaginationgg-Fa belief quite consistent with a
ﬁrm conviction that they are not facts. (2) And secondly, that
some good objects should be real, is indeed necessary for our
comfort. But these we have in plenty. It surely might be bet?
ter to give up the search for a God whose existence is and re?"
mains undemonstrable, and to divert the feelings which the
religious wish to spend on him, towards those of our own kind,
who though perhaps less good than we can imagine God to be,
are worthy of all the affections that we can feel; and whose
help and sympathy are much more certainly real. We might
perhaps with advantage worship the real creature a little more,
and his hypothetical Creator a good deal less.

W

W'FACWCOLLEGEy'GKM‘BRfDGEi-t '

MK

‘1’; a» «£3» J Lidia» "'

‘IN

‘ .
‘3 , t
\ . . . \ ,. n _
g , 3‘ -. . .-- .‘_ \ ,

 

 

 

 

 




