 

 

 

 

 

The

Teacher’s Helper

IN

Humane Education

BY

FRANCIS H. RO‘VLEY

PRESIDENT OF

The American Humane Educaﬁon Society

180 LONGWOOD AVENUE
BOSTON, MASS.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




Was Founded In

Boston, Massachusetts

In 1889 By

 

THE AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY

GEORGE THORNDIKE ANGELL

Its work reaches into every State in the

' Its Ofﬁcers Are

Union and into nearly every country on the Globe.

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

EBEN. SHUTE, Treasurer
GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

Its Foreign Representatives Are

Nicasia Zulaica C.

Mrs. Jeannette Ryder

Touﬁk Chamie . .'

Mrs. Florence H. Suckling .

Edward Fox Sainsbury

William B. Allison

Mrs. Lillian Kohler .

Mrs. Mary P. E. Nitobe .

Mrs. Marie C. E. Houghton

Mrs. Francisco Patxot

W. Clint . . .

Mrs. Alice W. Manning .

Jerome Perinet, Introducteur des
Bands of Mercy en Europe

D. D. Fitch .

Chile

Cuba
Damascus, Syria
England
France
Guatemala
Jamaica
Japan
Madeira
Porto Rico
Quebec
Turkey

Switzerland
Venezuela

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

EARLY LESSONS IN KINDNESS OR CRUELTY

“THOUGHTLESS and unfeeling conduct,” says Mrs. Mary F. Lovell, “which
rapidly develops into downright cruelty, is exercised ﬁrst and most largely
toward the brute creation, because of its helplessness and the larger opportunity.
It may begin very early. An innocent baby will, in his exuberant happiness,
squeeze a poor kitten nearly to death, and try to put his ﬁngers into its eyes; but
the baby’s innocence is no reason for allowing him a pastime which gives pain to
a living creature. The kitten has rights which even a baby can be taught to re-
spect; and the baby has the right to an early training which will make him, by
and by, a benevolent and humane member of society, and not a selﬁsh and
thoughtless one.”

From the societies for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children we can learn
how often little children are cruelly treated by those who ought to protect them.
It is but a natural sequence. When the father was a baby he tormented the
kitten; as boy he abused the dog; as larger boy he bullied the smaller one, and
as husband and father he tyrannizes over wife and children. He has never learned
to control his temper; he has never known what it was to protect the weak; he
has never learned to regard the feelings of others—what can you expect of him
now? The child’s sense of justice is keen, and he knows when he is punished
simply because father or mother is in a temper and must vent it upon something.

1

 

 




 

IS it any wonder, then, that the child grows surly and resentful; that he learns
readily to deceive, and that the life of the father is repeated over again in the

1 ' p
Cﬂﬂd' Baby’s Earliest Lessons

Baby stretches out his little hand for the fly buzzing on the window-pane,
and laughs and crows with delight as he crushes it in his tiny fist. These ﬁrst
destructive instincts should be checked then and there. If baby is old enough
to have those instincts developed, he is old enough to be restrained from them.

Another writer says: “I know of a baby fourteen months old who has been
taught not to touch flowers, but only to smell them; and not to touch the cat,
although he is perfectly delighted with her. After a while, when he is old enough
to understand, he will be allowed to touch her very gently; and he will be much
more likely to always treat animals kindly and gently than if he had been allowed
to handle the cat or other pets as he would a toy that squeaked when it was

mehed' Toys Are Teachers

Many a mother gives all unconsciously to her child his ﬁrst lesson in cruelty.
Baby is seated upon the rocking-horse, a whip placed in his little hands, and he
is told, “New, whip the old horse and make him go.” Katie is teasing the cat and
making her cry, and the mother says, “Don’t pull the pussy, she will scratch you.”
Tommy is pinching the dog to see him squirm, and she says, “Don’t hurt Rover,
Tommy, he might bite you.” Oh, mother, do you realize that you are teaching
your child that there is no harm in inﬂicting suffering upon anything provided he
is not himself hurt by it? Johnny starts to run across the room, trips over a chair
and bumps his nose on the floor. Johnny cries and his mother says, “Naughty
chair, to make johnnyvhurt himself; beat the old chair,” and she immediately
proceeds to administer condign punishment to the unoffending chair. She is
teaching the child that instead of controlling his temper, he must give full vent to
it, and that if he is hurt, instead of bearing it with fortitude, he must revenge
himself upon something, whether innocent or guilty. “That will be the result of
such a training? . . .

Most children do not mean to be unkind to their pets; it is thoughtless igno-
rance that makes them treat them as they do. . . . The rubber toy dog squeals
when it is squeezed, so why should not the kitten do the same? The child makes
no distinction between them, because the mother has never taught him that the
dumb creatures suffer, and has never brought home to him the thought: “HOW
would you like to have some one do that to you?”

No Whips, Guns nor Swords

Do not place in the hands of your child such toys as whips, guns, and swords,
but teach him rather that needless wars and cruelty are crimes. Teach him to
ﬁnd delight in studying the birds with an opera—glass instead of shooting them,
and to take pleasure in feeding them rather than in robbing their nests. There is
no surer way to teach a child to be unselﬁsh and thoughtful for others than to make
_ him considerate of the feelings of his pets; yet this fact often seems to be utterly
lost sight of in the training of many children.

, —-—»»—~ 4—».._...--. ...W--.-\....- ...~_._--_..,\~ -.




Parent Strikes Child, Child Strikes Smaller Brother or Sister

The following incident which took place on a railway train illustrates another
way in which some mothers unconsciously give to their children lessons which
will develop results they little dream of. The gentleman who told the story said
that it reminded him forcibly of what we are all too apt to forget—that our chil—
dren do as we do, rather than as we tell them. He said: “On the two seats in front
of me sat a mother and three children, aged about three, ﬁve and eight years. They
had evidently been traveling a long distance and were thoroughly tired out. The
oldest, a boy, was twisting about in his seat after his mother (evidently anxious
that he should behave well) had told him to sit still. Out of patience, she hit him
a sharp blow on the leg, which made him cry a little, after which he sat with a
sullen look on his face, evidently feeling the injustice of his punishment. In a
few moments his little brother did something that displeased him and he imme-
diately gave him a slap in perfect imitation of what had been done to him. This
action received a very slight reproof. I felt strongly tempted to talk pleasantly
with the mother and try to show her the inevitable result of such treatment. I
have been very sorry ever since that I did not, for I believe that every mother really
wishes to do the best that can be done for her children.”

The Tender—hearted Are Strong

We must give more attention to developing tenderness of heart, since we
all know that the strongest, noblest man is he who unites with that strength ten—
derness and pity for the weak things of earth. Teach the child to be brave and
strong, for to protect the weak and helpless often requires great moral courage.
Teach him that it is cowardly to abuse any being weaker than himself, and that
he must reSpect the rights of every creature. Teach him never to ﬁnd his pleasure
at the expense of another’s pain and to love and protect whatever is dependent
upon him. Think you that a child so nurtured could deal harshly with wife and
children when grown to man’s estate, or spend his earnings in the bar—room when
his family were suffering for food? Show the children what an immense amount
of happiness they gain for themselves in the love and devotion won from their
four-footed friends, and Open out before them an endless ﬁeld of interest in the study
of the wonders of the animal creation. Teach them that dumb creatures feel and
suffer; that they have intelligence, that they have hearts full of faithful affection
for us, if we are only willing to receive it.

0 loving mother, put your child into the arms of Old Mother Nature and let
her ﬁll his heart with pure and innocent and holy thoughts! Teach the little
one to love the woods and the ﬁelds, the ﬂowers and the birds, and to call his horse
and his dog his friends, and you have added to his capacity for happiness a thousand
fold. Give him a glimpse of the wonders to be seen in the study of the animal
creation, and you have opened out before him a ﬁeld of interest and'pleasure which
a lifetime cannot exhaust. There is no surer safeguard you can give your boy
than to send him into the world with this love of Nature ﬁlling his heart. He has
learned to “look through Nature up to Nature’s God,” and to know the Creator,
not as an abstract being, but as a living, breathing Presence. The man whose

3

 

 

 




 

4.-.”. “4‘ A— A A

heart has been thus kept pure and tender, whose soul is ﬁlled with divine love and
compassion for the suffering dumb creatures whom he calls his friends, can never
become hardened in sin; it would be a moral impossibility—A dapled from “The

M otlzer’s N msery Guide.”
Quick to Learn

A pugnacious little boy, not yet three years old, was reproved by his mother
for some fault, and at last, as he continued to disobey her, was soundly punished.
A few minutes later the child was seen beating his pet dog in a similar manner,
just for amusement. He had felt the strong hand of might, not of love, controlling
him, and exercised the same power over his inferior as soon as he had an oppor-
tunity. He is in excellent training to become a tyrant in the future—Tile Laws

of Life.
Which is the Better Way?

How many of us, when we come into collision with another, think that he also
may be hurt? A little boy bumped his head against the wall,___.gi’nd ran to his mother
crying to be kissed. She said: “What a bad wall to hurt poor “Tillie! Go hit the
wall!” Another day he bumped his head against a little playmate, and at once
struck him to punish the injury.

Another child, with a wiser mother, ,had been better taught, and when he
fell against his little playmate, and they both got hurt, he said: “Kiss Harry, too.”
Which is the better way, and which child will be more likely to grow up kind and
considerate in all the relations of life?

Corporal Punishment

The faults of little children which the parent seeks to correct with corporal
punishment are largely the result of ignorance, accident, or the wrong point of
view of the parent.

Corporal punishment by teachers is far less frequent than formerly, though
many parents still claim they have the right to inﬂict it upon their own children.
Slowly the race advances to higher standards both for parents and teachers.

Thoughtful persons trace a relation through the following series, viz.: slap-
ping the hands of babies; spanking children; whipping large children (the strong
taking advantage of the weak); disregard of the rights of others in the family,
in business, in society; in ﬂogging, in capital punishment, in ﬁghting on the battle—
ﬁeld. Shall we plant the seeds of kindness, or of cruelty? As we sow, so shall

We reap.

 

James Eddy said, “Kind and loving parents are the agents and representa-
tives of our Divine Father.” It is through the parents that the ﬁrst idea of religion
dawns within the child’s mind. When the baby who has learned to have love and
conﬁdence in the mother through whom he has drawn his life ﬁrst sees her hand
lifted to hurt him, moral and spiritual injury must result.

 

 

 

Published by THE AMERICAN HUNIANE EDUCATION SOCIETY, 180 Longwood Avenue,
Boston, lVIass. Dr. Francis H. Rowley, President; Guy Richardson, Secretary.

Price, 5 cents per dozen, or 40 cents per hundred, postpaid.

4

 

 

 

 

 




       
    
   
   
   

The

 

Teacher’s Helper

IN

Humane Education

 

BY

FRANCIS H. ROWLEY

PRESIDENT OF

The American Humane Education Society

Copyright, 1920, by

The American Humane Education Society

 

180 LONGVVOOD AVENUE
BOSTON, MASS.

 

 




Endorsements of The Teacher’s Helper

Before publishing The Teacher’s Helper we submitted the
manuscript to the following well-known educators for an expression
ﬂf Opinion as to its value to teachers. We give their letters:

l

From the Hon. P. P. Claxton, U. S. Commissioner of Education

is I wish to thank you for letting me see a c0py of the manuscript of the pro-
posed leaﬂet entitled “The Teacher’s Helper in Humane Education,” prepared
by the American Humane Education Society.

, The efforts of the American Humane Education Society to promote humane

{ education in the public schools and to assist teachers with suggestions for lessons

3 and special programs are highly commendable. The publication of this leaﬂet

should be very valuable in this respect.

From Dr. F. E. Spaulding, Chairman Department of Education, Yale University

Your “Teacher’s Helper in Humane Education” impresses me most favorably.
It presents the subject clearly, helpfully, and suggestively. It will be of great
practical assistance to teachers. I heartily approve both the form and the
substance.

With all good wishes for the continued success of your important work.

From Dr. Charles H. Judd, Department of Education, The University of Chicago

_I have read the proposed pamphlet on Humane Education and am quite
willing to have you use my name as endorsing the same.

 

From Dr. G. D. Strayer, Teachers’ College, Columbia Unii'ersity, New York

I have read with much interest the manuscript entitled “The Teacher’s
Helper in Humane Education.”
I am glad to tell you that I thoroughly approve of it and believe that it will
IS)e helpful if printed and placed in the hands of teachers throughout the United
tates.

From Susan M. Dorsey, Superintendent of Schools, Los Angeles, Cal.

Enclosed please ﬁnd the manuscript recently submitted to me for review.
I have read it with some care and wish to add my testimony to that of others as
to the availability of this material for use in the schools in the interests of humane
education. I especially commend the Bibliography.

From Annie Webb Blanton, State Superintendent of Schools, Texas

I have gone over the outline of the pamphlet which you send and it seems
to me that this would be of great value to the teacher in carrying out our state
law. If this pamphlet is published, I shall be glad to place supplies of it in the
hands of our city and county superintendents with the request that a copy be
given to each teacher.

From Fred M. Hunter, Superintendent of Schools, Oakland, Cal.

Mr. Hunter has requested me to reply to your letter, dated December 7,

and to say that he is vitally interested in the cause that you represent. Your

‘ syllabus, “The Teacher’s Helper,” proved to be very interesting and should be
_, quite helpful to teachers. -

,x' ‘From Payson Smith, Commissioner of, Education for Alassachusetts

/ I have been carefully over the enclosed material and am glad to say that

the subject of humane education seems to me to be presented in a helpful and
sympathetic way.

 




HUMANE EDUCATION

 

‘Vhat It Is and How to Teach It

 

E

3’

What Is Humane Education?

It is the awakening and fostering, particularly in the mind
of the child, of those principles of justice, fair play, and kindness
toward every form of life human and sub—human, capable of
suffering, without which. there can be no character worthy of
citizenship in a free state.

What Is the Object of The American Humane

Education Society?

By humane education to stOp all, forms of cruelty both to
human beings and the lower animals. '7

To this end it would quicken in our colleges, schools and eISe-
where that spirit of chivalry and humanity which shall ﬁnally
,1 end all ; wars, prevent lawlessness, anarchy and crime; Peace ”on
earth and goodwill to. every living creature—this is its goaL
/ / (fj/ch W W

xx

WWW”

 




 

 

 

 

4 THE TEACHER’S HELPER

 

"“74/1‘0 the Teacher

Into the hands of the teachers in Our schools is committed
as into the hands of no others the nation’s future. Tens of
thousands of children, unreached by church and Sunday school,
are in our public schools. Multitudes of them are from homes
where little Opportunity is found for instruction in the things that
mean most for conduct and character. These bring to the teacher
the supreme Opportunity.

The teacher’s task seems often a hard, monotonous, thankless
one. It has never been fully appreciated. Nevertheless, the
teacher is the mightiest human force, next to the home, in deter-
mining the destiny of the world.

Anatole France, in opening his heart to a congress of teachers
at Tours, said, “In developing the child you will determine the
future. In the social and moral disorder created by the war and
perpetuated by the peace which has followed it, you have every—
thing to do, everything to rebuild.”

This is true of the teacher in this country to a far greater extent
than most of us realize. To this kindly and wise man the danger
in our present education is that “implanting the thought of war
in the mind of the child will keep war in the world.” Therefore
he would banish from our schools everything that makes children
love war. “Burn,” he pleads, “all the bQQkS—Lhiﬁh teach hatred;
exalt loveggﬁﬁbrk.”

The teacher may be a machine, a professional in education,
or a living, quickening soul, infusing his or her own spirit into the
spirit of the pupil, working upon the character of the pupil as the
sun works upon the seed, ..I_h§.pl§EEz£1}_§ ﬂower.




 

IN HUMANE EDUCATION 5 7

 

Why Is This Work Worth While? a a.

Many educators have said that in their experience nothing
has proved so real a power in shaping the character of their pupils
in justice toward each other, in cultivating a ﬁne moral sense, in
compelling fair and kind treatment of their human fellows, as
teaching concerning their relation to defenseless animals.

/ The San Francisco Call published the following some time ago:

/ One Band of lWercy in San F rancisco*

PeOple in the Jefferson School district, which has its centre
near First and T ehama streets, are frequently heard to remark the
change that has come over the spirit of the locality. A few years
ago a Chinaman was unsafe thereabout. If he wasn’t forced into
unequal hand-to—hand battle he was pelted with stones. Woe to
the stray dog or cat which ran into the territory of the young
barbarians south of Market street.

Today the jeﬁerson School is one of the most orderly in all the
city. The children don’t ﬁght as they used to; they don’t stone cats,
or tie tin cans to the tails of dogs, or molest the sons of the Flowery
Kingdom. And why? Because every school child down that way,
as soon as he is old enough to write his name, is made a member
of an army for the prevention of all the old evils, and no blue- '
frocked, brass-buttoned guardian of the peace could ever have
done a tithe of the good that those children have accompliShed.
For the last four years the principal of the Jefferson School, Miss
M. M. Murphy, has been organizing the pupils of all the various
classes into Bands of Mercy, and although at ﬁrst the idea was
combated in the district, it has gradually increased in popularity
until now every child seems proud of his enrollment. There are
about 350 members in the organization today, and each of them
takes the Band of Mercy pledge.

*An ofﬁcer of the American Humane Education Society Visited Miss M. M.
Murphy, who conﬁrmed this report taken from the San Francisco Call. Miss
Murphy said it was literally true.

 




 

 

 

 

6 THE TEACHER’s HELPER

What’s the Psychology of It?

‘—

The child seems naturally more interested in animals than in
pe0ple.

It is easy to awaken in the heart of a child the sense of justice
toward a defenseless animal unable to voice its sufferings and
wrongs. Its appeal stirs an elemental characteristic of human
nature. Once awakened in the child toward the animal, this
sense of justice naturally makes itself felt when a human being’s
rights are invaded or his just claims denied.

For the Child’s Sake

I“, - d.)
w'ﬂ—r'“

Many think humane education is simply in the interests of
animals, that we are seeking entrance to the schools only for their
sakes. No. It is the child’s welfare that we seek primarily.
Whatever has been gained for the animals by the whole humane
movement through the centuries, vastly more has been gained for
mankind in the development of character. The reaction upon
human character of obedience to the spirit of justice, kindness and

compassion has done inﬁnitely more to beneﬁt humanity, to enlarge

its vision, to quicken its sympathies, to enrich its life, than it has
done to relieve the sufferings of animals. We do not hesitate to say
that nothing so vital to the deveIOpment of the character of child-
hood and the future well—being of the state is brought into "the
school-room as that which, rightly and broadly understood, we call
humane education. The ennoblz’ng 0f the character of the child is
the fundamental thing it seeks.




 

IN HUMANE EDUCATION 7

 

Y What Is the Band of Mercy Idea?

It had its origin in England. Its author was Mrs. Catharine
Smithies. It was after his return from England, where he had
visited Mrs. Smithies, that George Thorndike Angell founded the
ﬁrst Band of Mercy in this country in BOston, Mass. This was
in 1882. The Governor of the State was a member together with
several judges and a number of leading citizens.

Its purpose has been chieﬂy, through the public schools, to
organize the children of the various departments or rooms into
Bands; the plan being that, either by the teacher in the class-room,
or by the meeting of the Bands by themselves, or by both, the
principles of humane education should become an integral part
of the pupils’ lives.

More than four million children have been gathered into these
Bands.

// Organizing A Band of Mercy Not a Necessity

( Humane Education in the class-room can be carried on by
he teacher in whatever way may seem to him or her mOst effective;
The advantage in organizing the room into a Band (with the pupils
in more advanced grades it could be called a Junior Humane League
or Club) is that whenever the American Humane Education Society
is notiﬁed of the organization of such a group, numbering twenty
or more, it sends free a c0py of its magazine, 0m Dumb Animals,
for a year, and literature which can be used to make the meetings
of the Band or League or Club interesting, and which can also be
used in the class-room.

 




 

 

 

8 THE TEACHER’S HELPER

 

How to Form a Band of Rierey or a Junior Humane League*

\/ After talking it over with the pupils the teacher may suggest

/

the following:

Resolved that we will form a Band of Mercy, or a Junior
Humane League, which shall be known as the (any name may be
chosen) Band of Mercy, or Junior Humane League; e. g., the
Audubon, or the Bird Lovers’, or the Henry Bergh, or the Angell,
or the California Band; or the name of the school, or of some
prominent citizen interested in animals may be used. _

. The teacher may be chosen president, or, if she prefer, some
member of the class, also a secretary may be chosen from the class.
Meetings may be held weekly, or monthly, at which times the
program may consist of music, readings, recitations, anecdotes or
brief addresses relating to kindness to all, and particularly to

“ animals.

Or the Band or League may be considered to be in session
whenever the teacher devotes a few minutes to the subject of
humane education. '

Membership is conditional only upon assenting to the pledge.

*Humane Education is as necessary in the High School as in the lower
grades. “7 e would always, however, have the pupils of the High School organized
into Humane Leagues.

The Cost

It costs nothing. All that is required is the simple promise:
I will 1773776 leakiiidwlb/all living crealures, and My l0 prolecl them from
cruel usage.

Membership

Any person may become a member by taking the above pledge,
publicly or privately.

 

 




 

IN HUMANE EDUCATION 9

 

How Best Diay the Teacher Do This Wrork, With or Without

a Band of Mercy or a Junior Humane League

1. By the teacher and pupils repeating once a week the

(/ Here are some of the ways:

pledge of the Band of Mercy.

2. By keeping some appropriate, but brief, humane senti-
ment always upon the blackboard of the school-room, changing
the sentence when it has become thoroughly ﬁxed in the pupils’
minds so that it can be repeated from memory.

3. By recounting frequently some incident observed by the
teacher in which an animal was treated kindly or unkindly, and
by having the pupils relate such incidents as have come under
their observation.

4. By reading to the pupils from time to time some short
animal story. These can always be found in Our Dumb Animals,
sent free to every Band of Mercy, in other humane journals and
books, in the newspapers, and often in books that treat of animals.

5. By having some pupil select for a declarnation a choice
bit of prose or poetry which has to do with animal life; by asking
for practice in composition that such tOpics be chosen as are sug-
gested a little farther on.

6. By occasionally asking some friend of animals to drOp
into the school-room and give the pupils a ten minutes’ talk.

7 . By keeping in the school-room an attractive animal
picture.

8. By having an honor roll upon which the names will be
placed of those pupils who can name and identify the largest number
of birds as the result of personal observation.

9. By an occasional ten minutes’ talk given by the teacher
on the great characters in the history of the humane movement:
Plutarch, St. Francis of Assisi, Jeremy Bentham, Richard Martin,
Henry Bergh, George Thorndike Angell.

 

 




“ W A2 & M/i—M
/%%Z//4, W” "

10 THE TEACHER’s HELPER

 

 

K Two Teachers Write Us
One says:

My method of teaching kindness to animals has the advantage

of in no way interfering with the regular routine of my school.

Two days in the week all Our lessons are conducted with reference

to this subject. For instance, in the reading-class, I choose a book i;
upon animals, and always ﬁnd time for useful instruction and ‘
good advice. My “c0pies” for writing are facts in natural history,
and they impress upon the pupils ideas of justice and kindness
towards useful animals.

In written exercises, in spelling and composition, I teach the
good care which should be taken of domestic animals, and the
kindness which should be shown them. I prove that, by not
overworking them, and by keeping them in clean and roomy stables,
feeding them well, and treating them kindly and gently, a greater
proﬁt and larger crOps may be obtained than by abusing them.
I also speak, in this connection, of certain small animals which,
although in a wild state, are very useful to farmers. -

In arithmetic, I give examples in domestic and rural economy,
and thus show the children, in exact ﬁgures, the amount which may
be made by farming when animals are kindly treated.

, The results of my instruction have been, and are, exceedingly
satisfactory. My ideas have deeply impressed my pupils, and
have exercised the best inﬂuence upon their lives and characters.
Ever since I introduced the subject into my school, I have found °
the children less disorderly, but, instead, more gentle and affec-
tionate towards each other. They feel more and more kindly
towards animals, and have entirely given up the cruel practice of
robbing nests and killing small birds. They are touched by the
suffering and misery of animals and the pain which they feel when

' they see them cruelly used has been the means of exciting other
persons to pity and compassion.

 

 

 




’ W/z/Z m ”(W/Cf ,5‘
M M — M ”

 

IN HUMANE EDUCATION 11

 

 

 

 

Another says:

Methods of Teaching. Teach by means of talks, stories,
reading, pictures and songs. Encourage the children to tell inci-
dents of their own or others’ kindness to animals, of suffering caused
by neglect or thoughtlessness; do not read stories of cruelty, but
dwell rather on the happiness that children can give animals.

The teacher or humane instructor cannot rely upon any single
text—book, but will draw help and inspiration from, and impart
instruction by, pictures, stories, poems, and songs. More impor-
tant than all else is it to enlist the active interest of the children
in the animals they see in their daily life.

Riottoes and Themes for the Blackboard X/

Animals Have Rights as Well as People.

Birds Are the Farmers’ Helpers.

The Massachusetts Department of Agriculture Once Announced
that Every Toad Is Worth Twenty Dollars a Year to the
State as an Insect Destroyer. '

Cruelty Is the Meanest of Crimes.

Hast Thou Named All the Birds Without a Gun?

Without Kindness There Can Be No True Joy.

Cultivate the Art of Being Kind.

Protect the Weak and Dumb.

You Never Lose by Doing a Kind Act.

Three Things to Learn—Kindness, Justice, and Mercy.

Do the Kindest Deed You CanToday.

.Be a Friend to Every F riendless Beast.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

12 THE TEACHER’S HELPER

 

 

 

 

A Great Englishman Once Said: “Compassion and Love for
Animals Secures in the Heart Compassion and Love for Men
and God.”

The Bravest Are the Tenderest; the Loving Are the Daring.

Kindness Is a Language that Even the Dumb Can Speak and the
Deaf Can Understand.

Cowards Are Cruel, but the Brave Love Mercy and Delight to
Save.

It Is Estimated that Birds Save for Agricultural Pursuits Alone,

/ Saying Nothing of What They Do for Our Forests, Annually,

/ One Hundred Million Dollars in the United States.

Cease to Be Cruel, Try to Be Kind.

Be Gentle and Patient with Dumb Animals.
Protect the Defenseless.

Open Thy Mouth for the Dumb.

If We Were Deprived of the Services of Birds the Earth Would

Soon Become Uninhabitable.
Be Kind to Animals.
1/" Blessed Are the Merciful.
Kindness Is the Supreme Virtue; Cruelty the Supreme Vice.
Make the World Happier Because You Lived in It.

You Should Treat Your Horse as You Would Like to Be Treated
if You Were a Horse. .

The Pig Is not Only One of the Most Intelligent, but Naturally the
Cleanest of All Domestic Animals. Filthy Surroundings,
Garbage, and Other Impure Food and Lack of Exercise Are
Responsible for Most of His Diseases.

All Life Is Sacred. It Is Enough to Kill for Necessity; to Slay for

Pleasure Is Barbarous.
' All Cruelty Degrades the Person Who Practises It.
/ He Who Is Not Actively Kind Is Cruel.
“Do Unto Others as You Would That They Should Do to You.”
Every Living Creature Has Its Special Work to Do in the
World.

v,




 

IN HUMANE EDUCATION

13

 

Selections for Declamation

Eulogy on the Dog .

Senator Vest

The Arab and His Horse Bayard Taylor
To My Dog, Blanco Holland
Dying in Harness . . O’Reilly

The Bloodless Sportsman . . Foss

The Voice of the Voiceless . . Wilcox

The Emperor’s Bird’s Nest . . Longfellow
Christmas in Norway . . . Thaxter

To a Water-F owl . . . . Bryant

Don’t Shoot . . . . . Wilcox
Petition for the Birds . . . Senator Hoar

Subjects Suggested for Older Pupils and Talks by Teachers
That May Be Followed by Compositions by Younger
Pupils

LOWER GRADES

Some Pets That I Have Had.

Ways to Help Wild Birds.

Stray Animals That I Have Helped.
The Squirrels in the Park.

The Story of My Dog.

Why It Is Cruel to Destroy Birds’ Eggs and Nests.
How to Tell Some Kinds of Birds.
Animals That Work for Man.

Why We Should Try to Save the Birds.
The Pets We Have at Home.

Some Birds That I Know.

7“.-. .-‘._.. .ﬂnwwosr .. HUN .l

 




 

14 THE TEACHER’s HELPER

 

' AKW,’ INTERMEDIATE GRADES
Building Bird’ Houses.
Why We Should Feed the Birds in Winter.
The Usefulness of Toads.
Ways of Attracting the Wild Birds.
What Work Horses Do for Us Daily.
Animals Most Useful to Man.
What I Learned from Reading “Black Beauty.”
What Boy Scouts Can Do for Animals.
The Cruelty in Air-Guns and Sling-Shots.
Dumb Animals and What We Owe to Them.
What Our Band of Mercy Is Doing for Animals.
The Cruelty in Catching Animals in Steel Traps.
What We Can Do to Increase the Birds.

\L HIGHER GRADES

Our Domestic Animals and What We Owe Them.

What Has the Horse Done for Man?

The Famous War Horses of the World.

Man’s Debt to the Cow.

Man’s Debt to the Sheep, etc.

Shall We Capture and Cage Wild Animals?

What Are Some of the Cruelties of the Zoological Park?
What Is the Jack London Club?

Why Must Cruelty Be Practised in Compelling the Most of
the Trick Animals to Perform Their Tricks?

What Is the Best Way to St0p Trained-Animal Performances?
How the Wild Birds Help the Farmer.

What It Means to Be Humane.

Useful Dogs.

How to Identify the Common Birds.

Sketch of the Life of George T. Angell.

Cruelty in Wearing Dead Birds or Wings.

A Short History of the Bands of Mercy.

 




 

IN HUMAN E EDUCATION 15

 

 

/ -

/ Acts of Kindness to Animals That I Have Seen.

2;

Some Ways of Making Animals Happy.

The Birds as Insect Destroyers.

Why It Pays to Be Kind to Animals.

What We Can Do to Prevent Cruelty.

Famous Horses and Dogs.

Why We Celebrate “Humane Day” in the Schools.
Beneﬁts We Receive From Animals.

By What Methods Are the Animals Whose Flesh We Eat
Destroyed; and Why Are Many of These Methods Cruel?

What Kind of Death Do We Owe the Animals Whose Flesh
We Eat? If a Painless One, How Can We Accomplish It?

Why a Public Abattoir?
The Cruelties of the Steel Trap.

//~ The Best Humane Short Stories
>\ for

Teachers’ Use

The Story of Barry.

The Dogs of St. Bernard.

Sir Walter Scott and His Dogs.

Rosa Bonheur, Painter of Animal Pictures.
Abraham Lincoln’s Kindness to Animals. >
Charles Kingsley and His Pets.

Story of Greyfriars’ Bobby.

Daniel Webster and the Woodchuck.

St. Francis and the Birds.

Story of Owney, the Postal Dog.

Story of the Bell of Atri.

Audubon and the Birds.

Louis Agassiz, the Great Teacher.

For condensations of these stories, made by William M. Morrill for the

American Humane Education Society, see pages 19 to 31.

 




 

7/www '-

 

16 THE TEACHER’S HELPER

 

Y Books on Animals

Bird Friends Trafton
*Our Friend the Dog Maeterlr'nck
*Bob, Son of Battle Ollivarzt
Greyfriars’ Bobby Atkinson
Black Beauty 5610611
*The Horses of Homer Rowley
Friends and Helpers Eddy

Heroes and Greathearts and
Their Animal Friends Dane

*Our Dooryard Friends Pruesser

Famous Four-footed Friends Harvey

 

*The Bird Study Book Pearson
*Wild Bird Guests Baynes
The Child’s Natural History

*The Works of Henri Fabre—
the Homer of the Insects

 

Ameriw Deming
*A Dog of Flanders Ouida
Stories of Brave Dogs Carter
Bird World Stickney
Our Humble Helpers, etc. ‘ Fabre

*The Fireside Sphinx (2 £6“ Repplz’er

*Famous Pictures of Real

Animals Bryant
Beautiful Joe Saunders
*In Beaver World Mills

:Songs of Hnapp‘ymliife

*For Older Pupils.

Houghton Mifﬂin Co., Boston
Dodd, Mead & Co., New York
A. L. Burt Co., New York

Harper 8: Brothers, New York

American Humane Education
Soc1ety, Boston

Ginn 8: Company, Boston

D. C. Heath & Co., Boston
The Platform, Chicago ‘

Robert M. McBride & Co.,
New York

Doubleday, Page & Co., New York
E. P. Dutton & Co., New York
De Wolfe, Fiske & Co., Boston

Dodd, Mead & Co., New York

Frederick A. Stokes Co.,
New York

Houghton Mifﬂin Co., Boston
The Century Co., New York
Ginn & Co., Boston

The Century Co., New York
Houghton Mifﬂin Co., Boston

John Lane Co., New York

American Baptist Publication
Society, Philadelphia

Houghton Mifﬂin Co., Boston

The Educational Publishing Co.,
Boston

 




5-”
v”

 

IN HUMANE EDUCATION 17

 

Books for Teachers

 

The Humane Movement McCrea

The Humane Idea Rowley

Manual of Moral and Humane

 

Education Krause
Animals’ Rights Salt
fﬂa/MVOICCS for the Speechless Firth
The Universal KinshiL Moore

 

The Place of Animals in

Human I bought Cesaresco

 

The New Ethics Moore
Every Living Creature ‘ Trine

Thoughts on Humane Edu—
cation Reynolds

Little Brother to the Bear Long
Billy and Hans Stillman
Billy Boy Long

W Our GWM

John of the Woods

_.. .-_..._ NW

The Columbia Press, New York

American Humane Education
Soc1ety, Boston

Atkinson-Mentser Publishing
Company, Chicago

G. Bell & Sons, Ltd., London
Houghton Mifﬂin Co., Boston
Charles H. Kerr & Co., Chicago

Chas. Scribner’s Sons, New York
S. A. Black, Chicago
Purdy Publishing Co., Chicago

Humane Publishing Co.,
Washington, D. C.

Ginn & Co., Boston

Dodd, Mead 8: Co., New York

American Humane Education
Soc1ety, Boston

] .
Saints and Friendly Beasts j/l bbie Farwell Houghton Mifﬂin Co., Boston

 

Curious Bookpiﬁinds. Brown _
.~.
Neighbors Unknown Chas. G. D. x v " ~~
' Roberz‘s Macmillan Co., New York
c Insect Stories Kellogg
W Our Four-Footed Friends Mrs. Hun/ing-
ton Smith Ginn & Co., Boston

-. —. ._A.. .-.—~ . "5.”.

 




 

18 THE TEACHER’S HELPER

Animals in Art and Sculpture

To be used by the teacher in school-room or class—room, the
most of which may be secured at small expense from the Perry
Pictures Company, Malden, Mass.

Pharaoh’s Horses . . . . . Herring
Horses at St. Mark’s, Venice
St. Francis Preaching to the Birds

The Lion of Lucerne . . . . . Thorwaldsen
Monarch of the Glen . . . . . Landseer
Shoeing the Bay Mare . . . . Landseer
The Sheepfold . . . . . . Jacque

The Newborn Calf . . . . . Millet
Weaning the Calves . . . . . Bonheur
The Horse Fair . . . . . . Bonheur
My Dogs . . . Landseer

Three Members of the Temperance Society Herring
The Highland Shepherd’s Chief Mourner Landseer

“Can’t You Talk”? . . . . . Holmes

Sheep . . . . . . . . Mauve

Cattle . . . . . . . . Potter

Little Foxes . . . . . . . Carter f
Thoroughbred . . . . . . Hardy
Morning in the Highlands . . . Bonheur ;
The Cat Family . . . . . ; Adam 1
Saved . . . . . . . Landseer 1

Waiting for Mistress . . . . . Landseer

 

 




 

 

IN HUMANE EDUCATION 19

 

The Best Humane Short Stories

FOR

Teachers’ Use

 

THE STORY OF BARRY \/

On the highest point of the Mountain Pass that leaves Martigny in the Valley of the
Rhone across the Great Bernard into Italy, there stands in a dreary solitude, shut in
by wild rugged mountains covered with eternal snow, the most elevated dwelling-place
in the Old World—the Hospice, or Inn, of St. Bernard. Ten or twelve monks reside
here in the midst of the most complete wilderness, where winter reigns eight or nine
months. The Hospice offers to everyone a refuge, with kindly help and care. The
monks are especially busy in winter time, when they go forth to seek and rescue the lost
wanderer. Every year many lives are saved through their endeavors. Specially trained
dogs accompany the monks or are sent out alone to search for those in danger.

Of all the intelligent and self—sacriﬁcing dogs of St. Bernard, Barry was the bravest
and saved the most lives. This grand old dog had saved the lives of forty persons and
was trying hard to rescue the forty-ﬁrst—an effort which cost him his own life. Here
is what happened:

Two travelers were lost in the Alps in a blinding snow-storm. One of them in his
extremity insisted that, as a last resort, he should have recourse to the brandy ﬂask.
His comrade urged upon him the folly of this, inasmuch as after a brief period of exhila-
ration, the reaction would leave him in a worse condition than before. Refusing the
advice of his friend, he drank heavily, and after forging ahead for a short distance,
became utterly exhausted and sank in the snow. His companion 'struggled on and at
last was able to reach the friendly shelter of the Hospice, where he told the story of his
lost fellow—traveler.

Barry was called by the monks and told to take the traveler’s trail, which he did,
ﬁnding at length the man who had been left behind, unconscious in the snow. Barry
ﬁnally, by various methods, roused him from his stupor only to be mistaken by the
more or less dazed man for a wild beast. With what remaining strength he had, the
traveler managed to get his knife out of his pocket and plunge it into Barry’s neck.
In spite of this, the faithful dog kept at his task until the traveler realized that he had
evidently been found by one of the dogs of the Hospice. He struggled to his feet, and
half leaning on the dog, whose strength was rapidly failing from loss of blood, at last
reached the Hospice. On its threshold the noble creature, who had stained every
step of the way back with his own life-blood, fell exhausted, having given to all humanity
a lesson in ﬁdelity to a trust as great as could well be taught.

On the monument to Barry in the cemetery in Paris, is the following inscription:
“He saved the lives of forty persons, and was killed by the forty—ﬁrst."——From 0m
Dumb Animals.

— <‘ . ' .. :0T-M_‘=—‘_.-f~“.~,&;‘l~

 




 

 

 

x.

 

20 THE TEACHER’S HELPER

 

82‘ THE DOGS OF ST. BERNARD \
e

The great St. rnard Pass, which lies between Mt. Blane and the Matterhorn
heights of the Alps, used to be crossed chieﬂy by pilgrims to Rome. Sometimes these
pious peOple foolishly tried to make their way across in winter, when the pass and
mountainside were thick with snow, and blizzards swept down at frequent intervals.
Then the pilgrims, blinded by the driving storm, would lose their bearings sometimes,
and, after wandering, perhaps for days, would ﬁnally sink down from weariness, soon
to be covered by the snow.

At last, Saint Bernard of Menthon, a monk, founded the Hospice of St. Bernard,
and a group of monks came to live at this desolate spot, high above where any trees
can grow, so as to be at hand to lend aid to exhausted travelers. But the noble monks
soon discovered that, alone, they could seldom ﬁnd the drift—covered pilgrims in the
blinding storms, so they brought some dogs up to the Pass, and trained them to hunt for
wanderers. It is said that the St. Bernard dogs came originally from the Pyrenees
mountains in Spain, but they have been born and have lived so long at St. Bernard now,
that perhaps no one knows exactly where their ancestors came from.

To teach the dogs to ﬁnd the lost pilgrims, one of the monks would cover himself
with snow, far out on the mountainside, and then the dogs would be sent out to ﬁnd
him. Of course they were made much of when they were successful, so that they soon
understood what they were expected to do. To the dogs’ collars, small barrels, containing
food and drink, were fastened, and many an exhausted traveler was saved from death
by these little barrels.

The dogs of St. Bernard are not clumsy and lazy as are the St. Bernards that we
usually see. They seem to be full of life, and some of them are very savage with strangers
when the dogs are visited in their kennels. But these savage ones are just as faithful
and valuable when a lost traveler is to be sought, and they are as gentle as possible
when they are doing their duty.

We cannot look at these wonderful dogs without wondering at their splendid courage.

"However deep the snow may be, and though the wind may be hurling great drifts down

the mountainside, these brave fellows set out at the word of command and cheerfully
risk their lives. And none the less to be admired, are the brave Brothers who, no
matter what the weather, are always ready to give their lives for others, so that the Hos-
pice of St. Bernard might well be called the Home of Heroes—From “Famous Four-
Footed Friends.”

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

IN HUMANE EDUCATION 21

 

 

 

SIR WALTER SCOTT AND HIS DOGS

Sir Walter Scott’s love for animals is one of the most strikingly marked traits of
his character. His horses liked to be fed by no one but him, and with his dogs he lived
on terms of intimate friendship. “Camp,” who is often affectionately mentioned in
his master’s letters, was the chosen champion of hill and hearth and a couple of lively
greyhounds, answering to the names of “Douglas” and “Percy,” came in for their
full share of attention. I

One day when Sir Walter was a boy, a dog came running toward him, and he picked
up a stone and threw it at him, as some boys will do, just to see if they can hit the mark.
The stone broke the dog’s leg; yet the poor suffering dog crawled up and licked Sir
W alter’s feet, as if to forgive him of any intentional wrong. Then Scott felt the bitterest
remorse. He could never forget this incident, for he was a kind and tender—hearted man.

Camp was a large and handsome bull-terrier, very ﬁerce by nature, but very gentle
with children. His master used to call him the wisest dog that he had ever known.
For it seems that Camp once forgot himself and bit the baker. Since the good man had
done nothing to provoke the dog, Camp was given a good whipping and was also told
very solemnly that he had done a very wicked thing and that he must never bite anyone
again. After this, whenever anyone spoke about the unfortunate baker and how he
had been bitten, Camp would sneak over into a corner of the room with his tail hanging
down and with a look of great distress on his face.

Maida was a deerhound, very large and handsome. After Camp had gone Sir
Walter loved Maida more than any other of his dogs. It was Maida who used always
to sit by his master’s side at dinner-time, and many a choice morsel found its way to
Maida’s mouth before the meal was over. Maida accompanied Sir Walter on his
walks and tried to be very digniﬁed. On one occasion when his patience had been
exhausted by the antics of some younger dogs who jumped on him, he seized one of
his tormentors and rolled him in the dust. At which Sir Walter remarked to his friend:

“I make no doubt when Maida is alone with these young dogs, he throws gravity aside
and plays the boy as any of them; but he is ashamed to do it in our company.” When
Maida died and was buried at the gates of the Abbotsford grounds, a stone was placed
to mark his grave and was used by Sir Walter as a mounting—block—that is, a block to
step upon to get to his horse’s back or into his carriage. These were the lines cut upon

the stone:
Beneath the sculptured form which late you wore,

Sleep soundly, Maida, at your master’s door.

It is from incidents like these that we learn about the life and character of the
great and beloved poet and author of the Waverley novels who loved animals and

never tired of doing kind acts—From Our Dumb Animals.

 

 

 




 

 

22 THE TEACHER’s HELPER

ROSA BONHEUR. PAINTER OF ANIMAL PICTURES

As a little girl living in the south of France Rosa Bonheur loved animals. She was
also deeply interested in the trees, the ﬂowers, the clouds, and other beauties of nature.
Her father, being an artist, early allowed his little daughter to become acquainted with
the materials of his studio, and so Rosa’s playthings may be said to have been paints,
palettes, and color brushes.

When Rosa was seven years of age the Bonheur family removed to Paris, where
the daughter was sent to school. But she had no liking for books and came to be a good
deal of a tomboy. In her eleventh year her father decided that she must earn her
living and so apprenticed her to a dressmaker. Again Rosa quickly showed that she
despised sewing as well as books, whereupon her father took her into his studio and
permitted her to use her time as she saw ﬁt.

It was not long before the young girl’s work justiﬁed his course. She spent many
days in the Louvre c0pying the great masters and studying their methods, and became
very proﬁcient in the art that she loved. .

Not long after this her father moved out into the country where there were many
neat farms well stocked with animals.

Rosa’s heart was full of the joy of being near these living things. She spent day
after day, sketchbook in hand, making studies of sheep and cows and horses and pigs.
She studied animal anatomy and sculptured in wax and clay, so that her paintings
might be more perfect.

\Vhen she was nineteen years old she had her ﬁrst two animal pictures accepted
by the Salon. Soon her work was paying her handsomely. The painting entitled
“The Horse Fair” is undoubtedly Rosa Bonheur’s masterpiece. In preparation for
painting this picture Rosa went daily to the place where the fair was to be held, in male
clothing so that she might escape attention. The picture was sold at a fabulous price
in 1857 to Cornelius Vanderbilt and is now in the Metropolitan Museum, New York
City.

Rosa’s fame soon became world—wide. She was decorated with the Cross of the
Legion of Honor, the ﬁrst of many high honors that came to her. She continued to
paint all kinds of animals with ﬁrm and Virile hand, even up to her death, at the age of
seventy—seven, in 1899. Her biographers have said that the best proof of the Opinion
in which she was held lies in the fact that she was followed to the grave by every emi—
nent person then known to the Parisian world of arts and letters—From Our Dumb

A m'mals.

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

IN HUMANE EDUCATION 23 ‘§ 3
lg;
/”‘°‘RBRAHAM LINCOLN’S KINDNESS To ANIMALS K<
‘ /

In the early pioneer days, when Abraham Lincoln was ayoung lawyer and “rode

the circuit,” he was one day traveling on horseback from one town to another with a
party of friends who were lawyers like himself.
The road which they traveled led across prairies and through woods. As they

passed by a grove where the birds were singing merrily, they noticed a baby bird which
had fallen from the nest and lay ﬂuttering by the roadside.

After they had gone a short distance, Mr. Lincoln stopped, turned, and said, “Wait
for me a moment; I will soon rejoin you.”

As his friends halted and watched him, they saw Mr. Lincoln return to the place
where the helpless bird lay on the ground, and tenderly take it up and set it on a limb
near the nest.

When he joined his companions, one of them laughingly asked, “Why did you
bother yourself and delay us with such a triﬂe as that?”

Abraham Lincoln’s reply deserves to be remembered. “My friend,” said he, “I
can only say this—that I feel better for it. I could not have slept tonight if I had left
that helpless little creature to perish on the ground.”

Lincoln’s sympathies went forth to animals as well as to his fellow-men. On one
of his visits to General Grant’s headquarters during the Civil War his attention was
attracted to three tiny kittens crawling about the ﬂoor. The mother had died, and
the little wanderers in their grief were mewing piteously. Mr. Lincoln picked them
up tenderly, sat down on a camp chair, took them on his lap, stroked their soft fur,
and murmured, “Poor little creatures! Don’t cry! You’ll be taken good care of.”
Then, turning to an ofﬁcer, he said, “Colonel, I hope you will see that these poor little
motherless waifs are given plenty of good milk and treated kindly.” Three times the
President went to that tent during his short visit, and picked up those little kittens,
fondled them, and took out his handkerchief and wiped their eyes as they lay on his
lap, purring their gratitude. It seemed a strange sight, on the eve of battle, when
everyone was thinking only of the science of destruction, to see the hand that by a
stroke of the pen had loosed the shackles of four millions of bondsmen, and had signed
the commission of every ofﬁcer of that gallant army, from the general-in-chief to the

humblest lieutenant, tenderly caressing three stray kittens—From Om Dumb Animals.

gvﬂ/M /W W 9”

MW: ' /./ .4} , 'Z%/£th

 




 

 

 

 

24 THE TEACHER’s HELPER

 

' . ' CHARLES KINGSLEY AND HIS PETS

Charles Kingsley loved every living thing with all his big, generous heart, and as a
natural result every living thing loved him—his cats, dogs and horses giving him a
devotion that was almost human.

His riding horse followed him about like a tame tabby cat, and the far-famed
dogs of Eversley Rectory—Dandy, Sweep and Victor—mOped and grieved during his
absences until it was frequently feared that they would die.

Dandy was a terrier, “long, low, with short, crooked legs, big paws, a broad head
with plenty of room for his brain, and soft brown eyes that expressed every thought in
his heart as plainly as if he had had human speech,” writes Rose Kingsley, in an article
about her father’s dogs. Dandy was his learned master’s Shadow and made it his especial
duty to accompany him on his visits among the people of the parish. Sometimes Dandy
attended church, and when he did, “he behaved with his wonted discretion,”
mistress, “calmly lying down at the tOp of the high, old—fashioned pulpit steps, looking
around on the amused congregation as much as to say, ‘If you attempt to annoy my
master, I am here to defend him.’ ” Dandy lived to be thirteen years old, and when he
died Kingsley himself dug his grave and placed a stone at its head, with this inscription:
”The faithful to the faithful.”

Sweep was another of the Eversley dogs—a great black retriever noted in several
ways. One thing was his ability to bear a pet cat all over the place by grasping her
head in his mouth. Miss Puss and he were devoted friends, and for years she would

very complacently allow him to bear her about in this fashion to amuse guests at the

says his

rectory.

Victor was another dearly loved pet of the great author. He was a dachshund of
the royal breed, for he was given to Kingsley by Queen Victoria herself from her own
kennel. He was “ﬁve inches high and a yard long when he was grown,” says his mistress.
“He insisted on sleeping in my bedroom, and if he was put out, his shrieks roused the
house. He had very aristocratic tastes. No power on earth could make him go down
by the back stairs, and if the maids invited him to the kitchen, he would leave them to
go down their own way, and running round by the front stairs would meet them at the
kitchen door.”

When this little dog fell ill, the man whom even royalty loved to honor laid aside
his busy pen, and for two nights and days nursed the suffering little animal. And when
Victor’s big, wistful eyes closed forever, their last glance was for the kindly man whom
he had loved all his life with all the devotion of his doggish heart.

Charles Kingsley took great delight in cats; the stable had always its white cat,
and the house its black or tabby, whose graceful movements he never tired of watching.
On the rectory lawn dwelt a family of natterjacks (running toads), who lived on from

year to year in the same hole, which the scythe was never allowed to approach. He

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

I N HUMANE EDUCATION 25

 

made friends with a pair of sand wasps, one of which he had saved from drowning.
They lived in a crack of the window in his dressing—room, and every Spring he would
look out eagerly for them or their children as they came out of or returned to the same
crack. The little ﬂycatcher, who built its nest every year under his bedroom window,

was a constant joy to him.——Fi'0m Baptist Boys and Girls.

THE STORY OF GREYFRIARS’ BOBBY

More than ﬁfty years ago a poor old shepherd died, and was buried in a graveyard
at Edinburgh, Scotland, his only mourner being a little Scotch terrier. On the two
succeeding mornings the sexton found the dog lying on his master’s grave, and drove
him away with hard words, dogs being against the rules of the cemetery.

The third morning was cold and wet, and when the sexton found him shivering on
the new—made grave, he hadn’t the heart to drive him away, and gave him something
to eat.

From that time, the dog made the churchyard his home, every night for eleven
years and three months. No matter how cold or wet or stormy the night, he could not
be induced to stay away from the beloved spot, and if shut up would howl dismally.

Every day, when the castle gun was ﬁred at ten o’clock, he went punctually to a
restaurant near by, where the proprietor fed him. At one time Bobby was in great
danger of being seized and done away with by the dog—catcher because his tax had not
been paid. VVhereupon the boys and girls of the neighborhood collected the amount
and tendered it to the Lord Provost. This ofﬁcial was so moved by what the children
had done that he promised to stand good for Bobby and so exempted him from the
dog tax, and to mark his admiration of his ﬁdelity, presented him with a handsome
collar inscribed, “GREYFRIARS’ BOBBY, presented by the LORD PROVOST OF
EDINBURGH.”

Bobby had many friends and Visitors, and many, beside the men employed about
the yard, tried to win his affections; but he refused to attach himself to any one person.
For more than eleven years he kept his watch over his master’s humble grave, and then
died quietly of old age, and was buried in a ﬂower bed near by. The master’s grave
is unmarked by any stone, but a marble fountain was erected to the memory of his
homeless dog, and a bronze statue of Bobby stands on tOp of it. It was the gift of a
kind and wealthy woman, Baroness Burdett Coutts, and may be seen to this day just
outside the gate of the churchyard where Bobby’s beloved master was buried—the
spot that was watched and guarded by the faithful little dog to his dying day. Lady
Coutts said she built the monument to Greyfriars’ Bobby to teach the boys and girls
of Edinburgh the meaning of that single word—"Loyall:y.”—F7'0m Our Dumb Animals.

 

 




 

 

26 - THE TEACHER’s HELPER

 

_/
l, DANIEL WEBSTER AND THE WOODCHUCK
Farmer Webster lived away up among the hills of New Hampshire, and was as

honest and kindly-tempered a man as you could ﬁnd in all the countryside. He had
two sons, Ezekiel and Daniel. Ezekiel set a box-trap for a woodchuck which had been
eating the vegetables in Farmer VVebster’s garden. '

The woodchuck was caught. “Now we’ll kill the thief!” cried Ezekiel. “You’ve
done mischief enough to die, and die you shall.”

“0, don’t,” begged his brother Daniel, pitying the poor captive. “Take him into
the woods, and let him go.”

The boys could not agree, so they told their father all about it.

“Well,” said the farmer, “there’s the prisoner; you shall be his counsel, one for_.his
life and the other against it, and plead the case before me. I will be the judge.”

Ezekiel opened the case as follows: “The prisoner at the bar is naturally of a mis-
chievous disposiiiiion, and wherever he goes he does much damage to people’s property.
In our own ﬁeld he has eaten the red clover, and in the garden no kind of plant is safe
from his destructive teeth. Much time and labor and patience have been spent in
catching him, and it is not right that all this should be wasted. If he is allowed to go
at liberty, he is sure to take to his evil habits again. He will then be wary enough not
to be caught a second time, and will do more harm than ever. If he is killed, his skin
will be of some value, though not nearly enough to pay for the damage he has done.

For these reasons the woodchuck ought to die.”

This was a good argument, and weighed very much on the farmer’s mind. He
turned to his younger son, and said, “I’ll hear now what you have got to say on the
other side, Daniel.”

Daniel was afraid his brother had the best of the case. But when he turned his
large dark eyes on the poor woodchuck, trembling with fear in the grating of his narrow
prison, his breast swelled with pity; he took courage and, looking the judge in the face,
poured forth his plea in its behalf:

“God made the woodchuck. He made him to live, to enjoy the bright sunshine,
the pure air, the free ﬁelds and woods. God has not made anything in vain, and the
woodchuck has as much right to live as any other living thing. He is not a destructive
animal like the fox or the wolf. He simply eats a few common vegetables, of which we
have plenty, and we can well spare a part. The little food he requires is as needful
and as sweet to him as the food on our mother’s table is to us. God gives us our food
and all we have; and shall we not spare a little dumb creature, who has as much right to

his small share as we have to our portion?

“Nay, more, the woodchuck has never broken the laws of nature or of God, as we
have done, but strictly follows the simple instincts given him by his Creator. He has a
right from God to life, to food, to liberty; and weghave no right to deprive him of either.

 

A PLEA FOR THE HORSE

Every horse will work better and longer if given three
ample meals daily ; plenty of pure water; proper shoes.
sharpened in slippery weather; a blanket in cold
weather ; a stall 6 x 9 or enough room to lie down ; a fly
net in summer ; two weeks vacation each year. Avoid
the cruel, tight check rein, and closely fitting blinders,
which cause blindness.

SPARE THE WHIP

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

IN HUMANE EDUCATION 27

 

Look at the poor little creature, trembling in his cage, pleading mutely, but“; earnestly,
for his life and liberty, as sweet and dear to him as ours is to us. Do not in selﬁsh cruelty,
and with a cold heart, take the life which you can never give back again.”

Daniel saw the tears start in his father’s eyes and run down his sunburnt cheeks
for this appeal to his mercy was too much for him. Suddenly the judge rose from his
chair and exclaimed: “Zeke, Zeke, you let that woodchuck go!”

Daniel, the young, eloquent pleader for mercy, became one of America’s greatest
statesmen; but in all his after-life he never won a. nobler victory than when he compelled

his brother Zeke to “let that woodchuck go.”

ST. FRANCIS AND THE BIRDS “g,

St. Francis of Assisi loved all animals and birds. It is said t at the dog, the wolf,
the rabbits, the pigeons, the ﬁshes, the birds turned-to him for protection, and he took
their part, righted their wrongs, treated them fairly and kindly as his own little sisters
and brothers.

Tradition says that, going towards Bivagno one day, he lifted up his eyes and saw
a multitude of birds. He said to his companions, “Wait for me here while I preach to
my little sisters the birds.” The birds gathered around him and he spoke to them
somewhat as follows:

“My little sisters, the birds, you owe much to God your Creator, and ought to sing
His praise at all times and in all places, because He has given you liberty and the air
to ﬂy about in; and though you neither spin nor sew, He has given you a covering for
yourself and little ones. He sent two of your species into the ark with Noah that you
might not be lost to the world. He feeds you though you neither sow nor reap. He
has given you fountains and rivers in which to quench your thirst, and trees in which
to build your nests. Beware, my little sisters, of the sin of ingratitude, and study
always to praise the Lord.” As he preached, the birds opened their beaks, stretched
out their necks, and ﬂapped their wings, and bowed their heads to the earth. More
than seven hundred years have passed since St. Francis of Assisi blessed the birds and
the animals and called them his “little brothers and sisters,” and since that time there
have always been some good men in every age who have tried to soften the hearts of
their fellow-men towards theirbrothers in fur and feathers, and to impress them with

a truer conception of their rights—From Our Dumb Animals.

 

 




 

 

28 THE TEACHER’S HELPER

 

 

THE STORY OF OWNEY, THE POSTAL DOG

A homeless and hungry. dog, shivering from the cold, one day crept into the Post
Ofﬁce at Albany, N. Y. The clerks were all too busy to notice him, so he huddled
himself up on a pile of mail bags and went to sleep. He had scarcely known such warmth
and comfort before. The next day he was discovered and no one had the heart to
drive him out into the cold, so wistful was the look in his eyes, and so pleading the wag
of his tail. At dinner time, the clerks shared their lunches with the half—starved dog,
and from that time on, he bad faith and conﬁdence in the men who work in the Post
Ofﬁce or who have charge of the U. S. mail.

The little dog stayed at the Post Ofﬁce for several weeks and made friends with
everyone. Nobody knew who owned him and as so many asked the question, the

dog soon came to bear the name of “Owney.”

Owney was a very intelligent dog. He watched the mail bags come and go and
one day decided to go along, too, for he knew the bags were always safe and handled with
care. He was gone for several weeks and then reappeared among his old friends at the
Post Ofﬁce. Fearing that Owney might get lost, the clerks bought a collar for him and
had his name and address engraved upon it. After this, Owney made long trips and
visited many cities all over the United States. How do we know this? You ask. It
. is in this way. A card was fastened to Owney’s collar upon which the railway postal-
clerks were asked to attach tags to the dog’s collar, which would show where Owney
had been. _ i

In the course of time, Owney acquired so many tags that they became almost too
heavy for him to carry continually. He traveled whenever he took a notion. No one
restrained him or directed him. Once he visited Washington, D. C., and was intro—
duced to Postmaster—General Wanamaker. This high ofﬁcial was much interested in
Owney and all the tags that his collar bore which proved that the dog had been in cities
of the West, South and East and even Mexico, where someone also gave him a Mexican

dollar to wear.

Postmaster Wanamaker pitied Owney for having to carry round such a heavy load
and had a harness made for him to which all his tags, checks and trOphies were trans—

ferred and then Owney continued his travels in greater comfort.

The most remarkable journey that Owney ever made was his trip around the world.
One day Owney arrived in the city of Tacoma and went down to the wharf with the
mail bags that were to be placed aboard a great steamer, soon to sail for Japan and
China. Owney wanted to go along too, and walked up the gang—plank of the steamer
and was welcomed by the captain. Before he sailed away as the captain’s guest, he
was given letters of introduction to the postal authorities of the world. He was fur-
nished with other credentials and wore his harness with all the tags and medals that

had been presented to him. When the little dog traveler arrived in Japan, his presence

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

IN HUMAN-E EDUCATION 29

 

was announced to His Imperial Majesty, the Mikado, who presented him with a pass-
port bearing the seal of the empire and extending to him the freedom of the country.
In China, Owney visited many distinguished merchants; was given another passport
by the Emperor and received many more decorations.

Owney was treated as a visitor of high rank or distinction everywhere he went.
From the far east, he returned by way of the Suez Canal across the Atlantic to New
York, and then across the country to Tacoma, his starting point. He made the trip in
132 days, which was a quick time for a dog traveler, who attracted so much attention
wherever he went. .

Owney was the greatest dog traveler in the world. His home was on the fast trains
among the mail bags. He always greeted the postal clerks with wagging tail and eyes
beaming with joy, but there his familiarity ended. It is said that Owney used to arouse
many a tired railway mail clerk, who had fallen asleep, and thus remind him to throw
off the mail bag. Clerks thought themselves Specially favored and very fortunate
when Owney chose to accompany them over their route, and it is recorded that no
accident ever happened to a train on which Owney was traveling. At the end of his
journeys, this wonderful dog had over 200 checks, medals and certiﬁcates and his picture
and harness and great collection of tags is still kept and exhibited by the U. S. Post

Ofﬁce Department—From Our Dumb Animals.

STORY OF THE BELL OF ATRI

In Atri, one f the old cities of Italy, the King caused a bell to be hung in a tower
in one of the public squares, and called it a “Bell of Justice,” and commanded that
anyone who had been wronged should go and ring the bell and so call the magistrate
of the city and ask and receive justice.

And when, in course of time, the bell rope rotted away, a wild vine was tied to it to
lengthen it. One day an old and starving horse that had been abandoned by its owner
and turned out to die, wandered into the tower, and, in trying to eat the vine—stalk,
rang the bell. The magistrate of the city, coming to see who had rung the bell, found
the old and starving horse. And he caused the owner of the horse, in whose service it
had toiled and been worn out, to be summoned before him, and decreed that as this
poor horse had rung the “Bell of Justice” he should have justice, and that during the
horse’s life his owner should provide for him prOper food and drink, and stable.

Longfellow has told this story in beautiful verse entitled “The Bell of Atri.”

This was a part of the King’s proclamation:

“What fair renown, what honor, what repute
Can come to you from starving this poor brute?
He who serves well and speaks not, merits more
Than they who clamor loudest at the door.
Therefore the law decrees that as this steed
Served you in youth, henceforth you shall take heed

- To comfort his old age, and to provide

Shelter in stall, and food and ﬁeld beside.”

——From Our Dumb Animals.

 

 

 




 

 

30 ' THE TEACHER’s HELPER

 

K, /
/‘:”‘ AUDUBON AND THE BIRDS

John James Audubon knew more about the birds of this country than any one had
known before. He was born in the State of Louisiana. His father took him to France
when he was a boy and there he went to school.

As a boy John James was fond of studying about wild animals, but most of all he
wished to know about birds. Seeing that the boy liked such things his father took
pains to get birds and ﬂowers for him.

While he was yet a boy in school, he began to gather birds and other animals for
himself. He learned to skin and stuff them, but his stuffed birds did not please him.
Their feathers did not look bright, like those of live birds. He wanted living birds to
study.

His father told him that he could not keep so many birds alive and to please the
boy he got him a book with pictures in it. Looking at these pictures made John James
wish to draw. He thought that he could make pictures that would look like the live
birds, but when he tried to paint a picture of a bird, it looked worse than his stuffed
birds. The birds he drew were not much like real birds and he called them a “family
of cripples.”

All of this time he was learning to draw birds. They were not just like the real
birds. So when he grew to be a man he went to a French painter whose name was
David. David taught him to draw and paint things as they are. Then he came back
to this country, and lived a while in Pennsylvania, where his chief study was the wild
creatures of the woods.

He gathered many birds’ eggs and made pictures of these eggs. He did not take

the eggs to break up the nests. He was not cruel. He took only what he needed to
’ study.

He made up his mind to write a great book about American birds, and in another
book to print pictures of birds just as large as the birds themselves. He meant to have
them look just like living birds.

To do this he must travel many thousands of miles and live for years almost all
of the time in the woods. He would have to ﬁnd the birds in order to make pictures
of them, and he must see how the birds lived, and how they built their nests, so that
he could tell all about them. It would take a great deal of work and trouble, but he
was not afraid of trouble.

That was years ago. Much of our country was then covered with great trees, and
Audubon often had to travel on foot through woods where there were no roads. Many
a time he had to sleep out-'of-doors.

Finally he lost his money and became poor. Sometimes he had to paint portraits
to get money to live on, but he did? not give up his great idea. He still studied birds,
and worked to make his books about American birds-

After years of hard work he made paintings of nearly a thousand birds, which were

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

IN HUMANE EDUCATION . 31

 

"6

almost enough to ﬁll his books. But, while he was traveling, two rats got into the
box in which he kept his pictures, and cut up all of his paintings with their teeth and
made a nest of the pieces. This almost broke his heart for a while. For many nights
he could not sleep, because he had lost all his work. But he did not give up. After
some days he went into the woods, saying to himself, “I will begin over again. I can
make better paintings than those the rats spoiled.” But it took him four and a half
years to ﬁnd the birds and make the pictures again. _
4 He was so careful to have his drawings just like the birds that he would measure
them in every way. Thus he made his pictures just the size of the birds themselves.

At last the great books were printed. In this country, in France, and in England,
peOple praised the wonderful books. They knew that Audubon was indeed a great

man—“Stories of Great Americans for Little Americans.”

\< LOUIS AGASSIZ, THE GREAT-TEACHER

Have you never wondered how we know so much about animals? -How do men
ﬁnd out so much about their ways of life and their instincts?

There are men who seem to be born for the purpose of ﬁnding out these things
and then telling us what they have learned.

Louis Agassiz was one of these. When he was a little child he began to take
delight in birds and beasts, ﬁshes and insects. He felt toward them as if they were his
friends.

W’ hen he was a little older he was never so happy as when tramping the ﬁelds or
searching along the banks of a lake or stream to ﬁnd some new creatures. When he
was in college he was familiar with every beast, knew the different kinds of'birds from
hearing their songs, even when far away, and could give the names of all the ﬁshes.
He was very fond of pets, and at one time had in his room about forty birds which
made their home in a small pine tree set up in one corner.

Agassiz started in the world as a poor boy but he became one of the most learned
men and greatest teachers of his time. He made known to us a great many things
that we did not know before about the world we live in and about our fellow creatures.

Among many other important things that Agassiz used to teach his pupils is that
they should always kill the ﬁsh they caught as soon as they were taken out of the water.
He said we should strike the ﬁsh on the back of the head with a stick or stone, because
the ﬁsh that die as soon as they are caught are much better than those that die slowly,

and suffer before they die. Let us remember this the next time we go ﬁshing—From

/
”/4 / /‘

“Heroes and Greathearts and Their Animal Friends.”
#xﬂ ./ ,./, ii? , /

 

 




 

 

'I

9

i

If

i,

I

i

'i

t

“International peace begins, if anywhere,” ‘

writes a Clear-thinking editor in the Boston '
Herald, “in that reverence for life, for individ—
uality, which has its root in kindness to

animals.” *

i

Q

i

5

i

t

4

I

"I

t:

r»;

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

A LETTER TO CHILDREN

MY DEAR Boys AND GIRLS:

I wantto ask you some questions and make you think for a
few minutes. Did you ever have a pain, or get hurt? Yes, and
you wished the pain would stop pretty soon, didn’t you, because
it made you suffer. Now I want you to take notice that it is be:
cause you can feel that you have suffered, and to remember that
everything can feel, horses, and cows, and cats, and rabbits, and
birds, and insects,—every creature that is alive can suffer.

You all know that it is bad to be hurt, and that it is hard if
some one goes on hurting you just for fun. It is no fun at all for
you. That is the way it is when you hurt animals, or birds, or
insects. Just think. They cannot speak and tell you how much

 




 

you hurt them, and that makes it still more wrong for you to do it.
\When you feel like throwing a stone at some creature, “just for
fun,” stop a moment and think, “How would I like it myself?
How would I like some big, strong person to throw stones at me?”
You know you would not like it. Do you know what a coward is?
One kind of a coward is a boy or girl, or anybody who hurts any-
thing for fun. It is not real fun, it is a very ugly thing indeed,“

CRUELTY.

There are ever so many kinds of cruelty. Sometimes boys
have to drive horses with heavy loads, and the horses want to go
slowly as they should, for a heavy load cannot be drawn fast with—
out hurting the horse; yet the boys do not think, but beat the horses
and jerk the lines. Boys, that is cruelty. If any of you want to
do it, stop, and say, “How would I like it myself?” Think how it
would seem if you were the horse, pulling a heavy load; straining
hard to do it; perhaps thirsty and not able to say anything about
it; and with somebody behind you constantly beating your tired
back with a whip, and jerking a hard bit in your mouth. Boys,
will you not try to thin/2k when you drive? Learn to use the whip
as little as possible; encourage your horse with kind words,—they
are what you would like if you were a horse,——and never jerk
the line and never have autight checkrein.

It is cruel to drive cows fast. Cows were not made to run as
fast as boys, and when you hurt the cow by making her run you
spoil her milk too, and it is likely to make people ill when they drink
it. It is cruel to do anything that you would not like yourself if
you were in the dumb creature’s place.

A lady once told me of two pictures which she saw. One was
a very large frog sitting on the edge of a pond and throwing stones
at a very small boy, and asking him how he liked it. The other
picture was a large ﬂy hurting a little boy and paying no attention
to. anything but the fun he was having. How dreadfully cruel
such a frog and such a ﬂy would seem. But, boys, you know it
is really the other way, and it is boys who are cruel to the poor
creatures who cannot speak or protect themselves.

Sometimes boys think it is fun to frighten animals. There are
boys who think it no end of fun to say, “Scat I” whenever they see
a cat, and I have actually heard of boys who throw stones at cats!
How would the boys like it themselves?

Suppose that whenever they dared to show themselves in day-
light somebody a great deal bigger than they should make a great
noise and chase them and frighten them dreadfully and throw stones
at them; wouldn’t they be very unhappy boys?

In hot weather, when dogs have gone a long distance or are
very thirsty they sometimes grow feverish and ill, just as human
beings do. Often when they have ﬁts people who do not under—
stand are afraid and perhaps chase them. Then the poor things

 




grow still more ill, just as you would if you were so cruelly treated.
Any animal that is ill should be very kindly treated and given some
water and allowed to rest quietly in a shady place. ._

Another way of being cruel is by neglect. If you have a pet
of any kind do not neglect to give it food and water. If you have
cats or dogs always keep a pan of clean fresh water where they
can get it when they are thirsty. Once I knew a little girl who,
because she had company in the house, forgot to feed and give
water to her bird, and when she thought of it it was too late and
the bird was dead. Think of that, children. Starved to death.
Think how uncomfortable you are when even for a little while you
need food or water and do not have it, and then think of doing with-
out it until you died. Now do you not see how very wicked such
thoughtlessness is? God made all the dumb creatures and he
made the dear little birds, and he did not mean them to be put
into cages, but if we do it we must take care of them.

And now I want to speak of the, birds that are not in cages,
but in the woods and ﬁelds. How beautiful they are and how
sweetly they sing, and how cruel it is to kill them or to take away
their eggs or their young ones. Once I read of a boy who stole a
nest of young birds, and he did not care, though the old ones shrieked
and cried in their grief at losing their children, and the little ones
cried for food and their mother’s care and her warm wings; and
his little sister cried for pity, and said: “Ah, the poor birds!” But
after he had taken the nest he fell asleep and dreamed that some
one, cross and ugly, came and took him away from his home and
his mother and all his friends and put him in a cold, dreary place,
and that it was because of what he had done to the birds; and he
was so sorry that he took the bird’s nest right back within half an
hour to the tree where he had found it, and the old ones came to
it, and he never again touched a bird’s nest.

Women who wear birds in their hats or bonnets are doing a
cruel thing, for the men who catch them often kill them in a manner
far worse even than shooting, and leave their young ones behind to
slowly starve to death. Girls should never wear birds in their hats,
nor birds’ wings; they are helping to encourage very cruel work
if they do. The clear birds were made to sing and fly about and
be happy and make us happy with their beauty, not to be cruelly
killed and put in hats and bonnets. And it is wrong for another
reason. When the birds are killed there are too many insects,
because birds use a great many insects and their eggs for food.
Insects eat up the farmers’ crops and do much harm in other ways.
It is said that one tenth of what is grown is eaten every year by
insects. You may often see birds hunting in the bark of trees for
insects’ eggs.

Dear boys and girls, it is dangerous to yourselves to be cruel,

because you are likely to grow worse and worse. . Cruel people
often end by going to prison. They do not beheve 1t 1n time, but

 

 

 




cruelty grows like other sins if it: is not checked. Dear children.

{ learn to be kind to everybody and everything. Sometimes because
l f there are so many insects they have to be killed; but, if so, be sure
i j and do it as quickly and mercifully as you can. It is a good thing

i to belong to a Band of Mercy, as that teaches you so many ways of

[ kindness. If there is not one where you live, send a two—cent stamp

It to the American Humane .Edufation Society, 180 Longwood Avenue.

/ Boston, Mass, and get directions for forming one.

l

,l With much love to you all, your friend,

‘ MARY F. LovELL.

THINGS TO REMEMBER

Let us learn to love and protect the birds and their nests.

Birds are man’s helpers.

Let us protect the cats and dogs from ill treatment, give them
food and water and a warm place to sleep in. They like a gentle
touch and kind words.

Please do not let your dog run under a cart or after a bicycle.
He will soon become exhausted. Many dogs are killed, many lost.
many are made very ill by following bicycles and electric cars.

Please make your horse comfortable. Do not use the over-
head check or any tight checkreins. Never jerk, kick, whip. over—
load or overwork him. -

Please be gentle with your cattle, never frighten them or give
them pain by dogging them, or other cruel usage.

_ Please do not ﬁsh or hunt for sport or use steel or other cruel
traps.

Try never to cause needless pain to any living creature.

Do nothing to hurt the feelings of anyone.

Do all you can to make others happy.

When you see any creature abused please earnestly but kindly
protest against such abuse.

Remember the Golden Rule.

Try to treat every living creature as you would like to be
treated if you were that creature.

Be above using profane or vulgar language.

Be clean in body and mind.

These are the ways to be happy and loved.

Published by the AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY, 180 Longwood Avenue.
Boston, Mass. Dr. Francis H. Rowley, President; Guy Richardson, Secretary.
Price, 5 cents per dozen, or 40 cents per hundred, postpaid.
{/3 . 3

 

 

 

{1' '




i
l

 

 

~__. .__ __i........'_.-_‘_-

 

 

Coleridge was a thinker. His worst critic
never denied the power of his masterly mind.
What was he thinking about when he wrote
“The Haven” and “The Ancient Mariner”?
This is what Stopford A. Brooke says in his
Introduction to “The Golden Book of Cole-
ridge” :—

“ ‘The Raven,’ which is the story of the
bird whose home, in an old oak tree, and whose
children were destroyed by those who sacri-
ﬁced the tree to build a ship, has the same
motive as that of ‘The Ancient Mariner’—
oompassion and love for animals secures in
the heart compassion and love for man and

God.”

 




 

!
PEACE ON EARTH,
Kmoness. JUST

AND MERCY To“
EVERY LIVING
CREATURE.

 




