 

W ashers Go
on: Strike

Window washers for Chicago

ysCrapers went out on strike
‘esterday. 5 '
. The strike was called after
. embers of Local 34, Chicago
indow Washers Union, re-
cted an offer Sunday .by the
hicago Window Cleaning Con-
ractors Association . w hich
vOuld provide wage increases
f 80 cents an hour, a new

ension plan and other fringe
enefits.

Seeks $1.50 More

. Myron Posypanko, union busi-
ness manager, said the union
is seeking $1.50 an hour in wage
hikes, in addition to 10 cents an
hour in pension contributions,
an added holiday, a $5,000
death benefit and improve-
ments in health and welfare
plans. Window washers cur~.
rently earn $3.65 an hour in
addition to- 15 cents an hour
dditional for high rise work.

Among the buildings without
ervice yesterday were the
' iVic Center, the John Hancock

enter, State of Illinois Build-
ng, Board of Trade and vir-
ually all Loop buildings and

ity high rise apartments.
~-No Pickets Present

"Fred Kugler of the associ-
tion said no pickets were
resent at any buildings and
11 other services continued
ithout interruption.‘ He said
he industry offer represented
: 22 per cent increase in wages
=d fringes ,,

City Hall, the County Build—
_ ng and University of Illinois
hicago Circle’ s campus were
at affected because of an
greement to pay whatever
revailing rate is agreed. Hotels
150 were not affected and are
n-der a separate agreement
which exipres Dec. 31.

’

 

 

12-Lumberjacks Die
When Boat Sinks

GODBOUT, Que, Nov. 2 (1P)
“ uebec provincial police said
itoday that the bodies of 12
slumberjacks returning home for .

,Achlgan about 240 m ile s
theast of Quebec City. A po-
‘7 spokesman said the group
. employed by a Matane

51.30., cross Lake ,l’Achigan

5551552.mﬂestw.1r1511§ 911 51-1955 .p‘physlc1ans5’ has been Sent to the Pr1bllof Islands to determine 5'

 

o , o .... - , 5 _ 5
Klwanls to Muzzle Turkey Shoot?
. THE LIVE TURKEY SHOOT held annually by the Kiwani ~
Club “of Kewaskum, Wis, may continue, despite mountin
protests against a “sporting” event in which the turkeys are;
tied and used as targets by “sportsmen” paying 25 cents (a

shot. But if it does, Kewaskum may find itself without
Kiwanis Club.

R. P. Merridew, secretary of Kiwanis International, {has
sent the following memorandum, addressed to: “Those who
have expressed concern about the Kewaskum Turkey Sheet”

“The Board of Trustees of Kiwanis International last June
25th passed a resolution urging the Kiwanis Club of KewaSkum,
Wisconsin, to discontinue the use of live turkeys as targets in
the annual Kewaskum Turkey Shoot. This resolution was s‘cnt
to the leadership of the Kiwanis Club of Kewaskum by this
office.

l‘fOn September 20th, the annual Kewaskum Turkey Shoot
was held using some artificial targets but mostly live turkeys
as targets.

“Meeting in Chicago from October 1 thru October 7th, the
International Board of Trustees asked that I send a letter to
the leadership of the Kiwanis Club of Kewaskum notifying
them that if written assurance of no further use of live
turkeys as targets in any fund-raising project is not received
from the Kiwanis Club of Kewaskum by February 1, 1971,! the
Board of Trustees of Kiwanis International will be left no
alternative except to proceed in accordance with the pro-
visions of the International Constitution and Bylaws. This
would indicate the possibility that the charter of the club
may be suspended.”

And a Happy Thanksgiving to turkeys yet unborn as
Well as to Kiwanis International.

. THIS COLUMN recently reprinted a letter from a house-

wife in Joliet who was worrying about a lost, and starving
dog she and her husband had seen—and befriended-in Wild-
cat Mountain State Park near Ontario, Wis. The column
requested La Crosse papers to pick up the story and relay it
to their readers, which was done by the La Crosse Tribune
on Oct. 25. Two days later the same paper printed a second
story stating that as of that date there had been received
seven copies of THE CHICAGO TRIBUNE column from Home-
wood and Skokie,-111.; and from Milwaukee [2], Black River
Falls, Sparta and Gay Mills, Wis. Leeward Lee, state editor
of the La Cross Tribune, sent a clipping and said the total of
worried correspondents since had increased to 10.

A Chicago woman, who telephoned for the name and
address of the Joliet housewife, promised to make a special
trip to Wildcat Mountain to look for the dog, and at least
20 other animal-lovers, from se’Veral states, also~ wrote to
ask for a sequel. Thus far, however, all? we can say is that
at least people in the area have been alerted. Whether“ the
dog has been found and adopted is not known. A farm resi-
dent from Pleasant Valley, near Sparta, wrote, hoping the
dog they have taken in might be the one in question. Un— .
fortunately, their stray came to them before Labor Day. The
Joliet couple saw their stray some weeks later. I

Q AND A FINAL AN’IMAL/NOTEf The ' level of mercury
found in the livers of Alaskan fur seals by federal scientists

‘ has amounted, in some ‘cases, to 116 times the quantity con~

s1dered safe for human consumption. A team of public health

. ether the Aleuts, who eat large amounts of seal, have

Suffered any brain damage 3S 3 result The Aleuts also haVe ~ 5

 

, been adv1sed to eat no seal uver -. p -.

 




FOR RELEASE DECEMBER 16, 1970 ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
P.0. Box 3h92
Grand Central Station
New York, N.Y. 10017

Telephone: 202-337-5hlu

Washington, D.C. - Senator Charles Percy (R., Ill.) today pre-

sented the 1970 Albert Schweitzer Medal of the Animal Welfare Institute

to Bob Cromie, Chicago Tribune columnist. The ceremony took place at

 

h:30 P.M., December 16th, at St. John's Parish House in Georgetown.

Mr. Cromie courageously criticized cruelty to animals in a series
of columns this year. Some of the reforms he plead for have already
taken place. For example, the Westinghouse Science Talent Search which
gives large prizes to high school science students has eliminated from
competition any projects in which animals could be caused pain or dis—
tress.

Mr. Cromie was an active supporter of The Animal Welfare Act of
1970 which expands the existing federal law, P.L. 89~Shh, to include
all kinds of warmrblooded animals in circuses, zoos, the wholesale pet
trade and throughout their entire stay in laboratories. The bill was
unanimously approved by the U.S. House of Representatives and Senate
last week.

The Schweitzer Medal is presented annually by the Animal Welfare
Institute to the individual who has contributed most outstandingly
during the year to the advancement of animal protection. Previous
medallists include: Rachel Carson, Hubert Humphrey, warren Magnuson

and Mike Monroney.

 




ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
P. 0. Box 3650
WASHINGTON. D. C. 20007

For more information
call 202—337—2332

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE:

SCOTT MCVAY TO RECEIVE ANNUAL SCHWEITZER AWARD

FOR OUTSTANDING CONTRIBUTION TO ANIMAL WELFARE.

Scott McVay, Chairman, Committee on Whales, Environmental Defense Fund, will receive
the 1973 Animal welfare Institute Schweitzer Award on Tuesday, December 18, at

3 p.m. at the John F. Kennedy Center for the PerfOrming Arts, Washington, D.C. The
award will be presented by Lee Talbot, Senior Scientist, Cbuncil on Environmental
Quality. Also participating in the ceremonies will be Jason Rbbards, who is currently
starring in Eugene O'Neill's "A Moon for the Rﬂsbegotten”. The award consists of the
Albert Schweitzer Medal and $500.

Two expeditions to the Arctic to study the Bowhead whale were led by Mchy. The
National Film Board of canada is now making an hour.long documentary based on the
second expedition. He has written many articles; presented papers; made films and
speeches on behalf of the great whales; and, with Dr. Roger Payne, has brought the
fascinating recorded ”Songs of The Humpback Whale" to an appreciative public.

MCVhY'S efforts through the Environmental Defense Fund (an American private conser-
vation group that has been working for the past several years to influence world
opinion to spare the whales) contributed to: the listing of the great whales on the
endangered species list; closing down of the last 0.3. whaling operations; and,
passing of the moratorium resolution on the killing of whales.

He has, especially, tried to influence Japan and Russia - the two most blatant
offenders - to stop killing whales, traveling to both countries. In this connection,
the Animal Welfare Institute, Friends of the Earth, Fund fer Animals, National .
Wildlife Federation, and other conservationists, have called for a National boycott
of Japanese and Soviet goods and products as a deterrent based on economic pressure.

The first recipient of the Animal Welfare Institute's Medal was Dr. Albert Schweitzer,
in 195“. Other winners include Hubert H. Humphrey, Rachel Carson, and, last year,
Russell Train, now head of the Environmental Protection Agency.

 




ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
P. 0. Box 3650
‘WASHINGTON, D. C. 20007

Dear Members and Friends,

Yen are cordially invited to come to the twenty-second
annual meeting of the Animal'Welfare Institute at The Atrium
in the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts,
Washington, D.C., at three o'clock, Tuesday afternoon, the
eighteenth of Incember.

The Schweitzer Medal will be presented to Scott McVay
in recognition of his vigorous nine-year-long campaign to
stop the cruel killing of the endangered whales. Dr. Lee
Talbot, Senior Scientist of the Council on Environmental
Quality, brilliant and influential student of the plight
of the whales and of other persecuted animals, will make
the presentation.

Famous star of the stage and films, Jason Robards, who
loves whales, will be guest speaker.

, The medallist is the Chairman of the Committee on Whales
of the Environmental Defense Fund, and he played an important
part in major developments protecting whales and dolphins
in the past three years. First, the listing of the great
whales on the endangered Species list by the Department of
Interior in December, 1970, thereby closing the United States
to the importation of whale products (one-fourth of the world
market at that time). Second, the closing of the last U.S.
commercial whaling operation, December 1971, by the Depart-
ment of Commerce. Third, unanimous passage by the Senate
and House of Representatives of resolutions calling for a
ten-year moratorium.on the commercial killing of whales which
subsequently became U.S. policy at Stockholm in June, 1972
and at the International Whaling Commission meetings in London
in 1972 and 1973. Mr. McVay has been active in seeking a
solution to the drowning of dolphins in tuna purse seines.
He is a strong proponent of the boycott of Japanese and Russian
good.which the AWI together with other humane and conservation
organizations are pressing to bring about agreement on the
ten-year moratorium on commercial killing of whales.

A reception will follow the ceremony, and you are encouraged
to bring a friend with you who is interested in the protection

of animals.
Sincerely, :

Christine Stevens
President

 




   

V M.

‘ O

   

 

       
     

,. rder
Of
riter

22 [Reuters]
£1 39, Moscow
+5 Newsweek
ﬁas ordered to
er being ac-
art in produc-
leaﬂets, Tass
ounced.
51. erg; helped to
lets which two
had tried to
1blic places in
It

    

 
 
  

 
 

  

    
  
      

 
 

  

 
 

'f‘for/eigners were
.afolicemen ' after
“flats in a Mox-
ht “days ago,

  
  

   

‘5 Charge

18 questioned by
11am, ‘1‘I certainly
meographed any
ifhas- headed the
’1' e 21/2 years.
{ked " about the
thathe had been
d not heard of it
1d.

3 bout Money

.Iid the only time
"‘"involved in any.
f t here was two
fen he was ques-
’itness in connec-
giving of foreign
10 Soviet citizens.
brnberg was ar-
59 for criminal
In connection with
“ operations and
ate speculative

  
 

  

 
 

 
 
 

   
 
  
   

 
  

  
   
  
 
  
 
   
      
    

  

  

  

 
  

merican news-
j forced to leave
this year.

CHICAGO T111 enNa, FRIDAY, ocroeaa 23 111-70 _,

 

b

Cromie

 

 

 

 

 

Conscience and a‘Hungry Stray Brown Dog

0 THIS COLUMN is addressed to anyone in
the vicinity of the Wildcat Mountain State
Park near Ontario, Wis. There is a
half-starved stray dog there, and a housewife
from J olie’t is worried about him.

She and her husband were at the park last
Saturday and noticed the brown dog,
seemingly studying them from a distance. He
didn’t beg, didn’t approach them. But when
some other campers in the area moved out,
the dog hopefully approached the place where
they had been, searching for food.

The woman from Joliet, noticing how thin
the brown dog was, got some ham and some
bread from their camper and put it on the
ground a short distance away. The dog came
and ate it. Her husband spoke to the dog, and
it stopped a short distance away, polite but
watchful. The Joliet couple fed it some more
food.

“We noticed. he had several burrs in his
coat,” the woman writes, “but was otherwise
clean and clear—eyed. He looked to be a
mixture of Shepherd and Setter. We then
drove the camper to the picnic area, and he.
followed. We got out and walked around, and
he followed, quietly, softly and hopefully. We
talked to him, and he wagged his tail .He
went over to the camper and waited for us.
We got in and drove back to the camping
area. He followed for a short distance, then
stopped. '

t

“I asked Bob if there were anything we

could do about the dog. Of course men are
not sentimentalists . . . they are so terribly
practical. For example: The dog must belong
to someone; you’d take a chance putting him
in the camper, he might go berserk if he’d
never been in an enclosed space before. And
if we took him home, what kind of life would

he have tied to a chain in a small backyard,
breathing the polluted air of Joliet . . . surely
he wouldn’t starve with all the farms in the
area.”

a so THEY WENT BACK to Joliet, but the
woman can’t forget. . . .

“I feel terribly guilty because I did What
countless thousands do——I ignored a'situation
I could have changed.

“Oh, there are all kinds of “arguments-you
can’t care‘for every stray dog in the world.
[Yes, but it’s wrong not to when you
can.] . . Many of us were told never to feed
stray animals or ‘you’ll never get rid of
them.’ [I was never told "this; my parents
adopted every animal they saw in need of
food and a home] And we convince ourselves
that the dog probably has a home. . . . And

. surely. he can’t starve With all these farms.

“To watch a starving dog act in the
manner he did is a lesson in breeding and
dignity . . . he wouldn’t beg in an obvious
manner, but searched for food in the most
unobtrusive way possible. Altho starving, too,
for affection and companionship, he wouldn’t
approach you unless you spoke to him—and if
you drove away, he wouldn’t chase you.

. “Where did he come from? .Did someone
dump him in the park hoping‘someone would
take him? Or did a vacationer just go off and
leave him. Is he waiting in the park for his
former owner?

“And how many people—like us—JUST
LEFT HIM THERE? ”

And she adds a postscript:

“Could you help' us? Do you know of
anyone worthy of the devotion this dog can
give? ”

La Crosse papers, please copy.

   
      
     
  
     
     

 

    
       
 
  
 

Scars

suns, nonsucx AND C

 

 

 

 

 

         
     
   
    
    
    
  
 
      

”300 H

mm, wasted by
weeseftime,
bihty,often V:
where it is z w is
headaches and H
palms. Quiet War}?
a special combinatf
meal eﬁedzsef .1
paws.

time offers We .;.. i
l . l'

      

   
  

   
 
  
  

   
   
    
    
   
 

    
      
    
 

 

.‘J'o.§‘.

  

 

 

 

  
   
   
     
        

 

' VAREA WIDE '

AMLINGS FLOWERLAND
All Chicagoland States

COMMUNITY FAMILY STORES

Big savl'
at these 1

  

-tl-Ax'




 

I '5‘;§“'*.-“-"r"7ss 7 . {it
4‘ aux-.1 . 1.7." ’7 ,y

7
:7 . 3* :17:‘22§::7:.::: 7:13:77: 3.37:: ::7:7:7:::7::3: 9:77:73: :3::i7::772::7:§.
W351: 713.115

::: 7...: 1:77:33: ".77.: ::::::2:: Eivim:

:7:»...‘731‘3: 3:17:77: 27:3:77? :77177W7’7: .. :7: 35%.: 3:3 1:777 7727.33 72.37: 3. g:::::. 7:3. :7 :::7::

’37:: ::::::::::.n:: 27:23:: 1:27: :2: ::::.;7:: 11:77:: 1 :::1 :17: :7::

" 71:.:7::7::7.: . _ ‘. :7:-:i.:7:: :7:}. :37:::: 1:37:11 :7: b::::::: 7 “*1: :‘3.:::. V :2: 7:233:777: :1 :7:: 3mm: 7::,
137.: 7:.1:.:::::: ::::. 73:31::

1‘

" {2,523. ‘- 574: «3 417 m: :-
2277:7773” 2.7-: :::.::: “‘7 7:777}: 371:: .f:

:::7::t 93231::7: 3233.27.33 mwwt 2:: ”.:::::::7::::7 £232: 313 ".7”

3 ._ . , $1. .‘ ‘ m £55"
73:7 1.71:7: :17::7%:§:::1:: 3:7 77 :42... 3:: 7:771: 22.27:...
773717777

«"5 , 7., x,- 7 1 , 7.: 4, {a 1a b- , 1‘ ' m
334733 13377333333333? ' '1’ 7E? 5!; “31:33 1321:? ”£131" 1:313“;
ura'i-g 7:" «13‘. w 1 1. . . Va '«v‘rrm ‘s' 1 ‘f‘ 17:77" 7‘
..:...,.::::7....3:e7-:7: 327... 7: ::~:::1.:2:7.:7::, 2 '31:: :3: ::r:::
c .: 7 - 7:
7:11:23: .. .3: .7: :7:: .73. 7:77:77: :7:: ”1:77:

in:
17:32:13: :7: 7777:? :7 :37: 7717:7733: 72.1.7: 7: 7::3‘:'i... .:1...‘¥

777 ‘ 1:777:77: 77772::
:h: .::::. 1: ::::':: :::::::: .nw133: 3: “7::::::i:n':f :ni::::::::::: :::::::::: ﬂ
3333:: .77:777772::: 7332:3777-7317:7‘7 :mm: 7‘“ a :1“: Q :33: 7:37 7“: $373337“: 3 :3 337:3 MCWW
"£33.: vag": .3255 3.31 Egjmgy :77;ng "1:73.37: 33:13:13.3: “£55 5.

273:: :7:: :7: 3777:...7231: :77: .::7177:.::: 813:7“2‘133: 3.:
&f3 '32:. 1’99“} (3 19%

1

3.7.3:: 3.13.71»: .7. .. .7377? 33::::1::t::.

$.72. .1,

777:7:71:: 7:77:27 :7:: 33‘: 7:71:13; 7:7 77 7:7 717:: {7:77:2M r7773... 7.22;: 7:12: 31:17::

VA)”: 3... :37: 7; 3:53 :77: 3:113:33: : 3:17:22 ”.3: $391177: .13....:: 5:... 7.3:: :7::ﬁal 2:: "3.1:: 33:13. 3. 1:73.171: 31:53; 33:33:31,
' W733: ;.

Filo-jg

i. ,5 3333’ .Mﬁf’:$ 3&3

1":gr

5;

7.33:3 13:37:27: 31:77:74: t::::::;?:t 71.337771;

1.77 13:: 777:: ;:::7£::77 :77

7 :m7: 3:33.: 72:77:: :3: 72;: :7:-:37: ::7::: 711:: :1}.
77::’€.:7::3 ' 2 7 '

:73 :7::731: .3 :7:: :7... 77;: 3.51:. ::i:::. 1 7:177: 32:17:. ‘77: 1:77.33}:
:7::17 3277:7771 73:37:33.7.7 :7:: :7:: 17.;::7.:37:722, {37:75: 7:727.

31‘ 7:377: .12.; 7:777:31 .37: 77.7.:77 ::i.:.7::7: :3 73.712777

r" ’53.;57 '

.2: .3721: :3777:7:t :11:::;: 7:772:57. :7:: :77- :7::

54:*$ gf :ﬁkﬁgﬁ‘ ::1:::::::
”$3412.33 $723 E1153: gygﬁﬁg : 32:32.3; Evﬁ'ﬁ'g} wag} 3'33? (31:! j: {E 1:45) iﬁié’WQ 7' f5}? awailg 353%}{2’5'5} 3? '33“ {3:11 W33 1% 31.3%
:7:”: :1: 3.3.7: 7:1: 3:::::7:: 7:: 7:17.:

 




bQ

i: CQQCQQQ

a
t :. Q QQmQ

V

QQ LQVQ:

fXWl

“3:12;;

aurixitb

w”, “m w
yam
“my "M

gym. 1 I”: “f fFEUCY}.

ism” ﬂy; in." 5;. NJ" “3; , 3 (3— (73‘s “"1"" 3', ,
«k L 3.1} V - \. >v

‘~ : «if?»
, w:- , (a
’eulﬁﬂﬁ

ta V} J: 37:13:“ 3% i1?

CﬁﬁVQCt”
’LTPQQQ
rQally
mu :1 t “i, (:3; a:

E>EYL

a“??? 1W,“ 5‘: ‘21:“.“7: * x- v

,, s_ I R Q r‘ﬂrﬂ's‘» ’133515‘ Fig" .1!» any»
4!. 3-1: [fig f:~:‘1.;‘kf.¢+3 3,,4‘h/ r": ' ,3 s .u i, :1.

WW, V

1:1 '1 E: he: {:32 i1“:

“?“" *I'i‘t"
$419135- J»!

x'2 “ya-r“? ’ r: 1'? vnww‘wE 1w
’ I, f "s
313.: J «k .v‘z'LﬁiQmI :46 :4 h £12931

!.

baQMQﬁlQQQ

@2152},

for Liiaﬁ

f« 1 3.”. p ,- "' _ ,(x b ' . '
m:m@?t ﬁmﬁwﬁitﬁﬁf

(3:?an ’37:

QurQQ1VQQ

0Q W%iCﬂ Will imcluﬁQ

from thQ ﬁrinciplQ 0f @vatian:

hUQQn
ygyj an: CQHCan.
4. , .w, w A. ‘
QQQ cp$¢$ ha
{251‘ (3;: a

Qhﬁl

? ﬁﬁmﬁ‘Wﬂﬁ

far Q11

:3 ' 9' .. M: v
. , L- ..,., <
4i“! ’3‘? a; ﬁ .

“NW”?
A, &1 dais”;

tﬁﬁ Q'

 

 

 




 

Dacemba? é, 1971

MEdallic Art Company

325 East ASth ﬁtreet

ﬂew Ebrk, ﬂew Yerk 10017
Daar girs;

Please aonsidar this an order to strike
three Byenze 3“ Schweitzer meéals t9 have on
hﬁnd far future use.

Eon? continued cooperatian ia appreciated.

ﬁincerely,

(Era. Qharles a. Cooke}
Secretary to NYS. Stevens

 

 

 




THOMAS S. FOLEY COMMITTEE ON AGRICULTURE
5TH DISTRICT. WASHINGTON CHAIRMAN, SUBCOMMITTEE
ON DOMESTIC MARKETING
OFFICES: AND CONSUMER RELATIONS
SUBCOMMITTEE ON LIVESTOCK AND GRAINS

.3::f:.3:::°:2‘f'i::. (amass at the mum gtmg o.

AREA CODE 202., 225-2006

”-5- CW 39mm of imprwmtatihes C°MM$§EEE£A§§E$§R ”"3

SPOKANE, WASHINGTON 99201
SUBCOMMITTEE ON IRRIGATION

AREA CODE 509, 456-4680 : wagbingtun’ £.¢. 20515 AND RECLAMATION

SUECOMMITTEE ON MINES AND MINING
SUBCOMMITTEE ON TERRITORIAL
AND INSULAR AFFAIRS

February 22, 1972

‘ .
“6.5..

Mrs. Roger Stevens
3406 R Street, N.W.
Washington, D. C.

Dear Mrs. Stevens:

I am enclosing a copy of a picture which I took of you and
Congressman Foley at the presentation of the Albert Schweitzer
Award. I thought you might be interested in having the picture.

Best regards.
rely, '
Mm
Bill First

Legislative Assistant
to Thomas S. Foley, M.C.

Bszr
Enclosure

 




DARRELL ST. CLAIRE
ASSISTANT SECRETARY

wtnifeb 331a!” ﬁenafe

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20510

December 28, 1971

Dear Mrs. Stevens:

Thank you for your letter concern-
ing the award ceremony in the old Senate
Chamber. It was a pleasure to be of
some help.

Please call on me further when and
if I can be of any assistance to you
about the Capitol.

My best wiehes for the New Year.

Sincerely,

Mrs. Christine Stevens,

Animal Welfare Institute,
New York, N.Z.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

Dacember 22, 1971

Eon. Darrell Sta Claira

ﬁssistamt gearetary 0f the Eauata
S. 221

United ﬁtates Capital

Washington, 3.0. 20510

13881“ Evil“ 0 3t 0 3:31 {iil‘ﬁ 3

I want to thank yen on bahalf of the diractorg
of the ﬁnimal'ﬁelfara Inatituﬁe fer makiﬁg it pQ$Sib16
to'have tha ﬁlbert ﬁchweitzer ﬁward ceremeny in aha
Old Eenate Ghamber. It was a wonderful expariense for

all of thosa §resent, most at whum‘had nave? saen this
handsomg and hiatoric chamher. 1t lent great digniﬁy
to the occasion. ﬁe are mast grateful t0 yam.

with best wishes fer Christmas and the ﬂew Year.

.u.

Sincerely,

Christine ﬁtevenﬁ
@resident

 




Dacembar 2%? 1971

ﬁr. Egbert ﬂailing, Sugarintenéemt
Janitars Departmant

3 T 62

United States Capital

gashingtan, D.C. 20510

39%? ﬁre Collins,

Th3 efforts of yen? ataff and you in mgking the
01d $enate Ghaﬁber leak 80 beautiful for the Albert
Echweitzar Award ceremony are much appreciated.

0n behalf cf the Directgrs 0f the animal walfare
Institute, I want to thank yen far your attention t0
datail ana for thﬁ way in which you arganized the smcoth
changa fram,m$eting ta reception. E3 are grateful to you.

Best wishas for a Marry Shrigtmas and Happy ﬂaw Year!

Sinceraly,

Chriatina Stevens
Freaident

 

 




12~1u~71

welcome to the twentieth annual meeting of the Animal Welfare Institute.
This has been a year of major progress in the protection of enimele as
all of you know who have come to honor the medallist, Congressman Foley.
Congress passed the Animal welfare Act of 1970, amending the Laboratory
Animal welfare Act, to provide minimum.humene standards for animele in
at leeet five times as many places as before. 'gll'wermbloodod enimele
named by the Secretary of Agriculture will receive protection under the
.Aot. Ten days from.todey the new law will go into effect, for it was
signed last year by Presaﬂent Nixon the day Before Christmen.

The Chairman of the Committees which considered this legislation,
Senator magnuson and Congressman Paage, deserve great credit for its
enactment. Authors of the 1966 Paagewﬁegnneon Act, also known as the
Laboratory enimel Welfare Act, they een the immence value to suffering
animals in extending the coverage of the law and acted accordingly. The
difficult and.time consuming struggle to resolve differences of opinion

fell on the shoulders of Congressman Paley. As Chainmen Paege etated in

the Committee Report, "It 13 e bill which.1nit1elly was controversial,

but which, by virtue of good reason and good will and deliberation and

 




92-

diecueeion by many pereone of divergent views, was able to command the
unanimous approval ef the Cummittee on Agrieulture as well ae the joint
epeneerehip of the entire memberehip of the Livestock and Grains Sub~
committee.“ The entire House and Senate also agreed unenlmeuely to its
passage.

Each of yen, I believe, has e copy of the Twentieth,ennuel Report, and
I will fellew its heedinge in summarizing the activities at the year. New
AWI publications included the fifth edition of "Basic Care of Experimental
Aniaele“ end twe treneletiene 0f this manual, one in Greek, the other in
Spanish. AWI Laboratory Animal Consultant Dorothy Dwoe, who is respon~
eible for the Spanish translation, will tell you about the use to which
it 18 being put. Dr. Barbara Orlane' "Better Nutrition Studies“ which
appeared in the hovemher 1970 issue of ﬁhe American Biology Teacher; is
available as e reprint, swelling the number of such reprinte which the
Institute is eble te eupply to high school teachers to encourage humane

eeienee teaching and eliminate painful enimeleprojeete by untrained youths.

Thousands 0f eepiee er AWI publicatiene «w the exact figuree are given

on the third and feurth pages of the annual report ~~ were distributed.

Veterinarians, scientists, and technicians obtained single free copies of

manuals on the proper cere and housing of laboratory animals; teachers

 




'

school superintendents, end librarians received these on humane teaching
methods and on nine general euhjeete, for example, the paperback eeek,
“Animals and Their Legal Rights“ whjnh.the ewx eentinuee to place in
libraries without cherge. we believe it ie impertent that the centent

of the laws of our eeuntry, both federal and state, be readily available
to interested persons whh wish to pretect animals free cruelty end ebuee.
"Animals end Their Legal Rights" is an essential reference book. we ere
glad to supply any Congressional effiee with e free copy.

If anyone present hes en expreeeive animal photegreph, one clearly
shewing emotion, Whether of joy or eerrew, which.&ight be reproduced fer
the second editlen er ”Animal Expressione“ I hope you will Speak to me or
Mrs. Geuld, AMI Publications Secretary, after the ceremony. we believe
this photographic facetnete to Charles Darwin’s ”Expressioneof the Emetiene

in Man and Animals" provides valuable educatien fer the meny whe de not

really see the animals thatJme§yb in their field cf vision. Te them e deg

is seen as something with fear lege and a tell, but they do not notice

any emotion however eleerly expreeeed on hie face er in his bodily attitude.
As Kenred Lorene the eminent ethelegiet wrote, ”One cf the meet wenderful
and puzzling phenemene ie the cheiee of a master by a good dog. Quite

suddenly, aften within a few days, e bond is formed which is many times

 

 




 

-4...

strengar than any tie that avar exists betw¢en us human beings. worésa

werth calls it:
'...that strength cf fa§ling, great
Above all human eatimate.‘

‘Wa must learn ta reapeat thﬁ$6 deeg feelings and, 30 faraas possible, to
understmmd thﬂml

ﬁra. Dyce will harself report to you shortly an I will turn to tbs
last pages of tbs rapert tailing of tha anactment of legislaticn to pro»
vide a criminal penalty for shooting at or harassing animals or birds tram
an aircraft. Net Only ﬂeas tha new law pravida a stiff fine and impri-
Sonment for violators, but a pilet who tﬁkﬁﬁ a party up in a plane fer
such a purpssa, unless they have a specific peﬂmit, can 1933 his airman
certificate. Excgptions are provided far state and federal emyloyees.

Th3 Horsa Prctacﬁian lat, pasged to stop tha soring of Tennessee
watking Horsea, has been intarpreted as applying to all haeeds, and final
regulations are being drawn following publication at two sets of proposad
ragulations in the Faderal Registarﬁ This is net an Easy law to enforce,
but progreas is being made. Humanitarians shcuxihalp the veterinary

inspectmrs of the U.S. Dﬁpartmant of Agriculture in every possibla way

to wipe out the revolting practice of dallberately laming horses to create

a gait based on pain.

 




 

-5...

The new wild Eerse get camplatad succassful Ganference between ﬂeuﬁa
and ﬁenate thanks ta ﬁematcr Jaakﬁon and Sengreaaman Baring. wﬁ‘:we a

great asbt 66 ﬁhgw far this lagialation to pretaet thﬁ harass fram

crualty and extarmﬁaaticn and I hapa that Sanatmr Jacksen will tell ua

.w'

abaut his auscassful mark for thia legialﬁtian.

The whalas, aeeagrnﬁ and pnrpoisas, 3a saély in need 0? preﬁacticm,
have not yat faraa as well a3 thﬁ haraas, Tﬁﬂ ﬁenata and Rouse have paaﬁed
Resolutiens requaating tbs ﬁecretary 0f State ta call fer a ten~yaar
intsrnational M@raterimm an the killing 0f all sgsciea 9f wh&les. 'When
tha diffaraneaé betwean the twa Resolutions have been regalved we hape thﬁ
State Dapartment will very activaly urga the Whaling naﬁicna to 3&11 a
.halt for a ten year paried to give thﬁaa animalg & chﬁnee. In the interim
less harriad and inaeeurate scientific work shﬂuld be pessible to laarn
tha papulatiana gf'tha lifferant spaaies. A 1333 hideeualy painful mathad
at killing Shﬂuld surgly be ﬁaveloped in that period, tao. Te quote ﬁr.
Harry Lillie who aailad as surg@an t9 a whaling fleat reparts fram first
hand experienca, ”The present day hunting harpaan 1a a horrible 150 paund
weapon sarrying an explosive head which bursts gamerally in tha whala's

intestines, and the sight of one of thgge areatures pouring blood and

 

 




 
   
   
   
   
 

 

    

~6~
gasping along an the surface, towing a uOOwton catching vassel by a

heavy harpeon rape, is pitiful. $0 oftan an hmur or mare of torture is
inflictad before thg agony ends kn death. I have axperienced a case of
five haurs and ninaaharpoona needad to kill one mmthar blue whale.

”If we cauld imagine a horse h&ting two 0? three explcsive spears
driven into it; and.then made to drag a heavy butcher‘s truck'while bbaad
poured avar tht roaﬁway until tha animal cellapsed an haur or mmre later,

wa should have same idaa of Whﬁt a while goes thraugh.”

 

Interest in whales is r owing among the general public. $h§ ﬁWI heath

 

featuring a ”ﬁava the Whalea” message at this year's Rational Science
Teaahars ﬁsaaeiatian Conventian drew mmre interaat than any previeus booth
exhibit we have haé or, far that matter, 9f any other booth in the vicinity.
Taadhers sent thair friends t0 put an the head sets and hsar tha strange
wailing music of Dr. Regar Payne's recording of the ”Songs of the Humpbaak i
Whale." ‘
As for the porpoiget and dolphins so callously drawned by the tuna
fish industry in the tourse of thﬁir purse-seining operations, they must

surely receive protection befere they became as pitifully scarce as many

of“ the great whales.




 

-7-

Humanitarians can be grateful that 30 much.wider interest in
pretedting wildlifa has developed. Endangerad Species laws in five states
have been passed adding candiderably to the proﬁection extended by the
Federal Endangered Spacies Act. ﬁn internaticnal ministerial maating is
planned for thia April by tha Secretaries af interior and Stats to saek
a world.wide treaty to protect Para animala. It is toe late for the
130 species and 228 aubospecies that we hava exterminated sincee the year
1600. But we ggggcahi a halt new to this mindlaas deatruction.

Egantima, we must not forget damsstic animals wholly dependant an
u&. I woulé like ta intrcduce Darothy Dyce, Laboratory gnimﬂl Consultant
Qf tbs éWI, well known be many of you for her canragaous and tireless
work for animals in laboratories, aealers’ compounds, pet ahapa, airparts,
farma, and.somatimas in pramises hard to aefine in any regular category~~

abandoned buildings, parking lots and other out-oratheyway places where

dubious charaetars aesking commercial advantage in the sale of animals

g0 to ply thsir trada. Era. Dyce.

 




aw” . P .-- '”
\\‘ ‘:“~.._ {\{f‘wt ‘ I - 1 _,“- W. v , , ; 3 1i - I; 9’ (“CW 3‘
11-“ ,..- -

M '-

I

‘ 'AIIBERT SCHWEITZER AWARD of the ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE I5

Awarded to TOM for his work in Shepherding the ANIMAL WELFARE ACT
OF 1970 THROUGH THE HOUSE.

THAT BILL, —— signed last year on December 24th —— BECOMES EFFECTIVE
THIS CHRISTMAS EVE.

NUMBER OF SITES, WHERE U.S.D.A. Animal Health InsPectors will NOW
ENFORCE HUMANE STANDARDS for the CARE and HOUSING of ANIMALS
HAS BEEN INCREASED 5 TIlVIES.

NEW LAW, RAISES THE STANDARDS OF CARE AND TREATMENT.

IT WAS ANOTHER FORWARD STEP -— since the first real one we took in 1966
IN GIVING TO OUR 4-LEGGED FRIENDS, THE CARE AND PROTECTION

OF A STRONG and ENLIGHTENED PUBLIC.

 




The ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE -- does much fine work —-

AMONG OTHER ACTIVITIES -— THEY DISTRIBUTE ANY NUMBER OF publications.

PERHAPS THE MOST IMPORTANT SINGLE ASPECT OF THAT ACTIVITY
IS THE DISTRIBUTION OF SPECIAL PUBLICATIONS IN THE SCHOOLS--

ESPECIALLY WITH THE TEACHERS at the ELEMENTARY-SECONDARY LEVELS.

IN THE LAST 300 YEARS -— MAN HAS DESTROYED FOREVER

AT LEAST 130 ANIMAL SPECIES --— and over 230 SUB-SPECIES.
THIS WAS TRULY THE WORK OF MAN, AND ACTS OF MAN

THAT ARE FAR MORE FINAL THAN THE DEATH OF ANY ONE MAN.

One facet of this -- we have not done enough about -- is helping our Biomedical

Research Labratories to meet the costs of living up to the Requirements

of these new Laws.

 




Tile Directors 0t. tine Animag Weat‘are institute

request tEIe Loner ot‘ your Presence

at the Presentation 1)

Senator Cinarges ?ercy
o; tile
Schweitzer Awaré {or 1970

to
Boa) Cromie
on Wednesday, tine sixteentE] of December

at {our-thirty o’clock

Saint Jognn’s Parish House, 3240 0 Street, NHW

R.S.V.P.

N‘rs. Roger Stevens Reception {allowing
34410 Que Street, NHW the ceremony

 




 




ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
P. O. Box 3492
GRAND CENTRAL STATION
NEW YORK, N. Y. 1001'?

(21 2) 581-7320

December 4, 1971

Dear Member:

You are cordially invited to attend the annual meeting and 1971
Albert Schweitzer Award ceremony to be held in the United States
Capitol at 3:00 P. M. , December 14, 1971. The presentation will be
made in the Old Senate Chamber, 5228, in the Capitol. Tea will be
served following the ceremony. If you wish to bring a humane friend
with you, you will both be most welcome.

Congressman Thomas S. Foley is this year's medallist.
Senator Warren Magnuson and Senator Henry Jackson will make the
presentation. Congressman Foley's devoted efforts in shepherding
the Animal Welfare Act of 1970 through the House of Representatives
are well known. He has worked to support other bills to protect
animals, too, notably the wild horse bill handled by the Interior
Committee of which he is a member.

Enclosed is a copy of the Twentieth Annual Report of the
Animal Welfare Institute. We hope you are encouraged by the results
of the Institute's efforts for animals during the year. We wish to take
this opportunity to report to you that the Animal Welfare Institute is
now classified by the Internal Revenue Service as a "publicly supported"
exempt organization as described in the Internal Revenue Code rather
than as a ”private foundation. " The ”publicly supported" classification
permits individuals to make tax deductible contributions up to 50% of
their adjusted gross income to the Animal Welfare Institute as compared
with the 20% limitation applicable to gifts to private foundations. It also
means that private foundations may make "qualifying distributions" to
the Institute. Private foundations can advantageously make gifts to the
Animal Welfare Institute. Members who may be acquainted with trustees
of a private foundation may wish to help the Animal Welfare Institute in
its search for funds by bringing this fact to their attention. Your support
is deeply appreciated and badly needed for the continuance of the work.

Sincerely,

(.4. z; f5...

Christine Stevens
President

 




Miss Nan M. Phillips
81 Seventh Avenue
Troy, New York 12180
January 23, 1970

Miss Christine Stevens
President, Animal Welfare Institute
c/o 5410 Q Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20007

Dear Miss Stevens:
I am writing with regard to the annual Albert Schweitzer Medal

which the Animal Welfare Institute awards each year for outstanding
humane accomplishment.

 

If it is at all possible, I would like to submit to your
organization that this award be granted to a woman in my community ~-
Mrs. Edna-Ann Senecal -- whom I have had the honor of becoming acquainted.
If you will read the enclosed newspaper clipping from the Albany, New York,
KNICKERBOCKER NEWS, Saturday, January 17, 1970, it tells briefly why I
feel this woman is more than worthy to be a recipient of such award. Over
the past year, I have been a lay volunteer at this shelter. I visit once
a week and have come to both love and respect the great dedication of this
woman. She is a unique individual!

If you wish more information, or if there are other preliminary
procedures required, I shall be more than glad to cooperate in this regard.

Respectfully,

f»,
0‘ "xi NV ' . a
2AM? ” v ‘"
fj in“? ‘

ii

“I; g a ; it I 3 ’4. afﬁl

Nan M. Phillips

 




' ‘I ‘ .. Saturday, adorn l7”

 

41. . 1.11..“ _ ..‘L
. ‘.-":_~"7.'r ‘

. ,appzness Is — — ~21
‘ 1 :3 . ’ ‘ , ‘ ‘ '5 . w : H. 1-

By BARBARA MADDAUS

YOU’D TiiWis, A grandmothei three times over Would sit
111 front of an (A; AeAA fire place 011 these cold and Windy nights,
slppmg a t-oddy, 1A11Ayhe With a lazy kitty curled up in her lap.
But net Edna- Ann Senecal ‘

.; ., Turn and smart, she" s house-mother for more than 500
‘ dais, 200 Sets, severzil horses and numerous little creatures at
l I a place she calls Esterville, a rather event-guard! animal
Atshelter 111 Greenﬁeld Center, just outside Saratoga Springs. ‘

:. .. She s also their keeper—«up at the crack of daWn feeding
’ ..— {Aer hungry blood, Arninisterine to their sick needs and cleaning
‘1 ‘Q’Ali‘le‘ut their pens All this takes until supertime Or as one oi her
” apart-«time helpers commented “It takes a lo-ng time to teed
200 animals

.1? .

i . VENINQS are devoted to lett 1: writing asking for help

Money is an important commodity £01 Mrs. S'enecal who runS

‘. ,i':~__':te1;v111e completely supported ‘by donations of people who
. ' e animals the Way she does.

5

The help she gets takes many forms. A Saratoga
1,5,. veterlnarian donates his Saturdays to Esterville tending to
these in the “infirmary. ”A . . ,

A lady in Saratoea provides Anoney Afor Spaying some of
.. ,.the animals some people pay part of the food bill; many
make contiibu'tion » A,
'7‘}. . _ ‘A ‘
_~| ‘i” it _ 1k
. LSTERVILLE named after “a dog Who sewed Mrs.
E Senecal’s Ason’ SA life when he was only a baby, Was established
11111952. It’Son 510 acres of wooded land and originally. had only

1 a house and harn’:

It noW boasts 10 other buildings-wan infirin-ary, kennels for

‘A dogs and a special building for cats that is equipped with lots

. ' of cat-size doors so “they wen’t be so confined.” Aiso
scattered 111111112. property are, literally, a hundred doghouses.

But Mrs. Senecal in a typical feminine iashion, Wishes

} that Este1v1lle lacked thetter on the outside.

"‘I Wish it looked nicer. Animals don’t notice that sort of
thing-nae long as they’ re loved, lied and warm. I know what’s

f‘ Awrong With the place, but I don’t have the hands Ato‘ correct it ” "

She’sald ‘ ..U. . A . AAA"

2 ‘ .7 -,A 2 .
. . A ,. ‘. ,‘J . .V , . v
' A . . . . A '.‘ 1 A
-‘ . . I ,1 ,_ 'A._ .. . ‘!.:
' ,. A _ l' . A, . z ..,'A . A. ‘1 4 y
‘ . , 1 - ..» A .1 1 ». V . 1‘. . n
. ' ~ , . 1 .- . ,. - - ,. - . .4 , A, 1. -. 1 . . . 1‘ ,
. , ' A -'v . A . A ' 1‘ , .
I A A. ,. .'- ,2 . '4 'r '

{WA '4' .

.A‘~

mightildikn »

Happiness is .* . ’

They greet her affectionately With a- Weight“: ‘
happy wet lick or a contented purr and a 11111.1

Perhaps they know that she has refused
to use them for experimentation or that she
destroyed because their number increase.
homes for them. ‘ ' " ‘

What does her famlly think? V I
“They think I’m crazy Yo

. kéipt ASHE-ye.” .

 




 

 

n
r
e
K
s
n
K
D
M.
a
Dr
V.
b
S
0
t
O
h
D:
r
a
t
5
n
.w
n
U

 




 

I)

e bigblack And White dog‘trying‘to snuggle close is E
~ x

 




ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
P. 0. Box 3492
GRAND CENTRAL STATION

NEW YORK, N. Y. 1001?

(212) 581-7320

Dear Members and Friends:

You are cordially invited to attend the Albert Schweitzer Award
Ceremony and annual meeting of the Animal Welfare Institute, December
16th at h:30 P.M. St. John's Parish House, 32u0 "O" Street, N.W.,

Washington, D.C.

Bob Cromie, whose hard- ~hitting criticism.of cruelty in his
Chicago Tribune column has brought about important reforms in the

treatment of animals, will be the 1970 Schweitzer Medallist. Senator
Charles Percy will present the award to Mr. Cromie.

A reception will follow the ceremony. we hope you can come.

(Kn QCord allij/Dii
Christine tevens, President

 




 

SﬁPTEMSER

MR. 899 CROMCE

THE Cascaao TRIQUNE

K3? NQRTH MLEBSGAN Avamus
CHICAGG, iLLiNOIS 60631

 

QEAR 808:

i WAS BELiaHTED T9 REAQ YOUR CQLUMN ABOUT THE Roawms; AND THE
RESULTﬁ, AQAfN, HAVE BEEN SPECTAcuLAR: NO smoortme a? Roaxmsl

.5
ﬂauna vow BE WtLLiNG TO LENS YOUR gmoamaus INFLUENCE TO ENDSNG
THE SHAMEFUL EXPLDS§VE HARPQQNtNG a? WHALES BY THE JAPANESE?
ENSLOSEB :3 AN ADVANCE 009? 9? THE MATERtAL WE‘LL SHORTLY as
SENDiNG OUT TO SEEK aw ervzcvtvs aevcch 0? JAPANESE 30033 UNTSL
A azcsssam as REACHEQ THAT JApAN WtLL JQiN THE REST or THE WQRLD
tN & MORATORSUM mm CQMMERCIAL wHALENe F09 YHE NEXT TEN YEARS.

AT THE iNTERNATiGNAL wHALxme COMM13320N 3N Lomoaw, :T BECAME
CLEAR THAT ALTHGUQH THE RUSS£ANS HAVE BEEN JUST AS BiFFfOULT As
THE JAPANESE, THEY ARE PREPARED To MAKE CONCESSiONS. twagzo, IT
WAS THE Ruas¢ams WHO SUGGESTED A PHASEmOUT‘GN THE KiLLtNG 8F FIN
WHALES QM THE ANTARoTsommavam THOUGH THEY voraa AGAsNST 3T1 THE
AR?#CLES IN TFME AND THE CﬁazsrtAg Sosemcz ﬁawavom wsLL PROEABLY
atvz YQU THE sacxaaouma veu NEED; Eu? :9 THERE gs ANVTHtNe ELSE
You WGULQ L£KE re KNOW aaaur THE INTERNATQONAL ﬁHALima COMMiSSEON
msartma AND THE PLANS THAT A NUMBER or CONSERVATﬁow oaeszzartoms
ARE mow WORKtNG our, PLEASE CALL ME COLLECT AT 202~557~2552.
ALSO, 3? you QONYT HAVE & 009v or ”THE Songs or THE HUMPBACK
@HALE," as sung ?0 LET Ma KNOW, AND l'LL SEND you ONE. THAT :3
gAstc ?9 THIS WHQLE EFFORT. ﬁz GAVE GQPtES TO REPRESENTATIVEB
6? EACH or THE 92 wa7tems THAT CAME TO THE OQNFERENCE 0N ENDAN~
azaaa SPEGtES AT THE STATE SEPARTMENT EARLY TH£S YEAR, AND {T

wag womagRFuL T0 SEE THE 8AS!C REACTlGN THAT :1 CAUSED.

ALL THE Bast,

SENCERELY,

JﬁzLH

ENCLOSURE$

 




3/ /"./< /////I (/5:(/(‘) 

/ZCZL{L¢/ ’

_/ A MK
//k[ j/LZ“VLI.
/m/,L ////

m" ,1./,//, . / ¢.

/ // z
m/

 




ii'year 11,

' “(ﬂ-mm

Bob Cromie

 

Now the r0 1
becomes a target

.1. ROBINS MAY BE scarce inmlllinois
gland other parts of this country next

the Canadian government

Li‘aﬁgrees to a demand by fruit-growers to

iipermit 'a massive slaughter of those
1 [Amigratory birds to protectmin particu-
Z‘glar——-the blueberry crop.

Lewis Regenstein, national director

{of the Fund for Animals, has sounded
the alarm in hopes that the Canadian
1:", project will be buried by an avalanche
of protests. Regenstein points out that
ﬁv“an aggressive peaticide spraying pr0~
ﬁgram” conducted in the Maritime prov-
inces of Canada eliminated many of the

insects on which the migrating robins
normally feed, thus forcing them to

seek other provender.

Canadian blueberry growers—instead

fof covering their crops with protective

f-nets, as is done in the blueberry~growx

ing areas of the United States—have

‘simply been killing the birds

One
:jfarmer admitted having destroyed 7,000

robins over a ZOO-acre area

NOW, HOWEVER, the growers are

:attempting to have the killing of the
1:;robin sanctioned by government per-
:jmit, which would result in the estimat-
ﬁfed loss of tens of thousands of them.

I“

Ister,

Regenstein comments:

“The robin is probably America’s
:‘most popular songbird and is the state
fir-bird of Connecticut, Michigan, and Wis-
consin. It is thought to keep its mate
:and to return to the same area to nest
:year after year. The annual return of
these beautiful Caroling birds is a tradi-
tional sign that spring has arrived.”

In case you care to register a protest
against the Canadian slaughter of a
bird which is after all, a resident both
Igin that country and our own, Regen-

:steinﬁ suggests that you write _or wire
‘ijierre Trudeau, Canada’s prime min- «
I the environ-1
~ 2' ment minister, in Ottawa, Canada. '

and Jack Davis,

Personally, I shall quit eating Cana—
dian blueberries if the robin-murder is

authorized. I can do without blueber-

ries far more happily than I can do
without those fat and perky birds.

SINCE MANY HUNTERS have no re- A

1 k

I est

gard whatever for the things they kill,
another animal indigenous to this con-
tinent now is in danger. Rep. William 1
W'hitehurst [R., Va], who seems to be
the congressman most concerned about
wildlife, has just asked Secretary of
the Interior Rogers Morton to place the _,
grizzly bear on the endangered species
list and to order a ban on hunting this
giant animal in all national forests, not
just a handful.

Whitehorst quoted Interior Depart-
ment figures estimating that fewer
than 1,000 grizzlies remain in the United
States. 1

“This magnificent giant, the strong-
land mammal in North America
and one of the most intelligent,” White- ,
hurst said, “has been reduced in num- _
bers to a shameful degree. In little "
more than a hundred years . . man
has reduced the grizzly population from ‘
about 1.5 million to less than 1,000. No
creature can suffer such losses and be
expected to survive . . . Already 16
different species and subspecies have
become extinct. . . . 1

“High-powered rifles, steel-jaw traps,
poison, and ‘management programs’
have been more than the grizzly can
withstand . . . AdditiOnally, those bears
relocated to other areas surrounding ,
[protected] national forests often fall.
prey to ‘trophy hunters ’ ”

THE GRIZZLY IS protected in Wash-
ington, Idaho, and Colorado, Whitehurst ~..
said, adding wryly that the 191111 grizzly ,
population in those states probably was 1
about 2.01:“

one with a strong stomach is?
)trﬁgleld to read the recent United Action
for Animals [509 5th Av., New York
City 10017] roundup of animal 'experir
mentation conducted: in the name of 1
higher education. It .is a listing of repe-‘ f
titious and—in my opinion completely
useless—experiments, which include
electric shock, starvation, poisoning,
and other Dachau-like deviltries. f

There seems little doubt, perusing ‘
the data, that some “sc1ent1sts” also”

e sadists. '

 




ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
P. 0. Box 3492
GRAND CENTRAL STATION

NEW YORK, N. Y. 1001?

(212) 581-7320

Dear Members and Friends:

You are cordially invited to attend the Albert Schweitzer Award
Ceremony and annual meeting of the Animal Welfare Institute, Ebcember
16th at u: 30 P. M. St. John's Parish House, 3240 "O" Street, N. w.

Washington, D. C.

Bob Cromie, whose hard- ~hitting criticism of cruelty in his
Chicago Tribune column has brought about important reforms in the
treatmentm of animals, will be the 1970 Schweitzer Medallist. Senator
Charles Percy will present the award to Mr. Cromie.

A reception will follow the ceremony. we hope you can come.

(A :tCord ally:
Christine tevens, President

 




is, 55“.”! ’
5 ~' 41W; /

i I’ll/3V1!

1“, , ‘

12 Section 1 .

.J'
.- 1'

”if

Bob Qromtc

 

Chicago Tribune, Saturday, January 19, 1974,

Man S inhumanity
to leSsci animals

THE NEED for a‘ nationwide law
governing animal experimentation—or
for a new one if such a law already
exists—is imperative. My personal
opinion is that many of the experi~
ments being conducted are supervised by
sadists, idiots, or those greedy for the
federal grants involved. '

Wilfred Beaver of Sparta, Wis, is
among those worked up at the moment
by the stubborn efforts of the U. S. Air
Force to use 200 beagles in eXperi—.
ments to be conducted. in, I believe,
Dayton. He writes:

- “This letter is directed toward those
who are animal lovers and to taXpay-
ers who wonder where their money is

going.

“PART OF the funds allotted to our
Defense Department has been given for
experiments on living animals in Army
laboratories thruout the country, and
dogs are being used to test chemical
varfare gases. Many know that the Air
Force is buying 200 debarked beagle
puppies to use in tests in Ohio. News of
this caused thousands of protest letters
to pour into the Pentagon but this did
not deter the testing and killing. In
addition it was announced in an Army
letter that 400 more beagles will be
used in experiments in Army laborator~
ies in Maryland.

‘Rep. Les Aspin [D., Wis], aware of
my background and seeking support,
has sent me information about these
tests. An Army letter that Aspin “re-
leased publicly states that these pedia
greed beagles, bought at today’s high
prices, would be used ‘in a .variety of
research and testing programs’- involv-
ing poisonous gases. Among those gas-
es are the riot control and new ‘binary’
types which will incapacitate any living
creature in a painful and numbing way.

“If you feel the least bit‘concerned
about this experimenting or if you are
more concerned that the Pentagon is
continuing chemical warfare gas tests

on living things or if you don’t want.

' your tax dollar to be spent on su c h
things, write your individual protests
to: The Honorable James R. Schlesin-
ger, Secretary of Defense, Pentagon,
Washington, D. C.” .'

Beaver is not alone. The National

Anti-Vivisection Society has. been. using

. to prevent the Air Force, eXperiment.
from using the beagles, and their Suit,.f‘ﬂ

is about to be taken to a higher court

after dismissal by a lower one which ~

ruled a lack of jurisdiction.

In addition to heated protests from
many other animal groups, including
the Fund fér Animals, headed by
Cleveland Amory, the Board of Super-
visors of the City and County of San
Francisco passed a resolution last Mon-
day against the use of the beagles “and
other domesticated animals for experi-
ments to determine exposure limits for
humans to rocket propellants, jet fuels,

' and toxic off-gassing products.”

The county board resolution urged
that the Air Force “set an example of
prOper care and treatment of animals,

particularly for young people who are :

encouraged to respect military agen-
cies. ” ‘

Beagles, a favorite with animal ex-
perimenters fbr an ironic reason—they
are among the most friendly and for-
giving of dogs—have been abused on
many other dubious occasions. I recall
one experiment a few years ago in
which a couple of scientific types tor-
mented beagle puppies until they
fought with each other. The reason?

.iThe tormentors were making a study of _

juvenile delinquency!

ONE OF the most upsetting offshoots f

of the Air Force tests is that one serv-
ice-spokesman, trying to head off fur-
ther attacks, suggested that perhaps
swine could be used instead, which to
me indicates a shocking failure to un-
derstand the rationale behind the pro-
tests: That needless cruelty to any liv-
ing thing should be anathema.

If you’d like further horrifying exam-
ples of man’s inhumanity to lesser ani-
mals, incidentally, look into the treat-
ment given to all "kinds of animals—
from mice to horses—in motion pictures
made overseas, both by foreign and

United States film companies. Let me

amend my opening paragraph:
Laws and agreements governing the
treatment of animals in eXperiments,

the making of movies, or in Someone’s "

backyard,- ”should be international. It

seemsobvious that some scientists no
longer are content with the use of low- ‘

er animals, in, view of recent. 'eXperi-

ments conducted on inmates of prisons ‘ r

and other institutions, and the quicker
this Nazi mentality is curbed the bet-

\

l

 




I
3
i

Bob Cromie

 

R0eos are fun
but also inhumane

THE LONGER I am around the more
I favor laws which would forbid any
spectacle in which animals are forced
to perform. Themost recent impetus to
my thinking comes from a “Special
Report on Rodeos,” issued by the Hu-
mane Society of the United States,
which carried some pretty convincing
evidence that while rodeos may be fun
for the most thoughtless spectators, or

those making money from them, the .

animals involved would be happier-—
and safer—elsewhere.

There are photographs of cowboys
lassoing and throwing calves; of a
steer—roped by head and-hind legs si-
multaneouslyubeing tugged in opposite
directions at the same time, of an in-
jured animal being hauled from the
arena on a large tractor-drawn sled.
And there is this cynical response by a
spokesman for the International Rodeo
Association learning that the Humane
Society had done a two-year study on
rodeos and their effects on animals:

“What this means is that their future
attacks on rodeos will be presented as
the results of a scientific study. This
means rodeo people will be required to
deal more with facts than in the past.”

HERE IS what one witness, appear-
ing before the Colorado legislature
earlier this year during hearings on a
bill to ban roping and ‘busting’ of ani-
mals in rodeos, said:

“Nobody wants to see these animals
hurt, but that’s how we make our mon-
ey. And we all want to make money.”

The Humane Society’s report men-
tions the powerful lobbies which can be
mounted by the Rodeo Cowboys Associ-

ation and the International Rodeo Asso‘.

ciation, one of whose joint defenses is

' that any rodeo sanctioned by them

must obey strict rules. the

H. S. U. S. report states:
“What they do not mention is that

only approximately 30 per cent of all

rodeos conducted in the United States

But,

- are sanctioned by either association.’

The report cites the sickening case of
a bucking horse, which was hurt during
a rodeo in Pocatello, Idaho, last July 4,
and was dragged away [without any-
thing between it and the ground] so

-304...

that its hind legs became entangled in

the. exit fence. Spectators booed as sev-
eral rodeo workers pulled the horse by
the tail to free its legs. A loudspeaker
appeal then was issued for a Veterinari-
an [none was in attendance] and one
who came from the stands diagnosed
the injury as a broken back and urged
that the horse be destroyed.

This was not done until the following
morning, hOWe‘ver, when the still suf-
fering horse finally was shot by a rodeo
hand, who borrowed a policeman’s pis-
tol. The herse took a long time dying,
since the shot was poorly aimed. ‘

Among injuries documented during
the H. S. U. S. investigation were bro-
ken legs, sores, open wounds, abra-
sions, spur marks, and broken horns.
But these were only the visible ones.
Hidden injuries, especially to a roped
and ‘busted’ c a If , often include:
Bruised and hemorrhaging tissues,
ruptured tracheal blood vessels and
breathing difficulties, bruising of carti-
lage in the larynx, and bruising and
bleeding of the thymus gland. The in-
vestigators cataloged “visible” injuries
to more than 10 per cent of all steers
involved in “busting” contests, a
“sporting”. event already banned in
Texas, by the way. ‘

THE H. S. U. S. also charges that the
flank strap, placed on a bronco, is put
the-re solely to torment the animal into
bucking, because it is so painful, and
that in recent months it has become
almost impossible for an “outsider,”
which means anyone who may be crit-
ical of the event, to enter the chute
area where electric prods and other
mechanical devices are used to excite
the animals. And here is a final para-
graph worth framing:

“It is ironic that man, the only living

' creature capable of reason, sets out to

torment, injure, and kill other Crea-
tures as tho they were. created only for
his amusement. The Humane Society of
the United States believes all creatures
have a purpose and value of their own
and that it is man’s reSponsibility to
respect all forms of life.”

Anyone who gets his kicks watching
something suffer is either subhuman or
on the way there.

@5522; 3/ ﬂ)

 




rSecﬁonwi

Chicago Tribune, Saturday. September 8.1973 ‘

 

A Forum for Ideas. Analysis. and Diverse Opinions

I do not agree with a word that you say, but I will defend
to the death your right to say it.

‘  ~Voltqire;

Opinions expressed by writers and cartoonists on this page
are their own and frequently may conflict with those The Tribune I
expresses on the editorial page. Where free speech is respected,
contrasts in opinion become news.

 

Bob Cromic

 

Coonhound races _
tarnish State Fair

2"] IT MAY be naive of 111e, but I’ve
7:;always thought that any really good
i’EState Fair should, somehow, serve as a
‘ishowcase for the things that me worth-
JVhile and decent I hope Whoever runs
the Illinois State Fair will have this in
“mind next year if the cha1 acte1s who
Operate what seemingly we called
“Coonhound Water Races” apply for
readmission. .
My suggestion is [ll to throw them
out on their ears, after having given
them a brief sermon on decency; and
I2l 'to telephone the nearest animal
welfare group to see whether the rac-
3*coons they employ in this sadistic
~' “sport” can’t be rescued and returned
to the wilds.

3; I would have suggested-that someone
guery the Illinois Department of Con-
Servation as to the legality of abusing
raccoons in this fashion, except that
the “races” were held on the fair
grounds in an area operated by that
particular department.

NOW I HAVE not seen a coonhound
water race, nor do I have any desire to
do so. But I am in receipt of an angry
letter from, someone wishing to, be
known as “an anonymous but shocked

state fairgoer” who gives the following 1-

description of the thing:

“What a sport! Coonhound water
races. Consider a couple hundred long-
legged coonhounds creating a cacopho-
”ny 0f haying and yapping and'howling.
Their burly owners are bellowing and
shouting as they watch the dogs thresh-
ing about in the watei.
midst of it all is one small, terrified,
caged raccoon. »

¢’ “. . -. There were about 200 dogs
Iroin 12 or more states in the ‘contest,’
home of the dogs reportedly valued at

tip to $8, 000 each. Oddly enough, the“

races were staged on a loo-yard long
flake on the west side of. the fairgrounds
in a section operated by the Illinois

bepartment of Conservation.

3 “This pint- sized raccoon was con-
fined in a cage that looked mo small

And in the '

for a canary. The cage was affixed to
two small pontoons so that at times it
could float on the water, and the whole

contraption was hooked to a cable
stretching across the lake and connect-
ed to a tall tree at one end.

“At the opposite end were four cages
to hold as many dogs. The caged coon
was hauled in on the cable until it was
a few feet from the dogs. They were

allowed to sniff the coon, setting up a

great howling and barking as they did
so. Then the coon was pulled away,
toward the tree at the far end, while
the dogs were turned loose to leap into
the water and paddle furiously after
their quarry. I never did learn precise-
1y how the scoring was done, but the
winners were picked from the first
dogs to swim the lake and the first
dogs to ‘tree’ the coon.

“This went on all day for two days 1n
the broiﬁig sun as th— coon was hauled
back and forth across the lake. Of
course, the dogs can never touch the
coon, but the coon doesn’t know that.
He is terrified, I suspect, thinking
every yap he hears will be his last, and
must be badly exhausted by each trip
across the lake. ,

“APPARENTLY NONE of the dog
owners consider the coon’ s feelings
very important. One official was asked,
‘Do you ever get any complaints from
the Humane Society?’ He turned his
back and snorted, ‘Don’t talk to me {
about the Humane Society!’ as he walked
away. “

“Officials and contestants said they
hope to return next year and make the.

. fair a regular stop on the rounds of '

wherever they hold such events. Per-
SOnally, I think the fair should knock it '
off, even tho it was held in such a

‘ relatively remote area that few fair-

goers got to see it. It was strictly for: .

-‘ degs and their owners, but I should~

think someone -- perhaps Gov. Walker
-—~wou1d be interested in this obvious
abuse of a wild animal. ”

I ShOuld think, so too. Especially if a-
few people drop Gov. Walker 3 line.

 




 

to charity appeal

. - OPENING THE MAIL:

. “I agree with your article [on hunger
and the elderly] and always thought it
was a lot of nonsense telling poor wom-
1 en they didn’t know how to budget or
plan. A B. A. in domestic, arts can’t do
. either without a dime in her pocket.
' You have the money or you don’t eat——
it’s as simple as that. I never did hold
with the idea that all poor people
went wild in the gourmet section. . . .”
Oak Park housewife

It’s always easier to give advice on a
full stomach, and especially easy—in
this particular field—if you’ve never
been hungry. Personally, I prefer a
“bleeding heart” to a person with none,
altho I believe I’ve used that line be-
fore.

“Your article on the Emergency
Fund for the Needy has generated con-
tributions ranging from $1 to $400 and
from as far away as Kansas City, Mo.,
totaling approximately $1,100 as of the
afternoon mail. . . . Thank you for the
exposure.”

.Pat Wehner, 3d Floor,
Stone Container Building,
Chicago 60601

i A later figure is $1,600 and counting,
the money to be used for emergency
aid to the city’s poor administered by
a small group of welfare mothers who
make detailed reports to the Chicago
businessmen who—anonymously—are
supporting the program thruout the
year. Thanks to them and to those
readers who contributed.

“In behalf of all humane—minded peo-
ple, and especially the 12 thousand
members of the Vilas-Oneida Wilder-
ness Society, of which I am president,
we thank you for your article ‘Coon-

hunt Races Tarnish State Fair.’ It is
surprising to me the number of Tribune \
readers who sent your article to me.

. I am writing Gov. Walker, the Illiu
nois Conservation Department and oth-
ers. . . .

“As‘I dictate this, a three-mo‘nth-old .
orphaned fawn is curled up at my feet
next to my St. Bernard, Bernese. Obvi-
ously we have our own problems in
Wisconsin. It is hard to believe that the
sadistic Department of Natural Re-

' sources and the Conservation, Depart»

ment of Wisconsin legalized the hunting
of baby fawns less than four months of
age, beginning Sept. 15 and continuing
to January 1, except for the nine-day
rifle season. The foliage is still on the
trees and brush and knowledgeable
people believe that not more than one
out of ten is recovered when wounded,
many of them dying of thirst and
starvation.

“The Mickey Mouse archers who
have the audacity to call themselves
s p o r t s m e n deal out unbelievable
cruelty. . . .” '

Carl Marty,
Northernaire, Wis.

No comment seems necessary here.

“All Good Wishes for Christmas and
the New Year. Ami, Jamie and Bill
Pullinsi, Candlelight Playhouse-Forum
Theatre.”

I was startled to get such wishes so
early and checked the postmark This
is a card that I received sometime last
December which still is on my desk.
Perhaps all those to whom I owe let-
ters they never will get will pardon me
when they realize what a state my cor-
respondence is in. Mea culpa and a
dandy 1974.

 




 

Lose

A bill to legalize the use of live ani-
mals includmg cats and dogs, in Supei-
.V’ised highﬁschool science experiments
involving the use of drugs, anesthesia,
and surgery, is now pending before the
Illinois legislature.

Even if the idea had merit—which is
highly debatablen-the p r o p o s e d bill
should be defeated. It is, in the words of
one opponent who works for the Chicago
Board of Education, “loose as ashes, a
weak and vague bill which aggravates
our problems instead of solving them.”

The legislation, House Bill 3610, is
sponsored by Rep. Bruce Douglas [D.,
Chicago], an oral Surgeon; Rep. Norbert
Springer [R., Chester], an optometrist;
and Rep. David Shapiro {R., Amboy],
also a dentist. It is, nonetheless, com-
pletely toothless, and offers no penalties
for violation of its poorly-formulated
provisions. A Chicago attorney with
whom I checked on this point said:

“There is’nothing I can see in the bill
‘ which would prevent any youngster
from hanging an animal by its heels and

p, ment.”

3-1;;Educator Opposes Bill

Thomas A. Maloney, science fair co-
> ordinator for the Board of Education,
, who termed the bill, “weak and vague,”
, add-ed :
‘ ‘ , “If this is passed it will be mayhem.
There will be cat and dog cadavers all
' over the place. Experimentation of this
.' sort on vertebrate animals should be
. T‘E’Ompletely barred in the schools-“pub-
lief,“ private, and parochial—and those
few gifted Students permitted to observe
, Or take part in such work should do so
only in university or medical and indus-
trial laboratories under supervision of
highly qualified personnel. This would
mean that maybe 12 or 14 youngsters
from—let us say—the North Side, would
be allowed to take part in such experi—
ments—not 40, 00.0. ”

Maloney said the schools already are
having problems trying to prevent com—
pletely uncalled for and useless experi-
ments which, he believes, the proposed
bill would increase tremendously.

“We’ve been squelching a lot of our
students and the teachers too,” he went
on. “Some of the teachers think they
have a lot of budding Louis Pasteurs
'on their hands. I wouldn’t even let some-
one in graduate school fool around with
some of the things these kids are doing.
But some of those we’ve stopped say:
‘Okay, I’ll never study science again.’
We tell them: ‘Fine. You’ re the type we -
don’ t need.’

“A pro-posed law like this is a bunch of
nonsense. The students should get basic
concepts down first before attempting
to do live research. Then, too, some kids

1 can’t stomach such experiments, while

the ones who don’t care for science but

, like to cut up animals really need to be

watched.”

, Parents Threaten Suits
cutting it up and calling this an experi- .

Allen A. Glisch, manager of the Illi-
nois Citizens’ Animal Welfare League,
said his group has had many cemplaints
from parents of students [presumably in
private or parochial schools]. whose
youngsters have been asked to carve up
live animals. Some, he said, threatened
suit if their children were failed in sci—7
ence for refusing to experiment on an-
imals.

Dr. Douglas, in a letter to a neighbor-
hood newspaper complaining about an

' attack on the bill by Leonard Dubkin, '

Chicago naturalist, wrote:
.let me make it clear for the rec—
0rd that I have three cats, a dog, 14_
gerbils, two big bowls of fish and a few
other odds and ends of live animals in
and adjacent to my‘home. I love the
little creatures. . . .
“And to assume that allowing prop-
erly trained biologists and physiologists
to use live animals for teaching pur-

 

pesesWlllleadtoabusesofthlsprwﬂege ,




 

‘ 0:

i J. L. HUDSON Co., the big Detroit
department store, may be about to quit
" selling wolf-fur coats, and may also

": have torefund the full purchase price

" of all such garments recently sold in
‘ _ contravention of Michigan law.

The monthly newsletter of the Cana-
dian and American Wolf Defenders [68

.Panetta Rd., Carmel, Cal. 93924] re-.

ports that in response to complaints
from two Michigan members of the
society, as relayed to Michigan Rep.
Warren Goemare, author of a Michigan
act preventing commercial use of fur
from endangered Species, the state’
attorney general, Frank Kelley, is suing
Hudson’s to obtain: .

A permanent injunction against the

sale of any produCt derived from.

wolves.

An order to make Hudson’s refund
the price of all coats sold in violation
of the Michigan law, to engage in “cor-
rective advertising,” and to post in its.
stores the following notice:

“The. purchase of a product made
- from animal'fur may contribute to the

eventualextinction of a species of ani~ ,.

y mal and thereby destroy a priceless
segment of our wildlife heritage.”

THE C.A.W.A. also. urges its mem-
bers and everyone else to protest at-
. tempts by 21 US. senators from West-
ern and Southwestern states to erase
. the executive order signed two, years
1 ago by President Nixon forbidding the
~ use of poison on public lands. The
sheepmen in those states would like to
begin poisoning coyotes again—and co-
incidentally eagles, hawks, owls, ' and
other birds of prey that then feast on
"- the dead coyotes.
The group disputes the 800,000 annual
_' loss figure offered by the sheepmen as
an argument, and says it is their [the
group’s] opinion that the figure is wild-
ly exaggerated and that the sheepmen
.wish to kill all coyotes so that grazing
- on public lands at very cheap cost may
i" be done without the added expense of
hiring herdsmen.
. p, The “Shameless 21,” as the C.A.W.A.
refers to the Senators fronting for the
' ., sheepmen, do not include any from Illi-
f nois. But protests against the resump-
’ tion of poisoning—which also has killed
‘ off “millions” ‘ of prairie dogs—may be
.- sent to Illinois Senators Percy [R] and
StevensOh [D.] at the Senate Office

 

‘ River Bend Rd,

811‘ hides

Building, Washington, DC. 20510, and
Secretary Rogers C. B. Morton De-
partment of the Interior, Washington,
D C 20240. ‘

Cah»

., / e 21, by the way, are: Henry Jack-
son [D., Wash.,-]

George McGovern
[D., S.D.], Mike Mansfield [D., Mont],
Frank Church [D., Idaho], Mark Hat-
field [R., Ore], John Tower [R., Tex],
Roman Hruska [R., Neb], Paul Fanin
[R., Ariz.], Alan Bible [D., Nev.], Lee
Metcalf [D., Mont], Barry Goldwater

[R., Ariz.], Peter Dominick [R., Colo],

Lloyd Bensen [D., Tex], James Abour-
ezk [D., S.D.,] Clifford Hansen [R.,
Wyo.], James McClure [R., Idaho],
Frank Moss [D., Utah], Carl Curt1s
[R., Neb.], Wallace Bennett [R, Utah],

Peter Domenici [R., N. M] .
McGee [D, Wyo Fflfﬁ' I? 12? i1}? 1 '

WW

MEANWHILE, T0 round out this un-
happy summary, the suit by the Ameri-
can Horse Protective Association [629
Great Falls, Va.
22066] and the Humane Society of the
United States, in connection with the
slaughter of wild horses, may be near-
ing a court hearing a year after the
atrocity that inspired that suit.

The two associations are suing a

,, number of federal officials [including
“ Secretary Morton] because of approval

given by the Bureau of Land Manage-
ment to a roundup of wild horses—with
the use of snowmobiles and aircraft for
the purpose of selling the animals for
dog food.

RANCHERS ALLEGEDLY drove 50
to 60 horses into a corral, sewed hog
rings into their noses to inhibit breath-
ing and to make the panicky animals
easier to handle, then—somehow—pen
mitted seven of the horses, one a preg-
nant mare, to leap to theirdeaths over
a nearby cliff.

The associations tracked about 40 Of
the horses to a slaughterhouse in Ne-
braska and a court order saved them
from immediate death, altho only 17
now survive, one a colt born after the
roundup. .

The Suing groups charge that lack of
cooperation by the Justice Department
is delaying hearing of the case, and a
meeting between government and Soci-
ety attorneys will be held with Federal
Judge Thomas A. Flannery in Washing-
ton April 5—exactly one year after the
lawsuit was filed.

 




I,
v.‘

Bab “Gromie ,3. ‘ «1&3.

S

 

THIS IS about Mississippi, and the
cruelties it permits against helpless
dogs, but I hope it also will be read in

Wisconsin, where there have been ef-.

forts to legalize cat and dog auctiOns.
And before Mississippians become an-
gered at'being taken to task by a noné
resident and non-Southerner,
point out that I am simply using mate-
rial from a story in the Memphis
Press-Scimitar” of Sept. ,4, written by
Jim Willis, a reporter for that newspa-
per.

Willis, who visited the monthly trade
day and dog sale at the Ripley [Miss]
fairgrounds last month, estimated that
200 to 250 men from various states
were engaged in buying or selling 1,000
dogs, “many of them tied to a chain-
‘ link fence . .
the open without food, water, or protec-
tion from the sun.”

Among the scenes Willis witnessed
were these:

THE DRIVER of a stalled red pickup
truck, carrying several dogs chained in
the back, leaped among the dogs when
they began fighting and started‘kicking
them with his heavy .bOOts. One
growled at the man, “who stomped it
repeatedly with his heel.”

Twenty dogs tied to a truck bearing
Alabama plates. Three of the dogs-
were tied in such fashion they could
‘ not lie down without choking. One of
.the others, a large white hound, “was
little but" skin and bones.”

Many' of the animals remained caged

all day in trucks with license plates
from Mississippi, Alabama, Tennessee,
Louisiana, Kentucky, Indiana and Illi-
nois. One buyer, who paid $10 each for
two dogs, finally left with about 60

dogs, of all sizes and breeds, in a truck‘

with Alabama plates. The dogs were
crammed into two large crates about a
foot and a half tall, and had no room to
turn around, as “heads, tails and paWs
stuck out between the wooden bars.”
Willis visited the sale, a tradition dat-

' C/tﬂ'274) j/it/dmjﬂ @C

,let me '

. or chained to stakes in ‘

ing back to 1828: at the request of the
Mississippi Animal Rescue League aft-
er the organization was told that fol-

“lowing the previous sale July 30 several

persons said they had seen Ripley po-
lice “shoot and then beat to death "ani-
mals which were not sold.”

Willis questioned a Ripley police offi-
cial after the September sale and was
told:

“This is purely a health matter for
Ripley, We ’do not have a city- dog
pound. The dogs that are left over are
mangy and sick for the most part, not
fit for purchase by the laboratory or to
make a pet. Yesterday we had about 25 ,
dogs leftover. I personally saw that,
several of the better ones were given to

_ people I knew. The others we'tried to

destroy—we shot about half of them,
the rest got away and are roaming the
streets. .”

STEPHEN BYRD“, a M.A.R.L. vﬁiun-

‘ teer, said he was sure that many of the

dogs were stolen, because “most are
full grown and in surprisingly good
health. You «just 'can’t afford to feed a
puppy until it’s grown, haul it from
Illinois or Indiana, and then sell it for

‘ $10 or $15 ”

It is suspected that many of the dogs
are bought for resale to laboratories
for experimental purposes.

' Seemingly the only law applying to

, such spectacles is one making“‘.\unnec-

essary cruelty” a, misdemeanor. Noth-
ing, Byrd says, is mentioned in the
statute about chaining dogs in the blaz-
ing sun without shade or water.
Anyone wishing to register a com-
plaint with Gov. William L. Waller may

. write him at the New Capitol Building, -

Jackson, Miss. 139205, a building which '
is —I suspect—air-conditionedand plen-~~
'tifully supplied with drinking water.
Further information may be‘ had from
Mrs. Victor Clark, corresponding secre-
t a r y , Mississippi Animal Rescue

League, Box 11264, Delta Station, Jack—

son, Miss. 39213.

[9(1 :7, /7 7,3

 




 

ﬂhiragn’ @rihnue

{HIE WORLD’S GREATEST?
NEWSPAPER

B. 767,793 SUN. 1,016,275

NOV 171971 amt

fBob Cromiei M

’ Using Live

a?! .

in Science Projects

' LI quote from the October, 1970, issue
of The Science Teacher which carried
3 an “open letter on the uses of live ani-
mals in science teaching.”

“Biology, being the study of life, can-
not be taught properly without utilizing
living plants and animals. The use of
‘ living animals in the. classroom entails

a serious responsibility. Students and-

teachers are obligated to handle living
‘ animals humanely and kindly . . .

“We therefore encourage and support
“ science teachers in the proper use of
: living animals in the classroom. The
‘ association strongly urges teachers, ad-
‘ minstrators, parents, boards of educa-
1 tion, and public officials to nullify re-
, strictive legislation regarding the use
1 of living animals so as to make it possi-
ble for science instruction to become a
more effective educational experience
for students.”

Here Are Two Projects

High-sounding words, right? Now
consider how well two recent expgri-
1 ments, conducted by high school stu-
dents, fulfill the guidelines laid down——
‘ “to handle living animals humanely
5 and kindly.”

Both projects were among prize win-
. ners in the Tomorrow’s Scientists and
; Engineers program, to which the Hum-
: ble _ Oil & Refining Company lends
j financial support. Both were conducted
under the eye —— presumably, the ap-
proving eye—of the teacher, tho The Sci-

not giVe details of the experiments.

However, F. Barbara Orlans, a
trained biologist who works with the
Animal Welfare Institute, wrote the
winners and received replies from one
of them—the 17-yearéold— whose work
consisted of experiments on pregnant
mice.

The project had a name: “Studies on
the Production 0f Cleft Palate and Cleft
Lip in the Embryos of Female Mice
Treated with Corticosterone” -- which
translates into this:

“The purpose was to see if a foreign

' :1

substance, not normally present in the -
body of mice, would, when injected into 1
pregnant mice, cause facial deformities ;
in the babies. Accordingly, pregnant an-
imals were injected with various doses
of corticosterone and the incidence of
deformed babies determined.

“The youngster’s reportstates, ‘in or-
der to prevent cannibalism ' by the ‘
mother’ the animals were killed on the
18th day, of pregnancy. Cannibalism
usually occurs only when ' animals are ,
improperly housed, poorly fed, oro'ther-
Wise inadequately looked after. A" total
of 30 pregnant animals were killed for
this student’s project, and 242 babies
were removed ”and beheaded.” A

The Rats Won Out

The other experiment, for which de- ‘
tails are lacking, consisted of attempted
kidney transplants, which were rejected
by the luckless rats involved. ‘

There is more good news for parents
whose youngsters like to behead or
otherwise torture vertebrate animals.

There now are on the market biology
sets and “dissecting kits”-—prices from
$3.99 to $19.99—with which virtually an-
thing can be experimented upon in i
your basement or garage, not just in
school under at least some sort of su-
pervision. a

Buy your kids a dissectingset and

’ raise your own little monsters- Maybe

somebody will give a prize for the most ,

‘ coldblooded kid in town.

ence Teacher for September, 1971, does ‘

~...,,___,..«'

 

 




y . ‘ . I u
‘ ‘ ‘ :vx ”.4 ’ i
‘ f 1"" "‘.. z. I". U- My .
' in, [wisp .1 , “ .
. ‘ '. A ~
h t‘ '1‘" l ' \ ’ ‘ 4 I"
‘-\V 1.13 \- - - K- _I_ ‘

. r ' t,

‘> ,

r

w
3‘
r

 

or im 1
. 3%.“ “x

The timber wolf is an endangered
species, according to the federal gov-

ernment’s own statisticsquhich makes)
it peculiarly enraging that the Depart«
ment of Defense‘Surply A-genxcxis ash:

iﬁaffféifb.i;dzs_ctor.,g,afqiii1ﬁ§1‘f 553 million

l250+099.1..,,...eerie ,,.h0ids_, [with Vidlf ”fur

ruffs' .

Rep. William Whitehurst [Ru Va.]‘;‘--.\
5‘” obviously a man with a warm heart
and a keen eye for the absurd, has

asked the secretary of defense to with-

iWhitehurst points out that according
to the National Wild Life Federation the
parkas, if made to specifications [each

. ruff one and five-eighths inches wide and
’ 45 inches long] would “demand the kill-

, ' ‘ ators, whether those who hunt for mon- ~
ey or those who kill for the sheenenjoy-

u

L .. tions to nature .\ .

ing
“‘iﬁ‘ihliﬁin"°i NthAmeca "*
oﬂih’e Way Out

When you add the indifference of the
Defense Department to the fact that
Alaska has authorized its bounty hunt—
ers to disregard federal legislation
which now forbids huniting of wolves
from the air, it becomes sadly apparent
that unless something is done the tim-

ber wolf is well on the Way to that

‘ happy no—hunting ground already oc'cu- .1
r . pied by so many other already extinct. 12:
,srpecsies; it

Whitehurst, known for his concern for
Wild life, already has intrbduced into

this session of Congress Hi R. 12096, a

bill which would require the Depart:
ment of the Interior to make a com-

” ., phrehensive study of the timber wolf,
‘ . with the idea of developing some means

of saving the animal from human pred-

.ment of killing.

“The timber wolf,” Whitehurst“ com-
ments, “has become the victim of its
own mytholOgy. More is known- about

how thewolf supposedly lives than about ,

his actual requirements of and centribu-
. We will be the

of 25,000»‘__w:olve”S-whichfisivféis'tiinated
to" ”belalifiéiSt ’hial‘fj'iif " the ”remaining wolf 7

poorer for its extinction and. nature will
avenge its demise.” ..

While on the subject of Rep. White-
hurst it should be mentioned that “he
authored the Animal Protection Ad of
1970, and that he has just written Presi—
dent Nixon requesting that the chief
executive discuss an animal protection
treaty with the Russians during his vis~
it to Moscow later this" month. .

Whitehurst reminded the President

’ t that the Soviet Union already has sugé"
‘ draw the bid order and find some suita-
c“ible substitute for wolf fur.

gested an international agreementto
end the killing of polar bears. The con-
gressman himself

with Russia, Canada, Denmark?“
Norway, and other involved nationsf.""‘"3. g,

“Polar bears,” ,Whitehurst “Wrote;
“are truly international creatures-.,They
may cross several countries in'i“i7€l1,eir..
search for food. This move-mentztends
tonegate the protection afforded'byVOne
country if hunters in another are al;
lowed. to kill them. ‘ ‘ -

Credit Where Due

“Credit should be given Where. it is
due, and reports indicate the Soviets

have an outstanding polar bear protec- .
tion program. Slaughter of the 'aniinals , i
.has been banned for some timebﬂqwe

ev§t“whens-therbears.crossthebouggaty .

into Alaska they are,.l¢ge1iga1ne.“Since,m..-
"Russiacannot'béttle up the bearsinits

country, the Soviet Union’s protection
program has become, in effect, a nurs-

ing ground for the American huntersSiV-gi

\All of which reminds me of a televi-
sion show I hosted when the panel in—

cluded both a big game-hunter and. the _.

Princess ,;Pignatelli. The hunter:;"'ex:
plained that it was extremely dangers.

ous “to be on. the ice in the vicinity-éof a j
polar bear, even with gun in hand, ,and. if;
murder in heart. But the Princess was

unimpressed.

“Why did you have to be on the ice..,1n
the first place?”; She asked. Whichﬁgis,r'aifijil:' ”
. Splendid question. “ 5

\ G'M‘..-~‘vmm av»- .. 1 l .

last month introduced ﬁg"...
House Joint 39501“inch1.?9/VVhiéh‘fprogxi-;-' j
‘fir‘ides‘ior ' ’a""‘rn‘oratdfium oﬁ""‘th"é‘fei§ﬁ'gﬁ:i*“ 1,, .

ter 0f p013? bears thru .a jOint treaty ._

1;] ill" V

i
1
1
l.
i
l

 




THE NATIONAL ANTLVEVISEC’E EE} N SQCEET‘E’

100 EAST OHIO STREET, CHICAGO, ELLENOES ($06111

 

SpECIAL 11.11.188.18 MEMBERS BULLE’EEN 1111811111

 

U

58(888811.1E1888(y 3.3.3;

r

Bah C1'8mE8

 

A E11131 E:1 iégaEEZS (he ((88 (1f 2-" . 11-5 . Eria'iemy 811% (he: 88.181118 83.18813. ('1
11.1833 111.;1111531111' 811.8 8118‘; (18138 7 :- L h811'«.11g (rehiems (wing (11 (111888111. (1811(—
(111881 11:31 when} 88181188 8188 E1118 7 1115.811. 13}; (1111'. 81.3.88 17:11; :88 3812374983 SXWFEW
71117838111‘1E3181188 (1E (3.('11§8,11 ‘15 ~. :4 7 111811128: 1-11 18:1 3.18 "7-88 (.118 (181711389 881:};
and (.1111. 1'35!“ 11811? (1811121... .-.. (113118 ' E2"('1...1"d1-1,..1111'
3.17%."? 1118-15. ‘18 (2111118 .1118...171..1g 55
71338811 11” ’EEZS. 161118 (1811 me. 1-»1121'1271151 2;: . each”; “.35
high}? débah. 7'7" huh}: 53Mﬁ;3 35:17.70?! ﬁf? 7‘: 71%;.” 7:81.77 7 " 7' 7:339:73 teacﬁeyﬁ
83.181118 E18 (18-1.. :7 ‘11... ((111811 (E '

(888111 ((183 8111:.
1.11.8.1: '31..-.8 ((188
2131888 ‘WQ‘7E’S (11:8; 1.1 ..
1.11 "81." ((111173: 881111188 (1559531317771.
11121111... 811181318 (1'88 (18

1111831 (1.1.1.1
8111' 33"‘31‘116’131‘3

. p...“

h"! "

<13

(-

pa
.5,

W

(“‘84

«

ECGY‘QCEE E131

Ch'iﬁagh '3'. 8121 (1'11. 811-
1'111881' #ER: C E8332;

21172153. (ES .331” 7

33351.5 (18111

(1182818 888118 ('1.c

(1 01.337.61.71

[burnt
1.8 5.
«r-wﬁ {3:7
’1;
’ ((1

t
)u

(«1' 0’8.

kW." {3"‘7‘1

("18h . ‘
{(11111 E11821" 'f‘ . 73777712788313 3.7
81181.8( 1.. 111:» 88.1 ' , .
-- .~ . 581""
11161731,.” ,. _ 5.
' (8'8 (1.8.1.11 1 8317.878 177.681.2738.
8 888111 3183 E11182 1112-111? ("9.118118%
:11;- (11 8111181118 1111f. 811-1111 111
118((8111111 -111 “8118.1 8
. .3; :11 ((1 11: 11828 1121

732511811188
81 (1.321 218(81' 1 5
W776 777777777 7 777777" “aw-1917' .3775313-6. "(181.18 7311'88Ec'288
1 1. ' ' . .1
77.717173; 515.33 53 .53 3,5651 if; 5 5.555. 111831“? 111 5 283111 WS ((1 fEEIESEE 1115-3
5‘ .1 ‘ ' "'7" ,7 “7 " 7 7.5 7 7 .77.‘ .: T 7:77} szmrkmé?‘
There ((133 7118. ('81 (11" 11.3. r" 1-... (18,118?» (1.13% _ . ;-._ 7

p
Q
“\l

5 (1181' ‘38: 1118.11 (11:18"? (1' (11-1 5
'18 8511 81118 777777777

7. , _ _ 3 '5 3'1”“

(8.811118. 831:: 7118118. . 88, ( ((E3mf12317728 1 7777 77715777"?

. . 7." 41 . 3.1.:- ,

(£8. 118M288 -.;.;-:~. -a?7ﬁi‘37‘3&7~v "1.. E72237"S j 5’51; 777 7 77 -' '
{€55 £1.55; 55,1“. _ _ _ 5 5 . . a. 21.179753377311131 11;?“
'1 a v: 7 :77 {g m ggaQ

. (11' ((1218 (1811; 111 , (118.. .(1(1((' .1 --' 5" 5. ' 5:733:77 '7' ﬁg 77"
5 y 1 _ . 5 v 5 -. 8-, '- 5 715' ,7" 8- an
, (11181 1111111 (1111.31: (11' ((318.13 1188 - 7577:7771. “7'7"" '7' 77777 7777
(.1111 (aim-1m? (11' 188 (11'1" 811- :11' -_ . ' 7171-71-3. 117113 1'2 $11.38" 1’58 77:15
111111123.» (21.8?5181'3 881888883. 323111. 1.8m 7 7:77 777 . 7777““ 777 7
(118811. (.1er. 111113188 12' 81" ((3 (8111;181:818 ' 77 ("7777 7'77 7737
{1'81 wEeE. 112111- ME111 (181(118 F (38. («(11138 ' "_ 17' 7'77 777777"

('18 2113811788 77111 (e 1182;111:141. 111 13111111 811118131 '

mentsm-net (20,888.”

 

 

REVS m8 mh888
r8081} (888
(Each 313' 8

(88 8(108888

'7 5.2M :78?
53...».
h“

('11

it,

«1 (127 1' >111" 1 7' .11: 11.1 1111811181:
.1.. ((821 .- . ' -.1188 (8281.12
(8218.8 2%.... - ’ . ‘- (11181-177 -' - 24-11g7318h 11111.1(»-
?(1‘8385 1.1 7 :1. '. v, . ((1218 81113 8(81'1-111 ((1 ((8118... 738811;
and 1E. W813 . ...5 5 . age ('11 (1:11-18 8'17 .. 881': (111.1111
- ' . . (111. (14.181; (118 81::- 81:1 (:1: (111 mice. 8117

7 - z- w '7: "' I V 7 E) E7 1 ' .
7787;777:877 55 5 7 ~" 5 .5 7118128 111(‘(8118828 1:11: 1.», $1.: 11.8(811888 1111.0
737333 73-75 {1.11 7 W838 (he 2128111318 (1E 11181111111 - (11811 (11111813
3.37; 30 b8 E71718 fEE’EEETES-Qd "8"" , -_ (7118 11182218112 8111i 11711877711181£8(.111_8(3 (111111.88.
((116.1 decigivaly (111%. - T711888 111111811881 8811111? he 81111511117188

. . 55 - .555 55 ; 11138:? (E11188

777711 777777777? 7777777777767“ 7 “E 1111111 (3:18 (htﬁe (1.8 8111:114- "88. . . .
- ~12 " 8'" . ' 1 v}. "' '1. -. . .1
3-5”? 9d 1 i 7177“} WEE-EEL- 711111 7511‘; (3811 (1 1111 '18 18-1 (111111 1118
8("1181 by EMEEE 18

gm . . "
(1:.
5M

3.,

 

 

 

 

 




{Founded in 1929 as a chariwbie edumtianal organizatian, incorparated in Illixwis)

THE NATIONAL ANTI NEVESECTION SOCIETY

100 EAST OHIO STREET, CHICAGO, ILLINOIS 60611

 

1%?ECIAL

BULLETEN

SPECIAL

 

. ‘ “I“ «1 ~13":- s.‘
.. 1.’ «I V].- ‘> ‘ 5'1 V
. ‘ 5.) L; ”1. , -;- .
~ »- -.1 st: 1. y,
.' :2; 2‘. ,r g,
. _. , ... ....
,. .. > f , .1 ,

day, Eebraa

 

State Rep. Eenry J» Hyde ER, ”Chiu
03gb] has 32111011130311 opposition t9
House Bill 3819, praposed by Rep. Bruce
Douglas ms Chicagali, La bill mat“;
originaﬂyewould have permiiteci animal
experimentatian by high 31:31:30} students.

The bill, haweveir, is in the precess of

being campletely raixawn became,
Doﬁglas said, it was migleading and
did not say what he meant.

“We have abselﬁtely elmxinated the:
word ‘experimentation’j’ has; said, “that
was; unfortunate in the ﬁrsi’: place‘ E
never intended in authorize the use 65

experimentation. All I ikntended was

to permit the use 1)? lewer animaig in
demonstratians m make 1:113 teaching
of bioiagy more effectivemthings such

‘as fruit ﬂies, worms, ﬁr mishaps ﬂags.

119313011311 ta Critieism
“Mfg Whale intent mw, in mamas-e ta

a great deal {3f welbthoughmm ﬁrﬁi‘

cism, is to progese a bin which Wm bar
experimentation completelymsamething
I am unalterably apposed imither by
chﬂdren 31* teachers, Them is m maﬁa

for experimentation {pr regeamh an
animals in the state’s; public sc::h¢a:s«is2

whether by students or malts. Thgre
shoulci be m experimentatian of any
kindmnutritim, radiatien, came? rsa
search or anything $138, but '31 3:33}
believe that the Enwer amimais 311mm
be used in biolagy ciass demonstratioxzsﬁ

Dr. Douglas, a dentist, aim 3311151 The
was against permitting animal wiper?
mentation to be done at home, far. whieh
the. Swami-:3 then receive credit, and
was checking to determine whether such
a prohibition properly amid be inaluded
in the new bill. He said he was await
ing further recemmendations fmm I‘m}
nois high schaol biology and science

. 'kfc'v?” 5.. . “f’yhl‘éfx’ ‘U‘,

teachérs after their state meeting, and"

the Eliinois ﬁcademy of Science and the 1

statgajss vetérizzarians. He ‘ 3350 120961;]
to talk w.ith§‘hemas é. Malmey, seisnce
fair mardin’aizar fer the Chicago Board

0f Eéucatimz, {me cf those who severely

criﬁcizeé ﬁle enigma! HE 36101
Hydie, in a statemexzt issued a 63y or".

so ago, tarmac: HE 3516 “The worst.

piece {sf legisEatian 3; have ever seen
introduceé” and pledged to help defeat
it in his 1013 as majarity leader of the
Howe. He added:

9% farce: saciism upon yaung chili
dren, as thia legisiation Wonk!a is most-
1111133. To torture p06}: living creatures

, at the 1113123113 {If those” whe cauld not
31:10:21? What they are. timing is hateful
am aiming}. E knew my actions :0 def
feat 12mg 910130531 have the suppart of
every parent, every aﬂimal lover, every
compasgiomte human.” ‘

A Saggegﬁgn

E17111”: 3’16 Hyde’s gé‘ppositiozz to the

Eongéas iii}, if it is drawn as new (184
sag-£10111}, may have become meaning»
333$, them it; samething the: Rapuhlican’
Eegislate? mighi grammar. As I under-
siand if: 3911:1131? do 35mg- pubiic schools
1151131191111 anti géva creciit is}: 1121311131 ex-
psrimemaﬁen ggriamed in private ga-
rzsgess m: basements, but there is 230
yrcvisiim whatever it: gresent state
laws, is forbid anima’i experimentation
in private car pargchial sch-9911;“
Weald 1% mt he pegsﬁiﬂe for Rep.
Hyég, :31 mme e‘éher right-minded hag-
$313131, 2‘13 fasfﬁm, a law «at laws which

wanlé. forbié 3}}; animal ezwerimentati‘on‘

autsiﬁe 015 that done by accredited scis
entists? {faviougly ii; is My as harmftti
t9 the 313322131, and as éegrading t0

336mg humans, {:13 have such crueities

parpewated Gimme 0f the pu‘bﬁc schools
as in Science fairs, which in the past
have ssmetimes given prizes for experi»
mats imaiving “the mast sophisticated
bruialities, $1313 sheuld he smeared in
such a biz}.

I am mclinec‘i its; believe @1033 who
{tandem}; 'anima} experimentation by
yomgsizem when may 33.11915: that the
effecs: an the character and perscnality

~ sf the experimenter may be Qlarmful in

me exéreme.

 




“\1'

Mrs. William C. Faber
7610 W. Hortense Avenue
Chicago, Ill. 60631

7 I
“ W" . ' .771: was v’ ".77 ’ , .
#:777717- ~ ~ 7, 7

a

7 7 i: _V r‘" ,
”If“: 1.; ”7» mm»

HI’J’.

”(F-mu-

g _ «4”!
{:— ’V.L'"J‘<'” " ”‘7‘ t.) “givjﬁfw .1“ /;’« ’
i/

r ’ l/F'
’ 1"“3/ .. ,

732/2

 




 




, ’0‘" I. :? “4"?
' I. ” I I I? A, ;y;féhwuji’
57/ ’7

/ ,

/,/’«.M_,,gv

“13/"
"J' .

2f
3“ \ .
. ,7-

~24”,

x'i/ ,;

/;.~"“/€_'.,n../r.,._.w‘ Nunatcﬁ‘ “A; ’L 4
Ly"

,/
2’

M~wrf~ -1—¢M’th~/

5/7/ . 5:21“
“(4 Jr W4 ,. 4 if“: 6"““7gg4w

.’ )f
I If!
, / n
.i’ ' /
p 7 V ' I, ”J/ry-a
W” M/ . A -\ 7/” (9:7 ‘A j
./ > '1 u I 7 ”Mi 7 “

 




 




 




\

\x

:x
.0. xx “3. \ \x 3
‘ A \ x .
a ~ ; . ‘ \\\\\x. \‘N\\ V\NI\\
. \A\M\\\H\pﬁiﬂﬁﬁ\\\n\x Rx? \ E

\n x

M§A®§0

\

 




 

Eff Wpages, 35.95:" 4. “‘1'

413-1. YOU MAY NEVER have the oppOrtunity, but should it arise,
3. you too will be capable of having five minutes of stimulating
? conversatlon With Queen Elizabeth, the Aga Khan or Martha

' 4: ~M1tchell, tho I guess you could hardly escape that last instance.

._ Barbara Walters tells you how to get their ear in her book,
4—“ “How t Talk with Practically Anybody About Practically
Anythmg” [Doubleday, 195 pages, $5. 95]. Miss Walters is the
Woman interviewer on the Today Show whom millions of
, TVIewers have seen in glamorous action at the time most of us
":1 are futzing around the kitchen in curlers putting on the coffee
‘ ‘ andﬁ", . u
j. ’9 '- . 4“How to Talk,” etc. tells how she learned to talk to
i ce brities and earn her keep by getting them to share their
c arm, wit ahd insight via TV with all of us Out There
Readmg it will aid the average housewife or career girl to
4_ overcome a tongueatied condition in the presence of celebrities,
" fiend indeed to improve the pleasure and flow of conversation at
,_ 4,; “eyeﬁ a neighborhood dinner party.
,_ And it’s not such a simple matter as being a “good listener. ”
7 ' That Is NOT the art of conversation, writes Miss Walters in the
_ \prolog “Such advice invites people to be cynical of one another,
, :‘-'and full of fake; when a conversatiOn becomes a monolog,
poked alOng with tiny cattle-prod questions, it isn’t conversation
any more. It’s a strained, manipulative game, tiring and perhaps
' ' .1; even 1011er ”
’ What, then, is cenversation?

:4: . ,. “Even a brief one,” says Miss Walters, “should have all the

best features of any functioning human relationship, and that

, " means genuine interest on both sides, opportunity and respect for
both to express themselves, and some dashes of taste and

. 7‘2“; 4 , ' perceptmn Conversatlon can be such a pleasure that it is
~ {criminal to exchange comments so stale that neither really
listens” /

  
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
 
   
       
  
 
 
 

,4 ' 43 news reporti,’ s. She despa1red of ever getting something
,seml for herself unt44 She asked lum the mag1c questmn “What

 

V V V -" 3V-

“ 4. my ‘7'-“(‘Y‘u-W‘ W 1' ‘T— ’ . -, V
{ l' . l ‘ , ' ; 5“" 3\'__ _ ' 1I ~ , ,
1". 4 ‘ .., 4‘ ‘4‘ r,..,_ I.

,__ ,3“ _ ', .' " v . 1 .. .
~,- 4 ‘ . \ ' x? .
'4‘ _ / , .
. 4 I . .,
. 1 . ‘
. ,‘ i 4
P! . ,
. . . - .
- \ I o;
4 ..

iicl‘Omie

 

T ‘ :vyrrr,‘ ,Y_ 744'; v—ig—w -"1y'—~-w—- "" w‘rr-FV' 'W. 'PA n-.,,,v3-»\,r;',.\ , ..
,a. ‘ ‘7?“‘7’ » * - . «If...» , ’ "~ ' L; 1'. ....

.4 . ,Lu»:
1' , ,s-ro-t.

. ; ‘ '
. r . i

. \1

_, cHICAGQ‘TR‘IBUNE, .IWEéDNESDAY, OCTOBER 14, .4970

 

Man Displays His Cruelty

0 IT ALWAYS HAS PUZZLED ME how anyone can take a
dog or cat into the country —— presumably a no-longer-wanted
family pet—and turn it loose to shift for itself.

We have acquired several fine dogs and cats, obviously
abandoned by good people of this type. If you ask how I know
they were abandoned, I cite the ages of several [very young]
which appeared from nowhere, and also our most recent ar-
rival, a friendly half-collie, half-cocker spaniel [at a guess]
which for the first feW' weeks after taking up residence with
us raced frantically after the family car every time it left the
yard, seemingly in a panic for fear the driver would never
return.

Ticker 1s over the habit now. But I sometimes wonder what
sort of person dropped her on a country road to shift fer
herself when she was little more thana puppy. Dropped her,
what’s, more, ‘in thoroly unpleasant weather. We found her,
a half-groWn starveling, shiVering in the glow of the head-
lights one snowy night when we turned into the driveway and.
extremely suspicious of our proferred friendship.

Perhaps those who get rid of their pets in this fashion are

 

 

. . 4250 miles of Bangkok ., ‘4 .. 4 J 4 fit/ﬁn

THAIS MOUNT w
MAJOR ATTACK
ON GUERRILLAS

BANGKOK, Thailand; Oct. 13
[Reutersl—A major drive has
started against Communist
guerrillas in the jungle“ and hills
in northern Thailand, military
sources said today. 4

A squadron’ of planes, ar-
mored cars and field guns have
moved into support ground
operations of’ the Thai Army in,
the Khao Klao hills in the
center of the guerrilla terr1tory

File Criminal Charges
in N. Y. Port Pollution

NEW YORK, Oct. 13 (UPI)—
Criminal charges were filed in

today against Consolidated Edi-
son,
companies alleging that they
pollute navigable waters by
dumping oil or gasoline into
New York Harbor. The de-
fendants will] plead to the
charges Oct. 20. A, campaign
against pollution of New York
area waters is being waged by
the office of United States Att.
Whltney North Seymour Jr.

 

d the army engmeers

   

United States District Court '
Mobiloil and two other '

 

 

4 salving their consciences, if any, with the thought that every-

thing always turns out all right—that the animal finds a new
home and someone who cares for it. Well, here’s a letter, re-
printed by the Humane Society of the United States, from a
Mrs. Thomas Stoner of Waynesboro, Pa., who writes to some
unknown person:

O“I WANT TO TELL you What happened to your cat after
you dropped her off [abandoned her]. The first few days-she

, stayed just about where you dropped her, waiting for you to

come back. Then hunger drove her on along the road, search-
ing for food and shelter.

“By now she eats anything she can find, and it is a rotten,
wormy, disease—laden diet. Dogs and other animals chase her
She is almost hit by passing cars. Exposure to freezing nights
ahnost kills her, but your cat is tough . . .

. I found your cat today. She was beside my mailbox,
right where you wanted her to go—to that farmhouse in the
country. The only trouble was your cat couldn’t see me be-
cause her eyes were pasted shut with infection. Every bone
showed through her hide, and she couldn’t eat because her
stomach was already full . . . distended by starvation. Two
weak to stand, she made a little noise at me—but it was for
you, her owner, to hear. She is dead now, but can you still be-
lieve you took care of her the humane way?”

0 THE HUMANE SOCIETY points out that there are nearly
50 million unwanted and homeless dogs and cats in the coun-
try, at best estimates, and that the blame for this lies in
part on veterinarians who charge exorbitant prices for spay-
ing or. altering and—mostly—with so-called animal 10Vers and
animal shelters that put out for adoption pets which have not
been neutered. S’dme blame also attaches to greedy pet shop
owners who try to convince purchasers that'they can make
money by breeding dogs and cats in their own homes.

“We must recognize, and convince others,” the bulletin
declares, “that while there are more dogs and cats than there
are homes available for them, any litter of puppies or kittens

‘ is surplus.’

Any country-dweller will verify this.

 




(Lea/)4

/ i
3‘ dud QL/W
l 22 " Section IJCV\\\ A\\/]b . . L '

 

Sport, Kewaskum Style

0 THE KIWANIS CLUB of Kewaskum, Wis, while not
advertising itself as the promoter, nonetheless held its annual
Live Turkey Shoot last Sunday in defiance of orders from
Kiwanis International to put an end to its sponsorship of such
events.

An estimated 10,000 persons, some of whom killed and some
of whom watched the slaughter, took part in the fun, if that’s
the/proper word to describe something in which the target is
tied to prevent more than limited movement and poked from
behind with sticks to make it stand straight.

According to a story in the Milwaukee Journal by Richard S.
Vonier, who watched the affair, 34 turkeys at a time were
tethered behind bunkers with only their heads and necks
showing, while 34 “sportsmen,” some of whom paused to swig
beer between shots, fired from a distance of 80 yards, each at
his individual bird.

Even children were allowed to try their luck, and it was, all
in all, a splendid place in which to instruct the young in the
proper treatment of animals and to develop their sense of fair
play. A barker, urging the crowd to step up and pay a dollar
for each four shots, made remarks such as:

“We’ve really got some beauties out there. That No. 10 bird
is almost begging for it?” Or:

“Hit on No. 23!”

And one of the shooters growled this complaint:

“Get a head up on No. 11.1 like to see what Im shooting
at!”

O AMONG THE BACKERS of the shoot were James Reigle,
president of the Bank of Kewaskum and of Regalware, Inc.,
and John Battaglia, trust officer for the same bank and
president of the Kewaskum Kiwanis Club. A vice president for
the club told the Journal that all proceeds went to the
Kewaskum Kiwanis group.

In preshoot stories, Battaglia, defending the event, was
quoted as saying that it was not inhumane because the turkeys
were dispatched, when hit, within 15 or 30 seconds.
Disregarding the probability that flopping around for even that
length of time with an eye shot out or half of your neck missing
must seem an eternity, even to a turkey, is the more somber
fact that there obviously are a number of persons within eaSy‘ ‘
range of Kewaskum who find actual pleasure in killing.

Mrs. Harry Hunt of the Defenders of Animals, who for years
has been trying to have this particular manifestation Of
medievalism halted, was once told by a former president of the
Kiwanis Club of Kewaskum that live animals were necessary
as targets in order to insure “the thrill of the kill.”

It seems wise not to go into the implications of that remark,
but it doesn’t really seem to add much luster to the name of
Kiwanis.

Reg Merridew, secretary for Kiwanis International, said that
in view of the apparent refusal of the Kewaskum club to heed
last June’s directive from the international board of directors,
the whole matter would be considered again at the board’s
October meeting and it is possible that the Kewaskum club
might lose its charter.

There also will be court action tomorrow in Fond du Lac as
Jay Sykes, recently, defeated Democratic candidate for :
lieutenant governor, attempts to have the Kewaskum .
Kiwanians found in violation of the laws governing the

 

 

 

treatment of “confined animals.”

—'_

 




 

 

 

 

1', ‘

. -» {.‘J—j ’ ,\

2,} }" .‘il'i‘ - ‘ -
,u'w,
V 'r In‘ ( I J,

. ‘i‘ .’ ’l ‘ ’1‘:

,“ »' H. M:
. f ’ “ ..
.. . , _ ,
l C

'I.

. A

é JAPAN H0l.

, this fact disclosed publicly in

‘ the nation that handed Japan

, this year. A deep affinity for

} pollution.

‘ Jul};,__ , ,‘Japaneselutoday appear ready

.l
‘ l
\V-.

. Japan after World War II.

9.20— 7 Sectional I - a

lN‘llEPEll ENT cromie,

AFFINITYI00.8.

New Formula Needed
to Preserve Tie

BY SAMUEL J AMESON
[Chief of Tokyo Bureau]

[Chicago Tribune Press Service]

” TOKYO, A u g. 16—Shortly
after Eisaku Sato became
prime minister, he sent a
message to all Japanese dip-
lomats in Asia and instructed
them to bear
Japan’s relations with the
United States must be con-
sidered in all dealings with
Asian nations, according to a
source in Japan’s Foreign
Service.

Sato would not like'to have

3]

in mind that

 

Japan. Being overtly pro-Amer-I

 

News Analysis

 

‘ ican isn’t fashionable any more.

However, being in tune with;
American developments is still?
very much in vogue.

Psychology of Relations

Such is the psychology. of r

Tokyo’s relations today with

the first military defeat in its
history.

Last year the U. S. promised
to return Okinawa to Japan by
1972. In the eyes of most
Japanese, this reaffirmed the
friendship the U. S. first gave
in a benevolent occupation of

Subservient pro-Americanism
has disappeared with a re-
surgence of national pride and
an economic boom that is
carrying Japan toward a $200
billion gross national product

the U. S. still exists, however.
For in s t a n c e , advertisers
point to acceptance of a
Japanese product in the Ameri-
can market as a sales appeal to
Japanese 5 h o p p e r s. News-
papers cite environmental
standards being set,in the U. S.
to criticize the reluctance of
the government here to combat

Businessmen underrate the
Japanese economy b e c a u s e
they compare it with thesize of

the American economy. Sim-l

iIarly, J apanese, Overrate them-
selves, in s p i r i tu a1 values
largely ,because of comparisons

, ‘ Taken forGr'anted' .

 

. ".041. .

' , I I I ‘ I

Scientific Sadism?

O UNLESS YOU HAVE A tolerance for cruelty, an
indifference to suffering and the inability to recognize idiocy ‘
solemnly. posing as research, I suggest that you stay away

from» the so-called science fairs which seem to have
proliferated in the past few years.

An article in the Animal Welfare Institute’s Information
Report by F. Barbara Orlans, Ph. D., and Charles F. Colao,
M. D., gives details on the sort of pseudo-scientific goings-on
which are exhibited at such fairs. They certainly cause
outrageous suffering for animals and, I suspect, have an
unhealthy impact on school children permitted to perpetrate ,
“experiments” which are inescapably reminiscent of some of
the ones done on humans in the Nazi era.

One of the exhibits at the International Science Fair in
Baltimore last May described how a 16-year-old boy operated
on monkeys to plant electrodes in their brains after having
mad-e the animals “neurotic” by administering electric shocks
whenever the caged creatures tried to obtain food. His-
scientific conclusions: “The monkey is very sensitive to pain” Q
and such brain-stimulation “could be used in the space
program to help astronauts during the long periods of time,
which lag.” ' '

a I FIND MYSELF repelled by such young “scientists” as
those who [1] told how a mouse being used for skin transplants ‘
“died from being sewn up too many times” or [2] upon
operating on a pregnant mouse “found all baby mice dead.”

‘Nor can I believe that anything is being contributed to the
sum of human knowledge~except about the kind of kids we’re
developing-by teen-age attempts at heart and pancreas
transplants or the induction of cancer in small animals ,
regardless of the animals’ torment and the actual danger to the
health of the “scientist.”

The article also cites the 17-year-old Kansan who so
mistreated pregnant rabbits, by adminstering tbxic substances,
that the animals developed abscesses, went blind and gave
birth to babies so tiny and malformed that the fun~loving
experimenter named two of them “Scabby Baby” and
“Minibaby.” '

0 IN WEST VIRGINIA a student in a Catholic school treated ‘
mice with a tumor-producing substance until they developed
neck tumors as large as the mice themselves and were unable '
to walk properly. Luckily for the subjects they only had to drag

themselves around for five months before death came. ‘

“This unexhausted list of juvenile experiments is sufficient ,
.to demonstrate,” the article goes on, “that, unlike the,
Westinghouse Science Talent Search, which set an excellent}
precedent this year of exhibiting no inhumane projects, the
standards of animal use at the 1970 International Science Fair ,
are still intolerable. . . . One rule which has found favor with ‘
several scientific societies and has been adopted by some
school boards and science competitions is that pre-university
students should not inflict pain on vertebrate animals. . . . '
Typically, youngsters work alone in home basements, giving .
small animals nutritionally deficient diets, or giving them
alcohol instead of water, or killing them with cigaret smoke

With SOCial disorders in the U S. ‘ . . .

, Do you suppose they now “give high school credits [in ft

{beginning and advanced sadism?

 

its: an e

 




 

cromie

. More on Treuky Shoot

l
1
l.

0 THIS COLUMN HAS BEEN rebuked for failing properly to

“investigate” before criticizing the live turkey shoot sponsored
annually by the Kewaskum, Wis, Kiwanis club as a
fund-raising device. On the other hand, this column has
received a letter stating that Kiwanis International will
undertake a personal investigation of the shoot

The chairman of a Wisconsin shoe company writes as
follows:

“1; am appalled and acutely disappointed over the fact that

1. a man of your stature would so meekly succumb to the

halt-v alid ranting oia fanatic like Ms 11am y Hunt [notes she
doesn t approve of live turkey shoots] with iﬂegaid to the Live

. Turkey Shoot which has been annually conducted by the *
. Kewaskum Kiwanis club. Ill freely grant that there may be two

sides to a question of this kind, and that both are worthy of

, consideration but I, protest vigorously when you use the
’ influence of your column in a great newspaper to present one

biased View without having first made inquiry into the

‘ complete array of facts pertaining to the case.”

1 cheerfully admit being biased against any so-called
Spurting event which permits people to shoot at turkeys whose
legs are tied and whose heads are propped up with sticks to
permit the shooter to have a better target. I will, go further. I
wouldn’t even approve of shooting a bunch of turkeys who were
running around a barnyard untied and keeping their heads low
to the ground.

I also am somewhat startled to find the writer praising the
“efficient and humane manner in which the wounded turkeys
are butchered” and am, indeed, “interested in. knowing, for
example, that the sole reason. for tying the legs of the turkeys

is to minimize the time between their being hit and their being z

butchered and to reduce the injuries which they might inflict
upon themselves if they were not thus confined to a spot
location.”

0 IF I TRANSLATE THIS correctly it means that the turkeys
are tied so that, after being shot in the head, or wherever, they
won’t run around and damage themselves before the Kiwanis
club has time to kill them. This is a kind of sentimentality
which somehow escapes me. You shoot the bird, but you don’t
want to hurt it.

The other letter, from R. P. Meiridew, international
secretary of Kiwanis International, said in pait:

‘ As you can. well imagine, many, many Kiwanians are as
concerned about the Kewaskum turkey shoot as is Mrs. Hunt.
The governing body of Kiwanis International shares this
concern. . . ..

“Because of the nature of the criticism of the Keu'askum.

club’s turkey shoot, we feel that a personal investigation of just
what they are doing, followed by a conference with the
directors of the Kiwanis Club of Kewaskum is mandated. In
other words, we want to know all about what is going on so
that we can be guided in our actions.

“Accordingly, the president of Kiwanis Interntional, Mr.
Robert F. Weber of. Detroit, and I have scheduled a visit to
Kewaskum on June 10 which will be folloWed by a meeting with
the president and the board of directors of the Kiwanis Club of
Kewaskum. The Board of Trustees of Kiwanis International
will meet 1n Detroit during the latter part of June. I will let you
know what action is to be taken as soon as possible
thereafter.”

I trust that satisfies the writer of the first letter.

 

 

 

9,302.02”?

MO

{11.2

 

 




w..- ,..._.

‘ Th6 POWER of FAITH ggigeco'mmuns. massaging-2,1970

 

 

- '4‘ 5'” .‘._.
.x‘x‘. 35' \u ‘ ,3):
.,

Once again the efforts of Defenders of Animals
and its members pays off. After struggling since
1967 to put an end to the barbaric practise of
using live tied up turkeys as targets our mission
has been accomplished.

Despite the fact our bill S 309 was on the Jan 5
calendar that the Wisconsin Assembly allowed to
go down with the adjournment - and despite the
fact that humane officers have supervised this

shamefully, cruel event in Wisconsin these past Turkey controversy Ended
11,7 yeﬁrs a thShtrﬁe humanltarlans haw: finiltzh 0 THE CONTROVERSY over the use of live turkeys as
een ear ° 1C proves once more, eep a1 ’ targets during the Kiwanis Club of Kewaskum [Wis] annual

good W111 trlumph over ev1l. fund raising event seems to have been resolved in a fashion
‘ which should satisfy all involved, including the turkeys.

BOb Cromie, a columnist for the Chicago Tribune At the recent meeting in Detroit of the board of trustees of

came to the rescue by publishing a copy of our Kiwanis International, the president of Kiwanis, Bob Weber,

second letter to Mr . Merridew, secretary of the made a report on a visit earlier in the month to Kewaskum in

Kiwanis International. This consideration was which he and the international secretary, R. P. Merridew of
. . . . . Chicago, discussed the turkey shoot with John L. Battaglia,

the turn1ng p01nt. Hundreds of irate c1tizens

, , , , . . Kewaskum club president. The result of the board meeting is
wrote 1n obJect1ng t0 th1s cruel means 0f ra1s1ng told in a letter sent to Battaglia by Merridew, part of which

funds - hence the resolution by the Board of follows:

Trustees of Kiwanis International . (resolution “The excellent record of service to your community,

copied in article to the right . ) established over the years by the Kiwanis Club of Kewaskum,
was warmly applauded by the board. There 1s no doubt that the

Our sincere thanks to Helen Jones, President of proceeds from the Turkey Shoot have been put to very good

National Catholic Society for Animal Welfare,Inc. use

. “Recently, as you are well aware, Considerable objection has
SO9-Mad1son Ave ' New York, N ‘Y' 10022 the only been raised to your use of live turkeys as targets in what has

national organization that publicly tOOk a stand been an annual event. Hundreds of letters have been received

on behalf of Defenders of Animals , Inc . by Kiwanis International as a direct result (if an article in the .

And to Bob Cromie and the Chicago Tribune the March, 1970, Report of the National Catholic Society for .

only newspaper that allowed a column to be pub- Animal Welfare, followed up by two full columns and several

lished exposing the cruelty employed by a service additional paragraphs ° ' in THE CHICAGO TRIBUNE

club in their attempt to raise money . After careful consideration of all of the above, the board
on June 25, unanimously adopted the following resolution:

This turn of events seems to bring out the real— 0 “WHEREAS, THE BOARD of Trustees of Kiwanis
ization that the Wisconsin Assembly was influenc- International has had brought t0 its attention the use of live
ed by Assemblyman Fred Schroeder, rather than turkeys mafund raising activity ofaKiwanis Club, and

their good judgement or the voice of the people. 111113113113:Ziogu33516rsglgiiggntg such use Would appear to

W' th 1 t' t' f t h' 1 “BE IT THEREFORE RESOLVED
l e ec 1on , 1me as ap p roac lng’ .p 68,188 “That the Board of Trustees of Kiwanis International is of
check the candidates runn1ng for off 1ce in your the opinion that the use of live turkeys as targets is

area before voting. Check them out thoroughly, objectionable and must be discontinued.
for when you cast your vote, you are investing ' “BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED

in them, the power to act in your behalf. Make “That the Secretary of Kiwanis International be directed to
sure the right man 'represents you. inform the President of the Kiwanis Club of Kewaskum
Wisconsin of this board’s finding and to direct said club to
discontinue the use of live turkeys as targets in fund raising

Sincerely, activities.”

. C THE LETTER continued by saying that the board hoped:
M it . that the public-service minded Kiwanians in the
Kewaskum Club will see their way clear to continue the
President Kewaskum Turkey Shoot for many years to come, but using
inanimate objects as targets, with turkeys-live or otherwise-—
being used only as prizes. Several excellent suggestiOns for
ingenious mechanical targets have been put forth, and I shall
be glad to share them with you ”and your fellow members.
N40 w2774o Hy, J ‘~' 7, . “With every good wish, Sincerely, R, P. [Reg. ] Merridew,
PEWAUKEE. WISCONSIN 53077 . ,. ' L - International Secretary. ”
t ' My congratulations to the Kiwanians.

 

 

 

 




An Appeal
for the

Preservation of

Casa Guidi
*2?

\ ‘s
‘3
tsp.
i“
‘ .
“‘1"!
‘2 .I ;
-‘:.

. x ‘k
\x
.k ‘ ~
‘ \“ ‘ '\\; J . \V “‘1‘“
\i\\\ -\. .. \W \‘\\:\\“‘3: §}\.
\ x ‘ ‘ K“-‘:‘
:t K ,1 <: 15,-“.

\

‘ ‘ “as: .
at. ,1. ’ . L ,
.. m: \ ‘
we
“; ‘ 'il if. j
. ¥;“; v |‘ f‘ 51
. — \

Historic Florentine Residence
of

Elisabeth JBarrett — I

am

1Robert JBr'owning‘

 




.
~ -----

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

'Klesseoeu j; ‘sesuedxe u‘firedtueo SplBMOl uoneuop Silll osn [taut no A E]

g; 1th uoneuop [fut s! qllMQJQH [j

:smouo; se lplnf) eseg jo uoneAiesaid out premor
uonnqtnuoo ojqnonpep-xer Aw pioooi osceld

 

a 22 s a a
so § '< 39 E
E H» (D
a:
m
(o
m
(D
:3
D.
E
n
O
'9.
m
V:
0
H7
K<
O
I:
H
5‘
H
(o
(I)
('9-
57
m
:2
E a)
H
O '5
go 0
2' Q
Ca
‘1’ m
H
O
5'?
rs
D
o.
5”
Q
a E
Z’Vsjﬁlﬂo
0' “um-7r
gprtgm:
<w§=$§
8039‘s:
FT 9 E
203:2.00,
om” ‘
on SW;
'<°w
p.630 ‘t
H “’00
o”€°‘€~u
Shawn”
QQ‘S'QS"
as we
N W‘
sg. 88
p— N..-
e a
E s-
~~
Hob' N
g,
I
{a}
&

 

 

 

 

An Appeal

"1 THE NEW YORK BROWNING SOCIETY’S efforts to pre-
-¥ serve from destruction the Brownings’ apartment in Casa

Guidi continue. Recent reports in the public press to

I ~ the effect that our efforts have failed are not correct.

If the apartment is saved, we plan to turn it over to

. a new organization, THE BROWNING INSTITUTE, pres-

ently being formed to co-ordinate the cultural and schol-
arly activities of its members,-—Browning Societies and

other institutions as well as interested individuals. Pres-
S ent plans contemplate a museum and library in the

apartment, to be concerned primarily with the Brownings

but also, to some extent, with other English-speaking
‘ artists and writers who have lived in Florence.
. . would create a unique place for study and research,

_ appealing to all who love literature and historical associ-
” ations.

This

An advisory committee has already been formed in
Florence under the co-chairmanship of the British and
American Consuls which will work on location to as-

‘l ;. sure that the project is effectively managed.

The apartment can be bought for slightly over

‘ $64,000 (40 million lire), payable $40,000 in October,
' $16,000 December 31,and the ﬁnal payment June 1972.
Contributions to date cover the ﬁrst installment and
‘ about one-third of the second installment.

We have, however, just been informed that we are

- subject to a transfer of title tax. We had hoped that

we would not be subject to this tax as we are a cultural

; ,- organization; but we do not qualify for exemption under
'; .Italian law. The amount is approximately $8,000, which
must also be paid in October. It is important that we
a raise this sum immediately to remove the threat of
If: " losing the rooms.

The New York Browning Society is registered as a

, 'Non-Proﬁt Organization and your contribution is tax
‘ ~{_..deductible to the extent allowed by the Internal Rev-
‘ , ”enue Code.

All contributions should be sent to The New York

d, Browning Society, Inc., PO. Box 2983, Grand Central
‘ ' Station, N. Y., N. Y.

10017.

at?

 

CHICAGO TRIBUNE - May 7, 1971

 

_ t Bob
Cromie

 

 

Seek to Save Old Browning Home

0 THE SHADES OF ELIZABETH and Robert Browning may
have no favorite haunts to return to soon. Unless 515.000 is raised
by December 31 the Casa Guidi in Florence, Italy, in which the
Browmngs occupied an apartment for 13 years before the death
of Elizabeth, will be remodeled into offices.

The New York Browning Society has managed to obtain
several reprieves while trying desperately to find enough poetry
lovers willing to help preserve this memorial to one of history’s
most famous lovers. A recent article in the New York, Times
by Anthony Burgess brought ani extension of the last deadline
i May 1. But now Philip Kelley, president d the New York
Browning Society has sounded a final alarm. .

Donations toward saving Casa Guidi are tax—exempt. The
Browning Society of London is cooperating in the fund-raising
effort. Anyone wishing to help should send contributions to The
New York Browning Society. inc, Post Office Box 2983, Grand
Central Station, New York, N. Y. 1001?.

0 THE BROWNINGS AND ELIZABETB’S dog, Flush, moved
into Casa Guidi, a 15th century palmo, after their elopement
from Wimpole Street. in London. Their son, Pen, an only child,
was born in Casa Guidi in 1849, and it was there that Browning
wrote “Men and Women" and his wife wrote “Aurora Leigh” and
“Casa Guidi Windows."

Among the notables who dropped in on the Brownings in their
Florence retreat were Anthony Trollope, Nathaniel Hawthorne,
Margaret Fuller, Walter Savage Lander and Baron Edward
George Earle Bulwer-Lytton, author of “The Last Days of
Pompeii.”

Elizabeth Barrett Browning died in Casa Guidi oh June 29,
1m, and Browning left Florence a short while later. He never
returned. Pen bought the palazzo to save it from demolition and
after his death in 1912 it was acquired by the family of the man
who recently sold it to commercial interests with a provision that
the sale would be canceled if a way could be found to preserve
the Browning apartment.

0 BURGESS PUTS IT WELL: “And now the Casa Guidi faces
depersonalization. Poems were produced here, some great, and
two English poets whom few Italians read made the Florentine
liberation movement their cause. Unless something is done soon
typewriters and Dictaphones will move in and prose somewhat
less than deathlesswill clack out. No ghost will protest, not even
that of Flush, who is buried in the cellar. fie lived with singing
birds and he was scared of spiders.”

If Casa Guidi is saved, the two societies plan to restore the
salon in the manner shown in a painting done a few days after .
the death of Elizabeth. Much of the original furniture is
available, but only you can keep Casa Guidi and its memories

ve

Copyright © 1971 by the Chicago Tribune
Reprinted by permission.




 

 

 

. " than ever . .

 

Chicago Tribune, Monday, August 36, 1971

 

Clean Up Dog Pound Readers Urge

O MAYOR DALEY’ IS BEING called upon

by animal lovers to clean up the city dog
pound as a result of a column last week.
concerning a miniature poodle that died two
' hours after being reclaimed by its oWner on
completion of a 10-day stay in the Lawndale
pound for rabies observation. The 3-year-old

',dog, Pierre, was literally crawling with ticks ,

and on the verge of, pneumonia when
released.

One of the calmest of a score or so of
‘ protesting letters [most of them were
sputtering with rage, and several writers
toldof their own bitter experiences with the
1 pound] was from'Mrs. Rubin Apteker of Villa
‘ Park, who sent a copy of her “note to the

. mayor: ,

“Dear ‘M‘ayor Daley: We hear so much
about you and what a good mayor you are for
Chicago, and I am su1e this is true and you
are a very hard working and sincere man.

“I am sure yourcould become a great man
if you would try' to do just a little in the
direction of our city pound, of which you are
mayor also. I understand you are a very
‘ religious man, in which case your concern
would go out to the animal world as well. In
today’s cruel world, they need our help more
.‘. and I am sure you will find it
in your heart to do something about your city
pound. .

“According to all the headlines, 1' know you
have your hands full with more important
things; but would. it not be nice to read that

‘ our Mayor" Daley is also interested in the .
little things and doing something about j

them?” .

 

* W XNOTHER WRITER, who charged that a

pound employs lied when he stated that the
cages are not hosed down with the animals in
them, described the pound as an animal
“Dachau.”

Yet another w0man, also writing about the
“canine Dachau,”‘ said:

“I too had my miniature poodle impounded
for 10 days at the Lawndale City Pound. My
one-year-old baby and I visited the dog every
day and tOok him for a walk. Many times the
dog was soaking wet or I got there just in ’
ﬁnite before the 2-inCh hose 1n full blast got to
him.

“The caretaker even accepted money from
me and promised to take my dog out before
the next hosedOwn. When I visited the pound
the next afternoon my poodle was wet again.
Theyhose them dewn twice a day. ”

0 MRS. DOROTHY OLMSTED of Peoria

' described what happened after a comparable
situation was exposed in her city!

“It was brought to the attention of the
Journal-Star—-and many .. pictures Of these
starved, maltreated animals were printed in'
the paper. Subsequently a great deal of money
was raised and we now have an excellent.
p o u n d a n (1 animal s:helter--we11-run,
well-supervised and clean . . . .

Mrs. Bertha Fenn, owner :of the Chestnut

- Court Book Shop in Winnetka, says ‘she corn-
l pla'ined ‘10 Mayor Daley a year or so ago -

about the pound and was, assured by a
spokesman then that it would be cleaned up.
She is urging people to write Mayor Daley—‘-
a good Suggestion.

.\_>

 

 

 

 




 

'2 or turned over

M'

ay, May 20, 1971

 

d"

Helen Burley
4312 N. New England Ave.
Harwood Hgts., I11. 60634

 

Some Sad Notes for Animal Lovers

o SOMETIMES THE LETTERS ARE SAD.

' This one is from the Mississippi Animal, '

- Rescue League of Jackson, Miss and signed
by Mrs. Victor Clark of Greenwood:

.u

. This state does not boast even one
animal shelter! Most towns do not have a
rabies inoculation program. In a small town
nearby two weeks ago the local police shot a
female stray dOg and then bashed in the
' heads of the four puppies she had with her.
They did not even have their eyes open yet. I
saw this pitiful sight two days after it
1 happened. . . . The police had not even
removed the bodies.

- “This particular town does not even boast a
' city pound, and we receive reports like this
. every day. But without an. animal shelter
a, [Jackson, Miss, is the largest city in the
United States without one] we are helpless.
After much prodding, Jackson did offer us
21/2 acres of land on which to build. When the
matter came up before the city council for a
.1 vote, they turned it down. Two days later the
city sold the land out from under us. How can
we make progress when we have to fight the
.burocracy at city hall, too?

‘ “I write you only because if we were able
" to amass the funds necessary we could
’ purchase a piece of land on which to. build.
y. We would than be out from under the whims
of the city cOuncil. Jackson does have a city
_' dog pound, but the animals they pick up are
held for five days and then either destroyed
to the University of
, Mississippi Medical Center for research. If
we held our land free and clear the city could
not force us to submit animals for

experlmentati ode MA! SLUNG “ST

The league ress P.
v 11264-De1ta Station; Jackson, Miss, 390213.B

 

0 AND FROM A COLLEAGUE at WLS—TV:
“If you are ever in the mood for a follow-up

* column on mistreated pets, I suggest you talk

with Mickey Jacobson at his pet shop in
Evanston.

- “For onething he knows how to run a pet
shop. You’ll note this as soon as you enter the
front door. A sign says: ‘Please close outer
door before opening door to shop to keep '
drafts from animals. . . .

“After you talk with Mickey [he’ll tell you,
for example, how pet shops have almost
wiped out a beautiful species of South Amer- '
ican sidenevck turtle—they look like small
teddy bears and were imported illegally——
take a walk and Visit some of the dime store
pet shop sections“ on State Street. See how
their animals are being kept. . . . The con-
trast is enough to-make you ill.

“You will note that water turtles, for
example, are kept in barely enough water to
cover them, and usually in a dark container.
Water turtles cannot eat unless their heads

’ are under water, and they must have both

light and heat, not to mention clean places to
live.

“Department store pet areas are often as
bad . . . Car-sons’, however, is good. Another ‘
one is a disgrace, or was the "last time I .

complained—tor the fourth time—to the
manager.

.Hundreds of thousands of the
green red-necked turtle are destroyed by
stupidity before they even leave pet shops or
dime stores.

“Often equipment . . . is worse than the
stupidity of, pet shop attendants. . . . An
example are the plastic turtle bowls. .
They’re automatic killers, for they are too
shall-ow for turtles to ‘eat under water, not to
mention being too small, drafty, and Without
provision for light or heat. . .~ ”

 




22 .. Section 1

Chicago Tribune, Monday, June 14 1971

 

 

Browning Home Gets Reprieve

O THANKS IN PART to the response by readers of this
column [more than 25 of whom sent contributions] it now
appears that the Italian home of Elizabeth Barrett and Robert
Browning will not be cut up into offices but will remain as a
shrine to the memory of those two literary lovers.

Philip Kelley of the New York Browning Society, which is
hoping to take over Casa Guidi in Florence, where the
Browning's lived during most of their time in Italy, writes:

“Thank you cordially for the help you have given our “Casa
Guidi Project.’ No other single news release has resulted in the
number of contributions . . .

“At the moment we have a reprieve. The owner has agreed '

to turn the title over to us, as soon as he is free to do so, for
$40,000. This amount we have in hand. The balance he will give
us until the end of the year to collect. This amount now stands
at $10,000. I am confident that this we will find during the
summer.” .

The New York Browning Society, Inc., may be reached
thru P. O. Box 2983, Grand Central Station, New York, N. Y.,
10017.

O ANOTHER PROJECT to which a number of TRIBUNE
readers responded generously is the Mississippi Animal Rescue
League, P. O. Box 11264, Delta Station, Jackson, Miss, 39213, a
group which is trying to raise money to build the first animal
shelter in the history of Mississippi. Jackson, incidentally, is
the largest city in the nation without such a facility.

 

A column telling of the efforts of this fledgling animal

. welfare group [formed in 1969] to interest Mississippians in its

work, and what it‘hoped to accomplish brought more than $600
in. contributions, plus a pledge of aid from the Fund for
Animals, headed by Cleveland Amory, which was established a

few years ago for the express purpose of helping animal causes 3

wherever the need was most apparent.

The Mississippi league plans—when enough money is
raised—~to build a shelter with “night deposit kennels, where
animals can be placed for warmth and comfort.” It also will
provide an ambulance service, pickup service for lost or
unwanted animals, an adoption bureau, a lost and, found
department, a humane program in the schools, low-cost
spaying or neutering and a force to investigate cruelty to
animals and promote better enforcement of existing
anti-cruelty laws as well as, new legislation.

0 AND FROM PATRICK Aim-merman, founder of the South—
ern School, 4520 N. Beacon Av., word that the first group
of 8th graders [five of them] has been graduated and that a
total of 50 students were attending the school’s three classes by
year’s end

Zimmerman, a former public school teacher, began his
Southern School as a storefront experiment to help dropouts
and pushouts from the regular schools and has been
astonishingly successful. Reading skills increased at an

unbelievable rate, and youngsters who sullenly had refused to
attend school began learning with great eagerness. It is hoped
that some education-oriented foundation will help the Southern
School continue to grow.

 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  




 

Chicago Tribune, Thursday, June 24, 1971

 

Animal Testing: is lt Still necessary?

e 11‘ SEEMS TO ME that science is tar
enough advanced by new so that it should not
be necessary to test the possible harmful
quality of new commercial products thru the
use of rabbits, monkeys, dogs or other
animals. And if science is not that far along,
and the horror of such testing is outweighed
by value receivedwa dubious supposition in
many casesmthen it should be mandatory
that the results of all such tests be filed. in

some central place and be made available to ‘

other potential testers so that no such test
need be repeated.

An outraged housewife gave me a cosy of a
publicity release from Sears, Roebuck and
Co. concerning the methods used to de-
termine that a new phosphateiree detergent
is not permanently damaging it splashed or
spilled in dry form into the human eye. She
added that after reading of the experiments
on rabbits and monkeys conducted by BeSoto,
loo, which made the detergent, she stillwin
protestwrefuse to buy the product no matter
how good it is.

A statement by Richard J. Anderson to the
Federal Trade Commission, made this month
in behalf of Sears and DeSoto, declares in
part: , .

“. . . 100 milligrams of detergent is put
into the eyes of six test rabbits. The eyes are
left unwashed for 24 hours. Then the eyes are
observed after 24, 48, and 72 hours. . . . We
compared our product with the leading
brands of. phosphate detergents. . . . We

found that all of. the products cause serious
eye irritation.”

9 WHY IT WAS CONSIDERED necessary to
. torture the rabbits with already marketed
detergents made by someone else I do not
know. In any event the testing went on.

According to the coldly ludlclous prose oi?
Anderson, a ehemical engineer: “Rabbits’
eyes do not tear [steep] as reach as human
eyes. So more of the detergent would be
restored from. a human eye through natural
tearing action.”

So the DeSoto people got six monkeys-an
animal .which has paid dearly for its. close
relationship to humans-wand tied them so
they could neither resist nor use their hands
to relieve their agony. Then we milligrams of
the DeSoto-Siears detergent Was dropped into
the eyes of three monkeys and 100 milligrams
of the already tested Brand X into the eyes of
the other three.

“Then,” Anderson’s report goes on, “it was
washed out with a small amount of water,
approximately 1‘/s of a sup. Although the eyes
were irritated, Within seven days almost
complete recovery was accomplished in the
case of all monkeys. After 14. days, all of the
monkeys were completely recovered.”

The condition of the rabbits" eyes after as
hours of execsure to the detergent is not.
mentioned.

or SURELY‘ ”ill-lb: CHEMICALS used to make
this useful nonphosphate detergent must
have been tested in the past, either purposely
or by accident,’ so far as their effect on
human tissue is concerned.

No sensible person would say that the
“blue-baby” operation was out worth the
sacrifice of the dogs on whom the original
experiments were made. But the use of dogs
to test the effect of. smoking on the human
lung seems to me preposterous, in View of-the
number of human guinea pigs available.

There must be some more civilized method
of accomplishing the same result. Othermse
the wrong animals are tiring in the trees.

 

 

The National Anti-Vivisection Society

100 East Ohio Street
Chicago, Illinois 6661}.

 

 

 




 

WI“! 101 I

ti “'9‘
i
3

£31.

 

>

Cromie

 

0‘1 BOOK LOVERS WILL BE PLEASED to
know that the annual Brandeis University
National Women’s Committee 12th annual book
sale will be held in Eden’s Plaza in Wilmette
from Sunday, June 6,
Thursday. ”The usual presale sale, which gives
early birds a chance to gobble the best
bargains, will take place Saturday night, June
5, from 7 to 10. Admission of $2 will be charged
for the presale sale only. All other days there is
* no charge.

This year’s collection of books will number
more than 150,000 [including thousands of
. paperbacks] and covers virtually every cate-
1 gory of interest, from novels, poetry, biography
“ and reference works to juveniles, art books,
textbooks and those in foreign languages
1 Once again there will be a closed bid auction,

details of which may be obtained from the sale
chairman, Mrs. Robert Bley, 260 Mary Rd.,
Hubbard Woods. Among items offered for
advance bidding are:

“Six Crises,” by Richard M. Nixon, auto-
graphed by the author.

“A 'White House Diary,” ' by Lady Bird
Johnson, autographed by Lyndon B. Johnson. _,

A set of Victorian playing cards, in color,
mounted in a book.

First editions of “Men Without Women” and
“A Farewell to Arms.”

A first edition of “The Game,” by Jack
London.

O OTHER RARITIES TO BE SOLD thru
'iadvanced bids are:
Manuscripts by Gounod and Offenbach, and

 

Brandeis U. Book Sale Benefit Starts June 5

thru the following

   

hand-written material by Franklin Delano
Roosevelt, Herbert Hoover and Booker T.
Washington. ~

Thomas Moore’s “Anacreon, ” [1802], with
fore- edge paintings of a coastal scene and a
bridge =

“Woodcuts and Etchings of Albrecht Durer, ” '

by Max Friedlander, No. 16 of an edition
limited to 100, pigskin bound. .
Shakespeare’s “ s,onnets ” published‘by the
Folio Society of London; printed by the
ChiSWich Press. 3
“Chats on Old English Tobacco Jars,” byR

‘Myer, profusely illustrated. ' i

All proceeds from the sale will go to the
Brandeis University Library, Waltham, Mass.
Anyone with books to donate for this or.
subsequent sales should telephone 251-0690 for1
free pickup service. :

O CLEVELAND AMORY, director of the Fund;

fenAmmals, is trying to block a closed circuit 1
telecast June 13 of a live bullfight in Spain!
which is being promoted by Managementi
Television Systems, Inc, headed by E. William
Henry, "former chairman of the Federal
CommUnications Commission. While a live-
bullfight would not be permitted, there seems
doubt that a telecast of such a fight is illegal, '
altho the “promotion” of such fights is 1
forbidden in New York. 'Amory has this to say;
of the sporting quality of such spectacles. 1
“While I hate to malign any animal, the bull 1
is oneof the dumbest around. What’s so heroic 1
about fighting a stupid animal? I’d like to see1
some of those matadors go in the ring with 31
coyote and stick a banderilla 1n him.” ~ 1

:w. 39"!“- .

 

 
   
 

1
1 .
!

  

’1
1




V. (.9. . ‘ ' i .‘d .. ’3‘,
f a, g? ’ i! I "
\r

THE ’W'DRLIYS (Silililﬂ’Pﬁ‘,

1‘er “W S listlfﬁlﬁi
D. 805,924l SUN. 1131.752

 

Readers Comment on Multitude of Subjects

OPENING THE MAIL:

L'

‘. . . ll don’t have the answer to the gun
crime problem, but I’ve read. enough on the
subject, to believe that registration alone is
not a. cure-all. Perhaps registration coupled
with mandatory sentences [stiff ones] for gun.
crimes, and strong follow-thru in the courts
would help. Mandatory sentences for drunken.
driving proved successful only recently.

“As for me, no, I’m not a member of the
NRA. .nor do I think the Commies are.
plotting to disarm us. On the other hand.
yes, I do own. a shotgun and in the fall 1'
like to hunt grouse in Wisconsin. I observe the
seasons and I take only what my family and
I will eat. It is wonderful sport, and it helps
keep a person in harmony with his natural

world . . .”
”A. P., Mundelein.

[I agree on the wisdom of stem penalties
for anyone found with an illegal gun. My
objection to hunters, however, is that I dislike
seeing anyone find pleasure in killing birds or
animals. Perhaps the deer herd needs to be
thinned out as a favor to the deer. Our out-
door editor, Tom McNally, assures me this is
so. And maybe the same thing applies to
grouse. But why there should be enjoyment
from such killing escapes me, just as I should
be pueeled to see anyone admire a finely-made
watch, then smash it and find the destruction
satisfying]

“You and Abner Mikva are Jews. You are
do gooders and bleeding hearts for the nig-
gers. Your heart don’t bleed when white police
are killed by niggers. . . . The racial minority
racket is over. Get a new racket.”

J. B., no address.

{I dislike racists of any stripe or color. I

...-\.

condemn the shooting of police in Harlem
[black and white, this time! or of high school.
girls in Mississippi or of unarmed drunks in
Tennessee. I‘ also am not fond of anonymous
or semi-anonymous letters]

M_W~-u

“If you are sympathetic enough to weep
over the demise of the blaekfooted ferret
which feeds on prairie dogs which make holes
that cripple cattle and horses, when, oh when,
will youtind it in your heart to write a col.~
umn against abortion, which mutilates and.
kills thousands of little humans every blessed
week?”

C.M., Glen Ellyn

[The analogy between blacl'cfooted ferrets
and abortion escapes me. But the ferret ques~
tion seems somehow more simple and easily
argued. I have great pity for pregnant moth--
ers who for excellent reasons wish an abor~
tion. I have great pity for the child who is
destroyed in the womb. I suspect the answer
is abortion for good and compelling reasons
only, but I leave the argument to those better
informed. You?.l

Me.—

“I’ don’t like hunting or hunters, but how is
one to protect one’s life and home in these
perilous times? I belong to the Fund for Ani-
mals, the A n i m al Welfare Institute, the
Friends of the Earth, the I.C.A.W., etc. I have
sent a few bucks to the Miss. Animal Welfare
League, Ziggy, Helping Paws. So don’t lump
all opponents of gun confiscation in with right
wingers, animal butchers, etc.”

R.S.K., Chicago.

[Didn’t mean to, nor did I urge confiscation.
of rifles. Only registration, stern enforcement,
stiff sentences for violators and a banning of
privately-owned handguns]

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




mhimgu @rihunr
THE WORLD'S GREATEST

NEWSPAPER
D. 805,924 SUN. 1,131,752

 

MAY 1 i 1971 5W“

l
i

bBob
romie

 

in the Morning Mail

9 OPENING THE MAIL: A Joliet housewife sends a mimeo-
graphed plea from Citizens Challenging Undeclared Wars
asking all voters to write or wire Rep. George O’Brien at
Springfield urging passage of the Mann Anti-War Bill
H. B. 315], which would provide that .no‘ resident of Illinois
could be forced to serve in an undeclared war.

 

Fourteen state representatives are cesponsors'of the bill, ,\
introduced by Robert E. Mann last February. The bill is
similar to one recently passed in Massachusetts Which is in §
the process of being tested in the courts. .

The mimeograph points out that action by states attempt-
ing to protect their citizens against infringement of their
rights is not unique. In 1945 the United-States Supreme Court
ruled in Georgia vs. Pennsylvaniarthat such attempts are
legal. The group also points out that H. B. 315 does not deny
to the President his emergency powers as commander-in-chief.

The executive committee of the Illinois House of Repre- .
sentatives is scheduled to vote on H. B. 315 tomorrow, 4

o HARRY HANSEN, vice president of Hastings House, a Q
New York publisher, inquires: ;
“How do Illinois people speak of state roads? Do they
say 111. 20, or State 20? The usage differs, and I need to know
for a new edition of the Illinois Guide”- 1
He was told “Ill. 20” and if this is wrong let me know at 7
once.

0 THE, AMERICAN HORSEmProtective Association of Great 3
Falls, Va., has issued a special bulletin on the necessity of
public support for bills in the U. S. House and Senate which
would protect “the last of the wild horses and burros of West-
ern America,” which are in “certain danger of extinction.”

The association suggests writing both of your Senators
c/o Senate Office Building, Washington, D. C., 20510, and your
Representative, c/o House Office Building, Washington, D. C.,
20515, asking them to vote for Senate Bill 1116 and House Bill
5375. A letter or telegram to members of the Interior and
Insular Affairs Committee of the House of Representatives '
also would be useful. ‘

The American Horse Protective Association is a nonprofit
group dedicated to the welfare of wild and domestic horses.

0 AND THIS FROM theiChlcago Public Library, which will »
celebrate its centennial during 1972:

“If you found the Central Library or its branches helpful
and enjoyable in your childhood, if you studied or did your
term papers there, as ‘a student, or found there the books you
wanted to read, if as a working adult the Library was useful
to yOu for research or recreation, then we would appreciate ‘
a brief statement from you. It doesn’t have to be longer elabo-
rate, just a recollection of your experience in the Library.” '

Since some of the most helpful persons in the world work
in the building on Michigan Avenue between Randolph and
Washington Streets, shall be happy to comply. .

 

 

 




  
  

- 18"“ Section 1

' » ”I 1W7... U .

b Bob Cromie‘"

‘n a:
.: V I . ‘ n ‘ ' ‘ . - - u ‘
7 Q .
9': .) ’\ gg f :‘x
.4), . .c 1—Ye- ' 2
‘ 9 I" v A Mr ’I
r 'v ; ,7 ( ”AI“.
7
l .

 

 

up .

O IN VIEW OF ALL the laws constantly being offered, and
usually passed, in Springfield, it seems strange that there is
not onthe state’s books one which permits humane organiza-
tions to remove any animal other than a gamecock from the
custody of anyone maltreating it.

* The April issue of the Anti-Cruelty Society’s Progress
Bulletin, in a story about the number of protest calls from
neighbors of those who mistreat animals, declares:

“In reporting alleged cruelty, hundreds of phone callers
and letter writers" preface their complaints with ‘I want you to
go out and take that animal away fromf’ithose people.’ They do

not understand, and do not seem to want to understand, that,

pets and livestock are personal property that not even a court
may confiscate

“Abused animals may be taken into protective custody by

police [and humane societies pending court action, but return

is mandatory even after a guilty verdict [italics ours], if the

.judge cannot persuade the errant owners to relinquish them.
Judges sometimes ‘persuade’ by levying a maximum fine and
offering to waive it if the owner will give up the mistreated
animal.”

Fighting cocks need not be returned to their owners,

however, because of court rulings that they are “gambling

equipmen. ”'
This is a situation which would seem to be in need of

:from the Animals’

When ’Owners Mistreat ’ Pets, Who WillHelp?

correction, and perhaps some kind- hearted legislators will now
pick up the ball.

0 THE GENUINE NEED for such a law is made obvious by a
study of the number of neglect charges which poured into the
society’s offices last” winter—the highest in the 72 years the
Anti-Cruelty Society has been in existence.

With the first cold spell, 240 telephone complaints and 37

letters told of dogs forced to remain outdoors for cruelly long
periods. Other complaints told of the failure to provide shelter
for riding horse's, live stock, cats and even those pitiable
animals penned up in so—call-ed “private zoos”——another area in

which legislation should be considered.

The lack 0f legal authority to remove from the custody
of thoughtless or heartless owners animals whose only hope is
the kindness of strangers, is a stumbling block to genuine
enforcement of anti-cruelty statutes already in existence. Write
your favorite senatOr or representative at Springfield-or even
in Washington—and maybe vitally-needed local or national
action will be taken.

Meanwhile, and until this is done, the financing of extra
help for animals maltreated during the cold months comes
Christmas Fund, which you might
remember when the wind begins to howl once more and doors
remain barred to shivering pets. '

 

 

 

 

 

Chicago Tribune, Wednesd

Stc




 

 

 

Cruelty to Animals Staggers the Mind ‘ ,

O THERE ARE SOME STRANGE HUMANS,
indeed, as a glance at the April bulletin of the
Animal Welfare League will show you. Who
but a verystrange human would abandon a
farm, leaving behind all the livestock—some
penned up?

This is What investigators for the Animal
Welfare League found during bitter cold
. weather a few weeks ago, in respOnse to a
complaint concerning that farm:

Two dead horses lying in the yard, seven
dead pigs cooped up, two starving horses in a
barn,two other starving horses in the-yard,

and a dog and cat-bothstarving—ein the ,

house. Neither of the horses in the barn had
food or water and one of them already was
down. The two horses in a corralw-tho

exposed to the elements—nonetheless were
able to eat whatever withered weeds grew
there and to gain some moisture by' gulping
snowy Water in a bathtub in the corral,
seemingly the former source of a drinking
supply, had frozen solid.

The society visitors found a truck nearby
containing four bales of hay, but this was
enclosed and could not be reached by. the
horses, none of which had- been fed,
apparently for several days. The horses, cat
and dog were removed to the society Refuge,
Where one of the confined horses had to be
killed and the other died in its sleep. A home
since has been found for one of the surviving
horses. "

A dead'dog. and several dog skulls were
found insidethe house, which was filled with
excrement and , debris and ; seemingly once
'had‘been" occupied by a~~5breeder of poodles.

There were holes in the house roof and the,
basement door was open.
“Altho we have spent much time inves'tiy‘v
gating this complaint and had post mortemsﬁ‘“;
performed on several of the bodies found on?
the premises,” the bulletin report reads;
“there are circumstances which preclude us
from taking any legal action.” \
Which is a pity.

l
‘ I

-0 THE ANIMAL WELFARE LEAGUE?

maintains half a dozen ambulances and the}
shelter at 6224 S. Wabash Av. It is a
nonprofit organization without endowment»...
and depends on public donations for its,
existence. ‘
At the imminent, Allen Glisch, manager of
the league, is looking for business places
which will permit displays of material during ;
Be Kind to Animals Week, May 2 thru 8. And '
the group’s annual spring benefit, to be held ,
Sunday, May 23, at the Midland Hotel, would
welcome donations to the sale tables or the "
White Elephant booth, which will be run by _
LindaGlisch and other teen-agers. I
The League’s Resale Shop now is open at

4846 S. Ashland AV., and small items for it ‘ «

should be taken directly to that address.

Furniture or other salable merchandise too,
large for easy handling will be picked up by ..
the league in response to telephone calls to . 9
Mrs. Ann Davis, manager of the shop, at
376-0088. i‘

_ /

The league, inCidentally, also has crema-
tion facilities for those wishing to have dead l 7:1?
pets taken care of in this manner. ' A

 

 




T‘. ,i ; L
' ”(9/ WI} (LL)

1, its.” 1

(Hit \(U lRlbU\h THUR

Animal Welfare Unit
to Cite Bob Cromie

 

i
l
l
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I

 

Robert Cromie, TRIBUNE col-
umnist, will receive the Albert
Schweitzer Memorial Award of

:the Animal Welfare Institute,

 

I
1
I
I

I

I
j
i

I

1
1

Ience fairs.
‘ columns, the Westinghouse Sci-

" ibert Humphrey ,

5 tographer.

a national organization, for his
fight against cruelty to ani—
mals, Mrs. Roger L. Stevens,
institute president, announced
yesterday.

The award, presented annu—
ally to the person the institute
believes has made the greatest
contribution to animal welfare,
will be given to Cromie next
Wednesday at the organiza-
tion’s annual meeting in St.
John’s Parish House in Wash-
ington D. C. The presentation
will be made by Sen. Percy.

“Cromie has fought hard
against a variety of abuses
against animals," Mrs. Stevens
said. “He writes about sub-
jects that we belieVe need at—
tention and gets magnificent
results.”

Among Cromie’s c o l u. m n s
pointed out by the institute

.were those about cruel experi—
.ments on animals performed

by high school students for sci-
As a result of the

ence Talent Search set a prece-

dent this year by refusing to

exhibit inhumane projects.
Past recipients of the award

5 are former Vice President Hu-

Rachel Car-
son the late author; and Stan
Wayman, Life magazine pho-

 

 

Robert Cl‘omie

The institute, a national ed—
ucational association and a not
for-profit organization, was
founded in 1951. Its publica-
tions are distributed thruout
the world.

Cromie, former book 'editor
of THE TRIBUNE, is now a
general columnist. He is host
of: Book Beat, the Channel '11.
Monday night television show
for which he received a Pea-
body Award in 1.968 and 3 Chi-
cago Emmy in 1966. He also is
host of the WGN-TV talk show,
Cromie Circle. Cromie is an
author and a former reporter
and war correspondent.

The Schweitzer Award will

also include a $500 check.

_LA‘—‘A‘—~IL‘-H_~ _....

. ‘14».A

 

 




(Q

A
. L‘./

, i:
11:1.

(

//
,5;

\

l
a!“

 

Cromle

 

Jaycees Stop Pigeon Shooting

0 THE INDIANAPOLIS JAYCEES have quit shooting that
town’s pigeons. Instead, with the approval of Humane Society
officers and the cooperation of G. D. Searle & Co. of Skokie,
they will feed the pigeons corn impregnated with a
chemosterilant that inhibits the laying of fertile eggs but does
not harm the adult birds._

The result, according to John Gwin, director of the animal
health division of Searle, will be a “reduced” pigeon 1
population, not elimination of all the pigeons in town. The
p1 ocess Gwin says is not 100 per cent effective.

Announcement of the Jaycees’ change of strategy,
apparently brought on by mounting proteSts over the Sabbath
afternoon shooting on downtown streets, was made by Mike
Simmons executive director of the Jaycees, who said that $400
already had been pledged by the group toward the $25, 000
needed for the two year experiment Both Col Bernard Beck
executive diiectm of the Indianapolis Humane Society, and
John Hoyt, president of the Humane Society of the United
States, hailed the plan as a major improvement in the
anti—pigeon 1111111.

Jeff Lantz, Indianapolis Jaycees p1esident, said he was
pleased with the new pioposal, which he believes will have
g1eat civic support. Lantz said he 1eceived many letters-

‘ concerning the Sunday shoots, none of them favorable.

Q GWIN, WHO EXPLAINED that the corn set out for the
pigeons was too large to be ingested by song birds and had no
birtlrretardant effect on mammals, added that the only ,
sideweffects on the pigeons themselves, even if a greedy bird ‘
gorged on the stuff, would be a temporary state resembling
dizziness or intoxication

He added that the p1oduct has been approved by the
Depaitment of Agriculture, the Food and Drug Administration ‘1
and the Fish and Wildlife Division of the Department of the
Interior. It is the first such chemosterilant to be federally '
licensed. The treated corn, he said, would be fed to the pigeon
population for a 10 day period during Feb1uary or March and
should be offered again in August in warmer areas.

Curiously enough, the chemical used was tried on people ‘

latter having been tried on animals] while it was being tested

as~a possible way to lower the cholesterol level in humans.
Prof. William Elder of the University of Missouri discovered
the sterilizing possibilities after the cholesterol control

potential Was found to be missing.

9 INDIANAPOLIS IS the largest city in the country where the
steiilant will have been tried Other places whe1e it has been
used with as yet incomplete 1esults because of lack of time to
determine them, include Lake Mills Wis; Za nesville, Ohio,
O1lando and St Petersbui g, Fla , {.11 pm 5 Ferry, Va, Par ma

K‘ Ohio, Leavenwmth Penitentiary, the Norwich [Conn ] Hospital

and the University of Delaware. .
Because of the firm’ 5 desiie to have the chemosterilant ‘
checked out on the widest possible basis, the Indianapolis
Jaycees are getting a Cut-rate on the pigeon feed. ‘
G-win was horrified when asked if there were any chance
the sterilant could wipe out the pigeon completely.
“None at all,” he said, “people would never stand for

kthat ”

 

 

 

 

 

 




Hr“

 

Broadcasts of Rodeos Draw Protest

Q1 i:
@“THE HUMANE SOCIETY pf“ the United

States has protested to the Federal Commu- .

nications Commission against the telecasting
Or broadcasting of rddeo events on the
grounds that the public is deceived into
belie‘vingthat rodeo animals are wild.

The society, in a statement just released
from New York, declares: I

“Rodeo performances are portrayed o the

viewing public as a form of contest, pitting
"the skill and courage of a lone coWboy
against the cunning and strength of a
naturally wild, dangerous animal.”

But, the Statement continues, the animals

are made to appear wild by the application of
electric prods and by putting “bucking
straps” around their most sensitive parts;

In its""request that such broadcasts be
halted, the society adds that the rodeo is
against the public interest “because it
violates the overriding public policy against
cruelty to animals and violates accepted
standards of b r o a d c a s t i n g regarding
cruelty.”

John A. Hoyt,’ president of The Humane
Society, said there is considerable evidence
that animals used in rodeos sometimes are
injured so severely that- they must be
destroyed. "The society asks that if theFCC
does not agree to prohibit the broadcasting of
rodeo spectacles it at least order that any
such broadcast5~~be accompanied by state—
ments of the methods and 'devices used to
madden the animals.

The group earlier had petitioned the

Federal Trade Commission to issue a “cease
and desist” order against rodeos.

e .ANYONE INTERESTED in saving what is

left of the nation’s wild horses should write in
support of S. 1116, a bill introduced by Sen.
Henry M. Jawckson [D., Wash] and Iii-1.13:.g
5375, introduced by Rep. Walter Baring
[D., Nev.], which offer protection to the wt '
horses and burros on public lands which now 5
are being hunted down by so- -calied “sports
men,” slaughtered for use as pet food or
fertilizer or killed by 1a nchers ea 3 to 3
protect the grazing land for their own 13 ecK.
Sen. Jackson’s. bill, pointing nut that the
number of wild horses and burros has
dwindled from 2 million to “less than 17,000
in number” during this century, predicts that
the last wild horse will vanish within 10 yle.
if nothing is done. The bill wou1d 19.171111 ire the i

secretary of the interior to estao---‘1 3.1 1131 .
supervise at least a dozen refuges‘ ‘with the ,1
advice of a board of qualified scient1sm ’ and
also provides that in case of eye rpo; iilation ,
some animals can then be sold “to private
individuals” but may not be dispo
inhumanely. .

The bill providesfor a'fine of not more ‘
than $2,000 or imprisonment for on year, or
both, for anyone guilty of violating its
provisions. And it concludes:

“Time is running out for the va; wring
free- roaming horses which inhabit our public ,
land—land Which belongs to all the American 3
people—a large segment of whom have-
responded to the continuing plight of these
majestic animals.”

Sen. Jackson is chairman of the Senate
Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs,
which will hold hearings on the bill April 20.
He may be addressed at the Senate Ofﬁce .
Building, Washington, D. C., 20510. .

m

3‘5,"
(3
1-
L1

 




 

__ AilHliZAGQ TRIBUNE, TUESDAY,MARCH 9,. 1971

 

 

Discuss Qruelty '

o OPENING THE MAIL: From the Nation's!
Anti~Vivisection Society, 100 East Ohio St, a
bulletin concerning an experiment at Yerkes
Regional Primate Research Center, Emory
University, in which a professor is heping he
make an alcoholic out of. a baby chimpanzee

“so he can be studied as a model in. order
to treat human alcoholics.”

Thus far the experimenter, Dr. Waiter
Allen Pieper, has discovered that a mild to
severe dependency on the milk-anci~alcohol
mixture develops within 8 to 10 weeks and
that if the formula is changed abruptly the

 

‘4'“ 4 ., r ,

"4"
,4."
f. .t

 

 

Win—d

chimps “deveiop mild tremors and some gs
into convulsions.” ﬁne baby chimp died 18
hours after his whisky was withheld. These
results don’t seem especially surprising, since
Dr. Pieper is feeding them, on occasion, the
equivalent of a quart and a half of whisky a

t day as compared to an averageusized man.

The Anti-Vivisection Society inquires why
such studies cannot be conducted on already
addicted humans, and suggests writing your
“U. S. Senators and Representative to ask if
any of your tax-money supports this experi-

, meat,”

 

 

Naiional AntinVisiseetion Society

103 East Obie §treet
Chicago, illinois 606M

 

 

 




 

 

ﬂ!
1

1 ‘3 an
M, 1
ts SOh'iEllOW _ .. . something repellent. [for me at
least] in a bunch of people dressing up in their best bibs and
tuckers, whatever those are, and going out to chase a
bewildered animal with horse and hound until it either
manages to escape or is torn to pieces by the dogs.

This is called, euphemistically, “riding to the hounds” or,
more realistically, a ioxhunt, but out in Colorado, where foxes

cmnindv are too smai t to live, the dr essed up people ride out ._
to chase the coyote, or so goes a story in Women 8 Wear Daily
out of Littleton, Colo, where “the Arapahoe Hunt is the only
iecognized Hunt in the country where the quarry is a coyote
instead of a fox. ” _

’lhese madcaps, who use the 251,000—acre ranch of Lao-'1‘ 1 M
C. Phipps Jr., for their playground, not only wear the
traditional garb ~‘sc21let co2ts for the men, black coats for
the ladies, and hard hats for every 01 e—but have managed, it
seems, to develop the ability to know what a coyote is thinking.

Otherwise ,ho v do you explain the fact that the hunters
know “it’sa agame between the coyotes and the hounds?” Or
that the hunters are fascinated by thee game and‘ ‘just ride
aloe:- to Om» '1 r: it” and the coyote “enjoys” the game as
much as the dogs.

The story, ritten by Lee wohltert of the Denver bureau of
the newspape1,dcilaies that the hunteis are “very concerned
with wildlife cons eivation”/ and a1e very pleased because just
two coyotes were ripped to ribbons last season and only seven
the year before

All of which reminds me of a conversational or change
between Dan Sor,hin early morning diskjockey, and one of his
guests, overa Chicago radio station a few years ago. The two
had been discussing music, and the guest asked:

‘Dan, what’s the name of the piece the bugler blows to'
start a fox hunt. ‘7”
“Sick call?” Sorkin asked.

9 HERE IS A BIT of information which will interest all who
} wrote protesting letters to the Westinghouse Electric
corporation aftei reading in this column a few months ago
about awards me do £01 animal experimentation by high school
students competing in the Westinghouse science talent search.
One of those protesters has forwarded a reply from 3
Westinghouse vice president, 1 hich sayzs
“In View of the concern you expressed to us regarding
experimentation involving animals, you will be interested to
know that I have been advised by Science Service in
,Washington of its plans to prohibit use of animals in
experiments and projects for the Westinghouse Science Talent
Search, beginning with the 1970-71 competition.” .
Congratulations to V.’estingh011Se, and thanks to all whose
letteis undoubtedly played a major part in this decision

g.

 

 

 




 

-—1 1.,

 

2011110 1111:”11 11:1“.11’ 1.? 11111111111

 

m ””5 7:51 W 1.1 "5‘. 3‘.
‘ 'l ”\‘A ’3’? if"’:-“«l‘ji uz?~‘i="i"'”’i“11 r2313; " é 52‘ 11111111 3” (“*va C:
hank-1114:: w Raise a $11.12.;va Mancini a was. 1.411%”?

’ so A CONCERNED CITIZEN of HomeWtood has sent. a com—
" ment on the r scent court case involving LaiTy owman, the

Chicagoan a1 rested after tryin1 to aid the driver of a car
i11’1r’ol;e:l in an “111111.111 with a poll: ’einar‘1s automobile.
Young Bowman and a fire lieutenant who came to his verbal
defense both were found guilty, and this is the reaction of

’ the writer _/

“This 11101111115 I re ad. none the decision on the disposi-

tion cftn” cos e was a ‘split’ :11: I consider this most
; unfair and it is no wonder that ‘good Samaritans’ are fast
Y disappearing W" 11 “t a sad commentary On our present day

society. l 1 1. \

“It would seem that the police would praise the efforts

of the 310111111 1111111 and. the added 5 1011011’. of the firemﬂan Lt.

.. Martinhus, instead of arresting them

“This 501t of thing is not an isolated case any more.
It is becoming; more and more pretale at and is the cause
of the disenchantment of the p 1hlic with the law.”

This is notmit seems worth mentioning—the reaction of
some memhe 1’ of a minority group, or of a fellow colle gian,

, or of any of the sectors of society that sometimes criticize
~ the police The writer is a Homewood housewife.

(a TiilS SLEIIS LIKE a good place to add to the corn; eiatula-

,tions due the five policemen from the Shakespeare avenue
. district who broke dm ’11 the doors of a couple of apartments

”'"yin a flaming building last Sn nday and rescued eight sleeping

shildi en

’ The five‘policemen aie Sgt. Robert Johnson and Pat1 01111011 I ‘
"QThomas Franzo, Michael McGuin, Daniel Antzoulat es and'
""Frank Ramirez. Firemen say that without their help the 12

f occupants of the building-«Vim were all asleep—might 1.er
‘ easily have died.Lt.-Rohert Weisskopf of the Shakespeare dis-

1.
1 badge or othe1 insignia worn by policemen who have been
‘ honored for heroism or other praiseworthy action, there ought A,

trict said the quintet will be recommended for commendations. .1.

This is an exCellent idea, and if there is not now some

to be. There should be more public recognition for outstanding
members of the force, to help offset the criticism which is

' quite properly forthcoming when some of the nonoutstanding

members fail to behave as hey should.

e ‘A MAN WHO IDENTIFIES himself as a member, of the.

Illinois State Rifle assocaition, the Loyal Order of Moose Rod

and Gun club, the National Rifle association, and the McHenry -
Sportsmen’s club, has written to defend the live turkey sheet .

held annuallv by the Klara; eis club of Keuaskum Wis

His thesis is that sine e tur-kcys some times are killed by
having their nee: :s wrung or heads ch tipped off 1 till hatchcts
it is totli 51h to ob1cct to the E-iY”ani 1:18 of Kenaskum tying

their tnmws up and imitinb the ne has in to have fun 7

by. shoot' mg them
MY only ICIIBly- is that In" d iinition of snort and that of
the 1 riter, a resident of Park Hid go

, somehow fail to coincide.-

l

I did not ree aliae it was spmting to shoot at a live target ‘

which was tied dovn. I am happy to be enlightened in the
m: itt’c1.

 




 

‘ “47.3 ~ 70

W60 seem

.m...‘ - .

5 .

., s9: 5110:1217 or" easement!“
. ‘ them sin ' the hands >01 fher- 13198195?“

. eitheﬁme agfiw’we' gametes.
erasamParenthexI is chairman: '2
1 '.'::7andfi‘ his committee, Whit-thy indudes two

Rewaeynayne m 1e] and Rep 40‘1“-

in 3, heid‘fhearings on, the matter earlier this

wdlistenedto same- upsetting teStiInony. One witness.

y ..,-. 1 Weh’are institute, toid the
* atoms that 140,858 animalsand 492,280 birdswere imported
I mtathis northwest iyearﬁ'iwi‘th‘as many as 1,000 in a ‘single
shipment. Shemeontinuedi‘ ‘ . '

, “In. one shipment alOne,:;;there were 109 dead monkeys and
2*dead Ocelots..‘ ".5 .The mortality rate in this single shipment
éwas__15 per centhne oftheinspectors . . . saidithe 78 dead
animals he Observed ‘were' denSely packed and had no facilities
for food and water.’ . . . I saw crates of macaws and parrots
which had come all the way from Quito, Ecuador. . . The.
macawsiwere crannned into crates}? inches high-by 13 inches

deep ;,.. There was? no Water inithe crates.‘.«. . It is
Impossible to get water to them 'becausethe double wire at the
frentof the crate is designed; in such assay that nothing can
get thru‘it. lines, told- that it is up tothe airline to feed 'and
Water theammals No airline.eﬁipleyeiwoulditakethe Wooden

 

creams meme e we km the be ;;

‘- 39s? a bin;- to? 'proteeseaptive: ani-

”1:onme 1m statsgwmmmrm m 1:

five different oil‘cuses during the last 15: years, told how some
fidiii‘étistfownerstm'jstreat their animals. '

3‘t -‘,‘.Qne~omei€told' me benealiy did not’care ifthey lived or
died; they were a ‘nec'ess'ary evil.’ Anotherlsaid: ‘I won’t get a
9 vet. .It’siifcheaper.,tog get. a new animaLEQLastyear, I joined a

fifth show and was asked to come‘fha‘ck‘this Season. I had a
lion, tiger, leopard, chimp, rhesus monkey, andtapiri came
to find the elephant trainer in charged; the animal‘s..He drank
most of the time, and no animalghad had any Water for 24
hours. He was finally fired,‘and“-"I £061! over. The old lion almost
tore the cage apart to get at the water. . . -.”

O CHRISTINE STEVENS, secretary of the Society for Animal
Protective Legislation, told the representatives of a breeder. of
rats, mice, and guinea pigs in New York who so starved "his
aninials that they reportedly gnawed their way Out Of the cages
in. quest of food. The. president of this concern later .was
arrested by New York - City police-after he! reportedly was
caught bottling rabbit blood whichhevintended to sell as
human. ' ' '1 _ 9 . ,_ ‘

Copies of the Society for Animal; Protective Legislation
comment on H. R. 13957, and the need for its passage, can he
obtained by writing the society at 1P. ‘0. Box 3719‘, Georgetown
station, Washingtim, 20007. Letters toat’he chairman or other
members of the House committee responsible for reporting out
H; R. 13957 should be addressed to the'House Office‘building,
Washington. . ' .

H. R. 15188 and a Senate bill, S. 3234, also are pending and
deserve support. These would prohibit the shooting of animals
from the air, a form of hunting indulged in by some so-called‘
sportsmen.

 

1%!ﬁ-EQ‘Y-Zav’c» ~‘: :3» . -: .. .. -=. 1 '
".H, qz‘e .;,-', :-1‘ “r... 7“"-_“- j':

f.-
:.

1,“

 




.1

a sNﬂAY,

 

 

. > Bab Cromie

 

AN ATTORNEY in Chilton, Wis, writes to
say that “tremendous pressure” is beingput on
Craig Rupp, supervisor of the Superior National
Forest in Minnesota, to rescind his ban on the
shooting of timber wolves in that area.

Even tho the wolves have become an
endangered species, the shooting and trapping
for souvenir pelts continues, because. prices
being paid have advanced well beyond those
ordinarily offered on the raw fur market.

“This may result in diminishing the species
to a point beyond which it cannot come back,”
said Rupp. \- “We have seen this happen
elsewhere with other species.

“We are already aware of heavy trapping
pressure on the timber wolf in the Superior
forest as a result of this new profitable market.
As a». result of this pressure, two valuable
scientific research wolves—one with a radio
transmitter collar on and the other with data
tags—have been trapped and shot. These acts
have set back a very valuable . scientific
research study. In another instance, a
reasearcher was able to buy back a research
animal at the going ‘tourist rate’ of $100. The
-. animal had been injured in the trap but was
release-d by. the scientist.” " ’

Rupp explained that the order closing much
= of the national forest to wolf hunters is an
“interim measure” while the United States
Forest Service and Minnesota state officials
develop a more durable plan for protecting the
timber wolf in one of its last remaining
breeding areas. .

THE ATTORNEY, R. W. Lutz, said in his
covering letter: ‘

“There are those in the state“ of Minnesota
who desire to wipe out the remaining, wolf
population and eradicate it from the face of the
earth. . . . If you know anything about the

 

*‘ A Plea to Preserve Timber Wolves

politics of Minnesota you will know that the
timber wolf has become a hot topic of disputes
and has actually been involved in some of the
recent gubernatorial campaigns. There ’are

those Who still feel that the wolf is a ‘bad’
animal. . . .

“Any help you could give . . . to the Wolf and
its continued existence I know will be greatly
appreciated by those of us who feel that the
wolf has as much right to existence in this
world as we do ourselves, even if the wolf is not
capable of appreciating your assistance.

“I know that tremendous pressure is being

exerted on Mr. Rupp to reverse his position,
and I am certain that a concerned public can
give him the necessary backing so that he can
remain firm. But the antiwolf pressure can
become so paranoiac that its
unbelievable to behold. Thus, any publicity that
can be 'given to the situation as it now exists in
northern Minnesota will be a boon to the
preservation of that little which still remains of
our natural wilderness. Mr. Rupp can be
reached at the Federal Building, Duluth, Minn.
55802.”
‘ Let’s close with this paragraph from an
article on wolves by Joan McIntyre in Early
Times, as reprinted in a publication called NOt
Man Apart:

“Where are the wolves now, as I write this
and you read it? ’ Caught in predator control
traps, helplesslygnawing at a leg that won’t
give way from the living body? Lifeless _ pelts

hung in the cold vaults of furriers awaiting the

next fashion change; the coming ski season?
Pets in hostile cities, loved perhaps, but barely
understood as they pace their compounds or
huddle in the shade of a sagging doghouse? In
zoos?”

force is .

 

 

 

 

 

”Ki-c , 5'35,

tame; 4"?
/ o l “:4. II . .

’ ‘ ' .467

 

 




18-—

Section 1

 

 

Who Would 11111 a. Pet?

O SOMEONE IN THE NEIGHBORHOOD of 90th and Criandon
almost killed Big Boy Monday nigh ‘1' 1111: (111 3211-11. 15.11 1111111111 a
few inches of the friendly Golden Retriever and pulling the3
3 trigger, apparently as the dog was in the yard of its owner, Paul 1
H. Peters, a disabled Navy veteran

Little Bit, a Beagle also owned by Peteis scratched on the 3
door after shooting seemingly in an effoitl to notiiy someone
of Big Boys plight. Peters, finding the 70 pound retriev en in
great agony, telephoned Dr. Charles T. Flenioy of the Grove
Heights Animal Hospital, 1047 E afith St. who gave Big Boy
emergency treatment, then hurried him off for X— —rays.

Dr. Flennoy repoited finding 79 shotgun pellets in the dog s
shoulder, but said Big Boy should recovei barring infection,
which always is a danger with gunshot wounds.

The question now is who shot Big Boy, and why? And was a
piece of cake, which Peters found in the yard earlier Monday,
poisoned? Peters believes it may have been, since the dog
showed symptoms of illness, and he is having the cake analyzed.

It is hard to ”imagine the sort of person who would shoot any
dog, other than a rabid or attacking one, and especially difficult
to picture what sort would shoot Big Boy who is such a favorite ,
with the neighborhood youngsters that they knock at the Peters’
door to ask if the dog can come out to play. It also was the dog’s 3
habit when Peters lived near Van Vlissingen Road, to gnaw thru 1

‘4

 

the c101: 1es line atte ched to his c ollar simply for the pleasure of 3
walking to scnool with. his young friends.

0 PETERS Oll‘ﬁD BEG BOY about 10 months ago when the
animal still was a poppy. He failed in ettorts to trace an owner 1
L111. e Bit sl wrc up 3 about the same time, frightened and;
forlorn. and Peters finally won his confidence as well. Since then 1
the two dog s have become inseparable and both are great
p1aym 111:. for all the l: idsi 11.1 the neighborhood

Dr. Flennoy, pointing out that the re t1 lever, while a large
dog, also isa ’3 very g entle one, call. ed the shooting “malicious and
hideous ”

J. J. Sha fie , man ging director of the Anti- Cruelty Society,
saidt that state and cit: laws provide 1111.11. fines up to $200 for
shooting pets or for the indiscriminate scattering of poison. He
warned. that it was quite possible some young child might sample .
a piece of poisoned food and die as a result. '

He added that the Society 111111111 a reward for information
leading to the arrest and conviction of anyone set ting out poison
for pets and the"; a re 1 e: 2112111713 11511111 the Sec iety would be
happy to appear in cow-:11 to lend moral suppm ort” to anyone
bringing chame of c ‘uelt y or assault involving animals.

Shafier also cited a state law which carries a fine of up to
$500 or imprisonment up to one year, or both. for anyone
convicted of “111101171711eg injuring” the domestic animal of
another.

 

1
$8 10

Peters plans to build a fence, and he has notified the police“ 3
He also would appreciate .
mformatlon from anyone who may have seen someone carrying a 2

about the shooting of Big Boy.

shotgun in the neigl‘ihorhood or tossing food into his yard.

Iioldnp 11 ads szGun Is Falre

PUEBLO, (3010. Feb 17 a bit haken o
(El-When a man at rempted to the real gun
.. hold up Robert Ross , assistant have been ’
manager of a. local super- I
market, in the middle of the
day, Ross refused to give him
the money. The holdup man ran '
from the s with an - u

. 1'

 

as

gpartment of Commerce’s

l forecasts

arning about 3
”1 it must ?

CHICAGO" ‘T‘h

Tells What
Public Asks
‘ eather

[Chicago Tribune Press Service]

WASHINGTON, Feb 17
what does the public want most
from the weatherman?

“The latest observation of the
weather and a short—term local
for”ecast, says Dr George P.
NCressman director of the De—
na-
tional weather service. But, he

adds, a listing beyond that
contains “some surprises.”

A recent survey by the
American Telephone 8: Tele-
graph Co. revealed that there

; “is a psychological requirement

for weather services. Apparent-
ly many people want the latest
forecast simply because it
reassures them. It shows that
the United States government
is watching the weather and
that bad weather will arrive
and depart more or less on3
schedule.’

Dr. Cressman’s
came in a recent speech at the
3'annual meeting of the Ameri-
can Meteorological Societ in
San Francisco. He had been

1 asked to talk about the public’s
3 uses of his agency’s output.

Listing
“amount

these roughly
of demand,’

by

the current weather, local

for nearby travel

forecasts for outdoor sports an
‘ recreation, forecasts of sta

nant air that may result in .
pollution and severe- weat;
warnings, which, altho in
quent, are the most. impor'

of all.

But longer-range fore
are extemely importa,
industry and agricultur
pointed out.

 

comments

 

1 ‘ ‘
3 Who
0 1' THU
that sep

conversa ‘
any safe

slid op
20s. He
beard.
didn’t .
F";-
was 3'
Soot“
fro
tim
1111;

 

1

l
1

1
1

Dr. 3
'Cressman said people ask for:

 




FOR RELEASE DECEMBER 16, 1970 ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
P.O. Box 3u92
Grand Central Station
New York, N.Y. 10017

Telephone: 202-337-5ﬂlu

Washington, D.C. - Senator Charles Percy (R., Ill.) today pre-

sented the 1970 Albert Schweitzer Medal of the Animal Welfare Institute

to Bob Cromie, Chicago Tribune columnist. The ceremony took place at

 

h:30 P.M., December 16th, at St. John's Parish House in Georgetown.

Mr. Cromie courageously criticized cruelty to animals in a series
of columns this year. Some of the reforms he plead for have already
taken place. For example, the Westinghouse Science Talent Search which
gives large prizes to high school science students has eliminated from
competition any projects in which animals could be caused pain or dis-
tress.

Mr. Cromie was an active supporter of The Animal Welfare Act of
1970 which expands the existing federal law, P.L. 89-5uu, to include
all kinds of warmeblooded animals in circuses, zoos, the wholesale pet
trade and throughout their entire stay in laboratories. The bill was
unanimously approved by the U.S. House of Representatives and Senate
last week.

The Schweitzer Medal is presented annually by the Animal Welfare
Institute to the individual who has contributed most outstandingly
during the year to the advancement of animal protection. Previous
medallists include: Rachel Carson, Hubert Humphrey, warren Magnuson

and Mike Monroney.

 




CHICAGO TRIBUNE.

WEDNESDAY.

FEBRUARY 17. 1971

 

 

 

L. A. Clinic Aids Pet Sterilization

A (.‘l'l‘Y-Oll’NED CLINIC to perform low—cost

sterilization operations on cats and dogs will
open today in Los Angeles as an aid to con-
troling the animal population in that city. This
is the first municipally Operated center of its
kind in this country and will continue on a trial
basis for the remainder of the year.
The proposed program was submitted to the
(ty Council 18 months ago by the Department
0. Animal Regulation and recommended last
Augus st by the Council 5 Public Health and Wel-
fare Committee. Council approval was given
unanimously, with Mayor Sam Yorty also in
agreement.

Robert 1. Rush, general manager of the De-
partment of Animal Regulation, announced that
facilities of the clinic, which will have a full-
time veterinarian in charge, will be available
to all wishing to have their pets operated upon
at the single price of $17.50 for spaying and
$11.50 for neutering.

‘1
.11
p
Y

- [A telephone check with one Chicago animal
hospital and two suburban ones found that
their charges varied from $30 to $40 for snagging
cats and from $35 to $55 for spaying dogs. Neu-
tcring of male animals ranged from $15 to $22
for cats and $30 to $50 for dogs.)

RUSH EXPLAINED THAT the program
would be of most benefit to pet owners who
cannot afford the prices at private animal hos-
pitals and said that he believes the clinic will
be self-supporting before the end of its trial
period.

The primary reason for the clinic, of course,

is to reduce the number of cat and dog births
and thus diminish the number of strays. Last
year Los Angeles handled 133.040 unwanted
or lost animals—90 per cent of them dogs and
catsmcompared with 118,092 in the previous
year.

The new clinic will make it less expensive
for anyone obtaining a dog or cat from city
animal shelters to comply with a California law
that such animals must be spayed or neutered.

Mayor Yorty said he believes other cities
thruout the nation will be watching the Los
Angeles experiment and that the idea will
spread. Thus far there have been inquiries from
New York City, Sacramento, San Diego, San
Mateo, North Las Vegas and -- among other
places -— Switzerland.

THE VETERINARIAN WILL determine
whether the animal is of proper age and in good
enough health for the operation and that each

' dog brought in is licensed.

Facilities at the clinic include two postopera~
tit/e recovery rooms which are air-conditioned
and contain stainless steel cages large enough
so patients. Pets will. remain one to two days
after surgery.

Rush said the clinic will mail its pamphlet

to all pet owners interested in using its serv-

ices.

“This humane method of animal control is
highly preferable to the wholesale destruction
of unwanted animals, he said.

if Chicago city officials wish more informa~

tion, Rush may be reached at 111 E. lst St.,
Los Angeles.

 

THE NATIONAL ANTLVIViSECTIQN SQCIETY
100 EAST OHIO STREET, CHICAGO, tumors 60611

 




(ﬂﬁcagn (Erik 11118

WORLD'S GREATEST NEWSPAPER

 

TRIBUNE TOWER ' CHICAGO, ILL. 60511
T '- r" g “} Vii.”
45E (3. 1., .19-

Telephone 222-3232 0 Area Code 312

r _ T :14.
LSEﬁI‘ 141753.. in

1 ' .f_ ., ‘t :
ﬁmEﬁé AETOXEG 1‘

L) 1.11 '

Hal col mus to you.

 




FOR RELEASE DECEMBER 16, 1970 ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
P.O. Box 3h92
Grand Central Station
New York, N.Y. 10017

Telephone: 202-337-5h1u

Washington, D.C. - Senator Charles Percy (R., Ill.) today pre-

sented the 1970 Albert Schweitzer Medal of the Animal Welfare Institute

to Bob Cromie, Chicago Tribune columnist. The ceremony took place at

 

#:30 P.M., December 16th, at St. John's Parish House in Georgetown.

Mr. Cromie courageously criticized cruelty to animals in a series
of columns this year. Some of the reforms he plead for have already
taken place. For example, the Westinghouse Science Talent Search which
gives large prizes to high school science students has eliminated from
competition any projects in which animals could be caused pain or dis-
tress.

Mr. Crdmie was an active supporter of The Animal Welfare Act of
1970 which expands the existing federal law, P.L. 89~Suu, to include
all kinds of warmeblooded animals in circuses, zoos, the wholesale pet
trade and throughout their entire stay in laboratories. The bill was
unanimously approved by the U.S. House of Representatives and Senate
last week.

The Schweitzer Medal is presented annually by the Animal Welfare
Institute to the individual who has contributed most outstandingly
during the year to the advancement of animal protection. Previous
medallists include: Rachel Carson, Hubert Humphrey, warren Magnuson

and Mike Monroney.

 




Dear Mr. Patterson,

Here is the markaup of the invitation which
Mrs. Stgvans made. Wk will naad to have
tha envelapes here jugt as goon as yam can
manage it because thay have to be hand
addrassed.

WE will need to have 500 invitatians and
envelopeg. (A few-extra envelopes mnuld ha
goad in casa of mistakes)

Gall'ma if‘ymu have any‘questions.

Thanks!

Barbara Gnuld

 




TM ”heaters of the Animal ‘Veuare Institute

request ('16 Loner of your Presence

at the Presentation Lv

mm M5 p" "j

of til ,
‘ “ I o
Schweitzer Award [or 126;

to

W 8° 6 00m {C-
wea...;gzdfiﬁﬁ ﬂimtcr ’

a rtllirty o’clock
Saint John’s Parislx House, 3240 O Street, NHW
RSVP.
Mrs. Roger Stevens

Reception following
3410 Que Street, N.W. tile

ceremony

 




thitagn (Etibune

THE WORLD'S GREATEST NEWSPAPER

 

 

DEC. ll, 19?1
W __

TRIBUNE TOWER CHICAGO, ILL. 60611

Telephone 222-3232 . Area Code 312

DEar Christine:

I'm sorry I Shall be unablE to watch Cong. Thomas FolEy rEcEiVE your
oherishad SohWEitZEr Award, but plEaSE Extahd my congratulations to
him for his finE work.

Did you know that your husbané had not hEard thE.story about how you
OﬂCE hit your fathEr in ﬁdEfEnSE" of your dog? Plaasa, also, tell your
hard—working husband that I am delighted hE now holds his nah post
with thE hatiohal Book CommittEE, altho I don't SEE how hE dOEé all thE
things hE mahaaao to do.

ﬂurk-R’v—mx’w :r4<‘...,,.,,-, .
— «r ‘u-*:..\..;__‘;

5:51 135:: war-1:1" re gard S ’
/§Wf“é/M £4“?wa

RobErthromiE

: sq.
“- 7n-W
' “WW” awe-1:!”

 




 

3 Rep Thomas 43 Foley,
‘j-V'Wésh" is thl‘si/j‘year s

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




Effie maﬁhingmn 131151:
WASHINGTON, D. C.
D. 500,118 SUN. 657,560

DEC 8 1971

 

sh)? will recelve the annual
‘ V ' ;¢"‘§chwe1tzer Award of

 

 

 

 

 




@112 1311211ng gnaw

WASHINGTON, D. C.
D. 303,505 SUN. 338,862

05915 1971

 

 




The Directors ot the Animal} Weat‘are institute

request the honor of your Presence
at the Presentation Ly
Senator Warren Ma nuson
8
and
Senator Henr Jackson
y
of the
Schweitzer Awarri {or 1971

to

Congressman Thomas foaey

on Tuesday, the fourteenth of Decemher
at three o’clock
United States Capitol, Room S 228

R.S.V.P.

Mrs. Roger Stevens Reception following
1686 34th Street, Nﬂw the ceremony

 




