SOCIETY FOR ANIMAL PROTECTIVE LEGISLATION
P.O.Box3719
Georgetown Station
Washington, DC. 20007

(202) 337-2334

'Statement on Appropriations for the
National Institutes of Health'FY/SG

Before the Senate Subcommittee on Labor, Health and Human
Services, Education and {elated Agencies ApprOpriations

by Herbert Rackow, M.D.
-May 29, 1985

My name is Herbert Rackow. I am a retired physician, diplomate of the
American Board of Anesthesiology, Professor Emeritus in Anesthesiology of
the College of Physicians and Surgeons, Columbia University, and a Fellow
of the American Academy of Pediatrics. My professional career was at the
College of Physicians and Surgeons, Columbia University, and at Babies
THOSpital of the Columbia Presbyterian Medical Center. I was full time, and
did both clinical practice and research. I am presently a Director of the
Scientists Group for Reform of Animal Experimentation. My statement is on

nbehalf of the Society for Animal Protective Legislation.

‘A year ago, members of the Animal Liberation Front broke into the labor-
atory of the Head Injury Clinical Research Center of the University of Penn-
sylvania, and stole 60 hours of videotape, made by the staff as a record of
research in the laboratory. The breakain was illegal, and I cannot condone
it. But I can understand the reasons for such extreme action, just as I can
understand the reasons that, over two hundred years ago, led colonists dis-

guised as Indians, to break into ships in Boston harbor, and dump their cargo

of tea into the ocean. Extreme provocation sometimes causes extreme action.

I have seen a 25 minute edited version of these stolen tapes, and was
very much disturbed by what I saw. As an anesthesiologist, most of my pro—
fessional life was spent in the operating room. I know what preper profes—
sional behavior in the Operating room is. Hhat I saw in this 25 minute tape
of the University of Pennsylvania Head Injury Clinical Research Center made
me mad. I don't want my tax money Spent to support this group. I am sure

there would be many other peeple who would feel this way, once they saw the

tapes.

 




I saw dirty, non-sterile technique during surgery on baboons. I saw a
surgeon drOp an instrument to the floor, immediately bend down to pick up the
contaminated instrument, and then continue using it in the surgery. N.I.H.
Guidelines specify that aseptic surgical techniaue be used in baboons. Since
the senior scientists in this group state that there is always a trained
neurosurgeon present during these eXperiments, one must assume that they know

better, but really don't care.

I saw instances where baboons who had already received experimental head
trauma, were mocked and made fun of. Iisawrnonmalyzhealthy baboons, about to re-
ceive head trauma, who were commented on on in the same way . This attitude
was evident throughout most of the 25 minute period of the tape. I am well
aware that an occasional joke is made in the operating room, during surgery
on peOple. But it is only for the purpose of relieving tension, and is never
directed against the patient. The callous attitude of the staff of the Penn—
sylvania Head Injury Center is unacceptable and offensive. I am sure that
there are many other people who would be offended if they saw this tape
- peOple who are not opposed to animal experimentation, and who recognize the

contributions that it has made to our well-being.

. Finally, I saw baboons that appeared to me to be not anesthetized just
prior to receiving severe experimental head trauma. Two anesthetics were uSed
in these eXperiments. One was nitrous oxide, which was discontinued one hour
prior to the head trauma. Nitrous oxide has no anesthetic effect one hour
after being discontinued. The second anesthetic used was phencyclidine.

This does cause profound analgesia, but does not last forever. Another dose

should be given uhen the patient begins to show purposeful movements, i.e.

turning of the head toward a sound, or withdrawing a limb from a nOXious stim-

ulus. This is the kind of purposeful movement that 1 saw in the baboons just

prior to the head trauma. My impression that the baboons were not anesthetized

at the time of the head trauma, is confirmed by what Parke-Davis, the company

that markets phencyclidine,says concerning its duration of action. In their

product brochure, they state, that in baboons, an intramuscular dose of 0.8
- 1.0 mg. per K will produce a state of catalepsis . . . lasting 50 minutes,
with complete recovery in 153 minutes (average). Lumb and Jones (Veterinary

Anesthesia, 1973, p. 469~70) state that, in baboons, an intramuscular dose

 




of 1.5 - 3.0 mg. per k Causes a cataleptoid state . . . with recovery in

45 minutes to 2 hours. According to the protocols of the Head Injury Center,
the baboons that I san in the tape received one dose of phencyclidine of 1.0
mg. per K, 3 hours before the time of the head injury. In my opinion, the
baboons that I saw on the videotape were not anesthetized at the time of the

head injury.

I recognize that this work may be of potential value. But the way it is
carried out is unacceptable. I, and many others in this country, feel that
the least we can do is to make sure that experimental animals receive proper

care, and are not made to suffer unnecessarily.

Mr. Chairman, I reSpectfully request that the Congress withhold from
funding, all grants of public funds to the Head Injury Clinical Research Center

of the University of Pennsylvania.

 




