liei'é'ilifu-l‘iji-éatment of animals, should NR7 ’ “Wl . ,
;_.:,-.:--2tau'ght AfrOm the pulpit and in our Sunday1 1a? we SOW {11 the home and the school, 1'.
5f"SchoOls as a most imperative Christian duty.” 7W8 reap 1n. the nation.” ' ' ' - _. w

' ‘—B'ishop W. 'X. Ninde. . 2 '

-" . .....V.,H_.~—~~—~.~ﬁ_.-.,

“The crying sin of omission of most clergy-
men to-day is their silence regarding the in-
humanity of men to animals.”——-Ella Wheelerd“5T'CE

Wilcox. , ~1ng or M

,. 63>
:3 ”v 0's.-
M. 5§\\\\W//é£§82

 

BANDS OF MERCY. /

Ofﬁcers of Parcm‘ American Band of Mercy.—~ GEORGE T. ANGELL, Presi-
dent; JOSEPH L. STEVENS, Secretary.

Over ﬁfty-ﬁve thousand branches of the Parent American Band of
Mercy have been reported, with between two, and three million members.

 

“ I WILL TRY TO BE KIND.-TO 'ALL LI‘VING CREATURES, AND WILL
TRY TO PROTECT THEM FROM CRUEL USAGE.

“What is the Object of the Bands of Mercy?” “ To teach every child
and older person to seize every‘j‘opportunity to say a kind word or do a kind
act that will make some other human being or dumb'icreature happier ..... I

What is the use of teaching kindness to animals in Schools and Sunday
schools? 7' N ' ‘

Answer. The eminent French teacher, De Sailly, says, that when he be-
gan to teach kindness to animals in his School, he found his pupils became
not only kinder to animals, but also kinder to each other.

Out of about seven thousand persons who were when children carefully
taught kindness to the lower animals, in a large public school at Edinburgh,
it was found that not one had ever been charged with a criminal offence.

Out of two thousand criminals in American prisons, it was found that
only twelve had any pet animal during their childhood.

, Edward Everett Hale says: “We areallin‘the samexboatkboth animals
/’and men. You cannot promote kindness “to one withoutbeneﬁting the other-11
Is there anything which strikes more directly at the roots of wars, riots,
anarchy, and every form of cruelty, than humane education of the children in
all our public, private, and Sunday‘schools?

, Please think Enid—{€311 me if you can ﬁnd a better way for making children
merciful, than by teaching them to be constantly doing kind acts and saying
kind words to God’s lower creatures. . .

“I believe there is a great defect in our systems OfLEElUEEiiLQIL- I believe
that in our public schools it is quite as possible to develop the ,healt as the
intellect. . . . . I believe that the future student of American history
will—Vorider that in the public schools of a free government, whose very
existence depended upon public integrity and morals, so mar/z atz‘mz‘ioa should
liar/e [26672 paid io #26 caliioaz‘ioiz of flu zizz‘oilea‘, and so Ziz‘z‘lo 10 1/26 iiilizoaz‘ioiz of ill:
lzear .” —— GEO. T. ANGELL.

EXTRACT FROM MR. ANGELL’S ADDRESS AT THE ANNUAL MEETING OF “THE
NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SUPERINTENDENTS OF PUBLIC SCHOOLS,” AT
WASHINGTON, D. C.

“Nearly all the criminals of the future, . . . . are in our public schools now, and

We are educating them. We can mould them now if we will. To illustrate the power of

education:——we know that we can make the same boy Protestant, Roman Catholic, or

Mohammedan. It is simple a question of education. We may put into his little hands, as

ﬁrst toys, whips, guns, and swords, or may teach him, as the Quakers do, that war and

cruelty are crimes. We may teach him to shoot the little song bird in Springtime, with its
nest full of young, or we may teach him to feed the bird and spare its nest. We may go

 

l

 

l.

 




 

1

“I have not lived in vain

9

0‘
”'3

If I but stop one tear, or heal a wron,
Or lift a fainting robin into his nest again.

I have not lived in vain.”

Into the schools now with book, picture, song, ‘and story, and make neglected boys merciful,
or we may let them drift, until, asmen, they become sufﬁciently lawless and cruel to throw
our railway trains off the track, place dynamite under our dwelling houses or public build.
ings, assassinate our President, burn half our city, or involve the nation in civil war.

“ Is it not largely, if not w/colly, a question of education .9

“I am sometimes asked, ‘Why do you spend so much of your time and money in
talking about kindness to animals, when there is so much cruelty to men? ’ And I answer,
‘I am working at t/ze roots.’ Every humane publication, every lecture, every step, in doing
or teaching kindness to them, is a step to prevent crime,—-—a step in promoting the growth of
those qualities of heart which will elevate human souls, even in the dens of sin and shame,
and prepare the way for the coming of peace on earth and good will to men. . . .

‘j‘ Standing before you as the advocate of the lower races, I declare what I believe
cannot be gainsaid —— that just so soon and so far as we pour into all our schools the songs,
poems, and literature of mercy towards these lower creatures, just so soon and so far shall
we reach t/te roots not only of cruelty, out of crime.”

 

BANDS OF MERCY IN SCHOOLS.

More children can be reached through public and private schools than
in any other way.

As a ﬁrst step, the Superintendents of Schools and members of the School
Committees Should be interviewed, and their interest in the matter solicited
and gained.

The opportunities of a teacher to educate in humanity are very great. It
is a simple matter to form a Band of Mercy. The children should Sign the
pledge, choose a name, and elect a President and Secretary. It is well that
the teacher should be President. It need take but a few minutes of each
week for the scholars to repeat together the pledge. A time for exercises of a
miscellaneous character, meant to be in part a recreation, is set apart in most
schools. This time can occasionally be used for the Band of Mercy, and
thus avoid hindrance to regular study.

One Band in a Rhode Island school appoints a committee to arrange
the program for each meeting with the teacher’s assistance.

Reading lessons, etc., will give the interested teacher many opportunities
for reminders between regular meetings. Many teachers gladly use “pBZaclc
Beauty” as supplementary reading, and the children always enjoy it. It is
recommended for that purpose by Dr. Wm. T. Harris, United States Commis-
sioner of Education.

In connection with school work, it is suggested that the children should
write compositions on the subject of kindness to animals and to human
beings. With wise help from the teachers, much good may result from this
exercise, and it will aid in keeping up the interest.

Good pictures of animals and ﬂowers should be hung on the walls of
school rooms. Those representing some kind action, such as giving food
and water to hungry and thirsty animals, are especially suitable.

In order that Bands of Mercy may remain active after they are formed,
some one whose heart is in the work should help and encourage the teachers,
by Visiting the schools from time to time. Humane literature might also be
glven.

Humane Education, as a discipline, is one of the most valuable subjects.
It develops observation, consideration, kindness and self-control and makes
pupils more thoughtful of each other.

It was the effect of humane education that made it possible for the little
Quaker colony in Pennsylvania to live seventy years among the savages with
no other protection than a few constables.

 

BANDS OF MERCY IN SUNDAY SCHOOLS.

In Sunday Schools, experience has shown that a very good way is to have
the Band of Mercy excercises on one Sunday of every month or certainly once
each quarter. In one Sunday School in Philadelphia, it was successfully done
for years, as follows: The school was opened, and the lesson for the day
taught for about three quarters of an hour; then all the school,——infant, inter-
mediate, and Bible classes—were brought together in one room, the minister
presiding; the pledge was repeated; a Band of Mercy hymn was sung; a




‘ short address was given; anecdotes told; another hymn was sung; prayer was
then offered, and the school was dismissed. Any Sunday School can do as
much as this.

BANDS OF MERCY IN THE LO‘YAL TEMPERANCE LEGION.

Experience has shown that when this work is a feature in the Loyal
Temperance Legion, it is best to devote the time Of an entir( meeting to it
occasionally, rather than to make it a part of every meeting. Every second
or third meeting can be a Band of Mercy meeting. Mr. Angell’s order of
exercises can be followed. Every Union should have a Loyal Temperance
Legion, and every Loyal Temperance Legion should, without fail, include the
Band of Mercy.

JUNIOR CHRISTIAN ENDEAVOR AND EPWORTH LEAC UE
BANDS OF MERCY.

These Bands are constantly being formed. Monthly or bi-monthly special
meetings are held, with appropriate songs, readings, recitations, and a lesson
is given by the Superintendent. Special helps and calendars are prepared
for these Bands from time to time, which may be obtained by addressing Miss
Elizabeth W. Olney, 346 Pine Street, Providence, R. I., enclosing postage.

It is believed that many Junior Societies interested in Band Of Mercy
work, and meeting all the simple requirements necessary to be enrolled as
members of the National Society have failed to report when they have 30 or
more signatures to the pledge. It is not necessary to send the list of names.
All Junior Bands of Mercy should be reported to Miss Olney. In Societies
numbering less than thirty members, parents and other friends interested in
the Object of the Society may become members by signing the pledge.

INDEPENDENT BANDS OF MERCY.

Apart from schools, any intelligent boy or girl can form a Band of Mercy
without cost. Nothing is required to be a member but to sign the pledge or
authorize it to be signed.

The Band can be composed entirely of children, or of children and Older
persons.

To organize a Band of Mercy as an independent society, the most direct
and successful method, is to go in person to the house of each child you would
like to have join, and give your invitation to the ﬁrst meeting. AS most chil-
dren are interested in animals, you will have little difﬁculty in getting them to
join a society which is to tell them something about animals. When the time
for the meeting arrives, have ready an address of about ﬁve minutes’ length,
containing some bright suitable anecdote. Also some pledge cards, Band of
Mercy song books, (“ Songs of Happy Life,” see list of publications), and if
you can, a blackboard on which to write the pledge, thus having it before the
children’s eyes during the meeting. If possible, have also some copies of
Our Dumé Animals and leaﬂets for the children to take home.

Begin the meeting by singing, then give your address to the children. The
next thing in order should be the pledge. After directing the children’s
attention to it on the blackboard, with a few remarks, let all who are willing
come to the table in order, and sign pledge cards, which they are to take home.

There should be a President and Secretary chosen, also a name for the
Band.

As SOON AS THE BAND NUMBERS THIRTY MEMBERS, REPORT SHOULD BE
MADE to Mr. Geo. T. Angell, President of the AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION
SOCIETY, 19 Milk Street, Boston, Mass, giving the name of the Band and the
name and address of the President.

Mr. Angell Offers to send, for one year, to Bands of Mercy of that Size
that are formed anywhere, whether in schools or by individuals, a copy of
“Our Dumb Animals,” a monthly paper full Of interesting stories and pictures;
also a variety of leaﬂets, and a badge. Mr. Angell will send to any one,
without charge, a copy of “ Bands of Mercy Information.” '

 

 

 

 

 




A GOOD ORDER OF EXERCISES FOR BANDS OF MERCY MEETINGS-

I. Sing Band of Mercy Song and repeat
pledge together.

2. Remarks by President. and reading of
report of last meeting by Secretary.

3. Readings, recitations, “memory gems,”
and anecdotes of good and noble sayings
and also of kind acts performed to help both
human and dumb creatures.

4. Sing Band of Mercy song.

 

A brief address.

6. Enrollment of new members.

7. Sing Band of Mercy song.

The children’should be encgu‘laggl to tell:
what they have seen otheﬁ? grggh'eg than.
what they have, done theﬁisﬁesﬁﬁyd'éhey

stave?
4.

should not be led to think ttle

u

kind act that they have pqrfbrmediﬁvfj sarves
to be mentioned. “‘4, \,,.‘.§;;;‘a’

"

(was‘

 

PUBLICATIONS, ETC. 8

From the ofﬁce of Mr. George T. Angel], valuable leaﬂﬁiawm gargyﬁiiewbtahﬁd,
among others, the interesting story of a horse, called BLACK BEAU ,B‘y A1®28eyvell,,,which
has been translated into many different languages.
book have been sold. Price, paper bound, 10 cents, postage paid.

“ Our Gold Mine at Hollyhurst,” price, paper bound, 10 cents, postage paid.

“ Twelve Lessons on Kindness to Animals,” price 2 cents per copy.

AN ASSORTMENT OF LEAFLETS AND PAMPHLETS suitable for use in schools and for'
distribution elsewhere, including some with stories of cats, dogs, etc., can be obtained from
the HUMANE EDUCATION COMMITTEE, 29 Exe/zange Streez’, Providence, R. Z. Price 25.
cents in stamps for assortment of leaﬂets, postage paid.

On receipt of a one cent stamp, a copy of the Band of Mercy leaﬂet and also a price-
list will be forwarded.

At the same address may also be obtained the following:

SONGS OF HAPPY LIFE—a collection of songs, many of them with original music
by eminent modern composers. This book inculcates a love Of nature and kindness to-
all living creatures. Many of the songs are suitable for Bird Day and A \ hor Day exercises.
It contains besides the music an outline of Band of Mercy Entertainment, selections for"
readings, recitations, memory gems, etc., and will be found very useful for school work, as
well as suitable for Bands Of MeICy. Price 38 cents, postage paid.

VOICES FOR THE SPEECHLESS, a collection of poems from standard authors, suitable
for recitations, etc. Price 40 cents, postage paid.

EXTERMINATION OF BIRDS. Price 10 cents.

ANIMALS’ RIGHTS, by H. S. Salt, suitable for teachers for reference, but not adapted
to the use of children. Price 40 cents, postage paid.

AIMS AND OBJECTS OF THE TORONTO HUMANE SOCIETY, published by the Toronto-
This book contains.

Humane Society, 103 Bay Street, Toronto, Canada. Price 25 cents.
many interesting selections and is suitable for the use of teachers.

BANDS OF MERCY IN RHODE ISLAND.

 

Anyone interested in the subject is cordially invited to call at the Ofﬁce-

of the Rhode Island Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, (room.
2 5,) 29 Exe/zange Street, Providence, 1?. 1., and examine the humane literature.

Some Of the publications are for free distribution, the cost of others is.

very small.
There is a LOAN LIBRARY at the Ofﬁce and interesting books on humane-
topics, relating to animals, etc., will be loaned to teachers on application.
Samples of inexpensive pictures, suitable for school rooms, may be seen.
there.

All persons interested in forming Bands Of Mercy are invited to corre—-

spond with Miss Elizabeth W. Olney, who will be at the Ofﬁce to meet teach-
ers by appointment.

AS soon as a Band has six members, it Should report the name Of the

Band, and the name and address of its President to Miss Olney, at above
address.
bOOk, Black Beauty, and an assortment of leaﬂets.

Badges for the Rhode Island Band of mercy can be Obtained at the-

Ofﬁce. They are of German Silver, made in the form of stars, with the words
“Band Of Mercy, R. L,” engraved upon them.

each. It is not, however, necessary to have any badges. Just as good and

useful a Band of Mercy can be formed without them, and we would rather

encourage the children to spend money for literature, than for badges.
As soon as a R. I. Band numbers thirty members, it may share in all the
advantages offered by Mr. George T. Angel], and Should report to MISS Olney,.
This leaﬂet can be obtained of the HUMANE EDUCATION COMMITTEE, No. an Exchange Street, Room 25

(Elevator 27 Exchange Street), Providence, R. 1. Price 10 cents for twenty copies, or 40 cents per hundred,
postage paid.

5-,. \ ‘
,.,.

Several hundredtDyaygl cppies of wig???

The Band will then receive, free Of cost, a copy of the interesting~

These badges cost ﬁve cents.

x...)

 




