a

3i ‘ E I -. 5" _,

MONDAY, JANUARY 5, 1987

q I)

WR. Poage, 87; Texan

 

r___

 

W. R. Poage, who represented cen--
tral Texas’s 11th Congressional Dis-
trict in for 42 years until retiring in
1978, died. Saturday of heart failure
after emergency surgery at Scott and
White Memorial Hospital in Temple,
Tex. He was 87 years old and a resident
and native of Waco. '

Representative Poage, a Democrat,
was first elected to Congress in 1936
after working a farm, practicing law
and spending 12 years in the State
Legislature in Austin. In Washington,
he sat on the House Agriculture Com-
mittee for 34 years, serving as its
chairman from 1967 until a new gener-
ation of Democrats in the House openly
rebelled against its rigid seniority sys-
tem toward the end of 1974.

As a junior member of the Agricul-
ture Committee, Mr. Poage had cham-
pioned the small farmer. He railed
against the farm policies of the Eisen-
hower Administration, which he held
responsible for forcing farmers off the
land instead of insuring their prosperi-

ty.
Forced to Make Compromises

. But the power of rural interests in
‘1 Congress was in a long, historic decline
2 that coincided with his tenure. His own
" political influence, derived from in-
; cumbency and his Southern power
.base, waned with the farm bloc and,
eVen as he held the chairmanship, he
was forced to make compromises with
urban Democrats.

Mr. Poage had looked askance at
Federal food stamps and sought to re-.
strict their use. He also was skeptiCal
of various other proposals to give food
assistance to the poor and, as late as
1968, disputed, the presence
in the rural South.

To preserve his influence, he became
more open to arguments from differing
farming interests and even courted
urban liberals by supporting a more
, generous approach to food stamps so
1‘ as to win passage of a farm bill he
i could live with in 1973.

‘ The revolt that gathered force

the
5 following year was fueled by first-term ‘
7 Democrats elected in the wake of, the .

Watergate scandals. Their first target
became Wilbur D. Mills of the Ways
1 and Means Committee, perhaps the
: most powerful chairman
who resigned under fire in December.

of hunger .

of them all, .

By then, Mr. ‘Poage’s role as the de-‘

__.L_
‘t\ g

' By WOLFGANG SAXON'

the second-ranking House member in
seniority. ' ..
C. After his return to Waco, he pursued
a lifelong avocation by writing books
on the history of central Texas and
McLennan County and the recollec-
tions of his boyhood.

He worked largely out of the W. R.
Poage Legislative Library Center at
Baylor University, his alma mater. The
center for advanced studies and re-
search was built with private funds and
formed another of his principal inter-
es s.

A nursing supervisor at the Waco
hospital said yesterday that Mr. Poage
had suffered a heart attack Dec. 10
while driving in Waco. His car mounted
a divider and struck a tree.

Mr. Poage was hospitalized until
Dec. 20, was readmitted last Monday
for intensive tests and underwent the.
emergency surgery Friday, the super-
visor, Betty White, said.

Spent His Youth on a Cow Ranch

Headed Agriculture Panel

Associated Press,1975

W. R. Poage

 

William Robert (Bob) Poage was
born Dec. 28, 1899, in Waco but spent

the family ran in western Texas. He at-
tended Waco High School and served a
year in the Navy as an apprentice sea-
man in 1918 before enroling at Baylor.
University, where he honed his oratory
as a member of the debating team.
He graduated in 1921 and worked as
an undergraduate instructor in geology
while earning his law degree at _' the
Baylor law school. He was admitted to

 

fender of the small farmer had become
overshadowed by his
sugar quotas and subsidies to corpo-
rate cotton growers. '
In a stunning upset, in January 1975,
Mr. Poage was deposed from his cum-
- mittee ' chairmanship along with two
' other long-term Southern strongmen:
Wright Patman, a fellow Texan, from
the Banking and Currency Committee,
and F. Edward Hébert of Louisiana,
from the Armed Services Committee.
Mr. Poage, who continued as deputy
chairman of the Agriculture Commit
tee, underwent an operation in 1977
then announced that he would not ru

 

 

 

>n~—.——

for another term. At the time he Y3}.

defense of strict}

V

part of his early youth on a cow ranch i-

 

the Texas bar in 1924 "and practiced in
Waco until 1935.
Mr. Poage served four years in the

' Texas House of Representatives, 1924-

28, and in the state Senate from 1930

“until his election to Congress.

A widower, he is survived by a broth.-
er, Scott A. Poage of Waco; a nephew,
Scott T. Poage, also of Waco, and a
niece, April Poage Woolsey of Austin.

A funeral service is to be held at 2 :30
PM. tomorrow at the First Presbyte-
rian Church in Waco.

W

 




govember 24, 1986

ean. e. e. eoage

Baylor anivereity Cengreeeionel Collection
W. R. Peege Legislative Library Center

CSB 421

Race, ﬁexee 76793

ﬂeet ﬁsh:

It wee e gleeeure t0 have yeur letter of October 8th. In
fact, I likee it e0 much that I read it to the assembled
grow? an the top floor of the Hart Senate Office Builﬂing
while we were waiting for Bob Dole to eygear (he was éelayeé
on the Senate floor in the last~minute rush). Everyone
enjoyed year commente.

I wonder if we eheulﬁ be eenﬂing metezials to the W. R. Poage
Legislative Library Center? we just attended the open house
at the metionel Agricultural Library which is establishing an
animal welfare information center in eccerdence with the new
eeenﬁmeete t9 the law you get passed 20 years ego. Let me
knew if you eonlé like to have us eend more information on
thie, fer it seems to me it would be highly approyriete.

Encloeeﬁ ie the~moet recently updateﬂ leaflet giving the
namee of the Albert Schweitzer eedelllete.

with kineeet regerﬁe,

Sincerely,

Christine Stevens
President

C321h

Encloeure

 




BAYLOR UNIVERSITY
CONGRESSIONAL COLLECTION

W. R. Poage Legislative Library Center ‘
CSB 421 o Waco, Texas 76798 0 (817] 755-3540

October 8, 1986

Mrs. Roger Stevens
1686 34th Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20007

Dear Mrs. Stevens:

It was thoughtful of you to send me an invitation to the presentation
of the Schweitzer Award for 1986 to Senator Dole. While not of the same
political party, Bob and I have been friends since he first came to Con-
gress and served on the Agriculture Committee of the House. I admire him
and his forthright manner. I wish he were a Democrat.

Of course, I cannot be present next week, but my best wishes will be

with you, with Senator Dole, and with the work of the Animal Welfare In-
stitute.

Sincerely,

 




 
 

 

NORTH CENTRAL OHIO NATURE PRESERVATION LEAGUE

NEWSLETTER P. 0. Box 1523
Winter — 1986 «F7 Mansfield, Ohio 44901

 

     
 

 

   

 

   
 
  

Dear Friends,

  

To all of you who have renewed your membership, we thank you.

 
 

We greatly appreciate your dedication and continued support. To the
rest of you, please do consider this as a gentle reminder that dues
are due!

    
   
  

ANIMAL CONTROL COMMITTEE REPORT

 

  

Upon the death of Mr. Gouge, we wrote to Commissioner Edward Olson
telling him of our interest in hiring a competent, qualified dog

warden. We suggested that the Commissioners appoint a search committee
to find such a person. Copies of the letter were sent to Terry Mapes

and Bob May at the News-Journal. We requested an editorial and the
paper was good enough to comply with our wish. Now, we await a response.
This is a perfect time for everyone to re—evaluate the existing

program and to make much needed changes. We hope the Commissioners

will be willing to cooperate.

        
      
     
        
   
  
   
 
  
   
    
  
 
 
 
   
 
  
 
 
     
    
 
 

WAYS AND MEANS COMMITTEE UPDATE

 

We thank all of you who supported our recent fundraising efforts through
your purchases of Benson's Fruit Cakes and Pecan Clusters. We are
pleased with a nice profit. (Anyone wishing a complete financial

report on the project, please call the Chairman at 756—5026.)

Also, NPL would like to acknowledge two memorial gifts received in
recent months from a dedicated member. They will certainly further
our work in the animal welfare rights movement. We encourage others
to consider such a gift when the appropriate occasion arises.

J.W.

LETTER WRITING TIME

 

l. Re: Non—animal alternatives. Congress has directed the Environmental
Protection Agency to spend $16 million for the development on non-
animal alternatives for use in toxicity tests. This directive
represents an unparalleled breakthrough for millions of animals
used in product-safety testing. It is essential to put pressure
on the EPA to ensure that it carries through as instructed by
Congress. Write: The Honorable Lee M. Thomas, EPA, Room W1200,
401 M Street, SW, Washington, D.C. 20460. Tell him that you expect
the EPA to carry out the wishes of Congress in actively seeking
non-animal alternatives for use in lab toxicity tests.

2. Re: Walruses. There is a crisis on the horizon for these animals
because the Marine Mammal Protection Act is not being adequately
enforced by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service. Natives are
permitted to kill the walrus for subsistence and in a "waste-free"
manner. They are, however, killing for the ivory and killing in
inhumane ways. The FWS does not even monitor the slaughter!

Write: Mr. Frank Dunkle, U.S. Fish & Wildlife Service, Room 3256:

U.S. Dept. of the Interior, Washington, D.C. 20240. Tell—ﬁlm

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

        
      

 

     




— Page Two —

 

LETTER WRITING TIME, Cont'd.

 

you want officials to enforce provisions of the MMPA that prohibit
the wasteful kill of walruses, that require full utilization, and
that restrict all killing to that which is truly needed for native
subsistence.

 

 

 

 

Re: Dogs in Hunting. While vacationing in Hawaii, TV's Bob Barker
came upon a dog whose entire side had been torn off and was other—
wise mutilated. He learned that owners use dogs in hunting wild
pigs. Incredibly, Mr. Barker could not enlist the help of the

local (so—called) humane society to lobby for protective legislation.
The Mayor of Kauai, a former pig hunter, would not be supportive,
either. Because of excellent media coverage, however, a campaign

is now underway to ban the use of dogs in dangerous sports and

for use in research, as food and in folk medicine. Write letters

of support for such legislation and send to: International Society
for Animal Rights, 42l South State Street, Clark's Summit, Pa. 18411.
This group will distribute our letters to the appropriate legislators.

 

 

 

 

 

As most of you know, we sent out an Action Alert concerning the soon
to be proposed dove kill in Ohio. We asked then and we ask you now
(if you haven't already done so) to write The Honorable Frank Sawyer
(or The Honorable L. Eugene Byers, if you are in his district) and
The Honorable Richard Schafrath. Tell each one that you pppose the
kill and ask that he vote against it. IN ADDITION, WE ARE NOW ASKING
YOU TO ALSO WRITE The Honorable Vernal Riffe (tell him you oppose

the killing and are displeased that the whole subject is being brought

up at this time when Ohio is facing so many important issues — especially
since a similar bill was defeated fairly just five years ago) and

The Honorable Richard Celeste (ask him to veto any such legislation
should it come to his desk, explaining that you oppose it. The

address for all is: The State House, Columbus, Ohio 43215. (As you
know, Messrs. Sawyer, Byers and Riffe are Representatives, Mister
Schafrath is our Senator, and Mr. Celeste is the Governor.)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

REMEMBER
EVERY PET SHOULD HAVE A PERSON, BUT EVERY PERSON DOES NOT NEED A PET.

THERE'S MORE THAN ONE WAY

 

This will complete the list of ways you can help the animals — the
last in the three part series. 1. As a television viewer, keep the
addresses of the three television networks and our PBS station handy.
If a show explores an animal welfare/environmental issue favorably,
write and thank them. Object if you see something inhumane. Object
if the rodeo is glorified or if you see other objectionable "sports”.
Contact the sponsors of offensive shows. 2. As a traveler, let the
chambers of commerce and/or tourism boards know that you will not
vacation in places where there are roadside zoos or in countries that
allow bullfighting or seal and whale hunting.

We must speak up and speak out. Being an animal activist is not only
a full—time job, but a way of life!

 




- Page Three —

 

THERE HE GOES AGAIN!

 

The following is a letter received in Pennsylvania and dated July 3Q, 1986:

”I am pleased to send greetings to everyone at the
general meeting of the PA Trappers' Association. For
almost half a century, and those who blazed the trail
for you have striven to conserve one of our nation's most
historic resources, the fur-bearing animal. You have
encouraged sportsmanlike and ethical conduct, and have

‘helped make hunting the constructive and safe sport it
should be. God bless you."

Signed, Ronald Reagon.
REMEMBER
MOST DRUG PUSHERS DON'T WORK CITY STREETS, THEY OPERATE FACTORY FARMS!

A PET POEM

 

There once was a cat in Milano
Who had a great gift for piano
She'd produce sounds to please
Running over the keys

Meowing away in soprano.

VEAL COURDON BLEU - THE RECIPE

 

First, take a baby calf from his Mother. Place him in a stall 5' x 2',
making sure he cannot move. (Even stretching his leg could ruin the
flavor.) Feed him milky gruel 2—3 times a day. Season with anti—
biotics and hormones to taste. After 15 weeks, remove calf from stall,
kill him and eat him.

FURRIERS' CAMPAIGN

 

Furriers, feeling the effects of animal activists' campaigns, have
devised a new public relations program to both distort the public's
perception of fur and boost sales. "Fur is For Life: An Industry

in Harmony with Nature," as the new program is ludicrously called, has
been organized to represent retail furriers who are experiencing
vandalism and terrorism by anti-fur activists. The nationwide media
campaign will focus on this ”terrorism" while trying to promote the
idea that fur coats and nature are harmonious.

While claims of terrorism are exaggerated, the industry's effort
emphasizes the fact that activists must keep protests orderly and
tasteful. As for the real reasons behind this public relations ploy:
the truth is beginning to show the fur industry for what it really is.

Let's turn the industry's own campaign on itself. Whenever you see an
ad or article suggesting that "Fur Is For Life," write a letter to

the editor of the publication pointing out that, in reality, "fur is
for death" - the brutal slaughter of some 17 million furbearing animals
each year. Explain that from 3 to 60 skins are required for each coat.
Inform readers that the fur industry is NOT in harmony with nature
unless harmony means the cruel and barbaric destruction of life for

 




- Page Four -

 

FURRIERS' CAMPAIGN, Cont'd.

 

THE SAKE OF HUMAN VANITY.

(Information for the above article came from The HSUS Animal Activist
Alert, Volume IV, Issue 4.)

REMEMBER
FUR: THE ULTIMATE SADIST SYMBOL.

2008 = ZERO

 

Zoos clearly have a long way to go before they can claim they are
really "conserving" what animals we have. One of the best exhibits in
any zoo was a large mirror behind bars. The caption read: "Home
sapiens, a dangerous, predatorial tool—and—weapon—making primate.
Status: endangered by its own doing".

Zoos are not so much a necessary evil as they are a tragic mirror of
an evil for which we may yet atone ourselves. Since it is estimated
at the present rate of habitat destruction that some 500,000 to

2 million plant and animal species will be extinct by the year 2000,
captive breeding in zoos is not the answer. It is impractical because
it is too costly. Habitat protection is the only solution, and all
nations and people must be prepared to make the necessary adjustments
and sacrifices if the health and vitality of the earth is to be
preserved and not perverted into a ravaged industrialized and poisoned
wasteland. In this context, all the zoo professionals, Veterinarians
and biologists striving to improve zoo animals' environments and gene
pools are engaged in a futile effort that hides the real issues and
distracts efforts toward the most favorable goal: conserving animals
where they belong, in the wild.

(Information for the above article came from a piece by Michael W. Fox,
which appeared in The Animals' Agenda, June, 1986.)

REMEMBER
THE MAJORITY OF THE ZOOS IN THE WORLD ACHIEVE NOTHING.

DID YOU KNOW?

 

1. That movie/TV star, Charlton Heston, opposes humanitarians on the
of animals in the laboratories? He thinks it's a great idea.

2. That a NJ Judge handed down a decision that upholds an '84 law
banning the steel—jaw trap in that state? You may remember that the
law was passed after nearly two decades of legislative battles but
was seriously threatened when NJ trappers took the state to court-
The animals won!

3. That Maryland just adopted a pound seizure law?

4. That even though he said he would veto it, the President signed
the Superfund Bill, which will allow continued cleanups of toxic wastes?

5. That you should keep feeding the birds in the early spring?
It is a critical time for them, because natural foods are gone and new
plants and insects are not yet available. Stop feeding in the late spring.

 




  

- Page FiVe -

 

 
  
 
   
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
    
   
 
   
   
   
  
 
 
  
 
  
   
  
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
  
   
 

DID YOU KNOW?, Cont'd.

 

6. That no homeowner can buy insurance protection against the costs
of a nuclear accident? If the Three Mile Island accident had been as
serious as the one at Chernobyl, it is estimated that property damage
alone would have amounted to $17 billion.

7. That Senator Robert Dole received the "Schweitzer Medal" of the
Animal Welfare Institute? The Senator has been responsible for three
major animal welfare legislative achievements on the federal level.

8. That humanitarians are boycotting products made by Gillette until
it stops cruel product testing on animals? A former lab technician
at the company released a diary she kept on the terrible animal abuse
that goes on at that company. Let's join the activists!

9. That the U.S. Supreme Court has ruled that the Government may
protect bald & golden eagles from American Indians who claim the right
to hunt them under treaty?

10. That an eminent rabbi has ruled that Jewish religious law bars
Jews from attending bullfights?

11. That a Gallup Poll revealed that in one year the number of
vegetarians increased by 30% to approximately 1.5 million and that more
than 18 million people are eating less red meat?

12. That when the Duchess of Windsor died last April, she left a
substantial bequest to the Pasteur Institute, stipulating that none
of the funds be used for vivisection by the research center? Dandy
Duchess, what?

REMEMBER

IF WE LARN TO BE COMPASSIONATE TOWARDS OTHER FORMS OF LIFE, WE MAY
LEARN TO BECOME COMPASSIONATE TOWARDS OUR OWN SPECIES. WE MAY BECOME
HUMANE - AT LONG LAST.

SOME FINAL QUESTIONS

 

Have I done all that I can to eliminate animal cruelties? What is my
lifestyle? What are my buying habits? Are they humane? To what extent
am I willing to go to be humane? We must each decide for ourselves —

no one will decide for us. How humane is M! lifestyle?

 

TWO FINAL THOUGHTS

 

"It is a long way, as I see it, before humans will cease to exploit,
manipulate, and control others, be they wild or domestic animals,
people, or pristine wildnerness and ocean. The weakness of humanity
is our blindness, a cultural blind spot which some call ignorance, in
which a selfish and immature ego claims the world as ours and prevents
us from seeing ourselves as a part of the world. Kinship with all
life is a biological (evolutionary) fact, but our culture, our ways

of doing, perceiving, and relating blind us to this reality."

   

—— Michael W. Fox from his book, "Returning to Eden"

  




— Page Six -

 

TWO FINAL THOUGHTS, Cont'd.

 

"Success has given the animal rights movement a new and unfamiliar
respectability; no longer do many movement goals seem radical to the
general public.

It is no longer a cause that attracts only radicals and crackpots.
It is, as more and more people are realizing, a sign of a humane and
moral seriousness."

-— James Rachels
The Social and Health Review

HAPPY NEW YEAR TO YOU ALL!!!

 

IMPORTANT....ATTN: LAST MINUTE CHANGE

 

When writing to Celeste about the morning dove, begin the letter,

"Dear Governor", but SEND IT TO THE HONORABLE EUGENE BRANSTOOL,

same address. The Senator wants to present the letters to the Governor
himself.

 




Report at Presentation of Schweitzer Medal to Senator Dole

Christine Stevens
President, Animal Welfare Institute

October 14, 1986

Welcome, friends and members of the Animal Welfare Institute.
This is the 27th presentation of the Albert Schweitzer Medal
since Dr. Schweitzer gave his permission to strike the medal
in his name. "I would never have believed," he wrote, "that
my philosophy, which incorporates in our ethics a
compassionate attitude toward all creatures, would be noted
and recognized in my lifetime. I knew this truth would
impose itself one day on human thought , but it is the great
and moving surprise of my life that I should still be able to

witness this progress of ethics."

Later when we were struggling to obtain legislation such as
the Improved Standards for Laboratory Animals finally
achieved by Senator Dole whom we honor today, Dr. Schweitzer
wrote, "The ethic of Reverence for Life obliges us to be
watchful always to treat animals with compassion, and all the
more so when it concerns those creatures that serve medical
research. If you pass such a law in the United States, it

will have important meaning for the world. The law will then

gain recognition in other nations, too."

 




 

 

Dr. Dallas Pratt, author of Alternatives to gain in

Expgiimgan QD Animals, is with us today, and he will present
the medal to Senator Dole. Before I introduce Dr. Pratt, who
is himself a Schweitzer Medalist, I would like to summarize

briefly the work of the Animal Welfare Institute during the

past year.

The fifteenth year of the international battle to save the
whales began auspiciously with the Court of Appeals upholding
the District Court ruling by Judge Richey in favor of whale
protection. Both Courts ruled that the Packwood-Magnuson
amendment must be invoked against Japan -- as it was against
Russia —- for killing whales in defiance of decisions of the
International Whaling Commission. William Rogers of Arnold
and Porter represented nine non-profit organizations
including AWI in the lawsuit to require the Secretary of
Commerce and Secretary of State to enforce U.S. law which
calls for cancellation of fishing permits when a country
"diminishes the effectiveness" of the International Whaling
Commission. Arnold and Porter undertook this extensive and
demanding action pro bong, and humanitarians owe them a large
debt of gratitude. It was a shock when the U.S. government,
in the company of the Japan Whaling Association, took the

case to the Supreme court and obtained a 5 to 4 reversal of

the lower court decisions.




 

Justice Marshall, who wrote the minority Opinion noted that,
"The Secretary would rewrite the law...the Secretary has
settled for continued violations until 1988, and in 1988 all
that Japan has promised to do is to withdraw its formal
objection to the IWC moratorium; I see no indication that
Japan has pledged to cease commercial whaling by 1988'; ...

or to ‘dismantle its commercial whaling industry.'"

The correctness of this view has already been confirmed by
Japan's renaming of commercial whaling by the titles of
"investigative whaling" and "subsistence whaling" whichever
comes in handiest as an explanation for the continued killing
of whales and the selling of their products. They also plan
to buy the products of Iceland's "scientific whaling" in
defiance of the Convention on International Trade of
Endangered Species of Fauna and Flora. So it's business as
usual despite heroic efforts by U.S. Senators to give the
great whales the protection they desperately need. The

battle must and will continue.

As part of our educational work to improve the welfare of
farm animals, AWI has sponsored university lecture tours
featuring scientific authorities. Last year, Dr. Klaus
Vestergaard of the Royal Veterinary and Agricultural

University in Copenhagen was invited to speak at the

-3...

 

 

 




 

 

Universities of Maryland, Minnesota, California, Nebraska,

West Virginia, Texas A&M, Purdue and Kansas State, as well as
the U.S. Department of Agriculture. An expert bird watcher,
Vestergaard's trained scrutiny of the normal behavior of

laying hens has succeeded in establishing some of their basic

needs: for exampﬂe, the Opportunity for frequent dust baths.

In an elegantly simple experiment, recorded on film, he shows
a flock of neat white hens being deprived for a single day of
the litter in which they customarily dust bathe. As they
return, the response of the hens is unanimous as they
enthusiastically nestle into the litter, fluffing out their
feathers and throwing it all over themselves. Such redoubled
activity after deprivation is a recognized method of

measuring behavioral needs.

A previous AWI lecturer, Dr. Alex Stolba, established his
practical invention, the Pig Family Pen, at the current
University of Zurich exhibition which continues through the
autumn. It is recommended viewing for anyone traveling to

Switzerland in the next two months.

An important achievement this year was recognition of
painless freeze branding for identifying dairy cows and
calves in place of painful hot iron branding. AWI worked for

-4—




many years with USDA's Dr. Keith Farrell, now regrettably
deceased, who invented freeze branding. He freeze branded
himself to assure the humaneness of the method, and reported
nothing more unpdeasant than a tingling sensation. Judge
Telesca's ruling, in which he cited AWI's book Animals and
Their Legal,ﬁﬁghts, is the first expression by a federal
judge of the public policy of the United States of America

to avoid unnecessary cruelty to animals.

Yet, except for the states of New Jersey, Rhode Island,
Florida and Massachusetts. The steel jaw leghold trap
continues with little or no restriction, to inflict the most
intense pain and fear on furbearing animals and others,
including pets and hunting dogs, often maimed in these
archaic, barbaric devices. The American public is
overwhelmingly in favor of a ban, and the Woodstream
Corporation's attempt to undermine the New Jersey law by
trying to obtain an exemption for its so-called "soft catch"
trap, on whose steel jaws a bit of very hard composition has
been screwed, has just been denied by Judge George Farrell.
On October sixth, he issued a ruling upholding both the
letter and Spirit of the New Jersey law which prohibits sale
and use of these traps. Many less cruel alternatives are
available. Sixty-three countries have banned steel jaw

traps. There is no excuse for their use in our country.

-5-

 




 

 

A twenty foot tall inflatable beaver covered with fake fur

was created for AWI by John Perry, and Betsy Beaver, as she
is known, has been bringing the message on the unnecessary

cruelty of steel jaw traps to Americans coast—to—coast.

AWI's book, Beyond the Laboratory Door, published just after
passage of the Dole-Brown amendments to the federal Animal
Welfare Act, was our main publication of the year. We owe a
debt to the veterinary inspectors of the US Department of
Agriculture, quotations from whose reports on inspections of
laboratories make up the first part of the book. Their
conscientious work means a great deal in preventing needless
suffering of laboratory animals. Our study of USDA reports
obtained under the Freedom of Information Act was made
possible by a generous grant. We were frankly appalled at
the incontrovertible evidence of widespread failure even of
major universities to live up to the minimum standards set by
the Secretary of Agriculture. Less than one-fifth of the 214
institutions whose USDA, and in some cases NIH, reports were

examined by Louise Wright and Cathy Liss were found to be in

regular compliance with the law.

Oftentimes, despite the shortage of funds, USDA veterinarians

had to go back repeotedly to ensure that deficiencies, of a
-6...




kind which ought never to have occurred at all, were
corrected. Fortunately, Congress has increased the
apprOpriation to enforce the Act for 1987, including $750,000
to establish an information service at the National
Agricultural Library in c00peration with the National Library
of Medicine as provided by the Dole-Brown amendments. The
praiseworthy purpose: to avoid unintended duplication of
experiments and tests and make information on alternatives

to laboratory animals more readily available. The annual
reports you have in hand give the other major provisions of

the legislation which goes into effect in December.

I would now like to express appreciation to two scientific
groups who recognized the value of the Improved Standards for
Laboratory Animals amendments and who were not afraid to
approve them in the form so conscientiously worked out by
Senator Dole and Congressman George E. Brown, Jr. and their
dedicated staffers, Mark Scanlan and Sara Rasmussen, after
literally years of consultation and rewriting. The American
Physiological Society, largest users of animals for research,
and the Association of Professors of Medicine, leaders in
seeing that research findings actually help patients, deserve
credit both for helping laboratory animals and, thereby,

helping to improve scientific research.

...'7...

 




There is not time to give the names of all the many co-
sponsors of this humane legislation, but support from Tom
Foley, House Majority Whip, and Kika de la Garza, Chairman of
the House Agriculture Committee in the Senate-House
conference cannot go unmentioned. Mr. Foley, himself a
Schweitzer Medalist, was responsible for House passage of the

1970 Animal Welfare Act amendments.

Now it is a pleasure to introduce Dallas Pratt, M.D. who has
done so much to encourage the replacement of laboratory
animals by alternative methods, the refinement of methods of
use where animals, at present, cannot be replaced, and the
reduction in numbers of animals used. A new book by Dr.
Pratt, to be published by Argus Archives which he heads, will
soon be out. Entitled, Animal Eilms for Humane Education, it
will be of great value to educators at all levels in
advancing humane education. Argus Archives has collected and
shown hundreds of films to audiences of animal advocates over
the years. The book is a distillation of its findings. We

look forward to its publication. A graduate of Yale

University and Columbia's College of Physicians and Surgeons,

Dr. Pratt was for many years Associate Psychiatrist at
Columbia University and St. Luke's Hospital, New York, and a
fellow of the American Psychiatric Association. Dr Pratt is
co—founder of the famous American Museum at Bath, for which

he collects Americana.
-8-

 




, THE
ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

QUARTERLY

WASHINGTON, DC. 20007

 

PO BOX 8650 WINTER 1985/86 VOL. 4 No. 4 .

Triumph for Dole — Brown laboratory animal bill

just two days before Christmas, the legislation to minimize pain and distress of experimental animals,
sponsored by Senate Majority Leader Robert Dole (R, KS) and Congressman George E. Brown ,_].r (D, CA),
became law when President Reagan signed the Farm Bill.

Senator Dole brought his bill to the Senate ﬂoor as an amendment to the Farm Bill on 25 October, and on
28 October, following intensive discussions and staff work, a modiﬁed version of 8.1233 was passed by
unanimous consent. The basic provisions remained unchanged. But some opponents were not satisﬁed
with the results of their negotiations which continued right up to the ﬁnal minutes of the conference be-
tween Senate and House of Representatives on this part of the Farm Bill. At 10: 45 p. m. 12 December the
conferees agreed on the ﬁnal version of the Improved Standards for Laboratory Animals Act. The Conference
Report, which passed the House 18 December and the Senate 19 December, is reprinted 1n full on pages 8
and 9. This 1s a signiﬁcant part of the legislative history indicating the mtent of Congress 1n passing the new
animal protective law.

For us in AWI the victory is especially sweet. Ever since our ﬁrst beginnings back m 1952 we have striven
for the enactment of a law giving proper protection to laboratory animals without impeding essential
research. The original law came into force 1n 1966. Amendments were passed 1n 1970 and 1976. But only
with the passing of this third Amendment has the law become truly rigorous. Our strivings will henceforth
be directed to seeing that 1t is everywhere honored and obeyed.

 

Minnesota boy loses toes in steel-jaw trap

Further proof, if proof were still needed, that the steel-jaw leghold trap is a
vicious menace not only to wildlife but also to human beings has been
provided by an appalling accident that has permanently blighted the life of
a 14-year-old boy from Minneapolis.

Last fall August Katzung and his
brother Eric were playing near the High-
way 12 railroad overpass by Penn
Avenue. August climbed the embank-
ment above the tracks. From there he
moved on down into a small hollow—
and put his right foot straight into a
steel-jaw trap. In his struggles to free
himself he fell down the cement-slabbed
embankment, ripping the trap from his
foot.

August says that a man with “long
white hair and a beard”. then carried
him to where he could be seen by
passersby. His screams were heard by
his brother who found him and ran
home to fetch his father. An ambulance
took the boy, now bleeding heavily, to
Hennepin County Medical Center. Both
themanand the trap had vanished from
the scene.

Three days later August had four toes
amputated; attempts to save them had
failed.

It is nearly a year now since HR 1809,
a bill to outlaw the steel-jaw trap nation-
wide, was introduced in Congress with
the support of more than 100 Represen-
tatives. Not until the bill becomes law
will calamitous mishaps of this kind
become a thing of the past. August was
playing in an area “protected” by a city
ordinance prohibiting the setting of
steel-jaw traps. But while interstate com-
merce in these traps is not forbidden
nationwide, evasion of local prohibi-
tions will remain absurdly—and crim-
inally—simple.

Details by courtesy of Friends of Animals and
Their Environment (FATE), Box 7283,
Minneapolis, MN 5540 7.

 




National Library of Medicine accords
recognltion to non-animal testing
by Dr. George J. Cosmides, Deputy Associate Director for Specialized Information

Services, National Library of Medicine

In this article George Cosmides explains
that the National Library of Medicine now
treats non-animal testing as a medical cat-
egory in its own right. For doctors, medi-
cal researchers and others who need to keep
abreast of what is going on in this impor-
tant field, it is essential to have all relevant
published material brought together
under one index heading. Dr. Cosmides
also gives details of the Library’s intention
to extend its coverage of non-animal test-
ing by including as a regular component
of Tax-Tips (its monthly publication) infor-
mation on latest developments.

As an information service to all who have an
interest in “animal testing alternatives, ”the
National Library of Medicine (NLM) is now
using this subject heading for appropriate
articles ﬁom journals indexed in Index
Medicus. The scope description for the
index terms, “animal testing alternatives, ”
published in Medical Subject Headings,
Annotated Alphabetic List, 1985, in-
cludes “procedures, such as tissue culture,
mathematical models, etc., when used or
advocated ﬁn use in place of the use of
animals in research or diagnostic laborator-
ies. ”

Indexers will use this subject heading only
for published articles which explicitly state
that the test, assay or method is proposed as a
substitute or alternative jbr procedures using
live, intact animals; or if the in vitro

procedure is a predominant objective of the
publication. Medical Sub'ect Headings
(MeSH) is the list of descriptors used by
NLMﬁrr indexing articles from over 3000 of
the world’s leading biomedical journals.
MeSH descriptors are words and terms
which characterize an article’s content.
Citations to the periodical literature of
medicine are published in the monthly Index
Medicus under a ‘ te MeSH terms.
Books and documents are cataloged by sub-
ject, using MeSH terms, and are listed under
these terms in the quarterly NLM publication,
Current Catalog. MeSH terms are also

used to catalog audiovisual materials; the ‘

resulting citations are then listed in the
Audiovisual Catalog. By coordinating
MeSH terms, citations may be retrieved on-
line ﬂom the computer to satisfy the informa-
tion needs of scientists, practitioners, and
educators. This online system is called
Medline.

Another prq'ect planned by NLM is an
alerting service ﬁir alternatives to animal
testing. Citations will be derivedﬁom Tox-
Tips (Toxicology Testing in Progress),
a monthly bulletin, Toxline, Medline,
and/or other databases. Toxline is the
NLM ’s extensive collection of computerized
bibliographic information covering the phar-
macological, biochemical, physiological, and
toxicological ﬂeas of drugs and other chemi-
cals. The primary purpose of this alerting

 

Implantation ofelectrodesintothebrainmayresult
inpurulentirgfectionatthesmgicalsite.Notepus
runningdown tldscat’sforehead.

2

eufeforee-Peter Hamilton

Beyond the Laboratory Door,
Animal Welfare Institute, 1985,
266 pages, 33 illustrations, $5.00.

Nicely coinciding with the passage of
the new laboratory animal bill, AWI has
just published (December 1985) a book
which documents massive noncompli-
ance with the Animal Welfare Aer in
major universities and corporate re-
search facilities across the country. Beyond
the laboratory Door reveals that abuse or
neglect of laboratory animals occurred
in no less than 82.796 of the 214 facilities
studied over the past four years.

Part one of the book examines infor-
mation on institutions which are not in
compliance with the Animal Welfare
Act. Part two contains photographs
illustrating the suffering undergone by
animals used in research. Part three is
a compilation of excerpts from the
scientiﬁc literature from 1978-1984.

service is to highlight information about
recent developments in toxicity testing em-
ploying in vitro methods. In vitro testing,
in this alerting service, will include alterna-
tives to the use of intact vertebrates in toxicity
testing and biomedical research. Inclusive in
this dq‘inition of scope are the use of inverte-
brates, microorganisms, in vitro techniques,
and mathematical models.

Tax-Tips results ﬁ'om a cooperative eﬂbrt
to prevent the duplication of toxicity testing
and epidemiology studies to determine toxic
risks of chemical substances and other agents.
It is sponsored by the Toxicology Information
Subcommittee of the DHHS Committee to
Coordinate Environmental and Related Pro-
grams. It is a product of the combined ﬂirts
of industrial, government, and academic
organizations reporting on the initiation of
testing projects and epidemiology studies.
Because the emphasis of this publication is to
provide a mechanism for the avoidance of
inadvertent duplication of expensive tests,
publication preference is given to long-term
studies, although other projects are reported.

The publication already provides an alert-
ing service for information about develop-
ments in “Methods of Testing Chemicals for
Biological Eﬂects. ” This section of Tox-
Tips, extracted from the recent literature, is
compiled by Dr. Williamina A. Himwich.

For inquiries and sample issues address the
Editor, Tax-Tips, National Library of Med-
icine.

NIH suspends
Columbia’s animal
research funds

In january of this year the National
Institutes of Health, for the ﬁrst time
ever, started making unannounced in-
spections of research facilities. As a
result, following complaints by private
citizens and deﬁciencies reported by
the USDA inspector in December,
federal funds for animal studies at
Columbia University on all verte-
brates above the level of rodent have
been suspended (the inspection was
on 28/24 January). This “cut-off"
amounts to several million dollars.

Columbia was cited for deﬁciencies
in four main areas;

0 Too few veterinarians.

e Inadequate housing of dogs in quar-
antrne.

e Inappropriate techniques for mini-
mizing health risks to laboratory
personnel.

0 Lack of cleanliness in areas where
animals recover from major sur-

serr-

 




Supreme Court
to decide
on whales

On 13 January the Supreme Court agreed to hear the government’s
appeal of the U.S. District court’s order that the Departments of State and
Commerce cut Japan’s ﬁshing allocations in US. waters because of
Japan’s refusal to adhere to the International Whaling Commission
decision for a moratorium on commercial whaling. The U.S. Court of
Appeals twice supported the District Court order, but the government
and theJapanese Whaling Association appealed to the Supreme Court.
Nine organizations, including the Animal Welfare Institute, are repre-
sented pro bono by the law ﬁrm Arnold and Porter. William Rogers, former
Under Secretary of State, will plead for the whales before the Supreme
Court. His request for expedited argument, because whales continue to
be killed pending a decision, was accepted by the court, and the case is
expected to be heard in April. Friends of whales await the outcome
eagerly.

 

Japan is still a big importer
of ivory—and most of it is illegal

DespiteJapan’s promise at the last CITES conference to cease trading in
protected wildlife,Japanese imports of raw ivory, most of it illicitly pro-
cured, show no signs of dramatic decline. In the ﬁrst half of 1985 Japan
imported 218 metric tons of ivory. This means that imports are running
at only slightly below the level of 1982, the year which heralded a sudden

 

surge in the tonnage of ivory entering Japan.

New regulations which came into
effect last April have eliminated the
use of country-of-origin certiﬁcates
for imports. A very large number of
these certiﬁcates were bogus. Now
only CITES export permits or equiva-
lent documentation may be used. Yet
analysis of CITES and Customs data
shows that some 80% of Japan’s ivory
imports during the ﬁrst six months of
1985 were probably illegal.

In April last and again in May
Japanese Customs accepted ship-

 

Analysis of CITES and Customs
data shows that some 80% of
Japan’s ivory imports during

the ﬁrst six months of 1985
were probably illegal.

 

ments of so-called Ugandan ivory,
although Uganda is no longer trading
in ivory. Then in June Customs al-
lowed in some four-and-a-half tons of
ivory from, allegedly, Rwanda, a coun-

whose entire elephant population
would hardly be able to muster such a
tonnage.

 

Last June Customs allowed in
some ﬁrur—and-a-half tons of
ivory ﬁom, allegedly, Rwanda,
a country whose entire elephant
population would hardly be able
to muster such a tonnage.

 

TRAFFIC (Japan) has been assid-
uous in uncovering these curiosities
and pointing them out to the authori-
ties. The government for its part has
not been unresponsive but it seems
that as fast as loopholes are plugged,
others emerge.

To its credit Japan has recently
refused entry to several shipments of
ivory, returning them to the last
staging post which is usually Dubai.
But since Dubai has now taken over
from Brussels as the chief “launderer”
of illegal ivory (despite the United
Arab Emirates being a member of
CITES), rejected shipments will, in all
probability, soon be winging their
way back to Japan brazenly kitted out
with brand new sets of spurious
documents. '

 

Brazil bans
whaling for
ﬁve years

Deeply moved, as he himself stated,
by thousands of letters from chil-
dren who wrote him asking for the
end of the whale slaughter, Jose
Sarney, President of Brazil, invited
800 children to attend a cere-
mony on 20 December in which
he signed a decree forbidding
whaling in Brazilian waters dur—
ing the next ﬁve years.

“In signing this decree,” Presi-
dent Sarney stated, “I associate
myself with a movement that ex-
presses the aspirations of the
majority of the international
community and Brazilian public
opinion.

“What God created, only God
has the right to make extinCt. This
happens with life; this happens
with man, this should be the way
to think about nature and ani-
mals,” he added, emphasizing the
need to ﬁght against extinction
through action and not just dis-
cussion.

The Presidential Act was fully
supported by the Inter-Ministry
Commission of Sea Resources,
chaired by the Minister of the
Navy, who expressed deep concern
about the possible continuation
of the minke whale slaughter.

After the ceremony President
Sarney met the council member
of the Brazilian Foundation for
the Conservation of Nature, Jose
Truda PalazzoJr., who gave him a
report on whaling in Brazil pro-
duced with the help of Nick Carter
(of the Environmental Investiga-
tion Agency), symbolizing the
support of all conservation organi—
zations for his decision. President
Sarney gave him a book in which
letters from children asking for
the prohibition of whaling were
published.

A bill forbidding capture, killing
or harassment of any cetacean in
Brazil has been introduced. by
Deputado Gastone Right. It is
about to be voted in the Federal
Senate. Those wishing to help
may write supporting this bill to:
HonorableJose Fragelli, President
of the Senate Federal- Brasilia,
DF 70160 Brazil.

 

 

 




THE 1985 MONITOR AWARDS

Nine honored for protecting animals

Last November former Attorney Gen-
eral William French Smith came to
Washington to present The Monitor
Awards for outstanding achievement in
wildlife protection and animal welfare.
In his welcoming address be emphasized
the growing public concern over these
issues—as did departmental officials
when introducing their staff members
who were being honored.

The Attorney General made presen-
tations to eight federal employees and
one citizen activist. The citations follow.

0 Don Schmidt, the case agent, and jeff
McPartlin, a concerned falconer who assisted
as a conﬁdential informant throughout
Operation Falcon, a three-year covert inves-
tigation into illegal activities involving birds
of prey. This investigation uncovered the
illegal commercialization of raptors, result-
ing in charges against subjects in 14 states, 4
Canadian provinces, and several countries
in Europe and the Middle East. Among the
violations cited were smuggling and illegally
taking birds from the wild; incorporating
such birds into raptor propagation facilities
and representing them as captive-bred; using
band manipulation to disguise illegally-
taken birds; making false statements on
records and reports; and selling or bartering
wild-caught birds. At the time of the take-
down, agents arrested more than 30 indi-
viduals and seized more than 100 live birds
of prey, including gyrfalcons, endangered
peregrine falcons, goshawks, Harris hawks
and prairie falcons. One outgrowth of this
investigation is the Interior Department’s
current review of regulations that apply to
the sport of falconry and raptor propa-
gation. At the present time, 55 people have
been convicted of violating federal wildlife
laws. Fines total $324,921. Follow-up investi-
gations are continuing and more charges are
expected.

0 ChristopherA. Nuechterlein came to the
Department ofjustice in 1982 after clerkship
with a federal district court, several years as a
local prosecutor and a stint with a private

 

law firm. He immediately established him-
self as an effective, aggressive prosecutor of
wildlife crimes.

In his three years with the Department’s
Wildlife and Marine Resources Section, Mr.
N uechterlein was responsible for dozens of
convictions in cases involving the illegal tak-
ing and sale of protected wildlife. He helped
to supervise several major undercover inves-
tigations which probed the pernicious inter-
state and international traffic in protected
raptors and big game animals. He gained
forfeiture of a large shipment (worth almost
8 I ,000,000 here) of exotic black palm cocka-
toos illegally exported from Indonesia. Most
praiseworthy was his role in the Operation
Falcon cases, in which he helped bring to
justice more than 40 individuals who had
unlawftu captured rare birds of prey or
participated in black market transactions.

0 Rick Leach, former Special Agent in
Charge, Branch of Special Operations, US.
Fish and Wildlife Service, for continuing to
develop, coordinate, and conduCt major
undercover investigations to combat the
illegal taking and commercialization of wild-
life. During the past year, the Branch, with
Agent Leach as leader, uncovered significant
traffic in birds of prey, trophy animals, and
striped bass. Evidence that agents gathered
has to date resulted in 125 successful prose-
cutions and ﬁnes amounting to more than
$550,000. jail time features the two strictest
sentences ever for violations of federal wild-
life protection laws. These sentences came
after juries in the cases of the two key ﬁgures
involved in killing trophy animals, guiding
illegal hunts, and selling wildlife parts, rejec-
ted allegations of entrapment and convicted
the men, thereby upholding the Govem-
ment’s use of covert operations, which,
though proven effective in documenting
Otherwise impenetrable activities, have been
the focus of recent criticism.

0 john Gavitt, Acting Special Agent in
Charge, Branch of Special Operations, who
was the case agent in Operation Trophy Kill,
a three-year undercover investigation into
the poaching and sale of domestic wildlife

g .

..,.
is

Former Attorney General William French Smith presents a Monitor Award to undercover agent while Law E anement
Division Chief Clark Bavin looks on. The ceremony (ooh place at the home of Henry and Renate Heymann.

4

such as bighom sheep, mountain goats, elk,
bear, mountain lions, and golden eagles,
and the illegal killing and smuggling into
this country of non-native species including
endangered spotted cats. Using the “cover”
of a tannery and taxidermy business, Agent
Gavitt gained the confidence of subjects
involved in poaching, particularly in the
area of Yellowstone National Park. Many of
the individuals involved in these activities
had extensive criminal records, including a
conviction for murder. One man vowed to
kill anyone who might be a “Fed” and
threatened indiscriminate killing of wildlife
if he got caught. The 10 and 15-year senten-
ces imposed on the two central characters
reﬂeCt the Court’s opinion of the seriousness
of the violations of the “career criminals.”

0 Steven Hamilton, the case agent for an
investigation into cheating in big-money
bass tournaments in Texas. Aeting on a tip
from a young participant, Agent Hamilton
began looking into what turned out to be a
well thought-out scheme whereby the ring-
leader, Elro Vernon McNeill, provided
trophy-sized black bass from Florida to be
entered into Texas tournaments in return
for a major portion of the prize money.
Scheme participants were so well prepared
that they took drugs such as valium and
qualude in order to pass polygraph tests that
are routinely administered after such tour-
narnents.

o In September 1982, Mr. Michael McCann,
Compliance Officer, with Veterinary Ser—
vices, US Department of Agriculture, learned
that a tiger owned by Gentle jungle, Inc.,
Burbank, California, had died from appar-
ent neglecr after failing to recover properly
from anesthesia. Gentle jungle was a major
supplier of trained animals for motion pic-
tures and the animal was one of four which
had been dyed black for an appearance in
The Beastmaster.

McCann obtained evidence from more
than 18 people who had knowledge of
mistreatment of animals by Gentlejungle. A
case was submitted alleging that between
june 1980 and March 1982 Gentle jungle
violated the Animal Welfare Act by neglect-
ing and mishandling animals in need of
veterinary care and by using cruel training
methods on animals appearing in ﬁlms.
These actions had resulted in injury or death
for several animals including a tiger, a leo-
pard, a bear and an orangutan.

After submitting his case, Mr. McCann
learned of mistreatment of an elephant
belonging to Gentle jungle and, following
investigation, submitted a second alleged
violation case; the formal complaint against
Gentlejungle was then amended to include
improper treatment of three elephants.

In March 1985 it was ruled that Gentle
jungle had violated the Animal Welfare ACt
on 13 of 14 counts. A ﬁne of315,300 was im-
posed, the exhibitor’ s license revoked and a
cease-and-desist order issued.

0 Dr. Patricia Miller, as a Regional
Animal Care Specialist, has been instru-
mental in upgrading the quality of animal

continued on page 10

 




Big money for the richest prize on earth

The message seems to have struck home at last. The felling of the world’s
rainforests—a task which current projeCtions see as being “successfully”
completed within half a century—is not just wiping out incalculable num-
bers of plant and animal species; it is not just converting some of the richest
ecosystems on Earth into unproductive moonscapes; it is not just creating
appalling hardship for millions upon millions of poor people around the
world. It is bringing about all these horrors—and more.

There is nothing new of course in the
recounting of this litany of woes. Nor in
bemoaning the salient causes: the dotty
high-tech development projects, the in-
satiable quest for firewood, the forest-
gobbling methods of cultivation, the
greed of the developed world—whose
consumption of tropical timber is 18
times higher today than 40 years ago,
and whose fast-and-furious methods of
logging are unpardonably wasteful.

What is new, though, is the belated
recognition that only aCtion which seeks
to address all main aspects of the prob-
lem stands any chance of ﬁnal success.
While the creation of national parks
may for a time deter the men with the
chain-saws, and while a nicely coor-
dinated campaign of polite pressure
and informed fulmination may even
convert such august institutions as the
World Bank to saner policies, these on
their own are at best holding tactics
which may slow but will not halt the
destruction.

For they leave out of account what is
probably the biggest single destroyer of
the rainforests: slash-and-burn farming.
Although hallowed by centuries of tra-
dition, this type of cultivation, when
practiced by hundreds of millions as it
is today, is devastating in its effects. And
it is this aspect of the matter which is
central to the strategy of an ambitious
new project whose prime mover is the
Washington-based environmental think
tank, World Resources Institute.

In pursuit of its goal of saving what

remains of the rainforests, the Institute
recommends a 5 year $8 billion plan.

Half of this money will come, it is hoped,
from the big international agencies such
as the World Bank and the UN Develop-
ment Program. The other half will
(hopefully) come from private corpora-
tions and the 56 tropical—forest countries
themselves.

The collaboration of these countries
is of course crucial. Without their com-
mitment the huge educational task
required will never get off the ground.
The rural farmer must be enrolled as a
willing and aCtive participant in reaf-
forestation and the practice of sustainable
agriculture. And this will only come

about once he has a genuine and secure
stake in the land —which at present in a
great many regions, especially in Latin
America, he does not. Feudal and re-
pressive systems of land tenure are not
only morally offensive, they are envi-
ronmentally ruinous.

By and large, the governments of
these countries now accept that eco-
nomic development and social stability
are bound up with the conservation of
their forests. The purpose of this new
initiative is to bolster government will
not just to accelerate time-honored
forms of conservation but to graft them
on to a new ethos enshrining a profound
change of attitude and methods at all
levels. Local enterprises, such as the

cultivation of tree farms and the making

and selling of energy-efficient wood
stoves, will be fueled by funds raised by
the project and the expertise attached to
it.

Every year the rainforests are losing
an area the size of Austria. And we are
all losers thereby. But at least the aware-
ness of this is now more or less universal.
The penny has dropped. And as a result
$8 billion are to be raised. Never have
levels of interest been higher! It is an
auspicious augury.

Tree farming to
the rescue?

We all know that the tropical rainforests are
fast disappearing. The reasons for this van-
ishing act are many and various but in
southeast Asia at prime cause is the global
demand for hardwood. The region supplies
more than three-quarters of all tropical

hardwood exports.

But for how long? On current trends
several traditional exporters will soon be net
importers. Thailand already is. (The situa-
tion is exacerbated by the forestry industry’s
numbing inefﬁciency. A hectare of forest
produces little more than one cubic meter of
marketable hardwood.)

One way round this problem—perhaps
the only way—is tree farming. In Sabah, the
Malaysian portion of the island of Borneo, is
a 60,000-hectare industrial plantation, Sabah
Softwoods. Despite its name its business is the
growing of hardwoods. It is concentrating
on just three species, one of which Albizzia is
reputedly the fastest growing tree in the
world.

But this tree does present marketing pro-
blems. Timber importers are a conservative
breed who do not take readily to species they
know little about. japan, the largest poren-
tial market, has placed few orders.

Overall, though, the auguries are quite
promising. Established in 1974, Sabah Soft-
wood: expected to make its first Operating
profit in 1985. And should the venture
prove successful, it is likely to prove the
model for many other parts of southeast
Asia. If it should then spread to the rainfor-
est lands of Latin America and Africa (and
why not?), rather more of the world’s pri-
mary rainforests than at present looks likely
could yet escape the greedy attentions of the
chain saw.

_

 

 

Source: World Resources Institute

Annual losses of tropical forests

— Loelngmorethenl mlllioneoresayeer
E33. LONDO 100.000 to 1 mllllon acres a year
—m Losing less then 100,000 acres a year

Credit: World Resources Institute

 

 

 




  

  
  
 

of the normal weight.

 
 
 
 
 
  
 

ter and took charge of the rearing of
both infants. Last March, Chiclette
herself gave birth to a healthy

normal-sized son, by name ET.

Chiclette’s father, Chico, was

rescued from villagers in
Madagascar and brought to
the Duke Primate Center
in 1975. Taken from his
mother as an infant, Chico
was later kept with chick-
ens and not with lemurs.
On arrival at the Center,
Chico was strongly im-
printed on chickens and
people but was extremely
aggressive towards other
lemurs. For eight years he
was kept with many dif-
ferent females, patience
ﬁnally paying off with the
birth of Chiclette.

The natural home for these
and other lemurs is the forests
of Madagascar. But the forests
are rapidly being cut down

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 

 

 
 
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
   

   
 

“ '.. ~+

Collared lemurs are not very big. Even a full-sized
baby like ET. ﬁts canyanably into a man’s hand.

6

 
 
    

 

Her mother was over 80-years-old—equivalent to 80 or 90 in
human terms—and unable to produce milk for her daugh-
ter. 80 for almost two weeks Chiclette was kept in an incu-
bator and tube-fed every two hours by round-the- ..
clock volunteers from the Primate Center. '
Fortunately, another collared lemur, Nadia,
then gave birth to a normal-sized daugh-

and large scale re-settlement has served
to weaken local taboos against the kill—
ing of lemurs. The remaining forests are
now full of lemur traps and collared
lemurs are often eaten or kept as pets.
These acrivities are illegal but enforce—
ment of the law is non-existent. As things
stand many species of lemur are head-
ing for extinction.

ET. nestles against his mother Chiclette—now considerably larger than her one-ounce birth weight!

 

T he forests are rapidly being cut down
and the remaining jbrests are now full
qflemur traps. Collared lemurs are

often eaten or kept as pets.

At Duke captiveoborn lemurs live in
semi-wild conditions—an enclosed
forest where they are studied by conser-
vationiSts. The Center’s long-term hope

Chiclette the collared lemur collars the headlines again a»

In April 1983 a collared lemur was born at the Duke Primate Center in North Carolina. Resembling
somewhat a minute E.T., her picture appeared in papers all over the world and Chiclette fan clubs
sprang up in several cities. Chiclette is one of only four female collared lemurs in captivity capa-
ble of breeding. That makes her rare enough. But what propelled her to stardom
overnight was her miniature birth size: just one ounce or one-quarter

 

is to re-stock proteCted forests in Mada-
gascar. “No serious re-introduction
programs have yet been carried out for
prosirnians,” says the Center’s director,
Dr. Elwyn Simons. “Captive breeding
programs with consequent re-introduc-
tion of primates such as that of the golden
lion marmoset in Brazil take at least 10
or 12 years to mount and require massive
funding.”

Duke is a “living library" for the study
of prosirnians and the world’s largest
reservoir of endangered primates in
captivity. By maintaining and breeding
captive populations of 22 different spe-
cies and over 500 individuals, it stands
as a second line’of defense against ex~
tinCtions in the wild with great potential
for re-introductions to the wild when
the time is ripe.

  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  

  




REMEMBERING
DIAN FOSSEY
by Shirley McGreal

As most readers will have heard, Dian
Fossey was brutally murdered, prob-
ably by poachers, in her cabin in the
Virunga Volcanoes during the Christmas
season.

Following her death, the media carried
exaggerated reports of her alleged ec-
centricities. Such reports do Dian a
great injustice. Dian was a pioneer in
acrive conservation: her studies brought
unique insights into the lives of the
dwindling population of mountain gor-
illas of Rwanda. At the same time, she
worked vigorously to prevent poaching
of her study animals and protecr their
shrinking habitat. It took real guts for a
foreign woman to drive cows out of a
national park or destroy poachers’
snares and traps. Dian had guts. If there
are any mountain gorillas left, we owe it
in large part to Dian.

It is sad that Dian died at Christmas
time. Christmas was always a joyous
event at Karisoke Research Center high
in the mountains. Dian held a tradi-
tional Christmas party for her African
staff and their families. -She wrote me
about a memorable party in 1983, after
her return to Rwanda following a 2-year
absence to write her marvelous book
Gorillas in the Mist.

On 24 December, I gave the
men and their families a BIG
Christmas party just as we used
to do in the past. 81 climbed up

and 82 descended. In between
passing out the food and gifts, I
had to delivera baby, a premature
male fathered by one of my best
trackers and named Karisoke.

Conditions at Karisoke were rugged:
the 12,000 ft. elevation made for bitter
weather and there was constant rain. I
used to nag Dian to take better care of
herself, knowing she’d never listen. In
May 1984, shewrote me saying:

Dear Shirley, I am NOT “kill-
ing myself by neglect!” In 1963, a
lung specialist warned me that it
would be suicidal to climb to
Kabara on that ﬁrst memorable
safari to Africa. I take vitamin
pills, have bought a small oxygen
machine, eat a couple of bananas
a day to avoid potassium deﬁ-
ciency, and thrive on potatoes
and eggs because of budget prob-
lems. In other words, I spoil
myselﬂ

Even when in Ruhengiri, the closest
town to Karisoke, Dian longed to be
back in the mountains with “her” goril-
las. During a hospital stay in 1984, she
wrote that she hoped her lungs would
soon be “glued back together so that I
can return to the mountains, though my
idea of recovery is somewhat different
from that of the local doctor!”

Dian took tremendous pride in the
success of the anti—poaching patrols. In
her last letter to me written on 17
October 1985, she summarized the
previous year’s successes:

As of September 1985, the Digit
Fund patrols working from Kari-
soke spent 554% more time in the
ﬁeld yet cut down 75% fewer traps
than last year.

Following the terrible tragedies of

1977-78 in which several of the gorillas
studied by Dian were killed by poachers,
Dian started a group called the Digit
Fund for the conservation and protec-
tion of mountain gorillas. Other groups
also became interested in the plight of
the mountain gorillas and considerable
funds were raised, most of which went
into a project which included promo-
tion of tourism as an aim.

Dian was always concerned at the
effects of tourism on mountain gorillas.
She was aware of the ﬁnancial beneﬁts
brought by the advent of tourism into
mountain gorilla habitat, but felt that
the human intrusion by tourists, added
to the existing intrusion into gorilla
habitat by grazers and poachers, would
ultimately be harmful. In her last letter
to me, she sadly wrote:

There is no way I can be opti-
mistic about the species’ survival,
albeit the poachers don’t roam
like buffalo anymore, nor are
traps easy to ﬁnd now. It is the
human pressure that is interfer-
ing with their privacy and preser-
vanon.

The Digit Fund, which always kept a
low proﬁle compared with the more
highly-publicized, better-funded pro-
jects, still exists, and it is absolutely vital
that Karisoke continue to serve as a base
for study and conservation of the moun-
tain gorilla. Readers wishing to help

' may send donations to The Digit Fund,

P.0. Box 25, Ithaca, NY 14851.

In 1978, following the death of Digit,
Dian wrote a touching article about his
fate and the all-over plight of the moun-
tain gorilla for IPPL. This special report
is available free from International Pri-
mate Protection League, Box 766, Summer-
ville, SC 29484.

Photo: Robert M. Campbell, (“N05 1970

 




Conference Report on the Improved
Standards for Laboratory Animals Act

Reprinted from The Congressimal Record

Amendments to Animal Welfare Act
(a) Short title

The Senate amendment designates this
title as the "Improved Standards for Labo-
ratory Animals Act". (Sec. 2001.)

The House bill contains no comparable
provision.

The Conference substitute adopts the
Senate amendment.

(bi Findings

The Senate amendment declares the find-
ings of Congress to the effect that the use
of animals is instrumental in certain re.
search and education or for advancing
knowledge of cures and treatments for dis-
eases and injuries which afflict both
humans and animals; methods of testing
that do not use animals are being and con
tinue to be developed which are faster. less
expensive. and more accurate than tradi-
tional animal experiments for some pur-
poses and further opportunities exist for
the development of these methods of test-
ing: measures which eliminate or minimize
the unnecessary duplication of experiments
on animals can result in more productive
use of Federal funds; and measures which

University fined for
cruelty to baboons

Last july, following sustained pressure
by Peoplejbr the Ethical Treatment of Animals
and a preliminary report by NIH inves-
tigators, the government “suspended
the use of federal funds for primate
research on head injury at the Univer—
sity of Pennsylvania" pending ‘a full
enquiry (see Summer Quarteriy, page 3).

In September, following this enquiry,
the US. Department of Agriculture
charged the University with serious
breaches of the Animal Welfare Act.
Bert Hawkins, administrator of USDA’s
Animal and Plant Health Inspection
Service, said: “Some baboons were ap-
parently operated on without adequate
anesthesia, some were operated on
under unsanitary conditions and some
were not given adequate care after they
had been injured during experiments.”

In November USDA announced that
the University had agreed to pay a
$4000 fine and to abide in future by the
regulations of the Animal Welfare Ace

Dr. Thomas W. Langiitt and Dr.
Thomas A. Gennarelli, principal inves-
tigators in the baboon head injury
project, were reprimanded by the Uni-
versity of Pennsylvania in a letter signed
by the University’s President, Sheldon
Hackney, and the Provost, Thomas
Ehrlich. The baboon head injury exper-
iments have ceased.

8

help meet the public concern for laboratory
animal care and treatment are important in
assuring that research will continue to
progress. (Sec. 2002.)

The House bill contains no comparable
provision.

The Conference substitute adopts the
Senate provision.

The Conference intends that the adequa-
cy of efforts to develop techniques that
reduce or eliminate the use of animals be a
matter of continuing concern and attention.

(c) Standards and certification process

The Senate amendment revises the stand-
ards. required to be promulgated by the Sec-
retary of Agriculture. which govern the
humane handling. care. treatment. and
transportation of animals by dealers. re-
search facilities. and exhibitors.

The Senate amendment provides that
these standards would include minimum re-
quirements for handling. housing. feeding.
watering. sanitation. ventilation. shelter
from extremes of weather and tempera-
tures. adequate veterinary care. and separa-
tion by species for humane handling. care.
or treatment of animals: and for the exer-
cise of dogs and for a physical environment
adequate to promote the psychological well~
being of primates.

With respect to animals in research facili-
ties these standards would include require-
ments (A) for animal care. treatment. and
practices in experimental procedures to
ensure that animal pain and distress are
minimized. including adequate veterinary
care with the appropriate use of anesthetic.
analgesic. tranquillzing drugs. or euthana-
sia; (B) that the principal investigator con-
siders alternatives to any procedure likely to
produce pain to or distress in an experimen~
tal animal; (C) in any practice which would
cause pain to animals (i) that a doctor of
veterinary medicine is consulted in the plan-
ning of such procedures; (ii) for the use of
tranquilizers. analgesics. and anesthetics:
(ill) for pre~surgical and post-surgical care
by laboratory workers. in accordance with
established veterinary medical and nursing
procedures; (iv) against the use of paralytics
without anesthesia; and (V) that the with-
holding of tranquilizers. anesthesia. analge-
sia. or euthanasia when scientifically neces-
sary would continue for only the necessary
period of time: (D) that no animal is used in
more than one major operative experiment
from which it is allowed to recover except in
cases of (l) scientific necessity: or (ii) other
special circumstances as determined by the
Secretary: and (E) that exceptions to such
standards may be made only when specified
by research protocol and that any exception
would be detailed and justified in a report
filed with the Institutional Animal Commit-
tee (established under the provisions of the
bill).

Nothing in the bill would be construed as
authorizing the Secretary to promulgate
rules. regulations. or orders with regard to
the design. outlines. or guidelines of actual
research or experimentation by a research

facility or Federal research facility. Howev-
er. the Secretary would require every re-
search facility to show that professionally
acceptable standards governing the care.
treatment. and practices on animals were
being followed by the research facility
during research and experimentation. No
rule. regulation. order. or part of this bill
would require a research facility to disclose
publicly or to the Institutional Animal Com-
mittee during its inspection. trade secrets or
commercial or financial information which
is privileged or confidential.

The Secretary would require. at least an-
nually. that every research facility and Fed-
eral research facility report that the provi-
sions of the bill were being followed.

These research facilities would provide
(A) information on procedures which were
likely to produce pain or distress in any
animal and assurances demonstrating that
the principal investigator considered alter.
natives to those procedures; (B) assurances
satisfactory to the Secretary that the facili-
ty was adhering to the standards described
in this bill; and (C) an explanation for any
deviation from the standards promulgated
under this bill.

No State would be prohibited from pro-
mulgating standards in addition to those
standards promulgated by the Secretary
under the bill. (Sec. 2003)

The House bill contains no comparable
provision.

The Conference substitute adopts the
Senate provision with an amendment to pro-
vide that. an attending veterinarian would
be responsible for ensuring that dogs receive
a reasonable amount of exercise according
to general standards promulgated by the
Secretary of Agriculture.

The Conferees intend the standards for
exercise for dogs to offer a variety of possi-
bilities to allow the animal motion. It could
consist of regularly letting the dog out of its
cage for a period of titne. the use of dog
runs. or allowing ample room in animal
housing.

The intent of standards with regard to
promoting the psychological well-being of
primates is to provide adequate space
equipped with devices for exercise consist-
ent with the primate's natural instincts and
habits.

The Conference substitute also amends
the Senate provision to—

(1) except as provided in the Act. prohibit
the Secretary from promulgating rules and
regulations with regard to designs. outlines.
or guidelines of actual research or represen-
tations by a research facility as determined
by such march facility;

(2) except as provided in the Act. prohibit
the Secretary from promulgating rules and
regulations or orders with regard to the per-
formance of actual research or experimen-
tation by a research facility as determined
by such a research facility:

(3) prohibit the Secretary. during any in-
spection. to interrupt the conduct of re-
search or experimentation: and

(4) require every research facility and
Federal research facility to show upon in-
spection and to report at least annually that
the provisions of this Act are being fol-
lowed.

While the main purpose of the amend-
ments to the Animal Welfare Act is to im-
prove the authority of the Secretary of Ag-
riculture to insure the proper care and
treatment of animals used in research. the
conferees are also concerned that responsi-
ble research not be interfered with inappro-
priately. Thus. the conference substitute in-
cludes a provision prohibiting federal in-
spectors from interrupting the conduct of
actual research or experimentation. The
language establishes the general areas in
which the Secretary may promulgate regu-
lations with regard to the conduct of actual
research. These circumstances were made
clear so that essential research not be im-
peded. As in the past. the Committee in-
tends that the research facility show that
professionally acceptable standards are
being followed during the actual research or
experimentation.

The Conferees intend that the Secretary
of Agriculture will consult with the Secre-
tary of Health and Human Services to avoid
duplicative reporting requirements where
possible.

The Conferees also intend to allow private
research facilities to protect their intellectu-
al property rights from disclosure. If such

see facing page

 




Improved Standards for Laboratory Animals Act: Conference Report

rights. in the opinion of the owner. may rea-
sonably be compromised or subject to disclo-
sure during an inspection of an institutional
Animal Committee. the owner may exclude
the committee from inspecting the limited
area within the facility during such proprie-
tary activity.

tdl Institutional Animal Committee

The Senate amendment would require the
Secretary to require that each research fa-
cility establish at least one Institutional
Animal Committee. Each Institutional
Animal Committee would be appointed by
the chief executive officer of each research
facility and would be composed of not fewer
than three members. These members would
possess sufficient ability to assess animal
care. treatment. and practices in experimen-
tal research. as determined by the needs of
the research facility. and would represent
society's concerns regarding the welfare of
animal subjects used at the facility.

The Institutional Animal Committee
would inspect at least semiannually all
animal study areas and animal facilities of
the research facility and review as part of
the inspection practices involving pain to
animals. and the condition of animals. in
order to ensure compliance with the provi-
sions of this bill and that pain and distress
to animals is minimized. Exceptions to the
requirement of inspection of study areas
could be made by the Secretary if animals
were studied in their natural environment
and the study area is prohibitive to easy
access.

The Institutional Animal Committee must
file an inspection certification report of
each inspection at the research facility.

In the case of Federal research facilities. a
Federal Institutional Animal Committee
would be established and would have the
gauge composition and responsibilities. (Sec.

00 .)

The House bill contains no comparable
provision.

The Conference substitute adopts the
Senate provision with an amendment to
delete all references to "Institutional
Animal" after the first referral to the Insti-
tutional Animal Committee.

tel Research facility training

Each research facility would provide for
annual training for scientists. animal tech-
nicians. and other personnel involved with
animal care and treatment in the facility.
This training would include instruction on
the humane practice of animal maintenance
and experimentation: research or testing
methods that minimize or eliminate the use
of animals or limit animals pain or distress:
utilization of the information service at the
National Agricultural Library. (established
under the provisions of the bill); and include
methods whereby deficiencies in animal
care and treatment should be reported.
(Sec. 2003.)

The House bill contains no comparable
provision.

The Conference substitute adopts the
Senate provision with an amendment to
retain training requirements. but delete ref-
erences to any "annual" training. The Con-
ference substitute also clarifies that such
training procedures would be subject to the
requirements issued by the Secretary of Ag-
riculture.

The Conferees intend that instruction of
research facility employees covered the
basic needs of each species appropriate to
the conditions of the animals and provide
appropriate instructions for scientists as
specified in the Act.

All personnel are intended to be acquaint-
ed with the provisions of this Act and in-
structed to report deficiencies promptly to
ensure that the institution is in compliance
at all times. No employee shall be discrimi-

nated against for reporting violations.
If) Information service

The Secretary would establish an infor-
mation service at the National Agricultural
Library. This service would provide informa-
tion (A) pertinent to employee training; (8)
which could prevent unintended duplication
of animal experimentation as determined by
the needs of the research facility; and (C)
on improved methods of animal experimen-
tation. including methods which could
reduce or replace animal use. and minimize
pain and distress to animals. such a anes-
thetic and analgesic procedures. (Sec. 2003.)

The House bill contains no comparable
provision.

The Conference substitute adopts the
Senate provision.

The conferee intend that all investigators
be provided ready access to methods of re-
search and testing involving fewer or no ani-
mals. or reduced pain or distress through
the National Agriculture Library in coopera-
tion with the National Library of Medicine.
The conferees further intend that the Na-
tional Agriculture Library maintains a data
base of instructional materials to be avail-
able to research facilities to enhance uni-
formity of training.

(a) Loss of Federal funding

In any case in which a Federal agency
funding a research project determines that
conditions of animal care. treatment. or
practice in a particular project have not
been in compliance with standards promul-
gated under this bill. despite notification by
the Secretary or the Federal agency to the
research facility and an opportunity for cor-
rection. the agency must suspend or revoke
Federal support. Any research facility
losing Federal support would have the right
to appeal such loss. (Sec. 2003.)

The House bill contains no comparable
provision.

The Conference substitute adopts the
Senate provision.

(hi Inspections

The Senate amendment requires the Sec-
retary to inspect each research facility at
lease once each year and. in the case of defi-
ciencies or deviations from the standards
promulgated under the bill. to conduct such
follow-up inspections as may be necessary
until all deficiencies or deviations from the
standards are corrected. (Sec. 2004.)

The House bill contains no comparable
provision.

The Conference substitute adopts the
Senate provision.

(i) Penalty for release of trade secrets

The Senate amendment prohibits the re-
lease by any member of the Institutional
Animal Committee of any confidential in-
formation of the research facility including
any information that concerns or relates to
the trade secrets. processes. operations.
style of work, or apparatus, or the identity.
confidential statistical data. amount or
source of any income. profits. losses. or ex-
penditures of the research facility. Members
of the Committee would also be prohibited
from using or attempting to use to a mem-
ber‘s advantage. or to reveal to any other
person. any information which is entitled to
protection as confidential information
under these provisions.

A violation of the confidentiality provi-
sions would be punishable by removal from
the Committee. and either a fine of not
more than 81.000 and imprisonment of not
more than one year. or if the violation is
willful. a fine of not more than 810.000 and
imprisonment of not more than three years.

Any person. including any research facili-
ty. injured in its business or property by
reason of a violation of the confidentiality
provisions could recover all actual and con-

sequential damages sustained. (Sec. 2005.)

The House bill contains no comparable
provision.

The Conference substitute adopts the
Senate provision.

The penalities in this Act are directed
toward members of the Institutional Animal
Committee which attempt to use facility in-
tellectual property to- their own benefit. It is
not meant to interfere with standard report-
ing procedures outlined in this Act. or as de-
termined by the Secretary.

(j) Civil penalties

The Senate amendment increases the
amount of civil penalties authorized under
the Animal Welfare Act from 81.000 to
32.500 and from 8500 to $1.500 for failure to
obey a cease and desist order. The criminal
penalty is increased from 81.000 to 82.500.
(Sec. 2006).

The House bill contains no comparable
provision.

The Conference substitute adopts the
Senate provision.

(kl Definitions

The Senate amendment defines (A) the
term “Federal agency” to mean an Executive
agency. and with respect to any research fa~
cility. it means the agency from which the
research facility receives a Federal award
for the conduct of research. experimenta-
tion. or testing, involving the use of animals:
(8) the term “quorum" to mean a majority
of the Committee members: and (C) the
”Federal research facility" to mean each de-
partment. agency. or instrumentality of the
United States which uses live animals for re
search or experimentation.

The House bill contains no comparable
provision.

The Conference substitute adopts the
Senate provision with an amendment to
define the term "Federal Award" as any
mechanism under which Federal funds are
used to support the conduct of research.

The Conferees expect the Secretary of Ag
riculture to have full responsibility for en-
forcement of the Animal Welfare Act. How-
ever. the Conferees also recognize that a
portion of the nation's reseach facilities fall
under regulation from more than one
agency. While the legislative mandate of
each agency is different. and they may regu-
late different aspects of animal care. it is
hoped that the agencies continue an open
communications to avoid conflicting regula-
tions wherever possible or practice.

(1) Effective date

The Senate amendment provides that
these provisions in the bill would take effect
l year after enactment of the bill.

The. House bill contains no comparable
provmon.

The Conference substitute adopts the
Senate provision.

The Conferees are aware that zoological
institutions already comply with humane
care. handling. and transportation regula-
tions promulgated pursuant to the Endan-
gered Species Act. the Marine Mammal Pro-
tection Act. and the Migratory Bird Treaty
Act. The permitting system established
under these statutes are not considered to
be Federal awards by this Act. The confer-
ees do not intend for this Act to alter the
Secretary's determination in regard to the
classification of zoological institutions as re-
search facilities.

The conferees intend for the definition of
pain to be pain other than slight or momen-
tary. such as that caused by injections or
other minor procedures.

The conferees recognize past difficulties
in supplying Animal and Plant Health In.
spection Service inspectors with adequate
training. It is intended by the conferees that
additional training will be provided.

 




Are ducks going the way of
the passenger pigeon?
The September-October issue of the hunting magazine Sporting Classics

carried an article billed as “the most important in our 4-year history.” It was
titled The truth about ducks and makes bleak reading.

North America’s spring duck popula-
tion apparently dropped 18% between
1984 and 1985—the steepest one-year
drop since the early part of the century.
And compared with 80 years ago many
of what are still regarded as the more
common species—mallard, bluewing,
pintail, black duck—are now at half
Strength or less.

The Sporting Classics article lays the
main blame for this grim situation on
habitat destruCtion coupled with pro-
longed drought which in the last ﬁve
years has dried out thousands of pot-
holes in what were previously nesting
areas. The magazine admits, though,
that “enormous hunting pressure is
compounding the problem.” And hunt-
ers are brusquely told that with some
species, such as mallard, they are not
“harvesting a surplus,” but destroying
the breeding stock.

This assertion has been ﬂatly contra-
dicted by Ducks Unlimited (a body dedi-
cated to the promotion of waterfowl
hunting) which has made much of a re-
port bya Canadian biologist who claims
that duck populations are recovering.

The US. Fish and Wildlife Service

Hunting pumas is no
sport for sportsmen

In California a 18-year ban on the
hunting of pumas expired at the end of
last year and next fall could see hunters
legitimately shooting pumas again. The
state’s Fish and Game Commission has
moved to open a late 1986 hunt Hear-
ings will be in the spring.

That in some places some control is
needed is not in serious dispute (attacks
on livestock have sharply increased in
certain areas) but ultimately the issue is
not so much one of biology as of philos-
ophy. Should control be exercised by
Fish and Game or should it be left to
hunters who are likely to compound the
problem by killing the mature animals,
so permitting the transient younger
animals, which may ﬁnd cattle an easier
target than wild prey, to move in and
settle in these critical areas?

But perhaps this question should not
be decided until another question has

10

and the Canadian Wildlife Service, how-
ever, agree with the pessimists. They
believe that the number of ducks mi-
grating south in the fall of 1985 could
have been the lowest on record. This
dismal assessment has led the Delta
Waterfowl and Wetlands Research Sta-
tion to state: “We should recognize that
the decline in duck numbers is unpre-
cedented and extremely serious. This
calls for an end to the bickering over the
resource. If we don’t aCt correctly now,
there will be no ducks left to ﬁght over.”

In response to this call duck hunters
are being faced with a curtailed 198 5-86
season and a lower limit on the daily
bag. The overall aim is to reduce the
total of ducks shot by 25%.

Reduced hunting quotas, though,
make no allowance for the huge num-
bers of waterfowl—an estimated two to
three million ducks and geese every
year—which die from swallowing the
lead shot which litters their feeding
places (and which may well be affecting
the breeding performance of those less-
than-lethally poisoned). Lead shot
should be banned forthwith—and
throughout the country, not just in a
few token areas as at present

been raised. Which is—Is puma hunt-
ing a sport? Says Susan de Treville, vice
president of the Wildlife Conservancy.
“Most of the work is done by the dogs.
You have a cornered animal 20 or 25
feet away, and blowing it out of the tree
doesn’t take much markrnanship. Some
houndsmen in Texas will tree a lion,
radio back and bring in wealthy people
by helicopter to shoot it.” . . . . Sport?

V“ an.

Photo: “Steve Johnson

Monitor Awards
amdhmatﬁmnfnyr4

welfare inspections in each of the eight states
assigned to the Western Region. She has
planned, developed, and directed numerous
local and national training programs and
has been most effective as an instructor at
many of these courses.

Recently retired, one of Dr. Miller’s last
ofﬁcial contributions to the welfare of ani—
mals was her comprehensive investigation
of alleged violations of the Animal Welfare
Act by the City of Hope National Medical
Center in southern California. Her dili-
gence and attention to detail resulted in the
successful prosecution of a case charging the
facility with inadequate veterinary care, fail-
me to provide adequate shelter for experi-
mental animals, and failure to maintain
proper records. A ﬁne of $11,000 was
imposed.

e In june 1982 Dr. Homer Malaby,jr.,
Veterinary Medical Officer, Veterinary Ser-
vices (VS), California, was assigned the
primary animal welfare inspection duties
for the University of California at Berkeley.
Dr. Malaby soon realized that deﬁciencies
identiﬁed at several of the sites would readily
be corrected as required only to reappear on
subsequent inspections.

Dr. Malaby therefore chose to concentrate
on the root cause of the problem, namely,
management’s reluctance to cooperate in
setting matters right Using the site’s record
of chronic deﬁciencies coupled with those
identiﬁed on a current inspection, he sub-
mitted an alleged violation case in December
1982.

In january and again in August of 1983
inspectors revealed similar deﬁciencies. A
formal complaint was then ﬁled. As a result
the University was ordered to cease and
desist; to establish an advisory committee at
the Chancellor level to oversee efforts to
correct standards; to submit quarterly pro-
gress reports to the Chancellor and V8; to
establish a training program for all personnel
involved with animal care and handling;
and to pay a $12,000 ﬁne of which 810,000
was to be used by the Chancellor for training
and other improvements in their animal
care program.

This is the ﬁrst time that a major university
has been charged with violations of the
Animal Welfare Aet.

As is traditional, The Monitor Awards
were standing sculptures created by
john Perry of California, who has con-
tributed striking wildlife statues for pre-
sentation to the winners each year.
These were eagles, that reflected the
soaring grace of these birds.

Many recipients made moving and
thoughtful acceptance speeches which
made clear their dedication and their
expertise. In the short time they have
been in existence, The Monitor Awards
have become established as cherished
tributes to a very special breed of pub-
lic servant.

 




Black-footed ferret’s
toe-hold grip on life

A combination of bad luck and human
error is leading the black-footed ferret
to the brink of extinction. And not for
the ﬁrst time. Back in the early 1970s the
population had shrunk to just one col-
ony in South Dakota. And when in 1978
these few animals were exterminated by
the poisoning of the prairie dog towns
they depended on, the species was be-
lieved lost.

However, a small colony was dis-
covered in 1981 near Meeteetse, Wyo-
ming. As its numbers grew—to 129 by
1984—so optimism rose for the survi-
val of this mammal. But by the summer
of 1985, no more than 58 were found in
the wild. The population continued to
plummet until only eight were left.
These eight were then captured in alast-
ditch attempt to save the species.

Their decline was ﬁrst blamed on an
outbreak of the sylvatic plague among
their prey, the prairie dog. Though the

’ z
§
:43
, ‘5
, ' ,~1
§

arenobetterthanevm

/ //// ‘

Animal Welfare Institute

Scientiﬁc Committee

Marjorie Anchel, Ph.D.
Bennett Derby, M.D.

F. Barbara Orlans, Ph.D.
Roger Payne, Ph.D.
Samuel Peacock, M.D.
john Walsh, M.D.

’//// ,///’, //1 /, >-

'//// ' /////,,-'/////////, //// ////////1' ,

Staff

International Committee

Aline S. de Aluja, D.V.M. - Mexico

T.G. Antikas, D.V.M. — Greece
Ambassador Tabarak Husain — Bangladesh
Angela King - United Kingdom

Simon Muchiru — Kenya

David Ricardo -— Canada

Godofredo Stutzin — Chile

N.E. Wernberg — Denmark

ferrets themselves are immune to the
plague, they depend upon an abun-
dance of prairie dogs to sustain them
throughout the harsh Wyoming winters.
Wyoming Fish and Game battled the
plague but wildlife olﬁcials were soon
tackling a threat even more serious for
the ferrets: canine distemper.

Fearing their rapid decline was lead-
ing to extinction, the Wyoming Fish and
Game department took six ferrets from
the wild to start a captive breeding pro-
gram. Instead of isolating the ferrets as a
precautionary measure, Torn Thome,
the primary veterinarian, placed all six
in one room. “It’s something I wish I
hadn’t done,” Thome said after it be-
came apparent that all had developed
highly contagious distemper. After four
of those ferrets fell victim to the fatal
disease (two remain ill), six more were
captured and placed in strict isolation.

Tim Clark, a biologist who had been
studying the ferrets for over a decade,
was among those calling for a captive
breeding program when the Wyoming
colony was ﬁrst discovered. When the
plague hit the prairie dogs, Clark feared
the ferrets could not survive the winter
without adequate food and, with con-
servation groups, stepped up pressure
for government action. But Wyoming
Fish and Game argued that no such
program had succeeded for the ferrets
in the past and that they would fare
better in the wild.

Their prospeCts now seem to hinge
on the success or failure of the remain-
ing ferrets to reproduce. Clark reports
that “no other ferrets have been found
in the wild. . . but it’s very hard to
survey. I think the species has a ﬁfty-ﬁfty

chance for surviv .” ,
—_]essre Despard

’ ///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////, ’/////////////////////. ’///////////////////////////////////,0 //// ’ /, ' ’/ / 1’ / -/ ’/"/ //// ’I ’ "7” ’/// ’/ ”r

Officers

Christine Stevens, President
Cynthia Wilson, Vice President

Marjorie Cooke, Secretary
Roger L. Stevens, Treasurer

An award for TED

TED has been honored. This “turtle
excluder device” (or “trawling efﬁci-
ency device”) has won the 1984 Special
Group Award of Merit given by the
American Institute of Fishery Research
Biologists. The recipient, on behalf of
TED, was the Harvesting Technology
Division of the National Marine Fisher-
ies Service.

TED is a cage-like construcdon which
ﬁts into a shrimp trawl net. Its purpose
is to cut the ﬁshermen’s “accidental”
harvest (see fall 1983 Qrarterly). In test
trials it has been shown to reduce the
catch of sea turtles (and other large crea-
tures such as horseshoe crabs and ﬁn-
ﬁsh) by as much as 97%. But what parti-
cularly endears it to ﬁshermen is that it
also boosts the shrimp catch.

Nevertheless, at the present time, less
than 10% of shrimpers are using the
device, and those who are using it are
doing this only to discard jelly ﬁsh and
trash ﬁsh, rather than to save sea turtles.

The latest version of TED completely
meets the original objeCtions the
shrimpers voiced, including a lighter,
more easily handled model that reduces
the risk of injury to the ﬁsherman.

At present, we are one year away
from the end of the 5-year period that
the industry and government agreed
upon as a trial time for the adoption of
TED. We urge that the government pro-
mulgate “stand by” regulations to give
it the authority to require the use of
TED at the end of this period.

Friends of endangered sea turtles are
invited to write to: William G. Gordon,
National Marine Fisheries Service, 3300
Whitehaven St, NW, Washington, DC 20235.

' / I//// ' */ '2’ //////// v'//, ///////////z //. ’ ll;
\

Directors

John Beary, M.D.
Madeleine Bernelmans
Gerard Bertrand, Ph.D.
Marjorie Cooke
Christabel Cough
David 0. Hill

Sue Hunt

Freeborn G. Jewett, Jr.
Christine Stevens
Aileen Train

Cynthia Wilson

Greta Nilsson, Wildlife Consultant

Adele Schoepperle, Assistant Treasurer
Susan M. Wogan, Publications Coordinator
Louise Wright, Research Assistant

Diane Halverson, Research Associate
for livestock and poultry
Lynne Hutchison, Whale Campaign Secretary
Cathy Liss, Research Associate
Nell Naughton, Mail Order Secretary

Patrick Allen, Editorial Consultant

Cynthia A. Bank, Executive Assistant

jessie Despard, Administrative Assistant

Rose R. Eek, Administrative Assistant
for Communications

,2 ' ’// ///4 . ////"/I/// 'L'

V/////7//////////7//7

-'////////: ~///////////w /, '////////.-///, 7/ x//////r////////////////////////////////////7//////////////////////, ////////////. ’//////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////’l///’//’///////////////////////////////////////////)2

 




To the rescue —— a humpback whale is freed!

it .
l

The whale was dying. Digit, an endan-
gered humpback that we had been
studying since 1980 in a very special
area off Cape Cod, was severely en-
tangled in polypropylene fishing line.
Swimming with much difficulty and
unable to feed because of the line through
his mouth, Digit was slowly starving to
death. That was why 1 1 members of the
Cetacean Research Program at the Cen-
ter for Coastal Studies set out to rescue
him. When the ﬁrst attempt had to be
called off at nightfall, the team stood by,
ready to launch the rescue as soon as
Digit was sighted again.

Ten days later, on the afternoon of 30
july, our waiting was over. Digit, looking
very weak and emaciated, was found by
a whale-watching vessel, and within an
hour the team was underway. With
methods borrowed from whalers’ ac-
counts and used successfully for the
release of humpback whales Ibis in
November 1984 and Fern in April
1985, we approached Digit in small
inﬂatable craft and attached buoys to
the line trailing behind him, intending

by this means to take him to the point
that he would lie virtually motionless on
the surface allowing us to cut the lines
entangling him.

However, Digit had an immense re-
serve of energy that took everyone by
surprise. After following him for nearly
two hOurs, we were only able to remove
about one-third of the line before Digit
gave two powerful breaches, breaking
the line to which the buoys were attached.
The team watched as he swam off into
the darkness, still entangled. The mood
on our research vessel Halos as it headed
back to Provincetown was somber. We
could only hope that we would get
another chance in the near future to
completely free Digit. ‘

Two weeks later our hopes were ful-
ﬁlled, though not as expected. Digit was
sighted actively feeding, all traces of line
gone! Apparently the rescuers had cut
enough of it for the rest to slip off by
itself. The only visible traces of Digit’s
traumatic experience were some rope
scars, but who knows what other scars
the animal carries with him?

Digit’s story had a happy ending, but
every day marine animals are getting
fatally entangled in the unattended fish-
ing gear that fouls the world’s oceans.
The Center for Coastal Studies is trying
to save some of those marine mammals
and turtles, and in order for us to
respond more effectively to emergencies
we have established the Whale Rescue
Fund. Any tax deductible donations
will be deeply appreciated. They can be
sent directly to: The Whale Rescue Fund,
Center for Coastal Studies, Box 826, Province-
town, MA 02657.

-—Marilyn Marx

A ﬁne nose
for narcotics

Man’s best friend is also the drug-traﬂicker’s
chidﬁre. At airports, seaports and border
check points across the U. S. trained dogs,
belonging to the Customs Canine Corps, are
sniﬂing out illicit shipments of narcotics——
more than 4 000 packages a year with a street
value of around $250 million.

While most of these dogs come ﬁom animal
pounds, some are donated by citizens wishing
to help the program. Pedigrees are un-
important but only about one dog in 50
measures up to the required standard. The
animals must have an even temperament, be
able to absorb intense training and to work
long hours under strenuous conditions.

Dogs selected for training undergo a mini-
mum of 14 weeks at the canine training
center in Front Royal, Virginia. Here they
must learn to distinguish from the hundreds
of chemicals coming into the country the tell-
taleodors of cocaine, heroin, opium, mar-guano
and other narcotics. Thereafter they are on 3-
month trial with an oﬂicer who has himselﬂ
in all probability, just completed a training
course. For the human half of the man/dog
team must know how to respond to the
detection signals of his animal.

This man/dog collaboration guarantees
both speed and eﬂiciency. A dog can check out
a package in seconds and at border crossings
a vehicle can be thoroughly searched in five
minutes where a man operating alone would
need 20 minutes to make even a cursory
inspection. The customs service claims that
every dollar spent on these teams results in
the seizure of $85 worth of drugs. For sheer
oost-ﬁectiveness what other government oper-
ation can match this?!

The average working life of the dogs is nine
years. In retirement they usually live with
their own team oﬂicer with whom a close
bond will have been formed. But where this
is not possible there is seldom any diﬂiculty
in ﬁnding a good home ﬁr these deserving
and very ﬁ-iendly public servants.

 




 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE P.O. Box 3650 Washington, D.C. 20007

September 30, 1986

Dear Members and Friends:

The Albert Schweitzer Medal of the Animal Welfare Institute
will be presented to Senator Robert Dole, who, for the second
time, has led the United States Senate to approve major
strengthening amendments to the federal Animal Welfare Act.
As Senate Majority Leader, he brought the Dole-Brown bill to
the Senate floor last fall, and it was signed into law at the
end of the year.

This is the third major legislative achievement for animals
for which Senator Dole was responsible. He was the author of
the 1970 amendments to the Animal Welfare Act in the Senate,
and in 1978 he obtained Senate passage of a greatly
strengthened and broadened Humane Slaughter Act.

In recognition of his long-standing determination to prevent
mistreatment of animals, he will be honored at a ceremony
October 14th at 5:30 p.m. on the 9th floor of the Hart Senate
Office Building. A reception will follow the ceremony. YOu
are cordially invited to come and to bring a friend
interested in advancing the welfare of animals. The
visitors' entrance to the Hart Senate Office Building is
located on Second Street between Constitition Avenue and C
Street, N. E.

Looking forward to greeting you, I am
Sincerely,

Cam; 5;...

Christine Stevens
President

 




 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE PO. Box 3650 Washington, DC. 20007

September 30, 1986

Dear Members and Friends:

The Albert Schweitzer Medal of the Animal Welfare Institute
will be presented to Senator Robert Dole, who, for the second
time, has led the United States Senate to approve major
strengthening amendments to the federal Animal Welfare Act.
As Senate Majority Leader, he brought the Dole-Brown bill to
the Senate floor last fall, and it was signed into law at the
end of the year.

This is the third major legislative achievement for animals
for which Senator Dole was responsible. He was the author of
the 1970 amendments to the Animal Welfare Act in the Senate,

and in 1978 he obtained Senate passage of a greatly
strengthened and broadened Humane Slaughter Act.

In recognition of his long-standing determination to prevent
mistreabment of animals, he will be honored at a ceremony
October 14th at 5:30 p.m. on the 9th floor of the Hart Senate
Office Building. A reception will follow the ceremony. YOu
are cordially invited to come and to bring a friend
interested in advancing the welfare of animals. The
visitors' entrance to the Hart Senate Office Building is
located on Second Street between Constitition Avenue and C
Street, N. E.

Looking forward to greeting you, I am
Sincerely,

626.67.:wa

Christine Stevens
President

 




The Directors of the Animal Welfare Institute
request the honor of your presence
at the presentation of the

Schweitzer Award for 1986

to

Robert Dole

Majority Leader of the
United States Senate

on Tuesday, October 14th
at five thirty o’clock

Ninth Floor
Hart Senate Office Building

Entrance on Second Street
between Constitution Avenue and C Street, NE.

R.S.V.P.

Mrs. Roger Stevens

1686 34th St., NW.

Washington, DC. 20007 Reception
337—2332 following the ceremony

 




 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE P.O. Box 3650 Washington, DC. 20007

October 1, 1986 FOR MORE INFORMATION CONTACT:
Cathy Liss
(202) 337-2332

EOE IMMEDIATE RELEASE

Senator Robert Dole will be awarded the 27th Albert
Schweitzer Medal of the Animal Welfare Institute October 14,
1986 at 5:30 p.m., 9th floor of the Hart Senate Office
Building.

The major federal legislation protecting animals in
laboratories, animal dealers' premises, zoos, and circuses,
as well as in transit, was strengthened and broadened through
Dole's leadership in 1970 and 1985. In 1978 he achieved
Senate passage of effective humane slaughter legislation.

A long-standing champion of animals in need, the Senate
Majority Leader is regularly accompanied to his office by
"Leader," a schnauzer picked out for him at the Washington
Humane Society by his wife Elizabeth, Secretary of
Transportation.

The first Albert Schweitzer Medal of the Animal Welfare
Institute was presented to Dr. Schweitzer himself in 1954 by
Dr. Charles Joy at Oslo, Nbrway, where Dr. Schweitzer had
gone to accept the Nobel Peace Prize. It has since been
awarded for the most outstanding contributions to animal

welfare. Previous medalists include Rachel Carson, Hubert
Humphrey, Warren Magnuson, and Russell Train.

 




 

 

g ttk’ v a Z
n “
\) 7 I [.1 _/ / \1

/,,'//? ,.Z,( //—Z){’ L”
A‘ /{ (6’ $1 (W’(’ “’ H"

/(/’//V// _/// /})’lg/‘.

,"kV—u/ (IV

I
I

..\ / g “I! , i. / , (7
.J

5’

f /, V/ 77.17“
a ‘ /{/.'_/.I. Q’ If. 'f Iﬁ L g 1/\ [db ,zW/I/ﬁ— ﬂbk»

4
«(:‘L- C//

/“ 741L444

c‘ /.

a
4/7 I j7y;1,,/ ﬂf/z/M

[ ;/(:/1 {ﬂJx/Cﬂ/ﬁa

A ﬂﬂw/w

I

‘~—"2

...r

   
   
    
  
  
  
   
 

I } w—
9 7 / /' z “ f“ f” /
. r f .e." /,-‘ ’ ,2" ' ,. " . J ,1 ,.
(If, ' / 31/ x ,1)»"{.« / ’1 ’f/thﬂtz/f \‘(x’é’g /) .2 Va V {.6 . t \wl’ Afr \_
W. A. '.“r_ I... I.) if

 

         




 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE PO. Box 3650 Washington, D.C. 20007

October 1, 1986 FOR MORE INFORMATION CONTACT:
Cathy Liss ",'
(202) 337—2332
- EOE lMMEDIATE RELEASE
Senator Robert Dole will be awarded the 27th Albert
Schweitzer Medal of the Animal Welfare Institute October 14,
1986 at 5:30 p.m., 9th floor of the Hart Senate Office
Building.
The major federal legislation protecting animals in
laboratories, animal dealers' premises, zoos, and circuses,

as well as in transit, was strengthened and broadened through

Dole's leadership in 1970 and 1985. In 1978 he achieved

Senate passage of effective humane slaughter legislation.

A long-standing champion of animals in need, the Senate
Majority Leader is regularly accompanied to his office by
"Leader," a schnauzer his wife Elizabeth, Secretary of
Transportation, picked out for him at the Washington Humane
Society.

The first Albert Schweitzer Medal of the Animal Welfare
Institute-was presented to Dr. Schweitzer himself in 1954 by
Dr. Charles Joy at Oslo, Norway, where Dr. Schweitzer had
gone to accept the Nobel Peace Prize. It has since been
awarded for the most outstanding contributions to animal
welfare. Previous medalists include Rachel Carson, Hubert
Humphrey, Warren Magnuson, and Russell Train.

 




 
  

"n.

1". V" - "/l‘ii' "(i r 741, . -"" ",-
~. \ ,
“ v . V“ .
\ é . u’ ~r _ ' . ‘
‘33s.— "/ \‘\-—/
v

ANIMAL WELFARE EF‘QS'E‘ETU?E Po. Box 3550 Washington. D.C.20007

  
 

 

   
 
 
 
   
    
 
 
  
 
   
 
  
  
  
   
  
 
  
   
 
 
  

October 10, 1986

Rules Committee
United States Senate
Washington, D.C. 20510

Attn: Kimberly,

In accordance with advice given to us by Elaine Groneman
of the Senate Superintendant's Office, I am submitting a
list of the materials and supplies which we will bring
into the Hart Office Building on October 14, 1986. This is
for the Award Presentation to honor Senator Robert Dole
and will take place in the ninth floor reception area of
Hart from 5:30 to 7:30.

Our own staff will bring five or six cartons of our publications,
promotional material and information forms, some table sized
plants for centerpeices, three placards for displays on easels
to be provided by the Superintendant's office and one or two
people will have cameras.

Display, buffet tables, bar tables and a speaker's table and
a.podium with covers will be supplied by the Superintendant's
office, as will the chairs for the reception.

Food, set ups and potted palms will be supplied through Mr.
Hanif at the Senate catering office. A American flag and it's

stand will besmpplied by the Dole office.

Georgetown Liquors of 1564 Wisconsin Ave., N.W. will deliver
to the loading dock connected with the D Street tunnel the
chilled wine for the reception.

If you have questions, please call me at 337 2332.

Thank you.

John Gleiber
Assistant to the Officers

 




39...»: i0

55m 4HZH0mH> KZ<mAuZ

.mhu «mmHgH .MH ZHIHOHJ

 




DR. ALBERT SCHWEITZER AND THE SCHWEITZER MEDAL

This is the 27th presentation of the Albert Schweitzer Medal
since Dr. Schweitzer first gave his permission to strike the
medal in his name in 1954. "I would never have believed," he
wrote, "that my philosophy, which incorporates in our ethics
a compassionate attitude toward all creatures would be noted
and recognized in my lifetime. I knew this truth would
impose itself one day on human thought, but it is the great
and moving surprise of my life that I should still be able to

witness this progress of ethics.

"Your medal celebrates this progress; philosophy obliged to
intervene for animals when up till now it has shown so little

interest in them."

Later when asked to comment on legislation similar to

the Improved Standards for Laboratory Animals finally
achieved by Senator Dole whom we honor today, Dr. Schweitzer
wrote, "The ethic of Reverence for Life obliges us to be
watchful always to treat animals with compassion, and all the
more so when it concerns those creatures that serve medical

research. If you pass such a law in the United States, it

will have important meaning for the world. The law will then

gain recognition in other nations, too."

 




October 20,

Ms. Kay Luther

Office of Senator Dole

141 Hart Senate Office Building
Washington, D.C. 20510

Dear Kay,

Thank you for hﬁlping with the myriad details of
Schweitzer Medal gresentation to the Senator. It
a great help to know that we could rely upon you
the final plans fell into place.

I was glad to see you at the receytion and hope you

enjoyed yourself after all your hard work.
Sincerely,

Christine Stevena
President

 




October 20, 1986

Ms. Elaine Groneman

Office of the Euporintendant

G45 Qirksen Sonata Office Builéinq
Washington, D.C. 20510

Boar Elaine,
I think everything went very smoothly at the presentation

of the Schweitzor Meﬂal to Senator Dole, in large part
becauso of the efficient help you gave us.

I‘m sorry you were not present to see your good work, and

I do want to tell you how grateful we are.

Sincerely,

Christine Stevens,
President

 




Octcbcr 20, 1986

Mr. Hanif

Senate Catering Office

3221 Dirksan Senate Office Building
Washington, D.C. 20510

Dear Mr. Hanif,
I am very grateful for the efficient way you handled all
the catering arrangements far the reception for Sanatcr

Dole the other weaning.

The food waa excellent and was much appreciated by the
quests, not a morsal remained.

Thank you for your qooﬂ work ﬁnﬁ for your helpful staff.

Sincerely,

Christina Stevana,
President

 




V [7% . fff/W

.

M

gm-

U;

«3-,.
3

Ma?

‘14)“

 




14’”)

v.3» us

Dr. 111111
2 8 East
11w Yark

Dear

1.1m '“' ‘37 J 1111 yea ‘ 1111
11111 ' 33 ity L1111r 11;”

1 111111w-1111 11 r3--11&12€11111{
hand 01 1 111111 131. 1111 1 11 111 11
11111nt 111 1111311111 11 131 11 11111

legi111tion 11111 11113 1 ‘ ”
"11111111 1111 111 31131
r1311r113 111111: 111111111
11f11t1v1 11-31111 1101 0:
[3110111133 11112111“

copy of :13 11:1; 11A

1 111111111 11.

1:
2’1
53

Senator 3011 11 1 1 3

hﬂﬁmﬁﬁmzmtfum*”v: "‘ w w:13mm%3
0019:181111 w. 1. 13013313’ . *‘W: 11111 11 511111

Grains; 1313132 auprova‘m 3m: . -~_*‘--" '1” ‘31103’3” 1113111

1111m~ pmzﬁﬁﬂ1 11x £1111 gufwrw .1 13.1171

‘11101 1311111 311 11113111 11 133 T 1 111111 111

101: 111 111111 111 111r0:31311 »>- -“ 31131111113 1111u1~‘ 3.
111 LKcHIH1LLr”1ng 1111133 311 1‘1. -1‘91111 *1 1“”3131P1M3 111

110111111 13 1111111101 11 1111 2“3* 13; 131 333
r1111311111 113 11 11111111101‘ 1 ‘
13r111131311 131313y 11 11031 ;

1111111 11 1111 111“£nacii

w
a" :3 ‘

U
W

11111 in 111 13*w* . ; 5 , w, - 333 $30333
11111: 111011311 “¢'~‘_=E”w ’; 1111 11
‘ iaughter 13: “ ,~w . * H" ‘1‘1131
1111 111111 mmé~* 7‘51 ' “ "~:;* :1 1
11:11 1111 1.13111 11:. ' ‘ "
1 11111111111 “Ww ‘ ' . T~r'. ~v 4’: '“ 111

1111 11*1131 1

 




‘9

~

_I
,1

fl.“ 4.”
i; k}

If?“
{‘9

i

In?

‘1?
a!
W,

{if}

22}
m 3&3:

.r’t, '9'; «2».

”was A“ {

{my ‘13 LI»
." é , .
.. a:
unit»)!-

E;
a.

1:: m

.~’ 5
«a
‘2qu

.’~_

A.
«,L

7,“:
:
w

tiff; k" f

,1 .9 has
”,1 c
«Isak-v

gmgg

5“! .7 . . ‘
P 57% N3 f] '5 “ A
5‘:th A $5 Janka-‘1. kw

‘44!’

,g,__
a”. r3221

,

‘2
, é
Mai.

‘m ~19
“we ‘(F—

»
k“

x
” “v?
i «2’4. guh

 




‘Yt’zlking Points

Perkins Nomination
To S. Africa Post
Gets 12 Hearty Yeas

' By a unanimous and unbelievably
Speedy vote, the Senate Foreign
Relations Committee yesterday ap-
proved the nomination of Edward J.
Z'Perkins to be ambassador to South
.Africa.

,1 There was no debate as the com-
‘mittee voted 12 to O in favor of Per-
e‘ kins, a career diplomat who is am-
= bassador to Liberia.

" . The Senate is expected to ap-
’prove the nomination heartily if it
can get out from under the pre-

Election Day crush long enough for'

a ﬂoor vote, bringing to an end the
Reagan administration’s months-old
-v‘l'siearch for a black successor to de-
{parting Ambassador Herman Nick-
e1.

,. Foreign Relations Chairman

f.:"Richard G. Lugar (R—Ind.) said after

yesterday’s vote, “He goes to a role ‘

that perhaps is the most difficult
{one of his career.” “He’s a patriot to
undertake it, in my judgment.”

lir'f'See ‘Leader’ Run . . .V

{F or Senate Majority Leader Robert ‘

”J. Dole (R-Kan.), Oct. 14 promises
1. an unusual pat on the head: receipt
of the 27th Albert Schweitzer Med-
. al of the Animal Welfare Institute.
Citing “major federal legislation
“pgprotecting animals ' in laboratories,
4' animal dealers’ premises, zoos and
,;:_circuses, as well as in transit,” the
;_,,?group plans to laud Dole as a “cham-
jgpion of animals in need. ”

The group’s release notes that
‘~ . The Senate majority leader 18 reg-
ularly accompanied to his office by
11>; ‘Leader, a schnauzer picked out for
-. him at the Washington Humane So-
. 1ciety by his wife Elizabeth, secre-
tary of transportation.’

: Previous winners from the polit~
i"‘iC31 sphere include the late former
fii3’vifiéJe president and Sen. Hubert H.
‘yﬂumphrey (D-livﬁnn.) and former

" ,1 7x“?

 

EDWARD J. PERKIN
. . . no vetes against career diplomat

senator Warren G.‘ Magnuson (D-
Wash).

Open Question . . .

For the How’s-That-Again Dept.
comes a vignette from the Rehn-
quist court.

Lawyer David S. Golub, arguing
acase yesterday at the Supreme
Court for the Connecticut Repub-
lican Party, said the state did not
have the authority to prohibit the
party fromallowing independents to
vote in the party primary.

“Our rule is supportive of open,
participatory democracy,” Golub
argued.

“What’s so good about that?”
Chief Justice of the United States
William H. Rehnquist demanded.
“Other than its appeal,” he added,
after a moment’s pause.

Energetic Response . . .
Energy Secretary John S. Herring-
ton has told the department’s in-
spector general to investigate a nu-
clear weapons plant worker’s com-
plaint that he was fired for inform-
ing his superiors about drug abuse
on the job. ’
“DOE is not going to tolerate
drugs in the workplace, ” Herring-
ton to] “reporters Tuesday. “I will

'1/

not tolerate any vindictiveness

against a whistle-blower.”
Herrington’s announcement

came. a day after DOE’s leading

critic in the House, Rep. Edward J.

Markey (D-Mass.) said he intended
to investigate the firing of Roger D.
Wensil, who used to work for a
DOE subcontractor at the Savannah
River Plant in South Carolina. Wen-
sil says he was fired because he
blew the whistle on drug-abusing
coworkers. A DOE panel rejected
his complaint, but a Labor Depart-
ment investigator upheld it.

Herrington said the DOE had lim-
ited control over the Wensil situ-
ation because he worked for a sub-
contractor. “He’s out to lunch on
that one,” responded Wensil’s at-
torney, Stephen M. Kohn, who said
the law holds DOE responsible for
the behavior of its contractors.

Lunchtime Candor . . .
Most government managers lie low
these days as agencies are cut back
and budgets slashed. But Noel W.
Hinners, director of the Goddard
Space Flight Center in Greenbelt,
spoke for an hour yesterday at a
luncheon sponsored by the nonprof—
it Center for Excellence in Govern-
ment without rounding up the usual
mismanagement suspects: congres-
sional micromanagement, Office of
Management and Budget interfer-
ence, Office of Personnel Manage-
ment delays, excessive headquar-
ters bureaucracy or overregulation.
Instead Hinners, the senior cen-
ter director within the National
Aeronautics and Space Administra-
tion, talked about making long-term
plans for what Goddard could and
should do in NASA, for motivating
workers, for mitigating the stulti—
fying aspects of 10-year projects.
He even allowed as how he had pro-
posed a job rotation program that
was a ﬂop. How to explain this can-
dor? “I’m a volunteer in the federal
government,” Hinners said, “not a
draftee.”
—-Marjorie Williams
aged on staff reports and news services

/

 

 

 




 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE Po. Box 3650 Washington, DC. 20007

DALLAS PRATT, M.D.

PHYSICIAN, HUMANITARIAN AND AU'IHOR
The Schweitzer Medal will be presented to Senator Robert Dole
by Dr. Dallas Pratt. Winner of the Schweitzer medal in 1981,
Dr. Pratt is the author of Peinful Experiments en Animele and
Alternatives Le Pein in Experiments en Animals. Emphasized are
the replacement of laboratory animals by non—sentient materials,
refinement of methods where animals, at present, cannot be
replaced, and reduction in numbers of animals used. To
demonstrate their feasibility, alternatives are matched with

individual scientific reports from the published literature.

A graduate of Yale University and Columbia's College of Physicians
and Surgeons, Dr. Pratt was for many years Associate Psychiatrist
at Columbia University and St. Luke's Hospital, New York, and a
fellow of the American Psychiatric Association. Dr. Pratt is co—
founder of the famous American Museum at Bath, for which he

collects Americana.

Dr. Pratt's latest book, Animel Eilms fer ﬂumene Edueatien,
details the hundreds of films shown to audiences of animal
activists by Argus Archives, which Dr. Pratt heads. It will be
published by Argus Archives in the near future and promises to be
of great value to educators at all levels in advancing humane

education.

 




 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE Po Box 3650 Washington, no. 20007

DR. ALBERT SCHWEITZER AND THE SCHWEITZER MEDAL

This is the 27th presentation of the Albert Schweitzer Medal
since Dr. Schweitzer first gave his permission to strike the
medal in his name in 1954. "I would never have believed," he
wrote, "that my philos0phy, which incorporates in our ethics
a compassionate attitude toward all creatures would be noted
and recognized in my lifetime. I knew this truth would
impose itself one day on human thought, but it is the great
and moving surprise of my life that I should still be able to

witness this progress of ethics.

"Your medal celebrates this progress; philosophy obliged to
intervene for animals when up till now it has shown so little

interest in them."

Later when asked to comment on legislation similar to

the Improved Standards for Laboratory Animals finally
achieved by Senator Dole whom we honor today, Dr. Schweitzer
wrote, "The ethic of Reverence for Life obliges us to be
watchful always to treat animals with compassion, and all the
more so when it concerns those creatures that serve medical
research. If you pass such a law in the United States, it
will have important meaning for the world. The law will then

gain recognition in other nations, too."

 




 

 

 

Hon. Robert Dole
Majority Leader

0.5. Senate

Waehington, DLC. 20210

Dear Bob,

Your wonderful

triumph in enacting the Improved Standards for

Laboratory Animals Act aeserveé the greatest recognition in our

power to give:
InatitUte a

The Albert Schweitzer Medal of the Animal Welfare

We would like to arrange for a distinguished person to present

it to you at e
and friends of
immediately to
late afternoon
people to come
he thrilleﬂ to
great joy that

brief ceremony followed by a reception for members
AWI. If you would select a date, we'll proceed

iesee invitations. If it would fit your schedule,

in a SEnete Committee room would make it possible for
right after work. I know there are many who woula
attend. Letters from all over the country express
your bill has become the law of the land.

With deep appreciation.

Sincerely,

Christine Stevens
President

 

 




November 1. 1982

Senator Rabert Dole
Senate Office Building
‘Washington. 0.6. 20510

Dear Bab:

At the last meeting of the board of directors of the Animal’welfere
Institute we voted unanimously to invite you to receive this year‘s
.Albert Schweitzer Medal. we all admire and respect your major
legislative achievements and your current efforts to prevent
needless animal suffering and your outstandingly humane attitude.

It would be an.honor for the Animal welfare Institute to make the

award to you. and we hope you will accept.

Enclosed is a list of Schweitzer medalists and those who made the
presentations. Time and place would be decided in consultation
‘with your staff.

With kind regards.
Sincerely.

Christine Stevens
President

 




 

ANEMAL WELFARE INS?ETUTE PO. Box 3550 Washington, D.C. 20007

October 1, 1986 FOR MORE INFORMATION CDNTACT:
Cathy Liss
(202) 337-2332

EQB lMMEDIATE RELEASE

Senator Robert Dole will be awarded the
Schweitzer Medal of the Animal Welfare Institute
198 6 at 5:30 p. m., 9th floor of the? Hart Senate 0*
Building.

The major federal legi islation protecting animals

laboratories, animal dealers' premises, zoos, and circuses,

as well as in transitr was strengthened and broa ﬁe
Dole's leadership in 1970 and 1985. In l978 achiewed
Senate passage of effective humane slaughter legislation.

A long—standing champion of animals in need, the Senate
Majority Leader is regularly accompanied to his office Ry
"Leaéer," a schnauzer picked out for him at the ﬁashington
Humane Society by his wife Elizabeth, Se c:r Eta ry 0;
Transportation.

The first Albert Schweitzer Medal of the Animal Welfare
Ins stit ite was presented to Dr. Schweitzer himself it l954 by
Dr. Charles Joy at Oslo, Norway, where Dr“ Schweitzer had
gone to accept the Nobel Peace Prize. It has since been
awaroed for the most outstanoing contributions to animal

welfare. Previous medalists include Rachel Ce rson, 13% inert
Hum oh grey, Warren Magnusong and Russell Train.

Lr

 




 

ANEMAL WELFARE ENSTITUTE P.O. Box 3650 Washington, DC. 20007

DALLAS PRATT, M.D.

PHYSICIAN, HUMANITARIAN AND AUTHOR
The Schweitzer Medal will be presented to Senator Robert Dole
by Dr. Dallas Pratt. Winner of the Schweitzer medal in 1981,
Dr. Pratt is the author of Painful Experiments on Animals and
Alternatiygﬁ to Pain in Experime t on Animals. Emphasized are
the replacement of laboratory animals by non—sentient materials,
refinement of methods where animals, at present, cannot be
replaced, and reduction in numbers of animals used. To
demonstrate their feasibility, alternatives are matched with

individual scientific reports from the published literature.

A graduate of Yale University and Columbia's College of Physicians
and Surgeons, Dr. Pratt was for many years Associate Psychiatrist
at Columbia University and St. Luke‘s Hospital, New York, and a
fellow of the American Psychiatric Association. Dr. Pratt is co—
founder of the famous American Museum at Bath, for which he

collects Americana.

Dr. Pratt's latest book, Animal Eilms for humans Education,

details the hundreds of films shown to audiences of animal

activists by Argus Archives, which Dr. Pratt heads. It will be
published by Argus Archives in the near future and promises to be
of great value to educators at all levels in advancing humane

education.

 




 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE Po. Box 3650 Washington, 0.020007

DR. ALBERT SCHWEITZER AND THE SCHWEITZER ﬂDAL

This is the 27th presentation of the Albert Schweitzer Medal
since Dr. Schweitzer first gave his permission to strike the
medal in his name in 1954. "I would never have believed," he
wrote, "that my philosophy, which incorporates in our ethics
a compassionate attitude toward all creatures would be noted
and recognized in my lifetime. I knew this truth would
impose itself one day on human thought, but it is the great
and moving surprise of my life that I should still be able to

witness this progress of ethics.

"Your medal celebrates this progress; philosophy obliged to

intervene for animals when up till now it has shown so little

interest in them."

Later when asked to comment on legislation similar to

the Improved Standards for Laboratory Animals finally
achieved by Senator Dole whom we-honor today, Dr. Schweitzer
wrote, "The ethic of Reverence for Life obliges us to be
watchful always to treat animals with compassion, and all the
more so when it concerns those creatures that serve medical
research. If you pass such a law in the United States, it
will have important meaning for the world. The law will then

gain recognition in other nations, too."

 




1686 ~ 34th Street, N. W.
Washington, D. C. 20007

February 4, 1986

Mr. J. J. Della Porta
11820 W. Dixie Highway
North Miami, Florida 33161

Dear Mr. Della Ports:

Thank you for your letter of January 28th. We are delighted to
learn that you are researching the life and works of Gustav
Bohland.

We have ”Briney Bliss,” a sea elephant carved from lignum vitae,
a beautiful piece: and later Gus carved two pups which, though
separate, form a group. He also did a bull sea eleohant, but I
do not know its whereabouts.

The Albert Schweitzer Medal of the Animal Welfare Institute was
sculpted by Gus, and I enclose a photograph of it for your
information. I have the plaster of Paris cast of the obverse.

He also did a relief of my father which was cast and is on his
grave in Alma, Wisconsin. I have the plaster of Paris relief
of this work also.

As you probably know, Gus destroyed a considerable number of his
works at one point when he felt they were not being appreciated.

I don't know whether Eileen is still alive, and if you have any
news of her, I would certainly be grateful. Letters that I have
written to her in recent years have gone unanswered.

I wish you well in your search for Gus’s works.

Sincerely,

Enclosure

 




11820 N. Dixie Highway
N. Miami, Florida 33161
January 28, 1986

Mr. & Mrs. Stevens
1686 34th Street NW
Washington, DC 20007

Dear Mr. & Mrs. Stevens:

Mrs. Crane of Miami, who was a close friend of the Bohlands,
suggested I write you this letter.

I am endeavoring to research the life and works of Gustave
Bohland, who I understand was a long time friend of yours.

In particular, I am trying to find the location of his
established works.

If you will be so kind, and if you have any information, can
you supply me with the locations of any of his works -—-
perhaps private collections, museums, -—- or wherever.

I am enclosing a self-addressed, stamped envelope for your
convenience.

Thanking you in this matter,

I remain»

,...-’..a°“ x
9’5; _, 1,

‘J. J. Della Porta

JJDP/dal
Encl.

 




 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE P.O. Box 3650 Washington, D.C. 20007

October 1, 1986 FOR MORE INFORMATION CONTACT:
Cathy Liss
(202) 337—2332

EOE IMMEDIATE RELEASE

Senator Robert Dole will be awarded the 27th Albert
Schweitzer Medal of the Animal Welfare Institute October 14,
1986 at 5:30 p.m., 9th floor of the Hart Senate Office
Building.

The major federal legislation protecting animals in
laboratories, animal dealers' premises, zoos, and circuses,
as well as in transit, was strengthened and broadened through
Dole's leadership in 1970 and 1985. In 1978 he achieved
Senate passage of effective humane slaughter legislation.

A long-standing champion of animals in need, the Senate
Majority Leader is regularly accompanied to his office by
"Leader," a schnauzer picked out for him at the Washington
Humane Society by his wife Elizabeth, Secretary of
Transportation.

The first Albert Schweitzer Medal of the Animal Welfare
Institute was presented to Dr. Schweitzer himself in 1954 by
Dr. Charles Joy at Oslo, Norway, where Dr. Schweitzer had
gone to accept the Nobel Peace Prize. It has since been
awarded for the most outstanding contributions to animal

welfare. Previous medalists include Rachel Carson, Hubert
Humphrey, Warren Magnuson, and Russell Train.

 




 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE PO. Box 3650 Washington, DC. 20007

October 1, 1986 FOR MORE INFORMATION CONTACT:
Cathy Liss
(202) 337-2332

EQB IMMEDIAIE RELEASE

Senator Robert Dole will be awarded the 27th Albert
Schweitzer Medal of the Animal Welfare Institute October 14,
1986 at 5:30 p.m., 9th floor of the Hart Senate Office
Building.

The major federal legislation protecting animals in
laboratories, animal dealers' premises, zoos, and circuses,
as well as in transit, was strengthened and broadened through
Dole's leadership in 1970 and 1985. In 1978 he achieved
Senate passage of effective humane slaughter legislation.

A long-standing champion of animals in need, the Senate
Majority Leader is regularly accompanied to his office by
"Leader," a schnauzer picked out for him at the Washington
Humane Society by his wife Elizabeth, Secretary of
Transportation.

The first Albert Schweitzer Medal of the Animal Welfare
Institute was presented to Dr. Schweitzer himself in 1954 by
Dr. Charles Joy at Oslo, Norway, where Dr. Schweitzer had
gone to accept the Nobel Peace Prize. It has since been
awarded for the most outstanding contributions to animal

welfare. Previous medalists include Rachel Carson, Hubert
Humphrey, Warren Magnuson, and Russell Train.

 




 

 

 

 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE P.O. Box 3650 Washington, D.C. 20007

    

October 1, 1986 FOR MORE INFORMATION (DNTACT:
Cathy Liss
(202) 337-2332

EQB IMMEDIAIE RELEASE

Senator Robert Dole will be awarded the 27th Albert
Schweitzer Medal of the Animal Welfare Institute October 14,
1986 at 5:30 p.m., 9th floor of the Hart Senate Office
Building.

The major federal legislation protecting animals in
laboratories, animal dealers' premises, zoos, and circuses,
as well as in transit, was strengthened and broadened through
Dole's leadership in 1970 and 1985. In 1978 he achieved
Senate passage of effective humane slaughter legislation.

A long-standing champion of animals in need, the Senate
Majority Leader is regularly accompanied to his office by
"Leader," a sdhnauzer picked out for him at the Washington
Humane Society by his wife Elizabeth, Secretary of
Transportation.

The first Albert Schweitzer Medal of the Animal Welfare
Institute was presented to Dr. Schweitzer himself in 1954 by
Dr. Charles Joy at Oslo, NOrway, where Dr. Schweitzer had
gone to accept the Nobel Peace Prize. It has since been
awarded for the most outstanding contributions to animal

welfare. Previous medalists include Rachel Carson, Hubert
Humphrey, Warren Magnuson, and Russell Train.




 

 

ANIMAL WELFARE {INSTITUTE PO. Box 3650 Washington, DC. 20007

October 1, 1986 FOR MORE INFORMATION CONTACI‘:
Cathy Liss
(202) 337-2332

EQB IMMEDIAIE RELEASE

Senator Robert Dole will be awarded the 27th Albert
Schweitzer Medal of the Animal Welfare Institute October 14,
1986 at 5:30 p.m., 9th floor of the Hart Senate Office
Building.

The major federal legislation protecting animals in
laboratories, animal dealers' premises, zoos, and circuses,
as well as in transit, was strengthened and broadened through
Dole's leadership in 1970 and 1985. In 1978 he achieved
Senate passage of effective humane slaughter legislation.

A long-standing champion of animals in need, the Senate
Majority Leader is regularly accompanied to his office by
"Leader," a schnauzer picked out for him at the Washington
Humane Society by his wife Elizabeth, Secretary of
Transportation.

The first Albert Schweitzer Medal of the Animal Welfare
Institute was presented to Dr. Schweitzer himself in 1954 by
Dr. Charles Joy at Oslo, NOrway, where Dr. Schweitzer had
gone to accept the Nobel Peace Prize. It has since been
awarded for the most outstanding contributions to animal

welfare. Previous medalists include Rachel Carson, Hubert
Humphrey, Warren Magnuson, and Russell Train.

 




{i
if
January ?; 1988

Hong Elizabeth Bole
799 ﬂew Hﬁmpghire Avanueg
waghington, D.C. 28837

ﬂea: Elizabeth;

Congratulatians on your appaintment to be Sacret&ry cf Labar!
1 am ﬂelighteﬁ that you will hold thig impariant gagtf amﬁ i
am confiéent that you will £0 a S§1enﬁiﬁ jebg

It was a great §leasure to converge with yam an lunch gt tha
City Taverm: and I lack farwarﬁ ta coniinuing Gut
conﬂéﬁvation as you suggeste§ we shoulﬁ am when you call me.
It was gaod ta meet your neghewr teag

Eager and I are just back frcm Lamaen. we bath Wiﬁh you amé
Bob a very happy ﬂew Year.

Sincerely;

Christine Stevgng
Pre$ident

 




ELIZABETH HANFORD DOLE
WASHINGTON

January 13, 1989

Ms. Christine Stevens
President

Animal Welfare Institute
Post Office Box 3650
Washington, D.C. 20007

Dear Christine:

I was so pleased to receive your thoughtful letter recently. It
warms my heart to know that I have your continued good friendship
as I face the challenges of my new role as Secretary of Labor.

I look forward to a very active agenda at the Department of Labor
and feel there are many opportunities to make a real difference for
people through this new challenge.

Again, my deep thanks for your friendship and words of support.
Best wishes for a very happy and successful new year.

Affectionately,

Eliza h Dole

 




THE WHITE HOUSE

WASHINGTON

January 26, 1983

Dear Christine:

It was so good to hear from you and I appreciate so much
your message of congratulations. I certainly look forward

to my new challenges and am grateful for your kind expres-
sion of support.

Again, my thanks for your thoughtfulness and your warm
friendship.

With all best wishes,

Sincerely,

Assistant to the President
for Public Liaison

Mrs. Roger Stevens
1686 34th Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20007

 




 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE P.O. Box 3650 Washington, DC. 20007

For Immediate Release
November 30, 1987

Jane Goodall, one of the world's leading primatologists

and a legendary figure to the public, will be presented with

the Albert Schweitzer Medal by Senator John Melcher (D, MT)
on Wednesday evening, December 2.

The award has been made by the Washington-based Animal
Welfare Institute for outstanding achievements in the
protection of animals, since 1954. The ceremony will take
place at 5:30 p.m. in Room 216 in the Senate Hart Office
Building and will be followed by an informal reception.

Dr. Goodall is being honored for her leadership in the
understanding of the species most closely related to our own,
the chimpanzee, and for her effective advocacy of humane
treatment of primates as individuals.

Senator Melcher is the only veterinarian in the 0.3.
Senate. Long an advocate of humane treatment of animals, he
was the principal proponent of the amendment to the Animal
Welfare Act requiring Space adequate to promote the
psychological well-being of laboratory primates.

Author of the best selling book, "In the Shadow of Man”,
and producer of Animal gghayigr in the celebrated National
Geographic television series, Dr. Goodall has earned
worldwide plaudits for her most recent book, the monumental
"The Chimpanzees of Gombe".

Her 17 May 1987 New 10:3 Times Magazine article, "A Plea
for the Chimps" calls for humane treatment of laboratory
chimpanzees.

The first Albert Schweitzer Medal of the Animal Welfare
Institute was presented to Dr. Schweitzer himself by Dr.
Charles Joy at Oslo, Norway, where Dr. Schweitzer had gone to
accept the Nobel Peace Prize. Previous medalists include
Rachel Carson, Hubert Humphrey, Warren Magnuson, Russell
Train and Robert Dole.

For further information contact John Gleiber or Cathy Liss
Animal Welfare Institute
(202) 337-2332

#30#

 




 

AN [MAL . WELFARE INSTITUTE P.O. Box 3650 Washington, D.C. 20007

For Immediate Release
November 30, 1987

Jane Goodall, one of the world's leading primatologists
and a legendary figure to the public, will be presented with
the Albert Schweitzer Medal by Senator John Melcher (D, MT)
on Wednesday evening, December 2.

The award has been made by the Washington-based Animal
Welfare Institute for outstanding achievements in the
protection of animals, since 1954. The ceremony will take
place at 5:30 p.m. in Room 216 in the Senate Hart Office
Building and will be followed by an informal reception.

Dr. Goodall is being honored for her leadership in the
understanding of the species most closely related to our own,
the chimpanzee, and for her effective advocacy of humane
treatment of primates as individuals.

Senator Melcher is the only veterinarian in the U.S.
Senate. Long an advocate of humane treatment of animals, he
was the principal proponent of the amendment to the Animal
Welfare Act requiring space adequate to promote the
psychological well-being of laboratory primates.

Author of the best selling book, "In the Shadow of Man",
and producer of Animal Behayior in the celebrated National
Geographic television series, Dr. Goodall has earned
worldwide plaudits for her most recent book, the monumental
"The Chimpanzees of Gombe".

Her 17 May 1987 New York Times Magazine article, "A Plea
for the Chimps" calls for humane treatment of laboratory
chimpanzees.

The first Albert Schweitzer Medal of the Animal Welfare
Institute was presented to Dr. Schweitzer himself by Dr.
Charles Joy at Oslo, Norway, where Dr. Schweitzer had gone to
accept the Nobel Peace Prize. Previous medalists include
Rachel Carson, Hubert Humphrey, warren Magnuson, Russell
Train and Robert Dole.

For further information contact John Gleiber or Cathy Liss

Animal Welfare Institute
(202) 337-2332

 




 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE P.O. Box 3650 Washington, DC. 20007

November 20, 1987

Dear Members and Friends,

On December second, world famous primatologist and
humanitarian, Jane Goodall, will receive the Albert
Schweitzer Medal of the Animal welfare Institute from the
hand of Senator John Melcher of Montana. Senator Melcher is
the author of the provision for psychological well-being of
primates in the Improved Standards for Laboratory Animals
Amendments to the Animal welfare Act.

You are cordially invited to attend this important ceremony
to be held in conjunction with the annual meeting of the
Animal Welfare Institute. The medal will be presented
following a report on AWI's activities for the year. A
reception will follow in the beautiful and spacious hearing
room.

Time: 5:00 to 7:00 p.m., December 2, 1987

Place: Room 216 Hart Senate Office Building
Washington, DC
(Use the Visitor's Entrance on Second
street between Constitution Avenue
and C Street, N.E.)

You are welcome to bring a friend or relative with you to
meet Dr. Goodall and Senator Melcher. If you could drop me a
note or post card or, if more convenient, call us at 202—337-
2332 to say you'll be coming, we'll have a name badge ready
for you and your friend at the door.

I look forward very much to seeing you on December second.
Best wishes,
Sincerely,

(22%.; 32:...

Christine Stevens
President

 




5“ .3"
”AN
El and

, {;.$.,

.r'g.‘ ”‘3'.
1‘ ‘ .
.é

a i

g .

r ‘

‘ ,'&
L *‘5’
3’4,

we .9.» M

i
:1
s

l. -'
a4;

‘99. 1‘.“-
4A..:':. ‘3.-

:26

éfj‘.‘ F1:
\u 5-13

' é

- ‘ "g
. .- ..,‘
kﬁ‘hﬁ.

”A

3

e

#
.3.

iv

lud

4a.}: ,1, . ' Egan é

a I
,u
L1,:
yr?“

7"”
3-3;} , L ‘ Fwy-e1
1 ‘ . , *k

"m (*7 n~:~4>
- év433§
'4 , b‘ )4”

i}

w.“

"e‘
i
“'2

gnﬂl.
I ‘.
f‘st.
inn"
3» i
l '3
In”:

11w

«3, aim;—
c
0; s
3.2,; {get

"u-
,vn-r,
{3.A
,-

nan

 




Public Affairs Division
1771 N Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 200936

December 3, 1987

Mrs. Roger Stevens
1686 34th Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20007

Dear Mrs. Stevens,

Thank you for inviting me to the presentation of the
Schweitzer Medal to Jane Goodall. I was fascinated by what
Ms. Goodall had to say and I was impressed by the dedication
of the other speakers to the cause of wildlife.

If the Medicis helped translate the genius of their
time by stimulating the creation of libraries, great architec—
ture and remarkable art, perhaps the legacy of our period will
be a world consciousness of the need to preserve the planet.

The large crowd did not permit me to congratulate
Ms. Goodall and to salute you; I do it now.

With best regards,

 




