Junior Series, No. 6.
Tze’em‘y-fz'ft/z Thousand.

THE CRUELTY OF SHOOTING.

BY
CANON s. N. snornrrcrg,

Author of [n A/Taz‘zzrcls‘ LVzuzs‘w-y, Dame Airtime”: 56/5001, etc.

c. m,»

(1716,1'7‘lg/z}. ARTHUR R. '1 i{<).\il’so.\:.
HERE was a pheasant on my lawn last winter. He had a
lovely bronze—green head and feathers of dark green on his
neck, which changed to purple when the light caught them and a.
little tuft of short feathers at the back of his head like a king’s
plume. As for the rest of his royal robes, it would take all the rest
of this paper to describe them-—but their colours were buff, black,
red-maroon, orange-red, purplish—blue and other lovely shades in
patterns.

But he could not walk nor hop, for one thigh was broken and the
other leg hurt, so that he could only get about by short clumsy jumps
on to his breast, which must have hurt him horribly. He had been
hatched under a hen, and brought up with other babies until they
were as tame as chickens in a farmyard, and when he was full-grown,
and all his lovely plumage and gay colours were at their best and
brightest, he had been shot for fun. Lots of others of his companions
had been killed outright, no doubt, but he had only been wounded,
and if he did not die of his wounds, he would soon starve to death.

Thousands and thousands of pheasants are thus reared‘every year
just to be killed for “sport,” and the people who shoot them are
not cruel hard-hearted folk at all; only it has never occurred to them
that these lovely creatures were never intended to be made targets
of in this way. Yet, I am certain that if you had seen that poor bird
on my lawn, with all his glorious plumage draggled and battered and
blood-stained, and his eyes dim with pain and fear, you would have
thought—“Surely, it can’t be right to kill such creatures for fun'.”

 




I was one of six brothers and sisters, and that was enough to
make a very warlike “tribe” when we were young. We were all
very fond of “pets,” too, and we had the usual rabbits and guinea—
pigs, dog, cat and canary, to which, I remember, we were always
kind; but that did not prevent us from getting weapons of different
sorts and going out into the ﬁelds and woods to kill for fun." I
believe our ﬁrst weapons were springy sticks or canes split at the
top so as to hold a stone. Still more deadly was the catapult stage.
You could carry a catapult in your pocket easily, and some of the
“tribe” got dreadfully expert—I remember going, like Red Indians,
on both sides of a little stream after water-rats, and alas, there was
once a red squirrel. Harold shot it, and though he showed it to the
rest of us with pride, I still feel the ache inside, and he felt it too,
when we stroked its soft, limp, warm body. Ordinarily, we should
have taken it home to show father, but somehow we did not like to.
We buried it under an oak tree before we started back for home.

And then came the last of those boyhood’s “killing for fun”
adventures. Three or four of us were at school, and one Easter
holiday, Stanley came home with a real pistol and some cartridges.
On the earliest possible occasion, the whisper went round—“Let’s
go and kill something.” Who could resist the temptation, when
there was a real bright, shining, single-barrelled pistol, with real
bullets, ready to hand? In a copse, half-an-hour’s walk from the
house, was a thrush singing for all it was worth on a low branch.
Stanley motioned to us to keep still. He crept on a few steps, stood
still, raised the pistol. Bang!

Yes, he killed it—for fun—by a lucky shot. It would never
sing again. Its head waggled, and blood oozed from its mouth. Its
lovely speckled breast heaved once or twice, and its wings gave a
little quiver. That was all. It would never sing again, and, I
expect, it had a mate which was probably sitting on eggs close by.
I have never forgotten that dead thrush, and I think I never hear
one singing in the Spring without recalling it for a second.

We were only boys, and we meant no harm. They were exciting
adventures to go out with weapons and kill something. But, looking
back now, I know it was just ignorant cruelty.

Nowadays, when I hear the guns going off round my house in
the woods and meadows and know what is happening, I feel that
such sport is in reality equally cruel and I wonder there is not some
better way of enjoying God’s fresh air and lovely country than in
killing for fun. -..__..._..___

Other “ Junior Series ’ ’ Leaflez‘s :

(1) What do Young People think about hunting Animals ?
(2) Hunting the Fox to Death.

(3) The Gentle Deer and the Gentle Men.

(4) The Coursing of ﬂares and Rabbits.

(5) Is Otter Hunting Fair Sport?

NATICl . , .
l ' “Eﬂllybaiiﬂbﬂlllilm.
4 thswraméen, W-C—J'. «
AﬁWMuRaMbBﬁuoﬁmaws
80. MOBLEY 3TREET,
MANCHESTER

 

 

 

 

 




