THE UTILITY OF

THE BARN OWL

Photo: Miss Frances Pitt All rights reserved

By W. A. EDWARDS

Hon. Local Secretary for Liverpool,
The Royal Society for the Protection of Birds.

THE ROYAL SOCIETY FOR THE PROTECTION OF BIRDS
82, VICTORIA STREET, LONDON, S.W.1

 




 

 




N"

The Utility of Owls

HOSE who have closely observed the habits of Owls in

their natural haunts know that much unnatural history has

been written concerning them. It may at once be said that
Owls do not mope, neither are they melancholy, and it is quite
unfair to sum up the character of these birds as a result‘ of
accidentally coming acrcss them surprised in the full light of day.
Although they may then be seen blinking and nodding, it is
through the long night when everything else is hushed and still,
that Owls go seriously about their work. They may well be
described as lynx-eyed cats with wings, and the beneﬁt they
confer on the farmer by destroying countless numbers of rats,
mice, and voles, cannot possibly be overestimated.

Of the various species of Owls, there are four more or less
common throughout the country, namely, the Barn Owl, Tawny
Owl, Long—eared Owl and the Short-eared Owl. The Barn Owl
is also known as the Screech Owl because of its rasping, piercing
shriek. It becomes almost domestic in its habits if left undis—
turbed, and will cruise around the rickyard or the homestead in
search of its prey. The favourite haunt of the Barn Owl is a
dark barn where corn or newly threshed straw is stored and
which, needless to say, is visited by rats and mice. There, on
some lofty rafter, perfectly motionless, stands the farmer’s truest
friend. It may appear to be fast asleep, but it really sleeps with
one eye or one ear open. If there is the slightest rustle in the
straw below, the feathered night watcher is in a moment, all eye,
all ear, and as the mouse or rat shows itself, the Owl without a
single movement of its wings pounces on its prey. The Barn Owl
is a resolute enemy of the ﬁeld mouse, and in this connection it
may be stated that in all parts of the country ﬁeld mice are
responsible for enormous loss and damage. They frequent woods,
hedges and gardens and devastate wheat ﬁelds. They actually
cut through the stems of corn to get at the ear, of which they
will nibble a few grains and scatter the remainder uneaten. In
order to obtain food, ﬁeld mice will root up newly-sown seed and
gnaw young shoots that are just appearing. They also strip off
the bark of shrubs and trees, and even destroy young plantations
during their periodical visitations. During one period of three

 




 

months, one hundred thousand ﬁeld mice were killed in the New
Forest. In bygone times, the utility of the Barn Owl was
recognised by builders of barns, who always left an opening at
one end under the roof—generally in the gable—known as the
“ Owl’s Window” as an entrance for the birds to keep down
the rats and mice. ' ‘

It is worthy of notice that Owls have the habit of disgorging,
by way of the mouth, indigestible particles of food in the form of
pellets, and when these are examined it is possible to determine
on what the bird has been feeding. Dr. W. E. Co-llinge, in
referring to the utility of the Barn Owl, states :—“ The enormous
percentage of mice and voles destroyed at once draws attention
to the beneﬁt that this bird confers on the farmer, and even if
there is any truth in the charges .which have been brought against
it in recent years of occasionally taking young game birds, the
percentage of any such food is inﬁnitesimal when compared with
the remainder. It has frequently been pointed out that when the
Barn Owl is abroad seeking its food, all young game birds are
safe beneath their mothers’ wings.” Lord Lilford writes of a
half-grown Owl eating nine mice in rapid succession, and being
hungry again in three hours, and also a pair of Owls which
brought food to their nest seventeen times in half an hour. What
was once thought to be the most conclusive evidence against the
Barn Owl was completely demonstrated, on further examination,
to. be the clearest evidence in its favour. It has long been known
that this bird sometimes selects a dovecote for its habitation,
and the wholesale destruction of young pigeons was put down to
it. It was, however, found that when that great lover of birds,
Charles Waterton, succeeded in excluding rats from the dovecote,
there was no further massacre of pigeons. His success was due
to the fact that he encouraged a pair of Barn Owls to make use
of the dovecote, where the Owls and pigeons lived together as
members of one happy family.

The Tawny Owl is perhaps the best known of the Owls, and it
is as widely dispersed over England as the Barn Owl. It is also
known as the Wood Owl or Hooter, and during the bright moon-
light nights it may be seen in the forest glades ﬂying to and fro
between its nest and the mice-infested ﬁelds. Of all the sounds
at night, few can awaken deeper emotions or make stronger
impressions on the memory than the ‘wild and penetrating cry of

7“" ﬂ




N-

the Tawny Owl. This bird is greatly persecuted by gamekeepers
in the belief that it is destructive ‘to young game, a belief not
founded on fact, as may be proved by the examination of the
pellets cast up of the indigestible portions of the food. This
species exists chiefly on mice and rats and the larger insects, and
it may be said that a pair of Tawny Owls have been seen to carry
twenty—seven rats and mice to- their young‘during a single summer
evening. Yet this is the bird which most gamekeepers, in their
mistaken zeal, shoot and trap. A young pheasant or rabbit may
be occasionally taken, but the harm thus caused is surely nothing
in comparison to the amount of good work done by this most
useful species.

With regard to the Long-eared Owl and the Short-eared Owl,
these species are distributed over the whole of the British Islands.
Both species have little tufts of feathers on the top of their heads
which they can raise or depress at pleasure and which look like
ears or horns.

The Long-eared Owl is in the strictest sense of the word a
“ Woodlander.” It passes the day-time in the shade of dense ﬁr
woods, sitting on the base of the branches, close against the trunk
when it becomes a very inconspicuous object, due to the close
resemblance of its mottled plumage and the general colouring of
the bark. In the summer nights, this bird may be heard in-
cessantly repeating its prolonged groaning cry which may be
heard a long way off. In the daylight, in the presence of man
and other birds, it has an astonished and comical expression. It
clatters its beak, tramples with its feet, and also nods its great
head up and down with sudden movements, or turns it from side
to side. Its habits much resemble those of the Tawny Owl, and
it lives particularly on mice.

The Short-eared Owl differs somewhat in its habits from the
other Owls found in Great Britain. It is a bird of passage, and
as it appears along with the Woodcock in the autumn and dis-
appears with it in the spring, this species is often called the
’Woodcock Owl.

The invaluable service rendered by the Short-eared Owl in the
destruction of voles is worthy of record. The ﬁeld vole is a little
creature about the size of. a ﬁeld mouse, with a blunt round muzzle,
short ears, and a short hairy tail. When it is present in great

 




 

numbers, the vole' is one of the most formidable enemies of
agriculture. It ravages the cornﬁelds, and cuts through the stems
of corn to nibble the ear. After the harvest it attacks the roots
of clover and carrots, potatoes and other vegetables. In winter
it burrows into the furrows to eat the seed. If the ground is
frozen hard, so that it cannot reach the buried grain, it retires to
the stacks of corn, in which it commits terrible depredations.
Needless to say this pest is responsible for great loss and damage
in many parts of the country, but it is the tremendous havoc
wrought repeatedly in the Lowlands of Scotland which has
attracted most attention. Whole plantations of young trees are
destroyed, while young grasses are nibbled through or poisoned
over hundreds of square miles of pasture. It has been abundantly
testiﬁed that the most potent factor in. the limitation of the mischief
done by voles was the advent of the short—eared Owl. On the
other hand, the severity of vole plagues has been attributed to the
wholesale destruction of short—eared Owls by gamekeepers who
thus destroyed one of the greatest and most effective enemies of
the ﬁeld vole. It may be mentioned that when there was a great
plague of mice in the Forest of Dean, short-eared Owls were
attracted there in great numbers and very materially assisted in
destroying the pest.

The Departmental Committee appointed in 1892 by the Board
of Agriculture to inquire into a plague of ﬁeld voles in the South
of Scotland eloquently testiﬁed to the utility of Owls. In their
report the Committee state that “ it was with much satisfaction
that they were able to record that many land—owners and game—
keepers had become convinced in late years that Owls of all sorts
are not only harmless to game, but most beneﬁcial to- agricul-
turists, and had issued orders for their preservation.“ In spite
of this valuable testimony and also that of many competent and
. unprejudiced observers, it is a matter of regret that too often the
Owl is shot down Or trapped by thoughtless farmers or ignorant
gamekeepers, who foolishly imagine that they are getting rid of a
pest although, in reality, they are taking the life of one of their
most valuable friends.

The consideration of the subject of the utility of Owls would
not be complete without some brief reference being made to the
rat menace in this country. Until quite recently it was customary
for rats in quiet country districts to rear their young on outlying

j‘r-fW—‘um >w,

 

 




 

farms which afforded both food and shelter, but as a result of the
widespread campaign against them a great change has taken
place. It has been found that rat proof buildings, restrictions as
to harbouring rats, in addition to other efforts to get rid of them
from buildings have compelled the rats to search for new quarters
in woods and ﬁelds, and this may prove a very difﬁcult problem
for the farmer and gamekeeper in the future. It must be realised
that rats increase at a phenomenal rate, and although various
measures have been taken to reduce their numbers, they still
remain a very serious menace. It is stated that in 1909 alone,
Two Million Pounds were spent in providing rat-catching or rat-
killing apparatus.

In view of the fact that our British Owls are playing an
increasingly active part as a national asset in the campaign against
rats—apart from their invaluable services in the destruction of
mice and voles—it is of the highest importance that they should
be afforded the utmost possible protection.

Broadcast from Liverpool by Mr. W. A. Edwards, and pub-

lished by permission of the British Broadcasting Company.

 

LEAFLET NO. 83. May be obtained from the Royal Society for

the Protection of Birds, 82, Victoria Street, London, S.VV.1.
1d. each; one dozen, post free, ls.

 




THE ROYAL SOCIETY FOR THE PROTECTION OF BIRDS

Founded February, 1889. Incorporated under Royal Charter, November, 1904.

Presidentr HER GRACE T1114 DUCI‘IESS OF PORTLAND.
Chairman of Council: SIR MONTAGUE SHARPE, K.C., I).I..
Hon. Treasurer: THE RIGHT HON. EARL BUXTON, G.C.M.(}.
Hon. Secretary: FRANK E. LEMON, ESQ., M.A., LL.B., J.I’., (LA.
Secretary: MISS L. GARDINER.

London Office: 82 Victoria Street, S.W.1

SOME PUBLICATIONS OF THE SOCIETY.

The A BAC of Common Birds. A pocket guide to the commonest
Inland Birds, with short and simple descriptions, local names,

and brief notes on their food in its relation to agriculture.
Price 6d.; by post 7d.

The National Importance of Wild Birds. By WALTER E.
COLLINGE, D.Sc., F.L.S. Reprinted from the National
Review. Price 2d. each; ls. 9d. per dozen.

Birds, Insects and Crops. Supplied free to Agriculturists,
Allotment-holders, Schools, etc. 200th thousand.

Our Ally the Bird. Illustrated. Price 2d. each; Is. 6d. per dozen.

Game Preservation and the Protection of Birds. By FRANK
BONNETT. Price 1d.

Birds: and the Way to Avernus. Reprinted from The Nineteenth
Century and After. By Miss L. GARDINER. Price 6d.

Acts and Orders, with full text of the Bird Protection Acts. By
FRANK E. LEMON, M.A., LL.B., C.A. Price 6d.

Bird Law Rhymes. A summary of the Wild Birds Protection
Acts 1880-1928 in verse. Price 2d.

 

Printed by JOHN ROBERTS PRESS LIMITED, 14 Clerkenwell Green, London, E.C.i~ A

 




