 

 

Book Reviews

 

 

‘Do other men for they would do you.
That’ S the true business precept ’

Just Business:
New Introductory Essays in

Business Ethics
Ed. Tom Regan

72:11pm Univ. 363p $299

In the scholarly world no cottage industry
boasts a better growth record in recent
years than applied ethics. Long neglected
by philosophers who sought excitement in
stratospheric metaethics, the study of
business and professional morality now
promises to become a distinct subdiscipline
in its own right. One reason for its
popularity is that people responsible for
decisions relating to such value-laden issues
as preferential hiring or employee privacy
ﬁnd the moral freight difﬁcult to weigh and ‘
to carry. Not being Plato’s philosopher
kings, administrators search for some little
princes to stabilize their shaky thrones.
The princes live mainly in the groves of
academe, and their help issometimes unin-
spiring. Now comes Torn Regan, professor
of philosophy at North Carolina State,
“ith a collection of readings that are at
once fresh, innovative and fairly well inte-.
grated. He makes clear his own position:

Moral reasoning cannot allow feelings to °

trespass on, judgments or suprarational ar-
guments to invade rational ones/Having
made plain his position to readers, Regan,

in a more daring move, makes equally plain .

his demands on collaborators. The merits

A merica/May 5, 1984

of their essays are to be judged on how well
they answer four questions: Are ethical

\ concepts correctly analyzed? Are relevant

facts adequately reported? Are the rules of
logic scrupulously observed? Are moral
claims and counterclaims impartially bal-
anced? The essayists answer their editor’s
questions quite effectively.

In a perceptive anal ISlS of environmental
ethics, Hoimes Ralstor . 3 d combines enough
folksy commonsense and scholarly acumen
to make the entire book worthwhile. Fol-
lowing some basic maxims, he contends,
allows business to fulﬁll its economic role
while simultaneously honoring its responsi-

' bility toward nature. Why special priority

should be given to things rarer, more fra-

gile or more beautifur is answered by one

overarching maxim: Business must be a

 

THIS WEEK’S REVIEWERS

Clarence Walton IS the Charles Lamont l’ost
Distinguished Professor at the American
College, Bryn Mawr, Pa., a teaching-re-
search institution established to work in the
ﬁeld of life insurance and financial services.

NicholasS. Rashford, S.J., is dean of the'
School of Management at Rockhurst College
in Kansas City, Mo. -

J .A. Panuska, S.J., is president of the Uni-
versity of Scranton, Pa.

Frank J. MacEntee, S.J., teaches compara-
tive anatomy at the University of Scranton,‘
Pa.

 

—Charles Dickens

good neighbor to everything, animate and
inanimate.

Other essays deserve comment. George
Sher’s treatment of preferential hiring
represents a nuanced defense of the propo-
sition that while quota systems are inher-
ently unethical, “extra-credits” (giving ad-
ditional points in qualifying examinations
or additional time for seniority ratings) are
acceptable when they restore the competi-
tive position a job applicant would have
had in the absence of wrongdoing.

Kurt Baier and ‘P erhane ex-
amine the rights-duty coin. Baier parsi-
moniously demonstrates how obligations
arise and how duties cannot be based exclu-
sively on contracts. Werhang, focusing less
on the natural or “indefeasiblef’ rights that
interest Baier, concludes that the real prob-
lem revolves around defeasible rights ac-
quired through contract; she holds that em-
ployee rights to free speech, privacy and
due process must be guaranteed.

Shue’s essay on transnationals notes the
different meanings assigned to “equal pay
for equal work.” To some, it means the
same pay for the same work; to others it
means pay that provides standards of living
equivalent to those of employees in the
home country. But Shue argues that justice

is really served when transnational em-

ployees are paid salaries that enable them
to live as well, relative to other members of
their society, as the corporation’s workers
of the industrial world are able to live rela-

 




I"

Kurt Baier, David Braybrooke,
Alan Goldman, Kenneth E. Goodpaster,
Tibor Maehan, Holmes Rolston III,

' Sehwartz,George Sher,
331112: Shue, Patricia Werhane

F

Books of Related Interest ‘_
Tom Regan,.Matters of Life and Death (32114)
Tom Regan, Earthbound (33268)

394—32979—1
Random House, Inc.
201 East 50th Street
New York, NY. 10022

(29:
S
E?
. :r
O
Q.
Q
G
H
2
<<
til
m
g
‘<
V.
E.
w
s:
E.
:5
(D
m
m
['11
FF
E'.
0
Ct:

SSElNISflEI .LSIH

ueBeH wQL Kq paupa

‘———

JUST BUSINESS

New Introductory
Essays in Business Ethics

Edited by Tom Regan

 




tive to members of their society. David
Braybrooke extends the analysis of justice
by focusing on its basic components and
applying them to speciﬁc instances;

In treating advertising, Alan Goldman
notes that some critics demand the truth,
the whole truth and nothing else. But what
is truth? Only a morOn, notes Goldman,
would conclude from Coke’s claim that the
drink adds life and sparkle that it is an
aphrodisiac or fertility drug. Advertisers
honor ethics, therefore, by adhering to
practices that enable consumers to make
rational choices.

Kenneth has been giving
sound ethical guidance to business for
some time, and he maintains the high quali-
ty of his previous works in an essay on cor-
porate responsibility. Goodpaster feels that
since organizations are moral agents it is a
mistaken view to deﬁne business ethics on-
ly in terms of individual action.

So far, a fair consistency marks the es-
says. When Tibor Machan argues that
regulations inevitably invade our natural
rights to life, liberty and property, Adina
Schwartz counters that if industrial democ-
racy and job enrichment are to be achieved,
more regulation, not less, is needed. Unfor-
tunately, Schwartz rests her case on the du—
bious premise that a neo-Lochner mentality
is abroad in the land. The 1905 Lochner de-
cision, it may be recalled, nulliﬁed New
York State’s prohibition of work weeks
over 60 hours. But evidence to demonstrate
the existence of such a mindset _is so scanty
that one senses the presence of a straw
man. Her argument could have been

mounted on surer grounds. ..
There are some general weaknesses.

Terms—deﬁned, redeﬁned and then rede-

ﬁned again—parade before us like soldiers _

trudging in uniforms with too many linings
sewn in by too many tailors. And the omis-
sions are substantial. Truth-telling is largely
restricted to advertising practices; age dis-
crimination, management compensation
practices, board responsibilities, pressure
tactics, purchasing problems are either not

mentioned or treated very brieﬂy. The .

omissions provide grounds for Professor
Regan to give us another good collection
soon. CLARENCE WALTON

 

Proﬁts Without Production

By Seymour Melman
Knopf. 344p $18.95

The No most signiﬁcant issues facing the

344

industrial sector of America during the

next 10 years are the effect the deﬁcit
spending of the American Government will
have on the economy and the success
American industry will have in determining
its future earning capability. While the de-
ﬁcit is a pressing issue, Melman’s book
makes clear that underneath that roaring
lion is an adder waiting to strike: our loss of
productivity.

Dr. Melman, a professor at Columbia
University, has been a student of the conse-
quences of proﬁts without production
since his own graduate work in 1948. He is
an astute observer of the American scene
with some deep insights into the conse-
quences of the behavior of American man-
agement. Melman’s book elaborates on the
consequences of what happens when the

goose that lays the gOIden egg is sold—or "

moved. He explains how American indus-
try has decapitalized itself, sending its capi-
tal abroad for new production facilities,
closing down jobs in the United States for
the American worker, opening them up in
foreign countries and relishing proﬁts that
are born of tax credits from capital and

equipment sold in the United States.
The three major points in his work are as

follows: First, American business schools

have taught the United States manager to
be preoccupied with earnings and proﬁt-
ability. not productivity and the develop-
ment of equity capital. Second, the worst
offender for cost. overruns and loss of pro-
ductivity is military spending. Compound-
ing deﬁcit spending, much of these monies
is directed to defense, which is, in
Melman’s research, the least productive
sector. Third, while we have already grown
lax in the stewardship of American indus-
try’s productive capacity, we may well
reach a point in which this trend cannot be
reversed. Melman’s issues are of the utmost

importance to the executive considering a

plant closing, to the young manager desir-

_ ing growth in responsibility or to the aver-

age American making investment decisions
in corporate America. -

' The hidden culprit Melman addresses is
aloss of productivity. He feels that Ameri-
can industry has eroded to a point from
which we may not recover. We have ex-
ported our capital abroad. We have failed
to renew our physical plant and facilities.
We have added administrative people
through the use of data processing well be-
yond any productive return. to contributed
output. We have had the grossest negli-
gence in the areas associated with military

and defense spending where there has be :n
no discernible measure of productivity. 1 ill
of these have occurred in the face of 'n-
creased and continuing proﬁtability. 1 in
example in point is the recent closure of 19
units in the US. Steel Company. F; ve
thousand current jobs were terminated a 1d
10,000 people on layoff were told that the re
would be no future return to work. T 1e
Wall Street response to this‘announcemt nt
was an increase in the price of US St :el
stock.

The origin of this malaise is of interest to
Melman." In the developoment of war ma— .
terials during the early 1940’s American in-
dustry shifted to a wartime mentality. Tiie

‘ urgency of the situation necessitated the in-

crease in output with little or no regard for
cost. This shift during World War II was
never reversed when the business schools in
the United States were established as the
training and proving ground for you 1g
management talent. Eclipsed by a burgec n-
ing technology that masked the heavy ero-
sion of productivity in the basic industr'es
of steel, auto production and househcld
goods, this condition has endured for the
past 40 years. But we have found recently
that in the high technology area of compu-
ters and stereo and video equipment tare
same trend is taking place, and American
products are losing to foreign companies.

For generations the Roman Catholic
Church has taught the value of the work-er
and his job. Now that many of 11:11:21-
herents are moving into management rartits
what has happened to these basic sOcia'l
concerns? Mainline Protestantism las
taught its adherents to be stewards and to
engage in stewardship. Where, in *‘he
managerial ranks, are the stewards of ' we
most valued of goods: productivity 3 1d
capital?

One is engaged by this book to ask wl at
American corporate ﬁnancial stateme' its
would look like if they separated inco ne
generated from productive goods and s :r-.
vices from incomes earned from nonp o-
ductive sources (tax rebates, foreign c: 1r-
rency exchange, earned interest). T 1is
would make it possible to evaluate the en :r-
gy and resources expended in the best n-

- terests of the company and the count y.

Without this knowledge and people 1d?
dressing this key concern, America will be

.in trouble. This is not a time to become 1 .a-
' tionalistic in a world community, but i‘ is

also not the time to fail to develop our p o-
ductive capacity as a nation.
NICHOLAS S. RASHFO‘: LD

America/ May 5, [5’84

 




U!» L:

Iv‘v‘VI/W '

Board of Associates’ Luncheon
(, (7 " Panel Discussion of “Business Ethics”

Participants: Professor Tom Regan, Chair, Dept of Philosophy & Religion, North Carolina State
University; Professor Christine Sistare, Director, Muhlenberg College Center for Ethics & Leadershi '
Mr. Gary Shorts, CEO, The Mominq Call; Mr. Samuel Stein, Muhlenberg College junior.

{DO/«cry
Some Questions for Reflection: pl

ls morality In business different fro morality in [the rest of] life? If so, hmg is it different?

94%: How Is it possible to have more than one morality? £4 QrIW ,6 c4,“

PIJ/ L- Ml «fa-
Is my role as a business person a special role, analogous toJ/ my role as parent, friend, or

Eggpz? Winessr person ’s role fully analogous to other kinds of professional roles:
(S doctor teach ,.etc?
NW Y”

a . we do lbusiness In ways that would be wrong according to our non- role morality? What [‘0

Jams-[.35 th Wufgnt J tion fosdoinga tw otherwise regar a3 erﬂ"

ow can or do people___ learn to be m ral in business? Is the pr cess different from learngg

ral In life? CC/C J W
ase Sketches: ng‘to/éf

. W
a. Ford PInto Case: Manufacturer’s management knew f dangerous feature of car design.
They chose to retain that feature and accept the risk of a specific number of deaths, maimings,
and non-fatal burnings, rather than to replace a defective part at an approximate cost of $5 per
car. Company records revealed that this decision was entirely based on cost-benefit analysis.

 

 

b. E. F. Hutton Case: Hutton pled guilty to 2, 000 mail and wire fraud violations, including
unauthorized overdrafts from banks with \which Hutton had accounts, tampering with
microencoding on checks to create delays in processing, check kiting to creditors, and so on
The acts were partly aimed at improving Hutton’ s financial profile.

c. Film Recovery Systems Case: Three executives of a silver-recovery processing plant were
convicted of the murder [by reckless endangerment] of an employee. The conviction was
based in part on the knowing exposure of employees to open cyanide vats in violation of basic
safety principles. All the employees were non-natiVe speakers; none could read the safety
warnings on the sides of the vats. When one became ill, all were assured by the managers
that the workplace was safe.

d. Polartec Case: Following a disastrous fire in its plant in a small New England town, the
company’s owner promised to rebuild in the same location and provided supplemental workers’
assistance to all employees during the rebuilding period. The owner explained this decision in
terms of his and the company’s indebtedness to the town and in terms of the dependency of
the town on the company’s presence.

e. Tylenol Case: The Johnson & Johnson pharmaceutical company voluntarily recalled all its
Tylenol products when several people in one location died from [criminally] altered pills. The
perpetrator was not associated with the company in any way. Subsequently, the company led
the industry in devising tamper-proof packaging and product forms.

Sag/mix of: EM A19

 




