I
/
L’

/

A PLEA FOR 'l‘llE HELPLESS.

//

)

EXTRACT FROM AN ADDRESS BEFORE A COMMITTEE
OF THE MASSACHUSETTS LEGTSLATDRE,
MARCH H, .2901.

BY ELIZABETH STUART PHELPS WARD.

In this late and merciful year of our Lord, the
great Healer of Suffering, the world has learned. some things,
has gained a few points which it will not let go. One nf
these is the elementary value of human mercy. It is one of
the powerful angels. With a ﬂaming sword it guards the
temple of civilization, and he who has abused the instinct of
tenderness goes not in thereat. But bear in mind that mercy
wears no mask. She has not two faces. Mercy cmmot mean
barbarity to animals for the sake of kindness to man. It
ceases to be mercy for any end when it becomes barbarity of
any kind. Man has no right to any profit which he gains at
the expense of tortured animals—I do not say of swiftly,
mercifully slain animals, or of uncomfortable animals, but of
tortured animals. We need no more hesitate to set this
dewn as one of the axioms of the discussion than to admit
the Golden Rule to be the basis of Christian statecraft. How
many men and women are there in this room whose hearts
refuse to stir to the words of Robert Browning, when he said,
a few years before his death:

“But this I know, I would rather submit to the worst of
the deaths, so far as pain goes, than have a single cat or dog
tortured under the pretense of saving me a twinge or two.”

Whose soul does not thrill with Tennyson’s when he sang
of a surgeon thus immortalized to scorn : '

1 .

l

 

 




 

“ He was happier using the knife than in trying to save the
limb. . . .

I could think he was one of those who would break their jests
on the dead.

Or mangle the living dog that had loved him, and fawned at
his knee, '

Drench’d with the hellish oorali
be i”

It was the Bishop of Manchester— honor to him ! — who
said that he “would rather die a hundred times than save his
life by such infernal experiments."

It was a distinguished Harvard professor of surgery who

 

that ever such things should

asserted :
“Better that I or- my friend should die than protract exist-
ence through accumulated . . . torture upon animals

whose exquisite suffering we cannot fail to infer.”

It was our own Phillips Brooks who wrote (and we love
him for it, dead, as we revered him, living, for everything else
that was noble and'fearless) :

“ Theology has driven timid souls into exquisite agony with
its cold dissection of the most sacred feelings, and medicine
has tortured sensitive animals by vivisection with a reckless-
ness which has no relation, direct or indirect, to human good.”

We might include a dark ﬁgure in a shining group, and add
the admission of the remorseful and repentant vivisector, once
assistant to the terrible Claude Bernard, who confessed:

“ I have witnessed many harsh sights, but the saddest sight

ever witnessed was the expression on the faces of the dogs
When theywere brought up from the cellar to the laboratory
for sacriﬁce."

We hear too much, in this matter, of the phrase, “Two
sides." The words are impossible as applied to painful and
irresponsible vivisection. Yesterday, to day and forever, it
remains true that there are some things which have 7202‘ two
sides. There may no two sides to the fundamental concepts of
morality. There are? no two sides to the elemental precepts
of humanity; There ((272 be no two sides to our'view of the
nature or conduct of a man who throws one hundred and
twenty-h ve dogs twenty-ﬁve feet out of a window to see how

2

 




many of their bones will break, and then lets them linger in
the agonies of hell to see how long they will live; nor of a
. man who will freeze or boil a dog to see what its temperature
may be ; nor of a man who will vivisect the quivering nerves
out of a sentient and unanaesthetized Cat to exhibit before his
classes the skill of his pitiless hand; nor of a man who will
starve guinea-pigs or roast rabbits to death to prove—God
knows what !—— unless that they will die. It is 720i “an open
question ” whether a man should, in the words of the witness, \
“ subject a poor old worn-out horse ” to torments which I can- '
not describe, even if you could listen. Only an audience

limited tovivisectors could bear tohear what the horse endured. g
There are 7202‘ two sides from which to estimate a man who , l, .
will fasten in the torture-trough the noblest animal God ever . i
made ; an animal only a little lower than mankind -— an animal
at his best so superior to the vivisector whose hand he tries,
out of the piteous impulse of his generous and noble heart, to
kiss, in death — that, gentlemen, I would rather [2.1: that dog,
than his inquisitor. It is on record that a dog undergoing a
shocking vivisection of the vertebral nerves twice escaped the
knife, and, struggling up in his agony, put his arms around his

 

vivisector’s neck to plead for mercy ; and that he pray-ed in
vain. .

Not for any glory, or honor, or treasure that this world
could bestow; not for any hope, or comfort, or joy that any
world could offer, would I be that man. Would you?

The Creator of souls knows where lies the subtle, wavering
lines which separates the quality of the human from that of
the animal spirit. I doubt if you orI do. It may—who can
say P—it may run, not in parallels, but transversely across
races.

Cardinal Manning has nobly said :

“ Nothing can justify ——no claim of science, no conjectural
result, no hope for discovery, such horrors as these. .
Whereas, these torments, refined and indescribable, are cer-
tain, . . . everything about the result is uncertain, but
the certain infraction of the first laws of mercy and human

9)

ity. . ,1 ,1
”/17. ,4//

U

 




Let us remember that what Lord Shaftesbury has called
“the insolence of physiological science ” has in it perils
peculiarly important to a republic, and especially deserving
the attention of our legislatures. Why should a doctor or a
professor behallowed to torture a dog or cat for five weeks,
when we arrest, ﬁne or imprison a teamster in the street for
beating his horse for ﬁve minutes? We have laws for the
protection of animals from cruelty. But, gentlemen, they do
not reach the professor or the doctor. Give us something
that will !

Whetheror where such cruelty occurs in our own State, you
will never know unless you give yourself the chance to know.
Any class of law-breakers in the Commonwealth would like,
if they could get it, the astonishing immunities offered to the
torture-chambers of our laboratories. The State claims the
right to enter any den of darkest Boston. No public resort
of woe or shame is secure from the eye and hand of the law.
No private house on whose lintel the accusation of cruelty rests,
can bar its doors to the feet of Justice. Vivisection, at its best,
is an accused defendant. It has been arraigned in many lands,
and condemned in some. At its best, it exists under suspicion.
At its worst, it is a shame to the civilization of a Christian
State. It can never stand before the world, remember, with-
out fear and without reproacl. It is a practice with a lost
character. its reputation was irrevocably blackened long be-
fore your petitioners turned their tardy eyes upon it. Treat
it, gentlemen, at the very least, as you do other suspicious or
doubtful practices. At least, enforce the screen laws on it.
Tear away the veil, unbar the doors, and give the facts to the
sunlight. If, indeed, it does not sicken and refuse to shine
upon them —~— see to it that it never shall.

A gifted woman of our own land has summed the whole
question in less than twenty words, when she says :

“Vivisection is only possible because the world —— so merci-
ful, but so careless——~ cannot endure to learn what vivisection
means.”

 

Published by THE AMERItL-XN HUMANE ASSOCIATION.
Price 8 cents per dozen, 40 cents per hundred, postage paid.
Address: 126 RrDGE STREET, PROVIDENCE, R. l.

 




