 

 

 

 

 

 

A Fri/1M a y, 194]

THE

ANIMALS

 

 

 

Photo by] “ W796)” friemlx meet, [warty war/72.” [P- Phillips

THE NATIONAL COUNCIL FOR ANIMALS’ WELFARE
52, QUEEN’S AVENUE, IWUSW’ELL HILL, LONDON, N.Io.
Subscription for 0716 Y ear, pofl free; 3/6

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND is pablisbed inontbb/ by tbe National Coanoil for Aniinals’ Welfare
at Qaeen’e Lodge, 32, Qaeen’: Aoenae, Main/ell Hill, London, N .10, and all 6‘0‘777772ﬂﬂli6‘dft0ﬂ5
regarding tbe magazine sboald be addrerred to tbe Editor.

Editor: ROBERT H. SPURRIER.

 

 

Vol. XLVII. April—May, 1941 No. 6.
C O N T E N T S.
Page Page
ANIMALS IN THE NEw ORDER. Part II. A NOTEWORTHY BOOK . . . . 92
Tbe Editor . . . . . . 84 .
. ADVENTURES AMONG ANIMALS. Harper
A LAKELAND PAIR OF DIPPERS. Catberzne Cory F.C.G.S. . 93
M. Clark . . . . . . . 86 3 .
INDESTRUCTIBLE. Tereea Hoole} . . 87 CHﬁRLES TENNYSON‘TURNEE B452]
, army/Janie: . 94
NATURE 8 LONG CREDITS. D. jeﬂrey
[172]]de .v . . _ . . . 88 THE FAIRFIELD REFUGE . . . 95
OUR DUMB FRIENDS’ LEAGUE. E, K5275 SCOTTISH SOCIETY FOR PREVENTION OF
ROleSO” . . . . ' . 89 VIVISECTION . . . . . 96
FROM ONLOOKER’S NOTE-BOOK. Onlooléer 90 LEAGUE FOR PROHIBITION OF CRUEL
NATIONAL SOCIETY FOR ABOLITION OF SPORTS - - - ' - - 97
CRUEL SPORTS . . . . . 91 CORRESPONDENCE . . . . . 98

 

 

Humanitarianism—Jts Scientific Basis.

“ Now the general conception of Evolution provides
the humanitarian with a scientiﬁc basis, because it
establishes the fundamental equality of all living things.
It makes the killing of an animal murder in exactly the
same sense as the killing of a man is murder. It is
sometimes necessary to kill men as it is always necessary
to kill tigers ; but the old theoretic distinction between
the two acts has been obliterated by Evolution. When
I was a child and was told that our dog and our parrot,
with whom I was on intimate terms, were not creatures
like myself, but were brutal whilst I was reasonable,
I not only did not believe it, but quite consciously and
intellectually formed the Opinion that the distinction
was false ; so that afterwards, when Darwin’s views
were first unfolded to me, I promptly said that I had
found out all that for myself before I was ten years Old ;
and I am far from sure that my youthful arrogance was
not justiﬁed; for this sense of the kinship of all forms
of life is all that is needed to make Evolution not only a
conceivable theory, but an inspiring one. . . . Our
vanity, and our snobbish conception of Godhead as
being, like earthly kingship, a supreme class distinction
instead of the rock on which Equality is built, had led
us to insist on God offering us special terms by placing
us apart from and above all the rest of his creatures.
Evolution took that conceit out of us. . . .”——
G. BERNARD SHAW in Preface to “ Back to Methuselah.”

“ All God ’5 creatures are His family, and be if ' nioet
beloved of God wbo trietb to do tbe most good to God’s
ereatares.”——KORAN.

The Spirit of Freedom.

The press which recently announced that the Aga
Khan’s son, Aly Khan, having resigned his French
commission in the Syrian Army, was ﬂying to Cairo to
join the Egyptian Forces, related at the same time the
following incident:

Aly Khan is fond of blackbirds and parrots but
never keeps birds in captivity. A devout merchant
from Kenya once presented him with a pair of parrots.

Aly Khan thanked the merchant and started talking
about the Koran. As he talked he let loose the parrots,
which ﬂew out of the window. “ Isn’t it lovely to see
them ﬂy? ” asked Aly Khan. “ Don’t you agree? ”

The merchant looked bewildered. As he left,
he murmured : “ Now I understand the Prophet’s
sermon on the spirit of freedom.”

“ Tbere is no beat on eartb nor bird inbiob flietb wit/J it.~
wing: bat tbe Janie it a people like anto yon, we bane not
omitted anytbing in tbe Book of oar deereer; tben anto tbeir
Lord yball tbeyl retarn.”——KORAN. .

Literary.

AUTHORS invited to submit MSS. of all
types (especially ﬁction and poems) to London
publishers of 45 years’ standing. Advice free.
STOCKWELL, LTD., Elms Court, .Ilfracombe.
(Duration address.)

82

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

'eA-v‘ rm~.-msmm

AprilrMay, 1941

Notes and Comments

Animals’ Welfare Week, 194I—May 4th-
11th.

Notwithstanding the
increasing difﬁculties
imposed by war con-
ditions, Animals’ Wel-
fare Week will be
observed this year as
usual under the
auspices of the National
Council for Animals’
Welfare with the co-
operation of the mem-
bers of many other
animal societies. The
ofﬁcial date is May
4th—I 1th, the ﬁrst
complete week in May,
but in some districts,
where an earlier or
later date is more con—
venient or because of other considerations, arrangements
have been made to meet this need. Public meetings
will, of course, not be held at all generally, if at all, but
the work in the schools will be carried on and there has
again been a great demand for literature for circulation
in the schools by Educational Authorities and Teachers
—several authorities making application this year for
the ﬁrst time in the history of the Week. There is also
a growing demand for the loan of ﬁlms on Animal Life
and Wild Life Ways for exhibition in the schools, which
the Council is doing its utmost to supply.

Applications for speakers in the schools have been
received from several districts, including Rochdale and
Southampton, of all places, undeterred by the blitzkrieg
from carrying on its civilising educational work. The
speakers for the Week include Mrs. Yvonne Stott,
Miss D. Barrs, Mr. E. Keith Robinson and Mr. Robert
H. Spurrier. Mrs. Stott has already carried out a full
programme in the schools in and around Newport,
Salop—a programme arranged by Miss Borough, the
Hon. Secretary of the N.C.A.W., who has carried on
the work here for many years past and arranged for
essays to be written in the schools.

 

Essay and Poster Competition.

One of the features associated with the observance of
the Week is the Essay and Poster Competition. Sub-
scribers to THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND have had the oppor-
tunity during the past year of judging for themselves
the value of this branch of the Council’s humane
educational work by a consideration of the quality of
a number of the 1940 essays which have been printed
in our columns. This year three new subjects have
been introduced and three of those on last year’s list
retained, making a choice of six in all. The three new
themes are :—~

I. Do tbe wild creatures of the jungles and forests,
fields and woods, live a life of terror or are tbeir lives
for tbe most part bappy and carefree?

2. Is tbere co-operation and mutual aid amongst wild
animals and birds?

3. Give an account of a day in tbe life of a wild
animal?

83

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

The three subjects retained, which were in last year’s
list, are 2——

I. Do animals tbink. and feel ? If you tbink tbey do,
22%} do you tbink so?

2. Wbat is tbe Balance of Nature?
disturbed and wbat are tbe consequences?

3. Wbicb would you prefer to be and Mgr—a wild
animal at bome or a captive animal in a zoo or circus ?

A list of books and leaﬂets recommended for study
on the subjects of the Essays may be obtained by
sending a request for the list, together with a stamped
addressed envelope, to the Secretary, N.C.A.W.,
32, Queens Avenue, Muswell Hill, London, N.Io.

How is it

Animal Protectors’ Alphabet.

Readers of this magazine who enjoy the monthly
Notebook page contributed by “ Onlooker ” (Charles
A. Westacott) will be glad to know of this Alphabet
which he has compiled and published in pamphlet
form. In it, under every one of the twenty-six letters
(without missing either X or Z), he introduces under
some half-dozen or so words of biographical data a
quotation of humanitarian quality from some distin-
guished personality.

The Alphabet starts with George Arliss and concludes
with Israel Zangwill. In between among the others
come Emerson and Hardy, St. Francis and Gandhi,
Henry Irving and George Bernard Shaw, Richard
Martin and John Woolman, Mark Twain, Evelyn
Underhill and John Ruskin. The quotation from
Emerson reads :

Hart tbou named all tbe birds witbout a gun,
.LOI/é’d tbe wood-rose, and left it on its stalk?

The Alphabet is issued by the \Ylorld League for
Vivisection, 47, Hamilton Place, Highbury, London,
N.5, at the price of 3d.

“ Animal Drawing.”

A new and revised edition of this publication by
John Skeaping has just been issued by the Studio
Publications, Ltd., of London and New York, at
103. 6d. net. “ The best preparatory step in learning
to draw is—to draw. Study is of no use unless it is
accompanied by intense pleasure to the student.”
These words, by the author, give a clue to his approach
to the subject of the book, in which he explains in its
several chapters (which include sections on Principles,
Rhythm, Texture, the Use of Colour and The Attitude
of Mind) his own methods. This he does with the
object of providing the student with the necessary data
to enable him to discover himself and to follow the
road to his own goal intelligently and by the most
direct route. The work is fully illustrated with
examples of the author’s work in methods of expression,
comparison-s of gait, of bone structure and of move-
ment, with drawings from the Altamina Caves, and
examples of the Mogul School, Persian XVI century
and African Bushman Drawings. There are many
animal studies in black and white and in colour.

“The Animals’ Friend.”

Owing to war-time and other difﬁculties in preparation
and production, this issue of THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND
is a combined April—May issue, enlarged to 20 pages.
We hope to have the June issue in the hands of our
subscribers early in June and to make that and the one
for July also an enlarged issue. R. H. S.

 




 

 

 

TI—IE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

Apn'lvMay, 194i

' Animals in the New Order

BY THE EDITOR.

Part II.

N commenting, in the .ﬂrst instalment of
this article, on the indifference of many
supporters of the animal welfare movement

to certain aspects of animal exploitation, we‘

had in mind, among other manifestations of
this indifference, this lack of understanding of
the real nature of the movement and of the
issues at stake, the incongruous appearance of
people, sitting either on the platform or in the
body of the hall, at meetings called to protest
against cruelty to animals, swathed almost
from head to foot in the skins of animals.
Now these skins could have been obtained
only by the trapping of the animals from whom
they were ravaged or riﬂed from fur—farmed
animals. And trapping, as we all know, or
should know for there is no excuse for ignor-
ance on the subject, .may involve prolonged
and acute suffering to the victim which it is
no exaggeration to term “ torture ” ; but there
are, in our opinion, as grave if not graver
objections to fur—farming. For while trapping
is an uncivilised form of cruelty which may
inﬂict intolerable suffering on the trapped
animal for a greater or lesser amount of time,
the victim has at any rate some months or
years of life in freedom in which to follow his
natural instincts to the top of his bent. The
fur—farmed animals, on the other hand, no
matter how well they may be cared for and fed,
no matter how carefully they may be handled
and killed, are bred only for captivity and
death; the free exercise of their natural
instincts is denied them; few, if any, of the
joys of animal life are theirs; it is a life of
frustration to the individual, and, eventually,
the species, from the point of view of intelligent
development, emotional experience and physi—
cal ﬁtness, must deteriorate, however much the
weight and quality of the pelt may increase.
In contrast to trapping, fur-farming is a reﬁne-
ment of cruelty.

Another instance of this indifference is to be
found in the fact that the number of those
within the movement, who are so seriously con—
cerned at the degradation and suffering inﬂicted
on animals in connection with the breeding,
transport and slaughter of animals for food
that they adopt a non-ﬂesh diet, is compara—
tively small. This fact was strikingly illus—

trated at the great meeting held in the Queens’
Hall, London, in 1922, to inaugurate Animals’
Welfare Week. At this meeting Mr. Bernard
Shaw was one of the distinguished speakers
and salvoes of applause from all parts of the
crowded hall greeted his condemnation of the
performing animal racket, of vivisection and of
other forms of abuse of animal life. When,
however, he came to the question of the use
of animals for food and to advocate a vege—
tarian diet only a thin stream of applause
greeted his remarks. “Ah,” exclaimed Mr.
Shaw, “ I thought I should have you there.”
We well remember the occasion and the
contrast.

Yet this practice, perhaps more than any
other, is the most far—reaching and insidious
of all forms of abuse of animal life by reason of
its effects in conditioning the minds of most of
us from early years to the idea of animals not
as living, sentient, developing creatures in—
formed by a moving, feeling, growing life like
to our own, with their own lives to live, their
own ends to fulfil, their own happiness to
seek, but as means to human ends whose life
and liberty and happiness may be forfeit at any
moment to human desire or caprice or profit.
It is this, perhaps, more than any other, seeing
that the vast majority of us are inured to the
practice from early childhood and do not there—
fOre regard the taking of animal life as murder
or anything other than normal usage, that is
responsible for this conditioning. It is from
this as the starting point in practice that we
come to regard these sentient fellow beings as
creatures whose homes may be devastated,
whose young may be kidnapped, whose bodies
may be captured and enslaved for the purpose
of our entertainment and so—called education,
who may be turned into more or less mechan—
ised units for the production of meat or milk
or eggs. From this conditioning one may
readily come to consider them (without any
recognition of moral deficiency, callous con-
duct or lack of social sanity on our) part, as
creatures who may be injected with loathsome
disease and subject to painful experimentation
in the search for human health, who may be
hunted to exhaustion in sport and “ broken
up ” when captured, and who may be con-

34-

 




 

 

A priﬂMay, I94]

sidered as “ vermin ” and “pests” and, as
such, cruelly exterminated when we, by our
ignorance or disregard of the laws of Nature
and of God, have caused them to multiply
beyond the normal.

In other words, we believe this practice to
be the prime factor in inducing and perpetuating
the “wrong idea” of animal life, that idea
which has been summed up in “ Matters that
Matter ” by Dame Henrietta Barnett in the
following passage :—

“ The mental attitude of the majority of people
can be summed up thus : ‘ This animal is whole-
some to eat; this other carries disease to us ; this
one makes lively sport or good soup, or gives
pleasure, or is amusing, or nice to look at, or is
strong for porterage, or in various ways aids .or
pleases mankind.’ But the creatures’ right to
live, enjoy, and, if they so desire, to develop, is
rarely thought of.”

Consider, too, how this practice of the
breeding and slaughter of animals for food is
used, among other abuses, to justify the
practice of painful experimentation on living
animals in the search for human health or even
for “ mere curiosity.” It has been described
by Henry S. Salt as :—

“. . . the ﬂower and consummation of
barbarity and injustice—the m plus ultra of iniquity
in man’s dealing with the lower animals—in that
the special horror of this practice consists precisely
in this fact, that it is not due to mere thoughtless-
ness and ignorance, but represents a deliberate,
avowed, conscientious, invasion of the principle
of animals’ rights.”

 

Photo by]

Mother and Son by Kyles of Bute.

85

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

In this invasion of principle physiologists,
within premises specially licensed for the
purpose, and under licence and certiﬁcate, are
allowed to perform experiments which inﬂict
severe" suffering“”'on‘ animals for which they
would be subject to prosecution for cruelty to
animals under the common law of the land,
were they not so protected. They are allowed
to inject and infect animals with toxins and
drugs which, to quote from the ﬁndings of the
Report of the Royal Commission on Vivi-
section published in I912—and here are the
words of the Commissioners— '

“ must in some cases, at any rate, be productive
of great pain and much suffering.”

It is indeed strange that this practice should
be supported and condoned as it is by members
of societies that exist for the express purpose of
the prevention of cruelty to animals—a
practice which is a direct invasion of the
principle of the rights of animals,the prohibition
of which is excused in the Report referred to
above on the ground that :—

“ at the present time the average moral sense
of Christian communities is not offended by the
sacriﬁce of lower animals for the food, clothing,
adornment and, within limits, the sport of man.”

Please note that the use of animals for
“ food ” is placed ﬁrst in order in the Com—
missioners’ list.

(To be concluded.)

[Paul ]. Pease-

 




 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

Aprt'laMay, 1'94]

A Lakeland Pair of Dippers

By CATHERINE M. CLARK.

Parent bird pus/yer [Jar bead inside the next.

Young greeting tbez‘r parent with open beaks.

 

 

86

F I had but one day for bird-watching in

the Lake District I should spend it beside

a mountain stream within sight of the nest
of a dipper. The white throat and chest of
this rotund little bird, bobbing and bowing
on a prominent stone in mid—stream, draws the
attention of a bird-lover and seems con-
spicuous ; yet the pair of clippers shown in the
accompanying photographs passed unnoticed
and their nest unseen by countless sightseers
who came to view a famous waterfall not
thirty yards distant. ‘

Dippers usually build beneath a shady bank ; 7
or under a bridge in a cranny between rough—
hewn blocks of stone; or on a jutting rock
behind a waterfall. Here the atmosphere is
kept an even temperature at a season when cold
nights alternate with warm spring days. This
seems most important to the young, for the
heat they generate spontaneously is great within
their closely-woven waterproof nest; and if
the sun’s rays fall upon it they hang out their
heads with bills agape, panting for the cool air
which cannot enter the small front opening of
their wren—like nest.

’ In the nest depicted the young suffered
severely from this heat, but only once a day
and then for less than an hour; their mis-
fortune in this respect was my good luck, for it
gave me sufficient light to photograph their
restless, quick-moving parents. This nest was
charmingly placed above a mossy, small ﬂat
stone, whereon the clippers stood each time
they fed their offspring ; a happy chance, for as
a rule they ﬂy straight up and enter their nests
without a pause. In this instance, as can be
seen, the old bird stood on the stone, and
stretched up to push her head right inside, this
giving the opportunity needful to obtain a
picture. Later, the young, when nearly fledged,
put their heads out to greet the parent birds
with open bills, each time they came to the
nest to give them food.

The food they bring, crustaceans and other
aquatic creatures, is found beneath wet stones
on the bed of the stream, and, for those who
are not already familiar with the dipper, it is
astonishing to see him quit dry land and calmly
walk into the swirling, turbulent water and
disappear overhead. At intervals he re-

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

Aprz'l’Mo); I 94]

 

The food is found beneat/J we! Money ﬂying on the bed
of tbe stream.

appears and sometimes sinks once more, at
others dives; often he plunges thrOugh a
waterfall and emerges again quite unconcerned.
He can, apparently, defy the laws of nature
and walk submerged on the bottom of the
stream, then bob up to the surface like a cork
released at will.

Occasionally, these dippers brought to their
young a ﬂsh—a stickleback, a minnow or a
tiny trout—and this gave an opportunity to
witness such intelligent action as many people
would deny to the brain of a bird. Once a
minnow was brought, and each of three
nestlings tried in vain to swallow it: the
parent took it back to the water’s edge and,
holding it ﬁrmly by the head, she rapped it
deftly on a stone to soften it, then moistened
it in the stream. Back to the nest she ﬂew,
only to ﬁnd the ﬁsh was still too stiff and hard ;
so again she went to the side of the stream
which was nineteen yards from the nest and
repeated her action. This time she was
successful; one of the little birds was able to
gulp it down. It seems worth noting that
the dipper was able to understand the difficulty
experienced by the smaller bird and could by
perseverance overcome it.

Young dippers when they leave the nest can
swim at once, but they are fed for some days
by their parents before they learn to fend for
themselves. At ﬁrst they wade in shallow
water, but soon an instinct comes into play
and the ability to walk as by a miracle on the
river-bed; soon they can plunge in search of
water-insects, leaving the old birds free to
rear a second brood.

 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

 

Young szper fine day; out of next.

Indestructible

Sci/Ion! in [9100772,

A tomz‘z't swinging,
Marc/J run, blue sky,
And sea—ward gzrz'ngz'ng,
Toe flax/1 of gully ;

A Midax Mar

Eden ee/andz'ne [meg/Jr
In the feel/.2 of 222m";
W/Jz'z‘e z/z'o/ez‘s wake,
Bz'm’r nest again—
Dz'oz‘az‘or: pom,
T/Jei‘e tiling; remain.

TERESA Hoomr.

IN MEMORIAM: “ FRANK.”

The saga of “ Frank,” related in the March
number of THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND, has a tragic
sequel. The magpie, adventurous and inquisi—
tive to the last, went on a solitary expedition to
explore some glasshouses owned by a local
grower of tomatoes. He found his way into
the building by way of a skylight (nobody
being there at the time) and from there to the
water—tank. Whether he bent down, like
Narcissus, enamoured of his own handsome—
ness reﬂected in the water, and so like Narcissus
met his end, there is no witness to testify. The
sad fact remains that he was found drowned by
the next person who came to the spot. But,
since I believe that animals and birds have their
place in the “ many mansions ” of the elect,
no doubt “ Frank ” is still joyously pursuing
his quaint enterprises in some celestial hunting—
ground : “ Happy birds that sing and ﬂy
round Thy altars, 0 most High.” Q

TERESA HOOLEY. ’

87

 




 

 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

A prilrMay, I941

Nature’s Long Credits

By D. JEFFREY? WILLIAMS.

“ N diure’r mg! of dealing will] embed/#1] conditions is my‘ori‘imaz‘eij 7201‘ one i/Jaz‘ compel: m to
eona’itez‘ a solvent hygiene on a cab barir. Slie demora/irer m wit/J [071g erea’iz‘r and reek/es; overdrafz‘r,
and flew pill/s its up ewe/5! witb eaz‘am‘rop/Jie bankri/pfeier.”—G. BERNARD SHAW in Preface to

“ Heartbreak House.”

UBSTITUTE “ cruel” for “ unhealthy ”
conditions, and we shall understand why
wars come about, it seems to me. Mr.
Shaw says that political science has been as
recklessly neglected during his lifetime as
Sanitary science was in the days of Charles II.
Nature, he says, gave us a long credit, and we
abused it to the uttermost. But when she
struck (by means of four years of war, 1914——
1918) at last she struck with a vengeance.
Who can say that Nature has not granted us
a long credit since 1918 in connection with the
many hideous forms of cruelty that we tolerate
in our modern civilisation? Who can say that
in this present war we are not being presented
with a bill for our neglects and misdeeds ? It
is only a figure of speech to say that Nature
demoralises us with a long credit. It is we
who are blind to the risks we run in the aiding
and abetting of suffering and cruelty, in the
condonation of crime where animals are con-
cerned, in the butchery and savagery looked at
from the animals’ point of view, in our active
and passive perpetrations of the physical and
moral equivalent of war upon animal kind, in
our apparently hidebound insensivity where
pain to fellow creatures cries to the high
heavens, in our bland disregard of the hatred
and horror we have engendered in the hearts
and minds of multitudes of God’s creatures.
This is not to be taken to mean that cruelty
to our fellow-creatures in animal bodies is the
only cause of war. It is not. There are other
causes arising from other unheroic neglects and
near—cowardly temporisings and makeshifts.
Are we as gallant a people as we should like to
be ? Is our heroism to be confined to that
imposed upon us in a conﬂagration which we
lacked the courage to foresee and forestall?
Is there not a courage which insight gives into
the real causes and real issues of war? Do we
expect to reap peace when we sow for war?
Do we expect to remain at peace the while we
remorselessly lure millions of cattle, for
instance, into an enfilade of mechanically—
operated slaughtering machines in our ab—
batoirs? Is this a measure of our desire for
peace, a gauge of our will to peace? Is this

the way to avoid Nature’s “ catastrophic
bankruptcies ”? If so, then we must try to
think again, and try to bring in all the factors
that stand to our debit and credit in the global
accounts of Nature. If we now see that un-
healthy conditions of life tend directly to bring
about diseases and epidemics, may we not also
come to see that cruel conditions and practices
tend towards an outbreak of violence such
as war ?

The great philosopher Kant is supposed to
have said that war, and the suffering caused by
war, would bring men eventually to a stage
where reason would have brought them, if
they were inclined to listen to the dictates of
reason. Something more than reason is re-
quired, though we must use what reasoning
powers we possess. We need insight and that
kind of imagination that enables us to see any
suffering as it affects the sufferer, be the sufferer
human or sub-human. Imagination fails and
falters if it excludes the capacity to feel some-
thing of the pains and joys of our fellow—
creatures.

Our work in the animal welfare movement
takes on a very significant and important
aspect when viewed from this standpoint of
insurance against war. It may take some time
before it is recognised as such, but that does
not in the least alter the position. We must
go on trying to build up a credit balance on the
side of peace by our work. It is a long-term
task, but Nature apparently works on long—
term lines in bringing about the “ catastrophic
bankruptcies ” that are mentioned by Mr.
Bernard Shaw. How important our work is
none can esimate or judge on a superficial
glance. Even in religious circles the full truth
about cruelty to our fellow—creatures and its
inevitable, though long-delayed results, is not
yet appreciated. If from the standpoint of the
theory of evolution, or of the one—ness of life,

or of universal kinship, or of universal law,
we can still be complacent or indifferent to the

issues involved in the wholesale infliction of -

suffering and cruelty, the real core of truth
escapes us, and we may be counted among
those who have eyes, but see not!

88

 

 




 

 

ApriﬂMay, 1941

Our Dumb Friends’ League

THE year 1940 has probably proved to be

the most difﬁcult year for animals.

The League has received or collected,
treated or cured, found new homes for or pain—
lessly destroyed, 152,236 animals during the
year, of which 106,392 were cats, 45,923 dogs,
592 horses, 759 birds and 254 various other
animals, such as rabbits, guinea-pigs, etc.

. Seventeen of its branches have been damaged

by enemy attack, three being completely
destroyed, but in no case was the work delayed
for longer than twenty—four hours ; within
that period alternative accommodation had
been found. Despite this heavy loss only two
animals, whilst under the care of the League,
lost their lives, and the Society is happy to say
that no member of the staff has been killed or
injured.

Close upon 1,000 animals have been evacu-
ated from London to temporary homes in the
country from the list compiled by the League
in 1938 and augmented in 1940. One hundred
and sixteen dogs of men serving with His
Majesty’s Forces have been and are being cared
for by the League, the owners of these animals
having no one with whom to leave them. One
hundred and seven dogs were quarantined,
these animals having been rescued by the
BER and brought back by the men who were
evacuated from Dunkirk and elsewhere; the
majority of these dogs went after their quaran—
tine period to the men who had rescued them.
In both these cases, of course, the League is
bearing all cost.

The Ministry of Agriculture appealed to the
Society when refugees, Belgian, Dutch, French
and others, ﬂed before the oncoming Nazi
hordes. These people had left everything
behind them, but had managed to save their
dog, probably their only link with their home—
land. It was a question of destroying these or
ﬁnding some society who would pay for their
quarantine. In the case of 95 dogs and one
cat the League was pleased to do this, as it felt
it a national duty. It felt that if this nation of
so-called animal lovers were to destroy the pets
of these destitute foreigners, when they re-
turned to their country they would not think
well of their hosts, whereas if their hosts
offered them this consideration they would
think more of their animals and probably
would work for the beneﬁt of animals in their
own country after the war.

89

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

The League still maintains that the ideal for
the animal movement is close co-operation of
a friendly nature, without one or two societies
endeavouring to overbear the rest. It does
not believe in amalgamation for reasons already
stated. It is at a loss to know why this idea is
not so well received as it should be, and feels
that the Quarterly Co-operation Conference
should receive greater support. If animals are
to have their due in the post-war reconstruction
of this country it will only come about if the
societies pool their ideas, sinking their indi—
vidualities and working for the common good.
Mr. Spurrier’s excellent articles in recent issues
of the ANIMALS’ FRIEND need no comment
from me, but his proposals are assured of the
most careful and sympathetic consideration of
my Society in whatever form he may deem it
wise for them to take. '

E. KEITH ROBINSON.

Animals’ Friend Calendar

ILL readers who have not sent in a
i x; quotation for the 1942 Calendar PLEASE
NOTE that many more are needed? To
those who are evacuated and may ﬁnd a diffi—
culty in their search for a suitable quotation
and yet would like to help the work and funds
of the N.C.A.W., the National Organiser will
be glad to provide a quotation on receipt of
the IS. fee for publication. This will be
printed under the name and town of the sub—
scriber with the author’s name beneath. It is
a good thing to avoid the too hackneyed
quotations which appear regularly year after
year, although one feels that some of these are
so good that reasonable repetition is not
unwelcome.

If you have mislaid your Calendar form
please send a card to Miss Barrs, 52, Queens
Avenue, Muswell Hill, London, N.Io, and one
will be sent immediately, with extra ones for
friends if these can be used.

Miss Barrs will welcome all offers of help in
selling emblems on Flag Day, May 27th (Tues-
day). The West End depots will be at Messrs.
Waring & Gillow’s, Ltd., 164—182, Oxford
Street, WJ, and at Miss Hosali’s, 92, Blandford
Street, off Baker Street, WJ. If you are
unable to sell emblems on the street or amongst
friends privately, or to lend a car or take a
depot, a donation to swell the funds of Flag
Day will be greatly appreciated. All offers of
help should be sent in to the above address.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

A przl’May, 194]

From Onlooker’s Note Book

0 come deems flee hillside,
The April mom/9 2'5 here,

The lamb—flele, flee lark—flwe,
T/ye elyz'ld-z‘z'me of flaw/ear.

—MARGARET L. WOODs.

Cruelty the Only Sin.

SIR SIDNEY COLVIN (1845—1927), the English
literary and art critic, possessed wide know-
ledge of art and letters, consequently his work
on Walter Savage Landor is worthy of con—
sideration. Here are a few sentences from Sir
Sidney’s book on Landor published in
“ English Men of Letters ” series :

One of the points by which observers used after-
wards to be most struck in Landor, was the inﬁnite
affection and mutual conﬁdence which subsisted
between him and his pets of the dumb creation,
both dogs and others, with whom the serenity of
his relations used to remain perfectly undisturbed
throughout his most explosive demonstrations
against the delinquencies of his own species. But
his sympathies to animals were not conﬁned to pets.
In early days he had plied both gun and rod, but
by this time or soon afterwards he seems to have
quite given them up. Even in youth he had
suffered acute remorse on one day ﬁnding a
partridge, which he had bagged overnight and
supposed dead, still alive in the morning.

Cruelty was for him the chief, “ if not, indeed,”
as he once put it, “ the only sin.”

In a letter to his sister he writes more tolerantly,
and with a touch of his peculiar charm, of field
sports in general :——-

“ Let men do these things if they will. Perhaps
there is no harm in it; perhaps it makes them no
crueller than they would be otherwise. But it is
hard to take away what we cannot give, and life is
a pleasant thing—at least to birds. No doubt the
young ones say tender things to one another, and
even the old ones do not dream of death.”

Animal Community Life.

“Things Wise and Wonderful.” By E.
DINGWALL and E. A. HEARD. Here is a
beautifully produced book that lives up to its
title. The brief extract that follows will be
found in the opening essay on “ Succour My

Neighbour ” :

Life in community seems an established custom
among very many species of animals. The very
use of the collective noun in human speech bears
witness to the fact that association and mutual aid
are the rule with mammals. Herds of elephant,
rhinoceros, and antelope, of buffalo, and bison, of
zebra, wild horses, wild asses, and of reindeer;
ﬂocks of sheep and seal; families of monkeys,
colonies of mice, ground—squirrels, marmots,
beavers and rats. Of the musk-rat of Canada one

writer has admired their “ peaceful communities,”
and Kropotkin (1842-1921) observes that they are
lively, playful, and possessed of a very high degree
of intellectual development. He describes the
village of American prairie-dogs as one of the
loveliest of sights, the young ones sporting with
one another while their elders went a-visiting.
Even the carnivores associate in packs for necessary
endeavour. It seems, however, that what Kropot-
kin terms sociability proper arises not only as a
means of protection, but as a real expression of joy
in life, playing, dancing, singing together. These
are ways in which birds and animals prove that
they experience a true gladness in the company of
their fellows.

Most Friendless of the Animals.

Excerpt from The New Siaz‘ermaﬂ and Naz‘z'on,

April 29th, 1959:

To-day, men insist on the preservation even of
wild beasts. How incredible it would once have
seemed to forbid a man to shoot a lion! Yet
nowadays many people dread the disappearance of
the lion as though the world would never be the
same without him. I have no doubt that the boa—
constrictor has friends who would mourn over his
exit from the earthly scene. There may yet come a
day when the rat, most friendless of the animals,
will have a society for his proteCtion, and the
mosquito, most friendless of the insects, will be
cherished like the Camberwell Beauty.

The truth is, a world populated only by human
beings and domestic animals—a world in which no
wild animal moved, no wild bird sang, no wild
ﬂower grew, and no insect was to be seen—would
seem to most of us a horrible world and little
better than a desert. Should we even like to see
the wasp exterminated? I should hesitate before
casting my vote.

- Y. Y.

Cows and Trees.
KAREL CAPEK (1890-1938). Czech dramatist
and novelist. Nearly twenty years ago I

witnessed and enjoyed his wonderful play,
“ R.U.R.,” and later, “ The Insect Play.” This

famous author, in his last book, “ Travels in

the North,” writes glowingly of his love of

England :
_ _ It is nothing but piebald cows ruminat-
ing in the shadow of an ancient lime; it islike a
picture by an old Dutch artist who must have had
a terrible liking for cows and trees. . . . We
live in evil times, and our hearts are cramped with
worry; but the world is great.-

Thought for the Month.

. “ Each animal has his separate personality,
easily distinguishable to one who knows him.”
—GREY OWL.

ONLOOKER.

 

 




._a!d_ — _

‘ 9' “9:...“ .

 

the name of sport.

April’May 194]

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

The National Society for the Abolition of Cruel Sports

Han. Secretary: BERTRAM LLOYD, c/o 253, Cowley Road, Oxford.

Rook-Shooting.
HEifollowing passage is taken from a
volume by George D. Leslie, R.A., en-
titled Lez‘z‘ers 2‘0 Marco (1895). It might
well be used to describe a present—day rook—
shooting expedition.

“This rook—shooting is defended by the
lovers of the sport as a necessary act, and one
that is beneﬁcial to the rooks, as they say if the
young rooks were not thus thinned out the“

rookery would in time be abandoned alto: '

gether; they say also that young rooks make
a very good pie ; I have never tasted one, so I-
cannot give any opinion as to this, but I must
say this rook—shooting seems to me about the
most cruel and barbarous of all the various
processes of animal destruction which pass by
The time chosen for the
slaughter is just before the young birds are
able to ﬂy, when they sit perched about on the
branches around the nests. The shooting is
of a difficult character, as the gun has to be
held perpendicularly. The moment it begins
the old birds ﬂy off, though anxiety for their
young ones keeps them near the scene of
destruction. They generally ﬂy round and
round, just out of range, above the nests,
uttering the most unmistakable cries of misery
as they see one after another of their offspring
fall ﬂuttering to the ground through the
branches of the elms. It is this protracted
torture to the parent birds which imparts to
the sport its special feature of cruelty; the fact
that many of the birds lodge wounded amongst
the branches in lingering pain adds as well to

the gruesomeness of this kind of slaughter.
The demoralising effect on the crowd of
bumpkin urchins who look on should also be
taken into account.”

Digging-Out—Two Points of View.

An enthusiastic sportsman, signing himself
“ Factor,” in a letter to Home and Hound of
March 14th last, ventures to disagree with a
previous editorial remark that “ the earth—
stopper is the most important person in every
Hunt.” “ Factor ” states that in South Wales
“ the hill foxes seem to prefer an open-air
existence and stand up to many a hard hunt
before seeking sanctuary under ground.”

“ Another aspect of the subject,” he con—
tinues, “is that when a fox does ‘ get in,’
especially after a long hunt, I, as many others
do also, always heave a sigh of satisfaction, for
it usually means a grand dig with terriers.
Many love and glory in the actual hunt, but
personally I love a dig—it gives to me a satis-
factory climax to the day’s sport. I think it
needs a greater sportsman to stay and dig out
a fox than just to hunt for two or three hours
during the day and then return home. What
those people miss ! ”

The other side of the picture is given in the
Society’s publication, T/ye End of a Fox-Hem! :
Eye Witnesses’ Account. This leaﬂet contains a
description by the students of Paton College,
Nottingham, of a digging-out incident which
took place in front of the College on October
17th, 1935, when a fox after a prolonged
struggle with men, using prods and terriers,

 

Perened on the [Wane/w: round t/yeir nests.

91

 




 

 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

was ejected from a drain and thrown to
hounds. It is clear that “ Factor’s ” pity for
those who miss a “ grand dig ” is wasted on
humane—minded people, for the letter describes
the scene as “ ghastly in the extreme.” The
following extract from the account contains a
query to which no blood—sportsman has yet
given a satisfactory answer 2——

“ What a queer state of affairs exists regard—
ing the treatment of animals! If a man ill-
treats a domestic animal he is brought before
the magistrates and severely dealt with. Then
why should people be allowed to torture wild
animals? A wild animal does not usually
receive as much pity and understanding as a
domestic animal, yet a wild animal is a sentient
creature, feeling pain and fear as much as a
domestic animal.”

A Noteworthy Book

Your Child and Diet. By Cyril V. Pink,
M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P. The Blandford Press,
16, Hyde Street, London, W.C.I. gs. 6d.

“ At no stage of life is the right food more
important than in childhood. The very atoms of
which the body is composed come from food and
we see that the foundations of a good physique are
laid in the earliest days. By choosing his food
rightly, a mother has in her hands a tremendous
power to create a sound constitution for her child——
a power that is usually strong enough to overcome
any inherited tendency to disease.”

Thus writes the author of “ Your Child and
Diet,” a book which in our opinion is one of
the wisest, most practical and most helpful
books on the important subject with which it
is concerned that has ever been published. The
diet advocated is, of course, a food reform diet
—scientiﬁc and humanitarian. Dr. Pink is one
of a band of research workers who have made
a special study of food in relation to health and
who are convinced that much ill—health. at
present accepted as inevitable can be avoided
by reform in habits of eating. This reform
will be the next great step forward towards
better health. And he and his colleagues have
a far more truly scientific basis for their con—
clusions and recommendatiOns than the results
of experiments on unfortunate rats and rabbits,
guinea-pigs and mice; they have had 18 years
of experience at the Stoneﬁeld Maternity Home
where, as Dr. Pink avers:

We have already watched the progress of about
2,000 children fed on such a diet as described, and

AprilvMay, 1941

have seen that as a group they enjoy a much higher
standard of health than the average.

This is weighty testimony coming from a
doctor with unique experience. The diet
prescribed in the book for mother and child
represents the advice given to patients at the
Stonefield Maternity Home and in this book is
made available for the wider public. Part I
deals with the feeding and care of the child
during the first nine months; Part II, up to
Chapter XVIII, with “ After Nine Months.”
The subjects of Chapters XVIII, XIX and XX
are respectively, “ The Third and Fourth
Years,” “ Recipes and Preparations,” and
“ Feeding in Illness.”

We specially commend this book to the
attention of our readers who, if they have no
use for it themselves, are asked to make it
known to those to whom it is likely to be of
particular value, i.e., to the expectant mother
and to mothers of young children. R. H. S.

Tbe process of conversion of vegetable produce into meat
or milk is necessarily attended by a waste of energy. Pig
meat and milk are among tbe most economical animal products,
yet under tbe best conditions tbg/ supply to tbe buman con-
sumer only about one—sixtb of tbe energy of tbe foods tbat babe
been used by tbe animal.

From fine to ten times as mucb life-sustaining material is
contained in tbe wbeat as in tbe meat into ntbicb it can be
transformed. (SIR DANIEL HALL.)

 

[LL-Col. C. H. Stockley
Puff Acla’er Swimming.

Photo by]

92

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

Apri/vMay, 1941

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

Adventures Among Animals

By HARPER CORY, F.C.G.S.

 

ONE day, while I was visiting some

friends on a Canadian farm, the lady of

the house came into the kitchen looking
all hot and very angry. It seemed that while
she had been milking, some cats had persisted
in playing near the stall, and the cows simply
would not keep quiet.

So the lady had tried to shoo the cats away
with a broom, but as fast as she drove one out,
another sneaked in by the other door. Her
husband walked across to the barn, and the
lady described the cats to my friend and I.

We looked at each other with understanding,
then at once went outside to stand by our
ponies. We expected trouble. It came, and we
rode away in haste.

Poor Jackson, the farmer, had tried to clear
those cats away from the barn in a hurry, and
the cats nearly killed him. Had Mrs. Jackson
described the cats earlier, we might have
saved him ; he had entered the barn before we
got to the door.

His “ cats ” were not cats at all. They were
skunks.

Skunks are very pretty creatures dressed in
black fur adorned with two broad bands

'of white. They look harmless enough and

they can be quite friendly. But if they are
at all annoyed, they raise their tails and squirt
a yellow liquid from tiny sacs at the pit of
the tail.

A speaker on the radio said he could not
imagine what the scent of skunk oil is like.
I can tell him what it is like; I have been
sprayed three times by the stuff. It smells like
all the bad eggs in the world rolled into one.

It is like sulphuretted hydrogen, the stuff found
in those little glass “ stink-bombs ” boys play
with, and very strong aniseed mixed together.

It is dangerous stuff. It rots clothes, leather
and fur. If it reaches the eyes, it may cause
total blindness ; in the nose it ruins the sense of
smell for a long time, while even the gas can
cause internal and external bleeding if it gets
into the mouth. It is so bad that skunks never
squirt skunk oil on each other when ﬁghting.

Yet the skunk is very much the little gentle—
man, and he always gives three distinct warn-
ings before he uses his gun. Unfortunately,
his wretched victim cannot always see the
warnings at night. To give Sheegawk, as the
Indians call this animal, his due, he prefers to
lead a quiet life, and—he attacks only when ﬁght
is forced on him.

If I were to tell you some of the skunk
stories I know from actual experience, you
would laugh until your sides ached, but then
you would turn round and say that I had just
made them up. They sound too impossible
for words, even though they are true-

Brother Sheegawk has been hunted right
and left for the sake of his pelt, which is worth
only a few shillings when it is in its best
condition. But if I were a farmer, I would
forget about those shillings and let the skunks
move about as freely as they wished, because
they simply play havoc with insects which
damage the crops. Every live skunk is worth
pounds to the farmer, but his pelt is worth
only shillings.

And so it is with other creatures, even in
these Isles. It would be difﬁcult to find a
purpose useful to man for some species, but
others which can be most useful are destroyed
carelessly. For instance, weasels are often
shot on sight, but a weasel will clear a barn or
stack of mice and rats in double—quick time.
If ever you feel tempted to try your skill with
an air—gun, pause a moment to think how much
cleverer it may be to spare a creature that it
may help man. Remember the skunk and
think how much more valuable he is alive

than dead.
(From Main/y About Anima/r, May, 1940.)

 




 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

AprilrMay, 1941

Charles Tennyson-Turner (1808-7 9)

By BASIL HARVEY—JAMES.

(A very special interest attacbes to ibis article inasmucb as it was written by a regular and mucb valued contributor

to THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND and colleague in tbe .Movement—Basil Harvey-fames—wbo was reported “ missing ”

many montbs ago and of wbom we greatly regret to learn no furtber news bas been received. Tbe article is dated
August, 1956.—-EDIT0R, THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND.)

in families and there are very few instances

of near relations being pdets. In such
cases as there are, e. g., Samuel Taylor Coleridge
and Hartley Coleridge, the one considerably
outshines the other. This is not the case,
however, with the brothers Tennyson, many
regarding Charles Tennyson—Turner as the
peer of his brother, Alfred Tennyson, and some
even as his superior. In fact, Lord Tennyson
himself considered that some of his brother’s
sonnets possessed all the tenderness of the
Greek epigram, and ranked a few of them
among the noblest in our language.

Many of Tennyson-Turner’s sonnets Show
his keen sympathy with his non—human fellow—
creatures. Among these are “ Rose and
Cushie,” “ To a Starved Hare in the Garden
in Winter,” “ The Lark’s Nest,” “ Bird-
Nesting,” “ On Shooting a Swallow,” “ The
Plea of the Shot Swallow ” and “ The Star—
ling.” It is noteworthy that Mr. Lloyd has
included four of his poems in his “ Great
Kinship,” Burns being the only other poet
with four entries, and \X/ordsworth (nine
selections) with more than four.

His sonnet “ Bird—Nesting ” recalls to some
extent Francis Adams’ “ The Hedge-
Sparrows ” :—

POETRY is by no means a talent that runs

Ab! tbat balf basbful and balf eager face !
Among tbe trees tby Guardian—Angel stands,
Wit/9 bis beart beating, lest tby little bands
Sbould come among tbe sbadows, and ejface

Tbe stainless beauty of a life of love,

And cbildbood innocence—for bark, tbe boys
Are peering tbrougb tbe bedgerows and tbe grove,
And ply tbeir cruel sport witb mirtb and noise. . . .

His sonnet “ To a Starved Hare” may

remind some of us of that other hare of

Cowper :—

Soft—footed stroller from tbe berbless wood,
Stealing so mute/y tbrougb my garden ground,
I will not balk tby eager quest for food,
Nor take tby life, nor startle tbee witb sound.

Wben robin sbuﬂles on tbe snow—wbite sill

We serve bis winsome bunger; wbo would cboose
To daunt bis ruddy breast and wistful eyes .3

But bare or robin, it is bunger still.

“ The Starling ” is one of the most exquisite

sonnets ever written to a bird :——-'

. Yet tby timid eye
Is on me, and tbe barsb rebuke succeeds ;
Not like tbe tender brooding note tbat pleads
Tby cause so well, so all—unconsciously;
Yet sball to—morrow’s dawning bear tby strain
Renewed, and knit our indoor bond again.

His “ Cynotaphium” is reminiscent of

Byron’s “ Newfoundland Dog ” but with less
of bitterness.

Wben some dear buman friend to Deatb dotb bow,
Fair blooming flowers are strewn upon tbe bier,
And, baply, in tbe silent bouse, we bear

Tbe last wild kiss ring on tbe marble brow,

And lips tbat never missed reply till now ;

And tbou, poor dog, wert in tby measure dear—-
And so I owe tbee bonour, and tbe tear

Of friendsbip, and would all tby wortb allow.

In a false world, tby beart was brave and sound;
So, wben my spade carved out tby latest lair,

A spot to rest tbee on, I sougbt and found——

It was a tuft of primrose, fresb and fair,

And, as it was tby last bour above ground,

I laid tby sigbtless bead full gently tbere.

. . . wby sbould WE ONLY live,
And wbat was I tbat I sbould close mine eyes
On all tbose ricb presumptions tbat reprieve
Tbe meanest life from dust and asbes? Lo 1
How mucb on sucb dark ground a gleaming tbread
can do i

The extracts quoted prove Tennyson—Turner

a great poet, which is not the general consensus

of opinion—he being eclipsed by his poet-

laureate brother.

But Alfred Tennyson never

wrote thus about animals though there are
not a few touching references to animals in
his works. "

94

 

 

 

 

 




A

45‘. A.

I: _
.h. ' §7?_

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

‘Apri/quy I941

The F airfield Refuge

HE Fairfield Refuge for Worn—Out

Horses, under the capable direction of

Miss Chester, has continued its humane
work for yet another year under increasingly
difficult conditions at Fairﬁeld, Stanstead,
Essex. An increase of 52 in the number of
animals received during 1940 is reported—I54
as against 102 in the previous year, and of
these 140 horses, I mule, 2 donkeys and I cow
were humanely destroyed. The state of most
of the horses received was considerably worse
than in former years and it was plain that many
of them had suffered from war conditions.
Indeed, so bad was their condition that the
report states: “ It would be difficult to ﬁnd
words to describe the amount of misery, pain,
weakness and general decrepitude of the 140
horses destroyed. Many were in the last stages
of disease, most of them emaciated and weak
in the extreme, and almost every one of them
had been lately at work.”

At the end of the year the number of animals
belonging to the Refuge was 15 ponies and
2 donkeys, IO of the ponies being lent to
suitable homes in the district.

We have pleasure in calling the attention of
our readers to the work. of this Refuge. Mrs.
Davidson—Houston, the Hon. Treasurer, writes
in enclosing a copy of the 1940 report : “ I am
afraid all the animal societies are suffering very

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

much, and like ourselves must be in debtbut
one cannot refuse horses—all the cases coming
in now are very bad and they must be rescued.”
And again: “It is a great struggle to keep
things going.”

The total receipts of the Refuge for 1940
amounted to £872 128. 9d., made up in the
main of Subscriptions and Donations, £561
65. 9d.; Sale of Carcases, j€20, and Payment
for Horses bought on behalf of the Essex
branch of the International League for the
Protection of Horses, £78. Of this amount
j€714 went in the purchase of Horses; J€58
for Fodder ; 1645 I 35. for Transport of Horses,
and £24 for Hire of Fields and Stables. The
veterinary fees amounted to the modest sum
of £7 I48. and repairs to Fences, £3 108. 6d.

The work of the Fairfield Refuge is carried
on on a purely voluntary basis—there are no
salaries, wage or honorariums. Indeed, a
study of the subscription list reveals the fact
that of the J€561 63. 9d. received in subscrip—
tions during the year, no less than J£465 were
contributed by Miss Chester herself and by
Mrs. Davidson—Houston.

The closing paragraph of the report reads :

“ Please give generously so that these faithful
servants of mankind may have a painless end
to their suffering lives.”

The address of the Hon. Treasurer is : Mrs.
Davidson-Houston, Caterham Hotel, Caterham,
Surrey.

R. H. S.

 

 

Photo by] Deer in Balterrea Park. I]. H - Stone

95

 




 

 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

The Scottish Society for the

Apn'lvMay, [94]

Prevention of Viviseetion

Hon. Seaway: MIss N. IVORY (to whom all communications should be addressed).

Oﬁce: : EDINBURGH—IO, QUEENSFERRY STREET. GLASGOW—I47, BATH STREET.

The Painless Passing of a Friend.

URING the time I acted as Organiser to
Dthe Scottish Tail-Waggers’ Club, I was
so often asked by dog-lovers whose pets
were getting on in years, if I considered it
kindest to have them put to sleep when they
began to fail, and what method I thought best.
My answer was, that when they became
aged, and consequently a little more trouble by
perhaps not being able to keep up with us out
walking, or not hearing so quickly or seeing
so well, I felt that it was nothing short of our
bounden duty to give our faithful friends the
extra care they need, and to let them sleep
away naturally at their own fireside, if at all
possible.

Of course, if the dog is really seriously ill
and in great pain, then the best method and
conditions have to be carefully considered of
having them put to sleep.

I had to lose, at the early age of eight years,
a little Cairn terrier bitch, suffering from a
dangerous tumour, and as her passing was so
easy and peaceful that the veterinary surgeon
turned to me and said when leaving the house,
“ Well, I hope I have as easy an end,” I may
be helping some anxious dog lover, by
describing the method used. '

I rang up the veterinary surgeon and told
him I had made up my mind to have my Cairn
anaesthetised and asked him to set his own’
time of day to come, when he had time to do
it slowly, so as to anaesthetise and not suffocate
her.

He arranged to come in the afternoon.
Before his arrival I took her out and saw she
made herself comfortable, so that she would
go to sleep more easily.

When the surgeon arrived I asked him to
take off his hat and coat, so that the wee mite
was not at all suspicious and might think he
was just an ordinary visitor.

First, he gave her an injection of morphia,
just as she sat on my knee, which did not hurt
her a bit, in fact, she scarcely noticed the prick
of the needle. Of course she was sitting on
her “ Missis’ knee, and no harm can come to
me there,” is just what she thought, I am sure.
After this he ' sat down and we went on

96

chatting normally. Yet I controlled myself,
nervous woman that I am, so that never were
her fears or suspicions aroused.

The morphia, aided by the heat of the ﬁre,
near which I was sitting, and the drone of our
voices, took effect quite quickly, and she
drowsed off to sleep quite peacefully. Then I
laid her still sleeping in her own little basket.

Next, the surgeon, whom I had provided
with an ordinary jam jar, put into it cotton
wool saturated with chloroform, and gradually
shifted the jar nearer and nearer to her nose,
till, as he said, “ She is very deep under now,”
and that was her end.

The surgeon then kindly lifted her into a
bass bag I gave him and put her into the box-
room, where she was visited two or three
times in the next hour by my faithful old maid.
She reported to me each time that there was no
returning consciousness and, ﬁnally, that the
wee mite was now quite cold.

I just had to make quite sure, however, that
life was extinct.

I must tell of another remark the veterinary
surgeon made. It was, “ You did not let her
have puppies, did you? ” I said, “ No.”
“ What a pity,” was his reply, “ because I do
not think this need have happened had you
allowed her to have them once.”

I lived in a ﬂat in town so could not have
borne to let her just go away in the dust cart,
so next morning I went by bus to the country
carrying the wee mite in the bass bag, and
friends very kindly allowed me to bury her in
their lovely garden, where other pets are
buried, I am sure, as it was the garden of the
house where Dr. Brown wrote “ Rab and His
Friends.”

MILLIE WANDs,
Late of tbe Smith/9 Tail— Waggers’ Club.

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

ApriﬂMay, I 94]

THE ‘ ANIMALS’ FRIEND

The League for the Prohibition of Cruel Sports

Satretmy: J. CLIFFORD SHARP,

Annual Meeting.

PEAKING at the Annual Meeting of the
SLeague at St. Ermin’s, Westminster, on

March 2 5th, the President (Mr. Hamilton
Fyfe) said that the year 1940 had been a bad
year for all societies. Under the circumstances
he thought members would agree that the
League had done very well to carry on at all.
This was ﬁrst of all due to the members who
had continued their subscriptions. It was also
due to the Secretary, and, to some degree, to
the Committee, who had done their best to
meet once a month to try and keep the work
going. It was not easy to carry on but the
Secretary and the Committee were doing their
best.

The League had suffered a great loss in the
death at an early age of Edwin More, at which
he expressed his personal grief.

Mr. Fyfe said it seemed sometimes that the
work was not creating an immediate effect but
there was such a thing as the continual dropping
which wears away a stone, and he thought the
League had produced a considerable effect upon
the public mind. There were more people
sympathetic to our Cause than ever before,
and this was brought about by discussion,
which was the best kind of propaganda. The
state of mind of the public, which had been
indifferent, was rapidly changing.

Echoes of the Waterloo Cup.

Commenting on this event at the Annual
Meeting of St. Phillip’s Church, Southport, the
Vicar, the Rev. H. L. Gibbs, said: “ I must
confess to a feeling of great dismay and disgust
that in a critical year of the nation’s history
the Waterloo Cup should be run in this neigh-
bourhood for three days this week, and that
money should'be spent and gambled without
regard to the nation’s emergency. This
happens on our own doorstep when we are
being asked to save all we can for our country
and to lift up our thoughts on to higher levels
than to Waterloo dog coursing.” The Vicar
added that it was a cruel sport, and he could
only wish that the Christian Church as a whole
in the town could have taken the matter up
and insisted that this thing should not be.

Writing on behalf of our Southport Branch,

2

97

59, Hurst Road, Sidcup, Kent.

Miss Cummings (Hon. Secretary) thanked the
Vicar for his outspoken condemnation of the
Waterloo Cup, and added : “ It is deplorable
that in these days of so much mental and
physical suffering our Government, now
possessed of increased power in the ordering
of people’s lives, should not have considered
the time opportune for the abolition of what
has been aptly described as ‘ the most callous
gala of brutality that has ever masqueraded in
the name of sport.’ ”

On March 15th the Minister of Agriculture
was questioned in the House of Commons by
Mr. C. H. Wilson, M.P., on the circumstances
in which land army girls were released to round
up hares for the Waterloo Cup.

Mr. Hudson said that he understood that
ﬁve of them were occupied for three days as
beaters for the coursing, which was on the
farm at which they were employed. The
three days of the \Waterloo Cup were a normal
holiday on the farm. The girls were engaged
in sacking potatoes for market, and owing to
the hard frost, the potato pits could not be
opened at the time.

No Order to Suspend Blood Sport.

In a letter dated February 20th from the
Ministry of Agriculture we were informed that
the Ministry is “ not aware of any Order or
Regulation to suspend or prohibit hunting or
coursing for sport,” so these cruel and wasteful
“ amusements ” can continue as long as the
farmers and poultry—keepers are prepared to
tolerate them, or as long as “sportsmen”
have the means to support them.

We shall endeavour to get an Order in
Council forthe suspension or prohibition of
these “ sports,” which are a hindrance to the
national effort.

Carnforth Staghunting Incident.

We are informed by the Lancashire War
Agricultural Executive Committee that they
are taking what steps they can to prevent the
considerable damage which is done by deer in
the County by arranging for the deer to be
shot. There was no Emergency Order to
suspend or prohibit hunting for sport, and the
prevention of staghunting was a matter which
was outside the jurisdiction of the Committee.

 




 

 

 

 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

Correspondence

To tbe Editor of THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND.

DOGS AND POISON GAS.

DEAR SIR,—This League is receiving many requests
for advice on the protection of dogs against poison gas.
We have prepared a leaﬂet giving directions for the
construction of a simple home—made gas-resisting box,
and shall be glad to forward a copy to anyone on
request. A stamp for reply would be appreciated.

It will doubtless be of interest to owners in districts
where gas tests are being made to know that dogs are
immune from the effects of tear gas.

Yours faithfully,
CHAS. R. JOHNS,
S ecretary,
. National Canine Defence League.
' Victoria Station House,
London, SAW .1.

To tbe Editor of THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND.

ROOKS, FACTS AND THEORIES.

DEAR Si:R,—May I ask how our food is to be saved
by providing a wartime banquet for injurious insects,
grubs, slugs and snails? The Ministry of Agriculture
states “ rabbits, wireworms and leather—jackets caused
most damage to crops in 1940.” No wonder! when so
many nesting rooks were killed and mutilated, some
were left on the ground with their wings shot right off
while others had their legs shot away. This sickening
carnage of unmerited frightfulness was reported in the
Maluern Gazette (May I 1th, 1940). When are the voters
of this country going to place an absolute veto on such
barbarous orgies of cruelty? They offend our national
codes of fair play and decency, and “ greatly distress a
number of holiday makers,” according to Wirbecb
Standard (May 17th, 1940) and Caravan Herald (May 19th,
1940). Rooks render the food producer a treble wire-
worm service : they not only consume click beetles and
their wireworm larvae, but also the wireworms’ strong-
hold, c0uch grass. The roots of this weed are found in
the “ pellets ” of rooks. The waterproof sheet roof of
a “ hide ” in a rookery tree was covered with undigested
skins of wireworm to a depth in places of more than a
quarter of an inch. These birds consume vast numbers
of cutworms which cut cabbage plants, etc., at ground
level, and also innumerable crane ﬂies and their larvae,
leather—jackets, when they raid their subterranean
passages. A large landowner, whose name I enclose,
examined some rooks in his rookery : his simple calcu-
lation shows that one nest of rooks ate over twelve
thousand leather-jackets per week. Young rooks are
fed entirely on noxious insects and grubs; it must be M
from tbe nature and tbe rtructure of tbeir stomacb. But a
correspondent in the Sbooting Timer (May 11th, 1940)
says : “ Mrs. Rook goes home on very frequent
journeys with her bill full of grain for the young.”
Could any conjectural propaganda be more absurd?
Intensive and extensive investigation of the food of the
rook reveals that “ the bulk of their food is insects
found mainly in the upper 1% inches of the soil.” I am
unable to ﬁnd a shred of evidence to verify the mis-
leading theory that when rooks are greatly reduced the
crops increase. The reoerre appears to be tbe trutb.
When arable land was reduced by over four million
acres, the agricultural returns prove that the yield per
acre was more—not less—in 1931. Bumper crops
per acre in 1932—3-4 and 1938, excellent in 1939. Some

A pril’May, [941

years like 1937 showed abnormal weather conditions.
There were no bumper crops per acre last year, so the
hideous massacre of the innocents answered no useful
purpose. Those who have been in the midst of an
air raid may have realised the terror and despair of the
unfortunate rooks who have to face a withering blast
and see their dying offspring mutilated in the nest.
Must human brutality remain unaltered through the
ages and make it impossible for justice and mercy to
triumph over the forces of evil?

Yours truly,
T. S. HAWKINS.

CC

(Tbe following letter, contributed to tbe Bart Anglian
Daily Times ” in 19 38, will Jeri/e to rupplement and
empbarize tbe plea for and economic justification of tbe
Rook, printed in tbe foregoing letter by T. S. Hawkins.
A furtber reference to tbe yearly mariacre of rooks will
be found in tbe new: of tbe National Society for tbe Abolition
of Cruel Sports on p. 9I.—-EDITOR, THE ANIMALS’
FRIEND.)

The Rook Question in a Nutshell.

To tbe Editor, “ East Anglian Daily Timer.”

Sin—As one who has taken a keen interest in the
rook question for a long while, and whose livelihood
comes from farming, permit me to endorse Mr.
Hawkins’ letters advocating the stopping of the yearly
massacre of rooks. I do this both from a humane and
commonsense point of view. To amplify Mr. Hawkins’
list of Testimonials to the rook it might interest your
readers. We are too apt to squeal as soon as
we lose a little corn, but take for granted the trenendous
benefits given to farming by rooks. The trouble is
this : well-nigh every kernel taken by a rook is seen
and marked by farmers generally, who speedily magnify
this insigniﬁcant percentage into vast proportions, but
on the other hand farmers never know a tithe of the
amount of injurious grubs taken : yet this is minimised
until it appears as nothing, and the verdict is death to
the useful and innocent. It is a pity that people who
grudge losing a little corn do nor lose the vast amount
of good done by rooks. Were this possible it would
prove a sure way to make them readjust their view and
they would then welcome rooks to their pest—cursed
land. In fact most of our pests owe their increased
existence to sport, and evidently wireworms are now
to be included in the list. Those who advocate shooting
young rooks usually are those who plead any excuse to
justify to themselves “ an in—between season of sport.”
I venture to claim that most of the loss of crops laid
to the rook would, if properly investigated, be traced
to some pest which the bird is instrumental and was
endeavouring to keep in check. Sentiment is not the
right word to use of those who advocate clean sport——
sense would be more suitable. After all, those who
usually shoot rooks would be the ﬁrst to look in horror
at a poacher who had shot a hare on its seat, or a
pheasant at roost. That is “ not sport,” they would
say. \Well, what is the shooting of young rooks called?
The description of a police-sergeant is apt : “ Wicked,
cruel game ; why don’t they put a few bottles on a wall
and pot at them? They would get as much sport and
not be killing creatures without a single chance of
self-preservation.”

HARRY MARSH.
Hawkedon, Bury St. Edmunds.

May 21st, 1938.

98

 

 

 




i“!

AprilMay, I94]

 

THE NATIONAL CANINE DEFENCE LEAGUE
The Pioneer Organization for the Welfare of Dogs

Gives skilled treatment to over 82,000 ailing dogs and other animals every year.
Pleads the cause of the chained or otherwise ill-treated dog, by the circulation of many
thousands of posters and leaﬂets every year.

Enlightens the public on all aspects of dog-welfare by press propaganda, cinema ﬁlms,
lantern lectures, essay competitions, etc.

Seek: to pro/Jibit tire viviseetion of dogs.

Membership 5s. 0d. upwards.
CHAS. R. JOHNS, Secretary, VICTORIA STATION HOUSE, S.W.1

 

BRIGHTON & HOVE If You Are a Cat Lover You Should Join
The Cats Protection

Ideal Boarding Establishment League

The one society devoted solely to the welfare

 

 

 

Near Sea and Downs, generous 0f cats and kItte‘ns.
diet. Bedrooms, H. and C. MEMBERSHIP 5/- PER ANNUM:

water gas ﬁres. including the Society’s ofﬁcial organ,

“ * n
Moderate Terms. THE CAT
Associate Membership Subscription 3S. 6d. p.a.
Tanﬁ; MRS. M ASSINGH AM Write for Free Literature to:—-The Secretary, 29,
16 & I7 NORFOLK TERRACE, BRIGHTON. Church Street, Slough, Bucks.

 

 

 

 

 

 

The League for the Prohibition Of Cruel Sports

5, VICTORIA STR E E1 ', WESTMINSTER, 5.1V. 1.
President: HAMILTON FYFE C/mz'rman: AIR-COMMODORE L. E. O. CHARLTON, C.B., C.M.G., D.S.O.

Serretary: J. C. SHARP Hon. Treasurer: ARCHDEACON F. LEWIS DONALDSON, M.A.

This Society is devoted solely to the protection of Animals against Cruel Sports. The
League is doing for Wild animals what other societies are doing for domestic animals.

Membership 23. 6d. upwardsa

 

 

National Society for Abolition Of Cruel Sports

c/o 253 COWLEY ROAD, OXFORD

Chairman: H. G. CHANCELLOR. Hon. Treamrer: LORD OLIVIER. ‘Hon. Secretary: BERTRAM LLOYD
Recent Publications FOOD AND SPORT 1d.
' - ' By H. G. Chancellor. ’
THE PLEASURE OF KILLING 1d.

By L. Lind-af—Hageby.

 

All subscription: and rommum'raiz'om for ﬁre Magazine should be. addressed “ Tbe Editor, ANIMALS’ FRIEND,
32, Queen’s Avenue, Mum/ell Hill, London, N .10.”

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

 

 




THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

Aprilajllay, I94]

 

2 & 3 GEO. 6. Experiments on Dogs.

BILL

Prohibit experiments on dogs.

BE it enacted by the King’s most Excellent Majesty, by and with

the advice and consent of the Lords Spiritual and Temporal,
and Commons, in this present Parliament assembled, and by the,
authority of the same, as follows :—-

1.——(1) From and after. the commencement of this Act no person
shall perform or shall aid in performing any experiment on any dog,
with or without the use of anaesthetics, and no person or place shall be
licensed or registered respectively under the Cruelty to Animals Act,
:1 87 6, for the purpose of performing any such experiment.

(2) Any person contravening the provisions of this section shall be
liable on conviction under the Summary Jurisdiction Acts, in the case
of a ﬁrst offence to a penalty not exceeding ﬁfty pounds, and in the case
of a second or any subsequent offence to a penalty not exceeding one
hundred pounds or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding three
months.

' (3) Section ﬁve of the Cruelty to Animals Act, 187 6, in so far as it
relates to dogs, is hereby repealed.
. 2.—-(1) In this Act the expression “ experiment” includes any
inoculation or injection or infection or demonstration on a dog for any
pathological, surgical, physiological or other purpose other than that
necessary for restoring the health or well—being of a dog, whether or not
a licence in respect thereof is required under the Cruelty to Animals
Act, 187 6. , ,

(2) This Act may be cited as the Experiments on Dogs (Prohibition)
Act, 1939, and shall come into operation on the ﬁrst day of January
nineteen hundred and forty.

“SAVE OUR DOGS”
NATIONAL CAMPAIGN.

(Under Mr (umpires of The 560!!in Tail— Waggers’ Club.)

Pafmﬁi—THE COUNTESS OF HADDINGTON, THE EARL OF BUCHAN, ROSALIE, COUNTESS

OF BUCHAN.
H072. Director and Treasurer—Miss N. IVORY.

A.D. 1939.

Prohibition
of experi-
ments on
dogs and
penalties.

Interpreta—
tion, short
title and
commence-
ment.

 

Please all talk to your Members of Parliament about the above Bill
(introduced by Mr. Groves, M.P.), and ask them to give it their
support.

Write for Petition Forms
Edinburgh—Io, Queensferry Street.

to Miss Ivory.
London—7, Haymarket, Court, Haymarket S.W.I.

 

 

Printed in Great Britain by the Surrey Fine Art Press. Cavendish Road, Redhill. Surrey.
for the National Council for Ammals' Welfare. 3.2, Queen's Avenue, Musweli Hill, London, N10,

 




