GUARDIANS of the
NATION s ANIMALS

PRESS AN D PUBLICITY.

A STRUGGLE FOR FREEDOM.

A victim to the practice of keeping wild birds in cages.

 




 

Telegraphic Address Telephone .’
“ CRUELTY, LONDON.” N o. 543 3 GERRARD.
n 5434 n

R0931 SOClQID

 

FOR THE

Prevention oi Cruelty to Hnimals.

Royal Patrons :
HIS MAJESTY KING GEORGE V.
HER MAJESTY QUEEN MARY. HER MAJESTY QUEEN ALEXANDRA.

President a Chairman :

H..RH THE PRINCE OF WALES, K.G., K.T. COL. THE RT. HON. LORD LAMBOURN E,
c.v.o.

THE SOCIETY’S WORK AND POLICY.

 

 

A YEAR’S WORK.

18,470 complaints of cruelty investigated.

4,153 offenders prosecuted and convicted for cruelty to
animals.

21,731 persons guilty Of minor acts of cruelty were
cautioned by Inspectors or admonished in writing.

4,200 Sermons were preached on the subject of Mercy to
Animals, by Clergy and Ministers.

4,353 Members Of Jack London Club enrolled.

‘ 247,137 Essays were written by London school children on
the subject Of Kindness tO Animals; while many
similar competitions were held in the country.

i 67 New Bands of Mercy Formed.

793 Humane killing appliances, and 357,1 13 cartridges
sold to butchers.

11,548 Humane Rabbit Snares sold.
68350 Letters dealt with.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Chief Secretary—CAPTAIN EDWARD G. FAIRHOLME, O.B.E.,
105, JERMYN STREET, LONDON, S.W I.

 




 

CENTENARY ‘ OF THE
R.S.P.C.A.

1824 - 1924.

 

 

HE forthcoming Centenary Celebrations, in June, of the
R.S.P.C.A., should prove at once of the greatest interest to
animal lovers, and of genuine pride to the Empire at large.

In no portion of the civilised world to-day are animals better
treated than in our own, and in no other country exist, at one and the
same time, so many excellent laws for their care and protection, and
so much real knowledge of their needs and habits.

And yet England a hundred years ago could and did produce as
black a catalogue of habitual animal cruelty crimes as one can well
imagine.

From the brutal national sport of bull—baiting there existed, in
varying degrees of popularity, such degrading practices as bear and
badger-baiting, cock—ﬁghting and dog-ﬁghting the skinning of live
cats and many other disgusting displays, and these to an
extent astounding to the student of to—day.

It required indeed a brave heart and a ﬁrm faith, in those old
times, for any man to come forward openly and advocate the organ-
ised care of animals. ,

For the credit of our name and the beneﬁt of countless myriads

of animals, two such men were found. Richard Martin, M.P. for-

Galway, by the passing of his Act for the protection of cattle in
I822, forged the ﬁrst weapon against the Giant Cruelty. Arthur
Broome, a Church of England clergyman, through the formation of
a small society in I824 (now the R.S.P.C.A.), brought into
being machinery to make that Act effective. '

These two gallant pioneers, aided from the ﬁrst, it is interesting
to note, by that great humanitarian William Wilberforce, set out
systematically to suppress existing cruelty, and to raise and educate
public opinion in regard to the lower creation.

Their struggles and trials against prejudice and ignorance, ridicule
and malice, make magniﬁcent and inspiring reading, and Only the
profound conviction of a just cause enabled them to combat success-
fully such persistent and envenomed opposition.

Lacking money and precedent—the object of ribald satire and
savage ridicule—with press, public and parliamentary opinion against
them—it is small wonder that the infant society made little appreciable
progress for some years.

In I835, however, came the moment, perhaps the greatest in the
Society’s history as yet, when the future First Lady of the Land,
Princess Victoria, publicly allied herself with its efforts. Further in
I840 came her gift, as Queen, of the preﬁx “ Royal,” and from that

date the record of the R.S.P.C.A. has been one of steady and swift
advancement.

 

 




 

 

A brief comparative summary of the society a hundred years ago,
and the R.S.P.C.A. to-day, bears equally eloquent testimony to its
growth and value.

Instead of one humble room, we ﬁnd highly organised ofﬁces.
Instead of a small area of operations about the London markets its
activities embrace the whole of England and Wales. Its Branches
———originally two, and more or less nominal—haVe developed to-day
into 1,389 very active off-shoots of the parent Society, as well as many
thousand Sister Societies all over the world.

The one Inspector employed by Arthur Broome has given place
to a corps 203 strong of very highly trained ofﬁcers, stationed through-
out the country, whose work for last year, as will be seen on page
2, resulted in 4,153 convictions and more than 21,000 cautions for
cruelty.

Greater still, though perhaps less spectacular, is the enormous
Educational work, especially amongst the young.

Through the Society’s efforts more than a million children
annually receive oragnised instruction about animals. The basic
idea of such teaching is of course to instil into the mind of a child at
as early an age as possible a love for, and an understanding of, the
dumb creation.

There remains, however, one fruitful source of anxietywthe need
of Funds.

N0 organised work so vast and comprehensive as that of the
R.S.P.C.A. can advance, or even continue, without generous support
from the public, and it is the earnest hope of the Council that at
this signal moment in the Society’s History, the fear of compulsory
retrenchment may be banished, at least for a while.

To this end they have decided to open a special CENTENARY
FUND, to. which it is hoped very generous support will be given.
This will enable the Society to go forward into the second century, not
only ﬁred by its former success but also freed from the anxiety of
money, and carry on and extend its work for the beneﬁt of suffering
animals. '

For this fund, in view both of what has already been done, and
what is still to be done, the Council hope to enlist the sympathy and
support of every humane man and woman.

WILL YOU HELP?

g IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII I lllll IIIIII IIIIIIIII IIIIIlIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIII-

To Secretary, R.S.P.C.A.,
105, Jermyn Street, London, S.W.l.

I enclose the sum of 5.. : s. d. as a

DONATION to the R.S.P.C.A. CENTENARY FUND.

Name ..................................................................

Address ................................................................

Cheques, P.0’s, etc. payable to “Secretary, R.S.P.C.A.” and
crossed “ Coutts & Co.”

l..---".....I.II.'.'.l.-..'--I...-.-...-...I.I....-'-..'I........I'...I..I.---.'..-.---..'..I

III-III.-IIIIIIIIIIIIIII‘

all-IIIIIICIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII

 




