1111111117 7. 1%»?

11111.. 1111111111 ”11111 511111111311. 11111111111111
11111111111111 1.1111111 1111131111 1115061111011. 1111:.
1 11111.11 13.111111 1101111

111111111; 2173. .Z’111c111g111

1211111 111:". 111111 3111111111:

I 11:11:11 111111111111 1:11-12 Ian-1.1.111: 11. 1.15... 111111111 ‘11:; 111112211 1113111111
in 11;: 1i?“”’”"’ 1.13 1.11 1,111.11...» 111111111111 11:11 1:11:13. 1111111111111 of 111'-
hibitem 1:11 1.1.1.1111 ”11 11111111; 11111111 113 Quaimd in her 11‘»-
1111111. ' .1111 311101111 of the 1111111111: 11111311 111111111 1.111111111111111.
I 111111 ":1: 1.11:1 1:11 1:16-11:11 1111 11111111111}? 11111512111 1111111111; 1111111121111. 1:11"
1111121 111 1:11.11 1 3111;: 1:1: $1111 .111“:- 111: 1111111111 which 39111111111»-
151 12111 1111- 31111111111 by 11111 11111 1:11” 11 1111111111 11131111.. I believe it 311
11111111111111.1111 1111 the Msociatim: 111 1111-1 111111 1111 1111115101: 111 this
9111111111 .111 1.111 be guilty of 1111611111 1.11 111111111311 in the 1111111111111
111' 11111111 11:. 1.1111 cantraxy. 1111111211.: 1.1.. 1.111., {11 1111 31110111111111.5111
1111101111: 111 1111 11111111111. I 11:31:1111 111 .1111: 11111111111 that 1 1:31:11qu
ravisaw 1:11 11 111111 of the 111111121 «11111 01111131211111 rules be 11111.1
11:1 13.11.11.111 11.1111 and unquestmmmy 11111111111. 11111 possibility 111'
39111111111111; .1111 1:13:11 of this am. '

I am 111111 11111131 that I will not be 111111 11: attend the 1311113111139
1111111111111. 111.11 2' hope my 1101111111 11111. 1111 1111 111111111 the sessicm
Friday 11111111111. 1 1111 111111 1111:: you 111111111 11111 somecme 1m
1111: 31:11 1111 11111113 my views 111101111 111 the 11:1 sauna.

3111111111111? ,

Alfred 1’... 1351811031. Ir.

 




SOCIETY FOR ANIMAL PROTECTIVE LEGISLATION
P. O. Box 3719
Georgetown Station
Washington, D. C. 20007

January 1976

To Humanitarians:

Your letters have brou ht about another enormously important event in

 

the fight against suffering inflicted on animals by man.
5!”

NOvember 17th and 18th on H. .

 

is the first time the U.S. Con ress

 

Hearings were 5510
e crueI leghold trap. This

 

 

“.s ever addressed theiquestion. Now

humanitarians must do their very utmost to obtain passage of the strongest
possible bill. .

the millions each year.

Enclosed is a leaflet which shows the suffering wild animals undergo by

Pet dogs and cats are caught in these grim traps,

too, and sometimes suffer for days or even weeks before they are found.
Gangrene sets in and their limbs have to be amputated if their lives are to

be saved.
to end their suffering.
with your own animal.

Others are too far gone when found and have to be euthanized
Some of you may have gone through such an experience
Please write us about it if you have.

Your Society

submitted testimony at the hearings documenting some of these cases which
bring closer to home the agony of the wild creatures and the untold millions

of hours of pain, terror and exhaustion they are forced to undergo.

We will

continue to submit such documention till legislation is enacted. ,g;

on the federal lands, to prohibit interstate commerce in fufs o

””‘W

H.R. 66 woukiauthorize the Secretary of the Interior tg’regul,tea”rapping

a!" 1.;

eathers

from animals caught in inhumane traps or shipment of such traps in interstate

or foreign commerce.

up to a year's imprisonment.

IS PENDING AS YOU CAN.

Violators would be punished by fines up to $5,000 and/or

PLEASE WRITE TO AS MANY MEMBERS OF THE SUBCOMMITTEE BEFORE WHOM THE BILL

WRITE ESPECIALLY TO ANY FROM YOUR OWN STATE.

IF YOUR

CONGRESSMAN IS LISTED, BE SURE TO WRITE TO HIM ASKING HIM TO DO EVERYTHING

IN HIS POWER TO SEE THAT H.Ro 66

IS REPORTED FAVORABLY BY THE SUBCOMMITTEE.

ASK YOUR NEIGHBORS AND FRIENDS TO WRITE TO HIM, TOO. LETTERS, WIRES, AND

PHD

Hon.
Hon.
Hon.
Hon.
Hon.
Hon.
Hon.
Hon.
Hon.
Hon.
Hon.
Hon.
Hon.
Hon.
Hon.
Hon.
Hon.
Hon.
Hon.

NE"CKLE§‘FKUM‘CONSTITUENTB‘ARE’KEWKYS‘CIVEN TOP—ATTENTION BY MEMBERS OF
I CONGRESS. ’

Democrats

 

Robert L. Leggett, Chairman (Ca.)
John D. Dingell (Mich.)

Paul G. Rogers (Fla.)

Glenn M. Anderson (Ca.)

Eligio de la Garza (Tex.)

John B. Breaux ELa.)

Fred B. Rooney Pa.)
Gerry E. Studds (Mass.)
David R. Bowen (Miss.)
Don Bonker (Wash.)

Les Au Coin (Ore.)

Norman E. D'Amours (N.H.)
Bo Ginn (Ga.)

Carroll Hubbard, Jr. (K .)
Jerry M. Patterson (Ca.¥
Leo c. Zeferetti (N.Y.)
James L. Oberstar (Minn.)
Ron de Lugo (V.I.)

Leonor K. Sullivan (Mo.), Ex Officio

Subcommittee g2 Fisheries and Wildlife Conservation and the Environment

Republicans

 

Edwin B. Forsythe (N.J.)

Paul N. McCloskey, Jr. (Ca.)

Joel Pritchard (Wash.)

Don Young (Alaska)

Robert E. Bauman (Md.)

Norman F. Lent (N.Y.)

Matthew J. Rinaldo (N.J.)

David F. Emery (Me.)

Philip E. Ruppe (Mich.), Ex Officio

ALL CONGRESSMEN MAY BE ADDRESSED: HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING, WASHINGTON, D.C. 20515

NOW IS THE TIME FOR HUMANITARIANS TO MAKE THEIR VOICES HEARD TO HELP
THE ANIMALS DESPERATELY STRUGGLING IN TRAPS OR COLLAPSING FROM SHOCK,
STARVATION AND EXPOSURE INTO LONG-DRAWN-OUT DEATH, SUFFERING THE INTENSE
PAIN CAUSED BY BREAKING THEIR TEETH AGAINST THE STEEL OR THE ACTUAL GNAWING
OFF OF THEIR OWN LIMBS WHEN THE TERROR OF THE TRAP OUTWEIGHS THE PHYSICAL
PAIN CAUSED BY SUCH A MEANS OF GAINING FREEDOM.

 




Ninety-three members of Congress have co-sponsored Congressman Glenn

Anderson's (D.,Ca.) bill.

Their names are listed below by states.

Please

write to as many as possible especially from your state, thanking them for
their supgort and asking them to devote special efforts to enac menE of‘EHis

Iong over ue legislation.

Ask your own Congressman to become a co-sponsor

of H.R. 66 and to urge its prompt enactment.

Co-sponsors of Congressman Glenn Anderson's Bill, H.R. 66

ALABAMA
Bucﬁanan, Hon. John Hall, Jr. (R.)
CALIFORNIA
BeII, Hon. Alphonzo (R.)
Brown, Hon. George E., Jr. (D.)
Bur ener, Hon. C air (R.)
Del ums, Hon. Ronald V. (D.)
Edwards, Hon. Don (D.)
Hannaford, Hon. Mark (D.)
Lloyd, Hon. Jim (D.)~
McCloskey, Hon. Paul N. Jr. (R.)
Mineta, Hon. Norman Y. (
Moss, Hon. John (D.)
Patterson. Hon. Jerry (D.)
Ryan, Hon. Leo J. (D.)
Stark, Hon. Fortney H. Jr. (D.)
Talcott, Hon. Burt (R.S
Van Deerlin, Hon. Lionel (D.)
Wilson. Hon. Robert C. (R.)
COLORADO
c roeder, Hon. Patricia (D.)
CONNECTICUT
0 er, on. William R. (D.)
Sarasin, Hon. Ronald (R.)
FLORIDA
BurEe Hon. J. Herbert ER.§
Fascell, Hon. Dante B. D.
Gibbons, Hon. Sam (D.)
Lehman, Hon. William (D.)
Pepper, Hon. Claude (D.)
Young, Hon. C.W. Bill (R.)
HAWAII
MaEsunaga, Hon. Spark M. (D.)
ILLINOIS
c ory, Hon. Robert (R.)
Metcalfe, Hon. Ralph H. (D.)
Mikva, Hon. Abner J. (D.)
Russo, Hon. Martin (D.g
Yates, Hon. Sidney D.
INDIANA
Jacobs, Hon. Andrew J. (D.)
KANSAS
Keys, Hon. Martha (D.)
Winn, Hon. Larry, Jr. (R.)
KENTUCKY
Mazzoli, Hon. Romano L. (D.)
LOUISIANA
Boggs, Hon. Corinne (D.)
MARYLAND

Guae, Hon. Gilbert (R.)
Mitchell, Hon. Parren J. (D.)
Sarbanes, Hon. Paul (D.
MASSACHUSETTS
BOland, Hon. Edward P. (D.)
Burke, Hon. James A. (D.
Drinan, Hon. Robert F. (D.)
Harrington, Hon. Michael (D.)
MacDonald, Hon. Torbert Hart (D.)
Moakley, Hon. John J. (D.)
Studds, Hon. Gerry D.
Tsongas, Hon. Paul D.

MICHIGAN
ro ead, Hon. William (D.)
VanderVeen, Hon. Richard (D.)
MINNESOTA
FrenzeI, Hon. Bill (R.)
MISSOURI
Symington, Hon. James (D.)
NEW HAMPSHIRE
D'Amours, Hon. Norman E. (D.)
NEW JERSEY
“—DanieIs, Hon. Dominick V. (D.)
Helstoski, Hon. Henry D.
Howard, Hon. James J. D.
Maguire, Hon. Andrew (D.)
Meyner, Hon. Helen S. (D.
Rinaldo, Hon. Matthew R.
Rodino, Hon. Peter wallace, Jr. (D.)
Roe, Hon. Robert A. (D.)
Thompson, Hon. Frank, Jr. (D.)
NEW YORK
AﬁEro, Hon. Jerome A. (D.)
Badillo, Hon. Herman (D.
Biaggi, Hon. Mario (D.)
Chisholm, Hon. Shirley (D.)
Downey, Hon. Thomas (D.)
Holtzman, Hon. Elizabeth (D.)
Horton, Hon. Frank (R.)
Koch, Hon. Edward I. (D.)
McHugh, Hon. Matthew F. (D.)
Murphy, Hon. John (D.)
Nowak, Hon. Henry J. (D.)
Ottinger, Hon. Richard (D.g
Scheuer, Hon. James H. D.
Wolff, Hon. Lester L. (D.)
Zeferetti, Hon. Leo C. (D.)
OHIO
Ashley, Hon. Thomas (D.)
Carney, Hon. Charles J. (D.;
Mosher, Han. Charles A. R.
PENNSYLVANIA
BiesEer, Hon. Edward G. Jr. (R.)
Coughlin, Hon. R. Lawrence R-
Edgar, Hon. Robert William D.
Eilberg, Hon. Joshua (D.)
Vigorito, Hon. Joseph P. (D.)
RHODE ISLAND
Beard, Hon. Edward (D.)
TEXAS
SEeelman, Hon. Alan (R.)
Wilson, Hon. Charles (D.)
VIRGINIA
WEIEeHurst, Hon. G. William (R.)
VIRGIN ISLANDS
’dé‘Lugo, Hon. Ron (Delegate)
WASHINGTON
HicEs, Hon. Floyd V. (D.)
Pritchard, Hon. Joel M. (R.)
WEST VIRGINIA
Hechler, Hon. Ken (D.)

 

ALL CONGRESSMEN MAY BE ADDRESSED: HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING, WASHINGTON, D.C. 20515

Let us know if you can use more c0pies of this letter and leaflet for
distribution to those who will help this campaign. We can send up to 50 copies
of both leaflet and letter without charge, and_in special instances larger
numbers, if you let us knOW'hOW you plan to distribute them.

 

Trappers and furriers are well organized and well financed. Up to now

they ve preVEﬁted any Hearings from taking pTace. At last, humanitarians

can focus their efforts through H.R. 66. But if we do not show the Congress
the strength and breadth of our concern about this most lengthy and intense

animal suffering, we may not have another chance for a long, long time.

With most grateful thanks for writing to help creatures unable to voice
their own desperate need.

Sincerely,
Madeleine Bemelmans, President

Christine Stevens, Secretary

 




SOCIETY FOR ANIMAL PROTECTIVE LEGISLATION
P. O. Box 3719
Georgetown Station
Washington, D. C. 20007

STATEMENT IN SUPPORT OF H.R.0158A3, TO ASSURE TEE HUIVLANE TREATMENT OF ANIMALS
’ By Christine Stevens, Secretary

August 8, 197M

Mr. Chairman, it is a great pleasure to present testimony in support
of your bill which is badly needed to end abuses suffered by animals in
transit.. This is a major trouble area which has been recognized by
international animal protective organizations as worthy of the most serious
efforts at reform.

The revolution in transportation left animals behind, first, when
livestock were switched from railroads to trucks, second when smaller
animals began to be sent almost entirely by air and, to an alarming
degree, in Class "D" compartments of airplanes.

Although the overwhelming majority of livestock now travel by truck
instead of rail, the Congress has failed to catch up with the existing
situation, and the 28-hour law applies only to the tiny minority of animals

still moved on trains. Trucked livestock has no federal protection what—
ever. we strongly support the move you have made to include livestock
under the humane provisions of the Animal Welfare Act.

As for the constantly increasing numbers of animals produced for the
pet trade and the laboratory trade, they must be rescued from transporta-
tion in nearly airtight closets where ventilation is reduced to mere
seepage of air and temperature control does not exist.

It is a tribute to the will to live that animates most creatures
that only a small percentage of animals reportedly die as a result of the
stress to which they are frequently subjected in air transport and in pre-
vious and subsequent handling on the ground. Even if none of them actually
died, regulation is necessary to stop the suffering, shock and terror which
current practices too often inflict.

The pet industry would have us believe that regulation is not needed.
They have protested against the modest proposed regulations put forward
by the Federal Aviation Administration, as has the Air Transport Associa-
tion. The vast majority of the comments, however, were strongly in favor
of the FAA proposal, and I would like to submit for the record of these
hearings some of these letters. It is interesting to note that reports
of mistreatment of animals not directly related to the FAA rule making
are included in some of these letters. Since your bill, Fr. Chairman,
would cover a much broader area, all types of mistreatment would properly
become a federal offense.

Professor Lorna Sadler of the University of California writes: "My
animals have been sent right down the chute with the luggage on more than

 




‘2.

one occasion". Cathy Buley, a flight attendant writes: "I have seen
many animals left outside (waiting to be loaded) in wire cages in all
kindscﬂ’weather (snow, rain and extreme heat),. These animals are terri-
fied by all the loud noises. . . I understand that the baggage belt at
DFW has caused death to some animals because it moves so fast and has
snapped the necks of these pets". Dr. Norman H. Altman, Senior Scientist
at Papanicolaou Cancer Research Institute, Miami, writes: "In the paSt
these shipments have been handled like crates of lettuce: crowded into
cargo holds and left on loading docks in adverse weather. . . It is not
uncommon for animal shipments to be delayed, re~routed or 'bumped’ for
cargo with a higher priority. This is not only harmful to the animals,
but may seriously hamper important research projects". P.M. Konrad, a
breeder and exhibitor writes: ". . . there seems to be a consensus to
avoid using DC 10's because of the inadequacy of the ventilation in the
cargo area. . . recall a story of 3 Great Danes being shipped Denver to
San Francisco and they arrived DOA -- smothered! This brings up the
question of waiting - prolonged waiting on the runways. Provisions ought
to be made for such contingencies".

Elaine Hendricks, an airline hostess, writes: "A cargo man opened
the bin of an aircraft and found a loose cat with its throat slit .‘. .
a shipment of puppies was left in the rain exposed to the cold. They were
being shipped from Wichita, Kansas to Chicago, but had to change flights
in Kansas City. Last Christmas in Washington, D.C. several dogs died due
to similar conditions, except they were forgotten due to the holiday rush.
Several months ago a shipment of birds died in Lallas because the new
baggage system exerted such force that it broke their necks. Last Febru—
ary a baby cat was lost in baggage changing in Omaha. It was shipped back
to its original point and died without food and proper care. These are
just a few instances that I have encountered". Two air hostesses,
carol Kretschmer and Lynne Davis and a flight attendant, A.B. Holland,
signed a statement concluding, "I am acutely aware of the hazards in
shipping pets and other animals in the cargo sections of airliners". A
letter from The Jackson Laboratory, Bar Harbor, Maine, signed by E.P. Les,
Ph.D., Staff Supervisor of Animal Health, David D. Myers, D.V.M., Ph.D.,
Assistant Director (Production) and E.L. Green, Ph.D., Director, states
in part: "We have numerous reports of shipping containers arriving in a
condition which makes it apparent that the container had been crushed or
otherwise subjected to mistreatment which resulted in death or escape of
mice. We have other evidence that containers were inverted or upended
during all or some part of the period of transit. We have reports indicat-‘
ing that debilitation or death of mice or rabbits occurred due to suffoca-
tion, exposure to cold, exposure to heat and exposure to low air pressure".

Richard R. Kemp, Kemp Engineering C0,, Jacksonville, Fla., writes
that he'bbserved crates of small pets which had been placed outside the
airlines baggage office on a ramp in direct sunlight on a 97 degree day,
with no water or shade, until I complained to the Station Manager, by
which time the small poodle inside the crate was almost beyond help . . .
other occasions . . . unheated jetcraft baggage compartment and were
almost frozen to death . . . My son, . . . Air Force Officer, shipped his
large dog (a full-sized male poodle) from Los Angeles to Jacksonville. . .
heavy duty wood crate . . . partially crushed . . . almost frozen and sick
for days after receipt . . . The writer has been a licensed pilot for
over thirty years”.

 




-3-

B.J. Lester of Neptune Beach, Fla, writes, "While I was employed
at a municipal zoo in North Florida, we were shipped A sea lions via one
of the major airlines. The distance involved was extensive and when the
animals arrived at a stopping point in Tampa, Fla., 3 of the h were dead
from suffocation and the fourth was very ill. She was removed from the
aircraft or cargo holding area and was brought back to good health by an
animal gardens there, for which we were all very grateful. The matter
was hushed up by everyone because they were afraid the airlines would
stop accepting wildlife shipments from dealers and zoos if anyone com-
plained".

Nicholas Turkey Breeding Farms of Sonoma, Calif. writes, ”We are in
favor of the amendment to part 121 of the Federal Aviation Regulations
relative to 'shipment of live animals aboard aircraft as the amendment
would cover live poultry. The problem with restriction of ventilation
is of particular concern to us".

Mrs. G.V.O. O'Flaherty of Richmond, Va. writes, "As an owner of a
Boston terrier a few years ago I flew her by Delta Airlines from Atlanta,
Ga. to New York City when I received her back from their handling of her
as cargo, she was in violent pain, half dead, suffering from, according

to the veterinarian, shock and eardrum damage. . . ".

Among well thought out recommendations in the FAA letters are the
following: Dennis F. Kohn, D.V.M., West Virginia University, Medical

Center, Morgantown, "We understand that a 'D' cargo compartment in most
instances has no air conditioning and that DC~8 compartments lack an

air exchange system. Another is that there is no auxiliary oxygen supply
to 'D' cargo compartments. . . The Committee recommends that cargo com-
partment and container standards ensure that proper temperature, pressure,
air exchange rates and oxygen supply are maintained on a continuous basis.
We suggest, as a -possible means to accomplish this, that animals be
housed in the 'C' compartment and that 'E' type passenger environmental
systems be piped into each animal container".

William F. Gill, Jr., President, Flight Engineers' International
Association writes: ”. . . this notice continues only the initial pro-
visions necessary to enhance the safe carriage of animals by air. We
hope that this proposal will be followed by additional proposals which
will at least cover the areas of: l) Minimum.standards of size and con-
struction of shipping containers used for transport of live animals; 2)

'inimmm.requirements of free air space in Class D cargo compartments when
live animals are carried therein which would equate animal size, animal
numbers and trip length sufficiently to give a necessary margin of
survivability. Restrictions on placement and carriage of articles that
could prove detrimental to the existing air supply such as dry ice,
noxious fumes etc.; 3) Minimum temperature requirements for storage of
animals awaiting shipment and within cargo compartments in flight; h)
Minimum requirements for processing animal shipments before and after
flight .

Robert E. Mouton, Manager Acadiana Regional Airport writes: " , , ,
we cannot recommend enough that the Department of Agriculture be assigns
a specific and significant role in determining a more finite rule regulat-
ing the transport of animals (for export shipment) aboard aircraft".

 




-u-

Duane Best, Special Representative on Animal Transportation, Air
Line Pilots Association, writes: "Live animal shipments presently constitute
a greater percentage of air cargo shipments than any air carrier is will-
ing to acknowledge. The airlines keep track only of those animals that
are shipped as either checked-baggage or air freight. However, about 80
to 90 percent of all animal shipments are carried through REA Express and
no records of these shipments are maintained by the airlines. Consequent-
ly, there simply is no way to obtain accurate estimates of animals that
may be injured or killed during transit due to the shifting or tumbling
of cargo during turbulence encounters or through acceleration and decelera-
tion on rough runways during takeoffs and landings. . . Consequently
thousands of animals ~~ a large percentage of them puppies bound for pet
stores -- are being shipped in flimsy containers which do not have the
strength to withstand impact loads from falling or shifting cargo . . .
the cases sometimes break, and the small animals therein (usually mice or
rats) escape and roam through the tiniest of holes throughout the aircraft
so long as they continue to live. Almost any flight engineer can attest
to spotting these little rodents during walk-around inspections of aircraft
. . . noise exposure . . . may be the major key. . . Humans who must work
in the type of noise environment encountered on airport terminal ramps
wear ear-miffs or ear-plugs continuously, yet animals with far more sensi-
tive ears (dogs howl at a siren because it irritates) are exposed to jet
engine noise and particularly to the whining scream of jet auxiliary
power units for extended periods while sitting on ramps or in freight
carts waiting to be loaded into a cargo pit . . . This terribly frantic
activity on the part of a noise-crazed, berserk animal frequently leads
to such things as collapse from heat prostration, uncontrolled defecation,
urination, vomiting and, sometimes, heart failure. Trainers and breeders
will attest to the fact that marked psychological changes are frequently
noted to occur in animals that have undergone such an experience, and that
these changes are sometimes permanent . . . noise suppression padding or
insulation be used to line any cargo area where live animals may be stowed
for transport aboard aircraft”.

At the recent convention.of the American Veterinary Medical Associa—
tion in Denver, veterinarians who stopped at the booth of the Animal
Welfare Institute were asked whether they had treated clients’ pets for
heat prostration or injury following air shipment. The veterinarians
were also asked for recommendations on temperature control, ventilation
and other matters relating to air transport. Following is a sampling of
replies. Dr. Richard P. Poll of Los Angeles treated a one year old male
Samoyed that died of heat prostration and acute pancreatitis. His
recommendation was for "constant pressure control and temperature of 70 -
75 F. Good fresh air circulation throughout trip. Recommend owner use
tranquilizers before flight and assure that animals will be given access
to water if forced to be held over at airports for stops". Dr. Richard
Weidner of Baltimore, Ohio indicated that he had treated animals for heat
prostration or injury following air shipment and that the outcome "has
varied depending on age and condition". His recommendation for tempera-
ture control was 60 - 80 F. Em. R.L. Gillespie of Columbia, Md. has
treated animals following air shipment and found "primarily hypoglycemia
due to fasting young puppies 6 weeks of age for 8-10 hours". He character-
ized the outcome of the treatment as ”fairly good," and recommended that
temperature control and ventilation should be "same as in passenger com—
partment".

 




-5-

Dr. Fred L. Moss of Hitus, Oklahoma recommends temperature between
70 and 80 F . 10 x/min turnover for ventilation, provision of water and
shade and "someone to meet dogs upon arrival at destination; water, walk

and see animal is comfortable".

Dr. Lyman B. Crittenden of Beltsville, Md. comments on the shipping
of baby chicks as follows: "Temperature control 50 - 85 F. Must not be
stacked more than u high boxes, h inches from other containers. Handling
on the ground before and after flights: put in shelter from cold and heat.
Standard chick boxes OK if handled correctly. Handling of hatching
eggs is presently extremely rough. Vibration breaks up air cell with
loss of hatchability".

A particularly poignant letter which Mrs. Bemelmans, President of
the Society for Animal Protective Legislation and I recently received
explained that the writer, Mrs. Jean Salerno, never took her pet by air
because she had been advised that it was dangerous to do so, but she had
to return urgently to New York from Florida and though she pled with the
airlines that the dog only weighed eight pounds, none would allow it in
the passenger cabin. Eastern Airlines sold her a crate which she described
as enormous. To quote Mrs. Salerno, "The plane was 2% hours late, having
run into a terrible storm, but when we went for our little poodle no one
knew where she was. The baggage man said she was with the mail, and the
mail room men said she was with baggage. Finally, after two of the most
agonizing hours imaginable, we found her in an extremely cold unguarded
room completely soaked from the storm outside. (Weather was about 20
degrees) shivering and huddled in one corner of this enormous and com~
pletely drenched box or crate". Mrs. Salerno concludes, "This darling
little gentle dog got ill and died as a result of this obnoxious behavior
on the part of airline employees, all I can say is I actually paid Eastern
Airlines $50.00 to kill my precious little pet. Never, never again!
Naturally, I pray for some strict legislation regarding all animal trans-
portation - and am amazed that up to now the airlines have been literally
getting away with murder. Much success with Congressman Foley's bill
H.H. lSBh}, and thank God for people like him".

It is obvious that Mrs. Salerno never received damages for the death
of her dog and that the little poodle's death would not show up in any
statistic.

Here is another example, however, in which damages were paid. I
quote from Cats Magazine. "Money won't bring Sammy back, but $500 damages
paid by MEA.Air Express to Joe M. Fischer of Kenmore, N.Y. for shipping
death of Fischer's pet cat may make airlines take notice and treat
felines with more care. Fischer shipped Sammy, a White Ash, from Buffalo
to San Francisco, to be with Mrs. Fischer during her west coast vacation.
At destination, cat was crushed by a load of baggage, for which REA
offered $75 in compensation. Attorney J. Edmund de Castro handled case
against air company for Fischer, and Muriel K. Alexander (Somerton Cattery)
testified as to Sammy's true monetary value. Court awarded damages plus
court costs to Fischer. A new precedent in cat jurisprudence?"

 

If. H.R. 158u3 is passed and strictly enforced there should no longer
be any need for suits of this kind. Suffering and death can be prevented
rather than compensated for at whatever level of reimbursement. Had

 

 




-6-

Sammy been an american short hair of unknown antecedents he would have
suffered just as much, even though his commercial value was n11.

In the arguments over FAA and CAB proposals, commercial interests
constantly refer to money rather than to the well-being of the animals.
The well-being of the animals must come first. Once that principle has
been established, efforts can be turned to finding the most efficient
and practical way to accomplish the transportation without unnecessary
expenditure.

There has been some question about the outer limits of temperature
variation which can be withstood by different Species of animals. It
has even been suggested that no decision should be made on requirements
until stress tests have been run for the different species. Such tests
would almost certainly cause extreme and unnecessary suffering to the
test animals, particularly if the criterion is survivability. Certainly,
humanitarians do not want any LD 50 tests run for the purpose of setting
standards, nor can years of delay be tolerated while attempts are made
to fund the studies and, in the somewhat unlikely event that funding is
forthcoming, by further years of testing and challenging of the data.

We are dealing here with a matter which can be decided on a common sense
basis, especially since guidance is already available with respect to
livestock. In "Environmental Considerations for Shipment of Livestock
by Air Freight," (APHIS 91-21) May, 197M, the Animal and Plant Health
InSpection Service of the U.S. Department of Agriculture provides sound,
practical advice and gives acceptable temperature ranges for livestock
of varying ages and conditions. With the exception of day-old chicks
which must be kept very warm, the general range is MO or 50 degrees F up
to 75 or 80 degrees F.

If the public could be assured that from now on small animals will
be kept within similar temperature ranges throughout their transportation
by air and in the holding areas before and after flights, and that they
would be moved as rapidly as passengers are from the plane to the terminal
building, we could breathe a sigh of relief. If we could be assured that
temperatures would stay in the range of 50 to 80 degrees 9., there would
be very few animals indeed that could be harmed by such a temperature
variation.

The problem is that actual control of temperature is, from all I can
learn, absent from Class D compartments. However, certain heating ducts,
I am told, do provide some heat at high altitudes, in some planes. We
suggest that an amendment be added to H.R. 158h3 making it mandatory that
planes carrying animals have a temperature monitoring system in whatever
compartment animals are carried, and that the pilot of the plane be able
to read that temperature in the cockpit. In this way, pilots will be
aware if any extreme of temperature is occurring. On landing, he would
know whether immediate attention was required. Further, if all planes
were equipped with such monitoring devices, it would soon become clear
what the problem is with respect to temperature.

It will be noted in the APHIS livestock chart that minimum ventila—
tion rates are given for each type of animal. In Class D compartments
there 13 no ventilation, by definition. Therefore the amount of oxygen

present at take-off must last all the animals in the compartment for the

 




-7-

trip. Nor is oxygen the only consideration. According to Dr. N.H. Brewer,
"Air changes are important, not so much to supply oxygen and remove

carbon dioxide, but to remove excess heat, moisture, odors and pollutants
. . . An animal undergoing the excitement of cargo shipment may produce
heat that is 5 or 6 times the basal rate". A table is_attached to the
paper. Dr. Brewer also states, "It is obvious that in hot weather it

is important that more space be allowed each animal unless other provisions
such as adequate air conditioning or adequate ventilation (without drafts)
are provided”.

In an article, "The Carriage of Animals at High Altitude," by G.B.
Taylor, M.R.C.V.S. (Veterinary Record, 2/2h/70) several other considera-
tions are given. For example, "Serious injury may result from decreased
atmospheric pressure resulting in diaphragmatic displacement in large
bovines: colic and stomach rupture may occur in the horse". Further,
"when animals make up the load and there is nobody on duty in the cabin
to warn the flight engineer that there have been changes in the rear of
the aircraft, damage may well be done to animals because the atmOSphere
has become dangerous . . . there have been cases when animals have had to
take in totally dry air because the temperature has risen dangerously
high. .Dry reSpiratory mucosa resulted and, of course, there was a great
deal of lung damage". Further on, discussing failure of pressurization,
Dr. Taylor notes: ”. . . permanent damage to the central nervous system
may result if the animal is left in this state of severe anoxia for more
than two minutes”.

The many opportunities for injury of unaccompanied animals in aircraft
cannot fail to give rise to most serious concern. Although proponents
of the status quo argue that huge numbers of animals make successful
flights and charge that the data are inadequate to show cause for changes,
I would suggest to the distinguished members of this Committee, that there
is even less data to show that a great many animals are not harmed fre-
quently in ways which fall short of immediate death but which cause
great suffering and very likely weakens the animal in undetermined ways.

It is significant that, as demonstrated in the letter to FAA by Mr.
Lester there is a strong tendency to hush up animal injury and death
for fear the airlines will embargo animal shipments. Many commercial
shippers who are speculating in animals anyway would far prefer to take
their chances on the animal's surviving long enough for1hem to get their
money back. When we consider the exotic pet trade's principles, if that
is the name for them, we must recognize that these dealers enthusiastic-
ally speculate in shipping out infant monkeys, captured through the death
of the mother and often other members of the family. They are not
bothered either by the frightening array of diseases that monkeys can
pass on to their owners: tuberculosis, dysentery, salmonella, hepatitis,
rabies, some forms of sleeping sickness and Herpesvirus simiae of which
the following quote from a medical review will give some idea: ”Of 18
cases recently reviewed, 16 were fatal and only one of the two survivors
was able to return to a semblance of normal life". I bring out these
unpleasant facts to demonstrate the attitude of those persons in the
commercial pet trade who fight regulation.

 




-8-

Perhaps if neWSpaper and television reporters spent more time meet—
ing animal shipments, a more accurate picture would emerge. I would sub—
mit for the record this news story from the May 30, 197A Rocky Mountain
News which states in part: "A dozen baby prairie hawks from New York
were flown to Colorado Wednesday with borrowed wings and a human escort.
But - much.to the embarrassment of wildlife and airline officials — only
eight made it alive. As television cameras whirred and curious passengers
stared, State Wildlife Division biologist Jerry Craig stepped off a United
Air Lines flight at Stapleton International Airport with a cardboard box
of chirping, two-week~old birds . . . All went well as Craig opened the
box and fedgmound chicken to the four birds that rode with him in the
passenger compartment on the flight from Chicago . . . But then they
brought in a larger carton with.the remaining eight hawks, who were two
weeks older and had spent the two-hour flight in cargo section reserved
for shipment of dogs and other pets. Anxiously opening the first com-
partment of the carton, Craig turned pale when he found the two occupants
dead. A frantic inventory of the other three compartments turned up two
more dead hawks - and four dazed, but alive birds . . . . ‘It apparently
got too warmjback there (in the cargo section)‘ said an equally dazed

Craig . . . '.

 

Whether it was the temperature or some other factor, this incident
demonstrated clearly that the younger and more fragile birds made the
trip safely in the passenger compartment while their older fellows
suffered and died in the regular animal section of the aircraft. Un-
questionably, the best solution to the problems of air transportation for
animals would be to ship them in space whose atmospheric conditions are
similar to that used for human passengers. To do this would require some
lead time so that there could be a changeover to all—animal flights in
aircraft with adequate controls for temperature, humidity, and pressure;
modification of some aircraft animal compartments or use of aircraft which
does already have certain compartments apart from the passenger sections
which have similar controls. We would suggest that a two-year period to
provide for such a change might be appropriate.

To turn to another part of H.R. lSBhB, the provision requiring pups
to be eight weeks of age or more before being shipped, I would submit
the ”Availability List" from an outfit known as K-9 Association, Box 8081,
Kansas City, Mo. éullh. The animals described as "younger puppies" appear
toward the bottom of the list. Many of them are only two or three weeks
old. There is no indication as to when they would be shipped.

The Society for Animal Protective Legislation supports the requirement
for a minimum age of eight weeks as already required by Connecticut law,
and would prefer to see it set at ten or twelve weeks to help these young
animals to be better able to withstand the arduous journeys many of them
will have to make.

We also wish to emphasize the importance of the prohibition against
C.O.D. shipments which has led to the stranding of the unfortunate victims.

Handling of animals by REA Express is the subject of much complaint.
I would submit a recent clipping from the Ju1y 2h, 197M Oklahoma City
Times Action Line column as follows: "I have a claim with REA Express in

 

 




-9-

the amount of $585 for some dogs they shipped for me to New York. The
dogs were mishandled and kept for three days and when the crate came
back some of them were dead. I would like some word on what they plan
to do on this claim. Mrs. E.S.

"Irvin Greenbaum, assistant claims manager for REA in Sacramento,
California, says your claim has not been forgotten but the company still
is checking into the situation. When the decision is made on the claim,
you will be notified, he promises. He says four of the eight dogs you
shipped to the company in New York were rejected by the company and re—
turned to the REA office here, but that you were not notified immediately
because the company did not have your phone number".

Reports submitted by USDA to Senator Bellmon and placed by him-in
the Congressional Record October 3, 1973 show the great need for increased
authority to regulate shipment of livestock by air:

 

”1. On May 3, 1970, 307 young calves were loaded in Boston, Massa-
chusetts, for export to Greece. Everything went wrong. The export veteri-
nary inspections were made at a facility at Acushnet, Massachusetts, and
the calves were trucked to the Boston Airport in double~decked trucks.
One of the upper decks gave way, and a number of calves in the lower deck
were killed or injured. Loading of the calves into containers (3—calf
containers) was made in the open in cold, rainy weather. The airline had
promised that loading would take place under cover but did not comply. A
delay of 5 hours occurred at Frankfurt, Germany, where the crew left the
plane with doors closed and no auxiliary ventilation provided. Upon
unloading in Greece, 50 calves were dead and 20 more died in the next few
days. The shipment was met by the Greek Minister of Agriculture and our
Agricultural attache. Our Washington office did not hear of this disaster
for nearly a year, and while a report was requested from the airline, it
has not materialized.

”2. On February 7, 1973, 10 bred Holstein—Friesian heifers and 360
Holstein heifer calves, 3 months of age, were loaded on a DOB-63F at
O'Hare International Airport, Chicago, Illinois, for export to Italy.

Upon arrival in Milan, Italy A? of the calves were dead. According to the
consignee and an Italian veterinarian, the animals apparently died from
suffocation (lack of oxygen).

"3. On July 2, 1973, 239 mixed Charolais bull calves, averaging
326 pounds, were loaded at St. Petersburg, Florida, on a Boeing 707 for
export to Italy. Ten positions were double-decked and three were single-
decked pens. Loading the aircraft was not made in accordance with
Department recommendations. Upon arrival for refueling at J.F. Kennedy
International Airport, Sh head were dead, 2 were blind (thought to be due
to brain damage from lack of oxygen), one had a broken leg, and S were
down and unable to rise. Most of the animals that died were in the upper
deck. It was reported(and later confirmed) that the air-conditioning
ground unit attached to the aircraft broke down 2 hours before loading was
completed. Upon arrival at JFK, the captain was annoyed and reported that
something was wrong with the calves and that the temperature had reached
1880 P3 The balance of the calves was unloaded and placed in a paddock
adjacent to the "Animalport" of the ASPCA with feed and water. In the

 




-10-

evening, 175 head of calves were loaded and according to our Agricultural
Attache in Rome, arrived in Milan in good condition".

If some calves actually survived a temperature of 188 degrees F.,
that is, most assuredly, not a reason for subjecting them or any other
animal to transport in parts of aircraft which lack the means to control
extreme temperatures. Betting on the stoicism and endurance of animals
has gone on long enough. It is time to call a halt. If we can’t move
animals decently, they shouldn't be moved. If it costs more to move
them decently, the price must be paid.

It is hardly necessary to document the suffering undergone by live»
stock in transit by truck, but I would submit a recent example to focus
attention on the horse-meat trade which seems to be particularly abusive:
"According to state police, Melvin Gain, 32, of Tansboro, N.J., was
transporting l8 ponies in a 20-foot trailer. Police said the trailer
was badly overcrowded and that some of the animals rode with their heads
hanging out of a window. One of these animals was injured because his
head kept swinging against the trailer, according to police. The entire
truckload was reportedly being taken to a Hartford slaughterhouse . . .".

(New Haven Register, July 23, l97h)

 

In considering the enforcement of the act over the past eight years,
we believe that the initial impact was substantial; however, we are dis-
appointed with the degree of progress to date. A film documenting condi—
tions in a New York Laboratory a year ago demonstrates the urgent need
for better enforcement of existing law and regulations, and for improve-
ments in the regulations and the law itself. We are confident that the
Congress did not have a minimum as low as this in mind when the members
unanimously voted to pass the Animal Welfare Act. Adequate veterinary care,
adequate sanitation, adequate space, are all clearly lacking in this
animal room. It also suggests the urgent need to include birds among the
warm-blooded animals designated by the Secretary in order to deal with
extreme overcrowding.

Violations documented in the film in the order of their appearance
include: 1) Inadquate pest control. (3.6(d)),2) Failure to contain the
animals (3.u(a)), 3) Apparent lack of adequate veterinary care (3.8h(a)).

Cages for dogs as shown in the film are larger than they were before
passage of the Act. The size conforms, to all appearances, with the
regulations. But the need of the dogs to get out of the cages should be
clear to all who view the film. We trust that the bill will be amended
to include exercise among its stated standards so that it will no longer
be possible to block action on regulations which should have been adopted
eight years ago when the Laboratory Animal Welfare Act, P.L. 89-Shh, was
passed.

In recent testimony (August 5, 197A, U.S. Eepartment of the Interior
hearings on "Injurious Wildlife") the cost of monkeys was cited as $h50
each. It seems strange that such expensive experimental animals should
be given no better care and housing than that shown in the film.

 




~11-

An Animal welfare Institute analysis of the annual reports of
registered research facilities indicates very uneven reporting. It would
be impossible for Congress to ascertain from even the closest examination
of these reports whether or not the purposes of the Animal Welfare Act
were being achieved with respect to laboratory animals. The manner in
which the forms ask for information needs change. In particular,
anesthetic, analgesic and tranquilizing drugs should not be lumped together
in a way which makes it appear that if any one of these classes of drugs
is used at any particular time, it makes it” unnecessary to use either or
both of the others at another appropriate time to keep the animal com-
fortable.

Anesthesia is necessary for an operation; analgesics and tranquilizers
are often needed after the anesthetic has worn off, but in the annual
reports from research institutions there is almost no indication that this
latter fact is recognized or practiced.

. I would submit a copy of the analysis for the use of the Subcommittee,
and, if desired, for inclusion in the record of the hearings.

Recommendations for amendments
We would suggest the following amendments to H.R. lSBhB:

1) Specific Requirement, effective six months from the date of en-
actment, that temperature be menitored in every area where animals are
held before, during, and after actual transportation, including automatic
transmission of temperature information to the individual responsible for
any operation of aircraft in which unaccompanied animals are being flown.

2) Two years from the date of enactment, atmospheric conditions
which fall within the range to which human passengers are provided, shall
be required for transportation of all warm-blooded animals.

3) Further definition, if this is necessary, to make an individual
responsible for rough handling or other mistreatment of an animal liable
under the Act. That is, it should be perfectly clear that it is not only
the airline that would be subject to fine, but the individual baggage
handler if he is directly responsible for the cruelty.

u) Addition of the word ”exercise" following the word "rest", Sec.
9, page A, line 16.

5) Substitute ”ten" for "eight", Sec. 10(c), page 5, lines 18 and El.

 




W aims

OFFICE OF THE DIRECTOR OF
UNIVERSITY HONORS
THE NORTHEAST UNDERGRADUATE

conrmtnct 0N monmcs February 23. l976

Dear Colleague:

Enclosed you will find a copy of the pre-registration packet for the Northeast
Undergraduate Conference on Bioethics which will be held at the University of
Massachusetts at Amherst on April 9-ll. The conference will offer an interest—
ing educational environment for members of the academic, professional and lay
communities, for it will be the first time that all will be afforded the op-
portunity to aggregate and address the important ethical, legal and social im-
plications of modern medicine and the life sciences. We are providing those
people attending the conference a wide array of opportunities to consider the
perplexing issues of bioethics, and we invite you to join us in our educational
campaign.

One of the more important priorities in this conference is to allow local and
national health related agencies and programs that deal with bioethical problems
to play an active role in helping to disseminate the many profound and confus-
ing questions of importance to them and of relevance to the conference. Many
organizations have responded by providing speakers, others have sent informative
material suitable for display or distribution, and others have sent various audio-
visual items. we are asking for your support in whatever way you feel you might
like to participate. The conference will be very well attended and will offer
you with a unique opportunity to educate the public about what your organization
is doing which is of importance to bioethics. Any support that is offered will
be acknowledged in our conference flyer and will, of course, be most appreciated.

I will b ~agerly awaiting your reply.

Sincerelwe .

- I
l~ S!“ ‘l '
\'\~ / W [V ltl/\ 9/\
Ira D. Singer 53
Coordinator
The Northeast Undergraduate
Conference on Bioethics

Honors Office

Machmer Hall

University of Massachusetts
Amherst, Massachusetts 01002

 




PREREGISTRATION PACKET

THE NORTHEAST UNDERGRADUATE CONFERENCE ON BIOETHICS
University of Massachusetts at Amherst

April 9-11,“1975

It is a pleasure to extend to you an invitation to join us for THE NORTHEAST

UNDERGRADUATE CONFERENCE ON BIOETHICS at the Lincoln Campus Center Complex. This
preregistration packet will provide you with a synopsis of the conference activ-.v'
ities, information regarding registration, lOdging, abstracts, topics and other
essential items that will answer most questions which you might have regarding '
the conference. ' ‘ "

THE CONFERENCE: ITS CONTENT

THE NORTHEAST UNDERGRADUATE CONFERENCE ON BIOETHICS is an exciting and
unique event as it will be the first time that undergraduates will have the oppor~
tunity to discuss, assess and share their ideas and opinions on the ethical,
legal and social implications of modern medicine and the biological sciences.
We are now receiving abstracts and requests for additional information from
people at Boston College, Boston State College, Boston University, Brown University,
City College of New York, Cornell University, Georgetown University, George
Washington University, Harvard College, Springfield College, State University of
Ne w York at Albany and Stony Brook, University of Cincinnati, Union College
and the Five Colleges (Amherst, Hampshire, Mount Holyoke, and Smith Colleges,
and the University of Massachusetts at Amherst); the list continues to grow.
Many local and national health—related agencies and organizations concerned with
bioethical issues will be participating actively in the conference. Those org-
anizations that have tentatively committed speakers include The American Cancer
Society, The Sickle Cell Research Center, The Association for The Study of Abor-
tion, and The Association for Voluntary Sterilization, all based in New York; and
The Association for Mentally Ill Children and the Boston University Center for
Law and Health Sciences, based in Boston. Individuals who will be delivering
talks include Dr. Alan Crocker, Co-Director of the Tay-Sachs Screening-Program
at The Shriver Center, Fernald State School for the-Mentally Retarded in Nal=
tham, Mass.; Dr. Eric Cassell, Clinical Professor of Public Health at Cornell
Medical Center in New York and member, Board of Directors, The Institute of Society,
Ethics and the'Life sciences; and Dr. Stanley Reiser, Assistant Professor of the
History of Medicine and Assistant Director, The Interfaculty Program in Medical

,- r
:e': 1.

 




2

' Ethics at the Harvard University Medical School.

Displays and distributed materials will be donated by these organizations and
others, including The Euthanasia Educational Council, The Foundation of Thanatology,
The Institute of Society, Ethics and the Life Sciences, The Center for Bio-
ethics at Georgetown University, The Society of Health and Human Values, The

Population Reference Bureau, Health Pac and the National Foundations of Catholic
I Physicians" Guilds.

In addition,-different audio visual-materials related to bioethics have been
supplied by the Joseph P. Kennedy, Jr. Foundation and other agencies so that .
there will be a continuous playing of  these films, tapes and casSettes. ' ‘

Recognition must of course be made to our Sponsors, the Bachelor' 5 Degree
with Individual Concentration (BDIC) Program, The University Bicentennial Committee,
The University HonOrs Program, The Department of Public Health, RecOQnized Student I
Organizations, The Student Senate, and the Pre Medical Society at the Univer51ty "

of Massachusetts and the Five College Lecture Committee, for their generous services
.and support.

THE CONFERENCE - 11$ PURPOSE 3

What is “bioethics?". This Conference will  pursue various avenues and will
focus on different topics to try and assemble a clIearer picture of what comprises

"bioethics". Throughout the conferencev it is hoped that "bioethics" can be Seen

in its broadest scope. Among others, some major issues of concern in  bioethics
include: '

l) PERSPECTIVES AND OVERVIENS OF BIOETHICS - relationships of biomedical
science, technology and society, historical and general works, etc. ,

2) BEHAVIOR CONTROL AND MODIFICATION - psychotherapy, drugs and drug therapy,
psychosurgery, institutionalization of the mentally infirm, use of the media, M
early education, etc.

3) DEATH AND DYING - definition of death care of the dying patient, euthana sia,
prolongation of life, etc.
A) GENETICS AND SOCIETY - ”Igenetic counseling, screening, gene therapy, cloning ,
sperm banks, sex choice, eugenics, I. Q. and race, etc. .
5) HEALTH CARE DELIVERY AND NONEN' S HEALTH- right to health, national health
insurance, doctor~patient relationship, aging, women' s health movement, etc. _ .
6) HUMAN EXPERINENTATION AND INFORMED CONSENT - experimentation on chi ldren, 7
fetuses, mental pati gets and prisoners, policy gu1del1nes, etc. 'I
7) POPULATION CONTROL POLICIES - abort1on,_ster1l1zat1on, contraception, etc.
8)EDUCATLQNNL INNOVATIONS IN BIOETHICS — teaching and research programs, etc.

 




ABSTRACTS AND GUIDELINES FOR PRESENTATIONS AND PROJECTS
The deadline for submitting abstracts is MARCH l, l976 (this is an
extension of the original deadline of February 25, l976). Abstracts should
describe the papers or outline the project. The author's name, address, phone
number , school, major and expected graduation year should be given Multiple
authors or project directors are acceptable but it should be made evident who
serves as correspondent.
All abstracts will be reviewed by judges, primarily Five College faculty
who are familiar with the topic. Comments and decisions will be forwarded as
the abstracts are received.
Those people delivering papers should prepare a fifteen to twenty minute
talk. Group discussion will follow. Speakers are entouraged to accompany their'
talks with slides, transparencies or other media aids. If such aids are needed,
this should be brought to our attention
Those people developing projects may choose from various time schedules,
ranging froma continuous showing for a display, to one half or one hour fora
workshop. As this varies with each project, one should state how much time will be a
needed for the presentation. '
The abstracts will be printed and distributed to all registrants at the
time of the conference.‘ _.. __

 

MANUSCRIPTS
MANUSCRIPTS ARE NOT REQUIRED. He had originally planned to  publish the
'manu$cripts, but our resources will not permit this.

REGISTRATION
Registra-tion tests are as follows:

l) Five College students (Amherst, Hampshire, Mount Holyoke and Smith Colleges, _
. and the University of Massachusetts at Amherst — plus the campuses at - . .‘“

Boston and Worcester). $5.00.

2) Other students - $7300.

3) Non-students -‘$9. 00,.

Your early preregistration for the conference will tell us how many participants
to plan for so we can be better organized to receive you.

Registration materials can be picked up Thursday evening, April 8, in the
Campus Center Hotel Lobby from 4: 00 PM until 8. 00 PM. On subsequent days, ‘
registration materials can be picked up from 8:30 AM to 4: 00 PM at the conference
registration booth on the first floor of the Campus Center.

LODGING
For ledging, you have two choices: ,
l) Students who have preregistered and requested housing will be heused
FREE OF CHARGE in the dorms, apartments or houses of students from the Five
Collegesﬁﬁ TWis arrangement is a nice idea because not only will it save you
money, but we th1nk it; w1ll be fun too. We ask that you tell us two things:
a) when will you arrive for the conference? 1
b) How long will you be staying?
These items can be checked off on the specially enclosed preregistration form.
To be assured housing, we ask that you contact us by March TD, 1976. .

Student lodging will be available from Thursday nights AP”1 8 to Saturday
night, April lO. Me strongly advise you to bring a sleeping bag' . .

 

 




2) Students or any other professionals or laypersons wishing to stay in a-
‘motel have a variety of choices (reserve your rooms early):

Campus Center Hotel

Plush. Located in the Campus Center Complex, the site of thdiconference.
Rooms have been reserved specifically for the conference. (413) 549-6000.
Single — $l5.00, Double - $20.00, Triple — $23.00. If you Wish to stay at the
Campus Center Hotel, please check off accordingly on the specially enclosed
preregiStration form by March l0. 1
University Motor Lodge

Plush. 345 North Pleasant Street, Amherst. Distance - .7 mi. (413) 256-8lll.
Single — $l7.00, Double - $22.00, Triple — $26.00.
Lord Jeffery Inn

Plush. 30 Boltwood Ave., Amherst. Distance - l.3 mi. (413)'253-2576.
Single - $l5.00, Double - $22.00.
Windjammer Motor Inn

Hotel. [Plush. l0 Belchertown Road, Amherst. Distance - 2.2 mi. (413) 256-6426.
Single — $l4.00, Double - $l6.00, Triple - $22.00.
Howard Johnson's Motor Lodge

Plush. 401 Russell Street, Hadley. Distance - 2.7 mi. (413)‘586-o114.

 

 

Single a $15.00, Double - $23.00, Triple - $27.00.
Amherst Motel '

 

406 Northampton Road, Amherst. Distance — 2.4 mi. (Al3) 256-8l22.
Single - $l4.80, Double — $l9.80, Triple ~ $23.25. (tax included)
Country Belle Motel ,

Route 9, Hadley. Distance - 3 mi. (4l3) 586-07l5. Single - $l0.80, Double —
$l4.00, Triple — $l6.00.

 

MEALS AND ENTERTAINMENT

The University of Massachusetts and the Five College area provide an
overwhelming abundance of eating places and evening entertainment. Within the
University's Campus Center Complex itself there are four eating places and a
student—run food cooperative in the adjoining Student Union. At night, a wide
array of dancing, drinking, films and the like can be found at the University
and throughout the whole Five College area. Additional information will be
available_during the conference.

PARKING
Parking is available at the Campus Center. The rate is $1.50 per 24 hour
PéYiod for those staying in the Campus Center Hotel. For others, a nominal hourly

 




rate will be charged.

ACCESS TO AMHERST

l) By car
From the West:

a.) Massachusetts Turnpike (1—90) east to Exit 4, left fork after toll booths.
north on 1-91 to Route 9 (Exit l9), right on Rt. 9 to second lights, left on
Route 116, right at University exit.

OR
b.) Rt. 9 east, left on Rt. 116, right at University exit.

0R

c.) Rt. 2 east to 1» 9T, south to Rt. ll6, left on Rt. l16 to University exit.
From the East:

a.) Massachusetts Turnpike (1-90) to Exit 4, left fork after toll booths, I-9l

north to Rt. 9 (exit 19), right on Rt. 9 to second lights, left on Rt. ll6 to

University exit.

0R

b.) Massachusetts Turnpike to Exit 8 (Palmer), left on Rt. 32, follow "University

of Massachusetts" signs to Rt. TBT, right on Rt. 181 to 202, straight ahead on Rt. 202

to Rt. 9, left on Rt. 9 to Amherst.

OR

c.) Rt. 2 west to Rt. 202, right on Rt. 202 to "Route 9 and ll6 access- Amherst"
sign, right at sign to Amherst.

.) By bus
Bus service direct to the University of Massachusetts is available from Boston,
Hartford, New York City, Springfield, Worcester, and Bradley International Airport.

OTHER ITEMS

A conference schedule will be mailed by the third week of March to those people
who have preregistered. ,

For further information, please write or call:

Ira D. Singer/ Honors Program/ Machmer E- 23/ University of MassachusettS/
Amherst, Massachusetts 01002 .
Phone: (413) 545—2483

 




PREREGISTRATION SHEET

Please fill out this form completely and send it with a check or money order to
cover registration costs, payable to the NORTHEAST UNDERGRADUATE CONFERENCE ON BIOETHICS
to:

The Northeast Undergraduate Conference on Bioethics
c/o Ira D. Singer, Coordinator

Honors Program, Machmer E-23

University of Massachusetts

Amherst, Massachusetts 01002

Five College Students and

students from UMass, Boston Non-

and Worcester $5.00 Other students $7.00 students $9.00
Name: - _ Telephone No.
Address: School and subject studied or profession:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

PARTICIPATION

l.) I will be making a presentation and have or will be submitting an abstract

2.) I will not be making a presentation (observer only)

3.) If you are making a presentation, will you require any audiovisual aids (projectors,
overheads, etc.)? yes no

4.) If yes, what audiovisual aids will you need?

 

HOUSING
l.) I would like to take advantage of the jrgg_student housing. yes
2.) If yes, a) When will you arrive for the conference?
b) How long will you be staying?
3.) I wish to reserve a room at the Campus Center Hotel. *~*__yes
4.) If yes, a) When will you arrive for the conference?
b) How long will you be staying?
c) What type of room would you like to reserve?
__"*_Single, $15.00/day *“”“_Double, $20.00/day _____Triple, $23.00/day

 

 

 

If you have any additional questions or comments, please use the other side if this

paper for them.

 




 

 

I”, “5"”"’ '4‘” r .W "r

,9. ,w
‘ ‘wi'm . m6-

~k/v
.L
Li)“.

.* ‘L In
3:13;? I if; 4
y ‘ l
» "TINY"! m' WM *2 , I7
W: . ILJLIHLHJJ LIE? I
1 / . ‘

 

 

NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH SCIENCES
RESEARCH PROGRAMS

 

 




 

 

 

 

 




NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH SCIENCES
RESEARCH PROGRAMS 1975-1976

DHEW Publication No. (NIH) 76—932

 




. //=§§3!."'3\' , ,. 1
:lfz’ng/"W @333 -.

\\

\‘o
. 3 , L334
. g ,.

-‘.‘ WWI.” ' L

I _

L3%~‘L-

\L\ ‘ ‘5‘ '3‘. ‘
16/931333 3

‘\
[3 -

-.:
.’ ~
.' ,

33¢":- ' ,
333' -
'3'
I3

3

 

‘\\~
FL

\

'/

 

.' W ,,

3333,1333 .~ ..
3 l
3

Hm
I.

 

 

33:,

3
‘3
f

at.

W

. .._ 3 .v .1 ¢ , fie-:auvw

/

I: 3 33 39.3

1 ‘3. 4 ,' {3“ . r__'|m”l3.3" nub“ 3""
"(szﬂl3'll/f/llﬂ\\W//////.7////II’ 4 3f 2 3 ‘3
. . “\r 2 " ‘I!& ‘3'

 

w

_.
.—

#-

 

I " I, v ’ o
I' I ’0':
’1‘ "“11‘5‘HL
.( .ll-u '.,.

’ , - . I I, N ‘ - V?" V
' '1'??? " ,- 3- ~ - L

INTRODUCTION

 




4".

In recent times the American public has come to believe
the apparent price of progress and an over-expanding
technology is deterioration of man’s surroundings and
hazards to his health.

This belief has been instilled by reports such as those
relating cancer to DDT, birth defects to 2,4,5—T, and
neurological disease to methyl mercury. At best, these
reports have created a new public awareness of and concern
for man’s increasingly hostile chemical environment. At
worst, they have created the feeling in some Americans
that the only hope for man’s future lies in halting all
technological development.

In between lie the great majority of Americans who are
looking to biomedical research and the Government to
protect them from these new public health hazards as they
have protected them from the public health hazards in the
past.

Throughout the following pages, you will read how
NIEHS is striving to advance fundamental knowledge of
effects of environmental agents—chemical, physical, and
biologic—on man’s health so these effects can be pre-
vented. As you read some of our accomplishments, we
hope you will gain a better understanding of environmen-
tal health problems confronting each of us.

David P. Rall

Director

National Institute of
Environmental Health Sciences

 




Page

CONTENTS NIEHS Research Programs—An Overview .......... 5

Intramural Research Branches

Environmental Biology and Chemistry ............ 6
Environmental Biometry ....................... 11
Environmental Biophysics ...................... 15
Environmental Mutagenesis ..................... 19
Environmental Toxicology ...................... 27
Pharmacology ................................ 3 5
Contract Research .............................. 43
Extramural Research ............................ 45
Technological Surveillance ........................ 51
Liaison ....................................... 53

International Activities .......................... 55

 




OVERVIEW

New forms of energy production, expanded uses of known
energy sources, greater development of the chemical process
industry and, particularly, the petrochemical industry (the
United States now reproduces the body weight of each American
citizen in plastics each year), all pose the real threat of releasing
toxic chemicals into the environment.

Recent experiences with vinyl chloride, bischloromethyl
ether, methyl butyl ketone, and sulfuric acid mist from exhausts
of 1975 automobiles indicate that these compounds are not
theoretical threats but known causes of illness and death.

The current breadth of NIEHS program activities is illus—
trated in the subjects of its research projects. These range from
the respiratory toxicity of antiperspirants and Red Tide,
through the mechanism and comparative pharmacology of
epoxide formation of environmental chemicals, to the effects of
prenatal exposure to diethylstilbestrol (DES) on the reproduc-
tive development of mice, the interaction of acetylaminofluorine
(AAF) with DNA repair synthesis, the development of spot tests
for mutations in Neurospora, the effects of non-ionizing radia-
tion on quail egg development, and the construction of models

to permit extrapolation from the results of exposure of small
populations of animals to high doses of chemicals to the ex—
pected results of exposure of large populations to small doses of
these chemicals.

As we approach the end of the first decade of the Institute’s
existence, it is clear that the Nation’s problems in environmen-
tal health have grown in number, intensity, and variety. Addi-
tionally, it is clear that our view of our mission must grow if we
are to continue to be responsive to the expanding National need
in this area.

NIEHS must perform the biomedical research necessary to
understand mechanisms of toxicity; to identify susceptible and
resistant subsets of the population; to develop, validate, and
interpret new methods to detect toxicity; and, in general, to
provide the bridge between basic biomedical research charac-
teristic of the typical NIH laboratory and applied test—oriented
research carried out under sponsorship of regulatory agencies.
The proliferation of new chemical compounds makes it manda—
tory that NIEHS keep pace with the continuing industrial as-
sault on the public health.

 




‘ /‘\\\“"\V[I ‘

, \. - .i
s0 s

‘ﬁ

/

‘V'T‘.’“\ ‘ ’ ’

‘\

\V‘

,, (’xxw

 

 

ENVIRONMENTAL BIOLOGY
AND CHEMISTRY BRANCH

The Environmental Biology and Chemistry Branch focuses on
three objectives: to maintain collaborative support laboratories
in the disciplines of chemistry, microbiology, pathology, his—
tology and electron microscopy, and veterinary medicine; to
program and coordinate experimental animal procurement,
housing, and utilization within the Institute; and to plan and
conduct research appropriate to the capabilities of Branch lab-
oratories. .

Administratively, the Environmental Biology and Chemistry
Branch is organized into three Sections: Chemistry, Compara-
tive Biology, and Animal Husbandry. OperationaUYa the
utilization of rigid Section structure to achieve Branch objec.‘
tives is not fostered. Speciﬁc work units—the size and composr
tion of each being determined by task requirementS---0ften
draw personnel from two or three Sections. Narratives of work
unit activities are presented where appropriate as they portray
these efforts in a more comprehensible format.




Support Activities

Chemists frequently are consulted within NIEHS to advise
scientists in appropriate areas of their research. The support
activities of the Chemistry Section ﬂuctuate dependent upon
resources required to meet particular needs. In this respect, the
Section is striving to develop fully both analytical and synthetic
resources for labeled and unlabeled compounds to support di-
verse intramural research programs. The Section needs to ex—
pand its capabilities in the area of inorganic analysis to support
diverse studies in bioinorganic chemistry with emphasis on
heavy metals. In addition, the Section should begin to explore
electrochemistry for determining both inorganics and organics
in biological samples.

A major reevaluation of animal support activities commenced
during the past year and is expected to continue into the next
year. To this end, we plan to restrict the number of animal
models available at NIEHS and develop resident research col-
onies of inbred mice. Restricting animal models available for
general research use to specific species and strains from specific
sources will allow development of effective transportation
modes, reduce costs, better utilize animal rooms, and result in a
more effective quality control program through more frequent
and extensive evaluation.

Three inbred mice strains will be available for general NIEHS
use. These strains—C57B 1/6, DEA/2, and (EH—will each
originate from one genetic foundation stock. They will be cesar—

ean derived, given a stable bacterial ﬂora, expanded in number
through one generation, and supplied to NIEHS. Population
expansion through an additional generation will be effected in
rigidly controlled conditions with resultant progeny available
for intramural research. Systematic repopulation of the N IEHS
colony will produce inbred mice that are reliably disease-free
through management control of the cesarean derivation process,
physiologically stable by virtue of conception birth and de-
velopment within the NIEHS environment, and not sublined.

Research requirements on the part of a number of scientists
led to the formation of a rodent breeding and reproduction
technical unit within the Animal Husbandry Section. This unit
now produces desired quantities of dated pregnant mice and
rats.

Analytical biochemistry and metabolism and organic chemis—
try and synthesis are areas that rely heavily on specialty in-
strumentation such as gas chromatography-infrared spectros-
copy, high pressure liquid chromatography, and a variety of
instruments for detecting and measuring radioactivity. In the
synthesis area, unlabeled syntheses are requested more fre-
quently, and the more difficult include desoxy NAD+ , 3,4,5,
3’,4’,3’—hexachlorobiphyenyl in pure form and hydroxylated de-
rivatives, and phenathrene oxide.

The mass spectrometry center is continually developing
methodology for qualitative analytical application to biological

 




 

samples which contain residue levels of environmental agents.
Of particular interest is the use of selective reagent gases in
chemical ionization mass spectrometry.

Preliminary work indicates that diacetyl may be a suitable
reagent for this purpose. Mass spectrometry is useful generally
for determining “chemical appearances” of environmental
agents for possible correlation with biological activity.

The nuclear magnetic resonance facility likewise is develop—
ing methodology for qualitative application to biological sam-
ples as well as chemical reaction products. Preliminary studies
with 13C-enriched benzene have indicated that nuclear magnetic
resonance may be useful in at least qualitatively determining
metabolism by means of analyses of body ﬂuids and tissues of
their crude extracts and homogenates. The value of 13C-
enriched compounds in elucidating mechanisms of lipophilicity
and carcinogenicity is being investigated.

High pressure liquid chromatography is being used increas-
ingly to support diverse metabolism, chemical purity, and other
studies. It was useful particularly in examining purity of some
progesterone steroid derivatives and for measuring partition
coefficients of hexachlorobiphenyl isomers.

Research Activities

The Chemistry Section focuses on four major research in-
volvements which use specific classes of chemical compounds as

models to develop general methodology of value to environmen-
tal health scientists. One involvement concerns development of
a radioimmunoassay method—which will be bOth highly sensi-
tive and specific—for 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p—dioxin
(TCDD). Because chlorinated dibenzodioxins may occur in as—
sociation with many extensively used chlorinated aromatic com-
pounds and because the 2,3,7,8-tetrachloro isomer is one of the
most toxic chemicals known, a sensitive and specific analytical
method which is both economical and convenient is needed. To
date, suitable haptens of TCDD (l—amino and its succinic acid
amide derivative) have been prepared. Using a model compound
(4—amino-4’-chlorobiphenyl), two methods of hapten protein
convalent bonding (antigen), namely the carbodiimide and
diazo reactions, have been examined. The diazo method was
successful in preparing an antigen of l-amino TCDD whiCh
remains to be fully characterized.

A second model (2,3,5,6—tetrachloroaniline) is being used t0
develop the N-hydroxy succinimide activated ester method for
antigen’preparation. Preliminary immunology has begun in col-
laboration with the Comparative Biology Section with the
diazo—type antigen and its reduced form (hydrazine linkage)'

Hexachlorinated biphenyl studies are aimed at correlating the
PhYSical-Chemical properties of polychlorinated biphenyls
(PCBs) with their toxicological properties. The biological activ-
ltY 0f ﬁVe Symmetrical hexachlorobiphenyl isomers was shOWn

 




to correlate reasonably well with their retention indices as meas—
ured by gas chromatography. This activity can be more directly
correlated with their lipophilicity as measured by tissue uptake.
Physical—chemical data as measured spectroscopically supported
the importance of 3 (and 3) and 4 substitution of chlorine for
high polarity and lipophilicity. More recent studies have indi—
cated the 3,4,S,3’,4’,5’—isomer to be highly active at 100 ppm,
while a hydroxylated derivative (2-OH) was relatively inactive
at 10 and 30 ppm. These studies permit differentiation between
a dibenzofuran and a PCB effect.

Studies are underway on the capabilities of various tissue
lipases and esterases as early mediators in the interaction be—
tween mammals and xenobiotics containing ester linkages. It is
of particular interest to understand how lipases are able to bind
to and react with water-insoluble compounds such as the her-
bicides 2,4-D and 2,4,5-T, phthalate plasticizers, carbamate
insecticides, and others, and also if this hydrolytic process is
always detoxifying. Rat lung, skin, and pancreas homogenates
show distinctive patterns for hydrolytic activity. A procedure
for purifying the micelle lipase from rat pancreas has been de-
veloped, and characterization of the lipase is in progress. The
mechanism is being studied by 18O—enriched water experi—
ments. The apparent Km is independent of the nature of the
ester substrate, and is dependent only on the type of bile salt
used to form micelles. Vmax was dependent upon the sub-

strate.

The biomimetric ability of certain well defined (mechanisti—
cally) chemical reactions is being studied. In this work the
chlorinated polycyclodiene pesticides are being used as models
to study the dechlorination process. Dechlorination can occur
environmentally under a variety of conditions, namely photo-
chemically, chemically, biologically, and under gamma-
irridating conditions. Some of these conditions have been shown
to accomplish regio—specific and stereoselective reductive de-
chlorination as well as lead to partial molecular skeletal re—
arrangement. Whether or not these processes are detoxifying in
view of the possible formation of compounds related to vinyl
chloride and chlorinated aromatics is being considered.

Many of the specific research projects within the Compara-
tive Biology Section interrelate to compose a larger program
that focuses on the effect of environmental agents on host resis—
tance. This program hopes to define test methods most appro-
priate for detecting effects as well as identify which biological
systems are involved.

The cellular and humoral components of the immune system
are a major area of study. Endocrine function also is studied to
allow a distinction to be made between direct immune effects
and immune alterations that are secondary to endocrine change.

The consequences of exposure to environmental chemicals
during immune ontogenesis continues to be studied. Is the

9

 




 

immune system more subject to deleterious effects during de—
velopment? Are immunosuppressive effects of a transient or
permanent nature? Previous Branch research has shown the
chemical TCDD to be immunosuppressive. Current experi-
ments suggest that TCDD—induced T-cell suppression may be
transient. This cell-mediated suppression also may be selective
because the hypersensitivity response to oxazalone remained se-
verely depressed. The nature and temporal consequence of these
effects continue to be investigated.

Another area of research evaluates host resistance by testing
the ability of mice to withstand challenge exposure to bacteria
or virus. Mice treated with small doses of TCDD (one tenth the
LD50) were found to have greater susceptibility to subsequent
bacterial challenge as measured by the proportion of mice that
die or by decreased survival time. This effect is not felt to be
related to an impaired immune system. The status of re—
ticuloendothelial system and phagocytic capabilities of circulat-
ing leukocytes are currently being studied.

Another model that seeks to assess the interaction of en-
vironmental compounds and development of disease is the in—
duction of tumors by avian sarcoma virus (ASV). Refinement of
the model has continued with particular focus on the correlation
of age at time of dosing and tumor incidence or time to tumor
development. Hemorrhagic cysts—often at the site of superfi-
cial lymph nodes—are seen in rats inoculated with ASV as

10

neonates. Studies with rats with these cysts find them to be
immuno-depressed.

Investigations into the patterns and nature of chlorinated
dibenzodioxin toxicity continued. A study of selected dioxin
isomers commenced using mice and guinea pigs. The single oral
LD50 dose and characterization of the toxic response primarily
by histopathologic study are being determined. With these data
we hope to evaluate the hypothesis of Poland and Glover that
relates degree and location of halogens to toxicity.

A series of systematic experiments are being conducted to
collate the interactive effects of TCDD on various physiologic
functions as these changes may contribute to thymic involution.
Results to date indicate that thymus atrophy is not secondary t0
adrenal or pituitary (somatotrophic hormone) dysfunction. RC-
duced caloric intake—~which is observed following TCDD
dosing—is not in itself the prime cause of thymic atrOPhY-

Branch personnel are collaborating with the Veterinary R6-
sources Branch, Division of Research Services, NIH, in at—
tempting to characterize and define the cause of a fatal wasting
disease in Macaw; malaria monkeys The similarity of the disease
process to that produced by chlorinated cyclic hydrocarbons
such as polychlorinated biphenyl or dibenzodioxin, is (1111“?
striking. Attempts to isolate and identify these chemicals in
tissues from affected monkeys have failed to yield them in quan—
tities that allow one to implicate them as a cause of the disease.




 

ENVIRONMENTAL BIOMETRY BRANCH

 

The Environmental Biometry Branch fulfills a dual mission,
functioning both in a service capacity to the intramural program
and as an applied research group. Statistical support for the
Institute is provided mainly for the design of experiments and in
the analysis of laboratory data. Data processing and computer
programming services are available to the research staff of the
Institute and are employed routinely by the Branch in both its
statistical applications and research work.

 




Research activity currently is being conducted in the general
areas of Statistical Methodology, Biomathematics, and
Epidemiology. The statistical research involves both develop—
ment of methodology generated from data analysis needs and
investigation of topics such as clinical trial design and low—dose

extrapolation, which are of abiding interest to NIH.
Biomathematics research is primarily collaborative, being fo-
cused mainly on mathematical modeling of biological processes.
Finally, epidemiological work is concerned with statistical
analysis of existing data bases, the emphasis being on an at-
tempt to detect environmental components and quantify their

implications upon human health.

Statistical and Programming Support

Statistical and/or programming support was provided to vir—
tually every secrion of the various branches of the intramural
program as well as to the Office of the Director during the past
twelve—month period. While the bulk of the statistical service
effort still would be classified under the general heading of data
analysis, there was a definite increase in the degree to which
various members of the Branch participated in the initial design
aspects of a number of intramural research programs. Particular
emphasis was placed on assessment of design feasibility and
coordination of study objectives with the level of Institute re-
sources available for performance of the experiment in question.

12

 

 

In addition to an increase in overall volume of statistical
analysis support requested from the Branch throughout the pre-
ceding year, there also has been an increase in the degree of
complexity of many of the problems encountered in the consult—
ing operation. An optimalization procedure based on response
surface techniques was utilized to estimate the best combination
of a host of experimental parameters to maximize in who de-
velopment of rabbit morulla. A review of existing literature on
statistical aspects of protein receptor analysis indicated that even
the most sophisticated approaches currently in use do not prop-
erly account for the true error structure of the data. Experimen—
tal observations usually are forced to conform to traditional
regression techniques which ignore variability in one of the
measured responses. Generalized non-linear regreSSiOn
techniques, which allow for appropriate weighting of both de-
pendent and independent variables, are being investigated and,
hopefully, will provide a more rigorous solution to the problem-
Analysis of data generated from a study designed to assess the
SYﬂ€tgiStiC potential of two environmental agents has raised the
question of the most appropriate means of interfacing the phat“
macological definition and the statistical analysis of synergism
or interaction. This question is of particular importance when
deallng With zero—one response or frequency—type data, when th€
usual concept of additivity may no longer be applicable. Finally,
a problem in population screening for genetic variability has




instigated an investigation of methods of combining results
from multidimensional contingency tables of varying sample
size and, in some instances, varying dimension.

The Branch has continued its policy of employing non—
parametric procedures in analyzing laboratory data whenever it
is feasible to do so, because the small sample sizes associated
with many of the experiments conducted at the Institute pre—
clude evaluation of the appropriateness of assumptions underly—
ing most parametric techniques.

As in the case with statistical consulting and data analysis,
programming support for the Institute has been expressed in a
wide variety of forms. The Branch has been instrumental in
implementing and maintaining programming support for two
computer based inventory systems. The first system is an inven—
tory, management system for the warehouse, while the second is
concerned with a periodically-updated listing of all radioactive
isotopes held at NIEHS. On the basic research level, ongoing
support is being provided to the Developmental Toxicology,
Aerotoxicology, Pharmacokinetics, and Population Genetics
Sections of the Institute’s intramural program through de—
velopment and systematic revision of computerized packages for
performing protein receptor analysis, chronic study surveil-
lance, pharmacokinetic modeling, and gene frequency deviation
detection, respectively. In addition, individual scientists in-
terested in assessing the teratogenic potential of a spectrum of

environmental agents have been assisted in their endeavors by
implementation of a highly flexible computerized system for
statistical analysis. Finally, a historical file of carcinogenic and
mutagenic screening studies readily amenable to various cross—
referencing and searching techniques is being made available.
The computer also is used extensively for simulation studies,
within the Branch as well as for other Branches.

Research Activities

In our Epidemiology Program, investigation of potential
association between various environmental factors and incidence
of anencephalic births in North Carolina was completed. State
data failed to confirm Renwick’s hypothesis that onset of
anencephalus is related to exposure to some undefined substance
in blighted potatoes. In addition, urban—rural differences in the
proportion of estimated anencephalic conceptions occurring in
various months and seasons showed no marked association with
pesticide usage.

A collaborative effort with graduate students and faculty from
the University of North Carolina Department of Epidemiology
has been inaugurated. A major goal will be to attempt to extend
relevant findings from the Institute’s intramural research pro-
gram into the human setting. One problem area currently under
investigation is concerned with the potential health hazard as-

13

 




 

sociated with trace or low levels of known or suspected carcino-
gens and/or mutagens in public drinking water sources. This
same topic is being studied independently within the Branch.

Mathematical Biology: In collaboration with the Phar-
macology Branch, research efforts in pharmacokinetics were
concentrated in two areas: investigation of the dynamic interac-
tion between the lung and circulating chemicals using the iso-
lated perfused lung system, and pharmacokinetic studies of sev—
eral polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs). Detailed models for the
dynamic interaction between the lung and several basic amines
have been developed. It has been shown that these amines not
only accumulate (i.e., produce high tissue to blood concentra—
tion ratios), but they also persist in lung tissue. In addition, it
has been demonstrated that the lung has a transport system for
removal of certain prostaglandins from circulation. Distribu—
tion, storage, metabolism, and excretion of four PCBs were
studied in the rat. The hexachloro PCB studied is stored in fat
and skin with an extremely long half—life. Pharmacokinetic
models are being developed for these compounds.

In collaboration with the Environmental Mutagenesis
Branch, mathematical models are being studied which describe
effects of migration upon gene frequencies. Specifically, branch-
ing processes are being used to determine how far a unique
neutral gene will migrate before it disappears from the popula-
tion and to determine the geographical distribution of gene

14

frequencies.

Risk Assessment: The problem of human risk estimation
based on laboratory data is being studied by the Environmental
Biometry Branch. Specific attention is given to carcinogenesis
and methods used for estimating human risk, at low environ-
mental exposure levels. Considerations of mechanism such as hit
models and multistage models are being compared. Also, the
importance of background incidence and induction time is
being evaluated. These considerations have led to the investiga—
tion of optimal experimental design.

In the area of carcinogenic screening, some inexpensive pre-
sumptive tests are being examined. In particular, use of
mutagenic agents as predictors of carcinogenesis is being
studied from a decision—theoretic Viewpoint.

pf\

RNA“




 
  
   

I

//\ ‘ Q ‘

. 1/, C”. .x ‘
‘ /‘( \W \
’ o \ : \‘ i‘/~ Q“ I ‘ i~ L
“w ‘ \ aximm~\\\\m\\;\ \
4'.‘\ \ '\ . n‘ '
I -7
../

   

\\ . ..\\

1. '7,“
<\\ I .W.
\

 
   
   

    

         
  
    
  
   
  
  
 

/‘ i I' , W ’ ‘ I . k "\
,/- vlﬂgiuV/ﬁiw/vii‘ "’" r ‘ " W ill-c
, .\\ ', , ‘ / l . lk/lﬂ ' -
l . \\:’“\\t’r/A\\\\\‘ {\“\‘\\\;'/¢l\<\ §§§A\ . l ' \ ‘
is)
1;:

A \
v

    
   

 

/ K. \- i »
.xaxiri'\\\’/./:</(«<./riaxmlwm -7157):
’ ,. '(\\. ‘. 1‘ .\<9;¢~M,IW1-.\’
\\\\\
I

“)(g’l’NVIRONMENTAL
)‘é BIOPHYSICS BRANCH

’1 Major research efforts of the Environmental Biophysics
Branch focus on (1) developing a better understanding of
mechanisms of temporary and permanent shifts of the threshold
of hearing following exposure to noise and/or other ototoxic
agents; (2) developing insight into some of the non-auditory
effects of noise exposure; (3) developing nonionizing radiation

. exposure systems and dosimetry techniques, and determining

non-thermal and thermal effects of nonionizing radiation on
biological systems; and (4) developing theoretical models for

A predicting dose-response relationships and experimentally test-

ing models at low dose and low dose rates.

15

 




 

Research Activities

Noise research conducted and supported by NIEHS is an
integral component of its overall effort to determine what fac-
tors in the environment, operating singly or in combination,
adversely affect man’s health. General objectives of the NIEHS
noise effects program are to increase understanding of
physiological, biochemical, and electroneural mechanisms, the
disruption of which by noise and other ototoxic agents leads to
the cellular and neural damage which characterizes permanent
hearing loss; to identify various environmental chemicals,
drugs, and other agents which potentiate hearing loss from
noise and to characterize the degree and extent of additional loss
to be expected; and to investigate specific endocrine, im-
munologic, physiologic, pharmacologic, teratogenic, cardiovas-
cular, and other mechanisms which may be affected by chronic
noise exposure.

Studies have been initiated to explore the location and nature
of physiological changes underlying the temporary threshold
shift of hearing. The cochlear microphonic, whole nerve action
potential and endocochlear potential of noise—exposed guinea
pigs were examined to elicit the hearing recovery process.
Measuring the electric p0tential produced by pure test tones
following noise exposures at various sound pressure levels
showed very evident hearing threshold shifts at the lower test

16

tones and higher noise exposures with subsequent recovery. Pro—
longed noise exposure would have resulted in a permanent
threshold shift in hearing. Evidence gained from the temporary
threshold shift data will be useful for predicting a permanent
hearing loss over an extended pressure time. The next step will
be to measure the temporary threshold shift caused by exposure
to ototoxic antibiotics, alone and in combination with noise.

Studies also are underway to confirm the ototoxicity of
methyl mercury and relate this to the resulting concentrations of
methyl mercury found in the cochlear fluids.

A piezoelectric transducer has been developed which, when in
direct contact with the ossicular chain, can impart highly d6-
fined signals including language into the cochlea. This device
avoids the necessity for complex microphonic measurements Of
sound pressure levels at the tympanic membrane. Concurrently
under development are more sensitive methods for measuring

dlsplacement of waveform of the oss1cular chain and basilar
membrane.

Acute noise exposure has been shown to markedly affect vari-
ous hormone secretions. Immunological function can be affecte
by altered levels of certain hormones. Studies are being con-
ducted to detect suppression or stimulation of cell-mediated
Immunity in noise—exposed rodents. Early data shows some SUP'
pression 0f 1YmPhOCyte production following noise exposure.

 




General objectives of the microwave research program are
to develop additional microwave exposure techniques with con-
tinuous wave, pulsed wave, and modulated wave delivery modes
and known field characteristics; to develop dosimetric
techniques (both instrumental and analytical) and to design and
build a system to evaluate electrical properties of biological
material; and to investigate the biophysical mechanisms of in—
teraction of continuous wave, pulsed, and modulated microwave
radiation of frequencies 1 to 10 GHz on biological material.
Effects at the cellular and molecular level will be studied by
exposing various bacteria and bacteriophage systems and by
exposing mammalian red and white blood cells. Other objec—
tives are to evaluate the effects of continuous wave and pulsed
2.45 GHz microwave radiation on embryonic development and
reproduction by (a) exposing the developing japanese quail em-
bryos to various levels of microwave radiation throughout the
gestation period, (b) exposing pregnant mice throughout the
gestation period to low level (10 mW/cm2) radiation, and (c)
determining the effects on reproduction of the quail and mice
obtained in (a) and (b) by maintaining the offspring to sexual
maturity and mating them; and to study the effects of continu-
ous wave and pulsed 2.43 GHz microwave radiation on the
development of the immunological response by testing the quail
and mice exposed during development for resistance to infection
and antibody production. Additionally, the scientists in the

microwave research program hope to investigate the effects of
continuous wave, pulsed, and modulated microwave radiation
at frequencies of l to (31-12 on the functioning of the central
nervous system and behavior by determining the effects of
stimulus time-duration thresholds for producing an action po-
tential and on the conduction velocity of the action potential
along the nerve; studying the effects of the radiation on reflex
response and synaptic transmission in the cat; and supporting
contract research on the effects of long—term (chronic), low-level
microwave exposure on behavior, EEG, and the neuroendocrine
system.

During the past year, work has concentrated on determining
nonthermal effects of microwave radiation at 2450 MHz.
Studies on effects of microwave radiation on cell systems, em-
bryo development, and neural response have been the major
efforts. Experiments on DNA denaturation, bacteria replica-
tion, and bacteria-bacteriophage systems have been conducted.
Maintaining the biological systems at their viable temperature
during exposure has resulted in no change in the exposed as
compared to the control systems for the end points investigated.
Exposures of rabbit and human erythocytes and lymphocytes in
vitro are in progress.

Embryo developmental effects have been studied using de—
veloping japanese quail embryo as the test system. Exposures of
the embryo for four hours each of the first five days of develop—

l7

 




 

18

ment and 24 hours on the second day of development have not
produced any gross deformities. Hatched birds from the groups
exposed on day two of development have slightly lower hemo—
globin levels. Experiments to expose the developing embryo
throughout the entire development period (14 days) now are in
progress. No hatching has occurred in the groups exposed to
85—120 m\7(//cm2 using 2450 MHZ radiation even though the
embryos were maintained at or near incubating temperature
(37°C). Exposure levels will be decreased until hatching does
occur.

Studies on the effects of 2450 MHz microwave radiation on
neural function were begun during the year. Some research has
been performed in determining the effects of exposure of the
spinal cord of cats on the reﬂex response of synaptic transmis—
sion. The exposure power density level was 10 mW/cmz. Pre-
liminary results show a small but statistically significant in-
crease in the magnitude of the neural response. These studies
will be continued at higher exposure intensities to determine if
the effect increases with an increase in exposure levels.

Research is needed to determine biological effects resulting
from low level chronic exposures for both continuous and pulsed
radiation. Very little work is presently being performed at these
conditions due to the time and expense required. Until these
results are obtained, questions relating to the potential hazards
of nonionizing radiation will continue to be unanswered regard—

less of the results from short—term experiments.

Theoretical-mathematical modeling of the effects of ionizing
radiation at the cellular level has been performed. The theoreti-
cal model agrees with experimental cell survival curves available
in the literature. Experimental work is needed to specifically
test the model under low dose, low dose rate conditions. Such
work currently is being considered through the contract
mechanism.

Development of respiratory tract deposition models in
hamsters, rats, beagle dogs, and man is being performed by
contract. Work includes development of theoretical deposition
models, construction of physical models, and field evaluation of
the physical-theoretical models. This phase of the contract work
is expected to be completed in Fiscal Year 1976.

 




 

ENVIRONMENTAL
MUTAGENESIS BRANCH

The primary objective of the lnstitute’s program in
mutagenesis is focused on evaluating and defining risks to both
human somatic and germinal tissue resulting from exposure to
genetically active environmental chemicals. To this end, the
Environmental Mutagenesis Branch was organized late in Fiscal
Year 1972.

Because of the worldwide shortage of resources for rapid de-
velopment of research in various problem areas associated with
environmental mutagenesis, the Branch has used a variety of
approaches to accomplish its objective. These include develop-
ment of: an intramural research program divided into five main
areas, a coordinated national program in environmental
mutagenesis, better communication and coordination at the in-
ternational level, better mechanisms for information exchange,
and better mechanisms for training young scientists for research
careers in environmental mutagenesis.

The five main areas which form the Branch’s intramural re-
search program include the Microbial and Plant Genetics Sec-
tion, the Somatic Cell Genetics Section, the Biochemical
Genetics Section, the Mammalian Genetics Section, and the
Population Genetics and Epidemiology Section.

19

 




 

Research Activities

Although the Environmental Mutagenesis Branch has been
organized for a brief period, considerable progress has been
made in its intramural research program. The major research
accomplishments of this program’s five sections follow.

The Microbial and Plant Genetics Section has made con—
siderable progress in development and improvement of simple
and comprehensive tests for gene mutations and other types of
genetic damage in microorganisms. A spot test system for de-
tecting reserve mutations at the cad—3 locus of Neurospom (mm;
has been developed. Various tester strains have been selected
that exhibit sensitivity to various types of chemical mutagens.
This rapid assay will complement the dd—3 forward mutation
system earlier developed by Branch investigators which has been
used to test the mutagenicity of several antischistosomal agents,
chemical carcinogens, and a wide variety of environmental
chemicals. These studies are designed primarily as structure-
function analyses to determine the correlation between types of
genetic damage induced by compounds of similar structure.

Studies also are continuing on repair-deficient strains of
Neurospora. There is similarity in the spontaneous mutation
rate at the 451-3 locus with both wild-type and repair—deficient
strains; however, with x—irridation, the repair-deficient strain
required a 5— to 8-fold reduction in dose to give the same

20

induced frequency as the wild-type Neurospora. In additional
studies with repair—deficient strains, a variety of sensitivities of
various strains to the chemical carcinogen MNNG (N-
methyl-N’—nitro—N-nitrosoguanidine) has been shown. Two of
the strains, upr-I and 21125-2, are two and five times more sensi-
tive to mutation induction than the wild-type.

In another line of work, a strain of E. ro/z' which measures
mutations at several loci has been developed. The mutational
types detected include point mutations as well as genetic events
involving gene deletions of gross DNA regions. Scientists also
are working to improve the host—mediated assay system. The
approach will be to introduce the bacterial tester Strain directly
into the mammalian blood stream prior to treatment. After
treatment and a short incubation time, the cells will be har—
vested from the liver. This protocol would allow the microbial
indicator to remain in the blood stream for a longer period of
time and, hence, mutagenic activities of metabolites of en—
vironmental chemicals to, be detected more clearly.

Studies with various microbial systems have further
strengthened the correlation between carcinogenic an
mutagenic activity. The gel—3 data indicate that the carcinogenS
tested Pdeuce mutations primarily by base—pair substitutions.
The Utility 0f microbial mutagenesis assays as a prescreen {Of
chemical carcinogens appears to be very promising.




The Section has continued to support a contract at Miles
Laboratory to perform the genetic analysis ofozd-B mutants re-
covered from experiments on haploid strains of two-component
heterokaryons. During the past two years, repair—deficient
strains of N eurospora also have been used, as the genetic charac-
terization performed in this manner has shown striking qualita—
tive differences between wild-type and excision—repair deficient
strains.

By interagency agreement, the Section is supporting base-
line studies to determine the mutagenicity of airborne chemical
pollutants and other gases used in industry. Various clones of
the plant Tradesmntz’a pal/”dam are being developed to select one
particularly sensitive clone for assay of the genetic activity of
weak mutagens. Field studies are being planned during Fiscal
Year 1976, in collaboration with the Environmental Protection
Agency, to compare the effects of exposure to the same airborne
pollutants under laboratory and field conditions.

During the past year, the Somatic Cell Genetics Section has
focused attention on the interaction of mutagens and carcino-
gens with DNA and synthetic polynucleotides. In one study on
the binding of heavy metals, it is indicated that different cations
may exhibit selectivity in binding to DNA. Additionally,
studies are being initiated to measure the binding of chemical
mutagens and carcinogens in the goal of understanding the
molecular basis of mutagenesis.

DNA repair synthesis in a variety of mammalian cell lines
after exposure to acetylaminofluorene is being studied. While
all cell lines remove substantial amounts of the bound mutagen,
there are differences in rates of repair which are being studied
further. In conjunction with this, NIEHS researchers are col—
laborating with scientists at the University of Florida to study
nuclear protein synthesis in cultured human cells after exposure
to chemical mutagens. Repair induced by ultraviolet light and
acetylaminofluorene progresses without new histone or acidic
protein synthesis.

In other work, a gene mutation detection system in human
diploid fibroblasts is being developed. Forward mutations will
be detected at a sex-linked locus (HGPRT) and an autosomal
locus (AGPRT). Mutagenesis and in vitro transformation in the
same cell lines also will be examined to determine the relation-
ship of mutagenesis to the oncogenic process.

Other scientists are collaborating with investigators at the
University of North Carolina in a study to isolate the ribosomal
DNA cistron from human cells.

Additionally, a contract at the University of Wisconsin in-
volves designing an assay to analyze induction of gene mutations
at two different loci, HGPRT and AGPRT, in cultured human
cells. During the past year, dose response curves have been
obtained after treatment with two potent mutagens and car—
cinogens, MNNG and nitrosofluorene. Genetic and biochemi—

21

 

 




22

cal characterization of over 100 independently induced and
spontaneous mutants obtained with this assay are stable genetic
variants, not transient phenocopies of some sort.

Studies in the Biochemical Genetics Section utilize a vari-
ety of approaches to develop new assay systems to detect gene
mutations in mammalian somatic and germ cells. A biochemi-
cal specific locus test based on electrophoretically-detectable
enzyme loci has been developed. The system can detect muta—
tions that result in either a non—functional enzyme or a func-
tional protein with altered electrophoretic mobility. Results to
date from a 60C0 irridation experiment indicate that the assay is
at least as sensitive as the morphological specific locus system.
The advantages of the new system are that the number of loci
per animal tested can be increased easily and that, because many
of the enzymes also are in the human population, it will provide
a base-line for monitoring of humans for increased mutation
frequency. The heat-stability of mouse enzymes also is being
investigated to determine the utility of this endpoint as an
indicator for induced mutation. It is possible that this could be
incorporated into the electrophoresis assay and, hence, further
increase the number of genetic loci tested.

Considerable progress has been obtained in development of a
mutation detection system in mammalian sperm. Such a system
is important not only for determining mutagenic activity of
environmental chemicals, but also for monitoring human males

 

in high hazard industrial situations. Sperm cells which stain
under selective conditions would be presumptive mutants. Test
conditions have been defined for three enzymes, and validation
studies are underway.

In a correlative area, a system using a mammalian testes
microsomal activation system is being developed. This is similar
to the liver microsome system with bacterial testers which is in
widespread use but offers the advantage of using testicular
tissue—the crucial tissue of concern for hereditary mutations.

Successful refinement of the liver microsomal activating sys-
tem, coupled with bacterial tester strains, has been utilized to
initiate a program using a computer-programmed mass screen-
ing system. This project will attempt to provide standardized
protocols and computerized control of tests and data evaluation.

In the Section’s collaborative research program, a new con-
tract was initiated in Fiscal Year 1974 to detect gene mutations
in somatic cells in mammals. In this contract, at the University
of Washington, an attempt is being made to develop a simple
system to measure point mutations in readily accessible human
somatic cells. This assay is based on Changes in the expected
frequency of human red blood cells containing fetal hemoglobin
rather than adult hemoglobin. Specific antisera are being de—
veloped to detect mutations which produce further A7 or
Q7 fetal hemoglobin. By conjugating the two antisera with
different colored fluorescent dyes, mutant red blood cells will

 




ﬂuoresce in only one color rather than two.

A contract undertaken with jackson Laboratory involves'the
incorporation of 13 additional mouse enzyme alleles intoithe
C57BL/6} strain. This will directly complement the elec—
trophoretic assay system developed at NIEHS and will signifi—
cantly enhance the sensitivity of the system to detect biochemi—
cal specific locus mutations.

During the past year, studies in the Mammalian Genetics
Section have focused on the comparative sensitivities of differ-
ent mouse strains, as well as different routes of injection. In one
project, induction of dominant lethal mutations induced in a
variety of inbred strains of mice after treatment with a given
dose of ethyl methanesulfonate (EMS) is being compared. The
objective of this work is to develop a battery of tester strains
ranging from very sensitive to very resistant which will better
mimic the range of variation we can expect in the heterogeneous
human population. In a closely related line of work, the effect of
different routes of injection of EMS in two inbred strains and
one hybrid strain is being compared.

In another line of work, effects of dietary deficiencies on the
sensitivity of the mouse to induction of heritable translocations
are being studied. Because a significant portion of the human
population is suffering nutritional insufficiency, it is important
to determine whether they are particularly more sensitive to
mutagenesis from environmental chemicals.

A study to detect induced genetic changes in both somatic
and germs cells is being undertaken. Both lymphocytes and
sperm from chemically-treated males will be examined for
chromosomal abberations. The aim of this approach is to use
somatic cell mutagenesis as a predictor for germ cell effects. The
success of this program could reduce greatly the cost and time of
mammalian mutagenicity testing.

A new project will study chromosome aberrations in early
mouse embryos after mutagenic treatment of parents. While
dominant lethal effects have been induced by several chemicals,
genetic causes have not been elucidated. This research will seek
to determine the relative contribution of chromosome aberra-
tions to this class of dominant lethal events.

In a contract at The jackson Laboratory progress has been
made toward development of a new mouse strain carrying mul—
tiple chromosome inversions to make it possible to detect gene
mutations (recessive lethal mutations) in the chromosome re-
gions covered by the inversions. One of the 19 inversions cov—
ered during the past year has been used in tests to detect x-ray
induced recessive lethal mutations to demonstrate the general
utility of this approach.

Studies in the Population Genetics and Epidemiology Sec-
tion are in progress to compare the spontaneous mutation rates
in natural and laboratory environments. Sex—linked recessive
lethals in Drosophila sperm obtained from both wild and labora-

23

 




tory reared males indicate no difference in mutation rate.
Another line of work in collaboration with scientists in the
Environmental Biometry Branch and North Carolina State Uni—
versity is analyzing changes in gene frequency in response to
exposure to various environmental chemicals. These experi-
ments involve monitoring gene frequencies of experimental
Drosphila populations as they are exposed to various toxic en-
vironmental chemicals.

Section scientists, in collaboration with researchers in .th6
Environmental Biometry Branch, are developing mathematical
models to describe the effect of migration on gene frequenc1es.
This program attempts to answer basic questions about the role
of geographic distribution of populations and migration upon
the establishment and maintenance of genetic variability.

Efforts to establish low dose risk estimates from animal car-
cinogenesis experiments are being carried out by scientists in
the Environmental Mutagenesis and Environmental Biometry
Branches. Most laboratory studies use high doses of chemical
carcinogens; and because humans may more often be exposed to
low doses, it is important to determine low dose effects. ThIS
approach uses various models of carcinogenesis to generate dose
response curves for low dose extrapolation.

In addition to intramural research activities, scientists in the
Environmental Mutagenesis Branch have participated in a
number of collaborative activities involving other compOflents
of the Department of Health, Education, and Welfare and other

 

 




Government agencies. In collaboration with staff scientists at
the National Cancer Institute, a research program has been
developed to determine the correlation between carcinogenesis
and mutagenic activity of chemical carcinogens and non—
carcinogenic structural analogs. This also has involved de—
velopment of mechanisms to review and evaluate performance of
the contractors as well as planning of workshops to evaluate the
accomplishments of the overall program.

In collaboration with staff scientists in the Bureau of Foods of
the Food and Drug Administration, NIEHS scientists have par-
ticipated in the successful development and review of collabora-
tive research programs to perform mutagenicity tests on food
additives. In collaboration with investigators in the Office of
Toxic Substances, Environmental Protection Agency, NIEHS
researchers have participated in the development of collaborative
research programs to perform mutagenicity tests on pesticides.

Additionally, during Fiscal Year 1974, a study was begun to
evaluate more thoroughly, through tests on other laboratory
organisms, the mutagenicity of hycanthone and lucanthone,
two drugs used to treat schistosomiasis. Most of the work has
been completed, but the assays on human cells in culture may
not be completed until later in Fiscal Year 1976. Other col-
laborative studies were started in Fiscal Year 1975 to evaluate
AF—Z (a nitrofuran derivative used extensively as a food preserva—
tive in Japan), commercially available hair dyes, and anesthetic
gases. The case study approach is being used in these areas to

help us better understand problems associated with evaluating
relative risk to man from different classes of genetically active
environmental chemicals.

Staff members also are associated with a wide variety of inter-
national programs with individual countries as well as with
international agencies and programs. In the US-japan Coopera-
tive Medical Sciences Program, the US. Environmental Panel
(Chairman, Chief, NIEHS Environmental Mutagenesis Branch)
has organized two major workshops and conferences. The first
conference on “Monitoring the Problem of Mutagenesis and
Carcinogenesis in Man" was held August 6—7, 1974, in Tokyo,
japan. Participants discussed case studies on environmental and
occupational carcinogens and mutagens, reviewed laboratory
tests for carcinogens and mutagens, and discussed monitoring
systems to evaluate carcinogenic and mutagenic effects. A work—
shop on the mutagenicity of chemical carcinogens was held in
Honolulu, Hawaii, December 9—11, 1973, where participants
reviewed the status of mutagenicity data from tests of 152
chemical carcinogens and non-carcinogenic structural analogs
and other non-carcinogenic chemicals.

In connection with the US—USSR Environmental Protection
Agreement, Branch members were responsible for developing a
“Workshop on Basic and Practical Approaches to Environmen-
tal Mutagenesis and Carcinogenesis” held April 28—30, 1973,
in New York City. There participants presented case studies of
environmental carcinogens and mutagens, and discussed

25

 




techniques in population monitoring and epidemiology in en-
vironmental mutagenesis and carcinogenesis and evaluation of
population risk.

In conjunction with a new agreement with the Federal Re-
public of Germany, a collaborative effort will be made in
mutagenesis and carcinogenesis by NIEHS and the Gesellschaft
fiir Strahlen—und Umweltforschung MGH, Munich. The initial
program in this area will be to develop a better method for
determining gene mutations in germ cells using electrophoretic
techniques.

During Fiscal Year 1973, Branch members also were in-
volved in planning two major workshops. The first was primar-
ily a training course to acquaint participants with principal
methods of mutagenicity testing and was held September 30—
October 11, 1974, at the Bhabha Atomic Research Center,
Bombay, India. The second was a workshop on International
Coordination of Environmental and Chemical Mutagenesis
Studies held May 13, 1973, in Miami Beach, Florida. Partici—
pants discussed international workshops and conferences, de-
velopment of better methods to evaluate risk from exposure to
environmental mutagens, development of mechanisms for train-
ing, and deVelopment of effective legislation for regulation of
environmental mutagens.

A new program has been started which involves participation
by NIEHS, Environmental Mutagen Information Center

26

 

(EMIC), and International Agency for Research on Cancer
(IARC) personnel to translate mutagenicity data of known
chemical carcinogens. Branch members also are participating in
a series of workshops organized by IARC staff to evaluate the
correlation between carcinogenic and mutagenic activity and the
possibility of using short—term tests for mutagenic activity to
predict potential mutagenic and carcinogenic activity in man.

NIEHS has continued to support the work of the Environ-
mental Mutagen Information Center (EMIC) to collect, or—
ganize, and disseminate information on environmental chemical
mutagens. The Center processes requests for information from
various Government agencies, but also is becoming well known
abroad. During the past year, EMIC’s data file reached 15,500
bibliographic entries.

In conclusion, during the past year the Environmental
Mutagenesis Branch has been successful in starting cooperatiV€
programs with other Branches in the Institute, in coordinating
program development of the Branch with complementary pro-
grams in Other Federal agencies, and in establishing lines of
communication with newly developing scientific organizations
for environmental mutagenesis abroad. Along with the Organi-
zation of workshops and conferences, these approaches will be
used to stimulate research and development in this rapidly de—
veloping area of environmental health science.

 




ENVIRONMENTAL
TOXICOLOGY BRANCH

The scientific efforts of this Branch are directed toward un-
derstanding mechanisms of toxicity. Special emphasis is placed
on environmental problems relating to reproduction and de-
velopment. These basic studies contribute to development of

better and more effective test procedures to predict toxicity in
humans.

     
 

‘\“,' , .‘\
EN?“

Available scientific expertise is broad and includes biochemis—

. 1’ try, reproductive physiology, pharmacology, and pathology.
”1?, Test systems are likewise diverse and range from subcellular
all“: biochemistry and electron microscopy through in vitro cell and
93-": or an cultures to whole animals. Attem ts are made to encour—
122: 8 p

a.» - age both team and 1nd1v1dual sc1ent1f1c efforts. Research ac-
?” i“"‘"”¥§3

"353:

45/711

'. E 1"

tivities are organized into three interrelated areas: Experimen-

tal Teratology, Developmental Toxicology, and Biochemi-
’ cal Toxicology.

5:.
‘1

_, . 1 1 ..~

Research Activities

The Experimental Teratology group is concerned with
etiology of birth defects in mammals, development of improved

27

 




 

28

test methods for assessing the human teratogenic potential for
environmental agents, and delineation of how teratogens alter
the course of development.

Effects of test agents administered directly to the conceptus,
rather than to the dam, are being studied by one work group as
a possible means of minimizing differences in toxic responses
among laboratory species. Qualitative and quantitative com—
parisons of responses by the conceptus are made. DMSO, cap—
tan, and thalidomide have been administered to dams, injected
between implantation sites in utero, added to preimplantation
embryos cultured in vitro, and injected directly into blastocysts.
Attempts also are being made to determine the extent of absorp—
tion of the test agent by the embryo and its biological half-life.

Potential chemical interactions in our complex environment
are multiple, and synergistic responses might explain a large
part of the still undefined incidence of birth abnormalities.
Chemicals which appear to be innocuous using currently ac-
cepted laboratory tests might actually be toxic in combination
with other chemical, physical, physiologic, or pathologic fac-
tors. Dichlorvos—a widely used insecticide—was studied in
three species by several routes alone and in combination with
other agents (alcohol, carbon monoxide, hypothyroidism). This
work was conducted jointly through a contract with Dow
Chemical Company and intramural efforts. The results presently
are being evaluated, but potentiation of toxicity was not obvi-
ous. Current investigations focus on a slightly more toxic com-

pound (carbaryl) and additional modifiers (protein deficiency).

As part of the US-USSR Cooperative Program, the
teratogenic potential of two insecticides (Dipterex, lmidan) in
the rat has been studied. A positive teratogenic response was
obtained with Dipterex but not with lmidan. Dipterex now is
being studied in additional species.

The world’s literature on the teratogenic effects of environ-
mental agents is being organized into a teratology information
program which will aid in determining priorities and planning
future investigations. Additionally, a group has been organized
to review environmental chemicals for teratogenic testing and to
set priorities for contract screening studies.

NIEHS scientists, in collaboration, with scientists in Ger-
many, also have been studying uterine luminal fluid proteins in
rabbits to determine their role during early pregnancy and théir
susceptibility to change in an altered environment. For in-
stance, injection of progesterone before ovulation produces a
premature appearance of uteroglobin—a uterine luminal
protein—suggesting an asynchronous uterine environment for
the developing embryo.

Research efforts of the Developmental Toxicology Section
are concerned with selected biochemical and physiological ef—
fects of prenatal and/or postnatal exposure to environmental
chemicals on fertility, the early conceptus, fetus, and newborn.
The rePIOdUCtiVE and perinatal parameters are being studied in
an attempt to ellucidate the mechanisms by which environmffﬂ-




.ml

tal agents affect differentiation and development. In vim and in
vim; techniques are utilized.

Metabolism and tissue distribution are studied in target and
non—target tissues in relation to observed toxic responses. Re-
cent research achievements of sectional work groups can be

summarized as follows.
The effects of environmental agents on reproductive tract

function using mice have been studied. Current studies involve
the synthetic estrogen diethylstilbestrol (DES), a common en—
vironmental chemical used as a livestock food additive and
gynecologic medication. Our experiments have demonstrated
that prenatal exposure to DES adversely affects the reproductive
capacity of the female offspring. This effect is dose-related and is
due, in part, to the relative inability of the female offspring to
ovulate. Likewise, the male offspring are sterile following pre-
natal exposure to DES. Reproductive tracts in prenatally drug-
exposed offspring have lesions which include metaplastic and/or
neoplastic changes. These results may be pertinent to the de-
velopment of an animal model to study the reproductive tract
lesions reported in young women whose mothers had been given
DES during pregnancy. Because little is known concerning the
physiologic disposition and metabolism of DES during gesta-
tion, the fate of 14C—DES in the pregnant mouse was studied.
The compound is rapidly cleared from the plasma following
intravenous administration. Relative to the plasma, DES ac-
cumulates in the maternal liver and, to a lesser extent, in the

uterus and fetal liver. The activity of glucuronyltransferase in
the maternal and fetal liver helps account for the accumulation
of radioactivity identified as DES conjugates. Attempts are
being made to utilize a recently developed fetal ovary organ
culture system to study direct fetal reproductive tract effects of
DES.

Another work group has been investigating whether the
DNA repair system in mouse germ cells can be utilized as a
predictive test system for environmental mutagens. Biochemical
and toxic effects of environmental agents on mouse sper-
matogenesis also are being studied. Enzyme development dur-
ing spermatogenesis is being determined in an attempt to define
”marker” enzymes indicative of normal and abnormal cellular
differentiation. Interrelationships between hormone action and
ontogeny of testicular enzyme synthesis also is being studied, as
well as the nature of the blood-testis barrier. Experimental data
suggested that nonfunctional alkylating agents, administered in
viva, cause single strand DNA breaks in spermatogonia. The
extent of single DNA breaks is dose dependent and DNA repair
time is dependent upon the degree of DNA damage. In con-
trast, multifunctional alkylating agents do not cause single
strand DNA breaks but crosslink between DNA—DNA and/or
DNA—proteins. Spermatogenic enzyme studies indicated that
hyaluronidase and several glycolytic dehydrogenase enzymes
might be useful as ”markers” for selective testicular effects of
environmental chemicals. Ontogeny of these enzymes was

29

 




 

shown to be androgen dependent. Transport of cadium ions
across the blood-testis barrier was found to be an active process
which can be inhibited by zinc pretreatment. Permeability
characteristics of the blood-testis barrier closely resemble those
for the blood-brain barrier with regard to passive diffusion of
chemicals.

Cellular homotypic and heterotypic interactions in chimaeric
animals are being studied by a third work group. Results have
demonstrated that single blastocyst cells transferred to
preimplantation blastocysts (mice and rabbits) resulted in
chimaeric animals with additive body weights. Effects on sex
chromosomes were evidenced by changes in the sex ratio (favor—
ing males 2: 1) and the incidence of sterility (12 and 53 percent
among phenotypic females and males, respectively) among re—
sultant chimaeras. Mechanisms of these interactions are being
investigated at the cytological, biochemical, and physiological
levels. Isolated teratocarcinoma cells, treated or untreated with
specific carcinogens and cell-locomotion inhibitors, also are
being used in cell transfer studies. This system should provide
information regarding mechanisms of defects involving specific
cell differentiation. Additionally, NIEHS scientists are study-
ing chemical and ultraviolet radiation—induced abnormalities in
preimplantation and postimplantation embryos. Morphological
damage observed in embryos irridiated during cleavage include
fragmentation, incomplete cleavage, pycnosis, and cytoplasmic
vacuolization. Effects were dose and time dependent and the

30

number of abnormalities increased with each succeeding cleav—
age. The percentage of embryos which implanted was greater
among surviving embryos from lower dose exposure groups.
Current investigations involve use of preimplantation and post-
implantation embryos and teratomas as models for chemically-
induced abnormalities in differentiation.

Other NIEHS investigators are concerned with metabolism
and binding of xenobiotics and steroids in relation to reproduc-
tive and developmental toxicity. Emphasis is placed on perinatal
development of steroid receptors, glucuronidation pathways,
and cadmium binding proteins. Results have shown that guinea
pig, rat, and rabbit liver p—nitrophenol glucuronyltransferase
(PNP UDPGT) activity, about the time of birth, was equivalent
to the adult, whereas testosterone and {3 -estradiol glucuronida-
tions were barely detectable at this time. A single oral dose 0f3
#g/kg 2,3,7 ,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-diox‘in (TCDD) on the fifth
day of gestation had no effect on the hepatic perinatal develop-
ment of steroid UDPGT, whereas there was a marked and prO-

longed increase in postnatal PNP UDPGT activities. These data

along with kinetic studies suggeSt that there are at least tWO
microsomal UDP glucuronyltransferases. The postnatal induc-
tion of PNP UDPGT, as well as components of the mixed
function oxidase system, was shown to be caused both by new—

born exposure to TCDD via maternal milk and the activation of

an inducing mechanism just prior to birth. Data obtained from
solubilized and partially purified enzyme preparations indicated




5'
/

., «a 4 _

that induction of PN P UDPGT and TCDD was caused appar-
ently by increased enzyme synthesis. Glucuronidation of DES
was shown to be more in the class of steroid glucuronidation
than non-steroid glucuronidation, supporting the molecular
similarity of DES and natural estrogens. Cadmium administered
maternally crossed the placenta in relationship to dose, and
placenta transfer increased with gestational age. The ability of
cadmium to induce metallothionein synthesis in maternal liver
and/or placenta, and the saturation of this metal binding pro—
tein, is being further studied.

Scientists in the Biochemical Toxicology Section are en-
gaged in a coordinated effort to determine basic biological
mechanisms through which toxic environmental agents exert
their morphologic and biochemical effects in marine and mam—
malian species and to apply this information to the design of
more rapid and effective test procedures to predict toxicity in
man. Summaries of the research interests and achievements of
this Section follow.

One work group is concerned with factors affecting hepatic
heme synthesis during mammalian development. In adults,
5 —aminolevulinic acid (ALA) synthetase is the rate—limiting
enzyme in the heme biosynthetic pathway. Regulatory proper-
ties of this enzyme have been characterized in both adult and
fetal liver. Fetal ALA synthetase is not regulated by the end
product heme, as is the adult enzyme, but is more highly sus-
C€ptible than the adult enzyme to inhibition by high cation

concentrations and changes in pH and temperature, as well as
other in who conditions. These results suggest that ALA synthe—
tase may not be rate—limiting in hepatic heme biosynthesis until
it becomes susceptible to regulation by heme, a phenomenon
which does not occur until after birth. In addition, these studies
indicate that developing liver may be somewhat more suscepti-
ble to toxic effects of environmental agents due to immature
regulatory mechanisms. Other studies are in progress to con—
sider the biochemical and pharmacologic basis for the laboratory
prediction of human responses following exposure to por-
phyrogenic and/or hematotoxic environmental agents.
Another work group has determined that—when adminis-
tered to pregnant rabbits—the progestational steroid medrox-
pyrogesterone acetate (MPA, Provera ®), a suspected teratogen
in humans, results in offspring with cleft palate. Teratogenicity
was not noted in rats or mice even at the maximum tolerated
dose. In View of this obvious species difference and the rare
occurrence of palatal malformations in the rabbit, teratogenic
mechanisms of MPA are being explored further in rabbits. A
program to monitor and assess chemically-induced changes in
amniotic and fetal enzymes (and other proteins) for their ability
to predict developmental toxicity also is being developed.
NIEHS scientists are collaborating in the development of a
program to establish biochemical and behavioral toxicity pro—i
files in mammalian and marine species exposed chronically to
low levels of various environmental agents, especially heavy

31

 

 




 

metals. Toxicity profiles in lower species will be utilized to
‘ ‘ derive predictive model test systems for humans. Agents cur-
rently under investigation include arsenic and methyl mercury.
Plans are being developed to investigate a wide variety of en-
vironmentally relevant agents in marine and aquatic, as well as
mammalian, species. Studies of marine organisms allow estima—
tion of toxicity in the normal setting with natural conditions,
comparison of toxic effects with mammalian species, and better
understanding of localization and accumulation of these ele—
ments by lower animal species.

The relationship between superoxide dismutase (SOD) and
pulmonary oxygen toxicity is the focus of other Branch research.
Rats exposed to 85 percent oxygen for 7 days have been shown
i to acquire “tolerance” to lethal concentrations of oxygen. This
‘ physiological adaptation has been shown to correspond in time
l with an increase in the SOD in the lungs of these animals.
Antibody titrations of SOD have further demonstrated that this

increase is in the cytosol form of the enzyme. Investigations now

l are in progress to further define the biochemical adaptations

l occurring during exposure to oxygen and to more accurately

identify how SOD is changing. Appropriate light and electron
i microscopy histopathology is being used to determine the his-
‘ tological response to oxygen exposure. Alveolar type II cells
have been shown to proliferate at the same time that the
physiological and biochemical adaptations occur. Because a
a ? large number of environmental toxicants may produce their

32

 

toxic effects by way of free radicals, several of them—including
ozone, N02, SO2, and paraquat—are being studied using the
same tools developed for the study of oxygen toxicity.
Another NIEHS work group is attempting to define early
ultrastructural and biochemical effects of heavy metals and other
environmental toxicants on mammalian and marine invertebrate
tissues. Subcellular morphologic observations are correlated
with tissue concentrations and chemical alterations in blood and
viscera. These studies attempt to define the ability of electron
miscrocope techniques to predict early signs of chemical toxici-
ty. Arsenic, cadmium, bismuth, methyl mercury, inorganic
mercury, and dioxin are being studied. Combined oxygen elec-
trode and ultrastructural studies were performed on kidneys of
rats exposed to arsenate in drinking water for six weeks. De-
creased mitochondrial state 3 respiration was observed in all
dose groups, and a dose related increase in swollen mitochondria
and dense autophagic lysosomal bodies was observed in the
proximal tubules. Ultrastructural studies were conducted on
kidneys of rabbits receiving a single injection of cadmium-
metallothionein. A dose equivalent to 0.4 mg/kg cadmium
produced necrosis of tubule cells; increased numbers of swollen
mitochondria and dense granular lysosomal bodies were noted in
proximal tubule cells by electron microscopy at lower doses.
Female rats were given access to drinking water containing
methyl mGICury hydroxide for four weeks prior to mating, and
fetal and maternal liver mitochondria were studied for changes

 




 

 

in ultrastructure, respiratory capacity, and protein synthesis on
day 18 of pregnancy. The fetus appeared more sensitive than
maternal animals to dose related alterations of mitochondria
morphology and function.

Other scientists are working on developing a program of
behavioral toxicology at NIEHS. This program will attempt to
define methods to determine how environmental stresses pro-
duce behavioral alterations in mammals and lower species.
Model test systems which simulate and predict behavioral toxic-
ity in humans will be developed, and neurochemical

mechanisms of behavioral toxicity considered.
Teratogenic potential and toxic mechanisms of chelating

agents (EDTA) and their interaction with metals, especially
with regard to zinc deficiency, are also being studied. EDTA
treatment and zinc deficiency produce very similar types of
malformations in rats. Gonad dysgeneses was seen in many
malformed fetuses. It was impossible to determine the sex of
offspring on gross observation of the gonads. Organ size and
number of germ cells were reduced greatly in both ovary and
testis. EDTA-treated and zinc—deficient fetuses were almost
identical in appearance. Postnatal development of offspring of

EDTA treated animals was affected severely; survival to weaning
and growth rates were reduced.

Another group is working currently on development of in
wtm mammalian tissue and organ culture test systems which can
be utilized for rapid prediction of potentially toxic environmen-

tal agents. Progress has been made regarding development of a
viable tissue or organ culture system of mammalian gonadal
tissue. The mechanism by which chemical agents affect
oogenesis and subsequent stages of oocyte maturation and fol-
licular development will be studied using this system. Oocyte
maturation in ovary explants taken from 16-day old embryos
was followed for 12-14 days in culture. Oocyte maturation in
mm) occurred in a manner analogous to maturation in viz/0 to
about 25 days postconception. Effects of temperature and altera—
tions in growth medium on follicular maturation have been
established. Attempts to establish consistent and reproducible
stages of growth and maturation of fetal and prepubertal ovarian
explants will be continued. Another ongoing study seeks to
define the interaction of organochlorine compounds with the
plasma membrane of mammalian cells grown in vitro, and to
determine how this interaction relates to toxicity. Repre—
sentatives of several different classes of organochlorine com-
pounds (DDT, chlordane, and 4—chlorbiphenyl) have been
studied using L5 l78Y cells in culture. The effect of these chem-
icals on transport and phospholipid metabolism among different
membrane-containing organelles of the cell are being studied,
and the nature of the interaction with the plasma membrane is
being investigated.

In vitm techniques to study toxic hematologic effects of en-
vironmental agents are being evaluated. A tissue culture system
that allows sustained proliferation and differentiation of bone

33

 

 

 




 

marrow cells has been developed for the purpose of identifying
agents that are toxic to bone marrow, evaluating the role of
metabolism in hematotoxicity, and elucidating biochemical
mechanisms of toxicity. Culturing of individual cell types iso-
lated by velocity sedimentation is being evaluated. This
technique allows a clear separation of nucleated erythroid cells
from cells in the granulocytic series. Bone marrow cells cultured
in the liquid system show sustained cellular proliferation and
differentiation. In initial toxicity studies, benzene has been
employed as a model agent to apply in vitro techniques to the
study of environmental pollutants. A dose related effect of ben—
zene on cellular proliferation of bone marrow culture has been
observed.

The extent to which modification of plasma membranal
structure and function correlate with fetal toxic and/or
teratogenic responsiveness is the focus of other studies. At—
tempts are being made to characterize properties and behavior of
plasma membranal regulatory enzymes from fetal tissues and to
compare behavior of these enzymes with corresponding adult
enzymes. An area of special interest involves the biochemical
basis for the occurrence of abnormal ectodermal development
about the brain and spinal cord. Aspirin administered to preg-
nant rats elicits abnormal ectodermal development (exenceph—
aly, spina bifida) in fetal rats. This response to aspirin is aug—
mented by simultaneous administration of a diet deficient in
panothenic acid and, possibly, in essential fatty acids. Grossly

34

observable teratogenic effects are noted when pregnant rats are
fed a pantothenic acid deficient diet for several days or a defi-
cient diet with a pantothenic acid antimetabolite for a shorter
period. Biochemical studies involve efforts to determine the
roles of prostaglandins and/or cyclic nucleotides in regulating
behavior and/or development of embryonic cells. Initial studies
will examine prostaglandin synthetases and/or nucleotide cyc—
lases of uterine, placental, and several fetal tissues.

Studies have continued to evaluate the marsupial as a model
for carcinogenesis. The autopsy phase of this project has been
completed. Ethyl nitrosourea, a known potent carinogen, was
administered orally as a single dose (100 mg/kg) to opossumS at
ten different stages of development. Eye tumors and several
other unusual tumors have been found in ENU-treated animals.

In the coming year, the Environmental Toxicology BranCh
will attempt to further narrow the range of branch research
efforts and concentrate resources more effectively. Major areas of
interest include environmental factors affecting germ cell de—
velopment, teratology (early effects of gestational chemical ex-
posure), transplacental toxicology (functional effects of gesta-
tional chemical exposure), environmental factors involved in
prematurity, rapid toxicity test systems, mechanisms of target
organ toxicity, and effects of environmental agents on learning
and behavior. The techniques and scientific skills represented by
these areas also will be available to support the NIEHS
energy-related health effects research efforts.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

PHARMACOLOGY BRANCH

The Pharmacology Branch has five or six program areas or-
ganized into four formal sections and one work group. The
major emphasis of the Branch’s research is concerned with un-
derstanding mechanisms by which environmental pollutants
and effectors cause toxicity, and development of better test sys-
tems for detecting and evaluating early toxic effects of environ-
mental chemicals and for extrapolating from animal test systems
across species and to man. The four formal sections are
Aerotoxicology, Pharmacokinetics, Toxication-Detoxi-
cation, and Marine Pharmacology and Biomedicine; the
work group is Molecular Pharmacology and Biochemistry.

Research Activities

The Aerotoxicology Section has a mixture of research proj-
ects including studies on physiological and molecular
mechanisms by which volatile chemicals affect the body, espe-
cially the lung; studies of gross toxic effects of inhaled materials
in the whole animal; and problems of generating various mix—
tures of particles, vapors, and gases for use in animal exposure
chambers.

In the last year, research on toxicity and metabolism of
solvents—especially benzene, xylene, and dichloromethane—
and vinyl chloride has continued. We have studied hepatic and
pulmonary metabolisms of benzene and xylene in normal ani-

35

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

mals as well as animals pretreated with inducers and inhibitors
of chemical-metabolizing systems in these tissues. Toxic re-
sponses of these control vs. pretreated animals to inhaled sol-
vents have been compared with changes in rates of solvent
metabolism by lung or liver from these two groups. Similar
studies with dichloromethane (DCM) have measured CO-
hemoglobin levels of control vs. pretreated animals after DCM
exposure and have compared these blood-CO changes with
levels of chemical-metabolizing enzymes in liver and lung. The
vinyl chloride experiments have involved animal exposures to
high levels of vinyl chloride repeated daily for up to two weeks.
The animal groups included controls and phenobarbital-treated
animals. Enzymes metabolizing inhaled chemicals exist in the
lung and other extrahepatic tissues as well as in liver. Success in
manipulating these systems by stimulators or inhibitors is usu-
ally confined to the liver. Inhaled solvent effects on animals may
be changed by changing metabolism of the solvents at sites of
entry and in the body’s major chemical-metabolizing organs
(quantitatively, this is usually in the liver). So far we have
shifted whole body toxicity or toxic responses of animals to
inhaled xylene, dichloromethane, and Vinyl chloride by either
inhibiting or stimulating systems metabolizing these chemicals.
These kinds of chemical-chemical, chemical-drug interactions
will be explored further to help in identifying populations of
people at greater than normal risk and synergistic effects which
perhaps can be avoided.

36

Freon toxicities for the cardiovascular system have been
studied further, and more work in this area will occur when our
new subsection in cardiovascular and respiratory physiology is
activated fully. Cardiovascular and respiratory responses to in—
haled chemicals and pollutants may be part of the toxic actions
of this group of environmental hazards, as well as an early
indicator of toxic responses to these materials. Animals with
compromised respiratory and/ or cardiovascular functions may be
more sensitive to inhaled chemicals than normal animals. We
have shown this to be true with freons and the cardiomyopathic
hamster. Further studies of this nature will be made with mix-
tures of fluorocarbons, fluorocarbons plus other chemicals such
as air pollutants, and air pollutants likely to increase as a result
of the energy crisis and greater utilization of non—petroleum
energy sources.

Oven cleaners and constituents of spray can anti—perspirants
were studied, and it was shown that aerosolized oven cleaners
produced no effects when inhaled by animals, whereas the inha—
lation of aluminum chlorohydrate produced lung lesions related
to dose and/or time of exposure. Reversibility of these lesions
and half-life of deposited aluminum in the lungs of animals
inhaling aerosols of aluminum chlorohydrate have been studied:
aluminum disappears from the lung, but the granulomas re—
main.

A contract to conduct chronic exposures of animals to selected
pollutants has been negotiated with Becton—Dickinson, and

 




 

 

 

these studies are now beginning on-site. This collaborative on—
site effort will maximize the effectiveness of our in-house inhala-
tion toxicology studies in that development work, acute studies,
and chronic studies can be coordinated closely. Animals exposed
to selected chemicals or mixtures in the chronic-exposure facil-
ity also can be studied by groups in—house who are using sophis—
ticated biochemical or toxicological test systems for toxic effects
or studies on mechanisms of toxicity. The contract is intended
primarily to identify chronic effects of mixtures of inhaled con-
taminants by classical inhalation toxicology techniques (organ,
body weight, histopathology). In-depth studies on differences
between acute and chronic effects will be conducted largely
in-house on exposed animals supplied by the contractor. Initial
studies are concerned with sulfuric acid mist, ozone, and mix—
tures of the two. Synergistic effects will be studied with regard
to dependence on concentration and ratios of the two pollutants.

A small contract to characterize the Red Tide aerosol has been
negotiated with Florida State University. Inhaled aerosols of the
Red Tide are respiratory irritants. The contract will characterize
the particles in these aerosols and the possible role of particle vs.
adsorbed toxin(s) in the irritant effects of Red Tide. Collabora-
tion with the Marine Pharmacology Section is extensive, as is
interagency cooperation and information exchange at state and
national levels. Two of our scientists have met with groups from
many Florida State agencies as well as Federal agencies to discuss
our Program. One of these scientists has attended two recent

international meetings on Red Tide Research—one at Tampa,
Florida, the other at MIT in Boston. Additionally, we have
exchanged information with the National Heart and Lung Insti-
tute. (See Marine Pharmacology Section for more details.)
The Marine Pharmacology and Biomedicine Section is
newly-formed and serves several functions. Our in—house re-
search efforts are devoted primarily to studies of uptake, dis—
tribution, metabolism, and excretion of pollutants by various
marine species, and the role of metabolism of these pollutants in
their storage and storage forms in these species. The phar—
macokinetics of pollution distribution in selected marine species
is being determined and compared with mammals (see Phar-
macokinetics Section) in the hope of improving mathematical
models and extrapolations of pollutant distributions from ani—
mals to man. Interactions of pollutants at these processes (up—
take, distribution, storage, etc.) also are being studied to de-
termine if mixtures of pollutants will lead to more storage of a
pollutant than if the marine organism has to cope with only one
chemical at a time. Effect of water temperature on these
metabolic and storage processes also will be studied. A new
laboratory (Whitney Marine Laboratory, St. Augustine, Florida)
will be operated year round to complement the summer—only lab
(Mount Desert Island Biological Laboratory, Maine) we have
been using in this program over the last two to three years. So
far, we have shown that PCBs are stored in different tissues in
different marine species and that the biological half-life of these

37

 




 

 

 

pollutants correlates with the ability of the species to metabolize
these chemicals. In lobsters, PCBs concentrate almost exclu—
sively in the hepatopancreas, whereas in other species significant
PCB stores occur in fat as well as liver and traces of PCBs can
remain in fleshy tissue. Marine chemical metabolizing and de-
toxifying systems do not respond the same as mammalian sys—
tems to Stimulators and inhibitors of these mammalian systems.
In general, marine systems lack oxidative chemical
metabolisms, though many conjugation reactions are present
(glutathione conjugation, amino acid conjugations). Water sol—
uble pollutants, such as 2,4—D and 2,4,3—T, thus can be han-
dled readily by most marine species, whereas lipophilic pollut-
ants, like DDT and PCBs, often are stored and accumulated.
Stimulators of mammalian oxidative reactions (phenobarbital,
DDT, PCB, TCDD) have little, if any, such effects in several
marine species. What often occurs is that the low levels of these
chemical—metabolizing systems present in some marine species,
such as little skate, are inhibited by chemicals that are inducers
ofchemical oxidations in mammals. Thus, the presence of DDT
and PCB together will lead, we predict, to even greater accumu—
lation by marine organisms of both pollutants than when either
is present alone.

In addition to these studies, this Section, in collaboration
with the Aerotoxicology Section, will be initiating a small in-
house research effort on the respiratory effects of the Red Tide.
The nature of the aerosol and methods for generating this for

38

experimental use in producing animals exposed to Red Tide
aerosols will be the responsibility of the Aerotoxicology Section.
The Marine Pharmacology Section will investigate the chemical
and pharmacologic nature of the Red Tide toxin and whether
this toxin plays any role in the respiratory irritant effects. Ani—
mals exposed to Red Tide toxins will be evaluated for effects
using respiratory physiological measurements——again in collab-
oration with the Aerotoxicology Section. These plans were re-
cently discussed at the Red Tide Conference in Tampa, Florida,
where it was determined that no such studies were contemplated
by anyone identified as working in this area of marine science.
In addition to these research effortS, a survey of the marine
biomedical research activity in the United States is being made.
A conference was held in Washington, D.C., February 13—14,
1973, and scientists and directors of many of the marine science
laboratories in the country attended. Recent research findings
and summaries of activities at these labs were presented, and
there was an attempt to determine willingness and capability to
be involved in a national program of marine biomedicine with
emphasis on its human health impact. NIEHS scientists will be
working together to try to develop a national program of marine
research related to human health with input and collaboration
from all other interested parties, such as other components of
the National Institutes of Health (NCI, NHLI, NICHD,
NIAMDD, NINDS), National Science Foundation-Sea Grant
Program, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration,

 

 

 




 

 

Department of the Interior, etc. The main concern of the
NIEHS will be, however, to provide a focus for DHEW ac-
tivities in marine biomedicine.

The Pharmacokinetics Section is conducting research in at
least two major categories: whole body distribution and model-
ing studies; and uptake, storage, metabolism, and release of
pollutants, etc., by isolated perfused organs. The kinetics of
chemical disposition in whole body and isolated organs are
being determined in order to construct mathematical models for
these processes which can be used to better understand rate-
limiting steps in these; to extrapolate distribution profiles of
Chemicals from one tissue to another, one species to another,
and to man; and to predict tissue storage of pollutants from
knowledge of exposures.

Efforts in the last year have concentrated on whole body
distribution kinetics with selected PCBs; and disposition of
selected amines, as well as dieldrin and aldrin, by the isolated
perfused lung, and disposition of selected PCBs by the isolated
perfused liver. Pharmacokinetic modeling has involved exten—
sive collaboration with the Environmental Biometry Branch and
BFOUps at NIH, Bethesda, Maryland (NCI, DCRT). The En—
vironmental Biology and Chemistry Branch has been a tre-
mendous help in identifying pollutant metabolites and in sup-
plying certain reference compounds (labeled and unlabeled) for
use. The role of PCB metabolism in determining whole body
and tissue half-life, nature and number of storage compart—

ments, and fate of different PCB isomers has been elucidated,
and further studies on the structure—activity relationships of
PCB fate using selected PCB isomers continues. Most PCBs end
up in fatty tissues, but clearance from the body depends on
metabolism. Appreciable storage of PCBs in skin was found and
may explain the dermal toxicity of ingested PCBs seen in many
species.

Studies suggest that rapidly—metabolized PCBs will not be
stored or accumulated in animals or man and that use of such
PCBs could markedly reduce the environmental health hazards
of this class of chemicals. Lung storage of most PCBs is very
slight, but the chlorinated pesticides dieldrin and aldrin do
accumulate in lung. Pharmacokinetic studies of this process
showed that once exposure is terminated, these chlorinated hy-
drocarbons efflux rapidly from the lung and, therefore, pose
much less hazard than with most chemical epoxides where tissue
storage may be very long-term due to reaction of the epoxide
with tissue macromolecules.

Amine storage in the lung often is extensive, but several
processes of uptake and efflux were identified. Some of these
involve passive diffusion and, therefore, are blood-concentration
dependent. Some amines appear to be accumulated by lungs by
more specific mechanisms, and these have been studied in more
detail. Active or facilitated transport mechanisms offer the
chance for competition between amines for uptake and release
and offer possibilities for chemical or drug interactions and

39

 




l

 

synergistic effects. Several vasoaction, endogenous hormones are
amines whose uptake or release by the lung is vital to maintain-
ing homeostasis and proper lung and cardiovascular functions.
Competition between chemicals (exogenous) and hormones (en-
dogenous) for lung uptake or efflux sites could, therefore, be an
important mechanism for lung toxicity and cardiovascular ef-
fects of pollutants. Several valuable therapeutic agents (tran—
quilizers, analgesics, hypnotics) are stored in lung in appreci—
able quantities. Competition for storage or release of these drugs
by amine pollutants could have serious effects on drug toxicity
and action in patients. So far we have shown that drugs and
vasoactive hormones can compete for lung uptake and efflux
processes, and this is being extended to pollutant-drug-
hormone interactions.

Another group of compounds regulated by the lung are the
hormones, prostaglandins. These lipids are synthesized, stored,
and metabolized in lung; and the lung plays a very important
role in regulating circulating levels of these very active mate—
rials. Effects of pollutants on prostaglandin disposition by the
lung are being investigated. We have exposed animals to vari—
ous oxidant gases and then studied prostaglandin synthesis and
metabolism by lungs from these exposed animals. Effects of
oxygen, ozone, SOX, and NOX have been studied, and the results
suggest that prostaglandin disposition by lung can be affected
by breathing at least some of these pollutants. The time—
concentration relationships of these effects are being studied in

40

 

greater detail so as to better define the practical limits of these
changes and their possible role in lung disease initiated by these
pollutants.

The Pharmacokinetics Section will be working with the Ma—
rine Pharmacology Section in modeling for pollutant distribu—
tions in marine vs. mammalian species. This collaboration has
been referred to above.

The Toxication-Detoxication Section is concerned with the
role of chemical metabolism in the production of tissue damage
or toxicity. Metabolisms leading to increased toxicity may b6
balanced by reactions with detoxifying systems. This balance 0f
toxication-detoxication mechanisms may be upset by pollut—
ants, pathology, age, or species, or may be different in mm
tissue from another. Chemical-metabolizing systems have been,
or are being, characterized in tissue most likely to contact the
environment (skin, intestine, lung, and liver). Characterization
includes substrate and inhibitor specificity, ability to be stimu-
lated or induced, and measurements of components of mul'
ticomponent systems (P—430 concentrations and types).
Fractionation and purification of epoxide producing and deto—
leying systems are being carried out with lung, liver, intestine,
and skin. Much emphasis is being placed on the relative aC-
t1v1ties of MFOs (13—450 dependent), epoxide hydrase,
glutathione-S-epoxide transferase, and N-oxidase in various tis—
sues and at different times in the perinatal period to identify
when and in what tissue an imbalance in epoxide or active

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

metabolite production and destruction may occur. We have
shown that the balance of epoxide production and destruction is
abnormal (compared to adult tissue levels) at several times be—
fore and just after birth in several tissues. We have shown that
effectors of adult enzyme systems behave differently in the fetus
and newborn (effects of Hg+2 on N-oxidation) and that pre-
gnancy can affect systems in liver and lung quite differently
(N—oxidation and MFOS in lung, but not in liver, increase).
Some of these results were presented in Tubingen, Germany and
Milan, Italy in june 1974 at the International Symposium on
Perinatal Pharmacology and in March 1975 at the Society Of
Toxicology meetings.

Studies of chemical-metabolizing systems in different tissues
in different species include comparisons of different mammalian
Species (mice, rats, hamsters, and rabbits most commonly), as
well as with marine species (in collaboration with the Marine
Pharmacology Section), and with birds (in collaboration with
investigators at Mount Desert Island Biological Laboratory as
well as at the Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of Inter—
iOf). Most marine species and birds have much lower ability to
oxidize chemicals, though non—oxidative (conjugating) systems
often are present at appreciable levels in several tissues. Thus,
both marine species and birds will be likely to dispose quickly of
Water-soluble pollutants like 2,4—D and 2,4,5-T, but accumu—
late lipid—soluble pollutants like DDT, PCBS, and TCDD. Such
may be useful data in designing environmentally safer pesticides

or selective poisons (for bird control which is of interest to the
Department of Interior).

Most extrahepatic chemical—metabolizing systems resemble
those of the same type in liver. Certain peculiarities are being
explored, however. Thus, the lung MFOs seem able especially
to metabolize organic solvents and especially poor in most
drug-metabolizing abilities. Purification of the lung MFO sys-
tems suggests these differences are not explainable in terms of
cytochromes, but rather the associated flavoprotein and lipid
fractions. In skin, the MFO system seems especially unlike liver
in its response to polycyclic hydrogen inducers and in its con-
tent of non P-4SO hemoproteins. These studies may help ex-
plain the sensitivity of skin and lung to certain types of chemi—
cals whose toxic effects depend on metabolic activation (sol—
vents, polycyclic hydrocarbons).

Metabolic activation of chemicals as a key process in toxicity
was the subject of a two-day workshop held in collaboration
with the Environmental Mutagenesis Branch. Several scientists
who are leaders in the field of chemical metabolism or
mutagenesis met to discuss how best to obtain and measure
metabolic activation of chemicals to mutagens. This workshop
will be followed by a conference this fall or winter wherein a
score of leaders in metabolism or genetics will seek to describe
not only the state of the art, but what is needed in both fields to
get a better feel for the role of chemical metabolism in produc-
ing genetic damage.

41

 

 




 

The Molecular Pharamacology and Biochemistry Work
Group is involved in several studies relating to many other
Sections of the Branch. Work on the secretion of lung surfactant
has been concerned with the role of the concentric lamellar
organelle (CLO) as a precursor of lung surfactant and the role of
enzymes of the CLO in the release of surfactant from these
CLOs. Enzymes of the surfactant (lung) washout fraction also
have been studied, as have enzymes of the lung macrophage, in
a program designed to better understand chemical alterations
that can occur outside the lung parenchyma (i.e., to inhaled
chemicals before they are absorbed into the body). These studies
tie in with the Pharmacokinetics Section (the isolated perfused
lung especially) and the Toxication—Detoxication Section.

Also being studied are chemical—macromolecule interactions.
Membrane-associated enzyme systems can incorporate drugs and
chemicals into peptides as well as coenzymes. Thus, NAD
glycohydrolase has been studied in its interaction with hy—
drazines to form DPN—analogs. In the lung, this reaction may
be responsible for both therapeutic (INH as tuberculostatic) and
toxic effects (hydrazide—induced lung toxicity). NAD glycohy-
drase may serve as a marker of cell membrane function as well,
and its behavior in normal vs. tumor cells is being studied.
Another membrane—bound enzyme system, transglutaminase, is
being studied for its role in membrane function and alterations.
Polyamines can be incorporated into membranes via trans—
glutaminase, and this may serve as a prototype for chemical-

42

induced membrane changes, chemical-induced allergenic reac—
tions, etc. Again this enzyme may serve as a marker for cell
membrane changes after chemical injury or during neoplasia.
Membrane glycoproteins are being studied as cell receptors,
both for chemical actions and hormone—induced changes in
membranes. Some membrane glycoproteins are enzymes, and
changes in membrane proteins can be correlated with enzyme
function. Membrane glycoproteins also are involved in things
like contact inhibition (important in neoplasia); and alterations
in this process may precede cell damage and transformation.
In another program, this group seeks to study the interaction
of epoxides with nucleic acids and what role the epoxide-DNA
or epoxide—RNA complex may play in regulation of protein
synthesis, DNA repair, etc. Most studies to date have concen—
trated on the formation of epoxide-DNA adducts, not on the
biological activity of these adducts. In this work, the group is
working closely with the Toxication-Detoxication Section (63136“
cially the group concerned with epoxide metabolism) and is
collaborating with groups at NIH, Bethesda (especially the
NIAMDD which also will be working with the Marine Phar-
macology Section and the Toxication—Detoxication Section 011

epox1de metabolisms in various tissues of marine and mamma-
lian spec1es).

 




 

 

 

 

CONTRACT RESEARCH

Contract research (examples of which have been described
under the Branch statements) serves the important purpose of
supplementing and complementing the Institute’s intramural
research program. Research in this activity is supported through
contracts and performed in collaboration with university inves-
tigators, industrial research organizations, and other Federal
agencies. The NIEHS scientific staff identifies areas where a
research contract can provide the needed linkage of complemen-
tary effort not available through extramural or intramural re-
search approaches.

The Institute plans to provide continuing support for con—
tracts concerned with the development of systems to detect
mutations in mammalian cells, assessment of the effects of en-
vironmental components on reproduction and ontogenesis, and
determination of the effects of chronic exposure to airborne

47>

 




 

44

environmental agents. Additionally, supported projects will as—
sess the environmental toxicity of specific chemicals, survey
environmental exposures to heavy metals, develop respiratory
tract models to assist lung deposition studies, and provide for
determination of the carcinogenicity of orally administered as-
bestos. The contract program will support studies designed to
aid in the elucidation of adverse health and environmental ef-

. _ “y s i, A b... , -
We)»; far/213‘ //.=‘-‘>) ﬁlm/1W > N F
Adll.n\,m..XJ//1/.)2/\ - all @\Y\\9§¢g

 

fects associated with energy utilization and conservation. The
collaborative research program will continue to emphaSiZ€
targeted research.

Specific areas of research contract concentration include prin-
ciples of safety testing, teratology, mutagenesis, environmental
health epidemiology, and the effect of physical factors on
biological systems.

l E

  

i ‘v
\\\//"\\
\>

WM

 

  
 

  
 

3
W” E . ., . '2
‘ L-I‘E‘—3‘ )

      

 

 

    
  

 

 

     




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

EXTRAMURAL RESEARCH

Research and research training in environmental health sci-
ences are essential components of the national effort to develop
understanding of etiologic factors and biological mechanisms
Involved in human disease and disorders of environmental origin
and to increase the supply of environmental health research
mempower in accordance with identified national needs.
Through its extramural program, which provides funds for sup—
port of research and research training activities within educa-
thnal institutions, research institutes, and other public and
Private nonprofit organizations, NIEHS reaches out into the
sc1entific community to those scientists and research teams
Which can make contributions to understanding problems in the
environmental health field.

In addition to contributing to biomedical and clinical knowl-
edge, this supported research is intended to provide health
criteria for establishment of standards by those Federal agencies
Charged with regulatory responsibilities. Other beneficiaries of

the basic knowledge developed are medical personnel concerned
with etiology of new diseases peculiar to certain locales; research
teams dealing with environmental components of cancer, heart
and lung diseases, birth defects, and neurological disorders; and
physicians responsible for health care delivery.

Fundamental data derived from research on environmental
toxicants and their mechanisms of action will suggest new solu-
tions to the complex and growing problems of environmental
contamination. As the information base expands and new
techniques of measurement and analysis are developed, new
approaches to realistic control methods or standards may
emerge.

Program Areas

Because of the numbers and kinds of environmental factors to
which man is exposed, the scope of extramural activities is
broad. Efforts are made to maintain an effective blend of prob-
lem oriented and fundamental research and training in a wide
spectrum of the physical and biological sciences. These include
biochemistry, biology, statistics, biometry, chemistry, clinical
medicine, engineering, epidemiology, pathology, pharmacol-
ogy, toxicology, physics, physiology, radiobiology, and veteri-
nary sciences.

For administrative purposes, research and training supported
by NIEHS is divided into four primary program areas: Etiology

45

 




 

46

of Environmental Diseases and Disorders, Environmental
Pharmacology and Toxicology, Environmental Path-
ogenesis, and Environmental Mutagenesis and Reproduc-
tive Toxicology. None of these is rigidly delineated or mutu-
ally exclusive. Research and training may span one, several, or
all program areas concurrently.

The objective of the Etiology of Environmental Diseases
and Disorders Program is to identify and understand causal
associations between hazardous chemical, physical, and biologi-
cal factors in man’s environment and human illness and death.
Factors of interest include pesticides, plastics, plastics inter—
mediates, food additives, solvents, and other synthetic chemi-
cals; metals and metal compounds; asbestos, coal, plastics, and
other noxious inorganic and organic dusts; toxins of natural
origin; light; temperature; electromagnetic radiation; noise,
etc., regardless of their sources or modes of dissemination.
Drugs as commonly defined and radiation from radionuclides
are excluded, except as they may be involved in synergistic or
antagonistic actions with environmental agents or serve as useful
models for study of environmental agents. Exceptional interest
areas include mutagenesis, teratogenesis, carcinogenesis, be-
havioral and learning anomalies, synergism, and environmental
epidemiology.

In addition to its general responsibilities in this program
area, NIEHS has a special responsibility for health research
related to energy development and conservation. It seeks to

identify health effects and to provide predictive capabilities re—
garding such effects associated with pollutants from new and
existing energy technologies and with conservation measures
being expanded in the nation’s efforts to achieve energy self-
sufficiency. Research priorities take into account suspected
health impacts of hazardous agents from proposed technologies
on the general population and on specific population groupS,
gaps in knowledge concerning health effects, and projected time
frames for development of various energy sources.

Hazardous agents of concern include native components 0f
coal and petroleum; gaseous and solid by—products of combus—
tion; vapors and compounds of heavy metals contained in fossil
fuels; and noxious dusts originating from mining and processing
operations and from production and use of insulating materials
such as asbestos, rockwool, plastics, and fiberglass. Priority iS
given research that will lead to development of more sensitive
and rapid physiological indicators to evaluate damage to man;
quantification of relationships between exposure to toxic agents
and diverse behavioral, physiologic, and mutagenic agents; and
identification of damage to cells and cell components as early
indicators of injury to highly susceptible individuals and to
population groups in high risk locales.

. The goal of the Environmental Pharmacology and Tox-
1cology Program is to develop understanding of pharmacolOgi‘
Cal prlnciples that govern the site and severity of damage by
env1ronmental agents. The focus of research is‘upon processes by

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

which environmental agents affect biological systems and by
which biological systems, in turn, influence the action and fate
of debilitating agents.

Examples of the more important processes are absorption,
deposition, transfer, excretion, toxication, detoxication,
metabolism, and induction, repression, and inhibition of en—
zymes. The role of age, sex, nutrition, current and antecedent
diseases, and enzymatic, immunologic, and genetic factors in
the modification of these processes is an integral and important
aSpect of the studies. Mechanisms of additive, synergistic, and
antagonistic interactions between combinations of agents and
tests of validity and usefulness of the concepts of “threshold”
and “no threshold” effects also are areas of primary interest.
Systems of concern may be organized at molecular, subcellular,
cellular, tissue, organ, organismic, or population levels.

The Environmental Pathogenesis Program deals with the
details and time sequence of molecular, structural, and func—
tional changes that eventually result in illness or death.
Environmentally-related changes in pulmonary and cardiovascu—
lar systems, liver, kidneys, reproductive system, digestive tract,
central and peripheral nervous systems, and degenerative disor-
ders of complex and long-term etiology have been documented
and are subjects of active research.

Efforts are being made to define early changes at threshold
effect levels of toxicants to facilitate development of early indi-
cators of damage before the disease process becomes irreversible.

Additional important aspects of the program include selection
and validation of animal species more representative of man for
specific disorders, development of better chemical and physical
test procedures for indicating incipient disease and for evaluat-
ing the extent of pathology at specific sites, and development of
mathematical and test models that will afford predictive capa-
bility regarding human risk and permit low dose extrapolation
of data from experimental systems to man.

Sometimes there is a degree of overlap in this program with
certain program elements of other NIH Institutes. In such
cases, NIEHS has primary responsibilities only when the focus
and emphasis of research is on processes by which environmental
agents induce disease and not on the organ or tissue per re.

The overall goal of the Environmental Mutagenesis and
Reproductive Toxicology Program is to safeguard the genetic
heritage, reproductive capacity, and well-being of progeny of
man against environmental toxicants. Specific objectives are to
clarify the nature and structure-activity relations of chemicals in
air, water, food, and various special risk environments capable
of altering the genetic make—up of man, reducing reproductive
capability, or damaging the embryo or fetus at any stage of
differentiation and development; to develop reliable test systems
with unequivocal quantitative relevance to man for detection
and quantification of mutations in somatic and germinal cells
and of teratological defects in the conceptus; and to elucidate

47

 




 

molecular and cellular mechanisms in mutagenesis and repro-
ductive anomalies.

Toward these goals, NIEHS seeks to develop mutagenesis
and teratogenesis test methods and systems which are less
time-consuming, complex, and costly and to devise theoretical
and practical ways of translating results from such tests to man.
Improvements in systems involving Drosop/aila spp., host
mediated assays, cultured cell transformations, radiation sensi-
tive mutants, and protein and enzyme changes are sought which
will broaden the applicability and sensitivity of the tests and
make them more meaningful in terms of identifying human
risks. Parallel efforts are being made to find reliable direct
indicators from man, including methods for detection of
changes in readily available fluid and cellular fractions of biopsy
and surgical specimens, umbilical cord blood, amnionic ﬂuid,
lung and body cavity lavages, semen, blood, lymph, and urine.
Such studies include elucidation of the frequency and
mechanism of the various types of mutations and the relation—

ships between the chemical and physical properties of mutagens
and teratogens and their effects on genetic and regulatory sys-
tems. DNA repair mechanisms are being studied to determine
repair capabilities within specific stem and somatic cells and,
thus, establish quantitative relationships between mutagenesis
and teratogenesis and environmental levels of specific agents.

48

Support Mechanisms

Support mechanisms in all program areas include Research
Project and Program Project Grants and Research Career De-
velopment Awards. Research Training and University—based
Center Grants also are supported under circumstances and for
the purposes indicated on the following pages. Grant Programs
are administered through the Office of the Associate Director for
Extramural Programs, NIEHS, in conjunction with the Divi—
sion of Research Grants at the National Institutes of Health.

Research Project and Program Project Grants: Because of
the lack of a broad base of fundamental knowledge in the en-
vironmental health area, NIEHS invests a large portion of its
budget in support of highly meritorious investigator-initiated
research project and program project grants. It is believed that
SUPPOFting research by this method is the optimal way ‘10
broaden the nation’s science base in environmental health.

Dual considerations in support of projects are excellence and
relevance to environmental health, specifically, to the effect of
the environment of man’s health. Grants have been awarded to
define the physical, biological, and chemical hazards of the
env1ronment; to determine the significance of these agents to
the origin Of acute and chronic disease; to develop new or im—
proved methodology for analysis and characterization of biologi-
cal effects of known and potentially hazardous agents; and to

 

 




 

 

 

conduct epidemiological studies to test theories on the relation-
ship of environmental factors to disease in man.

Research Career Development Awards: The purpose of
this award is to foster development of non-Federal individuals
with clear research potential who require additional training and
' experience in a productive scientific environment in preparation
for careers of independent research in the sciences related to
health. Candidates must be nominated by anon-Federal public
or private nonprofit institution engaged in health-related re-
search and located in the United States or its possessions and
territories. They must have at least three years of relevant post-
doctoral experience prior to the beginning date of the award.
Awards are made to eligible institutions on behalf of qualified
candidates; and each awardee is directly responsible to the in-
stitution to which the award is made. New Research Career
Development Awards are limited to a single support period of
five years.

Research Training Program: Grants and awards are of two
types: Institutional Grants for National Research Service
Awards and National Research Service Awards for Individual
Postdoctoral Fellows. Institutional Grants may be awarded to
domestic nonprofit private or non—Federal public institutions to
SL1pport training programs in specified areas of environmental
health research from which a number of awards will be made to
Individuals selected by the institution and program director.

Pre- and postdoctoral trainees may be supported if either or both
levels of training are justified in the application and approved.

Individual Postdoctoral Fellowship Awards are made to indi-
viduals for specific training in environmental health and related
sciences. Awardees are selected as a result of national competi-
tion.

Research areas in which fellowship and institutional training
grant applications will be accepted by the NIEHS are: En-
vironmental Biology, Environmental Epidemiology and Statis-
tics, Environmental Pathology-Pathophysiology, and Environ-
mental Toxicology. Emphasis in Environmental Biology is on
development of methods of testing and evaluation of mutagenic-
ity and teratogenicity of environmental agents in laboratory
animals and human individuals and populations.

The background of individuals who wish to enter any of the
programs may be from one or more disciplinary areas such as
toxicology, pharmacology, biochemistry, genetics, biophysics,
clinical medicine, epidemiology, or statistics. Training sites
(sponsors) must have demonstrated a major commitment to an
ongoing research program in an environmental health sciences
area consistent with the mission of NIEHS.

University-Based Center Grants: Supported by grant, and
programmatically highly related to the Institute’s intramural
research program, the Environmental Health Sciences Centers
are an integral part of the strategy of NIEHS in optimally

49

 




 

serving the national needs in environmental health sciences re—
search and training. They serve to integrate the efforts of scien—
tists in several traditional disciplines and to foster application of
expertise across disciplinary lines to environmental health prob-
lems.

The Centers are made up of scientists who collaborate to
develop fundamental and-practical information about the causes
and nature of environmentally-related diseases. The programs
generally are broad, encompassing all or most of the NIEHS-
program areas described previously. Additionally, the Centers
are located in teaching institutions selected for their ability to
attract and train gifted students in environmental health and
related sciences.

Center grants usually evolve within the University as a result
of integration of a number of highly productive research or
program projects and training activities relevant to the NIEHS
mission. The Center is characterized by a unity of purpose and a
central administration under a Center Director, though the
specific research interests of participants may be diverse.

Funds are provided for administrative costs, capital equip-
ment, general services, and a general fund (core support) which
may be used to fill gaps in essential staff and to explore new
urgent problems as they emerge in any area of environmental
health sciences. It is expected that the University will provide
long—term commitment of physical facilities and staff to foster

50

effective operation and development of the Center consistent
with national health needs.

Because of the variety and complexity of environmental prob—
lems, several Centers with complementary spheres of interest are
required to fulfill the national need. Accordingly, seven
Centers—each with special expertise in one or more of the major
program areas of the Institute—are supported. Among special
areas emphasized at the Centers are interrelationships of expo—
sures to heavy metals, pesticides, industrial by-products,
naturally—occuring toxins, and air pollutants, singly or in com-
bination, with respiratory and circulatory diseases, car—
cinogenesis, teratogenesis, mutagenesis, neural and behavioral
aberrations, and other overt and subtle physiological anomalies.
In addition, epidemiologic studies are being conducted at or
near industrial sites, in large urban areas, and in a number Of
rather special life situations where some potential environmental
risks have been identified.

In total, these Centers serve as a vital national resource.
NIEHS serves as the focal point, playing an important coor-
dinating and collaborating role; while each Center provides a
framework in which a broad spectrum of research can be integ-
rated and brought to bear on a variety of problems.

 




 

 

 

\'- '

'\\\\" ' ‘.
why” 1- ‘"

'-‘.\\

\“ Gi$ L} —

 

s
"‘
‘\
‘-

 

 

 

tttt
l

 
 
  
  
 

 
 

 

a; 35%! QI9$ /:V
o‘ g’ r” I /
m. 3.4% was

V

“‘1 ‘¢
'Vv’l Q“ \
55“” ‘\

 

TECHNOLOGICAL SURVEILLANCE

The Technological Surveillance Program attempts to
identify unsuspected existing or potential hazards to man and
the environment from chemicals of present or future use. Expo-
sure may occur during manufacture ofa product, during use of
the material, or by means of inappropriate waste disposal

techniques.
These technological surveillance activities involve a literature

search for available information on technological processes and
toxicologic reactions due to chemicals as reported from occupa-
tional exposure or experimental bioassay. Analyzing all available
information should lead to proper assessement of potential
health hazards or the identification of research needs that will
have to be met before a proper assessment of the hazards can be

made.

51

 

  




 

This program has classified chemical process industries by
product types, such as plastics, agricultural chemicals, rubber
products, etc. Emphasis has been placed on characterization of
chemicals that go into production, usage of these chemicals at
this time, and any information available or predicted regarding
future developments. Attention also is focused on situations
where economic pressures may force changes in industrial proc-
essing which may lead to aggravation of health hazards. Today,
a good example is the difficulty envisaged in meeting the energy
requirements of the United States by conventional fuels. This
requires a look at all potential energy sources and appropriate
utilization of these raw materials for energy production on the
one hand, and chemical industries on the other. Many different
facets of potential health effects much be considered in this
connection.

Past assessments of toxicologic potentials are being updated
and kept under surveillance. These include the survey of addi—
tives for the plastic industries (i.e., plasticizers, stabilizers,
flame retardants, fillers, and antioxidants), the problem of
gasoline additives and changes in gasoline composition resulting
from restrictive acrion requiring change in the use of heavy
metals, and a search in the rubber industry for chemicals of
likely toxicity because epidemiologic studies have focused on
the industry as contributing to an excess of chronic disease,
including cancer, in the population.

52

Another approach focuses on specific organ toxicity to ascer-
tain what chemical entities are producing these conditions in
laboratory animals. In this way, the Institute may be in a better
position to understand the occurrence of some disease that may
be found in people exposed to these specific chemicals.

To supplement the program’s industrial and environmental
surveillance activity, a contract has been supported which
searches the literature, obtains reports, and makes contact with
experts inside and outside industry for information on the chem—
ical and physical properties of metallic compounds reaching
man’s environment in air, water, food, or consumer products
which may prove hazardous to man. The information obtained
will determine whether research on the health effects of the
compounds in question should be undertaken and in which
direction it should go.

A second contract investigates the fate of toxic trace elements
reaching the soil. These elements may affect the microflora or
become altered by fungi and bacteria, and they can reach plants
which may be of great economic importance as sources of food
for animals and man. It is essential to study these elements,
particularly when the anticipated increased utilization of C0211
will lead to greater deposition of toxic trace elements in soil near
power stations. Whether these trace elements go to edible parts

of the plants needs to be established for different plants and
different elements.

 




 

 

          
  
 

'; sax \

‘\ .-‘.
‘-

LIAISON

Because the mission of the NIEHS is so broad, it is essential
that the Institute be aware of apparent and real overlaps with
programs of other agencies and organizations concerned with
environmental health. By maintaining close contact with these
groups, NIEHS is able to set its priorities to meet the informa-
tion needs of regulatory and health agencies. In this fashion,
unnecessary duplication of effort is avoided and collaborative
efforts are mounted which result in an efficient utilization of

f€SOL1fC€S.

53

 




 

Continuing liaison with other agencies and organizations is
realized through frequent contacts between scientists and ad—
ministrators of NIEHS and staff of these groups and through
participation in work of interagency committees. Much effective
coordination of the research programs of the Institute'with those
of other groups occurs through participation of Institute scien—
tists and staff in national and international scientific meetings.

Additionally, NIEHS sponsors a series of conferences, the
purpose of which is to assess the present state of knowledge
about, and possible human health impacts of, potentially
hazardous environmental agents from a variety of sources. These
conferences provide a forum for open and direct exchange of
information between scientists working on different aspects of
the same scientific problem. By inviting the participation of
scientific press, these meetings serve a useful means of com—
municating research findings to the public. In addition,
through its journal, ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH
PERSPECTIVES, the Institute publishes the proceedings of
these meetings to insure maximum communication of research
results. These conferences frequently lead to identification of
new research directions to be undertaken by NIEHS and other
groups concerned with environmental health problems.

The Office of the Associate Director fOr Program is the focal
point for contributions from NIEHS scientists to the critical
assessment of environmental impact statements and effluent

54

limitations guidelines for the Office of the Assistant Secretary
for Health. These documents are prepared by other agencies of
the Government and require comments or criticism by HEW.
This Institute is one of the frequent respondents to the Depart—
ment on these matters.

 




INTERNATIONAL ACTIVITIES

In addition to a wide variety of informal contacts with foreign
Scientists and institutions through direct communication and
V13 Participation in international meetings and sympOSla,
NIEHS participates in several formal agreements—under the
general direction of the Associate Director for Interagency
Prof5f61f118~involving collaborative research efforts with the
Sov1et Union and japan.

 

  
  

33

 




 

 

 

 

Cooperative Programs

Under terms of “The Medical Science and Public Health
Cooperative Agreement" between the United States and the
Soviet Union, scientists from b0th countries are to cooperate on
a regular, long-term basis in the areas of heart disease, cancer,
arthritis, influenza and acute respiratory diseases, and problems
associated with the environment. Under the environmental
health portion of the US-USSR Cooperative Agreement on
Health—the U.S. Coordinator of which is the NIEHS
Director—NIEHS and several other American research insti-
tutes have developed a collaborative research program with sev-
eral Soviet scientific institutes to explore three problem areas in
environmental health: (1) the methodological basis for the as-
sessment of the biological effects of inhaled chemicals, (2) the
methodological basis for the assessment of the biological effects
of orally introduced chemicals, and (5) the scientific basis for the
assessment of the complex biological effects of chemicals (in—
haled and introduced orally). These three general areas are sub-
divided into eight specific topics for cooperation. In addition to
collaborative research programs developed and subsequent ex—
change visits by scientists arranged during the initial three years
of the environmental health portion of the agreement, there
have been other accomplishments. In December 1974, Ameri-
can and Soviet researchers met at the invitation of the Soviet
government in Riga, Latvia, to present results of their coopera—

56

tive work to date. Including the papers delivered at the sym-
posium, by the end of 1973 over twenty scientific articles will
have been published by American and Soviet scientists on en-
vironmental health research conducted under the auspices of th€
agreement. A first draft of a Russian-English glossary of en—
vironmental health terms has been completed and is being
edited before being published in 1975 in both countries-

The US-USSR Agreement on Cooperation in the Field of
Environmental Protection calls for development of direct
cooperation between scientific-research institutions of the
United States and the Soviet Union. This cooperation is aimed

at addressing the most important aspects of problems of the
environment and is devoted to working out measures to prevent
pollution, to study pollution and its effects on the environment,
and to develop a basis for controlling the impact of human
activities on nature. Such cooperation is being implemented in
eleven particular areas of which the “Biological and Genetic
Effects of Pollutants” is one. The NIEHS Director serves as
Co-Chairman of the working group in this area. During the
initial three years of this agreement, NIEHS scientists have been
collaborating with other American and Soviet scientists in the
evaluation of the biological and genetic consequences of pollut-
ants. In April 1975, a joint workshop was held in New York
City on ”Basic and Practical Approaches to Environmental
Mutagenesis and Carcinogensesis”.

 




As part of the US-Japan Medical Science Program, N IEHS
participates in a collaborative" effort to develop methods for
evaluating mutagenesis and carcinogenesis. Under this pro—
gram, the U.S. Environmental Panel—chaired by the Chief of
the NIEHS Environmental Mutagenesis Branch—has organized
tWO major workshops and conferences. The first was a confer-
ence on “Monitoring the Problem of Mutagenesis and Car-
Cangenesis in Man” and was held August 6—7, 1974, in Tokyo,
Japan. Participants presented case studies on environmental and
occupational carcinogens and mutagens, reviewed laboratory
tests for carcinogens and mutagens, and discussed monitoring
Systems to evaluate carcinogenic and mutagenic effects. On De-
cember 9—1 1, 1975, a workshop on the mutagenicity of chemi-
cal carcinogens was held in Honolulu, Hawaii. There, partici-
Pantshreviewed the status of mutagenicity data from tests of 152
Chemical carcinogens and non-carcinogenic structural analogs
and other non—carcinogenic chemicals.

Cooperation with the World Health Organization (WHO)
by N IEHS has continued since the return of the Associate Direc—
tor for Program from Geneva where he was stationed for 14
moflths.’ While there, he initiated a program to prepare and
revrew international health criteria documents. This program
has now produced several well-composed and critically-
evaluated documents which will serve as the basis for setting
Standards for environmental pollutants in the countries of all
member governments.

Stimulated by awareness that new chemical industries may
spring up in developing countries without adequate assessment
of the potential toxicity of chemicals or by-products, WHO
held a conference on this topic. Additionally, WHO plans to
hold annual meetings in association with NIEHS on specific
industrial developments that need international assessment of
health hazards as they exist today or may be in the future. The
first of these meetings will be held in North Carolina in the fall
of 1975, and will deal with potential health hazards relating to
the rubber and plastics industry.

The Associate Director for Program, as consultant to WHO,
attends meetings of international agencies, such as the United
Nations’ Environmental Program (UN EP) on the role of the UN
in coordinating assessment of environmental problems in the
energy field, the joint Group of Experts on Scientific Aspects of
Marine Pollution (GESAMP) meeting on the evaluation of tox-
icity of waste materials reaching the oceans, etc.

He also cooperates with the International Agency for Re-
search on Cancer (IARC), Lyon, France, in the preparation of
monographs for the evaluation of carcinogenic risks to man from

exposure to specific chemicals.

37

 




 

 

 

 

NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH

SCIENCES
Director .......................... Dr. David P. Rall Environmental Mutagenesis,

ACting Associate Director Chief ................... Dr. Frederick J. de Serres
for Extramural Programs ----- Dr. COPE“ D- LeMunyan Environmental Toxicology, Chief .. Dr. Robert L. Dixon
Associate Director . . Pharmacology, Chief ............. Dr. james R. Fouts
fornlnteragency Programs """" Dr. Phlhp E' Schambra Assistant to the Director—Contracts . . . Dr. John L. Braun
Assoc1ate Director for Program ........... Dr. Hans L. Falk Executive Officer ................. George M. Kingman

Intramural Research Branches _
Environmental Biology ASSistant Executive Officer ............ Robert P. Cullen
and Chemistry, Chief .......... Dr. john A. Moore Personnel Officer ..................... A.L. Wade, Jr.
Environmental Biometry, Chief .. .. Dr. David G. Hoel Budget Analyst ---------------- Peggy J McKinney
Environmental Biophysics, Public Information Specialist ......... Elizabeth Y. james
Acting Chief .................... Lyle D. Thomas Research Services Branch, Chief ......... Lyle D. Thomas

PHONE: (919) 549-8411
POST OFFICE BOX 12233
RESEARCH TRIANGLE PARK,

NC. 27709
58

 

 

 

 

 

 




DISCRIMINATION PROHIBITED—Title VI of the Civil Right;
Act of I 964 ftdlefi “No perjon in the United Statej chall, on the gronnd
of race, color, 5696, age, or national origin, he excluded from participa-
tion in, he denied the henefitt of, or he snhjected to diccrimination under
any program or activity receiving Federal ﬁnancial asyistance. ” There—
fore, the National I njtitnte of Environmental Health Sciencej, like every
program or activity receiving financial accictance from the Department of
Health, Edacation, and Welfare, mnjt he operated in compliance with

thi; law.

59

 




 

 

 

 

“A
é '

 

/.f

1 \\

\‘n‘

.c...

.. ‘ »\1 r;- / /‘J

\ « 'IA’-' 7 I'm - r: 72- — ..
,4:u;;'//////11A\\W///////./////1/ ﬁgggﬁg “We F 5*
I

 

mi

"u t v,"
1;» r

-...:-_

in.“ _

‘ I
u \ m g, m

\\‘\?\\\§\‘f

\
“*-
I» h"; 4 .

 

 

 

 




DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH, EDUCATION, AND WELFARE

Public Health Service
National Institutes of Health

DHEW Publication No. NIH 76—932

 




Tumour." ,Wm 4 ".7 1'
I

i {3

rmnu! 1h»

-- m‘ mm...— ‘u‘A.

“1:1 Pois 011

v. «<1 1‘ “T“ M”

11111

‘idih’tid

Wafers

‘, 3111111 to 3 Children

~~~'I'hr430
(lead :md 11
1: , . stating, muk
11*: 111.111 had soaked in a rat
authwiﬂoa say has:
iCI\){(‘.
1hr children
vanilla W211;-
bufur‘dza}. that had been
,‘~.\‘.’?5";Qd m ;~'«.‘.:iun‘= “Horace
”1:13.“. 13111111111111£y known a
(1D,,111Uli11 “1'30. ‘he "i1’113~
"11 .11? 112an Wt: 1121‘s 11'111’11 11.11
'2'111311911111“;11111.4(.

11 m1. rionhz:

’I)[II-1'\.\’i". 1,)1LIL1.
E1111'! ’1
' ii? 1:!"101‘

EII‘KF

11015011
:11‘1 hum-1V1: :1 m
1"(1‘11171’ +1115?
1111;111:113“).- 1111;"

sit-12115131 :11
Exgi, ;“

1‘ A, «III
311111712! 11;“
1111510 11* 1111* L‘4»1."1‘1,1*

111121 11111111?

PIN: P11111411.

141118171111... ,‘Micl'x ~17 :1‘1‘1‘101‘5
from across M 7111:511
[nought domns of dead 1, 0 ws
and calves to the. capitol m

--~r... -mwu....__. 1...--. _,~._...._.... w-.-’ .-. ., . _.

11)?
PB B

derati'zc 1.11011 (1011mm
tighter 111111118110115
(«mm1111'11‘111011.
Th1}
(11131;? [(11:11

0 1'1

:.‘11111‘:1:11s (11111111 11:11!
PRU unimmil ’ 111‘
\1’1‘1'11 xiszug‘m 1111-1! by 1'11!
t'ar‘x'nm‘s: thernselvvs 1’81: 15
11131111411111 nun-rial used as a
111-? retardinn
1-\ spokesman for the
group said the carcasses
m‘w 11111111041 tn 111‘1’1VP Hm?
“1-2111; 2111.1113113'171‘1‘1 11-1 '91
W11 ("Madly ‘10 (at?!
111 to huma 11:4.
11Ff'i1i-?:1If: 1:215
.mminnt‘ 111‘ {hr

~27 .1”
4'411111
~1“:.‘1~.‘1§I ': st‘ 11-1 111.1011?

:11‘11 '11:;11‘1‘111
3151i»: 110115111

(“ﬂ“tu‘

9 11.1111 1'11

,n
.':- H ‘1
‘IK ‘LL‘

’j)7~i:.
11\U("h\

2;!l\\'VK"

\x'nl'Kt‘l'r;

‘1

.\ , '
.‘.- k. -l
““514 1'- 1

4.211111"

T\1 1‘1'1;I '[1‘;

«“1111‘1
'tsnnnw
1:11:11; 111'

1‘1)»

")(j \‘J'Ol‘l '\.'l\

"VY'\ hit?"
I
Y

'\\‘(
"7111 1’11 11111: 11:1
“111111111111 1111111111:
(1111"‘"(! 1.1V priFUH Zz‘l

tip :1. 11111111 ((1 hm 1117111111
111131 1-1112"? in Ek'lissismixin'n
“11111.11 7;: hours after 1.391.119
YORK-18PM.

“"1151; 1‘51;

Mum and 1191113 dispatchw.

H.151 WAD!" .

 

 

 




SOCIETY FOR ANlMAL PROTECTNE LEGISLATION
P. O. Box 3719
thown Station
WUhhmmmELCLZMD7

January 16, 1976

Dr. Robert White, Administrator ,

National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
U.S. Department of Commerce

Washington, D.C. 20230

Dear Dr. White,

Since I spoke with you concerning the investigation made by
the National Marine Fisheries SerVice of companies that advertised
whale oil in the 197M Thomas Register, we have checﬁed on ad-
vertisements in the 1975 Thomas Register. Enclosed are copies
of listings under Oils: Whale, Sperm, etc. and Spermaceti.

These advertisements promote a market for these products
although interstate sales are forbidden under the Endangered
Species Act.

We note in your letter of August A, 1975 to Chairman Leggett
the following statement: "It is our considered opinion that
advertisements and listings in newspapers, magazines, specialized
directories and trade journals do not constitute an 'offer for
sale in interstate or foreign commerce' within the prohibitions
of the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (the Act), regardless of
the interstate circulation of the advertising or listing medium
itself."

Such an interpretation of the law seems to be unduly re-
strictive. We wonder whether it is inconsistent with the purposes
and policies of the Act, and further if there is sufficient legal
basis for this interpretation. Could you let us know the
authority for so narrow an interpretation?

Unless something is done, companies will continue to ad-
vertise their products and the likelihood of additional illegal
activities continues to grow.

We note some inconsistencies between what the companies
apparently told your investigators and what they are actually
doing. For example, according to Enclosure #1 of your letter,
the W.A. Wood Company representatives "indicated that sperm oil
replacements were being utilized and future transactions involving

 

 




whale sperm oil would not be made." Yet in the 1975 Thomas
Register listing the W.A. Wood Company appears under "Oils:
Whale, Sperm, Etc." with the specific word "sperm" after its
name as contrasted with some other companies in this list who
specify after their names "substitute sperm oil" of "sperm sub—
stitutes. 1

Other companies investigated by NMFS in 197A that are still
listed under "Oils: Whale, Sperm, Etc." in the 1975 Thomas
Register include Salem Oil and Grease; Nopco Chemical Division,
Diamond Shamrock Chemical Company; Werner G. Smith; Mayco Oil and
Chemical Company; Leatex Chemical Company; Neatfoot Oil Refineries
Corporation; and Stevenson Bro. and Company, Inc. You will note
that in addition to the heading under which they are-listed,
Werner G. Smith specifies "sperm filtered" and Neatfoot Oil
Refineries Corporation specifies "sperm."

Under the heading "Spermaceti" the following companies
investigated by NMFS in 197M are still listed in the 1975 Thomas
Register: Archer Daniels Midland Company, Neatfoot Oil Refineries
Corporation, and Stevenson Bro. and Company, Inc.

We note under the Summary of Findings in Enclosure #1 "The
company representatives advised investigating agents that Werner
G. Smith actively offered sperm oil products for sale in inter-
state commerce. A review of the activities of this company, in
view of the opinion issued by the Attorney General's Office, is
continuing at this time. " The date of investigation is given as
September 9, 197A. We wonder about the result of the continuing
investigation in this and other cases. It is clear that these
matters warrant further examination.

Sincerely,

Christine Stevens-
Secretary

CS/th

cc: William Brewer, General Counsel, NOAA
Chairman Robert Leggett
Hon. Russell Peterson, Chairman, Council on Environmental Quality
Nathaniel Reed, Assistant Secretary, Dept. of Interior
Antonin Scalia, Assistant Attorney General
Victor Scheffer, Chairman, Marine Mammal Commission
Senator John Tunney

 




 

D .. :14 _: -

~05 , -. --

,—

FI’

2% ‘42 4?

...-.-

sirqﬁiﬁ 5531: if

..
- “P

*6??? .

SPEEDERS

'Wvo‘.s»4‘ - 4. in .. ~. ,.. .I. so. .

THOMAS REGISTER 1975

 

SPEEDERS
COL: DENVER
METION INSTRUﬂNTS. INC. 1084 8. Platte River
buses—14411”) A
CONN NEW BRITAIN
Litton industrial Products. Hand Tools Div. PD So:

1320

MINN. MINNEAPOLI

ZERO-MAX INDUSTRIES INC. 2847 Harrlet Ave. S.

(812—827 -8281) AA

NY. DOHEMIA .

Parker Industries Inc. PO Box 486 .............................. AA
NY. NORTH TONA WANDA

St Mary Manufacturing Corp. 1280 Erie Ave ......... AAA
WIS. RACINE

Dumore Co., The 1300 Seventeenth St. (Drill)... AAAA

SPEEDOMETER ACCESSORIES
C:AL SAN LEANDRO
Davis Instruments Corp. 867 Thornton St. (Marine)..
CONN: STAM MOF
JONES MOTROLA D.CORP 430 Falrﬂeld Ave. (Flexible
Shafts. Speed Increasers. Adaptors. Etc.) (2 OHZAIA

8440)
ILL: CHICAGO
Stewart Warner instrument Division 1848 Diversey
Pkwy. Speedometers, Gears. Adaptors, Shafts,
Panels A
MASS. WORCESTER
Automatic Products Corp. 128 W. Boyiston Dr (Small)K

Pa "1
MASSTECH DIV. CURTIS I MARBLE CORP. 78
Cambridge St. (Flexible Shafts. Adapters. Etc)
(817—781-8118) AAA
MICH. FLINT
AC Spark Plug Div. 1300 N. Dort Highway (Magnetic
8i E18 c.) .AA AAA
NJ. PISCA TA WA Y
White, S. 8., Industrial Products, Pennwalt
Corporation 161 Old New Brunswick Rd (Flexible
Shaft) AA AAA
OHIO. EAST CANTON
Merit Plastics Inc 400 W. Nassau St (Cables) ............ X
PA. NORTH WAL LES
TELEFLEX INCORPORATED P O. Box 17 T (Drives)A
(216—888-4881) AAA
(For sales offices see Volume 7)
WASH. SEATTLE
FloScan Instrument Co. 3018- T N. E. Blakeiy St
(Speed Transducers for Automobiles) ........................ A

SPEEDOMETERS: SPEED &
DISTANCE INDICATORS, METERS.
RECORDERS. ETC.

CAL: CONCORD
KodeKey Electronics Inc 10906 Detroit Ave
(Electronic)
Larson Aero Development P. 0
Rotation) .............................................................................. X
CAL: IRVINE
Taicor instruments, Inc. 17786 Sky Park Cir., PO Box
C.V (Boat, Wind) ................................................................. X
CAL: LOS ANGELES
Rotiform Corp. 2008 Cotner Ava (Digital, Printing). X
CAL. SAN LEANDRO
Davis Instruments Corp. 867 Thornton St (Marina)..
CONN. GUILFORD
Kenyon Marine New Whitfield ............................................ X
CONN STAMFORD
JONES MOTROLA CORP. 430 Fairfield Ave (Police.
Racing 8: Diesel Vehicles) (203—327-8440)” ...AAA

up WEE

Speedometers for trucks, po-
lice and oft-highway vehi-
cles. More rugged, longer
life greater accuracy. Many
models.

Jones Motroia Corporation
430 Fairlieid Ave. Stamford.
Conn.06904

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

FLA BONITA SPRINGS
Sonco Mfg Inc PO Box 418 (Auto 8 Marine) ............ A
ILL. EARRING TON
Marine Industries Inc. 1000 W. NW Hwy. (Boot.
ElectrOnic) ............................................................................. A
ILL. CHICAGO
Airvide Instrument Co. 2210 Wabansis Ave
erine) ........................................................................
Stewart- Warner instrument Division 1848 DiverseA
Pkwy. (Meters Recorders. Etc).. A221
Vapor Cor 8420 W. Howard St (For Trains, Ra id
ransit ahicies 8i Commuter Cars) ................. AAA
ILL. DECATUR
Decatur Electronics, Inc. 726 Bright St. (Radar SpeedA
Meters) ...............................................................................
ILL. ELGIN
Auto Meter Products, Inc. 22 South State St .............. 8
Kat industries inc. 863 Dundee Ave. .................. AAAA
ILL. PHINGFIELD
San arno Electric Co PO Box 3347
(achograph) ............................................................... AAAA
ILL. (WEST CHICAGO
Contrulcraft Corp. 221 Main St. (Standard 8i Special
Electronic Cr stal Controlled) ....................................... A
IND INDIANAP LIS
Estariine An us A Unit oi Estsrlina Corp. PO. Box
24000- T (‘E Electric Speed Recorders) ................ AAAA
ME PORTLAND
Denforth Div. 600 Riverside Industrial Pkwy. (Boats,

 

 

 

 

 

Long Scale Mater Readout With Electronic Log For
Power SI Sail) ...... . .......... AAA
MD. ANNAPOLIS
SIMERL R A INSTRUMENT DIV. 238 West St.
(Nautical, Electronic Rotstin Pro lier T
Ranges 0-12 Arbitrary Units (30 «8481:87) ........A
MASS WORCESTER
MASSTECH DIV. CURTIS 8i MARBLE CORP. 78
Cambridge St. (817-—781-8118).. ....-. ...AAA
(Tachometere. electronic & mechanical. for accu-
rate indication of speed or production rate. 8nd
switches. engine controllers. heur matere.s l
alarms 8i accessory equipment)
MICH JACKSON
AEROOUIP CORP. AMB DIVISION 300 S. East Ave.
(Railroad) (817—7832686) ............................. .. AAAA
MICH. SPRING LAKE
Medallion instruments, Inc. 917 W Savidge St.
(Marine)
NJ. EA TONTOWN
Smith 8i Wesson Electronics Co. Meridian Rd.
NJ. JERSEY CITY
En ler instrument Co. 248 Culver Ave. ................ AAAA
NJ. EWARK
We not Electric Corporation 1 Summer Ave.
ecordin
NJ. OSELA D
Aqua Mater instrument Corp. 486 Eagle Rock Ave.
(Power Boat) AAA
Ketcham 8 McDougall, inc 486 Eagle Rock Ave.
- Marine) AAA
NY. INGHAM TON
STOW MANUFACTURING CO. 400 Bum Rd. (Flexible

’4 (for sales Ices see Volume
:NYﬁ C
“‘1‘

ALLS
rabueut cone. Executive Park
49061

 

NY. FREEPORT

inscom Electronics Corp P O. Box 728 -.T 282 W
Sunrise Hwy. (Engineering Design 8 Prototype
I‘ Development). ... ..
NY. NEW YORK .r
B 858 Motor 8 Control Corp. Spring 8 Mercer
ts.
Mrsylsn Stopwatch Corp. 284 W. 40th St

schometers)
S CHT. HERMAN H. CO. iNC. 27 Park Place (Speed
Ind icetore I Tachometers) (212-7 372-8183). ..... AAA
ZERNICKOW. 0.. C0, INC. 13-21 Park Row (Speed
Icstore 8 Techometere) (212—227-2284) ........... X
NY. UT "TAIC
CHICAGO PNEUMATIC TOOL DIVISION (Locomotive
Recorders) (318—738-827 1) AAA
NY. WOODSIDE
VeIoII Equipment Corp. 47- 68 48th St. (Heavy Duty
For Trucks, Trailers, Etc) ............................................. AA
OHIO. CLEVELAND
Gilmore Industries, inc. 3363 Richmond Rd. ...... AAAA
MARX. CLARENCE J. CO. 21800 Lakeshore Blvd.
(Tachometers) (218—7311717)...
RELIANCE ELECTRIC COMPANY 24701 Euclid Ave"
(Speed Indicators) (218—288-700) .................... AAAA
(For sales offices see Volume 7)
OHIO. MADISON
MADISON ELECTRIC PRODUCTS. INC. 6447 S.
Madalson Rd. (Electric Speed Indicators) (218—288- A

 

 

 

327
PA. PHILADELPHIA
ELECTRIC TACHOMETER CORP" THE 8748 Upland
St. (Elec.) (216—728 7723) AA
(Railway and dynamometer speed Indicators and
counters)
PA: PL YMOUTH MEETING
BIDDLE. JAMES 0.. CO. (Speed Indicators 8i
Tachometers) (2 16~848 8200) ............................ AAAA
PA. VANDERBILT
Nu- Metrics Div. of Pentron Industries Sampey Bldg.
PO Box 488 AAAA
TEX. EL PASO
KERNCO INSTRUMENTS C0. INC. 708 N. Piedres 81..
Dept. TR (818—888-8861) A

‘A' SPELTER
(see Solder Mfrs; Complete List; Zinc: Slab
WSgeiternl-YN
ROOKL
NBELMONT METALS lNC DIV. 0F BELMONT

SMELTING a nirmirie WORKS me 320 Belmont
Ave (212—342 49001AAAA

 

 

 

 

 

' METALS I~c.,
. Dmsiorl oi Belmont Swelling 8 Reliriing Mike Inc
320 Belmont Avenue 0 Brooklyn. N. Y 11207
N V FYI/3424“” ' N J 201/6244004

 

 

 

 

 

AAAA

NY. MA YBROOA
EASTERN ALLOYS. INC. 424 Henry Manning Or. (lino)

SPERMACETI
FLA JACKSONVILLE
Union Camp Corp, Chemical Div. P. O Box 8170 .
(Substitute). AAAA
ILL. DECATUR .
Archer Daniels Midland Co 4888 Feries Pky. ..
NJ. JERSEY CITY
Ross Frank 8. Co.,
NY. NEW YORK
Mutchler Chemical Coinpeny, Inc. 280 Broadway

AAAA
Inc 4 Ash St

I' I
STROHMEYER 8i ARPE CO. INC De ert. W. One World
Tiade Center Suite 4887 (Wait) (2 2—432-
8160 I AAAA
NY. PORT WASHINGTON
Salomon L A. & Bro. Inc. 14 Venderventer Ave, PO
Box 82 8 AA
NY. SYRACUSE
Bowdlaar W H. CO. PO. 80x 711 ................................... C
Will & Beumer Candle Co. Inc Park St. N. ......... AAAA
PA. PHILADELPHIA
Nostfoot Oil Refineries Corp. E Ontario 8 Bath. ..AAA
Stevenson Bro Svgo inc 1038 W. Venango 51.. .A

ER

(808 Tower Mfrs.: Complete List)

A SPHERED: COATED
(boa Mutal Spray COutIrio)
PA APOL L0
NUCLEAR MATERIALS & EQUIPMENT CORP. A
SUB. 0P BAbCOCK ‘ VVILCOX C0. 000 WIND“
AV. 1012—4542-0111) .. ...............AAAA

SPHERES: HOLLOW STEEL 8i
FIBERGLASS

ILL. ELK GROVE VILLAGE
CHICAGO FLOAT WORKS 230 Scott 8L (Stainless
Stu!) (312—4-438— 8100) ................................................... ..A
NY. GARDEN CITY
Novaglas Corp. 1 De Saversky Plaza (Molded
Fiberglas Spheres Only) ................................................. A
WIS: BUTLER
Church Motel Spinning Co 6062 H.1241h 51., PO.
Box 816 (Spun Metal) ........................................ .AA

SPHERES: SAFETY
MICH: THOY
Design Products Corp 1923 W. Maple Rd.
(Transparent Ploxiglese) .................................................. X

SPHYGMOMANOMETERS
CAL: HAYWARD
Norse Systems, Inc. 3476 Investment Blvd. .................. A
NJ. RUTHERFORD
Bacton, Dickinson 8i Co. (Desk, Wall 8 Utility Styles;
Floor Unit) ................................................................... AAAA
NJ. SPARTA
Haitz Instruments. Inc. PO. Box 234-T 8
NY: COPIAGUE
Baum. W. A., Co., Inc. .X
NY: HUNTINGTON STA TION
U. M. A., inc. 1328 New York Ave. (Blood
Pressure) .............................................................................. AA
NY: LONG ISLAND CITY
Propper Mfg. Co., inc. 36 04 Skiiiman Ave. .................. A
NC. ARDEN
Taylor Instrument, Consumer Products Div, Sybron
Corp (AIIUIOId ........................................................ AAAA
PA: NEWTOWN OUARE
ParFate)ch inc. PO. Box 351 (Miniature Edge Gages
or

SPHYGMO- OSCILLOMETERS
NY. HUNTINGTON STA T/O
U. M. A., Inc. 1328 New York Ave (8: Accessories) AA

SPIDERS
CAL. LONG BEACH
Cavine Co. 2883 Cherry Ave (Air Powered For ‘
Tubing II CasirI )
Shuil Perforating 0. PO. Box 18047 (0)) Well) ........ A

8108

 

 

 

 

 

CAL. SAN JOSE
Bean Rubber Mfg. Co. 1823 S. 10th at Phela‘ﬁ ﬁ
ubailns Support For Turbine .Pumups, Tubes A)“

l CONN: IdeHrH'" HA

VENW
Kin Alfred 8.. Co 20 Devine (Annealing)
ILL HICAGO
Jernbergd Forgings Co. 352 W. Root St . ..
MASS? TAdUNTON M‘
Luzerne Rubber 8i Plastics Co. A Unit 0f Solemn}
industries Corp. 74 Arlington St. (Hard Rubi)" FI
Agitatora) ................................................................... AA;
NJ. E ST ORANGE
Stevens Products, Inc. 128- A N Park 51.. .. 1
NJ. ROSELLE PARK ‘
Orbit Mfg Co” 128 Webster Ave. W '(Loud
Speaker .
OKLA. ENI '
Failin. Geor e, E5 Co (OIIWeii) .......................... AA
OKLA: KMU GEE
New Deal Specialty Co., inc. 700 W. Main St. (Tobi)

Cult};
TEX: HO TON
Dixel industries inc. 4846 Post Oak Place ........ AA
Larkin Div. PO. Box 1348 (Casing, Split 8. ’
SO lid) AA;
Oilfield Products Div. Guiberson OperetIOns 601
Jefferson, Dresser Tower (Oil Well Tubing) AA;

SPIEGEL

(see Silica)

SPIEGELEISEN

(see also Farm-Manganese)
ILL. CHICAGO

Hickman Williams 8 Co. 230 N Michigan Ave AA;
NY. NEW YORK

An Io American Metal 8i Ferro Alloy Corp 28 v.0"

OHIO: CLEVELAND A“
Ogiebay Norton Co. Box 8508 (S 8 A91) “AA;
PA BETHLEHEM
New Jersey Zinc Co. The 2045 City Line Rd AA;

a SPIGOTS
(we Faucet Mfrs. Complete List; Cocks
Classifications)
ORE. PORTLAND
OREGON SPECIALTY COMPANY INC. 7024 'NE
(Mean 81. (bO3—-—2b4-7.494) ...

SPIKE MFRS: COMPLETE LIST

(see also SpuCITIC Classifications Following;
. Nail Mfrs: Complete List)
COL. PUEBLO
CF 8 I Steel Corp P 0 BOX 1830 (Boatn Railroad
TIICK) .................... uAAA
ILL. ALTON
Gibraltar Equipment 8i Mfg Co P O Box 304 K
(Railroad 81 Mine) . . .AAA
ILL CHICAGO
Inland Steel Co 30 W Monroe St (Railroad
flack)... . A“
ILL: PER HU
Maze Nails Div PO. Box 449 (Double Dipped in
Molten Zinc) ............ AAA
ILL. SKOKIE
Brunswick Corp Consumer DIV. 5401 Old OrchsArd
Rd (Baseball Shoe)
MASS H'AREHJLM
TREMONT NAIL C019 Elm St. (Srid a & Boat Cut.
Black 0r Galvanized) (817—-29b—00 8).. AA
MICH HOLLAND
Holland Ladder 8: Mig. Co 4 30 W 17th St.
Ladder)“ .. 1.
MIN MINNEAPOLIS
Lewis Bolt 8i Nut Co. 504 Malcolm Ave SE. ”(West
It Dome Head). All)
NJ BAYONNE '
JERSEY BOLT DIV ATO iNC.-213T Humphreys A»;
(201m338-740014AM
NJ. ENGLEH’OOD L LIFFS
Bo art at Hopper. Inc 111 Charlotte Place
oodan). AMI
NY HAUPPAUGE
Bialer Net'IOIIeI industries 46 T Gilpin Ava (Roofing
SDOCIOIIIOS)“ AMI
NY. NEW YORK
MacEiroy J. C. Co.
NY. STAATSUURG ,
SLUOLIOJIQ Tool Corp. Station Pi. (Marlins)... M"
OHIO CLEVELAND
An all Nail at Chaplet“ Co. 4580 E 7 Ist St ‘
gutter r) .. WA’J‘
OHI LEETONI4 I
Leetonia Tool Co The Holt 8i Main Aves (MDIIIM) -
OHIO MIDDLETOIIVN .
Armco Stool Corporati m P O Box 800 (Railroad W
Track, Bout) .- 4"
(For s;.~' as muck» see Volume 7)
OHIO. YOUNGSTOWN
Youngstown Shoot and Tube Co. P0. 801900 AM
(Railroad) ................. . .. .1
PA BETHLEHEM “
Bethlehem Steel Corp (Boot, Cut Track Roundwi-vv
Guttur D. 1&6. Guard Etc -- M
PA. MOUNT Pl 545 wr u
Modulus Cmp iuoo Modulus Rd (Screw) .......... I)"
PA. PITTSBURGH
Foster L a COIIIpeny coo Seven PM Can‘t" mull)
(Track) ............ ~ ‘
TEX HOUSTON
Rainer Pipe & Rail Co 13018 Sarah. 5 Lane
(Railroad) ....................... 4""
VA. RICHMOND
Tredegar Co. Box 1398 (R R. TraIk, Cut)...

SPIKES: BRIDGE

(809 Spikes: Dock. Wharf. Bridge. etc.)

SPIKES: COUNTERSUNK
IVY: NEW YORK
MacElroy, J C Co. inc. 74 Triniey Plice

SPIKES: DOCK, WHARF, BRIDGE
(see also Nail Mfrs; Complete List)

NJ BAYONNE rm
JERSEY eon DIV ATO, INC. 21 1 Humphml’ “M

(201—3118741001... M

NY: NEW YORK ,, M
MacElroy. J. 0, Co., Inc. 74 Trinity Plsue , ,4

PA: BETHLEHEM AIM,
Bethlehem Steel Corp. ......................... . .. .. I.._

PA.- PITTSBURGH . , LIA
Foster L. 8., Company 600 Seven PM ”I“ TIA“
United States Steel Corp. Sixth 8i Grism '

*SPIKES: GALVANIZED
(886 S’glNkeE Mfrs; Complete LIST)

NJ: BA)
JERSEY BOLT DIV.. ATO INC." 21 T “Humphrey: JD)

(201w339-74OU)..

SPIKES: GOLF SHOE

(see also Cleats: Shea) .3.

MASS: STOUGHTON 1’3“ 2
PHILLIPS r. c iNC 17.; Washington 5‘ I.” M

Nion football and we! Gwa” Nanak!“ -
of shoe spikes. Threaded 0“" 9‘” f0,
'Pikes securely. Wrenches ave aildbh"
or replacing s ik 7)
(For safes” offices see Voliiml

side {Lam

inc. 74 Trinity Place ........... N

\.

(Instructions, In

 




OILS: VISCOUS .
OILS: Viscous -

CAL: LOS ANGELES . . .
Bray Oil Co. 1926 N. Marianna Ave. at Worth .. AAAA
1m ial Oil 6 Grease Company 10980 Wilshire

lvd. . ..... . . AAAA

CAL: ORINDA

Apex Scientilic Co. 69 Donna Marie (Standard 6
Custom Lubricants for precision machinery) ..........

CAL: SAN FRANCISCO .

Standard Oil Co. of California, Western Operations.
Inc. 226 Bush .............................................................. AAA

 

ILL: CHICAGO
Famous Lubricants, Inc. 124 W. 47th St. (No Drip) ..A
NJ: LINDEN -
Cook's Industrial Lubricants Inc. 6 N. Stiles
.. AAAA

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

NJ.’ NEWARK

Non-Fluid Oil Corp. 298 Delancey St. .................... AAAA
NY: COLLEGE POINT

Ore-Lube Corporation 128th St. 8: 18th Ave. AAAA
NY: MOUNT VERNON

KeIIoEg , E. H.. 8: Co., Inc. 69-83 E. First St. ................ AA
NY: N 12’ YORK

Crowley Tar Products Co.. Inc. 283 Madison

Ave.

PA: BUTLER -

Psnreco, A Pennzoil Division 104 S. Main St. AAAA
PA: PHILADELPHIA

Atlantic Richfield Co. 280 S. Broad........................ AAAA
. Sun Oil Company 1808 Walnut St ...................... AAAA
TEX: TEXARKANA .

Humco Lab. Inc. PO. Box 2660 (U.S.P., Light. MedxirA

.. AAAA

 

 

8: Heavy) ..__
OILS: VITRIOL
(see Acid: Sulfuric)

OILS: WATCH & CLOCK

CAL: ORINDA

 

Apex Scientific Co. 69 Donna Marie (Litetinie . *

Lubricating 8r Rust Preventing. Standard 6
C “to” X
DEL: WIL ING TON ‘
Ultrachem, Inc. 1400 N. Walnut St .................................. X
ILL: CHICAGO
Marshall. C. Si E., Co. 1 1 13 W. Belmont Av......... ‘AAAA
MASS: FA IRHA VEN
NYE, WILLIAM F- INC. Howland at River (BU-~998-AA

8121)
MASS: NORTH ATTLEBORO
Lubrx Inc. Rte. 1 .
MICH: FREMONT
Dri-Slide. Inc. One Industrial Perl: .................... : ........... AA
MICH: PORT HURON
Acheson Colloids Co. 1837 Washington Ave.
(Colloidal-Ore hited)
NJ: CA RLSTAD
DIXON. WILLIAM. CO" DIV. OF OROBET FILE CO. OF
AMERICA INC. 162 Washington Ave. (201—936-

0100)
NJ: EDGE WA TER
Octa on Process Inc. 12 Archer Ava.
: CKENSACK
OiIs Inc. Continental Plaza ............................. AAA

K
Oil 6 Supply Co. 239 Wilson Ave........... AAA
NJ: PIS CA TA WAY
Tenneco Chemicals, Organics 6 Polymers Div. PEA

Box 2 ....................................
NY: BROOKL YN
Margoiis, A.. 8 Sons Corp. 1604.08 Atlantic Ava.
(industrial 8 Automotive Oils, Lubricants. Grasses.
Aerosols} AAA
NY: LONG I LAND CITY
Black Bear Co., Inc 44-41 23rd St A
NY: MOUNT VERNON
Kelio . E. H.. & Co.. Inc. 69-83 E. First St ................ AA
NY; N YORK
Hammei, Ri lander 8: Co., Inc. 423.436 Hudson St.
Jobber 1mg) AAAA
NY: OCHESTE
CVC Products, Inc. 1778 ML Read Blvd. AAAA
PA: BRISTOL _
Sanson. Henry E , 8r Sons, Inc. 476 Beaver St. A
PA: PHILADELPHIA
Houghton, E. F.. & Co. 303 W. Lehigh Ave.. Dept.
1 4 ............ . . AAAA
Stevenson Bro. 3. Co., Inc. 1039 W. Venango St ......... A
Zurn, O.F., Com any 2700 N. Broad St. .......................... A
TENN: NASHVI LE
KANO LABORATORIES. INC. 1079 Thompson Lane
(816—83341

01)
OILS: WATERPROOFING
CAL: LOS ANGELES
Bray Oil Co. 1926 N. Marianna Ava. at Worth .. AAAA
CAL: SAN FRANCISCO

Standard Oil Co. of California, Western Operations,

Inc. 226 Bush ............................................................. AAAA
ILL: CHICAGO
Treslr, Arthur C., Corp. 6602 S. Harlem Ava. (For Sole
Leather Im re nation) AAA

IOWA: BURLI G ON

Riley Bros. Inc. 868 Washington ............................
MASS: BROCK TON

Ma ichemical Co., Inc. 123 Crescent St ............ ~ ............. A
MAS : NORTH A TTL EBORO

Lubrx Inc. Rte. 1 ...... A
MICH: NORTH VILLE

Environmental Control Div. PO. Box 83 ............... , ......... A
NJ: FARMINGDALE

Bel-Ra Co.. Inc. 1 1 I Bowman Ave. .......................... , AA
NY: BR OKLYN ’

Margoiis. A.. 8: Sons Corp..1604-08 Atlantic Ave.
(Industrial & Automotive Oils, Lubricants. Greases.
Aerosols) ........................ ' AAA

NY: BUFFALO
Blum, Paul, Co.. Inc. 182-187 Van Rensselaer St.
(Dubbin Wool Grease, Lanolin) .................................... A
NY: COLLE E POINT
Ore-Lube Corporation 128th St. at 18th Ave. AAAA
NY: LONG ISLAND CITY
Black Bear Co., Inc. 44-41 23rd St. .................................. A
NY: MOUNT VERNON
hum E. H., In Co.. Inc. 69-83 E. First St. ................ AA
NY: N YORK -
Mobil Oil Corp.. North American Div. 160 E. 42nd
AAAA

St.
Union Carbide Corp. Chemicals 8 Plastics 270 Park
AAAA

Ave..
OHIO: CLEVELAND
Brooks Technology Co. 3308 E. 87th St. ............ AAAA
OHIO: HUDSON - . -
Flood Co. Barlow Rd. W. (for Wood) .................................. X
OHIO: TOLEDO
Jennison-Wright Corp. The PO. Box 891 ............ AAAA
PA: BEAVER . .
Beaver Alkali Products Davidson Bldg. 9.0. Box’
4 . . ‘ ' AAAA
PA: ERIE ‘ . '
;. ringed Oil MI . Co. 2nd 8 Cascade Stan..." .............. AAA
:r’u

A: LENSHA .
. . ag'ChemiZal Company Hiram Bldg. ................... '... AAAA
. , .' HILAD LPHIA ‘
A)!“ i ' I"
t: ‘N ‘2 IC 1938 Nov") Isl rid AAAA
' . . em a o.) a ...... ......
' ' 1113§Jgusroﬁr " ’ ., .
‘ xx .'.’.., .7 I Can 14.8. Dept DH (187 Gait Bldg.
160" . -r m. ._ a.

 

 

 

................. A

 

 

AAAA

 

 

 

. AAA

AA

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

I

 

~I' . ,

' n IICom an 1808 walnut St. .‘.......... ........... AAAA

It 32191 afieli w .
19

wt; -' 4:9 tilt

THOMAS REGISTER 1975

Flabing Chemical Co. 618 S. 2nd .................................. AA
Standard Tar Products Co. 2468 W. Cornell ................ A

org: WATER WHITE. BURNING.

PA: BUTLER -
Penreco. A Pennzoll Division.1o4 8. Main St. AAAA

OILS: WAVE

(see Oils: Hair)

OILS: WAY
(see Oils: Peraﬂine)

OILS: WETTING OUT

NJ: MORRIS TO WN

Nogco Chemical Div. Diamond Shamrock Chemical
0. 360 Mt. Kemble Ave .. AA

 

 

.. AAAA
- ' — 4.2 a; ‘..L' ‘au'u "er

OILS: WHALE. SPERM. ETC.

FLA: JACKSONVILLE
Union Camp Corp.. Chemical Div. PO. Box 8170
(Substitute Spermoil). AAAA
ILL: CHICAGO

Traait. Arthur C.. Corp. 8602 S. Harlem Ave. (Sperm
Substitutes) . AAA

MASS: EVERETT
Wood. W. A.. Co. (Sperm) .
MASS: FA IRHA VE N

 

 

 

 

 

Nye. William F., Inc. Howland at River ....................... AA-

MASS: SALEM
Salem Oil 8 Grease Co. 80 Grove ...................... ‘ .......... AAA
NJ: MORRISTOWN
Nogco Chemical Div. Diamond Shamrock Chemical
0. 360 Mt. Kemble Ave. (Sperm.
Sulphonated) ....... . . . AAAK
OHIO: CLEVELAND
Smith. Werner 0.. Inc. 1730 Train Ave. (Sperm
Filtered) ‘ ‘ . ....... x
PA: BRISTOL
Ma co Oil 8 Chemical Co.. Inc. Beaver 8 Canal
ts. . ,. ......
PA: PHILADELPHIA

Leatex Chemical Co. 2722 N. Hancock
(Sulphonated). .. X

Neattoot Oil Refineries Corp. E. Ontario 6 Bath

Stevenson Bro. 6 0.. Inc. 1039 W. Vanango St........ A

OILS: WHITE. MEDICINAL

CAL: SAN FRANCISCO
Standard Oil Co. oi California, Western Operations.
Inc. 226 Bush ............................................................ AAAA
ILL: CHICAGO
Amoco Oil Co. 200 E. Randolph Dr.............. ..-.
KAN: OLA THE
Chemical Commodities, Inc. 300-320 8. Blake 91..
PO. Box 129 (Mineral) . . .
MD: BALTIMORE
Rotsiinson, Wm. C., 9 Son Co. Dock 6 Caroline
ts.

 

 

 

AAAA

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

AAAA

MD: RIVERDALE
Mittlin McCambridge Co. (Mineral)...................
MASS SALEM
Howe 8r French Div. Colonial Rd. (U. S. P 8
Technical) ... .. ..
NY. BROOKLYN

MAROOLIB, A.. 8: SONS CORP. 160406 Atlantic Ave.
(Industrial 0 Automotive Oils. Lubricants. Ore-sea.
Aerosols) (212-487-7885) AA

NY: COLLEGE POINT

Ore-Lube Corporation 128th St. 8 18111 Ava. AAAA
NY: MOUNT VERNON

Kellogg. E. Huh Co . Inc. 69-83 E. First St ................. AA
NY: ROCHESTER

Davis-Howland Oil Corp. 200 Anderson Ave ................ A
OHIO: CLEVELAND

Fleet-Wing Corp. 8929 W. 130 St. ............................ AAA
PA.’ ASTON

........... AAA

 

McGee Industries, Inc. 9 Crozarvilla Rd. (With

Molybdenum Disulllde) ..
PA' BUTLER

PENRECO. A PENNZOIL DIVISION 104 8. Main St.
(411—281-2781) AA
(For sales offices see Volume 7)

 

WHITE MINERALS OILS

Unsurpassed purity,
stability. and uniformity
- Regular 8: Special Grades
meet all F & DA requirements

p911! 9C0

a Pu‘ﬁo‘, DIVISIUN ,
104 South Main Street. Butler. PA 16001
Branches and 8am OIIices in Principal Cities

TEX: anus:
"Rldlan Mingo. 4924 Reading...
TEX: DICKINSON .
MARATHON 6/911ch (:0 IO. breve C (Miners
W Ii N-N (Hm-1163“

,

.7 We

OILS: WHITE. MINERAL, ’ '

A“ g-‘
i

 

(see Oils: White. Medicinal)

1€~V

morco company

White mineral oils. Sodium
petroleum sulionates. 9‘
- P. 0. Drawer C .
Dickinson, Texas 77539

A Subsidiary oi Marathon Manufacturlr
Company, Heuston. Texas

...I

 

 

AA

OILS: WHITE. TECHNICAL
CAL: LOS ANGELES - ‘
Witco Chemical Corp, Golden Bear Oil 180
the Stars..-

CAL: SAN meager."

Standard Oil Co. oi California. Western Ops
Inc. 226 Bush
NJ; HACKENSACK
Castrol Oils inc. Continental Plaza ..
NY: BROOKL YN
MARGOLIS. A.. D'BONS CORP. 1608-08 Atl
(Industrhl 8- Automotive Olie. Lubricants.
Aerosols 212487-7886)...“ '
NY: COLLE POINT
Ore-Lube Corporation 128th St. 6 18th Ave
NY: MOUNT VERNON
Kello . E. H., & Co.. Inc. 69-83 E. First St...
NY: Nb YORK
Mosbii Oil Corp. North American Div, 160 E

PA: BUTLER
Penreco, A Pennzoil Division 104 S. Main 6
PA. CORNWELLS HEIGHTS ' ;
Tiona Petroleum Co. 2467 State Rd. ........ -...
PA: PHILADELPHIA ‘
Atlantic Richliaid Co: 280 S. Broad ..............
Zurn, O F.. Company 2700 N. Broad St. .......
TEX' DICKINSON .
MARATHON MORCO CO. P.O. Drawer (3 (“I

16341 ,
OILS: WINTERGREEN

(for Synthetic Wintergreen Oil. see M

Solicylete)
MICH: MIDLAND '_r ,

Dow Chemical Co. Abbode. (Synthetic) _
MO. ST. LOUIS a.

Monsanto Company BOUfN. Lindbergh 8le

W
‘l

on»... ... ..........,.. .

 

 

\

H. 6.. Essential Oil Co. 100 Lear '

NY: NEW YORK -( ;
Chermalloy Americsfi Corporation 180 Fit
ve.... m.
Floresynth Inc. 410 E. 82nd St....:....' .............
Mosnsanto Flavor/Essence. Inc. 429Was‘hi

 

Penlck. S. 8. 8i Co. 100 Church St.................
TEX: TEXARKANA ' .
Humco Lab. Inc. PO Box 2660 (Artificial E
Leaf) .
OILS: WOOD
CAL: SANTA MONICA
Watco-Dannis Corp. 1768 22nd (Finishes)
IL L.‘ CHICAGO
Deigger. A.. 6 Co. 181 W. Kinzie St. ............
NEB: MAHA
Myers, Ed., Co., Inc. 3022 POCIIIC ..........,....
NY: NEIV YORK
Crowley Tar Products Co., Inc 283 Madisi
(Also Hardwood) ...................................... . .....

OILS: WOOD PRESERVING

(see also Oils: Creosote: Preeervative
CAL: SAN FRA NCISCO
Standard Oil Co. at California. Western 0;
Inc. 226 Bush. . .............................................
IND: INDIANAPOLIS
Reilly Tar 8: Chemical Corp. 1820 Merche

Buildin ............. . ...........................................
IOWA: BURLINGTON
Riley Bros, Inc. 858 Washington .... ............
LA: NEW ORLEANS
American Creosote Works. inc. PO. Box 4i
MASS: BHOCK TON
Magichemical Co.. Inc
MO T. LOUIS
Ko pers Co.. Inc., Wood Treating Chemice
137 Southwest Ave......‘.....
NJ: R/DGEF/ELD
Everseai Mfg. Co.. Inc 477 Broad Ave........
NY: NEW YORK
Crowley Tar Products Co.. Inc. 283 Madis
Standard AWPA 8i AREA Grades) ...........
Mobil Oil Corp.. North American Div. 160

..

1'23 Crescent St....

St ......................................................................
Unrn Carbide Corp. Chemicals 0 Plastic:
ve. ......................................................... . ...........
Woolsey Marine industries, Inc. 201 E. 4?
NY: YONKERS
Naval Stores Corp. of New York Box 41. C

Sta.

OHIO: HUDSON

Flood Co. Barlow Rd. W. (Air Drying)..........
OHIO: TOL EOO

Jennison-Wright Corp. The PO. Box 891
PA: PHILADELPHIA

Sun Oil Company 1808 Walnut St.
PA: PITTSBURGH

Koppers Company, Inc. 1350 Koppers Bio
TEX: DALLAS

American Petroiina. Inc. PO. Box 2169...
WIS: MIL l’VA UKEE

Caébolineurn Wood Preserving Co. 8887 I

Standard Ter Products Co. 2468 W. Corm
OILS: WOOL &’WORSTED

(see also Oils: Textile. Softenpr. etc.)
DEL: WILMINGTON

ICI America Inc. Concord Pike 8 New Muri

(Securing)

MD: BALTIMORE

 

"'-. tins

 

AA ',..nooinwn-' mkiSonCojeﬂUCaret

. M.“




U. 8. APPEAL

WORLD
WILDLIFE 4......
FUND TELEX: £4565 -

February 18, 1976

Mrs. Christine Stevens
1686 34th Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20007

Dear Chris:

Thank you for your letter of February 10 enclosing
Miss Vick's tragic letter from.Mexico concerning her
experiences with the pet trade in that country. I am at
a loss as to what action can be encouraged from this end

with the Mexican authorities. It certainly is a deplorable
situation.

The other item you raise is the dolphin/tuna relationship,
and, to the best of my knowledge, we have not received any
grant requests concerning this matter. I personally would
be pleased to see such requests come in, but just where they
would rate as a priority remains to be seen. If you can

generate such requests we would be very pleased to receive
them.

Best regards,q
.1; /

, *7
Godfrey A. Roéhefeller
Executive Director

100% RECYCLED PAPER

 




EXCERPTS FROM HEARINGS ON PAINFUL TRAPPING DEVICES, November 17, 18, 1975

Compiled by the Society for Animal Protective Legislation
P. 0. Box 3719
washington, D.C. 20007

Pain and Terror

David 3, Bromwell, D,V,M,, lllinoig Department of Agriculture:
Historically, the use of the leg-hold trap has been emp oyed to
catch wild animals. As a citizen, veterinarian, and one deeply
interested in humane care for our animal pOpulation, both domestic
and wild, I abhor such disregard for animal life. This method
produces to the animal's body: extreme pain, shock, trauma to the
tissues, and at best, slow death. Occasionally the animal will, if
physically able, chew the part so encumbered causing further trauma

with the intent to achieve a pitiful type of freedom." (p.66)

‘Michael H, Milts, D,V,M,: "Terror: While often overlooked as a
biological reality, terror is real. Foxes have chewed off their ’
limbs in a desperate attempt to escape. The shock resulting from
the pain and loss of blood fre uently results in this method of
escape ending in death." (p.63)

gosgﬁessman Glenn Anderson, author of H.R. 66, and Robert Lapez,

Mr. Anderson: "Now another statement was made that trappers would

go around every 4 days and check the traps because of the long

dooamile trap line; and that most of the animals would already be
as .

Dr. Lopez: "Right."

Mr. Anderson: Why would they be dead?"

Dr. Lopez: "...stated temperatures at 40 below, this animal is

running around in shock, he is losing blood and in intense pain and
the blood pressure draps, and he is very vulnerable to the cold so

he would die probably within 24 hours, depending on the cold."

Mr. Anderson: "Then the animal would freeze to death and would die
during these 24 hours. WOuld not the animal be in pain prior to

death?"

Dr. Lopez: "Violent pain and finally passing out, right."

Mr. Anderson: "These are the things that someone with your back-
ground, having been a trapper as well as a veterinarian, can make a
great contribution on."

Dr. Lapez: "Yes, and another thing, the bottom of the human arm is
like the bottom of an animals limb....You can look at your hand and
everything comes up, the arteries are on top, the nerves are all on
top, right on top, and these are badly damaged."

Mr. Anderson: "80, as a result, the animal dies of shock?"

Dr. Lopez: "Right."

Mr. Anderson: Intense pain all the time."

Dr. Lopez: "Intense pain all the time." (pp, 122-123)

 




"Trash" Animals

Dick Randall, ex—trapper for Fish and Wildlife Service, now’wyoming‘

F eld Re re entative. Defenders of Wildlife: The leghold trap is
inherently non-selective.‘ It is probably the most cruel device

ever invented by man, and is a direct cause of inexcusable destruction
and waste of our wildlife. My trapping records show that for each
target animal I trapped, about two unwanted individuals were caught.
Because of trap injuries, these non-target species usually had to

be destroyed. (p.273)

 

 

 

Frank Conibear, inventor of the Conibear trap: The number of
unwanted, useless wildlife caught is usually several times the
number of wanted fur-bearers. (p.311)

Sierra Club, North Star chapter: Surveys indicate that out of
every four animals trapped, only one is of actual value for its
fur. A recent Minnesota survey reinforces these tragic figures
concerning the unintentional catch of non-target animals. (p.337)

The Chairman questioning George Rost, Regional Supervisor, Division
of Wildlife Seryices. U.S. Department of the Interior, on capture

of non-target animals:

Mr. Leggett: WOuld there be a substantial number you release alive?
Mr. Rost: Yes.

Hr. Leggett: Are you able to make any estimate at this point?

Mr. Rost: Oh, I would say perha s 25 to 30 percent of those taken
are in good enough condition to e released. Now, if the leg is
twisted to the point we feel that the animal would not survive, it
is dispatched at the site....Some animals fi ht harder than others,
and do more damage faster than others. (p.§30)

 




Children and Domestic Animals

Dr. Frederick W. Stuewer. Senior Wildlife Executive. Wildlife
Division, State of Michigan: The large conibear has been outlawed
in Michigan, because of danger to pets and dogs and to children.
We know some hunters' dogs are caught, particularly in the hunting
season in traps of those out working toward collecting the coyote
bounty. (p.249)

Yalegie Maxwell, New Jersey Branch, Humane Society of the United

States: Your Children, Your Pets, Your Wildlife Are Caught - A Few
Cases:

Westwood - Young girl's ankle broken when she stepped on a
camouflaged trap

New Milford - Little girl, reaching into tall grass to remove
an obstruction in the path of her doll buggy, set off a trap that
snapped shut on her hand.

Closter - Young boy's foot caught in trap while he was walking
near a creek.

Oradell - Dog caught in trap as mistress was walking him. She
accidentally sprung a second trap, which just missed catching her

oot.

Bound Brook - Veterinarian found eight traps set along a path
frequented by children.

Teaneck - Three traps found in people's yards. Two gripped
torn-off cat's paws, one gripped a chewed-off raccoon paw.

anberton - German shepherd dragged trap two weeks before
rescue. Paw smashed and gangrenous.

Scotch Plains - Cat caught in trap, dragged it until rescued.
Lower half of leg amputated.

Wayne - Pet collie caught in trap, terrified and in such pain
a tranquilizer gun had to be used before the animal could be approached
to remove the trap.

River Vale - Fox terrier killed when a steel trap snapped shut
on its face.

Cliffwood Beach - Pet dog which escaped from owner's yard was
found eight days later with steel-toothed trap on foot. Dog's teeth
worn down from.chewing at trap. Foot amputated because of gangrene.

Paramus - Pet cat missing one week, returned dragging trap, in
starved condition. Paw hanging, almost severed, leg gangrenous.

New Milford - Pet cat missing two weeks, found with head in
trap. Large holes on both sides of mouth, almost a skeleton.
Green Brook - Cat in trap five days. Both front legs
mangled and ulcerated from paws to elbows. Euthanized by veterinarian.
Bridgewater - Cat in trap three days. Leg amputated.
Mahwah - Raccoon with one front paw already missing from former
trap injury observed caught in trap by remaining front paw.
River Edge - Dead fox left in trap; tail had been cut off by
trapper.
Hillsdale - Raccoon caught in trap and axed to death by boys.
Harrington Park - Duck found with both feetmissing from being
caught in traps.
Wayne - Great horned owl caught by leg, contracted tetanus and
gangrene; destroyed by veterinarian.
Glen Rock - Mother duck with 13 little ones, leg completely
severed. (p.135)

 

 

 




Robert Lopez, D,V.M.: In the past three decades I have treated
undreds of cases of dogs and cats that had been caught by the leg
in traps and have been brought to my hospital. I took the liberty
to bring the paw of a domestic cat that was just amputated by me in
my hospital a few days ago. May I pass that around. Other patients
'were treated without surgery. Many would never walk normally again
because of poorly healed compound fractures. All suffered intense
pain over a long period of time. When this paper was written I had
five cases of cats and two of dogs in my two hospitals, who have
been caught by the leg in steel traps. At least three of these will
need amputation. (PP.119-120)

Jim MOrrison, Executive Director, Georgia Wildlife Federation:
Any hunter that allows his dog to run on the property of another

man without permission is a shiftless, no good worthless skunk in
my opinion, and his dog deserves what they get and that is a very
poor excuse, very poor justification. (p.2 3)

Gerald F. Brancich, D.V.M.: ...regarding trapping injuries, I am
pleased to see action being taken to prevent these needless
injuries. We have gone through our files for the past a proximately
three years and have recorded the following injuries. They are re-

corded according to date, animal, area of occurrence, type of injury
and outcome. The majority of these animals were euthanized at the
owners' requests as a result of gangrene affecting the feet.

[Three of thirteen examples given follow]

5. 12/30/72 - Beagle, right front foot, swollen, cold, purplish

skin - one toe white. Recheck 1/3/73 less swollen - toe stil cool.
Recheck l/6/73 listless, unresponsive - had had convulsions, owner
had euthanized. Live in a wooded area, not reported that we know of.
Grand Rapids, Minn.’

9. 1/9/74 - Lab-mix, right front foot (trap on foot, fox trap)
swollen - oozing area, no feeling in toes. Recheck 1/21/74 still
swollen - sore, cool, not gangrenous. Recheck 1/28/74 swelling
down, some infection. Recheck 2/1/74 gangrenous, owner had euthanized.
‘ﬁive in rural area near woods. Don't believe reported. Coleraine,

nn.

12. 12/24/74 - Lab mix, had tongue in trap, % to % of tongue
amputated - possible damage to nerves and blood vessels. 12/30/74
(still in hospital) tongue healing slowly. Live in residential

are§;1)Gave one of report sheets to owner. Grand Rapids, Minn.
p.

 




How Trapped Animals Are Killed

 

Mrs. Graham %, Young, Director, Wildlife and Conservation New

ersey Branc , Humane Socigtv of the United States: Dr. Ashley
Montagu, one of the outstanding scientists and anthropologists of
our age, wrote the Branch with reference to leghold trapping by
young people, 'The personality of children cannot help but be
damaged by such activities, and rendered cruel and unfeeling not
only toward animals but also toward human beings.'..The New*Jersey
Branch has documented many cases in which peeple have witnessed
children attempting to kill trapped animals by exceedingly
primitive and gruesome means. A small sampling: axing a raccoon
to death, stoning a skunk to death, clubbing a raccoon with boards,
kicking a living trapped blue jay, removing an opossum from a trap
and hanging him from a tree to die. (p.32)

 

Daniel J. Kelly, Wildlife Researcher:..The needless cruelty

associated with steel-trapping was revealed in a much more shocking
manner several days later. Both front legs caught in traps, the
coyote, exhausted after four days of fighting the unyielding steel,
crouched against the tree stump, his piercing yellow eyes still
alertly focused on my every movement. Thoughts of mercifully

killing or releasing the animal were fleeting as an approaching

car brought a rush of reality. A man in his 60's emerged from the

car expressing surprise and resentment at my presence. Once an
understanding had been established, the trapper set about the

business of disposing of the trapped coyote. The trapper approached,
a five-foot green birch club in hand. The coyote struggled frantically
against the traps, pulling one leg loose and leaving the lifeless

paw in the trap. The trapper poked at the coyote. The animal

hissed and snapped at the club. Then, as the trapper slowly swished
the club back and forth, the coyote became unusually calm. Mesmerized
by the steady motion, he crouched motionless, his yellow eyes
dutifully following the swishing club.

Suddenly the club smashed across the coyote's nose and slammed
him to the ground. But the bIOW'WaS not delivered with precision.
Almost instantly he was in a semi-crouch; blood spurting from the
nose, eyes dazed. Again the club fell. The trapper, in one
practiced motion, grabbed the stunned coyote by the hind legs,
stretching the animal full length while planting his foot heavily
on its neck. The other foot delivered a series of thumping blows
to the coyote's chest expelling hollow gasps of air. Releasing
the hind egs, the trapper rested one foot on the coyote's neck,
the other on the chest. The coyote's eyes bulged, the mouth gaped,
the tongue hung listlessly along the blood-stained jaw. Periodically
stomping near the heart, the trapper maintained this position for 14

 




minutes. He indicated this was necessary to ensure that the '
animal was dead - 'Once had one leap up and take a bite at me.
There was no emotion involved, only a degree of disgust when the
bIOW’fell short or a brief expression of satisfaction when the blow
was effective; the coyote was avarmint and was treated as such.
While focusing the camera, I thought how ridiculous it was for a
ZOO-pound man to be stomping on an lB-pound coyote as if his vegy
existence depended on the animal's elimination. The coyote, ha

he been given the opportunity, would not even have sought revenge.
He would only have tried to escape.

Satisfied the co ote was dead, the trapper added several final
stomps before releasing the remaining trap. Reluctantly, I accegted
his offer to accompany him down the road. The carcass was dumpe
into the trunk along with the wide-eyed carcass of another. Thirty
more sets yielded another coyote, a badger, a raccoon and two magp es.
These coyotes were trapped under the auspices of recreational

trapping.’ (pp.57-58

Congressmanggon Young_of Alaska, a member of the Subcommittee,
requested the opportunity to testify. Following is part of a
colloquy between him and the Chairman:

Mk; Leggett: You come back to these 500 traps, are the animals
always dead?

Mr. Young: Not always, but most of the time they are, and I see
those traps every 4 days. .

Mr. Leggett: And when they are not dead, what do you do, shoot them?
Mr. Young: No, Mr. Chairman, you do not puncture the fur at any
time, it decreases the value of the fur. I use a snare on the lynx,
especially if the foot is not caught properly in the trap. You put
it over their head and you pull back, and the foot comes out of the
trap, and all of a sudden you have a 35 or 40-pound mammal fighting
mad next to you. You pray you can hold on to his neck so he can
strangle very rapidly, in 6 or 7 seconds. Mr. Chairman, do you
still want me to keep this trap on my hand?

Mr. Leggett: No, you can take it off now; What is this trapping
for, recreation?

‘Mr. Young: Trapping for recreation is a method by which many
people do enjoy the outdoors. (p.83)

 




Currently Available Pain Reducing Methods

Mr. Lynn A. Greenwalt, Director, 0.8. Fish and Wildlife Service,
.8. Department of thglnterior; Agggmpagigd by Georg§_Rost,

Re ional Su ervisor Division of Wildlife Services:

Mr. GreenwaEt: We have done some research on the ways to make

existing trap equi eat more humane. Frequently we have been

fairly successful n employing what we term tranquilizer tabs

which is used with the trap in such a way that the animal taken

bh the device consumes the tranquilizer and thus does not fight

t e trap.

Mr. Oberstar: Do you have any of those that the committee could

see, if we wanted to, not right away?

Mr. Greenwalt: Yes.

Mr. Rost: we are using this in the wolf program in southeast

Texas. It does very little damage because the animal does not

fight the trap.

Mr. Greenwalt: The red wolf is an endangered species that we

are attempting to restore.

Mr. Oberstar: WOuld that be effective on beaver?

Mr. Greenwalt: I think not. There are other kinds of tra s that

can be employed with beavers for live capture. The so-cal ed

suitcase trap, which is widely used in the capture and transplant-

ing of beavers, effects a safe containment without injury to the
beaver. (p.226)

 

Mr. Anderson: You mentioned that you use offset traps. Does the
Department of Interior use any padding around the jaws of the trap?
Mr. Rost: Only when we are trying to take some animal and we do
not want any type oi damage to the foot. This would be an animal
that is normally not a target animal. For example, we use the
padded trap for prairie dogs, when a zoo needs animals for its
population or when they want to start a colony. We do pad the jaw
under such circumstances. (PP.220-221)

Mr. Rost: The jaws of the offset trap do not come together, when
it is closed, and therefore do not break the bone in the leg of the
caught animal. When the offset jaw trap takes an animal, the jaws
of the trap do not completely come together, thus decreasing the
chances of breaking the bone in the animal's leg. The animal does
not fight the trap as much, and the possibility of it twisting its
foot off is reduced. (p.221)

2; Robert Henderson, Extension Specialist, Wildlife Damage_CQntrol,
Kansas State University: In 1965, Donald S. Balser wrote a paper
‘iﬁ the Journal of Wildlife Management, Vol.29, No.3, pp.438-442,
entitled, 'TranﬁﬁiIIzer Tabs For Capturing Wild Carnivores.‘ He
found that by using a tranquilizer tab on the jaw of a steel, leg-
hold trap that he could prevent injury, suffering and the possibility
of escape. The tab consists of a cloth tablet wired to the trap jaw
and containing the tranquilizer.

 

 




Upon capture the animals usually chew the tab and ingest the
drug. The drug takes effect in approximately 10-30 minutes, and
struggling by the trapped animal is reduced. The effects usually
last 24-4 hours, de ending on the amount of tranquilizer consumed.
This device was developed primarily for capturin animals unharmed

for laboratory experiments, but it has additiona applications in
capturing animals for marking, in providing easy release of dogs
or other pets, and in making steel trapping more humane. In some
cases we use tranquilizer tabs in Kansas. I hope that in the
future these tabs will gain more widespread use. (p.258)

 




Endangered Species

Dick Randall, wyoming Field Representative, Defenders of Wildlife:
' ccas ona y, n ormat on wi sur ace that throws some light on
the magnitude of the destruction wrought by leghold traps. Thomas
J. Harper, a U.S. game management agent, reported at a National
Wildlife Federation meeting that about 2,500 eagles had been un-
intentionally trapped in northeastern Nevada during the winter of
1972-73. He estimated that 630 of the birds had perished. Harper
said, 'The traps break the eagles' legs and sometimes sever one or
two toes. Many of the birds die of exposure because traps are
checked only every ten days.’ Harper said there was no way to
estimate indirect losses from maimed birds that wrenched free from
the traps. Without question, eagles that escaped with damaged
feet or talons would be unable to capture prey normally, and were
condemned to a slow, inexorable death. In addition, Harper
reported that between 700 and 1,000 hawks, owls, and other birds
of prey had been trapped. He estimated that 80 percent of them
had died. (p.273)

 

R. Max Peterson, Deputy Chief for Pro rams and Le islation Forest
Service, Department of Agriculture: The onl way an endangered

species wou d be invo ve in trapping would e accidental. (p.75)

Mr. Anderson: According to the U.S. Department of the Interior's
status report on wildcats of the world, 1970, the U.S. fur industry
imported 8,456 leopard skins, 35,000 jaguar pelts, 350,000 ocelots,
32,000 cheetah skins, they were also imported which represents 1
times the number of cheetahs estimated by the report in all parts of
Africa. All these cats were added to the 0.8. endangered species
list so the imported fur, they are now banned, but is it not obvious
the demand created by the 0.8. market for these products, provided
a tremendous economic incentive for the slaughter of these cats, and
thus help to bring them to the verge of extinction, and does not

the U.S. industry share much of the responsibility for this tra edy.
Mr. Poser President of the American Fur Merchants' Association :
Mr. n erson, t t s rea y, I mean no srespect, t an emotional

statement.

Mr. Anderson: It is not emotional. I am pointing to facts.

Mr. Poser: The numbers of skins taken were obviously in response
to the market demand. (p.295)

 




One Percent Professional

Sierra Einb; North Star Chapter: In 1973, 14,118 trapping licenses
‘were sold in Minnesota. In addition, youngsters under age 16 need
no license to tra , except for beaver and otter. The average
income per genera trapping license was $364.00 (p.339)

_§gnator Charles‘McO. Mathias: The U.S. Deparmment of Commerce
estimates that there are approximatelY 2,000,000 trappers in this
country of whmm onl one percent are professionals', i.e., persons

for whom the sale 0 ‘BETts comprises a significant portion of their
income. (p.25)

 




SOCIETY FOR ANIMAL PROTECTIVE LEGISLATION
P. O. Box 3719
Georgetown Station
Washington, D. C. 20007

LL/28/76

To Humanitarians:

Good news! President Ford signed S. 1941 on
April 23rd. The antiadog-fighting and cook-
fighting provisions of the new law go into
effect 90 days from the date of the President's
approval. Regulations on standards for trans-
portation of animals must be completed by the
Department of Agriculture by the end of the year.

Thanks for all you did to help this major
federal animal protective law be enacted. You
may wish to express your appreciation to the
authors of the bills, Congressman Thomas Foley
and Senator Lowell Weicker, for their long,
devoted efforts on behalf of the legislation,
and to the President for signing the bill

into law.

We will need to work to get adequate funding

for enforcement of the law, and we'll keep you
informed on this.

Sincerely,

ﬂak: In;

Christine Stevens,
Secretary

 




SOCIETY FOR ANIMAL PROTECTIVE LEGISLATION
P. O. Box 3719
Georgetown Station
Washington, D. C. 20007

May 12, 1976

@<%‘“ Mr
"Painf l Tragping Devices," 347 pages of testimony given
7

November 17 and l 1975, before the Subcommittee on Fisheries,
Wildlife Conservation and the Environment of the Merchant Marine
and Fisheries Committee has just been published.

To assist you and your staff in extracting the most essential
information from these hearings on a subject never before considered
by the Congress, I attach some excerpts with their page numbers for
ready reference collected under the headings of Pain and Terror,
"Trash" Animals (those of no cash value to the trappefTT'CﬁITEEen

.egﬁ UomesEIc Knimals (children hurt, dogs and cats maimed for life
or euthanized when gangrene has spread too far to save them), How
Tra ed Animals Are Killed (strangled, beaten, stamped to deatﬁTEo
avogg puEEing a BETleE Hole in the pelt), Currently Available Pain
Reducin Methods (which are only rarely used), Endangered Species
IincIua§ng Hundreds of the symbol of our country, the endangere
Bald Eagle caught in traps set for bobcats), and, finally, One
Percent Professional, statistics showing that 99% of this aEETvity
wﬁicﬁ causes such appalling suffering and destruction is carried on
by so-called "recreational trappers" and children. Average income
per general trapping license in Minnesota is $364 a year.

 

We urge you to call for a strong, effective law to restrict to
the minimum the use of painful trapping devices.

Sincerely,

(7am; m

Christine Stevens
Secretary

Enclosures

 




,347/ BEHAVIOR STZDY TO PREVENT (NFA);9he embankments of many Austrian high~
‘ WILDLIFE ACCIDENTS ON ROADS ways today show on both sides of the road
a new installation: game—warning reflectors

which are designed to divertbeams from car headlamps into the adjoining
countryside, The basic idea for the installation of the reflectors has
been derived from studies of the Institute of Comparative Behavior Resemch
in the Austrian Academy of Sciences, which concentrated on the effect on
animals of "eyes” and "eye dummies”. It was established in these studies
most animals are deterred by the sight of ”eyes" as they believe that they
are looked upon and, consequently, feel threatened. On the other hand it
turned out that the color ”red” has an alarming effect as it is actually
the most widely used ”signal color" among animals. It was therefore con~
cluded that the combined presentation of both effects m the threatening
eye~effect'and the alarming signal-effect ~—"by the addition of two impul~ww
ses should cause game to shrink back from any approach immediately, thus
stOpping it on the roadside and preventing it from crossing the highway
in front of traveling cars.

An optical concern made practical use of these findings and constructdi
red reflectors which, installed on wooden poles on both sides of highways,
divert incident headlamp light into the adjoining countryside and thus
cause the impression of flashingmup red eyesr As always several reflectns
are exposed to headlamp lightnbeams at the same time, a traveling car at
night will make a series of such "eyes” flash up simultaneously, so that
the series of warning eyes will have practically the effect of a "barrage”
fence” Even the first experimental installation of red~eye reflectors cone
firmed the usefulness of the device and proved the correctness of the In—
stitute's conclusions, On the testwroad sections surveyed it was possible
immediately to attains an average reduction of nightly wildlife accidents
by about 80 per cento Similar successes were meanwhile registered on all
Austrian highways equipped with gamenwarning reflector systems. In view
of the low cost of the device and its installation it is expected that
more and more roads in Austria-will be made ”safe” in future, and the mom
del of the Austrian roads may in due course also influence practiceeﬂnwn>,

P.b.b. — Verlagspostamt Wien lOlO ~ Erscheinungsort Wien
Second—class postage paid at mailing post office Vienna lOlO
Published in Vienna

an \be

\ I j ’ ‘
/—-r ’ 7"le (A
l 74% I.

r' (’~n~.

"\

“$6? for $70 I'en ﬁfnr‘t?

RECEIVEDNOVZ 0 1974

liar: Knight

 

 

 




a - \ .7.» .A ._ MN“- .4”- ..
. 4’. ‘§‘- A A ‘ a .- .‘ ‘l "f.

“as. tasa‘ h'.‘ as r ‘

'3 ' -‘. r , .pa ml... _ ._ ' 1:". A.

r—wrwug-w—rs “Wu-wwwvvvrﬁ—v—p «w‘nwﬂggw. "vi-mam .—-v~w
‘ . V V \ . . .
‘ 37.15

STOP THE DOLPHIN KILLERS

In ancient Greece it was a sin to kill a dolphin. When-the

dolphins helped the fishermen to catch fish, they were rewarded,

not only with fish, but, according to Pliny, with bread soaked in
wine. Only the barbarians killed dolphins in those days.‘

But in our own times, civilization seems to have slipped back-
ward with a vengeance. NOt even the most ferocious barbarian could
have dreamt of rounding up and killing hundreds of thousands of
dolphins as do our own American tuna boat captains in their search
for yellowfin tuna. Although these captains have no wish to kill
dolphins, mechanization has taken cOmmand to such an extent in
the industry's fierce commercial competition, that the dolphins
are maimed, crushed, and drowned in the process.

Sighting a school of dolphins, the tuna seiner puts out noisy

motor boats to round them up, knowing that where the mammals surface

a largeschool_of tuna may be swimming underneath. No scientist
has been able to explain the phenomenon of fish follcwing mammals.
The fishermen simply take adVantage of the mystery without under-
standing it. -They surround both dolphins and tuna with a monstrous
net half a mile long then pull it Shut like a purse. To release
dolphins the captain "backs down" drapping the cork line at the end
of the net. Rescuers in.a small boat help the dolphins out of the
net - at least thatis what is supposed to happen if g0vernment
regulations under the Marine Mammal Protection Act are followed.
But there has been little incentive to abide by the law, for since

it was passed in 1972 not one single prosecution-has been laid

70-; 1* mm

mam :‘EﬁémgéﬁT ’v-.. ~‘ P-

has; mmxzswgz‘

.; lim- 2.13".“

 




against the tuna industry by the National Marine Fisheries Service!
NMFS is an arm of the Department of Commerce.

Government observers have recorded massive violations, but
violators are never brought to justice. For example, an estimated
38% of all dolphin deaths in 197A were attributed to failure by
many captains to provide two rescuers at the cork line to help the
mammals out of the net. Thousands of gentle, playful, beautiful
dolphins died because the very men whose livelihood depends-upon
their help in locating tuna, were too penurious to make an effort
to save them —~ and this despite the fact that the captains'
behavior constituted criminal violation of a federal law.

Defenders of Wildlife has joined with other groups in Suing
the National Marine Fisheries Service for its failure to protect
the dOlphins as required by law. We have pressed strongly at
hearing after hearing for decent'enforcement of the Marine Mammal
Protection Act. When proposed regulations were promulgated in
September of 1975 which would have placed a government observer on
every tuna toat_and put a ceiling on the number of dolphins that
could be killed, we had hote that the Department of Commerce was
at last moVing toward action to control the tuna industry. The
industry evidently thought so too and deployed a lobbying force in
lCongress~and the Administration that led to collapse of the proposal
and substitution of regulations merely threatening to set a limit

on the dolphin deaths if industry failed to reduce them by 30% in

the first four months of the 1976 fishing season. A mere 10% of

 




the purse seiners will carry government observers.

Strangest of all, NMFS Director Robert Schoning told environ-
mental and humane groups that if a quota is set on dolphin kills
in May, all the government observers will be removed from the purse
seiners for fear their lives would be in jeopardy. Thus does a
whispering campaign by what appears to be a kind of marine mafia
affect the decisions of the U.S. Government in enforcing federal law.

The big canning companies, H.J. Heinz, Van Camp Sea Foods,
Star—Kist Foods, Del Monte, Bumblebee Seafoods, Ralston Purina
(Chicken of the Sea) show equally little interest in federal law
,governing the fate of the dolphins. Three enormous new purse
seiners have juSt been launched by Van Camp's at some $5,000,000
apiece. The bigger the boats the more dolphins they kill. Even

the tuna are giving out under this extreme pressure, and as the

competition heightens and foreign nations buy cast—off American

purse seiners)the dolphins are suffering not only the terror of

the chase and capture, the pain as flippers and beaks are caught

. and sometimes torn off in the nets, the coming of their mos t hated

enemies, the sharks, attracted by blood in the water, the parting

of infants from their distressed mothers, the crushing of dolphins

dragged alive through the power equipment that hauls in the gigantic
they undergo all these horrors in such numbers that the

leading scientific expert-in the field, Dr. Kenneth Norris, fears

for the Very survival of some dolphin species if the carnage

continues.

 




It appears that the American public will have to use rude

justice to stop the cruel decimation of man's faithful friends,
the dolphins. A well-organized boycott of tuna fish seems to be
the only means left to bring a greedy, thoughtless industry to its
»senses, to end the mad expenditures of tens of millions of dollars
on dolphin-killing vessels and to force the industry to take
genuine care to save the dolphins. If our government cannot or
will not enforce federal law, Americans can withhold the profits
from the dolphin killers by rejecting tuna fish.

Through the ages, dolphins have rescued human~heings from
drowning, defended them from attack by sharks, given the r friend—
ship to us fellow mammals. Plutarch perceived that it Was the
dolphins "...on which alone among all others, Nature has bestowed
this gift which all the greatest philosophers seek: disinterested
friendship." Let us, for once, return such a priceless trust by
rising to the defense of the dolphins.

Christine Stevens

 




CELL CULTURES AND COMPUTERS CAN REDUCE NUMBERS OF TEST ANIMALS

Animal experimenters ani animal welfare workers rubbed
shoulders October 58nd and 23rd at the National Academy of Sciences

Symposium descriptively titled "Symposium on the Future of Animals,

Cells, Mouels and Systems in Research,-Development, Education and

Testing."

Good news was brought by Dr. Carol Newton of the UniVersity
of California School of Medicine, a physicist-biologist whose
creative understanding of computers has enabled her to develon
methods whereby reductions 0? up to h0% can be made in the use
test animals for «me purposes. In addition she suggests +he
possibility of obtaining the inf<rmatlon scdght hrr.gh the‘
traditional LDSO test in a new manner which wOuld not require
painful killing of half the test animals.

Dr. Sergey Federoff, of the University oi Saskatchewan, gave
ya comprehensive review of the p« sibilities of tisSue culture and
indicated that drastic reductions in the use of animals Could be
achieved in some areas. He empﬁasized the potential of plant
tissue culture which has not been fully relognlaed and which he
_believr9 will affect human life in a great variety of ways in the_
future. .

Addressing the eth us of animal experimentati n, Dr. Harry
Rowsell of the University of Guelph, spoke of human "responSlbility
for establishing the rights of animals; and the means to ensure
that those rights are understotd by all involved in animal use or
care. If man does not accept this responsibility he must be re~

garded as a par'site with all the shame that state implies."

 




On the second day, Dr. Stanley Kurtz, Director of the Department
of Toxicology of Parke~Davis in Ann Arbor, Michigan, presided over
the morning-seSsion at which Congressman Thomas Foley, Chairman of
the House Agriculture Committee and author of the Animal Welfare
Act made the opening address. Mr. Foley observed that the appropri«
ations for enforcement of the Act "and the animal welfare laws has
been, in my judgment, pitifully small." Responding to a question
about a pendinngoncurrent Resolution to encourage development
of new research methods alternative to the use of experimental
animals, hacharacterized.this form of action as eouivalent‘to
Christmas card from the Congress...saying TThis is how we feel,
this particular season of opinion.'" Dr. Kurtz made a practical
suggestion that Congress adopt a Concurrent Resolution to encourage'
the use of in vitro models over live models by the Feed and Drug
AdminiStraticn and Environmental Protection Agency where such
models are useful or predictive or capable of substituting for
live models. Chairman Foley indicated that srch an approach was
one that would find support in the Congress.

Dr. TaQQChiuh Hsu of the University cf Texas described the

,many uses of cell cultures as distinct from tissue cultures pointing

out that human cytogenetics, for eXample, could not have been

started without cell culture. He also discussed the use of th~day
old chick embryos for teratolngy, mutagenlcity and other tests.
Dr. Mary Dawson of the University of Strathclyde in Glasgow

listed seven applicatiins of tissue culture tn biomedical research,

 




drawing attention both to advantages and disadvantages as compared

with animals. For example, using human cells avoids errors due
to species difference.

Dr. John C. Petricciani of the Food and Drug Administration
pointed to the conversion from the use of primary cell cultures to
the use of cell lines, wherever possible, as a means of conserving
animals. He suggested that this well established method is not
being taken full advantage of by suppliers.

Discussing "Ecological Considerations in Animal Usage" Dr.
Lee Talbot, Senior Scientist at the President's Council on
Environmental Quality, said, "Capture for the biomedical trade
has been a major factor in the gross depletion of primates through
much of the world." Dr. Talbot noted "...high losses at all stages
in the capture, handling and shipping of primates have been well
documented." He also referred to the "exotics problem" stemming
from escape of primates from dealers who supply both pet trade
and laboratory trade. Squirrel monkeys are now established in
Florida.

Dr. George Harrell, Vice President emeritus for Medical-
Sciences, the Milton S. Hershey Medical Center, Pennsylvania
State University, was Chairman of the Organizing Committee for the
Symposium. He opened and closed the two-day session, and though
the broad series of questions he asked on the first morning were
not by any means fully answered, he laid a ground work by expressing

them for future efforts. Among his questions were these: "Are we

 




using too many animals? Could we do with fewer if experiments
were properly designed? Would a better analysis of data give us
more dependable data and reduce our dependence on large numbers

of animals?

techniques by which cells, tissues, and organs even can be cultured?"

 




Dolphins S

kt/ members of Congress to gain their support in the industry's successful

campaign to weaken proposed regulations.

Public protest against the cruelty and against the misrepresenta-
tion, which is designed to cover up the cruelty, may move a greedy
industry, deaf to the pleas of conservation and humane groups.’ We
suggest you express your views to the presidents of the following
major tuna canners. Van Camp has Just had three huge new purse
seiners, costing approximately five million dollars each, built

for it. The larger the vessel the more dolphins it kills.

Del Monte Corporation Bumble Bee Seafoods
21S Freemont Street 50 California Street

P-O- BOX 3575 San Francisco, California 9u111
San Francisco, California 94119 .

Van Camp Sea Food Company Star-Kist Foods, Inc.
P.O. Box 82568 ' 582 Tuna Street
San Diego, California 92138 Terminal Island, California 90731

 




PERSECUTION OF DOLPHINS BY THE TUNA INDUSTRY TO CONTINUE

Final regulations promulgated December 2nd by the Secretary
of Commerce reverse the strong proposed regulations published in
the Federal Register in September to reduce the numbers of dolphins%
killed by the tuna industry when it pursues the playful mammals and
encircles them in its gigantic purse seines in order to capture the
schools of tuna fish that swim beneath the dolphins.

The following excerpts from 1975 observer reports, copied by
representatives of the Environmental Defense Fund under the Freedom
of Information Act, exemplify the flouting of the modest regulations
in effect during the past fishing season to protect dolphins. The
regulations have yet to be enforced, although the Marine Mammal
Protection Act provides fa? penalties up to $20,000 fine and a year
in prison for wilful violations.

The regulations require tunaboat captains to "take every possible
step to minimize the incidental mortality and serious injury of
marine mammals." Yet observer reports include:

"The captain backed down in complete darkness." (60 killed)

”The usual panicking after dark coupled with poor visibility

and sharks contributed to large mortality.” (123 killed)

"Sun was almost down when set began. Lots of spinners. I was

surprised the set was even mane." (16 killed)

 

‘l

*Editor's Note: For all practical purposes, the , .is dolphin* and
"porpoise" are interchangeable. "Dolphin" is deriVed from the Greek.
The ancient Greeks admired and cooperated with the dolphins and
never killed them, but rather rewarded them for their assistance in
fishing. The word "porpoise" derives from the French "porc" (pig)
"poisson" (fish), a derogatory description by a nation that killed
these beautiful intelligent creatures for their oil. The AWI prefers
to use the word "dolphin," but in quotations the word "porpoise" will

" ' “ :h: f' . and the tuna industry.

0
)

be found s‘oce " “a « l'w”'=mi*§m

 




Dolphins

"The primary cause of mortality was definitely the extremely
strong current. The net collapsed and many porpoise were trapped
in canopies." (bu killed)

The regulations also specify that the purse seine should not
be set when the number of dolphins or tuna are likely to cause-
mortality. Yet obServers noted:

"Most of the porpoise not caught in the net are pad<ed tightly
together." (120 killed)

"Backdown after disaster. Too many porpoise - several deaths
before backdown, entanglement in 2" and u" webbing - mass entrapment -
just too many porpoise.' They were packed like sardines." (133 killedj

"Porpoise set more than I ever thought possible. About one
mile long by 2 mile - solid...Now that they are caught it looks
unreal. Where do they come from? They almost fill up the net
completely. Skipper says at least 150 tons of tuna...Wind is gusty
at 20 knots. It's getting rough and a frightening rip current. The
rip current is making this set a disaster." (738 killed)

The regulations require that "backdown and other release pro-
cedures be continued until all live animals have been released from

the net." But observers report:

"Skipper reluctant to prolong backdown to extradite those

unfortunate remaining spotted porpoise." (12 killed)

"There was no backdown; contents of net (9 porpoise) was
sacked and dumped out."

"When backdown was terminated I counted at least 50 porpoise
alive in net." (66 killed)

"Skipper ended backdown when there was still a good number in

net and cork tenders didn't reach them in time." (5 killed)

 




Dolphins

"During backdown 30 left in net. Captain said and
ended backdown. All died being sacked up except one went through
powerblock alive."

The regulations specify: "During and after the backing down
operation at leasttho men shall remain at the corkline in a boat
suitable to extricate live entangled porpoises, where possible, and
release them over the corkline." Yet observers report:

"I went out there believing that the fishermen would do any-
thing even risk their life, to save porpoise. This was a complete
fallacy on my boat. First of all, there was only one rescuer at
corks (I assumed that there would be 2 or more). Secondly, he not
only did not risk his life for porpoise, he did very little to help
them at all, and thirdly, I was surprised when I saw him using a
big gaff (which he used throughout the entire trip) to remove live
porpoise from the backdown area. Also, the net tender in this boat

stayed tied to the side of the backdown area during backdowns, not

going to help porpoise until backdown was almost completed."

"No fish in net, just porpoise. Tender watched porpoise die -

no effort was made to reach them until too late. If you are not
going to try to release porpoise, why have a man in the backdown
area?"

"One of the tagged ones was injured seriously; he thrashed
around on deck like he had internal injuries, bleeding out of the
mouth. Once released, he found it difficult to swim and disappeared.
I think he probably died." (15 killed)

"About 30% of these porpoise were babies, some of them aborted."

(MO killed)

 




Dolphins

"One newborn went through the powerblock and was dumped dead."

"Because net collapsed and malfunctions occurred, mass
mortality occurred. Large number of porpoise caught in folds of
net and suffocated. (183 killed)

"One problem occurred when the skipper had me removed from
deck during a set because I would not say that I would falsify my
tally sheets (number porpoise killed)." .

Reports like these stand in stark contrast to the promises
made by the tuna industry during hearings held prior to the enact-
ment of the Marine Mammal Protection Act. Back in 1971 the Congress
and the public was assured that the industry had the problem ”licked."
Captain Medina stated, "One point I am trying to make, the fishermen
will do anything to save the porpoise. We always have and always
will, but I think this new net has been the salvation for us and I
think we have the problem licked...in a year the whole fleet will
convert over and everybody will have the new net...we have the
problem licked. I say this is one thing the fishermen always try
to do is save the porpoise caught because without them we would not
be in business."

So much for the gratitude of the tuna industry. Hundreds of

thousands of dolphins have died in the purse seines or been mangled

in the powerblocks since the 1971 hearings, but the Tuna Research
Foundation has just created a new film intended to convince viewers
that crewmen constantly risk their lives jumping into shark—infested

waters to help the dolphins out of the net! The film was shown to

 




t
i

i
!

SEALING . . . NORTHWEST ATLANTIC

As most ISPA members are aware,
our organization has attended the
annual. seal hunt in the Gulf of St.
Lawrence since 1966. Representatives
from our London headquarters have
also sailed with the Norwegian sealing
ﬂeet to observe their activity in
international waters off the coast of
Labrador.

Faced with persistent reports of
cruelty, ISPA undertook an intensive
study of the entire industry. Investiga-
tions have dealt with:

1) Studies of the species involved

2) The area of the hunt relative to
biology and migration

3) The industry in terms of its eco-
nomic and social implications

4) The methods of killing

As a direct result of ISPA’s recom-

mendations, sealing regulations and
codes of conduct for hunters were
revised. This led. not only to the
abolition of many long standing abuses,
but to the training of sealers prior to the
hunt; placement of sufficient Fisheries
Ofﬁcers on the ice to enforce the laws,
as well as a ban on the use of aircraft
and large vessels during the hunt.
. While instrumental in eliminating the
obvious cruelties associated with sealing,
ISPA has always maintained, in any
hunting based industry. the likelihood
of suffering is ever present. Although
cessation of the hunt; in its present form
is an ideal solution. this point of view
has been consistently opposed by the
governments involved for social, polit-
ical and economic reasons.

~\_ The young seals are still dispatched

with one of two implements: the
Canadian club. or the Norwegian “haka-
pik."

The Canadian bat or club can be an
efficient and humane way to kill these
animals. However, pups in the “beater
stage.” having moulted assume a defen-
sive posture in which they retract their
head beneath a fold of blubber. making
it difficult to effectively damage the
skull and brain. We therefore believe
that the 24 inch bat. as required by
Canadian law is inadequate for animals
more than three weeks of age and
Should not be employed.

The W75 seal hunt opened officially
on March 15th and closed on April
24th. llarp seal quotas remained the
same as in W74:

Norwegian vessels

Canadian vessels

Landsmen

Aborigines

(10.000
(30.000
3 0 .000
l 0 .000

Adult Harp Seal Nursing Whirecoat Pup

Hooded seals are extended complete
protection in the Gulf of St. Lawrence,
but there is a quota of 10,000 for the
Norwegian and 5.000 for the Canadian
vessels operating on the Front (inter-
national waters off the coasts of
Labrador and Newfoundland).

Nine Canadian and eight Norwegian
ships took part in this year‘s hunt on
the Front. As of April lst. the Canadian
catch amounted to approximately
56.000 harp seals and 5.000 hoods.
Norwegian catch figures were unavail-
able for inclusion in this edition.

In the (jqu of St. lawrence (Mag—
dalen Islands) an estimated l500
licenses \ieie issued to landsmen. but
because of unfavorable ice conditions
(herd location and insufficient open
water). sealing operations were unable
to commence until late in the season.
Consequently. landsmen working from
the shore were only able to take 3.300
seals. before the herd moved beyond
their reach. The landsmen. operating
from longliners (boats less than (>5 feet
in length) were periodically able to
negotiate the ice and the five boats

have. as of April lst. taken a total of

4.500. One. the Sebaste. was crushed
and subsequently sank. Another. the
limmanuel-Sti/y. was also crushed. but
was later freed by an ice breaker and
towed to shore. l-‘ortunately. both
incidents were without loss of life.

l’ast experience. has shown the
majority of (‘anadian landsmen. operat-
ing from the Magdalen Islands, to be
unprofessional. lacking both expertise

and knowledge of the regulations. This
year. for the first time. on the advice of
Senior Fisheries Officers. courses in the
proper methods of dispatching and
skinning seals were held throughout the
islands. The program was well attended
but ISPA feels that anyone endeavoring
to obtain a sealing license should be
required to prove that he is knowledge-
able of all scaling regulations and
capable of killing a seal humanely.
Canadian law now requires that sealers
be a minimum of 17 years of age]
Apprentice licenses may be obtained at
age lo. but these individuals are only
authori/ed to assist hunters in hauling
pelts. elcetera.

lSl’A currently favors the 3-5 year
moratorium concept. Such a mora-
torium would enable the scientific
community to gzther reliable data on
the biology of the seals and also
accurately assess the size and composi-
tion of the herds on a long term basis.
Currently. field studies are only con-
ducted during the period in \xhich the

seals present themselves in the (iulf of

St. layytence and this. .we feel is
insufficient.

ISPA members wishing to express
their views on seals should write to:

'l‘hc Honorable Romeo lelilanc

Minister of l‘isheries

Ottawa. (‘anada

The Honorable liivind Bolle

Minister of fisheries

Oslo. Norway

‘7

continued on pg.

 




April 12, 1976s
3730 Uindom pl. 3. w;,
Washington D, C, 20016

Hon. Jack Hamilton "arren,
Canadian M 3bas sador,

l7h6 uass. Avenue, 5. 7..
Washington D. C. 20036

Dear Mr. Ambaso ador:

Provided that what 1 have re: id in the Newsyaper concerning Lhe a1pre—
hension and charging of Brian Davies, of New Erunswiok, JAAMJ with
violation of Cowadian seal grotection regulations Les any 13asis truth

I h3ve no ot“er alterﬁabe than to believe tE3aL LOAQL”04LA ill the facts

4".

thele 1333 been a are s bleed”“iare of justice on the ;ATL .1 those who
nade there charges.

but-

.1.

Any number of ;ersons have landed close to seals «33icn wexo 7 ein
chercd 11? 11" st all Lhe laws of muzzure 331d :3. 413.131.3113}! with Lit-e

3
tr M1009-

ters. For instance I read in the paper not Loo loam ago L:Ot a ’r. A1
Johnson, an airline wilot from San Francisco threw himself ecr es s a baby
harp Seal to greLect it from having its brains knocked out by a Norwegian_
aieter who stood close by; I assume he arrived on this weytiouler ice flee
by some tyie of airborne machine.

-‘>

Lorrw ' 4 on article which uppemmzi '11: the 1.3 Lionel (“reo-
1976 which was prettiy conclusive in 33:33:33.4'25': that
danger of xLinction fro" OV'JALLl. b and :ayVe
he 32:3{5323'1119 the cut. 0-1“ steLes 333.47, (emote
zdﬂmhﬂ QSIE>95« a“; ’fﬁmﬁﬂ.3g jij 3 1D
' I? I“???

You are
31": 331116
the 3.31“}:
other 0:
" I?El€13;

TO 53 31.

'F‘ 3 7 In
0r_:£1‘)‘.i.:.‘l:

JD
."‘.L.-:|

” 'f
Ii: (J b”; RI)
1

0
.g..{
wC.‘

f.)
H ['1

Pa.

”J

C;

r
}.
‘ Pa.

723:;
;;‘s'¥3z,3o

28", i;
',.-J 9 A yn

5J1 S

x" C)

3‘ "

i.‘ J .

-.l

LL~ (in; 1 1" ff:

. ; ‘ '23“. .' -~. ‘, > .A‘ ’. ' 'ﬁ: "0
3 I\,) -. (}Q ' ‘ .i.” (, "i "1' 4.1 :4 -‘4 ~’ X . .J... 1.1.1:. ‘1‘

3m:
L
6- l
I

L
P” J

Further (33.33:: in L210 '- " 1‘ ' 3 . I;;;=d thisto 03.3! ~ "4.3733363:
SEALS .3131-“ Cr.;f.'.3,"3-53 E) Hmvums , j; 37, no
01“ 1313332314.);15 20, UGO 30 1L7 souls slaw-3' ﬁltered) , ;.'3.1€f:~j7’1" f} i“ "53- 1‘55: 11)
" ‘ 31"?" 1732323102? 7’1 C273 LAAGE‘) SCALE SLALIEII’}, ﬂ??? {“- SIFIPS AND
9' “TLAJ; m) Or gzlﬁﬁlﬁﬁnﬁ OF ”EKEQALS, : ES.LCS E)934LZVL39R GYWRDAT "

On page 139 Lho author of the artic].e refers to a trip he anﬂ a collearue
zuade to the ice flees. 39J3.AL JINTVWE§ 7K)
JAG}: M,£I”‘SM .‘Lléﬁi: 3 17:33:] " *‘ ELJCOPTER TO 424-3311231 ’I‘JESSUE 8‘3: PLECS PRO}:
YUP c.1331‘5 ?( 936 ICZ.’€;L..' TOLD YE IN A ' 091i M HUT U310 99 \99A SP8
TO T32” IAf9ARjHE 3 G.) ior yesiici.4e analysis.......3)“ EH roﬂN'ON CHE
ICE J.“L”J AND E ”AI” ‘\’V”O"9' ":V‘.»DAL,YPTU) .«Fost {Khll s seqttmnvxl at
3m‘033A3n-ummg VM&E;W 3mm.kL.33?mummmxetouxL.u..u
The pereone mentioned n90ve appartenly were not c“urgwd with interferring
with the herds; whereas ELAN ‘).\Vl~’3ES 74'0“.“ IS LE'AZ-‘QT- 3) ET}; ’3"'.‘-..’1‘ OHM-NAB
AND I AM lNPO;9.D LUT“9. ID T IL \NU jAY A FlJEo

The whole thin to me, if true is asine and rédéoulous. Eero is a sit-V

nation where brutal slaughterina* Canadian anu Iorue ion Sealers brutally
kill those wonJOIful aninnls ﬁor the sinﬂle turw 99 Or TOVitmin 31198
for womeno coafa and a humanitarian tries to save tnem and is oh? rrna

 




NR. JACK ILmIL'; 2: 1322123331: . '. 8111 ET Tm APRIL 12, 1976

with lending his aircraft within a distance of a half mile of

which is being brutally beaten to-derth with clubs while it

mother tries to protect its baby.

Up to ’ho time that I he: rd about the ungodly seal slaiﬁ3to

country uni moot Korwemians oerticipate in ev‘ry 3; ,
iilli11;‘:‘~:fot’mr maizzals as well, I we 8 a regulz‘r vi ' szada.

I muot infoW: you thﬁt I will nevnr enter the ‘oni 3a of Conqda again
as long as t is brir gal slauwhter of helpleas amino

. ‘1
' 1.388 g

The citinens of 03.3?a, {the United States and other coup trie3 around the
world( ExhiudiuH So. 1k Hi and waybe soqe otm rs) are agzest at the “rutal
assault t2:t is :nde on t 1030 loveable animals every yo 3 '3‘ L threatens
then with extinction in a few short ye rs accor”in”to 333° on the

subj ect.( READ 5????) 31:7":‘1‘333 12'} TI: 1.) JANE-KR. 153873;) OF “iii... .......-.O 33:.-. if}: ‘0‘ “3111C.
I encloce 30m, keno literﬁtmre w%ich will tell you a - i "W .-“ 15+ inn
thorities on the sub.€ eet of seals and wha1< s feel 3?. “ 537 a .' '1 of them.
Bear in mind 3:: at I 3311 ammo of the killing; of 80.2.3 .. " ' .' islands
off the coast of "13.2-“ , 111.011 is done farinoi 132313.13; .. _-.« '- and ’
Janenese no ti 023.315 72.7.10 1.3330 slaughtering the 53:23.18 with =1.“ high
seas leaving many of them to dies horrible dooihs or be .61. 2 arrks
being 3~13t2301 to prot‘ct thensszlv 8 having: been L’sorizally

Humanitarians abhor brutality whereevor and whomever it . us. and intnr
opinion Sioux?”920311.23ng of those baby 808.13 mostly “if: at :‘ . 'j "’20 311332;,
esyecially 38 they PIG u¢“ﬂ for 3 no ﬂCOd “a” to *.*"7‘ T“‘i"rtous
WOT.;()I’1'S ﬁes-vireo “or :f‘zzr costs) when fel‘o furs , '- 30 "om-— eimost
as well and f (:ource much more reosonnhle : 4 ﬂ “ L ” ' Loos‘aniﬁal
of its life, oer cause its fioirauﬂht motﬂer ; ”‘2. 1’; .“w“ gain.

I have know: :f‘cr‘ y¢ 033's that the " ‘.’1-II’EB COATS ". have ween ....ai~.uo"n(’ off
the Goa-usi- of 5‘ maria on i310 ice flees: by not 0311" you. couniga y=.-on but by
.‘fforwepi ens {2.3 2033.; 1 313.. no 1301*" rd :e WLCA-SU—LVuM about Simu'iingg; an air
craft witl’rir. 01-0 int": mile of a seal, and {an relying"; entirely who . has been
related to ac: in i230 enclosed article. {Based 12.011 iii-111; 1 inure 30:: and
hearci whet ";‘i;.«31 waving Did was no worse i’ an witzii 0211222 rs live (Zone with
other aircz-fasf”t, nor do I (feel that it is any worse ti: on 071.} bum Macao
helple s croiinr s to ”woth by men with heavy clung end guLs.

All of noosircer 1y hope that yo u will infori youno in yvur country who
are ullowinai i,his bruicl busineb s to occur every Spling that txoae are
hndroﬁs of thousands 01‘ us in this country who ale against it not only
in your country but in our own as well. what tr:n8pir~s orch syrinn on-

not ]w 1p but da38”0 your image one stop 1m00p1c 110m Vibic 3. your country
where I must admit there are many nice things to go a.

sincerely yours

2101137.?! U. H "E'E’IT

 




PROJECT BANGKOK AIRPORT

by
SHIRLEY McGREAL

During their summer vacation in 19759 studente from Theilenéee
university coneervetion clubs undertook a wildlife traffic
surveillance project at Don Muang Airport, Bangkoks in the couree
of which all outgoing and transit ehipmente of wild enimele were

recorded“ The project wee to leeo to allover cute in ThailandFe wildlife

exporoéuotee and a atrong eppeel by the young people for

improvement of conditions nnoer which wild enimele ere ehipged in

international commerce.
REQHEST T0 PICK UP BIRDS

Project Bangkok Airport wee aeeerked by an incident which oconree
several monthe previously . In June 3974, a letter arrived at

my home in Bangkok telling me that seven birﬁe of prey exported
from Thailand to England in violation of Britieh lee had been
confiecated and were being held at the Royal Society for the
Prevention of Cruelty to Animals‘ London Airport Hostel. The letter
writer, Nick Carter , who is.Fer East representative of the
International Society for the Protection of Animals, asked me if
I could pick up the birds if they were shipped back to Theilnnd,
and arrange for their releaee in the wild. Without heeitetion, I
sent off a cable eaying "Send the Birds".

 




On the following Tuesday morning, a telegram arrived from England
telling me the birds would arrive the next morning. My confidence
began to waver! I knew well the reputation of the airport Customs
for causing endless delays and making everything complicated,(ﬂihe
Customs all over the world),Fortunately, on that very evening,

a nature lecture was scheduled at Dr. Boonsong Lekagul's home.
Dr. Boonsong is a local conservationist sometimes referred to

by resident Westerners in Bangkok as Dr. Birdsong as a result of
his extensive writings on the bird'life of Thailand. After the
lecture, i showed my telegram to Dr. Boonsong. He at once
introduced me to a group of university students standing nearby.
The students, to my surprise and delight, promised to meet me'at
the airport to help out. I had long admired the students of
Thailand. In October 1973, they had driven out the corrupt
military regime which had ruled Thailand for many years; the
young peeple had been armed with sticks and stones and unfailing
courage; many had died in the fight to bring democracy back to
Thailand. Since October, change had been in the air.

ARRIVAL OF BIRDS

Next morning, I got up early to be at the airport at 6.30 a.m..

the time the birds were scheduled to arrive. I found my way to
the old cargo terminal where Thai International flights arrive,
andiwas greeted by a crowd of over 20 students and Khun Vichit,
the head of Khao Yai Mational Park , where we planned to release
the birds. Also waiting was Katie Buri, one of the most remarkable

V

 




3

people I have ever met. Katie is a multimmillionairess who lives
simply without servants and sleeps on her bedroom floor without a
mattress when she is not leading hikes in the jungles of Thailandi

Although she is‘a grandmotherm-Katie outhikes everyone,young or

old! She had brought her Lenegbver to the airport to drive us,

and the birds, to Khao Yai.

The birds arrived safely after their Y7whour flight. But soon
problems arose. We had to wait till 9 o‘clock for the Customs to
open. We were staggered when the Customs officer told us we would
have to pay 2800 baht ( $140) for the birds! These birds cost 81
each on Bangkok's Sunday Market, and here we were being asked to
pay 320 for each one! And we only planned to keep them a fee hours:
I didn't have the money. Katie refused to pay, and demanded to .
speak to the Customs Chief. We were ushered into the Chiefts
air-conditioned office. The Chief was adamant» no money. no birds!
Katie exploded with rage and told the Chief she hoped he would be
a bird in his next incarnation, a choice Buddhist insult!

We left the office and sat around in the hot sun, each party
.waiting for the other to make a move! I was despondent, the birds
had come so far, and it looked like they might die at the airport.
Suddenly a clamor arose. I turned and saw Katie and the students.
Approaching the circle, I saw in the center several crates of

birds and a hapless Customs official who was clearly losing the

 




verbal battle! Ironically, the birds in the crates were Black
Shouldered Kites and Shihra Hawks, the same species as we were

‘“ trying to pick up! The birds were on their way to Thailand's
former-enemy, Japan! And the young people were expressing their
outrage in no uncertain termes that Category I Protected Birds
were being exported. It was an extraordinary thing to see these
gentle, smiling Thais turn into relentless combattants! I resolved
then and there to try to find a say for us to work together to
eliminate the sordid wildlife traffic which was rapidly emptying
Thailand's wonderful jungles of their wild denizens.‘

BIRDS RELEASED

Three o'clock came and we were still waiting for our birds.
Finally, somebody decided to call Dr. Boonsong. Since he is a

very old man, we didn‘t want to disturb him unless absolutely
necessary. At 4 o'clock, he arrived at the airport. Finally, after
what he described later as ten miles of walking all ever the airport,
he somehow got the birds released for $20! But it was too latec

to go to Khao Yai. So everybody drove to a nearby Buddhist temple,
Wat Phrasri Mahatat. The cragtes were opened. Six of the seven
birds immediately flew to freedom. The last bird” jumped on to

Dr. Boonsong's hand, sat there a minute for photographs, then

took off and circled around the red gabled roof of the temple
before disappearing from sight. I went home exhausted. I

was met at the gate by my maid, Pranom. She was in a state of great
excitement. She had won $1000 in the National Lottery. As soon

‘as she heard my story, she gave me an unmaidly hug, and said it

Q

 




was me who had brought her good luck by releasing the birds!
According to Buddhist tradition, peeple "make merit" by releasing
birds. Next day, to show her appreciation, Pranom bought a kilo
of hamburger for my dog!

A few weeks later, I met my student friends again. The groups which
had sponsored the birds' return, the International Society for the
Protection of Animals and the Royal Society for the Protection of
Birds, had sent money to buy books for the university conservation
clubs? libraries. A Western animal-lover living in Thailand, Mrs.
Delia Lane, had added many more books. So we were able to donate
over~ 150 books to the libraries. After that, the students started .
to visit my house frequently, meeting visiting naturalists.

seeing my prinate slides, and talking about wildlife. On one occasion,
a student asked if he could bring his slides of Thai wildlife since
he did not have access to a projector. I said. fine; what {chimeed
was a delightful surprise party. Twenty students arrived, all
bringing their slides of Thailand's national parks and sanctuaries.
The "slideothon" lasted £111 midnight. '

PLANS FOR "PROJECT BANGKOK AIRPORT"

I struggled to think of how I, although a foreigner or "farang" as
they call us_in Thailand, could form an alliance with these students
to challenge Thailand!s seemingly all-powerful wildlife traffickers.

 




Finally, in the middle of one of Bangkokis hot sleepless nights,
the idea of "Project Bangkok Airport" germinated. The project would
involve long—term surveillance of the wildlife traffic through
Bangkok Airport with the purpose of studying the volume of traffic

and the conditions in which it was conducted. Before the idea was

completely formed in my own mind, I told Nick Carter about it,

and received a letter by return mail saying that ISPA would pay
the expenses of one week, and the Fauna Preservation Society the
cost of another. Later on, and, always just as the project seemed
about to run out for lack of funds, cheques arrived from the New
York Zoological Society, Christine Stevens of the Animal Welfare
’Institute, and, of course, Katie. As a result or all this generous
assistance, the project ran throughout the entire tenmweek

university vacation.

After a meeting at my house, the students agreed to participate.
The team leaders, each of whom would lead his team for 2 or 3
weeks, would be Nilratana Phathanaseree, Viroj Pruesanusak,
Suchart Khulkhosa and Chanchai Rairat. Suchart would lead the first
team of Mahidol and Kasetsart students. Suchart studies biology
at Mahidol University; he is a tall, very slender young man with
an excellent command of English . He has the famous Thai smile on
his face most of the time. Nilratana is an advanced student of
architecture at Chulalongkorn, the Royal University of Thailand
and its most prestigious academic institution. He is an extremely
intelligent and idealistic young man with real leadership ability.
The third leader, Viroj Pruesanusak, is a hardmworking, persistent
medical student. Although, like all the students, he found the

U

 




English language extremely difficult, Viroj never tired of

coming to my house to practise the language, telling me fascinating
stories of his volunteer medical work in Thailand's remote villages,
and his explorations in the jungle. Somehow, in the course of his
struggles with the English language, he had amassed an amazing
vocabulary. Viroj arranged that his team should perform a ahmhour
watch at the airport so that the project would have a complete
picture of how the traffic was conducted. He is now the Internatienal
Primate Protection League‘s Student Representative in Thailand,

and it is good to know that the primates hare such a fine young
person looking after their interests. The fourth leader was to be

Chanchai Rairat, a shy fellomwstudent of Suchart's at hahidol.
PROJECT PREPARATIONS

Before starting their airport assignments, the students studied

the International Air Transport Association (IATA)‘£igg Animal
‘Regulations, which set mandatory standards for animal shipments.
Identification guides to birds, mammals, and reptiles were procured.
Check-sheets were prepared with four main headings; animals

(species, number, condition); container (size, material, ventilation,

 

food, water, conformity with IATA Standards); transportation

 

.Qgggilg (airline, flight number, shipper, receiver) , and General

Comments.

Project Bangkok Airport was ready to begin.

 




'ANEMALS-TREATED AS THINGS

»From the beginning, it was clear that both the extent of the wildlife
traffic from Thailand and the conditions under which it was
conducted were nothing short of horendous. Live animals were treated
as any other commodity, and, in fact, the students learned that

they were classified as "cargo" and booked and ticketed as such.
Clearly, a new category of "Animal Passengers” is required, with
separate ”hooking facilities, waiting and transit areas, and
organised care all along the way. The current situation not

only leads to enormous animal suffering, but dehumanises a little
-evryone who participates in it, from the shippers, airline officials,
and importers, to those who gawk at soc animals, benefit from
monkeymbased medical research and monkeymtested drugs, or who feed

the traffic by buying exotic pets.

PROCESSING OF ANIMAL SHIPMENTS

Over the years, Bangkok Airport has been a major wildlife smuggling

center, and the students were always on the alert for the possibility
of smuggling. They soon realised just how easy it would be.

There was no central place for processing wildlife shipments,

they were delivered directly to the airlines. All shipments must

be checked byma Customs official who places a tiny seal (1 centimeter
in diameter) on the crate.Customs is open from 8.30 to e.30,

with a skeleton staff on duty at night, charging overtime fees.

 




Certain species require a health certificate, others do not.

(Otters, for some reason, don't need one, as we were to learn later).
-The veterinary office is open from 8.30 to 4.30, with nobody on duty_
at night. A Forestry office is on hand to inspect bird and

mammal shipments, but not reptiles, sinée no reptiles were protected
in Thailand at the time of this project. The Forestry man Ls
supposed to check a) that the animal does not belong to a species
totally banned from export, b) that, if there is a quota for the
species, it is not exceeded, 0) that export permits for protected
species are in order and d) that the invoice correctly describes

the species. Only one Forestry officer was on duty to check
shipments, and he had to coevr two terminals three miles apart.

A Forestry officer was on duty at night, and slept at the airport;
he was suppgsd to be called if an animal shipments needed processing
at night or early in the morning.

SMUGGLING masseuse-

Until just prior to the project, dealers with shipments leaving in

the night or early morning were allowed to take consignments hack to
their compounds. Although this reduced animal discomfort, it made it
very easy to switch animals at one's leisure. Late in 197s, a

friend had told me she had seen a lineucage leaving on a midnight flight,
with five monkeys on the outside, and three endangered and protected
gibbons in the middle. The Customs seal was in place so it is likely

_ been
a "switch" had/\made.

 




The students considered that smuggling of animals by day in open
crates would be almost impossiblee There were just too many people

around._ At night, things were very different, the airport was almost
deserted; With only a few labbrers and brokers hanging around , and

a few Customs officers in their night office.t

Unfortunately9 the most common method of animal smuggling can be

utilised at any time of night or day. It is the old "snakembox" trick,
which has been around for years, but rarely fails. Snakenboaes (see
illustration) have tiny ventilation holes, and animalss sometimes

drugged, can easily be hidden in these boxes. The students were constantly

frustrated by their inability to see inside the “snakeaboxes".

They never saw a single one opened by the Customs, who were understandably

nervous of letting a venomous snake loose in a crowded airportﬁ

The students knew that, in 1971, a notorioas trafficker, the Bangkok
Wildlife Company had shipped h gibbons to the USA in snake-boxes.

In transit at London Airport, they were sent to the BSPCAhAnimal.b
Hostel, where thestaff opened the crates to feed a chicken to the
"snakes". One gibbon was already dead, and two were dying. Only one
survived the episode. Onesday, a frustrated and exasperated Niratana

enlarged one of the ventilation holes with his ball point pen.

* Soon after the project ended, the scandal broke in the Thai press
of how a gang of crooked Customs officials had assisted a Thai
dealer called Pimjai to export 4 shipments of protected gibbons
to Canada in early 1974, as well as numerous shipments of other
banned species.f§sveral of the gibbon shipments had been ordered by
the Comparative Oncology Laboratory at the University of California
at Davis, and are under investigation by the US Fish and Wildlife

anService. All shipments left at dead of night.

 




11
Out popped a tiny gecko lizard who msde s quick escape. Another
smuggling technique used by Wildlife traffickers is to build
‘crstes with false back on bottom compsrtmentss where rare animals,
sometimes drugged,are stuffed, with e “hegsl” enimel in front.
Of course, it was impossible for the students to guess at the
extent of this kind of smuggling, But there was one significant
incident which indicated it might have gone on during the prokecto
After two weeks of airport observations; Suchert and Miss Puangpetch5
a beautiful biology student from Mehidols went to visit the compound
of the Bangkok Wildlife Compsny. They see no Slow Lorises, nocturnel
primates, for which there is herdly any local demendo During the
8 remaining weeks of the project, the animals never appeared? so it

- illegally

is likely they had been/exported. The ssme dealer had, in fact,
shipped 16 Slow Lorises labelled as “Spitting Cobras“ to the
USA in February 1975, not to mention a Gibbons in snakewcrates to
the USA in 1971, and four gibbons in snekeecretes to the USA via

London in 1972.

PROBLEMS OF EXPORT PROCEDURE

Another source of problems in policing the wildlife traffic was the

fact that most Customs officers simply could not identify the species
of animals shipped. The Forestry officers varied in competence, some. _
could recognise most species, others were less able and had to accept

the dealer's word as to the identity of the animal or bird. Since

 




around 200 birds could be crowded into one crate, it was very
difficult to check the exact figure; some officers merely counted the
crates, making it difficult to enforce quotasa Most flights for the
Eastern United States and Europe left in the middle of the night,

so the shippers, anxious to avoid overtime charges, tended to bring
in their wildlife shipments around 4 p.m. , half an hour prior to
Customs closing. So many shipments arrived at this time that making
more than a cursory check was practically impossible. Sometimes
shipments were brought in as late as 4925 and received the most
superficial of inspections. The students considered that shipments
arriving so late should not be accepted. Noting that they were

never refused, they concluded that the Forestry men eere "too kind“
to the dealers in their Final Report.§ \
The two cargo terminals were three miles apart. The-old terminal

was crowded and noisy. It was used by Thai International, Lufthansa,
Swissair and Air France, all major wildlife carriers, and local
carriers such as Singapore Airlines, Air Siam and Cathay Pacific,
which Carried many of the Japan~bound birds. The new terminal was
clean and modern and less crowded. It was used by KLM, Japan Air Lines,
British Airways and Pan Am, the two former companies doing a heavy
business in animals, and the latter two relatively little. British
Airways did not carry a single wildlife shipment during the entire

time of the project, since their Cargo Manager, Khun Singkarn,

 




13
refused to carry any crate which did not meet the standards. It was
in the new terminal that the veterinary office was located. Three‘
veterinarians rotated on duty. Although the students saw the vets
inspect dogs, they never saw theminspect a single wild animal. nor
was a vet ever seen at the old terminal. “Health certificates" were

issued nonetheless.

Both terminals were always crowded with brokers, who know all the
tricks. Brokers do the paperwork for most wildlife and other cargo
shipments. Some of the Bangkok brokers have been involved in Wildlife
smuggling. One company, Bangkok Air Services, processed all the i974
illegal gibbon shipments.

mma 5 LIVE ANIMAL STANDARDS

\ .

.The IATA Live Animal Regulations have existed for years but have

been almost totally ignored by the airline members of IATA as well as
by nonnlATA lines. In February 1975, the rewritten regulations were
made mandatory. However, no enforcement provisions were written into

them.
The Regulations state that all wildlife containers;

1) must have the consignees's name and street address painted on
the crate, a useful way to prevent loss or misdirection of shipments,
as paper tags often get torn off,

2) must have an IATA Live Animals tag attached,

 




3) must have "This Side Up" labels on all four sides,

4) must be stored prior to flight in a draftefree area at a
temperature apprOpriate for the epecies,

5) must be kept in a quiet place,

6) must have a supply of fresh and uncontaminated water, and.

7) must be handled without jolting.

In addition, the Regulations establish cage standards for different
.species of animals? including everything from aardvarks through
chameleone, dolphins, elephants and flamingdes to worms, zebra and
Zebu. The container notes describe the materials to be used, deeign
principles, preparatione prior to departure, and food habits of the
animal. Information on general care and loading is added. These
standards could do much to alleviate the miseriesOf travelling
animals~_if enforced, although there is no way to legislate a spirit

of care and concern.

.In spite of the general chaos in the cargo areas, the students soon
learned to locate animal crates. They learned their way around the

corridors and alleys, and found a source, of useful "intelligence"

 




15

in the "airport urchins", small boys who live and sleep there, and

know absolutely everything that goes on.

ELEPHANT SHIPMENT

Thailand‘s eXport quota for baby elephants was thirteen at the time
of "Project Bangkok Airport". Since freight charges from Bangkok to
the USA ran around $10 per kilo at this time, it was clearly in the
dealers‘ andcpurchasers' interest to ship the animals as young as
possible in order to minimise the shipping cost§10ne baby elephant left
in the course of the project. Although the crate was satisfactory,
the students considered that the elephant, which must have been
between three and four months old, was far too young to travel.

The elephant, together with its container, weighed 196 kilograms,
and the freight charges would have been around $2000. Suchart and
. Puangpetch saw another elephant.awaiting shipment at the Bangkok
Wildlife Compound. It was tethered§§'

' MONKEY SHIPMENTS

Thailand's export quota for monkeys is 6000; most of the animals go
to the USA and Europe for medical research. IATA sets high standards

' 3 this practise is a cruel one. In 1970 and 1971, three elephants en
route from Thailand to the USA arrived dead at the RSPCA Hostel in
London; In I9755+teo‘babh«elephdnbd awaiting shipment died at Pimjai‘s
compound.

 




16
for monkey shipments; cages are to have Wire mesh fronts, sliding
doors at the rear, food ﬁnd water containers which can be filled
from the outside and a drOppings tray which can be cleaned from
'the outside. Several monkey shipments left in the course of the
'project; one was described on the checkesheet as containing 25
monkeys, 5 "older", 12 "very small“ and 8 "babies". The 20 younger
animals were stuffed into a threemcpmpartment cage. There were no
droppings trays, and no food and water containers, although the
monkeys, consigned to a New York laboratory primate dealer,
had at least 40 hours of travel ahead of them. The baby monkeys were
tiny and clearly unweaned. The students concurred that such pathetic
little creatures should not be esported. Their mothers have to be

shot in order for them to be ecaptured in most cases.
OTTER'S LIFE‘ SAVED

I used to stay at home, preferring to avoid the airport, since I

.was concerned that the presence of a conspicuous foreigner would draw
attention to the project and get the young people driven out of the
airport. The students would visit my house in the evenings to

discuss what they had seen. However, one day, one of the student
checkers telephoned and asked me to rush to the airport as he

had seen a baby otter which looked like it was going to die. I

rushed to the airport and found the otter ,aone of a shipment of

four off to a dealer in Switzerland, was indeed sick. Suthira Lim,

the student who had called, rushed over with me to the vet's office

 




17
to seek assistance. The vet got out his ruleubook and announced
he had no authority to stop the otter's departure, as the otter
~~was not on his list! Nor would he accompany us to the old terminal
to look at the animal. Ardith Eudey, who runs the International
Primate Protection League with me, helped me and the students fill
the otters' empty waterwpots. The three lively otters drank greedily,
but the sick otter did not move, just lay there glassyweyed.
We realised that he was probably dehydrated, but there was no way
to open the box, and we couldn't get him to move to the water.
Ardith and I returned home sadly. After dinner, we tried to settle
down and forget the otter, but within an hour, we jumped into the car
for another journey through Bangkok‘s traffic .jams to the airport.
'The otters' waterupots were empty again. The laborers completely
ignored the animals but finally we persuaded one of them to find
us some water. When the pots were full, the three otters drank at a
furious rate, and one even tried to sit in the watermpot. We teased
drops of water at the sick otter who was lying in the same position
as when we left him. Finally, however, he started to stir, and
slowly wriggled over to a water-pot. Once there, he dranhuand drank,
and drank some more. Afterwards, he became active and started to
nibble at the fish we had brought along. There is absolutely no
doubt that this otter would have died an unnecessary and pointless

death of dehydration if we had not been there, as so many otters have

died in shipment in the past. Neville Whittaker, Manager of the

 




18
London Airport Hostel, says that otters are poor travellers,

with 50% death rates not being unusual. * Otters need water every

few hours, whether at airports or in flight. And the airlines are
too preoccupied with their human passengers to pay any attention to

otters.

BEARS FROM CALCUTTA

One night, I passed by the airport for a latennight spot check. In

a corner, I saw What I first took to be some very shaggy dogs.

0n closer examination, they turned out to be very young bear cubs.
And they had arrived at Bangkok from Calcutta that afternoon, on
their way to Frankfurt. Why had they come 1500 miles East to gen
West? Sensing a strange story, I called Dr. Boonsong. Fortunately,
he had a large group of students at his house, and, in half an
hour, a large group arrived. The sight they saw was appalling.
Bangkok was suffering from one of the worst heat waves in its
history aggravated by 90% humidity. Even at night, the temperature
stood at 90°. The bears were disgracefully caged. There were two
crates9 one had three bears in separate compartments and the other had
two bears. Each compartment was so small that the bear occupying it

could not turn around. There was no cross-ventilation. There were no

*"ln‘July,l97h:’sinﬁotters'were”shgpped to Los Angeles by a Thai
dealer. They were transshipped at Honolulu; on arrival at Los
Angeles, four of the otters were dead. The shipment was refused

entry to the US, and put on a flight back to Bangkok. One more otter
died on the way back. The sole survivor arrived at the airport. The
eXporter refused to pick him up to avoid paying the fare, it was cheaper
to let the animal die;,And the otter did die, after 48 hours with no
care at all.

 




19
droppings trays; one of the bear cubs hadsevere diarrhea and was
rolling in its excrement. There were no waterapots. The shipper
~had however put some bread slices in a bag, aha tied a note to the
bag asking that the slices be soaked in milk and fed to the bears.
Nobody had paid any attention to the packetg of course. In any case,
the airport laborers do not «reaa Englisha Pertwrming such takKSis
r nobody's assigned duty, so nobody does it. It is as simple as that.
And it is the same in airports all over the world, except those few,
like London, that have hostels for travelling animals run not by
the airlines but by animal welfare organisationse Writing up this
incident, Suchart asked the question; "why do the airlines and the
shipper allow the bears to suffer alike this?" Before leaving, we
unwrapped the package and managed to locate some milk, so the
‘animals were fed. They were not due to leave for Frankfurt till the
next morning. Later 9 we sent detaile and photographs to IATA with
a strong protesto We have not heard of any action being taken,
although the shipment was in clear violation or IATA Regulations.
Airlines which sell cut-price tickets to human passengers are

assessed fines of tens of thousands of dollare for each violation,

but an airline that perpetuatee gross cruelty on its animal passengers
gets away with it. x I

 




20

Transshipment is an ordeal for travelling animals. These bear cube
of

had we wait/17 hours in Bangkok for their connecting flight, even if

it was on timeo Often transshipped crates are shunted aside and*»

forgotten till the smell of death attracts eomeone's attentionot

SMUGGLING EFFORT FOILED BY SUTHIRA

Amid the daily round of prosaic logging of shipments, the young-people

were naturally hoping to catch a real live smuggler! It was Suthira

Lim of Kasetsart University who finally “caught one! Sitting in the

New Terminal one afternoon, she noticed an American arriving_with a

gibbon. Suthira had carefully learned the difference between a Thai

gibbon , which has white hands and feet, and a white ring around its
face, and the gibbone of Laos and Vietnam, which are Jetmblack

with white cheeks, and a pointed head. The American showed an export

* Some transshipped wildlife cargoes which ran into trouble; April 25,
1973, 48 of a shipment of 60 baboons from Senegal transshipped in
Paris arrived dead in Estroit; the importer alleged the animals had
been forgotten for a week; August 27, 1973; 30 of 34 monkeys
shipped from Ghana via London to Canada died at Toronto Airport
while awaiting a connecting flight to Montreal; the Canadian
importer alleged the animals were kept in Toronto for 48 hours;
March 27, 1974, an entire shipment of 10 gibbons smuggled out of
Thailand for a US laboratory was transshipped at Frankfurt to a
flight for Montreal; all ten gibbons were dead on arrival; the
carrier disclaimed-responsibility on the grounds that the.animals
had died of "natural causes“; June 1974 , 54 of 60 unweaned
Stumptail macaques shipped from Thailand and traneshipped at
Amsterdam were dead on arrival at Moscow Airport ..

 




2?

permit for a Vietnamese gibbon, but Suthira noticed that the gibbon

'was clearly Thai and notified the authorities. She called the Chief
of Wildlife Conservation, who * sent two enforcement officers to

‘ the scene. The gibbon stayed in Thailand.
BIRD EXPORTS

In the ten weeks of Project Bangkok Airport, close to 70,000 birds left
their native land for overseas destinations, including 15518 of the
popular talking mynahs, 13640 parrots and parrakeets, SShh singing
bulbuls, 954 Laughing thrushes, and 389 Whitemrumped shamas, among
Thailand's most marvellous songbirds. There were also 15520 gaudy
Pintail parrot finches, 2300 delicate flowerpeckers, and

over a hundred of the exquisitely beautiful Fairy Bluebirds. There
were smaller numbers of bee—eaters, pittas, heapoes, leafbirds, rioles,
‘ white~eyes, and other bird species. Local conservationistfwere alarmed
at the large number of birds exported, for example, to get 15, 500
mynah birds, one has to break at least 8000 nests, and probabiy more,
since many of the captured infant birds die. There is no easy way

to catch adult birds for which there is, in any case, little demand.
Many of the insectneating birds such as beemeaters, pittas , drongoes
eﬁﬂ leafbirds and flycatchers are so specialised in their diets

that they are unlikely to survive more than a few days or weeks in
captivity, and a bird like the h00poe, which has to get its insects by
probing, has barely a chance. But the birds left nonetheless, most for
pet shops and buyers with no idea of the suffering they were causing.

 




In general, the bird crates were overcrowded , no doubt to minimise
- shipping charges. Conditions were generally unsatisfactory; during
the two weeks when Nilratana was teamuleader, 152 of the 180 bird
crates had no crossmventilation, 67 contained no food, and 111 had
no watermpotsa Many birds were_already dead in their crates before
their flights left. The bird cages received rough handling, being
tossed on and off weigh scales and being lifted at 45° angles with
all the birds heaping to one side. One laborer sat on top of a pile
of crates, including some rare kingfishersg pounding on the sides
with a hammera When the students protested the rough handling, one of
them was told; "That's nothing, you should see as throw them on to

the plane!"

Ninety percent of the birds sore consigned to Japan. Nobody was able
to learn the reason. Many were probablfkghipped elsewhere. In one single

afternoon, 1h00 mynah birds left for Takyo.

REPTILES-3" AM P141 BiﬁﬁS

21,-158 reptiles left during the course of the project, 4262 snakes:
of various species, 11049 lizards (including 29h Monitors), 2310 frogs,

. .m, .4 .. .... I

566 tortOises, 1511 turtles and 360 newts~£§irﬁi$laeéx , as well as
a few reptiles listed on their invoices merely as "reptiles". Since
1 not a single reptiles was protected in Thailand at that time, the

species was not considered of any importance.

 




NONmENFORCEMENT or IATA STANDARDS

i Among the findings of the project was ' almost total nonucompliance
by shippers with the IATA Standards. Most of the crates did not bear
the consignee's address, and "This Side Up” and."Live Animals" tags
were usually missing. Crates were stored haphazardly all over the
terminals, in the midst of the heat and noise. Many boxes contained
neither food nor water, and the handling was frequently brutal.

:Few crates bore even a remote resemblance to the IATA Standard

containers.

Suchart discussed the non-enforcement of the IATA Standards with a

representative of Siam Zoo, a combination company composed of 5 of the
biggest dealers. The dealer gave as his reason for the small? cramped
bird cages he had brought to the airport that a) the trip to Japan is
short so the birds do not need much space, b) he would have to pay
extra for standard cages, and c) if he followed the IATA rules,

the receiver would have to pay more, and so would buy his birds from
India instead 5f Thailand, or buy from a Thai dealer who did not
follow the standards. Suchart also talked with the Cargo manager of

a major European airline, and reports the following conservation in

his final report.

Suchart; Does your airline have an official to check whether the
the container follows IATA Standards or not?

Airline officiali Yes.

 




Suchart,Does IATA send someone to check the containers?

Official, In Asia, there is no official from IATA to check.

’

Suchart, Why do the containers not follow IATA regulations?

Official, If we enforce the IATA regulations tho strictly, the
shippers will not use our airline, they will use other airlinee which
are not strict about containers, as there are so many airlines in

Bangkok.

Suchart concluded that IATA should itself send officials to Bangkok
and all the airports of the world to check enforcement of standarde, and

that local airlines should insist that the regulations be followed.

STUDENTS' PLEA

When the ten weeks of the project were over;\the next task was to
compile the data and convert it into action. A statement was prepared
entitled "Wishes and Hepes of the volunteers of this project concerning

the export of Thailand's wildlife." It stated;

1. No further export of Thailand‘s wildlife'as it is heading
towards extinction. Soon Thailand's future human generations will see
no more wildlife.

- 2. Wild creatures should have the chance to lead their natural
lite and have the privilege of freedom.

 




a "K 2-: K

/""-'¢t’§¥m5e‘" “mu-nuanceu
_‘.‘:f‘“’"
r

 

 

 

‘ﬁ/\

,ef” 51> “2“

In studies with the DESmeXpQSGd mice to date, no visibie changes in
the deveTOpment of the whoie animai have been tonne. The offspring appear
to grow normally and to reach puberty normaiiy. There is same evidence,
however, that reproductive tract iesione may be predated in maie offspring
foiiowing DES eXposure during gestation.

Work wiii continue at NIEHS to determine whether maie offspring of
DES»treated mothers aiso may be at risk“

Aithough DES has generaiiy been discredited as a method for preventing

abortion, it has been found to be an effective pestwcoitai.contraceptive

and has been approved by the Food end Drug Administration fer use in
emergency situations, A preposed iegisiative moreterinm on this use of
DES hes been Opposed by HEw Seeretary Casper heinherger.

DES eiso has been used routineiy as e cattie teed eeditive to speed
weight gain, and the HEH "ecretary has indicated thet he wenid net Oppese a
ban on use of DES for this purpose.

The NIEHS was estabiished in i956 with a primery geei to advance

fundamentai knowiedge abent the effects of envirsnmentai agentswmchemicaiﬁ

physicai, and bioiogicwmuppn the health of man.

# h #

 




U. S. 1T.: " 1'"/"=.1"‘"‘1111 1* 5‘1 (1? * 11:1! I111,1513111153“'11-’311.[111.113 ‘1‘1’131113’111115;
Nat1one1 1nst1tute 01 tnv1ronment11 E11zabeth domes
Hea1th cC1GﬁC€S (919) 549~8411, x3345

FOR RELEASE 1N A.M. PAPERS

A research contract has bee n awardedl o the Medica1 Co11ege of V1rg1n1es
Richmondg V1rg1n1a, to continue a deta11ed c11n1ca1 ava1uat1on of workers
exposed to the pes 1e1de VE: :“1one

The one yL.er contract was recent1y announced by Dr. Dav1d P. Ra11,
Directoro the Not1o1c1 Institute of Env1101mente1 Hea1t h Sc1ences (HIEH819
Research Triong1e Pork: H.015 one of HEH‘s 111101“1 Institutes of Hea111

The recent d1scovery of acc1denta1 chron1c exposure of w01kers to \O1cde
1n 1ts concentrated rorm at the L1te Sc1ence Products Company (t1e nation's

so1e manufacturer of the pest1c1dea s1m11ar 1n structure to M1rex) 1ed to

a Federe1, state, and 1oca1 investigat1on of 1nd1v1due1s potent1e11y exposed

to the pest1c1de5 1nc1ud1ng factory workers; the1r reTat1ves1 and res1den1
of Hopewe115 V1rg1n135 the s1te 01 the p1an1

More than 110 pe0p1e who worked at the p1ant during the 16 months 1t
produced about 3000 pounds per day of the wh1te powdery pest1c11e have been
1ocated and tested. ‘0ver ha1t of these peop1e showed h1gh 1eve1s of Kepohe

1n the1r b1ood. Doctors say the chem1ca1 can be absorm [through the <1n

(More)

 

1he111em1 ono1 Inst1tutes of Hee1th (NIH) is one of s1x agenc1es of
HEH's Pu 1111c He a11.n1 Serv1ce.

 




inhaied, or ingested. 0f the known Kepone poisoning victims, over 20 have
been hOSpitaTized at one time or another as the result of aiiments inciuding
apparent brain and Tiver damagea M eriiii2y3 siurred speechs Toss of n duty
and twitches of the eyes.

To date there is no known treatment to aiieviate the eziects of im oneﬁ
but some of the workers appeared to improve when they were removed from
exposure to the poison. Efforts to treat the poisoning victims have been
hampered because Kepone is a reiat.ive Ty n(mr compound, and there has been
virtuaiiy no research on its effects on hnnaas Additionaiiyg information
in animais is meager; OnTy a few animai studies have been or!
distribution and toxicity; and the me ahoiic fate in animais
uni<noivn The Tack of information regarding Kepone extends aiso to metacc:
of its chemicai anaiysis.

The sum of $8 5000 has been provider by HTEhS for ie year to pe zm7n
investigators at the Medicai CoiTege of Virginia (who have unique access
the human victims of the Kepone poisoning and who have awii ady coTTectcd

preiiminary Taboratory and cTinicaT data on these individuais) to invv

the potentiai hazards of exposure to the chemicai in order to understand its

‘.. “a
V,-. ‘

toxicity and to provide a basis for rationai therapy, The Nationai 7nsiztate
" Environmentai Heaith Sciences is iesooisi pie for determining the :ao2,iro
e
and significance of the hazard to man's heaith inherent in Tongwterm exposv““
to ion TeveT COHCPHLYBLIOQ‘ of che mica] environmentai agents.
These investigations iviTT provide data, not availabie Hroi any other
source, on the human heaTth effects of one memoe of this important ciass

of chemicais.

(More)

 




The work will be carried out through a coordinated effort invotvthg

c1ihictansg pathoiogistss anatyticai Chemists; toxicoiogists, and pharma«

cotogists at the Medical Cottege, which is proximate to the Hopewett ptant
site. Dr. Phi1ip S. Guzetian, Assistant Professor in the Cottege’s Depart“
ment of Medicinea W111 direct the work; and Dr. H. 8. Matthews wit] coordinate

the project for the NIEHSe

 




10.,

' “3’0
4%,, ‘
. .

9"" z

' i" .
"K; .
H

“1,:
It),

2;;

J . .J‘u

,, ‘ ul . H
7‘ grifﬁn-a} t
“airman... ,, v‘
'2 m w \

 




INTRODUCTION

The National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences (NIEHS),
located in Research Triangle Park, North Carolina, is a component of
the National Institutes of Health, one of the six agencies in the
Public Health Service, Department of Health, Education, and Welfare.
Established November 1, l966, the NIEHS is the principal Federal

agency for biomedical research on the effects of chemical, physical

and biologic environmental agents on man's health and well-being.
Unlike regulatory agencies concerned with the environment, NIEHS

takes a long~range approach. Its scientists study the combined effects

on man of deleterious man-made and natural substances and clarify the
biological mechanisms of adverse responses to them. NIEHS scientists
hope to identify the principles that can be used to set standards to
prevent threats to health and work to develop the tests that will tell
us which compounds may be hazardous before the compounds are introduced
into our environment.

 




CONTENTS

Mission

>Uniqueness of the NIEHS Program
Other Institutes of the NIH .................................
NationaI Institute for OccupationaI Safety and HeaIth .......
EnvironmentaI Protection Agency .............................
NationaI Center for ToxicoIogicaI Research ..................

Organization for Research ........................................

Selected Research Highlights
Bis (ChIoromethyI) Ether ....................................
Asbestos
DES .........................................................
Ozone and Nitrogen Dioxide .................................. 8
Dioxin ...................................................... 10

Future Programs .................................................. II

 




NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH SCIENCES

Mission

The National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences is striving
to advance fundamental knowledge of the effects of environmental agents—-
chemical, physical and biologic-~on man's health. Only by learning how
particular environmental agents exert their toxic effects on the body,
how the body handles them, and how it stores or eliminates them will it
be possible to predict how other environmental agents will affect man's
health.

NIEHS supports and conducts fundamental research focused on the
total interaction between man and potentially toxic agents in his
environment. NIEHS research results serve as the basis for preventive
programs for environmentally-related diseases and for action by regulatory
agencies such as the Environmental Protection Agency.

 




Uniqueness of the NIEHS Program

While the NIEHS program is broad and may appear to overlap with
other programs established by the Federal Government to prevent and/or
combat environmental health problems, the NIEHS programs, when compared
with those of other agencies, exhibit unique features. V

 

Other Institutes 9f_th§_ﬂlﬂ_

Within the NIH, individual Institutes are usually oriented towards
study of groups of similar diseases (as the National Cancer Institute)
or a single organ system (as the National Heart and Lung Institute).
NIEHS on the other hand, is oriented towards study of toxic agents,
and the basic mechanisms of such agents' effects on health.

A single environmental toxic agent may cause more than one disease
and affect more than one organ system. Certain basic processes are
common to environmental diseases, regardless of which organ or organ
system or disease is involved, and NIEHS concentrates on study of these
basic processes. For instance, by a process called "toxication“ a
chemical taken into the body may be converted from a harmless substance
into a toxic chemical. The now toxic chemical may then harm either the
organ which "toxified" it or some other organ. Conversely, chemicals
which are harmful when taken into the body may be "detoxified" by one
organ or another and rendered harmless. NIEHS is particularly interested
in toxication and detoxication, since these processes are common to
envirOnmental diseases generally.

National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health jﬂIOSH)

The National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health hazardous
substances program differs markedly from that being developed at NIEHS.

 




While NIOSH is concerned with one subset of environmental health--that
of occupational health-—the NIEHS focus is the total interaction between
man and potentially toxic agents in the environment. Further, while
NIOSH focuses primarily on the work force and the work place, NIEHS is
concerned with environmental effects on man throughout his life span.
NIEHS must focus on identifying hazardous agents regardless of where
they occur or whom they affect.

Environmental Protection Agency (EPA)

 

The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) works to develop standards

and regulations to protect man from harmful effects of the environment.
For this reason, it must necessarily pay more attention to problems that
are immediate threats to man. Its research tends to be more applied than
basic. EPA alsotends to concentrate on specific media, such as air or
water, and on the pollutants found in each medium on an individual basis,
_often without taking into account interactions of toxic agents within a
singel medium or multiple exposures from more than one medium.

The NIEHS focuses on agents regardless of the medium in which they
occur. NIEHS places emphasis on studying compounds both by themselves A
and in relation to others with which they may come in contact whether in
water or air.

National Center for Toxicological Research (NCTR)

 

NIEHS also differs from the National Center for Toxicological
Research (NCTR). NCTR is primarily engaged in testing toxic agents
and in protocol development. NIEHS is involved, as one of its activities,.
in developing better methods for quickly testing potentially toxic environ-
mental agents. Development of such tests requires support by basic research,
which NIEHS conducts to understand the mechanisms by which disease occurs.

 




Organization for Research

To mount the broadest possible attack on environmentally-related
diseases, NIEHS uses three mechanisms to support research on a wide range

of problems. The Institute conducts research in—house through its intra-

mural program, it supplements and complements this intramural program
through contracts, and it provides grant support to outside organizations
such as universities through its extramural program.

Currently NIEHS supports seven university-based centers made up of
scientists who collaborate to develop information about the causes and
nature of environmentally-related diseases. These centers serve as a
national resource, and their programs are closely coordinated with the
intramural research program of NIEHS.

Located at teaching institutions selected for their ability to attract
and train gifted students in environmental health and related sciences, the
centers focus on heavy metals and other toxicants (University of Cincinnati),
occupational and environmental health (Harvard School of Public Health),
relation of environmental agents to human health effects (Mount Sinai School
of Medicine), environmental health sciences (New York University Medical
Center), environmental management (Oregon State University), heavy metals
(Rochester University), and environmental toxicants (Vanderbilt University).

Center grants serve to integrate the efforts of scientists in several
traditional disciplines and to foster application of expertise across
disciplinary lines to environmental health problems. The multi-disciplinary
composition of center staffs permits the centers to turn readily to the
research problems posed by new environmental health problems.

 




Selected Research Highlights

Since its establishment in l966, the NIEHS has been involved in
research on a variety of environmental health problems, many having major
significance for man's health. These are a few of the many areas in which
NIEHS scientists have made major contributions; further information on
these and other subjects currently under study at NIEHS is in the pamphlet
entitled ”NIEHS Research Programs."

Bis (Chloromethyl) Ether

 

.work done by NIEHS grantees at the New York University Institute of
Environmental Medicine revealed a significant hazard to human health which
could be controlled or removed from the environment. This hazard was
associated with bis (chloromethyl) ether, a colorless chemical that is
one of a family of organic chemicals commonly called halo ethers. These
compounds are used in large quantities in the chemical industry for
polymerization and stabilization of polymers.

_ The NYU investigators suspected on the basis of the chemical structure
of the bis (chloromethyl) ether that this compound might be carcinogenic,
capable of causing cancer. Testing the compound in mice and rats supported
this theory. Bis (chloromethyl) ether is a potent carcinogen when applied
to the skin of mice or when injected in mice or rats. In fact we now
know that very small concentrations in the air may cause a significant

increase in certain kinds of lung cancer.

Following development of these findings, NIEHS alerted agencies to
the possiblity that other halo ethers could be toxic. As a result the
Occupational Safety and Health Administration began controlling exposure

to halo ethers in the work place. Later the Environmental Protection
Agency was able to identify a significant hazard to human health when
several halo ethers were found to contaminate river water in various
places.

 




. Asbestos

Another problem that concerns NIEHS is how to protect the population
from hazards associated with compounds we already are using that seem
essential to our everyday living and continued economic development. This
dilemma is sharply apparent in the case of asbestos. It is now clear that
failure to carry out research on this problem and to apply appropriate
control measures in the l930's and l940's left us with a terrible legacy
of perhaps tens of thousands of asbestos-related deaths.

At first regarded as relatively harmless to man, scientists later
identified this compound as the cause of asbestosis, a fine scarring of
the lungs of persons exposed to asbestos dusts over long periods. In the
late 1950's asbestos also was suggested as the probable cause of a peculiar
form of cancer called mesothelioma, which up to that time had been a text-
book rarity. Later studies confirmed its role in both diseases and as
a cause of the more common type of lung cancer as well. It is particularly
deadly to cigarette smokers exposed to its dusts.

One especially disturbing aspect of the asbestos problem is that it
takes years after exposure before adverse health effects become apparent,
in some cases up to 35 years. Today an estimated 5 million American men
and women--workers in asbestos plants, insulation workers, construction
workers, steamfitters, carpenters, tile setters, auto mechanics, and
the like--daily breathe in significant amounts of asbestos fibers.
Estimates are that approximately 40 percent of these workers may die
as a result of the exposure. We do not yet know with certainty whether

mesothelioma, or other cancers, result only from heavy exposure or

_whether prolonged low-level exposure will be equally injurious.

The asbestos hazard would be serious enough if the workers were
the only group at risk, but the problem extends further. Asbestos fibers
can be found in the lungs of essentially every adult who lives in large
urban areas because in many buildings the air supply is contaminated as
it passes through asbestos-lined spaces, and because there is asbestos
in the ambient air.

 




Recognition of this environmental hazard has stimulated long-term
research such as the extensive work on asbestos NIEHS has supported for
approximately nine years. It is largely because of this work that we
now know the consequences of uncontrolled industrial use of asbestos.

A major accomplishment of NIEHS grantees at Mount Sinai School of
Medicine has been to link mineralogy to medicine and to develop methOds
for detecting and quantifying asbestos in air and water samples in human
tissue. Recently, for example, this group obtained air samples during the
use of spackling compounds in home repair work. Their analyses of the
samples revealed that asbestos is a significant component of some of these
products. The asbestos concentrations were freqUently in excess of the
current occupational standard for permissible asbestos exposure levels.

Recently the Environmental Protection Agency tUrned to this group
for recommendations when confronted with asbestos contamination of drinking
water in Duluth, Minnesota, as a byproduct of a mining operation. Because
the true severity of the hazard associated with ingested asbestos is not
clearly known, the Mount Sinai group has begun studies to determine if
asbestos-like fibers are present in the Duluth water supply and if the
exposed population has a higher than usual concentration of fibers in
their body tissues._ Additionally, and at the direction of Congress, NIEHS
is currently initiating research to determine what health effects--if
any-~are associated with continued oral exposure to asbestos.

Recent Congressional hearings on DES (diethylstilbestrol), a synthetic
hormone used currently as a ”morning-after" contraceptive and as a live-
stock feed additive, have generated great interest in this compound and on
its potential toxic effects. DES has already been found to cause vaginal
and cervical cancers in young women nearly two decades after their mothers

used the drug to prevent miscarriages. This tragedy occurred because few

 




compounds have been examined for their toxic effects on reproduction and
development although many compounds are continuously introduced into our
environment. Virtually nothing is known about the effects on the develop-
ment of offspring after birth resulting from the mother's exposure to
drugs and common chemicals.

In studies with DES, NIEHS scientists have found the embryonic period
of development, which occurs before birth, to be uniquely sensitive to
chemical insults. Chemical alteration of normal embryonic development
may even lead to infertility and cancer later in life. Using a mouse
model NIEHS scientists have shown that exposure before birth (prenatal)
to DES adversely affects the reproductive capacity of female offspring.
This effect is related to the size of the dose and is due in part to
the relative inability of the female offspring to ovulate. It may be

possible to develop this animal model so that the mechanisms responsible

for causing tumors in the young women can be understood and future
disasters of this type prevented.

NIEHS researchers also found male mouse offspring to be sterile
following prenatal exposure to certain doses of DES. Recently effects
of prenatal exposure to DES in the male human offspring of treated mothers
were clinically described. This finding in mice has been reported so that
the medical community can be alerted to a potential problem.

Ozone and Nitrogen Dioxide

An example of NIEHS work on ozone concerns studies underway virtually
since the establishment of the Institute in l966. These studies have now
' uncovered strong evidence that ozone and another pollutant in our environ-
ment--nitrogen dioxide-~are contributing, if not primary, causes of
pulmonary emphysema and chronic nonspecific pulmonary disease. In addition
to protecting us from the most harmful of the sun's rays, ozone can
adversely affect our health.

 




A part of the picture establishing the sequence of events of ozone
and nitrogen dioxide toxicity was provided by NIEHS grantees who produced
an experimental facsimile of human emphysema in rats. They also showed
that ozone is approximately twenty times more toxic than nitrogen dioxide.
In fact within a few hours of exposure to less than 0.5 part per million
ozone-~a concentration readily achieved at peak traffic hours in some
urban areas—~considerable adverse reaction in the lung becomes apparent.

Other grantees found that the focal points of damage in the rat at
all levels of exposure to ozone are the small airways of the lung. Still
others discovered that the carbonyl compounds that begin to circulate
in the blood stream shortly after ozone exposure may, through simple
chemical techniques, serve as a basis for early detection of ozone damage.

While all these studies establish rather clearly what happens in
ozone and nitrogen dioxide induced lung disease, the research of other
NIEHS grantees encourages the belief that much of the damage induced by
these two pollutants at low levels can be prevented and perhaps reversed
in the early stages. Some grantees have demonstrated that lipid
antioxidants, particularly vitamins A and E, protect against ozone
toxicity; others that certain minerals, particularly zinc, may be useful
for this purpose. These findings are particularly important as emphysema
has led to death for an increasing number of pe0ple since l950, and chronic
nonspecific pulmonary disease is now a leading cause of disability among
adult males.

To complete the picture of ozone and nitrogen dioxide toxicity,
clinical evaluations must be made of vitamins A and E, zinc, and other

compounds, as well as combinations of these in test animals and eventually

human populations at risk of toxic exposures. Through these efforts, we
may be able to conquer the diseases the two pollutants cause.

 




Dioxin

Another example of NIEHS activity concerns the contaminant "dioxin"

(2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin or TCDD) found in commercial samples

of the once commonly used herbicide 2,4,5—T (2,4,5-trichlorophenoxyacetic
acid). At first scientists believed 2,4,5-T itself affected the develop-
ment and viability of mouse and rat fetuses. Following work done by an
NIEHS team, however, a contaminant in the 2,4,5-T was discovered to be
the real culprit. This contaminant was a dioxin referred to as TCDD.
TCDD has since been revealed as one of the most toxic substances known
to man. After the NIEHS research was reported, the Environmental Protection
Agency restricted use of 2,4,5-T.

Subsequent studies by NIEHS researchers revealed an increased
susceptibility in mice to bacterial infection as a result of exposure
to TCDD. These studies showed that extremely low levels of TCDD, which
do not produce clinical or pathological change, still have the capacity
to affect host defense. These findings are significant in that humans
may be exposed to environmental contaminants such as TCDD in minute
quantities and, therefore, may be rendered more susceptible to certain
types of infectious agents.

 




Future Programs

Over the coming years the number and complexity of environmental
health problems will increase as more Chemicals are introduced into
commerce and as increasing concentrations and numbers of potentially toxic
effluents are emitted from such sources as the petrochemical industry and

other energy sources-~the old as well as the developing new ones. All
these factors will influence the continuing development 0f the NIEHS

programs. I

More effort is needed to develop short—term tests for mutagenicity
that may serve as presumptive tests of carcinogenicity, to develop methods
to test for agents capable of causing birth defects or teratogenic effects,
and to develop better methods for extrapolating research findings in
experimental animals to man. In this way we will be better able to respond
to problems caused or aggravated by the proliferation of potentially toxic
compounds in our environment.

We also must develOp a better understanding of the mechanisms of
action of hazardous agents and of the body's means of handling these
agents. To do this NIEHS will have to expand its programs in aerotoxicology,
pharmacokinetics, and biophysics. These programs are critical in studying
the inhalation of vapors, dusts, and aerosols; in finding better ways to
study the mechanisms of uptake, storage, persistence, metabolism, and
excretion of environmental chemicals; and in establishing dose—response
relationships that will effect more meaningful extrapolations to human
exposure situations.

Although expansion of these programs will provide the answer to many
questions in the environmental health field, NIEHS also must initiate new
programs if it hopes to cope with the complexity of environmental health
problems. These programs include chronic disease epidemiology, behavioral
toxicology, and other methods of safety testing for hazardous compounds.
Because epidemiology is the major tool used to identify factors associated

 




with human disease in real life settings, it plays a vital role in health
research. Behavioral toxicology also performs an important function. In
many instances behavioral changes occur before significant bodily changes
can be demonstrated, so they can forewarn us of potential dangers. Through
these new programs, as well as the ones currently ongoing at NIEHS, we will
try to prevent the environmental health problems of tomorrow.

 




ALFRED R.GLANCY,JR.
4l8 FORD BUILDING
DETROIT 26,MICHIGAN

Ianuary 22 , 19 60

Dear Christine:

Replying to your letter of Ianuary 19, I am a Director of the American Horse
Shows Association, and we have been aware of this practice, and, frankly,
it is not as prevalent as the article would make it appear. The Tennessee
Walking Horse Division of the American Horse Shows Association is relative-
ly new, and our rules for the division were admittedly rather lax. At the
meeting in Detroit last week we passed rules prohibiting the use of what is
known as a bell boot under which many of these evils could be hidden, but
do permit the useof a quarter boot with a hinge that the judge or any
official can lift for inspection quickly and easily. The reason quarter
boots are used in walking horses in the show ring is that they often over-
reach with their hind hoof and can inflict an injury on themselves to their
front hoof and the quarter boot serves as a protection. In addition, the
penalty rule for abuses of this nature was made more rigid. As the rule now
stands, the rule now states that the judge in all stake and championship
classes must have the quarter boot removed for inspection and. any horses
found with any evidence of current or past injury is barred from the class .

I have contacted Mr. Iames Blackwell, who is the Executive Secretary of

the American Horse Shows Association, and asked him to get in touch with
you in New York to review with you what is being done and to convey to you
the assurance that the American Horse Shows Association is constantly look—
ing out for the prevention of the very thing recited in the article. Our rules
and regulations nowcover, to the best of our knowledge, the prevention of
any inhumane act and provide for stringent penalties on their indication.

We are all proud of our sport, and are greatly disturbed when conditions of
this sort are brought to our attention. Incidentally, I am enclosing a copy
of the letter I wrote to Adrian Van Sinderen, President of our Association,
prior to our convention here in Detroit, which, unfortunately, I was unable
to attend because of being caught with the flu bug, but I learned that the
Walking Horse Committee had already drawn up rules and regulations to be
submitted to the meeting as outlined above.

I certainly appreciate your bringing this to my attention. If you ever hear of
anything else like it don't hesitate to get in touch with me because none of
us will tolerate any abuses or hurt to a horse in or out of the show ring.

Ir.

Mrs. Roger L. Stevens
22 East 17th Street
New York 3, N.Y.

 




25

3. Stick to IATA's Regulations if export of wildlife should carry on,

b. Schedules for wildlife officers should be strict and in rota
form so there will be somebody on duty 24 hours and held responsibl
for the time alloted to him -

5. There must be proper labelling of containers, shippers' and
receiversa address, together with a truthful declaration of the tree
species and total numbers.

6. Be on the alert concerning exPort of protected species.

7. Make data concerning numbers and species eXported in order
to prevent extinction before it is too late, i.e., keep an eye on
unprotected species as well. '

An abbreviated summary of the findings was prepared. Katie presented
it to the committee members of the Siam Society, a group which

exists to study the culture: of Thailand. Members were concerned.

The Society's President, Prince Wan Waithayakorn, s senior member

of Thailand‘s beloved Royal Family, sent the report, along with
photographs,and a plea to curtail the wildlife traffic to M. R.
Kukrit Pramoj, then Prime Minister of Thailand. A few days later,
Katie called me in great excitement; she had been contacted by the .
Prime Minister's Chief ' Adviser with a request that all project

papers and logs be provided: for further study. Everybody began to

 




26
hope that, when the Board of Wildlife Conservation met to set export
quotas for 1976, there might be some reductﬂions. However, nobody I
dared be too optimistic as the dealers were known to have powerful
connections in influential circles. Althoug jail sentences were
prescribed for violations of wildlife protection law, no dealer had
ever seen the inside of a prison; they tended to get fines of $10 for
offenses which had netted them thousands of dollars in the few cases

'tdhgtewany action was taken at all. To complicate matters, the Board
of Wildlife Conservation was composed of representatives of the
various ministries (Defense, Commerce, Interior, etc.), many of which

had nothing’to do with conservation at all.

GOOD NEWS

But, when the quotas appeared, soon after I had left Thailand,

conservationists must have been thrilled. Almost all mammals were
assigned zero quotas; joining gibbons, langurs and feline on the

zero quota list were elephants, macaque monkeys, lorises civets,

bears and otters. Most of the insect—eating birds could no longer be
exported. EVen the mynah bird quota was dosh from 20,000 to around 6000."
And, for the first time, a reptile, the Monitor Lisard, was declared

a protected animaluand given a zero quota.”

* A 200 friend recently sent me a Siam Zoo pnicelist for
Sanuary—February 1976. Everything was listed, including elephants,
monkeys, otters, bear cubs, civets, pittas, leafbirds, orioles,
fairy bluebirds.

 




 

 

27
STUDENT APPEAL TO AIRLINES

The students also sent an appeal to every airline serving Bangkok,
requesting compliance with the IATA Standardso (See inset)a Thesplea

was also:sent to IATA.
CONCLUSION

Project Bangkok Airport is the first time that a day~to~day surveillance
has been made of the flow of animals through a major airport. It is
sadly true that what was uncovered by this project is duplicated at
most of the worldFs airports, both in the East and in the West.'
Bangkok Airport is better than some airports, and worse than others.
only a few of the appalling incidents ever come to light, and then the
airlines usually complain the incidents are untrue or exaggerated.

or not *typical of wildlife shipping in general. The truth is that

the incidents are the inevitable result of the total chaos and
unconcern that marks international shipment of animals all over the

'world.

For me, the weeks working on "Project Bangkok Airport" were among the
most rewarding of my life. I shall never forget Nilratana, Suchart,
Viroj, Suthira and Puangpetch, and all the other smiling Thai students
Whose hard work and unqeenchable cheerfulness made Project Bangkok

Airport such a success. Nor can I forget the tens of thousands of




STUDENTSS APPEAL TO AIRLINES

During Marchg A‘pril3 May and June, 1975a students from Chulalcmgkcrng
Mahidol and Kasetsart University had been watching the exportation
of live animals at Don Muang Airport. We found that there were

many live animals exported by *the airlines . After careful
investigation, it was found that the exportation did not follow

the IATA Regulations of transporting live animals by airplanes

of which your airline is a member. The animal cages or containers
were too small, overucrowded and had inadequate ﬁventilation. As

a result9 live animals suffered during the transportation,

and many were dead from lack of proper food and care. On the
containers there were no labels indicating "Live Animal", and the
names-of the species in the containers were not declared. The most
important thing wasmthat the containers which were different from what
the regulations allowed had often helped the illegal smuggling

of the endangered species. Therefore, we Would like you to

_consider this prOblem seriously in order to improve the situation
and follow closely the IATA Regulations.This will facilitate the

' investigations of Customs officers and prevent the illegal smuggling
of the endangered species. We have confidence in your honorable

service and sincerely hope that your airline may not risk

your good reputation by violating the IATA Regulations of Live

Animal Transportation.
Signed: Chainarong Pongsuwan, Chairman, Chulalongkornllniversity
Conservation Club

Professor Kumpol Isrankura, Assistant Professor of Zoology,
Adviser to the Club

 




6 McBride Avenue
White Plains, NoY. 10603
May 10, 1976

Animal Welfare Institute
P.O. Box 3650
Washington, D.C. 20007

Dear Sirsg

Please find enclosed a copy of Bill No. HtR. 11828 "to establish a

CommisSion on the Humane Treatment of Animals". This bill is presently in
committee and must be acted upon to avoid its being "killed" there.
I am sending this letter with a copy of the bill to the various animal

welfare organization in the country (listed in Encyclopedia of Associations)

 

 

with the hopes that a concerted effort on your part will urge its passage.
It may well be one of the more important pieces of legislation concerning
animal welfare today.

If compassionate peonle in this country were made aware of this bill
they would certainly be willing to write their congressmen in support of it.
Fowever, the only publication in which I have seen reference to this bill

was an article in a recent issue of the National Enquirer with regard to

 

cruelty in animal excerimentstion. A country-wide campaign could be con-
ducted by animal welfare organizations in order to publicize the bill.

Thank you.very much for your consideration and good work.

Sincerely yours,

Barbara A. Whalen

 




H. R. 11828

 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

FEBRUARY 10, 197 6

Mr. KOCH ( for himself, Mr. BEARD of Rhode Island. Mr. OTTIXGER, Mr. SARA-
SIN, and Mr. ZEFERETTI) introduced the following bill: which was referred
to the Committee on Agriculture

 

A BILL

To establish a Commission on the Humane 'l‘reatment of

l Animals.

Be it enacted 61/ the Senate am] Home of Iﬁj)resmzIzz-
tilft‘S of {he U/zimZ Stu/(n9 of ilmvrim in Congress (mm-Inwed,
COMMISSION ON TIIE HUMAXIC TREXI‘MLEX'L‘ ()1? ANIMALS

SECTION 1. There is estahlished a (“minim-ion to he
known ar< the Cnnunissien on the Humane il‘reatmeut ml
Animals (hereinafter in this; Act referred to as the “C0111-
mission”) .

DUTIES OF COBIMISSIUX

SEC. ‘2. (a) The ConunissiOn Shall study the ll‘t'flilllt'lll

ofanimals, including——

1—0

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

p4

N)

5:)
L )

{)5

2

(1) whether current farming practices cause need-
less infliction of pain on animals;

(2) whether laboratory research experimentation
(including biomedical and military research) causes
needless infliction of pain or unnecessary suffering of
animals;

(3) whether there exists any adequate substitute
for the use of animals with respect to laboratory re-
search experimentation;

(4) the treatment of animals in the domestic pet
industry;

(5) domestic pet growth rates, especially in urban
areas, and whether such growth results in dangers to
the public health;

(6) the treatment of animals while being trans-
pm'ted in interstate commerce;

(7) the treatment of animals in zoos, wildlife pre-
serves, and other “similar establishments;

(8) the need for wildlife preservation programs;

(9) whether methods which cause unnecessary
pain are being used in the trapping and slaughter of
animals; and

(10) the effectiveness of existing law with respect
to the treatment of animals.

(1)) The Commission shall not. study~the treatment of

 

 

- ,,,..»mtw...~-~.. ..,u a... .. M...“
p -

- ..V.V-A.,..._r-‘—..—...¢- ‘n-twmwmn... ., .-.._......, .., .mpwm ..




 

v.9”)p‘y-elmvw'ur n 1..» u r

v-rr.w1ll.‘7

. ,. .............—......._.-~.. ....._ _. w -. ......_... .

.v. .- ......-..,._ y"- in..." -m. ..-. ,. ...

17

18

19

.21
22

23

3

animals occurring in connection with the exercise of any

MEMBERSHIP

SEC. 3. (a) The Commission shall be composed of
eleven members appointed from among persons who, by
reason of their knowledge and expertise, are especially
qualiﬁed for service on the Commission. Of such members——

(1) two members shall be appointed by the Presi-
dent pro tempore of the Senate;

(2) two'mcmbers shall be appointed by the Speaker
of the House; and

(3) seven members shall be appointed by the

President.

(b) In making appointments under paragraph (3) of
subsection (a) of this section, the President shall provide
that the following are adequately represented by the mem—
bers so appointed: 7

(1) animal welfare and humane societies;

5

Ix)

) medical schools;

O
V5

(‘ ) persons engaged in the profession of zoology;
<4)

persons engaged in the practice of veterinary
medicine ; ‘

(5) persons engaged in the practice of animal

husbandry; and

 

 




 

 

It
15
1(5
17
18

19

4
((3) persons engaged in the profession of wildlife
hielecm;
DJ

(c) A vacancy in the Commission shall be ﬁlled in

the manner in which the original appointment was made.

(d) Members shall he appointed for the life of the
Commission.

(e) (1) Except as provided in paragraph (2) , mem-
bers of the Commission shall each be entitled to receive
the daily etptivalent of the annual rate of basic pay in effect
for level V of the Executive Schedule (5 CBC. 5316) for
each day during which they are engaged in the actual per-
formance of duties of the Commission.

(:3) Members of the Commission who are full-time ofﬁ-
cers or employees of the [inited States shall receive no addi—
tional pay on account of their service on the Connnission.

(:3) While away from their homes or regular places of
business in the perfm'mance of services for the Commission,
members of the Connnission shall he allowed travel expenses,
including per diem in lieu of subsistence, in the same manner
as persons en’rployed intermittently in the Government serv-
ice are allowed expenses under section 5703(1)) of title 5,
l'nited States Code.

(f) Six memhers of the Ctm‘nnission shall constitute a»
quorum hut a lesser number may hold hearings.

(2') There shall he a Chairman and Vice Chairman of




10
11
12

13
14.

16
17

18

5
the (,‘tunmission who shall be elected by the members of the
Con'nnission from the Commission membership.

(h) The Commission shall meet at the call of the Chair-
man or six of its members. '

DIRECTOR A‘SD STAFF OF COMMISSION EXPERTS AND
‘ COSULTANTS

SEC. —l. (a) The Commission shall have a Director who
shall be appointed and Whose compensation shall be ﬁxed by
the Commission”

‘ (b) The Commissitm may appoint and ﬁx the pay of
such additional personnel as it deems necessary.

(c) The Commission may procure temporary and inter-
mittent services to the same extent as is authorized by section
3109 (b) of title 5, United States Code.

(d) [Ypon request of the Commission, the head of any
Federal agency is authorized to detail, on a- reimbursable
basis, any of the personnel of such agency to the Commis-
sion to assist it in carrying out its duties under this Act.

I’O‘VERS OF COMMISSION

SEC. 5. (a) The Commission may secure directly from
any department or agency of the United States information
necessary 'to enable it to carry out its duties under this Act.

Upon request of the Chairman of the Commission, the head

of such department or agency shall furnish such information

to the Commission.

 




 

 

 

 

01

«1

CD

15
16
17
18

19

2O

21
22
23

24

6

h) The _.onnnissi(_m may use the United States maiis

”5-.\

in the sane manner and upen the same conditions as‘ a“
departments and agencies of the United States.

(c) (1) The Commission shall have power. to is:
subpenas requiring the attendance and testimony of van
nesses and the production of any evidence that relates ta
any matter under investigation by the Commission. Such
attendance and testimony of witnesses and the productitia';
of such evidence may be required from any place within
the United States at any designated place of hearing within
the baited States.

(2) If a person issued a subpena under paragraph
(1) refuses to obey such subpena or is guilty of contumaty

any court of the United States within the judicial district:

within which the hearing is conducted or within the judiciat

district within which such person is found or resides or
transacts business may (upon application by the Commis~
sion) order such, person to appear before the Connnissiou
to produce evidence or to give testimony concerning the
matter under investigation. Any failure to obey such order
of the court may be punished by such court as a. contempt,

thereof.

.‘i V‘ ‘ _‘ . . .
(.3) lhe subpenas of the Comnnssion shall be served

1n the manner provided for subpenas issued by a United

 

 

 

 




20
21

7
us district court under the Federal Rules of Civil Pro-
cedure for the linited States district courts.

(-1) All process of any court to which application may

made under this section may he. served in the judicial

district wherein the person required to be served resides
at may he found.
REPORT
SEC. 6. The Commission shall transmit a ﬁnal report

to the President and to each House of Congress within two

gears after the last member is appointed to the Commission

(other than an appointment to ﬁll a vacancy). Such report
shall contain a detailed statement of the ﬁndings and con-
clusions of the Commission, together with its recommenda-
tions for such legislation as it deems appropriate.
TERBIINATION

SEC. 7. The Connnission shall cease to exist sixty days

after submitting its ﬁnal report under section 6 of this Act.
AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS

SEC. 8.-There is authorized to he appropriated not to

exceed {$750,000 per year to carry 'out the provisions of

this Act.

 

 




News?” H; R 11828
A BILL

To establish a (jonnnission on the Humane
Treatment; of Animals.

 

 

 

 

By Mr. KOCH, Mr. BEARD of Rhode Island, Mr.
OTI‘INGER, Mr. SARASIN, and Mr. ZEFERETTI

 

FEBRUARY 10, 1976
Referred to the Committee on Agriculture

 




SOCIETY FOR ANIMAL PROTECTIVE LEGISLATION
P. O. Box 3719
Georgetown Station
Washington, D. C. 20007

May 12, 1976

Ida/ML,

"Painful Tragping Devices," 347 pages of testimony given
November 17 and 1 , 1975, before the Subcommittee on Fisheries,
Wildlife Conservation and the Environment of the Merchant Marine
and Fisheries Committee has just been published.

To assist you and your staff in extracting the most essential
information from these hearings on a subject never before considered
by the Congress, I attach some excerpts with their page numbers for
ready reference collected under the headings of Pain and Terror,
"Trash" Animals (those of no cash value to the trappef77'CHIIdfen

22§,EEEE§§£E Animals (children hurt, dogs and cats maimed for life

or euthanized when gangrene has spread too far to save them), How
Tra ed Animals Are Killed (strangled, beaten, stamped to deatﬁ Eo
avogg puffing a BuIIeE Hole in the pelt), Currently Available Pain

Reducin Methods (which are only rarely used), Endangered S ecIes
(incluagng Hundreds of the symbol of our country, the endangered
Bald Eagle caught in traps set for bobcats), and, finally, One
Percent Professional, statistics showing that 99% of this activity
which causes such appalling suffering and destruction is carried on
by so-called "recreational trappers" and children. Average income
per general trapping license in Minnesota is $364 a year.

We urge you to call for a strong, effective law to restrict to
the minimum the use of painful trapping devices.

Sincerely,

(ﬁzz; JZ;

Christine Stevens

Secretary 3 F 7. 2 33L

Enclosures

 




WHAT IS BWIROi‘ilVEIl/IL HMLTH RESEARCH

A Review of the Programs of the National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences

OPEN MEETING -— February 25, 1976

Lecture Room *
National Academy of Sciences
ZlOO C Street, N.w.
Washington, D.C.

P R O G R A M

 

Overview -~ National Institute of Environmental
Health Sciences

Dr. David P. Rall
Director, NIEHS

Environmental Health Centers ~~ Organized for Research
on Emerging Health Problems
Dr. Norton Nelson

Director. Institute of Environmental Medicine
New York University

Environmental Health Centers —» Quick Response to
Environmental Alarms
Dr. Irving J. Selikofi

Director, Environmental Sciences Laboratory
Mount Sinai School of Medicine

General Discussion
Lunch
Overview ~~ National Institute of Environmental

Health Sciences Inhouse Research Programs

Dr. James R. Fonts
Acting Scientific Director, NIEHS

 




2:15 p.m. ~ 2:45 p.m. The Effects on the Offspring of Mice Exposed to
DES During Pregnancy

Dr. John McLachTan
Research Associate .
Environmentai ToxicoTogy Branch, NIEHS

2:45 p.m. — 3:30 p.m. The UtiTity of NewTy DeveToped Short—Term Tests
for Mutagenicity

Dr. Frederick J. de Serres
Chief5 Environmentai Mutagenesis Branch, NIEHS

NationaT Institute of EnvironmentaT HeaTth Sciences
Supported Studies on Kepone Exposure in Man

Dr. PhiTip S. GuzeTian
Assistant Professor
Department of Medicine
MedicaT CoTTege of Virginia

* PTease note that the meeting pTace has been changed from the NationaT Institutes
of HeaTth to the NationaT Academy of Sciences.

 




 

U. 3. DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH. EHUCATIQN. AND WELFARE-E.

Nationa1 Institutes of Hea1th
Eiizabeth James
FOR RELEASE IN A.V. PAPERS ' Office ~ (919) 549~8411, x3345
Friday, June 20, 1975 Home - (919) 833«1223

Scientists at HEH's Nationa1 Institute of Environmentai Hea1th Sciencesi
have deve1oped a method of testing the toxic effects of DES (diethy1sti1bestroi).
a synthetic hormone. on unborn anima1s.

Recent reports have described the 1atent appearance of previousiy rare
genita1 tract tumors in young women whose mothers had been given DES during
gestation. During the 195D‘s and 1960's a number of women having troub1e
with their pregnancies were given the_drug to keep them from aborting.

Using mice in their experimenta1 mode1, the investigators wi11 try to
determine how and when damage to offspring of DES~treated mothers occurr.

The experiment aiso shouid be usefui in studying factors associated
with transp1acenta1 carcinogenesis and hopefu11y heip investigators'find
predictive indicators of cancer.

The very eariy ovaries are being taken from unborn mice and grown in
cuiture. Some are then being traced through the norma1 process of deveiop~
ment and studied to see how changes occur when there is no interference..
Other ce11s of the same kind are being exposed to DES to determine what
changes occur in thefway the ce11s deveiop.

/ (more)

 

tThe Nationa1 Institute of Environmenta1 Heaith Sciences (NIEHS), in
Research Triang1e Park? N.C., is a component of the Hationai Institutes of
Hea1th, one of the six agencies of HEH's Pubiic Hea1th Service.

 




