Suffering Caused To Horses
7 In The Manufacture of ‘
AN‘TITOXIC SERUM‘S

‘By M. BEDDOW BAYLY, M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P. ’

 

 

 

 

1 940.

Published by the Animal Defence and'Anti-Vivisection Society,
15, St. James’s Place, St James’s Street, London, S.W.1., and
4. Cour St. Pierre, Geneva, Switzerland.

PRICE ONE PENNY.

1;:
I

 




REFERENCES.
(1) Serums, Vaccines and Toxins, by Drs. Bosanquet and Eyre.

(2) A System of Bacteriology, Vol. III, p. 355; published by the
/ Medical Research Council, 1929. ‘ «

(3) English version edited by Dr. John Eyre, Director of the
Bacteriological. Department, Guy’s Hospital. .

(4) Serums, Vaccines and Toxins, by Drs,Bosanquetiand Eyre.

(5) Medical Research. Council’s Report on Diphtheria (1923),
- p. 13.1. 7

(6) Ibid, p. 134..

(7.) A Manual of Bacteriology, by Hewlett and McIntosh
(Churchill, 1932), p. 295.

(8) Serums, Vaccines and Toxins, by Drs. Bosanquet and Eyre.

(9) A System of Bacteriology, Vol. III, p. 356; published by the
Medical Research Council, 1929..

(10) A Manual of Bacteriology, by Hewlett and McIntosh
(Churchill, 1932), p. 295. ‘

p (11) Recent Advances-in. Vaccine and Serum Therapy (Churchill,
1934, p. 2.) ‘

( ) The British Medical jomai, August 5th, 1899, p. 348.

(13) Preface to 1916 Edition, p. Vii; omitted from later editions. .
( ) The New Pioneer, November, 1938. i

( ) Report of Royal Commission on ViVisection (1912), p. 5.

 




SUFFERING CAUSED TO HORSES IN THE
MANUFACTURE ’OF ANTITOXIG SERUMS.

BY M. BEDDOW BAYL.Y, M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P. ,

In calling attention to the suffering caused to horses during
the production of antitoxic serums by chemical manufacturers, it
is well in the ﬁrst place to point out that the ordinary care and
treatment of the horses is not in question.

There can be little doubt in anyone’s mind that as regards
feeding, grooming, stabling and general attention the well-being
of the animals is carefully considered. It would be contrary to
the manufacturers’ interests to jeopardise the maximum output of
serum by any neglect in this respect.

The suffering to which the horses are subjected is an inevitable
accompaniment of the process of inoculation with its attendant
A reactions, and in the intervals between these a visitor to the stables
might well conclude that the horses looked well-cared for and in
good condition, at any rate during the earlier stages of serum
production.

Reference to text-books on bacteriology shows that there is
little variation in the effects produced on horses by the different
types of toxin used in serum manufacture. The following quota-
tions, while they refer chieﬂy to diphtheria antitoxin, would be

applicable with but slight modiﬁcations to other diseases. They
tell their own story, and need no further comment.

HOW THE SERUM IS MADE.

For the production of antitoxic serum horses are injected with
gradually increasing doses of bacteria or toxin, or toxoid, derived from
bacteria, two or three times a week. Later they are bled from a
vein in the neck, and the serum separated from the solid con-
stituents of the blood.

In Hewlett and McIntosh’s Manual of Bacteriology (Churchill,
1932, p. 294) we read :—

“ Individual horses vary in their susceptibility to the toxin,
so that care has to be exercised with the earlier injections.
The injections are given subcutaneously over the shoulder,
and produce a local swelling with some rise of temperature
and general disturbance, lasting two or three days. When
this has passed away the inoculation is repeated, a larger
dose being administered provided that the reaction due to
the former was not too severe.”

“ The doses are increased till as much as one litre of the
toxin may be injected for a single dose.” (1)

However, “ long experience has shown that when toxin alone
is used for immunization, many horses are killed notwithstanding
very cautious increase of dosage.” (2)

 

 




IMMEDIATE EFFEGTS OF THE INJEGTIONS.

The immediate effects of the injections are well described in
Experimental Bacteriology, by Dr. ‘W. Kolle and Dr. H. Hetsch,
of Frankfort (3) :—

“ In order that the animals even when restless may do as
little harm as possible by kicking, they are put in the stand

' . which consists of four padded walls which are fastened

by iron rails to strong cemented wooden posts . . . . If large
quantities of liquid are to be injected, it is advisable to
suspend the animals by means of slings so that the acute
reaction may not result in an accident. If the horse is
unconscious after the injection, it may then be slowly
lowered to the ground without being injured.

“ Acute reactions always occur when the animals are
injected intravenously with large quantities of bacteria or
toxins, and consist of dyspnoea, restlessness, copious
sweating, and loss of consciousness. If the animal falls it
frequently remains for ten minutes in a state of dyspnoea
and then slowly recovers.

“Further phenomena are exhibited at the close of the
injection period, namely : Restlessness, disinclination to
eat, shivering, rise in temperature, diarrhoea, and oedema-
tous swellings of the extremities, particularly of the joints.
These reactions, especially at the commencement of immuni-
zation, may continue over two weeks, but as the degree of
immunity is increased their duration will be less, ﬁnally
amounting only to three to ﬁve days. Nevertheless, it is
well to~ grant the animals some respite between the several
injections, especially when the weekly weighings indicate a
persistent decline.” (Chapter XII.) Death results in some

cases from protein shock.

“ It appears to be a good sign that the horse should react
strongly at ﬁrst, as such animals seem to produce in the end
a more highly antitoxic serum.” (4.)

A striking descri tion of the effects of the venom of a snake,
Notechis scutatus, injected into horses for the production of anti-
venom serum, will be found in the Medical journal of Australia,
March 16th, 1929. When sub-lethal doses were given :—

“ After some hours deﬁnite respiratory distress was
evident, the alae nasz' and the abdominal muscles working,
though there was little thoracic movement. The pupils were
somewhat dilated. Vaginal heemorrhage was seen in the
mare ...... Sweating was a very characteristic feature in
these animals.”

The post—mortem ﬁndings on all the horses revealed extensive
haemorrhages in various parts of the body : “ In all these animals
the blood was tarry . . . . the spleen was enlarged and almost black
on section, and the liver was intensely congested.”

   




 

DELAYED EFFECTS OF THE TOXIN.

“ Among the ill—effects that may follow toxin injections,
the most severe are paralysis, and death of the horse with
fatty degeneration of the heart and degenerative changes in
the kidney. A chronic malady sometimes intervenes in
animals which have undergone for some years continuous
courses of antitoxin-production . . . The animal soon becomes
ill and eventually dies with amyloid degeneration of the Spleen
and liver with hepatic and peritoneal haemorrhage.” (5)

“ Even with the greatest precautions acertain proportion
of the animals fall victims of acute toxaemia.” . (6)

COLLECTING THE SERUM.

“ A horse to be of value should after three months’ treat-
ment yield an antitoxic serum containing not less than 300
units per cubic centimetre. The required potency having
been ascertained ” (by inoculating guinea-pigs) “ the horse
is bled with aseptic precautions, the blood is allowed to

coagulate and the serum is separated and ﬁlled into sterile
bottles.” (7)

“ A large quantity of blood can be obtained at a single
operation from a horse (16 to 20 pints from a good-sized
animal) without ill-effects.” (8)

“Wadsworth (1937) gives the detailed record of a horse which
in 9 years gave .161 separate bleedings of about 8 litres. ” (9)

SPECIAL METHODS TO INCREASE PRODUCTION.

In some-cases the blood corpuscles, separated fro-m the serum,
are re-injeoted into the horse, “ which is thereby deprived only of
plasma and is consequently able to withstand more frequent and
larger bleedings.” (10)

“ Ramon noted an increase in the amount of antitoxin in the
blood of horses when sterile abscesses happened to form at the site
of the inoculation, and from this observation he was led to produce
artiﬁcial sterile abscesses by mixing the toxin with a tapioca pre-
paration. ” (11)

THE COMMERCIAL INCENTIVE.

That there is a strong commercial incentive to the manu-
facture of serums and hence to the wide—spread support accorded
in the Press and elsewhere to the practice of serum-therapy was
pointed out by Dr. George Wilson in his Presidential Address to
the State Section of the British Medical Association as long ago as
1899, when he stated that “ the whole bacteriological practice is
steeped in commercialism.” (12)

Drs. Bosanquet and Eyre, in their well-known text-book,
Serums, Vaccines and Toxins (1916 edition), also called attention
to this evil, declaring :—

 




“ A word of warning may perhaps not be out of place in
regard to the intrusion of this commercial element onto the
ﬁelds of bacteriological therapeutics.” (13)

A PROFITAILE PROPOSITION.

In the case of anti-tetanic serum, it is a matter of simple
calculation to show that, on a basis of one shilling and Sixpence
per dose of serum, a single horse would yield suﬁicient serum to
sell at the retail ﬁgure of £48,300. This statement, published in
the Medical ”/0er in 1932 has never been challenged.

In the case of diphtheria antitoxin, according to Dr. William
Park, of the Health Department of New York, in a reported
interview (14) :—

“ We had one horse whom we called ‘ Old Faithful,’ who
made Splendid diphtheria antibodies —— over $175,000 worth
of it.” .

SERUM MANUFACTURE IN WAR-TIME.

It should hardly be necessary to emphasise that during a war
the manufacture of serums is enormously increased in all the
countries involved. According to an article in the N ewcastle-on-
Tyne Evening Chronicle, October 2nd, 1939, the Pasteur Institute,
during the last war “ supplied more than 6,000,000 doses of serum
against various diseases in France alone, at least half of which
went to the allied armies ﬁghting on French soil. Another million
doses were sent to Italy; 18,000 to Serbia; 70,000 to Belgium;
40,000 to Rumania and 800,000 to the American Army and Red
Cross.

WHERE THE HORSES COME FROM.

According to the Secretary of State for War when replying to
a question in the House of Commons (July 25th, 1939), “‘ CAST
ARMY ANIMALS ARE, FOR TECHNICAL REASONS, THE
MOST SUITABLE FOR THIS PURPOSE, AND THE
PROCESS INVOLVES NO CRUELTY TO THE ANIMALS.”

How many horses, from the Army and elsewhere, are used
annually for the purpose in this country it is impossible to say,
since the Cruelty to Animals Act, 1876, does not apply to commer-
cial operations such as the production of vaccines and serums (15),
and hence no Return is made to Parliament of the number of
horses used in the manufacture of serums.

The foregoing facts, derived from sources of unimpeachable
authority, should enable the reader to form a just estimate of the
suffering to horses entailed in the world-wide commercial manu-
facture of antitoxic serums.

 

w. IRVING, PRINTER. CARL/8L5.

 




 




 

 




