Enclosure No .3... .. to desoatch No 2’Q‘Ef Jilli’llh'

from the t‘num: v LL L-‘...) idnn l:

 

mmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmm'

“HUMANITY
MARTIN”?

FEE 1819'"
b ““3001!!!”va
Y murmur...”

 

ROBERT H. SPURRIER

ammmmmmmmmmmmwwmmmmmm
The Home of Richard Martin—Ross House, Co. Galway.

On May 26th, l922, a public meeting waséheld in one of the largest of London’s halls—the
Queen’s Hall—to do honour to the memorygand work of Richard Martin. The Hall was packed
with an eager audience, for this was the centenary celebration of the passing of the ﬁrst Act in this
country for the protection of animals.

One hundred years before, almost to the very day, on May 24th, l822, Martin had risen in his
place in the House of Commons to move the second reading of his Bill for the “ Prevention of the
Cruel and Improper Treatment of Cattle.” It was to prove an historic occasion, and yet he spoke
to a House well-nigh empty and to the accompaniment of jeers and ribald laughter.

Martin had met with very much the same kind of reception a little over a year earlier, when
he introduced for the first time to the House of Commons his Bill for the protection of cows, sheep,
horses and other cattle. A jeering suggestion by a member that asses were also in need of protection,
and should be included, was regarded by the House as a side- -sp|itting joke. Indeed it was greeted
with such riotous laughter that the “Times” reporter wrote “he could not catch particulars
of his (the speaker’s) remarks owing to the noise and laughter which prevailed.” Another member,
in ridicule of the Bill, said that he would not be surprised to ﬁnd, if it passed the House, someone
bringing in a Bill for the protection of dogs! “And cats!”, commented yet another member,
anxious to make the idea of the Bill appear more fantastic still.

On this occasion the Bill was lost in the House of Lords, but when Martin, nothing daunted
by defeat and ridicule, returned to the attack in l822, although the House was still hostile and the
Bill was opposed by the Attorney-General on behalfofthe government, his earnestness and eloquence
prevailed. Only forty-seven members, however, out of a total of between six and seven hundred,
thought it worth while to vote either for or against it. Twenty-nine of these were in favour and

eighteen in opposition.

I

But although the Bill had got its second reading, it had to receive its third reading in both
Houses and the Royal Assent before it could be placed on the Statute book and become law. At
this stage Martin was advised, even by some of his friends to drop it; other members opposed the

 




 

Bill; Martin refused to give in. So it went forward and was supported in the House of Lords by Lord
Erskine, who presented a petition in its favour from certain inhabitants of London and Westminster.
It passed the Lords, was read a third time on July l8th and received the Royal Assent on
July 22nd, I822. It should be noted that Lord Erskine, when Lord Chancellor of England in I809,
had introduced into the House of Lords a Bill for “ Preventing Wanton and Malicious Cruelty to
Animals,” and supported it by a notable speech on behalf of animals which was afterwards published
in pamphlet form and sold at ninepence a copy. This Bill was passed by the Lords but thrown out
by the Commons.

This in brief outline is the history of the ﬁrst Bill for the protection of animals passed into law
in this country, and Martin’s Act, as it is rightly termed, is the foundation on which all laws passed
on behalf of animals since I822 are based. To us to-day, when there is so much feeling for animals
everywhere, when so much interest is shown in them that the number of books and papers pub-
lished on animal life is legion, when many societies are working for their welfare and, in addition
to the many laws that exist, new measures are brought into Parliament to protect them from one
or more of the many forms of cruelty and ill-treatment that, unhappily, still exist to-day—under
these conditions, the passing of Martin’s Act may not at ﬁrst sight appear to be a notable achievement.

But it was a great achievement, for in I822 it was a new and strange thing that a member of
Parliament should stand up in his place to champion the cause of animals. At that time there was
no public feeling against the ill-treatment of animals; no single society had been founded for their
protection; no books and papers were devoted to their interests; no laws existed for their protection,
and they had no rights. They were overloaded, overdriven, beaten without mercy, ill-treated in
many other ways and among the savage sports of the time bull-baiting was a favourite amusement
of the people. Moreover, Martin was not a young man at the time; he was 69 years of age and it
was in Parliament itself, as he pointed out in a speech made in I825, that “ the great indisposition
to put an end to cruelty to animals ” was to be found.

Martin was not content with getting his Act on to the Statute book. He wanted to see it
used as an effective instrument to prevent cruelty and bring about the better treatment of
animals. Within three weeks of its passing, he brought the ﬁrst cases under the Act into court.
They were against two men who had been taken into custody on his own information—one of them
for beating a horse with a whip in so violent and cruel a manner that it was wealed from shoulder
to tail; the other prisoner had beaten a horse he was riding to market for sale in a cruel and wanton
manner over the head with the butt and of his whip. Both men were found guilty and ordered to
pay a ﬁne. Martin brought many other cases into court and employed an Inspector; he introduced
other Bills into Parliament for the beneﬁt of animals, none of which, however, became law. In I824
he moved for leave to bring in a Bill “to prevent beartbaiting and other cruel practices ” and his

last effort in Parliament was on behalf of a Bill “ to prevent the cruel and improper treatment of
dogs.” (l826).

Martin’s humanity was not limited to his efforts to save animals from suffering. He was a man

of wide sympathies. One of the daughters of his second marriage, Miss Harriet L. Martin wrote
in I87I:

It may with truth be said that he was specially characterised by the universality of
his benevolence, by a large-hearted sympathy with suffering of whatsoever kind, not
merely ready to serve when appealed to, but quick to anticipate the request, to divine
the need. He could see, with his mind’s eye, hunger written in the face ofthat man standing




 

with his back turned to him, gazing into the cook shop; he would stop to listen to
the cry of the little child, and when he found that it had been deserted, did not wait to be
entreated to take it where it might get food and shelter—beneath his own kindly roof.

Other aspects of Martin’s character are presented by Mr. Wellesley Pain in his biography.
:He was, says Mr. Pain, “ a man of great originality, unlike his fellowmen”:-—

His character seems to have been a strange mixture of entirely opposite qualities.
He acquired a great reputation as a duellist. He had a singularly kind disposition, and his
great love of animals, and his determination to uphold their rights did not prevent him from
having an equal regard for his fellow men. He had a keen sense of humour, and though
he preferred people to laugh with him, he did not lose his temper when they laughed at him.
He had the courage of his opinions, and an ever-present desire to secure fair play for
those who needed it.

Enough has been said to show how well-merited was the title of “ Humanity Martin ” bestowed
upon the subject of this sketch by King George IV, and by which he became popularly known.
“‘ ‘ Humanity Martin.’ What an honour, and from such a sovereign,” exclaimed the chairman
of the Centenary meeting in the Queen’s Hall. That chairman was Mr. H. Baillie-Weaver, who
became the ﬁrst Chairman of the National Council for Animals’ Welfare Week (now known as the
National Council for Animals’ Welfare). This Council was constituted in I923 as the outcome of
the Centenary celebrations, and the Week has been observed in each of the following years and is
now recognised as a National institution.

Its purpose is to remind us of the needs and desires of those millions of other animals who
share the earth with us, and who have, perhaps, as much right to live and be happy, as we have
ourselves, since they are living, moving, feeling creatures to whom life, freedom and friends of
their own choice are dear.

BIOGRAPHICAL NOTES

Richard Martin, of Dangan and Ballinahinch Castle, Connemara, was born in February, I754.
He died at Boulogne on 6th January, I834.

The Martins of Galway were a branch of a very old family; an ancestor, Richard, was the ﬁrst
of the family to be brought up as a Protestant; his father’s ambition was that his son would enter
Parliament and work for Catholic emancipation. He was sent to Harrow and afterwards to a private
tutor, before going up to Trinity College, Cambridge. He left the University without taking a degree,
In order that he might enter Parliament. In l78l he was called to the Irish Bar. He was high sheriff
for the County of Galway, and colonel of its volunteers and its troop of yeomanry.

In appearance Martin was described at the time of the ﬁrst introduction of his Bill as:—

A man of middle stature, whose physique denoted more than ordinary strength. As he
stood before the House, already well ﬁlled by men whofﬁhad hurried down to Westminster
to scoff, it was evident that there was no Ievity in his application. He was earnest, his
eye and mouth giving no uncertain signs of courage and determination; dogged, and yet
withal captivating graces of manner and geniality of temper.

Published by National Council for Animals’ Welfare, WW6:WI

“'15.“. N . h

1 .I',’ .\_' ‘ . ~‘ :1; 2. .1 ,
gnu-gnu" ,, ". 1-; ’ ‘1‘ '

 




VV.P.L. 6876

 




