PARAKEET

Food:

Care:

Prepared parakeet food; grit and

bits of fresh vegetables (except
lettuce.)

Keep cage out of drafts; clean
cage daily; handle bird gently.

DISTRIBUTED BY THE AMERICAN
HUMANE ASSOCIATION.

S 1964 by The Humane Society of
2 City of Columbus, Ohio.

 




 

Fresh water; meat and cooked
vegetables; prepared dog food.

License once a year; exercise
and groom daily. Teach obe-
dience. Consult a veterinarian

if ill.

PUBLISHED BY THE AMERICAN HUMANE ASSN. - DENVER, COLD. BOZOI

 

 

 

RABBIT

FOOD

Prepared rabbit pellets,
lettuce, carrots, hay and
other grains.

WATER

Fresh water available at
all times.

CARE:

Protect from excessive
heat or cold. Keep hutch
clean and dry. If ill or
injured take to a veterin-
arian promptly.

The American Humane Association

 

 

 




A HUMANE EDUCATION PROGRAM
The American Humane Association

P.O. Box1266
Denver, Colorado 80201

 




PUPPIES AND DOGS

A UNIT OF INSTRUCTION
RH
PRIMARY AND INTERMEDIATE GRADES
prepared by
HUMANE EDUCATION COMMITTEE

1963

 

THE AMERICAN HUMANE ASSOCIATION
P. O. Box 1266
Denver, Colorado 80201

FORM 830- I

 




CONTENTS

I. Puppies

General Information
Selecting a Puppy
Planning for a Puppy
Handling a Puppy
Bringing a Puppy Home
Feeding a Puppy
Grooming a Puppy
Exercise and Rest
Training a Puppy
Housebreaking a Puppy
Caring for a Sick Puppy

II Dogs

General Informaéz'on
Feeding a Dog
Grooming a Dog
Exercise and Rest
Training a Dog
Licensing a Dog
Keeping a Dog Healthy
Responsibilities of a Dog Owner
Dog Safety
Uses of Dogs

 

 




PUPPIES

A puppy is a baby dog. The first few weeks
of its life the mother dog stays very near the
puppy to feed it and to give it warmth.

The newborn puppy cannot hear or see. It
cannot bark, but whines or cries when it is cold
or hungry.

The puppy’s eyes begin to Open when it is
about ten days old. It cannot see clearly at first:
but its sight improves as the puppy grows older.

As the puppy grows, its ability to hear in-
creases. As a grown dog, it will be able to hear
better than man.

A few weeks after birth tiny sharp teeth, called
milk teeth, come through the puppy’s gums. The
puppy has thirty—two teeth in its first set. The
milk teeth are eventually replaced by forty-two
permanent teeth.

Selecting A Puppy

The best place to get a puppy is from an ap-
proved kennel or breeder. Humane societies have
puppies and dogs for adoption. People occa—
sionally get puppies from neighbors or friends.
No matter where the puppy comes from, its
physical condition should be checked carefully.

A healthy puppy has clear eyes. Its nose
should not be runny. Check its teeth and gums.
Teeth should be white and gums firm.

A healthy puppy is usually alert and playful.
To be sure the puppy is well, take it to a vet—
erinarian for a check-up. A veterinarian is a
doctor trained to care for animals.

Puppies and Dogs Page 1

 




 

 

Planning For Puppy

Remind children before the puppy is brought
home that it is notatoy. The puppy is an animal
and will need love, care, and affection. In return
it will give loyalty and devotion.

Choose a draft-free place for the puppy’s bed.
A bed can be made from a cardboard carton. It
may be bought from a department store or pet
supply shop. The bed should be raised a few
inches off the ﬂoor. Put clean rags or a pad in
the bed for the puppy to sleep on.

The puppy will need food, water, and exercise.
Training should be started before the puppy has
a chance to develop bad habits.

Handling A Puppy

It is important to pick the puppy up correctly.
Improper handling may frighten the puppy or
hurt it physically. Place a hand under each end
and lift gently. The puppy should never be
squeezed or carried around its middle. It should
not be picked up by its legs, neck or skin.

Bringing A Puppy Home

When the puppy is brought into a strange
house, it will probably be frightened. Give the
puppy fresh water to drink. Put it in a quiet
place away from most household activity. The
puppy should not be handled more than necessary
until it has become familiar with its new home.

The ﬁrst few nights away from its mother, the
puppy may be very lonely. After the puppy is
put to bed it may be comforted by the ticking of

Puppies and Dogs Page 2

 




 

an alarm clock nearby. Sometimes a hot water
bottle wrapped in a towel and placed in its bed
helps keep the puppy warm and quiet.

Feeding A Puppy

In addition to having a ready'supplyof fresh
water the puppy needs food. If the puppy is less
than three months old it should be fed four times
a day; from three to six months old, it should be
fed three times a day; when it is six months to a
year old, two meals a day usually are enough.
After the puppy is a year old, one good meal a
dayisenough.

Feed the puppy a nutritious diet. Good com-
mercial dog foods contain ample vitamins, min-
erals, amino acids, fats and carbohydrates to
meet the puppy’s requirements, but choose com-
mercial food carefully. The contents of the can
are listed on the label.

Bones have no special nutritional value for a
puppy. Some bones splinter and may get stuck
in its mouth, throat, or stomach. Never give a
puppy lamb, pork, or fish bones. Chicken, turkey,
and other fowl bones are also dangerous.

Grooming A Puppy

A puppy should be brushed and combed reg—
ularly. Good grooming helps keep its coat shiny
and removes dead hair and surface dirt. While
grooming the puppy, check the condition of its
skin. Look at its eyes, ears, and nails for other
conditions that may need attention.

If a good grooming routine is established, it
should not be necessary to bathe the puppy often.

Puppies and Dogs Page 3

 




 

When a bath is necessary, dry the puppy thor-
oughly and protect it from drafts.

Exercise And Rest

Many people buy toys for their puppy. Hard
rubber or leather toys are good for the puppy
to chew. Toys made of plastic or soft rubber
should not be given to the puppy. Pieces of the
rubber or plastic may be chewed or torn off the
toy and swallowed. This can make the puppy
very ill.

The puppy should have a fenced yard or other
safe place, away from traffic, where it may run
and play. It is the owner’s responsibility to keep
the puppy from getting hurt.

The puppy should be allowed to nap whenever
it appears tired. Its bed should be away from
household noise and trafﬁc, so that its sleep will
not be disturbed.

Training A Puppy

Basic training consisting of housebreaking,
coming when called, and not jumping up on
people should be started as soon as the puppy is
brought home. However, the puppy may be
three months old or older before it begins to
respond.

Formal training in obedience should wait until
the puppy is more mature. An experienced trainer
can help judge the readiness of the individual dog.

Since basic training is usually started as soon
as the puppy is brought home, there are some
basic rules the owner should follow:

Puppies and Dogs Page 4




a§w

(1) Be patient and ﬁrm at all times.

(2) Show the puppy exactly what it is to do as
many times as necessary.

(3) Use consistent commands.
(4) Scold the puppy when it does wrong.

(5) Praise the puppy when it does well.

Housebreaking A Puppy

Housebreaking is usually the first training the
puppy receives. The puppy can be trained to use
newspapers or go out-of—doors.

If the puppy is to be paper-trained, several
layers of newspapers should be placed on the
ﬂoor of the bathroom, kitchen, or other con—
venient place. After each meal, after naps and
play periods, or if the puppy starts snifﬁng, place
it on the newspapers. Praise the puppy when it
performs. If it misses the paper, shame it im-
mediately.

If the puppy is to be trained to go out-of—doors,
establish regular times to take it out. As with
paper-training, the puppy needs to be taken out
after it eats, after naps and play periods, or if it
starts sniffing. If it does not perform after ten or
fifteen minutes, bring it in.

Caring For A Sick Puppy

The puppy, like any animal, may get sick. An
Puppies and Dogs Page 5

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

upset stomach or a minor illness may be helped
by keeping the puppy warm and quiet. If the
puppy doesn’t feel well for more than one day, it
should be taken to a veterinarian.

When the puppy is six to eight weeks old, take
it to a veterinarian for temporary disease pro-
tection. The veterinarian can advise which pro-
tective measures the puppy should receive.

DOGS

According to the American Kennel Club, the
puppy may be classified as a dog when it is about
eighteen months old.

The dog requires good care the same as the

puppy. Much of what is good care for a puppy
is good care for a dog.

Feeding A Dog

An adult dog usually eats one meal each day.
It enjoys having a variety of foods. Care should
be taken to feed the dog a diet containing pI‘OPer
amounts of necessary nutrients.

Bones that splinter should not be given to a
dOg- They may become lodged in its mouth,
throat, or stomach and make the dog ill.

The dog should have plenty of fresh water to
drink. Its water should be changed at least twice

a day.
Grooming A Dog

Good grooming is as important to the dog as

Puppies and Dogs Page 6

 




 

4 «k —. hywt

to the puppy. If the dog has been brushed and
combed regularly as a pup, it will be easier to
groom when it is an adult. Regular grooming
usually make baths unnecessary.

Exercise And Rest

The grown dog needs exercise to stay healthy.
It should be walked and given a chance to run and
play every day. VVlthout proper exercise the dog
may become overweight or unhealthy.

The dog does not need the same amount of
sleep as the puppy. However, the grown dog
should be allowed to have as much sleep as it
needs. Many dogs go to their ownbeds for naps.
Do not disturb a sleeping dog unless it is neces-
sary.

The dog’s bed should be large enough to allow
it to stretch and change positions. The bed should
be raised a few inches off the ﬂoor and protected
from drafts. Dogs are naturally clean animals
and for this reason, like having their beds kept
clean.

Training A Dog

Formal training should wait until the dog is
mature enough to train further. It can be trained
to do many things. The amount of training the
dog receives depends on its owner’s wishes. By
the time the puppy becomes a dog, basic training
should be well-established. The dog should be
completely housebroken. It should come when
called and it should not jump up on people to
greet them.

Puppies and Dogs Page 7

 




 

Licensing A Dog

In some communities every dog must wear a
current license tag. The license proves ownership
and helps identify lost dogs. Many lost dogs are
returned to their owners each year by humane
societies and societies for the prevention of cruelty
to animals. The societies are able to trace the
dog’s owner through the license number.

Keeping A Dog Healthy

Dogs are subject to ailments. Many serious
illnesses can be prevented if the dog has a regular
health check-up by a veterinarian.

Inoculation can protect the dog against some
contagious diseases. A veterinarian can advise
which inoculations a dog should have.

In some areas ticks or other pests make dogs
ill. A veterinarian should be consulted about
proper treatment.

Responsibilities Of A Dog Owner

The health and happiness of the dog depends
on the treatment its master gives it. A dog owner
has the responsibility to give his pet the best
possible care. Ifthe owner isto do this he should:

(1) N eVer give the dog soft rubber or plastic
toys that it can tear and swallow.

(2) Keep household poisons and pesticides
tightly €10sed and in a safe place.

Puppies and Dogs Page 8

 




 

(3) Do not leave the dog in a car parked in
the hot summer sun—even with the Windows
open.

(4) Feed the dog regularly.

(5) Keep clean, fresh water for the dog to drink
at all times.

(6) Brush and comb the dog regularly.

(7) Give the dog a clean bed protected from
drafts.

(8) Be sure the dog gets proper rest and exer-
cise.

(9) Take a sick dog to a veterinarian.

If the dog owner is to carry out his responsi-
bilities to protect his community, he should:

( 1) Follow all local laws for immunization and
licensing.

(2) Keep the dog at home or under control to
prevent dam age to other people’s property.

(3) Teach the dog not to bark excessively.

(4) Notify the proper authorities When a stray
dog is found.

Dog Safety

Children and adults are sometimes bitten by

Puppies and Dogs Page 9

 

 

 




 

dogs. Many dog bites could be avoided if a few
simple rules of dog safety were observed:

(1 ) When a strange dog is running loose, leave
it alone.

(2) Ask the owner’s premission before petting
a dog.

(3) When a strange dog approaches: (a)stand
still; (b) keep arms and hands down; (c)
talk to the dog in a quiet, friendly voice;
(d) wait for the dog to go away.

(4) A dog should be allowed to smell the back
of a stranger’s hand to become acquainted.

(5) No one should chase or shout at a dog.

Sudden mo vements or loud noises may frighten
the dog.

Uses Of Dogs

In addition to being a companion to man,
dogs also do work. The dog is intelligent, adapt-
able, and sociable with man. These character-
istics have earned it the title “Man’s Best Friend.”

Pre-historic man probably used the dog to
hunt and as protection against other animals.

The ancient Assyrians used dogs in war. The
Assyrians’ dogs were trained to attack men and
horses. In more recent times dogs have been used
in war for first-aid rescue work, sentry duty, and
for guarding stockades and ammunition dumps.

Seeing-eye or guide dogs are trained to lead

Puppies and Dogs Page 10

 

 




 

 

blind people. These dogs help people who have
lost their sight to lead near-normal lives.

Sled dogs are used in the Arctic regions. Sled
dogs have been useful in exploring the North and
South Poles.

Performing dogs appear on television shows
and in motion pictures. Each year some of the
animal actors are given PATSY Awards from
the American Humane Association for outstand-
ing performances (for Performing Animal Tele-
vision Star of the Year and Picture Animal Top
Star of the Year).

 

.2-

«it

BE Kmbto m MALS

Puppies and Dogs Page 11

 




 




CONTENTS

Kittens and Cats

Selecting a Kitten

Planning for a Kitten
Handling a Kitten
Bringing a Kitten Home
Feeding a Kitten
Grooming a Kitten
Exercise and Rest
Training a Kitten
Housebreaking a Kitten
Caring for a Sick Kitten
License

Belling a Cat

Scratching Post

Traveling With a Cat

N eutering

Responsibilities of a Cat Owner
Cat Safety

Early Cats and Their Uses
Breeds of Cats
Superstitions About Cats

 

 

 

 

 




KITTENS AND CATS

A UNIT OF INSTRUCTION
RH
PRIMARY AND INTERMEDIATE GRADES
prepared by
HUMANE EDUCATION COMMITTEE

1963

 

THE AMERICAN HUMANE ASSOCIATION

Denver 0 Hollywood 0 Washington

GENERAL OFFICES:

P. O. Box 1266
Denver, Colorado 80201

FORM 836-1

 




 

 

Kittens are baby cats. Newborn kittens are
helpless and depend on the mother cat for food
and warmth.

Kittens’ eyes begin to open eightto twelve days
after birth. By the time the kittens are three weeks
old, their eyes are wide open. At three weeks they
begin to crawl and toddle about and their teeth
start through their gums.

Between ﬁve and seven months of age the ﬁrst
teeth (milk teeth) are replaced by a set of per-
manent teeth.

SELECTING A KITTEN

It is usually best to start with a kitten so you
will have the fun of raising it. Humane organ-
izations and reputable pet dealers will help you
select a healthy kitten.

Choose a kitten that is playful and alert. The
insides of its ears should be clean and pink. The
kitten’s coat should be shiny and free from rough
spots. It should come when called "kitty, RWY”
Never accept a kitten with a "runny” or "driPPY”
nose or eyes.

Finally, take the kitten you have selected to a
veterinarian for a health check. Veterinarians are
doctors trained to care for animals.

PLANNING FOR A KITTEN

Because kittens are babies they need gentle
treatment. Children should accept the kitten as a
frlend who needs love and care. It is not a live
oy.

The kitten’s bed may be made from a card-
board carton or basket. Put the bed in a warm,
dry, secluded place. Provide a washable pad 01‘
blanket for the kitten to sleep on.

Kittens and Cats - Page 1

 

 




 

 

Sometimes kittens and cats refuse to sleep in a
bed prepared for them. If your cat refuses to
sleep in its bed, change the bed’s location.

HANDLING A KI TTEN

Mother cats pick up kittens by the scruff of the
neck. People should pick up kittens or cats by
placing one hand under the cat’s hind quarters
and the other hand between its front legs. Lift
carefully; use slow movements: quick movements
may frighten the animal. Kittens can be hurt by
rough play or improper handling.

BRINGING A KITTEN HOME

Kittens may be frightened when brought into a
strange house. They will miss their mothers,
brothers, and sisters. You can help your kitten
feel at home by giving it fresh water, food, show-
ing it to its bed and leaving it alone. Give the
kitten a day or two to become familiar with its
new home before you expect it to be playful.

FEEDING A KI TTEN

Cats like routine. Feed your cat at the same
place and same time each day. Kittens between
the ages of two and six months should be fed
three or four meals each day. An adult cat should
be fed once or twice each day.

Warm food to room temperaturebefore giving
it to the cat. If a cat leaves food, perhaps you
are over-feeding it. Throw away theleftover food
and give the cat a smaller portion next time.

Cats, being carnivorous animals, need to be
fed some meat. Some people feed their pets a
ﬁxed diet; other give them a variety of foods. It
is most important that the diet contain all the

Kittens and Cats - Page 2

 




 

nutrients needed to maintain good health.

Perhaps the easiest way to insure proper diet
is to use a commercial cat food. Choose the food
carefully. Read the label to ﬁnd the exact content
of the can. Make certain the food you choose con-
tains all the necessary cat nutrients as prescribed
by cat authorities.

Some cat owners like to leave dry food out at
all times for their petsto nibble. Dry food doesn’t
spoil and some cats enjoy snacks.

You may not think your cat needs water but
cats do need water and drink more than most
people realize. So keep a bowl of fresh water
available for it.

Many cats enjoy drinking milk. For aspecial
treat, add a beaten egg to the milk once or twice
a week. Do not substitute milk for water or
other food. Milk alone is not an adequate diet.
\‘K'hen milk is fed as a treat, it should be warmed
to room temperature. (‘Old milk can cause
stomach upsets.

GROOA‘IING A KITTEN

Brush your cat to remove loose hair and sur-
face dirt. ‘ This helps keep cat hair off furniture
and clothes. Short-haired cats need frequent
brushing. Long-haired cats must be brushed
daily. Brushing stimulates the oil glands 1n .the
cat‘s skin and makes its coat shine. Brushlng
also hel s )revent hair balls.

Kitteiis Iand cats should not be bathed unless
v or when recommended by a
veterinarian. \\'hen a bath is necessary, use warm
water and a verv mild soap, shampOO, or COtm't
mercial eat-cleaning product. Be sure to pro ec
it from drafts until thoroughly dI‘Y-

a

1K attens and (iats — Page 3

they are very dirt

 

 




 

 

EXER CI SE AND RES T

Both exercise and rest are important to kittens
and cats. Most of them will get enough exercise
in normal play. Give the kitten plenty of time to
rest; keep play periods short.

Kittens and cats love to play with toys. Pet
supply shops sell suitable cat toys. Most cats are
also happy with homemade toys. A cellophane
ball tied to a string, a spool, a ball, or a cloth
mouse ﬁlled with catnip‘will keep your cat happy
for hours.

TRAINING A KI TTEN

Most cats can be taught to walk on a leash if
you have enough patience. Training should be
started while the cat is young. Once a cat is
leash—trained it can be taken for walks safely.

It is difﬁcult to teach a cat to do tricks. They
do not learn to do tricks as easily as dogs do.
Most cats seem to feel this activity is beneath their

dignity.

H 0 USEBREAKIN G A KI TTEN

Kittens are not difficult to housebreak. They
may be trained to use a sandbox (pan) or to go
out of doors.

Regardless of which you choose, put the kitten
in the proper place after meals, naps, and play
periods. When the kitten forgets, putitin the box
or outside to remind it. Usually, a few days of
watchfulness are all that is needed.

If the kitten is not to be put outside, ﬁll a box
or pan with an ab sorbentmaterial. Acommercial
cat litter is best because it is less likely to be
tracked around the house than dirt or sand. It
also absorbs odors.

Kittens and Cats - Page 4

 




 

The box will be more attractive to the kitten
if it is kept clean. Keep it in the same place; the
kitten may not have time to hunt for it. '

CARING FOR A SICK KITTEN

If they receive good care, cats may live as long
as twenty-six years. However, even the healthiest
cat may become ill. Parasites, fungi, and poisons
are also responsible for some cat illnesses.

Protect your pet against cat enteritis and
rabies. These are very serious diseases thathave
killed many cats. Your veterinarian can give a
preventive inoculation against these usually fatal
diseases. He can also advise you about other
inoculations your cat should receive.

Parasites that attack cats include ticks, lice,
ﬂeas, and mites. Some parasites may be killed
by commercial powders. Read the label carefully
before using any medication on a cat. Powders
made for do gs can kill a cat.

If you are in doubt aboutasafe preparation to
use, check with your local humane organization
or veterinarian.

Fungus infections are usually seen on the cat’s
coat. These should be treated by a veterinarian.

Cats clean themselves by licking their fur and
feet with their tongues. Any soap, cleanser,
disinfectant, insecticide, fungicide, poison, or other
preparation containing creosote, tar, napthalene,
phenol, carbolic acid, creosol, or DDT is dan-
gerous to use on or around cats.

As cats wash themselves they swallow many
loose hairs that mat inside their stomachs and
form hair balls. Unless cats throw up the han‘
balls, they may become ill. Some cat owners
give their pets one or two teaspoons of unsalted
fat, cooking oil, or mineral oil once a week to

Kittens and Cats - Page 5

,3 $14




help the cat get rid of hair balls. Brushing
regularly reduces the risk of hair balls.

Kittens and cats are curious and sometimes
get into trouble. They may get into wet paint.
Do not use kerosene or paint solvents to remove
paint from your cat’s coat. Kerosene and most
paint solvents commonly used in the home are
poison to cats. Consult your veterinarian about
a safe method to remove the paint.

LICENSING

Some cities have laws requiring cat owners to
license their pets. All cats should wear a tag
bearing their owner’s name, address and tele~
phone number. Many lost cats wearing licenses
or identiﬁcation tags can be returned to their
owners.

The cat’s license or tag should be fastened to
a lightweight elastic or special collar. Stiff collars
may snag on bushes, nails, or trees and choke
the cat. An elastic collar will slip over the cat’s
head and do little if any damage.

BELLING A CAT

Some people feel that cats kill a large number
of birds. If you are afraid that your cat may be
a bird killer, a small bell attached to the cat’s
collar will give the birds warning when the cat is
near. The bell will also help you to keep track of
the cat. If you bell your cat, select a small, light-
weight bell. A large bell may get caught as the
cat climbs.

SCRATCHING POST

A scratching post is necessary for a house cat.
It allows the cat to keep its claws in trim without

Kittens and Cats - Page 6

 




 

ruining furniture or rugs. Make or select a post
tall enough to allow the cat to stretch itself full
length when scratching. The post should be on a
sturdy base so it will not tip over. Fasten a strip
of carpeting around the post and sprinkle some
catnip at the base to make it more attractive to

the cat.

TRAVELING WITH A CAT

A few cats enjoy riding; the majority do not.
Most kittens or cats become frightened and, if
let loose in an automobile, mayjump outan open
Window or interfere with the driver. On those
occasions when it is necessary to travel with the
family cat, a cat-carrier will simplify matters.
Carriers can be bought at department stores or
pet supply shops. In an emergency acarrier can
be made from a cardboard carton. Be sure the
box is large enough to allow the cat to ride
comfortably. Cut enough holes in the box (all
four sides) for the cat to have constant fresh air.
Fasten the top flaps of the box so the cat can’t
escape.

Let the cat explore the carrier at home before
it is used for travel. Ifit is familiar with the
carrier, the cat will be less frightened and easier
to manage.

NEUTERING

In the United States there are more than twenty-
ﬁve million cats. Humane organizations recom-
mend that all cats kept as pets be neutere
(altered) to prevent unwanted kittens. The neu-
tering operation is safe and can be performed on
male or female cats by your veterinarian.

Kittens and Cats - Page 7




Many people feel that neutered (altered) cats
make better pets. N eutered cats are more home-
loving and less likely to want to ﬁght or roam the
neighborhood at night.

RESPONSIBILITIES OF A CAT OWNER

The following safety precautions should be
followed in the home:

1. Screen all windows.

2. Do not leave tacks, pins, buttons, needles,
or small sharp objects where the cat can get
them.

3. Keep open cans of paint and varnish out of
the cat’s reach; they can make the cat very ill.
4. Most household poisons and insecticides
are poison to cats; use and store them carefully.
5. Keep the cat in the house at night.

6. If the kitten or cat is sick, take it to a vet-
erinarian immediately.

CA T SAFE TY

Children and adults are sometimes bitten and
scratched by cats. Practically all cat bites and
scratches could be avoided if a few simple rules
of cat safety were observed:

1. Leave stray, sick, or injured cats alone.

Call the local humane organization for help.

2. Do not handle strange cats.

3. When you pick your cat up:

a. be careful and gentle.

b. lift the cat slowly.

c. hold it securely.

d. talk to it in soft gentle tones.

Kittens and Cats - Page 8

 




 

 

If you do receive a cat bite that breaks the
skin, go to your doctor for treatment. Cats’ teeth
are small and sharp. Their bites cause puncture
wounds which should not be treated at home.

People who are allergic to cats should also have
cat scratches treated by a doctor. Otherwise,
ordinary ﬁrst-aid is all the treatment necessary,
unless the scratch becomes infected.

EARLY CA TS AND THEIR USES

Cats are carnivorous or meat-eating animals
and belong to the felidae family. Other members
of this family include the lion, tiger, leopard,
puma, cougar, wild cat, lynx, and cheetah.

Cats were among the ﬁrst animals domesticated
by man. The Egyptians had tamed cats as early
as 2400 BC.

Phoenecian sailors may have taken tame cats
from Egypt to other parts of the world. The
ancient Lake-Dwellers of Switzerland, the peOple
of China and India had domesticated cats.

The Egyptians used cats in their rites of wor-
ship. Many preserved bodies (mummies) of cats
have been found buried near the temple of Bast,
the cat goddess. The Egyptians made cat orna-
ments for necklaces and other jewelry. Cat like-
nesses were used to decorate spoon handles, vases,
and other objects used in daily living.

For over four thousand years, cats have played
an important role in the life of man. Cats have
been worshipped as gods and they have been
feared and hated as demons. The history of
cats and their inﬂuence on civilization is a fas-
cinating story.

The exact evolution of the domesticated cat is

Kittens and Cats - Page 9




unknown. Some authorities believe cats and dogs
had a common mammalian ancestor, the miacis.
The miacis appeared on earth about forty million
years ago. Modern Civet Cats of Africa re-
semble the miacis.

BREEDS

There are several different breeds of cats. They
may be classiﬁed as follows:
I. Long-haired
a. Persian
II. Short-haired
a. domestic
b. foreign
1. Manx
2. Siamese
3. Burmese

Persian cats have long, silky hair and bushy
tails. Their coats may be one color or include
different shades and combinations of grays, reds,
oranges, blacks, and whites.

Domestic short-haired cats are intelligent and
make excellent pets. They have many color
variations and combinations, some of which are
similar to the coloring of the Persian cat’s coat.

There are different varieties of foreign short-
haired cats. Most varieties are rarely seen in the
United States except at pet shows.

Manx cats are tailless. They have short front
legs and longer hind legs which give them their
Characteristic appearance. Manx cats have very
Soft coats.

Siamese cats have wedge-shaped heads and
ears. They are divided into several classes on
the basis of color. The Sealpoint is the most

Kittens and Cats -Page 10

 




 

common.

Siamese cats have dark face masks and ears,
dark feet, legs, and tails. Their body color is
pale in contrast to their markings. Siamese cats
usually have blue eyes.

Burmese cats have warm, sable-brown colored
coats. Their under parts may be a shade lighter
but there should be no other markings. Their
heads are rounded, ears medium-sized, and eyes
golden in color.

SUPERSTITIONS ABOUT CATS

Many superstitions about cats developed in
Europe during the Middle Ages. Cats received
a great deal of cruel and inhumane treatment
at the hands of ignorant and superstitious peOple.

In Europe and America, as late as the eight-
eenth century it was commonly believed that
witches could change themselves into cats.

The peasants of medieval Europe believed that
swallowing two or three cat hairs would cause
them to faint.

At one time people believed that cats had nine
lives and black cats brought bad luck.

The beliefs that cats could ”suck the breath”
of a sleeping person or cats had a worm in their
tails were old wives’ tales that became popular
during the middle ages.

The belief in some of the superstitions was so
strong that we still hear them today. Super-
stitions develop because of the ignorance and
fear of some people. Cats are not evil but, in—
stead, are very useful animals that have played
an important role in the development of civiliza-
tion.

Cats kept as pets become, in their own way,
devoted to their owners. There are many recorded

Kittens and Cats -Page 11

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

instances of cats saving the lives of people by
warning them of fires or other disaster.

Cats destroy rats and mice, saving millions of
dollars worth of food and grain each year.

 

Kittens and Cats -Page 12

 




SMALL ANIMALS
A HUMANE EDUCATION PROGRAM

THE AMERICAN HUMANE ASSOCIATION

P. 0. Box 1266
Denver, Colorado 80201

 




SMALL ANIMALS

MICE - RATS - HAMSTERS - GUINEA PIGS - RABBITS

A UNIT OF INSTRUCTION
for
PRIMARY AND INTERMEDIATE GRADES

prepared by
HUMANE EDUCATION COMMITTEE

THE AMERICAN HUMANE ASSOCIATION

Denver 0 Hollywood 0 Washington
GENERAL OF FICES:

P. O. Box 1266
Denver, Colorado 802m

FORM (3-15

 




 

 

CONTENTS

Selection
Planning

Mice and Rats
Feeding
Housing
Handling

Hamsters
Feeding
Housing
Handling

Guinea Pigs
Feeding
Housing
Handling

Rabbits
Feeding
Housing
Handling

Breeding

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

MICE — RATS — HAMSTERS
GUINEA PIGS — RABBITS

Tame mice, rats, hamsters, guinea pigs and
rabits are educational and interesting pets for
boys and girls. They are inexpensive to feed
and, compared to larger animals, require little
care. They are naturally clean and their cages,
when properly kept, are odorless.

A word of caution: Always handle mice,
rats, hamsters and guinea pigs carefully. If
they become frightened, they can inﬂict painful
bites. Animals that are not handled properly
or regularly may become vicious.

SELECTION

Select pets from young, healthy stock. Young
animals are easier to train and become adjusted
to a new home more readily than mature ones.

A reputable animal breeder or dealer will help
in the selection of a specimen suitable for a pet.
Healthy animals have smooth, glossy fur. Their
eyes are bright appearing and they react quickly
to sudden movement or unexpected noise.

PLANNING

Pet ownership is a responsibility as well as
pleasure. Humane organizations recommend
that no one adopt a pet until the needs of the
animal are thoroughly understood. Anyone not
willing to give the animal proper care and com-
panionship should never become a pet owner.

Small Animals - Page 1

 




 

MICE AND RATS

The American Mouse Club recognizes many
different varieties of domesticated mice. Color
variations and physical characteristics are used
as a basis for classifying mice into groups. Many
of the undesirable traits of wild mice and rats
have been bred out of the domesticated strains.

FEEDING

Pet mice and rats need a constant supply of
fresh water and they must be fed frequently and
regularly. Mice will die of starvation if they
are without food for twenty—four hours or longer.

The better commercial cages are equipped with
continuous feeders and gravity-ﬂow watering
bottles which allow the animals to eat or drink
when necessary. Feeders and watering bottles
may also be bought separately to use in home
constructed cages. Some pet owners make their
own feeders and watering bottles.

A continuous feeder may be made from hard-
ware screen shaped into a trough and fastened
to the side of the cage at a convenient height ‘for
the animal. The continuous feeder assures a
supply of clean, uncontaminated food.

The materials necessary to make a gravity
ﬂow water bottle are: a rubber cork witha hole
in it, a short piece of glass or copper tubing and
a pint bottle. Insert the tubing through the hole
in the cork, ﬁll the bottle with water, place the
cork in the bottle and attach it upside down to
the cage. The water will ﬂow slowly into the
tube as the animal drinks from it. Change the
water daily.

Commercial foods available

Small Animals - Page 2

 

 




at pet supply shops. Most of these foods contain
all the nutrients necessary to keep the animal
healthy. Small size kibbled dog biscuits may
also be used as a basic diet. For variety, supple-
ment commercial foods with fresh table scraps.

Mice and rats need good quality grains in
their diet to help keep their constantly growing
teeth trimmed to shape. If you do not feed
grains, give them a block of hard wood for
gnawing. '

HOUSING

Cages for mice and rats can be of the same
design and construction. However, the cages
must be large enough to allow their occupants
to exercise. All metal cages are available from
pet supply shops. A homemade cage of thick,
smooth hardwood and hardware screen is
equally acceptable.

One or two mice need a cage at least two feet
long, one foot wide and one foot high. For a
pair of rats, make the cage three feet long, two
feet wide and three feet high.

Three walls, the roof and the ﬂoor of the cage
should be solid. The front may be covered with
hardware screen to make Viewing easier. A
hinged roof and removable bottom tray will
simplify cleaning.

Furnish the cage with a nesting box for sleep-
ing. A box six inches square is large enough
for a mouse. A rat will need a larger box.
Fill the box two-thirds full of soft hay, cotton
or other soft material. The animal will arrange
the material into a nest for sleeping.

Put an elevated platform or upper ﬂoor in the
cage for exercise. Use an incline or ladder to

Small Animals - Page 3

 

 

 




 

connect the platform to the-cage bottom.

Extremes of cold or heat are harmful to mice
and rats. Cages must also be protected from
drafts and harsh light. Rodents are nocturnal
animals and instinctively fear bright light or
exposure to light.

Cover the bottom tray of the cage with saw-
dust, cedar shavings or other absorbent litter
material. To prevent odor, change the litter
daily. Once a week, wash the cage with warm
soapy water and change the bedding material
in the nesting box. Cages must be dried
thoroughly before the animals are returned to
them. Damp cages may cause the animals to
catch colds.

Mice or rats may be kept in a smaller cage,
a wooden box or a shoebox (if carefully watched)
while their cage is drying.

HANDLING

Pick up young mice bodily. A mature mouse
may be lifted by grasping its tail near the base
with the thumb and forefinger and then be placed
on the palm of your other hand.

To lift a rat, place the palm of your hand on
its back and lift with a firm, but not crushing
grip. Encircle the rat’s neck loosely with your
thumb and foreﬁnger.

Mice and rats can be trained, through repeti-
tion, to do tricks such as climb ladders, walk a
tight rope or travel through a maze. A treat or
bit of food may speed up the training process.

Given proper care, mice and rats rarely
become ill. Colds are usually cured by added
warmth and rest. If your pet is injured or
seriously ill, take it to a veterinarian for
treatment.

Small Animals - Page 4




HAM S TERS

Hamsters are small rodents six to seven inches
long. Their fur is dense, sleek and of a deep,
rich gold color with a gray undercoat. The color
of the belly fur ranges from grey to white.

Hamsters have elastic pouches on each side
of their heads extending back to their shoulders.
The pouches are for food storage only and are
not connected with the digestive system.

FEEDING

Diet is very important to a hamster’s health.
Hamsters eat all the grains and most fresh fruit
and vegetables. They also like commercial
pellets made for dogs, livestock, fowl and other
animals.

Hamsters need large amounts of protein.
Wheat, corn, barley, oats, sunﬂower seeds, soy
beans and all varieties of nuts are good sources
of protein for hamsters.

Use a gravity-ﬂow water bottle to keep clean
fresh water available at all times.

HOUSING

Hamsters are gnawing animals and musthave
sturdy cages. If wood is used in cage construc-
tion, check it often for damage from gnawing.
One hamster needs a cage at least twenty-four
inches long, twelve inches high and twelve inches
wide. A hinged roof and removable bottom tray
will make cleaning easier. Furnish the cage with
a ladder and exercise wheel.

Cover the bottom tray of the cage with saw-
dust, cedar shavings or other absorbentmaterial.
Change the litter as needed. Hamsters hoard

Small Animals - Page 5

 

 

 




 

 

food. Don’t allow greens or other fresh foods to
stay in the litter and spoil. Wash the entire cage

and its furnishings weekly with warm soapy
water.

HANDLING

Hamsters must be handled often to keep them
tame. Take care not to startle a hamster when
you pick it up as a frightened animal may bite
you or injure itself trying to escape. Show the
animal your hand when you start to lift it. To
Pick up the hamster place your hand over the
animal’s back and lift it gently into the palm of
your other hand.

Hamsters have no known disease of their
own. However, they are subject to the common
cold. When a hamster develops a cold, put it in
a warm clean cage. Feed it fresh water or milk
and a few drops of cod liver oil on stale bread
or rolled oats.

If the hamster seems seriously ill or is injured,
take it to a veterinarian for treatment.

GUINEA PIGS

Most guinea pigs are docile, sociable animals,
which makes them popular as children’s petS-
Two or more guinea pigs will live together
peaceably. They have a large vocabulary of
grunts, squeaks and whistles which they use to
communicate with each other. Many owners

learn which sounds are associated with hunger,
fear, etc.

FEEDING

Guinea pigs eat often. They need food and

Small Animals - Page 6




water available at all times. Water will stay
clean if supplied by a gravity-ﬂow water bottle.
Commercial pellets may be fed as the basic diet.
However, guinea pigs are herbivorous and in
addition to the pellets, need to be fed green leafy
vegetables once or twice each week.

HOUSING

Guinea pigs need a fairly large hutch (cage).
A wooden box (with hardware screen on two
sides) thirty-six inches long, twenty-four inches
wide and fourteen inches deep is adequate for
one or two guinea pigs. The hutch will be easier
to clean if it has a removable bottom tray. Cover
the tray with sawdust, cedar shavings or other
absorbent materials. Clean the hutch and change
the tray litter once aweek or more often if needed.

Guinea pigs need exercise to stay healthy.
Provide alarger pen for daily exercise.

HANDLING

Guinea pigs are usually tame, but will bite if
frightened. Show the animal your hand before
lifting it. Lift with both hands, one supporting
the heavy hind quarters. The guinea pig will
probably be content to sit in your hand for a
long period of time.

If the guinea pig appears ill or is injured, take
it to a veterinarian for treatment. However, if
its cage is kept clean, the guinea pig is not likely
to become sick. Rotenone powders will eliminate
ﬂeas and mites if they appear on the animal or
in the cage. An over abundance of green foods
may cause diarrhea. However, you should not
remove greens from the guinea pig’s diet entirely,
as they are important to its health.

Small Animals - Page 7

 




 

 

RABBITS
There are many tame varieties of rabbits from
which to choose a pet. Never cage a wild rabbit.
As a rule, they do not make satisfactory pets, nor
do they live long in captivity.

FEEDING

Rabbits are vegetarians. Their diet is simple,
but very important. Most farm and feed stores
sell prepared rabbit pellets that form the basic
diet. Supplement the pellets with lettuce, carrots,
hay and other greens. Rabbits are nocturnal
animals, and do most of their eating at night.
However, a good supply of fresh water and food
should be available at all times.

HOUSING

Make a hutch for one rabbit at least two feet
wide and four to six feet long. The rabbit may
be kept out of doors if the hutch is well insulated
and protected from wind, rain and excessive sun.

An all metal hutch is preferred over wood for
sanitary reasons. If a wooden hutch is used, the
inside should be lined with wire mesh. Rabbits
may seriously damage an unprotected wood cage
by chewing. ‘

To keep the rabbit healthy, the cage must be
kept clean. Change tray litter each day. Wash
water and food dishes with warm soapy water
daily. Once each week wash the entire cage with
warm soapy water. Dry the hutch thoroughly
before returning the rabbit to the cage. Rabbits
are very susceptible to dampness.

Small Animals - Page 8

4A 4 A~ 4 A~r~ -‘wﬂn. A

 

 




HANDLING

Never pick a rabbit up by its ears or legs.
To lift it properly, grasp the loose skin at its
shoulders with your right hand and slip your
left hand under its hind quarters. Hold the
rabbit close to your body to make it feel secure.

Rabbits do not often become ill if they are
kept in clean, dry hutches and their food and
water dishes are kept clean. The most serious
rabbit disease is called snufﬂes. A rabbit with
snufﬂes sneezes loudly and has a mucous dis-
charge from its nose. Snufﬂes must be treated by
a veterinarian immediately. Fleas and lice can
be controlled with a rotenone powder.

BREEDING

Humane organizations recommended that
animals kept as pets not be allowed to breed.
The small mammals discussed in this booklet
reproduce easily and in large numbers. If you
own a male and a female keep them separated.

 

Small Animals - Page.9

 




Free Teaching Materials

(Make requests on school letterhead—indicate grade level
and class size)

“Puppies and D0gs”—-Pre1:)ared unit for grades K-3 and 4-6.

Kits contain booklets, posters, bookmarks and other materials needed
to teach a unit on puppies and dogs.

“Kittens and Cats”——Prepared unit for grades K-3 and 4—6. Kits

contain booklets, posters, bookmarks and other materials needed to
teach a unit on kittens and cats.

“Pet Birds—Canaries and Parakeets"——l.’repared unit. for grades

K-8 and 4:6. Kits contain booklets, posters. bookmarks and other ma-
terials needed to teach a unit on pet birds.

A single cepy of the following pamphlets is available free of charge.

1.

“Care of Dogs”—-Basic information for the dog owner, including
feedlng. shelter, health, grooming, handling. training and control
of breeding.

“HOW to Build a. Doghouse"-——lnstructions for an outdoor dog-
heuse to assure protection for your pet.

“Care of Cats”—-—Basie information for the cat owner including
feeding, shelter, health, grooming, handling, training and control
of breeding.

“Care of Birds”———Informa.tion on birds commonly kept as pets,

includes comments on ailments. special problems. feeding. hous-
ing, etc.

“Care of Fish and Cold-Blooded Animals”———Information on
aquariums and care of lizards. chameleons, alligators. toads, tur-
tles frogs and other cold-blooded animals.

“Care of Small Animals"—-Cmnmon—sense suggestions for the care
of small animals commonly kept as pets. includiml‘ HUGE rats.
hamsters, guinea pigs and rabbits.

“Care of Wild Animals and Wild Birds”——-’While wild animals
are not. recommended as pets, this leaflet outlines a few emer-
gency procedures to be followed if injured wild life is found.

“Care of Horses, Ponies and Burros”—Condensed information on
feeding, grooming, riding, stabling and general use.

 




 

 

PET BIRDS

(Canaries & Parakeets)

 

 

 

A HUMANE EDUCAYION PROGRAM
The American Hamane Association
9.0. Box‘l266 '
Denver, Colorado 80201

 




CONTENTS

Canaries and Parakeets

General Information
Molting

Hearing and Eyesight
Selection of a Pet

Bringing Home a Pet Bird

Cages
Feathers
Preening
Feeding
Digestion
Diet
Canaries
Parakeets
Handling
Bathing
Training
Canaries
Parakeets
Toys
Keeping a Healthy Bird
History

COVER ILLUS
THE HUMANE 50¢le OF THE CITY OF COLUMBUS OHIO

 

 

 

 




 

 

PET IIRDS

 

CANARIES AND PARAKEETS

A UNIT OF INSTRUCTION
for
PRIMARY AND INTERMEDIATE GRADES
prepared by
HUMANE EDUCATION COMMITTEE

1964

 

THE AMERICAN HUMANE ASSOCIATION
Denver Hollywood Washington

General Offices:
P. O. Box l266
Denver, Colorado 8020I

Form G-4




 

PE T BIRDS
CANARIES AND PARAKEE TS
GENERAL I N FORM A TI ON

Canaries and parakeets hatched in captivity
can be educational and entertaining pets for boys
and girls. They are interesting to watch, can be
taught simple tricks, and are easier to care for
than larger pets.

It is not humane to cage wild birds for pets.
They are difficult to care for and usually die
within a short time after being captured.

Bird eggs require an incubation period vary-
ing from 13 to 17 days. Baby birds are blind
when hatched and are covered with soft down.
They remain in the nest for three weeks, during
which time both the mother and father bird. feed
them. Baby birds mature rapidly. They are
ready to be adopted as pets after they are six
weeks of age.

M 0L TING

At about two months of age, the young birds
go through their firstmolt, or shedding of feathers.
During this "baby molt” only the body feathers
are replaced. The ﬂight feathers (long tail and
wing feathers) are not molted until the following
season.

After the chicks have gone through the first
molt they are called unﬂighted birds. Following
the second molt, at which time all feathers, includ-
ing the long feathers of the tail and wing are
replaced, they are referred to as ﬂighted birds.

HEARING AND EYESI GH T
Birds have sensitive hearing. They have very
good eyesight. Their eyes are placed on opposite
sides of their heads, however both eyes can be

Pet Birds - Page 1

 




focused at the same time on a distant object. To
see things that are close to them, the bird must
turn its head to look with one eye.

SELECTION OF A PET

When selecting a canary or parakeet for a pet
beware of “bargain birds” or birds "on sale.”
Many times canaries or parakeets are priced
cheaply because they are poor specimens. Sickly
or weak birds require special care the average
owner isn’t prepared to give.

As a rule, bargain birds are not satisfactory
for pets because of their special needs and a short
life expectancy.

Healthy birds appear alert and respond to
sudden movement or unexpected noise. Their
feathers are bright appearing and smoothly
arranged. When-choosing a pet do not accept
a bird that appears droopy, lifeless or has skin
or feather discolorations.

BRINGING HOME A PET BIRD

Birds are easily frightened by sudden or un-
expected movements, loud noises, or the confusion
of a crowd. When frightened a pet bird will ﬂy
wildly about its cage in a effort to escape. Some
pet birds are seriously injured this way.

When moving the bird outside, a cloth over
its cage will protect the bird from drafts and from
being frightened by what it may see. Cover the
bird’s cage with a cloth if household noise upsets
it.

CAGES
A pet bird’s cage is its home. A cage 24 inches
long, 20 inches high and 14inches wide is a good
size for one canary or parakeet. Furnlshlngs
should include removable feeding and watering

Pet Birds - Page 2

 




 

cups, perches, a bird bath, and some type of toy.

A clean cage is necessary if the canary or
parakeet is to stay healthy. Once each week
wash the entire cage in warm soapy water. Sand-
paper or scrape the perches to remove droppings.
Each day wash the seed and water cups with
warm soapy water and re-line the ﬂoor of the
cage with clean newspaper. The bird may be
kept in a ventilated shoe box or smaller cage while
its regular cage is being cleaned.

The choice of a room in which to keep a pet
canary or parakeet is extremely important. Room
temperatures that are comfortable for humans
are suitable for birds. Sudden, or drastic temper-
ature changes, or exposure to drafts may make
the bird ill.

Do not keep a pet bird in the kitchen or other
rooms where there is a lot of family activity.
Cooking odors or gas fumes are very likely to
make a pet bird sick. Excessive noise from a
radio, TV, or family activity makes most cana—
ries and parakeets nervous. However, do not
isolate the bird completely. Select a bedroom,
dining room or other area that is warm, free
from drafts, excessive activity and noise.

FEATHERS

During the day the bird will hold its feathers
close to its body, giving it a sleek appearance.
When the bird sleeps it ﬂuffs its feathers out from
its body thereby increasing the dead air space
around its body which helps it stay warm.

Birds also ﬂuff their feathers out when they
are ill, when room temperature drops or at
other times when they need additional warmth.
When the bird becomes too warm, it compresses
its feathers to its body, holds its wings away from
its body and opens its mouth in an effort to cool

Pet Birds - Page 3




off. When you observe either of these conditions,
correct room temperature immediately.
PREENING
Preening is the grooming process that keeps the
bird’s feathers in good condition. When preen-
ing, the bird sorts through its feathers with its
beak, straightening and arranging them. The
bird coats its beak with a fatty material which
it gets from a small oil gland located at the base
of its tail. It rubs the oil on its feathers, feet and
beak to keep the surfaces protected.
FEEDING
Birds’bodies use food rapidly because they
have a very high metabolic rate. Abird’s normal
body temperature is 109 degrees Fahrenheit, its
heart beats 800 to 1000 times per minute and it
breathes 100 times per minute. Food and water
must be available at all times to maintain body
function. Birds deprived of food and water die

of starvation in 24 to 48 hours.
DI GESTI ON

The digestive system of birds differs greatly
from mammals. When eating seeds, birds re-
move the husk, and because they have no teeth,
swallow the seeds whole. The seeds pass down
the throat, through the esophagus into the crop,
which serves as a storage place. From the crop
the seeds pass into a glandular stomach where
the food is moistened and digestion begins. The
partially digested food then passes into the gizzard
or muscular stomach.

The gizzard contains gravel which the bird has
eaten and stored. The gizzard, aided by the
stored gravel, grinds the food into smaller parti—
cles. The small particles of food then pass out
of the gizzard for complete digestion and absorp-
tion.

Pet Birds - Page 4

 




 

 

Some bird owners do not realize their pets
hull the seeds before eating them. The owners
then mistake a seed cup full of husk for food.
Sometimes pets are unintentionally starved by
unknowing owners.

DIET
CANARIES

The basic diet of a pet canary consist of a
mixture of canary, millet and rape seeds. Fresh
green vegetables (celery, spinach, cabbage,
broccoli, and other greens) contain minerals and
Vitamins which may not be available in seeds,
and should be fed daily, as a supplement to their
diet.

Canaries need the vitamins and minerals con—
tained in conditioning foods, treat foods and song
foods. Cuttlebone and bird gravel are also
important to a bird’s diet. Cuttlebone supplies
minerals and gives the bird an opportunity to
keep its beak trim. Bird gravel, as explained
before, is essential for digestion.

PARAKEETS

The basic diet of the pet parakeet consists of
millet and canary seeds. Dark green vegetables
(dandelion, carrot greens, broccoli, kale and
romaine lettuce) contain vitamins and minerals
necessary to the birds’health and should be fed
once each day. Parakeets need gravel or grit
for complete digestion.

HANDLING
. The best way to hold a pet bird is palm down
1n your hand with your fingers gently encircling
its body, the wings folded back in their natural
position. Hold the bird securely, but not tightly

enough to frighten it, or make its breathing
difﬁcult.

Pet Birds - Page 5




When the cage door is to be opened, take the
necessary precautions to prevent the bird from
escaping or being injured. To protect your pet:

1. Close all doors and windows.

2. Turn off electric fans, mixers or other
appliances that are a potential safety
hazard to the bird.

3. Cover open ﬂames.

4. Check for other safety hazards.

Most birds that escape do so because of their
owner’s carelessness. Occasionally a canary or
parakeet can be recovered, but this does not
usually happen. Sometimes if the cage is placed
out-of—doors with the door left open, the bird will
return to the cage.

BATHING

Place a dish of water in the bird’s cage for
bathing. The bird may refuse to take a bath at
ﬁrst, but it should be given the opportunity to
bathe several times each week. If the bird does
not bathe within an hour, remove the water.

TRAINING

Parakeets can be taught to sit on your finger,
shoulders or head. They also learn to do other
simple tricks. Canaries can be taught some
Simple tricks, but they are not as quick to learn
as parakeets. You will need patience and under-
standing to teach both canaries and parakeets
to perform.

To teach atrick, startaregular training routine
while the bird is young. Hold training sessions
daily , one in the morning, one in the afternoon.
Keep each session short, not longer than ten
minutes. Reward the bird with ”treats” when it
masters a trick.

CAN ARIES
Most people who keep canaries do so because

Pet Birds - Page 6

 




 

of canaries’ natural singing ability. Most male
canaries teach themselves to sing. At six months
of age they are in full song.

PARAKEETS

Parakeets are natural mimics. They some—
times imitate the noise made by vacuum cleaners,
radios, telephones and other household appli-
ances. Because parakeets have this ability to
copy sounds they can be taught to "talk.”

Parakeets talk only in the sense that they
imitate the sound of a human voice. Parakeets
lack the ability to reason, therefore, they may
not put separately taught words or phrases
together sensibly. Only complete sentences or
phrases should be taught.

TOYS

Both canaries and parakeets seem to enjoy
having "toys” in their cages. Some birds amuse
themselves for long periods of time with balls,
mirrors or other playthings. Some owners feel
a mirror in a parakeet’s cage will cause it not
to talk. Other bird fanciers say the mirror does
not affect the parakeet’s talking.

KEEPING A HEAL THY PET

Birds need exercise and rest to stay healthy.
A cage of proper size will permit the bird to exer—
cise. Cover the cage with a cloth early in the
evening to allow the bird to get 12 hours rest.

Healthy birds, not in contact with other birds,
rarely develop contagious bird diseases. Proper
care and a nutritious diet will usually keep them
healthy.

Birds not receiving enough food, or poor
quality food, become listless and "droopy.” These
symptoms can be corrected by improving the diet.

A bird’s environment is very important to its

Pet Birds - Page 7

 

 

 




 

 

 

health. Extremes of hot or cold, drafts, paint
fumes, insect sprays or sudden frights can make
the bird ill. This type of illness can be cured by
removing the bird immediately from the source
of the irritant.

When the bird appearsill and does not respond
to added warmth or food, and there seems to be
no environmental cause for illness, take it to a
veterinarian for treatment.

HISTORY

Pet canaries are descended from a small green-
ish finch whose natural habitat is Madeira, the
Canary Islands and the Azores. Wild canaries
were ﬁrst caged over 600 years ago.

Parakeets (Budgerigars) more popular as
pets, are native to Australia. This variety of
Parakeet is also called the Shell Parakeet. Other
varieties of parakeets are found in Africa, Ceylon
and India.

About the year 1840 parakeets were ﬁrst
brought to England. Since that time, they have
become popular as pets all over the world.

Parakeets and canaries make good pets for
children and adults. Pet birds are a source of
pleasure to many people who, for one reason or
another, are unable to have other pets.

There are many other birds raised in captivity
and sold as pets. Parrots, love birds, mynahs
and various members of the ﬁnch family are all
fairly common.

If you plan to get a pet bird other than a
Canary or parakeet, you should consult a bird
authority about detailed care and feeding.

Pet Birds - Page 8

 




ON 1111334131... W W

93333333 E{,

i
333. Lauis 3. 3311”?E
301 3533

33333 E3, 333 331100

3333 333. 3311333,

I 33 so 3133 3333 you 333 33333333 33 33
30 3313 ﬂags on 333 333333331333. E 33333, 3E~
333333103 is needed, 333 33 E am having 3 3E3
edumdtlonal materiala 133 333 3133333313 33333“
$333 33 333 under 33333333 33333 33 333 313. .
133313333 with which E 313 333k. Lfte1 333 3333 }4
QV33 thia material van can 133 33 333w 33333 E3333
think would be most 3313331.

3333 of the 3331103313n3 0? 333 13331033
would 3130 33 useful: 3nd =3 E 33 33313113:
313 W611.

Lu

.333 the purpoae 1011' 3313 EE EEEE E EEEE

I believe 3 3333335313 11*“ 13 3: 3 ‘11 3123333 In-
stituta would be 333 33333“ 11333 11333133 £33 333 30 333,
anﬁ if 333 30313 like 33 3133 3 133331 33 333333333 13, 133
me know.1E33 3333333313 333E will 33 3333 333 33333 3333—
3333 sever.

Th3n33 33 3333 fey 3033 kind 30333E03 3f fE33 3311333
30 the 3001633 for 3n1331 {303333133 L3313133£33. E'3.3n-
closing with this letter 3 333 0E 331333131 333 33333 333
3 little note which is going 0113 at the 3333333 3133 33
333313 33313333 been writing 33 33. ;E3rh333 303 333Ed
3133 33 3333 333 3313331313 33 333 13331 333333333, 333 1E
33 3di333£31 #30313 333333, 33 33313 33 331133333 33 3333 3
(3 C5133.

3133 kind 3333333, 333.1033333 f03333d 33 3333E33 £333
333 further,

3i333313,

533133133 3333333
536333333

 




7‘!- ﬂ
“[1112.

JLLT'.:L+;LYL9
19ty

1..) O C

0
.. 1
‘ 2

a
. 1.3 L. 1.1

””1 great to
hum 8 Be 131" L: at’m €371 '13

L.

1.! 11711m

1121

(J .1163
terming

vour
99? 9‘19 u.L

:
W1

.3. ,.
‘\ ’t "’1.
a. X

114““,
oxtw man;
919 an§.b99n
of rthna-9 {

(“1+ 131201 (12.33.
19:199 tva‘”C“"

V 11

.9
O.

f‘ Y‘ 1":- ..
c1. ”' ,

1142.91
(

.

P“V"110P
99021

M99199;
R“- schoelﬁ
13993 993
crop 999.,

99001 991 E99
aLiV9, 300k 99~9V99 and

L IQ] t 5:31,.

RT . A
l"; 0 YM- VKJI
P188, 9099

§vk3$

._~
“I

)1 ('V l: r ”3""
£11.33 . :3 .. . “L

r 1L6“; “3"
in

I
:L

1-?“

ADC”:
Th9 worst 19
peaple

19:5

:399

$834?- “t1 11514. k} :1:
9rv919993.

f1" <11 (:1

9901
998 99? to
L111£3 L; 13761

- 7;“.
L ‘L- ._‘3
.,

990%
for 339921

SOCiet

ﬂm 721.31ij2' r701»? hf?
269?-

1‘ ...
Know,
snots

I ha VB 1119+ U
)9”: bv 199 9001.819
9 909991 of

December 7, 1999

V9 19:

999 Sti

thrv

. _ -9. ., ,,., a- .6:-
voa work on 999919

”3-. u

16.

P
(‘+

w _.
‘J C: L3 LWL’

Lb \L...‘

19999 con~

(‘23

19 3d ior “9.391999 and

y
:L“ 99 to prot9cLLahiM“&»&. 9%

Ci {*3

c: ’3': {9:1 r: :

L‘VLB - -... 9 “$9
QWW1F .‘ (3* .g-“, Q 10 fr
res emvab1-_ Thi mis-treatu
bui €Y1€ to the non-
Reservati.

0..

1.3.

r“ ‘I W-
L3 51'? «’1 13 5’1 0 1'1";
1.1 ‘ - '” ‘ '3
LQDHQ 9999

U
(“'-
1.4911631

-, . .L a... x
1 99999909
1 one of

I

1

L
4., N, K

6. 92.3.1“;
caving 901 imto theﬁ
95096 thrmvn ou_t of the
hat are
LV9S them
1
91; not

p,
0

g -,

”9‘.
$11.19;?
with

(1‘
.1; L. ;

C
m

V 5: I“ ,3' £7
'1

.‘ 'V‘
C} .'.. r.)

u 1

4., 9,

L..LL11:177

Cc ') ‘5 if s ”:9
CU"

AT]. 63? x.) L
to themm 9919;;

"27‘." T" m
( 9.1111": 1 L) .E

9:9

”0‘ 'Y" -.-

éQgS

919

 

sjarved

41.1”}. {iii-{3118.3

'1'", . Vt ”-t +1:
1. Q J. $3.". ‘1'; . LL.
(J

th9
"2.10 "C :13”
1“ 00 ki.

01' 9V9

9:99 £909
rust b

'-
,‘

9999 I
“Thers
019?;9

.1 i1? ‘1 'f“ {V (2 "r:

thi: wiﬁh love

(I,
K,

37‘ (.153 if . .

I‘l‘r-‘L

:1

v’»

CTN)

\.}CA. \1:

L336.

“1'11?“1'1

can to 9909019
,L .L .2. 9|
for 1999 90 Lht
1-51:1 TEAM. :3»;

9verﬁﬁm1€

 




7
/7/74
2" ON maimedﬂg/OM ,

‘71- 1’35”.sz -“v 1‘
\x W ‘ "

2 if ﬁ‘ 0" Fr ‘ a 1
*— l J

0 war W 77“" w

‘ m4
' 35)“: r014
J £22222» )3?“ 3W7? 2.2+
K/W 3%sz A“: 1, M4 ”Lu/3;
{:7 at” 2"; “Imam
WWWM/ }

£7.02: 4’“

 




>HUMANE EDUCATION:

By S. E. Hollins,

Elementary Principal
Escondido, California

With the explosion of the first atomic bomb at Alamagordo, New Mexico in
1946, the world had solved one of the major problems facing mankind. As a
result of the energy unleashed, man was now able to provide for all of his
physical needs, food, clothing and shelter. However, he immediately became
re—confronted with a much more serious problem, "How to live, cooperate, and
communicate with all of the peoples of the world." We had achieved control over
things and were now faced with the equally vital problem of living with one '
another. The problem becomes more complex as we are more and more a part of
an-inter-dependent society. The power of the common man for good or evil is

greatly increased.

We need to understand, as never before, the "why and wherefore" of human
behavior. We, as parents and teachers of young children, must accept a great
deal of responsibility for the development of the personality as well as for
the intellect.

It has been estimated that out of ah.average group of 25 elementary

school age children:

8-10 will lead fairly normal lives
2 will end up in a hospital for the insane

will be or become profoundly neurotic

4
4 will be or become deeply neurotic
4

will be or become mildly neurotic

I

An interpretation of these figures leads us to realize more and more the
importance of the guidance role of the teacher and all other adults with whom
children come in contact. We must provide examples and learning experiences
both in the home and at school which will help our young people to recognize

and emulate desirable qualities of an understanding human being.

In an article entitled, "Kindness is Where You Plant It", in the magazine,

"Voice of the Voiceless", Rose Marie Pae, a fifth grade teacher, points out:

 




"The education of the heart should have its inception in early childhood.
It is then nourished during the school years and reaches maturity during
adolescence. I am of the opinion that the early years from four to ten are
the most receptive in the life of the average child. And it is particularly

during this stage that humane education should be stressed.

Children should be taught that kindness and mercy to fellow human beings
and animals are virtues of true manhood and womanhood, and that they are a
vital part of growing up."

"I emphasize in my classroom that cruelty is a destructive force and
that it leads to stunted character. Compassion is stressed as the greatness
of humanitarians such as Saint Francis of Assisi, Florence Nightingale,
Abraham Lincoln and Henry Bergh and many others. Young students are very
receptive to comparison and if you draw their attention to some great
person of the past, they are eager to imitate.

I try to instil into the hearts of my young pupils love for all life.

I believe this merciful attitude for all living creatures is far more
important than the mastering of the three "R's".

It is not only a question of opposing cruelty to animals, it is also
the means of leading our youngsters to that ethical state which is so
necessary in our civilization today if we are to build a kinder world.

Extending mercy to the voiceless helps the student build sound character,

for the humane pupil of today with the proper training and example will

eventually become the noble citizen of tomorrow.

There is a perennial nobleness in eXtending compassion and pity to
humans, and to the voiceless creatures of our world. I fervently believe
that kindness to the so—called "dumb" brute is the beginning of true
morality.

Humaneness, this precious and sorely needed condition of the human

heart, readily grows in places where it is planted."

The public and private schools of America and throughout the world would
do well to recognize the signs of our times. They must realize the value of
training the heart as well as the intellect, and this must of necessity be
accomplished in the formative years. Our kindergarten and lower primary
grades must begin to develop organized courses of study designed to provide
children with first hand experiences in humane education. Plants and animals
must become more a part of the classroom so that children can learn the need
for kindness toward and care for all living things. Who knows, perhaps the
development of a kind and understanding relationship on the part of children
toward animals could lead one day to the same type of feeling toward other
peoples, -- a goal that our nation as well as the world could pursue with

diligence.

FRIENDS OF ALL LIFE P.O. Box 182 Vista, Calif. 92083

 




\VZ.\A\ erxy
Xmak j.

JQZK «Si. N

$(N\t\r In

. X
.\.X..\_(I\ AVWC rX.\

(Kgmnjtm‘ “XX \ UV ) “#ka F \ Xxxﬁn

X

.X . X , ‘ x . m 1%;
. \ \rHD\ ,.r\x.l\ )\( CC
ﬁkk a «X? .\ r X 9 .

 




5" “5/
/L5“"/‘L J‘L’f‘: WIML.“ . y

”W. WWW

‘\

I\

r“ X J: 651” (IA/W?

. w
’v ) /

4/ éJ/W/ﬁfb’vf I '

.,, {\j/ VL (Z .. c)"/h’$‘ W’bdlj

’ * 5 t  
5;
LvameL. (,3ch LLC.<U 1,.

,.- / , ‘ ,
0 }? nu, Vw’vﬁ'f/ Vlail— c wac

0N
+ M555; Maj
d W); {LL

25p mJ5

{Lo

'\/"// 0“
i/ 7 ’

Mbnmﬁg <7” WLL’ gram/Luv , 
:1 «wk/51 «f, WVL; cm W

”WA/a] éiLé-f/L “(M/W-ﬁwg. 01

, w Wk.
LL Lax“ 5L ”IL/V v37 (J w :57

W W mer CL
wiJ’W/é -/ (JM ’

CA a WZ/uvw L.

 




kw if m” W5“ (gm Mama dag/k
L’ﬁmb/ {ﬂﬁpm‘

 




gre -

Father Anthony Fedell
Holy Name College SBowﬂgle

Needs slides of animals and literature for

speaking engagement?? To be used in conjunction
with publications PRAYERS FROM TEE ARK AND CREATURE PRAYERS

V Told that AWI would be the best group.

 




Hovember 12, 1969

ﬂies horothy ﬁeneon
on 18h
Lincoln, how.ﬁempehire

Deer ﬂies Heneon,

Thohhe so much for your response to my letter
about the possibility of your devoting efforts to humane
eduoetion. I think your idea is a good one - that is,
the collecting of quotations on the protection 0‘ animals.
I don't think an anthology such as it would be possible
to obtain funds to print could contain whole books, how~
ever. Such hooke'would have to stoma on their own and
are already available. Whet is needed is new material
for use by the echoole, and an anthology, if skillfully
selected for materials which.were sufficiently broad in
scope and from sufficiently different sources to justify
the publioetion of the anthology, might well be of interest.

I am sorry that l have not read “$11 God's Creatures,"

but I do receive the bulletins sent out by Sister Serephim
and have enjoyed many items which appear in theml I
question, however, whether they would be well accepted in
many schools. have you had any experience along this line?
If animal welfare funds are Spent for a publication to be
distributed free on request to schoole,it is clearly imp
portant to consider whether or not there will be requests
and whether the material will actually be used in claes~
rooms. Your own experience would be a very helfpul guide.

when I firet Started in humane work I was often told
that schools refused flatly to use the humane literature
offered to them. I soon discovered that the reeson.was
that the materials hed not been prepared for schools and did
not fit in_with_euy part of the ourriculum.ﬁhetever we do
must, of course, be prepared with this in.mind so thet we do
not waste time or money. Do let me know your further thoughts,
In the meantime, I hope you will start collecting quotations
that could be used. ﬁre you acquainted with a delightful
anthology publisheo a couple of years ago in.Euglend?

Kindest regards,
Sincerely,

Christine Stevens
Secretary

 




'é‘ EUTTTT T WGTTIHT, T?“ Tpﬁﬁ Tﬁﬁ 3T TITT;TéT

Ty TTT‘TTTTTT TTTTTTT

ﬁTilTrTn TTTT T TTTTTTT TTTTTTTT TT TTiTTlT, and TT TT TTT TTTTTTTTT TT TTTT1TT TTTTTTTT
cf TTTTTTTT'TTT TTTiTT TT TTTT ITTTTT TTTTTTTTT TTT TTT TTT11TT Tad TTTT TTTTTTTT TTTT TTT
ahilTrTT ThTTTTlstu AT TTT TthT TxpTriTTTTT TTT kindly TTTTTTTT TTTTT TTT TT TTTTTTT TTT
in TTTT TimplT TTTT TT TTTTTT TTTT Tea Tingry TTTTTZ TT TTTTT TT T TTTTTTT TTT, TT TTTTTTTTT
dnvalapT Tn TTTiTTde Tf TiTT TTTTT 1T T TTTic TTTT Tf ciTiliTTT TTTTT TTTTTT. TTT TTTT TTT
this TTTTlT TTT.TTTTTTTTTTT pTiTT of TTTT TT TTTTTTT TTTTy TTTT TTTT TTTTTT iT TTT TTTTTTT‘TT
the TTrlT.

TTT TbTTT 0f :3T nTtT TTT TTTTT Ty TTT iTTiTiTTTT TTTTTTT TTTT TTTTTTT TT TT« ’TTTVT TE
human beings inﬁrﬁaﬁﬁg TT Sﬂiﬁmﬁifiﬁ‘ﬁﬂwﬂr TTTTTTTTT TTT TT TTT TTLTTTT TTTJT ﬁﬂrr”qﬁﬁaﬁlﬁk1;
Thrinks. IT iT TTTTTTTTT TTTT TTT cTildrTT TTTTTTT QT in ThT 1WTG’T TT TT:; TT TTTTTT. TTT;
can 3Tarn Thraugh TTTTy TTTTTiTTCTT TT TTfTiTTTTTT TTiTTlT To TTTTTT T9.

Many TTachTTT TTTTT tﬁ1§3mﬁ TTT mﬂehithﬁy'valﬂﬁ The VTricTT TTTTTT TTTTTTTTTTT TTTNITTTT
TTpplde Ta TTTT by TTTTTT Tm TTTTTVT TTTTTTTTTTTTT TiTT TTTTT I TTTT TTTTTT. TTM” ”ﬂ TT Tut
tTTT TothiTT T1TT TT TT TfchTTVT in cTTrTTTTT TTTTETTTTTT TTTT TT TTTTT TyTT TTT TTTTTTTT
while They TTT ITTrTiTg.

TTTT TTTrTaTh TTT TTTTTTTTT Ty TTTTTT T. Tnngia TTTTTTT Tf TTT TTTTTTTT TTTTTT HTTTTTTTT
Saciety; TT JTT TTTp3v*iTTrTT :“.Tﬁ T5 TTT TTTT TTTT TTTT Ti TTT Tnmatﬁw Ti T bﬁwﬂﬂﬂ Tfiaﬂm TTT
TVTP TT sad T d0: 0T TTTTT TTT TT T Thilda Ty TTT TTTT Token, TTTTlTT T6 TTTT‘ .T TTTTT fTTTT
T TTTITTT To TTTTTT TTTTTTT TTTTT TTTTTT, far TTTTTTT, w; TTTTTTTT

yTGTlT TTT Th9 TTT TrTviTTle TTTTT T lTTiTT far ngTTTTT TTTTTTT TT TiTTTTT TTTT.

CETT 31;; TT 13 at ;:‘?FTTT TTTTTTTTTT TTTT TT TTTTTE TTTTTITTT TTTTET TTTT TTTT TTTTTTTTTTTTT T0
TTT TTTTTTTTTTt—TT TTTZTTT or TTTTTTTT TTTiTudTT.

TTT TTTTTTT 1T T TTadﬁr in TTTTTTT TdTL TTiTT, TTT TTCTTTiTiTT Tf TTT TTTTTTTTTT TT Pﬁw
{ETTT TV in TTT STTT TTTT 2? TTTTTT TTTT ngislatiaT TTTTiTTTg tTT TTTTTTTT TT TTTTTT TTTTTTTTT
1T TTTiT TTT1TT TTTTTTT. QTTTTT TTTT TGITTTTT TTT 1TTT 3T3 TTTTT T TTT TTTTT3M§ GT TTTTTT
pTiTTﬁTTTT TT 1TTTTTTT TTyT. ET such TTTTTTy TTTTTTTTT Ts JTTTT TTT iﬁﬁuaB-i T3 TTTTTTTT
far :TT TT:TT TTTT Tim gs TTT.T T‘TTTT 1333 TTTTTT TaadnTTT TT Txlmalﬁ :1T TT imTTTT’ﬂt TTTT 1T
TTT TTT gTrTT. T ?Tm ﬁmTT TTTT TTTl‘i TTTTT T3 ThT Japan TTTTTl TTTTTTT TTTTTTT TTT,T TTTTTT

frag ?TTTTT Tanganyika TTTTCT Tf TTT TTyal TTTiTTy TTT TTT TTTTTTTTTT :f TrTTTTT TT TTTTTVT

 

 




(2)

u‘»ﬁ ﬁawgg ﬁX§F®3$ 9k; ggirit af kimdnaaa and ﬁgmgaﬁhy 3% wali ﬁﬁatﬁﬁ ﬂy ﬂy“ ﬁlbarﬁ

”ﬁg ﬁﬂﬁﬁ maad a haundlaaﬁ atbia$ that @111 inelmda %h@ gaimﬂgg ﬁgﬁg.m Eﬁ is

in ﬁhia apirit @f Rﬁveranma fa? Eifﬁ ﬁhat thg ﬁgmﬁng ﬁﬁumgtiﬁm Ematﬁﬁata 3f ﬁfriﬁﬁ w&3 féﬁantly

farmﬁd. ﬂagray hﬂmﬁ, xm ﬁgﬂgﬁgﬁ tﬁg giﬂﬁngﬁg glam 1% flouriahimg. ﬁach'ﬁramaﬁ bakea an
amimal mamﬁwwracmmmw, @gaV$r, ﬁhigmumkgmwbut thay aﬁamd far kinﬂnasﬁ ta aii $ﬁimaia. The
Kinﬁmmsa Slab Wag faunﬂad bamgaﬁe a? ﬁhw ﬁemanﬁ.@f tha whildran 0f Haw Erumgwick‘wbam ﬁhﬁy’
Egarmﬁﬂ, tﬁrwugh imfﬂrmatimn gaﬁharad in ﬂag cmurﬁe af 3% aﬁaay aaﬁﬁwst 0n tha prataaﬁiﬁﬁ mi
amimglag haw graatly amimgls néaﬂAamah hwlp. Tﬁﬁ gmiﬁﬂ back far legdﬁrs Haw baing pﬁbliahaé,

may grava maaful in tha ﬁniﬁad ﬁtﬁgas tgg. {ﬁag gagangig ﬁﬂvacata, ggcﬁmbar, 1§§1.)

 

?h@ Fiﬁld Rﬁnﬁﬁrﬁﬁ ﬂﬁ $ﬁ£11$h Cﬁildrﬂm'ﬁ club, $8 in aantamﬁ with gamm fiftaaa thaasand
asheal chéldrang ‘ﬁith threg ragalﬁr ﬂask}; $1a8$ﬁ$, mantﬁly'autings§ p L,gr gamyj ﬁlnfarmﬁticﬁ
Ewremu” Eiaraﬁf Qf amimgl'mmmkﬁ and mmnthly film 3hmwings, thg £393? 1% Vgry aeﬁivg. é Sgﬁcial
feﬁtwyﬁ i3 thﬁ Fatﬁ ﬁarnar rug far mﬁﬂtaily ratardad,chilﬁraa in Fcunﬁgin Haggitgl, sigh
mﬂm%mr$ makﬁ ﬁwm evaning aﬁtgndamc$s at th& hesgital @ach waek a3 W$31 as ﬁuuday maraimgs.

ﬁgmgn% ﬁduﬂﬁtiﬂﬁ thrﬁﬁgh.clu§ activitiaﬁ tiés in wail with Eumana taachimg in tha elaaaw
rﬂmm. Eara avg game notag from a ﬁaasﬁar whe'vigitg alaggrooms far tha 333.Frangigg0 gygg.
”Tﬁﬂ mhildran ar& antﬂuaiagtic...Tegchera $33 that the children appiy ﬁhﬁﬁﬁ kimdly feelingg
ﬁm mwah athar...?%%r@ avg alwaya a few chiEdren aha $0 as: have ygﬁg. 1 nevar mrgg tﬁgm.te
bgﬁ ﬁﬁﬁi? pﬁrﬁaﬁﬁ tﬁ ﬁat thaw Gag, bﬁﬁﬂﬂﬁﬂ ﬁhera may 3% canditians at hemw ﬁmkinﬁ it
unﬁasirablﬁ ﬁa havg 03%. Instagd I gaggsst syacial praj¢ctsz caliecting gictaygg anﬁ ﬁtgyieg
a? $mimal$ fram.nawspggarg ﬁe ﬁat in agrapbcaks or vi$iting tha 296, thﬁm gaimg t0 thﬁ liﬁrary
$§ %ﬁrraw bmmkﬁ @hﬁﬁﬁ ﬁhﬁ amimaig tﬁﬁg arﬁ maﬁt intgreﬁtad in. ﬁhan a child haﬁ just a
gmiﬁfigh 3 try ta mmkﬂ Eim.faal furtunata, and.§aimt mat ﬁhaﬁ §iX evan a fish saw ﬁe a pet

19 trﬂataﬁ aw aha. ﬁne Kitﬁla Kiri talﬁ ma about bar fonr~yaar~sld golﬂfigdg Jaw i3
reg: yet. Sham E faaﬂ him.l gut ﬁﬁa faeﬁ an my fingﬁr and paﬁ my fiagar on ﬁg? Qf thﬁ
watar ﬁﬂﬁ “3 Qﬁmﬁﬁ my $9 ﬁaﬁ3’ E Straﬁa ﬂag ﬁeldam ﬁala...‘?raat gaﬁa gné $31 athﬁr animals

.3 wmulﬂ Eika $9 ha ﬁrﬂaﬁad if yam haﬁ baen warn & pet er gay Gzhar kinﬁ mf animal.‘

 

-' iﬁ Earqa 3Eﬁﬁﬁ?ﬂ @ﬂ a piﬁﬁa $f carﬁbmaré 0a wﬁich I pa$ted caiarad pictaras of

u.

animalag amﬁ T *~»%V y :xsw ~ ﬂ czilﬁ valuataer ta read it to the claaﬁ, ﬁhan E 33k the

entirg 01835 - ; _ W ;n umiﬁmn.“

 




QQQ QQQQKQQKQ Q
(i’rQ QQ QQ tQFChﬁrn5
ﬂiﬁﬁrﬂ
3 V QﬁQ QQ QQQ EQQQK QQQQQQ QQQQQQy QQQQQQQ QQQ QQ Ver rQQQrQQQy3
QQQQQ QQQ QQrQ QQQ QQQQEQQQ Q? QQ'Q syn sw *k.;;‘=:iw. QQQQQ QQilQQQQ
an QQQOQQQQWQQ QQ r_'? - 34;;3 ». KQ"IQ' :3; &:Q~;3 QQQQQQQQQ QQQQ QQQQQ QWQQQA,
QQQQQQQ Q
thQr QQQ PQQQ~QQ
iQ rQQQiR3 LQQQQQQ.QQ QQQQ ch3d QQQQQ 37:»ugf new «MQQQQQni
ThQ r1nc*“7n“ an QQQQQ “QMJQQ ““CQQQQQ
QQQn QQhQ 3QQQ* Qt QQQEQ QQQQQQ; . 33;“
much "Q'Q'QQ {311:1} QQQ‘QQ M
er3 briQf Qthy 3%: Q I 131IQQQQE fay 3
ané ”QiQQQQQ QQQ {,Qu»Q VﬁQﬁ QQQQQQQQ 33 QQQ
Qiﬁng QQQQ QQQQ.
*QQQQQQ QKCQZ"Q iﬁliﬂuwﬂp iQ QQ hQVQ QQmQ QQEQ QQQ fr
the QZQQQQQQQ. QQQQQQQQQQ 0Q QfQ QQQQQ QQQ QQQQ QQQ QQ QKQQQQQQ
ﬁrm} 3:? mg: him 331-st :JE’i'Q'iQ $530? 2 1;} hi :3 32533 QQ .1? 3'1 3Q?
QQ thlQrQaQ5 QQQQ
QQQQQQQQ QQQQ QQQQ in QQQQ QQQQ QQQQQQ QdQQQ QQQQ in QQQ QQQQ3
leQQ QiQiQ Q Q QQrQ3 erQ Q? QQQdiQQd QQQQQ up grQQQ G§§Grtﬂﬁ§ﬁiQ$ fQQ c~

Q

in QQQQ? thQral Qurrmunﬁimqs, QQQ for QQQQQQQimg QQQ QQerQQ QQQ Qﬁﬁrﬁééh QgQQ

1

eQer QrQQr QQQQnQiQt QQQQ ﬁQMﬁﬁnbY9$ﬁ QQ5 QQQ rQQQQ QQ QQd QQQQQQQQQQ iQr iQEf QQQ
QQQQ3 QQQE3 QQQVQQQQ QQQQQ bQQQQ

Ls

ﬁf QQrQQQQQQ QQQQQ QQQQ in QQQQQQQ QQQQ QhQnQ QQ QQ;:Q QQriat QQQQQQQQQ QfQ QQ; QQinity

thcQ Qight QQQQ, Q‘.%'~ Q ‘3 =wiQ 3Q QQQQQQQ in QQQ cl QQQQQQ Q3 QQQ. QQQQ QQQ QEQQQQ QQQQ

«ﬁﬁﬂﬁiliSE‘d EQQQQ

QQQQ QQQQQQQQQ QQ QQQQ Qmall QQQQQlQ in QQQ QQQQQQQQQ QQ QQQQQQQPQQQ 1.~Q

)—
pm

I

QQQQQ QQtritiQQ. TQQ Eraﬁ$ﬂmﬁ QymgQQQQ Qf ‘QQ uanrQQQQQQ 033313 .Q QQQ QQQQ QQQ Ff”ﬁﬁ Q3

the QQQEQQQQ Q.,” 3. i3 6,Q,5QL3 ,«; *«Q» QQQQQQQ QQQ Q QQ‘QQQQQ QQQQ. TQQQ QQQy QQll QQ

 

 




m}... a“ .
ﬁg‘wcgé.

%~
L1,-;\‘

@513 lady“???

f“$~-»

‘1'»?

Q
»‘ -§:»M-

?

:2

‘1‘“? 1
Z" q:

.V
" 4
)3

"v 1-,“,
3m€r
.I ‘4 J -.
~W ‘h
,4; as
La {’3

(

1w»

:3;

l
s m
4

"W"?
:0
.. .5. 31.3“,

., ,

2M

.A 9»
g
6f": *5“

[4
ﬂ ,
..

\‘P
“"A
, 4 ,
' 'a“ Iva
l'

‘5 14%

51‘:

}.§

",5 I
a»
a}

11"!

WE; t1 t -
‘ > vﬁ‘ l
"9‘
”3 ,.,_
vim-m a

a".
4, ..

mm “3.

1345‘. #I?
w’ﬁ

«

. 33.32523

”i

as. .
.-::‘a a”
kg?“

1

2-!

if
k ‘4

3:."

t
1»

{3:3 3-.

.73.: 33% .~
1 -k- w "arr,

.,_3T3.£§ '

0»
WM;

' 3}";

 




1. Viv-’6‘
. a C ‘

WOMEN’S s. P. c. A. .

May the door of this Society be wide
enough for all who need human un-
derstanding and care; yet narrow
enough to shut out cruelty and neglect.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of Pennsylvania

 

3025 WEST CLEABFIELD STREET, PHILADELPHIA, PA. 19132

SEPTEMBER, 1969, VOL. I, No. 10

Humane Education Featured at the Animal Summer School

' . ¢8¥33’§'“"-‘?"””‘5'. ' “4‘
E Mrs-19 mréﬂﬂw“

, . . «3’ Q35;
wirmwﬁ,i-WW“~‘W~' , ‘ '

For many years the Women’s S.P.C.A. of Pa.
has opened its doors to vacationing boys and girls
living near the animal shelter. We invite the chil-
dren to attend our annual Animal Summer School,
which has become a neighborhood tradition. Daily
classes combine a subtle mixing of fun, arts and
crafts—and humane education. Each year the
school has been conducted by Mrs. G. Frank Lever,
Secretary of the Women’s S.P.C.A. of Pa., and Dr.
Ethel Wolff, director of education.

This year the Animal Summer School had an
excellent program and thirty young humanitarians
enjoyed all the sessions. They received expert in-
struction in pet care with shelter animals assisting;
Chief, our collie mascot, performed his bag of
magic tricks to teach safety with dogs; the opera—

Dr. Ethel Wolff (left) and Mrs.
G. Frank Lever discuss a guinea pig
with young friends. An informal
atmosphere contributed much to
the success of the Animal Summer

School

¢:%(<€¢>yx~‘t-. a... t m“

tion of the animal shelter was explained during
guided tours; and the basic concept of kindness
to animals was reinforced through the use of ﬁlms
and by visiting guest speakers. Arts and crafts
activities featured making clay models of animals,
painting animal pictures, and the assembling of
animal scrapbooks.

Time passed all too quickly for our summer
visitors. On graduation day we proudly presented
diplomas to our students as their parents watched,
and then, of course, refreshments were served. A
good time was had by all, and we feel the children
beneﬁted not only from the instruction they re-
ceived but also from their personal contacts with
adults that love animals, too.

 

 

 




 

llAlIJlﬁlllglllLLJl

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

. THE GUARDIAN

SEPTEMBER, 1969

 

Animal Summer Selma] Scrapbook

"I

 

There’s no better way to learn about kitten care
than with a real live kitten.

F

 

Chief, our magic dog, used a number of tricks
to teach children to be kind.

   

Assembling animal picture books was one of
many arts and crafts activities.

ﬂ

 

THE GUARDIAN
ROBERT C. HUDSON, Editor

Issued monthly by The Women’s S.P.C.A. Of Pennsyl-
vania, 30th & Clearﬁeld Sts., Philadelphia, Pa. 19132.

The Women’s S.P.C.A. of Pennsylvania

Life membership $50.00
Annual membership $ 5.00
Associate membership $ 1.50

Junior membership . . . $ .50

Ambulances and Agents
Call BA 5—4500 for removal Of sick, injured, un-
wanted or conﬁned stray animals, and investigation
of complaints. Twenty-four hour emergency service.
Clinic Hours
30th and Clearﬁeld Streets
open daily 10-3:30, except Sundays.

open 24 hours a day, 7 days a week to receive
emergency cases.

315 South Chadwick Street
Hours 1—3 p.m., except Wednesdays and Sundays.
Veterinary Staff

DR. ROBERT]. LERCH DR. CARL COUSINS
DR. DAVID HOPKINS DR. ALFRED KISSILEFF

LEA BACH Student Veterinarian

 

 

 

l' , ,1

 

Combing a dog for the ﬁrst time was serious business
for this young lady.
Teaching children to properly care for their pets 13 ,a

continuing humane education program at the Women8
S.P.C.A. of Pa.




SEPTEMBER, 1969

THE GUARDIAN an}.

 

 

II
“I
I
II
V

_Jl

 

 

 

 

H

 

 

 

 

 

 

3am to /ace wifA crow/{y . . .

Our Agents Prosecute

The humane ofﬁcer is an unusual man for many
reasons. He knows animals and the basic care they
need in the home or on the farm. He knows what
to do in an emergency for his knowledge and ex-
perience will save the life of an animal. And he
knows cruelty when he sees it, regardless of what
form it takes. Sometimes he is sickened at the
sights he sees, for he is a man of compassion—but
not afraid to prosecute to correct a wrong.

Month after month our agents turn in their re-
ports on their inspections and investigations. We
are sorry to report there are always prosecutions
for cruelty to animals. Their case histories are
documented evidence of man’s inhumanity. We
won’t show you the pictures they take during the
course of preparing a case. A brief statement
should sufﬁce.

There was the horse in F airmount Park, shoe-

 

 

 

of Federala
assume thatt
ingm 'of Ha
'* T : Only: f

 

 

 

 

 

less, its back raw from a misﬁt saddle, and being
galloped at break-neck speed. For the rider and
stable owner . . . prosecution!

In Downingtown we found an adult German
shepherd dog without shelter, tied to a stake, and
dead from starvation. Prosecution!

In the Pocono Mountains we will prosecute a
roadside menagerie owner for gross neglect of his
helpless charges. Filthy cages, slimy water con-
tainers, and inadequate food are among the items
listed on our complaint. We hope a conviction
will close forever this disgrace.

The work of our humane ofﬁcers is an important
function of the Women’s S.P.C.A. of Pa. We are
proud of our men. They do an excellent job. With
your help and support they will continue, day after
day, always ready to help animals—and to pros-
ecute, if necessary.

 

 




 

 

THE GUARDIAN SEPTEMBER, 1969

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

if/ a rierwl aéou our acloption deruice

The animal shelter at 3025 West Clearﬁeld Street unwanted, and homeless animals.
is open for the adoption of pets every day except Our ambulances and humane ofﬁcers are ready
Sunday, 10:00 am. to noon, and 1:00 pm. to for any emergency at any time.
4:00 pm. The Women’s S.P.C.A. of Pa. is a full service
We are always open to receive sick, injured, humane society. May We help you?

 

 

THE GUARDIAN BULK RATE
T0 . ' WOMEN’S S.P.C.A. OF PA. U. S. POSTAGE
3025 West Clearﬁeld Street P A | D
GoNTlNUE ‘ Philadelphia, Pa. 19132 Philadelphia, pa,
/ -—— Permit No. 338|
YOUR T s Address Correction Requested NOH-Pmﬁ’f 0'9-

surpm in,

Have you considered remembering
us in your will? Should you do so,
please remember that every humane
society is a separate corporation. Our
corporate title is Women’s Society for the Pre-
vention of Cruelty to Animals of Pennsylvania. . ,q ..
Our address is 30th and Clearﬁeld Streets, Phila- MI‘S: Clll‘l Stine Stev €113
delphia, Pa. 19132. - SOClety for An. Pr. Leg,

Contributions made directly to us are the only §.,Oﬁi80x 3719 ; George t30111111 Station
ones from which we will beneﬁt. Won’t you as 'ngton, D. C. 20007

make this your society?

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




First Edition ”From our visits with teachers and adminis—
December, 1968 trators, and as a result of tne pilot study,
we have established that there is a need
For the teaching of humaneness in the schools,
and that it is feasible. a..The cooperation
we have received From educators, the response
we have evoked From students, teachers, and
curriculum experts...shows an astonishing
eagerness For this kind of program. "
(Dr. Stuart westerlund, Assoc. Prof. of
Education, George Washington Univ., 1966)

RESGURCE
Ewes” m HUMANE mmestms

THIS GUIDE IS TO BRING TOGETHER AS MUCH PERTINENT
AS POSSIBLE TD AID SCHOOL TEACHERS? LIBRARIANSg AND INTER—
DT HLT- C IR RRDCURINC MATERIALS HELCTUL IN TEACHING CHILDREN
THE ETHICS CE KIRDNESS TC ANIMALS AND REUERENCE FDR ALL LIFE. MUST

MATERIAL S DESCRIBED HEREIN ARE IN THE PRINT MEDIUM, WHILE OTHERS

ARE AUDIO/VISUAL. SUCCESTIDng COMMENTS? AND INQUIRIES ARE WEL-

romeo. ADDITIONAL pares, TO BE STAPLED TO THE BACK, wILL BE AVAIL—
2 LE AS soar ~ L-igt uATERIALS A E pusrissrog EXAMINED, AND

1 :RCL"C FCR 'JWR ﬂté T WRITE TO THE ADDRESS BELOW.

 

ngoiied By
Larry L. Miller
Humane Information Office
P.D. Box 144
Rootstown, Ohio 44272

..

 




Title/Author Style Capsule Comment Obtainable From

.v-uu. ".w-w-n -w~ M..¢ -w- u... ‘ #44... ~_‘ . .V, w wr-...-(,nwa — ~—

v
......._w-.‘ ‘ -..- 4-.

 

.L—s xv, um «Kr —.

A Christmas Written especially For Order From The Kindness Club,
play the Kindness Club. Being Waterloo Row, Fredericton9 New
used in schools as Far Brunswick9 Canada9 for 35¢ per
away as Hobart? Tasmania» copyo

Ideal For kids of ages
8 to 12.

 

 

“You and Your Dog” Booklete 16 pp. asy styles worded for Order From: American Humane Eds:«
Color on cover the young. Story set in oration Society, 180 Longwood
only (green 0: elem. school setting° Avenue9 Boston 15, Massachusetts
black) 81" x ”Care of dogs” moralo
5“. Many cartoon-type illus~
trations. Large print9
good paper. ;

 

'Opper elementarya Could Order from: American Humane Ed—
be read and shown to ucation Society9 18D Longmood
younger: Trans late d From Avenue, Boston 15, Massachusetts
original Danish versions\
Excellent photographs
show progressive matur—
ing of baby blackbird,
from :irsJ day. Oiaryw
type copy:

An introductory biog- Doubleday, 1939. S2‘SO.
raphy and picture book
For younger childre
Emphasize s these values
and elements: honesty?
patriotism9 Fri endlines
risourcewlness9 Ulorl<
Htion step mother:
~bf0thers 19X SlStGrgg
'ureliance9 bravery9
'ce to others? simw
' tacty kindness
Grades 3 &4.

 

 

J

U) (D U) ‘7’
,__.. +1 w (r. U

will (D (“PF
93 D (L ”3‘0 (1}

WT]
O

 

 

 




Obtainable From

 

Title/Author Capsule Comment

 

"Song of the Sun“ Kindergarten to 3rd. Macmillan, 1952. $2.25.
(from The Canticle Illustrated by E. Brton
of the Sun) Jones. Charmingly writ»
St. Francis of Assisi ten introduction about
Francis' lite and fri
Friendship with birds &
animals. Beautiful color
pictures of God‘s gifts.
the sun, moon9 wind.
water. fire, & earth,
with little child & pets

enjoying them.
Hardbound book. Editorials on humane $é.25 payable to ”Mary Mitchell
129 pp. philosophy. Easymto- Humane Fund," 180 Longwood
read print. Varied subu Ave., Boston. Massachusetts
jects. Line drawings 02115. (Mass. SPCA.)
throughout.

 

Magazine. Usum Well illustrated. ~rieF Published by Massachusetts SPCA
ally about 20 articles. Older childret & the American Humane Education

= p. per issue. youth. adults. Society, 180 Longwood Ave..
ﬂonthly. Boston. Massachusetts 02115.
$3.00 per year. checks payable to
”Our Dumb Animals."

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Magazine. Usu— Nomholdsubarred, hard» $2.00 yearly, payable to "Voice
ally about lﬁlﬁl line humane magazine. of the Voiceless." Box 1740

per issue. considered the best. Foy Station. Los Angeles, Cali—
Articles, photos. , Fornia 90017.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

- i l_.__.,_.. _.~_~l___,-_-_.. .Miw» _._...._.7_. __.__...,.,_

 

{flet. : Excellent glimpse into Request enough copies For your
white. the lite of Famed nat~ whole class From The Educational
uralist of the Midwest Foundation of the Desert Protec-
and west. John Muir tive CoUncil. Inc., Box 33.
(1BBB«1914.) Banning. California.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




Title/Author

Style

Capsule Comment

-—~u-— 4-- .1 _.

Obtainable From

 

w

"Animal LiFe"

a pp. 8%" x11".

‘ "Weekly Reader"’

type Format.Two
ink colorsthed.

A. . .4-

Uery basic, lower grades
use. Line drawings, puz-
zles, quizzes, pet hob-
bies, personality sket-
ches oF animals, draw—
ing animals. Line art
by Will Rannells.

Published monthly, Sept. through
May. Order From Humane Society oF
the City oF Columbus, 85 East Bay
Street, Columbus, Ohio 43215. 25
or more copies monthly, 3p each.
Single copy, 10¢; 2 to 9 copies,
7¢ each; 1O to 24 copies, Sc each.

 

"To Young Animal Lovers"

 

i

3 very terse pp.
8%" x 5%" size.
Black ink on

‘blue paper.

Squirrel photo
on Front.

Tells children tactFully
oF the pains oF steel-
trapped Furbearers.
Tells them how to be-
come junior CAHT mem»
bers and to receive 4
newsletters a yearLCon-
tains story that helps
kids to internalize an-

Canadian Association For Humane
Trapping, 167 TraFalgar Road, Oak-
ville, Ontario, Canada. LeaFlets
probably not more thab 1¢ each.

 

 

 

 

a” imals' pain:

”You anJ Your Pet" 4 pp leaFlet. A poem, basic needs oF Order From The Kindness Club, 252
Printed in blue, common pets listed,cunz Waterloo Row, Fredericton, New
black, on white, For pet owners. Little Brunswick, Canada. Cost, probably

. sketches. About 3rd not over one or two cents each,
grade ideal. teacher's copy Free. '

"Friends Instead oF Fure’a pp leaFlet, Conveys identiFication “Order From The Kindness Club, 252

 

 

printed beige &
black on white.

} about Grey Owl,
‘I diam.

 

and empathy with the
Furbearers. Stories

the In-
Comments on why
not to trap.

'trations.

Line illus-

Waterloo Row, Fredericton, New
Brunswick, Canada. Cost, probably
not over one or two cents each,
teacher's copy Free.

 

 




Title/Author

Style

Capsule Comment

— 0.1.1 4. .lﬁ,‘

Dbtainable from

3" 1—1- _—, x. rr—v‘y' a--."
.o—v-v

 

”Tne Best of Friends”
Charlotte Baker

Hardbound book.

Very strong humane theme.
Humor. Childre en ta ke on
resoonsibilitaes in Fase
of adult apathy° Junior
Literary Build Selection.
Needs to be in school
libraries. Ages, about 9
to 13

David McKay Comoany, Inc,, New

York City, New York. $3.50.

 

Magazine. Usualm

ly about 12 up.
8%" x 11”

size.

1kids, book reviews,“

Quarterly publication of
The Kindness Club. Trea-
sure of short essays,'
line drawings, photos,
items contributed From

15¢ a copy,
wrong?

verse° At
can you go

*1...‘

Subscribe From Mrs. J.
Green, 13 Brant Avenue,
Credit, Ontario, Canada.

early, includes postage.
issues.

Alvan
Port

75¢
(Four

 

Har clbot nd book,

178 no.

to 13 Ada

bum

Ages about 9
venturous, cells nt
znane themeorju1tbor is
Nashington, D C. newsm
paper woman°
trationsc

1

Line illusu

:

Published by Cornwall Press,
Cornwallg New York, $3.25,

Inc.,

 

 

 

Front
covers
trated 2

Leaflet
& ljack

illus
_inside be or
'sy text, Dimena

c \‘Qs
$3.05"; '

1‘ X

 

3
ea”

“For very young children,

Very elementary style,
very basic message of
kindness, Reader is vi~
carious.

,
L‘

Itainable From

Published by
The Universities Federatic
Animal Welter e, 7a Lamb‘s Conduit
rassage, London, W.C. 1. Also ob-
Animal welfare In—
POO, Box 3492, Grand
Central Station, new York City,
\ork 10017. 3e ea., Free copy
sent to any

and obtainable From
on For

stitute

New

 

 

co: duct
and otbe r

O

U 33

33
D

'3 *1
C:
:7

:1.
[3 End l

H
[‘13
(‘1' ‘1

‘3‘} W m f")

(of Humane Education, a

IGrand

 

 

 

 

 

 

teacher requesting it.
Published by 811: nal institute
Div. of
The AntiuCruelty Society, 157 v.
Avenue, Chicago, Ill. 6061B.

 




Title/Author

- n.

Style

Capsule Comment

Obtainable From

 

 

 

‘w '

"Time Is Short and the

Water Rises"

John Walsh, with Robert

Gannon

Hardbound book.
224 pp. 19 cola
or photos, 22
monochromes, 2
maps.

The story of "Operation
Gwamba," the rescue of
10,000 animals From cer-
tain death in a South
American rain Forest.
"Gwamba" was a project of
International Society For
the Protection of Animals
Among many recommending
book, Sec'y of Interior
Udall, Newsweek, World
Wildlife Fund. The "0p-
eration" was Featured in,
Life Magazine, on Ty,
may become movie. Book
has moving human rela- |
itionships in a common ef—
Fort. Junior High through.
high school and adult.

E.P. Dutton & 00., Inc., New York
City, New York. 36.95. (Any book-
store will order. Ask about tea-

cher discount.)

 

 

“All

God's Creatures”

Sister Seraphim

I

Hardbound book.
226.pp. 8%“ x
5". Illustrated
with line draw-
ings.

The experiences of a nun
at an Arizona convent
with a Mexican burro,
goat, rabbit, dog, and
cats range From pity,
pathos, and hilarity. Inn
troduction by Joseph Wood
*Crutch. Highly recommend~
ed book.

”Dodd,

Mead, & 00.,
New York. 34.50.

New York City,

 

"The Schweitzer Album”

Erica Anderson

 

Hardbound book.
178 oversize pp.
27 Full color
photos, 170 in
monochrome gra-
vure.

An exceptionally beautie
Ful volume. "A portrait
in words and pictures."
Additional text by Albert‘
Schweitzer. Printed in
Switzerland. Letters,
uments, memorabilia on

Schweitzer, "reverancefor‘
life" philosﬁx& quotess.
Lambarene photos.

doc~

 

 

Harper & Row Publishers, Inc., 49
East 33rd Street, New York City,
New York 10016. $17.50. Published
in England by Adam and Charles
Black, London.

 




Title/Author

Style

Capsule Comment

”M”... .V .0. u- ”

Ubtainable From

 

.._>-..M—ux.—v,w ~

w.—

Hardbound hook
255 ppo IlluSa
trations by John
Pimlott.

‘thor, a naturalist and

The author’s remarkable
story of nature, courage,
love, and commitment of
her Family to a special
sway of living. The au»

iiilustrator, tells the
istory of Unexpected,
,their wildlife refuge in
New Jersey. IF you like
Sterling North, Gavin
laxwell, or Robert
Murphy, you'll like this
book, a selection of the
Christian Family Book
Shelf,

Published may 24, 1968 by m.

Evans and Coo, Inc., 216 East
49th Street, New York City,
New York 10017 (PLaza 3 6186).
$4.95,

 

 

 

Harooound booka

 

 

A children's book, but
not owe rwoimple reading.

 

fSixth, 7th, and 8th
grades about ideal. (Up—
-per elementary and jun—
Lior high.) Strong humane
theme, A chapter on each
ier oanoereo species (with
refer ence to extinction)o
wis e and very quota bl
uotation on the theme
a :ound on the initial
aoe of each chopte er,

A
5
p

Publisheo by Coward
$3 29.

 

 

 

 




 

Title/Author

Style

Capsule Comment

Obtainable From

 

 

 

"Dogs, Cats, and Your

Community"

Filmstrip oF 56
,color frames,
with 12—minute
'recorded narra—
tion.

Particularly good For
civic organizations,
women‘s clubs, church
groups. Stresses prob-
lems of the pet overpop»
ulation. Strong spaying
plea.

Order From Humane Society of the
United States, 1145 — 19th Street,
N.W., Washington, D.C. 20036. Rent—
al, 31; purchase, $5. Copies also
available at County Board of Edu—
cation Office and Portage County
Animal Protective League.

 

”Help At Hand”

Full color, 16
mm sound Film,

For adult groups. De—
scribes ideal relation-

Order From Humane Society of the
United States, 1145 - 19th Street,NNL

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

21 minutes. ship between humane so- WashingtOn, D.C. 20036. Rental, 35;
ciety and community; purchase, 365. ‘
proper adoption proced-
ures; humane education
of public; cruelty in—
vestigations; animal
rescue work.

”Meeting Anlm 1 Friends" Large, 8%" x 11" A humane education proj- Address inquiries about acquiring
Charlotte Zaker Mont~ paper—covered ect workbook, especially this helpful guide to Humane Soci—
gamerv workbook. SS pp. helpful in teaching ety of Nacogdoches County, 421 Rusk

young schoolchildren. FStreet, Nacogdoches, Texas 75961.
« Compiled by noted author

and animal welfare work—

er. For "workhorse” use.

Bookmarks bearing humane 8%" x 2%” on fOFFicial Kindness Club Order From The Kindness Club, c/o
message sturdy stock. bookmarks. Front reads, President, Mrs. Hugh John Flemming,

Red and black

 

on beige. Ap-
pealing raccoon
illustrations
on each.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ifriends to be kind,
éK.C. pledge and purpose
are on the reverse.

 

”The Kindness Club, Wot~
to: @e Kind} Tell your
too?’

 

252 Waterloo Row, New
Brunswick, Canada.

price.

Fredericton,
Inquire For




Title/Author

Style

L_

Capsule Comment

Obtainable From

 

The Teacher“

16mm Film, in

Full color.

Runs 30 minutes. Tells
simple story of a par~
tially deaf boy learn—
ing humane values

through his new beagle

BUDDY-

Order from Humane Society of the
United States, 1145 - 19th Street,
N.W., Washington, 0.0. 20036. Rent-
al, $5; purchase, 3135.

 

Filmstrip of 54
color Frames,
with 21-minute
recorded narraw
tion.

For children 7 to 14.
Informs them on pet care,
animal control ordinanc-
es, purposes oF humane
societies. Excellent For
Scouts working on pro»
Ficiency badges.

Order from Humane Society of the
United States, 1145 - 19th Street,
N.W., Washington, D.C. 20036. Rent-
al, 31; purchase, 36. Copies also
available From Portage County An-
imal Protective League and County
Board of Education office.

 

Woodw

Medium-sized,

Dimensions, 9”

6”. SA pages.

 

paper cover book.

X

VContains 49 animal stor-

 

ies, some humorous, some
sad, and 133 wildlife
photos by some of the
nation‘s greatest pho—
tographers. all stories
Factual, geared to nar»
row the gap of misunder-
standing between humans
and wildlife, to the ben=
eFit of both. This be-
longs in every home, li—
brary, school; excellent
For children or adults.

 

Order From The National Humanitar-
ian League, 2610 West Wethersfield
Road, Phoenix, Arizona 85029, for
‘2 per copy. Or, order direct From
The Northernaire, Three Lakes, Wis-
consin, at 81 per copy. Either way,
EUERY CENT OF THE PURCHASE PRICE

IS USED FOR ANIMAL WELFARE WORK.

 




Title/Author

Style

Capsule Comment

Ubtainable From

 

 

 

Bookmarks bearing humane
messages

 

6%” x 2", on
heavy stock of
assorted colors.
Actual photo
tops each, with
message below.

Very good for young Chil4
dren. Sample messages:
”Remember: Your Pet De—
pends on You"; ”Never
Tease an Animal. What is
Fun Must Be Fun For All";
”People Would Not Like

to Cive in Cageso ﬁnim—
2L2 Do Not Like It Eith—
er"; “Nature Has a Bal—
ance,” etc.

 

 

Supplied by humane education expert,
California volunteer Lester Harwood,
244 East Grand Avenue, Escondido,
California 92025 (phone, 747—0345
or 747—0343). In substantial quan-

tities, as low as 1/3¢ each.

 

C)

Cl

”be

d”

l +

I

 

A quality,

"class" paper—
back. 6-5/8" x
4%”, 18& jammed
pages, Line il-

 

 

HM‘-.—-.—.~- . ‘-_i ‘

lustrations
ehroughout plus
two photosa

 

 

Official book of The
Kindness Club. Somewhat
,like a ”scout manual.”
Filled with practical
stuff, From kindness to
calisthenics: quizzes,
poems, essays, even
songs. A wonderful hand—
book.

 

 

 

 

 

 

Brunswick Press. Send $1.00 to The
Kindness Club, 252 Waterloo Row,
Fredericton, New Brunswick, Canada.

 




Mrs. Roger Stevens August 5, 1969
Animal Welfare Institute

BOOKS ABOUT.ANIMALS

INFORMATIONAL BOOKS

Blough, Glenn 0. and Campbell, Marjorie H. WHEN YOU GO TO
THE ZOO. McCraWAHill.

About the habits and homes of the animals you see at
the zoo, and how the zoo cares for them. Grade 3-5.

Bosiger, E. and Guilcher, J.M. A BIRD IS BORN. Sterling.
English birds, with emphasis on raising the young.
Grade 3~5.

Bronson, Wilfrid S. CATS. Harcourt.
Cats as pets, and cats of the wild. Grade 4-6.

Bronson, Wilfrid S. STARLINGS. Harcourt.
Facts about these familiar birds. Grade M-o.

Bronson, Wilfrid S. TURTLF . Harcourt.
Facts about turtles - as pets and about the kinds that
cannot be nets. Grade “-6.

Brown, Vinson. HOW TO M.KE A MINIATURE ZOO, REV. ED. Little.
Proper cages, kinds of animals it is nossible to keen,
indoors and out, how to care for them. Grade 6+.

Brown, Vinson. HOW TO UNDERSTAND ANIMAL TALK. Little.
An approach to the study of animals. Grade 8+.

Burger, Carl. ALL ABOUT DOGS. 'Random House.
General information and identificatiOn of breeds.
Grade 5-6.

Carr, Archie and the Editors of Life. THE LAND AND WILDLIFE
OF AFRICA. Time, Inc. Grade 7+.

Chrystie, Frances. PETS, A COMPLETE HANDBOOK ON THE GARE,
UNDERSTANDING AND APPRECIATION OF ALL KINDS OF ANIMAL PETS.
Grade 5+.

Eherle, Irmengarde. ROBINS ON THE WINDOW SILL. Crowell.
Information about a familiar bird. Grade 1-h.

Kane, Henry B. THE TALE OF A POND. Knopf.
An excellent nature study book with many fine nhotographs.
Grade 4-6.

 




-2...

Lathrop, Dorothy P. LET THEM LIVE. Macmillan.
On the preservation of our wildlife. Grade 5-7.

McClung, Robert M. POSSUM.
WHIEBFOOT, THE STORY OF A WOOD MOUSE.
NHOOPING CRANE. Morrow.
Simple life stories of these animals. Grade 3-5.

Meek, S.P. SO YOU'RE GOING TO GET A PUPPY. Knopf.

How a dog should be fed, trained and cared for, and
treated as an individual, with kindness and affection, not as
a piece of pronerty. Grade 6-9.

Morgan, Alfred P. A PET BOOK FOR BOYS AND GTRLS. Scribners.
Care of nets. Grade 5+.

Rounds, Glen. BEAVER BUSINESS. Prentice-Hall.

.First hand observations, made from a boat, of how beavers
live and work. Grade 5-7.

Rounds, Glen. WILDLIFE AT YOUR DOORSTEP. Prentice-Hall.
The author writes colorfully of observations he has made
near his doorstep. Good nature writing. Grade 5+.

Sanderson, Ivan T. THE CONTINENT WE LIVE ON, A SPECIAL
EDITION FOR YOUNG READERS, ADAPTED BY ANNE TERRY WHITE.
Random House.

Beautiful photographs, mamr in color, of the land and its
wildlife. Grade 6+.

Selsam, Millicent. HOW TO BE A NATURE DETECTTVE. Harper.
How to recognize the clues which reveal wildlife. Grade 4—6.

Slaughter, Jean. PONY CARE. Knopf.
For the owner of a pony, or vicarious fun for the pony
lover who doesn't own one. Many illustrations. Grade u-é.

Unkelbach, Kurt. BOTH ENDS OF THE LEASH, SELECTING AND
TRAINING YOUR DOG. Prentice-Hall.
All ages.

Zim, Heraert S. RABBITS. Morrow.
Information about kinds and habits, and care of them
as pets. Grade 4—5.

 




-3-
PICTURE BOOKS AND EASY READING

Ackerman, Francis Eugene. TONK AND TﬂNKA. Button.
Stranded ducks are befriended by a family on a Massachu-
setts island. Grade h+.

Adamson, Joy. ELSA.
ELSA AND HER CUBS. Pantheon.
The story of these famous lions depicted in photographs.
All ages.

Anderson, Clarence W. CROOKED COLT. Macmillan.
The smallest girl in the family loves the weakling colt.
Grade 1-3

Anderson, Clarence w. PONY FOR THREE. macmillan.
When fun-loving Spot hurt his leg, the three little
girls who owned him heloed him.get well. Grade 2-3.

Chalmers, Audrey. A KITTEN'S TALE. Viking.
.A stray kitten seeks a home. Grade k. - 2.

De Jong, Meindert. PUPPY SUMYER. Harper.
Who was to blame that the pupnies weren't properly cared
for? Grade 4.

ﬁts, Marie Hall. PLAY WITH ME. Viking.

A little girl discovers that the way to play with the
creatures of the woods is to sit nerfectly still and watch.
Grade Preschool-1.

Keats, Ezra Jack. MY DOG IS LOST! Crowell.
A small Puerto‘Rican boy in New York hunts for his dog
and gets some help. Grade 2-3.

machetanz, Sara. A PUPPY NAMED GIH, Ill. by Fred Machetanz.
Scribner.

A picture book illustrated by an Alaskan artist, showing
a most apnealing young sled dog. K.-2.

Mason, Miriam E. erVIE AND HIS SEVEN ORPHANS. Houghton.
An orphan boy saves seven pupoies from drowning. Grade 3-4.

Mason, Miriam E. SUSANhAH, THE PIONEER COW. Houghton.
She didn't really want to go West, though the children did.
Grade 3—4. ‘ '

 




-4-

Rounds, Glen. LONE MUSKQAT. Holiday House.

How he found a new colony after a disastrous forest fire.
Grade 4—5.

Rounds, Glen. WILD ORFHAN. Holiday House.
A Young beaver kit learns to fend for himself. Grade 4.

Sandburg, Helga. BO AND THE OLD DONKEY. Dial Press.

A boy learns to accept the fact that the beloved old
donkey must be put to sleep. Grade 3-4.

Sandburg, Helga. JOEL AND THE WILD GOOSE. Dial Press.
A small boy cares for an injured goose. Pict. bk. - Gr 2.

Yashima, Mitsu and Taro. MOMO'S KITTEN. Viking.
A small girl finds a kitten. Pictures by a Japanese
artist. Grade k. — 1.

 




-5-

STORIES

Armer, Alberta, STEVE AND THE GUIDE DOGS. World.
A 13 year old boy learns how to train a dog for a blind
person. Grade 5-7.

Atkinson, Eleanor. GREYFRIAR'S BOBRY. Harper.

Story of a dog's devotion enhanced by vivid descriptions
of old Edinburgh and the wind-swept Pentland Hills. First
published in 1912. Grade 6+.

Banning, Nina Lloyd. PIT PONY. Knopf.
A Welch boy and a pony are finally freed from the hard
life of a coal mine. Grade 5-6.

’Burchardt, Nellie. PROJECT CAT. Watts.
City children befriend a stray cat. Grade h-6.

Burchardt, Nellie. REGGIE'S NO-GOOD BIRD. Watts.
.A boy is shamed into caring for a bird he has injured.
Grade [LI-6 o

Burnford, Sheila. The INCREDIBLE JOURNEY. Little.

A Labrador retriever, a Siamese cat and an English bull
terrier make an "incredible journey" in the Canadian wilderness.
Grade 7-9.

De Jong, Meindert. DIRK'S DOG, BELLO. Harper.

By the law of the sea, the Great Dane Dirk had rescued
from the sea was his. Set in a Dutch fishing village.
Grade 5-6.

De Jong, Meindert. SHADRACH. Harper.

A small Dutch boy's devotion to his black rabbit is
sensitively DOrtrayed. Grade 5+. (Can be read to younger
children. Not easy to read.)

Fisher, Aileen Lucia. VALLEY OF THE SMALBEST. Crowell.

This detailed account of the life of a small masked
shrew arouses a sense of wonder at the remarkable things
going on in the world ef nature. Grade 6+.

Gipson,-Frederick Benjamin. OLD YELLER. Harper.

A realistic picture of a dog and a courageous family
in the back country of Texas just after the Civil War.
Full of bloody animal fights. Grade 6-§.

 




-6-

James, Will. SMOKY. Scrihners.
Story of a cow pony. Grade 6+.

Kjelgaard, James Arthur. SNOW DOG. Holiday House.
A young dog in the wild North. Grade 6+.

Knight, Eric Mowbray. LASSIE COME-HOME. Grosset.
A dog's devotion to a boy leads her home across hundreds
of miles. Grade 6-9.

Lenski, Lois. HIGH-RISE SECRET. Lippincott.

Two children in a high-rise project befriend a cat.
Grade 4-6.

Liers, Emil Ernest. A BLACK BEAR‘S STORY. Viking.
Good picture of wild life in the Quetico-Suoerior wilder-

ness, and shows how bears in national parks and forests should
be treated. Grade 6+.

Liers, Emil Ernest. AN OTTER'S STORY. Viking.
Set in Michigan's upper peninsula. Grade 5+.

Liers, Emil Ernest. BEAVER'S STORY. Viking.
Full of the beauty of woodland and water. Detailed in

its descriptions of these oeace-loving, affectionate animals,
Grade 5+.

Machetanz, Frederick. PANUCK, ESKIMO SLED DOG. Scribners.
Arctic setting, vividly illustrated bv an Alaskan artist-
author. -Grade 4-6.

Mukerji, Dhan Gopal. KARI, THE ELEPHANT. Dutton.
Set in India. Grade 5-6.

Oldrin, John. ROUND MEADOW. Viking.
A tiny orphaned fawn learns the ways of wild life and of
humans. Grade 5-8.

Ottley, Reginald. BOY ALONE. Harcourt.

Set on an Australian homestead. The theme of this story
is a boy's love for two beautiful dogs. Grim, yet compas-
sionate. Grade 6+. '

Patchett, Marv Elwyn. AJAX, GOLDEN DOG OF THE AUSTRALIAN
BUSH. BohbséMerrill.

A girl and her animal friends. Based on the author's
memories of her girlhood on a lonely cattle station.
Grade 5-7.

 




-7-

Reese, John Henry. BIG MUTT. westminster.

An abandoned dog is saved by a boy who proves that the
dog is not the outlaw the cattle ranchers believe him to
be. Grade 6+.

Sandburg, Helga. BLUEQERRY. Dial Press.

A girl who is crazy about horses learns what responsi-
bility is when she owns one. She lives in a busy family
whose members have many interests and where there are many
animals. Grade 6-3.

Sewell, Anna. BLACK BEAUTY. Grosset.
written in 1877 to dramatize the mistreatment of horses
in Victorian England. Grade 5-6.

 




-8-

PERSONAL EXPERIENCES

Adamson, Joy. BORN FREE; A LIONES? OF TWO WORLDS. Pantheon.
A game warden in Kenya, Africa and his wife adont a

lion cuh. Elsa has become famous through Mrs. Adamson's

books and photographs. Grade 7+.

Carmer, Carl. PETS AT THE WHITE HOUSE. Dutton.
Some stories about favorites pets of the presidents and

their families. Many kinds of animals are reoresented.
Grade lot-6 o

Carrighar, Sally. WILD VOICE OF THE NORTH. Doubleday.

When the author's field trip to Alaska to study lemmings
turns into a snowbound winter in Nome, there developes a
battle of wills between the naturalist and her magnificent
husky dog whose instincts are in conflict with forced do-
mestication. Grade 6-9.

Maxwell, Gavin. THE OTTHR'S TALE. Button.

An account, well illustrated with many photographs,
of the author's experiences with three otters. This is
material taken from the author's "Ring of Bright Water",
plus the story of a third otter not in the earlier adult
title. Grade 5-9.

North, Sterling. RASCAL. Dutton.
A memorable picture of a boy lavishing tender, sensitive
and pains—taking care on his net racoon. Grade 6+.

Rounds, Glen. RAIN IN THE WOODS. world.

Excellent short essays about small animals and insects.
Grade 5+.

Seton, Ernest Thompson. WILD ANIMALS I HAVE KNOWN. Scribners.
Short life histories of our native animals by a famous
naturalist. Grade 5+.

 




Cole, William (comp.), THE BIRDS AND THE BE'STS wERE THERE.
World 0

Reed, Gwendolyn (comp.), OUT OF THE ARK; AN ANTHOLOGY OF
ANIMAL VERSE. Atheneum.

Children's Service
D.C. Public Library

 




CHURCHILL FILMS
002 NON/1, Haber/son Boulevard

Los Angela, California 90069

()1. 7—5110

August 13,

Mrs. Charles W. Cooke
Animal Welfare Institute
3410 Que Street, N.W.
Washington, D. C. 20007

Dear Mrs. Cooke:

Thank you for your inquiry of July 31st
regarding THE PERILS OF PRISCILLA.

The purchase price of the film is $180
currently; as of September lst, $185.00. Preview
prints are available at no charge should you wish
to evaluate the film with a view toward purchase.

Enclosed is a study guide describing the
contents of the film. If we may be of further
assistanCe to you, please let us know. Your
interest in our films is appreciated.

«Sincerely,

?

Priscilla Forance

 




Study Guide

THE
PERILS
OF
PRISCILLH

A Story for You to Complete

 

What is it like
to be a small pet,
lost and alone

in a big noisy city?
From Priscilla’s

point of View, we share
her encounter with
speeding trafﬁc, ﬂashing
lights, hurrying people. . .

But how does her adventure

 

conclude? . . . Each viewer

can make up his own ending.

 

 

 




    

 
  
 

CONCEPTS

Pets are dependent upon
their owners for physical
comfort and well-being, for
affection, even for life itself.

Pets need care all of the

time, not just part of the
time.

Animals, like people, need a
quiet place to be alone.

Love is expressed in thought-
fulness, gentleness, trust-
worthiness.

A city can be an unfriendly
environment for living
things.

This ﬁlm was made possible

by a grant from the Pasadena
Humane Society.

 

 

CONTENT

At home:

Priscilla returns from her
morning walk. Finding food
and a quiet place to rest pre-
sent problems in a busy
household. The family
departs for a weekend vaca-
tion. Later, a dog eats all

of Priscilla’s food.

In the city:

Searching for food, Priscilla
has many adventures in the
city. She becomes lost and
afraid. That night she is cap-
tured and carried off in

a truck.

At the animal shelter:

Priscilla arrives at a puz-
zling place. Where is she?
How will her adventure end?

 

VALUES

What does it mean to be
responsible for a pet?

How could the family have
shown they really cared
about Priscilla?

Why is it important for each
of us to be considerate and

trustworthy toward people?
Toward animals?

SCIENCE

What did Priscilla need to
be healthy and happy?
What needs did the family
supply?

What did they forget?

Why was the day in the city

so difﬁcult for Priscilla?
(adaptation to env1ronment)

 

      

a ‘
. . Perils at home _. . . .T . in the wilds (a Clty park). .

 

LAN

Spe:
Des
abo
hou
Use

WOI

Wh.
in t]
Hm
whe
was
Writi
Wri
ﬁlm

Tell
care
belc

Reac
Loc
cats
Rea
abo

 




 

FOR USE IN
SECONDARY SCHOOLS

producer

DIMENSION FILMS
—

CHURCHILL FILMS
distributor

 

 




-§

" 2W
XX ,’ A‘wbﬁM
or

illustrated by Hope Sawyer Buyukmichi

Flhce DZﬁmcﬂmcsss @llunlb

THE KINDNESS CLUB is an international organization for
young people who appreciate animals and want to learn how to
help them. .

As an international organization, The Kindness Club has
branches all over the world.

In the United States, The Kindness Club is administered by
The National Humane Education Center, Waterford, Virginia.
Join The Kindness Club and BE KIND. . . .

 




 

THE KIN DN ESS CLUB

Dr. Albert Schweitzer said that true goodness requires us to
respect the lives of all creatures. He explained, “We are life
which wills to live in the midst of life which wills to live.” This
way of looking at life is called Reverence for Life.

Mrs. Hugh John Flemming, wife of a Canadian Member of
Parliament, reading Dr. Schweitzer’s writing, wanted to help
animals. Through an essay contest, she asked children to come
up with fresh ideas on the subject: “What is being done for the
protection of animals? What more can be done?”

In doing research for their essays, children found out about
the cruelties that are inﬂicted on animals, and they wrote to
Mrs. Flemming, asking, “Why didn’t we know these things be-
fore? Why didn’t someone tell us? Is there a club we can join
to help put a stop to these terrible things?”

 

There wasn’t any club, so Mrs. Flemming started one. In a few
years it had spread to every continent, and through it children
speaking different languages are learning the universal language
of kindness, and how to put into practice the Golden Rule: “Do
unto others as you would have them do unto you.”

Kindness Club members don’t just feel sorry for animals in
need of help. They do something about it! Here .are a few
things YOU might do, and you will think of other thmgs to do:

Try to get a good home for an unwanted cat or dog.

Be a dog-walker for someone who is ill.

Urge your friends never to bother a bird’s nest.

Feed birds in winter, and provide fresh water for them.

Dare to stand up for helpless animals, and ask an adult to
help when you can’t correct the wrong yourself.

Learn how to be kind, and tell your friends how important it
is to be kind.




JOIN THE KINDNESS CLUB

Kindness Club members learn about kindness by learning about
animals, learn how to help animals, and learn to BE KIND by
helping.

Find out from The National Humane Education Center if
there is a branch club you can join. It’s a lot more fun to work
together with friends to help animals.

 

You can become a member even if there is no branch club
where you llve. Members are called Raccoons because the rac-
coon is the mascot of The Kindness Club. If there is no branch

club you can join, you will be called a Lone Raccoon until a
branch club can be organized.

Lone Raccoons have a special assignment. Invite other boys
and g1rls who want to help animals to join with you. Then,
1nV1te an adult to be your leader, or Raccoon Captain.

hAnnual membership dues are $2.00. If you can, try to earn
E 6 money for your dues by doing a special job for someone.

0 your work well, so both the person you have helped, and
YOU, Will be pleased when the task is completed.

 

 




Learn The Kindness Club pledge by heart, and The Kindness
Club motto.

Sign The Kindness Club Pledge below and send it, with your
$2.00 dues, to:

THE KINDNESS CLUB
National Humane Education Center
Waterford, Virginia 22190

You will receive a Kindness Club Kit containing:

A lesson manual

A project manual
Your membership card
Your membership pin

(If there is a branch club where you live, of course, you should
join the branch club.)

You will also receive The Kindness Club newsletter to learn
about what other Kindness Club members are doing to help
animals and people.

KINDNESS CLUB MOTTO: “BE KIND”
KINDNESS CLUB PLEDGE: “I promise to be kind to animals

and people and to speak and act in defense of all helpless
living creatures.”

Signature

 

Address

 

School

 

Birth Date:

 

 




 

State

Alabama

Connecticut

Illinois

mus LEIATING TO animus EDUCATION - comma, 1956

 

Wbrding of the Bag

 

Title 52, Section Shé of the Alabama Code of l9h0.

This section provides that at least twenty minutes each week
be spent in humane education. A course in humane education is
also offered in the teacheriraining institutions of the State.
The Code section.provides also that the monthly report of each
school must include a statement that the SECTION has been com—
plied with.

Section 13h? of the General Statutes of Connecticut in part
states as follows:

Public schools shall be maintained in each town for at least
180 days of actualsnhool sessions during each year . . . in
said schools shallbe taught, by teachers legally qualified,

. . . instruction in the humane treatment and protection of
animals and birds and their economic importance, such instruc—
tion, where practicable, to be correlated with work in reading,
language, and nature study . . .

Illinois Revised Statutes, 195V -
(Chapter 122, Sections 27-12 and 27—13)

27-12 Humane treatment and protection of birds and animals.

In every public school not less than one-half hour of each'week
during the whole of each term of school shall be devoted to teach-
ing the pupils kindness and justice to and humane treatment and
protection of birds and.animals, and the part they fulfill in the
economy of nature. Each teacher may teach such subject for a
half~hour on any one day or for a feW'minutes daily, by means of
reading, incidents, stories, personal examples or in connection
with nature—story.

27-13 Experiments on living animals prohibited ~-‘Dessection of
dead animals.

No experiment upon any living animal for the purpose of demon-
stration in any study shall be made in any public school. No
animal provided by, or killed in the presence of any pupil of a
public school shalllae used for dissection in such school, and
in no case shall dogs or cats be killed for such purposes.
Dissection of deadenimals, or parts thereof, shall be confined to
the classroom and.shall not be practiced in the presence of any
pupil not engaged in the study to be illustrated thereby.

 

 

 

 




“2~

LAWS RELATING TO HUMANE EDUCATION ~ OCTOBER, 1956

 

 

§tate Wording of the ﬂaw

 

Florida 231.09 Duties of instructional personnel.-
(1) TEACHING. - Teach efficiently and faithfully, using the
books and materials required, following the prescribed courses
of study, and employing approved methods of instruction, the
following: the essentials of the United States constitution, flag
education, including proper flag display and flag salute, the
elements of civil government, the elementary principles of agri—
culture, the true effects of all alcoholic and intdxicating
liquors and beverages and‘narcotics upon the human body and mind,
kindness to animals, - - -

 

Georgia ~§2>Wrzs2mw¢a :muamxmw Instruction in Animal, Bird and Fish Life
3 ~l70l. Purposes of Chapter. The purposes of this Chapter are
the lessening ofc3rime and the raising of the standards of good
citizenship and inculcating in the minds of the children a spirit
ofﬁhrift, economy,.kindness, by including in the curriculum of
all.public schools a course of training to teach, promote, and
encourage the conservation and protection of birds, animals, fish,
and any and all other forms of useful wild life, and the forests.
(Acts 1929, P. 188)

32-1702. Public school instruction in tird, animal, fish, forest
life, etc. In every public shhool a period of not less than 25
minutes of each week during the entire school term shallte de~
voted teateaching the pupils thereof the practical value of con-
serving and.protectingtirds, animals, fish, and other forms of
wild life, and the forests; also the humane treatment and protec-
tion of our domestic birds and animals, as wellas the part they
play in theeconomy of nature. It mayte optional with the teacher
whether this period shallbe a consecutive 25 minutes or be divided
into shorter periods during theieek; and it shall also be within
the discretion of the teacher as to the method of instruct on
to_be employed. The instruction herein prescribed shall consti-
tute a definite purpose of the curriculum of study in all the
public schools. (Acts 1929, p. 188)

32-1703.' Certification by teachers. Eachand every teacher in
the schools shallc:ertify in his or her reports that the instruc-
tion provided for has been in accordance with the provisions of
this Chapter. (Acts 1929, p.188)

 




-3-
Laws RELATING TO HUMANE EDUCATION - OCTOBER, 1956

State ' , . wording of the Law

 

Louisiana Act, No. 150 - House Bill No. 92
Providing for the teaching of kindness tociumb animals.
Section 1. Be it enacted by the Legislature of Louisiana,
That the State Board of Education is requested to take such
steps as it may think necessarywand wise to provide forithe
teaching of kindness in the public schools to dumb animals, it
being understood that the State Superintendent of Public Educa-
tion, by the direction.of the State Board of Education, will
issue such suggestions and furnish.such‘information to the
superintendents and teachers of the State as in the wisdom.of
the State Board of Education may seem.appropriate and necessary.
Approved by the Governor: July 15,Vl92h
James J. Bailey

Secretary bf State

 

 

Maine " Section lhh of Chapter hl of the State of Maine laws relating
- to Public Schools states, in part:

"ﬂ ‘* * all teachers in13he public schools of the state shall
devote not less than One-half hour of each week of the school
term.to teaching to the children under their charge, in correlation
with other studies of the school curriculum, the great principles of
humanity as illustrated by kindness to birds and.animals and regard
for all factors which contribute to the well—being of man."

North‘Dakota Section 15-3811 of the North Dakota Revised Code of l9h3 states:
, "Oral instruction in the humane treatment of animals shall be
given in each public school."

Pennsylvania Section lSlh Public School Code of l9h9 - Humane Education:
Instruction in humane education shalll3e given to all pupils up
to and including the fourth grade, and need not exceed half an
hour each week during the whole school term. No cruel<experiment
on any living creature shall be permitted in any public school of
this Commonwealth.

PUblic School lam, Bulletin 527, 1952 Texas Education.Agency:
"Suitable instruction shallte given in the primary grades as acts
regarding kindness to animals and the protection of birds and their
nests and.eggs." hBth Leg., P.599, ch.3hh, par. 1

 




'Bisconsin

wydming

New Mexico

.44..

RELATING TO HUMANE EDHGATEQ§ - OCTOBTR1¥19Sé

 

Section h0.h6 (6) of the'Wisconsin Statutes:

"ANZMAL LIFE" Each public school teacher shall.devote not less
than 30 minutes each month to teaching the pupils kindness to and
the habits, usefulness and.importance of animals and birds, and
the best methods of protecting, presemving and caring for all
animal and bird life."

Section 67—lhlh, 'Wyoming Compiled Statutes, l9h5, reads as
follows: "There shallte taught in the public schools of wyoming,
in addition to the other branches of study now prescribed, a
system.of humane treatment of animals, as embodied in the laws of
‘Wyoming; such instruction to consist of not less than two lessons
of ten (10) minutes each per week. The principal or teacher of
every school shall certify in each of his or her reports that such
instruction has been given in the school under his or her control."

73-17-5. Humane education courses — Prescribing.—~ The state board
of education shall prescribe and cause to be taught in the oublic
schools in the state of NeW'NeKico a course of humane education
and such as in the opinion of said board of education and the
superintendent of public instruction as will educate and train the
pupils of said schools in the humane treatment of dumb animals and
other subjects calculated to develop in the minds of the pupils a
Sp%rit ofldndncss, humanity, and tolerance. (Lens l9hl, ch.6l — l,
p.«l

 




T 71 rgxﬁ 21;”: " 1' r1 1
3:11.}! LL 311T I: 4.11“} ‘U LIA}—

:Liplw-E A‘

MK‘
111‘} ix.)

IAWS RELA

.p

.2.

Wb1dj -n” o

11 LC11 01‘
aS fo3luwss
Ins 310* cm

"/1 {3 n

QfEicer, baaa;.or Lommis
3i?$GS ef‘iﬁﬁ*ruciﬁon shall
111121 1Lary “ 011001 1L1(1ef “ “

D3ﬁ c m011c r 01 tha

1 Ofy 33113L amd birds
econamy of nat11
cﬁnzma ﬁmhm
and may‘be jcined
L131 0r ethnolog; u
MOTﬁ periods. A
in the public
1311003
15 "LT<

.111 the 1111 12.1.11 11::1 treat;
Siam a11th

0 .
1-. ~11:— ' ' r-
b (33. .3- {.313 ‘1.“

3.13113.

1"
.1. (so

1

13811

("'<

Q..."

116.111sz

ﬂ/
1

the State 0

3ChOOl {non 9f 0
SUb 1‘-.Ct

- 001391.783?

the Law

4’.“

I
.J-

neLL of

1.1- ZCi 1;. 01“].

'l 3
(A (J-

(3013+ “1‘01. 01"”

L‘
" L:
{I Th;

1'3

LLL101‘L

Such
each school ye«

3 h 11b” is

J‘xh

animals

89 ilstruction t:

1,.
11

1r

C\/\ 13.331;

Ecrk

and birds:
WZQliTQd to pre—
given
SLp;5
umane
of

F}
1.3.;

-;\

€5le

de oi r:3ents may

(3 13,1un 3ag%

,3m:v be diviﬂkd
not be e11Li- bled
01 any school
grovisians of tﬁis
VGII 1b ”11611 0.111»

.1
.L.

(‘33.:
'“ .3.—

t-)

not

I

 




July 15, 1968

Mr. Robert Price, Diraetar

ﬁigrant Radix Centar

Region Una Eﬂueation Serving Canter
111 Earth Tbnth Straet

Edinburg, Texas 78539

D931. 251'. ”136’

Undar separate cevmr ya have sent savaral of cur
publicatiana uhich.may’be of intareat to yuu.

 

 

Enclased harawith are the listings af'matﬁrials
available fram tha Animal Wblfara Instituta to Elemantany
and Secandary aahool taadhars.

If W8 can b» at any further service, plazas let ,
M 1:11”.

Ybur kind interast is appraciated.

Einoaralyg

(ﬁrs.) Barbara Gauld
Enclosures
Separate cavmr mail

 

 




333%?“

K {Em-u" W 4a,:'_ 73;; 1x3
we E'V‘W 5‘3 {3% I? E?» “a; Warm
Iii’gwm % 13$ “£357,469” «imam: if“ {33 «can lay

iii «Illfiiliiﬁ'i ‘” iN”Li§€~ iE‘iﬁIS F353?
5?? i - iﬁjSl' Qi‘FiCE 3‘“ 307

 

 

Genliemee:

The Mic reel “3* a IIIiei lI’E ed a? ibe Region l Educarioa Serv :
Denier in Edinburg, .exas is eurrer nTlv organizing an educaiional
library +0 serve migrahi schools l3 SeaThern Texas“ Mosi of our
aer aierIale are being purchased from regular commercIal producer
W3 ar3 also infer esied in obiaining some sponsored maiez“ ialea
rerm loan basis. Our media cenier will serve approximaiely 23,000

in grades one ihrough nine.

We are primarily inlereeied in iilme ani iiimsirips, arluoLm we
weuld be inieresled To l earn abou+ any oiher nel erials you have availabiev
iﬁe we uld like +0 have prinis of any films or films irips which you produce
which are appropriaie for This level, under The following condiilons:

l. No renial or service fee will be charged by ihe Migrahi-Media
Cenier for ihe use of any maierials

Regular inspeciion and minor repairs for films ”‘1 Iiimeirlpe
will be provided by ihe Migrani Media Cenler.

A

Posiage fees for circulaiing maieriale will be ‘Iid by The
Migrani Media Cenier.

Quarierly reporis of all shewince wiil be semi ibe company if

desired.

Films and oiher maieriale will be reiurned i3 rhe company on {LIN

‘1

The company will charge nc f3 3 To Irhe MigranT Mesa 3 Lenl 3r for b»
of films and OTher maierials.

 




If you have maierial available under lhese condiiions, we would like
lo hear from you ai your earliesl convenience.

If your policies differ from The condiiions lisied, we would also be
inieresied in considering olher arrangemenls.

Sincerely yours,

Roberl Price, Direcior
Migranl Media Cenier

 




’PUBLIC SCHOOLS OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA
Franklin Administration Building
Washington, D. C. 20005

Superintendent's Circular No. 248
January 13, 1967

TO ALL SCHOOL PRINCIPALS:

The Animal Welfare Institute is sending to each elementary school
principal a sample kit containing the following items:

Studying Our Fellow Mammals

First Aid and Care of Small Animals
Befriending Animals

Kittens and Cats

You and Your Dog

A sample kit containing the following is being sent to all junior,
vocational, and senior high school principals:

l. Studying Our Fellow Mammals
Humane Biology Projects
Abuse of Animals in the Classroans

Rules Governing Treatment of Animals by High School Biology
Students

Please have your teachers examine the materials and submit their
requests for kits through the principal to the Superintendent before January
1967, Principals or teachers may call the Humane Education Committee of
the Washington Animal Rescue League, NOrth 7-5730 for further information.

20,
Very sincerely yours,
CARL F0 HANSEN

Superintendent of Schools

 




THE ARK FOUNDATION

1. We ask for your help in the founding of a new school, to be called The Ark,
to be situated near Oxford, and to take boys and girls from three up to thirteen
years of age. The school is the idea of a group of friends and has for its aim the
laying down of the right foundations for the spiritual lives of its pupils. We believe
that there is spiritual life in the smallest child, that the spirit is evolving further in
and through the physical being; so we consider that it is essential to give priority
to spiritual growth.

2. We shall not be following any one particular religion or school of thought, but
shall allow each teacher to find, from experience, his or her best method. Above
all, we wish to be practical, to work together to create a community and an atmos-
phere where, through care and kindness and in a right use of the things of life, the
spirit will naturally flourish and the person be led towards wholeness.

3. Children, we believe, have many jewels of character which, as they grow up,
may be all too soon in the wrong way overlaid; we shall remember that our pupils
are children, and not miniature adults over whom we have control. Very young

children are one with the world they inhabit, and so for them the experience must
always be more than the symbol, and even the symbol must first be introduced to
them as an experience. Then when a child first learns of the world as a place separate
from himself, he or she grows best through the rhythmical impulses to move, to
create, to discover, to perform and form a responsiveness to the rhythmic vitality of
life as a whole.

4. if abstract categories of thought are introduced to a child too soon as has been
the general practice in education during the last few centuries, then he or she may
grow up never having properly known or expressed the creative possibilities of

life, and may until overtaken by some crisis, remain always one-sided. We are
hoping therefore to acquire a property with extensive grounds, where there are trees
and wild plants and where we may keep animals; creative activities such as painting,
drama and music will have a central place in the curriculum. Through the great
legends of the past, through descriptions of other times and places that will seem’ in
some way related to their experience, and through daily contact with plants and
animals, we shall try to show our pupils a living and not a dead world.

5. Techniques and skills will be taught as these activities require them, so that each
child will gradually learn the means and the extent of his or her control over self or

 




 

environment; however, this will be done in such a way that the process of control

does not become separated from the apprehension of living as a whole. No one enters
easily upon the management of a life just beginning; we shall try to be sensitive to

each child’s onesidedness and weaknesses, and to present him or her with the experience
necessary for greater wholeness and confidence. We hOpe that the life of the school will
become as it were a pool from which each child will draw what he needs.

6. As soon as we have properly come into being as a community, we aim to take
children with special difficulties of adjustment to life.

7. The older children will be equipped to take the examinations that may be necessary
for them; the coaching for common entrance will be in experienced hands. We shall
cover a wide range of subjects in our curriculum, including among others ancient and
modern languages, the sciences, dancing, carpentry, gardening, history, geography, mathe-
matics, swimming, footbali, netball, cricket, gymnastics, with and without apparatus, the
care of the few farm animals and ponies. Classes will be kept to about 12; We hope to
be able to arrange sailing, climbing, and other eutdoor activities.

Though we. feel that children gain more from living in their own homes than board—
ing away, we shall be able to have a few boarders where for some reason it seems better
for the child.

We intend providing home grown food, when possible.

8. We are hoping to acquire a house with 15 acres of land near Frilford, 7 miles from
Oxford and on bus routes from Oxford and Abingdon. in order to start the school and
make it a self-supporting enterprise, we are aiming to raise £50,000. £2,500 is needed
immediately for the deposit on the house, and a further £20,000 to complete the purchase.

Signed: R.J. Street, M.A. (Cantabi, Cert. of Education.
John Blackwood, MA. (Cantab.).
Anita Clokie, University Entrance.
Max German, B.A. (Oxon.).
Colleen Gorman, Teachers' Training, Gymnastics.
Gabrielle Maas, University of Hamburg.
Joan Spencer, M.A. (Cantab).
Marion Stevens, A.l.S.T.D.
Elizabeth Hibbert.
Olive Robinson, Cert. of Ed., English and Art.
Bill Barlow, B.A. lCantab.).

Governors: Rt. Rev. Metropolitan Anthony of Surozh, Russian Orthode, Metropolitan of
Western Europe,
The Venerable Cho'gyam Trungpa Rinpoche, Lama.
Mrs. Elizabeth Horne. '
_ Rev. Dr. Roy S. Lee, MA. Ph.D., Chaplain to Nuffield College, Oxford, and to
St. Catherine's College.




 

The following people have encouraged us to go ahead with the idea:

Dame Margery Perham, D.C.M.G.

Harold St. J. Home, Oxfordshire County Council; Soil Association Council.

Peter Roberts (farmer and founder of Compassion in World Farming).

O.V. Calder, BA. (Oxon.).

Airey Neave, 0.8.0., O.B.E., M.C., T.D., MP.

George W. Perry, l\/l.A., M.Ed., Senior Staff Tutor, Institute of Education,
University of Oxford. .

A.D.C. Peterson, O.B.E,, M.A., Director, lnstitute of Education, University
of Oxford.

John Wilson, Director, Farmington Trust.

H..A.C. Pearce, Culham College.

Miss Elizabeth Jennings.

Sam Mayall, Farmer.

Rev. R.S. Thomas.

Lady Eve Balfour.

Lady McDougall.

Sir Herbert Read.

Evan Luard, MP.

MC. Clerici, M.B.E., M.A., Registrar, Oxford College of Technology.

Dr. Margaret Branch.

H.A.C. Pearce, D.C.P.,

Lord Redcliffe-Maud

Dr. Enid Starkie
Mrs. Ruth Robertson
John Brindley, B.Sc.

 




Both gifts, and loans for a minimum, please, of three years, will be most grate-
fully received, and arrangements can also be made for deeds of covenant. All these
should be sent to the treasurer, acting until September:

A.E.G. Rudlin, A.C.W.A.,
c/o. Westminster Bank,
Summertown, OXFORD

Cheques should be made payable to A.E.G. Rudlin, Ark Account.

Offers of pianos and other musical equipment, tables, climbing frames, gym-
nastic equipment or anything useful, would be most welcome. Offers should be
made to Mrs. E. Hibbert, The Green, Northmoor, Oxon.

Enquiries should be sent to J.A. Blackwood, Julianstowe Cottage, Harberton
Mead, Oxford.

We do most urgently ask for your help in a venture which we believe to be
both possible and worthwhile.

On the ............................. day of ..................................... 19 ...... please pay the sum of

£ ................................................ from my .................................. account to Westminster Bank Ltd.,
Summertown, Dxford, for the credit of the ARK Account.

These payments should commence on the ................ day of .......................................... 19 ..........
and are to continue until either the final payment of ..................................... or you receive my instruc—
tions to cancel them.

 

Signature .................................................................................

 




THE ARK NEWSLETTER. l.
April 28th.

We are writing to let all of you who have written to us with enquiries and with donations, know how
things are going. We all work and there is therefore no full time answering of letters, so a newsletter seemed
the best idea.

The house which we mentioned in the 'blurb' which we sent out initially comes up to auction on
May 22nd. It is ideally situated between Oxford, Abingdon, Harwell and Wantage, and the grounds are as
ideal as the house. There are orchids and snakesheads in the pasture, wild irises and many other flowers;
there is a small coppice, two little shallow streams and a lovely vegetable garden: A badger's tracks were seen
in the coppice and a crane near the stream. There is a flat playing field of three acres, and the whole property
has a wonderful atmosphere being in the Vale of the Whitehorse and looking towards it.

Whilst we are waiting for the school to come into being, we have one pupil, starting this term, who is
studying for 0 levels. Then in the village church of Northmoor, the church of 8. Dennis, we have started an
Art and Music morning twice alweek for the village children; John Blackwood plays and sings old songs, or
carols, or Beatle songs which are suitable, or Bach, on the organ, and we join in where and when we can. The
church is very beautiful but not used enough, and it is the vicar's generosity which allows us to use it like
this. As a result of the class, we have been asked to provide posters for 'Christian Week' for a local walk.
After the first Art lesson a little girl said ”It's funny, the church is usually so cold, but somehow today it
feels warm.”

We should say who we are. John Blackwood, musician and poet, Elizabeth Hibbert, mother of four
children, now grown or growing up, youngest aged eleven, Bill Barlow now staying in Northmoor and helping
with correspondence as well as helping a local Farmer. Bill is a Cambridge graduate and seems to know how to
do most things. Elizabeth Texidor (Morris), 3 very fine artist, is helping with the Art class, Joan Spencer,
who teaches French, is also the mother of four children and a widow, and recently translated Voltaire's works
for the Oxford University Press. Max Gorman teaches English and History, Colleen German is nursing at the
moment. Gabrielle Maas whose father Paul Maas escaped from Germany at the beginning of the war, has
worked with children and the country and coloured children. She is a grandmother (just). Josine Alexander
teaches many subjects, though primarily English, and has a great interest in astronomy. Ronald Street, who
is in Hospital at the moment, and the others will have to come onto the next newsletter.

We have been offered the use of a big house nearby for boarding, and the three local directors of
Education whom we have approached, Berkshire, Oxfordshire and Oxford City, all seem to think that they
will help with children who need to come to the school. We are now asking for really solid support and if
any of you feel like sending off letters to friends who would be interested, or who would like to help finan-
cially, if you would write to us saying how many copies of the blurb you want, we could send them to you
with or without a short covering letter.

i forgot to add that we have been offered two pianos and a pony called Starlight who is very good with
little children, and help with getting equipment wholesale. We have also had some offers of furniture, and if

anyone has anything they think would be useful, please let us have it, or a description!

l

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   
  

(

‘, NINE LIVES EXHAUSTED ——-E1ysian Heights primary school of Los Ange-Les opens 33
usual this fall, but “Room 8” Won’t be back. The gray. tomcat (shown resting' in one Off-his;
. f'avdxjit’e spots). .who missed scarcely, a day of school' in 15 years, died‘.‘ Tuesday, — his mne
i lives exhausted bga kidney ailment. (UPI TELEPHOTO). . - ' _ , v . i '

'iﬂ‘

  

 

    
     

  
   




M11 34th Street, gm.
¥'§&5hingmn, EQCt 26007

ﬁr. ﬂaﬂlay'é‘ Brawn

Qiraeter of Educatisn
Cambimd Edueatian MMm
3120 East 30th Straat
Indianapalig, Inﬁiana Q6218

ﬁaar ﬂy. ﬁvawn:

 

 

 

Sinca yam? laat ﬁiS§1ﬁy mf humans adueat&cnal matewial

was at ihe and 9f Qatdbar, 1?67, I am wyiting naw to

inquiwe whathar1y¢u hﬁV$ pkans far a similar display and
distxibutian.th&s yaaw.

‘ﬁa ﬁrﬁ t&kimg mata?ials t9 a teaahoys mﬁeting in Philadalphia
this waak amﬁ will ﬁa glad ta ccoperata with.yau in Indiana
if you will lat us knaw haw ta da 53.

ginearely,

ﬁhristins 3tav¢ns
¥re$iéant

 




my 8, 1968

Mr. mdlay A. Brawn, mmetor of Educatian
Combined Eiucation Program

3120 East 30th Street

Indianapolis , Indiam #6218

mar ﬁr. Brown:

Thanks for sending the report on the distrimtian at hmmm adm-
oauoml murals. You (516 an axmllent pines 91‘ work.

Sines writing you on January 19th, we have gmaan’md booth ami-
bits at. this Hatiaml Association of 319103; Teaaham in Amhem,
Califm, and the Natiaml Salaam Twohera Ass’aeiation in
Washington, D. C. In both M535 than was tremendous tiemand far
Animal Valium Institute manuals on the garb of teachers and adminiu
straters. I am enclosing ~ ”In 3523133 0! tha order blanks we used
for elementary and sewndary school teachers.

Realizing that. yen my new be working an planning yaw mach 92:211-
bit, I thought I shcmld. be in tmmh with yam again so that. am am
vaamd fer working with you to the: best advantage.

mama-sly,

Christine Stmmns
Fmsiéont

83:1}1

Enchant-as

BC to: Dorothy Dyce /

 




 

 

Fifty thousand pieces of humane educational materials

were distributed as a result of the Combined Education Pro-

gram's diaplay at the 1967 Indiana State Teacher's Institute

held October 26th and 27th in Indianapolis.

The display was presented as an attemot to make Indiana
teachers aware of the many humane educational materials
available to them at little or no charge. It contained only
examoles For teachers to examine, but an explanation oF how
the materials could be used and orders for them were taken by
three attendants.

'The materials disolaved were qraciously produced and pro-
vided by four sources: the American Humane Association (AHA),
the American Humane Education Societv (AHES), the Animal Welfare
Institute (AWI), and the Combined Education Program itself which
is sponsored by the Indianapolis Humane and Zoological Societies.

Over 2,000 teachers attended the Institute and orders were
taken for 450 schools from 631 people, many oF whom were school
representatives ordering for individuals not in attendance.

At the close of the Institute, the teacher's requests were
compounded and the total number of each desired item assertained.
Orders for some of the materials-~for example, 483 requests for
the AHA's Calendar Series and 250 requests for the AHES Teacher
kits-~were forwarded to their sources who mailed them directly
to the teachers upon receipt of lists of the names and addresses

of the teachers wanting them.

 




 

 

 

Dame 2
Other materials-~for exawn]e, 2,06ﬂ FHA kit? on fhe care
0f quS, Pats, birds, and small animals as well as PEA "Thimals

Tn Art" informafion (712), RNA "Pnoke “ocmmmcnﬂoﬁ “or Fﬁiiﬂven“

(142) , AVA 'WN? Vie? 93‘ ﬁ?€“alf¥” Des+(ww: 1,13% .3:- r3; give);

riff "nrvvi Virwi Lirwu' '”1 J , nrvi'vierW}‘1are(mwx irUer”&*ﬁrwwlibﬁut
'thﬁ‘fTeﬁ”iiFFV‘ Fﬂxuﬁa*jrv1 PTVV1r3n1 (“T}-~-w<=,r . . Mi’ 3‘ 11' 'HH ?WYP"~
(111(1611'r: fir1 f‘iTE‘ (ﬂ()'"if‘i1“£5<7 T*r’11<::11*i r3r1 "1‘r3v1‘“*1"‘ x~ 3‘“ '-"‘I ~ 1; ”AU 1 t:£>1‘cer’

1

in nrn'1Jay {1‘ 'he tnmech64”=t*eei1iiun {”wv“.
T‘UJ lF-‘V ,7“. . Tirnwr , z"? 1 r1" («4: my r‘. C 1;(‘ F1 i‘ j «"33"; “7 r1 1' t‘ ‘ 1,, 1

Fﬁucatinn Prhqrnm, Feel: +he ﬁiem‘nv 7? ﬁvbcmefet in

teachers aware n“ humane waterinle, ?) nrbvi‘eﬁ them to the

teachers who wantew‘. t‘t'mm and thy: $5 (21. 1' r“: 3 7151 ten“ any WM 8 WE” ‘th i. (1'11

miqht have mccured if peeple were BIJOweB fn eimhiw “hick um”

anythina hrovided, é} delivered the material: at a #ime when

I

teachers could give them their unﬂiviﬂeﬂ attention, an

A

('7 17;)

provideﬂ a list of names of people who are activelv interesteﬁ

‘in humane education.

 




 

 

January 19, 1968

Ar UAAAAA A BroAn, DArAAtAr AfAA Mucation
IAAAAAAAAIAA {ummna nAciAty

W} W AAA 30th 3trAAt

AAAAAAAAAAAA, AAAAAAA AAEIA

$AAA.AA. ArAAn:

AA AArA AAAAAAAAA AAAA AAA FA $039A yam AAACAAAA AA AAAAAA AAA-
AAAAAAAT AAAArArlA AA AAA AVAAsAA AAA AAA Am 1?6? at thA IAAAAAA
AAAAA M AAArA‘ Institute. Aharulv aiAAr yozzr lAttAr Af AOVAAAAP
AAA AA:  rAcAjAAA, AA AAAt AAA AAA AAA AAAAA :A Road Aind Lion,
JAAAA AAA AAAAAAAAA AAA AAAn rAquAAtAd Av tAACHQAAA And I W
AAAA AAAA AAAA AiAAAAAALAA AA them.

{A A? AAAAAAAAAA AAAt AA AorA AAAA AAA An cannsctian A ’. A similar
AA AAAAAA AA 33““ 2A AAAAAAA, “AA A" AA AGIAAAAA A 3.3.5 A? AAtAw
rAAAA AAAAAAAAA fAAA AAA AAAAAA ”Alimra Ins AAAAutA. AAAAA under the
AAAAAAA ”AAAAAA AAAAAAAAA” AnulA AA the anAA far this Axhibit. If
yAu‘AAF 3 AAAAAAAA how VGA Amuld AAAA AA AAAAIA AhAA, AA will AA
“lad AA AAAAAWAAA with 3AA. “A AAAAA AA inte AASAAE, tea, in knAA
in; AarA AAAAA the AA;A AA AhAcA AAA AAAAIAA the AAAALAA. AA yum
AAAA A AAAAAA Awica yau cauld AAAA AA? thAr OPﬂgnlwiui ns&asu1A
AAAA AAA Af ygur AApAriAnAe $0 that humane educatienal matArials
AAA AA mare widely distributed.

CaﬁgrAtA1AtiﬁnA an your gaad work:

SAncaraly,

christina SAAVAAA
ArAAAAAnA

CAzlh

'AnclosurA

 

 




     
   
    
     
   
  
  
   
    
   
  
 
   
 
    
   
   
   
  
  
  
     

INDIANAPOLIS HUMANE SOCIETY
3120 East 30th Street
INDIANAPOLIS, INDIANA 46218

 
  

DUDLEY A. BROWN, Education Director November 8 ’ 19 67

INDIANAPOLIS HUMANE SOCIETY 3: E
INDIANAPOLIS ZOOLOGICAL SOCIETY

Animal Welfare Institute / EEK 1)
P. O. Box 3492 N”

- 'N

Grand Central Station g
New York, New York 10017 '

Dear Sirs:

At this year's Indiana State Teacher's Institute we
presented a diSplay of humane educational materials
available to teachers ﬁreewofweharge. We included a
COpy of your booklet fGood Kind gig ;;in our diSplay
and received requests fdrwi¥%??6:. 15 teachers.

AM” ﬂ

     

As we had not made prior arrangements with you to
diSplay samples of your materials, we were hesitant
about including any of them, but couldn't resist the
temptation to show "Good Kind Lion".

If you wish to provide copies of this publication
tO those who expressed interest in it, you can send us
115 COpies and we will mail them (unaltered in any way)
to the teachers, or we could prepare a list of the
names and addresses of those who said they would like
to receive it and you can mail to them directly. If
you prefer the teachers write to you directly, we will
notify them of the proceedure to follow.

Next year we are planning a similiar exhibit of
humane education materials available free of charge to
teachers. If you would like us to exhibit your publi- _
cations, we will be glad to do so. Over 2,400 teachers
attend the Institute from many schools and we feel it
is a good place to promote humane teaching. If you are
interested in this project, I will be glad to give you
more details. This year we took orders for nearly
50,000 pieces of literature.

 

Thank you very much for your interest and cooperation.

Sincerely,

ﬁr; /. 7 * 7

ex ea. ,4, Maw
Dudl y A. Brown
Director of Education




 




3&5 Grovs Street
Orsosll, New Jersey @7bu9
November 17, 1967

Mrs. John Schweppsrlo

33 Gonoord Amomos

White Plains, New York

Dear Mrs. Schoopperle,

How very good of you to send ms the book ”Studying Our
Fellow Mammals”, as well as the lists of other motsriols.

The Humane Education Committee of our woman's club meets
tonight and, I know, will he very impressed with this matsrial.
Initially, they hope to contact the principal of tho local slo~
mentary school, who's already indicated interest. We have some
fine material from tho Kindness Club m and I think this book you
sent might be most effective used for 6th grade.

A little later we'll be contacting tho junior high where
the book on mommals will be of definite interests

This woman‘s club happozs to have members in three local
towns so eventually we will act in schools in each of these towns.

To date, the Woman‘s Glob has sponsoreo jointly with the
Oradell PTA, a flyer on kinéssss to be sent home to all slemsotary
school children.

The enclossd 0119 gives an loss of the cruelty he?@. Thanks

so much for your interest and help.
\3.

@lﬁoerely yours,

."
,4?
' _

Mm,

r x

. -/ J.- :-
‘Misi Thom"s/

/ v C: 7 . f7

4’
:29

 




—-Si’aﬂ Photos by John Kennny

m of Milan cruelty and carelessness.
m birdhu when line. around its legs.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

meme a patrol car goes by the

, ‘ tum about every 15 minutes

, '3 ‘ ‘ ~ resisted 4“ but that ithésmpeulblebthat Chg;
jg” the dun nuy a near y wood '

m - m to ﬂat! me and not visible from the

car

 

directne- ef tile Humane - f. .. .
e! the Unitﬂi’ 3% Size ' j ' ' h pond; The chief said last summer

the through (”we-e53 5’; he? gm! .. ; ;. ‘ A ”£1333 caught a youngster throwing
' M ' I : - , - v ega ﬁrecracker at the ducks and

Mm _ ' 3 m ;- . . ‘g' d 1 ~ I .. ,aad that he] ordered him
‘ ' ‘ : '4 7 '_ﬁ ' ' am back to tile park
Grain Street at: p . - . , , ' 4- 7- ’9‘ 1-”- ~m-~~.~-~..

Fishermen at the ‘ ”

are emanate 9th W3
vhlidren she. Said. 1 ,
that 'a fisherman had ‘ :
missed catching her‘daﬁmrnv
cheek with his book ~,a wild
cast. ”The conditim it the?
duck pond are emailin- “

" '1: cmeltv ” if
She said she saw a gamejesvi
' ‘ I?!“

.2, Mrs. Maxweﬁ “ﬂew that
the Councﬂ sheet in! ofﬂinance
iorhlddmg bicycle riding and ,
timing at the pond
~ ’ ﬂayer Fred Wanda! com.
plained tint he has been accused
.. (at. thanking the CanadiI‘n (inch-I1

 

 




 

 

$9141 35: 1%

mes h. Little " e {heath :3 end it
iii-east hither mammary heheel
Priest River, Idem 83856

‘l‘e ghee K. Little’e excite 3 and h:

hiee aria» sent as the ﬁne 19ch gee ehehe he ere-met the. here
suit ef wile helmet with . he yet eeeheetly eta-he,
thie is; heather; he federal he; and I he threading yeah hetheh
he hm. Vela». Jeheeteh, 1M) Gmeeetem Meet, Rene, wee, 895%,
heeeeee she ie the mm the beget: the hem {eh muemeh er held
heme anti methane to hem it he in the heat. fee may whet he
mite he her, tee. i’erhehe yet have elmey reed sheet her it:
-1 r. 3:? 1» )m a; egg: ., by iﬁrgeehite hem (heed,

19 * e

If yea we let ee km wise H eh the mange, he will heheht
it to the when). eetheritiee. If the med he teak eleee he lend
heleegieg he the {ignited fete tee, it the illegal ether the them. e
Mt. he whieh gee referred. If it we eh mete e Thy ee
tedivieml, it he? he that theee the heed the emeeeehilee eight he
fem. guilty at with he enthale {tittiﬁr the anaemelhy lee eh“
the the ef hematite. WW1“, it Estelle. he heeeeeehy he. heee eel—-
hem Met heels: shame e1; it met. '

he let remee he .» the free» ,_ ya“: the m 339% W will ”hum
he he he the leekeet te help mam» em hheteet mg ml theeteeht

meme-elm

Maths» 3 tweet
heeheuhy

 

 




m .
L $4.

( ‘ r.) ..L+-’ -1}
\ V .5 ) \J ’ .. ‘_
(9 L. ‘1! \' (”Mk in- {\itgj"';v{3" L

,‘W‘uxr-“LJLL” 5 3 L L

C} U... s’m Liz. GCLLOLWVUL OIL/(1“ (A) C‘Wwbm (74 L9], L3 UL LL?“ H .5

 

- .--- --.--(7-.~_-p§31‘ fat}? BJL,...--i3~wij maulﬂbﬂmfj . .---:3:LJ__.._-.C.QLL::WC> Laﬁ— halve...
-L.Lhwmm- amp: gun. .HLL :FUV‘CLLULL..QBLCL<LL Qmm -..--- .

 

 

“H

(«6; LILLLLL LIL—WILL Way; ‘1}— bu'mﬁ CLQICW (23:: -7” ‘thM wwwu-

«MHWM- '

J L 1% m CL, LS u‘rLLLLLL. LLL—a URI; gab/t: and. W .3: MfQ_LA_QZfL£AL ..-- -..- .. - _

-...LLU OLLLQLCL CW3 G ‘ “ 'BQL‘TLLLLCIJCQL LLFPLIXJCQL1AL1N Uni; :"x."n*ﬂ7k.£3er.L: U cw . .. . ,
-thLJg/put. menuLJLLPLLLL.0J~€L.L-\JLLQ.uﬂ/Ugiu}rgujinxgim '
Wirguicbjgi .. b313,: Pg;s52~ik.&"ﬂm $L..LiT)fJ.Lz '11? 4mg. .LLLL. :xtgi‘gmlnumI-Liam
LSLLL‘ruycuﬂj; afﬁrm,

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




ﬁias Rabeeaa Gwealay
68 ?alitmar Driva
ﬁsﬁla Fark, Galifarnia 9&325

ﬂea? gigs Graelqy:

I ragrﬁt the dalmy in replying ta yaur»raquast far
infbrmatian an tha futura cf animals in ﬁfriga. It
1a a praisawnrthyiaabjaet far a grajaat, and I am
nan analeaing mat$rﬁal whiah shauld be of mam ts yam.

Th3 Humana Eduaatinn Institute cfmﬁfrica (Clo Etanﬁard
the Afﬁiaan'ﬁildlife Laadarahip Fanndatiaa {1259 Gan»
naeticutgﬁvanna, E. y., ﬁa3h1ngtﬁn, E. 3.} eaﬁ bath
giva yea addition&l infarmatimn.

Th5 wnadarfnl, larg@ animals oflAfrica Mﬂﬁt anrﬁly ha
prﬁgarV&ﬁ, and we ara vary glad that you are interasted
in helping.

3inca#aly,

Ghr§$tina Stevens
9rﬁsidsnt

08:1h

Enclasuras

 

 

 




Connecticut State Board of Education
Hartford

February 1A, l968

Series: 1967-68
Circular Letter No. C-lB

TO’ Chairmen, Boards of Education
Heads of Science Departments
Superintendents of Schools

w ‘ - -
irom. William J. Sanders
Secretary

Subject. Policy Statement re: ‘Treatment of Animals used for Instruction
in the Schools” ' ‘

The State Board of Education, in regular session on February 7, 1968,
adopted the follOWing policy statement:

”For science to be taught effectively in the schools, there
must be a variety of objects, equipment, materials and
supplies available for study at first hand. Living plants
and animals are included, since they comprise a significant
part of man‘s environment.

”It is the position of the State Board of Education that the
use of living animals as an adjunct to teaching science is
quite appropriate and is to be encouraged under conditions
which insure proper care and treatment for any creatures
used for instructional purposes. This is in keeping with
the requirement of Connecticut Statutes that schools shall
provide 'instruction in the humane treatment and protection
of animals.'

”The State Board Cf Education urges that the following prin-
ciples be observed in carrying on the instructional program
of the public elementary and secondary schools and in any
other schoolusponsored activities:

1. Animals should always be maintained under the
best possible conditions of health, comfort
and well being.

No vertebrate animals should be subjected to
any eXperiment or procedure which interferes
,with its normal health or causes it pain or
distress.

Any experiment which involves the use of ver-
tebrate animals should be carried out by or
under the personal direction of a person trained
and experienced in approved techniques for such
experiments.“

7 _ . ~ . .- .A'.V|.r~. .5: 7“} .‘x -, \.. " l“ ”I15.
I I I} err-m a»; m. . - ' , - .. -- TW"!-‘m1""r‘
I ’ ’ t “ <W‘m'i 60'2“um WWW «— .
, ' ‘ 4 At . c ’ WW .. , WWW
'WV'WWWDW WW WWJKW

 




 




ﬁivgxwﬁﬁgﬁ Eumiﬁr Wamaa'ﬁ'ﬁlub . _ »u
Hﬁ%ﬁﬁﬁ Eﬁﬁﬂﬁ%iﬁﬁlﬁammittas-ﬁmwwrt max. 1%, 193%

. Eha 0g&d$11 ﬁubliavhxbrar«, ahﬁléran'a amatian. will hava-a bulletin
baard ﬁiaylay ﬁaward ttu anyfmf Earwh. Wu h&?ﬁ ari¢rad 33$ pamphlate,
“Gaad Kind Liam” wﬁiwh will hm availablw fax ﬁiatxihatian £$ﬁ$t~ﬁﬁﬁi.

Tha Emﬁrd ﬁiaplﬁy will aarrywamt tha thwmm 9f tha pamphlwt mﬁvar (wast
m&twrial$ far kwﬁtd ﬁpr@xg $2.}

‘Eha wxﬁdgll_ﬁgbrax~ will hﬂVﬁ anﬁthar dimmlay ﬁay Swlﬁ far Ba~ﬁinﬁ
ta ﬂaiﬁais Waak. may 5. wwaaﬁ an the Amwrimﬁn Humana ﬁ$s@ciatian kit gran
ﬁﬁfﬂﬁ ﬁﬁﬂﬁﬂiﬂlly at thia wwak (whiah inaludaa wwﬁtars, animal mﬁxa b¢¢k~
mﬁrka, ﬁta.}. will alga h&V& availabla pamyhlata frwm varimuﬁ humane ar~
ﬁanimatiana ﬁﬁﬁﬂﬂiﬁlly dwﬁignaé,ua daw&1ap fhﬁ ahild'ﬁ apprﬁﬂiﬁtiﬁn af
nature and undﬁrﬁtanding'ef animala and thmix mara (Kindnaaa ﬂlub, ata.)
ﬁlma an @iﬁplay,'fﬁﬂQmmanéed.haak$ an animalw ﬁnﬁ nature.

. ﬁgﬁdall Elamantﬁrz ﬁqhag;. Va hag a‘maﬁting with My. ﬁiaahalli,
Frincipal ta pxu$ant'éur‘$ﬁggaatiana far intredaaing humane adueatign
inaa tha aahaml and laaV& mat@ri&1s fer hia eanaiéaratian. $5 atre$$¢d
tha Club’a intﬁraat in ﬁavalaping abild’ﬁ apﬁrﬁciatian far all lifa ha
livas amang ﬁnd.hia ﬁﬁnaa @f r$$§en$ibilty. We aakad 1) If the Clubzmight
ﬁumply humana ﬂdnaatian kita (fram tha Raﬁ) far k~3rd grada fer Ea Kind
ta ﬁmimala Waak.and.ﬁ&ma kit fer $£haa1 libxary (apprex. ﬁﬁﬁt $14.3

2} If tha Club might maka available fer k¢3rd graée teaghars a taaaher
manual, ”W%E?in§ ﬁnimal Friﬁnda” (east $1. aaah). 3) If tha Club might
diﬁtribﬁtﬁ a brief illuatrataﬁ faiﬁ¢r an kindnw$s, “Th3 Magia Fursa“ fer
kaﬁrd gr&d®$ ﬁnd, gimultan@aualy, éistrihuta ﬂa énﬁthe gradaa a cavar
la?tar, “B£g Gnya Ehaulé Ea Kind,T0 Little guys“ whiah ineludgﬁ an in-
vitati¢n t9 antar a ﬁwﬁtﬁr eantaﬁt.

ﬁr. Qiamhalli w&$ recaptiva ta all thasa ﬁuggaatiana &nd.wa left
$$ﬁ§l®ﬁ @f all with him. %$ alga laft a hmoklet fnam Tha ﬁumana ﬁaaiety
@f ﬁha ﬁnitwﬁ Wtﬁtﬁﬁ, ”ﬁumana Eéuaatien In Th$ Classrwam”, basaé an a
canfmanm bﬁatwaan had my aducatam mm? rapmmntativaa a? national
humang armanizﬁtianﬁ. Tha bwaklat amghagiaaa tha mead ta dmvalep hﬁalthy
attituda$ in aha ahilﬁ tawarﬁ hi$ iatﬁl anvirnnmﬁnt - and maan$ by which
thia might ha ﬂan» in tha gehaolﬁ.‘Wa ask@&.%r. Cicahwlli if tha-ﬂlub
might ﬁw furthwr wazk in tha ﬁﬂhﬁﬁl next yaar and.mwntimnad, mmacifiaally,
apﬁﬁkﬂrﬁ anﬁ films far ¢1a$$1@¢m$. Ha inﬁicmtad a attang intﬂragt in ﬂueh
a prgﬁram. Em haV& & ﬁﬁaﬂﬂé mﬁatimg arrangad with ﬁr. C. far ﬁarﬂh 27, at
whiaﬁ tiaa hﬁ ﬁhauld tall as what wa wiil ha allawad ta d9.

wrw. Quthridga. lﬁt graﬁa taaehwr, will pmrmit ma ta ﬁring a put «at
ta he: alaﬁg an %@r. 21 ta apaak with the children an tha hiatary cf this
ﬁnimal, itﬁ mﬁra anﬁ gala in aux aulture. I willdistxihute "G@@d Kind
%ian” and illugtratadAfﬁlﬁara (calaring baaklats} @n cat mars ta ahildxan.
immﬁtw ﬁeéﬁ

Rantw$$@ri.$¢heol,,Yﬁﬂkanaaek. 0nﬁ ﬁf any m¢mh¢r$ h§$ apﬁrﬂﬁﬂh¢d the

 

haad 9f $hi$ awkwal*w~ew Sﬁmp as a. tha REA humana gdumﬁtian kit and
:Goo? Kiaé Liwn“ pamphlat. Thay wish $0 gamphlats ($1.20} and 4 kits

 




Sammittﬁw ywpmrt.w.ﬁumana Ewuaﬁzian*.. mantinuaﬁ

Rm Wuﬁam ﬁlmmtw‘ W631 ﬁ QM W W? WWW” 1%
gmiag ;m ixy am ﬁxrwnga a'maaziﬂg wfai £35 @Eﬁ ﬁrwﬁiﬂaat ta ﬁxaﬂant @ur
aantamt guilina, “Eig Quyg ﬁhmuld 3% Kind T® Littlm @uya“ fﬁf @ﬁﬁWihla
inwluaiga in that wah@al'a way & Fﬁﬂ Fair. ﬁlﬂﬁ, @ﬁﬁﬁikl? ﬁha ﬁﬁﬂ kita.

ﬁftar ihm Marah‘ 2? mmgting with tha 01&da11 mahawl ?rinmi$&l, Wham
‘Wﬂ lﬁaxn Whﬁt kinﬁ @f gregrmm wa will b» abla ta pwaaaad with thwxa, wa
hapw ﬁm apprmaah ﬁﬁVﬁfﬁl athar ﬁahﬁala. ﬁaving ﬁﬁtﬁbliﬂhad ﬁamathing in
tha Orﬁﬁﬂll ﬁehmal ﬁhaulé mﬁkm it ﬁiMﬁlW! tw imﬁrmduwa thﬁ prwgram in
mthmr $6h$91$ ~ ﬁﬁﬂh &$:

ﬁt. Jaaaph‘syarmchiﬁl ﬁahawl in Gradall (haﬁ Maw Milfard mhilﬁran
£130. W5 hava mwmﬁﬁra whw'nﬂi try in maat With @ha ﬁrinaipal, ﬁrmthmr
Kavin with ”@hw-Mﬁgiw Pursa“ fwldﬁr, {ha ﬁnman¢ Eﬂaa&tiam kitﬁ (far Ba
Kinﬁ ﬁg ﬁnimala Wwwk}.

git. pﬁtﬁr frﬁtﬁﬂﬁicﬁl ggghmal gr: ¢iV@*£hd 3.34 $W$ m abeva.

ingr ﬁdga_ﬁlﬁman§&r; ﬂghaal ﬂimilar mﬁtﬁrial a3 prﬁﬁentad t@ (and
aaeaptaé by) tﬂﬁ “raﬁm; ﬁahwal.

_ 30?,3§0u§3~ WW’VW WWnt ta ﬁh$ ﬁﬁﬁ for_8ampla kit ﬁpaaifiaally daﬁignaﬁ
for gamuts anﬁ hmpa to mutlina wwmw kin&.@f yrwgrﬁm far than.

Girl ﬁaﬁut$_. mama a3 abava.

$h¢ ﬂew 3&rﬁey Branah 9f Thﬁ ﬂumane ﬁmaiaty mf tha ﬁnita£ ﬁtataa,
will do printing fraa far the Club if we will inaluda a mate ta that
effaet an ﬂay matwrial which thﬁy print.

v A mamhﬁr @f thﬂ 333$-ﬁ13 hag mffﬂraﬁ ta ﬁenata tha priae manwy
$0: tha pzapeaad ﬁmatar cantaﬁt far ﬁhw ﬁradﬁll Elamﬁntary ﬁchmal.

Vﬁlarie ﬁaxwall

ﬁwmbﬁra EEJWQ Cammittﬁa, ﬁwﬁﬁ Cmmmittae

 




A WONDERFUL

E'w
»n

NEW BOOK FOR YOUNGSTERS

(f
3"; f

{if " f= a, <:;
, ~34 ate-twee.” ._.. t}

"A. ‘o‘IoN‘S‘é‘i'o‘ ,
o.=$:=:~3§ti:1:§?:='3":$$
O. -

. .

8:55

,,,.
{’32:

”’3'.
0’ 5
4..

A?;'. o 0

THE BEST OF FRIENDS
Charlotte Baker,
Illustrated by the author Cloth: $3.85

Three young friends put their lively ingenuity to work in the cause of
helping homeless animals. Jane, Angelica and Ben first adopted Rachel
the dog, who had been abandoned. While helping Rachel, they were called
upon to rescue an unwanted cat family and an orphaned baby cardinal.
Feeling surrounded by the indifference of adults, the children kept their
spirits high by organizing their own society that would help them to be
the best of friends to needy animals. Ages 8-11. A junior Literary Guild
Selection.

92.}an

ﬁiﬁﬁﬁuiuvvuw

.‘.‘.‘3‘8‘o‘$°v:&'£'&:3°6'

ggggsqgggpy,¢a,
ﬁneu.unmuvvr¢ve

.: 0.0.... 0;. .19.. o o r. o v o o n o o

.....A ,..
.... . . ..
....... .........

. ......... .......
:wa:¢:¢evvvvﬂvv¢:¢ws

t’t'o...o.o.¢.l.o-‘-O.l." ’o'ffa’qs‘a o 0%
000.0..ooooo-nolooo coco
o a 5.. .........- o 550.... 5.3....)
o n no 4‘. . o I

THE KINDNESS CLUB, established by Mrs. Hugh John Flemming K,

.. f‘
.1 l S; 7‘
of Frederiction, New BrunSWick ﬁg) "A

f f ? -‘—‘-T;T-l\
"to awaken peOple to kindness, Q61) JZ-/\,i\.c.-\gwb*~TEAL/V ”inky-‘-
not only to their fellow men, .. ‘ \L,
but to all fellow animals" \(IXKLSNJ- <19 \‘VW'VVCA'LA 6"

is prominently featured in this delightful new book.

NOW AT YOUR BOOKSELLER

musson

BOOK COMPANY

"fr“ . , V (“j r-.} a .. 1 i" A ,. ‘- I
<3 WLJE/Wé’ de/VK \@ ..... ktwi \L’NN L \‘Z-*¢K*“\ .. r: W a
‘7 ,._ f‘ q M a X >

i

r'\

“j :3»..— O . LW lbw» Kl V“ “F

I

 




April :30 , 195:8

Miss Baum. ﬁays
Bax 32hr
Cakwocd, {”3110 145873

‘l‘o: 9mm. ié-iays, mam Bullinger, Jayee Erfard, Care]. McCullough,
Kaml Brown, Sherry Hall, Renee maker, and Tammy ﬁansﬂald:

Yaur letters wasting: capies of ﬁgst m m Cage 9.: mg. sum-—
ME. reached 1.13, and m are happy to send 0m copy for your clan,
but we mgmt than we cannot affard to sand web of yam a free (may.
2% how that you will be able ta use it tagether and that it will
help yam to help animals in mad.

we appreciate your intemst in tha Wham 0f animus and far the
infomthn of your beach”, we am sanding a. ligating cf materials;
available frm the Animal welfare Institute. Th3» (mes maritad With

a red 1.1m mid be availabla (a single copy cf aach) he year teacher
and eauld be kept. an year achml room shalvas $63 you all could 215a
thﬁﬁh

With kind ”gards.

Maser-sly,

Chri aﬁm Suvans
Pm 31:39:21;

(38:11:

Enclamms

 

 

 




 




 




 




‘ \\ 7
/' ’7
.' /
/\
f/,/ I?

73,0777 7777 CM _,
ﬂ \ n / /
\f . I“

 




WWW *~ ‘

”39c: Rm 3 m

, gWﬂx me gm; _ _W
on 01% 5h ”1} \mw

03.31%.» $.01,

 

WM Qt K952 WWW -

M mix 03m «% gmgxm
,, ﬂ MWﬁﬂgg/mjcum

wa

 




 

 

 

 




- [MAM/Chg) WW Jmﬁbﬁ
‘ EC? E0722 3%???

 




 




 

 

 

 

JJJJJ 15’s, 1%8

Jr. JJJJJJ J. JJJJJJlJJ

c/JJJ imam “humbill JJJJJJ
JJiJJJJ JJJJJJJJJJ

J9 JJJJJJJ JJJJJ

JJJJJJ 5, JJJJJJJ

CJJJJJ

JJJJ Jr. JJJJJJIJJ:

_ 1‘ w J‘iaﬁmﬁ‘ilS JJJ fan '
«Jaggn JJJJJJ JJJ JJJt JJ

’JJJJth Jf JJJJ JJJJJ.

JJJJJJJ, JJ JJJ JJJJJJ ta JJJJ V with yJur JJJJJJJ JJ JJJJ erty JJJJJJ
C gf. ~w , ' 1 ' J t - .ﬁ-uJJZS, VJJiJ CJrJ 0f J .Jri~
.U, -.1«_. , 1 ~y¢ : J -~‘ . ThJ firJt tJJ Jre Jﬁat July to
JJJJJtifiJ ithiﬁJtiJJJ JJJ JJJJJJJJJJJJJ. ThJ third, ﬁi’mal? Jr; .J -
JJ bJ JJJJ JJ VJJ iJ JJJJJJJJ if VJJ JJJJ tJ JJy'?f JJJtJ JJJ JJJy, which
is JJJJ JJJJJ JJJ JJ JJJ JJJJJJ tJ JJJJJJJ JJJ JJJ JJJ veterinarians Jr
JJJJJJJJJJ Jith IJJJJJJJJJJJ.

JJJIJJJJ JJ J lthiJJ Jf‘JJJJJJJlJ Jf JiferJJt tyJJJ Jinlable frJJ the
JJiJJI JlfJJJ InatitutJ. I JJJJ JJJJJJ in PJ J thJJJ JJJJJJJJ er JJhJJlJ
JJIJJ tJJ JJllJJJ 1JJJ1. I JJJlJ r$QQMJJy ﬁg ; g1__~ ' w -~T
JJLJJJJL”,JJJ JJJJ JT‘JJJ 1 ijmﬁlﬁ JJ yJJ. JJ yJJ Jill JJJJ, JJJ tJJJJJr
Jay JJJJJJJ JJJ fJJJ JJJy Jf JJJJ JJJJJ JJJJJlJ.

JJJJ JJJJ thJrJJt iJ JJJJJJJJJJJ.
JiJJJrle,

ChriStiﬂJ SJJJJJJ
JJJJiJJJt

Cleh

JJJlJJJJJ

«‘L JJ‘J- .‘ w #9 _ TL J: V ' ‘ r 0' . a _ _
J ﬁ“ ' J: W‘JW‘J i . - *1 . 1. J,” «i , 4:3:er s > - -
(Eu ‘5?» ‘3“- - ‘ : ~ .‘,- - \ : ‘ In: ,_ ,-:‘.;~ , * ‘7 1-: * 5 V ’ ‘ i'ﬂ‘nfmidw ’ “ ’9‘ " “" ‘

‘ v

 




'Spfeckley, Canada

This is an Intermediate Public
School ~ therefore no note that
helwants 40 ea of CQ,AE & 50 BC.

Heépaid for Walker ESEM SOFM.

I tut that on label with l E-

, V 3 l m \ ,‘L ‘t
x f‘ “3 ,g ~3‘" ‘ <
86 W Lu"; w x
E g I r

5' ’3;

 




3
AVAILABLE TO VETERINARIANS from the AW WELFARE INSTITUTE I

- [2/ CCMFOiTABLE gUAR ERSFOR LABORATORY ANIMALS. New revised edition, 103 pages,
“7’6 Cea7aeé, be. illustrated. FREE on request to veterinarians and scientific institutions

/ planning to build, remodel, or re-equip animal quarters.

, ‘3ANIMAL EXPRESSIONS. A photographic footnote to Charles Darwin's ﬁgression

,L/o CA7W~ of the Mo___t____ions in Man and Animals. Foreword by F. J. Mulhern, D.V. M. 51+
. pages. FREE on request-.- to veterinarians and persons employed by research

institutions in the management of animal colonies and care of animals.

,/ a. , E7 INFORMATION REPORT of the Animal Welfare Institute, issued quarterly, four
[1.0 W?) - pages. One year's subscription FREE to veterinarians.
._ , ' O "'
, I U LABORATORY DOGS. 16 mm. sound film showing humane care and housing of dogs
in an experimental surgery laboratory. Produced by Crawley Films. For one
week's rental, $3; purchase, $50.

I] HANDLING LABORATORY ANIMALS. 16 mm. sound film showing proper handling of
twelve common species of laboratory animals. For one week's rental, $3;

purchase, $75.

U _A_N_ INTRODUCTION
Croft, Ph.D., M.R. O. v.3.

Animal Welfare. 30 pages. Price, 50¢.

[7 THE PRINCIPLES OF HUMANE EXPERDIENTAL TECHNIQUE. By w. M. S. Russell and
R. L. Burch. Published by Charles C. Thomas. 228 pages. Price, $6.25.

~ HQ .2 STU GOUR FEILON mommi. By Ernest P. Walker. Published by the Animal
, 7 [6073?» Welfare Institute. 172 pages, 152 illustrations. Price, $1.00.

Third edit - FREE
‘50 Clo-7W4— on request to veterinarians and persons employed in scientific institutions
where animals are used.

AmINISTR‘ATcRs ARE INVITED To PLACE ORDERS FOR EACH PERSON IN THE INSTI-
TUTION To WHOM TERI WISH To GIVE A FREE COPI. PROFESSORS IN COLLEGES OF
MEDICINE, VETERle MEDICINE, PHARMACY, AND AGRICULTURE, WHO ARE TEACH-
ING PROPER CARE OF LABCRATORI ANIMALS To THEIR CIASSES, WILL BE SENT A
FREE COPI FOR EACH STUDENT ON REQUEST. PLEASE INDICATE THE NUMBER NEEDED.

Please send me the items checked above: ,

Address {/24104. Z/ﬂﬂf 21.04544 41/ JA/

 

Institution ,

 

Remarks

 

 




3Q‘HQQQQ “1,3,

 

QQ, QQQ. QQQQ

QQQQQQQQQQQ

QQQQQw QQQQQ QQQQQin QQQQQQ
QQQQQQQQ QQQQQQ

QQQQ QQQ*QQQQQ QQQQ
QQQQQleQ, EQQQQQQ QQQQQ

QQQQ QQ. QQQQQ

QQ QQQQQQQQ QQ QQQQ EQQQQQ Vﬁ ”Q; anlﬁ QQQ Q QQQQQQQ
QQ QQQQQQQQ QQQQQQQ QQQQ *QQ QQQQQQ QLQQQ:Q EQQQQQQQQ QQQ QQQQQ
QQQQQQQQ QQQQQ QQ QQQQ QQQQ QQQ ?1Q QQ

QQQ will QQQQQQ QQQ QQQQQQQQQ QQQQQQ QQ QQQ QQ thQ QQQQ
QQQ QQQQ QQ QQQQQQQQ QQLQ 3f QQQQ QQQQ QQ QQQQQ QQQQQQQQQl

QQQQQQ QQQ QQQQQ QQQQQQW thQ QQQQ QQ QQQ QQQQ QQQ QQQQQQQQQ QQ

QQ QQQQ QQ QQQQ QQQQQ QQ QQIQ QQQ QQQQQQ QQQ QQQQ
QQQQ iQQQQQQQ QQ QQQQQQQQQQQ.

QQQQQQQQQ,

(QQQQ .3... :: QQQQQQQ 'MQQQ
”leQQQ QQQQ QQQQQQQQQ

QQQQQQQQQ

gﬁmglu W 3W 69056?“

 

 




INSTRUCTIONAI.MATERIAL CENTER
HIGHLAND SCHOOL
6701 Darmstadt Road
Evansville, Indiana 47710

Dear Sir:

we are in the process of establishing an Instructional
Material Center at our school. 'We are a K-8 school with an
enrollment of 950 students and a faculty of 38. Our average
class section is 36 students.

Due to the immediate need for free educational material
and the broad scoope of our needs it is impractical to Specify
individual materials. For this reason, and as you are a source
of educational material, we are asking you to send us any free
material that you have available as educational aids aﬁd‘which-mw“”
you feel will be of benefit to us.

Thank you9

.ﬂ/Va

. King
Coordinator
Instruction.Material

 




ﬁr. Ragga! Walk”, Dim-em?
Inwtruat&mmal ﬁﬂsanraas €&ntar
Iawa State ﬁmiV$rsity

31E Cartiag

$m$§ Imam fZ‘EQIQ

 

 

 

 

imam ﬁr.‘§¢lk9rz

Ia ?as§amaa ta yam? iattsr a? Sagtambar lﬁﬁh,‘%a ara a

ﬁﬁm

' ma ta gar mailing liat to raeeiva mar ﬁmarﬁarky faf#?@%,¢g&
“wt? I ‘ .; '

Enalwagd ia & liaﬁiﬁg af'matarﬁ&1g availa%&a fﬁﬂﬁ ﬁﬁa ﬂﬁamﬁl'%@lw
iave Ia$%&&%t®. £3 yam wiil sag; ww marmally gaggly fv$a giggia
ﬂﬁ§ias of $a§.manu&i$ an §$aah9r$ an raquasgn §awav&rg 1% %@&l&
gﬁﬁaar f¥am yam? lattar thaé ﬂag twanﬁy aaaias a? ;;rs..§;§ gag
4§§£§ qf.§ma” §§§ﬁ§;§,whiah gnu ara waguagting will ha awaﬁ ﬁg
larga mumﬁmwﬁ 9f ﬁaaah$va, thug aemamwliahiﬁg the guygaga far
whiah ﬁhay wara pa@&£gheﬁ. ?h$?afarag Wﬁ arﬁ ﬁanéimg 3mm ﬁwgmty
¢9p$$g unﬁar $§§&?&%ﬁ aawar.

It maul-é: m mmm if ma mum 531% m agﬁzﬁﬁaml inﬁ'mwtim.
an new ywur ﬂantar awamatas ﬁe thak ma aﬁm ammpar&ﬁa with yam mara
affaativaly 1a ammana @ﬁmeatiamgi aamiviﬁiaﬁ.

 

ﬁimaarQEyg

$hri3tima Stavans
@rw&iﬁanﬁ

Tﬁslh

Eaglgﬁarﬁ

ﬁﬁﬁﬁwﬁﬁﬁ Q$W@r w ﬁﬁiMV’

*Mgmzf'EW [W’f‘ﬁW 52%
‘ﬁalnlliz ‘ , . . “

 

 




This eighteen—year-
My B aCk-Yﬂrd old boy operates his own
clinic for injured animals.

R€habi1itati0n C€Ht€ Here he tells of the

beguiling habits of his
By EDDIE WETTACH grateful convalescents.

“Children and grownups have been glad to ﬁnd some place where they could bring hurt animals and not be turned away,” says the author. Below he feeds a foundling robin.

N... ‘._~_.».‘

1
i
l
l
l
g
i
3
:'

 




ne sunny summer afternoon about six
years ago, when I was twelve, I walked
_ around the block to see my friend
Johnny McGuire. Like me, he had been rais-
ing pigeons, and he had just had some bad luck.
One way to teach a young pigeon to ﬂy is to
toss it a foot or two into the air when it is
about ﬁve weeks old, catching it if it doesn’t
take off. But Johnny had been trying too early
and too high. Squeeks, the three-week-old
mixed-breed that he had thrown off his garage
roof, just hadn’t made it. When I got there the
pigeon was ﬂuttering on the hard ground, one
of its wings dislocated and bent under it.

I had just ﬁnished reading a library book
about animal and bird care, so I knew what to
do. I rushed Squeeks to my house, carefully
put the wing back into place and tightly taped
it to her trembling body. She moped around
the coop with my other ﬁfteen or so pigeons
for several weeks before I cut the bandages off.
The wing seemed to have healed.

For weeks my friends and I watched her,
wondering whether Squeeks ever would make
her ﬁrst ﬂight. She did it quite unexpectedly
on a bright fall afternoon. One minute she was
walking on the ground, quietly hunting for
dropped seed. The next she was air—borne.
Proud of her accomplishment, she circled and
recircled our yard before ﬁnally coming down
to earth again.

Squeeks now was a ﬂying pigeon instead of a
crippled one. And I had found a hobby I
liked—helping injured animals.

That’s how I came to start an animal-reha-
bilitation center in the back yard of our seven-
room house in Nutley, New jersey, a New

York suburb just fourteen miles from Times
Square. Since the day Squeeks ﬂew, I have
guided hundreds of birds and other animals
through my center. Some were just homeless,
abandoned by their parents or orphaned
through accident. Some were injured creatures
which I found in the woods and open parks
near Nutley, or which were brought to me by
some kind neighbor or teacher. Children and
grownups around Nutley have been glad to
ﬁnd a place where they could bring hurt ani-
mals and not be turned away.

Although I didn’t start my animal hospital
to make money, it turned out that there was a
proﬁt in it. For, after I have restored my pa-
tients to health, many of them make good pets.
Over the years I have sold quite a few of the

 

On a visit to New Jersey’s Story Book Farm, which

graduates of my back-yard center to pet shops
around Nutley and to Story Book Farm, a pri-
vate zoo in Parsippany, New Jersey, which
shows small animals in settings from children’s
stories. The summer before last I sold two
crows, which I found in a park, for ﬁve dollars
each. Ana injured hawk I had saved went for

ten dollars. Some 200 hamsters and black

mice, which I raised myself, brought in thirty-
nine dollars more. All together I have made
around $500 thus far from my hobby—and
that money comes in handy now that I’m
eighteen, have graduated from high school
and will go to Montana State University in
September.

I made no money out of Squeeks, my ﬁrst
patient, and I never wanted to. She was prac-
tically a member of the family—so much so
that each time I came into the yard, often with
friends or neighbors, she would swoop out of a
corner of the sky and land on the top of my
head. Pigeons like to show off, too, I found.

Friendly as she was, Squeeks did run away
from home once in a while. One day after a
long absence, she returned with a handsome
friend, a black-and-white male that I recog-
nized from pictures in" my pigeon books as a
tufted nun. Then several days later the two of
them ﬂew away together. I thought that I had
seen the last of Squeeks. But one cold Novem-
ber night, after she and her mate had been
gone all summer, I heard a noise at the kitchen
window, her favorite feeding station. There
was Squeeks, alone. She stayed with us all
winter, spending the cold nights on the land-
ing leading to our cellar. When spring came,
her missing mate returned. I felt sure that he
had been held captive all winter in someone’s
coop and that he ﬂew to Squeeks the ﬁrst time
he was let out. After their reunion the two
pigeons ﬂew away together, and that was the
last I saw of them.

My experiences with Squeeks set the pattern
for my animal hospital. Principally, it is a
spring-through-fall operation. Early in the
year I ﬁnd a lot of newly born birds and ani-
mals getting into trouble. During the hot sum-
mer months many of these patients and train—
ees graduate—just in time to make room for
the accident patients of early fall. When the
cold winter winds begin to blow, almost all my
patients are on the wing or back in the woods.

This seasonal schedule works out well for
both me and my family. In the summer, when

 

Two girls found this pigeon with a broken

Photographs by Harry Soltzmon

things are going full blast, I am at home to
take care of the animals. During the winter,
when I’m at school, mother pitches in to give
noon feedings to the few that are around.
Luckily for me she likes animals, for in our
small, Cape Cod-style house with a ﬁfty-by-
ﬁfty-foot back yard, even a few animals are
bound to seem like a lot when they get under
foot.

Nancy, my ﬁfteen-year-old sister, is fond of
animals, too, but she draws the line at help-
ing with things like snakes and alligators,
which I have on hand once in a while. My
brother Tommy, only seven, fears none of my
patients—not even the snakes. Dad, busy dur-
ing weekdays with his job as an assistant exec-
utive in the budget department of the Public
Service Electric and Gas Company, a utility
company in Newark, gives me a hand only on
weekends.

When I get new animals, like the two jet-
black crow babies which a boy brought to my
center in the summer of 1957, I borrow books
from the public library and read everything
I can about the animals’ habits, food and
diseases. And I learn from experience too.
Sometimes the lessons are sad ones. Those ﬁrst
two crows lived a few weeks on a diet of liver
and beef strips; then one accidentally stran-
gled himself on the chicken wire of the cage
I had built for them. While I was burying this
crow, some animal—a dog, I think—broke
into the cage and killed the other one.

My next pen, for the two baby crows I found
abandoned in a patch of woods near our house
last summer, was stronger and had smaller
wiring. So these two made it past babyhood.
Then their legs grew weaker and weaker and
their bodies heavier and heavier. I thought it
looked like rickets, and added calcium to their
diets in the form of cuttlebone scrapings. It
put them on their feet again, and they were
soon able to ﬂy. These were the crows I sold
to Story Book Farm. A few months later I saw
them on television when some of the farm’s
animals were shown on a New York children’s
program. I was pretty proud that day, as a
matter of fact. Besides my crows, the show fea-
tured a goat and several geese that I had also
raised and sold to Story Book.

Last spring I rescued four sharp-taloned
sparrow hawks—then just roly-poly puffs of
bird life—from the roof of a tall building. A
storm had destroyed (Continued on Page 60)

 

He keeps small animals like this hamster and
his more critical cases in a cage in his bedroom,
where they often roam free while he studies.

 

has bought many of his animals, Eddie gives a
two-week-old Toggenburg kid a bottle of milk.

wing and brought it to Eddie for help. When
his wild patients recover, he releases them.

    




For 190 years the world ’s ﬁnest Gin drinks

have been createdaround Gordon’s . . . First
distilled in 1769, Gordon’s Gin is still traditionally distilled
for authentic quality! Lend added color to your entertaining
—serve any of many authentically ﬁne cocktails, slings and
ﬁzzes you can make with Gordon’s Gin.

W... a... 1.7.. GORDON'S GIN

IOO% NEUTRAL SPIRITS DISTILLED FROM GRAIN 0 90 PROOF 0 GORDON'S ORY GIN CO. LTD.. LINDEN. NJ.

 

 

 

 

THE

SATURDAY EVENING POST

My Back—Yard Rehabilitation Center

(Continued from Page 21)

their nest and left them orphaned. 1 gave
all four the same treatment, good warm
cotton nests and strips of beef and eye
droppers full of water. But one of the birds
had a crippled wing which never healed,
and another a permanently damaged leg.
Either would have been easy prey for
animal .prowlers. Sol found good homes
for those two when they were grown and
tamed. They are much better off as pets
than if they were left near their nests to die.

Their two brothers, hoWever, grew to
healthy adulthood. One warm summer
day they ﬂew high up into our willow
tree. There was a brief pause, a glance
back at the yard that had been their home
for many long months, and back to their
own world ﬂew two more of my patients.

When an animal needs special atten-
tion I transfer it to the big, six-by-two—
foot cage that I built to ﬁt into a corner
of my room. There I can keep a close eye
on the patient. There, too, the animal usu-
ally is given more freedom and allowed
to roam around the room while I am
studying. Somehow I seem to become
fondest of these pets that cause me the
most trouble.

Chip was a clever gray squirrel who de-
manded extra treatment. He came my
way when a neighbor, cleaning out a
chimney, found two tiny, helpless baby
squirrels tumbled from a nest torn beyond
repair. The mother squirrel was missing.
The neighbor had heard of my center, and
he asked if I would adopt the two orphans.

I took them in, of course. As young
squirrels have to be kept at just the right
temperature until their fur coats develop,
1 hastily made an incubator for these two
by putting a fifteen-watt light bulb,
shielded by a tin can, into a small card-
board box ﬁlled with cotton. 1 fed the
babies warm milk from an eye dropper
every three hours around the clock for
about two weeks. And let me tell you,
that was an awful job. I felt like a: tired
mother until the night feedings were over
and I could switch those squirrels to baby
cereal and, ﬁnally, to sunﬂower seeds.

Despite the best care I could give them,
one of the squirrels died—but the other
managed to survive and became a lively
companion. That was Chip. When he got
a little older he would sometimes scamper
out my open window onto the roof, then
come back in, half an hour later, chatter-
ing all about his adventures. When I was
at school, he would spend the day on the
roof, never coming indoors until I came
into my room. And, strangely, he never
attempted to get down from the roof to
escape to his own world.

Yet too much freedom is not always
good either. I almost lost Chip because of
it. He discovered some tubes of oil paint
in my room one evening, and when I
found him he was covered with purple
paint and in pain. Quickly I forced a large
dose of Epsom salts down his throat
with an eye dropper. Even then he almost
died. His fur was soaking wet from a high
fever for days, and he became terribly
thin. But I put him back on his baby diet
and, to everyone’s surprise, he lived.

It was that summer, when Chip was
about six months old, that mother and
dad decided on a trip to Florida. Mother
has acute rheumatoid arthritis, and the
doctor thought that taking it easy in the
sun might help her. I was able to farm ~out
the parakeet, the pigeons, the rabbits and
the chickens who were lodging with us
that year to friends and relatives. But no-
body wanted a mischievous young squir-
rel like Chip. Not only was he noisy, but
once in a while, when frightened, he
would run up the leg and then onto the

shoulder of the nearest person. This had
an unnerving effect on some people. Be-
cause Chip seemed too young to be set
free, I decided that he would just have to
make the lO75-mile trip with dad and me
in the car. Mother, Nancy and Tommy
were going separately by plane to save
mother the long car trip.

Dad wasn’t eager for Chip’s company,
but he was willing, so I brought along a
two-by—two—foot cage. Chip didn’t care
for it. Most of the time he roamed around
the back Seat of our car, exploring all the
out-of-the-way corners and the dark spots
under the seats. That is, he spent his time
there when he wasn’t climbing around my
head or in and out of my shirt. Only when
we stopped for gas or meals did Chip go
into his cage.

In Daytona Beach, where we met the
rest of the family, Chip spent a wonderful
three weeks exploring the nooks and
crannies in our motel rooms while the rest
of us swam and ﬁshed and went boating.
Then dad and I started driving back to
New Jersey. Mother’s arthritis had im-
proved, but still not enough to let her
travel by car. Dad and I had plenty of
company, though. A horned toad and a
young alligator shared the back seat with
Chip. '

Chip’s friends were all right in the hot
car, but I did not like leaving Chip when
we went into air-conditioned restaurants
for meals. So I found a way to smuggle
him into even the largest and most im-
pressive places—inside my shirt. He was
very co-operative, and showed his tiny
nose only for a moment or two at a time
when he reached out to munch loudly on
the pieces of lettuce I found for him.

Nobody ever noticed Chip in the res-

taurants, but we almost caused a riot one
night in a North Carolina motel when the
owner unexpectedly dropped in with fresh
linen. He had never before seen a gray
squirrel racing around his room, with a
heady-eyed horned toad sitting unblink-
ingly nearby, and a two-foot alligator
sloshing around in the shower stall. Only
our promise to keep the three animals
locked in the car for the rest of the night
saved dad and me from sleeping out there
with them.

Chip was not the only animal who did
a lot of traveling with us. In the winter of
1954 we went west in the family trailer to
see if the Arizona sun would help moth-
er’s arthritis. About noon on January
twelfth—I remember the date because it
was my thirteenth birthday—a dirty black-
and—white puppy, looking something like
a springer spaniel, came cringing into our
Tucson trailer park. She had just been
chased with a big stick by the motel
owner next door. She needed a friend
badly, someone to pet her and feed her. I
did both.

After that I knew that I wanted to keep
her. But it wasn’t that easy. Five of us
were living in our trailer; mother and dad
pointed out that there wasn’t much space
for even a small dog. So I took her to the
Pima County dog shelter. Ten days later,
however, when they were about to lead
her to the gas chamber because no one
had claimed her, mother and dad changed
their minds and said that I could use my
$6.50 in birthday money to pay the charges
and take her home. I almost gave up when
I was told at the shelter that the charges
came to nine dollars. Then the man said
something like, “Well, she’s only a small
puppy. She didn’t eat much. You can
have her for $6.50.” I carried Spotty
home in my arms. My ﬁrst dog.

One week later, just as Spotty and I
were getting to know each other, my fam-

 




July 18, 1959

ily hurriedly decided to return to New
Jersey. Dad’s legs were crumpling under
him. A Tucson doctor thought it‘was the
ﬂu, but when the legs got worse dad sus-
pected spinal trouble, which might have
meant a long stay in the hospital. He sold
the trailer .and arranged for the car to be
freighted east, while I managed to get
Spotty into a small shipping cage for the
long trip by express across the continent.
Then the ﬁve of us ﬂew home, jammed
into the four front seats of an airliner.
Eighteen hours after leaving Tucson—
long before Spotty arrived—dad was in a
New Jersey hospital. It was polio.

Dad’s paralyzed legs and right arm
conﬁned him to the Essex County Isola-
tion Hospital in Belleville and, later, in
the Kessler Institute for Rehabilitation in
West Orange for seven months. But with
the help of the good Lord, wheel chairs,
stroller, long leg braces and special
crutches, he learned to walk again. He is
now almost back to normal.

Spotty stayed with us a long time. I put
the shipping cage in a warm spot next to
the kitchen stove; it became her dog
house. For years she helped me search for
other animals along the dense forests of
the Appalachian Trail, only sixty miles

That’s My
Little Leaguer!

All season, balls have
whizzed right by

His scared but hopeful
nine—year eye.

Now comes the WHACK that
brings the pride out:
He didn’t strike out! Man!

He ﬂied out!

Sally Treadwell

from Nutley, where dad used to take us
until I learned to drive myself. For a
while she had patients of her own. Her
ﬁrst puppy, whose father was a mixed
breed from the neighborhood, died. The
six she had from her next two litters,
whose fathers we never were sure of, grew
strong on a diet of cereal and meat. All of
them went to happy homes in and around
Nutley. But Spotty is dead, run over by a
car last summer.

One patient I had a lot of success with
was Robbie, a red-breasted robin found
wandering confused and bewildered in
one of the main corridors of Nutley High
School in the spring of 1957. A kind
teacher tried to locate the baby’s family,
but it was nowhere to be found. He needed
attention, besides; he was limping and he
seemed weak, possibly from hunger. The
teacher, who had heard of my center,
brought him to me for help.

Robbie’s chances for survival seemed
good. Right from the start he seemed
eager to co-operate. I constructed a cot-
ton nest for temporary quarters for him.
Then I tackled the food problem, drib-
bling water into him from an eye drop-
per, giving him bits of fruit or chopped
meat or occasional worm titbits I dug up
in the back yard. I have since been told
that the water wasn’t too good an idea,
for baby birds can get along without it,
and sometimes water can actually be
harmful to them. But Robbie grew healthy ,
and his limp disappeared.

From the moment Robbie started ﬂy—
ing, about two weeks after he came to me,
he started getting into trouble. One day
he entered a hole in a neighbor’s screened
porch, then couldn’t ﬁgure how to get out
again. A tirade of frantic screeches soon
brought help—a lot of it—including half

a dozen anxious ladies from the neighbor-
hood. Another time he became‘curious
about a neighbor’s collapsible plastic
swimming pool—so curious that he fell
in. Mother found a sorry-looking wet
robin crying at the open kitchen door.

As Robbie grew older, however, his
temperament seemed to change. He be-
came less friendly, less interested in hu-
man beings, more independent. Then, just
at dusk one evening, it happened. He an-
swered the call of the wild and ﬂew away
with a ﬂock of robins to spend his ﬁrst
night away from home. He returned often
after that, but never seemed the same.
Once we saw him even dive-bomb the
crippled hawk with which he had been
raised. That fall, when the red-breasted
robins ﬂew south, Robbie was with them,
looking just like the rest except for his
smaller size and the pinkish color of his
chest. Apparently, living with people had
made him just a little different.

Next spring, though, Robbie was back,
announcing his return with noiSy screeches
outside our kitchen window. Then he
found a mate and was soon busily engaged
in raising a family. His babies, however,
were, always kept at a safe distance. Even
Robbie himself never comes too near me
any more. But whenever I spoke to him
last summer he still couldn’t resist twitch-
ing his tail excitedly and hopping just a
little closer.

Robbie was pretty popular with the

neighborhood. Many of the boys and
girls around our block have given me a
hand with the animals over the years, al-
though not all of my patients have been
welcomed by their parents. One year
someone complained to the Nutley Board
of Health, and I had to sell the thirty to
thirty-ﬁve-pigeons I had then. Whoever
made the complaint, however, couldn’t
blame me when the pigeons got away
from their new owner, ﬂew home and
spent weeks sitting around on the neigh-
borhood roofs, hoping to be allowed back
in our yard.

There were a lot of funny looks,
too, the time I bought a chestnut mare

‘for $125 out of my center’s earnings,

and they unloaded her from a van in front
of my house. I was planning to keep her
in a Nutley stable, as I did for a year or
so, but I guess the neighbors thought that
she was going to live in the back yard with
my other guests. And one time when a
snake that I had found in the woods died,
the garbage man was pretty surprised to
ﬁnd him in our refuse can the following
morning. He was so startled, in fact, that
he ran over to the house next door and
asked for an aspirin. '

Still, even though my hobby sometimes
gives me more trouble than the neighbors
think it’s worth, I’m going to stick with it.
Have you ever seen a bird that has fallen
from its nest? It’s usually a tangled mess
of feathers and limbs. When you see the
same bird ﬂying gracefully and effortlessly
to the top of the tallest willow—well, it
just makes you feel good all over. You
feel even better when you see a former un-
fortunate like Robbie, all grown up now,
proudly return to the back yard to show
off his unsteady brood.

I guess that my interests have always
been tuned to the outdoors. Once, when I
was in the sixth grade, I took up the cello,
but it wasn’t for me. I turned to the guitar
and songs from the West, which I still
play. If all goes the way I hope it will, I
plan to spend my life in the open, maybe
in range management or in forestry in
Alaska or the West. I liked it out there
when I used to take camping trips in the
trailer with mother and dad.

However things turn out, you can be
sure of one thing. Somewhere in my fu-
ture there will be another rehabilitation
center for animals—a bigger one.

T H E E N D

 

, distilled to an absolutely neutral

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

When you mix your favorite vodka
drink with Gordon’s Vodka, you taste
only the full ﬂavor of your favorite
mixer! Gordon’s Vodka—uniquely

quality—mixes so subtly with any
ﬂavor you never know it’s there!
(Nor does anybody else.)

80 AND 100 PROOF - DISTILLED FROM GRAIN - GORDON'S DRY GIN CO. LTD.. LINDEN. N.'J.

 

 

   




March 13.; a, 1959

ﬁr“ T%mmﬁﬁ 3. ﬁarriﬁgtnm
31133303" EEG‘E’QM Eﬁaﬁgﬁra
iﬁlﬁ'ﬁaﬁﬁaam ﬁvemuﬁ

V?

4;: 1:, a, ., , F > “r W ‘3'" a} fix-4* *1.“ w “’9; ‘
wgw lﬁfﬁ 94, ﬂaw fark
3&3? ﬁra ﬁar?:mgﬁmﬁ,

Thank yam f0? yam? lettar a5 Fm%rm3§y 23th, an& we apﬁraciate
Very'mmah yﬂu? affar £9 he af aaﬁﬂianaa. if game maﬁa ﬁriaaa, aw
ﬁertajmly aﬁgﬁi gall an yum, and maamwhile we have adﬁad gnur
game ﬁg an? mailing 113%, $0 ?&Cﬁi¥@ an? imfﬂrmatiaﬁ Regarta
ﬁrgularlge ii we hapgana that wg hmé already heard ef the fine
wark ﬁﬁiﬂg ﬁgae h§;?aal ﬁarretﬁ an Lama Island, ané had mantianad
it im mma mf war Re§mrts {a gang sf wﬁish Z enclsga}. If ﬁg have
Sﬁﬁﬁa iﬁ an imgae in tha agar fuﬂmrﬁg we ﬁhauld 11kg var” much ta
tail 9f yam? apiaméiﬁ wark $39. if ymu mania care in send u&

L

’4’,

adﬁiﬁfaﬁal iazaym&tian 3%ﬁmt'yﬁu? wmyig wa weuld be glgé ta havg it.

5g$in with mmcﬁ awnrﬁﬁiatimn $9? $11 thaﬁ yam ara ﬁaing ta hglp

ﬁ§a 8&3$@ mf aanﬁgrvatiamg w 33

Sincerely yaurg,

Estalla Eraper
ﬁﬁﬁa Executive Sacratarg

 




JUNIOR FOREST RANGERS
1215 Nelson Avenue
New York 52, New York
LUdlow 8-4547

February 28, 1960

Miss Estella Draper
Executive Secretary
Animal welfare Institute
22 E. 17 Street

New York 3, New Yerk

Dear Miss Draper,

Thank you very much for your letter dated Feb. 17.
I must apologize for not answering sooner, however, I
have been travelling quite a bit.

.Again thanks for calling my attention to the "Rain
of Deat " in your bulletin. I attended with interest'
the pesticide sessions at the National Audubon Society's
convention this year and have read substantial material
on this crucial subject.

I feel that on might wish to get in touch with
the young man (18 who heads the Nassau County Animal
Patrol, with information on the Institute. His name
is Paul Garrettand the address is 166 Toronto Ave,
Massapequa, L.I., N.Y.

Garrett's force consists of about 25 motorized
youths (male and female) skilled in caring for injured
animals and administering domestic and wild animal codes.
Their volunteer cars are equyped with two-way radios and
red signal lights as well as a myriad of animal rescue
and care items.

If you feel that there is anything I can do to
aid in your work please call upon me.

Thanking you again for your kind letter, I an
Cordially,

Md“...- ' ‘
”v"

I” --

Thonas D. Harrington ?

 




 

 

333333 .3 3M
‘33 3.33.333? .3333 *3:

“3.233333333333333

3’33: 3???? 133} 33333:?

34.33%! {1.3342

3': M3335 :3 m3;
”33.303331373133333 3.... :33

{“3 333*

53' ﬁn {we
:33“ 9 U

I a w ' ~ 4'1”"
3335: 3 :33.

333333333333 3:3 333:3 3

"2! r at K

33333.33? 3:331:13 2.33:3 3.133343333332333

333333.333.

\)-&M: W

3333 «:3 351W .3:

.33.... 3:33.33... 3.3333“; 333
l

. [1)
EM
3:? 3.33; .£ 3’3" .3.

mam amt?
$23.22.,

3‘33

’1":
'37:

A" . )3 ‘ﬁ‘
‘33? «352.? 33.33:}

3%: ’7?" E?“ ‘33:"? “g 3; WA.“ *3" *3 (15'3“ .' .125. ..
73.3.“: €33 1’" 3 33.3 3 :3 3.3 3. 33:535.; 32%. ﬁ“ '

3.33

Pi“?!

a-«rxJ:

50%;
574‘” 35’: 3?.

V'ghgd.‘ Eff“; ”a:

33m”: 3‘.

3.33333 ~

my WV»

33 n
-13; ”“437“ 5': ’3 M 3 3 W3
"5’ id'fjei ‘3» 33:31:33... ﬁ‘é 2.321539

43:33:33. :33: 3.333333353333339

3:33.:

333333.? 3-33.33... 33:13:33.3: 13:33
3:333:33 33%«3333333333 3333:3333 3:33.33
333:3 3.33333. «33:: 3333:3333, :3.
33:93:33... 3333 33333 3.33 3.33;}:
”LQC'E. 3333;333:2343

_ 233.333.33.333. 33.33
333333333:

:33: 33.3.. 3.33 3533.33.3-

«gnmﬁ

€5.23

33:3: 33:33 «333.3333

3,4,,ng “1&5; 3&4- 3’ $~Vb
3.3333233 3.33:3

633333333 333333333333
WW

£33333: 3.33.“ 3333.333 3:33.333 333333333. 3.: “3333:3333 33.33
3.333 33333333333333 333333333333 £3,333

:33??? $30Md ~
33333323 3.:

“$3.339?
@333:

«M n
3.3352733!

3333‘}

 




 

 

 

 

 

3333:3333. 3.2. , 133333?

3333333 3333333 33 33333333333333 33333333333333
ﬁg“: ', ‘3'» my 3 :31? {213533933333
33321“?

3 3. 3333333333333 3333333333
3 333 3 3- 333333 33333:: 3333333

 

 

{Wig t"- "a "W‘-
,, 3» .' -- 33‘ a 3 ‘ ' 3 3‘
‘3373333" 333133333: 3M“.3g3333 333:3”?

3:3- 3:333:33 33333333 3333 3:: 3333 3.3333 3-3333. 33333 3333333 3333331333: 33313333
@3333 33W £333.33- 333313 3333 f: s :3 33$ 3 33.333331333313333 2333 313.3333,
333 33333333 33.33 33333333333333 3.33:3 3333 333331133. b3 3.333331333333333 3313

333333331333: 33333.3 333333 333333333. 33.33 my 132: 33333333 33: 13 33.33333

   

     

333333 3333 33 33333333333 3333333333 333.3 3332233333 3333:3395 3333333333 333333

3:

ﬁfw33®3§3 3:3 aggﬂ 3‘33“,“ :-

 

333313333333333

231333 333333333 3333333333333
33333333333333;

 

3333133

3333333333353 333333333333 «3 333233

 




 

52-)

Rocky Mountain News
DENyER 3010

D. 195,810 uUN. 195,105]

/’&,€R

” < ‘ “Dear Si

’15.. . all about a calf.

. WhiCh died at the Denver Stock-’
gyards a little over a week ago,

,fwhen apparently left alone in the
;'pens shortly after birth.

 

 

. And,
been humane enough to give this
rvlécalf over to a friend or a child?

article about the calf)

Write letters.
pressed themselves more eloquent-

 

Not just any calf, but the calf

Mrs. Merrilee Warner, English

. and Speech teacher at walsenburg

High School, explained the letters,

ywhich were sent to the News:

“We discussed it (a newspaper
in my
decided to
.They have ex-.

classroom and all

ly than I would be able to do, and

«in the words of many old— timers,

‘them’ s my sentiments’. ”

Gamut of Emotion
The letters—some typed, but the

ﬁajorit‘y in longhand—from 40

concerned boys and, girls reflected
a- gamut of emotion ranging from

1 revenge for the calf’s death to a
“demand f0r both sides of the
1 story.

One began, “This isn’t an aver-

wage business letter, so hold onto
; yourhat . .
'peOple have any feelings at all?”

. Honestly, don’t those

A deep concern was expressed
by so-,me phrased by such ques-

tions as, “What can I do about it?”

Others reflected feelings of hu-

, manity—even if the death were
quick:
~ as wellj‘f the calf would have been

“It would have been just

butchered“ along with its mother.”
“Couldn’-t you at least have

ggtWouldn’t this have solved every-

 

By ROBERT SAMSOT
ocky Mountain News Writer

’the letters began. There were 40 of them

 

thing both for the animal and for
you?”

Indignation: “But does this
happen 'once? No. It happens
every time someone is rapt only
in making money and not hav-
ing any c o n t r i t e feelings or
emotions when animals or peo-
ple die because of them.

“I would compare them to a
murderer, but a murderer is much
more merciful in that he does not
permit his victims’ suffering. It
would please me greatly if a com-

plete expose of the facts would I

appear.”

And, “Instances h a v e proven
that they would do the same thing
if a fellow man would be
assaulted or even murdered. They
just don’t want to get ‘involved.’ ”

“My indignation to w a r d the
person who is responsible for this
is surpassed only by my shock at
discovering that such things do
happen quite often today,” an—
other wrote.

Probe for Facts
1 Anotherf expressed an eager-
ness for the other side of the
story:

“If there was negilgence, of
course, something should be done.
I do believe, however, that the

people deserve the consideration“

of knowing all the facts.”

Still others . waxed ,Biblical:
“There is a scripture in the Bible
that states: ‘Thou shalt not kill
any creature of the animal king-
dom unless the flesh is used for

t

 

. .-..... .,
~ . 1.11... , ..
'f ' ' .' .- ‘ 1' 1‘ .-- . '1'.
'~ ‘-~-‘ '-»<. _ ‘ .' ,_ -.' .. 1 _
. .. .«17 . ‘ ,, ‘ ._.~ .-, x ‘, . , . . . I
1 ~ ‘ .- ~1 ,. ' ' - . - 1 ' 1 ;
. ’ - -u.,
. . ' I" _. ,. f . _ ‘ ‘1 3 g
‘ - 1 .. . r, , ' , l s.
. 1 ‘ -.'. ~~ L ..,.,_, ’
. , __ : , ﬂ
~ r 1 .. ,.
4 » ‘ ‘ - 1 .1— z e ‘ a

food.’ The murder. of this tiny calf
was against the principles of the
Bible and of God.”

Another talked of a lamb he
nourished to health after its
mother died after birth and wrote,
“If those men would let a baby
calf die, then they would let a
baby child die, too. So no matter
how you look at it, the baby calf
is a creature of God just as the
baby child is too.”

“I would have gone hungry and
cold myself just to give it a home

"and some decent care. No craw—

ling creature of any kind deserves
to ,die in such a brutal way,”
wrote a young girl.

And there were those who
wanted to see something done
about it: “Who ever committed
this act should be punished by
law.” And, “Maybe if more
people respond and do some-
thing about this, there will be
an end to careless deaths such
as this one.”

Others expressed Whole- -heartedl

pleas for revenge:

“All I can say is I hope the
conscience of whoever was re-
sponsible for this terrible tragedy
haunts him for the rest of his
life.”

Someone Frayed

Vengeance from another:
think these people
punished for this act by putting
them in a cold open pen with no
food and see how they like it.”

A ranch girl said she had 'seen
many calves die, but “Somebody
was always there praying and
hoping for its life.”

The saddest lament was Writ—
ten in the person of the calf.

“I am the poor little calf that

 

“I ‘
should be ‘

 

was left to die at the Denver
Stockyards. I was born a happy
black calf and I loved my mother
very much. A few days after my
birth, I woke up one cold morning
and found my mother gone . . .
Alone and afraid I tried to take
care of myself. Being only a young
calf, I was unable to find food or
warmth. I died cold and hungry .
in my empty pen.

“Oh, well, I was just 'a stupid
old calf. Who misses me?” ”

 

 

r

 




Lafayette ’
gSChool District:

 

 

Fairview School
561 Merriewood Drive
Lafayette, California

 

Phone: 284-7046

1 .m‘ rug-1 r-w
, /

. "mm”.
.1 ' ”M .v . , ‘

_. A“ wm'kt kw‘nm

..r-

,u

- in»
)4

a"
\j.

 

 

 

r"
‘r‘
1 ‘,
. »\4. .

 




. ‘ 9.5:,“ ‘ﬁ #9 ‘4‘: 7.  
ﬂtgﬁmgn 1i§¥d§ﬁci g 1‘?" a: :37?

2

MM. {Swimw m ’agw g. Saramlfmm
3ifth'§1¢@r

3%? Eagt’waghimgﬁwm ﬁtraaﬁ
inﬁiﬁnaygliaﬁ lmﬂiaga ﬁéﬁQﬁ

3w? .iéi’ima isgeﬂf‘wm

fﬁa % yam ﬁg? yaw? kiﬁd latﬁar ef’ﬁardh lﬁth. $6 wmra
glad ﬁg guypéy eawi$$ @f ﬁﬁamﬁ Kind Lian” far tha 60mm
faramca 5% kinﬁﬁrﬁﬂwtﬁnﬁg ﬁﬁd aw ﬁg?” 30“ “all ”all an
mg agaim mhﬁm mg mﬂ§'%%'h$l§fﬁl 1% $ﬂ®?1?iﬁ@ humana @ﬁa»
‘ﬁaﬁiﬁﬁﬁi Waﬁﬁfiﬁiﬁ mhﬁeh Will ha yﬂﬁ ta uﬁﬁ h? ﬁaﬁ3h$”$“

Englaw @ 33 a iisiﬁﬁg ﬂy matari$lﬁ a?&ilable_frmm tha
EX mm mm as? am and ividmal blanm m: am by
ﬂaw”? c’mm a,»

Siﬁﬂﬁ%ﬁlyg

Ehrigﬁiﬁa Stav¢ma
Fraﬁiﬁﬁnt

”Mfg 1%.

52.5 .R‘ ‘ ‘ ‘5'
amelwgarag

 

 




r _ _ _._.___~.————.—.—~___

WILLIAM E. WILSON, Superintendent
EARL L. WOOD, Administrative Assistant

ELDON R. CRAWFORD
Assistant Superintendent

DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC INSTRUCTION V Adminisiiaiion

227 STATE HOUSE 46204
317 633-6610

EDGAR B. SMITH WILBER E. STEWART
Assistant Superintendent Assistant Superintendent
Instructional Services Field Services

March l4, 1967

Miss Christine Stevens
Animal Welfare Institute
P.O. Box 3492

Grand Central Station
New York, New York 10017

Dear Miss Stevens:

Thank you for your kind thoughtfulness in sending the information
on the “Good iind Lion” for distribution at the conference on kinder—
gafgns. The conference was attended by over 550 persons.

We are appreciative for your conneration in making the conference so
very successful and of value to those who attended.

Fifth Floor

309 West Washington Street
Indianapolis, Indiana 46204
Telephone 317 633 4223

Sincerely,

f.

‘ ‘7 y a i
kiwi/”erect; » (W 6-1242

(Mrs.)Corinne Walker
Consultant for Title 1, Public Law 89~l0
Elementary~8econdary Education Act

 




 

 

 

EMyawﬁ {ma mesh {3% H‘W fallwi‘mg‘ﬁ

1. ﬁaﬁ®¥iﬁari&n ta apaak am‘hmw @Q aaww fay ﬁmimaig ia eiaagywam, turtlag
f?&g3, figha $irﬁa, miaa, watsg guimaa pigﬂg ham&ﬁar3 anﬁ raﬁﬁitsw Tygwg
gf’fawﬁ, waggg, ﬁpaawg iigkt, haﬁﬁ anﬁ axawaiwa yﬁquiramants. Glagn aagaaa
‘ﬁaakawﬁ anﬁuvaaatiwn aava. Whaﬁ ta ﬁm if an amﬁmai gwﬁs $ﬁ®ka

2w Value mf vﬁtﬁwwﬁlﬁaaﬁrﬁ 95 %@iﬁﬁ With aﬁ$mﬂ15 and lﬁarnimg ﬁhﬂi? aha?»

aatarisﬁieﬁ. ghaiaw 9f paﬁs-whiah anaa raquiwa littla attamtiam far thaxa
With eaaual imﬁaraﬁt mr Kittla ﬁima and thasa which ara waxy damanﬂimg and

require a gr¢at daal of attamﬁimn» Ragpanaihiﬁwtias af havimg yatgg

3. Zaa cffﬁcial to talk an valua a? guns anﬂ mu$@uma fay wﬂuaatiﬂmal'gnrm
asses. ﬁéviaa on whan anﬁ EQW'wa shwulﬁ eara far wild animaiaa ﬁhgﬁ ta

do whan a wilﬁ animal 13 fauna hurt, whan $9 laave tﬁﬁm $10m$§ wham ﬁg bring
than name, whan £0 take thaw ﬁg a awe a? anima& ahalﬁar. What wilﬁ animala
arm suitablﬁ f3? k$%ping at hﬁma and what.ara ﬁaﬁa

t0 ohgarva wilé lifa, &.ga, ﬁﬁﬁQFQ walks, bﬁrﬁ @ﬁﬁﬁhﬁﬁg» ﬁemaavvaﬁiam 9f

wild lifa anﬁ maturﬁl rasauraes- prataatiam 3f wwadlamﬂ3_ wailuﬁiam.mf waiar»
‘ 3. g“

waya, anﬁ mamaa ammaas 0f maturaa

a ‘ - ~ ‘ - F‘ “‘0’ . v 4%. '5? n vi ' U?“ w... * a»! ‘ﬁ. u? “I: *2 ﬂ . eh"; "1 ‘ .’ '4$¢.3§ "I: "6; - , »-
4. A maturﬁliaa b3 talk an wz&ﬂ pian» amu az-mﬁ& »¢&%mwmwﬁﬁﬁﬁw&ﬁﬁh ﬂ“ “$33

r ,'- ' ‘ .' A": n . , ‘ ‘ u ' ”'9: I: t ‘3: as s » 5;. ‘ «‘92, . ‘i'. :15. ,:u 7: {w ': Jag, v 3W"; . ' "9
3‘ A natnraiiat %@ taim an aawma& paatﬁg dﬂmﬁga “Q gﬁwyw$‘ﬁﬁmm&$mﬁ a;

cantrwi 9f andasi?ab&@ abaaias, whaﬁ maﬁhwﬂg avg av&ii£blﬁ Ea mﬁag wﬁaﬁ arg
anéﬁsira%ﬁﬁ maﬁigﬁam whaﬁ ham gnaw wramg wiﬁh aama paat attamptﬁg mag.g
upaatting tha ﬁalamaa a? maﬁura.

 




3,. 3mg :J‘ktiuﬁﬂ"vi '3
" 3; « ‘

11m Egawm “Emu
*zwsziW “3:33" iWémmﬂvmﬁa
”mix? 4333mm M41 3 KW} 3% "W“ w-Fﬁﬁ

3;: .3 M. #223313. WW @mﬁvw
353‘? 37:”? 3333331333333. "m3;
“”WALWWWWWZﬂKL 3 ti ii’ﬁn

3’3, ~33, 33.3 .3
AW ‘WﬁngeZﬁgﬁ 5,: i) g E” MBEK g}?
i . M g; I i. . . ,. 3 3“
W “3333 3‘33 ”mm 3:322:23-
???” :3” Lu _m W313 igéﬁ? g F @2433?! if?”

’6 3‘ :‘i’a’ 33.?” .'
{$3 ‘3 '37 :3)f3’; Ezg‘ﬁ ILQ 45(56’1‘; (W uxﬁzztéﬂh
"ii-Hf“ , L n"
.3331, ﬁwax iiﬁﬁzf’;
Wiiﬁei'ig, W WWW mﬁﬂI-w»

 

 




8,me 50111” i

Smithsmﬁan is; W “E

 




i
ROCK COLLECTING l

conducted by

IT.

 

 

 

Mr. John White, Museum Specialist Mr:
Department of Mineral Sciences ZOC
[2/469
Lock Raven Darn SHE
Towson, Maryland ,
meet at . 811%
Chartered bus—west parking lot of 13
the Museum of Natural History, oﬂc a
Constitution Avenue near 12th 1
Street, NW. ; 1:0
fizzle i 20
9:00 a.m.—-—5:OO pm. i 310
mmzber i
30 adults and children 1‘ 5 g
(no children under 8) l plu
1
d we, “as???”
z‘lotlving
heavy shoes or boots l tenr
slacks 313C:
equipment
notebook butt
killi

sample bag (cloth)
masking tape

 

 

note
Bring picnic lunch and

$2.50 for chartered bus.

 




 

 

INSECT HUNT

Mrs. Sally Gagne
Zoology Instructor

Sligo Creek Park, Maryland

Sligo Creek Park, south-west corner (at
intersection of Sligo Creek Parkway
and University Boulevard, west)

1:00 p.m.——1:45 pm.
2:00 p.m.-——-2:45 pm.
3:00 p.m.——3:45 pm.

5 groups of 25 children
plus a few adults

tennis shoes
slacks

butterﬂy net (optional)
killing jar (optional)

 

 

 

 

 

BOTANY WALK

Dr. Stanwyn G. Shetler
Curator, Department of Botany

Bear Island

Parking lot, across road from Angler's
Inn (on MacArthur Boulevard ex-
tended, toward Great Falls, Md.—
allow 45 minutes for drive)

12:45 pm. to 2:30 pm.
2:45 pm. to 4:30 p.m.*

2 groups of 25 children
plus a few adults

 

sturdy walking shoes or boots
slacks

‘ magnifying glass

flower guide book

Bring picnic for supper on Bear Island.

 




BIRD WALK f FOSSIL HUNT

Members Of the Audubon Society 1 Dr. Efle Kauffman, Curator
Department of Paleobiology
Roosevelt Island
Plum Point, Maryland
Parking lot, entered from west-bound
lane of George \V/ashington Parkway Chartered bus—west parking lot of the
(approaching Rosslyn). DO NOT .4 Museum of Natural History, off Con-

use Key Bridge. : stitution Avenue near 12th Street,
. 11 CC -

8:00 a.m.——10:OO am.
11:00 a.m.——4:OO pm.

10 groups of 10 children “)0 adults and children
plus a few adults (no children under 8)

‘29:»? /’;_.::D V/ ‘

fm
/

”B :n/‘1 sf" Mm
We. a *4 we age? 5%

tennis shoes tennis shoes

slacks slacks

note book box with padding or cloth bag
ﬁeld glasses (optional) knife

2” x 2” screen for sifting

Bring picnic lunch and

$2.50 for chartered bus.

 




 

Qatgbar 25, 1?67

ﬁigg ﬁaral Haugh
1Q? Laural Bill
ﬁaumﬁain Lakas, ﬂaw Jaraey @704$

ﬁwa? ﬁiaa Bauﬂh,
@ﬁ recaivad yam? lattar ragaegting
infarmatiaa ahmut G@rbila.

I waulﬁ.lika ﬁa rgfar yam to an ﬁxgart
QR thﬁﬁﬂ littiﬁ animalg, ﬁr. $.Eﬁ Foiley, 5.3., A.B.A.
?¢u,mav write $5 him at th& ﬁatianal ﬁance? Institute,
$atianal Enstitutes cf Realth, Eathagﬁa, %aryland.
E 3% $uva he wwulé ha aﬁla t9 5&991? yea with tha

aciantific faatg yam naaég

If we can be af any furthar hﬁlﬁ ta
ku in tﬁig mattﬁr, mlaaga ﬁg myita again¢

agnaa?@1¥§

( Em”) Barbara ﬁaulé

 




\v‘tu‘trulf.
: . m ,,.\ n. . \..,,\.\
n.2,, .. .x . a .\
. m. X 4., “a m. H \\.
m

K QaaoN $ozmm . \um ,
A? .

80 B923 kin «is:
Ema“ Jvkxf S; EEK? mg“ 8?;
wakﬁﬂwﬁ x. 3%
‘ 9§A , \ “KG
9% «x? F um
KSH g: ox a $
. . F RE \m K? r
. \9 X?&
g. cm $5M EA“. $5

%%
, Egg

 




\bV Egg Vﬁﬂq

gvufR
SE

 




 

 

 

 

E%y'l?5 1&3?

Mr. Donald F. Richard, Captain
.ﬁuﬂia Visual ﬁids Dapartment
Flcrida Air Acadamy

Zﬁ Palm Drive

Malbourne, Florida WEGOI

ﬁaar ﬁr. Richard:

In rasponsa t0 ygur latter cf May tenth requesting
250 copies a? ﬁumane ﬁiologz Projectg, we would be
glad ta sand thasa but wauld have to charge yau the
cast to us far such a substamtial numher.

£5 yam will hate fram thg enclased listimg, ma affer

ana copy frag to eaﬁh iaacha? wha askS far it and aédin
tional capias avg 35 canta each. Please let us knew if
wa $hcu1d sand the £50 copias and bill you. Under saga»
rata cave? I am sending you ona frae capy.

Yaur kinﬁ intarast is appreciated, aad I wish wa could
affard ta sand yum all yea want withaut any eharge.

Sincerely,

Christine Stavena
Presidant

03:1h

Enelasura

Separata covar - ﬂailV/

 

 

 

 




 

SENIOR DIVISION 0 MELBOURNE, FLORIDA329OI o PHONE 723-32II
JUNIOR DIVISION 0 PLANTATION, FLORIDA 333I3 e PHONE 587-1261

May 10th, 1967
Audio Visual Aids Dept.

Animal Welfare Institute
P.O. Box 3u92

Grand Central Station
New York,Hew York 10017

Dear Sirs:

We would like to secure the following free materials as
listed in the Educators Index of Free Materials for use in
our school:

Hur ne Biology Projects

e wo, . ike to obtain as many c0pies of this as
possible f possible.

Thank you, and I am sure that these will enhance our
department greatly.

Sincerely,

DONALDIF. llCuiRD «(£9 k¥g\-

AUDIO VISUAL ALDS DEPT.
Wee FLORIDA AIR ACADEMY

V2 5 WW MELBOURNE, FLORIDA

32901.

“Np

Plantation Campus

 




 

ﬁ’iﬁgﬁiﬁfﬁt 3.1:" 1965?

gstargam-ﬁtata Gailaga
3%} F¢m@%an.ﬁmaﬁ
Egg : a, My Jeremy Wm

m - 2? “km mm:

in rwgyanﬁa ta yaur letﬁar of July £?€h, iﬁﬁ agyias
@f :smamﬁ ﬁiglagy.?vméaeﬁ$ wﬁra sant gun for distribﬁtian %@
gag? aﬁwéwa$a wﬁw will %@ ataﬁant/%s&ahivg in tag-fag}.
ﬁnalﬂgaé £3 & liating aﬂfmaﬁawiﬁlﬁ availaﬁla £*ww ﬁb$ ﬁa-~el
EQE§E§Q Insﬁgﬁuta. T%asa availabaa ta Lw«ehars ara markad iﬁ
raéﬁ If'gwu wnalﬁ lika samwlﬁ aayiaa sf ﬁmma af thaw” jagt
mark thaw, ﬁﬁﬁ thgy’will §a sanﬁ. Yﬁar*kind intarast i5
%ggra¢iataﬁ. ‘

Sinearaxyﬁ

 




 

 

9R6? nf New 312mm

PATERSON STATE COLLEGE

 

MARION E. SHEA 300 POMPTON ROAD
PRESIDENT WAYNE. NEW JERSEY 07-470

  

July 27, 1967

The Animal Welfare Institute
22 East 17th Street
New Yerk 3, New Yerk

Gentlemen:
W111 yeu please send ﬁe 150 gepies ef;"Humane Bielegy Prejects" for me te
' “We 5," "

a,
4‘, V
ﬁﬂ-{ljfb‘yt'm'ti'n ’ ‘

distribute to my students whe will be eut stude t teaching in the fall.
I would alse appreciate yeur sending me any ether teaching aids yeu might

have te effer.

I
5 Sincerely,
E1 V 1 E - 2’ ~"\ , ‘*' i.
i :2“ ' IJ=u“%MW,/M '“Vwbcﬂ

Dr. Doris G. White, Ph.D.
Prefessor ef Science

   

 




CHRYSLER PRESS, Inc.

114 east 13th street 0 new york 3 - spring 7-5110

5 .
”i,\ ,r - m

, \ J

.1 . :13

5 (/ﬂ /
" f U {5’ £3 41', ‘1’

t

\

 

IeHerpress - offsei' . composiﬁon

 




July 3?, 15%?

Via. ailliaa E. Sail-Mara
may ﬁnial-Ivy Hill ma
amntaam 29.3
,.i».amua, Viarylamd

Dear Mr. maximum:

In mamnaa ta yam" lattar af July mam , iaa animal Welfare Imam“
Miami, Cam“ 9;: a a: .1 iiniﬁiéi': a; ia limited in ita ciiaiﬁhxn
man ﬁe aaiantiﬁa inatimiiaaa mama: aaaaaiaaatal aaiaaia. Vim mama
far Ma is that aa da mi; Maia amitiaiaygiy “ha aaaaaraaa ariaanaa
ahiaii aausa pain an Mamas to amaala iay ymxtha in high aahaala aim
ara iaaithar sufficiamly mature) mar aui’ii aiaatlty wall traiaad ta madam
tam mach aatiaitiaa.

ﬁrmlaaoci is a. may af aim Hawaii, firm, «Q a. Eiiagggz Vrgjaﬂﬁ _,: which was
pan-maxi spacifimlly far am by high sahaaii taaaiiara and atadaats.
Thea!» manuals am available fraa an raquaat ta aw taaehar.

Alsa- malaaad ia a may ai’ tha mlaa "iamit‘ih. may ha pasted can a Maﬁa
mm to kaap than claarly in mind.

should yam iii ah ta dia-cuaa praviaiaa a? infaraatian ia aaianaa mahara
in aura tiaiaﬂ, X can itaa raaaiiad at. my Emma in iiaahinaivoiia B. C. 133”
mnabar 1a Vi ?~5£ilii. i‘ha iii: maims ta ham in avany may maaibla “ta
aaai at. aaiaaaa taa aiiara ait’a wand aaiantifia ma iariala mica avoid aha
inﬂictian af suf'f‘aring an animal

devalamaiit at” high aahaal Tm:

iiaaaaaliy:

Cirmi at‘iaa Samaria
.Praaidaat

 




([42? C105 {‘30ch

C) 'ﬁﬂVrYH ZC‘EA
86pm30\\\c [man/L13(CWCCQ
Jail 5, 16157

\

{man LO- AMT L»? SH M»

22 CzQA\ ‘7ﬁ1 S‘h‘"€\

">4ch U‘cMi 3 “9w WW“

:D‘Ecm 9W:
Caedtg‘k peg C(Wé Wm Mawxquﬁ (mad. MW
f YWCKMV (7)0? CHM C WWW Lap MB; 3\C CQAC 0’5
QXW‘WCMQQ ammayb We $06M“; Tad/[M
A “toxsalomanﬁ W W\amt1!0wc I U—JMUC

(31/02/30 \kK‘i TMﬁ PWCQ
{MGM/QC L/ m U (aw Mud/1

Low ‘83 cm “C0 $9

 




STEPHENS COLLEGE
COLUMBIA,M|SSOURI 65201

June 26, 1967

Animal welfare Institute
22 East 17th Street
NBW‘YOPK 3, New York

Gentlemen:

We are having an NSF Institute in M01scu1ar Biology
, n ur campus this summer’% t. should like to have
’ "Opies of your hookle ézgine Biology Projects
distribute to the hO h' schooi biology teachers
who will be the participants in the institute.

Thank you Very much for your assistance.

Sincerely,
f

mph ”4/ ’ a

Charles Lakinger
Associate Director
NSF Summer Institute

CL:ljp

 




 

E’ﬁ’gb J. 33. F$$§§im
3‘35} 5; Th2222 222222
22322222222232 21212212.. 36111

23222 2122. F222122

1’2 22222222 ‘22 gram? 12121.22 2f“ Jam 2222, we regrat that
22 22- 222 322.22 the 2222:2121 you ram-r tea as “Hermit Armin
122.1. 1321122122 2122221212. *1

11222222? I 22: 222122122, 2 listing: 2f 221,212,212 availabla
2'2 2 12112 223.221 123212222 Institum for mu? infamtion.
2.2 222 213.11, 222122 g 222 22237 of any 21’ 2111' eduwtioml
22221212 213.]. 22 2222:1222 £222 22 2mg? intamstaé 1.02. char.
T222 22222222 ’12 2239222212222.

5122222129

(222.) Emma G. Hutchisen
Sacremry ta 2232. 8222222

3522122222

 




3885 Thomas Avenue
Mentgemery, Alabama 36111
June 22, 1967

Animal Welfare Institute
a. 0. Box 3u92

Grand Central Station
New York, N. Y. 10017

Gentlemen:

I would like ta secure the fellewing free materials as
listed in Educators Index ﬁg Free Materials fer use in
my class:

Nermal Animal Behavier Materials

Thank you for your ce-eperation in assisting ta ensieh
the curriculum of our schoel psogram. I weuld appreciate
your sending these materials as well as any others
available at your earliest convenienceo

$131063 1781);"? ‘,

Mrs, J. D, Feagin, Teacher

 




mgm

13%” f
“#4.,“ $335 _:

l" ,ifu .7 ‘
":4 $32

r

>9-
m‘; g
-

“63}?

c; i?“ 1* ,3 4 1:" k3? d" .

 

 

 

 




 

 

535%:333333 .35. 2....

3532‘... 5533333335. 3:33. 32533353 2 51553333335333“
Eﬁﬁﬁh Fﬁwﬁﬁiw? ﬂag” ﬁg“ 2
5533:5533 53533333333 9 73-; 33.33. 33. .22.” 5.75631

may: 3%” £3 3‘35? {$11 $3

In 33333339333333 3 :33. 32.3: 3.3335 2.33 33523 .2333... 3“: 33.333 33.2 333. 25.3333 333.333 3333
:3 1.3.5.33 3:35 3:33:33 5333.3 3333333335. 53.33335; 53.3.... 3335 £33. 2. 2.. 3 -... ”.33. .35.:3233
$3.": :53:..3- 553325.. 3333 332333333353 :3 33331335: I "53353333 35.5.5. .335.
.23 2.333.135.3333 3.35“ .3315. 2.5.33.5

.- a 4:13 A I: . ‘0. t} 3 v: . — .3. ' 2 M "Q" g‘ I?“ ”'5 . ‘32” ' is“;
EX; 5&3 1:? ﬁlm; «$393.1 3‘7} {“3395 m‘ t? {13" ”him? .anﬂ [Wink 2% . ﬂ fiﬁkx‘ia 345% 7A., ; A" “81;, 14.4 <3»; 1' V.';‘uumij ‘5 15"} "U :7" Win» ”1:: " ‘ ’wr 5+}
“‘- ‘3'“) .. " ‘ I I“ 5"" ‘ '* 5" 3 '. . ‘ 3 a." "rm "-1 $3 '3 m r»! r
3...: 3. 3 233325; 2 5533 3.3.. ,.;~....-. 3.2 3" 13.33.35.313 5.33. 5:33: 2 .2 3:3 .2 .5 3332332.: 2.2.3. 3‘35 33.3:
3""? ' ' ' (a 5w , - ' g (‘30,; f Ion ' A 4‘ o y ”g
.333. 33533333333323.3333: 33333.. 3:3: ,3. 3:3 33.733. 5.3533 3333. "5.3233335. 33333323333 33 333333.333 3.33.3 "3333.

3.333335. $3333.": "3325.35". "5.33 33333335 55.3 5335333

MA!“ £31.11: 9‘

$535." ’3.
3": 3‘3. 5.," 1533333335.}..3» ..

a:

....,, *2.- ."a

3:
s.

\ “M“ f”), *7 m
.k? ‘3'... ig Kit; {is-task".

ok":..¢»ué $2515.}... Lia} 'z’fgﬂ. wwrﬁﬁ-«axiu inl'W‘f
33.. 3333 3 33333.35. 5233333331333 323. 5.233333235533353 3223.53332335293‘1. 3:3 333333.333 5335. 33.3533:

,31' , - 5 at J? H. . .13?" ‘1'! p
. ‘- » 5'5}. $45.533355’1W IMBﬁ 15.555 3:” 257-... 5 5:”: 523.575. 5.551. '5 331525.275..33333...5.&5 e. 2
'..= 53,3...“ 3 3 . .. "x 7‘". .3".r“"- -- 2. 3 . .I 5“ I; ‘- :-.
.3”. 513 .2 3.321521 WI” 5.. M23.lt% 55..."? .5” 3355. i 5335355555...3€332.g 5 5 53.35.3332 3 5 333153 5’INﬁ3 g3

323333.165 333333033373 :2 5:5: 335 33031 3.33335 5533:3333: 333333353513" ”‘“

5;: (33' 4- (g
‘43.", J . a .1 I 3 ‘ '9 .. -613. F; a. I
3335:“ 333535.353 .- 3.3135 533333 -.335.::2.3.3. 5.23:.

355. "5.3 133333333353. 2.. 33.5 .. 2.33 233.33.323.53: 5:333 53333333.. 33.. .5 5....333333. 333. 2.. 3333333" 5.33.335;
. ‘ ,-. 455». 9,2". 3 35%‘1133. IQ, “’1' ,,’y w“ A" ‘ I e". n ' . 7 .h " ' J? '3 .-‘ ' K. " I
5.5323333 3.325.525. .333 3 23333333 33335 33.3.55. 3:31:33 2333333.: 33333. 3.32 333333333 "5.3 3:533 55315.3 9

. 2... ..2 . :3 . 33 .2 "33:- 3. ,.23nm-
5513335313.! 33.5“ 3.3 73 3,33 33 3.33333. 5.3.3 3333.333 35.335... 33333.3 33333333 25333333
335. 33.3: ”.533 3‘. 3333 53:3: 3333-

3333:3333-33553

5353335355333: 5533353355333
533313335

55:25 3 5.75.3

1555533 C555??? m *gﬁ’i

 




COMMONWEALTH OF PENNSYLVANIA
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WELFARE

YOUTH FORESTRY CAMP N0. 2
Hickory Run State Park
White Haven, Pennsylvania 1866]

TELEPHONE NUMBER
AREA CODE 717, 443-9524

wnrrwnﬁly't"vjns to 55V5757¢ on55Ll fa“ r5 here at our camp
our pPQ”?'P for LIWe“ um: 5; 55M quent yQuJE. The Faun»
nze Celmzcnion has given us approval for tke housing of unpratected
fox, skunk, raccoon, 555 05o<s sum. 245 would U55r cizts any
lbxcvm5tr05 you coul5 supply for us on the care an5 $I5 of
i n

h ,

5 us, $15.358 raccnm n5

1.01”“ lam :v ” -1

TI TFob;rt Cook
v‘f 1“ "
ﬂ,:,u. I

 




FFbFFFFy 2, 1967

Fr. RFFhFrd FF IFFFF

Lava FFFFFFF FFFFFFF

OffiaF Ff FFFFFFFF FFFFFiFFFFFFFF
EBFFFFFFFF Ff FFFFFFFFF

KahulFig FFFF

RAFAII 96732

DFFF FF. IFhiia

In FFFFFFFF FF FFFF Find} FFFFQ F FFFF Ff First.F d _§L‘Cﬁrﬁ‘~£
SFF;; FFéFFlF hFF FFFF FFF: yFug FFF I FFFXFFF F 1FFf1Ft FFFFFibm
Fag thF FFFF FFFFFtly Fablishod St-F' F GFF FF TFF FFFFFlF, Fhioh
I fan} FFFF yFF F1 1 F189 Fish to ﬁrdﬁre

The FFFFFFFF FFlFF FFF FFFilFFlF in quantity fFFF FF Fad FFF FFF~
Flly‘FFFF in high FFFFFIF FhFFF thFFF 1F F FFFFFFF FFndFFFy be FF
iFhFFFFF FFiFFFF FerFFtF. HFFFFFF, it FiFFt FF FiFF FF FFF theFF
rules *F iFFFFF that no FFFFhFrF FFFFFFt thF infliotiFF Ff any
tpr Ff FFFFFFFF on animals: It 1F FFry FFFFFFFFF tth FFFEFFFF
FF taught FFFFFFF FFF kinanFF fFF FFiFFlF FF FF early FgF.

If FF FFF FF Ff FFFFFFF FFrviaF FF yFF, FlFFFF lFt FF knFFg FFF
we Fill FF glFF FF FFFF yFF FFFiFiFFFl FFpiFF Ff FFF FFFFFFFIF
far inuividual FFFFFFFF in.yFFF FFFFFIF.

FFFFFFFEF,

ChFiFtinF SFFFFFF
FFFFiant

Caelh

FFFlFFFFF

 




STATE OF HAWAII

OFFICE OF DISTRICT SUPERINTENDENT

DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION
KAHULUI, MAUI, HAWAII 96732

January 20, 1967

Animal Welfare Institute
22 East 17th Street
New York, New York 10003

Dear Sir:

’The Department of Education on Maui has begun a program
of Live Science study for the elementary students. The District
Office where the Live Science Program is located will facilitate
approximately ninety elementary teachers in this program. Pre-
sently, I am preparing this program from its gra§5ereots, and
hope to be functional in the near future. ?' “

4

w

I would appreciate a copy of the booklet.§FIRST §ID AND
CARE OF SMALL ANIMALS, should this be available, andxether in-
formational materials pertaining to small animalse””1 hope to
use such materials as additional resource materials whenever
possible in classroom study.

Aloha and Mahalo for your attention and service.

acerely,

s Q l\\

Richard S. Ishii
Live Science Program

 

 

 




PUBLIC SCHOOLS OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA
Franklin Administration Building
Washington, D. C. 20005

Superintendent's Circular Kw.
January 13, l9b7

TO ALL SCHOOL PRINCIPALS:

WW1£> IATWilnfll DJC‘I {iir(f friB‘ti.t11t«3 i_s siéncii11;1 CL) (3310}1 C.i(WUtW1tﬂil7y’ “1L;}(N‘x
p: ﬂCiﬁwl n mepiy kii'quntnining thv 10110wzng items:

1. . St‘uiyingg Our Follow Mammals
First Aid and Care of Small Animals
virivnding Animals
Kittens and Cats
YGU and Your 00g

A samnle kit containing the following is being sent to all

A

ya<¢£ionai, and anniO: high srhmo} prinuipals:
Studying {Mr Toliow Mammals

31umunﬁv .': ’m‘.; E‘rui(w:ts

whihnxis by

teaCﬁcrs : r ‘. ”* maturiaén and smhm;
[hrvu“h Lé‘ f L ‘31; 1 thv Supwrznziwx
' Luv Humunv Ednvn '
h()rtﬂi 7*’i7'30 3(3r

 




 

Jﬁmaﬂw 2:59 19%?

Eva“ Richarﬁ_6¢ ﬂrawn
2821 Qﬂiva Straatg ﬁ.‘%.
ﬁaﬁhingtan, ﬁ. C. ZGQQ?

ﬂmar ﬁraa Erawna

ﬁmﬁar $aparata aavar I hava gent yum tha matariala ta
maﬁa up twa sf war aﬁncatian&l kit$w $ha boak$ were
Eamﬁ ﬁﬂpar&tﬁly ta cut mailing cosﬁs, 5a yam gill @a
raeaiving ﬁwa gagargtw anvalapaﬁ af materiale

The aatual 393% par kiﬁ is ﬁlightly avar $23 ﬁat ginaa
«gm gm 1% 3mm; shaming 5&1 far M W
ﬁgmmalgg which is under.ﬁ%1 eagt arias; tha aharga t6
yﬁu war.kiﬁ wiil %ﬁ $2“ ‘%® appraciatﬁ yﬁﬂ? kin£ “ff”?
ta- page:

if yam mgad any mara litaraﬁaraﬁ $l$ﬁﬁﬁ 19%‘“$ k“““*

Sinaaralyg

(ﬁr5.) Lynna Co Hutchisan
Sacrat&ry to ﬂrg. Stevens

gayarata egvar w ﬂail

 




MASS.
59,258

7

EDFORD

D. 70,109 SUN.
DEC 6 1956

NEW B

 

 




~ { Patrons .
. ~ ' " K Sir Julian Huxley
‘ . " Sir Solly Zuckerman
Editorial Board
The Duke of Bedford

‘ ' . __:_;;_2 Gerald Durrell
Dr. Bernhard Grzimek
I ‘ y r 9*- Nicholas Guppy
I — A . . .

Gavin Maxwell
, _ , ‘ , Alan Moorehead
' ' ' ‘ ' 7- Peter Scott
I EdltOlT-Iﬂ-Ghlef, ARMAND DENIS a _‘ Dr. Niko Tinbergen
Published weekly by Purnell & Sons Ltd

’1

37 ‘Hertford Street London W.1. Grosvenor 7386

Animal Welfare Institute, 25th May, 1964
22 East 17th Street,

New York, 3 N.Y.,

U.S.A.

Dear Sirs,

Thank you for your inquiry of 12th May. A year's
subscription to ANIMALS costs £5 as. ($14.65). I hope
very much that you will decide to take out a subscription and
I look forward to hearing from you.

Yours faithfully,

[l’Z7L“ CSVL~$?/V“

Anne Harcombe,
Subscriytion Department.

 




r~ :::

”-4,, A

      
 
  
   
  
  
  
   
   
   
    
       
   
  
  
    
   
  
  
   
   
  

£%aﬁm%@r E, l§ﬁé

ﬁr; ﬁarl Hangam
Eramklimiﬁdmimiﬁtratiam
13th amﬁ K Stra@ﬁ$
ﬁﬁﬁMMﬁﬁng ﬁg {:0 9333?;

w

 

w‘?
.3"? }

V,y§img

ﬂag? Qra Hanﬁemz

It was a piaasmra ﬁn maat w:%h.ymu,§ﬁgtawﬂay %@ ﬂiﬁﬂﬂﬁﬁ aha hmmama aduaaw
tian materialﬁa

éftar thinking ahcmt tha kiﬁag it aawwaa ﬁagt ta hava twm aayaraﬁﬁ mneag
Mam far ”£23159 almanmmr miwala imiuding; . g,- 3% , :
ﬁgrgtiﬁggaggg agre‘g§(ﬁmall.ﬁnﬂmalag ”Bafwianﬁing,ﬁm&malag” ‘Kitt$M% aﬂﬁ
Gatsgﬂ ”Yea and Kan? 36g,” and ”Giﬁd Kind Lien,” and thaga £6? ﬁhw high
sehmls and junior high sehmlazs Mending 3*"ﬂd “ m m m M" 1539

. a z; 03*. Fm @3453, Amae a; .3 33 $5.3; Classﬁrmamg :iwiiatimﬂ
$tatamant, and ﬁulas Govarning Traatmamt afnﬁnimals by 31gb ﬁchoal Ei¢1$ﬁy
3tudant5. Tha ardaw ahaat will ineluﬁa tha mamag mf a1} tha~mgtgvial$ 3%
that it ﬂan ha ﬁ$®ﬁ ﬂy all achaala and caunmilarmw

 

        

   

 

       

It aceura ac ma t§aﬁa aft@r all ﬁha crﬁara hava %@%n reﬁzrngﬁ t9:y@uv
efficaﬁ it wwulﬁ be wall fer aﬁm%ana fram tha Emmana Fﬁuﬁaﬁian ﬁ$mmittaa
0f ma Animal fﬁmmm Wgtm {331* “2:23:33 Kama} 'irxf'elfam Zn‘stimm m: chars? ﬂaw
avar and wriﬁ$ up tha ardar hm.$%x haaéqmartars fer tha tetal numbavaa I
auggast ﬁhﬁa in particular hmmauga 9f axpariancaa mg hava had 30 aftﬁn.i
wﬁieh teaaharg aak far 03% magy 9? any giV$n itam far aamh stuﬁwaﬁ 1m ﬁhe
alaasrﬁwx. ﬁf aﬁurﬁgﬁ ww ara mat aﬁaa t9 aupply-matarialg frga in ﬁ$i$
quantity» E beliawﬂ a gianca aﬁ ﬁh$ ardev £0-a$ by a gracﬁicﬁﬁ ﬁya @112
bring any améh ta light quimkky 39 that any migunﬁarstandinga Qaulﬁ bﬁ
carractwﬁ and the &istribuﬁian af tha matarials pyaa$eﬂ gmooﬁh; w

It is my undarstamﬁimg ﬁhat a3 Egan as tha tatalﬁ 3f wadh itam arﬁ kmmwmg
thay shwnld ha sent in ﬁmlk ta ygnr mffiea an& that ﬁha garting and dism
tribuﬁism will'be dmm@ thawwg if ﬂhiﬂ is net amrract and yam wmulﬁ prﬁm
far ta hava tha bulk maﬁariala gartad first ﬁg ﬁhﬁiﬁumama ﬁﬁucatian Gem»
miﬁtaa af tha Animal ﬁaﬁcmﬁ Laagaag thiﬁ oauld alga ha danag and mm-wiﬁh
ta earry amt ymnr-ingtwnaﬁiﬁng exaatly in thﬁ way that 333 auggagt»

    
      
 

fan? umdaratanﬁimg a? ﬁhﬁ impmrﬁamce a? saund humana aducatiam ﬁg ﬁyaatly
aggraaigtaﬂg and ya lmak farward ta marking with ywua ﬁbmuld yam miﬁh ta

  
      




3322 2.3232, 222222.22 2222622222222? 2772152543’3
whﬁmm 2322323272231; 22:22 222323.? 22222222 22:21:22. 23222722: 71222 @2222 222.2222212 2 22:2 3223722223222
in 3H $$$21§n§§i 2.) 3f} 32.5 E3222 ?m_‘€;3’1£’3 w

2,2.th 23.22.2223. 27332 233222 2

3:? mfxﬁmﬁw $335322.” 52%

‘3‘» \- .301 ‘ ‘L‘ B
(M222. «2:32; is"? vu’gxfﬁgfiw

g,"
3...in
2222

w'

£9134 it" -i ”I. 1*“:
M9»? g 324m

 

 

 




 

ﬁaﬁﬂQQ Qiﬁﬁ 79*
QQQ 3QQ ‘. ;
QQQ'QQQQQQQ~QQQQQQQQQQQQ‘“
QQQQQQ QQ QQ QQQQQaQ?

, Q. ,Q .._ . .
' ~ * Q n ’,;i-i if?
~ w ‘v' ,

1

QQQQQQ QQQQ QQQ QQQQQ

QQQ QQQQQQ QQQQ QQQQ'QQQ QQ‘WQ7VQHQQQ Q

m 1 »' Q, Q .4. ”and, . a. if
. 3 ; £53351;ng 222‘?” T: ~531th _, 3,5.
" $356351: 3“ ’Q~5 W ﬁﬁxﬁk 3-.«4'93'3333‘ 35-44. 443

. . ﬁQﬁQﬂQQQ
a}, - ”ti”: Q’QQQ 4% Q13. Q:
QQQQQ QQ QQQQQ Q4)
1‘19 ., Q’QQ‘Q _, QQ Q; Q“
iimﬁsﬂvﬁﬁ’ ‘kQQ WQQQ'WWQ Q Q at

W

QQ Q’Q

3?ng

ngQQQ Q
§§%4Q%Qt

_ 1%“
, .5” 5 . i';j_-3QWQQ§QWQ
QQQQQQ3mmﬁw33“
1% ﬁﬁmfﬂhi Q: ﬁiQQQQgg «QEQQQQ3 ”33333333
QQQQQ QQQ~QQQQ ‘*'

3&3: Q’Qghﬁm Q Q Q

'QQ QQQ Q3

ﬁg $3 34:99 ﬁ¥&§%;§2% 31E“ -( ‘3‘; ”0"” 3K;- L ' ‘ ‘1‘: 1‘ I «I. r 3’ :4: x '2 C J

_u~ 36'“ QQ QQQQQQQQ QQQ QQQQr“tM=E' Q:~
vas; QQQ QQQQQQQQ QQQQQ,mg
$333.: 33333? “113*"? 333%"? Q} .3. .-
Wm? u!” ,

ﬁW’QﬁQQ‘g‘Q"? 3333333 «3733433» I? ’ v
Q: QQ'Q QQQQQ-w l i; :’ Q '

"43" “3:33:33 m%

£3 gfﬁ‘Q‘i-flﬁ 3% (3‘3“

“sQQQQQQQ
:QQQQQ, QQQQ QQ QQQQQQQ QQQ

'33: WQQQQE ﬁggﬁgﬁiw
33% W‘Qﬁﬁ‘ﬁ Q. 3553‘ ﬁx 336%

Q QQQQQ QQQQ

if Q.

Qv-‘QEDW
if fwgﬁ

«Q QQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQW

’} 5;; ,3 git , , igﬁﬂmﬁaé

 




$¥ﬁ%%wﬂ%%¢wwﬁw=%%w#&#mw%#awﬁwﬁmﬁﬁﬂﬁﬂﬁﬁﬁwﬁwﬁﬁ$g.3JWW

 

WM €23 Wm. mm

A .

fig‘m‘i‘ was; L it?“ - ,x‘“ 497:.» '-
Zn -. , ,7, ,3; _g—.
t.,ﬁw§ﬂ‘ a”; 9135;, ‘ an 55%... 131335

\ﬁsw-ws‘ﬁmwﬁ—aﬂwﬁﬁwmﬁﬁcﬁ'ﬁﬁ-ﬁﬁ .. mm

£ﬂWiﬁﬁg

. my ’3‘ =

wwwézﬂmﬁwﬁ @ﬁi-wﬁﬂwﬁﬁéﬁwﬁﬂﬁwi ., :

 

 

 

 

 




ﬁmvamhﬁﬁ 2E9 lgéé

Mrs. Laola'wg ﬁaadlay
3601 ﬁannaetieut Ava.ﬁ mgwﬁ
Naaéﬂngtémg E). if}. 29908

away ﬁrwa ﬁaadlayﬁ

Thanka far sandimg t%$ lattar by 3%“ 3@E%ﬁ@? w?
wapraﬁuaad and eiraulatad.

I am ﬁnalasing thﬁ iattar I rﬁaaivaﬁ frmm.ﬁrg “
fer yam? infwrmatian. fﬁu will vaaail thaﬁ I w?ﬂﬁ@ E?» ﬁalnﬁy:
giva ﬁim & atraat address“ 3 wenda? if yam haV% hagrﬁ anyt%ing
fur-aim? Wm ,ié’azu grant?

fhanks 50 much fﬂrjyaur cantrihutimn far ﬁ%@ ﬁapiﬁﬁ
ﬂ

“Sﬁudyimg 3a? gallaw*ﬁammals“¢ E hapa you a$9 fiaﬁing 1% again

taaahinga Ernast'ﬁalkar wmuid, I am suvag bﬁ imﬁarﬁgtad in r@<w%;V”“

ﬁg it you may havw haarﬁ.
All ggad wiahes,

ﬂinaaﬁﬁly,

 




 

 

,N-LIL 'k-i’

(3*:
, "kmi’ﬁm

'5
w-mr w 4' " “M J
on. M ‘ ' l ‘ ’
WV W, J A: _»’.

a“? £1- ...;. ‘91"

. ..~ . n J" 14: "X
«r‘. a; ‘3‘“?9“. 7 V- 'i
V ‘12 ‘

i "‘1 ~{IK«(

. :ﬁlﬁﬁ‘lxﬁ LT?
‘4; 1,; ,1. 3'11?)

11H A" ‘3': ’2" x“?

 




w”

MAX RAFFERTY EVERETT T. CALVERT
Superintendent of Public Instruction , ‘ Chief Deputy Superintendent

and Director of Education
FRANCIS W. DOYLE

Deputy Superintendent; Chief,
Division of Special Schools and Services

RICHARD M. CLOWES
Associate Superintendent; Chief,

' Division of Instruction
STATE OF CALIFORNIA RONALD W. COX

DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION Diviéiﬁififuﬁﬁﬁesri’ﬁfcﬁdiﬁiiﬁiﬁéﬂuon
721 CAPITOL MALL, SACRAMENTO 14 WALLACE W. HALL

Associate Superintendent; Chief,
Division of Higher Education

October 23, 1963

Miss Estella Draper
Executive Secretary
Animal Welfare Institute
22 East 1 th Street

New York 3, New York

Dear Miss Draper:

I am pleased that you are still interested in my project with

regard to dissection in the elementary school.

Even though such a long time has transpired since I wrote to you
about it, I do not have the material ready for print. Actually, it has
become a much larger project than what I had envisioned at the outset.
I am still working on it and will be sure to extend you a coyy of the
material as soon as it is available.

The Elementary School Science Association, Northern California,
was very pleased to receive your brochure which you sent in quantity.
The material was distributed at a meeting of the Association. I am
sure it will be carefully studied and used by many hundreds of elementary
school teachers.

Thank you for your assistance and interest.

Sincerely,

f

x 9
m5).

- par/“3*”? ’ /’.
:3' /-/«€ 2, 1:? "; 1 {- “" — C "2 ”167734 x“

,a

Ester Nelson
Consultant in Elementary Education
EN:ms

 




“1,. v.)
‘3" 1?"? "“F

-- .9. -
.‘
I
E -
. 41M arm
. “A I" 1*

f-r

M G.
5' ii. (T4 t?‘ are; wé.
a. g -_ Wm", "17. 5.4a

 

 




Sit-S S 2% asaS 331330162

ESSSSYSSSS in E13SSSSSxy ESHSSSSSS
DSSSSSSSSS SS SSSSSSSSS

StStS SSSSSSSSS SSSSSSSS

732:: Caps“: SWH’S

SSSSSSSntS L4,?

J

Kﬂﬁ’é

‘3‘

33-21 S: Sim

134:5
v

33",?

$3 :S
.33.? 13:32 5?}4-3 1A. ’15 3’
QSS22ﬂ

tztia: .1}; 1‘ .,x: )1! l
SSS S SIS
SS traumStiS.

2 i 3 333.3,: 2%" {f3 {'3’

an.“

SSE:

VSSS SSSS SSSSSSaSS 35 SSS pmr=S S

:qf -
#3333

a .
.1 -- . '
~£'-
; A: may. v

I
.. . f’_ «‘15)»; ,7».
Jr» Vi“ ‘ 311% 3:315} '

,4”,
RS 1
l 1

331*?32132‘
{.1}: TS _ a
“532 3S2
a 2-.-. 131: a; 3. 331-31 31:} S 3,1917???
Salmi;a SS "SS 2“ xS 3 SSS3SS SSSS
23132921315? 3351323??? 7.5.3'353151‘? 3:3“ .a Spa! 3212:3111 3312 ”1133 31,31 2331211523,;
SSSSSSsSSa

;“ "1‘73"". »

3,12!" 7
.' a";

SS

3 d ,
" .-- K‘l‘
. _. .
U "#2:

1:1. 3 '3-

6+3“

ERQI c

«A
313:;

:3 .‘h .1: ’1' '7‘” W '3 1
m r9}: ,3’ ' ‘ I
‘a a

3 z", ;2: r}

, a3*313wﬁ
53; Sgwhwn'ary SS SS?
SS' "S3S SSSS mSy

31:33 afja’éf'z
1 a. M”. 51+ . up?"
$3133 ~11 ﬁgi 311,351.153‘7’3

‘4 ,7 5'"
1.11. «"3 {3' 3"» 3.

Si uuf
‘3‘”3 325'

‘7” VI)" ‘;
a h 3“]
21. {11"

i

SSS3

1: 1.1

Si's "”SS SS3MW

a?”33: '3 SSS

* 1.33."; .
iii-'33. 31i1‘33 3331

11 1; 321-113
o

’{K‘f‘gﬂlﬁ's '. 3" E’- ..

J 11.671“ 2 ,1".

‘13, 53333

‘S

L
1:1,“, 1'5"
3 33"."?

33:3:

”’30 E
>1 _ q a,
“14‘ .1“ i

'21-‘33 iES‘ 'j: ,3 y 'Zgy'gurg ’

‘. ‘ng‘.

- 2’ $13M- 3

 




ROY E. SIMPSON ,.. \ GEORGE E. HOGAN

Superintendent of Public Instruction , I. “ ‘~ Deputy Superintendent; Chief,
and Director of Education , . f‘ f," Division of Departmental Administration

FRANCIS W. DOYLE
Deputy Superintendent; Chief,
Division of Special Schools and Services

RICHARD M. CLOWES
Associate Superintendent; Chief,

STATE OF CALIFORNIA Division of Instruction
DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION Associafiggtileliiryenggf; Chief,

STATE EDUCATION BUILDING, 721 CAPITOL AVENUE, SACRAMENTO 14 Division of Public School Administration
WALLACE w. HALL
January 7, 1963

Associate Superintendent; Chief,
Division oi Higher Education

Miss Estella Draper
Executive Secretary
Animal Welfare Institute
22 East 17th Street '
New York 3, New York

Dear Miss Draper:

In reply to your letter of December 18, I regret to inform you the
Elementary School Science Association policy statement has not yet been
prepared in form for distribution.

Personally, I am concerned with the appropriateness and significance
of dissection of animals as an activity in the elementary school science
program. I have at hand these references:

How To Dissect by William Barman
Sentinel Books Publishers, Inc.
New York 3, New York

1961

 

The American Biology Teacher
"Better Techniques for Dissection" - Fletcher, page 188

 

"Hints for High School Biology Dissection"
Sister St. Lawrence, page 189

The supplies, equipment and procedure described for secondary students
reinforce the position that elementary school pupils should not engage in
dissection. Elementary teachers are not to be expected to be trained in
techniques necessary to make dissection a useful experience and equipment
is seldom available. Children of elementary school age should be dis-
couraged rather than directed to situations which may be traumatic in the
extreme.

I would be pleased to know about the availability of your publication,
First Aid and Care of Small Animals in a quantity of 500 for free distri-
bution to teachers. If such a quantity is available I suggest you indicate
this to Mrs. Hilda O'Kane, President, Elementary School Science Association,
Northern Section, Consultant in Elementary Education,?0ffice of the County
Superintendent of Schools, Division of Education, 336 E. Market Street,
Stockton 2, California and send her a copy.

 

 




Miss Estella Draper

January 7, 1963

I should also like a copy to assist me in my work in science in the

elementary school.

Thank you for your interest in the proposed statement. I hope it is

available in the next few months.

EN:ph

Very truly yours,

/”?/7 /

,K¥9 »w z“ ,
<%§/£JZ;/ C;Q¢(%§éen~”

Ester Nelson
Consultant in Elementary Education

 




 

,

n . 4. “1.. w‘ ,;

‘:.. .; 5. ““3: r1,
:1

A». "W1

)1: ~. iii
1;. mil Hi;

, -' ﬁrm: _ = gacatggdtw

' ”.a fTV” wasﬁimn ”
.15 +.\;'_ }:%t an& a?
gmsi ‘ 33m M; ‘1.

5“.

w ;;;i , a x=x 1?; TYMﬁE‘ 23:»
'1’ .. .~ ,. a: #1.: 5’ K . f! w
{:9 'm 33:; kﬁE‘wi 7— ‘ 4' U‘ 3' § ‘5‘} I: S 3 ”I" n
_ ‘ - ‘ V , .5? .',., ‘1;
‘31; a giaﬁ ta a y 0; Lbs

8“.“

skim w

Jana Bra gar
acutive 3

on
I»u

retary

 

 




E

3383 38333 ,3 WWW

umnsmltanﬁ 3W EZW nuawy WWWEWEEWW
bﬁﬁarﬁmﬁﬂW WE «mu 333W

State EWWEWWiWW 3W33ﬁ3ﬂg

723 SapiEWZ QWEWRE

oaathWWEW 34, 33333amnia

WWWW W3WW WW3WWW,

WW WEWW g3’d Ea hWVW ‘Wur 303* ’ 3; 33W333E WWWW 3W WWWWW WWW
WWW33WW ”W33 W 53E,mﬂ9ﬂ3 WW WW3333 WQWW‘339W3 W33? 3W3 WW13QWGWW“’”WT3R3WW§
31'; “Panama 3:; MW ”$539333 33 3321333: 2.333339%“. W3 Wm 33333333323313.3333 332mm
aai W33 3333 3333a, axtWﬂrW nmc33mﬁ 3W EWWWWWE yam WWWZE WW 3W3 33333 ;Wd,
3% EWia ﬁﬁmﬁﬂgﬁiﬁﬁ in tha EngiaaWW WWW“ WEWEWWWWE WW'EW. E. W. Armﬁa3ead,
WEWW WE 3W3 awamwm; 33 W Warinary EWW3C3EW 3W 33va3gan “333W hwivwra33w.
SWWuld Vﬁm 6333 En WWWW aﬁﬁ3 33WWW3 WWWEWs, w“ 3333 WE 333W 3% WEWE EWEW.
a3 lQuW “gravy“ 3W WWW3W§ WWW WEWEWWWWW WE 3W3 E WWWWEQWVWEWWWWZ Sa3nm3
Wasaa3 Ema.

3933 W38WWW,

333W331‘ﬂ’3 3:: ’33)”

 




Superintigznfofslgﬁffﬁstruct'On GEORGE E. HOGAN
‘ 1 .- Deputy Superintendent; Chief,
and Director of Education '1' ‘ A} Division of Department Administration

FRANCIS W. DOYLE
Deputy Superintendent; Chief,
Division of Special Schools and Services

RICHARD M. CLOWES
STATE OF CALIFORNIA Associate Superintendent; Chief,

Division of Instruction

DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION WALLACE w. HALL

. Associate Superintendent; Chief,
STATE EDUCATION BUILDING, 721 CAPITOL AVENUE, SACRAMENTO 14 DiViSim °f PUbliC SCh°°1Administmti°n

January 22, 1962

Miss Christine Stevens, President
Animal welfare Institute

22 East 17th Street

NeW'York 8, New York

Dear Miss Stevens:

It is not possible for me to reply directly to your questions
on the recent letter received as I am not directly involved in
classroom teaching.

The Elementary School Science Association, Northern Section, has
examined the publication carefully. .At a Council meeting of this
organization considerable discussion ensued with regard to the statement
of a policy to be recommended to California schools consistent with the
philosophy contained in “Humane Biology Projects“.

The statement is still in the process of composition. When it is
ready for distribution I will send a copy to you.

I am.heartily in accord with the Objectives of the Institute and
with the suggestions for science curriculum contained in the publication.

Thank you for the copy you sent me.

Very truly yours,

W
C. .n

QEE: ;;iz :;;:ggééégsyzp

Ester Nelson
Consultant in Elementary Education

EN:Ol

Enclosure

 




ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
22 EAST 17TH STREET
NEW You: 8, s. v.

onscou 3—1069 ”‘1‘ 5:)
, i “‘3 "’
fk EL»-

’-‘. ~"

A.
2;.»
w: "

I
€03“ ' a) ll"; "
$4,.i5‘» 0

£ a If .2: "
\l‘x 9&8 1“» i 13‘“? A"
, 13‘. ‘ a");
<13

yé "
4 ,A § ‘
TAM"
- is
. , all“;
, “33'5“"
/§£ ‘

Dear Friend, wigﬁg t

Some time ago we sent you a c0py of "Humane Biology Projects .”
We are now preparing an article on humane education part of which will
deal with the place of humane education in the high school curriculum.
We would be extremely grateful if yOu could find time to let us have your
comments . Also, if you and your students have developed any new pro-
jects that would be suitable for inclusion in the next edition of ”Humane
Biology Projects," we hOpe that you will let us know.

Sincerely,

\
j A
r V _ _/-- V .'
,

‘ 4/”: w I‘ x “ l " (,1 I J.
'4 {C/Crtéétc‘ (_ (,‘.t..,.-¢_¢,.L.¢ 3,

Christine Stevens
President

 

 

 

1) Has "Humane Biology Projects” been a useful teaching aid?
How could it be improved?

. /
é/é/ //€m _,

2) Do the projects in "Humane Biology Projects” appeal to your students ?
Are there any Special favorites ? .

3) In your experience, is the students' general attitude towards animal
life changed or modified by your biology course, and, if so, how?

Comments:

 




W, a}. '04" *
3

1'23"“ WHENQMW 3? at
QEQWHQEE 6W 19W?

3E3? Eixignz

XE iﬁ mﬁgt Eimﬁ 9f Ema EEW ’ lﬁﬁ E3 im
EEEEE an EEE LWdiEs EWEEWWWW ﬁf aha
WW1 HEEEWWE.E sag EEQW WWEW 2 ts L9
ﬁwliﬁthQ ta 3% SEW

yEE EEEEW “W1; am“ 3
{‘1

E? an Ea~ana EﬁvWatiau
wSmEe LEEWEEW‘wﬁiEx‘
Wiiaé Ewgﬁ E? EW '

”E
m“hEy$v an! t 13*
EE snita mimﬁ Kiwi ;v

gt Ei~a EEEEW

ﬁﬁalh

DEW 3W ﬂﬁllan Eiila;

mithsmnian Institu‘
Eaahingtong EW C.

 




 

SMITH SON IAN IN STITUTION

W?).r/u'1yf0n, .0. 6: 3056'”
i
‘5.

November 21, 1966

Mrs. Roger L. Stevens
1411 34th Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20007

Dear Christine:

It gives me great pleasure to invite you to serve on the Ladies
Committee of the Smithsonian Associates.

The Smithsonian Associates, established at the time of our
Bicentennial Celebration last year, has a membership of almost 3,000
now. Its purpose is to make the vast resources of the Smithsonian
better known and to encourage more active participation in the
Institution's educational, cultural, and scientific programs.

With the expansion of Associates' program, there is increasing
need to call on friends outside the Smithsonian for assistance,
particularly in areas of hospitality, membership, volunteer services
and special projects. It is my hope that the Ladies Committee will
be able to participate in these activities for the Smithsonian.

I believe you can make many contributions to our program and
hOpe you will join us in this new endeavor.

Sincerely yours,

/ g .

S. Dillon Ripley
Secretary

 




 

QQQ Q 9 QQQ?

..QQ WQQQQQQ QQ EQQQQ

WQWW QQQQQQQ QQQQQQQ

223*‘31‘3 QQQ“ “a“ 3““32Qim
SQQQQQ‘QruﬁQQ 22 QQQQQHQ‘
QQQJQQ‘QQQ Qf Q «QQQQQ
EQQQQQ32QQQQ33QQQQQ

i5 mama u 2 . u. , .1 , ,2 '. y I»; g ‘
“QQQQQQQ Q2 QQQ3 3“Q” QQQ Q 2- QQ3Q2Q2 ?QQQ QQQQQ
2y.
‘ ' 535.325,}:6?‘ “Q52‘ 22" 23' QQQ QQQ QQQ‘Q Q 223.3“

$3523
«222222222; W QQQ; QQQQ QQQ" QQQ? QQQQQ ‘3;
QQQ Q311 QQQQQQQ QQQ QQQQ Q? QQQQQQQ

. 1

QQQQ «Q3 QQ QQQQ QQQ QQQQ

,‘2’ ‘ t. .
QQQ Q'QQQ'Z’QEQ

QQQQQQQQQQ

QQQQQQQQQ QQQQQ
PQQQQQQQQ

 

 




STATE OF HAWAII

OFFICE OF DISTRICT SUPERINTENDENT

DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION
KAHULUI, MAUI, HAWAII 96732

February 7, 1967

Miss Christine Stevens
Animal Welfare Institute
P. O. Box 3492

Grand Central Station
New York, New York 10017

Dear Miss Christine Stevens:

Thank you for your prompt and personal reply of February
2, and for the copy of FIRST AID AND CARE OF SMALL ANIMALS.
I do appreciate the information on the recently published
STUDYING OUR FELLOW MAMMALS, but at this immediate time I
must forego the purchasing of any publication till, perhaps,
September. This program was just created, so a priority
budget for only equipment and supplies are now pending, to
be followed by a budget request for reference books. Many
of the publications are forwarded to the numerous school
librarians for their review, and the teachers are recommending
books for purchase which I present to their classrooms.

One very important aSpect of this program is to teach .
children to care for and appreciate animals and small mammals
in the appropriate manner, so whatever aid I receive from your
establishment will certainly be utilized in the proper fashion.

Again, Aloha and Mahalo for all your kokua (help) in this
new Live Science Program.

ﬁxSimcerely,

K
x. "(H
\‘\\ "1‘94 V/LA’J'
\v 1‘

... ' '1'
\‘h” f! A

RICHARD S ISHII
Live Science Program

 




 

 

m: gamma iyyymym

ﬂamml mi, my? ‘iyrymml Emmymyy
“53:3 am: yymyym; -: my itmt
Emmymygmlim s Eadimm M’Qﬁyy

Ky: yymyyyxyymyymy mm mm: 'mmyymm mmymmtim: myyﬁmyyia. y
mm»; 1: my malysmiyyg ymylyy mm yyi‘ “ﬁfty“ mm
mﬁmyy ﬁlmy; m mix-mg: ﬁta‘i; in may; 21mm mmmtm WW?

3:: :2: quantity mfi’i mam f0? mam 3mm ‘fm mama?
{:yyyyyf‘yyxyyyyayam

y‘y ”fa 95mg; my: Wm: mad 3%? Deg“ arm iii-:39 ”333%? mm“
mm: tmaimm am mimyym my mite my myy mm}; '51me
myyizyi‘i‘mim fay? aﬁyyﬁmyym}. nﬁuymtimml ymtmyiﬁfiyy mvnwamw
$.ny yy Wig; mad mm» bmyyym mat.»

£13me mm mm: mm yyu mm mm ﬁgmi‘ammm

my, .;
y,:y:y,m€3_ m ‘7‘ ' g

ﬁnﬁm’mym :‘mmymyyy
Ermiymyyy‘:

{33:1}:
elyymmm

ﬁmmmm away .. ﬂail

 




STATE e g-.. INDIANA

. ._ . __._..__...____._..._..._.____ _ _
l Mw-w—m

. INDIANAPOLIS
WILLIAM E. WILSON, Superintendent -

EARL L. WOOD. Administrative Assistant V . A ELDON R CRAWFORD
_ 3..., Assistant Superintendent

DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC INSTRUCTION ' - . Administration
227 STATE HOUSE 46204 EDGAR B. SMITH WILBER E. STEWART

Assistant Superintendent Assistant Superintendent
317 633'6610 Instructional Services Field Services

February 16, 1967
Dear Sir:

A state conference for‘teachers of pre—school aged children is being planned
for Friday, March 10, 1967., and a state workshop for school nurses will be held
on Wednesday, April 5, 1967. The meetings will be held in the Auditorium of the
Indiana State Teachers Association Building, 150 West Market Street, Indianapolis .

We are hopeful that those who attend will receive a complete directory of free
and inexpensive materials for use with children in Indiana's schools. We invite
you to participate in the following manner:

1. to supply us with approximately 200 copies of the free
material which you have that is useful for kindergarten
and pre-school aged children; and/or

to supply us with approximately 200 copies of free material
which you have that is useful for school nurses;

2 . if you wish a table or wall exhibitﬁo provide a cardboard
backed display not larger than 24 by 30 inches;

3. to provide a give-away item for each person attending if

you have such or to supply two items which you believe are
useful in the kindergarten or by the school nurse. These will be
placed in the centers of the luncheon :t ables. Actually seeing
an item is most valuable to those from small school corporations
who must order from catalogs and welcome new ideas.

We plan to compile a give-away . packet before the conference begins.
In order to prepare this and to estimate the space needed, would you be so
kind as to nob? me of your intention to participate in this type of an exhibit
and to send your materials to me at the address below before March 7?

Thank you for your cooperation,

Sincerely,

Camem7fclému
(Mrs.) Corinne Walker, Consultant for Special Services
Title 1, Public Law 89-10
309 West Washington Street; Indianapolis, Indiana 46204 Telephone 317 633 4223

 




if): 5‘15 .33.. :5 I, 37“” m E" if ‘ 5
3%3‘33‘332 537$ 53 3— 3211.}?

r; 3.. U
W” :3" 33M} 5» .7333333.:3.33
3.333. 3:33:33

‘L

*'5»,».-r ”i! 5M“ "'3‘? .5: V H". in)“
3.3333 3.3.3.33. 33.3333 3333333333333 333

gum: 13'»: 33.. .7 "' v3: \ 3 Q I
3333313 «“3“? ‘3‘? 9 333333333 33.3333. 313

223333: 3333333 3.335Jr 3.3333333 3333133333 333 3 13.33 3333 £333
.‘ 3.333.333.33513‘93333333 3“th 313%393 1333.}:ﬁ 3$§Nﬁé§ﬁu

.3333 3333333333333 333 33:33.33 3333333333 E 333 3333133333133 33333 3.3331»
33... “3333333333 3:333 “2.333333 333333333 33f 3333333333 3323333333 3333333333

r ,.
' 333:."

335.33 3333.3 333.3 33 33333335: 333333 3333 33333 13333333333333, 3.333. H3
.3“: 333333.333 333333 3333333333 3.33 3333333331.

3;

3333333313:

-. 331333- 33.333333
93331113333

$3333.33

.3333 33.333333

 




. .r75ch/rx/wa»

{//3"~% 91 I; y
M (la/Clam”

7'7 7 (Ln-'9’.) a p éé a]

' '4 " 'm. ~ _,—. / _. {w . V.A1,-'.£;.,;¢rL-
If? //k _ h7- {“4” w
,LL, ,,. .ﬂ, _V r .

1‘.

.4 , y"

9" ,J’x/Minwﬁfx'I
V ' /' 24.x" L4, c-L 14‘”; c;
" 4 KM {/10 . v -. ‘
u ' . ' . . ' _ , I I
., ,f . ~‘~_ ‘ ,..-, f.’._’,.....," I}
{I 3).!!!“ ‘7-’.»’(~/' /.
.x , If! ‘. . ~ 1 if“?

‘ ' J. W

. t‘ ‘
_-._/ ,

“4" 14’
f ,
‘l’A t/L/u') V»:
,, -g.~~

, f"

rf

1‘4.” ﬂag/.40.- :
L ! ..

‘l

' z,.
t.» ”w D
.‘L/

if” [{Liiw,#f/%u v. . {wt-'3’"
/

V .r

.31.“,
a

 

 




 

CHATHAM HIGH SCHOOL

OFFICE OF THE PRINCIPAL

CHATHAM, MASS.

March 10, 1967

Mrs. Jacqueline Baumlin
Box 22h

West Chatham, Mass. 02669
Dear Mrs. Baumlin:

Thank you very much for the note and information
that you have sent me on March 8. The humane treatment
of animals by children (especially at science fair time)
has always been of concern to me. I am very much
interested in this information.

Thank you again.

Sincerely,

Curt A. Livingston'

,Z: 5" 1-1

 

CAL/BF




U JOHN SPARKMAN, ALA., CHAIRMAN

WILLIAM PROXMIRE, WIS. WALLACE F. BENNETT, UTAH
HARRISON A. WILLIAMS, JR., N.J. JOHN G. TOWER, TEX.

EDMUND S. MUSKIE, MAINE BOURKE B. HICKENLOOPER, IOWA
EDWARD V. LONG, MO. EDWARD W. BROOKE. MASS.

THOMAs J. MCINTYRE, N.H. CHARLES H. PERCY, ILL. f3 .
WALTER F. MONDALE, MINN. It i h $f i g f
GALE w. MC GEE, wvo. at e a 2% en“ 9
WILLIAM 8.. SPONG. JR., VA.

COMMITTEE ON BANKING AND CURRENCY

February 23, 1967

lrs. Lee Baumlin
Box 224

West Chatham
Massachusetts 02669
Dear Mrs. Baumlin:

Thank you for your recent letter concerning
the appropriation of funds to enforce the Laboratory
Animal Welfare Act.

I believe that laboratory animals should be
adequately fed and comfortably housed, and that they
should be treated as humanely as possible consistent
with the aims of a valid experimental objective.
When this matter comes before the Senate for consi—
derationJ you may be sure that I shall study it care—
fully and keep your views in mind.

With best regards, I am,

a F/(JJLK.
Sincerelyyyours,
/ ‘ '

3 c
" 1‘

t- a;
”(3], w

ff}

Edward'WTﬁBrooke

EIIIlee

 




2222222222 222222222 "2””. 22.22%
2222221 22 222.2222. 2.22:2

3723222242222 22.2 4:22? .22.. 2?; 22222.22.
$222222... 2 222.22. 2.222.223.2222 ' ”

“.2”, if"
“222:2 222222.222 .2222 222.2222: 2..

. 222 2222222222 22222 22:2 .222 2:22 2221.22.22: 32:22 22222 22:. 29122
22. .2 22:2 22222.22 22.. :2. 222" 2222 2222-22 2 222212 21‘“ 2222:2222

22222222 222 2*“: 22 1124:: 22222 .22 12222 222‘ 2.22 2223422226254 (112211ng
' ~ .2222 2212*: 2221 2.2 222222.112 2221261222322 9 “2 22222 21212221
22 2222 2 222 2.225.. 2.2 12322222 $2112 2222222222 222221233323 2 221222
‘22 22. 22 22 32222 22 222 .2 22.22 2122.

2222 2:22... ““2 2 2222 :22: 22 22223.3: £2222 22:22.22 22? 222 2222212
2.22 222.22%: .2222222 22.2422 2222.222 152 22 2222222222 2222+».

2222-22212 .
232222222122 3222222
92222222t

2322112

”222222222 22222 2 222.1

 

 

 




UNIVERSITY OF SOUTH CAROLINA

COLUMBIA. S. C. 29208

March 20, 1967

Department of Physical Education
School of Education

Mrs. Christine Stevens, President
1411 - 3hth Street, N. W.
Washington, D. C. 20007

Dear Mrs. Stevens:

In reference to your letter of March 1h, 1967, concerning
the grade levels of the teachers who will be attending the
workshop for the retarded children, they will be primary and
intermediate-~ages 6 to 9, and 10 - 1h.

Cordially yours,

/ _ 4
wax/r724, [ax/Mi ,5

Walter R. Hambrick
Assistant Professor

WRHzcw

 




ma rah 19:3», 196?

mmmfmm mmr mimltmm my mammgﬁb
ﬁmimmmmiﬁy mi“ 353mm {Jamaimm
{imiixmmmim : Smut}: yﬂmﬁm 2992:}?

33mm» Pym. fmmmmm Eimmbrimms

Rmfmmmmm mm m ymmm 2mm 1mm? mi“ Mamba: End: 3
“immi; ymm mmmmim—md my lmﬁtmm mfg Mamba? 12%... Eat
mmyim- Ezmmm ﬁrm yam amt-3i matting: Wt 35m“ mmrkmhmp 1‘3
mmmmzﬁmlmm fmm mpﬁl mm. mm} 8mg 2:: mmmght it hast. w
7.;th yam; 9mm in.

E99 mmmmm m: mymmzﬂ my mmmmiyﬁ m2?“ ymmm 1%me may 3%".
mummmmm mm. yam. mmwﬁ mm mm mm mt my hmmm mmﬁrmmmz
mm m jm‘: 3%me m, m, g m mmmgﬁmm, 13m a: g $259.63”:

If ymm mam Mt mm kmgg my mam laymlm mf mm tmmmhmmm
$3?“ m;:§.:i. 9mm ﬁtﬁﬁﬂdﬂﬁ mm W333§€$h$§ ﬁmti aw 3&9? 2&ng
mmm iﬂfgmﬁma W mama likm 9m gammixim mmimmﬂm
thimlm 1m mummy: Mmeatimm.

gimmmmlyg

ﬁhﬁmﬁmm ..
i‘ﬁmvmidmmt

 




 

 

 

 

‘

:1

IV ' . 1 ‘
13‘ '

k.

.

Y.) ..

Q a;

,
x. y
‘-

u w
“3.;
3

. a,

"x
‘t, ,m

b“? ”t
(A
M: ' A"
.
”55:. y'( .r
k 1.2% ;
1
i

r
~
I
v
I
A

>\

.3
.2
”‘3
i
» a»
3?.”
s,

}

‘3}

a.“-

rap?

8 itaéi‘?”

3.1? ,, w. ..

“La: 3 ;:5‘:1?.}‘
3“ QEM .
aréﬁr ?
J!
.Léﬁ

* . qr; ,.
.%
I

J

V

a “A £8 5“.
1
a; M .‘
"L3. 5. £
A.
5.»

’5’“-

\ .

:21 V

3U:
“.35“!

9

. P. xi 331,52? .

§
'9' w dk. .

dz.»

Jféwrru . .

"13:51 2’3};

5‘ 3:
F

.; 1123353

‘4

W

L
:St f9? 3.

i3
‘3” G ’5‘?

*

.wlﬁa 0

4?"
a.

‘3‘? {TS

.

£14:
y a,

V.

Kiri;
' 3

all.“
ax

m

ﬁg},
.3 ‘wﬂ

.,
:1
x. i
. 4'3.
.f
"'3
“L.

"rm

4‘ V.
"'1 .4" I. ‘
a,» n“ '

' I"
3.23
i.
m
i

’3‘ 1‘1
w H.

13,

-ﬁ

T
.. ‘1
....v

y»:

I
i

a; l“???

*1
m tv‘u

. ‘ ,4
_. -~v“::‘ air—c. L,
‘- s u} an}.
1' '1"
$10

é, ’8
‘KA

V 5

3
a
a

.3.
L

1 (” "elk
m ‘5 k. 1
{Ext 3331‘ ea

W
1

3%"

I

C:

1...
3‘ 5

a
3%

4.

, w a
«35-1

t
mm. 3.

d

 




UNIVERSITY OF SOUTH CAROLINA

COLUMBIA. S. C. 29208

December 2, 1966
Department of Physical Education
School of Education

Animal Welfare Institute
22 East 17th Street
New Yerk 3, New Yerk

Dear Sirs:

'we are holding a workshop for special education teachers and others
who work with exceptional children on the University campus on April 7

and 8, 1967.

we plan to have display tables of materials and supplies that can be
utilized by the teachers of the exceptional child.

we would appreciate very much if your would send us "first aid and
Care of Small Animals" and any additional materials or supplies that you
would like to have displayed.

If it is feasible to send your materials in large quantities, we expect
to have approximately 150 teachers attending the workshOp.

Cordially,

(MIL AM toe; A

walter R. Hambrick
Assistant Professor

 




 

 

 

r‘r'l
,’}

Dr 1335 )6“, I'

A by t ”ﬁr-'13.. {.1

, ~ ' Republic Photos by Ludwig Keaton
WHO’S MISS MUFFETT?—Neighborhood Youth Corps aides Donna Mc-

Dermott, 18, left, and Judy Jones, 19, observe a three-inch spider enclosed
in a cardboard box. The couple is participating in a summer nature study
program sponsored by the city parks department. Miss McDermott is an

 

aide at East High Sch 01 and Miss Jones at Edison and Garfield schools;

 

DY—Shelia Jacobs, 16, left, a Neigh-

outh Corps worker at Whittier School,

and Mrs. Donne Puckle, a Workshop instructor
with the city parks department, observe a seem-

ingly apathetic guinea pig; M 81.9913“

 

 

 

 




 

 

é

~St.ar Staff

FOR HUMANE ACTION

John Allen, 16, and his brother David, 13,
display humanitarian awards presented
them by the Prince Georges County Humane
Society for trying to save a cat someone had
set afire. The boys live at 8000 Marion Drive,
North Forestville, Md.

 

 

 




FOXCROFT SCHOOL

MIDDLEBURG', VIRGINIA
22117

OFFICE OF THE HEAD OF THE SCHOOL

February 20, 1967

Mrs. Christine Stevens
President

Animal Welfare Institute
P. O. Box 3492

Grand Central Station
New York, New York 10017

Dear Mrs. Stevens:

Thank you so much for sending the
manuals of the Animal Welfare Institute
and the pamphlets enclosed in your letter
of the 18th.

I am sending these to our Library
where they may be viewed by the students

and the faculty, all of whom I know will
be interested in them. Should we desire
extra copies, we shall contact you.

It was very pleasant meeting you at
the Press Club dinner and I hope that we
shall see you some time here at Fo croft.

ertha S Adkins
The Head of the School

 




AAAAAAAA lag

AAA. AAAAAA.AAA1AA
AAAAAAAA AAAAAA
ﬁiﬂﬁlAﬁArgy‘ViﬁgimiA

AAAA AAAA A AAAAA
AA AAA AAA AA AAA AAA AAA AAA AAA: “A PAAAA {Slab Aim»

'AAAA AAA AAA AAAW AhAut AAA AAlAy in AAAAAAA AAfAAAAu
AAAA AA AAA1° AA AAA AA AAA@ J'AAAQAAAAA A AAA

 

f'A‘PAQﬂPﬁA; AAA AAAAA AAAAAAAA AAAAA I
”Adivfg by AAAA; rAtA§ AAAA AA'AAA AAAAAIA AhiAh AAA
AAAA AAAAAAAA AAAA AA AAAAAAAA. AA Amuld AA‘AIAAAAA AA
AAAA AAAA AAAAAAAA AA AAAA AAA.A111 AA glAA AA AAAA

Aiﬂiitiami AAAAAA €53? AHA" ym; fag; ﬁmgnﬁrﬁ amid {13%
AA AAAAAAAAA

m a
a? “nigh.” 0 35 ﬁg}? gbfﬁ (E?)

"3%.

an-

A2? AAAA AiAhA$§

AiﬁAAAAEAA

AAAA AAAAA A‘AAAAAA
AAAAAAAAA

AS AzlA
AAAAAAAAAA

AAAAAAAA AAAAA m AAil

 




 

x t
~ \

are:

If the conservation ,movej-
ment is to gain the momen-
tum it needs to save us from.
our own abuses, we must
have ' a broad program of.
education in natural history
at the grade and high school
levels.

Young people need to. be
guided toward respon51ble
thinking and 'acting'pn the
(problems of maintaining a
lhealthy community . env1ron-
iment.

Not many. » teachers in .our
lpublic schools are ,qualiﬁed
to give instruction innatural
history and conservation.

The Massachusetts Audu-
bon Society has tried for
many-years to ﬁll this v01d
by providing a trained teach-
ing staff available to all com-
munities on an optional bas13.
Under the direction of Fran-
ces Sherburne they maintain
a staﬂ’ of 25 persons who

 

.udubon

tructions

By LUCIEN THAYERW m

science or ,chlal science in
elementaryﬁhd junior high
school will the invited to
qualify thenlselves in this
special ﬁeldr'}

Acceptancéfﬁ‘ot this educa-
tional opport‘élnity , will indie
cate .whetherfthe appetite for
conservation. 'ttUdy has pene—
trated to‘thé’f level of local
school boardgand faculties.
Enrollments-{@111 . be limited
to about “.403 accbrding to
Charles R0113, director of
education. gt ,

This is angimportant phase
of a gatheﬂﬁg movement to
elevate. ggnatullal history to a

’ ﬁxed piac‘erfifi: the school cur-

riculum. Son? years ago the
Legislature ”,itiade a gesture
0f- approval flay authorizing
the positions“ supervisor of
conservation-in the state De—
partment, of Education. Mon¥

umental ”responsibilities and

limited fund?! have handi-
capped the jiﬂcumbent.

SOFiBtY PrOVides
f01‘ Youngsters

ék conservation TeaChéfS of.

taken in setting up a teacher-;_
training course in conserve-l

tion in the Westﬁeld Statel

College. This is all to! the
good. For in a privately en-
dowed' university complex
where there are-many thous-
ands ‘of students only ten
volunteered to take a course
in conservation.

Adults must improve their
own aWareness of the sig—
niﬁcance of current problems
. . . the pesticide men-ace,
lowering of the water table,
destruction of inland swamp
lands, invasion of. coastal salt
marshes, pollution, deforesta-
tion and the innumerable
other concomitants ’ of ex-
panding civiliZation.

A moment of reﬂection
should convince us that there
are more serious troubles

ahead; and. that we must edu-
cate the growing generation
so they will be prepared to
meet these crises with re-
sponsible citizenship.

1

“/ﬁ

 

teach an elementary course
in natural history to ﬁfth- ,,
graders.

The aim'is to acquaint chil-
dren with an understanding
of elementary forms of wild

 

One helpful step has been

' ' (One of a series)-

 

 

l

  

life, to encourage further
study and provide some basis
for understanding man’s rela-

Also available are teacher
workshops in which outdoor
be demonstrated "either on
school grounds, or on ad-
:jacent' natural areas.

The program is ﬁnanced in
each community either by a
s c ho o 1 appropriation
through ”the. .Sponsorship of
some civic group.

 

It is regrettable that this

lexcellent , grass—roots course

‘-is not requested by more?

school systems. The 457, bi-
weekly classes now con—
ducted by this body of
teachers represents a very
{small segment of the state’s
school population.

» Particularly disappointing
is its acceptance by densely
populated urban centers
where training for outdoor

appreciation is most needed. ‘

Among the larger com-
munities only Worcester,
1 Pittsﬁeld, Melrose, Holyoke

‘and Arlington have em-
lbraced it with enthusiasm.
The latter two not only
I adopted the course but ab-
sorbed some of the teachers
into their own school per-
{sonneL
I Alas, Boston’s lone class is
lsponsored by the Beacon Hill
iGarden Club! ,

As a result we still have
thousands of kids who never

saw a goat or a lamb—For

 

had avtadpole in a bottle—or

saw a cow milked.

It seems strange that more
civic groups have not sup-
ported this plan. Parent-
teacher‘ associations ,offer a
natural vehicle for promo-
tion. Local? garden
could rearrange thehir bud-
gets. L o c 31 sportsmen’s
groups which have been.

showing a greater under-4

standing of balanced con-
servation planning,
bring pressures to bear on
their school administrations.

This year the society plans
further encouragement for
school programming. For
,years its staff have directed
a six-week Summer ﬁeld

course scaled to the level of;
stu- e
with credits ,toward'

3 post- graduate
dents,
advanced degrees.

During the coming Sum-
mer it will be replaced by a;
three-week course with ﬁeld:
studies aimed to equip more
public school teachers for in-

biology

tionship to his environment. _

OI‘

 

clubs

could "

struction,,in . natural , history 5

 

 




41

J

 

;Art”

t

. . e ”
I =. 3 f i '. g ,f ‘-
, 1- ﬁ .. ., a ‘
c ‘ i , 3
'i

g F . MIDDLETOWN, n. y.
TIMES HERALD RECORD
a. 31.000

MAR 17. 1966 aka
Vﬁ

8“?” UMLEIE‘E@

PORT JERVIS
“Animals in
poster contes Have

/Winners of the

announced by the Humane Society

of Port Jervis-Deerpark. School

children in Port Jervis who were
awarded, ribbons in the nation-
wide ‘ contest included G a r y
Fleiger, first place on the junior
high level, and Frances Crawn,
first place on the elementary
level.

Second place junior high school
winners are Robert W. Pennell,
Jr., and Kathy Werner, with third
place being taken by Carey McIl.
nay, Rene Conklin, and Nancy

Russell. On the elementary level, .

second place was won by Ginger
Richards and Jody Case. Terri
Lee Weiss, Steve Lester, and
Laura Belsten won third prizes.

The

@CCECJY E1...

een ‘

‘ society urges everyone
to write to Sen. Kenneth Willard,
I-chairman of the, ‘Senate‘Agricul. [

H
msz,

ES

ture and Markets Committee,
and to Assemblyman George
Michaels, chairman of the House
Agriculture and Markets Commit.
tee, both at the State Capitol in

~Albany in support of bills 940

and 1598.
These
bills

companion slaughter
will prevent needless

In

VVEF’ETE E‘SS

suffering by animals and will
result in better, working condi.
tions in slaughter houses.
Children attending the Minisink
Valley School in Slate H i l 1
donated $107.40 to the society.
The Society will meet at the
Hotel Park Lane Monday, April
4, at 8. 7M"

 




Dr. J. Ned Bryan

Officer in Charge

Curriculum and Demonstration Branch
Division of Educational Research
Office of Education

Room.30026

400 Maryland Avenue, S. W.
Washington, D. C. 20201

Phone: 963-4885

 




w
.ﬁ:_u“-; . ‘ [j t,

I 4'” —-- I , fl if?!

(Ducks at istance

A valuable full-color handbook for all who
want to identify species of waterfowl. A guide
to ducks and geese as seen in their fall migra~
tion plumages. Most ﬁeld guides to birds show
plumages of breeding males and females. Sel—
dom do they include eclipse or fall plumages.
This guide-«for student, bird watcher, and
hunter-wtells why identiﬁcation is important
and what to look for, and shows how to tell
one species from another by ﬂight pattern, ac-
tion, color, shape, and voice. 24 p. il.

Catalog No. I49.6/2:D 85/2 25¢

Waterfowl Tomorrow

} A story of migratory waterfowl on the North
American Continent written by experts
from the United States, Canada, and Mexico

This nontechnical book details simply but
fully the many natural processes and the numer-
ous activities of man which have affected these
birds from glacial times to the present day.
One section of 13 chapters deals with progress
and recommendations for assuring‘the future of
these Wildfowl.

It is well-illustrated with more than 150 out-
standing photographs of waterfowl appearing
in print for the first time. It contains dozens
of excellent waterfowl drawings by the well-
known wildlife artist~——Bob Hines. 1964. 784
p. il.

 

Catalog No. I 49.2:W 29/5 Cloth, $4

 

Migration: of (Birds

Everyone interested in birds should find this
study of the migration of birds especially en-
joyable. It covers the various phases of bird
migration: origins of migrations, when migra-
tion takes place, how and where they travel to
and from, routes of travel, and other aspects of
the movement of birds and game fowls in the
Western Hemisphere. This study was written
and illustrated by experts in the Department
of the Interior. 1950. 102 p. il.

Catalog No. I 49.4:16 35¢

,5;
.f

,u“ ;:“ 5
.9. "1 _2; v} t ‘ g f; .‘E if";
x" Fae-is“ " ﬁrst i '7 '~ it

Books about Birds

1‘.

/
. .,,.f,.. i.
"x t’

s'w
t

7.1.
L H 7, ‘

 




, ’5 “A ,‘ I.-‘ 1*» . .' K ‘- ,L
e. _. ,4
A» v" .-' - ,- —" ;
L ”‘5‘; V‘ v '. x‘ 5 _ i ‘69..
. . Q '3" ~ ‘
‘ , . ’ e":-
x

/; f j 1;“ a
‘ '  Dean/v Lh'ws. biz-um 557;

_The bO’OkS BTY\V€0{ FYlClaa/t Cue/V1040!
Emd DUE/Ye CitSTanu—tega +0Ja11.

am *vxCAoén’so‘ ﬁke Owedar Eye/n+-

‘To ‘The :DtSTYtG’JV SCanOL‘J” Ylﬂ‘f +0 ‘er
Sc‘emce Fair \aer (AWN. H 5m?“ We.
‘)k~\05oP\x _ 0‘? ’Hne, SUEP/vugsgmq 3T $15
(«1 Qase. he quegtld‘n “UM/18.5 U “fdciTWE;
*0 our schools, Mr. Johnsm 15“ 1440st
C00 Wait-Ne, SO 1‘? The. heed Que/V C(Y\‘Sc>$
Wm WM 9,561 W “W I

{Mao \m Semdlmq .0~ ckekclgg‘
Cove/v QosJY CUY‘d W5‘\‘Y\ﬂ:®ae D i

‘ much

{1 ow 50

gimme/L1, ‘
LCACL Hcmdka‘

 




July 8, 1964
131*. P1111. J. 1111:1151
'11911v131ng Pr1ncipal
mﬂmxﬁmeaddeLﬁgm 2
ELQQKLLVQHL ﬁetaukat, 1.1.

$11? 1?. Salinas;

"L we have reeaivaé vcur latter 1f June EﬁLh, Lskzing as for
1%" LanruLLim we ELLVL an the ”Lf3$? of LLLGHLLLLLQ 9r Lsychan
1G11111 *“*“ﬁmnﬂ L5 15“ LL11» LLL LL1111e1 LG cur 0??"nizatian.
11:2 11.1171 1m 11* 11101119 L113 110110131111. 11533.3 1211‘” L (LL16: 1513111} 11111011
11 numerigallL vary limiae1, 111 we are 31 nuurgn Lqevlw Lancﬁrnad
pﬁyaimlagical affects 1f humana 1&1 inhumane maﬁhcdg
1.1L1Lng 111 ampmrimanting, and ‘Pcvaf 111138 an 1 Lgluntary

.121 :,n..1., , "1 L,
i1c§fy.,?“z.,~:1113.LQL-I;.LSL3 1313.13 11.31%} L. 112:1: 13113111511‘11L

11 311 LHLLL 01L argani:atian is an 11111111311 whey faundad
”71“";3‘13‘1’: 33:: 31111 1111,3111 MW 1&131111111 1111 21"<"1.1(‘:93 0:1" 111311.:an ﬁl‘iﬂu
=393 “Lou 1ha ceuatlyc Thﬁse apply 111 111? LL 111 level
111 L31“ Lowarﬁ 1311115 zumoLLLLLL with LLuLLL LLLL; 11111 eccum
h LL 1190r1tar§ anelLuw 111103. “111023 01 slamghtaring
LLL.LLL, L £11101: sf LILLDLhﬁ L11 L=L1rimg 1311113 131 30 Gﬂ,
Lu LL L1 11 Lﬁaz‘Lr s LELLH 11» 111.1’ 11 m1? SGhQOlS. it is
1111 tudb LLE JSyCdQlOMLch affects of ﬁumane methads
.H‘LLLLLCHILLLL m_ L J LL 11 JmmarLLive that LL un1ar111nd
1 “11111; V'”‘ ..v*« g'c' 11: L 3111 any LQLLLLLL D“O¢rﬁﬂﬁ Lenar~
311L - 1 11111 111 11 enccarayw1 directly 0r inﬁirectlv ta 1evalep
111111 11111116“ 111 LLLLLL o: an1 11111 mee L 11511? 11 L11 just1m
1y 111111 will b9 my?» 11k11; 90 “Laura as 1 01113111 Lnﬂ 51111 in»

sansitiva 11111 bhﬂﬁ qua 111 has oaen LLLLQLL 11111111.

:9" 9"
1%..»
4,,

.. 3 ,- “L , 4
r-v '71:!) , 59“ . ﬂ -,~,~ ..
1.1.21.1, 9:} 1.11.5“: Li

9,.
1

v3}.

LLr. LlLanLL VLLLLLL, L mLJLh 111131 practicing Lurrently in
191 Vark and Lff1111t91111t110rn111 1911111 Schaol, statad re-
cantly: ‘...the infllctimw cf c ualty an1 the calleusnaLL which
regults fram it aamaga tha abaractLLL 9f individuals or Lrouns 1f
Bﬁ?$en5 parmiLtad ta inflict 11....1y 1111? experiances 11 an intarn
111 r1111ent at Bellevua Psychiatric Haspital pravidad inrthar
LL11ana of tha prafaund sarieuﬁnaﬁs of the problem. 11 LL Lsaential
for the health sf cur asciaty'tc prevent crueltyg...”

Thank yam fer ynur letter; 11 will 190k farward be reading
gnu? hawk 1191 it appaars.

YaurL Lingerely,

Alexandra Pes¢hka
Exacﬁtivw Secretary

 




Telephone: SETAU KET 6-0970

 

UNION FREE SCHOOL ' DISTRICT NO.

 

TOWN OF BROOKHAVEN. SUFFOLK COUNTY

SIETlxllHLE13 NEE“! v¢3rax
PAUL J. GELINAS, ED. D.

0 BOARD 01" EDUCATION 0
Supervising Principal .
WARD MELVILLE. Preszdent
ROBERT M. PETERS. Clerk
WILLIAM w. CRAWFORD
ROSCOE J. DENTON

MRS. FRANKLIN MCCOLGIN

June 24,1964

Animal Welfare Institute
Public Relations Dept.
22 East 17th St.

New York 3, N.Y.

Gentlemen:

I am now engaged in writing a book entitled SO YOU WANT TO BE A
PSYCHOLOGIST for Harper & Row; and I should be most grateful if

you could send me whatever material you may have that possibly

bears upon Psychology as a career, your own needs in this area, the
training and Opportunities for psychologists--particularly as

these may concern your own organization and others of your associates.

Your kindness in this venture will be appreciated, and of course will
be prOperly acknwledged.

Since sly

if) , A) :3

'aul J. Gelinas

yours

 




 

9999999 929 1969

9999 999999 99 99999
$999 999999999'99199
999,99991999 9999999999

91999

999999 99 9 9999999999 99 99999 9 in

9 299 999 1999 999919999 9919999199 9f 991»
99999999 99 99919999 99 9 1999999 99 999 99t99i9199
$999 999 99999 999 99999999 9999 999999919 9999919119

‘3

999 999 999999999999 9 99199 9999

‘9?" ‘3

9" _. i9 M19393 JB‘M.‘ b5}
. 9’3': .9 99 9. ., -~ 9. w? . . -,
" 3' . ' :93 J99“) akéfp‘?§3‘;~§y a? 9.99:3 ”‘9- ? 922.9 9% 9: $9979ng 3%? $31

39 99 9999 91999 9999999999 999 19*99999999 9.9’ 39999991

931‘;

9999 9 99 i9 9 9999999999 99999 9’999 999 999 9999 999999 i9
“939999

9 99 99999 999 9999 9999 299999 99 1999999: 9999 999999 999 V99~
9919999999 99999999 9 99 999199999 9 999'1999199 £999 999 9091999
999.999991 9999999199 99999199*999 99999 91999 99991919 1999999
999 99 9999 99 99999 91999 99999 999 99 9999 99999999 £999 99

9999 999999999 9999999

if 999 9 9:999.999999999 99999999 9999 999999 999999999199 99 any
9999’ 9999 :99 99 99999

9999999999

999999999
~9999

9991999.9

 

 




 

I.IVE SEAHORSiES $I EACH

hFree Sea Shells!
Fascinating hobby for children
and adults; raise Seahorses in
goldﬁsh bowl or jar. Unusual,

, intriguing. hours of fun—sec

FATHER Seahorse give birth to
live babies! ALL orders receive
food, instructions and FREE
beautiful, imported shells-of-~

' the-world collection to decorate

1 bowl.

One Seahorse only $1;

mated pair for $2; two mated
5 pairs only $2.95 (plus 15c

I postage all orders).
‘ livery guaranteed.

"Florida Seahorse 00., Dent. NE 1,

DARLING PET

This Squirrel Monkey makes an
adorable pet and companion.
Almost human with its warm
eyes, your family will love it.
These YOUNG monkeys grow
about 12 inches high. Eats
same food as you, even likes
lollipops; simple to care for
and train. FREE cage,

FREE toy and instruc-

tions included. Live de-

livery guaranteed. Only
$18.95 express collect.

Mail check or money
order for $18.95 to:

ANIMAL FARM, Dept. NE-l.
Box 1042,

Live de-

Box 300, Miami Beach 39. Fla.

KEY
$1395

Miami Beach 39, Fla.

SEND l
It's not too :
Christmas.
made from
are a uniqu
sonaﬁzed WV
Hy,home,v
your choice
letterheads.
Send 10¢ i
tions to:

29:” Pearl

 

 

 

SPRING-SUMMER 1965

“ll

“MakeTheI
You Order

We send you
beautiful pan
plated earrin-
$1.00 . . . to p1
MONEY in sI
jewelry at ho
so easy to ma
And so easy tI
a handsome I
limited. You g
earrings (AG
RORA RHIN
HOW TO MA'
TO SELL Boo
only $1.00! M
thrilled and del
name and addr

DON-BAR COM
2934 W. Fuller

 

 




1"!

Ch»;

.3
+

&(
a *3

bicCLJL.‘

“tr

2‘?“ v. Va.) \f’LfKrLzﬂ. ..

_AcLﬁLK§cLM

[ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
223 EDasst 1'7th EStreaet

New York3, New York

c§45$?7 Abermathy Drive

5.0.5 Los Angrseles 45, California

f—wq

Your membership for the past year in the Animal Welfare Institute
has been greatly appreciated. we hope the work has met with your approval and
that you will renew your membership for another year, since it has expired as
0f September . we should welcome any comments or suggestions you care
to make.

a mt

For your convenience, a stamped, self-addressed envelope is

= r are x ...« N3 ‘ , I,
V" V \“ L Kg‘kv 7"“‘\rL;;:c..’\g

enclosed.

‘t' "L xiii.

XX \, \K X...

X (”31 4%,Kkaxk
.
O

/; .
\Mﬁ-f'xgvx
‘

Application for Renewal of Membership (Non-voting)

riPlease renew my membership in the Animal Welfare Institute (check enclosed).

(4

l

“-

AMT”
” :w?1

‘j

, a At, If _ L

f (>9 Associate Member

( ) Contributing Member - two dollars

V

NAME: M RS. QEORQE C (A Le L. R N.

CITY: k0 €12 HNGi-E LE3 STATE: QR 1... “x F. C? O C} bf 53'

‘51, “k

REMARKS: E \gpnﬁ thnkxk Vt]? L’\j\.Lj;‘qu rNNN ’\. V“
I

,3 .,N , .“ ' « ﬂ :. m ' .
Licjb/1;;j(i}%”\ Ck' ?\*~Q~53§c5~/\xL/xkaﬂL/rwsAcwcxsad\~ “mi (3 VxxJ C1«&F*+<&«L,Lgv .
. ‘V‘ \

.\ A3, -A K. Q‘Nr’ \._ V. 43.».

. '\.

xix-wt. r .p a 'L .. F2"- ‘ f} (a ’ “(A f r) a“ a V A V '
g Kai» “1 “Mickey; "u\.‘~’€\(\ ‘ 4/ yK’MV’L‘k—‘L’VW’ NR LKL ka ikﬁiwﬂ ("bk—LLKLK

i ‘J ,'- . r\‘ ‘ \ .

Cx.,»\,u.\ /\C-/ or as; l O Akevéi C? v 0‘ V" ‘ "r“ L \J; *‘ww \K‘<

\

\

(jg. Vk} k’kaKM/\L1'\4\l L\ N V , E V/L\&, 3 ‘ g ' {.l' \ _., ”k, /\H__,( ~~.._r("\ {

vim ”3;;

«V

y"

‘ : , “ ,‘tg. ‘ ' \ P ‘1 .I E ' ‘7 “’ 3 [RH-*7: > ‘ h l 7'
“j \, , -.L_/ V X (Y ‘ ”MN—“ab » L y \ (,2‘ MC_ "\/\"k"'k- I.

\

LC

 




LOS ANGELES CITY SCHOOL DISTRICTS

Div. of Instr. Serv.
Bulletin No. Gen. 17
THRIFT

October 25, 1965

Division of Instructional Services Bulletin No. Gen. 17

TO: ADMINISTRATORS OF ELEMENTARY SCHOOLS AND
JUNIOR AND SENIOR HIGH SCHOOLS

INSTRUCTIONAL AIDS AND SERVICES BRANCH
THRIFT, CONSERVATION, AND SCHOOL SAVINGS SECTION

SUBJECT: POLICY STATEMENT REGARDING COLLECTING OF PLANTS AND ANIMALS BY SCHOOL
SCIENCE OR OTHER CLASSES

It has been brought to the attention of the State Interdepartmental Conservation
Education Committee that indiscriminate practices have been observed in the collecting
of plants and animals in the name of school science or other activities.

The Committee believes that the proper study of living things is best achieved when
they are observed in the environments to which they are adapted. Under such conditions,
pupils develop a better appreciation of life in all its forms and relationships. Much
of this learning is negated if animals and plants are removed from their natural
habitats.

A major portion of such environmental studies can be achieved by the judicious uSe of
such community resources as natural areas, zoos, aquariums, and farms. A junior
museum is invaluable in providing opportunities to observe animals in environments-
which are specially created to resemble natural habitats. Most junior museums have

a loan service so that animals may be brought to classrooms for short periods. Such
an arrangement relieves the teacher of the burden of animal care and of the eventual
problem of appropriate disposition at the conclusion of the study periods.

In view of the foregoing, The State Department of Education and the Resources Agency
of California invite the public school districts to join with them in the observance
of the policy of conducting studies of living things in the environments to which
they are best adapted.

APPROVED BY ASSOCIATE SUPERINTENDENTS:

ROBERT J. PURDY
Division of Elementary Education

ROBERT E. KELLY
Division of Secondary Education

EVERETT CHAFFEE
Division of Instructional Services

 




OF
THE MDCKINGBIRDS

WASHINGTON, D.C . CEAPPER OF THE INTERNATIONAL KINDNESS CLUBS

V01. 1, No. 2
. 31.555 3 com

T—

EDITORIAL

we are happy to report
that the mockingbirds Kind-
ness Club is flourishing,
despite some setJbacks and
difficulties. we have more
than the recommended nudber
of menbers, and a waiting

TEE KINDNESS CLUB PRRIER
Dear Father, hear and bless
Thy beasts and singing birds;
And guard with tenderness

Small things that have no words.

1
i
i
i

i would‘be kinder and better to

WINTER, 1965
Washington, D.C.

J

m w(Witness Beware:

“Dog-napping" is prevalent
in this city and in our
neighborhood. The stealing of
dogs and cats is most often
done by criminals who plan to
sell the animals to labora-

tories for research work. It

 

list of children who want to
Join. The Raccoon Captain‘
wants to take this opportune
time to congratulate and
commend the memhers on their
loyalty and enthusiasm. The
boys of the Club deserve a
special word of praise for
their steadfastness, because,
being boys, they have born
the brunt of the ridicule,_
sneers and jibes of wouldu
he "toughs" of the neigh»
horhood, who tell them they
are sissies-- because they
are kind! _

It is sad that the down-
gradang of all virtues seems
to he the pepular’sport. of

3

J ﬁ§ mgc '

POETRY*CONTE§T‘WTNNERB
A contest for the best poem'by a

three KIND ( and anonymous) friends
served as Judges. The winners are:
First wine: Eric Hyland, for "The
tLending of the Penies on Asateague."
second Prize: Allegra wright, for

Third Prize: Lucy Bothman, for,
"The Cat."

Honorab e Mention: Barbara Boteler
Nor, My Pony ; Ann Pecora for
"Springtime"; Eric Hyland for "I! I 1
Went to a Pet Store."

LANDING OF THE PONIES ON ASATEAGUE

 

 

the day. But, our‘boys have

shown a manliness and counsel

far beyond what these ”tough
guys will ever achieve. If
the Mockingbirds learn ( as
they are learning) the Joy
of "being good", and develOp
( as they are develOping)
the courage to do right, our
CIUh'will have proved its

‘
l»

‘l

by
Eric Byland

'One dark and stormy night, as a
Spanish ship was wrecked,

sup from the sea and onto an island 4
shore; -- ’ 1

Came three ponies, dripping wet; and:

club menber was held this Fell.Agsin,
i
, NEVER leave your pet in an un-

i have your pet killed than to

I let such a thing happen to him.
PLEASE guard against this
possible terrible fate for
your pet. NEVER let him run
loose without your supervision.

locked Car, even for a short
s time. NEVER leave your dog
alone in the yard while you
are away from the house. BE
KIND 2 we‘heg you ! Protect

the helpless animals who are
in your care. And help, by

your vigilance, to stamp out

 

this’viciouo:crime.
PET;QENSUS‘CONTINUES

we are keeping our file up to
date on all the pets of the
neighborhood. It you have a pet
and have not been called upon. .
by a member of the Kindness Club
please telephone theMChairman,
Eric Fyland, at FE 8-827h, and
give him the necessary inform-

 

then a hundred more. 1
‘They came not as our settlers came;

 

Aworth. we hOpe all the adults
of our neighborhood will
encourage the children in
their efforts.

I

1

nor did they come to explore;

.But as the ship sank, they had no

choice but to swim to the nearest
shore.

 

‘f “ﬂmmrfhnfoont0§pta§n ‘7
Pi
The Other dr

J
A
I

cture credits: The Mockingb

continued“on“page“2

ird-- drawn.hy Maris Thuroczy
swings-- drawn and kindly donated by

gation.
gadditions to our file are:

The most recent

MARKEAM, M62 Reservoir Road,
1 cat; nsne- Noel; age 3.
SONNENBEFG th? Greenwich Pky.,
l cat(male 3 name-Cat; age 2%.
some, hh'rh Salem Lane,

2 Parakeets; names, aneybun a
Popover, ages ‘6 yrs & 7 months.

J.

 

1

Mr. Matthew Helene

 




_, .mR,‘ 1965 w
MASTHEAD

w ww—

TﬁE CALL, pdbliehed quaterly by
The Mockingbirds, Whehington,
C. Kindness Club.
per cepy.

Editor: Evelyn Defby

Asst. Editor: Eric Byland
_Bueineee Manager: The Raccoon
VA Certain

Fifteen cents

THE MDCKINGBIRDS

"Lucy Rbthmen, President
Elieea Free ) Vice-presidents
Magdalene Fvega)

EEhoreh Thompson, Secretary
Ann Pecora, Treasurer

Eric Eylend, Program Chairman
-Berbere Hoteler

Evelyn Derby

Blanche HBnline

Laura EEnline

Anita Pitts

Alexander Thompson

Marie Thuroczy

fﬁhrpiet weinstein

Allegra Wright

ﬁ WAW

D. .

 

1- www

SPRINGWIME.
by
Ann Fecore

springtime is hrlnglng
30ft'breezes singing,
Little girls swinging,

A few robine'Winging

And church belle ringing.

'Eeter’aummertime comes
And humming birds hum,
“Drummer‘hoys drum,
Children chew gum;

And this is when summer
‘Ehe Just begun.

AITRE‘GNUL' L .“l A

a o “ ,zgep;2;,tw¥
POETRY WINNERS CONTINUED Faom.ewem 1

AL

There were pintos, and black ones, and whites they were
beige and gray, ' ‘_

‘ But not alone were they, for the silence of night accompaniﬁdr
their tired neighe. ,

There were foxes and deer and rabbits; there was the whipyeerh
will's song breaking the stillness of night.

And, although their neighbor islands are settled by men and
dog--

Agateegue remains wild for ever none 3

 

é
E

MY DOG
by
Allegra Whight

I happened to have a dog,

Who ate like a great big hog.
She wasn't the type

Who loved to fight;

My dog was a hog.

 

my dog is etill alive;

And has all that fat on her hide.
Luckily my dog can stand the cold,
Becauee ehe has all that fat to hold.

THE CAT
by
Lucy Rothman

g
l
l
3
Z
s
i
g
E
E
S
?
é

A cat is docile,

Bright and awake.

Never when judging

Does she make e mistake.

if"!

m”-

Her eyes are like diamonds
Like emeralds, they shine.
Freedom and swiftnese
Are her only shrines.

 

HRr legs are like lightning
She moves with great eyeed.
”Nbve Feet with the wind!"

 

TVW

'KIHDNESS
by
Deborah Thompson

Kiﬁﬂnees is e.geature we should
always use. we should help one
another. we should be kind to
enimele.ee well as humans. we
should

we eheﬁld take flowers and do
other things to make them feel

better. we eheuld elveye BE KIND.

#ﬁjn'm 'wm.w:=u~gw92mm-w 21': WW _ _

ctice hﬁndneee in schoo
anewee heme. When friends are sic;

That is her creed.

ME PONY
by
Benbere Botaler

I had a grey pony

lhver far would he roam.
He would trot very slowly
Then come gnlIOping home 3

 




How THE TURTLE GOT HIS SHELL
by
Barbara Boteler ~

A turtle was Just walking along
lazily. me was wondering why he
didn't have any protection againet
rein, tun,end anew. He thought
maybe he should invent something.
Wh4le he wee walking elong, he
.notlced there was on empty bowl
on the side of the road. He pick-
ed it up and put it on his back.
.It formed e protective shield
against almost everything. This
hee'been used for thousands of
other tnrtlee. This first turtle,
Herman was put in the History
Building of the Turtles.

 

."

IF I wenw TO A PET STORE
by

Exlc Byland

If I went to a pet store

The animals there would be thelre‘
‘And the burro that lives in

no‘more.

I'd buy the Noneh.bird perched
near the door;

And the dogs and cats that walked
the floor.

The cockatoos and Tucona with
their bright bills

And the tanks that'with the fish
were filled.

The monkeys in the cages I would
buy;

And the tortoise that loves to
catch the flies.

 

L L...

WjP—v—

..wyg~-‘~ ,. .. ,H.,-4W,. .
TEE KINDNESS CLUB PLEDGE: "I premise to be kind to animele, as well as peeple, and t.o speak

Tee.og§;

WHEN KINDNESS (??) CAN HURT A PET

Unv4ttingly, many otherwise kindly pet owners inflict un~.

necessary suffering on their pets.

The f°1lﬂwine Practices, roe~

example, can hurt far more than help:

IMPROPER FEEDING.

Owners often allow

pets to eat what they

l4ke, even though some an4male will eat epo 4led or poisoned food
They should have a nu+v4+4onel veterenarian-epproved diet.

A steady diet of milk can cause digestive upeete in kittens.
Spl4ntered bones can choke a dog or ynnture the intestines.

Obesity, from too much food,
' ALLOWING PET€ T0 ROAM.
at w4ll. The pet is exposed to bed

Many people let a dog

can shorten a pet' a l4fe.

or cat wander
weather, d4eeaee from other.

animals; he may be hurt or killed in fights or traff4c3.he may.

go too far and be 1.03

-the house and/or fenced yard (wzth

outside. )
It :48 NOT cruel

pet sleeps
OVERBREEDING

.to deny a dog or cat a chance to

breed. The REAL cruelty is to
allow pets to produce unwanted
litters. As a result, there are
over ho million homeless dogs and
cats in the U.S.
puppies and kittens are cruelly

.ebendoned or killed inhumanely.

TOO MUCH ATTENTION. Little
kittens and puppies are easily
exhausted, often terrified and
frequently hurt by too much play
and cuddling. A young animal needs
Much rest.

SPOILING. A pet becomes confused

and nervous without CONSISTENT
discipline and obedience training.

Ndlllons of other

It is far kinder to keep your pet in

an adequate doghouee if the

 

Physical punishment 43 NOT necessary; pets respond
sens4tively to pra4.eing or scolding tonee.

The ocelot that dwells behind
the bare

the back yard.

And, of course! I'd buy all
ten raccoons; ‘
And the 38318 that love to

bounce balloons.

That is what I'd like to do

But I already have a tiny zoo.

My parents would never allow it

For my pets need lots of room.

And there's a limit to my
allowance.

 

 

But that is what I'd like to do
,* 3 75;,4.= . ‘ '

WHAT IS A DOG ?

A dog is a heart with a tail.‘

He is a'bundle of,lo?e wrapped

Up in a tongue.

A dog is all you want to aey-
~ and can't!

He 45 everything you feel»
~ and more!

A dog gives his whole soul
— to you.

And when he goes, he takes
part of you with him.

AN9N

A.»

A kitten is a ball of fluff)

- lined with a purr.

and act in defense of all helpless living creeturee."

 




li-

" some, 1965

‘L

“—v—r

DID YOU ﬂow 7
THAT: The Mbckingbirds gave their
Kindness Award for the year 1965 to
Mrs. Leocede Leighton for "her out-'
standing kindness to animals, as ex-
emplified in her steadfast devotion to
her dogs."
THAE: The Teilweggers' Club and non-
profit Clinic treated over 10,000
'animels in 1965.
THAT: under the Chairmanship of Blanche
ﬁenline, the Mockingbirds ere assembl-
ing Christmas boxes of toys, books and
clothing to give to Jhnior Village.
, THAT: Abraham Lincoln said, ” I care
not for a man's religion if his dog
and cat are not the better for it."
THAT: The Angeli Mbmoriel Hospital
for Animals, in Boston, Mass., hes a
resiﬂent internship program that
ettreCkssyoung veteranerians from all
over the world.
THAT: the average age of the Mocking-
birds is 935:.

ibeautiful tail.

B03 HAD TO GIVE ME A RAISE WHEN HE SKW THIS MOUTH
T0 FEED. . '

(ps. that's a lion
Pps. this is a comic)

1
—ver

by
Renters Boteler

HOW THE BOBwTAIL CAT GOT THAT WWY

by
Ann Encore

A long, long time ego, the Estateil set hea e long, _
It was so hemmtif‘ul that s Panther tried

 

vwv—wv— ‘7 r-

WINTERTIME
by
Lucy Rothman

wintertime‘s e nice time,
Cold, snow and ice time.
Bundle up in clothes so warm
’Eherets no worry of a storm.

Wintertime's a nice time
A cold, snow and ice time.

A TEDUGHT
by
Allegra wright

Music is fun
.Mhsie is'gsy
whale is better
Than selfish play.

 

vf'v

RINDNESS CLUB CARDS

The Mockingbirds sell ettuective
note paper sea Christmas cerde for
.59-QPntB for e package of 12. If you
are interested, please call Harriet
.Weinstein,'0ard Chairmen, at FE 3-2h2h.

 

The worst sin toward our fellow
oreeteees is not to hate them, but to
he ineifferent to them: that's the
eesense of inhumanity. 0.8. Show

to bite of? every Eobuteil cat's tail that he new, but he
had no success. '

Then one night he crept very quietly into their ceve,l
.heing sure not to sveken any of them. He got in.hetween
two of them and SNAPE'he hit one of their tails off one
quickly ran away. how, einoe it one in‘hetveen the two
cats, the now‘hohateiled one thought one of the othere
lent bit it. 80 he_hit off the other's teil eno quiehly
got on his bed, out of the way. The other now hoh~tsi1ed_
est thought e different one he& acne it, ena hit of? his
tail. Et cetere.

Oh, in case you're wondeying, they fauna out that the

' panther did it enﬂ so the tivet one hit off the yenther'e

tail. So, whenever snﬂ if ever you see a hoh~teiled
lpsnther, you'll know that one of his ancestors wee
responsible for the Bdh~teil Cot.

 

77....

KINDNESS
by
Evelyn Derby

Kindness is a little thing

It always sets me wondering

No matter where you go or play
You find it each and every day.

Kindness can he big or smell.
In an alley; in a hell '
In the summer; in the Fall
Anywhere or time at ell!

How would you like it if people you knew.
were mean unkind and very crug1?\ ' -

 

So always remember the Golden Role.

 




July 23, 1955

$133 ﬂaryﬁ Klingar

3553 Elﬁerbarry Rmaé

ﬁarﬁh Ballmara

Lang Islaﬁd, K$W‘Yafk 11?12

Daar Caryn:

@hgmk you far yﬁu? kinﬁ latker.

Remartg a? lattara far printing in ﬁﬁe halleiin
ahmalﬁ %@ a%aut anim&l§ and wayg 0? being kimé %@
thama Thia might imcluda ihe ra§e?t 3f an avamt
gush as tha F8$Gﬁ$ of an animal a? ii might be an
essay an goaﬁ cara sf a yartiaular kind of amimalw
‘ﬁa waulé ha va?y glad t0 :ﬁar fram yang

Bast wiﬁhﬁﬁa

Eimc®rely,

Frasiﬁanﬁ

 




Miss Caryn Klinger
2553 Elderberry Road
,~ North Bellmore,
§Lolo , N.Y. 11712

a

Z
A7 77 J7» » ,
L687 2,2 ﬂaw 8/ :,{;:/z:w7g::r7zw

/

.CC/wéiaaéf 7/ 1:7 0 1L {4 52’ MA. (ii/C
x”; (16/. xézé:;“ é ﬂ/ZL X3» 7' 06/ C: 76/ 7Xné/Léé6’ {/‘V; (fii/

{fa/(17021} »/ [7% 5/» Ml‘mof/ 44/50 {52,195 u/
(ﬁzzy/V , ,1 ( H.667“? ,J/xct Iva f (at --J (2%
aw 16/ 201.4%; a Jazz: C» «a

W 7/2.?

2’11; 261 ZK/sz’x' «(j C (Mk;

//é?/7i g/g/(L(é 41% 57/ 7,7/éfﬂﬂ/

4/

”77/

 




 

Auguat 17, 1955

ﬁr. ﬂabby Eaumdﬁva
732 $3953aaﬁ'ﬁill Swiva
Emma-mum Virginia

Saar E$%@Fii

Mrﬁ. ﬁﬁymﬁ mf ﬁh$ Earth Caralimg Ramane Fadaﬁatian hag writtam
ma tet®1l~ma @f ymur‘kiné intareaﬁ in tha humane treatment of
ﬁnimlﬁ a

3h$ amgg@$tad that ywu mighﬁ gamd ma a ragart @m ﬁhﬁ tamr'wmieh
year-ﬁaiwnaﬁ almb maﬁa in wﬁieh imprayer ﬁvaatmﬁmt ef axgariwwnm
tal amimals wﬁg $bs$rvad aw? if yaw hava sinca visitad the camm
paﬁy ywurﬁalfg & ragort af yam? awn abaarvatians‘

Yam may h$ intﬁragﬁaﬁ im thw $ﬁﬂl$$®ﬁ materi&l fur @uniwrsﬂwmw
barg a? th@ énimal walfara Iﬁﬁﬁiﬁiﬁa, and ya wvmld ha bapﬁ? ta
ﬁand ywu am? mﬁhaw litaratawa yam may Eagaaate

Simearalyg

83:13

Enclagmrag

 




J
Si

w
3: J ﬁwg‘e

\w/

Anéerw D. Levy
9706 Damean DR.
Silvar Sping Ed.

T73 GmGlmm ; ,
tLG problem. I was nGt at th: mww+iNan SGpt.2

T
‘

W11: yGIA y. ;, a PGpGrt? I an 9 3M cfﬁ GldGG CG nGt quite
vhéeratap~ aorG 6f tre tr"Lgs yGu hGVG Gent. DG yGu thiug yGu
Gauld start q tailing Gls**c”"u*“er

* *FOR
sincerely

Andrew D. Levy

 




79.151511

~.a:.*‘ ”'“

, N- My V
.‘7asﬂxu;..-.i‘a.—vru‘-‘ b.

”av—«qweu .. 4 ='

 




MCGTEW u

‘73. ‘!
“ESQ:

. all mea
in Gkili 7 1 m

a
.1

t F. 1”" i'iJOX‘V 1 ”"éijl

‘1‘

t! 9

elementary school

(‘7: raw, v \w (W
X .1

Am

/)

5/1“] KW~KML

‘

.r; ’) at V
..4 e. .w«

9

Rock

n“
Comta

m} 5:5:
Offs, 1‘3 . 4

m; :29? F3

Jib .1».

Eda Eor
Deg: 5: _z“‘?..:..:ga.en't

l I J v »
‘f‘zﬂjq’ .5": 1.1.7 :1 "

N... ”WM.

/. a M m

' 4 j . ”if" L '
‘33:} ..., 7 J 1,!“ 2“ a/ “J

(Av/”w 7”y
“r; J Ar \
7.3547, I13}: .7 [bf/’12. v—z,‘ ( 4V

“V uaj ﬂﬁﬂ‘é 44/241;

J '4'..z...,g/.e. .4 2., £1

[viva—5
“’1’

 




WHITTIER WOODS ELEMENTARY SCHOOL
WHITTIER BOULEVARD
BETH ESDA l4. MARYLAND

OFFICE OF THE PRINCIPAL

3131;»65

ma “:3 3. .2
$8531" 3&331QEX'8? 33.63.33,; ,

Mu!

E wigh ta axprews $9 Emu again haw am§0y&%1a aw 3nd ingtructive mm

.1 . 3...,“ 3,. ‘ r q ‘ 1' I‘ a; ‘m. ' ‘ﬁ‘,’ ‘9”- . '3 ‘ .4” i A. 7‘}
ywur taik ﬁgs. xmmy; many'yguﬁgﬁzera ﬂmVﬂ $§aﬁen t0 me amwut 12 and t e

3 \ 1,. _ , e .». L ,‘vt , , 3 3:". ,. .... ‘3: " . 1 . 4»
Vﬁfﬁﬂﬂﬁ ieaemarﬁ .' a ma 3n ﬂmﬁﬂhllg van 30f gORE time anm taleng.

M

n
u

If wﬁg 9 traat ﬁg have you as ear guegt ﬂaring 330k Méek.

k3

again «m real agen.
’1' .
ﬁancerelg,

‘f‘

‘V‘ V ""1 .
’ l <\. 1w, ”(8‘ 0-3 1 a ‘ 4.43 3 3! .1} a'
g} Egg 3, 35.3%.: 3‘ . 33.3.; ugh?

 




LITTLE, BROWN AND CGMPENY
Publishers
34 Beacon Street, Boston 6

hrs. Sherry Reed
8607 Ewing Brine
Bethesda, Md.

Des-r Mrs. Reed:

Kass silliams of our Permissions Department has referred.your
letter of Kay 12/ to us since I am the editor of PETS by Frances Chrystie.

I do appreciate your telling us of your objection to the statement

on page 52 regarding the treatment of animals in laboratories and also

I am impressed.by the documenys with which.you have accompanied the letter.
All of this I have of course referred to the author and I shall be very
surprised if she does not agree that we should either delete or change
substantialxy her original statement. I shall be in touch with.you again
to inform you of just what so have been able to do.

Meanwhile, it occurs to me that you.might be interested in seeing a new
book which we have just published by Thornton Burgess. It is probably the
last book we shall be able to do for this champion nature story writer now
in his 92nd year. Those who have read it have been delighted with the large
amount of good information about animal environments which he has been able
to pack into one book, and they have also been impressed by the slightly
different approach he has used compared to that of his earlier stories.

I don't know whether it is one you would consider recommending in your book
on humane education in the schools, but naturally we hope that it may be.

Sincerely,

Helen L. Jones
Editor, Children's Books

 




Dgar Christine:

‘ny efforts to findzmoney for publication are so discouraging that I am
ready to burn the manuscript. Another person, however, high.in the production
of curriculum in Maryland, has read it and says it fits sell;into the courses
of every state and that she herself finds nothing in it to change, or to add.

Dr, westerlund would like to present it to his students before the classes
close in August. By now, however, he probably has written his own which he hinted
that he might do.

Do you suppose each of the larger humane societies would contribute ?

They will be using it —— but the time required to have them.examine it individually
would delay it being offered for this year‘s courses of study which are written at

the beginning of the summer. (Defenders of Wildlife has the Rachel Carson Fund).
None of these organizations would respond to pi requests, however, because they do
not know no and.my prestige is not sufficiently impressive.

One thought is that they might pay for all additional printings after the original
publication - if this makes sense to you, or saves money.

Please call me soon. I am waiting to write the Table of Contents to see
if there:ihﬁ§ny additions or deletions because it means re~nuabering of the pages.
Eventhing also is finished except your final reading. You suggested that two or three
of the pages that I had removed be put back. The number of pages will be between
115 and 145.

I cannot help but believe that hrs. Johnson, in her quest for beauty, would have
imaediatol a fund that'might be used for publishing our MS. Humane Education goes along
80 perfect With the campaigns on Beauty, the Great SOCIETY, and Poverty. Could.you
suggest it ? I will polish up a neat copy for her to review; I sent you.3 inserts on
Beauty to add to your copy. I have since edited them a bit. IJZ/

. ,Laiax7

£%Eoeee&24pe€iéeauﬁeﬂdead?fvvaHrb57ffdecafﬁheznna;uaér¢a(C.éﬁthbfé4,o

 




[if :,,,  

i
,
a '” Ll... .

In the grades that pursue the subject of commence in a Social Studies

unit there could be presented the subject of BEAUTY and its eethetic value to the
minds and the behavior of human beings —- not only beauty of plant and animal
life in the fields, streams and in the wilderness-but beauty in the cities, towns,
and along the highways which comes with preserving orderliness and preventing
injury to peaceful landscapes.

Perhaps an example could take the form of a unit or enterprise which
might carny a class on a short field trip to beautify a neglected vacant lot in
the community. Shrubs and flowers might be planted there to replace waste paper,
tin cans and other refuse. In only one season, bird feeders and flowering plants
could Show'membere of a new generation some results of working toward keeping their

country beautifU1.

 




 

S

{'0'
m

3%

a.“
«.1
m
(L
Q

44.
."
1.

 




 

tr , 4c-

cientiﬁcally as well as aesthetically, one of
S the most spectacular advances in nature
study — particularly in bird study — is the
development of sound recordings made in
the ﬁeld under natural conditions. The songs
of elusive birds may now be heard and
learned at leisure, giving the listener a val-
uable tool for identiﬁcation in the ﬁeld as
well as enjoyment in the experience
recaptured.

hese long-playing records, many with

descriptive text or illustrated booklets
enclosed, reproduce with exciting clarity the
flutelike phrases of the Hermit Thrush, the
rollicking song of the Bobolink, the buzzes
and trillings of insects, even the croaking
of frogs at night and the haunting chorus
of a duck marsh awakening at dawn.
S OUNDS OF NATURE includes such a variety

of records and formats that there is one
to suit every interest. Some of the albums are
primarily intended to re-create a particular
habitat, area, or season unusually rich in
nature’s sounds. A Day in Algonquin Par/e,
for instance, is an evocative sound-story
composed of birds songs from Northern
lakes and forests, including the weird and
dramatic cry of the loon. Of this sequence
James Fisher said, ”quite the best and most
exciting recording I have ever heard —— tech-
nically and aesthetically.” An Evening in
Sapsuc/eer Woods is even closer to the nat-
ural scene — Side Two presents a woodland
scene without any commentary. Instead, the

1‘

birds and animals come quietly to the listen-
er one by one; the Veery’s liquid song
begins the concert, and as night falls, the
record ends with the Vesper Sparrow, Her-
mit Thrush, frogs and owls.

he records in this SOUNDS OF NATURE

series are ideal for many, whether learn-
ing the common songs of the garden, iden-
tifying the calls heard on the morning’s
walk, or bringing to the city apartment the
beautiful sounds of wood and ﬁeld.

 

Distributed by Hougbton Mifflin
Company, tbe SOUNDS OF NA-
TURE series is produced by Tbe
Cornell Laboratory of Ornithology
(C.L.O.) and Tbe Federation of On-
tario Naturalists (F .O.N )

Drawings by Orville 0. Rice
Photograph by A. A. Allen

spe
trat
ner.
lear

eas
25

witl
self




Book-and-Record Albums
SONGBIRDS OF AMERICA I

An immensely popular album of 24 common
species with descriptive text and color illus-
trations. Designed particularly for the begin-
ner, it offers numerous suggestions for
learning songs and discovering birds. (C.L.O.)

BIRD SONGS
IN YOUR GARDEN

A guide to the birds commonly heard in
eastern gardens. Full-color photographs.
25 birds with descriptive text; one side is
without vocal commentary for enjoyment,
self-testing, or attracting the birds. (C.L.O.)

  

://
DAWN IN A DUCKBLIND

For the birdwatcher and sportsman. Color
photographs, plates and text identify more
than 25 waterfowl; one side reproduces the
bird calls without commentary and includes
a special section for practice in imitating
mallard calls. (C.L.O.)

Book-and-record albums are spiral bound

Survey-Study Records

 

AMERICAN BIRD SONGS

These two albums select common birds and
group them according to area and habitat;
ample song length and commentary are in-
tended to interest and aid the listener.
(C.L.O.)

Volume I

North Woods, Northern Gardens and Shade
Trees, Southern Woods and Gardens, Fields
and Prairies, Game Birds.

Volume II
Further collections of North American bird
songs; includes Birds of the Roadside, Lakes
and Marshes, and some North American
Warblers.

PLEASE SEND ME THE FOLLOWING RECERDSZ

Book-and-Record Albums ’ 4‘
Songbirds of America $6.95 '

 

 

 

Bird Songs in Your Garden 6.95
Dawn in a Duckblind 6.95
Survey-Study Records
_____American Bird Songs, Vol. I 7.75
__American Bird Songs, Vol. II 7.75

Records for use with the Peterson Field Guides
___A Field Guide to Bird Songs (2) 10.95
_.__A Field Guide to Western Bird

Songs (3) 12.95

For detailed comparative study
Thrushes, Wrens and Mockingbirds 5.95

 

 

 

Finches 5.95
WWarblers 5.95
Days enioyed Out-of-Doors
___A Day in Algonquin Park 5.95

Prairie Spring 5.95

Songs of Spring 5.95

 

__An Evening in Sapsucker Woods 4.95

Unusual Songs and Sounds

 

 

 

 

Music and Bird Songs 5.00
___Voices of the Night 6.75
____The Songs of Insects 7.75
Sounds Abroad

Mexican Bird Songs 7.75

A Day at Flores Moradas 5.95

Voices of African Birds 7.75
___.__More Voices of African Birds 7.75
[3 Payment enclosed [1 bill me
Name ..............................................................
Street ..............................................................
City & State .............................. Zip ................

(add any city or state tax)

DOUBLEDAY BOOK SHOPS
724 Fifth Avenue at 57th St.
7 New York, N. Y. 10019

 




 

I

~- For use with the
Peterson Field Guides

A FIELD GUIDE
TO BIRD SONGS

300 species on 2 LP records. Intended for
brief identification, these albums follow the
Field Guide closely. (C.L.O.)

A FIELD GUIDE
TO WESTERN BIRD SONGS

500 species found in western North America,
Hawaii and Alaska on 3 LP records. (C.L.O.)

For more detailed
comparative study

THRUSHES, WRENS
AND MOCKINGBIRDS

More than 100 songs and calls of America’s
best-loved — and most competent -——- song~
sters. (F.O.N.)

F INCHES

About 400 songs from 43 species
of the finch and sparrow family.
A helpful introduction to these
cheery songbirds. (F.O.N.)

‘b
~~~~~~~

WARBLERS

An invaluable guide to our most tantalizing
and elusive species. 400 songs from 38 spe-
cies of eastern warblers. (F.O.N.)

  

Days enjoyed Out-of-Doors
A DAY IN ALGONQUIN PARK

An evocative sound-story composed of songs
and calls of birds found in the Northern lakes
and coniferous forests. (F.O.N.)

PRAIRIE SPRING

The natural sounds and bird calls that por-

tray the coming of spring to the Canadian
prairie. (F.O.N.)

SONGS OF SPRING

Designed to help one recognize and enjoy
the 25 most common songbirds in northeast-
ern America at their richest season of song.
(F.O.N.)

AN EVENING
IN SAPSUCKER WOODS

Voices of the bird and amphibian inhabitants
of a wildlife sanctuary in New York. Identified
on one side, the bird songs blend in a wood-
land concert on the other for greater chal-
lenge and enjoyment. (C.L.O.)

..........
,,,,,,,,,,

Th
rec
str




‘ Unusual Songs
. and Sounds

MUSIC AND BIRD SONGS

The songs of birds and frogs, at natural and
reduced speeds, producing beautiful and
strange melodies. Useful for analysis. (C.L.O.)

  
  
    
 

 
  

' .. T
VO‘CEE} OF TﬁmEd Sﬁezggwo

‘ the
u~ of 34 Frogs and Toads of
3 '58 )).

 
  

 

The €33

   
 
 

ﬁéfs'wﬂ’é A :M’AO'” '3; “I. . - "
3w ; "

 

' " ’6
(ﬁlﬁﬁit UWSQSQ

VOICES OF THE NIGHT

The trills, calls, and songs of 34 species of
frogs and toads found in North America.
(C.L.O.)

THE SONGS OF INSECTS

Calls of crickets, grasshoppers, and cicadas
in the eastern United States. (C.L.O.)

Sounds Abroad ‘

MEXICAN BIRD SONGS

The voices of 74‘ of the most representative
birds of Mexico. (C.L.O.)

A DAY AT FLORES MORADAS

A sound picture of the exotic Llanes country
of Venezuela. (F.O.N.)

 

VOICES OF AFRICAN BIRDS

42 African birds recorded with commentary.
(C.L.O.)

MORE VOICES
OF AFRICAN BIRDS
90 additional species. An eight-page descrip-

tive booklet is included in this second guide
to African birds. (C.L.O.)

 




55555 555 255 55”“

M
""5 ~
'35. g

$55555 55 555555555 35 3*
3515555 5555555555

55” 5555555 5555 £55553
"Waun't 5i; 1 ngﬂﬂ’)

”555.5555 155’“- 5ﬁ§55

3555 555555 55 5555555
555 3555 5553’5553 5555555 5555
515555” £5~55~5~ 555 5555 55

55 555555 5555 t5 5555 5 555 555595
ggggﬁlg, 555515555, 5555 555 m1 555“ 55 555 555 5~5555

: In .‘W
WI. '1' ”5‘ ,‘ .11!" lg ' ‘ . . «r. t:
55555 55 555555555 5 5555.

55 5555555 55'555

5515 55 5555 55 5555 55555’55555
ﬁn :35 ‘zmm 5 513555 55525.

5555* 55 555555 555 ,5554

c?»
«I .~ av
89:

wx~555555 55:, 555 55

55 5555555

 




 




Wyéqﬂ Awwwb— vary-f My )"npaz/L

FWD 4/v/ Mat?” ”ti/(.4. éé/M a ..... ”Q”W‘ﬁzﬂ~?{xﬂ VJ”? {f lﬂﬁf
xt/{jﬁ/ZEL’ [’Zixbﬂm gfaw: {/¢W:’ ‘, ,5:

‘ if," 5! 9V

/ W/J/ & 33%.. “:3 ti“? (giggﬁgg 3‘2 Lﬂwﬁﬂn M f

v 1' ’23-,» ’ ‘
ﬂ." ’ v‘ V ‘ .g 4..»
w Ez‘Zw’Mw-“ﬁ away g .1 gr. ,‘ X
van! - f4 ’ Ll} ’

f} w”: V '
VbAﬂ :M{ Mr? #34, 11” {of 59 «g, 34,; f.“ 92/ f»: . ) 1‘me “if"

 




31111111 111 1111

E11 $111111 3111111
125 $111 ?311 311111
111 $1111 111 2111

11111 11.111111111111111

1111 1:711 11 111111 5111
1111 £11 1 111

n?

1111111 111 11 1111 E 11111 t 111 1111* ““11
1f 111 111 1111;19: 1w 1111111111 1111

”111111 15 11 11 11111 151111 s1111111; 111 E 1131 111
1111 11. 11111111 3 1111 1111 111 111 11-1111
1111 111211111 111 111111 111 1 1111 1111131

-11:111111ni111 11111111111-1111 11 1111 1111 111 1111

' v51 1

11.1.,

x.“

:1:-=3»:

41:?

Q
Emma” Nii‘n? ' %

111111111

 

 




 

Emvamhww-31 396%

1;»...

I.) \J

3333' :3...

a. . n
2' \1.‘ {43:
<‘ 1 . L. ‘

J
{311

n
1“
1

,.

.1 2- my}
1» 1431.3.va '

1 3
HA.

'1“ ﬂ ’
111;»; 7’1 1

W "
1 v-‘i
w 1.11.113

’37!!!

“@3113. *3

"- 333
r‘. u. ‘5‘» L 1.38.

1&1 11-1 ﬂew!“
"3 ‘1-

.13.“ I 01% “'3‘

"a

£11! 33.1313. «1333333

{$1.0M 1, 1 m 3 {’1 EYE:

"3'? 4:.»
.. 1.:

.1 .{P‘} Mg M" (:3.

.. svl‘vﬁhf avg“?

Qtiﬁﬁ an 33%

11,1 11“» 1‘19

11-,
59:12

5‘4" 33.7.. 1‘

“g 1:5“ 3: I,“ 1‘?{W(ﬁ‘;y‘p~ ”'14,“! " ‘ ‘
‘1. «1.1.: 3L3- 1.11111
3115 f

1.1;,”

3"1‘35
1301:: , 53.7..

.

w ~‘r “-1":

u’(
33' n3 1,. «2-11» ‘15:: m *r “.3133-
I ’ ,4,w»9“}x“lh

1;...‘3

1
i. 1723

717». w. ‘1 m *7“
in .5

9 .1;
1,1,, «15.51», m. ”
.91 41, “hr 1' 3 "~ - "

533$ 33.13 33333»

"5,131
1.3- ‘1‘

”35.5.3
..,

 




Alan Fussbeum
107 Stratford Horth‘
Roslyn Hts, ZI.EY.

InSto

Dear Sir,

In regard to your book about
biological experiments. If it is at all possible
coulé you please senﬂ me more detailed and
specific information on ttopioel fish ens es er-
iments that can be done for experiments. If
you mention a certain ex. cougd you please tell
me where if possible I could receive certain
info. ems equipment to assist and add depth to

the oréject. Thank you Very much.

‘—

izURE-B mum ,

ALAN EUSSBAUE

 




THE NATIONAL HUMANE EDUCATION CENTER

BOX 149 WATERFORD, VIRGINIA

October 27, 1965

The.Animal Welfare Institute
22 East 17th Street,
New York, N. Y. 10003

Dear Sirs:

As a beginning phase in the development of the National'
Humane Education Library here at the National Humane Education
Center in waterford we are trying to collect files of material
covering each animal welfare organization in the United States.

we should be happy to receive from.you a file covering the
scope of your work, your oy-laws, sample copies of your publica-
tions and especially we would like materials covering your humane
education program addressed to children and/or adults.

we should be most happy to be on your mailing list.

Very sincerely yours,

r

_.- ‘2 U . I, ,. // ’
A, ~ 1493.49.56 _./‘L.(;2/ L—(ﬁyxifv. _

W. Scott Mahoney
Director

Robert J. Chenoweth, Chairman of the Board, Kansas City, Mo.; D. Collis Wager, Vice Chairman, Utica, N.Y.; Oliver Evans, President, Washington, D.C.;
Edward M. Bostick, Treasurer, Falls Church, Va.; Grace Conahan, Secretary, Webster Groves, Mo.; Cleveland Armory, New York, N.Y.; Dr. Myra
Babcozk, Detroit, Mich.; Edith J. Goode, Washington, D.C.; Frederic D. Kerr, San Rafael, Calif.; Prof. James T. Mehorter, Charlottesville, Va.;
Mrs. George F. Milliken, New York, N.Y.; Jacques Sichel, Union, N.J.; F. L. Thornsen, St. Petersburg, Fla.; Mrs. Edward S. Voss, Monkton, Md.;
6. Martin Winemiller, Findlay, Ohio. HONORARY DERECTORS: Mrs. Bolling Barton, Pikesville, Md.; C. Edward Boggs, Hong Kong; Mildred
Fitz-Hugh, Lake Forest, lll.; Arthur P. Redman, Seattle, Wash.; Mrs. Alice Wagner, Mountainside, N.J.; Alice Morgan Wright, Albany, N.Y.

 




EEEEEEber 28, 195&

E? E. my 213.“ “335331 22:}
EEEEEE -EEEEEE
MEEEEEvgt EEf EEE E1;

”‘2 1",”:
yum-J1. $451.". ,

ghﬁLéﬂialﬁg

EzEEEE . EE.

”13'1“ -. E . M ~ . . . . 1 ' - ~ . ; 2 ' : $1 ‘ . 2 5‘ 77% . .1

’ﬁﬂ’E’E’ I "Li - 2.4 ”.14: w J. 2- , ‘ »~. ., {3.5. - XE: ”1.3? $3? L2,? .3,”
EEE Eu”? 3;: VET 2E21 EEE EEElf EJEE EE EEE EEE EwbgiEEw

' i

, mi ; "" j ﬁaj KELEL’ .2.) .. > _. " 2‘ .' ”VQ‘I? + $1 QW.5 ‘BWﬁfzjﬁ’ﬁ 92373 “
TEEEE’; . - EEEEE EhE fEEEz N 2.»:E7E6Eiﬁkﬁ
‘ . 4 W J, . . ‘ K- J . ,. M . 1‘5 » - "‘ ' "g 1 '
hi} 2?. ififgﬁts ~ {:13 3 5} i. 5’; I”? .M {:31 the 1 .. J. Tm... . £3. {‘ Jami,” ?
.Ei;;‘%3¢g;margti z;>. EEEE L. “'E E; 34- 2%? ~ Egg
:5? « :ﬁuﬁ X. “in if; .. j v: .' :3 H k; 33;: "' ”9%“ {f Y ‘ x I ." :13}, L
W 9-:
...,~.. . .. . .2. -- ‘. , », 2 'W -" w
£22235; g. 3 E [ifﬁiiw -' ; ‘ k 2&3“???
. ”if
1-3.

.«r- w a a ,m w, b ".3." “5:3 7 ' 1; *7 _ J" j . . (1“ *1. ‘3"?
Letstx kt 4.11.; ’w‘J. ‘._ . I; 3&3: _: . t. -3. -. 7’; .. .8 9.?

ElEEEEdEE EEEeﬁkE
.52; ~ Qu‘uﬁp iv 9 75;“ IJmCeWt’E-w r Yaw?“

 




Mid-Florida Educational Television

BOX 271

ORLANDO, FLORIDA 32802 '
Code 305 — CH 1—4651

September 16, 1964

 

A. F. EDMUNDS, DIRECTOR

Animal Welfare Institute
22 East 17th Street
New York 17, New York

Gentlemen:

Thank you very much for the c0py you sent of 'Good Kind Lion.‘ This
little story would be excellent for use on my Kindergarten telecast.
If possible, I would also appreciate a few extra copies for reference.

Since Materials used on our programs need written clearance permission,
would you please advise me of your policy concerning television clearance.

Thank you for your assistance and cooperation.

Sincerely yours,

(Mrs .) Sandy Schindler
Studio Teacher
Kindergarten of the Air

/nlr

‘..
4' . I
if; f _F f) 1“ _ " ‘ , ' ‘me-«M
.a‘ " ' ,. '

‘7»

FLORIDA CENTRAL EAST COAST EDUCATIONAL TELEVISION, INC.

 




_...... E Det Subject: Kindn

3; y .
‘ {aw By Elizabeth Shelton
Washinston Post Staff Writer

“Ink spots" in Alaskan
snows started a Washington
area school teacher on the
way to a fervent cause that
may affect fourth graders
all over the United States.

When Mrs. Alva J. Reed
and her husband were resid-
ing in Alaska in the mid-
305, where he was sent by
the Interior Department,
she noted with chagrin, aft-
er each new snowfall, that
there were 11 or 13 'black
holes in the drifts surround-
ing the hogans of the Eski-
mos at Point Hope. These
\black points were the
breathing holes of the Eski-
mos’ chained huskies.

The sled dogs in teams of
five or six pairs plus a lead-
er, were kept outdoors in
all kinds of weather—from
50 below zero to mosquito-
ridden summer tempera-
tures —-— in the belief this
mould toughen them up.
When a dog flagged, the Es-
kimo 'bludgeoned him with
a snowshoe and got another
dog. Dogs were plentiful.

Today Mrs. Reed em-
braces what she terms the

, “Schweitzerian ethic. ” Based
on the philosophy of the

. late humanitarian, Dr. A1-

bert Schweitzer, this con-
cept'is based on respect and
reverence for all .livin-g
things.

SHE IS convinced that
children need to be taught
kindness to animals as a
regular part of the elemen~
tary school curriculum.

With special permission
from the principals of
Woodacres, Whittier Woods
’ and Bannockburn schools in
Montgomery County, she

did just this for six years 1

before resigning to write a
manual for other teachers.

Her manuscript “Devel
oping Humane Attitudes in
Children" is now in the
hands of publishers. It had
its origins in her first sight
of those “ink spots” in the
Alaskan snows.

“I am not a do- gooder,"
says Mrs. Reed. “And I
don’ t own any pets. I think
people who dress them up
and let them sit at the table
are nauseating.

“But,” she qualifies her

 

,n

 

 

Brooks

AUTHOR SHERRY REED

I O 0

a n s‘w e r, “a n i mals have
rights.” ~
To her this includes the
right to be spared pain, in-
cluding the pain of fear.

SHE 118 not oppose-d to
scientiﬁc laboratory - experi-
mentation, provided the
conditions are humane and
the an'irm als are not kept
alive to endure experiment
after experiment.

DURING her classes for
fourth, fifth and sixth grade

_. H‘ ”we..- ......._ w... ...W‘ w~~ --‘ -‘

a Schweitzerian ethic

ers, held Friday afternoons
during the last hour of
school, Sherry Reed advised

her pupils to “put yourself
“in the animal’s place.”

Some of the posters they
made illustrated this idea
with imagination and mercy.

Mrs. Reed is convinced
the fourth grade is the
place to start because young-

-er children have a natural

love of animals and are in-
doctrinated further by teach-
ing materials which are fre-

i

/” w‘é “Mw‘v‘sx, / VW'I

a ”’"t .E
ess to [— a

1 ments,

miéii/ OLL~i I'm/(’1’, Ii:
7 O 1

.S

quently about the animal
kingdom.

Later, curiosity or lack of
instruction in humane-ness.
or the experience of seeing
older‘ brothers and sisters
perform scientific experi-
changes their out-
look.

MRS. REED firmly 'be-
lieves that juvenile delin—'
quency would be deterred
by the teaching of kindness
to animals in the second
half of the elementary
grades.

Her experience with the
Montgomery school children
has prevcd to her that a
child’s outlook can change
from wanton cruelty to one
of concern «for lesser life.

On the larger subject-—
whether man’s cruelty to
animals leads him to acts of
inhumanity to his. fellow
man ——- Mrs. Reed includes
only the opinions of others
in her teachers’ manual. But
she plans to do a full~scale
book on this subject after
the manual is published.

GEORGE WASHINGTON

' University recently conduct-

ed a pilot study which gives
Mrs. Reed hope that her pet
subject may spread to every
fourth grade classroom in
America.

The study explored the
feasibility of introducing
humane education courses
into the elementary school
curriculum.

Not every ’eleme'ntary
school principal will agree
with Mrs. Reed that “ani-
mals are little people” or
that “fish, being vertebrates,
have feelings," but probably
most of them will have seen
recent studies of jail in-
mates showing that delin-
quent adults did not have
pets on which to lavish care
and concern as children.

 

 

 

 




BURNING TREE ELEMENTARY SCHOOL

Maryknoll Avenue and Beech Tree Road
Be’rhesda. Maryland

Ofﬁce of +he Principal Telephone: EM 5-0864

December 16, 1965

Mrs. George Stevens
lhll Buth Street, N;W.
'Washington, D.C.

Dear Mrs. Stevens

Thank you very much for the printed.materials.
‘we are delighted with them and are ordering copies for
our primary'grades of Yeu.and Your Cat and Kit+ens

 

and Cats a; for the upper mgrades First Aid and Care Of
Small Animals.

 

 

I am certainly imprew bed with the intelligent
and effective way the Societi 1es are go1ng about thelr
business. You are sure to meet with success.

Sincerelv yours,

/‘./ WW WW (/1/3/7 17/ 2: 23,6” L,

 




 

July 22, 1965

Miﬁm Linda 3,Twinikar
R52 Charlea Lana
W&ntagh,,ﬁawf¥ark

Eaar Linda:

Thank~ynu for ywur latter. I am sorry'that yuur ﬁcg chasas cars
and bicyclas.

Tha hast may ta stay a dag fram doing this is t0 have a friend go
by in a slowly maving car and either throw a pail of watar on tha
éog as it camas out ta chase the car Or use a water pistel for the
Same purpege; that is, watting tha dag. You may have ta do this
saveral timas if the dag has a bad caruchasing habit, The water
will not hurt tha ﬂag, but it will ha vary diseauraging ta her.

VAbaut house braaking, it is important that yen graise bar for using
tha yard instaad of tha hmuse. Hitting her is probably a bad way
6? trying to train bar sinca ynu say that she reacts badly. Speak
ta har firmly when aha doas semething wrong and tak$ hay outside
immﬁdiataly; Db not laave her in tha house so that aha cauld re~
paat it a3 yam gay she daes. instead, walk with her cutside and
be nice to bar Wham 3h$ is outﬁide. Samatimes much mora can ha
dame with dags in this way than by trying to ba savera with thaw.

I shauld add that tha raaaon a friand shculd thraw the water an
ha: is 39 that 3he does not fael that yum are ﬁning it to her.
It is imgortant that she shauld have camplate faith in yen, and
to devalap this yﬁu mu$t be vary kind to har. If this doas mat
wark, plaaaa write ua again.

Eagt wishes,
Sinceraly,

Frasiﬁent

 




Mr. JﬁiﬁS'Gu Lanﬂaay

Tailwagger ?ounﬂation 9f.America
QOlB‘Wilahire Baulavard
Beverlyiﬂilla, California

.Dear Mr. Lindsay:

I wag glad t0 read 0f the paaﬁage 9f tha law %0 raquire taachm
ing 6f humane educatian in the public achmala mf tha State 9f
Galifmrnia, anﬁ Ivam.encloaing a marked ligting of m&t@riala
available to teachars fram the A::; l Welfare Imﬁtitute.

It is gaad to know that you support 3. 1071 anﬂiﬂ. E. ﬁéﬁ? t0
requireihumane treatment of QXperimﬂntal animala, and I h&@&
that yaur organizatien.will take an aetive rolﬁ im.anacﬂmmnt
0f tnig badly nﬁedad legiﬁlation.nmw that yaurwork for the
humana @ducation bill is comyleteﬂ. If yam mega literature
an this frmm the ather 0rganization.with‘which.I gawk, the
Saciety far Animal Protective Legiﬁlatian, just let mg knmw.

Bast wiahas, and again, cangratulatiana on.y0ur suaceaa.

ainaaraly,

Pr¢sidan£

 

 

 




W t é ' *
LINDA S. INIKER
452 CHARLES LANE

_ WANTAGH, N. Y.
“ax/WV M ‘
' b

 

 

 

 




    
 
    

WWW \Nﬁw E \mm§»®\
x»:
i§§




EXECUTIVE OFFICES
TAILWAGGER FOUNDATION OF AMERICA
9015 WILSHIRE BOULEVARD
BEVERLY HILLS, CALIF.

4-27-65

Miss Christine Stevens,
Animal Welfare Inst.

22 East 17th. st.

New York 3, N.Y.

Dear Miss Stevens;
Thank you for your interest in our
Assembly Bill 1750.

We can use all the material and aid
offered by vour organization.

Yes, we do supnort the two measures
mentioned in your letter.

Sincerely.

Meme

.7 i
t I," a r; . H
1 [1: i \" Le +45 a... -~

 




ﬁﬁ

3

mi

Weﬁﬁﬁa

v.’

 




ﬁuguat 143 1-965

Rigs Virginia 3mm
lhlﬂ Pragrasa
Macaw Park, Eiehigan

Paw was Swim:

Thank: yam for your orﬂar (5f Auguat 3rd,. mam
€23? whim wag shippaﬂ w yam today.

73: regret that me camet azzpp'ly 57021 with two
of {am 1mm yam wanfmd - Smelty Goes ta Schwl
Oil Pallation of Sea and River Birds
Thea third 0% mi; includxad in the ahipment :13 Facts meat Fara,
far which {sham i5 3 charge of fifty cents. Thia back 213
pabliahed in Englanc‘i am is themfore net em cf oar mm minu-
1iwatimm ... hence the charga.

Sic-um ‘va Ty truly,

Male Schaepperh (ﬁrm)

 




ROMULUS TOWNSHEP SCHOOL DESTRECT
WILLIAM E. JAKAD, ROMULUS. MECHTGAN THOMAS JANACK, Director of
A“"5”‘°°”"'°"de"' ROBERT L. McCONEGHY, Superintendent WWW“ ”d 0pm”

August 3, 1965
Animal Welfare Institute
22 East 17th Street
New York 3, New York

Dear Sirs, .
I am an elementary teacner and a1 interested in the

which you have available for school use. I am i cerested
.{11aoe Bi clog , 11ojeccs
Gary s T ”id. -111_3-1’1
10u and Your Dog
Kittens and Cats
Cruelty Goes to School
The Abuse of An Lma 11s in the Class Room
The Importance of Humane Biology Tea aching
Facts About Furs \jiﬁq/
-« Oil Pollution of Sea and River Birds
I am also interested in any other material which you mi” t have

«v summer ”dJr ss as the school bu lﬂ1ns

is
W}

la 2» I am.enclosins
is closed for the an *mer ro tos.

I am thanking you 1n advance.

incerely,

L; ,1 /\
Viriiria Sm1th
1rogress

ncoln Park, Michigan

BOARD OF EDUCATION

DAVIS B. DRAPER, President JASON P. LOVETTE, Vice President KATHERYN P. SEESTEDT, Secretary MARY J. WEBERLEIN, Treasurer
ARTHUR H. DITTMAR, SR., Trustee HENRY F. DeYOUNG, Trustee HERBERT F. SHAlN, Trustee

 




NATIONAL HEADQUARTERS

0/ 75/29 (Mniied Cjiates 0/ drivel/[ca 830 mm AVENUE

NEW YORK, NEW YORK 10022
PLAZA 1-6900

AREA CODE 212

August 16, 1965

Miss Christine Stevens
?resident

Animal‘welfere Institute
22 East 17th Street

New York 3, New York

Deer Miss Stevens:

Thank you so mesh for your good letter regarding the Animal Care Aide
manuscript.

Your suggestions and recommendetions for resources are extremely valuable.
I shall delete those which are not in the best interest of the aims of the
project and fundamentally the Sixth Girl Scout Law.

When the Service Aide Project material comes off the press, I shall be
happy to send you a copye 'When this will be, is hard to predict at this time.

With sincere appreciation for your support and help,

Sincerely,

CW C E {We

Gwendolyn C. Elsemore
Program Specialist
Program.Depertment

FOUNDED MARCH 12. 1912

CHARTERED BY CONGRESS MARCH 16, 1950

 




March 11, 1961
129 Guy Park Avenue,
Amsterdam, New York.
Dear Miss Draper,

For the past six years I have been arranging and
providing for the membership of Mrs. Powell in the AWI—-
although she never has made any comment of approval or .
disapproval. She may have thought the Informationlteports
were just another of the items teachers were always being
bombarded with. However that may be, the outcome-~so far—«
has not been what I had hOped for.

Nor has Mrs. Powell‘s situation in the school system
worked out as she had expected, either! When a new superintendent
took over—~a man much more sympathetic toward the teaching of
humaneness than his predecessor ever was-—Mrs. Powell
broached the subject of breaking in a young man who could help
her with.her present overload and who would be able to enlist
his own assistant when the time came for her to retire. So
far as I know, nothing has been worked out. The subject
seems to be the kind which is always being pushed aside for
something else.

I do almost no reading now—«too hard on my eyes--
but I do want to retain membership in the Institute. So, I
decided to remain on the books of the Institute and at least

to scan the Information Reports, marking whatever I believed

Mrs. Powell would be interested in seeing, and sending the

Reports along to her as they came in.
With very best wishes, I remain

Sincerely yo /s,/4

, ». a; {:5 7
if: — 112/] z! [I I '
Mm A ,, L med .x

 




:CALIFORNIA LEGISLATURE—1965 REGULAR (GENERAL) SESSION

ASSEMBLY BILL No. 1750

 

 

Introduced by Assemblyman Elliott

March 11, 1965

.—_.—_———

REFERRED TO COMMITTEE ON EDUCATION

 

 

An act to amend Section 7851 of the Education Code,
relating to morality training.

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

SECTION 1. Section 7851 of the Education Code is amended
to read:

7851. Each teacher shall endeavor to impress upon the
minds of the pupils the principles of morality, truth, justice,
patriotism, and a true comprehension of the rights, duties,
and dignity of American citizenship, including kindness to-
ward domestic pets and the humane treatment of living crea-
tures, to teach them to avoid idleness, profanity, and falsehood,
and to instruct them in manners and morals and the principles
of a free. government.

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
0

1

LEGISLATIVE COUNSEL’S DIGEST
AB 1750, as introduced, Elliott (Ed). Schools: morality training.

Amends: Sec. 7851, EdC.

Adds requirement that teachers in addition to other moral training shall teach
pupils about kindness toward domestic pets and the humane treatment of living
creatures.

Kindly address your communication
asking for a "DO PASS" vote to

0

CALIFORNIA ASSEMBLY COMMITTEE ON EDUCATION
Hon. Charles B. Garrigus, Chairman,
State Capitol, Sacramento, Cal.

 

Note; Time is of the essence as the hearing on
this Bill is scheduled for May 10, 1965 at 3:h5
PeM. in Room 4202, State Capitol, Sacramento, Cal.

 




Here is the complete complement of
Assemblyman making up the Committee
on Education.

Assemblyman Leroy F. Greene

7'

Y?

Y!

H

W

Pearce Young

Robt. T. Monagan
George W. Milias
Alfred E Alquist
Leo J. Ryan

Jack T. Casey
Gordon H Winton Jr
Charles B Garrigus
W. A. Shoemaker
Edward E. Elliott

H. I. Flournoy

Merv. M. Dymally

John L E Collier
Joe A. Gonsalves
Jas. E. Whetmore
Stewart Hinckly
Victor V. Veysey

E. Richard Barnes

Sacramento
Napa

Stockton
Gilroy

San Jose

San Francisco
Bakersfield
ierced

Fresno

Santa Barbara
Pasadena
Claremont

Los Angeles
Pasadena
Norwalk
Garden Grove
Redlands
Brawley

San Diego

 




TAILWAGGER FOUNDATION OF AMERICA
9OI5 Wilshire Boulevard
Beverly Hills, Calif.

MISS BILLIE BURKE _= _ ’j JAMES G.LINDSAY
President FOUNDED ‘ ) Executive Secretary

April 20, 1965

To Our Wonderful Family
of Members and Friends:

CALIFORNIA ASSEMBLY BILL 1750

 

.. THIS‘ .12 AN IMPORTANT BULLETIN -

Greetings:

After long and comprehensive study, the Legislative Committee of Tailwagger
Foundation has authored and presents t0 you California Assembly Bill #1750, a copy of
which is enclosed for your perusal. Please read this carefully. This Bill comes up for
hearing on May 10, 1965.

This measure requests our California Assembly Committee on Education to include in our
public school curriculum (elementary grades) the teaching of kindness toward domestic
pets and the humane treatment of all living creatures. This is the legislation we Spoke of
in our bulletin to you of July 1, 1964. Its adoption can well change the humane attitude of
our future generations. The Bill is non—controversial, does not require textbooks and
therefore does not pose any questions on budget revisions.

CIVIL RIGHTS FOR MEN -- HUMANE RIGHTS FOR ANIMALS

 

 

Much has been said about the rights of men and much new legislation has been enacted to
secure such rights. That is as it should be. Unfortunately, while much has been said
about the rights of animals little has been done to affect such rights. A. B. 1750 is
aimed at correcting this situation. A. B. 1750 is not only designed to protect animals
BUT will protect children as well.

The enormous pet population in California is staggering. According to the published
reports of Los Angeles City Department of Animal Regulation, Los Angeles houses in
excess of 250, 000 dogs PLUS 250, 000 cats! The total population for all pets in the City
exceeds TWO MILLION FIVE HUNDRED THOUSAND or about one pet for every man,
woman and child in the city. This proportion of pets to people maintains throughout the
State.

The record also shows that the Los Angeles Department of Animal Regulation during the
fiscal year 1 963-64 investigated an astounding total of 49, 430 cases of animal bites. A
very large percentage of these bites were inflicted on children and were attributed to the
lack of teaching children on proper approach and handling of animals. Untold numbers
of bitten children were forced to undergo painful Pasteur treatments for immunization
against the dread disease hydrophobia. Some 20, 000 biting animals were placed under
fourteen-day quarantine in conformance with State law. In our studied Opinion many of
these bites would have been averted through proper teaching in elementary grades. The
costs were very high in PAIN as well as in dollars.

- more over -

 




Those of us who have ever had the great experience of a dog's affection will undoubtedly
admitthat such exPerience had much to do with our present attitude of humaneness
toward animals. This wonderful expression of love from a fellow creature did make
solid and lasting impressions on our youthful minds, and had much to do with teaching
us the values of love and compassion in our every day life. This great and valued
philosoPhy which we have thus acquired is NOT for the privileged few. It is the right
of all men, women and children to share, and can be made readily available through
pr0per education. We will always have pets and we should learn to live with them.

A. B. 1750 has broad ideological purpose. It is a plea for compassion and should have
the full support of all men and women concerned with the kind of record our civilization
is making for helpless, speechless, voteless animals who can form no pressure group

or lobby of their own, but must rely entirely on the compassion of those who speak out

and vote in their behalf.

We at Tailwaggers have conferred with Los Angeles City Officials on the merit of A. B.
1750. The Los Angeles Department of Animal Regulation has given us their unanimous
approval of the measure AND has instructed the Legislative representatives of the City
to support the measure in Sacramento. That Department has also offered their complete
facilities to teachers in our schools. We have addressed our President, Lydon B.
Johnson, a former teacher, and hope for his favorable exPression. We have contacted
the County Supervisors, Boy Scouts, Los Angeles Children's Zoo officials, Los Angeles
Health Department and the Los Angeles City schools asking each and every one for
support. In fact, we are going ALL OUT for passage of this Bill.

NOW THE BAD NEWS ON THIS MEASURE

Assemblyman Edward E. Elliott, representing the Pasadena-San Marino district in the
Legislature, speaking as a member of the important Assembly Educational Committee,
which body will hear our petition, has written our office to say that ”LIKE LIHOOD OF
APPROVAL OF THE PROPOSAL IS VERY REMOTE ! " Mr. Elliott doesn't seem to think
that our Tailwagger membership can supply the necessary support to swing the "YES‘l
vote in the hearings. Apparently he is accustomed to voters' apathy in matters on legis—
lation and it is up to us to ring the bell clearly and let him and others know that we mean
business. The Los Angeles Herald-Examiner has volunteered to help us do just that.

From the foregoing you can see that we face a fight and it is up to us to muster all
strength if we are to win. We urge all members and friends of animals to write to the
Committee on Education and DEMAND a ”Do Pass” vote on this measure. Every voter
should remember that these Assemblymen are our PAID representatives in Sacramento.
They are there to do the will of the pe0ple and it is up to each of us to tell them what we
will. Do not be afraid to Speak up and be heard. Apathy has no place at this time.

On the reverse side of A. B. 1750 you will find the names of the Committeemen. You
may write to one or all of them, or simply to the Committee in whole as shown, BUT
PLEASE WRITE OR WIRE YOUR SENTIMENTS.

d fin ’ we can “SimfinQn-Wthisctastﬁ"”fight;.iMA prepaid envelope is
enclosed for YOUT""Contribu 1013:

Sincerely,

James G. Lindsay, Founder-Secretary

 




 

    

 

rs . mp

animal Chan

EDA/Till

3

 

C;

 

 

 

 
 

 

VOL. II NO. 1 4038 SUNSET BLVD. YOUNGSTOWN, OHIO JANUARY 1965

 

 

ACL ESTABLISHES JUNIOR DIVISION...

The first meeting of the Animal Charity League, Junior Division, was held. on January 14 - a
particularly appropriate date since January 14 was also the 90th birthday of Albert Schweitzer,
philosopher and theologian who advances the "reverence for life" ethic. In the future, the ACL
Junior Division will meet at the Junior Achievement Center, 2615 Market Street, Youngstown,

as announced. The Junior Division is under the supervision of Emma (Mrs. John L. ) Wilson.
Mr. and Mrs. Wilson, both members of ACL, have had wide experience in youth organizations.
Mr. Wilson has served as Boy Scout Leader, Neighborhood Commissioner and has advised for
Explorers Club. Mrs. Wilson, a Director of ACL, has worked for several years with the Girl
Scouts of America and is deeply interested in the welfare and. training of young people.

 

The object of the Junior Division is to teach kindness. Their pledge: "I will make kindness

to all living things my way of life. I will speak out against cruelty and always defend the
helpless. " The ACL Junior Division is modeled on the Kindness Club, organizedby Mrs. Hugh
John Flemming of Canada. "We would. like to bring together," Mrs. Wilson stated, "those chil—
dren who believe in kindness to all living things - to work as a force of love and gentleness in .

a world where kindness is so sadly needed. Kindness to animals can not be isolated from kindness
to people. " Mrs. Wilson continued, "A child who grows upvbeing gentle to all,that can not fight
back will make a better world for both people and animals to live in. " All young people who are
interested, and'adults who would be willing to serve as advisors, are urged to contact Mrs.

Wilson, SK-83572.

A WARNING FROM ACL. ..

In Youngstown, there are those who advertise that they pick up free dogs and cats. The animals
are then housed by these people in the worst kind. of squalor and sold. Caution your friends and
neighbors! Under no conditions give an animal to anyone until you have: (1.) seen the home it
is going into, (2.) talked with husband and wife (in the case of a family) to be sure that they both
want the animal, (3.) reached an agreement that you may visit the animal to check on its welfare
and take it back if you are not satisfied. Don't think that you are doing a humane act by giving
an animal to the first person who will take it off your hands. Such an attitude is merely in-
humanity masquerading under the mask of sentimentality.

 

RODEOS CAUSE SUFFERING, SUFFERING IS NOT ENTERTAINMENT...

So read the caption of the publicity sponsored by HSUS and NCSAW in three Baltimore papers,
with a circulation of 1,857,596. "Suffering, cruelty and violence are basic to rodeos," the

ad. continued. "Bucking horses and bulls are made to contort wildly by the pressure of a strap
pulled to extreme tightness over sensitive parts of the body before they leave the shute.
Electric prods are applied on highly sensitive parts of the animals' bodies to make them appear

 

wild. Tails are twisted. Ears are bitten. Small, frightened calves are violently thrown to
the ground and tied by the legs. Steers are grasped by the horns, their heads twisted painfully,
and forced to the ground. Injuries are common.’ Fear is ever—present. Pain is inevitable.

Rodeos can not be regulated or made acceptable. They are exhibitions of cruelty and suffering. "
As a result of the publicity of these two organizations the city of Baltimore has banned the use
of bucking straps. ACL recently protested by telegram the inclusion of a rodeo as part of the

activities of the Ohio State Fair.

WATCH THE BOARDMAN NEWS...
The Boardman News is now printing the column, Animal Talk, by A.C.Lion. The A.C.Lion

column is a weekIy one, written by the staff of ACL and treats of all subjects pertaining to
animals.In case you haven't guessed it, the charming lion on the masthead of this Cardogram
is A.C. - the official mascot and symbol of ACL. Our gratitude to Al Parella for its creation.

 

  




IN DEFENSE OF ANIMALS...

On November 11, 1964, the Rev. Charles Herrick, Director of the Humane Society of the United
States and minister of the First Congregational Churches of Derby, Connecticut, appeared in
Youngstown under the sponsorship of ACL, speaking in favor of protection for animals used. in
laboratories. Rev. Herrick appeared on WFM] Coffee An' show, Mitch Stanley's Page 21

and. on WBBW Special Feature. On November 10,

Contact, 1-1/2 hour show that was devoted to the problem of the abuse of animals in laboratories.

 

General Counsel for ACL.

LABORATORY ANIMALS. . .

In August Rep. Paul G. Rogers of Florida introduced into the last Congress the Rogers Bill,
for the humane treatment of laboratory animals. Language of this bill provided that the
Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare should select a lB—member Advisory Committee
composed of: 1. Three members from the veterinary and veterinary research field; 2. Three
members from the medical and medical research field; 3. Three members from the organized.
humane movement; 4. Three members from the general public; and 5. A chairman who shall
be an officer oremployee of the Department of Health, Education and Welfare. The Advisory
Committee, a powerless body, may only recommend to the Secretary relative to standards,
rules and regulations it believes necessafff‘T'hue—Department of Health, Education, and Welfare,
itself one of the nation's largest users of laboratory animals, has been notable for failure

to police itself in the past. This Rogers Bill would have operated only to assure the public
that animals are protected from cruelty - but could not protect animals. Write to Paul G.
Rogers, House Office Bldg., Washington, D.C., asking him not to re—introduce his bill into
the new Congress because it is too weak a bill to protect ani—rﬁals. Write your Senators and
Representatives, asking them to introduce and support strong legislation comparable to the
Randall-Pepper Bills of the last Congress.

 

IF YOU. HAVE RUMMAGE, call Jean Nuezca, RI-74568 before February 15. IF YOU HAVE TRADING
STAMPS, send them to us. We are saving them to buy a pet identification—maker.

 

HUMANITARIAN BY-LINES... .

Many egg producers are caging their hens as a progressive and efficient means of egg production.
These hens live their entire lives in very small cages, standing on wire. The eggs so produced
are called battery eggs. ACL considers this method most inhumane and recommends that all
humane individuals join in protest against it!

 

From Patrick Parkes at HSUS - "We at HSUS have often received inquiries about a humane method.
for killing edible crustaceans. Professor Anser of Norway has described a practical and humane
method which might prove of value to humanitarians. Professor Anser found that live lobsters
can be rendered completely unconscious simply by submerging them in cold water which has been
saturated with salt. This saturation point is obtained by continuing to pour salt into the water
stirring it until crystals can no longer dissolve and form at the bottom of the vessel. For this
solution it takes approximately one-half pound of table salt per quart of water. A two-quart
vessel would contain the average lobster, and this same solution can be used for any number of
the creatures desired."

Rabbits are used in the testing of hair dyes. Rabbits are placed in stocks and hair dyes are
put into their eyes. In addition to often being painfully blinded,these rabbits go into shock
because of fear.

 

Your contribution to ACL can: HELP wage the battle against the abuse of laboratory animals,
HELP support a full-scale Junior program, HELP fight the cruelties of rodeos and bull fights,
HELP sell the neutering and spaying of animals, HELP distribute humane educational literature,
HELP teach reverence for life as a way of life.‘

I want to have a part in the campaign to prevent cruelty to animals. Enclosed is
($3.00 regular, $5.00 husband and wife, $25. 00 Sustaining, $100.00 Life) for use in the work of
ACL. (Gifts and bequests to ACL are tax deductible.)

Name Address

 

 

 

 

/"" -'\_
1

(5/1}; (/2/27‘ ‘4- ,/ x/g/g (”p/5:4,, 1% Vi 2:1 1:
27?? ((Mr M MT"?
7 / 2

 




 

 

 

éuguﬁt 3, i?65

Mrﬂﬁ Ra Gar E;@$k$
wamtmhamtwr Shara Humana Sgeiaty, Inca
7 ﬁarﬁisam.&vanu®

Harrigan; Kaw'Yark

333a? 3123*“; {magmas

Thaﬁk$ for yam? kind latter 9f July 28th. $9 wnuld'be happy ta
provida gnu with tha “Emu and Ybur ﬂag” and “Kittens and ﬂats“
laaflats at augt ar ta giva gnu parmissimn ta hava tham repraw
@ucaﬁ, whichavar gnu prafer. wa avg dalightad ﬁbat yea want in
have tkam usad in the gublic schaalg in ymur area, and I baliava
the ahilﬁreﬁ will anjay tham.

Since yau are in charga of humane eﬁucatian for tha'wggtehester
Share ﬁumane Saciaty, yen may alga he intare3tad in othar mataw
riala for taachara and puails which ara ligtad mm tha anclcsad

ghawt. ‘Qe‘ll be glad to sand.§su a Samplg a? any yam think you
mauld like to age,

With kind ragards,

Sincerely,

Presidant

Cﬁzla

Enalagure

 

 

 

 




January 27, 1965

Mr. Raymond E. Barratt

Diractar or Eduaatian

Qragmn ﬁuaaum of Scienae and Induatny
b?015 Ethic CanyOn Rd.

$0rtlanﬂ 1, ﬁre.

Saar Mr. Barratt,

Thank yen for ynur inquiry of Bacamher 10th.
0n raceipt of'ycur lattar an crdar leaflat far
“Humane Biclagy Projectﬁﬁ mag gent yam. Ea will
b& ha3py t0 gupply yum with caﬁiag a? the mammal.
Qur ugual malicy'aa maﬁad in the arder form is ts
send a free avg? to each taachar wha requegts One
and to $911 others at coat. Humaver, wm giva
special congideratisn t0 gituaiiona aueh as ynurg,
and if you can let us know how many you require
and what yum are abla t0 aontribmﬁa tamard meeting
the wrinterg' hillg at tﬁiﬁ and, m@ will ha glgd
ta mark withgou ta the bagt of an? abilityu

Yam? intareﬁt 13 ag¢r3ciat&&.

ﬁincarslya

Chrigtina Stewans
$residant

 




EmmﬁOImmHmm MIC—am IC_<_>ZM WOO—Md.<.

.N I>m~m2m02 ><MZC m

:w. ._.. 300mm<mr4 >Eumz I>mm_m02. Zm<< <Omx U_mmn._.0mm
1mmm.0m24

 

2:». ._.. mOOmm<mr4 >rrmz
4mzz<moz m-wmwm 2:». I>ww< L. WOQ>N4
2.3m. roe—m m. nmcmn:
2:». .512 <. u>r<
2mm. >. .u. Um>noz
:m. m>zEmr m. :mmmm...
33m. ”U—N—ﬂmﬂm W. ZMQWON zmm. Surf—>3 L. IOWﬁg>zz
mmommga zmm. Emmmm m. SmmmON
:3. FNFPZU gozmom
<m4mm_z>m_>2m :mm. 5550 zozmomu
zmm. nammwz r. mmmEzm
Um. z>cﬂnm mmmtzm
:zm. m0r>zu >. r. damn
Um. <<>r._.mm m. zzrrmm
:mm. m. o. Emmxm
zxm. Lozz z>mmx

2:». I>wm~< .._. WOQVLNJ.
2:». L012 <. U>r<
V<_Om ﬁﬂﬂW—UMZﬂm
33m. LOMNTI F. mmeZI—nm
Hzm>mcmmm

 

5W \Nmmx

, 1...: x» .\ \\.lt .._ .,
..\ R\\\\ §k§§ ,\ \
.21 ‘ -k: x xx

. I. \I‘IIIII..-

I’ll 1‘11 ‘{‘V|l ‘ !

Ili‘l‘}.l\\i§

“Vaxxﬁ NW

 




 

 

%’ d
g, é.“

:17

 

 

 




\ .‘_
. - H
.r/ ; : .
l i ' l ' \ l' ,
g ‘ ._ I,_
II x x 'Q'.,:,.'--' _
[ Jxr , v , ,3 '_ . ,
‘ ‘ X ‘:.
tawnmm L ,, ’/z£%27197%5/ 65(497755’
,-

SEIENEEW‘ INDUSTRY

4015 S. W. Canyon Rd., Portland 1, Oregon CA 6-4518

J.C. STEVENS, President Emeritus

December 30, 1964

i}
t
c 5:; .

fhe Animal Welfare Institute
22 East 17th St. ‘
New York 3, N. Y.

Dear Sir: j,
Ihe booklet HUMANE BIOLOGY PROJECBS, which your organization pub-
lished in 1960: has~been brought to our attention.

Since we sponsor the Science Fair program in the Northwest and
are advisor to hundreds of'young scientists and investigators, we are
very much interested in this booklet. We have constant requests for
suggestions and procedures and find this material very useful.

we would like to ask if'it is possible to get a number of'copies
of this booklet for use by our student participants. .Lf there is a
charge, what would it be?

lf’gour publication is no longer in print, would it be permiss-
ible for us to extract some of the material for use in our own pam-
phlets which we send to schools, teachers, and students.

we would appreciate an early answer, since this is the time of
year when most projects get under way.

Yours /sincerelg,

(“Md”) : garage/a
Rd;;Z:; E. Barrett

Director of Education

oregon

 

museum \‘ '

 

 

 

of science ant industry

 

A non-profit, educational organization dedicated to the advancement of science and industry through the youth of the region.

 




Fabruaay 16, 1865

Br. C..Adele Brawn

Director cf Schael Eaalth Sarvicaw
leﬁ E. 6th St.

OSWQgU, Ea YD

Dear at. Brawn;

'WQ hava r$eaived yuur latter cf Fabruary iathﬁ

againg as tha pricaﬁof an? bmakletg'ﬁFirSt_£id

anﬁ Sara 0f Small.imimals.” Ha gall it at cmwt
which is 35¢ war eoﬁy.

Ea will ha glad ta reeaiva your ardar.

Laaking farward ta hearing from yang I am

Yours sinearaly,

ﬁlexandra Peachka
Exacutiva ﬁaeretary

 




FORM H-Ia

C. ADELE BROWN. M. D.

DIRECTOR OF SCHOOL HEALTH SERVIOEs

OSWEGO. N. Y.

_
HOME ADDRESS
105 EAST SIXTH STREET

OSWEGO, N. Y.

 




THE SPRINGFIEED UNIO

SPRINGFIELD, MASS.
’? ,_ 83193

 

 

 




God bless the little things
this Christmastide

All the little wild things
that live outside

Little cold robins and rabbits
in the snow

Give them good faring and
a warm place to go

And the little young things
for Whose sake He died

All the little young things
at Christmastide

——M111g1zret M11114 y

gr if .g:7 {(A

5311;?

[khaki V 5 (“ﬂy/1f

141 :1“ 1141112§711f1 Z 51511111

::£ /¢{MM‘) é! MJ/C if 19/

11,5/ him ”111111115111 «£53117 5:556! {15111111 Kai/11%!

5211 M5 11.5 1‘11 2:11: 2:111 11 ”W11 1’11 .
551/1 1011111111 /l/ :3 ,5?

DW/ 01151111111115,“ 115511121: 5,5 11 5,155,151,511 11’ 7711/.

i
l
1
l
l

l
l
‘ l
l

1’11 1111111 1511/ ‘

; ; 1511; .ﬂ/W/M 11211

4%,; 12ml? WWW/13

‘1
r ,, 17 = (1—. ’
@3115 ,1” . 1111‘. 71$ 17111. ,

1/ng

«4’ WM?” MP7 2 174W? W121
ﬁlm A V

«1555 WWW” Hf; W511 751: ¢W1€17

{71/5614 1121/] 1" W55 13117711514755,
331115151115
@113 Eng of
@he ﬁnlihag

gnu

ﬁemznn

#1444116th

“/1

i i : 1/ 7 1» 5
121,151, 111 1151 1/35 11:62)" 1.1414 12» 7741154445515

4,11% 5 “/27 1175
" 11/1’3/1247113

{/7 k :5
2-1
”x”

, " '..‘_-
1:. .1 541
, ,. 1.“ «,7.
I I, , 1' ‘,
“'V-r, .,
y 4, r
If 1. 5.
i /
r /

,lvw‘ muv‘l ”/3 7/‘5‘16:

 




L’Lw/M LJLU/C

 

1C [£4 jm __
ﬂag M, 2,0 Mr 74%

sz/zd [ijy 3161/773

(«6 We; Sat/{f 9 (J / /
7667174, Lei/u, 57-7 WW4- MM

557/476 4 M” 74¢ Gig/acéﬂfﬁl
6/) /3¢/V7/ [LJ 944/7,» 0 547777644 LW

(47 54:0/ 9 jc;é;"' ~
(Lg 4/ (,éj/U: (ZC7//7 / ‘

 




p. &
ESTABLISHED

1934

Zﬁhntaturs (311mm: of

ﬁne L.ill'ﬂaterials

EDITED BY

-.JOHN GUY FOWLKES. PH. 0.
AND
PAUL T. CODY, M. A.

'33
ﬁbuwtnrn (Emilie IEO
ghee gﬁilms
EDIT-ED BY
MARY F. HORKHEIMER

AND
JOHN _W. DIFFOR, M. A.

'3’
ﬁbucaturn Oﬁuihe (En
ghee gﬁilmatrips
EDITED BY
MARY F. HORKHEIMER

AND
JOHN W. DIFFOR. M. A

“33’
ﬁhutatnru (Emilie to 39,322
map», ﬁst-int:
nub Wransrriptiona
EDITED BY
WALTER A. WITTICH. PH. 0.

AND
GERTIE HANSON HALSTED. M. A.

'33
ﬁlementarg Weathers (gain: to

$13-22 QIurricqum ﬂaterials
Revised each August
E D I T E D B Y

PATRICIA
HORKHEIMER SUTTLES. M. B. A.

ﬁbututnrs @uihe to gifts:
ﬁcimce Cﬂ‘laterials
EDITED BY
MARV HORKHEIMER SATERSTROM

AND
JOHN W. RENNER, PH. 0

'33
ﬁhutatorﬁ (Elxihc in ﬁrst
ﬁotial ﬁtuhies ﬂaterials

EDITED BY

PATRICIA
HORKHEIMER SUTTLES. M. B. A,
AND
WILLIAM H. HARTLEY. ED. D.

aﬁhuratnrs Qﬁuihe to gifts:
(Euihante ,iiﬂaterials
EDITED 8V
MARV HORKHEIMER SATERSTROM

AND
GAIL F FARWELL. ED. 0.

(33
ﬁhucatnrs (Questinn ﬁnch
Oﬁcia/ Elementary

Examination Questions
EDITED BY
MARY F HORKHEIMER
AND
A. P. HORKHEIMER, PH. 3.

‘8

ﬁhntaturs CAuhiu—I‘ismxl
Caxtrnunting ﬁgstcm

EDITED BY
WALTER A WITTICH PH. D

A. P. HORKHEIMER
PUBLISHER

Reply to;

Patricia Horkheimer Suttles
6445 Avenida Wilfredo

La Jolla, California

gﬁhutatnrs $1115er ﬁends}:

RANDOLPH, WISCONSIN 53956

February 3, 1965

Animal Welfare Institute
22 East 17th Street
New York, New York 10003

Gentlemen:

The ELEMENTARY TEACHERS GUIDE TO FREE CURRICULUM MATERIALS
is a bound book containing listings of booklets, pamphlets, maps,
charts, posters, books, exhibits, which various firms and agencies
are willing to furnish schools without charge upon request of a
school's official administrative or instructional staff.

This ELEMENTARY TEACHERS GUIDE TO FREE CURRICULUM MATERIALS
covers the elementary level only, but it does include a section
on "Teacher Reference and Professional Growth Materials.” This
section is revised annually to include new materials and to
delete listings of items no longer available.

We are now preparing a new edition of this service and
would appreciate your sending us, for listing in the publication,
any free materials you issue which you think would be serviceable
in enriching the school curriculum. No charge or obligation is
placed on the issuing agency other than furnishing, with reason-
able promptness, the materials requested during the next school
year. Your wishes relative to any limitations or instructions
will be included in the listing. The issuing agencies retain
control of the distribution of the materials.

We are enclosing a questionnaire which we would appreciate
your filling out and returning to us as soon as possible.

Thank you for your cooperation.
Sincerely yours,
0.33;... Am...“ sums

PHS:lw Patricia Horkheimer Suttles

Enc.

PCS.

When replying, please reply to editor at her home address:
6445 Avenida Wilfredo, La Jolla, California

 




THE W .
LINK BETWEEN
INDUSTRY w
AND ~ _
EDUCATION '  

 

A Message from the ‘ . .
NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR
INDUSTRY-EDUCATION COOPERATION

 




What’s the problem?

Many schools and colleges throughout America
recognize their need for outside help in enriching
educational programs and keeping them up to
date. Therefore, more and more educators are
turning to industry for assistance. Vitally inter-
ested in the youth of the Nation, modern industry
welcomes this trend; it is in a unique position to
furnish assistance. Industry, working with edu-
cators, can translate its experience and its knowl-
edge into materials and activities that bridge gaps
between classroom or laboratory instruction and
the latest application of principles; it can supple-
ment textbooks; it can help keep curricula in tune
with the times.

What’s the answer?
After World War II, a few educators and industry

people were called together by the National.

Science Teachers Association to discuss common
interests and to determine how industry and edu-
cation could aid each other most effectively.
NSTA, a department of the National Education
Association, supplied industry with guidelines on
how to work with teachers to make instructional
materials most effective. That was the start of
the Business-Industry Section of NSTA.

Since then, teachers of the social studies and
other subject areas such as languages, communica-
tions, arts, ﬁne arts, the humanities, health, home
economics and physical education, as well as
guidance and counseling personnel, have ex-
pressed an ever-growing need for materials and
services that industry can supply. Furthermore,
industry has other avenues through which to co—
operate with public, paroChial, and private schools
and colleges. In the fall of 1964, the B-1 Section
therefore changed its name to the National As-
sociation for Industry—Education Cooperation in
order to reﬂect its wider scope and its broader
membership. The organization’s close relationship
with NSTA continues. As in the past, NSTA

2

maintains the organization’s membership roll and
is the repository of its funds.

What does NAIEC do?

In many ways, NAIEC provides information for
both industry and education on education’s needs,
ideas and resources. Supplying such materials and
services that meet curriculum standards and serve
the needs of the business community is an ever-
changing ﬁeld of endeavor. Business and industry
must be responsive to the swiftly altering needs of
schools and colleges. NAIEC members have be-
come the recognized leaders in responding to this
challenge.

This prestige has been achieved through sharing
in these dividends from membership:

0 A newsletter describing developments in educa-
tion and new and proven ideas in the education
cooperation ﬁeld

0 Guidelines on the preparation of materials that
will conform to high educational standards

0 A quarterly packet exchange of materials en-
abling members to see what others are providing
to schools and libraries

0 Periodic meetings of members and educators to
discuss mutual problems and their solutions

0 Meetings to chart progress and set goals, as well
as to meet teachers who use the materials

0 Close liaison with organizations such as the
American Association of School Administra-
tors; the Department of Audiovisual Instruc-
tion, NEA; the National Council of the Social
Studies, NEA; the Public Relations Society of
America, to promote mutual interests

0 Membership in NSTA, entitling members to
subscriptions to The Science Teacher and
Science and Children, as well as to NSTA’s
quarterly packet service of approved teaching
aids, pamphlets and brochures; and the NAIEC
Newsletter.

 




 

Who belongs?

Many NAIEC members are the education direc—
tors of their companies or their industrial or trade
associations. Many are the representatives of non-
proﬁt voluntary organizations concerned with
assisting education. Still others are educators or
laymen who simply desire to keep abreast of in-
dustry—education cooperation. Close to 400 of the
country’s leading companies and trade associations
are represented among the members.

What do they do?

Members’ educational programs are as varied as
their types of business or industry. One member
may explain how his company’s product is pro-
duced and marketed — a signiﬁcant contribution
to one or more aspects of a curriculum. Another
may concentrate on aids designed for use in spe-
ciﬁc courses such as economics or chemistry. Still
another may wish to know how to improve a
career preparation or recruitment activity or to
broaden the base of his company’s scholarship
program.

How does this help you?

Most NAIEC members have long been engaged
in educational cooperation programs. They are
experienced in the best ways of working with edu-
cators to improve and update the curriculum. A
major goal of NAIEC members is to share this
fund of experience gained by producing effective
and acceptable education programs.

Members not only beneﬁt from hearing from
each other at meetings but also beneﬁt from the
packet service through which they can actually
see what other members develop.

Educators have found NAIEC a channel of
communication to transmit their curriculum needs.
Good ideas for new company programs are often
born in this way.

What if there’s no local chapter?

Local NAIEC organizations exist presently in
New York City, Washington, D. C., and San
Francisco. Others are being established in centers
of concentrated interest.

A major beneﬁt of local chapters is more fre-
quent, face — to - face communication regarding
problems and their solutions.

If you would like to establish a local chapter, we
suggest these steps:

First, write to NAIEC for names of members in
your city.

Second, meet informally with them to discuss
the beneﬁts of a local chapter.

Third, if possible, attend a local meeting in New
York City, Washington, D. C., or San Francisco.
Meeting times and places are available on request.

Fourth, write NAIEC for suggestions on how to
form the chapter and how to get your charter.

However, even without a local chapter, NAIEC
membership provides you with the way to keep in
touch with people engaged in work similar to
your own.

What do you get out of it?

Membership in NAIEC does many things for its
members and their companies:

0 In the rapidly changing educational picture, you
are kept more up-to-date on curriculum inno-
vations and experiments

0 The packet exchange provides materials for
your study and for showing to your manage-
ment as examples of what other organizations
are doing

0 The Newsletter brings you new ideas and new
insights in the ﬁeld of industry-education co-
operation

0 Meetings and conventions offer you the oppor-
tunity to discuss with educators and other
NAIEC members day-to—day problems and
their solutions




What does it cost?
Individual membership in NAIEC is $15.

Institutional membership, permitting three in—
dividuals from your company to belong, are avail-
able for $50; additional personnel under same
membership, $10 each.

What do you do next?

Become a member of NAIEC so that we can help
each other and, at the same time, help to improve
the quality of education itself. Fill out and mail
the detachable application form along with your
check today.

 

TEAR OFF
AND MAIL
THIS FORM
TODAY TO:

NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR
INDUSTRY-EDUCATION COOPERATION

c/o National Science Teachers Association

1201 Sixteenth Street NW.
Washington, D. C. 20036

MEMBERSHIP APPLICATION

Please enroll me as a member of the National Associa-
tion for Industry-Education Cooperation.

I enclose a check for:

Individual Membership ($15.00)

 

Institutional Membership ($50.00)

 

Checks should be made payable to NSTA-NAIEC

(please print)

Name

 

Title

Company

 

Address

 

City State

For Institution Membership, others in my organization
who should' receive notices and publications:

 

 

 

 




 

 

" How Business andlndustry A

  _ Are Helping ; the Schools :

‘BY'ALBERT L- AYARS I

 




How Business and Industry

Are Helping the Schools

The growing spirit of cooperation between American business organizations and the nation’s
educational institutions is a complex story that has never been'told in full. To be sure, the contri-
butions of many companies to colleges and universities have been widely publicized, and it is
common knowledge that rapid technological change has made it necessary for industry to spend
vast sums on employee education programs. But it is less well known that business and industry
are also spending many millions of dollars each year in an effort to strengthen the nation’s ele-
mentary and secondary schools. Here Albert L. Ayars tells where this money is going and the
kinds of programs it supports. His data are drawn from a recent survey he conducted of 248 com-
panies, which accounted for about one quarter of all US. business and industry sales and proﬁts ,
in 1963. Dr. Ayars, a former teacher, principal and superintendent of school0 in the state of Wash-
ington, is Director of the Education Department of Hill and Knowlton, a public relations ﬁrm with
headquarters in New York, which handles many industrial accounts.

By ALBERT L. AYARS

long shared a common interest

in fostering the development of
the nation’s youth, but for many years
they maintained an uneasy alliance in
their cooperative efforts to improve the
schools. Communication between the
partners was often poor and relation-
ships were sometimes abrasive. Too
many businessmen appeared to believe
that the schools’ primary function was
to provide a captive audience for the
promotion of their products. And
schoolmen tended to look upon in—
dustry’s offers of help, no matter how
selﬂess the motives, as if they all came
from the most benighted of nineteenth
century robber barons.

The attitudes of educators toward
business and industry, however, have
changed markedly since World War
II. The war itself dramatized the crucial
role that industrial production played
in providing the means for defending
the free world, and since the war there
has been a growing awareness of the
vital function performed by industry
in sustaining the nation’s peace time
economy.

During this same period businessmen
have come to have a better understand—
ing of the essential nature of the edu-
cational enterprise and are no longer
so likely to believe that teachers and
the schools are waiting eagerly for
their pronouncements. Their respect for
the professional teacher and schoolman
has grown, and with it has come an

EDUCATION and industry have

awareness that effective aid to schools
must be shaped by education’s need,
not by industry’s desire. Too, industry
has become more aware of the long-
term beneﬁts to be derived from more
effective schools and strengthened ties

with the community and feels less need
[to demand an immediate return on its
investment in education. As a result,
teachers and schoolmen who once
looked on industrial organizations as
suppliers of “vast and varied misin-

 

lnstructional Services

support for special student programs.
ing different kinds of help is shown

Student field trips to offices,
mills, and factories

Classroom and assembly speakers
Student Club programs
Student work experience programs

and guidance programs
Student award and recognition
programs
Curriculum advisors
Facilities and equipment for meetings
Teachers and professors on loan

Substitute teachers and adult or
night school teachers
Student travel programs

Other programs (seminars, tours,
research projects, work-study
programs for drop-outs, etc.)

 

In addition to other kinds of help, many companies make available
to schools the special knowledge, talents, and skills of their employees,
equipment, and facilities for a variety of activities, and sometimes direct

Elementary

Help in vocational training, counseling,

(less than) 1%

Provided for Schools

The percentage of companies offer-
below.

Secondary College
24%
18%
4%
7%

66%
62%
60%
26%

55%
59%

8%
39%

4% 42% 38%

3%
4%
4%
1%

29%
22%
17%

5%

18%
19%
14%
16%

1% 14%

3%

22%
5%

2%

 

 

 




formation” have now accepted them as
helpful partners, pursuing their own
enlightened self-interest through pro-
motion of the general good.

One important factor in the rap-
prochement of industry and education
has been the role of professional organ-
izations in setting standards for ac-
ceptable materials and services. The
Business-Industry Section of the Na-
tional Science Teachers Association, the
American Association of School Ad-
ministrators, and the Association for
Supervision and Curriculum Develop-
ment have all been active in establish—
ing criteria for evaluating industry’s
proffered aid. In addition, business
organizations and counseling ﬁrms have
sought more often, in recent years, to
staff their education departments with
professional educators who brought
with them a sure knowledge of the
needs of the schools. As a result, the
resources of industry and business have
become a potent force in American edu-
cation.

This does not mean that the indus-
trialist has become wholly self-denying
in his commitment to education. Rather
it means that he takes a long view of
the return he receives: more accurate
public knowledge of his industry and
its contribution to the national economy,
a better trained work force, and im-
proved relations with the community.
The educator, on his part, is far more
receptive to the many kinds of ma-
terials and services offered by industry
and business. But, by the same token,
this does not mean that he accepts all

aid uncritically. He always should, and
usually does, evaluate carefully all
forms of help for their factual content,
objectivity, and educational import. As
a result, the range as well as the effec-
tiveness of materials and services made
available to the schools by business and
industry is constantly growing.

By far the most popular form of
business—industry aid to the schools is
instructional materials for classroom
use—and the diversity of materials of-
fered is astounding. Sixty—seven per
cent of the companies surveyed have
prepared and distributed informational
booklets; 60 per cent have provided
ﬁlmstrips, slides, transparencies, ﬁlms,
recordings, and tapes. Thirty—nine per
cent have supplied books, such as com—
pany histories and textbooks, while 34
per cent furnish samples of raw ma-
terials or ﬁnished products or both, and
nearly a third offer a variety of displays
and exhibits. Others make available
maps, charts, and graphs in a variety
of ﬁelds, bulletin board materials, news-
letters and magazines, research and
experiment guides, model construction
kits, and programed learning materials.

MORE companies (47 per cent) pro-
vide materials on science than any other
subject. A third (33 per cent) supply
subject matter on economics, and a
surprising 17 per cent chose to con-
tribute in the field of history. Other
subject areas that attract substantial
numbers of offerings are industrial arts,
arts and crafts, and music. But the
total spectrum of fields in which ma-

 

Help in Up-Crading Teachers

In a day when knowledge is increasing at an alarming rate, many
companies assume responsibility for helping teachers and college pro-
fessors keep up—to-date professionally, expand their knowledge, and
improve their skills. The kinds of programs offered and the percentage
of companies providing them (see below) seem to indicate that business
and industry view better prepared teachers and improved instruction as
one important key to better schools.

Elementary

College or
Secondary Adult School

 

Plant visits; Business-Industry-
Education Day programs

Workshops, conferences, and
seminars for teachers

Research and work experience
opportunities for teachers

Special classes
Travel programs

and family ﬁnance education
programs, special trips, and
summer employment)

 

Other programs (consultant service,
assistance in economic education

 

24% 54% 34%

7% 54% 34%

1% 10% 24%

1% 3% 3%
1% 2% 1%
2% 5% 3%

 

 

terials are available ranges from bank-
ing to child care.

There is, however, an interesting
contradiction between what industry
believes to be important 5.": the schools
and the materials it actually supplies.
While 47 per cent of the companies
surveyed provide science materials, only
31 per cent believe that the schools
need them above all else. In contrast,
an equal number (47 per cent) believe
that the schools need materials on eco-
nomics from business and industry more
than any other subject, while only 33
per cent make such materials available.
The explanation for this situation doubt—
less lies in the longstanding popularity
of industry’s science materials with the
nation’s teachers for their sound and
accurate content, and the sharp contro-
versy that has developed, on occasion,
over industry-sponsored materials in
the value-laden subject of economics.

A variety of other publications and ma-
terials are also made available to schools,
usually on request. These include annual
reports, unployee publications, adver-
tisements, product catalogues, displays,
and magazines produced for external
distribution. Many companies also dis-
tribute to the schools a wide range of
institutional brochures, booklets, charts,
and recruiting materials that are used in
various ways in the classroom.

Although it is less common for busi-
ness and industry to offer equipment
and supplies to the schools, substantial
numbers of companies do so. Labora-
tory equipment, both new and used, is
the most popular item in this category,
with shop equipment (power tools,
kilns, milling machines, lathes, welding
equipment) and ofﬁce machines (type-
writers, duplicators, and computers)
next most popular. In addition, a wide
variety of new and used equipment
ranging from musical instruments to
cafeteria equipment, is supplied to the
schools.

THESE programs for providing in-
structional materials and equipment, as
well as the varied programs and services
made available to the schools (see ac-
companying boxes) are expensive. And
it is not surprising that much of this
proffered aid is warmly welcomed by
schoolmen. But exact expenditures for
educational programs by industry and
business are hard to come by. Many
large companies ﬁnd it impossible to
supply cost estimates because of the
difﬁculty of compiling data from widely
scattered divisions and branches. There-
fore, it is possible only to estimate,
from available ﬁgures, what the nation-
wide total expenditure may be. On the
basis of figures from the companies
supplying cost data, the following aver—
age per-company expenditures for the

 




various kinds of aid and service were
computed:
Instructional aids
Other informational
materials
Equipment and
supplies
Instructional services
Teacher training
programs
Administration and
operation aid 74,751
Total average expenditure
per company $210,479
If some of the larger firms had been
able to secure total ﬁgures for their
expenditures, this average per-company
figure would certainly have been higher.
A conservative estimate of $250,000 for
each company would make the total
expenditure for the 248 companies sur-
veyed more than $60,000,000. An
equally conservative estimate for the
rest of American industry and business,
which has sales and profits three times
those of the 248 ﬁrms surveyed, might
be half again as much, or $90,000,000.
In addition, previous surveys indicate
that major trade associations make ex~
penditures in this ﬁeld of at least
$10,000,000 annually. These three
figures total $160 million as a modest
estimate of the total expenditure for
education materials, programs, and
services by business and industry in
1963.

$62,947
2,336

7,436
51,873

11,136

Given this substantial expenditure
for education, the question arises as to
why practical, hard-headed industri-
alists and businessmen do it. Their rea-
sons are varied and doubtless have been
inﬂuenced by their experience with the
schools in recent years. But the pro-
grams they support are at least a par-
tial rebuttal of the cynic, and their
words reflect not only knowledge of the
field, but conviction concerning indus-
try's role.

The largest number of companies
(nearly 60 percent) said it was impor-
tant to provide aids to the schools in
order to help education meet the chal-
lenges of the day. Specifically, they
wanted to “help increase teacher effi-
ciency”; “provide fresh, new, up-to'date
materials, equipment, techniques, and
information”; “strengthen instruction”;
and/raise the general level of educa—
tion.”

The next largest number (44 per
cent) wanted to increase educators’

 

given below.

bomb shelters, etc.

Help in planning cafeteria service

All other

 

Aid in Administration and Operation

The special knowledge and varied skills of business management are
made available to schools and colleges in many different settings. In
most cases the offer of aid appears to stem from a natural concern for
economy, eﬂiciency, and safety in the operation of our educational insti-
tutions, but the responsibilities assumed by companies and company
personnel quite often range more widely. Some of the types of help
provided, and the percentage of companies offering each type, are

Membership on boards of education (primarily public schools)
Membership on boards of regents and trustees

Membership on administrative advisory committees

Help in fund raising (primarily private schools)

Help in campaigns for bond issues and special levies

Help in planning safety campaigns, 'fire protection,

Help in school budgeting and accounting
Donation of school buildings, classrooms and sites
Help in planning property control programs
Advice on school insurance and fire-proofing plans

Help in planning school transportation programs

52%
50%

 

 

REPRINTED FROM THE OCTOBER 17,

19614

knowledge of competitive enterprise.
They felt an obligation: to “help educa-
tors and students understand the aims,
accomplishment, problems, and needs
of the free enterprise system and of
individual businesses—the practical side
of business in terms of economics, peo-
ple and skills.”

Others wanted to “help create a
plentiful supply of educated manpower,
skilled and practically oriented"; “to
build awareness of employment oppor-
tunities”; “to fulfill community respon-
sibility of the firm since education is
the basic force of progress, prosperity
and peace and the first line of defense-
a benefit to generations to come.” Just
four admitted that they wanted to “pro-
mote sales, awareness of products, and
more efficient use of products."

A companion question to “why do
they do it,” is the even more revealing,
“what .do they get out of it?" The re-
sponses display an interesting combina-
tion of direct company advantage and
community interest.

The largest number of companies,
about a third, reported as the result of
their efforts, better community and
company relations, more understanding
and sympathy for business goals and
problems, greater company prestige,
and a more friendly attitude on the part
of the public.

Nearly as many reported stronger
teaching. improved curricula, greater
student interest and better trained
graduates; they also detected better
understanding and appreciation of busi-
ness, industry, and the free enterprise
system by both teachers and students.
Substantial numbers of companies cred-
ited tl'ipir twirl:
helping to attract and hold better em-
ployees, and with encouraging a closer
working relationship between educa-
tion and industry that has resulted in
teachers and students looking to their
companies as continuing sources of in-
formation. More limited numbers saw
benefits through expanded markets,
greater awareness of products and bet-
ter use of products, and greater aware-
ness of employment opportunities.

It would be possible to interpret these
responses from industrialists and busi-
nessmen in a variety of ways. But,
whatever the reasons, biisiness-imlustry-
education cooperation is a fact, is ex-
panding, and almost certainly will
continue to grow in the future. More
industrial leaders are coming to realize
that the schools and their students are
not the only beneficiaries; they, too, re-
ceive benefits, and so does all society.
And as technology continues to compli-
(:ate our lives, as well as ease our
burdens, the need becomes even greater
for various economic groups and inter-
ests to understand each other and to
join hands in united cause.

education programs

0F SATURDAY PEVIEW

 




 

 

of Road

An illustration by Rita Parsons from “The Home-

, ,n
coming, by
publishers.

Marlena Fri

ck. David McKay (30.,

A Child’s Book, Too

raceful Tale

A child of 12 or up could

It is a short anowgriceful
story about an oldinan and

”pal- wanna,»- ole-s».

an old horse Its power and
SimpliCJiV” bring to mind
Heminrway s “The Old “vian
and the Sea,” but the stories
are very different.

On a farm in a poor part
of Provence lived a venerable
laborer named Valentin. His
little but was right next to
the stable where he looked
after Pompidou, an ancient
white horse. Valentin’s friend,
the blacksmith, described the
man’s feelings thus: “Valen-
tin and his horse have been
{together many years and the

sun, the wind and the rain
(have forged them in close.
Lcompanionship.

“Valentin has groomed the
horse, fed it. watered it,
taken stones out of. its hooves,
nursed it when it was sick,
and loved it as if: it were his
son. In return, the horse has
carried the old man when he
was weary. kept him warm
on frosty nights and, when
Valentin grew tired of life,
the horse was there to give
him a reason for going on.”

Pomp adou was a horse
from the Camargue, a land of
“shimmering lagoons, quick-
sands and bogs, and red ﬂa-

an, Horse

The Homecoming. by Marlena Frick; McKay; $3.75.

Finding a. book like
stumbling acre as the ﬁrst crocus in your gard.en———its
small and perfect loveliness smites your eye. It isn’t
a happy book, and it probably wasn’t written for chil-
dren. It willbe read by them, though, and should be.

The Homecoming is like

manage it.

mingoes wheeling over the
slatﬂats at sunset.”

It is a beautiful but dan-
gerous place, and horses that
came from there were strong,
intelligent, and sensitive. Val-
entin had picked out Pom~
padou for his master, and. in
his youth he had been a horse
to be proud of. Now he was
28 years old, and too stiff
in the joints to do very much
work.

To Valentin’s horror,

bull. ring. Valentin was out-
raged at the thought of Pom-
padou ending his life in such
agony and disgrace. He took
his few belongings, and start-
ed to lead the horse back to
the Camargue to set him
free.

They did not have far to go,
only 20 miles, but §Q._9.1.§.1.... and
feeble were the both
eyen this ”ﬂgrt £1'istanC..e.
proved to" "B" too rough. The
end sdeo'Valentm to be
a disaster, but the reader
knows it was a triumph.

The author isma'EZJyear-old
newspaper woman. She is an
assistant editor with Hull and
Grimsby Newspapers, Ltd.‘,

\:
his
master had decided to make?
a last few pennies on the;
horse by selling him to the )

 

gh/
spa
fee
lik:
vva:
see
iftl
T‘
rnov
I3rit
Iier
shar
ing .
to h
with
unde
ﬁerc;
Thev

 




V‘Wﬂ?

EEE5EEXEEEEE 55
‘ . HEX 1'12”"??? L???

A

warm,
‘7.
.u

{'7
7545555

5' 72:”.
'4‘ :12 '7,

255 55515 55 755 155
EJE 31 5555 5551555 555555, 5.

Vt
5
555555555 591
”555.555“? 2, ’3? We a,

j ‘4' y y‘ .» .3 _.. ”:73 .3 n0 '
5.3“?» a. 5 ‘ Q~355555Lﬁfg

51555555 t5 555 555
555%

755255 E55titui5 in 355

«55555155555 152 E

{5&3‘1};
EIE @7533 &r@ V5553??? grataf’ugv

-3
$33 ”‘7 r

1’55 §~Z
:83;- ; awn-33! in wakﬁnw

7777775 57" 57:59: 377’“

5555 555 £555 555
alatlmng E 5555555

st 5&5555 55 5555555

57.57. -. 7 ,2»
(5555555595

."W.
$3316

555155555

23.7 5.275 . 2
“E5523 57 13? 2,2153?

(a:
5 5 J. 2
' {2 ’ r553 {-2555
.55J5. 5555EP

7%» . .' '"D .' ) .- v.» n
755. 555555 555 55555
E ~ 2,

I?» E15‘

1}»nswu‘f
555 555“

334?: 13m
.1
q :3» ‘UE‘ )5

Kg) Vb

~A 77'7 72.57 ,
3.

.2. ‘7 ,g,
E7375 .-7. 5:53
1A

7-55 Luau»; J?

15555

55555
EAﬁQ~

7:" 1%} u fﬁéEﬁlVﬁﬁ

 

 

 

 




Jﬂﬂﬁﬁg {MMFAMM and FMMMiMMMt
QMWTLMW Lai: MMMMME

MMMM MMMMalg

‘ ﬁaﬁE'
:MMMM I‘MMaasg *h? Amid“ MMII
r~§ﬂ u 5 v2;-

V , 2x ‘ ~' *1 *I* ”.4, 1 :7 “’*"’£.,
MLMMﬁ .' . -g i“ i MMMM wMng aaM &9M15M EM
JMMM ; g»¢M r; MML Mn ‘

MM MuuMI MM Mega tM Mumnly I0“
CMMMMMM LiMM MMMMME MM MMMM MMMMMMM.

— «I » .5 ’ “ . '1 , . ‘E w "
Lam ”my? MQMMM Mad MMMMM MMMMMM Mﬁﬂﬁaﬁiéﬁﬂm

'3“ 45! . i?- ﬁ‘r‘ M; “F "g“: f; 3 ‘14 ., t - i3"
Lat EMM MM MMng LMM i MMML bMM M 4b
MMMM MM MMM.

I any.

$.3434‘

MhMM tMMy

“1 m.

“arﬁﬁg

SinﬂﬁrﬁlyM

 

 




The Piney Woods Country Life School

CORPORATE NAME
FOR TRAINING NEGRO YOUNG PEOPLE IN CHRISTIANITY, CHARACTER and SERVICE

‘ 7
Piney Woods. Mississippi 37 ”43

NEEDED - A Teacher

Piney Woods School has succeeded because
of the missionary spirit of wonderfully able
teachers who have given their services for only
nominal remuneration other than board and
room.

At present, we are desperately in need of
a Science Teacher; more particularly, for High
School and Junior College Physical Science, but
no-one has volunteered. We must hire a teacher.

Can you help? Any contribution would be
appreciated.

In the joy of spraying a
human orchard,

8
Laurence C. Jones

Founder and President
Piney Woods School

 




 

A
Reader's Digest
REPRHNT

Humbly starting with $1.65 and a vision, Laurence Clifton
Jones has enriched the lives of thousands of Negroes

“*3!

thtle Professor “°" '

Condensed from The Rotarian
NELSON ANTRIM CRAWFORD

HUSKY black boy of 13 lifted a
gunny sack to the top of the
teacher’s desk. Behind the

desk the short,
Negro glanced up.

“What is it, son?” he asked with
a smile.

“Sweet ’taters —- they’s all Ah
got,” answered the boy. “Pappy says
Ah needn’t to come here without no
money, but preachah says you’d
take me. Ah’ll wuhk hahd to learn
things.” He wriggled his bare toes
in an agony of uncertainty.

“Of course I’ll take you,” said
the teacher. “Nobody’s ever been
turned away from Piney Woods
School because he hadn’t any
money.”

Today, grown to manhood, that
boy, R. P. McGhee, is head of the
manual-training department in a
Mississippi Negro high school. “I’d
be an ignorant ﬁeld hand if it hadn’t
been for the Little Professor of Piney
Woods — and so would a lot of the
boys I’ve taught,” says McGhee.
“He taught me to do things. What’s

scholarly-looking

<

more, he inspired me to help other
pCOple do things.”

“The Little Professor” is Laurence
Clifton Jones, Missouri-born, north-
ern-educated Negro, who turned
his back on good jobs and com-
fortable living to bring practical
education and opportunity to mem-
bers of his race in the most backward
region he could find. In 1909 he
founded Piney Woods Country Life
School, nearJackson, Miss, on a pine
stump with three illiterate pupils and
$1.65 cash. The school now has a
$250,000 plant, 1700 acres of well-
tended land, and an enrollment of
440 pupils ranging in age from six to
40, drawn from I 5 states and one
foreign country. It has sent out to
rural communities thousands of
trained farmers, mechanics and
housekeepers and hundreds of prac-
tical, competent teachers. In addition
it has carried the gospel of good
farming, healthful homemaking, sen-
sible religion and stimulating social
life to Negroes for miles around.

The only Negro in his class, at

Copyright 1945, Rotary International, 35 E. H acker Drize, Chicago [,111.
(The Rolanan, October, ’45)

 




 

THE READER’S DIGEST

the University of Iowa, Laurence
Jones was a favorite of faculty and
students because of his musical and
dramatic talent, his scholastic ability
and his sterling character. When
he was graduated in 1907, the white
owner of the hotel where he had
worked as night clerk was ready to
set him up in business. Fathers of
wealthy classmates offered him posi-
tions. One wanted to finance a
dramatic and musical career for him.

But the young man had his mind
made up. “I want to do something
for my pe0ple,” he said.

He went to the deep South, where
he had never been before, and
worked as a farm hand, a cattle
herder, a porter. In the heart of
the piney woods, 2 5 miles south of
Jackson, he found hundreds of blacks
who sharecr0pped cotton, watched
over a few razorback hogs, drank
corn liquor hot from the still. They
were 80 percent illiterate.

Here Jones started teaching, his
pupils three illiterate boys. He made
his living picking cotton and peas
and cutting hay. When he tried to
interest Negroes in the region he
met suspicion and misunderstanding.
They didn’t want education, espe-
cially from a “furriner.” Within
three months, however, his pupils
showed off their newly acquired
learning so well that he had 29
students. A well-to-do Negro in the
community donated a tumble-down
cabin and 40 acres of land. Jones
and his pupils ﬁxed up the old
cabin for a schoolhouse and living
quarters for himself. The county
board of education appropriated
$18 a month.

As the school grew, another build-

ing was needed. Jones approached
a wealthy white mill owner, who
listened to his story and said “I’ve
always claimed it was plumb silly to
try to educate these Negroes. But,
young man, you’ve got guts and a
practical idea. I’ll give you 10,000
feet of lumber, and you can have
credit for any more you need.”

Other white men made contribu-
tions. The Negroes gave their mites.
With their own hands Jones and his
students put up a substantial build-
ing. Enrollment leaped to 85. The
4o-acre tract was planted to corn
and garden truck. When a white
farmer gave the school a Duroc-
Jersey sow that was about to farrow,
the professor and his pupils built
a hog-tight fence—a lesson to a
community where swine were
allowed to run wild. Jones was soon
able to devote the arithmetic lessons
to ﬁguring proﬁts from good crops
and well-cared-for livestock, and
the English classes to essays about
sound farming.

Then one day two brothers, who
were members of the college fra-
ternity where Jones had waited on
table, paid a surprise visit. “I made
up my mind to ask for 3100,” Jones
says, “but before I could get my
courage up, one of them said, ‘We
own 800 acres near your school.
If you want that land, it’s yours.’ ”

A local family started a ﬁne herd
of purebred Ayrshires for the school,
and a retired businessman whose
hobby was orcharding gave 500
fruit and pecan trees. More gifts
arrived daily—clothing which the
students made over, bedding, 01d
furniture, a plow.

Money came in, too, but not fast




THE LITTLE PROFESSOR OF PINE)" IVOOI)S

enough. Jones organized a group
of singers from the student body,
built a makeshift bus on an old
chassis, and took them over the
country giving concerts. At Marshall-
town, Iowa, where he had grown up,
the Rotary Club sponsored a concert
and cleared $1000 for the school.
Jones wrote a song, “Sweet lVIemories
of Dixie,” which brought in enough
money to provide for 40 penniless
boys and girls. He gave Chautauqua
lectures, and organized a semipro
baseball team that earned money for
Piney Woods by playing in many
communities.

Now, in addition to a ﬁne farm
which produces 60 percent of the
food consumed by the students,
the school has ﬁve handsome brick
buildings and 20 frame structures.
Students made the brick, cut the
lumber and put up the buildings.

From the beginning Jones’s for-
mula has been: Teach boys and girls
how to work with their hands so
they will be able to make a living,
academic subjects to make them
articulate and adjusted to American
culture, and sane moral and religious
training as a substitute for supersti-
tlon and fear. Today 30 teachers,
mostly Negro, offer ﬁrst-class voca-
tional training in agriculture, car-
pentry, plumbing and steamﬁtting,
auto.mechanics, masonry, printing,
cooking, sewing, laundry work, book-
k€€plng, stenography. Every student
must learn at least two trades, so that
If work is scarce in one he can turn to
the other. Courses range from pri-
mary grades through junior college.

The students learn by doing.
They milk 50 cows daily, learn
modern farm methods such as ter-

racing and contour plowing, and
experiment in growing tung trees
and kudzu. From the school garden
they put up 15,000 quarts of fruit
and vegetables each year. The girls
make out menus, cook and serve
the meals.

On a press obtained for the school
by C. W. Winn, the white publisher
of the Brandon (Miss) ﬂaw, stu-
dents in printing get out two papers,
one for themselves, one for distri-
bution to friends of the school.
There is no piece of machinery on
the campus that students in me-
chanics cannot repair. Piney \N'oods
boys can roof a building or grind
a valve, build a kitchen cabinet or
weld a broken iron rod.

A blind colored girl who had
formerly begged for a living learned
chair caning at Piney \N'oods. ()ther
blind children followed her example.
One of the teachers studied Braille.
Now there are 26 blind students.
Every blind boy or girl who has
gone out from the school is self-
supporting.

Seriously crippled children are
also trained at the school. Beatrice
Price, crippled by infantile paralysis,
became an expert seamstress. john
Gilmore, legless, is now telephone
supervisor in a New Orleans factory.

Commencement exercises at Piney
Woods are like those in no other
school in America. For example,
Milton V‘Veathersby, valedictorian
of the Class of 1945, spoke for three
minutes of Negro opportunities, then
took oFf his dark-blue cap and gown
and stood in overalls. “Bring in the
pig,” he called out.

Two colored youngsters brought
in a young Duroc-Jersey and laid

 




 

'I'HE REA DER’S DIGEST

it on a table. “I am going to demon-
strate how to vaccinate against hog
cholera,” Weathersby said. As he ex-
plained the process and its scientiﬁc
basis, he took a syringe and plunged
the needle into the pig’s shoulder so
skillfully that the animal made no
sound.

Lenora Collins, salutatorian, laun-
dered and ironed a blouse that would
have taxed the skill of an expert.
Gertrude Adams canned a mess of
beans in a modern pressure cooker,
while Epsy Jane Johnson canned
tomatoes by the hot-water-bath
method. A group of girls exhibited
a luncheon set made from ﬂour
sacks, sheets made from bleached feed
bags. Every one of the 27 graduates
presented something that could be
used to improve the life of the vast
Negro population of the region.

Piney Woods has never departed
from its original ideal of education
for poor children. If a boy or girl
can pay, the charge, including board
and room, is $20 a month. Most of
the students pay what they can and
earn the rest of their way by working.

Through the extension depart-
ment of the school — reaching I 5,000
Negroes annually —— and the in-
ﬂuence of its graduates, three fourths
of the colored farmers in two adja-
cent counties own land, as against
less than five percent when Piney
Woods was started. Twenty home-
economics graduates are now house-

keepers for well-to-do families, at
$75 to $175 a month. Others teach
in 26 states.

Georgie L. Myers, a member of
the ﬁrst graduating class, started
teaching a one-room country school.
She and her pupils gave entertain-
ments, made and sold candy, picked
peas, begged contributions, and
erected a three-room schoolhouse
costing $2500. She repeated this
achievement in two other com-
munities. The counties, seeing what
she had done, furnished funds to
maintain the schools adequately.

Bettye Mae Jack, graduate of
Piney Woods and of the University
of Chicago, has for eight years been
supervisor of three Negro high
schools and 46 grade schools in‘
Scott County, Mississippi.

Small wonder that Piney Woods
has won the continued conﬁdence
and support of white and Negro
alike. And small wonder that
Laurence Clifton Jones is called
“one of the ﬁrst citizens of Missis-
sippi” by Dr. J. S. Vandiver, state
superintendent of public instruction.

I asked the Little Professor how
he managed to persevere through
the long years of his early struggles.
He smiled.

“I just kept on praying as if
everything depended on God, and
kept on working as if everything
depended on me. You can’t get
discouraged if you do that.”

p

REPRINTED FROM THE NOVEMBER 1945 ISSUE OF THE READER’S DIGEST
© 1945 THE READER’S DIGEST ASSOCIATION, INC., PLEASANTVILLE, N.Y. PRINTED IN U.S.A.

 




<‘;‘¢:zma'%r

m“ ”at,

.\ U1: '
-‘ ’m’ 2 m

“ﬁverlyg
y 4‘ i'j'iv a 0

He 4%

.' -: at, in. (v3)
' "6:44) 1:8. any"? J:

?n&% W

in.»

n‘

._ a \“ 1 .«g u
«IQ; g}fif?"7

. . , ‘ . V
Kw. -=~ I". ‘n. . 3*- r "z" _ w 34. “.3.
.- ‘: $.kn1rz'é'i :2..‘-Ai W ’1’: 9&4.“ L} {31H 34‘ w
m '

ERE‘lmﬁi‘ at: ccm'ﬁa "

7’;

ﬁ
ﬁrm, n. 1‘; RM g,
Eva-A, 4&1? thy-4S 9

-v y 'Qr
”3:; A

“I
H.
r .

P l

153* V

.
u . 7-1 {guru '2' ."'r ‘3: 5-;
Th- ii 5t 54:2,. “iv (4* “C if) .-. ’

I"

ri a
. ‘1 '3‘
5: 154.2”

#1

; i
«L .‘.. '9

t. v f
. {Fm-1!.)

f1.”

34.
W“: v: ’5

3’62}.

y” fm‘ M.» ‘
z‘ I; “Hp-c. g3)

~w

his

..
.4; , ,T - 3-1.
4 . 1 .;
“Ii-t EA!» 33‘:

-:'~‘a"

N ..
': V¢V-V: q:‘\, 9

' .1. if u.£Ls,g,;..

CI’TE

«‘X‘c" '5
I ,

ﬂew

a "'5‘

{7‘}! 'z e". ﬁsu} .1. j" " .319 ﬁ t‘g’? .. ‘3 ~. f). (1-1”! 1. J
'43 U" 7“ a (WKJ at at b . ‘-~ ‘ i ~ {int ‘- I. (I
4 .- H II II I II i In , ‘

r‘ ‘
""'.";»}o '24.},

is

ammt,

0 3
sh)?
gr.“

. ,u , y» ,
23$? 31%

'r‘

3 .‘
A 'w‘

x

' fxﬁv . . f ‘. ‘ (,7 ‘.. I. .7, ~ »_ »
aiﬁaa. iheaa waulu ya hiyucbly
? waulﬂ ﬁugﬁﬁﬁh ijat if 333 é$ﬂida

yam mriﬁa ﬁiraetly aw:

"9.

ex?
1 *2?

d.

{mrﬁgfmﬁr

i

.. =0:

3.1, ,,
“I53 453

“9‘

3:;- v,‘ “EH. 3! ._‘ ’7’,» 1%,,” ~41
ué baa wuzj&&

g?

«my

@r 5r$$3

gr? gﬂﬁ %ﬁa prime

a? 3ﬁ?ancs

II-I

“ I " «x .45“?
g m 1“ 323.24“ J a

Einaﬁraig¢

Trwggﬁﬁnt

 




ﬁusquehamm 3.3311121; gamma ﬁlming
ﬁagre, ﬁennzglhzmia

Eﬂnx 52
Sept. 19’ 1965

Animal Welfare Institute
22 East 17th Street
New York, N.Y. 10003

Gentlemen:

On my recent visit to the World's Fair, my wife and I visited the
"Peacnble Kingdom". We brought back quite a bit of literature of
interest among which were your coloring books by Christine Stevens.

I am President of the above humane society, and at the present time
we are organizing an educational campaign, and we feel that these
little coloring books would be very helpful in reaching the children
in the elementary grades.

Would you be kind enough to let us know what charge there would be
for approximately 1,000 of these folders.

Very tgply yours,/7
K\J/’ C? “14/. <; ”A?z'<;\_
Robert J. Forkan, Pres.
Susquehanna Valley Humane Society

/

/

,.

9.8. Please address your correspondence to:

325 Fulton Street
5. Waverly, Pa.
Post Office waverly, N.Y.

 




T 3 3.137;"
LS. .,/ ,.-
ﬂ 'v 1

u

'1
f ‘5 ‘J‘t

m-

"x
”A We.
. ’ h' .1 "I - ’

o

T
J'Zi f 8'3“?) ('3‘?

. .1

A

-.‘ . J g. ‘3’. .1 Zr .
wilddg'jﬂu Add.) week}

2-1 ﬂ‘ ’1_ '- u.

' x} 0.111;. s.»

“'q; A v‘” \‘A V“’ “.

, - ' war. .1}; "L ' f“: - , ' ”-

.£XL'23‘:L2.’~J 3.; 9.2..JJ :1 . - ‘
'"v'.-T. a:-

'l
, "‘ '~‘
.. 10-.“ ”M as

MAW
H Mix 7-“ cf” "
‘- ”A”.

’ . _ {V a .
uznufe 5f$iwd¢ zone
n‘
, .
w N

,. “."',' . N", '1 ~.. :,. ‘ '5" u ,2” V} :l :-
.:.' L; ~1ui.LLie‘. 7.» K. a l , L-‘-J- as!»
.q H ”3 v P r0 T. . QM, 3,. g"; . n,
' v ; I - - A.
JUL t.) J.» A.“ ”y n.&t—-4.,u

k

‘ :— Q. ; ,. w 2 1'" H
l‘ ’ 9- S hllqk? . (I .L. .4 ..
I 6’

>
u

. . .
1 1'1)

‘l‘ul'
=“f"."tt" 3 - Us: «I
‘ , -, . “4.9;... c
". o w ‘ -.
l‘ - -.

in"

;;q“ ﬁcﬁride

ﬁincerglyq

 




5 Breeze Knoll Drive
Westfield, N. J.

July 29, 1965

Mrs. Christine Stevens, President
Animal welfare Institue

22 East 17th Street

New York 3, N. Y.

Dear Mrs. Stevens:

Your letter of the 26th was a disappointment. Of course,
it is easy to have things go askew when vacation time

is on. I had written Mr. Morton telling him I was taking
the liberty of having some pamphlets sent to him. At

the same time I sent him two or three of your other
bulletins which were pretty strong stuff. I am afraid
he has confused the type booklet I intended for his
cnstribution with controversial matters.

Mr. Morton told me he is not permitted to take any

"stand" with the campers. As I recall your booklet

(which I gave away and would like a replacement) it
' only suggests school eXperiments for children.

I would still like you to send one as a sample to
Mr. Morton for his own perusal if you will, please.

I am enclosing $1.00 to cover the one for Hr. Morton
and one or two for myself.

I wrote Miss MbBride of Bryn Mawr again and she sent me
a "lovely" reply. At least we have her thinking!

Sincerely,

2 ’1’
s . /

(Mrs. R. W. Bauer}

Y,
: v-
/’

 




KIRSCHNER
CAGES '

the original Glass Plastic
Cage made by the oldest and
most experienced manu-
facturer of this type animal
cage. Fabricated from fiber-
glass, reinforced plastics. ,

Before you install new
cages, WRITE dept. KN
information on these
modern cages. . .molded,
seamless construction . . .with
the door to last a lifetime.

 

WW

MANUFACTURING COMPANY

 

VASHON WASHINGTON

Page 26

 

Henry Bergh:

“Greatest American”

Editor’s Note: Not too long ago, Susan Jackson wrote to The American
Humane Association requesting information on Henry Bergh, founder of
The American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals. Susan, a
junior high school student from Fremont, Calif, planned to enter a “Pers-
pectioe in Greatness” essay contest and had chosen Bergh as her subiect.

When the essay was completed, Susan sent a copy of her work to AHA.
Following are portions of her essay which explain her reasons for choosing
Henry Bergh as the “Greatest American.”

GREATNESS is a funny thing. It falls
on many a deserving shoulder
and labels the bearer as a contribu-
tor to humanity. His name goes
down in history and generation upon
generation remember him.

Then, too, there are the great ones
who are not brought before the pub-
lic. Their deeds go unnoticed for
years and years until someone un-
covers them for a short while and
puts them before the public. Then,
soon after, they fall back into the
forgotten past.

Another factor in greatness is, of
course, time. One man’s deeds, if in
the spotlight now will seem twice as
great next year and so on until his
name is a household word through-
out the country.

To say that the best-known name
in history is the greatest would be a
mistake. The little man who may
have had bad timing and not enough
publicity may have contributed a lot
more than the well-known one.

I believe that Henry Bergh,
founder of the American humane
movement, was such a man. In addi-
tion to the above reasons for not
being well—known, people of his time
considered his work silly and un-
reasonable. What did kicking that
lazy horse mean to that meddler?

Bergh was born in a time when
animals were only property and
could be treated as the owner
wished. The year was 1811. All sorts
of animals—pigs, goats and dogs—
were running through the streets.
. . . There was no such thing as sani—
tation. . . . Farm animals were fed
garbage. . . Dog and cook ﬁghts
were a form of sport. . . .

Today we take it for granted that
when you want to get rid of a pet
you simply call the SPCA or the
pound and they come and take him.
Or maybe there is a rabid dog in

the area. You’re not too seriously
worried because the SPCA will soon
catch up to it. Have you ever stopped
to think what it would be like with-
out any sort of stray animal control?

There would be stray dogs every
which way. If people think we have
a rabies problem now, imagine what
it would be like without animal
shelters.

Unwanted pets would end up in
burlap sacks dumped in rivers, put
in open freight cars, or one of several
other methods to get rid of pesty
animals.

My choice of Henry Bergh as the
greatest American may be a bit
prejudiced for I love animals very
much and could hardly stand to see
one in such agonies as Mr. Bergh
had to endure. At ﬁrst I doubted my
choice, but the more I read of this
man the more I believe that he is
truly the greatest.

Names like George Washington,
Abraham Lincoln and Benjamin
Franklin come to mind ﬁrst when
asked for the Greatest American.
Then as a second thought comes in-
ventors, explorers and other Presi-
dents. A ﬁnal narrowing-down to a
speciﬁc choice takes most of the time.
When you’re sure of your choice,
you do research on him and come
out believing in him more and more.
At least, that’s the way it is with me.

To say that one man is the absolute
greatest would be a mistake. It de-
pends on who makes the choice, for
different people have different “per-
spectives on greatness.” Whereas one

erson may think one act of a man
contributed to humanity, another
may disagree entirely.

So I do not challenge the opinions
of others as to the greatness of their
choices. I merely state my opinion
as I see it.

THE NATIONAL HUMANE REVIEW—SEPTEMBER-OCTOBER, I965

 




 
  

  
  
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
 
 
  
   
     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

THE NATIONAL HUMANE REVIEW—SEPTEMBER-OCTOBER,

 

 

Wise Owl

L'il Feller Will Soon Be on His Own!

I965

 

By JEANNE
WELLENKAMP
Photo by

DON WELLENKAMP

I “L’IL FELLER” is a North
American screech owl
(Otus asio) who doesn’t
give a hoot for mocking
birds. He still can’t under-
stand why they took such
an instant dislike to him.

The little owl fell out of
the nest when he was just
a few days old. Unfortu-
nately, his parents had set
up housekeeping in the
same tree with a pair of.
mockers.

The latter had arrived at
that stage of parental over-
anxiety when anything
that moves is a declared
enemy.

They dived on L’il Feller
and were about to dismem-
ber him when he was
rescued by a passing
youngster.

The tiny ball of fuzz was
rushed to Dr. Gordon
Hubbell, director of Cran-
don Park Zoo, Miami. He
has been living in the clinic
for young animals.

He’s growing fat and
sassy, the slight scar on his
beak the only memento of
his encounter with the ag-
gressive mocking birds.

The owl earns his keep
by gobbling up any insects
which invade his domain.
He’ll soon be old enough
to be released.

Chances are that when
L’il Feller is sent out on his
own, he’ll stay in the Park
where there is an abundant
supply of insects.

Even though he’s still
only half-grown, he’s afraid
of nothing—not even mock-

ing birds!

Page 25

  




July 23, 1965

Miss Gwendolyn C. Elsemore, Program Specialist
Program Department

Girl Scouts of the United States of America
830 Third Avenue

New York, New York 10022

Dear hiss Elsemore:

Please forgive the delay in replying to your kind letter of June 2%. I
think the outline is very good. My only suggestions would be in the Resource
List. For example, I think you would certainly want to include Defenders of
Wildlife, 1346 Connecticut Avenue, N. h., Washington, D. C. I think it would
be desirable, too, to include the Society for Animal Protective Legislation,
Post Office Box 3719, Georgetown Station, Hashinaton, D. C., as one of the
organizations to which the girls might write in particular with respect to
pending legislation.

Among the magazines, Defenders 2; Wildlife News, published by Defenders of
Wildlife, should be listed. The Animal Welfare Institute publication, Eirat
gig and Care 9;,Small Animals, should be listed, for I know it has been.very
popular with Girl Scouts.

I am somewhat dubious about the following organizations being listed: ASPCA
and American Feline Society. If I were trying to get equivalent and sounder
material for the girls in the fields represented by these two, I would substi-
tute Pet Pride, Patti O‘Hern, Executive Secretary, 29960 Harvester Road, Mal-
ibu, California, for the American Feline Society, and The American Humane
Education Society, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Massachusetts, for the ASPCA.
The American Humane Education Society is allied with the Massachusetts SPCA,
the biggest and best SPCA in the United States. It publishes the magazine
Qgg.QgEQ_Animals and a great deal of other educational material for national
distribution. The ASPCA, as you doubtless know, is not a national organiza-
tion but simply does the impounding of dogs for the City of New York. Hany
of its policies are not in the best interests of animals, and no knowledgable
person would ever take an animal there.

 




Miss Gwendolyn C. Elsomoro JU1Y 23; 1965

If you would like to have additional information on any of the above,
please let me know; and I'll be glad to olaborata as much as you like.

we are very grateful to the Girl Scouts for the fine encouragoment to
humane treatment of animals that you give, and we wish to assist you in
every way possible.

Sincerely,

President

 




NATIONAL HEADQUARTERS

~ [ C59o%t )fi/Ze (Mnited Cjiaies 0/ dmerica 830 THIRD AVENUE
\

NEW YORK, NEW YORK 10022
PLAZA 1-6900

AREA CODE 212

June 2h, 1965

’11

,Hiss mstella Draper
Executive Secretary
Animal welfare Institute
22 last 17th Street
New York, hem York 10003

Dear Miss Draper:

we are presently revising our material Service Aide Projects. The
Animal Care Aide section of this material may be of interest to you.
Upon the recommendation of Miss Marie Gaudette, formerly a memier of
our rrogrmn Department Staff, we are enclosing a copy. Anysuggestions
you may have for strengthening the material will be very helpful.

 

This material will be distributed to our Girl Scout Councils throughout
the United States, In the year 196A, aporoximately 2,123 Senior dirl
scouts were trained and served as Animal Care Aides.

Sincerely yours,

{M ,1 «v. -.>£LJ§<J~,§~ C . 6:me

Gwendolyn C. Elsemore
Program Specialist
Program_aepartment

FOUNDED MARCH 12, 1912
CHARTERED BY CONGRESS MARCH 16. 1950

 




ANIMAL CARE AIDE PROJE_C_T

 

Senior Girl Scouts who serve as Animal Care Aides do so in the
spirit of the Sixth Law, ”A Girl Scout is kind to animals."v
This spirit extends to include all living things. One of the
foremost spiritual and ethical figures of our time, Dr. Albert
Schweitzer, states so well this reverence for life and our obli-
gation to it: "Ethics consists in responsibility toward all

that lives _ responsibility which has become so wide as to be

limitless."

Wherever there are people there will be household pets - dogs,
cats, birds, fish, turtles, and others. Children who grow up
in the company of pets can learn valuable life lessons of care,

responsibility, and love.

A child who is taught kindness and humaneness toward all living
things retains these attitudes throughout his life. The late

President Kennedy, in his congratulatory note to The National

 

Humane Review magazine on its Golden Anniversary, said: "To
educate our people, and especially our children, in humane atti-
tudes and actions toward living things is to preserve and
strengthen our national heritage and the moral values we champion
throughout the world." Many men and women in the United States
agree wholeheartedly with this, and work tirelessly toward the

protections and care of animals.

As Animal Care Aides, Senior Scouts can be part of these efforts.

 




SERVICE OPPORTUNITIES

eAssist agencies in the community whose purpose is: the
rescue, protection, care and humane treatment of
animals.

wAssist in dog-obedience training centers: help with regis-

trations, keep records; set up equipment, walk dogs,

assist with demonstrations.

~Assr$ with community pet shows: serve as ushers, guides,
messengers, and in information booths. Help set up
and dismantle the show. Assist with care of animals
during shows.

-Conduct a pet show for children; demonstrate and teach
proper pet care and.training.

-Help establish an animal rescue center, humane society or
association if none is established in the community.
Serve at the shelter.

~Help preserve wilderness and wildlife areas - national,
state and local.

«Help promote and preserve wildlife sanctuaries.

aAssist in emergency animal relief in times of disaster.
Prepare emergency kits for care of animals, birds,
etc.

~Serve as consultants to Junior Girl Scouts working on the
Pets Badge.

-Serve as consultants to Cadette Girl Scouts working on the

Animal Kingdom.and.First Aid to Animals' Badges.

 




-Serve as guides to Brownie Girl Scouts for tours of ZOOS, 2 / \

animal rescue centers, animal hospitals, animal
boarding centers.
~Serve in a local zoo as guides for children visiting the

zoo; assist with the care of animals if possible.

RECOMMENDATIONS FOR PROGRAM SERVICES

 

In seeking out possible prospects for Animal Care Aide oppor-
tunities, consult the organization resource list included in
this section. Check your telephone directory for possible

local chapters of these organizations.

Veterinarians are often very helpful in suggesting other re-
sources, even though sometimes they cannot offer service Oppor-
tunities to girls because of limited facilities and lack of
personnel. Veterinarians who are interested in the project,
may be able to offer the Opportunity to only one or two girls

at a time.

It may take the combined efforts of several organizations to
provide training for Animal Care Aides. Each could contribute

a session or two.

Since the services which Animal Care Aides can offer is not nec-
essarily confined to building facilities, this permits a wide
range of possibilities EEEEE girls will serve. This being true,
this project may not have a single organizational sponsorship.
Therefore, Program Services should appoint a Girl Scout adult to
coordinate this project - preferably a person who can share the
enthusiasm of girls for this project. If service opportunities
are widely separate within the council, more than one adult may

be needed.

 




The coordinator of the project would see to it that the girls
were properly trained in the skills they will need to perform
the service. She would be responsible to Program Services to
report on the progress of the project.

'WHAT IS EXPECTED THAT GIRLS WILL LEARN FROM AN ANIMAL CARE AIDE
EXPERIENCE

 

~The Care of animals and other pets:

Feeding; grooming; protection; simple first aid for
animals, care of simple ailments or injuries; de-
tection of serious ailments or injuries; when to
call the veterinarian. Be able to teach these
skills to others.

the organizations that are concerned with animal wel-
fare - national, state and local.

-Know the current laws and pending legislation that protect
animals - national, state, and local.

~Know local licensing regulations relative to household pets.

-Know Federal and state laws that regulate the manufacture
of commercial pet foods and equipment.

«Know health and safety precautions and regulations for
transporting animals by automobile, train or
airplane.

-Know health and safety requirements - vaccinations, immu-
nizations, and quarantine regulations - for trans-
porting animals within the Uhited States and abroad.

~Learn about the international agencies organized for the

welfare and protection of animals.

2a. ~

 




~Learn as much as possible about the preservation of
wildlife — national, state and local efforts.

~Know what precautions and provisions are set up locally
for the rescue, care and protection of animals in
case of a local emergency: flood, fire, earthquake,
explosion, etc. Be able to instruct others on how
to protect and care for their animals and other pets
in times of emergency. Demonstrate how to prepare
and maintain emergency kits for household pets.
what vocational Opportunities are available for
women now and in the future in the field of veter~
inary medicine and allied jobs. Learn where train-

ing for positions can.be obtained.

RESOURCE LIST

 

ORGANIZATIONS

 

The American Society for Prevention of Cruelty to Animals

York Avenue and 92nd Street, wa York, New York 10028

The American Humane Association 896 Pennsylvania Street

 

Denver, Colorado

Animal welfare Institute 22 East 17th Street, New York,

 

New York 10003

American veterinary Medical Association 600 South Michigan

 

Avenue, Chicago 5, Illinois

The Nemen's Veterinary Association 537 North Solano Drive,

Las Cruces, New Nbxico

2%

 




The Wilderness Society 729—1Sth Street, N. W., Washington, 6;ijﬁ\

D. C. 20005

National Dog'Week Association 333 North Michigan.Avenue,

Chicago 16, Illinois

The American Feline Society bl Union Square West, New York,

New York 10003

National Audubon Society 1130 Fifth Avenue, New York,

 

New York 10028

National Parks Association 1300 New Hampshire Avenue, N. N.,

 

Washington, D. c. 20036
PANPHLETS AND PACKETS - Write for:

_Eets and People - A youth-service program of the Dog Care

 

Division of the Ralston Purina Company, Room 1111, 18h1
Broadway, New York, New York 10023. Nhterials free upon

request.

Pet Food Insitute 333 North Michigan.Avenue, Chicago,

 

Illinois. Materials free upon request.

How to Make Your Camp Site a Wildlife Sanctuary Girl Scouts

of the U.S.A., 830 Third ﬁvenue, New York, New York 10022

ENGAZINES - Consult your local librarian.

The Audubon Magazine - published by the National Audubon

 

Society. See address under "Organizations."

 




 

The National Humane Review - published by the American €z{e§\

Humane Association. See address under "Organizations."

Natural History Magazine — Journal of the American Museum

 

of Natural History, New York, New York lOOZh

American Girl Magazine articles - official publication of

 

Girl Scouts of the U.S.A., 830 Third Avenue, New York,

New York 10022.

"TeeneAge Horse Trainer" - by Louise Miller n July 1963
"Which Pet Suits You" - by Evelyn Smith — August 1963

"Pamper Your Pup" - by Shirlee P. Newman - May 1965

The Living'Wilderness - published quarterly by The Wilderness

 

Society. See address under "Organizations."

National Parks Magazine - official publication of the National

 

Parks Association. See address under "Organizations.”

Veterinary_Medicine as a Career American Veterinary Medical

 

Association. See address under "Organizations." Free

Career Opportunities for Veterinarians in the Agricultural

 

Research Service Misc., Publication #727, Superintendent

 

of Documents, U. S. Government Printing Office, Washington,

D. c. 23025, 15¢

Careers in Veterinary Medicine B'nai B'rith Vocational

Service, 1129 Vermont Avenue, N. W3,‘Washington S, D. C.,2§¢

Veterinarians Science Research Associates, 57 Grand Avenue,

 

Chicago 10, Illinois, h5¢

 




Veterinarian - Briefs - Chronicle Occupational Brief Service Zvéﬂ

 

and Chronicle Guidance Service, Mbravia, New York. Single

COpies to students, 25¢

Pets and Patients a article in January, l96h issue of the

 

American Girl Magazine. (By Shirley Benger).

NOTE: Each veterinary college has a bulletin on "veterinary
Medicine as a Career” and the official college bulletin

containing course description.

Available on request from the nearest veterinary college.

Consult university or college directories.

 




NATIONAL HEADQUARTERS

if! C5CO\LL~ 0/ M29 (Mniied Cjtates 0/ ﬂmerica 830 THIRD AVENUE

NEW YORK. NEW YORK 10022
PLAZA 1-6900

AREA CODE 212

May 10, 1965

Animal welfare Institute
22 East 17th Street
New York, New York 10003

Gentlemen:

we are presently up-dating our publication, Service Aide Projects, which
includes Animal Care Aides. This is a service which is designed for Senior
Girl Scouts (ages 15 through 17 years) and administered by Girl Scout councils
throughout the country. In a recent survey of 273 councils (over 50 per cent),
it was revealed that more than a thousand Senior Girl Scouts served as Animal
Care Aides during the year l96h.

 

If your organization has materials which would enrich this project, particul-
arly on vocations in the field of veterinary medicine, and allied fields, we
would be happy to include them in the bibliography of the Service Aide publi-

cation. Could you provide us with a list of what is available from your organ-
ization.

we appreciate the attention you have given to this request.

Sincerely yours,

\ e (6
\f; ,, 1 9 .l sealer, C, (grail

(
Gwendolyn C. Elsemore
Program Specialist
Program Department

.. -» W‘Vk

GCE:rs

FOUNDED MARCH 12.1919
CHARTERED BY CONGRESS MARCH 18. 1950

 




December 1h, lQéh

W80 Edith 00 Murray
Director Humane Education
403 Cresswell Avenue
Ridley Park, PBnna.

Dear mrs. Murray,

Thanks for your kind letter and check. The book and leaflets that
you requested were sent you.

If you want materials under the heading "Protection of Wildlife" in
quantity, I would suggest that you write directly to Defenders of Wildlife,
809 DuPont Circle Building, washington, D.C. to see which they have in stock
in quantity. we do not keep large quantities at our office.

As for the listings under "Humane Slaughter", we have a good supply
of the editorials which appeared at the time of passage of the federal
humane slaughter act in 1958. we do not have large quantities of the
manufacturers' leaflets but could send you a few samples, so that you could
write directly to the manufacturers for more. For the uniform state humane
slaughter bill, published by the American Humane Association, I would also
address them directly. Their address is: P. O. Box 1266, Denver, Colorado.

Best wishes for a happy Christmas and New Year.

Sincerely,

 




THE DELAWARE COUNTY SOCIETY 1
FOR PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS

CHARTERED 19“. 1- SHELTER AND AMBULANCE SERVICE FOR
f. , " ‘ ._ UNWANTED. DISABLED AND HOMELESS
TO PROVIDE EFFECTIVE MEANS FOR THE ' '. L". I SMALL ANIMALS.
PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS : -‘ . , CEMETERY FOR ANIMAL PETS.
THROUGHOUT THE COUNTY OF DELA- '* - '
WARE-

DEPT. FOR HUMANE EDUCATION.

. ., .1 AFFILIATED WITH
ENFORCING ALL LAWS AND LEGAL .. 7 I ‘ THE AMERICAN HUMANE ASSN.

RE .
GULATIONS PROTECTING ANIMALS THE FEDERATED HUMANE SOCIETIES

EXTENDING HUMANE WORK IN ALL OF PENNSYLVAN'A'

WAYS.

SANDY BANK ROAD
MEDIA. PENNA.

COURTESY "THE AMERICAN WEEKLY" EDWIN MECARGEE

“NIRRL RELFARE IJSTITUYE, 403-CreSSwell ave.,
ZZ-Rast 17th. Street. Riiley Bark,Renna.
New York 3 W.Y.

hccemoer 5,1904

Wear Sire:

Kinily seni the"Status of Animuls in Christian Religion”
by TMjor Hume uni one copy of ”1‘! Pruise of Anthromorphism” 0y
the sung uutrnr. Add ten copies of "Good King Lion"

I can also use for orogrems at Lone n's Clubs the three listed articles
under Protection of Lildlife. For a pr ogrem &t H“ Agricultural 001'
legs I“would like the three listings under Humune Slaughter. Con
these six leAflets be bought in quantity ?

 

 

 

Please find check enclosed for book but must be quised on cost of
Good Kinl Lion. Thanking you,I am,

)gd‘gg/ W37? (CLL1

(Mrs. Ra aymoni K. Edith O.Ri'urray
Director Humane EduCati

 




 

 

THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 3,

 

 

 

The New York Times (by PatrickvA. Burns)

BEST FRIENDS: Boys at Lincoln Hall, Roman Catholic protectory for delinquent boys
at Lincolndale, N .'Y.,.are accompanied by their dogs wherever they go on BOO-acre estate.
The dogs, of all sizes and breeds, are used to help the boys make new lives for themselves.

 

By MERRILL-,FOLSOM

Special to The New- York Times
LINCOLNDALE, N. Y., Sept.
2—Thirty-six dogs of assorted
sizes and breeds are helping 245
delinquent boys switch to honor-
able .lives. ’ ‘

The boys, largely from the
streets of New York by way of
the" criminal courts, are resi-
dents of Lincoln-"Hall, a 900-
acre Roman Catholic protectory.
Theyhave generally been rebel-
liOus, suspicious, bewildered and
antagonistic on arrival.

‘ The'dogs are used to help the
youths relax, to win confidence
and to learn friendship, love,
loyalty and obedience.

‘_‘The- dogs are a bridge to a
new. life,” said _Brother Chris-
itian, director of the; institution.
The boysar'e 11. to, 15 years
sil’d. . Manly? .‘ are from broken.
homes. Theyhave robbed, stolen
cars and committed“ assaults.
Those finterizieived here last
"Week were relaxed, clear-eyed
and" sincere as they hiked
through the Woods, fished and
played ' games ‘With the dogs at
their, Sides. ‘ j i
‘ “Whe'reVerf the kids go the
dogs' go, except in the dining
- hall}? Brother 'Am'jator Michael
said.‘ {‘We, try, to keep: the. dogs
‘ out of. ‘th‘ec1assrooms (but 7 don’t

alWay's .Succeed. One problem is

 

 

Boys Learn About Obedience
and Love From Pets at
Home in Westchester

 

that some of the kids won’t eat
meat sometimes, so that they
can take it to the pets.”

Tony, whose parents are on
relief in the Bronx, said his
favorite was Tiny Bear, a 134-
pound Newfoundland that sleeps
beside him in the Elms, one of-
the 24-bed cottages. Tony
weighs only 98 pounds and the
dog climbs all over him.

“Tiny Bear,” Tony said, “has
a habit of grabbing cuffs of
pants in his teeth and pulling.
Us kids have taught him real
discipline. We yell ‘patio’ and
he stops misbehaving, because
he hates being tied on the
patio.’f . _

Cliches Proved True

Tony, now 14, was committed
to Lincoln Hall in 1961' for as-
sault and larceny. Released two
years later, he was returned
last September for picking
pockets and Shoplifting. He said
today he had learned about
friendship, self-respect, loyalty
and love from Tiny Bear and

 

wouldn’t get into trouble again.

Dogs Helping to Guide Delinquents to a New Life

 

“All ‘the cliches about dogs
being man’s best friend are
proved true here,” said Brother
Christopher, Tony’s counselor.

Brother Leo echoed the senti-
ment as Dusty, Rusty and.
Bleach —- three big setters ~—
Watched attentively as he fitted
the boys of Cedar Cottage with
new football helmets.

Johnny, a youth at. Oak Cot-
tage Whose specialty is the big
gray Weimaraners, was espe-
cially proud of Norman’s Pike-
val Pilar-“and her 10 puppies.

Most of the dogs were donated
by estate and kennel owners.
Boys may take home special
pets when they leave Lincoln
Hall. . 7 -

Brother Amator Michael re-
called that ~ one of the' star
“graduates” had taken home a
Great Dane, had to return it
when he got -married and
moved into a small apartment
but recently“ returned to get a
Great Dane puppy because he
had foimd a bigger home.

Lincoln Hall, operated by the
Brothers of ‘ the Christian
Schools, also has horses, rabbits,
cats and a monkey for the boys.
The institution was in the
Bronx from‘1’863 before moving
*here, in 1905. It is operated by
30» brothers and-175 lay em-

 

ployes.

 

V

 

 




\\\ \ \ . \ \\\\\\ \ \\\\ \\\\

He hunts the wisest who leaves
home his gun

And takes for prize the peace
of waiting hills,

walks mirrored in a thousand
hidden eyes,

And finds his sport in what the
spirit wills.

 

*
*
_
——————.

He walks the tallest who leaves
home his snare,

His traps, his arrows, and his
skinning knife,

And takes for prey the gentle
gratitude

Of smaller brothers in this
Land of Life!

 

 

 

 

--- Louise'Weibert Sutton

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

“It"
‘ a t‘
aa- ‘ - (,1

l y ” K
11"¢V1,‘«z$r % ‘

k ‘%ﬂ(”ér /
‘Msuw‘ "‘—

1 {WNW U ~ “ fl‘///

 

 

 

. .

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Published monthly, September through June.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

U
n
e
x
P
e
c
t
e
d

H m 0‘s o 4 0 :5

a- 0\ u) #4,

 




  
 

GOOD NEWS from Unexpected

_—————

IN THE WEST

A teacher from Montana writes: I have
always enjoyed teaching in our Montana
rural schools for so many of them are set
off by themselves where wildlife has some
freedom to wander around unmolested.

I always tell the school children that if
they spy some wildlife out the school windows
they should tell us quietly. We would all
stop and watch it. I just love that first-
hand nature study we get.

"""\
In my various schools we have watched pine
grosbeaks, counted 67 deer passing on the
hillside, and seen antelope. At one school
we were fascinated watching ants work to
cover up a big dent put in their ant-hill
by a horse‘s hoof. We have watched badgers,
too, in our school yards.

 

At other times there have been moose, elk,
and in the Centennial I used to watch the
sandhill cranes through binoculars after
school. You could hear their voices all
up and down the valley. .

 

November 1964

TWO SCHOOLS

 

 

 

 

IN THE SOUTH

  

Rufus M. Reed, Kentucky columnist and
lecturer, describes a school in West
Virginia:

I met a man just the other day who lived
away out on a wooded ridge, amongst all
nature, him and his wife. He was a regular
Thoreau, a poet, a naturalist, and 8
conserver of all kinds of wildlife.

He had a bluebird's nest in a box on an
iron pole, not forty feet from his door,
and the mother was feeding her youngvhlle .
I was there. He said this was the third

family she had reared that year.

This man teaches a little rural 8011001
out on this ridge road, and he took me to
his schoolroom and showed me the wonde
thinss he was teaching the kids about
nature and wildlife.

This man won't kill anything, and he hit:
8 big horned owl that comes to his ff:-
Yard every night and hoots; he had a :13
kinds of birds and knew them all by 336”
ans sight; he had a field full of £10

of all kinds.

 
      
   
   
   
   
    
    
     
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
   
  
 
  
    
   
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
    
    

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

GOOD NEWS from Unexpected

/

November 1964

Page 5

KINDNESS CLUB NOTES

Letter of Thanks

From a teacher who sponsors
a.Kindness Club in East Bay,

Nova Scotia, comes a letter to

Mrs. Hugh John Flemming, President
of the Kindness Club: "we feed the
birds, stray dogs and stray cats. One
group in my room.volunteered to see that
kindness is shown to all horses; another
group selected dogs, another cats. The
kindness idea is growing so that we have
older pupils coming into the rooms where
we have Clubs to get information about
what we are doing. The children are plan-
ning to write soon to thank you for the
materials you sent. They appreciate

them and use them. They are dear
children."

Generous Gift

Through the generosity of Lady Beaver-
brook, one thousand copies of "How To Be
Kind," the book of the Kindness Club,

have been placed in New Brunswick schools.

Where There's a Will

The SPCA of Hamilton, Ontario, cooper-

ates with the schools in an educational
program. Miss Evelyn Burgess, educational
secretary of the SPCA, writes: "Again

“Hus year we have over 50,000 Junior Humane
Members. . . . This year in the schools

my talks have been used as tests for essays
through the grades. There is a poster
eontest going on and the children's general
Interest in the prevention.of cruelty is
high. . . . I am amazed at the apathy
(amOHS adults) about a subject which I con-

sider the very finest for character
building."

How to Join

N.B., Canada.

 

 

For full information on how to form a
Kindness Club, write to Mrs. Hugh John
Flemming, 252 waterloo Row, Fredericton,

What They Say

From Port Credit, Ontario, a
Kindness Club leader writes:
"Our Kindness Club has twelve
charming and enthusiastic members.
I hope to have a second club started
before Christmas. This is the kind of
work I can put my whole heart into."

A young member from west Sunbury, Pa.,
comments: "I enjoy being a member of this
wonderful Club.' When I grow up, don't be
surprised when some day you hear that an
Animal Shelter has been built in the hills of
West Sunbury County by me---Linda Chaff!"

A businessman from Los Gatos, California:
"The simplicity and goodness of the Kindness
Club idea make me believe that something like
it can get going everywhere very soon. Send
me the supplies and I am willing to devote a
good deal of time to establishing it here."

Are We Civilized?

It has been said that the degree of civili-
zation which a community or a country has
attained is best judged by the degree of
humaneness it Shows in the treatment of
animals. Judging by-this standard, hOw
civilized are we? '

In many ways, we lag behind Britain and the
Scandinavian countries. The Kindness Club
is one vehicle for improving our standards.

Who May Join

The Kindness Club is for children six to 12.
Older people act as leaders, or Raccoon Cap- ‘
tains. Each Club chooses a name and undertakes

one or more projects to help animals._ L

 

 

PLEDGE OF THE KINDNESS CLUB

"I Promise t
all liVing creatures."

o be kind to animals (as well as people) and to SP

ask and act in defense of

 




 

 

GOOD NEWS from Unexpected

NEW FRIENDS

People are finding out that the big animals
who have been feared for centuries are kind
and gentle after all, when approached with
good intentions.

Dr. Olaus J. Murie, called Wilderness
Champion, said of the grizzly bear, "I
respect them and I meet them on equal terms.
They are natural and good. I try to under-
stand them. They have never hurt me." He
confronted them with only a camera and

sketch ad. \"""‘ I‘
P “r" \./ j\

‘ r

\“
r‘. I V“

-Lb'-’

. ’ ~4-\\\ ~‘\:/L- ﬂ3ﬁ(s

To his knowledge and understanding of wild
animals, Dr. Murie added another dimension
---the touch of love. He looked on animals
as he looked on people---individual,
distinctive, worthy to be recognized as
creatures of dignity and worth.

Farley Mowat, and Herb and Lois Crisler,
found out the same about wolves, whom they
studied in the far north. Wolves, they
discovered, were not the savage, blood-
thirsty animals that history has led us to
believe. They are loving family partners,
and learn to love people.

As for wolverines, it has been found that the
dreaded 'Ykiller" will take food from human
hands. He prefers to feed on rodents and
carrion, tackling large animals only when
desperate for food. '

November 1964

The same force formed the sparrow
That fashioned man and king

And the God of the whole

Gave a spark of soul

To each furred and feathered thing.

--- Ella Wheeler Wilcox

Page 6

\

TRAPPER' S TALE

From Mr. C. A. Morehouse, of Canada, comes
this inspiring word: "Through early child-
hood to middle age, I had to trap furbear‘
animals to help out in making a livelihood
and I did become quite expert in this ’
business; but my heart was against the
pain, suffering and killing.

"I discarded the steel traps, and invented
a steel snare which killed much more
humanely, but even that was too much for
me, and one day, after taking a young
bobcat from a snare, I suddenly looked

up at the sky, and said, 'Oh, my God, .
I'm so tired of killing!‘

"Shortly after that, I took up all my
snares and traps-“although I really needed
the money I could get for the furs.

/ -
/2 5.54”
y?: ‘ ‘4

j a ”” 2—-

"At that time 1 was living in a log cabin
near Beaver Harbour village, where I made
my home for nine years. In the area
near the cabin I had a sort of truce,
which I declared, and at time enforced.
There was to be no killing there; and
all the wild creatures came from time to
time. They are not 'dumb'. They are 111
many ways more intelligent than Man.
They knew of the truce and respected
it."

 

 

HT ' . . . ‘
° educate 0111‘ People in humane attitudes and actions toward all living things 15 to

preserve and strength
the world." --- John F. Kennedy

F‘ \
~N\\ LLC:\.\V\\

en our national heritage and the moral values we champion

throughout

 

 

 

 

 




' GOOD NEWS from Unexpected

-\("'—ﬂ——W

 

 

November 1964

138867

THE

CHILDREN' S PAGE

A SQUIRREL'S-EYE VIEW by Samuel J. Squirrel, Esq.

(As visualized by Jimmy Baxter,

Grade 5, Ellison School, Vineland, NJ.)

31 there! I am a squirrel. The other
day I was sitting up in a tree, eating
an acorn, when a car came up to the
house. Then another car and another.

A lot of children piled out. They went
down a path. I hopped to another tree.
They crossed a crude bridge. I hopped
to another tree. Just then I heard a

splash! I couldn't see so well, so I
hopped to another tree. I heard
another splash and another. Three

girls had slipped and fallen in.

/,/

 

 

A lady'was talking to the children, telling

 

 

 

   

I

I

g 7? them a lot of interesting things about the
4"“ ”M. M \HuHﬂLﬂﬁ‘ forest. Then they came to the beaver dam.
“"' _.__: ...——-—-—-——; They crossed it. Then they came to Beaver

 

Falls. The children were picking up sticks.
I climbed down the limb I was on a little

further, to get a closer look. I saw little
teeth marks about the size of mine. I knew

N“ _ —__.—___

0
5%;
They started back down the path. They
saw a caterpillar. Then by the water's
edge they saw, and I saw, a Chrysalis.
It was on along stalk hanging over
the water. I h0pped along till I got
to the. end of the path. They saw a
:uckoo's nest and my nice, cozy, soft,
tSigmaful nest, high up in a hickory
311:: 1They saw'animal tracks. Some
£13 at! ittle children got on their
‘ 31 S and knees to look at them.

i (”é/w
/
1 ”,

 

Then they went to the swamp. I had to hold

my nose because that SMELLED! Then they went
down another path and I followed. They saw

a bird's dust wallow. Down another path,
they saw a pitcher plant. It digests insects.
Then they went back to the cars and drove
away. I learned a lot. Didn't_you?

 

 

Lt

 

  

 

 

a 73%;

(The W M A r, ‘ @Jj/QOJ k": "M"
above story was written in October 1962, after the Ellison School 5th grade

from readers of GOOD NEWS. '

viSited
Small sketches may be used.)

ew ofunexpeCted- Next month we hope to publish articles
the best comPositions will be selected each month.

 

 




GOOD NWS from Unexpected November 1964

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 8
o 0 I \
/ Warrenton, Virginia
/k Report of HSUS Leadership Conference )5;
’2; W September 26-28, 1964 ”‘31
a _.
a \x
Will to Win

New Idea

At its 10th annual Leadership Conference, the
Humane Society of the United States conducted
a tour of the new National Humane Education
Center located at Waterford, near Leesburg.

The buildings, set in rolling country, will
house a library of nature books, as well as
a full assortment of humane literature. The
grounds are to be landscaped for wildlife
habitat by the National Audubon Society.

Staffed by dedicated teachers, the Center will
conduct classes for leaders from all over the
country. Students will not only learn theory
from experts,_but will exchange ideas with
fellow workers. Going right outdoors, where
wildlife may be observed in its natural habi-
tat, they will make contacts with nature

which will help them to teach reverence for
life in their own communities.

A Dream

The National Humane Education Center is the
dream come true of Fred Myers, founder and
first president of the HSUS. Before his death
a few months ago, Mr. Myers visited the site,
which Miss Edith Goods and Miss Alice Morgan
Wright, well-known humanitarians, had bought
as a retreat for their old age. 'Mr. Myers
remarked what a wonderful place it would be
for a humane education center. The ladies
agreed. They donated the site and are help-
ing to make Mr. Myers' idea a reality. The
Center will be dedicated to his memory.

Award Winner

Mrs. Hugh John Flemming, who started the
Kindness Club five years ago, was honored at
the Awards Dinner. For her work with the
Kindness Club, Mrs. Flemming received the
HSUS Award as Humanitarian of the Year.

f (a

\
t

  
 

‘3') '/’/
-13?
M/ -, ' ic‘

 

The Wyoming Humane Society four years ago
launched a campaign to abolish the savage
practice of steer roping (busting). Says
Harry E. Dearinger, Secretary, "Where
there's a will, there's a way. We shall
not let up on our fight to abolish this
ugly sport." The Society now has a case
pending in the District Court, to compel
the State Veterinary Officer to outlaw
this cruelty.

Of the People

The fate of laboratory animals was dis-
cussed by U.S. Representative Claude
Pepper, who promised renewed efforts
to get a bill passed to help them.
Lawmakers, he said, cannot do this job
alone. We must write letters, and make
our influence felt wherever possible,
to see that humane laws are passed.
The Randall-Pepper bills are endorsed
by the HSUSI,as the only two which provide
for adequate enforcement.

Kindness in Church

 

The conversion of Rev. Charles Herrick,
pastor of the Presbyterian Church in
Derby, Conn. , is a big breakthrough for
the humane cause. Rev. Herrick, aroused
by Cleveland Amory's article about lab.
animals in the Post, went to see for hlm-
self. In a tour of animal labs, he became
convinced that something must be done.
He plans to speak and write on behalf of
laboratory animals. Being a camera famf
he also plans to interest young people 0
his church in the joys of taking plctures

 

of animals instead of hunting thfmo e
has become a director of the HSUS.
People Caged

rator 0f

Mrs. Margaret Scott, zoo administ nd in'
Ft. Worth, Texas, told of the new tie
zoos. People are caged and watch;6
animals move about freely. New b1
exhibits have no glass wall) and an‘f
electric eye keeps watch and warns 1
anyone tries to molest the birds-

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

GOOD NEWS from Unexpected November 1964

K, MO 7 “w TWOGREATMEN
\\\\\) i I 3

  
   
  
  
 
    
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
 

 

”—s \ I (r \ E ‘1 L ' ‘.:.: ' ~ .
._ W2> a, I]: is said that bincoln was so heartbroken
———— K e en he shot a wild turkey-«his first--..

that he vowed never to hunt again.

One of the last act f
SHALL LEAD . . . . s 0 our late
A CHILD Freeident, John F. Kennedy, a year ago,
From Florida comes the story of nine-year- was tﬁe grantingof a one-yearpardon to
old Brad Kidd, who had begged to go a 111' ey given him for Thanksgiving.

hunting with his dad. Mr. Kidd's first
shot wounded a duck. He was about to
shoot again when Brad ran to the duck.
"It's hurt," he said. "Don't kill it.
I want to take it home."

Mr. Kidd tried next to shoot a turkey, but
Brad wouldn't let him. "You'll scare my
duck." The hunting episode ended with a'
trip to a veterinarian's office, where
Brad learned how to nurse his duck back

to health.

 

 

 

 

   
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
  
    
    
     
   
  
  
   

HEROINE

An engineer and surveyor tells this true
Itory: While fighting a fire, I noticed the
' flames had spread to a dry tulip poplar snag
about 60 feet high. Suddenly I heard a
squeaking noise and saw a mother flying

:Quirrel's head pOp out of a hole near the
op.

She surveyed the burning woods and saw the
flames leaping up the dead snag. Darting back
inside the hole, she came out with a baby fly—
1118 Squirrel firmly clenched in her teeth.

She sailed with it to a nearby tree and left

ﬁrclinging to the trunk, out of reach of the
e.

Zlémes were now licking high up the snag. She
délledﬁaCky ran fast up through the flames and
Wed Into the hole. Out she came with another

22w. She flew away with it and placed it on
e tree beside the first.

Gong bad" to the burning tree she ran through the flames, which scorched her hair: She
”ed into the nest and came out with a third baby. She volplained With itthrough Fm
:mas and SmOke and placed it safely with the others. She had savedrthem Just in time.
” dead snag was soon engulfed in flames and shortly burned ’00 the ground.

 

0 t . _.
than has not the animals have nothing

t hing that the animals have not at least a vestige of,

es not in some degree share." --- Ernest Thompson Seton




GOOD NEWS from Unexpected

November 1964

 

W O O D L A N D
N O V E M B E R

In late October, persimmons ripen. The
trees are a rendezvous for robins, and will
be all winter long. The red chokeberries
have reached perfection in early November,
and bushes are often stripped of their
fruit in a single day by migrating birds.
No acorns are left on the shrub oaks, and
squirrels are still swaying on high tree—
tops, garnering the last acorns and
hickory nuts.

On the forest floor, chipmunks are
hurrying seeds into storehouses, and mice
are scampering after corn scattered among
the leaves. Snakes have gone into hiber-
nation, but some frogs and turtles still
sun themselves on sunny days. A few
dragon flies, butterflies and mosquitoes
still hover on warm days.

9.1

r”
Fall rains have brought deep water to
ditches that were dry. Surface scum on
the stream, made up of pollen dropped from
blooms of sweet pepper and other shrubs,
has been swept downstream along with count—
less twigs and leaves. The creek is
sparkling'and clear, and water is pouring
across the beaver dams.

Myriads of jewels adorn bare branches.

Late mushrooms have sprung up, startling,
pure white among the
sodden leaves. A box
turtle plods along the
path, almost ready for
his winter sleep. Songb
sparrows sing in the rain.

Bluebirds are coming through on their way
south. Flocks gather in fields and yards,
and along the woods' edge. After eating
insects and berries, they sit and preen in
the sun. They inspect birdhouses. They'll
be coming back through next spring;

Flying squirrels are ensconced in snug
winter nests. Walking by a woodland bird-
house just before dawn, we saw four flying
squirrels dart out and cling to the tree
trunk. Apparently they had retired for the
day when our passing disturbed them. At
sunset one day we observed a flying squir-
rel peek out of his hole, resting his

paws on the rim. His big, dark eyes
regarded us

calmly.

"hum:

(

A
§j

”/
Q
3

Just then a young red squirrel came pouncing
over the leaves, dashed up the tree trunk
and confronted the flying squirrel nose to
nose. The flyer chirred sharply and the
red one retreated. After lively maneuvers
in a nearby pine, he again came whisking
to the flying squirrel. Once more the
home owner chirred in warning and the red
squirrel frisked away. Since this same
box held baby red squirrels in August, it
might have been the red one's former home.

One little beaver began following his
mother, saying, “M-m-m-mpmpm," in an aSking
voice. We could not hear her answer, but
she must have said Yes. He turned, came
straight back to the dam, climbed on it
and grabbed a stick.

Swimming away with it,

he added his small

teeth clickings to

the chorus of loud

chewing by the rest

of the famil . ’
y if 14/”
l

f

N~H
,/

 




I
QMQ ALBERTSON PUBLIC LIBRARY

CLARA E. WENDEL. DIRECTOR

February 19, 1965

Animal Welfare Institute
22 East 17m Street
New York 3, New York

Dear Sirs:

Would you please place the following libraries on
your mailing list for any free information you may
have available:

1. Albertson Public Library
905 North Orange Avenue
Orlando, Florida

Booker T. Washington Branch
548 W. Jackson Street
Orlando, Florida

College Park Branch
2518 Edgewater Drive
Orlando, Florida

Colonial Town Branch
1401 Park Lake Avenue
Orlando, Florida

Pine Hills Branch

Orange L’ounty Library System
Pine Hills Shopping Center
5155 West Colonial Drive
Orlando, Florida

West Orange Branch

Orange County Library System
155 West Maple

Winter Garden, Florida

 




Animal Welfare Institue -2- February 19, 1965

7. North Orange Branch
Orange County Library System
Central and Third
Apopka, Florida

Fort Gatlin Branch Library
Orange County Library System
Gatlin Shopping Center

105 Gatlin Avenue

Orlando, Florida

Azalea Park Branch

Orange County Library System
65 Park Lake

Orlando, Florida

Thank you very much.

Sincerely,

I" /L ‘J' \rwtzﬁl /gm,-.‘ 1" 6? / )'//,' ,M...
Mrs. Joan F, Lang
Head of Extension

/

 




Marsh 23, 1965

Dr. Stuart R.‘Wostorlund

Assoc. Professor of Education
School of Education, Bldg. D Rm. 300
Gsorgs Washington University
Washington, D.C.

Ebar Dr. Wastorlund,

In response to your kind letter of March third, we

have sent you copies of our manuals, “First Aid and

Cars of Small.An1mals" and "Human. Biology Projects,"

and I am enclosing additional loaflots and reprints with t
this latter.

The President of ths.An1mnl wslfare Institute is in.Wssh1ng-
hon at the present timo and will telephone you to discuss
further material which ysu may wish to have fromkhis

office.

Year work in this field is much appreciated.

Yours sincerely,

Alexandra Psschka
Exscutive Secretary

 




THE GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY
WASHINGTON. D. c. 20006

1th 3, 1.965;

Anima1 Vé1fare tInstitute
2Luit1t:.x.)t

1-? {211* Va V1:

€51n,t~n University, in cooperation
ifed -tates, is presentlv enEaVed in
,.e Edgczr tisn. One as pee1 a? this
ﬂat is cuVrent13
'111u are avai1a¥1e on this
hope to develop a 1e in1+ 13
't relates to the ﬁe velapme\ .t
3 811ecV1a1, emotional, —' . ~‘m ,2 1;: Wis 11V-
gatirn W1 3 require dis-2:15..b .. ,admi
tVators, curriculum specialis:s, VthoV3, e10. . @ 1.~' ”oneFu11V,
culminate W1 th the deve10pment 05 a prospectus 1‘ 1 3 0V V°ﬁewTCW
in humane educatian.

EtudV,

+k

a m
U ""

Q
‘K‘V 3.4 ‘1". "‘ T r
I \J 1 31’ :21: _.l,. 1.1 .1 .1 .LS

Ve are canfident that there is inﬁerent withirs a VVegrnV V? F~m
15:1;10n, t:at whiC" is naéﬂed t? helm Vﬁka tVis "ﬁV1i a GettQV plgi
jar V11 indiV1duals to 1*ve 321 werk and 111re +heiV ‘ 135. But we

o- ‘1 - ~ v r . -- w' M" v N .‘a v 5 ’M ’ “
amss can ﬁfident that there 13 a FHed to Lana a 51;; In 1 were thaV

av»

,.. a 1.1 -- ., , , ,1 w , .1 ~ ' . .‘
pVe,§ est1T d0 anout humane e1VL9tion. In Vu1g conueCtlon, we would

‘1

" '1‘ “. “ V V: “‘3' >' -' I“ m "1 ‘- r "‘1
macn ap re ciate an3 mauer1alsﬂ11chou m1gnt send, as ve11 an a bg:a

10h Van may 0110?.

I -‘1 .,1 1"! v‘
results ﬁf 1n1o Vtudy w H11

,
;.UQV peVséhd and T” p:.

m¢u 1!- ~77? v ‘3 ‘. " I.
Than1 u Par roar 3nter est ans

carreﬁpondeneea as folly ws;

’-
~

3W!"-
b1;
mis-

I)???”

a 1’1"}.

VII‘Q-a

 




Bh=.133113 N31333

1330133333 3f M “qtlgw
Califomaia 33333 $311333 at L33
133 3333133 523 Qalifaﬂnia

Bear Mr. 331333;

13 30333133 to 3333 letter of March 263b, 33 will be
3333 3 to 3333313312333 walfare In3titute 113333 33
3 333rce oi fr33 333 133:333, ive material3 :33 slew
333L 33 33333“ 33333333.

3333 0313, or will 33333 3130
. 3 of 333 33t33i313 available fram‘us? If
tt3r, will 333 ”133 13t 33 3303 so that 3 03r~
‘ 3;333 b3 333t to you?

$33333.

Sincer313,

 




CALIFORNIA STATE COLLEGE , A'l‘ lOS ANGELES

 

 

5151 State College Drive, Los Angeles, California 90032

(San Bernardino and Long Beach Freeways Interchange)

Telcpboue 225-1631 (Am: Cod: 213)

March 26, 1965

Animal Welfare Institute
22 East 17th Street
New York 3, New Ycrk

Gentlemen:

We are in the process of revising our book, "Science
Activities for Elementary Children" published by W. C.
Brown and Co., Dubuque, Iowa.

In previous editions we have featured an appendix
entitled, "Sources of Free and Inexpensive Materials,"

in which we have included items from about one hundred
and fifty major companies. These materials have been
very helpful to elementary teachers in science education.

We would like to have permission to list your company in
this section of our book.

We have no way of knowing what the requests or inquiries
will be, but the book has been averaging around 2,000
copies per year for the last fifteen years. The advantage
to you, of course, would be the advertising involved by
the listing, and also whatever incidental advertising

would be included in the materials which you send to the
teachers.

Would you please direct your reply to Dr. Nelson.‘

Sincerely ,ours,

ssor of Education .
California State College at Los Angeles
Los Angeles 32, California

”/7

d u I” >59 ‘~ _, ﬂ
./” I E“? f L s, M
Georg C. Lorbeer
Professor of Education

San Fernando Valley State College
Northridge, California

 




, , .«; ,. mum applied he e the ean. If the plat mama
M diet, he 9m ml}. have hem «mam, her will the risk ef mm a and -
WWW e W elm Meal emeer have rum. A wide variety ef a», a
emf: nag-rim eat safely M hemmely by this mom» (See page 39 in “We heelegg \ ‘
Pm nets”

swam“: Mes ef emeer deathe m e be carried m M We ef meh
deaths are wallehlm Mamet-1w etetletiea weld, be muse with the aid of germ.-
tie Madame in the arm Mar newly to We what melntim. 1:? any,
themwighteebemeeh the magemeymdtyeeef mums M Maximum
aim place. it hes hem mggeetoe, for ewwle, that the meme of 1m emcee-
13 higher in city siege than 2 dogs Mange e! mtg a11- eollutim. A study ef‘
mg)?» would be e eerieee M mm erejeet mail-91y appropriate fer meme high
38h ' ﬂuctuate:

Miami-y research on the virus theory er emeer mm be e particularly timely pre3eet
fer a high wheel meme emeiderieg a career in eclmtiﬂe research. The strung
minim: ere we! we ever the yeere, and the. eweoe-imntal M elinieal meantiatim
at both vim male he truly edueetienel in preparing the future scientist fer the
unwanted aerating ef ell available mam which 1e ee vital fer his memes.

 




3tate Laws spacifically prahibating high aahool axparimantatian
of a nature likely to aausa pain to tha animals involved.

P' . YLVA' IA}

1961 21k 3 15.4514

HUMANE EDUCATION. No cruel exPeriment on anyﬂiving creature
shall be permittad in any public school
of this Commonwaalth.

ﬁgSSACHUSETTS LMN
Chaptar 71 Section 33

VIVISEGTIOﬁ'lND DESSECTIOE'REGULATED: PENALTY. No person shall,
in the presence of a pupil in any public school,
practice vivisection, or exhibit a vivisactad
animal. Dissection of dead animals or any por~
tions tharaof in Such schools shall be confined
to the clasgroom and to the brasence of pupils
engaged in the study to be yromoted thereBy,
and shall in no case be for the purpose of
eXhibition. Violation of this section shall
b8 punighabla by a fin& of not less than ten
nor more than fiftg'dollars.

{139%, 151; R.L. #2, S 21.)

 




 




Section 365,.Act 269 P.A° 1955. Michigan law

"Sec. 365. In every public school within this state, a portion

of the time shall be devoted to teaching the pupils thereof kindness

and justice to, and humane treatment and protection of, animals and

birds, and_the important part they fulfill in the economy of nature.

It shall be optional with tech teacher whether such teaching shall be
through reading, stories, narratives of daily incidents or illustrations
taken from.personal experience. This instruction shall be a part of

the curriculum of s udy in all the public schools of the state of Michigan."

4. J. ”'57:

 




 

 

 

 

“it

wA...

 

r

,> “V ' r i '
\e 3'. r . .- ', .' . ‘
1‘;’$¥£%,§%"i dm;ﬁ:‘lf‘“w% ;

. (

x’, ~.\

 

 

   

   
 

  
 
  

 

s

     

Caring for a pet has started many a boy on the way to maturit ,
aiding the work of the school’s 30 brothers and 175 lay staffers.

Dogs are welcome to sleep on the beds in the 24-boy cottages.
. Many of the 40-odd pets were gifts to the school by outsiders.

NEW YéRK SUNDAY NEWS - JANUARY 24. 1965

    
       

,/r

The way to boys’ hearts
Pet dogs help delinquents find selves

OPERATED BY THE Christian Brothers, the Lincoln Hall School-
for delinquent boys (40 miles north of New York City) offers
moral rehabilitation for juvenile offenders aged 11 to 15. “Break-
ing the ice is one of our biggest problems,” said Brother Chris—
tian, head of the school. Letting the boys adopt dogs has become
a remarkably effective way of “reaching” the youngsters.

 

 

‘ .
‘I ‘l ‘I
Mummwm ..
‘7).-

m. (“1.4 ‘

ﬂ “5’ L, . , _ _ , ,_ , _
western" mNWm *
> . . ,. f; “If x' ‘ ‘

SUNDAY GROUP Foros
first taste of affection in this way.

 

Now...Eat better ‘
and fasterwith

FALSE TEETH,

  
 
    

When false teeth get on your nerves.
many dentists give special H
powder. It helps hold teeth in place—
helps keep them from slipping or drop-
ping down when you talk—emakes you
feel more secure. FASTEETH cushions
tender gums so you can bite harder
and eat faster with greater comfort.
FASTEETH helps .you laugh and speak
more clearly, conﬁdently. FASTEE‘IH
checks “plate odor" (denture breath).‘ .
At drug counters everywhere.

 

PAGE 17

 




THE CONSERVATION CORNER w A BRIEF REPORT

In January 1964 we set up in the Main Hall of our Library a
"Conservation Corner" displayo This display; a year lcng project; was
designed to bring to the attention of our Library patrons as many aspects
of Conservation and Humane Education as we could cover in a twelvewmonth
,periodo We planned to change the diaplay every twe er three weekso The
prOject has gone ahead as planned and has aroused considerable interesto
Unfortunately the end will come before the year is up because construction
on the new addition to our Library will begin in January and one of the
departments which will be disrupted by the building program will have to
make its home in the Main Hallo

Tepics used for the display include They Face Extinction; Humane
Trapping; The Web of Life; We Make Music toe; Reptiles and Amphibians - Let
them Live; Wildflowers w Enjoy them; Protect them; Obituary of the Harp Seals;
Keep our Homes Clean (Pollution); Canadian Audubcn Society; Parks, Our Wild
Heritage; Trees9 Keystone of our Environment; World Animal Day; Save the
World“s Wildlife (World Wildlife Fund); EEElEEEEE Bea£§ (Black9 Grizzly,
Polar); The Humane Education Institute of Africa; Conservation Begins at
Home ~ the Byron Bog; Our Feathered Friends and From the Art Library
(Paintings and Sierra Club books)o

 

 

 

 

 

 

One display; an important one on ngggg has been held over until
January because we are expecting Dre Pimlott to visit London in January to
talk about Wolves. Because of our building program we are not sure where
this display will go but space must be made for it somewhere at that timeo

We regret that this display will be the last one in our Conservation project.

We are very grateful for the interest so many organizations and
individual peOple have shown in the Conservation Cornero We could never
have carried the project on for so many months if we had not had the
encouragement and the materials freely offered to uso We hesitate to list
them lest we leave some out but we make the attempt because it is encouraging

to know that so many were willing to helpu

Abitibi Power and Paper Company
Animal Defence League of Canada
Beauty Without Cruelty (Canada)
Ste Maurice Valley Chronicle
Canadian Audubon Society
CJOH TV
CKCO TV
The Kindness Club
Rattray Estate Project
London Humane Society
Alfred Ao Knopf; Inco
Collier MacMillan Canada Ltdo
World Wildlife Fund
Ontario Humane Society
The Star Weekly
Animals Magazine
University of Western Ontario
a Department of Zoology

The American Humane Association

Animal Welfare Institute

Beauty Without Cruelty (England)

Royal Bank of Canada

Canadian Broadcasting Corporation

Canadian Forestry Association

The Globe and Mail

Jenkins Hardware & Seed Store - London

Macllwriath Ornithological Club

Humane Education Institute of Africa

McClelland and Stewart Publishers

Department of Forestry (Federal)

Richardson9 Bond and Wright Ltdo

The Halifax Herald Limited

University of Toronto Press

The Lawson Tait Memorial Trusts
(Canadian Branch)

The Federation of Ontario Naturalists

 




Canadian Federation of Humane Canadian Amphibian and Reptile
Societies Conservation Society

Canadian Association for Humane Universities Federation for
Trapping Animal Welfare (England)

S.J. Reginald Saunders Co. Ltd. Canadian Wildlife Federation Inc.

‘Society for Animal Protective Ontario Department of Lands and
Legislation Forests

Department of Northern Affairs - Fish and Wildlife Branch
& Natural Resources (Federal) - Forest Protection Division
~ National Parks Branch ~ Conservation Authorities Branch
- Canadian Wildlife Service - Operations Branch

The list of individuals would be even longer. It would include many of

the Library staff and public. It would include at least one person from
each of the organizations listed. We thank them all and wish that their
names could all be listed in this report. While this is impossible, we
should like to mention a few who have contributed to this project on their
own and who should be thanked personally. They include Dr. Douglas Pimlott
of the University of Toronto Zoology Department; Mrs. H.J. Flemming, New
Brunswick; Miss F. MacGregor, Vancouver; Mrs. Joan Lamb, Nova Scotia;

Mrs. Joyce Lambert, Toronto; Rev. Foster Hilliard, Toronto; Rev. George
Slater of Byron United Church, London; Dr. Wm. Judd of the University of
Western Ontario Zoology Department, London; and Dr. Arthur Phelphs, Kingston.

It has been a pleasure to work with so many organizations and
individual peOple concerned about conservation and humane education. It
is encouraging to know that there are so many who believe that we would
be poorer in a world consisting solely of factories, housing develOpments
and parking lots. Our world would be a much less beautiful one if our
forests and streams disappeared and a much lonelier one if our fellow
living creatures vanished and we were left by ourselves in space.

(Mrs.) Gladys Abbott,
Head, Adult Services Division,
November 12, 1964. London Public Library and Art Museum,
London, Ontario.

 




3,
. i ’ ' /

‘

THE CONSERVATION‘CORMER - A BRIEF REPORT

In January 1964 we set up in the Main Hall of our Library a
"Conservation Corner" display. This display9 a year long project; was
designed to bring to the attention of our Library patrons as many aspects
of Conservation and Humane Education as we could cover in a twelveumonth
period. We planned to change the display every two or three weeks. The
project has gone ahead as planned and has aroused considerable interest.
Unfortunately the end will come before the year is up because construction
on the new addition to our Library will begin in January and one of the
departments which will be disrupted by the building program will have to
make its home in the Main Hall.

Topics used for the display include They Face Extinction; Humane
Trapping; The Web of Life; We Make Music too; Reptiles and Amphibians - Let
them Live; Wildflowers ~ Enjoy them. Protect them;9bituary of the Harp Seals;
Keep our Homes Clean (Pollution); Canadian Audubon Society; Parks, Our Wild
Heritage; Trees, Keystone of our EnVironment; World Animal Day; Save the
World's Wildlife (World Wildlife Fund)° The Three Beans (Black9 Grizzly,
Polar); The Humane Education Institute of Africa; Conservation Begins at
Home - the Byron Bog; Our Feathered Friends and From the Art Library
(Paintings and Sierra Club books).

 

 

 

One display, an important one on ngygs has been held over until
January because we are expecting Dr. Pimlott to visit London in January to
talk about Wolves. Because of our building program we are not sure where
this display will go but space must be made for it somewhere at that time.
We regret that this display will be the last one in our Conservation project.

We are very grateful for the interest so many organizations and
individual peOple have shown in the Conservation Corner. We could never
have carried the project on for so many months if we had not had the
encouragement and the materials freely offered to us. We hesitate to list
them lest we leave some out but we make the attempt because it is encouraging

to know that so many were willing to help.

Abitibi Power and Paper Company
Animal Defence League of Canada
Beauty Without Cruelty (Canada)
St. Maurice Valley Chronicle
Canadian Audubon Society
CJOH TV
CKCO TV
The Kindness Club
Rattray Estate Project
London Humane Society
Alfred A. KnOpf; Inc.
Collier MacMillan Canada Ltd.
World Wildlife Fund
Ontario Humane Society
The Star Weekly
Animals Magazine
University of Western Ontario
- Department of Zoology

The American Humane Association

jAnimal Welfare Institute

Beauty Without Cruelty (England)

Royal Bank of Canada

Canadian Broadcasting Corporation

Canadian Forestry Association

The Globe and Mail

Jenkins Hardware & Seed Store - London

MacIlwriath Ornithological Club

Humane Education Institute of Africa

McClelland and Stewart Publishers

Department of Forestry (Federal)

Richardson; Bond and Wright Ltd.

The Halifax Herald Limited

University of Toronto Press

The Lawson Tait Memorial Trusts
(Canadian Branch)

The Federation of Ontario Naturalists

 




Canadian Federation of Humane Canadian Amphibian and Reptile
Societies Conservation Society

Canadian Association for Humane Universities Federation for
Trapping Animal Welfare (England)

S.J. Reginald Saunders Coo Ltdo Canadian Wildlife Federation Inco

Society for Animal Protective Ontario Department of Lands and
Legislation Forests

Department of Northern Affairs - Fish and Wildlife Branch
& Natural Resources (Federal) - Forest Protection Division
~ National Parks Branch a Conservation Authorities Branch
a Canadian Wildlife Service ~ Operations Branch

The list of individuals would be even longer, It would include many of

the Library staff and public, It would include at least one person from
each of the organizations listedo We thank them all and wish that their
names could all be listed in this report. While this is impossible, we
should like to mention a few who have contributed to this project on their
own and who should be thanked personally. They include Dro Douglas Pimlott
of the University of Toronto Zoology Department; Mrso H.Jo Flemming, New
Brunswick; Miss F. MacGregor, Vancouver; Mrs. Joan Lamb, Nova Scotia;

Mrs. Joyce Lambert, Toronto; Rev. Foster Hilliard, Toronto; Revo George
Slater of Byron United Church, London; Dr. Wm. Judd of the University of
Western Ontario Zoology Department, London; and Dro Arthur Phelphs, Kingstono

It has been a pleasure to work with so many organizations and
individual people concerned about conservation and humane educationo It
is encouraging to know that there are so many who believe that we would
be poorer in a world consisting solely of factories, housing developments
and parking lots. Our world would be a much less beautiful one if our
forests and streams disappeared and a much lonelier one if our fellow
living creatures vanished and we were left by ourselves in space°

(Mrso) Gladys Abbott,
Head, Adult Services Division,
November 12, 1964. London Public Library and Art Museum,
London, Ontario.

 




TERRE HAUTE HUMANE SOCIETY

INCORPORATED

TE RRE HAUTE, INDIANA

December 14, 196A

Miss Alexandra Peschka
Executive Secretary
Animals welfare Institute
22 East 17th Street

New York 3, New York

Dear Miss Feschka:

Thank you for your letter of December lO wherein you
advised that the additional 26 copies of "First Aid and
Care of Small Animals" will be forwarded.

Evidently my letter dated November 5 in which I listed

the materials wanted and stated my address was lost.

The letter yeu have which is dated November 5 is dated in
error and should have been dated November 23. I suppose

that l had the original date in mind. I registered my last
mail as l was afraid you had not received my previous request.
You have always replied so promptly.

Dr. Hogiis the Director of the Science Department at the

Indiana State Colleqe and is serving on our Education Committee.
He thinks these booklets are very good. we are placing them

in the hands of all Science and Biology teachers in the Vigo
County School Corporation.

1 think "Good Kind Lion" is very well done and would like to
make it available to all the schools. How much time should
be allowed for receiving it if this is ever done?

Many thanks for your help. I will expect your invoice.

Sincerely,

Mrs. Russell Peterson, Chairman
Edueation Committee
Terre Haute Humane Society, Inc.

Res. 47A3 Wabash Avenue
Terre Haute, lndiana

Promote Kindness Prevent Cruelty

 




For more information on helping small animals and birds in distress, you can read
the.AWI manual, Egret.Aid and Care g£_3mall.Animals, a copy of which will be sent free

on request to all Junior Members.

Author of First Aid and Care of Small
Animals is Ernest P. Walker, who served for
many years as Assistant Director of the
National Zoological Park, where the animals
were his friends. Here is a picture of Dr.
walker with some special friends.

Sometimes animals in zoos are desperately in need of help. Last summer in
Santa Domingo, one of the.ﬁnimal Welfare Institute's best workers was responsible
for saving the animals during the revolution. Here is the story:

so that we may inform other Junior MeMbers. You play an important role in helping
promote GOOD treatment of animals by setting a GOOD example for others, and your

kindness is appreciated'

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

10 “TH-“THURS" JUNE3, 1965 11355211152125 (ailment

ZOO SURVIVES REVOLUTION

 

Amerlcan Dog Food
Saved Dominican Lion

Exclusive to The Times from the Chicago Daily News

’ SANTO DOMINGO—Dun?

ing a revolution, nobody
thinks about the animals in
the zoo.

, It” was that way here.
- When the country explOded
in a bitter revolution six
weeks ago, the workers who
feed the animals stayed
home, like eVeryone else
who wasn't fighting.

But one woman began to
wOrry. "I just had the feel-
ing that in all the exﬁtement
and horror, the animals
would be forgotten," said
Mrs. Barton Connett, whose

husband is deputy chief of.
mission in the US. Embassy

here.

Three days after the revo-
lution started, Mrs. Connett,
a petite, pretty woman who
generally cares for only two
Siamese cats and a Dach-
Sund and her husband, Wil-

 

liam, went over to the Zoolo-'

gical and Botanical Garden
of Santo Domingo.

Bullets Outside

Outside on the streets, bul-
lets were still ricocheting off
the buildings in this old Spa-
nish city. But in the hand-
some trOpical garden and
zoo, there was quiet.

"If I live to be 100 years
old, I'll never forget it, " she
said. "There was not a per-L
son in the place The men-
keys were putting their
hands through the cages for
food.

"The elephant had his
trunk hung 0Ver the fence,
looking for food. ' There
wasn't a bit of water. The
peacocks and the animals
that were loose, like the bur-
ros, followed us around, beg-

ing.

"I had gone with a friend,
and we went around the gar-
. den taking branches off the

 

 

said an armed forces spokes—
man. "The men weren't or-
dered to do this. They did it.
of their own accord."

Once the zoo workers
started coming back and tak-
ing over again, the Alliance
for Progress gave $1,525 to
buy food for the animals.

Mrs. Connett, typical of
many of the Americans here
and of US. soldiers, then
turned her attention to work-
ing with the wounded child-
ren in the children's hospital.

 

 

 

_ trees and feeding them to;

some of the animals. " .

She went home and got all
the dog food she had in the
house, then went to friends'
houses and began shaking
the mangoes off their trees.
She collected saltine crack:
ers, raisins and chicken.

The parrot and the lion got
dog food. Other animals got
assorted delicacies.

But the chore of feeding
1,200 animals became over-
whelming, so she contacted
the 82nd Airborne Divison
and the marines. Both took
turns getting food, feeding
the animals and cleaning the
pens of the animals.

"Neither wanted to see the
. animalshand bird's suffer,'[

~___
‘k.

 

Today the zoo is Working
again and its director, Ga-
briel Baez, said that all is
Well.

, _._..__.__

 

 

 




For more information on helping small animals and birds in distress, you can read
W, a copy of which will be sent free
on request to all Junior Members.

- fr , 1 . _ : . m7
' as Author of First Aid and Care of Small (g 4%; _ , f ‘7 ,
905 Animals is Ernest P. Walker, who served for é” Ag?” Ikdf’M Mgfg w
; many years as Assistant Director of the £5? 2 1
’ é National Zoological Park, where the animals ' '
were his friends. Here is a picture of Dr.
é» Walker with some special friends.

gr
7.
g;
.
.ﬁ,
:1
a,
,

S Sometimes animals in zoos are desperately in need of help. This summer in
Santa Domingo, one of the Animal Welfare Institute's best workers was respnnsible
for saving the animals during the revolution. Here is the story:

1% g§ gags; FM :91) about the animals you have helped when you found them in distress
so that we may inform other Junior Members. You play an important role in helping

' promote GOOD treatment of animals by setting a GOOD example for others, and your
kindness is appreciated!

 




