”(the Scout ano Guibe Series.

.No. 3.—THE DOG.

Wﬁai’ everg $00M” oﬁout’cl Whom.

MOST Scouts own a dog, and the affection between this good
pal and his master is mutual. We must, however, bear in mind
the needs of the dog and his proper treatment.

The Scout likes good wholesome food and enough of it, he likes
clean drinking water when he is thirsty, and he is fond of long
walks, and, lastly, he likes a dry comfortable bed at night.

Food, drink, exercise, bed—and his dog likes these four good
things just as much as his master does. They make for health
and happiness.

The Dog’s Food.

He needs a varied diet just as we do, and it should consist of
one-third vegetabl’esyone-third meat or ﬁsh, and one—third meal or
dog biscuits. For breakfast, which should be light, one or two
dog biscuits should be given according to the dog’s size. And for
his second meal, which is also his last one, about 6 p.m., he should
be allowed to eat as much as he wants of the mixed diet as above.

His Drinking Water.

This should be placed where he can get it day or night. It
should be in a dish that is ‘too heavy to upset. Every morning
this dish should be cleaned and ﬁlled with fresh water.

His Bed.

If he sleeps in a kennel it should be water-tight, sides and roof,
and should have a good bed of clean, dry straw, renewed every
week. The roof should lift off for cleaning it out, and the door
should be at the side, not at the end, so that he can get out of
the wind when he enters, which is impossible if the opening is at
the end. The kennel should be raised on four bricks to allow a
current of air to pass under it and keep it dry.

If he sleeps in the house he should have his own basket or
chair with comfortable blankets spread inside. This should be
placed in a room and not in a draughty passage. Dogs can stand
cold, but not damp or draughts.

If he is fastened to his kennel at night he should have a long
Chain, or, better still, he should be ﬁxed with a wire and post. ‘

 




 

2

This will give him liberty of a kind as he runs up and down
the length of the wire. Any handy Scout—and they are all handy
~——-ca11 ﬁx up a wire and post for a dog. It is far better than
being chained, for a chained dog is neither healthy 1101‘ happy.

T he Scout s dog will not be chained up, because every Scout is

‘a friend of animals,’ but pe1haps he may know of a poor
chained dog that he can help by giving him a daily run or by
ﬁxing up the wi1 e and post.

The Dog’s Exercise.

A good walk 1s the best f01111 of exe1cise f01 dogs and for boys,
and as so many dangers beset the 1oads the Scout should take
with him a lead. The dog’ s collar should have eng1aved on it the
master' s name and addiess. 'lhis will be done for Sixpence
at the shop whe1e the collar is pu1chased. The present law
states that all dogs in the roads should wear collars bearing
address.

The lead should be put 011 wheneve1 theie is much t1 afﬁc to
pass through, and again if ﬂocks of sheep or poultry are passed,
or in woods where the1e is game.

The dog may be so well t1 a111ed that he would never chase
sheep or poultry or game, or he may be young and untrained,
and then the lead is a good check.

It is good to lead him past the things he wishes to chase, and to
say ﬁrmly N0 each time he tries to make a dash.

The lead will pull him up short and so help in the training.

Sometimes a dog has a disposition to ﬁght other dogs, and
this getshis master into trouble. Here again the lead can be
most useful in leading him out of temptation.

So these walks round the dog’s home not only teach the dog
whe1e he lives if ever he Gets lost, but they a1e grand oppor
tunities for training and teaching good ways and habits. In
t1aining a dog the Scout will give only short words of command.
One of the ﬁrst words a dog must lea111 is “No,” and others are
“Lie down,” “ Come here,” “ Go back,” “ T0 heel,” etc.

In crossing a road, “ Over ” should be’the command, and constant
practice in this 011 a quiet 10ad must continue till the dog obeys
instantly and C1osses to safety and the other side will; his master.
Instant obedience may save his life—110 linge1i11g 111 the path of
dange1 to smell or sta1e at what he may meet.

Grooming a Dog.

The Scout naturally wishes to be proud of his dog, and should
comb and brush his coat each day. A bath in the summer IS
good once in two weeks, and in the winter once in six weeks.




3

If the dog has a short coat and is well brushed each day he
may do quite well without bathing. . There are various powders
sold at a good Chemist’s which can be brushed into his coat, and
these will keep him free from insects.

The Dog’s Playthings.

It is right and natural for young dogs to tear up and bite paper,
wood, leather, etc. It is not wickedness which makes them
destroy. It is exercise for teeth and muscles, and proper toys
should be provided. A ball is excellent and should be hard.
D g’s balls can be bought at harness and leather shops, and will
1 a lifetime. The ordinary ball gets destroyed at once.

This will give him exercise on wet days, and when Scout and
dog and ball get together you may expect to see real gymnastics.

A very hard bone is good and keeps a dog’s teeth clean. But
it should not be allowed to get dirty and unwholesome, so see that
the bone is burnt after a little use. Stones spoil a dog’s teeth and
should not be allowed. Sticks of wood can be used to teach
the dog to fetch and carry.

Never let a dog play with sirz'ng. It is likely to get down his
throat, especially if he is only a puppy, It will make him very ill
and may kill hin . ' I ' ’

Sick Dogs.

Signs of illness are shown when the dog mopes, refuses to eat,
shows no joy in a walk, gets into dark corners and lies with his
head on his paws, and is often extremelyirritable, as we are when
we suffer pain. It is wise to get skilled advice at once: take him
in good time to a vet or to a clinic for animals. Give him the
opportunity of eating couch grass. He will ﬁnd it for himself in
the hedges, and if you have none in your garden plant some
in one corner for him. It grows easily, and dogs will eat it every
day if they can get it, even when well, for it keeps them ﬁt.

Other People’s Dogs.

Lost dogs, run-over dogs, stray dogs, chained dogs—~what can
the Scout do for them? Can he catch the lost dog by kindness
and take him to the police station, where they will ﬁnd his owners
if they can .9 Can he throw an old coat or cloth round the injured
dog and take him to the nearest clinic ? Can he offer to give the
chained dog daily exercise or make him a wire and post run?
Can he ﬁnd the stray (usually very starved and thin) a home, or
take him to the police station where he will be given a painless
death ?

 

 




 

The Wire and Post.

 

By kind permission of the Canine Defence League.

Instructions.

Fix running wires to post, or to staples in wall, or to trees. A
hundred feet is a good length.

Have a swivel 011 the chain, so that it runs easily along wiie.

Put wire high enough 011 posts to allow dog to pass underneath,
but not so high that dog can hang himself.

Chain to be long) enough to enable dog to lie in his kennel in
comfort

Chain to be long and light. A heavy chain is cruelty.

To prevent dog winding his Chain round the posts make a
“ stop” six feet f1 om each end of wire with a piece of wood
and secui e in position by 1 unning wire through holes in wood.

WHAT EVERY SCOUT AND GUIDE SHOULD
KNOW ABOUT
1. HORSES,
2. CATS,
3. D005,
4. BIRDS, etc.
Leaﬂets issued by themmls. szend, York House, Pmtugal
St1eet,L (3,1135%? (1m ‘ P116?“Q each. 50 for 1s

\ -.
§\’ PRINTED IN GREAT 1112111111»: 3
C‘HliR

 




