 

 

 
 

Science Does Not Support Acceptance
of the Revised Management Procedure
U.S. Panel Says RMP Seriously Flawed

by Rick Spill and Jennifer Coates
for the
Animal Welfare Institute

Lost in the political considerations of "provisional" adoption of the Revised Management Procedure (RMP)
is whether or not the algorithm itself is scientifically valid. An independent review panel was convened in
October of 1993 by the US. National Marine Fisheries Service to answer this very question. They
determined that before the RMP can be applied to the calculation of any real whaling quotas, a
comprehensive range of additional implementation trials must be conducted, with robust results
achieved in each one. The findings of the panel indicate that signiﬁcant improvement is necessary in the
areas of population estimates, catch reports, stock identification, robustness, model constructs, and research
and management.

Elements at the core of this RMP have been found deficient. It is nonsensical to ratify "provisionally" or "in
principle" what cannot be applied in practice. Such a veneer of legitimacy would present a false and
dangerous impression of scientific soundness and readiness for use where none exists. The procedure and
its inherent weaknesses must not be propelled further along the path leading to a resumption of commercial
whaling.

Population Estimates

To function adequately, the RMP requires reliable information regarding the current size of whale
populations. The US. review panel found that the RMP’s performance "may be degraded" by bias in these
estimates. The techniques currently used to survey whale populations are known to be positively biased by
such well-documented factors as the ship-seekin g behavior of whales, multiple counting of individuals, and
the mis—counting of whales outside of the survey boundaries or of different species. Detailed minimum
standards for the design, execution, and use of surveys and associated statistical methods must be generated
and tested by the IWC. For instance, a new rigorous survey, and not a simple recalculation using the
original data, is required to substantiate the highly questionable Norwegian estimate of 86,736 North
East Atlantic minkes.

Catch Reports

The RMP also relies on accurate data regarding historical whale catches. Such information, essential for
implementation of the RMP, has been shown to be notoriously inaccurate and incomplete. Recently, it has
come to light that the former Soviet Union under-reported their catches of some species of whales by as much
as 90%! Under-reportin g of the 1984 Norwegian hunt has been verified at 30%; what this "tip of the iceberg"
actually represents is still unknown. There is little reason to believe that other accountings have been or will
be any more reliable. To ascertain the global effects of these deceptive practices, all historical catch
records from whaling countries must be verified by the IWC.

Stock Identiﬁcation
The stock identities of Southern Hemisphere and North East Atlantic minke whales initially targeted for
exploitation under the RMP are dangerously uncertain. In 1991, the IWC's Scientiﬁc Committee stated that

  




the success of a management procedure was largely dependent on its ”ability to cope with uncertainty about
stock identity." In 1992, they decided the "existing stock definitions and boundaries did not provide an
adequate basis for [stock] assessments." The Sub—Committee on Management Procedures observed that
when two stocks were managed as one "with only one of the two true stocks being depleted... the exploited
stock [was] extinguished in several trials." The Fourth Workshop on Management Procedures recom—
mended steps "to prevent or control the concentration of catching on area boundaries to avoid the risk of
extinguishing mis-identiﬁed stocks."

The RMP is incapable of handling this ambiguity and the panel found that its implementation under these
circumstances could lead to the extinction of "small, genetically distinct subpopulations." Genetically
separate whale stocks and subpopulations must be delineated accurately, consistently, and completely
before any further action on the RMP is taken.

Robustness

The Scientific Committee has failed to adhere to its own stated principle that the development of any
management procedure must include the study of the effects of environmental changes on whales and the
incorporation of the results into the ultimate RMP. This RMP ignores the potential cumulative effects, within
and across years of, for example, devastating natural catastrophes and deadly, human-related ecological
accidents occurring simultaneously. This is increasingly likely, given the overwhelming evidence of
multiple causes of mortality, especially environmental threats. A wide range of additional implementa-
tion trials must be completed, as called for by the peer review panel.

Model Constructs

The RMP is based on the outdated, sin gle- species approaches of carrying capacity and maximum sustainable
yield. The panel observed that effective cetacean management cannot be achieved through the use of a
procedure, such as the RMP, that does not view whales as integral parts of complex, interactive ecosystems.
The following recommendation by the US Marine Mammal Commission should be adopted: the IWC
should " maintain the ecological relationships between cetacean populations and other components of
the ecosystems of which they are a part."

Research and Management

Contrary to popular belief, the RMP is not tamper proof. According to Dr. Sidney Holt, "...the procedure
as a whole is not objective. At every stage the numbers that emerge will depend on the relative inﬂuences
of scientists..." Also, the RMP applies a uniform approach to all whale stocks, regardless of their depletion
status or relative abundance. Under certain conditions, it might allow hunting of a protected stock. The US.
panel found that "there is a danger that nothing will be learned from the application of the proposed RMP
that will be useful in improving its future performance or in devising another management procedure should
it fail altogether. "

The RMP has been measured against purely scientific criteria by independent peer raters during an objective
review process, and found wanting. Further efforts to gain approval of the RMP should be unequivo-
cally opposed as extremely short-sighted and destructive.

For information contact:
Rick Spill, Westin Regina Resort, Puerto Vallarta, Mexico 52-322-11100
Jennifer Coates, Animal Welfare Institute, Washington, DC. 202-337-2332

 




IWC/46/OS/AWI

Science Does Not Support Acceptance
of the

Revised Management Procedure

U.S. Panel Says RMP Seriously Flawed

by

Rick Spill and Jennifer Coates

Opening Statement of the Animal Welfare Institute

to the 46th Annual Meeting of the International Whaling Commission

May 23, 1994

For infonnation contact:
Rick Spill, Westin Regina Resort, Puerto Vallarta, Mexico 52-322-11100
Jennifer Coates, Animal Welfare Institute, Washington, DC. 202-337-2332

 




 
 

Science Does Not Support Acceptance of the Revised Management Procedure
U.S. Panel Says RMP Seriously Flawed

 
   
  

  

During October of 1993, the United States National Marine Fisheries Service (NMFS) established an
independent scientiﬁc peer review panel to evaluate the Revised Management Procedure (RMP) formulated
under the auspices of the International Whaling Commission (IWC).

 
   
  
 
   
  
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
 

The "Report of the NMFS Review of the Revised Management Procedure for Commercial Whaling" was
released in January of 1994. This report constitutes the consensus View of the panel, composed of North
American scientists. The panelists determined that before the RMP can be applied to the calculation of
any real whaling quotas, a comprehensive range of additional implementation trials must be
conducted, with robust results achieved in each one.

The RMP has not been fully developed or tested enough to be used in the real world. It cannot presently
ensure that the risk of stock extinction would not be seriously increased by the exploitation of living whales.
The supplemental safeguards and robustness tests called for by the panel will require additional time and
resources which must be invested before it is accepted further. Elements at the core of the RMP have been
found deﬁcient; the procedure and its inherent weaknesses must not be propelled further along the
path leading to a resumption of commercial whaling.

It is nonsensical to ratify "provisionally" or "in principle" what cannot be applied in practice. Such
a veneer of legitimacy would present a false and dangerous impression of scientific soundness and readiness
for use where none exists. Granting the unfinished RMP further acceptance now, as part of a token
conciliatory gesture, would send misleading signals to those anxious to precipitate the resumption of
commercial whaling. Further efforts to gain approval of the RMP should be unequivocally opposed
as extremely short-sighted and destructive.

The RMP has been measured against purely scientific criteria by independent peer raters during an objective
review process, and found wanting. The findings of the panel indicate that significant work and
improvements are necessary in the following areas: population estimates, catch reports, stock identification,
robustness, model constructs, and research and management.

1. Population Estimates

The RMP is based on two main data sets—direct population abundance estimates (discussed in this section)
and total known catches/removals (reviewed in section 11). Information from whale sighting surveys is quite
frequently ﬂawed. Population abundance estimation generally includes uncertain numbers, faulty method-
ology, and defective implementation procedures.

 
   
   
   
 

A. Panel Finds Many Pivotal Whale Abundance Measurement Issues Still in Need of Resolution

  
   
 

The panel determined that:

othe catch limit algorithm’s (CLA) performance "may be degraded by bias in abundance" estimates

  
 

0 "current speciﬁcations of the RMP do not ensure that data will be gathered that will improve
abundance estimates”

    
  

oCLA performance was degraded "when coefficients of variation for abundance were estimated
inaccurately"

 
   




o the Scientific Committee should "enforce high data quality standards and guard against bias"

0 ancillary data should be collected as part of directed sighting surveys ”that may significantly reduce
the coefficient of variation and bias in these estimates " and that "risks to populations will be reduced
if the coefﬁcients of variation are constant and the probability of a positive bias is reduced"

0 "standards for reporting and analysis of these data should be developed by the Scientific Committee
to aid in whale range determination, assist in interpreting whether whale habitat has had similar
coverage between surveys and to improve survey transect design.”

B. Population Abundance Estimates Inadequate

In order for the RMP to function adequately, reliable data concerning the current size of whale populations
must be employed. Modern survey methods and associated statistical procedures have proven
incapable of producing accurate and precise results when faced with the realities of counting whales.

The U.S. Marine Mammal Commission found that existing information on whale stocks is "inadequate for
making adequate determinations concerning their status and trends." (U .S. MMC, 1991a) "Simplistic and
unrealistic models" have frequently been used (Hiby and Hammond, 1989) and concurrent abundance
estimates for a stock in one area can be "wildly divergent. " (Holt, 1993a) (Chapman et al., 1982) While total
population figures can appear high, "the status of individual stocks may be very precarious." (Talbot, 1974)
Abundance estimates calculated each year by the Scientific Committee "tend to fluctuate, even when derived
from the same data" (Klinowska, 1991) Interpreting apparent differences in survey results from two years has
been quite problematic "even when a consistent methodology had been used in both surveys. " (IWC, 1990a)

A U.S. Department of Commerce study highlighted the need to "improve current population... estimates."
(1991) It concluded that "new census surveys should be designed and implemented to estimate population
abundance and trends." (U.S. Dept. of Commerce,1991) Analyzing sighting surveys is difficult "as much
effort is expended in justifying assumptions or explaining erratic data points.” (Horwood, 1990) The most
commonly used method of detecting whales, visual counting, provides data "which can be described as
'coarse grained‘ in terms of the reliability of the estimates so obtained... In practice the results rarely satisfy
the professional statistician." (Gaskin, 1982) (Gulland, 1988) (Allen, 1980) Holt highlights "the weakness
of our observational methods (counting whales with plus or minus 40-50% error at best.)" (Holt, 1993a)

The confidence limits of the sighting method are "very wide, says Holt—so wide that a population could be
a third of its original size before the change was recognized.” (Collins, 1985) The Sub-Committee on Minke
Whales has determined that the sighting methodology is "too variable to place any confidence in its being
able to detect any but major changes in abundance.” (IW C, 1979) The Scientific Committee has
acknowledged wide data variations in its analyses of Southern Hemisphere minke whales. In Southern
Hemisphere Management Area IH, the population has been estimated at between 52,000 and 150,000, for
an overall variance of 288%, with 95% confidence intervals (which means that there is still a 5% chance that
the population is outside these bounds).

Dr. Fujiwara Eiji, head of the Institute for Environmental Science and Culture and the Elsa Conservancy in
Japan, states that "there is no scientific proof of whale numbers." Horwood found that "statistics and
inference have to be relied upon to a great degree," (1981) Talbot concluded that "these statistics are based
on gross assumptions, which may lead to gross uncertainties, and the link between the resultant figures and
reality may be tenuous indeed." (Davis, 1985)

The IWC's Scientific Committee noted the need for "an examination of management schemes in the light
of the ability to estimate population sizes and parameters, taking into account the inevitable uncertainty in

2

 




such estimates.” (IWC, 1989) The enormous variation in the accuracy of abundance estimates for species
and stocks of whales is widely recognized. (Allen, 1980) (Schmidt, 1994) (Buckland and Duff, 1989)
(Talbot, 1974)

1. The Impact of Bias

The RMP does not adequately account for the likelihood of a strong positive bias in abundance
estimates used to calculate catch quotas. Most conventional population abundance estimation methods
”are biased to a largely unknown degree" (Eberhardt, 1978) and appreciation for the "ways in which various
factors interact to create bias (and variability) is inadequate." (Fowler er al., 1982)

Hiby and Ward found that "serious problems have been encountered in the application of line transect
sampling to census large whale populations. " (Hiby and Ward, 1986) There are so many problems with line
transect surveys that they can supply "indices of relative abundance" at best. (Ramsey et al., 1986) Standard
line transect estimation is "not robust to departures from the assumption that the animals do not move in
response to the observer before detection, and that all animals on or near the track line are detected."
(Buckland and Turnock, 1992) The "effect of animal movement is to distort the detection probability
function." (Zahl, App.—SC/4l/SH Mi8)

The assumption that targets do not move prior to being sighted is used in the formulation of the density
estimate. Whales obviously violate this assumption which leads to an increase in sighting rate and an upward
bias in the subsequent estimate of mean density. (Hiby, 1982) The Report of the Sightings Subgroup
"indicated that the biasing effect may be larger than previously thought.” (IWC, 1982)

The ship-seeking behavior of minke whales in the North Atlantic "would incorrectly inﬂate estimates of
density.” (Horwood, 1990) If a ship stops periodically, "minke whales in the area will come to it." (Winn
and Perkins, 1976) No RMP-related experiments have been conducted to estimate the consequences of
minke whales moving towards survey vessels on the trackline—"despite the fact that there is much ad hoc
evidence that they do react, and that it is not difficult to imagine suitable experiments." (Holt, 1994a)

The Scientific Committee has expressed concern that "errors in estimated radial distances... could cause
serious overestimation of abundance in the Norwegian surveys.” (IWC, 1991a) Additional concern was
expressed in the North Atlantic Minke Whale Sub Committee "that the level of bias in estimated sightings
distances... would cause potentially serious overestimation of abundance." (IW C, 1991b) Additionally,
measuring distance to the nearest part of a school instead of the center ”would produce an upward bias.”
(Klinowska, 1991)

Cooke warns that "the CLA is known to be sensitive to bias in the estimates of abundance, and does not appear
to be able internally to estimate the degree of bias in the estimates of abundance to a degree that would allow
for automatic correction. (Cooke, personal communication, March 1992, Copenhagen)" (Smith et (11., SC/
44/025)

2. The Added Effect of Multiple Counts

When counting whales, it is often difficult to clearly establish transect boundaries, and some objects that
actually fall outside of these boundaries ”are mistakenly counted.” (Burnham and Anderson, 1984) The
relative speed (vessel/target speed ratio) can also "input a positive bias to density estimates due to counting
the same individuals more than once." (Scott and Winn, 1980)

Additionally, "whales in a pod... may well split off to surface at considerable distance from other members
of the group and then return to surface nearby. Such separate surfacings may give rise to extra sightings.”

 




(Hiby and Lovell, SC/42/SH Mi29) The "Report of the Ad Hoc Working Group on g(0)" noted that a "much
higher duplicate frequency was found in areas of high whale density than in areas of moderate or low
density." (IWC, 1992a)

"Care must be taken to avoid or correct for possible duplicate sightings of an animal or group," (Best, 1982)
but "there are severe practical problems in identifying duplicate sightings or individual whales. " (Buckland,
1987) The ”Report of the Sub-Committee on Southern Hemisphere Minke Whales" noted that it would be
"extremely difﬁcult to identify duplicate sightings of the same individual in a consistent way." (IWC, 1987)

Identiﬁcation of duplicate sightings, "remains problematic" (Hiby and Hammond, 1989), particularly those
"by independent observers." (Hiby, 1985) The Ad Hoc Working Group on g(0) reports that "this problem
of identifying duplicates is present in all known independent observer experiments, to varying degrees,
especially when the observers are on different vessels." (IWC, 1992a)

The "identification of duplicates in the full is not straightforward or unambiguous and necessarily involves
some degree of subjectivity." (Borchers and Haw, SC/41/SH Mi9) However, "due to the time between
resightings it seems unlikely duplicate sightings can be reliably and consistently identified in the field...
Resightin gs may impart an upward bias in the estimation of density ranging to 20%." (Scott and Winn, 1980)

In the Southern Hemisphere, "when numbers of sightings are so low, misidentiﬁcation of or uncertainty in
species may have a substantial effect on estimates of sighting rates. Total abundance estimates for the whole
Area increase by 18% (Closing Mode) and 23% (Independent Observer Mode) when 'like-minke' sightings
are treated as minke schools. " (IWC, 1986) Minkes may be mistaken for bottlenose whales and pygmy right
whales, and "as observations of free-ranging beaked whales have increased, it has become clear that some
previous reports of minke whales were actually beaked whales." (Leatherwood and Reeves, 1983)

Double and mis-counting during sighting surveys clearly emphasizes the RMP's functional inad-
equacy.

C. Highly Questionable North East Atlantic Minke Data Pushed by Norway Should be Summarily
Disregarded

Norway currently claims that there are 86,736 minke whales in the North East Atlantic. This ﬁgure has
never been validated by the Scientiﬁc Committee and does not merit serious consideration.

The figure of 86,736 was a point estimate submitted to the Scientific Committee by Norway. According to Holt:
The number 87,000 is a Norwegian-calculated one; the IWC Scientific Committee agreed to use it for carrying out
computer simulations in testing the RMP. Any number to be used in applying the RMP must be calculated by the
committee, from data available to it, and using approved methods of analysis. None of these stringent conditions had
been met at the time of the 1993 IWC meeting, and it is not yet clear whether they will be met this year.

The number obtained directly from surveys was about 30,000. The Norwegian scientists tripled that by arguin g that two
thirds of the whales present on the ships' tracklines were not seen because they surface infrequently. They produced some
rather shoddy data to 'prove' this, but ignored all other published data on the surfacing rates of minke whales, some of
it from robust techniques such as attaching radio transmitters to whales and following them. They desperately needed
that particular calculation because, you see, if the actual number is as low as 30,000, or even if it is as high as, say, 50,000,
the catch limit, under the RMP rules, would be tiny or zero. (Holt, 1994b)

Norwegian scientists figured that for every whale they saw, there must have been 2.8 that they missed. No
other whale survey done for the IWC makes corrections in this manner. In addition, no attempt was made
to account for the overestimation that occurs because of the commonly known attraction behavior minkes
exhibit toward survey boats (e. g. findings cited in section B1).

 




In 1992, the Scientific Committee analyzed Norwegian data, including the 86,736 estimate. When its
conclusions were made available to Norwegian scientists, they withdrew Norway's request that the IWC
reconsider the "protected stock" classiﬁcation in effect since 1985—before the analysis could be fully
discussed in session.

D. Action Required

Prevailing survey methods and related statistics used to estimate whale abundance are unable to deal with
the fundamentals of whale biology. A new, rigorous survey, and not a simple recalculation using the
original Norwegian data, is required to adequately estimate the abundance of North East Atlantic
minkes. Before any further advancement of the RMP, however informal or non-binding, detailed
minimum standards—With full procedural speciﬁcations—must be generated and ﬁeld tested by the
IWC for the:

1) structure/content/sequence/process of sighting survey design and execution;

2) relevance/congruence/appropriateness/application of analytical and statistical methods in population
abundance estimates (e. g. validity, reliability, freedom from bias, objectivity);

3) qua]ity/quantity/availability/utilization of data and results. Such minimum standards need to encompass
all aspects of sighting survey techniques and findings prior to any additional action on the RMP.

II. Catch Reports
A. Panel Determines Credibility Problems Severely Damage Data

0 According to the panel, the CLA's performance may "be degraded" by under—reportin g in historical
catch records.

B. Documentation of Drastically Flawed Catch Statistics

The RMP must be fed data on historical and current whale catches to calculate new commercial whaling
quotas. Such data, essential for implementation of the RMP, has been shown to be notoriously inaccurate
and incomplete.

Historically, whalers ﬁddled with catch records and deceived the IWC on a regular basis. Soviet whalers
dramatically under-reported the killing of thousands of whales in the 1960s and 1970s by 90% or more. They
also secretly slaughtered many right whales which had been under zero catch limits since the 1930s.

The situation is succinctly presented by Peter James Spielmann in "Soviets Lied for Years About Whale

Killings," published on 21 February 1994 in the San Francisco Chronicle:
Alexey Yablokov, a whale biologist and ecology adviser to President Boris Yeltsin, used declassified Soviet Ministry
of Fisheries records to find that in the 19603, one Soviet factory ship told the whaling commission that it had killed 152
humpback and 156 blue whales.

In fact, the ship had taken 7,207 humpbacks and 1,433 blue whales. It also illegally killed 717 right whales, a species
protected by the whaling commission since the 19303.

Ernst Chemy, a former Soviet Whaler who now directs Russia's Union of Independent Fishery Workers, offered similar
examples.

Scientists aboard the Whaler Sovietskay Rossiya told the Fisheries Ministry that the ship killed 1,568 humpback whales

 




  
   
   
   

  

in the 1961-62 season. But the Soviet Union had told the whaling commission that all four Soviet whaling ﬂeets killed
only 270 humpbacks that year, Chemy said.

In 1963-64, the same ship killed 530 blue whales, but the Soviets told the whaling commission that all four ﬂeets took
only 74 blue whales, he said.

  
 
   
    
  
   
 
   
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
   
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
    

Cherny said the Soviet ﬂeets 'were specially designed and built so the decks could be covered by steam, hiding from the
view of any outside observers the carcasses of protected species.‘

He said that under KGB direction, the fishing ﬂeets used complex codes for radio communications. 'The cipher tables
contained, for example, such concepts as 'foreign aircraft have appeared,‘ 'foreign ﬂeet is in sight,‘ and, most significantly,
'sink the prohibited whales.“

According to Paul Brown in "Soviet Union Illegally Killed Great Whales," published on 12 February 1994
in The Guardian:

.. .the USSR disguised the carcasses of protected whales so they could pass them off as unprotected species. The Japanese
stand accused of acquiescing in the scandal by indulging in what IWC staff call 'Klondiking'—the transferring of whale
meat from Russian to Japanese ships at sea for cash payments. Neither country reported the killing of these whales in
official records.

Reacting to the Russian disclosures, IWC Secretary Ray Gambell said "we knew there was a black hole in
our calculations which did not make sense. Now we know that thousands of whales we thought were
protected have been systematically slaughtered. The enormity of the deception is staggering."

Dr. Roger Payne declared that "these revelations change everything. There was massive organized cheating,
even in the presence of international observers mandated by the IWC. The whalers can clearly not be trusted
and it is no use the IWC trying to sweep this under the carpet and return to business as usual. "

As was previously discussed, Norway has challenged the IWC's decision to classify North East Atlantic
minke whales as "protected stock." At one point Norway "even went so far as to say that the decision was
invalid because it was based on Norwegian catch statistics, which were falsified!" (Holt, 1992a) Rorvik
found that ”Norwegian scientists have consistently expressed their concern over the possibility of under-
reporting of catches... Under—reporting in 1984 was provisionally estimated to be 30% (IWC, 1986, p.81).
(1987)

Most practitioners were shocked at the extent of the Soviet Union's falsification and deception. Given a
veriﬁed level of 30% Norwegian under-reporting of minke whale catches, it is unclear what this "tip of the
iceberg" actually represents!

Baseline figures on the size of pre-exploited populations are calculated from catch data, but "incomplete and
inaccurate historical records make it nearly impossible to establish a baseline from which to assess the
relative health of current populations." (Schmidt, 1994)

Historical catch data has been shown to be ﬂawed. There is little reason to believe that, in the future,
accountings would be any different. Despite the critical importance of obtaining valid and reliable catch
reports, little more than pro forrna attention has been given to this issue. The Scientiﬁc Committee even
found that ”the effects of possible errors in the recording of catches after implementation of the RMP have
not been addressed in simulation trials." (IWC, 19920) The IWC must develop standards and mechanisms
for the reporting and use of catch data in order to enforce its catch limits. (Smith et al., SC/44/025)

The level of the Soviet under—reporting disclosed was extreme, invalidating officially accepted calculations
of whale recovery rates and potential population sizes. Further data on other deceptions of similar magnitude
are expected to be released soon. IWC historical catch records for the past four decades will have to be
revamped, including the known but unreported minke whaling conducted by the Soviet Union.




C. Action Required

To ascertain the global effects of these deceptive practices, all historical catch records from whaling
countries must be veriﬁed by the IWC. If further falsiﬁcations are found, as is expected, then the
impact of all discrepancies must be reconciled. All catch reports must be reworked and all records
must be recalculated before any further IWC recognition is accorded the RMP.

III. Stock Identiﬁcation
A. Panel Concluded Key Shortcomings Seriously Cripple This Pivotal Function

The panel found that:

a "one danger in the implementation of the RMP is that small, genetically distinct subpopulations
within a small management area will be eliminated... elimination of populations is most likely to
occur when a small coastal population, which is relatively easy to catch, is caught in conjunction with
a much larger pelagic population... in such a situation the smaller coastal population would be
eliminated"

0 "although the small management areas in the implementation trials were designed to be the smallest
areas within which the Scientiﬁc Committee felt that a distinct subpopulation could exist, there is no
firm basis for these judgements"

0 "methods for more accurately estimating stock distribution and migration and for stock identiﬁca-
tion" should be explored by the Scientiﬁc Committee

0 there should be a "re-examination of stock structure hypotheses"

o ”a genetic analysis, involving both nuclear and mitochondrial genes, be done on each harvested
whale"

othe Scientific Committee should "develop models to assess the number of samples needed and the
spatial distribution required to be able to have adequate power to address whether or not a genetically
identifiable subpopulation is being eliminated."

B. Documentation of Critical Failures in Stock Identification

The stock identities of Southern Hemisphere and North East Atlantic minke whales initially targeted
for exploitation under the RMP are dangerously uncertain. Southern Hemisphere management areas
"may not correspond to discrete biological stocks." (Doroshenko, 1979) There is "virtually no knowledge
of distinct biological populations for minke whales in the North Atlantic." (Holt, 1993b) The criteria used
to determine the "sub-divisions for North Atlantic multi-stock trials are unclear and, furthermore, the
selections made do not seem to test very stringently the robustness of any of the suggested multi-stock rules
to speciﬁcation errors of stock divisions." (Holt, SC/44/06) Many of the management stocks delineated by
the IWC "may contain all or parts of several genetic stocks, or a single genetic stock may extend over several
management stocks. Furthermore, a genetic stock may be composed of several breeding aggregations with
varying degrees of intermixing." (Best, SC/42/SH Mi8)

Scientific arguments do not convincingly back up current whale stock boundaries. On the contrary, "it has
often been admitted that they were purely set for management convenience." (Lankester, SC/39/012)

 




Lankester determined that "there is considerable uncertainty over the biological identity of whale stocks and
the relationship between biological stocks and management units. No current management unit has a proper
biological foundation. " (Lankester, SC/39/012)

The Scientiﬁc Committee stated that the success of the proposed management procedures "was likely to
depend largely on their ability to cope with uncertainty about stock identity." (IWC, 1991a) The Sub-
Committee on Management Procedures found that "uncertain stock identity remains a very major problem
for the procedures to deal with." (IWC, 1991b)

The Fourth Workshop on Management Procedures noted "the absence of the prospect of a satisfactory
general method for stock identification in the immediate future." (IWC, 1992b) The Sub-Committee on
Management Procedures determined that "of all the screening trials carried out so far, those dealing with
uncertain stock identity have proved to be the most difficult to specify." (IWC, 1991b) The Scientiﬁc
Committee concluded that "it is clear that the Committee has not been able to determine minimum stock
levels for each stock." (IWC, 1991a) The "existing stock definitions and boundaries did not provide an
adequate basis for assessments." (IWC, 19920)

The Third Workshop on Management Procedures found that "all the revised management procedures in their
current forms fail notably for trials where two real stocks are managed as a single stock, but catches are
concentrated so that only one of the real stocks is exploited." (IW C, 1992d) The Sub—Committee on
Management Procedures observed that "in previous trials in which two stocks were managed as if they were
one stock, with only one of the two true stocks being depleted, all procedures had performed very poorly,
with the exploited stock being extinguished in several trials." (IWC, 1991b) The RMP under current
consideration has not been adjusted to improve the "severely degraded performance" (IWC, 1992d) that it
manifested.

Additionally, simulation trials have shown the "undesirability of having ﬁshing occurring on the boundary
of areas." (Smith and Stokes, 1993) The Fourth Workshop on Management Procedures recommended steps

"to prevent or control the concentration of catching on area boundaries to avoid the risk of extinguishing mis-
identified stocks." (IWC, 1992b)

The IWC asked the Scientific Committee to address the development of multi-stock management proce-
dures. The Scientiﬁc Committee determined that the RMP's success would rely greatly on its capacity to
handle uncertainty concerning stock identity. Experienced scientists, including Cooke, have speciﬁcally
maintained that one of the RMP's most troublesome aspects is its problematic performance in the
continuously ambiguous area of stock identity. Yet the multi-stock issue has not been adequately handled
to date. At the Copenhagen meeting, "time constraints" were given as the reason for only conducting two
of the suggested multi—stock trials and avoiding the testing of all suggested multi-stock rules.

C. Action Required

The RMP does not effectively address the issue of multi-stocks and uncertain stock identity. Under
certain conditions, there is an unacceptable risk that this could cause the extinction of individual
stocks. The Scientiﬁc Committee has been unable to determine minimum stock levels. It has
acknowledged that existing stock deﬁnitions and boundaries do not afford an adequate basis for
assessments. Lankester concluded that:

The comprehensive assessment of whale stocks seems the appropriate moment to adhere to repeated calls in the Scientiﬁc
Committee for the application of analyses which take possibilities of erroneous stock boundaries into account. It would
imply that additional analyses be carried out to explore the potential errors involved. Inclusion of safety adjustments,
which depend on probabilities of decline when inferring alternative conditions of stock identity would be the first step
towards this objective. This may ultimately lead to a prevention of over—exploitation due to erroneous stock identities.
(Lankester, SC/39/012)

 




    
 
   
   
   
  
  
   
   
  
  
   
   
   
   
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
    

  

No further action (formal or informal) should be taken on the RMP until genetically separate whale
stocks and subpopulations can be delineated accurately, safely, consistently, and completely.

IV. Robustness
A. Panel Concludes Additional Simulation Testing Required Before RMP Can Be Used
The panel found that:

o "the full range of robustness trials that may be important" had not yet been addressed

0 simulations conducted to date were "not yet sufﬁciently extensive” to gain the panel's "full
confidence"

0 it is necessary "to determine the parameter limits beyond which the CLA fails to perform adequately
in meeting the test standards used. This should be done for combinations of trials as well as for single
trials."

0 the CLA could only be safely used for a short period of time "provided the required protocol of
implementation trials and reviews is followed"

 

o it is necessary that "additional robustness trials be made as part of the implementation process."
B. Discussion of Dangerously Inadequate RMP Robustness

Natural populations "have an inconvenient tendency to ﬂuctuate in response to unpredictable perturbations
in their physical and biological environment.” (May et al., 1978)

It is essential to investigate interactions in systems analyses "by varying more than one variable at a time."
(J effers, 1988) Simultaneous alteration of several of the parameters of the model "will enable the modeler
to detect the effect of interactions between the corresponding changes. Indeed, without tests of these
interactions, the knowledge gained about the sensitivity of the model may be seriously deficient." (Jeffers,
1982)

The Sub-Committee on Management Procedures recognized the necessity of examining "the effects of
simultaneous occurrence of the single factors being examined in each individual trial. While any two factors
by themselves may not cause problems for a management procedure, in combination they may be deadly."
(IWC, 1990b) It also found that "combined deviations from the standard model may cause more trouble for
the procedure than the sum of trouble caused by each one of the deviations... it is primarily the interaction
effects between various factors which are to be investigated." (IW C, 1990b)

One of the trials undergone by the RMP is the effect of an unexpected depletion in population size by 50%
once every 50 years. The second stage screening included one trial with episodic events at irregular intervals
which led to population reduction. The "Report of the Fourth Comprehensive Assessment Workshop on
Management Procedures" indicates that "results from these trials were difficult to interpret." (IWC, 1992b)
Such inconclusive findings cast great doubt on the capacity of the RMP to respond effectively to a viral
epidemic, drastic environmental deterioration such as that threatened by depletion of the ozone layer,
overﬁshin g, pollution, coastal eutrophication, habitat destruction, global warming, entanglement in nets, etc.
This is especially true if such destructive events were to occur more than once in a ﬁfty year period. In fact,
pollutant levels are having far greater impacts than previously thought, and a whale population could decline
by more than 50% at one time.




The risk to whales from coincidentally occurring, widespread causes of mortality remains unaddressed.
It ignores the potential cumulative effect, within and across years, of, e. g., devastating natural catastrophes
happening in tandem with deadly human-related accidents and remaining undetected. The Scientiﬁc
Committee determined that "to detect a decline of about 2—3% per year, monitoring would have to continue
for at least 20 years even with CVs as low as 0.2. By this time, the stock may be quite depleted." (IWC, 1990c)

The RMP does not take into account environmental threats that affect whale stocks. The Scientiﬁc
Committee has not studied or incorporated the mass of related scientific data which has become available
following the implementation of the moratorium on commercial whaling. This data assesses the signiﬁcant
degradation of the earth's atmosphere and marine ecosystems and also examines known or potential impacts
on whales and other cetaceans. The Scientiﬁc Committee has failed to adhere to its own stated principle that
the development of any future RMP must include the study of the effects of environmental changes on whales
and the incorporation of the results of such a study into the ultimate RMP.

According to the US. Marine Mammal Commission, the RMP also does not consider "the effects on whales
of a variety of human activities such as oil and gas exploration and development, commercial fishing, vessel
traffic, pollution or the adverse effects of whale catches on the marine ecosystems of which whales are a part. "
(U.S. MMC, 199 la) A management regime must "take into account the effects of other human activities that
could result in mortality, injury, and habitat loss, as well as unpredictable 'natural phenomena' that could

affect resource availability, competition with other species, survival and reproduction from season to
season." (Tillman, 1990)

The Scientiﬁc Committee reported that a ”notable risk-related effect was found for a combination of episodic
events and a positive bias in the abundance estimates." (IWC, 1992c) Smith et a1. recommend that "a
complete evaluation of the possible interactions among inter-survey interval, bias in abundance estimates,
and unexpected events... is needed to ensure that the performance of the multi-stock CLA meets the
performance criteria of the Commission. ” (Smith et al., SC/44/025) During the inter-survey interval, a single
catastrophic episode or combination of such events may cause immediate damage to a whale population
which could remain undetected for years.

No action has yet been taken to counter the serious problems with the RMP highlighted by the
robustness trials. Tests of the RMP's ability to respond to deleterious environmental changes were "not
properly completed." (Holt, 1993b) Holt emphasizes this key shortfall by asking and answering the
following question: "Have trials adequately confirmed the robustness of the procedure to such changes: It
seems to me that the answer must be 'no."' (SC/44/03)

The precautionary principle is the only legitimate approach to be used at a time when critical uncertainties
in the global ecosystem, especially in the Southern Hemisphere, are turning into critical certainties. The
RMP is neither precautionary nor conservative. With a protection level of only 54%, the RMP will allow
catch quotas on severely depleted whale populations. (The US. Marine Mammal Protection Act requires a
60% protection level, which is still thought to be too low for slowly reproducing species like whales.)

In discussing over—harvesting or population reduction below the stability threshold, Berryman concluded that:
If the harvest is too great, or if harvesting plus an environmental catastrophe forces the population into another domain,
then the original equilibrium population may never be attained even if harvesting is discontinued. (Berryman, 1981)

C. Action Required

Robust results must be achieved in a comprehensive range of additional implementation trials,
speciﬁcally regarding environmental threats and coincidentally occurring causes of mortality, before
the RMP can be applied to the calculation of any real whaling quotas.

10

 




V. Model Constructs

A. Panel Finds Further Implementation Trials Necessary to Address Questionable RMP Foundation
Assumptions

The panel determined that:

o if "the more complex multispecies and multistock effects ultimately govern the dynamics of
harvested whale stocks, it is possible that implementation of the CLA may fail to meet the
conservation objective of management in the long term"

0 implementation trials be conducted "to consider more complex dynamical structure...; modeling
assumptions fundamentally different from those used in the construction of the CLA; multispecies
and multistock effects; and combined effects (such as those of depensation and stochasticity and
inaccurate data)"

0 the underlying structure of the robustness trials was problematic, including "the relevance of
simple, single species population dynamics given the ecosystem context of whale stocks and the
possibility that multispecies interaction could alter the dynamics after the depletion of some
populations."

B. Documentation of RMP's Structural Weaknesses

The RMP applies a uniform approach to all whale stocks, irrespective of their depletion status or relative
abundance. According to the US. Marine Mammal Commission, it is based on an outdated, single species,
maximum sustainable yield concept directed toward the exploitation rather than the conservation of whales.

The RMP relies on data regarding pre—exploitation population levels and recruitment rates. Historical
hunting records portray an equilibrium between whale populations and their ecosystem. Today, whales must
contend with such factors as expanded krill harvesting, decreased phytoplankton levels or increased UV-B
pollution.

Carrying capacity and maximum sustainable yield (MSY), both incorporated into the functioning of
the RMP, are untenable concepts. Fowler and Sineff concluded that "current carrying capacity is
essentially impossible to measure through environmental assessment. The historic or natural carrying
capacity of disturbed ecosystems can not be directly asses sed." (1992) Be gon and Mortimer caution that "no
single carrying capacity can ever characterize a natural population: most aspects of its environment are far
too variable, and its own behavior is never wholly predictable." (1986)

The concept of MSY completely disregards the relationships between species and ecosystems. Single
species models "are not consonant with real systems.”(Caughley, 1981) and "multispecies systems cannot
be managed by piecemeal application of single-species MSY concepts." (Beddington and May, 1980)

MSY theory ”mu st be compromised: (1) to reduce the risk of catastrophic decline and reduction of genetic
variability; and (2) to accommodate the interactions among the species of organisms that comprise aquatic
communities." (Larkin, 1977) Eberhardt underscored ”the need to consider the interactions and interrela-
tions of many species simultaneously." (1978) Talbot warned that "from an ecological point of view, the
use of MSY on the basis of a simple model applied to a single species is almost certain to fail because it does
not take into account the many factors affecting or operating on the species itself, nor the interrelationships
between the species harvested and other species and elements of the ecosystem.” (1975)

 




A major disadvantage of the concept of MSY "is that it constitutes an abstraction through which the harvested
species is managed independently of the ecosystem. " (Eberhardt, 1978) The possibility of harvesting marine
communities ”in a sustainable fashion depends on a greatly improved understanding of the way their
constituent species interact with one another and with the environment." (Beddington and May, 1982) The

RMP "does not consider the possible effects of removing whales" (US. MMC, 1991b) on other ecosystem
components.

C. Action Required

The following recommendation by the US. Marine Mammal Commission should be adopted: the
IWC should "maintain the ecological relationships between cetacean populations and other compo-
nents of the ecosystems of which they are a part." (U.S. MMC, 1991a)

VI. Research and Management
A. Panel Concludes Lack of Emphasis on Acquiring New Knowledge Seriously Hampers RMP

The panel found that:

u "there is the danger that nothing will be learned from the application of the proposed RMP that will
be useful in improving its future performance or in devising another management procedure should
it fail altogether"

o "a danger in separating management from research by means of a mechanical 'black box' algorithm
is that this could deﬂect interest away from scientific research and monitoring"

0 "there is a need for an ongoing research effort. The objectives of that effort should include the
following: the use of new knowledge on whale biology and populations...; an ongoing program of
robustness and implementation trials against computer simulated whale populations that reﬂect new
understanding and insights into whale biology and population dynamics; the collection of an
auxiliary set of data...; the development of methods, such as genetic techniques, for estimating stock
distribution, migration patterns and stock identification."

0 "input from scientists outside of the Scientific Committee at an earlier stage in the development of
ideas would be advantageous... External scientists can bring a fresh perspective to the problem,
possibly without some institutional biases unconsciously built in by the participants. This perspec-
tive from independent reviewers may aid in the development of better methods or uncover important
problems as part of the process of constructing a management procedure."

B. Documentation of Scientiﬁc Deﬁcits

The principal challenge in model construction is to “mimic the real—world system." (Poj ar, 1981) However,
many models are "poor approximations to reality." (Getz and Haight, 1989) The great disadvantage of
mathematical models "is that they are usually much too simple to reﬂect adequately the complexity of the
natural (and real) situation, which may be very difﬁcult to deal with mathematically.” (Eberhardt, 1977) It
is ”particularly important to be able to model the variability of ecological systems as well as their average
tendencies." (J effers, 1982) The RMP does not do this.

Information "on the marine ecosystem necessary for any real understanding of living whales is almost totally
lacking. (Talbot, 1974) Issues related to the need for "ecological monitoring" have not been thoroughly

12

 




addressed by the Scientific Committee. (Smith et al., SC/44/025) In fact, it has not made much "progress
in defining data requirements for monitoring changes in ecological relationships to validate the underlying
single stock density dependence assumptions central to the CLA." (Smith et al., SC/44/025)

Harris and Kochel found that "models must be designed or chosen on the basis of their applicability to
speciﬁc situations. " (1981) The RMP is a simulation model; such a construct "does not give an exact solution
over time as does an analytic model, and hence it may be subject to a series of errors because of the inexact
nature of the solution techniques used." (Holt and Talbot, 1978) This is anotherindication of the unsuitability
of the RMP.

As observed by Mr. Ian Stewart, former New Zealand Commissioner, at the annual IWC meeting in
Glasgow, Scotland, "the beauty of a smoothly functioning mathematical model may at times blind the
operator to the lethal effects of its application out in the field."

The IWC moratorium was established in the context of a comprehensive assessment of whale stocks, which

has not yet been completed. According to the US. Marine Mammal Commission:
The comprehensive assessments have been difficult to carry out, largely because of uncertainties concerning key issues,
such as stock discreteness and mixing rates, interpretation of abundance trends, appropriate maximum sustainable yield
rates and levels, and the integration of biological information into assessment models. At its 1991 meeting, the Scientiﬁc
Committee noted that these were the same difﬁculties that resulted in the failure of the previously used management
procedure." (US. Marine Mammal Commission, 1992)

The RMP applies a uniform approach to all whale stocks, regardless of their depletion status or relative
abundance. Under certain conditions,it might allow hunting of aprotected stock. The Committee's rationale
that resulting catches would be too small to affect recovery is unfounded. If the IWC accepts such
reasoning, it will be endorsing the commercial hunting of troubled whale populations. According to
UNEP:

The RMP would, in fact, allow resumed whaling on certain stocks that are still below 54 percent of their original number.
This is despite a 1991 decision that reversed the burden of proof on this matter; that is, no stock can be caught unless there

is a high probability that it is above the 'protection' level of 54 percent. (UNEP, 1993)

While a single critical test can invalidate a model, there is no predetermined number of tests that will establish
a sufﬁcient degree of belief in it. Holt argued that "during the testing of the proposed algorithms it became
clear that an unresolved problem could prevent any of them working properly in the real world. This was
the difficulty of knowing how many biologically separate populations of a species might be in a region... and
how much and how fast they mixed. "(Holt, 1992b) He cautions that:
I think there are good scientiﬁc reasons why the new catch—limit rules may not be so safe as their proponents claim... It
should suffice that the world knows by now that although it wants——and needs—scientific advice about the management
and protection of the planet's natural resources, it is unwise—I would say foolish—to act, in the practical conduct of
human affairs on the presumption that scientists are infallible. (Holt, 1992a)
Holt further warns:
Though the pr0posed new whaling rules have been tested in theory, no such rules can be infallible—even though all
scientists don't necessarily recognize this fact. On the whole, scientists are a pretty arrogant bunch, and few of the present
generation (your author included) like to be reminded that the 1975 management procedure, which turned out to be fatally
ﬂawed, was supported unanimously by the IWC's scientific committee. (Holt, 1992c)

Contrary to popular mythology, the RMP is not tamper-proof. Possible catch limits under the RMP "c an

vary enormously according to the persuasiveness of conﬂicting groups/scientists." (Holt, 1993a) In fact:
The proposed RMP looks like a highly 'scientific‘ way of calculating appropriate catch limits taking into account
measured uncertainties and hard facts instead of speculation. This is an illusion: the procedure as a whole is not objective.
At every stage the numbers that emerge will depend on the relative inﬂuences of scientists who will seek to interpret
survey data so as to give higher catch limits, those who will try for their own reasons to be conservative, and a few who
will try to be scrupulously 'balanced.‘ (Holt, 1993a)

 




Holt explains that:

It should be realized that the Scientific Committee is, overall, much more strongly pro-whaling than the Commission
itself, notwithstanding the traditional declarations of 'objectivity' and 'independence' of scientists! In fact, most did not
understand what was going on (they possibly still do not because they have not themselves calculated the likely quotas);
a few who did strengthened their decision to abstain from voting for the new rules." (Holt, 1992a)

It is appropriate to:

Rely on scientists to recognize problems, but not to remedy them. The judgment of scientists is often heavily inﬂuenced
by their training in their respective disciplines, but the most important issues involving resources and the environment
involve interactions whose understanding must involve many disciplines. Scientists and their judgments are subject to
political pressure. (Ludwig et al., 1993)

Note: It is ironic that some of the strongest arguments against the adoption of the RMP are best presented
by Dr. Sidney Holt, currently an outspoken proponent for the provisional acceptance of the procedure. His
written scientific findings are clearly more persuasive than his spoken political opinions.

C. Action Needed

The comprehensive assessment must be finished before there is justiﬁcation for any further accep-
tance of the RMP. An enabling clause allowing for the collection of parallel ecosystem data separate
from the catches should also be adopted. (Smith and Stokes, 1993)

VII. The RMP Raises More Issues Than It Resolves

Far too many critical issues remain unresolved at this time to advance the RMP, no matter how
"provisionally.” For example, we can only guess at the number of sightings required to track variations in
net productivity over time and pinpoint the depletion status of even a single whale stock. In addition, what
empirical evidence indicates the actual response of a population to whaling?

Whitehead and Payne noted that ”once a stock is severely enough depleted to require full protection, it is
difﬁcult to monitor its recovery. " (1981) Can the true value of the maximum sustainable yield rate (MSYR)
be determined without directly, consistently, and accurately monitoring the differences in stock size over
many years? Is there any foundation for the CLA's assumption of a MSYR in the zero to five percent range?
What is the effect of a negative MSYR?

Can the MSY and carrying capacity ever be correctly measured at fixed periods in time? Can their tendencies
be identified longitudinally? Is the maximum sustainable yield concept anything but a myth? Can a single
carrying capacity ever characterize a natural population? How effective are the safeguards which are
intended to ensure conservative catch limits in the face of imprecise population abundance estimates,
especially those from small areas?

These basic RMP-related questions are as yet unaccompanied by well-founded, factual, and generally
accepted answers. Flawed numerical ﬁndings, faulty technical methodologies, and defective imple-
mentation procedures could really endanger future prospects for cetacean safety.

At Kyoto, Ireland's IWC Commissioner summarily stated that ”the RMP as now proposed... is not
sufficiently conservative to protect all populations."

 




Literature Cited

Allen, K. Radway, 1980, Conservation and Management of Whales, University of Washington Press, Seattle.

Beddington, J. R., and May, R. M., 1980, “Maximum Sustainable Yields in Systems Subject to Harvesting at
More Than One Trophic Level,” in Mathematical Biosciences, V. 51, p. 261-281.

Beddington, J. R., and May, R. M.,1982, “The Harvesting of Interacting Species in a Natural Ecosystem,” in
Scientiﬁc American, V. 247, p. 62-69.

Begon, Michael, and Mortimer, Martin, 1986, Population Ecology——A Unified Study of Animals and Plants,
Sinauer Associates, Inc., Publishers, Sunderland, Massachusetts.

Berryman, Alan A., 1981, Population Systems—A General Introduction, Plenum Press, New York and
London.

Best, Peter B., 1982, “Whales as Target Animals for Sighting Surveys,” in Report of the International Whaling
Commission, #32, p. 551-553.

Best, Peter B., SC/42/SHMi8, "A Review of Information on Stock Identity in Southern Hemisphere Minke
Whales."

Borchers, D. L., and Haw, M. D., SC/41/SHMi9, "An Exploratory Investigation of Duplicate Identiﬁcation
Criteria for the Parallel-Ship and Independent Observer Experiments."

Buckland, S. T., 1987, “Estimation of Minke Whale Numbers from the 1984/85 IWC/IDCR Antarctic
Sightings Data,” in Report of the International Whaling Commission, #37, p. 263—268.

Buckland, S. T., and Duff, E. I., 1989, “Analysis of the Southern Hemisphere Minke Whale Mark - Recovery
Data,” in Donovan, G. P. , Ed., The Comprehensive Assessment of Whale Stocks: the early years, Report of the
International Whaling Commission - Special Issue 11 , Cambridge, p. 121-143.

Buckland, S. T., and Turnock, B. J ., 1992, "A Robust Line Transect Method," in Biometrics, V. 48, No 3, p.
901-909.

Burhnam, Kenneth P., and Anderson, David R., 1984, “The Need for Distance Data in Transect Counts,” in
Journal of Wildlife Management, V. 48, No. 4, p. 1248—1254.

Caughley, Graeme, 1981, “What We Do Not Know About the Dynamics of Large Mammals,” in Fowler,
Charles W., and Smith, Tim D., Dynamics of Large Mammal Populations, John Wiley and Sons, New York,
p. 361-372.

Chapman, D. G., de la Mare, W. K., Holt, S. J ., and Van Beek, J. G., 1982, “Statement on Minke Whale
Assessments for the Southern Hemisphere and Advice to the Commission, in Report of the International
Whaling Commission, #32, p. 136-138.

Collins, Elizabeth, 1985, “Inaccuracies in Numbers,” in Nature, V. 316, August 8, p. 478.

Davis, Kimberly S., 1985 , “International Management of Cetaceans Under the New Law of the Sea,” in Boston
University International Law Journal, V. 3, p. 477—518.

Doroshenko, W. V., 1979, "Populations of Minke Whales in the Southern Hemisphere," in Report of the
International Whaling Commission, #29, p. 361-364.

Eberhardt, L. L., 1977, “Optimal Policies for Conservation of Large Mammals, with Special Reference to
Marine Ecosystems,” in Environmental Conservation, V. 4, No. 3, p. 205-212.

15

 




Eberhardt, L. L., 1978, “Appraising Variability in Population Studies,” in Journal of Wildlife Management,
V. 42, No. 2, p. 207-238.

Fowler, Charles W., Ryel, Ronald J ., and Nelson, Louis J ., February, 1982, Sperm Whale Population Analysis,
Utah State University, Logan, Utah.

Fowler, Charles W., and Siniff, Donald B., 1992, “Determining Population Status and the Use of Biological
Indices in the Management of Marine Mammals,” in McCullough, Dale R., and Barrett, Reginald H., Eds.,
Wildlife 2001: Populations, Elsevier Applied Science, London and New York, p. 1025-1037.

Gaskin, D. E., 1982, The Ecology of Whales and Dolphins, Heinemann, London and Exeter, New Hampshire.

Getz, Wayne M., and Haight, Robert G., 1989, Population Harvesting - Demographic Models of F ish, Forest,
and Natural Resources, Princeton University Press, Princeton, New Jersey.

Gulland, John, 1988, “The End of Whaling?”, in New Scientist, October 29, 1988, p. 42-47.

Harris, Larry D., and Kochel, Irwin H., 1981, “A Decision-Making Framework for Population Management,”
in Fowler, Charles W., and Smith, Tim D., Eds., Dynamics of Large Mammal Populations, John Wiley and
Sons, New York, p. 221-239.

Haw, M. D., SC/42/SHMi3, “Estimation of Minke Whale Abundance from the 198 8/89 IWC/IDCR Antarctic
Assessment Cruise in Area IV.”

Hiby, A.R., 1982, "The Effect of Random Whale Movement on Density Estimates Obtained from Whale
Sighting Surveys,” in Report of the International Whaling Commission, 32, p. 791—793.

Hiby, A.R., 1985, "An Approach to Estimating Population Densities of Great Whales from Sighting Surveys,"
in IMA Journal of Mathematics Applied in Medicine and Biology, V. 2, p. 201-220.

Hiby, A.R., and Ward, A.J., 1986, "Analysis of Cue-Counting and Blow Rate Estimation Experiments Carried
Out During 1984/1985 IDCR Minke Whale Assessment Cruise," in Report of the International Whaling
Commission, #36, p. 473—475.

Hiby, A.R., and Hammond, P. S., 1989, “Survey Techniques for Estimating Abundance of Cetaceans,” in
Donovan, G. P., Ed., The Comprehensive Assessment of Whale Stocks: the early years, Report of I nternational
Whaling Commission - Special Issue 11 , Cambridge, p. 47-80.

Hiby, Lex, and Lovell, Phil, SC/42/SHMi29, “Passing Versus Closing Mode Survey —— The Pod Identity
Question.”

Holt, Sidney J., and Talbot, Lee M., April, 1978, "New Principles for the Conservation of Wild Living
Resources," in Wildlife Management, No. 59.

Holt, Sidney, 1992a, "Do the Great Whales Have a Future? ” in Talking Whales, October 31, Annual Conference
of the Whale and Dolphin Conservation Society, University of London.

Holt, Sidney, 1992b, “Wildlife in the Ocean Commons: Whales and Other Beasts,” in Inequality and the
Commons, Third Common Property Conference of the International Association for the Study of Common
Property, Washington, DC, September 17-20.

Holt, Sidney, 1992c, “Whales for the Grandchildren,” in BBC Wildlife, July, 1992.

Holt, Sidney,1993a, “Comments on Opposition to the French Proposal for a Southern Ocean Sanctuary,”
International Fund for Animal Welfare, Sussex, England.

 




Holt, Sidney, 1993b, "The Regulation of Commercial Whaling," International Fund for Animal Welfare,
Sussex, England, October.

Holt, Sidney J., 1994a, “Whaling—Report of Independent Scientific Peer Review of the Catch Limit
Algorithm of the International Whaling Commission’s Revised Management Procedure (RMP)," February 4,
Citta della Pieve, Italy.

Holt, Sidney,1994b, “Ahab’s Return,” in BBC Wildlife, February, 1994, p. 58.

Holt, Sidney, SC/44/06, "Scientific Advice on the Management of Commercial Whaling."

Horwood, J.W., 1981, “Management and Models of Marine Multispecies Complexes,” in Fowler, Charles W. ,
and Smith, Tim D., Dynamics of Large Mammal Populations, John Wiley and Sons, New York.

Horwood, J.W., 1990, Biology and Exploitation of the Minke Whale, CRC Press, Boca Raton, Florida.

IWC, 1979, “Report of the Sub-Committee on Minke Whales,” in Report of the International Whaling
Commission, #29, p. 74-80.

IWC, 1982, "Report of the Sightings Subgroup," in Report of the International Whaling Commission, #32, p.
730-737.

IWC, 1986, “Sightings Estimates for Southern Hemisphere Minke Whales,” in Report of theIntemational
Whaling Commission, #36, p. 77.

IWC, 1987, “Report of the Sub-Committee on Southern Hemisphere Minke Whales,” in Report of the
International Whaling Commission, #37, p. 68-75.

IWC, 1989, “Report of the Special Meeting of the Scientific Committee on Planning for a Comprehensive
Assessment of Whale Stocks,” in Donovan, G. P., The Comprehensive Assessment of Whale Stocks: the early
years, Report of the International Whaling Commission - Special Issue 1 I , Cambridge, p. 3-10.

IWC, 1990a, “Report of the Sub—Committee on Stock Estimation,” in Report of the International Whaling
Commission, #40, p. l31‘-138.

IWC, 1990b, “Report of the Sub-Committee on Management Procedures,” in Report of the International
Whaling Commission, #40, p. 95-118.

IWC, 1990c, “Report of the Scientiﬁc Committee,” in Report of the International Whaling Commission, #40,
p. 39—79.

IWC, 1991a, “Report of the Scientiﬁc Committee,” in Report of the International Whaling Commission, #41,
p. 5 1-82.

IWC, 1991b, "Report of the Sub-Committee on Management Procedures," in Report of the International
Whaling Commission, #41, p. 90-112.

IWC, 1991c, "Report of the Working Group to Assess the Methods Used to Generate Abundance Estimates
from NASS — 89 Survey Data,” in Report of the International Whaling Commission, #41, p. 153.

IWC, 1992a "Report of the Ad Hoc Working Group on g(0)," in Report of the International Whaling
Commission, #42, p. 252-258.

IWC, 1992b, "Report of Fourth Comprehensive Assessment Workshop on Management Procedures," in
Report of the International Whaling Commission, #42, p. 305-334.

 




IWC, 1992c, ”Report of the Scientific Committee," in Report of the International Whaling Commission, #42,
p. 51-79.

IWC, 1992d, "Report of the Third Comprehensive Assessment Workshop on Management Procedures," in
Report of the International Whaling Commission, #42, p. 271-304.

Jeffers, John N. R., 1982, Modeling, Chapman and Hall, London, New York.

J effers, John N. R., 1988, Practitioner’s Handbook on the Modeling onynamic Changes in Ecosystems, John
Wiley and Sons, Chichester, New York.

Klinowska, Margaret, 1991, Dolphins, Porpoises, and Whales of the World - The IUCN Red Data Book,
International Union for the Conservation of Nature and Natural Resources, Gland, Switzerland, Cambridge,
England.

Lankester, Kees, SC/39/012, “The Stock Boundaries of Whales: Implementation in the Comprehensive
Assessment.”

Larkin, PA, 1977, "An Epitaph for the Concept of Maximum Sustainable Yield," in Transactions of the
American Fisheries Society, V. 106, No. 1, p. 1-11.

Leatherwood, Stephen, and Reeves, Randall R., 1983, The Sierra Club Handbook of Whales and Dolphins,
Sierra Club Handbooks, San Francisco.

Ludwig, Donald, Hilborn, Ray, and Walters, Carl, 1993, “Uncertainty, Resource Exploitation, and Conserva-
tion: Lessons from History,” in Science, April 2, V. 260.

May, Robert M., Beddington, J. R., Horwood, J. W., and Shepherd, J. G., 1978, “Exploiting Natural
Populations in an Uncertain World,” in Mathematical Biosciences, V. 42, p. 219—252.

Poj ar, Thomas M., 1981, “A Management Perspective of Population Modeling,” in Fowler, Charles W., and
Smith, Tim D., Dynamics of Large Mammal Populations, John Wiley and Sons, New York.

Ramsey, F. L. , Wildman, V., and En gbrin g, J. , 1986, "Covariate Adjustment to Effective Area in Variable-Area
Wildlife Surveys," in Biometrics, V. 43, p. 1-12.

Rorvik, Carl Jacob, 1987, “Northeast Atlantic Minke Whales Re-Assessed,” in Report of the International
Whaling Commission, #37, p. 241—252.

Schmidt, Karen, 1994, “Scientists Count a Rising Tide of Whales in the Sea,” in Science, January 7, V. 263,
p. 25.

Scott, GP. and Winn, HE, 1980, Comparative Evaluation ofAerial and Shipboard Sampling Techniques for
Estimating the Abundance of Humpback Whales (Megaptera Novaeangliae), University of Rhode Island,
Kingston, Rhode Island, p. 26.

Smith, Tim D., Reilly, Steve, Swartz, Steven, and Jones, Linda, SC/44/O25, "Data Standards for Management
of Commercial Whaling Under the IWC's Revised Management Procedure."

Smith, TD. and Stokes, K., 1993, "Minimum Data Standards for the Revised Management Scheme," January
25 Draft.

Talbot, L.M., 1974, “History, Status, and Conservation Problems of the Great Whale Populations,” in
Symposium on Endangered Species: Causation and Remedies, Session on Cetaceans at the Annual Meeting
of the American Association for the Advancement of Science, February 28, San Francisco, California.

 




 

Talbot, L. M., 1975, “Maximum Sustainable Yield: An Obsolete Management Concept,” in Trans. N. Amer.
Wild. Nat. Res. C0nf., #40, p. 91—96.

Tillman, Michael F., 1990, “The International Whaling Commission: Whale Conservation at the Crossroads,”
in Taylor, Sherryl, Ed., They’re Not Saved Yet, American Cetacean Society, November 9-11, Monterey,
California.

UN EP, 1993, "The Whaling Debate: Does Sustainable Use Include Whaling?," in Our Planet, Vol. 5, No. 5,
p. 10.

US. Departmentof Commerce, 1991,F inal Recovery Plan for the H umpback Whale - Megaptera Novaeangliae,
November, Silver Spring, Maryland.

US. Marine Mammal Commission, 1991a, “Issues Facing the International Whaling Commission and the
United States Regarding the Resumption of Commercial Whaling and the Future Conservation of Cetaceans,”
Washington, DC.

U. S. Marine Mammal Commission, 1991b, Executive Director, Correspondence to US. Commissioner to the
International Whaling Commission, December 5.

US. Marine Mammal Commission, 1992, Annual Report to Congress — 1991, Washington, DC, December 5.

Whitehead, Hal, and Payne, Roger, 1981, New Techniques for Measuring Whales from the Air, New York
Zoological Society, February, Bronx, New York.

Winn, Howard E., and Perkins, Paul J., 1976, "Distribution and Sounds of the Minke Whale, with a Review
of Mysticete Sounds," in Cetology, No. 19.

Zahl, Samuel, APPENDIX to SC/41/SHMi8, "Line Transect Sampling with Unknown Probability of
Detection Along the Transect."

19

 




Legislative Office
PO. Box 29631
Washington, DC 20017
(202) 636-8339

tor of Government Relations

America’s First Humane Society

September 19, 1985

Society for Animal Protective
Legislation

P.O. Box 3719

Georgetown Station

Washington, D.C. 20007

Dear Christine:

I am sending you a rough draft of a piece of legislation we are
trying to develop. I would appreciate having your opinion on its
merits, construction, and potential.

The ASPCA has long been concerned about abuses to exhibition and
entertainment animals. An event last spring in New York
involving the exhibition of goats precipitated (nu: action and
this draft bill. As you may recall, in April the Ringling
Brothers' Barnum and Bailey Circus made a big splash when they
featured several living "unicorns." Upon inspection by the
ASPCA, the animals turned out to be surgically altered goats.
The (HEN; claimed these goats were not protected by the Animal
Welfare Act, and we were left without a remedy for this or
similar, future surgically-created freak shows.

Although an outright ban on the use of animals to amuse and
entertain people would halt many abuses, it is not practicable.
Therefore, we are tackling two areas for change: the surgical
alteration and exhibition of animals; and their misuse during
performance training and movie-making.

In its current draft form, the bill amends the Animal Welfare Act
and the federal obscenity statutes to accomplish five changes.
It:

0 clarifies the confusion in the Animal Welfare Act over
which animals are protected and expands the authority
over exhibition animals. (The USDA has held that farm
animals such as horses and goats, even when tﬂunz are
used for exhibition, are not protected by the Act. The
new definition makes clear that farm animals when used
for experimentation and exhibition are also USDA's
concern);

THE AMERICAN SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS
Headquarters: 441 East 92nd Street ° New York, NY. 10128 - (212) 876-7700

 




prohibits, under the Animal Welfare Act, the exhibition
of surgically altered or disfigured animals where the
surgery was done for reasons other than sterilization,
the animal's health, or the public's safety;

prohibits, under the Animal Welfare Act, the exhibition
of animals injured or disfigured during training;

prohibits, under the obscenity statutes, the abuse of
animals for movie-making; and

provides penalties for the traffickers of movies where
animals are harmed during production.

This is 51 first step. The draft bill currently seeks two
specific kinds of protection for performing animals in the
general areas of circuses and nmvies. Broader issues such as
regulating trainers, other circus abuses, or road-side shows
would need more comprehensive legislation.

I would appreciate any suggestions you might have, however, about
the contents or omissions of the bill, the actual drafting and
language, and any political considerations you might foresee.

The enclosed materials will give you some documentation for the
draft bill. We are eager to get this underway, so it would be
helpful if you could return or call-in any comments to me by

Wednesday, October 9th.
Thanks for your time.

Sincerely,

W

  ' s M if "
3 / . 1 v

v . < .
WW. . ﬁfﬁir’yj;

 




Section I. Section 2(9) of the Animal Welfare Act (7 U.S.C. 2131-2156)
is amended to read as follows:

The term "animal" means any live or dead dog, cat,
monkey (nonhuman primate mammal), guinea pig,
hamster, rabbit, or such other warm-blooded animal,
as the Secretary may determine is being used, or is
intended for use, for research, testing, experimen-
tation, or exhibition purposes or as a pet; but

such term excludes.horses [not used for research
purposes] and other farm animals, such as, but not
limited to livestock or poultry, used or intended
for use as food or fiber, or livestock or poultry,
used or intended for improving animal nutrition,
breeding, nanagement or production efficiency, or
for improving the quality of food or fiber unless
the horses or farm animals, such as, but not limited
to livestock or poultry, are used for research,
testing, exPerimentation, or exhibitionpurposes

or as a pet. With respect to a dog the term means
all dogs including those used for hunting, security,
or breeding purposes.

 

Section 2. The Animal Welfare Act (7 U.S.C. 2131-2156) is amended
adding a new section ll-a to read as follows:

a) It shall be unlawful for any exhibitor to knowingly

exhibit or transport or offer for transportation,
in commerce, an animal that has been the subject of

Words within brackets [ l to be omitted.

Words underlined to be added.

 




any surgical or other invasive procedure, except
sterilization procedures, to disfigure or in any
way change the normal appearance of the animal,
unless such procedure was conducted to improve
the health of the animal or in furtherance of
public safety.

It shall be unlawful for any exhibitor to knowingly
exhibit or transport or offer for transportation,
in commerce, an animal that has been trained in

a manner which caused the animal any injuryror
disfigurement. ‘N“”” 1

Section 3. 18 U.S.C. 1462 is amended to add a subparagraph (d) to
read as follows:

d) any picture, motion-picture film or other medium

of visual communication when in connection with

the production of the picture, motion-picture film
or other medium of visual communication, an animal
wasiinjured,'disfigured or killed solely for the
purpoSe of producing the picture, motion picture
film, or other medium of visual communication,
except this provision shall not apply if the injuring,
disfiguring or killing of the animal was lawful
pursuant to other federal or state laws which allow
for the injuring, disfiguring or killing of animals
under certain specified circumstances.

I.
}

Section 4. 18 U.S.C. 1465 is amended to add a new paragraph to
immediately follow the first paragraph of this section to read as
follows: -

Whoever knowingly transports in interstate or_foreign
commerce for the purpose of sale or distribution any
picture, motion-picture film or other medium of visual
communication when in connection with the production of
the picture, motion picture film or other medium of

visual communication,. an animal was injured, disfigured
or killed solely for the purpose of producing the picture,
motion picture film or other medium of visual communication,
shall be fined not more than $5,000 or imprisoned not more
than five years, or both, except this provision shall not
apply if the injuring, disfiguring or killing of an animal
was lawful pursuant to other federal or state laws which
allow for the injuring, disfiguring or killing of animals
under certain specified circumstances.

 




July 3. 1985

Memorandum in support of legislation barring
interstate transportation. distribution or
exhibition of films in which animals are
cruelly treated. maimed or killed solely

for the purpose of entertainment.

Films in which animals are cruelly treated. maimed or
killed solely for the purpose of entertainment are a form
of entertainment speech which is not entitled to First
Amendmentgprotection.

Entertainment, like political and ideological
speech. is a form of speech which is normally protected by
the First Amendment.‘ Protected entertainment speech
includes forms such as radio. television. films. and live
entertainment.’ However. there are certain classes of
speech. whether they arise in an entertainment context or
not. the prevention and punishment of which will not violate
First Amendment guarantees.’ These forms include ”fighting

words.” words which when spoken "inflict injury or tend to

incite an immediate breach of the peace;"‘ lewd and obscene

language;s profanity;‘ and libelous language.’

In 1982. the United States Supreme Court. in.§gg
York v. Ferber.‘ delineated an additional category of
speech which is not entitled to First Amendment protection;
pornographic films that use child actors. The Court held
that child pornography need not meet an obscenity standard to

be precluded from First Amendment protection.’ Citing the

 

 

 




state's compelling interest in protecting its children from
harm and exploitation. the Court held that the State may

regulate child pornography even if it is not obscene.‘°

A. The Ferber Decision
At issue in Ferber was a New York State statute

which imposed criminal penalties for the promotion of a

sexual performance by a child.H The respondent was a

bookstore proprietor who was convicted of promoting child
pornography when he sold two films to an undercover police
‘officer." The basis of respondent's First Amendment claim
was not that the State lacked justification to regulate the
distribution of child pornography, but that state regulation
should be limited to child pornography that was legally
obscene under the test set forth in Miller v. California.”
The Court in Ferber rejected the Miller standard as

the correct analysis in child pornography cases.“ Citing
the "compelling” State interest in protecting the welfare of
its children.15 the Court noted that while some states may
find the Miller test an adequate standard by which to
regulate child pornography, ”it does not follow that the
First Amendment prohibits a State from going further."“
In the Court's view. New York's compelling interest in

protecting its children justified a more restrictive

limitation of First Amendment rights."

 




8. Application of the Ferber rationale to films
involving cruelty to animals.

'l'he Ferber Court listed five factors supporting its
.finding of a compelling state interest. At least four of
these factors would also support the proposed legislation to
ban films in which animals are cruelly treated.

1. The State has a compelling interest in
protecting animals from cruel treatment. therefore the State
may regulatejroduction of films which animals are cruelly
treated for the purpose of entertainment.

The Ferber Court noted that a State's interest in
protecting its children from harm constituted a "compelling".
state interest ”beyond the need for elaboration."” In
support of its contention. the Court cited various state
laws, adopted for the purpose of protecting child welfare.
that had survived First Amendment scrutiny due to an
overriding state interest.” Noting that “the prevention
of sexual exploitation and abuse of children constitutes a
government objective of surpassing importance.” and
relying on the New York State legislative findings that child
pornography constituted serious harm to the children

involved,“ the Court held that this legislative judgment.

as illustrated by the anti-child pornography laws. "easily

passes muster under the First Amendment."“

 

 




The prevention of cruelty to animals also
constitutes ”a government objective of surpassing
importance.” All fifty states have enacted anti-cruelty
°1egislation,” and the Animal Welfare Act of 1970"
proscribes cruelty to animals in interstate commerce by
persons or organizations using them for research.
experimental, and exhibition purposes.“ The unanimity
among the states on the need to protect animals from cruelty.
and the similar federal legislation demonstrate that animal
welfare constitutes a compelling state interest for purposes
of analogy to Ferber.

2. Because the distribution of films involving

cruelty to animals is directly related to abuse of animals,
the State may regulate it.

The Court in Ferber noted that it is difficult. if

not impossible to stop child pornography at the production
stage. given the clandestine nature of the child pornography
industry and the secretiveness with which the films are
made." Thus, the Court reasoned, perhaps the only means
by which child pornography could be stopped would be to "dry
up the market"” by enacting anti-promotion and
anti-distribution laws such as the one enacted by New York.
Because animal welfare laws in the fifty states
prevent most forms of cruelty to animals. film producers who

wish to film sequences in which animals are cruelly treated

 

 




must do so in countries where anti-cruelty laws are either
non-existent or loosely enforced. These sequences are then
spliced into the rest of the filntwhich is eventually
odistributed and shown in the U.S. Similar to the production
of child pornography, the production of film sequences in
which animals are cruelly treated. maimed or killed is an
elusive process that virtually defies enforcement at the
production level. Thus, the only effective method of
enforcement of the existing anti—cruelty laws are through
prevention of the distribution of films in which animals are
cruelly treated.

3. Since the advertising'and selling of films
involving animal cruelty makes the;production of such films
jpossible, the State is justifed in.regulating it.

The Court in Ferber noted.that the First Amendment
freedom of speech does not extend to “speech or writing used
as an integral part of conduct in.violation of a crime.""
Since production of child pornography is a crime throughout
the U.S.. and since the distribution of child pornography is
a necessary and integral part of the continuation of the
industry. the Court held that Mr. Ferber's free speech rights
did not extend to conduct - the distribution of pornographic

films depicting children - that constituted a crime in and of

itself.”

 




Cruelty to animals is also a crime in the United
States. Since it is also next to impossible to curb at the
film production level, criminal enforcement, to be effective.
‘must occur at the distribution level. As the Court in Ferber
remarked: " ... were the statutes outlawing the employment of
children [in pornographic films] ... fully effective ...
[there would be] no child pornography to be marketed.’°
Similarly. were the anti—cruelty laws not so easily
circumvented, there would be no need for enforcement at the
distribution level. Unfortunately, however, this is not the

case .

4. The social value of films involving cruelty to
animals is de minimus, and thus not entitled to First
Amendment Protection.

The Court in Ferber held that the social value of

child pornography is de minimus, and thus not deserving of

First Amendment protection. Further, the Court noted that
even if it was possible to conceive of a situation in which
child pornography could have social value, an actor over the
statutory age could be used to depict the child."

-/Ehe social value of the spectacle of a horse
tripping over invisible wires, or of a live water buffalo
being multilated with a machete, is also of minimal social

importance considering the suffering that occurs in filming

 




these sequences; especially when the same up—to-the-minute
technology that allows realistic filming of human ”deaths“
can easily be adapted to use with animals.

5. Recognizing films involving cruelty to animals
as outside the protection of the First Amendment is consistent
with earlier decisions.

As the Court in Ferber noted. First Amendment
analysis mandates a balancing test.” The Court must weigh
the "evil to be restricted ... against the expressive
interest ... at stake,“” and when the so-called evil
"overwhelmingly outweighs"" the expressive interest. the

statute must be upheld.

Cruelty to animals is an evil which overwhelmingly

outweighs the expressive interest at stake. For the reasons
noted above. it would not be inconsistent with the balancing
approach to extend exemption from First Amendment protection
to films in which animals are cruelly treated for

entertainment.

 




Footnotes

Schad v. Borough of Mt. Ephraim, 452 0.8. 61 (1981).

Id.; see also Zacchini v. Scripps - Howard Broadcasting
Co.. 433 0.8. 562 (1977).

Chaplinsky v. New Hampshire, 315 U.S. 568 (1942).

1g; at 572 (calling City Marshal a "damned racketeer"
and a "damned Fascist” held to be speech unprotected by
First Amendment because words likely to cause fight and
thereby breach public peace).

Id.
Id.
Id.

453 U.s. 747 (1982).

at 757.

York Penal Law 5 263.15 reads:

A person is guilty of promoting a sexual
performance by a child when, knowing the character
and content thereof. he produces. directs or
promotes any performance which includes sexual
conduct by a child less than sixteen years of age.

To "promote" is defined in New York Penal Law
5 263.00(S) as:

to procure, manufacture, issue, sell, give,
provide, lend, mail, deliver, transfer, transmute,
publish, distribute, circulate, disseminate,
present, exhibit or advertise, or to offer or
agree to do the same (emphasis added).

 

 




12. 458 0.5. at 751-52.

13. Id; at 760. See 413 U.s. 15 (1973). Under Miller. a
'work is obscene if it: “taken as a whole. appeallsl to the
prurient interest in sex ... portrayts] sexual conduct in a
. patently.-offensive way. and which, taken as a whole. [does]
not have serious literary. artistic. political or scientific
value.“ 413 0.8. at 24. Speech which does not meet these
criteria. under Miller. is not obscene and therefore is
entitled to First Amendment protection.

14. 458 0.8. at 756.
15. Id. at 756-57.
16. Id. at 760.

17. Thus. the Court held that child pornography need not.
as a whole. appeal to the prurient interest of an
average person to fall without First Amendment
protection. given the harm that the child will
necessarily suffer in production of the work; that
child pornography need not be patently offensive. since
it still "required the sexual exploitation of a child
for its production;” and that work which, taken on the
whole. may have serious literary. artistic. political.
or scientific value may nevertheless be regulated free
of First Amendment implications if it involves child
pornography. gg. at 761.

Id. at 757-58.

Id. at 758. (citing Prince v.-Massachusetts. 321 0.8.
158 (1944) (statute prohibiting use of child labor to
distribute literature upheld despite effect on First
Amendment freedoms); Ginsburg v. New Ybrk. 390 U.S. 629
(1968) (statute protecting children from exposure to
nonobscene pornographic literature upheld); FCC v.
Pacifica Foundation. 438 0.8. 726 (1978) federal
statute restricting adult-oriented radio broadcast to
certain hours when children not likely to be in
audience upheld)).

458 0.8. at 757.
Id.

 

 

 

 




Id. at 758.

In new YOrk. for example. any person who cruelly
mistreats, unjustifiahly injures. maimes or kills any
nonthuman animal is subject to criminal penalties.
N.Y. Agric. 8 M. Law S 353 (McKinney's 1982).

P.L. 91-579, 84 Stat. 1560 (1970).

Animal Welfare Act of 1970 S 2131. The legislative
history of the Animal Welfare Act stresses the “ethic
of kindness ... that small helpless creatures deserve
the care and protection of a strong and enlightened
public.” H. Rep. No. 91—1651. reprinted in U.S.
Code Cong. and Admin. News 5103 ( ).

458 U.S. at 759—60.

Id. at 760.

Id. at 761-62, citing Gibboney v. Empire Storage Ice.
Co., 336 U.S. 490 (1949).

Id.
Id. at 762.

at 763.

at 763-64.

3

 




I“. mans-u ’6 SC!
DO. ‘6 Lid.” I32. ’

vould mend case to district s...
Imation offaeu and determtnzuio: 2'

a national or local obscenity W
applicable and what such standards mm

vs v. Ewing. C.A.Uuh 1974. 491 F.2d 7M'

m. Reversal

Where. tn prosecution for mailing o
natter, court of appeals found one of
nagaztnes referred to in single count “to
se obscene, court was required to rem” '2
sanction on such count even

To convict del’eaidants of violation '
:ction prohibiting mailing of obseem :12:
ubased on actions occurring prior to United

tes. Supreme Court decision in Miller to;
“dating a new definition of obscenity WOuld
e Inappropriate without substantial justiﬁes
on outweighing the es post facto consider;
an: and locking such justification the an:
Coons obtained by applying Miller sun.
ards must be reversed. 0.5. v. Wm...
.A.Teal974, 50¢ F.2d IOIZ.

'1 Stay-(m
Whereaccttsedvereindictedin '
ﬁmrwmmmmmé’gﬁ:
ala‘h‘m ‘9’ M1! mailing circulu; in
Itonoofthtsiectionandwereaneuedm
dmdmtmmuatthdrm' ins“
- District ofCalifornia vim mm;

ates hiagistratel and thereupon deemed
ad suit: In quit)» against United States
mmtsstoner and United States Marsha] in
ttted States District Court in Southern Dis.
:ddonc‘hgmhth: enjoin removal of ac
. gr eirc ' '
,1; . which m ulars were Identical

II no?” by my 0" ground that
’3‘ d “9“"! do not ordinarily restrain
MI] W Steiner v. Hock,
“01.1959. 272 F.1d 314.

 

a” onset-mm

‘ 1662.

is 51462

Importaﬂonortranaportatioldohseeae-attets

me’mtothellnitedmmotanyplacesubjecttothe
gcdonthereof,orknovinglyasesnyeapresseompanyotother

m

‘ man carrier. for carriage in interstate or foreign merce—
(I) my m lewd, lasciv'mus, or ﬁlthy hook. pamphlet. picture,

motion-picture ﬁlm. Piper. letter. writing. print. or other matter of

indecent character; or

(b) any obscene, lewd, lascivious, or ﬁlthy phonograph recording.
electrical transcription. or other article or thing capable of producing

sound; or

(e) any drug, medicine, article, or thing designed, adapted, or intend-
ed for producing abortion, or for any indecent or immoral use; or any
written or printed card. letter, circular, hook, pamphlet, advertisement,
or notice of any kind giving information. directly or indirectly, where,

,how, or of whom, or by what means any of such mentioned articles,
matters, or things may be obtained or made; or

Whoever knowingly takes from such express company or other common

“ﬂier any matter or thing the carriage of which is herein made unlawful—

shsll be fined not more than $5,(D0 or imprisoned not more than ﬁve
, or both, for the first such oﬂ’ense and shall be ﬁned not more than
510,000 or imprisoned not more than ten years, oi both, for each such

offense thereafter.

am 25, ms, c. as, 62 Sun. 768; May 27, 1950, c. 214, 5 t. 64 Stat. 194; Aug.
3;, I958. Pub.L. 35.7% 5 2, 72 Sun. 962; Jan. s, 1971, PubL 91-662, 5 4, 34

Stat. 1973.)

Historical-dkeﬁsioaNotes

Wt Note. Basedon‘l’itle ll,U.S.C—.
5N0ed.,§ 396 (Mar.d,l909,e.321,§245,
35 Stat. ”38; June 5. I920, c. 268, 41 Stat.
3060).

Idaeocetopersonseausingorprocnriq
mornittedasunneceesaryinviewofdeﬁri-
dwdﬁndwmaectimZofthistitle

Vadsﬁhtcrﬂateorforeigncommerce”
verembstitutedfortenh'nesoftextvithont
mdmcaning.($eedeﬁnitiveaection10d
thistitlc-l '

(Seemiser‘snotennderaection Mdld
thistitle.)

Minorchangesofphraseologyweremade.

”’71 Amendment. Pool. 91-662 struck
out “negating'conception. or” pieced-g
‘producingahomon‘.

199W ML IS-796sohlti-
llted in opening par. “net” for “dede
vith", “carriage of which” for “depositingd

vich for carriage”, 'm penultimate pan, and
heatedmhstpar.pcnahypmvisionsfor
«toque-toll“.

850 Amendment. Act Hay 27.1950
hronghtn'thinscopeofsectiontheimporta-
tionormnsportation of‘any obsceneleivd,
hsciviomorﬁlthyphonographreoording.
dearicalmnsmipdmorotherarticleor
thiagupableofproducingaotmd.

Elective Date a! 87! Amendment.
AmmdmentbyPuhL 91-662 eﬂective Jan.
9,!971.aeesectim7ofhh.L.9|—662,set
out as -Eﬂective Date If l971 Ammdment
notenndersectionSSZd’thistitle

Wei-listen. Forlegislativehistory
andpmpoteofActMayZ‘l. 1950.»: I950
UiCode Cong.Service. p. 2438. See, also,
M 15—796, 1958 UiCode Cong. and
Ahhlews, p. 4012; ML ”462. I970
USCode Cong. ad Admﬁevs. p. 5981.

Dundee-ea
mmammmamtmdnkmmm.
lOl

 




18 §1464

Not. to
In. “my counsel

. Where. in prosecution for uttering obscene.
indecent or profane radio communication

identity of defendant as one who made broad -

aions n! which tapes were playad; in any
event there was no deprivation ofright of
counsel in Me: of showing that '
took place after return of indicumnt. [1.8. v.
Smith. C.A.lll.l972. 467 F.2d [126.

ll. Ahbiblmy of "Hence

Where. in motion {or uttering obscene.
.profane radio communication, in-
defendant's voice was
. W! aural obser-
vation of dcfuidant and not upon out-ofcourt
muons.“ which tapes were played to wit-

Inissi . vs. v. Smith. C.A.Iﬂ.l97
F.2d "26. 2' ‘67

111W

y

. unmmditianot

error to ouut charge that defendant must
have knowledge of contents of his utteranca
orcharpthatjurymmtﬁndthatdcfmdant
hmwhnmmnca wouldatisfylepldcﬁni-
nondohscaﬁty.buthaamuchasacicntcris
danmtdmmcchrmhbmwbkm
foroountorcfusctoinstructaatothat
US. v. Smith. CA.IILI972. 467

122

CRIMB h g

13. Scopedmin

0n Ippeal by defendant from m"
formcﬁngobscau.hdecent.orprofmb
mh'mmda“citizcnsband”nh

broadcast by dcfcnd-
[1.5. v. Simpson. CA.

14. Mammal-or
Invirwdrtﬂalcoun'sinstructiommd
Iccmtyandmvnewofddcndant'sfailmlﬂ

an OBSCENTI'Y

When any person is convicl
pigment of conviction may, i;
carnation and disposal of s:
'- thc possession or under the:
1 his arresL
(Added June 28, 1955. c. I90. '5’

Ida-neutron. “ThisAct”.
mg LmnsActJnncua
(9 sin, 183. which W
dthistitle and added this

hmandﬁmu§ﬂsnam

My #7.
CJ.& Mty i 7-

 

K




3 obscene.
cation. in-
voice was
It] obsero
u-oﬁcourt
d to wit-
not inad-
.l972. 467

acting ob-
]: by radio
necessarily
Id it is not
dam must
; utterances
t defendant
ha! deﬁni-
s acienter is
alibi: error
as to that
“972. 467

page by means of a “citizen's band" Mm.
court of appeals was bound by the jury find
in; that the language broadcast by delenduu
was not "obscene“ L'.S \p Simpson. CA
lnd.l977. 561 F.2d 53

Id. Harnleasoryejndldalerror

lntn'en'oftrialeoun'sirtstructiortsond,_ ‘

scenity and in tn'ew of defendant‘s failure to
object to instructions given or to tender .,
instructions of his own. trial court‘s failure '.
prosecution for uttering obscene. indecent or
profane language by means of rndio county.
nication to give deﬁnitions of “profane” .
“indecent" was not plain error. Tsllman '
US. CA.lll.l972. 465 F.2d 282.

Instruction. in prosecution for use of g
scene. indecent. or profane language am y.
dio. that obscene word or words are def“
by standard whether i to average WK-
.pplying contemporary community mm
thewordorwordshave todowithth
prurient. lewd or lascivious was not in ..
cordance with deﬁnition given by UN

States Supreme Court. ad giving of mm
tion was reversible error. Gagliardo v. I);

 

 

CA.Nev.l966. 366 F.2d 720.

.on of obscene matters for sale or distribs-

nsports in interstate or foreign commerce for the ;

tion any obscene, lewd, lsscivious, or filthy boot.
aaper, letter, writing, print, silhouette, dram

graph recording. electrical transcription or othu ‘

an; sound or any other matter of indecent a
x ﬁned not more than $5.01) or imprisoned ﬂ
aoth.
foresaid of two or more copies of any publicatiu'

article of the character described above. a l
h publications and articles, shall create a presuny
as or articles are intended for sale or distributiﬂs
all be rebuttable.

122

Waywaonisconvictedofan'olstieneftﬁs court
mtdoonwcttonma baddiﬁonwtbepenahypttrﬁ'bzd.ﬂd:

(W June 23. ms. c. m. t 3. 69 Stat. its.)

mm

W 5 Text. ‘This Act”. "I’m I‘ll-the I'll." .
phmemMJumu.t9ss,¢, and of 'MW' history
no. 69 Stat. 183. which amended auction m A“ "mt 28. ”35. see 1935

not a this title and added this section "5““ 0‘“- md MmNm. p. we.

West‘s Federal Forms
”tenor and ﬁne. see§ 753) et seq

Library References

“entity 97.
C15. (necessity 5 7.

NOtuOfDeddons

l-trnetioas 3d
llteltorhowled'e

Adaiaslbnityofevideace 32
muddle-s: 6

[hasten-Member“ 7
' )6

Wu deride-cc
Generally 27
c e _. 0. a

Imam
Pennaslhble l4
Panacea". 1 1,
FM m 37 s
Won: 3
Munch-arch .1."
Publietrial 2] ”d 17
Punish-eat 35
:ft‘roaeti diam 2‘
re ectdfubd.‘ lied“

Search-declare 3

Generally 15

C-Isent I‘

Probableeaase I7
Maxim-35
”Va-WWW”

bymm. ‘.. '
malaiintﬂmumm:
Wormwood-rum
123 ' '

 




 

  

 

Vol. 5 No. 2

  

Summer 1985

 

THE TALE OF
THE UNICORN

The Ringling Brothers, Barnum and
Bailey Circus arrived in New York City
in late March for its annual visit and,
with much fanfare, unveiled a new act
— the “Living Unicorn."

The press, concerned as well as
intrigued, asked the ASPCA whether
the horn of the so—called “unicorn"
was natural or a transplant, and whe-
ther or not the animal was currently
in pain. ASPCA Special Agent Gwen
George was assigned to investigate.1

The circus manager, Robert Mac-
Dougal, escorted Agent George to a
caged one-horned goat, but she was
not allowed to remove it from its cage
and, therefore, she could not look
underneath a leather sheath covering
the horn, ostensibly because the
goat’s trainer was not available and
the goat might not be controllable
without him. MacDougal suggested
that Agent George return the next day
for a fuller inspection.

When Agent George returned,
circus officials refused all entry to
the goats’ holding area despite the
ASPCA’s New York State authority to
investigate complaintsthatallege ani-
mal cruelty.

ASPCA President John Kullberg
and Dr. Mary Keating, an ASPCA
veterinarian, accompanied by mem-
bers of the Society’s Law Enforce-
ment Department, visited the circus a
third time with the intent of initiating
legal action should the circus not
allow the investigation to proceed.
The threat of legal action and wid-
ening media interest as to why circus
officials were not cooperating with
the ASPCA apparently convinced
MacDougal to allow Dr. Keating to
examine visually the horns of three of
the goats. These goats were wheeled
out to Dr. Keating in individual wire-

   

 

mesh cages slightly larger in size than
the animals themselves.

At first, the circus’ handler would
not remove the leather sheaths cover—
ing the horns. Finally, after a heated
ASPCA protest, the sheaths were re—
moved. Dr. Keating was limited, how-
ever, to looking through the mesh
sides of each cage, aided only by a
ﬂashthL

While this far from adequate exam
was in progress, Kullberg asked about
a curtained area, off limits to the
ASPCA. Despite some reluctance by
circus officials, one of the curtains
was opened disclosing an uncaged
Lancelot, the star circus “unicorn.” Dr.
Keating quickly took advantage of this
opportunity to examine Lancelot’s
horn.

H.F. Fay

Clrcus Stonewalllng

Based on her visual and hands-on
inspection, Dr. Keating hypothesized
that Lancelot’s horn could be the result
of an implant — or worse yet — that it
could be an artificial horn glued or
otherwise fastened directly to the
goat’s skull. Without the aid of an
x-ray, however, a definitive diagnosis
was impossible. Circus officials re-
fused to permit an x-ray, nor would
they confirm or deny her tentative diag-
nosis. When Dr. Keating requested the
professional courtesy of speaking with
the circus veterinarian, that, too, was
denied.

Given these findings and a determin-
ed and hardening lack of cooperation
from circus officials, and since any
helpful court action could take months

(Continued on page 14)

   

 

  

 
 




(Unicorn continued)

(and media interest was immediately
available), a decision was made to
make the ASPCA’s preliminary find-
ings public with the hope that the cir-
cus, sensitive to public concern, would
respond more quickly to ASPCA ques-
tions and remedy any inhumane condi-
tions. Kullberg therefore reported the
ASPCA’s tentative findings to a large
contingent of waiting press represen-
tatives and television crews.

Kullberg also called for a national
circus boycott until the circus was
more forthcoming about the animals
it was handling and exhibiting to the
public. And, if the circus could not dis-
prove the ASPCA’s preliminary diag-
nosis of possible surgical implant,
Kullberg proposed a continuation of
the boycott until the circus agreed to
refrain from future exhibits of what he
characterized as “surgically-induced

freak shows.” The circus chose to -

remain uncooperative.

Several days later, the US. Depart-
ment of Agriculture (USDA), at the
request of the ASPCA, examined the
goats in order to determine whether
the circus was in violation Of any of
the regulations of the Federal Animal
Welfare Act. USDA officials concluded
that these animals had been surgically
altered, but they judged that the goats
were not, at the time of examination,
in pain. _

The circus, still protesting that the
goats were not surgically altered,
hired two veterinarians from the Uni-
versity of Pennsylvania to examine
the horns and — eight days after the
ASPCA's first request for x—rays —
one of the horns was x-rayed. Amid
great circus fanfare, the press was
invited to witness these two veterina-
rians enthusiastically declare the goats
“living unicorns,” since they defined
any animal with a single horn, however
derived, as a “unicorn.”2 Fudging on
the surgical implant issue, the veteri—
narians simply said the horns were
not currently causing the goats any
pain.

World-Wide interest

During this ten-day period, press
coverage was enormous. Literally
millions of people learned about the
goat-unicorns. Every major American
television network covered the story
in prime time and camera crews from
Britain, Australia and Japan were sent
to cover daily developments.

14

The Surgery
How had the goats been altered?

Enter now two “wizards," Californians -

Morning Glory and Otter G’zelie.
They live in a hut high in the Mendo-
cino County hills and they admitted
to having altered the goats surgically,
probably using a method described
in 1934 by Dr. William Dove of the
University of Maine. The Californians,
understandably, refused to elaborate
on the process.

The surgical procedure appears to
involve slicing a small portion off
each ot the horn buds of a day-old
goat, grafting each of the larger sec-
tions together and implanting the
graft below the scalp in the center of
the goat’s forehead. Some descrip-
tions of the procedure also note that
the original sites of the horn buds are
cauterized (burned) afterthe buds
are removed. A herd of these goats
has been seen in California and sev-
eral have been exhibited throughout
the state. These, and the four goats
examined by the ASPCA and now
under contract to Ringling Brothers,
are products of the Morning Glory
—Otter G’zelle procedure.

The issues

First, were the goats in pain? Prob-
ably not when they were being exam-
ined by ASPCA, USDA and University
of Pennsylvania veterinarians. We can
only speculate on the pain they may
have suffered during and after the
grafting operation.

Second, are animals displayed in
circuses abused in terms of housing,
transportation and training? No one,
except the ASPCA, has addressed
the discomfort that the goats are
probably suffering while confined to
the small cages that are their homes
when they are not on stage. They

were observed thrashing their single .

horns against the wire mesh sides
and tops of the cages. The leather
sheaths covering their horns are
probably intended to minimize any
cosmetic damage to the horns result—
ing from the goats” agitated move-
ments.

Third, should any animal be altered
surgically, solely to provide the public
with entertainment and the circus
with profits? The ASPCA’s position
(and that of many other humane
societies and veterinarians) is un-
equivocally “no.”

Follow-up

Since the veterinary examination
did not support an allegation that the
goats are now in pain as a result of the
horn-bud surgery, the ASPCA was
unable to press cruelty to animal
charges under New York State‘iaw.
But the ASPCA’s investigation into
what is going on in California and
elsewhere is continuing.

in the interim, the ASPCA is draft-
ing an amendment to the Federal
Animal Welfare Act that would make it
illegal to alter surgically or in any way
mutilate an animal that is to be used
for entertainment purposes. in addi—
tion, the wording of the existing
Animal Welfare Act needs to be clari-
fied to overcome USDA confusion as
to the limits of its authority over exhi-
bition animals. This confusion was
evident when the USDA at first
refused to assist the ASPCA with the
circus investigation.

The legislative process is a lengthy
one, but without legal remedies for
this kind of cruel and senseless
exploitation, we could, in the future,
be teased for our amusement dollars
with a surgically or genetically engi-
neered “Cyclops” or “Pegasus” as a
follow-up to what the circus itself
describes as its successful “unicorn"
promotion.

We will keep you informed of rele-
vant developments. in the interim,
one way of letting circus officials
know of your concern is to stay away
from their surgically-induced animal
extravaganzas and let them know
why.

1. Because of the general nature of the “unicorn" com-
plaint, ASPCA investigators were unable to obtain
court search and seizure warrants, and were therefore
principally dependent upon circus cooperation.

2. Fortunately. many veterinarians are concerned
about such surgically-induced changes. The Mary-
land Veterinary Medicai Association, for example, in
December, 1983, issued a statement questioning the-
justitication of unnecessary medical surgery and
opposing any surgery intended to deceive the public
into believing that a domesticated goat or any other
animal was a "unicorn."

 

., : “SAVE THE DATE! ,

, Monday, October 21 . "
1985 Fall Benefit Dinner Dance
Rainbow Room, Rookefeller Center
"9" (New York City)

 

!_____.

ASPCA Report/Summer 1985

 




THE AMERICAN HUMANE ASSOCIATION

SAVAGE OF THE CANNIBAL GODS
New Line Cinema 7

TIGER'S CLAW
Transcontinental Films

THE CHISOLMS
Alan Landsburg Productions

PROPHECY
Paramount Pictures

ARABIAN NIGHTS
United Artists

FIST OF FURY, PART II
let Century Dist.

MR. MIKE'S MONDO VIDEO
New Line Cinema

APOCALYPSE NOW
United Artists

THE BLACK COBRA
Aurora Films

1980

THE MOUNTAIN MEN
Columbia Pictures

TOM HORN
Warner Bros.

THE LION SPEAKS
Canada Global Films

TUNDRA
Great Circle Films

THE LONG RIDERS
United Artists .

SOUTHERN COMFORT
Cinema GP/Phoenix Production

1981

LEGEND OF THE LONE RANGER
Martin Starger Productions

from Carmelita Pope
AHA Hollywood, Ca.

UNACCEPTABLE‘LIST

Monkey, Iguana and Tarantula killed.

Hawk killed.

Rabbits and ducks killed.

Raccoon beaten and traumatized.

Bird killed with sword in close up.

Live bird fed to a cheetah.
Cats thrown into a swimming pool.
Water buffalo hacked to pieces.

Live snake sliced into pieces.

Horses wire-tripped.

Horse tripped into a somerSault.
Extensive killing of wild animals.
Many animals killed, hunting film.
Horses wire-tripped.

Pigs slaughtered on camera.

Horses wire-tripped

 

 




LION OF THE DESERT
Falcon International Productions

MOMENTS OF TRUTH
Archer Productions

HEAVEN'S GATE
United Artists

CROCODILE
Cobra Media Dist.

THE SNAKEFIST VS. THE DRAGON
21st Century Dist.

HEARTLAND
Wilderness Women/Film Haus Prods.

REDS
Paramount Pictures

1982

CONAN, THE BARBARIAN
Dino DeLaurentiis

FIRST BLOOD
Anabasis N.V. Productions

1983

TRIUMPHS OF A MAN CALLED HORSE
Sandy Howard Productions
SUBURBIA

Roger Corman/Bert Dragin Prods.

NEVER SAY NEVER AGAIN '
'Warner Bros.

1984

ANTARCTICA
20th Classics
Twentieth Century Fox

CONAN THE DESTROYER
Universal Pictures

HEART OF THE STAG .
Reynolds/Firth Production

YELLOWHAIR AND THE FORTRESS OF GOLD
Crown International Pictures

.Horses wire—tripped.

Killing of wild animals throughout.

Horses tripped, injured, and killed.
Illegal cockfight staged. Cattle and
chickens bled to get real blood to
smear on actors.

CroCodile slashed with knife.
Monkey and snake fighting.
Pig shot and butchered.

Horses wire-tripped.

Horses tripped and other animals
physically abused.

Rats killed.

Horses tripped.

Dogs tripped.

Horse dumped from high platform into
water.

Seal attacked by pack of dogs. Dog falls
from ice cliff. Bird killed and eaten by
two dogs. Dog caught under sled runner.

Dog falls into.crevice in the ice, struggles
against ice floe.

Camel and horse wire-tripped.

Deer died of stress during filming.

Several horses wire-tripped.

 

 

 




$.11:

CONVENTION ON INTERNATIONAL TRADE IN ENDANGERED SPECIES
OF WILD FAUNA AND FLORA

Sixth Meeting of the Conference of the Parties
Ottawa (Canada), 12 to 24 July 1987

 

PROPOSAL BY THE REPUBLIC OF PERU ON
VICUNA

"IJN/

“hm“SOIr'Tp 91..

Background paper prepared by the
INTERNATIONAL FUND FOR ANIMAL WELFARE

 




BACKGROUND PAPER

 

Prepared by

THE INTERNATIONAL FUND FOR ANIMAL WELFARE

 

(I.F.A.W.)

The vicuna lives in the rangeland (Puna) of the Central Andes, South
America. It was extremely abundant, possibly several million in pre—
Columbian times, but by 1965, because of over—exploitation for its
valuable wool, the numbers were reduced to something like 6,000 animals.
The action taken after that is one of the most dramatic success stories

in the history of wildlife conservation but, at the same time, perhaps

the most paradoxical! At the meeting of the Survival Service Commission
of the International Union for the Conservation of Nature, just prior

to the CITES meeting in Costa Rica in March 1979, Dr. Marc Dourojeanni
gave a detailed briefing on the status of the vicuna in Peru. Populations
had made a very significant comeback but, he alleged, that severe drought
had reduced the carrying capacity of the range and threatened a number

of animals. It was further alleged that due to over—population and
over—grazing many thousands of animals might starve to death. He said
that the cost of translocation were very high, in spite of the fact

that no experiments had been carried out. ~He persuaded the SSC

that it would be necessary to harvest the surplus herd in order to

obtain the wool and other products. Before entering these legally

into international trade the Peruvian population would have to be transferred
from Appendix I to Appendix II of CITES. The SSC agreed to this but

due to the intervention of Dr. Felipe Benavides at the CITES meeting

which ﬁﬂlowed, this proposal which later proved to be something of

a scientific hoax, was defeated. Later that year in November, two
experts, Mr. Tony Morrison, a world authority on the biology of the Andes,
and a distinguished wildlife veterinarian surgeon, Dr.

William Jordan,

were accompanied by Ian MacPhail of IFAW on an investigation of the facts.

Continued on p. 75 2

 

 

 




 

 

PROBLEMS IN MANAGEMENT
OF LOCALLY ABUNDANT WILD
MAMMALS

Edited by

PETER A. jEWELL
SIDNEY HOLT

St. Johns’ College
Cambridge, United Kingdom

Associate Editor

DONNA HART

International I'VundjOr Animal [Mil/are
Yarmoutlz Port, Massachusetts

1981

ACADEMIC PRESS

A Subsidiary of Harcourt Brace Jovanovich, Publishers

New York London

Paris San Diego San Francisco Sao Paulo Sydney Tokyo Toronto

 




 

 

CONTRIBUTORS

Numbers in parentheses indicate the pages on which the authors’ contributions begin.

John R. Beddington (205), International Institute for Environment and
Development, London W1, England

R. H. V. Bell (69), Department of National Parks and Wildlife, Kasungu
National Park, Kasungu, Malawi

Graeme Caughley (7), Division of Wildlife Research, CSIRO, Lyneham, Can-
berra, A. C. T. 2602, Australia

Douglas G. Chapman (193), Center for Quantitative Science, University of
Washington, Seattle, Washington 98195

Stephen Cobb (181), Department of Zoology, University of Nairobi, Nairobi,
Kenya

David H. M. Cumming (91), Department of National Parks and Wildlife
Management, Causeway, Salisbury, Zimbabwe

W. D. Densham (21), Natal Parks Board, Pietermaritzburg, South Africa

S. K. Eltringham (277), Department of Applied Biology, University of Cam-
bridge, CBZ 3DX, England

James A. Estes (167), National Fish and Wildlife Laboratory, Center for
Coastal Marine Studies, University of California, Santa Cruz, California
95064

John Hanks (21), Institute of Natural Resources, Pietermaritzburg, South
Africa

John Harwood (151), Natural Environment Research Council, Sea Mammal
Research Unit, Cambridge CB3 0E T, England

R. K. Hofmann (259), Proyecto Vicuna, Nazca, Peru

J. F. Jooste (21), Cape Department of Nature and Environmental Conserva-
tion, Stellenbosch, South Africa 4

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

CONTRIBUTORS

W. J. Jordan (277), People ’5 Trust for Endangered Species, Guildford, Surrey
GU1 3EH, England

S. C. J. Joubert (21), National Parks Board of Trustees, Skukuza, Kruger
National Park, South Africa

David R. Klein (119), Alaska Cooperative Wildlife Research Unit, University
of Alaska, Fairbanks, Alaska 99701

David M. Lavigne (151), Department of Zoology, University of Guelph,
Guelph, Ontario, NIG 2W1, Canada

Richard M. Laws (217), British Antarctic Survey, Natural Environment
Research Council, Cambridge CB3 7PX, England

Burney J. Le Boeuf (291), Crown College, University of California, Santa
Cruz, California 95064

P. le Roux (21), Orange Free State Division of Nature Conservation, Bloem-
fontein, South Africa

Robert M. May (205), Department of Biology, Princeton University, Prince-
ton, New Jersey 08544

P. leS. Milstein (21), Transvaal Nature Conservation Division, Pretoria, South
Africa

Imanuel Noy-Meir (233), Botany Department, The Hebrew University,
Jerusalem, Israel

K. C. Otte (259), Proyecto Vicuna, Nazca, Peru

Norman Owen-Smith (129), Center for Resource Ecology, Department of
Botany, University of the Witwatersrand, Johannesburg 2001, South
Africa

G. Carleton Ray (303), Department of Environmental Sciences, University of
Virginia, Charlottesville, Virginia 22903

A. R. E. Sinclair (247), Institute of Animal Resource Ecology, University of
British Columbia, Vancouver, British Columbia V6R 1W5, Canada

G. L. Smuts (21), Natal Parks Board, Pietermaritzburg, South Africa

Brian H. Walker (57), Center for Resource Ecology, Department of Botany,
University of the Witwatersrand, Johannesburg 2001, South Africa

 




 

 

 

 

 

FOREWORD

The suggestion for the international workshop of which this book is the
outcome was made by Sidney Holt at a meeting of the Species Survival Commis—
sion of the International Union for the Conservation of Nature and Natural
Resources (IUCN) in Cambridge, England, in mid-1979. One of us (PS) having
drafted a position paper for lUCN on the implications of habitat destruction by
elephants in certain East African national parks, had been requested to broaden
the statement to cover other situations, and specifically that of the vicuna in the
Pampa Galeras Reserve in the Andes of Peru. Discussions of this by the Species
Survival Commission revealed sharply how far we were from clear definition of
such problems, and still further from their solution. Meanwhile, the
International Fund for Animal Welfare was beginning to question the basis for
the widespread belief that intervention of one kind or the other was, in fact,
necessary.

The workshop that emerged from subsequent organization and consultation
was an important first step on the path toward reasonable and humane
treatment of certain animals and ecosystems that are under human care.

We feel the organizations with which we are associated have been well served
by those scientists who agreed to contribute their time and energy to this project.
They and others will inevitably continue the field studies and refine the scientific
concepts. It is now up to those of us who are engaged in public interest
organizations and in management of protected areas to clarify our minds on
policy issues, to ensure that scientific advice is made available, and to monitor

the effects of human interventions of all kinds in living systems, as well as of
natural events on those systems.

Brian D. Davies
Executive Director, Intcmatzmzal Fzmdfbr Animal ”leg/fa”

Peter Scott
(ffzaz‘mzan, ”hr/d HEM/{ﬂ Fund

 

 




 

 

 

INTRODUCTION

Is wildlife ever too abundant? A great many species of
animals, once widespread and numerous, have been so reduced
by man's activities in changing the face of the earth that
they now survive in only a few small populations. Among
these animals are many of the world's larger and most attrac—
tive mammals. All too many of these species are threatened
with extinction.

While this is so, it is an irony that these small popu-
lations may become, apparently, locally overabundant and
create intense problems. The "elephant problem" is one of
the best known examples. Conservationists are faced with the
dilemma of a species in urgent need of protection over most
of its range, which occurs in such abnormally large numbers
in certain limited areas that the need to cull, perhaps by
killing, must be considered.

Is there any way out of this dilemma? What advice can
scientists who work in this field, particularly ecologists,
offer?

I. BACKGROUND

The International Fund for Animal Welfare, which has en-
gaged in several Operations to translocate wild animals as an
alternative to killing them, organized and funded a workshop to
9001 the apprOpriate experiences of ecologists. (The suggestion
for this workshop was made at a meeting of the Species Survival
Commission of the International Union for the Conservation of
Nature and Natural Resources held in Cambridge, England in mid-
1979.)

As first viewed, the central task of the workshop was to
consider the dilemma of local overabundance of threatened
mammals, but it was recognized that this concept could lead
to too narrow an approach. For one thing, to speak of "over"
abundance prejudges the issue. Furthermore, while threatened
Species present the real worries, many species that are not
endangered do become excessively abundant locally and do provide?

 




 

 

 

lNTRODUCTKﬂQ

valuable case histories. Hence the broader title of the work-
sho 1—- "The Management of Locally Abundant Wild Mammals: A
workshop on the need for and alternatives to the culling of wild
animals." The purpose of the workshop was defined as a forum
for the discussion of the problems which can arise when man—
made changes permit a species to become so numerous locally it
seems to have an adverse effect on its food supply, its compete
itors, or even the species composition of the ecosystem. This
objective statement hides a host of problems that are of press-
ing urgency for those concerned with the conservation of wild
animals and their welfare. In particular the question of cull-
ing -— in whatever form it might take F- was the central issue.
As used in this volume, culling is defined as the selective
removal of animals from a pOpulation. Removal may be by killing
or by live capture and subsequent transportation of animals
elsewhere (either translocation to other areas of natural habin
tat or for confinement in zoos and parks).

. Large numbers of certain
species have been killed to reduce their population density and
their impact on some other facet of the environment. Such
action is an extremely onerous and unpalatable task for con»
servationists. In some places even relatively rare or threat—
ened mammals have been culled by killing in the very reserves
originally set aside for their protection. Examples are hippo-
potamus in Uganda, nyala in South Africa, elephant in many
African countries, vicuna in Peru, and grey seals in Britain.
Even if they were not classified as rare, many other spectac-
ular mammals have been involved. This drastic intervention, in
attempts to manage wildlife areas, presents those in charge
with an agonizing dilemma.

III. THE NECESSITY FOR ACTION

removal, will in fact significantly lower local abundance and
effectively ameliorate the conflict of known interests, in-
cluding undesired changes in the environment. A proposal to
cull by killing may also be seen simply as an easy (and only
short—term) "solution" to a social or ecological problem. Even
if culling could provide a solution, it may be that other man-
agement actions could have an equivalent effect; such actions
would include manipulation of the habitat in some way, or
"scaring" or "herding” which would cause the animals to dis-
perse or to remove themselves, perhaps selectively, from the
localities of high density. Physically transporting animal5
to another locality within a protected area may also be an
option when there are either geographical or behavioral

impediments to natural dispersal around the area of high den-
sity. 8

It may be quite uncertain whether culling, i.e., selective B




THE DEBATE ABOUT THE VICUNA POPULATION
IN PAMPA GALERAS RESERVE

K. C. Otte
R. K. Hofmann

Proyecto Vicuna
Nazca
Peru 1

V. MONITORING/RESEARCH

There is a danger that information will be collected for
its own sake and not applied in management. The consequence
then is the same as a policy of noninterference. There is
also the problem that newly appointed local staff will wish
to demonstrate their independence by interfering in manage—
ment plans without considering the knowledge built up by
former managers. This is what has happened over the past two
years in the Pampa Galeras Reserve, where decisions made by
the newly installed Executive Director of the Vicuna Management
Project are endangering the survival of the species.

Enlargement of the management area has always been, and
remains, a principal objective of the Project. The "artificial"
overabundance of Vicuna in the Pampa Galeras, now requiring
emergency action, has been created by the administrative

_ inefficiency of the Peruvian direction, exacerbated by three

consecutive years of drought.

C. Recommendations

As the latter are
at Present unknown, it is recommended that experimental culling
should be practiced with deliberate overharvesting of stocks
in some areas to create vacuum or buffer zones but leaving
other areas completely untouched. This recommendation was
made to the Peruvian government some years ago but, unfor-
tunately, so far there has been no response.

Translocation from areas of high density to ec010gically
more suitable regions is a feasible solution only if the
numbers involved are manageable and suitable resettlement
areas are within reasonable distances of 50 to 150 km (i.e.;
within a day's drive in a truck) from Pampa Galeras. The
only region to which translocation over a greater distance
would be justified is the newly established National Reserve
0f Aguada Blanca near Arequipa. _ 9

 




 

THE VICUNA OF THE PAMPA GALERAS NATIONAL RESERVE
THE CONSERVATION ISSUE

S. K. Eltringham

Department of Applied Biology
University of Cambridge
Cambridge
England

W. J. Jordan

People's Trust for Endangered Species
Guildford, Surrey
England

I. INTRODUCTION

The policy of the
Project is set out by Hofmann and Otte (1977); once numbers
have built up to a suitable level, the principal intention is
to round up the vicuna every two years, shear them, and release
them back into the wild. The profits from the venture, which
would be under state control, would be used tt>improve facilities
for the local people. Mention is also made of the possibility
of translocating vicuna to other suitable regions. In optimally
stocked areas some game cropping is contemplated, yielding fur-
ther income through hides and meat. It is not proposed to do—
mesticate vicuna or to interbreed them with llamas or alpacas.

Our conclusion is that although cropping of vicuna could be
unexceptional on conservation grounds provided rigid control is
exercised, it is fraught with dangers that make it inadvisable.
We believe that shearing would be a far safer form of exploita-
tion and probably more lucrative in the long run. We are uncer-
tain of the effect of shearing on the survival of vicuna in the
very cold environment, but we assume that research into this
problem has been or will be carried out.

A. Is the POpulation Large Enough to Crop?

There is no doubt that vicuna have recovered very consider-
ably in the Pampa Galeras Reserve and adjacent management zones.
According to Brack (1980), the population increased from 1,000
in 1967 to 43,471 in 1979. However, it transpires that most Of

this increase is artificial and due to periodic inclusion of
fresh regions into the census areas.

The aerial total has been dismissed as useless, but it
serves to cast doubt on the ground totals given by Brack. 10

 

—‘, ~71.-

 




ﬂAﬁ—qk

 

—‘v\_i

 

VICUNA—THE CONSERVATION ISSUE

TABLE I. Annual Totals of Vicuna in the Pampa Galeras
Reserve and Neighboring Regionsa

 

1976 1977 1978 1979

 

Zona Nuclear

Total 17388 18006 23716 20475
Annual dif—

ference + 618 + 5710 - 3241
Percentage

difference + 3.6% + 31.7% - 13.7%
Annual incre-

ment 2 5.6%

Zona de Influencia

Total 7060 9614 12486 19661
Annual dif—

ference + 2554 + 2872 + 7175
Percentage

difference + 36.2% + 29.9% + 57.5%

Annual incre—
ment = 40.7%

Both Zones

Total 24448 27620 36202 40136
Annual dif—

ference + 3172 + 8582 4 3934
Percentage

difference + 13.0% + 31.1% + 10.9%

Annual incre—
ment 2 18.0%

 

aAccording to corrected data taken from Brack (1980).

Because of the improbability of the reported increases in
Vicuna numbers, Brack's data have been subjected to a computer
analysis. This was carried out by J. R. Beddington of the

University of York.
Brack gives no evidence for the existence

Of immigration (e.g., no animals were marked or followed), and
it is difficult to see how immigrants could be recognized and
distinguished from residents. One might also wonder from where
the immigrants came and why there has been a progressively
increasing tendency to migrate.

In View of the many inconsistencies, it must be concluded
that the ground count results given by Brack (1980) are
unreliable and should not be used in estimating the maximum
sustained yield that may be taken from the population. 11

 

 




B. Is Culling Necessary for Ecological Reasons?

Brack states that the cull of 3,000
from family groups is necessary in order to finance the project;
however, if conservation groups wish to save these 3,000 vicuna,
a sum of $300,000 must be paid for the capture and translocation
program as well as to recompense the local people. He advocates,
therefore, the removal of only 7,000 vicuna for ecological
reasons since, if the necessary ransom is paid, the other 3,000
would be spared. The proposal to shoot several thousand of a
vulnerable species in order to finance the translocation of
others is not one that would appeal to many conservationists and
is a dubious management principle. Surely it would be possible
to raise the necessary finances without resorting to crude
ultimata of this nature. No proposals were made by Brack to
reduce the number of vicuna in the Zona de Influcencia.

Evidence of overpopulation that would justify the culling
of a protected species must be convincing and should be sought
in the state of the vegetation and in the condition of the
animals themselves. The proposal to cull vicuna raised inter-
national protests as well as Opposition from conservation
bodies, notably PRODENA, within Peru. As a result, IUCN and the
World Wildlife Fund (WWF) dispatched a consultant, Archie
Mossman, to Peru to report on the matter. He spent June 26 to
29, 1979 in the Pampa Galeras Reserve. His visit was followed
in August by that of Major Ian Grimwood, an IUCN consultant,
and Charles de Haes, Director-General of WWF, both of whom
conferred with the Peruvian authorities in Lima although they
did not visit the Reserve. Having considered the reports of
their representatives, IUCN and WWF gave their full support
to the cull (IUCN, 1979). Mossman maintained that the range—
land was in a very bad state over the whole area and that its
condition was declining. However, he did not go far from the
Reserve Headquarters during his short visit because of altitude
sickness. He did not carry out a proper survey of the vegeta—
tion nor did he attempt to count the animals. Nevertheless, he
considered that Brack's population estimates were probably
valid.

In View of the continuing controversy, IFAW asked W. J.
Jordan to visit the Pampa Galeras to report, as a veterinary
surgeon, on the status of the vicuna and to evaluate the
feasibility of translocation. His visit was made in November
1979. No evidence was found to indicate that the vicuna were
in any way in bad condition. Large numbers were carefully
observed at close range and all appeared to be fit and healthy,
raising their heads rapidly on approach and regarding the ob~
server with bright eyes and erect ears. Movements of the body
were deliberate, rapid, and alert. The animals moved with
no signs of weakness, lifting their limbs and taking steps in
a purposeful manner. Animals weak from starvation often stumble
but despite the uneven terrain, which contains many tussocks
and large stones, the vicuna walked quickly and smoothly. There'ﬂ

 

 

 




 

 

was no tendency to sway slightly as is usually the case with
weak animals. All the vicuna observed were feeding and appeared
to have no difficulty in locating food. No carcasses were seen,
despite the assertion by Brack that large numbers had died, nor
was there any Sign of the predicted outbreak of disease.

These observations give no support to Brack‘s contentiOn,
(repeated in the IUCN report) that the vicuna in the Pampa
Galeras Reserve are in danger of starvation and that large
numbers need to be culled for their own good,

We are not competent to comment on the condition of the
rangeland vegetation. It is reported to be declining in cover,
and although this may well be so, it does not necessarily follow
that the reduction is a result of grazing pressure from vicuna,
This species feeds by biting the hard vegetation with its sharp,
open—rooted incisors, it does not pull plants up by the roots.
It walks on pads and does not have sharp hooves to cut up the
sward. Any damage to the vegetation is more likely to be
caused by the domestic sheep, goats, and cattle which share the
range. It must also be borne in mind that the region has
experienced several years of drought and any reduction in the
vegetation could be a direct result of lowered rainfall.

Despite the drought, all springs examined during the visit
made in November were flowing although it was the end of the
dry season.

Our conclusion, therefore, is that no evidence exists to
suggest that vicuna need to be culled for their own good. The
fact that numbers have increased or that vegetation has de-
clined is not necessarily indicative of overpOpulation. It is
more likely that the vicuna population is still rising toward
its carrying capacity. The only evidence that the carrying
capacity may have been reached is the decline in numbers
recorded by Brack (1980) between 1978 and 1979 in the Zona
Nuclear. He cites this as a reason for culling vicuna, but
it could more reasonably be interpreted as a sign that the
vicuna are regulating their own numbers and the population
will stabilize without management interference.

Worldwide, the vicuna is still classified as an endangered

s ecies. ‘ . .
p Vicuna wool is one of the finest animal fibers

known, and part of the resulting financial benefit could be
used for the translocation of surplus vicunas to other con—
servation areas. '
Eltringham discussed the use of aerial surveys as a diag-
nostic tool to monitor changes in density over time. He
Pointed out that aerial counts, even if inaccurate, can at
least be used as indices to reveal changes in numbers or
trends in abundance over time. He also noted that changes in
density may be more important than changes in absolute numbers.
In the case of the vicuna, Eltringham felt it was not
Clear whether the population was being cropped to produce
revenue for the local residents as compensation for allowing
the vicuna to increase in numbers, or culled to overcome a 13

 




 

perceived problem of local abundance. Reference was made, in
connection with the second alternative, to a paper by A. Brack
(Executive Director of the Vicuna Management Project) which
argued that culling was necessary to avoid a major catastrophe,
not only to Vicuna but also to other ungulates including domes-
tic species and to the local people.

It appeared to the workshop participants that the Vicuna
operation in Peru was related to animal production for wool,
skins, and meat, and therefore was not relevant to our dis-
cussion. The Vicuna have, with the cessation of predation,
apparently increased in abundance, and have exhibited several
density-dependent responses. There was no evidence that this
would lead to catastrophic effects and no unequivocal evidence
has been presented to show that culling is necessary to prevent
"overpopulation."

III. CONCLUSIONS

A. Cropping

We accept that it would be possible to crOp Vicuna for
meat and hides, but we do not believe that this is a wise pol—

icy for reasons given above. A successful cropping operation
requires more information than is presently available to assess
the maximum sustained yield. In view of the doubts cast on the

numbers of Vicuna present in the Reserve, estimates of the
population size should be obtained by at least two different
techniques. If an income has to be generated from the Vicuna,
we recommend the population should be exploited by shearing.

“HDRKSHCH’REPORT

VI. SYNTHESIS BY DISCUSSION GROUPS

A. Points of Agreement

(12) Political or economic reasons for culling should not
be obscured by irrelevant scientific excuses.

(13) Scientific evidence is unlikely ever to be so strong
that areas of uncertainty and disagreement are eliminated;
general rules will not invariably apply.

14

 

 

 

 




 

 

Contrary to Dr. Dourojeanni's allegations of excessive drought and
starvation due to overgrazing, none of the corpses of the "thousands"
of animals were found, there was no evidence of even a mild drought

and all the animals observed were grazing successfully and showed no
signs of starvation or sickness. On further investigation in the Pampa
Galeras Headquarters created by German technical aid, this investigative
party discovered a sophisticated slaughterhouse, chilling and deep
freezing plant and an expensive refrigerator truck. This was later

to be referred to by one distinguished scientist as the "final solution
for the vicunas”! In spite of there being no evidence to justify a
cull on humane grounds, an extensive programme was entered into, with
the support of IUCN and the World Wildlife Fund. This was carried

out by inexperienced marksmen with the result that the animals suffered
considerable cruelty. Some were shot in the lung and sometimes the
stomach so as not to damage the heart which fetched high prices as

a local delicacy. Many wounded vicuna ran from the hunters in agony
with intestines hanging out; this was referred to locally and jokingly
as "the dance of death". IFAW would not tolerate this and asked its
thousands of supporters all over the world to write to the Peruvian
Ambassador in-ﬂEﬁrcountry asking for an end to the cruel and pointless
slaughter. As a result of this pressure the killing was halted by

the order of the Peruvian President; this move was supported by IUCN
and the World Wildlife Fund. It was later proved that there were no
scientific grounds whatsoever for this cull of 8,045 animals, 39% of
which were pregnant females. Thus one of the most unscientific and

cruel culls of a rare species ended in the history books.

Last year experiments were carried out in capturing vicuna and 30 were
successfully moved to the Lima Zoo. Four females were found to be
Pregnant on arrival and have since given birth to healthy young animals.
Successful shearing experiments were carried out by New Zealand experts.
The cost of tranportation was the cost of petrol. The Peruvian proposal

to capture, shear and weave the wool into fine vicuna cloth in Peru,

Continued overleaf 15

 




therefore, augurs well, not only for the future of the vicuna, but

for the peasants who have waited so patiently for some recompense for
allowing their lands to be used. Aesop warned against the folly of
killing the goose that laid the golden eggs. Today it is equal folly
to kill the animal that grows the golden fleece because it is much
more valuable alive than dead! The case against culling as an alternative
to the Peruvian proposal was rquJ at a Workshop financed by IFAW
called "Problems in Management of locally abundant Wild Manmals" which
was held in Cape Cod in mid—1979. The relevant extracts about the
vicuna may be read in this background paper. The conclusion of the
distinguished international scientists who attended the Workshop was
that "We accept that it would be possible to crop vicuna for meat and

hides but we do not believe that this is a wise policy. A successful

cropping operation requires more information than is presently available

to assess the maximum sustained yield. In view of the doubts cast

on the number of vicuna at present in the Reserve, estimates of the
population size should be obtained by at least two different techniques.
If an income has to be generated from the vicuna we recommend the
population should be exploited by shearing. Political or economic
reasons for culling should not be obscured by irrelevant scientific
excuses. Scientific evidence is unlikely ever to be so strong that

areas of uncertainty and disagreement are eliminated; general rules will

not invariably apply."

IAN S. MACPHAIL
JULY 1987. EUROPEAN COORDINATOR, IFAW
HON.EUROPEAN REPRESENTATIVE, PERUVIAN VICUNA COMMISSION

 




  ET
EACTSHEET

Atnirnzil
Experiments #16

 

 

PEOPLE FOR THE ETHICAL
TREATMENT OF ANIMALS
P.0. BOX 42516
WASHINGTON, DC 20015
(301)770-PETA

 

 

BIOLOGICAL SUPPLY COMPANIES:
CRUELTY FOR THE CLASSROOM

 

Carolina Biological Supply Company
(CBSC) is a major supplier of animals used
in dissection—it is certainly the largest in
the United States. Now in its 63rd ear of
operation, the company grosses 25-30
million in annual sales, every year turn-
ing many thousands of animals into
“specimens” for sale to schools in the
United States and abroad. Animals pre-
served at CBSC include cats dogs, rab.
bits, rats, mice, farm animals, amphib-
ians, reptiles, marine animals, birds, and
ﬁsh. The come to CBSC from catteries,
pounds, umane societies, slaughter-
houses, pet stores, and individuals, some
of whom are licensed through the United
States Department of Agriculture (USDA)
as Class B Dealers.

Re orts of abusive animal handling,
cruel illing methods, and allegations
concerning Stolen pets prompted PETA’s
investigation of CBSC, which lasted for
over 18 months. CBSC has publicly stated
that it “receives only euthanized animals
from shelters.” Yet our investigators
counted as many as 200 live cats arriving
weekly, incages too small for them to stand
up or turn around in. Every week, up to
1,000 cats, dogs, rabbits, and rats are
embalmed with formaldehyde at CBSC.
A CBSC employee told our investigator
that cats were trapped, using sardines as
bait, and that, if anyone found out how
she company operated, “they’d shut us

own.

Living Hell for Animals

A typical day at the CBSC Preserved
Materials Department begins with ship-
ments of live animals. Cats, rabbits, rats,
and pigeons—all stuffed into cages that
are roughly thrown onto the cement
loading dock—arrive for processing. Metal
hooks are used to violently jab confused
and frightened cats from one cage into
another until they are so tightl packed
that movement is not possib . 'lling is
done with a carbon monoxide chamber,
and often animals are only assed for five
minutes or less—an ins 1cient time to
kill many of them. In fact, 25-30 cats are
gassed together in a chamber designed to

ill three or four cats at most. Many of the
cats, rats, and rabbits are still alive after
the gassing, moving around and crying
out. Occasionally a pregnant cat begins

to have her kittens while being gassed.
After gassing them, employees prepare
animals for embalming by strapping
them onto boards, cutting away a ﬂap of
skin with a knife and catheterizing their
exposed neck veins for injection of
formaldehyde, 3 carcinogenic preserva-
tion solution. If the animal is unfortu-
nate enough to have survived the gas
chamber, the preservation scene be-
comes a nightmare. One veterinarian,
after. viewing PETA’s video of CBSC
employees injecting formaldehyde into
the just-gassed animals said, “The vio-
lent kicking of the rats can be nothing
other than intense pain. The clenching
ofthejaws ofthe cats on in'ection ofthe
embalming material is a clear reaction
to pain.”(1) Other professionals came to
similar conclusions: “It is clear to me
that...the animals...suffer great pain
until they do ﬁnally die,” says one phy-
sician, after viewmg our videotaped
footage of conditions inside CBSC.(2) “It
is quite clear that intolerable treat-
ment of living creatures is the norm at
this company,” stated an educator. (3)

An Assembly Line of Gore
and Cruelty

After the animals are embalmed, they
are packed in plastic bags which are
closed with rubber bands. The ware-
houses are full of bodies in leaky bags,
with blood and formaldehyde spilling
out onto the shelves and ﬂoors. Barrels
of preserved animals have mold grow-
ing on them, and rotted specimens lit-
ter the floors. Employees smoke around
the open barrels of alcohol, sometimes
laying their cigarettes on the suture
material used to tie off the catheters.
They Show no respect for the animals,
whether alive or dead, tossingbody parts
and live animals around the room. One
day our investigator heard employees
laughing as they watched a dog strug-
(giling to get out from under a pile of dead

ogs 'ust brought in from the local
pound. One man threatened to beat the
dog with a metal bar before placing him
into the gas chamber. Sometimes the
rats struggle so hard that they manage

(OVER)

 

 




 

to et off their embalming boards.
Sad y, on occasions when our investiga-
tor witnessed this, the animals were
tortured by the employees—one was
thrown around the room like a ball be-
fore being drowned. It is common for
staff in the preserved materials depart-
ment to urinate on the stockroom ﬂoors,
spit on the animals, and smoke illegal
substances in the parkinglot. The fumes
of formaldehyde are overpowering, and
unused chemicals are dumped down
the drain or onto the ground behind the
building. Many customers call, com-
plaining of bloody, moldy, rotting
specimens but never know how the
CBSC employees mock their concerns
after the phone is hung up.

Alleged Violations—Numer-
ous and Long-Standing

Over a period of ﬁve months, PETA
investigators documented what they
believed to be 181 violations of the
Animal Welfare Act, 99 violations of the
North Carolina Anti-Cruelty Statutes
and 14 violations of the Occupational
Safety and Health Administration
regulations.

Other Companies

One veterinarian posed an important
question after viewing our videotape,
“Horrifyin ly, clearly, and hauntingly,
this ﬁlm 5 ows unjustiﬁable physical
pain and suffering in its most naked
form. What else goes on behind the
man doors of the animal su ply world?”
(4) uses may occur at all dissection
supply houses but PETA has started by
documenting those at the two largest in
the country—CBSC and Ward’s, a 128-
year-old company headquartered in
Rochester, N.Y., with killing facilities
right down the street from CBSC in
Burlington, N.C. The scene at Ward’s

as chamber mirrors the conditions at

BSC. Our investigators have ﬁlmed a
Class B dealer teaching his young son
how to jab at the cats so they will move
into smaller cages for gassing.

What You Can Do

Call PETA toda for a free copy of “Al-
ternatives in Biology Eduction, and call
the Dissection Hotline: 1-800-922-
FROG. Su port your child’s right to a
humane e ucation by meeting with
teachers and the school principal to
discuss alternatives to cutting up ani-
mals in class. Alert your local media to
the special report PETA has compiled
on this case with documentation and

over a dozen photo aphs detailing abuses
and violations of ocal and federal laws.
Lobby your school board to pass a reso-
lution recognizing a student’s right not to
dissect or a ban on dissection.

(1) Suzanne Cliver, D.V.M.
(2) Alan Kaplan, MD.

(3) Nina Haddock, Ph.D.
(4) Neil C. Wolff, D.V.M.

 

 

Animal
Experiments #16

N

“\s

h.‘

l
i
l
l

 

 




Committee
for

Humane
Legislation

May 15, 1991 Congressional Friends of Animals Forum

Organizational Speakers and Topics:

Tmﬂbmmma”sme 1) Christopher Croft, Legislative Director for the
legislative arm of

. . Committee for Humane Legislation and Friends of Animals
Friends of Animals , , . ,
ammmmmpmmC W111 discuss future challenges to protect dolphins and
ammnmpmma his personal experiences aboard tuna vessels in the
ammms Eastern Tropical Pacific.

2) Gerry leape, Legislative Director of Greenpeace,
will discuss the tuna/dolphin issue and how the driftnet
situation is shaping up in the European Community.

3) Martha Cole Glenn, Director of Federal Legislative
Affairs, of The Humane Society of the United States will
discuss the tuna labeling law, The Dolphin Protection
Consumer Information Act 1990.

4) Nancy Daves, Director of Government Affairs, of
the Animal Protection Institute will discuss the global
driftnet issue and the captive cetacean industry.

Priscilla Feral
Executive Director

1623 Connecticut Avenue, NW
Washington, DC. 20009

National Headquarters
Friends of Animals

PO. Box 1244

Norwalk, Connecticut 06856

(202) 483-8998 .
(202) 483—8997 FAX

 

 




(SAMPLE LETTER TO ADMINISTRATOR GLOSSER
ON CAROLINA BIOLOGICAL SUPPLY COMPANY INVESTIGATION)

May , 1991

Dr. James W. Glosser, Administrator
APHIS

USDA

P.O. BOX 96464

Washington, DC 20090-6464

RE: APHIS investigation into Carolina Biological Supply Company
(USDA LiC. No. BBB-010)

Dear Dr. Glosser:

I would very much appreciate an update from your office on
APHIS's investigation into the practices of carolina Biological
Supply Company, a USDA-licensed Class B animal dealer.

It has come to my attention that Regulatory Enforcement and
Animal Care (REAC) recently attempted to remove from its
investigation file on the case a series of videotapes submitted to
REAC by People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA). I am
further advised that these tapes had already been reviewed and
incorporated into the investigation file by a REAC investigator
when they were ordered removed. Apparently, this prompted PETA to
request an investigation into REAC's conduct by the USDA's Office
of Inspector General. I am therefore particularly interested in
hearing from you whether the videotapes in question will be
considered as evidence, and, if they will not be, in learning the
specific reasons for this.

REAC's investigation file on Carolina Biological Supply Co.,
even exclusive of the PETA videotapes, contains a very substantial
collection of evidence pointing to violation of APHIS regulations
governing the handling and care of animals. It alarms me
particularly that REAC veterinary medical officers have found,
during inspection of Carolina Biological Supply this past Fall,
that although massive numbers of animals have regularly passed
through the company's doors, the company has had no recordkeeping
system in place to meet the barest minimum requirements of the
Animal Welfare Act, which insofar as records are concerned, apply
both to live and dead animals.

I hope that your reply will indicate that APHIS is doing its
utmost to take appropriate tough enforcement.action in the Carolina
Biological Supply case. I look forward to hearing from you soon.

Sincerely yours,

 

 




OCT 18:35 FROM USE-

PHGE.BBE

Eungrrssimal errur

United sum

wAsnrNGTON,D.. W "

House of Represen tatz' m E .1

PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES or T351101“ CONGRESS, Frnsr SESSION

Saturday, October 27, 1990

1

MAGNUSON FISHERIES CONSERVATION AND MANAGEMENT ACT

TITLE IX —

DOLPHIN PROTECTION CONSUMER INFORMATION
S ec 901. (a) Short Title -This section may becited as the 'Dolphin
Protection Consumer Information Act’.

(b) Findings. The Congress ﬁnds that - .

(l) dolphins and other marine mammals are frequently killed in
the course of tuna fishing operations in the eastern tropical Paciﬁc
Ocean and high seas driftnet ﬁshing in other parts of the world;

(2) it is the policy of the United States to support a worldwide
ban on high seas driftnet ﬁshing, in part because of the harmful
effects that such drifmets have on marine mammals, including
dolphins; and

(3) consumers would like to know if the tuna they purchase' 1s
falsely labeled as to the effect of the harvesting of the tuna on
dolphins.

(c) Deﬁnitions. - For the purposes of this section -

(l) the term ‘driflnct’ and ‘driftmt fishing’ have the meanings
given those terms in section 4003 of the Driftnet Impact Monitor-
ing, Assessment, and Control Act of 1987 ( 16 U.S.C. 182 note):

(2) the term “eastern tropical Paciﬁc Ocean’ means the area of
tthaciﬁc Ocean bounded by 40 degrees north latitude, 40 degrees
south latitude, 160 degrees west longitude, and the western coast-
lines of North, Central, and South America;

(3) the term ‘label’ means a display of written, printed, or
graphic matter on or affixed to the immediate container of any
article;

(4) the term ‘Secretary’ means the Secretary of Commerce; and

(5) the term tuna product’ means a food item which contains
tuna and which has been processed for retail sale, except perishable
sandwiches, salads, or other products with a shelf life of less than 3
days.

(11) Labeling Standard. - (1) It is a violation of section 5 of the
Federal Trade Commission Act for any producer, importer, ex-
porter, distributor, or seller of any tuna product that is exported from
or offered for sale in the United States to include on the label of that
product the term ‘Dolphin Safe' or any other term or symbol that
falsely claims or suggests thatthe tuna containedin the product was
harvested using a method of ﬁshing that is not harmful to dolphins
if the product contains - E

(A) tuna harvested on the high seas. by a vessel engaged in
driftnet fishing; or

(B) tuna harvested 1n the eastern tropical Pacific Ocean by a
vessel using purse seine nets which do not meet the requirements of
being considered dolphin safe under paragraph (2).

(2) For purposes of paragraph (l)(B), a tuna product that con-
tains tuna harvested in the eastern tropical Paciﬁc Ocean by a
ﬁshing vessel using purse seine nets is dolphin safe if-

(A) the vessel is of a type and size that the Secretary has deterv
mined 13 not capable of deploying its purse seine nets on or to
encircle dolphin; or

(B)(i) the product is accompanied by a written statement exe-
cuted by the captain of the vessel which harvested the tuna certify-
ing that’no tuna were caught on the trip in which such tuna were
harvested using a purse seine net intentionally deployed on or to
encircle dolphin;

(ii) the product is accompanied by a written statement exe—
cuted by ‘.

(l) the Secretary or the Secretary’s designee, or

(II) a representative of the Inter‘American Tropical Tuna
Commission, which states that there was unapproved observer on

board the Vessel during the entire trip and that purse seine nets were
not intentionally deployed during the trip on or to encircle dolphin;
and

(iii) the statements referred to in clauses (i) and (ii) are
endorsedin writingby each exporter. unpoﬂenand processor of the
product.

(1:) Enforcement- Any person who knowingly and willfully
makes a statement or endorsement described in subsection
(d)(2)(B) that' rs i‘alse' rs liable for a civil penalty of not to exceed
$100 .000 assessed' m an action brought' 111 any appropriate district
court of the United States on behalf of the Secretary.

(0 Regulations.- -The Secretary. in consultatiém with the Score-
tary of the Treasury, shall issue regulations to implement this
section not later than 6 months after the date of the enactment ofthis
Act, including regulations establishing procedures and require

ments for ensuring that tuna products are labeled 1n accordance with
sobsection (d).

(g) Treatment of Fish Caught with Driftncts.- Section 101(a)(?.)
of the Marine Mammal Protection Act of 1972 (16 U S. C.
l37l(a)(2)) 13 amended —

. (l)' m subparagraph (C) by striking ‘and’ after the semico-
lon at the end; (2)111 subparagraph (D) by striking the period at the
end and inserting‘, and :and (3) by adding at the end the following:
(E)(i) except as provided 1n clause (ii), in the case of fish or
products containing ﬁsh harvested by a nation whose ﬁshing
vessels engage in high seas driftnct ﬁshing, shall require that
the government of the exporting nation provide documentary evi»
dence that the ﬁsh or fish product was not harvested with a large»-
scalc driftnet' 1n the South Pacific Ocean after July 1,1991, or in any
other waters of the high seas after July I, 1992: and

"(ii) 1n the case of mm or a product containing tuna harvested

by a nation whose ﬁshing vessels engage in high seas driftnet
ﬁshing, shall require that the government of. the exporting nation
provide documentary evidence that the tuna or tuna product was not
harvested with a large-scale driftnet anywhere on the high seas
after July 1,1991.

For purposes of subparagraph (E), the term ‘driftnet’ has
the mcanm g given such term in section4003 of the Driftnet Impact
Monitoring, Assessment, and Control Actof 1987 (16 U. S C. 1822
note).’.

’ 1) Nanehahms - The Secretary of State shall immediately
seek, through negotiations and discussions with appropriate foreign
governments, to reduce and, as soon as possible, eliminate the
practice of harvesting tuna through the use of purse senin nets
intentionally deployed to encircile dolphins . i '

(i) Effective Date.- Subsections (d) and (e) shall take effect 6
months after the date of the enactment of this Act. -

- E

 

The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr. Montgomery). The questron is on
the motion offered by the gentleman from Massachusetts (MI.
Studds) that the House suspend the rules and concur in the Senate
arnendmeut to the House amendment to the Senate amendment to
the bill, HR. 2061.

The question was taken, and (two- thirds having voted' 1n
favor thereof) the rules were suspended and the Senate amendment-
to the House amendment to the Senate amendr'nent was concurred

A motion to reconsider was laid on the table.

I

 




Fm. _qu_~mmam _2 41m Aoood

_ A AA _ .k. A... A. 2.1%»...

A .A A A A..A..\..A;Auww...m.x.w.n..u ...... 1..
A AA 5.x}. .rH. .. A.. .
h A . . ,A. \.\.._.A..ﬂmuu.. 1A . . A
A ,A A A A «x. .x 1.. Am A..A?!

..A“. ..a . J.
x k r

. .. . ..7... x... .. J.“
, AA . . saws/4n AJAX... .
A . .. .A . « . A
. . .A . . . AA . n]

._._._m OI>FmZ®m O." m1>_~m_u _.m.~y_um_~m_..=v

 

>_u_~__. 3-MN 300
>zUmZ IOCmm
I>_.~_N=<_>ZA Z.<.

%

éomE mmmOcmomm 2.0.:qu
|

._._.._m >_<_m_~_0>2 >mmm_<_w_.<
OOE_<_§> CZ_<m_~m:<

 

 

 

 




The volume, Preserving the Global Environment: The Challenge of
Shared Leadership, edited by Jessica Tuchman Mathews, is an
American Assembly book developed for the Seventy-seventh American
Assembly, the contents of which are listed on the following page. The
book will be published in November, 1990, by W.W. Norton & Company.
It is available to you in hardcover at a 15% discount off the list price of
$22.95. To order, ﬁll out the Coupon below and send with your check or
credit card order to:

W.W. Norton & Company, Inc.
500 Fifth Avenue
New York, NY 10110

———————— Coupon———_———————Coupon--————————_.

Please send me___copies of Preserving the Global Environment: The
Challenge of Shared Leadership. I am entitled to a discount price of
$19.50 per copy. I understand that I will receive my hard cover copy in
November 1990.

[ enclose my check for $

l I
[ ]Charge my
[ ]Visa [ ] AMEX [ ]MasterCard

Signature

 

 

Account #

 

 

Exp. Date
CA and NY residents, please add sales tax.

Name

Address

 

 

City

 

State Zip

 

-------- Coupon-—-—--————— Coupon—-——-————--

Additional copies of this report are available free of charge from: The
Amerlcan Assembly, 412 Altschul Hall, Barnard College, Columbia

University, New York,NY 10027—6598.Tele h ' 212 854-3456.
FAX: (212) 662-3655. p 0m ( )

-2-

 

 

 




 

 

 

PREFACE

On April 19, 1990, 76 men and women from 18 countries,
representing a spectrum of government, business, labor, academia, the
media, and the professions, gathered at Arden House, Harriman, New
York for the Seventy-seventh American Assembly entitled Preserving
the Global Environment: The Challenge of Shared Leadership. For
three days the participants discussed how the United States should
reorient its policies and relations toward other countries and
international institutions to preserve our global environment. This was
the third in a series of American Assembly programs exploring the
changing global role of the United States in the 1990s.

This program was jointly sponsored by the World Resources Institute
(WRI) and The American Assembly. Dr. J esssica Tuchman Mathews,
Vice President of WRI, served as director and edited the background pa-
pers prepared for the participants. Authors and titles of these papers,
which will be compiled and published as a W.W. Norton book, are:

Daniel A. Sharp Preface

James Gustave Speth

Jessica Tuchman Mathews Introduction and Overview

Nathan Keyﬁtz Population Growth Can Prevent the

Development That Would Slow
Population Growth

Kenton Miller Deforestation and Species Loss
Walter V. Reid

Richard Elliot Benedick Protecting the Ozone Layer:
New Directions in Diplomacy
George W. Rathjens Energy and Climate Change
Tom H. Tietenberg Managing the Transition:
The Potential Role for Economic
Policies
Richard N. Cooper The World Economic Climate
Peter H. Sand International Cooperation:

The Environmental Experience

Abram Chayes Adjustment and Compliance

Antonia H. Chayes Processes in International
Regulatory Regimes

Jessica Tuchman Mathews The Implications for U. S. Policy

Evening programs during this Assembly included an address by
Maurice F. Strong, Secretary General, 1992 UN. Conference on
Environment and Development; and panels on “Arms, Conﬂict, and the
Environment” (Lincoln P. Bloomﬁeld, Professor of Political Science,

-3-

 




 

 

 

Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Moderator; Nicole Ball, Director
of Analysis, The National Security Archive; Michael Klare, Director,
Five College Program in Peace and World Security Studies; Kosta
Tsipis, Director, Program in Science and Technology for International
Security, Massachusetts Institute of Technology); and a panel on “The
Common Environment of Eastern Europe” (Robert H. Pry, Director,
International Institute for Applied Systems Analysis, Laxenburg,
Austria, Moderator; Tamas Fleischer, Senior Research Fellow,
Research Institute for World Economy of the Hungarian Academy of
Science, Budapest; Andrzej Kassenberg, Institute of Geography and
Spatial Economy, Polish Academy of Sciences, Warsaw; J aromir
Sedlak, Krupp Senior Associate, Institute for East-West Security
Studies, New York).

Following their discussion, the participants issued this report on
April 22, 1990; it contains both their ﬁndings and recommendations.

We gratefully acknowledge the support of the following organizations
which helped to fund this undertaking:

Principal Funder Rockefeller Brothers Fund
Major Funders John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur
Foundation

The Pew Charitable Trusts
The Tinker Foundation, Inc.
The George Gund Foundation

Funders The Ford Foundation
CITIBANK/Citicorp
The Overbrook Foundation
Volvo North America
Rockefeller Family Fund, Inc.
Texaco, Inc.
Xerox Foundation

These organizations, as well as the World Resources Institute and
The American Assembly, take no position on subjects presented here for
public discussion. In addition, it should be noted that the participants
took part in this meeting as private individuals and spoke for
themselves rather than for the institutions with which they are
afﬁliated. ‘

We would like to express special appreciation in preparing for the
ﬁne work of the drafting committee of this report: Ian Burton, Harlan
Cleveland, Charles Ebinger, T.N. Khoshoo, Carlisle F. Runge.
Alexander Shakow, Bruce Smart, James Gustave Speth, and Jennifer
Seymour Whitaker.

James Gustave Speth Daniel A. Sharp
President President
World Resources Institute The American Assembly

 

The printing and distribution of this report has
been funded by a special grant from CITIBAN K
and from The Pew Charitable Trusts.

 

 

 

-4-

 

 




 

 

 

FINAL REPORT
of the
SEVEN TY -SEVENTH AMERICAN ASSEMBLY

At the close of their discussions, the participants in
the Seventy-seventh American Assembly, on
Preserving the Global Environment: The Challenge of
Shared Leadership, at Arden House, Harriman, New
York, April 19—22, 1990, reviewed as a group the
following statement. This statement represents
general agreement; however, no one was asked to sign
it. Furthermore, it should be understood that not
everyone agreed with all of it.

Three indivisibly linked global environmental trends together
constitute an increasingly grave challenge to the habitability of the
earth. They are human population growth; tropical deforestation and
the rapid loss of biological diversity; and global atmospheric change,
including stratospheric ozone loss and greenhouse warming. These
trends threaten nations’ economic potential, therefore their internal
political security, their citizens’ health (because of increased
ultraviolet radiation), and, in the case of global warming, possibly
their very existence. N o more basic threat to national security exists.
Thus, together with economic interdependence, global environmental
threats are shifting traditional national security concerns to a focus
on collective global security.

The 1990s offer an historic opportunity for action that must not be
allowed to slip. Not only do the global environmental trends pose an
urgent threat to the planet’s long term future, but the waning of the
Cold War also lifts a heavy
The industrialized countries psychological and economic

must prove through concrete burden from both governments
and individuals, freeing human,

 

action that they take physical, and ﬁnancial
environmental issues resources to meet the new
seriously. challenge.

There is evidence that
developing countries are ready to become partners in this global
endeavor. However, their willingness to act will depend on help from
the industrialized countries to alleviate the poverty which is a major
aggravating cause of population growth and environmental
degradation. It will also depend on the industrialized countries’
demonstrated commitment to reduce their heavy per capita

 

-5-

 




 

 

 

consumption of natural resources and ecological serv1ces. The

industrialized countries, in short, must prove through concrete action
that they take environmental issues seriously. The other side of the
equation that determines environmental stress, which must be
addressed, is population growth: 95 percent of which Will otherwise
occur in the developing countries.

The global response must therefore be launched as a mutual
commitment by all countries. The certainty that all nations will share
a common destiny demands that they work together as partners.

The global environmental challenge is fundamentally different
from previous international concerns. Unlike the effort to avoid
nuclear war that dominated international relations for the past
forty-ﬁve years, success or failure will not hinge on the actions of
governments alone. It will rest equally on the beliefs and actions of
billions of individuals, and on the roles played by national and
multinational business. The importance of individual behavioral
change and the major new roles to be played by these
non-governmental actors demand profound change in the institutions
and mechanisrili of international cooperation.

\x POPULATION GROWTH

The degradation of the global environment is integrally linked to
human population growth. More than 90 million people are added
each year—more than ever before. On its present trajectory, the
world’s population could nearly triple its current size, reaching 14
billion before stabilizing. With an heroic effort, it could level off at
around 9 billion. However, today’s unmet need for family planning is
huge: only 30 percent of reproductive age people in the developing
world outside of China currently have access to contraception.
Women’s full and equal participation in society at all levels must be
rapidly addressed.

Policy makers must recognize that actions taken during the critical
decade of the 1990s Will largely determine whether human population
will double or triple before stabilizing. Nigeria, for example, could
grow from about 30 million in 1950 to around 300 million in ZOZO—a
tenfold increase in one lifespan. In the absence of rapid progress in
family planning, future governments may be tempted to restrict

human freedom in order to deal with unmanageable population
increases.

The pressure of population on the environment is bound up with
poverty: 1n the Sahel as well as other areas threatened by famine and

.___._.__<m_

 

 

 




 

 

 

environmental deterioration, poor people have no other option but to

consume all available local resources. Sustaining the environment

thus requires a balance between wise environmental management,

active efforts to slow population growth, and equitable economic
development.

N 0 Administration can be In many deVeloping

' oun ' '
regarded as serious about C mesa Populatlon
pressures on the land

the envjronment unless it is threaten national security as
serious about global people migrate in search of

- tenance a ravatin
la 10n row h. sus. . ’. gg g
popu t g t territorial disputes and often

creating violent conﬂict.

 

 

While population pressures affect the planet as a Whole, they must
be individually addressed by each nation and its citizens. Countries
must make their own assessments about population levels and
growth, ordering their development priorities and incentives
accordingly. Industrialized nations can offer much needed technical
support and experience in family planning to help developing nations
and individual couples achieve their goals.

Despite its complexities, the problem clearly calls for several policy
initiatives aimed at:

' Universal access to family planning by the end of the
decade——this will require a global expenditure rising to reach $10
billion a year by the year 2000.

' Giving priority to investment in education for women and in
bringing women into full economic and political participation.

' Greatly increased research to provide a wide array of safer,
cheaper and easier birth control technologies.

° Stepped up mass communication aimed at increasing support for
family planning.

Since 1981, the United States has retreated from the strong
leadership role on world population it exercised in the two previous
decades. The ideological debate has destroyed a bipartisan consensus
that laid the groundwork for crucial international cooperation. Money
for research has fallen sharply, and the global family planning effort
has been gravely weakened. Positive US. leadership needs to be
reestablished, through the restoration of US. support for the major
international population and family planning organizations and
annual population assistance budgets more commensurate with
global requirements. Ultimately, no Administration can be regarded
as serious about the environment unless it is serious about global
population growth.

-7-

 

 




 

 

 

 

TROPICAL DEFORESTATION AND
LOSS OF BIODIVERSITY

Tropical deforestation and the loss of a diverse set of species rob the
earth of its biological richness, which undermines long—range
ecological security and global economic potential. Nearly 20 million
hectares of tropical forests are lost every year. Conservative
estimates put the extinction rate at one hundred species per day: a
rate unmatched since the disappearance of the dinosaurs. Escalating
human populations, deforestation, disruptions of watersheds, soil
loss, and land degradation are all linked in a Vicious cycle that
perpetuates and deepens poverty, and often creates ecological
refugees.

Because deforestation and the loss of biodiversity result ﬁrst from
mismanagement at the local level, effective interventions must also
occur at this level, building upon local norms, traditions, and cultures
that will promote sustainable management. Recent efforts to restore
common property management by indigenous peoples in the Amazon
basin of Colombia and Ecuador are notable initiatives. This approach
respects the rights of indigenous populations and the wisdom of their
institutions, and is likely to be low in cost.

At the national level, effective management will require a
commitment to conservation, land use planning, secure property
rights, and sustainable agroforestry, so that forests provide a
continued ﬂow of goods and services with minimal ecological
disruption. Timber harvesting must reﬂect long-term scarcity values,
consistent with full environmental and social cost accounting.
Tropical forests are often sacriﬁced for a fraction of their real value by
nations in search of quick sources of foreign exchange. While
“debt-for—nature” swaps by the private sector are helpful and should
be expanded, they are unlikely to be sufﬁcient either to save forest
ecosystems or to relieve debt loads. However, the opportunity exists
to include government debt in this process and to complement the
international debt strategy by linking reduction in public sector debt
to policy reforms with environmental beneﬁts.

What policy goals and means are appropriate locally, nationally,
and internationally?

' While respecting local and community property rights which
promote ecologically sound management, national governments can
help most by eliminating distorted economic incentives that
encourage mismanagement, such as the granting of property titles in
return for forest clearing, and below-cost timber sales. International

—8-

 

 

 




 

 

 

institutions should encourage such reforms which, at the same time,
relieve the pressure on remaining tropical forests and help bring
about their sustainable exploitation.

0 Forest conservation is not enough; it must be accompanied by
aggressive, ecologically sensitive reforestation and land
rehabilitation, especially on arid lands and where fuelwood demands
are high.

0 These measures will be costly. Current international funding
levels (such as called for in the Tropical Forest Action Plan) should be
increased tenfold from about $1 billion to $10 billion. The additional
funds will only achieve their goals if accompanied by increased
training and broad non-governmental participation in the planning
process.

0 An international Strategy and Convention on Biodiversity would
provide a means to actively engage many institutions, and to
formulate a global action plan for identifying and funding critical
needs in ecological “hot spots.” The Strategy and Convention should
be readied for the 1992 Conference on Environment and
Development.

° The World Bank in its lending policies should be sensitive to
encouraging land use and forest practices that are consistent with
environmental sustainability.

ATMOSPHERE AND ENERGY

Human activities are substantially changing the chemical
composition of the atmosphere in a way that threatens the health,
security, and survival of people and other species, and increases the
likelihood of international tensions. Depletion of the ozone layer and
global warming are two salient examples, but other unforeseen effects
cannot be ruled out.

Ozone

The depletion of the ozone layer by chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs)
allows increased ultraviolet B radiation from the sun to enter the
earth’s atmosphere, threatening human health and the productivity
of the biosphere.

The 1987 international agreement to limit production and use of
CFCs in the Montreal Protocol to the Vienna Convention was a
landmark achievement and a promising precedent for international
agreements on other global environmental issues. However, the
Protocol itself is an unﬁnished story. Full participation by the less

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

developed countries has not yet been achieved, issues of acceptable
alternatives and technology transfer remain unresolved, and the
treaty itself must be revised to require complete elimination of CFC
production and use by industrialized countries no later than 2000.
How these issues are resolved will have important implications for
addressing climate change and other global ecological problems.

The Greenhouse Effect

There is a scientiﬁc consensus that rising concentrations of
greenhouse gases will cause global climatic change. Atmospheric
levels of carbon dioxide have increased 25 percent since the beginning
of the industrial era. Most of the C02 emissions derive from energy
use. About 90 percent of the world’s current energy use is met by the
burning of carbon-based fuels. Tropical deforestation is also a major
source of carbon dioxide. Other greenhouse gases, methane, nitrous
oxides, and CFCs, are collectively as important as carbon dioxide in
their greenhouse effect and are increasing more rapidly.

Therefore, the earth is set to experience substantial climate change
of unknown scale and rapidity. The consequences are likely to include
sea level rise, greater frequency of extreme weather events,
disruption of ecosystems, and potentially vast impacts on the global
economy. The processes of climate change are irreversible and major
additional releases could be triggered from the biosphere by global
warming in an uncontrollable self—reinforcing process (e.g. methane
release from unfrozen Arctic tundra).

“Insurance” actions to reduce C02 emissions and those of other
greenhouse gases are therefore needed, starting now. The associated
risks are much less than those of not acting and in some cases require
no net increase in cost.

Past and present contributions to greenhouse gases come largely
from the industrialized countries. However, the less developed
countries already contribute signiﬁcantly through deforestation, and
their share will increase sharply with development and expansion of
fossil fuel use, especially coal.

The international community should work quickly toward a
multilateral framework ultimately involving national targets for
reducing emissions of carbon dioxide and the other greenhouse gases.
There is no need for the industrialized countries to await universal
agreements. They should act now: individually and/or in concert.
Indeed, some in Western Europe have already begun.

Initial steps involve the deployment of a range of policy

-10-

 

 




 

 

 

instruments to achieve energy conservation and efﬁciency,
demand-side management, and changes in the fuel mix. A
considerable expansion of

This American Assembly support for research and
development into alternative

strongly endorses the global energy sources is urgently
target ...of a 20 percent required. There may be a

' - - - future f r . ‘
reduction In C02 emlssmns . 0 nuclear energy if
credlble assurances can be

by 2005- - - . provided with respect to
safety, waste disposal, nuclear

 

proliferation, and comparative costs.

This American Assembly strongly endorses the global target now
under study by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change
(IPCC) of a 20 percent reduction in CO2 emissions by 2005 as a
minimum goal.

GOALS AND MEANS OF
INTERNATIONAL COOPERATION

Global environmental damage threatens the physical as well as
economic security of individuals and nations without exception,
giving new reality to traditional concepts of collective security.
Environmental threats are also likely to create new sources of
conﬂict. The risks of collective insecurity call for an unprecedented
strategy of international cooperation.

The health of the global environment is the product of behavior by
billions of individuals. National governments must increasingly take
into account the views of their citizens as they design policies to
confront environmental concerns, and can increasingly rely on the
inﬂuence and impact of changes in individual behavior. Coalitions of
non-governmental actors can be a powerful force in hammering out
bargains, hardening scientific consensus, and developing legal
concepts and new institutional frameworks. Governments and
international. institutions can then set widely applicable norms and
standards.

In this new international context, institutions and mechanisms are
becoming more fluid: the complex and swiftly evolving environmental
dilemmas demand it. Thus we need to seek global consensus in the
United Nations as work proceeds in many other arenas to reach more
limited agreements. These include unilateral action by individual
governments, small groups of nations bargaining on discrete issues,
an active role by companies and non-governmental organizations
(NGOS), regional arrangements, and hybrid public-private

-11-

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

partnerships (such as the collaboration between pharmaceutical
companies and the World Health Organization on new birth control
measures—a pattern that should be copied for ecological restoration).
Actions and decisions should always be taken at a level as close as
possible to the people affected by them.

Within the UN system, the United Nations Environment
Programme (UNEP) has demonstrated its capacity to serve as
innovator, monitor, and catalyst—notably in the Mediterranean
cleanup and the 1987 ozone treaty. UNEP should be strengthened
and much more dependably funded to continue this important role.

Among key priorities for international action are the following:

Establishing Norms and Setting Goals

The ﬁrst task of the international community as a whole is to
develop a broad consensus on norms of global survival, and to
establish specific environmental goals—for example, boundary
conditions on pollution of the atmospheric commons, targets for the
protection of biodiversity, and population policy goals—toward which
public and private efforts should be directed.

Meeting the Costs

Industrial countries must make major investments to improve their
own performance. Developing countries must, in their own interest,
increasingly incorporate sound environmental practices as part of
their own development programs. Resolving the debt overhang is
crucial. But industrial countries will also need to make a special
effort to expand flows to developing countries if needed investments
in global environmental priorities—slowing population growth,
protecting the ozone layer, limiting greenhouse gas emissions,
preserving biodiversity, and many other non-global environmental
needs—are to occur. Because of resource scarcities, developing
countries are otherwise unlikely to act.

The UNEP, United Nations Development Program (UNDP), and
the World Bank have proposed a $1 billion, three-year pilot facility
for this purpose; it deserves strong support. Much larger resource
ﬂows will be needed in the future. As a source of such funds, serious
consideration should be given to establishing an international fee (for
example, on carbon use) because conventional sources of ﬁnance are

simply not adequate to, or appropriate for, the task of reducing global
environmental risks.

-12-

1 $4,:




£4 “a;

1%:

:9.

Policy Reforms

While additional ﬁnancing is required, many other measures can
make a major impact. International agreement is needed to introduce
into national accounting methods the full costs incurred in depletion
of natural resources and use of the global commons; this could serve
as a valuable guide to all nations’ decision makers to use scarce
resources well. International trade is a major source of revenues for
development; the current Uruguay Round of the General Agreement
on Tariffs & Trade (GATT) negotiations should be used to strengthen
environmental considerations in trade policy. All international
ﬁnancial and planning institutions should take account of how policy
recommendations affect environmental policy.

Technical AssistanCe and Research

All countries need additional environmental expertise and
research. An International Global Environmental Service Corps
should be established to provide technical help and build local
environmental capacity. I

Expanding the Role of the Private Sector

Government and international organizations have special
responsibilities, but the private sector may have the most impact.
Where central planners and government bureaucracies have tried to
replace free markets, neither economic development nor
environmental protection has been well served.

The private sector should be spurred to anticipate—and beneﬁt
from——the changing structure of regulation and market demand by
developing environmentally superior technologies. Governments need
to encourage such environmental entrepreneurship through the use
of taxes, subsidies, and other signals, including codes of conduct. An
international structure of targets and standards is needed to support
this approach.

Within the private sector, an enormous number of citizen
organizations now play an important part in establishing priorities.
In all the actions we propose, active and early participation by
representative groups at the local, national, and international level
should be encouraged.

-13-

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

The 1992 U.N. Conference on Environment and Development

None of these environmental challenges can be met without a new
era of heightened cooperation between the industrial and developing
countries. This will come in many shapes and forms, using ad hoc
coalitions of governments, active participation of NGOs and the
private sector, and other new arrangements designed to meet varying
needs.

The 1992 conference provides a unique opportunity to build on
these initiatives to advance international action on the points noted
here—in short, to achieve a global compact for environmental
protection and economic progress. The conference should afﬁrm that
slowing population growth is an integral part of meeting the
environment and development challenge. It should agree on how the
additional resource needs of the decade should be met. It should
establish a new ofﬁcial methodology for calculating national income
accounts. And it should complete legal agreements on conventions
already under negotiation—for protection of the atmosphere, and
biological diversity.

A CHALLENGE TO THE UNITED STATES

As the world’s largest economic power and consumer of
environmental resources, the United States must play a key
leadership role both by example and through international
participation. This calls for strong action at every level from private
households to the White House. Change is difﬁcult and not cost free.
It will take commitment and courage. But the long term beneﬁts will
be worth every penny.

Essential to this drive is the development of a national
environmental strategy, through the joint efforts of government,
private industry, NGOs, and individual leaders. It should be aimed at
global goals that include:

0 A halt to the buildup of greenhouse gases;

0 A lower per capita environmental cost of industrial and
agricultural practices and consumption patterns, particularly in the
United States and other wealthy nations;

° Slowing and then reversing deforestation;

' A drastic reduction in the rate of human-caused species
extinction; and,

' Stabilization of world population before it doubles again.

To develop and carry out such a strategy will require integration of

-14-

 

 

 




 

 

 

policies and more effective coordination of agencies within the US.
government, and a major review should be launched to determine the
needed changes. Equally important, the strategy can beneﬁt from
close cooperation between private industry and environmental

. experts to identify, develop,
...enough IS knOWIl abOU-t the and adopt environmentally

risks of global warming and superior technologieS-
climate change to justify an With its preeminent

, . . scientiﬁc research capacity, the
lmmedlate U‘S’ p ()1le United States is in a position

response. materially to aid development,
improve the environment, and

increase the planet’s carrying capacity. Government research and
development funding should be shifted from a preoccupation with
defense to greater concern for the environment, to increase knowledge
of natural phenomena and trends, to expand our understanding of the
human dimensions of global change, and to develop more benign
technologies, particularly in energy, manufacturing, and agriculture.
Incentives for private environmentally-related research and
development should also be considered.

In addition to lending strong support to the multilateral initiatives
identiﬁed above, U.S. action is needed in the following areas:

 

 

Adopt New Policies on Global Warming and Energy

Despite considerable uncertainties, enough is known about the
risks of global warming and climate change to justify an immediate
US. policy response. Without waiting for international consensus or
treaties, the United States should take actions to reduce substantially
its emissions of carbon dioxide, CFCs, and other greenhouse gases.
The United States should promote a global phase—out of CFC
production by 2000. U. S. energy strategy should emphasize reducing
fossil fuel use through aggressive energy efﬁciency improvements,
especially in transportation and in the production and use of
electicity, backed by greater efforts to introduce renewable energy
sources. Research on nuclear energy should be pursued to determine
whether designs can be developed that might resolve safety and
proliferation concerns and restore public and investor conﬁdence.

In addition to performance standards and other regulatory
approaches, economic incentives are essential to achieving energy
efﬁciency. Most important is a large, phased-in increase in the federal
tax on gasoline and the adoption of a carbon dioxide emissions fee
applicable to users of fossil fuels. To avoid competitive imbalances,
other industrial nations should be urged to adopt similar policies.

-15-

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Strengthen Cooperation with the Developing Countries and
Eastern Europe

Recognizing that meeting many of today’s environmental
challenges will require major actions by the developing countries, the
United States should launch new programs and strengthen existing

ones that can encourage and

. . support these undertakings.
MOSt Important IS a large, Operating in concert with

phased-in increase in the international partners

federal tax on gasoline Whenever appropriate, these
programs should: 1) provide

strong ﬁnancial and other
support for universal access to family planning and contraceptive
services, accompanied by efforts to improve the status of women and
their employment opportunities; 2) launch major new ﬁnancing
initiatives aimed at facilitating developing country participation in
international negotiations, and at meeting the large need for
investments in sustainable forest management, biodiversity
protection, watershed rehabilitation, fuelwood production, and
techniques adapted to the needs of small-scale farmers; 8) facilitate
the transfer of needed technology, expertise, and information in
energy, environment, and population; 4) assist the developing
countries with training and capacity building both in government and
in N GOs; and 5) redeploy a substantial fraction of military and
security-related assistance to help developing and East European
countries to alleviate their environmental problems. Two important
objectives of these efforts should be to make improved technologies
available to developing countries at affordable costs, and relatedly, to
assist in ﬁnding environmentally acceptable ways of meeting their
energy needs.

 

 

Recent political changes in Eastern Europe afford an immediate
opportunity to reduce environmental stress of local and global
importance. Resolving the region’s severe environmental problems
requires collaboration and assistance from the United States,
including the private sector. Such collaboration is a commercial
opportunity, and should be one of the more economically efﬁcient
ways of reducing environmental degradation. It is vital, however, that
the needed transfer of technology and funds from the West should not
be made at the expense of resource ﬂows to the developing countries.

Revise Agricultural and Forestry Policies

The United States, through negotiations abroad as well as
unilateral actions at home, should phase out agricultural subsidies

-16-

 

 

 




 

 

 

that encourage overproduction, excessive use of chemical fertilizers
and pesticides, and mismanagement of water resources. Eliminating
overproduction and adopting full cost pricing will open US. and other
markets to developing country producers who enjoy a natural
comparative advantage, thus aiding their economic development and
intervening in the poverty-population-environment degradation cycle.
Similarly, US. national forestry policies should be amended to
eliminate the federal subsidization of timber sales at below market
prices, and jointly with Canada, to conserve the last remnants of old
growth temperate rainforests.

A FINAL WORD

On this Earth Day 1990, we call attention to the need for
immediate international action to reverse trends that threaten the
integrity of the global
. . environment. These trends
If the world community falls endanger all nations and

to act forcefully in the require collective action and
current decade the earth’s cooperation among all nations
7

. . . . . in the common interest. Our
abllity to sustain life 1s at message is one of urge n Cy.

risk. Accountable and courageous
leadership in all sectors Will be
needed to mobilize the necessary effort. If the world community fails
to act forcefully in the current decade, the earth’s ability to sustain
life is at risk.

 

 

-17-

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

THE AMERICAN ASSEMBLY

Preserving the Global Environment:
the Challenge of Shared Leadership
April 19-22, 1990
Arden House, Columbia University

TIMOTHY ATKESON
Assistant Administrator
Ofﬁce of
International Activities
United States Environmental
Protection Agency
Washington, DC

JAMES D. ATWATER

Professor

Editorial Department

School of Journalism

University of Missouri-Columbia
Columbia, Missouri

NICOLE BALL

Director of Analysis

The National Security Archive
Washington, DC

ANTHONY C. BEILENSON
Congressman from California
US. House of Representatives
Washington, DC

RICHARD E. BENEDICK

Senior Fellow

The Conservation Foundation/
World Wildlife Fund

Washington, DC

LINCOLN P. BLOOMFIELD
Department of Political Science
Massachusetts Institute

of Technology
Cambridge, Massachusetts

ZBIGNIEW BOCHNIARZ

Senior Fellow

Hubert H. Humphrey
Institute of Public Affairs

University of Minnesota

Minneapolis, Minnesota

SEYOM BROWN

Chair & Professor of Politics
Department of Politics
Brandeis University
Waltham, Massachusetts

GERARDO BUDOWSKI
Director of Natural Resources
University for Peace

San Jose, COSTA RICA

TT

TT

Discussion Leader
* Rapporteur
H Panel Member

4:

*>l<

-18-

IAN BURTON

Director
The International Federation
of Institutes for Advanced
Study (IFIAS)

Toronto, Ontario, CANADA

SHARON L. CAMP

Vice President

Population Crisis Committee
Washington, DC

ABRAM CHAYES

Felix Frankfurter Professor of Law
Harvard Law School

Cambridge, Massachusetts

NAZLI CHOUCRI

Professor of Political Science

Department of Political Science

Massachusetts Institute of
Technology

Cambridge, Massachusetts

HARLAN CLEVELAND

Professor Emeritus

Hubert H. Humphrey Institute of
Public Affairs

University of Minnesota

Minneapolis, Minnesota

Brigadier General W. R. DOBSON
Director,
General Forces Development

National Defense Headquarters
Ottawa, Ontario, CANADA

CHARLES K. EBINGER
Center for Strategic

& International Studies
Vice President,

International Resources [Group
Washington, DC

ANTHONY FAIRCLOUGH
Special Advisor &
Former Deputy Director General
for Development
Commission of the European
Communities
Richmond, Surrey,
UNITED KINGDOM

 




 

TJF TAMAS FLEISCHER

Senior Research Fellow
Research Institute for World
Economy of the Hungarian
Academy of Sciences

Vice President, ISTER
(East European
Environmental Research)

Budapest, HUNGARY

ALTON FRYE

Vice President & Washington Di-
rector

Council on Foreign Relations
Washington, DC

SHINJ I FUKUKAWA
Advisor, Global Industrial &

Social Progress Research Institute
(GISPRI)
Former Vice—Minister of MITI
Tokyo, JAPAN

RICHARD N. GARDNER

Henry L. Moses Professor of Law
& International Organization

School of Law

Columbia University

New York, New York

DAVID GERGEN
Editor-at-Large

US. News & World Report
Washington, DC

ROBERT G. GILPIN, JR.
Eisenhower Professor of
International Affairs
Woodrow Wilson School of
Public & International Affairs
and Department of Politics
Princeton University
Princeton, New Jersey

PETER H. GLEICK

Director, Global Environment Pro—

gram

Paciﬁc Institute for Studies in
Development, Environment, &
Security

Berkeley, California

U.V. HENDERSON, JR.

General Manager

Environment & Product Safety
Department

Texaco, Inc.

Beacon, New York

PERDITA HUSTON

Senior Advisor to
International Planned Parenthood
Federation

Regent's College

London, UNITED KINGDOM

PAUL IBEKA
Development Economist
Anambra-IMO River Basin Devel-
opment

Authority
Owerri, NIGERIA

H AN DRZEJ KASSENBERG

Institute of Geography &
Spatial Economy

Polish Academy of Sciences

Warsaw, POLAND

HISAKAZU KATO

Director

Office of Policy Planning
& Research

Environment Agency

Government of Japan

Tokyo, JAPAN

NATHAN KEYFITZ
Leader, Population Program
International Institute for

Applied Systems Analysis (IIASA)
Laxenburg, AUSTRIA

T.N. KHOSHOO

Distinguished Scientist (CSIR)
Tata Energy Research Institute
New Delhi, INDIA

JANUSZ KINDLER

Professor

Institute of Environmental
Engineering

Warsaw University of Technology

Warsaw, POLAND

MICHAEL KLARE
Director & Associate Professor
Five College Program in

Peace & World Security Studies
Hampshire College
Amherst, Massachusetts

SEEISO D. LIPHUKO

Deputy Permanent Secretary

Ministry of Local Government &
Lands

Gaborone, BOTSWANA

ABRAHAM F. LOWENTHAL

Professor of International
Relations

University of Southern California

Los Angeles, California

 

 

 

 

 

 

Discussion Leader
* Rapporteur
TT Panel Member

-19-

 

 




 

 

 

 

C. PAYNE LUCAS
Executive Director
Africare
Washington, DC

THOMAS F. MALONE

MATTHEW N IMETZ

Partner

Paul, Weiss, Rifkind,
Wharton & Garrison

New York, New York

Scholar in Residence ROBERT PAARLBERG
St. Joseph College Associate Professor
West Hartford, Connecticut Wellesley College

JOAN MARTIN-BROWN
Special Advisor to the Executive
Director, & Chief,

it

Wellesley, Massachusetts

ROBERT H. PRY
Director

Washington Ofﬁce International Institute for v
United Nations Environment Applied Systems Analysis (llASA)
Programme Laxenburg, AUSTRIA

Washington, DC

JESSICA TUCHMAN MATHEWS
Vice President

World Resources Institute
Washington, DC

DONALD F. MCHENRY
Georgetown University
Washington, DC

KEVIN FF. QUIGLEY

Program Director for
Public Policy

The Pew Charitable Trusts

Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

KILAPARTI RAMAKRISHNA
Senior Associate

International Environmental Law
The Woods Hole Research Center

BERNARD MCKINNON Woods Hole, Massachusetts
CAP Director
United Auto Workers GEORGE W. RATHJ ENS
Farmington, Connecticut Center for International Studies
Massachusetts Institute of
ROBERT MCNAMARA Technology
Former President of Cambridge, Massachusetts
The World Bank
Washington, DC WALTER V. REID
Associate, Program in Forests
DANA MEAD & Biodiversity

Executive Vice President
International Paper Company
Purchase, New York

World Resources Institute
Washington, DC

ALDEMARO ROMERO
JAMES W. MORLEY Executive Director
Professor of Government BIOMA

East Asian Institute
Columbia University
New York, New York

MARTHA T. MUSE
Chairman & President

The Tinker Foundation, Inc.
New York, New York

YVETTE M. NEWBOLD
Company Secretary

Hanson PLC

London, UNITED KINGDOM

* Rapporteur

Caracas, VENEZUELA

ANNIE BONNIN RONCEREL
Coordinator

Climate Network-Europe
Louvain-La-Neuve, BELGIUM

CARLISLE FORD RUNGE

Associate Professor & Director,

Center for International Food
& Agricultural Policy

University of Minnesota

St. Paul, Minnesota

JOSE SARUKHAN

Rector

Universidad Nacional
Autonoma de Mexico (UNAM)

Mexico City, MEXICO

TT Panel Member

-20-

 

 

 

 

 




l‘l

«r

l‘

JOHN C. SAWHILL
President &

Chief Executive Officer
The Nature Conservancy
Washington, DC

YURI N. SAYAMOV

First Deputy Chairman

Committee of Soviet Scientists
for Global Security

Moscow, USSR

JAROMIR SEDLAK

Krupp Senior Associate

Institute for East-West
Security Studies

New York, NY

ALEXANDER SHAKOW
Director
Strategic Planning

& Review Department
The World Bank
Washington, DC

LEONARD SILK
Economics Columnist
The New York Times
New York, New York

BRUCE SMART

Former Chairman & Chief
Executive Ofﬁcer of
Continental Group

Former Under Secretary of
Commerce for International
Trade

Upperville, Virginia

JAMES GUSTAVE SPETH
President

World Resources Institute
Washington, DC

MAURICE F. STRONG

Secretary General, 1992 U.N.
Conference on Environment
& Development

Geneva, Switzerland

KOSTA TSIPIS
Director
Program in Science & Technology
for International Security
Massachusetts Institute
of Technology
Cambridge, Massachusetts

.v. a

.

MARTIN VON HILDEBRAN D
Head of Indigenous Affairs
Office of the President

Bogota, COLOMBIA

EDITH BROWN WEISS
Professor of Law
Georgetown University
School of Law
Washington, DC

CASEY E. WESTELL, JR.

Consultant

(Formerly Director,
InduStrial Ecology)

Tenneco Inc.

Houston, Texas

‘ ‘ JENNIFER SEYMOUR

WHITAKER
Director
Committees on Foreign Relations

Council on Foreign Relations
New York, New York

JOHN WILLIAMSON

Senior Fellow

Institute for International
Economics

Washington, DC

GEORGE M. WOODWELL
Director

The Woods Hole Research Center
Woods Hole, Massachusetts

TAIZO YAKUSHIJ I
Professor of Political Science
Saitama University

Urawa City, Saitama, JAPAN

ORAN R. YOUNG

Director

The Institute of Arctic Studies
Dartmouth College

Hanover, New Hampshire

CHARLES ZIEGLER

Senior Vice President,
External Affairs

Ciba—Geigy

Ardsley, New York

KARL ZIEGLER
Financial Consultant to the World
Wide Fund for Nature and
Friends
of the Earth
Former Executive Director of
Bankers
Trust International
London, UNITED KINGDOM

 

 

 

 

 

* Rapporteur
T Delivered formal address
H Panel Member

-21-

 

 




ABOUT THE WORLD RESOURCES INSTITUTE

The World Resources Institute (WRI) is a policy research center
created in late 1982 to help governments, international organizations,
and private business address a fundamental question: How can
societies meet basic human needs and nurture economic growth without
undermining the natural resources and environmental integrity on
which life, economic vitality, and international security depend?

 

The lnstitute’s current areas of policy research include tropical
forests, biological diversity, sustainable agriculture, energy, climate
change, atmospheric pollution, economic incentives for sustainable
development, and resource and environmental information.

WRI's research is aimed at providing accurate information about
global resources and population, identifying emerging issues, and
developing politically and economically workable proposals.

ABOUT THE AMERICAN ASSEMBLY

The American Assembly was established by Dwight D. Eisenhower at
Columbia University in 1950. It holds nonpartisan meetings and
publishes authoritative books to illuminate issues of United States
pohcy.

An afﬁliate of Columbia, the Assembly seeks to provide information,
stimulate discussion, and evoke independent conclusions on matters of
vital public interest.

 

 

 

American Assembly Sessions

At least two national programs are initiated each year. Authorities
are retained to write background papers presenting essential data and
deﬁning the main issues of each subject.

A group of men and women representing a broad range of experience,
competence, and American leadership meet for several days to discuss
the Assembly topic and consider alternatives for national policy.

 

All Assemblies follow the same procedure. The background papers
are sent to participants in advance of the Assembly. The Assembly
meets in small groups for four or ﬁve lengthy periods. All groups use
the same agenda. At the close of these informal sessions participants
adopt in plenary session a ﬁnal report of ﬁndings and
recommendations.

 

-22-

 

 

 

 




 

 

WORLD RESOURCES INSTITUTE

 

Matthew Nimetz
Chairman

John E. Cantlon
Vice Chairman

John H. Adams
Robert-O. Anderson
Robert O. Blake
John E. Bryson
Ward B. Chamberlin
Richard M. Clarke
Edwin C. Cohen
Louisa C. Duemling
Alice F. Emerson
John Firor

Jose Goldemberg
Michio Hashimoto

James Gustave Speth
President

Mohamed T. El-Ashry

Vice President for
Research & Policy
Affairs

1709 New York Avenue, N.W.
Washington, DC 20006, U.S.A.

BOARD OF DIRECTORS

Cynthia R. Helms
Curtis A. Hessler
Martin. Holdgate
James A. Joseph
Thomas E. Lovejoy
Alan R. McFarland
Robert S. McNamara
Scott McVay

Paulo Nogueira-Neto
Thomas R. Odhiambo
Ruth Patrick

Alfred M. Rankin, Jr.
Roger Sant

James Gustave Speth
M. S. Swaminathan
Mostafa K. Tolba
Russell E. Train
Alvaro Umana
George M. Woodwell

OFFICERS

J. Alan Brewster

Vice President for
Administration &
Finance

Jessica T. Mathews
Vice President

Wallace D. Bowman
Secretary—Trasurer

-23-

 




 

(T56 AmericanAssemBﬁr

COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY

Trustees

ARTHUR G. ALTSCHUL
CHARLES BENTON
WILLIAM BLOCK
RICHARD BLUMENTHAL
COURTNEY C. BROWN
JEWEL PLUMMER COBB
BRADLEY CURREY, JR.
MEYER FELDBERG
ROBERT H. FINCH
ELLEN V. FUTTER
ROBERTO C. GOIZUETA
CLIFFORD M. HARDIN
B. R. INMAN

SOL M. LINOWITz
KATHLEEN H. MORTIMER
FAYEZ SAROFIM

ISABEL V. SAWHILL

DANIEL A. SHARP, ex officio
ELEANOR BERNERT SHELDON
MICHAEL I. SOVERN, ex Ofﬁcio
STEPHEN STAMAs, Chairman
PAUL A. VOLCKER
CLARENCE C. WALTON

Officers

DANIEL A. SHARP, President

DAVID H. MORTIMER, Vice President
ELEANOR H. TEJIRIAN, Secretary-Treasurer

Trustee Emeritus
J. ERIK JONSSON

New York
Illinois
Pennsylvania
Connecticut
New York
California
Georgia

New York
California
New York
Georgia
Missouri
Texas

District Of Columbia
New York
Texas

District of Columbia
Connecticut
New York
New York
New York
New York
Pennsylvania

 




ment. According to the report, it is anticipated that Treasury
would not prepare every EIA itself but would work with the
banks to see that they or the borrowing nations prepared neces-
sary EIAs.

Senate Environment reported the bill July 14 by unanimous
vorce vote.

The Treasury Department is vigorously opposed to the
measure. Ofﬁcials say that, rather than focusing on internal
procedures within the United States, it would be more productive
to work directly with the management of the banks and with
borrower nations to improve environmental protection in bank-
funded projects. They also say the assessment would come too
late in the planning of a project to be useful.

The Congressional Budget Ofﬁce estimated that implemen-
tation of the measure would require an additional 30 full time
Treasury staff at a cost of approximately $1.5 million annually.

Environmental groups’ responses to the concept have been
mixed. Some favor it; others have expressed concern that the
banks and borrowing countries could resent what they might
perceive as the imposition of U.S. domestic law on international
ﬁnancial institutions.

Staff say Sen. Bob Kasten (R-Wis.), who has been the
Senate leader in the move for reform of the banks’ environmental
practices, may offer an amendment to Symms’ amendment to
improve environmental decisionmaking within the banks more
directly. Further details were not available at press time. (For

background on Symms’ bill, see July 11 WeeklyBulletin, p. B7,.

and June 13 Weekly Bulletin, p. B10. For additional information
on Congress’ activities to improve the banks’ environmental
performance, see Member’sBrieﬁng Book, p. 26.) S. RpL 100-
502. — SR, LC '

 

ON THE SENATE FLOOR D

 

 

 

 

 

 

Wildlife

To reauthorize and amend certain
wildlife laws — HR 4030

Floor action: Possible this week.

This collection of several different non—controversial wild-
life management proposals has already passed the House.

Provisions in the measure would:

- amend the Lacey Act Amendments of 1981 to make it a
federal offense for hunting guides to lead expeditions for the
purpose of killing wildlife illegally;

- amend and reauthorize through 1993 the Sikes Act (PL
86-797), which regulates ﬁsh and wildlife conservation activi-
ties on federal lands;

- extend the authorization for expenditures under the 1961
Wetlands Loan Act;

- amend the Migratory Bird Hunting Stamp Act of 1934 to
allow a deduction of expenses for marketing;

- transfer ownership of a federal ﬁsh hatchery in Georgia
to the University of Georgia;

- transfer ownership of three federal ﬁsh hatcheries to the
states of Kentucky, New Hampshire and Wisconsin;

- authorize additional funds to increase the size of
Hawaii’s Kilauea Point National Wildlife Refuge;

- - make technical changes to a ﬁsheries conservation pro

gram for Oregon’s Klamath River;

- require the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service and the
secretary of the army to study ﬁshery resources and habitats of
the Russian River basin in California;

. authorize the interior secretary to relinquish to a state
exclusive jurisdiction over all or part of any U.S. Fish and
Wildlife Service lands; and ,V

- reauthorize appropriations for the Fish and Wildlife
Conservation Act of 1980 through 1990. A new section is also
added to require a study of migratory non-game birds.

Two amendments were offered during Senate Environment
markup last week. The ﬁrst would allow the Anny Corps of
Engineers to transfer ownership of a sunken barge to a private
corporation. Staff say the barge is threatening turtle habitat off a
Puerto Rican island, and a private company .will remove the
barge.

The second amendment would designate Massachusetts
Bay as an estuary of national signiﬁcance and require prepara-
tion of a restoration plan for the bay.

Senate Environment approved the measure Sept. 23. Report
not ﬁled at press time. —— BM

 

 




 

ON THE SENATE FLOOR Cl

 

Environmental policy

To authorize appropriations for the
Office of Environmental Quality —- S
1792
‘ ' Floor action: Possible this week.

' As reponed by Senate Environment, 5 1792 would amend

the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) to reauthorize
appropriations for the Ofﬁce of Environmental Quality.

Th'e bill also includes policy provisiOns on independent 9

regulatory agencies, hydropower projects and special- -use air-
space zones. ' ‘

Sen. Steve Symms (R- Idaho) is expected to offer as an
amendment on the ﬂoor the text ofS 2753 (S. Rpt 100-498), a
bill to apply NEPA- like environmental impact assessments
(EIAs) to projects funded by development banks such as the
World Bank. "

Senate Environment ordered S 1792 reported by voice vote
on June 23. The hazardous wastes and toxic substances subcom-
mittee marked up the bill March 15. The full committee removed
from the subcommittee version of the bill a provision concerning
a tire- to- energy facility proposed for construction in Connecti-
cut.

The House passed a bill (HR 2020) similar to S 1792 on June
22.

The House bill includes all of the provisions of S 1792
exceptthehydropower andairspace provisions. Additionally the
House bill would amend the Fish and Wildlife Foundation
Establishment Act (PL 98-244) to raise the foundation’s authori-
zation to $5 million annually through ﬁscal year 1993.

Background: NEPA (PL 91-190), which was enacted in
1970, sets a national environmental policy and requires federal

, agencies to conduct their activities in a way that will promote
.“the general welfare” andbein‘ ‘harmony” with the environment.

Agencies are required to develop environmental impact
statements (E18 3) before undertaking major federal actions that
may affect the environment. The Environmental Protection
Agency reviews these statements and makes 11s comments avail—
able to the public. '

. The law also created the Council on Environmental Quality
(CEQ), a three member body of presidential appointees to
_ oversee compliance with the act, monitor environmental trends
and advise the presrdent and Congress on environmental matters
, The Ofﬁce of Environmental Quality provides staff and
administrative suppert to CEQ: Its last authorization expired m
September 1986. 'ré: ,_.., , .

S 1792: The bill, which was introduced Oct. 16, 1987, by
Sens. Max Baucus (D Mont) and Dave Durenberger (R- Minn. ),
authorizes $750,000 per year for ﬁscal years 1987, 1988 and
1989 for the Ofﬁce of Environmental Quality. The actual appro-
priations for these years are $800,000, $826,000 and $850,000.

The bill broadens the deﬁnition in NEPA of a “federal
agency” to speciﬁcally include “independent regulatory agen-
cres.”

Ofﬁcials from the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
(FERC) over the past several years have raised questions about
whether they fall under the jurisdiction of NEPA because of the
commission’s status as an independent agency designated by an
act of Congress rather than the executive branch.

...._...,
K‘s“ .‘

 

WEEKLY BULLETIN, SEPTEMBER 26, 1988

Baucus said in introducing S 1792 that, while most inde-
pendent agencies have embraced the CEQ regulations in their
entirety, FERC has chosen to implementcertain provisions of the
regulations and to ignore other parts.

S 1792 also would modify the scope of a FERC rule
concerning hydropower projects.

Section 401 of the Clean Water Act prohibits federal agen-
cies from authorizing construction of a hydroelectric project or
other facility that may result in any discharge into navigable
waters unless a state or interstate water pollution control agency
has certiﬁed that the project complies with the act’s water quality
standards.

The law permits FERC to waive the requirement, however,
if the state has failed to act within a reasonable period of time, not
to exceed one year after the state receives the request for
certiﬁcation.

Until last year FERC considered the one-year clock to begin
running aftet the state received a completed application, includ-
in g any supplemental information the state requested.

Last year, however, FERC changed the one-year period to
begin as soon, as the state receives the initial request for certiﬁ-
cation, regardless of whether the state later requires supplemen-
tal information from the applicant. The old policy had led to
indeﬁnite delays in certiﬁcation, FERC argued.

The new rule also is retroactive, which means at least 227
projects in 32 states that already have made license applications
would not be subject to state certiﬁcation.

S 1792 would give states one year from enactment to
complete the certiﬁcation process for previously ﬁled projects.

The bill also makes clear that designations by the Federal
Aviation Administration of special-use air space must conform
to the requirements of NEPA. Sen. Harry Reid (D-Nev.) origi-
nally raised the air—space issue when he introduced S 1584, which
would require EISs for the designation or expansion of military
and civilian air-space zones.

Under S 1792, the FAA would be required to adopt proce-
dures for independent review of Department of Defense compli-
ance with CEQ regulations.

DOD would have to notify state governors, Indian tribes
and, in certain cases, the secretary of interior of all preposed
special- -use air-space designations. For ﬂights below 3,000 feet
and for supersonic flights, the department would be required to
publish notices in newSPBPCTS 0f general Circulation within the

affected area and to provide an opportunity for public comment.
At the request of a state governor, the department would have to
conduct a public meeting on the proposed air-space designation.

Other provisions of S 1792 would:

- authorize CEQ to promulgate regulations —- a job the
council has done for years without speciﬁc authorization;

. make it clear that ElSs are required for all major actions
taken by the U.S. government, even if they occur outside U.S.
boundaries; and

- require federal agencies to review environmental impact
statements they prepare under NEPA. Agencies would be re-
sponsible for monitoring whether predicted adverse environ-
mental effects actually took place, whether prescribed mitigation
measures were implemented and whether they were effective.

Symms amendment: Symms’ bill would require the
Treasury Department— which oversees U.S. participation in the
banks —— to make EIAs available 120 days prior to aU.S. vote on
a proposed bank project “signiﬁcantly” affecting the environ-

 

 




CONVENTION FOR THE PROTECTION OF ANIMALS

Preamble

THE CONTRACTING STATES,

REALIZING the need to establish effective,
comprehensive and international standards for the
ethical, humane and rational treatment of animals,
intrinsic to the faithful stewardship of the animal

kingdom, and

REALIZING the practical problems arising from a lack of
uniformity in the animal protective legislation of the

various States, and

SEEKING to institute a practical mechanism which
resolves the differences arising from the lack of
uniformity in the animal protective legislation of the

various States when they engage in animal trade at the

international level, and

RECOGNIZING the widespread international concern Over

abuses of animals involved in international trade, and

 




RECOGNIZING that heretofore there existed no
comprehensive international instrument which
effectively confronted these abuses and mitigated their

severity, and

CONVINCED that meaningful and effective protection of
animals and fulfillment of mankind‘s obligations toward
animals can only be assured through the concerted

action of all States‘

HAVE AGREED upon the following provisions:

ARTICLE I

(Fundamental Principle)

1. Humans have a responsibility to adopt

standards for and methods of providing responsible

stewardship for animalsr_l/

 

,l/

The word animal is defined as.....

 




ARTICLE II

(Appendices)

1. There shall be three Appendices to this

Convention:

a. Appendix I of this Convention shall
include a listing of devices and techniques which when
used to capture, kill, or manage wild animals cause
unnecessary suffering or are likely to cause
indiscriminate harm, including, but not limited to,
death. Any listing under this Appendix shall be
designated as either being totally banned or as banned

unless specifically allowed and controlled by a Party .

b. Appendix II of this Convention shall
list the general standards of captive-animal care as

well as standards of care for members of specific

species in captivity. The general standards of care

shall apply to specific animals only as is biologically
appropriate. Care standards shall deal with issues
such as suitable quarters, nutrition, medical care,
sanitation, and exercise space both in "permanent"

quarters and during transport.

 




c. Appendix III of this Convention shall
list those devices or techniques used for the
confinement or transportation of animals which shall be
prohibited as being likely to cause injury to or death
of an animal. Any such listing may be for animals

generally or for specific species.

ARTICLE III
(General Prohibitions in Capturing or Killing

Wild Animals)

1. In addition to the devices and techniques
specifically proscribed under Appendix I of this
Convention, it is especially forbidden in capturing or

killing any animal:

a. To employ devices and techniques known

to cause unnecessary suffering in animals, and/or

b. To employ devices and techniques which

are likely to cause indiscriminate harm to animals.

 




ARTICLE IV

(Minimum Standards of Captive—Animal Care)

1. In addition to the standards of care for
captive animals provided in Appendix II of this
Convention, it is especially required that humans
having custody of captive animals tend those animals in
a humane manner, consistent with the responsible
stewardship of the animal kingdom. This must include

but is not limited to:

a. Providing "permanent" quarters, with
adequate nutrition, medical care, sanitation and
exercise space suitable for the species and numbers in

captivity, and

b. Providing, during transport, suitable
quarters, with adequate nutrition, medical care,
sanitation and exercise space appropriate for the
species, number of animals, and duration of

transport. The use of transport quarters must be

strictly limited to those periods when active transport

is occurring, and must not be used as "temporary" or
"interim" quarters during "layovers". Quarters used in
such circumstances must be the equivalent of permanent

quarters.

 




ARTICLE V

(General Prohibitions in Captive-Animal Care)

1. In addition to the techniques and devices
specifically proscribed under Appendix III of this
Convention, it is especially forbidden that any animal
be held in captivity under any condition which may

cause harm to the animal.

ARTICLE VI

(Implementation and Enforcement)

1. The Party States to this Convention agree to
implement and enforce this Convention by adopting

procedures and/or laws necessary:

a. To prohibit the export, import or

transshipment through their jurisdictions of animals,

whether as live specimens or as parts and derivatives,

which were captured or killed using devices and/or
techniques prohibited under Appendix I of this

Convention.

b. To prohibit the capture or killing of

animals by techniques or devices listed in Appendix I,

Sections A and B.

 




c. To permit the use of techniques listed
in Appendix I, Sections C and D only as specifically
authorized by the Party State and only under strictly
enforced regulations which must be consistent with the

policy and provisions of this Convention.

d. To prohibit the export, import or
transshipment through their jurisdictions of animals,
whether as live specimens or as parts and derivatives,
which were subject to captive maintenance and/or
transport not meeting minimum standards relative to
activities required by Appendix II or prohibited by

Appendix III of this Convention.

e. To require that all captured animals
receive the minimum standards of care as set forth in

Appendix II and not be subjected to any of the

prohibited techniques or devices set forth in Appendix

III.

f. To provide for the confiscation of any
animals which are being, or animal parts which have
been, subjected to treatment in violation of any of the
Appendices' provisions, and to provide for the
disposition of all live animals in a manner consistent

with the policy and provisions of this Convention.

 




suitable inter-governmental or non-governmental
international or national agencies and organizations
technically qualified in protection and humane
treatment of animals. The interim Secretariat shall

call a meeting of the Conference of the Parties not

later than one year after the entry into force of the

present Convention.

2. The Conference of the Parties to this
Convention, using the power of a simple majority of the
quorum, shall appoint a permanent Secretariat to
administer the day—to-day functionings of the present
Convention, and to perform any special duties entrusted
to it. The composition of the Secretariat, its
headquarters, and other matters which relate to its
functioning shall be determined by the Conference of
the Parties. Subsequent meetings of the Conference of

the Parties shall be on the following schedule:

a. Regular meetings of the Conference of
the Parties shall be called at least once every two
years, and may be called in conjunction with meetings
held under the Convention on International Trade in

Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora, and

 




b. Extraordinary meetings of the Conference
of the Parties shall be called by the Secretariat on
receipt of a written request of at least one~third of

all Parties to the present Convention.

ARTICLE XI

(Amendment and Interpretation of the Convention)

1. This Convention and/or the Appendices may be
amended by a two—thirds majority of Parties present and
voting at any meeting of the Conference of the Parties,
whether regular or extraordinary. Other votes, except
as provided in Article VIII.2., at meetings of the
Conference of Parties shall be decided on the basis of

a simple majority of those present and voting.

2. All proposals to amend the Appendices, to
amend the Convention, for resolutions for
interpretation or implementation of the Convention, or
for any other matters affecting this Convention must be
subject to a vote of the Conference of the Parties, and

must be communicated to the Secretariat at least 150

days before the scheduled regular or extraordinary

meeting of the Conference of the Parties at which the
proposal is to be submitted for debate and vote, for
distribution to all Parties at least 60 days before any

such meeting.

 




3. In addition to the requirements in

Paragraphs 1. and 2. of this Article, consideration of

an Amendment to the Appendices shall be governed by the

following:

a. Any Appendix may be amended, by addition
or deletion, by an affirmative vote of two—thirds of
those present and voting either affirmative or

negative, at a Conference of the Parties.

b. A vote to amend shall occur only after
presentation of a format—oriented brief which sets
forth sufficient pertinent details that it may be

argued in open debate.

c. Any amendment adopted at‘a meeting shall
enter into force 90 days after that meeting for all
Parties except those which make a reservation in

accordance with Article XIII of this Convention.

4. Only a Party may offer proposals referred to

in Paragraph 2. of this Article.

 




ARTICLE XII

(Resolution of Disputes)

l. Disputes between two or more Parties
concerning the interpretation or implementation of the
present Convention shall be subject to negotiation
between the Parties involved in the dispute. If
negotiation fails, Parties may, by mutual consent,
submit the dispute to arbitration, in particular that,
nf the Permanent Court of Arbitration at The Hague, and
the Parties submitting the dispute shall be bound by

the arbitral decision.

ARTICLE XIII

(Reservation)

l. The provisions of the present Convention

shall not be subject to general reservations. Specific

reservations may be entered in accordance with the

provisions of this Article and Article XI.3.c..

2. Any State may, on depositing its instrument
of ratification, acceptance, approval or accession, or
within 60 days after an amendment to any Appendix,

enter a specific reservation with regard to:

a. any species specifically listed in

Appendix II or III; or

 




b. any technique or device prohibited or

controlled by Appendix I or III.

3. Until a Party withdraws its reservation

entered under the provisions of this Article, it shall
be treated as a State not a party to the present
Convention with respect to trade in the particular
species or parts or derivatives specified in such

reservation.

ARTICLE XIV

(Ratification)

l. The present Convention shall be ratified as
soon as possible. The ratifications shall be deposited

at ' . The first deposit of

 

ratifications shall be recorded in a proces-verbal
signed by the Representatives of the Parties which take
part therein and by the Minister of
Foreign Affairs. The subsequent deposits of
ratifications shall be made by means of a written

notification addressed to the

 

Government and accompanied by the instrument of

ratification.

 




ARTICLE XV

(Adhesion)

l. Non—Signatory countries may adhere to the
present Convention. The country which wishes to adhere

must notify in writing its intention to the

 

Government, forwarding to it the act of adhesion, which
shall be deposited in the archives of the said
Government. The said Government shall at once forward.

to all Parties, and all governments which have

previously deposited instruments of adhesion, a duly.

certified copy of the notification as well as of the
act of adhesion, stating the date on which it received

the notification.

ARTICLE XVI

(Renunciation)

1. In the event a Party wishes to denounce the

present Convention, the denunciation shall be notified

in writing to the Government, which

 

shall at once communicate a duly certified copy of the
notification to all the other Parties and governments
adhering to the present Convention, informing them of
the date on which it was received. The denunciation
shall have effect in regard only to the notifying
Party, and only one year after the notification is

received by the Government.

 

 




ARTICLE XVII

(Signature)

1. A register kept by the Ministry

 

of Foreign Affairs shall give the date of the deposit
of ratifications made by virtue of Article XVIII, as
well as the date on which the notifications of adhesion
or denunciation have been received. Each Party is
entitled to have access to this register and to be

supplied with duly certified extracts from it.

2. In faith of which the Plenipotentiaries have
appended their signatures to the present Convention.

Done at , the of ,

 

 

 

lQ__, in a single original which shall remain deposited

in the archives of the Government, and

 

duly certified copies of which shall be sent, through

the diplomatic channel to the Parties.

 




Device (outline) For Proposing Additions to AppendixIII
APPENDIX III

Prohibited Techniques or Devices for Animals
in Captivity

Proposal — (Example: Ban of restraining devices
that result in permanent physical injury
or disfigurement).

Proponent

Supporting Statement

1.) Description of the technique or device

2.) If appropriate, the specific animals affected
by technique or device

3.) Humane considerations

4.) Environmental implications

5.) Availability of alternatives
Economic quantifications
Difficulties in monitoring and regulation
Current legal status

a. National
b. International

Additional remarks

References

 




 

OctobS‘

LouiSS RH 11
Arbor Drive
in“*1org.

me Senator
with a few

3d1ﬁv
t0 you

wynl
comm}
i hope Senator Moynihaﬂ
Hmﬁqanimatelv One hundred
will bS Snluzl
indicat only

will

full

welfareg”

56 inspectorS
USleSS the plan Sodifie
travel on? diStaSCSS betwe
jSSpection SiteS not to mention air
3 antlers, tSuS mLVQF€ly educinp “?1
labowato iSS d SSimSl Serf” lerS
Due to continu ng-7 pr«ssure, we
veuc.inSPiSnS from HSDA‘S Vete
contractSd wit1 to do Some of
Senator SoySiESS will urge *

{I

1" 1n

GONG-17.11

7.‘ .a
s_.

:‘2...-.z-,.,.

by) 1.1:): bfﬁ

33‘73

..
if.»

(“*1 <3

i
b
’1
V
’1!
‘L

Q34

“1 i
81171:.
Pi HP
tnese
Sat thi

'l

ion
PPOW“8ﬂlM&T
WERS 1’er

informa’
the

to our
before
ionS without
USS of some of
don’t ekly accept fewer
prevail on tSiS,

According
Symbered 485
MOPQ iSSpect
t1wwvel~

m:

n-IA V

Nd SSS rous to rely on
I have visitSd
founa tSS w1ances on S Single
A Second Visit often reveals severe
Spparent the fi rSt time Further,
SS iSSSSc ct 10S
w~.lS year, it can relax standards
SS in violation of the 113111w
péCtiORS is absolutely basic tS
Animal welfare Acta T1113
he Improved Standards for
SSSitS PiSSS mUSt not accept
DA SS effective enforcement»

only
1;...

V

T119

fc
Tn,
.q

‘.

-. I.) 1 Vii

’1
(‘4,

J3 SS’

ry

'5
CHE“

time
these péople
inspections,

11121113?
Visit can

if
and KEEQWS that Sum, 1631"
Slthout

1S doubly
LSbOPS

M1

8

letter. I‘m

eats“

d inspectors

en the more than 8

ports and inter SDdlS‘J

S number 01 inspect1on of
Jill be possible to make“
beginning to hear that
Services may T38
inspectionsg hope

("I

O

T
A.

S be done,

E”"\'\'
.14!.y’
MUN)

LOG

tuallr
,1b’c

:11 C
111
and Some:
can still
and I belle'

M‘ood recoriS“
labore toriSS
be
neglect and
an
one

a;

to j:
and
S dcﬁ ceiviwl
abuse not
institution pSS
won't come f0?
” Sr of bSng

3i

3
w. s
2.1

r

{:3
tad.

1'33
inciple
ctiva
true
Aﬁlm‘
annual

pr
"9 V
:If9

 

J

tSPy
DJJL’:

 

 

 

 




 

 

 




/
,

X D

’mfnifeb ${afes ﬁenafe

WASHINGTON. D.C. 20510

October 5, 1988

Ms.,Louise R. McInnis
21 Arbor Dr.
New Hartford, New York 13413

Dear Ms. McInnis:

Thank you for your letter urging better enforcement
of the Animal Welfare Act by the United States Department
of Agriculture (USDA). I share your concern.

The Animal Welfare Act requires the USDA to "pro-
mulgate standards to govern the humane handling, care,
treatment and transportation (of animals) by dealers,
research facilities, and exhibitors." The Animal and
Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS) has‘been charged
with, among other responsibilities, the implementation
and enforcement of this important legislation. In order
to more efficiently carry out the inspections and
research involved in the enforcement of these regula-
tions, APHIS is now in the process of reorganizing the
agency so that eleven areas of responsibility will report
directly to the Administrator. One of these areas will
concentrate on animal welfare.

The Regulatory Enforcement and Animal Care division
will be composed of approximately 100 full-time staffers
whose sole concern will be animal welfare. Responsi—
bility for animal care regulatory enforcement will now be
handled by a division devoted entirely to animal care,
instead of being divided among 300 staffers who also
handle many other issues. Although fewer staffers will
be working on enforcement, these Staffers will be devot—
ing their efforts to animal welfare regulation enforce—
ment full—time, instead of only part—time, as in the
past.

APHIS is legally required to make one inspection per
research facility per year. Under Regulatory Enforcement
and Animal Care, facilities with a history of non—com-
pliance will be inspected more often, while facilities
with good records will continue to be inspected once a
year.

APHIS has not yet determined who will head the Regu-
latory Enforcement and Animal Care area, but they have

 




Page 2

assured me that candidates for the position will be ex—
pected to enforce the Animal Welfare Act in an unbiased
and impartial manner.

Again, thank you for your concern, and please do not
hesitate to contact me again in the future if you have
any questions on this or any other issue.

Sincerely,

’\—QfL.o 'wa

Daniel Patrick nihan

 




"/4! JID'T“‘
_ 2115;;
II I x ‘n . X ‘ \i‘
It’"IIL. 1IIJI-‘
~ I .ll‘fDI
» AI J" -J
i //

\\ UII'IO"// I.

World Society for the Protection ofAnima/s

Sociedad Mundial para la Proteccioh de Ios Animales
Socie'te' Mondiale pour la Protection des Animaux
We/ttierschutz—Gesellschaft

AWESTERN HEMISPHERE OFFICE

29 Perkins St., P.O. Box 190, Boston, MA 02130,
(617)522-7000

ASSESSMENT OF

DOG-EATING IN

THE REPUBLIC OF KOREA
(SOUTH KOREA)

WSPA REPORT SERIES Report #BOS 02-01—88
Prepared February, 1988

 




Introduction

This Report, one of a series of reports on international
animal protection by the WORLD SOCIETY FOR THE PROTECTION OF
ANIMALS, is an assessment of the practice of dog-eating in The
Republic of Korea (South Korea). The findings are a result of
an initial on—site investigation and continuing on-site follow-
up.

Much attention has been focused on The Republic of Korea in
recent years due to widespread allegations of cruelties towards
dogs by Koreans. There has been a worldwide publicity campaign
to pressure Koreans into changing their attitudes and behavior
regarding dogs. This effort has resulted in some actions by the
Korean government to regulate the custom and circumstances of
dog-eating, but any effect these actions have had on improving
conditions for dogs has been negligible.

Four distinct geographic areas were selected for the initial
field study. These included areas in and around the cities of
Seoul, Taegu, Pusan, and Kwangju. Individuals from many
socioeconomic levels (including government representatives,
university officials, farmers, merchants, housewives, restaurant
owners, laborers, schoolgirls, businessmen, and beggars) were
interviewed regarding the practice of dog-eating by Koreans.
Structured interviews, informal interviews, and observations of
the investigators, were included in the investigation process.
Government and newspaper documents complemented the observations
and interviews. During the initial one-month study, 33
restaurants, 41 markets, and 15 breeding sites were observed.

” It is concluded that dog-eating is widely practiced in
Korea. Even individuals who do not eat dog-meat were found to
support the custom of those who do. People who do eat dogs are
found in all parts of Korea, and are on all socio-economic
levels. Dog-eating is rooted in Korea‘s history; traditional
beliefs strengthen the practice, and it is notmshowing any signs
of dying out. i

“'M’ The Report begins with a brief review of the history,

religion, and culture of Korean society insofar as this offers
insights into today‘s Korea. Markets, restaurants, and breeding
areas are described and characterized according to observations
and interviews.

 




Background - Korea

Korea, as a distinct national entity, boasts a history of
more than 4,000 years. The Republic of Korea (South Korea) is
located between 124.11 and 131.55 degrees East-longitude and
between 38.07 and 43.01 degrees North-latitude. With a land
mass of about 60,000 square kilometers, The Republic of Korea
has only about 30% flat land. Jagged mountains and gentle
rolling hills characterize the country.

Paleolithic sites were discovered in the 19605 that point to
the evidence of a Neolithic society that existed as early as
4270 B.C. Today's Korea was first settled by wandering tribes
from central and northern Asia. These nomadic tribes had their
own language -- a variant related to Turkish, Hungarian, and
even Finnish. Language, for Koreans, has remained a factor for
national unity. The invention of "Hangul," the Korean language
based on a phonetic alphabet, encouraged a nearly universal
literacy by modern times.

Korea has survived thousands of years of aggression from
powerful nations that neighbor it. Under colonization by China
for most of its early history, Korea nevertheless retained its
own national character and, by the 4th century A.D., had a
centralized government built around an hereditary military
aristocracy. Through its contacts (albeit hostile, for the most
part) with China, Korea was introduced to Buddhism, Confucian—
ism, arts, and architecture. Of all the influences from China,
none flourished more than Buddhism.

Finding itself the battleground between China and Japan, the
Korean proverb was born: "When two whales fight, shrimp get
hurt." To avoid total devastation, Korea went into a period of
isolation and became known as the "Hermit Kingdom." When,
during the Russo-Japanese war in 1904, Japan annexed Korea, an
era of forced assimilation occurred. Korea resisted the
extirpation of its language, customs, and culture, and managed
to survive the erosion of its unique identity. Korea regained
independence in 1945 after Japan lost all her territories
through defeat in World War II. Having been continually overrun
by other countries, the Korean people have developed a strict
code of nationalism. Nevertheless, the 1945 independence split
the nation into two, leading to the bitter civil war in 1950.

The recent economic prosperity in Korea has been attributed
to the so-called "westernization" of the country. The cities
have grown large. with modern conveniences and comforts.
Despite the prosperity (or perhaps because of it), Korea is in
political transition. This is a period of expectancy within the
country as it appears to be directed toward a new democratically

 




_3_

elected government in the near future. Whether or not this has
implications for the status of animal protection in this
country, remains to be seen.

Dog-eating in Korea

As far as it is known, dog-eating in Europe peaked at about
the Bronze Age. Eating of dogs led to breeding them for a
constant meat supply. As early nomadic populations moved about,
they brought their dogs into new regions and interbreeding of
dogs of various species from geographically-distinct groups
occurred. In China, dog-eating was an ancient custom rooted in
cultural and religious origins. Puppies from a litter would be
fattened on a special diet and slaughtered for consumption.
Dog-breeding became a business that yielded good fortunes.

Types of dogs used for consumption usually differed from the
ones used to perform practical duties (guarding or other
"work"). Dogs to be eaten were from the pariah or mongrel
variety. Pariah dogs were spread worldwide. During Pharaoh's
rule in Egypt, for example, pariah dogs were so abundant they
were considered a nuisance. Nations in northern Africa held the
pariah dogs in enormous contempt as it was believed the dogs
were dirty and infested with diseases. In Korea, a kind of
yellowish-white pariah dog is most commonly used for food.

In general, dogs in Korea, as in some other countries, are
viewed as a commodity. Even pure-bred dogs are mainly regarded
for the price they will bring at pet stores. This utilitarian
attitude places the cow higher in esteem than the dog, for both
its work and food value.

The practice of dog-eating has existed for centuries in
Korea and there are many folk-beliefs associated with it. "Gae
go gi," or dog-meat, is said to have definite medicinal effects
for humans. It is thought to be especially potent when eaten in
the heat of summer. About a five-week period, from the last
week of June to the first week of August, is prime-time for
eating dog-meat. Even the most modern restaurants do not
install air conditioners for this reason. Some Koreans believe
that since no matter how hot the weather, the dog is never seen
to sweat, therefore dog-meat will protect humans from heat-
induced suffering. Also, because dogs pant vigorously with
f little activity, they are said to be beneficial for respiratory-
,x related illnesses. For this reason, gog:meat is reportedly
jtkprescribed for patients with tuberculosis. Whilewsomewfoods,-
I ceaten ”Constantly, will' bring satiatioﬁ7“4t“i§ said that no one
ever tires of eating dog-meat. ' ”

 




-4...

Eating of dog-meat crosses all socioeconomic lines, from the
most well-to-do businessman to the struggling fieldhand. Those
who most vigorously eat dog-meat state that small pariah dogs
are the best tasting and have the best effect on the body. Some
"traditionalists" maintain that the dogs must be freshly kiIIedr"“

twcooked” in the cleanest water' possible, and eaten without any
kind of seasoning that could mask the meat‘s true flavor. Most
Koreans, however, use spicy seasonings on the meat. Dog-eating
§"outings" were a preferred way of enjoying such a meal, but this
ttradition is declining due to cost, effort, and pressure from
i the government.

Some Koreans who eat dog-meat prefer dogs that have not been
cared for by people. They say that dogs must scavenge for
themselves and roam free to have the best taste and effects on
the body. Also, they prefer the dog to be small, scraggly, and
killed by slow strangulation for it to be good to eat. (l)

While many uKoreans say the practice of dogséating is on the
wane, only six out of 70 interviewees actually denounced
dog-eating. The remainder either supported dog-eating for
themselves, or supported others' right to eat dogs.

Restaurants

Restaurants that serve dog-meat are found in all parts of
The Republic of Korea. It is easy to locate a restaurant
serving dog-meat near any of the larger cities or in the rural
areas. Many restaurants hide the fact that they serve dog-meat,
but they are commonly known by the locals. On hot summer days,
such restaurants are packed with customers to the point where
there are visible waiting lines outside.

As a result of international pressure, actions have been
taken by the Korean government to prohibit the serving of
dog-meat. Laws and regulations have been passed, as well as
directives from the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries, and
from the Ministry of Information and Social Affairs. Although
some restaurants have been forced to close, the sheer number of
places that sell and prepare dog-meat make effective enforcement
extremely difficult.

 

(1) The popular press has reported the "live boiling" of cats and dogs. Our investigation
did not confirm these reports. Moreover, it is questionable that the killing would occur
in this—manner, as the animals would excrete unacceptable bodily fluids and matter

into the water, thereby contaminating the "broth".

 




-5-

While it is officially illegal to operate eating establish-
ments that serve dog-meat, it is nearly impossible to calculate
the number of restaurants that serve dog-meat in Korea. Most do
not have signs to advertise the dish. Some establishments even
change the store sign to deter suspicion.

Restaurants serving dog-meat were found in all four regions
-- from Seoul to Pusan, from large cities to isolated country
roadsides. In general, they cater to a large group of Koreans
who have eaten dog-meat for generations. All restaurants
observed were Korean-style, with low tables and rooms detached
from the kitchens. They were family-operated businesses that
had been established for many years. In some instances,
ownership of the restaurants went back generations. They ranged
in size from a small shack-type house with room for no more than
four people, to large mansion-style restaurants with a capacity
for hundreds of customers at a time. Other than size, there
were few differences between restaurants in cities and those in
rural areas. Rural restaurants tended to be less crowded and to
serve mostly a lower-class rural clientele.

With the exception of three small restaurants in rural
areas, live dogs were not seen in the restaurants. Dogs outside
the restaurants at Kukje Market (see Appendix) were housed in
small wooden cages about three feet by four feet in size. At

his site, two light-brown pariah dogs were in the cages and
appeared to have sufficient room to move around. Bowls full of
food and water were to one side in the cages. Three other dogs,
about two feet in length, were tied to a post outside of a small
restaurant in Sangye, near Seoul, and all the dogs looked to be
in good Condition. The restaurant at Mok' Po, near the south-
western city of Kwangju, had two live dogs tied to a post in the
front yard.

Most of the restaurants serve dog-meat in two different
ways: "Boshintang" (dog-meat soup) is served along with "Gae
jjim" (basted dog-meat). All meals are served with traditional
side dishes of rice, "kimchi" (pickled cabbage), dried fish,
seasoned root stocks, spinach, and other vegetables along with a
large bowl of soybean soup. Dog-meat is usually served first
before any other dishes are brought out. Seasoning of the meat
is done by the customer, mixing a dip of five or six tablespoons
of dog-meat soup with red pepper powder, wild sesame seeds,
scallions, sugar, bean powder, leek chips, and other ingredients
according to the desired spiciness. Such a meal will cost from
$7 to $11 (U.S.) which is considered expensive for an average
Korean.

 




Markets

People who are unable to pay the expensive price of a meal
at a "boshintang house" may visit a local open-air market to buy
fresh dog-meat or live dogs for consumption. These bustling,
colorful open-air markets are usually large and sell everything
from toothpaste to fabric, toys to seafood, automobile tires to
dress clothes. The markets serve a social function as well as
an economic one, with people meeting to talk, drink, and have a
good time.

Most of the merchants are from the working class. Most
markets are not organized in any specific manner. A fish market
may be next to a lingerie store, a book store next to a dog-
shop.

Forty-one markets were visited which sold dogs and dog-meat
in the four study sites. Dog-shops ranged in size from small
stands that sold only a few sections of meat, to huge sprawling
areas that covered large sections of the markets. There were
shops that only sold live dogs and those that sold all dog
products, including "gae soju" (dog-meat wine). (2) Most sold
both live and freshly-killed dogs.

The largest dog-markets observed were Joong Ang market in
Seoul, and the "Gae dari" (dog-leg alley) market in Pusan. Live
dogs, dog-meat sections, articles used for cooking dogs and, to
a lesser degree, dog-wine, were sold.

Smaller live dogs (under two to three feet long) were kept
in cages, and larger dogs were tied to posts near the shop.
Most of the animals had little room to move around, as cages
tended to be crowded. Overall conditions evidenced little
regard for the dogs.

Construction of the cages was varied, from wooden planks to
metal bars. Most often, however, the dog cages were made from
wooden planks nailed together to form a box. This was then
covered with sheets of chicken wire or other thin wire wrapped
around the outside of the box. The majority of these cages had
cardboard sheets for a floor, but many cages lacked even that,
making it difficult for the dogs to move about. The cages fit
one on top of the other, stacked. Stacks of four cages at the
Joong Ang market were the highest stacks observed, with about
forty stacks in various areas of the market. All of the dogs

 

(2) It is alleged that in the preparation of gae soju, dogs are forced to drink an alcohol
(derived from sweet potatoes) and they are then severly beaten prior to death in order
to tenderize and darken the meat. Our investigation into this continues, as we have
observed a similar procedure with other animals in other countries.

 




_7_

in the cages were of the pariah variety. The market also sold

large black pots said to be used to cook the dogs.

The dogs barked and wagged their tails upon approach of
people toward the cages. People treated the dogs indifferently,
as they would any other product.

Gae dari market in Pusan consisted of four dog-shops within
the Kukje Market. It sold live as well as freshly-killed dogs
on the premises, and also dog-meat wine. Live dogs were in
cages on the ground outside the store. Large black pots with
black spherical lids lined the inside of the store. The dogs in
cages were crowded, with inadequate room to move around or even
to stand upright.

The dogs are kept in the cages until they are sold. Smaller
dogs are sold by size and appearance; larger ones by weight.
They are given no exercise, nor are they washed or groomed.
Metal bowls to feed the dogs were found in most cages. All
fecal matter was removed, as were all food scraps remaining in
the cages, but there was always a strong stench in the dog-shop
area of the markets.

Dog-meat commands a high price at the markets, costing from
$8 to $10 (U.S.) per pound; making it more expensive than beef.
The meat is sold right over the counter or from a metal tub, and
includes the skin, fat, and the bone still intact.

_—anv Dog-shops are not inspected by the government. Selling of
dog—meat in markets is also technically illegal. Dog-shops
operate as bootleg businesses in the larger atmosphere of the
legitimate markets. The government of The Republic of Korea has
passed legislation to ban the sale of "disgusting" items, but it
has not deterred these dog-shops from thriving.

 

Dog-breeding areas

Many households in Korea keep dogs. When a litter arrives
into a household, the newborn puppies are screened and the ones
thought to be desirable (energetic, loyal, alert, strong, etc.)
may be kept as pets; the rest are sold to local dog merchants.
These merchants may be hired out by dog-breeders or work
independently. Dogs are sold to breeders in order to raise them
to acceptable size, in about four to six months according to the
dog's growth rate.

Dogs that are found in markets and restaurants in Korea are
obtained principally from the dog-breeders that work out of
farms and communities in the rural areas. Fifteen such areas
were observed that bred and raised dogs for various purposes,
mostly to sell to markets in the cities. All dog-breeding areas
observed, except one, were part of a larger business that relied
on other products for their income. For example, the farms
observed raised cattle, pigs, sheep, chickens, and graincrop as

 




-8-

their main source of income. (3)

Dog-breeding “areas .on Chind Island were the exception, as
they raise Chindo dogs which are protected in Korea. Chindo
sags are highly prized because of their rugged appearance and
the loyalty they exhibit to their owners. These dogs are raised
in the yards of private houses on Chind Island. They are well
cared for in comparison with the pariah dogs.

Dogs observed at the other fourteen sites wgggwkgﬂﬁwmainly
inwwpens_in the field, not too far from the house. The pens were

“ﬁrinéfbaiiy “ﬁaaé" Bfw wooden planks arranged to form enclosures
that resemble horse corrals. In some areas (Won ju, Chin Young,
Kim hae), the dogs were allowed the run of the farm. In
general, dogs in breeding areas were well-treated as they were

“Wm growing. Crowded conditions seen in the market places were not
pwfevident on the farms.

Diet for the dogs included rice gruel and a variety of fresh
vegetables; tablescraps were never given to them. A large
trough for water was often seen in the area. These dogs would
be raised until large enough to be sold.

Some breeding grounds are reported to puncture the eardrums

;:>of the dogs to prevent them from hearing the approach of people.
i This is said to be done to prevent the dogs from barking and
{ yelping which irritates the farmers. If so, this may explain

K\mmihe extreme passivity upon handling of some dogs observed.

WW!"

The breeding sites varied in size and character. Chin Young
(Pusan) was the largest breeding site with about 40 dogs. Most
of the dogs were kept in pens in the yard and had space to
roam. Larger dogs were tied to posts near the house and a few
smaller dogs ran free in the yard. All dog-breeding areas were
part of rural farms (except Chind Island), and some were rather
small. The smaller ones (Ban Ya Wol, Oak Po) raised fewer dogs,
kept in pens or on the farm premises, and depended on their rice
crop and textile products for income.

There were minimal geographic differences in the breeding
sites observed. Dogs in the breeding areas were mainly bred
from existing stock, and only a minority brought from else-
where. All farms were operated by working class people who have
been raising dogs for many years. Since many rural households
in Korea raise dogs that are not for sale, identifying the farms
which did was sometimes difficult.

 

(3) WSPA is also investigating allegations that dogs are ranched for their fur, which
Koreans call "gae wolf". It has been reported that 1 million gae wolf pelts are ranched
per year. There is no animal known to us as "gae wolf", and since "gae " means dog

in Korean, we are inclined to take these allegations seriously and will follow-up

the report.

 




-9—

Dog- breeding is carried out without the support of the
government. These farms are ‘not licensed to raise dogs, and.
tinspection of suCh places is unheard of throughout Korea. There
whas been little real effort by the government to halt dog-
breeding. ' '”' "“

Transport and slaughter

Many dogs are slaughtered at the breeding site, then trans-
ported to the markets and restaurants. Dogs are killed either-
@by .a_ sharp blow to the back of the neck or by a fatal blow to
the forehead with a heavy mallet. Killing dogs by hanging is a
“waning practice except for those who believe in the traditional
methods of dog-eating. The "traditionalists" erroneously
believe that killing a dog by slow strangulation improves the
quality of the meat by making it tender.

Once killed, the fur is removed and the meat is transported
to the market. The dog meat is piled in metal tubs.

Live dogs are transported in cages from the breeding sites
to the markets. Trucks, motorbikes, and bicycles are used, and
the dogs are transported by breeders or by people hired to
transport them.

Small dogs ,are placed in cages that measure about two feet
by two feet, and about three feet long. The dogs have little
room to move around. Medium- sized dogs (two to three feet long)
are transported in a similar manner, in trucks. Larger dogs;
were seen transported in cages and tied to the bed of trucks.
In some instances, large dogs were crammed into deep cages,
loaded» from the topYWWThése dogs looked to be piled one on top
of the other, in distinct layers. The dogs are then taken to
the city to be sold to shops.

The dogs experience extreme crowding during transport.
Trucks were observed with an estimated l50 puppies 1n 4O cages,
with three or four puppies in each cage._ The cages were stacked,
in piles of four, in three rows.w Although some movement was
“possible for some of the dogs, mOSt were overcrowded. Length of
time spent in the cages depends on the distance travelled by the
merchant. No food is given during transport. Plastic covers on
top of the cages protected the cages from the natural elements.
The cages were held in place by quarter-inch ropes or rubberized
cords lashed to the edges of the trucks.

Upon arrival at the markets, the dogs are lifted out one by
one, and weighed on hang scales. Larger dogs are sold by weight
and are hung by the neck until they are weighed, for about a
five-second period. The weight is registered and the dog is led
into the cages in the market. Smaller dogs are sold
individually, not by weight. All dogs observed were timid and
offered no resistance to handling.

 




Cat-eating in Korea

A lesser-known practice of eating cats by Koreans was
observed during WSPA's investigation of dog-eating.

Cats were often seen in households and on farms. They were
treated better than pariah dogs, for the most part, and seemed
to be allowed to move as they pleased. There were no places
observed that appeared to raise cats purposely for sale, and

“-restaurants were not found to servemcatemeat:

* Open-air )markets 3that were visited, hqwsver, exhibited many
cages that were full of kittens. and,_in the larger markets,
catgg “ Although the quantities of cats and kittens observed were
~r65s' numerous than dogs, QSQZ§h°PS openly advertised cat-meat
and cat-in-broth along with doélméaET”WW”“”“““““”“”"“

“” Cats’ were kept in extremely croWded conditions with five or
six, together. in gcages measuring less than three feet in Width,
Ewe ”feet “in“ height, and thrEeh'feet in length. Kittens were‘”
observed clawing each other and meowing loudly.

The vast majority of people questioned denied knowledge of
cat-eating. Many exhibited reactions of surprise and
astonishment at the question.

Only four people (out of the 70) interviewed stated that
they had heard about the practice of cat-eating. These cited
medical uses for cat-meat, in that the elderly who suffer from
arthritis and bone degeneration benefit greatly from a steady
diet of cat—meat.

Traditional "Han Yak" (medicine) stores specialize in Korean
medicines. Owners of such stores contend that cat-eating has
all but disappeared in Korea. One mentioned the popularity of
cat-meat in North Korea, wherewgtwiﬁmsaid that cats are boiled

- alive in pots to get the maximum medicinal effects.

Kyoung Hee University, a college specializing in traditional
medicines, was visited, but with little success. The professors
at the college were inaccessible and the research assistants
refused to be questioned.

Comparative figures on cats used for human consumption are
unknown at this time. Transport of cats to market was not
observed. Qgtreating appears to be less common than dog-eating,
nonethless it does occur‘ to some degree and should be
investigated further.

 




Conclusion

Historically, attitudes of Koreans towards dogs have been
utilitarian at best, abusive at worst -- particularly towards
the pariah dog. It is common to see, in the streets, pariah
dogs stoned kicked, hand chased by people of all ages., ”“W

“Wm While there is muCh public denial of the prevalence of
dog-eating, it continues to exist throughout the country. Given
the economic motivation (large sums of money are involved in the
sale of dogs and dog- meat) and the cultural mores, the only
effective incentive for ceasing this practice may come only from
outside pressure on the Korean Government. '
“" Forced closings of stores ”and shops that sell dogs and
dog- meat may not be sufficient, alone, to bring about a lasting
suppression of dog-eating. In addition, therefore, WSPA is

pressing for:

-immediate expansion of the laws to cover all
transport, handling, confinement, and
methods of killing -- with effective en-
forcement;

-while conducting urgent efforts to pressure
the government to educate its people to-
wards a more responsible, humane ethic
towards companion and other animals.

 




 

 

Headquarters

Trevor H. Scott. F.A.A.|.,
M.B.I.M., F. Inst. C.M.
Director General

Margaret P Corderoy
FHA Al. M. Bl. M
Group Ac countant
Tel: 01-839—3026

Regional Ofﬁces

Victor Watkins

Eastern Regional Director
106 Jermyn Street
London 8‘ NW BEE

Tel: 01— 839 3066

George S. Drysdale
European Regional Director
106 Jermyn Street

London SW1Y 6EE

Tel: 01—839—3066

John C. Walsh

Western Regional Director
PO. Box 190

29 Perkins Street

Boston, MA 02130

Tel: 617-522—7000

Section Ofﬁces

215 Lakeshore Boulevard East
Suite No. 113

Toronto, Ontario M5A 3W9
Tel: 416-369—0044

Apartado Aereo 75002
Bogota, Colombia
Tel: 571-255—7967

Apartado 516
Heredia. Costa Rica
Tel: 506-397-158

C‘rfﬁcers
John A. Hoyt
President

Sra. D. Marsans Comas
Deputy President

R. Steiner
Vice President

Dr. Hans-‘Jurgen Weichert
Vice President Special Tasks

Dr. Murdaugh 8. Madden
Secretary

Robert S. Cummings
Treasurer

Directors

Mr. G. Achermann, Italy

Mr. E. Bliss. USA.

Mr Robert Cummings,
U

Mr. Ed. Davis, U.S.A.
Mr, F. Dixon Ward. U.K.
Mrs. N. Erickson, Canada
Dr. E. Frederikson, '
Denmark
Mr. HP. Haering,
Switzerland
titre. Ruth Harrison, U.K.
Mr. John Hoyt, USA.
Mr. T. Hughes. Canada
Mr. Paul lrwin, USA.
Mr. Max Jest, Switzerland
Mrs. A Zum Kolk,
FR Germany
Prof. Dr. H. Kraft,
FR. Germany
Mrs. E. Lagerstrom,
Sweden
Mrs. Yvonne Lando,
Belgium
Herr G. von Langheim,
Austria
Mrs. K. Longman, U.K.
Mrs. P. McAllister, Ire/and
Dr. MS. Madden. USA.
Sra. D. Marsans Comas,
Spain
Mr. Otto Ratz, Hungary
Sir Cameron Rusby. U.K.
Mr. TH. Scott, U.K.
Mrs. A. Singh, India
Mr. Arthur Slade, L/.S.A.
Mi. R. Steiner, Switzerland
Dr: Hans .Jurgen Weichert,
FR. Germany
Mr. Neil Wells. New Zealand
Herr Arno JH. Zuan ,
Luxem ourg

 

 

 

li‘corporating the World
Federation for the Protection
of Animals rounded in 1950
and the lnternational Society
for the Protection of Animals
founded in 1959.

 

 

 

 

 

“grave:

Lvlﬂ'ﬁl . \
l' MIIIV”' KER;
l’"'IL. ill}

II
‘ﬁ§§§§“ﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬁy

\\\\\\‘I I""”’/

World Society for the Protection ofA nima/s
Sociedad Mundia/ para la Proteccion de los Animales
Société Mondiale pour la Protection des Animaux
‘ Welttierschutz+G‘eslellschaft ‘1

BOSTON, MA 02130, (617) 522-7000

1988.

29 PERKINS ST., PO. BOX 190,

June 16th,

WESTERN HEMISPHERE OFFICE
JW/PR

Jessie Despard,
Animal Welfare Institute,
P.O. Box 3650,

Washington, D.C. 20007.

Dear Ms. Despard,

Thank you for your telephone call yesterday requesting
reprints of the photographs published in our flyer regarding
the eating of dogs and cats in South Korea.

Please find enclosed the full report on this issue prepared
by one of our field representatives who visited that
country. I am sure you will find the report of great
interest, and it should answer any questions you may

have on the trade of dog—meat in South Korea. I have

also enclosed, as requested, a reprint of the photograph ‘
that appears on the first page of the flyer.

I trust the enclosed will be of use to you. Should
you publish an article in your newslettergwe would appreciat
receiving a copy of it. We would also ask that any
information or photographs that are published are credited
to our organization.

Should you have any further questions, or need any other
materials, please do not hesitate to contact us.

Sincerely,

am am.

Pauline Rafferty.
Assistant to the Regional Director.

e

 

 

 




g " N29 Perkins Street ,
' PO Box 190 Baston, Mass 02130

TO ANIMAL PROTECTION ORGANIZATIONS MAINTAINING MEMBERSHIP WITH WSPA

We are sending you this brochure as a source of information on the
practice of dog—eating in The Republic of Korea (South Korea}.

This summer, the Olympic Games in Seoul will bring vast numbers of
international visitors to South Korea. Tourists to that country will
be horrified to see what is happening to the thousands of dogs that
are cruelly killed, cooked, and eaten in public View. We anticipate
an avalanche of complaints to WSPA and to local animal protection
organizations from these returning tourists. It is also expected that
the international press will tend to sensationalize this issue,
resulting in further public outcry.

While dog-eating is illegal in South Korea, the laws are not enforced
and the practice is widespread. It is not only the custom of

dog— eati ng which concerns WSPA -- the conditions under which the
animals are transported, handled and slaughtered are also intolerable.

WSPA executive staff have made direct representation to the embassies
of The Republic of Korea in England, Europe, the United States,
Canada, and Central and South America, to express our concerns about
the inherent cruelty in the practice of dog-eating. Because the
Korean Government has not responded in a positive and definitive way
to our representations, WSPA is expanding our efforts to end this
practice.

We expect that your organization may wish to initiate your own
campaign against dog-eating in South Korea“ utilizing petitions and
letters ofﬂprotest from your own rembership.

As a ser ice to our member organizations, WSPA will make available the
full REPSRT of our on- site investigation upon request. WSPA will also
supply, at nominal fee, copies of the photographs which appear in
this brochure for your own publication.

 




 

 

 

 

 

The practice of dog-eating has
been a tradition for centuries in
many countries of Southeast Asia—
including Cambodia, Laos, Vietnam,
Thailand, the Philippines, and
SOUTH KOREA (The Republic of
Korea). While government officials
of South Korea assure outsiders that
this abhorrent custom is disappear-
ing, travellers to that country report
witnessing caged dogs being
transported to markets where dog—
meat and live dogs are sold at the
many “dog-shops.”

COMPLAINTS to WSPA and to
local humane societies will INCREASE
as waves of tourists return from the
Summer Olympics at Seoul. While
the Olympics is not a political
event—nor should it be—the fact is
that international visitors to South
Korea will be horrified by the suffer—
ing of these dogs and will expect
effective action from WSPA to stop
these practices.

WSPA has conducted an on-site
investigation into the occurrence of
dog-eating in South Korea, travelling
to different geographic areas (visiting
33 restaurants, 41 markets and 15
breeding farms) to document our find-
ings. In addition to our own observa-
tions, we interviewed 70 South
Koreans of various ages, occupa-
tions, etc. for their views. We now
have indisputable evidence that dog—
eating not only continues in the
Republic of Korea, but is
WIDESPREAD throughout the

country.

 

‘ ‘ ,,
b.‘ .

Dogs being transported to market to be sold for eating—typical sight.

PHOTOS taken to accompany
the full REPORT by WSPA Field
Services, tell the true story of what
is happening to thousands of dogs
(and CATS) in South Korea.

CAGIN G, TRANSPORT AND
SLAUGHTER of the dogs occur
under primitive circumstances, as
these photographs illustrate. Puppies
are raised on “dog farms” in rural
areas and brought to market in
various conveyances—from bicycles
and motorcycles, to truckloads of
dogs jammed into small transport
cages. At the market, they are crowd—
ed into holding cages with little room
to move. There, they await their fate
with wagging tails as the customers
approach.

MARKETS openly advertise
dog—meat (“gae go gi”) and dog—meat
soup (“boshintang”) served on site.
Live dogs are butchered “fresh” for

 

home consumption, or cooked for
immediate serving after the customer
has selected his “meal.”

ENDING THIS INHUMANE
TRADE in dogs will not be easy.
But with the increase of tourism to
The Republic of Korea, the time to
act is NOW!

Box of dog-meat at one of many open markets.

 

 

 




 

BACKGROUND ,

Korea has existed as a distinct
national entity for over 4,000 years.
Surviving repeated aggression and
colonization by its neighbors, Korea
has maintained its cultural identity
with perseverance and dignity. With
nearly universal literacy, Koreans are
highly nationalistic and justly proud
of their history. Westerners would be
mistaken to underestimate the
venerable heritage of this ancient and
honorable civilization.

The Republic of Korea (South
Korea) emerged from a bitter civil
war in the 19508 which split the
nation and plunged it into turmoil.
More recently, South Korea has ex-
perienced increasing growth and
economic prosperity. Despite that
prosperity, however, or perhaps
because of it, the country is in a
period of political transition.
Whether or not this has far—reaching
implications for the status of animal
protection remains to be seen.

The practice of dog-eating may
be as old as Korea itself. As in many
early societies (e. g., dog-eating is
thought to have “peaked” in Europe
during the Bronze Age), the custom
addressed an important need—
provision of food in times of scarce
resources. From Pharaoh’s Egypt to
modern-day Korea, the dogs com—
monly used for consumption were of
the “pariah” or “mongrel” variety
and certain characteristics made
them more or less desirable to eat.
Over time, the custom and its rituals
became rooted in cultural and
religious lore, and finally, in
mythology.

Today, it is this mythology,
rather than necessity, which
perpetuates the practice.

. use?”

i" § ‘2
l 1. iv"

w: mam”— mvwww .4“
Q ‘ ' ‘

xx;

’ maid": W 7. - a

 

 

'.

xu“‘*”~~ﬁm—Imnmv~rwm}w
W_

"N” "-r"*‘ i - .1 ., ' ‘ .1. . , ,, \ - '

 

Eating of dog-meat crosses all
socio—economic lines, from the well-
to-do businessman to the struggling
ﬁeldhand. “Gae go gi” (dog—meat) is
believed to have many medicinal
qualities—for example, that it pro-
tects humans from heat—induced suf—
fering because dogs are never seen to
sweat. Thus, dog—meat is supposedly
extra—potent in the height of summer,
particularly from the last week of
June through the first week of
August. Also, because dogs pant
vigorously with little activity, they
are believed to be helpful in warding
off respiratory—related illnesses. For
this reason, dog—meat is said to be
prescribed for patients with tuber—
culosis. Preferred, are the smaller
dogs for taste and for the best effect
on the body.

”Traditionalists” maintain that
the dogs must be freshly killed (by
slow strangulation), cooked in the
cleanest water possible, and eaten
without seasoning that would mask
the ﬂavor. Some also prefer stray
dogs to farm-bred dogs in the belief
that small, scraggly dogs which roam
free and scavenge for themselves are
the most beneficial.

To Koreans, dog—eating is not

only customary and acceptable, it is
healthy.

 

 

Awaiting their fate, dogs wag their tails at
passers-by. Small dogs are preferred.

N ~‘§‘

L _

g9 ﬁniliiimiu agar

.. 1' m Ill i
’ i' , eggs! j
‘ E ‘58:- ..

‘n:§i

Symbol on sign (left) reads “dog stew, a specialty.” Sign on shop beyond truck (right)
cat.” Dogs on rear of motorcycle soon will be transferred to holding cages.

Dog-shops with their menus openly displayed outside—lines of cages filled with dogs for sale.

RESTAURANTS AND
MARKETS

While it is officially ILLEGAL
to operate eating establishments
which serve dog-meat, these
“boshintang houses” are found
throughout South Korea, making en-
forcement of the laws difficult. The
restaurants range in size from shacks
(with a capacity as small as four peo-
ple) to mansions (with a capacity of
hundreds), in both rural and urban
areas. It is nearly impossible to
estimate the exact number of such
places, as most do not have signs
advertising the dish. Locals always
know where to go, however, and on
hot summer days lines of customers
can be seen waiting outside to be
seated.

Restaurant menus do not differ
significantly from one to another.
Most serve dog-meat soup (“boshin-
tang”) and basted dog-meat (“gae
jjim”) along with the traditional side
dishes of rice, pickled cabbage, dried
fish, seasoned root stocks, spinach
and other vegetables, and soybean
soup. Seasonings (red pepper powder,
wild sesame seeds, scallions, sugar,
bean powder, leeks, and other ingre-
dients) are provided for the customer
to use as desired. The meal typically
will cost from $7 to $11 U.S.—which
is considered expensive for an
average Korean.

The alternative to the more—
expensive boshintang houses, is the
local open-air market. These are
numerous, usually large, all—purpose
markets that sell everything in profu-
sion, from toothpaste to toys. The
markets serve a social function as
well as an economic one, with peo-
ple meeting there to talk, drink, and
enjoy themselves. Although
technically ILLEGAL, “dog-shops”
are commonly found in most of the
markets. Largest of the 41 markets
we visited were Joong Ang market in
Seoul, and “Gae dari” (dog-leg
alley) in Pusan.

Outside the shops, smaller dogs
are crowded into cages and larger
dogs are left tied to posts. Signs

 

advertise “live dogs,” “freshly killed
dogs,” and “dog-meat;” also popular
is “gae soju” (dog-meat wine).
CATS, although less numerous, were
also seen in cages, and signs adver-
tise CAT-MEAT in broth.

Conditions of the dogs in cages
are generally deplorable, with little
room to move around or, occasional-
ly, even to stand upright. Food and
water was observed frequently to be
inadequate for the number of
animals. Exercise or grooming of
any sort was non—existent. Dogs are
kept in these cages until they are
sold. Smaller dogs are sold by size
and appearance; larger ones, by
weight.

Customers may have the dogs
slaughtered for home consumption,
or may have the dog prepared and
cooked at the market stalls for im—
mediate eating. Dog—meat (skin, fat,
and bone still intact) bought directly
over the counter from a metal tub, is
priced at about $10 U.S./lb.—making
it more expensive than beef.

1- ‘.
It,

Restaurant worker taking chosen dog to cook it
for the waiting customer (who has a bag with
his own utensils in his hand).

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

Many households in Korea have
dogs; when a litter is born, some
may be kept but the rest are sold to
local dog merchants. Principally,
however, dogs found in markets are
obtained from dog-breeding farms—
most of which are part of a larger
farm with the main source of its in—
come from livestock (pigs, sheep,
cattle) or produce (grain, vegetables).
Breeding sites vary in size; the
largest we observed had 40 dogs.
The dogs are generally well kept in
outdoor pens with adequate room—
although it was reported to us that
some breeders puncture the dogs’
eardrums to prevent them from bark-
ing at noises.

At four to six months old, the
dogs are either slaughtered at the
breeding site for the supply of dog—
meat to restaurants and markets, or
they are transported live to the
markets. The dogs may be killed by a
sharp blow to the back of the neck or

 

by a blow from a mallet to the
forehead. Killing the dogs by
strangulation is thought to be a wan-
ing practice.

Transport may take the form of
bicycle, motorcycle, or truck. The
dogs may be transported by the
breeders, themselves, or by others
hired for that purpose. The transport
cages measure about two by two by
three feet. Some dogs are actually
piled on top of each other in layers.
Trucks were observed to carry as
many as 150 dogs in 40 cages.
Length of transport time varies.

When the dogs reach the market,
they are lifted out one by one. Larger
dogs are hung by the neck (for about
five seconds) while they are weighed.
The weight is registered and the dog
is led into the cages in the market.
Smaller dogs are sold individually,
not by weight. All dogs observed
were timid and offered no resistance
to handling.

WORKING ON BEHALF OF ANIMALS FOR OVER 30 YEARS, WSPA IS THE ONLY INTERNATIONAL
ANIMAL PROTECTION ORGANIZATION TO HAVE OFFICIAL CONSULTATIVE STATUS WITH THE

UNITED NATIONS. WSPA HEADQUARTERS ARE IN ENGLAND (LONDON), WITH OFFICES IN THE
UNITED STATES (BOSTON), CANADA (TORONTO), COLUMBIA (BOGOTA), COSTA RICA (SAN JOSE)
AND NEW ZEALAND (AUCKLAND). ’

 

 

WSPA EXECUTIVE STAFF HAVE MADE
DIRECT REPRESENTATION TO THE
EMBASSIES OF THE REPUBLIC OF
KOREA IN EUROPE, CANADA, THE
UNITED STATES, AS WELL AS IN
CENTRAL AND SOUTH AMERICA
TO INFORM THEM OF WSPA’S OBJEC-
TIONS TO THE INHEREN T CRUELTY
IN THE PRACTICE OF DOG—EATING.
WHILE WE HAVE BEEN ASS URED
THAT “SOMETHING WILL BE DONE”
ABOUT THE SITUATION, WE ARE
NOT C ONFIDEN T THAT IMMEDIATE
ACTION WILL BE TAKEN—TOO
OFTEN WE HAVE HEARD EMPTY
PROMISES WHILE ANIMALS CON-
TINUE TO S UFFER. THEREFORE,

WE ARE LAUNCHING AN IN TERNA—
TIONAL PROGRAM TO STOP DOG—
EATING IN SOUTH KOREA! WE
NEED YOUR HELP TO ACCOM-
PLISH THIS. . .BY WRITING YOUR
MESSAGE OF PROTEST T 0 THE
AMBASSADORS LISTED BELOW:

I.

His Excellency Kyung-Won Kim

Ambassador of The Republic of Korea
to the United States

2370 Massachusetts Avenue NW

Washington, DC. 20008

2.
His Excellency Dr. Keun Park
Ambassador of the Permanent Mission
of The Republic of Korea
to the United Nations
866 United Nations Plaza — Suite 300
New York City, New York 10017

_—_——_—_———_—_—————_—ﬁ

TO HELP US MONITOR THE
RESPONSE, PLEASE CHECK-OFF
AND RETURN TO THE WSPA
OFFICE IN THE ENCLOSED
ENVELOPE. THANK YOU!

YES, I have written a letter of protest to:

29 PERKINS STREET, PO. BOX 190
BOSTON, MA 02130 (617) 522-7000

 

I.
I
l
|
I
l
I
I
I
I
l
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
L

 




United States USDA News Division
Department of Room 404 -A

Agriculture Washington. D. C. 20250

Office of

##onnaﬂon Questa Glenn (301) 435-7776

Diane O'Connor (202) 447-4026
USDA DECIDES THREE ANIMAL WELFARE ACT COMPLIANCE CASES

NASHINGTDN, May 3l--The U.S. Department of Agriculture settled three
cases during April to enforce the humane care and treatment of animals
regulated under the Animal Welfare Act.

James N. Glosser, administrator of USDA's Animal and Plant Health
Inspection Service, said the cases resulted from earlier charges. Details are
as follows:

-- Jack Deason of Rogers, Ark., agreed to pay a $1,000 civil penalty

 

without admitting or denying USDA allegations that he violated federal
licensing requirements of the Animal Welfare Act. USDA alleged that during
1986 and 1987, Deason sold at least 60 puppies to dealers and retail pet stores
without being licensed as a dealer.

-- The Louisiana State University, operating a research facility in

Baton Rouge, La., paid a $6,000 civil penalty to settle USDA charges that it

 

operated facilities at its Baton Rouge and New Orleans campuses in violation of
the required standards of the Animal Welfare Act. Also, as part of the settle-

ment, the university agreed to comply with all provisions of the act and to

cease and desist from future violations.

University officials further agreed to provide an ongoing training
program to insure that its employees are aware of animal welfare requirements,
maintain an institutional animal care committee to make certain that the
university is in compliance with all regulations and standards of the act,
distribute copies of the administrative decision to all of its personnel
responsible for the use, care and handling of research animals and submit a
written report within 60 days to USDA' 5 area veterinarian— in- ~charge in
Louisiana with precise details of how it plans to comply with each of the
requirements of the decision and order.

0592 -more- . 691—88

 

USDA news releases and other news. economic. and marketing reports are available electronically through
USDA’s EDI SERVICE. Call (202) 447-5505.

.-

 




A

‘d'

;29A alleged that on four :scasions between Feb. 11, 1985, ano 03-3 ’ ,

"he university violated housing, sanitation and veterinary care stanza. s

ling animals in housing facilities that were not structurally sound a
in good repair. In addition, USDA alleged that the facility had insufficie.
staff to maintain the prescribed level of husbandry practices, that some
animals were confined to primary enclosures that were too small for them to
change positions normally, that many were not provided sufficient water nor fed'
from clean containers and that rabbits were not provided adequate veterinary
care.

"a.
.:

—- Lydia Anderson of Union Springs, Ala., had her federal exhibitor's
license suspended for 90 days effective Aug. 1, 1988, as a result of a consent
decision entered into with USDA. Also, she was ordered by an administrative
law judge to pay a $1,000 civil penalty and cease and desist from future
violations of the Animal welfare Act. At the end of the suspension period, if
Anderson is in full compliance with the act, a supplemental order will be
issued to reinstate her license privileges.

 

USDA alleged that during five inspections between Dec. 19, 1985, and
Feb. 2, 1987, Anderson failed to comply with housing, sanitation and veterinary
care standards for foxes, prairie dogs, ferrets and cats exhibited and held at
her facility. Specifically, she failed to properly identify animals kept at
her facility, erect a perimeter fence to protect the animals from predators,
install adequate drainage to eliminate excess water, provide sufficient shelter
for animals kept outside, clean and remove debris from the premises, provide
adequate veterinary care and resting boards for cats and establish an effective
fly control program.

In addition to the three cases settled in April, two new charges of
violating the act were initiated, Glosser said. The animal exhibitor and
dealer charged will have an opportunity to respond and request a hearing before
an administrative law judge.

Standards for the care and treatment of certain animals nave been
required by the Animal Welfare Act since 1966. Animals protected by the law
must be provided adequate housing, handling, sanitation, food, water,
transportation, veterinary care and protection against extremes of weather and
temperature. The law covers animals that are sold wholesale as pets,
used for biomedical research, or exhibited.

Most enforcement is carried out under administrative law procedures in
lieu of criminal trials. In many civil cases, accused parties use a provision
of administrative law that allows them to accept a penalty without a hearing
and, in some cases, without admitting or denying the charges. Other civil cases
are resolved by a federal administrative law judge, who hears testimony and
reviews briefs by the parties before handing down a decision. Failure to
respond to USDA charges constitutes admission of guilt, and penalties are
assessed by an administrative law judge. Either party may appeal a decision.

Dealers, breeders, brokers, transportation companies, exhibitors and
research facilities must be licensed or registered. USDA personnel make .
periodic, unannounced inspections to help assure compliance. Action is taken
against violators after efforts to secure compliance are unsuccessful, Glosser
said.

 




 

March 4, 1988

Dear Al’llll'lal l-xTelfa.1_‘e Activist,

Enclosed you will find the r “ ' vew Age Journal,
which includes the article Animal Research Reconsideridyl I thought you'
might be interested in this groundbrealiing first .erson account by i‘iichael
Allen Fox, professor of philosophy at Queen’s Un’versity, Kingstoxi,

Ontario, and a former defender of Vivisection. n this article, Fox

tells of his radical conversion from defender of animal. experin‘ientatiox'i to
opponent. '

 

 

You may already be aware of Fox’s work throu h his book The Ease for,
Animal Experimentation (1986), which defended the use of animals in
scientific research. In the New Age article, Fm describes his sudden
andd profound spiritual awakening; he now b lieves that animal
experimentation should be completely abolish *d in the next fifty to one
hundred years.

If you would like to reprint any or all of 'Animal Research Recgjtonsidered,"
please contact Lisa Yane at the address a d phone below.

Sincerely,
ﬂ"

L.

Editor and Associate Publisher

ﬁléi‘i/h/ce/Graves \ [S W// V3004. DO %
ﬂow-e, root» ﬁ 7““?! Cf“; aims?

M“

. .34"

342 Western Avenue Brighton, Mass. 02135 (617) 787—2005

 




9,

,

L
:2: .
2'.

i

.'

.~‘

3.

‘ .,
~17.
E

.

g ..
i. I
as;
vtj‘
r :-
3 .
r.
.v'
:»,_
,.
1,...
0.?"
:n'
.3 ,.
7'

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

A former defender of vivisection struggles with his radical change of heart.

 

BY MICHAEL ALLEN FOX

HEN THEY THINK Of What it

must be like to have a profound

moral or spiritual awakening,

many people fix upon the dra-

matic and earthshaking. They
conjure up images of Paul on the road
to Damascus, or of Gautama, the Bud-
dha, forsaking his family to go in
search of enlightenment. There’s no
denying that such epiphanies occur,
but not all changes of mind and heart
are so striking. although they may be
quite dramatic and far-reaching in
their own way. Indeed, some simply
arise from the continuous process of
ferment and struggle that goes on
inside us. This has been my expe-
rience with the subject of animal
experimentation.

In early 1986 my book, The Case/or
Animal Experimentation, was published,
culminating a decade's work defending
in print and at various forums the use
of animals in scientific research. This
defense was necessary, I believed, be-
cause I saw antivivisectionist activists
as misinformed opponents of research
and irrational zealots who had become
adept at manipulating the media to
their own advantage. I also believed
that animal experimentation was indis—
pensable to human health and welfare,
and as a moral issue was of only peri~
pheral importance compared with the
central global concern of trying to end

 

r2!” away-'21.: 'wz 2::
'1 r1" "aw .

“TWA It“ '5 “7 ' 7f
s 1}“..3ﬁ, 'r,‘ Aitwv

 

 

Michael Allen F at is pro-

fessor of philosophy at 3.
Queens University, King-

ston, Ontario, and has '

been a frequent lecturer

in Canada, the United
States, andAustralia 0n ,
the ethics of animal ex- f.
perimentation. He is cur-
rently completingabook zi/ ~~
on the conceptzialfoun- 3:3? \ i ‘ =. .
dations 0f environmen- I"; ‘
tat ethics.

ERNIE SPARKS

human suffering. I thought that the
animal activists failed to understand
this and, in their self-importance, had
their priorities wrong. My own arro-
gant conceit was that I would set
them straight and reassert the power
of reason over their emotional narrow-
mindedness.

The case I constructed in defense of
animal experimentation rested upon

It became in Creasing’ly.

clear that I had been _
untrue t0 myselji that I)"
had been _ playingthe

-- philbsoph erstradz _

< tz'onaz‘ game ofsupeose

, ngl wa Mona!

' cerebrn m 70” Stilts j

three notions. I first asserted that
humans are superior to animals, a very
traditional anthropocentric (human-
centered) position based on the idea
that nature comprises a hierarchy of
moral worth with Homo sapiens at the
top. Second, in View of this, I attempted
to show how weak the grounds are for
granting animals full moral status, or
full “membership in the moral com-
munity." Since animals lack the capac-
ities that would allow them to be
responsible participants in the moral
institutions that govern human life
(the making and keeping of promises
and contracts, having rights and duties.
and so on), I reasoned that their moral
status must be hazy and indefinite.
Third. I was convinced that the social
benefits of animal experimentation
usually outweigh the suffering of the
animals used in the experiments. And
since animals had at best an adjunct
moral status, I concluded that their
use could be satisfactorily justified. I
did not see then, as I do now, that
deriving human benefits in this manner
raises additional, extremely complex,

moral questions.

. "The support and praise I received
from the scientific community (for I
was just about the only philosopher
working out such a position in detail)
was very gratifying, and the rewards
of being in the limelight reinfOrced my
dedication. I became self-satisfied and
firm in the conviction that my work
was part of a noble cause—helping
push back the overgrowth of ignorance
so that the promise and progress of
science could shine through.

Then in late summer and» early fall
a few unsettling events took place.
One was a stinging attack on my posi-
tion by a feminist critic. The search
for a general justification of animal
experimentation, I was told, was noth-
ing more than an attempt to make
ourselves feel less guilty about some-
thing we know is wrong and to ration-
alize our use of power over other beings
by disguising it as somehow sanctified
by the order of nature. My critic com-
pared the allegedly superior status of
humans to the traditional imbalanced
relationship between the sexes, which
also has been justified by claims of
natural superiority, in this case of
males over females.

As I thought about this, Igradually
began to see the issue from a different
vantage point. I realized that the pre-
vailing “inight-makes-right” approach
to human relations and the domination
of animals by humans are fundamen~
tally related. For the first time I under-
stood why Peter Singer. writing in
Animal Liberation, had linked? the
abuse of animals with various kinds of
discrimination and oppression among
humans. Despite all I had said and
written, I realized I had gone down the
wrong track in defending an anthro-
pocentric position. I was plunged into
a welter of self-doubt as the framework
upon which I had built my reputation
collapsed. My impulse was to hide and
to hope the iSsue would go away. But I
also felt driven to see the process
through and to find a new position,
one that I could live with and that
coincided with the values I thought I

 

 

NEW AGE JOURNAL

 

 




 

ﬁ:'\~\—‘~1. -... ..— .. -.....,a,v..r ...~ .. .v..

.‘or woo-”v

i
t
i
I

 

. . SHWWW'QIAWAM-t’c

 

 

 

 

 

held most deeply.
At this time. it was particularly dif-

ficult to reread my own book—which I

made myself do—because it brought
only dismay and alienation. I’knew
that mentally and emotionally I had
begun to move to another place; the
words seemed so strange, almost as if
they had been written by someone else.
Overall, this taught me a great deal
about humility but also raised a num-
ber of troubling questions about myself.

During this same period numerous
reviews of the book appeared, many
of them highly critical, some even
hostile. Authors frequently feel dissat-
isfied with their own works; there’s
always ‘ more that could have been
covered, more polishing that might
have been done, more objections that
could have been addressed, and so on.
But I had deeper misgivings about my
book, doubts that I later realized I had
carefully suppressed. These had to do
not only with the quality of my argu-
ment but also with the plausibility of
the position I had taken. Even more
importantﬁl had the vague inkling
that something essential was missing.

I didn’t realize what it was until
Jerrold Tannenbaum, writing in the
October 20, 1986 issue of The Scientist,
pointed out that “Fox. . .offers. . .a cur-
mudgeonly philosophy that begrudges
in principle the humane and decent
sentiments he would apply in prac-
tice.” I then understood that I had dis-
tanced myself from feelingin the book.

This was a stunning revelation,
though slow in coming, and one which
I fought against. Once having con-
fronted it, however, I experienced both
despair and elation. Despair stemmed
from my sense of complicity with other
self-deceivers and hypocrites who com-
mit various kinds of atrocities because
of just this sort of internal division
carried to an extreme. Elation grew
out of the relief I felt at being freed
from my long-running inner conflict
between reason and emotion-.WMany
other things fell into place ’as well. I
could now understand, for example,
why those reviewers who praised my
book and found few flaws in it disap-
pointed me, while those who were
highly critical, however hurtful, were
always more welcomed and appeared
more truthful and direct.

HESE EXPERIENCES opened the way
for nothing less than a change of
consciousness as I began making
new connections in my thinking. I

 

-. PEOPLE FOR iii}: ETHICAL TREA’I‘MEN'l or mantis '

The idea of invasive inquiry is what bothered me——taking living beings out of their natural context,
betraying their trust, subjecting them to unnatural and often painful procedures, and supposing that the
quest for knowledge and human benefits renders these things morally permissible.

also began reevaluating the underlying
prejudices, assumptions, and values
that are part of philosophical method-
ology. I considered, for instance, the
manner in which ethics typically has
been taught and practiced by profes-
sional philosophers, and how one often
hears terms like objective, disinterested,
dispassionate, and impartial used to
describe the reasoning processes of an
ideal moral observer or judge. We phi-
losophers learn to disconnect reason
and feeling, rather than study how the
two function together.

I’m not advocating that when we are
presented with moral dilemmas we
should simply let our emotions run
wild. But it is also wrong to suppress
our feelings so that we can look ra—
tionally at moral issues and seek solu-
tions that are divorced from real life.
This isn’t healthy. Morality, I began to

realize, calls for an intermingling of
feeling and reasoning. Ethical issues
are not just issues of the intellect.
Treating them as such leads to the
kind of cold and heartless social poli-
cies often associated with uncaring,
unfeeling politicians and government
bureaucrats.

As I weighed these uncomfortable
thoughts, it became increasingly clear
that I had been untrue to myself, that
I had been playing the philosopher’s
traditional game of supposing I was a
rational being above all else, a cere-
brum on stilts. The arrogance and fool-
ishness I had demonstrated by adopting
this studied detachment now appalled
me. For too long, I realized, I had been
putting aside my doubts about certain
kinds of research in order to avoid
dealing with the difficult inner conflict
between—as I now perceive it-—-science

 

JANUARY/FEBRUARY 1988

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

FIRST PERSON

 

 

 

 

 

and reason on the one hand. and con-
science, compassion. and common sense
on the other.

Equally revealing was the connec-
tion I made between the exploitation
of laboratory animals and that of the
environment as a whole. I have always
appreciated unspoiled wilderness, sup-
ported conservation programs, andop-
posed all forms of ecological abuse by
humans. I thought these values could
be sustained by an anthropocentric
philosophy, and that environmental
concerns and animal experimentation
were unrelated. But I eventually real-
ized that both of these beliefs were
false: Animal experimentation is a
s'u'bissue of environmental ethics. And
truly understanding ecology demands
that we see things whole, that we care
for the entire biosphere, which can
happen only when we abandon a
human-centered value system and live
in harmony with the world around us.
Animal experimentation, in fact, ap-
peared to me as just another case of
treating nature as a vast storehouse of
expendable and replaceable resources.

The moral shallowness of anthropo-
centrism came home to me most vividly

These experzences
Opened the way for

change of consczousness ;

as I began makmg new]
Connections m my

  thmkmg

as I recalled my own discussion of
what I had labeled in my book the
“Planet of the Apes problem," after the
1967 movie in which humans become
slaves and experimental subjects on an
ape-dominated planet. The problem was
whether a hypothetical species supe-
rior to humans would be justified in
using us as we now use animals. My
earlier conclusion had been that the
species would not: Our capacities as
autonomous beings would require them
to include us in their moral community.

I now found this an incredibiy feeble
argument, since I appreciated how eas-
ily we can deny animals a place in ours.

These kinds of reflections have had
a significant effect on my life in recent
months, as I have tried to think
through both their logical implications
and their personal meaning. For one
thing, I have adopted a vegetarian
diet, something that long seemed more
an eccentricity than a necessity. I’ve
also begun to change my lifestyle so
that it is less dependent upon animals
and animal products and is more eco-
logically responsible. Seeking out eggs
from free-range hens, declining to buy
leather-covered furniture, and favor-
ing toiletries that contain no animal
derivatives will not change the world,
but such actions have helped me
consolidate and express my values
and will perhaps inspire others to
think more carefully about their own
choices.

As someone who has always loathed
violence, I also began to see animal
experimentation as a peculiarly vio-
lent aspect of our culture’s relationship
to nature. Not all experiments are vio-
lent, though that depends a good deal

 

 

 

Introducing Stay Danni“
The last thing you need to know
“about stress.

 

Slav CalmTM is not intended to mask
the effects of stress, but to help
manage them. An effective stress
reduction program also requires life-
style modification including adequate
rest, proper nutrition, positive attitude
and regular exercise.

PACKAGED IN BOTTLES OF 90 CAPSULES.

“a
Montana Big Sky?) Quality products M9159
igtSLE/Eiznggiqziﬁm 59821 that improve health naturally. V

[.». . 1

Stress. An unhealthy aspect of our
modern lifestyles. Pressure from jobs,
relationships and responsibilities builds
until we become tense and irritable. Stay
calmTM from Montana Big Sky® is a
specially formulated, 700% natural
product using no artificial colors, fillers
or preservatives.

 

19994 HIGHWAY 93

 

 

 

NEW AGE JOURNAL

 




__ ‘ . .. ,.. .,.:-., - . 1- , .1 “~\F ,
,, . . . ... ,,, «WV-.rs-«ujv-NW" a .;i ' < - r ' - ~. <
if“: '33" 1, 49-” l r: A. ‘ _..__ U m,

- 5"”:
«.

. ,-_-.-.-, ir'ﬁ.
- I”,il!‘~';-’

. w.“- ‘- ~ -; 54.! . .. _ ”a, i
‘, ‘,.‘_,.,,,,,.. .7». ,r :- J t . 1- .. -7_'.- .; s --.*
alga»; - x’ 4' -*. 1-4-2- . ~ ' . ; ‘

3;. «semi-ram

.xi

 

‘5 no...

*3"

a.
WM

- own-war
‘~ - 'Q'Ys

 

 

 

 

VHAA‘QW‘A‘LKuI‘h-nv - .....»-. n ..:. .

,mmn—n. an»...¢..‘u
v
v

 

 

"The Butterfly Rises is a sensitive

the butterﬂy rises well—written, down—to-earth account of

‘- - w ‘ Kit Tremaine’s spiritual expiorarions,

especially as they are informed bvher

conversations with the trance chan—

nels, Verna V. Yater, Ph.D.. Kevin

Ryerson, and others. There is much

lore of the inner life in this book, and i

some useful inquiries about karma, '2 ‘
reincarnation, UFO’s, mystical insights, and other esoteric
matters, all of which is informed by Kit Tremaine’s intelli—
gence, good sense, and adventurous spirit.”

—Michael Murphy, Founder, Esalen Institute

The Butterfly Rises by Kit Tremaine
$12.95, softcover 216 pages ISBN 0—931892-15—5
. , Please prepay. Add 6% tax in California. Add $2 shipping for first book and $1.00
micavian:-mni-mrnurrrv: i {or each additional. Add $6 shipping outside US. 10% discount for 5 or more
.mm t”::,:‘,‘.:l,,li,uj’rim,13:23:,f”, ”NW books. Order from: Blue Dolphin Publishing. lnc.. PO. Box 1908, Nevada City. CA
I " H I ' N 95959. (916) 265—6923.

kit trerrznine

WQQ

 

 

 

 

When You Talk To Yourself,
Someone’s Listening

The “I CAN” is your friend. This exciting new
ains 101 quality affirmations to

ng a balanced and full

has a positive word picture,

followed by an affirmation, e.g., “A baby falls
many times as it learns to walk, but it gets
back up again.” I can risk taking a new step.

This is a gift you can give yourself or someone

I.“mam-$33:$1.223“ you care about. Satisfaction guaranteed.

1.3:. $12.55.
“May“ GZBE Publishers, Inc.

\w. “9" ‘

. 10900 NE 8th, #900, Bellevue WA 98004

(206) 454-0724

 

 

 

l

 

Brain nine-up ? 9

O Tuning up your brain/mind is fast becoming a reality. 0 Are you willing to achieve major breakthrou he in
0 More has been discovered about the brain and your ability to learn 933" . expand your brain, 6 iminate

the entire history of rain/mind science, neuroscience. blOCk your appiness and SUCCESS?

O Noted neuroscientist, albeit a rebel, John-David, ' Visit one Of our Br 3W Mind 33’0”? your brain’s ﬁt'
Ph.D., has discovered ‘sound patterns’ that when sent ”953 center TM! for a brain tuneup, opening '” a My near
to predesignated areas of the brain/mind allows for YOU- lnqumes '“V'Ied- ‘

greater concentration, creativity, peak performance, 0 Are you willing to cross the threshold into the

vast memory and even the eliminating 21 st century?

1 - . .
0 Old Se” sabOtage patterns I I F State of Calif. Authorized CEU/Nurses.
. seminars. 5 days, 24 hours a day, fee Accredited/Natl. Assoc. on Accelerated Learning.

even hile slee in .Total Immersion ' N.Y. AcademyofSciences
intensive. p g deggf’ewiﬂﬂgape' , ,
FREE TAPE & CATALOGUE: II, 99 e

1-800-437-5646 difference”

CA 1-800-624-9779

JOHN-DAVID LEARNING INSTITUTE
2443 Impala Drive 0 Psych. Dept.

Carlsbad, CA 92008

(619) 931-0456

Since 1976

National Seminars:
° Michigan

0 No. Carolina

° San Diego

0 San Francisco

° Hawaii 0 Boston

0 New York

0 Florida 0 Dallas

0 Minneapolis

 

 

 

—~.._ . v.._

_ ,FIRS T PE RS ON,”

on one's definition of the vcord. Still.
9 the idea of invasive inquiry is what ,
bothered me—taking living beings out
of their natural context. betraying
their trust, subjecting them to unnat-
ural and often painful procedures. and
supposing that the quest for knowl-
edge and human benefits renders these 3
things morally permissible. Perhapsl
l 80 percent of so-called laboratory ani-
mals are specially bred rats and mice?
that are, in some sense, human crea- ;
. tions. But this does not make them
' artifacts devoid of natural needs and l
feelings. “
1 Against this background, I began to}
l think more seriously about the reported
I cases of animal abuse and mishandling j
in laboratories. Some of these were,l
notorious, like the head injury exper~i
iments performed on monkeys at the
University of Pennsylvania and the
nerve-severing experiments at the
Institute for Behavioral Research in
Silver Spring, Maryland. Others were
less well publicized, like those sum-
marized in the Animal Welfare Insti-
tute’s 1985 book, Beyond the Laboratory
Door. I had always been assured that
these were exceptions, that almost all
experiments were performed in accord-
ance with the highest ethical standards.
Now I wondered if these exceptions
weren’t much more commonplace than
I had been led to believe.

__~_ \_‘. .___‘_. .t .. .. .... . . <._

‘ WW6 OleanPaul ._

faketobethe ever V» , ,

ﬁfesent huma 71 ’5 ability
freedome‘n’d tartan ' ‘
Ch“ ”g6? ifhedzrectzon of
1 our live-sf;

. X- '* ""V .
. , ' ., \ .- w -. ,

In December 1986, less than a year
after my book had been published, a
letter of mine appeared in The Scien-
list in which I stated that Tannen-
baum’s critique of my “curmudgeonly”
position was correct and that I now
rejected the main theses of my own
book. .I needed to satisfy some kind of
Confessional urge—the same urge to

NEW AGE JOURNAL

 




 

 

J- ' FIRST PERSO.\'___-

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

i which I later responded more substan-
tially by developing my views on the
problem of harm. (I eventually came
to believe that our basic moral obli-

gation to avoid causing harm to other
people should be extended to animals.
And since I could not see any justi-
fication for our benefiting from harm
caused other humans, I inferred that
it would likewise be wrong for us to
benefit from the suffering of animals.)

As a result of my letter, I received a
large amount of media attention, much
of it unwanted. Although being a pub-
lic figure of sorts is appealing to one’s
vanity, I would have preferred privacy
to work through this personal and phi-
losophical shift. I particularly feared
being misrepresented or being put on
display as “the vivisectors’ apologist
who recanted" (a concern that proved
not unwarranted).

Now that a few months have passed,
I am beginning to get some much
needed perspective on what I’ve been
going through, and my initial feelings
of unreality and self-estrangement have
given way to those of acceptance and
eagnerness to explore fresh conceptual
and personal territory. As I look back,
I am reminded of Jean-Paul Sartre’s
notion of radical conversion, which I
take to be the ever-present human
ability to affirm our inner freedom
and totally change the direction of our
lives. It’s too early to say whether .I'
will continue to follow this path. But I
find no difficulty in identifying with
Sartre’s description in Being and Noth-
ingness of “a new project which rises
on [the] ruins [of the old] and which is
as yet only a sketch, where humilia-
tion, anguish, joy, and hope are blended,
where we let go in order to seize and
seize in order to let go. . .

My new project, so far as I can
describe it, is to try to live through the
implications of a biocentric viewpoint,
philosophically, personally, and in my
professional life as an educator. This
viewpoint sees our species as merely
one among many, and as a relative
latecomer in the scheme of things.
Other animals are just as biologically
and behaviorally unique, have equal
intrinsic value and equally legitimate
needs. Biocentrism also holds that the

interests of other forms of life and of
i the biosphere as a whole should be
taken into account when contemplat-

l
l
l
l
l

: ing how we will live. This will require

that we develop a personal philosophy

' of respect and cooperation with other

life forms and some satisfactory way

to resolve the conflicts that arise:

between their interests and ours.

Yet the question of whether we can:
truly escz‘ipe our anthropocentric pre-i
dicament remains. I am not at all cer~'_
tain that human beings could ever live 5

in ways that avoid causing considera-
ble harm to the environment and to
other animals. Although it may be
wrong to harm other living things and
to benefit from doing so, we are a part
of nature and our will to survive seems
to require this. We may simply have to
accept responsibility for harming other
organisms and their habitats, while

One- Often-her: rsterms .
likéfol‘ajectlve dismter
esteddlspassmn ate
and _

 

 

we try. to minimize the damage we
cause. With respect to animal experi-
mentation, stopping or severely limit-
ing this kind of research would, in the
short term, harm many who would
otherwise benefit from the results.
Yet we cannot be fully humane and
honor our commitment to minimizing
the harm we cause other sentient be-
ings unless we adopt as a long-term
goal the abolition of animal experi-
ments. I now believe that this should
be a goal we should try to realize in
the next fifty to one hundred years,
and I will argue for it whenever I have
the opportunity.

Our moral dilemmas about animals,
as some have pointed out, may be even
more difficult than those concerning
our fellow humans. When we cross
the species boundary, the moral terrio
tory becomes unfamiliar, and the con-
cepts we need to chart it are only just
beginning to evolve. There are no hard
and fast answers here. As with per-
sonal change, we are sailing unknown
seas with very imperfect tools for nav-
igation. M

 

 

 

 

 

l

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

CRYSTAL
&
GEMSTONE
PENDAN TS

(SHOWN ACTUAL SIZE)

Handmade in Sterling
Silver, these pendants are
made from the finest
Brazilian quartz and ac-
cented with a high quality
gemstone. Each piece has
been individually crafted to
achieve the highest vibra-
tion and beauty. Indicate
style and include $2.00
ship/handling. (Texas resi—
dents add 8% sales tax.)

The Unexpected
Box 190961
Dallas TX 75219

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

JANUARY/FEBRUARY 1988

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

Tuesday

 

, 1387

Navember. 10

”fr—=5.

_._____ﬁ

”mmmmaﬂmg.ﬂgmgm

.35.. -

E“

E5

 

E: ,____ __

  . g __M___m_~__ﬂ,m

a

Fish and Wisdiife . Semee

 

 

Mammais and Birds to the United States

szmah7e"'éﬁd Heam‘aim Transport of Wild
Fina! Findings and Bake

t 0‘? the

59 cmpan 14

“_.__.___.__.

an“

E

a:

 




“4... .

if

.. -.
:11.-

;.?~£?e1‘n;f‘zfrr*

Zeﬁff’éztiiﬁiiil

15.3
911- -, .

'4 < I “4. Y 353'14“ rug 1, :1 1‘ m:
1 am aswaucumgl'u;
,1 1' .1: . ’ ‘ .

"' I ‘ It ;. - . .

._' .1, ,. _. ,1 ,Z». v. 4 .2 1 .

13274

Federal Register / Vol. 52, No. 217 /

Tuesday, November 19, 1987 / Rules and Regulations

 

DEPARTMENT OF THE tti‘i‘ERtOR
Fish and Wildlife Service
50 CFR Part 14

Humane and Healthful Transport of
Wild Mammals and Birds to the United ‘

States

AGENCY: Fish and Wildlife Service,
Interior. '

ACTION: Final findings and rule

 

SUMMARY: This rule establishes
regulations pertaining to the humane
and healthful transport of wild
mammals andbirds to the United States.
These regulations enable the Secretary
of the Interior to meet responsibilities
delegated by the Lacey Act
Amendments of 1981 (Pub. L. 97—89, 95
Stat. 1073). Rules covering humane and
healthful transport of ﬁsh, reptiles; .
amphibians, mollusks, crustaceans,-
arthropods, coelenterates, and other .
invertebrates included in the Lacey Act
will be promulgated at a later date.
EFFECTIVE DATE: February 8, 1988. -

FOR FURTHER lNFORMATlON CONTACT:
Dr. Richard L. Iachowski, Acting Chief.
Federal Wildlife Permit Office, US Fish
and Wildlife Service, 1000 North Glebe
Road, Room 620, Arlington, Virginia
22201, telephone (703) 235—1937.
SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: On a

November 16,1981. the President signed I

into law the Lacey Act Amendments of
1931 [Pub L 9-7—79, 95 Stat. 1073}
Section 9 of those amendments assigned
authority for promulgating regulatory
requirements for the humane and

healthful tranSport of wild animals and -

birds to the Secretary of the Interior In.
light of the importance of this mandate
and the complexity of tailoring specific .

regulations to the needsof a major part .~

of the animal kingdom, the United States

Fish and Wildlife Service (hereinafter;

the Service) sought to maximize public

involvement 1n the drafting process. “ “
On February 28,1982, the Service

published in the Federal Register {47 FR

8386) a notice announcing a public

meeting to be held on March 28 1982, in .

Washington, DC, to receive information
and comments regarding the

- development of regulations aimed at

. _ satisfying this responsibility. The ' ,
meeting was attended by approximately

A 31 individuals representing the zoo

' community persons engaged in the ; _

shipping and carrying of live animals. .. ‘ ;

l '5 organizations concerned with the .

humane treatment of wild animals and ‘5

“ several concerned Federal agencies”. :1;-

.;j,g ' involved in the international shipment of

,3" pubnsneu in the Federal Register 147 FR

:27 28432} a notice of intent which g

on Iune 30,1982, the Service

" do not have the force of law.

“ The International Air Transport: , ;,
Association (IATA) has developed .

, guidelines for member airlines tofollow;

summarized the issues raised and
discussed at the March 28, 1982, public
meeting and gave notice to all interested
persons that comments and proposals _
for regulations must be received on or

before July 31, 1982, in order to be ‘

assured consideration. . _. . . ,
In general, comments from ,
representatives of humane organizations.
stressed the need for stringent 1 .
regulations to ensure the humane and.

I healthful transport to the United States

ofwild animals and birds. Comments .
from carriers indicated that the present
“Live Animals Regulations" of the
International Air Transport Association
(IATA) were adequate and that there
was no need for further regulation.
Representatives of zoological parks. the
pet industry, and other importers
indicated their concern over the possible
effects of regulation on the shipment of .
such animals and stressed the need for
suchregulations to be ﬂexible and not
cause the carriers to discontinue the
shipment of live animals.

While transport of some wildlife in
the United States is subject to

' regulations pertaining to humane

procedures under the Animal Welfare ..
Act (AWA) administered by the US
Department of Agriculture (for mammals
in interstate commerce), the humane and
healthful transport of wild mammals

and birds into the United States has not

been comprehensively regulated.

- Development of transport norms has
largely been undertaken by

international groups whose
recommendations are advisory only and

in transporting-animals. Parties to the-is?»

Convention on Internatibnal Trade in

Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and
Flora (CITES) have also developed »
guidelines similar to the IATA ” "

guidelines applicable to the shipment of vi

wild animals. Since many importers,
carriers. and shippers are familiar with

provisions of the AWA governing the 5‘

humane transport of mammals, the
“Guidelines for Transport and 3.; 5
Preparation for Shipment of Live Wild

Animals and Plants” developed by the.ffa§€..-:4EL‘-E{F'
j " . , concern about who would be ultimately ‘.
Animals Regulations" the Service used L, I, "hable for non-compliance Wllh these
“eregulations and suggested that a United
States importer could be criminally
:jconvicted without a court trial. The ”$711“: a
;__Service takes the position that because
i the United States importer is r esponsible

Parties of CITES and IATA’ 8 “Live

those three documents as a basis frdm

‘ which to develop these regulations. By

integrating the three systems now 111. .
effect, the Service hopes to satisfy the

‘ intent of Congress with regard tow

humane and healthful shipment. as; we
as minimize the impact on persons.-

j wildlife to the United States. For. none

human pnmates, the Semce relied on

the “Interagency Primate Steering
Committee Guidelines" developed by
the United States National Institutes of
Health sponsored Interagency Primate
Steering Committee. That committee. *v'
composed of an inter-agency group of ..
scientists, concerns itself with matters
related to the maintenance in captivity '
of non- -human primates

On December 4 1985, the Service

7 published proposed rules in the Federal
”Register (50 FR 49709-49736) to

implement the Department of Interior' 8
responsibilities under the Lacey Act
Amendments of 1981 governing the ,
humane and healthful transport of wild
animals to the United States. That
proposal provided a 60-day period for
receiving written comments. The
comment period expired on February 3,
1986. That proposal with appropriate
modification, is. hereby, adopted as a
final rule.

Comments and Information Received

Comments on the proposed rules were
received from 46 interested persons and
organizations. Specifically, written
comments were received from 12
individuals. 8 pet industry ,
representative. 5 mammal or bird
breeders, 4 government agencies. 4 '
shippers, 4 international environmental

‘ agencies, 4 2008 or aquaria. 3 importers.

1 national environmental agency, and 1
veterinarian.

_ Comments Pertaining to Definitions

'. Commentors requested that the ‘

. following terms be defined: Handle.~
‘ . wild, terrestrial mammals, scheduled

departure time, unhealthy conditions.
normal rigors of transportation, do net

f tip, professionally- accepted standards.

holding area, shall be kept clean, and

psychological trauma. Based upon these '

comments. definitions of these terms are

‘ included 111 § 14.102 of this subpart. The

term “wild" has already been definedin

1'7 50CFR10.12 and those further .
'- definition is unnecessary Additionally,
. “non- compatible" :3 defined. ' .

Comments Pertaining to Enforcement of
" {the Regulations ‘1 ‘

Several commentors expressed

{at initiating the import of the live wild; 5g
mammal or bird from the country ofi” '3

.drigin to the United States. the importeiiif I?” 7;; ,1 7 '1,
27m “3* assume the reSpOnsibility of , 1 .
ssunns the human and healthful

’W"" "J_1.

 




Federal Register / Vol. 52, No. 217 / Tuesday, November 10, 1987 / Rules and Regulations

43275

 

transport of the specimen to this
country. This position does not limit the
chility of any other party involved in
the shipment process. These regulations
do not and cannot modify constitutional
protections of due process of the law '
and the right to a trial.. “ ‘ ~" " ‘
Concern was expressed by several ‘
'commentors that these regulations may
not be enforceable by the United States
in' a foreign country. This concern is
misplaced since the Lacey Act
authorizes enforcement within the ,

jurisdiction of the United States. F urther,

. the Service intends to enforce these
regulations to the fullest extent of the
law. One commentor suggested that the
shipper be required to sign a statement
of compliance with these regulations.
The Service believesthat requiring a
signed statement by the shipper is.
unnecessary since she/he falls within
the scope of this rule and thus it is
presumed that she/ he will comply with
the regulations. Carriers bringing cargo
into this country are subject to United
States law relating to the cargo carried.
This means that even if the care and
treatment afforded live cargo is less
than adequate prior to delivery to the
carrier, once accepted, the carrier must
comply with these regulations until
deliveryin the United States is
complete. Additionally, when the
shipper provides an attendant to '
accompany a live specimen, the carrier
is not relieved of its duty to provide for
the humane and healthful transport of ,
the live specimen. Several comments

‘ concerned a perceived inability of . _ .
carriers to properly handle live Cargo; to
provide appropriate envirOnmental
conditions during transit; or to have
appropriate tenninal facilities. One '
commenter referred to a 1985 IATA
report stating that it is impossible to
guarantee efﬁcienCy of aircraft
ventilation systems. Voluntary-

' international guidelines for humane ‘

tranSport have been in force for some 1.‘

time and it appears that manycarriers _
may already be in cempliance with VVj
these guidelines. The purpose of this

regulation, which is identical-to that of?” ‘

the'iinternational guidelines, is to.--

Providefor the humane and healthfuliff ,,

' . A into tthnited Statés§~A83l1°htthe”‘

Serrieehelieves that compliance win:

the requirements. contained: within this? ,

who has undertaken; the task of '

rule Will not cause hardship to a carrier. .

.‘v

' obtain inforfmatidn regarding

i 3 Further; seems basi-snoéﬁty’. Lie;

'- COerlié’ricsAtxmporttheSemcecan
_f_;€; examine. the,Carriargyany1enuirgnmgmal;3.1

records maintained by the carrier, and
the delivered live cargo.

As suggested by one commentor, the
Service can refuse to issue both import
permits for mammals and birds _
requiring such documentation and
Federal import/ export licenses
necessary to conduct such commerce to
importers who violate these regulations.
A United States importer, faced with the-
potential loss of importing privileges, ~

will most likely not employ the services .

of suppliers, handlers or carriers who
cannot or will not comply with these
regulations and deliver live cargo in a
humane and healthful manner. '

Several comments concerned the
realities that, due to the vagaries of
weather, mechanical failure, or other
unforeseen situations, no carrier can
guarantee against unnecessary delays or
that the most expeditious route is used.
The Service realizes that such
occurrences do happen and cannot be
entirely avoided, however, it is
recognized that these delays have as a
consequence increased stress on the live
cargo being transported. Therefore, it is
important that delays and lay-overs be
kept to a minimum. The carrier remains
responsible for the care and welfare of
the live cargo being transported should
planned or unplanned delays or stop.
overs occur. Further, it is recommended
that the most direct route be utilized
during transport in order to reduce
stress on live specimens. .

Comments Received Concerning ’

Primary Enclosures

Numerous commentors expressed '
concern that interior space 7 '
specifications for primary enclosures
were questionable and could increase
shipping costs; that ventilation

' requirements were improper, that sash

shipping crate should be equipped with
a removable lower tray to collect waste;

that shipping crates could be made from ‘

materials that had been treated or

manufactured with substances that may 7

prove harmful to the live contents; and '
that it would be nearly impossible to '
enforce shipping crate requirements

where the shipper was unable to obtain ; - p y W p ,
" ’ ‘ g extend beyond the primary enclosure.j
IATA guidelines permit cetacean dorsal , . . ,
ﬁesta extend uaaard throushthe open... .

tbp‘of. specially ,eonetrﬁcted, primary. " ’

~ I

suitable construction‘materials.,_ _ f :

In developing the proposed

' regulations, the Service relied upon;_ﬁj . ..
~ , existing mammal and bird shipping. . '
ventilation,’and interior s‘paCeff‘,
' requirement“! the InternatiOnal Air. "5-:

Transport Association (LRTA), the, _ T
canvention on International Tra de in“ f, j _' ,
Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and 1;; (q ,. g _ _
' ' ‘ ‘ stretcher-561% “an?! the" aides-efthe

’I’encléﬁﬁrﬁﬂ? Settles“’afteriselicitia

Flora (CW-ES). the regulations fore}. ..1:..-_

interstate movement ormammau ponder}?
» " ' the Animalwelfare Act (AWN. 'andhtheiiifﬁf

_ . non—hw‘primﬂte astigmatism};
satisﬁes: sitter .mterassncrfaeate

(Burrowing

Stee ing Committee {lPSC} of the
National institutes off-{saith

Addressing the comments more.
speciﬁcally, the Service modiﬁed its
proposal and now requires a removable
lower tray or a solid, leak-proof primary
enclosure bottom with. suitable litter to
collect and hold waste matter.

- It is appropriateto consider carefully
what materials are used to construct a
live mammal or bird shipping enclosure
because the contained specimen may
chew on or into the enclosure and be »
adversely affected by hazardous
materials on or in the construction

l- material. The Service modified

appropriate passages to reﬂect this
concern. .
In consideration of the rather general

' requirements of shipping enclosure -

construction materials in this subpart
and in the IATA guidelines, it is difficult
to foresee that a commercial shipper of
live wild mammals or birds would not
have acCess to appropriate materials. In
the rare and unlikely instance where
suitable and non-hazardous material is
not available, logic dictates that the
shipment should not occur. ..
Other comments concerned size of
spacer bars, marking of enclosures, and
size of lettering on enclosures. Spacer
bar criteria have been, adopted from.
existing CITES guidelines. Letter size
will be maintained at 2.5 cm [1 inch} as
this size best fits the space'provided by
standard construction materials and is '
easily read at normal cargo hand-Zing '
distances. The term “wild mammal" or
“wild bird” was discussed as ' ‘ .. 7 ” :
emotionally disturbing to airline . .
personnel and cargo handlers, pessibly'
resulting in a lack of attention to such.
live cargo. The‘Service recognizes this
problem and will require enclosures of
such cargo to be labeled "liv'eimammal’
or “live bird". This is justified'as such ,
live cargo should receive the same. .
humane and healthful treatment, _
whether,“wild” or domesticated." ’ " ,
several commentors mentioned that
LATA'guidelines allow cetacean -
pectoral flippers and dorsal fins to

t

» -' fi'L .enelosurés dressed. to Protect the .51 - .
fumammal. However, pectoralflipperssre »_.

-. - .L'

requiredltobé" extended through a -: _.

Slingi,ifnsed.1there semi; -.~ ’

. , a

least azjsfinchfclearance between th

mformationfrommamne mammal

r

aumeriﬁééiﬁiaieaissmares-finer?

clearancebetweenanybodypartand

 




>J

51H"

reactions wildlrfeof Accord: ., . '

men..rawwas'ifrsniﬁiisﬁisttzes‘tétléahoa’e"111”ferrite-1w" f «"A

c
a .3, _,. «‘1.
r, .

W1

432?5

no.“ .. -_ s.-......1-..-.‘._.—.

federal Register f Vol. 5‘2,

No.21? I 3:::

 

 

3183'. November 10... 1987?; Rides and 33921133110119.

 

lea ties of the primary enciosnre is
app ropri etc;

In response to a question consenting
live ghaffe transport: live giraffe are to
be transported completely contained or
in a primary enclosure- the height of
which shall extend abowe the shouiders
The top of. such enclosure is to be-

padded to protect the amimal’ s neck and '

shoulders. In addition. padding should.
beplaced so as to protect the animal 32
head whether enclosed. or not; , ‘

Comments Concerning Temperature
Requirement for Animals in Transit

Comments ranged from concurrence

with the proposed regulations to claims .

that the suggested temperatures were
too high. too low. or. that recommended
ex posure times to certain temperatures. .
were excessive. As explained' in the

p1 seeding section. the Service relied.-
upon existing and accepted animal
transportation guidelines :11 developing ,
the proposed regulations. .

The Service does consider these
temperature requirements necessary
The period between the time the live
cargo is accepted at the Carrier' 8

terminal until its physical arrival at the .
United States Quarantine Station or

delivery to the United States importer
represents the most stress£113 portion of;

the specimen 3 travel. As such.req11inng .

human manipulation of the specimen 8
environment during this period 18
appropriate to assist in reduchig live
specimen stress or death: '

One commenter suggested. that the
carrier be required to place recurring
thennomet‘ers m the cargo area with the
mammals or birds to allow the , f ‘
veriﬁcation of travel temperature
conditions. Additionally it was ._
suggested that carriersinstall an alarm ,
system to notify crew members or ‘

conditions which exceed the paramters '
2 listed within the regulations for the

adequate provision of healthful and;
humane transit. The Service believes ‘
that such recording and alarm system
should be installed at the option of the
carrier. Subsection :41 1‘32 prohibits

carriers from allowing wiid mannhals or I f-ﬂ

birds to be harmed or stressed sy ._
improper air. temperature pressure or

lair: out in 1?: use ru as for temperature.
press-.1re. and mutilation were met.

As a result of comments received
regarding this issue, the Service finds
that protection from cold requires more
than placing a cover over live cargo
exposed to temperatures below that _
required for the. spades. The ﬁnal rule;
therefore. reflects this need by requiring

’ covering and heating the Wild mammal

or bird holding area or transp0,rting
device moving live cargo between the
primary carrieds) and the mammal or
bird holding facility;

Concerns for instructions Dealing with
Food Water. Medzcal and General Care
While in Transit-

,Commentors recommended that
animal care instructions be posted in air
terminals. be semi-cry fastened to ,
enclosures and shouid provide shorter
feeding and watering schedules: that the
shipper. not the carrier be responsible
for animal care: and that medical
treatment be given only by appropriate
persons

The purpose of requiring securely
fastened animal- care instructions to the
mammal or bird‘s prnnary enclosure is
to afford instantly available information
to the person attending the live cargo. ,
Snob- infermation posted' :1: the carrier 8
terminal is too far removed to be or
assistance An: an emergency situation.

The shipper must supply written
dire'ctibns canfomzing to professionally-

accepted. standards of: care regarding-

food. water, and other relevant .
requirements of the live specimen. For
mammais er birds which require special
or continual physical or me edtcal care.
the shipper shall proeide a qualified

individual to travel with the sh1pment If-

the mammai‘ orbird is shipped
unattended the carrier shall obtain _
proper emergency medrcat care for the
live specimen as soon as passable after
the need arises. ‘ § :- .

Comments Pertaining to Transport oE
Pregnant Mommie- and Mothers with
Nursing Young: , . .

Gmmentors germ-oily agreed that
roommate 1n the third trimester of
pregnancy shoui'd not be transported
and were opposed to shipping nursmg

ventilatibm At the same time the Semce mothers or unwashed young. The

_ recognizes. and many commenter:

stressed. the need crossﬁre for

I ‘ certainty of standards and rot- profs-choc

against unforeseeeble events and

.- “'lrecording dcvrces ihSt" ‘ ' " «.,
.._.~ these parameters. thaf‘the standards _ _;

e ‘ f ‘ [mt-8mg sxjuffg 216$ be a. V

Service agrees with the commentors
appraisal of the danger or shippinglast
tr1mesterpregnant mammals and “‘ ijZ'I
changed the regniations to we that?
and: manmrals and nmthers with “

.I’éSWtT
' in a he thfnlgnd “
"T _ emergency removal ofa mammafta had

not always possible to determine its
female mammal is progress the degree
to which a p egnancy has progressed
nor is it possible or safe to subiect all
female mammals to pregnancy testing.

. The Service furthermore agrees that
an. unweaned. infantshould not be --A‘_',‘[ . A

transported for necessary medical

treatment without its. mother unléss .
accompanied by an attendant who will:
provide constant care for the animal.

Comments Concerning Food and Water
Troughs

Concerns were presented that the». * 2
proposed trough design was dangerous.
and. would allow animals to escape; that
water in a shipping enclosmewoald- .
prove harmful to birds; and that some ‘
animals obtain their water from: food

_ and do not require ac cess to a separate

water supply.
These regulations require a food and

A water trough be securely attached {not

necessariiy “permanen ﬂy") to the
bottom of the primary enclosure in such
a way that it can be titled fromthe
outside of the enclosure. Such an“. .
arrangement is safer to the contained
mammal or bird and easier for the" (t .
carrier to maintain. The ﬁreplace}: A
containers are immediately ready for

, food and water to be presented to live

cargo during shipping. at transfer points.
during delays in transit. or at the end of
travel in accOrdance with the shipper ’3
written instructions...

It is roomimended that a wooden
plate with small. holes beﬂoated on the
surface of the water troughm keep
water available. but sale for birds which
tend to dehydrate during transport. _.

The Service understands the! some"
mammals and birds oh: sin badge
moisture from food hence. the fitted rule

A states that appropriate food or Water. be

provided as dnected in mating by the
shipper; . ,, ,-,_ . :2”
Comments Concerning Emergency
Removal of Live 'iFargo from the Pruner:
Com eyanoe ,1: .-.

Several respondents believe that the

, carrier. should not be rationed to room ve
hen-human primates or dangerouf,‘ '

mammals am: the primary conve «dire =
in the advent ofan emergency Once the
cameramepts live cargo it assumes the ,.
lity of transporting that cargo

‘ na. manner. E the

. . ' fmmthc permsryconvezance is: required

to fulﬁll the pumpsdmd intent“ oithl‘ﬁ . . 1‘

W:....,.ba*;m lit”? 'Bﬁaifdo " of x .

 




Federal Register I Vol 52. No. 217 l" Tuesday, November 10. 1987 1' Rules. and Regulations 43277-

 

Comments on Compatible Grouping of
Specimens for Travel

Commenters pointed out a need to:
determine which species should travel:
, individually andwhich ingroups, egg,- ' ‘

compatible juvenile gm pings. This final

" _ rule adopts criteria fmm'alread? » .

existing and accepted rules and 1
came momma cm ~

.anarpsc.

o

Comments com. " 'ing' iizéadi‘n' 1 game;
C'argoon the Pn'mary Conveyance , 3 9
' Concern was expressed that live 1
cargo not be deliberately stored “out of

sight." that ﬁve cargo be ﬁrst-loaded: and .
last unloaded; and that such cargo not .

be stored on the runway before waiter
loading. ‘ ‘ ' - =,_ .
' Unless precluded by normal and
unalterable carrier procedures, the 1
actual loading of live cargo by a carrier
should be left. to an agreement between

consequence valid health certification
should be available- Health examination
schedules and holding periods prior to
transit are adopted from existing and q ;
accepted regulations and guidelines.f.
These regulations require that the _. ~ ;
veterinarian examining the. animals be
authorized by the. government of the.
country of export. It is. incumbent upon:
the exporting government to: evaluate
the qualifications. of the examining"
veterinarian. Veterinary officialsreport

‘ that a. field‘- examination can effectively

produce a certiﬁcation of apparent {
health and that quarantine at import
provides opportunities to more fully
examine the mammal or bird“ for hidden
disease or illness. As stated previously,
the Service believes that less than
adequate care of live cargo and.
improper or unreliable healtls » -
certiﬁcation will: cause UnitedStates ‘
importers to find and? use individuals _

“T..';:::nrm:'nts Concerning NectarFeeding
Birds in Transit 2

Commentors explained that g ._ _
hummingbirds travel better when not _ .
caged, but isolated. wrapped. hand-
carried, and hand-fed. The Service was
also informed that when traveling caged,
these birds travel safer when fed with a
ﬂoor nectar feeding;- bottl’e than with the
more. familiar hanging bottle feeder. The
Service recognizes that there is more '
than one way to transport hummingbirds
andacltnewledges this in the final _
regulations. . . . 1

General Comments Concerning: the 11

2 Regulations.

Several. competitors mentioned that
openings in conveyances usually expose
live cargo to heat, exhaust. and gases
and questioned the purpose of this rule's

' prohibition to such practice. The

' purpose; at these regulations is to protect
live cargo from such exposure. . ‘ ‘
It was recommended that required

written: material be in the. language of

the shippper and the carrier; “First on . 2:?“
and last off” for live cargo to 2 7 ' t;
recommended only when the cargo is to 1.

who can and will satisfy these
regulations. The Service modiﬁed the
final rule to reflect that sick or injured

be off—loaded at thelaststop. This will
limit the namher‘of times "the live cargo
1 will be stressed by handling and ' y

. environmiental changes. The ﬁnal rule
requires that the carrier not allow live
cargo to be left aittingontlie runway: or

dock for extended periods of time as this ~

is Stressfid for the contained specimens.
Furthe‘rmOre. it is regui'red that live. '
cargo be inspected during- transit. ifat. all.
possible, maintained in a prepared bird
or mammal holding area. until loading
time, and returned to a mammal or bird i
holding area for any lengthy waiting. .1
. carrier occurs , ; .. .. .
We Concerningﬂeakﬁ 1 :' ‘. '
: 'Commentors'suggestedthat valid *
health certifiCat‘ionjwili‘ not be available
from all foreign counties: that the. ‘ '

rériéd wh'il‘e‘reloadiﬁw.Qhanss of, . >

’ ‘- ”quire" Veterinary aspiration times ~
were too-tong or too Short mm m
transportatimn-ihat a health certiﬁcate. —-

s , .

is valid Only anemones“ is"

-; competent with the species inquestion-f .' ~
‘ that “appearstobeheai‘thy” is‘nota‘j L.‘

suffi'ctenr health statement,- that a}; 2

. _ f certiﬁcate of Heal’tlrdoesnot prove‘thefi'f"
. amine? wai- imrértrma’tﬁtained‘ prior to
* shipment; that‘animals in tire sit'may be

mammals or birds be afforded: the

‘ 0119011“le 20$ Proper. medical care in '

the United States.

Comments Concerning the 5-Hour Pro. _
LoadingArrivaI. at the Primary! Carrier: f

Commentors explained that there

- should be come flexibility in‘ arrival time

due to adverse road conditions. _ , ..
breakdown of equipment, and because

forcign countries are involved: that some 1

animals might benefit from additional

testingﬁme before‘beingl'oaded'onm i " "

the primary carrier; that some carrifrrs‘ -
require cargo tube on hand morethan 6
hours before departure; and that transit"
schedule changes on irrierxixediats '
carriers may not pernm the live cargo to
arrive exactly 6 hours. prior to the next"
transit time. . ' f . ._ ‘ 7

r The: Service recognizes the legitimacy"
of these concerns and modified the ‘final

ruleto require. arrival of live cargo no " '
less than ﬁner more dam mhmrs prior g . 1
1?“ * ”" ridmﬁnnrommm . steam; mm “

tom'amspor’s‘g :5. .2 .1

Comments Concerning Socially (if. ”’1‘ .
Pﬁmaoﬁndowms " ,

, . :2 4.:-

'_1. I Concern‘ was expressed that primary 1.
. enclosures. “locked" with a padlock an_d:2_{i
if beffgf’ﬁ-ééfed hrlhited States -.~ key-would create problems with keys ’

August.18.11.987.243» ,.

the country of origin and in English. The
Service concurs that acceptable health.
certification in a foreign language is
permissible if accompaniedby an ‘
English translation. Furthermore. English _ »

is both the airline industry’s connect;

language endanofficial CITES . 1
language; -. y- p .; -; W 2

In addition to the changes discussed. .
above; certain other noneubstantive . . '.
changes have been. made in the final; ;
rule. forjedit'oria‘l purposes ' .
Effective Date-of; theRulezxs: .1} ' x .
. This, final rule Will? bemme‘effective- . ‘
90 days from publication in order‘tow, '
allow diemfonnation‘ to be V ;
disseminated thrOughotit the Wed 1 ide ; ~
industry and to allow affected parties" '
time to prepare theiroperations to .. - ,
comply with these'regulationsg ' "

neremagssabrisemecmormeunn _

prepared with-regard to this cation-endi- 2 '
finalizedon Augustllﬁ, 19,83. A Finding:w

-- of No Signiﬁcant ‘MW‘Wﬂgsieéséﬁani‘a-g f ._ ,

-.}

‘ .. .. rule Concerning the hu-fna'ne‘andéf-I '1 ' '
and ready; access; to Mime-cargo ‘ 3

.:‘- ’vﬁ;

healthﬁiﬂmnsport ofw-ﬂ'd mammgaisfji: i} jj-i g'
Bedtime ms Erastusaessrot a ;~.;
; maié‘ﬁdecdoﬁ‘iﬁﬁi wastage? " " ‘ ' '

. .quafam-fhsﬁﬁ them‘ll‘yoforfgm . . . . , ..
and thatanexempt‘roninhealdrl 939‘ 5°53“ emergenc’ yﬁfhe 59‘; .g'Vlﬁelshm'
'51.;cértiﬁcai‘l’oﬁ‘ sharia senses or srckor imitativ- farmssittrrt‘amate;frzbsé w .

*' mammafsdrbirdi Welirsrb.irif securely fastened Wi~th’m’*anlméi- signiﬁcantly._affec'tthe;qualitr‘of.the , _*
the. Hare-er j amﬁrmmmeﬁaf mama deveewmawm hmnenmmenwmmemmms
- care the mmmtww barman be fﬁwmzczicctonhmmi - ’ .
1 The Service" believesfhai all’countrfes readily opened by tli'e’c‘an'ierof Environmentalpolicy Adi and; therefore. 1”
.- ‘::,=.._;;'5E‘:“'orthemed smoottcemedwi‘dl public; attendant. Final regulations stairs: .-2‘..rpiteparation'ofan'EnvironmeI“itallmfiac‘ti
2 ”9.3.7; health anddisease prevention and as.‘a‘i‘éigy worded to express thyisreijiszéiﬁéng,‘;;3.‘jf*-. . ., ,

,.
.. ,. 2r '
)- u.',-%_£.._‘ 1‘;

" 2* 5:42;: ’2‘:- ’2-

l .

Statemém is “'01 te‘quiredi‘i T 2, ,.=.;. -

 




43278 Federal Register / Vol. 52, No. 217 -/ Tuesday. November 10. 1987 / Rules and Regulations

 

Regulatory Flexibility Act

The Service determines that this is not
a major rule under Executive Order
12291 and does not have a signiﬁcant
economic effect on a substantial number

of small entities under the Regulatory . :

Flexibility Act (5 USC. 601). The total?
value of imported wildlife in recent
years has been less than forty million
dollars and the bulk of these _
importations already comply with
voluntary standards which parallel
those of this rule. Cost increases to the
remaining shippers will likely be offset
by higher survival rates by their cargo.
Since all importers, foreign and . .
domestic. will be equally affected. there
should be no measureable effect on the
ability of dometic enterprises to
compete. -

[Paperwork ReduCtion

This ﬁnal rule does not contain any
information collection or record keeping
requirements as deﬁned by the
Paperwork Reduction Act of 1930 (44
. U. S. C. 3504(h)I).

Authors ,

The authors of this ﬁnal rule are Mr. S '

Ronald Singer and Dr. )0 Anne L. Garbe.
. Federal Wildlife Permit Ofﬁce. United

States Fish and Wildlife Service. ’
. Department of the Interior. Washington.

' ‘ , I‘DC 20240 (703/235—2418) Dr. Harvey A. . .

‘ Kryder was detailed to the Federal
Wildlife Permit Ofﬁce. from Veterinary

Services. Animal and Plant Health

Inspection Service, United States
Department of Agriculture to assist in

-, _- drafting the proposed rule.

- List of Subjectsin 50 CFR Part 14 h ‘

Exports, Fish. IrnpOrts, Labeling. .
Reporting requirements. Transportation '
. and wildlife. , , - . -

Regulanons Promulgation . l

: Accordingly. Part 14 of Chapter 1 of
., Title 50 of the Code Of Federal '

4 * Regulations is hereby amended to read

' ' as follows' ' , ,..I

PART 14—{AMENDED}

1. The authority citation for Part 14 is

revised to read as follows:

Authority: 18 u. s. c. 112 16 u s. c. 3371—33711
16 U. S.C. 1538(dHf) 1540“): 18 U S C 1382:

18USQ704712.31USC.483(8)16US.C. ‘

' . 852(c).

2 Add new Subparti cons1st1ng of
§§ 14.101 through 14 204. to read as
follows. ,. . . ,

Subpart J—Standards tor the Humane and
Healthful Transport of Wild ‘3 sunsets and
Birds to the United States I

Sec. .

14.101
14.102
14.103
14.104

Purposes.

Definitions.

Prohibitions. ’ .

Certificates.

14.105 Consignment to carrier for transport.

14.106 Primary enclosures used to transport
.. live wild mammals or birds.

. 14.107 Primary conveyance (motor vehicle. I

rail. air. and water).
14.108 Food and water requirements
14.109 Care in transit. .
14.110 Terminal. facilities.
14.111 Handling. .
14.112 Harm to wild mammals or birds
during shipment.

Speciﬁcations for the Humans and Healthful
Transport of Non-Human Primates

14.121 Consignment to carrier for transport.

14 122 Primary enclosures used to transport
live non-human primates. ~ -

14.129 Food and water requirements. .

14.124 Care 1n transit.

14.125 Handling.

Specifications for the Humans and Healthful
Transport of Marine Mammals (Cetaceans.
Sirenians. Sea Otters. Pinnipeds. and Polar
Bears) '

14.131 consignment to carrier for transport.

14.132 Primary enclosures used to transport

live marine mammals.

14.133 Food and Water requirements.

14.134 Care in transit. "
14.135 Handling.

3 Speciﬁcations for the Humans and Healthful

Transport of Elephants and Ungulates

14 141 Consignment to carrier for transport.
14 .142 Primary enclosures used to transport
_ live elephants and ungulatesp

14.143 Handling..:

Speciﬁcations for the Humans and Healthful
Transport of Terrestrial Mammals (Excluding
Elephants and Ungulates)

14.151 Consignment to carrier for transport.

14.152 Primary enclosures used to transport
live terrestrial mammals. I .I.

14.153 Handling.

- Speciﬁcations for the Humans and Healthful
Transport of Sloths. Bats. and Flying Lemon

(Cynocephalidae)

14.171 Consignment to carrier for transport.

14.172 Primary enclosures used to transport
live sloths. bats. and flying lemurs '« ~
(CynocephalidaeI) . < '

x.‘

Speciﬁcations for the Humans and Healthful
- Transport of Perchlng Birds including. Bubs? .
Not Limited to. Passerines. Parrots. Hombiils. ' -

Nectar-Feeding Birds.II and Toucans

' I 14. 181 Consignment to carrier for transporLJ-I- ,
114.182 Primary enclosures used to Itransport:'

live perching birds:.
14 183 Terminal fac1l1ties
14 184 Handling

Speciﬁcations for the Humans and Healthful
ransport of Raptorial Birds including. But
Not Limited to. Hawks. Owls. and Vultures '
14 191 Consignment to carrier for transport
14 192 Primary enclosures used to transport '

live raptorial birds. ' ,
14.193 Terminal facilities
14.194 Handling.’ ‘

Specifications for the Humane and Healthful
Transport of Water Birds and All Other Birds
14 201 Consignment to carrier for transport
14 202 Primary enclosures used to transpart

live water birds and all other bI.irdIs
14.203 Terminal facilities.‘
14.204 Handling.

Subpart J—Standards for the Humane
and Healthful Transport ot Wild
Mammals and Birds to the United
States ~

§ 14.101 Purposes.

The purpose of this subpart is to f
prescribe importation requirements
necessary to ensure that live wild
mammals and birds shipped to the
United States arrive alive. healthful, and
un-iniured, and that transportation of
such animals occurs underhumane and '
healthful conditions These eregulations
implement section 9(d) of the Lacey Act
Amendments of 1981.

§ 14.102 Definitions.-
ln addition to the deﬁnitions

contained in Part 10 of this sub chapter *

B and unless the context requires I . '
otherwise. in this subpart ‘ 5

“Ambient air temperature" means thé '- .

temperature of the air surrounding the
wild mammal or bird; ’

"Carrier” means any person operating ,
any airline. railroad. motor carrier. _ ‘
shipping line or other enterprise engaged.
in the business of transporting any wild
mammal or bird for hire. commercial

' purposes. or for exhibition:

“Communicable disease"n1eans any
contagious. infectious. or transmissible
disease of wild mammals or birds:

“Do not tip" means do not eXcessively '

rock or otherwise move from a vertical

. to a slanting posmon. knock over. or

upset;
“Handle means feed. manipulate
crate. shift, transfer. immobilize. »

I restrain, treat or otherwise control the .
movement or act1v1t1es of any. wild .- . 1
.. ’ mammal CF bll‘d - .1 " ' 7" I
14173 Handling. ._F

“Holding area" means a designated
area at or within a terminal facility
which has been specially prepared to

' provide shelter and other requirements . ,I 2'
« of wild mammals or birds being shipped 'I -
to the United States and in which such...
‘ mammals or birds are maintaihed while ,

awaiting embarkation or debarkation. -

5 II Vpriortoduring or followmg such ~' I
,. , shipment Z

 

 




 

 

Federal Register [ Vol. 52.. No; 217 Z TueSdayt November m, 198? 1 Rules and Regulations 43279

"in advanced stages of pregnancy" ‘
means pregnancy has exceeded 66.6? ,
percent of the normal gestation "period”
for the species concerned, the last] f "
ﬁrmer;0i.presnan'cr:-;i;<gi1.1-4.. ‘~ 7‘ .

“Non-Compatible” means not capable
of existing together in-harmony: '- ' ,. ..;

“Non-human primate” means any, 1?
non-human member of the order t

,, Primates? ' l .. t ‘
" .“Normal‘ rigors of transportation” . f

meanslan esta‘blishedlevel‘ or pattern 0f
Weilibeing as affected by the stress of

transportation; "

“Ol‘dworl’d’ primatef' means any non- 7
human primate whose species origin is .
not within the western hemisphere; l

. ”Primary conveyance” means the
instrumemality for the main method of
transportation used: to transport an
animal from origin to destination such
as a motor vehicle, airplane. shipor" \
train: . ‘ ” = " A v"

”Primary enclosure” means. any
structure used to restrict a. mammal or

a bird to a limited amount of space. such
as a cage-room, pom-run.- compartmant.
pool. hutch, or compartment of a cage:

. “Professionally-accepted standards“.

,~ means conformingt‘o a particular level
of performance established— by a body of
qualiﬁed persons of the veterinary

medical profession: A; g _ “
'f‘Psycholog‘ical trauma” means an . ’ 7.
episode» that creates substantial and " ~ '
lasting damage to the behavioral ‘ '
development of an individual; '_ ' _
“Recently given birth" means the »
condition immediately. following birth in
which an animal has-insufﬁcient ‘ '
strength to perform physical activities or ~
physiological functions normal? for that .
ispeciesz‘ 31 5 *' i‘ V
'-1“Saniti‘ze;’:' means remake «physically
‘cl‘oan suite the maximum degree ‘ a '
practical. remove and destrtjyagents '
injurious to the health of wild mammals;
01’ birds: M .,.. -~: gig; it; I f . ‘ ‘ ' ,ez“ '.
“Scheduled deparmre time.” means'5‘j
- the-time listed on afﬁne-table" of, ~ i '
departures and arrivalsor, in the 5'
- absence of such time-table‘s, means the"!
‘ time of departure agreed to by the?
7 persons involved; :. A Irv-"5773f 1]
“Shall be kept clean” means to be .
maintained free from dirt. trash, refuse;
. ‘ excreta, remains from othercargo; andf g
impurities 01' any WP?
L “Shipper?“ means any persomomer‘?‘ .
than, a fcantfert'involved in ffll'e cansport; -

(

of Wild animals toith‘e‘UnitedStatesff‘ j '

_ regardlessbf the purpose-of 557035??? - ..

~ ' ‘transpomfeggireprrmr; immmn

g " intermediate handleror‘fhigfhgrggem;
" mammals other thanmarinemammm‘sﬁ: j

. :"ﬁarfépooﬁfimeéaé roommates:

' Carry or ship by any, rméahsilm‘toﬁeﬁ'ﬁfg»

' pregnarmyisifdetectable‘rusingﬁéﬁiél2mi

or receive for the purpose of movement.
carriage. or shipment; . ‘ ' V
”Transporting device” means any "
interim vehicle or device, other than
human, used to transporter: animal . 5 '-
between the primary conveyanCe and '
the terminal. facility, or'inan‘diarourid . -.
the terminal facility of a carrier or
wi‘thin'a primary Conveyance; ‘
‘ , .”Unhealthy conditions" means an—
environmental or physical situation or 4

' canditio‘n that causes, or‘is conducive in;

poor healtbgoi wild mammals or‘birdsi --
§14.103‘ Prohibitions. ‘ ‘

Unless the requirements of this
subpart are fully satisﬁed, and all other

for any person to transport to the United
States, cause to be transported to the“.
United States, or allow to be transported
.to the United States any live wild ‘

~mammal” or bird. It shall be unlawful for

any person to import. to-transport, cause

or permit to be transported to the United

States any wild mammal or bird underf

.inhumaneor. unhealthful conditions or in ~
-- violation of this Subpart L _. i, -

§ﬂ5104"0enﬁkataoi” ‘ . “
Any‘certiﬁca’te satisfying the ‘7 , #7.:

requirements of the provisions of’this,

subpart that accompany a live animaI'oc

l' . bird’n'ansparteé to 'theUnited' Stateéif-

and written in a fereign language most A
be accompanied. by an English ,
translation. " _ 1 , ~‘ ' ,- ,
§14§105 Consignmenttocarﬁerm
transport..- '- .-' ,,
. No carrier shalt accept any. live: wild: .
mammalorbird for transport-to the . i"
United States that has not? been ' '

subjected to- an examinationby a~ .- I"? ' '
qualified veterinarian authorized by‘thei .
national government of the initial V .

Country from Which the maximal or bird

is being exported. Suchan examination '
must be conducted within'the specific ‘

time limit established by this: ruleprior
to conunencement of transportt'o‘the-S ‘ _
EhﬁtedState‘ s; 5 ‘3 j " ’
3 Ffa) ’Arrexamfnation ofili‘ve Wild? 3"

animals and birds must, be conducted} '-' -’
« within 16 days prior to enemiencemem ,
of transport tome United States. A . j

health certificate, signed by theﬂ I“;
examini'ngveteri'narian, stating that the“

animal has been examhied. ishealthy; ; ‘—
appears to be free of any r:enurmnicahis:~ '

disease and is able to withstand d132,; ‘.
normal rigors: of” transport‘must’5'cf ; ' 1‘3"":

,.~

3;"? .ammpaay “jive mammatbr‘bird;3.~::it‘.*t_

Mamm‘ﬁiﬁié lasttnmesterof

:pr'ofessionallyea‘ccep’eedfs‘tandhr' ’ "fished! ,

nor be? 'aéc‘efp'ted.rgr.:traa‘s,psa-w_the; H

United; State éeértroaeéa’ay '

compartmentsgtransport eage&.¢a‘rft5ggg'_ , - '

accompanied by a certifiCate issued by a
qualiﬁed veterinarian. appointed'by the
country. in which transport begins - .
stating-1 that. the animal has been
examined; thestate oi: pregnancy .
egaluated, gandgthatexzen with the pi.
f»: medical Condition requiring treatmena _
the animal is physically able. to. . . .
withstand. the normal: rigors of , .- . -
’ transportation to the United States.
Nursing mothers withyonng shall: be. ‘
-' transported only if necessary for '

medical treatment-{and then, only with

appropriate veterinary certification. Un-

wea-ned- young shall not: be transported:

to the United. States without its mother.

, . . . . - unless accompanied by: an. animal nurse
legal requirements are not, it is unlawful ‘-

= or attendant and with veterinary
’ certification for travel. - - .

{b} Sick Or injured live wild mammals
or birds should be permitted transport to
the United States ifthe primary purpose
of such~ transport is for needed medical
treatment. Homever.’transp0rt of such a

'iﬁamma'l or bird is dependent upon the;
nature, of the“ sickness or injury and
veterinary Certiﬁcation that the '
specimen in question can withstand the
normal rigors of travel in it's present .
condition. Sick or injured" animal's shall

ibe‘ accompaniedfby an individual i

i‘qual‘ified in the care and? treatment of _
such animals throughout the transpart

{process This individual shall'be in

ipossessibn of or. have ready access to all
medications to be administered during,
the transport. ‘ .7 .

(cl No carrier Shall accept any live

. wild mammal. or bird for transport to. the

- UnitedStates presented? by. the shipper

. less thanﬁhours or more than 10 hours
micr- to the scheduled departureof the -
primary conveyance on which it is. to: be
transported..“~“_zi a ‘ '» " ‘

t {at} gees—roar shalt only accept for-”i r
transportto the United States at live wild
mammal or bird in a primary enclosure"
which» conﬁrms to the requirement for; a
primary enclosures set forth in § 14.106-

of this parting» t. ,,

(e) To" ensure the humane and ~
healthful transport oflive' wild" mammals
and birds to the United States, transport
shall be accomplished by the carrier in
the most expeditious manner with the”: ' 7
19689111111138? of stop-overs possible. ‘ r
§,14.106 Primary: mm to ‘.
.lTFF’WWMWW stamina W V

-g z ' ', Nil camershaltaccept for- ttanSpoﬂ to

or bird are p 7
not conform to the following :3 . A ‘5 . *

‘ -~n , ,1 ‘99, -‘_’ . 3", vhf); .711»; . ﬂag; {ti}? 5.35.11“! ‘
requirementsr-ags 1“ ~ . —~

' ‘ ,. . . 3 V}. w-

, . losuress'uch ale-“aw: '4 ~

as

‘."‘- r

3

0""Cra’te's'ii‘séd'l‘o transport li've'WiIdj t p , g

 

thaunigeglgsmtesanylivewil’d- mammary '
mary enclosure thatdjoesf f, . - '




hﬂ'~'§uﬁ.if{r§;"_ .7 gr; 1...1V:.*-3:_- "143.1." - 27-2.» x 31- .

or, a:

. ;~;
24154;. _-

“A!

' {d‘eﬂtﬁhﬂ‘ﬁiiﬁé‘iﬁw

43280

Federal Register / Vol.— 52, No. 217 /

Tuesday. November; 10. 1987 I Rules and Regulations

 

mammals or birds shall be cons- ructed

V in such a manner that:

[1) The structural strength of the
enclosure shall be sufficient to contain
the live wild mammal or bird and '
withstand the normal effects of

"transport!

(2) The interior of the enclosure shall
be free from any protrusion that could '
be injurious to the live wild mammal or
bird contained therein; . 7

(3) Except as provided by exceptiOnsi‘ ’

in the section appropriate to the wild
mammal or bird in 'question, no part of
the live wild mammal Or bird shall be
allowed to extend or protrude outside of
the primary enclosure in such a way that
it may cause injuryto the contained
mammal or bird to persons, animals
that are nearby or to handlers of the
primary enclosure;

(4) Access to the primary enclosure
shall be closed and secured with an
animal- proof. device designed to prevent
accidental opening and release of the
mammal or bird;

(5) The opening of such enclosures
shall be easily accessible for emergency
removal of the live wild mammal or bird
by authorized personnel;

(6) The primary enclosure shall have
sufficient openings to ensure adequate
circulation of air” at all times. Except for
permanently, affixed primary enclosures
used to transportlive wild mammals or
birds and an open top enclosure for '
large terrestrial and marine mammals,
spacer bars or other devices shall be
ﬁtted to the exterior of all walls. roof
and base of the primary enclosure to 1

“prevent obstruction of required

ventilation Openings and to provide an
adequate air circulation space between
the primary enclOsure and any adjacent:
cargo or conveyance wall. The size of

.these spacer bars or other. devices shall

be relative to the size of the enclosure
and the number of animals housed
within such enclosure The ,
perpendicular distance from the side of .
the enclosure to the farthest edge of the -
spacer bar shall be at least 10% of the , .
longest dimenSion of the wall roof or
base to which it is attached When VV V._
housing more than one animal on the ‘1
primary enclosure the size of the spacer
bars shall increase proportionally with
the increase in number of animals
housed per enclosure Spacer bars may
be integrated into the hand hoid

" .f requirements described in § 14.106(b3

provided the hand-holds occur on the
side(s3 of the primary enclosure

: conta1ningthe ventilation opening .
. 'V Primary enclosures constructed With one
g or more slanted walls containing a.
- . ; ventilation openmgs do not require a it
I l ] Spacer bar. hpt will Still require hands”

. " holds as described in § 14.106tb3.

V's1des shall also be consp1cuously

(7 '1 The construction material of the
pri tary enclosure shall not be treated
with any paint preservative, or other
chemical that is injurious or otherwise
harmful to the health or well-being of
live Wild mammals and birds " _

(b) Except as provided in paragraph
(e) (if this section, adequate hand holds _
or other devices for lifting by hand or to
facilitate lifting and carrying by machine
shall be made an integral part Of the '
primary enclosure to enable the primary
enclosure to be lifted without excessive
tipping and to ensure that the person
handling the primary enclosure will not
be in contact with the live wild mammal
or bird. "

(c) Primary enclosures used to
transport live wild mammals or birds
shall have solid. leak-proof bottoms or
removeable. leak— proof collection trays
under a slatted or wire mesh floor to
prevent leakage of body fluids or
excreta. The slatted or wire mesh floor
shall be designed and constructed so
that the spacing betweenthe slats or the
holes in the mesh will not trap the limbs
of mammals or birds contained within
the enclosure. Such a primary enclosure
shall contain unused litter of a suitable
absorbent material on the solid bottom
or in the leak-proof tray, in sufficient
quantity to absorb and cover excreta.
This litter should be safe and non- -toxic
to the live cargo contained in the
enclosure Furthermore, litter used in _
primary enclosures shall not resemble '
food or other material normally
consumed by the mammal being .1 " '
transported. A leak-proof, solid« 1
bottomed enclosure used to- transport

birds shall not contain litter. but shall be !

lined with unsoiled paper. Marine- -
mammals transported, in water. in a, .1 1
waterproof enclosure, a sling. or on
foam are exempted from these litter
requirements. ~, ». -.,

(d) If the primary enclosure has been
previously used to transport or store
wild mammals or birds, it shall be. ,_ . l.1.
cleaned and sanitized in a manner that

will destroy pathogenic agents and pests ‘

injurious to the health of live wild
mammals and birds... V . " *
{e} Primary enclosures used to

marked on the outside with arrows to
indicate the correct upright position of
the enclosure. These arrows should.
extend up the sides of the enclosure so
that the point of the arrow is visible and
clearly indicates the top of the
enclosure . ~ - -

(f) Food and water instructions as
specified in § 14.108. information
regarding what constitutes obvious signs
of stress in each species being ' .
transported, and information about any
drugs or medication to be administered
by a qualified attendant or animal care
expert shall be securely attached to
each primary enclosure housing live
wild mammals and birds. Copies of
shipping documents accompanyingthe
shipment shall also be securely attached
to the primary enclosure. Original
documents shall be carried in the
carrier’spouch or manifest container. or
by the shipper's attendant travelling
with the live cargo.

(g) Food and water troughs shall be
securely attached to the interior of the
primary enclosure in such a manner that
the troughs 'can be filled from outside
the enclosure. Any'access to these
troughs should have provisions to
securely clOse the opening with an
animal proof deuce to prevent escape of
the contained mammal or bird. To ‘
prevent water spillage and to reduce the
risk of birds drowning a plate of wood
the size of the interior of the bird V _
enclosure water trough. pierced with
several 1cm (0. 375 in) diameter holes. . 3
shall be floated in the water trough and
fixed in a manner such that it cannot he
accidentally dislodged._ _

(h) In lieu of the requirements of

' § 14. 106(a3f6). and § 14 106( (.b) when

l
1
l

l

V“?

transport live wild mammals and birds. it

except where such primary enclosures
are permanently affixed at the animal
cargo space of the primary commence. V
shall be clearly marked in English 011 the

' outside of the top and one or more Sides

of the enclosure. in letters not less than 1

333:.

ANIMALs "‘ “no nor TIP ‘°‘ “r1113“?

sins up " tjoNLY Aurnoarzsn
PERSONNEL MAY OPEN

mg}.

required instructions. All enclosure.

primary encloSure is permanently
affiXed within the animal Cargo space of
the primary conveyance so that the front
opening is the only Scores of ventilation
for such primary encloSure, the from "
opening shall open directly to the '
outside of the primary convey ance or to
an nit—obstructed aisle or passageway

within the primary canve yance Such

front ventilatlon opening shall consist of

at least 90 percent of the total surrace

area of the front wall of the primary
enclosure and covered With bats, Wire ..

”mesh or smooth expanded metal

{i} The current space and deatgn

guidelines of the lnternahonal Au;

Transport Assocratron Live Animal. 1' J 1
Regulations shall be complied With by ’

’ ‘ all part1es involved in this activity

These space and demgn standards a:

. . requirements 161 spaceland demgn

CONTAINER ” and other appropriate or; V‘

' “ the enclosure shall comply With any; '
, ' eﬂfm 1 t ‘ -'.

contained Within this rule In addition.

 

 

 

 

 




2 ‘ , .' gusting;

prime _
- 7' live wild‘maminalsior birds to the » . .
' '- v. . . . . ., _: igcertam foods shall have such food made
‘ A Unlted..3tate‘8 Shall..be..designed. ‘ ‘ ' -
constructed. and maintained to ensure" '-
' . the humane and healthful transport of “

“2-,Nov-em663’7it’i;?5iss73,.

:/ lantesisﬁd «Regulations» ~;;i:--43281 . -'

 

§ we:ism conveyancéitmstér

(2 a m can r th

ry writers-nee used

the live .wild cargo Contained therein at ' i-

i all times. a

~ {bl Ire ailmausgagspace olihé; I;

‘ "primary conveyance shallbe «-._ ’ 2

constructed and maintained in '5 issues.
, to prevent the harmful ingress of engine '
exhaust fumes and gases produced‘by ”

the primary conveyancef'during
transportation; ‘ ‘5 i " 9‘- . 3 *
(c) No live wild mammal or bird shall
be placed in an animal cargo space of a
primary conveyance that does not have
a supply of air sufficient for normal
breathing for each live. mammal or bird _
contained therein. Primary enclosures
shall be positioned in the animal cargn '

space in such a manner that each live '

specimen has access

3 to suffiCient air. for
normal breathing. '- ’ '

(d) Primary enclosures shall be '

' positioned in the primary conveyance in'
such a manner that in an emergency the
or birds can be easily and quickly
removed. 1 A ' ‘1 "” "‘

' ' (e) The interior of the animal cargo
space shall be kept clean to ensure that
live wild mammals or birds are not
exposed to disease-causing agents.

(f) Live wild mammals or birds shall
not be transported with any material.
substance (e.g., dry ice) or device that
may reasonably be expected to result in
inhumane conditions or be injurious to
the health of the live cargo unless all
reasonable precautions are taken to
prevent such conditions or injury.

~ primary enclosure containing mammals '

,.2.,£o;znmen<;s Zentof janapoitlté the
UnitedZStatesrduring intermittent step:

ﬁlament mamas pribr to; .1;

havépotableWatermadeavauabieto

.44

,o'Vers.‘ ‘br as ”directed by'l‘theshipperfs ,
Written instructions. 3.3.3; :
. ., ,3 in) Those speCies of wild mammals ,
to transport. "i'v'fand‘birds obtaining their moisture from
Liavailablegto them at all times prior to
commencement of transport to the " f3 3
..:.-:2.{United States and during stopovers, or 2'
_- as directed by the shipper'swritten
jinstructions.» __ - ._ ~ g . 3. 5
.;}”59:{d} During a Stop-'overmammals or

‘ -‘ birds in transit should be‘Observedno; "
3993 frequently than once every four '

j; hours by the carrier for condition and
. 'given'foodand water according to

' i ;§14.1os(a)and §14.1os(a). If distressed
. mammals or birds are observed during
' the required inspection, or at any time, a

. veterinarian or other person capable of

, providing proper care should be 3 3
* supplied by'thecarrier as soon as 2 < ._ ..
‘possible. -‘ .

' 2 (e) The prescribed food shallbelﬂb 4

Provided by the shipper unless ..- '

otherwise contracted for between the

' parties. ' ‘ '

' (i) More speCific food and water
requirements will be found in. the _
appropriate sections for the wild , " . _

' mammalor bird in question.

§ 14.109 cm in transit. .
[a] Duringsurface or water . ' ,
transportation towthe United States, it

f shall be the responsibility of the Carrier
. to visually observe each live wild

mammal or bird as frequently as
circumstances allow. but not less than
once every 4 hours. to assure that they
are receiving sufﬁcient air for normal
breathing, that ambient air temperatures
are within prescribed limits appropriate
for thewild mammal or bird in question,
and that all other applicable standards

-. are complied with. Such observations by

the carrier shall also be to determine

‘511sitéh"as“sihss'stassistants;fans.5‘fji.‘3;9...;- '27-. , L
j blowersor airponditioning shall be used 3 3 ‘
igloreduce the ambient airtemperature 3.; 3. '
r ‘s-iIWhen‘tlie air temperature within Such . 3'
1;:'animal‘lio.ldin'g area, transporting device
‘- or primary canveyance is 521.1degrees ~C
' (70 degrees F) or higher. Ambient air ’
'- temperatures pertaining to holdingand
7 transport of live wild birds will be found
3' “in the scotion appropriate for the wild ,
” bird in question. ~ ‘ - » '
_‘ 55 {c} When transported
. mammals or birds shall be visually
, observed by the carrier as frequently as
{circumstances may dictate. but not less '
7; than once every 4 hours if the animal

byes. live wild

'_'cargo space is acCessible during flight; f ;

Should the animal cargo space not be
" accessible during ﬂight. the carrier shall

visually-observe the live wild mammal =
or bird whenever loaded and unloaded
and whenever the animal cargo space is
otherwise accessible to ensure that the
livewild mammals or birds are
receiving sufficient air'for normal
breathing. that the ambient air '
temperatures are within prescribed

. limits as specified in the-section
. appropriate for the wild mammals or
. -' birds in question, that the air pressure
' maintained within the cargo area be

suitable to support live specimens
(pressurized equivalent to a maximum

‘ altitude of 8000 feet), and that all other

applicable standards are complied with.
Such observation by the carrier shall,
also, be to determine whether any of the
live wild mammals or birds are in
obvious distress and to attempt to
correct conditions where observation
discloses such distress and to provide
any needed veterinary care as soon as
possible.

'[dl Care shall be exercised to avoid
handling the primary enclosure in such a
manner that may cause physical or
psychological trauma to the live wild
mammal or bird contained therein.

(e) A primary enclosure used to move

§ 14.108 Feed and water requirements.

(a) No carrier shall accept any live
wild mammal or bird for transport to the
United States unless written instructions
from the shipper concerning food and

3 water requirements of such live wild

‘3 mammal or bird being transported is

securely affixed to the outside of its

3 primary enclosure. Such instructions
shall be consistent with professionally-
accepted standards of care and include, '
specifically. the quantity of water
required. the amount and type, of food,
and thefrequency of feeding and ‘
watering for the live wild mammal or
bird necessary to fulfill the purposes of
this subpart. ’

(b) Those species of wild mammals
and birds requix; ‘_; drinking water shall

it any live wild mammal or bird shall not
be tipped, dropped, or otherwise mis-

l‘f handled and shall not be stacked or

3 placed in a manner that may reasonably

whether any of the live wild mammals
or birds are in obvious distress and to
attempt to correct conditions where
observation discloses such distress. and
to provide any needed veterinary care 3 be expected ‘0 T9811“ in its falling 01‘
as soon as possible if no veterinarian. 959533 tipped. .
. animal nurse, or qualiﬁed attendant is ' 3 (f) Animals which are incompatible
traveling with the shipment. _ ‘ , ‘ . .2 . shall not be crated together or held in
(b) The ambient air temperature for 3 close proximity to one another. These
live wild mammals in an animal holding . live specimens shall be maintained such
* area, transporting device or prime i that they are not within visual or 3
conveyance shall not be allowed to fall olfactory contact. 5 . . ,.
below.7.'2 degrees C [45 degrees F ) nor (g) Unless prevented by normal
be allowed to exceed 23.9 degrees C (75 aircraft loading procedures. the. shipper
- degrees F). However, no live wild 5 and carrier shall agree that a cargo of
mammal shall be subjected to‘ambient wild mammals or birds travelling to the
‘air temperatures which exceed 21.1 5 aircraft’s final destination should be
if? degrees C (70 degrees F) for more than 4 first loaded'into the carrier and last off-
" hours at a time. Auxiliary ventilation. loaded to reduce excess stress

1*

 

 




«on»... \‘1 1.}: gr-“ “1 “at: ~

 

2» ,

If . #1 move ”live wxldmonenalsorbrrds . .1 2

:7 tmnattfwdaty and MWIPW’
foamyancens expeamﬁl’m ,.

1.. .. .. . - 1.. . -IV
1.21 if”? V\ a» g 1 u... v, _ _ 1» r ,_ 1._"_ - u ,
. » . 2 - ,

43282

Federal Register 7' Vol. 52 No. 213’ f Tues b.2132. No1 em 2er ti)

1C1

‘ AK.’

87 / Roles end Reguldmms

 

experienced dot ring the Welt on the
runway or dock for handling and of?—
loading and re- 4loading at intermediate
stopovers. Movement between the
primary conveyance 31111211112 carr‘ier‘s' '2 '
wild mammal or bird holding area
should be as eXpediﬁou's as possible
(hrro ensure the humane and

_ healthful transport of the live wild}

msmmels 9111111713111 the itinitéd‘Ststes "

transport shall be accomplished by the:

carrier in the most expeditions 111111111111.
with the least number of stop-overs
possible and without unnecessary
delays.

§- 14.110 Terminal facilities. . , i

{83 All terminal facilities used for live
wild momma-110123131711 transport in the 7
country ofexport. stopaover countries;
and the United States shall 11101112113

within such facilities on animal. holding 2

area or areas. No carrier-or shipper shell
co-mingleliveeziimal shipmeots with; 7
inanimate cargo inan animal holding
area. Different species of nonhuman
primates shall not be held in close
proximity to each other 111 an sninml
holding area.

lb.) Carriers and shippers holding eny
wild mammal or bird 111 an animal
holding area of a terminal {scanty shall
provide the following:

[1) A cleaned and samtized holding

ares preventing accumulation of debris A I

or excreta. destroying pathogenic
agents and minimising vermin .
infestation so as to prevent harm and
diseaSe hazards to :live wild mammals
orbirdsb

I25 Aoeflectwe p1 ogram lor the

' (101111111 of insects. ectoparssites. and

pests of wild mammals or birds:

131 31111138111181.2111 m .10 1111018 11191118 I

cargo 11011111811 breathing. Ventilatlon

shall be presided by means of windows. I '_

deors. vents. air conditioning fa'n3...]
blowers. or other means. so as to
minimize drafts. odors. and moisture
condensatiom. t ..

[4,.) Ambient air temperatures

mamtamed within prescribed 111111111 as I

spec1fied' 111 § 14.109'Ib) or more speciﬁcl

' 1 temperature 11111113101133 1n the section- .2
, appropnate for the Mid mammal or bird
.. . in question. .2 -: . ~ .

'7 . § “.311 Starvation. 37.
' .2'. Corners 11-1311 not 311153 live mammals
-‘-.’j'orbrrds to. remain waiting forestended
- -2 " periods 'oll'trme 111 unpmpsred hve»
'52" mammal or b3rd hOldiﬁg sreas’btft shall

ed 1111 13111de holding area 111112.;

1122212211261 361': Ellis 01 ttdnst‘xort'nu 211137 Wild
mammal to or from the eninhmi 11 )idi.-g
area of a terminal facility or between
this holding area and the primary
convevance". including loading and

followmg: . .
(a) Sheftor from 45111113121 end 7?:ea't' 7““

372
unloading procedures. 5 bell provide the 3
i
5

"‘V’Vhen Sunlight 1s l1kely to cause

overheating or discomfort sufficient '

. . shade shall be provided to protect a . _
" wild mammal or bird from the direct '
raysol the sun. The contained live wild ‘

mammal or bird shall not be subject to

' ambient air temperatures that exceed.

those speciﬁed 111 the section
appropriate for the wild mammal or bird
in question.

(b) Shefterfmm precszrto'tzon. Live
wild mammals or birds shall be .
provided protection to allow them‘tc — ~
remain dry during rain. snow brother
forms of precipitation '

(9)7 Shelter from cold weather Live

. wild mammals or birds shall be

provided protection from cold when-
ambient air temperatures fall belbw
minimum temperatures for the stated
time periods specified 111 the section
oppropriatefor the wild mammal or bird
in question Protectionfrom the cold

. shall include. but not be lim'z ted 'to

covering and heating of transport 7 .
devices used to move the mammals or
birds between the primary conveyance
and the carrier‘ 3 wild mammal or bird

holding area.

, Id) Shelterfmm 12.282.111.213 Wild ~
mammals or birds leprepared holding:

g areas and in transporting devicessha‘ll.’

be proxfided relief when 31111511211131:
temperatures rise above the maximum
temperatures to: the stated time periods
in tbs sertmoopproprmte for the wild
11112111111183 or bird' 1111 question. Protection
frrnn heat shall include. but not be "
limited to. Covering and cooling by air
conditiomng fan. blower. or other . _
means so as to minimize drafts. odors.
and 1111113111112 condensation;

I113 Protecfion from Massmenl. Lu; _ .1 7

wild mammals or birds 111 prepared
holding areas and 1n transporting
devices shall be protected £10m . .
disturbances. 11111111611113; but not limited
to harassment by humans, other
animals or noxmus machmerv. ....

§14. 1'12 Harm to" wﬂd mammals or bards "

4171'?” . .”4‘.
“772.? 1.7.”? .73;

W Shipment. ,_ . _
Nommer Shall persist a wild
mammal or 71111211 to be lk‘tl’led, 2111511196 or

\ sdbyected to psychologrczd beams 11;;
"_ exposure to hamlet sir tempera

pressm'e or inadequate ventilation. '

Prmwded’that ﬁns sdbsection shallow

ﬁat"- P 2

transport col}; to 5131' temperature. air
pressure end .17entilc1tion standards as
required by this subpart. Such evidence '
shall be considered adequate which
fully documents the air temperature air
pressure and ventilation condi lions '
experienced by the mold mammal or bird
as recorded during transport either '
through periodic personal observation or . ‘
;by automatic monitoring instruments

Speciﬁcations .for‘ the Humane and
Healthful Transport of Non-Human
Primates

§ 14.121 Consignment to carrier for ,
transport.

Is) In addition to the following more
definitive requirements. all appropriate
conditions of §§ 14 105-14312 must also
be satisfied.

(b) No carrier shall accept any live

I wild. oidworld. non-homes primate for

transport to theiinited States unless a . .
qualified Veterinarian authorizedby the 7
national government of the country from
which the non—h 111111.111 primate is being
exported certifies that thenomhuman.
primate has a negative‘tubercnlosis test

and has been subiected to a holding and

conditioning period of at least 7 days
Certiﬁcation to this effect shall be
included 111 the health certiﬁcate 193119.11
by the examining vetennmsn. ' 7‘

§ 14. 122 Primary enclosures used to
transport live non-human primates.

I39} Noenore than one hue mbunmn
primate shall be transpmted.’ 111 3
primary enclosure. However. a mother
and her nursingyonng being transported

‘ to the Unrted States {or medical

treatment. an estnblis‘hed moleiemale

pales fondly ngoop .3 pair of 11111311119.

animals thot have not reached puberty:
or other pairs .ofsoirosls that have been

' habitually housed together may be '

shipped in the some prim91fy~enclosure
Individually housed non—hm
primates of different species shall not be
shipped together' in an enclosure hearing

' ' more than one 121113th

fb’} Primary enclosures used 1111 2
11111191701! live sen-humon primates shall
be large enough to endow that sec 31”
animal 11011191311116 therem’hss sufficient
space 1111111211 311111111! freely 1n smomel

" manner and mesh 111 11211 upright hands

down 90317111111 wrthoutsitsbead touching

. __  -the7‘top ofthe‘ pﬁmaryendom
" Howevermon’humsommtesmaybev ‘ _
restricted 111 than movementsscocrdmg ,-

' handler. or. otherpGrS" A
".7" Wol'Except ss‘provrded% $34 WM
when scoot 1,9,

‘ﬁwlﬁcated‘

 




J 7 the {armament}

 

 

'L' i. Puma”? ‘ _ . .
L 7 openings mloeatedonj “fourwelis
_ ,- "contraction
- . 0peningson each well shall bé at least

20 percent of the total surface area of
V. _ L I the web and ﬂoated shoreline midlme
of the primary enclosure "

§ 14.123 Food and water requirements.

(a) All hire nonhuman. primates shall
be provided potable water Within 4
hours prior to commencement of- _
transport in: the United- States unless Lb " "

otherwise directed by the shipper s : -

. written instructions. Carriers shall
provide potable water to as live new
human primates at least every ‘12 hours
after acceptances for transportation to

the United States or as instructed by the

f shipper
(b) Each live adult non-human primate

. food made available toil at least once in
each 24 hour period ands live non- .
human primate loss than I yt‘éuar’olE ag'e

shall have suitable food and water made
available to it at least once every'ﬁl "

-‘ ,, hours by the comet after weptance for

‘transpottatien' tothe UmtedState-s. ; ‘
unless otherwise insmrcted by" the
Meow - . .

§1¢124 Care in transit. J'VI‘ j

(a) If an intermediate stop lasts more
than 4hours. nonhuman primates shall
be observed for Condition and given
food and water according to the I
shipper' Is instructions.

(h) Care shall be taken to keep non-
human primates in primary enclosures
separated in the primary conveyance so
as to minimize the risk of spread“ of’
disease from one species to another.

§ 14125 Handling

Shelter from cold or heat; Live non—
human primates shall be provided
protection when» the. air temperature
fallsbelow lodegrees CL {50 degrees F).
and shall not. bexuhiected to ambient
air temperatures that fall below 2.2
degrees-C {45 degrees Flor above 30
. ‘. degrees (11,85 degrees F} for more than

45 minutes. When the ambient air

temperature falls below 45degreesF or. 1. -

rises above 85 degrees F. the non-human

a Ihoidingarea With suitable temperature
and ventilatiomprotimtion from-cold .
shall" inchide. "but not lie-limited to '
covering, and heating of transporting
devices used to move the non—human
primate between the primary

is} In addition to the followmg more ' 3 .1-
‘ defun'tiv arequirements. ”all appropriate
"' ' conditions of 55.- 34.3565»
' he'satisfied. ' " "

4312 must also

514132 WWumm

- transport" ﬁve curate We.

{a} Eatcept‘ for priruary enclosures that

‘ , are not Completed}: enclosed. the primary
3 enclosure shall have air inlets at heights
of the enclosure that will provide cross
ventilation at all levels (particularly '
. when the marine mammals are in a
' - prone position? and located on all four

sides of the enclosure. Such ventilation

Openings shall comprise not less one 16
percent of the total surface area of each

. 1 year of age or shall have suitable _ ., Side or the enclosure. Spacer bars or

other devices. as described in 5 14.10MB)

- are required unless this primary

centainer is permanently affixed m the
animal cargo: space of the primary
conveyance.

{b 3 Straps; slings. harnesses. or other .
suchdeaces.“ u used tor body support or
restraint when transporting marine ' .

mammals SUCllI as cetaceans 0f Sll'el'll8n8

. shall meet me'Iiollowing requirements; . ,

(1) Such devices shall not prevent
access to marine mammals by °

attendants during: transportation for the .
”purpose of administering in transit care: .

(2) Such devices shall be equipped
with special padding to prevent trauma

' or iniury at contact points on the body
I of the uterine ammmﬂ k.

(3) Slings or harnesses shall allow free

. movement of the ﬂippers outside of the
harness or sling:

(4) Such devices shall be capable of
keeping the mammals from thrashing. _
about and causing injury to themselves
or their attendants and yet be
adequately designed so as not to cause
injury to the mammals.

{c} Primary enclosures used to
transport live marine mammals shall be
large enough to assure that:

(1) Sea otters and polar bears have -
sufﬁcient space to turn about freely to a

stance whereby all four feet are on the I. I
I flour and the mammal can sit in an . _ 7'.
V L- upright position. stand or lie in a natural
primate shall be. immediately movedto '

position;

[2) Each plumper: Shall have sufﬁcxent
' space to lie in a natural posmon.

{3) There shall be at least 3 inches of ',
clearance between any body- part and
the primary enclosure if a sling. harness

or other body supporting device is used

‘m'their movements according to

- . pied standards of
..‘care When ireedontof movement. would
"ficoastitute a danger its the animals. I '* '
'1'handlers or other persons.

5d) Marine mammals transported to

the United States in the same primary
enclosure shalt be or the same spasms
and mamﬁtmedm compatible groups.
Marine mammals that have not reached
puberty Shall net be transported in the
some primary enslosure with adult

L marine mammals other than their ,
. mothers. Socially dependent animals

(e. g.. sibling. mother and offspring)
transported.’ in- the same primary _ L
conveyance Shall be allowed visual and
olfactory contact. Female marine

mammals shall not be transported.’ in the

same primary enclosure with. any
mature male. uterine mammal. An
unweaned marine mammal transported
without its mother. may not travel

- without anatiendant...

5 14.133 Food and ureter requirements.

(a) Marine mammals shall not be
transported for more thana period cl 36
hours without being offered suitable
food unless otherwise directed by the
shipper 3 written instructions, or by the
shipper s attendant travellingdwith the
mammal.

{'0} After feeding. theselive specimens

I shall be rested for 6 hours- prior to

resuming transport in order to allow
digestive and eliminative processes to
occur LI I .

§ 14.134 Care in transit.

(a) The shipper. or an authorized
repreSentative of the shipper of any

marine manual being transported to. the '

United States. knowledgeable m the
area. of marine mammal care. shall
accompany. in the same primary
conveyance. cetaceans. sirenians. sea
otters. pinnipeds, and polar bears during
transportation to provide for the .
animals health and well being This _ .
representative shall observe such
marine mammals to determine whether
or not they need veterinary care and to

' provide or'obtainan-y- needed veterinary
._ care as soon as possible. Such person

shall provide for cetaceans and

sirenians during periods of transport by:

(1] Keeping the Skin moist or . .
preventing the drying of the skin by such
methodsas. coveringwith wet cloths. .1 I
intermittent spraying of water or
application of a non-loxicgemollient.
such as lanolin

-' ‘ n , > . ' l ‘ < i
. '. ‘ . t t . ”A . {V A: p A ’ : .
r “:3." '- «'x we f-F:‘:’.~.'...‘ 2:.r.‘;:2.. pm?» “ "0 ‘w;
L‘ ;. : Fﬁﬁwl’ﬁv‘hp‘v’Jﬁ-r‘wﬂ LEI ‘. .u‘ NV" 3’ ..t ' '[‘-'A.‘v’i'}' .:'~a V a.» 'r‘v -

"4 2w . .‘Jx

 




L

'1

.'

’51 .
1,.
f:

'.‘ 1
.‘I'

~I .
6"

’.

[7"
3'1‘ '

” - " was enzmﬁﬁcgu

 

Y

4328-. Federal Register / Vol.- 52, No. 217 /' Tuesday, November 10. 1.987 / Rules and Regulations.

. .l .: ._ J Healthful Transport of Elephants and
I 2 .. IIUngulates .. ._

~ g: I 11 M4. 141 Consignment to carrier for

.. . “MPG”. ,

' ,, Ia) In add1tion to the followmg more 53;;

definitive requirements. all appropriate

J, 4 conditions of § 14105—14 112 must a1so f:,-.‘I.li.

be satisfied. ‘1 ‘ .r:

.. 1 . IbJ Spec1es which grow antlers shall -

not be accepted for transport unless the FL}?

3. i antlers have been shed or surg1cally.
- 1' ifremoved. “’1 ‘

— ..,. . .. .
, ,. , 1‘.\_J|'[.t’}A'-.Jf“ r. .‘ ,4 . ‘.:;._-_. ”11,1,“ .I. on,” VI“). A, . .
ere. .. . . . 1.: «, :1 .»
, , ‘. . .
I . . " _ - v1 , , .
. u > . . ,

‘3 wwﬁ {1157*

3 -‘-'.-:~1.\§-,’1'»‘ 5,3151}; magma

 

I2) Assuring that the pectoral ﬂippers
shall be allowed freedom of mow ment
at all times;

(3) Making adjustments 1n the position

of such marine mammals when
necessary to prevent necrosis of the skin
at weight pressure points; and

I4) Calming such marine mammals to
avoid struggling, thrashing, and other
unnecessary actiVity which may cause :
overheating or physical trauma. '

IbJ Not less than one half of the floor
area in a primary enclosure used to
transport sea otters to the United States
shall contain sufficient crushed ice or
ice water to provide each sea otter

contained therein with moisture '

necessary to maintain its hair coat by
preventing it from drying and to
minimize soiling of the hair coat with
urine and fecal material. However, the
shipper’ s attendant accompanying the
sea otter may direct different care when
required for the health and well being of
the sea otter.

IcJ Wild or otherwise dangerous
marinemammals shall not be taken
from the primary enclosure except under
extreme emergency conditions and than
only by their attendant or other
authorized individuals who are capable
of handling such mammals safely.

i § 14.135 Handling.

IaJ Shelter from 311111th and beat

. 1. When Sunlight is likely to cause I
overheating and discomfort sufficient
_Ishade shall be provided to protect a live .

marine mammal from the direct rays of

" j Ithé sun and such live marinemammal
shall not be subjected to surrounding air 'I ~

temperatures that exceed 21.1 degrees C
(70 degrees F). ' - .

IbJ Shelter from cold weather. '
Transporting devices shall be covered
and heated to provide protection for

‘ marine mammals when the Outdoor air
temperature falls below 10 degrees C I50 ‘

degrees F). Marine mammals shall not
be subjected to surrounding air 5
temperatures that fall below 7. 2 degrees .
C I45 degrees F) However, polar bears ..
are exempt from this latter requirement

‘ and may be subjected to temperatures
below 7.2 degrees C I45 degrees F)-

Specrfications for the Humane and

Z}!

_ nearby. attendants or cargo handlers. .
(8) Primary enclosures for elephants "

. _§ 14.143 Handling, 3.. . .

. I When sunlight is likely to cause

§ 14.142 Primary enclosures used to
transport live elephants and ungutates.

IaJ Except as provided in § 14.10681)
when required ventilation openings are
lucated on two opposite walls of the
primary enclosure. these ventilation
openings on each well shall be at least
16 percent of the total surface area at
the wall. When ventilation openings are
located on all four walls of the primary
enclosure the openings on the wall shall
be at least 8 percent of the total surface
area of the well. At least oneothird of the
minimum area required for ventilation of

‘ the primary enclosure shall be located

on the lower one~half of the primary
enclosure and at least one third .of the
total‘minimum area required for '
ventilation of the primary enclosure

shall be located on the upper one-half of 1

the primary enclosure.-

IbJ No more than one live elephant or .

ungulate shall be transported in a '
primary enclosure. However, a mother ,
and nursing young may be shipped in
the same primary enclosure if the
transport is required for necessary
medical treatment and traveling with
veterinary certiﬁcation described in

. §14.105(a).

(a) Primary enclosures used to
transport live elephants or ungulates
shall be of a dimension that enables the

' animal to lie or stand in a natural
" upright position with the head extended

while at the same time restricting the

movement of the animal so that it is

unable to somersault or roll over. 1
Id) The primary enclosure used to .

- transport elephants or ungulates with

horns or tusks shall be designed and
constructed to prevent the animal’ 3
home or tasks from becoming trapped or
injuring themselves, other animals

and ungulates should be so designed
that an un-breakable water tray or .
trough may he slipped into the crate
through a shallow trap door. The water
container shall be securely hung on the
outside of the primary enclosure and

. . used to offer fresh water to the elephant
;: . or ungulate in accordance With .6, 14.108.

Ia) Shaker from sunlngt and heat

overheating and discomfort, suffiment

3 shade shall be provided to protect a live ‘1.
' elephant or ungulate from the direct rays

of the sun and such live elephant or
ungulate shall not be Subjected to}:

surrounding ambient air temperatures

that exceed 23 9 degrees C I75 degrees

IbJ Shelter from cold weather.

Transporting dev1ces shall be overed 1

and heated to provide protection for like
elephants or ungulates when the outdoor
air temperature falls below ’10 degrees C
I50 degrees F).

Specifications for the Humane-and"
Healthful Transport of Terrestrial

.Mammals (Excluding Elephants and
- Ungulates) .

§ 14.151 Consignment to carrier for 7 1
transport. , . . *

(a) In addition to the followmg more .
definitive requirements, all appropriate '
conditions of § 14 .105-14. 112 must also :

' be satisﬁed.

§ 14.152 Primary enclosures used to
transport ttve terrestrial mammals. ..

(a) Except as provided in § 14.106IhJ I”
when required ventilation openings are, ._
located on two opposite walls of the-
primary enclbsure, these ventilation
openings on each wall shall be at least
16 percent of the total surface area of
the wall. When ventilation openings are.
located on all four walls of the primary ,
enclosure, the openings on each wall
shall be at least 8 percent of the total
surface area of the wall. At least one-
third of the minimum area required for
ventilation of the primary enclosure
shall be located on the lower one-half of»
the primary enclosure and at least one- .
third of the total minimum area required .-
for ventilation of the primary enclosure
shall be located on the upper one-half of";
the primary enclosure. . " ~

(b) No mare than one live terrestrial
mammal shall be transported in a
primary enclosure. However. a mother
and her nursing young may be . , ..e '

’ ‘ transported in the same primary _
' enclosure if the transportation is to

obtain necessary medical treatment and"
veterinary certiﬁCation has been isSued '
stating that the animal has been

‘ examined and is physically able to

withstand the normal rigors of transport

‘ . to the United States

(c) More than one live small rodent

may be transported in the same pnmary -----
. enclOsure if they are the same species . I _
and maintained' 111 compatible groups. ‘ ‘
a}: Small rodents that are incompatible ' 1‘
' . shall be transported 1n1nd1v1dual .
3' primary enclosures that are stored and
transported so they are” Visually

separated Females with their young

f: shall not be transported in primary
enclosures with other animals. The
followmg denmfy guidelines shall be
used Wheh transportmg small rodents
that fall within, the spec1fied weight”

 




“ “ Novemberiosniff/"Tamas v‘aﬁd‘aRé-"gﬁiétiﬁﬁ’é’ ‘

 

 

 

 

7 11"1 . ’
7770 ,
e
y a

2,310

.3” 3‘1. ﬂzizts‘ ._ 1‘?

 

 

 

 

 

’ ‘19-f-éjtransported 1n a primary enclosure
f-EjHowever. a mother and her nursing
g;;§_youn7g. an established males-female pair. 5
a family group, a‘ pair of juvenile ‘ .-

1. _ animals that have not reached puberty.

or other pairs Of animals that have been " '

.. * w habitually housed together may be

 

(d) Primary enclosures used to 7X;
transport live terrestrial mammals shall
be large enough to ensure that each
' animal contained therein has sufficient
space to turn around freely 1n 3 normal
manner. The height of the primary

, enclosure shall provide adequate space ’7

for the animal to stand upright 1n a ‘ j"f
normal posture. The length of the
' primary enclosure shall be long enough
to enable the terrestrial mammal to lie
in a full prone p081t10n ' - -

§ 14.153 Handling.

(a) Shelter from sunlight ona’ heat
When sunlight 1s likely to cause

overheating and discomfort. sufficient

shade shall be provided to protect a live
terrestrial mammal from the direct rays
of the sun. Live terrestrial mammals
shall not be subjected to surrounding air

temperatures that exceed 23.9 degrees C

{75 degrees F).
(b) Shelter from cold Weather
Transporting devices shall be covered

terrestrial mam1hals when Outdoor air
temperature falls below 10 degrees C (50
degrees F).

Speciﬁcations for the Humane and ‘
Healthful Transport of Sloths, Bats, and -
Flying Lemurs (Cynocephalidae)

§ 14.171 Consignment to carrier for
transport.

In addition to the following more
definitive requirements. all appropriate
conditions of § 14. 105-14112 must be
satisfied.

§ 14.172 Primary enclosures used to
transport live sloths, bats, and flying lemurs
(Cynocephalidae).

(a) Except as provided in § 14. 106(11)
of this section. when required
ventilation openings are located on two
opposite walls of the primary enclosure.
the ventilation openings on each Wall .
shall be at least 16 percent of the total
surface area of the wall. When . ,
ventilation openings are located on all .;
four walls of the primary enclosure. the
openings on each wall shall be at least 8
percent of the total surfaCe area 0f the "
wall However. at least one- -third of the
total minimum area required for 7
ventilation of the p171: ry enclosure

.. ‘ shipped in the same primary enclosure

7777777shall be located on the 1113159? oné-half 0f 7 77:

319 Primary enclosure .7 , _ .
llbl No more than one hve sloth hat or

(c) Primary enclosures used to

I 7'transp0rt live slothS, bats or flying, , .. .
lemurs (CynoCephalidae) shall be large

enough to ensure that each animal
contained therein has sufficient space to

I move freely and in a normal manner.
. Primary enclosures designed and " 1 .
constructed to transport sloths, bats or

ﬂying lemurs [Cynocephalidae) shall

have a wide perch. bar or mesh of .
suitable strength fitted under the top of
the primary enclosure and spaced from

7 . it in such a way that the animals may

hang from it in their natural position.

.§ 14.173 Handling.

(3) Shelter from sunlight and heat.
When sunlight 18 likely to cause '
overheating and discomfort, sufficient
shade shall be provided to protect a live
sloth. bet or flying lemur . .
[Cynocephalidae] frOm the direCt rays of
the sun. A live sloth, bat or flying lemur
_(Cynocephalidae) shall not be subjected

and heated to provide protection for live to surroundmg temperatures that exceed

23.9 degrees C (75degrees F).

(b) Shelter from cold weather.
Transporting devices shall be covered
and heated to provide protection for live
sloths. bats or flying lemurs
(Cynocephalidae) when the outdoor air
temperature falls below 10 degrees C (50
degrees F). . ,

Specifications for the Humane and
Healthful Transport of Perching Birds
Including. But Not Limited to.

.Passerines. Parrots, Hombills. Nectar-

Feeding Birds, and Toucans

§ 14.181 Consignment to carrier for
transport.

(a) In addition to the following more
definitive requirements. all appropriate
conditions of § 14105-44112. must also
be satisfied.

(b) Personally owned pet birds that
originated 1n the United States and are

. being returned to this country within 60

days of departure with their original
United States health certiﬁcate do not
require a new veterinary examination to
be accepted by the carrier for transport
to the United States ' '

(c) No carrier shall ascept any live
wild bird for transport to the United
States that has been captured in the

, 11d unless a qualified vetermarian .-~
. 'fi’authorized by the national government _
1'; _ of the Country from which the bird ls . .
. :' i being exported certifies that the bifd has "
gilbeen subjected to a holding and V.
“ ' conditioning period of at least 14 days
Certification to this effect shall be , .
ineluded 111 the health certifiCate issued -.
‘ by the examining veterinarian . '

._;‘7 § 14.18:?! Primary enclosures Used to
‘transport live perchan birds. ‘; ' ‘1 , ,

(a) anary enclosures fOr live Wild
birds shall have openings on two sides '
for ventilation so as to ensure adequate
Circulation of air at all times. These ~ '

. ventilation openings on each wall shall '

be at least'IB- percent of the total surface
area of the wall and be positioned so as
to decrease the likelihood of creating a
draft. _

(b) Perches shall be provided for live
wild birds that rest by perching. The
diameter of the perch shall be large
enough to permit the birds to maintain a
ﬁrm, comfortable grip. Perches should
be placed so that droppings do not fall
into food or water troughs or onto other
perched birds. There shall be enough .
head room to allow the birds to move on .
and off the perches without touching the
top of the primary enclosure and to
perch without the tail feathers being
damaged. ' ._ .

(c) Primary enclosures used to __
transport live perching birds shall, be
large enough to ensure that the birds
have suffici ent perch space so that each
bird can perch comfortably at the same
time and that each bird has enough
space to stretch each wing without
contact with another bird and to turn
around, but no flight is possible. 7

(d) Nectar-feeding birds transported

. free~to-move in primary enclosures shall

be provided with either side hanging
feeding bottles that are fitted with
spouts projecting into the primary
enclosure or flat feeding bottles fastened
to the floor and which are accessible
from outside for replenishment
purposes. Nectar—feeding birds
transported constrained and carried by
hand shall be fed by hand in accordance
with the instructions written by the
shipper. The number of hummingbirds in
a container shall be carefully controlled
to avoid mortality by overcrowding. . _
(e) Live wild birds transported in the
same primary enclosure Shall be of the
same species and maintained in
congenial-groups. Birdsthat are .
incompatible shall be placed in
individual primary enclosures and these
enclosures shall not be stored or '
transported in visual proximity to each
other in order to reduce stress on the

‘ birds being transported.

 

.77 ‘17::- '-‘_ 1“" »,
.. . -_:, ' _, w. ' " .Hs
» 1.1- : .~ M: E"? -::.~.
. I - ,I—wﬂ» ,:» " in
143285 ,_,. ~
- - v
. ‘ " I




 

 

 

I

D

43288 Federal Register I Vol. 52. No. 217 / Tuesday, November 10. 1987 I Rules and Regulations

 

§ 14.183 Terminal facilities.

The ambientair temperature arvsztd
any live perching bird in any mammal or
bird holding area, transporting device.
or primary conveyance shall not be ‘
allowed to fall below 12. 8 degrees C (55 '
degrees F) nor be allowed to exceed 29. 5
degrees C (85 degrees F). No perching
bird shall be subjected to ambient air
temperatures that exceed 26.? degrees C
(80 degrees F) formore than 4 hours at.
any time. Auxiliary ventilation such as
exhaust. fans. vents. fans. blewers or air -
conditioning shall be used to reduce the
ambient air temperature to 26.7 degrees
C (80 degrees F) or lower when the air .
temperature within such mammal or
bird holding area is higher than 26.7,
degrees C (80 degrees F). V _

§ 14.184 Handling.

(a) Shelter from sunlight and heat.
When sunlight is likely to cause
overheating and discomfort. sufficient ‘
shade shall be provided to protect a live
perching bird from the direct rays of the
sun. Temperatures shall be limited as ~ 4
indicated in § 14.183.

-- (b) Sheltefﬁ'Om cold weathen‘
Transporting devices shall be covered
and heated to provide protection for live
-perching birds when the outdoor air ,
temperature falls below 15. 6 degrees C
(60 degrees F).

V Speciﬁcations for the Hartman and

Healthful Transport of Raptorial Birds

V Including. But Not Limited to, Hawks,
Owls, amd Vultures "

. ‘ “4.191 Wottocamertor
' transport. _. .. .

(a) In addition to the foliowmg more
deﬁnitive requirements; all appropriate
conditions of § 14.10544.er must also
be satisﬁed. . T -

(b) Personally owned pct birds that
originated' 111 the United States and are 2
being returned to this country within 60 .

' days of departure with their original

: United States health certificate do not _,

5 require a new veterinary examination to? .
be ascepted by the carrrer fur transport V] 2

to the United States ,
(c) No carriers shall accept any live

‘ 5‘ f vvild raptOrial birds for transport to the
. United States that have been captured

in the wild unless a qualiﬁed

XIV' ‘V When sunli islike tocause-
‘, veterinarian authoﬁZed by the national . 1 3h! ly

* ' g0vernment or the country from which
V I “f' the bird is bemg exported certiﬁes that .2 *
the bird has been subjected to a. holding~ _

‘ . [and conditioning 1181'“)de a least 14 _,
:2 days. Certiﬁcation to this effect shall be
a, included in, the health cerhficate issued:
5 f,” by the exammmgveteriaaman. .. 5:1,:

§ 14.132 Primary enclosures used to .~
tranSport live raptoriat birds.

{8) The primary enclosure shall have
openings on two sides for ventilation so
as to ensure adequate circulation of air-
at" all times. The ventilation openings on
each wall shall be at least 16% of the
total surface area of the wall and be
positioned so as to decrease the

likelihood of creating a draft. At least a .

of the openings shall be close to the
floor so that the bird can see its food.

(b) Perches-shall be provided forsuch-
wild birds that rest by perching. The
diameter of the perch shall be large
enough to permit the bird to maintain a
firm. comfortable grip. Perches should be

placed so that droppings do not fall into .

food or water troughs. There shall be .
enough head room to allow the bird to.
move on and off the perch without
touching the top of the primary

enclosure and without permitting the tail,

feathers to be damaged.
(0) Primary enclosures used to

, transport live wild raptorial birds shall

be la ge enough to transport one bird

. comfortably and permit it to turn around

freely and stretch its wings without ~

injury. Onlyone wild raptorial bird shall

be contained 111 each primary enclosure.
(d) Live wild birds that are

- , incompatible shall notbe stored or .1

transported in visual proximity to each
other to reduce stress on the birds.

§ 1.4.193 Terminal £84:le

The ambient air temperature arcand
any live wild rap-torial bird in any
mammal or bird holding area,"
transporting device. or primary

' conveyance shall not be allowed to fall .

below 7 2 degrees C (45 degrees F) nor
be allowed to exceed 29. 5 degrees C (85
degrees F) at any time No live wild
raptorial bird shall be subjected to -»
surrounding air temperatures that

exceed 23.9 degrees C £75 degrees F} for V

more than 4 hours at any time. Auxiliary:
ventilation. such as exhaust fans, vents.
fans, blowers or air conditioning shall
be used to reduce the ambient air
temperature when the air temperature
within such mammal orhird holding

area is 23. gdegrees C {25 degrees 17):}: -
., gingher , . , j; _
314.194 Handling. -.

ta) 31191181»er swillght‘ ondheat
overheating and discomfort, sufficrent

{is} Shelterf mm cold weather.
Transporting hevices shall be covered ,
and heated to. provideprctection for live

raptorial birds when the outdoor air
temperature falls below 10 degrees C (50
degrees F) .. , . .

Specifications for the Humans and
Healthful Transport or Water Birds and
All Other Birds "

-§ 14. 201 Wales to carrier to!

transport

(a) In addition to the following mere
definitive requirements. all appropriate .
conditions of § 14. 105-14 112 must also
be satisﬁed.

(b) Personally owned pet birds that
originated in the United States and are
being returned to this country within 60
days of departure with their United
States health certiﬁcates do not require
a new veterinary examination to order
to be accepted by the carrier to: ‘
transport to the United States. ~

(0) No carrier shallaccept any live 2
wild bird for transport to'theﬂnit‘ed r
States that has beeocapturedin the
wild unless a qualiﬁed veterinarian-
euthorized by the nationm government -
of. the countrylrdmwbich tin bird is .
being exported certiﬁes that the bird has .
been subjected to a holding and ' -

. conditioning period of at least 14 days. .

Certification to this effect shall be
included in the health certiﬁcate issued
by the examining. veterinarian.

§ 14.202 Primary m used to ,
transpbrt this water birds nodal! other ,_
birds. ' '

(a) Primary coolesures shall have
openings on two sides for ventilation so ,
as to ensure adequate circulation of air
at all times. The ventilation openings on
each well shall be at least .16 percent of
the total surface area of the wall and be
positioned so as to decrease the .-
likelihood of creating a draft.

(b) The primary ecclesure fur. ,.
transport of water birds and all other
birds shall be large enough for the bu ds
to turn around to lie down and to s'and

(cl Live Wild birds transported m the
same primary enclosure shall be of the;

I ‘ same speciessnd maintained in

0mm!“ W Birds that are 1.-
incmnpaﬁbleshaﬁ be trauma; m
dem3 primary unclean-es and these

' .T—T enclosures should not be stored or
transportedwithm visual eight of each:
. shade shall be provided to protect a 11111;; ‘
'raptorial bird from 1113' uriuriOus direct . g g
_ rays of the sun. Such has raptmial bird 1-21“ x i:
shall no: be subjected to sur'romding air“. ' .
;, temperatures that exceed 2651' degrees C
(80 degreesFlforapenod dimers-trims 1.

other to ram stares on theblrds being

Except {0f peagliiml and aukofthe

ambientmempsmmamdmykve“ N ':

w1ld bird in my motel orbmd holding

 




 

1;..«Federal Register -/-;Vol 52 No. 217 I Tuesday. November 10

1987 I Rules and Regulations

 

area. transporting dev1ce. or primary
7 _~ conveyance shall not be allowed to fall _. j
- .;below 7.2 degrees C [45 degrees F) nor VV VV

degrees F) at any time Birds other than

V' penguins and auks 31111111161111:

subjected to air temperatures that

23 9 degrees C (75 degrees F) for wild
birds. auxiliary ventilation, such as .
exhaust fans. vents, fans. blowers or air
conditioning shall be used to reduce the

V ‘IC (60 degrees F) or below for penguins-
and auks and to 23.9 degrees C [75
degrees F) or below for wild birds

Vii-be allowed to exceed 29.5 degrees C (85V VV"
, M4. 204 Handling.

(a) Shelter from sunlight and heat.

When sunlight is likely to cause
exceed 18 3 degrees C [65 degrees F) for "
more than 4 hours at a time. When the r _‘ ‘
_ air temperature exceeds 15. 6 degrees C

(60 degrees F) fOr penguins and suks and

overheating and discomfort sufficient

shade shall be provided to protect a live
V water bird or all other birds from the
‘directrays of, the sun. Penguins and
.auks shall not be subjected to ..V

,_ surrounding air temperatures that

exceed 18. 3 degrees C [65 degrees F) at

. any time
ambient air temperature to 15. 6 degrees x -

(b) Shelter from ceId weather. "V 5.

; Transporting devices shall be coVered __ _. .
' and heated to provide protection for live ‘ ., r
(1 , water birds and all other birds when the
outdoor air temperature falls below 10. 0’ -' IL
' degrees C (50 degrees F) Penguins and ‘ 1
.1 ‘auks may be SubjeCted to air .g ;_
' temperatures which fall below 7. 2V 15,1, , ‘2.
degrees C (45 degrees F ) ‘

Date: September 22. 1987.
Susan Recce. 'V ° '

Acting AsSVistaniVV SecretVary for FisIr and
Wildlife and Parks. '

‘ 1111 Doc. 37-25931 Filed 11-11-87 a: 45 am)
.aiLuVuc coo: 43111-5543 '

 

.. _ . .1
'_ ‘ T 5‘ 3'.
V » , 5,2:
' f< 5 <4
1 5?”. .7‘ 1'

..- , , 1“

r

t
’7 f1

1




COMMITTEE ON SCIENCE, SPACE, AND TECHNOLOGY
U. S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20515
June 22, 1988

SUBCOMMITTEE ON NATURAL RESOURCES, AGRICULTURE RESEARCH
AND ENVIRONMENT
Hearing on
TECHNOLOGIES FOR CONSERVING SPECIES: SAVING THE ENDANGERED RHINOCEROS

EANEL.1

Dr. Thomas J. Schneider, Chairman
Mr. RoberT M. Schule, Truslee
Rhino Rescue USA

EANEL.Z

Dr. David Weslern, Chairman
IUCN African Elephanl and Rhino Specialisl Group
Acling Direc+or, Wildlife Conserva+ion Inleranlional

Dr. Esmond Bradley Marlin

EANEL.§

Dr. Willie Nduku, Direcfor
Deparlmenl of Nalional Parks and Wildlife Managemenl
Zimbabwe

EANEL.&

Dr. Oliver A. Ryder
Cenler for Reproduclion of Endangered Species
San Diego Zoo

Dr. Thomas J. Foose
Conservalion Coordinalor
American Associa+ion of Zoological Parks and Aquariums

Dr. Eric DinersTein
Visiling ScienTisT
Smilhsonian Inslifuiion
Mr. Tony Dyer
EANEL.§

Mr. Brian Carey
Armslrong Tire Company

 




STATEMENT OF
THOMAS J. FOOSE, PH.D.
on behalf of

AMERICAN ASSOCIATION OF ZOOLOGICAL PARKS AND AQUARIUMS

for the

HEARING ON
THE ENDANGERED RHINOCEROS

before the

SUBCOMMITTEE ON NATURAL RESOURCES,
AGRICULTURE RESEARCH AND ENVIRONMENT

of the
COMMITTEE ON SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY
of the

UNITED STATES HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

22 JULY 1988

My name is Thomas J. Foose. I am the Conservation Coordinator for the
American Association of Zoological Parks and Aquariums (AAZPA). As such my
primary responsibilities are the cOordination of the captive propagation
programs for endangered species, including rhinos, in zoos and aquariums in
the United States and Canada. I am also a member of both the Asian Rhino
Specialist Group and the African Elephant and Rhino Specialist Group of the
Species Survival Commission (SSC) of the International Union for Conservation
of Nature and Natural Resources (IUCN).

OF IOOLOOICAL

American Association of Zoological Parks and Aquariums

AMERICAN ASSOCIATION
SIMIVHOV ("4' 3X8"!

A'A'Z'P'A 192‘

 




VIABLE STRATEGIES FOR CONSERVATION 0F RHINOS
Introduction

The 5 extant species of rhinoceros provide spectacular examples of the
rapid and accelerating disappearance of wildlife being engulfed by a flood of
destruction on our planet. The immediate causes of this endangerment and
extinction of wildlife are habitat destruction and unsustainable exploitation.
In the case of the rhinos, the second cause, in the form of decimation by
poachers, is the primary problem. Rhinos, like so many of the
megavertebrates, are species that actually vanish well before their habitat
disappears. To preserve the species of rhino, it is obviously necessary to

protect them from poacher activity and habitat destruction.

However, while such protection is necessary, it is not sufficient. It is
no longer enough to protect rhinos and their habitat. Surviving rhino
populations must also be managed if they are to survive over the long-term.
The reason is yet a third threat to survival of the 5 rhino species. This

threat is the problems of small populations.
Viable Populations for Rhinos

Small populations, even if well protected, are vulnerable 'to a number of
environmental, demographic, and genetic problems that can imperil their
survival especially over the longer-term, i.e., the next several centuries
(Figure 1). These problems are random or stochastic in nature. Hence, they
are impossible to predict. However, there are remedial measures possible
through management. The problems of small populations apply to species in
both the wild and in captivity, although much of the management methodology is

being developed in zoos.

Genetically, small populations lose genetic diversity at a rapid rate. All

species appear to possess some amount of genetic diversity, known as their
gene pool. Genetic diversity is important for species at both the population

level and the individual level. At the population level, genetic diversity is

2

 




vital to permit species to adapt to continually Changing environments (E.g.,

the appearance of a new disease). At the individual level, genetic diversity
is necessary to maintain fitness or vigor, i.e. the ability to survive and
reproduce adequately under existing environmental conditions. When
populations are reduced to very low numbers (a few tens or hundreds), their
gene pools are converted into gene puddles (Figure 2). Sooner or later, there
is scientific reason to expect that this loss of genetic diversity can and

will jeopardize the survival of the species.

There are also problems of demographic and environmental uncertainty.
Demographically, small populations are at risk because of such factors as
random failures in birth or survival rates, distorted sex ratios, or unstable
age structures. As an example, consider sex ratios. In larger populations and
over long periods of time in the wild, sex ratios at birth will frequently be
even (i.e., equal numbers of males and females) or at least will represent
some average that has evolved as adaptive for the species. However, in very
small populations, these averages may not be realized and sex ratios can
become disastrously biased, i.e. predominantly or exclusively all males or
females to the point where reproduction is seriously, often lethally

disrupted.

Environmentally, small populations are especially susceptible to extinction
because of natural disasters, climatic cataclysms, and epidemic disease. The
reality of such catastrophes is well exemplified by the two epidemics that
recently and rapidly decimated the last known wild population of black-footed
ferrets. First, an outbreak of sylvatic plague devastated their prey
population (prairie dogs) while the coup de grace was delivered to the ferrets
themselves by canine distemper. Until their sudden devastation by these two
disease epidemics, many wildlife managers considered this population secure
because it was "large" (in their opinion) and growing, despite admonitions
from conservation biologists that the situation was flirting with disaster. A
similar, but fortunately, so far, less devastating epidemic has already

afflicted the last definitely known population of Javan rhino in Indonesia.

All of these problems are a function of population size. The smaller the

population, the greater the problem. As a consequence, conservation

3

 




strategies for species that are reduced in number, and most probably‘will

remain that way for a long time, must be based on maintaining certain minimum
viable populations (MVP’s), i.e. large enough to be viable in terms of the

genetic, demographic and environmental problems.

There is no single magic number that constitutes an MVP for all species, or
for any one species all the time. MVP’s depend on the genetic and demographic
objectives of the conservation program and biological characteristics of the
species and its environment. It is possible to perform population viability
analyses (PVA’s) to prescribe how large a population might be required for any
species under any particular circumstances. One generalization seems
possible. Species like the rhinos will almost certainly need effective
population sizes of several hundreds or perhaps thousands to be viable.
Indeed, there has already been some attempt to perform population viability
analysis for rhino species in both Asia and Africa. A preliminary
recommendation is that each distinct kind of rhino may need an effective

population size of 500.

However, the effective size of a population is not the same as the actual
number of animals. Instead, the (genetically) effective size is a measure of
how the members of the population reproduce with one another to transmit their
genes to future generations. Normally, the effective population size, denoted
by Ne, is much smaller than the total number of animals. Such normal
occurrences as failure of some/many animals to reproduce, disparities in
lifetime production of offspring (lifetime family sizes) or biases in the sex
ratio of breeding animals will depress Ne well below the census number. For
example, Ne may be as low as 10 to 25% of the total population number. Thus,
a recommended Ne of 500 to provide genetic and demographic viability for each
distinct kind of rhino may require that a population of at least two or more
thousands actually be maintained. It is also important to realize the MVP’s
are just that, the minimum that is scientifically recommended as necessary for
long—term survival under the best information available- More is always

better and safer.

A survey of the estimated numbers surviving in the wild for each of the 5
species of rhino suggests that none may be at acceptable MVP levels (Table l).
4

 




The situation is even worse if it is the case that within these species there

are subspecies that are different enough to justify preservation as separate
entities. For example, there has been reason to recognize at least 4
different geographical varieties (i.e., "subspecies") of black rhino that
should be preserved separately. (There actually have been 7 subspecies
described.) Extending the logic developed earlier, i.e. that an Ne of 500 may
be required and that 2000 rhinos may actually be needed to achieve this
genetically effective size, it is simple arithmetic to calculate that 8000
black rhino may be necessary to preserve viable populations of all 4
geographic varieties. This number of 8000 is over twice the estimated number
that survive on the entire continent of Africa. The conclusion is that a
viable strategy for conservation of the black rhino will. entail not only
arresting the decline in number but also provide for expanding populations to

at least twice their present levels as soon as possible.

It will be difficult or impossible for any of the rhino species to maintain
single, contiguous populations of 2000 or more. However, it is possible for
smaller populations and sanctuaries to be viable if they are managed in such a
way to constitute what is known as a metapopulation, whose collective size is
equivalent to the MVP. This kind of management will entail periodic movement
of rhinos from one small separate "subpopulation" to another to correct
genetic or demographic problems (Figure 3). Viability analyses can provide
guidelines on the number, size, and interaction of the separate subpopulations
that are being managed collectively and interactively to constitute the

metapopulation.

One result of note from some preliminary analyses is that a viable number
for each separate subpopulation of rhino should perhaps be at least 100
animals. However, this recommendation does not necessarily refer to the
actual number of rhinos existing in some defined area, e.g. a sanctuary, of
the natural range of the species now. Instead, this guideline for an MVP for
a subpopulation represents a minimum number that the area or sanctuary must be
able to sustain if the rhinos can be protected and hence permitted to grow to

the carrying capacity of the habitat.

 




It must be reiterated that the numbers for viable rhino populations are
preliminary and should not be interpreted as definitive prescriptions. Much
more population viability analysis is needed to provide the foundation and
framework for rhino conservation strategies. However, it seems unlikely that
the numbers suggested above for viability will be any lower after further

analyses.

It is also worthwhile to observe that sustaining MVP’s for rhino in the
wild also implies maintaining minimum critical areas of natural habitat that
can and will accommodate many other species. Megavertebrates like the rhino
are both flagship and umbrella species for conservation of many other kinds of

wildlife. This function should ameliorate, in part, .the concern that

investing so much money for the preservation of a few megavertebrates like the

rhinos is unjustified while the greater number, and perhaps more important but

less charismatic, species may be neglected.

A Conservation Strategy for Rhinos Based on Viable Populations

These population biology considerations in conjunction with the acuteness
of the crisis for rhinoceros species suggests a conservation strategy for

rhinos that consists of 2 major components.

(1) Intensive management and protection of viable populations in the wild.

In other words, concentrate field efforts, and available resources, on
those wild populations that are large and/or protectable enough to be
viable for the long—term. Based on the discussion in the previous
section, this goal would translate into trying to secure enough
subpopulations, normally of at least 100 rhinos each, to produce a
metapopulation at least equivalent to the MVP recommended for the

species.

This kind of strategy has been adopted for conservation of the

Sumatran rhino by the IUCN Asian Rhino Specialist Group under Chairman

Mohd. Khan of Malaysia. Although, the estimated 900 Sumatran rhinos
6

 




are widely distributed over much of Southeast Asia, 5 main sanctuaries
and populations, each capable of accommodating 100 or more rhino for a
total of 2000, have been recognized as viable in terms of priorities

for allocation of resources and effort on the species in the wild.

The African Elephant and Rhino Specialist Group has also developed

priorities for conservation efforts based in large part on population

viability considerations.

The priorities developed by these IUCN Rhino Specialist Groups are the
best guidelines to direct support provided from the United States to

countries of origin for rhino conservation.

Population viability lconsiderations also emphasize the importance of
national, or better regional and continental, strategies and programs
for rhino conservation. Again, both the Asian and African Rhino

Specialist Groups have proposed and delineated such strategies.
Captive propagation to reinforce wild populations.

Animals that are located outside the viable populations and
sanctuaries can be employed for captive propagation or careful
translocation into larger or securer areas. Such animals have been
designated "doomed" in the Sumatran Rhino Conservation Strategy. A
rhino is doomed if it cannot contribute to the long-term survival of
the species, because it cannot be protected from poachers and/or it is
not part of a population large enough to be viable genetically or
demographically. (Often, there isn’t even another rhino of the

opposite sex around for breeding.)

The Role of Captive Propagation

Captive propagation can and must contribute to the conservation strategies
for rhinos. There are a number of advantages to captivity: animals can be
protected from poachers; environmental problems can be moderated; there can be

7

 




more genetic management, specifically the Ne of any given number of animals

can be maximized.

In North America, the AAZPA has accorded captive propagation of rhino
species it highest priority. Four of the 40 species in our formally organized
programs, known as Species Survival Plans (SSP’s), are rhinos. The 5th
species, the Javan, is expected to be added soon. Indeed, the rhino has been

adopted as the official logo of the SSP (Figure 4).

Existing SSP programs for the black, white, and Indian rhino are
progressing with all species reproducing in North American zoos. It is the
objective and the hope that some Sumatran rhinos will soon arrive in North
America through cooperative programs with Indonesia and Malaysia to rescue
"doomed" rhino in those countries. All SSP programs are organized to
intensively manage the captive populations genetically and demographically to

maximize preservation of the gene pool.

It should be mentioned that zoos in other parts of the world are also
organizing SSP programs for rhinos. The importance of international captive
programs can be appreciated again through MVP considerations. Currently, there
are about 250 rhinos of 3 species in North American zoos; about 700 of 4
species in zoos worldwide (Table 2). These numbers are considerably below the
MVP objectives for captive programs that have been established through
appropriate population viability analyses (Table 3). More space and
resources, i.e. money, are required if zoo programs are going to be able to

fulfill their function in rhino conservation strategies.

In this regard, the suggestion by Congressman Scheuer during the first
Congressional Hearing on Rhino Conservation is most interesting. There would
be great value in trying to establish some large rhino propagation centers in
the United States in areas similar to the natural habitats of these species.
There has already been some interest and activity in this possibility for
black rhino on the part of some ranchers for black rhino. However, to really
contribute to global strategies it would be important that such developments
(1) be part of. the captive propagation programs already in progress, (2) be
administered in such a way as to insure perpetuation of the facility beyond

8

 




the lifetimes and changing interests of private owners, (3) not be an

encroachment or endangerment on areas reserved for conservation of endemic
American species. Such developments would also require, or at least be
greatly facilitated by, additional funds or resources not now available to the

captive programs.

The World as a Megazoo

It must be emphasized that the purpose of captive propagation is to
reinforce, not replace, wild populations of rhino, i.e. populations of rhinos
surviving in natural habitats within their historic rangez In other words,
zoos must serve as reservoirs of both genetic and demographic material that
can periodically be transfused into natural habitats to re-establish species
that have been extirpated or to revitalize populations that have been

debilitated by genetic, demographic, or environmental problems.

Indeed, what appears optimal and inevitable are conservation strategies for
the rhino species incorporating both captive and wild populations that are
interactively managed for mutual support and survival (Figure 5). This type
of strategy is already being developed for the Sumatran rhino and attempts are

in progress to develop similar programs for the black rhino.

The concept of interacting captive and wild populations accentuates another
point. Zoos are becoming larger and more naturalistic. Sanctuaries in the
wild are becoming smaller and more artificial, becoming, in essence, megazoos.
The same kinds of intensive management in genetic and demographic terms will
need to be applied to both kinds of places where rhinos are being preserved.
Another way zoos can contribute to conservation of rhinos is by transfer of
this intensive-management, i.e. captive*type, technology to wildlife managers
in Africa and Asia. A start in this direction was generated out of the
African Rhino Workshop conducted in Cincinnati in 1986. ‘Attempts are now in
progress to organize small population biology worksh0ps in Africa, and the

semblance of one has actually occurred in Malaysia.

 




One more area where zoos can contribute is in research applicable to

conservation of rhinos. Some research of note includes: nutrition, where
vitamin E deficiencies are being elucidated; disease, where a strange
hemolytic anemia syndrome afflicting wild as well as captive black rhino is
being investigated; and reproductive technology, where development of
artificial insemination and embryo transfer techniques could greatly
facilitate management of rhino in the wild as well as captivity and especially
in interactions between the two (Figure 5). The SSP has recently organized a
comprehensive and coordinated program of research in these areas on rhinos and
is recruiting a researcher whose sole responsibility will be to coordinate the
various projects. However, this kind of activity is expensive and often
difficult or impossible for zoos to support out of their own budgets.
Exacerbating the problem is the difficulty of securing research support from
funding agencies, such as the National Science Foundation, for projects that

are primarily conservation.

Mobilizing the Home Front for the Rhino War Effort

Finally, this hearing is testimony to the fact that there are many
organizations, agencies, institutions, and individuals interested in rhino
conservation. But resources are still limited. Moreover, the crisis for
rhino survival is intensifying. It is time for the most effective and
efficient action possible. The kind of global strategy delineated above is

intended to respond to this need.

It is also time for better mobilization of the home front for rhino war
effort. There would, in my opinion, be great benefit in organizing a
coalition of those parties in North America interested and involved in rhino
conservation so they could at least communicate and perhaps coordinate. It is
my intention, perhaps using this Hearing as a focal point if permissible, to
circulate a letter inviting all public and private organizations, agencies,
institutions, and individuals that are to my knowledge interested and involved
in rhino conservation to form such a coalition or network. It is my hope that
such a coalition might be guided to a great extent by the strategies and
priorities formulated by the IUCN Rhino Specialist Groups.

10

 




Figure l

DECLINE OF GENETIC DIVERSITY FOR VARIOUS
EFFECTIVE POPULATION SIZES (Ne) ‘

POSSIBLE FOR A TOTAL POPULATION (N) OF 250

 

 

 

 

 

      
        

 

 

>- 100 ~ “ - ¢ - . .
t: \N L Ne=5oo
- ~\\~ -
$2 \\\ Ne“ 250
Lu
0 75 -
2 Q
E :1 \ Loss of Genes—'4‘?“ [49:50
11.! U5 . . ..
(5 LIJ .4
u. (I) 50
LU
O (r: Demographic and Environmental N _ 25
‘3 ‘3' Stoohaatioity e“
< _ major danger to survival
5 25 for population sizes
(“3 below 50 animals
a:
Lu
Q.
r i l T i I . x I I I 7
O1 10 15 2O 3O 50

GENERATIONS

 

 




Figure 2

GENE POOL GENEPUDDLE

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




Figure 3.
MANAGED MIGRATION AMONG POPULATIONS 0F RHINO§

 

 

 




SPECIES SURVIVAL PLAN

Many endangered animals in our care may soon be extinct
in the wild. Captive breeding programs may be their only
hope for survival.

When you see this symbol at an exhibit, you know our
staff is cooperating with zoos and aquariums throughout
North America to breed and manage these animals. Species
Survival Plans, coordinated by the American Association of
Zoological Parks and Aquariums, are attempting to maintain
as many different bloodlines as possible, with a mix of
ages and sexes, to ensure healthy, vigorous animals to
breed now and in the future.

If and when the world's natural habitats can be secured or
restored, descendants of these animals will repopulate the
wild.

(For smaller sign):

We are making a special effort to save this highly
endangered species in cooperation with the American
Association of Zoological Parks and Aquariums. .' ,

 




”$9.36 M

ﬁ?mvﬁm<mﬁ<

>Z_§>rm

3w (EN

 

\.- .é/WWV ..

A E VS a f ; _.
,3, m: ,3. ‘ mvmm:
5/. Z J N

 




Table 1

RHINOS IN THE WILD

SPECIES NUMBER

Black 3500
White 3500
Indian 2000
Sumatran

Javan

Total

 




{a Table 2

RHINOS IN CAPTIVITY

 

SPECIES NORTH AMERICAN 88? W
Black 69 150
White 143 450
Indian 33 90
Sumatran 0 l4
Javan __Q _.Q

Total 245 704

 




'Tziblca‘3

CAPTIVE MVP OBJECTIVES FOR RHINO

SPECIES EQRTH AMERICA WORLD

 

Black 150 300
White 100~150 200-300
Indian 75 150
Sumatran 75 150

Javan ‘15 1 0

.- _——0

Total 475~525 950-1050

 




CCC

REPORT

“For all at last returns to the sea—the beginning and the end.” Rachel Carson

February 1988
Vol. 6, No. 1

1987 Texas Coastal Cleanup Largest in Country

More than 7,000 Beach Budr
dies participated in CEE’S Texas
Coastal Cleanup on September 19.
The cleanup was cosponsored by
the Adopt/arBeach program of the
Texas General Land Ofﬁce. Voluna
teers collected more than 300 tons
of trash during the three’hour
cleanup of 157 miles of beach.

CEE volunteer zone captains
and Adoptva~Beach county coordiv
nators did a tremendous job of or’
ganizing cleanups at sites from the
tip of Texas near Mexico to Sea
Rim State Park near the Louisiana
state line.

Beach Buddies from all over
the state arrived at signvin points
at 9 a.m., where they were given
garbage bags, pencils, data cards,
and beach assignments. At some
zones more than 1,000 people are
rived to help. Volunteers traveled
by school bus, van, car, camper,

 

 

I Can’t Believe I.
Found it at the Beach  

Many cleanup volunteers .
listed the most unusual item
they had found that day.
Here is just a sample:

0 toilet seat

0 rubber gloves

0 couch

0 toothbrush

0 car door , .

0 mattress 7 0

. milk carton from England

0 trash from Russia, Japan, ,-
Mexico, Ireland, Chile, '

Brazil

 

 

The cleanup was an opportunity for families to work together, Cleaning the beach and learning
about marine debris and the problems it causes. Photo: Sue Barnett/CEE

and even airplane. One CEE sup,
porter ﬂew from Dallas to Corpus
Christi to join in the work and
fun. Three buses of high school
students left Austin at 4 am. to
reach the coast in time for the
cleanup.

As in last year’s cleanup, volv
unteers were asked to complete
CEE data cards about the kinds
and amounts of trash they found.
The 1987 data cards included a
few new items including syringes,
diapers, and tampon applicators.
Unfortunately, those spaces on the
cards ﬁlled up quickly, as volun’
teers recorded 930 syringes, 1,914
diapers, and 1,040 tampon applicar
tors. The number one item found
was plastic bags, more than double
the amount recorded last year,
with a statewide total of over
31,000 bags. Plastic bottles came

in second with 30,295 items re,
corded. Volunteers did an excelr
lent job of completing the cards,
providing useful information to be
used in CEE’s report on the
cleanup and our analysis of marine
debris.

Special rope debris studies
were conducted by National Mav
rine Fisheries Service employees,
the Beta Beta Beta honor biology
club from Lamar University, and
Corpus Christi Community College
students.

The support from citizens, '
elected officials, corporations,
foundations, local businesses, and
government agencies for this public
awareness campaign has been overv
whelming. To name but a few: the
Rockwell Fund, the LB] Family
Foundation, the Trull Foundation,

(continued on page 17)

 

 

 




 

From the President

Several months ago a friend of
mine, a biologist with the US.
Fish and Wildlife Service, and I
took his small sailboat for a week4
long trip to explore the Chesa4
peake Bay. A relaxing, though of4
ten exhilarating sail brought us
into close contact with many of
the wildlife species that inhabit the
bay and with the changes humans
are making on this world famous
estuary.

Of all the memories I hold
from that trip, none is more pre4
cious than an incident that oc4
curred on a warm afternoon when
we were running with a southerly

 

February 1988 Vol 6 No 1
Published by te r
Center for Envrronmental
' Educatlon ' '

 
  

Presrdent Roger-E ,Mcrggvéanus

 

Ed1tor Rose Bierce . .7 _
1 WrIters Natasffa"Atk1ns
' .. . . .,.-.-;.g Donna Brass
‘ Amie Braungam
._.' ‘Sus1e G Criswell
” 'i Marydele Donnelly
V..,_'Suzanne Iud1cello 4
" ; ' ,_' : Lee Hallman
’ Lmda Maraniss j -'
Roger E McManus
, 1'5“} Kathy O’Hara ’ 4 1 ‘
l _. 4' Jun Serﬁs
4 ,‘Andrea Shotkm
,M1chael Weber .. ,5-‘1

CEE Report is published by the

Center for Env1ronmental Edu4 -> "

cation, 1725 DeSales Street,

NW Washington, DC 20036.

', ~ (.202) 4294 5609 The Center is a ' ,
1 not4for4proﬁt envrronmental or4
ganization ded1cated to the com , - a

‘ servation of marine species and
their habitats. Major programs of , i
y the Center are the Whale Pro4 * ‘
tection Fund, the Seal Rescue '
Fund, the Sea Turtle Rescue
Fund, and the Marine Habitat ,

, Program The CEE Report is '

, sent free of charge to CEE .mem4.
‘ bets and any other interesred ,

‘ parties. InfOrmation may be re- p

» printed withoUt perm1sswn if

 

 

 

’ appropriate credit is given

 

 

CEE REPORT 2

breeze in the lower bay. Virtually
out of sight of land our little world
was invaded by a lost goldﬁnch
who was clearly at a state of ex4
haustion.

The small bird circled our
boat, scared to land but too tired
to go on. Finally he had to take
the chance and landed on port
stay. For a brief period this new4
comer was the object of our in4
tense observation. Sometime later,
after we turned to the tasks at
hand, we heard a loud chirp and
looked up to see our new sailing
companion heading off toward land
with a deﬁnitely stronger wing
beat.

Goldﬁnches are not in immi4
nent danger of extinction and in
the scheme of things if that indi4
vidual had not found us and had
drowned in the bay the world
would not have noticed. Still, his
continued survival was of great im4
portance to him, and the opportu4
nity for us to offer a lift brought us
great satisfaction. ‘

Each day at CEE our staff face
numbing problems of entire species
faced with complete extinction.
While we frequently speak in ab4
stract terms of species and re4
sources, it is in the individual that
each of us ﬁnds meaning.

Working for CEE we ﬁnd that
we can use the nobler human attri4
butes, such as compassion and re4
sponsibility, to counter those of
greed and ignorance. We welcome
our members on this quest; it is a
mission in which we hope you too
ﬁnd great meaning.

There are a number of ways
you can become involved in CEE’s
work described in this issue of the
CEE Report, from writing letters to
members of Congress and others to
maintaining your membership and
ﬁnancial support. Perhaps you can
join us at our next beach cleanup,
or help us write a policy report like
Jens Deichmann did last year.

Please give these suggestions
some thought, and act on those
that you are able. Thank you.

—Roger B. McManus

Book Review

The Animal Smugglers by John Ni4
chol. A book about the wildlife
business, John Nichol begins in
The Animal Smugglers, is a difﬁcult
thing to write because so many of
the issues interweave and thus defy
systematic presentation. As a re4
sult, he admits to digressing a great
deal from the somewhat artiﬁcial
order he has tried to impose.

But Nichol’s is a captivating
digression. His many years of
travel, natural history research and
ﬁlming, and animal collecting have
given him a wealth of knowledge
about wildlife and its commerce,
and the personal contacts to allow
for an intimate narrative of the
people, methods, and motives be4
hind the world’s wildlife consump4
tion.

Nichol’s account of his experi4
ences is a must for anyone inter4
ested in wildlife. Its conversa4
tional, rambling style was not in4
tended for technicians, yet it offers
them a valuable insight into wild4
life commerce. For others it offers
a gruesome yet fascinating portrait
of corrupt and naive government
ofﬁcials and different cultural atti4
tudes and practices, which serve to
remind us that despite numerous
laws and programs to conserve en4
dangered wildlife the butchery and
waste continue, much of it com4
pletely legally, through bureau4
cratic and other means.

Yet, this book is a pleasure to
read. A grisly adventure into a
cruel world, it offers a compelling
glimpse of the odds against which
wildlife must struggle to survive
and reminds us of the increased ef4
forts we all must make to educate
ourselves and others about the
deadly effects of our consumptive
habits.

Available from Facts on File
Publishers, New York. $23. 95.

—-—Amie Brautigam
The Animal Smugglers is the com4
panion book to a three 4part documen4
tary on Nichol s investigation of the
wildlife trade, to be aired in January
1988 on TBS as part of National

Geographic s “Explorer” televzsion se4
ries.

February 1988

 

 




 

Opposition Tries Last Ditch Measures to Defeat
Turtle Excluder Devices

Even though the federal reguv
lations requiring shrimp ﬁshermen
to use Turtle Excluder Devices
(TEDs) went into effect last Octo—
ber (see CEE Report, Vol. 5, No.
3), some shrimpers and their
friends in government are still
trying to overturn them, through
judicial and Congressional action.

In the House of Representaa
tives, Congressmen Solomon Ortiz
(D’TX), Billy Tauzin (D—LA),
Jack Fields (DeTX), and Earl

Hutto (DvFL) tried to delay the re

quired use of TEDs in offshore
areas for two years by amending
the Endangered Species Act
(ESA). Their attempt was rebuffed
by the full House Merchant Mae
rine and Fisheries Committee,
many of whose members had re;
ceived letters from CEE members
urging them to hold ﬁrm to sea
turtle protection. Special thanks
are due to Representatives Clau'
dine Schneider (RM) and Gerry
Studds (D’MA) who eloquently
countered the emotional rhetoric
of the four proponents of the de

lay, and to Chairman Walter Jones
(D—NC) and Ranking Minority
Member Robert Davis (R»MI) for
their leadership on the committee.

The committee did approve
an amendment that delays imple’
mentation of the regulations in
bays and sounds for two years. As
it was, the regulations required
ﬁshermen in such inshore areas to
restrict their tOW’timeS to less than
90 minutes or to use TEDs. It is
thought that most ﬁshermen in
these areas tow no longer than 90
minutes anyway. This amendment,
which affects about 70 percent of
all shrimp ﬁshermen from North
Carolina to Texas, calls upon the
National Marine Fisheries Service
to gather additional information on
sea turtles in inshore areas and to
develop TEDs speciﬁcally for such
areas. (More on the ESA reauthor’
ization below.)

On another front, the Attor’
ney General of Louisiana ﬁled a
lawsuit in federal district court
seeking to overturn the TED reguv
lations. CEE and the Environmenr

 

Summary of Final
TED Rules

MS

TX

3/1 /88:

MX

 

  
 
  
 

March through November

NC
5/1 /88:
May through
SC August
GA
—

1/1/87: All year
—

5/1/882
May
_ through

All year

 

 

February 1988

  

tal Defense Fund have intervened
in this case on the side of the fed
eral government.

As of January 1, 1988 shrimp
ﬁshermen off southwestern Florida
are required to use TEDs when
ﬁshing within 15 miles of land. Ber
ginning March 1, shrimp ﬁshermen
in other areas of the Gulf of Mex’
ico will be rquired to use TEDs
within 15 miles of land. And be'
ginning May 1, shrimp ﬁshermen
from North Carolina through the
Atlantic coast of Florida will be re
quired to use TEDs in all offshore
areas (see map below).

If you would like a copy of
the complete TED regulations,
write to me at CEE’s Washington,
DC address.

——Michael Weber
Michael is CEE’s Vice President for
Programs and was instrumental in
getting the federal TED regulations in
place.

 

’ l

ndangered Specres

 
   
 

pecies Act'fet ﬁve . ,

 

 
  
  
  
  

e en efleadership

ant to bring
a vote due to 0p ~.
few Senators on
uch 'asjgiwolf and bear '
: auntmg, andfidam construe ~ "l
i’.{;.'-a?§-;,}tlon in the West As a result, ,
3 -..}.:,,the reauthorizatlon of the ‘

 
 

 

 

 

is now two years over’
due We urge our members to} ‘ '
”'i'iiisfm1te to their Senators asking --
75*”:9’them to tnove S 675 to a

 

 

ﬂ11-.~_:}:,}7”"vote by the end of February ‘-
1988 at the latest See p 19
for details ' , ,,

 

 

CEE REPORT 3

 




 

 

 

 

U.S. Softens Stand on Research Whaling—Again

Whale conservation was dealt
another sharp blow in September
when the United States and Ice
land negotiated a special agree,
ment concerning Iceland’s research
whaling.

Iceland agreed to abide by the
moratorium on commercial whalv
ing, but has continued to kill
whales under a loophole that alv
lows for scientiﬁc research. How—
ever, most of the meat from the
whales killed in the name of scir
ence has been sold to Japan.

Last summer conservationists
sucessfully pressed the Interna—
tional Whaling Commission
(IWC) to adopt a resolution that
would put a halt to such 30rcalled
“research whaling” (see CEE Ree
port, Vol. 5 No. 3).

Under the terms of the IWC

resolution, research whaling pro,

grams must conform to criteria pre
scribed by the IWC. After careful
review of Iceland’s program, the
IWC found that it did not meet
the IWC’s research whaling re;
quirements, and the commission
called on the Icelandic government
to revoke the research permit.

Under US. law, embargoes
on ﬁsh imports may be imposed on
countries that fail to comply with
the IWC conservation program.
The US. Commissioner to the
IWC was largely responsible for
the passage of the IWC resolu~
tions, considered necessary to jUSr
tify imposing sanctions for research
whaling, so sanctions seemed
likely.

However, according .to the re
cent bilateral agreement, the US.
promised not to seek sanctions for

whales killed in 1987. For 1988

and beyond, Iceland has agreed to
“carry out the scientiﬁc recommen—
dations” of the IWC Scientiﬁc
Committee. A more ambiguous
point in the pact is the US. comv
mitment to “review and make rec»
ommendations” regarding the
Committee’s process for reviewing
research permits.

It is not clear why the US.
government has been so lenient
with Iceland, although there is
speculation that Iceland’s role as
an important NATO ally was a
factor. The bilateral agreement sets
an unsettling precedent for other
nations with an interest in scienv
tiﬁc whaling—Japan, Korea and
Norway—also close allies of the
United States.

—Natasha Atkins
Natasha administers CEE’s Whale
Protection Fund.

 

Conservationists to ReOpen Lawsuit on Japanese Whaling

Last November, a US. DiSr
trict Court judge denied a motion
by CEE and ten other environmenr
tal and animal welfare groups to
reopen a lawsuit over Japanese
whaling.

In 1984, these groups ﬁled
suit against the Reagan Adminis—
tration for its bilateral agreement
with Japan, which allowed the Japv
anese to kill whales four years be;
yond the moratorium on
commercial whaling without 'the
imposition of economic sanctions
by the US.

The Supreme Court ruled 5 to
4 in favor of the Administration,
ostensibly determining that the
agreement was a successful means
of getting the Japanese to end
commercial whaling, albeit belatv
edly.

Now, however, Japanese
whalers are preparing to set sail for
the Antarctic to kill 300 minke
whales under a “scientiﬁc research”
program, despite the ﬁndings of
the International Whaling Comv
mission (IWC) that their research

CEE REPORT 4

plan was without merit.

A special meeting of the IWC
Scientiﬁc Subcommittee was held
in December to review Japan’s re—
search whaling plan. Fourteen of
the 16 countries represented at the
meeting rejected the scheme.

The environmental groups’
new motion alleged that the Su—
preme Court did not have a truth
ful representation of the facts from
Japan and the Administration in
reaching its decision upholding the
agreement as a successful means of
ending Japanese commercial whal—
ing. Federal court rules allow par
ties to seek relief from a judgment
when “fraud . . . misrepresenta—
tion, or other misconduct of an ad—
verse party” has occurred. CEE and
the other plaintiffs argued that Ja—
pan never intended to halt its
whaling.

Unfortunately, the motion
failed to meet procedural require—
ments for “ripeness,” Judge Charles
Richey told the plaintiffs, because
the Japanese had not yet actually
gone whaling. However, although

he denied the motion on proce’
dural grounds, Judge Richey en»
couraged the environmental groups
to ﬁle a new lawsuit once the ﬂeet
set sail.

The law ﬁrm of Arnold and
Porter, which is handling the case
on a pro bono basis, began immedi’
ately to draft a new complaint,
which will be ﬁled in the District
Court as soon as the whaling ﬂeet
leaves for the Antarctic. *

The new suit, like the original
one, will ask that the court declare
that the United States must “cerv
tifY” the Japanese for operating in
Violation of the International
Whaling Commission moratorium.

If the government certiﬁes Jav
pan, Japan would automatically
lose 50 percent of its ﬁsh allocav
tion in US. waters. The Japanese
ﬁsh catch in US. waters is valued
at $100 million.

—Natasha Atkins

* At press time we learned that the japa-
nese factory ship, Nisshin Maru, had just
set sail for the Antarctic.

February 1988

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

Festival de Liberacion de las Tortugas Marinas (The Sea Turtle

Release Festival)
The ﬁrst lady of Costa Rica,

Margarita Penon de Arias, has
chosen CEE’s sea turtle program at
Doce Millas as one of her 12 spe’
cial conservation projects. Last
August Sra. Arias attended the
day/long festival held at the end of
the sea turtle nesting season. CEE
sent three representatives to the
festival—Board member Vaughan
Brown, volunteer photographer
john Domont, and myself.

Life is difﬁcult in Doce Millas,
a small beachfront community on
Costa Rica’s Caribbean coast, and
for decades the majority of turtle
eggs laid on this relatively isolated
beach have been poached to sup,
plement the meager incomes of
residents and outsiders. Since
March 1986, CEE has sponsored
an unusual program to save some
leatherback turtle nests by hiring
local people to move eggs and pro;
tect them in an inground hatchery.

The arrival by helicopter of
Costa Rica’s very popular ﬁrst lady,
wife of Nobel Peace Prize winner
Oscar Arias, was one highlight of
the festival. She joined more than
1,000 school children and adults
who travelled to this small and rel;
atively isolated community for the
festival. The culmination of the

val. Photo: john 1 Domont/CEE

Fibrwar‘r gee

 
   

CEE Board Member Vaughan Brown (right) talks with local resident at Doce

 

Costa Rican first lady Margarita Arias helps release leatherback hatch/ing at the August 1987
festival at Doce Millas. Sra. Arias has taken a special interest in CEE’s leatherback project. Photo:
john / Domont/CEE

day’s program was the release of
several dozen tiny turtles into the
ocean. Laughter and cries of surv
prise could be heard as the turtles
and all the participants were
caught by the surf.

In 1987 more than 3,500 visir
tors came to Doce Millas and
learned about leatherbacks, their
biology, and their plight. CEE’s
program at Doce Millas is an er
ample of how public education,

 

Millas Sea Turtle festi—

 

combined with a practical conser’
vation approach, can protect en,
dangered species now and for the
future. Photographs of the Doce
Millas project taken by John Do—
mont will be on display for the up,
coming general assembly of the
International Union for the Cone ‘
servation of Nature in San Jose, j \
Costa Rica next month. j l
-—Marydele Donnelly
Marydele administers CEE’s Sea
Turtle Rescue Fund.

-WW W -,..,,W..-.W_W . .. , WWW}

Sponsors Needed to
Expand Doce Millas

l
1
l
Project l
CEE plans to expand our
successful leatherback project
at Doce Millas in 1988. But
we need sponsors to help
fund it. For a tax’deductible
donation of $33, the cost to
purchase and incubate one
nest in the hatchery for two
months, we will send you a
beautiful certiﬁcate of adop’
tion (a great gift idea). Please 4
send checks payable to CEE l
to Marydele Donnelly at our ’
Washington, DC ofﬁce. ;

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

US. Senate Unanimously
Recommends Ratification of

Annex V

On November 5, 1987 the
US. Senate gave its unanimous
consent to ratiﬁcaton of Annex V
of the MARPOL Protocol, an in—
temational agreement to ban the
dumping of plastics from ships at
sea.

The Senate had been considv
ering ratiﬁcation for more than a
year, and held a number of hear—
ings concerning the annex and ma
rine debris. CEE testiﬁed at these
hearings in support of ratiﬁcation,
and spent many hours with Senate
staffers, providing background in,
formation and assistance.

The MARPOL Protocol is an
international agreement concern!
ing many types of ocean pollution.
Two of its annexes regulating oil
dumping and chemicals have al—
ready been ratiﬁed. Annex V deals
speciﬁcally with a ship’s garbage,
especially its plastic and nondev
gradable garbage. It prohibits sigv
natory nations’ vessels from
dumping trash into the ocean, and
prohibits other vessels from dumpv

 

ing in the territorial waters of sig«
natory nations.

The annex had already been
ratiﬁed by 28 other countries, in!
cluding the United Kingdom, but
US. ratiﬁcation was necessary, be,
cause the annex can only come
into force if countries representing
at least 50% of the gross tonnage
of the world’s merchant ﬂeet ratify
it. U.S. ratiﬁcation put the tone
nage percentage over the top.

The annex will come into
force next December, to allow
each country and affected industry
time to modify equipment and pro;
cedures to be in compliance.

The Senate and House both
introduced bills that would imple—
ment Annex V in the United
States, and ﬁnally reached a joint
agreement late in December. The
bill bans plastic dumping in US.
waters and calls for studies on plas’
tic pollution.

—Kathy O’Hara
Kathy administers CEE’s marine de’
bris and entanglement programs.

Thousands of volunteers at CEE’s Texas Coastal Cleanup helped to send a special message to
Congress this fall. At each cleanup site, volunteers were invited to sign large poster—size letters
encouraging the US. Senate to ratify Annex V of the MARPOL Treaty which would prohibit the
disposal of plastics from ships at sea (see above). One month later on October 19, CEE delivered
this message to the Senate at a special marine ”debris-fing” cosponsored by Texas Senator Lloyd
Bentsen and the Texas General Land Office. Special presentations were made by CEE President
Roger E. McManus and Texas General Land Commissioner Gary Mauro. Photo: Linda Maraniss

CEE REPORT 6

CEE Special Report
Used at International
Meeting

A recently completed report
by CEE was presented at a meeting
of the International Maritime Or—
ganization (IMO) in London in
December. The report, “The Gulf
of Mexico as a Special Area Under
MARPOL Annex V,” was written
under a contract with the Texas
General Land Ofﬁce, and is a com—
pilation of legal and scientiﬁc in;
formation supporting the notion
that the Gulf deserves special pro—
tection from marine pollution by
garbage.

The Land Ofﬁce wants this
protection for the Gulf as an addir
tional means of keeping marine dev
bris off Texas beaches, and has
asked the United States to seek
the “special area” designation as
one way of doing so.

Annex V will prohibit the
dumping of all plastics, but if the
Gulf of Mexico were designated a
“special area,” the dumping of
wood, paper, glass, metal, and
other types of garbage other than
food wastes would also be prohib'
ited.

“The [CEE] study found that
commercial ﬁshing, merchant ship,
ping, and cruise vessels are con,
tributing millions of tons of
ﬂoating, durable and persistent gar,
bage that fouls beaches and wet;
lands, entangles marine life,
depletes ﬁshery resources and dis,
ables vessels,” the US. delegation
reported.

The delegation also noted
that the idea of seeking special
area status for the Gulf of Mexico
received “overwhelming support” at
a public hearing held in the
United States last summer and that
the United States would proceed
to gather additional information
preparatory to submitting a formal
proposal for the special area desigv
nation.

——Suzanne Iudicello
Suzanne was a principal author of
CEE’s report on the Gulf of Mexico
as a special area.

February 1988

 




 

 

 

Record Numbers of Dolphins Still Dying in
Tuna Nets—Shift from US. to Foreign Ships

The US. tuna ﬂeet has dras~
tically reduced the number of por—
poise killed in tuna purse seine
nets this season. At the end of OC'
tober, with the season all but over,
the ﬂeet had taken 10,723 por~
poises—just more than half of the
20,500 allowable kill set by regula
tion.

In comparison, by October
last year the National Marine Fish
eries Service (NMFS) had prohib—
ited the ﬂeet from setting on
porpoise because it had exceeded
the quota. One concern was the
high take of eastern spinner dol—
phins, a species classiﬁed as de
pleted under US. law. The
population has been estimated to
have declined as much as 80%
since purse seining began in the
Eastern Tropical Paciﬁc twenty
years ago. Only 200,000 to
600,000 animals are estimated to
remain.

Despite reductions in the
US. take in the Eastern Tropical
Paciﬁc, however, more than
100,000 dolphins and porpoises
died in the nets of other nations
that ﬁsh for tuna in the same
area—nearly double the number in
1985.

The InterrAmerican Tropical
Tuna Commission (IATTC),
which regulates the tuna ﬁshery,
does not set dolphin quotas. The
US. is the only country party to
the Commission that restricts the
way its ﬂeet uses porpoises to cap!
ture tuna. The other countries neir
ther set dolphin quotas nor restrict
the practice of deliberately “setting
on porpoise” to increase the tuna
catch.

The US. government has
said it will propose restrictions on
imported tuna designed to bring
the foreign ﬂeets more into line
with the US. restrictions on kill’
ing dolphins. However, the deter»
mination of what is a “comparable”
dolphin kill (based on differences
in factors such as the way the ﬂeets
ﬁsh) and what are “equivalent”
dolphin protection measures rel

February 1988

main unresolved. CEE and other
conservation groups have been
pushing NMFS to promulgate the
needed regulations, and will keep
the pressure on during the reaua
thorization of the Marine Mammal
Protection Act. See p. 9 for more

on the MMPA.
———Suzanne Iudicello

 

 

Porpoise ”Rescue”
Foundaﬁon

Several CEE members
have written to us asking
about the “Porpoise Rescue
Foundation.” The tuna indus—
try has responded to mem/
bers’ letters using statistics
from this foundation to show
the success of the American
tuna industry at reducing porr
poise deaths.

The Porpoise Rescue
Foundation was created in
the 19703 with ﬁnancing from
the tuna industry. At that
time, its major purpose was to
improve the image of the
tuna ﬂeet, which was reeling
from the criticisms that re—
sulted in the passage of the
Marine Mammal Protection
Act.

Since then, the Founda’
tion has ﬁnanced some re
search into status of stocks of
dolphins and porpoise, but its
main purpose is still to pro,
Vide information and good
public relations on behalf of
the industry.

 

 

 

CEE and Fish and
Wildlife Service
Begin Joint Project

CEE and the US. Fish and
Wildlife Service (FWS) recently
entered into a cooperative agree;
ment to promote the conservation
of sea turtles, primarily in the
Western Hemisphere. The FWS
has conducted sea turtle conserva'
tion activities for many years, and
quite often they rely upon nonv
governmental organizations and
scientists to assist in carrying out
these activities.

Over the coming year, CEE
will administer a number of projv
ects mutually agreed to with the
FWS. We have already completed
two of these projects.

Earlier this year, Dr. Henry
Hildebrand conﬁrmed that endan—
gered Kemp’s ridley sea turtles nest
in small numbers on the beaches
near Tecolutla, Mexico. Among
his recommendations, Dr. Hildev
brand urged increased support of
the voluntary efforts of Fernando
Manzano and Israel Tombona to
move eggs from these beaches to
protected enclosures to reduce
poaching.

In July, Georgia Sea Grant
agent Dave Harrington and com;
mercial shrimper Joe Webster trav’
elled with FWS monies to
Tampico, Mexico to demonstrate
the use of the Georgia Turtle Ex,
cluder Device (TED) to Mexican
ﬁshermen, while National Marine
Fisheries Service (NMFS) staff
demonstrated the use of the NMFS
TED. This project is part of an
overall effort to encourage use of
TEDs by Mexican shrimp ﬁsher—

men.
The agreement will also enav

ble the IUCN Trade Specialist
Group, coordinated by CEE, to
collect data on trade in endangered
species.

In the coming months, we
will report to you on other cooperv
ative projects with the FWS, inv
cluding sea turtle surveys in
Bangladesh, and additional conser’
vation efforts in Mexico.

——Michael Weber
CEE REPORT 7

 




 

 

 

Government Stalls on Protection for Fur Seals

The ofﬁcial status of the
northern fur seal remains unre—
solved despite promises from the
National Marine Fisheries Service
(NMFS) that the agency would
publish regulations giving the Prir
bilof Island population of the seals
the protection they are guaranteed
under the Marine Mammal Proter
tion Act (MMPA).

It has been more than a year
since the agency ﬁrst announced
its intention to designate the fur
seals, whose population has been
declining at a rate of 6 to 8% per
year, as a depleted species. CEE
petitioned NMFS to do so in QC,
tober of 1986. The designation
would add more protection to the
population, including a prohibition
against permissible incidental capv
ture in commercial ﬁshing opera’
tions.

In its latest decision, NMFS
did a 180vdegree turn on its evalu—
ation of the fur seal situation, and
now claims that it has reason to
believe the Bering sea ecosystem
upon which fur seals depend may
have declined in its ability to sup
port the stocks. Therefore, the
agency hypothesizes, the decline in
the population is a result of natural
phenomena, and a species which
has declined in adjustment to the
carrying capacity of its habitat is
not “depleted.”

A month before NMFS anv
nounced its intention to consider
reduced carrying capacity, the
agency had found the opposite. In
denying a petition by the Pribilof
Aleut Sealing Commission to rev
open the depletion designation
question, William E. Evans, Assis—
tant Administrator for Fisheries,
wrote: “There is no evidence of
foodrlimitation in Pribilof Island
fur seals . . . [I]f changes have 00
curred in the resources . . . of the
fur seal’s ecosystem that would be
detrimental to the Pribilof Island
fur seal population, these changes
have gone undetected in annual
ﬁeld studies conducted over the
past 30—40 years . . . [T]he vari—

ance in mortality rates on land and

CEE REPORT 8

at sea are all characteristic of a
population substantially below its
carrying capacity.”

The only readily apparent ele«
ment in the fur seal’s “ecosystem”
that appears to have changed since
Evans ﬁrst denied the Aleut petiv
tion is that the Aleuts have suc’
cessfully pressured some
Congressmen, who fear that a de’
pleted designation would jeopardize
the commercial ﬁshing interests of

their constituents. Congressional
pressure in turn has caused NMFS
to take a second look at the issue.

CEE has petitioned the
agency again, pointing out the
ﬁnding of depletion already has
been made as a matter of law,
since an administrative law judge
and the District Court have done
so in the course of a formal pro;
ceeding.

—Suzarme Iudicello

 

Sea Otter Translocation Underway

The longvawaited translocav
tion plan for sea otters in Califorv
nia started last August, ﬁve years
after it was ﬁrst proposed by the
US. Fish and Wildlife Service
(FWS).

To date, 57 otters have been
moved from central California to
the waters near San Nicolas Island
in southern California. FWS plans

to move 70 otters to the island in

an attempt to establish a new
breeding colony in former sea otter
habitat.

Translocation was seen as a
way to protect the species, now
numbering only about 1,400 anir
mals, in the event a major oil spill
occurred near the otter colony. Oil
slicked waters will damage the inv
sulating qualities of otter fur, and
the animal may die from the cold.
(See p. 20 for more about sea ot’
ters.)

FWS studied a number of va
tential sites for translocation and
determined that San Nicolas Is,
land, one of the California Chan,
nel Islands, offered the best hope
for the sea otters while presenting
the fewest conﬂicts with the ﬁshing
industry and the oil and gas indus—
try. However, the translocation
plan has been met with stiff oppo—
sition from the shellﬁshing indUS'
try, who do not want to share
shellﬁsh with the otters. Shellﬁsh
are a major prey item for sea otr
ters.

Major concessions were

granted to satisfy the ﬁshing and
oil industries, including the “conv
tainment” of otters at the new site.
Any otters found outside the
boundaries of the new site will be
returned to San Nicholas or the
parent colony.

Similar translocations, using
Alaskan sea otters, have been suc~
cessful in Alaska, British Columv
bia, and Washington, although
two other efforts failed. The Ser—
vice believes that successfully es'
tablishing a new colony is
dependent on the number of otters
moved.

With new oil drilling activiv
ties planned in southern California
and several “near misses” from
tanker accidents in recent years,
the longiawaited translocation bev
gan none too soon. While the new
colony is a good start, the animals
will have to be monitored to deter"
mine whether the translocation is
successful. Research will continue
on containment and capture tech’
niques.

More importantly, there needs
to be special Vigilance to make
sure that the animals at San Nic0v
las are protected. Fishermen have
tried—so far unsuccessfully—to
unravel the program through the
state and federal courts, and antiv
otter feelings are running high in
the ﬁshing industry. Six otters are
known to have been shot last year
in Monterey Bay.

———Natasha Atkins

February 1988

v.-." 7 is”, 4

(WI WQQM‘ —————-— 2“ ~ _ all

 

 




 

The 1988 Reauthorization
of the Marine

 
 
  

This year one of the most im'
portant federal wildlife laws—the
Marine Mammal Protection Act——
is up for reauthorization. Already,
foes of the Act’s protection for ma
rine mammals are lobbying for
weakening amendments. This artiv
cle reviews the Act and its proviv
sions, and the issues that are likely
to become signiﬁcant when the de—
bate over reauthorization begins
this spring.

Background and History
In 1972 the MMPA was

signed into law, becoming the ﬁrst
U.S. legislation establishing a
comprehensive program to con’
serve marine mammals. Clearly div
verse interests, from biologists to
commercial ﬁshermen to animal
protectionists, helped to shape the
Act. The Act acknowledges that
marine mammals play an important
role in marine ecosystems and that
they are signiﬁcant for recreational
and aesthetic reasons. The MMPA

also speciﬁcally notes the adverse

February 1988

impact that human activities have
had on some populations, and the
need to restore those that have
been severely depleted.

Prior to 1972, protection and
management of most marine mama
mals rested with the states. How’
ever, many marine mammal
populations exist in more than one
state, or in waters under federal or
international jurisdiction. More’
over, management techniques and
philosophies varied widely among
the states. In response to the perv
ceived need for more consistent
management and greater recovery
efforts, the MMPA transferred
management authority to the fed;
eral government in 1972. p

The National Marine Fisheries
Service (Department of Com,
merce) manages all cetaceans
(whales and dolphins) and pint
nipeds (seals and sea lions) except
walruses. Polar bears, walruses, sea
otters, manatees and dugongs are
managed by the US. Fish and
Wildlife Service (Department of
the Interior).

‘ Mammal Protection
Act

A Guide

Major Provisions of the
MMPA

Moratorium

The primary feature of the
MMPA is the establishment of a
moratorium on the taking of all
marine mammals by persons sub—
ject to US. jurisdiction. “Taking”
includes not only hunting, capture
ing or killing, but also harassment.
The Act also prohibits most impor—
tations of marine mammals or their
products. The MMPA also estab’
lished the Marine Mammal Com,
mission, which has a number of
research and oversight functions,
such as reviewing applications for
permits to take marine mammals.

Exceptions
While the MMPA generally
prohibits “taking,” there are several
major exceptions that regularly al’
low the taking of tens of thousands
of marine mammals. These excep«
tions may be granted by the Secre’
tary of Commerce or Interior who
may determine, on the basis of scir

CEE REPORT 9

 




 

 

 

 

Highly intelligent orcas are popular attractions at marine parks and may be captured for display
purposes under the provisions of the MMPA. Photo: john 1 Domont/CEE

entiﬁc evidence and advice,
Whether it is appropriate to waive
the prohibitions on taking and im«
portation. (Some examples follow.)
For the most part, these exceptions
are not allowed if the species or
population stock has been desig—
nated as “depleted.” The MMPA
deﬁnes “depleted” as species listed
as endangered or threatened under
the Endangered Species Act or
species found to be below their opr
timum sustainable population
(OSP) levels.

Research and display: The Sec—
retary may issue permits for the
taking or importation of marine
mammals for public display and for
scientiﬁc research. Permit applica—
tions are reviewed by the Marine
Mammal Commission and its sci’
entiﬁc advisors, who make recomv
mendations to the appropriate
federal agency.

Commercial ﬁshing: There are
two ways the Secretary may waive
the moratorium on taking marine
mammals during commercial ﬁsh—
ing operations. One is through
granting general permits to an env
tire industry, such as the permit iSe
sued to the American Tunaboat
Association for its practice of “setv
ting on porpoise” in tuna ﬁshing
operations. Individual domestic
ﬁshermen may then apply for a
Certiﬁcate of Inclusion to these

CEE REPORT 10

general permits. The general perv
mits also are issued for foreign ﬁsh«
ing operations in U.S. waters. In
1986 there were ten foreign gen'
eral permits allowing the taking of
6,451 mammals, and ten domestic
general permits (not counting the
tuna industry) allowing the taking
of 6,748 mammals. The tuna in,
dustry, which has a special permit
granted by Congress (rather than
by the Secretary of Commerce or
Interior), is allowed to take up to
20,500 porpoises annually.

The second approach provides
a ﬁvevyear exemption from the
standard permitting process for
commercial ﬁshing operations
whose take of marine mammals is
small and has a negligible impact
on the population. Two of these
small take permits have been lSe
sued, authorizing the taking of 323

mammals in the groundﬁsh ﬁshery
and the menhaden ﬁshery of New
England. As with general permits,
holders of small take permits must
report their levels of take. Table 1
provides information on the an;
thorized levels of take for domestic
and foreign ﬁsheries.

Data on the level of take of
marine mammals in foreign ﬁsher’
ies are gathered by U.S. observers.
The tuna ﬁshery is the only domeSv
tic ﬁshery subject to a federal ob—
server program. All other domestic
ﬁsheries are required to report their
marine mammal take, and to stay
within the permit quotas.

However, this system of self,
policing has the potential to foster
abuse and legitimate error. For inv
stance, a ﬁsherman may not be
able to identify the species of ani’
mal taken, or he may misidentify
it, making it difﬁcult to determine
when the quota is reached. Fur,
thermore, ﬁshermen may actually
be discouraged from reporting their
takings at all, because once the
quota is reached no more takings
are allowed. This places considerav
ble peer pressure on individual ﬁshv
errnen. Each reported taking brings
the entire ﬁshery one step closer to
being shut down.

Nonrﬁshing activities: The Act
includes a process for ﬁve—year per’
mits that allow incidental taking in
the course of activities other than
commercial ﬁshing, such as oil and
gas operations. These permits are
issued after the agency publishes a
notice of the permit application in
the Federal Register and gives the.
public and interested parties an op
portunity to review and comment
on the application. During this

 

sea lion

Table 1
Authorized Incidental Takes, 1986

Northern Northern Calif.

Harbor seal/ Elephant Small

 

U.S. tuna fleet.

Protection Act, June 1987.

 

fur seal sea lion grey seal seal cetaceans
Domestic 2130 45 1835 2215 60 463
Foreign 250 470 40 48 0 5643
Total 2380 515 1 875 2263 60 6106

Note: This table does not include the 20,500 porpoises allowed to be taken annually by the

Source: National Marine Fisheries Service, 1986/87 Annual Report on the Marine Mammal

 

 

February 1988




 

process, the Secretary must ﬁnd
that the taking will have a negligi’
ble impact on the species. A 1986
amendment to the MMPA allOws
such operations to take small num«
bers from a species listed as “threat;
ened” or “endangered” under the
Endangered Species Act (thus auv
tomatically considered “depleted”
under the MMPA), if it is certain
that the taking will have a negligi—
ble impact on the population. So
far, the only exemption issued unv
der this process has been for harass;
ment of ringed seals in the Arctic
during underwater seismic tests by
the oil and gas industry.

Native take: In addition to the
above exemptions by permit, AlaS'
kan Natives are exempted from the
prohibitions on taking provided
that the species taken is not de'
pleted, and that the taking is for
subsistence purposes and is not
wasteful. The Secretary may prev
scribe regulations for the taking of
depleted species by Natives.

Issues for the 1988
Reauthorization

”Nuisance” animals

Although the Act allows pri—
vate interests, such as commercial
ﬁshermen or hatchery managers, to
seek permits allowing the taking of
marine mammals, including killing
as a last resort, ﬁshermen have
been arguing that more ﬂexibility
is necessary in the procedures.
West coast ﬁshermen have comv
plained about competition for ﬁsh
with sea lions and elephant seals,
and that marine mammals even
pose a threat to divers ﬁshing for
abalone. They have proposed that
government ofﬁcials be allowed'to
kill “nuisance animals.” The prOv
posal, made by the Paciﬁc Marine
Fisheries Commission, leaves open
to interpretation the meaning of
“nuisance animal.” Furthermore,
the proposal does not include a
mechanism for determining the
status of the marine mammal popu’
lation or that the taking will have
a “negligible impact” on the popuv
lation. The absence of these stanv
dards, in addition to the discretion
over what is a nuisance animal,

February 1988

Harbor seals could be taken in large numbers
if MMPA restrictions are relaxed. Photo: Vic—
tor B. Scheffer

concerns conservationists, who fear
that in addition to killing animals
in minor ﬁshery interactions the
state will be able to declare entire
culls of animals, ostensibly to pr0v
tect ﬁsh stocks.

Taking in commercial fisheries

Currently the Act prohibits
the taking in commercial ﬁsheries
of marine mammals that are “de
pleted” and those whose status has
not been determined. Fishermen
and government ofﬁcials are now
seeking to amend the Act to allow
taking in both cases.

Depleted species: The impetus
for this proposal comes from both
the National Marine Fisheries Serv
Vice and commercial ﬁshermen,
who fear curtailment of ﬁshing op;
erations that are likely to incidenv
tally capture certain depleted
species. For example, the Japanese
salmon driftnet ﬁshery apparently
cannot avoid taking northern fur
seals during its operations in U.S.
waters. Last year, CEE and other
organizations won an injunction
against the ﬁshery, after arguing,
among other things, that the tak’
ing of fur seals violated the
MMPA. Outgoing Undersecretary
of Commerce Anthony Calio said
that the Department would seek an
amendment to the MMPA to ale

 

low commercial ﬁshing operations
to take small numbers of a species
for which taking is currently not
permitted, if the taking will have a
negligible impact.

Another case is the California
sea lion, whose population is large
and growing, in spite of a take of
several thousand per year. How!
ever, recent assessments have
shown that the sea lion population
is still below OSP, and thus should
be considered “depleted.” Fishing
interests argue that taking should
be allowed if the taking would still
allow the population to grow to;
ward OSP.

Undetermined status: Before
taking during ﬁshing operations
can be allowed, there must be a
determination that the affected
population is at or above its optir
mum sustainable population and
that the taking will not cause it to
decline below OSP.

For some species, it is difﬁcult
to gather sufﬁcient information to
make such a determination. In
California, inshore gillnet ﬁsheries,
primarily for halibut, have been
drowning harbor porpoises. During
the mid’19805 up to 300 harbor
porpoises per year were drowned in
gill and trammel nets in Califor~
nia, but it was not known what
percentage of the porpoise popula
tion this represented. NMFS has
yet been unable to determine the
size or status of the affected popu’
lation. However, NMFS plans to
allow the incidental mortality of
harbor porpoises under the general
permits already granted to west
coast ﬁshermen for other species.
Because such a move might trigger
litigation from conservationists,
NMFS is likely to push to amend
the Act to allow the taking of harr
bor porpoises and other species
with uncertain status.

Intentional take in the tuna ﬁshr
eries: For reasons that science does
not yet understand, schools of yelv
lowﬁn tuna in the Eastern Tropical
Paciﬁc commonly swim beneath
schools of porpoises (dolphins).
The tuna ﬁshing industry has ex'
ploited this phenomenon by using
porpoise schools to target tuna,
and then setting purse seine nets

CEE REPORT 11

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

140,000 1
__ Table 2 NON-U.S.
N 120,000 "‘ o 0
U Dolphin Mortality
M 100 000 -
B I
E
R 80,000—
K 80,000A .3— j
| '—" L 1
L 40 000 .1"
1 ' ' j
E
D 20000 / ; -\
§ ‘ UOS
a -
0 l l l l l
YEAR , 1983 1984 1985 1986 1987

 

 

around the surface swimming por~
7/0 poise in order to trap the tuna be—
4:91 neath. This practice of“ setting on
porpoise” was estimated to kill sev—
:Leral hundred thousand porpoises a
year in the 19605 and early 19705.
The enactment of the MMPA in
1972 and of amendments in 1984,
designed to ﬁne tune the regula
tion of the tuna ﬁshery, have signif’
icantly reduced the mortality of
porpoises in the US. tuna ﬂeet.
During the 1987 season the US.
eet had the lowest take on re,
cord—10,700 as of the end of 0c,
tober.

The major problem today is
occurring among the unregulated
ﬂeets of nations other than the
US., who now are rivaling the
kill rates of two decades ago———in
1986, they killed more than
100,000 dolphins. Performance
over the past four years is shown in
Table 2.

The US. has proposed regula
tions restricting the importation of
foreign caught tuna to those ﬂeets
with dolphin mortality rates “come
parable” to those of the US. ﬂeet.
There has been some disagreement
over what “comparable” means and
what kinds of protective measures
would need to be taken. For exam'
ple, the US. ﬂeet operates with
100% observer coverage, while the
foreign ﬂeets carry no observers at
all. During this reauthorization of
the MMPA, it is expected that at
tention will focus on the promulgav
tion of regulations to bring the
foreign ﬂeets into line with con’
trols similar to those for the US.
ﬂeet.

CEE REPORT 12

 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 

Return of management

As in past reauthorization dlS'
cussions, the question of whether
federal prevemption of authority to
manage marine mammals has re;
sulted in too much protection has
been raised by the states, particuv
larly those in the Paciﬁc North,
west. California, Oregon,
Washington, and Alaska state ofﬁ’
cials already have expressed their
concern that state responsibility to
manage marine resources is hamv
pered by the protective scheme of
the MMPA. The issue has been
raised most vehemently in cases
where marine mammals and come
mercial ﬁshermen are thought to
compete for the same species.

The MMPA provides a pro;
cess whereby states may regain
management authority over marine
mammal species, but the process
requires the states to make studies
to determine that species are at or
above OSP, and that they provide
for a management plan that will
comply with the protective features
of the Act. Paciﬁc coastal states
have criticized the process, claimv
ing that it is too cumbersome and
requires expenditure of substantial
amounts of state funds just to es—
tablish the data to justify seeking
return of management. The Paciﬁc
Marine Fisheries Commission, an
organization representing the ﬁsh
eries management agencies of Calir
fornia, Oregon, Washington, and
Alaska, has proposed loosening the
requirements for return of manage—
ment and providing for joint state/
federal funding of the research re
quired to back up such a request.

   
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 

Thus far, only the state of
Alaska is actively considering seek'
ing return of management for three p
species: walrus, polar bear, and sea
otter. A series of meetings has
been conducted around the state to
gather public comment on the re—
turn of management, and sentie
ment on the issue is about equally 9 ,ﬁ
divided. A decision on whether i
the state will proceed with the re
quest is expected soon.

Conclusion

The process of reauthorizing
the MMPA is expected to take at
least six to nine months. CEE has
taken a lead in a coalition of cone
servation groups dedicated to pre—
serving a strong MMPA. In
addition to evaluating the state—
ments and proposals of those seek«
ing to amend the MMPA, we will
present testimony to Congress, pre—
pare and distribute position papers,
and produce a newsletter.

We will keep CEE members
up to date on the reauthorization
process as it unfolds. If you would
like to receive the MMPA reauv
thorization newsletter, please write
to our Washington, DC ofﬁce.

——Natasha Atkins
—Suzanne Iudicello
Natasha is CEE’s Senior Staff Biolo’
gist and Suzanne is our legal assis’
tant. Both will be working throughout
the year to protect the MMPA.

 

"""lpg; Protect the MPA' ;

f the ﬁrSt and most-f ,;
ortant tasks ahead is letv ‘ .
'ongress know that the if ‘
:PA 18 important to you.
ease take a moment and
e to your Senators and
resentative, asking them
authorize a; strOng
‘ when it comes up, .
ping important protections}.
,marine mammals, espev'f”
':"depleted and endanv "

 

 

 
   

 

February 1988

 

 




 

Sanctuaries Program Up for Reauthorization in ’88

As the second session of the
100th Congress convenes this
month, Congress will begin consid’
ering reauthorization of Title III of
the Marine Protection, Research
and Sanctuaries Act, better known
as the Marine Sanctuaries Act.
And for the third time, CEE will
be working hard to see that Con,
gress increases the capability of the
National Marine Sanctuary PI‘O'
gram (NMSP) to carry out its re
sponsibility for identifying and
protecting nationally signiﬁcant
marine areas.

Since the program was estab’
lished by Congress in 1972, seven
sanctuaries have been designated:
two off the west coast, four off the
east coast, and one in the South
Paciﬁc. CEE played an instrumen’
tal role in ﬁve of these designa’
tions and we are now increasing

our efforts to expand the sanctuary
system (see beloW).

In 1983 and 1984, to resolve
controversy and confusion about
the sanctuary designation process,
Congress substantially revised the
Marine Sanctuaries Act and laid
out an elaborate process for identir
fying and designating sanctuary
sites. The support of CEE members
and other citizens helped insure
that the revision neither shackled
the program with unrealistic proce’
dural requirements nor rendered
the program beholden to special
interests.

But since the last CongreSv
sional review, the program has
been virtually gutted by political
appointees. In the last seven years,
the administration has designated
only one small sanctuary, has re;
fused to spend funds on research

and education activities, has vio«
lated its own regulations in drop,
ping Monterey Bay, CA from
consideration, and has yet to take
any new sites through the designa’
tion process.

One of CEE’s principal objec—
tives in the coming months will be
to secure Congressional help in re’
turning the sanctuary program to
its leading role in the conservation
of our nation’s marine resources.
Citizen interest in this small but
important marine conservation
program will be critical for Cone
gress to give the program the sup;
port it needs. If you would like
information on how you can help,
please write to me at our Washing;
ton, DC address.

——Michael Weber

Michael heads our Marine Habitat
Program.

 

New CEE Research Program

in Pacific Northwest

Thanks to generous funding
from the David and Lucile Packard
Foundation and other CEE donors,
we recently embarked on a new
program for marine sanctuaries.

The Paciﬁc Rim Project is a
long term project which will begin
with a review of available informa
tion on marine environments off
the west coast of the United States
from California to Alaska. These
areas are among the most produce
tive waters in the world, and many
species, including whales, seals,
and seabirds, depend on them for
food and shelter.

After discussions with scienv
tists, government ofﬁcials, and
other interested parties, we will sev
lect a handful of sites that deserve
further consideration as national

‘ marine sanctuaries. CEE will look
for sites that are the marine equin
alents of national parks such as
Yellowstone, Grand Teton, and
Yosemite. The government process
for sanctuary designation is a long
one. By 1989, CEE plans for sev—

eral sites to be actively considered

February 1988

for sanctuary designation by the
federal government. Designation is
expected starting in 1990.

We will also be training grad~
uate students and local conserva»
tion leaders in the identiﬁcation
and designation of marine pro»
tected areas, building a broader
constituency for the federal marine
sanctuary program.

To take us through the next
several stages of the project, CEE
recently brought on board Fred
Felleman to serve as Research Co;
ordinator for the Paciﬁc Rim Proja
ect and other CEE sanctuary
activities. Fred has completed a
graduate program in marine science
at the University of Washington,
and for the last several years has ‘
studied the behavior and feeding
ecology of orcas in Puget Sound.
Initially, Fred will be overseeing
the research by graduate interns.

We are pleased and excited
about this project to protect an
area of the ocean so rich in marine
life and so vital to many species.

——Michael Weber

CEE at Florida
Beach Cleanup

On September 26, 1987 CEE
and several other groups held a
beach cleanup in Key West. The
site chosen for the cleanup was a
onevhalf mile stretch of beach
known as Higgs Beach, which had
not been cleaned in more than 21
years.

More than 100 people particiv
pated in the cleanup. We used
data cards CEE developed for our
Texas cleanups to record the types
and amounts of trash we found.
The cleanup yielded many unusual
items, including a parachute harr
ness and part of an airplane fuse’
lage.

Food was donated by Domir
no’s Pizza, and local musicians en;
tertained the participants after!
ward. '

In all, more than nine tons of
trash were removed, including ser
eral miles of monoﬁlament ﬁshing
line and discarded netting. CEE is
planning a statewide cleanup in
1988.

-—Lee Hallman
Lee is CEE’s Florida representative.

CEE REPORT 13

 




 

‘3

 

CEE Attends Cartagena Convention

The ﬁrst meeting of the pare
ties to the Cartagena Convention,
a major international agreement
for the protection and develop
ment of the marine environment
of the Wider Caribbean, was held
from October 26—28 in Guadev
loupe. Two CEE staff members at
tended the meeting.

This treaty is designed to ad
dress the problems of controlling
pollution on land and at sea and
coordinating international efforts
for specially protected areas, envi'
ronmental impact assessments, and
scientiﬁc and technical co—operav
tion. Member nations can accept
more speciﬁc obligations by ratify—
ing various protocols.

Several years ago CEE spon’
sored the drafting of a protocol for
specially protected areas and wild
life to preserve rare and fragile eco—
systems and the habitat of
depleted, threatened, or endanr
gered species in the Caribbean.
CEE and other conservation organ—
izations lobbied government delea
gates to support the adoption of
this protocol at the October meet«
ing. It was wellvreceived, and a
special meeting will be held in
June 1988 regarding the protocol’s
adoption.

In the meantime, the parties
approved several projects at the
October meeting, including a manv
agement plan for mangroves in
Martinique, a regional environv
mental education program, an inv
ventory of ﬁshery resources in
French Guiana, a management
plan for West Indian manatees in
Jamaica, and a pollution control
monitoring program.

Delegates and conservationists
at the meeting urged the United
States to improve its commitment
to Caribbean conservation by in—
creasing its share of funding. U.S.
territory in the Wider Caribbean
includes the Gulf Coast states,
Puerto Rico, and the US. Virgin
Islands and totals about one—ﬁfth of
the region’s coastline. The United
States discharges onevthird of the
freshwater from rivers and may
contribute more than one’half of

CEE REPORT 14

the pollutants in the Caribbean.
Presently, the US. provides scienv
tiﬁc advisers and some money for
the activities of the Secretariat but
does not contribute to the trust
fund.

The United States was not
the only major country to be critiv
cized at the meeting. During one
of the more interesting debates,
France vehemently opposed a ban
on the dumping of all hazardous
substances in the Caribbean. It ap—
pears that France wants to keep
the Caribbean available for the
dumping of its nuclear waste.

' —-—Marydele Donnelly
Marydele and Ray Carthy represented
CEE at the Cartagena Convention
meeting.

 

Conservation, a la

Mode Francaise

As government represenr
tatives inside Guadeloupe’s
Hotel Meridien developed
strategies to protect the ma«
rine environment of the Carr
ibbean, divers hired by the
hotel owners placed eprOv
sives in the nearshore‘reef to
remove its top 50 cm of
coral, thereby allowing ex!
pansion of the windrsurﬁng
business. After delegates er
pressed concern over such dew
struction, the blasting was
rescheduled, for the day after

 

the meeting ended.

 

 

 

 

CEE Participates in 2nd Western
Atlantic Turtle Symposium

Sea turtle scientists and cone
servationists from the Wider Carib;
bean and from as far as Oman,
Australia, Indonesia, and Japan
met in Mayaguez, Puerto Rico
from October 12—18 for the Ser
ond Meeting of the Western Ate
lantic Turtle Symposium (WATS).
CEE staff presented papers and par—
ticipated in panel discussions on
two critical sources of sea turtle
mortality, incidental take by com’
mercial ﬁsheries and international
trade in sea turtle products.’

Scientists and delegates agreed

 

I“

CEE’s Mike Weber (left) talks with Hideomi
Tokunaga, a conservationist from lapan, at the
Western Atlantic Turtle Symposium last Octo-
ber. Photo: Ray Carthy/CEE

 

that incidental take in the trawls
of shrimp boats is a major threat to
sea turtles around the world and
particularly to the depleted popula’
tions in the Caribbean.

In addition, international
trade in tortoiseshell, especially by
Japan and France, jeopardizes
hawksbill populations in the Wider
Caribbean. Between 1970 and
1986 over 251,660 Caribbean
hawksbills were exported to Japan
from 26 Caribbean countries. TO’
day Japan imports the shell of
more than 10,000 Caribbean ,
hawksbills each year, often without
proper export documents.

Substantial quantities of shell
are also imported into France from
its overseas Caribbean departments
of Guadeloupe and Martinique.
Turtles are frequently acquired ille—
gally from the waters of neighbor’
ing islands, such as Antigua,
Barbuda, and Montserrat. The lack
of interest of France and Japan in
curtailing their fashionable turtle
shell trade is sabotaging conserva’
tion efforts in the developing nae
tions of the Caribbean.

—Marydele Donnelly

February 1988

 

 

 




 

 

...3...

 

Schoolchildren examine whale skeleton at the Museum of Natural History in Santo Domingo as
part of the Silver Bank anniversary celebration. Photo: Mike Weber/CEE

Anniversary Celebration for

Humpback Sanctuary
October 14, 1987 marked the

ﬁrst anniversary of the Silver Bank
humpback whale sanctuary in the
Dominican Republic. Silver Bank
is the principal breeding ground of
the largest population of endan'
gered North Atlantic humpback
whales. The whales congregate
there in winter to mate, give birth,
and nurse their young.

CEE had worked for a year
and a half with Dominican governv
ment ofﬁcials and conservationists
to establish the sanctuary, and we
continue to support a variety of re—
search, management, and educa’
tion activities concerning whales
and other marine resources in the
country.

CEE’s Vice President for PIO'
grams, Mike Weber, went to Santo
Domingo and spoke at the celebra’
tion, which was sponsored by the
Presidentially'appointed Sanctuary
Commission, and hosted by the
National Museum of Natural His;
tory (NMNH).

Also in attendance were rep—
resentatives of the various instituv
tions which comprise the
Commission.

The highlight of the evening
was a video, presented by Oswaldo

February 1988

Vasquez of the Center for Marine
Biological Research (CIBIMA),
entitled “The Observation of
Whales in the Dominican Repub~
lic.” ,

Approximately two hundred
people came to join in the celebra’
tion, which was well publicized by
the media. The event, in its env
tirety, was aired by the most popuv
lar Dominican television station
the next day.

During Mr. Weber’s tw0vday
stopover in Santo Domingo, he
also met with government ofﬁcials
and other people involved in the
future of the humpback sanctuary.
They discussed plans to expand
current research and education
programs so that even more can be
done to protect the Dominican Rea
public’s marine and coastal re«
sources. We will report on the
coming season’s activities in future
issues of the CEE Report.

To receive a summary report
of the ﬁrst two years of this projv
ect, please write to me in care of
CEE’s Washington, DC address.

—Andrea Shotkin
Andrea helps Mike Weber coordinate
our conservation work in the Domini,
can Republic.

Germany Strengthens
Sea Turtle Ban

The West German governv
ment recently made another con,
tribution to sea turtle conser-
vation. Effective January 1, 1988,
the sale of sea turtle products is
prohibited in West Germany. The
United States imposed a similar
prohibition in 1978.

The recent West German an,
nouncement culminates several
years of efforts by West German
and US. conservation groups. In

October 1983, the West German

' parliament held hearings on a pl’O’

posed ban on the import of sea turv
tle products. At the urging of
government ofﬁcials and conserva’
tion organizations in West Ger—
many, CEE prepared expert
testimony for the hearings. In De«
cember of 1983, the Bundestag
voted to enact an import ban be
ginning January 1, 1984. This new
law complements the 1984 law,
prohibiting the sale of items 31'
ready in the country.

Congratulations to the West
German conservationists and gOV'
ernment ofﬁcials!

 

Rediscovered Danger
to Sea Turtles

A possible threat to the re,
covery of green sea turtle popula’
tions in Florida has recently been
identiﬁed. A disease called papil—
lomatosis has been found in two
thirds of the strandings reported by
CEE’s ﬁeld ofﬁce in Florida. The
disease is a debilitating condition
in which large unsightly tumors
grow on the turtle’s skin, and in
most cases, eventually cover the
eyes, making feeding and escaping
danger difﬁcult if not impossible.

The cause of the growths is
not known for certain, although
viruses may be responsible.

This condition, due to its inv
creasing frequency and its debilitatv
ing effects, should be viewed with
alarm by sea turtle conservation;
ists. What a shame to lose young
turtles to this silent killer.

——Lee Hallman

CEE REPORT 15

 




 

 

A Texas-Sized Salute for CEE Volunteer

Would you spend your birth—
day picking up trash? Would you
work all day at your regular job
and then work until midnight on a
special volunteer project analyzing
data? Jens Deichmann of Austin,
TX has done these things and
more to help CEE reduce marine
debris from the Texas coast.

Jens, a biologist and SCUBA
diver, has a deep concern for a
healthy marine environment. His
involvement with CEE began in
September 1986, when he drove
with his two teenage daughters and
their friends to Padre Island Na
tional Seashore near Corpus
Christi, to participate in CEE’s ﬁrst
Texas Coastal Cleanup. His interv

 

lens Deichmann. Photo: Linda Maraniss/CEE

 

CEE Launches Debris Awareness

Campaign for Industry

In cooperation with the Socir
ety of the Plastics Industry and the
National Oceanic and Atmo«
spheric Administration, CEE has
ofﬁcially launched a national
Proper Disposal of Plastics Camv
paign. In upcoming months eye—
catching public service advertise!
ments will be featured in several
trade journals of the commercial
ﬁshing, merchant shipping, and
plastics industry to inform these
groups of the problems caused by
the improper disposal of plastics in
the marine environment. Thanks
to Dow Chemical, we were able to
secure the pro bono services of
HCM Dawson Johns & Black Adv
vertising, who helped make the
campaign possible. Brochures have
been produced for each industry as
well, and provide more informa
tion and suggestions on how each
group can help reduce their contriv
bution to the problem.

In addition, CEE has prOv
duced the following educational ;
materials on marine debris:

O a slide show and script giv’
ing a general overview of the prob
lems caused by marine debris and

how citizens can help ($25.00);
CEE REPORT 16

0 four slide shows for com;
mercial ﬁshermen with a script and
audio cassette tape, each tailored
to a speciﬁc region of the United
States ($30.00 per program).

Contact Kathy O’Hara at our
Washington, DC address to order
and for more information.

    

When it’s done holding your ship’Sg ' ‘ ~ ' , ‘
it could hold death for some marine animals.

This plastic trash bag may LOSlly and potentially hazard-

lllll ] ' | ' r L J | ‘

But toa hungry sea turtle. rt louls propellers orrrcloEs Intake

might And when the turtle ports

_;, It's a cntrcal issue. dlSIlnCd

mISlakc becomes atal toattract public and govern-
The problem Is more than ment scrutiny rfwe fail to take

bags Plastic Six—pack holders (“Mon to, Ive I[

sometimes become lodged So please. stow your trash.

“ k"! d l dtluulutyuut ‘ ,r G I
r . L

 

‘ ‘, _ g‘ g smu— r Asca trunle
tngthem 0 herplastrc refuse. may not know any better But
citherlhrough in usuon or now. rou 0'
To learn how you can help.

. . , wn're C cnlerfor Environmental

whales. dolphins and other Educunon. 1725 0850116 Sm’L’L

marine mammals every year N W, Suite 500. ershrngtnn.
Plastic dchns also r 20036

   

This arresting black and white ad will appear
in publications of the commercial shipping in-
dustry, urging merchant shippers to use care
in disposing of their plastic debris. Similar ads
were produced for the plastics and the com-
mercial fishing industries. Copies of the ads
are available to CEE members. Please write to
our Washington office.

est in the problem of marine debris
continued after the threerhour
event and he offered CEE his ex—
pertise with computers to help anav
lyze the results of the data cards
completed by the hundreds of
cleanup volunteers.

Jens donated many hours tabv
ulating and entering data from
over 700 cards, as well as designing
a computer program to help ana’
lyze the various kinds of debris
found. Jens further assisted CEE by
accepting to serve on the Texas
Coastal Cleanup Steering Commit»
tee and presenting a report on how
the data analysis was reached.

On September 19, 1987, on
his birthday, Jens once again drove
his daughters and friends to the
coast, leaving Austin at 4 am.
and driving four hours to Padre Is«
land National Seashore for CEE’s
2nd Texas Coastal Cleanup.

“The cleanup gives people, es
pecially the kids, some understand
ing of the magnitude of the
problem of pollution and its effect
on the marine environment and
the human environment,” Jens
said.

Cleanup volunteers turned in
more than 1500 data cards this
time, and Jens once again cheer,
fully sat down at his computer,
tabulating and analyzing the inforv
mation.

CEE staffers in the Austin rev
gional ofﬁce are indebted to Jens
for his hard work. Jens is a special
friend to CEE, and we all beneﬁt
from his commitment to protect
the marine environment and rid

the Texas coast of plastic debris.
—-—Linda Maraniss

 

Correction

In the September 1987 CEE
Report we failed to give a photograr
pher’s credit to the photo of CEE
Regional Director Linda Maraniss
with Texas Senator Hector Uribe.
The photo should have been cred,
ited to Andy Hammar. We regret
the omission.

February 1988

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

Cleanup (continued from page 1)

Dow Chemical, ARCO, and Shell
Oil all gave generous donations.
(See box below for list of all spe
cial supporters.) Mobil Oil Com;
pany donated 100,000 specially
designed garbage bags for Texas
cleanup efforts, and Safeway dis’
tributed thousands of grocery bags
advertising the cleanup. Four thou—
sand posters promoting the event
were printed as a donation by the
Lower Colorado River Authority
The Texas General Land Ofﬁce
Adopth Beach program provided
help all summer, with publicity,
printing certiﬁcates of thanks, and
much, much more. The Texas Atr
torney General’s ofﬁce printed and
distributed several thousand “Safety
First” cards for volunteers. The
Texas Hotel and Motel Associa
tion helped line up 30 Beach
Buddy hotels where cleanup volunv
teers from out of town could stay
at a discounted rate.

The Texas Parks and Wildlife
Department ﬁlmed a segment for
their “Made in Texas” PBS prOv
gram on marine debris during the
cleanup on Matagor‘da Island,
where more than 140 of their emv
ployees helped to remove 15 tons
of trash.

At noon, after the cleanup,
volunteers were rewarded with a
bright orange and blue “I’m a
Beach Buddy” button and a certiﬁ—
cate of thanks, and at some loca«
tions were also rewarded with a
Pepsi-or Coke and hot dog as a

 

Texas Land Commissioner Carry Mauro joined Linda Maraniss (center) at a post-cleanup press con-

 

Young beach buddies at Matagorda Island join Bill Oliver in singing ”Beach Litter Blues”, the 1986
contest-winning song, while TX Parks and Wildlife film the event for their ”Made in Texas” televi-

sion program. Photo: Andy Hammar

“thank you” for a hard job, very
well done.

Dicky Neely and Mike Cross,
winners of the 1987 Beach Litter
Blues song writing contest sponv
sored by Corpus Christi radio stav
tion KSTE, performed during a
post—cleanup beach party and press
conference at the Holiday Inn on
the beach at Corpus Christi.

The 1987 Texas Coastal
Cleanup was a day to feel good. A
day to enjoy being part of a group,
a day to enjoy the beauty of the
Texas coast, and a day to work
hard to make a difference in the
way the marine environment will
look for days and years to come.

To the hardworking and en,
thusiastic zone captains, to generr
ous businesses and agencies, and to
all those participated, from truck
drivers to ﬁrst aid volunteers to

ference in Corpus Christi to discuss the success of the event and to display huge, Texas-sized peti-

tions signed by cleanup volunteers that morning urging United States Senators to ratify Annex V of

the MARPOL Treaty (see p. 6). Photo: Sue Barnett/CEE

February 1988

school teachers—THANKS,
BEACH BUDDIES! We could not
have done it without you.

—Linda Maraniss
Linda is director of CEE’s regional
ofﬁce in Austin, TX. She spear’
headed both the 1986 and 1987
Texas Coastal Cleanups.

     

_ . Many foundanons and

" corporat1ons contributed
much needed funding

j1987 T , as Coastal Cleanup

(2.,Campaign, including the _.

.. Rockwell Fund the Trull 1
Foundat1on, the Marrs and
Verna McLean Foundatr" j
the Eugene McDermott ' an

adation, the LB} Family Fun» .

dation, the Ruth MCLean

Bowman lowers Foundation, ; _

1 ,’ Lower Colorado River Au: . i

thority, Texas General Land

OfﬁCe, Waste jManagement,

If; :1 Dow Chemicai .. 'trompany, . ,

iiﬁii‘JARC. Shell Oil Company,

, a Exxon, Society Of the Plastics

_j 'InduStry, Tandy Corporation,

* Texas Hotel and MOtel Asso« .

5 ”Canon, Cities Serv1ce Oil "

and Gas Corporanon, Sun

Oil, Mobil Oil, Boating
Trades Assoc. of Texas, Safe—
way, CocavCola, Tracor,

' Black and ‘White ConneCr

. tion, Swift Independent,

KWik Kopy, and The Ofﬁce
Company.

  

 

  
 

 

 

 

 

 

CEE REPORT 17

 




 

 

To Our Members

1987 marked CEE’s 15th year
of effectively working to protect
marine wildlife and its habitats. As
you know, over these past 15
years, we have scored many hard
earned victories for marine conserv
vation. This track record would
not be possible without the stal»
wart commitment of our more than
100,000 members. In addition to
providing ﬁnancial support, you
have also taken the time to write
Congress and other policy makers
and to volunteer in many other
ways to help us ﬁght for the world
wide protection of marine wildlife
and ocean resources. Thank you!

1988 promises to be the busiv
est year ever for CEE. In addition
to strengthening ongoing programs,
we are expanding our agenda to
meet many new challenges. Never—
theless, the most important items
on our agenda are protecting the
federal regulations requiring Turtle
Excluder Devices in shrimp nets
and stopping the uncontrolled kill’
ing of marine mammals and sea—
birds by Japanese driftnets. With
your continued support we know
that we will be successful in
achieving our shared goals.

We have been writing you of—
ten to ask for ﬁnancial assistance—
more than we would like. To be
quite frank, our resources are

stretched thin these days. But we
cannot walk away from a single
ﬁght. Each is too important to the
values we share and the causes we
believe in. We have only our
members to turn to for the major—
ity of our funds.

While we hope you will be
able to make ﬁnancial contibutions
to support our programs, we know
that it may not be possible each
time we ask. We do, however,
hope that you will read our letters
to stay abreast of important issues
affecting the marine environment.

When you do respond with a
donation, your money will be put
to work immediately in the ﬁght to
save marine animals.

We believe that our most
valuable resource is the support
and participation of our meme
bers—citizens who share a sense of
responsibility for the safety and
survival of marine wildlife and its
habitats.

Again, on behalf of all of us
at CEE, thank you for your continv
uing support. Working together we
can turn the challenges ahead into
new victories and continue to save
the lives of countless marine aniv
mals.

—D0nna Brass
Donna recently joined CEE as our
Director of Membership.

“MORE THANWATER

 

CEE Writes Report on Oceans for

President’s Office

The President’s Council on
Environmental Quality (CEQ) is a
federal agency that oversees the
implementation of the National
Environmental Policy Act. As part
of its responsibilities, the Council
prepares an annual report to the
President on environmental issues.
At CEQ’s request, CEE wrote the
chapter on the health of the ma’
rine environment for the agency’s
latest annual report, which was
published last fall.

We discussed the status. of
commercial ﬁsh stocks around the

CEE REPORT 18

world, entanglement of marine anv
imals in marine debris and in ﬁsh

ing gear, the whaling moratorium,

the status of the northern fur seals,
Antarctica, and marine pollution,

among other topics.

Copies of the report, which
also covers air pollution, grassland
and forest management, pesticides
and hazardous wastes, and agricul—
ture, among other issues, are availv
able through the US.
Government Printing Ofﬁce in
Washington, DC. To order a copy
call (202) 7836238.

 

Manatee Posters
Distributed
Throughout Florida

CEE’s campaign to promote
safe boating in manatee habitat has
been a great success thanks to the
efforts of volunteers in Florida.
These individuals and organizations
started distributing our educational
poster to marinas and boat ramps
throughout the state last autumn.

Safe boating is an essential
part of the manatee’s recovery
since boat collisions account for
onevfourth of all deaths. There are
few, if any, manatees in Florida
that are not scarred. from frequent
collisions with boats. By watching
for manatees and obeying speed
zone signs boaters will reduce these
potentially deadly accidents.

While boaters do their part to
protect manatees, the rest of us
should realize that boat collisions
are only part of the problem. De~
velopment of coastal areas, dredge
ing, and pollution all decrease the
quality of habitat for manatees.

Elected ofﬁcials, development
interests, and the public will need
to pull together to insure the man,
atees’ future survival.

—]im Serﬁs

Jim has coordinated CEE’s manatee
protection efforts.

PROPS CUT

 

 

 

IN-r/uvu -'.V ~.-.-.;. wk,“- ~ .0:

Hundreds of manatee posters have been dis-
tributed to boat ramps and marinas through—
out Florida in a public awareness effort to
reduce the number of manatee deaths and in-
juries due to boat collisions.

February 1988

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

Visa Card Raises Funds for CEE Programs

In June 1986, CEE joined
forces with The Chase Manhattan
Bank to offer a new way for CEE
members to support our work on
behalf of whales, seals, sea turtles
and other marine wildlife. We in—
troduced The Chase Manhattan
CEE Visa Card, available exclu—
sively to CEE members and sup
porters. Each time the CEE Visa
Card is used, Chase will make a
contribution to support the imporr
tant work of CEE, at no extra cost
to you.

CEE Visa offers these beneﬁts:
no annual membership fee for the
ﬁrst year, a competitive interest
rate, and a 30 day grace period on
purchases. In addition, the CEE
Visa offers cash rewards on hotel,
motel, airline, rail and car rentals

. . . plus, $100,000 Common Car—

when these expenses are charged
to your CEE Visa Card.

Equally invaluable are the
beneﬁts to CEE. Three dollars is

' donated by Chase to CEE for every

credit card account that is ap—
proved. And each time you make a
purchase or take a cash advance
with this unique credit card, Chase
Manhattan will donate $.15 to
CEE.

And there’s more . . . 5% of
every hotel or motel room rate is
given to CEE when you make I'CS’
ervations through the 24’hour tollv
free Travel Center and charge it to
your CEE Visa Card.

Please take advantage of this
unique way to support marine wild—
life conservation efforts. For an ap—
plication call CEE today at (202)
429—5609.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

rier Travel Accident Insurance —Donna Brass
CREDIT DISCLOSURE CHART
. Cash Advance Fee Minimum
ANNUAL Variable Rate Annual Grace (Fee) FINANCE CHARGE, FINANCE
PERCENTAGE Index and Membership Period Transaction Fee, CHARGE On
RATE Spread Fee For Purchases Late Fee, and Purchases
Over-the-Limit Fee Balance
Cash Advance Fee: 2%
$20 of Each Cash Advance
17.5% No (Waived the 30 Days” Transaction Fee: None 50¢
first year of Late Fee: $5.00
membership) Over-the-Limit Fee: None
"The grace period is the full billing cycle. which can be less than or greater than 30 days depending on the number of days in the billing cycle.
There is no Purchases Finance Charge for a monthly billing cycle it the Purchases New Balance is paid and credited in lull by the end of that billing cycle. or ii the
Purchases previous balance is zero. If neither of these conditions apply, Finance Charges are imposed on Purchases from the day they are posted to your Account.
Finance Charges are imposed on Cash Advances from the day they are posted to your Account until payment in full is received.

 

 

 

be available in the cardmember fulfillment kit.

 

‘SERVICES DISCLOSURE
Most card services and features described are provided by independent suppliers. They may be changed or discontinued without notice. Restrictions may apply. Full details will

'TRAVEL ACCIDENT DISCLOSURE

The cost for the Common Carrier Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance (undenivritten by the Insurance Company of North America) is paid for by The Chase
Manhattan Bank (USA), MA. from revenues derived from its credit card program.

 

 

Safeway Receipts Can Help Austin Office

CEE members and friends who
shop at Safeway stores in the
Houston, TX division, which in—
cludes about 100 stores from AUSv
tin to Lake Jackson, Waco to
College Station, and Houston to
Beaumont, can help support CEE’s
Texas regional ofﬁce by mailing
their Safeway receipts to our Aus’
tin ofﬁce. We will then turn them
in to Safeway, and Safeway will
donate 1% of the total from the
receipts to CEE.

Safeway began this trial pro’
gram to help local nonvproﬁt or,

February 1988

ganizations in August 1987. “This
program is an attempt on Safeway’s
part to thank our customers by
supporting the organizations in
which they are involved. We feel
CEE’s programs are valuable,” said
Pamela Morris, Public Relations
Manager of the Houston Division.
If you’d like to help support
CEE’s regional ofﬁce, just save
your Safeway receipts and mail
them to CEE, 1201 West 24th
Street, Austin, TX 78705. Thank

you.

—Linda Maraniss

 

Action Alert!

Throughout this newsletv
ter we have made a number
of requests for citizen actiOn
on many issues. Here is a list
of addresses to contact:

0 in support of a strong Mav
rine Mammal Protection

Act (p. 12):
The Honorable [Your Sen—

ator]

United States Senate
Washington, DC 20510

The Honorable [Your Repa
resentative] '
US. House of Representav
tives

Washington, DC 20515

O in support of a strong En’
dangered Species Act (p. _
3): .

Your Senator
United States Senate
Washington, DC 20510

 

 

 

Whale Gifts Catalog

Many CEE members may not
know that CEE has a gift catalog
called Whale Gifts. The catalog
contains educational books and
games for children and adults, jer
elry, clothing, and items for the
home, all with marine animal or
ocean themes.

An average of 15% of the
proceeds from the sale of Whale
Gifts will beneﬁt CEE’s marine
conservation programs. CEE memv
bers receive a 10% discount on all
Whale Gift merchandise.

Write to CEE’s Washington,
DC address to receive the full’
color Spring 1988 catalog.

 

Annual Report

Copies of CEE’s latest Annual
Report are available to CEE mem—
bers and interested persons. Please
direct your request to Charlotte
Delahay, c/o CEE’s Washington,
DC address.

CEE REPORT 19

 




 

 

 

About the Southern Sea Otter

(Enhydra Iutris)

Sighting a sea otter off the
California coast is a special treat.
The smallest of the marine mam~
mals, sea otters swim on their
backs, propelling themselves with
their ﬂat hind feet. In this position
they feed, nurse, and groom them—
selves. Only to dive or escape in a
hurry do otters ﬂip over and swim
belly down.

Adult males weigh an average
of 64 pounds, while'females weigh
about 44 pounds. These relatively
small animals lack the insulating
blubber that most marine mammals
depend on for body warmth. In;
stead, their clean, luxuriant,
water’resistant fur keeps them
warm in the cold Paciﬁc. Air is
trapped between the hairs to main,
tain a layer of warm air between
the skin and the water.

Oil spills are a major threat to
sea otters, as oil slickened waters
will damage the fur. Once the fur
has been affected by oil it will no
longer be able to protect the sea
otter from the cold Paciﬁc waters.

Otters also need to consume
large quantities of energyvrich food
to maintain their body tempera
tures. Sea otters consume 25 per,
cent of their body weight in food
each day. Their diet includes a va
riety of invertebrates, such as sea
urchins, abalone, rock crabs,
clams, snails, mussels, and scalv

Southern sea otter, California. Photo: Richard Bucich

lops. Often these crafty animals
use rocks as tools to break open
their food.

In the early 17005 sea otters
ranged along a continuous band of
nearshore habitat in the northern
Paciﬁc Ocean from Japan to
Alaska down to Baja California,
Mexico. Commercial fur hunting
in the 18th and 19th centuries
nearly drove sea otters to extincr
tion. Only remnant populations
existed in the early 19003..

With state and federal protec—
tion the sea otter population in
California has grown from 50 ani—
mals in the 19505 to approximately

1,400 to 1,500 adult animals, conv
ﬁned to a 200rmile stretch of Cali’
fomia coast. This represents less
than 10 percent of the historical
California population of about
16,000 to 20,000.

Because a major oil spill could
wipe out the only sea otter popular
tion in California, the Fish and
Wildlife Service recently began
moving several otters to a site fur;
ther south in an attempt to estab~
lish a second sea otter colony (see
article p. 8).

—Susie G. Criswell
Susie was CEE’s Education Director
until moving to Arizona last August.

 

CENTER FOR ENVIRONMENTAL EDUCATION

1725 DeSales Street, NW
Washington, DC 20036
(202) 4295609

L 2ft UV. A.
f; I?- 1.
w A S H. .I ‘i {3:5 T {3.5%

S if: D :8 E 9 '{Q

a {ARDLIMA AVE 3

 

Non-Proﬁt Org.
U.S. Postage
PAID
Little Rock, AR
Permit No. 1004

 

 

 

20-083

 




HISBALAENAEUBALAENACAPEREAESCHRICHTIUS.
NIADELPHINUSTURSlOPSGRAMPUSSTENELLA“383441

0 6‘
$9.

a»?

(
'90 4G
90f
6%

Newsletter
of the

CETACEAN SPECIALIST
GROUP

g?

October 1989

.. V ‘ 5:9.” -.
‘. ’ ' ' ‘ ‘T' ‘ ~ /\
n‘- .. A._-.’-‘I’M‘M_ ..- ::.:‘_' ,-,.,. wit/7‘! ‘40; .j .1; ‘
33%» We“; ﬁxinyc-m‘awy" ‘ 15:» "35, .‘i v
.~ 713.72 .- 19"”. '4, Wk

. ‘3’..‘;..-.-.rw._zk’i vr 4J2
"‘- v) \‘ w " "
" Q‘Dm‘ggcs! _,

Edited by W. F. Perrin, Chairman
P.O. Box 271. La Jolla. California 92037. U.S.A.

' 99" ‘3
IN VlV'IdVNBVOOHdOBNSSOIONSOOOHdVNBOOOHdSﬂHONAHHO'IV Haggayéo
S Viv 113VOHOSDHBldVNlHd1SONOOONOWVIOOMUBLHSAHdVHSldVOSW‘d

UNION INTERNATIONALE POUR LA CONSERVATION DE LA NATURE ET DE SES RESSOURCES
INTERNATIONAL UNION FOR CONSERVATION OF NATURE AND NATURAL RESOURCES

IQS

058 ALAENOPTERAMEGAPTERAPHYSETERKOGIAMONODONDELPHINAPTERU
‘1!

‘0

Q

I
O
2
>.
I
(I
0
Z
LLI
(5
<
.J
S
.J
<
p...
O
0)
O
2
DJ
'—
(D
<
_l
<
I
0.
NJ
9
m
0
_I
0
(D
D
_Z_
0
a:
O
<
0
cc
0
D
D
LLI
(D
O.-
4

‘8:

(iv

41,]
Qty

5'
<9

COMMISSION DE LA SAUVEGARDE DES ESPECES - SPECIES SURVIVAL COMMISSION

Q9
95“

y.
C)

/\
o» 0

e
SVSHEdVOVNBV‘IVSnEVNEV'IVSVIHOdOlNOdSaj‘aag
ONOdadNoaooaadAHsnIHdIZNoamdosawsmO‘d

9’
5»

‘1')
0:90 9

 




This newsletter appears at irregular intervals, roughly once a year. It is available without charge to
non-members of the CSG; please write to the editor if you wish to be placed on the mailing list.

Membership of the Cetacean Specialist Group:

Alex Aguilar, Spain

Moh’d Amour Al Barwani, Oman

John L. Bannister, Australia

Jay Barlow, U.S.A.

Peter B. Best, South Africa

Idelisa Bonnelly de Calventi, Dominican Republic

P.J.H. van Bree, Netherlands

Robert L. Brownell, Jr., U.S.A.

Martin Cawthom, New Zealand

Douglas G. Chapman, U.S.A.‘

Ivar Christensen, Norway

Anne Collet, France

Justin Cooke, Federal Republic of Germany

Enrique A. Crespo, Argentina

Luis A. Fleischer, Mexico

Ray Gambell, U.K.

David E. Gaskin, Canada

A.K.M. Aminul Haque, Bangladesh

R. Natalie Goodall, Argentina

John E. Heyning, U.S.A.

Toshio Kasuya, Japan

Khan Mohammad Khan, Pakistan

Margaret Klinowska, U.K.

J. Stephen Leatherwood, U.S.A.

Helene Marsh, Australia

Alec D. McCall, U.S.A(Chairman Quantitative
Analysis Subgroup)

James G. Mead, U.S.A.

Edward Mitchell, Canada

RS. Lal Mohan, India

Mohammad Sadiq Niazi, Pakistan

Kenneth S. Norris, U.S.A.

Simon Northridge, U.K.*

Seiji Ohsumi, Japan

Jorge A. Oporto, Chile

Chen Peixun, People’s Republic of China

William F. Perrin (Chairman)

Ricardo Praderi, Uruguay

Julio C. Reyes, Peru

 

Dale W. Rice,'U.S.A.

Aldemaro Romero, Venezuela
Fernando C. W. Rosas, Brazil

Graham]. B. Ross, Australia

Tej Kumar Shrestha, Nepal

Michael F. Tillman, U.S.A.’

Hal Whitehead, Canada"

Alexey V. Yablokov, U.S.S.R.

Zhou Kaiya, People’s Republic of China

"Member of Quantitative Analysis Subgroup

Members and others are urged to submit information for possible inclusion in future issues

Cover: Drawing by Ken Raymond

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

GILLNET PROBLEMS
ON THE RISE

Gillnets are very efficient in
catching fish. Unfortunately, they
also kill other marine animals effi-
ciently and indiscriminately.
Gillnet fisheries are proliferating
and expanding around the world,
and the incidental kills of
cetaceans (and pinnipeds, birds,
turtles, sharks and undersized or
non-target fish) are growing
rapidly and getting increasing at-
tention in conservation circles and
in the media. The damage done
by the thousands of miles of
pelagic driftnets now in use has
received the most attention, but
similar problems exist in hun-
dreds of coastal fixed-net fisheries,
many of them in the less-
developed nations, where data
collection, management and en-
forcement are often extremely dif-
ficult. The problems of
assessment and regulation are ex-
acerbated by the fact that the inter-
national aid agencies have pushed
gillnets as cheap, efficient, and
suitable for artesanal fisheries.

In the coming year, the CSG
will give major attention to gillnet
problems. This will include
preparation and submission of
proposals for funding of projects
listed in the Action Plan that relate
to gillnets (about half of the 44
projects in the Plan) and organiza-
tion of an international conference

 

 

on the technical aspects of the
problem (described below). Fol-
lowing are brief summaries of
some of the relevant issues and
events.

Italian gillnetters kill whales
and dolphins illegally

A drift gillnet fishery for
swordfish in the waters surround-
ing the Italian Peninsula is es-
timated to kill thousands of
dolphins and hundreds of whales
annually. In a recent report to the
Scientific Committee of the IWC,
Giuseppe Notarbartolo di Sciara
of the Center for Cetacean Studies
(Centro Studi Cetacei) head-
quartered in Milan described the
results of a limited unofficial sur-
vey of stranded carcasses and
animals found dead or entangled
at sea. In 1988, 92 whales and dol—
phins were found entangled or
dead on the beach with clear signs
of having been entangled. These
included 9 sperm whales, one
Cuvier’s beaked whale, 10 pilot
whales, five Risso’s dolphins, 8
bottlenose dolphins, 39 striped
dolphins and 20 unidentified
cetaceans. The survey was limited
to only a small part of the area of
the ﬁshery. In addition to the fact
that there is no organized
monitoring of the fishery, most in-
cidental catches are believed to be
actively concealed by the fisher—
men, because they are illegal and
because of a wish to avoid adverse
publicity. One method used is to
sink the carcasses by tying them to
large stones. The populations of
cetaceans in Italian waters have
not been assessed, but there is con-
cern that the large and unregu-
lated kills may be more than can
be sustained without decline in
abundance in the long term, espe-
cially considering the many other
environmental abuses affecting
the Mediterranean. Additional
problems caused by the swordfish
gillnetters include the hazards to

 

navigation of unmarked nets,
abuse of emergency radio fre-
quencies, and possibly depletion
of the swordfish resource itself.
The following petition to several
ministries of the Italian Govern-
ment and to officials of the
European Community has been
circulated jointly by several or-
ganizations, including the Center
for Cetacean Studies, the Tethys
Institute, WWF-Italy, "Marevivo",
the CETACEA Foundation and
others:

"ENOUGH WITH THE KILL-
ING OF CETACEANS CAUSED
BY THE SWORDFISH FISHERY!

CONSIDERED THAT

— alone among all Mediterranean
Countries, Italy has allowed the
massive proliferation of pelagic
driftnet fishing activities, mainly
used to capture swordfish, with a
ﬂeet numbering more than 700 ves-
sels and with a total net length ex-
ceeding 15,000 km, i.e. almost twice
the entire length of the Italian
coastline;

— this fishing activity causes every
year, in the waters surrounding the
Italian Peninsula alone, the in-
cidental death of thousands of dol-
phins and hundreds of larger
cetaceans belonging to various
species, including several sperm
whales;

— fishermen, to protect their nets
and to elude the Italian law which
protects all cetaceans, brutally
mutilate the dolphins that are
caught still alive, and sink the
drowned specimens to conceal
them;

— this non-selective fishing method
is rapidly depleting the Italian seas
of numerous species, also rare, and
of the swordﬁsh itself, which is
often captured below the size per-
mitted by the law, thus attracting
the hostility of all other categories
of fishermen;

- these huge obstructions, often in-
sufficiently marked, constitute a

 




 

constant and serious danger for
navigation, especially for pleasure
boats, causing numerous foreign
yachts to desert the Italian seas; -
the constant abuse and congestion,
by the swordfish fishermen, of the
emergency radio frequency (chan-
nel 16 VHF -‘ 156.800 kHz) is a fur-
ther cause of discomfort and
danger for navigation;

- if appropriate and timely action
is not taken, it is most likely that the
cetacean populations of the Italian
seas, already depleted and
threatened by numerous other fac-
tors, will be at risk of extinction by
the year 2000;

PETITION

that fishing with pelagic driftnets
be promptly outlawed in Italy, and
that the resumption of alternative
fishing methods, of proven selec-
tivity, be encouraged.

San Remo, 9 August 1989"

Further information can be ob-
tained from G. Notarbartolo di
Sciara, Centro Studi Cetacei,
Museo Civico di Storia Naturale,
‘corso Venezia 55, 20121 Milano,
Italy (FAX 06 392 2940 1987) or
Pier Lorenzo Florio, Director
TRAFFIC(Ita1y), via Salaria 290,
00199 Roma (FAX 06 868334).

 

New Zea land and Australia
ban driftnetters

In response to greatly increas-
ing activity in the southern hemi-
sphere by driftnet fleets from
Taiwan, Japan and South Korea,

 

the governments of New Zealand
and Australia have banned drift
gillnetting within their ZOO-mile
exclusive ecOnomic zones and are
urging other nations in the South
Pacific to do the same. The bans
extend to the possession of large
drift gillnets by any fishing craft,
trans-shipment of drift-net
catches and port access to drift
gillnet vessels. In a press state-
ment issued in May, Deputy
Prime Minister Geoffrey Palmer
and several other ministers char-
acterized the use of drift gillnets as
"abhorrent", saying that "their im-
pact on fish resources is vandalis-
tic and can destroy the viability of
fisheries industries in the South
Pacific". The ministers also ex-
pressed their alarm at the dis-
astrous consequences the nets had
on marine mammals. They stated
in relation to the enforcement of a
possible cooperative ban
throughout the South Pacific,

"To add teeth to these efforts,
we are prepared to provide aerial
surveillance supported by a naval
vessel to maintain a watch on the
operations of drift gillnet vessels
and to patrol the EEZs of countries
taking similar measures as us that
request our help."

Australia had previously (1986)
prohibited use of long drift
gillnets off its northern coast be-
cause of dolphin kills in a fishery
formerly operated there, mainly
by Taiwan. In July, Prime Mini-
ster R.J.L. Hawke announced an
expansion of the ban in his State-
ment on the Environment,

"We will extend the net length
restriction to cover the whole of
the Australian Fishing Zone, con-
tinue to deny access by driftnet
vessels to Australian ports, except
in cases of emergency, and
prevent transshipment of fish
caught by driftnets in the Zone."

 

 

He said further,

"Driftnetting is a global prob-
lem and there is an urgent need for
international action to put an end
to this barbarous form of fishing.
Accordingly, Australia will press
for a global ban on driftnet fish-
ing."

The two Australasian nations
thus join Canada, the U.S., Peru,
Vanuatu, Fiji and American
Samoa in prohibiting the use of
large-scale commercial driftnets
in their waters. To quote the
Earthtrust report "Stripmining the
Seas, A Global Perspective on
Driftnet Fisheries",

"Even Japan, which fields over
half of the world’s active driftnet
vessels, has expelled these ships
from its coastal waters, requiring
by law in 1981 that squid driftnet-
ters establish operations east of
170 degrees E longitude - more
than 1000 miles from the Japanese
mainland. This move was
prompted when it became ap-
parent that commercial squid
driftnetters were not only
threatening the livelihood of
thousands of coastal fishermen,
but promoting the collapse of
Japan’s offshore fisheries as well.
This has not prevented the
Japanese and others from seeking
to establish driftnet fisheries in the
coastal waters of other nations, or
in international waters where the
fleets freely operate without
restriction."

The U.S. Government has
recently taken a hard line with
Japan, Taiwan and South Korea
on the question of driftnetting on
the high seas, in particular the
North Pacific with its valuable
and vulnerable salmon and al-
bacore fisheries. Agreements for
placement of observers aboard
some vessels to collect data on
catches of mammals, birds, turtles

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

and undersized fish have been
negotiated with all three nations.
The agreements also call for the
use of radio locator beacons to
monitor the ﬂeets, as well as con-
taining provisions for gear restric-
tions, enforcement, bans on the
catch of anadromous fish, etc. A
bill introduced in the US. Con-
gress in July 1989 (HR. 2958)
would require that the Secretary
of State seek to secure an interna-
tional agreement to ban the use of
driftnets on the high seas.

Exploratory gillnetting kills
whales and dolphins in
Micronesia

The following is abstracted
from the report of an observer on
board the Japanese fishing boat
Monju Maru during an ex-
ploratory drift-gillnetting trip in
waters of the Federated States of
Micronesia in February and
March, this year.

The voyage was a joint venture
between the Yap Marine Develop-
ment Venture and the Monju
Suisan Company Limited,
authorized through a special ar-
rangement between Japan and
Yap State. The observer, Robert
Goldblatt, was contracted by

 

 

 

 

Yap’s Marine Resource Manage-
ment Division. The vessel was a
100-foot gillnet boat, carrying ap-
proximately 18miIes.QLg13depet
separated into 9 nets ap-
proximately 2 miles long and 25
feet deep. The mesh size was 3
inches. The nets were set in the
evening and pulled in the early
morning, with total soaking time
of 7-14 hours. The catch included
skipjack tuna and other scombrid
fishes (65% of the fish frozen and
stored), billfish (42%), mahi mahi
(24%), sharks (23%), manta rays,
various small non-commercial
fishes (16% of the total catch, all
discarded), whales, dolphins, and
turtles. Dolphins were caught in
19 of the total 24 sets made apd
whales 1n 3; the total catch wadg] 2
dolphins (average 3 per set) and 1 1;"
whales (average about 1 /2 whale
per set). Ten turtles were caught,
in 9 sets. The cetaceans were not
identified to species. One whale
was noted as weighing "several
tons". The whales that could be
handled by the winches were
brought aboard and butchered,
the meat being stored frozen for
return to Japan. The dolphlnsii?
were discarded. Dolphins still’
alive When the nets were pulled
had their ﬂukes c11t off to facilitate
removal from the mesh. Two
leatherback turtles were released

 

 

M,

 

alive but injured; of the remaining
8 turtles (juvenile hawksbills and
greens and one tentatively iden-
tified olive ridley), 4 were frozen
(one alive), 2 were maintained
alive on deck for later use, and 2
were discarded dead. Much of the
fish catch was also discarded, be-
cause of undesirability, small size,
damage by sharks, or decomposi-
tion due to prolonged time in the
net.

The observer concluded in his
report that the drift-gillnet
method was wasteful and general-
ly destructive of marine life and
recommended strongly that no
more permits be issued by the
Federated States of Micronesia.
Inquiries can be directed to
Marine Resources Management
Division, PO. Box 251, Colonia,
Yap 96943, Federated States of
Micronesia.

The vaquita still needs help

The plight of the vaqu1ta, the
endemic porpoise restricted to the
upper Gulf of California (Phocoena
sinus) and arguably one of the
least known and most endangered
cetaceans, is receiving more atten-
tion in the Mexican press, but in-
cidental kill in the gillnet fisheries
in the Gulf is still not being
monitored on a regular basis. A
grant to the Mexican organization
CEDO from the Center for Marine
Co'ﬁservation in 1988 allowed a
pilot monitoring effort (Anon,
1989c). They interviewed a
sample of the fishermen that
operated 816 boats fishing in the
same areas, at the same depths
and during the same seasons that
vaquitas are captured and found
that 93% used the type of gillnet
that entangles vaquitas. CEDO
recommends the suspension of all
gillnet fishing, especially the use
of 5 and 6-inch mesh nets, in the
northern Gulf of California.

 




 

 

 

 

 

Omar Vidal of the Guaymas
Campus of the Instituto
Tecnologico y de Estudios Supe—
riores de Monterrey (ITESM)
reports efforts to educate the
public and government officials
about the uncertain future of the
species. A lengthy illustrated ar-
ticle by Vidal and other staff of the
institute appeared recently in 10
newspapers scattered throughout
Mexico. However, severe fund-
ing limitations prevent the re-
search needed to adequately
assess the size and impact of the
gillnet kills and to determine what
might be done to reduce them. 11-
legal gillnetting for the totoaba (a
large sciaenid fish, itself en-
dangered) and legal fisheries for
sharks and other species continue
at many localities around the
upper Gulf and are largely un-
monitored.

Greg Silber, a graduate student
at the Institute of Marine Sciences
of the University of California at
Santa Cruz, writes in a letter to the
Editor (October, 1988),

"I endorse the group’s opinion
that the biggest threat to the por-
poise is that of totoaba gillnetters.
In the coming months I will com-
plete data analysis of four seasons
of field work on the porpoise. My
principal interest is the study of
the relative abundance, ecology,
and behavior of the porpoise (we
have now accumulated 47 sight-
ings of the vaquita), and not in
interviewing fishermen or quan-
tifying the fishing effort. None-
theless, it is apparent that the
vaquita population continues to
receive considerable impact from
this source. In the 1988 season
alone we recovered three vaquita
carcasses, two of which were
gillnet victims, and the third may
[also] have died as a result of en-
tanglement. Opportunistic con-
versations indicate that fishermen
are well aware of the vaquita and

 

openly acknowledge that they en-
tangle the porpoise in their nets.

"It is my hope that my work
might shed new light on the ecol-
ogy and distribution of the va-
quita, such that future gillnet
fishing might be restricted to loca-
tions where the vaquita is not
present."

Silber’s work has been sup-
ported by the Nature Con-
servancy’s international program
and the Center for Marine Conser-
vation.

The population size is un-
known but probably very small,
possibly less than one hundred
but also possibly a thousand or
more (Barlow, 1986; Silber, 1987a
and b, 1988a and b); the informa-
tion required to make a reliable
estimate does not exist. Survey
conditions are very difﬁcult in the
turbid upper Gulf, and the
porpoise’s unobtrusive habits
make finding and counting them
even more difficult. The external
appearance of the animal was not
even well known until 1985
(Brownell et al., 1987). The CSG
has given highest priority in its
Action Plan to the need for
monitoring the scattered gillnet
fisheries in order to estimate in-
cidental mortality. Following one
year of fishery monitoring, a
report would be submitted to the
Mexican government, with
recommendations for fishery
management actions and an
educational program to increase
lay awareness of the uniqueness
of this endemic Mexican species
and the threat to its survival. The
cost estimate for one year of
monitoring, data collation, and
preparation of the report is
$20,000. Funds for this crucial
work are currently not available in
Mexico. Mexican cetologists
stand ready to begin the monitor-

 

ing as soon as international sup-
port can be found.

Further information can be ob-
tained from CSG member Luis A.
Fleischer (Centro de Inves-
tigaciones Pesqueras, Kml Car-
retera a Pichilingue, La Paz, B.C.S.,
Mexico), Greg Silber (Institute of
Marine Sciences, University of
California, Santa Cruz, California
95064, U.S.A.) or Omar Vidal (Es-
cuela de Ciencias Maritimas y
Alimentarias, ITESM, Apartado
Postal 484, Guaymas, Sonora,
85400 Mexico).

Gillnets may threaten harbor
porpoise in Canada and 11.5.

After an examination of the na-
ture, magnitude and impact of in-
cidental catches of harbor
porpoises by groundfish gillnets
in the southwestern Bay of Fundy
in 1986, Andrew]. Read and CSG
member David Gaskin (1988) at
the University of Guelph con-
cluded that, given the slow
reproductive rate of the harbor
porpoise, the incidental catch of
around 100 per year in combina-
tion with other takes seriously
threatens the population of the
species in the region. Porpoises in
the Bay of Fundy and Gulf of
Maine apparently form a discrete
population unit. Since 1973, two
significant changes in length fre-
quencies have occurred (an in-
crease in length of calves and an
absence of large porpoises in the
1986 sample). These changes may
be attributable to the gillnet
fishery, which has been operating
for 10-15 years. Porpoises from
the same population are also
caught in other gillnet fisheries in
the Gulf of Maine; data to support
reliable estimation of the inciden-
tal kill there do not exist, but the
kill may lie between about 300 and
800 (Polacheck, 1989). The
University of Guelph studies sug-
gest that this may be affecting the

 

 

 

 




 

 

population of 5,000-18,000 adver-
sely, but better population es-
timates are needed. Research to
develop reliable census survey
techniques is underway by the
US. National Marine Fisheries
Service (Polacheck, 1989). On the
other side of the border, Canada’s
Fisheries and Oceans department
seems little interested in address-
ing the problem of incidental por-
poise kill.

Comments by Tom Polacheck
on the problem of conﬂict between
porpoises and gillnet fisheries are
trenchant and worth quoting in ex-
tenso,

"One avenue of porpoise
protection is gear modification
that might reduce or eliminate the
incidental take, such as making
the nets more ’visible’ to the por-
poise sonar system. Similar re—
search in other fisheries with other
small cetaceans has not been suc-
cessful in the past [see article
below], but one always remains
hopeful."

"If it is true that harbor por-
poises are attracted to the gillnets
as a source of food, then eliminat-
ing or reducing the incidental kills
would most likely require
seasonally prohibiting gillnetting
on many of the fishery’s best
grounds. Such an action could
threaten the viability of the
fishery.

"The problem of the incidental
take of harbor porpoise ex-
emplifies some of the problems
that face both the marine scientist
and society with regard to the in-
teraction of marine mammals and
commercial fisheries. Both are
highly valued and represent is-
sues of concern to various seg-
ments of society. The total
number of animals killed may not
appear large to some, and fisher-
men may find it hard to believe

 

that their incidental takes are of
any significance. However, the
populations of small marine
mammals tend to be highly vul-
nerable to low levels of exploita-
tion (article, pp. 5-11). On the
other hand, commercial fisheries
represent peoples’ livelihoods
and way of life. Fisheries, par—
ticularly those operating at small
scales, often cannot sustain large
additional costs and remain com-
petitive.

"As critical as the need for more
information may be, resources for
research are scarce and many im-
portant projects compete for
limited funds. Population biology
studies of marine mammals are
expensive compared to those of
land mammals, and the informa-
tion required for assessment calls
for long-term studies. Moreover,
even the best possible assessments
are likely to be imprecise, leaving
large uncertainties. Yet, these dif-
ficulties should not be used as an
excuse to do nothing. On conser-
vation issues, ignorance has too
often resulted in inaction. Com-
peting concerns need to be
balanced, and reasonable solu-
tions found."

 

Modifying gillnets may not
help

In a review recently submitted
for publication in a technical jour-
nal, Steve Dawson of Canterbury
University in New Zealand has

 

concluded that net modifications
tried to date have not been suc-
cessful in reducing entanglement
of cetaceans in gillnets and that
reductions in mortality are best
achieved through closure of
specific areas to gillnetting. He
discussed the methods and results
of unsuccessful attempts to reduce
entanglement through net
modifications in the Japanese sal-
mon gillnet fishery in the North
Pacific (which takes mainly Dall’s
porpoise), in the now defunct
Taiwanese shark fishery in waters
of Northern Australia (which took
tropical dolphins), and in South
Africa, where gillnets used to
protect bathing beaches kill bot-
tlenose dolphins and other dol-
phins.

Most of the attempts to reduce
entanglement through net
modification have involved trying
to make the net more "visible"
acoustically to the animals, by the
use of acoustic reflectors, such as
air bubbles trapped in the net
twine or attachment of air-filled
tubing, and sound emitters. Daw-
son argues that since experimental
work has shown that small
cetaceans such as harbor porpoise
can easily detect even unmodified
nets, they become entangled not
because their sonar system cannot
detect the nets, but because they
make mistakes that sometimes
result in entanglement. He posits
two kinds of possible mistakes:
the animal may have an acoustic
search image of what it expects to
encounter and therefore not per-
ceive non-target objects or
pingers, or it may not be using its
sonar and therefore be unaware of
the net’s presence. Dolphins and
porpoises are certainly capable of
learning to be on the lookout for
warnings of the presence of nets,
but the animals that blunder into
nets of course usually do not sur-
vive to make use of their ex-
perience. In addition, there is

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

the problem that the cetaceans
may feed on the gillnet-caught
fish or on the other scavengers
feeding on them. In this case, a
sound-emitter is efffective a "din-
ner bell" and may actually in-
crease entanglements.

Dawson concludes that be-
cause "making nets more acousti-
cally reflective and placing
warning devices in them are un-
likely to achieve better than mar-
ginal reductions in the
entanglement rate of dolphins and
porpoises",..."the management
strategy most likely to achieve ef-
fective protection of cetacean
populations from gillnet entangle-
ment is the closure of specific
areas to gillnetting.." He adds,

"Detailed data on the location
of fishing effort, if available, can
help identify which areas should
be protected" "However,
management decisions should not
be based solely on such
data."..."Management strategies
must take into account that ﬁshing
is an extremely dynamic industry,
and that the location and amount
of fishing effort often change
markedly between seasons. For
this reason areas subject to low
fishing effort may warrant in-
clusion into an area closure if they
support significant marine mam-

 

 

mal populations that would be at
risk if gillnet fishing effort in-
creased."

Steve Dawson’s address is
Department of Zoology, Univer-
sity of Canterbury, Christchurch
1, New Zealand.

International conference
planned.

The lengtawaited meeting on
gillnets and cetaceans may finally
materialize. The conference, to be
titled Mortality of Cetaceans in
Fishing Traps and Nets will be or-
ganized by the Scientific Commit-
tee of the IWC and is planned to
take place in October, 1990 at the
Southwest Fisheries Center in La
Jolla, California. It will consist of
a two-day symposium of invited
and unsolicited technical papers
and an invited workshop of 30 or
so specialists. The main charges to
the workshop will be:

(1) to identify and describe new
and expanding net and trap
fisheries which take cetaceans;

(2) to investigate how and why en-
tanglement occurs;

(3) to the extent possible, estimate
mortality and assess its impact on
cetacean populations; and

(4) to consider possible ways of
reducing levels of net-caused
mortality of cetaceans.

The products of the workshop
will include:

(1) a list and summary descriptions
of gillnet and trap fisheries that
take or potentially could take
cetaceans, with lists of the species
involved;

(2) a species-by-species summary,
listing cetacean takes by popula-
tion and fishery and assessing the
impacts of the takes;

 

(3) an analysis of the causes of en-
tanglement and assessment of
technology and alternatives for
reducing the incidental takes; and

(4) recommendations for (a)
documentation of takes, (b) re-
search to develop methods for
reducing takes, and (c) manage-
ment actions.

The estimated budget for the
meeting is approximately $40,000.
Most of this will be used to pay
travel and perdiem costs for par-
ticipants from the less developed
nations and for a limited number
of experts, such as a behavioral
scientist, a sensory physiologist,
and a gear expert. About half the
needed funds have been pledged,
by WWF-Sweden, the Govern-
ment of New Zealand, the US.
Marine Mammal Commission,
the Southwest Fisheries Center of
the US. National Marine Fisheries
Service, and IUCN.

The IWC steering group for the
meeting is presently trying to find
the rest of the funds needed and
preparing a draft list of invited
participants. The IWC steering
group includes Bill Perrin (US),
Bob Brownell (U.S.), Tom Ambom
(Sweden), John Harwood (U.I(.),
Linda Jones (US) and Toshio
Kasuya (Japan). The local or-
ganizing committee consists of
Perrin, Brownell, Jones, Doug De-
Master and Jay Barlow.

It will be crucial to involve par-
ticipants from the developing na-
tions that are placing high priority
on coastal and offshore fishery
development. The amount of
money that can be raised will
determine how many of these
people can be included. Anyone
interested in helping support this
important meeting should con-
tact Bill Perrin as soon as possible
(FAX 01 619 546 7003).

—

~I"

 




 

1‘

 

 

REPORT OF CSG
CHAIRMAN TO
MEETING OF IUCN
SPECIES SURVIVAL
COMMISSION

Rome, August 20-22,
1989

"This will be a short report. As
some of you know, we issued an
Action Plan last year, covering the
5-year period 1988-1992. The plan
concentrates on the small
cetaceans, because we believe that
the greatest problems are there.
Some of the small cetaceans are in
imminent danger of extinction, in
particular some of the river dol-
phins.

The plan list 44 specific projects
and actions that the Group
believes should go forward.
Eleven are considered to be of the
highest priority. Most of these (8)
are concerned with river dolphins;
the remaining three relate to the
incidental kill of vaquitas in the
Gulf of California, the illegal use
of small cetaceans for crab bait in
southern South America, and the
need for a workshop on gillnets
and cetaceans.

We cannot say that our
progress in implementing the plan
has been tremendous, but we can

 

report some achievements for
several of the recommended ac-
tions. I’ll summarize these in the
order in which the projects are
listed in the plan.

Project 15. We recommended that
the status of the common dolphin
in the western Mediterranean be
assessed because of a possible great
decline in the population there.
This was to include research on the
stock identity of dolphins in the
western Mediterranean and the ad-
jacent North Atlantic. Alex
Aguilar of the University of Bar-
celona has received a grant from
the National Science Foundation
(NSF) U.S.-Spain Program to begin
the work, using tagging and sight-
ing surveys, and the ﬁrst report
will be due in October.

Project 35. A high-priority project
for the severely endangered baiji,
or Chinese river dolphin, is to con-
tinue monitoring of the popula-
tion. Prof. Zhou Kaiya of Nanjing
Normal University has just in-
formed me that he has received
partial funding for this from WWF
International.

Project 36. Another of the high-
priority items for the baiji is to
determine individual movements
and population structure. Bernd
Wuersig of Texas A & M University
has begun this work with funding
from WWF, under a joint research
agreement with the Academia
Sinica and Nanjing Normal
University. In addition, the Inter-
national Whaling Commission
(IWC) funded two Chinese stu-
dents to attend the recent IWC-
sponsored workshop on
photo-identification methods for
cetacean assessment, and they
have returned to China and made
a good start on cataloging the in-
dividual dolphins in the baiji
population (about 300).

Project 39. We are happy to report
that good progress has been made
toward saving Hector’ 5 dolphin,
which is endemic to New Zealand.
The New Zealand Government has
established a sanctuary to protect
the species from gillnetting and has

 

started programs to monitor trends
in abundance and to obtain better
information on kill rates. This has
been primarily due to the efforts of
Steve Dawson and Elizabeth
Slooten of Canterbury University
in Christchurch, but international

expressions of concern seem to
have helped.

Project 40. Very many of the
problems that cetaceans face are
caused by fisheries, and some of
the worst problems are caused by
gillnets. We recommended that an
international workshop be con-
vened to examine the problem of
gillnets and cetaceans. We are very
happy to announce that the meet-
ing will take place in October, next
year, in La Jolla, California. [See
article above.)

The 44 projects listed in the ac-
tion plan will cost about $1 mil-
lion. So far, we’ve succeeded in
raising only a small fraction of
that. Ninety percent of the
projects remain to be initiated.
Many of these relate to situations
where species or populations
most definitely will disappear in
this century unless there is inter-
vention. The most severe crises
are in the Indian Sub-continent
and in China. The most recent
news is that the susu has disap-
peared from the Karnaphuli River
above the Kaptai Dam in
Bangladesh, apparently because
of poaching. This is a very large
piece of habitat, now empty of dol-
phins. In another piece of grim
news, it is estimated that construc-
tion of the proposed Three Gorges
Dam on the Yangtze River will
destroy dolphin habitat along 200
km of the river below the dam and
reduce the carrying capacity of
another 150 km of the river by 41-
71%. And, of course, there is the
recent information out of the
meeting of the Scientific Commit-
tee of the IWC that the Antarctic
population of the blue whale may

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

be much smaller than had been
previously estimated. [See article
below]. The crisis for the
cetaceans continues and grows.
We need to move on these
projects, and the Cetacean
Specialist Group would very
much welcome any assistance or
advice on how to proceed." [Some
advice was received; see article
below on CSG’s plans for stepped-
up activities]

 

RIVER DOLPHIN
NEWS

The CSG continues to place
high priority on the severe
problems faced by the river dol-
phins.

Susu studied in Indian reserve

In a paper submitted tow
PAPERI R. J. Rao, S. A. Hussain
and R. K. Sharma reviewed re-
search on the susu in the National
Chambal Sanctuary, a crocodile
sanctuary in Madhya Pradesh. A
survey in the mid-19805 found 45
dolphins in a 305-km stretch of the
Chambal River. Subsequent sur-
veys by different teams recorded
43 dolphins in 265 km and, in 1988,
50 dolphins in 320 km. These
numbers (all about 6 dolphins per
km) are remarkably stable. The
authors note that protection of
crocodiles has also resulted in
protection of dolphins. They
recommend that enforcement of
existing laws protecting dolphins
and their habitat outside the
reserve be improved. Further in-
formation is available from R. I.
Rao, Deori Gharial Rearing
Centre, National Chambal
Sanctuary, PO. Box 11, Morena,
476 001 M.P., India.

 

Baiji added to 11.5.
Endangered Species List

The US. Department of Inte-
rior’s Fish and Wildlife Service
has placed the severely depleted
and baiji, Lipotes vexillifer, on the
List of Endangered and
Threatened Wildlife after a deter-
mination by the National Marine
Fishery Service that the species is
endangered. The action, effective
June 29, 1989, gives the US.
Government a mandate to assist
China in planning for recovery of
the species if that nation so re-
quests. The other river dolphins
(Platanista gangetica, P. minor, Inia
geoffrensis and Pontoporia blainvil-
lei) are under review for possible
addition to the List.

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

 

 

Costs of the Three Gorges
Dam outweigh benefits

As noted above (Report of
Chairman to meeting of SSC), con-
struction of the proposed high
dam at the Three Gorges on the
Yangtze River (Chang Iiang)
would destroy much of the habitat
of the baiji. (See also last year’s
newsletter). A review in World
Development by Philip M.
Fearnside suggests that there
would be other, perhaps unaccep-
table costs as well. The abstract of
the paper follows: "China’s
plans for the Three Gorges Dam
on the Yangzi River imply costs
that go far beyond the dam’s sub-
stantial monetary price. The con-
sequences would be catastrophic
should the dam fail as a result of
warfare, earthquakes, or other

 

causes. Resettlement of popula-
tion displace by the reservoir,
especially farmers, presents a for-
midable obstacle in the land
around the reservoir site. Reset-
tlement could affect minority
groups if population is moved to
border areas. The reservoir
would sacrifice cultural
landmarks. Erosion and reservoir
siltation may impede navigation
with a few years, and in the longer
term will reduce storage volume.
Impacts on natural habitats and
human structures downstream of
the dam include a variety of chan-
ges caused by greater streamflow
at the low-water period and by
reduced sediment load. The
major justification for building the
dam is ﬂood control; alternatives
include reforestation in the water-
shed, smaller dams on upper
tributaries, and reversing the
movement of population to
dangerously exposed areas along
the middle and lower Yangzi.
Electricity could be produced
more cheaply and quickly from
smaller dams elsewhere. Energy
conservation and population con-
trol are more cost effective ways of
increasing per capita power supp-
ly. Installation of infrastructure

 

an 1-»-




-” “-

for construction at the damsite
before impact assessment in com-
plete raises doubts about the place
of environmental evaluation in
China’s decision process." At last
word in the press, the Three Gor-
ges project was on hold, for un-
clear reasons but probably having
to do with finances. The effects of
the current purges on the young
environmental movement in
China are unknown.

Dam in Bangladesh causes
local extinction of dolphins

The Ganges susu, Platanista
gangetica, has disappeared from
the portion of the Kamafuli River
above the Kaptai Dam. A few dol-
phins remain in the estuarine
region below the dam. The dam
has created a permanent barrier
across the river blocking the
movements of the dolphins. The
dolphins trapped above the dam
were exposed to poaching, espe-
cially during the summer months,
and have been exterminated.
Fishermen in the region day that
they have not seen dolphins above
the dam for several years. Dol-
phins below the dam are also
threatened, by heavy pollution,
increased fishing activities and
vessel traffic. Untreated domestic
waste and discharges from metal-
lurgical factories pollute the es-
tuary. The maximum
concentration of zinc found in the
estuary is 0.5 mg/l. It has been
observed that concentration as
low as 0.3 ppm are lethal to snails
and certain fishes. In a recent
study of the hydrology of the es—
tuary by Hossain and others, it
was found that dissolved oxygen
varied between 3.3 and 6.2 mg/l,
whereas BOD ranged between 1.8
and 4.8 mg/l. All this indicates
the degradation of the estuary that
has occurred and the danger to
wildlife there. The river dolphin
workshop held in Wuhan, China

 

in 1986 highlighted the dangers
posed by construction of dams
without giving adequate thought
to impacts on dolphin popula-
tions and the riverine fauna in
general. The results of the con-
struction of the Kaptai Dam
should be a warning to agencies
planning construction of dams on
other rivers inhabited by dol-
phins. The information cited
here was obtained with the
cooperation of residents of Chit—
tagong and the banks of the Kar-
nafuli.

-—-Submitted by csc member R. S.
La] Mohan, 8/18, Gandhinagar, Calicut,
673005, Kerala, India.

, " CONSERVE YOUR l'
_ ' NATURAL HERITAGE

THERE MAY ”/2“
TIME 2%

  

River dolphin volume
published

The proceedings of the
Workshop on Biology and Con-
servation of the Platanistoid Dol-
phins held at Wuhan, PRC in
October, 1986 have been publish-
ed in the Occasional Papers of the
IUCN Species Survival Commis-
sion (No. 3, 173p). The volume
contains the report of the
workshop and 24 technical con-
tributed papers on I nia geoffrensis,
Platanista gangetica, P. minor, Pon-
toporia blainvillei and Lipotes vexil-
lifer. Topics include population
status, distribution, conservation,
management, captive husbandry,
acoustics, behavior, anatomy,
ecology, and physiology. The

 

book can be ordered from the
IUCN Publications Services Unit,
219C Huntingdon Rd, Cambridge
CB3 ODL, U.K. for US. $25.00 plus
$4.38 for postage ($8.86 for air-
mail).

UPDATES

Peravian dolphin fishery may

beﬂgrow'ing

In the past, the directed take in
the Peruvian dolphin ﬁshery has
been mainly of dusky dolphins,
Iagenorhynchus obliquidens, taken
in drift gillnets, but other species
are apparently becoming increas—
ingly important. In addition, the
total landings may be increasing.
The catch in 1985 was ap-
proximately 10,000 dolphins and
porpoises (Read et al., 1988).
Detailed catch statistics by species
are available for Pucusana, one of
the important dolphin-fishing
ports. In a paper in press and a
recent draft report, Koen van
Waerebeek and Julio Reyes list es-
timates of yearly landings there.
(see table 1.)

The sharp increases in catches
of dusky dolphins and
Burmeister’s porpoises are alarm-
ing. On one day alone, 106 dusky
dolphins and 3 porpoises were
landed. Government catch statis-
tics for 1987 (reported by weight)
do not indicate an increase in
overall landings for Peru, but
rather a 38% decrease. Either
Pucusana is highly anomalous, or
the official statistics are not ac-
curate. It is not clear what, if any-
thing, is being done officially to
assess the impacts of the catches
on the populations. A workshop
scheduled for last November in
Lima to bring together scientists
and administrators interested in
the fishery did not take place.

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

Table 1. L.o.= dusky dolphin; P.s.= Burmeister’s porpoise (Phoooena spinipin-
nis), D.d.= common dolphin (Delphinus delphis), T.t.= bottlenose dolphin (Tur-
siops truncatus). * = included in Other.

 

Year L.o. P.s. D.d. T.t. Other Total
1 985 95 47 * * 14 1 75
1986 691 24 * * 1 1 760
1987 711 83 264 30 12 1101
1 988 1 725 384 155 18 8 2290

 

Inquiries can be directed to
Koen van Waerebeek, Lab-
oratorium voor Morfologie en
Systematiek der Dieren, Rijks-
universiteit Gent, Ledeganck-
straat 35, 9000 Gent, Belgium, or
Julio C. Reyes, Centro Peruano de
Estudios Cetolégicos (CEPEC),
c/o Asociacién de Ecologia
Conservacién (ECCO), Vander-
ghen 560, 2A, Lima-27, Peru.
—

 

Cetaceans receive increased
protection in India

CSG member R. S. La] Mohan
reports that his efforts to obtain
greater protection for dolphins
and whales in Indian waters have
succeeded. All species of
cetaceans are now included in
Schedule I of the Indian Wildlife
Protection Act of 1972. They were
formerly in Schedule II, Part 1.
With the new status, sale of

 

cetacean products is prohibited
(under penalty of up to two years
in prison and fine of up to Rs.
2000), and it has been possible to
stop the sale of dolphin meat in the
markets of Calicut.

Dolphin kills in the tuna
fishery

Efforts to improve rescue per-
formance by the international ﬂeet
of tuna seiners are paying off in
lower kill rates, but increased fish-
ing on dolphins in 1989 may result
in higher kills for the year. Martin
Hall of the Inter-American Tuna
Commission provided informa-
tion on technological extension
work with the ﬂeet.

1. A waterjet—propelled boat is
being tested on some US. and non-
U.S. boats to aid in herding dol-
phins to the backdown channel
and in hand rescue; it can cross the
corkline and is much better for
these purposes than the inﬂated
raft that has been used.

2. "Water hauls" to test the place-
ment and alignment of small-mesh
rescue panels in the net have been
made for 30 boats so far this year.
Some governments are requiring
that prior to fishing under their
ﬂags, vessel captains attend a semi-
nar on how to reduce dolphin mor-
tality. These seminars are now
frequently being attended by ves-
sel navigators, deck bosses and
ﬂeet managers as well as captains.
Nine seminars, in nearly all the

10

 

countries involved in the fishery,
have been held so far; 137 ﬂeet per-
sonnel have attended, including 61

captains.

3. Many fishing companies are
now routinely reviewing the dol-
phin-rescue performance of their
captains after each trip. They are
also collecting and collating perfor-
mance data for release to interested
parties.

4. The Mexican tuna industry has
opened a tuna-dolphin office in
San Diego, California. Carlos R. de
Alba Pérez, formerly of the Univer-
sidad Autonoma de Baja California
in La Paz, has been retained to head
the ofﬁce. Services to the Mexican
ﬂeet will include organizing train-
ing seminars, assisting boats in ar-
ranging net-alignment trials,
maintaining monitoring inven-
tories of dolphin-rescue equip-
ment, and following captain
performance in rescuing dolphins.

Based on preliminary and in-
complete data for 1989, these and
other efforts have resulted in
drops in kill rates for the interna—
tional ﬂeet: a decline in kill per set
of about 10% and in kill per ton of
tuna of about 20%. These gains
may not result in lower overall
mortality, however, because fish-
ing effort on dolphins is up steep-
ly, about 38% in sets and 55% in
tons. Unless the pattern of fishing
changes drastically in the last two
months of the year, the total kill in
1989 will be greater than in 1988.
Questions can be directed to Mar-
tin Hall, IA’ITC, PO. Box 271, La
Jolla, California 92038, U.S.A.
—

 

 

 




 

 

 

CSG TAKES NEW
STEPS TO
IMPLEMENT ACTION
PLAN

Two ideas emerged in recent
consultations with IUCN
Secretariat staff on how to speed
up progress in implementing the
action plan: to make each project
the responsibility of an individual
CSG member, and to set up an
office for the CSG.

Assignment of projects to
members--The member will be
charged with the responsibility of
preparing, or soliciting the
preparation of, formal proposals
to agreed potential donors. There
will be agreed deadlines for
preparation of the proposals.
They will be subject to peer review
by other, appropriate members of
the CSG and will be forwarded by
the Chairman to the potential
donor, with a copy of the action
plan and with a cover letter ex-
plaining that the proposal addres—
ses a high priority for cetacean
conservation as identified by
IUCN. Not more than one
proposal will be submitted the
CSG to the same donor at the same
time (unless more than one
proposal has been specifically re-
quested by the donor).

Office for the CSG-The ex-
panded role proposed for the CSG
will be much more active and in-
volve a great deal of time and
work. The time and resources that
any one person can devote to the
CSG are limited. The IUCN staff
recommended strongly that core
support be set up for the Group,
most importantly to coordinate
the preparation, review and sub-
mission of proposals, but also to
carry out other functions, such as
preparation and mailout of
newsletters. They estimate that

 

about $30,000 would be required
annually for this; it would be
mainly to hire some young
cetologist with knowledge of the
fund-raising world. The CMC is
prepared to help with develop-
ment of a proposal and with rais-
ing the funds for the core support.

New members of the CSG-—
Eight new members have been
added to the Group during the
year to augment expertise and
relevant experience needed for
preparation of proposals and for
response to requests for advice by
the IUCN Secretariat:

1. Fernando Rosas, Departamento
de Biologia de Mamiferos
Aquaticos, Instituto Nacional de
Pesquisas da Amazonia (INPA),
Manaus, Amazonas, Brazil.

2. Ricardo Praderi, Sociedad
Uruguaya Cetologica, Conchillas,
Colonia, Uruguay.

3. George C. T. Chen, Graduate
School of Fisheies, National
Taiwan College of Marine Science
and Technology, Keelung, Taiwan.

4. Jorge Oporto, Centro de
Investigacién y Manejo de
Mamiferos Marinos (CIMMA),
Universidad Austral de Chile, Val-
divia.

5. Julio Reyes, Grupo Cetaceos,
Asociacion de Ecologia y
Conservacion (ECCO), Lima, Peru.

6. John E. Heyning, Los Angeles
County Museum of Natural His-

tory.

7. Idelisa Bonnelly de Calventi,
Centro de Investigaciones de
Biologia Marina, Universidad
Auténoma de Santo Domingo,
Dominican Republic.

8. Aldemaro Romero, BIOMA
(Fundacién Venezolana para la
Conservacion de la Diversidad
Biolégica, Caracas.

11

 

New edition of the Action
Plan—The Action Plan has been a
best-seller; the printing of 1000
copies is nearly exhausted. An
updated version will be published
late this year or early next year.
One project, a workshop to assess
small cetaceans exploited by
Japan, will be added; the appen-
dices will be corrected and aug-
mented; and a progress report will
be included.

 

CMS TO FOCUS ON
SMALL CETACEANS

The Convention on the Conser-
vatio‘rimofwMi-gratorywSpecres“of
Wild Animals (CMS), cominonly
called the Bonn Convention, aims
to conserve migratory species by
fully protecting endangered
species and facilitating concerted
action by Range States for
migratory species which would
benefit from international agree-
ment. This necessarily involves
more than one State, since a
"migratory species", as defined in
the Convention, is one "a sig-
nificant proportion of whose
members cyclically and predict-
ably cross one or more national
jurisdictional boundaries". The
Convention came into force 1
November 1983 and currently has
twentbmgllwgémuies: Benin,
Cameroon, Chile, Denmark,
Egypt, Finland, Federal Republic
of Germany, Ghana, Hungary,
India, Ireland, Israel, Italy,
Luxembourg, Mali, Netherlands,

 

 

 

 




 

Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Pakistan,
Portugal, Senegal, Somalia, Spain,
Sweden, Tunisia, United King-
dom, and the European Economic
Community.

To encourage and oblige States
to protect migratory species, the
Convention takes two ap-
proaches, each reflected in a
separate Appendix. (If the cir-
cumstances so warrant, a species
may be listed in both Appen-
dices). Appendix I lists species
which are deemed "endangered",
that is, which according to "reli-
able evidence, including the best
scientific evidence available is in
danger of extinction throughout
all or a significant portion of its
range" (in the context, equivalent
to the IUCN category "en-
dangered"). The Convention
obliges Parties which are Range
States of Appendix I species to
prohibit their taking (hunting,
capturing, etc) with few excep-
tions, to endeavor to conserve and
restore their habitats, and to min-
imize activities and obstacles im-
peding migration and other
factors endangering the species
such as habitat loss and exotic
species. Appendix I includes
Balaenoptera musculus, Megaptem
novaeangliae, Balaena mysticetus,
and Eubalaena glacialis.

Appendix 11 lists species which
would benefit from international
co-operation, whether or not the
species is endangered. Parties
which are Range States of Appen-
dix 11 species are required to
endeavor to conclude AGREE-
MENTS, which must be open to
accession by Range States which
not Parties. Such AGREEMENTS
can stipulate more precise and
perhaps more onerous obligations
than the global Convention, be-
cause they respond to a specific
problem under definable cir-
cumstances. Appendix II at this
point includes Delphinapterus

 

leucas and North and Baltic Sea
populations of Delphinus delphis,
Globicephala melas, Grampus
griseus, lagenorhynchus acutus, L.
albirostn's, Tursiops truncatus and
Phocoena phocoena.

The latter seven species were
added to the Appendix at the Oc-
tober 1988 Conference of the Par-
ties in Geneva, on the advice of the
Scientific Council. The Con-
ference also decided that the
working group on small cetaceans
established by the first Conference
should be replaced by a working
group of the Scientific Council.
This working group is currently
being established, and interested
members of the Cetacean
Specialist Group should contact
the Convention Secretariat. CSG
Chairman Bill Perrin was ap-
pointed to the Scientific Council
by the Conference. The Scientific
Council was directed to give
priority over the next three years
to a global review of the conserva-
tion status of small cetaceans, in-
cluding freshwater species, to
establish the case for Parties to
prepare proposals for further ad-
ditions of small cetacean species to
Appendix II at the next Con-
ference.

The Parties also stressed the
need to complete work arising
from their first Conference, in-
cluding the development of the
AGREEMENT for North and Bal-
tic Sea populations of Phocoena
phocoena and Tursiops truncatus.
(It is possible that the AGREE-
MENT will be extended to include
some other small-cetacean
populations occurring in that
area, following the amendment of
Appendix II, as mentioned
above).

Further information can be ob-
tained from the Coordinator of the
UNEP /CMS Secretariat (Judy
Johnson), Postfach 201448, D—5300

12

 

Bonn, Federal Republic of Ger-
many.

Submitted by UN E P/CMS Secretariat

 

HOW MANY BLUE
WHALES ARE LEFT
IN THE ANTARCTIC?

There may not be as many blue
whales remaining in the Antarctic
as have been previously es-
timated. Certain other of the great
whales may also be more depleted
there than has been thought. The
conclusions of a working paper
submitted to the Scientific Com-
mittee of the International Whal-
ing Commission in San Diego
(Butterworth and Decker, 1989)
this year have attracted a lot of
attention and caused concern in
the environmental community
(e.g., see Anon, 1989a and b).
However, the paper is prelimi-
nary; the authors emphasize that
their conclusions are tentative and
give several reasons why the es-
timates may be biased downward.

The estimates were developed
from sightings data collected
during IWC cruises to census
minke whales in 1979-1986, using
methodology similar to that used
to generate estimates of minke
whale abundance. A series of es-
timates were made for each
species considered, using dif-
ferent data from different sighting
modes and different combina-
tions of survey years. The es-

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

timate of most concern is that of
about 500 (with a coefficient of
variation of 40%) for the blue
whale. The estimates for other
species (fin, sei, sperm,
humpback, killer and pilot
whales) are on the whole of less
concern, either because they are
not greatly lower than expected
or because a significant portion of
the range, or even most of the
range in some cases, of the stock
lies north of the area surveyed.

The Scientific Committee noted
that the small number of sightings
meant that the data could not be
stratified nor estimates calculated
by area, as has been done for
minke whales, a factor affecting
possibly both accuracy and
precision. It was further noted
that the estimates all require ad-
justment for the unsurveyed area
(the surveys covered only 64% of
the area south of latitude 60
degrees South and adjustment for
whales missed on the trackline (a
chronic problem with line-tran-
sect surveys). The Committee
concluded that although the es-
timates suffered from these
problems, they were very much
lower than the total known
catches from the stocks and con-
cluded that at least the blue and fin
whale stocks are at only a very
small fraction of their unexploited
size. Some members of the Com-
mittee expressed reservations
about this statement for fin
whales, because their range ex-
tends north of the survey area.

The most recent estimate of the
number of blue whales in the An—
tarctic based on trends in catches
was about 10,000 (including about
4,000 "exploitable" adult whales)
in 1963 (Gulland, 1981). Earlier es-
timates were 930-2790 in 1961 / 62
(IWC, 1964) and 10,600 for Areas
II-V for 1965/66 - 1970/71 (Chap-
man, 1974). The estimate of 4440
(south of 50 degrees S) in 1965 / 66-

 

1976/77 by Masaki and
Yamamura (1978) was based on
sightings from Japanese whale-
scouting vessels. An earlier es-
timate derived from the IDCR
sightings data (for the first 6 years)
was 1011 (with SE. of 412) for 75%
of the area south of 60 Degrees S
(Butterworth and Dudley, 1984).
Thus, while it is not clear with
which prior estimate(s) the most
recent estimate should be com-
pared, the new estimate is lower
than all previous estimates; there
is no evidence that the blue whale
has even begun to recover in the
Antarctic, despite 20 years of com-
plete protection.

As noted by NMFS Chief Scien-
tist Michael Tillman in a letter to
Ocean Science News, the IWC
Scientific Committee had time at
the meeting only to take a very
cursory look at the estimates.
Tillman concludes that "the utility
of these estimates is in great doubt
at this stage" and advises that
judgment be held until the Scien-
tific Committee has had time to
examine the estimates and their
derivation in detail. Caution
would seem to be in order; in some
quarters, more faith is being
placed in the estimates than the
authors themselves are willing to
place in them. In any case, the
estimates are not encouraging,
and the topic most certainly will
come up again at the IWC meet-
ings in the Netherlands next year.

The authors’ address is Depart-
ment of Applied Mathematics,
University of Cape Town, Ron-
debosch 7700, South Africa.

 

13

 

JAPAN PORPOISE
CATCHES NOT
SUSTAINABLE

Japanese catches of Dall’s por-
poisé”'tripled from 1987 to 1988,
pOSSibly as a result of reduction in
whale catches. The following is
from the report of the IWC Scien-
tific Committee for 1989:

"The Committee is extremely
concerned about the great in-
crease in take of Dall’s porpoise in
the Japanese hand-harpoon
fishery, from about 13,000 in 1987
to about 39,000 in 1988
(SC / 41 /ProgRep Japan). There is
evidence that the porpoise meat is
being substituted in commerce for
whale meat because of the
decrease in access to large whales.
The take is from two stocks in un-
known proportion, estimated to
contain about 105,000 porpoises in
the aggregate ..... There may be
some over-reporting involved in
the 1988 estimate, but other
catches in an international gillnet
fishery are not included. The
Committee concludes that the
present take is clearly unsus—
tainable. Depending on the stock
composition of the catch, the
situation may be even worse for
one of the stocks than immedi-
ately apparent.

"The Committee believes that it
is urgent that the catch be reduced
at least to the levels of previous
years (which themselves may
have been too high) and that as-
sessments of status of the stocks be
carried out, to determine safe
levels of catch for the two stocks
independently. It recommends
that catch statistics be collected
and reported on a stock-by-stock
basis, and that the Republic of
Korea be requested to report by-
catches of Dall’s porpoise (and

 

 

 




 

other cetaceans) in its squid gillnet
fishery to the IWC."

The IWC has chosen to demur
on the question of management
mandate for small cetaceans; cur-
rently it only allows its Scientific
Committee (on a low-priority
basis) to receive and review scien-
tific information and make recom-
mendations, which have no force
and are not considered gamma“?
tively in the Commission per se.
Because of this international
management vacuum and be-
cause of concern about rising
Japanese catches of Dall’s por-
poise and other small cetaceans,
the CSG is adding a project to its
Action Plan:

"39. Convene workshop to
assess small cetaceans
exploited by Japan ($16,000)

Several small cetaceans may be
seriously over-exploited in the
western Pacific. In 1988 Japan
took over 33,000 Dall’s porpoise in
harpoon fisheries. This is clearly
unsustainable if the current es-
timates of the total population of
the two or more stocks involved of
about 110,000 is correct (IWC,
1989). Concern has also been ex-
pressed about increased takes of
Baird’s beaked whales and pilot
whales. The small-cetacean meat
is being substituted for large-
whale meat in commerce as the
Japanese access to the great
whales declines. The small
cetaceans are not managed by the
IWC. Although national quotas
have been set by Japan for beaked
whales and pilot whales, these
may be too high, and the Dall’s
porpoise take has been largely un-
regulated. A workshop meeting
involving international small-
cetaceans experts and experts in
whale assessment and manage-
ment is needed, to assemble and
review the existing data, to iden-

 

tify and plan needed research to
achieve adequate assessments,
and to formulate recommenda-
tions for interim management."

RESIDENT BLUE
WHALES OFF
CENTRAL AMERICA?

Steve Reilly and Vicky Thayer
of the Southwest Fisheries Center
in La Jolla, California recently
completed a study of blue whale
sightings extracted from two
decades of cetacean sightings by
observers in the eastern Pacific
and have concluded in a paper to
be presented at the marine mam-
mal conference in Monterey in
December that a resident popula-
tion of blue whales may inhabit
waters off Central America. All
211 sightings of blue whales ex-
amined occurred in "relatively
cool, productive upwelling-
modified waters, along Baja
California, the equator near the
Galapagos Is., the coasts of
Ecuador and northern Peru, and
around the Costa Rica Dome (a
large, stationary eddy centered
near 9 degrees N, 89 degrees W).
Occupation of the most produc-
tive parts of the ETP, all with rela-
tively large standing stocks of
euphausiids, indicates that blue
whales may select low latitude

14

 

 

habitats which also permit forag-
ing. The waters off western Baja
California were occupied
seasonally, with a sightings peak
coinciding with the spring peak in
upwelling and biological produc-
tion. The Costa Rica Dome area
was occupied year round, sug-
gesting either a resident popula-
tion, or that both northern and
southern hemisphere whales visit,
with temporal overlap and poten-
tial for interbreeding." They
pr0pose that the identity of the
whales in the Costa Rica Dome be
determined by following the
movements of individual whales,
by photo-identification or satel-
lite-based tracking. Further infor-
mation can be had from the
authors at PO. Box 271, La Jolla,
California 92038, USA.

 

SOURCES

Barlow, J. 1986. Factors affecting the
recovery of Phocoena sinus, the va-
quita or Gulf of California harbor
porpoise. Southwest Fisheries
Center Administrative Report L]-
86-37, 19p.

Anon. 1989a. BioBriefs. BioScience
39:662.

Anon. 1989b. Question of southern
hemisphere whale stocks raised
this year at IWC.... Ocean Science
News 31, 25, September 10:14.
(The same information appeared in
Marine Mammal News for Sep-
tember).

Anon. 1989c. Fate of the vaquita.
Noticias del CEDO 2(2).

Brownell, R. L., Jr., L. T. Findley, O.
Vidal, A. Robles and S. Manzanilla
N. 1987. External morphology
and pigmentation of the vaquita,
Phocoena sinus (Cetacea, Mam—
malia). Marine Mammal Science
3:22-30.

Butterworth, D. S. and J. B. De Decker.
1989. Estimates of abundance for

 

 

 




 

 

 

antarctic blue, fin, sei, sperm,
humpback, filler and pilot whales
from the 1978/79 to 1985/86
IWC/IDCR sighting survey
cruises. IWC meeting document
SC/ 41 / O 20, 73p.

Butterworth, D. S. and S. F. J. Dudley.
1984. An estimate of the antarctic
blue whale population from sight-
ing data from the IWC/IDCR
cruises. IWC meeting document
SC/36/PS 11, 10p.

Chapman, D. E. 1974. Status of an-
tarctic rorqual stocks. Pp. 218-238
in W. E. Schevill (ed.), The whale
problem - a status report. Harvard
Univ. Press, Cambridge, Mass.,
419p.

Chen Peixun and Hua Yuanyu. 1989.
Projected impacts of the Three Gor-
ges Dam on the baiji, Lipotes vexil-
lifer, and the needs for conservation
of the species. Translated by C. H.
Perrin, edited by W. F. Perrin.
Southwest Fisheries Center Ad-
ministrative Report LJ-89-23, 15p.
[Available from Editor]

Dawson, S. M. MS. Incidental catch
of Hector’s dolphins in inshore
gillnets. [Available from author]

Dawson, S. M. MS. Modifying
gillnets to reduce entanglement of
cetaceans. [Available from author]

Fearnside, P. M. 1988. China’s Three
Gorges Dam: "fatal" project or
step toward modernization?
World Development 16:615-630.

Goldblatt, R. 1989. Report of an ob-
server on board the Japanese
ﬁshing boat Monju Maru during its
trip in Yap waters from
February 3 to March 3, 1989.
Marine Resources Management
Division, Colonia, Yap, Federated
States of Micronesia, 9p.

Gulland, J. 1981. A note on the abun-
dance of antarctic blue whales. Pp.
219-228 in FAQ, Mammals in the
Seas, Vol. 3.

IWC. 1964. Reports of the Committee
of three scientist on the special
scientific investigation of the an-

 

tarctic whale stocks. Appendix 4,
Rep. int. Whal. Commn 14232-106.

IWC. 1989. Chairman’s report of the
4lst Meeting. (Preprint; in press,
Rep. int. Whal. Commn 40), 54p.

IWC. 1989. Report of the Scientiﬁc
Committee. (Preprint; in press,
Rep. int. Whal. Commn 40), 84p.,
Annexes A-U.

Masaki, Y. and K. Yamamura. 1978.
Japanes pelagic whaling and
whale sighting in the 1976/77 an-
tarctic season. Rep. int. Whal.
Commn 28:251-262.

Peddemors, V. M., V. G. Cockroft and
R. B. Wilson. In press. Incidental
dolphin mortality in the Natal
shark nets: a preliminary report on
prevention measures. Report of
the International Whaling Com-
mission (Special Issue 12).

Perrin, W. F. (compiler). 1988. D01-
phins, Porpoises, and Whales. An
action plan for the conservation of
biological diversity: 1988-1992.
IUCN, 30p. [Available from IUCN
Publications Services, 219C Hun-
tingdon Rd, Cambridge CB3
ODL, UK. for US. $10.00 plus
$1.50 for postage]

Perrin, W. F., R. L. Brownell, Jr., Zhou
Kaiya and Liu Jiankang
(editors). 1989. Biology and Con-
servation of the River Dolphins.
Occasional Papers of the IUCN
Species Survival Commission
(SSC) 3, 173p. [Available from
IUCN Publications Services (ad-
dress above) for US. $25.00 plus
$4.38 for postage ($8.76 for air-
mail)]

Polacheck, T. 1989. Harbor porpoises
and the gillnet ﬁshery. Oceanus
32:63-70. [This issue of Oceanus
contains 18 papers on cetaceans]

Rao, R. J., S. A. Hussain and R. K.
Sharma. 1988. The status and con-
servation of Gangetic dolphin
Platanista gangetica in the National
Chambal Sanctuary. Tigerpaper,
June 1988.

15

 

Read, A. J. and D. E. Gaskin. 1988.
Incidental catch of harbor por-
poises by gill nets. Journal of
Wildlife Management 52:517-523.

Read, A. J., K. van Waerebeek, J. C.
Reyes, J. S. McKinnon and L. C.
Lehman. 1988. The exploitation of
small cetaceans in coastal Peru.
Biological Conservation 46:53-70.

Silber, G. K. 1987a. Observations on
the occurrence and behavior of the
Gulf of California harbor porpoise,
Phocoena sinus. Abstracts of
Seventh Biennial Conference on
the Biology of Marine Mammals,
Miami, Florida, December 5-9,
1987:65.

1987b. Can the vaquita be
saved? Defenders, May/ June
1987:14-15.

. 1988a. Report from
the field: Gulf of California,
Mexico. CEE Report 13:13-15.

. 1988b. Recent sight-
ings of the Gulf of California
harbor porpoise, Phocoena sinus.
Journal of Mammalogy 69:430-
433.

van Waerebeek, K. and J. C. Reyes. In
press. Catch of small cetaceans at
Pucusana port, central Peru,
during 1987. Biological Conserva-
tion. [Available from authors]

. MS.
Small cetacean ﬁshery at Pucusana,
Peru: 1988 statistics. 5p. [Available
from authors]

 

—
Graphics credits: p.1, Soc. for Mar.
Mammalogy; p.2, A.A. Mignucci
Giannoni; p.3, R. Ellis; p.5, N. Atl. Mar.
Mamm. Assoc.; p. 7, K. Raymond; p.8,
Tongling Brewery (Baiji Beer); p.10,
R.N.P. Goodall; p.14, Cetacean Res.
Inst, Tokyo.

 

 

 




 

 




 

BIOLOGY AND
CONSERVATION OF THE
RIVER DOLPHINS

Edited by W. F. Pem’n, R. L. Browne/I, Jr., Zhou Kaiya

 

Table of Contents

and Uu Jiankang
Page
INTRODUCTION .................................. iv
REPORT OF THE WORKSHOP
edited by William F. Perrin and Robert L. Brownell,
Jr. ............................................
Review of the species
Inia geoﬂrensis .................................... 1
Pontoporia blainvillei .............................. 2
Platanista gangetica ............................... 3
Platanista minor .................................. 4
Lipotes vexillifer ................................... 5
Recommendations ................................... 7
Acknowledgements .................................. 10
Literature cited ...................................... 11
Appendices
1. Participants .................................... 11
2. Welcoming remarks by Liu Jiankang, Director, Insti-
tute of Hydrobiology, Academia Sinica ............ 13
3. Opening address by Li Rongao, National Environ-
mental Protection Agency of China ............... 14
4. Agenda ........................................ l4
5. List of working papers ........................... 15
6. Report of the subgroup on dams and dolphins ..... 16
7. Report of the subgroup on sighting methods ....... l7
8. Progress report on the semi-natural reserve at
Tongling ....................................... 19
9. A proposal for establishment of a semi-natural reserve
at Shishou for conservation and management of the
baiji (Lipotes vexillifer) .......................... 21

CONTRIBUTED PAPERS

I nia geoﬂrensis:
Biology, status and conservation of Inia geoﬂrensis in

the Amazon and Orinoco River basins

by Robin C. Best and Vera M. F. da Silva ........ 23
Inia geoﬂrensis in captivity in the United States

by Melba C. Caldwell, David K. Caldwell and

Randall L. Brill ........................... 35

Observations on I nia geoﬂrensis and Platanista

gangetica in captivity at Kamogawa Sea World,

Japan

by Teruo Tobayama and Toshiro Kamiya ........ 42

Pontoporia blainvillei:
Review of the biology and status of the franciscana,
Pontoporia blainvillei
by Maria Cristina Pinedo, Ricardo Praderi and
Robert L. Brownell, Jr. ..................... 46
Conservation and management of Pontoporia
blainvillei in Uruguay, Brazil and Argentina
by Ricardo Praderi, Maria Cristina Pinedo and
Enrique A. Crespo ......................... 52
Survey of the franciscana, Pontoporia blainvillei, along
the Argentine coast, with a preliminary evaluation
of mortality in coastal ﬁsheries
by Graciela Pérez Macri and Enrique A. Crespo . . . 57

Platanista gangetica:
Conservation and management of the Ganges river
dolphin, Platanista gangetica, in India
by R. S. Lal Mohan ............................ 64

Biology, status and conservation of the Ganges river
dolphin, Platanista gangetica, in Nepal
by Tej Kumar Shrestha .........................

Platanista minor:

Distribution and population status of the Indus
dolphin, Platanista minor
by Khan Muhammad Khan and Mohammad
Sadiq Niazi ...............................

Lipotes vexillifer:

Distribution, population size and protection of Lipotes
vexillifer
by Chen Peixun and Hua Yuanyu ...............

Status and aspects of the ecology and behavior of the
baiji, Lipotes vexillifer, in the lower Yangtze River
by Zhou Kaiya and Li Yuemin ..................

The Habitat and Behavior of Lipotes vexillifer
by Hua Yuanyu, Zhao Qingzhong and Zhang
Guocheng .................................

Review of studies of structure and function of the baiji,
Lipotes vexillifer
by Zhou Kaiya ................................
Hematology of the baiji, Lipotes vexillifer
by Guan Zhimei and Chen Daoquan .............

Morphometric and stereoscopic studies of the spiral
and vestibular ganglia of the baiji, Lipotes
vexillifer
by Feng Wenhui, Liang Changlin, Wang Jingzhu.
Wang X iuchun and Chen Peixun ............
Ultrasonic attenuation and sound velocity in the melon
of the baiji, Lipotes vexillifer
by H ua Minglong, Zhou Kaiya, Qian Zhena'e.
Wang Yuchu and Tang Tianxue ............
Underwater acoustic signals of the baiji, Lipotes
vexillzfer
by Xiao Youfu and Jing Rongcai ................
A preliminary study of the acoustic behavior of the
baiji, Lipotes vexillifer
by Wang Ding, Lu Wenxiang and Wang Zhifan . .
The behavior of the baiji, Lipotes vexillifer, in captivity
by Liu Renjun and Wang Ding ..................

Captive husbandry of the baiji, Lipotes vexillifer
by Chen Peixun and Liu Renjun ................

A semi-captive breeding program for the baiji, Lipotes
vexillifer: genetic and demographic considerations
by Katherine Ralls .............................

Conservation and management of Lipotes vexillifer in
China: Experiences, lessons and tentative plans for
the future
by Wang X iaoyan .............................

General:

Some considerations for those wishing to propagate
platanistoid dolphins
by Sam H. Ridgway, Kenneth S. Norris and Lanny
H. Cornell ................................
Summary of national laws and international
agreements affecting river dolphins
by Natasha Atkins .............................

 

7O

77

81

86

92

99

114

119

124

129

137

141

146

150

157

159

168

see SOURCES (p. 15) for ordering information

 




 




THE TRADE IN
LIVE WILDLIFE

MORTALITY AND TRANSPORT CONDITIONS

A second report by the
Environmental Investigation Agency

 




 

This report was written by

Nick Carter and Dave Currey

and edited by

Allan Thornton

Additional research on psittacosis by

Dr Rosalind Reeve

The report was researched by the authors,

John Brookland and Katia Kanas
on behalf of the

Environmental Investigation
Agency

Unit 32, Finsbury Business Centre, 40 Bowling Green Lane,
London EC1R ONE Tel: 01-833 1493

EIA would like to thank the Animal Welfare Institute, the International
Fund for Animal Welfare, and the Wouk Foundation for their valuable
support. It is also grateful to the many ofﬁcials, medical doctors,
veterinarians, lawyers, aviculturalists, WTMU/IUCN, and all who have
made possible the research and writing of this report.

This report is respectfully dedicated to all law enforcement ofﬁcers of
wildlife agencies, veterinary departments and customs authorities in all
countries working to protect the earth’s irreplaceable wild fauna and
ﬂora from commercial poachers, smugglers, dealers, traders and airlines
proﬁting from violations of the spirit and principles of CITES. To them
CITES is no paper reality.

The cover shows Senegal parrots crammed into an air transport case at Dakar
airport for export to West Germany, December 1986. Dave Currey/E/A

Front cover design by Gary Hodges.
Text page design by Calvert’s Press.
Report typeset and printed by Calvert’s Press (TU), Workers’ Co-operative,
01-739 1474

© The Environmental Investigation Agency, 1987.

All rights reserved. No part of this booklet may be reproduced by any means

whatsoever without the written permission of EIA.

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

Contents

Legal Opinion on the Responsibilities of the Parties to CITES for Animal Welfare

Introduction

TABLE 1: Overall Mortality Rates in Wild Caught Birds for the Pet Trade from a Major Exporting State
and Four Importing Countries

Update 1987

Preparation and Shipment Controlled by Commercial Traders and Airlines

TABLE 2: US Fish and Wildlife Service Law Cases Against Importers Violating National Legislation
Enforcing CITES (1983—1985)

How EIA has Tried to Improve Conditions of Transport for Live Fauna

Research into the Conditions of Capture, Transportation and Export of
Wild Caught Birds from Senegal

TABLE 3: Analysis of a Typical Delivery Note
Illegal Trade in Wild Baboons from the Gambia

The Pet Trade’s Massive Wastage of Parrots

TABLE 4: Mortality Rates in Air Transport and Quarantine Only Among Wild Caught Psittacines to Four Importing Countries
TABLE 5: Mortality Rates in Air Transport and Quarantine Among All Wild Caught Species, Including Psittacines,

to Four Importing Countries

TABLE 6: UK Quarantine Mortalities Showing Weekly Death Rates

PeOpIe, Zoonoses and the Pet Trade

TABLE 7: Wild Birds Imported to the USA in Relation to Reported Human Psittacosis Cases 1976—1984
TABLE 8: Zoonosis Acquired from Pets — England and Wales, 1975—1984
TABLE 9: Human Psittacosis Cases: Sweden, 1971—1984

Conclusion

Correlation of Human Psittacosis with Wild Bird Imports
TABLE 10: Showing Correlation Coefficients of Wild Bird Imports

GRAPH A: Comparison of Wild Bird Imports with Human Psittacosis Cases in England and Wales (1975—1984)
GRAPH B: Comparison of Wild Bird Imports with Human Psittacosis Cases in Sweden (1971-1985)
GRAPH C: Comparison of Wild Bird Imports with Reported Human Psittacosis Cases in the USA (1976—1984)

C’U’lwwN

UN

10
12

19

22
23

23
26

28

3O
31
33

33

34
34

35
36
36

 




 

 

2

Legal Opinion on the Responsibilities of the Parties to CITES for Animal
Welfare

M.J. Bowman, LL.B., University of Nottingham Treaty Centre.

The object and purpose of the 1973 Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild
Fauna and Flora is revealed, as well as in the very title to the Convention, by the preamble — namely ‘the protection
of certain species of wild fauna and flora against overexploitation through international trade’. To that end the
substantive articles seek to regulate trading activities, as defined, in respect of species included in Appendices l—lll
of the Convention.

In addition to that basic purpose, however, certain related ancillary purposes are discernible from the
substantive provisions. For example, Art 3(2)(c) provides that a living specimen of an Appendix I species may not be
exported unless the relevant authority is satisfied that it will ‘be so prepared and shipped as to minimize the risk of
injury, damage to health or cruel treatment’. A similar condition applies in the case of re-export of such a specimen,
as well as in the case of export, re-export or introduction from the sea of a living specimen of an Appendix II species,
and export of such a specimen of an Appendix III species. Since this condition is in each situation additional to the
requirement that the trading activity in question must at some stage have been certified as not detrimental to the
survival of the species concerned, it is clear that the objective of humane treatment is to be pursued as a distinct
matter from the objective of conservation, though the two are not necessarily unrelated. Furthermore, in the case of
import or introduction from the sea of a living specimen of an Appendix I species, the relevant authority must be
satisfied that the proposed recipient ‘is suitably equipped to house and care for it’. Animal welfare provisions appear
also in Arts 7 and 8.

It is therefore beyond dispute that the Convention provides for the welfare of living specimens
in international trade, to the extent indicated above.

The language of the articles which contain the above-mentioned animal welfare provisions is clearly
mandatory in character — Arts 3—5 all state that all trade in specimens of the species in question ‘shall be’ in
accordance with the provisions of those articles. Permits ‘shall only be’ granted when the appropriate conditions have
been met. Further, under Art 2 ‘The parties shall not allowtrade in specimens of species included in Appendices I, II
and III except in accordance with the provisions of the present Convention’ and under Art 8 they ‘sha/l take
appropriate measures to enforce the provisions’ of the Convention and ‘to prohibit trade in specimens in violation

ereo ’. '

It is therefore equally clear that the Parties accept responsibilities of a legally binding character
for the welfare of the specimens mentioned.

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

Introduction

This is the second report of the Environmental Investigation Agency (EIA) on the conditions of transport
and mortality resulting from the trade in live wild animals.

Our ﬁrst report, published in May 1985, focussed attention on the horriﬁc conditions of
transport occurring in the live fauna trade, and was called, “Injury, Damage to Health and Cruel
Treatment”, after the clauses of the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species (CITES)
which specify that:

“Management Authorities of the Parties (to CITES) shall be satisﬁed that any living
specimen will be so prepared and shipped as to minimise the risk of injury, damage to health or cruel
treatment.”

The ﬁrst EIA report resulted in the setting up of a CITES working group to study the transport
conditions of live fauna.

In the past two years, EIA has made every effort to work with this group, which has co—operated
with the Live Animals Board (LAB) of the International Air Transport Association (IATA) to reform IATA’s
Live Animals Regulations. Although EIA’s research and recommendations was the focal "point of
discussions by these groups, EIA was ultimately excluded. As a result, new amendments to IATA’s Live
Animals Regulations are inadequate and do little to improve the conditions of transport for live fauna.

Both the CITES Working Group and the IATA LAB needed to review recent data on mortality
of live fauna during air transport. The pet trade claimed the appalling data presented in EIA’s 1985 report
was out of date, and that both the pet trade and the airlines had cleaned up their act.

To investigate this, EIA undertook major new research efforts to acquire additional data and
documentation on the mortality of wild caught animals during transport and quarantine. The UK
Government, in particular, was completely uncooperative in providing detailed information on mortality
of imported live fauna specimens despite repeated requests from British conservationists, and despite the
fact that the UK supported the setting up of the Working Group at the 1985 CITES meeting. Fortunately,
other countries such as Sweden, Denmark and the USA willingly provided such data.

EIA sent a research team to Senegal, the world’s largest exporter of live caught birds where some
20 million birds, including CITES listed species, are caught each year. Half of these die before they are
exported. EIA documented mortality at each stage of capture and transport and has added this to the new
data on mortality during air transport and post import quarantine.

TABLE 1:
Overall Mortality Rates in Wild Caught Birds for the Pet Trade from a Major Exporting State
and Four Importing Countries

 

 

Period Countries Mortality
1986 Senegal (from capture to export) 50%
1982—86 Denmark1 (DOA 86 in Quarantine)

1980—86 Sweden (DOA SC in Quarantine) Average 20. 65%
1980—85 UK (DOA 8c in Quarantine)

1980—84 USA (DOA 8C in Quarantine)

 

1 parrot species only.
NOTE: EIA enquiries indicate that in the UK up to 90% mortality occurs among wild-caught parrot species within

a year; for small birds the ﬁgure is even higher.

EIA has also investigated the incidence of zoonoses — diseases transmitted from animals to
humans. One of the most common and dangerous of these is psittacosis — a disease activated among wild
caught birds as a result of the numerous prolonged stresses of capture, bulk transport and shipment to
foreign lands and climates.

Psittacosis can and does kill people. Many others are stricken with this serious disease.
Frequently wild caught birds for sale in pet stores carry this potentially lethal infection.

Neither the pet trade, the airlines, nor many governments, such as the UK, warn the buying
public by providing information on the serious threat posed by psittacosis.

That makes the entire trade in live caught specimens of wild fauna unacceptable for two reasons;
the ﬁrst being the continued horriﬁc mortality inflicted on wild caught animals, including CITES listed
species; and second, the dangerous and often deadly diseases generated in wild psittacines as a result of the

pet trade and airline transport.

 




 

 

The Parties to CITES have a legal responsibility to implement the clauses of the Convention
which provide minimal protection for listed live caught specimens (See Page 2). The Parties to the
Convention must now take immediate action, in accordance with their 1976 resolution calling for the
cessation of trade in live specimens for the pet trade.

Any further delay will continue to jeopardise the health and welfare of thousands of people who
come into contact with diseased wild caught psittacines because of the greed of the pet traders, the
negligence of most airlines and the apathy of governments such as the UK. Delay will also ensure continued
wastage of wildlife on a massive scale.

EIA therefore supports the suspension of trade in CITES listed species of psittacines for the
pet trade and the rejection of the Live Animals Regulations of IATA for use as guidelines acceptable to
the Parties to CITES until they conform with the legal requirements of the Convention.

 

DAVE CURRE Y,
Campaign Coordinator
jane 23, I987

 

 

 

 

 

 

400 Lovebirds died during transportation to London Heathrow Airport due to overcrowding. John Brook/and

 

 




 

 

 

Update 1987

This report is the accumulation of ﬁve years study of transport conditions of wild caught fauna and
looks at the legal obligations of the Convention in terms of its declared purpose of “protection of
certain species of fauna . . . against overexploitation through international trade”, as well as its
responsibility to minimise “injury, damage to health and cruel treatment”.

 

 

CONVENTION OF INTERNATIONAL TRADE IN
ENDANGERED SPECIES OF WILD FAUNA AND FLORA

 

leURY. DAMAGE TO HEALTH
AND CRUEL TREATMENT

Pietzbtzml Li{)i\;:./II:{_):‘£¥:- i?» “if; Still’hiiﬂ‘ai LII LIV}; I~/-xt_.:;"'~;.=’t

FIRST MEETING OF THE CONFERENCE
OF THE PARTIES

Berne (Switzerland), 2 to 6 November 1976

 

GENERAL PRINCIPLE RELATING TO THE PET TRADE

Recognizing firstly that many species of animals which are
popular in the pet trade are becoming rare or even endangered
due both to overexploitation and diminishing habitats and
second/ythat mortality in the trade and captivity is high, this
Conference urges that contracting countries endeavour to
restrict gradually the collection of wild animals forthe pettrade
and to encourage the breeding of animals for this purpose with A WW m.»

the objective of eventually limiting the keeping of pets to those Elm/immnemal invesugazior; Agency
species which can be bred in captivity. ' '

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ElA’s 1985 summary of a 490 page study entitled “The

Preparation and Shipment of Wild Fauna in International
Trade Carried by Air” endorsed by the CITES Secretariat.
ADOPTED IN CONF. 1.6 BY PLENARY SESSION OF

FIRST CONFERENCE OF THE PARTIES.

 

 

 

Eleven years after this 1976 CITES Resolution was agreed, there have been numerous regressive
developments which not only fail to raise the intent of the resolution, but which have actually increased the

problems the resolution intended to solve:

1. Parrot-like birds (psittacines) have suffered increased exploitation from the pet trade at the
same time as habitats diminished.

2. Mortality in the pet trade remains spectacularly high to this day.

3. The wealthy consumer countries of North America and Europe removed previous health

restrictions on psittacine imports from 1973 to 1976, thereby increasing demand from poorer
exporting states which lack the resources to control or prevent the trade.

4. From 1976, the incidence of psittacosis, a dangerous and often fatal disease that humans catch
from wild caught birds, increased proportionally to the rise in imports of parrot-like birds,
due to an unwary public being uninformed of the consequences of the pet trade.

From 1976 several million psittacines were trapped in the wild for the pet trade of rich countries.
Post capture mortality prior to export was around 50%. UK psittacine veterinary export George A. Smith
notes: “They were often ridiculously cheap because of the wickedly large quantities taken”. His comments
were similar to those of the Zoological Society of London which denounced the conditions of the pet trade

almost sixty years ago.

 




 

In 1987, 330 of the 333 psittacine species are on CITES appendices. Most are listed on Appendix II
— species in need of “strict regulation to avoid utilisation incompatible with their survival” to ensure trade
is “brought under effective control”. As in 1976, the trade is still not under effective control today.

EIA research over the past four years in exporting and importing countries shows:

1. Many species of psittacine and other birds are detrimentally affected by the pet trade.

2. Existing conditions of transport Violate the Convention’s obligation to minimise “risks of injury,
damage to health and cruel treatment” and consequently mortality in the pet trade remains high.

3. Experienced aviculturists agree that the wasteful commercial trade in wild caught psittacines and
other bird species should end, with only very small numbers permitted to be imported for captive

breeding. Some bird breeders point approvrngly to Australia’s ban on wild bird exports, which
successfully stimulated captive breeding of Australian species.

Some of 335 Amazon Parrots refused entry to the US while suffering from Newcastles Disease and re-exported to West Germany. The parrots were
shipped in extremely overcrowded, two-tiered crates without water or adequate food. John Brook/and

       

 

Preparation and Shipment Controlled by Commercial Traders and
Airlines

EIA evidence clearly establishes that because CITES Guidelines on Preparation and Shipment are ignored
and that air shipments of live specimens of wild fauna are not “so prepared and shipped as to minimise risk
of injury, damage to health or cruel treatment”, as the Convention demands, massive wasteful mortalities
of CITES listed psittacines and other species continue to occur.

These losses occur primarily because the preparation and shipment of such wild fauna is left in
the hands of traders and airline carriers whose sole motivation is commercial gain. Though law courts have
found traders and airlines guilty for violating national laws implementing the Convention these commercial
interests and not the Parties, are in effective control of the preparation and shipment of living specimens in
international trade. The following shows some numbers of importers and airlines prosecuted in the US and
UK.

Although these prosecutions are not always connected with transport conditions of live wild

caught fauna, they reflect the well known unreliability of importers and airlines to respect either CITES
and/ or national regulations.




 

 

 

TABLE 2:
US Fish and Wildlife Service Law Cases Against Importers Violating National Legislation
Enforcing CITES (1983—1985)

 

 

1983 1984 1985
Criminal cases opened 2, 619 1, 815 899
Criminal convictions 74 N/ A N/ A
Criminal cases dismissed 2 N/ A N/ A
Criminal cases total ﬁnes in US$ 43,926 N/ A 1,040
Criminal gaol sentences in total days 1, 392 N/ A 90 (suspended)
Criminal probation sentences in total days 12, 795 N/ A N/ A
Civil penalty sentences 1, 066 N/ A N/ A
Civil ﬁnes totals in US$ 30,849 126,153 5,200
Items forfeited (values in US$13) 353, 785 1,106, 855 341 , 700

 

N/A = ﬁgures not available
With thanks to US Freedom of Information Act

UK court convictions of Airlines under the Transit of Animals Order (1973) for offences causing
injury, damage to health or cruel treatment to living specimens numbered 55 up to May 1986. In addition,
numerous cautions have been issued by 1nspectors. Airlines also have been convicted numerous times for

offences under the UK Imported Birds, Poultry and Hatching Eggs Order.

One of ten Giant Squirrels imported by a UK 200 from Indonesia packed in plastic tubes and stacked in a wooden crate. John Brook/and

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

8
How EIA has Tried to Improve Conditions of Transport for Live Fauna

EIA continually attempted to co-operate through CITES with the International Air Transport Association
(IATA) Live Animals Board (LAB) to improve conditions of preparation and shipment for livmg specrmens
in international trade, now almost wholly carried by air. Some limited changes have been proposed by the
CITES Technical Committee for consideration by the 1987 Conference of the Parties, but these are, of
themselves, inadequate.

To understand why, EIA’s five years of research and efforts to improve transport conditions for
specimens of live fauna must be considered.

In 1982 the CITES Secretariat endorsed a three years’ study “The Preparation and Shipment of
Living Specimens of Wild Fauna in International Trade Carried by Air” by Brookland, Carter and Hora.

Three years later this was produced in a 480—page report. EIA subsequently published a 36—page
illustrated summary: “Injury, Damage to Health and Cruel Treatment”, which was distributed to the Fifth
Conference of the Parties in April/ May 1985.

Supported by Uruguay, The Gambia, USA and UK CITES Parties agreed to set up a Working
Group to prepare recommendations for the next CITES meeting on how to improve conditions in which
live specimens are transported.

EIA continues its research into conditions of transport, and of monitoring mortality data for
provision to the working Group. EIA was not assisted by the obstructive attitude of the UK Government.
Although the UK proposed the establishment of the Working Group, repeated requests from EIA to the

relevant UK ministries for access to mortality data were refused.

 

 

 

Hyacinth Macaws in the wild,
victims of the wildlife trade.
Pa/o Jr./NHPA

 

 

 

 

 

 




9

EIA offered to co-operate in any way with the Working Group but its involvement was ultimately
excluded, even though several pet trade representatives were invited to take part. Some of EIA’s numerous
recommendations have been adopted, but the changes, even if approved, are too inadequate of themselves
to cause any substantial change. In any event, these inadequate changes would still need to be implemented
and past experience demonstrates that this is unlikely in the day to day practices controlled by the
commercial interests of airlines and animal exporters/ importers.

The 14th edition of IATA’s Live Animals Regulations still make no mandatory provisions for
water and food for living specimens accepted for shipment despite obvious risks of delay which frequently
occur. IATA is unable to guarantee that airlines will deliver specimens on time. The incidence of
dehydration and emaciation among veterinarians’ reports on mortalities shows IATA Live Animals
Regulations fail to minimise such risks as CITES and its Guidelines on Preparation and Shipment demand.

IATA has also failed to incorporate the provision that live wild animals evidently pregnant, or
females travelling with young incapable of feeding themselves, or such young travelling alone, must not be
carried.

This recommendation, and others were approved by CITES Technical Committee in 1986.
Although 105 of the 245 amendments suggested by EIA were incorporated into the edition, numerous
essential proposals which are vital to minimise risks of injury, damage to health and cruel treatment, have
been excluded. The Parties to CITES should reject IATA’s Live Animals Regulations until IATA makes
signiﬁcant amendments.

EIA therefore seeks the suspension of trade in CITES listed species of psittacines for the pet
trade, and will continue to draw attention on a national level to trade in other live wildlife species with
a View to ending such imports.

29 Squirrel Monkeys with tails tied together shipped from Bolivia to Japan via Lima, Madrid, and London. Six of the monkeys were dead soon after
arrival lb ' Airlines n IATA member airline, was fined £400 for causing unnecessary suffering. John Brook/and

 

 

       

 

 

 

 

 

 




10

Research into the Conditions of Capture, Transportation and Export
of Wild Caught Birds from Senegal

Introduction

EIA have thoroughly investigated the international trade in wild—caught birds. This involved visiting
exporting and consumer countries in Africa and Europe, including Senegal, the world’s largest wild bird
exporting country. Data was also collected from the USA and other countries.

The annual bird catch is some 20 million birds — far more than are ofﬁcially recorded. Half of
these die before export, according to information collected by EIA.

The remaining 10 million birds, including CITES listed species, are exported from Senegal each
year. This is almost eight times the ofﬁcial ﬁgure on which management decisions are supposedly made,
including those in line with CITES recommendations. The trade interests beneﬁt enormously from
underestimating catches and exports, either from concealing levels of disease and mortality of the animals
or to hide proﬁts from tax.

Birds in holding premises are easily cross—infected with diseases which kill them after they arrive
in consumer countries. This massive wastage of native wildlife has been continually ignored, but as
Col. André Dupuy, Senegal’s Director of National Parks states, “specialists admit that for every bird sold,
ﬁve have died”.

Airlines transport the surviving birds to the consumer countries. The stress caused in air
transportation and quarantine kills at least a further 20% of the birds. Hardly any survive for more than a
year. Because of this, the demand for birds continues. The wealthy consumer countries exploit the inability
of poorer exporting nations which are unable to adequately control the traders.

“The real solution” says Col. Dupuy, “is an intense educational campaign in Europe, Japan,
and the USA, which are the big consumers, so that people themselves stop buying birds.”

 

.................

Key for map below:

roads Scale:
.—_.~#» town or Village 50 190 km.

.——-—..... border

St-Louis

 

r0

E

 

<‘x\§3§§

 

 

A F R I C A

H. Senegal
Atlantic Ocean Erizirsfz.

 

S E N E G A L

DAKAR

 

 

 

Koungheul M A L I
Koussanar
Nioro
Tambacounda
Banjul
G A M B l A
Velingara
Kolda
Kuonkani
Casamance » /
/////////////// Kedougou
G [J.I N IS A B l: S 53 A [J
//III///////I////IIIIII [GIBII/IN/g/A //

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

Masses of dead birds at an exporter’s premises in Dakar,
December 1986. EIA estimates that half of all birds caught die
before export. Dave Currey/EIA

 

Mortality

Figures for normal mortality of wild birds caught for the trade in Senegal show 50% mortality from capture
to export. Causes tend to overlap but the major categories where mortality occurs can be assessed as
follows.

Average
Mortality Range Average Mortality N 0. birds dead
/ I 00
Capture and collection 10—50%1 20% (of 100) 20
Transportation 5—30%2 25% (of 80) 20
Exporters’ premises 5-100%3 17. 5% (of 60) 10
TOTAL BIRDS DEAD/ 100 50

1 Amadou Diallo, largest bird exporter in Senegal.

2 Range from Alpha Barry (bird trapper SC collector) and Amadou Diallo’s statement on “change of food”
mortalities.

3 Owner of Viv Anim, Senegal’s second largest bird exporter.

Senegal’s largest bird exporter, Amadou Diallo, stated that the normal mortality rate due to the
shock of putting wild birds in a cage was 10—20%. This was conﬁrmed by many trappers and collectors.
Diallo stressed that this ﬁgure applies when a trapper does not overcrowd cages and does not introduce
newly captured birds to those caught the day before. If a cage is overcrowded mortality can be as high as
50%.

It is the trappers’ responsibility to ﬁrst introduce the birds to cage food (millet). However, Diallo
stated that since this kills a further 20—30% of the birds many trappers only add the millet to the food
immediately before selling the birds to the collector. Further mortality due to food change therefore occurs
after capture, collection, during transportation or even on arrival at the exporter’s premises. Trappers
always remove dead birds from the cage before selling them in case the collector suspects that the birds are
diseased.

With caging responsible for an average 20% mortality at capture and collection, EIA estimates
from statements by exporters and collectors that average mortality due to (pre-export) transportation is
25%. The factors affecting mortality at this stage are:

- Distance travelled by the birds;

- Duration of the journey/ breakdowns/ rest availability;
- Stowage of cages in or on the vehicle/ ventilation;

— Temperature;

— Number of birds in each cage;

— Availability of food and water;

- Bird species — some travel better than others;

— Disease;

- Change from wild to cage food.

EIA’s research and documentation relate to the winter months when the temperature is
considerably cooler. Mortality would be higher at other times of the year.

 




 

 

12

A Cordon-bleu drowning in a water pot in an air
transport case while still at the exporter’s premises.
Dave Currey/E/A

 

 

Among other evidence, EIA obtained delivery notes listing all species which arrive at the
exporters’ premises stating mortalities and the value of the birds. Table 3 is an analysis of a typical delivery
note issued by Viv Anim.

 

 

 

TABLE 3:
Live birds Dead birds Total birds Mortality °/o

Yellow-fronted canary (sm) 60 40 100 40.0
Lavender ﬁre ﬁnch (qv) 339 81 420 19.3
Senegal ﬁre ﬁnch (am) 238 92 330 27. 9
Cordon—bleu (cb) 898 430 1328 32.4
Black—rumped waxbill (be) 46 4 50 8.0
Cut—throat weaver (cc) 131 9 140 6. 4
Red—winged pytilia (da) 6 0 6 0
Paradise whydah (vac) 8 4 12 33. 3
TOTAL 1726 660 2386 27.7

 

NOTE: The delivery note states the numbers of birds in pairs. EIA has multiplied each number by two to State the
total number of individual birds.

After delivery, disease can greatly increase mortality. The risk is increased as newly arriving birds
are put 1n the same av1ar1es as birds already in stock. Since Diallo has up to 200,000 birds on his premises
at any one tlme, vast numbers of birds can be infected.

. 1750/ EIA estimates from exporters’ statements that average mortality in the holding premises
lS . 0.

Further mortality can occur during packing into air transport cases and delivery to the airport due
to stress or drowning in water pots. Dead birds are removed before being loaded on to the plane.

Diallo stated that a further 10—15% mortality occurred during air transportation. An employee
of another exporter explained that he packed 250 birds in an air transport case to ensure that 200 arrived at
their destination alive (20% mortality). Although this is the average rate to ALL destinations, some
countries would have higher or lower mortality with longer flights causing increased animal deaths. Diallo
has 200 birds packed into an air transport case destined for New York (direct ﬂight) but only 160 birds for
other US cities (flown indirectly via another country) to help reduce losses.

Peter Mojen, Dir €CtOF Of Senegal Operations for LUFTHANSA said that “normal bird mortality
rate (during air transportation) is considered to be up to 15—20%. LUFTHANSA, because of all the
precautions we are taking, WC have between zero and 10%, besides sometimes some bigger problems”.

Most airlines are involved in the transportation of live fauna but few show concern for the
suffering and high mortalities caused by the trade. However, SWISSAIR informed clients in Senegal that
only cases with 80 birds in them would be accepted to reduce mortality. Diallo stopped using Swissair.

 

 

 




 

   

 

 

 

13

Total Numbers of Birds Caught in Senegal

The estimate of Senegal’s total annual catch of wild birds is some 20 million with half dying before export
and the rest shipped to Europe, the USA, and Japan. These ﬁgures are supported by data collected by EIA
from all stages of the trade.

Col. André Dupuy, Senegal’s Director of National Parks stated: “I consider that the
minimum is 140 million [birds] in the last 15 years exported from Senegal to all over the world.” This
represents a “minimum” annual export of 9.33 million birds.

Dr. Abdoul Fall, chief of the division for the protection of nature at the Secretariat d’Etat aux
Eaux et Foréts (SEEF) admitted that there is no possible control over the numbers of birds caught.

EIA interviewed trappers, collectors, exporters, the Director of Senegal’s National Parks and
Dr. Fall. EIA cross referenced information obtained from ofﬁcial sources with data collected at each stage
of the trade in Senegal.

SEEF issues 2,500 catching permits each year, each permit allowing up to 10,000 birds to be
caught. This represents a total permitted catch of 25 million birds each year. In addition to this
“occasional permits” are also issued.

Trappers state that they catch at least 200 birds per week. Since there are 2,500 trappers this
represents some 26 million birds potentially caught each year.

EIA examined trappers’ permits which had been stamped by SEEF checkpoint ofﬁcials and the
numbers of birds in the trapper’s possession recorded. This only occurs when a trapper has to pass through
a checkpoint, but trappers conﬁrmed that permits were often not stamped. The permits did show that an
average of 510 birds were recorded each month for each trapper. This alone represents over 15 million birds
annually recorded as having been transported by trappers without including unrecorded birds or those
dying prior to transportation to the collector.

Exporters made it clear that the ofﬁcial Senegalese export ﬁgure of about 1.3 million birds per
year is absurdly low. The evidence suggests that some 10 million birds are exported annually.

This ﬁgure is also supported by an analysis of the income and expenses incurred of the main
dealers. EIA gathered information on salaries, numbers of employees, costs of birds, prices charged to
clients, and other data, then calculated that both Diallo and Viv Anim would be running at an enormous loss
if the ofﬁcial statistics were true. Using the same calculations based on an export ﬁgure of ten million birds
both companies’ proﬁts are consistent with their ﬁnancial commitments and investments.

Hundreds of parrots and parakeets in an exporter’s premises, December 1986. Evidence suggests that 10 million birds are exported from Senegal
every year. Dave Currey/E/A

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

14

Regulations:

There are no regulations concerning the internal transportation of. the birds in Senegal. This allows
exporters, collectors, and trappers to decide how many birds to put in each cage and the transportation
conditions. There are SEEF checkpoints on most main routes where the numbers of the birds are sometimes
recorded. However, EIA observed that there was not even a visual inspection of the birds. The number
recorded was given to the SEEF ofﬁcial by the driver.

The exporters deal with most of the paper work. “Code de la chasse et de la protection de la
faune” (Code on hunting and the protection of fauna) Article D32 requires certiﬁcates of origin of species
and hunting permits. Article D7 “Permit d’oisellerie” (Bird trader’s permit) requires that a register of birds
is kept by the catchers, collectors and traders. The annual export quotas have been set since 1982 at 1,614,000
although there are ﬁve species allowed to be caught in unlimited numbers.

“The holder of a ‘permit d’oisellerie’ is authorised to keep birds until he sells or exports them.
These birds should be maintained in good health and sanitary conditions.”

Despite these regulations there is no practical control over the capture and trading in wild birds
in Senegal. Ofﬁcial export ﬁgures show that no notice is taken of quotas since far more than the quota are
caught for some species. Col. Andre Dupuy stated that “controls are extremely difﬁcult for different
reasons.”

EIA researchers were shown ﬁve Cape Parrots (Poicep/mlus robustus) in the premises of Viv
Anim, and were told that they had come from Gambia. There are no permitted wildlife exports from
Gambia. The massive trade in Senegal provides the cover for exports of protected species from Senegal and
other West African countries.

 

 

 

 

 

 

Five Cape Parrots
illegally imported
from Gambia in a
Senegal exporter’s
premises, December
1986. Dave Currey/
E/A

 

In an article in the British Trade publication Cage (Sr Aviary Birds by Tony Silva in 1987 it is stated
that one sub-spec1es, the Gambia Cape Parrot Poiceplmlus robustusfuscicollig, appears to have fallen in the
abyss of extinction.”

. Birds from Guinea, Guinea Bissau, Ghana, Gabon, the Ivory Coast, and Mali are regularly
brought into Senegal for re-exporting to the rest of the world.

Export regulations require an export permit and a sanitary certiﬁcate to travel with the birds.

However, transport agents and customs stated they never see this SEEF permit. Peter Mojen, director Of

Senegal operations for Lufthansa, was not aware of an SEEF ofﬁce at the airport and said that customs
veterinary services have “a very quick look at the birds because they want the birds to leave”. In practiCe
there is no adequate inspection of the numbers, species, or health of the birds.

. The International Air Transport Association’s Live Animal Regulations are lengthy and
confusmg. Even if a shipper or enforcement personnel wanted to understand all the requirements, their

practical implementation in exporting countries is almost impossible.

 

 

 

 




15

Capture, Collection, and Transportation to the Exporter:

Bird trappers work in most areas of Senegal, catching speciﬁc birds as required by the exporters. Many
unwanted species are caught in the net and released. There is no assessment of the damage to these birds
which inevitably suffer mortalities from the stress of capture. They are not included in any of EIA’s
mortality ﬁgures.

Birds are trapped with a “Thiaroye net” measuring 1.5 metres X 0.8 metres with a 1 cm2 mesh.
An area is prepared with some form of bait. It is often water, or for parrots, salt. The net is rolled up and
attached to the ground with pegs. The trapper then pegs a live bird to the ground to act as a decoy.

In the case of parrots, the decoy parrot has its wing feathers cut off before being pegged to the
ground. EIA researchers witnessed a Senegal parrot being used as a decoy in the Casamance region of
Senegal. It was pulled from the cage by one wing and a wooden stick was put in its mouth to prevent it biting
the trappers. Its wing feathers were hacked off with a blunt machete and its leg was tied to a peg by string.
After the parrot freed itself on two occasions by biting through the string, it was tied with wire. The parrot
often tripped over the wire leash and fell on to its back continually screeching, displaying both stress and
panic.

 

 

 

Senegal parrot decoy havmg its wing feathers removed with a blunt .machete by a bird trapper, December 1986.

A trapper conceals himself in a nearby hide and waits for other birds to be lured to the trap. When
sufﬁcient numbers have gathered he pulls on a rope which is attached to the net which closes over the birds.
He then puts these birds into a cage. . .

The birds are taken to the trapper’s home and are kept there for up to a week while he continues
to catch more birds. The birds should be slowly conditioned to cage food at this stage, but because the
change from natural food kills many of the birds, this rarely happens. . . .

Birds caught early in the week are in poor condition by the time the trapper delivers his weekly
catch to the local collector. This may involve a journey by bush taxi or bus, or the collector may hve 1n the

local village. . .
Every week the local collector has birds dellvered to him by up to 20 trappers. The collector pays

trappers with money supplied by the exporter. He must then organise the transportation of the birds to the
exporter’s premises, which are mostly in Dakar, the capital of Senegal.

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Dead Glossy Starlings discarded at the side of the road during transportation to Dakar. Dave Currey/E/A

Most birds are transported by the exporter’s vehicle or by public transport. Both methods involve
very long and arduous journeys of up to 700 kilometres lasting up to 48 hours. .

The vehicles used are sometimes small pick-ups, or worse, public buses which carry cages Of bll‘dS
on roof racks with other luggage. Temperatures in Senegal are very high so that birds are subjected to
prolonged heat. 0

If a collector delivers his own birds to a Dakar dealer he travels from his own village with the blrdS
by bush taxi and then catches a bus to Dakar. In this case he is unlikely to be able to water and feed the buds-
Vehicles often break down leaving the birds in the sun for long periods. EIA witnessed a public bus broken
down on the road to Dakar with crates containing at least 2,300 birds on its roof.

If an exporter sends his own vehicle, it will visit a number of collectors to pick up the birds. EIA
witnessed such a vehicle picking up its last consignment in Kaolack with some 7,650 birds on board. It had
already travelled to three other towns to collect birds. Its home journey after picking up the ﬁrst
consignment was a total of 427 kms, lasting about 12 hours.

Some birds are transported to the exporters’ premises by rail from Mali and by air from
neighbouring countries.

The EIA researchers witnessed the conditions of transportation on a number of occasions. In
each case the birds were overcrowded and there were inadequate precautions taken to minimise sufferlng-

 




 

17

Example:

The following observations were made at the E530 petrol station in Kaolack on 4th December 1986 and
illustrate a regular transportation of birds from different collectors:

Viv Anim’s (Senegal’s second largest bird exporting company) pick-up vehicle arrived at 14.30 hrs
to pick up birds from Samba Diop, a collector and Viv Anim employee from Nioro (65 km from Kaolack).
The vehicle had already driven from Tambacounda, 275 km away where it had picked up birds which had
been brought from:

Distance from
Dakar
Kolda (Distance from Tambacounda 203 kms) 630 kms
Kuonkani (Distance from Tambacounda 127 kms) 554 kms
Velingara (Distance from Tambacounda 103 kms) 530 kms
Kedougou (Distance from Tambacounda 233 kms) 660 kms

The vehicle had then driven to Koussana and Koungheul before arriving in Kaolack where it picked up
Samba Diop’s birds.

The birds had already travelled long distances before being picked up by this vehicle. Birds
transported from Kolda via Tambacounda to Dakar travel for 48 hours.

The vehicle stayed at the Kaolack Esso Station for 11/2 hours and it was noted that:

1. One of the cages on the vehicle contained Senegal parrots. There was a large pile of dead birds on
the cage bottom and some of the living birds were blind.

2. The vehicle was left unattended while children harassed the birds by pulling feathers from the
Senegal parrots.

3. One of the cages contained glossy starlings, of which many were dead while about 50% of the live
ones were blind.

4. Many smaller birds were dead in other cages, and some of the cordon—bleu were bald.

5. The vehicle and the birds were left in the sun with the temperature at 30—35°C for the entire 11/2
hours that the vehicle stayed at the petrol station.

6. Handfuls of birds were roughly moved from one cage to another.

7. When reloading the vehicle a 50 kilo coal bag was put in front of a cage full of small birds. A black

cloud of coal dust billowed into the cage and the birds tried to get away from the dust. The bag
was then stowed in front of the cage blocking off almost all the ventilation.

 

 

 

 

Viv Anim’s pick-up
vehicle at the petrol
station in Kaolack.
Over two thousand
small birds are
packed into each
travelling cage
which measures
1.6m X 0.6m x 0.5m.
25% die en route.
Dave Currey/E/A

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

Grey Parrots in one of Amadou Diallo’s aviaries. In peak season Diallo has 200,000 birds in his premises at one time. Dave Currey/E/A

Export:

There are thirteen licensed bird exporters in Senegal. Two of these, Amadou Diallo and Viv Anim control
about half of the market.

Seven of the ten main exporters are based in the capital of Senegal, Dakar. The birds are delivered
from the rest of Senegal and neighbouring countries. Ideally the birds are released into free—flying aviaries
and allowed to rest for conditioning so that diseases might be detected before export. However, EIA
estimates that on average birds stay at the holding premises for only 61/2 days.

An employee of Viv Anim told researchers that if he received a consignment of Senegal parrots
at the time of the visit, they would be immediately flown to a client. In practice it seems that birds are
exported on demand and there is no control over the holding of these birds. Boubacar Diallo (director of
Viv Anim) stated “Parrots have their own disease and the problem is that we cannot see this immediately.
The parrot will die in two to eight weeks.”

Conditions in the premises differ considerably between exporters. Sometimes a large aviary has
many dead birds littering its floor whereas others are clean. At one establishment the aviaries are cleaned
every morning and excrement, dead birds, and seed husks are removed and the water pots refilled. Most
birds are fed on fonio (a local grass seed) and millet, while parrots are fed on green corn and peanuts.

In the peak season Diallo has 200,000 birds on his premises at any one time. When aviaries are
overcrowded, some birds are kept in travel cages. However, all birds are returned to travel cages before being
packed in air transport cases.

Aviaries containing hundreds of parrots usually have only one species in them, but new arrivals
are added to those already there. This increases the potential spread of disease just prior to export. This is
confirmed by the very high rate of disease in wild caught birds sold by the pet trade in Europe and the USA.

About 200 small birds or 50 parrots are put in an air transport case measuring
0.7 m X 0.2m x 0.45m. They are transferred from travel cages by hand and counted as they are loaded.
Dead birds are discarded. The cases contain water pots although food is added after a consignment is
accepted by the airline to avoid paying for the extra weight.

Birds have to be delivered to the airport 4 hours before the ﬂight departure time.

It is impossible to list all the species of birds exported from Senegal because the ofﬁcial statistics
grossly understate the true export ﬁgure. Official export statistics for 1985 state that 35 different identiﬁed
species were exported with thousands more listed as “others” or “unidentified”.

Of those species listed, some are not on the list for commercial exportation and others far exceed
the allowable annual quota.

Pet trade interests argue that the wild bird trade helps to rid West Africa of crop pests in a region
where food is so valuable. An analysis of the statistics proves that this argument is as spurious as many other
claims of the pet trade.

Only 5 of the 34 species that Senegal authorises for commercial export are allowed to be caught

in unlimited numbers because they are considered pests. These 5 species represent only 5.6% of the total
bird exports according to 1985 export statistics.

 

 




 

 

19
Illegal Trade in Wild Baboons from the Gambia

Since EIA’s last report on the transport conditions in the trade of live caught fauna, published in 1985
(“In}ury, Damage to Health and Cruel Treatment”) our research has concentrated on obtaining up to date
data on the mortality of wild caught birds for the pet trade. We continue to be concerned with all catches
of live fauna and their conditions of transport. Extensive on site investigations have also been undertaken
in Senegal and other countries on the wild-caught primate trade. The traders involved in this are often the
same people that deal in birds and other wildlife.

EIA has discovered a primate smuggling operation out of The Gambia where wildlife is
protected by the Banjul Agreement. ,

“Afrique Océan” is a wildlife exporting company owned by Léon Masfrand who is the French
Consul in Kaolack, Senegal. Masfrand specialises in the export of wild birds for the pet trade and wild

. primates for research laboratories, mainly in the UK, France, Germany and Italy.

Gambian olive baboons are transported in Masfrand’s own vehicle across the border to “Afrique
Ocean”.

  
 
 
 
  
 
 
   

Léon Masfrand, French consul and wildlife
exporter. Dave Currey/E/A

Key for map below:

 

 

roads
__.o—- town or
V i l 1 age 2-5:: 323:1:-:-.
.. - - .. ~ r iver ' :;:;.;.;..

border

   

nnnnnnnnn
.....................

 

 

 

=I.<.s.’.f.ff£.i..r?e

 

-----------------
.................

..............
............

nnnnnnnnnnn

........................
------------------

..........

nnnnnnnn
nnnnnnnn

oooooooo

.................
oooooooooooooooooo

ooooooooooooooooooooooooo
-------------------------

uuuuuuuu
nnnnnnnn

........
n.

oooooooooooooooooooo
--------------
ooooooo

-------------------
ooooooooooooooooooo
...................
ooooooooooooooooooo

 
 

 

   
 
  
 
 
   

” h ’ “ “b: ‘ {$1212:2;I;Z;Z;I;2;l:2;2;2;i;: 3
. R ive r Ga m 1 . . . . . . . . 3:33.
I: ’ ‘ n I' f ;’ ' '.;.:. ..... ' '42:
E ....................................................................................................................................... f I Q’
i ' .- \ Karantaba Tabo Koto
\ ﬁe. ,.r~.é< r\
Farafenni l \ :23: .. a— . ‘
‘ \ ,: _ Georgetown \ ‘
“'9' ‘ '-:‘:-.-:«:-:.' i l i H \ I ‘ a
_V _ ' _ . ~ -.-:-;-:- ----- I , , - ‘
............. G A M B I A ' ~: . . m I

River Gambia

....
nnnnnnn
ooooooooooo
uuuuuuuuuuuuuuu

  
  

  
   

 

 

o

......
---------------------
oooooooooooooooooooo

oooooooooooooooooooooooooooo

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

20

On 4th December 1986 an EIA team Visited “Afrique Ocean” and interviewed Masfrand about
his wildlife trade. They returned the following day and were introduced to Boundia Gisse’, the Village chief
of Karantaba Tabo Koto in The Gambia. He explained that he was there to sell Wild-caught. baboons to
Masfrand whom he regularly dealt with. His catcher had 54 baboons held in the trap near his Village and he
expected Masfrand to send his vehicle to pick them up. . 0 . . . . . .

On 6th December the EIA team travelled with Boundia Cissé to his Village which is Situated in a
remote area near the Gambia River. The next day they were taken to the village of Kata on the Gambia River.
From there they walked into the forest where the baboons were trapped. . .

EIA saw 54 live baboons kept in two wire sections of the large trap. Many were iniured from
ﬁghting in the cramped conditions. An infant was dying because it was unable to suckle. Its mother had
been killed soon after capture along with ten others because they were too large to sell to Masfrand. (The
vivisection laboratories demand baboons of weights under 41/2 kgs.) The eleven corpses were piled on to
of each other a few metres away in the bushes. Under them were the skeletal remains of other baboons killed
after capture a few weeks earlier.

 

Dead Olive Baboons
illegally caught in Gambia
and then killed by trappers
because they are too
large for vivisection
laboratories.

Dave Currey/E IA

 

 

The larger baboons were killed by using a wire noose on the end of a stick which was put round
their necks while they were still in the cage trap. They were then strangled to death. The bodies were then
removed and piled nearby. The mortality rate during capture for the baboons seen by EIA was 17%. From
the conditions of the animals it was clear that there would be further fatalities while they were kept in the
cage trap.

Boundia Cissé explained that when Masfrand did not buy all of their primates, they offered them
to Samba Thiam, Senegal’s other primate dealer.

. Masfrand sends an employee from his premises in Senegal with one of his vehicles to collect the
baboons in Gambia. The loaded vehicle is driven across the border at night to Koumpentoum in Senegal.

It then drives directly to “Afrique Ocean” in Kaolack along the main Tambacounda road to Kaolack.
The baboons are kept in Masfrand’s holding premises before export. Masfrand conﬁrmed that his

major clients are “CLIN-MIDY (a French pharmaceutical company), CNRS (French National Centre for
Scientiﬁc Research), and the Atomic Energy Commission (France).

Masfrand also stated that “A few medical faculties buy them as well, I’m not sure what for, I

think they cut them into little pieces!! . . . In the UK my main client is Shamrock (Farms).”

Masfrand buys the illegally smuggled baboons for £4 and sells them for 5350 each. Masfrand states
that he exports “700 to 1,000” primates each year.

Ten baboons are packed into an air transport crate measuring 1m >< 0.6m x 0.5m and are ﬂown
to the importing country. Masfrand obtains the relevant export licenc

e which states the country of origin
as Senegal.

 

 

 




 

 

21

This illegal capture and smuggling of primates by an ofﬁcial representative of the French
Government underlines the inability of most countries to control wildlife traders. Illegal capture and
smuggling is commonplace and easy to undertake because of lax enforcement in both exporting and
importing countries.

The lack of enforcement of wildlife protection laws in Senegal and Gambia is matched by the
equally ineffective enforcement in the UK and France. Despite the efforts of a few committed individuals,
neither country has any serious control over the imports of wild primates, or other wild caught species.

In the UK, as in France, the government authorities wish to ignore their obligation to protect
wild caught animals, in line with domestic and international law. In the UK, the Ministry of Agriculture,
Fisheries and Food (MAFF) is unable to even specify the numbers of primates imported each year.

The major importer, Shamrock Farms, is virtually unmonitored by the UK Government. Their
van collects the crates of primates arriving at Gatwick airport and transports them to their premises. A local
vet without any specialised training is supposed to monitor the well—being of the imported primates. The
primates at Shamrock Farms are kept in undersized cages, in which they are unable to stand up. An ex-
employee of Shamrock Farms has testiﬁed to the very poor treatment meted out to the primates at Shamrock
Farms.

Baby baboon dying in the
illegal trap. Its mother was
killed by the trapper.
Dave Currey/E/A

 

EIA IS THEREFORE CALLING FOR:

1. The immediate dismissal of Léon Masfrand as the consul of France in Senegal.

2- A full investigation in France of the illegal import of baboons originating from Gambia, and an
investigation into the activities of Masfrand in Senegal and his exports to France.

3- An investigation by the UK Government of the validity of permits accompanying primates
imported by Shamrock Farms into the UK.

4. An investigation by the UK Government of the conditions of transport of primates imported into
the UK by Shamrock Farms.

5. A review of the enforcement procedures in the UK which oversee the import and monitoring of

the well—being of imported primates.

This demonstrates conditions from capture to export which are likely to promote disease. Wild-caught
primate imports undoubtedly present health hazards to the. people who come in contact Wlth.th€m,
especially customs ofﬁcers and cargo handlers who are the ﬁrst in line. It 18 known that a number of diseases
are transmittable between primates and man including measles, tuberculosm and Herpes Virus B.
Mr R E Hackett, former Managing Director of Shamrock Farms and client of “Afrique Ocean” observes
“The imported monkey is a dangerous commodity . . . a potential hazard to humans who come in contact
with it . . . (and) it poses a very real danger to other creatures . . .”

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

22
The Pet Trade’s Massive Wastage of Parrots

EIA has discussed the consumer market with many experienced importers and ex-importers who dealt with
the bird-buying public on a day to day basis. It is apparent that the commercial trade in wild—caught birds
for the pet trade results in almost 100% mortality within one year, thereby continuing the demand. Only
a handful of exporters, importers and airlines beneﬁt from the pet trade in wild-caught birds.

Gordon Cooke states that “From 1950—1980 I was a major UK importer and exporter of birds.
For 15 years I specialised in softbills and ﬁnches and in some years I handled as many as 20,000 ﬁnches, most
of which originated in Senegal . . . the birds that are imported soon die no matter where they go and I would
think it doubtful if 1% of ﬁnches are alive after one year.”

Mary Smith, who has imported parrots to the UK and has bred them for many years said that
“lots of the birds [parrots] that were sold out that were thought to be healthy birds, over that ﬁrst year
people would get back and say that they had lost them for no good logical reason. Except for the fact that
they just weren’t going to settle in captivity . . . possibly ten out of 100 birds [parrots] survive after one
year.”

Serious aviculturists have conﬁrmed to EIA that their interest in breeding exotic birds would not
suffer from the ending of the commercial import of wild—caught birds for the pet trade. In fact some have
gone so far as to suggest that aviculture would beneﬁt, citing the example of the successful breeding of
Australian birds after Australia imposed an export ban. The ending of the mass trade would also cut down
on the importation of diseases which badly affect aviary bred birds.

The pet trade in parrots, as other species, cannot be carried on without injury, damage to health
or cruel treatment causing pointless major mortalities. For this trade living specimens are expendable
commodities for the consumer market as long as supplies last.

Lovebirds sent from Tanzania to Los Angeles where they were refused entry and re-exported to the UK. This reject shipment was dead on arrival
in the UK. Gordon Cooke

 

 

 

 

 




 

23

TABLE 4:
Mortality Rates in Air Transport and Quarantine Only
Among Wild Caught Psittacines to Four Importing Countries

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

- Psittacines Mortality in Quarantine
Period Country Imported Transport 86 Q’tine Period
1982—June 1986 Denmark 15,115 26. 8% 42 days
1980—]une 1984 Sweden 68,817 18.5% 56 days
1983—1985 UK 80,087 17.5% 35 days
1980—1984 USA1 1,080,415 21.0% 30 days
1 Analysed from G. Nilsson (AWI) data from US Dept. of Agriculture.

TABLE 5: _
Mortality Rates in Air Transport and Quarantine Among All Wild Caught Species,
Including Psittacines, to Four Importing Countries

- All Species Mortality in Quarantine
Period Country Imported Transport 8C Q’tine Period
1982—June 1986 Denmark1 140,115 Records kept for 42 days

Psittacines only
(Psittacines only)
1980—June 1986 Sweden 291 ,6662 16. 6% 56 days
1983—1985 UK3 529,978 17.6% 35 days
1980—1984 USA 3, 849,201 20.0% 30 days
1 Ofﬁcial estimate of annual non-psittacine imports is 25,000. No records kept.
2 Included in this ﬁgure are 141,191 captive bred budgerigars and cockatiels imported by air and road with a mortality

rate of 11.6%
3 From 1980—82 UK’s mortality rate was 16.3%. The reason for the increase is unknown. Imported pet bird data
appears to be a State secret not available for independent analysis. Former UK dealers categorically state ofﬁcial

ﬁgures grossly understate the real scale of mortalities, usually due to disease.
4 From G. Nilsson/USDA. The ﬁgure includes birds refused entry to the US due to disease (1.9% of the total).

Particularly Danish, but also US, mortalities indicate losses are higher among psittacines in
parrot consumer countries. Since 1982 Sweden made compulsory high doses of antibiotics to imported birds
to reduce levels of disease in quarantine. Losses are unavoidable even though Sweden strives to avoid
destruction and loss of CITES listed species, by extending quarantine for months, if necessary.

These mortalities in transport and quarantine must be considered in the context of massive
mortalities in the countries of origin during capture, transport and holding prior to export as identiﬁed in
the previous text on Senegal. Substantial mortalities also occur after quarantine periods have been

completed.

Birds packed in air transport cases to be flown
from Senegal to France. Dave Currey/E/A

 

 

 




 

 

24

Causes of Mortality

IATA’s Live Animals “Regulations” state . . . “carriers will not be liable for any loss, damage or expense
from death due to natural causes”. There is nothing whatsoever natural in mortalities resulting from bad
preparation and shipment of live wild animals. IATA’s Live Animals Regulations recognise this in their
comments on fear and stress.

There is extensive scientiﬁc literature on the relationship between stress and infectious diseases
among animals and humans. Professor M. A. Simpson (Durban), a specialist in the relationship between
stress and disease, states “. . . there is a very clear relationship between stress and disease”. Of wild
animals in shipment he conﬁrms that “Their stress is likely to be quantitatively worse . . . No
anthropomorphism is necessary — only anthropomorphic thinkers can assume the incomprehensible
experience of shipment could be non-stressful”.

Given the poor crating, lack of food and water, delays in transit, often poor stowage in aircraft,
dirt, overcrowding and temperature extremes suffered by living specimens in trade, the high frequency of
bird shipments by air arriving diseased, dehydrated and emaciated makes the health certificate system a
meaningless paper formality.

Senegal parrots in air transport cases being loaded onto a “German Cargo” flight to Frankfurt at Dakar airport The case on the left was dropped
and although peanuts were redistributed, the water pots were not refilled before departure. Dave Currey/E/A

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




25

EIA analysed import records of a Danish dealer over a four years period. 52.4% of psittacine
imports received by this dealer were infected with Zoonoses (disease affecting people and animals). 35% of
non-psittacine import shipments were contaminated with zoonoses.

EIA’s preliminary analysis of Danish and Swedish veterinary reports shows numbers of diseased
import shipments received from all countries.

 

 

N 0. of shipments Diseases/Causes ofdeatbs
67 Non—speciﬁed intestinal and respiratory infections1
66 Salmonella"‘ .
33 Bad preparation and shipmentz’ 3
22 Psittacosis:“
10 Aspergillosis"‘
9 Newcastle’s Disease
"‘Zoonoses

1 Disease symptoms were manifest as urethral infections, peritonitis, bronchitis, pneumonia, haemorrhagic enteritis,
pseudomembranous enteritis, catarrhal enteritis, necrotic enteritis, mycotic tracheal infections. Also reported in
the above shipments were pasteurellosis, E. coli infections, trichomoniasis, tapeworm and round worm
infestations. Pacheco’s disease also appeared in shipments from Argentina, Guyana and Togo, West Africa.

2 Bad preparation and shipment refers to shipments reported as overcrowded, containing injured birds, birds of
mixed species wounded in ﬁghting or found cannibalised, dehydration, starvation and cases of unﬂedged
psittacines and other birds too young to feed themselves and hence unﬁt for shipment.

3 Exporting or re—exporting countries appearing more than once in reports of bad shipments were Senegal, Singapore,
Tanzania, Madagascar and the Netherlands.

50 Senegal parrots crammed into an air transport case at Dakar airport, Senegal. Dave Currey/E/A

 

 

EIA inspected the crate store of Sweden’s largest dealer in birds. From all countries exporting to
Sweden the crates were kept for re—use after fumigation; some probably for Canada to where 89.8% of
Sweden’s re—exported psittacines are sold. .

All crates resembled IATA—LAR designs. None conformed with the “Regulations”. The ofﬁc1al
veterinarian and dealer both agreed that the crates had been overcrowded with birds on arrival. Water and
food receptacles were lacking, as was sufﬁcient ventilation and/ or sliding doors. In many cases the contents
of crates were impossible for wildlife or health inspectors to see without opening them; which usually
cannot be done because most airports have no facilities to do it.

The UK, unlike the USA, Denmark and Sweden refused EIA access to ofﬁcial records of wild
caught bird imports. However, sample data on ten shipments received between Qctober 1984 and March
1985 were supplied. The sample was “not claimed to be representative in any statistical sense”. However,
analysis shows comparable results with the full data made available from other countries.

 




 

 

 

26

Sample UK Mortality Rates Among Wild Birds as Percentages of Numbers Imported

— Psittacines from Ghana died of Salmonella;

— from Guyana and India of Psittacosis;

— from Peru the cause(s) were undiagnosed;

— from Senegal “chilling in transport”;

— from Tanzania some mortalities were undiagnosed, others were stated to have died from PMV3
and Salmonella;

— of 5,023 non—psittacines from China 8.9% were dead on arrival with a further 31.3% loss in
quarantine.

TABLE 6:
UK Quarantine Mortalities Showing Weekly Death Rates
(Analysis of ten sample shipments Sept. 1984—Mar. 1985, supplied by MAFF)

MORTALITY RATES AS PERCENTAGE OF NUMBERS IMPORTED (by week)

 

 

 

 

 

Days in Quarantine
Imported DoA’i 1-7 8—14 15—21 22—28 29—35 TOTAL
Psittacines 1,406 1.6% 12.7% 13.0% 2.6% 1.6% 1.0% 32.5%
Seedeaters 6,880 2.8% 17.8% 3.3% 1.6% 1.3% 0.3% 27.1%
Softbills 3,382 10.6% 24.0% 9.6% 3.2% 2.0% 0.3% 49.7%
TOTALS: 11,668 4.90/0 19.00/0 6.3 0/o 2.20/0 1.50/0 0.30/0 34.2 0/o

 

"‘Dead on Arrival

A complete shipment of 150 various parrots from India dead on arrival. They died of Newcastles Disease. Gordon Cooke

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

27

Overall wild bird 1mport mortalities 1n the UK increased from 16. 3% for the period 1980—82 to
17.6% during 1983— 85. The UK Ministry claimed not to have staff available to analyse the reasons, but
refused EIA permission to do the job for them. It 15 unlikely however, that the situation in the UK 18
changed from that shown 1n EIAs detailed analyses of 1980—82 material (obtained without Ministry
permission) which was comparable to data from Sweden and Denmark. Some former UK dealers
interviewed by EIA dismiss ofﬁcial UK ﬁgures of psittacine mortalities as gross understatements.

In the US, Nilsson and EIA (1984) reported the greatest variety of birds imported were
psittacines. Some 23 species suffered losses exceeding 40% in transport and quarantine.

As noted by EIA (1984) psittacines, particularly Macaws (Am spp. ) and Amazon parrots
(Amazonica spp. ), are popular in the US. A likely influence 18 pet trade advertising of birds for sale on
television and 1n journals, often as “special offers”. One such TV advert showed a Hyacinth Macaw as the

"star attraction. The result was a massive increase in bird imports, from 282,557 birds imported in 1976
rising steadily to 913,6535“ in 1984. Over this period, around 20% of all of these imported birds — 778,097 —
died during transport and quarantine, or were refused entry due to disease.

Nilsson shows bird imports from 20 countries to the US sustained mortality rates of from 23—
55%, e. g. Thailand 55%; Iceland 45%; Mali 36%; West Germany, 29%; Senegal 27%; Netherlands 23%
Bad preparation and shipment causes mortality losses irrespective of whether birds are from poorer
countries of origin or rich re- exporting states.

From EIA data (1984) compiled at London Heathrow on birds in transit to the US, the heaviest
mortalities were among psittacines.

During 1980—84 the US refused entry to 71,747 diseased birds, or about 1.9% of total imports,
though many more died of disease later in quarantine, and after release from it. Most refused entry were
psittacines which were re-exported from the US. This policy is not only detrimental to animal and, possibly,
human health but also (a) violates other US law, as well as IATA Live Animals “Regulations” by permitting
the shipment of unﬁt animals, and (b) it increases risks of spreading disease to other countries.

While in transit, shipments of animals and birds from various countries are often placed near each
other so facilitating easy cross infection.

"‘This ﬁgure should be regarded as a minimum. In 1984 Singapore recorded three times as many bird exports

to the US than were recorded by USDA. Senegal ﬁgures also may be higher.

Recently imported South American parrots and macaws crammed in a buyer’s freezer after dying from disease. Dave Currey

 

 

 

 




 

 

I 1.“:

 

 

 

28

People, Zoonoses and the Pet Trade

Psittacosis (ornithosis) refers to a contagious disease caused by the bacterium Chlamydia psittaci. It is a
zoonosis, i. e. a disease transmissible between animals and people and vice versa. Though known in over 130
bird species the disease is more common among parrots (psittacines). Among birds in the wild it causes no
known problems. The evidence shows it is activated to produce sickness through stresses caused by
trapping and conﬁnement, shipment, crowding, nutritional deﬁciency, human proximity to wild frightened
captives, handling, noise and temperature changes.

All these stresses are an inevitable accompaniment to the commercial pet bird trade, through
which a less than 5% natural infection may increase to 100% morbidity. Action through CITES to deal with
this trade-inﬂated disease problem has not minimised the risks as the Convention demands.

C. psittaci strains of avian origin are highly infectious to humans. The most common source of
psittacosis among people 1s wild exotic birds imported by the pet trade. Despite undergoing quarantine for
56 or more days 1n Sweden, outbreaks of psittacosis in humans continue, originating from pet shops.
Dealers handling infected birds may not contract disease, having an acquired 1mmunity, though some have
had the disease more than once.

In people psittacosis may appear as a mild fever or “flu-like” illness, or as pneumonia. Other
typhoidal or toxic symptoms may include malaise, anorexia, rigours, nausea and vomiting, poly-arthritis,
myalgia, headache, abdominal pain, delirium and unconsciousness. Hepatitis, myocarditis, endocarditis
and meningitis are some complications that have occurred among patients affected. The disease is

potentially fatal to humans: in the past four years ﬁve people have died in the Cambridge, UK, area
alone.

The bacterium Chlamydia psittaci which causes psittacosis. Most common among parrots this diseases can be transmitted to humans.
Public Health Laboratory Service, Bristol

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

29

Many cases of psittacosis are apparently misdiagnosed, with most probably labelled as a-typical
pneumonia. It is certain that the true incidence is under—reported as noted by experience in Sweden. When
the Swedish Medical Association called doctors’ attention to the disease the number of diagnosed cases
tripled in a single year: from 86 in 1980 to 255 in 1981.

In the United States, strict prohibitions on imports were introduced after a 1929/1930 outbreak
of human psittacosis, which resulted in a 20% mortality among those affected. These controls were
gradually relaxed in 1967, and eventually ended with the introduction of quarantine for bird imports.

Between 1969 and 1978 the number of US States reporting human psittacosis rose from 16 to 30.
Individual cases reported increased from 58 in 1969 to 172 in 1984. From 1973 to 1978 the number of cases
not linked to poultry increased annually. The highest risk category in humans has been shown to be pet bird
owners and pet trade employees.

The Infectious Disease Section of California State Health Department (1983) considered that “for
every documented, reported human case, it is likely that up to 100 may occur and be undetected”.

The National Association of State Public Health Veterinarians (NHSPHV) considered that
although psittacosis might be theoretically controllable with antibiotics, prevention among humans by
proper treatment and handling of psittacines during commercial distribution was essential. The present
volume of parrots in international trade makes such treatment and handling virtually impossible. The pet
trade as well as IATA, despite its Live Animal Regulations, encourage the disease through promotion of the
international trade in wild caught birds.

If the real US incidence of human psittacosis was commensurate with Sweden, which in 1981 was
3.1 per 100,000 population, the real number of infected persons in the US that year may have been around
6,696. If the California State Health Department estimate of 100 cases for each one reported is correct, the
number of US cases of human psittacosis may have been 13,600.

Although the US Pet Industry’s Joint Advisory Council (PIJAC) claims its members have the
“right to do business in an humane public spirited way”, a former pet store employee sued and won
US$12,000 in back pay for being “discriminately” sacked after reporting to public health authorities birds
in the store had died with signs of psittacosis.

Airlines are importing zoonoses with the live wildlife that they carry for the pet trade. Dave Currey/E/A

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




30

A 1985 Centre for Disease Control (CDC) report found culture positive C. psittaci bacteria in
44% of Minnesota/ St. Paul pet shops, with the risk of exposure present in pet shops directly carried over
to the pet buying population. National surveillance of psittacosis in humans more often incriminated
commonly imported psittacines than captive bred specimens.

An American Medical Association (AMA) report on Salmonella noted 12—17% of salmonella
cases in Puerto Rican infants were attributable to pet turtles, and that the trade may be an important
worldwide source of salmonella infections which are said to be a high priority of the World Health
Organisation. However, the US pet trade continues to export the turtles after inadequate preventative
treatment. IATA airlines continue to carry them.

TABLE 7:
Wild Birds Imported to the USA in Relation to Reported Human Psittacosis Cases
1976—1984

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Dead on Arrival, Died in Reported human
Year No. of birds imported1 Quarantine, Refused Entry1 Psittacosis cases2
1976 282,551 104,052 78
1977 449,965 106,283 94
1978 638,564 126,786 140
1979 473,226 104,743 137
1980 700,849 109,473 124
1981 647,172 130,131 136
1982 778,080 224,038 152
1983 809,447 142,723 142
1984 913,653 171,732 172
TOTALS: 5,693,507 1,219,961 (21%) 1,175

 

1 Source: USDA-APHIS
2 Notiﬁable Diseases USA 1975—84, p. 124.

NB: The ﬁgures in column 3 include birds dead from all causes, and those refused entry to the US due to Newcastle
Disease that either were destroyed or re-exported as the result.

In the UK psittacosis is not a notiﬁable disease. The Public Health Laboratory Service (1981)
found a sharp increase in the proportion of tests for psittacosis on birds in 1980. The British MedicalJournal
(1984) noted over 300 human psittacosis cases reported annually since 1980. On advice from the Cambridge
Health Authority three District Councils have issued orders, now awaiting conﬁrmation, which will make
psittacosis a notiﬁable disease in their areas.

In the US, Sweden and the UK, the evidence indicates the increase in human psittacosis has
developed during the same period in which all three countries permitted resumed imports of psittacines in
substantial numbers.

The UK refused EIA access to records of bird imports so it was not possible to undertake analyses
comparable with those for Denmark, Sweden and the US. In the small sample of UK data given to EIA bird
shipments were imported from seven countries: from Guyana and India psittacine mortalities were caused
by psittacosis; while psittacines in shipments from Ghana and Tanzania died of salmonella. Birds from
China were treated with antibiotics implying they too were infected, making a total of ﬁve diseased
shipments from the seven different exporting countries in only ten sample shipments made available to EIA.

In 1987 an experienced UK aviculturist visited several UK quarantine premises, considering some
“appalling”, despite a 1984 revision of controls after outbreaks of Newcastle’s Disease. In one, 6,000 birds,
mainly psittacines, were destroyed at a pet shop where they had been taken prematurely from quarantine.

Psittacosis has appeared at least twice among personnel handling bird shipments in animal hostels
at London, Heathrow airport.

Capture, transport and post-transport stresses, unhygienic containers and cages, thirst,
hunger, unnatural crowding and wrong feeding maximise risks of the spread of disease.

 

 




 

 

31

If the incidence of psittacosis in the UK was comparable with that of Sweden (3.1 per 100,000
human population) there may have been 1,700 cases rather than the reported 352 in 1981. If, as suggested by
California authorities, there were 100 cases undetected for each one reported the number may have been as
high as 3,520. In the year May 1986/April 1987, 50 cases with high blood levels of antibodies to C. psittaci
have been identiﬁed by Cambridge Health Authority. An incidence equivalent to 17 per 100,000 human
population for that area, over ﬁve times that of Sweden.

 

 

 

TABLE 8:
Zoonosis Acquired from Pets — England and Wales, 19 75—1984

Psittacosis in Humans,
Year Wild Birds Imported Lab. Reports Registered Deaths
1975 370,6791 176 2
1976 123,6551 168 —
1977 108,9082 128 2
1978 148,782 112 1
1979 248,672 165 2
1980 255,548 378 2
1981 243,183 352 —
1982 213,667 309 1
1983 274,257 362 2
1984 86,261 411 —
TOTALS: 2,073,612 2,561 11

 

1 H.M. Customs and Excise ﬁgures,
2 for 1977 and later years ﬁgures are those of MAFF.

Workers at London’s Heathrow
Airport’s Animal Quarantine
Station wear protective gear to
minimise risk of infection from
the animals that they handle.
Dave Currey/E IA

 

 

 

 




 

 

32

In Denmark psittacosis is not a notiﬁable disease. The average 100 or so cases reported annually
are treated with antibiotics. One outbreak occurred in a pet shop at the end of December 1984. By 15th
January 1985 29 cases had been registered in the area. Three persons died: a nearby shop owner, a regular
pet shop customer; and a 19 years old young man dating a girl in the pet shop. The Wives of two of the dead
developed the disease and eight hospitalised persons were conﬁrmed as having been near this pet shop.

Of 61 psittacine shipments imported by a single Danish pet trader over a four years period, 13
(21.3%) contained parrots with psittacosis. Another 13 (21.3%) shipments were infected with salmonella;
14 (23%) were affected with an undiagnosed enteritis; tapeworm appeared in 4 (6.5%), and aspergillosis in
1 (1.6%). A total of 52.4% of this pet trader’s parrot imports were potentially harmful to people. Among
non—psittacine bird imports the incidence of zoonoses was 35%.

Wild yellow-crowned Amazon Parrot. Bernard/NHPA

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

33

 

 

TABLE 9:
Human Psittacosis Cases: Sweden, 1971—1984
Human Cases: °/o per 100,000 °/o in known Birds (Psittacines)

Year Clinic Laboratory of population contact with released from

diagnosis diagnosis pet birds Quarantine
1971 40 41 0.5 40 2,700
1972 54 61 0. 7 22 5,100
1973 45 32 0.6 38 6,800
1974 57 51 0.7 37 13,500
1975 60 41 0. 7 40 6,000
1976 66 60 0.8 57 10,500
1977 108 72 1.3 44 26,600
1978 85 73 1.0 49 41,300
1979 102 87 1.2 46 51,700
1980 86 89 1.0 50 46,300
1981 255 215 3.1 — 37,406
1982 235 215 2.8 —— 18,634
1983 197 163 2.4 —— 19,911
1984 163 155 2.0 — 10,002’5
1985 117 111 1.4 — 14,883’5
1986 87 86 1.0 —— n/a

 

=5 CITES listed spp. only

In Sweden psittacosis was made a notiﬁable disease by recommendation of the Swedish Medical
Association (SMA) in 1982. After SMA drew the attention of physicians to the disease in 1980, 86 cases were
reported. This tripled to 255 reported cases in 1981. The graphs below show the increased numbers of birds
released from quarantine precedes the rise in human psittacosis cases. The results of close attention to the
disease are shown vividly in the Swedish Biological Laboratory histogram. The EIA graph also illustrates
the correlation between birds imported and the increase in human psittacosis.

Despite Sweden’s vigilant care the disease continues to appear in psittacines after completion of
56 days’ quarantine. In November 1986 several hundred persons visited a new pet shop on the opening day.
One month later it was closed down, since 30 of these people were being treated for psittacosis. In only one
case was there no contact with birds reported.

Israel has recently suspended psittacine imports due to psittacosis among birds re-exported from
Belgium even though the shipments arrived with health certiﬁcates. Israel also has suspended pet turtle

imports due to the risks of salmonellosis.

Conclusion

Chlamydia psittaci bacteria cause no known problems among wild birds in the natural state. It becomes
the cause of disease among birds and people as a direct result of the pet trade which is so conducted as
to maximise injury, damage to health and cruel treatment. The trade and airlines carrying the birds are
foci of infection. Accordingly all trade in birds for the pet trade should be limited to captive bred

specimens only. . . .
This report makes clear the risks to the pet trade and airlines, ofﬁc1al enforcement agents,

airline cargo personnel and the customers of pet shops.

 




34
Correlation of Human Psittacosis with Wild Bird Imports

The graphs of human psittacosis cases and wild bird imports show an apparent correlation between the two
sets of data. Changes in the reported annual incidence of human psittacosis appear to follow changes in the
numbers of bird imports.

The table below shows correlation coefﬁcients of human psittacosis cases with wild bird imports
from the USA, Sweden and the UK. Bird imports were compared ﬁrstly with reported psittacosis cases
from the same years and secondly with cases from the following years. All coefﬁcients indicate a positive
correlation. Comparison of psittacosis cases with wild bird imports from the previous year gives a stronger
correlation, with the exception of the USA. This could be because the data from the USA does not ﬂuctuate
as much as that from Sweden and the UK. Swedish data taken after 1981 when psittacosis was made
notiﬁable, gives a much stronger correlation than data from 1971 to 1985?“

Data from the USA, where psittacosis was notiﬁable throughout the period studied, gives by far
the strongest correlation. Data from England and Wales where psittacosis is not notiﬁable is least reliable
and shows the weakest correlation.

Therefore it appears that the more reliable the data from the country concerned, the stronger the
correlation between the incidence of human psittacosis and the imports of wild caught birds.

(=5 Note that there are only ﬁve data points for the “same year” and four for the “following year”.)

TABLE 10:

Showing Correlation Coefficients of Wild Bird Imports with:

I) Reported Human Psittacosis Cases From the Same Year

ll) Reported Human Psittacosis Cases From the Following Year

 

 

 

Country Years Correlation Coefﬁcients (4)
(I) (11) .

Same Year Followmg
Year
USA 1976—1984 0.884 0.836
England 8c Wales 1975—1984 0.103 0.471
Sweden (1) 1971-1985 0.303 0.552
1981—19853 0.743 0.912
(2) 1971—1985 0.277 0.567
1981—1985 0.640 0.978

 

 

= no correlation, 1 = positive correlation, i.e. the closer the coefﬁcient to 1 the stronger the correlation
between human psittacosis cases and wild bird imports

(1) Clinically diagnosed psittacosis
(2) Laboratory diagnosed psittacosis
(3) Psittacosis made notiﬁable in 1981
(4) Wild bird imports (x)

Psittacosis cases (y)

 

 




 

35

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

People viewing wild birds for sale at the Paris bird market Most members of the public are unaware of the human health risks associated with pet
birds. Pierre G/eizes

 

 

400- ~400
0
360- ' -360
320— \ / -320 ::
é 280- -280 g
s ' 3
'0 O o
g 240- . ”240 i
\ GRAPH A:
2% ' _200§ Comparison of Wild Bird Imports
V with Human Psittacosis Cases in
"\ -. _ England and Wales (1975—1984)
160— O - Wild Bird Imports ~160

' ‘ Human Psittacosis Cases

.
120- “120
\. \-

 

 

 

 

 

 




36

 

 

 

GRAPH B:
Comparison of Wild Bird Imports with

Human Psittacosis Cases in Sweden
(1971—1985)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

GRAPH C:
Comparison of Wild Bird Imports with

Reported Human Psittacosis Cases in
the USA (1976—1984)

651 I F260
60 - \ -240
l
55- r 220
n———-D
C
50- \ I ~ 200
O
45 - - 180
"73 ° u
3 40* -160
0
.E
- g
g 3
0' 35- -l40 :
E o
e a
m a
E 9..
'o
2 q _ 2.
g 30 120 3
’6 J 8
° 2.
.5 Q w
.5 ' -
9: / \ - 100
m
E
ii .
I 0/ '
o - 80
/ ./
D/D
r60
0 _ Birds Released From .40
Quarantine
I — Clinically Diagnosed
Human Psittacosis Cases
[3 _. Laboratory Diagnosed .30
Human Psittacosis Cases
I I l l I I
79 8O 81 82 83 84
No. of Birds
Imported by USA
(x104)
100‘
9 0‘
80-

'10-

 

.\I \/-/ "140
o \ \l/ ‘
60_ ~120
50- ”100
0

Reported Human
Psittacosis Cases

-200

””,,,z—‘ #160

 

 

 

'80

30. -60
0

~40

20- o — Wild Bird Imports
. _ Reported Human Psittacosis Cases
10‘ -20
l I I 1 l I l 0

1976 77 78 79 80 81 82 83 84

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 




 




 

INJURY, DAMAGE TO HEALTH
AND CRUEL TREATMENT

PRESENT CONDITIONS IN THE SHIPMENT OE LIVE EAUNA

 

 

 

 

 

A report by the
Environmental Investigation Agency

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

Written and researched by

John Brookland

Cheryl Hora
and

Nick Carter

of the

Environmental Investigation Agency

Wbmmeem, ENVIRONMENTAL INVESTIGATION glandxrifel: 01a3~54w2347
AGENCY (EIA)
208-9 Upper Street
LONDON N1 1RL
Tel: 01404-9441

Photographs by John Brookland with thanks to Roy Oliver for
photographic advice and assistance.

Copyright 1985 by the authors and Environmental Investigation Agency (EIA).
All rights reserved.

. Published by:
Animal Welfare Institute, PO Box 3650, Washington DC 20007, USA
and
Humane Society of the United States, 2100 L Street NW, Washington DC 20037, USA

Front Cover Photograph:
One of ten Giant squirrels imported by a UK zoo from Indonesia packed in plastic
tubes and stacked within a wooden crate. Two of the squirrels died during transit
and the rest were in poor condition.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

CONTENTS

Foreword by Sir Peter Scott, CBE, DSC ................................ 3
Introduction .................................................. 5
The Catching and Preparation of Live Speciments for Shipment ................. 6
Mortality Caused by the Trade: Examples ............................... 6
Some Incidents of Injury, Damage to Health and Cruel Treatment ............... 10
Mortality During Quarantine and Holding Following Transport ................. 14
Observations on Some Causes of Mortality .............................. 14
Importance of Animal Holding Facilities at Major Airports .................... 20
The UK Transit of Animals (General) Order, 1973 ......................... 22
Avoidance of Heathrow Airport, London ............................... 22
Standards of Inspection at Points of Export and Import ...................... 24
Traders in Wildlife .............................................. 24
Diseases and Health Risks ......................................... 25
The IATA Live Animals Regulations Manual ............................. 26
CITES Guidelines for Transport of Live Wild Animals ....................... 28
Practical Application of CITES Requirements: Some Problems .................. 28
Conclusions and Recommendations ................................... 3-1

Appendix: UK Transit of Animals (General) Order, 1973 ..................... 34

 




 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

FOREWORD

I welcome this Study of commercial trade in live animals, although its findings are
devastating. The Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna
and Flora stands foursquare for protection of animals 1n transit against damage to health and
cruel treatment. Indeed, the text of the treaty repeats this provision in several different
sections. But the photographs reproduced here and accompanied by first- hand reports show
how disastrously these requirements, ratified by 87 nations, are being ignored.

Countries that export birds, primates and other animals need the facts and
recommendations in this Study. No nation would willingly lose a substantial part of its
wildlife heritage through the cruelty and death inflicted on the animals exported to make
large profits for international animal dealers. But the middlemen in this business are reluctant
to provide enough space or even adequate facilities for feeding and watering en route because
they grudge the relatively small cost of making proper provision for the animals. Airlines,
too, must bear their share of the blame when they accept animals crated in such a way that
they are likely to suffocate or die of thirst, or when they are exposed to extremes of
temperature for lack of staff attention.

There are some encouraging signs that this appalling trade will be curtailed. For
example, wild birds will no longer be imported for sale in New York State when their Wild
Bird Act comes into effect later this year. The new law arises from public concern for exotic
birds suffering extreme privation and disease in commercial shipments. Mortality figures are
staggering in many cases, and after arrival more deaths occur while they are being held in
quarantine. Some species of birds have been severely depleted in the wild through excesses of.
the pet trade. The gravity of the situation calls for urgent action by governments and
organisations concerned for the humane treatment of animals and for their continued
existence in the wild.

This booklet summarises only part of a study being undertaken by the authors,
and uses excerpts from a more detailed report so that a wider group of readers can be made
aware of the situation.

Sir Peter Scott, CBE, DSC.
Slimbridge,

Gloucester.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

INTRODUCTION

This booklet is a summary of a 490-page study entitled ‘The Preparation and Shipment of
Wild Fauna in International Trade Carried by Air’. The four years work for this study was
undertaken solely on the initiative of the authors. The project was not funded by any
organisation, but was, however, endorsed by the Secretariat of the Convention on
International Trade in Endangered Species (CITES) and the Wildlife Trade Monitoring Unit
(WTMU) of the International Union for the Conservation of Nature (IUCN).

The terms of this study are defined in the Convention on International Trade in
Endangered Species (CITES) in those clauses that specify:

‘Management Authorities of the Parties shall be satisfied that any living specimen will be
so prepared and shipped as to minimise the risk of injury, damage to health or cruel
treatment’

‘That any living specimen will be so handled as to minimise the risk of injury, damage to
health or cruel treatment’

‘a proposed recipient of a living specimen is suitably equipped to house and care for it’

The study was researched during the period 1977—1983 from records of the City of
London, Animal Quarantine Station and RSPCA Airport Hostel, London Heathrow
Airport, during which time over 11/2 million specimens passed through these facilities. In
1982, 96 per cent of all UK exotic bird imports were monitored in detail. In 1983 the authors
visited several wildlife importing and exporting countries in Africa, S.E. Asia and the USA,
where over 60 individuals connected with all aspects of the trade were interviewed. During
the period 1977—1982, two of the authors were employed in an official capacity at the Animal
Quarantine Station with responsibility over all aspects of welfare and UK import controls
involved in the trade and transportation of animals by air.

The authors note that questions they address have been the subject of attention for
many individuals and committees dating from 1927, when the Zoological Society of London
appointed a Transport of Animals Committee to study ‘the extremely unsuitable conditions’
of the trade in living animals.

This study shows that extremely unsuitable conditions still exist and also seeks to
accurately define the conditions in which specimens are transported, 13 years after supposed
implementation of regulations by the airlines to improve these conditions. Problem areas
involving the daily enforcement of the IATA Live Animal Regulations and CITES
requirements have been focused upon, and recommendations for improvements are
suggested.

The trade is seen from the point of view of capture, preparation and shipment to
eventual purchase and quarantine in the consumer countries. When viewed from this
perspective, an enormous tragedy comes to light: wholesale wastage of wildlife in quantitites
hitherto unrealised.

 




 

 

The Catching and Preparation of Live Specimens for Transport

The major proportions of mortalities occur in catching and preparation for shipment, and in quarantine or
holding following transport by air. While airlines are responSible for accepting sub-standard shipmentsoin
violation of IATA Live Animal Regulations and CITES Guidelines, the eVidence indicates that in practice
their personnel rely on traders acting in good faith. The facts regarding ante and post transportation
mortality confirm the main responsibilities lie with the exporters and importers, despite trader andtrader
association criticisms of IATA Live Animal Regulations, and the blaming of airlines for mortalities.

Conditions in which wild specimens are kept prior to export or sale vary. considerably between
different traders and also from country to country. At virtually all premises Visited by the authors,
conditions were unsatisfactory in terms of preparation for shipment. _ . .

Very few, if any, wildlife traders organise their own catching expeditions,.but for economic
reasons rely on local trappers. These local trappers, often farmers, lack the expertise, knowledge or
facilities to care for the specimens adequately. Many specimens die or are injured during the operation of
capture. The specimens may then be held for long periods awaiting collection by the exporter’s
representative, or may be transported under inhumane or over—crowded conditions to central collecting
points. From there, they are often transported long distances to the exporter’s premises. The condition of
the specimens is very poor on arrival and mortality up to this point can be as high as 50% or more.

Depending on the exporter, the specimens may be shipped almost immediately or kept for a
conditioning or acclimatisation period. Birds are often kept in reception avaries where those in relatively
sound condition with reasonable plumage are gradually transferred to holding cages. Those birds that are
dying, weak or mutilated are left to either die or recover. Veterinary attention is normally out of the
question particularly in the case of common species such as small finches, so popular in the pet trade. At
one premises visited by the authors, over 20,000 birds were seen of which at least 20% had no chance of
survival. At another, species were seen mixed together in overcrowded conditions, in cages that had not
been cleaned for days, causing considerable fighting and mortality.

Primates suffer a similar fate at the hands of exporters. One primate exporter stated that he
shipped the primates within 24—48 hours of receiving them from the trapper. This removed the need for
the exporter to care for them and reduced risks of illness and disease occurring on his premises which
might delay export. It was preferable to have such problems occur at the destinations where veterinary
attention could be provided in quarantine. The shipment of essentially unexamined primates which may,
or may not, be suffering from illness or disease clearly is risky, both for them, other animals and to
humans handling them during transit and on arrival in quarantine. Mortality amongst primates
undergoing 90-day quarantine in the USA has been as much as 50%. or more. An Indonesian primate
trader once stated that 60-70% of the macaques trapped in Indonesia died prior to shipment.

Those specimens lucky enough to survive to the point of shipment, then face long journeys by
air, mostly under sub-standard conditions. In the case of birds, UK and USA statistics show that between
3.8—4.2% of the total birds shipped die during transport and many more arrive in poor condition. On
arrival at their destinations, the suffering of the specimens continues when they are often confined in
overcrowded and unhygienic conditions where the stresses of their recent past takes their toll.

11 many occasions shipments are refused entry due to health or documentation problems and
are either destroyed or are forced to face the stresses of further transport. Deaths in quarantine, including
destruction, in the UK and USA accounts for 20% or more mortality in birds and up to 50% in primates.

. Eventually the specimens arrive at laboratories, zoos and into households as pets where the
short lifespan of many species and the demand for replacements causes the trade to continue.

Mortality Caused by the Trade: Examples

Standards of crating and holding prior to shipment and the mortality caused, varies from country to
country. This study has shown that most countries have a poor record in this respect and among them are

Senegal, Tanzania and Ethiopia which are used here to illustrate the degree of mortality that is inflicted on
Wild speCimens.

. Senegal is among the. largest existing exporters of wild birds supplying a substantial proportion
of the international market With small seed—eating bird species, so popular as pets. Annual exports

averaged 1,204,000 birds during the period 1977—1981. Senegal exported birds to over 20 countries in
1981 of which the USA and France were the largest importers.

Shipments imported into the UK regularly arrived in poor condition due to a combination of
overcrowding, lack of adequate food and water and the shipment of species unable to withstand

transport. Birds were often trampled with numbers blinded by pecking. Some had drowned in water pOtS,
eVidently at or near the time they began their jou

seed husks usually remained, indicating food, lik

rneys, since all pots were usually dry on arrival. Only
e water, had been consumed early in the journey.

 

 

 

 




 

Part of a shipment of 2,000 lovebirds from Tanzania.
The lovebirds were packed 80—90 per crate with
inadequate ventilation and water facilities. 400 (20 per

cent) were dead on arrival at London Heathrow Airport.

(1982) A

Part of a shipment of 20 Flamingoes from. Tanzania of
which three arrived dead at London Heathrow Airport.
The remainder were found to be suffering from multiple
wounds to wings and legs caused by tight, non-elastic

strapping. (1982) Y

 

 




Of 83,420 birds imported into the UK in 1982 from Senegal, 3,219 (3.9%) died during transit
by air with additional losses in quarantine. Taking UK mortahtyfigures during transport by an as a
sample average, over 45,000 birds are likely to have died 1n tran31t from Senegal dur1ng 1981. A safe
conservative estimate of post travel mortalities is 200,000 or 20% of the stated total exports 1f UK and
USA quarantine and transit mortalities are considered as average. . .

Taking capture, post-capture, travel and holding for export mortal1t1es as stated to Bruggers
(Exportation of Cage Birds from Senegal, IUCN Traffic Bullet1n, Vol.IV, No.2, July 1982), 1n
conjunction with the mortality findings discussed in this report, the resultant wastage by mortallty 18 as
follows:

During Capture: 40% — 50%
Post-capture Transport: 2% — 3%
Awaiting Sale and Shipment: 12% — 16%
In Air Transport: 3. 8% — 3. 8%
Post-Transit (UK): 16% — 16%
Mortality Range 73. 8% — 88. 8%

Tanzania was found by this study to have one of the worst records for standards of shipment.
Tanzania mainly exports lovebirds and small seed-eating bird species which regularly arrived in the UK in
appallingly overcrowded conditions in small sub—standard crates. Up to 90 lovebirds were often seen in
crates which hardly allowed the birds room to move and reach inadequate supplies of water. In transit
mortalities of 20% were seen on more than one occasion. In an incident involving flamingoes, the birds
arrived with their legs and wings strapped tightly in non—elastic cloth causing swollen joints, bleeding
wounds and some deaths.

In 1982, UK live wild bird imports from Tanzania numbered 13,682 of which 729 (5.4%) were
dead on arrival. Of 10,521 birds transhipped through London Heathrow Airport for other countries, 874
(8.3%) were dead on arrival at Heathrow. If these mortality figures are related with those of Senegal, it is
probable losses during capture, internal transport and holding prior to export are as high or higher. The
overall wastage by mortality may be in the order of 80—90%.

Considerable problems were experienced at London Heathrow Airport with primate
shipments from Ethiopia. Ethiopia exports baboons and vervet monkeys to many countries. The baboons
were packed individually or in pairs in partitioned crates which were often too small, had no food or
water facilities and were constructed of sub—standard wood. This often resulted in the baboons escaping
into the holds of the aircraft. Vervets were usually shipped individually in partitioned crates with no food
or water facilities. They were often in poor condition with wounds, diarrhoea and bronchial infections
with coughing and sneezing. Baboons were often found literally wedged into their compartments unable
to sit upright and on occasions a baboon would be found sitting on the dead body of its companion.

Although at London Heathrow airport the mortality rate during transit was found to be low,
the incidence of suffering was great. Many pregnant females gave birth to still—born young or aborted
during transit. There is evidence that sub-standard conditions of preparation and shipment for Ethiopian
primates causes high post-transit mortalities. US import and quarantine statistics show that between
January 1978 and September 1979, of 970 vervet monkey imports from Ethiopia, 269 (27.7%) arrived
dead with a further 209 (21.5%) mortalities occurring within the first 90 days: a total mortality wastage of
49.2%. Among baboons the mortality was 12.9% of the total imports.

. The common factors to the foregoing cases and those shown in the photographs of the
followmg pages are:

1 the evident sole concern of the traders with reducing container sizes to economise on freight charges
.. and manifest unconcern for the living specimens;

11) the acceptance by airlines of improperly crated live specimens despite complete unsuitability of
crates, apparent even to persons unfamiliar with animals or crating;

111) neglect to use IATA Live Animals regulations as the standard;

iv) inefficiency of enforcement agency inspections at points of export.

 

 

 

 




. ‘_ .. us *
-': sﬁkﬁ$ “ms § 533%? . i
' ”My” ' -

S”?

The crate on the left is typical of those seen from
Ethiopian primate shippers. Each compartment contained
two large young hahoons (see helow) which were hardly
ahle to move. No food or water was provided. For
onward carriage new crates (right) were provided by the
airline. One hahoon was packed in each compartment
which were of minimum size as required by IA TA.

Many pregnant females give hirth or ahort during the
stress of transport.

 

 

 

 




 

1 0

Some Incidents of Injury, Damage to Health and (Mel Treatment seen at
London Heathrow Airport, 1978-1982

Ten Canadian river otters in unsuitable crates.
Only two river otters out of ten shipped survived the journey in these crates due to inadequate ventilation.
Blood and evidence of struggle were obvious in all compartments.
Air Canada, an IA TA Member airline, was fined £1,200 plus £75 costs forusage of improper crates and causing
unnecessary suffering.
Both Canada, the exporting country and the United Kingdom, the importing country, are CITES Party States.

 

 

 

 

   




 

11

 

         

33;. W- , .4; . W x, tags: .3.
Ten bowler monkeys and twenty Capucbin monkeys in unsuitable containers.
The monkeys were shipped in two crates from Paraguay to London, via Lima and Paris. It was estimated that
the monkeys had been in the crates for at least 84 hours without attention. The monkeys were saturated in urine and
faeces. The ten howler monkeys all appeared dead on arrival, having been wedged in the 8"- (20 cm) high crate on
their sides and hardly able to move. Two capuchins were dead on arrival and all ten howler monkeys died in
quarantine.
‘ Air France, an IATA memher airline, was fined £1,700 for usage of improper crates and causing unnecessary

suffering. Both Paraguay and the UK are CITES Party States.

19 armadillos in unsuitable crates
The armadillos were shipped from Miami to London in badly constructed thin plywood crates. Three of the

armadillos were loose in the aircraft hold. Four larger specimens were dead on arrival with their heads wedged in the

corners of their compartments.
National Airlines, an IA TA M emher airline, ceased operation before the case could he heard. Both the USA and

UK are CITES Party States.

 

 

 

 




 

29 squirrel monkeys With tails tied together. around and over each other had resulted in the tangled Iheria Airlines, an IATA Memher airline
The squirrel monkeys were shipped from Bolivia to I tails. The monkeys were anaesthetised and it took a fined £400 for causing unnecessary suffering.
japan via Lima, Madrid and London. In the crate, 15 veterinary surgeon 20 minutes to disentangle the knot. Neither Bolivia nor japan were CITES Party

, was

monkeys were huddled in a group with their tails plaited Three monkeys at the bottom of the pile were dead and a States
together in a large knot. Their constant movement further three monkeys died soon after arrival.

 

 

 




 

13

1,000 Garter Snakes in Unsuitable Crates
Two crates containing 1,000 Garter snakes were shipped from Miami to London. Of 800 snakes packed in
one crate in four cloth bags, only two arrived alive. Of 200 snakes in the second crate, only 76 survived.
Most of the snakes had been suffocated and crushed by the weight of the topmost snakes. Many of the
dead were flattened to paper thinness. All 78 survivors died within days of arrival.

National Airline, an IATA Member airline, was fined £10,000, reduced to £2,500 on appeal for
usage of improper crates and causing unnecessary suffering. Both the USA and UK are CITES Party
States.

5,000 Frogs in Unsuitable Containers

The frogs were shipped in 25 crates from Yugoslavia to London. The frogs were in wooden slatted crates,

a type used for fruit and vegetables, and were packed in nylon bags. The frogs were piled on top of each

other and many legs were protruding out of the crates. There were many mortalities and injuries.
Jugoslovenski Aerotransport (JAT), an IATA Member airline, was fined £500 plus £75 costs

for usage of improper crates and causing unnecessary suffering.

Yugoslavia is not a CITES Party State.

 

US terrapins shipped 200 per container in cheap cardboard boxes. On at least one occasion the boxes were crushed,
causing heavy mortality.

 

 

 




 

14
Mortality During Quarantine and Holding Following Transport

Mortalities during quarantine and holding are as significant in the international trade in live specimens as
catching and transport factors. There is some similarity between the patterns of bird and primate
mortalities in quarantine. The rates vary between traders, but poor standardsof preparationand shipment
result in high mortality in the post-transit period. The followmg table illustrates the in—transit and
quarantine mortalities of birds imported into the UK and USA:

UK Bird Imports US Bird Imports Average

 

1980—1982 1976-1983
Total Birds Imported: 712,398 4, 786,621
In-Transit Deaths: 26,929 200,281
Percentage: 3. 8% 4. 2% 4. 1%
Died During Quarantine: 77,003 817,445
Percentage: 11.2% 17. 8% 16. 9%

 

Figures published in Traffic (USA), Vol.3, 1981 show that of 42,464 primates of over 12 species imported
into the USA between January 1978 and September 1979 from 13 countries, 1,743 (4.1%) were dead on
arrival and 4,754 (11.7%) of the survivors died during quarantine.

Statistics show that the majority of deaths occur in the first few weeks following arrival. The
causes for the mortality reflect the consequences of prolonged stress due to transport—with the resultant
severe debility, liability to sickness and the incapacity to recover and adapt—and the poor standards of
preparation and shipment. Many deaths may be attributed to sub—standard quarantine conditions.

There have been examples in the UK of high mortality in quarantine caused by inadequate
conditions and management. One such example involved a consignment of 201 birds of 12 species
including mynah birds, cockatoos, lorikeets, white-eyes, fruitsuckers and thrushes. The birds had only
suffered 3 deaths during transit and were crated in reasonably good conditions. During quarantine the
consignment suffered 95 deaths. Birds began to die soon after arrival in quarantine and the veterinary
surgeon supervising the premises was consulted. Autopsy showed that many had died of starvation, later
found to be due to wrong feeding. The losses in this case were due largely to the ignorance of the
proprietor of the premises and the veterinary surgeon, lacking requisite knowledge, being unable to
rectify the situation. This is not an isolated case.

Small specialised importers may be able to provide adequate facilities to house specimens
adequately and even give individual attention, but large commercial importers, who may import many
thousands of birds at one time find it uneconomical or even impractical to provide adequate facilities.
Therefore, birds are often kept in sub-standard conditions which may lead to high mortality. Similar
conditions also occur in the USA and elsewhere.

In the UK, and elsewhere, there is no requirement for prospective importers of live specimens
to provide evidence of their knowledge, experience and competence in caring properly for captive live
fauna. Authorities also appear not to insist on suitable welfare conditions in quarantine or be able to

prowde veterinary inspectors with the specialised knowledge or experience to supervise quarantine
premises.

Observations on Some Causes of Mortality in Relation to Preparation and Shipment

yumerous factprs govern mortality rates among living specimens in international trade. The following
mortality tree illustrates the major causes:

 

Poor Crating Poor Health, Lack of Delays in Poor
Disease, Food 8C Water Transit Stowage in
Immaturity Aircraft
l | l l J
Overcrowding, Dehydration, Dirt, Varying
Injury Starvation Suffocation Temperature
Extremes

L I | l
I
High Mortality

 




 

 

15

Five main problem areas are identifiable:

i) Shipment of wild specimens unadapted to captivity, unprepared for transport and so highly
vulnerable to stress and mortality;

ii) shipment of immature specimens;

iii) capture and holding induces stress or shock resulting in poor health or disease susceptibility among
specimens making them unfit for travel;

iv) poor crating; mixing of species; overcrowding; lack of food and water;

v) poor stowage in aircraft holds and cargo sheds; delays; accidents.

The authors’ experience and observations in this study indicate responsibility for problems (i) to (iv) lies

with traders and items under (v) concern airlines.

Wild Specimens Unadapted to Caph'vity
Comparison between wild caught and captive bred birds shipped by air highlights the unsuitability of
shipping specimens unacclimatised to captivity and therefore, unprepared for shipment.

Most, if not all, birds exported from Taiwan and Czechoslovakia are captive bred and include
cockatiels, lovebirds and white java sparrows. Shipments from these countries, imported to the UK, were
found to suffer only 0.5% mortality during transit compared with 3.9% of wild caught birds from
Senegal and 5.4% from Tanzania.

Shipments from Taiwan and Czechoslovakia were not adequately crated in terms of IATA Live
Animals Regulations, but the birds, considering the long flights from Taiwan, withstood the conditions
well as the mortality figures attest. These birds appeared used to being caged, able to tolerate crowding
and human proximity. They were less stressed in the crates during travel. None were suffering the post
capture and transit stress readily observable in the behaviour and condition of wild caught specimens
unadapted to captivity.

More detailed statistics and observations can be found in the main study.

Shipment of Immature Specimens
Usually it is parrots, macaws and mynah birds which are shipped as ‘gapers’ i.e. birds requiring hand-
feeding. The younger the birds, the more easy, according to traders, it is to hand-tame them and secure a
higher price. If no delays occur during transit, shippers usually escape with low mortality. Clearly,
however, this trade does not “minimise risk of injury, damage to health or cruel treatment”. And no
rational person may expect airline personnel to hand-feed substantial numbers of unfledged birds in the
event of delays: which for many reasons are common.

A shipment of 384 Amazon parrots, too young to identify accurately, and dependent on hand-
feeding, were delayed in transit at Heathrow Airport destined for the USA. Over 150 (39%) died by the
time they reached Chicago.

Species Vulnerable to Mortality During Transport and Holding

Certain families of birds, and some species of families, travel badly follOwing capture and crating. The
mortality rates of such species are sufficiently high as to suggest they are constitutionally incapable of
being prepared and shipped so as to minimise the risk of injury, damage to health or cruel treatment. The
question is complicated by poor crating standards and inadequate care. Some species may have a higher
survival rate if suitably prepared and shipped, whereas others seem likely to suffer and eventually die no
matter how carefully treated. The condition in which specimens arrive clearly influences their survival
rates in quarantine.

The authors have compiled a list of the species, found by the study, to regularly suffer high
mortality during transport and quarantine. The list includes many of the popular seed-eating species
imported as pets, such as the fire—finch, cordon-bleu and green singing finch.

The continued shipment of species with known poor survival rates is among the major
problems of shipping birds by air. Discrimination with respect to species in need of particular attention is
essential. If this is impractical in present conditions consideration needs to be given to preventing trade in
species most vulnerable to trade-induced mortality. By such means overall mortality rates of birds
transported by air may be notably reduced.

The Effects of Stress, Debility and Disease on Mortalities
Major stresses are caused by the capture, confinement and transport of wild specimens in international
trade. These cumulative stresses cause debility and increased susceptibility to diseases which may manifest
themselves only during air transport or at post transit holding facilities. The general conditions of
international trade significantly increase the opportunities for the development and spread of animal
diseases and zoonoses.

Specimens may, after capture, pass through the hands of a number of middlemen before
reaching the exporters. In this period they are commonly kept in unhygienic, overcrowded conditions,

 




 

16

sustained with food by persons whose priorities are with commerce rather than with proper preparation
for shipment. The case is similar with most exporters: which means rigorous conditlons continue durlng
shipment to foreign countries. . . _

The shipment of debilitated and/or diseased spec1mens lS common.lExper1ence at Heathrow
Airport suggests that health certificates are usually meaningless in respect of speCImens sufferlng from a
range of injurious diseases to which the stresses of capture and holding have made them vulnerable. .Such
diseases often may be dormant and prior to shipment it may be difficult, if not ltnpOSSlble,.f01: veterinary
surgeons to perceive or diagnose sickness by visual examination. Many countries lack facrllties to make
thorough tests possible.

Overcrowding

Wild specimens are unadapted to confinement, human proximity and handling, .and many are non-
gregarious species. The stress factor among wild species of birds and anlmals 1n transport-renders
comparisons with domestic species and humans inadmissible. From experience at Heathrow Airport it
may be stated categorically that overcrowding is a major problem.

Overcrowding affects:

i) the amount of food and water available for each specimen;

ii) the air and perching space available and the associated build-up of body heat within the crates;
iii) the degree of stress imposed on the specimens;

iv) air pollution due to droppings.

Overcrowding varies from country to country and from shipper to shipper within the same country.
Thailand, Tanzania and Senegal have poor records in this respect. Taiwan also has a poor record, although
as mentioned earlier the mainly captive bred birds appear to withstand the conditions much better unless
ventilation is restricted during loading in aircraft holds when heavy mortality has occurred.

It is relevant to compare sample shipments of birds from two Senegal dealers which arrived at
Heathrow Airport within 24 hours of each other.

 

Table 1: Sample Shipments of Birds from Two Senegal Dealers to Illustrate Effects of Overcrowding

 

: Shipment A Shipment B
No. of crates: 25 30
No. of Birds: 4,850 3,780
Av. Birds per Crate: 194 126
Size of Crates: 24in.L x 18in. x 8in.H 23in.L x 19in. x 8in.H
600mm X 450mm X 200mm 575mm x 475mm x 200mm
No. of Water Pots/ Crates: 4 4
No. of Perches: 5 5
Shipment A Shipment B
Species: No. DOA* %o No. DOA” o/o
Silverbill: 450 32 7.1 190 — —
Green Singing Finch: 400 93 23.2 750 14 1.8
Cordon Bleu: 600 90 15.0 375 5 1.3
Cuthroat: 600 19 3.1 450 3 0.6
Red-ear Waxbill: 800 20 2. 5 375 7 1.8
Orange-cheek Waxbill 800 6 0.7 920 6 0. 6
Golden-breast Waxbill: 600 229 4. 8 150 1 0. 6
Lavender Finch: 200 11 5. 5 100 —— ——
Fire-Finch 400 263 65 . 7 —- — —-
Golden Song Sparrow 70 3 4.2
Aurora Finch: 200 7 3.5
Bronze-wing Mannikin: __ __ 200 — —
"'Dead on Arrival 4,850 563 11.6 (av.) 3,780 46 1.2 (av.)

The birds in Shipment A were excessively overcrowded; many birds had drowned in water pots.
Although other factors may have influenced the mortality in Shipment A there was no evidence of this.

,Higher mortality was always experienced in overcrowded crates.

 

 

 

 




 

 

Only two birds survived in this crate due to poor storage in the aircraft bold, causing the birds to suffocate.

Birds. newly arrived crowd about empty pots for water.

 

 

 

 




 

 

18

A similar comparison between squirrel monkey shipments arriving at Heathrow Airport, London in 1979
from Bolivia and Guyana also shows the effect of overcrowding and delay.

 

 

 

 

Table 2:

Country of Origin: BOLIVIA GUYANA

Routing: Santa Cruz—Lima—Madrid Georgetown-London—Japan
—London—]apan

Estimated Transit Time: 72 hours (to London) 18 hours

Condition of Monkeys: Poor—emaciated—open wounds Generally good

Size of Crate: 39in. x 20in. x 12in. 24in. x 22in. x 28in.
(99cm x 50cm x 30cm) (61cm x 56 cm x 71cm)

Construction: Wooden—no doors—one water tin Wooden—similar to IATA with
wire grilles all four sides—no seclusion resting shelf. Door and water pot,
difficult to care for in transit. but difficult to care for in transit.

Monkeys per Crate: 3O 15

Cubic inches per Monkey: 312 cu.ins. (5059 cu.cms.) 985.6 cu.ins (16,169 cu.cms)

Food: Banana-mostly rotten Banana

Water: Empty Empty

No. Shipped: 935 507

Mortality on arrival at

Heathrow Airport: 71 4

Percentage: 7.6% 0.8%

Poor Crah'ng

The incidence of poor crating is common and causes a great deal of unnecessary suffering and mortality.
Each shipper has his own interpretation as to how crates should be constructed. Local usages over many
years have habituated airlines to accepting them, Regulations notwithstanding. With little worldwide
enforcement of adequate crating standards, the problems continue as the mortality rates show. Experience
suggests that importers rarely question the causes for high mortality, because they can replace lost

spec1mens. by securing credit from exporters. The airlines warn shippers that they can accept no
rCSpOHSlbllty for mortalities 1n transu: commercially airlines are unaffected by them.

Food and Water

Considerable suffering and mortality is caused through lack of water. In particular birds become
dehydrated very quickly and it is routine to see them clustered around empty water pots when they arrive
at Heathrow, even after a short flight.

. Deadvbirds in water pots are a common sight found among consignments arriving at Heathrow
Airport. This is ‘due to overcrowding or lack of sufficient pots. The ratio of birds to water pots is a
neglected feature in most bird crates, and is among the main factors contributing to mortality. In many
primate crates, the restricted space in the crates does not allow for the provision of water or food pots.

Birds confined in a crate generate a substantial amount of heat causing excess thirst and an
abnormal amount of water is taken. As the water levels in the pots fall birds are forced to lean further into
them, or to stand inside them. With increasing thirst they fight frantically for perching space near the
pots, and through this many are trampled or drowned.

In most bird, primate and mammal crates, food is scattered on the floor which results in soiling
of thefoodstuff. Lack of access doors to crates makes feeding during transit difficult and in many cases
imposs1ble unless facilities are available where crates can be opened. It is important that most, if not all,
spec1mens should be fed and watered at every opportunity during transit.

Poor Stowage in Aircraft Holds

Instances of suffering and heavy mortality among animals and birds in international trade have been

pubhcrsed 1n the press over the years, particularly where major suffering and mortalities of 50—100% were

sustained. Such incidents are more the exception than the rule, but when they occur the results are

Eorlmally caused by pOOr stowage in the aircraft holds, delays due to technical faults or a, combination of
o .

k l d Inc1dents of poor stowage may be caused by unsupervised airlines personnel lacking sufficient
now e ge, or understanding of how to stow 11ve animal consignments, to ensure that the animals have

 




Red-masked conures overcrowded in crate from Peru. No water pots or access doors were provided.

 

19

 
 




 

 

 

 

 

20

adequate ventilation, or may occur where aircraft have been delayed at an airport with no facilities to
attend to them. .

Experience has shown at Heathrow Airport, that poor stowage With the resultant high
mortality occurs when airlines attempt to load and ship large conSignments on one flight. This is
particularly the case with consignments destined for the USA which often number 100 crates of birds or
more. One such incident in 1981, involved 8,000 birds contained in 87 crates which suffered 1,200 (19%)
dead on arrival at Heathrow in transit to the USA. Mortalities were caused by a combination of
suffocation, overheating and dehydration due to a massive build-up of heat in the crates when they were
wrongly stacked. The sheer volume of such consignments in some cases makes it impossible for airline
personnel to stow the crates properly. For this, airlines are clearly at fault and a solution may be to restrict
the volume of consignments to what each particular aircraft is able to carry without bad or crowded
stowage.

Accidents

Some mortalities are caused through technical faults which develop in flight. Clearly, these cannot be
anticipated and the incidence is low. One such incident involved the failure of the aircraft hold heating
system. Three crates containing 199 birds suffered a mortality of 101 (50.7 per cent) when the floors of the
crates were covered with ice. Many of the bodies were frozen hard and it was remarkable so many birds
survived. The highest mortalities were suffered by 76 kingfishers of which 65 (85.5 per cent) died. These
were in the crate stowed on the floor. The birds in the crates stacked on top of this crate suffered fewer
mortalities. '

Delays During Transit

Delays during transit at airports with no facilities for the care of living specimens is a long—standing
problem. Few airports around the world have such facilities: those without them generally appear able to
care for domestic dogs, cats and other pets, but are unequipped to handle delayed consignments of live
fauna. Problems occur with most frequency at European airports which handle larger volumes of live
fauna. The immediate attention essential to the survival of specimens is often impractical, since most
crates have no easily accessible or adequate food and water pots.

In March 1981, three crates destined for the UK containing 146 mixed species of birds were
delayed 24 hOurs at Paris airport due to bad weather conditions. The crates were not designed to facilitate
easy watering or feeding. The birds appeared to have received no attention. Of eight cock of the rocks
shipped, six were dead on arrival; of 50 hummingbirds 28 were dead; and of 24 tanagers, four were dead.
The remaining specimens in very poor condition, also sustained mortalities.

In another incident on 7 July 1981, 12,000 assorted waxbills contained in 63 crates destined for
Detroit, USA, were delayed at Paris airport due to an industrial dispute. On arrival at Heathrow airport
almost 1,000 were dead. Post— transport mortalities in both incidents are unknown.

Such incidents highlight both the need for animal holding facilities at airports handling
specimens and the use of crates so designed that watering and feeding can be carried out easily.

Importance of Animal Holding Facilities at Major Airports

There is an important, if not indispensable, need for adequate facilities for handling live fauna in
international trade at air and sea ports if human and animal health and welfare are to be protected from the
consequences of malpractice and/ or errors that commonly occur in this trade. Facilities are essential to the
application of the Convention, and IATA Live Animals Regulations through national legislation and

elrliforcement. Developed states with such facilities could supplement controls in others that cannot afford
t em.

The advantages are in:

(i) ensuring the health and welfare of specimens during export, import and in transit in both
human and animal interests;

(ii) ensuring CITES proViSions and IATA regulations are applied in practice;

(iii) the accurate identification of speCies and numbers of specimens actually in trade to ensure the

paper reality of permits and licences conforms with physical reality in the interests of
endangered speCies legislation;

(iv) accommodating delayed or seized shipments in proper conditions;

(v) prov1ding Customs and other enforcement agencies with the advice and co—operation necessary
for effective enforcement;

(Vi) prov1ding airline personnel with practical specialist assistance where necessary, as well as co-

operative advisory and education services.

 




 

Of 199 birds in this consignment, 101 (50.7 per cent) died
when the cargo hold heating system failed during the

ﬂight. A

 

Removing mortalities from a consignment of birds which
had been poorly stowed and delayed in transit. V

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

22

City of London, Animal Quarantine Station, Heathrow Airport, London

The Animal Quarantine Station at Heathrow airport has shown the value of an animal holding facility at a
major airport in regulating and improving standards of shipment. _ _

The Station was built by the City of London Corporation at a cost of 9/4 million and Opened in
1977. It employs four Management/Animal Health Inspectors, office staff and fourteen Animal
attendants providing a 24-hour daily service for the care of specimens in transit and the enforcement of
legislation on behalf of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food. In 1982, the Station handled
450,000 animals and examined many more elsewhere on the airport.

The Station is divided into two sections: one for imports and transhipments subject to UK
quarantine regulations and a section for exports and species not subject to quarantine. Strict hygiene is
enforced with disinfectant foot baths, protective clothing and special clothing for dealing with diseased
shipments. The Station has facilities for the housing of most species: isolation quarters, a surgery and an
incinerator wherein all waste is burnt. The Station has a large vehicle fully equipped for emergencies such
as animals loose in aircraft holds or on the airport, collections of unsafe containers and for inspections.
Documentation of each shipment arriving at the Station is checked and assistance is given to UK Customs
in checking CITES licences. All shipments are given individual attention, feeding; watering and cleaning
is provided as is the release of specimens where necessary, the removal of the dead or moribund and the
sick or injured requiring veterinary attention. Inspectors prepare evidence for legal action in cases of
maltreatment or licence irregularities.

The Station staff have treated innumerable animals and birds suffering the effects of transport
stress and shock, disease and injuries due to bad crating and poor shipment. Numerous specimens have
been re-crated in conformity with IATA Live Animal Regulations and many legal prosecutions have been
taken against airlines for maltreatment of specimens. This has been made possible by the Transit of
Animals (General) Order 1973 and the presence of Inspectors and staff permanently at the airport.

The UK Transit of Animals (General) Order, 1973

This legislation has proved extremely successful in improving. and maintaining adequate standards of
shipment of live fauna by air at Heathrow Airport, London. The Order requires that crates are suitable
for the species, soundly made, not overcrowded, and that ‘Livestock’ and ‘Upright’ labels are attached. It
specifies protection of the animals from injury or suffering from any cause: that animals must receive
adequate fresh air, and must be fed and watered at appropriate intervals including any waiting periods.
The Order protects all specimens of fauna excluding man.

Under the terms of the Order ‘the person(s) in charge of the animal(s) at the time’ are liable for
any offence and therefore airlines are responsible for compliance while shipments are within UK
jurisdiction. At first there were a significant number of prosecutions. From 1977—84, 51 successful
prosecutions were conducted under the Order for flagrant cases of abuse of living specimens. In many
other cases written or verbal cautions were given and shipments detained pending re-crating or veterinary
attention.

Strict enforcement of this legislation in conjunction with advice given to airlines on particular
problems so as to secure a co—operative working relationship, has resulted in improved standards of

shipment Via Heathrow airport in recent years. It has also resulted in avoidance of Heathrow airport by
some shippers and airlines.

Avoidance of Heathrow Airport, London

The costs of Animal Quarantine Station health and welfare services and the effectiveness of its inspectors
in enforcing the law, has resulted in the diversion of trade routes from Heathrow. It appears that traders
and perhaps some airlines take the view that rather than risk the extra expenses involved, or risk being
compelled to conform with regulations and standards by prosecution, it is preferable to use trade routes
that aVOid Heathrow. Elsewhere, apparently, they experience no similar ‘trouble’. A typical example of
‘trouble’, as defined by traders involved a consignment in transit from Singapore to Brussels which
arrived at Heathrow ‘by mistake’ in September 1982. Three crates containing five emus, six grand electus
parrots, two rhinoceros hornbills, three wrinkled hornbills, four rufous-necked hornbills and one great
pied hornbill were found in severely overcrowded and filthy conditions. The four largest hornbills were
removed from the crates, cleaned and fed and Were detained pending arrival of regulation crates. The
other speCimens were cleaned, fed and watered and redistributed in the original crates. On receiving
them, the Belgian dealer telephoned the Station alleging that the four detained hornbills had been stolen

 

 

 




 

Part of a consignment
which included emus,
grand electus parrots
and bombills, shipped
from Singapore to
Brussels. They were
contained in totally
enclosed crates making
inspection difficult.

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

24

and that he was contacting Interpol. He stated forcefully that his consignments were always routed to
avoid Heathrow due to this sort of ‘trouble’. On receipt of regulation Size crates, the four detained
hornbills were forwarded to Belgium the next day. . . .

In 1983 a Malaysian based primate exporter stated that his UK partners had adV1sed him to Shlp
all USA destined consignments via Tokyo and San Francisco to New York to av01d Heathrow, even
though this involved a longer journey via airports lacking facilities to care for them.

Another example involved shipments of cheetahs from Namibia routed v1a Heathrow to several
destinations. Each shipment arrived in sub-standard crates and with the cheetahs suffering from heat
exhaustion due to inadequate ventilation. The crates were often dangerously unsafe and airline personnel
on one occasion refused to unload them from the aircraft. South African Airways was constantly asked to
supply new crates involving great expense. After four such shipments no morearrived, but a month after
the last shipment there was a report that two cheetahs arrived dead in Brussels in transn from Namibia in
similar crates to those seen at Heathrow.

If standards of crating and shipment are to be improved and maintained worldwide it is
important that all major airports should have facilities to care for live fauna. States should introduce
welfare legislation similar to the UK Transit of Animals Order which should be adequately enforced so
that traders and airlines cannot view any airport as ‘lenient’.

Standards of Inspection at Points of Export and Import

In 1983, the authors visited Senegal, Kenya, India, Thailand, Malaysia, Singapore, Indonesia and the
USA. Investigations showed that the standard of inspection at points of export and import varied from
country to country, but none visited (including the UK) had an adequate procedure for inspection of
CITES and IATA requirements. It was found that:

i) in most cases there were no enforcement or veterinary officers based permanently at airports. Many
officers had to travel large distances to airports, often resulting in shipments being held for long
periods awaiting inspection;

ii) at airports where officers were based, they lacked facilities to examine shipments adequately and
because of the practical difficulties only cursory examinations were made;

iii) officers often worked ‘office hours only’ and shipments could be exported or imported at night or
weekends without examination at the airport;

iv) at most airports only a percentage of the shipments exported were examined;

V) of the airports visited only Changi airport, Singapore and Heathrow airport, London, had animal
facilities operational for the inspection and care of live specimens and in both cases there is no
requirement for all shipments to be examined;

vi) enforcement officers were not well versed in crating and welfare standards and problems existed in
this respect;

vii) few countries had endangered species legislation and were forced to rely on Customs legislation,
often resulting in wildlife officers having no adequate enforcement powers.

The practical and legislative difficulties experienced by enforcement officers at airports in
attempting to enforce CITES requirements is resulting in loopholes. Substitution and smuggling of
endangered species and species protected by national legislation and the continual acceptance of sub-
standard shipments is common. It is essential that all CITES Party States give priority to the

establishment of adequate and efficient inspection services if enforcement of CITES requirements are to
be improved.

The Wildlife Traders

The evidence of the present study on preparation and shipment practices needs consideration in the
context of the nature and character of the trade.

In the absence of an international data system on traders that might prevent their indiscriminate
dismissal as an undesirable group, impartial judgement is difficult. The general reputation of traders in
livmg specimens is poor; close familiarity with trade practices does little to improve it. The UK Pet
Traders Association (PTA) with a minority trader membership, has stated that many traders would not be
acceptable as members; and a representative of the US Pet Industry Joint Advisory Council (PIJAC)
stated that he recognised the need of the industry to ‘improve its image’. The truth of this statement can be
seen in the light of a recent indictment by a federal grand jury in the USA, that an organised crime figure
was smuggling hundreds of exotic birds and reptiles into the USA; an operation that would not occur

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

25

unless the smuggler had outlets in the US or elsewhere, lacking in commercial integrity.

. The present numbers of wildlife importers and exporters is uncertain. The ‘guesstimate’ of
Domalain, a former trader (1977) was that the numbers of exporters supplying the world market was
probably somewhat over 500. A number of traders have attempted to improve their ‘image’ by operating
as pseudo zoological institutions or parks, purportedly concerned with ‘saving’ endangered species. As
noted by Uruguay at the fourth meeting of CITES Parties (1983) it is difficult for exporting states to
discriminate between bona fide and pseudo institutions when deciding to issue licences.

The primary concerns of trader associations are with the protection and development of their
commercial interests. This is legitimate provided that there is, with the protection of such rights, a sense
of obligation to the environment and of duty to the rest of society. However, to trade in wildlife it
appears necessary to have more business talent than professional competence.

Unlike official and non-governmental conservation and welfare organisations, traders have
taken no active measures to initiate or promote conservation and health and welfare objectives. The
function of traders is, simply to trade. At the fourth meeting of CITES parties (1983), Interpol stated that
sixteen countries reported a large number of cases of illegal trade during the period 1979—81. In 1971,
massive lucrative illegal trading in reptiles was uncovered in the US, in which 27 persons were arrested
and at least 160 others, including zoo employees and wildlife traders, were involved. The case revealed
smuggling from Australia, Central and South America into the US, with re—exports being sold to Japan,
Denmark, West Germany, Netherlands and the UK; all parties to CITES. In 1984, following three years’
investigations in the US, a worldwide multi-million-dollar illegal market in birds of prey was uncovered.
Many of those arrested were prominent leaders of national and state falconry associations. Half of the
specimens captured died during handling and trade.

In recognising the successes of US enforcement agents it would be naive to suppose dealers and
traders in Europe and Japan are any more reputable than those in the US. Indeed, in the above cited cases
European and Japanese traders were involved in illicit trade with their US counterparts. The revulsion at
the unethical conduct of many traders has inspired suggestions that the trade in living specimens Should be
banned. Although the prospects for officially initiated action to end the commercial trade in wildlife
consumer states are not encouraging, New York State has set a notable precedent by instituting a ban on
the importation of wild birds from September 1985. Recognising the difficulties of banning the trade on
an international basis, the authors have considerd regulation rather than prohibition; but regulation
carefully designed to further the essential needs of law enforcement officials working in the field. With
regard to preparation and shipment standards and practices, effective application of CITES principles is
not possible until traders are identified by registration.

Diseases and Health Risks

Consignments of imported birds and animals, in particular wild specimens recently caught, pose risks to
humans and other animals in contact with them during transit. They are potentially serious sources of
disease to the livestock of the importing countries; the value of commercial trade in wild specimens and
the costs of controlling it need evaluation from this perspective. ‘

Great caution is necessary in examining imported live specimens since the validity of health
certificates is often suspect. Allegedly, some health certificates are forged; and cursory examination in
some countries of export may result in consignments certified as fit but which on arrival as imports, have
to be seized for health reasons. The major stresses inevitable with transport are a factor in rendering
specimens more susceptible to disease.

Some diseased specimens may be re-exported: both the UK and USA allow traders to re—export
consignments of diseased specimens that are refused entry for health reasons. In light of animal and
human interests and CITES requirements which specify animals shall be transported in a humane manner,
this Option to re-export should be reviewed by health and conservation authorities. It is not responsible or
humane for any state to permit diseased specimens refused entry to their own country to be re-exported
and remain in trade.

Of 3,199,094 US bird imports during 1976—81, 176,519 (5.5 per cent) were denied entry due to
disease and were re-exported elsewhere or back to the country of origin (US Dept. of Agriculture). Since
stress compounds the effects of disease, it is likely a large proportion of these birds failed to survive the
return journey, during which they may have infected other consignments if mixed with them in airline
cargo sheds. While the traders’ option in the US,is allowed in the UK, diseased birds found in the UK
have been destroyed in quarantine.

A recent, November 1982, incident illustrates the unwise use of the re—export option, as well as
the time and expense incurred by authorities through traders being allowed to exercise it for commercial
reasons. A consignment of 335 yellow naped Amazon parrots and 12 scarlet macaws were shipped,

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

26

apparently by sea, from El Salvador to Mexico, and thereafter to Seattle, USA. The certificate with the
birds stated they were transported in a humane manner, and were disease—free. In US quarantine the
shipment was found to be infected with Newcastle’s disease. The importer exerc1sed the option to re-
export the shipment to a buyer in West Germany, to where they were sent Via London, Heathrow. There,
airlines cargo handlers noted the appallingly bad crates, and saw that many birds looked Sick. They
reported this to the Animal Quarantine Station. Inspection at the AQS showed the birds were grossly
overcrowded in two-tier crates, and that two very young macaws had beaks so badly deformed they could
not feed properly. The airway bill provided no clue to the bird’s recent history, although it was plain they
were diseased. MAFF officials were called, the birds were released into cages and cared for. Documents
received subsequently revealed their history of diseaSe and re-export. After discussions, the West German
authorities agreed to permit entry. In giving traders the option to agree to destruction or to arrange for the
re—export of sick animals, both the UK and US are placing IATA member airlines in the position of either
refusing to carry or violating IATA-LAR. In such cases officials are constrained to act within the terms of
law and- regulations that render them unable to act in terms of CITES.

Some diseases carried by birds and animals are transmissible to humans; therefore, persons in
close contact with specimens during transit, quarantine, or even after sale, may be at risk. One such
disease risk to humans from the trade in wild birds is from Psitticosis (Ornithosis). This disease is caused
by Chlamydia Psittaci, an intracellular parasite. The disease is mainly found in psitticines; some strains
less infectious to humans may be found among passerines and pigeons. Humans become infected by
inhaling contaminated airborne material through handling dead birds, or by being in close contact with
infected specimens or cages or material contaminated with excreta or nasal discharges. Clearly, airline
personnel and transport workers may be subject to high risk in aircraft cargo holds, cargo sheds or
vehicles where the caged birds may flutter about and spread dust.

In 1980 a shipment of Amazon parrots from South America with suspected psitticosis resulted
in the hospitalisation of the airlines personnel and AQS staff that handled them.

In 1978, two men in Leicester, UK, died, following infection from an apparently healthy
cockatiel imported from Belgium; and after it had apparently completed normal quarantine in the UK.
Some of the many other disease risks from newly imported animals and birds are:

Salmonellosis — occurs as the result of infection with a range of organisms of the Salmonella

group affecting humans, mammals, birds and reptiles.

Fungal Infections — among the more common is Aspergillosis (Pneumomycosis), a disease

affecting animals.

Coliform Infections —— to varying degrees, most birds suffer from Escherichia coli, a bacterium

affecting the gastro-intestinal tract and the respiratory system.

Newcastle Disease (Fowl Pest) —— an acute febrile and infectious viral disease from which

import restrictions are designed to protect the UK, USA and other countries.

Rabies — fatal, infectious viral disease against which UK (and other countries) quarantine laws

are designed to protect. Occurs in animals and man.

Hepatitis — occurs in animals and man. Caused by two or more viruses. Transmissable by

contact with infected excreta.

Leptospirosis —— spirochaete infection from contact with infected urine. Occurs in man and

animal.

Tetanus —— from toxin of Clostridium tetani, through a skin wound. Occurs in animal and
man.

Tuberculoses — from the microbacterium tuberculoses. Inhaled in aerosol form when

handling infected animals — notably primates. Occurs in animals and man, different strains
being transm1ssable.

The IATA Live Animals Regulations Manual (IATA-LAR)

The IATA—LAR Manual is a valuable source of reference for whose development the Live Animals Board
merits commendation. The present authors emphasise that, notwithstanding their criticisms, they
consider it a valuable work.

Published for thirteen years, the IATA—LAR Manual is now (1984) in its 11th edition. The
number of IATA member airlines adhering to the Regulations is 123. Another 90 Participating Airline
Carriers have agreed to ‘accept animals for transportation in accordance with the terms of these
Regulations’. The importance of the Manual lies in its practical use, and the degree to which its terms
and conditions are applied in practice. Equally, this applies also to the Articles of the Convention of
International Trade in Endangered Species (CITES) which specify: ‘. . . any living specimen will be so
prepared and shipped as to minimise the risk to injury, damage to health and cruel treatment’. Years

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

Some of 335 Amazon parrots refused entry to the US
while suffering from Newcastles Disease and re-exported
to West Germany. The parrots were shipped in extremely

overcrowded, two-tiered crates

adequate food. A

without water or

 

Example of a well designed crate with removable food
and water trough drawers (with wooden ﬂoats to prevent
drowning). Very few crates of this standard are seen. This
is from an Indian shipper. V

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

28

of experience suggest IATA-LAR ‘minimum standards’ are achieved more as the exception than the
rule. Most live wild fauna consignments are carried in substandard conditions by IATA-LAR and CITES
criteria.

The 11th edition of IATA-LAR is now a fairly substantial reference work of 250 pages, a
notable increase on earlier editions. It is a somewhat encyclopedic work on the transport of animals by
air. Constructively, it emphasises attention to conservation and welfare requirements. In terms of daily
practice, however it tends to remain on shelves gathering dust. Valuable as a reference, then, the question
arises whether IATA—LAR in their present form are achieving their practical purpose of ‘ensuring the
welfare of animals’.

The IATA—LAR are intended to guide airline employees, but the authors understand the views
of airlines who describe the Manual as ‘too long, too complicated and too technical for practical use’.

Particular points worth raising are:

i) there is considerable repetition throughout the Manual which often has the effect of confusing rather
than clarifying points;

ii) specifications have always been open to varying interpretation which has prevented standardisation;

iii) it appears questionable if the precise designs illustrated have been tested in ordinary working
conditions and if the practicability for the trade to construct them has been tested.

The potentially valuable Manual is too little used in practice. It is necessary therefore to devise
means of encouraging its use. This may be achieved by changing the format so that:

i). it is more simple and explicit;

ii) it is more freely available to shippers, agents and others concerned with the trade;

iii) crate designs, at least for specimens most frequently shipped, are available in cheaply produced
leaflet form to facilitate compliance.

CITES Guidelines for transport of Live Wild Animals and Plants

This booklet of 109 pages, published in 1980, contains general information on the preparation and
shipment of living specimens carried by all forms of transport. A commendable feature is that the
Guidelines apply to all animals, not just those presently listed under the Convention. Broadly based on
the IATA Live Animal Regulations, the booklet offers ‘guidelines only’ in a form adaptable to local

legislative requirements. The Guidelines are of little use in practical terms of the trade by air. IATA-LAR
are more appropriate because thev are more snecific, desnite this, even these are too little used. The care

 

 

 

 

 

I O I I I O r O I O 0
of animals in transport by air 18 a rather spec1al field, far different from that of handling animals not in
transport. With due respect to the consultants involved, it appears that few had first—hand daily
experience With practical problems of animals in transport by air. However, the Guidelines may have

served a useful purpose in directing the attention of the Conference of the Parties to the major problems
encounerein epreparaion ans1p -' o v’; r . - 0' - c- C :1v

qualified endorsement to IATA—LAR was more practical, notwithstanding that airlines priorities need
reconciling with those of CITES. Instead of general guidelines, the need was, and is, for the provision of
information in simple, specific form, with clearly explicit crate designs and directions, directed to the

use of persons actually handling consignments, as well as for enforcement authorities.

 

Some Problems Concerning Practical Application of CITES Requirements.
Disposal of Seized Living Specimens

A major difficulty in the UK, as elsewhere, is the disposal of detained or seized living specimens. Some
seized shipments may involve substantial numbers of specimens, particularly birds and reptiles. To find
suitable accommodation is not simple. In countries such as the UK and USA, quarantine regulations
complicate the issue. Zoos are often asked to hold or quarantine seized shipments and this may lead to
animals being, through necessity, held in less than suitable conditions resulting in higher mortality rates.
Incidents have occurred which make seizure or ‘saving’ of such specimens farcical for enforcement
officers. There is also the matter of subsequent disposal on completion of quarantine and legal action.
This has resulted in zoos and others having unwanted specimens which sometimes return into the trade.

Repatriation of Specimens

Experience at Heathrow airport has. shown there can be practical difficulties in repatriating specimens to

their country of origin. The main problems are as follows:

i) so far, no international agreements have laid down practical procedures for repatriating specimens;
arrangements need time during which the animals need accommodation and care;

ii) the question as to who pays for this accommodation and care, the possible need for fresh crates and
veterinary attention, as well as the return flight costs, is unresolved. The difficulties of establishing

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 




 

 

 

intention on the part of the importers when shipments are seized poses further difficulties on fixing
legal liabilities for such costs;

iii) to whom are specimens to be returned? Release back into the wild may not always be possible or
advisable;

iv) many specimens are unfit after a single journey, let alone two. The stresses involved in the carriage of
wild specimens appears insufficiently appreciated;

v) the health certification and other documentation procedures, as well as import controls, would
require some countries of origin to review existing procedures and requirements now preventing
repatriation.

Disposals should benefit enforcement and administration of the Convention ensuring no gain to the trade

in general or any trader in particular. It is of equal importance that guilty importers and/ or carriers of live

specimens should meet costs of confiscation, custody and return of specimens to countries of origin. The
suggestion that charitable and conservation organisations should bear financial burdens for inadequate
governmental provisions and violations of law by animal traders is unacceptable. It is the responsibility of
traders, as of governments, to know national laws and regulations applying to the terms of the

Convention.

The poorly organised international trade in live fauna already has been subsidised by
governments and non-governmental organisations who, for many years have paid for its deficiencies. If
the trade is to continue, the need for international regularisation, via CITES, and the development of
means to require traders to bear the costs of their own malpractices is essential. An initial beginning to
achieve this may be that traders should be registered within each Party state, accepting obligations, when
applying for registration, to conform with the terms and conditions of the Convention. Pending
rationalisation of the trade it is possible that Parties may withhold permits from certain exporters whom
the evidence shows to be persistently negligent in the preparation and shipment of living specimens and/
or involved in other violations of the Convention.

Endangered Species in Transit
Problems have been experienced at London Heathrow airport with suspect shipments of CITES
Appendix species. Detention or seizure of specimens in transit from one country to another has been
difficult without firm evidence of intent to smuggle or otherwise evade national controls under CITES.
Smuggling of specimens in false compartments or wrongly identified were rare, possibly due to the
reputation of the airport for having strict controls.

Several incidents did occur at the airport involving Appendix I species in transit from one non-
CITES country to another. One widely publicised incident in 1979 involved an unweaned female lowland
gorilla, a species designated as Appendix I. The gorilla originated in Cameroun and was shipped to an
Austrian dealer who held it brieﬂy before attempting to export it to Japan via London Heathrow airport.
The gorilla was detained at the Animal Quarantine Station on welfare grounds when it was discovered
that it was travelling unaccompanied, requiring bottle feeding every four hours and was contained in a
sub-standard crate. It was considered that the gorilla was too young to survive the long journey to Japan.
UK Customs were informed of the gorilla and it was detained for a week while the background to the
transaction was investigated. Seizure of the Appendix I gorilla was found to be legally impossible and the
gorilla was released from detention by Customs. On welfare grounds, the gorilla was not allowed to
continue on to Japan, but special arrangements were made for its return to Austria in an adequate crate. A
few days later the gorilla was shipped to Japan by another route avoiding Heathrow. The documentation
accompanying the gorilla in this case did identify the animal correctly, although the dealer had signed an
airline shippers certificate stating that it was not an endangered species.

In another incident in 1982, an Appendix 1 young pigmy chimpanzee was seen in transit from a
Belgium dealer to the Medical Academy in Warsaw. Believed to be destined for research, it was well
crated and in a sound condition, but circumstances again, did not allow for its detention. The airline
documents contained only the name of the shipper’s agent and misleadingly referred to the specimen as
‘monkey’. Airlines commonly fail to fully record the shipper’s identity and whereabouts, and shippers
often give brief, misleading descriptions of the specimens. These matters are important in the event of
legal and other difficulties with the specimens in transit.

One successful case involved a young siamang gibbon, found in the hand baggage of a
passenger in transit from Thailand to Spain. Intention to smuggle was accepted by UK customs and the

g1bbon was seized and eventually transferred to an establishment specialising 1n the captive breeding and
study of these spec1es.

These incidents show the importance of:

i) airlines liaising fully with CITES and not accepting endangered species wrongly identified in
.. documentation;

11) an1mOal holding facilities in caring for detained specimens which might not otherwise survive such
hold1ng periods or be seized in the first place for lack of this service;

111) welfare legislation in aiding the enforcement of CITES.

 

 

 

 

 




 

31

Conclusions and Recommendations

Whatever the system devised it is clear there will always be a residual number of traders engaged in illegal
activity. A systematic revision of the trade must start, inevitably, with the traders. For practical reasons it
needs to begin in consumer countries: it is they who are the major cause of the problems; their politico-
economic power and resources are overwhelming in relation to those of the main wildlife producer
countries. Since the one who pays the piper calls the tune, it is the consumer countries who are calling the
tune for the live wildlife trade, despite bans by some wildlife producers.

Liaison Between Interested Groups

If the suffering and loss of life caused by the international trade in live wild specimens due to injury,
damage to health or cruel treatment is to be prevented it is essential to achieve reciprocal co-operation and
liaison between Management Authorities of the Parties, IATA, CITES Secretariat and Technical
Committee and Non-Governmental Organisation (NGOs). The emphasis of such a group must be with
standards of practice.

It is RECOMMENDED that such LIAISON MUST INCLUDE GOVERNMENT AND
AIRLINES OFFICIALS DIRECTLY CONCERNED WITH DAILY PRACTICAL INSPECTION
AND HANDLING PROBLEMS OF THE TRADE. IT SHOULD ALSO INCLUDE NGOs WITH
DIRECT, CONSISTENT, PRACTICAL EXPERIENCE OF THE TRADE.

With respect to the involvement of representatives of the trade in such liaison, it is just to invite
comments, evidence and objections from the trade on decisions and recommendations Of this proposed
liaicslon group, but it is inappropriate for trade representatives to take part in the better policing of the
tra e.

Moratorium on the lntemational Commercial Trade
Given reciprocal understanding and co-operation the appended recommendations and amendments to
IATA Live Animal Regulations will present no major difficulties. Improved implementation, however,
will be far less simple and will require time to be developed.

Pending establishment of such procedures, and with certain exceptions for non-commercial
transactions, A PARTIAL OR FULL MORATORIUM ON THE INTERNATIONAL
COMMERCIAL TRADE IN LIVE SPECIMENS OF FAUNA IS JUSTIFIED.

Recommendations on the Revision and Amendment of the IATA Live Animals
Regulations

More than sixty specific recommendations on the amendment of Container Notes can be found in The
Preparation and Shipment of Living Specimens of Wild Fauna in International Trade Carriedﬁy Air.
Being too numerous to mention in this excerpted report, the following general recommendations are
emphasised:

1. Shipment of Pregnant Animals and Immature Specimens
No IATA member airline or participating carrier should accept pregnant females or females

with unweaned young or unweaned young alone.

2. Food and Water Requirements .
Notes now stating ‘may be provided’ must be replaced with ‘must be prov1ded’ and the statement

that birds do not require feeding during the first 24 hours must be deleted. No airline should
accept live bird or animal cargoes unprovided with appropriate food and water and lacking
means of access to replenish them as necessary during transit.

3. Crate Design . 0 .
Specific measurements for crates and the number of spec1mens they should contain need to be

stated.

4. A main aim of IATA/CITES should be, so far as is possible, the standardisation of containers

based on amended designs. . . .
Bearing in mind that certain live wild spec1es are regularly shipped over established routes, IATA/

CITES approved re—usable crates should be introduced.

5. No airline should accept living specimens so crated that inspection by wildlife, customs and
health and welfare officials is obstructed. IATA/ CITES should emphasise all crates are subject to
inspection by official customs, conservation and/or health and welfare inspectors.

 

 

 




 

 

 

32

10.

11.

 

Acclimatisation

IATA/CITES should advise airline carriers to require official certification that wild live
specimens presented for shipment have been acclimatised to captivity for a period of not less
than 28 days prior to shipment.

Airline Carrier Liabilities

If IATA Regulations are to be enforceable insofar as airlines are concerned the presumption must be
that, on acceptance, packing is not defective. Liability by airlines must be accepted and disclaimers
for liability for losses due to ‘natural’ causes should be reviewed. Through IATA Live Animals
Regulations, airline carriers at present disclaim liability for defective packing and for mortality and
injury suffered due to natural causes.

Routings of Shipments

IATA should instruct airline carriers accepting live animals for shipment to route them,
wherever possible, via airports with animal facilities. A list should be annotated indicating the
status of the facility, its times of opening and what species it is equipped to handle.

Such routings are of value to the monitoring and enforcement of CITES endangered species and
health and welfare requirements, and would counter the deliberate avoidance of such facilities by
traders.

Airline Personnel Information and Education

Awareness/informal material must be produced and distributed by IATA and CITES in
conjunction with unions and NGOs. Posters in the manner of work/safety warning notices
must be designed and displayed in cargo sheds, offices and cargo holds showing basic handling
procedures.

Container labels should be produced duplicating points emphasised in the posters. Cartoon-
pictorial methods would eliminate the need for detailed text.

Species not Suitable for Carriage

In conjunction with CITES, WTMU and the present authors, a list of species unsuitable for
carriage should be compiled and included in IATA with the instruction that no airline should
accept such species except in some non—commercial cases where Scientific Authorities are satisfied
that special and adequate facilities have been made.

Species Most Commonly Shipped
IATA Container Notes (with amendments recommended in this study), for species most

commonly shipped, should be produced in leaﬂet form and made available to licensing
authorities, enforcement officers and exporters/importers.

FURTHER RECOMMENDATIONS

12.

13.

The CITES GUIDELINES FOR TRANSPORT

CITES Guidelines state that ‘. . . these packers’ guidelines have been designed to obviate the
inclusion of any dimensions or specifications as to the precise materials that should be used in the
construction of containers’. And: ‘. . .scope is given . . . to use suitable crates in such a manner that
they are suitable for the size and number . . . [of specimens]’. (Author’s emphasis). These phrases

encourage the causes of most of the problems which the Guidelines do nothing practical to solve.
The CITES Guidelines should be reviewed in this context.

Preparation and Shipment Requirement Sheets

There should be liaison on preparation and shipment affairs between CITES, IATA and the Parties.
In the interests of CITES and IATA implementation the following is recommended:

Preparation and shipment requirement sheets should be introduced for completion at the same
time as export licence applications.

The sheets would inform applicants it is their prior duty to conform with specific Container Note
requirements, that specimens had been acclimatised to captivity for not less than 28 days and in
Slgning these sheets, exporters would undertake to conform with these requirements. The sheets
would accompany other documents.

CITES export certificates should include a crating, health and welfare checklist to be completed
and signed by official inspectors prior to shipment-

Officials would note the crate is suitable; that food and water are provided; that all specimens are

visible and not overcrowded. A copy would be affixed to the travel documents for information at
tran81t and destinatlon airports.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

14.

15.

16.

17.

18.

19.

20.

21.

22.

23.

33

Education of Enforcement Ofﬁcers

Video and slide presentations should be produced covering crating and welfare standards and
other topics mentioned in this report which can be used to instruct airlines and official
enforcement officers.

Convention Article III para 30))

This Article specifies that for Appendix I listed specimens the ‘Scientific Authority of the State of
import’ (should be) ‘satisfied the recipient of a living specimen is suitably equipped to house and care ‘
or 1t’.

Species listed on Appendices II and III as well as species not listed by CITES appendices should
also be included in Article III para 3(b)

This is consistent with the ruling of the Parties that Guidelines on the Care and Shipment of Living
Specimens should apply to all species.

Convention Clauses to cover specimens in Quarantine

Convention clauses referring to living specimens with respect to injury, damage to health or cruel
treatment are relevant for specimens in quarantine. As far as the UK and USA are concerned, living
specimens are not permitted to enter the domestic trade until the quarantine period is completed.
This implies that during this period they may be regarded as still in international trade.
Convention clauses as mentioned above should cover the quarantine or holding period.

Re-export of diseased specimens
In light of human and animal health interests, re-export of diseased specimens should be
reviewed by health and conservation bodies.

Responsibility for costs of re-exported, conﬁscated specimens

Disposals should benefit enforcement and administration of the Convention ensuring no gain to
the trade in general or any trader in particular is essential. Guilty importers and/ or carriers of live
specimens should meet costs of confiscation, custody and return of specimens to states of export.
Such costs should be borne by the trade collectively where the culpable individual trader cannot be
compelled to meet the costs.

Repatriation and Holding of Conﬁscated Specimens.

Considerable problems have been experienced worldwide in the holding and repatriation of
confiscated specimens back to the country of origin. Often, enforced use of sub-standard holding
premises has resulted in the death or suffering of the confiscated specimens.

It is recommended that urgent action is take to alleviate this situation.

The Need for Airport Animal Holding Facilities.

There is an indispensable need for adequate facilities for handling animals in international trade at all
major air and sea ports where a large volume of live fauna are transhipped or imported/exported.
CITES/IATA should urge the establishment of such facilities and the international trade in
living specimens should be restricted to air and sea ports with such facilities.

These facilities could be used for the housing of confiscated specimens.

Restricted Ports of Entry
All countries should restrict the designated ports of entry to the minimum and preferably to
those ports with the facilities to handle and care for them.

Standards of Enforcement of Welfare Legislation

All Party States should adopt welfare legislation similar to that of the UK Transit of Animals
Order, 1973. Such legislation should be strictly enforced to counter the use of more ‘lenient’
airports by the trade.

Welfare Conditions at Traders Holding and Quarantine Premises

If Parties to CITES are to treat seriously the Convention’s requirements to the preparation and

shipment of living specimens, the following is recommended:

i) that Authorities responsible for veterinary health and welfare need to exercise more stringent
supervision over welfare standards at traders’ premises;

ii) that national enforcement systems need specialised inspectors with no reliance on importers/
exporters whatsoever and with aviculturist and zoological competence in assessing standards of
welfare;

iii) that prospective importer/ exporters of live fauna need to provide evidence of such knowledge,
experience and competence in caring properly for captive wild fauna;

iv) that importers/ exporters who continually receive consignments of wild fauna sustaining high
mortalities either in transit or within the period of holding/quarantine, should have their
licences suspended pending investigation.

 




 

 

34

24. Preparation and Shipment Liaison Ofﬁcer (PSLO)
NGOs should consider the employment of a PSLO, endorsed by CITES and acceptable to IATA,
to visit main import/export problem centres where particular difficulties exist in regard to
preparation and shipment conditions. Management Authorities and airlines are generally amenable
to receiving advice and are prepared to co-operate by acting upon it.

25. Register of Traders
A Register of Traders should be compiled, to identify traders engaged in the export, import and
re-export of live specimens.

 

Appendix

Statutory Instruments. 1973 No. 1377. Animals.

The Transit of Animals (General) Order 1973

2. For the purposes of the Diseases of Animals Act 1950 in its application to this order—

(a) the definition of the expression ‘animals’ contained in section 84(1) thereof is hereby extended so as
to comprise all mammals, except man, and any kind of four-footed beast which is not a mammal,
and all fish, reptiles, crustaceans and other cold-blooded creatures of any species; and

(b) the definition of the expression ‘poultry’ contained in section 84(2) thereof is hereby extended so as
to comprise birds of any species.

Protection of animals from injury and unnecessary suffering during loading, unloading and carriage
5.(1) No person shall load any animal into or unload any animal out of a vessel, aircraft or vehicle, or
cause or permit any animal to be so loaded or unloaded, in a way which is likely to cause injury or
unnecessary suffering to the said animal; and in the application of this paragraph to loading, the duty
imposed on a person to safeguard an animal from injury or unnecessary suffering shall extend to injury or
suffering which is likely to arise during carriage, or at any time during which the animal is in the vessel,
aircraft or vehicle.
(2) No person shall carry any animal by sea, air, road or rail, or cause or permit any animal to
be so carried, in a way which is likely to cause injury or unnecessary suffering to the said animal.
(3) Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing provisions of this Article, it shall be the
duty of any person in charge of an animal which is being loaded into, unloaded out of or carried in a
vessel, aircraft or vehicle, to ensure that the said animal is not, and will not be, caused injury or
unnecessary suffering——
(a) by reason of inadequately constructed or insecure fittings in that part of the vessel, aircraft or
vehicle, or in the receptacle, in which the animal is to be or is being carried;
(b) by coming into contact with any fitting or other part of the vessel, aircraft or vehicle which has not
been adequately padded or fenced-off, or with any other obstruction;
(c) from undue exposure to the action of the weather or the sea;
(d) from an inadequate supply of fresh air, whether the vessel, aircraft or vehicle is stationary or in
motion;
(e) from exposure to undue fluctuations in temperature, humidity or air pressure, or from undue
exposure to noise or vibration; or
(f) from any other cause.

(4) The duty imposed on a person by the preceding paragraph to ensure that an animal is not
caused injury or unnecessary suffering from the causes referred to therein shall extend to any period
during which the said animal is waiting to be loaded into or unloaded out of a vessel, aircraft or vehicle.

(5) Where an inspector has reason to believe that an animal loaded in a vessel, aircraft or vehicle
is likely, from whatever cause, to be caused injury or unnecessary suffering if carried therein, he may, by
notice in writing served on the master of the vessel, the commander of the aircraft or the carrier or his
agent, or (in the case of carriage by road or rail) on the person for the time being having charge of the said
animal, prohibit the carriage thereof, and require the animal to be unloaded forthwith out of the vessel,
aircraft or vehicle, and removed to such place as may be specified in the notice.

(6) Animals shall not be carried by sea or air if, in the judgement of the master or, as the case
may be, the commander, there are grounds for believing that, due to adverse weather conditions, the

voyagle or flight will be attended by serious risk of injury to, suffering by, or loss of life among the said
anima s.

 




 

35

Feeding, watering and general care of animals during carriage

6.(1) It shall be the duty of the owner or charterer of a vessel and of the operator of an aircraft in which

animals are being carried by sea or air, and of the carrier or other person in charge of animals being carried

by road and rail, to ensure that—

(a) such animals are adequately fed and watered at suitable intervals during carriage, including for this
purpose any period during which the said animals are waiting to be loaded or unloaded;

(b) where necessary, adequate supplies of food and water appropriate to the species of animals being
carried are available in the vessel, aircraft or vehicle;

(c) an attendant is available during carriage who shall be responsible for carrying out feeding and
watering as required by sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, and for the general care of the animals in
accordance with the provisions of this order; and

(d) where necessary, suitable access is readily available to the said animals for the purpose of feeding and
watering, and for otherwise attending to them as required by this order, and that, if required, an
adequate means of artificial lighting is provided.

(2) The provisions of sub-paragraphs (c) and (d) of the preceding paragraph shall not apply
where animals being carried by air are accommodated in the hold of the aircraft; but in any case, it shall be
the duty of the operator to ensure that such animnals are adequately fed and watered and otherwise
attended to when the aircraft in which ”they are being carried is on the ground.

Unfit animals and animals likely to give birth during carriage

7.(1) Subject to the following provisions of this Article, where the owner of an animal or his agent, or the
consignor, carrier or other person in charge thereof, has reason to believe that the animal is unfit, or that it
is likely to give birth during carriage, he shall not permit the said animal to be loaded into a vessel, aircraft
or vehicle, or to be carried therein.

(2) Where an inspector is of the opinion that an animal intended to be carried—

(a) cannot, by reason of unfitness, be so carried without unnecessary suffering, or

(b) is likely to give birth while being so carried,

he may take such steps as appear to him to be necessary to mark or otherwise identify the said animal, and
may require the owner or other person in charge thereof to detain the animal at a suitable place pending its
examination by a veterinary inspector, and to unload it out of any vessel, aircraft or vehicle for the
purpose.

(3) Where a veterinary inspector is satisfied that the condition of an animal is such as would
bring it within sub-paragraph (a) or sub—paragraph (b) of the preceding paragraph, he may serve on the
owner or other person in charge of the said animal a notice in writing—

(a) prohibiting absolutely or for such a period as may be specified in the notice the carriage or, as the
case may be, the further carriage of the animal; or

(b) permitting the carriage, or, as the case may be, the further carriage of the animal subject to such
conditions as may be specified in the notice.

(4) The person in charge of an animal which is to be carried by sea, air, road or rail, shall render
such assistance as may be necessary to enable an inspector or veterinary inspector to examine the said
animal for the purposes of this Article, and shall comply with all reasonable requirements of an inspector
or veterinary inspector to examine the said animal for the purposes of this Article, and shall comply With
all reasonable requirements of an inspector or veterinary inspector in connection therew1th, and With the
provisions of a notice served under the preceding paragraph. .

(5) The reasonable expenses arising from the exercise of the powers conferred on an inspector
or veterinary inspector by the foregoing provisions of this Article shall be recoverable ondemand as a c1v11
debt by the Minister or, as the case may be, the local authority from the owner of the animal or hls agent,
or from the consignor thereof, or from any person on whom a notice under paragraph (3) of this Article

has been served.

Carriage of animals in receptacles . . .

8.(1) It shall be the duty of the consignor, carrier, or other person for the time be1ng 1n charge of an animal

which is to be carried in a receptacle to ensure that the receptacle— . . .

(a) is soundly constructed in a manner which is not likely to cause injury to animals carrled thereln, and
is maintained in a good state of repair;

(b) is suitable for the species of animal to be carried therein; '

(c) is not overcrowded, and that the animals are accommodated in such a way as to avoid any risk of
injury or unnecessary suffering; . . . .

(d) has securely attached thereto a label or similar form of notice clearly indicating that the receptacle
contains live animals, and stating the species of those animals; and

(e) bears a sign indicating the upright position thereof.

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

36

(2) It shall be the duty of the carrier or other person in charge of an animal which is to be carried
in a receptacle to ensure that the receptacle— . _
(a) is secured in such a manner as to prevent its displacement by the motion of the vessel, aircraft or
vehicle; and
(b) is so placed in the vessel, aircraft or vehicle as to permit unimpeded access thereto, and adequate
ventilation thereof; .
Provided that the requirements of sub-paragraph (b) of this paragraph With regard to
unimpeded access to a receptacle shall not apply where a receptacle is carried in the hold of an aircraft.

Accommodation of animals during carriage

9.(1) It shall be the duty of the carrier or other person in charge of animals being carried to ensure that any
vessel, aircraft or vehicle, or any pen therein, in which the animals are being carried 18 not overcrowded,
and that the said animals are accommodated in such a way as to avoid any risk of injury or unnecessary
suffering.

(2) Where two or more animals are being carried together in the same vessel, aircraft or vehicle,
the carrier or other person in charge of the said animals shall ensure that, where necessary, the animals are
separated from each other; and in determining whether it is necessary that such animals should be so
separated, he shall have regard to their species, and in particular to any natural hostility which such
animals may have towards each other.

Animals injured during carriage
10.(1) Where an animal is seriously injured during carriage by sea or air, the master or, as the case may be,
the commander shall, unless he is of the opinion that the said animal can be kept alive and landed without
cruelty, cause it to be humanely slaughtered in a manner appropriate to its species:

Provided that this paragraph shall not apply to—
(a) horses carried by sea to which the provisions of section 40 of the Act apply; and
(b) horses carried by air. '

(2) Where an animal is seriously injured during carriage by road or rail, the person in charge of
the said animal shall without delay arrange either——
(a) for the animal to receive veterinary treatment; or
(b) for the animal to be carried with all practicable speed to the nearest place at which it can be

slaughtered, if such carriage can be effected without cruelty.

Offences

11. The contravention of any provision of this order, or the failure to comply with any such provision, or
With any prOViSion of a notice served under Article 5 or Article 7 hereof, or the causing or permitting of
any such contravention or non—compliance, shall be an offence against the Act.

Local Authority to enforce order.

12.hThis order shall, except where otherwise expressly provided, be executed and enforced by the local
aut ority.

 

 




 

 




 

 

The present study has shown that with respect to the trade in live specimens by air:

i)

IATA Live Animals Regulations are in need of review and amendment to be consistent
with the terms of CITES;

that airlines generally do not enforce IATA-LAR in practice, that IATA and airlines
are able to co-operate with enforcement agencies but cannot be expected to perform an

enforcement role other than is consistent with their business interests;

that while IATA-LAR, suitably amended, may establish satisfactory standards, such
standards are meaningless without action by the Parties to enable the Regulations to be
applied in practice;

that the responsibility for preparation and shipment is with the traders;

that, generally, the traders cannot be deemed to meet the requirements of CITES or
IATA for preparation and shipment;

that unacceptably high mortalities occur as the result of practices by traders causing
injury, damage to health and cruel treatment harmful to the conservation purposes of
the Convention;

that more effective action is needed, and is possible, to repair existing deficiencies;

that wildlife importer/consumer countries should initiate remedial action since their

demand is the major cause of the trade and have the resources necessary for such
action.

 

Typesetting Artwork and Printing by Calvert’s Press (TU) Workers’ Co—operotive - 01—739 1474

 

 




