The Rich Poor Horse

AND

The Poor Rich Horse.

BY

Mrs. G. M. FAIRGHILD.

The poor rich horse, driven by a tall coachman with high
hat and white gloves, looked very gay as he pranced up to the
door of an elegant establishment on the avenue. The breast
of the noble creature was covered with foam, and he held his
head very high. His mouth was stretched Wide open, and he
tossed his head up and down and back and forth, and pawed
the air with his fore-feet. So high were his eyes—almost
looking toward the sky— that he scarcely seemed able to see a
fat old dray-horse that stood near, regarding him with a sort of
sleepy wonder, and considering him as belonging to another

(1)

 

 

 




 

“ set” than his, entirely. The old horse did not suppose it
would do any good to pass the time of day with his neighbor,
as the rich horse undoubtedly regarded himself as far too grand
to communicate with such a humble personage, so he changed
the bit around in his mouth, and was just about to drop into a
gentle doze when a sound of distress from the rich horse caused
his plain neighbor to open his eyes wide and to regard the
former with considerable curiosity, which at length expressed
itself in this wise: You look very gay, neighbor; are you not
comfortable with your ﬁne silver-plated harness and shiny
trappings ?”

“ I can hear you, though I can scarcely see you,” answered
the poor rich horse, ‘.‘ for my harness, although undoubtedly
very handsome, is a perfect torture to me. You can see for
yourself how my head is tied up by a new-fangled contrivance
they call an over-check. My eyes are almost blinded by the
glare of the sun, and my; neck aches, and my head throbs, and
I am really quite miserable.”

“ I don’t know much about check-reins,” bluntly said the
rich poor horse, “ and I have never hauled ﬁne ladies around
in their carriages. I supposed, by the way I have seen them
petting you with their soft white hands, that they wouldn’t
want you to be dressed up so you would be uncomfortable or
suffer by it.”

“ 0, they don’t think,” sighed the poor rich horse, “they
'~ doubtless suppose I have a very ﬁne time with nothing to do
but draw this pretty doll’s wagon. If I could only have my
choice I would change places with you. I would rather haul
a dirt-wagon without any check-rein on than to be dressed up
in this ﬁne style and suffer as I do.”

“ You’d ﬁnd the dirt-wagon pretty heavy hauling,” replied
the rich poor horse.

“ But I’d have my neck free, and be allowed to exert my
full strength doing it,” retorted the poor rich horse with some
spirit, and as he gave an extra strain at his check-rein, the
rich poor horse noticed the blood was starting from the corners
of his mouth. “Is it the check-rein that makes your mouth
bleed? ” asked the rich poor horse.

(2)

“ﬁve;
9
D
I...‘

5‘: fr.




x
. “‘ﬂ
/ -A

“ Oh yes i I’m getting quite used to that. Very often my
mouth is so sore I can scarcely eat, and then they think I’m ill,
and a surgeon with a great long name ——v-e-r-y-t-y-r-a-n-n-y
I believe they call him —-—comes in with a black bottle, and ties
up my head, and pours some dreadful medicine down my throat,

and whips me when I kick at him.”

The rich poor horse now opened his eyes wide and surveyed
his companion under the light of some new idea.

“ Well, you have a nice stable to stay in, don’t you? N ow
I have nothing but a plain barn and no padding. To be sure, on
cold nights I have straw up to my knees; but I don’t have
any blanket, and my hair gets rough and shaggy.”

“ Oh dear,” sighed the poor rich horse, “I would much
rather have your coat of fur, and wouldn’t care how rough it
was. If they would only let me have the hair that belongs to
me it would be much more comfortable than a blanket. They
cut off my hair and I feel every chilly wind that blows. I
don’t dance around as you see me doing because I feel
gay and happy, but because I am perfectly miserable. Some-
times they make me wear the over-check and blinders, and then
it seems as if I would lose my wits entirely. Little then can I
see but the sky and the tops of people’s heads; and if I
stumble or run away, when I am afraid of something I can’t
see, the driver whips me where my hair has been clipped, and I
can’t say a word back.”

“ 0, well, you don’t have much hard work to do,” said the
rich poor horse, “ you ought to appreciate that and make the
best of your condition.”

“ I’ll change places with you at any time,” replied the poor
rich horse. “ My load becomes heavier than yours commonly
is, because I am so tied back and curbed and reined, that half
my strength is spent trying to relieve my aching muscles and
neck. When I don’t have to wear the over-check, then they put
on the bearing (check-rein) rein, which is no better. And then
when we fashionable horses grow old, and lose our style and
spirit, we are sold to somebody who forgets we are not used to
labor which develops the muscles, and we are whipped when we

(3)

 




can’t pull heavy loads, and have to endure exposure and all sorts
of other hardships 'When the least prepared for them.”

“ Poor rich horse,” “said the compassionate attaché of the
dray, “I think I will try and—be content with my lot after
this." ' -

Just then the drayman came around ~With some nubbins of
corn. The gay coachman mounted his box and.,.~with a crack
of his whip sent the poor rich horse ﬂying down the street.
The rich poor horse rubbed his nose on his master’s shoulder
and told him what he had heard about poor rich horses, and
the two jogged off together the best friends in the world.

PLEADING-S OF MERCY.

 

ATTENTION TO THE ATROCITY or CHECK-REINS \V(:>L?I,i) NOT
in: A)IISS.—- Chicago Daily Times.
“The check-rein is a great evil, a severe restraint, a con-

stant torment. The tossing of the head of checked horses in-
dicates their distress.”

Dr. John McBride, of the Royal Veterinary'COllege, Lon-
don, says: “ The check-rein seriously interferes with circula-
tion of the blood, predisposing to megrims, apoplexy, coma,
etc. It also is a common cause of roaring.”

Dr. Pritchard, Veterinary Surgeon, states: “ Check-reins
interfere with breathing, injure the mouth, induce paralysis,
and render the horse liable to stumble and fall.”

“The checkirein. is EXTR CMELY CRUEL, and a cause of dis-
ease. It is an absurdityand a hindrance to a horse’s speec .”
—Dr. Fleming, Vet. Sf’ll’l'g‘lélj'n,[7130‘2jCl/l, Eng.

Norton Smith, the noted horse‘trainer, says: “The over-
draw check should be prohibited by law. * I. am opposed to all
over-draw check-reins, and to check-bits of every sort.”

 

This leaﬂet can be obtained from the Humane Education Committee, No. 29
Exchange Street, Room 25, (Elevator 27 Exchange Street), Providence, R. 1.
Price 10 cents for 20 copies or 40 cents per hundred, postage paid.

At same address may be obtainedother leaﬂets, books, etc., on the care and
kind treatment of animals, suitable for use in schools and Bands of Mercy.

Send postage stamp for price list.

A sample set of leaﬂets will be sent on receipt of 25 cents.

 




