ANIMAL AND
AN'l'l-VlVlSEC'l‘IOw SOCIETY ‘
:19 3 5 :

FOUNDED IN 1905

 

 

l, REPORTS for 1933 and1934

 

 

The Horse Slave in the Mine . .
The Dog Perpetually Chained . .
The Imprisoned Bird . .

The Ox Goaded to Slaughter . .
The Calves Packed in the Train . .

The Wild Creature in the Jaws of the
Steel Trap . .

The Cowed Lion in the Perambulating
Cage . .

The Laboratory Animal Tortured by
Poison and Knife . .

THESE CALL TO YOUR HEART.

 

 

IS, St. James’s Place, St. lames’s Street
London, S.W.l '

(Formerly at 35, Old Bond Street.)

 




 

Read

“PROGRESS TO -DAY ”

THE AN TI-VIVISECT ION AND
HUMANITARIAN REVIEW

Founded and Directed by L. Lind-af-Hageby.

 

This Journal writes of:

The Elusiveness of “Progress ” based on Injustice and
Exploitation of the Weak.

The Cruelty of Man’s Treatment of his Fellow-
Creatures.

The Failure of Modern Medicine to Create Health.

The Iniquity and Uselessness of Experiments on Living
Animals.

The Unscrupulousness and Commercialism of the Use
of Sera and Vaccine.

Disease and Physical Degeneration Caused by the
Vivisectional System.

The Tyranny and Danger of State Medicine.

The Barbarities Connected with the Slaughter and
Transport of Animals.

The Miseries of Animals Trapped for Fur; Hunted
and Slain for Pleasure; Kept as Captives in Zoos
and Menageries; or Made to Perform Unnatural
Tricks.

The Building up of a Civilisation Founded on Sympathy
and Justice.

The Universal Kinship.

The Study of Mind in Animals.

The Necessity of Humane Education in every School.

Laws and Legislation embodying Practical Measures
for the Protection of Animals.

The Medical and Scientiﬁc Case against Vivisection.

The Science of Health and the Art of Living in
Conformity with the Laws of Nature.

The Enlightenment Of the Public on all Matters Apper-
taining to the Creation of Personal Health and
the Prevention of Disease.

The Inherent and Basic Oneness of Religion and
Science.

 

THE REVIEW is Independent, Fearless and Fair.

Four Numbers per Annum. Single Copies 6d.

ANNUAL SUBSCRIPTION - - - 2s. 6d.

All remittances to be sent ta:~——

The Manager, PROGRESS TO-DAY, 15 St. James’s Place, London, S.W.1

 

 

44?..- V_,.<.v,:.:;h1

 




ﬂ‘ﬁ‘égﬁ mm

 

The Animal Defence and
Anti-Vivisection Society.

LONDON: 15, ST. JAMES’S PLACE,
ST. JAMES’S STREET, S.W.1.

(formerly 35, Old Bond Street, W.l)
GENEVA : 4, COUR ST. PIERRE.

Founded in 1 906.

 

 

BANKERS :
The Midland Bank Ltd., 36, Old Bond Street, London, W.l.

 

 

Telephone—Regent 0845.

OBJECTS :

A Consistent Opposition to all forms of Cruelty
to Animals and Abolition of Vivisection.
“ No civilisation is complete which does
not include the dumb and defenceless of

God’s creatures within the sphere of

charity and mercy.”

.3
5

Queen Victoria.

 

REPORT

for the Year
1 9 3 3

[Issued in 1935.]

 

 




 

 

 

 

”u’ v——._—.._ ..

The Animal Defence and

Anti e-Vivisection Society.

 

Founder
President: and Hon. Director:
THE DUCHESS OF HAMILTON. MISS LIND-AF-HAGEBY.
Vice-Presidents:
The Duke of Hamilton and R. B. Cuninghame Graham,
Brandon. Esq.
the Duchess of Manchester. Madame Sarah Grand.
Squadron leader The Marquis Miss Abadam.
of Clydesdale M.P. George Arliss, Esq.
The Dowager Countess of: Mrs. George Arliss.
Plymouth. Mrs. Arneliffe Sennett.
The Lady Mary Savile. The Rt Hon. 511' Ralph
The ViscOunt Snowden of Paget KCMG'
Iekornshaw. Col. Rt Hon I. C. Wedgwood,
, . - D. S. O., P. C., M. P.
lhe Lord Leigh.
.. . , Rt. Hon. George Lansbury,
The Hon. Mrs. Forbes. P.C. MP.
Dame Clara Butt- Holford Knight, Esq.,
Mrs. Chnton Pinckney Farrell. _ _, MP.
R. Fielding—Quid, Esq, D. R. Grenfell, Esq., M.P.
M.D., M.R.C.P. Thomas Cape, Esq., MP.
Executive Council:
Mrs. Bayley-Worthington. ‘ NIiss Constance Lardelli.
The Countess Beauchamp. l Miss Lind-af—Hageby.
Lady Blomﬁeld. Miss Nora Logan.
lVIrs. Congreve. T
. . l Mrs. Angus Macnaghten.
Miss Dellus. .
Mrs. Despard. 1 The Duchess of Manchester.
Miss Faulkner. _ l The Dowager Countess
Miss Madge Graham. Z 0f Plymouth.
The Duke of Hamilton. ‘ 13- SPCDS Steuart, ESQ-
The Duchess of Hamilton. } Mrs. Ernest Thesiger.

Hon. Treasurer: Miss B. C. DELIUS.
Secretary: Miss L. K. SCHARTAU.
Hon. Secretary of Humane Exhibition: Miss NORA LOGAN.

Secretary of Geneva International Humanitarian Bureau (Bureau
International Humanitaire Zoophile):

Mrs. M. E. MO‘RDAN.
2

 




 

 

International Humanitarian Bureau.
(Bureuu Imemutiouul Humuuu‘uire Z 0019/9276),
4, Cour St. Pierre, Geneva.

President, Miss Lind-af-Hageby.
Secretary, Mrs. M. E. Mordan.

A [urge uzm-zber 0f rociez‘ier 2'12 diﬂereut parts

(if the World are uﬂiliuteu’ t0 t/ye Geneva. Bureau.
The Youth Group of the Animal Defence and
Anti-Vivisection Society,

15, St. James’s Place, SW1.

Annual Membership 1/

Members receive the Group Badge in blue enamel 8: gold.
H 072. Secretary, Mr. Robert B. Mordan.

Branch of the Society:
East Anglian Van Federation.
H072. Secretary, Mrs. Selby-Lowndes, Norman Cross,
Peterborough.

Federated Societies:

The Scottish» Society for the Prevention of
Vivisection.

HouSecretury, Miss Netta Ivory, 10, Queensferry Street,
Edinburgh.

The Animal Welfare Society, China.
Hou. Secretary, Vice-Consul John Alexander, Nanking.

The Hankow Society for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Animals.

Hou. Secretary, Mr. K. C. Wei, Hankow.

The Animal Welfare Society of South A'frica.
H072. Secretary, Mrs. Kilpin, Cape Town.

The Midhurst Anti-Vivisection Society.
Hou. Fouuu’er um! Or‘guuirz’ug Secretary, Mrs. Arncliffe
Sennett, ” Eversheds,” Midhurst.

Worthing and District Animal Welfare Group.
I-Iaza.Secretur_1/_, Mrs. Zabell Chalmers, 39, Boundary Rd,
' Worthing. .

3

 




 

 

 

 

Honorary Members :

Comtesse Alberti d’Enno.

Lt.-Col. Olivetti Alberto.

Herr Ludwig Ankenbrand.

Mr. George Arliss.

Mrs. George Arliss.

Mr. Ronald A. L. M. Armstrong.

Dr. Alonzo Eugene Austin.

Dr. Beddow Bayly.

Mr. Algernon Blackwood.

Miss Esther Bright.

Dr. G. H. Burford.

R. C. Cammell, Esq.

Lady Chalmers.

Pasteur Ernest Christen.

Dr. Foveau de Courmelles.

Mrs. Charles H. Dankmeyer.

Madame Louis Dausset.

Mrs. Despard.

Mrs. Isabel Spelman Devereux.

Mrs. L. Eggleton.

Mrs. Clinton Pinckney Farrell.

Professor Richard Feldhaus.

Froken Rosa Fitinghoﬁ.

Dr. J. B. Fraser.

Rev. Dr. W. F. Geikie-Cobb.

Fru Christine Geirsvold.

Miss Ellen Glasgow.

Rev. Ethelbert Goodchild.

Mr. R. B. Cuninghame Graham.

Madame Sarah Grand.

Mrs. Francesco Woods Guarda-
bassi.

Mrs. Halvey.

Miss Nina Halvey.

Madame d’Hamecourt.

The Rev. Will Hayes.

Dr. Stenson HoOker.

Dr. Johannes Huber.

Dr. Valentine Knaggs.

Dr. Laplanche.

Dr. G. R. Laurent.

Maitre Louis Lespine.

Redaktor J. Halfdan Liander.

Monsieur L. A. Lichy.

Mr. Robert Logan.

Monsieur Duranton de Magny.

Madame Duranton de Magny.

Dr. Max, Duke of Saxony,
Professor of Theology, Univer-
sity of Freiburg.

Fru Malvina Mehrn.

Dr. Eduard Melkus.

Madame Mesureur.

Countess de Morella.

Mlle. S. Niess.

Madame Ostermann.

Fraulein Hedwig Pfeiﬁ‘er.

Frau Tini Pollak.

Miss Nancy Price.

Professor Ludwig Quidde.

Monsieur Louis Quiévreux.

Fru Hilde Richardt.

Baroness Nataly von Riefenstahl.

Dr. Jules Ruhl.

Dr. John Shaw.

The Baroness de Smeth d’Alphen.
M. Prosper Meyer de Stadelhofen.
Miss Josephine D. Storey.

Fru Elna Tenow.

Dr. G. N. W. Thomas.

Mrs. Hedley Thomson.
Professor Dr. Walter.

Mrs. Whitney.

Dr. Fergie Woods.

Life Members:

Miss E. C. Abraham.

Mrs. Agar Adamson.

William Aird, Esq.

J. P. d’Alb'uquerque, Esq.

Colonel Reginald Seymour
Allen.

Miss Anderson.

Mrs. Andrews.

Mrs. Angas.

The Lady Clare Annesley.

Mrs. Malet Antoniadi.

Mrs. Arbuthnot.

Miss Mary S. Arbuthnot.

P. S. M. Arbuthnot, Esq.

Miss A. Aris.

George Arliss, Esq.

Mrs. Arliss.

Mrs. Henry Arnold.

Miss S. Ashmore.

Mrs. Austin.

Sir A. Bailey.

Mrs. Bayley—Worthington.

H.H. The Gaekwar of
Baroda.

 




 

Li'fe Members (contd.).

H.H. The Maharani

Chimnabai of Baroda.
Mademoiselle G. de Barrios.

Mrs. Barton.

Mrs. Mount Batten.

Dr. T. Baty.

Dr. George Baudry.

F. Fleming Baxter, Esq.
Mrs. Fleming Baxter.
Herbert Beard, Esq.
Mrs. Edith Sayles Beard.
Mrs. Olive Peabody

Beardwood.

Miss Beeching.

Captain Edwin M. Beedell.

Henry Bell, Esq.
Miss E. M. Bellewes.
R. K. Bevington, Esq.
Mrs. Peto Bennet.
M. J. Bennett, Esq.
Mrs. Berridge.

Miss A. E. Betteley.
R. H. S. Biscoe, Esq.
Mrs. M. E. Blamires.
F. K. Bobby, Esq.

A. Boreel, Esq.

Mademoiselle F. I. S. Boreel.

Miss Irene Bosanquet.
Hobart Bosworth, Esq.
Dr. R. T. Bowden.
Mrs. Boyd-Carpenter.
Miss Dorothy Bracewell.
Mrs. Frank Bramley.

Miss B. F. L. Brettingham.

lWiss Esther Bright.
Mrs. D. Brink.
Miss M. A. Brooke.
Mrs. Butler.

Miss H. A. Wilmot Buxton..

Miss Hansen Caine.
Robert J. Caldwell, Esq.
Miss Callaghan.

Mrs. Callender.

Miss Campbell.

Mrs. E. H. Campbell.
Miss Frances Campion.

Mrs. Walter Carey. 34

5'

Major Carew.
Mrs. Carew.
Miss Carleton.
C. B. Carryer, Esq.
Mrs. Carter.
Miss M. R. Carter.
Miss Virginia Carter.
Lady Chapman.
H. S. Charrington, Esq.
bliss Cheetham.
Lady Wyndham Childs.
Mrs. A. Clark. ,
Miss G. E. Cliff.
Mrs. Mona C. Clinch.
lWrs. E. A. Coates.
Mrs. Kenneth Combe.
L. A. Compton-Rickett, Esq.
Mrs. Congreve.
Rear-Admiral Crawford
Conybeare.
Miss Nora Cooke.
F. U. Corbett, Esq.
Mrs. Cox.
Miss Crosﬁeld.
Miss Victoria Cross.
Lady Dance.
Mrs. Daniel.
Mrs. Ethel E. Davidson.
The Misses Dean.
Miss B. C. Delius.
Lady Dering.
Mrs. Donegan.
Miss Donkin.
The Marquis of Douglas
and Clydesdale, M.P.
The Lord David
Douglas-Hamilton.
The Lord Malcolm
Douglas-Hamilton.
The Lord Nigel
Douglas—Hamilton.
Mrs. Dowling.
Dr. Platon E. Drak-oules.
J. W. Drummond, Esq.
The Lady Margaret
Drummond—Hay.

gm-

‘

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

Life Members (contd.).

Miss A. E. Durell.

Mrs. Eckbo.

Miss M. E. Edge.

Mrs. Elliot.

Marquesa de la Ensenada.
La Marquise d’Ercour.

Dr. Agnes Estcourt-Oswald.

Mrs. Estler.

Captain St.John Eyre-Smith.

bliss Eveline Faulkner.
Ivor A. B. Ferguson, Esq.

Mrs. L. J. Wynne Floufkes.
W. W. A. Fitzgerald, Esq.

Miss E. F. Floyd.
Mrs. de Fonblanque.
The Hon. Mrs. Forbes.
Miss Ford.

Lady Fox.

Mrs. Friendsmith.

Mrs. Fry.

Signorina Clara de Galliani.

Mrs. Galsworthy.
Marquesa de la Gandara.
Miss M. B. Gardiner.
Miss Frances Gibson.
Mrs. Brooks Gifford.
Miss Louise M. Giobel.
Mrs. Arthur Glasgow.
William Gordon, Esq.

E. Goujou, Esq.

The Duchess of Grafton.
Miss Madge Graham.

R. B. Cuninghame Graham,

1V1 rs. Cyril Grant. [Esq

Mrs. C. A. Greenhough.
G. B. Grestock, Esq.
H. M. Griﬂin, Esq.
lVIiss M. T. Griﬂith.
Miss L. H. Grifﬁths.
Captain John Grifﬁths.
Miss G‘riinberg.

bliss M. S. Grundy.
Miss G. Guggenheim.
Mrs. Robinson Guppy.
Mrs. A. E. Hadley.

The Hon. Mrs. A. B. Haig.

Mrs. Haigh.
Mrs. Hall.
Miss Kathleen M. Hall.

. Miss Halliday.

Madame d’Hamecourt.

The Duke of Hamilton.

The Duchess of Hamilton.

James Hamilton, Esq.

lVIrs. Jack Hardaker.

bliss Agnes Harley.

Miss Corisande Hart. _

James Hopgood Hart, Esq.

Mrs. Basil Harwood.

Mrs. Hawkins.

Miss Helga Hawkins.

Miss Di Hay.

Mrs. Heading.

William T. Hersey, Esq.

E. Heseltine, Esq.

Edbutt Hewett, Esq.

Mrs. Hewitt.

Baron E. von der Heydt.

Mrs. Norman Hill.

Mrs. H. M. Hollins.

Mrs. Holmes.

Mrs. Laura Hore.

Williamson S. Howell,
Junior, Esq.

Mrs. VVilliamson Howell.

Miss Hughes.

H. Hughes, Esq.

Miss M. Hughes.

Sir G. B. Hunter.

The Marchioness of Huntly.

Miss Netta Ivory.

Miss Frances E. Jeffcock.

Miss Jeffreys.

Captain Lloyd Jones.

Mrs. Joseph.

lVIrs. Stiles Judson.

lVIiss B. Kearne.

Miss L. Kearne.

Miss Keating.

E. B. Keiller, Esq.

Mrs. Hugh Kelso.

Charles Kerr, Esq.

 




 

Life Members (contd.).

Mrs. Knight.

Miss Margaret Knight.
Mrs. W. H. Knight.
Mrs. M. Knowles.

Miss Constance Lardelli.
Mrs. John Large.

Miss Latham.

Mrs. Latilla.

Lady Lees.

Mrs. Legh.

Miss Audrey Leigh.
Miss Lind—af-Hageby.
Mrs. Lindley.

Miss Rose Lindsay.
Mrs. Lindtner-Persen.
Mrs. J. H. Lippincott.
Miss Nesta Lloyd.

Miss Nora Logan.

Mrs. A. H. Luck.

Miss Ida Lybeck.

Sir Malcolm Macalpine.
Leonard Macarthy, Esq.
Miss Anne Macdonald.
S. Macdonald, Esq.
Mrs. Tait Mackenzie.
Miss Mackintosh.

Mrs. Grant Mackintosh.
Mrs. Macnaghten.

Mrs. Maitland.

The Duchess of Manchester.

The Duchess of

Marlborough.

Edward 'Marsden, Esq.
lWrs. Martin. ' 1 ‘
Mrs. Edith Martin.
Mrs. M. M’artineau.
Mrs. Maude. -
Mrs. Mauran.

Miss Mayall.

Mrs. Miller.

Miss F. Millery.

Mrs. C. J. Mitchell.
Mrs. James M. Mitchell.
Miss C. Monk.

Lord Mo-nteagle.

Mrs. M. E. Mordan.’
The Countess Marianne

Lady Mosley. ”Morner.

Miss M. Murgatroyd.
Mrs. V. Murray.
Mrs. Otis Mygatt.
G. R. Naish, Esq.
Mrs. John Neal.
Mrs. Nevins.
Mademoiselle Niess.
Mrs. Philip Noble.
Miss Oldham.

Miss Joan Olsen.
Major J. B. Paget.
The Rt. Hon. Sir Ralph

Paget, K.C.M.G.

Miss St. John Partridge.
Miss C. L. Paterson.
Juliet Lady Paul.
Charles L. Peabody, Esq.
Philip G. Peabody, Esq.
Mrs. Herbert Pell.

Mrs. Penney.

Miss E. Cameron Penny.
Mrs. Perkins.

Sir Robert Perks.

Lady Perks.

Miss Perry.

Miss H. Pfeiffer.

R. 0. Phillips, Esq., M.Sc.

The Dowager Countess of

Plymouth.

Mrs. Leyborne Popham.

B. Copinger Prichard, Esq.

Ralph J. Pugh, Esq.
Arthur Pye, Esq.

Roy Pye, Esq.

Mrs. Radcliffe.

Miss Ruth M. Raeburn.
The Lady Rawlinson.
Miss E. Stafford Reade.
Mrs. Redmayne.

Miss N. Remer.

Mrs. Cecil Renton.
Lady Reynolds.

Miss Anne Richardson,

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Life Members (contd.).

Mrs. Riddell.

Gerard A. Ridley, Esq.
Mrs. Gerard A. Ridley.
Mrs. Rivington.

Mrs. Banks Roberts.
D. de la Roche, Esq.
Miss H. E. Rogers.
Miss M. Rogers.

Miss O. J. M. Rose.
Miss Helen Rush.

Elizabeth, Countess Russell.

Miss lVI. Hay Ruxton.
The Lady Isobel Ryder.
lWrs. Sadler.

Gordon Savile, Esq.
The Lady Mary Savile.
Miss L. K. Schartau.
Madame de Schinkel.
Mrs. Selby-Lowndes.
Miss Schuster.
Jefferson Seligman, Esq.
Miss A. E. Sellon.
Mrs. Arncliffe Sennett.
Mrs. Senington.

Mrs. Sharpe.

Mrs. H. Sheppard.
Mrs. M. Sheppard.

C. C. Sibthorpe, Esq.
Mrs. H. C. Simovnds.
Mrs. Deighton Simpson.
Miss Price Simpson.
Mademoiselle Victoire

Skarine.

Miss Leigh Smith.

Miss Vera Smith.

W. A. Smithe, Esq.
Ralph A. E. Smyth, Esq.
Mrs. Snow.

Miss M. S. Sorley.
Mrs. Soustter.

William Staunton, Esq.
George Steane, Esq.
Miss E. Stephenson.

D. S. Spens Steuart, Esq.

Sir Daniel Stevenson.

Miss Alice Stewart-Evans.

Miss Nancy Stewart-Evans.

Mrs. Stewart-Mackenzie.

Michael Shaw Stewart, Esq.

Airs. Stockwell.

Miss Josephine D. Storey.

A. K. Stothert, Esq.

John Tabor, Esq.

Mrs. Tabor.

Mrs. S. J. Tanner.

Mrs. Arthur Tharp.

Mrs. Ernest Thesiger.

Miss Thornhill.

Mrs. Churchill Todd.

Mrs. Tomlinson.

Lady Tree.

Miss Helen Turner.

C. Tweedale, Esq.

Mrs. Tyhurst.

Dr. Margaret Vivian.

La Marquise de Vista Bella

W. H. H. Walker, Esq.

Mrs. A. Walter.

Mrs. F. M. Walter.

Frances, Countess of
Warwick.

Miss G. Warren.

Miss M. Watts.

The Lady Wharton.

Mrs. Whitney.

Mrs. Bell Whyte.

Mrs. Z. Winant._

lVI. Wineburgh, Esq.

Mrs. de Wolff.

Mrs. J. L. W00d.

F. Woodrow, Esq.

Miss M. K. Woods.

Mrs. Shirley Woolmer.

Miss Wright.

NIrs. Wright.

Lady Yarrow.

lWrs. Zinovieﬁ.

 




 

The Animal Defence and

Anti-Vivisection Society.

 

REPORT

FOR THE YEAR 1933.

 

l933.—Y0ur Council have pleasure in presenting the
report of the principal activities of your Society. The
many-sidedness of the work is apparent to all who follow
the events recorded and, in the words of the founder of
the Society, are the outcome of a conviction that “ any
one aspect of animal protection, isolated from the rest,
is feeble, but all together make for strength.”

Year of New Laws for the Protection of Animals.——-
The Bill to provide for the humane slaughter of animals
in England passed second reading in the House of
Commons on April 7th. It became law on July 28th. The
Protection of Birds Bill became law on November 17th;
the Protection of Dogs Bill on May 18th. Under this law
an owner of a dog who has been convicted of cruelty
may be deprived of the right to hold a dog-licence, and
a magistrate can exercise the power of withholding a

licence for any number of years, according to his
discretion.

Abroad, a, new Reich Animal Protection law was
adopted in Germany on November 24th. That law is
worthy of attention because of its wide scOpe of protec~
tion. It is prohibited to inﬂict pain or injury in the
maintenance, care, housing or transport of animals. It is
forbidden to use an animal for training, ﬁlm production,
theatrical or other similar performances, when likely to
cause the animal pain or injury to its health. It is
forbidden to abandon one’s own dOmestic animal with
the object of getting rid of it. It is forbidden to sell
or acquire an inﬁrm, sick or over-worked animal for any
other purpose than that of giving it an immediate and
painless death, to feed poultry forcibly by cramming,
and to kill an animal kept on a fur-farm, otherwise
than, under an anaesthetic or by other painless

9

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

methods. In regard to vivisection, restrictions have been
made which were fully reported in the October-December,
1933, number of Progress To-day. These restrictions will
not protect laboratory animals from pain and misery.

Films : The London County Council and the Licensing
of “ Horriﬁc ” Films.——On June 19th The Duchess of
Hamilton and Miss Lind-af—Hageby addressed the follow-
ing letter to Mr. Ernest M. Dence, Chairman of the

London County Council :——-
The Animal Defence Society.
Sir, -

We understand that the London County Council will to-morrow
consider the report of its Entertainment (Licensing) Committee on
the subject of ﬁlms, and that the amendments suggested wh1ch are
based on the recommendations of the Films Censorship Consultative
Committee set up by the Home Oﬁice will be duly considered by the
London County Council.

We further understand that it is recommended that in regard to
ﬁlms classed by the British Board of Film Censors as “ horriﬁc ”
a notice is to be placed outside cinemas bearing the words “ This
ﬁlm is unsuitable for children.”

In reference to this matter we beg to draw your attention to the
demoralising and degrading inﬂuence not only on children but on
adults, of certain ﬁlms featuring animals, in which violence, killing
and cruelty are the predominant elements. Such ﬁlms have lately
been shown in London, and are now being shown, and we earnestly
submit that such ﬁlms should not be licensed for exhibition.

We would especially draw your attention to a ﬁlm entitled
Nagana recently shown, a jungle melodrama, which according to
the journal The Cinema of March 15th, 1933, showed “ scenes of
sickening cruelty ” and “ sensational pictures of wild animals in
ferocious mortal combat, sensation being painfully enhanced by
agonised screams of maddened beasts either loosed upon each
other or pinioned for purpose of extracting blood or serum.” After
stating that at various stages “ we look upon crocodiles, tigers,
lions and leopards threshing in furious ﬁght, limb or jaw locked
in that last relentless grip which spells hideous pain to bothgand
agonising death to the vanquished,” The Cinema writes that “ we
must deplore the unnecessary suffering to animals ”‘ and “ although
the redder—blooded patron will doubtless respond to its brutal
ferocity there will surely be many more who will turn from certain
sequences in sheer nausea.” _, .
. Another ﬁlm now being shown in London (Plaza Theatre) is. King
of the Jungle. Mr. Sydney W. Carroll in the Sunday Times of
June 1‘8th, 1933, wrote of this ﬁlm: “ Why are ﬁlm directors
allowed to show scenes that would not be tolerated for a second
in their actual happening? In this particular ﬁlm there is, for
example, a hideously dreadful ﬁght between an unhappy tiger and
an equally unhappy lion. It must have been organised and staged
as a real event, otherwise it could not have" been photographed.
These two miserable beasts fought each other savagely with des-
perate results. The camera reproduced every disgusting detail of
their ferocity and agony. Now, if a showman in this country—in
real ﬁrsthand exnibition——had given the public such a display of
cruelty of beasts towards each other, he would have been ﬁned

10

 




 

heavily, and probably imprisoned, In what way does the shell of
the camera make any diﬂerence to the ethical aspect“! Here is a
ﬁlm which, while professing to declare itself as championing the
freedom of wild beasts, revels in their torture and imprisonment.”

We have drawn your attention to opinions expressed in the Press
about these two ﬁlms. We could mention many other ﬁlms which
the Licensing Authorities have considered ﬁt for London audiences
which by their exhibition of artiﬁcially-staged bloody ﬁghts between
animals and by the general texture of brutality cannot but exercise
a pernicious inﬂuence. The taste for “ thrills ” based on the inﬂic-
tion of suﬁering on animals, whether domestic, caged, or wild, has
been encouraged and sustained through the licensing of ﬁlms which
should have been suppressed. At a time when the suppression of
crimes of violence constitutes a serious administrative problem it
is doubly to be deplored that the moral aspect of this matter has
received such scant consideration.

We submit in all earnestness that the London County Council
should discourage by every means in its power the exhibition of
ﬁlms such as we have described.

Yours faithfully,

NINA HAMILTON AND BRANDON, President.
L. LIND-AF-HAGEBY, Hon. Director.

The following reply was received :—
London County Council, Chairman’s ROOm,
The County Hall, \Vestminster Bridge, S.E.1.
20th June, 1933.
Dear Madam,

I am directed by Mr. Ernest M. Dence, the Chairman of the
Council, to acknowledge the receipt of the letter of 19th June
signed by Her Grace the Duchess of Hamilton and Brandon and
yourself, and to inform you that he has referred it to the appro-
priate committee of the Council.

Yours faithfully,

R. CRUTTENDEN,
Chairman’s Secretary.
Miss Lind-af—Hageby,
The Animal Defence Society,
35, Old Bond Street, W.1.

On April 18th Mr. Joseph Delmont, a well-known writer
and director of ﬁlms, drew the attention of your Society

to ﬁlms to be shown:—

I beg to draw attention to a ﬁlm called “ King Kong” which
is going to be shown in London,

I am afraid that there is some more cruelty to be shown. There
is also a ﬁlm called “ The Big Cage ” to be shown in the London
cinemas. It is a Universal production (Lammle), and it is said that
very cruel animal ﬁghts and scenes are shown.

Exploiters of animals in connection with ﬁlm work are continually
devising worse methods of cruelty; the latest is almost incredible.

Dogs are doped with opiates which cause them to reel and stagger;
this is done in order to give the impression of their being drunk.
Furthermore, cocaine, or some other strong poison is dropped into
their eyes, dilating the pupils, so as to give -.in the “ close-ups ” a

11

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

deceptive appearance of drunkenness. These poor dogs are then
placed on a platform, thickly coated with soft soap: the animal,
fuddled with poison, tries in vain to move over the slippery surface;
he staggers, slips and falls.

The wretched dog, trained to obedience, hears his master, who is
standing behind the camera, call to him, and he hurts himself badly
trying to advance over the slippery ﬂoor. This cruelty should touch
the heart of every animal lover. The thoughtless public shriek with
pleasure over this comedy! =

Among the juvenile and rough elements in the audience there will
be plenty who will try to imitate, at any rate, the trick with the
soft soap.

Mr. G-renfell, l\/I.P., put a question to the Home
Secretary, whose reply showed the lengths to which ofﬁcial
excuses of wrong practices will go :—-—

Mr. D. Grenfell asked the Home Secretary whether his attention
has been drawn to cinema ﬁlms showing wild beasts spurred and
driven into combat; and whether he will take power to prevent the
release of any ﬁlm depicting a ﬁght between two animals and any
ﬁlm in which cruelty or suffering to any animal has been produced?

Sir J. GILMOUR: The answer to the ﬁrst part of the question is
in the negative; and I learn from the British Board of Film
Censors that no ﬁlm as passed by them contains any such incident.
As to the second part of the question, I would refer to the answer
which my right hon. Friend, the Under-Secretary gave on the 1st
instant to my hon. Friend the Member for East Dorset (Mr. Hall~
Caine). I am informed that the Board are giving special attention
to all animal ﬁlms produced abroad, that no such ﬁlm as passed by
the board depicts a ﬁght between two animals, and that, where it
is obvious cruelty or restraint amounting to cruelty has been involved
in the production of a particular incident, that incident is not passed
by the Board,

Humane and Inhumane Methods of Destroying
Dogs and Cats.——-Your Society has for many years felt
the urgent need of investigation of methods used to kill
animals in homes and institutions for “lost ” and
unwanted dogs and cats. Evidence had shown that many
undesirable methods of killing are in use; that there is
ignorance, neglect and cruelty caused by lack of care and
knowledge; that there is urgent need for study and
revision of the whole subject.

On January 10th the newspapers reported a case
which emphasised the need for action and co-operation.
Three officials of the Birmingham Branch of the
R.S.P.C.A. had appeared before the Birmingham
Stipendiary Magistrate on summonses alleging cruelty.
The case related to the killing of dogs by exhaust gas
from a motor-car, and the prosecution alleged that great
suffering had been caused. The summonses had been
issued on charges made by Mr. Thomas Schoﬁeld, of
Birmingham, a butcher.

12




In giving evidence at the beginning of the case Mr. Schoﬁeld
stated that he had seen various acts of cruelty from a window of
his house which overlooked the garden. On August 23rd, he said,
he had heard a dog screaming for about ﬁve minutes, and he had
complained to one of the inSpectors. In September, he stated, he
had seen one of the inspectors drive into the yard with a van and
throw a little brown dog with full force into the oven from a
distance of four yards. The dog “ started screaming as if in
torture ” (The Times, January, 11th). On September 20th, the
witness stated, he had seen an inspector drive into the yard, ﬁll the
oven with fumes, take a white mongrel out of the van, tie a slip-
knot round it and put it in the oven. The witness alleged that he
heard the animal scream for ﬁfteen minutes and that when the
inspector opened the door, the dog, blackened by fumes, attempted.
to crawl out, but was kicked back. The witness further alleged
that on other occasions dogs had been heard to scream in the oven
for ten minutes and for half an hour.

Various witnesses were heard. The defence was a
denial of any cruelty and an alibi in regard to dates and
times. It was also urged for the defence that the howling
of dogs took place during unconsciousness and that the
dogs suffered no distress. Veterinary surgeons and others
gave evidence supporting the opinion that death by this
method was painless and humane. The Stipendiary
Magistrate dismissed the summonses against the
defendants and granted the defence ten guineas costs.
A letter appeared in The Times over the signatures of
Sir Robert Gower, Lord Danesfort and Lt.-Ool. T. O». R.
Moore representing the Council of the R.S.P.C.A. This
letter was a defence of the method used in Birmingham,
and stated that after the application of the gas “ in about
two to two and a-half minutes the animal staggers and
collapses unconscious,” and asserted that after uncon—
sciousness has supervened the animal may sometimes howl
or scream ”for a few seconds. The letter went on to
mention a number of veterinary and other authorities
who considered the method humane.

On January 14th the Duchess of Hamilton and Miss
Lind-af—Hageby wrote to Sir Robert Gower a letter in
which the following statement was made :-——

This method, as described during the hearing of the case, cannot,
in our view, be considered humane, and we trust that you will take
steps to suppress it.

The proportion of carbon-monoxide contained in the exhaust gases
from a motor-car shows considerable variability, and these gases
contain other ingredients calculated to cause pain. Moreover, the
susceptibility of individual animals to the effect of gases varies
greatly, and their administration in the manner described would be
likely, in many cases, to cause great suffering.

Some years ago we investigated the possibility, from the humane
point of view, of recommending carbon-monoxide administered in a
closed chamber and obtained from the exhaust-pipe of a motor-car,

13

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

as a lethalising agent, and we came to the deﬁnite conclusion that
it was unsuitable for the purpose. We ﬁnd that our opinion has
recently been endorsed by the City Analyst in Birmingham, Mr.
H. H. Bagnall, who stated that: “ This method of killing animals
is most inhuman, uncertain and unscientiﬁc,” and added: “ In view
of the fact that painless, speedy and certain methods exist for
killing animals, the method alleged to be used is an unnecessarily
cruel and slow one.”

In his reply Sir Robert Gower referred to the “ eminent
specialists ” who had expressed approval of the method,
and stated that Mr. Bagnall had relied on second-hand
evidence. Sir Robert Gower added that no member of
the R.S.P.C.A. Council would for one moment tolerate the
use of any method for the killing of animals concerning
the painlessness of which there was a shadow of doubt.

Methods of Lethalising Dags and Cats should not fall
below the Principles of Humane Slaughter. In an article
which appeared in Progress To-day of J anuary-March,
1933, your President and Hon. Director wrote :—- '

It will be noticed that in their letter to The Times, Sir Robert
Grower, Lord Danesfort and Lt.-Colonel Moore stated, “ After the
animal is completely unconscious it may sometimes h0wl or scream
for a few seconds.”

This statement cannot be accepted: a completely unconscious dog
does not howl or scream.

They state that, “ In three to three-and-a-half minutes from the
commencement of the operation the animal is dead.” The point in
question is: When is the animal insensible to pain and distress,
mental and physical ‘3

After all, the object of the Humane Slaughter campaign, which
has made so much progress in various countries, is to ensure in-
stantaneous unconsciousness at the time when life is taken. Should
we, in the killing of dogs, be content with methods that fall below
the standard of humane slaughter? When pigs are properly
slaughtered there is no screaming. .

Anyone conversant with motor car construction. and the behaviour
of motor cars knows that the composition of the fumes varies in
accordance with the mixture used, the state of the carburettor,
temperature, quality of oil, etc. To rely on the fumes of a motor
car for the humane destruction of dogs is to rely on something very
variable and very unreliable.

The maintenance of the method because animal protection societies
in other parts of the world use it does not strengthen the case.
All kinds of unsuitable methods for destroying animals have been
employed. by animal protection societies, and- some “ homes” for
animals have not been distinguished by humanity or care in the
choice and application of death-dealing methods.

From personal observation'of various methods of destroying dogs
we are fully aware of the difﬁculties and the inadequacies in the
methods used. The whole matter calls for searching inquiry.

 

Conference Called.——Your Society arranged a Confer—
ence onthe subject of Humane and Inhumane Methods of
Destroylng Dogs and Cats. It was held at the Central

14




Hall, Westminster, on June 14th. Invitations were sent
out widely. The methods of destruction to be considered
were: the use of exhaust gas from motor-cars, the use of
coal gas, chloroform, electrocution, the use of narcotics
and poisons, shooting and the construction and manage—
ment of lethal chambers and boxes. Twenty-seven societies
and institutions sent representatives.

Amongst the societies and institutions represented were
the following: The Battersea Home for Dogs (by the
Secretary), the National Canine Defence League (by Mr.
C. H. Johns, the Secretary), Our Dumb Friends’ League
(by the President, the Rev. B. G. Bourchier), Our Dumb
Friends’ League Animals’ Hospital (by Captain H. V.
Fenn, Resident Manager), the R.S.P.C.A. Council (by
Lt.-Col. Moore, M.P., Mr. S. G. Polhill and Mr. Paddison).
R.S.P.C.A. Branches: Crystal Palace District (by Miss
S. D. Whitten, Hon. Sec), Chiswick and District (by
Mrs. Hugh Marley, Hon. Sec), Birmingham and District,
Liverpool Cats’ Shelter (by Miss Agnes Harley), Horsham
Auxiliary (by Sir Ewart Greeves and Miss Pigott),
Shropshire Branch (by Miss Edith Ward), R.S.P.C.A.
Mayhew Home for Cats and Dogs (by Miss Florence Frost),
Animal Rescue League of. the R.S.P.C.A., City Road,
London (by the Manager), the National Council for Animal
\Velfare (by Commander Cather, Miss Dorothy Barr,
Miss Yvonne Stott and Miss Mason), the Animals’ Help
Society, Goldhawk Road (by the Misses Allport), the
National Council of Women, Committee for the Humane
Treatment of Animals (by Miss Brodie-Hall), the
National Anti-Vivisection Society (by the Director, the
Hon. Stephen Coleridge), the Ulster Society for Protection
of Animals, Belfast (by Mrs. F. M. Holmes, Hon. Sec),
People’s Dispensary for Sick Animals, Sanatorium, Ilford
(by Mr. N. J. Adam), Putney Animal Welfare Society (by
Mrs. Doubleday), Clapton and District Anti-Vivisection
Society (by Mrs. Beddow Bayly), Clacton and District
A‘nti-Vivisection Society (by Mr. Emary), Twin City
Humane Society, Ontario, Canada (by Major Heather),
Pit Ponies’ Protection Society (by Mr. D. Jeffrey Williams,
Hon. See), the League for the Prohibition of Cruel Sports
(by Mr. Alastair Alpin MacGregor).

The Duchess of Hamilton took the chair, and the
speakers were: Miss Lind—af-Hageby, Lt.-Col. Wakeﬁeld
Rainey, Rev. B. G. Bourchier, Sir James Douglas, Lt.-Col.
Moore, M.P., Miss Dubois, Major Heather, Mr. Grifﬁths,
Mrs. Hedley Thomson, IMrs, Avery, Mr. Alastair Alpin
MacGregor, Mrs. Dudley Ward, Miss Edith Ward, Mrs.

15

 




 

 

 

Holmes, Mrs. Pinto Leite, and Dr. EstcourtDswald.
Amongst those present and on the platform were:
Squadron-Leader the Marquis of Clydesdale, M.P., the
Duchess of Grafton, Lady Clifford Cory, Mr. Emary,
Mr. Yusuf Ali, Mr. Harold Child, the Hon. Stephen
Coleridge, the Baroness Avanzo, Air-Commander and Mrs.
Fellowes, the Rt. Hon. George Lambert and Mrs. Lambert,
Mrs. Heather, Dr. John Shaw, Dr. Beddow Bayly, Lady
Yarrow, Miss B. C. Delius, Mr. Arthur Glasgow,
Mrs. Bayley-Worthington, Lady Blomﬁeld, Miss Lettice
iA/lacnaghten, Mrs. Angus Macnaghten, Commander Cather,
Mr. H. R. Spurrier, Mr. R. O. P. Paddison, Mr. S. G.
Polhill, Miss Nora Logan, Mrs. M. E. Mordan (Secretary
of the Geneva International Humanitarian Bureau), and
Miss L. K. Schartau (Secretary of the Animal Defence
Society).

Messages containing observations and records of experience of?
great value were sent byz—«Professor Linton, of the Royal (Dick)
Veterinary College, Edinburgh; Dr. Med. Vet. Hugo Heiss, Ober-
Veterinarrat and Director of Slaughterhouses of Straubing; Lt.—Col.
Olivetti of Turin; Mr. James Cruikshank, of New York; Dr. Foveau
de Courmelles, of Paris; Miss Clara de Galleani, of Genoa; General
von Kuhlwein, of Berlin; Mathilde, Baroness von Freytag-Loring-
hoven, of Weimar; Dr. Jules Bluhl, of Brussels; Herr Carl Kraemer,
of Berlin; Fraulein Clara Oesterlen, of Stuttgart; Redaktor G.
Halfdan Liander, of Stockholm; Mr. E. Beam, Inspector Twin City
. Humane Society, of Kitchener, Ontario; Mr. Albert E.
Bingham, of Calgary, Canada; Admiral Crawford Conybeare,
of Bordighera; Monsieur Duranton de Magny, of Nimes;
Madame Duchon—Doris, of Perigueux; Monsieur Rzené Labroutil, of
Le Vaugareau—Angers; Miss J. Barker, of the Dogs’ Home, Shefﬁeld;
Mrs. Callender, of Edinburgh; Miss Edith L. Apted, of London;
Mr. Alfred Briscoe, of Carlisle; Miss Netta Ivory, of Edinburgh;
Miss Ethel Allport, of London; Miss C. S. Kennedy, Superintendent
of the North London Dogs’ Home, and Mrs. Osborne Leonard.

Amongst those who sent messages expressing regret at inability
to be present and good wishes were: the Duke of Hamilton, the
Duchess of Atholl, the Duchess of Portland, the Earl and Countess
of Shaftesbury, Nina, Countess of Seaﬁeld, the Dowager Countess
d’Arcy, Lady Brassey, the Dowager Countess of Plymouth, Marshal of
the Royal Air Force, Lord Trenchard, Sir Robert Gower, M.P., Viscount
Chaplin, Major Sir Arthur Lushington, Dame Sybil Thorndike, O.B.E,.
Miss Gladys Cooper, Dame Henrietta Barnett, O.B.E., Major Astor.
Miss Constance Andrews, the Rev. F. C, Baker, Mrs. Mount Batten.
Col. and Mrs. Caldwell, Mrs. Clive, Mrs. Penn Gaskell, Mrs. and
Miss Glasgow, the Rev. Ethelbert Goodchild, Mr. S. Heginbottom,
Mr. W. A. Sibley (Headmaster of Wycliffe College), Canon Berry,
Sir Philip Sassoon, Mr. Richard Morse (Editor of Country Life
Diary), Madame Sarah Grand, Lady Lumb, the Mayor of Colchester.
Lord and Lady Howard of Penrith, Mr. Arthur Middleton, of
Manchester, Mrs. John Galsworthy, Lady Coote, Sir Abe Bailey,
Brig—General Sir Henry Page-Croft, M.P., Mr. Geoffrey Gilbey,
Lord Wakeﬁeld, Dame Louisa Lumsden, O.B.E., Mr. Lyndesay
Langwill (sec., Scottish S.P.C.A.), Sir John Sumner, Lady Lees,

16

 




 

Mr. Malcolm MacDonald, M.P., Mrs. Arthur Tharp, Lady Rolleston,
Mrs. Ernest Law, Lady Kitty Ritson, the Hon. Juliet Gardner,
Major Tuﬁnell, Mr. and Mrs. Spens Steuart, Miss Schuster, Mrs.
Wilson (Hon. Sec. Welwyn Garden City Auxiliary, R.S.P.C.A.),
Mrs. Wilkins (Hon. Sea, Bidhampton Auxiliary, R.S.P.C.A.), Mrs.
R. Fox Strangeways (Hon. Sec., Alton, Haslemere, Petersﬁeld and
District Branch R.IS.P.C.A.), Mrs. Sivell (Hon. Sec., Animals’ Aid
Society and Welfare Club), Mr. Thomas Eaton (Chief Inspector
Scottish Society for Protection of Animals), Madame du Gast, Pres.
Paris S.P.A., Professor Dr. Johannes Ude of Graz, Oberbaurat Clemens
of Berlin, Miss Eva Blytt, of Oslo, Herr Otto Soltau, of Vienna,
Monsieur Bourlier, of Caen, Stabsintendent Degen of Copenhagen,
Herr Camille Schaufuss, of Meissen, Dr. C. Ciaburri, of Bologna, 1e

Marquis d’Andigné, of Paris, Madame Bastard, of Montpellier and
Mlle. 'l‘zaut, of Paris.

The Urgency of Study and Co-operation. Extracts
from some of the Speeches. The Duchess of Hamilton:
‘We have called this Conference because we feel that
serious doubt has arisen in the public mind in regard to
the methods used for the destruction of dogs and cats.
The subject is of very great importance, for I think we
all realise that, whilst so much love, care and interest is
given to the domestic animals of the household, it is
necessary that we should be assured that when they are
destroyed their lives are taken as painlessly as is possible.

I would here point out that it is not only physical pain
we have to consider, but mental anguish which may be,
and is, caused through faulty methods of procedure.

The thought of a dog or a cat; on whom love and care
have been lavished, who has been a true friend and whose
intelligence has been highly developed, being, in his old
age, or in times of sickness, handed over to be killed by
methods which prolong suffering and distress is very
disturbing.

 

The subject we have before us is a very wide one: it is
intimately connected with the problem of stray dogs and
cats———the so-called “unwanted ” animals, which are
destroyed by thousands and hundreds of thousands in the
large cities of our civilisation. The problem of how to
diminish the number of stray animals thus destroyed is
outside the scope of our Conference to-day, but I say this:
we friends of animals have every reason to feel disquiet
and to seek a limitation of this mass-murder of dogs and
cats.

In regard to methods of killing, we have to consider
agencies used: chemical substances, shooting apparatus,
electric appliances, lethal chambers, and we have also to
consider the human operators, for the best apparatus, the
most elaborate mechanical devices will not sufﬁce to

17

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

prevent cruelty unless the persons in charge of the
operations are really and truly imbuedeith the humane
spirit.

There is always a danger that that spirit may be lacking
when hurry and habit come into operation in the “mass
killing ” of animals.

We have received a large number of statements and
communications giving personal observations and facts,
and I can say, without exaggeration, that it is urgently
necessary that the methods adopted should be critically
examined, that societies and institutes should co-operate
and compare and that certain methods should be
suppressed.

Miss Lind-af—Hageby: Those who work for the
protection of animals are occasionally accused of being
one-sided sentimentalists. \Ne refute this charge and
hold that we are promoting something of vital importance
to civilisation and to peace between the nations. Our
deputation in April, 1932, supported by 1400 Animal
Protection Societies, to the Disarmament Conference in
Geneva laid stress on the importance to human character
of compassion and justice to our non-human fellow-
creatures. Cruelty and brutal treatment of animals are
obstacles to that reﬁnement of the human mind upon
which alone true civilisation and international
co-operation can be built.

We, who are here to-day, are agreed in our opposition
to ill-treatment of animals and in that view we are one
solid group of reformers. To-day we are dealing with
the treatment of animals not by those outside our
movement, but within it. We have invited you to this
Conference in the hope that friendly discussion will result
in useful knowledge, comparison and reform. We are
not engaged in what has disdainfully been called
“drawmg—room animal protection,” but in something
very serious and painful. Like the question of the
slaughter of animals for food, the question of how we
kill dogs and cats is apt to be put aside as something
unpleasant, something we would rather not think about.
In our long struggle for slaughter reform we meet again
and again the happy consumer of steaks and cutlets who
prefers a gastronomical horizon not darkened by thoughts
of the slaughterhouse.

In our efforts to make shelters for unwanted dogs and
cats free from the reproach of callousness, carelessness
and methods whlch cause pain and distress, we meet the

18

 




 

passionate lover of dogs and cats who will listen to no
details of what is being done to their pets in the hour of
death.

“ Dear old Bob was put to sleep last Thursday,’ says
our friend with a sob in her throat. The point is:
Was Bob put to sleep ? Was it painless ? Did he wonder
why his loving human friend had abandoned him and
delivered him into the hands of strange, cold-blooded
executioners? Dogs have great intelligence, strange
intuition, keen sense of smell, premonition of danger;
cats have mental faculties which make some of us humans
appear very dull-witted in comparison.

Now I have in the past seen the killing of dogs and
cats in this and other countries by various methods, and
I can afﬁrm that I have seldom been satisﬁed that the
process was as good as it might be. And so-called
improvements do not always spell real improvements.

Let us face the issue. Whether you take the life of a
strong, healthy bullock or a strong, healthy dog or cat
—-there is difﬁculty and resistance. To put it plainly:
animals do not like to be killed. They are apt to sense
and smell danger. If they do they will resist. They will,
so to speak, make a ﬁght to retain consciousness, and
when consciousness is gone the subconscious will continue
the ﬁght.

As Chairman for many years of the Society for the P1evention of
Premature Burial, I came across astounding facts relating to death
and apparent death. This is something the average person is
ignorant about. I once gave a lecture on the subject and a pers011
in the audience came and showed me her death certiﬁcate. She
had been laid out for two days, after which she revived and became
perfectly well and active. And what I have said 11itl1 1ega1d to
human beings applies to animals, and that is what leads me to
suggest that the mattei is not so simple as many think.

Now it is a shocking thing that so much of 0m protection of
animals should, by force of circumstances, be simpl1 killing them.
With improvement in our methods we might avert a gieat deal of
it. The pioblem of stray animals contains many subsidiary
problems. I once rescued my own adopted tabby cat from the over-
zealous care of 3. Cats’ Home Collector, who, having safely placed
the cat in a basket, and the basket 1n a van, rbefused to open both
until my rise of temper had convinced him of the necessity. Let
us hope these occurrences are very mm.

The ﬁrst method of destruction named on the agenda is “ The
use of exhaust gas from motor ca1s.” I heard a great deal about
this method when I was in America in 1929. .So simple, so cheap, so
much in accordance with an- age relying on the motor-car; but I
did not like it then, and I do not like it now. I have driven cars
and smelt engines for twenty yeais, and I know the variability of
the composition of fumes, depending upon the mixture used, tem
pe1atu1e grade of oil and petrol, the state of the carburettor, etc.

19

,

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Mrs. DUDLEY WARD: I feel inclined to say that I am glad to have
lived to see this day, because this is a meeting which has been wanted
for years. The time is long over-ripe"‘for our getting together in this
matter. I learned the chloroform method from Horace Snow, one of
the greatest humanitarians who ever lived, in 1906. I have only
practised the chloroform method, but I have seen electrocution of
cats and dogs. I have seen the gassing of cats and the chloroforming
of cats and dogs, and the conclusion I have come to is that you will
never beat the chloroform box, properly administered, for cats, and
you will never beat humane shooting for dogs. I consider chloro-
forming of dogs is torture. (“ Hear, hear.”) The other day I found
a caretaker in one of the shelters saying to a large dog in one of
the boxes, “Lie down, darling; lie down,” and the dog was in
anguish. I say, however, that the thesis that a quick death must
always be painless and a slow death must always be painful is
a dangerous one. I doubt whether there is such a thing as humane
instantaneous death, except by shooting. I do not think there is such
a thing as humane instantaneous lethal death or electrocution death.
Never shall I forget the horror of seeing a dog electrocuted; there
was anguish in its eyes. The Snow Box for cats, properly used,
is unbeatable. I have put cats to sleep and they have purred to
the last. When the cat has fallen unconscious you can open the box
lid and arrange the body, which falls as a rule, in a crumpled heap.
The reason you do that is that chloroform stimulates the lungs
artiﬁcially: they are set working at tremendous speed. The cat
becomes unconscious. If you open the box lid to arrange the body,
breathing can be facilitated to suit the lungs, as it were. As I
have said, dogs are bad subjects for chloroform. Shooting is hard
to beat. If you want to see a dog humanely shot go to 97, Kensal
Road. The man rubs a pistol caressingly over the dog’s forehead
and ﬁnds the exact spot. It is a caress, a crack and a crash. It
is deplorable to think that some people pet an animal for years and
then say, “ Oh yes, poor old Bob is put to sleep.” When asked how,
they say: “ Never mind; I am sure it was all right. The Woman
is quite trustworthy.” It is high time we wake up. Let us have a
searchlight on this problem.

Lt.—Col. MOORE, M.P.: I want to thank you very much for asking me
to come here, because I think, if we all put our minds to the problem
and mean to achieve something, we may set in force to-day something
that will be for the lasting beneﬁt of all those smaller animals that
are not catered for under any of the Acts of Parliament at present
in force, or that we are trying to bring into force. I feel in regard
to these various methods for putting to sleep—I am sorry to use
that word—that many, if not most, are humane; but the question
is: when is it appropriate to use them? Conditions and circumstances
vary so much that one must be prepared, I think, to put one or other
of the methods into force as circumstances may dictate. For
instance, in case of an accident, as a result of which a cat or dog
is suﬂering severely, one takes the quickest and most easily avail-
able means of bringing those sufferings to an end. As to comparison
between all the methods stated on the card, it seems to me that,
undoubtedly, one stands out head and shoulders above any of the
others, namely shooting. That we know is completely instantaneous,
if the pistol or gun is properly wielded, and by the right person.
That goes without saying. Furthermore, it is the best method where
speed is a matter of urgency. For instance, in the Animal Rescue
League at Islington where they put to sleep something like 80,000
to 100,000 animals a year, it could not be done except by the

20

 

 




 

 

immediate application of the humane killer; and now that the
Temple Cox people, and various other manufacturers, have devised
weapons so efﬁcient and so effective and suitable for each particular
type of animal, there is no excuse for not using the humane killer,
from the kitten upwards. But there is one objection to it, as to
all methods: no one who loves his pet likes to see it shot. It is a
depressing and distressing event; therefore there must be other means
available, and I think possibly chloroform and electrocution. l.
have seen, I suppose, every system at work and have considered
through, years of experience what is best, the most suitable and
the kindest. As regards exhaust gas, while I have seen the actual
chamber in which the putting to sleep takes place, I have not
actually seen the animal put to death in it. Therefore, I cannot
speak with knowledge, although I am informed by those qualiﬁed
to speak that the method is humane and effective. However, unless
one knows oneself, it is no use advancing an opinion.

Now there is just one point of peculiar importance, and that is
while we may and do recognise that many of these systems are
humane, their humanity largely depends on the character and the
attitude of those applying them. Whatever further steps we take
towards carrying on this meeting to its logical conclusion, I think
one of the items on the agenda must be to insure that in every
case in which men or women are charged with putting animals to
sleep they have the necessary moral character and a genuine love
for and sympathy with animals, so that the preliminary handling
will give no anticipation to the animal of,what is coming.

Miss DUBOIs (Hon. Secretary, Whitechapel Shelter, Our Dumb
Friends’ League): I want to tell you, in a few words, what we do.
Last year we lethalized 13,900 at one branch alone, and I can assure
you that death was painless. We always give a lot of air to start
with, but many people will shut their lethal chamber up at once
and put on the full dose. That is wrong; it makes the animal
struggle and causes bleeding of the nose. The dose should be
given slowly. This applies to dogs as well as cats. I have
lethalized dogs of all sorts, from mastiffs to quite small breeds,
and there has hardly ever been a murmur. We use chloroform only.
Those who bring animals to be destroyed should always be urged
to bring them with an empty stomach. If they are given a meal
just before they are brought, they will struggle. Generally, the
animals we destroy do not struggle because they are nearly all
in an awful state of starvation. If you could see some of them
you would be glad they were put out of their misery. Do impress
on people to give air when administering chloroform and ask that
those who bring their pets do not give them a good meal as a
ﬁnal joy.

Mr. H. W. GRIFFITHS, M.R1.C.V.S., of Birmingham: It gives me
very great pleasure to accept the invitation to come here to join
in this Conference and to offer, if I can, any slight contribution to
a subject which I think is of paramount importance. I have chosen
as a contribution a subject which is very controversial. I choose
it because I have had some experience and an opportunity of
observing many hundreds of cases under the inﬂuence of gas.
I refer to carbon monoxide. My examinations have been in
connection with carbon monoxide as obtained from coal-gas and
carbon monoxide as puriﬁed and obtained from the exhaust fumes
of cars. When speaking of exhaust gases I always mean puriﬁed
exhaust gas. The method of puriﬁcation is by carrying the exhaust

21

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

gas through two 5~gallon drums of water, through a cylinder
containing cotton-wool and thence to the chamber in which the
animal is put, the chamber being, of course, by reason of this,
some distance away from the car. A number of tests have been taken.

We ﬁnd that the temperature of the chamber never varies
more than 1 per cent. from the temperature of the atmosphere.
That is by reason of the cooling of the mixture and the purifying
of it. At all times the chamber is perfectly clear. There is no
smoke or carbon dioxide of any sort or description. The animal
.is put into the chamber which usually is of the size of about
32 cubic feet. It is ventilated. On the top of the chamber is an
air vent. There are two induction pipes at the bottom and an
electric fan in the chamber. By this means the whole of the
air can be changed in two minutes. The chamber is lighted from
within and has a large window through which we are able to
observe any movement or signs of fright or apprehension on the
part of the animal. From the time the animal is put into the
chamber until it drops unconscious, it is totally—I emphasise this
“unaware of the existence of any nauseating or discomforting
mixture. I have had a chamber charged for ﬁve minutes and
opened it to put my head in to ascertain what the animal would
feel if he stayed as long as ﬁve minutes.

Now we come to the duration. We consider the ideal time to
produce unconsciousness roughly to be about two minutes. With
this method we can produce it in twenty seconds, but we consider
that the induction stage should be slow: that the animal should
always, at all times, remain unaware of the presence of the
mixture, and thus our ideal time is, roughly, about two minutes.

‘Much has been said about the fright or fear which the animal
meets with between the time he is put into the chamber and the
time he collapses. I have never yet, with carbon monoxide as
obtained from exhaust fumes of cars, seen an animal try to
escape. He has plenty of room to run round. He will walk and
come up to you if you tap the windowﬁ"

Mrs. AVERY (Hon. Secretary, Cats’ Protection League): I have
an appeal to make to the members of the Conference and to the
members of the audience during the course of the deliberations on
this very interesting subject. I wish to speak on the subject of
coal-gas in relation to stray cats. . .The Cats’ Protection League has
been in existence for ﬁve years, and for the past three years we have
been studying the question very earnestly. I have seen and studied
six methods of putting animals to death, but the real point I want
to come to is, that when you are dealing with the stray cat problem
you are dealing with something that calls for other qualities than
those demanded by the domestic pet. It goes Without saying in
an assembly such as this that we think of the animal ﬁrst, but when
we have to deal with over 100 stray cats in one day, with that
paramount idea before us, we have to think of economy, of speed
and, above all, we have to think of some agent which is not entirely
dependent upon the operator. In other words, we want something
fool-proof. And I will tell you why. We are very anxious to

 

 

 

*The above extract from the speech by Mr. Grifﬁths, who came to the
conference to defend the motor car exhaust-fume method of killing animals,
has been printed with a desire to show fairness, but it should be noted that a
subsequent report on the method used in Birmingham, and published by your
Society, describes “ evident distress ” which continued for nearly two minutes
before a dog fell on his side and began to how]. The method is open to
grave objections on humanitarian grounds.

(3”
u...

 

 

 




 

establish in all the out—of-the-way places where there are no existing
shelters some method of dealing with stray cats. . . I do want to
put a plea for that side of the question before the Conference,
remembering it is a matter of enormous difﬁculty. You are dealing
with numbers. And not only that; you are dealing with semi-wild
animals. Anyone who has had any experience of rescuing homeless
and stray cats will know that some of them are more dangerous to
handle than tigers. We have to take that into consideration. . .
Thus I urge that this Conference should pay special attention not
only to the domestic animal—in hundreds of cases the domestic
animal belonging to the owner who can aﬁord to pay is already
catered for—but the friendless, the wild animal so to speak, who
needs somebody to devote attention to a solution of the problem,
so that in future it will be possible to provide the necessary means
in various towns and villages, which means must not be too costly
and, above all, must be fool-proof.

Valuable contributions to the consideration of the
problem of efﬁcient lethalisation recording experience,
methods and technique were sent to the Conference by
Dr. Med. Vet. Hugo Heiss, of Bavaria, Professor R. G.
Linton, M.R.C.V.S., of the Royal (Dick) Veterinary College,
Edinburgh, Mr. James H. Cruikshank, of New York,
General von Kuhlwein, of Berlin, Mr. Albert Bingham,
of Calgary Humane Society, Canada, Lt.-Col. Olivetti, of
Turin, Mr. Alfred Briscoe, of Carlisle, Miss Kennedy, of
the North London Dogs’ Home, Miss Ethel Allport, of
London, Dr. Jules Ruhl, of Anderlecht, Belgium, Herr
Carl Kraemer, of the Berlin Animal Protection Society,
Signorina Clara de Galleani, of Genoa, Fraulein Clara
Oesterlen, of Stuttgart, the Baroness Mathilde von Freytag
Loringhoven, of Weimar, etc.

Press Reports of the Conference—Reports and notices
of the Conference appeared in The Times (June 17th),
Manchester Guardian (June 15th), Our’Dogs (June 23rd),
the Daily Express and the Daily Mirror. Notices specifying
the objects of the Conference and drawing: public atten-
tion to it had previously appeared in the Daily Mirror,
the Daily Herald (Mr. Hannen Swaffer), the Birmingham
Post, the Glasgow Herald, the )Bulletinvand Scots ,2 Pictorial,
the“ Nottingham Guardian, the Glasgow N ews, the South
Wales’ Echo and Evening Express, the. Bayswater
Chronicle, etc. A verbatim report was taken of the pro-
ceedings. V ' ’ .

Interesting and informative articles and letters on the
subject of lethalisation were published in Progress To-day.

The value of the Conference was apparent by the keen
interest, discussion and comparison aroused, and your
Council feel that an important step tQWQIdS reform and-
(SQ—ordination was taken.

23

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The Bill to Provide for the Humane Slaughter of
Animals in England. Recalling some of the Events in
the Long Struggle of the Past. As has already been
stated, an Act to Provide for the Humane Slaughter of
Animals in England became law in July, 1933. Your
Society engaged once again in strenuous efforts to give
public and parliamentary support to this Bill, which was
one of a series of attempts to enforce humane slaughter.
There Was much lobbying in the House arranged by your
Society. The Act, as it stands, is not satisfactory owing
to the partially successful opposition by the organised
Meat Trade and Jewish interestsﬁi

 

In view of the need of perspective and of adequate
information in regard to the long battle and strenuous
ﬁght for Slaughter Reform in which your Society has
been engaged for many years, preparations were made
in 1933 for the issue of a volume descriptive of the work
undertaken. It is well to recall, at this time, some of the
principal events.

Ever since the foundation of the Society there has been
continuous work to make known the need of reform, to
expose the cruelties, and show, by practical demonstration
the better way. The building of the Model Abattoir at
Letchworth was the most important contribution to the
constructive work for humane and hygienic slaughter.

In 1909, at the time of» the great International Congress, a
demonstration of humane slaughter was held at Clapham and a
humane exhibition arranged at the Caxton Hall. Throughout 1910
by means of publications, lectures and meetings your Society
advocated humane slaughter, the abolition of private slaughter-
houses and the introduction of humanely conducted and sanitary
public abattoirs. The work of this Society was recognised in
a gracious letter from the Dowager Queen of Sweden who expressed
her great interest and the hope that “ the efforts to introduce
painless methods of slaughter will meet with increasing success.”

Many slaughter reform meetings were held that year. Slaughter
houses in England and public abattoirs on the Continent were
visited by Miss Lind~af-Hageby, Miss Schartau, Miss Damer Dawson
and Miss Delius. In 1912 a rousing public meeting was held at the
Caxton Hall, Supported by a large number of Members of Parliament
and attended by many butchers. There was an exhibition of skulls,
heads of hullocks, pigs and humane implements. The speakers
included the late Sir George Greenwood, M.P., Mrs. Despard, Mr.
0. Cash (author of 0m- Slaughterhouse System) and Mr. Ernest Bell,
There were many interruptions, but the resolution was carried and the
Press gave good reports. Throughout the following years the Animal

 

* On May 1st a new Humane Slaughter Law was adopted in Germany. All
animals must be stunned before being bled. The penalty of infringement is
6 months’ imprisonment. In April Prussia adopted regulations enforcing
humane killing of ﬁsh, shell ﬁsh and frogs, See Progress To-day April-June,
1933. ‘ ' ‘ '

24.

 




 

Defence Society carried on a publicity campaign to make known
to butchers the use and advantages of humane killers and its
own particular instrument known as the Animal Defence Society’s
Humane Killer. Hundreds of these were given away and sold.
In 1913 the Irish Board of Agriculture, after testing the ADS
Killer, ofﬁcially recommended it for use in slaughterhouses in
Ireland. In 1914, with the outbreak of the War, the Society’s
Humane Killer was put to merciful use in the destruction of
badly wounded and diseased war-horses. It was employed by the
staff of the Society in the three veterinary hospitals for wounded
horses established by the Society in France. Gifts of the Society’s
humane killers were made to other veterinary hospitals
throughout the war. In 1917 a Conference on humane slaughter
was organised by the Society at Prince’s Hotel, London, with an
exhibition of instruments. In 1921 there was another Conference
on humane slaughter at 35, Old Bond Street. At that time the
economic pressure policy initiated by your Society, by which house-
keepers and all who bought meat were induced to demand
guarantees that the meat sold to them should be derived from
animals humanely killed, was well to the fore. At this Conference
Miss Lind-af—Hageby described the Stockholm Abattoir and its
rules for kindness to animals; the speakers included the Duchess
of Hamilton, who spoke on the Society’s decision to stimulate
interest by large advertisements in the Press, the Rev. B. G.
Bourchier, the Countess of Plymouth, Dr. Fergie Woods and
Mr. R. B. Cuninghame Graham, who drew attention to a report in the
daily papers that the King, on being shown a humane killer at
the Islington Cattle Show, had expressed the opinion that the
Killer should be in general use. Reports of this Conference
appeared in The Times, the Morning Post, the Daily Telegraph, the
Star, the Pall Mall Gazette, the Daily Herald, the Scotsman, the
Jewish Chronicle, the Manchester Guardian, and other papers.

The year 1922 was marked by specially intensive work for
Slaughter Reform.

The Economic PreSSure Policy was advanced by wholecolumn
advertisements in the Press appealing to women. Advertisements
appeared in the Morning Post; the Daily Mail; the Manchester
Guardian; The Times; the Westminster Gazette; The Vote and in
Time and Tide. They contained the following request :—

We ask you to pledge yourself to obtain a guarantee from your
butcher that the home-killed meat you buy is derived frOm animals
stunned by humane and mechanically-operated instruments. Econ-
omic pressure and public opiniOn can achieve this reform.

The effectiveness of the movement to enlist women, as
housekeepers and buyers of meat, on the side of reform
was clearly demonstrated—not least by the resentment
shown by those who represent organised opposition to all
reform in the slaughter of animals. On January 26th
The Meat Trades Journal contained the following :—~

In the Daily Mail of Saturday last there is an advertisement of
the Animal Defence and Anti-Vivisection Society, in which an
appeal is made to women to obtain a guarantee from their butcher
that the home—killed meat they buy is derived from animals on
which the humane killer has been used. If this is refused, we
presume the Society would like the trader to be boycotted, a form

25

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of intimidation hateful to all fair-minded people. The advertise-
ment further frankly states: —~“ Our ultimate object is to ensure

the abolition of private slaughter houses. ”

The Inﬂuence of Women. ~—-A letter urging buyers of Meat. to
demand a pledge of humane slaughter, signed by the Duchess of
Hamilton, the Countess of Plymouth, Mrs. Reginald McKenna,
Madame Sarah Grand, Mrs. Mona Caird, Mrs. Baillie Weavei, Miss
Abadam, Mrs. Pethick Lawrence, Miss St. John Partridge and Miss
Lind- af— -Hageby was sent to 107 newspapers in February and
published in The Manchester Guardian, The Westminster Gazette,
The Yorkshire Observer, The Aberdeen Free Press, The Yorkshire
Herald, The Leeds Mercury, Horse and Hound, The Liverpool
Courier, The Newcastle Chronicle, The Nottingham Independent, The
Daily Mail, Theosophy, Time and Tide, Nottingham Journal, The
South Wales News, The Western Mail, Herts Advertiser, Islington
Gazette, and other papers.

In July, 192-2, the Duchess of Hamilton and Miss Lind—af-
Hageby visited the Islington Slaughterhouse, which is
under the control of the Corporation of the City of
London. Permission to enter this slaughterhouse was
somewhat reluctantly accorded by ‘the Superintendent,
who pointed out to the visitors that in according such
permission he was granting a privilege and not acceding
a right. At Islington they saw four bullocks killed by
the Jewish method, and were startled and impressed by
the cruelty of that method. The primitive conditions of
this slaughterhouse—Which is the only public one in
London—permitted living bullocks to‘stand waiting their
doom on ﬂoors running with blood, and amid the carcases
of the freshly slain—a fact to which your President and
Honorary Director repeatedly gave publicity. It is
est1matcd that in this slaughterhouse 75 to 80 per cent.
of the cattle slaughtered are killed by the Jewish method.

Many visits were paid 'to abattoirs that year:—

On September 19th Miss Lind-af-Hageby and Miss Delius visited
one'uof thepublic. abattoirs in Geneva, with the object of studying
methods of slaughter in use in Switzerland; On October 3rd Miss
Lind- af- -Hageby, Miss Logan and Miss Delius visited the abattoii
in Berne, where they weie received in the most hospitable and
friendly manner by Dr. Noyer.

on October 4th the same members of youi Council paid a visit
to; the abattoir at Bale, where the Director, Dr Unger, personally
showed them the v ork proceeding in the slaughtering halls and
various types othumane killers. The same readiness to affo1d every
facility for inspection and the same friendly interest in the move-
ment for humane slaughter was shown. In Swiss slaughterhouses
the directors acknowledge the right of the public to inspect and

criticise institutions where the food of the people is prepared, and
where the treatment of animals is a matter for humanitarian and

legal consideration.

An article by Miss Lind- af- -Hageby, describing the abattoir in
Berne and pointing out that Switzerland has passed a law making
obligatory the stunning of all animals before bleeding them, was

published in the Daily Herald.
26

 

 

 




 

On October 25th the Duchess of Hamilton, Miss Lind-af-Hageby
and Mr. Compton-Rickett visited the Municipal slaughterhouse of
Carlisle, where they were received by the Superintendent, Mr. John
Dodds, Bullocks and pigs were humanely killed in their presence,
and they were most favourably impressed by the excellent arrange-
ments in that s1aughterhouse—humanitarian and hygienic—which
were largely due to the inﬂuence of Mr. John Dodds, and which did
credit to the city of Carlisle.

On October 31st the Duchess of Hamilton and Miss Lind-af-Hageby
visited the public slaughterhouse of Edinburgh, where they were
received by the Superintendent, and saw the slaughter of cattle by
the Jewish method and by the poleaxe, as Well as the slaughter of a
number of sheep by the knife alone. Great hostility was evinced in
this slaughterhouse towards the idea of humane slaughter. A man
was told oﬁ" to poleaxe some cattle to show the superiority of the
poleaxe, and in the pig department there was evident opposition. Time
passed and to a great extent owing to the erection of the Abattoir
at Letchworth, this opposition changed to respect, and there came a
time when the very same man who had poleaxed in opposition to
the use of the mechanical humane killer came to Letchworth to
demonstrate in the Model Abattoir the superiority of the mechanical
instrument !

The Glasgow public slaughterhouse was also visited by the
President and Hon. Director, who were received with much friendliness
by Baillie Brechin. In 1933 many demonstrations. of humane slaughter-
were arranged, amongst them one at Ferne, the residence of the Duke
and Duchess of Hamilton, one at Strathaven, Scotland, another
at Clapham, London, at the slaughterhouse of Mr. R. C. Hammett.
Reports of this demonstration appeared in the Morning Post and
Westminster Gazette.

At that time hostile members of the Meat Trade were
in the habit of arguing that meat derived from humanely
killed animals was of a vastly inferior quality to that
of animals killed by the poleaxe or knife alone. It is
therefore of interest to recall that the meat derived from
the Clapham demonstration was exhibited and sold at
Harrods Stores. By a Special arrangement the meat was
displayed, together with your Society’s Humane Killer, with
a prominent notice that the animals had been humanely
killed. There was the greatest demand for the meat on
the part of members of your Society, who had been
notiﬁed of the sale, and of the public, and Harrods
received so many orders for humaner killed meat that
the demand greatly exceeded the supply. Notices of this
exhibition and sale appeared in the Morning Post, the
Daily Telegraph and the Westminster Gazette.

Public Demonstrations and Hostility. A great public
meeting was held in July in the Central Hall, Westminster,
supported by a number of Members of Parliament. The
late Sir Edward Marshall Hall, K.C., was amongst the
speakers on this occasion, and messages of sympathy were

27

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

sent by Mr. Thomas Hardy, Mr. John Galsworthy, the
BishOp of London, Dean Inge, the Rev. Dr. Fleming, and
others. The Press published long detailed and sympathetlc
reports of this meeting, and leading articles appeared in
the Morning Post and Daily News. A letter by the
Duchess of Hamilton, published in The Times, was
followed by a leading article in that paper supporting
your Society ’s campaign. At that time further large
advertisements demanding Slaughter Reform were inserted
in the Press, and there were many replies and much
comment by the hostile section of the Meat Trade. Another
large public meeting was held at the Central Hall,
W'estminster, on October 18th. The Meat Trade had been
invited to take part in the discussion.

The meeting was crowded and the opposition was present in
full force. There was an exhibition of skulls and tanned foreheads
showing many holes caused by the poleaxe, and of slaughter imple-
ments. The Duchess of Hamilton took the chair, and the speakers on
the side of Slaughter Reform were Miss Lind-af—Hageby, Mr. John
Dodds, Miss Constance Warner and Mr. J. Alexander. Speakers
on the opposition side were invited to the platform, and included
Mr. Miseldene, Organising Secretary of the J ourneymen Butchers’
Federation of Great Britain; Mr. Goad, London Retail Meat
Traders’ Association; Councillor John Edwards, Past President
of that Association; Mr. D. Carmichael, of the London Trades
Council.

In spite of the strong and sometimes bitter opposition raised, the
following Resolution was carried by an overwhelming majority:-—-
“ That this meeting calls upon the Government to introduce
legislation making the use of mechanically-operated killers in the
slaughter of animals compulsory throughout the country.”

Reports of the meeting and discussion appeared in The Times,
the Morning Post, the Daily News and other papers. An ill-
tempered attack on the meeting appeared in the Meat Trades
Journal of October 26th in the form of a letter by Mr. Miseldene,
in which the supporters of the meeting were charged with being
vegetarians, with uttering “ gross fallacies ” and “ mendacious
absurdities,” with producing “ sob-stuﬁ,” “ wicked and monstrous
falsehoods,” and with being “ quacks and Charlatans.” On
November 2nd a reply by Miss Lind-af—Hageby appeared in the
Meat Trades Journal, in which she pointed out that the discourtesy
of the attack was striking in View of the fact that the meeting
arose out of a request, on behalf of the members of the Meat Trade,
to be given an opportunity to answer statements made by the
Society, and that Mr. Miseldene had himself accepted the
hospitality of the Society’s platform. She asked whether Mr.
Miseldene seriously contended that the Society had fabricated
the foreheads of cattle showing many holes from the poleaxe
which were exhibited. Mr. Miseldene did not reply, or attempt
to justify his gross mis-statements. The same number of the
Meat Trades Journal contained an excellent letter by Mr. John
Dodds, in which he gave further facts with regard to the cruelty
of the use of the poleaxe and the number of blows struck.

28

 

 




 

On November 10th over a thousand people attended a
Slaughter Reform meeting of your Society organised by
Miss Constance Warner in Tonbridge.

At the General Election, 1922, your Society worked
strenuously for Slaughter Reform. Posters and circulars
were issued and sent out to helpers all over the country.
Questions were put at meetings; thousands of letters
requesting deﬁnite replies to deﬁnite questions were sent
by voters to candidates in their respective constituencies.
The following questions were sent from the ofﬁces of the
Society to every candidate :—

DEAR SIR,-—We shall be greatly obliged if you can ﬁnd time to
give us your views on the above subject, which is a matter now
prominently before the public and a question of political urgency
to members and supporters of our Society throughout the country.

(1) The Ministry of Health has issued Model Bye-Laws for
Slaughterhouses, making the use of mechanically-operated Humane
Killers compulsory (Clause 9B). Over 50 Rural and Urban
Authorities have already adopted these Bye-Laws, thereby ensuring
greater humanity and cleanliness in the Whole process of slaughter.

Will you support a Legislative Measure making the use of
Mechanically-Operated Killers compulsory throughout the country I

(2) Other countries, such as Switzerland, Sweden, Holland and
Germany, have abolished Private Slaughterhouses and instituted
Public Abattoirs, with the object of securing efﬁcient inspection of
meat and humane and standardised methods of slaughter. Britain
lags behind.

Are you in favour of our movement for the institution of
hygienically-conducted Public Abattoirs, where efﬁcient inspection
of meat and supervision of the whole process of slaughter would
constitute an important step towards the attainment of public
health?

Six hundred candidates replied, pledging themselves
to the measures of Slaughter Reform advocated, and of
these two hundred were elected .

Posters urging electors to press their candidates to vote
for Slaughter Reform were carried through the streets
of London.

In the London County Council Election in March all
candidates were approached on the subject of Slaughter
Reform, and 105 replied promising support, of which
45 were elected.

It was this year that, owing to the continued obtuseness
of the opposition and the inability of the Meat Trade to
recognise the advantages of the humane method of
slaughter the President and the Hon. Director of your
Society, after much anxious counsel and thought, decided
to undertake the formidable task of building a Model
Abattoir.

29

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The activities of 1923 were continued with the same
vigour as in 1922. The Government appointed a Cabinet
Committee to consider the slaughter of animals with
reference to the Humane Killer. On receipt of a letter
asking for information from Mr. Shelley, Secretary to
this Committee, Miss Lind-af-Hageby and the Duchess of
Hamilton prepared a Statement of Evidence and Recom—
m endattons, together with a Memorandum on the Jewish
method of slaughter, which the3 submitted to the Cabinet
Committee on February 12th. This Statement embodied
their personal experiences and conclusions. It was so
much appreciated that the Secretary of the Cabinet
Committee wrote for forty more copies for the use of the
Government. In regard to the Jewish method certain
practical measures for immediate limitation and reform
were proposed. The Statement and a Memorandum on
Jewish Slaughter were sent to all Members of the Houses
of Parliament.

That year Sir Arthur Shirley Benn, M.P., brought in his
Bill for enforcing humane slaughter, and collaborated with
your Society all the time. Members of the Animal Defence
Society “ lobbied ” daily in the House of Commons. On
April 16th a Conference was held at the President’s house
between your Society and the recalcitrant ofﬁcials of the
Meat Trade. On April 24th a well-attended meeting
promoted by your Society was held in a Committee room
in the House of Commons; Sir William Davidson, M.P.,
took the chair. Many Members of Parliament attended
and were much impressed. Again there was an Exhibition
of humane and inhumane appliances.

After this meeting the representatives of the
Meat Trade made a special request to meet representatives
of your Society. A Conference was held on April25th
in Room 13 in the House of Commons. The Meat Trade
representatives met Sir Arthur Shirley Benn, Sir Leslie
Scott, Mr. G. Stewart, The Duchess, of. Hamilton and Miss
Lmind-af-Hageby The Bill was discussed in detail. The
Conference continued until midnight and ended in a
deadlock, for friends of animals could not accept the
nullifying amendments proposed. The Conference was
resumed the following morning and, aftei prolonged dis-
cussion, reached an agreementb

F ickle Support. -—-In consequence a letter was sent to
the Press which appeared in the Datly Telegraph Despite
the agreement the National Federation of Meat Traders
backed out and Mr. Adams, the {PreSident, wrote contra”-
dicting the statement that there had been an agreement,

30

 




 

and demanding an exhaustive practical and scientiﬁc
investigation. , There was also Jewish opposition which
was only withdrawn when it was agreed that the Jews
should be given the same exemption as heretofore. ,

Further progress with the Bill was arrested by the
dissolution of Parliament.

There were many meetings in 1923. The Duchess of
Hamilton, Miss Lind-af—Hageby, the Marquis of Clydesdale
and Mr. John Dodds went to Belfast to speak. They were
guests. at a luncheon, the company including .the Lord
Mayor, representatives of the Ulster Parliament, the
Churches, the City Council, the Medical ProfessiOn,
Magistrates, etc. During their stay at Belfast, the
representatiVes of the Animal Defence Society paid a visit
to the Belfast Abattoir. The Lord Mayor of Belfast
accompanied them on this visit. They were shown over the
slaughterhouse and saw various operations in connection
with the preparation of meat, but they were not shown the
actual process of slaughter. In the course of a talk with
the Superintendent they found that this gentleman was
Wholly opposed to the introduction of the humane killer. A
Humane Exhibition was arranged for a week at the Barton
Warehouses in Bristol and subsequently a Mass Meeting
was held in that town. The speakers were the Archdeacon
of Swindon, the Duchess of Hamilton, Miss Lind-af-Hageby
and Miss Constance Warner. The supporters of the
meeting included the Lord Mayor of Bristol, the Lord
Bishop of Bristol, the Bishop of Clifton, the Dean of
Bristol and the Archdeacon of Bristol. At this meeting
Mr. Evans, the Chairman of the United Tanners’
Federation of Great Britain and Ireland, offered to speak
and showed the skins of heads of cattle, with many holes
from the pole-axe. There was the usual strong opposition
from the butchers. The meeting concluded with the show-
ing of lantern slides.

The Bristol Master Butchers’ Association subsequently
adopted a. resolution moved by Mr. Gr. G. Babbage, that
“ a recommendation go from this meeting to the whole of
the Trade throughout Bristol and its environs that the
Swedish Killer (Animal Defence Society’s) be obtained and
put into immediate operation.’ ’

In March your Society held a successful demonstration
of humane slaughter in the Manchester Public Slaughter-
house, which attracted much public attention. Miss
Warner had spent some time in Manchester preparing for
the demonstration. A number of representative peOple in

31

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
  

 

 

 

 
 

   
   

 

  

Manchester were invited : members of the City Corporation,
the Church, the Press, Port of Manchester Ship and Canal
Ofﬁcials, Medical Ofﬁcers, Veterinary Surgeons, etc. The
demonstration was held at the premises of Messrs. Thomas
Knowles, butchers, and through their courtesy two
bullocks, two sheep and two pigs were provided. A large
number of butchers and slaughtermen attended the
demonstration as well as those who had come by special
invitation. Mr. Minor, Chief Veterinary Surgeon at the
Public Slaughterhouse, was present and subsequently
inspected the meat. The Duchess of Hamilton, Miss
'Warner and Miss Logan explained to the guests your
Society ’s objects in arranging demonstrations.

Prior to the actual demonstration Miss Lind-af—Hageby
addressed the assembly in the slaughterhouse. She stood
on a crutch for killing sheep. She asked for open-minded
consideration of the many pointswliumane and hygienic-—
in favour of reform. The animals were shot efﬁciently and
painlessly by Mr. Alexander. A number of experts
remained for the examination of the meat, which was
found to be sound and in excellent condition.

Of the demonstration the Manchester City News (March
10th) wrote :-———-

At a demonstration arranged by the Animal Defence Society
yesterday in the City Abattoir it was shown that small animals,
such as sheep and calves, can be killed almost instantaneously and
painlessly by the humane killer, and that large beasts, no matter how
fractious or hard-headed, are stunned instantly. Given a certain
amount of care, the instrument is perfectly safe in use. Carlisle
Public Slaughterhouses have used the humane killer for twenty-three
years, and report perfect success throughout that period. There is
no question that bleeding is as free as with the ordinary methods,
and there is a great practical advantage that meat from humanely-
slaughtered animals is never “ fevered” from fright in the animal,
as is frequently the case otherwise. “ Fevered ” meat is dangerous
to the public, and the public must look after its own welfare.

And Mr. Minor stated in public in reference to this
demonstration that “ for all effectual purposes the animals
dled or were rendered totally unconscious immediately.”

The Duchess of Hamilton and Miss Lind-af~Hageby
subsequently gave a Public Reception at the Midland
Hotel, Manchester. Miss Warner and Miss Schartau were
present and helped to receive the guests. There was a
large attendance, including many members of the Meat
Trade, several of Whom had participated in the
demonstration.

32

 

 

 




 

Speeches were made by your President and Hon.
Director, by Mr. Cuming Walters, Editor of the
Manchester City News, Mr. Oaten, Mr. Walter Heap,
Fix-President of: the National Federation of Meat Traders,
Dr. B. Solomon, Senior Rabbi cf the Manchester 01d
Hebrew Congregation, and Mr. Dawson, head slaughter—
man of the Abattoir. The meeting was at times very\
lively, as the speeches for and against humane killing
were . made, and strong feeling shown on all sides.
“Jews,” said Dr. Solomon, “’ require no lessons in mercy
from their Christian brothers.” Mr. Heap stated he did
not believe Miss Lind-af—Hageby had a forehead of a
bullock with 13 holes in it.

Miss Lind-af-Hageby: “ I don’t tell lies! I shall have
great pleasure in showing it to Mr. Heap.”

Mr. Heap went on to say he was not suggesting that
Miss Lind-af—Hageby had been lying, and that he agreed
with her that the Jewish method was cruel.

A slaughter reform exhibition had been arranged in the
hall.

Valuable and informative articles in support of your
Society’s Slaughter Reform Campaign, and reporting the
demonstration and meeting, were published in the
Manchester Guardian and the Manchester City News.
' There were also reports and pictures in the Daily Dispatch,
.‘in the London Evening Standard and other papers.

On March 15th, a crowded meeting was held in
Horsham. The Chair was taken by Lady Burrell, J.P.
The Speakers were the Duchess of Hamilton, Miss Lind-
af—Hageby and Miss Warner. Some 700 peOple attended
the meeting, and there was strong opposition from a
party of nearly 200 butchers. There were frequent
protests, interruptions, and once or twice cries of
“ idiotic.” Hostile butchers were allowed to address the
meeting from the platform, and amongst those who
availed themselves of this privilege were Mr. W. Payne,
Secretary of the National Federation of Meat Traders,
who spoke for over 20 minutes, and who was eloquent on
the subject of the cruelties perpetrated in fox-hunting,
pheasant shooting, and hare-hunting, Mr. E. E. Cripps,
who declared that the humane killer was neither safe
nor reliable, Mr. G. Nailard, etc. Your Society’s exhibition
of Slaughter Reform objects and implements was shown in
connection with this meeting, and Miss Warner showed
lantern slides. The meeting was fully reported in the
West Sussex County Tunes. '

33

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

In April a Slaughter Reform meeting was held at
Tunbridge Wells, at which the Duchess of Hamilton,
Miss Lind~af~Hageby and Miss “Varner spoke. There
were present on the platform Alderman H. Elwig, JR.
and the Revs. Canon Oliver, and Hugh Miller. A
resolution was passed in support. of the Humane Slaughter
Bill before the House of Commons, and it was decided
that a copy should be sent to the Member of Parliament
for the Tonbridge Division.

011 May 3rd the Duchess of Hamilton and Miss Warner
spoke on Slaughter Reform at the Forum Club.

The 1923 Meat Trade’s Demonstration of
Slaughtering Methods in Birming‘ham.——The record of
your Society’s efforts at friendly co-operation with the
officials of the Meat Trade is worthy of a volume to
itself. For the blind support of the old cruel methods
of. slaughter, of obsolete implements upheld by pride of
Trade, and wilful ignoring of humanitarian feeling, afford,
in their practical. expressions, interesting comment
on the psychology of the butcher’s trade. (It should,
however, be stated emphatically that there were noble
and notable exceptions amongst the rank and ﬁle of
butchers and amongst some leaders of the Trade, men who
whole-heartedly supported your Society.)

After considerable correspondence and some hesitation
in regard to the usefulness of attendance your Society
decided to accept the invitation of the Meat Trade to attend
a demonstration in Birmingham, arranged to show the
advantages of the old methods of slaughter.

It was supposed to be an impartial inquiry, yet in
the Meat Trades Journal of October 18th, 1923, the oppo-
sition of the National Federation of Meat Traders to the
Humane Slaughter Bill was expressed as follows :———“ The
Slaughter of Animals Bill will have to be fought and
fought strenuously,” and the same number of this Journal
published a Resolution in opposition to the Bill, passed
by the Federation, recording that it would absolutely Oppose
the provisions of the Bill, and would “not agree to a com-
promise of any description.” There Was also an
announcement that the Federation were ofﬁcially support-
ing and circulating in pamphlet form a speech by Mr.
A. E. Marsh in which the use of the Humane Killer was
condemned on the grounds that it would not lessen the
sufferings of animals, that shot animals cannot be properly
bled, and that meat from such animals is dangerous to
public health and decomposes rapidly.

34

 

 

 




 

The Federation invited the Animal Defence Society to
send three representatives to the Demonstratlon together
with a demonstrator to carry out slaughtering by methods
advocated by the Society. The inv1tation to send
representatives was accepted, but that of prov1dmg a
demonstrator was declined for good and sufﬁc1ent reasons
which were given in a letter from Miss Lmd-af—Hageby to
the Secretary of the Meat Trade from wh1ch we quote the
following :—-——

With regard to demonstrating the use of the Humane Killer
advocated by our Society, and the quality of the meat produced,
the Executive Council have made it a rule not to hold demonstrations
unless they are fully cognisant of and in a position to direct
arrangements for selection of animals, slaughter preparations and
testing of the meat produced. In this case all arrangements will
clearly be under the sole control iof’your Federation. Judging by
the hostility to the use of the Humane Killer, expressed by your
Federation in the Meat Trades Journal, to which I made reference
in my letter of the 23rd ult., I am led to assume that the principal
object of this Demonstration is the maintenance of the attitude of
opposition to reform to which the Federation has already so forcibly
committed itself.

In November last this Society organised a Demonstration of the
use of the Humane Killer in London, reports of which appeared
in the Press. The meat produced—beef, veal, mutton and pork-
was subsequently bought, exhibited and sold by Harrod’s Stores
and declared to be of excellent quality. Arrangements are being
made for further Demonstrations to be held under the auspices of
this Society and I trust that representatives of your Federation will
accept invitations to attend them.

The Demonstration was held in the Birmingham
Slaughterhouse in the presence of a large assembly invited
by the Federation. Those present included a number of
Medical Ofﬁcers of Health, Members of the City Corporation
of Birmingham, Sanitary Inspectors, Veterinary Surgeons,
Meat Inspectors, Superintendents of Markets, Pig~Breeders
and Pork Butchers, Representatives of Butchers’ and
Slaughtermen’s Organisations, of the Jewish Board of
Shechita, etc. The Duchess of Hamilton, Miss
Lind-af—Hageby and Mr. John Dodds were present on
behalf of the Animal Defence Society.

The three representatives of your Society wrote a Report
of the Demonstration which was published, and from which
we quote the following :—~—

Fifty-two animals were provided for the Demonstration. They

consisted of bullocks, sheep and pigs. No bulls, cows Or calves
were used.

In the Programme of Proceedings, published by the National
Federation of Meat Traders, which was handed to us on arrival,
we read the following declaration in favour of the old-fashioned
methods of killing by pole-axe and knife:—--—

35

 




 

 

 

“ The contention of the Trade is that existing methods are as
speedy and humane as any that have so far been devised,” thus
again emphasising that the Trade had made up its mind before
conducting its Inquiry.

It is, therefore, of the greatest signiﬁcance to note that out of
two bullocks slaughtered by the pole-axe, one remained standing
after the ﬁrst blow, though the point had penetrated the skull.
The pole-axe was pulled out of the head of the animal and another
blow given before the animal fell insensible on the ﬂoor. That
this could happen at a Public Demonstration, designed to show
the superiority of the pole-axe, is a fact which should for ever
silence the defenders of this inefﬁcient and inhumane implement.
It must naturally be assumed that the Federation had selected the
best operator obtainable and the most suitable animal for the
operation. The second bullock was successfully felled with one
blow. Five bullocks were slaughtered by mechanically-operated
Humane Killers and every one of these animals was rendered
insensible by the ﬁrst shot.

We were much impressed by the unsuitable and unp‘i'actical
manner in which the bullocks were brought to the place of slaughter.
They were hauled through a narrow doorway, then, by various
manipulations, forcibly made to turn right round, slipping in the
process and showing signs of fright and distress. Fright and
slipping were particularly noticeable in the ﬁrst three animals
brought in. The second and third bullock fell, one having to
be shot lying down after vain attempts to make it rise.

The demonstration of the Jewish method of killing emphasised
the inhumanity of this method, notwithstanding the fact that care
had been taken to show the latest improvements in the process of
casting. A mattress was used for the animals to fall upon, and
instead of the crowbar and rope for ﬁxing the head, a man was,
employed to hold the head and expose the throat for the cut by
the Shoohet. In the case of the ﬁrst bullock slaughtered by this
method, there was much delay and diﬁiculty in getting the animal
to fall in the requisite position on the mattress. When cast, the
bullock slipped and fell only partially on the mattress and had to
be raised to its feet and cast again. ,Obvious distress was caused
by these preparations and by the shackling of the feet, which were
drawn securely against staples. After the Shoohet had cut the
throat, one of the slaughtermen present cleared the wound with
his knife so as to ensure freer bleeding. This animal made conscious
and vigorous movements and struggled for some considerable time
after the cut. The second bullock slaughtered by the Jewish method,
was cast on the mattress with greater efﬁciency.

We observed, by stop-watch, struggles and movements on the
part of this animal during seven minutes after the throat had been
cut. The movements during several minutes were decidedly
conscious and purposive, and at times so forcible that'the animal
would have risen had it not been securely tied by the legs. These
movements show that, in spite of the severance of important.
blood-vessels in the throat, blood reaches the brain through the
vertebrate arteries which are left intact.

It is a disturbing factwadmitted by Jewish authorities-that in
London alone some 1,000 bullocks a week are slaughtered by the
Jewish method.

The Report of the Demonstration, issued by your Society,
was sent to the Press, and The Times and many other
papers published lengthy notices and comment~ on it.

36

 

 

 




 

Your Society’s collection of testimonials from butchers
who use the Humane Killer was greatly enlarged. In
, February a notice was issued announcing that a well-known
ﬁrm of London butchers, Messrs. R. Allen & 00., 117,
Mount Street, purveyors of meat by Royal Warrant to His
Majesty the King, had undertaken to provide such meat.
This was followed by a notice that Mr. A. J. Smith of
Edgware Road also undertook to supply meat derived from
humanely killed animals. Mr. Smith has upon several
occasions done kind services to your Society and arranged
Demonstrations of humane slaughter.

Visits to Foreign Abattoirs.——-On October 16th the
Duchess of Hamilton and Miss Lind-af—Hageby paid a visit
to the Abattoir at Berne, Switzerland, which they inspected
thoroughly, under the guidance of the Superintendent,
Dr. Noyer, who has rendered valuable assistance to
the Cause of Slaughter Reform on many occasions. On
October 17th, they, accompanied by Miss D'elius, visited
the Abattoir in Ziirich and were shown the slaughtering
work carried out there. On October 18th they met Madame
Simons in Paris and discussed with her the efforts made
to introduce more humane methods at La Villette in Paris.

In 1924 the large Advertisement Campaign was pursued
by well-displayed statements of the case for Slaughter
Reform in The Times, the M oming Post, the Daily Herald,
etc. There were numerous meetings, amongst them
meetings in London, Birmingham, Cheltenham; addresses
were given in Croydon, Ilford, Redford, etc. In April
your Society held a crowded meeting at the Steinway
Hall, London.

The objects of the meeting were :——-

‘ 1. To urge the Government to introduce a Bill to make the use
of mechanically-operated humane killers obligatory in the
slaughter of animals for food throughout the country;

.“4. To present facts and evidence showing the lack of foundation
for statements made that meat and bacon, derived from
humanely slaughtered animals, are inferior in quality or unﬁt
for food; -

To draw attention to the objects of the model Abattoir which
it is proposed to build, and to the urgent need for reform
in the care of animals, and in the handling of meat from. the
point of view of public health. ’

to '

Members of the meat trade had been specially invited
to» attend through advertisements in the Press and
through notices sent by post. A large number-were
present, and there were frequent hostile interruptions and
much noise of dissent. The Duchess of Hamilton was in

37

 




  
 
 
 
  
   
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
  
   
 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 

  
  

the Chair, and the speakers were Lord Ernest Hamilton,
Lieut.-Col. H. M. Meyler, M.P., Miss Lind-af—Hageby,
Miss Warner, Mr. J. S. Wardlaw Milne, M.P., Lady
Terrington, M.P., Mr. John Dodds and Mr. T. L. Staples.
They were supported by The Earl of Plymouth, The Rt.
Hon. G. Lambert, Sir Alfred and Lady Yarrow, Sir Arthur
Shirley Benn, M.P., Mrs. Philipson, M.P., The Marquis of
Clydesdale, Sir Cyril Cobb, M.P., Mr. Isaac Foot, M.P.,
Sir Leslie Scott, M.P., K.C., etc.

From the Chair the President referred to the opposition
offered by the Meat Trades J marmala—

“ They write of our appeals for mercy, for the merest
decency in the treatment of the animals, as ‘ sob-stuff.’
They ﬁll their journal week by week with statements,
sometimes beyond the limit of reputable controversy.”
“ We shall, therefore,” she said, “ show by practical
demonstration that our principles are sound. We shall
not only enter the trade, but We shall create a new trade,
with new ideals, new principles and new practice. The
time Will come when young men in the trade Will no more
dream of using the old barbarous method in the slaughter
of animals for food than young men now dream of study-
ing how to drive coaches along our roads or four-Wheeler
cabs along our streets. \Ve stand for humanity and
progress.”

At the meeting the plan for building a Model Abattoir
at Letchworth to refute the arguments of the hostile Meat
Trade was spoken of. Mr. Ayling, the architect, gave
details of the buildings to be erected.

On November 7th a very successful meeting was held
at Ramsgate under the auspices of your Society. Miss
Warner had spent some time in Ramsgate in the work of
organisation. The Chair was taken by the Rev. E. L. A.
Hertslet, and the speakers were the Duchess of Hamilton,
Miss Lind-af—Hageby and Miss Constance Warner. The
Mayor of Ramsgate, Dame Janet Stancombe Wills, who had
given warm support to the Slaughter Reform movement,
was on the platform. There was considerable opposition
on the part of butchers and representatives of Jewish
slaughter, but in spite of this a strong resolution, urging
the Ramsgate Borough Council to adopt Clause 9B of the
Model Bye-Laws, was carried with only a few dissentients.
Questions were putand answered from the platform.

The resolution was proposed by the Mayor and seconded
by Sir Edward Rigg. Votes of thanks were proposed by
Sir Cecil Hertslet and seconded by the Deputy-Mayor.

38

 

 

 

 

 

  




 

Amongst those present on the platform were Lady
Roxborough, Lieut.-Col. W. Smith, Captain H. C. Norman,
the Rev. T. \Villiams, Dr. Tamplin, Alderman A. W.
Larkin, and Mr. D. R. Leuliette, who had given great help
in organising the meeting and making it a success.

The meeting was particularly noisy when Miss Warner showed
a series of lantern slides illustrative of the present conditions in
private slaughterhouses. (Cries of “ Taken years ago,” “ Faked,”
“' Be fair,” “ Not a bit like that,” were heard.) Mr. Emanuel,
Secretary and Solicitor to the Board of Shechtta, was present on
behalf of the Jews, and at the conclusion of the meeting walked
up to the platform and engaged in conversation with Miss
Lind-af—Hageby. Subsequently this conversation, in a somewhat
garbled form, was reproduced in the J ewish Chronicle, and called
an “ Interview with Miss Lind-af—Hageby.”

The Years that Followed. It is impossible in this
survey to do more than indicate the intense and varied
activities that followed during subsequent years. Meetings
were held in many parts of the country, including one in
York, at which the Archbishop of York—~now Archbishop
of Canterbury—atook the chair. Miss Constance Warner
gave hundreds of lectures on Slaughter Reform, arranged
demonstrations and exhibitions. The Duchess of
Hamilton and Miss Lind-af—Hageby twice went to Chicago,
visited the Slaughterhouses and pleaded with those in
authority to reform their methods. Visits were paid to
numerous foreign Abattoirs including those in Munich,
Paris, Vienna, Stockholm, New Orleans, Madrid.
Demonstrations of Humane Slaughter were organised in
Paris, Geneva and other towns, and Humane Killers were
presented to municipalities and private individuals. For
seven consecutive years the Animal Defence Society had a
Slaughter Reform Stall at the Smithﬁeld Cattle Show; the
Society also had Slaughter Reform Stalls at the Royal
Horse Show and at a Church Congress in Plymouth. 011
two occasions the Society took part in joint Deputations to
the Ministry of Health (May, 1924.- and January, 1925). A
Conference was held at your Society’s ofﬁces with represen—
tatives of the Board of Deputies of British Jews (by their
request). '

 

The Model Abattoir.—-—-The Foundation Stone of the
Model Abattoir having been laid with appropriate
ceremony on December 14th, 1925, the work of building
proceeded steadily and in July, 1927, the inauguration
of the building took place on the occasion of the Inter—
national Animal Protection Congress and was attended
by a large assembly. The company of ﬁve hundred persons

39

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

included a large number of Delegates to the Congress and
a hostile section of butche1s and slaughtermen who had
introduced themselves uninvited.

A meeting was held 111 the Lectu1e Hall of the Abattoir, -
at which the Chaii was taken by the Duchess of Hamilton
(who had laid the Foundation. Stone of the Abattoir).

Speeches were made by the Rt. H011. Noel Buxton, M. P. .
late Minister of Agricultu1e, Dr. Hugo Heiss, Doctor of
Medicine and Veterinary Surgeon, Director of the
Straubing Public Abattoir, Professor Hjalmar Dahlstrdm,
of the Royal Veterinary College, Stockholm, Dr. M Noyer,
Chief Veterinary Surgeon at the Berne Abattoir (one of
the ﬁnest in Europe, where humane slaughter has long
been successfully established), Lord Ernest Hamilton.
[dent-Colonel J. F. Donegan, and the Rev. B. G. Bourchier.

Mr. W. H. Gaunt spoke on behalf of the Letchworth
Urban District Council, and Sir Ebenezer Howard,
founder of Letchworth Model Garden City, said a few
words. The City of Antwerp had sent Monsieur Somers,
Echévin des Services Sanitaires, and Monsieur Jacobs.
Director of the Municipal Abattoir, as ofﬁcial represen-
tatives of that city.

There were successful demonstrations of humane
slaughter at the conclusion of the meeting, ﬁrst in the
pig slaughterhouse and afterwards in the cattle slaughter—
house.

Pri01 to the meeting, Miss Lind- af— Hageby conducted
parties of the guests round the buildings, explaining the:
purposes of the installation. "‘

.The Scottish Humane Slaughter Bill, introduced in
1927, gave rise to much opposition and controversy. Your
Society organised a demonstration of humane slaughter
of sheep at the Letchworth Abattoir, to which every
Member of the House of Commons was invited. There
had been strong and apparently effective opposition to
the inclusion of sheep in the humane provisions of the-
Bill. The demonstration took place on. June 18th, 1928.
four days before the Third Reading of the Scottish Bill
and, being conducted by Mr. John T Robertson, of
Edinburgh, was a great success. Twenty-ﬁve sheep were
successfully slaughtered with the Cash Mechanical Killer.
The, demonstration served to show that the Mechanical
Killer ensures instantaneous unconsciousness and that the

9 A repmt of the good wo1k for slaughte1 reform done th—izough the
building of the Model Abattoir at Letchworth will appear in a book to
be issued shortly.

 

40




 

  

objections raised in the House of Commons in regard to
loss of time, danger to the operator and deterioration of
meat were without foundation. Amongst the Members of
Parliament who attended the demonstration were Lt.-Col.
T. C. Moore, M.P., Brig-Gen. Charteris, M.P.. who had
introduced the Bill, Mr. MacLaren, M.P., Mr. Robert
Young, M.P., Mr. W. Wright, M.P., Lord Fermoy, M.P.,
Mr. Viant, M.P. One hundred and thirty Members of
Parliament wrote and expressed their regret at their
inability to be present. Mr. Neville Chamberlain, Minister
of. Health, wrote expressing his pleasure at seeing the
Model Abattoir and his hope that it would successfully

carry out its work of education in humane slaughter of
animals.

The Humane Slaughter Act of l933.——This Act,
though representing an important advance, is unsatis~
factOry owing to the concessions made to opponents of
humane slaughter. Under this Act no animal “ shall be
slaughtered in a slaughterhouse or knacker’s yard except
in accordance with the following provisions, that is to say,
every such animal shall be instantaneously slaughtered or
shall by stunning be instantaneously rendered insensible
to pain until death supervenes, and such slaughtering or
stunning shall be effected by means of a mechanically-
operated instrument in proper repair.”

But there are exemptions. Pigs need not be slaughtered
humanely in slaughterhouses in which there is not available
a-supplg of electrical energy ,- sheep and lambs do not
co’me'under the Act unless local authorities decide to pass
resolutions applying the humane slaughter section to these
animals. Jewish and Mohammedan methods of slaughter
are exempt frOm the‘prooisions of the Act.

Eleven million sheep are slaughtered in this country
every year, and it is left to the discretion of Rural and
Municipal Councils whether sheep are to be included or
not. A great many Local Councils have now adopted
the inclusion of sheep; but their general exclusion from
the Act-is a very serious ﬂaw. *

vaur Society issued a pamphlet entitled, “ Wrecking
the Humane Slaughter Bill,” from which the following
is quoted :—-——

It is a scandal and a disgrace that the opposition to humane
methods of slaughter should by force of majority in Committee
have succeeded in excluding sheep and, in a great measure, pigs
from the Bill. England is supposed to be the pioneer and stronghold
of Animal Protection, yet, in the matter of humane slaughter she

41

 

  




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 

    

 

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

lags behind other countries, which long ago have decided that the
ﬁrst and elementary measure of putting kindness to animals into
practice is to stun them before they are slaughtered for food.
At the meeting of Standing Committee B. on June 27th, members
of Parliament advanced arguments provided by Jewish opposition
and the truculency of the National Federation of Meat Traders,
which were conspicuous by their cynical and mercenary disregard
of humanitarian principles.

Mr. Herbert Williams, Member for S. Croydon, who has led the
eﬁorts to wreck the Bill, was seen to take whispered advice from a
phalanx of smug representatives of the Jewish opposition to all
slaughter reform.

We know, and do not guess, that Jews have been energetically
at work, for we read in the Jewish Chronicle of June 23rd, 1933,
the following, written in reference to the Humane Slaughter Bill:———

“ In order to avoid doubts as to the humane nature of ‘ Shechita,’
members of the Committee (Standing Committee B.) are being
supplied with facts and authoritative opinions which should leave
them in no doubt whether the methods of ‘ Shech/ita’ are humane.”

Mr. Janner, M.P., made the following statement in Committee
on June 27th:———

“ I am indebted to my hon. Friend for having asked to see the
method adopted for the purpose of slaughtering animals according
to Jewish rites. I want to make it clear that the Jewish method
has been deﬁnitely considered to be humane by physiologists of
eminence and renown and by nearly everybody who has seen the
method in practice. There is a quotation that I should like to make,
so that the position may be perfectly clear, and this is from a
statement made by Professor Lovatt Evans, D.Sc., F.R.S.,*
who said :——~

“ ‘ My opinion as a physiologist is that I should think this method
is as humane as any other method in. use or likely to be brought
into use for the purpose. I should be happy to think that my
own end were likely to be as swift and painless as the end of these
cattle killed in this way undoubtedly is. ’ ” (See Parliamentary
Debates, House of Commons Standing Committee B., Tuesday,
June 27th, 1933.)

Amongst the members of Parliament who opposed the
Bill were the following: Mr. Herbert G. Williams, member
for South Croydon, Major Procter, member for
Accrington, Mr. Michael W. Beaumont, member for
Aylesbury, Mr. E. W. Salt, member for Yardley, Mr. R. H.
Morgan, member for Stourbridge, Mr. Smith-Carington,
member for Rutland and Stamford, Mr. J. Slater, member
for Eastbourne, Mr. G. H. Eady, member for Bradford,
Sir Thomas Rosbotham, member for Ormskirk,
Mr. Wilfred D. Wills, member for Batley and Morley,
Colonel J. Broadbent, member for Ashton-under-Lyne,
Mr. P. J. Harmon, member for Moseley, Alderman D. G.

 

* Professor Lovatt Evans is a licensed vivisector whose name was
much before the public at the time of the Hewett case in 1926 (dogs
stolen by Hewett to be delivered to University College Physiological
laboratory) . .

42




Logan, member for Liverpool, Scotland, Sir J. Lamb,
member for Stone, Mr. Richard K. Law, member for
Kingston-upon-Hull.

A Bill was introduced in the House of Commons by the
Meat Trade with the object of strengthening the Opposition
to the inclusion of all animals in the provisions for humane
slaughter. The Bill was promoted by Mr. H. G. Williams,
M.P., and provided for the mechanical slaughter of bovine
animals only (deﬁned as bull, cow, bullock, heifer, steer, ox),

This Bill received the support of the organised meat
trade. The Meat Trades Journal wrote: ‘ ‘ The Federation”
(the National Federation of Meat Traders) “ hold that the
traditional methods of slaughter are the best.” This meant
that the Federation was still in favour of the slaughtering,
Without previous stunning, by knife only, of the smaller
animals, such as sheep, pigs, calves, and of the use of the
poleaxe for cattle. The Meat Trades Journal urged
members of the Federation to do all they could to secure
support for Mr. Williams’ Bill and in opposition to
Lt.-Colonel Moore’s Bill "‘ which not only requires the
mechanical slaughter of all animals, but contains a large
number of other obnoxious provisions as well.”

On June 24th Lt.-Colonel Moore, M.P., called at the
ofﬁces of your Society to discuss methods by which the
passage of the Bill could be aided. Your Society
organised much lobbying in the House of Commons by
selected parties of workers in support of the Bill and in
opposition to the nullifying amendments.

Germany prohibited Jewish slaughter on April 4th, 1933,
Switzerland forbade it years ago on account of its cruelty.
Norway has also forbidden it on account of its cruelty.

It is erroneous to say that Humane Slaughter has been
established in this country. The Jewish method of killing,
which consists of cutting the throat of an animal without
previous stunning, is the very antithesis of humane
slaughter. And there is no limit to Jewish killing imposed
by the Act of 1933.

The Model Abattoir at Letchworth has again served
as an example and to stimulate interest in the cause of
slaughter reform.‘ The Meat Trade in England still offers
strong opposition to the institution of public abattoirs
and the continued existence in this country of thousands
of small private slaughterhouses shows the need of
enlightenment. Other countries have abolished the private
slaughterhouse.

43

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

. The Bristol City Council, representatives of which
inspected the Model Humane Abattoir, have now adopted
a plan for a Public Abattoir outside the town at a cost
of £30,000 to replace the existing 63 private slaughter-
houses in that city.

Enquiries for particulars and plans of the Model
Abattoir and its equipment received during the year from
different parts of the world included one from the City
Sanitary Inspector of Kimberley, South Africa; from
Mr. Burberry, Secretary of the Society for the Prevention
of Cruelty to Animals, Johannesburg, who paid a visit to
your Society’s Humane Exhibition; from Miss MacPhee,
a leading worker in Durban, Natal.

Other requests for information came from India, China
and Canada. Rao Sahib N. C. Rangaswami Iyengar,
Superintendent of the SPCA. of Madras, worked actively
to introduce the humane killer in India.

Mr. A. Fortune, Senior Sanitary Inspector, Health Department,
Colne, Lanes, wrote for information to meet butchers’ objections
to the use of the humane killer on sheep.

Mrs. de Wolif wrote that she had succeeded in getting the Humane
Killer introduced in the Abattoir at Malta. This, she stated, was
accomplished partly through the help of the Society ’5 publications.

Assistance was given to a demonstration of humane slaughter
at the Veterinary College of Alfort, near Paris.

Bill to Prohibit the Vivisection of Dogs. This Bill, to
which reference was made in the Report for 1932, was set
down for Second Reading on March 3rd, 1933, but as
the prior order of the day was one relating to miners’
wages which would exhaust the whole of the time of the
day, Sir Robert Grower (on February 27th) withdrew the
Bill from the list in the hope that another opportunity
for Second Reading might be found. The Bill provided :———

 

Notwithstanding anything in the Cruelty to Animals Act, 1876
(hereinafter referred to as “ the principal Act ”), it shall be
unlawful to perform any experiment of a nature calculated to
give pain or disease to any dog for any such purpose whatsoever,
either with or without anaesthetics, and no person or place shall
be licensed for the purpose of performing any such experiments.

Any person performing or assisting or taking part in performing
any such experiment on any dog shall be guilty of an oﬂ’ence
against the principal Act and punishable accordingly, and the
‘ provisions of this Act shall have effect as though they. formed
part of that Act.

This Act may be cited for all purposes as the Dogs" (Protection)
Act, 1933, and the principal Act and this Act may be cited
together as the Cruelty to Animals Acts, 1876 to 1933.

44'.




The Animal Defence and Anti-Vivisection Society has
always denounced vivisectional experiments on animals as
immoral, as misleading to Science and injurious to medical
theory and practice. It, therefore, has demanded and
demands the legal prohibition of such experiments. From
the outset the Society has recognised that all animals are
entitled to exemption from vivisection, and has declined
to make use of arguments designed to obtain the liberation
of dOgs from vivisection by conceding that other animals——
cats, horses, rabbits, guinea-pigs, apes, monkeys and rats
——may be used.

But the Society has supported the various Bills for the
exemption of dogs which have been introduced in the
House of Commons. This support has been given in the
form of agitation by publications, lectures, mass meetings
and appeals to Members of Parliament, and has always
been based on the principle that the exemption of dogs
can only be accepted as an instalment of total abolition.

Caravan Campaign in Support of Bill to Exempt Dogs
from Vivisection.-———During 1933 the large Exhibition
Caravan of the Society was ﬁtted to undertake an
educational campaign relating to dogs. Exhibits were
prepared relating to the heroic exploits of war dogs, acts
of supreme devotion and self sacriﬁce on the part of dogs
who have saved human life and averted disaster by their
intelligence and sagacity. Publications were prepared
containing extracts from the published reports of
vivisectors showing the cruelty of experiments on dogs.
A series of “ Help the Dog ” leaﬂets was issued for the
occasion, i.e., 1. What is a “Stray Dog”? 2. The
Laboratory Mind and Experiments on Dogs. 3. The
Dog: The World’s Super Lover. 4.. Dogs and the Last
Royal Commission on Vivisection (1912). 5. Experiments
on Dogs Useless in Investigating the Nature and Treat-
ment of Cancer. 6. Stolen Dogs: Cases in London, 1926,
Philadelphia, Cologne and Toronto. 7. War Dogs: Their
Bravery. The caravan which is painted a bright
blue colour with yellow lettering (the Society’s colours),
was seen in London and surrounding districts for some
months and attracted great attention. It carried pictures,
posters, models. The following account of the work
appeared in Progress To-day :—

“ There is a model of a dog on a vivisection board, and
a poster showing the miseries of dogs perpetually chained.
Publications relating to the cruelties and uselessness of
vivisection experiments are distributed both during the

45

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

temporary “ hold-ups ” in the trafﬁc or at certain
“ pitches ” when the workers are able to get out, distri—
bute more literature, collect signatures for the Dogs’
Petition, and speak to the crowds which assemble with
amazing rapidity. The caravan has often stopped 20
minutes just off main thoroughfares. The reception
accorded has been extraordinarily sympathetic. People
will step at ﬁrst in the usual way, attracted by the
spectacle of the brilliant blue van with the pictures and
other exhibits, and it is generally only a short time before
the bolder spirits will step forward, hold out their hands
for publications and hazard a few questions or comment
on the cruelty or otherwise of experiments on dogs.
People accompanied by dogs are almost automatically
drawn to stop and talk. Though there have been occa-
sional discussions and arguments with medical students
and opponents, no hostility has been shown.

Miss Nora Logan, Member of the Executive Council,
has been chief of operations and has borne the full burden
of responsibility. She has been unsparing of her time and
energies in this direction. The caravan has been out
every day parading in and around London and stopping
wherever possible. It has many times patrolled Oxford
Street; Regent Street; High Street, Kensington; the
Strand; Piccadilly; Bond Street; and many other busy
shopping centres, as well as visiting East London, where
Mrs. Beddow Bayly obtained police permits for several
very good “ pitches ” (this was in addition to Mrs.
Beddow Bayly’s own Anti-Vivisection campaign in
which the Society’s caravan assisted later). South-West
London, Hammersmith Broadway, Chiswick, Roehampton,
Richmond, Putney, and Wimbledon are among the
districts visited. On May 19th Miss Logan took the van
to Midhurst to assist Mrs. Arncliffe Sennett in her work.
The caravan paraded Midhurst and the surrounding
districts, also visiting Chichester and stopping for about
an hour close to the Cathedral where hundreds of visitors
passed and read the posters. In the evenings a “ pitch ”
was used in the market Place. On Saturday evening
there was a very good crowd and Mrs. Sennett, who is a
most enthusiastic and energetic worker, addressed the
people from the van on the Cause. On June 12th and
13th the caravan assisted Dr. and Mrs. Beddow Bayly in
their Hackney campaign. Pitches were arranged for in
Hackney and Clapton from 11 am. till 9.30 pm. Dr. and
Mrs. Beddow Bayly were in charge, assisted by members
of the Clapton Anti—Vivisection Society. Miss Logan

46

 




 

and Miss Helen Turner helped for some hours each day.”
Among others Who have assisted are: The Duchess of
Hamilton, Mrs. Selby Lowndes, Miss B. C. Delius, Hon.
Treasurer of the Society; Miss Eveline Faulkner and
Captain Faulkner; Miss Tyson; Miss Matthews; Miss
Gibson; Mrs. Sherrin; Mr. Chiltern and Mr. Pyc.

The Dogs Exemption Bill introduced by Sir Robert
Grower was not proceeded with; on December 6th, 1933, a
Bill to prohibit the vivisection of dogs was ordered by
the House of Commons to be printed. This Bill was
presented by Mr. John Lockwood and supported by Sir
Robert Gower, Colonel Moore, Sir Bertram Falle, Major-
General Sir Alfred Knox, Colonel Crookshank, Mr. Clarry,
Mr. Maitland, Commander Astbury, Mr. Groves and
Mr. Cocks.

Medical Education and Vivisection. On October 6th
The M edical lVorld published a most interesting article
entitled Reﬂections on M cdical Education by G. F. Walker,
M.D., M.R.C.P. Dr. Walker’s article provides incisive and
thought-provoking criticism of present methods of training
medical students and should be widely read. Dr. Walker
wrote :—-— .

“ My own conviction is that the study of human physiology by
way of experiments on animals is the most grotesque and fantastic
error ever committed in the Whole range of human intellectual
activity. And like all such errors it is defended by its adherents,
either by an arrogant and muddle-headed fanaticism, or a
cantankerous petulance. Yet these are presented to the students as
an altruistic and open-minded zeal for truth. The fact is that most
students, though they do not realise it, are intellectually crippled
for life if once they are persuaded to take more than a perfunctory
interest in physiology as taught in the formal medical curriculum.
One of the saddest things one can see is the spectacle of a medical
student, otherwise kindly, reasonable and sensible, passionately
defending experiments upon animals because his teachers, ﬁnancially
interested in such experiments, use their positions and personalities
to impress their perversion on him. Unhappily the impressed
perversion often persists through life, and one occasionally reads
of the ludicrous and pathetic spectacle of elderly laymen, not
knowing what they say, repeating the platitudes taught them as
science students in defence of the mutilation of animals.”

The article by Dr. Walker was reprinted as a pamphlet
and sent to every Member of the General Medical Council,
to medical men on the staff of hospitals, and to every

Member of Parliament. Copies can be obtained from the
ofﬁces of your Society.

 

Subject of Vivisection Raised at Meeting of British
Medical Association. Dr. L. A. Parry spoke of vivisection
at the meeting of the British Medical Association held in

47

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Dublin in July, 1933. He moved that a committee be
appointed by the Council to consider the whole question of
experiments on animals. He said that this question had
not been investigated for many years, and that there were
now a very large number of medical men who entertained
grave doubts as to whether experiments on animals were
justiﬁed. There were, he said, a good many reasons to
show that experiments on animals were leading to no good
reSults, but to very bad results, and that they were holding
back the progress of Medicine.

The resolution was not carried.

Questions Asked at Meeting of the Research (Vivi-
section) Defence Society.——An advertisement in The Times
announced the Annual General Meeting of the Research
Defence Society (Society for the Defence of Vivisection)
and contained the notice that visitors were invited. Miss
Lind-af-Hageby attended the meeting which was held at
the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine in
Keppel Street, on June 22nd. The Chair was taken by
the President, Lord Lamington, supported by the Hon.
Sir Arthur Stanley, Chairman of Committee. The seventh
Stephen Paget memorial lecture was delivered by Major-
General Sir Leonard Rogers, K.C.S.I., M.D., F.R.C.P.,
F.R.S., and the subject was “ The Saving in Life and
Suffering due to Medical and Veterinary Research, with
Special Referenceto the Tropics.” The lecturer dealt at
great length with the alleged beneﬁts of vivisection, and
stated that the pain inﬂicted by experiments on animals
is negligible. He suggested that “ rats and such vermin ’ ’
constitute the material for experimental research, and
completely forgot to mention dogs, horses, apes, and other
animals. '

At the conclusion of Sir Leonard Rogers’ lecture Miss
Lind-af—Hageby rose and asked the Chairman if she could
put a few questions. After some commotion and the
conclusion of some short speeches on the platform, Miss
Lind—af-Hageby said, “ As the last Royal Commission on
Vivisection has been mentioned by the lecturer, may I, as
one of the witnesses before that Commission and as one,
whom the late Mr. Stephen Paget used to ask questions
after her lectures, put some questions to you".2 I take
it that I am one of those, who, at a previous meeting of
this Society were classed as ‘mentally deﬁcient ’ (this
remark elicited some laughter). I am the Hon. Director
and Founder of the Animal Defence and Anti-Vivisection
Society, a Society which is 26 years old and which, there-
fore, is closely concerned with the subject of the lecture

48




(no reply from the Chair). The Royal Commission on
Vivisection has been mentioned here. Is the Society
aware that the Royal Commission stated that limits should
be placed to animal suffering in the search for physiola
gical or pathological knowledge “.3 Has the Research
Defence Society acted in accordance with that recommen—
dation “.2 And further that the Royal Commission stated
that a certain professor whose name I will not mention
here (loud laughter from the students present) should not
be granted a licence to experiment because of. the things
he said before the Commission on the subject of having
inﬂicted pain on animals, and that he considered it per-
fectly right to inﬂict pain on animals ”.1 There have been
some sneers in the lecture at mid-Victorian moralists, and
at the people who started the Anti-Vivisection movement,
by which I presume is meant such opponents of vivisection
as Tennyson, Browning, Ruskin, Dickens and Queen
Victoria ? May I ask if the Society recognises no moral
obligation in the treatment of animals “.3

“ Further, is the Society aware that the Anti-Vivisection
movement has become more and more a defence of
humanity? The lecturer stated that the whole of pro-
gress in modern medicine depended on experiments on
animals. Is he aware that millions of people are turning
away from this Medicine to the so-called ‘ quacks,’ to
nature-cure, homoeopathy, osteopathy, and that this will be
bad for the economics of you all “.3

I “I further ask if the Society is aware of the cruel.
revolting and sometimes sadistic (laughter and resent—
ment) experiments which are performed on animals “.3

“ I further ask the Society if it is aware of the fact that
experiments on animals lead directly to experiments on
helpless human beings, on the poor and on children “.3 Of
this we have evidence. You can all come to Bond Street
and see it. ' I have had a hospital for children run on
my own lines for years, and I am particularly interested
in children.

“I further ask this: The. lecturer has told us a great
deal about the painlessness of erperiments on animals. I
have seen the Pasteur and the Rockefeller Institutes, and
I know what I am talking about. If these experiments
are so painless, why are we not allowed to go into the
laboratories .9 May I challenge any one of you here who
is a director of a laboratory, where animals are experi-
mented on, to let me in now ? ”

49

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Sir Leonard Rogers said he was glad to reply, but
no reply came forth. Instead he produced a statement,
issued by a Society with which Miss Lind-af-Hageby has
no connection, and loudly inquired whether she. approved
of it. She answered that she knew nothing about this
statement. Sir Leonard Rogers then appeared somewhat
excited and, shaking the document in question, called out :
“ Upon this you have got a million signatures of ladies ! ”
He insisted: “ Do you agree or do you not agree with the
statement “2 ” Miss Lind-af-Hageby: “ I should have to
study the statement carefully before I could answer your
question.” Sir Leonard Rogers: “ Do you accuse us all
of sadism ”.2 ” Miss Lind-af—Hageby: “ No, not all, but
some of you.” Sir Leonard Rogers: “ Nobody can be a
consistent anti-vivisectionist who is not a Christian
Scientist or a vegetarian, are you a Christian Scientist “.1 ”
Miss Lind-af-Hageby: “ No I ” Sir Leonard Rogers:
"' Then you accept the fruits of experimental Medicine
when you need medical help “.3 ” Miss Lind-af—Hageby:
“ Certainly not, I consider those ‘ fruits ’ dangerous and
not helpful.”

The Alleged Painlessness of Experiments on Animals.
Dr. Beddow Bayly recently gave the following instances of
painful experiments performed within the. last twelve
years :—— '

 

(a) Injection of boiling water into the pancreatic artery of a dog
until it became unconscious through the pain.1

(6) Production of intestinal obstruction in dogs by tying oﬁ the
intestinal canal w' h tape at various points from the stomach down-
wards. No foetfz or water given for forty-eight hours before the
operation, nor until they died.2

(0) Water in excessive amounts pumped into the stomachs of
dogs and cats until vomiting, convulsions and death occurred.3

((1) Removal of adrenal glands from pregnant bitches, with con-
sequent vomiting, yelling ﬁts, tetanic spasms, convulsions at
intervals, with birth of puppies and eventual death.‘1

,/ (6) Injection of faeces into the peritoneal cavities of pregnant
bitches, causing acute peritonitis, convulsions and death.

(f) Closing the anal canal of pregnant bitches with purse-string
sutures, so as to prevent the passage of anything from the bowel,
while feeding continued, the animals lingering as long as eleven
days before dying or being killed.5

(9) Investigation of “ question whether pain and trauma can
produce shock in. experimental animals,” in the course of which
sensitive organs were crushed and sciatic nerve stimulated at two-
minute intervals for one and a-half hours, until ‘ ‘ central nervous
system shock supervened.” Some of the dogs used were only given
morphia, a drug which stimulates the sensitivity to pain in these
animals, instead of dulling it.“




(h) Experiments in starvation, in deprivation of water,7 in run-
ning to death in motor-driven revolving cages,8 in exposure to high-
temperatures,9 to poison-gases and various infections,10 and in the
injection of poisons and disease products which result in a painful
and lingering death—these are becoming so numerous and varied
that one is left wondering if ingenuity could devise any new
method of inﬂicting torture, until the perusal of a fresh report from
a research laboratory shows anew to what base ends the imagination
of man .may be prostituted.

REFERENCES.

1. American Journal of Physiology, March, 1924. 2. Journal of
Experimental Medicine, Vol. xlviii, 1928. 3. Lancet, October 13th,
1923, p. 838. 4. American Journal of Physiology, January, 1927.
5. Lancet, May 24th, 1930, p, 1115. 6. American. Journal of
Physiology, June, 1918, p. 314:. 7. Medical Press, November 28th,
1928. 8. American Journal“ of Physiology, September, 1927.
9. Archives :of Pathology, Vol. viii, No. 4, October, 1929. 10. Con—
tinually performed at present day at the experimental station,
Porton, England.

The publications of the Society on the subject of vivi-
section provide complete evidence of the inﬂiction of pain.

Anti - Vivisection Publications. —-—- In February the
pamphlet entitled A Survey of the Case Against Vivi-
section, signed by ten medical men and women, was sent
from the Society’s ofﬁce to 1,600 licensees under the
Vivisection Act. One reply was received, addressed to the
Hon, Director of the Society. It came in a bulky registered
envelope and contained burnt-out matches, torn pieces of
paper, advertisements of cigarettes and an advertisement
of a book on the action of drugs on cells. Amongst articles
on Vivisection and Medical Practice published during the
year were H omonpathy and Vivisection, by E. Petrie
Hoyle, M.D.; The Science of Health: The Defence of
Humanity, by L. Lind-af-Hageby; Vivisection Experiments
on the Teeth and Jaws of Animals, by W. Weyeneth, M.D.;
Avertin: The New Anaesthetic, by M, Beddow-Bayly,
M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P.; Farewell to Lady Iodine, by Lt.-Col.
J. F. Donegan, O.B., LL.D.; Vengeance, by E. Douglas
Hume; Who Killed Cermah ? by Robert Logan; Childbirth
Mortality, by L. Lind~af~Hageby ; Pernicious Anaemia, by
M. Beddow Bayly, M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P.

The constructive side of anti-vivisection was stressed as
usual, methods of prevention and cure of diseases which
are independent of or antithetical to vivisectional research
were brought forward on every suitable occasion. In The
Science of Health: The Defence of Humanity, issued in
pamphlet form, Miss Lind—af-Hageby wrote :-—~

51

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

The attempts on the part of the supporters of vivi-
sectionist laboratory Medicine to label opponents of
experiments on animals “ enemies of humanity,” would
be wholly ludicrous were they not fraught with such
tragic consequences. Vivisectionist theories applied to
human subjects either in the form of experiment—open
or camouﬂaged—or “ preventative ” treatment, inﬂict
such serious injury and suﬁ‘ering that the defence of
humanity is now inseparable from the defence of animals.

Black and White Medicine. She added :—

I have on many occasions drawn attention to two
diametrically opposed systems of Medicine, the principles
and proceedings of which we can trace 'and follow
throughout the ages. The one I call——for purposes of
simple generalisation—~Black Medicine, and the other
White Medicine.

The Black Medicine ignores the laws of Nature, denies
the spirit, ﬂouts the moral law. It seeks by unnatural
and devious ways, by artiﬁcial creation of disease and
disorder, to arrive at conclusions which are simple and;
self-evident to the intelligent student of Nature’s laws of
health. Experiment and again experiment is the cry of
the adherents of this school. The material—animal and
human—must be provided at all costs. H ugc institutes oﬁ
medical research, of bacteriological and surgical experi.
mentation—richly endowed, magniﬁcently housed—bear
testimony to the success with which this school has cap-
tured the public, imagination ( and purse).

She directed; public attention to the new ﬁlth—therapy,

 

by which maggots are bred and cultivated to feed in

human wounds, urine is used as medicine, pus and
diseased blood from tormented animals are held in high
favOur as preventative and curative agents.

Medical Freedom.~—~In June, 1933, a. Memorial was

presented to the Lord President of the Privy Council by
the People’s League of Medical Freedom. Miss Lind-af—

Hageby, a Vice-President of the League, was one of the
signatories. The Memorial expressed a point of View
which is ﬁnding ever-increasing support from those Who
are conversant With the errors recorded in the history
of Medicine and who demand recognition of sound prin-
ciples of prevention and cure of disease.

The Memorial contained the following :—

From time to time applications for Royal Charters of Incor-
poration are made to the Privy Council by various organisations

52

 
   
   
 
  
  
 
  
  
   
   
 
 
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
 
 
 
  
 
   




practising systems of Medicine other than that commonly prac-
tised by registered doctors. '

We regret that hitherto these applications have not been
favourably entertained by the Privy Council, and the object of
this Memorial is to urge upon the Council various reasons why a
more sympathetic attitude should be extended to such applications.

The present arrangement under which Medical registration is
conﬁned to one school of Medicine (viz. the allopathic) constitutes
a virtual monopoly. It is submitted that monopoly in Medicine
is as bad as any other form of monopoly. It is bad for the
public in that it limits them to one school of Medicine, and it
is bad for medical progress in that it destroys incentive to
investigation and reform other than that favoured by the
dominant school.

The history of Medicine shows that the remedies of one genera-
tion of allopathic doctors usually become the laughing stock of
the next. To protect orthodoxy by preferential legislation is
therefore to protect incompetency to the grave injury of the public.

Medicine is an art, as well as a science, and the natural gifts
of healing possessed by not a few men and women ought not to
be stifled or thwarted in their expression. Many of the most
important remedies used in what is now orthodox Medicine were
discovered or introduced by men outside the ranks of the regular
doctors. The “ expert knowledge ” of the highly trained doctor
is as likely to be “ quackery ” as any of the forms of treatment
so dubbed. This is proved by the existence of the rival systems
of “ allopathy ” and “ homoeopathy.” In the eyes of the “‘ allo-
paths ” the “ homoeopaths ” are quacks, and in the eyes of
“ homoeopaths ” the “ allopaths ” are blind leaders of the blind,
When regular doctors so diﬂer it is surely obvious that the patient
should be left to decide which form of treatment he wishes to
accept, whether that of the orthodox or unorthodox doctor, and
that he ought not to be compelled by the State to accept a form
of treatment in which he has no faith.

The Question of Quackery.——Strong criticism of the
orthodox methods of physicians and surgeons was made by
Mr. R. Stuart Rodger, the Manchester County Coroner,
on September 26th, 1933. The occasion was an inquest
on a girl, Eunice Arstall, aged six, who had been treated
by Mr. C. A. Abbott, a physico-medical practitioner. The
jury had returned a verdict of “Death from Natural
Causes,” and added a rider that they considered that a
medical practitioner should have been called at an earlier
stage, when the Coroner said:-———

“ How many celebrated surgeons dare publish their case sheets!
Orthodox Medicine is not the last word in healing.

“ Registered practitioners nowadays rely solely on laboratory-[made
drags, vaccines, and glandular preparations.

. “ A graduate of the Faculty of Medicine requires six years’
intensive study to memorise thousands of facts and scores of theories
many of which are not co-ordinated.

53

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

“ Does this memory feat of book knowledge entitle him to
experiment immediately on the human beings without a practical
apprenticeship in the art of healing .9

“ Herbalists may or may not be ignorant quacks, so also may
be those who are members of the medical trade union.

“ Should an authorised bonesetter assist an wnauthorised one he
is struck a]? the roll for unprofessional conduct.”

In November, 1933, it was announced that Nature Cure
practitioners would be granted the same status in Germany
as fully qualiﬁed doctors by a new law. Herr Rudolf Hess,
Hitler’s deputy, speaking at a meeting of Bavarian Nature
Healers at Munich, said :———

‘ ‘ I have had experience of the value of natural healing on my
own body, and it would be a crime against the German people if
I did not do all in my power to give this system of healing the
position it deserves.

“ Science admits that it is faced with failure, The natural
remedy, it seems to me, is to return to Mother Nature, our spring
and source of knowledge.”

Arrangements were made for the institution of pro-
fessorships of Nature Cure Healing in the Universities of
Berlin, Cologne and Munich and for Nature Cure Healers
to undergo a course of three years’ training.

Award of Prizes in the Dental Counter-Competition
Organised by the International Bureau of Geneva.———In
the Report for the year 1932 of the work of your Society,
an account was given of the Dental Competition, initiated
by the International Dental Federation, and of the
Counter-Competition organised by the Society’s Inter-
national Bureau in Geneva. The International Dental
Federation had offered a prize of a thousand dollars and
a gold medal " for the winner in competitive research based
on cruel experiments on the teeth of dogs. The dogs were
to have nerves and pulps of teeth extracted, the root
canals/ infected with streptococcus viridens taken from
septic human teeth. Some of the teeth were to be left
untreated, whilst others were to be treated. The animals-
,r’were to be killed a year and a-half after termination of the
' studies made of the teeth. Competitors must send in

reports of their research not later than August 1st, 1935.
World-wide indignation was expressed against these
experiments.

On July 19th, 1933, Miss Lind-af-Hageby, President of
the International Humanitarian Bureau of Geneva, issued
a statement containing the follOwing :—-— ' ‘

The International Humanitarian Bureau of Geneva
(4, Cour St. Pierre) offered 3 Prizes, a 1st Prize of £300,

54




a 2nd of £50, and a 3rd of £25 for the best essays by
qualiﬁed dentists on the subject of the uselessness and
cruelty of these experiments and the best means of
preventing dental decay in man.

Fifty-two dentists, representing sixteen countries, have
sent in essays. The Prizes were awarded on July 19th,
1933, as follows: lst Prize, Dr. Gaston Guérard (Dieppe),
Doctor of the University of Paris, Professor of Operative
Dentistry and of Human and Comparative Dental
Anatomy at the Dental School of France (Ecole Odonto—
technique de Paris), Surgeon Dentist of the Faculty of
Medicine of Paris, Vice-President of the Anatomical
Section of the Eighth International Dental Congress
(Medal of the Ministry of Hygiene, Medal of l’Assistance
Publique). 2nd Prize, Dr. J. Sim Wallace, M.D., D.Sc.,
L.D.S., F.A.C.D. (London), Lecturer on Preventive
Dentistry, King’s College Hospital, London, formerly
Dental Surgeon and Lecturer on Dental Surgery, London
Hospital, Author of The Physiology of Oral Hygiene,
Cause and Prevention of Decay in Teeth, The Prevention
of Dental Caries, Teeth and Health, Dental Disease and
Public Health, etc. 3rd Prize, Dr. Charmack (Berlin-
Steglitz). ‘

Supplementary prizes of special distinction (£20 to each
recipient) have also been awarded to Dr. med. Anton
Lantschner (Berndorf, Austria), lately attached to the
Dental Clinic of the University of Graz; to Mr. F. W.
Broderick, M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P., L.D.S. (London), Hon.
Dental Surgeon to the National Sanatorium for Diseases
of the Chest, Bournemouth, Hon. Dental Physician to the
Royal Victoria and “Test Hants Hospital, Bournemouth,
Cartwright Prizeman of the Royal College of Surgeons of
England, 1926-31, and to Monsieur L. Favre, Licentiate in
Dental Surgery (Dornach, Switzerland).

Honourable mention and complimentary prizes have also
been awarded to the following: Dr. med. Heinrich Alter
(Vienna); Dr. W. Baumbach (Salach, Wiirttemberg); Mr.
F. Breese, L.D.S. (London); Dr. Robert H. Brotman
(Baltimore, U.S.A.), contributor of numerous articles to
dental journals; Mr. G. Leslie Curnock, L.D.S., R.C.S.
(Epping, England); Dr. F. Gutmann (S-traubing, Bavaria);
Lt.-Colone1 Albert J. Maurice (London), L.D.S., of the
Royal College of Surgeons of Edinburgh, Fellow of the
Society of Medicine, formerly Editor of The Dental
Surgeon, Hon. Dental Surgeon to the Belgrave Hospital
for Children, Londqn, the London Lock Hospital, Dental

55

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Surgeon to the Royal. St. Anne ’s Schools, etc; Dr. Louis
Ottofy (Oakland, California, U.S.A.), Editor of Inter—
national Dental Review, Author of Outlines of Dental.
Pathology, Contributor to American Text Book of
Operative Dentistry, Editor of Standard Dental
Dictionary, etc. ;. Dr. George E. Payne Philpots
(Melbourne, Australia), D.D.S., of the University of
Pennsylvania; Dr. med. Joseph Rado (Hodmezovasarhely,
Hungary); Dr. med. Otto Schmidt (Berlin); Dr. Emil
Schreier (Vienna); Dr. Paul Thorin (Paris); Dr. Julian
C. Wesscl (Philadelphia, USA); and Dr. med. William
VVeyeneth (Ziirich). ’

it should be noted that the money given in prizes did not
come from the funds of the Animal Defence Society, but
was due to the generosity of friends and supporters, who
gave special donations for the purpose. The Geneva Bureau
gave world-wide publicity to the Counter-Competition and
the Press of many countries gave splendid help. The Press
cuttings afford evidence of What can be accomplished
against evils which seem safely enthroned and apparently
impregnable.

From Geneva many thousands of letters were sent out
to dentists in different countries and to the Press protesting
against the competition and announcing the Counter—
Competition. Mrs. Mordan, Secretary of the Bureau,
conducted a formidable correspondence on the subject.
Many societies joined in the protest. Men and women
famous in the world of politics, literature and art
denounced the competition. Many of the dentists who
took part in the Counter~Competition were men holding
prominent positions in their profession. It had been"
announced that English, French or German could be used
by the competitors. Comparing and judging these essays
became an arduous task. The Bureau had expert helpers:
in Paris, London, Geneva and Ziirich. Miss Lind-af—Hageby
undertook several journeys and much labour in support
of the Counter-Competition in which she took the initiative.

The International Dental Federation Meets in
Edinburgh: Question Asked and No Reply. The annual
meeting of the International Dental Federation washeld
in Edinburgh on July 23rd—29th, 1933.

In view of the misleading statements made by Dr. Nord
which appeared in certain British newspapers announcing
that the International Dental Federation had abandoned
the competition, based on experiments on the teeth of

56

 

 




 

dogs,’ Miss Lind-af-Hageby wrote a letter containing a
question addressed to the International Dental Federation.
The letter appeared in The Scotsman of July 24th :-——

EXPERIMENTS ON DOGS. .
Geneva, July 18th, 1983'.

SLR,~——In view of the approaching meeting of the Inter—
national Dental Federation in Edinburgh, humanitarians
all over the world will wish to put a question to those
respOnsible for the conduct and policy of the Federation.
The question is this-——Are you now prepared to cancel
the competition initiated by you, and conﬁrmed by your
Dental Congress held in Zilrich in 1932, under which
experiments on the teeth of dogs are the basis of competitive
re’Search, and the winner is to be awarded a prize of 1,000
dollars and a gold medal? ' i'

We know that during recent years there have been .
numerous dental experiments on the teeth of dogs,‘
monkeys, and other animals, for they are recorded, in
details of disease and suffering caused, by dental journals.
These experiments have been encouraged and sustained by
the Research Section of the International Dental Federa—
tion. . The protests which have been made against the
competition include those of many dentists, who have
watched the increase in dental experiments on animals
with dismay, and who regard them as misleading and
detrimental to the true interests of dental science.

The International Humanitarian Bureau in Geneva will
now publish the results of the counter-competition
organised by the Bureau. The Bureau invited qualiﬁed"
dentists to send essays on the subject of the uselessneSs_
and 'cruelty of the experiments encouraged by the Inter-
national Dental Federation and on the best means of
preventing dental decay in man. Fifty-two dentists, repre-'
senting sixteen nations, have done so. Amongst others
who in Geneva 'signed protests against these experiments
were the Right Hon. Arthur Henderson, Monsieur Herriot,
Monsieur’PauLBoncour, HH. the Aga Khan, General Italo
Balbo, Mensieur Carton de Wiart, Monsieur Titulesco, and“
many other delegates to the League of Nations—«I am, &'c..,.

L. LIND-AF-HAGEBY,
President, International Humanitarian Bureau.

The Manchester Guardian—always a friend and consis-
tent supporter of humanitarian _ movements—published a
similar letter from her on July ,21st. A sentence Which

57

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

had been omitted in The Scotsman was included in the
Manchester Guardian. That sentence was the following :
“ Dr. B. Gotth’eb of Vienna, late Secretary of this Section
(Research Section of the I.D.F.) has been particularly active
in the execution and promotion of such experiments.”

On the same day the Glasgow Herald published the
letter. It is, therefore, clear that the question asked cannot
have escaped the notice of the organisers of the meeting of
the Federation. Dr. Nord was present in Edinburgh but
did not ﬁnd it convenient to reply to this direct question.
He found time, however, for proposmg the toast of the
City of Edinburgh at the ofﬁcial banquet of the Federation
attended by 150 ladies and gentlemen.

“ Dr. Ch. F. L. Nord, proposing the toast of ‘ The City of
Edinburgh,’ said they wanted to come to the capital of Scotland
because they knew it was the beautiful city of Burns, Scott,
Stevenson, and many others, and they knew it was the city of Guy,
Radford and Campbell.

Coming to Edinburgh they knew they would ﬁnd the spirit they
knew the Scots to deal with, and Spirits which they perhaps did not
know how to deal with.

Why did the Scotsman want to let the world think that the
meanness of which he seemed to be so proud was an inferiority
complex when in truth it was a superiority complex? Sufﬁcient
tribute was it to the Scots and the Edinburgh people for him to
say that the present meeting was one of the best they had had in
any part of the world.”

It was Dr. Nord who in a letter dated February 6th,
1933, stated that the Federation at its meeting in Ziirich
in 1932 had modiﬁed the original conditions of the Compe-
tition so as to omit experiments on dogs—a statement
obviously absurd in View of the fact that the basis of the
Competition was the use of living dogs. It was Dr. Nord
who complained of “ lies,” “ abuse,” and “ slander,” and
yet was incapable of substantiating the statement which he
made with the object of arresting public protests and con-
veying the impression that nothing objectionable was taking
place. “ If you can refer me to any resolution adopted, or
any formal decision taken by the International Federation
cancelling this Dental Competition,” wrote Miss
Lind-af—Hageby to Dr. Nord on January 27th, 1933, “ I
hereby undertake to give wide publicity to this fact.”

Needless to say Dr. Nord could not furnish evidence of
any cancelling of the Competition.

The International Dental Federation showed a self-
sufﬁclency and disregard of public opinion which may not

prove proﬁtable in the long run. The following letter,
58




addressed to Dr. George Villain, President of the Federa-
tion, who presided at the Edinburgh meeting, also received
no reply:
“ The Animal Defence &Anti—Vivisection Society,

35, Old Bond Street, London, W1.

To the President,

International Dental Federation,
Minto House, Edinburgh.

Sir,

In view of the international Research Competition,
involving experiments on the teeth of dogs, coming up for
further consideration at the I.D.F. Annual Meeting over
which you preside, we wish to remind you of the world-wide
indignation aroused by this Competition, emanating from
the Research Section of your Federation. Nothing has
more forcibly brought home to the public the painful
nature of the research work on living animals, as carried
out to-day, and the general feeling of revolt against such
cruelties, clothed in the garb of Science, has been strongly
expressed in the international Press. You are already
aware of the fact that strong opposition to the I.D.F.
Research Competition exists within the dental profession
itself. This opposition found expression at your Inter-
national Congress in Ziirich in August, 1932, and has been
supported in the dental Press. Among the large section of
dentists who view the I.D.F. research scheme with strong
disapproval on the ground of its cruelty as well as its
futility from the points of view of scientiﬁc achievement
and practical results are leading members of your pro-
fession, whose opinion is entitled to the consideration of
the Research Section of the I.D.F. and of your Federation
as a whole. In evidence of this fact we draw your attention
to the statement issued by the International Humanitarian
Bureau in Geneva, announcing the result of the Dental
Counter-Competition arranged by that organisation.
Among the prize winners who have. sent in Essays, dealing
with the cruelty and scientiﬁc futility of the I.D.F.
Research Competition and the prevention of dental decay
in man are some of the most prominent representatives of
the dental profession in this and other countries.

We may, therefore, claim that we represent not only the
organised humanitarian movement throughout the world,
but also the general public, the Press, and a considerable
section of your profession, in addressing the following
question to you as president of the I.D.F. Annual Meeting :

59

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Are you now prepared to cancel the Competition. initiated
by you and conﬁrmed by your Dental Congress held in
Ziirich in 1932, under which cruel experiments on the teeth
of dogs are the basis of competitive research and the Winner
is to be awarded a prize of 1,000 dollars and a gold medal?

Enlightened and humane people throughout the world
will await a reply to this question from your Federatlon.

Believe us,
Yours faithfully,

N. HAMILTON AND BRANDON, L. LIND-AF-HAGEBY,
' President. Hon. Director.
July 22nd, 1933.”

A Letter to Dr. F ish,———To make doubly sure that the
ofﬁcials of the Meeting of the International Dental
Federation should apprehend the question asked, another
letter was sent to the Englishman, Dr. E. W. Fish :—-~

“ The Animal Defence _& Anti-Vivisection Society,

. 35, Old Bond Street, London, “7.1.
Dr. E. W. Fish,
Secretary of the Research Section of the I.D.F., Inter-
national Dental Federation Annual Meeting, Minto House,
Edinburgh.
Sir,

We have addressed the following question to the
President of the International Dental Federation Annual
Meeting: Are you now prepared to cancel the Competition
initiated by you and conﬁrmed by your Dental Congress
held in Ziirich in 1932, under which cruel experiments on
the teeth of dogs are the basis of competitive research and

_ the Winner is to be awarded a prize of 1,000 dollars and a
gold medal ”.3

This question equally concerns you in your capacity of
Secretary to the Research Section of the I.D.F. and we ask
you to give it your serious consideration.

You are aware of the existing strong opposition on the
part of the public, the Press and a considerable section of
the dental profession to the Research Competition involv-
ing prolonged and painful experiments on the teeth of dogs.
This opposition is based on moral revolt and on a
recognition of the uselessness of the experiments involved
from the points of view of scientiﬁc accuracy of results, and
of practical beneﬁt to humanity. The divergence of
opinion on the scientiﬁc value of the I.D.F. Research Com-
petition is proved by the fact that among the prize winners
in the Dental Counter-Competition arranged by the

60

 




 

International Humanitarian Bureau in Geneva, and dealing
with the cruelty and futility of the proposed experiments
on dogs and the best means . of preventing dental decay
in man are such leading men in the dental profession as

Dr. Gaston Guérard, Dr. Sim Wallace, Mr; Broderick and
Mr. F. Breese.

We would urge on you as a scientist, and in the interest
of the branch of learning which you rﬂepresent that Science
[cannot be isolated from life as a whole, of which it is
merely one form of expression. True science must conform
to the moral standards of contemporary life. Apart from,
or in antagonism to, such standards Science can have no
right to exist and the fruits it brings forth will of necessity
perish. On this ground public opinion has condemned the
I.D.F. Research Competition, the conception of which is
in opposition to the moral consciousness of our time.

In the name of humanity and in the interest of true
sc1ent1ﬁc progress, we ask you to consider and to answer
our question.

Believe us,

Yours faithfully,

N. HAMILTON AND BRANDON, L. LIND-AF-HAGEBY,
President. Hon. Director.”

To this letter Dr. Fish replied on the notepaper of the
Federation Dentaii'e Internationale XXVIIth Session,
Edinburgh, July, 1933, with an attack, inspired by
considerable malice, on one of the prize-winners in the
Counter-Competition, and added :—

“ I am afraid you appear to be very sadly misinformed
not only as to the nature of the experiments to which you
refer, but also as to their purpose and the discomfort they
would produce on the dogs used; I am sure it will interest
you to know that there are no competitors at the moment.”

The Duchess of Hamilton and Miss Lind-af-Hageby then
wrote to Dr. Fish :-——~

“ Thank you f01 you1 letter of July 26th. We note that
you give no reply to the question in our letter to you
of July 22nd: ‘Is the Dental Federation prepared to
cancel the competition initiated by the Federation and
conﬁrmed by the Dental Congi ess held 1n Ziirich 1n 1932? ’ 3
You state that you are sure it will interest us to know
that there are no competitors at the moment.

“ Permit us to say that you cannot possibly make such
a statement on any foundation of accuracy or authority.

61

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Competitors need only send in the conclusions of their
experiments on the teeth of dogs before August lst, 1935,
and in the conditions published of the competition initiated
by the Federation there is not a sentence indicating that
competitors must inform the Federation of the commence-
ment or pursuance of their work. This equally applies to
the amendment added in Zitrich which we have before us.

“ On the other hand, we have ample evidence of the
performance of cruel experiments on the teeth of dogs and
other animals, experiments similar to those encouraged by
your Federation and carried out among others by Dr.
Go-ttlieb of Vienna, closely and ofﬁcially associated with
your Research Section.

“ In view of the misleading statements which have been
made with the object of allaying public anxiety and resent-
ment of dental experiments productive of pain and suffer—
ing in animals we intend shortly to publish this evidence. ’ ’

Dr. Fish, who is licensed to perform experiments on
animals under the Vivisection Act of 1876, wrote (on
July 31st) :—

“ I feel sure you do not escpect me to encourage your
curiosity by discussing the future plans of the Inter-
national Dental Fefderation with you.”

And he added——

“ I do not very much relish the suggestion that we
have been guilty of any misleading statements. I can
assure you that if we were as inaccurate in our processes
of thought and in our statements as seme of your colleagues
the realities of our work would very quickly call us to

order. ’ ’

The Nature of the Experiments.~—-In view of the state-
ment by Dr. Fish it is necessary to recall once again the
conditions of the Dental Competition :——~

The following announcement of the competition inaugurated by
the International Dental Federation and oﬂering a prize of 1,000
dollars and a gold medal, appeared in the Zahnc'iretlichen Ri-lndschau
(Berlin), November 29th, 1931 (No. 48 page 2,146} and in the
Schweie. Zeitschrift fur Zahnheillcunde of December 31st, 1931:

“ Two dogs aged between one and two years are required for
the histological and bacteriological experiment for the control of
the method of treating the roots of teeth. Teeth Nos. 3, 6, 8 of
the lower jaw shall be used for the experiment. On one side the
roots of the uninfected teeth shall be treated. On the other side, the
whole of the nerves (pulp) shall be extracted and the canals infected
with streptococcus viridens taken from septic human teeth and its
virulence for dogs guaranteed. The bacteriologist Who carries out
the later examination shall set aside the tested culture, be present at
the introduction of the bacteria into the teeth and mark the animals

62

 




 

for purposes of later identiﬁcation. In addition to the above teeth,
both upper third incisors shall also be infected, after extraction 0f
the nerves. The teeth shall be stopped with special ﬁllings. After
at least three months have elapsed, X-ray photographs shall be taken
of the infected teeth. As soon as inﬂammation appears round the
apices of the teeth treatment may be begun. Both upper No. 3
teeth shall be left untreated throughout in order to facilitate
haematogenous infection. from these parts. A year and a half after
termination of the treatment Xoray photographs shall again be taken
and the animals killed. On one animal Nos, 6 and 8 on both. sides
shall undergo a histological and both Nos. 3 of the lower jaw a
bacteriological examination. On the second animal both lower Nos. 3
shall be used for histological, and both Nos. 6 and 8 for bacterio-
logical purposes. In addition to the above-mentioned teeth of the
lower jaw, both upper Nos. 6 and both infected untreated upper
Nos. 3 shall be used for. the examination. Of these control teeth
one half shall be examined histologically, the other half bacterio-
logically_

“ For the bacteriological examination the root tips shall be
separated from the teeth in a strictly aseptic manner, pulverised
and used for the preparation of cultures. The tissue round the
apices of the teeth shall be removed and used for the same purpose.
The bacteriological examination shall follow the method indicated
by Rosenow. The bacteriological examination must be carried out
by a recognised bacteriologist attached to a University. For the
histological examinations various research laboratories may be called
in which are familiar with such work. The material for the histo-
logical examination must include the root tips and the surrounding
tissue. The preparations must be as far as possible divided into
separate sealed sections.

“ Candidates entering for the competition must send in their
work with an exact description of the method of treatment and
including the histological sections and the bacteriological ﬁndings
to the President of the Scientiﬁc Commission of the I.D.F. not later
than August lst, 1935, Before then the deﬁnite composition of the
Board of judges _will be settled according to the proposal of the
Scientiﬁc Commission of the Executive Council of the I.D.F. This
latter body shall be empowered to exert every kind of supervision
and especially to determine whether the proposed methods can be
carried out in actual practice. The distribution of the prize shall
take place as soon as the examination results have been decided by
the Board of Judges.

‘ ‘ Further information may be obtained from Dozent Dr. B.
Gottlieb (Vienna, IX, Tiirkenstrasse 15).”

World-Wide hidignation.——So many people are familiar
with the pains and miseries of toothache that the announce—
ment of the Dental Competition with its cruel experiments
on dogs caused anger and indignation such as have seldom
been manifested in connection with the deeds of vivisectors.
The Report of your Society for 1932 gave a list of some of
the representative objectors to the Competition, which
included: Monsieur Herriot, Prime Minister of France;
Monsieur Paul-Boncour, Minister for War of France;
Monsieur Painlevé, Minister for Air of France; the Rt.

63

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Hon; Arthur Henderson, President of the Conference for
the Reduction and Limitation of Armaments; MonSIeur
Avenol, the Secretary~General of the League of Nations;

'H.H.'The Aga Khan; Monsieur Titulesco, Prime Minister

of Roumania ; Monsieur Politis, Head of the Greek Delega—
tion to the League of Nations. Mr, John Galsworthy

wrote a letter of. strong protest which was published.

The Press and the Award of the Prizes.~—-——The Geneva
newspapers gave valuable publicity to the Counter-
‘Competition. The Journal de Genéve, La Suisse and La-
Tribune de Geneue immediately published Miss Lind-af—
Hageby’s announcement of the prizes awarded. ~La
Tribune, always sympathetic, described the world-wide
indignation roused by the competition and La Suisse wrote
of the moral reaction caused. Amongst other newspapers
which announced the result of the Geneva Bureau Counter-
Competition and commented thereon were: Daily Mail
(London and Paris Editions), Sunday Express, Daily

-Mirror, Manchester Guardian, Glasgow Herald, Scotsman,

The Vaccination Inquirer, Le Petit Parisien, Journal des
Débats, Gringoire, The Central European Times, Dental
Journal, Le De’fenseur des Animauas, Der Tierfreund
(Vienna), Bulletin of Ligue Internationale Anti-
vivisectionniste, Bulletin of Société Frangaise d’Education
Humanitaire et Société Protectrice des Animaux (Colmar
Ht-Rhin), Tierrecht und‘ Tierschutz (Berlin), Ibis (Berlin),
Dagens N yheter (Stockholm), Falu-Kuriren, AarhuspOsten,
Kristeligt Dagblad, Retsstats Bladet, Afholdsdagbladet,
Ekstrabladet, 0estsjaellands Folkeblad, Midtfyns Dlagblad,
Villabyernes Blad, Aarhuus Stiftstidende, Scienza e
Coscienza (Bologna), Der Viuisektionsgegner (Berne).

A The New Fashion of Revolting Experiments on the
Teeth of Dogs—The public, and especially all who avail
themselves of the services of dentists, should know that,
apart from the Dental Competition, which has been stig-
matised as cruel and useless, experiments on the teeth of
animals are now carried on in this and other countries.
The Royal Dental Hospital in London is one of the places

where Such experiments are carried out and Mr. E. W.

Fish is one of the vivisectors. The article entitled
.Vfivisection Experiments on the Teeth and Jaws of Animals
by ‘ W. Weyeneth, M.D. (D‘ent. Ziirich), which has been
published in pamphlet form, gives a list and description of
such experiments which have been recorded in dental
journals. '

64

 




 

Value of Prize Essays.-—-—The 21 prize essays of the
Dental Counter-Competition will be published by the
International Humanitarian Bureau. The essays are of
the greatest interest, for they do not only contain destruc-
tive criticism of experiments on animals in relation to the
prevention of dental decay in man, but offer facts and-
teachz'ng relating to hygiene and the preservation of teeth,
which are of the utmost importance.

Dogs Saved from Vivisection Laboratory in Geneva.”
In February, 1983, the help of Mrs. Mordan, Secretary
of the International Humanitarian Bureau, was‘asked to
save a dog from a Research Institute in Geneva. The dog
had been bought without any indication being given of
the objects for which he was purchased.

The laboratory attendant had pretended that the dog
was wanted for a country house and did not mention
the fact that he was intended for vivisectional research.

After thorough investigation of the case, Mrs. Mordan
called on the Director, who ﬁrst tried to deny the fact
that such a dog had been acquired by him. As proofs
were produced by Mrs. Mordan, he was ﬁnally forced to
admit that he had been experimenting 0n the dog, and
asked her to come to the Institute the following day, when
he would further discuss the matter.

In the meantime Mrs. Mordan was told of another dog
who had been bought under similar circumstances.

The follOWing day Mrs. Mordan accompanied by
Mademoiselle Koeune, called at the appointed time and
claimed the two dogs. She had witnesses waiting and
ready to corroborate her statement.

The chief Medical Assistant explained the impossibility
of giving the dogs up especially as one was actually being
experimented on. When Mrs. Mordan explained to him
the consequences of such refusal he called in the Director
who reluctantly gave his permission to release the two
dogs wanted. Monti, the dog who had been experimented
on, suffered in consequence from a suppurating growth
in the groin. He had to receive veterinary treatment and
1s still under the care of the Bureau in Geneva.

. Change of Address..——For many years past the general
inadequacy of space at 35, Old Bond Street, and the great
need. of premises more suitable for the ever-increasing
act1v1t1es of the Animal Defence Society had been acutely
felt. With the knowledge that the lease for the ofﬁces at
35, Old Bond Street would terminate early in 1934, persis-
tent efforts were made for some years to ﬁnd a suitable

65.
G

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

house. But though many were inspected all proved too
expensive. In the summer of 1933 your President and
Hon. Director found a house, freehold and for sale at a
reasonable price, which corresponded to the requirements
for adequate accommodation for ofﬁces, the Humane
Exhibition, Lecture Room, etc. Situated in the very heart
of London, in St. James ’3 Place, and Within a very short
distance of Old Bond Street, the house offered special
advantages. As the Society could not make itself respon-
sible for the purchase of the house the Duchess of Hamilton
and Miss Lind-af—Hageby decided to bear the responsi-
bility, and accordingly entered into negotiations for the
purchase. The arrangements being completed they entered
into possession on August 31st. In addition to the money
personally advanced by the Duchess of Hamilton and Miss
Lind-af—Hageby towards the sum required for the purchase
of the house, generous contributions were made by the
Duke of Hamilton, Mr. George Arliss, Mrs. George Arliss,
Mrs. BayleysWorthington, Lady Mary Savile, Sir Malcolm
McAlpine, Miss Helen Turner, Miss Enberg and Miss
Halliday. Of the money raised certain sums were donated,
others were invested in the house.

Speaking at the Annual Business Meeting of the Society,
held at 15, St. James’s Place, on November 27th, 1933,
the Duchess of Hamilton said that she cordially welcomed
the members and associates, who for the ﬁrst time had
assembled in the new premises of the Society. She spoke
of the cramped conditions in the Bond Street ofﬁces, with
consequent detriment to health, and added, “ Miss Lind-
af—Hageby and I have made ourselves responsible for this
move, for which, instead of paying rent, the Society will
pay rates and taxes. There will be unavoidable expenses
of removal and installation. But I trust that, whilst
the Society will have inﬁnitely greater advantages for
expansion of activities, the annual expenses of being
housed will eventually be less, not more, than in the old,
utterly inadequate quarters.

The house was as yet empty, for necessary repairs
and decorations were not completed. There was the
installation of central heating and a lift which precluded
an early removal. Meanwhile a special effort was made
to raise funds for the Society by means of a Bazaar,

The Animal Defenders at Home and Bazaar.——In_
September preparations were made for a Bazaar to be,
held in the new house on November 21st and 22nd.

66




A strong and resourceful Bazaar Committee was formed,
headed by the Duchess of Hamilton.

The Bazaar was under the patronage of the following :-—-

HE. the American Ambassador, HE. the Italian
Ambassador, HE. the Japanese Ambassador, HE. the
Spanish Ambassador, HE. the Danish Minister, HE. the
Countess Ahlefeldt Laurvig, HE. the Norwegian Minister, .
H.E. the Swiss Minister, HE. Madame Paravicini, Noury
Khan Isfandiary (Persian Legation), the Duchess of
Grafton, the Duke of Hamilton, the Duchess of Manchester,
the Duchess of Marlborough, the Lady Clare Annesley,
George Arliss, Esq., Mrs. George Arliss, the Lord Arundell
of Wardour, the Lady Arundell of Wardour, Mrs. Bayley-
Worthington, the Countess Beauchamp, the Viscount Bertie
of Thame, the Viscountess Bertie of Thame, Lady
Blomﬁeld, the Rev. Basil Bourchier, V. Bowring-Hanbury,
Esq., the Countess of Cassillis, the Rev. George Calvert
Carter, Mrs. Calvert Carter, Lady Childs, The Marquis of
Clydesdale, M.P., Celia Lady Congreve, Mrs. Congreve,
Lady Eyre Coote, Lady Cory, Miss B. C. Delius, the
Countess Alberti d’Enno, the Marchioness of Donegall, the
Lord Nigel Douglas-Hamilton, the Lord Malcolm Douglas-
Hamilton, the Lady Malcolm Douglas—Hamilton, the Lord
David Douglas-Hamilton, the Lady Margaret Drummond-
Hay, Lucy Lady Duff-Gordon, The Earl of Dundonald, the
Lady Agnes Durham, the Hon. Mrs. Forbes, Mrs. Glasgow,
the Rev. E. Goodchild, Madame Sarah Grand, the Earl of
Haddington, the Countess of Haddington, the Lord Howard
of Penrith, the Lady Howard of Penrith, Miss Jeffcock,
Miss Lind-af-Hageby, Miss Logan, Lady Lumb, Sir Robert
McAlpine, Sir Malcolm McAlpine, Lady McAlpine, Mrs.
Reginald McKenna, the Lady Jean Mackintosh, Mrs.
Mount Batten, Nina Countess of Northbrook, the Rt. Hon.
Sir Ralph Paget, the Dowager Countess of Plymouth, the
Lady Isobel Ryder, the Lady Mary Savile, the Viscountess
'Snowden of Ickornshaw, Lady Struthers, Mrs. Hedley
Thomson, The Marchioness of Tweeddale, Frances
Countess of Warwick, Lady Weigall, Sir Francis Young-
husband and Lady Younghusband.

The stalls were arranged as follows :-

The Greater Kinship Stall: The Duchess of Hamilton, Miss Lind-
af-Hageby, the Countess Beauchamp, Miss Delius, Mrs. W. F.
Lawrence, Miss Pennington, Nina Countess of Northbrook, Lady
Weigall, Mrs. M. E. Mordan; The Radiant Health Stall: Mrs.
Beddow Bayly, Mrs. Angus Macnaghten, Miss Faulkner, Mrs. John

67

 




 

 

 

 

 

Walter, Mrs. Fleming Baxter, Mrs. Gasque; Clothes without Cruelty
Stall : The Lady Muriel Willoughby, Lady Duff-Gordon, Lady
Chalmers, Miss Madge Graham, Miss Jeffcock, Miss Welland, Mrs.
Dunn ; Increase Your Wit Stall (Books): Miss Schartau, Miss Claire
Monk, Miss Iris Ryder, Miss Egerto-n, Miss Gibson; Products of
Paradise Stall (Fruit and Flowers): The Marchioness of Donegall,
the Hon. Margaret Best, O.B.E., the Lady Jean Mackintosh, the
Hon. Isabel Arundell, Miss Mary Carter, Miss Jean Cpombs; Faithful
Friends’ Requirements Stall: Hon. Mrs. Hanbury-Tracy, Mrs. Philip
Noble, Mrs. Topham, Miss H. Turner, Mrs. Burn Murdoch; Come and
Be Beautiful Stall (Skin Creams, Balms and Oils): Miss Ursula Gre-
ville; Y ale-Tide Cheer Stall: Lady Low, Miss Batlivala, Miss Carter,
Miss Priscilla Weigall, Mademoiselle Paravicini, Hon. Ursula Hanburyv'
Tracy; Travellers’ Jog: Mrs. Ernest Thesiger, Miss Greenwood,
Miss Lardelli, Miss Reeve, Mr. and Mrs. Douglas Spens Steuart, Miss
Lazarus, Miss Gray, Miss Granville; Transcend Your Breakages
Stall (Glass and China): The Lady Mary Savile, The Lady Rawlin-
son of Trent, Celia Lady Congreve; Home-Lovers’ Comforts Stall
(Household Goods): Mr. and Mrs. Staunton, Miss Staunton, Miss
Pollock, Miss Cozens-Brooke, Miss Upton, Mrs. Newte, Mrs. Cecil
Staunton, Miss Co.0per; Norway ’3 Gifts: Fru Dr. Geirsvold; Men
Friends’ Needs and the Bold Bad Smokers’ Corner: Lady Struthers,
Mrs. GeOﬂ’rey White, Mr. Godfrey Norris, Miss Lambert; Chelsea
Posies and Daisy Caps for Children: Miss Sybil Ashmore, Mrs.
O’Donnell; Toys and Happy Nonsense: Lady Childs, Miss Nora
Logan, Mrs. Savage, Miss Sibyl Poore, Miss Ailsa and Miss Joan
McNeill ; The Starving Man’s Resting Place (Tea and other Refresh-
ments): Mrs. fSwanberg, Miss Thornblad, Mrs. Le Marchant, Mrs.
de Maré, Mrs. Kihlstedt; “ Innocent Delicatessen”; Edible Mush-
room Exhibition; Parcels: Miss K. Mackintosh.

There was an auction of historic treasures such as the
gloves of King Charles II, said to have been worn at the
Battle of Worcester, presented to the bazaar by Mr. V.
Bowring-Hanbury in memory of his favourite dog
Monseigneur; Prince Charlie’s buckles worn during the
Battle of Culloden, presented to the Society by Mr. H.
Charrington. There were other attractive articles offered
for auction such as a unique Ming vase: presented by Mr.
and Mrs. Spens Steuart; a very ﬁne hand-painted ﬁre-
screen, presented by Mrs. Holmes; a necklace, presented
by Mrs. Congreve; a lovely set of turquoise ornaments,
presented by Miss Bosanquet; an antique Spanish em—
broidered leather card and dice box, presented by Miss
Izod; an Indian blue and gold silk shawl, presented by
Miss Durell ; a jewelled onyx brooch, presented by Miss L.
K. Schartau. Other attractive gifts presented to the bazaar
included an original painting by Mr. Fred Stratton; several
pictures of ﬂowers and animals painted and presented by
the Countess Alberti d’Enno; specimens of Norwegian
enamel work and weaving, presented by Fru Geirsvold; an
old Spanish lace altar cloth, presented by Mrs. Arncliffe
Sennett ; an antique hand washstand, presented by Lady

68

 




 

  

Wilson; a collection of Chelsea Posies, made and presented
by Miss St. John Partridge; a basket of sweet peas,
presented by Countess Beauchamp.

Most welcome gifts to the bazaar were also made by Sir Harry
Lauder, Lady Mary Savile, Lady Congreve, Lady Cliiford Cory,
Lady Childs, Lady Trevelyan, Mrs. John Walter, Mrs. Thesiger,
Mrs. Staunton, Miss Faulkner, Mrs. Burn-Murdoch, Mrs. Beddow
Bayly, Lady Low, Miss Ursula Greville, Lady Blomﬁeld, Lady Coote,
Miss Lillian Dixon, Mrs. Baugh (“ Nanny ”), Lord Nigel Douglas-
Hamilton, Lady Savile, "Sir Ralph Paget, Lady Isobel Ryder, Miss
Iris Ryder, Mrs. Hedley Thomson, Miss Ethel Morris, Miss E.
Stevenson, Miss Glasgow, Mrs. Gardiner, Miss Claire Monk, Miss
L. H. Cowdray, Mrs. Topham, Mrs. Vaudrey, Miss Heap, the Misses
George, Mrs. de Fonblanque, Miss Colton, Miss E. Masham, Mrs. T.
Grove, Miss G, N. Guggenheim, Miss Ina Thornblad, Miss Frances
Dykes, Miss Hilda Maude, Mrs. Lewis Paine, Miss Letitia L. Coles,
Mr. and Mrs. Sidney Oldall Addy, Mrs. Edgecombe, Mrs. W. F.
Lawrence, Miss Virginia and Miss Mary Carter, Miss M. Cox,
Mrs. Heathcote, Miss Hawkins, Mr. and Mrs. Cecil H. Robinson,
Miss Hannah Stallard, Miss 1e Pla, Miss EVa Pickering, Miss K.
Whitney, Mr. Martin, Mrs. Swanberg, Mrs. de Maré, Mrs. Kihlstedt,
Mrs. Kreuger, Mrs. Holmgren, Mrs. Vessey, Miss Frances Gibson,
Miss Eatherley. Among the ﬁrms which kindly sent gifts were Messrs.
Fortnum and Mason, Messrs. Jacksons, Messrs. Shearn, the Misses
Wilson, Messrs. Harvey Nichols, Messrs. Robert Douglas, Messrs.
A. E. Skinner, Messrs. Gilham and Jones.

The Stallholders and their Helpers made most generous
contributions in kind, some of the stalls being entirely
supplied through such gifts.

Miss St. John Montague generously provided the
“ Lucky Dip Well ” with its attractive contents. The room
of entertainments, games with prizes and children’s amuse-
ments was in the charge of Lady Margaret Drummond-Hay,
Mr. and Mrs. John Alexander, Mrs. Hewett, Mrs. Gardiner
and Miss Davies-Gilbert.

Health and character readings were given by Madame
Bartolette (Herbalist), Madame Myra, Madame Charles,
Madame Louise, Mlle. Daniel.

Miss Henderson, Miss Tyson and Miss Matthews were in
charge of the sale of tickets.

Among those who rendered great services were the
Duchess of Marlborough, Mrs. Fleming Baxter, Mr. and
Mrs. Steuart, Mr. Gordon Hunt, Mr. Michael Shaw
Stewart, Miss Li. Carew, Mrs. Savage, Mrs. Swanberg,

Miss Helen Turner, Mr. R. Armstrong and Mr. R. B.
Mordan.

Before the bazaar there were many meetings of the
Committee held at 15, St. J ames’s Place. and also, through

69

 

  




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

the kindness and courtesy of Mrs. Calvert Carter, at 41,
Portman Square, in regard to which the Scotsman
published a notice on November 20th.

The Marquis of Clydesdale, M.P., had consented to open
the bazaar on the ﬁrst day, but owing to an attack of
inﬂuenza was unable to do so, and sent the following
telegram :—-—-

Much regret unable be present to-day, best wishes for success
of bazaar.——Clydesdale.

His brother, Lord Malcolm Douglas-Hamilton took his'
place, and said :—

“ Sow a thought and reap an act, sow an act and reap
a habit, sow a habit and reap a character, sow a character
and reap a destiny. The Animal Defence Society was
founded through kind and loving thought. The people
who have organised this bazaar have thereby shown them-
selves capable of action as well as thought, and I hope that
the thoughts engendered by this Society—thoughts of
kindness, justice and compassion—Will develop, by means
of action, into habits, and ultimately by affecting the
national character, inﬂuence our destiny as a people.

Amongst all you people there must be many thoughts
running through your minds of the many nice things for
sale on the stalls. I hope you will let those thoughts
deveIOp into acts of buying, and that the act will become
a habit for to-day and to-morrow.”

The following notice of the ﬁrst day’s proceedings
appeared in The Times :——-

In the absence of the Marquis of Clydesdale, M.P., Lord Malcolm
Douglas-Hamilton Opened the Animal Defenders’ At Home and
Christmas bazaar yesterday afternoon, at 2 p.m., at the new house
of the Society, 15, St. James ’8 Place. The bazaar was under the
patronage of the American, Italian, Japanese and Spanish
Ambassadors. Among those present were The Duke and Duchess of
Hamilton, the Duchess of Marlborough, the Duchess of Grafton,
Susan Duchess of Somerset, Countess Beauchamp, Lady Margaret
DrummondI—Iay, Lady Weigall and Lady Howard of Penrith.

The bazaar will be continued this afternoon from 2 to 8 o’clock.
The gloves worn by King Charles II at the Battle of Worcester
(given by Mr. Bowring-Hanbury) and the shoe-buckles of Bonnie
Prince Charlie worn at the Battle of Culloden (given by Mr.
Charrington) will be raﬁied during the afternoon for the proﬁt of
the Society.

The bazaar was distinguished by original, colourful and
most appropriate decorations of ,the stalls and of the
various rooms designed and carried out by Miss Ina
Thornblad, of Stockholm.

Leading up the staircase was an amusing colour design
of a number of different animals on their way to the Animal

70

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
   




Defence. House. -_All the stalls bore different painted scrolls,
indicative of the nature of the objects offered for sale, and
carried out in a variety of colour schemes. In the tea-
. room Miss Thornblad had arranged a charming farmhouse
and “ rural ” surroundings, enhanced by a variety of
ﬂower and coloured light decorations.

The tea-room was most efﬁciently managed by Mrs.
Swanber‘g, who was assisted by Miss Thornblad, Mrs. dc
Maré, Miss de Maré, Mrs. 1e Marchant, Mrs. Kihlstedt and
Mrs. Clogg. All these ladies were dressed in national
costumes. ‘ '

A large number of generous donations were sent to the bazaar
Fund. Amongst those who helped in this way were: Sir Robert-
McAlpine, Miss J effcock, Mrs. Graham Glasgow, Lady Deterding,
Messrs. Harvey Nichols, Rt. Hon. Sir Ralph Paget, K.C.M.G., H.E.
The American Ambassador, The Dowager Countess of Plymouth,
Lord Dysart, Mrs. Arthur Luck, Miss Dorothy MacRae, Mrs.
Congreve, Nina Countess of Northbrook, Mrs. Maude, the Countess of
Castlestewart, Lt.-Gen. the Earl of Dundonald, Noury Khan
Isfandiary (Persian Legation), H.E. Countess Ahlefeldt Laurvig,
Lady Wyndham Child, Mrs. Snow, Mrs. Washington Singer,
Mademoiselle G. de Barrios, Mrs. James Ismay, etc.

The bazaar was very well attended and on both days
there was a ceaseless stream of visitors. Attractive posters
had been designed and printed, and through the courtesy
and friendliness of leading ﬁrms in London, members of
the Committee were able to give the bazaar wide publicity
through placing these posters in shops. Numerous posters
were also displayed in clubs and institutions of various
kinds. Two hundred posters Were placed in the Under-
grOund stations of London. through the courtesy of Lord
Ashﬁeld. The sum realised through donations, gifts and

sales5vVas £1,000 10s. 7d.

-'A Number of Meetings.—-—4The Annual Business Meeting
of :the Society was .held at 15, St. James’s Place on
November .27th, 1933. The chair was taken by the Duchess
of Hamilton. The report and ﬁnancial statement for the
year 1932 was placed before members and associates {of
the Society. Miss Lind-af-Hageby read extracts from the
comprehensive report presented (132 pages) and commented
on the most important events of the year under review.
The audited ﬁnancial statement was read by the Hon.
Treasurer, Miss B. C. Delius. The Countess Alberti
d’Enno, an Honorary Member and a welcome visitor from
Geneva, moved the adoption of the annual report and
ﬁnancial statement. Mr. F. Stratton seconded the adaption,
which was carried unanimously. Mr. Douglas Spens
Steuart moved the election of the President, Vice-

71

 




 

 

 
 
 
   

 

    

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

Presidents and members of the Executive Council, Dr.
Beddow Bayly seconded the election, which was carried
unanimously.

There was a large attendance of members and associates.

Miss Nora Logan read a telegram from the Norwegian
Women ’s Club, which was worded as follows: “ With best
wishes and hopes for your success, we congratulate you on
the new Animal Defence House, Hilde Richardt, Ebba
Anderson.” The Amerlcan Anti-Viv1section Scolety, of
Philadelphia, cabled “ Heartiest wishes for continued
success in new quarters.” Professor Daniel Walter, of.
Graz, Austria, wrote: “ Best wishes for successful work.’ ’
Mrs. Clinton Pinckney Farrell, President of the V1v1secti0n
Investigation League of New York, wrote to Miss
Lind-af-Hageby 2—-

“ I was delighted to see the picture of your new home, and I
hope that all happiness and success will come to you there. For so
many years I have keenly admired the great work you have done,
which has inspired me to do my utmost here in America. I have
always admired your intellect and your heart. . . . I have no words
adequately to express all I feel but I would like the members of
your Society to know the intense admiration and affection in which
you are held in America. I have read every word of the last
number of Progress To-day and have quoted freely from it yesterday
in my report at the Fall Meeting of the International Conference
for the Investigation of Vivisection. ” (The International Conference
for the Investigation of Vivisection comprises 144 Humane Societies
of the United States.)

In reviewing the report presented, Miss Lind-af-Hageby
spoke of. the features of the Society’s work, such as humane
education, slaughter reform, the transport of cattle and
other animals by land and by sea, the increase in cases of
ﬂagrant cruelty to animals, animals in ﬁlm production,

the killing “of seals, the protection of pit horses and ponies,

vivisection in its various aspects, experiments on human
beings, poison gas experiments, the dental Counter-
Competition, the study of mind in animals, international
‘co-operation, etc. '

She laid stress on the importance of the Deputation, in
April, 1932, to the President of the Conference for the
Reduction and Limitation of Armaments, in which the
Animal Defence Society had been supported by over 1,400
Animal Protection Societies. She was glad to pay ‘a tribute
to one of the Delegates of that Deputation, Fru Dr.
VGeirsvold, who had represented Norway, and who had
travelled to Geneva, with the blessings of the Norwegian
Government. Fru 'Geirsvold had recently been decorated
by the King of Norway with a gold medal, in recognition

72

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 

 




of her great work for the protection of animals, and had
now travelled specially from Norway to London to help
with the bazaar and to be present at the Annual Meeting.
They were all delighted to welcome such a magniﬁcent
advocate of the cause of mercy and justice to animals, and
they hoped that Fru Geirsvold would say a few words.
Miss Lind-af-Hageby mentioned that the Spanish Govern-
ment had asked Madame de Palencia to represent Spain
on the Deputation and that Professor Dahlstrom, of the
Royal Veterinary College of Stockholm, had come to
Geneva with his travelling expenses defrayed by the
Swedish Government. She mentioned these things to
suggest that enormous changes had taken place in the
public and ofﬁcial attitude towards the animal protection
movement. "‘ We have now,” she said, “ Government
and ﬁnancial Government support for that which, not

many decades ago, was greeted with the laughter of
derision.”

“ The report of the speeches of the Deputation,” she
said, “ emphasises the connection between the movement
for the reduction of armaments, for peace and a greater
international understanding and those fundamental prin-
ciples of compassion and justice, which underlie the
animal protection movement.”

Criticism of the League of Nations.~———The speaker
referred to the present attacks on the League of Nations,
to its obvious failures and short-comings, and asked her
audience: “‘ Supposing the League of Nations comes to
an end, what has the world got in its place? What are
we going back to “.3 ,

“ Armament competition, invention of more and more
murderous weapons to kill one another-weapons based
on murderous feelings. The next little war, if it comes,
will not be like the last war. It will, under present
circumstances and inventions—for science has lowered
itself to most devilish uses—~be the end of civilisation, and
of all our humanitarian. work. If you feel, as some feel.
that the League of Nations is ‘ bﬂnkum ’ and ‘ rubbish ’
and ‘ hypocrisy,’ just contemplate What is going to happen
with modern methods of warfare when we come to another
war. Even the very fact that people meet, and sit round
a table and talk is better than cutting each others’ throats
and tearing out each others’ eyes! As was recorded in
a letter written by me which appeared in The Times, the
League of Nations, in October following on our deputation
in April. deﬁnitely committed itself to take up the protec

7.3

 




 
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
    

 

 

  
     
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

Weir‘-

 

 

 

[\z - ﬁ-J‘jﬁiﬁ". - _ 4

- , -. .
A» ..,

\.'.'“ .
r “if-5""

 

   

 

 

 

 

  

tion of animals. As a ﬁrst step, it will be taken up at the
Veterinary Conference which will be called under the
auspices of the League where the question of cruelty in
the transpOrt of animals is going to be dealt with.

The International Bureau for the Protection of Animals
in Geneva, founded by your Society, will prepare, with
the approval and consent of the League of Nations, a
Memorandum on Conditions of Transport. This will be
for the use of the Veterinary Conference and also for
Governments and Societies interested. ”

Referring to the Society’s work and the attitude of
indifference, Miss Lind-af-Hageby said :———~

“ There is not one question relating to the protection of
animals which is not also a human question. You may not
care how animals are killed in the slaughterhouse, but you
get your poisoned meat; you have cancer prevalent and
increasing. You do not care how your cows are kept and
stabled, but you want your milk, your cheese, your butter.
What does it matter, you may feel, that the cow is chained
to a wall, treated as a machine, it is ‘ hygienic.’ You will,
nevertheless, be punished when you use diseased milk. You
do not care how animals, intended for slaughter, are
transported. It is the same thing. It comes back to you
in the meat you eat. You do not care how animals are
trapped for your fur coats, your personal adornment. It
is positively poisonous for you to sit in a fur coat or with
a fur stole from a tormented animal that lived in agony
for a week or ten days before it froze or starved to death.
Here I touch on psychic law. Do you think we can do these
things without paying? That is why we ask you to inquire
into the things you do, the clothes you wear, the things
you use for your pleasure. Are they consistent with that
nobler humanity, that greater humanity—e—that real humanity
w—towards which we hope and believe with all our spiritual
conviction that this little planet is evolving? ”

Contempt for Animals the Root of Cruelty.—The
speaker stated that contempt for animals was the root of
much cruelty and indifference. “ Your Society,” she said,
“ has worked very hard to break down the contempt for
animals. Why are people cruel? Why do you meet drovers
beating the cattle they are driving “.3 Why are such
terrible things done in the transport of cattle and in
slaughterhouses ? ‘ The beast has got to die, and as he has
got to die anyhow it does not matter how I treat him ’—
is the reply we sometimes get. The bullock is not a
‘ person.’ He is nobody. We need not go into religious

74x

  




    

  

questions, but this contempt of animals must be removed.
We want to build up respect for life. If you are religious,
we say to you that just as God expresses Himself in you,
so He expresses Himself in the wonderful animal creation
in the world. If you are not religious but scientiﬁc, we
say that these creatures have the same nerves, ﬂesh, blood,
skin and, to a great extent, the same feelings as you. And
so we set out to prove that animals have minds diﬁering
from yours, but none the less minds, and we have pub-
lished lately two pamphlets, one called Mind in Animals
and the other called Souls of Animals—most marvellous
and interesting records relating to animal psychology.

“ And there is one thing to note. PeOple who know
nothing about animals are very dull and spiritually poor.
You get something better than ‘ cocktail’ out of life if
you learn to study and understand animals. They are so
interesting, so full of vitality, so full of purpose. You
are brought right to the mystery of life. How many of
you here, feeling tired and weary and worn and sick of
things have found new life by going to the animals?
Remember what our President often quotes—that when
Jesus was weary He went out into the wilderness and He
was with the wild beasts. So have the saints and the
nature mystics. They have gone back to Nature, to learn
the lessons of Nature.”

Anti-Vivis-ection has become as much the Defence of
Humanity as the Defence of Animals. In regard to the
development of the Anti—Vivisection movement, Miss Lind—
af-Hageby said :-—-

 

“ The anti-vivisection movement has become as
much the defence of humanity as the defence of animals.
Experiments on animals lead directly to experiments on
human beings, not on you and me, but on the helpless
and the defenceless, on the poor and on children.
We do not exaggerate when we say that the medical.
journals of the world to-day contain records of the
most abominable, the most unjustiﬁable experiments on
children and adults. Progress To-day has published reports
of such experiments. We could make a whole book of
authentic cases of such experiments. You are told, my
friends, that if you attempt to stop experiments on animals
you will have experiments on human beings. The truth is
that if you promote this spirit of non-moral experimenta-
tion on animals you encourage it to continue on human
beings, because, after all, what is there to restrain a medical
man? Nothing but a sense of honour. I have myself seen

?5

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

  

 

 

 

 

 

   

many operations on human beings, and anyone with
surgical knowledge will bear me out when I say that there
is a very ﬁne line of demarcation between ‘ treatment ’ and
‘ experirment.’ Sometimes a surgeon is perfectly justiﬁed
in trying something new. The same in veterinary surgery.
It just depends on his character, his sense of honour and
what he honestly tries to do. If you undermine his sense
of honour, if you foster callousness and brutality and a love
of operations for the mere sake of. making records, for the
sake of contributing long, learned and interesting articles
to medical and scientiﬁc journals, you will get many an—
necessary operations. And now to-day we have several
books by members of the medical profession protesting
against unnecessary operations. .

Vivisection has not helped to build up the honour or
sanity or the real art of Medicine.”

Why the League of Nations Supports Experiments on
Animals.—Miss Lind-af—Hageby referred to the objections
made against any co-operation with the League of Nations,
because the League of Nations supports experiments on
animals. “ This is no reason,” she said, “ why human-
itarians should withhold their inﬂuence from the League.’ ’
She went on to say that if they thought the matter out
logically they would ﬁnd the present attitude of the League
a good reason for association, not the reverse. Why did
the League of Nations support experiments on animals “.3
Because the Governments of the world supported experi.
ments on animals. On this point the Governments of the
world were, unfortunately, unanimous. The scientiﬁc and
medical men who were sent to the League, who worked in
the Health Section of the League, used the same methods,
had the same intellectual principles and arguments as those
which now receive ofﬁcial sanction and approval every-
where. The League of Nations had not made a new
departure: it was carrying on a tradition. Those who
wanted the League of Nations to take a greater interest in
those methods——methods of health-culture, sanitation,
dietetics, physiotherapy and nature-cure—which constitu-
ted the real advance in the art of preventing and healing
disease, should educate public opinion and through public
opinion the Governments represented at Geneva.”

Fru Christine Geirsvold Addresses the Meeting. The
Duchess of Hamilton paid a tribute to the late Mrs.
Waddingham, a Vice-President of the Society. Mrs.
VVaddingham had for very many years devoted herself to
charitable work and had been a keen worker for the cause

76

 

 
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 

  




of the animals. She also referred to the tragic death of
the Society’s devoted representative in India, Rao Bahadur
Jambulingam Mudali-ar, who for many years had worked
for humanitarian reform in India and who almost
every week sent a report of his activities to headquarters.
Mr. J ambulingam, who had-shown the greatest interest in
the Houston Mount Everest Flight, had written that he
would meet her son, Lord Clydesdale, at Karachi, but had
failed to appear. Inquiries made elicited that Mr. J am—
bulingam had suddenly disappeared, and later investiga-
tion established the fact that he had been murdered.

The Duchess of Hamilton asked Fru Geirsvold to address
the meeting. Fru Geirsvold said :—

“ I join in the congratulations and good wishes for the
work of this Society. We have had the pleasure and
honour of having both these ladies in Norway. They gave
lectures there and we were all delighted. Our Society——
the Federation of Norway—has forty-two Societies afﬁliated
and about four hundred communal Animal Protection
Centres. We have also a Children’s Animal Protection
Society, which consists of 60,000 children- We do not
think it enough, because we want ALL the children—the
coming generation—linked up in a chain round Norway to
protect animals. We have teachers who go round the
country and give lectures and show slides of animals to
the children. We think this very important. We are
happy because the Norwegian Government appreciates our
work, and before the crisis we got 10,000 kroner a year
from the Government. Now it has been reduced, but we
hope to get more, because a statesman recently said to me :
‘ It is such good work that we will try to put some more
money into it.’

“ We have heard a "report of this Society’s splendid
work. It has warmed our hearts and strengthened our
minds. But it must not be only to-day we listen and feel
moved. Everyone of us must try to make an animal pro—
tector of our neighbour. We must realise how helpless
animals are and what we receive from them in clothes and
food. I will go back to my country and tell them of the
splendid effort you have made in getting the Animal
Defence Headquarters here. I am sure it will be good, not
only for your country, and for my country, but for the
whole world. My warmest thanks, good wishes and God ’s
blessings on your Society.”

The Duchess of Hamilton called on Mrs. Hedley
Thgmson to address the meeting. Mrs. Hedley Thomson
sai :—

'77

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

“ I did not expect to speak, and will only do so for a
few minutes. I know .of no society whose work gives me
the joy which that of the Animal Defence Society does
and for two outstanding reasons. One is that it works
against every form of cruelty and the other is that it takes
the highest ideal as its aim. In considering the work of
this Society you may think, ‘ How can I best help human
beings? ’ The answer is by working for animals. A human
being that is not kind to an innocent animal which has
never done him any harm will not ﬁnd it easy to be kind to
his ‘ brother ,’ who very often irritates him a good deal.
Before I sit down I want to ask all to do their part.
Do not leave it to others. Let us do our own part. The best
way to learn to do our part is by studying the literature.
You know the wonderful review Progress To-day, you
cannot do better than reading and studying that review——
it should be read from cover to cover. There is enormous
work to be done. There is work for us all—all the time.
We need more helpers, thoughtful and practical people.
If every single person here would take the trouble to
study and become a practical worker, the movement would
increase with such a rush that this excellent report would
be twice its size in a year’s time.”

At the conclusion of the meeting questions were asked
about the caged animals in the Haymarket, London, and
about Bertram Mills’ Circus. A question was also asked
in regard to a notice which had appeared in a news—
paper in which it had been stated that an Indian prince
had roasted his pony alive. Comment was also made by
a member on a case of six cows which had calved in a
railway truck between Ireland and Paddington. This case
was a horrible instance of the cruelties now connected with
the transport of animals. Another member spoke of
rabbits with maimed and mangled front paws exhibited
in a butcher’s window. Such rabbits had suffered the
agonies of cruel trapping, and the speaker related that
the protest to the butcher had been effective, for he had
ceased to expose such rabbits for sale.

Reception and Humane Exhibition at Dorchester House
Hotel.—On July 25th the Duchess of Hamilton and Miss
Lind-af~Hageby were At Home at the Dorchester House
Hotel. A comprehensive Humane Exhibition had been
arranged for the occasion by Miss L. K. Schartau, and
the many guests present expressed great appreciation of
and interest in the exhibits.

78

 




    

    

There was a keen demand for the Society ’s publications
which were available.

Tea was served in one of the large rooms adjoining the
ball room and the ball room itself had been attractively
prepared for a concert. Miss Christine Delius, Hon.
Treasurer of the Animal Defence Society, played a number
of violin solos including Serenade by her cousin, Frederick
Delius. She was accompanied by Miss Lonie Basche.
Lord David Douglas-Hamilton, fourth son of the Duke
and Duchess of Hamilton, played selections of bag-pipe
music, Mr. Kenneth Macrae sang a number of songs,
amongst them ‘ ‘ Bhirlinn Bharrachd ’ ’ from the Songs of
the Hebrides by Kennedy Fraser. Miss Thelma Reiss-
Smith gave a selection of Violoncello solos, amongst them
“ La Fileuse ” by Dunkler and “ El Paro Moruno ” by
de Falla. Mr. Dunstan Hart contributed several songs,
amongst them “ Birds in the High Hall Garden ” by
Somervell. Mr. Gerald Moore accompanied Miss Thelma
Reiss-Smith.

The music, beautifully interpreted by the artists, was
greatly appreciated by those present.

Amongst those Who accepted invitations to the At Home
were the following :-—-

H.H. the Aga Khan, H.E. the German Ambassador, H.E. the
Japanese Ambassador and Madame T'suneo Matsudaira, H.E. the
Belgian Ambassador and the Baroness de Cartier de Marchienne,
H.E. the Swiss Minister, Madame Paravicini and Mademoiselle
Paravicini, the Rajah Syed Mhd, Saa Dat Ali Khan, the Begum
Shah Nawaz, the Hon. Diwan Bahadur Chetty, the Marquis and
Marchioness of Ailesbury, Priscilla, Countess Annesley, Lord and
Lady Arundell of Wardour, Colonel and Donna Lyta Alexander,
Mr. and Mrs. Elford Adams, Mr. and. Mrs. Robert Adeane,
Dr. Edwin Ash, Mrs. Arncliife Sennett, Mrs. Henry Arnold,
Mrs. Annesley, Miss J. Aikman, Mr. Henry Amos, the
Countess Beauchamp, the Viscount and Viscountess Bertie of
Thame, Lord and Lady St. John of Bletso, Sir Montague Barlow,
Lord Blanesburgh, Lady Blomﬁeld, the Hon. Margaret Best, Mr.
and Mrs, John Buchan, Mr. and Mrs. Boissier, Miss Boissier, the
Rev. Basil Bourchier, Colonel the Hon. and Mrs. Malcolm Bowes-
Lyon, the Rev. Rossie Brown, Mrs. Fleming Baxter, Dr. and Mrs.
Beddow Bayly, Mr. George Binney, Mr. H. A. K. Boyd, Mr.
Cloudesley Brereton, Mrs. Cloudesley Brereton, Madame Bologne-
Heiser, Mrs. A. E. Balfour, Miss Bradshaw, Lady Barker, Mrs.
John Boyd-Carpenter, Miss Barker, Miss Batlivala, Mrs. Bayley~
Worthington, Miss Betteley, Miss Blake, Miss Blundell, Mrs. Boitel-
Gill, Miss Bowman, Mrs, Brasier-Creagh, Miss Brindley, Miss Brooks,
Mrs. Butler, Miss Baden-Powell, Squadron~Leader the Marquis of
Clydesdale, M.P., Lady Chalmers, Celia, Lady Congreve, Captain
Victor Cazalet, M.P., Mr. Canavan, Mr. and Mrs. Carter, the Misses
Carter, Mr. Hugh Charrington, Mr. Harold Child, Mrs. Congreve, Lady
Coote, Mrs. Alvin Corry, Miss Corry, Mrs. Champion de Crespigny, Mr.

79




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Stephen Champ, Miss Churches, Mrs. Clark, Mrs. Clinch, Lady
Margaret Drummond—Hay, the Marquis and Marchioness of Donegall,
Lady Bertha Dawkins, Miss Dawkins, Mr. and Lady Agnes Durham,
Colonel and Mrs. Donegan, Vice-Admiral and Mrs. Drury-Lowe, Dr.
Adrian Dingli, Mr. and Mrs. James Douglas, Dr. Drakoules, Miss
Dickerman, Miss Durie, Mr. and Mrs. Arthur Doubleday, Mrs
Charles Dummett, Viscount and Viscountess Elibank, Mr. Maxi-
milian Epstein, Dr, Estcourt-Oswald, Mr. and Mrs. Emary, Air-
Commodore and Mrs. Fellowes, the Rev. Dr. and Mrs. Fleming,
Air-Commodore and Mrs. MacNeece Foster, Captain and Miss
Faulkner, Captain Brian Fairfax-Lucy, Major and Mrs. Fyers, Miss
Hilde Forrest, Miss Finch, Miss Falbe, the Duchess of Grafton, the
Swedish Consul and Mrs. Gad, Lady Gillford, Sir Robert and Lady
Gower, Colonel and Mrs. Greg, Mrs. and Miss Davies-Gilbert, Mr.
and Mrs. Arthur Glasgow, Miss Glasgow, the Rev. E. Goodchild,
Mrs. Robinson Guppy, Miss Ursula Greville, Mr. David Gow, Miss
Madge Graham, Mrs. Girdwood, Mrs. Goodacre, Miss D. Gooderham,
Lady DuiT-Gordon, Miss Graeme, Mrs, Grant, Mr. Grestock, Mrs.
Guillan-Brown, Mr. Gunyon, Mr. Gurney, Mrs. Gethrin, Lord and
Lady Headley, Judge and Mrs. Harrington, Mr. and Mrs. Harding,
the Misses Harding, Mrs. Hargreaves, Mrs. Holmgren, Mrs. Holmes,
Mrs. and Miss Hughes, Mrs. Seymour Hughes, Mrs. Harrison, Mrs.
A. E. Hadley, Mrs. Haley, Miss Hall, Mr. Hamilton, Miss Harradine,
Mrs. Harris, Miss Hart, Mr. and Mrs. Samuel Hopgood Hart, Miss
Hawker, Miss Hawkins, Miss V. Hawkins, Major and Mrs. Heather,
Mrs, Hewett, Dr. Stenson Hooker, Miss Horsman, Miss Hughes,
Mr. and Mrs. Hutchins, Miss Hutchins, Miss Hinnicks, Mrs. and
Miss Ismay, Miss Jeffcock, Mrs. W. Jones, Mrs. Jahn, Mr. and
Mrs. Kadono, Mr. Hamilton Kerr, Mr, and Mrs. Konig, Mr. and
Mrs. Kreuger, Mrs. Gerald Kingsbury, Miss Kirkpatrick, Miss
Knight, Mrs. Krohn, Miss Kennedy, Lord Leigh, Lady Lawrence,
Lady Lumb, Sir John and Lady Lees, Lady Low, the Rt. Hon.
George Lambert, Mrs. and Miss Lambert, Miss Lardelli, Mr. and
Mrs. Lawrence, Mrs, 1e Marchant, Mrs. Long, Mrs. Selby Lowndes,
Mr. Allen Lane, Mr. and Mrs. de Laszlo, Miss Nora Logan, Miss
Lloyd, Mrs, Lindley, Miss Lambert, Mrs. Donald Malcolm, Mrs.
Marras, Major and Mrs, Marten, Miss Marten, Mrs. Raymond Maude,
Lt.-Colonel 'T. C. R. Moore, M.P., and Mrs. Moore, Mrs. Muirhead-
Campbell, Mrs. de Maré, Elisabeth, Lady Moseley, Mrs. Martin, Miss
Maule, Mrs. Miles, Dr. Edwin Miller, Dr. George Miller, Miss M. _A
Mills, Mrs, Molteno, Mrs. M. E. Mordan, Mr. Bennet Mordan, Miss
St. John Montague, Mrs. Le Maistre, Miss J. C. C. Macdonald,
Mrs. Matthew, Lady Jean Mackintosh, Mrs. Angus Macnaghten,
Miss McClemont, Miss Mackintosh, Miss L. Macnaghten, Mrs.
Macklin, Dr. and Mrs. Norwood, Mrs. Noble, Mr. Godfrey NorrIIS,
Mr. and Mrs. Newton, Mrs. John Neal, Mrs. Nettlefold, Miss
O’Leary, Miss Olsen, Miss O’Neill, Miss O’Sullivan, Major and Mrs.
Paget, Capt, and Mrs. Alwyne Pelly, Le Comte Przezdziecki, Miss
C. L. Paterson, Miss Percival, Mrs. Perry, Mrs. Pierce, Miss E-
Piggott, Mrs. David Pilcher, Miss Powell, Miss Phillimore, Lady
Plender, Miss Poore, Violet Duchess of Rutland, Mr. and Mrs-
Rinder, Dr. and Mrs. Lane Roberts, Miss Iris Ryder, Lt-'C,Ol~
Wakeﬁeld Rainey, Mrs. Rose, Lady Rawlinson, Mrs. Rake, Miss
Reade, Mr. Reddall, Mrs. Edward Reeves, Mrs. Richardson, Mrs.
Rigby, Mr. Ashe Roberts, Mrs. Rooke, Miss Florence Russell, Mlss
Ryves, Mrs, Rose, Miss Reeve, Viscountess Snow-den of Ickornshaw,
Lady Edward Spencer-Churchill, Lady Mary Savile, Lady Struthers,
Sir Kynaston and Lady Studd, the Master of Sempill, Mr. and Mrs.
Charles Sale, Miss Sale-Barker.

80




    

    

The Duchess of Hamilton addressed a number of
meetings on behalf of the cause of Animal Protection. On
March 13th by invitation of the League of Nations Union
she addressed a luncheon on the League of Nations and
animal protection work. On March 19th, by the invitation
of the Rev. John Muirhead, who is a keen worker for
peace, she gave an address in the Established Church at
Strathaven on Peace. She spoke to the effect that unless
man gives compassion and peace to the animals, he is not
likely to receive it himself. On April 4th in opening the
World Wide Missionary Exhibition, organised by the
Sunday School Educational Society, at Glasgow, she spoke
of man’s relation to and his protection of animals, being
an intrinsic part of Christianity as illustrated by the
example of its Founder. The organisers of the exhibition
had the Society’s publications on view and sale. On April
9th, on the invitation of the Rev. Harkness Graham, she
preached on the importance of the protection of animals.
She took as her text, “ Blessed are the Merciful” and
spoke on the example of Christ in drawing near to the
animals before the most important events of his life. The
church was quite full, and the congregation listened atten—
tively. Among those present was Sir Harry Lauder. On
May 30th, on the invitation of Miss Welch, General Secre-
tary of the Poetry Society, she gave an address at the
Annual Luncheon on "‘ Humanitarianism and the Poets.”
in which she emphasised how much humanitarian sentiment
has been voiced by poets throughout the ages. She began
by quoting from Anna Kingsford, poet and seeress, on
what a poet should be, and thereafter made apposite
quotations from Isaiah, Shakespeare, Wordsworth, Swin~
burne, Blake, Coleridge, Edward Arnold, Robert Buchanan,
Percy Bysshe Shelley, Tennyson, Mrs. Browning, down to
the present time and she ﬁnally ended by quoting in full
a poem by Mary Winten Were. On. June 20th, the Hon.
Juliet Gardner organised a meeting at the London Musical
Club in Holland Park, the Chair was taken by Lady Maud
Warrender, and the Duchess gave an address on the
importance of animal protection. A report appeared
in the Daily Sketch of June 22nd. She gave similar
addresses on July 28th, on the invitation of Mrs. Rannie
of Winchester, to the Southern Scottish Circle; on October
31st at the Hallow-e’en Tea of the Scottish Circle of the
Lyceum Club, and on November 2nd to the Call Club.
On April 5th she spoke at the Newton Mearns branch
of the League of Nations Union, when she drew attention
to the importance of the protection of animals to those

81

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

who work for peace. During the week-end meeting of
the Scottish Representatives of the League of Nations
Union, at Dunblane from October 14th to 16th, she gave
an address on Sunday morning on the humanitarian
activities of the League. The Earl of Home took the chair.
She described to a much interested audience, the great
impression made throughout the world by the deputation
organised by the Animal Defence Society’s International
Bureau, to Mr. Henderson as President of the Conference
for the Reduction and Limitation of Armaments to urge
the importance to the peace movement of animal protection
and humane education. She informed her audience of the
efforts made to establish the status of the pit pony as a
labourer in the mines, and of the fact that the League has
at last admitted that animal protection should be con-
sidered as of great importance. She also referred to the
correspondence which has since taken place between
ofﬁcials of the League and the Animal Defence Society.

On July 4th, she spoke at a British Empire Union
luncheon, given in honour of the Mount Everest Houston
Flight, on the invitation of Lord Danesfort. The follow-
ing report appeared in the Daily Mirror of July 5th:

SCOTLAND LEADS THE WAY.

The speeches of congratulation at the luncheon were simple and
sincere, but none was more sincere than that made by the Duchess
of Hamilton. It was the last speech and probably the best.

“ I cannot help feeling glad, apart from the fact that one of
the pilots was my son (the Marquis of Clydesdale), that both pilots
were Scotsmen,” she said amidst applause.

Then came a little dig at England. “ I cannot forget,” she
added, “ that Scotland has led the way in another ﬁeld. Scotland
has just passed that simplest measure of mercy, the Humane
Slaughter Bill, and England dare not follow.”

And this was the moral she drew:—“ The British Empire has
been built up not only by the spirit of adventure which made the
Everest Flight possible, but by the fact that we have stood for
justice and mercy.”

.On October 21st she spoke at a musical evening held
in aid of the Youth Campaign of the League of Nations
Union (Glasgow Branch) at Sir Daniel Stevenson’s house
in Glasgow. She emphasised the importance of Humane
Education as a civilising inﬂuence and powerful factor in
the cause of world peace. “ If we want peace,” she said,
“ we must be active.” Peace was not passive but an
eternally active state. We must be constructive—think
in terms of life not death. “ Is it not a scandalous fact,”
she said, ‘ ‘ that scientists are prostituting their brains

8"
-

 




experimenting upon helpless animals to ﬁnd poisons to
kill man.” Humane education meant the acknowledgment
of the need for justice and consideration for all others,
human and animal. An appreciative notice of her address
appeared in the Glasgow Evening News of October 23rd.

The Duchess of Hamilton once again presented three
prizes for competition at the Trials of the International
Sheep Dl‘og Society. To encourage kindness to animals the
prizes Were given to any hired shepherd’s child, under
16 years of age, exhibiting two sheep-dogs of any age in
best condition. The judges were instructed to consider
“ any evidence of the most cordial and affectionate rela~
tions between the child and the dogs exhibited.”

Various Addresses.——On February 22nd Miss Henderson
spoke on behalf of the Society at a meeting of the South
Hackney branch of Toc H. on “Animal Protection Work.”
Much interest was expressed in the subject of the address,
which was followed by questions and discussion. On
March 6th Dr. Fergie Woods spoke on behalf of the Society
at a meeting of the Abbey Wood Men’s Society in
Plumstead. On March 8th Miss Gwen Staunton, M.B., on
behalf of your Society addressed a meeting of the Women’s
Section of the Bow and Bromley Conservative Association.
Miss Staunton chose as the title of her address “ We and
the Animals,” and dealt with the question of humane
slaughter, the fur trade, caged birds, performing animals,
transport and vivisection. There was a good attendance
of members and much practical interest was taken in the
subjects dealt with. On March 31st the Rev F. C. Baker,
Vicar of St. Stephen’s, Coleman Street, E.C., spoke on
behalf of the Society at the Annual Meeting of the Clacton
and District Anti-Vivisection Society, which is afﬁliated to
your Society. On April 26th Miss Claire Monk spoke on
behalf of the Society at a meeting of the Women’s Section
of the Bow and Bromley Conservative Association on the
subject of “ Animals in Legend and Folk-lore.” On
July 12th she spoke on behalf of the Society, to the
Women’s Section of the Finsbury Labour Party, at Peel
Institute, St. John’s Street, on the subject of “ Animal
Welfare: An Aspect of Civilisation.” Miss Gwen Staunton,
M.B., spoke on behalf of the Society at a meeting in North
Harrow, on the question of Slaughter Reform. She dealt
with the position of the Slaughter Reform Bill before the
House of Commons, and urged her hearers to put pressure
on their parliamentary representatives to support the Bill
in its entirety. The Society’s publications dealing with the

83

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

position of the Humane Slaughter Bill and with the
practical aspects of slaughter reform were distributed
among members of the audience. On June 2nd Mr-
Edward G. Smith spoke on behalf of your Society at a.
Meeting of the London Co-operative Society, Hackney.

On March 31st an anti—vivisection meeting was held at
Midhurst. The meeting was organised by Mrs. Arncliffe
Sennett to demand the passing of The Dogs Protection
Bill (Exemption from Vivisection), andthe speakers were
the Duchess of Hamilton and Miss L‘ind-af-Hageby. The
Chair was taken by Mrs. Aarncliffe Sennett. Amongst
those present on the platform were Brig-General C. de
Winton, now President of the Midhurst Anti-Vivisection
Society; Sir Arthur Grant Duff, formerly British Minister
Plenipotentiary at' Stockholm; Lady Grant Duff; and Mr.
Eli Searle.

The meeting was well attended and a Resolution
demanding the passing of the Bill, proposed by Mrs.
Arncliffe Sennett and seconded by Sir Arthur Grant
Duff, was passed. In her opening speech Mrs. Arncliffe
Sennett said that the anti-vivisection movement was a
great moral crusade which expressed the modern conﬂict
between science and religion. A report appeared in
The West Sussex Gazette of April 6th.

On October 4th, the Midhurst Anti—Vivisection Society
held another successful meeting at Midhurst, With
Brig-General C. de Winton in the Chair. The speakers
were Dr. Beddow Bayly, M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P. ; Lt.-Col.
Donegan, C.B., LL.D., L.R.O.P., and Mrs. Arncliife
Sennett. Great interest was shown in the effective
addresses delivered and some excitement was caused by a
member of the audience, who, instead of asking questions,
wished to make a speech in favour of vivisection. A
letter was read from Mr. George Arliss, who wrote:
“ We have seen the attitude of the ‘ scientist ’ gradually
change from one of utter contempt, ﬁrst to defence, then
to concern and latterly to fear.”

Throughout the year your Society received requests for
publications giving facts, ﬁgures and data relating to
vivisection for use in local debates on the subject in
schools and clubs. ‘ The overwhelming majority of
successes for the anti-vivisection zside in these iDebates
and the interest created are encouraging, and testimony,
if such were needed, of the ground that has been won
and of the increasing dissatisfaction with the outworn
claims and theories of vivisectional Medicine. It is a

84

 




healthy sign that the younger generation are not afraid
to condemn a practice which, with the facts before them,
their intelligence cannot accept and their moral conscience
must reject.

Miss Lind-af-Hageby spoke at a number of meetings
including one at the Albert Hall, London, on November
12th. On March 28th she addressed a public meeting
organised in support of Nature Cure for the establishment
of a Nature Cure Hospital in London.

The International Humanitarian Bureau of Geneva and
Humane Exhibition were visited by representatives of
countries all over the world, many of whom occupy
prominent positions in international affairs. Amongst
others, Madame de Palencia, Madrid, Spanish Delegate;
Monsieur A. J. Zilberfarb of the League of Nations;
Monsieur A. Molin of Stockholm, Swedish Delegate;
Monsieur E. Dreyer of Copenhagen, Danish Delegate; the
Comte et Comtesse de San Jorge, Barcelona, Dr. and
Madame Armin Spitaler, Reichenberg, Czechoslovakia;
Mr. John Jacobs of the Rockefeller Institute, New York;
Dr, A. Kamensky, Geneva; Professor Aglaé Joan, Neamtz,
Rumania; Mrs. Dick-Dillner, Geneva; Major G. A. Heather,
Ontario, Canada; Mademoiselle Schlub, Basle; Mademoiselle
M. Carof, Paris; Mademoiselle Duval, San Remo, Italy;
Madame and Mademoiselle J . Béguin and Monsieur Ernest
Béguin, Conseiller d’Etat, Neuchatel; Madame Anna
Lenassi, Gorizia, Italy; Captain Tracy Philips, London;
Madame Therese Lachanal, Geneva; Madame Rahman
Castiglione, Italy; Madame Noémi P. Raymond, Tokyo,
Japan; Dr. Nore Tenow, Stockholm; Pasteur Christen,
Geneva; Monsieur Marc Ponson, Geneva. Prince Louis
Victor de Broglie (Paris), Lieut. and Mrs. Targett-Adams
(Hove), Madame de Keyser-Buysse, President of the
Société Rog/ale Protectmlce des Animan’x pour la Flandre
Orientalc (Belgium), Monsieur E. Ekman (Geneva), Comte
Victor de Ladkowsky (Paris), Dr. William Weyeneth
(Ziirich), Miss Blanche Todd-Naylor (Worthing), Madame
Riitishauser (Rorschach, Switzerland), Dr. W. Dolder,
Chief Veterinary Ofﬁcer (Geneva), Professor L. Quidde
(Munich), Dr. J. Huber (Basle), Monsieur Illi (Geneva),
Mr. and Mrs. John Alexander (Hankow, China), Lady
Henschel (London), Monsieur Guérin, Veterinary Surgeon
(Grenoble), Monsieur H, Becker (Paris), Monsieur A.
Haeni, Ligue contre la Vaccination Obligatoire (Geneva),
Miss Sophie P. Topali (Greece).

85

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Prince Louis Victor de Broglie is one of the most
eminent scientists in physical research. In 1929, he
was awarded the Nobel Prize in physics by the Academy
of Science in Stockholm. During his short stay in Geneva
he found time to pay a visit to the Bureau, having been
advised to do so by the Princesse de Broglie, who takes an
active part in the animal protection movement in France.
Prince de Broglie expressed his admiration of the Exhibi-
tion and was particularly interested in the various publi—
cations issued. .

Early in May a large gathering of students at the
Scandinavian National High School (Skandinaviska Folk—
hiigskolan) in Geneva, met at the International Bureau.
These students came from Sweden, Norway, Denmark and
Finland, and among them were many teachers. They
showed a keen interest in the Humane Exhibition and in
the work for humane education, which plays a prominent
part in the activities of the International Bureau. Mrs.
Mordan gave an address to the visitors in Swedish.

On- May 27th delegates to a Meeting of L’Union Suisse
Romande des Sociétés Protectrices des Animaux—the
delegates being presidents and secretaries~accepted Mrs.
Mordan’s 1nv1tation to visit the Humane Exhibition and
expressed much interest and desire for co-Operation.

Amongst those who gave ﬁnancial support to the International
D)ureau in Geneva were the following:—Countess Alberti d’Enno,
Senor P. Ciga y Mayo, Madame Diosy. Madame J. Drouot, M.
Gyvuliams Globoti Draugijos, Mrs. Lindholm and Dr. Lindholm, Mrs,
Lippincott, Madame Ostermann, Mr. Ernest Renard, Mr. W. Sheard,
Baroness Smeth d’Alphen, Mrs. Vansittart, Madame Boissevain,
Mademoiselle B. Vaucher, M. Henry Schummer, Luxemburg Animal
Protection Society, Miss Todd-Naylor, Mrs. White, Miss M. Todd-
Naylor, Madame d’Hamecourt, The Animal Protection Society,
Schaulen, Mademoiselle E. Beguin, Mrs. Gilliat, Consul Reh, Mrs.
Stauber. '

Award of the Humanitarian Prizes for the Year 1932
by the International Humanitarian Bureau.—-—The literary
prize of £50 was awarded to Comm. Prof. Augusto
de Benedetti of Venice, a distinguished Italian writer.
The following letter was sent on January 10th, 1933 :-—-
Comm. Prof. Augusto de Benedetti, President, Societa Zooﬁla.

Veneziana, Venice.

Dear Professor de Benedetti,

It is with great pleasure that we announce to you that one of the
Humanitarian Prizes (literary) of £50 for the year 1932 has been
awarded you in recognition of the great services which you have
rendered the cause of the Protection of Animals by your writings,
your lectures and by your organisation of practical work for the
relief of suffering. We note with great satisfaction the scholarly

 




and painstaking manner by which you have enriched the literary
expression of the spiritual and ethical basis of the Animal Protection
movement, thereby adding important evidence to our contention
that the principles of our movement are identical With those of
civilisation and the progress of humanity and not, as our opponents
contend, an expression of one-sided sentimentality. By your pre-
sentation in Italian form of many of the great poems of the World
relating to animals you have manifested an international interest
and insight into the higher unities which bind the truly cultured,
to which we would render special homage.

We have noted with deep interest the great advancement in Italy
of Animal Protection, an advancement to which the Head of the
Italian Government has given his powerful support. This advance-
ment, to which you have so notably contributed, will, we feel sure,
continue, thereby adding yet greater strength to Italy.

Believe us to be,

On behalf of the Awarding Committee,
Yours faithfully,
N INA HAMILTON AND BRANDON. . L. LIND-AF—HAGEBY.

The following is a translation of the reply received
from Professor de Benedetti :—

Societa Zooﬁla Veneziana,
Venice.

To the Duchess of Hamilton and Miss Lind-af—Hageby.

I have received with deep satisfaction the news that the literary
prize of the Bureau International Humanitaire Zoophile has been
awarded to me. ‘

The honour thus conferred upon me does not only gratify my
devotion to a holy crusade, which, alas, is yet unknown to the great
majority of people, but I value it all the more as I believe it
may be an inspiration to others younger and stronger than myself,
to carry the torch to victory, the ﬂame of which is the symbol of
the noblest sentiment of the human heart.

I, for my part, would willingly offer my life in sacriﬁce for this
victory and should die content, but this, unfortunately, is a dream
which cannot be realized.

Let me express all my deepest gratitude for your inspiring letter
which accompanied the gift. May an intense activity help to restrict
(if not, for the time being, to abolish) the crime of vivisection; to
stop menageries and all spectacles of performing animals; the
massacre of seals by clubbing and the ‘ ‘ katzenwiirgen ”; to diminish
from day to day the horrors of trapping, the acceptance of ﬁlms
containing cruelty to animals—and so many other horrors, starting
with the abominable bull-ﬁghts! There are many reforms I propose
to introduce here in addition to slaughter reform and improved
conditions of transport.

Unity of action is very necessary. Sustained international co«
operation would be best, with frequent meetings of delegates from
every country, in order to achieve better results. . .\

Let me offer you once more with the expression of my gratitude,
the tribute due to the moral greatness of your work on which the
blessing of God must surely descend.

AUGUSTO DE BENEDE’I‘TI.

VENICE.

Jammy 15th, 1933.
87

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




   

 

Amongst the works of Prof. de Benedetti we would
specially mention “ Poesie sugli animalz' nclla lirica di og'm'
littcmtum”—a volume of 324 pages. It is an international
; I anthology of poems on animals (translated into Italian)
and contains ﬁfteen poems by Prof. de Benedetti.

   
  
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
   
   
   
   
     
    
 
   
 
   
   
   
     
  
   
     
   
   
     
   
   
   
   
     
   

 

 

Herr Otto Soltau, of Vienna, has done great work for
w‘ the furtherance of humane education. He is a distin-
“11‘ guished actor and orator, has broadcast a number of
M addresses on animal protection and has spoken in concert
‘ ‘2“ halls and theatres. He has lectured on St. Francis and
'1 the animals and has arranged plays on this theme.

 

‘ The list of his many lectures during 1932 included one

‘ I t f: in the great concert hall of Vienna before 2,000 people;
. i 3 is a in the Circus Busch, before 1,800 people; one in a music-
}: I 471‘ hall with an audience of 500 people; and lectures in
cinema halls, workmen’s homes, restaurants, etc. His
Kleiner Tierschute-Kalcnder, published by the Wiener
Tierschutz-Verein, is of great value.

 

 

The prize for humane education work was awarded.
Herr Soltau. The following letter was sent :—

BUREAU INTERNATIONAL HUMANIT‘AIRE ZOOPHILE.
INTERNATIONAL HUMANITARIAN BUREAU.

4, CODE Sr. PIERRE,
‘ GENEVA.
, i February 10th, 1933.

. 171,33” Herr Otto Soltau,

i . 1.1;} Rotenmiihlgasse 5/13,

‘ Wien XII.

Dear Mr. Soltau,

TheBureau has for some considerable time followed with great

‘ interest and sympathy your activities as a speaker and writer on
‘ behalf of humane education. Your lectures to children and to adult
I audiences by which you have reached peOple in many spheres of life,
Mr your radio addresses, and your publications have been of the greatest
= value to the cause of humanity to animals. They have, we feel
‘ sure, been the means of awakening a new consciousness of the kin-

  

 

ship of all living creatures in the thousands who have heard you or
who have read your writings.

 

awarded a prize of £50 for your devoted and impressive work for

. i
a"; ‘ i“ We have much pleasure in informing you that you have been
‘ humane education,

\

_ . Yours faithfully,
‘! i “ 7‘ On behalf of the Awarding CommitteeJ

 
   
     
   

NINA IMMILTON AND BRANDON. L. LIND-AF-HAGEBY.
5‘8

 

 




    

    

In his reply Herr Soltau wrote :—

I beg to express herewith my great pleasure and gratitude for
the high distinction which 13 have received from the International

hireau for Animal Protection.

The appreciation thus shown me is more than recompense for the
wounds received in the ﬁght against stupidity, callousness and
thoughtlessness. You may be sure that in future I shall not lessen
my efforts to werk in our great common cause, and I pray to God
to help me and to lead me rightly in this direction. _

The above-mentioned prizes were donated for the purpose and the
Animal Defence Society did not bear the ﬁnancial responsibility.

The International Labour Ofﬁce and the Protection
of Pit Ponies.———In continuation of previous efforts to
secure the improvement of the conditions of horses and
ponies in mines the President of the Bureau addressed the
following letters to the Director of the International
Labour Ofﬁce.

Harold B. Butler, Esq., C.B.,
Director,
International Labour Ofﬁce, Geneva.

Dear Sir, ‘

I have been asked by the Federacion Iberica de Sociedades
Protectoras de Animales y Plantas to transmit to you a letter
together with copies of Coal Mines Acts of 1911 and 1930, and
a copy of resolutions passed at Congresses for the Protection of
Animals. This letter with enclosures was delivered by hand at
your ofﬁce this afternoon.

The letter from the Spanish Society was written under the misv
apprehension that the Act of 1930 refers to animals, but I trust
that this will in no way detract from the value of the plea that
the International Labour Oﬂice should investigate and regulate
the labour of horses and ponies in mines with the object of
suppressing cruelty and improving conditions of work.

This International Bureau, with which a large number of
Societies in many countries are associated, organised a deputa-
tion supported by over 1,400 Animal Protection Societies, which
was received by the President of the Conference for the Reduc-
tion and Limitation of Armaments last April. In introducing the
deputation I laid stress on the need of protection for the equine
labourers in mines and I now beg you to take action in this matter
of urgent importance.

Believe me,
Yours faithfully, .
L. LIND-AF-HAGEBY.

- January 4th, 1933.
Harold B. Butler, Esq., C.B.,
Director,
International Labour Ofﬁce, 'Geneva.
Dear Sir,

In pursuance of my letter of today, I beg to state that I have
asked Mr. Jeﬁfrey Williams, Secretary of the Pit Ponies’ Protec~
tion Society, to place before you the case for investigation and
regulation of the conditions under which horses and ponies. are
used in mines. and. I understand that he has sent you a letter with
documents bearing on the subject.

89

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

171‘
‘ 1 1M

11

 

 

 

   

I hope that this further appeal from a Society which has com-
prehensive and speciﬁc knowledge of the subject of the use of -
animals in mines will induce you to take the action for which
we plead.

Believe me,

Yours faithfully,
L. LIND-AF-HAGEBY.

In February Mr. Butler replied that he was unable to
take action in regard to pit ponies and horses and stated
that the letters had been sent on to the Secretariat of
the League of Nations.

Your Society meanwhile is endeavou1 mg by every means
in its power to promote the adOption of mechanical haulage
in mines as a substitute for the labour of ponies and
horses. Unlike the human worker, the pit pony seldom
sees the light of day. Green ﬁelds are often but a memory
of better days for the “ slave of the mine.”

The Killing of Seals.—The President of the Geneva
Bureau continued the investigation of methods of killing
seals.

Your Society 1eceived infmmation f1om Mi. W. "E.
Sanderson of the Ame1ican Humane Association relating
to seal hunting in American waters.

International Co-operation. Early in February the
Animal Defence Society received a letter from the Wu-Han
Society for the Prevention. of Cruelty to Animals in
Hankow, China, expressing a wish to become afﬁliated to
it. A reply was at once sent welcoming this afﬁliation
and promising every assistance possible, both in literature
and advice. The Wu-Han Society was founded at the
British Consulate on December 15th 1932; and in its
constitution, then set up, the following are set forth as
its aims: To prevent cruelty to animals, wild or domestic
draught or bred for food To promote the welfare Of all
animals; and to educate people to a realisation of this
aim. Those present on that occasion included the Mayor
of Hankow, who was elected Chairman of the Society,
the Commissioner of Police (elected Vice-Chairman), and
Mr. K. C. Wei and Mr. John Alexander (British Vice—
Consul), who were elected Joint Secretaries. The unme—
diate aims of the Society are “ to improve On and render
more humane the existing methods of dog catching and
destruction, to reduce the number of passengers in pony
carriages and prevent the beating of ponies and the mad.

 

galloping along asphalted roads which is so dangerous.”

Mr. John Alexander, British Vice-Consul in Nankin,
sent the following announcement of conditions in China:

90

 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
   
 
   
    
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
   




You ask me to give an account of the creation and work of the
Hankow Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

1. I was sent to Hankow in January, 1931.

During .the course of my stay in Hankow before my departure
to a new post in June, 1932, the following facts came to my notice
and I made representations privately and ofﬁcially whenever possible
to $1156 authorities—Chinese or Foreign—concerned, with no tangible
res .

(a) Hankow does a big trade in hogs. These are imported to
Hankow and re-exported in large quantities at all times of the
year. They areunloaded from junks (rather like river barges in
Europe) by throwing the pigs on to the foreshore from a height of
four or ﬁve feet. Many of them get crushed, their legs get broken
and they are sometimes more or less unable to move as a result
of the injuries they have received. Consequently, they are prodded
and hit with ferruled and pointed sticks during the subsequent
droving, quite mercilessly. A barbed hook is sometimes driven into
their withers and they are lifted out of the junks and jerked oﬁ
with a twist of the barb lacerating the ﬂesh and causing considerable
bleeding.

(b) Hogs are slaughtered by having their throats slit and in some
cases are disembowelled while still alive, hanging from a beam.

(0) Cattle and sheep are pole—axed or have their throats cut like
the hogs.

(d) Dogvcatching was instituted in some sections of the town
some time ago. The animals were caught with a wire noose, trans-
ported to the police station in a hand-cart (the day’s catch ﬁghting
and tearing at each other on the journey) and forthwith destroyed
without any supervision. In this way, there is no doubt that many
valuable animals were needlessly destroyed. The method of de-
struction used was as follows: A metal-lined wooden box with
perforated iron lower surface was ﬁtted with a charcoal stove, so
that the heat and fumes of the stove played on the lower surface.
The object was to asphyxiate the animal or animals inside. Death
often did not occur for 30 or 40 minutes; smells of burning hair
and ﬂesh and cries of agony ﬁlled the air during the greater part
of this time.

(6) After the creation of the Society, the following also came
to my notice.

Carriage ponies were blinded with a red-hot nail to prevent
shying, the eyeball not removed, and virulent sores were thus
created.

2. On my return to Hankow in the autumn of 1932, I invited
the Mayor of Hankow, Mr. Wu, the Chief of Police, and various
members of the municipal Governments of Greater Hankow to my
house and suggested that the Society should be created. The Mayor
accepted the Presidency of the Society, the Chief of Police the
Vice-Presidency, and I was elected Secretary together with a Chinese
gentleman to help with the Chinese correspondence.

3. The following is the record of the achievements in the ﬁrst
six months of the Society’s existence :—

(a) Proper supervision of the Hog trade was instituted and
various more humane methods of loading and unloading the cargoes
were made compulsory.

(b) Dog-catching and destroying methods were revised; a net
was advocated for the former and, pending the arrival of more

eﬁicient methods, prussic acid was administered for the latter.

91

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

A dog-pound where animals could be kept in kennels was built;
a committee of ladies was formed to feed, inspect and care for
them, and to control the destruction of unwanted dogs.

The Secretary spent two hours a week attending to an amateur
dispensary and ﬁrst-aid station where medicaments were provided
at cost price.

(0) A pony-pound was hired and enclosed, a groom was engaged
and provision was made for looking after ponies which had been
conﬁscated (by the police) at the request of the Society, either to
punish the owner for ill-treatment, or; ending the cure of lameness,
soreness, or general debility due to i1 -treatment and undenfeeding.

Unfortunately no humane-killer was available and it was necessary
to borrow a revolver to shoot permanently maimed animals.

A large number of ponies was treated, detained and kept at the
Society’s expense every month, and cures of the most revolting
harness, bit and hoof sores were eﬁected.

Regulations against the blinding of ponies were issued and hun-
dreds of ponies and carriages were to be inspected periodically,
awards being given for well-kept animals and ﬁnes inﬂicted for
ill-treatment.

4. In my opinion the work performed by the Society is so
urgently needed to mitigate at least a part of the suﬁerings of
animals in the district within its reach, and as an example for other
cities, that to permit a halt in its work would be nothing‘short of
a tragedy. Permanent residents are very rare in Chinese towns
amongst the foreign population and. without the impulse of the
foreigner there is little hope that a society of this nature would
continue its work for long. It is therefore essential that the
Hankow Society be subsidised temporarily from abroad and a per-
manent organisation built up. Local funds are quite inadequate.

Mrs. Raymond, representing the Japan Humane Society,
paid a visit to the Geneva Bureau and took away a number
of publications. A letter was received from Mr. Noboru
Kaneko, Secretary of the society, from which the following
is quoted:

Mrs. Raymond, our Vice-Chairman, returned from her world-
trip just a few days ago with literature, interesting and full of
suggestions. In reporting her experiences during her trip, she
did not fail to inform us of your kind offer concerning the humane

pistol, and also about your collection of reports, documents, etc.,
of every possible society in the world for the common Cause.

A contribution was sent to Herr Caesar Rhan of Berlin,
the chief organiser of a humane exhibition which was
held in the Zoological Gardens of Berlin in April.

Work in West Africa. During the year Mrs. St. John
Eyre Smith, formerly Assistant Secretary of your Society,
carried out an active campaign for Humane Education in
elementary Missions and Government schools in West.
Africa. She gave numerous talks on animal protection in
the schools and to the school teachers, as Well as talking
to mothers and children in her husband’s district. She

92

 




discussed the subject of Humane Education with the native
school teachers in the district and secured in some
instances the inclusion of Humane Education in the curri-
culum in place of what is called “ Nature Study ”——-that
is often the study of the anatomy of the frog or rather the
ubiquitous lizard. She found in one instance in a class-
room a mouse kept in a small glass jar as an object lesson
in nature study. After a short talk the native children
and teachers were as glad to know the true meaning of
nature study as the mouse was to regain its freedom.

She distributed prizes for essays by older children expressing
the best humane feelings, and the infants, too small to express
their ideas in writing, did so in drawings of their favourite
animals and birds. One school set itself a competition for the
best drawing of St. Francis with the birds and animals after
the story of St. Francis had been related to them.

Before her return the school teachers at Mampong Akwapim
made a translation of your Society’s leaﬂet “ Teach the Child,”
by L. Lind—af-Hageby, into the Twi language, illustrating it with
their own paintings and drawings.

Apart from work in the schools Mrs. Eyre Smith has interested
Administrative Ofﬁcers and other Government Ofﬁcials in the
question of Humane Education and Animal Protection as well as in
the Anti~vivisection principles of your Society.

She also personally intervened in cases of cruelty met with in
the transport of animals and fowls, reprimandipng the oﬁ‘enders
and instructing them in the proper ways of carrying animals. She
reported that in every case the cruelty met with was due to
ignorance and lack of thought and in. no instance to deliberate intent
to cause suﬁering.

Work Against the Bull-Fight.—-—There was intensive work
against the bull-ﬁght during 1933. Progress Today of
J anuary—March published an illustrated article against the
bull-ﬁght in France, again drawing public attention to
the great number of bull-ﬁghts held in France, in Bayonne,
Arles, Mont-daMarsan, Béziers, Royan, Villefranche-de
Rouergue, J uan~les-Pins, Sainte-Maries-de-la-Mer, Cavaillon ;
one was held in Grasse and another in Annecy not long
ago.

A picture was published of Iman, a picador’s horse,
with the following description :—

Iman, a horse belonging to the Dax Gendarmerie: twelve years’
service to his record, including three years’ war service, saved a.
man’s life at the Front. Admirably trained by his master who
loved him, he would play like a lamb with the children of the
Gendarmerie. At the age of 18 years he was sold and sent to the
bull-ring. He was seriously wounded in his ﬁrst ﬁght, having
been used against six bulls, but was sewn up and succumbed two
days later in the ring to his third opponent, having in his intense
agony broken the bit between his teeth. . . . How can we speak
of justice and goodness when such things as bull-ﬁghts exist!

93

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




   

 

 

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
  
   
 
 
 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
     
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
    
    
   

The J uly-September number of the journal contained

an account of action taken by Miss Lind-af-Hageby in

3; 3‘1 regard to a bull-ﬁght at Fréjus and an article by her

entitled The Inﬂuence of the Bull-Fight, and another by

1 Miss L. K. Schartau entitled France and the Bull-Fight.

: 9 1 Le Petit Var of May 10th, 1933, contained the following :—-—
W‘ “ In the Fréjns Bull-Ring.

 

 

 

 

‘
3 Grand Killing of Balls on June 11th.
‘ Fré-jus, May 9th, 1933.
j The novillada de mnerte which will be held on- Sunday, 11th June.
3 in the ancient arena of Fréjus, the proceeds of which will be devoted
to anti—tuberculosis work, will be a demonstration of the taurine
art. The matadors of the Madrid Cartel, Michel Palomino and
3 3 Natalio Sacristan Fuentes, accompanied by their cuadrillas of
j 131‘ bandilleros and puntilleros will ﬁght and kill without picadors 4
‘ ;‘ magniﬁcent bulls of the ganadéria of J. Sol (ex-Viret).
1 In addition to the killing of the four bulls, Madame Calais,
‘ 3‘ “7“ caballera en plaza, will be introduced for the ﬁrst time to the bull—
ﬁght enthusiasts of the district. Mounted on her splendid horses
1 ‘33 she will ﬁght two novillos-toros. The spectacle will be concluded
1‘ ‘13 by a “ calf-ﬁght” for children. In spite of the wonderful enter-
“ tainment oﬁered, the price of the seats is very moderate: Reserved
35 francs; Firsts (numbered) 25 francs; Seconds 18 francs, and
Amphitheatre 10 francs.”

Miss Lind-af—Hageby, who for very many years has been
associated with anti-tuberculosis work in the South of
France at Sanatorium Beausoleil (soldiers and children),
found the association particularly offensive. She~ set to
work endeavouring to rouse public feeling against this
performance and appealed to the leading French Societies
1 1 for the Protection of Animals to take strong action. She
‘1‘“ gave ﬁnancial help and wrote :— 4
‘ “ Please note that the men will ﬁrst kill, then a woman
3 will appear, then the children will be allowed to tease a
calf ! '

What an education for children 1 What a school for
sadism and cruelty ! The last item should induce every
believer in humane education to protest.

1‘ As a lover of France and as one who for many years
1 has received at my Sanatorium the tuberculous children
3 . A. of France, I protest strongly against deﬁling l’oeuvre
‘ “3 3 I33 antituberculeuse by this revolting cruelty to animals.
‘ ‘ ‘ About 1,000 of the sick children of the poor of France
3 have received the care of my Sanatorium" and the thought
I‘ “ of the pernicious inﬂuence on the children, whom I also
3 love, ﬁlls me with horror.” '

 

 

 

 

* The Sanatorium received the piplame do Grand Prix and Diplame
d'Honnour of the Minister-e do l’Hygibne and also the Diploma of the Oroix
Rouge Francoise. . . . ' . ,

 




She suggested that protests should be made to the
President of the French Republic, the Minister for Edu-e
cation, to other Members of the Government, the Prefect
ofVar, the Maire of Fréjus, etc., and added:—-

“People will say that this ﬁght in Fréjus is only one
of many and that there is nothing particularly awful
about it, but to my mind it is a very bad example.”

In response to Miss Lind-af—Hageby’s appeal the lead-
ing : French Societies took appropriate action. The
National Federation of French Animal Protection
Societies sent out a large number of letters and circulars
and wrote to the Home Secretary, the Prefect of Var, the
Mayor of Fréjus, to M. René Richard, Député and
President of the Animal Defence Group in the French
Chamber of Deputies, etc.

Dir. Foveau de Courmelles wrote as follows to the
Prefect of Var :—

go the Prefect, Department of Var, Draguignan.

1r,

. We have read with indignation in the Petit Var of the 10th
inst. that a bull-ﬁght is to, be held at Fréjus on June 11th.

This bull-ﬁght will not only include the killing of the bulls, but
a woman will also take active part in this deplorable spectacle.

Moreover, as if the appearance of a woman in the bull-ring
were not enough, it is announced further that the entertainment
will be concluded by a “ calf-ﬁght ” for children.

On behalf of the Fédération Nationale des Sociétés Protectrices .
des Animaux de France, des Colonies et Pays de Protectorat I.
have the honour of addressing to you an indignant protest against
the proposed spectacle, which shows a strong tendency to revert
to the ancient games of the amphitheatre.

We cannot believe that at a moment when all nations are
striving for universal peace and when we are trying to inculcate
in the younger generation a respect for life and a horror of
bloodshed such spectacles can be held in a district, the natural
beauty of which is in itself sufﬁcient to attract tourists who
would be repelled by such cruel forms of sport. ‘

We appeal to your feelings of humanity and would urgently
beg you to take the necessary steps for the prohibition of the
bull-ﬁght on June 11th.

We would like to express in advance our sincere gratitude.
I am, etc.,
I Foveau de Courmelles,
, , . - President.
Paris, May 13th, 1933.
95 -

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
  
 
 

    
  
  

 

   
 
 
 
 
  

 

 

   

To the Mayor of Fréjus 1)1’_ Foveau dc Courmelles
wrote :———-—

“Your good faith has certainly been imposed upon by the
organisers. We cannot believe that at a moment when all nations
are striving for universal peace and at a time when we are trying
to inculcate in the younger generation a respect for life and a
horror of bloodshed you could in all conscience sanction a rever—
sion to blood-thirsty spectacles ﬁt for savages and far more likely
to repel than to attract lovers of the natural beauties in which
your district abounds.”

The Prefect of Var wrote on May 20th to Dr. Foveau
de Courmelles :———

In reply to your letter of the 13th inst, in regard to the
bull-ﬁght at Fre’jns, I beg to inform you that proceedings
will be taken against the aﬁenders in accordance with the
Act of July 2nd, 1850.

Mr. Vittecoq, Secretary of the Federation, pointed out
that this reply did not meet the demand of those who had
raised the protest, and who would be satisﬁed with nothing
short of the prohibition of the proposed bull-ﬁght.

The Socie’te’ Protectrice des Animanx of Paris also took
action. The President, Madame Camille du Gast, wrote
to the President of the Republic, the Home Secretary and
other members of the Government, and also asked M. Louis
Martin, Senator for Var, a Vice-President of the Society.
to interfere. She asked Mss Lind-af-Hageby to send
reports of the anti-tuberculosis work carried out, under
her direction, in the South of France, and expressed her
intention to send those reports to members of the French
Government, Madame du Gast received the following
reply from the President of the Republic :—

Madam,

You have addressed to the President of the Republic a
letter requesting the prohibition of the bull-ﬁght due to
take place at Fréjus on June 11th next.

I have the honour to inform you that the President of
the Republic has authorised me to forward your protest
to the Minister of the Interior.

I am, etc.,

Director of the Oﬁ‘ice of the Private Secretary of the
President of the Republic.
Paris, June lst, 1933.

The Home Secretary (Ministre de l’Intérienr) wrote to
Madame Camille du Gast :-——

96

   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

  




Le Ministre de l’Inté'rieur. Répu-blique Fra-ng‘az'se. Direction de la
Sureté Generate,
3rd Bureau.
Madam,
Bull~Fights.

On May 31st last you kindly drew my attention to a letter in
which Miss Lind-af-Hageby, President of the Bureau International
Humanitaire Zoophile of Geneva, protests against the bull-ﬁght
including the killing of the bulls, due to take place at Fréjus on
June 11th next, and against a “ calf-ﬁght,” in which children are
to take part.

In this connection you draw my attention to the fact that Miss
Lind-af-Hageby founded the sanatorium at Carqueiranne (Var),
where French and Serbian wounded soldiers were tended during the
war, and that in 1920 she converted this sanatorium into a hospital
for children suﬂering from tuberculosis.

I have the honour to thank you for this communication and for
the appended report, which bears eloquent witness to the services
rendered by Miss Lind-af-Hageby’s institution.

The Prefect of Var, to whom I have refer-red the various protests
evoked by the projected bull-ﬁghts at Fréjus, has informed me that,
if occasion arise, the organisers and the toreros may be brought
before the judicial authorities for infringement of the Grammont
law.

I may add that “calf-ﬁghts” have already been held on several
occasions at Fréjus and do not involve any danger to the children
or any cruelty to the animals.

According to the information which I have received the part
played by the children consists merely in removing a cockade placed
between the eyes of a young calf.

I am, etc..
Le Ministre dc l’Intérieur.

The Société Protectrice des Animaua; of Nimes also took
energetic action. The President of the Society, Monsieur
Duranton de Magny, and Madame Duranton de Magny
have distinguished themselves by their courageous and
effective agitation against bull-ﬁghts and the appeal for
their help met with ready response. In reply to a letter
addressed to the Minister for Public Instruction and Art,
Monsieur Duranton. de :Magny received the following letter
dated May 30th, 1933 :—

To The President,
8' Société Protectrice des Animaux, Nimes.
11‘,

You have kindly pointed out to me that a bull-ﬁght, in which
the bulls will be killed, followed by a calf—ﬁght reserved for
children, is to take place in the arena at Fréjus on June 11th next.

I beg to inform you that I am, with special insistence, drawing
the attention of the Ministre de l’Intérieur (Home Secretary)
under whose exclusive jurisdiction such spectacles fall, to the
protest you have addressed to me.

Yours, etc.,
Le Ministre de l’Education Nationale.
97
D

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

      
   
  

 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
    

m .,
iiiiii

 

 

 

   

Radio Protest Against the Bull-Fight in Fréius.-—-—In
Bordeauxma centre of bull-ﬁght ilitereststiss Hall-Holt
has founded the Union F7-'angaisc contre les Courses de
Tanreanx at Sports Cruels. The formation of this Society
caused considerable stir and resentment among the sup
porters of the bull—ﬁght. Miss Hall-Holt responded to the
appeal for help in opposition to the Fréjus bull-ﬁght by
writing numerous letters to members of the Government
and to inﬂuential politicians and journalists. M. l’Abbé
Desgranges, Deputy, wrote her that he had made strong
representations to the Home Ofﬁce (Ministere de l’Intérieur‘)
and that he would acquaint all members of the Animal
Defenders Group in the Chamber of Deputies with the
facts. She also wrote to M. Georges Lion of the Radio—
Journal of France. On May 30th M. Lion broadcast an
address in which he strongly protested against the cruelty
of the Fréjus bull-ﬁght. This address was heard all over
France and a listener reported :—

“ Monsieur Lion spoke with great contempt of the performance
of the lady whose delicate hands were going to kill bulls. He
was very angry over the introduction of the children to the
horrors of the bull-ﬁght and expressed the hope that the Minister
responsible would do his duty and stop the disgraceful exhibition.
He ended by a pun: ‘ un malheureux petit veau qui sera estoqué
par de misérables petits veau-riens ’.” '

Debate in Bordeaux—The S.P.A. of Bordeaux, of which
Miss Hall-Holt was for some time Assistant Treasurer,
arranged a debate on the bull-ﬁght which was held in
the Franklin Hall, Bordeaux, on May 23rd. Before the
debate took place the supporters of the bull-ring in
Bordeaux drew up the following circular which was widely
distributed :—

“LOVERS OF THE BULL-FIGHT! BEWARE !
YOUR LIBERTIES ARE IN DANGER. . .. !

“ Not content with their previous attacks, which have
collapsed in ridicule, the enemies of bull-ﬁghts are launch-
ing a new offensive.

“ Under the patronage of La Tribune Libre, M. Harpain,
theatrical manager and President of the Society for the
Protection of Animals, at a meeting in the Franklin Hall
on Tuesday, May 23rd, will speak on the following sub-
ject: ‘ Has Man the Right to Dispose of the Lives of
Animals for his own Gain and Amusement, and in particu-
lar are Bull-Fights J ustiﬁed? ’

“ What is the object of this theatrical manager, under
cover of his position in the S.P.A.‘I

98

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

  




 

  

“ We shall ﬁnd out by going en masse to the said meeting. It
is a public meeting. Lovers of the bull-ﬁght will know how to reply
to it.

“ We protest in the name and the sacred right of liberty! We
grant the same right to our enemies, even that of attacking us,
but what we do not want is that they should do it in our absence.
And that is why lovers of the bull-ﬁght should be present, so as to
reply again to our slanderers and to let them understand that we
are scarcely prepared to allow ourselves to be molested by people
who could perfectly well employ most of their extreme and much-
advertised sensitiveness in alleviating the sufferings of humanity, of
which the least that can be said is that they are much more urgent.

“ Lovers of the bull-ﬁght, all be at the Franklin Hall, rue Vauban,
on Tuesday, May 23rd, at 8 o’clock.”

Members of the audience at the debate reported that
the defenders of the bull-ﬁght did not get the best of the
argument.

“ There is no doubt,” wrote a prominent worker for the cause of
mercy,” that the French as a whole are against the bull-ﬁght, but
these spectacles are maintained through powerful commercial com—
bines. Public meetings and demonstrations are badly lacking,
and more courage and energetic action on the part of the animal
protection societies are needed.” The writer adds: “ When I go
into a shop and say: ‘ Who will sign against the bull-ﬁghts? ’ the
pen ﬂies from hand to hand.”

At F réjus.—-—Monsieur Duranton de Magny wrote to Miss
Lind-af-Hageby on June 24th :——“ The Corrida of Fréjus,
like all the bull-ﬁghts, was a scandalous massacre. If the
massacre of animals could ever be called an art, this art
belongs to the past, and if it were not for the fact that
the loss of the old skill adds to the suffering of the horses
and the bulls, this circumstance might give us cause for
rejoicing.” Monsieur Duranton de Magny had asked a
devoted worker for animals in Cannes to go to Fréjus
and to distribute several thousands of circulars outside
the arena during the bull-ﬁght. Monsieur Duranton de
Magny added :——“ At the last moment the horses were
omitted from the ﬁght. I further know that by order of
the Government a summons has been issued against the
organisers of the bullﬁght.”*

The following is quoted from the report of the distri-
butor at Fréjus :~-—“ In front of the arena there is a large
ﬁeld where cars are parked. Most of the cars had the
Windows open and I managed to place my circulars con-
spicuously inside. I handed one to the police constable
on duty who could not very well arrest me as a
miscreant, for I had purposely dressed very smartly. This
done I kept close to the arena. There were only two

 

* When prosecutions are instituted, the organisers pay the ﬁne imposed.

99

 

  




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

    

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

horses, magniﬁcent, with beautiful harness and gilt hoofs,
mounted by a woman. All the bulls, except one, were
massacred to death. I waited for them: an uncovered
cart came on which lay the victim, huddled up, a moment
ago a ﬁne black bull, ﬂung carelessly into it—its poor
neck ripped up. It gave me a shock, but it also
ﬁred me with indomitable courage for my mission. When
the cart went back into the arena, empty, I succeeded in
showering my circulars all over it and so it went in.
Imagine the effect it must have made when discovered !
One by one the bleeding bulls were brought out and then,
ﬁnally, out marched the bull-ﬁghters, who seemed ill-
pleased and were arguing angrily. For a moment I felt
tempted to force my circulars on them, but I had
more important things to do. I took up my post where
the spectators came out. My circulars almost ﬂew out
of my hands, hardly anyone refused to take them. I
had a feeling that people were sympathetic; some even
asked me for the papers. My whole large supply was
soon gone. And none were thrown away. People took
them away to read.”

The Inﬂuence of the Bull-Fight. It is difﬁcult to believe
that bull-ﬁght performances are illegal in France and that
transgressions of the law are overcome by the payment of
a small ﬁne. There is no doubt that the bull-ﬁght is repug-
nant to the majority of French people, But the large
ﬁnancial interests involved and the taste for the bull-ﬁght
on the part of the people in the South of France are too
strong. Attempts are constantly being made to introduce
the bull—ﬁght in the centre and North of France. On
March 12th, 1933, the Duchess of Hamilton and Miss Lind—
af—Hageby attended a performance at the Cirque d’Hiver
in Paris, of which the following description appeared in
the above-mentioned article.

 

“ The ShOW, which was advertised by huge posters, with the word
Toms displayed, in various parts of Paris and showing a matador
in the act of killing a hull, was staged by a Spanish company—
at any rate, they wished to appear as Spanish.

One of the items on the programme was une corridw (2 Madrid,
another Travail des No-villos de la gan‘adém’a de Salamanca. We
were supposed to see 16 grand cartel des arenas d6 Sémille, and saw
three toreadors tease a small bull—calf which had been taken out
of a. box, whilst the cirque had been decorated by paint and stage-
craft to look the typical bull-ring with rows upon rows of eager
spectators.

In front of me sat three little boys who had been taken to this
Sunday amusement by their parents. One little boy of eight or nine,
who clearly knew something of Spain, grew very excited and stood

100

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 




up, demonstrating by gesture and word to the other children how
the matador ﬁnally kills the bull in the real game.

Madame du Gast and other members of the Paris SPA. went
to the Cirque d’Hiver on March 7th, and made a protest during
the performance, against the bull-ﬁght show. There was a demon«
stration and a counter-demonstration. The scene ended with the
expulsion of the 50 demonstrators.

“ The repellent book by Ernest Hemingway entitled
Death in the Afternoon (Cape), which was published in
December, 1932, and which received, on the whole,
favourable reviews in the British Press, affords another
instance of the taurine infection which now is everywhere
noticeable. That book, with its sixty photographs, is a
complete exhibition of the cruelty, degenerate mysticism
and gross sensuality upon which the malignant spirit of
the bull-ﬁght thrives. Mr. Hemingway is an American,
and the inﬂuence is apparent. In July, 1933, Philadelphia
almost had a ﬁrst-class bull-ﬁght when Senor Enrique
Robles, of Vieja, Seville and Madrid, tried to stage an
exhibition bull-ﬁght for 300 persons in the slaughterhouse
stockyards, at Ash and Tasker Streets. I have before me
a picture in the Philadelphia Bulletin of the matador
(known in Spain as “ Chicorrito ”) dressed up in all the
gay regalia of the bull-ﬁght, teasing a bull in the stockyard.
We are informed that he was using a sword with which
he has killed a thousand bulls, when two policemen rushed
into the arena and stopped the show. This happened in
spite of the fact that the South Philadelphia Dressed Beef
Company had given permission for the performance.”

“ The matador had also been scheduled to give a bull-
ﬁghting exhibition in Philadelphia on August 2nd. Miss
Nina Halvey took up the ﬁght against the bull-ﬁghter,
declaring that the exhibition had no place in America and
that, with hundreds of other humanitarians, she protested
against bringing into America a form of cruelty which
should, long ago, have been forbidden in all countries.
The protest was successful.” *

Mrs. Marten, Newbury, distributed in hotels in Malaga,
Seville and Granada, publications dealing with bull-ﬁghts
supplied by the Society and its Geneva Bureau.

Humane Education : The Youth Group of your Society
carried out an active campaign during the year.
Advertisements appeared in The Children’s Newspaper
setting forth the objects of the group, and many children
joined. Suitable publications were prepared.

 

* From “The ‘Inﬂuence’ of the Bull-Fight,” by L. Lind-af-Hageby, in
Progress To-day, July-September, 1933.

101

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Members of Youth Organisations such as Scout Masters
and Girl Guide Leaders were asked to communicate with
the Secretary of your Society with a view to introducing
practical animal protection among their charges. Already
The Scout and Girl Guide Rules of kindness to animals
have promoted a sense of responsibility towards our sub—
human fellow-creatures among the members of these
youth organisations.

Mr, F. French, of Northampton, did much propaganda
work for humane education and distributed a large
number of your Society’s leaﬂets for children in the
Northampton area.

“ Teach the Child ” has been translated into Norwegian
and through the inﬂuence of Fru Geirsvold was published
on the cover of an instruction book for boy scouts in
Norway.

Exposing Cruelties of Fur Trade.-—Your Society has
continued its campaign against the cruelties of the fur
trade. Much has been done to enlighten the public as to
the appalling cruelties of seal hunting and the trapping
of fox, bear, beaver and other animals. An active
campaign was carried on in the autumn for the wearing of
the beautiful substitute furs which can be obtained
at some of the large shops. It is now possible to obtain
garments in artiﬁcial fur which in softness and beauty
surpass those made from the skin of animals.

Requests for specimens of fur substitutes were received
by your Society from individuals and Societies in different
parts of the world. A selection of specimens was sent for
exhibition in Brussels where a shop to specialise in fur-
substitutes was opened by the Ligue Belge pour la
Protection des Oiseaux.

Facts and ﬁgures relating to the cruelties of trapping
animals for fur were sent at the request of Colonel Kennard
of the Christian Science Monitor, who informed your
Society that this widely read journal is actively taking up
the question in America and intends to refuse advertise—
ments from ﬁrms which supply furs obtained by cruel
methods of trapping, If this ﬁne example were followed
by the Press generally it would go far towards the suppres-
sion of this cruel and barbarous trade.

The Marquise de Pierre asked for patterns of imitation
fur and expressed interest in the Anti-Fur badges.

102




. Mind in Animals.—,—Much work was done during 1933
to educate the public in regard to the intelligence and
souls of animals. Articles were published on Kurwenal,
the famous thinking, speaking, counting and reading dog
of Weimar. Interesting articles and letters by Mathilde,
Baroness Von Freytag-Loringhoven, the teacher of
Kurwenal, were published, together with an illustrated list
of 62 speaking animals, including Isolde and Lumpi, of
Weimar, and Fips, of Stuttgart. An account was published
of the personal experience of representatives of your
Society. On October 21st, 1930, the Duchess of Hamilton,
the Baroness von Freytag-Loringhoven, Mrs. Mordan and
Miss Lind-af-Hageby Visited the home of Lumpi. The
following is an extract from the diary of Lumpi compiled
by Susanne and Gerda Hensoldt, and records questions
to the dog and the replies of Lumpi, the famous fox
terrier of \Veimar, educated by Fraulein Gerda Hensoldt.

Fraulein Hensoldt: “ Do the ladies speak German ”5” “ No.”
“ French ‘3 ” “ N0.” “ English“! ” “ Yes ”; (pointing to the
Duchess of Hamilton). “ What has Auntie in her blouse ‘3 ”
" Carnation .”; “ What has Auntie :on her head “.3 ” “ Smart
cap” (the German words used were fesche happe). “ Why is it
smart '3 ” “ Out of the common ” (the German word used by the
dog was apart). “ Why have the ladies come?” “ Interest”;
“For whom i ” “ All dogs”; “ Do you think the Aunts’ dogs
can speak also?” “ Yes”; How do they manage this? ”
“ Love ”; “ Do you consider a dog cleverer than a cat ‘3” “ No ”;
“ Why not ”3 ” “ The same ”; “ The aunts would like to buy
you, will you go with them to England? ” “ Y es.” Immediately
afterwards Lumpi tapped “ No.” “ Why won’t you go with
them a!” “ Not alone”; “ But the aunts want to buy you quite
alone”; “ Out of the question ” (the dog used the German word
a usgeschlossen).

Lumpi had been told that the Duchess had 6 dogs, Miss Lind-af—
Hageby 1, and Mrs. Mordan 1. “ Altogether how many dogs have
the ladies here present ‘3 ” “ 9.” “ Why 9 ”3 ” “ Knrwenal.”
Everyone present except Lumpi had forgotten Baroness con
F reytag-Loringho'ven’s dog . . .

It is a fact that the cap worn on this occasion by the Duchess
of Hamilton was “ out of the common,” but who would imagine
that a dog would notice it”! Kurwenal, being asked to say some-
thing polite to a visitor to his home in Weimar, bows his head
and turning to the lady, like a perfect gentleman says,: “ Do you
already know Wetmar ?”

An article entitled “ Souls of Animals ” appeared in
Progress To-day of January-March, containing highly
interesting records of the observations of owners of animals.
The article contained the following introduction :~—

“ Intelligence, Reﬂection, Memory, Comparison, Imagination, Will,
Devotion, Self Sacriﬁce, Premonition—search your own mind for

103

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

words which serve to picture soul and you will ﬁnd that they are, all
of them, applicable to the mental qualities of your fellow-creatures
in fur and feather. There are still people who deny mind in animals.
There is still a school of psychology which regards animals as
automata, animated by ‘instinct’ and ‘ reﬂex aotion’.”

Descriptions were given of an Airedale, who, having been
stung by bees sought veterinary aid; of a dog who knew the
approach of his master at a distance of two miles; of a
household saved by a eat; of evidence of the mysterious
sixth sense in the dog; of a dog who followed his master
through the gates of death. An account was given of the
heroic services of the war dogs of France and Belgium; of
dog heroes who have received the Dog’s V.C. (instituted by
the Daily Mirror) for saving human life. Rin Tin Tin,
the famous dog actor, was also included.

Progress To-day, the journal founded and directed by
Miss Lind-af—Hageby, is a publication which is ﬁnancially
independent of your Society, but which renders great
services to the Society. The journal continued fearlessly
to expose cruelties in high and low places, in connection
with the food supply, amusement, sports, trapping, ﬁlms,
laboratories. The Journal is based on the principle that
all destructive criticism must be accompanied by construe—
tive ideas and work. Many hundreds of letters of
appreciation of the Journal were received. Amongst
articles which appeared in 1933 were the following :
Vivisection and Fundamental Principles, by O. T. Miller;
Have Animals Souls? by the Rev. Edwin. S. Chalk, M.A.,
B.D. ;Vioisecti0n in Germany: General Gcering broadcasts
address on Viuisection; Devils, a poem by William Kean
Seymour; Meditation Reveals, by Alonzo Eugene Austin,
M.D. ;" The Importance of Right .Breathing, by the Rt. Rev.
Mowbray Stephen O’Rorke; The Attitude of a Catholic
Faculty of Philosophy on the Question of Vi'visection, by
Dr. Max, Duke of Saxony, Professor of Theology at the
University of Friebourg, Switzerland; A Pin-Prick Experi-
ment; The H all—M arh of Cain, by Nell St. John Montague ;
Fellow-Creatures, by L. Lind-af—Hageby. There was much
correspondence on Biblical Zoophily, in which Mr. Henry S.
Salt took part. Letters were published on the Transport
of Live Poultry, on the Bobby-Calf Trafﬁc; on Hunting,
Trapping and Balance in Nature; on Animal Protection
Work in India; on Methods of Destroying Dogs and Cats;
on Osteopathy ,- the Kellgren Treatment, etc. Translations
and reprints at." articles in Progress To-day appeared in
many journals.

104

 

 




 

 

Gratitude and Appreciation. As heretofore your
Council remember With deep appreciation the services of
all named and unnamed who have devoted themselves to
the furtherance of the objects of the Society.

With unfailing devotion and high capacity Miss L. K.
Schartau, the Secretary, has continued work which, with
the expansion of activities, grows more arduous and
exacting. Miss B. C. Delius, Hon. Treasurer, has fulﬁlled
her duties with the same meticulous care and deep love
for the cause she serves. Miss Nora Logan, Hon, Secretary
of the Humane Exhibition in London, has been untiring
in her attendance and in giving information to visitors.
Mrs. Mordan, Secretary of the International Humanitarian
Bureau in Geneva, has by her ability, tact and knowledge
of several languages, rendered great services to the
Society’s international work. She has shown remarkable
qualities in winning friendswof many nationalities and of
varied political views—for the cause. Miss Millery is still
a highly valued and beloved worker in the ofﬁces of your
Society, which she has served since 1906.

Tribute by French Society. On February 20th
Maitre Louis Lespine wrote as follows :—

 

LIGUE FRANCAISE POUR LA PROTECTION DU
CHEVAL.

Placée sous le Haut Patronage de M. Albert Lebrun,
President de la République.

55, Faubourg Poissoniere, Paris.

Dear Miss Lind-af—Hageby,

I have the honour "to inform you that our Administra-
tive Council has awarded to you and the Duchess of
Hamilton its highest and exceptional distinction, that of
la grande Médaille de Vermeil.

We attach to this distinction even a greater value than
to the Prize of the President of the Republic, because that
is awarded each year, Whilst the medal in question, has,
since its creation, been awarded, before being presented to
you and the Duchess, only once, four years ago, when it was
given to our former President, founder of the League, in
1909, as co-secretary with the Comte de Grammont .....

The medals will be sent to you. By these the Committee
wanted to show their admiration of the splendid work

105

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

accomplished by you and the Duchess at. Geneva (creation
of the Bureau International Humanitaire Zoophlle, and
action taken at the League of Nations).

I beg you to accept and transmit to the Duchess the
assurance of all my respect and devotion.
L. LESPINE.
Obituary. With profound regret your Council received
the news of the passing of Mrs. Drakoules on January 15th.
She was a Member of the Executive Council of your Society
for 27 years. She worked for many years for social reform
and political regeneration, for the protection of animals
and the futherance of humane diet. Her mind was ever
animated by a sense of the reality of the spiritual life, of
the values which transcend material beneﬁts. Her London
home was the centre of great activity, a meeting-place for
representatives of intellectual and spiritual movements.
Here the Humanitarian League was founded in 1891 (now
dissolved). Edward Maitland, the c-o-worker and bio-
grapher of Anna. Kingsford, was the ﬁrst president. The
daughter of Henry Lambe, B.A.Cantab., her marriage to
Dr. Drakoules (her second marriage) was celebrated in
1907.

Dr. Drakoules, who survives her, is a distinguished author
and sociologist, who for some years was a member of the
Greek Parliament and founded at Oxford “ Erevna,” a
Greek review of broad humanistic principles. The eX-King
of Greece was among the many who sent messages of
condolence to Dr. Drakoules on the death of his wife.

Another great friend and helper of the Cause was Mrs.
Waddingham, who died on November 24th. An article on
Mrs. Waddingham by the Rev. Lionel S. Lewis, M.A.,
Vicar of Glastonbury, appeared in Progress To-day of
October-December. Mrs. Waddingham was for many years
an active and highly valued member of your Society.

Miss Vellenoweth, a member of the National Union of
Women Teachers and an ardent supporter of the ideals of
the humanitarian cause, was for many years an energetic
collaborator in your Society’s humane education work.
Your Council deeply regret the loss of a valued co-worker
and record with gratitude Miss Vellenoweth ’s remembrance
in her will. of your Society, for which she had so long
demonstrated her regard by her active work.

Your Council record with deep regret the passing of Mr.
TheodoreHamilton Hoste, a close friend of the Hamilton
family and a most devoted and understanding helper of
the Society for many years. '

1'06

 




In the passing of Mrs. Crawford Conybeare your Council
have lost a very dear friend. A gentle and kindly
soul, the cause of the animals was most dear to her heart.
Her health made residence abroad imperative, but she made
her inﬂuence felt at Bordighera, where she actively
supported the branch of the S.P.A. of which her husband,
Admiral Conybeare, was President.

Your Council deeply deplore the tragic death by murder
of Rao Badahur J ambulingam, your Society’s able repre-
sentative in India. For years he wrote weekly letters to
this ofﬁce giving an account of his work for animals. The
kind friends who remembered the Society in their Wills
are not forgotten.

 

The Bureau of Daily Information. The Correspon-
dence of your Society has increased enormously and it is
no exaggeration to state that its contacts are world-wide.
Japan, China, Africa, New Zealand, South America—letters
come from'far—away places asking for information, advice,
services. Your Society maintains close association with
societies in France, Switzerland, Italy, Spain, Portugal, ,
Austria, Sweden, Norway, Denmark, the USA. and
Canada. Visitors come to the ofﬁces from the four quarters
of the globe and there is constant circulation of publica— _
tions.

The Country-Side Diary. Your Council each year
gratefully record the generous tribute to your Society’s
work in the pages of The Country-Side Diary by its Editor.
This artistic little volume has become an indispensable '
companion to lovers and students of life in nature, who
ﬁnd an inexhaustible joy in watching, day by day, the
unfoldment which marks the progression of the year. To
the busy town-dweller, shut in by bricks and mortar and
surrounded by the sights and sounds of our machine-made
“ civilisation,” it brings a vision of life, free and beautiful,
the breath of the heath and the wood, the sweet sounds
of the birds and of little feet, treading the earth to which
we all have an equal right.

 

107

 

 

 

 

 




List of Subscriptions and Donations
TO

The Animal Defence and
Anti-Vivisection Society, 1933.

Contributions given between

January lst, 1933, and December Slst, 1933.

 

 

 

 

 

1.1
of”

Abbott, Charles C., Esq.

Abbott, Miss F. E.

Abraham, Miss E. C.

A....CGrW (Anti- Vivisection).

Acton, Mme. Beatiice

Adams, Miss N.

Aikman, Miss J.

Allen, Mrs.

Allen, Mrs. ...

Allison, James, Esq.

Anderson, Miss E. J. ...

Anderson, Miss H. M.

Annesley, Mrs. ..

Anon

Anon

Anon

Anon (Christmas Fund)

Anon

Anon

Anon

Anon

Anon

Anon (In Mem01y of M1. Horatio Bottomley)
Anon

Anon

Anon

Ansell, Miss J. M.

Arliss, M1. and Mrs. George .
Arnold, Mrs. Henry (for 1931,19321933)
Arundel, M18. .
Askew, Miss L.

Assheton, Mrs.

Atherton, Dr. Lionel

Austin, Dr. Alonzo Eugene

m
can—km 1+:
1.1

1—1

 

 

 

 

1.1

2
O
0
0
2
1
0
2
5
2
2
1
0
0
O
0
0
O
0

HH'

H

5-4 1-:
ONNOOHONUI NOOUIOOOOHEONNUIUI

 

Bagguley, Mrs. E.
Bagguley, Miss M.

Baker, Miss

Baker, W. C. (Youth Group):
Balfour, Mrs. Pearl

Ball, C. E. Esq.

Bannerman, Mrs. d’Ai'cy
Barber, Miss ..

Balker, Lady Clemency

1.1

Hb—J
omozooocao wooeoooczoco.moooooooooommomooamoooo?‘

 

 




Barraclough, F. L. (Youth Group).
Barrios, Mlle. de

Barton, Mrs. Bolling W.

Barton, Mrs. M. E.

Batchelor, Miss W. I. (Youth Group)
Bates, Elliot (Youth Group) ..
Batlivala, Miss B... .
Batlivala, Miss B.

Batten, Mrs. Mount

Batten, Miss B.

Baugh, Mrs.

Battus, Mrs. E. C. .

Bayley- Worthington, Mrs.

Bayly, Mrs. Beddow

Baynes, Mrs.

Baynes, Mrs.

Beauchamp, The Countess

Bell, Mrs. .

Bell, Mrs. C. E.

Bendall, Miss E. A.

Bennett, Mrs. B

Bennett, M. J., Esq.

Berry, Mrs.
Bertie of Thame, The Viscountess
Best, The Hon. Margaret

Betteley, Miss A. E.

Betteley, Miss A. E.

Bevan, Miss Phyllis (Youth .Group):
Bird, Mrs. Geoffrey ..

Bisdee, Miss

Blacklock, Mrs. Geo1ge”

Bladworth, K. T, Esq.

Bladworth, K. T., Esq. (Slaughter .Refoun)
Blake, Miss Marguerite ..
Blake, Miss Marguerite .
Blamires, Mrs. (for 1932 85 1933).
Blundell, Miss V. M.

Bodilly, Richard John, Jun. (Youth Group)
Boitel- Gill, Mrs.

Bond, Mrs.

Bond, Miss J.

Boning, Harold L. ,Esq (Youth G1 oup)
Boreel, Miss S.

Bowden, Dr. R. "T

Bowman, Miss Evelyn

Boxall, Mrs. L.

Boyd, Miss M.

Boyd, Miss

Boyes, Mrs. E. . .

Boyes, Mrs. E.

Bradford, Joseph, Esq

Bradley, Miss G. M.

Brain, Miss Mary E.

Brand, 0., Esq.
Brew-Mulhallen, Mrs. . .

Brice, Miss Ellen

Bridgman, Mrs. Ida

Brindley, Miss M.

109

N83

Hut—a

Ca"!

15

U! [0me

.m

l—J

1—1 H
OIOOOOOrP-OHHHmoos—A

141—1

1—4 [—1 i—a
owOHHomom

1.1
O

[CO

i—l 1—4 [—1 l—H—‘l—IH Hi—J
owOI—IUINOHONOOOOOOOI—t

1.1

1.1
ONOU‘NNHONNNUIN

H

canoes-accomczczoaooooomocooocmmoocomooowoomooomooooooooooomooo?‘

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Brisley, Mrs (Collection taken at Meeting)
Br,ooke Mrs. Alan

Brooke, Miss Angel Stopford”

B1ooks, Miss Florence ..

Bruce, Miss .

Bruce, Miss Isabel

Bryan, Miss

Bucklaw, Alfred, Esq”

Bullough, Mrs.

Burgess, Mrs.

Burke, Miss Vivian Butle1

Burton, Mrs.

Bulton, Miss

Burton- Jones, Miss M.

Bush, Miss G.

Butler, Mrs.

Buxton, Miss H. A Wilmot

Byron, Miss E. B.

Cains, Miss M. E.

Calderara, Miss D. ..

“ Caleb and Benny Boy ”
Ca11ende1,Mrs. ..

Campbell, Miss E. C. ..

Campbell, Mrs. E. G. L. S. G” Mui111ead.
Campbell, Mrs. J. .
Cann, Mis. .

Capey, Miss P. . .

Capon, Miss E. M.

Capper, Lady .
Caravan, Collections taken in

Carew- Gibson, Mrs. F. G.

Carleton, Mrs. .

Carleton, Miss

Carryer, Charles B. ,Esq.

Carter Mrs...
Carwood, Sidney (Youth Gioup) ......
Castle Stewart, The Dowage1 Countess of.
Chadwick, Miss C... .
Chadwick Miss E. D.

Chaplin, Miss L.

Charlwood, N. H., Esq.

Charlwood, N. H., Esq.

Charman, Mr. and Mrs. Tom
Charrington, Hugh S., Esq.
Cheesman, Miss Constance

Chignell, James, Esq.

Chi ell, Mrs. James

Chi d, Lady Wyndham

. Christie, Walter C. B., Esq.

Churches, Miss (for work against Dental ”Expe1i:

ments on Dogs) .
Clacton and District Anti-Vivisection Society
(Afﬁliation Fee)
Clark, Mrs.
Clark, Mrs.

Clark, Mrs Baylield (towa1ds expenses of Confer:

ence on June 14th).
110

m

1—11-1141
momem.

H HHH HHHH H
Hmwomoommoooocoomoooommw

0 000 O OOOOOOOOOQDOGOOO’EOONOQGOGOOQOOOOOOCOOIOOOOOOOOQOGOC‘HQ

 




Clark, Miss R. I. Kynoch
Clarke, Mrs. D. A.
Clarke, Mrs. R. Stanley
Clauss, Mrs. ......
Clauss, Mrs. ......
Clemons, Mrs. F.
Clinch, Mrs. M. L (Slaughter Rlefmm)
Coates, Mrs. Eleanor A.
Cooking, Harry, Esq.

Coe, The Misses M. & D

Cole, Miss A.

Combe, Mrs. Kenneth

Compton, Miss Beatrice

Congreve, Celia, Lady (Tea Party Fund)

Congreve, Mrs...

Cook, Mrs. J. Nield
Cooke, Mrs. E. A.

Cooke, Miss Irene

Coombe, Miss

Coombe, Miss Margaret
Cooper, The Hon. Mis.

Coote, Lady Eyre

Corah, Mrs. .

Coram, Miss L.

Costigan, Mrs.

Cound, A. M., Esq.

Cound, Mrs. .

Coustol, Mrs.

Couzens, Mrs.

Cowderoy, Miss L. M.

Cowgill, Miss
Cox, Mr. and Mrs. Edvvaid
Cox, Mrs. Edith ..

Cox, W. A., Esq. (for 1932)
Cox, W. A, Esq. ..
Cragg, Miss K. E

Cragg, Miss K. E.

Craufurd, Mrs.

“C. R. C.” ‘
Crofton, Miss Marian
Croucher, Mrs. Theo .
Cruikshank, James H, ”Esq.
Cumming, Miss A. P.

Cunliﬁe- Owen,J Mrs.
Cunningham,J .(Youth G1 oup)
Curtis, Mrs. .

Curtis, Capt. and Mrs.

Daniel], Miss E.
Daniels, Miss M.
Davey, Mrs. Arthur
Davey, Mrs. Arthur
Davies, Miss Gr.
Davies, Mrs. Dixon
Davies, Miss M. . .
Davison, Mrs.
Dawson, Mrs. .
Dawson, Miss J.

111

L—A

Oil-4H
oommmommmowmmwooor

Hl-l

r—w—a

a [O 1—4 es?"

‘1

r..
VV

1...:

10

U'UINNOU!

1.1

i—J

r-I ’ 1—1
CROOLO‘O HHHOOH

H
DIONNO

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Dawson, Miss S. E.

Day, Mrs. (Proceeds from Sale of Jewellery)
Day, Miss ..

Dean, The Misses M. and A.

Deeley, Miss Ethel (Youth Group)
Deeley, Pat (Youth Group).
Delius, Miss B. C.
Delius: Miss B. C. ..

Delius, Miss B. C. (For Mono ’s Fund)
Denton, Mrs. ...
Despencer- -Robertson, Miss K. L.
Despencer -,Robertson Miss K. L.
Dick, Mrs. L. H.
Dickeson, Mrs.

Dickinson, Ralph J., Esq.

Disson & Sons, Messrs. J.,
Dix, Mrs. W. R.

Dobelli, Mrs... .
Donegall, The Marchio'ness of”
Doubleday, Mrs. H. A.

Doughty, Mrs. Lena

Douglas, Mrs. W

Douglas, Miss Maud

Douglas- -Hamilton, The Lord David”
Douglas- -Hamilton, The Lord David
Drage, Mrs. . .
Drury, Mrs. Garling

Drury- Lowe, Vice- Admiral S R.
Duff, Sir A. Grant
Duﬁ, Lady Grant

Dummett, Mrs. Charles H.
Duncan-Craig, Miss

Dunn, Miss Sylvia

Durham, The Lady Agnes

Durham, The Lady Agnes
Eatheiley, Miss Edith.

Eatherley, Miss Edith

Eaton, Mrs.

Eckbo, Mrs.

Eden, Mrs.

Eddy, Mrs. .

Edmunds, Dr. H Tudor

Edwards, Mrs...

Edwards, Miss Barbara

Edwards, Miss Barbara

Elliot, Mrs. Hugh

Elliot, Mrs. Hugh

Elliott, J. Dehane, Esq.

Ellis, Miss Ada M. .

Enberg, Miss

Enberg, Miss

Entertainment, Eroceeds from (“ Columbine in

Cricklebury ’ ’)
Enthoven, Ernest J., Esq.
Epstein, Maximilian, Esq. (for 1933 & 1934)
Escombe, Miss Edith
Estcourt- Oswald, Dr.
Evans, Miss Frances

i—l Hi—xwm—w

1—1141—1101-4

0
2
0
0
0
0
5
5
‘ 5
0
0
5
0
1
2
2
1

1-4 r—I
OHHCNI—IOUIOb—H-‘OI—IWOS”

H

b-J

l—H—H—l HHHl—J
mmomoooomoommoooc

1—11-41—1
coo

1.4
003

 




Evelyn, Miss Helen
Exhibition Collecting Box

Eyre- ~Smith, Captainb 85 M1s. St John (Foru Animal

Defence House)
Fage, F., Esq.
Falbe, Miss Lucie .
Faulkner, Captain & Miss E. (for circulation of
Progress To- day) ..
Faulkner, Miss E. (Collection)
Fellowes, Air- Commodore
Fellowes, Mrs. .
Fenton, Robert (Youth Group)
FenWick, The Rev. & M1s. R. J.
Ferguson, Ivor, Esq.
Fergusson, Miss A. M
Field, Miss P. M.
Fisher, Miss I.
Fitzgerald, W. W. A., Esq. ..
Fitzroy, Lady Cecilia
Fletcher, Miss M. E.
Fonblanque, Mrs. de
F‘orster, Mrs.
Forsyth, Miss Helen
Foss, M1s. Celia
Foste1, Miss D. (Youth Gioup)
Foulger, Miss C. G.
Freeman, J. ,.Esq
Frewer, Miss G.
Fry, Mr. and Mrs.
Fuller, Mrs.
Fyfe, Miss
}ai1".d11e1 Miss B.
Galleani, Signorina Clara di
Galletly, Miss W. .
Galsworthy, Mrs. John
Gardner, Hon. Juliet
Garrard, Mrs.
Gaskell, Miss C. E.
Gaskell, Miss G.
George, Miss Agnes E
German, Mrs. Hector
Gibbs, The Misses
Gilchrist, James, Esq.
Gillespie, Miss Agnes
Gillespie, Miss Agnes
Gillman, Miss Margaret R. (Anti-Vivisection)
Gilmore, Mrs. W. E.
Giobel, Miss Louise M.
Girdwood, Mrs. .
Glanville, Miss Mabel.
Gleghorn, Martin, Esq
Glenny, Miss Edith
Glover, Miss F.
Goater, Miss W. M L
Godwin, Mrs...
Goodacre, Mrs.
Goodchild, Mrs.
Goodwin, Mrs. .. .
113

H 011-4 H l-H—ll-l

[\Ol—H-J

1.1
H H U'IUIOOHNUIl—‘OO

1.1
DINNNUIWNON ONOHNOHQO

141-4 1—1
mmmomm

H

H
U'IOOOU'IUTNONOOO

$9.94

0030

QCOOOOOOODOOOEEOOOOGOGGQCOGOC} OOOOOOOOOQOOOOGOOOOOOCQC

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Gordon, A. O. P., Esq.

Gordon, M1s. Kenneth

Goulding, Mis. Ha11y

Graham, Miss Madge (Co ppe1 ()01191t1o11)
Grant, Miss A E. .
Grant, Mrs Cyril

Gray, W. (Youth (uoup)

Greaves, Miss A...
Greenhough, Mrs. C. E.

Greensill, Miss S. ..
Greenwood, Lady

Greenwood, Miss E.

Gregory, Miss Florence

Grestock, Ge1ald Beresford, Esq.
Greville, Miss C.

Greville, Miss U. (Collection)
Grieve, Miss E. deW ...

Grieve, George M. D. (Youth Group)
Grifﬁn, H. M. Esq.

Grifﬁths, Miss L.

Glimshaw, Miss

Gurney, S. ,Esq..

Gulney, Miss
Guthrie, Mrs. Hope Moncrieff

“H..&H”

“ H. 85 H., with the blessing .of St. F1ancis ”

Hadﬁeld, Lady.

Hall, Miss Mary
Hallam, E. C., Esq.
Halliday, Miss

Hall- Smith, M1s.
Halman, Miss Emily . .

Hamilton, Duchess of (per Miss Enberg and Miss

Halliday) .
Hamilton, Miss Mary Cleland”
Hamilton, Miss Mary Cleland
Harding, Miss E... .
Harley, Miss Agnes
Harley, Miss Agnes
Harradine, Miss E E.
Harris, Mrs. E.
Harrison, Charles W., Esq.
Harrison, Miss I. (Slaughte1 Reform)
Harrison, T. 0., Esq.
Hart, Miss Corisande M.
Hart, Mrs. ...
Hart, Edmund S., Esq
Hart, Edmund S., Esq.
Hart, Mrs. Edmund S.
Hart, Mrs. Edmund S.
Hart, S. Hopgood, Esq.
Hart, Mrs. S. Hopgoodu
Haslam, Miss E.‘
Hatley, Arthur, Esq.
Hawker, Miss Bessy E. G
Hawkins, Miss .
Hawkins, Miss
Hawkins, Miss Mary Lucy

1-41—1 1---1 m
ooomoo.

1-11-1
HmmoitconmooomMHUlocoH

1.1

1...;
ONOO

1-41-41—41—1 1--1 H 1—11—1
HHOOOONOHNHOHOOU‘QHO‘ 011—11011:

1-11-41—1 1—1
oooomo

OOQOOOOOOOOOQOOGOOOOOOOOUIO OOOOODOOO OQOCDOBOOQFOQOOODOOCO33300009

 

 




 

Hay, Miss Di

Haybittle, Miss N. M.

Hayes, Miss F. B.

Hayes, Rev. Will

Hayhow, Mrs.

Hayhow, Mrs.
Heap, Miss L., and Two Fiiends
Heath, Mrs. .
Heath, Mrs. ..

Heathcote, Lt. -Com. G. C.
Heaton-Armstrong, Mrs. E.
Heginbottom, H. ,Esq.. .

Henshaw, Miss Pollie

Hibbard, Miss E. ..

Hickson, Miss Annie

Higgins, Miss Agatha

Higgins, Mrs. Sydney.

Higginson, Miss Sarah (Youth Group)
Hill, Miss E. (Youth Group).
Hill, Lady .. ..
Hipwell, Lewis W. Esq.
Hipwell, Lewis W., Esq.

Hirst, Mrs. E.

Hodgkin, C. E., Esq.

Hodkinson, Miss V.

Hogarth, Miss E.

Holcombe, Mrs. (Slaugl1te1 Refer-33111)
Holmes, Mrs. A. Beresford

Holmes, Mrs.

Homer, Miss (“ In Memory of Maiie Illington ”)
Hoopes, Mrs.

Ho,rsfall Miss G.

Houlding, Brian (Youth G1oup)
Houlding, James (Youth Group)
Hughes, Mrs. E.

Hughes, Miss Florence.

Hughes, H., Esq.

Hunter, Sir George, K.B..,E DHSe
Hurst, Miss L.

Hutchins, Mrs.

Ince, Miss

Ingersley, Miss Karen (Youth Group)
Inglis, Mrs. Campbell. .
Irving, Miss V.

Irwin, Mrs. P. N.

Izod, Miss

Jackson, Mrs. E. F.

Jacob, Miss E. .

Jahn, Mrs.

James, Brig. -Gen. C. H., (1B C.M.G. (Slaughter
Reform) .

James, F. W., Esq.

James, Miss

Jarner, Miss

Jenman, Miss C. P. ..

Jensen, Friiken Marie

Johns, A. E., Esq.

Jones, Mrs. M. H.

115

0:8!

141—:

U!

m

1.1
UTOJCOOOOO-

1—1 1—A
01010130

1...:

1...;
HOLOHCHCHU‘Oi—‘HCONEOG3

1.4

Hi—‘Ol—‘OOO

1—I 1—u—x 1-4 s—1 1—1
0101-1 can: owoot‘az-io HNOOHO

H
OHMNL‘O

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




:m
-

LEWE? +31?

‘, I ~15. bay“ 2.
A“ f {I T3332;

 

 

r ‘s‘c’ Exv A A .- ~.4 . . , .
J, g «BH‘,L‘- I, 1: ‘ A“ ".‘f .
‘.£;AA 1: , . «.49. A - '-. _'

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Jones, Mrs M. H.

Johnson, Miss M. (Slaughter Refo1m)
Johnston, Michael (Youth Group).
Johnstone, Ian (Youth Group)
Joynt, Dr. N. L.

Judson, Mrs. Stiles

Karpoﬁ, Madame V. .
Kay, Mrs. V. Lennox
Kearne, The MissesL . and B.

. Kemball, General Sir George V., K C. M. G.

Kempe, Miss M. H. H.
Kendall, Miss Georgiana
Kennedy, Mrs.

Kennedy, Mrs.
Kennedy, The Misses (Youth Group)
Kerry, Pastor

Ketler, William H. Esq
Key, Lady
Kilsby, Mrs.

King, Miss Amy

King, Mrs.

Kingsbury, Mrs. Gerald
Kingsford, Miss E. B.
Kirkman, Dr. A. H. B.
Kirkpatrick, Miss Ida ..
Knight, Miss L.

Knight, Mrs. W. H. (In memory of W. H. MK.) I

Knowles, Mrs. Andrew
Knowles, Mrs.
Knox-Niven, Miss
Kymbrell, H., Esq.

Lachlan, Miss

Langridge, Mrs.

Lardelli, Miss G.

Large, Mrs. John

Latham, M1s. John .
Latour, Countess Vincent de Baillet
Latour, Countess Vincent de Baillet
Law, Mrs. Ernest .. ..
Law, Miss M. (Youth Group)
Lawrence, Mrs. G. F.

Lawrence, W. E, Esq}:

Lawrie, Miss G.

Lear, Mrs. Edith ..

Lear, Miss Lilian C.
Leatherdale, Mrs.

Leatherdale, Mrs.

Ledwidge, Miss

Lee, Mrs.

Lee, The Misses M. and J.

‘Leith, Miss A. A.
[Le Marchant, Mrs. William ..

Leutscher, H. G. (Youth Group)

Lewis, Mrs. Edwin 0.

Light, Miss ..

Lind- af- -Hageby, Miss

Lind- af— -Hageby, Miss (Income on Residue of Estate
" of the late Mrs. Harford Adlam). .

116

(n

1.1

H HH 1-4
CONOONOHNQJUIOIO‘IN'r-‘Ulwm mOb-H—H—IO.

1—1 l-H—‘H
WNOHUIOOO

1.1

1.1

1.1

1.1

l—l 1—1
OHOHO‘IONNNMHOOOHOOOOOUON

1.:
OO

O

O OCOOOOOOODOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOCD OGDOOOOOGﬁOOQOﬁOQOOONmOO0303 OOOOOOP"

 




Lind- af— -Hageby, Miss (Income on Residue of Estate
of the late Mrs. Harford Adlam).

Lippincott, Mrs. .

Little, J. M., Esq.

Littleton- Wheeler, Mrs. G. B

Littleton-Wheeler: Mrs. G. B.

LLewhellin, Miss O. ..

Lloyd, Miss E. H. R. .

Lockhart, Miss Mary M. (Youth Group)

Logan, Miss Nora .

Logan, Mrs. and Miss

Logan, Mrs.

Long, Miss C. L.

Longbourne, Mrs.

Lowther, Miss Aimée

Luck, Mrs. Arthur

Lumb, Lady ..

Lupton, Malcolm P, Esq.

Lushington, Major Sir Arthur

Maberly, Gerald G. .

Macdonnell, Miss (Ant1-V1v1sect10n)

Mack, Miss .. .

Mackenzie, Mrs. L.

Mackintosh, Miss ..

Mackinnon, A. (Youth Group)

Macklin, M1s.Rome1 (F01 1932 and M1933):

Maclellan, Mrs. .

Maclellan, Miss

Macmillan, Mrs.

Macnaghten, Miss Lettice

Macpherson, Miss L.

Mactaggart, Mrs.

Madder, Miss

Madge, Mrs.

Magrane, Mrs.

Maides, M.rs M.

Makepeace, Mrs. Colyer

Malleson, M1s.

Manning, Miss

March, Arthur 0., Esq

Marras, Mrs. Mowbray

Martin, Edward, Esq.

Masham, Miss E.

Mason, Miss Clara

Mason, William H., Esq.

Mason, William H, Esq.

Massy, Colonel.

Matcham, Miss M. Eyre

Matron and Nursing Staff, Batte1sea Genelal
Hospital, Collection for Humane Slaughter

Maude, Mrs.

Maule, Miss Hilda

Mavins, Miss

Mavins, Miss

Mayall, Mrs. ..

Mayhew, Miss Patricia (Youth Group)

McAlpine, Sir Robert

McClemont, Miss M.

McInerny, Miss A.

117

HNHH H H

l—ll—lHl—lw

Ull—J

U“!

100

H 1—4
oo

1...:
HOOHNHOHHDOONI‘DO

1.1

HHl—J

1—1 y—s
HNOOOJNHHOOOHNCOOOOONONNOOI—‘OLO

l—IH

l—H—J
OOOH

1.1
[\DHOHOO

P“

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

McKinne1B1own,M1s.

McNeil], Miss Joan (Mono ’s Fund)
Meacham, Miss Fanny B. and Miss MainNV1ioht
Meadows, Miss F. E. . .
Merry, M1s..

Middleton, Arthur, Esq.
Mildmay, M1s. St. John

Miles, Mr. Derwent M.

Miles, Mrs. Deiwent M.

Miller, Miss D. R. .

Miller, Edwin R. S., Esq. ., D. 0.
Miller, Maj01 F.

Miller, Miss K

Miller, Miss K.

Miller, 0. T1, Esq.

Millery, Miss

Mills, Captain C.

Milman, Miss R. L. H

Moleyns, The Hon. A. F.
Molteno, Mrs. L. L.
Moore, The Rev. C. A. G. ..
Moore, Miss .

Moorhouse, Miss Ethel N.
Mordan, Mrs. M. E.
Mordan, Mrs. M. E. (Mono’ 8 Fund)
Mordan, R. B., Esq. .
Morden, M1s. .

Morgan, Miss Winified V...
Morrice, A. G. (Youth Group)
Morris, Mrs.
Morris, Miss E. A.

Morris, Miss Ethel

Morris, Miss M. E.

Mor1is, Miss Ma1y E.

Morse- Boycott, Mrs.

Morton, Miss M. (Youth Gioup)
M01ton, Miss M.

Mosley, Elizabeth Lady .
Moutray, Miss Una (Youth Group)
Mulleneux Grayson, Lady
Mulline1, P., Esq.

Mulroney, Capt. V.

Munsey, Miss B. C.

Munsey, Miss J.

Murgatioyd, Miss (Anti- V1V1seot10n)
Muzio, Miss .

Nathan, Mrs. Matthew
Nelson, Miss K.

Nettlefol-d, Mrs. Archibald
Newby-F1 asei, Miss M.
Newby-Fraser, Miss M.
Newman, E. S., Esq.
Newman, Mr. and Mrs. Richard
Newton, C. E., Esq. .
Newton, Mrs. C. E.

Newton, Mrs. C. E.

Newton, Mrs. C. E.

Newton, Mrs. C. E.

118

[3

[‘0

[O

[03—1

10

1—4 HH
oomoooooomwmm

)..—1

HH HHHH
wooHocoo

HH

1.1
NOHONDNUI OOLOLOOOIQHONHOINGE

141-4

141-4
wqqoo

GOGQOOOOOOOCBO OOGZODOOOOOQOOOO®QOOOCOOCOGOOOOOOGQOOOQOOOOOQOQQP‘

 

 




 

 

 

Newton, Mis. O. E.
Newton: M1s. C. E.

Norris, Albert, Esq. (152)} 1932 and 1933)

Norris, Mrs. H. du C.
Northbrook, Nina Countess of
Northcott, Miss M. E. .
Nutting, Miss

Oldham, Mrs. ..

O’Leary, Miss K.

Olsen, Miss

O’Neill, Miss D.

Osborn, Miss D. E.

Osborn, S. J., Esq., In Memmy of
O’Sullivan, Miss ..
Outhwaite, Miss E.

Paine, Mrs. Lewis

Palairet, Mrs.

Palmer, Miss Sylvia . .

Parke, W., Esq. .

Parker, Bliss E. E. (Anti- Vinsmtlon)
Parker, Mis. Gertrude S. ..
Parkin, Miss, the late

Parsons, Mrs.

Parsons, M1s

Partridge, Mr. and Mrs.

“ Pat ”

Paterson, Miss L. H.

Pearce, Miss Susan R. (Youth Gioup)
Pease, Paul, Esq. ..

Pedersen, Miss Betty (Youth Group)
Penny, Miss E. Cameion

Perceval, Miss .

Perkins, Mrs. E.

Perkins, Miss

Perry, Mrs. .

Perry, Tom (Youth Gioup).

Petit, Mademoiselle
Phillips, Miss Ethel

Phillips, Mrs. H. M.

Phillips, John C., Esq. '
Phillips, Miss Ruth (Youth Group)
Philp, Miss Naomi F.

Philp, Miss Naomi F

Pickard, Mrs.

Pickering, Miss E.

Pickering, Mrs. G.

Pierrepont, Miss F. .

Pigott, Miss Esme T.

Pilcher, Mrs. David

Pilcher, Mrs. David (’l‘ea- Paity Fu und)
Pletts, Miss Meg (Youth iroup).
Poore, Vincent, Esq
Pope R. B. ,Esq.

Porritt, Miss Joan A. (Youth Group)
Porter, Miss M.

Pott, Miss J. C

119

8')

HM

DOS—8

LO "r—l

1—11—19an 1—H—4 1—:
99999:.4 991—1199131051"

.I—lﬁ—l
00

H 1...; 1—1 H 5-4

5.1

1...;
“MOWOHOHOOOHOHHON‘IOl-REGOONCE-J

4.1

.__,
ONHECHHPAOOWOINU‘NIOH

H

M. a.
99999999999999.a999999999999o9999993999999 99999999 99999-.9.

 

 

 

 

 




1...:

NOHNNNHQP

Powell, Miss

Powell, Miss

Pratchett, Miss

Pratchett, Miss

Preston, Mrs.

P1evett, Miss Lily (Youth Group)
Prichard, B. Copinger, Esq. .
Prickard, Miss E.
Prince, Miss M.

Pritchett, Miss

Pullar, Mrs. A. E. ..

Pye, Miss V. (Youth Group)

Quicke, Miss E. Pen1ose . ..
Quiévreux, Monsieur Louis (F01 Gifts of Dog

Licences) . ..
Quinton, Mrs.

Raeburn, Miss R. M. ..

Raﬁles, Mrs. T. S. .

Rainey, Lt. -Col. J. \Vakeﬁeld

Rake, M1s. .. .

Rake, Mrs.

Rake, Mrs. ..

Ramsden, Miss C.

Rannie, Mrs. David ..

Reade, Miss E. Stafford

Reddall, H. L., Esq.

Reed, Mrs. Lester

Reeve, Miss

Reeves, Mrs. Edwaid ..

Reeves, Miss E. M. (Youth G1oup).
Reynolds, Miss Madeline . . .
Reynolds, Miss Madeline (F01 Gift of ”Dog Licence)
Richards Miss Louie

Richards, M1s.VVinds01

Richardson, Mrs. A. E. V.

Richardson, Miss

Riddell, Mrs.

Rigg, Miss Elsie

Ripley, Mrs. Ida ..

Robe1ts, Mrs. F. M01rell (Slaughtm Reform)
Roberts, Mrs. .

Roberts, F. W. Esq. (Slaughtei Reform).
Roberts, I A., Esq.

Robinson, 0. H., Esq.

Robinson, Mrs. C. H.

Robinson, Miss Enid (Youth Group)
Robinson, Mrs. W.

Robotham, Mrs.

Rogers, Miss H. E.

Rogeis, Cecil (Youth G1oup)

Rogers, J ohn. (Youth Group).

Rolleston, Miss D...

Rooke,M1s. .

Rose, Miss O. J M.

Rosenbaum, J. M., Esq.

Rowlands, Miss M. ..

Ha:

 

 

L\D
1.1

1.1
O

 

1...:
CD

 

 

 

 

 

 

U?
QQOOGOOOQQOOOOOOOOOOOOQOQmOOQOOOOOOOOOOO mo 0 OOQOGOOQGGOGP‘

.4
NNOONH-‘l—lo

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

' £ s. d.

Rowley, Miss S. V. A. (s) 2 6
Rudge, Miss Violet (s) 3 O 0
Rudyard, Lawrence F. H. (Youth Group) (s) 1 0
Rudyard, M1s. (d) 1 6
Russell, Miss Florence (s) 10 0
Ryves, Miss E... . (s) 10 6
Sadler, Miss Louise (Youth G10up) (s) 1 O
Saﬁord, Miss Stella, OMBE .. (s) 17 6
Salvage, M1s. M. V. (s) 2 6
Salvage, Mrs. M. V. (s) 2 6
Sampson, Miss C (d) 2 6
Sampson, Miss C. (d) 2 6
Sampson, Miss C. (d) 2 6
Sampson, Miss C (d) 2 6
Sampson, Miss C. (d) 2 6
SandfOId, William, Esq. . (d) 2 6
Sangste1, A. E., Esq, M..1%C.VS (s) 2 6
Savile, Mls. Frank (Anti Vulsoction) (d 5 O 0
Savile, The Lady Mary (d) 5 0 0
Savile, The Lady Sarah (d) 2 6
Saywood, Miss (d) 2 6
Schartau, Miss L. K. (s) 1 0 0
Scott, Miss C. L. (s) 10 0
Scott, Miss Louise B. (d) 2 O 0
Scott, M1s. M. (s) 10 0
Sedgwick, M1s. IIubert (d) 1 1 O
Sennett, Mrs. M. Aincliffe (s) 5 0 O
Seton—Saye, Mrs. D. (s) 2 6
Seux, Madame (d) 2 4
Seux, Madame (d) 2 0
Seux, Madame (d) 2 0
Seyniour, Mrs. Beatiice Kean (s) 1 10 O
Seymour W. Kean, Esq. (s) 10 0
Sey',mouI \V. Kean, Esq. .. (d) 10 0
Shaftesbuly, The Countess ofH(Slauohte1 1%ef01m) (s) 1 1 0
Shalpe, M1s. (s) 1 1 0
Shalpe, M1s.. (s) 1 0 0
Shaw, James E. (Youth Group) (s) 1 0
S11eppa1d,M1s. Henry (“ In dear Memory of

Hemy Sheppa1d”) (d) 7 5 0 j
Sheppard, Mrs M. (d) 2 0 0 ‘
Sibree, Miss M. (s) 2 6
Sidney-Smith, Mrs. (s) 'H. 0
Sidney-Smith, Miss P. (s) 10 0
Sidney-Smith, Miss P. (d) 7 G
Simner, Mrs. Gordon (d) 10 6
Simner, Mrs. Gordon (d) 10 0
Simpkins, D. A. Esq” .. (d) 1 6' (‘I 1.
Simpson, Miss Price (d) 2 0 O
Sinclaii, M1s. M. (Slaughte1 Refoim) (s) 10 0 (
Sinclai1, Mrs. M. . (d) 5 0 ‘
Sladen, Mrs. (s) 1 1 H
Slater, Mrs. (s) 1.0 0 '
Slater: A. H. (Youth Group)” (s) 1 0
Small, Mrs (In Memory of “ ”Sparkie ’7). (s) 2 6
Smart, Miss N. (s) 2 6
Smith, Dr. D. Langnam (s) 10 0

121

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Smith, Miss Daisy .

Smith, Miss E. F. W. (Slaughter Reform)

Smith: Edward (Youth Group)

Smith: Miss E. H. (Youth Group).

Smith, Mrs. F. Yorke

Smith, Mrs. F. Yorke

Smith, F. R. G., Esq..

Smith, Miss Mary H (Youth Group)

Smith, Miss L. Bullen ..

Smith, The Misses

Smithe, W. A. ,.Esq (For Work Abroad through the
Geneva International Bureau for Protection of
Animals»

Smyth, Mrs. (Slaughter Refmm)

Smyth, R. A. E. ,Esq.. ..

Snow, Mrs.

Snow, Mrs. (For Publications)

Snow, Mrs.

Snow, Mrs.

Snow, Mrs.

Some1s, Mrs

Somerton, Mrs.

Somerville, Andrew E. "Esq“

Spackman, Miss

Sparrow, C. D. (Youth Group)

Spence, Miss

Spiers, Mrs. Victor

Stallard, Miss Hannah

Stansfeld, Miss I. E.

Staunton, Mrs. ..

Steane, George A., Esq

Stedman, T. Gurney, Esq.

Stevenson, Sir Daniel (Towards Educational Work
in Connection With the Humane Exhibition)

Steuart, D. S. Spens, Esq.

Stockwell, Mrs

Stone, Mrs. E. H. (Collected by Osborn Place
School Children fOr Gift of Dog. Licence)

Sto1r, Miss E. M.

Stout, Mrs. (Slaughter Reform) ..

Stout, Mrs. (Christmas Collection for Slaughter
Reform .

Strange, Miss V. L. ..

Stratton, F. Esq. (Sale of Print).

Street, G. (Youth G1 oup) . ..

Strode, Miss A. C.

Stutﬁeld, R., Esq.

Sullivan, Miss E. A. . .

Summerson, Capt. Samuel

Summerson, Mrs. S.

Sumner Trust, The Sir John ..

Swanberg, Mrs. .

Swinburne, Mrs.

Tabor, Mrs. J. C.

Targett-Adams, Mrs.

Tatton, Miss E.

Taylor, A. H., Esq.

122

1—11—4

LONUIUIOINO

[Cl—J

HMN}

m

5.1

Ol—‘l—‘OOOHHNO

1.1

1.1
ONQDNOONHOtOCONOOOOOOO‘D

l—H—l

1—1

0190

OOOOOOOQQOOOOOOG

ooooocoomo?

OQO 000303000506303030500000903

33

03C)




Taylor, Miss M. .

Tedeschini, Herr Emidio

Tedeschini, Herr Emidio

Thesiger, Mrs. Ernest

Thomas, Mrs.

Thomas: Mrs Evan .

Thomson, Mrs. Hadley

Thomson, Mrs. Hadley

Thorn, Miss M. S.

Thornblad, Miss Ina

Threadgold, Frederick, Esq.

Threadgold, Frederick, Esq.

Thurgood, Miss.

Tibbles, Mrs...

Tideswell, Miss W.

Timewell, Mrs.

Todd- Naylor, Miss

Topham, Mrs. Alfred (Towards Expenses of Edith
Douglas- -Hamilton Memorial Caravan)...

Trachy, Mrs.

Trevelyan, Lady Alice

Tubbs, Miss M. A.

Turner, Miss Helen (In Memory of “ HPudgM’)

Turner, J. W., Esq.

Turnour, Mrs Gerard.

Tyson, Mrs.

Tyson, Miss F.

Unwin, Mrs. Cobden

Van Oppen, Hugh (Youth Group).
Vaudrey, Mrs.

Vellenoweth, Miss L.

Vincent, Miss A. M.

Visick, Arthur, Esq.

Visick, Mrs. Arthur

Vivian, Dr. Margaret C. .
Vivienne, Miss Violet L., and F1 1e11d

Waddingham, Mrs.
Wadham, Mrs. V.
Walker, Miss Frances T.
Walker, Mrs W. F.
Walke1, W. H. H., Esq.
Walker, W. H. H., Esq.
Wall, Miss Phyllis V.
Waller, Mrs. Pickfo1d
Waller, Miss Sybil
Ward, Miss E. G.
Warden, Miss
Wareing, Miss Vera L
Webb, Miss .
Webb, E., Esq.

Webb, W. H. Esq.
Weeks, Miss Joan (Youth G1oup)
Weir, Mrs. E. A
Weldon, Miss Sybil
Welland, Miss

123

FD

03
5‘

[O HHNJ

Cl

H C!

1.4

NMONl—‘i—‘NNOUIU‘U

1—1
D—‘EOOEON

1—: 1—11—11—1
OOOOOH

O

t

‘,_1
Cl C-

CGOGGGQOQOOOOOOOOP‘

O:

OOOOOOGOQOOOOOOCOOO GOGGOOOO

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Welton, Mrs.

Welton, Mrs. (Slaughte1 Refoim)
Went, Douglas, Esq...

West, Miss Edna .

VVestacott, C. A., Esq.

Western, Miss

Wetenhall, Miss F. M

Whalley, Miss M. . .
Wharton, Mrs. N. Eden
'Whitbread, Miss Dora M.

White, M1s.

Whitmore, Miss

Whitney, Mrs

Whitworth, Mrs. .
Wigram,Robe1t M. (Youth Group)..
Wilkin,F1ank (Youth Group)
Williams, Miss A. H. “(For” 1932 and 1933)
Willifer, Mrs.

Willifer, Mrs.

Willoughby, Lady Muriel

Wilson, David, Esq, J. P.

Wilson, The Rev. David
Winant, Mrs. Z. .
Winckworth, Mrs. W. F.

Winton, Brig- Gen. C. de

Wolﬁ", M1s. de . . .

Wolff, Mrs. de

Wolseley, Lady

Wood, Mrs. Jy L (Slaughter Ref01m)
Woodcock, Maj01 A. B.
Woodcock, Mrs. A. B.

VVoodiuff, Miss E.

Worsley, M1s. A. .

Wright, Miss A. C. G.

Wright, Miss Bettina (Youth Group)
Wright, Miss B.

Wright, Miss Charlotte

Wright, Miss E. Keith

Wright, Miss Helen

Yandell, Miss

Yandell, Miss (In Meniory of Miss Pauliiie Hull)
Yano, Miss Betty (Youth Group).

Yariow, Lady

Yates, R. O, Esq. (Slaughter Reforin)

Youde, Mr. and Mrs.

Young, Miss

124

A
m

v
GIN

H

141-4 HH 1-:
SMEMONMHOOQHHNONONOMWNNNN

CJIOONHNNNOOOIO

1—1

5—1
03 NOOOHHU‘I

ooomoommmmoomoooomoocoooomooomooommmo©09

00 03000009

 

 




 

 

Gifts and Sales Animal Defenders’ Bazaar.

November, 1933.

Acland-Hood, Lady Helena
American Ambassador, H.E. the
Anon ..

Anon

Anon

Anon

Anon

Anon

”Aibuthnot MIs Stewart

Arundell of Wardour, Lady.
Blamires, Mrs.

Brasier- Creagh, Mrs.

Bromet, Mrs.

Buxton, Miss H. A. Wilmot. .
Castle Stewart The Dowage1 Countess of.
Child, Lady Wyndham

Congreve, Mrs. . .

Cornah, Miss .. .
C1uikshank, James H., Esq.
Cummins, Miss .
Davis, Mrs.

de Barri0s, Mademoiselle

Delius, Robert, Esq.

Deterding, Lady . ..
Dunbar of Mochrum, Lady
Dundonald, The Earl of

Dysart, Lord

Evelyn, Miss Helen

Gasque, Mrs

Glasgow, Mrs.

Gordon, Lucy, Lady Duff

Greaves, Miss A., and Friend
Harvey Nichols, Messrs.

Harvey Nichols, Messrs.
Isfandiary, Noury Khan

Ismay, Mrs.

J eﬂcock Miss

Kenyon, Miss Sybil

Knowles, Mrs. Andrew . .
Laurvig, H.E. Countess Ahlefeldt
Lawrie, Mrs.
Legg, Miss M. G.

Leith, Miss A. A.

Luck, Mrs. Arthur

Lucy, Lady

Lumb, Lady

Macrae, Miss Dorothy

Maude, Mrs.

Mavins, Miss

McAlpine, Sir Robert.

. 125

1.1
1—110
HUGE-PUMA

i‘b

HHH

H01L\DCJ~J

‘ 1—1
001830101 i—‘O HUIEOHUH—‘ba

1.1
1.1

NH

w :n

"I 250

E”

1.1
NoU‘lOONOI‘QOOOOOQOCJOcOUIOOOIOOOO

H

1.1
ONOOOOOONNNHDGOONUIUH—JOOOJOO

 

 

 

 

 




Eh

McGallum, W. Malcolm, Esq..
Merry, Mrs ..
Newton, Mrs. C. E.

Northbrook, Nina Countess of
O’Sullivan, Miss

Plymouth, The Dowager Countess of
Paget, Rt. Hon. Sir bRalph” K..CM.G.
Pelly, Lady . ..

Perutz, Victor, Esq.

Plunket, The Lady ..‘

Raeburn, Miss R.-.M.

Reeves, Miss E. M.

Rorie, Miss

Rowlatt, The Misses A. and L.

Savile, Mrs Frank . .
Singer, Mrs. Washington

Snow, Mrs.

Stallard, Miss Hannah

Stauber, Mrs. .

Stout, Mrs.

Tweeddale, the Marchioness of
Wilson, The Misses
Youde, Mr. and Mrs.

 

 

 

mm 03H

 

 

 

 

LQNH H HH

H

 

 

 

l—‘l-J

£517
Sales Animal Defenders’ Bazaar 488

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

HH HH

5.;
to 00 OHHNOOOOONOHHOOOoole-l

1...:

co?"

    

HH ooomooooomoooooooooooocg

[‘0

 

 




 

 

The Animal Defence and Anti-Vivisection Society.

 

Receipts and Payments Account for the Year ended 3lst December, 1933.

 

 

RECEIPTS. s 5.
...1,163 17 9

Balance from Last Account
Subscriptions, Donations and Collections ...1,616 6
The Duke and Duchess of Hamilton:
Special Donation for Maintenance of
Humane Exhibition and additional rooms 400 0
Humanitarian Reserve Fund: Donation ...1,000 O
Legacies:
The late Mrs. Kemble .. 50 0
,, Miss Katherine Hamilton 4 10
,, Miss A. E. M. Moore 100 0
,, Mrs. Osborne 100 O
,, Miss L. Vellenoweth 25 0
Sundry Sales . 43 9
Interest on Deposit Account 1 17
Proceeds of Animal Defenders’ Bazaar ...1,005 9

£5,510 10 3

 

PAYMENTS.
By Publications, Printing, Translations and
Stationery
Rent of Ofﬁces
Rent of Exhibition Rooms
Exhibition Maintenance, Repairs and Ofﬁce
Expenses
Publicity Campaign, Advertisements, Meet-
ings, Lectures and Demonstrations
Salaries and Clerical Assistance
Humane Slaughter Appliances
Postages and Telephone
Geneva International Bureau : Dental
Counter-Competition Expenses, Purchase
of Exhibits, Salaries, Rent and Mainten-
ance ...1,003 4
Bank Charges, Audit Fe and Legal
Expenses

14 17
Balance at Blst December, 1933

...1,331 15

£5,510 10
B. C. DELIUS, Hon. Treasure-r.

 

 

We have examined the above Receipts and Payments

found it to be correct.

Carlisle House,
8, Southampton Row, London, W.C.1.

3lst May, 1934.

Account with the books and papers relating thereto and

THOMPSON, LEVETT 85 CO.
Auditors,

Chartered Accountants.

 

 

 

 

 

______——-———

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




The Animal Defence and

Anti-Vivisection Society.
REPORT

FOR THE YEAR 1934.

1934.—-The year 1934 was notable through the intensive
work of your Society against cruelties in the production of
ﬁlms and against Rodeo performances. Your Council have
pleasure in presenting a report of much activity and
progress in the departments of humane education and
international co-operation for legislative reform. The
fruits of six years’ persistent work in Geneva on the part
of the Humanitarian Bureau were apparent in the animal
protection action taken by the League of Nations. Much
advance was made through the exposure of the failures
and fallacies of vivisectionist methods of research, and
the advocacy of methods of healing and prevention of
disease which are dissociated from vivisection laboratories.

Rodeo and Film Cruelties.———On May 31st your Society
held a great public meeting at the Central Hall,
Westminster, London, against the Rodeo performances
which were to take place in London and against ﬁlm
cruelties. Great publicity was given to this campaign
through large and well-displayed advertisements in the
Press. The meeting was attended by over 1,000 people,
including ardent defenders of Rodeo.

Supporters. The Chair was taken by Miss
Lind-af-Hageby, and the speakers and supporters included :
The Duchess of Hamilton, Squadron-Leader the Marquis
of Clydesdale, M.P., Mr. Shaw Desmond, Mr. J. Morewood
Dowsett, Commander J. L. Cather, R.N., Mr. D. Jeffrey
Williams, Mr. Henry B. Amos, Mrs. Arncliffe Sennett, The
Bishop of Barking, The Bishop of Salisbury, The Bishop
of Hull, The Duchess of Grafton, The Duke of Westminster,
Frances, Countess of Warwick, Viscountess Dunedin, the
Rt. Hon. Arthur Henderson, M.P., the Rt. Hon. George

1‘29

 

E

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Lansbury, J.P., M.P., Lord Allen of Hurtwood, Viscount
Bertie of Thame, Mr. Vyvyan Adams, M.P., Major C. R.
Attlee, M.P., Mr. Oliver Baldwin, Sir Granville Bantock,
Sir A. Shirley Benn, Bt., K.B.E., M.P., Miss Lilian
Braithwaite, Mr. John Buchan, C.H., M.P., Captain V. A.
Cazalet, M.C., M.P., Mr. Thomas A. Cook, M.P., Col. Sir
George Courthope, Bt., M.C., M.P., Hon. Sir Stafford
Cripps, K.C., M.P., Mr. G. Daggar, M.P., Mr. R. J. Davies,
M.P., Capt. Arthur Evans, M.P., Mrs. John Galsworthy,
Mr. N. B. Goldie, K.C., M.P., Dr. G. P. Gooch, Mr. James
C. M. Guy, M.C., M.P., Mr. P. J. Hannan, M.P., Sir John
Haslam, M.P., Mr. Holford Knight, K.C., M.P., Mr. W. S-
Liddall, M.P., Rev. J. Scott Lidgett, C.H., M.A., D.D.,
Commander C. Locker—Lampson, C.M.G., D.S.O., M.P., Sir
Frederick Mills, Bt., M.P., Mr. H. W. Nevinson, Mrs. H. W.
Nevinson (Evelyn Sharp), Mr. G. Nicholson, M.P., Sir
Cooper Rawson, M.P., Mr. R. J. Russell, M.P., Dame Sybil
Thorndike, Sir J. Matthewson Watson, J .P., Mr. H.
Graham White, M.P., Sir John Withers, C.B.E., M.P.,
Mr. B. N. H. VVhiteside, M.P., the Lady Mary Savile,
the Earl of Mexborough, the Hon. Mrs. Forbes,
Dr. and Mrs. Atherton, the Countess Beauchamp,
Lady Blomﬁeld, Miss D‘elius, Miss Nora Logan, Mrs.
Mordan, Mrs. Congreve, Mrs. Ernest Thesiger, Miss Madge
Graham, Miss Lardelli, Mrs. Angus Macnaghten, Lady
Henschel, Mr. Staunton, Mr. Noel Cassal, Baroness
Djurklou, Lady Penson, Lady Low, Mr. Morley Steynor,
the Marchioness of Donegall, Mr. Hopg ood Hart, Captain
and Miss Faulkner, Captain and Mrs. Sherrin, Mrs.
Fleming Baxter, Mr. Stratton, the Rev. Lionel Lewis, Mr.
Arncliffe Sennett, Mr. Spens Steuart, Miss Nancy Price,
Mr. Bowring Hanbury, Captain St. J. Eyre-Smith, M.C.,
Mrs. Eyre-Smith, Madame Bologne Heiser, Miss Loat,
Lady Lumb, Mrs. Dudley Ward, Mrs. Raymond Savage,
Mr. and Mrs. Burt, Mr. Wyatt, the Rev. E. F. Udny, Mrs
St. John James, Countess La Tour, Mr. Edward G. Smith,
Mr and Mrs. Cuthbertson Smith, Dr. Fielding Ould, D1.
and Mrs. Beddow Bayly, Mrs. Selby Lowndes, Lady
Clifford Cory, Mr. Spurrier, Miss Charlotte Woods, Mr.
Hanbury Tracy.

The large and 11,111 esentativc assembly on the platform
showed the extent of public indignation and support of
the protest made.

Messages of sympathy were read. His Grace the
Archbishop of Canterbury sent the following message:
“' His Grace regrets that he has an ”important engagement
that 'eVening which will prevent his being present, but he is

130

 

 




 

 

in sympathy with your protest against the cruelty involved
in many Rodeo performances.” Squadron-Leader the
Marquis of Clydesdale, M.P. : “ Good wishes for successful
meeting. Regret Holyrood duty prevents my being
present.” The Duke of Hamilton: “ Best Wishes for
successful meeting.” The Bishop of Salisbury: “ I am
glad to give my name as a supporter of the Meeting to
be held on Thursday, May 31st, in London. I regret,
however, that my engagements here prevent my being
present personally.” The Bishop of Barking : “ I am very
sorry that I cannot be present at the meeting on the 31st.
I hope that it will have great weight in banning every
item in the coming show that might possibly involve
cruelty.” Professor Gilbert Murray: “ I am sorry that
my engagements in Oxford prevent my attending the meet—
ing of the Animal Defence Society on Thursday night. I
need hardly say that I am in the fullest and strongest
agreement with your protest.” Sir Hesketh Bell: “ I
trust that the meeting will be a success and will assist the
admirable work that the Animal Defence Society is doing.”
Lord Allen of Hurtwood: “ I am cordially in sympathy
with what you are doing.” Mrs. John G—alsworthy: “ I
am in complete sympathy with both the objects of the
protest meeting on May 31st and shall be glad to be con-
sidered a supporter.” Dr. Scott Lidgett: “ I am sorry to
say that I have a. very important engagement on the
evening of May 31st which will keep me from attending
the meeting of protest against the Rodeo performances. I
shall be glad if you will express my sympathy with the
object of the meeting.” Dame Sybil Thorndike: “ I am
afraid that I shall not be able to attend the meeting on
May 31st as I am on tour. Please put my name on the list
of supporters of the Meeting and I hope it will be a very
successful one.”

The Viscount Bertie of Thame: “ I am wholeheartedly
in support of the meeting to be held in the Central Hall,
Westminster, on the 31st May against Rodeo performances
and ﬁlm ‘ﬁghts to the death ’ between animals, but I
greatly regret that I shall not be able to be present as I
cannot be in London that evening.” Mr. Oliver Baldwin :
“ I shall certainly be only too pleased to be registered by
you as a supporter of any meeting to protest against
American methods of amusement which have as their main
object the mental and physical ill-treatment of animals. I
presume that we. shall soon witness a shipload of American
gangsters on their way to England to show us how they
do things over there. I have no doubt their publicity

131

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

agents will point out that the men to be ‘ put on the spot ’
enjoy the performance.” Mr. Arthur Middleton of
Manchester: “ Greetings and hearty good wishes from the
Humane Education Society, Manchester. May your noble
efforts on behalf of animals in need of friendship and pro-
tection meet with success. True British sportsmen support
you. Urgent duties prevent attendance.” Fru Dr.
Geirsvold, President of the Central Union of Norwegian
Animal Protection Societies: “ Good wishes for meeting.
Hoping England will continue setting example in humane
treatment of animals.” The Countess Alberti d’Enno of
Geneva : ‘ ‘ Warmest good wishes for a successful meeting.’ ’
Father Malcolm Ramsay, Priest-in-charge, Felpham and
Middleton: “ I regret I cannot be with you to-morrow. I
wish your meeting the greatest success. Would it not be
as well to request their Lordships (the Bishops) to bring
before Convocation the essential step of requesting the
clergy to voice a protest throughout the country against
what is an exhibition of scenes that are unchristian and an
insult to ﬁlm lovers, as well as being an incentive to that
ﬁghting spirit disarmament is trying to abolish.”

Other sympathetic messages expressing support and regret at not
being able to be present, were received from the Duchess of Atholl,
M.P., Lord Noel Buxton, Mr. Peter Freeman, The Rev. Will Hayes,

the Earl and Countess of Shaftesbury, the Marquis and Marchioness
of Ailesbury and Viscountess Dunedin.

Mr. Henry Amos, who, owing to illness, was unable to speak, as
announced, wrote: “I can only now send you all my prayerful
wishes for the success of the gathering, hoping that it will fan the
ﬂames of revolt in many hearts so that the imposition of the
debasing Rodeo may be frustrated. Two thoughts are specially on
my mind as I write—(1) The pernicious effect of the exploitation of
animals for pleasure on the child-mind of the nation. This is a
supreme issue, as children are the sounding-board of the future, to
Whose well—being all moral issues must be resolved. (2) That there
is an international gang trying to foist Rodeo and allied turns on
Europe as a prelude to bullﬁghting. They tried it several times
in the south of France last year and the year before. This year
they tried it at our own doors—Dieppe—and now Tex Austin spreads
his wares here, in our beloved London, where we of the advance
guardhave a peculiar responsibility to resist. I can only pray that
the friends of progress and humanity may rally.”

The Resolutions.-———The Chairman called on Miss Logan
to read the following Resolutions :—~—

(1) That this Meeting records its strong protest against
all entertainments which provide amusement and sensation
out of the swﬁ‘ering of animals, and which, by showing acts
of brutal mastery .of animals or artiﬁcially staged ﬁghts
between animals or between men and animals, appeal to

132

 
   
   
    
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
  
    
 
  
 
 
 
   




primitive and bloodthirsty instincts, debase human
character and tend to lower civilisation.

(2) That this Meeting protests against Rodeo Perform-
ances of any kind in Britain on account of their fully-
proved association with cruelty to animals, and declares
that by giving facilities for the passing of legislation-to
remove the worst features of Rodeo and at the same time
providing facilities for Rodeo Performances to be held in
this country under the same director as in 1924, the
Government has acted in opposition to humane and
enlightened public feeling.

This meeting is further of opinion that the Protection
of Animals Act (1934) (Rodeo Act) will be ineffective in
preventing cruelty unless the right to appoint inspectors
independent of Government is given to recognised humane
Societies with the power to inspect the animals without
notice at any time before, during and after the Perform-
ance, and that the police shall satisfy themselves that the
participants have no means or appliances to goad or injure
the animals.

(3) That this Meeting declares the present censorship
of ﬁlms to be unsatisfactory and inadequate, as has amply
been shown by the public exhibition in recent years of a
number of ﬁlms showing animals forced into ferocious
combat, and other acts of cruelty which, were they com—
mitted in public without the protection of a ﬁlm licence,-
would be severely punished.

In view of the evil influence exercised by such ﬁlms,
particularly on the young and impressionable, this Meeting
«calls on the Government to institute an eﬁ‘ective Board of
Film Censors including representatives of humanitarian
Societies, and urges the religious and educational authori-
.ties of this country to take action for the suppression of
.such ﬁlms.

Reason for Calling the Meeting: Chairman’s
Address—In opening the meeting, Miss Lind-af-Hageby
:said: Ladies and Gentlemen, there are several aspects of
the subject before us this evening: one is that of cruelty
to animals, another is that of what we might call cruelty
‘to human beings—the mental cruelty of corrupting their
emotions and mental images. There is this growing ten-
dency to present ﬁlms which give you “ thrills ”—scenes
of bloodshed, the chase, violence and intense excitement. It
is difﬁcult to speak of the mental state of the purveyors of
these scenes of perpetual violence which are sent over to

133

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

European countries. W’hether they are. intended to ﬁll
the minds of human beings Who have no thoughts with
violent emotions and thoughts, or what the ultimate inten—
tion is, beyond that of making money, it is difﬁcult to say.
There is a tendency in these days of mechanised, over-
congested city life to go back to Nature. At least, that is
what we are told. You see advertisements of “Nature
in the Raw.’ ’ You see advertisements of “ Wild Animals.’ ’
And you have these ﬁlms purporting to show us Nature-
You have also a great many ﬁlms relating to gangsters
and criminals and the exploits of those who move
perpetually in deﬁance of the laws of civilised countries.

Our point is that these “ Nature ” ﬁlms, these “ Jungle
ﬁlms ” so-called, showing artiﬁcially-staged ﬁghts, artiﬁcial
hostilities and artiﬁcial rage are really distorting Nature
and that the young people of to—day have a false image of
Nature given them, one that is not true, and very inimieal
to their whole manner of thought. In April last there
appeared a letter in The Times from Sir Hesketh Bell,
which. was remarkable. He drew attention to a horrible
advertisement of a coming ﬁlm—one of ﬁghting beasts
and the usual horriﬁc scenes and asked “ Are we going
back to the days of the gladiatorial shows, are we going
back to the contests and the blood—ﬁlled amusements of
ancient Rome? ” and he added that judging by events it
seemed that we are getting very near such a time.

There has been a series of ﬁlms within recent years
which have shown scenes of cruelty, sickening scenes of
ill—treatment of animals. We know that perfectly tame
animals are forced to appear wild and are made to ﬁght
inthose ﬁlms. Only the other day I went to see a ﬁlm
here in London which was full of killing and of attacks
and escapes and horrible noises. Nature was represented
as “ red in tooth and claw,” and there was perpetual
danger and perpetual excitement.

The staged Rodeo is, in our view, a cousin—it may
be a distant cousin, but nevertheless a cousin—of the
Spanish bullﬁght. I should like to say one word in regard
to the spread in Europe to-day of the inﬂuence of the
bullﬁght. It is manifest in France, and in this country
there have been signs recently of the same successful con-r
tamination. There was recently shown in London a ﬁlm
offering all the pageantry, the “ thrills,” the excitement,
and the supposed heroism of the bullﬁght.

There were, as you know, Rodeo performances in London
in 1924. Prosecutions were attempted—they did not

134

 




 

succeed—on account of the cruelty. I saw several ofthe
performances and I do not think there was any doubt
on the part of any humane person who was present that
acts of gross cruelty took place. On the evening of June
17th one steer had its leg broken; on June 18th two steers
Were very lame, one steer had its neck broken, and eight
steers were bleeding from the nostrils. On June 16th two
steers had their horns broken. That is from. the recorded
list of events in 1924.

Let us go back for one second to the gladiatorial shows.
I was looking up this afternoon one of the statements
of Lecky in his famous History of European Morals. He
said that in the gladiatorial shows they made the
carnage of men their habitual amusement and the shows
were defended as sustaining the military spirit. And
only the other day at a lunch given in support of the
forthcoming Rodeo, we heard that Rodeo is essential to
humanity, because it sustains “manliness.” Lecky further
says of the gladiatorial shows—and this is very signiﬁcant
—-—“ To men who were accustomed to witness the ﬁerce
vicissitudes of deadly combat, any spectacle that did not
elicit the strongest excitement was insipid.”

Recently, owing to the danger of Rodeo being presented
here in the same manner as in 1924, Sir Robert Grower,
representing the R.S.P.C.A., introduceda Bill, and that
Bill received such excellent support from the Houses of
Parliament that it is now the law of the land. But there
are so many things that are inherent in Rodeo that we on
this platform are sure that the only proper way would
have been to forbid the participants in the Rodeo to come
to England at all.

Riding bucking horses, steer-roping, steer-wrestling,
steer-riding, bulldogging, are the common features of the
Rodeo as it is staged in the United States of America and
other countries. \Ve have on this platform the new law
as it stands, and it may be necessary later on to refer to it.
I ask you to note that Mr. Tex Austin, the man who
directed the Rodeo in 1924, is going to direct the new
Rodeo in 1934. He has put in the London Press very
large and impressive advertisements telling people that
there is going to be no cruelty and also announcing that
he is going to invite a great many people to see the ﬁrst
contest. He writes: “It is stated that artiﬁcial means
are employed to ‘ make horses buck ’ ” and he categorically
denies it.

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The Cinch Rope Shown. But I have here in my
hand a cinch rope which was actually used in the Rodeo
contests in 1924. This rope is used in such a way as to
cause profound irritation to very sensitive parts of a horse
and is responsible for the so-called “ wildness ” and
“ madness ” of so—called “ outlaw and wild horses,” and
I note that Mr. Austin says nothing in his advertisement
about the cinch rope.

Mr. Tex Austin Invited to the Meeting. We of the
Animal Defence Society are always anxious to be fair to
opponents. Consequently a letter was sent on May 25th
to Mr. Tex Austin, and this is the letter :————

The Animal Defence Society,
Tex Austin, Esq. 15, St. James ’s Place, S.VV.1-
Savoy Hotel, Strand, VV.C.2. 25th May, 1934.

Dear Sir,

 

As you have no doubt seen. by announcements in the Press, We
are arranging a public Protest Meeting against Rodeo Performances
in this country, which will take place in the Central Hall,
Westminster, in the evening of May 3lst.

We enclose a handbill and two other publications relating to
the meeting.

We have noted the contents of your advertisement entitled “ The
Rodeo: The Real Truth!” which appeared in The Times of May 23rd-

.As this Society is always willing to give opponents and those who
hold divergent views an opportunity of making a statement, we
are willing to give you facilities for making a ten minutes’ speech
from our platform, should you desire to do so.

If you wish to avail yourself of this offer, we shall be obliged
if you will let us know by return of post.

Yours faithfully,
L. LIND-AF—HAGEBY, NINA HAMILTON AND BRANDON,
Hon. Director. President.

No answer has been received. Yesterday the Duchess
of Hamilton and I repeated our invitation by sending a
letter by hand to Mr. TeX Austin at the Savoy Hotel, and
again no answer has come. That, ladies and gentlemen, is
very signiﬁcant. We believe in being absolutely fair to
opponents and we do feel that this question, involving both
the Rodeo and ﬁlms showing staged “ ﬁghts to the death ’ ’
between animals, is one of immense public importance and
that it is high time that this kind of sensationalism and
this tide of mental degradation should be stopped. I now
call on the Duchess of Hamilton to address you.

Reminding the Audience of the Action of the Animal
Defence Society in 1924.—-Her Grace The Duchess of
Hamilton: Madam Chairman, Ladies and Gentlemen, in
arranging this Meeting of Protest we of the Animal
Defence Society have continued that which was begun

136

 

 




 

ten years ago. To be precise, on June 16th, 1924, I went:
to Wembley accompanied by Miss Lind-af-Hageby and.
several other members of our Executive Council to see the
Rodeo, in order that we might know what it was like. I
think we have all had experience of horses and cattle—I.
certainly have, all my life. On our return we wrote the
following letter, which we sent to the Press next day:-——-

We attended the Rodeo on Monday night. We saw the
steer—wrestling, and consider the practice wholly objection-
able in the inﬂiction of pain and distress on animals,
whilst the only justiﬁcation oﬂercd is the attempt to amuse
the public. Two steers had their horns broken and clearly
suﬁ‘ered pain. Nobody with a spark of humane feeling
could enjoy the prolonged eﬂorts of a man to twist the
neck of and throw another animal which pluckily resisted
his manipulations. It was certainly not an eschibition ﬁt
for the amusement of the public, and if such be allowed
our attempts to teach young people pity for animals will
be severely handicapped. The public should know that
a steer is only brought down by a series of painful manipu~
lations to the head and neck which, if they were carried
out in a public highway in the ordinary handling of cattle
in this country, would be generally condemned as acts of
cruelty.

We followed up this letter with further action. At that
performance I was particularly impressed by the terror
of the animals. When the steer was let out of the enclo—
sure it dashed itself against the barricade at the side, its
one object seemed to me to be to run away from its human
pursuers. Another thing also struck me. When the little
—it was not big—steer came out with a man mounted on
it, it was already foaming at the mouth. Now, that does
not happen to cattle if they are comfortable and I know
that with this rope (pointing to the Cinch rope) tied round
the sensitive part of any animal, the quietest horse or pony
will be maddened. The same applies to steers. The
American Humane Societies with one accord condemn
Rodeo, and though we are told that the Rodeo performances
are to be modiﬁed this year, Rodeo in its very essence
implies the use of 'violence and force.

We are told by the peeple who are responsible for it
that there is going to be “ nothing cruel.” Now, people’s
ideas of cruelty vary tremendously. In all my life, though
I have been in slaughterhouses and vivisection laboratories
and various other places, I have never yet met men or

137

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

women who 01011 that they a1e c1uel or that What the)
approve of is cruel One is leminded of those weight)
W01ds: ‘ ~ 1 1

Compound fo1 sins they (no 1110l1116d to,
B1/ (101111111119 those they 1111116 110 111111d to.’

\\ e are alWays told that the other man is cruel! People
who commit one form of “ cruelty ” say “ Why don’t you
attack slaughterhouses ? ” 01 Whatever it is that they are
not interested 111. The people Who are habitually engaged
in organising exhibitions like the Rodeo are not exactly the
people whOse opinion one would take in regard to cruelty.
One does not feel that such opinion Would be weith any—
thing. I have very strong ideas about What is sport and
What is not, and I think the essential idea of sport is that
the chances must be equal for both sides and that both sides
go in for it with their willing consent. There aie peoph
Who say that boxing 1s a b1uta1 sp01t. I disagree. I happen
to have three esons oI mv own who are boxers, and I have
natuially, as then 1n0the1, witnessed their contests, and I

say thev are matched as equally as possible, they give .thei1

willing consent,- and thereIOIe boxing is not the brutal
sport that it is w hen an animal that cannot give its consent
is fo1oed to- ﬁght

F01 Rodeo to take place in England, ﬁrst of all, those.
animals must submit to a long sea voyage. Will anyone
among you tell me that those animals enjoy that sea
voyage ? (Clies oI “ No. ”) I should not believe you if
you did Then when they arrive here they are forced to
Iace the horrors of Rodeo, and with what object? (A
voice: “I Money. ”) Well, I think there is no doubt about
that But I would like you to note what one of the most
prominent promoters said the other day. He said that
English peeple who eat beef have got no right to object.
to Rodeo. New, personally, I do not eat beef, or other
meat, but if I did eat beef I would eat British beef; and
any aigument defending Rodeo applicable to conditions in
the \Vild West has no bearing 011 conditions in this country
We do not Want Wild West methods of driving cattle unde1
the plea of British beeI- eating, and thOSe Who wish for a
1evival of British agiiculture Will, I am sure, agree With
me. It is bad from every point OI vieW—the Spiritual, the
moral, and even Irom the physical points of vieW. The
ﬂesh from cattle that have been tormented and over-driven
is not ﬁt Iei Iconsumption as food.

I ﬁnd that them is somebody else who has blessed the
London Rodeos: Acc01 ding to a newspaper Lord Lonsdale

138

 




 

has expressed approval of Rodeo. He does say—-~I am glad
to notee—that he disapproves of the steer-roping; but, he
says, even in regard to that, people only object because
they. do not understand; and as to the other objectionable
features Lord Lonsdale also says they do not understand.
Well, I think that what is the matter with the noble Lord
is that he does not understand himself I

' I would like to draw your attention for the moment to
the effect of such a thing as Rodeo on the young people of
this country. I happen to know a case which I have no
doubt was not isolated, of a young boy in 1924 who was
taken-by his relatives to see Rodeo. What was the result?
He did notapprove of Rodeo, he thought it was a “ beastly
business, ” yet the effect of seeing this galloping after cattle
was that when he got back to his own home and went out
on his pony and saw some cows in a ﬁeld, away he went
galloping after them. As you may well imagine, the
British farmer was very indignant, quite rightly. I do not
think that boy ever thought of doing it again.

Mr. Amos, who should have been here to-day and much
regrets that he is unable to come, has written to say that
two attempts were made to foist Rodeo upon England as
a national sport—(Cries of “ Oh! ” and “ Never! ”)——the
ﬁrst in November, 1924., by a Syndicate With a capital of
£8,000 to £10,000. That was defeated. A second attempt
was made in March, 1925, with a capital of £10,000. That
was also defeated. The Headquarters were to have been
at Leeds, and it went so far that a farm was actually
bought there.

The Bull Fight: Cousin of Rodeo.-——Now I have seen,
together with Miss Lind—af—Hageby, the Spanish bull-fight
in Madrid. We have seen other bull-ﬁghts, so-called
“bloodless ” bull-ﬁghts, in which the terrorising of the
animal is little less cruel than the mis d mort of the
Spanish bull-ﬁght. As Miss Lind-af—Hageby has told you,
these things are cousins to the Rodeo, and they are all
objectionable. The argument also brought forward by the
chief promoter that the Rodeo is no more cruel than the
Grand National or than hunting and shooting, etc, does

not touch the point at all. If it be true, then why introduce
(mother cruelty .9

Films which should Not have been Passed for
Exhibition—In a letter to The Times of May 26th, Sir
Robert Gower conveys a message from Mr. Edward Shortt,
K.C., of the British Board of Film Censors, assuring us that
the policy of the Board is to refuse to pass any ﬁlm which

139

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

depicts the, sufferings of animals or appears to have been
jzproduced under conditions involving such suffering. That
message savours of mockery to those who have seen some
«of the recent ﬁlms. NOW, there is something undoubtedly
"wrong with the present censorship of ﬁlms in this country.
El am not going into the make-up of the Board
‘of Censors, but I do say this, that ﬁlms such as those
which I have seen myself in London should never have
been passed for exhibition. It is wrong that a ﬁlm depict-
ing a bull-ﬁght, for instance, shOuld be allowed to be shown
in the cinema to the public, whereas the bull-ﬁght itself——
we are thankful to say—is not allowed in this country. I11
other words, the ﬁlm at the present moment is giving a
protection to scenes of cruelty which in their actual happen-
ing would never be allowed. Miss Lind-af-Hageby has
touched on these scenes, and I would like to remind you
that the phrase “ Nature red in tooth and claw ” is, after
:all, purely a'ﬁgment of man ’s invention. There is nothing
in wild life as blood-thirsty as man himself !

I believe in the future of ﬁlms; I go to them myself for
a change of thought, for rest and refreshment; but this
sort of ﬁlms remind one of the story of the old woman
who was taken up for being drunk in Birmingham; they
asked her why she got drunk and she said: “ Well, its
the quickest way to get out of Birmingham.” The ﬁlms
511 ave the function of taking people quickly into other trains
of thought. But what do this kind of ﬁlms do? They open
the trapdoor to the sewers. We do not want to live in
the sewers. What we want the ﬁlms to do is to open the.
windows, open the skylights, so that we may get into some-
thing higher, so that we may learn something. We ﬁnd
great relief when we turn to the ﬁlms depicting Nature
undisturbed, where we see animals in their natural life,
neither forced to kill each other nor killed by man. Here
I would ask you to remember the wonderful, strengthening
eifect that their serene simplicity has upon the soul of man.
The greatest example of all was given us by Christ when
He went into the Wilderness and was with the wild beasts
to gain strength for His great Temptation. We need
ﬁlms to depict life that means something. I had the
pleasure of seeing such a ﬁlm as that myself this morning
in Wings over Everest. The glory of that ﬁlm is that no
living thing was hurt by it, that history was made,
unknown tracts were explored, the ' utmost danger was
faced by willing participants. Man’s superiority over the
animals does not consist in his power to torment them
and terrorise them.

140




I am not superior if I take a little child and hurt it,
or if I take a dog and kick it. There was a case the other
day, a terrible case—there has been a great increase of
cruelty lately—and I attribute it largely to those scenes
of violence put before people. A man kicked a dog to
death. After the ﬁrst Rodeo in 1924——two years after—
wards, in 1926—there was a case of two boys who mutilated
17 littlecalves, and not very long ago there were cases
of both boys and girls who maimed sheep. Now, all that
cannot be dissociated from the harmful sight of brutalities,
either in actuality or in ﬁlms. ' '

This is a question that should be particularly taken up
by the Church, by the leaders of Religion, and by. teachers.
Man is only superior according to his sense of honour,
his 'kindliness, his self-sacriﬁce. We warmly welcome
friendly visits from those over the sea, but we ask them
to bring us something better than we have a.lready———not
something worse.

And, ﬁnally, I would remind you how much man’s
future, his own evolution, is bound up with the way in
which he treats the animals. The stronger he is, the
more tender will he be to all who are weak. , The very
word “civilisation ” itself means being civil. There
is no point in only being civil to the maniwho can hit
you over the head. It is being civil to, those who are
weaker than yourself, and, therefore, it is not, only a
question of humanity to animals, but a question. for
humanity itself.

The Chairman: The last speaker forgot to tell you
that it was her eldest son, the Marquis of. Clydesdale, who
ﬂew over Everest and whose great achievement was
recorded in that ﬁlm_ I have now much pleasure. in calling
on Commander Cather.

The Board of Film Censors - Ineffective.—
Commander J. L. Cather, RN: The Board of Film
Censors have told us repeatedly that they are governed by
the principle of excluding from the screen ﬁlms which have
apparent cruelty in them or which can app-earito contain
cruelty even though that cruelty is faked. ,. The Board
of Film Censors, in its present form, is ineffective in
keeping from the screen ﬁlms which contain a large
amount of objectionable matter, and its ineffectiveness is
largely due to the fact that it is not a body having
statutory powers, although many people suppose it to be
so. I think when we go to the ﬁlms and see the certiﬁcate

141

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of the Board of - Film Censors thrown upon the screen,
the majority of people think that that certiﬁcate is given
by somebody who is responsible to the Government,
which is not the case The only people who have any
1eal and ﬁnal control under our present system unde1
the Cinematograph Act and under the Statutory Orders
appertaining to that Act, are Local Authorities, who are
given the power of. licensing ﬁlms or who delegate that
power to other bodies, in many cases to the Licensing
Justices, sometimes to Watch Committees, and in some
cases there are delegations from the County Council to
Borough Councils who, in turn, make their own arrange—
ments, The “way in which that certiﬁcate, the certiﬁcate
of the Board of Film Censors, becomes effective, and the
only way "in which it becomes effective, is this, that those
Licensing Authorities draw up their own Schedule of the
terms under which they will allow places of entertain—
ment to be licensed for the exhibition of cinematograph
ﬁlms. So that the ﬁnal Authority is the Local Authority
and not the Board of Film Censors. The Board of Film
Censors is'further handicapped, apparently, by the fact
that, although it can say that it will only give a certiﬁcate
if those who lodge the ﬁlm with it agree to cut any part
of the ﬁlm which the Board may consider necessary—end,
in that connection, we are told that thousands and
thousands of feet have been cut~~~~yet they feel that it is
not within their powers to reject the whole of a ﬁlm 011
the ground that some part of it is capable of the inter—
pretation of cruelty. So that it is obviously necessary
that we should have some deﬁnite arrangement recognised
by the Governmentwnot only half recognised by the
Government as it is at present, but direct responsibility
to the Government for seeing that these ﬁlms are not
allowed to be presented to our country

The Chairman: I have now much pleasure in calling
upon Mr. Shaw Desmond to address you. Mr. Hannen
Swaffer has connnented upon the manliness of the people
on this platform, because the defenders of Rodeo have
made a statement that it is unmanly people or unwomanly
people who object to it. Mr. Hannen Swaffer pointed out
some of the valiant pursuits of Mr. Shaw Desmond, not
only on the plane literary but on the plane'physical.

Mr. Shaw .l)esmond: I am going to conﬁne myself
entirely to the question of “ ﬁghts to the death ” ﬁlms.
With regard to the Rodeo, I will carry out an Irishman ’s
promise and if Mr. Tex Austin will invite me to see the

142

 




 

Rodeo I will give Mr. Tex Austin my word, as a man, I
hope, of honour, that if I ﬁnd the Rodeo is free from.
cruelty I will write that in the newspapers.

Now, with regard to “ ﬁghts to the death ” ﬁlms, I”.
can speak perhaps fairly pertinently upon them, not only
because I have just returned from doing 7,000 miles
through Africa, Central and East, and I have had the lions
leaping round my motOr-car, but because I have beaten
all records in big-game hunting on that Continent. As
I told you, I walked or rode 7 ,000 miles; I crossed the
Kalahari Desert, I went right up the whole of the East
Coast, I lived with Zulus at N’goma, in Northern
Zululand, where I taught them ju-jitsu, and during the
whole of that time the toll of my slaughter was one large
green grasshopper on the Ghost B’Iountain of Rider
Haggard. '

Now, ladies and gentlemen, I want to say one or two
things about the Film Industry in Hollywood. I have
some American friends here and they will check me very
quickly if I make any mistake. I have lived in San
Monica, I have lived in Hollywood, and I. have been
brought intimately into connection with the Film Industry
on many sides, and I have received myself actually £1,000
for writing a ﬁlm. Therefore I know a little about ﬁlms
and ﬁlming. We want to divorce our minds from
sentimentality. First of all, wild animals in their natural
habitats actually do not ﬁght as a rule. Fighting between.
them is exceedingly rare; the only cruelty is the cruelty
of Nature Where an animal makes its kill, usually after
sundown—~—carnivora are nocturnalwand kills its prey
pretty quickly and makes its repast. In regard to wild—
animal ﬁlms: whilst I do not profess intimate knowledge,
I am going to make the following statements and invite
contradiction from the Film Industry. First of all, as
has been pointed out perfectly correctly, to get such a
coincidence as a number of wild animals of different species
at a certain spot at a certain moment ”when there are.
perhaps, eight or ten projectors focusSed upon them and.
a- spotlight, would be almost impossible. - -

Films Made in Mexico.-—-—ln the second place I have
no doubt whatever that there was cruelty in the ﬁlms
which were made in Mexico (I know the Mexicans pretty
well; there are no humane laws in Mexico-let me tell
you, nor in any of the Spanish or South American.
countries are there any such laws that I knowof). They
make those ﬁlms on the other side of the-Mexican border

143

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

  
 
  
 
 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

because there is no possible means of checking cruelty
there. I do not say for a moment that all animal ﬁlms
involve cruelty; I do not believe they do; they use wire
netting; they use various methods of avoiding direct
cruelty. But there are some ﬁlms which can only be
made by brutality of an extreme description. If I am
wrong in my statement I want the Film Industry, and
particularly the American representatives, to deny the
following, what I believe to be facts: First of all, that
electric wires are constantly used in order to make lions,
and the great carnivora, roar; secondly, that wires are
used at times on the edge of precipices in order to trip
horses and other animals and send them hurtling 40-0 or
.500 feet below, not to be killed, because death is nothing
——--—I have seen death in all its forms—but something far
worse than death (which is only a release to something
higher and much better for all of us), to leave them half
crippled before they can be despatched.

 

Comparing Film and Sports Cruelties. Let me
say in passing that there is nothing in the Film Industry
more brutal than the modern battue, pheasant shooting,
by noble sportsmen. On the other hand—I want to be
fair and not h.ypocritical—~—I can get 40 or 50 men or
women to come on the platform who will take a
stand foranimals ill-treated in ﬁlms but who will think
nothing of hunting a fox to its death. I am not a crank,
I am not a vegetarian; I believe that shooting animals for
food can be justiﬁed if it is done absolutely painlessly
and accurately, but I do say this, that no more cruel sport
in the world exists than that of fox hunting, which I, as
an Irishman, know very well.

One other thing about the making of these ﬁlms. In
some of the scenes that are depicted of hippopotami—
and I have seena good many of them myself and been
close to them in the Northern Zambesi—some of these
animals have been sent to their death and have been
maimed over precipices which you see in the ﬁlms. I
myself cannot see how those ﬁlms can be faked, but I
come to something which I regard as a basic factor, and
more important than some of the more superﬁcial and
objective factors to which previous speakers have alluded.
I refer to the extraordinary inﬂuence of the blood ﬁlms,
not only upon the child but upon the adult. As to ﬁlms
where the animals themselves are obviously in torture 3.
more barbarous form of wickedness has never been put
upon the screen, or one having an uglier effect upon a

144

   

 

 




 

 

child, than that of a monkey ﬁghting three giant land
crabs. That could only be matched in the days of old
Rome. Those who control the ﬁlms control the mind of
the nation.

If you can control these ﬁlms you control the minds of
millions. Even the newspaper has not a greater power
than the screen. I have known—or have heard; I do
not know this directly—of children waking up in the
night and screaming with terror after seeing some of these
blood ﬁlms. Now, what is behind these blood ﬁlms“?
Let me tell you. I have known gangsters in Chicago,
I have seen the whole of that business from beginning to
end. There are three kinds: hi—jackers, bootleggers, and
alley rats. But there is no alley rat more contemptible
than the director of a Film Corporation who, in order to
put an extra ﬁve per cent. of blood money on the dividends
of his Corporation, is prepared to give pain and torture
to animals and to mutilate the minds of thousands of
children and grown-ups.

I was in Spain the other day. I went through Granada,
and I told those people what I thought of their bull.—
ﬁghting, the people who drive blinded horses to be dis—
embowelled on the horns of the bull. I have a great
belief in Englandmeven although I am an Irishman——
which is very good of me—-and I do not believe they will
ever bring bullﬁghting into England, I do not believe
that Englishmen will tolerate it. I am not going to say
the Englishman is a little tin god; he has his faults; but
taking them all in all he and the Scotsman are the two
best Europeans I know.

The Chairman: I now call on a great ﬁghter for the
cause of women and humanity, Mrs. Arncliffe Sennett
(founder and director of the Northern Men’s Federation
for Women’s Suffrage).

Mrs. Arncliffe Sennett: It seems to me that money
has got into the marrow of men’s bones, that their god
is the Golden Calf. Time was when British people used
to thank God most heartily that they were not as other
men, and I am beginning to think now that we have
to hope to God that we are no worse. If these horrors
are allowed to go on unchecked in this country amidst
this great Imperial people it seems to me we are
degenerating. Now we have made a great cry of the
Englishman’s sense of fair play and his love of clean
sport, but we read that this Rodeo business has been
brought to England under the auspices of the National

145

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Sporting Club and they say that they are going to put
down £80,000 before the show commences (A voice :
I hope they will lose it.) If they put down £80,000 before-
the show commences they will expect to get a pretty
big proﬁt on the deal; they will expect to make, perhaps,
20 times £80,000, out of cruelty to animals, and they are-
aided and abetted by the Government, because the-
Government will take its share. It will take its quota
by taxing the seats. Therefore this is a windfall for the
Government, and that is why the Government have done
nothing to stop it. I am sick to death of English
Governments. I want to stir up everybody in this hall ,
to realise that they are part and parcel of the constitution
of this great country. I have for 12 years fought hard
for the women ’s vote and I do not mind‘confessing to you
now that I have been to prison four times for the women’s
vote, and if I were younger and stronger I would go to,
prison 50 times for the cause of the animals.

The Power of Women.——I want every woman in this-
audience to realise that she has the power in her hands-
Before we had the vote we had all the responsibility and;
no authority, but now every woman in this hall has equal.
authority with men, and I think it is time that the women
of this country woke up to that which has been fought
for and given to them—many of them without putting
up a ﬁnger to help. Now I will tell you What to do. The
Last speaker, Mr. Shaw Desmond, spoke of Members of
Parliament. Do not bother yourselves a bit with Members
of Parliament. They a1e a mechanical majority of docile
delegates who have to follow the \Vhips into the Lobbies
where their leaders tell them to go.

Now, we have three great Parties in the State, and I
do want you to listen most carefully to this, because
people are not using their votes, and women particularly,
as they might do bWe have the Conservative Party, the
Liberal Party and the Labour Party and we are having
a lot of other parties all dressed up in yellow, pin,k blue
and black shirts. Those Parties have not come into power
yet, but at the next Election, which is not very far off,
they will come to you for your vote. Don’t bother about
the Parties, they are all alike, they promise everything. (A
voice: They are all job hunters.) You have got to say
to your leader, if you are a Conservative: “ Mr. Baldwin,
put this abolition of cruelty to animals on your platform.”
You haVe to say that to Mr. Baldwin or the man who
follows him and to all those peOple who follow the Liberal

146

 




 

Leader—I do not know who he iswand if you are .a
Socialist you have to say: “ Will Mr. Ramsay MacDonald
put animal protection on his programme? ”——-“ No ”—
“ then you don’t get my vote.” Say that to all of them and
do not let them bluff you with India and Tariff Reforms
and all those other questions. With all those questions
you never yet came to a domestic reform where they did
not snap their ﬁngers in your faces. Is it to be supposed
that the Home Secretary will refuse a deputation of 500
of the most distinguished people in England? If you
brought up the bankers of London, the bankers of the
City, all the great ﬁnanciers, all the great speculators who
want to trade with Russia, if you brought up the Trade
Unions, the miners, or the mine owners, they would bow
down to them. Why? Because there is money in it. We
come to those who rule this country and tell them that
these things are making for the corruption of the com—
munity and they snap their ﬁngers at us. Now there is
something else I want you to do. I want you to sit down
and write to the Premier and. say that you are going to
make the protection. of animals a consideration for your
vote, that you are disgusted with the way they have
treated this Rodeo and, unless they take it up, you will
not only use your vote against them. but will also persuade
everybody'else to do the same.

Animal Psychology.-—-—The Chairman: Ladies and
Gentlemen, I now call on Mr. Morewood Dowsett, the
distinguished author of H 010 Animals Live, The Spanish
Bull-Ring, and other books,

Mr. Morewood Dowsett: It is connnon knowledge that
all the world looks to England, for the example she sets
in the animal. kingdom, or in what she permits in animal
life—and I think you will all agree that this places a
great responsibility upon us.

What are our obligations to the animal world? And
particularly to domestic animals, which are used in the
Rodeo. There is no call upon man to yield up his own
place in the world of creation to any species of animals.
But his problem should be, how he can beneﬁt these so-
called lower creatures without depriving himself of his
own just rights. Only a fuller knowledge of animal
psychology, based on a close observation of animal habits
and customs, will enable us to arrive at the happy medium
of treatment to be accorded to the various species com-
posing the animal kingdom. We humans have to share
the world with the representatives of the animal kingdom.

147

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

We do not want our interests to be in conﬂict With theirs-
Is there any occasion for a steer, or a horse, to be in con.-
ﬂict with man? They are both domestic animals, and
have their natural life to live, and is it kind to train
them to live in continual conﬂict with man? It behoves
man to do his best to ﬁt his animal companions for a
happy life, and the process by which he helps them to
adapt themselves may be termed training.

Much depends on the training, as well as on the
respective characters of teacher and pupil. A teacher of
animals should possess personal qualities which make him
specially suitable for the work. These should include
good temper, sympathy, a knowledge of the capacities
of his pupils, tact combined with persuasion, and per-
suasiveness without cruelty. I have ridden buck-jumpers
in the Colonies years ago—I have sat them, and I have
been thrown by them, and I profess to know something:
about them. Horses that have never been handled until
they have been driven into a stockyard, where by the
aid of a long pole a rope is put over their head and
round their neck (the lasso is used in the North-West),
and then a period of lunging and a little mouthing, 'is
all that is done before you mount them. It is natural
that some try to unseat their riders by bucking, but after
proper handling, and further education, they are quite
willing to carry a man without resentment.

The instinct of animals gives them distinct conceptions
of the nature and proximity of danger. Animals have}
memories, and are able to apply intelligently the data
they store up in them. A horse that has been used for
bucking purposes only, knows as soon as it is saddled and
mounted, and probably well spurred, that bucking is
expected of it. Like man, animals deliberate on the
expediency of a contemplated act, and weigh ultimate gain
against immediate pleasures. If they believe that nothing
but bucking is required, and punishment awaits them if
they fail to buckmthen they act according to their
training.

Human obedience and idolatry often proceed from an
inculcated religion of fear; the same is true in the case
of ill—treated animals, A sense of injustice, occasioned
by undue punishment, is a fruitful source of anger, and
would spoil the temper of an otherwise good-tempered
horse. A horse has a strong sense of personal dignity,
and love of approbation is inherent in its nature.

148

 
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
  
   
   
    
    
   
 
   

 




 

I think everyone here will agree, that even if there were
no cruelty in the performance in England, but that she
encouraged the Rodeo—it would be performed in other
countries where gross cruelty would be used.

I specially appeal to everyone here to use their inﬂuence
to prevent children from attending these performances.

I believe the intention is to try to create the desire
here for the excitement of the Rodeo, so that it may
become a yearly event, and if once established, cruelty
would soon creep in_——even if it were possible to start
Without it. Do not let this be the thin end of the wedge.
’The Rodeo management are inviting various people in
responsible positions to witness a contest before the public
opening. The names of the more inﬂuential will be
:selected, and advertised, if they pronounce the Rodeo as
free from cruelty. We are glad that they have this
opportunity, and we can only hope that they will not let
“the animals down. I appeal to the women of England,
to do all in their power to encourage only such sport as
is quite free from cruelty. We have been very generous
in allowing exhibitions from other countries, but we have
the greatest objection to cruelty being introduced into our
midst.

.One can hardly ﬁnd words strong enough to condemn
the staged ﬁghts between animals. The most revolting,
the least defensible, is the infuriation of animals goaded
to ﬁght for man’s diversion.

It is useless our hoping the Rodeo will not be repeated
in the future, unless we bring our thoughts, or wishes.
into action. It is decision, followed by action, that is
necessary for success. I appeal to everyone here to use
their utmost inﬂuence to dissuade others from visiting the
Rodeo. I also appeal to the Press—who so liberally
reported the variOus cruelties in 1924——to let this Protest
go forth without delay, for I feel it will be instantly and
liberally responded to.

The Chairman: I call on Mr. Jeffrey Williams, the
Founder of the Pit Ponies Protection League.

Boycotting the Rodeo.——Mr. Jeffrey Williams: To
me any form of Rodeo is an abomination. It seems to me
that after the magniﬁcent exhibition of support by the
Press in this country of the demand made by the Humani-
tarian Societies that the Rodeo should not enter this
country, and that everything should be done to prevent
the cruel acts that took place, the brutal things that took

149

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

place in 1924, after getting a Bill through the House of
Commons, we must concede that the new Act, so far as.
it goes, is a sound one. I stake my own reputation
as a humanitarian when I make that statement, after
seeing both Houses of Parliament respond so generously
to the demands of the many humanitarians and giving
exceptional facilities, unprecedented facilities, for the
passing of this Bill. In view of those facts, in View
also of the magniﬁcent support which has been given
to the Societies represented on this platform throughout
the country, and in view of the real and wholehearted
support given by the 500 representative and distinguished
people who signed the Rodgo Protest Committee’s appeal,
I ask you, is it not sheer impudence on the part of
Mr. Tex Austin and his friends from America to come
here and give us a Rodeo? You do not know what
efforts have been made on the part of the promoters
of the Bill to ﬁght the opposition in the House of
Commons and in the House of Lords. I myself saw the
supporters and tried to urge amendments from our side
to counteract the amendments which were put forward in
the names of the various Horse Societies and other
interested people. There was plenty of time when the
Bill was in the House of Lords for an approach to be
made to any Member of the House of Lords, and Lord
Balfour of Burleigh was prepared to meet anyone. I saw
him twice and offered two amendments myself,

The Rodeo should be boycotted. In face of all you have heard
this evening, especially if you believe the Bill is spurious, you
have to boycott that exhibition. In regard to the ﬁlms I want to
say this: I appreciate the fact that there is a change of attitude
apparently on the part of the Board of Film Censors, due to the
rising tide of feeling against these brutal and cruel ﬁlms. We have
to admit that fact. I personally welcome this change of attitude:
I welcome what I regard as a concession on the part of the Board.
Whether you think the concession good or satisfactory or not is a
matter for you. The fact is that the Board of Film Censors is
“ feeling a draught,” to put it in crude language. I want to say
this: If the Board of Film Censors want us, as humanitarians, to
believe that they are sincere they will contract out their liability
in regard to all animal ﬁlms to a Committee on which are people
like ourselves on this platform. Are they prepared to be
honest and contract out the censoring of ﬁlms to an independent
body outside the trade? If they are not prepared to do that then
I cannot accept any assurance from the Board of Film Censors.
I hope certain Bills will be passed to make impossible the exhibition
of these ﬁlms. Meanwhile, I hope the Board of Film Censors will
do something really worth while, otherwise, if what I hear is true,
We shall have municipal ﬁghts up and down the country in the
various big towns and we shall have to go into municipal contests
and ask the municipalities, who have power to censor ﬁlms, to use

150

 




 

their power to the full. You will ﬁnd that if we do that thoroughly
and sincerely, those of us who can stir up municipal feeling in this
matter, there will be certain towns and cities in this country where
these cruel ﬁlms can never be seen. I hope action will be taken
along those lines by humanitarians up and down the country.

The Duchess of Hamilton moved the ﬁrst Resolution,
which was seconded by the Rev. Lionel Lewis.
Commander Cather moved the second Resolution, which
was seconded by Mr. Shaw Desmond. The third
Resolution was moved by Mr. Morewood Dowsett and
seconded by the Rev. F. C. Baker.

The ﬁrst Resolution was carried unanimously. The
second was carried with one dissentient.‘ The third was
carried unanimously amidst great applause.

The Chairman: Ladies and Gentlemen, I thank you
warmly. We have had a very representative platform
of diﬁerent political views. We will dispense with votes
of thanks. I think you will agree to that. All of us
on this platform want to serve and help animals and if
we can serve in any little way, that is the only thanks
we want. There are publications as you go out, and
anyone wanting further information can apply to the
Animal Defence Society, 15, St. James ’s Place, St. James ’s
Street. .

Press Reports.—-The meeting was well noticed in the
Press. Reports appeared in The Times, the Manchester
Guardian, the News Chronicle, the Daily Herald, the Star,
the Bayswater Chronicle, the South Western Star, etc.

The Times published extracts from the Resolutions
passed and recorded that a message of sympathy and
regret for absence had been received from the Archbishop
of Canterbury. The News Chronicle headed its notice
with “ No Answer to Invitation to Mr. Tex Austin,” and
reported Miss Lind-af—Hageby’s declaration that the
Government, in allowing Rodeo Performances to take place
in London, had acted in opposition to humane and
enlightened public feeling. Mrs. Arncliffe Sennett’s state—
ment that she went to prison four times for women’s
suffrage and that she would go to prison ﬁfty times for
the abolition of cruelty to animals, was also noted. The
Manchester Guardian published a long report from which
we quote the following :—

The audience that ﬁlled the ﬂoor of Central Hall, Westminster,
to-night for the protest meeting organised by the Animal Defence
Society against rodeo performances and animal “ ﬁghts to the
death ” ﬁlms was impressive in its quality and had none of the

extravagance that mars too many protesting meetings of animal-
lovers, but it was vigorous in its applause.

151

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The Daily Herald wrote of the vigorous protests against
Rodeo and Jungle ﬁlms of animals “ ﬁghting to the
death,” and also pointed out that Mr. Tex Austin,
organiser of Rodeo, had not replied to an invitation to be
present at the meeting. Miss Lind-af-Hageby’s statement
that Rodeo is “ a cousin of the Spanish bull-ﬁght ” was
noted.

Resolutions Sent to Government Departments.—
The three Resolutions passed at the Protest Meeting were
sent to the Prime Minister and the Home Secretary. The
Resolutions relating to cruelty in ﬁlm production were
also sent to the Chairman of the London County Council,
and to the Chairman of the Consultative Committee on
Cinema Censorship at the Home Ofﬁce. The Rodeo
Resolutions were sent to the Minister of Labour. All
were duly acknowledged. The Chairman of the Film
Censorship Consultative Committee of the Home Ofﬁce
wrote that the Resolutions would be laid before the-
Committee at the ﬁrst opportunity.

The Rodeo Act and Tolerance of Rodeo Per-
formances.—The Bill introduced in the House of
Commons by Sir Robert Gower made progress in the
House Whilst—at the same time—active preparations were
made for the holding of a “ Great ” Rodeo in London.

It was a curious situation. A large section of the public
believed that the effect of the Bill would be the prohibition
of Rodeo performances in Britain, The Bill received the
Royal Assent on May 17th. Many humanitarians were
surprised that the British Government, in spite of the
strong feeling expressed against Rodeo in and outside
Parliament, permitted the Rodeo performers to come
to England and to make deﬁant advertisement of their

intentions.
THE RODEO ACT.
Protection of Animals Act, 1934.

[24 E9, 25 GEO. 5.] [CH. 21.] A1). 1934’
An Act to provide further protection to certain animals. —
[17th May, 1934.]
BE it enacted by the King's most Excellent Majesty, by and with the
advice and consent of the Lords Spiritual and Temporal, and Commons,
in this present Parliament assembled, and by the authority of the same, as
follows:--— Prohibition of

1.——(1) No person shall promote, or cause or knowingly 32$; ”bl“:

permit to take place any public performance which includes any performances,
episode consisting of or involving— 311d exhibitions
, . . , With animals.
(a) throvvlng or casting, With ropes or other appliances,
any unbroken horse or untrained bull; or

152

 




 

(b) wrestling, ﬁghting, or struggling with any untrained

bull; or

(c) riding, or attempting to ride, any horse or bull which

by the use of any appliance or treatment involving
cruelty is, or has been, stimulated with the intention
of making it buck during the performance;
and no person shall in any public performance take part in any
such episode as aforesaid.

(2) For the pur oses of proceedings under paragraph (a)
or paragraph (b) ofp the preceding subsection, if an animal
appears or is represented to spectators to be unbroken or
untrained it shall lie on the defendant to prove that the
animal is in fact broken or trained.

In proceedings under paragraph (c) of the said subsection
in respect of the use of any such appliance or treatment as is
therein mentioned upon a horse before or during a performance,
it shall be a defence for the defendant to prove that he did
not know, and could not reasonably be expected to know, that
the appliance or treatment was to be or was used. 1

(3) In this section— C.

the expressions “ horse " and ” bull ‘5 have, respectively,
the same meanings as in the Protection of Animals
Act, 1911;
the expression “ public performance ” does not include
a performance presented to the public by means of
the cinematograph. 2 E? 3 G 1
(4) In the application of this section to Scotland——- 0.14. w' "
the expression “horse ” has the same meaning as in
the Protection of Animals (Scotland) Act, 1912;
and
the expression “ bull ” means ox as deﬁned in that Act.

 

E9” 2 Geo. 7'.

q

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2.——If any person contravenes any of the provisions of Penalties-
the foregoing section, he shall be liable upon summary cone
viction to a ﬁne not exceeding one hundred pounds, or, alter!
natively, or in addition thereto, to be imprisoned for any term
not exceeding three months.

3,—(1) This Act may be cited as the Protection of Animals Act, Short title
1934. (2) This Act shall not extend to Northern Ireland. and extent.
Deﬁance of People who Want to “ Suppress
Manliness.”——At a luncheon party arranged on May 11th
to boost the forthcoming rodeo at the White City, Mr. Tex
Austin, the organiser, said that opposition to rodeo was
“ contrary to everything he had been told about British
precedent.” In his country “ civilisation followed beef.”
He made comparison between horses injured in the Grand
National and animals badly injured in the 1924 London
Rodeo. Other supporters of the Rodeo spoke of the
opposition as attempts to “ strangle sport,” and to “ sup-
press manliness.”—-—Daily Express, May 12th, 1934,
The Daily Mail of May 16th reported :—-——

The decision to proceed with the arrangements to stage Tex
Austin’s world championship rodeo at the White City Stadium,
Shepherd’s Bush, W., next month was made yesterday at a conference
between Tex Austin and ofﬁcials of the National Sporting Club,
sponsors of the cowboy spectacle.

153

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The decision has been taken in spite of the Protection of Animals
Bill, which the organisers believe to be aimed at the rodeo.

Tex Austin said to a Daily Mail reporter yzesterday —-

“ We shall hold the 1odeo as planned. The horses, cattle and
most of the contestants are travelling thousands of miles to take
part, sacriﬁcing the Calgary contests to come. There need be no
fear of cruelty, for there will be none.”

The Daily Sketch of May 18th reported a conversation
with Mr. Lionel Bettinson, of the National Sporting
Club :—

As a matte1 of fact we 1eceived permission for the rodeo
pe1to11ne1s to come to this countiy last Week and they are already

on their way,” said Mr. Lionel Bettinson, of the National Sporting
Club, who are promoting the rodeo, to the Daily Sketch yesterday.

“ The1e axe 107 pe1forme1s.All the cattle taking part in the
show are coming fiom Canada, as well as some of the horses.
The remaining horses are coming from America. We shall spend
at least £80,000 before the show is put on, and during its run
from June 9th to July 6th, about 400 people will bbe given
employment.’ ’

“ It is said,” said Mr. Tex Austin, in his suite at the
Savoy Hotel, to a representative of the Daily Mail, “ that
the double cinch used in the bronk-riding is cruel. I
deny that it is cruel.”——Daily Mail, May 15th, 1934.

Whilst reasonable people cannot deny that the Rodeo
Act marks progress and is an expression of public indig—
nation against the blatant cruelties which took place in
the 1924 London Rodeo, they must nevertheless admit that
the Act did not prevent cruelty at the 1934 Rodeo.

The
Members of the Executive Council of the Animal Defence
Society who attended the ﬁrst performance, issued the

following declaration :——-

“Whilst freely acknowledging that the ﬁrst perfor—
mance of Rodeo in 1934 presents certain unobjectionable
features and is very different from the performances
given at Wemblcy in 1924, members of the Executive
Council of the Animal Defence Society, including the
Duchess of Hamilton and Miss Lind- af- Hageby declare
that the charoe that cruelty is inherent in the sensational
events of Rodeo has been proved by the methods used to
make horses buck--i.e., the strap, or covered cinch rope
and the spurring. The statement that ‘ they use nothing
to make the horses buck ’ is absurd in view of the facts
mentioned,

“ The steer riding is an exhibition of miserable beasts
being ridden by methods which make a show of ‘ wildness.’

154

                                  

 




 

“ The Rodeo has in our view a very bad effect on
children and encourages those sentiments towards animals
which humanitarians seek to eradicate.

“ In its declaration that the Rodeo is an exhibition of
‘ Wild ’ animals the management is misleading the public.”

Not Really Wild.—-“ In the bareback bronk-riding
and in the saddled bronk-riding ‘wildness ’ and ‘ un—
manageability ’ are deliberately induced by certain
methods, such as the use of the cinch-rope, or strap, and
by spurring according. to recognised rules. According to
the rules the ‘ rider must tickle the horse with spurs,
which are covered with tape to prevent injury to the
animal.’ Anyone watching the manner of spurring who
has sympathy with animals and who is not blinded by the
lure of excitement and money prizes, can see that the
spurring is anything but ‘ tickling ’ only, and that the
horses are in a state of distress and pain. The horses
should buck ‘furiously ’ according to the standards of
the Rodeo, and it is certain that animals which can travel
quietly and stand calmly before the bronk-riding event
have things ‘ happening ’ to them before the wild bucking
commences.

“Moreover, these horses will be made to buck every
day and sometimes twice a day between June 9th and
July 6th.

“ The steers which are supposed to be wild are in reality
tame, They are made to buck by certain methods, notably
by the heavy cow bell which dangles underneath them on
a rope, and by the manner of riding. At the ﬁrst per-
formance some of the steers came out of the enclosure
with their mouths open and foam dripping. It is prob-
able that certain measures are taken in the chute to
induce this state.

“ The central events of Rodeo—-——even with the omission
of the bad features which disgraced the Rodeo in 1924*—
such 'as bronk-riding and steer-riding and the wild horse
race, are essentially inhumane, for they offend against all
ethical precepts of man’s dealing with animals. Ifreally
wild, these animals would, if treated with kindliness, soon
lose their wildness and show friendliness and conﬁdence
in men. Whatever ‘ wildness ’ resides in these horses and
these steers is meticulously preserved and nurtured by
methods which are brutal, violent and unkind. TheSe
animals are not allowed to develop feelings of friendliness
and conﬁdence, and whilst they are sufﬁciently tame and
quiet to behave like ordinary domestic animals in the

155

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

enclosure or on the journey, they are goaded again and
again to perform feats of fury and wildness in order to
produce enormous ﬁnancial gains to the promoters of
Rodeo and huge money prizes to the contestants. The
London programme for 1934 gives the information that
three of Tex Austin ’s Rodeos in Chicago cost more than
£62,500 each and that all were credited with success. The
programme also states that the prize money paid in 1934
will be the largest ever paid.”

According to the Daily Worker, Mr. Tex Austin stated
that the “ sum of £10,000 in prize money had been
deposited with a New York bank ” as a guarantee that
the prize money would be paid the cowboys and cowgirls
after the contests.

Glamour of Rodeo. Relationship to Bull-ﬁght.——Some journalists
were caught up by the glamour of the Rodeo—a glamour not
dissimilar to that produced by the Spanish bull-ﬁght. Newspaper
representatives were introduced to the cowboys and allowed to see
the outlaw horses bare their teeth, ﬂing back their ears, show the
whites of their eyes, and were duly impressed. The boys in sombrero
hats and brightly coloured shirts, who performed seemingly impossible
feats of horsemanship, were found to be very attractive. The
Daily Mail wrote of the “ Wizardqr of Rodeo,” of the 100 cowboys,
15 cowgirls, and 400 magniﬁcent horses and steers that had crossed
the Atlantic to give a ﬁrst-hand impression of cowboy life to
Britons. The cowgirls received a special mention. Bronco riding
is to them “ what motor speeding is to the city typist.” Their idea
of entertainment is a day at the Calgary Stampede. The Daily
Sketch, commenting on the agility of their somersaults, bronco-
busting and “ doing everything you ever hope to see done with a
horse,” expanded into praise of the “ delightful little wisps of
femininity ” who, after “ turning somersaults over a horse at full
gallop, apply a touch of lipstick.”

Having interviewed the cowgirls at the White City, Mr. F. A. Beau-
mont, writing in Pearson’s Weekly of June 23rd, related the following
statement made by Alice Greenhough, who was dressed in a white
hat and scarlet coat: “ I toured the bull-rings of Spain and France
last summer,” she explained, “ I used to mount the bulls in the
chutes, and held on by their horns while they charged around the
arenas. Then just before the matadors got to work, a hazer would
come out and rescue me.”

This is another side-light on the relation between the ball-ﬁght
and the Rodeo.

Rodeo Performances Did Not Run Smoothly.——
There were accidents. Earl Thode of Arizona, one of the
contestants, having ﬁnished his ride on a bronk, was
thrown against a fence and injured on June 26th. He
was taken to Hammersmith Hospital with a serious scalp
wound and concussion. Charles Thomason, of Texas, was
thrown during his steer riding contest and his ankle was
fractured. Captain Jefferson Davis Cohn, a racehorse

156

 




 

owner, reported to be a millionaire, was knocked down
and. stamped on by a steer at a performance on June 23rd.
A steer, having been driven into the ring for an exhibition
of steer branding, charged Captain Cohn, who had been
invited as a special guest by Mr. Tex Austin, and who was
standing in the arena surrounded by a group of friends
and cowboys. Captain Cohn was picked up unconscious
and taken to hospital suffering from internal injuries
and a broken collar bone. It was stated in The Sunday
Pictorial that most of the group standing round Captain
Cohn ran back out of danger, but he, seeming to be
petriﬁed, remained on the spot.

There was more trouble. The Lord’s Day Observance
Society by the middle of June threatened the promoters
of Rodeo with legal proceedings if performances were
given on Sundays. Writs were issued and claims for
penalties amounting to £300 were made. The Society had
been advised by Counsel that Sunday performances were
illegal, and viewed Sunday Rodeo performances as an
affront to Christian public opinion in the metropolis.
(One wonders if the Society saw no objection to Monday
performances?)

The Archbishop of Canterbury sent a protest to the
National Sporting Club against the holding of Rodeo
performances on Sunday. The National Sporting Club
replied that the proceeds of the Sunday performances
(expenses excepted) would go to the Hospitals, and that
six leading London Hospitals and three well-known
country Hospitals, who would beneﬁt, would all send
representatives to the Sunday performance, The hospitals
had unanimously stated that they wished the performances
to take place. The Sunday performance brought further
trouble, for only 4,000 people attended, whilst there was

room in the Stadium for 75,000.

Very disappointed, Commander E. W. B. Leake, Chairman of the
National Sporting Club, in criticising the opposition raised, said
(according to The Daily Mail of June 18th), “ the cowboys are
terribly fed up, and many of them are anxious to get home. I
shudder to think what the reaction will be in the United States
when they hear of this attitude of the so-called British sporting
public.” According to The Daily Mirror of the same date, Com-
mander Leake said (apparently with some petulance), “ We do not
want to run contrary to public opinion. We are having enough
trouble, Everything we do seems to be wrong. We seem to be
persecuted.” According to The Times, Commander Leake stated
that, owing to the small attendance, the hospitals would certainly
not beneﬁt much, if at all. “ At any rate he was going to see
that the 150 coways who had given their Sunday for the hospitals
were paid ﬁrst. They received no wages; they were having a rough
time and that was all the thanks they got.”

157

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

This Rodeo-for-charity business is the usual association
of the bull-ﬁght with charity. In France the bull-ﬁghting
ﬁnancial interests have for many years successfully cul-
tivated the pious association with hospitals, anti-tuber-
culosis funds, orphanages and other benevolent institutions.

Rodeo Financial Failure.———Already by June 19th there
were lugubrious announcements in the daily Press of ﬁnan-
cial failure. On that day we read in The Evening News,
“ The Rodeo at the White City may close on Saturday.”
Mr. George Scheine, the lawyer who hurried from NewYork
at TeX Austin’s request, told The Evening News repre-
sentative that the show was “ a ﬁnancial failure,” and
that conferences were being held to determine the exact
legal position, “ Financially,” said Mr. Scheine, “ there
is no hope of us winning but we would have liked to be
able to stay a little longer to show the British public that
we are not scared off by the summonses which have been
issued against us. If no legal obligations will ensue, I
shall advise Tex Austin to pack up and go on'Saturday.
The British public have failed to support us and we don ’t
want to stay where we are not wanted.” The losses,
according to Mr. TeX Austin, would amount to £70,000.
-——(Ei;ening Standard, June 6th.)

And The Daily Empress of June 19th emphasised the disaster in
a large headline, “ Rodeo Fails as a Big London Draw.” Its
readers were informed that the Rodeo had proved in the frank
words of its sponsors, “ a complete ﬂop.” Undeterred by opposition
in Parliament, by the mass of hostile criticism, the promoters had
invested the sum of nearly £100,000 in the venture. Mr. Tex Austin,
the producer, stated that they had not had the square deal they
expected, and that people had been told that they were guilty of
cruelty to animals, which was an absolute lie. The cowboys and
cowgirls—all renowned champions—were, according to Mr. Tex
Austin, broken-hearted at the lack of public support and they talked
of packing and of going home. Mr. Tex Austin added, “ I do not
want to squeal.” There was even talk about dangers of alienation
between Britain and the United States of America owing to cow-
boys being misunderstood in London, Mr. Scheine, the lawyer
imported, spoke of the danger of growing enmity between the two
countries which should be on terms of close friendship! There was
talk of; retaliation and of seeking redress in the Courts of Justice !

Summoned for Cruelty.—-—There were still more
disagreeable things. TeX Austin was summoned by the
R.S.P.C.A. for causing (on June 11th) a steer to be cruelly
terriﬁed and. alternatively causing a steer to be ill-treated
at the White City. .Mr. J. Richards, a Rodeo competitor,
was also summoned, it being alleged that on the same day
he had unlawfully and cruelly terriﬁed an animal, namely

158

 




 

a steer, and alternatively cruelly ill-treated it. The case
was heard at the West London Police Court. It was
alleged by the prosecution that :—

A steer was released and chased by Richards on horse-back.
Half-way across the arena he attempted to lasso it, but missed.
It made for the exit, but Richards turned it away, and, gathering
up the rope, chased the animal again.

The steer made for the stout wire fencing, crashed right through
it, and fell on its side, where it remained for some seconds.

An assistant tapped it on the quarter, and the animal struggled

to get up, but could only use its hind legs, and fell to the
ground again.
The assistant again urged it to move, and, after struggling a

little bit, it, managed to get one of its forelegs out, and went
on three legs.

. It was noticed to be bleeding from the mouth. It was driven
into a pen, and there an assistant was seen to take it by the horns
while another swilled its mouth from a pail of water.

It was observed to be lame and feeble from 3.30 until 5.20.-——
from The Star, June 30th, 1934.

According to a veterinary surgeon who gave evidence
the steer was destroyed the same day.

Mr, Tex Austin, giving evidence, said he was an
American living in New Mexico, and that the rules of
the Rodeo were against cruelty. The magistrate, Mr.
Broderick, stated that the summonses must fail because
what had happened was an “ accident.”

Retaliation.—Having returned to New York Mr. Tex
Austin gave vent to his disappointment. “ When you
send over your next Olympic Games players we will not
forget,” he is reported to have said when interviewed——
(Evening Star, Ipswich, July 19th.) “ The trouble with
the English,” he said, “ is that they ‘ worship animals.’ ”
—(Star, July 25th.) The treatment of him. in London,
he said, was “ part of the British programme of shutting
out all forms of foreign entertainment.”——~—(Da7'ly Mail,
July 25th.) He declared his loss on the London Rodeo
to have been about £40,000 and made bitter complaints
of his treatment by the British public as his troupe had
had to return” on borrowed money—«(Daily Telegraph,
July 25th.) ' “ We cowboys,” he said, “ believe that
animals were put here for a purpose and that the throwing
of a steer and hog-tying him is just as natural as eating
and sleeping, but British leaders, and especially the Press,
become ﬁnicky. ”

TWO pamphlets were issued by the Animal Defence
Society 1n connection with the campaign. Film C7 aelties:
“Staged Fights to the Death ” Between Animals and
Rodeo Performances in Britain.

159

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Many thousands of copies of these pamphlets were
circulated.

Selling the Horses.-—“ Most of the bucking broncos
and cow ponies were shipped from London yesterday, but
800 wild horses and steers are being sold to cut losses.

“ A number of the Wild horses have been bought by a
Coventry dealer, who is going to break them in for
ordinary use.”-——From the Sunday Pictorial of July 15th,,
1934.

Homes for the Rodeo Horses. About sixty of the
rodeo horses were bought by Our Dumb Friends’ League
and on the 30th October, 1934, the President of that Society
sent a letter to the. Duchess of Hamilton :—~

 

Your Grace,

You may be aware that this League has purchased the wild horses
which were brought over from Canada for the Rodeo. It had been
hoped that it would be possible to break these and dispose of them
to chosen purchasers to save the danger of killing them, but we have
been very strongly recommended by our own investigators and by
other experts that as they are all ﬁve years old or more it is
impossible to break them well enough to make them a good-class
purchase. If they are broken they would have to be sold to poor—
class tradespeople, and probably have to work very hard and have
an uncertain future. That being so, the Council of the League has
decided that they shall be mercifully destroyed.

I have been asked to write to you to enquire whether you would
be kind enough to permit us to have these horses killed in your
abattoir, and if some members of our Council might be permitted to
witness the killing, so as to report to the Council. If you can
graciously accede to this request, the League will be most grateful.
We venture to ask you this knowing your great love f0r horses
and all other animals.

Yours faithfully,
C. B. CARRYER, President.

The Model Humane Abattoir has been built to ensure
humane slaughter for animals already doomed to slaughter
for food, not for the destruction of ﬁne and healthy horses
or for any unnecessary killing of animals, therefore your
President replied to the President of Our Dumb Friends“
League as follows :—

In regard to your suggestion in your ﬁrst letter that
these horses should be slaughtered in our Model Humane
Abattoir at Letchworth, we cannot give our consent to
this. We very much disapprove of the wholesale destruc-
tion of these horses, which will give support to the Rodeo
declaration that they are wild and dangerous. If you

160

 




 

consider that they cannot be trained or used, the most
humane thing to do is to shoot them where they are, and
not subject them to the conditions of transport and travel
to an abattoir.

I would like, if possible, to see some of them myself
and to purchase two of them. I fear I have not space
for more.

I remain, Yours truly,
N. HAMILTON AND BRANDON.

After further correspondence on the subject your
President made a deﬁnite offer to take eight of the Rodeo

horses.

A special meeting of Our Dumb Friends’ League Council
was called on November 30th to discuss the disposal of
these horses. The Duchess of Hamilton sent a letter by
hand to be read to this meeting, repeating her offer to take
eight of the horses. The following Resolution was passed :—

“ That the Council of Our Dumb Friends’ League accept the
Duchess of Hamilton’s oifer as regards the eight horses, without
her paying anything, and if she would be so generous as to take
any more horses, they would be only too glad to send them over to
her, as it is considered she is the one person to whom they can hand
them, and that while accepting the Duchess’s offer with the greatest
gratitude, the Rodeo horses shall remain the registered horses of
the League.”

The offer was accepted. Eight Rodeo horses duly arrived
at the Duchess of Hamilton’s home at Ferne, near Shaftes-
bury, on December 15th escorted by Captain Burman.
They were put in a large ﬁeld with plenty of grass and
soon settled down in their new quarters. Toogood, the
head groom, was put in charge of them and by the exercise
of great understanding and patience he gained their con-
ﬁdence after‘a few weeks, so that when he came into the
ﬁeld they came to him in response to his call. After a
time they would feed out of his hand and allow him to
pat them.

Amusements.——In an article entitled On Being Amused
which appeared in Progress To-dag of April-June, 1934-,
Miss Lind-af-Hageby wrote :——-—

It is said that while we humans laugh angels smile. I feel sure
they sometimes weep over our “ pleasures.” Human laughter is
so often evoked at the expense of the discomﬁture and suﬁcering
of others that we may well say, “ Tell me what you laugh at and
I will tell you what you are.”

These reflections came to me whilst I attended the ﬁrst performance
of Rodeo in London, and heard the laughter of men and women
over the eontortions of the bucking horses, over the “ comical”
contours of the ridden steer. Amusement, entertainment—men and

161
F

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

women who are not endowed with sympathetic imagination ﬁnd it
in the baiting of animals, in the chase, in shooting harmless birds,
and in transforming wild Nature’s great ﬁelds of life into exhio
bitions of skilfully inﬂicted death.

Those who ﬁnd pleasure in games, sports, exhibitions which cause
suffering ( never mind for the moment if the suffering is endured
by human or animal victims) belong to one stage of civilisation,
and yore—if you are incapable of such enjoyment—belong to another.

What is civilisation .? It is not the great city, not industrialism
and commerce, not riches and luxuries, not mechanical invention,
not educational veneer.

Civilisation is sympathy. It is based on the gradual substitution
of moral and spiritual forces for purely brute force, on the har-
monising of the ﬂesh with the spirit enlightened. “ The law of the
survival of the ﬁttest,” said Huxley in a lecture, “ is the law of the
evolution of the brute, but the law of self-sacriﬁce is the law of .the
evolution of the man.” Here I would add that there is much self-
sacriﬁce in the so-called brute creation, and that some brutes show
more distinct signs of being civilised than some men.

I am convinced that the ﬁrst sign of grace in a human being is
the inability to associate recreation or amusement with any act
which involves the inﬂiction of suffering and death on others.
Killing for food is one thing and killing for amusement another.
The slaughterman serving the community which demands meat is
in a category very different to the sportsman who does not kill to
earn his living but for his own entertainment.

I am further convinced that the whole cause of animal protection——
moral and legislative—is kept back by the toleration of sports and
amusements which are the very antithesis of civilisation. Savagery
in high places is copied by the less exalted wholnaturally can see no
point in abstaining from that which their “ betters” practise.

Letter in The Times on the British Board of Film
Censors and Cruelty in Film Production—The
following letter appeared in The Times of May 30th,
1934 :—

“ FIGHTS TO THE DEATH.”
To the Editor of THE TIMES.
Sir,

In the issue of The Times of May 26th Sir Robert Grower
conveys a message from Mr. Edward Shortt, K.C., presi-
dent of‘ the British Board of Film Censors, assuring us
that the policy of the Board is to refuse to pass any ﬁlm
which “ depicts the suffering of animals or appears to
have been produced under conditions involving such
suffering.” The message savours of mockery to those who,
like ourselves, saw a few days ago in a London cinema, a
ﬁlm which is advertised as showing “ 100 roaring lions
in wild jungle attack,” “ 5O thundering elephants in a
mad stampede,” “ 150 savage apes with a handful of
humans at their mercy,” and as providing “ a thrill a
minute.” The public have within recent years seen six

162

 




 

ﬁlms which in their treatment of animals and in the
prominence given to bloodshed and horror contradict the
message given by Mr. Shortt.

One of these showed “ scenes of sickening cruelty,”
“ sensational pictures of Wild animals in ferocious mortal
combat, sensation being painfully enhanced by agonised
screaming of maddened beasts,” “ crocodiles, tigers, lions,
and leopards threshing in furious ﬁght.”——descriptions
given in a journal representing the cinematograph indus-
try—~and was shown in numerous cinemas in London and
the suburbs. It is good news that the ﬁlm described by
Sir Hesketh Bell in your issue of April 6th, 1934, will
not be licensed for exhibition in this country, but the
trade show of “Wild Cargo” has just taken place.
“Wild Cargo ” is a record of an expedition by Frank
Buck, who was responsible for “ Bring ’em Back Alive.”

The British Board of Film Censors is, we understand,
nominated and ﬁnanced by the ﬁlm trade. Up to the
present that Board has paid scant attention to representa-
tions made by humanitarian societies, Moreover, as Sir
Robert Grower rightly points out, the Board has no power
to prevent local authorities from showing ﬁlms which
they consider ﬁt for public exhibition, It is high time
that new standards of censorship in regard to ﬁlms should
be introduced and a different moral judgment imposed.
While bull-ﬁghts are illegal in this country, a ﬁlm was
recently shown in London in which the “ thrills ” and
pageantry of the bull-ﬁght were attractively presented.
The merits of another recent ﬁlm widely shown were
advertised as “ scenes of slaughter and ingeniOus cruelty.”
We trust that leaders of religion and education will realise
the evil inﬂuence of ﬁlms which by their appeal to
instincts of cruelty and violence excite emotions and actions
which are essentially anti-social, and which thereby retard
that progress of civilisation and peace for which in these
days we have particular occasion to pray.

Yours faithfully,

NINA HAMILTON AND BRANDON.
L. LIND-AF-HAGEBY.

The Animal Defence Society, 15, St, J ames’s Place, S.W.1,
May 26th.

Reply from the British Board of Film Censors.-——
The Resolution relating to cruelty in ﬁlm production,

163

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

passed at the protest meeting held on May 31st, having
been sent to the British Board of Film Censors, the
following reply was received :—
The British Board of Film Censors,
80-82, Wardour Street, London, W.1.
June 6th, 1934.

Miss Lind-af—Hageby,
The Animal Defence Society,
15, St. James’s Place,
St. James’s Street, S.W.1.

Madam,

I have to acknowledge your communication under date June 5th,
together with copy of resolutions passed by your meeting on
May 3lst last.

I have to inform you that my Board has, from its inception,
made a point of not certiﬁcating a ﬁlm depicting cruelty to animals
or birds, and certiﬁcates have also been refused for ﬁlms in which
there appeared to be restraint amounting to cruelty.

Having regard to these circumstances, it would be quite impossible
for us to sanction a ﬁlm showing such incidents as are included
in your resolution, and depicting ﬁghts of animals to the death.
Indeed, within the last few months, two or three ﬁlms have been
considered quite unsuitable for exhibition in this country because
they portrayed incidents such as those mentioned above. These ﬁlms
include the one referred to by Sir Hesketh Bell in his letter to
The Times on April 6th, which forms the foundation of the attack
issued by the National Council for Animals’ Welfare, a copy of
which I understand was included with your notice convening your
meeting last week. You may be further interested to hear that an
apology has been received from the above Council, copy of which
I enclose for your consideration.

Yours faithfully,

J. BROOKE WILKINSON,
Secretary.

The following reply was sent :-—

The Animal Defence and Anti-Vivisection Society,

15, St. James ’8 Place, London, S.W.1.
June 16th, 1934.
J. Brooke Wilkinson, Esq.,
Secretary,
British Board of Film Censors,

80-82, Wardour Street, W.1.
Sir,

I am in receipt of your letter of June 6th.

It is somewhat difﬁcult to accept your statement that the British
Board of Film Censors make a point of not certiﬁcating ﬁlms
depicting cruelty to animals in view of the fact that a number of
ﬁlms “ showing animals forced into ferocious combat, and other
acts of cruelty,” as stated in the Resolution passed at this Society’s
Public Meeting on May Blst, have actually been shown in recent
years. In the letter signed by the Duchess of Hamilton and myself,
which appeared in The Times on May 30th, and of which I enclose
a cutting, reference is made to some of these ﬁlms. Your Board
must be aware of the fact that the ﬁghts between animals, involving

164

 




 

terrible injuries and, in many cases, death to the combatants, are
artiﬁcially staged for the purposes of ﬁlm production, as are other
acts of violence to which we take strong objection from the humane
point of view. In this connection I beg to draw your attention to
the description of “ Nagana ”—a ﬁlm which was widely shown in
London and the suburbs—which appeared in The Cinema of
March 15th, 1933, and in which reference was made to “ scenes of
sickening cruelty.” Other objectionable ﬁlms shown in recent years
are “ Trader Horn,” “ Bring ’em Back Alive,” and “ Tarzan and
his Mate.’ ’

Experts on wild animal life know that many of the most objec~
tionable incidents in these ﬁlms are contrary to facts in nature,
and present an entirely false picture, To the opposition to such
ﬁlms on the ground of humanity must, therefore, be added the
serious objection from the educational point of view, that they
impart an erroneous View of wild life.

In view of these facts we ask that ﬁlms of the type here alluded
to shall no longer be certiﬁcated for exhibition in this country.

I wish to point out that this Society was not concerned with the
letter from the National Council for Animals’ Welfare, to which
you refer.

Yours faithfully,

L. LIND-AF-HAGEBY,
Hon. Director.

Report of British Board of Film Censors.———In
August the British Board of Film Censors issued its
Report for the year ending December 31st, 1933. This
Report devotes several pages to the subject of animal
ﬁlms and contains the following :~-—-

“ The Board feels that the subject is of such vital
importance that it can only be dealt with in a practical
manner by some form of international action. It is for
this reason that the suggestion has been accepted that a
Conference of all organisations interested either directly
or indirectly in animal life should be held to consider the
position in its entirety, and to see what can be done in the
abovedirection. The. Board is convening this Conference
at the earliest opportunity.’.’

The Board in its Report pays tribute to “ the tremen—
dous amount of voluntary effort that has been expended
in this country during the last century for the purpose of
inculcating a spirit of kindness and consideration towards
dumb animals . . _ By tradition and upbringing the vast
majority of our population are animal lovers, and the
Board is most anxious rightly to interpret this national
sentiment.

165

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Bearing these considerations in mind it was felt that it
would be inadmissible to permit on the screen incidents
which would be likely to undermine all that had been
dOne for the welfare of dumb animals. Moreover, it is
realised that it would be most unwholesome for children,
especially those of tender years, to witness acts of cruelty
on the screen, as the cumulative effect of such incidents
would undermine their moral character.”

“ Consequently,” the Report goes on to state, “ it has
always been the practice of the Board not to certiﬁcate
any ﬁlm depicting cruelty to animals.”

This statement is altogether inacceptable. Films have
been certiﬁcated and exhibited in this country in recent
years containing incidents tending to undermine all that
has been done for the welfare of animals. The moral
character of children has been deteriorated through wit-
nessing scenes of violence and cruelty to animals, which
should never have been licensed. Such ﬁlms as Trader
Horn, Bring ’em Back Alive, Nagana, Tarzan and His
Mate, contain scenes which are highly objectionable from
the humane point of view. N agana—a ﬁlm which was
widely shown in London and the suburbs in 1933—was
described in The Cinema of March 25th., 1933, as con-
taining “ scenes of sickening cruelty.”

The Report devotes considerable space to the problems
associated with the judgment of animal ﬁlms. The laud-
able sentiments expressed are not in conformity with
practical performance in the way of permitting objection-
able ﬁlms to be shown. -

An entirely different standard of understanding and
. judgment is needed. - . .

In a leading Article of August 11th, 1934, The Times
w10te of the “ silly ﬁim- ﬂam ” of the trade, and added: ——

“ ‘ Scenes of sickening cruelty,’ . ‘agonised screaming of.
maddened beasts,’ and so forth may. only mean mechanically pro-

' ~ duced noises synchronised with the antics of some wretched trained

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

beast in a studio. But the Conference may succeed in impressing
upon the Trade, ﬁrst that it is immoral and pernicious, even to
tempt the public with such baits, and secondly that, though the
animals may not be suffering all the agony that they act they may
have suffered a great deal of it in their training. There is
2110 need fo1 ﬁlms exhibiting animals in conﬂict and suffering. The}
do not increase the public knowledge of "animal life, and their
appeal is not to the more wholesome among the instincts.” ' . ‘-

" 166

 




 

On August 16th the Duchess of Hamilton sent the
following letter to the President of the Br1t1sh Board of
Film Censors :—

The Animal Defence and Anti-Vivisection Society,
15, St. James’s Place, London, S.W.1.
Dear Mr. Shortt, ~

I have just received the Report of the British Board of Film
Censors for the year ending December 31st, 1933. I have read the
Report with interest, particularly the part concerning Animal Films.
I am very glad to observe on page 18 that the Board of Film
Censors intends to convene a Conference of “ all organisations
interested either directly or indirectly in animal life.” As this is
a question to which we have given much thought and study, and in
which we are directly interested, Miss Lind-af-Hageby, the Founder
and Honorary Director of this Society, and I would like to attend.
the Conference, and we should be glad if we might have as long
notice as possible of the date on which it is to be held, as we have
a great deal of work on hand.

Yours truly,
N. HAMILTON,
President.
The Rt. Hon. Edward Shortt, P.C., K.C.,
President,
British Board of Film Censors,

80/82, Wardour Street, W.1.

Meeting the Film Censor.—-On November 12th the
Duchess of Hamilton and the Countess Beauchamp,
member of the Council of the Animal Defence Society,
met Mr, Shortt, President of the British Board of Film
Censors, on the invitation of the latter. Mr. Brooke
Wilkinson, Secretary of the British Board of Film Censors,
was also present. Stress was laid by the representatives
of your Society on the deteriorating moral effect of ﬁlms
such as Wild Cargo on the public and particularly on
children. The discussion, which lasted over an hour, dealt
with various forms of cruelty in ﬁlm production. Mr.
Brooke Wilkinson accepted an invitation to come and see
the Animal Defence Society’s Humane Exhibition.

Questions of Importance Discussed with the
Secretary-General of the League o‘f Nations.—The
activities of the International. Humanitarian Bureau in
Geneva (Bureau International Humanitaire Zoophile) have
been greatly extended, and there is now in the Govern-
ments of the world a steadily growing recognition of the
importance of Animal Protection work. On March 5th
Monsieur M. Avenol, Secretary-General to the League of
Nations, received the Duchess of Hamilton, MiSs Lind-af-
H ageby and Mrs. M ordan at the Secretariat of the League.

167

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

A number of important questions relating to the inter-
national aspects of Animal Protection and the possibilities
of League of Nations action and co-operation were
discussed.

On April 13th, La 'Suisse, of Geneva, published a front
page article on the activities of the Geneva Bureau and on
the Humane Exhibition. The article emphasised the close
relationship of Animal Protection work with the work for
Peace in the world, and commended the sane and practical
lines on which the work of the Bureau is carried out.
Special mention was made of the exhibits relating to
Slaughter reform, Transport, Bull-ﬁghts, Traps, Fur
substitutes and Vivisection.

Suffering of Sea-Birds through Oil Pollution of
Sea-Water: Action by League of Nations.——The
International Humanitarian Bureau in Geneva has since
its foundation in 1928 included the protection of sea-birds
from oil pollution amongst the subjects which urgently
demand international investigation and support.

In a letter addressed to the League of Nations on July
19th, 1934, the British Government drew attention to the
increasing pollution of sea water by the discharge of oil
and 0in water and to the evidence of the great destruc-
tion of sea birds in circumstances involving much suHer-
ing. Reference was also made to the damage to inshore
ﬁsheries and to the amenities of seaside resorts and beaches,
The British Government stated that after careful con-
sideration of representations which have been made to
them they have come to the conclusion that it was their
duty to bring the question before the League of Nations
with the least possible delay and that they had so informed
the principal maritime powers. The British Government
therefore requested that this matter should be referred
for preliminary examination to the Communication and
Transit Organisation of the League.

On September 12th, 1934, at the second meeting of the
Second Committee, under the Chairmanship of M. van
Lanschot (Netherlands), Mr. G. H. Shakespeare, M.P.,
Parliamentary Under-Secretary, British Ministry of
Health, and Substitute-Delegate to the League of Nations,
explained why his Government had brought before the
League the question of the pollution of the sea by oil
and fatty mixtures. The United Kingdom Government
attached great importance to this question from an
international point of view. Every country with a con-

168

 




 

siderable coast-line was to a certain degree aﬁected. “ In
the ﬁrst place,” said Mr. Shakespeare, “‘ much suffering is
inﬂicted on all varieties of sea-birds whose wings become
saturated with oil. Unable to swim, fly, or dive, they die
a painful and lingering death from starvation.”

He then referred to the damage done to coastal ﬁsheries

and the rearing of ﬁsh and to the inconvenience caused
to seas1de resorts.

The following is quoted from the Journal of the

Fifteenth Session of the League of Nations (Number 4,
September 13th, 1934) :—

‘ ‘ To remedy this state of affairs, the United Kingdom Government
had, in 1922, promulgated an Act prohibiting the discharge of oil
or fatty mixtures within three nautical miles of the coast, but this
Act, as referring only to British vessels, did not solve the whole
problem. A draft international Convention had been drawn up at
Washington in 1926, prohibiting the discharge of oil and fatty
mixtures within 50 to 150 nautical miles of the coast.

The Convention, unfortunately, had never been ratiﬁed, but it
had resulted in certain maritime countries making recommendations
to their ship-owners who, in turn, had instructed masters of vessels
to observe the limits suggested in the Draft Convention.

Without going into the details of the rules to be proposed, Mr.
Shakespeare mentioned three principal methods: (1) delimitation of
a coastal zone within which the discharge of oil and fatty mixtures
would be prohibited; (2) separation of the oil and water on vessels,
to be effected by special barges in the harbour; (3) separation of
the oil and water by means of special plant on the vessels them-
selves. Should one of the last two solutions be adopted, the cost

of separating the water and oil would be partly compensated by a
saving on oil.

The United Kingdom Government felt that there was no reason
why maritime countries should any longer tolerate the contamination
of their waters, and he trusted that the League would succeed in
settling this question speedily by international agreement.”

Among the delegates who expressed agreement with the
proposal were the representatives of Italy, Canada, India
and China. The representative of Canada, Mr. Riddell,
in speaking in support of the proposal, specially referred
to the damage to bird life.

The Report was adopted.

 

Memorandum Issued by League of Nations. A.
communication to the Council of the League of Nations
dated December 8th, 1934, by the Secretary-General
records the work done relating to the suffering of sea
birds through oil pollution. The Advisory and Technical
Committee for Communications and Transit appointed a
Committee of Experts which met in Geneva November
19th - 23rd, 1934. It included representatives of the United

169

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Kingdom, Denmark, France, Italy, Japan and the United
States of America. The experts agreed that the damage
caused by oil pollution resulted in the destruction of sea
birds whose wings become saturated with oil and who are
consequently unable to swim, ﬂy or dive and who often
die a painful and lingering death from starvation. The
Committee found that the evils of oil pollution are still
present in the United Kingdom, the United States, in
Japan, in Italy, in France and Denmark.

We quote the following from the Memorandum issued :—_:

“ The object in View is to provide, by international agreement,
some means whereby oil-burning and oil-carrying ships may be
prevented from polluting, through the discharge of oil and oily
mixtures on the high seas, the coasts to which the matter thus
discharged is liable to drift, after travelling, in certain conditions
of wind and tide, considerable distances. It is not possible to
provide a remedy which will be completely eﬂective, since some of
the pollution is due to the stranding or collision of vessels having
oil on board, or to the pouring of oil on to the seas by vessels
during storms and while assisting other vessels in distress. N 0
measures that could be taken could obviate these causes of pollution.
It is, however, possible to guard against pollution caused by the
voluntary discharge of oil and oily mixtures by ships outside
territorial limits, though this can only be achieved through the
co-operation of the chief maritime countries of the world. .It is
obvious that if ships belonging to some of the chief maritime
nations were left free to discharge oil and oily matter without
restriction, the co-operation of the other maritime nations in an
international agreement would largely be frustrated.

The Committee of Experts were agreed that some inter-
national measures should be devised so as to limit the evil
as much as possible, and the Communications and Transit
Organisation therefore recommends that eﬁorts should be
made to attain the conclusion of an international Conven-
tion on the subject. The advantages which might ensue
if such a convention were concluded are, it is submitted,
obvious, in that the damage which is now being caused
to property in harbours, to the interests of seaside resorts,
to bird life, and to ﬁsheries, would very largely if not
entirely, be obviated.”

The representative of the United Kingdom on the
Advisory and Technical Committee on the Pollution of ,
the Sea by Oil, Mr. Grimshaw (of the Mercantile Marine
Department of the Board of Trade) visited the Geneva
Bureau and saw the Exhibition. Mr. Grimshaw was Chair-
man of that Committee.

The International [Humanitarian Bureau on September
17th wrote to a number of humanitarian societies informing
them of the action of the League and inviting them to send

.170

 




 

further information relating to the suffering and destruc-
tion of sea-birds. A large number of replies were received,
together with valuable information. .

Amongst letters sent to Miss Lind-.af-Hageby, President
of the International Bureau, were the following :~—- '

From Mrs. Clinton Pinckney Farrell, President of the Vivisection
Investigation League of New York:—

Directly after receiving your letter on the pollution of coastal
waters—which has troubled me greatly for a long time, for condi-
tions here are horrible—I wrote to the Government at Washington,
to Mr. Jay N. Darling, Chief of the Bureau of Biological Survey.
Mr. Darling is one of the best of President Roosevelt’s many good
appointments. He has long been a humanitarian. He was for many
years the distinguished cartoonist of the New York Herald Tribune,
and gave to the public many valuable bird and animal cartoons.
He now is in charge of wild life in America, and I hope will help
you, as he seems inclined to do. '

From Mr. J. N. Darling, Chief of the Bureau of Biological
Survey, United States Department of Agriculture, Washington, D.C..
to Mrs. Farrell:————

I have your letter of October lst seeking any aid we may turn
toward the work of Miss Lind-af-Hageby.

The campaign to control dumping of oil on our coastal Waters,
and also on our inland rivers, is one of the most important con-
servation measures which we have before us. It is also one of the
most difﬁcult to approach. I earnestly hope that some progress can
be made in that direction, and will contribute all the force back of
this Bureau in an effort to further any legislative measures that
may be eﬁective in that direction.

From Mr. Robert Sellar, President, Animal Rescue League of
Boston :-—-

I am tremendously interested in your letter of September 17th
referring to the increased pollution of sea water caused by the
discharge of oily substances which results in the annual destruction
and-intense suffering on the part of sea birds generally.

We have experienced very grievous conditions off the coast .of
Cape God, in the vicinity of Martha’s Vineyard and the Islandof
Nantucket, for the last three years. We have been compelled to
destroy hundreds of wild ducks due "to oily waste ﬂoating on the
surface of the water. .

Theprohibitory laws are very speciﬁc but are not- enforcedeas
rigidly as they shOuld be. We have ‘taken the matter up with all
the‘”steamship ' lines coming into, Massachusetts waters, and have
receiVed assurances that everything would be done to Correct the .
evil. Promises are cheap, however. 4‘ " ‘ " _ ‘ . .

We have Concluded about the only way" to secure evidence sufﬁcient
to bring about successful prosecution, would be .to employ a
“ spOtter” for a time on suspected vessels. This would be very,
expensive, yet we feel the end justiﬁes the means. We had quite a
few photographs showing wild ducks cast up on the shore which were
chilled‘to the bone and, suffering agenies as a result 0f the practice.
We furnished several newspapers with the copies and a brief search
has failed‘to reveal any extra copies in our oﬁice. ' However, .I shall
look further and will send them'on to you if they come to, light.

171

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

We have been very much interested in all that you do and have
been doing for the relief of suffering on the part of the dumb
creation fer a long period, and we read everything in detail that
comes from you. I have been intending to write to you for some
time telling you of this, and apologize for my failure to express
appreciation long before now.

' From Professor Hjalmar Dahlstrb'm of the Royal Veterinary
Institute, Stockholm:—

The destruction of sea birds by oil pollution is not so extensive
in Swedish waters, because we have no big trafﬁc with oil-stoked
vessels. As you ﬁnd in Fauna ooh Flora: Lauri-berg, “ Sjofaglars
fordarvande genom oljeftiroreningar utsl‘appta frén fartyg,” co-
operative work has been undertaken in Sweden and Norway and
delegates have proposed a convention in order to obtain international
stipulations regarding this question, From different places in the
north of the Stockholm archipelago reports have come in about birds
destroyed by oil pollution. The long-tailed duck (alfégeln) are the
most aﬂected as they spend the night on the open sea. It is
supposed that many hundreds of. such birds have been destroyed
or contaminated by oil.

Regarding ﬁsh lifepand sea vegetation there are no facts to report.

From Stabsintenderotevt Degen, Chairman of the Society for the
Protection of Animate, Copenhagen (Forem’ngen til Dyrevnes
Beskyttelse Ii Danmark) :—-—-

We wish to submit the following experiences in Denmark with
regard to the oil danger for sea birds.

It is, of course, from the West coast that we have received reports
about the drifting ashore of sea birds which have been soaked in
oil discharged by vessels. It is true that in this country there is
a stipulation prohibiting the discharge of oil from ships, but this
applies to the interior waters only. The reports which come to hand
in this matter originate from the lighthouses and light-vessels along
the West coast of Denmark. The following examples may be
g1ven:-——-

Gra-adyb Light-vessel.

“ A number of seagulls which were polluted by oil stayed on the
vessel all day. Owing to their state of complete exhaustion 10 sea-
gulls had to be killed.” .
Vyt Light-vessel.

“ Many sea~gulls and guillemots with feathers polluted by oil
on the vessel. Five guillemots and two sea-gulls had to be killed.”
Lyngvig Light-house.

“ Not infrequently sea birds are found on the beach and in the
downs dead or dying frOm starvation, completely emaciated, because
their feathers are glued together with a tar-like substance,
presumably waste oil from motor-ships.”

These are examples taken from the latest reports obtained, namely
from the year 1931. Observations of a similar nature will very
likely become more frequent in the following years, seeing that
attention has been increasingly drawn to this matter. From the
North Sea Island Fangs, visitors report that it is not seldom that
scores of dead sea birds are found at the waterside, enveloped in a
veritable oily plaster, as shown in the attached picture. The picture
shows a bird which has been lying for some time on the beach in
the sun. Therefore, the oil crust is melted half-way down the
bird’s body.

172:

 

 

 




 

 

 

It would be exceedingly gratifying if the League of Nations
would take the matter up. Only international agreement can do
away with this evil.

We shall be very grateful to learn in due course the results of
your eﬁorts.

The Use of Oil Separators. The British Government
proposed the employment of oil separators at the
Washington Conference in 192-6. Other nations were
against their compulsory use. Amongst shipping companies
using separators are Bibby Bros. & Co., Elder Dempster
& 00., The Orient Steam Navigation (30., The Peninsular
and Oriental 00., The Royal Mail Steam Packet 00., and,
of The White Star Line, the Majestic and the Homeric.

Draft Convention of League of Nations on Transport
of Animals—On October 20th, 1934, there was a Meeting
of Delegates of Governments for the examination of three
Veterinary Draft Questions, including one on the Transit
of Animals. We quote the following from Article 5 of
that draft Convention :-—-—

 

“ With a view to meeting the various diﬁ‘lculties arising
in the course of transit, the exporting countries shall take
steps to see that the animals are properly loaded and
suitably fed and that they receive all necessary attention,
in order to avoid unnecessary suﬁering.

The High Contracting Parties shall take all necessary
measures to avoid overloading.

In the loading of ruminants and pigs, the ﬂoors of the
transporting vehicles shall be covered with pr0per litter.

Consignments of live animals which are not transported
in properly closed portable containers (baskets, boxes,
cages, etc.) must be accompanied by a person in charge
on long journeys. The latter must not be in charge of a
greater number of animals than he can look after.

Transports of live animals must be sent the quickest
route and, as far as possible, by specially accelerated goods
trains.”

Reception to Delegates of the League of Nations—On
September 27th the Duchess of Hamilton and Miss Lind-af-
Hageby gave a reception to Delegates to the Fifteenth
Ordinary Session of the Assembly of the League of Nations.
There was a large attendance. Among those who accepted
the invitation were :--—

Argentina: Son Excellence 1e Dr. Roberto. Levillier, Minister

Plenipotentiary in Warsaw and in Prague, and Mmd Levillier 5
M. Enrique Ruiz-Guinazu, Minister for Argentine, Delegate to the

173

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

XV Assembly of the League of Nations, and Mme. Ruiz-Guinazu.
Australia: Mr. F. K. Oﬁ‘icer, O.B.E., M.C., Adviser to the Australian
Delegation. Austria : Fiirstin Fanny Starhemberg, substitute .
Delegate; Son Excellence 1e Baron Egon Berger-Waldenegg,Minister
for Foreign Aﬁairs; Son Excellence M. Theodore Hornbostel, Envoy
Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary; Dr. Franz Matsch,
Secretary of Legation. Bulgaria: M. Nicolas Antonoif, Minister
Plenipotentiary, Permanent Delegate accredited to the League of
Nations. -Canada: The Right Honourable R. B. Bennett, P.C., K.C.,
LL.D., M..P., Prime Minister, President of the Privy Council of
Canada, Secretary of State for External Aﬁ’airs; Mr. Walter A.
Biddell, M.A., Ph.D., Dominion of Canada Advisory Ofﬁcer
accredited to the League of Nations, and Mrs. Riddell. China:
Mr. C. H. Sung, Secretary of Legation; Mr. Woo Kwang-han,
Attaché at the Legation in Berne. Colombia: Dr. J. M, Yépes,
Delegate to the Assembly of the League of Nations, Senator, Consul-
General in Switzerland; M. Emilio C‘uervo-Marquez, Delegate to.
the Assembly of the League of Nations. Cuba: Son Excellence
1e Dr. Guillermo Patterson, Premier Delegate of Cuba to the
Assembly of the League of Nations, Envoy ExtraOrdinary and
Minister Plenipotentiary in Great Britain; Dr. Manuel F. Calvo,
Chargé d’Aifaires accredited to the League of Nations. Denmark:
Dr. B. Christiani, Engineer, Member of the Chamber of Deputies,
substitute Delegate to the League of Nations; M. Gustav Rasmussen,
Counsellor of Legation attached to the Permanent Delegation
accredited to the League of Nations. Estonia: Son Excellence M.
A. Schmidt, Permanent Delegate to the League of Nations, Envoy
Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary in ROme and Berne;
M. J. Kodar, Secretary of the Permanent Delegation accredited to
the League of Nations. Finland: M. P. O. I. Hjelt, Secretary 01"
Legation. France: M, Georges Cahen-Salvador, State Councillor,
Secretary-General of the National Economic Council. Hungary:
Son Excellence M. Ladislas de Tahy, Minister Plenipotentiary, Head
of the Delegation accredited to the League of Nations; M. B. de
Szent-Istvany, Ministerial Councillor at the Ministry for Foreign
Affairs; M. Zoltan Baranyai, Counsellor of Legation and Madame
Zoltan Baranyai. India: Sir V. T. Krishnama Chari, C.I.E., Diwan
of Baroda State. Irish Free State: Mr. F. T, Cremins,
Permanent Delegate accredited to the League of Nations.
Italy: Son Excellence le comte Edoardo Piola Caselli,
Senator, President of Section at the Court of Cassation; M.
Giacomo Lo Jucco, Consul. Mexico: Son Excellence M. Francisco
Castillo Najera, Ambassador, Envoy Extraordinary and Minister-
Plenipotentiary in France; Dr. Pedro de Alba, Former President of
the Senate, Former Director of the National Preparatory School
and of the School for Higher Studies. Netherlands: Son
Excellence M. J. A. N. Patijn, Envoy Extraordinary and Minister
Plenipotentiary in Rome; Madame C. A. Kluyver, Director at the
Ministry for Foreign Aﬁairs. Norway : Mme. Ingeborg Aas,
Doctor of Medicine, substitute Delegate to the League of Nations;
M. E. O. Maseng, Permanent Delegate to the League of Nations;
M. R. I. B. Skylstad, Head of Division at the Ministry for Foreign
Aﬂairs; M. Rolf Andersen, Secretary of the Legation in London.
Panama: Son Excellence le Dr. Belisario Porras, Envoy Extra-
ordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary in France and Great
Britain._ Poland: Le comte Edouard Raczynski, Permanent
Delegate to the League of Nations, Envoy Extraordinary and
Minister Plenipotentiary, and 1a comtesse Raczynski; M. Titus
Kormanicki, Doctor of Law, Secretary-General of the Delegation

1

"I
O:

 




 

 

to the Conference for the Reduction and Limitation of Arma-
ments; M. Ladislas Kulski, Doctor of Law, Secretary of Legation
at the Delegation accredited to the League of Nations; M. Antoine
Balinski, Attaché of Legation at the Delegation accredited to
the League of» Nations, and Madame Balinski. Portugal: Son
Excellence 1e Dr. Augusto de Vasconcellos, Permanent Delegate to
the League of Nations, former Prime Minister, former Minister for
Foreign Affairs; M. da Guerra Vianna, Counsellor of Legation,
Head of the Ofﬁce of the Permanent Delegation accredited to the
League of Nations; Dr. N. M. Freire de Andrade, Secretary of.
Legation; M, H. R. Dias de Oliveira, Attache at the Legation in
Paris. Siam: Son Excellence Phya Subarn Sompati, Envoy Extra-
ordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary in London, Permanent
Representative accredited to the League of Nations. Spain: Son
Excellence M. Teodomiro de Aguilar, Minister Plenipotentiary,
Director of the Political and Commercial Section of the Ministry
for Foreign Affairs; Son Excellence M. Julio Polez Olivan, Envoy
Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary in Berne; M. Leopoldo
Palacios, Representative on various Commissions of the League of
Nations; Mlle. P. de Cubas, from the Spanish Legation in Berne.
South Africa: Mr. H. T. Andrews, Political Secretary to the High
Commissioner, London; His Excellency Dr. H. D. van Broekhuizen,
Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary at The Hague;
Mr. W'. C. Naudé, High Commissioner’s Ofﬁce, London; Miss M. F.
Burnside, Secretary, High Commissioner ’5 Ofﬁce, London. Sweden:
M. Kumlin, Press 'Bureau, First Secretary at the Ministry for
Foreign Aﬁairs. United Kingdom: Mr. A. Noel Skelton, 7 M.P.,
Parliamentary Under-Secretary for Scotland; Sir Ernest N.
Bennett, M.P., Assistant Postmaster-General; Miss Horsbrugh,
M.B.E., M.P.

S.A. Princesse Tatiana de Russie; Prince Theimouras Bagration
Moukhransky; Princesse Nathalie Bagration MOukhransky; M. and
Mme. Helmer Rosting, League of Nations; Mr. and Mrs. Prentiss
Guilbert, American Consul; Consul and Mrs. Gibson Blake; Mme.
Helene Romniciano; M. and Mme. Emile H. Reh, Consul for
Sweden; M. Robert Haas, Director of the Transport Section of
the Leaguei of Nations, and Mme. Haas; Mrs. Vansittart; Countess
Alberti d’Enno; Mr. and Mrs. R. Armstrong; Miss vanE'eghen,
Secretary of the International Council of Women; Miss Diamanto-
poulos; Miss Lippestad, League of Nations; 'Madame Boissevain;
The Rev. W. S. Senior and Mrs. Senior ; M. and Mme. Herbert E.
Lehmann, League of Nations; M. Max de Meuron ; Mlle. Monique
de Meuron ; Miss Ethel E. Coath ; M. and Mme. Ed. Ostermann ;
Captain and Mrs. Sanford ; Professor and Mme. Edouard Claparéde.

Notices of the reception appeared in J onrnal dc Geneva,
La Suisse and La Tribune dc Geneva. The Journal de
Geneva of September 29th contained the following :—-—

An “ At Home.”

On Thursday evening, at Rue des Granges, the Duchess of Hamilton
and Miss Lind-af—Hageby gave an “ At Home ” to delegates of
the League of Nations and to distinguished inhabitants of Geneva
interested in humanitarian and social activities.

.The garden dominating the ancient ramparts of Geneva and lit
With many-coloured lamps and the sustained music lent a special
charm to this very delightful soirée. ‘

1753

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The delegates discussed with the Duchess of Hamilton and Miss
Lind-af-Hageby humanitarian questions of practical interest, such as
the pollution of maritime waters by oil from vessels which involves
the destruction of sea birds after prolonged suffering, the inter-
national transport of animals, and also the reform of existing
slaughtering methods,

Some of the delegates expressed a wish to visit the Humane
Exhibition at the International Humanitarian Bureau at 4, Cour St.
Pierre, where they were received by Mrs. Mordan and Miss Schartau.
(Translated)

Mr. George Arliss sent a donation of £20 for the
furtherance of the international animal protection work,
which was .greatly appreciated.

Geneva Broadcast. On October 4th, St. Francis’ Day,
news of the international work for the protection of animals
was broadcast from Geneva in the form of a dialogue
between the famous Maitre Sues and Pasteur Christen,
Moderator of the Church of the Canton of Geneva, and
author of Parle pour la Murat—Speak for the Dumb.
Pasteur Christen spoke on the religious aspect of animal
protection, not neglecting the practical implications. He
drew attention to the latest fashion of using as decoration

 

and ornaments for dress the bodies of dead birds and '

feathers. The Weltbund der Natur- und Vogel-Freunde,
of Germany, which has a membership of one million, had
written to the Bureau asking that opposition should be
raised to this fashion. Pasteur Christen outlined the
various activities and speciﬁc objects of the Geneva Bureau
and recommended all listeners to visit the Exhibition, as
it presents impressive evidence of the great work which
is being done to alleviate the suffering of defenceless
animals. As a result of this broadcast a number of people
visited the Bureau.

 

Peace Week in Geneva. One of the features of the
“ Semaine de la Paix ” was a lecture on November 9th,
1934, organised by the Bureau International Humanitaire
Z00phile, 4, Cour St.-Pierre, Geneva, which proved a
great success.

The exhibition hall, which holds about 150 people,
was crowded and seats had to be found in the adjoining
rooms.

Mrs, Mordan, the Secretary of the Bureau, took the
Chair, and wished all present welcome in the name of
the ExeCutive Council of the Animal Defence and Anti-
Vivisection Society. She gave a short resumé of the
objects and the work of the Society and of the International
Bureau and made an appeal to all present to realise their

176

 

 

 

-\

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

moral responsibility in regard to the treatment of animals,
specially emphasising the importance of introducing
Humane Education in schools.

Mrs. Mordan then called on the distinguished writer,
Monsieur Raoul Montandon, to give a lecture on La Pain:
et la Protection des Animaax. Monsieur Montandon
expressed his opinion that the true work for Peace is, above
all, moral and individual. He presented evidence of the
survival of animals and of their intelligence and devotion.
3?le stressed the necessity of teaching the child to respect
a ife.

Dr. Kamensky, lecturer at the University of Geneva,
added a few words, expressing her joy in seeing the
meeting so well attended. She had always believed that
in striving to obtain justice in the treatment of animals,
one also worked in the interests of Peace,

Professor Ludwig Quidde, who received the Nobel Prize
for Peace, gave a short address in which he pointed out
that all who sincerely aspire to Peace, must realise the great
importance of the work carried out by the Animal
Protection Movement.

Maitre Marcel Meyer de Stadelhofen added his hope that
the ﬁne moral of the lecture given by the eminent speaker,
Monsieur Raoul Montandon, well-known to all in Geneva,
would be remembered by those present. He expressed his
great appreciation of. the work carried out by the Bureau
and wished it all success.

Tea was afterwards served, when Countess Alberti
d’Enno and Madame Meyer de Stadelhofen kindly assisted
Mrs. Mordan by acting as hostesses.

 

Other Activities of the Geneva Bureau. The Bureau
continued its humane education activities. The pupils
of the Ecole Internationale, Geneva, accompanied by a
teacher, visited the Bureau and were conducted over the
humane exhibition by Mrs. Mordan, Secretary of the
Bureau. On another occasion the Bureau and humane
exhibition received thirty pupils accompanied by ﬁve
teachers from the Ecole des Paqais. On both occasions
Mrs. Mordan addressed the children on the objects and
signiﬁcance of the work of the International Bureau, and
urged them to remember their responsibilities and the
means by which. they can help suffering animals.

Amongst new afﬁliations to the Bureau were those of the
Luxemburger Tierschutzverein (Société luxembourgeoise

177

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

pour la Protection des Animaux) and the Society for the
Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, of Pretoria, South
Africa.

The many visitors to the International Bureau'in the
autumn of 1934 included Ishbel, Marchioness of Aberdeen
and Temair, President of the International Council of
Women, an organisation which has given effective help to
the cause of the protection of animals.

The Bureau issued Parle pour le‘ Muet, by Pasteur
Ernest Christen, M odemteur de la Compagm'e des Pasteurs
ole Geneva.

                   

Publication of Dental Essays.
Humanitarian Bureau in Geneva published the Dental
Prize Essays by Dr Gaston Guérard, Dr. J. Sim Wallace,
Dr. Charmack, Dr. F. W. Broderick, Dr. Med Anton
Lantschner and Monsieur L Favre.

Importance of Correct Use of Humane Killer. The
following letter was written by the ﬁrm Fritz Kuchen, of
\Vinterthur, manufacturers. of the Swiss Humane Killer,
in reply to representations made by Mrs, Mordan in regard
to wrong instructions in method of shooting in their
illustrated leaﬂet :—

 

FiiITz KUCHEN,
Bahnhofplatz 10
Winterthur,

Aug. 28, 1934.
Mme. M. E. Mordan,

Secretary,
Bureau International Humanitaire Zoophile,
Geneva.
Madam,

I thank you for your letter of Aug. 7th and beg you to excuse the
delay in replying. I sent your letter to a well-known veterinary
surgeon for his opinion, and he writes as follows:—

“ The objections raised by Mrs. Mordan to putting a shot into
the back of the neck are from a scientiﬁc point of viewfully
justiﬁed. The effect of this must be the same as a stab in the
neck, by which the nerve centres of the spinal cord (particularly
those controlling respiration and the function of the heart) are
interfered with. A blow on the neck might have the same eﬁect,
though with this it is probable that bleeding in the brain and
consequent suspension of consciousness would ensue. When calves
are hit on the neck further blows are always immediately given on
the head to ensure unconsciousness. Putting a shot into the back
of. the neck should not be recommended. In shooting through the
front of the head the calf should be well supported, preferably
‘ by the slaughter trestle.”

1‘78

 




 

I shall, of coarse, not distribute any more circulars recommending
shooting in the neck ; I have altered a number of them and enclose

a few in this letter for your use. I thank you sincerely for your
attention.

I am now engaged in bringing out a new set of humane instru-
ments With several improvements, and as soon as I receive some from
the factory I will send you a specimen for your Exhibition.

Yours faithfully,

FRITZ KUCHEN.

The International Dental Federation Decides to
Abandon the Competition.——Readers of this Report are
referred to the Reports of the Society for 1932 and 1933
describing the cruel and useless Competition based on
painful experiments 011 the teeth of dogs, instituted by
the Federation. Your Society carried out in 1932 and 1933
a most vigorous campaign of opposition to these experi-
ments and made arrangements, through the Geneva
Bureau, for a Counter-Competition. The Counter-Competi-
tion was very successful, and on July 19th, 1933, Miss
Lind-af-Hageby, President of the International Humani-
tarian Bureau in Geneva, was able to announce the distri—
bution of prizes and that 52 qualiﬁed dentists, representing
16 nations, had sent in essays on the subject of the useless-
ness and cruelty of the experiments and on the best means
of preventing dental decay in man.

The account of the controversy with Dr. Nord, General
Secretary of the International Dental Federation, and the
world-wide work undertaken by the Geneva Bureau with
the object of raising protests, has been published.

The International Dental Federation ﬁnally decided to
abandon the Competition. Dr. Nord wrote as follows to
Miss Lind-af-Hageby in reply to her inquiry whether the
rcport that the Competition had been abandoned was
correct :—

International Dental Federation,
1, Oude Scheveningscheweg,

The Hague.
To Miss Lind-af—Hageby,

4, Cour St. Pierre, Geneva.
Dear Madam,
I have just received your letter, together with the
pamphlet by Dr. Guérard, for which I thank you.

With regard to the Prize Competition, I am able to
inform you that it was decided in August Last at Como to
cancel the Prize Competition for the treatment of root

179

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

canals, as it was found that on the date appointed (for
commencement) no applications had been entered for work
in a laboratory.

The decision will, of course, appear in the printed report
of the Congress, which will be published in the Journal of
the International Dental Federation, which Journal is not
usually published before the month of March. But you
may regard the above statement as ofﬁcial.

Yours faithfully,

CH. F. L. Noun,
General Secretary.

And on March 24th, 1934, he wrote as follows :—

International Dental Federation,
The Hague.
Dear Miss Lind—af—Hageby,

.T. have just received the Prize essay of Dr. Wallace and I thank
you for sending it. I see that the First Prize was awarded to Dr.
(.a‘ruérard, and that several supplementary prizes were given. I
would be very much obliged if you could tell me if these essays
are published and where I can get them so that I can get an idea
of the value of the answers. I need not tell you that we would
be very pleased if the proof was given that experiments on
animals are really unnecessary.

Yours faithfully,

CH. F. L. NORD,
General Secretary.

This excellent result of agitation and of the Counter-
3ompetition give cause for rejoicing, though it must not
be imagined that cruel experiments on the teeth of dogs
and other animals have been abandoned in other places
and under other auspices.

The British Dental Journal of August 1st, 1934,
contained on page 169, the following:—
Mr. E. W. Fish and others (Royal Dental Hospital, London).

Pending the completion of a new Animal House at the Royal
Dental Hospital, the hyper—vitamin D experiments of Mr. Fish,
referred to in previous reports, have been in abeyance.

Mr. Fish is at present preparing material for what he entitles a
survey of calciﬁc scar tissue associated with dental tissues. This
has involved experimental interference with the dentinal pulps of
guinea pigs, rabbits, dogs and monkeys, both from the mouth
through the enamel, and apically through the jaw. He describes
these experiments as a corollary to the work on scurvy which he
has done in collaboration with Dr. L. J. Harris, of the Dunn
Nutritional Laboratory, Cambridge. They include also an inves-
tigation of “ osteo-dentine ” in the'pike. There is now in proof
a paper by Mr. Fish containing illustrations of the eﬂects of
scurvy in guinea pigs. .

180

 

 




 

 

This isthe same Dr. Fish who, in 1933, made himself
conspicuous by his defence of the Dental Competition,
and who wrote in reply to a letter from the Duchess of
Hamilton and Miss Lind-af-Hageby, that they appeared
to be “ very sadly misinformed, not only as to the nature
of the experiments but also as to their purpose and the
discomfort they would produce on the dogs used.” And
also: “ I feel sure you do not expect me to encourage
your curiosity by discussing the future plans of the
International Dental Federation with you.”

Humane Slaughter.——Your Society continued its work
for humane slaughter.

There was strong opposition amongst British butchers
to the recommendations in the Report of the de la Warr
Committee on live—stock slaughtering. The Report (pub~
lished in March, 1933) recommended that all private
slaughterhouses should be liable to be closed without
compensation at the end of ten years from the coming into
force of the Act, establishing the National Slaughterhouses
Board, compensation being paid only to private slaughter—
houses closed before that time. The Report was not adopted
by the Government,

Meanwhile butchers, representing owners of 16,000
private slaughterhouses, computed to be worth £8,000,000,
met in conference at Buxton and decided to ﬁght the
preposals of the Committee.

The private slaughterhouse should be abolished in the
interests of humane slaughter and hygiene. There is
carried on at the present time, despite recent Acts of
Parliament, an enormous amount of Jewish slaughter,
which is not limited to Jewish consumption. The existence
of the private slaughterhouse makes the computation and
control of Jewish slaughter impossible.

A number of letters dealing with humane slaughter and
the exclusion of sheep from the provisions of the Humane
Slaughter Act were sent to the Press and published.

Temple Cox Captive Bolt Pistols and supply of cartridges
were sent to the Japan Humane Society in Tokio for use
in the public Abattoir. The Japanese Embassy in London
showed much sympathy and interest and undertook to
dispatch the Killer and cartridges. Ofﬁcials from the
Embassy called to see the Slaughter Reform section in the
Humane Exhibition at 15, St. James’s Place, and to see
the construction. and handling of the Temple Cox Pistol.

181

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

A number of Humane Killers were dispatched to Mr.
John Alexander, British Vice-Consul in China, for use in
slaughterhouses and for injured animals in the streets
and elsewhere.

Your Society made strong representations to the Drayton
Urban District Council to adopt the Resolution making
humane slaughter of sheep compulsory, and sent publica-
tions on the subject to each Member of the Council. A
reply was sent by the Clerk of Drayton U.D.C., dated
September 5th, 1934 :——-—

“ Reverting to your letter of July 19th last, I beg to
state that at a meeting of the Council held on Monday
last it was decided to rescind the previous Resolution and
to take steps with a View to Section 1 of the Slaughter
of Animals Act, 1933, being applied to sheep, ewes, etc.”

Students from the London County Council Smithﬁeld
Meat Trades Institute Visit the Abattoir at Letchworth.-—~
On April 12th the Common Council. of the City of London
over which the Lord Mayor presided, passed a resolution
approving of humane slaughter. The Court decided that
Section 1 of the Slaughter of Animals Act, 1933, shall
from May 1st apply to sheep, ewes, wethers, rams and
lambs and voted £300 for the provision of the necessary
apparatus. Mr. F. A. Horner said that the use of old
methods was a form of cruelty.

The following letter was addressed to the Secretary of
the Animal Defence Society :—-———

LONDON COUNTY COUNCIL SMITHFIELD MEAT TRADES
INSTITUTE.
SAFFRON HILL, E.C.1.

7th May, 1934.,
”Dear Sir,

I am desirous that my Senior Day Students here (12 in number)
should have an opportunity of visiting the model Abattoir under
. your charge. . '

I should be glad if you will permit this party, with an instructor,
to visit you on Thursday May 24th, in the afternOon. The party
would arrive about 3 pm. . .

If you are likely to be killing on that afternoon, I should like
to increase the number to 18 students, six of whom are from the
Leathersellers Technical College, who, of course, are interested in the
Hide & Skin production and eﬂicient ﬂaying. The remainder of the
party, who are to be butchers, are interested mainly in the equipment
and general lay-out of the Abattoir.

Yours sincerely,

WALTER H. NEVELL,
Principal.
182

 




 

Arrangements Were accordingly made for the reception
of Mr. Nevell and the students on May 24th, when the
Duchess of Hamilton and Miss Lind-af-Hageby attended
with the object of giving the fullest information on the
subject of humane slaughter. A representative of Messrs.
Douglas & 00., the ﬁrm which supplied equipment for the
Abattoir, was present and demonstrated the working of
the machinery. There was no demonstration of slaughter.
The Principal and the students expressed great interest
in the Abattoir and its objects.

Cattle Ships.—In its work for the mitigation of suffering
and hardship in the transport of animals your Society has
emphasised the urgent need of control and reconstruction
of cattle ships. The Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries
showed its willingness to co-operate in this direction by
lending its assistance to your Society when the ﬁrst large
cargo of overseas cattle was brought into the new docks
at Tilbury. Your Society’s Veterinary representative was
given facilities for inspecting the cattle on board with
the Veterinary Ofﬁcers of the Ministry. On the reports
of this inspection the Ministry requested the Shipping
Company to make alterations affecting the well-being and
safety of the animals, intimating that failure to comply
would prohibit their ships from landing cattle in future.

Meetings.—A lively public meeting was held at Midhurst
on March 23rd, at which Brig-General C. de Winton
presided. The Duchess of Hamilton, Miss Lind~af—Hageby
and Mrs. Arncliffe Sennett were the speakers. The
meeting was held under the auspices of the Midhurst
Anti-Vivisection Society, afﬁliated to the Animal
Defence Society. The growth and inﬂuence of the
Midhurst Society is due to Mrs. Arncliffe Sennett.
Brig-General C. de Winton, in a forceful speech, laid
stress on the moral strength of the anti-vivisection move-
ment. The Midhurst Meeting was enlivened by an inter-
ruption from Dr. Bailey (not to be confounded with Dr.
Beddow Bayly), who challenged the accuracy of a state-
ment made by the Duchess of Hamilton, and who subse-
quently offered an apology. Dr. Bailey also contested
Miss Lind-af-Hageby’s statements in regard to insulin,
and produced a boy, who, he said, would have been dead
but for insulin. Full reports appeared in the Midhurst
Times and in the West Sussex Gazette.

Meetings in Scotland, organised by the Scottish Society
for the Prevention of Vivisection, were very successful.
There were large attendances at the Grand Hotel in

183

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Glasgow on March 27th and at the Caledonian Hotel in
Edinburgh on March 28th. Miss Lind-af-Hageby’s closely
reasoned addresses on Urgent Health Problems of To-day
and Vivisection were followed with keen interest by
audiences which included a number of opponents. The
Duchess of Hamilton again drew public attention to the
evidence of suffering caused in vivisection experiments and
spoke of the sheer hypocrisy of pro-vivisectionists who
declare the life of one human child to be worth the
vivisection of all the animals in the world, whilst, at the
same time, through poison—gas experiments on animals,
vivisectors are making preparations for an intensive
destruction of human life in the event of another war.
Mr. Charles Richard Cammell denounced the moral iniquity
of vivisection in a powerful speech and Dr. Andrew Gold
exposed the futility of vivisectionist theories of health and
demonstrated the soundness of nature-cure principles.

The Scottish meetings were reported in the Scotsman
(March 28th and 29th), The Bulletin and Scots Pictorial
(March 28th), The Glasgow Herald (March 28), The
Edinburgh Evening News (March 29th).

On May 16th the Duchess of Hamilton and Miss Lind-af—
Hageby spoke in Manchester. The Manchester Guardian
of May 15th contained the following :=——-

“ THE CAMPAIGN AGAINST CRUELTY.

“ The Duchess of Hamilton and Miss Lind-af-Hageby are coming
to Manchester on Wednesday to attend the meetings of two impOr-
tant societies concerned with the proper treatment of animals. The
earlier meeting will open a special campaign which the Humane
Education Society is now beginning. The evening meeting will
celebrate the jubilee of the Manchester Society for the Protection
of Animals from Vivisection, which can claim to be the oldest
society founded for the purpose in this district.”

And on May 17th the Manchester Guardian wrote :—-——-

“ People who worked to abolish cruelty to animals and to make
the lives of animals happier were sometimes called ‘ fads,’ said Sir
J. Mathewson Watson, presiding at a meeting of the Humane
Education Society in the Memorial Hall, Manchester, yesterday. But,
he added, most of us would rather be called fads than cads with
regard to our treatment of animals. He spoke of the scandal and
disgrace of working pit-ponies sixteen hours a day in some mines,
and said he felt sure that everyone would support the Bill making
it illegal for mine-owners to work ponies for more than eight hours
a day. He would like to see the day when no ponies were used in
mines, and it was encouraging to learn that at least one big colliery
company in Manchester had agreed to work no ponies in its pits.

“ The Duchess of Hamilton said that the cause for which they
stood was too often regarded as a side-issue. When we considered
the extent to which animals entered into our lives, it was the barest
act of justice to give them justice and consideration in return. Yet

184

 




 

we slaughtered them in order to indulge our appetites, we trans-
ported them without consideration for their comfort, we ill-treated
them for our amusement, we trapped and killed them in order that
women might wear animals’ skins and feathers, and we experimented
on them by killing them with gas and chemicals in order that
we might kill human beings in the next war. A great change in
our conception of values was needed if our treatment of animals
was to change. That could only be achieved through humane educa-
tion, which ought to be part of the curriculum of every school.

“ Miss Lind-af-Hageby said that during the last few years there
had been a marked increase of cruelty to animals, due probably to
unemployment and the unsettled state of the world, which gave rise
to horrible acts of ill-temper. She spoke of the alarming spread of
the bullﬁght from Spain into other parts of Europe; of the bad
inﬂuence of certain books, and of ﬁlms in which tame animals were
goaded to ﬁght by cruel means.

“ THE CHALLENGE TO VIVISECTION.

“ The ﬁftieth annual meeting of the Manchester Society for the
Protection of Animals from Vivisection was held in Manchester last
night. The society is the oldest anti-vivisection organisation in the
Manchester area.

“ Following the business meeting a public meeting was held, at
which the Duchess of Hamilton spoke of the exemption enjoyed
by vivisectors from the ordinary laws against cruelty to animals.
Why should there be that exception? Why should the scientist be
allowed to do things for which the ordinary man would be convicted
of gross cruelty ”.3 A great deal of the work of vivisection was done
openly and unashamedly in the search for knowledge: that is, in.
the gratiﬁcation of curiosity; for much of this knowledge was not
worth having. Much of it was done with the idea of saving human
life. It was sometimes said that it was better to save one human
life even if all the animals were to perish. That was sheer humbug;
at the same time the vivisectors were carrying out experiments on
animals in order to kill human beings in the next war.

“ Miss Lind-af—Hageby gave an account of a number of revolu~
tionary changes in the theories held by the medical profession, and
argued that the results obtained from vivisectional experiments were
undependable and often misleading. Medicine, she said, was a matter
of changing theories and of alleged necessities which, as time went
on, were acknowledged as not necessary. Time after time practices
-—such as vaccination from arm to arm, bleeding, and the use of
strong disinfectants in operations, now replaced by asepsis-which
the medical experts had unanimously declared to be essential, were
renounced as useless and dangerous.

“ A modern example was the practice of cutting out the tonsils.
In London at the present time more than 33 per cent. of school
children had their tonsils removed before they were fourteen. In
an article in the Lancet last January, however, the opinion was
expressed that this operation was never necessary and often harmful.
In a few years she predicted that the fashion of cutting out the
tonsils would have been renounced. This illustrated the dangers of
the experimental surgery which seemed to have replaced the old
clinical method of individual attention to the patient. ”

185

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

In se'conding a vote of thanks to the speakers at the
Meeting of the Manchester Society for the Protectlon of
Animals from Vivisection, Mr. Alex Dowson, the Chairman,
said :— -

‘ ‘ It gives me great pleasure to second the vote of thanks because,
as representing the Committee of the Manchester Society for the
Protection of Animals from Vivisection, we are in a special way
deeply indebted to the speakers to-night, both for their ready response
to our invitation and for the wonderful addresses they have given us.
We are very glad to record our very sincere thanks and gratitude for
their very valuable assistance. ,

This Society is the oldest in Manchester working against the
practice of vivisection—having been formed in 1884, and it is most
ﬁtting that to-night we have had the rare opportunity and the rare
pleasure of listening to such distinguished and able exponents of
our cause because this Society this year completes 50 years of
steady and active propaganda work, and I think. this public meeting
is a very appropriate way of celebrating this important event in
our history. During the past half—century many of Manchester’s
leading and most enlightened citizens have been closely associated
with this Society. In 1896 a former Bishop of Manchester, Bishop
Moorhouse, was President of the Society, and at'the Annual Meeting
of that year delivered a very striking address, which created quite
a stir at the time and was widely quoted.

Then Mr. and Mrs. Herbert Philips, whose names over a lengthy
period were household words throughout philanthropic circles in
Manchester and the surrounding area, had our cause very dearly
at heart.

In looking through our past records other names occurring as
having afforded valuable help at one time or another include:
Dr. and Mrs. Arnold, Jacob Bright, M.P., Rev. J. W. Knox-Little,
Prof. J. W. Graham, Mr W. Price-Heywood, Councillor T. Royle,
Dr. Alex. Bowie, Rev. Philip Wicksted, and many others.

Coming to quite recent times we have received invaluable assistance
from the late Mr. Cuming Walters, for many years Editor of the
Manchester City News.”

In her speech at the Meeting of the Humane Education
Society, Miss Lind-af—Hageby paid special tribute to the
late President of the Society, Mr. J . Cuming Walters, and
to three late Vice-Presidents of the Society, Mr. John
Galsworthy, Mr. Ernest Bell and the Rev. B. G. Bourchier.

Mr. Dowson reminded Miss Lind-af-Hageby of her long
association with the Manchester Society for the Protection
of Animals from Vivisection, and of an address given by
her to that Society in 1905, when Dr, G. H, Pinder
presided, and of another given in 1908, when she spoke
on “ The Meaning of the Recent Agitation For and
Against the Brown Dog Memorial.”

There was an interview with Miss Lind-af-Hageby in the
Manchester Evening News (of May 16th, 1934), where she stated
“ that she is a little disappointed in women.” “ Having got the
vote in this country,” she said, “ I do not think women have

186

 




 

pressed suﬁiciently their inﬂuence and power in such questions as
housing, unemployment and health. It is not true to saythat
women have achieved their objectives: there is a long way to go.’ ’
She emphasised the need of humane education in schools and said.
“ We teach that the treatment of animals is closely connected
with every other ethical and social problem.” Reports of the
Meetings also appeared in the Manchester City News.

On May 29th a well-attended Meeting was held at
Haslemere, Surrey. It was arranged by Miss Olsen of
Marley with the co-operation of friends of the cause. The
Duchess of Hamilton took the Chair, and an address was
delivered by Miss Lind-af-Hagcby.

The Herald for Farrnham, H aslemere and H indhead of
June 2nd published a long and sympathetic report of the
addresses, and the Midhurst Times reported as follows :-~

“Lady Lumb proposed the following resolution: ‘ That this
meeting calls upon His Majesty’s Government to introduce legis-
lation to abolish experiments on all living animals; this meeting
wishes to add further that it considers the teaching and practice
of such cruelties as demoralising and detrimental to the character
and health of the people.’ Mrs. Arncliffe Sennett, in seconding
the resolution, said nothing was going to be done unless they
attacked the Government. The Government was largely respon~
sible for the present position, because it was one of the worst
vivisectionist bodies in the country. Even the League of Nations
was practising vivisection. They should all write to the Prime
Minister and tell him that they would not support his Government
at the next election unless he abolished vivisection. The time was
come to put principle before party. The motion was carried
runanimously. Miss Olsen thanked all those who by their kind
co-operation had made that meeting possible, the clergy, Lady Lumb,
Mrs. Arncliﬁe Sennett (founder of the Midhurst Society), Mrs.
Chester Fisher, Miss Edelston, General de Winton, the Salvation
IArmy, the Scouts, and last, but not least, all those who, by
displaying notices had made the meeting known.”

On May 13th the DuChess of Hamilton gave an Address
in Trinity Church, Glasgow, by the invitation of the
;- Vegetarian Society and the Rev. H. S. McClelland, B.A.,
3: B.D.- The title of her Address was “ The Christian Ethics
'_ and the Animal Kingdom.” The Trinity Church Monthly
Circular (June-August) .in referring to the Service, wrote :
‘A delegation from the Scottish Vegetarian Society attended the
‘Service, and the lessons were read by Dr. Robertson. The Minister

_‘ led the devotions. At the close of the Service the hall was
crowded with people eager to put questions to the Duchess.

The Service was reported in the Glasgow Herald of
May 14th and in the Vegetarian Messenger for June.

Dr. H. Fergie Woods, at the request of your Society,
.undertoOk- to debate. on ,Vivisection on November 15th at

187

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

a meeting arranged by the Chelsea Polytechnic Literary
and Debating Society. Dr. Rex Binning spoke in defence
'of Vivisection.

In November Mr. Edward G. Smith spoke on behalf of
your Society on “ Animal Sacriﬁce in Modern Life ” to
the Co-‘operative Youth Circle in Hackney Grove, London.
In this address Mr. Smith dealt with ritualistic animal
sacriﬁce among primitive peoples, sacriﬁce for sport, enter-
tainment, fashion, food, and ﬁnally for science.

Mrs. Beddow Bayly spoke on behalf of your Society to
the Tooting Branch of the Women ’s Co-operative Guild on
“ Diet ” on November 27th.

The Worthing and District Animal Welfare Group.—
This group of enthusiastic workers for the anti-vivisection
and animal protection cause has allied itself to the Animal
Defence and Anti-Vivisection Society, and inaugurated the
event by a well-organised out—door propaganda campaign,
during which the publications issued at Headquarters were
distributed and many adherents gained. A public meeting
on August 2nd, at which Miss Gwendoline Staunton, B.A.,
spoke on behalf of the Animal Defence and Anti-Vivisec-
tion Society, concluded this special educational effort which
has been carried on by steady, daily work under the able
guidance of Mrs. Zabell-Chalmers, Hon. Secretary of the
Group. Another successful anti-vivisection meeting was
held on December 7th, at which Mr. E. C. Waterman took
the chair, and Mr. G. C. Maberley, LL.B., was the speaker.
A good report appeared in the W orth’lng Gazette.

Dr. Beddow Bayly spoke at the request of your Society
at Ipswich on January 31st and at the Voysey Club on
February 8th.

The Annual Business Meeting of the Animal Defence
' SOciety. was held at 15, St. James ’s Place on November 27th.
. The Report and Financial Statement for the year 1933
were read to members and associates. The adoption of
the Annual Report and Financial Statement was moved
by Mr. F. Stratton and seconded by Mrs. Hedley Thomson.
f The adeption was carried unanimously. Mr. W. Staunton
- moved and Mr. Shaw Stewart seconded the election of
Members of the Executive Council, which was carried
unanimously. The election of the Vice-Presidents was
moved by Dr. Beddow Bayly and seconded by Mr. E. G.
Smith.

The chair was taken by the Duchess of Hamilton, who
welcomed those present and called on Miss Lind—af—Hageby

188

 




 

to address the meeting on the most important events re-
corded in the report for the year 1933. Miss Lind-af—
Hageby said :—

“ The ﬁrst thing which I think we should point out in
regard to the work of this society is its many-sidedness.
We believe in being as logical and consistent as possible.
That does not mean~—-I say it again for the benefit of
those who may not have heard i'twit does not mean that
we discourage people who do not go the whole way with
us. We welcome them. We try to interest them in the
various aspects of the work, we try to draw them further
and further within the circle. We are glad and highly
appreciative of the smallest sign of sympathy with the
cause for which we stand.

“ There are four stages in the march of every great
reform which, I think you will agree, can be observed.
First of all, it meets with indifference. Then it arouses
violent Opposition. Then it meets with compromise—«peeple
come forward and offer this and that, mostly to keep you
quiet and put an end to it—that is the third stage. Then
there is the fourth stage, which is the general acceptance
of that for which men and women have given their lives,
and people say, Well, of course, I always thought so!
What’s all the fuss about? And so the reform is achieved.

“ The pioneers, who have fought, disappear, but the Cause
goes marching on. That is how causes are won and ulti-
mately become absolutely impersonal: personality is our
sacriﬁce on the altar of Progress.

“ The work of this Society is both direct and indirect. I t
is certainly political, it is national, and international. It
has to be international, because there are so many subjects
relating to the protection of animals that can only be
dealt with effectively internationally.’ ’

Miss Lind-ameageby then gave an account of the
activities of the Society during 1933. The Duchess of
Hamilton drew attention to a beautiful picture, painted
by Mr. Fred Stratton, which was hung in the meeting
room. The painting represents Christ in the Wilderness.
She said:

“ You know that according to St. Mark He went into
the Wilderness to prepare and gain strength for His great
temptation. ‘ He was with the wild beasts, and the angels
ministered unto Him.’ Someone came in here the other
day who was very fond of animals and said: ‘ That has
given me an entirely new View; I always thought before
that the angels were there to protect Christ from the

189

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

. l

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

animals.’ Words fail me to express to Mr. StrattOn what
I think of that picture. He has caught the spirit of what
I have long wished to see expressed in art.

“The other day an article appeared entitled Men or Dogs.
It referred to the pampering of animals. It put men and
animals in juxtaposition. There are people who do silly
things all over the world. But there is a wonderful gift
which humanity gets from animals. I wonder how many
people have been saved from insanity by the friendship of
a dog or a cat; who have been given their faith in the
reality of the virtues Christ teaches, because they saw them
in their humble friend—~a selﬂess devotion that we rarely
receive from our human friends? I know of cases in
which people have felt overpowered by this world, over-
come with the selﬁshness and the greed that is rampant
in humanity; they have gone away to the woods and
the ﬂowers; they have had the companionship of a dog,
who helps them to ﬁnd again peace of. mind; and I say that
that is a debt which it is difﬁcult to repay to animals.

“I would like to add my conviction that the very strength
of this Society lies in the unity we have amid the diversity
of all the subjects. We go to the spirit of it all, the spirit
of religion. We are often told that we owe so much to
Darwin, that he showed the evolution of the animal world,
the connection between the animal and man. It is far,
far older than that. \Ve ﬁnd it in the essence of all the
world-religions and we hope presently to show you here
in this house by pictures and models how much this
question enters into the heart of spiritual life.”

Short addresses were given by Dr. Estcourt Oswald, Mrs.
Hedley Thomson, Dr. Beddow Bayly and others. There
was a discussion on ﬁlm cruelties and on the suffering
inﬂicted on animals in the manufacture of serum.

Discussion to Which Pro-Vivisectionists were Invited.—
On November 28th there was another well-attended meeting
at the Animal Defence House. It had been announced that
pro-vivisectionists as well as anti—vivisectionists would be
welcome to take part in the discussion on the following
questions: What is the object of anti—vivisectt'on ? What
does it seek to do for Humanity? What has the prevalent
system of experiments upon animals done for human
health? Miss Lind-af-Hageby delivered an address which
was followed by questions and discussion. Among those
who took part in the discussion were the Duchess of
Hamilton, Mr. Gibbons, Miss Holme, Mr. Taylor, Mr. Cory,
Dr. Lionel Atherton and Mrs. Dudley Ward.

190

 
  
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
   
   
   
 
 
 
  
  
 
    
  
   
   
 

 

  




 

    

    

Other Addresses.——Thc Duchess of Hamilton addressed
a meeting of members of the Women’s International
Federation and Press Representatives on Films and the
Need to Raise the Standard and to Eliminate Cruel Films.
(Reported in Daily Mail of July 12th and Sunday Post of
July 15th.) The Duchess of Hamilton addressed the Annual
Meeting of the Anti-Vaccination League on April 19th.
On June 18th she presented prizes at Burgh Hall, Pollok~
shields, to the girls of Miss Ritchie ’s school. She gave an
address urging them to develop that spirit of motherhood
which gives tender care to all living creatures. On
November 18th at the request of Lady Lees and two
youthful members of her school, Lady Cecilia Fitzroy and
Miss Rosamond Lees, the Duchess of Hamilton gave an
address to the whole school on the need for protection and
care of animals. Dr. Beddow Bayly spoke on January 31st
on behalf of the Society at Ipswich on Immunization and
at the Voysey Club on February 8th on Vivisection.

Miss Lind-af-Hageby spoke at the Grotrian Hall, London,
on the Dynamics of Health on November 4th. She gave
an address on the Union of Religions—with moral implica-
tions———in.Cheltenham on November 8th and on November
11th she spoke at the Queen ’s Hall, London.

On Whit Monday, 1934, she opened the Atherton Triunc
College of Healing at Sun Haven, Ranmore Common, near
Dorking. This Institution, which is under the auspices of
the British Federation of Natural Therapeutics, registers
another step of progress towards sane and natural methods
of healing. Set in scenery of great natural beauty, 600
feet above the level of the sea, this Healing Home is devoted
to the practical carrying out of three ways of healing, i.e.,
osteopathy, psycho—therapy and botano-therapy. She
lectured in Geneva on March 6th to the Anglo-Genevese
Society. '

Miss Horsfall distributed our publications and Mrs.
Beresford Holmes asked questions at Professor Mellanby’s
lecture at Leeds University. Professor Mellanby has
performed series of dental experiments on dogs. Letters
by Mrs. Beresford Holmes on the, uselessness of dental
experiments on dogs were published by the Yorkshire Post
in February. Miss Olsen spoke on vivisection at a meeting
of the Supernatural Society on November 6th.

Humane Education Work.—-Two St. Francis posters
were sent to the Headmistress of St. Paul’s Infant School,
Manchester, for display. The Headmistress gave Humane

191

 

 

 

 

 

 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Education talks to the children. A supply of our publica-
tions for children was sent for distribution on Animal
Sunday at St. Mary’s Eton Mission, Hackney.

Copies of the St. Francis poster were sent to the School of the
Lotus Flower in Newton Abbot together wtih various large illus-
trated cards and publications for children. The Headmistress wrote
saying how much she and the children had appreciated the publica~
tions and that the pictures had given opportunities for talks to the
pupils about their responsibilities to animals. A selection of
humane publications was sent to Rover Scout V. Woodward, Reading,
for distribution among members of his Scout group. Throughout
the year Mr. F. French distributed humane education publications
in schools and to teachers and children in towns and villages.

At Christmas time advertisements were inserted in the Children’s
Newspaper appealing for support for the Society’s Youth Group.

Cripple Children Collect Money for a Dog Licence.
Mrs. E. H. Stone, Headmistress of the Osborne Place
Physically Defective School, Whitechapel, sent 7/6 and
wrote: “ The children attending the above-named Cripple
School have saved their half-pennies again this past year
in order to send you 7 / 6 to buy a licence for some poor
person who cannot afford to buy one and will otherwise
have to part with a loved pet. I encourage them to do
this, not by asking their parents to contribute, but by going
without something themselves, so that it is really their
own gift.” A number of dog licences were given to poor
peOple after thorough investigation of reasons for the
demand. M ono’s Fund—established in memory of a
much loved dog-helped to pay for them.

Anti - Vivisection Work. —- Your Society continued
unremittingly its work to expose the cruelties of Vivi-
section and to enlighten the public in regard to injury
and deaths caused by the application to humanity of
vivisectionist theories. Much publicity was given to
certain horrible experiments on dogs, performed in the
Department of Experimental Surgery, University of
Edinburgh and the Clinical laboratories, Royal Inﬁrmary,
Edinburgh. The illustrated article describing these ex—
periments, in which the intestines of dogs were obstructed,
appeared in a journal entitled Surgery, Gynecoloyy and
Obstetrics. The chief of the editorial staff for the British
Empire is Lord Moynihan, K.C.M.G., C.B., M.S.,
' F.R.C.S., and amongst the members of the American sec-
tion of the editorial staff is the notorious vivisector, George
W. Crile, M.Dl. The journal is published in Great Britain
by Bailliere, Tindall and Cox, 8, Henrietta Street, Covent
Garden, London, and the number from which the illustra-
tion is taken was issued in April, 1932. The article in

192

 

 




 

which it appeared is entitled The Role of Bile in High
Intestinal Obstruction, and its authors are E. B. Benedict,
M.D., C. P. Stewart, Ph.D., M.Sc., and P. N. Cutner, M.B.,
Ch.B., Edinburgh, Scotland.

These vivisected dogs, of which a picture is shown,
must have suffered great pain and misery. It is stated
that nothing was given them by the mouth except an
occasional sip of water. A table is published by the
authors of the length of life after operative obstruction
in three dogs experimented on by them: One lived 27
days, another 44 days, and the third, which was “ very
fat,” 58 days. Another series of dogs lived 24 to 29
days. Chemical ﬁndings were recorded in a number of
dogs after 23, 44, 58,. 24, 27, 29 and 36 days of obstruction
respectively. In some of these experiments the small
intestine was stitched to the abdominal wall "through
which an opening into the small intestine was maintained ;
in others the bile duct was divided and the end nearer
the liver was stitched into an opening into the abdominal
wall. Whilst addressing meetings in Edinburgh and
Glasgow in the spring of 1934, your President and Hon.
Director described these Scottish experiments and de-
nounced them as cruel and revolting and as barren of
any observation which can usefully be applied to the
cure of human disease.

In May, Miss Lind-af—Hageby wrote to the Manager
of the Medico-Biological Laboratories Ltd, 9, Cargreen
Road, South Norwood, London, SE, denouncing
a pamphlet issued by the ﬁrm, which contained reproduc—
tions of photographs showing cruel and offensive experi-
ments on guinea-pigs. She pointed out that the ﬁrm was
not registered for experiments on animals under the Act
of 1876. The Manager replied by a discourteous letter
which gave no information. The important point of this
protest, which was published, was that an immense number
of experiments on animals takes place every year under
the auspices of trade in drugs of various kinds.

Facts About Insulin.-~Reference has already been made
in this Report to the statements made at an Anti-Vivisection
Meeting at Midhurst by Dr. B. E. G. Bailey in reference to
Insulin. Miss Lind-af—Hageby had stated that the death
rate from diabetes had gone up since the introduction of
Insulin and Dr. Bailey, who produced a boy alleged to
have been kept alive through the use of Insulin, contra-
dicted her statements.

193

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The following are ﬁgures for the death-rate from diabetes in
England and Wales since the introduction of insulin:

1924 109 per million of population.
1925 112 ,, ,,

1926 115 ,, ,,

1927 126 ,, ,,

1928 131 ,, ,,

1929 142

“ As is now well known, insulin is not a ‘ cure ’ for diabetes

. . . Insulin is administered at regular intervals, usually once or
twice a day, by subcutaneous injection . . . . The effect of an
overdose in a diabetic is to produce distressing symptoms and
possibly convulsions. Insulin treatment must therefore be carefully
regulated by reference to quantitative measures of the diet, the
sugar in the blood, and the potency of the insulin given.”~
(Report of the Medical Research Council, 1922-23, p. 87.)

‘ ‘ Insulin is not curative of diabetes, and therefore the treatment
must be indeﬁnitely long.”——(HALE-WHITE, Materia Medica, 19th
Edition, 1927, p. 670.)

“ . . . insulin has not been universally accepted.”—(Lancet, Feb.
9th, 1929, p. 296.)

“ . . in some cases of diabetic coma its use hastens the fatal

issue. ”'—(J. E. R. MCDONAG-H, The Nature of Disease, Part ii, p.
217.)

Apart from the initial procedures, the cruelty involved in insulin
production resides in the “ standardisation.” This is effected by
subcutaneous injection into a fasting rabbit or dog of given weight
of such quantity of the new insulin as will lower the blood-sugar
content to a certain ﬁgure. At “ three units ” the animal suffers
from convulsions with intervals of coma.

“ When insulin causes convulsions the sequence of events is
usually as follows: About two hours after the injection the animal
throws itself out of its cage, and has convulsions lasting for about
a minute or two. Then the animal either lies unconscious on its
side or recovers, to begin another series of convulsions. The ﬁts,
with their intermissions, continue for an hour, and while they are.
in being the animal is in an extreme state of opisthotonus—the
head being retracted and the hind limbs extended. While the
animal is unconscious the breathing becomes rapid and shallow,
and jerky movements of the extremities can be observed. Should
the convulsions end fatally the animal dies of respiratory failure
. . . In some fatal cases the ﬁts are continuous. . . . ”—(J. E. R.
MCDONAGH, The Nature of Disease, 1924:, Ch. XVI. p. 280.)*

In a letter published in the .7ll'idlmu‘st Times on March
30th, Dr. Beddow Bayly wrote :——-

“ With regard to Dr. B. E. G. Bailey’s point that diabetes was
always fatal to children before the use of insulin, that is not strictly
accurate. I believe the I-Iomoeopaths have had considerable success
in such cases. The mortality of diabetes has gone up both here
and in America ever since insulin was introduced in 1922. Moreover,
if Dr. Bailey had studied the statistical bulletin of the Metropolitan
Life Insurance Co. (U.S.A.), he would have learnt that the chances
of dying from diabetes show an increase particularly in the earlier
years of life.

194

 




 

“According to their report (Vol. 14, No. 4, p. 7, April, 1933):
In the last ten years the probability of dying from diabetes has
increased from 13 to 15 (per 1,000 born) among white males, and
from 18 to 27 (per 1,000 born) among white females. . . . The real
danger of insulin lies in the fact that attention is diverted from the
cause and hence cure and prevention of the condition. As D1. J.
E. R. McDonagh has stated in his work, The Nature of Disease
Journal, Vol. I: ‘ Diabetes is a symptom, not a disease, and insulin
does no more than palliate this symptom. The drug throws no light
upon the cause, it does not act in the manner described, and had
the cause been found ﬁrst and eradicated as it can be, there w0uld
have been no need for its use.’

The Failure of Cancer Research by Means of Experi-
ments on Animals. A great deal of work was done dur-
ing the year with the object of drawing public attention to
the failure of Cancer Research and to the consequent waste
of public money. Your Society has dealt with this question
by means of large public meetings in the past and will
continue to do so. Conﬁrmation of the charges of failure
persistently made by your Society was given in a letter by
Dr. Hastings Gilford, entitled The New Cancer Problem,
in the British M edical Journal of January 20th, 1934. He
wrote :—

“ And so after a third of a century of intensive
experimental research by all the great civilised nations we are told
by those best qualiﬁed to judge that there is no more prospect
of clearing away the mystery of the origin of cancer than there
is of answering the riddle of the origin of life .or indeed, of
perpetual motion, or of squaring the circle.

‘ “ There is much to be said of the belief now held by many
oncologists that the chief cause of this new obstacle to progress
is the present dominance of experimental research over clinical and
pathological investigation of cancer in man. . . . Invariably the
evidence from the mouse claims precedence over that from the
man . . . we all know that so far as human oncology—the only
thing that counts—is concerned, the student of human cancer can
point to great and solid achievements in matters of structure, of
diagnosis, and of treatment; whereas oncologists of the fowl or
mouse can claim nothing but a record of hard work, great ingenuity
and unbroken failure.

“. . . When, therefore, the experimentalist comes forward as the
supreme arbiter and authority on all that concerns the study of
human cancer, he lays himself open to the retort that his claim
is no better founded than is that of the washerwoman who claimed
to be an authority on the upbringing of children on the ground
that she had buried nine.

“. . . Close, painstaking, minute research in a laboratory is not
conducive to the right understanding of large sociological problems
involving questions of food or of civilisation or race. Indeed, it
would even appear that the more eminent a man in the little werld
of research, the less is he ﬁtted to give an unbiased opinion in
matters concerning cancer of human beings. And there would be
no difﬁculty in ﬁnding instances pointing to the truth of this
Statement.”

 

, 195

 

l ,
1

«Mt
l 5

 

l

u)

1

{WA
.
l

 

Ii?

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

- Medical Education—Dr. G. F. Walker, to whom
reference was made in the Report of 1933, contributed a
second article to the Medical World (December 8th, 1933).
The second article Was entitled The Physician’s Case
.rlgainst lr’i'visection. Dr. Walker, who amongst other posts
holds that of Consulting Physician to the Sunderland
Municipal Hospital, showed how medical education is
permeated with vivisection to the detriment of the student ’s
subsequent career as a practising physician. He criticised
the established practice of scientiﬁc bodies to encourage
vivisectional research to the exclusion of clinical investi-
gation. His conclusions as to the value of experiments on
animals, of which he gave a list of typical examples, may
be aptly summed up in his statement of belief that
“ vivisection has misdirected research, misled research
workers, and by absorbing energy, money, intellect and
time in the pursuit of frequently barren investigation has
incalculably delayed and impeded medical progress. The
M edlcal Press and Circular of March 7th, 1934: contained
a number of interesting and highly critical articles on the
medical curriculum.

“ Students,” wrote Dr. Chalmers Watson, M.D., F.R.C.P.E., “ are
systematically overtaught and overcranimed. They are not really
educated. They have not time to teach themselves. Their training
in practical Medicine is seriously inadequate.” Writing on The
Making of a Specialist, Dr. N. Bishop Harman, F.R.C.S., LL.D.,
pointed out that the medical specialist inevitably becomes a man
of one idea. “ One who thinks everything of his own work and
cares little for any other work, and with every year of this concen-
tration he is liable to become as a man and as a practitioner of
Medicine more lopsided, and therefore potentially unsound, if not
dangerous, in general Medicine.”

Dr. Philip H. Dalgleish stated boldly that 90 per cent. of students
are destined to be general practitioners and that 90 per cent. have
no qualiﬁcations for this work. “ To the newly qualiﬁed graduate
Medicine is too largely a matter of scientiﬁc facts and reactions.
The human factor is almost entirely eliminated from his training.
He knows little or nothing of human nature. He has been taught
to label his patients ; to him they are ‘ duodenal ulcers,’ ‘ G.P.I.,’
‘ hearts,’ etc. They are thus labelled and placed in pigeon-holes,
and in each pigeon-hole there is a little packet containing the
standard treatment for the condition concerned. That each patient
is an individual, and must be treated as such, rarely enters the mind
of the recent graduate. All through his course his experience has
been second-hand. He has had no time to think, and why “8 Because
his time has been spent in learning up the branches and relations
of some artery, the name of which he will probably never hear
again. He has spent hours ﬁxing a frog’s heart to a cannula, or
drawing pretty (“3) diagrams of histological and botanical slides
or learning how a certain organism will grow on a potato. He
is destined for general practice, yet he does not know how to stop
toothache, or even relieve it. He knows not how to treat constipation,

196

 

 




 

 

 
    
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
  
   
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  

or to relieve a headache, nor the hundred and one little things a
general practitioner must know.”

The concentration on theories evolved from vivisectional
research and practice is largely responsible for this
inadequacy, of such dire consequences to the patients who
seek help. '

 

Fashions in Medicine. Much stress was laid during
the year on the fact that medical fashions come and go
and that animals are tormented in support of a theory
which, upheld to-day, is discarded to-morrow. Mr, T. B.
Layton, Surgeon to the Throat and Ear Department of
Guy’s Hospital, wrote in The Lancet of January 20th,
1934 :—

. “ the operation for the removal of the tonsils has a greater
number of complications to life, as to immediate illnesses, and to
post-operative impairment of function, than any other operation of
the same magnitude. So long is the list, that if it were read over

at the time of consultation any parent would hesitate to consent
to the operation being performed.

. “ the operation is never ‘ absolutely necessary ’ . . . it is of
recent origin . . . yet there is no evidence as yet to show that the
subsequent generations who have grown up in the age of tonsillec-
tomy are ﬁtter than that which experienced the Great War.

“ I further believe that it is fraught with grave consequences
to the hearing even when all immediate post-operative complications
have been avoided.”

An article was published in Progress To-day of J anuary-
March, 1934, entitled Cannibalistic Medicine, dealing with
Dr. A. C. Magian’s treatment of Cancer with human
placenta. The article contained the following :-—~

From time to time one reaches the conclusion that modern medical
research workers must surely have reached the nadir of revolting
inventiveness in their recourse to the oﬁal of the slaughterhouse
and various corpse—products.

Having done so, one almost immediately receives a rude awakening
in the discovery that this optimistic view was unjustiﬁed. Following
the glut of glandular products, juices of organs and hormones
extracted from the urine of pregnant women, we have recently been
presented with a thoroughly ghoulish invention which takes the
form of “ A New Treatment for Cancer,” and consists in the
injection of “ fresh human placenta and ovary, plus certain sera.”

A number of articles on experiments on animals and
associated subjects appeared in Progress To-day. Amongst
them, The .Basic Principles of Health and Disease, by
M. Beddow Bayly, M.R.C.S‘., L.R.C.P.; Mental Treatment
and Medical Tyranny, by Edward G. Smith; Pistany as a
Health Resort for Sick Animals, by Joseph Delmont; The
Friend of Man, by E. Douglas Hume; A New Heaven and
a New Earth, by Morley Steynor; M ediaal Freedom, by
L. Lind-af-Hageby; Infantile Paralysis and Serum Treat“

ment, by M. Beddow Bayly, M,R.C.S., L.R.C.P.; Dissecm
197

 
   

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

tion by Ch71d7 en, Medicine-wthe Actual and the Ideal, by
H. Fe1gie Woods, MUD ,Unexplored Aspects of Vivisec-
tion, by A. P. Targett Ad,ams Practical Politics, by E.
Douglas Hume, and D7 Foveail de Courmelles: Humani—
tarian, Scientist, Man of Lette7s.

The Medical Times of March, 1934, wrote that the
article by Miss Lind-af—Hageby, entitled Childbirth M ortal—
itg, published in Progress To-Dag (October-December,
1933), “ is well worth perusal . , the writer has much
to. say on the advantages of home versus hospital in
maternity cases.”

The Dental Prize Essays were sent out to members of
the Society, to Anti-Vivisection Societies in every part of
the world, to daily newspapers, the dental Press, and a
number of dentists. Reviews appeared in the Dental
Record (April, 1934), the Medical Oﬁ‘lcer (April, 14th,
1934), Our Dogs (March 16th, 1934), and other papers.

Publications.———The verbatim report of the proceedings
at the Conference on Humane and Inhumane Methods of
Destroying Animals was published together with State-
ments and Observations contributed in a volume of 91
pages. It was sent to the Press, to Veterinary Colleges,
Veterinary Journals and Animal. Protection Societies.
Reviews and notices appeared in : The Times, the Christian
World, The Cat, Our Dogs, the Yorkshire Evening Press,
The Field, the Morning Advertiser, Home and Country
(Ofﬁcial Organ of Women’s Institutes), Lancet, and other
newspapers.

Amongst other publications issued were Christian Ethics
and the Animal Kingdom, by N. Hamilton and Brandon;
Retribution, by Morley Steynor; Do you Believe in Vac-
cination? (reprinted from the Diailg Herald of April 24th)
by N. Hamilton and Brandon ; Should we be M any-sided?
by L. Lind- af-Hageby; The Animal Protection Sections in
the Lord Mayor’s Processions,1929 and 1930; Ani777al
Sac7iﬁces in India.

The Dogs of the Hospice of Grand St. Bernard.————In

'the July-September number of Progress To-Dag, Miss

Lind-af—Hageby described how the St. Bernard dogs are
kept at Grand St. Bernard. She visited the HOSpice in
August, 1934, and. found some of the world 1enowned
dogs kept in a dark and badly ventilated cellar

Vivisection in Missionary Medical Schools. .._.. Dr.
Millard, who during visits to missionary medical schools
in China had found that vivisection experiments on

198

 

 

  




 

   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
   
   
 
   
 
   
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 

animals, including dogs, were carried out for the instruC“
tion of students in these schools without any regard for
the suffering of the animals, appealed to your Society
to make strong representations to the English missionary
organisations which help to subsidise missionary medical
schools in China to abandon this method of instruction,
or at any rate to introduce more humane methods. In
response to this appeal your Society communicated with
the London Missionary Society, the Baptist Missionary
Society, the Wesleyan Methodist Missionary Society and
the Society for the Propagation of the Gospel, urging
strongly that experiments on animals for teaching pur-
poses should be abandoned in institutions professedly
Christian, emphasising the uselessness of Vivisection in the
instruction of students and the breach against the funda-
'mental teaching of Christ which it implied.

Similar appeals were sent from other organisations in this as well
as in other countries, including the United States, with the result
that the Acting Dean of the Medical School at Tsinanfu Christian
University communicated with the British Societies which supported
the University and expressed the desire of the University to act
in accordance with the wishes expressed in this country. The British
section of the Board of Governors, on which the various co-operating
Societies in this country are represented, unanimously decided to
ask the University to act in future in accordance with the English
Vivisection Act of 1876. It is understood that Christian Medical
Schools in China are willing, to this extent, to concede to the appeals
made, and though it is but a small step, it no doubt is an advance

on the method of conducting Vivisection experiments in classes 01'
Chinese students previously employed.

South African Protest Campaign Against Cruelty in
Film Production. The Durban Dumb Friends’ League,
afﬁliated to the Geneva International Bureau has for
several years past worked in close co-operation with your
Society. The South African Society reprinted your
Society’s publication on Cruelty in Films and distributed
them outside cinemas in Durban.

This was the beginning of a campaign throughout the
Union of S. Africa which has been largely directed by
Miss Schartau, who suggested that all the Animal Pro~
tection Societies within the Union, as well as the South
African National Council of Women and educational and
teachers’ organisations, should be invited, to join, and at
her suggestion the Sectional Committee on Humane
Treatment of Animals of the National Council of Women
of Great Britain placed the subject on the agenda at a
Committee Meeting, and subsequently asked its Council to
urge the South African Council to join.

199

 

 

 

 

  




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Miss Schartau, who was unable to be present to speak
on Cruel Films at the meeting of the N .C.W., sent a letter
explaining the need for organised opposition to ﬁlms
depicting scenes involving cruelty to animals and the
importance of women lending their active support to
such opposition. She appealed to the Committee to ask
the N .C.W. Headquarters to urge the S. African N.C.VV.
to lend. their aid to the campaign now being organised
within the Union. This letter was read at the Committee
Meeting and the proposal unanimously accepted.

Some Items of the Work—Representations were made
to Madame de Jonge, the Governor’s Wife in Java and
President of the Java S.P.C.A., asking her help in sup-
pressing great cruelty to fowls and other birds, of which
complaints have beensent to your Society by travellers.
She replied. that efforts to stop these cruelties were made
and that housewives were asked to refuse to buy fowls
or other birds from cruel merchants.

The League for theProtection of Animals in Calais
wrote in December stating that a Russian dog had been
forwarded unaccompanied by Messrs. Spratt from
England to Pisa. As the label had been accidentally
torn off, the dog had been put on board the Dover-Calais
boat instead of the Dover—Ostend boat. In Calais the
dog had been given food and water and then been
sent back to Dover to be sent to Pisa by the
Dover-Ostend—Bale route. The Secretary of the Calais
Society pointed out that dogs are badly looked after on
these long journeys and reach their destination in a
state of exhaustion. Representations were made to
Messrs. Spratts Ltd, who in their reply, dated December
15th, wrote that they had made arrangements in this par~
ticular instance for the dog to have food, water and
attention at Ostend, Bale and Chiasso and that during
35 years the ﬁrm had despatched thousands of dogs to
Continental destinations. In a later letter Messrs. Spratts
referred to the unfortunate error which had occurred in
regard to the particular dog mentioned and stated that
“ suitable notice ” of the matter had been taken with the
staff concerned and that a repetition was not likely to
occur.

All friends of dogs must, however, feel uneasy in re-
gard to these long journeys on which dogs are sent un-
accompanied.

200

 

 




 

From the international Bureau in Geneva a protest
was sent to the Government of Yugoslavia. against the
proposal to organise a Bullﬁght at Zagreb in. aid of the
unemployed. This protest was supported by the Yugo—
slavia Animal Protection Societies and the scheme was
abandoned.

The Duchess of Hamilton wrote to the British Ambas—
sador at Constantinople and begged him to use his
inﬂuence to ensure that the thousands of stray cats and
dogs ordered to be destroyed should be humanely killed.

From London and Geneva pro-tests were sent against
a pigeon shooting competition organised at Budapest.

The Animal Defence Society supported a: public pro-
test against the establishment of Zoological Gardens in
Leeds.

Publications and copies of Progress To-day were sent to
the library and reading-rooms of the All—Indian Youth
Association, Madura. A telegram of greetings and good
wishes was sent to the All-Indian Humanitarian Confer-
ence held in Bombay, October 21st to 23rd.

The Central Library of Peking, China, asked for a
number of your Society’s publications which were sent
and graciously acknowledged.

The Animal Welfare Society of South Africa, which
is afﬁliated to your Society. under the capable leadership
of Mrs. Kilpin, carried out successful work which re-
sulted in the passing of a Humane Slaughter Bill and a
Bill for the Protection of Wild Birds.

At the request of Mrs. Mordan, Secretary of the
Geneva International Bureau, Monsieur Longet, Director
of the Abattoir in Nyon, arranged a demonstration of
the humane method of slaughter in the Municipal
Abattoir in Lausanne. As a result of this demonstration
Mrs. Mordan received a letter from Dr. J. Guillerey,
Director of the Municipal Abattoir in Lausanne, in which
he informed her of his decision to adopt the new method
and expressed his appreciation of the two Humane Killers
presented by the Bureau.

The Bullﬁght in France. ’Your Society continued its
work against the Bullﬁght. On July 19th, 1934, the
French Government took action. A new Fiscal Decree
was promulgated, Article 38 of which stated that Bull—
ﬁght performances must henceforth pay a 30 per cent.
tax on the takings.

 

201

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

This did not mean that new taxes would be imposed; it meant
that the law of 1920 would be enforced, and that a long-standing
ﬁscal fraud, through which the commercial bullﬁghting organisations
were able to evade the law, would be suppressed. '

Under the pretext of allocations of money to charitable objects
the managers of the bullﬁghts were able successfully to evade
the tame d’Etat on the tickets of admission and enjOy a great
reduction on the tax for the poor. According to the new Decree
there would. be no exemption for the bullﬁght. The Decree was
not yet ratiﬁed by the French Parliament.

There was a great outcry against the Decree. Great demonstra-
tions, processions and meetings were organised in Nimes, Bordeaux,
Béziers, Bayonne, Marseilles, and other places associated with the
bullﬁght. “ Grand Gala” bullﬁght performances were arranged to
stimulate the opposition. Mayors, senators and deputies joined in
the attacks on the Government, and on M. Germain-Martin, Minister
of Finance.

The bullﬁghting interests gave great publicity to their declaration
that if the Decree was allowed to stand it would mean the complete
suppression of the bullﬁght in France in 1935, for the organisation
of bulllﬁghts would no longer be proﬁtable.

Unfortunately at the time of the publication of this
Report the Decree has been modiﬁed and bullﬁghts are
taking place as usual in Nimes, Marseilles, etc.

Letters and Articles in the Press—OH February 16th a letter
from the Duchess of Hamilton appeared in the Salisbury Times cf"
South Wilts Gazette (against diphtheria immunization). Contribu-
tions from her also appeared in the Queen of July 4th, the Oxford
Times (Jewish Method of Slaughter), in the Queen of August 8th
(article entitled Medieval Magic J" Modern Medicine), in the Sunday
Dispatch of November 11th (against wearing egrets), in The Times
on November 7th (“ The Cinema and Education ”) and in the
Catholic Herald on November 24th (in reply to an article entitled
“ This Animal Worship ”).

Christmas Sale.-—-A Christmas Sale was held at 15,
St. James’s Place for the. beneﬁt of your Society from
December 12th to 21st. Among those who sent gifts were
the Duchess of Hamilton, Lady Congreve, Mrs. Vessey,
Mrs. Pickering, Miss L. Askew, Miss M. Askew, Mrs. M. E.
Lawrie, Miss Macara, Miss E. Hogarth. Among those who
helped to sell during these days were the Duchess of
Hamilton, Miss Delius, Miss Nora Logan, Miss L. K.
Schartau, Mrs. Mordan, Miss B. Macara, Miss M. Macara,
Miss Eveline Faulkner, Mrs. St. John Eyre Smith, Mrs.
Spens Steuart, Miss Arbuthnot, Miss Webber, Miss
Staunton, Mr. Staunton, Miss H. Turner, Miss Lardelli.
Miss Reeve, Miss V. Matthews. A special Christmas card
was issued for your Society and sold for its beneﬁt. Miss
Schartau also procured a particularly attractive collection
of cards suitable for children, which were much appre-
ciated.

2’12

 

 

  
   




 

Removal to the New Premises. During January the
publications, records and furniture of the Society were
gradually removed to 15, St. J ames’s Place so as to disturb
the secretarial and propaganda work of the Society as little
as possible. By January 30th the removal had been com-
pleted and the new premises were crowded with stocks
of publications which had not yet found their proper place.
There were many days and half nights of sorting and
arranging, and ardent workers forgot their dinners in the
joy of labour for the Cause. By and by order was estab-
lished, repairs of the house were ﬁnished and the new
premises emerged complete with exhibition, lecture room.
library, storage quarters, etc.

Legacies—Miss E. de W. Grieve faithfully and gladly
gave all that she had to bestow to the work for the animals.
Enfeebled by illness and advancing years she yet found
strength to share in the Society’s activities. To the end
her thoughts were for the animals and to them she
bequeathed what, in the ultimate valuation of things, will
surely be accounted precious. Miss Peniston was another
devoted member of the Society whom. your Council hold in
grateful remembrance.

 

Correspondence, including the sending of publications
and posters was conducted during the year with almost
every European country, with the U.S.A., South America,
Canada, South Africa, New Zealand, India, Burmah, the
West Indies, East Indies, China, Japan, Australia.

Obituary.———The humanitarian cause was greatly bereaved
through the passing on March 2nd, 1934, of Mrs. Staunton,
wife of Mr. William Staunton. She was a greatly valued
and active member of the Executive Council. of the Animal
Defence and Anti-Vivisection Society.

As Miss Cassal, she. gave much time and devotion to the
cause of anti—vivisection. and showed conspicuous ability in
presenting the spiritual and ethical case against experi-
ments on animals, thus gaining many friends and
supporters for the movement.

In 1929 Miss Cassal came to Geneva helping for some
time in the work of the International. Bureau. After her
marriage in 1981 she continued her active interest in the
work, Mr. Staunton sharing his wife’s sympathies.

She was a woman of great charm, serene, gentle,
humorous. Wherever suffering called to her heart, whether
human or animal, she was ready to extend a helping hand.

It is with. deep regret that we. record the passing on
March 8th, of another staunch friend and helper,
lit-Colonel J. F. Donegan, C.B., LL.D., L.R.C.S., late

203

 

 

    

 

 
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
    
  
 
    
  
 

 
 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  
 
 
 
 
  
   
  
  
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

R.A.M.C. A man of wide knowledge, extensive medical
experience and a keen dislike of the pretences and false
promises of vivisectional Medicine, .Colonel Donegan
rendered great services to‘ the anti-viv1sect10n movement.

The death of the Rev. Basil Graham Bourchier is a great
loss to the cause of humanity to animals. For many years
he has pleaded for mercy and justice, and taken an active
interest in the movement. A vivid and original personality,
a magnetic preacher and a man of far-reaching inﬂuence,
he did not spare himself in work for unpopular causes. He
passed away on March 16th, 1934.

The Rev. B. G. Bourchier’s connection with the Animal
Defence and Anti-Vivisection Society, of which he was a
Vice-President, was close and extended through many
years. Speaking at the Annual Meeting of the Society in
November, 1928, he said: “ I am nowhere happier than in
my association with the Animal Defence Society. I am not
ashamed to say, openly and frankly, that I prefer this
Society to any other with which I am connected.”

Mr. Bourchier used to pray for suffering animals in the
services conducted by him in the church of St. J ude—on-the-
Hill, and on many occasions he fearlessly denounced
vivisection. When he became Rector of St. Anne’s, Soho,
he conducted special services on behalf of animals once a
month, and invited workers in the cause to address the con-
gregation. A litany was prepared in collaboration with the
President of the Society and used on these occasions. (From
obituary notices in Progress To-day of J anuary-March,
1934)

Your Council have regretfully to place on record the

' passing of yet another valued friend and generous sup-

porter of your Society. Sir Robert McAlpine, whose gentle
courtesy and sensitive responsiveness to the appeal of
suffering endeared him to all privileged to know him,
began life as a miner at the age of twelve and ended as
the revered chief of a large contracting ﬁrm, retaining
always his simple sincerity of character.

The F uture.—-—Your Council urge all members and friends
of the Society to maintain and extend their support and
interest in, the work. The difﬁculties and the struggle
are evident, but week by week and month by month there
are signs of change effected and. of something achieved.
All. who realise the immense importance of the cause,
not only to those fellow-creatures that we call animals,
but to the spiritual evolution of humanity, will, your
Council feel sure, continue to help.

20-1

 

 

  




 

List of Subscriptions and Donations
TO

The Animal Defence and

Anti - Vivisection Society

Contributions given between January lst, 1934, and

 

December 3181‘, 1934.

£ s. d.
Abbott, C. C., Esq. (s) 1 ’l U
—:\bbott Miss 11.‘ E. (s) 2 g. 0

Abbott, James R., Esq. (Gift from the late
Mrs. Abbott). (d) 2“) 5 1
Adams, Miss K“ (s) “.3 (3
Adams, Miss N. (s) :3 t")
Aikman, Miss J. (s) 10 6
Alberti d’Enno, Countess (Mono Fund) (d) 1 0 0
Alberti d’Enno, Countess (d) 1 0 0
Alberti d’Enno, Countess (s) 1 O 0
Alberti d’Enno, Countess (Mono Fund) (d) 1 0 0
Allen, Miss A. M. . (s) .1 1 0
Allen: Miss A. M. (s) 1 .1 0
Allen, Colonel Reginald Seymom (s) 5 (l (1
Allison, James, Esq. (s) 5 0
Anderson, Miss E. J. (s) 2 (3
Ander:son Miss H. M. (s) 2 (3
“ Andy” (per Mrs DaWson); (s) 5 0
Annesley, MIS. . (s) .1 1 0
Anon. (d) 2 6
Anon. - (d) 2 3 6
Anon. (d) 5 0
Anon. (From Some Dog Friends) (d) 30 10 (l
Anon. (d) 2 (5
Anon. (d) 3 (3
Anon. (d) 2 1 4
Anon. (An Offering) (d) 58 15 0
Anon. (d) 2 15
Anon. (A Friend) ((1) 100 (1 (‘1
Anon. (d) 10 10 0

 

Anon. (d) 2 15
Anon. (d) :1 o 11
Anon. (s) .1 (l (l

Anon. (s) 5 (l
Anon. (s) .10 0
Anon. (d) 2 7
Anon. (d), .10 6
Anon. ( A 11 1iei1d) .. .... (s) 1 (l (1)
Anon (A Friend of the Animals) (d) 3
Anon. . . .... ... .. (s) :2 6
Anon. ... . ,. . ... (d) 5 '0 0
Anon. (Christmas Appeal) (d) 1 (l 0
Anon. _... . (d) 5 0
Anon. (A ’l‘hank 0ﬂer1ng) (.d) 30 :0 .0

Anon. (Various Subscribeis per tlie Dueliess of
Hamilton) . . . . . . . ._.. . .. ( d) :6 6.) (l
Ansell, Miss .‘T. M. .(s) :10 (3

20:5

 

 

 

 




  
      
     

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

£ 8. d.

> AIIiss, Gemge, Esq. (fo1 the Gene1a Buieau) (d) 20 0 0

1 A11101d,M1‘iDs Hemy ... (s) 1 l 0

A1undel, Mrs C. (s) 10 O

Assheton, M1s. W. M. ... (s) ‘1 0 0

Astley- Rushton, M1s V. 14‘. (s) 10 0

Atty, Miss Glace C. (s) 10 0

Bagguley, Miss M. (s) 3 0

Baker, Miss Mary (d) 1 0 0

Barber, Miss E. (s) 2 6

",Barke1 Lady C. (s) 1 0 0

Bames, Lady (s) 1 1 - O

Ba1nes, Miss J. L (s) 10 0

Ba11ios, Ml.le E. de (s) 2 0 0

Ba1ton, Rev Bernard (d) 2 6

Barton, Mrs. B. W. (s) 10 6

Barton, Mrs. M. E. (for 1933 and 1934) (s) 5 0

Bates, Elliot (Youth Group). (s) 1 ()

Batten, Miss B. . (s) 10 0

Batten, Mrs. Mount (s) 4 4 0

Battus, M1s. E C .. . (s) 10 O

Bauoh Mrs. Catheiine (A LOVinf) Gift £10111 Nannie) (d) 7 5 2

Bax‘te1, Mrs. Fleming (d) 1 1 0

Bayley- -Worthington, Mrs. (s) '50 0 0

Bayly, Mrs. B. Beddow (s) 10 O

Baynes, M1s. (d) 5 0

Beauchamp, The Countess (s) 10 O

Beauchamp, The Countess (s) 10 O

Belden, Miss Susan (s) 10 0

Bell, Mrs. C. E. (s) 10 0

Bell, Mrs. E. M. (d) 5 0

Bendall, Miss E, A. (s) 1 6

Bennett, M. J., Esq. (s) 2 10 0

Bentley, Miss E. . .. (s) 2 6

Beltie of Thame, The Viscountess (s) 2 O (‘1

Best, The Hon. Margaret, O.B.14.. . (s) 10 0

Betteley, Miss A.E. (s) 2 6

Bevin, A. (Youth Group) (s) 1 _O

Bir,d Mrs. G (s) 10 O

Blacklock, Mrs. George (d) 1 1 (1

Blackwood, David William (Youth Gloup) (s) 1 0

Blad11orth, Kenneth T. ,..Esq (s) 1 1 0

Blake, Miss M. W. (s) 1 0 0

Blake, Miss M. 1V. (d) 1 0 0

, . Blamires, Mrs. M. E. (s) 1 1 0

?_ Blundell, Miss (s) 10 0

l , Boitel-Gill, Mrs. (s) 10 0

,. I Bond, Mrs. D. E. (d) 2 6

1 *3 ‘ Bond, Miss J. (s) 5 O

1 ii; Boreel D1 A... (d) 2 0 (1

i4 1 1 4 Bourne, Miss Adeline (d) 5 0

l l 1,, Bowman, Miss Evelyn R. (s) 1 1 0

:I ‘1 Boxall, Mrs. (s) 2 6

E, ‘1 Boyd, Miss M (s) 5 0

1: Boyd, Miss Ella (s) 1 o o

i: Boyes, MlS. (Rodeo Protest Meotmo) (d) ,5 0

{‘11 Boynton, Lady .. . (s) 10 0

j] 3} Braby, A. C, Esq. (s) 10 6

1? 'i Biaby, Mrs. A. C. (s) 10 6

. I .1 ‘ Bracewell, Miss D. F. (s) 5 0

‘ l 1 Bradley, Miss G. M. (s) 1 1 0
1 ml

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

Brain, Miss Mary E.

Brand, 0., Esq.
Brew-Mulhallen, Mrs.

Brice, Miss Ellen

Bridgman, Mrs.

Bridgman, Mrs

Brooke, Miss A. J. Stopford
Brooks, Miss F.

Brown, Miss Julia

Bruce, Miss Isabel

Bryan, Miss

Burgess, Mrs.

Burgess, Mrs. T. C.

Burton, Mrs. P. C.

Burton-J ones, Miss M.

Burton- Jones, Miss M

Bush, Miss Gertrude
Buxton, Miss Helen A. Wilmot
Buxton, Miss Helen A. Wilmot
Buxton, Miss Helen A.Wi1n1ot
Byron, Miss E. B.

Cains, Miss M. E.

Cains, Miss M. E.

Callender, Mrs.

Campbell, Lady

Campbell, Miss E. C.

Campbell, Mrs. E. G. L. S.”Muir11ead
Campbell, Mrs. E. H.
Campbell, Guy, Esq.

Campbell, Mrs. Guy

Campbell, John, Esq.

Cann, Mrs. M. E.

Capey, Miss 7E.

Capey, Miss P.

CareW-Gibson, Mrs.

Carof, Mlle. .

Carryer, C. B., Esq.

Carter, Mrs. Gertrude

Castle- Stewart, Lady

Chadwick, The Misses C. and E. D
Champ, Stephen, Esq. .
Chaplin, Miss C. L.

Charlwood, W. H., Esq. .
Charman, Mr. and Mrs. Tom
Charman, Mr. and Mrs. Tom
Charrington, H. S., Esq.

Chater, Miss C. (Rodeo Protest Meeting).

Chatterley, Miss Winifred (Youth Group)

Chester, Mrs. (for 1933 and 1934).
Chochoix, Mrs.
Clark, Mrs.

Clark, Mrs. .

Clarke, Miss M. E.

Clarke, Mrs. M. S. ..
Claughton, Miss Joan (Youth lroup)
Clayton, M1s M. A. .
Clemons, M1S.F1ank

Clifton- Allen, Mrs.

Clinch, Mrs.

Coates, Mrs.

I O
O
K]

1.1

Oil-4E3

UGO!

Hon

l—Jl—llr-Jl—H—‘l-‘l—‘l—i 1—41—1 r—xi—t 1—41-4 1—11—1
mmooooooooooo OOO‘IHOOOONONNOONQDOOU‘INN

1—1

‘ 1—1
MHHmwmmomooowHOH

1.1

H H
ooomor—lmomoo

.OOGOOOOQOOQOOOOO‘.®OOOOOOOOOOO OOOOCOOOGOGOOOGGGOOGQP‘

00363303503633“

A
\d

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Coe, The Misses .

Coleridge, The Hon. Phillis M.

Coles, Miss L. L.

Collection at Central Hall Meeting and sale of
literature . . . ..

Collection at Miss Olsen’s Meeting, May :9th

Collection at Central Hall Meeting, May 31st

Collection at Midhurst Meetino ..

Colley, Richard, Esq. ..

Compton, Miss Beatrice

Congreve, Celia, Lady.

Constance- -Jones, J., Esq

Conybeare, Mrs. .

Conybeare, Rear Admiral Crawford”

Cooke, Mrs. Edward .

Cooke, Miss W.

Cooper, The Hon. Mrs

Coote, Lady Eyre

Copeland, Miss M. G.

Coram, Miss L.

Cory, Lady (Rodeo Protest MeetinO)

Costigan, Mrs.

Coulthard, T., Esq

Cound, A. M., Esq.

Cound, A. M. ., Esq.

Cound, Mrs. A. M.

Cound, Mrs. A. M.

Couzens, Mrs.

Cowderoy, Miss L. M.

Cox, Mrs. E.

Crane, Mrs. Charles T.

Crawfurd, Mrs. E. M.

C..R C. ..

C...RC (Rodeo Protest Meeting)
C.R. C.

Crespigny, Mrs. Champion do
Crofton, Miss . .
Cross, Miss Victoria

Croucher, Mrs. Theo

Cumming, Miss A. P.

Cummins, Miss A.

Cunningham, Miss Maiy
Curtis, Capt. and Mrs. C. R.

Daniel, Miss M.

Daniell, Miss E.
D’Arcy, Miss Cecil
Daubin, Miss J. C.
Davidson, Mrs. Ethel E.
Davies, Mrs.
Davies, Mrs. Dixon
Davies, Miss G. .
Davies, Miss M. E A.
Dawson, Mrs
Dawson, Mrs. Janet
Dawson, Miss J.

Day, Miss

D.B‘-.S‘.

D.B'-..IS‘.-

10.3.8“.-

1.1

NHl—JDOEOOON

Ull—J

OOHl—INOHkCﬂ

1—1

1—1 H
HUIUIONONNOWOO

10
10
10
10
10
1
10
2
2
2
3

1.1
HOOOL‘YWUWNO

1—11—4
oooooom-

1—1 1—:
Nihwi—AUIOOOJUI

s—u—x

oom?‘

5—1
DAQOODOOOOOOOOOOO

OOKi

_A
‘V

COCOOOOOOOGQQOOOOOOOOOOOQ06030000000

 




     

     

Dean, The Misses M. and A.

Delius, Miss B. C. (Mono Fund)

Delius, Miss B. C.

Delius, Miss B. C.

Delpratt, Miss Josephine

Denton, Mrs. Charles St. John

Dering, Lady ..

Despencer- ”Robertson Miss

Despencei- R-obertson, Miss

Devereux, Mrs. Isabel

Dickeson, Mrs. E. ..

Dickinson, Ralph J.,- Esq.

Dickinson: Ralph J., Esq.

Dix, Mrs. .

Donegall, The Marchioness of”

Douglas, Mrs. W.
Douglas and Clydesdale, the Marquess of
Doubleday, M1s. H. A. ..
Doubleday, H. A., Esq

DOW, Mrs. E. .

Doyle, J., Esq.

Drakoules, Dr. Platon E. .

Drury, Mrs. A. S. Garling ..

Duff, Sir Arthur Grant

Duff, Lady
Dundonald, Lieut. -General The Earl of
Dunn, Mrs. E. M.

Eatheiley, Miss Edith (Anti- -Vivisection).
E,aton Mrs. F. M.
Eckbo, Mrs.

Eckblo, Mrs. (Mono Eund)

Eden, Mrs.

Edge, Miss M. E.

E,dgecombe Mrs Arthur

Edmunds, Dr. H. Tud01

Edwards, Mrs.

Edwards, Mrs.

Elliott, J. Dehane, Esq

Ellis, Miss A. M.

Elsmere, Bruce, Esq. ..

Enberg, Miss

Enberg, Miss

Escombe, Miss Edith

Estcourt- Oswald, Dr. A. (Rodeo P1otest Meeting)
Evans, Miss Frances

Eve1ard, Mrs ..

Eyre- Smith, Capt. St. J.

Fage, F., Esq.

Falbe, Miss Lucie ..
Fellowes, Mrs. Eleanor M.
Fellowes, Air-Commodore
Fenwick, Rev. and Mrs. R. .l.
Ferguson, IVOr, Esq. ..
Fergusson, Miss A. M.
Field, Miss P. M.

Finch, Mrs.

Fisher, Mrs. Chester
Fisher, Miss I.

HUM—l comma?“

1—11—1141-4

ou—n-u—t

l-J

CO

1.1
OOHOODDUIU‘CHL‘OOFPNO

Hub-4H
ta-qoooc

.l—i
NECK-3EOOCD

141—: 1—1
mooovmoooom

£31

1 0

r—H—H—t
ooo

cap—1141401

1.1
ON)

10
1 O

“DOOM-JCS

039536}305306033}CO-OOO‘OCOECOOOOCSOOOOP‘

OOQOCOOCOCG

 

 




 

 

 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Fitzroy, Lady Cecilia
Floersheim, Miss Ethel

Fonblanque,

Mrs. de

Forster, Mrs. B.

Foss, M1 s.
Foulger, Mis
F rancis, Mrs.

sGE

Frankland, E. ii, Esq

Frewer, Mis

s G.

F1y, Mr. and Mrs. F. J.
Fry, Miss M. C.

Fuller, Mrs.

Mary R.

Fuller—Maitland, Mrs. Ella

Gairdner, M

iss B.

Galletley, Miss ‘W.
Galsworthy, Mrs. A.
Gamson, Miss J.
Gamson, Miss Thelma
Garrett, Mrs.
Gaskell, Miss C. E.

Gentle, Mrs

German, Mrs. Hector

George, The

Misses Rose and Agnes

Gibbons, Mrs. D. G.

Gibbs, The

Misses

Gilchrist, James, Esq.

Gilmore, Mrs. W. E

Girdwood, Mrs.

Glasgow, Mrs. ..

Gleghorn, Martin, Esc1., AHMI. CHE
Glover, Miss F.

Goater, Miss

Godwin, Mrs. ,

W. ML

Goodacre, Mrs.

Gooderham,

Miss

Goodwin, Mis.
Gordon, A O. P, Esq
Gordon- -Whito, M1s. V.

Gosset, Miss
Gosset, Miss

C. A.
C. A.

Goulding, Mrs. . . .

Gough, Willi
Graeme, Mis

am, Esq.
3 Mary

Graham, Miss Madge

Graham, Miss Madge

Graham, Miss Madge.

Graham, Miss Madge (Copper. Collection).
Grahame, Mrs
Grainger, Mrs.

Greaves, Miss A.

Greenwood, Lady

Greenwood, Miss E.

Gregory, Miss Florence

GI estock, G.

B, Esq.

Grice, H R., Esq. (I11 Memmy of Mis. D. B.

Staunton)

Grifﬁths, Miss L.

GI ouitch, M
Gurney, Mrs.

 

me. Slavko

  

DJ

Hl—lwl—‘H

l—IH l—H—‘l—d,
OOOIOOOE”

1.1
l—‘NNOl—JNN

1.1

l—il—l 1—: 1—: l—ll—ll—‘l—l 1—:
GOOMOHOO‘IOIOOOOONOUINHLONOEO00mm

10

1—1
COKE-O COMO

NI»—

10

    

oommomaoommoo?

OO¢>O©O§OOOOOOO§OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO®O®O®C§O®3®¢3

QOCDCv

 

 

 

 




 

 

Gurney, Miss Agnes
Gurney, S., Esq.
Gyles, Miss Althea

II. & H.
Hadﬁeld, Lady F. 13., C.B.E.
Haley, Mrs. F. J. ..
Haley, Mrs. F. J.

Hall, Miss Mary

Hallam, E. 0., Esq. ..
Halliday, Mrs. Constance
Halliday, Mrs Constance
Halliday, Miss

Hall— Smith, M1s. M. E
Hamilton, M1s

Hamilton: The Duchess of (In Memory of the Rev.

B. G. Bourchier)
Hammond, Miss L. M.
Harding, Miss E.

Harley, Miss Agnes
Harradine, Miss E, B.
Harrison, Charles W., Esq.
Harrison, Miss I.
Harrison, Miss I.

Harrison, Miss I.

Ha11ison, T. 0., Esq.

Hart, Miss Cmisande

Har:t Mrs. Maud M.

Hart, S. Hopgood, Esq.
Hart, M1s. S. Hopgoodﬂ
Haslam, Miss E. .
Hatley, A1thur, Esq.
Hawker, Miss Bessie E G.
Hawke1 Miss Bessie E. G (00.111 Ho1se T1aﬂic)
Hawkins, Miss A .
Hawkins, Miss Emily II.
Hawkins, Miss Helga
Haybittle, Miss N. M.
Hayes, Miss F. B.

Hayhow, Mrs.

Hayhow, Mrs. .
Heap, Miss, and two f1ie11ds
Heath, M1s.

Heath, Mrs.

Heath, Mrs K.

Heathcote, Lt. ~.Com G. ”C.
Heaton- Armstrong, Mrs. Ethel
Heginbottom H., Esq. .
Helliar, H. R., Esq.
Henshaw, Miss Pollie
Hibbard, Miss Elsie

Hickson, Miss A.

Higgins, Mrs. S. F. ..
Higgins, Miss Agatha

Hill, Lady Frances M
Hipwell, Lewis W., Esq.
Hirst, Mrs.

Hoare, Mrs. Oliver
Hodgkin, C. E. ,.Esq
Hodkinson, Miss V.

P3.

1
‘4

141-119

H1401

1—11—1

m

Cit 1-3 L; .

1.1
[:3 <1

[‘3

1.4

HI—J
owomoonow

.3 C1 U! Q

[.3 L3

1—: 1—1

1—1
['0'1—‘0O‘1CJIOI—‘F-‘CJ‘IOOIO

1—1

1-4 1—:

1—11—1
ommqumoomwowwoo

H Hi—li—l
MHONOOO

0

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Hogg,M1s.Gert1ude ..

Holcombe, Mrs. (Slaughtei Ref011111
Holden, Mrs.R .. A. . .. ..
Holliday. Mrs.

Holmes, Mrs. A. Beresford

Hoopes, Mrs. E. 'I‘rim'hln

Here, Mrs. Laura

Horsfall, Miss G.

1Iughes,1 Miss Florence

Hughes, Miss Florence (In Me11101ian1,C.’l‘.1[.)
Hughes, H., Esq.

Humane Education Society, Manchestei
Hume, Mrs Douglas
Hunter, Sir George, K..BE., D..Sc
Hurst, Miss L. .

Ismay, Mrs. Muriel

Jackson, Mrs.
Jahn, M18. L.
James, Miss ..
Jannamay, John (Youth (11111111)
leffcock, Miss .. .
Jenkins, Mis. A. M.

Jenman, Miss

Jessop, Miss K. H.

Jill (per Mrs. McMichael)
Jilma, Princess Asfa

John, J. Malcolm, Esq.

Johns, A. E., Esq.

Johnson, Miss Evelyn

Jones, Miss

Jones, Mrs. M. H.

Jones, Mrs. M. H.

Joynt, Dr. N. L.

Julian, Mrs. W. A.

J...WC .

Karpoff, Mme. Ve1a

Karpoif, Mme. Vera (for Inteinational “0111}

Kearne, The Misses L. and B.
Keightley, Mrs Stratford
K.,elham Mrs.

Kemball, General S11 G. V.
Kempe, Miss M. H. H.

Kensit, Mrs.

KenyoLn, Miss Sybil (Youth Group)
Key,L ady

Kilsby, Mrs.

King, Miss Amy

King, Mrs. Edith

Kingsbury, Mrs. Gerald
Kingsford, Mrs. E. B
Kirkpatrick, Miss Ida . .
Knight, Mrs. (In Memmy of W. H mK..)
Knight, Miss Lilian

Knight, Miss M.

Knopp, 0., Esq. . .
Knowles, Mrs. Andrew

Lachlan, Miss ..
Lardelli, Miss (Collecting Box)

212

o: towmmmi—‘m :1

U!

141-41414

1—1

1-414

1...:
arsoowmco o NOHNQCR

1-4 HE—JL—l
[900013-4000

[1—4

H 1—1

1—1 .
HLOOOL‘I[‘3'rF-CDO'ONOHEOE‘OHEOOUIOLOtOOOO

1.1

[—1

(ON)

OOOOOCEOOOOQG

OOOCEQOOC‘JOOCOCC

omoooooammcoc

.‘K
V

(DC:

 




 

Lardelli, Miss

LaIge, Mrs. John

Lath'am, M1s. John ..

Latour, Countess Vincent de Baillet

Latour, Countess Vincent de Baillet

Latoul, Countess Vincent de Raillet

Latour, Countess Vincent de Baillet

Lawrence, Mrs. G. F.

Law1ence, IN. F. Esq. and M1s.

Lawrie, Miss G. .

Lear, Mrs. .

Lear, Miss Lilian C...

Legg, Miss M. G. (Old H01 so:'1‘raﬁic)

Leith, Miss A. A.

Lewis, M1s. E.

Light, Miss ..

Lind- af— Hageby, Miss

Lind- af- Hageby, Miss (Income on Residue of Estate
of the late Mrs. Harford Adlam)

Lind- af— -Hageby, Miss (Income on Residue of Estate
of the late Mrs. Harford Adlam)

Lindsay, Miss R. (Rodeo Protest Meeting)

Little, J. M., Esq.

Littleton ~Wheeler, M1s. R.

Llewhellin, Miss 0.

Lloyd, Miss E. H. R.

Logan, Miss Nora

Logan, Miss Nora (Mono Fund)

LoriO, Miss C. L. .

Luck, Miss

Luck, Mrs. A.

Lumb, Lady

Lupton,M1s.A1nold

Lupton, Mrs. Mary C.

Lushington, Major Sir A1tl1111

Lushington, Major Sir Arthui (£01 Work 1501 Dogs)

Lymn, Paul (Youth Group)

Maberly, G. C., Esq. ..

McAlp‘ine, Sir Robert

Macaia, Miss Beth

Macara, Miss Margaret

McCulloch, Stewart J. Esq.

MacDonald, A. D., Esq.

MacDonald: A. D., Esq.

MacDonnell, Miss L. (I11 Memory of Capt. R.
MacDonnell)

McInerny, Miss A.

Mackintosh, Miss E.

Mackintosh, Miss E.

Mackintosh, Miss E.

Mackintosh, Miss E.

Macklin, Mrs. Romer

McMichael, Mrs. V.

McMichae], Mrs. ‘V.

Macnaghten, Mrs.

Macnaghten. Miss L.

Macombei M1s. H. L.J

MacPherson, MissL

Mactaggart, Mrs.

Madge, Mrs.~ ~11 ,.. .... .....

213

(S)
(S)
(d)
(d)
(d)
(d)
(d)
(S)
(9‘)
(8.)
(S)
(s)
(d)
(S)
(s)
(d)
(H)

(11)
((l)
(d)

(d)

(d)
( s)

(S)
(d)
(_ S)
( S)
t d)
(d)
<1)

('1)

(d)
(d)
(d)
(d)
(s)
(s)
(s)
(s)
(s)
(s)
(s)
(s)

(S)

r—— 1‘3?»

HHHNHO

/- .
Vi

141-413

100

U!

:n [O

oooomfﬁ

, :—1 1—:
msciamcwocccom

é—L

‘u-J ‘i

A
v

1.1

—-l 1-4
causes: i—JLimbsDHOHL-SCEHtOOtO'CLW

ﬁzz—1;.

l—l

1-1—1 1—1.4 1—1 1—:
qomooacoooosko-ns-o

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Magrane, Mis.

Maides, Mrs...

Makepeace, Mrs Colyerﬂ
Malcolm, Evelyn Lady

Malleson, Mrs. ..

Mallet, Miss M. F.
Malone Miss Margarite (Youth Group)
hianchester, IIer (}race the IDuchess of
Manning, Miss .. .
Marchant, Mrs. 1e

Margesson, Miss I. .

Marlow (Bucks) Kindness to Animals Society
hiarras, Airs. Liovaray

hiaitin., lﬂdyvard., lEsq..

Masham, Miss E,

hiason., hiiss (3. .

Massy, Colonel Godfry-

Maule, Miss Hilda

Mavins, Miss

Mayhew, Miss P.

Mayo, M1s. C. A.

Meadows, Miss

Mellia1, Miss M. Foster

Mendes, J. T., Esq.

hierry, hirs. ..

Michael, a Dog, collected by ::(per Miss Graham)
Middleton, A1thur, Esq ..
Mildmay, M1s. St. John

Miles, Mr. Derwent M.

Miles, Mrs. D. M. .

Miller, M1s. B. M. ..

hiﬂler, ldiss I). It (£01 i1935)
Mille1, Edwin R. 8., Esq, DUO
Miller, Miss K.

Miller, 0. T, Esq.

Mills, Capt. C,

Mills, Miss Mavis .
Milman, Miss Rosalind

Mitchell, Mrs. C. J.

Mitchell, Mrs. C. J.
Mochrum, Lady Dunbar of (Rodeo Protest Meeting)
Moleyns, The Hon. A. F. de . .
Monette (Mono Fund)

Moore, Miss ..

Moore, Rev. C. A. G
Moorhouse, Miss Ethel

Mo1dan, M1s. M. E.

Mordan, Mls. M. E.
hi0rdan,hi1s. hi. I]. (Liono Thumb
M-mm,MmIE.A. .u
hio11is, hiiss lEthel

\iorris, Miss Ma1yE

Mosscockle, Mrs.

Mulleneux- Grayson, Lady
Mulleneux G1 ayson, Lady
Munsey, Miss B. C.

Munsey, Miss J.

Murgatroyd, Miss

Nelson, Miss K.
Nettlefold, Mrs, A.

1—4 I—H—H—l I—H—ﬂ
OOMQNONMON$UHHOHOOOHNOOHng

1—1 1-1 1-4 1—: l—H—ll—H—H—l
OOOONNLOU‘ONOOOOO

H

‘ H
mo: ommtswoi—Iwoooooomoo

oo omaooocmmOOOOCmooooommmmoomoooooSomodnoozoomooooooooooczmOOCBOP"

 

 




 

NeWby-Fraser, Miss Mary
Newman, B}. M., Esq.
Newton, Mrs.

Noble, l\/I1s. Philip

No1ris, Mis. ..

Northbrook, The Countess of”
Nutting, Miss M. S.

O’Leary, Miss K.
Olsen, Miss Joan
O1red, Mrs. ..
Osbo1n, Miss D. E.

Osborn, Miss D. E. .(:In Memory of Mr. S.

Osb01n)
Osborne, Miss E. L

Osborne, Miss E. L. (Eodeo .Protest Meeting)

O’Sullivan, Miss

O’ Sullivan, Mrs.

Ottino, M1s. ..
Outl111aite, Miss 11. F.

Page, W. H., Esq.

Paget, Sir Ralph

Paine, Mrs, Lewis

Parke, W., Esq.

Parker, Miss

Parker, Mrs.

Parker, J. E., Esq.
Parsons, Mrs. A. W.

Pat (per Miss Henderson)
Pease, Paul J., Esq.
Penson, Lady .
Pelceval, Miss Caroline Mus.B.
Peikins, Miss .
Perkins, Mrs. E. A.

Perry, Mrs.

Petit, Mlle.

Philp, Miss N. F.

Philp, Miss N. F.

Pickard, Mrs.

Pickering, Miss E.

Pigott, Miss Esmé

Pilcher, Mrs. David

Plaister, Miss D. M. . ..
Plymouth, The Dowager Countess of
Porter, Miss M.
Pott, Miss Joan O.

Pownall, Lady

Pratchett, Miss

Preston, Mrs.
Prettejohn, Mrs Edith
P1ettejohn, Mrs. Edith
Prichard, B. (3., Esq.
Prickard, Miss E.

Prince, Miss M.

Pritchett, Miss A.

Pullar, Mrs. A. E.

Quicke, Miss Eidith Penrose
Quinton, Mrs. A. S. .

LYN-48°

l—lNCﬂ

141—101

l—JEO

[Oi-1H

E“

OHNOK‘INH

1.1

OOOOOOOPJ

©0300

COO

0
(i
0

Omooooaammcmoooomomaooooomoomommoooo 9

07.0

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Raffles, M1s. ..-
Rake, Mrs. Aubrey
Rake, Mrs. Aubrey
Ramsden, Miss C.
Ramsden, William, Esq.
Rateliﬂ'e, Miss Ida
Ratcliffe, Miss Ida
Rawlins, Miss 13.
Reckitt, Miss Juliet

’Reddall, H, L., Esq.
‘R-eddall, H, L., Esq.
Rees, Miss Alys
Reeve, Miss

Reeves, Mrs. ..
'Reynolds, Lady
'Reynolds, Mrs. H.
”Richards, Miss L.
’Richardson, Anne . .
’Richardson, Miss E. C.

Ridley, Mrs. Gerald A.
Ridley, Gerard A., Esq.

‘Rigg, Miss Elsie

’Riley, Mrs...

l'RJiley, Miss E D.

ZRoberts, Mrs. E. Morlell (Slaughte1 Refoun)
.Roberts: F. W., Esq. (S1auohte1 Reform).
iRoberts, Mrs. H.
ZRobinson, Mrs. C. H.

iRlobinson, C. H., Esq..

iR‘olleston, Miss D. .

iRowan- Robinson, Rev. L. 0., MHB, CihB.

Rose, Mrs. A.

'Rosenbaum, J. M. Esq.

ZRosser, Miss Catherine .
Rowland, the late Miss Helen, pei Miss E.Eathe11ey

(Anti- Vivisection)

Rowland, Miss M.

Rowlatt, Miss Lucy
Rowley, Miss S. V. A.
Rudge, Miss Violet A.
Russell Miss Florence
Ryder, Miss E.
Ryves, Miss E.

Sad1e1,E1dred, Esq (Colleetino Box)
Saﬁord, Miss Stella, OHBE.

St. Aubyn, Miss

Sampson, Miss C.

Sampson, Miss C.

Sampson, Miss C.

Sanders, Miss

Sanders, Miss

Sandford, William, Esq..

Sangster, A. E. Esq.

Savile, The Lady Mary

Savile, The Lady Mary
Savile, The Lady Sa1a11.fu(f01 1933 and 1934)
Saywood, Miss . .
Schartau, Miss L. K.

Scott, Miss H. Russell

 

5

  
    
  

10

1‘2.

1.1
cm

[CNN—1

1.1

GLOOC‘ECEOECUI

1.1

UVOLOOOHEOL‘ODONE-SCRDOCCL‘J

 

ccc-cocoocamceaczooczoooog

 

A
v

Gaoommcccccc

 

CECZOOCECICZO

 

CIOCECOO

6
('1
( 3

(l
(l

   




 

Scottish Society for the Prevention of Vivisecti‘on
(for Anti-Vivisection work) .

Scriven, Miss R.

Senior, John, Esq.

Seni01, John, Esq.

Seux, Mme. .

Shadwell, Rev. Felix ..

Shaftesbmy, The Countess of (Slaughte1 Ref 01 111)

Shaw, Mrs. Cecil . .

Shaw, Miss Gwendoline K.

Shore, Mrs. Oﬁey

Sibree, Miss

Sidney- -Smith, Mrs. P.

Sidney- Smith, Miss P.

Sidney- Smith, Miss P. (Collecting Boxes)

Simner, Capt. R. D., RWNRRetd.

Simner, Mrs Gordon

Simpkins, D. A., Esq.

Simpson, Miss Price

Sinclair, Mrs. M.

Sinnickson, Mrs. Charles

Sladen, Mrs. Sydney

Sleeman, Colonel J.

Small, Mrs. (In Memmy of Spaikie)

Small, Mrs J...

Smith, The Misses

Smith, Miss Daisy .

Smith, Miss E. F. H. (Slaughter Refonn)

Smith, Mrs. F. Yorke

Smith, Miss L. Bullen

Smith, R. McIntyre, Esq.

Smithe, W. A, Esq

Smithe, W. A., Esq.

Smithe, W. A. Esq. (for Inte1national Humani-
tarian Geneva Bureau) . .. .

Smyth, Mrs. (Slaughter. Reform)

Snow, Mrs. ..

Somers, Mrs. ..

So1rell, Miss Monica (Youth Group)

Spence, Miss L

Spiers, Mrs. Victor ..

Spring- Rice, Commande1 The Hon. ]41:1m is

Swtallard Miss H. .

Stanford, H. Daly, Esq.

Stansfeld, Miss J. E.

Staunton, William, Esq.

Staunton, William, Esq.

Stedman, T. Gurney, Esq. .

Stephenson, Miss Elizabeth (Rodeo Protest
Meeting) .

Stephenson, Mrs Hamilton

Steuait, Mrs. D. Spens

Stevens, Mrs. R. E. ..

Steyno1, Morley, Esq...

Stibbs, Mrs. (Slaughter Reform)

Stone, Mrs. E. H. (Collection among the chi]d1en
at Osborn Place Cripple School f01ogift of
Dog Licence).

Stone, Miss Muriel E.

Stout, Mrs. E. H. (Collection for Slaughtei Reform)

217

Cli—J

10

t3
5:1

n
v

wt

1.1 CI

0‘! Cl

10

1.1
onComHmcCo

1.1
OOOE

‘1-4 [‘0 [O O

a
v

C5! 1‘

ONK‘I

OOOCEC

-CO‘.C§Q

C3616)

 

.~ ;.M w“ "$.1-

 

 

 




   
    

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

 

 

  

 
 
 
  
   
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Strange, Miss V. L.
Strode, Miss A. C.
Stuart, Miss Nancy

Stutﬁeld, R. Esq.

Sullivan, Miss E. A.

Sullivan Mrs. F.

Summerson, Capt. S.

Summerson, Mrs. .

Sumner Trust, The Sir John
Swinburne, Mrs

Talyarkan, The Khan Darius
Targett-Adams, Mrs. Irene
Tatton, Miss
Taylor, A. H., Esq.
Taylor, A. H., Esq. (Rodeo Piotest Meeting)
Tew, Miss H.

Thesiger, Mrs.

Thesiger, Mrs.

Thomas, Mrs.

Thomas, Mrs Evan .
Thomas, Dr. G. N. W.
Thomas, Miss Priscilla Ann (Youth Gnoup)
Thomson, Mrs. Hedley .
Thorn, Miss M. S. ..
Thurgood, Miss ..
Thwaites, Miss L. M.
Tideswell, Miss S. W.
Timewell, Mrs.
Todd, Mrs. C. M.
Todd-Naylor, Miss

Todd —,Naylor Miss

Toller, Mrs Wallis

Topham, Mrs. Alfred (Eichibition Car avan Work)

Trachy, Mrs.

Tregear, Miss Mary (Youth G1oup)m

Tubbs, Miss M. A.

Turner, Miss Helen (In Memory of Pudge)
Turner, Miss .
Turner, J. W. Esq.

Turnour, Mrs. Gerard

Tyson, Mrs.

Tyson, Miss Frances L.

Unwin, Mrs. Cobden
Upton, Miss

Vaudrey, Mrs. .
Vincent, Miss A. M. . .

VVadham, Mrs.

Walker, Miss ..

Walker, Mrs. W. F.

Wall, Miss Phyllis V. ..
Waller, Rev. C. F.

Ward, Miss E. G.

Ward, Miss Edith
Ward, Major-General, H..DO"
Ward, Miss M. . ..
Warden, Mrs. ...

Warden, Miss Bryda (Youth Group)

218

1.1
OUll—l

1-11—4
OONUH-I

H l—1
OH-UHOHN[OHHUINL\D

1—11—1

01
5.1
ONOU‘IOOI—‘OOl—l

1.1

1...:
010 0]

1-41—1
oo

10
10
10
12

10
10
10

   
 

oommaoococP

OOCEOOOOOOOOOOOOOOQQOOOOOOOO‘AOOOCO

A
‘1.

  
 
 

  

 




 

 

£ s. d.
Wa1den, Charlie (Youth Group) (s) 1 0
Walden: Miss Elizabeth (Youth Group) (s) l O
Warden: Hamish (Youth Group) (s) 1 O
Wareing, Miss Vera L. . (s) 5 0
Webb, Miss . (s) 10 6
Webb E., Esq. (s) 5 0
Webb, W. H., Esq. (s) 10 0
Weir, Mrs. E. A. (d) 1 0
Welland, Miss (s) 10 0
Wells, Miss Eileen 1 (d) 3 6
Went, Douglas, Esq. (s) 1 1 0
Western, Miss M. K. ... (d) 2 3
Wetenhall, Miss F. M. (s) 5 0
Whalley, Miss M. (s) 5 0
Wharton, Mrs. Edon (s) 10 0
Wheatman, Miss . (s) 2 6
Whitbread, Miss D01a M. (s) 5 0
1White, Mrs. E. . (s) 10 0
White, Mrs E. L. (s) 10 0
White, Miss Marjorie (Youth Group) (s) 1 0
Wl1itw,orth Mrs... (s) 2 6
Widdicombe, Mrs. (d) 2 6
Wilbraham, Miss . (s) 2 6
Williams,1 Miss A. H. (s) 2 6
Willifer, Mrs. (s) 10 0
Wilson, Lady (In Memory of Nannie) (d) 10 6
Wilson, David, Esq., J. P. (s) 5 0
Wilson, Rev. David, M..A (s) 2 6
Winton, General de (s) 10 0
Wolff, Mrs. de (s) 5 5 0
Wood, Mrs. J. L (Humane Slauglitei) (s) 5 5 0
Woodcock, Mrs. (s) 10 6
Woodcock, Major A. B. (s) 10 6
Worley, Miss N. (d) 5 0
W1igrht, Miss A. C G. (In Memory of Miss F. M.

Wright) . . . (d) 25 O 0
Wright, Miss Alice Morgan (s) 5 0
Wright, Miss Cha1lotte (s) 1 0 0
Wright, Miss E. Keith (s) 10 0
Wright, Miss Helen (s) 5 O
Yost, Miss Edith Y. (s) 2 6
Youde, Mr and Mrs. Thomas (s) 1 O 0
Young, Miss (s) 2 6
Zabell-Chalmers, Mrs. (s) 10 0
7.11,bcll-Chal111e11s, Mrs. (s) 1 1 0

£1,467 1 2

219

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The Animal Defence and Anti-Vivisection Society.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Receipts and Payments Account for the Year ended 3 lst December, 1934.

 

 

RECEIPTS.

To Balance from last Account ..
,, Subscriptions, Donations and Collections 1,560
Less: Interest refunded as Donations
(see Contra) . . 93

The Duke and Duchess of Hamilton:
Special Donation to be used for
Removal Expenses

Humanitarian Reserve Fund. Donation

Donation for Activities of Geneva
International Humanitarian
Bureau

Legacies:

The late Miss Peniston
,, E. (10 Wolf Grieve

Sundry Sales .

Interest on Deposit Account

Proceeds of Christmas Bazaar

6
5

2 .

0

£

 

 

S.

£5,540 7

d.

2

1

i

 

By Publications,

U

PAYMENTS.

Printing and Stationery

Publicity Campaign, Advertisements,
Meetings, Lectures and Demon-
strations .

Removal from 35, Old Bond Street,
to 15, St. James’s Place:
Transport, Repairs, Renewals and
Installation . . . ..

Rates and Taxes

Interest in respect of 15, St. James’s
Place . .
Less: Amount Refunded as
Donations (see Contra)

Lighting and Heating, Oﬂice Expenses
and Humane Exhibition . .
Salaries and Clerical Assistance
Postages and Telephone
Geneva International Bureau:
Printing, Propaganda, Demon-
strations, Salaries, Rent, Exhibits,
etc. . .
Bank Charges and Audit Fee
Donation to Chinese Branch
A.D.A.V.S. . .. . ..
Caravan Expenses
Humane Slaughter Appliances
Dilapidations paid on vacating
Old Bond Street
Balance at 31st December 1934

B. C. DELIUS, Hon. Treaaurer.

OH ONL-

 

 

We have examined the above Receipts and Payments Account with the

CABLISLE HOUSE
8, SOUTHAMPTON ROW, LONDON,

25th June, 1935

\V.C.1.

 

 

 

books and papers relating thereto and found it to. be Correct.

TIIOMPSON LEVETT & 00.,
Chartered Accouwntants

 

Auditors.

 




Auditors.

J

Chartered V ddcountants

25th June, 1935.

 

 

SOME PUBLICATIONS of-

the ANIMAL

DEFENCE and ANTI-VIVISECTION SOCIETY.

A Survey of the Case Against Vivisection.
A Non-Technical Exposition in Especial
Relation to the Principal Arguments in
Support of the Practice, with a Preface
lyGeorge F. C. Searle, scar, F.R.5.,
Umyersrty Lecturer in Experimental Physics.
University of Cambridge. Signatories: M.
Beddow Bayly, M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P., John
H. Clarke, M.D., Lt.-Colonel J. F. Donegan,
C.B., late R.A.M.C., H. Tudor Edmunds,
M.B., B.S., M.R.c.s., L.R.C.P., J. Dodson
Hessey, M,R.C.s., L.R.C.P., Henry Love,
BA, M.B., L.R.C.S.I., Agnes Estcourt-
Oswald, M.B., D.O.M.s., D.P.H., C. V Pink,
M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P., W. H. White, M.R.C.S.,
L.R.C.P., H. Fergie Woods, M.D., M.R.c.s.,
L.R.c.P., Noel Cassal, A.R.c.s., B.sc.,
Gerald C. Maberly, M.A., LL.B., Basil
Graham Bourchier, M.A., R. LL. Langford-
James, D.D., Nina Hamilton and Brandon,
L. Lmd-af—Hageby. Price 3d.

Ecrasez l’Inféme ! ” An exposure of the
mind, methods, pretences and failure of the
modern Inquisition, by L. LIND-AF-HAGEBY.

«
A

113 pages. Price 2/6, cloth bOund; Paper
Cover, 2/—.
The New Search for Health; Medical

Theories and the Danger of their Enforce-
ment. A Lecture given at Konserthuset,
Stockholm, on April 25th, 1930, by Miss
Lmd-af—Hageby. Price 3d.

The Failures and Fallacies of Orthodox
Methane, by L. LIND-AF-HAGEBY. Price 2d.

The Science of Health: The Defence of
Humanity, by L. LIND-AF-HAGEBY. Price 2d.

Your Personal Health. Does the Failure of
ViVisection Laboratory Research Concern
ou .7. The Need of Medical Liberty and
Organisation of the Real Science of Healing.
(Extract from Ecrarez l’InfcimeD, by .
LIND-AF-HAGEBY. Price 2d.

What. is Vivisection ? Price 6d. per 100
copies.

In the Company of Anti-Vivisectionists.
Price 6d. per 100 copies.

The Basic Principles of Health and Disease,
by. M. BEDDOW BAYLY, M.R.c.s., L.R.C.P.
Price 2d.

Homoeopathy and Vivisection, by E. PETRIF,
Horus, M.D. Price 2d.

Malaria, Scourge of the Human Race.- By
13%. BEDDOW BAYLY, M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P. Price

Vivisection and Fundamental Principles, by

. Miller. Price 1d.

The “Schick” Inoculation for Immunisa-
tion Against Diphtheria, by M. BEDDOW
BAYLY, M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P. Price 4d.

The .Schick Test and Immunisation Against
'Dlphthetia, by LILY LOAT. Reprinted from
[be Anti-Vivisection and Humanitarian
Review. Price 1d.

A Reyiew and Refutation of the Principal
Claims Made on Behalf of Vivisectional
Research, by JOHN SHAW M.D., (London)
Reprinted .from The Anti-Vivirection and
Humanitarian Review. 1927. Price 2d.

The Moral Aspect of Vivisection, by
G. N. THOMAS, M.B., CH.B. (Ed.).

Barrister-.at—Law. Reprinted from Tbe

Anti-Vzwrection and Humanitarian Review.

Price 1d.

 

__.__._______.——-——

Is Vivisection Morally Justiﬁable and Scien—
tiﬁcally Necessary ? A Debate between the
Catholic Students’ Union of the University
of Edinburgh and the Scottish Society fm
the Prevention of Vivisection. Price 3d.

The Moral and Scientiﬁc Foundations of
the Anti-Vivisection Movement. (I
address by Miss LIND-AF-HAGEBY delivered
in Geneva. Price 2d.

A Public Debate between W. D. Halli—
button, Esq., NI.D., P.R.S., Professor of
Physiology at King’s College, London,
and Miss Lind-af-Hageby. Held at the

Portman Rooms on May 16th, 1907.
Price 6d.
Why Vivisection Experiments on Dogs

should be Prohibited. An address with
special reference to the conviction in 1926
of a dog-stealer who delivered dogs to

University College Laboratory, given by
Miss LIND-AF-HAGEBY. Price

Tyranny of an Ancient Superstition.
Vaccination causes disease and death,

by L. LIND-AF-HAGEBY. Reprinted. from
The Anti-Vivisection and Humanitarian
Rewew. Illustrated. Price 3d.

Dr. Sergius Voronoﬁ and Rejuvenation by
Means of Grafting Monkey Glands, by M.
BEDDOW BAYLY, M.R.c.s., L.R.C.P. Prlce 2d.

Vivisection Experiments on the Teeth and

Jaws of Animals, by W. \VEYENETH,

M.D Price 2d. '
Tetanus and Anti-Toxin, by_ M. BEDDOW

BAYLY, M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P. Price 1d.

The Germ Theory of Disease and Serum-
Therapy, by M. BEDDOW BAYLY, M.R.C.S.,
I..R.C.P. Price 2d.

The Futility of Experiments on_ Animals,
by H. FERGIE WOODS, M.D. Price 2d.
Why I am an Anti-Vivisection .Doctor, by

J. STENSON HOOKER, M.D. Price 2d.

Desecration, by THE DUCHESS OF HAMILTON.

Poison Gas Experiments on Living Animals.
The Horrors of Salisbury Plain. Price 2d.

Vivisection in the Light of Philosophy and
Modern Science, by .M. BEDDOW BAYLY,
M.R.c.s., L.R.C.P. Price 3d.

Vaccine Lymph Produced Through _Vivi-
section of Calveshby LILY LOAT. Reprinted
from T be Anti-Vivisection and Humanitarian

Review. Free.

Vivisection and Medical Students, by
L. LIND-AF-HAGEBY. Price 3d.
Vivisection: Experiments_ before Students.

Price 6d. per 100 copies.
The Anti-Vivisection Libel Action (1913).

Reports and . comments in the Press.
Pamphlet. Price 3d.
Reservation Memorandum to the Royal
Commission on ivisection, by DR

GEORGE WILSON. Reprinted by permission
of Dr.‘ George Wilson and His Majesty's

Stationery Ofﬁce. 96 pages. Free.
More Criminal Medicine: A Report of
Callous Experiments on Children, by

L. LIND-AFaHAGEBY and N. HAMILTON AND
BRANDON.

 

 

 

.
’é?“”£rr¢ Yaw—Saar EM"

 




 

 

 

 

  
    
  
 
  
  
  
  
   
 
  
  
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

PUBLICATIONS .-——- ( (70-72 tinned.)

Evidence Before the Royal Commission on
Vivisection given by Miss Lind-af-Hageby
on May lst and June 5th, 1907. With
appendices relating to her controversy with
the Vivisectors impugned in the "Shambles
of Science.” Answers to 1,111 questions,
237 pages. Bound in green cloth or in
paper cover. Free.

The Brown Dog and His Memorial, by
EDWARD K. FORD. Illustrated. An account
Of the Brown Dog Riots, and an inquiry
into their psychology and purport. Written
in an attractive and trenchant style. Price
1/-, post free.

The Unholy Alliance between the Slaughter-
ouse and the Vivisection Laboratory:
Witchcraft Of Ancient Days or the Modern

Fashion of Using Excreta, by NINA
HAMILTON AND BRANDON. Price 1d.
The True Germ Theory, by Dr. H.
VALENTINE KNAGGs. Price 1d.

Diphtheria and Scarlet Fever Immunisation.
Dangers Of Inoculation. Price 1d.

Devils. A Poem by WILLIAM KEAN SEYMOUR.
Price 1/- per 100.

A Pin-prick Experiment. Illustrated. Price
1/- per. 100
The Truth About Vivisection. Chart

showing that cruel experiments are permitted
under. the present law, and how it is
administered. Illustrated. Price 1/- per
100 copies.

Does Vivisection Cause Pain ? Free.

Deeds of. Dogs and. The Truth About
Yiwsectron, New edition, printed on both
srdes. Free.

HELP THE DOG LEAFLETS, 1933 :
I. hat is a “Stray Dog” ?
2. The Laboratory Mind and Experiments

on ogs.
The Dog: The World’s Super Lover.

3.

4. Dogs and .the Last Royal Commission
omVrvrsection (1912).

5. Experiments on Dogs Useless in

Investigating the Nature and Treat-
ment of Cancer.
6. Stolen Dogs: Cases in London, 1926.
Philadelphia. Cologne and Toronto.
7. War Dogs: Their Bravery. All Free.

How Dogs are Treated in Vivisection
Laboratories : Scottish Experiments.
(Illustrated) Reprinted from Progress
To-a'ay, January-March, 1934. Price 1d.

Cruel Experiments on Dogs and Cats
Performed in British Laboratories, by L.
LIND-AIf-l-IAGEBY. Reprinted from The
Antz-Vzmrection and Humanitarian Review.
Price 2d.

Tail-Waggers’ .Club and Vivisection.
Art of Equivocation. Price 1d.
The Deadly Effect of Anti-rabies Inocula-
trons, by Dr. HENRY BOUCHER. Price 1d.
Facts. Relative to the Curing of Hydrophobia.
PI‘lCC 2d.

Peace, Porton and Poison Gas,
BEDDOW BAYLY, M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P.

Constructive Anti-.Vivisection. Reprinted
from The Anti-Vzwrectzon ana’ Humanitarian
Rewew. Price 3d.

The Anti-Vivisection Declaration,

The

by M.

by L.

LIND-AF-HAGEBY. Free.

The Dental: Counter-Competition: Award of
ree.

 

Prizes.

  

Prize Essays in Dental Counter-Competition:
Considerations sur l’Inutilité et la Cruauté

des Experiences Proposées par la
Fédération Dentaire Internationale, par
GASTON GUERARD. Docteur de l’Université
de Paris, Professeur de Dentisterie
Opératoire et d’Anatomie Dentairc
Humaine. Price 6d.

The Best Means of Preventing Dental
Decay in Man and the Uselessness and
Cruelty of the Projected Experiments of
the Internaional Dental Federation, by
J. SIM WALLACE, M.D., D.sc., L.D_s.,
F.A.C.D. Price 6d.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

O-‘J

On the Uselessness and Cruelty of the
Proposed Experiments and the Best
Means of Preventing Dental Decay in
Man, by . W. BRODERICK, M.R.c.s..
L.R.C.P., L.P.S. Price 6d.

Reponse a Une Etude Vivisectionniste
Proposée par la Fédération Dentaire
Internationale: Quels Sont les Meilleurs
Moyens pour Combattre la arie
Dentaire, par LUCIEN FAVRE, Médecin-
Chiru-rgien-Dentiste. Price 6d.

Kulturelle Massentierquaelerei im Wettbe-
werb Medizinischer Wissenschaften, von
Dr. G. ADOLPH CHARMACK. Price 6d.

Wir Brauchen in der Zahnheilkunde
Keinen TierverSuch, von Dr. med. ANTON
LANTSCHNER. Price

Humane Education and Animal Protection
as Civilising Inﬂuences in the Furtherance
of International Peace: Deputation received
by the President of the Conference for the
Reduction and Limitation of Armaments,
April let, 1932. Price 2d.

Impressions of the Spanish Bull-Fight, by
L. LIND-AF-HAGEBY and NINA HAMILTON
AND BRANDON (DUCHEss OF HAMILTON).
Reprinted from The Anti-Vieirection and
Humanitarian Review, 1927. Price 1d.

The Bull-Fight in France. Articles reprinted
from Progress To-day. Price 3

Mind in Animals Series—No. 1: Lumpi and
Fitti: The Counting and Talking Dogs of
Weimar, by MATHILDE, BARONEss VON
FREYTAG - LORINGHOVEN ; The Speaking
Dachshund, by Dr. HELENE BUSCH—ELSNER;

Fips, The Speaking Dog Of Stuttgart.
Price 2d.

Souls of Animals. True Stories Of Animals.
Price 2d.

Les Soqurances et les Droits (?) des

Animaux, par LOUIS. LESPINE, Avocat a la
Cour d'Appel .de Paris. Price 2d.

The Dogs of the Hospice of Grand St.
Bernard, by L. LIND-AF-HAGEBY. (Illus-
rated.) Free.

The Chain of Love, by THE DUCHESS OF
HAMILTON AND BRANDON. Price 2d.

Humane and Inhumane Methods of
Destroying Animals: Problems of Efﬁcient
Lethalisation. Verbatim Report Of the
Proceedings Of a Conference organised by
The Animal Defence Society, together with
Statements and Observations contributed.
Price 1/-.

The Problem of How to Destroy Dogs and
Cats, by M. DUDLEY WARD.

The Use of Carbon Monoxide for the
Destruction of Dogs, by L. LIND-AF-
HAGEBY and N. HAMILTON AND BRANDON.

Practical Animal Protection. Practical Work
Series, No. 1, published by the Geneva
Bureau. 4 pages. Free.

  

 

 




vaiﬂir:

 

 

 

PUBLICATIONS .— (Continued)

Do We Fail?

A plea addressed to my
friends and

co-workers in the Animal
Protection Movement, by L. LIND-AF-
HAGEBY. (Also translated into French and
German.) Price 2d.

Increase in Cruelty to Animals, by L. LIND-
AF-HAGEBY. Price 2d.

The A.B.C. of Animal Protection, being an
extract from a speech by Miss Lind-af—Hageby
at the International Animal Protection
Congress, Vienna, 12th to 17th May, 1929.
Also The Award of Humanitarian Prizes for
the year 1930 by The Bureau International
Humanitaire Zoophile, and Cruelty tO
Animals in Britain. Price 1d.

Christian Ethics and the Animal Kingdom:
e Sacred Kinship of All Living

Creatures. Illustrated Pamphlet by N.
HAMILTON AND BRANDON (DUCHESS or
HAMILTON). Price 6d.

On Being Amused, by L. LIND-AF-HAGEBY.
Price 1d.

On Immortality. A letter to Barry, a dog,
by L. LIND-AF-HAGEBY. 38 pages. Price

1/-. By post, 1/1%:.

Should We Be Many-sided ? by L. LIND-AF-
HAGEBY. Price 1d.

Nature Peace, by LEISA K. SCHARTAU.
Price 2d.

Progress ? by L. LIND-AF-HAGEBY. Price 3d.
We and the Rest, by L. LIND-AF-HAGEBY.
Price 2d.

Retribution, by MORLEY STEYNOR. Price 1rd.

The Animal Protection Sections in the Lord
Mayor’s Processions, 1929 and 1930.
Organised by The Animal Defence Society.
Illustrated pamphlet. Price 6d.

Sport. .A paper read before the Animal
Protection Congress, 1909, by SIR GEORGE
GREENWOOD. Price 2d.

The Slaughter of Young Rooks, by T. S.
HAWKINS. Illustrated. Sold by the Animal
Defence Society. Price 1d

Horses and Ponies in Mines. Illustrated.
50 for 2/6.
A.B.C. of Animal Protection. Free.

The Cost of a Fur Coat, Free.

The Case for Slaugter Reform, by THE
DUCHESS OF .HAMILTON. A Paper read
before the Bristol Congress Of the Royal
Institute Of Public Health, 1926. Free.

Statement of Evidence and Recommendations,
submitted by THE DUCHESS OF HAMILTON
and Miss LIND-AF-HAGEBY, on behalf Of The
Animal Defence Society to the Cabinet
Committee appointed to consider the
Slaughter of Animals. Free.

Market Day, by L. K. SCHARTAU. Free.

Wrecking the Humane Slaughter Bill,
(Meeting of Standing Committee B, House
of Commons, June 27th, 1933.) Free.

Successful Slaughter of Sheep by the
echanical Humane Killer. Personal

Testimony. Free.

Facts, Figures and Personal Testimonials

on the Successful Slaughter of Sheep by
the Mechanical Humane Killer, 1928.
Price 1/- per 100.

The Stockyard, a poem.by J C. SQUIRE.

(Reprinted by kind permission Of the author.)
Price 1d.

 

 

_._. ..'———-—~———< .0 M

l

l

I

l
C)
1..

 

Jewish Method of

Memorandum on the
Slaughtering Animals for Food.

Model Abattoir, Letchworth, Report of
Inauguration of Buildings, July 14, 1927.
Pamphlet. Price 2d.

Model Humane Abattoir. The establishment
of a great example. Illustrated. Price 1d.

Model Abattoir at Letchworth, ” An
Example to all engaged in the Meat
Industry.” A letter which appeared in
Tbe Scottirla Butclyerr’ Journal. Free.

Humanely-Killed Meat. Pamphlet containing
evidence of quality of meat. Price 2d.

The First English Model Abattoir. Reprinted
from The Mancberter Guardian. Free.

Twelve Years’ Experience of Humane

Slaughter, by H. TOOMER. Free.

Evidence that Pork and Bacon are not
Spoiled by the use of the Humane Killer.
Speech by Dr. M. J. ROWLANDS. Free.

The Right Way and the Wrong Way of
Killing Animals for Food. Illustrated.
Price 1 .

Our Case for Slaughter Reform. Free.

Evidence of Cruelty Caused by the Pole-
Axe. Illustrated. Free.

Report on the Demonstration of Slaughtering
Methods, organised by the National Federa-
tion Of Meat Traders’ Associations, and
held in Birmingham, by THE DUCHESS or
HAMILTON, MIss LIND-AF-HAGEBY and
Mr. JOHN DODDS. Free.

The Cruelties of Slaughter. Free.

Compassion—The Greatest Attribute of
Humanity. An Address by MISS LIND-AF-

HAGEBY, delivered at St. Anne’s, Soho.

Price 2d.

All Things Bright and Beautiful. A
children’s hymn. Illustrated. Price 1/6
per dozen.

Jesus and the Animals: The Friendly
Beasts. A poem. Free.

To All Children. A letter. Price 3d. per
dozen.

Teach the Child. Illustrated, by L. LIND-AF-
HAGEBY. Price 1/6 per dozen.

The Call to Compassion. Illuminated. Sold
for the benefit of The Animal Defence
Society. Price 2/-,

Christmas and the Animals, by NINA
HAMILTON AND BRANDON (DUCHESS or
HAMILTON). Price 2d.

The Atonement. Illuminated
ANNA KINGSFORD. Price 1/6.

The Hymn of Love, by ANNA KINGSFORD.
Price 3d.

Inspiration, by ANNA KINGSFQRD. Price 3d.

The Humane Exhibition. Leaﬂet. Free.

Why You Should Become a Member of
The Animal Defence and Anti-Vivisection

scroll, by

Society. Leaﬂet. Free.

Coloured Poster of St. Francis and the
Animals. Price 3/._

Other Posters, some coloured. Prices on
application.

3

  

 

 




THE ANIMAL DEFENCE AND
ANTI-VIVISECTION SOCIETY,

15, ST. JAMES-’S PLACE, LONDON, S.W.1

(formerly 35, Old Bond Street, W.l).

 

 

 

 

 

Term of Eequest.

To those benevolent persons who may be
disposed to become benefactors by will to
this SOCiety, the following form is respectfully
suggested :—

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1 “ I bequeath to The Animal Defence and ‘
Anti’Vivis'ection Society, of No. 15, St. lames’s ‘
Place, London, s.w.1, formerly of 35, Old Bond {I
Street, London, W.1, the sum of £ ...............
(free of legacy duty ) to be applicable for the
general purposes of such Society, and I declare l
that the receipt of the Treasurer, or other proper
ofﬁcer for the time being of such Society, shall

be a sufﬁcient discharge for the same.” 1

 

CAUTION. t

It is of great importance to describe very accurately the Title of this
Societ‘ymnamely, “ THE ANIMAL DEFENCE AND ANTI—VIVISECTION SOCIETY,"
otherwise the benevolent intentions of the Donor may be frustrated. By
virtue of the Act of 1 Victoria, cap 26, all Wills or Codicils must be in
\Vriting, signed by the Testator in the presence of two witnesses who must I
attest the same in the presence [of the Testator and of each other. i?

224

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

-._A.

".

' --—
V‘r“

.m- ‘a' w
-.~

Come and See

716

\\\\\\\\\\\‘\ \\\\\\\\\\‘\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\ \\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\ \\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\‘

meﬂs

\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\

NM“\\\\\\\\\\l\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\)\\\\\\\\\\\'\\'\\a

     

  
  

"""" um“\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\

WW\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\
of the

 

The S .
. OCIet .

Whlch arey :38 TWO Motor
ls’ed for Exhib- garaVans
ropaganda. “1011 and

 




 

 

Why You shouid become a
. OF

THE ANIMAL DEFENCE AND
ANTI-VIVlSECTION SOCIETY

15, ST. JAMES'S PLACE. ST. JAMES'S STREET, LONDON. $.W.1
And at" 4. COUR ST. PIERRE. GENEVA, SWITZERLAND

President: Hon. Director and Founder:
THE DUCHESS OF HAMILTON. MISS LIND-AF-HAGEBY.

The Socieiy has been in exisfence 28 years and has worked sfrenuously fo
suppress cruel’ry in every form. and fo creafe a spirif of mercy and iusfice
in fhe frea’rmenf of animals. The Socie’ry carries on a vigorous campaign fo
reform ’rhe mei'hods of slaughfer and franspori. +0 and fhe horrors of H19 sfeel-
frap and fhe fur fraffic. fo expose fhe cruel‘ries of fhe bull-fight fhe rodeo.
specfacles and spor’rs which are based on fhe suffering oﬁfanimals. fo abolish
vivisecfion. and generally fo awaken feeling and unders’randing in regard fo ’rhe
’rreafmenf of animals. A

The influence of fhe Sociefy is world-wide. Many hundred sociefies in a
number of counfries are associafed wi’rh fhe work of fire Animal Defence Socie'iy.
If s’rands for The principle iha’r fhe cause of humanify ’ro animals is no’r a side-
issue. but a vital part of civilisation and social deveZOpment. The Sociefy
fherefore seeks fo infroduce humane educaiion in every school. The Socie’ry's
ac’rive campaigns for reform are carried ouf by means of mee’rings. lecfures.
exfensive dis’rribu’rion of publicafions. press publicify. inferna’rional congresses.
exhibifions. demonsfraiions. e’rc.

The Sociel‘y has: Organised a Depu’rafion. supporfed by over L400 Animal
Profecfion Sociefies. fo fhe Presidenf of fhe Conference for fire Reducfion and
Limifafion of Armamenfs in Geneva. emphasising fhe imporfance of humane
educa’rion and animal profecfion as civilising infiuences in ihe furiherance of
infernafional peace. April. I932. Builf a Model Humane AbaHoir af Lefchwor’rh.
Organised demonsfra’rions of Humane Slaughfer in London. Lefchworih. Paris.
Geneva. and ofher fowns. Mainfains permanenf Humane Exhibitions in London
and Geneva. Organised ihe Seciions relafing ’ro fhe profeciion of animals
in fhe Lord Mayor's Processions ’rhrough London in I929 and T930. Mainiains
fwo mo’ror caravans for purposes of educa’rion and agifaiion. Organised during
ihe European War veierinary hospifals for sick and wounded horses of fhe
French Army under fhe aufhoriiy of His French War Oifice. Maim‘ained for
some years a shop in Piccadilly. London. for making known +he facfs abouf
Vivisecfion. Has published numerous ar’ricles by medical men and women
againsf Vivisecfion. Has organised greaf lnierna’rional Congresses and ini’riafed
vigorous Parliamenfary Campaigns.

Member's Annual .Subscripiion. IOs.; Life Membership. £5; Associafe's 25. 6d.
Cheques and Pos’ral Orders should be made payable +0 The Animal Defence
and An’ri-Vivisecfion Society. l5. Sf. James's Place. London, S.W.l.
Bankers: The Midland Bank, 36. Old Bond 51".. W.l. Telephone: Regent 0845.

Hon. Treasurer: MISS B. C. DELIUS. Secretary: MISS L. K. SCHARTAU.
Secretary, International Humanitarian Bureau, Geneva: MRS; M. E. MORDAN.

‘__.

Printed by 81'. OLEMENTS Panes. LTD., Portugal St... London. W.O.2.

 




