Why should Birds be protected?

What is the Society doing P
What does the Society want to do 9

 




 

Why should Birds be Protected ?

HE word Protection is constantly mis-

understood in this connection. The
unthinking say that the Society, or the law,
over—protects this or that bird and thus
creates trouble.

Protection of Wild Birds, as known to
the Society and the law, is not Artiﬁcial
Protection. It is a ﬁght against Artiﬁcial
Dcstruciionwdestruction, that is to say, which
is not of Nature’s ordering but is brought
about by Ignorance, Callousness, Greed and
Cruelty. All these things interfere with the
natural status of Birds in Nature’s plan;
all rob man himself. They deprive cultivators
of the soil of their ﬁrst line of defence against
insect pests; they diminish or exterminate
Birds of exceptional rarity and beauty ; they
condemn thousands of creatures to captivity
or death at the hands of the birdcatcher;
they deprive the land of charm and beauty,
life and song.




What the Society wants to do

HE Society wishes to increase the
number of its Publications, Posters,
Lectures and Food-Charts; to. protect and
guard more Sanctuaries; to extend Edu-
cational efforts of every kind, and to plant
the Bird and Tree Scheme throughout the
country. ,

It wishes to preserve this green and
pleasant land, with its renowned bird-music,
as the heritage of Britain’s sons and
daughters; to ensure a welcome for the
migrants that come from the south in
summer to rear their young in the old
home; and for those that leave the frozen
north to seek food and shelter with us in
winter. ‘

To widen useful knowledge, evoke sym-
pathy, and promote interest in Wild Birds,
“the winged wardens of our ﬁelds,” and to
gain co—operation in the many efforts of the
Society .for the beneﬁt of the Birds, of the
Countryside, and of the Nation, is its aim.

 




What is the Society doing?

GNORANCE is perhaps the greatest
Enemy of Bird Protection. Ignorance
regarding birds, their identity, their habits,
their food, their notes, is general ; and who
Cares to protect that of which he knows
nothing? The R.S.P.B. seeks to remove
this stumbling-block by Leaﬂets and other
Publications (including illustrated Charts of
Bird—Food), by Educational schemes (in-
cluding Bird and Tree Competitions in
Elementary Schools); by Lectures; by
answers to correspondents on questions of
food, status, habits, legal protection,aetc.;
by assistance in amending County Bird
Protection Orders.

The Society strives by every means in its
power to create knowledge of Birds and
interest in living bird life. Its Quarterly,
Bird Notes 63 News, is a medium Of com-
munication for bird-lovers and contains in-
teresting articles and information, keeping
readers in touch with the cause all over
the world.

THE ROYAL SOCIETY FOR THE PROTECTION

Incorporatedi under Royal Charter, November, 1904.

Founded February, 1889.

What is the Society doing?

GNORANCE and Callousness, Greed and
Cruelty, hunt in couples. Greed, either
for money or for personal advantage of any
kind, means indifference as to methods
whether in the case of the birdcatcher with
his lime and traps, the trader and the woman
in the slaughter of millions of birds for
plumage, the collector with his thirst for
possession of rare and valuable bird-skins
and eggs.

The Society has been instrumental in
effecting immense advances in legislation on
the primary Act of 1880 in practically every
direction ; and it is ever anxious to promote
wise laws and bye—laws. It seeks still more
earnestly to create a Public Opinion that will
demand and support amended legislation. It
publishes a digest of existing laws, and posters
to supplement those issued by the Councils.

International questions, such as the Oil
trouble, protection of Migratory Birds, im-
port and export of Birds, and the Plumage
trade, have the Society’s keen attention.

OF BIRDS

82, VICTORIA STREET, LONDON, S.W.I

Telephone : Patron :

VICtoria 2 4 I 2 TIesident:

Hon. rCireasurIs-r:

HIS MAJESTY THE KING.
HER GRACE THE DUCHESS OF PORTLAND.
THE RIGHT HON THE EARL OF CLARENDON, K.G.

Chairman of Council: SIR MOi‘lTAGU SHARPE, K..,C D..L

Secretary:

Secretary, Watchers’ Committee:
Editor of Pub/Icaizons:

R PRESTON EONALDSON, M. B.OU.
MRS. F, ANK E. LEMON, M.B.E., M,B.O.U.

liIIISS L GARDINER.

I desire to be enrolled in the Royal Society for the Protection of Birds as

Fellow
a * Member
Associate

,K {which I will contribute yearly.

as a donation.
Name

and send herewith the ‘isam of £

(Please slate: Mrs.,III-Vlisis For Esq.)

Address..,_...,....... _

TERMS OF SUBSCRIPTION.
Life Fellow £21.

Life Member ..
Associate

J. M. & Co., Lm. 19/5/39

. £5 55.

*‘ Strike out words not needed.

. From £1 ls. annually.

Fellow
From 55. annually.

Member ...

. From 25. 6d annually.

l
l

 




“ There can be no better way of really
helping the cause of Bird Preservation
than by supporting the Royal Society for
the Protection of Birds.”

VISCOUNT GREY OF FALLODON, KG.

OU can do much to help the cause by

joining the Society, or, if you are already
a member, by encouraging and urging others
to join. Missionaries and Recruiting Ofﬁcers
are needed all over the country.

Copies of the Society’s Prospectus, of
“ Bird Notes and News,” or of Leaﬂets on
special subjects will be sent on application
to the Society’s Ofﬁce.

The compass of the Society’s efforts, and
their result, is limited only by its income ;
in other words, by its ﬁgure of membership,
augmented by donations and legacies.

 




