 

 

 

 

 

 

Why 7 @ondemn

Viviseeb‘ion.

ROBERT H. PERKs,

MI Do. F. Ric-SI, enz.

F curt/z Edition (Revised).
Thiwty-ﬁftk Thousand.

 

The Order of the. Cross,

PAIGNTON, ENGLAND.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

3n memoriam.

IN MEMORY OF THE LATE

MRS. JANE PURDON CLARKE,

OF LARNE, IRELAND,

And of her Sister.

MRS. ANNIE VIVIENNE PURDON JOYCE,

Whose noble gifts for the furtherance
of the work of the Order of the Cross
the Council gratefully acknowledge.

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

Why I condemn Vivisection. .

 

I condemn Vivisection because :—-—

It is unscientiﬁc in its methods, and consequently the
knowledge gained by its practice is self-contradictory
and misleading, and when applied for the relief of
human disease has usually gbroved useless, and often-
harmful. It also tends to cause neglect of the true
scientiﬁc methods of clinical and pathological ”research.

It ignores the only true method for the conquest and pre-
vention of disease, viz., the observance‘of the natural
(Divine) laws of man’s being.

It is productive of a vast amount of severe suﬂering to
animals without any corresponding advantage or
beneﬁt to them.

Its tendency is to debase the moral and spiritual standard
of those who practise or who witness it, and to foster
a selﬁsh, cruel and callous spirit, and is thus a grave
menace to society.

It is a direct infraction of the moral law—the doing of

It is a cowardly and selﬁsh attempt of men, careless of
the suﬂerings of others, to gain knowledge either for
their own ends or that it may be serviceable in healing
the self-generated diseases of mankind.

Its spirit is the inversion and antithesis of the spirit of the
Divine Love, which makes itself manifest in com-
passion and self-sacrifice ; whose way is, as The
Christ declared, the only one by which man can reach
the true goal of his being—the perfect life of the Divine
Father.

 

 




 

WHAT IS VIVISECTION?

IVISECTION, literally the “ cutting of the living,” is

\/ the term used to designate experiments upon animals

for the purpose of physiological and pathological

research, and includes not only those involving actual cutting,

but also those in which the subjects are, to use plain language,

starved, baked, frozen, drowned, etc., or inoculated with
various diseases, to the same end.

These cruelties—detailed accounts of which are freely
and fully published in the various journals devoted to such
records, not only without shame but with appreciation—are
inﬂicted upon thousands of warm-blooded sentient creatures
annually in the countries of our Western civilization. Only
in a very small proportion of these operations is consciousness
abolished by the use of efﬁcient anmsthetics, such as chloro-
form and-ether ; and even when used the convenience of the
operator and not the beneﬁt of the victim is considered, and
the anaesthesia is often only partial in character; or the
victim is “ quieted ” by the administration of drugs, such as
morphia, chloral, curare and others—in no sense true anaes-
thetics—by which it is rendered more or less muscularly
inert, but with sensibility still intact. In a large number of
cases, necessarily including those in which exposed vital
organs are under observation for days, weeks, or even months
--and in all cases of inoculation of disease, in which the con-
sequent sufferings are often very severe and prolonged——
anaesthetics are of course out of the question.*

A very brief acquaintance with the literature of the
subject is sufficient to convince anyone-even if he be of the
most ordinary intelligence—that a vast aggregate of severe
and protracted animal suffering, often amounting to “ torture
of the most atrocious description the mind of man can con-
ceive ” (to quote the words of the arch-vivisector, Claude
Bernard), is caused by this practice, a fact freely admitted
by many of those who uphold it. And this takes place in
the laboratories of those nations who pride themselves on being
the most progressive, highly civilized and “ Christian.”

 

* In our own country alone has an attempt been made to control
vivisection, and to minimize the sufferings of its victims by legislation.
But there has not been a-single prosecution, though prominent vivi-
sectors have confessed to violating the law. Unfortunately, instead
of protecting the victim the Act has really protected the vivisector by
legalizing this form of cruelty.

2

 

 

 




 

 

 

REASON ASSIGNED FOR VIVISECTION.

The chief reasOn given for acquiescence in, and, con—
donation of, these barbarities, and one which is usually thought-
lessly accepted without further enquiry as being adequate,
is that such methods of research are necessary and indeed
indispensable in order to gain knowledge for the successful
treatment of disease when a very little investigation would
have revealed the fact that there is anything but unanimity
of opinion on this point amongst those who ought to know,
for we have the recorded testimony of many of the most
eminent members of the medical professiOn to the effect that
no knowledge of real and lasting Value has been gained
thereby, but, on the contrary, that such “knowledge ” has
been eminently unsatisfactory, contradictory, andmisleading,
and has often seriously hindered the real advance of mediCal
science. (See Appendix I.) . ' '

. And here it is well to call attention to the fact that
although vivisectors in this country are loud in proclaiming
that their researches have for their sole aim the alleviation
of human disease, and are undertaken in a purely altruistic
and humanitarian Spirit—knowing full well that it is only
in this (false) belief that even a selﬁsh public tolerates the
gross cruelties involved in them—yet their brethren of the
Continent are usually found to disavow any such humani-
tarian objects with cynical frankness; Professors Richet
and Hermann are perhaps their foremost representatives,
who by virtue of their position must be assumed to be well
acquainted with the motives which actuate their colleagues,
and this is what they say on this point:

“ I do not believe that a single experimenter says to himself when
he gives curare to a rabbit or cuts the spinal cord of a dog, ‘ Here is
an experiment which will relieve or cure the disease of some men.’ No,
he does not think of that. He says to himself, “ I will clear up an obscure
point. I will seek out a new fact.’ ”——CHA_RLEs RICHET, M.D., Pro-
fessor of Physiology, Paris, in Revue des deux Mondes, Feb. I 5, 188 3.

" The advancement of our knowledge, and not utility to medicine,
is the true and straightforward object of all vivisection. No true
investigator in his researches thinks of their practical utilization. Science
can afford to despise this justiﬁcation with which vivisection has been
defended in England.”-—Dr. L. HERMANN, Professor of Physiology,
Zurich, Die Vivisections—frage, Leipsic, 1877. (Italics mine), _ ,

Anything offering a more complete illustration of what
vivisection really means than do these testimonies of its
chief friends it would be difﬁcult to imagine, nor can a greater
condemnation of it than that contained in these utterances

be wellgconceived.

 

 




 

 

 

I havesaidthat vivisection is often condoned, thought—
lessly, because if the actual practice could be revealed, brought
home, as it were, in all its naked hideousness to persons not
yet hardened by familiarity, they would recoil in horror
from it..

Let us suppose a sick man consenting to an animal
being brought to his bedside and subjected to prolonged
torture and mutilation in the hope that he might possibly
gain thereby reliefof his disorder ; would not his neighbours,
as. their hearts were torn by the cries of the victim, denounCe
him with one accord as a heartleSs Wretch unworthy of the
name of man P I have sufﬁcient faith in the better feelings
of humanity to believe that this would be so-

Yet such is the present apathy and lack of imagina-
tion, to uSe no harsher terms, that in the absence of practical
realization peOple tacitly become the , aiders and abettors
of ~ numberless deeds of darkness of this nature perpetrated
ostensibly on their behalf and in their interests.

It is not my purpose within the limits of this pamphlet
to discuss ‘ the queStions, as to the exact amount ‘of pain
inﬂicted in certain cases, or the value of the results alleged
to have» been gained by the practice of vivisection. The
primary consideration which confronts us is this—Is it right
or is it wrong P Is its practice a Violation of the moral
law, and of the Eternal and Divine laws of Justice and Love 2’
If it be, as I believe it to be, such a violation, then the former
questions are relatively unimportant; for no pleading of
“ good intentions,” no amount of “ good results,” no miniv
mising of the amount of pain inﬂicted, can justify it. ' Such a
plea might with equal want of logic, be advancedto establish
the contention that the good results accruing from the benevo-
lent distribution of stolen property by a thief can justify his
crime.

On this point I agree with Herr D. L. Ortt 9-.-

“ In our decision on the morality of a question, we may not ask
whether it will be useful or prejudicial. We admit in other cases
that a human life 13 not to be esteemed the highest and most important
of all things. We esteem it brave and noble that a man should oﬂer
up his life for an ideal. We admire the heroes who died for their
fatherland, or from loyalty to a cause or person :' we extol the martyrs
who died for their creed and thereby we proclaim that we esteem
ideals higher than a human life. . . . We should hold it cowardice
if any one to reSCue his life, had renounced loyalty to his prince, his
fatherla-nd, or his creed. Is it not then cowardice that out of fear
to lose our miserable life we should forsake loyalty to our highest

4

 

 

 




 

 

 

feeling of humanity and allow innocent creatures : to suffer in order
to prolong somewhat our days on earth, or to improve a little the
conditiOn of _ our health? ‘ , ‘ . _ _

" 3 “ Let each one answerﬁthis question for himself. . _

“ For my part, when I ﬁrst faced the question of whether vivi-
section-was or was not lawful, of whether animals might be sacriﬁced,
when this would indeed bring good to many men or, indeed, to a
great number of animals, there ﬂashed into my mind suddenly the
thought of how Jesus would, have regarded the question. Would
He ever have plunged the vivisecting knife into the body of an animal
to further science or the prosperity of mankind P And when I con-
sidered the question in this light my choice was made. Then I knew
Vivisection to be an evil, howsoever one may seek to justify it.”

I think it is not difﬁcult to see that Vivisection, in its
nature, is essentially anti-human as well as being opposed
to the Divine Will; for its true roots lie deep in cynical
egoism and callous selﬁshness, the proliﬁc soil from which
spring the worst crimes. '

When Vivisection was ﬁrst introduced into England on
an extended scale in the middle of the, last century, the
medical profession (like the persons in the case we have
supposed) recoiled in horror from the attempt to advance
knowledge by ' such means, and their leading organs, in:
cluding the Lancet and the British Medical journal, con-
demned the practice in no measured terms. (See Appendix
111.) What a conﬁrmation is their changed attitude towards
it t‘o-day, of the fact that long and familiar association with
evil Surely clouds the understanding and debases the mOral,
standard ! Truly one cannot tOuch pitch and escape deﬁle—
ment !

WHENCE COME DISEASES ?

Again, assuming for the moment the truths of the state-
ment- that Vivisection is absolutely necessary if %_we would
gain the knowledge required for the successful); treatment
of disease, might we not expect that it would be onlyunder—
taken as a dreaded and dreadful last resource, when all other
means had failed? ‘ But the facts show that the very oppo-
site is the case.

The majority of the ills from which which we suffer may
bearranged as to their causes in three main groups, thus..:-—‘-_

(61) Those due to violation or neglect of hygiene, public or
personal, including such as are caused by overcrowding,
dangerous trades, food adulteration, etc.

(1)) Those due to dietetic errors, via: overfeeding and
gluttony, the use of ﬂesh foods, alcohol, narcotics, etc.

 

 




 

 

(c) Those due to" the " premature exhaustion of vital force
' ' or nervous energy; the result of the haste to be rich,
and the too strenuous struggle for purely ‘egoistic ends

- which characterizes our modern civilization, aided by
the depleting effects of the passions—hate, envy, greed,
sensuality, eta—which ﬁnd full play therein ; or to the

' conditions of hopeless struggle, worry, and fear which
together with grinding poverty and semi-starvation are
the lot of many, and which are very largely due to
the action of our ruthless competitive commercial system,
accentuated by' the injustice of many of our social laws.

In the light afforded by such a classiﬁcation which
shows disease as the result of the violation of law, physical,
ethical or spiritual, is it not certain that if man were to
repent him, in the true sense of the word, of these errors,
and earnestly set about amending his ways on all planes of
his being, nine-tenths of the diseases which afflict him would
speedily disappear and be unknown in the course of a genera—
tion or two ; by which time the consequent enhancement of
physical vigour and stamina would most probably have
rendered him immune to the remainder.

Why then has this radical, and rational method of dealing
with disease, or rather its prevention, been neglected (except
in very limited and special directions) ? Because self stands
in the way ; and such reform would necessitate the renuncia-
tion of much that man considers desirable. In fact, it would
involve self-sacriﬁce, and rather than face this alternative
he prefers to retain his luxuries, vices and follies, and to
attempt, instead, to wring from the involuntary sufferings
of others the knowledge that he. hopes may save him from the
disease and death which are the inevitable results of his trans-
gressions. Truly a vain and cowardly attempt to escape the
retributive effects of his own iniquities !

WE REAP WHAT WE SOW!

Thus does Vivisection reveal itself as the very antithesis
of the Law of Love whose Golden Rule “ to do unto others
as we would that they should do unto us ” has ever taken
the chief place in the teachings of all God’s inspired messengers
to man throughout the Ages, and most notably in those of
The Christ. This marks it as the negation of good, as essen-
tially evil and as of the infernal.

.It is vain to expect from such a source any saving
6

 

w;

 




 

 

knowledge or deliverance from disease! Rather will this
cruelty, this selﬁsh inﬂiction of unmeasured sufferings upon
our sub-human fellow-creatures, yield a terrible harvest of
quite another sort.

In fact, are we not already reaping that which we have
sown, in the increase of disease and lunacy which is now
in evidence, and especially in that fearful and paralysing
sense of fear—fear of sickness, of poverty, of death, tear
of we know not what impending calamities—that dominates
and renders miserable the lives of so many amongst us, and
which is a marked mental characteristic of the Age P

And is it not a lamentable fact that, with a few noble
exceptions, the attitude of the teachers and members of
our Churches towards this evil is one of indifference or selﬁsh
acquiescence? When will they realize that by their tacit
sanction, and acceptance of the fruits of this atrocious crime
———for it is nothing less—they are actual, though vicarious,
partakers of its guilt ; that they crucify the Lord afresh in
the torments they inﬂict on His creatures, and by so doing
darken the Vision of His Presence.

Well may they feel that spiritual weakness and poverty
is their portion, when Love, Compassion and Pity, the ﬁrst
principles of the Gospel of The Christ, whose followers and
brethren they profess to be, are supplanted in their midst
by a spirit of heartless self-seeking.

It is indeed high time that Christendom awakened from
its apathetic slumber, and realized the true meaning of this
practice, so that it may be banished from our midst.

The following from the pen of the late Dr. Anna Kings-
ford gives us in eloquent and thrilling words a presentation
of the true nature of Vivisection and its identity in kind
and method with the works of the black magicians of all
3. es :—

g “ Side by side with the true priestly magic, there has always
been the unholy art of the wizard, the art of black magic, that of
the man who sought to produce miraCulous effects by evil means.
To know, to heal, to work marvels by true magic, it is necessary to
live purely, to abstain from indulgence of the ﬂesh, and to do the
deeds of love. All this did not suit the man of the World, who desired
to attain the same results, but without the self—sacriﬁce. He had
recourse then to devils, and wrung from them by evil means miraculous
powers. To satisfy and to propitiate them, he offered living oblations
in secret places, and sacriﬁced to them the most innocent victims
he could procure, putting them to hideous deaths in order to obtain
the knowledge or power he sought. The same part is played by the

' vivisector of to-day. He is, in fact, a practitioner of black magic;

he obtains his knowledge by means of the exact counterparts of the

7

 

 




 

 

 

 

bloody devil-sacriﬁces of the wizards, and, like them, he damns himself
in the process- In'what shall we say the practices of the secret devil;
worshippers of mediasval times differed from those which now go on
in the underground laboratories of the Medical School at Paris
(and elsewhere)? There, as from time to time a door swings open
below that ﬂight of stone steps leading down into the darkness, you
may hear a burst of shrieks and moans such as those which arose
from the subterraneous vaults of the sorcerers of the dark ages. It
is—as it was then—the wizard at his work, the votary of Satan pur-
suing his researches, and at the price of torture and of his soul, wrestling
knowledge from the powers of evil.

’ “ It used to be deemed a damnable sin to, practise such black
arts as these. But now their professors hold their Sabbat in public,
and their enunciations are reported in the journals of the day. It is
held to be superstition to believe that in former ages wizards were able
by secret tortures and unheard-of atrocities to wrest knowledge from
Nature; but now the self-same crimes are openly and universally
practised ; and men everywhere trust their efﬁcacy.

“ What is needed is the revival of the true magic of the Pure
Life, which heals without blood and gives health without vicarious
disease. It is black magic, which, in order to cure a patient, ﬁrst
transfers his complaint to an innocent victim. He who accepts health
at such cost shall but save it to lose it.”

THE ETHICS OF VIVISECTORS.’

It is an universal experience that familiarity with cruel
and bloody scenes, or participation in cruel acts, invariably
leads to a deterioration of the moral sense, and exercises a
distinctly brutalizing effect on spectators and actors alike;
and as evidence that vivisection produces such effects—as
might be predicated from its nature—it will be sufﬁcient
to quote from the writings of some of the most “ celebrated ”
experimenters. Thus M. de Cyon, in a work which he pre-
pared for the guidance of students, says that the true vivi-
sector must approach a difﬁcult vivisection with “ joyful
ardonr and delight,” (M ethodik, p. 15). Claude Bernard
wrote thus :——-“ He (the vivisector) is no ordinary man.
He is a learned man, a man possessed and absorbed by a
scientiﬁc idea. He does not hear the animal’s cries of pain.
He is blind to the blood that ﬂows. He sees nothing but
his idea.” (Introduction d l’Etnde de la Medicine Experi-
menmle, p. 180). An awful picture, to quote a recent writer,
of a man besotted with a lust of knowledge, just as murderers
are sometimes besotted with a lust of gold : the one as pitiless
and as regardless of all law as the other.

_ Again, note the answers given by Dr. Emanuel Klein,
one of the most active of vivisectors in England, and who
is still working here, to questions put by members of the
Royal Commission, 1875. (I give only a few extracts) :—

8

 

 




 

Asked by the Chairman of the Commission ( 3 5 39): “ When you
say that yOu only use them (2'.e., anaesthetics) for convenience sake,
do you mean that you have no regard at all to the sufferings of the
animals ? ”-——-“ No regard at all.”

Asked~ again (3541) : “ Then for your own purposes you disregard
entirely the question of the suffering of the animal in performing a

painful experiment ? ”——“ I do.” ,

Asked (3546) : “ Do you believetha’t that is a general practice on
the Continent to disregard altogether the feelings of the animals ? ”-—
“ I believe so.” ' ' ' , ' .

Asked (35 5 3) : “ But you believe that; generally speaking, there is
a very different feeling in England P ”—-“ Not among the physiologists ;
I do not think there is.” “ ,7 '

Asked (3739) : “ And you think that the view of scientiﬁc, men on
the Continent is your View, that animal suffering is so entirely un~
important compared with scientiﬁc research that it should not be taken
into account at all P ”——“ Yes, except for convenience sake.

These replies indicate a deplorable callousness to suffer-
ing in the speaker himself, and he admits that in his opinion
many English vivisectors feel and act as he does.

GRAVE MORAL EVILS.

Such damnatory testimonies might be largely multiplied,
but these will sufﬁce to illustrate my point, and fully justify
the late Mr. Henry Lee, F.R.C.S. (Senior Consulting Surgeon
to St. George’s Hospital, London, and Lecturer on Pathology
and Surgery to the Royal College of Surgeons, England), in
his opinion that— - ‘

“ The hands of the vivisector, by the repeated use of morally un-

lawful things, gradually become hardened, and a kind of creeping paralysis
ﬁnally extends to the vital parts. . . .”

In the light afforded by these extracts, it is manifest
that the growing practice in our Medical Schools of demon—
strating the elementary facts of physiology by experiments
on living animals, before classes of young and impressionable
male and female (I) students, cannot be otherwise than
productive of grave moral evils, and this amongst premsely
that section of the rising generation (the medical) whose
ethical and altruistic ideals should be of the highest, if they
would prove themselves worthy of their profession and of
the conﬁdence reposed in them by their felloWs. The opinions
of many well-known physicians testify to the reality of this
danger. From these 'I select the following :—

“ I- would shrink with horror from accustoming large classes of
young men to the sight of animals under vivisection. I believe many
of them would become cruel and hardened, and would go away and
repeat those experiments recklessly. Science would gain nothing, and
the world would have let loose upon it a set‘of young devils."

DR. S. HOUGHTON, of Dublin, in evidence before the Rgval Com-
mission, 1876.

9

 




 

 

 

“ Watch the students at a Vivisection. It is the blood and suffer-
ing, not. the science, that rivets their breathless attention.”

- PROF. BIGELOW, lateEProfessor of Surgery in H arvarng niversity,

in paper read before the Massachusetts Medical Society.

_ ‘f In the hands of the teacher it may be rankly abused ; of scientiﬁc
pursuits it' is the one most liable 'to error ,' it suggests no end to itself,
but seems to grow by what it feeds on, becoming by repetition and
contest more and more extended and multiplied ; '. . . and for all
such reasons . . . is calculated tq lead to what would be designated

intellectual and moral evil.” .
SIR B. W; RICHARDSQN, “ Biological Experimentation," p. 138.
' “ Experiments on living annuals should be forbidden in lectures
on§the ground of their uselessness, and perhaps cruelty also.
Such demonstrations cannot but be demoralizing to the young men and
women who witness their performance. They seem to me to be an aﬁence
against humanity.”

SIR W. THORNLEY STOKER, President of the Royal Academy
of Medicine of Ireland and Inspector for Ireland under
the Vivisection Act, in evidence before the Royal Com-
mission, 1906. ._

And as long as seventy years ago the celebrated Dr.
Abernethy, the contemporary of the noted vivisector Maj endie,
said: “ Vivisection has the direct eﬂect of deteriorating the
moral sense: and once the moral sense is destroyed, it is

impossible to foresee the consequences.”

AN UNSCIENTIFIC “ SCIENCE.”

Further, the attempt to gain knowledge respecting the
processes of human physiology and pathology by the vivi-
section of the lower animals is radically unscientiﬁc. In
respect to the former, because the abnormal conditions——
pain, shock or anaesthesia—under which the experiment is
conducted necessarily vitiate any conclusions which may be
drawn from it, as Sir B. W. Richardson observes in the
work just quoted above—“ It is utterly impossible to observe
natural function under the shadow of pain either in man or
animal ; ” and as regards the latter branch of investigation,
it is well-known that the reaction of the lower animals to
injury, induced disease and drugs, differs greatly both in
kind and degree from that of man to the same agents, so
much so that it is notorious that in all such investigations,
the. results have been confusing and contradictory (and
therefore worthless) in the highest degree; in plain words
have served to darken knowledge rather than to reveal it.

. Claude Bernard, master vivisector as he was, voiced his
opinion “On this point in one of his lectures by advising his

IO

 

 

 

m 45 ﬂ, -,_,,_.___

 




 

 

 

 

av; 45 .1 #4..”

 

 

students, whilst pursuing the study of human disease, to
forget all that they had ever learned from Vivisection. And
many'ViviseCtors, both in the past and to-day, have used this
very faCt,”1'.e., the impossibility Of obtaining reliable know-
ledge of human diseases, etc., through experiments on the
lower animals, as the ground of their adecacy of, or apologies
for, human Vivis'ection, many Cases of Which have come to
light in recent years; Some indeed have been published ‘
by_ their authors With a degree 0f shamelessness and cynicism .
rarely surpassed. (See appendix IV.) '

, And it was precisely this reason which was urged by
the supporters of a Bill for the Utilization of Criminals by
ViVisection, introduced into the State Legislature of Ohio, in
recent years (Nov. 1894) and which was only rejected by a
small , majority.

That section of the public who have hitherto treated this
subject with selﬁsh apathy would do well to lay to heart the
truth that human v1v1'sect1'011 13 the log1cal and memtable outcome
of animal v1'v1sect1011; it may, when higher considerations fail,
by its suggestion of danger to their own precious persons,
serve to arouse such from their attitude of acquiescence in
this crime.

,Lastly, we have learned that as regards the higher
animals there is no abrupt line of demarcation between the
physical structure, the physiological functions, the reasoning
powers, of the various genera, and that in these they differ
not in'k1'11d but in degree only of development and specializa-
tion’, and that man is but the “ elder brother ” of them all. '

To admit (as I think a careful study of biology compels
us to do) that the animals are in this sense akin to ourselves,
differing only 1n degree of development, is to admit that we
have responsibilities and duties toWards them as lesser
children of the same Supreme Father, which cannot lightly
be neglected, evaded or Set at naught, and which unmistake—
ably indicate that the true relation of man towards them, so
far from being that of the hard taskmaster and ruthless
exploiter for any and every Selﬁsh purpose, should be that
of guardian and friend (as far as their natures will permit) and
as their helper, striving to develop their intelligence to its
utmost capacity; 80 doing he fulﬁls the Divine law of LoVe
to the neighbour, Whilst ennobling his own nature -; and reaps
a rich reward in the affectiOn and ﬁdelity of ~- his “little
brothers.”

I-I '

 

 




 

 

 

A RIGHTEOUS VIEW.

To be competent to decide rightly respecting this matter
of vivisection, it is not necessary that we be experts in medical
or other science, or able to judge accurately the value or other»
wise of knowledge said to have been gained through it, our
decision must be based on the due con51deration of the ethical
and spiritual, rather than the merely utilitarian bearings of
the subject, and here the layman stands on an equality with
the expert. As the late Mr. Ed. Maitland so well put it: ~—-
“ The appeal is from the specialist to the more evenly devel-
oped conscience of the community at large. It is for us as
a people to declare that there are moral limits to every pursuit,
that there are means which no end can justify. In the axiom
that the inﬂiction of torture upon any innocent creature
whatever for the beneﬁt of others is absolutely unjustiﬁable,
we have an indefeasible rule by which to decide the case in
point. The plea that it is for our own good rather aggravates
the offence; for it is then no other than the apotheosis of
that worst of devils, the devil of selﬁshness in his most detest-
able form, that of cruelty.”

It is the old choice between the way of Righteousness
and that of Mammon here presented to us ; whether we shall
strive to be worthy children of our Divine Father, whose
love and compassion ever ﬂows unto and sustains all His
creatures; or whether in the spirit of cowardly and base
self-seeking we banish light and pity from our hearts and
condemn multitudes of our sub-human fellows to inﬁnite
suffering in the hope of acquiring some personal proﬁt
thereby.

I have written 1n the hope that some of my readers may
be led to see this practice of vivisection in its true light, and
be impelled to use their most earnest endeavour 1n promoting
right knowledge, right feeling and right action concerning it,
so that its abolition be not long delayed, its dreadful shadow
be lifted from the lives of our lowly kindred, its stain cleansed
from our nation’s honour, its blighting iiiﬂuence upon all
moral and spiritual growth cease from our midst, and the
due and inevitable nemesis which follows such deeds may no
longer affect us and our descendants.

For be assured that in respect to this, which has been
1ightly named the meanest crime of our civilization, “ God
is not mocked, for whatsoever a man soweth that shall he also
reap."

12

 

 




 

 

Appendix I.

_~

SOME MEDICAL TEST‘IMONIESP AGAINST VIVI‘SECTION.

LAWSON Tam, F.R.C.S., M.D., I,L.D., Ex-Professor of Gynecology,
.Mason’s College, Birmingham. .

" Some day I shall have a tombstone put over me and an inscription upon it. I
want only one thing recorded upon it, and that to the effect that ‘ he laboured to divert
his profession from .‘the blundering which has resulted from the performance of experi-
ments on the sub-human groups of animal life, in the hope that they would shed light
on the aberrant physiology of the human groups.’ Such experiments never have succeeded,
and never can ; and they have, as in the cases of Koch, Pasteur and Lister, not only hin-
dered true progress, but have covered our profession with ridicule.”——-From a letter in
the Medical Press and Circular, May, 1899. .

“_Syme and Fergusson were the greatest surgeons I have ever known, and they
were right in stoutly asserting that Surgery has in no wise been advanced by vivisection.”

SIR WILLIAM FERGUSSON, F.R.S. (formerly Sergeant-Surgeon to the Queen).

" I am not aware of any of these experiments upon the lower animals having led
to the mitigation of pain or to improvement as regards surgical details.” (Evidence
before Royal Commission, 1876). '

SURGEON-GENERAL Sm CHARLES ALEXANDER GORDON, K.C.B. (formerly
Honorary Physician to the Queen).

“ I hold that the practice of performing experiments upon the lower animals with a
View to beneﬁting humanity, is fallacious.”———(Speech at \Vestminster Palace Hotel,
London, June 22nd, 1892.)

SIR CHAS. BELL (Physiologist and Anatomist, formerly Professor 0/ Surgery,
University of Edinburgh).

“ Experiments have never been the means of discovery, and a survey of what has
been attempted of late years in physiology will prove that the opening of living animals
has done more to perpetuate error than'to conﬁrm the just views taken from the study
of anatomy and natural motions."———(Nervous Systems of the Human Body, p. 217).

HENRY J. BIGELOW, M.D. (Alember of the Massachusetts Medical Society, Emeritus
Professor of Surgery in Harvard University).

“ There is little in the literature of what is called the horrors of vivisection which
is not well grounded on truth. . . . A torture of helpless animals—more terrible,
by reason of its reﬁnement and the effort to prolong it, than burning at the stake, which
is brief—is now being carried on in all civilized nations, not in the name of religion, but of
science. . . . By far the larger part of vivisection is as useless as was an auto-da-ie.
. The law should interfere. There can be no doubt that in this relation there exists
a case of cruelty to animals far transcending in its reﬁnement and in its horrors anything
that has been known in the history of nations. There will come a time when the world
will look back to modern vivisection in the name of science as they now do to burning
at the stake in the name of religion.”——Extracts from Anesthesia, Addresses and other
Papers, 1900, p. 363.

FORBES WINSLOW, D.C.L., OXON., M.R.C.P., LONDON (Physician to the British
Hospital for Mental Diseases; Physician to North London Hospital for
Consumption, etc.)

“ In my opinion vivisection has 0 ened up no new views for the treatment and cure

of diseases. It is most unjustiﬁable an cruel, and in no way advances medical science.”—-—
(American Humane Association’s Report on Vivisection, p. 13).

I3

“W7 ~~~ c':rﬁ'wg,—.—-‘ »

 




 

 

 

 

Cans. BELL‘TAYLOR, M.D., F.R.C.S.

“ If anything could exceed the hideous cruelty of the whole business, it would be
the childish absurdity of the claims to beneﬁt which are being constantly put forth by
the advocates and promoters Of the system.”-——(Address before Medico—Chirurgical Society
Ongottingham, November 16, 1892).

JAMES E. Gmmsort, M.D. (Senior Professor of Surgery, M edico-Chlrurge’cal
College, Philadelphia).

“ I am without words to express my horror of Vivisection, though I have been a

teacher of anatomy and surgery for thirty years. It serves no purpose that'is not better -'

served after. other manners."—.-'—(I,,etter to American Humane Association’s Report on
Vivisection, 1895, p. 1.3). .

WILLIAM J. MORTON, M.D. (Professor 'of N eruous and M meal Diseases at the

N. York Post Graduate Med. School and Hospital): -

“ If mankind suﬁfers from disease it‘is its own fault; to be cured by the rectiﬁcation
of the (muses which lead to it; and it is subversive Of the high and moral Order of the
progress of humanity to inﬂict pain or death upon other living animals to abolish or
minimize disease or suffering due to mankind’s own faults. In the end, the retribution
to the race which does this will equal and offset the advantages temporarily gained.
One crime or fault does not excuse or justify another.”-—(Letter to American Humane
Association's Report on Vivisection, 189 5, p. 13).

GEORGE WILSON, M.D., LL.D., EDIN., F.R.S., D.P.H., CAMBRIDGE.

“ There are not a few who doubt whether all the agonies, inﬂicted on animals sacri-
ﬁced in the laboratories of Continental workers in bacteriological research, or even those
at home . . ; have saved one single human life, or lessened in any appreciable degree
the load of human suﬂerz‘ng."-—Page 443 Of the 8th Edition, 1898, of the Handbook of
Hygiene and Sanitary Science.

" I accuse my profession of misleading the public as to the cruelties and horrors
which are perpetrated on animal life. When it is stated that the actual pain involved
in these experiments is commonly of the most triﬂing description, there is a suppressio
veri of the most palpable kind, which could only be accounted for at the time by ignorance
Of the actual facts.”—-—From a paper read before the Section of State Medicine, British
Medical Association Annual Meeting, Portsmouth, August, 1899).

FRANcors ACHILLE LONGET, Vrvrsnc'ron (Late Professor of Physiology at the
Medical Faculty of Paris).

“ Experiments on animals of a different species, so far from leading to useful results
as regarded human beings, have a tendency to mislead us. In Seeking to beneﬁt man-
kind by Vivisection, it would be necessary to have recourse to pathological facts founded
on experiments on human beings.”——-(Quoted in Prize Essay on Vivisection, p. 23, by
George Fleming, F.R.G.S., F.H.S.L., of London, published in Philadelphia, 1874).

CHARLES CLAY, M.D. (THE LATE)...

“ As a surgeon, I have performed a very large number of operations, but I do not
owe a particle of my knowledge or skill to vivisection. I challenge any member of my
profession to prove that vivisection has in any way advanced the science of medicine,
ogstended to improve the treatment Of disease.”——(Letter in London Times, July gist,
I O).

GORDON STABLES, M.D., QM.
“ . . . I have never yet met a truly brave man who was not kind to God’s lower
creatures, nor do I believe that a man can be both cruel and brave ;, but the amount.
of cruelty that takes place in this country under the title Of legalized experimentalism

is horrible to contemplate. g It is ten times worse on the Continent, especially in such
institutes as those in Paris.”~(Letter in London Daily Telegraph, August 31, 1892).'

Jams H. CLARKE, M.D., London.

“ Our country, I trust . . . will purge itself from this, the meanest Of all its
crimes.”——(In a paper read before the Church Congress, at Folkestone, October 6, r892).-'

14‘

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

STEPHEN ’l‘owrssaxn, F.R.C.S.

“ ,I contend that these experiments, from a moral point of View, are criminal, inasmuch
as they often involve the unnecessary torture of sensitive animals, and that from a scientiﬁc
and ididactic point of view, they are worse than useless.”-:—~(Article" in The Animalsf
Friehd, April, 1896). ~ '

F. s. ARNOLD, M.A., M.B. (OXON).

if I believe that vivisection is a barren and misleading method of research from
whose practice no beneﬁt has accrued to humanity which would for a' moment be
considered by any? unbiassed person, cognizant of all the facts, to out-weigh the animal
suffering and human degradation it has caused, and still causes.”--(From article in
The Animals' Friend, January, 1895). ‘

“ I, believe that medicine and surgery have gained nothing by yivisection, that
it is, considered as a method of research, utterly barren and misleading, and bound in
the nature of things always to be so. I am, however, not putting forward an opinion
but stating a fact when I say that there is not one of the “ triumphs of vivisection,’
such as the antitoxin treatment of diptheria, Pasteurian inoculation for anthrax, hydro-
phobia, etc., whose utility is not strenuously denied by eminent physicians and sur eons
who are themselves supporters of vivisection. Vivisection, that is to say, has pro uced
absolutely nothing whose utility to " suffering humanity " is unanimously afﬁrmed,
even by the vivisecting fraternity itself."—r-(Letter to Abolitiom'st, September 15th, 1903).

0

JOHN ELLIOTSON, M.D., F.R.S. (Physiologist).

“ A course of experimental physiology, in which brutes are agonized to exhibit
facts already established, is a disgrace to the country that permits it.”-—-—(Elliotson’s
Human Physiology, p. 428).

EDWARD BERDOE, M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P.

“ I have seen the rise and fall of Pasteurian quackery, the ﬁasco of Koch’s tuberculin
and the diptheria antitoxin nostrum, and every day conﬁrms my belief that vivisection,
founded on cruelty, supported by falsehood, and practised for selﬁsh ends, is not the method
by which the merciful art of healing can be improved; nor can it be shown that any
disease can be cured by any method derived from it.”

S. MILLS FOWLER, MD. (Professor of the Practice of Medicine in Dunham
M edical College, Chicago).

“ I am utterly opposed to the practice of vivisection. The brutality manifest in
its employment is a disgraCe to our civilization. It disgraces not only those 'who employ
it, but also those who witness it. It should receive the unqualiﬁed condemnation of
every civilized person." - .

ARTHUR GUINNESS, M.D., F.R.C.S.

" When I reﬂect on the abominable cruelties inﬂicted on them (animals) by such
callous beings as M. de Cyon and many others, I regret to say, of my own countrymen,
I can truly say a thrill of horror comes over me, and also disgust when I think that man-
kind can be so degraded as to commit such horrors.”--(From letter in Oxford Times,
October, 1902). , .

Dar. SURGEON-GENERAL' Thomson, C;B.

“ There is no doubt that vivisection is an immoral practice, and can only be defended
on the principle that the end justiﬁes the means—a principle which has been used in past
times for the defence and justiﬁcation of all kinds of cruelty. . . . This principle
undermines morality itself, and opens the door to crimes of every description, all of which
can be defended if we once admit that it is right to do evil that good may come.”-——-(From
the Principal Claims on behalf of Vivisection, 1901, p. IO). .

PROFESSOR SPOONER (of the Royal Veterinary College).

“ Gentlemen, allow me to protest in your name and mine against all attempts to
raise up Schools of Vivisection. The act is an abomination to all our most enlightened
feelings—a tor or and darkness extinguishing our best sources of knowledge; in short,
it is arrant an horrible sepoyism wearing the mask of Art and Science."-—( Veterinarian ‘
for 1858, p. 614); ,. ., . . , , .- _ . .

.15

 

 




 

 

Sm ’l‘norms WATSON, MD. (Ex-Presidea-zl Royal College of Physicians).

“ One of the greatest physicians that ever lived . . . Sir Thomas Watson
told me not long before he died that young men had to unlearn at the bedside what they
had learned in the laboratory."-——(From speech of Canon Wilberforce, London, June
22nd, 1892).

AUGUSTUS BROWN, M.D.
“ I can only say I am entirely opposed to the practice (vivisection) which I regard

as both very cruel and unnecessary."-—'(From “ Replies to circular letter of Friends
A.V. Assoc,” 1900, p. IO). " ‘ ‘

J0me MCLACHLAN, M.D., F.R.C.S.

“ Vivisection is absolutely incompatible with the teachings of Jesus Christ and with
the profession of a Christian."—-'-(From the same, p. n).

‘ pH. H. S. DORMAN, MgD.

“ I can assure you I abhor the thought of such practices. Besides, I believe they
are of no practical utility.”-—(From the same, p. 21).

J. MAY, M.R.C.S., etc.

“ I think it immoral to purchase man’s physical well-being or advantage at the
expense of the sufferings of animals; especially when such physical good is gained at
the cost of spiritual deterioration (to the operators).”-——~(From the same, p. 22).

FRANCES HOGGAN, M.D.

“ I have long held that animals should be protected from all kinds of abuse and
most of all from scientiﬁc cruelty. I have had painful experience of the callousness
engendered by the habit of mind which sees in the living animal only material for research.”
--(From the same, p. 2 5).

E. H. HAWKER, M.D,

“ I believe that vivisection blunts the moral sense to such a degree as to become
a strong force in the production of criminals."—(From the same, p. 14).

ALLAN Mom-KING, M. D.

“'Vivisection is an unmanly crime."——-(From the same, p. 14).

MATTHEW WOODS, M.D. (Philadelphia, U.S.A.)

“ The medical profession is not made up of vivisectors; but, on the contrary,
men who could no more do a vivisection than they could commit arson, murder, or any
other inhuman violation of moral law.”-—-(From a letter to the Daily News, 3rst August
1903 .

R. E. DUDGEON, M.D.

“ In my long experience as a medical practitioner and a not unobservant student
of physiology and pathology, I am not aware of the slightest beneﬁt to the sick and
suffering that has resulted from the vivisection of animals.”—-(From letter to The Times
March, 1902). .

W. R. HADWEN, M.D., L.R.C.P.

. " As to the subject of vivisection generally, I view it as a useless and unscientiﬁc

practice, and, in the words of the good Lord Shaftesbury, ‘ an abominable sin.’ It is
an inhuman practice, a relic of the barbaric past, which ought to be prohibited by law.”
“(From a letter to the Daily News; August 28th, 1903).

DR. PAQUET, PARIS (formerly Medical-Inspector 0/ the Enlants Assistés
de la Seine).

“ Vivisection is useless in the study of medical science; in the study of anatomy,
for which the dissection of the human corpse suﬂices, and in the study of surgery, the
practiml operations on a corpse on the one hand, and the daily accidents in which urgent
surgical aid is required, on the other, being all that is necessary for the student."

‘16

 

 

 

 




“ It is also useless in the study of physiology, for, if we are to-day. cognisant of the
functions of the organs, it is through having treated them when injured. It is in the
‘ clinique,’ and not in the vivisecting room, that we have learned the physiological réle
which each organ in the human body plays.

“ In order to study the action of medicinal matters, would it for a moment enter
into the head of a serious practitioner to imagine that what passes in the body of a
healthy animal would be the same as in that of a sick person. Never!

“ Therefore, if vivisection is useless, the practice of it is criminal, since it provokes
suffering by which no one is beneﬁted.”-—(From New York Herald, Paris Ed., March
20th, 1904). .

 

PROF. LEON MARCHAND, M.D., PARIS,

“ It is an error to suppose that vivisection has given any true scientiﬁc notions to
either surgery or medicine. It is quite the contrary. I have always found what are
called ‘ scientiﬁc experiments ’ not only strange and inhuman, but illusory and dangerous,
and I am astonished that all my brother doctors do not recognise the inanity of th -
‘investigations ’ as practised by the vivisectionists."-—(From the same.) 4 '

 

DR. EDGARD Hrer, PARIS (Physician to the Necher Hospital).

“ I am decidedly hostile to vivisection, of which the vivisectors make an intolerable
abuse; for they cause wretched dogs, rabbits, and guinea-pigs to suffer in order to
obtain not only problematical results, but those which are in no way interesting. Perhaps
in historical times certain experiments may have been justiﬁed, when made by great
physiologists with moderation and humanity. Now it is the contrary; vivisection
itsh practised even by students. It is a useless torture, and a sterile cruelty! ”—-(From

e same).

 

DR. NICOD, PARIS.

" From a scientiﬁc point of view I consider that vivisection cannot do otherwise
than divert right judgment into error, the vivisectionists operating upon the healthy organs
of animals, whereas the operations practised upon man are only done upon organs afﬂicted
with divers maladies. As to the moral point : no beneﬁcialresult for humanity can be
obtained by practices so barbarous and cruel. The only good result which could be
obtained would be to vivisect human beings, and my advice to vivisectors is that they
should commence be operating upon each other ! "-—(From the same). , .

DR. C. Mummy, PARIS.

" While studying medicine in the hospitals I was at one time charged with the
functions of preparing the physiological experiments. _ It was for a short time only,
as I could not support the sense of horror which these vivisections caused me. I consider
them to be useless cruelties. I never learnt anything from them, and I consider the
campaign against vivisection noble and humane.”-—(From the same).

DR. SALIVAS, PARIS."

“ I consider,” he states, “ that vivisection is immoral in the highest degree. It is
as useless as it is immoral, and I condemn it absolutely. The immortal Hippocrates
never vivisected, yet he raised his art to a height that we are far from attaining to-day,
in spite of our pretended great modern discoveries, discoveries which have, for the most

art, the result of introducing into medical science extravagant theories which it will
most diﬂicult to eradicate.”-—(From the same).

DR. HERVOUET, PARIS.

“ I do not recognise the right to destroy a living organism except in self-defence.
My reason for this is nearly a religious one. I condemn absolutely vivisection, and not
only vivisection, but hunting, pigeon-shooting, and all killing which has only pleasure
for its end.”-—(From the same). '

 

 

DR. Lavorsm, PARIS.

“It is most ur ent that vivisection should disappear from the programmes for:
the teaching of st ents."——-(From the same). '

 

I7

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

V Appendix II.

SOME LAY TESTIMONIES AGAINST VIVISECTION.

THE LATE Loan Omar Jnsncn Consumers.

“ What would our Lord have said, what looks would He have bent upon a chamber
ﬁlled with the ‘ unoﬁending creatures which He loves,’ dying under torture deliberately
and intentionally inﬂicted. , . . . . A wrong to the creature is, moreover, an
insult to its Creator, and a double insult when we bow to that Creator as a ‘ God of Love,’
whose ‘ tender mercies are over ALL His works.’ To perpetrate cruelty that good may
come is therefore blasphemy—there is no such thing as necessary cruelty more than
necessary sin.”——(Fortm'ghtly Review, February, 1882).

BISHOP BARRY, D.D., D.C.L., Canon of Windsor, Late Primate 0/ Australia. _

“ For humanity at large to seek its own supposedgood at all hazard of wrong-doing
and cruelty to the weaker creatures of God, is surely of the very essence of selﬁshness.
To hold that the increase of physical comfort, the removal of physical pain, the prolonga-
tion of physical life, are the supreme objects, for the sake of which we may demoralise
our higher humanity, is simply a worship of the ﬂesh, unworthy of a true man, impossible
to a true Christian. To sin for these purposes against God’s creatures, bound up with
ourselves in the great chain of organic being, and committed to us as made in His image
and having a delegatoir of His Sovereignity, is a prostitution of God-given power which
is almost a sacrilege.”——(Church Congress, Folkestone, r892).

Tm: BISHOP or DURHAM (DR. Wnsrcor'r).

" If He who made us made all other creatures also, and if they ﬁnd a place in His
Providential plan, if His tender mercies reach to them, and this we Christians most cer-
tainly believe—then I ﬁnd it absolutely inconceivable that He should so have arranged
the avenues of knowledge that we can attain to truths, that it is His will which we should

master, only through the unutterable agonies of beings which trust in us.”—-(Sermon in -

Westminster Abbey, August 13th, 1899).

THE LATE COLONEL INGERBOLL.

“ Vivisection is the inquisition—the hell—of science. All the cruelty which the
human—or rather the inhumanwheart is capable of inﬂicting is in this one word. Below
this there is no depth. . . . It is not necessary for a man to be a specialist in order
to have and express his opinion as to the right or wrong of vivisection. It is not necessary
to be a scientist or a naturalist to detest cruelty and to love mercy. Above all the dis-
coveries of thinkers, above all the inventions Of the ingenious, above all the victories
of ﬁelds of intellectual conﬂict, rise human sympathy and a sense of justice."-——(From the
Chronicle of St.'George, U.S.A., May, 1891).

MRS. BESANT.

" We still ﬁnd people in the astounding condition of incapacity to see the wickedness
of vivisection even after they have learned from the writings of vivisectors that it is
not a question of giving a few drugs to animals rather than to men, when the quality
of the drugs is unknown, but a question of submitting animals to prolonged torture
in the hope of adding a fragment of new knowledge to the store already accumulated.

. . It may be that public opinion will not take alarm until some members of the
ruling races are seized by the blood-stained hands of the grim tormentors, and are done
to death in quest of some obscure disease. The approval of vivisection is so distinctly
a selﬁsh passion, a clutching at a possible chance of gain for man at any cost to others,
that it seems but too probable that what the public calls its conscience will not be aroused
until its. own members are within measurable distance of the torture trough. . . .
The black sorcery of savage magic has no horrors so terrible as those of the vivisectors."
(From the Theosophical Review, December, 1897).

Vreron HUGO.

“ Viviseetion is a crime. The human race will repudiate these barbarities."—-
Reply to Pres. French A. V. Society.

18

 

 

 




 

 

Gnomes MACDONALD. LLB.

“ May my God give me grace to prefer a hundred deaths to a life gained by the
sufierings of one simplest creature. He holds his life as I hold mine, by ﬁnding himself
where I ﬁnd myself. Shall I quiet my heart with the throbs of another heart ? soothe
my nerves with the agonised tension of a system ? live a few days longer by a century
of shrieking deaths ? It were a hellish wrong—a selﬁsh, hateful, violent injustice. It
is true we are above the creatures, but not to keep them down ; they are for our use
and service, but neither to be trodden under foot of pride, or misused as ministers, at their
worst cost of suﬁering, to our inordinate desires of ease."--(From “ Paul Faber, Surgeon.")

CARDINAL MANNING.

“ I take the ﬁrst opportunity that has been ofiered to me to renew publicly my
ﬁrm determination, so long as life is granted me, to assist in putting an end to that which
I believe to be a detestable practice without sciemiﬁc result, and immoral in itself. . . .
I believe the time has come,and I only wish we had the power legally, to prohibit altogether
the practice of vivisection. . . . . Nothing can justify, no claim of science, no
conjectural result, no hope for discovery, such horrors as these. Also it must be remem-
bered that whereas these torments, reﬁned and indescribable, are certain, the result is
altogetherconjectured—everything about the result is uncertain but the certain infraction
of the ﬁrst law: of mercy and humanity.”-—Speech, June arst, r882.

CARDINAL NEWMAN.

“ Does it not sometimes make us shudder to hear tell of them (cruel experiments
on animals). . . . It is the cold-blooded and calculating act of men of science, who
make experiments on. brute animals, perhaps merely from a sort of curiosity. . .
Now what is it moves our very heart, and sickens us so much as cruelty shown to poor
brutes ? I suppose this ﬁrst, that they have done us no harm ; next that they have no
power whatever of resistance ; it is the cowardice and tyranny of which they are the victims
which makes their sufferings so especially touching; . . . there is something so
very dreadful, so Satanic in tormenting those who never have harmed us, and who cannot
defend themselves, who are utterly in our power," etc.-—(“ Parochial and Plain Sermons,"
Rivingtons, 1878.) '

JonN Ruser.

“ These scientiﬁc pursuits were now deﬁantly, provokingly. insultingly separated
from the science of religion ; they were all carried on in deﬁance of what had hitherto
been held to be compassion and pity and of the great link which bound together the
whole Creation from its Maker to the lowest creature.”—(Speech at Oxford, December
9th, 1884.)

(Ruskin resigned his chair as Slade Professor 01 Fine Arts, in the University of

Oxford, as a protest against the inclusion of vivisection among its methods of teaching.

CANON Wrmmoacn.

“ . . . We say that what is called vivisection is morally indefensible ; we believe
it is also absolutely scientiﬁcally unsound, and we are also more and more convinced
that it is one of the very greatest possible evils to the human race."-(From Speech
in St. Jam'es' Hall, May 9th, 1899.)

EDWARD MAIILAND, B.A.
“ The practice of vivisection involves the reversal of every principie by following

which man develops these higher planes of consciousness which raise him above the -

animals. It means the abandonment of all our moral gains, and a return to the rudi-
ments of existence. If vivisection be right then has the world crusted and mankind
striven and suffered in vain. If the sacriﬁce of others to self is to be the rule for ever,
let us at once declare might to be right, and vivisect our women and children—any who
are unable to protect themselves.”-—(From letter to Examiner, July 17th, 1876.)

I9

 

 




l
l,
'. i

.w

I!

. v.—

,---W;;;3.3, .

 

 

Appendix I II.

The following Extracts show the attitude of the Medical Press in reference
to Vivisection at the time of its general introduction into England, about
the middle of the last century, and will serve to indicate the degree to.
which, in these days, their ethical standard has been lowered by the
inﬂuence of those who practise it. , ‘

“ MEDICAL TIMES AND GAZETTE.”
September, 1858.

whether any. excuse can make them (vivisectional experiments) justiﬁable P ”

October, 1860.

" We are sure that the profession at large will fully agree with us in condemning
experiments which are made simply to demonstrate physiological or other facts which
have been received as settled points and are beyond all controversy." .

March 2nd, 1861 (Editorial).

“ We think that the repetition 'of experiments before students . . .- is to:

be condemned.”
August, 1862.

" When the result of an experiment has been fully obtained and conﬁrmed its repetition.

is indefensible.”

i" LANCET.”

Aug. rrth, 1860 ; Oct. 29th, 1860.
Site Editor condemns the repetition of vivisectional experiments in language similar
to 9. ve.
Its leading article of Aug. 22nd, 1863, contains the following terribly realistic picture
of its practice and its uncompromising condemnation of such procedures.

“ The entire picture of vivisectional illustration of ordinary lectures is to us per-'

sonally repulsive in the extreme. Look, for instance, at the animal before us, stolen

(to begin with) from his master ; the poor creature, hungry, tied up for days and nights,

pining for his home, is at length brought into the theatre. As his crouching and feeble
form is strapped upon the table he licks the very hand that ties him. He struggles, but
in vain, and uselessly expresses his fear and suffering, until a muzzle is buckled on his
laws to stiﬂe every sound. The scalpel penetrates his quivering ﬂesh. One eiiort only is
new natural until his powers are exhausted—a vain, instinctive resistance to the cruel
form that stands over him—the impersonation of Majendie and others of his class. ‘ I
recall to mind,' says Dr. Latour, ' a poor dog, the roots of whose vertebral nerves Majendie
desired to lay bare to demonstrate Bell’s theory, which he claimed as his own. The
dog, already mutilated and bleeding, twice escaped from under the implacable knife,
and threw his front paws around Majendie's neck, licking, as if to soften his murderer
and ask for mercy. Vivisectors may laugh, but I confess I was unable to endure that
heart-tending spectacle.’

“ But the whole thing is too horrible to dwell upon. Heaven forbid that any des~
cription of students in this country should be witness of such deeds as these I: We re-
pudiatethe whole of this class of procedure. Science will refuse to recognise it as its oﬁspring
and humanity shudders a: it gases on its face.” -

August 29th, 1863 (Editorial) speaking of the “ rather reckless expenditure of the lives
’ and feelings of cold-blOoded creatures," has the following :-—- .

“ The reckless way in which we have seen this poor creature (the frog) cut, thrown,-

and kicked about, has been sometimes sickening. . . . We cannot help feeling
there is both a bad moral discipline [or the man as well as . . . "

" BRITISH MEDICAL JOURNAL.”
May rrth, 186: (Editorial)

" It has never appeared clear to us that we are justiﬁed in destroying animals [or mere
experimental research under any circumstances ,- but now that we possess the means of
removing sensation during experiments, the man who puts an animal to torture, ought,
in our opinion’ , to be prosecuted."

20

We are inclined to believe that the question will some day be asked

 

 

 




 

May z,- 1863 , quoted from Editorial in “ L’Union Medicale,” of Paris.
Iwould gladly petition the Senate to forbid its performance on every

.animal which is useful to and a friend of man. ”

August 22nd, 1863 (Editorial).

‘We are very glad to ﬁnd that the French medical journals are entering proteSts
against the cruel abuse which is made of Vivisectlon in France.”
L’Abeille Medicale says:-—-—

.A . Let no one tell us that vivisections are necessary for a knowledge of phy-
siology. . ~ . . If the present ways, habits and customs are continued, the future
physician will become marked by his cold and implacable insensibility. Let there be
no mistake about it; the man who habituates himself to the shedding of blood, and who
is insensible to the suﬂerings of animals is led on into the path 0/ baseness. ”

October roth,1863 (Editorial) referring to a speech by M. Dubois at the Academy of
' -. Medicine, Paris
- “ M. Dubois showed to demonstration that . . physiological demonstrations

on living animals in the public (Medical) schools are utterly unjustiﬁable and a scandal

to humanity. In all this, we most thoroughly agree with him.”

June“ nth, 1864 (Editorial).

‘Far be it from us to patronize or palliate the infamous practices, the unjustiﬁable
practices committed in French veterinary schools, and in many French Medical Schools,
in the matter of vivisection. We repudiate as brutal and cruel all surgical operations
performed on living animals. We repudiate the repetition of all experiments on animals
for the demonstration of any already well-determined physiological question.”

(I have to acknowledge my indebtedness to Dr. Leﬂingwell’s pamphlet‘ ‘The RiSe
of the Vivisection Controversy,” published by the American Humane Association, for
most of these references).

Italics not in original Editorials.

 

Appendix IV.

W

HUMAN VIVISECTION.

" So far from vivisection saving human beings from being experimented upon, it actually
necessitates it. "—-—(JOHN M. CLARKE, M. D., London).

I give below a few instances (a full list would require 'many pages) in

whichmedical rn.en,.having their sense of honour and compassion
blunted by familiarity with vivisectional practice on the lower
animals, and desirous of professional distinctiOn or so-called thera-
peutic scientiﬁc knowledge (which in the very nature of things
cannot be gained by experimentation on sub-human creatures),
_ no matter at what cost to others, have violated alike the canons
'of common humanity, morals and professional ethics, as well as
the trust reposed in them, by subjecting healthy, sick, and even
dying persons and little children to what may be truly termed
human vivisection, and that without the knowledge or consent
of the victims, and with no view to their ultimate beneﬁt.

I am happy 1n the belief that the great majority of my profes—
sional brethren properly regard these procedures as inhuman, immoral,
and 'wholly indefensible; and records show that many of them have
lost no opportunity to denounce in the strongest terms the perpetra~
tion of such atrocities.

' Dr. HAHN, of Friedrickshain, admitted (in Deutsehe Med. Woehenschsri/t, 10th Nov. .,
1887,11 .987) that he had transplanted nodules from a cancerous growth in a female
patient to other parts of the body.

This proceeding was ﬁrst brought to the notice of the public and denounced strongly
by Prof. Cornil and Dr. E. Leidig; it created an immense sensation at the time.

21

 

 

 




    

\ .. .4 g .
yr"
”(mamas » . ‘ «, ..

 

 

 

 

‘ e_M/‘7«~/.,~ .v-

 

Dr. Dom (in a paper read before the Academy of Medicine, in Paris, 23rd June,
39x) describes similar procedures by himself on a female patient.

“ Dr. LUND, of Samso, purposely fed his infant son for 16 months on milk from
tuberculous cows, with the object of ascertaining whether the disease could be communi-
cated by this means to a human being. The child became the subject of a tuberculous
affection in consequence.”——The Practitioner for Nov. 190: (from Dr. Lund’s own report
in the Scandinavian Med. Archives, 1879, Vol. 11).

Bargigli inoculated two children with matter from a leprous tumour.—Reported
by Hirsch in Handbook der Historisch Geographischen Pathologie, 2nd Abtheilung, 1883,
p. 32.

Mary Rafferty, a servant girl, was admitted into the Good Samaritan Hospital,
Cincinnatti, with fracture of the skull osing the brain. As her recovery seemed hope~
lessher surgeon considered himself justi ed in experimenting on the brain by stimulation
by means of the electric current passed through needles inserted into various parts.

.These experiments were said to have been undertaken as supplemental to those fer/armed

in England by Dr. F errier on cats and monkeys. Full details given in Britt's Medical

Journal, of 22nd May, 1874.

Similar experiments to the last were performed on an Italian, Rinalducci, in the
Hospital, at Turin, March 2 3rd, 1882, and of which an account was given by the operator,
Dr. Egio Leamanna, in a paper on " Phenomena produced by the application of the

_ electric current to the Dura Mater."

The British Medical Journal, July 3rd, 1897, gives an account by Dr. Sanarelli, of
Monte Video, of his inoculations of human beings with the speciﬁc germs of yellow fever.
Original article in Anuali d’Igiene Sperimentale, Vol. VII., p. 441, et seq.

In Deutsche Medisinische Wochenschrift, Nos. 46 to 48, 1894, are accounts by Dr.
K. Menge, of University Hospital for Women, Leipsic, of his inoculation of three new-
born babes, and thirty-ﬁve other patients with various morbid materials.

In the Bulletin of the John Hopkins Hospital, for July, 1897, Henry J. Berkley,
M.D., describes his experiments on eight insane persons. He says 2—“ It was directly
for the purpose of ascertaining the toxicity (poisonous qualities) of one of the best-known
varieties of the thyroid extract that these experiments were undertaken."

The Medical Record, of New York, September 10th, 1892, contains an article by an
American Surgeon giving details of the inoculation of little girls with Syphilis.

The Medical News, of Philadelphia, April rst, 1899, published an article referring
to the “ inoculation of cancer from man to man," done, “ both intentionally and success-
fully ” by an experimenter, who “ is discreetly silent with regard to details."

. Dr. Ernst Weltheim reports having inoculated four paralytic patients and one idiot
wrth a painful and serious veneral disease, in Deutsche Med. Wochenschrift, 1891, No.
60, and Archiv lilr Gynaecologie, Bd. 42, 1892.

Professor B. Grassi reports his administration of the ova of well-known intestinal
worms to a boy of seven, with the result that within three months 143 were evacuated,
in Centralbl. lair Bacterial. u Paras, 1887, Bd. I. p. 13x.

Professor Epstein records the results of a similar experiment to that of Grassi’s
by himself on three children, in The Physician St. Petersburg, 1891, p. 972.

Professor H. S. Hubbenet describes his inoculation of two persons with syphilitie
virus, in The Medical Military journal (Russian), Part 77 (1860), pp. 432-7.

Dr. J. W. Stickler, cf Orange, NewJersey, presented a paper describing theinoculation
by him (with the object of proving his theory that the virus of the one disase renders
the patient immune to the other) of two children with " Foot and Mouth Disease,”
and subsequently exposing them to the infection of Scarlet Fever. He had been experi-
menting on these lines for years, for he says :--

“ In the early part of the year 1883, I inoculated twelve persons with virus obtained
from horses. . . . These twelve persons were also inoculated with human scarlatinal
blood, after they had been inoculated with equine virus. During the summer of the same
year I inoculated thirteen children, all of whom had been, or were at the time of inocu-
lation, exposed to the inﬂuence of air contaminated by the breath and exhalations of
scarlatinal patients. . . . During the past year I have inoculated two children
with the contents of a vesicle produced on the abdomen of a calf by inoculation
with the virus of a patient who had had scarlet fever.” (Italics mine.)

A full summary of these child-vivisections was published by The Medical Record,

in New York, December 10th, 1887, and later by four of the principal medical jounrals
of the U.S., Without a word 0/ Editorial, criticism, protest or_,nmonstrance.

 

22

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

Appendix V.

 

To those unacquainted with, or desirous of acquiring a knowledge of, the

methods of Vivisection, I would recommend a perusal of the under—
mentioned books :

A CATECHISM 0F VIVISECTION (The whole subject argued in all its details). B
E. BERDOE, L.R.C.P., M.R.C.S., I/-; SWAN, SONNENsanIN & Co.

BROKEN GODS (a reply to Mr. Stephen Paget’s “ Experiments on Animals ”). By
- ED. BERDOE, L.R.C.P., etc., I/-; SWAN, SONNENSCEEIN & Co.

VIVISECTION, A VIEW FROM WITHIN, By STEPHEN SMITH, M.R.C.S., I /- ; LONDON
A. V. SOCIETY, I3, Regent Street, W.

PRUITLESS EXPERIMENT (An Examination and Critical Analysis of the Claims

advanced on behalf of Vivisection) Edited by STEPHEN SMITH, M.R.C.S., Il-
nett; LONDON A. V. SOCIETY, I3, Regent Street, W.

And of smaller publications :———

TEE UiSELESSNESS or VIVISECTION. By Lawson Tait, F.R.C.S., M.D. etc. 2d. post-
Ice.

LAST SPEECH. By Lawson Tait, F.R.C.S., M.D., etc. Id. post-free.
VIVISECTION: Is IT MORALLY JUSTIFIABLE? By Dr. C. Bell Taylor. rid. post-free.
LEGAL AND ILLEGAL CRUELTY. By Edith-Carrington.

All published by London A. V. Society, I3, Regent Street, W.

VIVISECTION. By the late Lord Coleridge, LOId Chief Justice of England.

THE PRINCIPAL Cums ON BEHALF or VIVISECTION (a Refutation). By Dep. Surgeon.
General Thornton, C.B. 3d.

Published by National A. V. Assoc” 92, Victoria Street, SW.

A MEDICAL VIEW or THE VIVISECTION QUESTION. By Dr. Hadwen. 2d. And the series
of powerful pamphlets by the same author.

Published by the British U Man [or the Abolition of Vivisection, 32, Charing Cross, S.W.

TEE Um FUTILITY or VIVISEc'rION. By Herbert Snow, M.D. 2&6. post-free. And
the Reports of the Public (A. V.) Debates of Miss Lind af Hageby.

Published by the International M edioal A. VélAsigciation, 224, Lauderdale Mansions, M aid.
e, .

BEYOND THE PALE (an Appeal on behalf of the Victims of Vivisectlon). By Mona Caird.
3d.

A SEN'rmEN'rAL VIEW OF VIVISECTION. By Mona Caird. 3d.

'11:: SHAMBLES or 8mm. Extracts from the Diary of Two Students of Physiology
(Miss Lind of Hageby, and Miss Schartau). 1/2 post-free.

To be obtained from The Order of the Cross, Paignton.

., 23

 




THE ORDER OF THE CROSS,

PAIGNTON, ENGLAND.

Oﬂicial Journal :
“THE HERALD OF THE CROSS."

A journal whose teachings appertain to the Gospel of the New
Interpretation, setting forth the Evolution of the Soul as a spiritual
process, and. the nature and meaning of Christhood as the Crown of the
Soul’s Evolution. "A 150 giving the true readings of the Ancient Hebrew
Scriptures and the Teachings of the Christ, in which Purity in Diet,
Thought and Feeling, and Love made manifest in Compassion unto all
Souls, and Pity unto all Creatures were set forth as essential to the realixa~
tion of the Pure and Good Life.

“ The Herald of the Cross ” is published Monthly by Messrs.
Percy Lund, Humphries & Co., Ltd., 3, Amen Corner, E.C. It can be
obtained direct from Head-quarters for 3d. for a Single Copy, or 25. 6d.
per annum post-free.

Separate volumes of the “ Herald,” bound in imitation parchment
for the years 1905-6-7—8 and 1909 respectively, can be supplied at
35. Iod. post-free in United Kingdom, 48. 2d. Abroad

All Ofﬁcial Correspondence in conneCtiOn with the work of The
Order of the Cross should be addressed to the Hon. Secretary, “ Fern—
dale,” Woodland Park, Paignton.

-- Concerning Human Carnivorism.

By Rev. ]. TODD FERRIER.
Price, in Art Linen, Eighteenpence, post-free.

This is one of the most powerful and interesting books that has ever been written
to advocate Humanity and Purity in Diet. It will be recognised as a necessity in the
library of every Food Reformer. ,

Its six chapters deal with The Records of History. the Testimonies of Science, Some
Economic Problems, Dynamic Value of Pure Food, A Plea for Humaneness, and The
Voice of Religion.

This little book is better than the title, if only because it grapples with Vivisection as
well as ﬂesh-eating ; and m other ways it pleads [or H umaneness as a ﬂower that must grow
along the royal road of Divine Loves—LIGHT.

What is a Christian? By the REV. J. T. FERRIER. Post-free, 4d.
each; 2/6 a dozen ; 15/- a hundred. In Art Linen, 9d. each.
Dietetic Difficulties. DR. R. H. PERKS. Price Id. 2/6 per hundred,

post-free.
This pamphlet is a guide for those adopting pure diet, in the selection
of suitable foods to replace ﬂesh meats.

‘ LEAF LETS.
The Habit of Flesh-Eating. By REV. J. T. FERRIER. 2/6 per 100.
How to Realize the Divine. By REV. J. T. FERRIER. 2/6 per 100.
Christmas. a Vision of Hope. By REV. J. T. FERRIER. 1/6 per 100.
The Temple of the Body. By. REV. J. T. FERRIER. 1/6 per 100.
The Divine Man. By REV. J. T. FERRIER, 1/6 per 100.
Humaneness. By Dr. R. H. PERKS. 1/6 per 100.
These Prices are post-free.
Published by the Order of the Cross. Paignton, England.

 

_ ‘— ~ a; 1.
-_ M .; ‘e: “r ,4 A )H . _ ,, ,. ,

_“ .. ...—,../,_..i_.._..«.. .
. ‘2 “ﬁe—NVW“
4 <‘,. . U m... .

 

 

 

 

 

 

‘42,“...- ‘ '
A. A ..

_.. -KW

1;;13.~,._:w_.~;_

—-..-.

 

i... ,f‘

,Mﬁ.-..._.... ._ _ ”maﬁa.

‘—

w.

 

' Printed by Percy Land, Humphries & Co., Ltd., Bradford and London. 257m

‘ w. 1-“:1’ 4-.—-'—‘—-—————_——-

aa-‘w

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

The Story of Anna Kingaford and Edward Maitland, and of the New
Gospel of Interpretation; by EDWARD MAITLAND, B.A. Price 3/10
post—free in United Kingdom ; 4/2 abroad.

“ A psychic history of unblemished veracity and astounding facts—-
supremely interesting—dull of beauty and perfect simplitciy of purpose ;
and showing that the ﬁg tree of the inward understanding is no longer
barren, which has budded and blossomed and borne fruit.”——LIGHT.

Clothed with the Sun; by ANNA BONUS KINGSFORD, M.D.;
edited by S. Horooon HART. New Edition. Price 5/4 post-free
in United Kingdom; 5/7 abroad.

This is a Book of Wonderful Illuminations concerning the Divine

Mysteries.

The Book was ﬁrst published in 1889, edited by the late Edward

Maitland, B.A., from whose pen there is a valuable preface.

The subject matter comprises Illuminations concerning the Soul,
the Planet, The Christs of God, and the Divine Kingdom.

The Perfect Way; or The Finding of Christ ; by DR. ANNA KINGSFORD
and EDWARD MAITLAND,‘ B.A. Third Edition. Price 6/4 post-free
in United Kingdom; 6/8 abroad.

Also a Special Edition in Wrappers (unabridged). Post-free 1/4 in
United Kingdom ; 1/5 abroad (U.S.A., 36 cents).

“ If the Scriptures of the future are to be, as I ﬁrmly believe they
will be, those which best interpret the Scriptures of the past, these
writings will assuredly hold the foremost place among them. ..
They present a body of doctrine at once complete, homogenous, logical
and inexpugnable, in which the three supreme questions, Whence
come we ? What are we ? Whither go we ? at length ﬁnd an answer,
complete, satisfactory and consolatory.”—-BAR0N SPEDALIERI (The
Kabalz'st).

“ It is impossible for a spiritually intelligent reader to doubt that
these teachings were received from within the astral veil. They are-
full of the concentrated and compact wisdom of the Holy Heavens
and of God. If Christians knew their own religion, they would ﬁnd
in these priceless records our Lord. Christ and His vital process abun~
dantly illustrated and conﬁrmed. That such communications are
possible, and are permitted to be given to the world, is a sign, and a,
most promising sign, of. our age.”-—REV. DR. JOHN PULSFORD.

The Life of Anna Kingsford; by EDWARD MAITLAND, B.A. A New
Edition in preparation.

The Bible's Own Account of Itself ; by EDWARD MAITLAND, B.A-
Price, Paper 7d., Cloth I /8 post-free in United Kingdom or abroad.

Dreams and Dream Stories. By ANNA (BONUS) KINGSFORD.
Edited by EDWARD MAITLAND. Third Edition. Preface and Notes
by S. H. HART. Post-free 3/10 in United Kingdom ; 4/2 abroad.

The Perfect Way in Diet; by DR. ANNA KINGSFORD. Price, Paper-
I/Ii, Cloth 2/— post—free in United Kingdom or abroad.
A Message to Earth. Price [/3 post—free in United Kingdom; 1/6
abroad.
Published in conjunction with the writings (The Perfect \Vay, (to),
rec0gnised by the Esoteric Christian Union as appertaining to the
“ New Gospel of Interpretation.”

 

To he obtained from THE ORDER OF THE CROSS. PAIGNTON. ENGLAND.

 




tie {ch 4&9

HE Council of the Order of the Cross will be
glad of the sympathetic co-operation of all
true friends of the Creatures, in the circulation .

of this Pamphlet with a view to the total abolition
of the terrible evil of Vivisection. { . h;

t '.

1 .

®E€$®

 




