Issued by Independent Anti-Vivisection League.

VIVISECTION.

 

 

 

By Mrs. MONA CAIRD.

 

 

attention of late has revealed some very interesting and

remarkable points of View, and has, shown what sort of

general theory of right and wrong an immense number of
people really hold, while sincerely professing lofty ideals, ethical
and religious.

The supporter of vivisection, be his dogma what it may, makes,
explicitly or by inference, this profession of faith: That we are morally
justiﬁed in inﬂicting torture on other sentient creatures, provided we
can gain something by that means for ourselves and our kind. Those
who, holding a religious creed, share this point of view, imply also of
necessity this further doctrine: That the Ruler of the Universe has
created beings capable of pain, and has deliberately given them to us
to torture and ill-use at our pleasure—provided only that we expect to
win something to our own advantage from their anguish. We are
driven to the conclusion that if the pro—vivisectionist is a believer in
any form of religion, he perforce represents his God as a ﬁnished
demon; if he believes only in the human origin of morality, he
proposes the same line of ruthless conduct to man. It is well to see
clearly what is really urged and asserted by the supporter of this
practice, when he comes to us with long lists of beneﬁts alleged to
result from it, and pleads eloquently in its favour, with that bait to
to our selﬁshness held temptingly in his hand. For what is really his
counsel? That we shall be just, and generous, and merciful towards
those who can hit back, if we attack them, or who can defend themselves
with the help of the State, but that when we ﬁnd a race absolutely
helpless, absolutely in our power, we shall at once drop such ridiculous
sentiment, and proceed to subject these creatures to any sort of savagery
that may be necessary for our purpose. We must throw over every
principle hitherto held sacred, and abuse our power (in so far as our
object may demand) in the name of heaven and humanity!

Now this seems a somewhat startling ethical conclusion for those to
arrive at who profess to believe in any moral responsibility at all, and it
would be interesting to hear how the pro-vivisectionists would justify this
stupendous paradox. No serious attempt has yet been made to justify it.
That side of the question has been consistently ignored. The public
have been assured that these experiments are “necessary,” that they
bring in a harvest of knowledge by which the public will gain, and people
are warned that if science may not be advanced by experiments on living
animals, it will have to be advanced by experiments on living men and

mill? controversy on vivisection which has been occupying public

 

 

 

 




 

2

women. Strange as this threat is, it has appeared again and again in-
‘this controversy, and is put forward as a genuine argument. Surely
this is a signiﬁcant indication of the present trend of thought and of the
attitude of mind induced by accepting the principle of vivisection. It
the public will not be sufﬁciently moved by self-interest, then let them be
moved by fear. The Profession announces its determination to have
living subjects of some kind or another. Let the public choose!

The opponents of this practice might say, “ Let the public reﬂect! "
With regard to the evidence of agony inﬂicted on animals by dissecting
them alive, it can be examined by anyone for himself at ﬁrst hand. In
the published literature on the subject, there are hundreds of references
to journals and works on physiology where the original accounts can be
found. The ofﬁcial reports show the great increase in the number of
experiments of all kinds, and especially the painful ones, during the last
ten years or thereabouts. It will also be seen there and elsewhere that
anaesthetics are very far indeed from being used in almost all experiments,
as has been so frequently stated. Moreover it must not be forgotten by
those who really wish to get at the truth of this question, and not merely
to soothe their own feelings, that in instances where the animal is sub-
jected to a severe Operation, even though anaesthetics are used, the agony
after recovery is terrible. Everyone knows that wounds cause the worst
misery some time after they are inﬂicted, though the utmost possible
care is taken of the sufferer. What must be the misery of the subjects of
a vivisector’s experiments, even in the case of the very best of his class?
It is singular, but a fact, that many persons seem to be reconciled to the
practice of dissecting live animals if they believe that the operator does
not torture for torture’s sake—an act of devilry that he is not accused of.
Having announced his regret at the pain he inﬂicts, he gains assent to
its inﬂiction. The human mind is past ﬁnding out, or we might ask,
Why this singular complaisance?

The vivisector is so good as to deplore the anguish that he causes;
consequently he must be a humane man, and it is ridiculous to interfere
with him. Let him continue his researches among the nerves and
tissues of living creatures. His regret is his justiﬁcation in the eyes of
many, but it is to be feared that it does not soften the torments of
the animals he operates upon. We are reminded again and again that '
vivisection has a noble object. And the noble object? That of
enabling the ungrateful public to escape the consequences of its own
sins and follies, and those entailed upon it by the sins and follies of its
ancestors. The physiologist spends laborious days in trying to thrust
the unpleasant consequences of human sin on to the shoulders of the
innocent. He thinks not of himself. He works for others. “ If you will
do it for me, I will do it for you.” Such is the tacit compact. Let
each consider only the public good, and so secure his own. Vivisection
thus is justiﬁed in many minds by the importance of its object. The
hope of gain sanctiﬁes the deed. Yet when a man commits a murder,
it is not usual to acquit him on the ground that he was mentioned in his
victim’s will, and hoped therefore to proﬁt by the crime. We are not




3

‘0

likely to be moved even if he pleads that he will now be enabled to
subscribe to charitable institutions. We should be disposed to regard ,
the benevolence of a murderer in an irreverent spirit. An advocate
could scarcely venture to urge these expectations in defence of his
client. The victim must be friendless indeed before one could enter
upon such a line of defence with a light heart.

If the doctrine be morally defensible, it can be brought into harmony
with the ethical standard. Let the inquirer into this subject examine the
nature of the acknowledged right of human beings to immunity from
torture, and show, if he can, why this plea is not also valid in the case
of other sentient creatures.

If it be not the capacity for pain that grants exemption to the human
being, what is it? What else has any relation to the torture from which
he claims to be held protected? Is the important and saving qualiﬁca-
tion, intellectual endowment, moral excellence, or usefulness to the State?
But why should any of these qualities protect us from being tortured for
the good of humanity, since not one of us could prove that his value to
others was greater in his present capacity than it might be if. some
beneﬁcent discovery could be made through his anguish? If it be not
our capacity for pain that is to be held our plea for exemption, what
have we to urge P Absolutely nothing.

Society is civilised in proportion as its individuals agree to protect
one another from the aggression of the mass. The innate desire of
man to gain at another’s expense has to be resisted by combination;
otherwise society, in our sense of the word, could not exist. The
sacredness of personal right is the element that resists the tendency
to return to mere savagery. The good of the whole is not gained, but
lost, when the rights of the individual are treated with contempt.
Therefore, no argument based on the general good is sound, even from
the point of view of the general good, which proposes to gain its end by
injustice towards the individual. We have abundant precedent for our
stupid cruelties and our short-sighted selﬁshness. The ancients also
bestowed, on purely arbitrary grounds, protection against torture pro bono
puélz’co. A Roman citizen was safe, simply because he was a Roman
citizen, whereas mere accident of birth, or status, or religion was
suﬂicient to condemn a man to the torments of the amphitheatre. The
object was a good one, as it is in the case of vivisection. It was
necessary to keep the populace amused. Great disturbances were
created by a discontented people, and suffering might be caused to
thousands by their agitations. Very likely most slaves and gladiators
were inferior in the scale of nature to the citizen of Rome; at any rate
the latter thought so, and it was these persons, with a sprinkling of
Christians, whom he chose to have torn to pieces for the people's
pleasure. He saw no wrong in it. How should he, when one of the
noblest and tenderest men who ever lived, the Emperor Marcus
Aurelius, attended the performances? Now here we have precisely
the reasoning of the vivisectionist. If it be sound, we have no right

 




4

whatever to condemn the horrors of the amphitheatre, or to oppose
their repetition to-morrow; if it be unsound, we have no right whatever
to exclude any sentient creature from the circle of protection. For this-
becomes obvious: the claim to immunity from torture must be based
either on the capacity to feel it, or on some arbitrary fact entirely
unrelated to the torture, such as nationality, or age or sex, or religion,
or moral excellence, or some mere accident, as in the case of the-
gladiators, who had to expiate the crime of ﬁghting for their country
on the Roman arena. Now what conceivable connection can there be-
between these fortuitous circumstances of birth or estate or pure ill-luck.
and the torments from which we claim to be held exempt? The incon-
sequence is as grotesque as would be that of placing all persons with
curly hair on the condemned list, and granting safety to the fortunate-
possessors of lank tresses.

If we see the absurdity of this inconsequence, and what it may
justify, we are driven to conclude that we can only rationally base our
claim to exemption on the fact that we possess a nervous system which:
may cause us horrible suffering. What, then, are we to reply to the
appeal of the animals? On what ground are they to be outlaws from
our pity or protection? Does not their claim rest on the same basis as
ours?

The Roman citizen considered his slaves and his gladiators inferior
to himself in the scale of being, probably with perfect justice; but from
that point his logic took a wild leap to the conclusion that therefore“
they were proper subjects for torture. Our own logic is no better.
As for our superiority to our victims (entirely beside the point as we
have seen it to be), it cuts but a sorry ﬁgure when we propose in the
same breath to abuse our advantage so savagely. Where, in this
case, is our boasted superiority, dastards that we are? And if the
intellect is left scornful and unsatisﬁed after examining the excuses for
this “our meanest crime,” as it has been well called, how must the-
heart be outraged and every generous instinct be put to shame by a.
practice that does violence to all sound and decent human feeling, that.
demands double-dealing on the part of the bewildered conscience,
shufﬂing on the part of the reason, and an almost inconceivable cal-
lousness towards the agonies of innocent and affectionate creatures ?'
If vivisection were able to bestow upon us all that it has hoped to'
bestow, it would then have failed to really beneﬁt humanity; for in
inducing us to encourage and accept the gains of cruelty, it would.
lower the whole moral standard and taint the conscience of mankind,
and from that depression of the better side of our nature nothing could
ever spring but bitter wrong and misery for all who were luckless
enough to be the heirs of that great misfortune. From hardened
human hearts we do not gather the fruits of human happiness, or
human progress. If we sow cruelty, cruelty we. shall assuredly and
deservedly reap.

Price 5d. per dozen ropz'es.

 

Printed by McCORQUODALE & Co. LIMITED, “The Armoury,” London, S.E.

 




