, 3 THE
PLEASURE OF KILLING

By L. LIND-AF-HAGEBY

necessary ingredient of pleasure? Must they kill, in

order to enjoy the blessings of Nature ? Have they no
pity, no imagination, no sense of beauty ? Autumn comes with
its earthly feast of colour and fruit ; moor and field and forest
spread their choicest treasures, and the very stars are lavish
with their jewelled light. This is the time when the thought
of killing is uppermost in the minds of men. The devotees of
” sport ” gather up their implements of death and hurry to the
green and purple spaces where birds may be massacred and deer
pursued to the last breath. Kings and princes, jaded politicians,
overfed plutocrats, preachers of the Gospel of Christ—~all run
to taste the joys of the battue and the chase. And the women
follow them, docile, thoughtless, paying homage to fashion and
tradition. ~

Is it not the season for “ sport ” and house parties, for the
display of taste in clothes and lavish hospitality? The half-
tame pheasant and partridge which tumble to earth in their
thousands, dead or wounded, skilfully driven to the guns of
sedate and comfortable gentlemen, are probably too unintelli-
gent to appreciate the pleasure to which they administer. The
deer that flee before the gun of the stalkers are no doubt
incapable of appreciating human superiority.

“ What does it matter,” you may ask, “ a little fright, a
brief moment of terror, a swift death on the wing—a flight into
the blue haze of the autumn morning and then oblivion and
death? ” Do we die as easily, as thoughtlessly as they do?
The exact measure of pain—mental and physical—~in any living
creature is a matter of difﬁculty. We are all apt to overrate our
own intelligence and to put an enormous value on our own
capacity for suffering. Imagine for a moment the members of
the shooting-party turned into game for the sport of super-
human pleasure-seekers. See in your mind’s eye great parlia-
mentary orators run for their lives, unarmed generals scuttle
away in vain attempts to woo the protection of trees and

QRE men so constituted that the shedding of blood is a

 




 

thickets, bevies of perfect gentlemen dyeing the ground crimson
as the bullets of some giant creature of ” sport ” find the vital
spots. Where would the fun be P

Is it sport to hunt and shoot helpless creatures P Have the
birds, reared and fed by the hand of man, protected and
guarded, until the hour for the joy of killing comes, a fair
chance P If you must fight an animal, go and wrestle with bears
in the wilderness or run to meet a pack of hungry wolves or face
a herd of wild elephants. You could then demonstrate your
courage, hold your valiant heart high for the admiration of
those who can see no bravery but that which comes of the
strong body.

There have been angry denunciations of pigeon shooting from
traps in the Press and in Parliament. Why all the fuss about
Monte Carlo and the few English “ sportsmen ” who prefer
pigeons from traps to pheasants from feeding-boxes P Many
pigeons escape in spite of the limitation imposed on liberty.
The difference in sporting chance is only slight. But we are
all inclined to

Compound for sins we are inclined to
By damning those we have no mind to.

The Spanish bull-fight, held now in the South of France,
causes shudders of righteous indignation in warm-hearted
British sportsmen who see no evil in deer stalking, otter hunting,
hare coursing or fox hunting, to whom the holy rite of being
“ blooded ” at an early age is nearly as sacred as infantile
baptism. They might with advantage expend a little mental
energy in comparing the courage of the toreador who faces the
enraged bull with that of the otter hunter who, himself outside
possibility of attack, urges hounds to maul a small inoffensive
creature. The bull-fight is admittedly a brutal game of blood
and danger, of fierce passions and primitive lust. It does not
masquerade as a tea-party.

Why all this joy in killing P The butcher who slays a bullock
for food is not expected to tremble with pleasure in the act of
killing. If he does he is denounced as a cruel and loathsome
“ brute.” The people who wring the necks of domestic fowls
for the table are not supposed to treat the process as a diversion
from sterner duties. When should we enjoy killing animals
and when not P

To kill for food and to kill in self-defence are acts which fall
into entirely different moral categories from that of killing for
pleasure. Can goodness, mercy, fellow-feeling, understanding,
all the attributes which go to make civilised man, guide one who




deliberately, hour by hour and day by day, amuses himself by
killing P Up to a point, Yes. For he would not dream of potting
running babies, black or yellow or white, or demanding a covey
of condemned criminals. Not even if through such sport his
appetite for luncheon would be raised to heights hitherto
unachieved. ,

The problem is the simple and commonplace one of partial
and patchy goodness. Human nature will shed tears over one
abomination and enthusiastically take part in another. These
Slayers of the innocent, these desecrators of the face of Nature,
these sorry parodies of “ sportsmen ” have, as yet, reached no
moral level from which they can perceive the hideousness of
their pleasure.

They tell us they are admirers of Nature, of the vast open
spaces of the earth, of God’s blue sky. They write books about
the chase, the shoot, teeming with good stories and brimming
over with good fellowship. They expatiate on the skill of
marksmanship. They describe the victim with good-humoured
interest, thankful to the Creator for His good service in pro-
viding so many animals suitable for “ sport.” They even fancy
themselves the regulators of Nature’s mistakes and abundance,
for they assure us that animals would overrun the earth and
become a menace to Man if their mighty organisation for killing
were disturbed. Meanwhile they take good care by artificial
preservation and breeding to keep a plentiful supply of birds
and beasts for the amusement of the slaughterers.

The love of blood-sports, however daintily served up,
however hypocritically defended, is identical with the joy of
shedding blood and destroying life exhibited by certain savages.
The Victim may be small, insignificant. It may be absolutely
harmless, incapable of showing a spark of fight—~yet killing
offers amusement and satisfaction.

A devastating war which killed and maimed millions of men,
strewing the fields of Europe with corpses, did not abate the
taste for spilling blood. A great statesman could not find the
peace complete until he had killed a tiger, even though one
solitary tiger must be hunted with half a hundred men, seventy
elephants and scorching fire. ‘

The word taste is constantly used to express different levels
of refinement and culture. “ Good taste ” and “ bad taste ” are
terms wherewith the conventionally correct can be made to
wince. What kind of taste is this which seeks amusement in
inﬂicting death and pain on others ? Blood-stained bodies
falling to the ground, hares panting for breath in a last attempt

 




 

to escape before being torn by the hounds, fox and cubs in
pathetic efforts to save their lives. Are these sights which good
taste seeks for special delight? No human soul can rightly
claim good taste or refinement who desires such forms of
recreation. Nobility of mind is incompatible with lack of pity.
Strength of mind is not attained by slaying seven hundred brace
of grouse (a feat enthusiastically recorded recently of an exalted
party) in a single day.

Criticism of “ the good sportsman ”--a term which often
simply means a good butcher—penetrates with difﬁculty the
common belief that the pastime of killing beasts and birds is
inseparable from what is known as “ Society.” Custom and
fashion have followed such sport for centuries, and who dare
oppose it P Country life would be too dull without it. Protests
have been few and faint. Herbert Spencer in his dry, blunt
way of judging human frailties declared of cover shooting with
beaters that “ except when there is love of killing for its own
sake, it yields but little pleasure.” * Wagner looked into the
eyes of a dying deer and never killed another. Poets, thinkers
and humanitarians have turned with disdain from these
“ pleasures.” But “ Society” continues to treat shooting and
hunting as essential if life and Nature are to be enjoyed.

Can nothing penetrate the dense fog of conventional ethics
of killing ? Is it impossible to see that “ sport ” involving attack
on another must include a fair chance of retaliation, resistance,
or escape on the part of the creature attacked P Merely to
slaughter, with all the paraphernalia of a modern shooting-party,
is utterly unsportsmanlike. Sport at the expense of another
should at least involve some risk to the sportsman, some great
effort, some danger of counter—attack. To stand or sit protected
from every danger on a stage—managed moor and kill hundreds
of inoffensive, defenceless creatures cannot be called sport.

’ Autobiography, Vol. II, page 229.

 

(Reprinted by special permission of the author and editor from
“ Progress To-day,” October—December, 1937.)

NATIONAL SOCIETY FOR THE ABOLITION OF
CRUEL SPORTS

4 Tavistock Square, London, W.C.l
Publication No. 38 Price 1d.

 




