ar‘

.A'ﬂ’l - 0%...“

.A v? 4“. m- _...r ‘N‘ rat-him; . m

£ ':
O
2;
L '
|
|

”5‘ ’32)

“hm—m...“ .. _ a WA .4“.

‘r

W: ,

\‘K

. " wt w r-v«‘"vnsu~cmqu

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 




 

 

THE GOOD

EARL OF SHAFTESBUBY

ON

‘VIVISECTION.

 

 

PUBLISHED BY THE
BRITISH UNION FOR ABOLITION OF VIVISECTION.

OFFICE: 20, TRIANGLE, BRISTOL.

 

Price 2d.

 




Printed by PEWTIIEHS :13 00.,
28, Lynn; QUEEN STREET, lhuu IIOLL'URN, LONDON, “KC.

 

 




‘BECORD.

FRANCES PU IVER UUBBE.

LORD SHAFTESBURY never joined the Victoria
Street Society; it was the Society which joined
Lord Shaftesbury. There was a day in November,
1875, when, having telegraphed to me his readiness
to support our project, he practically founded the
Society. It was around him, and attracted in great
part by his name, that the whole body eventually
gathered.

It was at the third meeting of the Executive
Committee, on the 18th February, 1876, in Dr.
HOGGAN’S house in Granville Place, that Lord
SHAFTESBURY for the ﬁrst time occupied the Chair.
He again took it (vacating it on the entry of the
Archbishop of YORK) on the 1st March, when the
“ Statement ” of the Society was formally adopted.
Shortly afterwards he consented to be elected
President; and thenceforth practically directed all
the public action of the Society, and such of its
interior concerns as I (then Hon. Sec.) thought
ﬁt to submit to him for counsel. -

On the 20th March, 1876, he headed a great
Deputation to the Home Ofﬁce to press on Mr.
(now Lord) CROSS the introduction into Parliament
of a Bill in accordance with the recommendations
of the Royal Commission. Among the members of

 




 

4

this deputation were Sir EVELYN WOOD, Cardinal
MANNING, the Earl of MINTo, Sir FREDERICK
ELLIOT, Right Hon. A. J. MUNDELLA, Mr. FROUDE,
Mr. LESLIE STEPHEN, and Lord MOUNT-TEMPLE.
The Memorial of this deputation having been
favourably received by the HOME SECRETARY, Lord
SHAFTESBURY again presided at a meeting of the
Committee, and framed suggestions which, on being
presented to Lord CROSS, were embodied under his
direction in Lord CARNARVON’S Bill. In support of
this Bill in the House of Lords, on the 22nd May,
1876, Lord SHAETESBURY made his ﬁrst great speech
for our Cause. It was a long address, occupying
when printed a pamphlet of QZ pages, and in it he
displayed an exhaustive study of the then recently
issued Minutes of Evidence of the Royal Commis-
sion; and also of the arguments employed by the
advocates of vivisection. He told the Government
that “the feeling of the country was in favour of
Total Abolition; but that he was prepared to accept
the Bill which only imposed Restriction.” Lord
SHAETESBURY proceeded to give in brief but very
telling language descriptions of. the hideous experi-
ments of BRACKET and others, and quoted largely
from the Report of the Royal Commission.

On the 1st of June, 1876, Lord SHAFTESBURY
presided at the ﬁrst Annual Meeting of the Society,
at which the Marquis of BUTE, the Earl of
GLASGOW, and Cardinal MANNING took part. Con-
ﬁdent hopes were, at that time, entertained that
Lord CARNARVON’S Bill would be passed by the
House of Commons in the shape in which it had
come from the House of Lords. Unhappily, a
great Medical Deputation, got up by certain wire-
pullers of the profession (notably by Dr. ERNEST




5

HART) invaded the Home Ofﬁce on the 10th of
July, and placed such pressure on Mr. CROSS as to
cause him to eviscerate the Bill (then in his hands
for presentation to the House of Commons) and
leave it the mangled and illogical measure which,
on the 15th of August, became by royal signature,
the Vivisection Act, 39 & 4O Vict, c. 77.

In replying, a few days later, August 16th, 1876,
to a letter written to him by me in the deepest
dejection and disappointment, Lord SHAFTESBURY
explained why he had consented to allow this
mangled Bill to pass, rather than let it fall to the
ground. After mentioning that he had had an
interview with Mr. CROSS about the changes in the
Bill, which he deplored, he went on to say :

“But the question then was simply: ‘the
Bill as propounded, or no Bill,’ for Mr. CRoss
stoutly maintained that without the alterations
suggested, he had no hope of carrying anything
at all. I reverted, therefore, to my ﬁrst opinion,
stated at the very commencement of my
co-operation with your Committee, that it was
of great importance, nay indispensable, to
obtain a Bill, however imperfect, which should
condemn the practice, put a limit on the exercise
of it, and give us a foundation on which to build
amendments hereafter, as time and opportunity
should be offered to us.”

From that period the policy of the Society,—
as settled by a resolution of the Committee,
November 22nd—was “to watch the enforcement
of the Act and keep in view its extension to the
Total Prohibition of vivisection.” On this ground
Lord SHAFTESBURY next spring warmly approved
the support of Mr. HOLT’s Total Abolition Bill and

 




 

6

the exhibition in support of it by the Society of the
well-known illustrated posters over the hoardings of
London. He presided at the Second Annual
Meeting on April 27th, 1877, at which the Bishop
of WINCHESTER and Lord MOUNT-TEMPLE took
part—~the latter having shown from the ﬁrst, and
next to Lord SHAFTESBURY, the deepest interest
in the work of the Society. The third assembly of
the Society Lord SHAFTESBURY received in his own
house, 24, Grosvenor Square, on the 28rd February,
1878. In the August following the Society formally
adopted the principle of Total Abolition, and Lord
SHAFTESBURY wrote to me on my announcement of
the fact as follows :—

Sept. 3rd, 1878, “ Your letter is very
cheering. We were right to make the experi-
ment. We were right to test the men and the
law, Mr. CROSS and his administration of it.
Both have failed us, and we are bound in duty,
I think, to leap over all limitations, and go in
for the total abolition of this vile and cruel form
of idolatry; for idolatry it is, and like all
idolatry, brutal, degrading, and deceptive.” . . .

On the 15th July Lord TRURO having presented
his Bill in the House of Lords, Lord SHAFTESBURY
made, in supporting it, the Speech printed in the
following pages. No more aﬁectiiig sight could well
be witnessed than that of the aged philanthropist
who for sixty years had pleaded for justice for all
classes of human sufferers, standing up once more
among his peers to ask for mercy to the brutes ; his
voice faltering as he described their tortures.
\Vriting to me of the debate on the 16th July he
said :—“ Defeated, you see, by 6 to 1. . . . All the
papers seem full of contempt and hatred. . . .




7

CARNARVON voted against us. I had almost hoped
that he and some others would have stayed away.
But we have done our best, at least I did mine, and
that ‘ best’ being but small, was only instrumental in
obtaining 16 votes.” And again on July 18th he
added, “ Some good will come out of the discussion.
I have unmistakeable evidence that many were
deeply impressed. But obedience to political leaders
is a higher law with most politicians than obedience
to truth.”

The Annual Meeting for 1880 was held at the
house (8, Cromwell Houses) of those generous friends
of the Society, Mr. and Mrs. FRANK MORRISON;
and the President again took the chair. A few
days later he presented to Mr. GLADSTONE an
important Memorial, signed by 100 representative
men—Peers, Judges, General Ofﬁcers, and Heads
Of Colleges, &c.—to which Mr. GLADSTONE replied,
expressing his (unfortunately always inactive)
sympathy. The Meeting of 1881, at the house of
Lord COLERIDGE ; that of 1882 at his own house;
that of 1883 at 1, Grosvenor Place; of 1884 at
Prince’s Hall; and of 1885, at the Westminster
Palace Hotel, were, every one of them, presided
over by Lord SHAFTESBURY; who also took the
Chair at twoMeetings of the East London and
North London Branches of the Society. Beside
all these more public assemblies, Lord SHAFTESBURY
took the utmost pains to attend the meetings of the
Executive Committee; appointing with great care the
days and hours left “to him by his other innumerable
engagements, and never once failing to keep his
promise. His signature appears on the Minute-
Book of the Committee no less than 49 times. It
may be added that in none of the council ro,oms of

 




8

the charitable bodies, great or small, where he
worked, did Lord SHAFTESBURY show himself more
Considerate for everyone co-operating With him;
more genial and friendly and more completely
devoid of the morgue of which the Times has
accused him, than in the Committee Room of
Victoria Street. Punctual to the moment, he
always entered with the kindest of greetings for
each member present, and rarely failed to linger for
general conversation When the business of the day
was done; an extraordinary amount of business
having been usually got through in an hour or two
under his guidance. Nor did he only give his
invaluable counsels on such occasions. He often
called at the ofﬁce on other days beside those of the
Committee, and was at all times ready to receive
and advise me, either in personal interviews at his
house or by letter. I now possess 260 such letters
to me in his own handwriting; ﬁlled with Wise
advice and the kindest sympathy and encouragement.

But in truth, the actual work done by Lord
SHAFTESBURY for the Anti-Vivisection Cause, great
as it was, constituted only a small part of the
support he gave it by lending it the authority of his
great character, and infusing into it his lofty and
religious spirit. It is not too much to say that it
has been the soul of this righteous man—who
“ feared God, and feared nothing else,”—this man
with a single eye to justice and mercy, and no side
views to the Opinion of the worldor to self-interest,
which inspired the early band of Anti-vivisectionists.
While the apologists of scientiﬁc cruelty have been
outbidding one another in their appeals to human
cowardice and selﬁshness, and in their efforts to

 

 




 

9

coaX their countrymen to condone their hateful '
cruelties by bribes of discoveries which should pro-
long their lives, the members of Lord SHAFTE SBURY’S.
Society struck a higher note,—feebly no doubt, but
never falsely,—“ What if it be possible to relieve our
maladies by methods involving cruelty and sin?’
Not therefore will cruelty and sin be less abomin~

able.” '

When the members of the Victoria Street Society
rose at the annual meeting in July, 1885, to do
Lord SHAFTESBURY honour as he left the room, sad
forebodings were in many hearts that he had
occupied his seat for the last time, and spOken his
last words; that his venerable yet stately ﬁgure, his»
voice, enfeebled by age but resonant still with
courage and feeling, would be seen and heard
amongst those who so loved and honoured him, no.
more. But though the end came even sooner than
we feared, there was comfort in the thought that
the long, sad twilight of senility never fell on that
vigorous brain ; and that he was spared both bodily
pain and the inﬁrmities of failing senses. For him,
to have survived his powers of usefulness would
have been a terrible misfortune. A year before his
death, having spoken to the writer of these pages.
concerning the sufferings of women and girls, he-
said: “ \N’hen I feel age creeping on me and know
I must soon die,—I hope it is not wrong to say it,—
but I cannot bear to leave the worlcl with all the
misery in it.” Thus he, who if any man upon earth
might do so, looked forward with confidence to
entering at death “into the joy of his Lord,” yet
wished to live, because he could do somewhat to,

 




 

10

relieve the misery of man and woman, child
and brute. Other men have desired to remain in
the world because of the pleasures it offers them;
and others again have wished to quit a scene so full
of anguish and injustice. But Lord SHAFTESBURY
wished to live, because of the misery of the world I

This was the man who was our Leader. In his
spirit we must continue to work, each as our powers
permit. He will, we believe, remember the objects
of his earthly sympathy where he is; and perhaps
to such spirits as his it may be granted still to help
the wretchedness which they pitied here in other,
higher ways than the methods of our poor world.
But at least it is our part to struggle on in his
footsteps ; to take care that his labours in our cause
shall not fail ; to hold aloft the same noble standard
of principle which he carried before us, and to strive
to the goal of his longings and our own,—the ﬁnal
triumph of Mercy over false science and selﬁsh
cruelty ;—the TOTAL ABOLiTION or VIVISECTION.

 

 

 




 

 

11

Speed].

The following is the “ Times” report of a speech
delivered by Lord Shaftesburg/ in support of
Lord Truro’s Bill, in the House of Lords,
15th July, 1879 .-~

The Earl of SHAFTESBURY requested leave to say
afew words on this sad question. He said that,
notwithstanding what had been urged in answer to
the noble lord, that noble lord had done right in
presenting a Bill for the total abolition of the
practice of vivisection. Licences had been freely
granted for painful experiments; for dispensing
with anaesthetics, aud with the obligation to kill the
suffering animals after the experiment had been
performed. Now, if this was done under the
superintendence of a Secretary of State who had
brought in the Bill, and who had ever declared
himself, and truly, he believed, to be anxious for
every possible abatement of the evil, what were
they to expect from any one who might succeed
him, and whose opinions, tinctured by the idolatry
of the day, were that everything was to be sacriﬁced
to the Image of science ? No one, he believed, had
laboured harder than himself to carry the present
experimental Act. He had hoped much amelioration
from it, but he found none; and more especially was
be convinced of its inutility when he saw licences
and certiﬁcates granted to Dr. Rutherford, whose
abundant and cruel experiments were set out in the

 




 

 

12

report of the Royal Commission, and who himself
had declared that his experiments, to be conclusive,
must be tried on the living man. That professor,
moreover, did not stand very high in the medical
world. His attention had been directed to the
Hunterian oration by Dr. Moxon in 1877, in which

the professor’s doings were elaborately ridiculed,

which remarks were endorsed and supported by many
medical authorities. But the Act, he maintained,
was not only useless, it was delusive and misleading.

Many persons were lulled into the belief that by its.

provisions protection was afforded. So it was, no
doubt ; but it was protection to the Vivisectors, and
not to the animals. The noble Earl (Beauchamp)
had enlarged on the security of anaesthetics. He
(Lord 8.) might ask on that point some preliminary

questions. 1Were the anaesthetics administered at all?
Were they carefully and accurately administered ?

What were they? Were they effective? \Vas it
chloral? If so, a very weak application. was it
curare? If so, and he said it on the authority of
the great vivisector, Claude Bernard, that it caused
more suffering than it attempted to prevent. Was
it morphia? Why that only utterly subdued the
victim, without deadening the pain. There was

much delusion in all these assurances; there was.

little conﬁdence to be placed in them.

But no fact had more influenced his judgment
than the announcement of a public memorial to the
well-known operator on animal life, M. Claude
Bernard. This memorial was supported by many

of the most scientiﬁc men in England, who testiﬁed _
their admiration of his zeal and skill in this depart- ‘

ment of science. He asked permission to give one

specimen, out of many instances, perhaps hundreds,

 




13

of the deeds of that singular man. The extract
was taken from Claude Bernard’s “ Liquides de
l’Organisme,” p. 40 1——

“ We cut out the kidneys from a bull-dog [a pretty
statement to begin with]. Next day, twenty-four
hours after the operation, the dog, without being
enfeebled, appeared dejected, respiration was impeded,
and sighing. . He had vomited during the night.
He refused all food and avoided movement, appeared
to suffer, and at times cried out. In order that his
cries should not disturb the neighbours we applied a
muzzle pretty tightly. [What a spirit of consideration
for the peace of the locality !] When during the
day we returned we found the dog lying dead, his
muzzle bathed in a fetid ﬂuid, which he had vomited-
The muzzle had hindered the expulsion of the
vomiting and caused the animal to be suffocated by
it.” Such was the man that the philosophers
delighted to honour !

And that was the work of science !——of that which
its worshippers called science — and among the
promoters of the memorial might be found some
who had testiﬁed, in the strongest manner, against
the inﬂiction of needless pain, and the practice of
mere speculative vivisection. What then could be
a fuller proof of a cruel and morbid curiosity, and
what hope remained that investigators and Operators,
delighting in such things, would respect the principle,
and be restrained within the limitations of the Act?

Now further he observed that since the passing of
the Act, as well as before, many learned lectures had
been delivered and many learned treatises published
denying altogether the value of vivisection ; nay
more, maintaining that the results were fallacious
and more likely to lead to error than to truth. The

 




 

14

contradictions of vivisectionists were surprising.
They agreed in nothing but that the animals should
be cut up. NOW, the three following questions had
been propounded and admirably handled in a recent
work by Dr..Gimson :—

“1. Have vivisections and painful experiments
been of any scientiﬁc value? 2. Have they led to
the discovery of scientific facts of permanent impor-
tance? 3. Are there not fallacies underlying such a
method of interrogating Nature, which of necessity
vitiate the results ? ”

Many sound and really scientiﬁc men were pre-
pared to say “' No ” to the ﬁrst two questions, and
“ Yes” to the third ; and most justly too. For was
it not manifest that safe and accurate conclusions
could not be drawn from examinations of an animal
reduced to such an abnormal state ? Were it placed
under an anaesthetic, would not all its internal
functions—he did not pretend to use professional
language—be altered or suspended thereby, so as
utterly to nullify all close and reliable deductions as
to what might be the case in its natural and ordinary
state? Was it under the operation of the knife,
pure and si1nple—-—would not the pain, the terror of
the Wretched Victim, render the conclusions still
more fallacious? The Vivisectors, many of them,
felt the force of the argument. To evade it, they
asserted (and nevertheless had the audacity to call
themselves masters in science) that the poor animal
whined and winced, and gave every indication of
suffering, but that it was hard, dull, insensible.
Others, claiming some portion of humanity, rejoiced
that the animals had no forethought at least of the
tortures that awaited them; an argument which, if
of any value at all, might, in their zealous regard

 




 

15

for the comfort of the human race, be brought to
bear on the vivisection of idiots and babies.

But scientiﬁc men of this stamp should be listened
to when deploring their own ill success. What said
the famous Claude Bernard? Why, after thirty
years of operations on living animals he confessed:
“Our hands, without doubt, are empty to-day, but
our mouths full, it may be, of legitimate promises
for the future ; ” and he said no more, but yet that
was the sole result of countless experiments of the
most cruel description. And What said Mr. Ruther-
ford? He, Lord Shaftesbury, must again refer to
him. “His experiments,” he allowed, “were only
suggestive ofinferences, which, to become conclusive,
would require the experiments to be tried on man.”
Exactly so ; but what then has been gained by this
almost unprecedented torture of animals? Why,
the important admission that continued experiments
are useless, and that man himself must be subjected
to torture before that professor could arrive at a con-
clusion. And yet to this professor had the power
been renewed of the free and fruitless use of the
knife I The vivisection of man was no new thought;
the proposition had once been made by the great
professor Cheselden, and was rejected solely because
public opinion was not then ripe for such a step in
scientiﬁc pursuit.

He was happy to state that resistance was spread-
ing rapidly, and extending through all parts of
Europe and in America. Associations had been
formed in France, in Italy, in Germany, and in
Russia, for the total suppression of vivisection.
Persons of all ranks and degrees, professors and
learned men, were at the head of those associa-
tions, and much good had already been effected

 




 

16

at Alfort and at Florence by their combined
exertions.

It was impossible, he said, in discussing this
' question, to avoid the repetition of old arguments, and
the production of similar instances. The opponents
of the system urged, and urged truly, the brutalising
effects on the minds of the vivisectors, and on the
minds of those who approved them. He would quote,
in brief, but one instance, but it was a striking one,
and he implored their lordships to listen to it——it
was extracted from an address delivered at Dresden
by Baron Ernest von Weber, who took 'it from the
work of Professor Groltz, of the Physiological
Institution at Strasburg:—“ A very clever, lively
young female dog, which had learnt to shake hands
with both fore-paws had the left side of the brain
washed out through two holes on the 1st of
December, 1875. [He begged them to mark the
coolness and evident pleasure with which he thus
treated his pet companion.] This caused lameness
in the right paw. On being asked for the left, the
dog immediately lays it in my hand. I now demand
the right, but the creature only looks at me
sorrowfully, for it cannot move it. [Did their
lordships observe how he relished his barbarous
experiments ?j On my continuing to press for it, the
dog crosses the left paw over and offers it to me on the
right side, as if to make amends for not being able
to give the right. [Without that fact, recorded on
such authority, would it have been thought possible
that an educated man should have been insensible
to such an appeal? But he was so, and, revelling in
his science, he prolonged his amusement] On the
13th of January a second portion of the brain was
destroyed. [But that was not enough.) On the

 

 




 

 

 

 

17

15th of February a third, and on the 6th of March
a fourth, this last operation causing death.” Thus,
to gratify the peculiar taste of the inhuman wretch,
that poor little animal was kept under torture and
examination, as foolish as it was ferocious, from the
lst of December to the 6th of March, a period of
more than three months !

Now, in what way, he asked, was true science
advanced by such curious and reﬁned cruelty? In
what way was man beneﬁted or knowledge blessed
by such discoveries? And yet these were the
certain and necessary consequences of legalised
vivisection. Scientiﬁc men, he said, and, indeed,
others, who ought to know better, were pleased
to talk of the “lower animals.” In what sense
was the epithet “lower” to be applied to that
affectionate little thing? Had their lordships
observed its unabated attachment to its cold-blooded
master? Had they not been struck by its spirit of
forgiveness under treatment so cruel? Had they
not seen an exhibition of qualities that would have
become a thinking being? And that was the use
they made of the creatures committed to their
charge! that the account they would render of their
stewardship ! All he could say was—and he said it
truly and conscientiously—-—that in every respect he
would inﬁnitely rather be the dog than be the
professor. (Hear, hear.) But whether the law was
efﬁcient or inefﬁcient, whether vivisection was
conducive to science or the reverse, there was one
great preliminary consideration : On what authority
of Scripture, or any other form of revelation, he
asked most solemnly, did they rest their right
to subject God’s creatures to such unspeakable
sufferings? The thought had troubled the mind

 




 

18

of many vivisectors ; it had deeply touched the
heart of Sir Charles Bell. That they might take
the life of animals for food, or to remove danger or
annoyance, he fully admitted ; but be utterly denied
that they were permitted to indulge their curiosity
or even advance their knowledge by the inﬂiction of
exquisite torture on the sentient creation. They
were told in haughty and dogmatic style that the
secrets of nature could be learnt in no other way.
Learned in no other way ! Could it be believed that
the Almighty had issued such a decree ‘2 The animals
were His creatures as much as we were His creatures;
and “His tender mercies,” so the Bible told us,
“ were over all His works.” He, along with many,
repudiated such an atrocious and shallow doctrine;
and under that conviction he would ever do his best
to put down a system that was as needless as it
was cruel.

 

 

 




 

 

19

_ A BIRTHDAY ADDRESS

Anthony Ashley Cooper, 7th Earl of Shaftesbury, K.G.
APRIL 28TH, 1881.

For eighty years ! Many will count them over,
But none save He who knoweth all may guess
What those long years have held of high endeavour,

Of world-wide blessing and of blessedness.

For eighty years the champion of the right
Of hapless child neglected and forlorn ;

Of maniac dungeon’d in his double night ;
Of woman overtasked and labour-worn;

Of homeless boy in streets with peril rife ;
Of workman sickening in his airless den;

Of Indian parching for the streams of life,
Of Negro slave in bonds of cruel men ;

O! Friend of all the friendless ’neath’ the sun,
Whose hand hath wiped away a thousand tears,
Whose fervent lips and clear strong brain have done

God’s holy service, lo ! these eighty years,—

How meet it seems thy grand and vigorous ago
Should ﬁnd beyond man’s race fresh pangs to spare,
And for the wrong’d and tortured brutes engage
In yet fresh labours and ungrudging care !

O tarry long amongst us ! Live, we pray,
Hasten not yet to hear thy Lord’s “Well done! ”
Let this world still seem better while it may
Contain one soul like thine amid its throng.

Whilst thou art here our inmost hearts confess,
Truth spake the kingly Seer of old who said——
“Found in the way of God and righteousness,
“ A crown of glory is the hoary head.”

Frances Power Uobbe.

 




 




 




 




