DOYOU p
EAT EGGS.

STARTLIN G FACTS

 

 

Hen Batteries

Cruelty which the Purchaser
of Eggs Can Suppress

An Appeal to the

Public to put an end to
a Practice which causes
Suffering and Disease.
Do not Buy “ Battery

Eggs.”

 

 

. Published by
The Animal Defence and Anti-Vivisection Society
15, ST. JAMES’S PLACE, LONDON, S.W.1.

President : - Hon. Director:
The Duchess of Hamilton. Miss Lind-af—Hageby.

Secretary:
Miss L. K. ‘Schartau.

Price Twopence

 




 

HEN BATTERIES

Cruelty which the Purchaser of Eggs

can Suppress.

COMMERCIALISATION

Commercialisation of animals and birds: has
resulted in highly specialised industries in which the

exploitation of living creatures has been brought to a-

ﬁne art. They are bred and reared with the object of
securing the maximum amount of proﬁt with the mini;
mum amount of outlay and labour. Mass’production
methods are here and with them all natural ways of
living have disappeared. The latest of these abomina~
tions is the hen battery.

FACTS

We doubt if humanitarians realise the immensity
of the poultry industry. The production of eggs
in the United Kingdom in 1936 was estimated at
4,524,000,000”) The ﬁgures for 1937 and 1938
remained at about the same level. In 1937 there were
47,000,000 fowls (excluding ducks, geese, turkeys), on
agricultural holdings of over one acre.” This is apart
from fowls kept in backyards and gardens which are
estimated at 6,000,000.”) In 1913 each person in
Britain ate an average of 104 eggs a year. In 1936 this
had increased to 158 eggs a year.”) The annual output
of the poultry industry stands at £34,564,540.“") It is
estimated that if all imports of eggs in shell were
stopped 20,000,000 more fowls would be wanted in
this country.“

WHAT ARE THE BATTERIES LIKE?

There are various models on the market.“"‘ They
are built singly and in units. Some cages are made
entirely of wood, some entirely of metal, others of
metal and wood. Here are two types. In one the frame,
work of the cage is made of wood and wire, the front

*One model can be seen at the exhibit’on of the Animal
Defence Society, 15, St. James’s Place, London, SW1

2.

1 1. 11—H1k1_-4§-bnn 5L-




Mﬁrg. L? s—_

 

is a hinged wire grid. In another the cage is made of
wood and boxed in on three sides ; the front is a slatted
wooden frame. There are many variations on these, but
all cages have a wire netting ﬂoor,.-to.allow the birds
droppings to paSs through ;‘this makes’cleaning the cages
easier. The unit is a more common form. A block of
eight cages, back to back, four cages in a row, are:
arranged in three tiers to take 24 birds. Each block:
measures 5 feet long, 4 feet 4 inches wide (including
overhang of ﬂoor and feeding trOughs). In, this space
eight hens are caged. Cages are made 18 inches >< I4,
inches, 1'28 inches X 15 inches, 18 inches X 16 inches—-
18 inches wide X I4 inches long and 18 inches high
being the usual size of cage for an adult bird. Other
cages are made a few inches longer so that each-.“cage
takes two birds. In some instances two birds are kept
together in an ordinary sized cage 18 inches X I 5 inches.

water is kept at a low level in a continuous trough.

"- These troughs are so arranged that the hen often has

to strain to get at them; this is to avoid splashing, and
fouling the mash, which is placed in another trough.
VOften these troughs will hold a week’s supply of food.
The droppings board takes the form of a continuous

i roller belt, which is wound round and scraped at

intervals; or the board is some seven inches below the
wire—netting ﬂoor, so that droppings can accumulate
some three weeks without being cleaned. The wire,
netting ﬂoor slopes to allow the egg to roll away for
collecting. .

There are no nests. The hens never reach the
ground, never go outdoors.

The battery system is as mechanical as it is possible
to make it.

On many battery plants artiﬁcial lighting is pro
vided to- give an approximate “working day” of I4
hours. Night lighting is also provided for an hour to
give the birds an opportunity to take an extra meal.

WHERE THE BATTERIES ARE HOUSED

Batteries have the ‘advantage ” of ﬁtting in any?—
where. Under ordinary circumstances hens require
plenty of land, but under the battery system this can be

(

3

 




 

'9883 BugAe'I Alaneg “LL
1‘56: ‘pJEz [pdv ‘mw/m ‘Cumod sq; ude

 




 

dispensed with. The backyard poultryman can install a
few cages. If he is so minded he can knock them
together out of iron bedstead frames and wire—netting
(see the “ hints ” published by various poultry journals) ;
the commercial poultryman can keep hundreds or
thousands.

Some men keep batteries in the open, others use
old barns and sheds. Empty shops, and even old
derelict cotton and wool mills in crowded industrial

towns are used to house hen batteries.

The limits to which this craze for utilising empty

mill space will go, is shown by a poultryman in York—
shire who uses the two empty top storeys of a mill for
batteries, whilst cloth is produced on the ground ﬂoor.
Units of the cages are set in rows 6 feet or more apart
(for working space), and in each alley hang powerful
electric bulbs, suspended on ﬂexible wires to help with
closer inspection of the cages.
’ All over Great Britain this is happening. Here are
some actual instances of the cruelties caused by the
proﬁtable battery mania: A. converted shop houses
1,100 birds; a shed with a ﬂoor space 100 feet X 20
feet houses 1,000 birds; a room in a disused cotton mill
75 feet X 45 feet houses 1,044 birds; a shed, 82 feet X
27 feet, houses 1,080; a stone barn, 100 feet X 20 feet,
houses 936 birds; a shed, 80 feet X 15 feet, houses 650
birds; sheds covering half an acre of ground house
3,000 birds, and in another instance 4,000. There is a
tendency among p0ultrymen to set up their battery
plants as close as possible to the consumers, in order to
save on transport expenses. This can only mean that
the birds are removed further than ever from their
natural surroundings.

“ADVANTAGES” OF BATTERIES

The advocates of batteries claim: (1) That the
birds yield more eggs than under more natural con,
ditions. (2) The labour costs are a fraction of those
of any other system. “In a properly organised plant,
one man can attend to 1,500 birds in a 48/hour week.
The poultryman can work to a time—table and have
Saturday afternoons and Sundays free, working only

5

 




 

factory hours.”‘7’ (3) More space is utilised and more
birds can be kept. (4) There is not the same
waste of food. (5) There is absolute control " over
the birds. .“ Duds can be quickly detected and culled,
thereby allowing you to’ keep Only birds which are
showing an individual proﬁt.”(8’ These arguments are
concerned solely with proﬁt making, and they can be
dismissed by the humanitarian. ‘

Every hen is expected to lay a certain number of
eggs, failing that the bird is culled. An average is to
expect 180 eggs the ﬁrst year, and/or 140 in the second
year. Seldom is the bird allowed to live longer. The
battery cage then serves to fatten' the hen up for killing.
A record is very carefully kept of the number of eggs
laid. by each bird.

GETTING USED TO THE BATTERY.

It is not to be assumed, despite the glib statements
of poultrymen, that the birds calmly accept being placed
in batteries.

At ﬁrst pure/bred light birds were used, but they
began to succumb as they were not able to stand up to
the strain of the battery, owing to being too active,
flighty, and energetic. In an effort to remedy this
crosses of different heavy breeds, Rhode Island Red X
Wyandottes, Rhode Island Red >< Leghorns, etc., are
used. They have not yet succeeded in crossing the hen
with the battery I From her point of View it is certainly
regrettable that the human brain is so poor and faulty
a piece of mechanism that it cannot devise an entirely
artiﬁcial hen.

Year—old birds in lay when put into cages went
out of lay and began to moult, taking over two months
to recover. It takes a bird six weeks or more before it
becomes reconciled to battery life and begins to settle
down. Some birds prove “sulky” and have to be
culled. And for the ﬁrst few days droppings from the
birds are an unhealthy colour—proof of a deﬁnite upset.

IS THE HEN HAPPY?

Whilst it would be foolish to assume that hens
have a similar mental make»up to humans, it must be

6

 




 

granted that a hen has some sort of brain. She is not
a machine. She has been turned through centuries of
man’s treatment into an egg/laying creature. The wild
jungle fowl produces a clutch of 20 eggs which she lays
generally during the spring season. The modern hen’s
laying season is stretched out so that shelays ten times
as many eggs. Even so she still has many natural
instincts. Comparing the farmyard fowl, with all her
many interests, scratching here and pecking there, her
sociable life with other farm animals, and her own kind,
clucking to her chicks, etc., with the battery hen, it
illustrates the terrible calamity of the battery hen’s
life—boredom.

To be shut up, perched on a few inches of sloping
floor space, and that made of wire netting; closed in
by metal bars!

“One might suppose‘that they have hardly room
to turn round.”‘9) “ The bird receives very little exercise
as the cage is just about large enough for her to turn
round in.”‘10) Mr. C. A. S. Hannaford, a Dorset battery
cage maker, is honest enough, in advertising his cages,
to say : “ These cages embody . . . comfort for the birds
as far as the (battery) system will allow.” “ It is
essential in running a battery to pay frequent visits to
the birds. The small diversion so caused is beneﬁcial,
the hens being stimulated to take a greater interest in
life when someone is amongst them.”‘“’ To what
must the hen be reduced when she plays with her
compressed food pellets ? A poultry journal”) bitterly
complains : “'Mr. Lee has experienced the same trouble
with pellets as Mr. Swepstone. Certain pullets take a
malicious pleasure in dropping them on the ﬂoor to
see them bounce.” This shows rather a surprising
amount of intelligence on the bird’s part since she thus
seeks to mitigate her boredom.

A broody hen in a cage is usually left to get over
it as best she may.

Birds have a ”delicate sense of touch and are
reluctant to pick up food from a hard surface, no doubt
owing to the jarring received every time the beak comes
in contact with it. For this reason food hoppers should
be made of wood, and not metal as in many types of

7

 

 




 

From Catalogue of Harry Hebditch, Ltd.
Several thousand Layers’ Cages in actual use may be inspected at our Experimental
Farms at Martock.”

U




aw

We
saw

batteries. Being unable to peck on soil, birds have a
tendency to develop overgrown beaks; this is remedied
by paring the beak with a knife. As the beak is a
sensitive organ it is cruel to keep the bird in a cage with
so many metal parts. Lack of exercise causes overgrown
toes and nails. On being lifted out of a cage a bird
ﬂops about unable to use her legs.

After the 2 years’ egg~laying jail sentence the hen
is fattened up for eating, and capital punishment
follows, the last bit of proﬁt she yields. '

DISEASE !

Man will continue to treat animals as machines in
order to increase ﬁnancial proﬁt, but he cannot evade
the result of his inhumane exploitation, which is disease.

The National Veterinary Medical Research Associ~
ation estimate the loss from disease to be over £4,000,000
annually for adult laying birds alone. Birds have now
an average life of less than 18 months. Death—rates
have doubled during the last ten years. The Report of
the Poultry Technical Committee for Great Britain‘”)
shows the extent to which disease is ravaging the
poultry industry to be threatening its existence. .

Now we are beginning to hear complaints from
poultry farmers as to the harmful effects of batteries
on the birds! It is only possible to keep a battery
going by frequently examining the birds, scrapping those
which are unsatisfactory, and replacing them with
others. As examples of this, in a battery plant of 1,008
cages, 141 birds died during the year, representing a
total of 14.38 per cent., 21 of the deaths were due to
malignant tumours.(14’ In a battery plant holding 1,000
birds, in one year 812 birds were culled.‘15) That means
that in 12 months, out of 1,000 birds only 188 withstood
the battery ordeal.

These replacements are evidence of obvious cruelty.
Normally fowls are very healthy , creatures. But
unnatural conditions break down natural resistance and
so bring disease, and disease always means suffering.
Exposure to sun, air, wind, and rain is essential to
health. The battery denies the hen these.

9

 




 

Wrong feeding is another vital factor in the causa/
tion of disease. No matter how cleverly the scientist
mixes. his poultry foods he cannot do it half so well as
the hen. Theoretically these foods answer the purpose,
but the mortality rate among battery hens suggests that
in actual practice the feeding is all wrong. Lack of
vitamins results in disease; lack of or an overdose of
minerals result in faulty growth or faulty bone formar
tion; too much salt results in poisoning. Too much
protein (and this seems to be the main evil) leads to a
digestive disturbance, the unwanted protein has to be
excreted by the kidneys and sooner or later they fail to
work. Heavy egg yields necessitate heavy feeding and
this is bound to disturb the hen’s metabolism.

“Fowls that have been kept in intensive houses
or battery cages, if given their liberty, immediately start
eating grass. They soon have enough of this and turn
to scratching where soil is exposed and eating earth
-—one might think it was grit they were after, but,
although they pick up a few pieces of. stone, they are
actually swallowing beakfuls of soil. . . . Hens are often
called" dirty creatures ’ because they drink in rain water
puddles and eat the mud, rather than use their care;
fully supplied clean drinking water.

“All these birds are trying to right the mineral
shortage in the foods given them and feel the lack when
deprived of the fruits of the soil. Minerals artiﬁcially
added to mashes can never be the same as grass and
soil eaten by birds living on range.”““’

Heavy layers and particularly battery hens are
exposed to dangers from which their less proliﬁc sisters
are more or less exempt. There are cases of hens
suffering from “ egg peritonitis ” which includes rupture
of the egg canal, escape of yolks from the oviduct into
the muscular cavity from a reversed action of the
muscular contractions of its walls, and accumulation
of egg material in the oviduct. In the great majority
of such cases the primary cause of the trouble is found
to be a shell—less egg which has collapsed in the egg
canal and failed to be expelled. “Egg peritonitis” is
found far more frequently in birds from battery plants
than in ordinary farm hens. When we consider the

IQ

F%. #4?




hen standing on a sloping wire battery floor it is obvious
that her internal organs must be strained and displaced
and unable to function as they should.

Birds in cages have little room to exercise and
consequently they have a tendency to put on fat rapidly.
This condition is accelerated because the average caged
bird is not subject to winter weather changes, and so
does not draw on this fat for heat. The internal organs
of the birds get so bound up with fat that it is impossible
for them to lay.

Egg—eating is a common battery fault (although
the sloping cage ﬂoor is also designed to prevent this).
Even an “ enterprising Lancashire ~ laying battery
designer ” has to admit :

"‘ There is only one thing that he has not been able
to overcome in his laying battery, and that is egg/eating
by a determined hen. There is only 2% in. between
the bottom of the mash trough and the wire mesh Of
the sloping egg tray, yet a determined hen will hook
an egg back through this space. His only remedy for a
conﬁrmed egg’eater is—death.”‘17)

Because of the same unnatural life hens peck at
their own and each other’s feathers, feet, and sores.
Breast. blisters due to the wire ﬂoor are common. Many:
battery hens are ravaged by mites, inﬂamed mouths,
fowl pox, diarrhoea, constipation, visceral gout, tumours,-
etc., and others are just found dead in the cages. “ The
best bird I ever had laid 323 eggs in 12 months, and
then 232 in her second year, during which she moulted
for four weeks. She then laid 26 and II and then
died. What was the actual cause of death I do not.
know.””“’

UNFIT FOR HUMAN FOOD

We are told of birds laying shell—less or partially
shelled eggs, of eggs containing meat spots, foreign
substances, blood clots, blood streaks, diffused blood,
treacle yolks, ﬂoating yolks, adherent yolks, green—tinged
whites, watery whites, and mould growth. Many of
these are absolutely unﬁt for human food.

A striking comment on battery eggs appeared in a
poultry journal recently:

II

 




 

Battery of Laying cages, a hen or puller being accommodated in each cage.

 




”A V 4*

“What is the future of the laying battery system? I have
never used it on my own farm, but I have six friends who have
given the system a good trial. They all had cages for upwards
of 800 birds. Two have just gone out of the industry. Two are
returning to outdoor methods. One is now using his cages as
a sort of farm’ hospital and the remaining one continues because
he must. All are right up against the same thing, the inferior
quality of the eggs produced.

“ One has a retail round, and complaints were so many that
it was a case of either giving up the round or giving up the
methods Another admits the poor quality of the eggs produced,
but he only has 1,000 birds in cages out of a total of 6,000, and
since all the eggs go to a station together the good eggs will carry
off the inferior ones. The complaints are of poor coloured yolks
and watery whites.

“I fear that such productions are an inevitable result of the
system. It is not a matter of feeding, for such eggs are occasionally
produced even on free range. They are a result of low vitality,
but whilst, on open runs, the birds in low condition are few, all
birds kept in cages are likely to be in this condition. They may
look well, but it is the egg quality that matters, and if the cage
system develops to any great extent, egg quality is going to prove
a matter of the ﬁrst importance.”(19)

As an appeal on aesthetic and health grounds often
succeeds where a plea from the humanitarian View
points fails, it is of particular interest to quote Mr.
J. E. R. McDonagh, F.R.C.S.,(2°) on intensive egg
laying: '

“Eggs in many people are a potent factor in
rendering the mutation forms of the Bacillus coli
communis pathogenic, and this is doubtless due to the
intensive egg—laying to which hens are being subjected.
Birds normally lay eggs only once a year, and the toxic
effects produced by eggs today are doubtless caused by
the unnatural protein compounds built up in them as
a result of the artiﬁcial conditions under which the
birds are made to live.”

POOR CONSUMER

To cull the diseased hens sounds very reassuring
to the consumer. He probably thinks the disease—ridden .
carcases go on the refuse heap. Nothing of the sort. He
has to eat them I ‘

“As to wastage of birds, they take good care to
see that if a hen shows the slightest sign of going off
lay, she is put into the delivery van and sold as a boiler
at IS. a lb. Indeed the whole success of laying batteries

I3

 




 

probably lies in. ﬁnding a good market for culled
hens and keeping the labour costs down.“’“ -Hens
which are removed from the laying cages at various
periods of the year are very acceptable as table
birds, because they usually carry a large amount of
ﬂesh and are not subject to the stringy hard muscles
one ﬁnds with the fowl on free range. The battery man
therefore cultivates an outlet for table birds from his
culls.”‘22) “ The most economical practice is to kill all
the birds for table as soon as they have recovered
suﬂiciently to put on enough ﬂesh. Do not keep them
on as layers. They are unprofitable and also will keep
the disease on the farm. It is much wiser to isolate
them in the ﬁrst place and fatten them on a growing
ration in conﬁnement and then market them killed and
plucked. Do not sell such birds alive or you may
spread the disease among other ﬂocks.”‘23’ Although
this last quotation applies to birds on general farms,
the mentality illustrated applies equally to battery
owners.

. There is a further quotation from .Mr.
McDonagh : ‘24)

“Being so convinced that the rising incidence of
disease in chickens is largely the result of the intensive
farming methods which are employed today, we have
been wondering for some time past if ingesting fowl
ﬂesh may not be an important factor in augmenting the
pathogenic activity of some of the mutation forms of
the Bacillus coli communis in the large intestine of man.
Be this the case or not, the matter is worthy of some
consideration, not by itself, but in conjunction with
other enquiries which should be made into the farming
industry as a whole, because, as we stated above, disease
in animals under domestication is largely the fault of
man and one day must recoil upon him.”

NOT “SHE” BUT “IT”

A recent editorial in Feathered World states:
“ We could not expect that the laying battery system
would escape the criticism of sentimental—minded
persons for long . . . . They make the elementary mis~
take of . . . . calling a hen ‘ she ’ instead of ‘it,’ and their

I4

    

 

 

1r _ 1—4

    




 

 

judgments based on such a mistake are obviously
unreliable I ”

That is addled reasoning.

A stone placed in a battery would be an “it.”
But a stone would not lay eggs, “ it ” could not be
fattened for killing, “it ” would not produce a farthing
proﬁt. No poultryman would be so crazy as to place
an “ it ” in a battery and expect results. Anatomically
a hen is a female, a hen is a “ she,” and only a “ she ”
is capable of the miracle of creating life, only a “ she ”
can lay eggs. It is only because a hen is a “ she” that
she is ruthlessly exploited and tortured to yield proﬁt.

There can only be one answer to this. All readers
of this pamphlet should investigate the source of the

eggs they eat, and refuse all battery eggs.

REFERENCES
1. \Weekly Dairy Produce Notes, 22.1.1937.
2. Farmers’ Weekly, 6.3.1938.
3. Feathered 'World, 23.7.1937.
4. Imperial Economic Committee’s report on Dairy Produce,
1936.
5. Farmer 81 Stock—Breeder, 15.2.1938.
6. Ibid, 31.1.1939.
7. Thornbers Annual, 1939.
8. Ibid, 1939.
9. Feathered World, 5.3-1937-
IO. FuervPep booklet, Quaker Oats, Ltd, 1938.
11. Farmers’ Weekly, 26.2.1937.
12. Feathered World, 4.6.1937.
13. H.M. Stationery Ofﬁce, 1938.
14. Report on the Management and Economics of a Laying

Battery, Lancashire County Institute of Agriculture.
15. Feathered World, 2.12.1938.
16. Farmer 81 StockrBreeder, 11.5.1937.
17. Feathered World, 9.71937.
18. Ibid, 2.12.1938.
19. Ibid, 18.6.1937.
20. The Nature of Disease Journal, VOL. II, 1933, p. 194.
21. Feathered World, 5.3.1937.
22. Thornbers Annual, 1939.
2 . Farmers’ Weekly, 27.8.1937.
2 . The Common Cold and Influenza, 1936, p. 117.

15

 




Single Hen Battery.

From Thornbers Annual, 1939.

 

VVICKES & ANDREWS, LTD., Printers. 145, Upper Thames St..

 




