The Canine Tight=r0pe Walker—‘—
and Others.

HE trainer not

only has to make
animals perform tricks
and acrobatics, which
would demand all the
skill, slogging, and de-
votion of a human con-
tortionist, but he has to
guarantee the manager,
who has booked his act,
that at such—and-such a
time every evening these
animals shall be ready,
waiting, willing, success-

ful. Twenty minutesof

slick perfection in' the
music hall. Then—clear
for the next turn !

And how is this to be
‘ done P By persuasion P

Would any of us do a dangerous, a disagreeable, a painful, an unnatural thing if we
could avoid it? '

Would not the supreme goacl be fear, and the fear of pain, of docked food?

_ During the Spanish Inquisition, and in the reign of ‘ Bloody Mary,’ the most high—
. minded persons, full of religious ideals, went, burning with zeal for their faith, into,the
torture chamber. But many, many of them could not withstand the instruments uSed
upon them. Hurt us enough, and human nature can endure no more. We either faint or}.
promise anything. .

And so with the animal. Only in his case he is sustained by no principle ; all but the:
sufferings of martyrdom are denied him.

Will those of you who still believe that cats and dogs can be trained by smiles and
encouragement, fancy biscuits and ﬁsh, ask yourselves this : .

Is it natural or easy to a fox terrier to turn back somersaults ? To walk on hisfront
legs with his hind legs in the air? For a poodle to climb a ladder and jump from a" height
into a net? . ,. ,

Is it natural for cats to wheel perambulators round an arena on their hind legs 3, You
and I know that, so far from this being the case, it is apparently against Nature for any
cat even to' obey the sound of one’s voice, and that he will stalk up the garden upon his
own affairs without turning his head, however loudly one calls I

[R T. o.

 




Then be very sure there is pressure being put on somewhere. And since animals are
not susceptible to argument, the only alternative is pain.

And, above all, ask yourselves this:

Is it within reason to believe that wild animals of the jungle, to whom every white
man spells enemy and death, will suddenly and meekly obey alien commands, perform
undigniﬁed tricks at the crack of a whip alone?

The lion, tiger, and leopard, being dangerous to the trainerwunlike the humble dog
and catwpressure of a peculiar stringency must be resorted to if the trainer is to escape

the practice hour with a whole skin. R. F.

Will you not help to make all cruel and

unnatural turns impossible by:

I. Joining the Jack London Club.

2. Walking out of the place of entertainment, or making

some form of protest to the manager.

3. Trying to inﬂuence those who have the care of

children, that they may learn the truth about

performing animals.
4. Distributing the League’s Literature.

5. Sending a donation to the Treasurer to spread the

PERFORMING AND CAPTIVE ANIMALS DEFENCE LEAGUE,
York House, Portugal Street, London, W.C.2.

Treasurer.- Mr. ERNEST BELL. Secretary: Miss J. WADE.

 




