 

MENDHCANT

BY
@oLoPBRME

SEVENTH
EDITION.

NATIONAL CANINE DEFENCE LEAGUE,

27, Regent Street, London, SW.

 




 

 

 

 




 
     
  
  
 
     
     

JACK

A MENDICANT

 

BY

C. L. PIRKIS

 

Author of “Lady Lovelace,” etc.

 

Illztetiatz'ons by E. STUART HARDY

 

i
NATIONAL CANINE DEFENCE LEAGUE,
27, REGENT STREET, LONDON, SW.

The proceeds from the sale of this story will be given to the
National Canine Defence League, 27, Regent Street, London, 5. W.

Limp Cloth, 7d., post free.
In Paper Cover, 35d” post free, 2/3 per dozen.

 




 

 

T0 DEAREST

MISS MARSTON,

MY FRIEND OF LONG YEARS,

IN LOVE AND IN REVERENCE

gt @chicute thia little ﬁnch.

NUTFIELD, 1901.‘

:., vr:

C. L. PIRKIS.




 

WHITE-HAIRED mongrel terrier it

was, with ﬂopping ears, and only half a

tail—a thin, shadowy sort of thing that
used to grub about in the twilight in the gutters,
and in odd corners where poor people throw
waste and rubbish, picking up its own living as
best it could. If it had not known how to
“fend for itself,” it must have fared hardly
indeed ; for though it had a master who 10ved
it, as he would have loved the sun in the heavens
could his blind eyes have been lightened for one
moment by its beams, and who treasured it as he-
did the memory of his dead wife, dead daughter,
dead grandchild, yet he had nothing but his love
to give it, and love, as we all know, though " it
never faileth, and is greater than faith and hope,
in hard times cannot so much as buy an‘ounce
of bread, ‘nor even get a bone for a dog.

 




 

4 jack—A M endiccmt.

Caleb had been blind for more than twenty
years. Once he had been a strong skilful work-
man, who had never known a dinnerless table nor
a ﬁreless hearth. Things had gone well with him
in early life; he had married a stout young
country woman, and had had one child by her—
a blue-eyed, fair-haired darling, whom they had
christened Martha, but whom everyone loved to
call Mattie. She looked as if she had been born
to a pet-name, and she stuck to it as a right.
Mattie was sent to school and taught embroideries
and needlework; she was not to work hard, as
her father and mother had done before her, but
was to lead the quiet, gentle sort of life God so
evidently intended her for; and if, by-and-by,
when father and mother were getting old and
could no longer work for their darling, some good
honest workman were to come along and offer to
marry her—well l—then he should have her, and
God’s blessing go with her.

But before Mattie was ten years old, or there
was any thought of father and mother getting
old, Caleb’s great trouble had come upon him.
There was a huge ﬁre at the factory where he
worked, and Caleb, in his zeal to save his
master’s property, was much burnt about his

 

 




 

 

jack—A M endicmzt. 5;

face, arms, and chest. They took him to the
hospital, where they did the best they could for
him, and he came out of it in a month's time
with limbs patched, face sound though scarred,"
but eyesight gone for ever.

How the stout strong wife would have wept
over him if she had had time to weep! But time
meant money in those days, and she set to work
with a will to get the daily bread. No more-
embroideries for little Mattie : sewing and
stitching will serve her in better stead now, for
she can earn a shilling here and a shilling there:
by plain needlework among her poor neighbours.

And so things went on for ten years or more.
Caleb turned woman in the house, and cooked,
their small meals, and kept things as straight and:
neat as he could without his eyesight; and the
women turned men, as poor women often have to
do, and brought in the pounds and the shillings,
or, failing the pounds, the shillings and the
pennies, and even in those days had always
wherewithal to help a brother or a sister less
fortunate than themselves.

Then there came another change: fever set in
in their neighbourhood, and the brave strong
mother was the ﬁrst to fall a victim to it.

B

 




 

 

 

6 jack—A M endicant.

Caleb was dazed with grief. Mattie wept her.

heart out, then set to work again, but this time
with less of spirit and courage. From house to
house CalebgrOped his way, begging for work——
he would do what he could for a Sixpence a day;
he was, so he said, “a giant in strength.”
“True,” said the people; “but a blind giant is
of no use to us, and we are too poor to pay
sixpence a day 'for nothing.”

“ I will go into the workhouse,” said Caleb;
“ no man shall say I live idle upon my little girl’s
earnings.”

Then Mattie clung about his knees and
besought him not to leave her, telling him a
secret she had meant to tell the dead mother,
how that she had married secretly a ﬁne-looking
young fellow who had made love to her, how
that where he had gone she knew not, nor even
whether the name in which he had married her
were his own. -

Caleb lifted up his voice and cursed the day
wherein he had lost his eyesight. “If I had but
the glimmer of daylight wherewith to guide my
steps, I would search the world through to ﬁnd
the false-hearted coward who has brought this
shame to our door. Lord, Thou‘rhastwdealt

 

 




jack—Ar Men-dicant. 7 ‘

hardly with me indeed!” he said, with his?
sightless eye-balls lifted h—eavenwards. .2
Mattie drooped day by day, but still she,
managed to keep her customers together, and:
sent home smart dresses for gay young shop-girls:
to wear in the summer evenings when they went
walking out with their sweethearts. By-and-by
a second Mattie came—a-little fair-haired, blue-
eyed thing, like Mattie the ﬁrst; and though
Caleb cursed again the false-hearted man who
had left his [Mattie to struggle through her
troubles alone,the little creature came like a
gleam of sunshi'ie into his dark life, and no one
thought more of her baby comforts, or took more
tender care of the tiny fragile thing, than the old
blind grandfather.
_ For Caleb was fast becoming a prematurely old
man now. He lacked the ﬁrst of yOuth’s greatest
preservers—honeSt, steady, constant work; and
he lacked also the second—good, plain, wholesome
food." What wonder if his back were bent, his
brow wrinkled, and his hair thin and grey!

I How they managed to struggle through another
ﬁve years" he did not know, no one quite knew.
The furniture in their little room (they had only
one mom now) grew less and less; also their

 




 

 

8., jack—A» M endicant.

bread was often eaten without butter ; also, when
the winter came round, Mattie began to have a
cough and complain of a pain at her chest. Then
Caleb whispered something in little Mattie’s ear,
and the child led him down the stairs and along
the streets to a bright sunshiny wall in the big
city, where people were passing backwards and
forwards all day long, and where, if the old blind
man held out his hat, there might be a chance of
ﬁnding a few stray pence in it at the end of the
day.

The poor people in the house Where they lived '
felt their hearts touched when they saw the old
man and the small white child creeping down
the stairs together, and heard the poor suffering
daughter coughing as she stooped over her
dresses and shirts. They shook their heads at
each other : “ It can’t go on much longer,” said
one to the other; “and what they’ll do without
her, God only knows.” So they would give little
Mattie a cup of tea or a bit of cheese to take to
her mother, and the mother would drink the tea,
and give the cheese to the little one, and smile
and shake her head, and say she couldn’t eat.

And one day a small rough .boy in the house
brought to little Mattie a white terrier pup.




 

 

“Yet I live on

i

,7

88.1

0
U
"uL
I.
s
H.
v...
n
u
0
Us
9
S
B
I
T...
«I?
U
9
I.
U
IJ
T»
O
U
"1.

Us
I.
S
S
11
B
U
D...
0..
rA
17
U;
9
S
n
U
S
U..
I.
U
A
M
W
B
17
U.
9
q
.A
W.
A S
m.
D
Ho
9
u
p
I
B
‘0
{v.l

jack—A M (m dicmzt.

 

 

1.. .2

A . 4.6
‘ \ ‘ ‘ 1 m. A #7.] 1v
\ \ . A k . 4
‘1 .sm‘r . v 1.‘ .lxnnhPth! .,. I. h .. 1/.7
, V! ; - It? vx DQtvtu .2 .. I . ,o'lu .
u--l‘llu’/L\.H\\Q§NO”¢# , .
O

«.15

 

\u . “Vikki”! . z
s .U ‘r -C‘vumruﬁItcltcHu I .
{ssubﬁhuva‘lllnolQN 910000. II // .../v.«\60 . . . V
5:6.‘uxsauPthNInaann~vrmA§MwMW.!I/r , / ..,
. EQIJAVM \ ODVOKObNOMI‘ ﬂag/ll . . [I’ll/Ix!

l,:ll.\ CD.‘ I
I: am” IMF

 

 

 

d Caleb, as day after day he took

 




 

 

 

Io fade—A M endicant.

“ Father was going to drown it,” he said, “but
I told him I thought you would like it, and
maybe by-and-by ’twill help to lead the old man
along.” Little Mattie took the puppy gratefully,
and called him Jack, after her boy friend. They
knotted a piece of cord together and put it round
Jack’s neck, and every day the old man, the
child, and the terrier pup were to be seen ﬁnding
their way along the streets to the bright sunshiny
wall.

Once, as they stood thus in the bleak March
weather, with a north-east wind sweeping the
streets and drifting the dust into clouds that
Shut out the spring sunbeams, a poor woman
came "hurriedly up to them. “‘ You’d best make
haste home, Caleb,” she said, “if you want to
see your daughter again alive.” She forgot, poor
soul, for the moment, that Caleb hadn’t seen his
daughter for ten years or more, and never could
—in this life, at any rate—see her again. But
poor people, you know, haven’t much time to
spend in choosing their words, and they. don’t
expect other people to be very nice in the matter
either.

So . Mattie and Jack and the grandfather
trudged through the streets, and for once in a




 

jack—A M endican’t. "I I

way got home by daylight, to ﬁnd Mattie the
elder (poor child, she wasn’t ﬁve-and-twenty
then) lying on the bed, the sheet stained with
blood, and her feet and hands growing damp and
cold. .

“She’s goin’ fast,”rsaid one of'the women
about the bedside. ,

“ O God,” cried Caleb, kneeling down on the
bare boards, “if only for One mom‘ent‘I might
see those blue eyes before they close for ever!”
Useless the prayer, the beating of the hands
against the closed barred doors: Mattie’s life
ebbed out that day before the twilight fell, and—
well—two days after, there was another mound
in the big pauper burial place outside the city.
That was all.

“Yet I live on,” said Caleb, as day after day
he took his stand by the sunshiny wall, Mattie
by his side and Jack on his haunches a little in
front. Mattie’s clothes were very thin now, and
her shoes almost dropping from her feet. One
by one the little odd comforts the dead mother
had bought her were taken to the pawnshop, and
a few coppers, or at most a Sixpence, brought
back in return. As winter crept on, she began
to grow white and shiver as the mother had

 




12 jack—A ' Mendicant.

done, and then cough and draw her breath in as

though to let it out gave her pain. The neigh-

bours began to shake their heads again as they

had done over the mother. “She’s going the

same way,” they said, whispering together, “and

God help the old man then! ” Going the same 1

way, was she ? Before the ﬁrst winter snow had ;

settled on the mother’s grave, she was gone.

And Caleb ? Well, he had his dog left him, and

his old clothes, and his sunshiny wall, and what

would you more? Poor people can’t have every-

thing they want, you know, in this life. f,
When little Mattie lay stretched white and

cold on the mattress on the ﬂoor (the bedstead

had longisince disappeared) on which her mother

had died, the poor people came in and did the

best they could for her—poor people are not

always thrashing horses and kicking dogs to

death, as some think; they sometimes do little

kindnesses one for the other, and show a reﬁne-

ment which people in higher ranks occasionally

forget. So one brought a clean white sheet and

wrapt the little girl in it, another combed out her

long fair hair, and a third (a ﬂower-girl) put a

spray of fern and geranium into her small thin
hand.

 




jack—A M endiccmt. I 3

“ She’s looking that lovely, Caleb, she is,” said
a brown old woman of sixty with a handkerchief
tied over her head.

“ Lord, for this once!” pleaded Caleb, lifting
his hands high above his head. “ For one
moment only let my eyes be opened, that they
may see the face I have loved and never known.”
The poor people stood back, as they heard his
prayer, with their breath drawn in. Almost they
expected. a miracle to be performed—had they not
heard of such things in the churches P—and for a
moment the ﬁlm to be lifted from Caleb’s eyes,
that they might rest on the face he had loved so
well before the cold earth shut it in for evermore.

All in vain. No answering Ephphatha was
breathed down from the silent everlasting
heavens. Caleb’s hands fell down helplessly to
his side, and Jack crept from out of a corner
and licked them, and then the parish people
sent their” undertakers to carry Mattie away to
the same big cemetery where her mother was
sleeping.

All gone but Jack! Well, a dog is something,
after all, to have left one; and when one is old
and blind and poor, one doesn’t expect a great
deal in life, you know, but is just thankful for a

 

 




 

 

 

I4 fackL—A ‘Mendicmzt.

crust of bread‘to eat, some straw or’old clothes to
lie down on at night, and a sunshiny wall to lean
against in the day-time; so the dog was alto-
gether something extra in the way of mercies.
“ How he do live 'on is a marvel,” one to another
would wonder, watching the old man creeping
down the stairs day after day to take his stand
in the streets; and “the dog is like a child to
him now,” they would say, as they noted Jack
sitting on his stump of a tail, waiting for a gap
in the crush of carts and carriages before he
Would venture to lead his master across the busy
high-road. " *

It was in tho'se days that Jack ﬁrst began to
"‘ fend for himself.” As long as the two Matties
liVed, there was always a plate of odds and ends
of some sort—scrape it together how they might
—-waiting for him inside the door when he came
in from his morning’s work; but after they were
gone, things were different. It was hard work
enough for Caleb to get his own daily bread and
collect the eighteen pennies which paid for his
miserable little cupboard (attic it was supposed
to be) 'at the t‘Op of the house; so when he came
in at four o’clock in the winter’s twilight with a
loaf of bread and a few pence, the cord was

 

 

 




 

‘ ‘~-__

 

 

jack—A M endibcmt, _ I 5

unknotted from Jack’s neck and the poor animal
let free to forage for himself in the alleys and
gutters. Jack in this way became very punctual
in his habits. At four o’clock he was released
from duty; it took him about an hour to ﬁnd his
dinner in the streets; and punctually at ﬁve he
might be seen sneaking along some by-street with
a bone in his mouth or the remnants of some ﬁsh,
dodging skilfully between the passers-by till he
reached home, Where at his master’s feet he
would ﬁnish in calm enjoyment his hardly earned
meal—to which, be it noted, Caleb never failed
to add some portion of his own, however scanty
it had been.

The winter that year tried Jack and Caleb
sorely. In the summer things had been a little
better with them; people had a little more money
to spend, and a few more halfpence would ﬁnd
their way into Caleb’s hat, and Jack also would
sometimes get a“ pat on the head and a biscuit or
two thrown to him; but in the winter things
began to 'go very hardly with them. Not that
the people of the house were ever unkind to them.
Poor souls! they were kind enough, as far as
they had wherewithal to be kind; and one who
remembered the old man’s Wife would cOme in

 

 




 

 

16 jack—A Mendicant.

and clean up his room for him; and another, who
remembered the blue-eyed Mattie, would patch
up his old clothes for him; and all would give a
kind word or a pat to the faithful Jack, now the
old man’s sole companion and protector. More
than this they couldn’t do. You see, when
people have hard work to keep their own and
their children’s bodies and souls together, they
can’t be expected to go about distributing loaves
of bread, or to have many remnants ofmeals to put
down in their gutters to feed stray dogs and cats.

When the long frost set in in January, many
and many a night did Jack and Caleb go dinner-
less and supperless to bed. “ Times are a little
hard just now, but we’ll see them out together,
eh, old friend? ” Caleb would say when Jack
came to lick his hand by way of good-night, and
to testify his opinion that, whatever happened,
his master was in no sense to blame. Then they
would turn in together, Caleb on his straw (the
mattress had gone the way of his bedstead now),
with his head on an old box for a pillow, and the
faithful Jack huddled up on his feet.

Would the frost never come to an end P It was
all very well for ladies wrapped in their warm
sealskins and velvets to say what a healthy winter

 

 

_i‘.aa .__. -

 

 




 

 

fuck —A M endicomt. I7

it was, and for young people with rosy cheeks, as
they looked out their skates, and pulled on their
thick gauntlets, to descant on the glories of a
“ ﬁne frost; ” Caleb and Jack, taking their stand
against the wall—sunshiny, alas! no longer—
would have told a different story. Ah, surely
never did east wind sweep down so ruthlessly
before, never before did snowstorm last so long,
never before were streets so forlorn and empty of
passers-by. “Caleb and Jack went home one terrible
day at least one hour earlier than usual—~it was
useless waiting there any longer for alms—Caleb
with One halfpenny in his hat, and that the gift of
a poor frozen-out crossing-sweeper who rightly
judged the old man to be worse off than himself.

Part of a loaf was all Caleb’s food that day.
“ Eh, old doggie, thou shalt have thy bite of it,”
he said, feeding Jack with crumbs in the hollow
of his hand, “for it’s little enough thou’lt ﬁnd for
thyself in the gutters.” Little enough, indeed,
anywhere, save snow and ice, and Jack may hunt
high and Jack may hunt low, and thrust his
patient old nose into all sorts of odd corners that
seem to have a faint scent of red herring or
haddock, but there’s little enough of supper he’ll
get to-night.

 

 

 




 

 

 

I8 jack—A M endicamf.

WhatWas itmade him so late on this particular
windy, frosty, Snowy afternoon? Had he lost
himself in'a snow-driftPthought Caleb, setting
open-wide his door, and listening in vain for the
patter and-scramble of the four little feet up the
carpetless stairs. Six, seven, eight o’clock came
and went, and still no sign of Jack; and Caleb
crept to bed at last, shivering and forlorn, and
with a sense of utter desolation andfloneliness at
his heart which he had never knOWn before.

Frost,snow, sleet, east wind, went on through

the night, and began again with i the dawn.
“-‘ Nay, but you’re not. going out, friend?” said
a kindly old body, meeting Caleb on the stairs as
the old man swearily and slowly was feeling his
Way down; “ there’ll not be a soul in'the streets
With a penny to spare; you’ll not get your bread
that way to-day.”
" ‘V“»It’s my Jack I’m going to look for to-day,”
said the old man, “‘ not my bread; it may be he
lost “his way ”in the ' Snow last night, and he’s
waiting for me now in. the old place by the Wall.
Give me a hand, neighbour, and help me along
a bit, Will ye P "’ ' So the woman helped him along
to the wall, through the biting-wind and snow,
but no sign of Jack when they got there.

 

 




 

jack—A M endicmzt. Ig

“VVe’ll try the baker’s shop,” said Caleb,
thinking of their old haunts, and Whether ,it
were possible that the baker’s wife, who some-
times threw ]ack. a broken biscuit, had, taken
him. in out of pity for the night. . .

And while they were in the shop asking after
the dog, there came in two Children who “had a
strange story to tell, a story which froze Caleb’s

   
  
  
     

   
    
  

— ‘C‘ “ .
\\¥u\\‘¢

t. -i ._ -" . i
//i« ‘ . Sr...
\ , ~
, ,.

 
 
 

  

  

I I," . .\ , '3“ " i ’ v’
99:9.29'7927- ' ‘ ,.,
xw’lx urine :9 \\ ”99'
. . ﬁgf’f/ M, 6 ~ ’ \ ‘ 9.1;,"
r. '
-‘ “Hg/o
, 2’Mi’
“’42 ‘9 >
; 6’ 239M
. ‘9’ , 20;,
/’ /.' v.9
.’ / ‘ l

'I
’I/‘JII
Listening in vain for the patter and ' is‘crambie of “the
four little feet up the carpetiess stairs. «

 

 

 




 

 

20 jack—A M endicant.

blood in his veins as he stood and listened. They
had- seen a dog, a dog for all the world as like
Jack as could be, being led along the day before
by two. men who came out of a public-house, and
who talked and laughed loudly as they went
along. Said one, “It doesn’t do to be too
tender-hearted in these hard times; human ﬂesh
and blood reckons before dog’s ﬂesh and blood
any day in the week.” Said the other, “ And the
doctor will give us a good ’arf- crown for him safe
enough, and ask no questions into the bargain.”

Caleb trembled from head to foot. “ Take me
to his house,” he said in a voice that startled the
children, for it vibrated and twanged like any old
harpsichord with all the music gone out of it.

At the doctor’s door the two children left him
standing on the door-step, they themselves.
running away and peeping at him round the
corner of the street. A man-servant answered
Caleb’s ring. “ My dog! ” said the old blind
man in the same harsh trembling voice, “what
have you done with him? he’s white—haired like-
me, and thin like me; you can count every rib in
his body.”

Ugh ! how cold it was ! the east wind and sleet
blew in the servant’s face, and how could he be

 




 

jack—A M endiccmt. 2 I

expected to stand there talking with an old blind
man on the doorstep?‘ He half shut the door.
“Your dog, old man!” he said, “ we know
nothing about dogs here.” He would have shut
the door in Caleb’s face, but the old man was too
quick for him, and had put his stick across the
threshold. “ My dog ! ” he repeated, louder and
louder; “white-haired, thin like me; you could
count every rib he had l ”

A gentleman was coming down-stairs at this
moment. He was dressed in the glossiest of
black with the whitest of ties. He had a gleaming
smile, a thick square jaw, and eyes that changed
as you looked at them. “What is it? ” he said
tranquilly, coming towards the door. “ Does the
man want money P—I do not like a disturbance
on my door-step. A dog, did you say—white-
haired—thin! Oh yes, I had him with two
collies yesterday afternoon; the brute ! he wasn’t
worth the money I paid for him; he howled so,
we had to cut his windpipe before we could do
anything with him. I wouldn’t have had him if
I could have got a third collie: they are so much
more quiet and patient. Villain! did you say,
old man? No, I’m a physiologist—you shouldn’t
be abusive; the law protects me, and we must

 




 

 

221: jack—+24 M endicfc’mt;

have subjects. There," that’ll do,” and h'e‘waved
his hand gracefully; “ go away now. Wants his
body ! ” This to the man-servant :-—“ Oh, by
all means, Joseph, give him what’s left of him;
it’s in the back yard.” And the physiologist,
member of at least one-half the scientiﬁc societies
of Europe, and With a high repute throughout the
British. Islesfor his learning and humanity, went

_ calmly into his study to ﬁnish writing down the

resu1ts of his experiments over-night onthe two
collies and poor White-haired Jack.

Caleb took the mangled body of his old friend
reverently, into his arms, he passed his hand
tenderly over the strained eyeballs, the blood-
stained throat, the severed ribs. “ My God,” he
said, standing there in the snow and east wind
outside the closed door, “I can thank Thee
now that I have no sight wherewith to see the
wickedneSsthese Thy creatures have wrought.”

The children came from round the corner and
led him home again, Caleb still tenderly carrying

Jack with his thin ”ragged handkerchief spread.

over the poor torn body.
Hours after, the neighbours wondered why
there was not a sound of movement in the old

man’s room, and went up, fearing he might be'

 

 

 




 

 

 

jack—A M endibcmt. 2 3

’ill, and there was he standing erect and rigid
with Jack’s body in ‘his‘ arms, and the words of
thanksgiving still on his lips, “God, I thank

- , . r .-Thee that ’I have no eyes to
see this devils7-yvork-l”. '

Yes, he lives on, this old
man, companionless and alone;
the neighbours do What they'
can for him, and he
\ rarely wants a loaf of
bread or a cup of tea
now. Every evening,
as the clock strikes ﬁve,
he "gets up. from his
rickety chair," opens his
door, and stands listen-
ing: for theupatter and
scramble of old Jack’s
feet up the "carpetless
stairs. Silly !. do you
say ?——he has gone silly!
0 u.“ It may be so; I do
“ God, I thank Thee that I not know. Often we are
have no eyes to see this devils’
work!” wisest when most we
are called foolish, and foolish when we are
thought to be most wise. I only know that

  
 
 
  
 
  

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

24 jack—A M endicant.

old Caleb stands daily, blind and silent, at his
open door, listening for the footsteps that will
never return.

, Some day One will enter in with a message for
him—the Angel of Death.

1 H}, I] g.
"n“ - in”; ]. {lull -' I”

ll:

   
     
 

,lﬂ
~ r

     

\r‘ '
. . , A
- "‘-
.
— ‘ 3' .
m V " ~ ~ ~ A
_ -. 4. ~_._. A__ . r ~ ; _
_-‘:e A..— l v _ a ‘-
"" a} r *- ‘ - . ~ 1
_ ..-e,. ' ..\ “ “ is , ~ ‘
__ A- .._ 4. .,_ , __.. W, .--,-—— .
.h. - -_ .__»._._.. r
. _ r . .

‘ \
\‘.
‘.'.~
an

, g: .'
,I a I 'a
’Wﬁ 34‘
"'I'm,
‘0’?”
’zlgigi’sa,
r22
/ ’ f/ , ‘
\‘ ’ ,f/r .
V I ,
‘ I.

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 




SURPLUS — 1
LIBMY (a? "W

D U F a ’ if:

 




