wxﬂ-m.“
. w».
I?” {l “I

9'? “

 

 

 

 

.\ _‘
V Us A"
'rlr'hh‘f‘l‘L‘,
‘L ‘V \x;‘ ‘

"1}: 4 g: I
(hf-7" I Q w
‘ ‘ w

( n
,V-tgiu ‘33
* m “A ., (.u-

 

I‘m
“I.”

, ‘4
m‘M‘"
"vhfﬂmq
. 4/
ﬁ. xv» -” ‘

Km

13’.

v 77 a.
J "\VV‘E‘Z.‘
0 “Hz

#5
‘5», '1‘

.u
m.“

f.
luk
‘ ,‘ 'wm
‘ h

V y

.i
"9“",
h
[u'
,

\‘ I
‘15»?

,W
" a

 




     
   
    
 
    
  
     
       
       
     
     
     
       
   

w The Irltlsh Union
5 for the Abolition of V1v1$ectlon.

  

 

 

Fou‘n-drésS3 :,

 

  

Vice- Presidents. ,_ , . - ,
a H. S. H. PRINCESS LUDWIG VON3- . _ The Dean of CLONEAONOISE.

' I LOWENSTEIN VVERTHEIM a ,3 ~ * Col SANDYS, M. .P..

3 ._ The Lady VICTORIA CAMPBELL ., Major MAOMICKING, M.P.

' 31 The Dowager Countess of DARNLEY RICHARD BELL, Esq, MP.
“The Countess of DUNRAVEN , ‘ "A. W. BLACK, Esq, MP 7 -
The Countess DE NOAILLES. 7' 3 , K. E.- O’ BRIEN Esq.,3 MP

3, 3 ~ ' EMMA, COX-11113688 of RAVENSWORTH.” ‘3] 3' ROBERT CAMERON Esq, M.P. ‘

~V1soount BANGOR. ‘ , . T" ,5 ‘J R CLWES, Esq-9 MP

“ ' ’ 5 ’The Vlscountess BANGOR... j . ” jW. FIELD, Esq, MP. 3 .

3 ' The VIScountess BOLINGBBOKE. ’ J HODGE Esq, MP ._ ' . ,5

, _ The Viscount HARBERTON -3 SAMUEL M-QsS, Esq, MP

"The Lady WIMBORNE , Eers. FRANK MORRISON. '

3 The Lady BATTERSEA 4?; _ f g SAMUEL SMITH, Esq
The Lady DUNBOYNE ' ‘3 V J. ~BAMEORD SLACK Esq.
The Hon. SEYEOUR F ORESBY 33 Mrs. CHARLES THOMAS ‘
,. GORE- . . , W. M ROSOOE, Esq, J. P._
Su- GEORGE KFKEWICH, M P ; 3 ‘ 3 Mrs. ROSOOE :33
U .9811: CHARLES SKELTON. 3 [“3533 ' WILLIAM TEBB, Esq . ' ' . .

           
     
       
       
      
  
    
   
  
  
  
  
   
       
       
     
 
   

 

Hon Secretary 3' 7 t “15’
WALTER R HADWEN ESQ., MD ;. -

 

 

Hon. Treasurer ‘
The Hon ERNEST POMEROY

Secretary
_ 5 v . sts L. E KIDD ,
‘ Headquarters of the Unwn 32, CHARING CROSS, WHITEHALL LONDON, S. W.

 

Central Executive Committee '
. ' ‘ “ ‘ Chalrman Rev. B D.. MONRO. MA

4'; The Baroness DE KNOOP 3 5 .. Rev P W SPARLING M.A.
* P. W MARTINDALE, Esq“ ‘ 3 ‘ 3 P. JOHNSTONE STIRLING Esq. ;. _
307‘M1ss S S. MONR.O . ‘ﬂy , -. 'Reer VERSOHOYLE, M3 A
. R D. PRANKERD, Esq M D ' '3 4;; ".Mi‘ss VVEBBE -- ”53"}
‘ SMrsL ROSOOE. . *: :4, '3 HAROLD WINSTON, Esq, . 3
' .zzH. ROSE; Esq f MiSS A F WHITELEY ‘3 ' ' v.31},
..‘iThe Lady ROSEEAE. PakRev. .. WOODHOUSE, M. A. .3

   

 

 

' ‘LLans BANK LIMITED * "

 

 




A DEBATE

Should Vivisection be
Abolished?

BETWEEN

WALTER R. HADWEN, Esq»
M.D., L.R.C.P., M.R.C.S., Etc»

. AND
THOMAS EASTHAIVI, Esq., M.B., Ch.B.

 

HELD IN THE

- VICTORIA HALL, GLOSSOP,

ON

JULY 18th, 1907.

 

Reprinted from “The Glossop Advertiser.”

 

Price One Shilling per dozen ; 78. per 100.

Published by the British Union for the Abolition of Vivisection,
32, Charing Cross, London, SW.

 




 

 

 

 




, 4}.» :v- «arias ,,; " ,

 

 

 

 

PREFACE.

TWTHE debate, the report of which follows, was the result of circum -
stances which I will brieﬂy detail.

On April 15, 1907, an anti-vivisection meeting was held in Glos-
sop ﬂunder the auspices of the Manchester Anti-Vivisection
Society. The subject was new to the pe0ple, and probably un-
attractive. Only thirty-seven persons assembled, although the
chair was taken by the Mayor ; and of these thirty-seven a certain
proportion were the friends of two local doctors—Dr. Eastham and
Dr. Ollerenshaw, who attended in order to Oppose their opinions to
those of the lecturer, Mr. J. H. Reed. Both doctors obtained per-
mission to speak, and delivered addresses in favour of vivisection.
One of the local newspapers, The Glossop Chronicle, reported the
proceedings under the heading “ Medical Opposition Carried the
Meeting.”

5,, Having had some experience of the readiness of certain medical
men to pit their “ expert knowledge ” against lay speakers, while
shirking conﬂict with fellow medical men who take an opposite
view to their own, I took the opportunity to write to Drs. Eastham
and Ollerenshaw and ask them if they would publicly debate the
question with a doctor ; if so, the British Union for the Abolition
of Vivisection would be prepared to pay all expenses. I received a
reply signed by both doctors to the effect that they were willing to
debate, but wished to lay down their ,own terms. These terms
included the stipulation that “ all the costs of the debate (including
the travelling and out-of-pocket expenses of the speakers) should
be paid in advance by my society.” The committee of the British
Union, having undertaken to pay all the ordinary expenses, naturally
refused to blindly make themselves responsible for the personal
expenses of their opponents (which, for all they knew, might reach
an unreasonable ﬁgure). After some correspondence on this
point, Dr. Ollerenshaw dropped out of the negotiations, it appearing
that he had obtained an appointment in London (though living at
Gloss0p), occasioning a demand for £3 for his travelling expenses.
Dr. Eastham remained, and he ﬁnally agreed to a debate on equal
terms, after a futile struggle to maintain the condition that Dr.

 




 

 

(4)

Hadwen should speak only once, which would have prevented his
answering the arguments advanced by the other side.

The remaining conditions proposed by Dr. Eastham, to which the
British Union immediately agreed, were as follows :—

1. The debate to be held in the Victoria Hall, Gloss0p (the largest

available).

2. The debate to be well advertised by posters, handbills, and
advertisements in the local papers.

3. A neutral chairman to preside.

4. The meeting to be free, and with no collection.

5. All expenses to be paid by the British Union.

6. The result of the poll to be well advertised.

Our opponent having ﬁnally agreed to our contention that there
should be three speeches on each side of equal length, the only
choice of a possible advantage to be gained by either was that of
beginning or ending the debate ; and this choice was left to Dr.
Eastham. He decided to have the last word.

On the evening of July 18 the Victoria Hall was crowded with an
audience of about 2,000, and one more orderly, attentive, and
intelligent, or more representative of all classes, was probably never
gathered together to hear this great question discussed. The result
of the poll (an overwhelming majority in favour of the abolition of
vivisection) was no less a surprise to us than it must have been to
the gentleman whose correspondence had been marked by such a
tone of conﬁdence, and who had been so desirous that it should be
“ well advertised.” GlossOp was altogether new ground to the
British Union. The small previous effort of our Manchester allies-
had “fallen ﬂat.” Those among the huge audience known to be
anti-vivisectionists numbered less than half-a-dozen. Dr. Hadwen
came as a stranger, while his opponent was a native of the town.
Our work had consisted merely in ordering the distribution of notices-
of the meeting ; we had asked for no support, nor had we made any
effort to convert the inhabitants of Glossop to our views ; whereas
our opponent, being on the spot, had had every Opportunity of
gaining a following beforehand. As a “ test case,” proving that
the uninitiated public can appreciate our arguments when only they
can be induced to listen to them, the Glossop debate stands unique
in anti-vivisection annals, and we may hope that it marks an era in
the awakening of the public to the fact that the question which
forms its title must be faced by intelligent men and women of the-
tWentieth century '

BEATRICE E. KIDD,
Secretary B.U.A.V.

 

 




 

 

SHOULD VIVISECTION BE ABOEISHED?

 

THE CHAIRMAN’S SPEECH.

WITHOUT any preamble the Chairman at once proceeded to the
business of the evening. “ When doctors disagree,” he said, “ who
shall decide ? ” In this case it was the audience that was to decide.
He took it that the two gentlemen present were both. sincere and
conscientious in the opinions they were propagating, and under

' those circumstances there ought not to be any personalities—

(hear, hear)-——or base imputations. What was wanted was a fair
and square hearing of this vexed question. (Hear, hear.) They
did not want each gentleman to vivisect the other’s personality.
(Hear, hear and laughter.) There was a duty for the audience to
perform. During the speeches the audience might approve or
disapprove in the usual form of “ hear, hear,” or 55 no, no,” but he
would not like there to be any other interjections. He hoped they
would all listen calmly and dispassionately to the debate, and give
the speakers

EVERY POSSIBLE CHANCE,

\

as interruptions often caused a speaker to lose the thread of the
argument. Personally, he was quite impartial. It was the ﬁrst
time he had occupied a position of this kind, but he would endeavour
to preside to the best of his ability. The time conditions were:
First round, 30 minutes each speaker; second round, 20 minutes
each; and third round, 10 minutes each. He had a statement to
make from Miss Beatrice Kidd, the secretary to the British Union
for the Abolition of Vivisection, and it was to the effect that she was
not responsible for any literature that had been sent into the district.
She wished to be perfectly impartial, and did not want the audience

to think that she had been spreading literature for the sake of

(.0 I

 




(5)

propagating her own side. The ﬁrst to take part in the debate was Dr.
Hadwen, who would take the afﬁrmative of the subject. (Applause)

DR. I'IADWEN.

Dr. Hadwen had a cordial reception, and said he would like, in
the ﬁrst place, to express his satisfaction that the newspaper war
carried on in the local Press had had the happy result of obtaining
Dr. Eastham’s consent to publicly debate the important question
embodied in the resolution before the meeting, “ Should Vivisection
be abolished ? ” The indefatigable secretary Of the British Union
for the Abolition of Vivisection, Miss Beatrice Kidd, had had no
Object in view from the ﬁrst but a fair and Open debate between
medical men upon absolutely equal terms, and that must be apparent
to everyone who had followed the correspondence. (Applause)
The only choice of advantage that there could be in the matter
was as to which of them should begin or end the debate. That
point Miss Kidd left entirely to Dr. Eastham, and he had elected
to have the last word. He thought it best to brieﬂy state

 

L‘-

Hrs POSITION, l

and to answer the arguments advanced. by Dr. Eastham and Dr.
Ollerenshaw upon the occasion when they Opposed a lay Anti-
Vivisection lecturer in the town, a circumstance of which that
debate was the outcome.

Under the name of Vivisection was now included not only cutting
Operations, but all scientiﬁc experiments upon living animals, such
as placing animals in vessels and slowly raising the temperature
to inordinate heat; starving them for days together and then,
perhaps, compelling them to work in that condition; suffocating
and partial drowning ; inoculating them with all manner of diseases
and poisonous substances ; putting irritating substances into their
eyes, which after weeks of agony became slowly blinded; pouring
boiling water down the throats of dogs, holding their paws over
Spirit lamps, crushing their most delicate organs, and many other
revolting experiments. All that was done in the name of science
with a view to Obtaining knowledge calculated to relieve or cure
human diseases. But although unparalleled cruelty had been .‘
practised upon sentient and sensitive creatures unable:to defend

 




 

(7)

themselves against their more powerful tyrants, for some 3,000 or
4,000 years, there had not, so far as he knew, resulted any relief
or cure of any human malady or disease which might be attributed
to those repulsive investigations. That certain facts might have
been gleaned from them he did not doubt ; one important fact was,
that there was no discovery which had been made by one vivisector
but had been denied by another, but there was certainly no useful
knowledge that he was acquainted with, alleged to have been gleaned
from vivisection, but could have been obtained, and had been ob-
tained,equally well by other means. He was aware that medical
men generally held an Opposite view, but it must be remembered
that the majority of medical men had never studied the subject
and knew literally nothing about it.

THE PRACTICE OF VIVISECTION

was solely in the hands of 200 or 300 licensed men, many of whom
were not medical men at all. Their experiments were published for
the most part in very expensive journals which medical men, as a
rule, never saw ; and the general public were deluded into the belief
that no suffering whatever existed, but that the blessed word
“ anaesthetic ” covered all question of pain. That the practice
was a most serious one was proved by the fact that two Royal
Commissions had been appointed to inquire into it within the
last thirty years; that a special Act of Parliament had been passed
to control it ; that no one but a licensee was permitted to vivisect
in licensed premises under the supervision of a Home Ofﬁce inspector,
and a description of the investigation had to be furnished in each
case. But the Act of Parliament was a delusive one. It laid down
certain important restrictions in the ﬁrst part, and then granted
certiﬁcates in the second part by which all the restrictions but three
were absolutely withdrawn, and the animal was

LEFT TO THE MERCY

of the vivisector. The only duty of the inspector was to see that
the ordinary regulations were complied with. That anaesthetics
were used in the experiments there was no question, but as to how
far they relieved the animals from pain was another matter. Vivi-
sectional anasthesia was one thing ; surgical anaesthesia was quite
another. Nothing but the most extreme care and attention could

 




(8)

succeed in putting a dog fully under the inﬂuence of an anaesthetic,
. and in keeping itunder without killing it. They were usually given
an injection of morphia, which was not an anaesthetic, and which
only tended to stupify them and destroy their power of resistance,
and then an anaesthetic was administered up to a certain point, and
continued to be administered automatically by an apparatus—an
altogether different method from that employed in the case of a
human patient. In numerous instances, deep anaesthesia would
destroy the effect of the experiment, consequently “ incomplete
anaesthesia ” was candidly confessed in many of the reports. In
some reports of severe experiments morphia only was used, and was
even called an anaesthetic by some vivisectors, although no surgeon
would dare to perform a major operation upon a human subject under
its inﬂuence, and he maintained that what they would not dare to
do in the case of a human subject they had no right to do for a dog.
(Applause) Again, a drug called curare was also frequently used,
which paralysed the muscular system; and the animal had to have
_ an opening made in its windpipe in order

 

To KEEP IT ALIVE

by an artiﬁcial breathing apparatus, so that it was quite incapable
of making a movement or uttering a cry, and yet was perfectly sensi-
tive to pain. Even if an anaesthetic were used under such circum-
stances, it was impossible to tell how far the animal was anaesthetised,
because the morphia or the curare had rendered it incapable of
expression or resistance. In the case of morphia some eminent
authorities asserted it increased an animal’s sensibility. But the
most crushing testimony to the uncertainty of insensibility to pain
was contained in the fact that the Home Ofﬁce authorities had
ceased to divide experiments into “ painful” and “ painless ” in
their reports, and the chief Home Ofﬁce Inspector recently con-
fessed to the Royal Commission that they “ never could distinguish
exactly which experiments were painless and which were painful,
and the experimenters and observers themselves could not dis-
tinguish, in a very large number of cases.” .. But even if the animal
were properly anaesthetised duringtheﬁcutting Operation, there is
the long drawn out agony during the watching process, where the
animal is allowed to linger on after its body has been mutilated
in various ways; in addition there are thousandsgof instances
where diseases of all descriptions are allowed to slowlyfgerminate

 

 

 

 




(9)

in animals’ bodies—some of them of the most revolting character.
Apart from the

USELESSNESS or VIVISECTION

and its torture, he maintained that it was unscientiﬁc. They could

never be certain that a result obtained in an animal would apply to

a human being. Professor Starling, a notorious vivisector, told

the Royal Commission a few weeks ago that “ the ﬁnal experiment

must be on man.” Why, then, were animals submitted to all that

torture for such a grave uncertainty ‘2 The fact that animals could

not speak destroyed all hope of knowing anything about their
symptoms, which were the most important means of obtaining

correct information. Turning to alleged discoveries, he came to the

arguments used by Dr. Ollerenshaw and Dr. Eastham when they
opposed Mr. Reed at a small meeting in Glossop two
or three months since. Dr. Ollerenshaw expressed his

surprise that so little opposition was shown to anti-

vivisection speakers who travelled about the country “ armed to

the teeth with uncorroborated statements and sentimental plati-
tudes.” Proceeding to give a few examples of experiments and of
the valuable knowledge they had gained by them, Dr. Ollerenshaw’s
ﬁrst statement was, “ the cause of the terrible disease popularly
known as consumption is a microbe.” Even if that were the case, it
could only be by the microscope that the tubercle bacillus could be
discovered and not by experiments on animals ; but because certain
germs were found in certain diseases, it did not prove that they had
caused that disease. The Chief Veterinary Ofﬁcer of the Local
Government Board recently acknowledged before the Royal Com-
mission that he could not say positively that the bacilli found in milk
were tubercle bacilli ; a similar bacillus was found in the flanks of
cows, in human beings, in manure and cowsheds, and abundantly in

hay and grass. At that rate, agriculturists ought to be all decimated

by consumption, whereas they are particularly free from it.

Dr. Ollerenshaw’s next argument was that “ until a few years ago
surgeons did not dare to operate with a view to removing a kidney
affected by such disease, it was thought to be too great a risk, and it
was not until Professor Rose Bradford’s experiments on dogs that
surgeons began to remove the diseased organ.” As a matter of fact
the Operation for removal of the kidney was one of the most ancient,
and was quite common in the time of Hippocrates, who lived 400

o
‘

 

 

 

 




 

(10)

years before Christ. (Laughter.) It was also done on criminals by
Italian surgeons in the seventeenth century. Therefore

THE CRUEL EXPERIMENTS

of Dr. Rose Bradford in 1896 were quite unnecessary ; and yet Dr.
Ollerenshaw said: “ Such a great stride in the treatment of this
awful condition could not possibly have been made had vivisection
been prohibited ” ! It had been done in that country forty years
before Dr. Rose Bradford tortured any fox-terrier at all. Dr. Olleren-
shaw went on to describe the alleged discovery of chloroform by
Sir James Simpson by means of experiments on Six rabbits, upon
the recommendation of Dr. Lyon Playfair, and he added, “ But for
the use of these animals chloroform might never have been dis-
covered.” But that was a pure fairy tale. Chloroform had been
already discovered by Liebig in his chemical laboratory ﬁfteen years
before Dr. Simpson made any experiment.

THOSE EXPERIMENTS WERE FIRST MADE

upon himself and his friends Drs. Keith and Duncan, who
all became insensible. and shortly afterwards chloroform was
given to a boy who was about to undergo an operation at the In-
ﬁrmary. Dr. Lyon Playfair was nowhere near the place. N 0
experiments on animals were ever made in connection with the dis-
covery of chloroform or its anaesthetic properties. Dr. Ollerenshaw
then proceeded to enlarge on brain surgery and the mapping out of the
brain into motor areas by Ferrier through experiments of the most
terrible character on monkeys. He extolled it as “ wonderful
research ” by which a surgeon, as he says, “ could put his ﬁnger on
the patient’s head and say under that spot exactly lies the area of
irritation.” N o surgeon with a reputation to lose would ever dare
to make such a statement upon the strength of experiments upon
monkeys’ brains. Ferrier himself said, “ Nor do the facts of
experimental physiology seem so consistent with themselves or with
the undoubted facts of clinical research as to inspire us with un-
hesitating conﬁdence as to their accuracy or as to their applicability
to human pathology.” The fact was,

THE CONTRADICTIONS

among physiologists upon that branch of research were notorious,
and it was these very contradictions that ﬁrst roused him to study

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

(11)

the subject of vivisection. and which ﬁnally led him to see that it
was a totally untrustworthy method of research. These centres of
the brain in man had been mapped out as the result of long and care-
ful study upon human subjects.

TUMOURS or THE BRAIN

by pressing upon certain part-s had produced certainvresults which
had been carefully examined after death, and the precise spots
where the mischief lay had been identiﬁed. By a succession of such
cases over long years, absolutely certain results had been obtained
without any need of the torture of monkeys, whose brains were so
different from man’s that they formed no certain guide for localisa-
tion. That was admitted not only by Ferrier but by Charcot, the
great French authority on brain surgery. Had they vivisected
the brains of all the animals in creation they could never have
discovered the centre for Speech. And if they could discover a
delicate centre like that without Vivisection, surely vivisection was
unnecessary to discover the coarser centres of muscular movement.
Dr. Ollerenshaw concluded by saying that they owed to experin
ments on animals the knowledge of decompression in the treat-
ment of “ caisson disease.” Why, it was known long ago that
divers brought up rapidly from a great depth were apt to suffer
from pains and even paralysis, and that if thrust back and brought
up slowly those symptoms were avoided. He himself wrote an article
in a public paper in which he referred to that fact more than ﬁve
years ago, and yet Dr. Ollerenshaw informed them the knowledge of
how to prevent diver’s paralysis was discovered by physiological
experiments on dogs and cats last year by Dr. Leonard Hill ! As a
matter of fact slow decompression by means of a medical air lock
was practised in making the Blackwall Tunnel as long ago as 1897.
Thus it would be seen that the medical gentleman who talked about
“ uncorroborated statements and sentimental platitudes ” of anti-
vivisectors made a series of assertions not one of which would stand
the test of ﬁve minutes’ investigation. (Laughter and applause.)

DR. EASTHAM FOLLOWED

Dr. Ollerenshaw in defence of the weird practice of Vivisection,
saying that this was a scientiﬁc subject and demanded “ scientific
thought,” and proceeded to give an instance of the value of vivisec-

 

 




 

 

 

(12>

tion culled from law reports. He said awoman was charged before a
coroner’s jury with having poisoned her child; she simply used
arsenic ointment on the child’s head to cure infection. The jury
did not believe her, as the medical expert found arsenic in the
child’s stomach. She was found guilty of wilful murder. But vivi-
section was resorted to, and Dr. Eastham announced, amid applause,
that rabbits anointed with arsenic died, and arsenic was sub-
sequently found in their stomachs, so the woman was acquitted.
He had sought all through the law reports for that case but could
not ﬁnd it. There was a case which bore some relation to it, how—
ever, the very earliest case he could ﬁnd, and was reported in
Taylor’s Medical Jurisprudence. The case occurred in 1864. The
girl was aged nine years. The mother had rubbed into her diseased
head white precipitate ointment mixed with arsenic. The child
died on the tenth day. The stomach was found upon post-mortem
examination, inﬂamed, and arsenic was found in the mucous‘ﬂuids.
A portion of the diseased scalp was examined and yielded arsenic
in large proportion. The report concludes: “ From the evidence
given at the inquest there was no doubt the mother’s account was
correct, and that her child had died from an ignorant application of
arsenic externally to a diseased portion of the scalp.” There was ,
no verdict of wilful murder, and therefore no vivisection, and he
could only conclude that Dr. Eastham had been misinformed, for
it had been known from time immemorial that arsenic or other
poisons rubbed into open wounds permeated the system. ,

The only other argument of Dr. Eastham was that anti-toxin
had cured diphtheria, and the death rate had been reduced in
hospitals from forty-six to twelve per cent.

THAT WAS THE LAST DITOH or THE PRO-VIVISECTORS.

That the death rate in hospitals had been reduced he admitted,
but he would ask Dr. Eastham to explain how it was that whilst the
fatality had been reduced in hospitals, the mortality from diphtheria
as compared with the living pOpulation according to the Registrar
General’s returns had gone up ? The death rate in England and
Wales for the ten years subsequent to the introduction of anti-
toxin was 235 per million, Whereas it was only 200 per million in the
ten years before anti-toxin was known. That did not look much like
a ‘9 cure.” Whilst. however, he viewed scientiﬁc experiments
upon living animals as cruel, unnecessary, unscientiﬁc and mis-

 




 

(- 1‘3 )"

leading, he would say that even had it been justiﬁed by proved
success in aiding the alleviation or the cure of human diseases. he
would still look upon vivisection as unjustiﬁable upon moral grounds.
Animals had rights, and they had no right to exploit them in this
way for their own selﬁsh ends. '

IN DAYS GONE BY

it was customary to extort from helpless prisoners, by means of
torture, secrets which otherwise could not be obtained. What was
done in those days in the name of politics and religion was done in
these days in the name of science. An increased sense of human
rights and justice, as well as of pity for the helpless and oppressed,
had caused such torture to be looked upon as immoral, and they
made the same claim for the poor and oppressed in the animal
creation.

THE RIGHTEOUS INDIGNATION

of a nation swept away the slave trafﬁc and the black man or
woman came to be looked upon as a fellow-creature who had a
claim upon the sympathy of a Christian state. Look at that dog"
as loyal, as affectionate as, perhaps more so, than any human being ;
he had saved their lives a thousand times, he would lick the hand of
the man who struck him his death-blow, and they allowed that
noble creature, that trusts them so implicitly, to be cut and carved
alive, and tortured in inconceivable ways in order to discover
secrets for their beneﬁt—for the beneﬁt of a creature inferior to it
in many noble traits. It was a cowardly science, it was contrary
to the whole tenor and spirit of Christian love and sympathy and
without hesitation he said it ought to be abolished. (Loud applause.)

DR. EAE'TI'HAM.

Dr. Eastham was greeted with applause on rising to respond. He
asked ﬁrst of all,What right had they to kill the animals which
could not speak for themselves that they might satisfy their desire
for food ‘2 As they saw, Dr. Ollerenshaw was not there that night,
against whom Dr. Hadwen had spoken the most. He (the speaker)
had come in for very little. He was only caught on the rabbits.
(Laughter.) His authority for that statement was the Blue Book

 

 




 

 

(14)

of the Royal Commission in 1875. Before that Commission Dr.
Alfred Swaine Taylor gave evidence, and said that “ the return of a
verdict of wilful murder by the coroner’s jury against a woman
charged with poisoning her step-child was prevented only by means
of specially instituted experiments on rabbits, showing it to be
possible that a person could get arsenic in the stomach by applying
arsenic ointment to the head to cure ringworm.” Therefore, his
authority was nothing more nor less than the Government Blue
Book, pages 55and 56, and question 1,162. Dr. Hadwen had
described to them the experiments in a most emotional manner.
He did not blame him for being emotional. It was his business
sometimes to go into Court, but he was only emotional when it paid
him. (Some little disorder was caused in the room.) Continuing,
Dr. Eastham said he had to

APPEAL TO SENSE

that night, and it was absolutely necessary to Speak to facts. Re-
ferring to the use of the drug curare, he remarked that Dr.
Hadwen had stated it was in daily use, but he (the speaker)
quoted the statements of three professors at different colleges, one
of whom said the use of the drug was given up long ago, and
another that in twelve months only four cases were treated with.
this drug. At Oxford curare was given to seven frogs, but they
were previously deprived of their brains so that they would not feel
anything. They would have no sensation ; and it was also given
to one rabbit and given in ether. He was not going to say that it
was pleasant to experiment on these animals. Dr. Eastham
then proceeded to deal somewhat with the history of experiments.

ONE OF THE FIRST EXPERIMENTS

made upon animals was an experiment made by a man called Galen,
who wanted to ﬁnd out what was inside the arteries and their action
during life. It was not a big experiment, but he just mentioned
it because it was a piece of interesting history, and at that time the
physicians and doctors thought that inside the arteries they had the
breath of life, whilst inside the veins they had blood. Galen cut
down and opened an artery, and tied one end and tied the other
a little distance from it. He then opened the artery and found it
contained blood. Well, it was a simple, straightforward experi-

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

(15')

ment that prevented any further theories being brought out. and
showed conclusively that inside the artery during life there was blood.
In 1628, Dr. Harvey wanted to ﬁnd out the working of the heart and
the circulation of the blood. With great diligence, and by frequent
investigation upon divers animals, he found out what he desired.
Now, how were they to ﬁnd out the working of the heart and the
circulation of the blood if they only examined corpses? How
were they going to ﬁnd it out unless they examined animals ‘2 It
was absolutely essential to know about the heart, and no scientiﬁc
medical gentleman would endeavour to treat a patient with the
heart disease if he did not know the working of the heart. Let
them take another view of the question. These experiments were
done to try and ﬁnd

THE ACTION or DRUGS

on living tissues. In the good old days, they used gold and amber
and pearls, and anything that was costly, with which to treat
disease. Then these experiments came in. If they took any ordin-
ary text book, they would see described the action of the drug on
the various parts of the body, and all that had been brought about
by experiments on animals. Angina pectoris was a very dangerous
disease of the heart. Some time ago Sir Thomas Lauder Brunton
had a patient suffering from this disease. He found that during
the attacks the pulse became quicker, the blood pressure increased
and the arteries contracted. It seemed probable that the great
rise in tension was the cause of the pain, and it occurred to the
physician he had named that if it were possible to diminish the
tension it would be possible to allay the disease. Sir Lauder
Brunton said : “ I knew from

UNPUBLISHED EXPERIMENTS

upon animals by Dr. A. Gamgee that nitrite of amyl had this power,
and therefore I tried it upon the patient. My expectations were
perfectly answered, and at the same time the pulse became slower,
much fuller, and the tension diminished.” That was the scientiﬁc
treatment of the disease, and it was by a drug that had been used
upon animals. And it acted upon animals just as it acted upon
man, in Spite of what Dr. Hadwen might say to the contrary, and
it was tried upon man and proved successful. If they took Taylor’s

 




(16)

text book on medicine, they would ﬁnd that the treatment for
angina peetoris was amyl nitrite, and that treatment was discovered
as a result of experiments on animals. He was going to ask Dr.
Hadwen if he would use that drug.

Dr. Hadwen : Yes. ,

Dr. Eastham said he was going to take advantage of those experi-
ments on animals. A man who denounced experiments on animals,
and yet used them, was very much like a man who denounced
slavery, and yet made his living by it. The speaker then went on to
refer to the extraction of digitalis from foxgloves. It was found that
this drug varied very much in its intensity, and in order to equalise
it there was only one thing to do, and that was to make the chemist
standardise it, which was done by experimenting on animals.
There was another drug, ergot, which was used by medical men in
maternity cases in very critical times, and when it was used it must act
promptly. but it was found in some instances that it was not up to
the required standard. Fancy a medical man going out to a critical
case and requiring the use of this drug, and then ﬁnding it was no
better than water. It ought to be tested beforehand on some
animal, and then it could be tested on the higher animal, man or
woman. ( Applause.)

 

 

DR. HADWEN’S SECOND SPEECH.

THE ARGUMENTS Nor MET.

Dr. Hadwen said he thought they would agree with him that
Dr. Eastham had not attempted to meet any of the arguments he
brought forward. The only thing that was left for him to do was to
answer Dr. Eastham. (Hear, hear, and applause.) In the ﬁrst
place they were asked what right had they to kill animals for food.
He could not be held guilty of that, because for the last thirty years
he had been a vegetarian. (Loud laughter and applause.) Another
thing, there was a difference between killing animals for food, and
torturing them and keeping them under torture. As to the question of

RABBITS AND ARSENIC,

he himself had quoted Dr. Taylor, and in that case the jury decided,
without experimenting upon animals, that there was no case of wilful

 

 

 




 

 

 

(17)

murder. What Taylor did after he did not know. As to the drug
Curare Dr. Eastham had completely given his case away, because
one of the letters stated that it had been “ given up,” which showed
that it had been used. Another professor admitted having given it
in four cases, and so on. One said he “ could not get any,” which
showed that he had been trying. He (Dr. Hadwen) had writtena
pamphlet called “ Some Recent Vivisections inEnglish Laboratories,’ ’
which anybody could get by applying for it at the ofﬁce of the
British Union, 32, Charing Cross, London, in which he had collected
from the vivisectors’ own books many cases in which curare was

given. He did not mean to suggest that it was used daily, and he .

had not used that expression, but it had certainly not been given
up. The question of a medical man who experimented being
conscientious had nothing to do with the case at all. He declaimed
against any medical man having a conscience torturing the poor
creatures in order to get something out of their torture for their
own beneﬁt. An argument had been adduced that Galen found the
arteries did not contain air, but blood.

GALEN ‘NEED NOT HAVE TOBTURED

a poor sensitive creature, for he could have cut his own skin and found
it out in two minutes. He did not know of anything more fallacious
than the arguments Dr. Eastham brought forward. There was
scarcely any drug they could be positive about by drawing an analogy
between an animal and a human being. With reference to the state-
ment as to the circulation of the blood, it would be a total im-
possibility to discover it by cutting into the living. It was not
discovered until some ten years after Harvey, when Malpighi
invented the microscope, and saw for the ﬁrst time the delicate
capillary vessels that completed the junction of the arterial and
venous systems, which anyone could see to-day by examining
the web of a frog’s foot. Dr. Eastham had Spoken of vivisection
as being useful to discover the action of drugs upon living tissue.
He supposed a grain. of morphia might send anyone in that room
into the next world. But they could give a pigeon twelve grains, and
it would be as merry as a‘ cricket on the hearth. They could give
rabbits belladonna, goats hemlock, and they would not be any the
worse, and goats could eat and chew tobacco like cabbage leaves
without feeling any ill effects. Prussic acid could be given to horses
with almost impunity, and yet a grain would kill off an elephant.

 




 

 

 

{18)

The action of strychnine‘upon two species of monkeys was dissimilar.
Whereas they could give it to one without any fear a small dose to
another would be fatal. It was one of the worst arguments which
he could have brought forward, because the testing of drugs on
animals was one of the most fallacious of ideas. N ow he
came to

THE STATEMENT

that he was prepared to. use nitrite of amyl for angina pectoris, but
he maintained that it was not discovered by means of experiments
upon animals. Long before Sir Lauder Brunton used it Sir Ben-
jamin Ward Richardson introduced nitrite of amyl into this
country, and he discovered it by experimenting on himself. (Ap-
plause.) His exact words were: “ I proceeded in the usual way.
I made myself the ﬁrst victim, and I tried the effect by taking it
both in the form of vapour and of fluid.” Coming to the question
of digitalis, Dr. Hadwen stated that he had given a good deal of
it in his time and also a good deal of ergot, but he had never troubled
to get the specially standardised preparations. He had never
gone to manufacturing chemists for their standardised drugs,
because he knew the whole thing was nothing but

ABSOLUTE HUMBUG.

Professor Cushny might perhaps be a very good authority upon
drugs as judged by the laboratory standpoint, but if he had to do
with patients by‘ the bed-side he would perhaps have more modiﬁed
views upon the subject. They could not possibly be certain of
deﬁnite results, because just as it was in human beings scarcely
two animals were alike. Dr. Hadwen proceeded at some
length to explain how Dr. Harvey had discovered the circulation of
the blood. It could not have been discovered by vivisection, but
even if it had been that was no reason why if those experiments were
performed in the barbarous days of long ago, they should be con-
tinued in the advanced civilisation of the present day. (Applause)
Therefore, supposing great discoveries had been made by vivisection
in days gone by, there was

No REASON WHATEVER

why they should answer the question that would be put to the
meeting intanyrother:way:than inEthe'jafﬁrmative. N ow with regard

 

 




 

(19)

to the question of the great point that Pro-Vivisectors raised, the
value of brain surgery. The whole idea of vivisection as regarded
brain surgery was absolutely fallacious, and the two great back-
bones of vivisection—the circulation of the blood and brain sur-
gery—seeing that his arguments had not been met, must now go.
There could be but one conclusion and that was that this cruel and
iniquitous practice ought to be swept away from a Christian and
civilised country. (Applause)

DR. EASTHAM’S REJOINDER.

Dr. Eastham said the opinions he gave the audience a little while
ago were not his own Opinions. He simply gave the opinion of
Dr. Cushny with reference to drugs. Dr.’ Hadwen told them
that Dr. Harvey worked these experiments out on paper and
thought them out. He (the speaker) knew that he thought them
out. Scientists did think their experiments out, and then by means
of experiments they ascertained whether their thoughts were
correct. (Applause) Dr. Hadwen ﬂatly denied it—well, the
audience could please themselves whether they would agree with
Dr. Hadwen or Professor Cushny. Was vivisection unscientiﬁc ?
The Council of the Royal Society were all unanimously in favour of
vivisection. That showed whether it was unscientiﬁc or not;
for the Royal Society was the highest distinction to which any
scientist could attain. And yet Dr. Hadwen told them it was un-
scientiﬁc. Were they going to follow the Opinions of Dr. Hadwen
or of the Royal Society? Dr. Eastham then went on to tell the
audience

WHAT VIVISECTION HAD DONE

to prevent the spread of infectious diseases by means of
inoculating animals with the micro-organisms, and studying
their effect. The statistics Of the death-rate with reference to
diphtheria had been quoted by Dr. Hadwen, but they were
of very little use for this subject, because the Registrar-
General took the percentage of the deaths upon the
whole of the population, whereas they ought to be taken of the
cases which were treated. (Applause) Referring to the value
and preparation of anti-toxin for cases of diphtheria, the speaker

 




 

(20)

stated that he wrote to hisold teacher, Dr. Goodall, medical super-
intendent of the Eastern Fever Hospital, Homerton, one of the
largest fever hospitals under the management of the Metropolitan
Asylums Board. He replied: “ With regard to the anti-toxin
serum, treatment of diphtheria, I have had a most extensive ex-
perience of this disease both before and after the introduction
of the anti -toxin treatment, and there is no question in my mind as
to its value. I should consider myself a criminal if I knowingly
withheld it in a case of diphtheria, except of the very mildest nature
in an adult.” Dr. Eastham gave further statistics showing how
experiments and inoculation had greatly decreased cases of cholera,
lockjaw, &c., and stated that these discoveries would not have
been made had it not been for experiments upon animals.
(Applause)

THE THIRD BOUND.

In reply Dr. Hadwen said he had been asked to give the name
of a single eminent surgeon of the present day who agreed with him
in his views upon Vivisection. He could assure them that no man Who
held his views would be looked upon as being eminent at all ; it was
a question of what was right and what was wrong. (Hear, hear.)
It was

N or A QUESTION or MINORITIES on MAJORITIES,

but of who was right and who was wrong. Dr. Eastham had told
them that the whole of. the Royal Society, composed largely Of
medical men, was dead against him (Dr. Hadwen). It was not
more than sixty years ago that a young man tramped the streets
of London in order to get his life insured. There was not one
medical referee who would insure that yOung man at ordinary
rates because he was a teetotaler. The medical profession were unani-
mously against him, they did not believe a man’s life was worth in-
suring unless he took alcohol ; so he set to work to form an insurance
society of his own. Two or three years ago that young man took
the chair at the jubilee meeting of the United Kingdom Temperance
and General Providence Association. That was proof that a large

 

 

 




 

(21)

number of scientiﬁc men might be unanimously wrong, and that a.
single individual might be right. (Applause) Their friend had
referred to infectious diseases, but had not attempted to sub-
Stantiate his statements. 3

HE WOULD CHALLENGE

Dr. Eastham to prove the existence of a single speciﬁc microbe for a
single speciﬁc disease. There was not a single infectious disease
at the present day of which a speciﬁc microbe had been deﬁnitely
proved to be the cause. Again and again witnesses had come
up before the Royal Commission recently, again and again they
had been cross-examined on this point, and not one had been
able to prove a single speciﬁc microbe as the origin of a single
speciﬁc disease. If therefore they could not ﬁnd a speciﬁc microbe .
for a single disease (and the whole of serumtherapy rested on
that theory), it followed that the practice was devoid of~ scientiﬁc
foundation. As to the claim on behalf of cholera serum, it was
a fact that Dr. Koch was the ﬁrst to discover the cholera bacillus.
Dr. Klein laughed at it, and took a whole tube ful of the bacilli in
order to show his contempt for the discovery, and was living to-day
to tell the tale. (Applause) With regard to lockjaw, they had
evidence of that before the Royal Commission. Mr. Stockman, the
chief veterinary officer for the Board of Agriculture, stated that he
could not say that tetanus serum was of much value as a curative
agent. As a curative agent it was practically given up. Now with
regard to the case fatality of diphtheria they had been given
evidence of London hOSpitals. He would also furnish evidence.
In the North-Western London Hospital belonging to the
Metropolitan Asylums Board, as stated in their report for 1904,
out of 530 cases of diphtheria admitted, 172 were treated without
anti-toxin, and they all recovered, and of the remaining 358 treated
with anti-toxin 4:3 died. He would give them the ofﬁcial report for
the whole of the hospitals under the jurisdiction of the Board. 5,422
cases of diphtheria were admitted. Of these 4,839 were treated
with anti-toxin, and 10 per cent. died, and of 583 cases treated
without anti-toxin, only one per cent. ended fatally. But the
reason why hospital statistics frequently show a great decrease in
fatality since the introduction of anti-toxin is easily explained.
Under the new regime of notiﬁcation and the administration of

 




 

(2-2)

anti-toxin at the very earliest onset of the alleged disease, ordinary
ulcerative sore throats that

THEIR GRANDMOTHERS

would have cured in four-and-twenty hours were now labelled
5‘ diphtheritic,” the patients were hurried into the hOSpital and
given anti-toxin, which, quoting very wickedly against his own
profession, really meant “ half-crown sore throats.” (Laughter.)
The number of cases—mostly harmless——was increased by this
method; the increase of cases since anti-toxin had been introduced
was enormous; and thus the fatality was brought down whilst
the mortality was going up. In Hull the death-rate before anti-toxin
was introduced was only '09 per thousand. At its introduction it
rose to '11. The year following it went up to '17, and in 1901 it
. was '15. The Hull Corporation became alarmed, and in order to
check the death toll they decided in 1901 to supply anti-toxin
free to the medical practitioners in the city. The result in 1902 was
that the diphtheria death-rate more than doubled and went up to '34.
In 1903 it was '30 per thousand; in 1905 it stood at '27, and last
year it actually rose to '51.

THE AVERAGE DEATH-RATE

in Hull from diphtheria for the ﬁve years it was supplied by the
Corporation was more than four times greater than during the ﬁve
years immediately preceding its introduction, when anti-toxin was
unknown. Instead of anti-toxin reducing the death-rate, it seemed
to have increased the death-rate. And yet by juggling with cases
and case mortality the authorities had actually shown a decline
in the diphtheria fatality although the deathorate was all the
time going up! No fewer than 13 different diseases had been '
attributed to the introduction of anti-toxin. If they wanted to
improve the health of the community, let them get rid of back-to-
back houses, let them have pure water and a proper system of
drainage, and inculcate healthier conditions among the people.
If they had a healthy body they had the ﬁnest resistance against
disease they could possess. They would never prevent disease
by giving disease, and pumping into the human system every

 

 

 




 

 

 

(23)

kind of excrescence from an animal’s body in a diseased condition,
in the hOpe of preventing diseases to which it bore no analogy.
(Applause.)

THE FINAL REPLY.

Dr. Eastham said that in the last speech they had had back-to-
back houses, healthy houses, ﬁlth, insurance, and temperance.
and he asked them, what on earth had they got to do with the
question at all, except to appeal to their emotions? Let them
get down to the solid issue, that was, should vivisection be abolished ?
Dr. Hadwen had quoted the death-rate ﬁgures of diphtheria, but
the case mortality ﬁgures showed how fallacious his arguments
were. Dr. Hadwen had spoken about half-crown sore throats.
but before the introduction of this serum treatment the case death-
rate in what were known as tracheotomy cases was much higher
than after. Before the introduction 70 per cent. of the patients
died. Now, if they would take the percentage in the same class
of cases since the introduction, instead of being 70 per cent., it
was only 31. Were they going to back up their opinions with
the authorities, and go in for scientiﬁc treatment, or were they
going to vote for Dr. Hadwen, against every eminent physician
and surgeon in the land ? Professor Sims Woodhead, Sir Frederick
Treves, the Royal Society, and the President of the Royal College
of Physicians (Sir Douglas Powell) were all against Dr. Hadwen.
Sir Douglas Powell, who appeared before, the Royal Commission
on March 5, 1907, was asked: “ Can you give us the name of any
leading member of the College of Physicians who holds a different
Opinion, and thinks that animal experimentation either is wrong
or leads to erroneous results?” The answer given before the
Royal Commission was, “ No; I really cannot. Ido not know of
anyone.” That meant there was not a man of any eminence
against vivisection. (Applause)

Dr. Eastham then went on to state that the anti-vivisectionists
had claimed Sir Frederick Treves as one of themselves, and that Sir
Frederick had complained that his words had been wrested from their
context and used in support of anti-vivisection, whilst Sir Frederick
Treves himself has been claimed as an anti-vivisector. At the con-
clusion of_Dr. Eastham’s speech Dr. Hadwen rose on a point of order

 




 

 

 

 

24)

to deny this, and the Chairman signiﬁed that an explanation could
be given if Dr. Eastham were again allowed to reply. Dr. Hadwenj
then denied emphatically that Sir Frederick had ever been described
as an anti-vivisectionist and challenged Dr. Eastham to show such a
statement in any anti-vivisection publication. He proceeded to
quote Sir Frederick Treves’ words, which were in their very nature
quite independent of any context. and which anti-Vivisectionists
felt were all the stronger as coming from a believer in vivisection:
-“ Many years ago I carried out on the Continent sundry Operations
upon the intestines of dogs, but such are the diﬁerences between the,
human and the canine bowel that when I came to Operate upon man
I found I was much hampered by my new experience, that I had
everything to unlearn, and that my experiments had done little
but unﬁt me to deal with the human intestine.” ,

Dr. Eastham, in reply, referred to the publication from which he
had taken the quotation (which turned out to be a report of one of
Dr. Hadwen’s own speeches) and asked, if it were not intended to
convey the impression that Sir Frederick Treves was an anti-vivi-
sector, why was it quoted at all ? (Cries of “N o, no 1”)

At the conclusion of the Speeches, the chairman put it to the
meeting whether the audience were in favour of the abolition of
vivisection or not. The result was to be determined by a show.
of hands, and by an overwhelming majority testiﬁed to its dis-
approval of the practice of vivisection.

On the motion of Dr. Hadwen, seconded by Dr. Eastham, a vote
of thanks was accorded to the Deputy-Mayor (Councillor T.
Braddock) for presiding.

. w
@W

 




 

 

“ To tho. readeqs'who may des’f
the Antqu d- ,0 have Shaw.
.as set forth-'3 ' : ‘ ’ y ,

in (their rWlllS
section,” and
being. ‘

 

 

 

 

To those who mayiv‘: ' ,
Somety, the fellowmg f0 1117" is reapectf ll, Us

. _ ‘ e , , "'llbe pond tethe‘fl” ﬂier-the Mme bangs-of-
memwned Eocene/hex buswel font of such may mym; [ «anal estate as
be bequeathed for ‘U-hamt 2e purposes, d , '

writing, s1oned by the Tee’oat'or, and attested
the Testator and 0‘ 6820 > other. , , ‘4‘ ,

An Animal Subs“ 913,911: of Taxi; “Si
‘ Remmcmces by Grossedh ' m. s.
accepted

An Annual P ‘

 




 

 

 

 

 

0213‘

1%,";
. ‘1'
u g‘ _

 

 

 




