 




RESPONSE \ )N meVER
UNDER WERE

 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE PO. Box 3650 Washington, DC. 20007

October 1, 1984

The Editor
The El Paso Times
El Paso, Texas 79900

 

Dear Sir:

In the September 19th issue of The El Paso Times, Ann Landers
listed nine research institutions whose animal care, she said,
were graded from ”'adequate to excellent'” by site visitors from
the National Institutes of Health. The institutions received a
total of $117,912,870 from NIH last year, although this figure
was not mentioned by Ms. Landers.

Recently the Animal Welfare Institute has conducted a study of
inspection reports obtained from the U. S. Department of Agri—
culture under the Freedom of Information Act. USDA Veterinary
Inspectors are charged with enforcement of the federal Animal
Welfare Act. Given the glowing report on these institutions by
Ms. Landers, one would not expect to find any deficiencies or
apparent violations of the Act. However, in checking our records,
we find only two of the institutions in this category. Three of
them fall into the category of major deficiencies and repeated
major or minor deficiencies. And one of them is apparently under
investigation in the preparation of a case for violation of the
Animal Welfare Act, since the Veterinary Inspectors' reports are
not available at this time under Freedom of Information Act rules.
So much for the ”high standards set by the National Institutes of
Health” as Ms. Landers calls them.

Not only does NIH apparently wear rose colored glasses when
investigating its grantees, they undoubtedly see institutions

at their best because they announce their plans to make a site
visit weeks in advance. USDA inspections under the Animal Welfare
Act are unannounced, as they obviously must be in order to obtain
compliance with the Act.

The standards of the Act are designated by law as ”minimum.“ The
AWI study shows that the 44 institutions out of the sample of 186
which had major and repeated deficiencies suffered not at all in

their funding; 79% of these institutions received more NIH funds

in the second year covered by the study than in the first.

Because such common abuses as grossly unsanitary cages, water

 




The Editor
The El Paso Times —2- October 1, 1984

vessels coated with green slime, cages too small for animals to
lie or stand comfortably, adversely affect experimental accuracy,
the public has every right to demand that its tax dollars be
expended only when experimental animals are decently treated.

Sincerely,

(35519:; 552M

Christine Stevens
President

 




 




a W
ADDED” ,.

October 8, 198‘

Mr. Michael Hathaway
Route 2, Box 111
St. Jahn, Kansas 67576

Dear Mr. Hathaway:

I agree with you that the Ann Lenders columns have been exceedingly
damaging to efforts to prevent needless pain for laboratory animals.
I note from the copy of the letter from Dr. McArdle that you were
able to send him an advance copy. I would greatly appreciate if
you could do the same for me in the event that she should decide

to write on this subject again. Enclosed is a copy of the letter
that I have sent to newspapers that I know ran that particular
column because their readers sent me a copy. As you can see, the
facts are otherwise than those presented by Ms. Lenders.

Because there are so few newspapers nowadays, I fear an attempt
to persuade people to boycott those which run her columns would
be doomed to failure. I certainly do think, however. that
readers should write complaining letters, and I appreciate the
depth of your concern.

a?
30

~ I am adding your name to the Animal Welfare Institute and Society
tor Animal Protective Legislation mailing lists.

s, 1%

Sincerely,

%

UL’JL ' 1

Christine Stevens
President

 

 

CS:lh

Enclosure

 

 




Cade

s TX 79946

 




ﬂ

 

9351 '21 Iaqmazdas 'KVPUON ‘SENIJ. OSVd '13 3H1

- Ani

Dear Ann Landers: Last night I read an
article that made me cry. It described the '
mutilation of animals in laboratories for the
purpose 0f medical research. It told about how
animals were poisoned, blinded by acids.
subjected to repeated electrical shock.

, disemboweled and their spinal cords cut.

3 You would do a tremendous service if you
2 exposed the horrible -
torture of helpless
‘ creatures and put a

"step to it. I beg you to

act on this. -- Tami In

Mpls.

. Dear Tami: A great

deal of prepaganda,

Ann Lenders

syndicated columnist

mals lend a hand to medicine

meet specifications, be air-conditioned and kept
clean. Potentially painful experiments must be
done under anesthesia.

Animal experimentation made it possible to
immunize millions of children, all over the
world, against polio, diphtheria. mumps,
measles, hepatitis, etc. Add to that list every
person who receives an antibiotic to fight

. infection, insulin for
diabetes,
anti-inﬂammatory
agents for arthritis.
chemotherapy for
cancer, medication to
control hypertension
and drugs for the

 

accompanied by . ‘ -,,‘-:~f-~' “ jj
heartbreaking '
photographs, has ignited a campaign to halt the
alleged cruelty to animals in research
laboratories. But before you get out your crying
, towtels (and Checkbooks), folks, here are the

ac s:

_‘ Some animal lovers have gone so far as to

i suggest that prisoners and elderly patients be

i used instead of animals. Add to that bizarre

‘ notion the fact that 13 million dogs and cats

,_ were destroyed in shelters last year because no

6 one wanted them. Yet thousands of well-heeled

organizations are trying to stop the use of

animals in medical research laboratories. I ask

I. you, does this make sense?

' Animals housed in universities. medical

“ schools, hospitals and research centers are

monitored by the US. Department of
Agriculture. Periodic surprise inspection visits
are conducted under the Animal Welfare Act.
The National Institute of Health has standards
govei’n‘mg such experimentation for all scientists
who receive NIH funds. Anim‘als' quarters must

treatment of mental

illness. Every person
who has undergone the replacement of a joint, .
or the reattachment of a severed finger or limb,
kidney dialysis, heart surgery or organ
transplantation owes a debt to animal
experimentation.

Pet lovers should be aware that the progress
made in veterinary medicine is due largely to
experiments on animals.

There has been a decline of about 50 percent
in the use of animals for laboratory testing since
1968 due to the development of highly
sophisticated test-tube techniques, but
experiments involving the heart and the brain .
cannot be performed in test tubes. They must be
conducted with live tissue. ‘

No person in his right mind wants to see an
animal suffer, but until the day comes when all
medical problems are solved, we must '
experiment with animals. So let’s hear it for the
dogs that went to Harvard. They may well have
made a more meaningful contribution to
humanity than some people we know.

 




ﬂovsmbsr 9, 1984

Ms. Wilma Cads
P. O. BOX 1014
E1 Pass, Texas 72-46

Bear'ﬂilma Cads:

Thanks so much for sending me a copy of the ”Readers write”
page of gas g; Paso Times in which my lsttsr appsarsé. I am
delightsé to hsar that Miss Funkhoussr is such a splsnoid cat
owner that her cat liveé to be 19. It is nice that a picture
of the cat was used to illustrate my latter.

 

Do you think she would look kindly on an soitorial in support
of tho Dole/Brown bills? Enclosed are copies of some recent
editorials and lssflsts on the subject which you might wish to

send her suggssting that shs night assign an editorial writgr to
GXPTQSS support fer this legislation or the writer of an Op~Ec
piece to oiscuss it. I would be hapoy to send whatever informa-
tion a writer might neeﬁ,

We save a hsrﬁ fight ahead of us in the coming legislative session,
and séitorial support is of the Very first importance in achisving
success. If you have any suggestions about this, be sure to let
me know, for it woulﬂ be a great help if :hg g; ﬁgsg Times would
encourage Texas legislators to supcort this urgently neeﬁcd
legislation.

Best Wishes,

Cﬁtlh

Enclosurss

 




{I “4‘" ’1

gal,“
‘ 3..
,H

[(7144, :4;

7, , ”a '
’ ‘L": V: . -‘
~~~*<'~"'

 




.‘
;
[I

I
,5! C" r," ﬂaky

\

i I ”alﬁm'f

'/

ZM ﬂuV/LL/{x’ie’ 10L.

.1

\

H?

,7" “
Jain -1;

x” ‘ I" r I .57

3,’ if", .. - / ,;

C ”#14 "/Z/ Li;

(5 ’I'

/ . L

' {'2‘ "'1

;

 




.._- --- w—ﬁov---

@hc “ [ 132mm @imcs— +~

Published daily by The. El Paso Times Inc. 3m“ 3- §chg4gﬁﬁient and Publish"
A member at the Gannett group *' Barbara Funkhouser. editor

Editorials are the position of The El Paso 54545113
Times. TheoEditorial Board is made up of those John Moore Paula Moore
listed at right. Syndicated columns are the “co-managing editors
opmions of their writers. Syndicated cartoons w- : ~ 546-6121
represent the opmions of the artists. Opinions of Cordl'Viescas Steve Hallock

readers are encouraged through Readers : mint editorial pa
Write. f m 546—6122 F

 

 

 

, . < ,r ‘ BO rba r0
’ ' . , h :lﬂ Funkhouser

 

 

 




decision may affe \ management

 

 

all .Of us mer member of El Paso Public Utilj- After the meeting. Rosson described a thorough investigation.
$323318? ty Regulatory Board. are acrhmilgnge: athtléglllcletias ‘t‘arrogant” . The commissioners are not wild-eyed,
- ' - ° . . sson ’ .-_ ‘ W P0351 . es 0 custom- frizzy-haired, drooling, anti-business fa?
mssron. . Ron Dusek sph‘llrteed??mllgrilaeolheﬁgttachesdsfosﬁgr 91:5. The other commrssroners agreed natics. Therefore, their comments can’t
'0‘” “new ‘ .. lip would barely make her audible. so With R°Ss°n~ . simply be neon-Domed and ignored, 4, ‘-
to say that “m" naturally, the hearing room was very} A management audit of El Paso Elec- The commrssroners also are not polite:
3:33; in 31°; quiet as Rosson calmly and deliberately me was ordered by the 00111311551011. cians slinging mud and exaggerating

mg in 1115—. crease. then slashed th
lold state-

Co.’s request for a $304 million rate in-
e company’s

rates by $9.8 million. Paso Electric.

delivered some of the most critical com.
ments one could expect from
mission about the management

Texas Utilities and Houston Lighting
and Power also face such audits. The
Texas Legislature ordered in 1983 that
utilities face~ management audits every

the com.
of E1

the facts in order to keep feeding at the
public trough. Therefore, their com-‘
ments may have to be. considered
seriously. If the commission is taken

r . . .‘ - . . 10 years. ri stockholders, will that
Slings: And ﬁrst“ Week. the commissmn She cited numerous instances Of What ' However. the commissioners also or- igugeugldy clllhnges in management at El
=rs duped screame . NO. to El Paso Electric she beheved to be management 111.15. dered a “behind the numbers” audit of Paso Electric?

felt threa- CO‘ 5 ”2,28“ for a “9'9 million rate m- takes and concluded that . there are .m‘ E1 P350 Electrics accounting books. if there never has been any potential
L frteaisg. fit) futE 11-31th by $343,489. The deed. serious dehcrencres m the guahty Rosson said what she meant by “behind for major management upheaval at El
since the‘ eludin ene £7 40 illi ascflucilstomers, m- 0f ““5 company 5 management. the numbers” was something more than Paso Electric. surely the potential is
’75 it has and o e: cuts 1‘: fuethrelaete lights £81131? She said the company had a bad am: a check of the company’s addition and there now. Here is something else to put
j or: utility be about $16.9 million. . tude toward Its responsrblhty to rate. subtraction. The agency also asked for

cy said, ' in opposition to El Paso Electric’s re-

The loudest voice on the commission

payers. The company believed it could
make mistakes and

 

then simply pass off

an investigation
Frankhn Land and Resources Inc.. a

of the dealings of

on our list of interesting wait-and-see
situations. .

 

  
 
 
   

_ the costs of those mistakes to the cus. subsidiary of El Paso Electric. Dusek is chief of the Austin Bureau
Electric quest came from Peggy Rosson. a for- tomers and then forget them. she said. ‘ No other utility, so far. is facing such of The Times. . "
l ' R w ' F
W .; u - . eaders nte
gamma YEEUT ME? humanism T t H t‘ rt" 1k : 'W .
'~ ~~ rea na Iona 1 res a 1 e ; at
murmur ovum: more, a .;
VOTEDWTHE m, EVER/UMP.” The population of the United: special privileges and represen— ; The El Reef) Times
mT THE my, States is made up of hundreds of tation, instead of gradually PO. BOX '30 0
different nationalities who came blending into our communities as _ El p380 Texaggggg
here and learned the language of others have done, our govern-- '
0111' country and blended in with ment will soon be much like the .. . .. .

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

draws boos, kudos

aster

Says Reagan is dangerous
hhe had not re-
'ts.

Unless U.S. voters wake up to reality, they are
ﬁgmgi tofelgiclt a gresident who (is dominated by a
- , ar 0 cc rs, compose of millionaires.
1311;311:123 5h“; and who has made it possible for the wealthy to
3 is deliberately operate virtually Without paying taxes. while he
’ has assaulted Social Security and Medicare for
the aged and housing and welfare for the poor.
Instead of paying taxes, which would have pre-
vented the budget deficit, the wealthy have been
financing a propaganda campaign such as this
nation has never seen.

This propaganda includes infiltration of col-

'one who heard

a Social Security g
noved from the
:rsons who were

 

 

 

the rest of the population quietly
and with dignity. ‘

Can you imagine what our
country would be like if the Irish.l
Germans, Dutch. Swedes. Finns.
Greeks, Swiss, French, Jews.
Chinese ad infinitum, each
formed a coalition demanding
special considerations, such as
having their language taught in
our schools?

Why not expect the people who
enter our country, because they
like it better thantheir own, take
the same chances the rest of us
took? If we allow too many peo-
ple from any one country to im-

V‘Zsmigrate at one time and demand

In the Sept. 19 issue of The E1
Paso Times, Ann Landers listed
nine research institutions whose
animal care. she said, were grad-
ed from “adequate to excellent”
by site visitors from the National
Institutes of alth. The institu'
tions receiv d a total of
$177,912,870 fr m NIH last year.
although this f ure was not men-
tioned by Lan rs.

Recently, the Animal Welfare
Institute condmted a study of in
spection repOIt‘s obtained from
the U.S. Department of Agricul-
ture under the Freedom of Infor-
mation Act. USDA veterinary in-
spectors are charged with en-
forcement of the federal Animal
Welfare Act. 7

‘ Given the glowing

  
 

 

government they fled. Do we
want that? . .

If we want equality and cml
peace in this country. let us treat
all men and women alike, re-
gardless of race, creed, color or
sex. People should be elected to
offices, admitted to colleges and
employed by businesses and
schools because of their quallflv
cations and paid. according to
their qualiﬁcations. Race, creed.
color or sex should not enter into
job considerations.

I abhor the term, “minority
groups.”

-—Norine Dickey
Las Cruces

H " Takes issue with column ’5 facts

time under Freedom of Informa~
tion Act rules. So much for the
“high standards set by the Na
tional Institutes of Health,” as
Landers calls them.

Not only does NIH apparently
wear rose~colored glasses when
investigating its grantees, but
they also undoubtedly see institu-
tions at their best because it an-
nounces its plans to make a site
visit weeks in advance. USDA in-
spections under the Animal Wel-
fare Act are unannounced, as
they obviously must be in order
to obtain compliance with the
act.

The standards of the act are
designated by law as minimum.
The AWI study shows the 44 insti~
tutions out of the sample of 186

 

   

[otters from readers are always
welcome. A greater number can be
published if writers limit them-

selves to 250 words. Letters will

be edited and signatures. address

and telephone number of the writer

must be included for veriﬁcation.

Please. no copies. clips or form

letters. The address is The El Paso

Times, Pf). Box 20. El Paso

79999.

OPPOSIHOI] hypocritical

Once upon a time in America,
there were two Baptist minis-
ters, Jerry and Jesse. Both were
dynamic preachers and attract—
ed large followings. Both decided
to become involved in politics,
and both founded organizations
to further their philosophies.

Jerry adopted a conservative
stance. Jesse a liberal one.

Jerry sought funds for his
group from individuals who
agreed with him. Jesse raised
money from liberals and was
granted funds from the federal
government. Jerry never sought
public office, backing, instead,
those individuals who agreed
with his conservatism. Jesse de-
cided to make a futile run for the
presidency and was given still
more federal funds.

The news media, including
your liberal Steve Hallock, loud»
ly condemned Jerry for his poli-
tical involvement, contending he
violated the concept of separao

* - ~ ~ report on that had ma'or and re eated de- '
h... tenants? and were ms... no? .. an m unﬁnished 55:28...ng
id to an extent been utilized as nevgr beforer de 5:13:31). ave tions by ’ ‘7“. their funding; 79 percent Of these Jesse for his humanitarian politi-
’ able to support sault on the environment with foot dragsgiahtg ac: Landers, one . insitutions received more NIH cal efforts, never once mention-
, . . ' cleanup and genuine conservation. 33:0 33:1 aenx. T """ funds in the second year covered ing the church-state controversy.
.eclsmn ordered And, worst of all. there has been a failure of y by the study than the hrSt‘

P the rolls, 3,114 foreign policy in dealing with Russia and nuclear
1011 until $061531 disarmament, the Middle East and Central
rove that dlsabl- America.
aen reduced to U.S. voters do not realize how vicious and dan-
n to work. « gerous Reagan really is.
aﬁon, With Rea" --W.E.. LOCkhart Jr.
rder. even after- Alpme
{gifgngymsfgg Likes Reagan for presrdent .
disability. When Ronald Reagan was California’s govero
[S then brought nor. the state employes union hammered him re-
1 effort to force gularly 111 its monthly newspaper.
- The union threw words and would-be rhetoric.
' . But Reagan came back kindly with a loving let~
0f the disabled. ter of thanks. The union’s editors may have been
d the decrslon, somewhat taken aback.
rarlly been de- Pehaps Reagan had nothing to do with the
2 not receiving letter. But perhaps he did and advised the public
to a clear cut relations man about its general wording. This
gneﬁts, regard- writer has made the mistake of votin for Rea-
- gap, and I am going to make anot er “mis-

    

deficiencies or, g.” " :J "'
apparent viola. " "ﬂag: ; .
tions of the act. ‘5'? ta.
However, in checking our rec-
ords, we find only two of the insti-
tutlons in this category. Three of
them fall intothe category of
major deficiencies and repeated
malor or minor efﬁciencies.
And one of them is apparently
under investigation in the prepa~
ration of a case for violation of
the Animal Welfare Act. since
the veterinary inspectors’ re-
ports are not. available at this

Because of such common
abuses as grossly unsanitary
cages, water vessels coated with
green slime and cages too small
for animals to lie or stand com-
fortably that could adversely af-
fect experimental accuracy, the
public has every right to demand
its tax dollars be expended only
when experimental animals are

treated decently.

-—Christine Stevens
president
Animal Welfare Institute
Washington. DC.

Reader will miss Mildred Smith

I read. Mildred Smith’s recent
letter With a feeling of sadness.
Was she hinting that we are near-

tion. The suggestion she might
change her residency away from

Not one peep from Hallock dur-
ing Jesse’s El Paso visit.

Can you wonder why I don’t
understand the fairness doctrine
in reporting? Oh, that we could
bring back Bill Hooten and Bill
Latham to replace Hallock.

“John W. Bailey
El Paso

Stop gun controls

Nothing is more American
than apple pie and gun owner-
ship. But gun owners should be-

' ware, as gun control may be an

important and well-hidden issue
in our Texas Senate race.

I infer from National Rifle As-
sociation . letters and other
sources that Lloyd Doggett al-
ways will support any form of

so many things‘ take” and vote for him again.

5 developed an
feel he can do
read four more
on in the offing
ghtful disaster
le not recover

‘rank Gardner
latch. N .M.

'—

 

He was somewhat responsible for pulling Cali-
fornia out of the red. It is impossible to remove
the present national indebtedne
has made an attempt. Perhaps
billion off. For that reason. he needs another run
at trying to ease the national bu

So. here’s my pledge to him come November.
He’s a great individual, in my estimation.

-—Mack W. Ready r
El Paso .

33. but Reagan

rden.

he kept a few vertently thrown

 

ing the end of an era or that the
Western handshake g no longer a
httle stronger? I clipped her let-
ter from The El Paso Times but
1t has been lost or has been inad-
3W3Y° I had
wanted to comment on this most
remarkable woman‘ aboUt whom
too little has been said.

I read between the lines and _

noted discourageme ungrate-
' fulness and lack at.

of civic coopera-

pressing part of all.

and mentioned
the Texas-New
stranger said,
is the tin can lady?”

Silver City

 

the Southwest was the most deo

Smith should know that her
fame has reached beyond El
Paso and its suburbs. Last year.
while I was visiting in the East
that I was from
Mexico region, a
“Oh yes, and how

-—Bradford Hodges

 

gun control, whereas his oppo-
nent, Phil Gramm, has been a
leader in fighting against such
controls. Kent Hance also op-
posed gun controls.

Texas is no place for gun con-
trols, and the time to stop adv0o
cates of gun control is before-
they get into the U.S. Senate, not

afterwards.
-—R.C. Corbyn
Amarillo

 




9/1/92 47W} WtE/i/fd/W 1W

1 ma Cade ,
x 1014 61:
Ma TX 79946 E;

/“

/ 7M

:7 2/4 5 ﬁ’

”if-1’ ./

/

 




x74
/‘ 45'5": $223“
. /

(,

-: , 9 ./

.1/

(1:)
z“; _r \ .
.' [Z _ /
.1 .
k V 'L” ‘4 #éh/A” -6 I /

. ‘ 7
/.l - ,' " .1 "-11!” r ’
t/fri’fZ’Q-<:y/ C u,/, o L- J K~

/

 




   

.1in standards protect lab ammals

. '7'" 1' Readers: Do you remember the abusive medicine

V ett‘e s I received because I printed a column in The areas where most animals were kept met
support of animal experimentation? I listed 1 the requirements and care was graded from
many diseases that never would have been “adequate to excellent. ”

conquered had medical researchers been denied It should hearten my readers to know that

the right to use ammal models l‘installatioins where animal research is being

I thought you might be interested 1n the conducted will receive no government funding ‘
following information:

   
    
       
         
       
     
   
        
    
   
    
 
   
   
   
    
 
     
   
   
   
   
     
     
     
    
 
     

  

 

 

unless they meet the high standards set by the
Inititlit’tsgs (ﬁhﬁgatttilonal ﬁatilogal Institutes of
‘- published notices about ea t .

their plan to conduct .
site visits to institutions
. receiving government
5 funding. The purpose
' was to ensure that the
. animals used for
research were being
treated humanely.
Between June and September the following :
institutions were visited: 5»
Brandeis University, Waltham, Mass.
New York University, New York City.
Children’s Hospital of Pittsburgh.
F1Bethune- -Cookman College, Daytona Beach,
3
Northwestern University, Evanston, Ill.
- University of Texas-Austin, Austin, Tex.
St. Louis University, St. Louis.
LDS Hospital, Salt Lake City.
Syntex Research Division, Palo Alto, Calif.
University of Washington, Seattle.
The site-visit teams consisted of a
veterinarian, a biological scientist currently
working with animals and an NIH
scientist/administrator. Non-federal consultants
were included to guarantee impartiality.
The results were as follows: No incidents of
animal abuse were observed. At all institutions,
a full- or part-time veterinarian had been
appointed. In most cases the appointee had
advanced train__1_r__1_g___i_1_1_ laboratory ammal

Ann Lenders
syndicated columnist

 

 

 

 

 




' ‘
.l 1 T

’ I ~

. advice/[1M

ANN LANDERS

DEAR READERS: Do you remember the abu-
sive letters I received because I printed a column
in support of animal experimentation? I listed
many diseases that never would have been con-
quered had medical researchers been denied the
right to use animal models.

I thought you might be interested in the follow—

ing information:

In 1983, The Nation—
al Institutes of Health
published notices
about their plan to con-
duct site visits to insti-
tutions receiving
government funding.
The purpose was to en-
sure that the animals
used for research were
being treated humane-
1y.

Between June and September the following in-
stitutions were visited:

Brandeis University, Waltham, Mass.

New York University.

Children’sHospital of Pittsburgh.

Bethune-Cookman College, Daytona Beach,
Fla. -

Northwestern University, Evanston, Ill.

University of Texas-Austin.

St. Louis University.

Latter-Day Saints Hospital, Salt Lake City,
Utah.

Syntex Research Division, Palo Alto, Calif.

University of Washington, Seattle.

The site—visit teams consisted of a veterinarian,
a biological scientist currently working with ani-
mals and an NIH scientist/administrator. Non-
federal consultants were included to guarantee
impartiality.

The results were as follows: No incidents of ani-
mal abuse were observed. At all institutions, a
full- or part-time veterinarian had been appoint-
ed. In most cases the appointee had advanced
training in laboratory animal medicine.

The areas where most animals were kept met
the requirements and care was graded from "ade-
quate to excellent.”

It should hearten my readers to know that in-
stallations where animal research is being con-
ducted will receive no government funding unless
they meet the high standards set by the National
Institutes of Health.

 

 




“W

M. L346} ]
,.» .
s, .. '
‘, :. K- 3 .-
‘ " v’ «1‘.
- Wt
M -;.;.::.;:. ".
. ; E #514131“.
. , .

Miss Ru ‘7.
‘2‘?» Bai‘mm S .
Sewage, L. ., N. Y. 1X714

 




w w 'v ,f .17 7—.

1.

\ll ' finds no lab anlmal abuse

)EAR READERS: Do you remem-

the abusive letters I received be- .

lse I printed a column in an port
animal experimentation? listed
ny diseases that never would
re been conquered had medical
earchers been denied the right to
:animal models. -

thou t you might be interested
he folo owing information:

11 1983, The National Institutes of
111th published notices about their
11. to conduct site visits to institu-
ris receiving government funding.
3 purpose was to ensure that the
male used for research were
11g treated humanely.

Between June and September the
owing institutions were visited:
:randeis University, Waltham,

Eew York University, New York

Shildren’ 3 Hospital of Pittsburgh.

Bethune-Cookman College, Dayto-

Beach, Fla.

\Iorl'ilhwestern University, Evan-

n, ,

Jniversity of Texas- Austin,

stin, Tex. 9

St. Louis University, St. Louis.

'.DS Hospital, Salt Lake City.

iyntex Research Division, Palo

o, Calif.

J n1verslty of Washington, Seattle.

The site-visit teams consisted of a

erinarian, a biological scientist

rentl NIIYI working with animals and
scientist/administrator.

L32; 4.», _____,_ - _ __ML_I._._. _LIAgﬂnjnL.

 

Ann Landers

Non- federal consultants were in-
cluded to guarantee impartiality.

The results were as folloWs: No 1n-
cidents of animal abuse were ob,-
served. At all institutions, a full- or
part-time veterinarian had been ap-
fpointed. In most cases the agpointee

ad advanced training in l aoratory
animal medicine.

The areas where most animals
were kept met the requirements and
care was graded from "adequate to
excellent.’

It should hearten my readers to
know that installations where
animal research is being conducted
will receive no government funding
unless they meet the high standards
set by the National Institutes of
Health.

 

D D E]
DEAR ANN LANDERS: My

advice to that 28-year-old male in

Dubuque is: Grow 11 His bed
companion didn’t soun to me as if

she was trying to trick him when

she said she was getting off the
Pill. His response, "For heaven’s
sake, use something,” suggests he
was unwilling to accept any re-
sponsibility whatsoever if she
became pregnant.

The Pill is not for everybOd

 

(I;

1 w 11:11 11.1, 11111711116, riua‘ﬁ t‘iolaiu, vvcuiic‘bUdy, Depibiiibu IJ, 1:704 -

  
    
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 

Women who have had a history of
cancer should never use it. It also
can be expensive. I Wonder how
many men offer to alleviate the
burden of that expense?

Any man who is halfway decent
will discuss with his rlfriend the
various methods of filth control
and settle on somethi 1‘ that 15 mu-
tally satisfactory. If s ‘ cannot be
depended on, or d h’t wish to
take total responsibiliﬂy, he should
use a condom or staydu dut of bed. -.-
Responsible In Will aigsburg

DEAR R.: Your advice is sound
but unrealistic. Telli‘ ‘ ‘
stay but of bed is like telling a cat
to stay away from a bowl of cream

While the condom is not 100 per-
cent fail- safe, it’s more effective
than the rhythm system and has
become more widely used since
genital herpes reared its ugly head.
Pay attention, out there.

Cl ' D [2]

Ann Landers’ new booklet, "Sex
and the Teenager, ” explains every
aspect of sexual behavior —— where
to draw the line, how to say no, the
various methods of contraception,
the dangers of VD, the symptoms
and where to get help. For a copy,
send $2 and a ong, self-addressed,
stamped envelope (37 cents post-
a e) to Ann Landers, P. O. Box
1 996, Chicago, Ill. 60611.

  

     

 

.....

  
   
   
    
 
     
     
  

if]? I’ m an 017le
aﬂicipating Dealer
in (be Free Phone

Promotion from
11 Paul AN? R0. '\'.

 
   

. I?

I

Y:

   
   

v r—V__v_.'_.‘ ri'ri'v'f. LA




 




 




       
   
   
   
           
            
 

Octher

   

2Q, 1984

 

L 1ne Gibscm
'ﬁ Linceln Avenug
gd‘A 44460

bear M133 Gibsan:

     

Khankg for writing abeut thg Ann Landers cclumn.

 
     
      
 

I hava written t0 a unmbe‘ of papers where it
ap§eareﬂ, but the ”31y one that has printed my’

lgtter am far as I know is gewsdav. I enclose
a cepy. '

  
   

        
   

U.)

1,,
n

Eagt wi

33’}

5:

Sincerely,

 
     

Christina
Secratary




k. a.g. XL/

Please send to me at 782 South
Lincoln Avenue, a c0py of your
"Snowball" pamphlet, and any

0 her mater1al that mayﬂaaﬁyince

Ann Landenﬂ EH at Iaboratory ani-

mals needihelp.

Her im:rluence is very great, and
ourfiocal paper has just pub-
lished her second Pollyanna reply
on the subject.

I hav<aused all my material for
the local editor, hOping to get
results before the October 4 dead—
liné--- but am indignant enough
with the columnist to wantto fol-
lOW Up.

The best of good luck to you alw

ways,
mp 62.

(Miss Katherine Gibson)

 




AGED m HAN
m THE POSTAL ssﬁﬁ'ﬁ?

Society for Animal Protective Legislation
P.O. Box 3719
Georgetown Station
Washington,

’ 0.0. 20007

 




Tn: hisnixcrox Posr

M

 

The openin
ebullie '

a sense of character and context, and the Cho~
pin ‘Taun‘taisie Polonaise" and Schumann’s
monumental C Major “Fantasie” were
projected with breadth and strength.

It was a program full of climaxes that might
have been even more powerful had there been
a few moments of musical repose.

~Joan Reinthaler

r Symphony
at from Jesterdayis [are editions
it becoming a major musical organization,
Fairfax Symphony Orchestra under con-
.stor William Hudson delivered a challenging
.2ng Sunday at the Kennedy Center. It
rforrned Kabalevsky’s Overture to “Colas
areugnon,” Barber’s ‘Music for a Scene From
helley,” and Strauss’ “Don Juan.” The high-
ight of the concert was the internationally
elebrated Janos Starker’s performance of
I orak’s Cello Concerto in B Minor.
The F ‘ ax Orchestra’s strings section
unded fuller than ever. Its performance of
.e Barber work was a ﬁne display of lyricism.
What can one say about the acclaimed
arker cello tone? It simply transcends the
urnsiness and the nasal quality inherent to
e cello.

—-I.ouis J. Wasser

... n, I: I.
at .«s a hikestra
”MM

rm W! ﬁ'om yesterday 3' 30!: edition:

Sun Ra and his 12-member American Des-
_v Cheering ﬁrl'estra estimated a 900-
cs'ig gathering of revelers in costume, de-
ed fans, students of Afro-American music,

curious and the astonished Sunday night at

. Old Post Office Pavilion.

Ra entered in a flowing red cape and lame
llcap. In turn directing the stomping or-
stra at his back with outstretched, wiggling
ers, vocalizing on space themes or diggin

‘ the blues at the piano, Ra was at the cen-
of a multimedia extravaganza.

'er’cussion abounded and dancing erupted,
reed section riffed and roared, the tram
. blasted tailgatestyle into the ’805. There
Ellington, “Mack the Knife" voiced a la
.strong, freedom) frenzy and bigsband

--W. Royal Stokes
\\

anﬁmﬁa
>.- 3. _. r‘

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

WFMZPTPY-"ZW'W‘VW‘"? n' "2"" - ’9’ ""7”“ ‘ "’- ' ‘
fawn—slungxraréﬁy a. 2 .14 -. '

l
‘ .. : W" :1?” . , .
~ * " bwsaat.L.—.;Jmmwmm

ear Ann Lenders:

 

r g; Iread something in the

Cincinnati Post that did my heart
good. I hope you will print it even
though the hot weather is no longer

 

with us in many parts of the North
Anierican continent. The moral of the
story is a good one. People who treat

 

their pets in an inhumane manner
should be punished by law. Here's a
slightly edited version. I am deleting
the woman's name. She’s had enough
unfavorable publicity to last her a
lifetime. .

An Anderson Township resident will
spend the weekend in jail after being
convicted on a charge of cruelty to
animals. The 37-year-old woman was
found guilty of leaving her dog and cat

 

 

 

 

in a locked, unventilated car at the
Beechmont Mall. Passers-by saw the
two animals in the car and called the
Hamilton County sheriff’s department
and the Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals. -

SPCA dog warden Bernard Tigges
told Hamilton Municipal Court Judge
Sandra Beckwdth that when he arrived,
the dog, a standard poodle named
Hannibal, was barely breathing. Police
broke into the car with coat hangers
and put the animals on the pavement.
The Siamese cat, Merlyn, seemed all
right, the warden said, but, “We had to
lift the dog out. We thought he was
gone.” The owner of the animals was
fined $250 and court costs and
sentenced to 30 days in the workhouse.
The judge suspended all but three days
of the sentence.

Are you as happy about this as I
am?-CLD in Ohio
Dear CLD:

I’d be a lot happier if more judges
were tougher on convicted rapists and
child abusers.

Dear Ann Landers:
To the man who complained about

”‘ misty, overcast fall day, the kind of
weather that frizzes the hair and
heightens the fiery colors of the
foliage. Warner, in khakis and a tan
ﬂannel shirt, is burning the pota-

toes. Th . 2--

555?! [M B

the high price of haircutswespecially
for guys who have very little
hair—here’s a solution: I go to the
barber once every six weeks. In
between I trim with shears I bought in a
drugstore. It works swell.-—-Call Me
Hairless But Not Brainless "
Dear H. But Not 8.: . -' ~

As long as you do a fairly professional
job—-fine. But self-inﬂicted soupbowl
cuts are an abomination. Please check
out your home barbering with a trusted
friend.

Dear Ann Landers:

My husband and I are planning to
start a family. Twelve years ago when I
was 17, I had an abortion. I kept it a
deep, dark secret. No one knew but the
doctor who performed it in his office.

Is it necessary to give my
gynecologist this information? I worry
about the Rh factor or some other
medical reason that might make it
imperative. This information must not
be on my record because I don’t want
my husband to find out. My ultimate
concern, however, is for my baby.
Please advise.—-Sweating in Nashville
Dear Sweating:

By all means your doctor should
know. If you ask that the information
not he recorded, the doctor aimost
certainly will respect your wishes.
Unfortunately, office personnel
sometimes talk.

Dear Ann:

Since you spend so much time with a
typewriter, you may find the following
fact of interest: The longest word in the
English language that can be written on
one row of keys contains 10 letters. It
is the word TYPEVv’RITER.~——Md.
Friend '

Dear Md.:

Not surprising. That row has 10

letters, the next row has only nine and

the last row has seven.
('3 l984, News Group Chi-{380 Inc.

Elizabeth Taylor, the star.

he says like man who has a noint

i
l

v .- . l. 4.: . wmw Wm7”’:€”’?f~’?"wnu " i
‘ aim “ﬁlmwmimumwnan.“ um

 

 

 

 

 

 

lieve that those last votes were for

“Much has been written, much
has been said about that election,”

 

 




SOCIETY FOR ANIMAL PROTECTIVE LEGISLATION
P. O. Box 3719
Georgetown Station
Washington, 0.0. 20007
(202) 337-2334

September 19, 1983

Ann Landers

Chicago Sun Times
Dai ly News Bui ldi ng
401 N. WabaSh Avenue
Chicago, IL 60611

Dear Ann Landers,

A few months ago, we talked about the bill introduced by
Senator Dole to improve standards for laboratory animals and mini-
mize their pain and distress, and I was very grateful for the concern

you expressed.

I was sorry to see in your September 12th column signs of the
hand—out being distributed by a group opposed to this much—needed
legislation who are trying to keep the old—fashioned pro— and anti—
vivisection argument going in order to cloud the real issue: needless
pain and suffering inflicted on test animals. -

The Association of Professors of Medicine are deliberately
misleading people with a number of their claims. First, the confu—
sion they seek to create about human experimentation. If they wish
to discuss the use of prisoners and patients as experimental subjects
they ought to admit that it took a long, hard fight to establish
the Institutional Review Boards which now protect institutionalized
human beings and children from overzealous medical and psychological
researchers. Many horrible examples had to be publicized to get the
necessary action to prevent government funds from being awarded to
scientists who conducted cruel and dangerous experiments on human
subjects. You characterized human experimentation as "bizarre," but
a great deal of experimentation continues to be carried out on
people. NIH estimates their grants are 25% for human experimentation.
'It isn't people who are worried about animals who are experimenting
on other people. Quite the contrary, it is scientists who oppose
reasonable efforts to protect experimental animals who also do

human experiments.

The second point in your column/"thousands of well—heeled organi-
zations are trying to stop the use of animals in medical research
laboratories” is;simply non-factual. Anti—vivisection societies do
exist, and a handful of them could be accurately described as "well-
heeled”. But it's interesting to note how they're spending their
money these days. Large sums are being donated by these organiza-
tions to medical schools tn develop alternatives to laboratory
animals so that, especially in toxicological tests where massive
numbers of animals are used, non—animal methods can be substituted.

 




-2-

Projects funded by anti—vivisection societies and cosmetic manu—
facturers are being carried out at the Johns Hopkins University,
University of Pennsylvania, Tufts, and Rockefeller University.

Third, it is not true that “potentially painful experiments
must be done under anesthesia." There is no federal or state law
or guideline to require this. Massive animal suffering, both in—
tense and long.drawn out is taking place in U.S. laboratories every
day of the year. Much of this pain is unnecessary. It goes on
because moderate, sound legislation such as the Dole bill is opposed
by groups who do no hesitate to give false information to the press.

A\majorropponenttoffhumane legislation is the Association for
Biomedical Research founded by the world's biggest animal dealer
and breeder, Charles River Laboratories, a multimillion dollar
multinational whose profits depend on using the maximum numbers of
laboratory animals. They're the ones who recently threw off an
estimated one thousand scientific experiments by selling the re-
searchers (mostly cancer researchers) mice that were not of the.
pure genetic strain required for the scientists' work. A woman
scientist at the University of Wisconsin is suing Charles River,
and the University is preparing a second law suit. I mention this
to show you the nature of the vested-interest—opposition that
attempts to get decent treatment of experimental animals runs into.

You are correct in saying that the Department of Agriculture
inspects research facilities and that the National Institutes of
Health has standards for grantees, but you'll remember, too, that
Dr. Edward Taub had to be brought to court by the State of Maryland.
NIH had given him grants amounting to about 2 million dollars over
the years and had received complaints about his laboratory but did
nothing till the scandal occurred.

I hope you'll write a follow—up column, not to stop animal
experimentation, but to stop mistreatment of animals in this huge
industry. The United States uses more animals than any other country
in the world. It's up to us to see that they are treated properly
and used only when scientifically necessary.

Sincerely,

Cﬂwm' 55;.)

Christine Stevens
Secretary

 




 
  
 
  
 
 
 
  

 

 

 

 

ar Ann Landers:

9.

.‘tion of animals in laboratories for
fr purpose of medical research. It
{a a about how animals were poi-
-' ”ed, blinded by acids, subjected to
eated electrical shock, disembo-
led and had their spinal cords cut.
You would do a tremendous ser-
“ vice if you exposed the horrible tor-
ture of helpless creatures and put a
stop to it. I beg you to act on this—’—
Tami In Mpls. '
Dear Tami:
~A great deal of propaganda, ac-
companied by? heartbreaking photo~
raphs, has ignited a campaign to
gait the alleged cruelty to animals in
research laboratories. But before you
get out your crying ‘towels (and
checkbooks), folks,. here are the
facts:
"Some animal lovers have gone so
tar as to suggest that prisoners and
,l‘derly patients be used instead of
hnimals. Add to that bizarre notion
the fact that 13 million dogs and
{cats were destroyed in shelters last
{year because no one wanted them.
:Yetthousands of well-heeled organ-
Iazations are trying to stop the use of
nimals in medical- research labora-
Eories. I ask you, does this make
sense?
f "Animals housed in universities,
medical schools. hospitals and re—
}search centers are monitored by the\
lU.S. Department of Agriculture. Pe-
iodic surprise inspection visits are
iconducted under the Animal Welfare
iAct. The National Institutes of
Health have standards governing
{such experimentation for all scien-
§tists who receive NIH funds. Ani-

.L—_

 

‘5 Last night I read an article that
33 ‘de ,me’ cry. It described the mu- .

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

speciﬁcations, be air-conditioned and
kept clean. Potentially painful exper-

iments must be done under anesthe- .

sra. . ‘

Animal experimentation made it
possible to immunize millions of
children 'all over the world. against

polio, diphtheria, mumps, measles, '

hepatitis and other diseases. 'Add to
‘ that list every person who receives
an antibiotic to ﬁght infection, in—
sulin for diabetes, anti-inflammatory
agents for arthritis, chemotherapy.
for cancer, medication to control hy-
pertension and drugs for the treat-
ment 0f mental illness. Every persOn,
who has undergone the replacement
of a joint, or the. reattachment of a
severed finger or limb, kidney dial-
ysis, heart surgery or organ trans-
plantation owes a debt to animal
experimentation.

' Pet lovers should be aware that
the progress made in veterinary
medicine is due largely to experi-
ments on animals.

There has been a decline of ap~
proximately 50 percent in the use of
animals for laboratory testing since
1968' due to the development of
highly sophisticated :gtest-tube tech-
niques, but experiments-involving

mals’ quarters must .meet space

 

the heart and the brain cannot be
performed in test tubes. They must
he conducted with live tissue.

' No person in his right mind wants
to see an animal suffer, but until the
day comes when all medical prob-
lems'are solved We must experiment

 

with animals. So let’s hear it for the
dogs that went to Harvard. They
may well have made a more mean-

 

 

ingful contribution to humanity than

some people we know.
' 1983, Field Enterprises Inc.

/

 
   

_.._. ..-,t-..,.l..,-mwMWS-W ~.- " ’- " .

n a"... .

wmw a... ._. .. ._ _._ .

 

 

 

 

 

 




The Denver Post Saturday, Nov. 12, 1983

Open Forum

 

 

Reply to Ann Landers’ column
on animal experimentation

To The Denver Post:

Erroneous statements in two recent col-
umns by Ann Landers may mislead readers
as to the law on animal experimentation.

On Sept. 12, Ms. Landers stated, “-Poten
tially painful experiments must be done un-
der anesthesia.” .

Fact: No law, either federal or local, re-
quires anesthesia if the experimenter or
laboratory worker decides not to give it.
Rabbits scream in agony when subjected to
the Draize eye irritation test, but no law
can force test labs to dull the pain.

Ms. Landers says that “thousands of
well heeled organizations are trying to stop
the use of animals in medical research lab-
oratories. ”

Fact: Anti-vivisection societies do exist,
but they are small in number, with perhaps
four or five which could be honestly char-
acterized as “well-heeled.” By contrast
there are hundreds of animal protective or-
ganizations seeking not to stop the use but
to end . the severe abuse, the neglect and
the use of excessive numbers of laboratory

animals. '
Ms. Landers accuses “animal lovers” of L
suggesting the “bizarre notion" of experi- I‘
menting on “prisoners and elderly pa- ;
tients” instead of animals .
Fact: Animal protective groups far from
wanting to substitute people'for experimen- ,
tal animals are working instead to substi-r'
tute tissue cultures,- bacteria and comput~

.ers where practicable.

Ms. Landers’ Oct. 31 followup column
tells pet owners to “stOp spending millions
of dollars on ads and mass mailings in an
attempt to eliminate medical research on
animals.”

Fact: No sums remotely approaching a
million dollars are being spent for this pur-
pose. Even the ‘anti-vivisection societies
are Spending a substantial proportion of
their funds on grants to scientists in medi-
cal schools to develop practical substitutes
for laboratory animals in painful tests.

‘ CHRISTINE STEVENS, Secretary

Society for Animal Protection Legislation

Washington. D. C.

 

 




W W
‘é2ngwoﬁ%n§;k¢é%hw%%y
{W W 5&67/

November 2, 1983

Christine Stevens

Secretary

Society For Animal Protective
Legislation

P.O. Box 3719

Georgetown Station

Washington, D.C. 20007

Dear Christine:

I do remember visiting with you, and I was looking forward to
your letter, which never arrived. This is not unusual given
the Chicago area mail delivery system.

I have discussed this controversy with several physicians and
medical researchers, including two Nobel Laureates, Dr.
Fredrick Robbins of the National Academy of Medicine and
Torsten Weisel of Harvard.

They all tell me some testing could be done in labratory
dishes, but many must be performed on animals.

Undoubtedly, there is some mistreatment of animals (under-
anesthetized, small cages, etc., etc.) as there are abuses
in every area of performance.

When abuses are discovered, steps must be taken to halt those
abuses. It is the only way to put an end to it. When one
considers the thousands of experiments performed daily, in
various labratories, it's virtually impossible for any

one agency to police them all.

Thank you for writing. I understand your concern and appreciate
your taking the time to express yourself. You are a senstive,
fair—minded woman.

Best wishes,

liiir,.ll- // ,
ﬁWL‘y’ ~» ‘ ~

 




‘ L/u do www ., 499/, ‘
M £14 mam. d7 #2 ” a @ ‘ 7m 4;

€O/ /U WW
WW, I4 ww/

70 W “W ‘*°%é:ﬁ ”‘6’ W

@015 .//776",
C Waﬁc/ I4 606//

MWWW Wﬁu‘a WW 4%

MH/QL/z} Tweak
63/079 600/0776 VS/ﬂE C66
NHPE/eu/LLE, IL 6CLS’éS’

 




PAGE 30 LIVI NG

 

A ’ Animal research.
helps to advance"
medical progress

EAR -.A-NN- unease.

i

q.~.~mo~.—.éwo --r

 

tion of animals .‘in laborato-
7 rice for the purpose of'medi-
cal research. it told about
' how animals-givers,.poisoned,
blinded by acids, ‘subjected
to repeated electrical shoal},
disemboweled and their Splri
ml cords cut. ;

iYou would do a tremen-
~dons service It you exposed

 

 

 

 

A ' . the horrible torture of help-
“u , ' less creatures and 'put a stop *
Lander; - 0°“le YWW'WMW-
= - .' “M1 ‘N MPLS-
‘ . . i ' ' DEAR TAMI: A Ereat
ideal of ropaganda accompanied by heartbreaking p, oto-

{graphs as ignited a campaign to halt the alleged cruelty
-, to animals in research laboratories. But before you get out.

:your crying towels (and; checkbooks), folks, here are the ~

, facts:
1

, Sonwimal lovers have-gone'so‘fal’Fasﬂtosuggest that

prisoners and elderly patients be used instead of animals.
Add to that bizarre notion the fact that lit million dogs
and cats were destroyed in shelters last year because no
'one wanted them. Yet thousands of well-heeled organiza«
tions are .trying to stop the use of animals in medical

MOUIW‘S'EPTFQWTWM

but night} read an -
article that made me
cry. [t described the motile?

 

research laboratories. I ask you. does this make sense?

i

g " Animals housed in universities, medical schools, hospi~
tais and research centers are monitored by the US.
;Department of Agriculture. Periodic surprise inspection

- gvisits are conducted under the-Animal Welfare Act. The
'National Institutes of Health has standards governing
gsuch experimentation for all scientists who receive NIH
funds. Animals’ quarters. must meet space specifications,
ibe air-conditioned and kept clean. Potentially painful

. :experimants must be done under anesthesia, -' . .. ,

Animal experimentation made it possible to lmmunize
imillions of children all over ’ the world against polio,
idiphtheria, mumps, measles, hepatitis. etc. Add to that
ilist every person who receives an antibiotic to ﬁght
ginfection, insulin for diabetes, anti~inflammatory agents
:for arthritis, chemotherapy for Cancer. medication to
fcontrol hypertension and drugs for the treatment of
ijmental illness. Every person who has undergone the'
9 replacement of a joint, or the reattachment of a severed
finger or limb. kidney dialysis, heart surgery or organ
transplant owes a debt to’ animal experimentation.

g

* Pet lovers should be aware that the progress made in
.;veterinary medicine is due largely to experiments on
,animals. °

1 There has been a decline of approximately 50 percent
in the use of animals for laboratory testing since 1968 due
.to the development of highly sophisticated test'tube
:techniques, but experiments involving the heart and the
brain cannot be performed in test tubes. They must be
conducted with live tissue. '- .

No person in his right mind wants to see an animal
suffer, but until the day comes when all medical problems
are solved we must experiment with animals. So let’s hear
it for the dogs that went to Harvard. They may well have

' made a more meaningful contribution to humanity than
some people we know. ‘ ’

What kind 0/ wedding goes with today’s new lilcstyles?
'Does anything go? Ann Landcrs' "New Bride's Guide"
tells what’s right for today's weddings. For a copy, send
your request and $2 plus a long, self-addressed, stamped
envcivpe- 137. seats. postage) to 4'1." . Maker’s. .301. 1L995.
Chicago 60611. ‘ - ."_._.. ““‘r

M~a~~w*--lew~ -..Q... en‘s-u *un... .1.- . -_ _.---.~“--. ‘

 

 

m WE’uMJ ' «at. a scale. a“...

 

 

 




January 3, 1994

Mr. P.R. Gaine

Japan Animal Welfare Society
No. 5 Tanizawa Builéinq
l~38, Moto Azabu 3~chome,
Minato~ku, Tokyo

JAPAN

Dear Mr. Gaine,

Thanks for sending me a copy of the Ann Leaders column that
appeared in Tokyo. There‘s no end to her circulation. I non‘t
know whether you saw the column which precedes this one, so I
enclose mailing we sent out to about 809 newspapers.

The column you enclose was written after a board member of the
Funﬁ for Animals gd’an appointment for their midwest representative
to talk with nnn Lenders (Eppie Lederer in private life) to try to
correct the serious errors in her first column. She refused to
talk with him about laboratory animals or to listen to anything on
that subject. Thus the switch to boner items.

I have since talked to her personally and she aﬂmits that there
are many things wrong in laboratories. I seriously doubt however
that she will ever admit it in print, as she appears to be a mouth~
piece for ﬁarvard Medical School. It is shocking how little reqarﬁ
there is for the truth inthhtt aughst institution.

I thought you might want to have this backgonund in case you
conduct any further corresponéence with her. She told me my letter
to her (which she never answered till after I got thronghtto her
secretary via a mutual friend) was the only sensible letter she
received on the subject. of course, she did not reaﬁ them all.
Thane was a massive response to her fease assertions. It is sad
that a person with a large audience fails to run corrections of

heir own distortions. It is extremely damaging to the welfare
of experimental animéas and to animals generally.

Best wishes for the new Year.

Sincerely,

Christine Stevens
Secretarv

 




“0’d1 .

..,,. a
I '7 Q " WC m‘W‘IR r- ,.- ‘ ;}}‘.‘ '93:“ M?» I "'2‘” 1;:
. I a ' '1 ..

s ~ . -. .-
a . ..- ~., I
I ‘ n. . .

a, recording

{d ‘i between '
seious w'ork- A
\g sets and.

1s a costume
of space for
which have

rarate locker
1r men and
as for relaxa-
s. natural-light

med inside—f
Center, and

go up on the

the veranda '

diningroom

dancer Osa-
it felt-strange
started using
because they
much small.
racticing. He

while to get '

other Shiki
.sll of praises

:ilities availa-'.

on is.~ on the
a 35-minute

uya Station, '

s a five-min-
he station.

a
S
4
I.
A
'—

l

\
-O
AA‘AAAAA‘AA‘A-A‘AA‘L‘

. 1 .
A AA “A -A‘ AA AA -- -- A AA -“ .A- A

1
.A- AAA A AA _- _A -‘A

-
..__: ,
.\ .

.

',’

021:; ritz- gftp..:'..-

51%“:4, 7&10 ‘1}:

 

31‘ ,

‘ ii
if
g;

’ it
1?
1i

i
i
i
i
i
i
s
i
i
i
i
P.
f.

VT'T'W'VVWW

wvvvv'v vvvwvvv
. - ~ 0

or
y
u ' ' ’

vvvvvv'vv'vvvv "T'w'v’vvvw‘v

llllllllllllllllllllllllIlllllllllllllllllh

3“-

. I. '- iii-ﬂ; :51'1'
Dear Ann Lenders: ,5» '
Congratulations for having the courage

t0 support animal experimentation on .

"behalf of medical research. This hot potato
has been ducked by the best of them.
My two Scotties have brought me more

pleasure (and less trouble) than my Children, ‘ '
yet I realize that the scientists who pic--

neered the breakthroughs in medical
research could not have done so without

using animals. The "best example is Paul
Erlich, who discovered the ’cure for syphilis -

while experimenting with apes.
quoted Dr. Neal Miller, former president of
made a point worth repeating. Dr. Miller

we don’t have the right to exploit animals
forgresearch to reiieve human suffering, we
certainly have no right to exploit animals
as pets, nor-do we have the right toeat
meat, eggs, drink milk, wear leather shoes

we- hunt or ﬁsh.” .
As a mother whose sons were protected
against polio by Jonas Salk’s vaccine, I

the wrath of a multitude of readers who
must have laid it on you, but g00d.—
Mexico, Mo., Reader -

Dear Mex:

anti-vivisectionists and animal welfare
groups, but I also received a great many
letters of praise from the country’s most
distinguished physicians and scientists.

How I wish the screamers would save .

their pipes to shout about the real atrocities
-for example, clubbing to death 200, 000
baby seals 1 year for no earthly reason ex-

Ehe real cruelty to animals f .’ «

Bayard Webster of The New York Times ,
the American Psychological Assn” who ‘

said, “If, as the anti-vivisectionists claim, ‘

or furs, sleep on down pillows, nor should ’_

want to thank you for being willing to face ‘

True, I did get some nasty letters from

x: aIIllIllIllllllllllUlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllIllllllllllllllﬂllllllllﬂllllllllllllllllllllﬂllllllﬂ

.'
'/

, A 'gicept selling their skim. Another barbaric,
enterpme: dogﬁghting, which is illegal 1n .

all of the 50 states. Unless you have

- witnessed trained pit-bulls tearing one '

another. to hits you cannot imagine the
brutality. These fights areusually scheduled

\ at dawn, in a hidden meadow. Incredible '
sums of money change hands while specta-
tors place their bets and cheer for Ithei .'

favorites.

- Dog-racing“ 13 another enormous money-~
maker. Training greyhounds consists of re- '
,"leasing a live rabbit; The‘ dog chases‘the
rabbit, catches it and rips it to shreds. ' .
(This creates a taste for blood.) More -'
than 50 percent of ithei’gfeyhounds born' ~

each year are killed’by‘ trainers because

they are injured or can was fast enough to '

qualify for the races. (Trainers don’t wish

to feed losers) So much farther :‘sport'of--_ .

queens.”

A Irespectfullysuggestthatthosewho”
- love their pets stop spending millions of

dollars on ads and mass mailings m an at-
tempt to eliminate medical research on

, animals. Send your money, instead, to
your local Humane Society andthe Fund' .
for Animals, Inc., 140 W. 57th St., New '

York, N.Y. 10010 (Attention Leslie

Zegart). Request that your. dollars be spent .
-- to spay and neuter animals so 13 million

’
51‘».

“§'

‘.

will not be killed every year became -

nobody wants them. ‘

- I implore my readers not to hamper om"
scientists in their efforts to unlock the
mysteries of organ tranSplantation, joint

replacement, heart surgery and drugs to
cure cancer and diabetes. That dog in the

. laboratory may well be man's best friend,

in the most noble sense of the word.
(Copyries: Field Emmi-as. Inc.)

 

 

 

 

"i ”33:3 ﬂag?”
. g ’

 




 

. P. R. Gaine.,c/o, . ' V'h
‘ 'é'ﬁ‘iaﬁitwi‘mmm _
‘ -'SHADAN Hole NIPPON DOBUTSU FUKUSHI KYOKAI

No.5 Tonizowo Building, (JAPAN ANIMAL WELFARE SOCIETY)’ lﬁﬂﬁﬁiﬁﬂiﬁa TB 1 i389 '
1.38. Mote Azobu 3-chome, . . a 5 1m sip-r4 ‘x we was

Minute-kn, Tokyo. . _ p . . . 1 ‘ ﬂ. 1431
Control P.O. Box 1481. TokYO. . ‘ " J A w s ' - I _ ****“.ﬂ .l

 

M/s Ann Landers, . '3 - December 18th. 1983.
c/o, The Asahi Evening News, ~ . .. .
Tsukiji 7-chomeK

Tokyo 104.

 

Dear M/s Landers,

As one of the Founders of the above Society (some 30 years
ago), I write to thank you for publishing the article
entitled "The real cruelty to animals" which was publihed

in the Tokyo paper, The Asahi Evening News, on December 15th.

' Both the letter from.you correspondent in Mexico and and
your very sensible reply "hit the nail" right on the head!

We have never been an "anti-vivisection" Society because
we realise the inestimable benefits that have accrued to
mankind through MEDICAL research on animals. However I 4
-‘ thought you might be interestd in some of the objectives
we fight for and are still fighting for: .

 

w". ”I“ .— -‘ t
. . .

‘n‘
Q

1. EXperiments on animals should be for medical reaearch
‘ only. Using live animals to test cosmetics, detergents
. and the like is revolting and should be controlled

by law.

2. EXperiments must be conducted without pain oz~discomfort ‘
, of any kind.

3. The animals used must be prOperly (& cleanly) housed,
properly fed & watered and looked after with kindness
and compassion and not subjected to stress.

“ugyﬁﬁgassamwnwpswa A

r”. '.
l—"~,;£ﬁ’

‘ , ’ . - . a‘ ' - -
' ~ ‘ ‘ ‘h o ‘ -. o - .. I
a- “A a» ‘w. ”'43! -—— ’ g .A .. A~_

.
3
v'
f
t
E
g 7

'. - .—<
- \ .3

- 3 _ V
-- .ru --__...‘.-....

-We have had cases of animals Operated on without an anaesthetic,
.of detergehts drOpped into Rabbit's eyes and chimpanzees

kept in cages for years that were so Small the animals
- could not stand up and they finally went mad!

Finally, how right you are about promoting sterilization
for dogs and cats: over 800,000. 'unwanted" animals are . .
destroyed every year in Japan: the only answer is education
(of the owners) and sterilization campaigns. We do our

' best. That's "AnimaI Welfare"!!

.1 I . (’4 (£146! CUT/(WV) ‘ . ' - - Sin ﬁgﬁi ‘Q;
i H!” ”(a/(77.44, .’ /SM) ‘ . _ Po Roi ine/
1 AP /an®é£€ ~ 07n””¢ : - ‘

L Mrs a 8731/0445. “(ML 0"—

 




 

l   Reply to Ann Landers’ column
‘ on animal experimentation

To The Denver Post:

Erroneous statements in two recent col—
umns by Ann Landers may mislead readers
as to the law on animal. experimentation.

On Sept. 12, Ms. Landers stated, “Poten-
tially painful experiments must be done un-
der anesthesia.” .

Fact: No law, either federal or local. re-
quires anesthesia if the experimenter or
laboratory worker decides not to give it.
{Rabbits scream in agony when subjected to
the Draize eye irritation test, but no law
can force test labs to dull the pain.

Ms. Landers says that “thousands of
well-heeled organizations are trying to stop
the use of animals in medical research lab»
oratories.”

- Fact: Anti-vivisection societies do exist,
but they are small in number, with perhaps
fOur or five which could be honestly char-
acterized as “well-heeled." By contrast
there are hundreds of animal protective or-
ganizations seeking not to stop the use but
to end the severe abuse, the neglect and
the use of excessive numbers of laboratory

animals.

Ms. Landers accuses “animal lovers" of .
suggesting the “bizarre notion” of experi- ,
menting on “prisoners and elderly pa- 7
'tients” instead of animals. ‘

Fact: Animal protective groups far from
wanting to substitute people'for experiment _
tal animals are working instead to substi- -
tute tissue cultures, bacteria and comput-

jers where practicable.

Ms. Landers’ Oct. 31 followup column
tells pet owners to “stop spending millions
of dollars on ads and mass mailings in an
attempt to eliminate medical research on
animals.” ,

Fact: No sums remotely approaching a
million dollars are being spent for this pur-
pose. Even the anti-vivisection societies
are spending a substantial proportion of
their funds on grants to scientists in medi-
cal schools to develop practical substitutes
for laboratory animals in painful. tests. ,

CHRISTINE STEVENS, Secretary

Societylfor Animal Protection Legislation

‘ Washington, DC.

 

 




December 1, 1983

Mr. Donalo Seawall
The Denver Post
651 _ 15th Street
Denver, Colorado

Dear Eon:

I don't know whether I have you to thank for the fact
that The Benvor Post printed my letter to the editor
on ﬁovembor 12th. In any case, I am most grateful
because tho Ann Lanocrs columns which it sought to
correct are a very deleterioug to the aﬁvanconent of
laboratory animal welfare.

Encloseo is a brief article that E wrote for The erando
Sentinel in case one of your eoitorial writers might

 

take an interest in giving editorial support to tho Dole
bill. A copy of the list of comsponsors (thoso checked)
is enclosed also for your interest. This is a bill that
ought to be passoa.

Kindest rogarﬁs,

Sincerely,

Christine Stevens
ﬂecrotary

nglh

Enclosure

 




The Denver Post Saturday, Nev. 12, 1983

Open Forum

 

 

Reply to Ann Landers’ column
on animal experimentation

To The Denver Post: animals .
Erroneous statements in tWO recent COl Ms Landers accuses “animal lovers” of;

umns by Ann Landers may mislead readers suggesting the “bizarre 11011011" of experi

as to the law on animal experimentation. mentmg on “prisoners and elderly pa-
On Sept 12, MS. Landers stated “Poten tients” instead of 3111111315

tially painful experiments must be done un Fact: Animal protective groups far from

der anesthesm.” wanting to substitute people for experimen- 1
Fact :‘ No law, either federal or local, re- 1,31 3111111313 are working instead to substi- .

quires anesthesia it the experimenter or tute tissue cultures,- bacteria and comput- -
laboratory worker decides not to give it. erg where practicable.

- Rabbits scream in agony when subjected to Ms. Landers’ Oct. 31 followup column

the Draize eye irritation test, but no law tells pet owners to “stop spending millions
can force test labs to dull the pain. of dollars on ads and mass mailings in an

MS- Lander 5 says that “thousands 0t attempt to eliminate medical research on
well-heeled organizations are trying to stop 3111111315,"

the use of animals in medical research lab— Fact: No sums remotely approaching a
oratories.” _ million dollars are being spent for this pur-
. Fact: Anti-vivisection societies do ex1st, pose. Even the ‘anti-vivisection societies
bUt they are small in number, With perhaps are spending a substantial proportion of
four 01‘ five which ,COUId be honestly char ' their funds on grants to scientists in medi-
acterized as “well-heeled.” BY contrast cal schools to develop practical substitutes
there are hundreds of animal protective or- for laboratory 3111111315 111 painful tests
garlizations seeking not to 8M) the use but ' CHRISTINE STEVENS Secretary

to end. the SBVBI‘C abuse, the neglect and Society for Animal Protection Legislation
the use of excessive numbers of laboratory Washington D C

 

 




December 1, 1983

Mr. Stephen M. Mason
325 Beechwood Lane
Berwyn, Pennsylvania 19312

Dear Mr. Mason:

Enclosed is a copy of the letter we received from,
the Raleigh ﬁews and Observer.

Since you are such a splenﬂid'letter~writer, it
occurreﬁ to me that you might wish to write about

the Ann Lenders column to which Katharine Teahan refers
in her rejection of the encloseﬂ material which we Sent
out to 800 newspapers. The Denver Post printeé it,

ané some columnists used it, so it was worthwhile
sending. I note that you are not in North Carolina

at the moment, but I am sure that woulﬁ make no
difference.

I appreciate your letter to The Philadelphia Inquirer;
All good Wishes,

Sincerely,

Christine Stevens
Secretary

CS:lh

Enclosure

 




%¢éw/¢é{wv
M.ﬂ>.—74Wz4/7%M%“’Zv
ﬂa/«Z. .72 64/ M ﬂown}
M .W )ﬂa WW%7,§
74 WA; ﬁzz/r7 24c

 




 




Opponents of DiviseCtLOn should protest real atrocitLes Lnstead

Dear Ann Landers: Congratula- .
tions for having the courage to sup-4

port animal experimentation on be-
half of medical research. This hot
potato has been ducked by the best of
them.

, My two Scotties have brought me
more pleasure (and less trouble)
-than my children, yet I realize that
“the scientists who pioneered the
breakthroughs in medical research

could not have done so without us '

ing animals. The best example is
Paul ‘Erlich, who discovered the cure
f r- syphilis while experimenting
with apes.

" ‘ Webster of the New York

 

 

By ANN LANDERS

 

 

Times quoted Dr. Neal Miller, former

president of the American Psycho-

logical Association, who made a
point ‘worth repeating. Miller said,
“,If as the anti vivisectionists claim,

we don’t have the right to exploit
~ ”“1173 for research tn rplipvn bu

A

man suffering, We certainly have no
right to exploit animals as pets, nor
do we have the right to eat meat,
eggs, drink milk, wear leather shoes

or furs, sleep on down pillows, nor ‘

shouldwe hunt or fish.”
As a mother whose sons, were pro-

tected against polio by Jonas Salk’s /

vaccine, I want to thank you for
being willing to face the wrath of a
multitude of, readers who must have
laid it on you, but good. -- Mexico,
Mo., Reader

Dear Mex: True, I did get some
nasty letters from anti-vivisection-
ists and animal welfare groups, but I

1 also received a great many letters 1*?

I

praise from the country’s most dis-
tinguished physicians and scientists.

How I wish the screamers would
save their pipes to shout about the

real atrocities -— for example, clubf

bing to death 200,000 baby sealsa .
year for no earthly reason except
selling their skins. Another barbaric
enterprise: dog fighting, which is il-
legal in 111150 states. Unless you have
witnessed trained pit-bulls tearing
one another to bits, you cannot imag-
ine the brutality. These fights are
usually scheduled at dawn, in a hid-
den meadow. Incredible sums of
money change hands while specta-
:3r1 place their bets and cheer 1‘31:

( .

their favorites.

/ Dog racing is another enormous‘

,x’moneymaker. Training greyhounds

medical research on animals. Send ‘

your money, instead, to your local

humane society and to the Fund for

consists of releasing a live rabbit. \ Animals Inc” 4140 W 57th St., New
The dog chases the rabbit, catches it ,1 York NY 10010 (Attention Leslie“

cent of the greyhounds born each
year are killed by trainers because
they are injured or can’t run fastf
enough to qualify for the races!
(Trainers don’t wish to feed losers.
So much for the “sport of queens.”
I respectfully suggest that those

who love their pets stop spending/

millions of dollars on ads and ma
mailings in an attempt to elir..1: -11 1

14'

~ and rips it to shreds. (This creates a f Zegart) Request that your (1011613 be
otaSte for blood.) More than 50 per-

spent to spay and neuter animals s6“
13 million will not be killed every
year becauSe nobody Wants them

I implore my readers not to ham
per our scientists in their efforts $0...
unlock the mysteries 0f organ trans.
plantation, joint replacement, heart
surgery and drugs to cure cancer
and diabetes That dog in the labora-
tory may well be man’s best friend,
in the most noble sense of the .1 0rd

3

E'

4..l

WM

 




(”mulm: .S'c'plvm/wr I

 

2. I WIS!

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

 

 

  

THE WASHINGTON POST i

 

 

 

N g;,.,: “ﬁr 3:33;- T - , ‘1‘”,- '51-. ff». ,9, ._ ‘ ”v.1”? p; a); '3?!” v i
if" ' .. "T r 3.. “ i ‘t' Q ' 3,, ' _~ . , ‘1 a” w"; a" ~ * ‘ ~35.

:2 ’ A E

ﬁear Ann Landers: mals quarters must .meet space ll:
Last night-I read an article that speciﬁcations, be air-conditioned and
dc .me" cry. Itdescribed the mu- kept clean. Potentially painfulexper-

tion-of, animals in laboratories for

. purpose of medical research. It

.. about how animals were poi-
ﬁned, blinded by acids, subjected to
Sspeated electrical shock, disembo-
led and had their spinal cords cut.
.You would do a tremendous ser-

‘ vice if you exposed the horrible tor-
ture of helpless creatures and put a
stop to it. I beg you to act ontthis.~"—'
Tami In Mpls. ‘
Dear Tami:

MA great deal of propaganda, ac-
companied byfheartbreaking photo-

raphs, has ignited a campaign to
galt the alleged cruelty to animals in
research laboratories. But before you
get out your crying ‘towels (and
Checkbooks), folks,. here are the
facts: ‘
l .

2 "Some animal lovers
Ear as tosuggest that
lderly patients be used instead of
hnimals. Add to that bizarre notion
the fact that 13 million dogs and
bats were destroyed in shelters last
year because no one wanted them.
{Yet thousands of well-heeled organ-
}zations are trying to stOp the use of
pnimals in medical research labora-
Fdries. I ask you, does this make
pense?

{ "Animals housed in universities,
,‘medical schools, hospitals and re-

lsearch centers are monitored by the\

{US Department of , Agriculture. Pe-
iodic surprise inspection visits are

iconducted under the Animal Welfare

iAct. The National lnstitutes of

Health have standards governing

{such experimentation for all scien-

gtists who receive NIH funds. Ani-

have gone so
prisoners and

 

imen
sia. .

Animal experimentation made it
possible to immunize millions of
children 'all over the world. against
polio, diphtheria, mumps, ‘measles,
hepatitis and other diseases. ’Add to

. that list every person who receives

an antibiotic to fight infection, in-
SUlin for diabetes, anti~inflammatory
agents for arthritis, chemotherapy
for cancer, medication to control hy-
pertension and drugs for the treat-
ment of mental illness. Every person
who has undergone the replacement
of a joint, or the. reattachment of a
severed finger or limb, kidney dial-
ysis, heart surgery or organ trans
plantation owes a debt to {animal
experimentation.
' Pet lovers should be aware that
the progress made in veterinary
medicine is due largely to experi-
ments .on animals. »
There has been a decline of ap-
proximately 50 percent in the use of
animals for laboratory testing since

1968‘ due to the development of
highly sophisticated test-tube 7» tech-
niques, but experimentsl‘involving
the heart and the brain cannot be
performed in test tubes. They must
be conducted with live tissue.

1 No person in his right mind wants
to see an animal suffer, but until the
day comes when all medical prob-
lems-are solved we must experiment
with animals. So let‘s hear it for the

ogs that went to Harvard. They
may well have made a more mean-
ingful contribution to humanity than

‘ 1963. Held Enterprises Inc

 

ts must be done under anesthe- -

-- MvN-V—u-‘o-

 

~.~.- ., «
.--hn...—a«_u—..W~

- - ._.........._....-——...—.- .“.-

 

some people we know. ,

 

 

 

 

 

 




SOCIETY FOR ANIMAL PROTECTIVE LEGISLATION
P. O. Box 3719
Georgetown Station
Washington, DC 20007
(202) 337-2334

September 19, 1983

Ann Landers

Chicago Sun Times
Daily News Building
401 N. Wabash Avenue
Chicago, IL 60611

Dear Ann Landers,

A few months ago, we talked about the bill introduced by
Senator Dole to improve standards for laboratory animals and mini—
mize their pain and distress, and I was very grateful for the concern

you expressed.

I was sorry to see in your September 12th column signs of the
hand—out being distributed by a group opposed to this much—needed
legislation who are trying to keep the old—fashioned pro— and anti—
vivisection argument going in order to cloud the real issue: needless
pain and suffering inflicted on test animals. -

 

The Association of Professors of Medicine are deliberately
misleading people with a number of their claims. First, the confu—
sion they seek to create about human experimentation. If they wish
to discuss the use of prisoners and patients as experimental subjects
they ought to admit that it took a long, hard fight to establish
the Institutional Review Boards which now protect institutionalized
human beings and children from overzealous medical and psychological
researchers. Many horrible examples had to be publicized to get the
necessary action to prevent government funds from being awarded to
scientists who conducted cruel and dangerous experiments on human
subjects. You characterized human experimentation as "bizarre," but
a great deal of experimentation continues to be carried out on
people. NIH estimates their grants are 25% for human experimentation.
'It isn't people who are worried about animals who are experimenting
on other people. Quite the contrary, it is scientists who oppose
reasonable efforts to protect experimental animals who also do

human experiments.

The second point in your column/”thousands of well—heeled organi—
zations are trying to stop the use of animals in medical research
laboratories" isssimply non—factual. Anti—vivisection societies do
exist, and a handful of them could be accurately described as "well—
heeled". But it's interesting to note how they're spending their
money these days. Large sums are being donated by these organiza—
tions to medical schools ﬁn develop alternatives to laboratory
animals so that, especially in toxicological tests where massive
numbers of animals are used, non-animal methods can be substituted.

 




Projects funded by anti—vivisection societies and cosmetic manu—
facturers are being carried out at the Johns Hopkins University,
University of Pennsylvania, Tufts, and Rockefeller University.

Third, it is not true that i‘potentially painful experiments
must be done under anesthesia." There is no federal or state law
or guideline to require this. Massive animal suffering, both in—
tense and long drawn out is taking place in U.S. laboratories every
day of the year. Much of this pain is unnecessary. It goes on
because moderate, sound legislation such as the Dole bill is opposed
by groups who do no hesitate to give false information to the press.

A\majprropponenttofShumane legislation is the Association for
Biomedical Research founded by the world's biggest animal dealer
and breeder, Charles River Laboratories, a multimillion dollar
multinational whose profits depend on using the maximum numbers of
laboratory animals. They're the ones who recently threw off an
estimated one thousand scientific experiments by selling the re—
searchers (mostly cancer researchers) mice that were not of the.
pure genetic strain required for the scientists' work. A woman
scientist at the University of Wisconsin is suing Charles River,
and the University is preparing a second law suit. I mention this
to show you the nature of the vested-interesteopposition that
attempts to get decent treatment of experimental animals runs into.

You are correct in saying that the Department of Agriculture
inspects research facilities and that the National Institutes of
Health has standards for grantees, but you'll remember, too, that
Dr. Edward Taub had to be brought to court by the State of Maryland.
NIH had given him grants amounting to about 2 million dollars over
the years and had received complaints about his laboratory but did
nothing till the scandal occurred.

I hope you'll write a follow«up column, not to stop animal
experimentation, but to stop mistreatment of animals in this huge
industry. The United States uses more animals than any other country
in the world. It's up to us to see that they are treated properly
and used only when scientifically necessary.

Sincerely,

(25.97:; 54;.

Christine Stevens
Secretary

 




in?

75 ﬁg 3 do
{A Nxﬁ 2, ”kW/xv 7..» Dj
, 3V3 ”(433 (LS

 




_________,_________._._———--——---

Reply to Ann Landers - *’ " ' ' M ,/

Animal

To the Editor: »

 

 

 

experiments not needed a

humanity. Millions of animals cally excluded from the act. Th3 .

. animals in laboratories are legal- ,1.

A,

i

.1?
i7. essary experiments that are not
i

s,

1“

I reply to Ann Landers’ mis-
leading column of Sept. 12, “The

issue of medical research on ani-
mals is not a simple one.” Her

naive remarks trivialize the con. *
cerns shared , by millions of.»
Americans, including the many, .
scientists who 'would disagree

with the point of View she ex-~

pressed.

Ignoring moral issues, Ms.

Landers attempts to persuade her ’

readerS‘that all research is for .
‘. ten up in

the benefit .of humans, and'that

ly protected. Both claims are
false. '

I suggest that MsLanders re-
view a few medical journals rath~
er than rely on the propaganda,
of the biomedical research estab-k

lishment. The fact is that most of -
the animals that are “sacrificed”

as “tools” of research are utilized
in trivial, redundant and unnec-E‘?’

directly related to the health of ,

re are killed for non-essential, com—
mercial purposes.

Through grants that are fund.-
ed by ' the taxpayers, animals

have been blinded,” §§3193¢ bat- ‘
teredwmgiven"lejlje’ct'riCal shocks in 1

*psychOlogiCal research, addicted =
.to, drugs, etc. —- all for the sup-
posed benefit of humans. Proce- ..
dures are sometimes designed;
solely for the purpose of obtain-T}
ing grants or academic advance- f
ment; many are never even writ»:
journals. Pressures to
or perish” have also

“publish
generated a wave of fraudulent

research.
The federal Animal Welfare -

Act sets standards for the hous-
ing, handling and transportation

of some animals used in re-

search. If a researcher decides to
withhold anesthetics, he merely

has to‘ state that it is necessary to

keep from marring test results.
Rats, mice, farm "animals and
cold-blooded animals are specifi-

act is also, poorly enforced. .. ‘.

"”"fmln commenting on utilizing
dogs and. cats in research, Ms.
. Landers states that 13 million an-

imals are destroyed in shelters
each year. ’All animals, even
those destined for euthanization,
have basic rights, including the
right not to suffer. The anthropo-
centric notion that the lives of
animals are worthless if they are
not sacrificed for the supposed
benefit of humanity is outra-
geous.

.Finally, Ms. Landers has the.
ludicrous notion that those who
favor animal rights would prefer
that humans be used inexperi~
ments. Most animal rights activ-
ists are also advoCates’ of human
rights, who, encourage the devel-
opment of a reverence for all life.
Alternatives to animal ”testing

. can. and must be developed.

MICHAEL D. WARE
American Anti-Vivisection
C , Society
~Jenkintown. .

 




$29 Barbara St,

Miss Ruth M. Laverty
Bethpege, L. L, 1 V ‘11}

1:.) r
N} k

' "11111 1':

l
J

«i.
"L’N" 'g .1 a? '2 't ##1-
me 0.1.10 .3- 11,): .

.“
1CD

11111111 63

"N 1. .sz
{16: 1 ..

:11d

,1-
L1 .

3'
L

r‘.
A-

e

I;

C

Q
m.

1.13. \1

v7 u
I}
I'

r“? .
.i. ..

'58

I

:1: 11-; d

.15

1‘, ‘
: ‘
c

L

1’1 :1

1".
.0» A
K1,...

”/3

S

COlu

If

11’]:

7.
b4:

1")
v

J

o :1

\th

1' \
1'...)

m, I, . .11.
\

r’ ‘: l
J .a'. A n.4,.

f.
»

34.1.1! ,..‘
I 41;. L!

”

 




ﬁeptemﬁer 30, 1933

ARR LANﬂEﬁS
R31 Yaur'anawar ta @ami in M§la $9 the
gafferxng 0f labaratary aszﬁia

1% 13 aurpriaing t0 read ﬁueh,a aallous anawer ta ﬂami'a
lettar. Anﬁwwla in laba'gg guffﬁr. ﬂaw mbmut tha Draiza

teat? Any exyarimantatian an any living'ﬁh&mg-aauaea pain»

If thay waralalwaya ana$thatizea, it waula hazy, but ﬁow do ’
wa know thgy are? Are all lab attendanta earing and aympathetia?
Ybu say: “Kara are tha fasta” m-faeta fram*wham??? Aa far the
mmnitcring by inapacterai All funﬁa far all thaaeldapartmamva
have bewx eat #9 ﬁha bane; mhe inapeetara hava bean cut ﬂown.
what can a raw inapaatara d9 with.myria&a af laba to examina?
Sineaywu aaknawleéga th@re ara heartbreaking_§hetcgrapha.

whawe do ywu aapyaae thay get theae phmtoa?

Alaa, you quickly changed the aubjeat t0 that cf the pcpulatian
amplﬁeian in aaimala, and the maﬁa ta 'ut tham tn aleep. 353,
but why mat aévwaata altering af anf‘ wa. what wauld Rely
tramgndaualyg ana.yﬁur ewluma gaea ta ﬁ$35 peaple. However,
that was not tha aubjaat ef ﬁwwi'ﬁ lettar.

A ehilﬁ’a suffaring. I an aura, wnula bring cut all ypuw
elaquanae. an animml,auffara along.

ﬁBOﬁSED XE REV YUﬁK

 




{FQRAYOUR INFO —

WANTED TO MAKE SURE YOU WERE AWARE OF THIS. I'VE WRITTEN MY
OWN LETTER TO LANDERS, BUT AM SURE YOU COULD DO A BETTER JOB.
THIS IS REALLY GOING TO HURT US *- UNFORTUNATELY, THERE IS A

SEGMENT OF THE POPULATION THAT" BELIEVES WHAT THIS WOMAN SAYS.

THANKS 3

:.RY WHITE

’ §
,_ A _ « , -‘ 4,-“
, J 3 .
1 «VJ ' 5“me
»

/

gas are
fmais in

J‘-

rm
1‘“

Ed.
,1. My, ,

1;? 1

r»
W 'i ‘ ml

._;' A

('1‘:

; ’1 ‘ I
«I ,. 1.4;.sz

378 f 39'
Eegtiag
: §a§e§ﬁpr
1'5 ‘35"

W .
m ‘. ,_

75 .r ‘
V”, W
N". 7
W2

' , um"
um .
A 3 w. m

[w
Mr

». » P ‘-

~ 0&1. '-
{A

(“a

Kass. '-
2“? w
12’»

M
(’0
‘ g;
-' ,‘ I
”mu ,
l‘ .

Pu '

1 (T
w"

% n
L?

0‘ l

M’
A
K, A;

 

 

m 3M if m
4 m '1

' 53152:? '

t C . Q .
.;__;2 tr; i:7"t$‘§1,{?¥'§t'?;l '*
9 -~ ;"..« V .«v ' r, h -_ »- ...~,.:., .g .. ~_‘ .L- . '

 

(“M Ki:

# ‘ ‘ w-
413”!

it

‘ w W ‘
,
‘ -:

VJ :11!“ V, 1“."

1“ “(as ;

My“

exganmmt 2»? .

hear it {0? $3526 (3”

Rmrard. They ‘

maﬁa a same ragfg} Cirysiribw

O
n:

, 322::- athar apy

' ~ Raﬁ-rm t9 egatrol

#9136" M-{i‘
k vl’

.‘ ‘24”! "

”k. p.
mfare

. ‘ég‘arels “ " " ‘ 5‘

52’: £30 036

dmgs far the
iiimss. Every
9.5ng the res

$5011 ta: “buggy than same yieﬁpie'
35.8 knew. -- . ' '

 

,,_._.,,_ YUM" ‘Amw-_~W~.

 




 
 
   
  
  
  
      

6 up 2,

J4.) 6 \. /C :L/ 1N \7 A 2 \ 17.76 mu 7. 77/0/71... 7776./// 270Lmdnd. “/6
. z/ a / . 1.... .
.6.

7M7... 7671)....) p.67 7 m w 707» €777»)?
3772 .77: 64.6 .17 7 27a 6.7m. .67. d7 ,.

J»..76 ad ad, CA7 7.777 76/067,736 07%6 79m.)
.7777». 772 7927. 2777, 7 Mm my 61% 777%.? 77.67%

C

#7970/QN .7737); C a.

L

 




(DRS. HGKKSKT (DGSTON Q%/2/Z’ /3/ f“?

904 NORTH 7TH STK€€T, BEATRICE, NSBKASKA 68310

{dz/m @WZW/ WFA ,m

56mm
i0 WWW M M

d (”/7 ”@AQLW/ m Marya:

@ngﬁg WW / AW M

ﬂ MW 775% amwmm 6/9sz
OZZQé/DW de 7%; 7 17.1%me
"wt/M1; WW ”VA/Wt [$an 436/ ,/%o
WA! A?“ 7% [4/6 g / awe. 1/ ﬂi @724. up -
MM /55 aﬂ/QCz/W %ZM igfy/um .

 




39%ﬂ9 M W I) .)
ﬂ/VLA/ W/ Mﬂéu
é/mT/z KW?

€24 WW

 




 
 
   

W/ (fa/jg? Y}

Dear QYWMCU (ﬁe/(9mm )ns-zLﬁ—l-pck)

  
  
   
  
   
  
   
   
 
   
   
   
 
  

p‘we (AFC/‘36.. 0L“ VYLQJm 130:3;

Oanll SLL porkrs +0 WM‘R.

S+P0ha / _ao+oca,( /€‘H-€0"S o? (€195de(
4—4: "(4/fo {Eggs/1+ Pr0~ V‘I‘W‘gecjﬂ‘on
CON/Lyvtn by TV) [ICU/loam, Obi/(\ﬂlAS/Y/
W13, Lat/Loud? Somme; a? E‘s/“023‘

[/OQN \CmLSed reseawCh2r5, many op

NV“ Sﬂkmm+5 are. mFS )ﬁadthg I
"CULKSe or based Om hear-rsou/t

LU£ Wted 46: born ban/r1 Mr WIS-FA

kgHers pmvfnj amma/ rte—srarcé

{5 0m umaensary evf/ x‘n ouf~
Sagfe‘Py; SN can be barf-«High 340

C/a Dca/ fapers W7‘ CdF/“X ﬂaw
CO/Lme/l, Ezéw‘c Wm bar‘s“ (1:2ch gr
aﬂwsseg ﬂa56,,,we need ﬂex/7416;»:

5L0 g/LOQJ A1!“ (206 ache S‘J‘Lmnﬂ/ We,

Aw“) #L 1:001‘5/ 0&1de we M/V/ ﬂa7L

[6+ Am" o/IS Cred/(7” M3 ’/ W5/
”74%: @u/ha
ﬂex ﬁlmm/ ,8 ‘ #5 a; 45.5%,,
5/0 @(7/679/ Eds/Mon-Hn 74"“
I Saw @méo ) C74 994%

 

 
       




    

so; \0’

D-lf THE SETRIBUNE

_ Animal issue has two Sides

 

We: r7

“Hmca my

W32? .73
/?

I

{my 9:9,.

 

EAR ANN LANDERS: Last night I read an article
that made me cry. It described the mutilation of
animals in laboratories for the purpose of medical
research. It told about how animals were poisoned, blinded
by acids, subjected to repeated electrical shock, disem-
boweled and their spinal cords cut. .
You would do a tremendous service if you exposed the
horrible torture of helpless creatures and put a st0p to it. I

beg you to act on this. ,
:s ' —nmmmn

 

Dear Tami: A great deal of propaganda, accompanied
by heartbreaking photographs, has ignited a campaign to
halt the alleged cruelty to animals in research laborator-
ies.; But before you get out your crying towels (and check-
books) folks, here are the facts: '

Some animal lovers have gone so far as to suggest that
prisoners and elderly patients be used instead of animals.
Add to that bizarre notion the fact that 13 million dogs and
cats were destroyed in shelters last year because no one
wanted them. Yet thousands of well-heeled organizations
arei‘. trying to stop the use of animals in medical research
labbratories. I ask you, does this make sense?’

Animals housed in universities, medical schools; hospi-
talst and research centers are monitored by the US. De-
partment of Agriculture. Periodic surprise inspection vis-
its are conducted under the Animal Welfare Act.

‘ The National Institutes of Health have standards gov-
erning such experimentation for all scientists who receive
NIH funds. Animals’ quarters must meet space specifica5
tions, be air-conditioned and kept clean. Potentially pain-
ful experiments must be done under anesthesia.

Animal experimentation made it possible to immunize
millions of children, all over the world, against polio, di-
phtheria, mumps, measles, hepatitis, etc.

Add to that list every person who receives an antibiotic
to fight infection, insulin for diabetes, anti-inflammatory
agents for arthritis, chemotherapy for cancer, medication
to control hypertension and drugs for the treatment of

. ‘mental illness-Every person who has undergone the re-

placement of a joint, or the reattachment of a severed
finger or limb,_kidney dialysis, heart surgery or organ
transplantation owes a debt to animal experimentation.

Bet lovers should be aware that the progress made in
veterinary medicine is due largely to experiments on ani-
mals.

There has been a decline of approximately 50 percent in
theiuse of animals for laboratory testing since 1968 due to
the development of highly sophisticated test-tube tech-
niques, but experiments involving the heart and the brain
cannot be performed in test tubes. They must be conducted
with live tissue.

Novperson in his right mind wants to see an animal
suffer, but until the day comes when all medical problems
are: solved, we must experiment with animals. So let’s hear
it for‘the dogs that went to Harvard. They may well have
made- a more meaningful contribution to humanity than

\ ;\< Uk H’ ”a some people we know.

 

Dear Ann Landers: Regarding the person who wanted to
know if cold water boils faster than hot water and if hot
water freezes faster than cold, you said you believe in

going to the top and contacted Dr. Jerome Weisner, chan-

cellor of Massachusetts Institute of Technology.

 

r—‘ﬂ——_——_"
I
I
I

Dr. Weisner said a problem of such extraordinary di-

San Diego, Monday, September 12, 1983 ,

 

. ANN idf.
LANDERS

r

1

 

 

 

I

mensions should be handled by ain expert, so he tuned the
letter over to the dean of sciencx a, John W, Deutc (Deutch
said either statement was true...)

though Dr. Deutch gave; the correct swer, that
:is called argumentiveé by authorit and has ab-
solutely 0 place in science. f .

ble to come to the 1.;ne concl ion by using a
pan of hot water, a thermomer, a sto e, a refrigerator
and a watchwith a second hand. . ' .

You, Ann anders, exemplify 'iwha is wrong with our
society. Too ny bozos are too to find the answers
for themselves." t is easier to ca! 11 an “authority,” How
much more sati ying to rely on tpe. intelligence,

‘ —— ’iel Reliant In Riverside

 
 
 

. /

Dear SelfnRelian When a re daer ass such a ques ion, I
am not about to te him to o {a ho he experime t, nor
would i do one myse -. I ass c you the Dr. Dent didn’t
boil any water, eithe’ He KNEW? the a swer —- which is
the beauty of having a at '-ry of top conultan .

6 _ ‘\ . ' \

Dear Ann Landers: " husban? and I .. e oth 28. We
are professional pe0p1:', aving ‘ﬂOTke‘i ham and long to
obtain our credentials Ou careers are f1 . ishing. Prob-

/-ak

:

lem: We want a fam'y (t" . children), by t net right now.

How about some gu'tance? , .
‘ Iylliams‘ own, Mass.

 

Dear A and : According o D ‘. Ernest nook, Who
wrote on this bject for the o [ al of the merican
Medical Assoc’ tion, both wome. .nd men reac r the peak
of their fertili y at about age 25.,

When the «oman is 35, chan‘e of producing ‘ defec—
tive child ar 5 for every 1,00' bi ths. If ‘she wai 5 until
she is 45, th risk jumps to 50 mar 1,00 births.

The mos prevalent birth et‘ect a-uong babiesbbrn to
older wouen is Down’s sydrome. hese children are
mentally etarded with a ifc expect.ncy much shorter
than that (if normal childr it. You now 8- . ve the facts. The
decision 5 up to you. ’ ‘ . .

What kind 0f WGddiﬂ. 49093 with today’jnew lifestyles:
Does anything go? Ann anders’ “New Bri ‘ ’s Guide”te11.s
What’s right for today weddings. For a cap r, send $2 am:
a Iong, self-addresse stamped en veIOpe (37 c~ nts postage
to Ann Lenders, P. I. Box 11995, Chicago 60611. You car;
write Ann Landers in care of The Tribune, PO. Box 191.
San Diego 92112. "

Copyright FieId Enterprises Inc.

 




3“}
‘9 f‘g

Mfs. Edward P Williams
Crosstrees Hill Road, Essex, Conn. 06426

.5 V {I \V 1 :7) MW” 1",. 5 ‘
9% {Eat Cﬂi G’Maé Cdﬁ/f) mm Dix/V? 2414:1197 (3
”'7

. g? (j‘ if. q f”,? 5? ‘vgf r-, /a a ,) C ‘éﬂlm~ 2::é2;L)*<L-~m.
.3 i
‘ ..~’

L,
5 5? ﬁt}? ‘ ( ﬁ 3 ;; p (P
M“ L,“-*z,\_.1 “if (”kg J 1‘

*4.»

.,- 3‘ ~ -\ [if ’

j {3" 1”“”§§;i "‘ >~ ; C3 V€;%ijj(\3 ~\<:£§/Ljné£v¢ fix”)
,- ﬁw W“”"“ _=
« 7,1“ij i 16W

. a {if } (r’wﬂ. ;; ”I g;
; “‘1 P A 5 . r N . I,
” g: M J Lula}. {HI-£3) .{&h ,i- ”ﬂ ." ﬂ ('4! (‘

.2"
7..

Fir/”L; {1/

35W (ft—“J Iii-g "'

, V ‘>‘~

/'

 




 

 




«egg 2
at??? @616 .
(bit 989?
up
iékogbybpégou‘
b5

$5 226/ FE???
gpL .
gorgé Egg $3.,
Wm SEQ}?
ybpbbu g
035%:

L2,». , gig .
E , ($62651 .
'
Mtg :ﬁé.§0\ﬁ§.v Cb

yak/”MW,

. . WW???
b .
f??? _

 

 




 

 




,% 1,0 aux/HEEL

Fr? «kg/@0529. @wrupcf
gt? 3 v Eww ,e

No. Gav wrmo

EPmbﬂz/mwoivgh. W000;

W396 gv

, xv {063: Or gnaw OE: WAVE”.

5%? 03 MD: (\wL/oaww. 948%

2592;. ,7 who? +06%? g E;

E :66 ﬁche Org/E 5.68%»

25%? E?ékcb€g§.z
xvggéﬁnpogp 908¢0®$€
EE/y gigcig;
bgéégé Egé
.gic. #:596

 

 

 

 

 

 




 




Soc. £04 Animaé
P.0. Box 3779.
Qeongetown r
waéhi ‘

.e'encZOAed ag.pon424 to my uaaioui pieai

!

mm i/zeatment /a/ze, a in: 02d, 1 i/zoug/zi I'd

them aéong anyway.

€xpeci mane Aoon. Have Ziaed oﬂﬂ many ZeiiQAA

in my niied Aiaie aﬂiea aeadiny Ann Landeaaldamag—

ing, pao—uiviéection ﬂatten!
7hank you.

Sinceaeiy
///{/;=’7/ lab/L.

Mimi Lind

OZympia,

 




‘

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA SYSTEMWIDE ADMINISTRATION

 

 

BERKELEY - DAVIS - IRVINE - LOS ANGELES - RIVERSIDE - SAN DIEGO - SAN FRANCISCO . :1§- Cr. SANTA BARBARA - SANTA CRUZ

 

 

Office of the President
BERKELEY, CALIFORNIA 94720

June 24, 1983

Ms. Mimi Lind
2212 9th Avenue West 3A
Olympia, Washington 98502

Dear Ms. Lind:

This will acknowledge your communication about certain research
being conducted at our San Francisco campus. Because such
matters are under the jurisdiction of the campus, I have taken
the liberty of sending a copy of your communication to Chancellor
Julius Krevans who has also received many letters about this
matter.

We appreciate knowing of your concern that the highest standards
of humane care and treatment of animals are provided in research.

Sincerely,

w (L...

David S. Saxon
President

cc: Chancellor Krevans

 




 




 

 

 




.. - LuPine Inn
WWI; P.O.BoxB

;, Red Lodge, Montana 59068
“Wtisfsgmyrh (406) 446-1321

 




Q

 

. A! ‘I’n‘.’(’u‘ ‘0’ ’
'L‘s.'u'm\l".‘ .15..-

GI'III’

.“-0
tl. /

3%

 




ACTION ﬁr INC.

Rt. 2, Bo x151/Ber rryvie,“ Va. 22611
T l phon 2-703 955 1278

3”?

ﬂ ﬂaw
JQM/gJZﬂM-B

”Ma/‘70 WM—

 




 




Sara M. Dowd
214 Mulberry Street, #ZE
New York, New York 10012

wacj)

are mg a Whﬂﬁ
(32(me
3WD} PM

 




v V ?" 77"“? WV '7' w w ‘7" y—vvv 7"1'v— vy—u-vv 7" 7‘ v— V" r’r'" '7" 7" r‘ 7—» 'VV ~v- w" v” V'“ "V ur— v vv iv ~ """_ w - V7 r * v-v -— ,---, ,7 w- 17w ﬁ~v~-

 
 
   
 
 

  

 

 

 

 

B14 .. . ’i 1 . ° (
I """l’W' Dm’mhvr 13. 108:: THE AWASHINGTON POST 5 s s I L l k %é£§ if
f h . ‘ ‘ , get my boy out of the wheelchair and

back on his feet again. Itvwould be like

,, Allnlmlt‘llﬂ n,,,,11,naom,, ,zmma ,1 191 ID ,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,




Good Shepherd Bulletin

Ever since columnist Ann Landers printed
her impassioned defense of vivisection, I
have been deluged with requests to answer
her outrageous and deceptive article. But
before I could do so, TANJA KEOGH, Vice—
President of GOOD SHEPHERD FOUNDATION
had already tackled the matter. I feel she
has done a masterful job on the subject. See
Nif you don't agree.

\\ Rosalie Gordon, President

 

 

 

 

Dear ‘ZAnri Landers, 2

32% ‘22 ,5
Your rehf‘c'entkletter ealing with animal experimentation has been brought to my
attention, an‘d\ eel compelled to respond and refute the arguments advanced

in your extremely misleading article.

Perhaps the best way to begin would be to ask you some additional questions
and hope for a response from the heart as well as a clearer understanding of
the facts.

You state that 13 million dogs and cats were destroyed in shelters last year and
it makes no sense that these animals should not be used in medical research
laboratories. I ask you this: If your girl pet, a beloved member of your
family, capable of all the love and feeling you yourself possess were to somehow
stray from home, would it not ease your mind to think that if s/he did not

find his/ her way into another loving home that s/ he would be humanely and pain-
lessly euthanized rather than ending up as a laboratory animal statistic in one

of the millions of brutal experiments performed yearly in this country?

Your response might well be - ”No need to worry; animals' quarters are healthy,
pleasant places and any potentially painful experiments must be done under
anesthesia. Besides, any sacrifice is not too great if it will benefit mankind."

I contend that these are all blatant LIES and nothing but propaganda, which only
simple-minded dupes can swallow.

These well cared for, healthy environments have regularly and systematically

been found to be unclean, overly crowded, and the animal victims most often in
shockingly unhealthy conditions. The inspections you mentioned are too few and
too lax to be at all meaningful. Only when outside organizations become involved
do any half-hearted corrections take place. As for prosecutions, it never happens.

In 1981 at the Institute of Behavioral Research,officials found the animals "with

open sores, gnawed off fingers and broken bones, eating contaminated food, living
in feces-encrusted cages with broken wires protruding inward, and wearing rotting
bandages.” In another recent case, a Siberian Husky somehow escaped the
Stanford Medical Research facility and was found in a state of shock with numerous
infected wounds over its body, dehydrated, filthy and half starved. These are not
isolated incidents but just a tip of the iceberg and routine findings in research labs.

"No matter," you say, "a little suffering is of no consequence in important exper-
iments and at least the animals are given anesthesia during any painful experiments.'
More lies and more propaganda.

Consider this...If there were no pain or suffering involved, then why the numerous
restraining devices you will find routinely in all laboratories? An anesthetized
animal doesn't struggle, doesn't cry out or try to escape. Then why immobilize
them? Why keep them in devices that put Spanish Inquisition racks to shame--

for days, often weeks on end?

The hideous Draize Test, performed hundreds of thousands of times a day on
immobile rabbits (used because their eyes don't tear to flush out an irritant)

 




 
 

 

   
 
 

 

 

 

 

    

     
  
 

 

is never done under anesthesia. A witness to these tests, Which introduces all
types of chemicals in the rabbits' eyes, actually heard the rabbits scream in pain.

When the LD-5O (Lethal Dose) tests are done, also routinely on hundreds of
thousands of animals yearly, are these animals anesthetized? The medical
journals say no, Hthe degree of suffering or pain cannot always be determined in
advance.H Every new product that is released onto the market must first be
tested on numerous animals to determine just how poisonous it is. So every new
shampoo, deodorant, bleach, nail polish, cleaning fluid, anti-freeze, bubble bath,
hair spray, room freshener, zipper lubricant, etc., etc., etc., must first poison
to death a large group of animals before we consumers are given the opportunity
to consume. Don't we already have enough of these products? Who benefits from
their introduction except the companies that hope to make a profit from their new
gimmicks?

The variety of forms of suffering that may be inflicted on animals in the name of
”medical research” is virtually endless. "Ah, but," you say, "we do benefit
from this suffering so it is not in vain."

Who are the individuals that are benefiting from these experiments? None other
than the research centers and researchers, to the tune of over $4 Billion annually!
According to Alan D. DOWd, Ph.D., ”...a significant portion of animal research is
conducted for no weightier reason than to satisfy the curiosity of the experimentors
or his/her desire to publish.” And according to Roger Caras, a journalist and
naturalist who has witnessed first hand typical research procedures in dozens of
experiments: "Eighty percent of all experiments have nothing to do with humans.
They're merely for fun and fortune of the researchers.H And — a recent American
Medical Association report admitted that ”...much of the research done today is
repetitious and unnecessary.H H. F. Harlow, the Editor of the Journal of
Comparative and Physiological Psychology for 12 years, a Journal that publishes
more reports of painful experiments on animals than almost any other, reports

that "most experiments are not worth doing and the data attained are not worth
publishing. "

But what about all those heart patients, transplant patients, etc., who owe their
lives to animal experimentation, you ask? First, I must ask-~if animal experi-
mentation has contributed so much to humanity, why then have the death rates and
incidence of disease in this country gone steadily up almost in direct proportion
to the amounts of money and animals' lives expended in medical research? Why
does this country rate 16th in the world for infant mortality and longevity when we
are by far Number One in terms of expenditures on medical research, modern
laboratories, and health care facilities? The official statistics verify that these
vast expenditures for research, especially in the areas of cancer, heart disease,
strokes and diabetes have actually saved very few, if any, lives. Many medical
breakthroughs, i. e., heart, kidney and other transplants, I contend do not in
reality prolong life--for most individuals they merely prolong death.

As you mentioned, there are new test tube techniques as well as computers now
capable of electronically analyzing and predicting drug toxicity, chemical reactions,
bodily functions, etc. in a fraction of the time, and without the suffering and
sacrifice of innocent beings who never harmed anyone. These techniques could
almost entirely take over the archaic, unproductive and immoral methods of
research in use today if: (D the researchers could renounce the millions of
dollars in profits derived from animal research and (2) if the public outcry
against these atrocities became large enough and powerful enough to be heard

loud and clear. Yes, then We Will move into a new era Where all life is held

in reverence and awe; when all creatures will live in peace.

 

_ Sincerely and Humanely yours,
To Our Northern California Members: '

Please note that we have moved our "Save—a-Pet” g/My Jﬂj

THRIFT SHOP to larger quarters. New address: Tanja Keogh

Vice President

GOOD SHEPHERD FOUNDATION. Inc.

Remember: All donations, including merchandise PO. BOX 727
are TAX—DEDU CTIBLE POWAY, CALIFORNIA 92064

1072 E. Main St., Grass Valley, Calif. 95945

 




r"
k..-—

/

‘ ma-‘rwewrrzmerr 2.1357“: -.--

r‘”u&~"¥3’39~ﬁ new. ‘ '. 391%‘611‘331 19%!(‘5-‘35 ”we THEE: .

”Refuges on the Rocks" is the title of
an excellent, in—depth article about
the US. National Wildlife Refuge Sys-
tem in the July 1983 issue ofAudubon
magazine. The 32,000-word report
explains how the 90 million acres sup-
posedly set aside for wildlife have
been taken over by hunting, trapping,
mining and other commercial inter-

ests. Even the US. Fish and Wildlife -

Service admits that more than half of
the refuges are plagued with erosion,
water problems, air pollution, indus—
trial development and other problems.
And now the Reagan administration
proposes further encroachments
rather than protections. WILDLIFE
ACTIVISTS, get a copy of this report
for your group 5 edification. Single
copy, $3.00. Audubon, 950 Third
Avenue, New York, NY 10022

\
\

.1 Ann Landers, syndicated advice col-

umnist, put forth a zealous, absolutist
defense of animal experimentation in
one of her September columns. In
writing about what she called “the
alleged cruelty to animals in research
laboratories,” she recited most of the

familiar points about how we all owe i

oUr good health to animal experi-
ments. “Until the day when all medical
problems are solved,” she wrote, “we
must experiment with animals.” Lan-
ders made no mention of the great
numbers of pointless, wasteful and
stupid uses of animals in military and
psychological research, cosmetics test-
ing, products development, and other
areas. Write her in‘care of your local
paper and give her the whole story.

"Birds in Hand" in the October issue
of Animals magazine is an excellent
report on the devastating traffic in
tropical birds. Up to 90 percent of
these birds die on the route to retail
outlets. Animals magazine is published
by the Massachusetts S.P.C.A., 350
South Huntington Ave., Boston, MA
02130. Single copy, $1.75. 7

The 27th World Vegetarian Congress
is set for July 30 through August 9,
1984 at the University of Maryland
Baltimore County. Register now to
ensure accommodations. Contact:

North American Vegetarian Society,
PO. Box 72, Dolgeville, NY 13329.

AGENDA

E‘VM'Ibngmtuxm nave-'23» 2.. L‘. Lsihlﬁm:—EM?§ - . 5

'ﬁ \ "In

‘ i}.
’r

a a"?

Animal Rights -- News and Views, a
publication of the Association of Vet—
erinarians for Animal Rights, provides
a sounding board for veterinarians
and others interested in animal rights
issues. AVAR is active within the vet—
erinary community in advancing ani—
mal rights ideas. For further infor-
mation, contact: AVAR, 530 East
Putnam Avenue, Greenwich, CT
06830.

Sea Shepherd Log keeps you infor-
med on the campaigns of the Sea
Shepherd Society. The group needs
funds to keep the ship active, they
also need funds for the legal defense

' of crew members arrested last spring

for interferring with the Canadian seal
hunt. Help them out. Sea Shepherd
Society, PO. Box 48446, Vancouver,
BC, Canada V7X 1A2.

A protest and boycott of photographic

film manufacturers is being organ--

ized to pressure them to seek alter-
natives to gelatin, a product of animal
slaughter. Write to Debra Safran, 671
Brentwood NE, Warren, Ohio 44484
for more information.

arm: >.“.J'!W~.. 1.592251”: #343; 3075.537?" . ETC-’5‘ m'ii‘fJ":7"WX‘I'%‘?WWT" 113.} I ’.- .QLYT-

nun-s 5% ~19

4.12)}..‘41"

Primarily Primates, Inc. provides pro-
tection and sanctuary to primates used
in research, rejected by zoos or other—
wise cast out or condemned to death.
The group needs help in providing
safe, natural habitat enclosures for
these animals. PO. Box 15306, San
Antonio, TX 72812.

Animal Care Matters, a publication
of the US. Department of Agricule
ture’s Animal and Plant Health
Inspection Service, reports that agen-
cy’s activities toward enforcement of
the Animal Welfare Act and related
laws. To get on the list, send your
organization’s name and address to
USDA, APHIS, Veterinary Services,
Animal Care Programs, 703 Federal
Center Building, Hyattsville, MD
20782.

USDA's Annual Report on Animal
Welfare Enforcement is for sale to the
public for the first time. The 16-page
report costs $7 on paper (Code A-02)
and $4 on microfiche (Code A—01).
Contact: National Technical Informa-
tion Service, 5285 Port Royal Road,

‘ Springfield, VA 22161 and ask for

PB 83-205898.

WE'RE MAKING A DIFFERENCE!
Pet owners are a vast majority in this country. Until now they have been unaware oi the
gravity and magnitude of the attrocities perpetrated upon animals in oursociety. PetLovers
Gazette is the only pet publication to incorporate animal rights issues into its monthly
features The average' 'pet owner is becoming more active in the animal rights movement
. because he is being kept informed of. the major issues
WHY DO 100. 000 PET OWNERS HEAD PET LOVERS' GAZETTE?
o For its quality coverage of all news pertaining to CANINE & FELINE HEALTH with special
emphasis on RESEARCH HEALTH BEHAVIOR 8. PSYCHOLOGY.

0 MONTHLY COLUMNISTS INCLUDE. ROGER CARAS, DR. MICHAEL FOX CAROLE LEA
BENJAMIN, MDRDECAI SIEGAL DR STEPHEN KRITSICK, DR. WM SULLIVAN AND LOTS

MORE!

PET LOVERS' GAZETTE 15 not myopic in scope but IS dedicated to the health and welfare of not

only pets but 01 all animals

SUBSCRIBE TODAY!

' CI Please enter my subscription tor one year, 12 issues for $10.00

Name

 

Address

 

City

State

 

Enclosed is my check -

 

MasterCard ii

 

 

Visaii

Exp. Date

 

 

Send To: PET LOVERS' GAZETTE

500 Cooper Ctr. West, Pennsauken, NJ. 08109

November/ December 1 9 8 3

 




SETHLEHEM, Pit
iii. @BEﬁ‘tMES
a Wage

V M 1081

BURRELLE’S

, ANIMAL EXPERIMENTS
To the Editor:

Erroneous statements in two recent;
columns by Ann Landers may mislead.
people in your city as to the provisions
of the law on animal experimentation.

On September 12th, Ms. Landers
stated, “Potentially painful experi-.
ments must be done under
anesthesia.”

Fact: No law, either federal or local,
requires anesthesia if the experi-
menter or laboratory worker decides
not to give it. Rabbits scream in agony
when subjected to the Draize eye irri-
tation test, but no law can force test
labs to dull the pain.

Ms. Landers says “thousands of
well- heeled organizations are trying .
to stop the use of animals in medical
research laboratories.”

Fact: Antivivisection societies do
exist, but they are small in number,
with perhaps four or five which could
be hOnestly characterized as “well-
heeled”. By contrast there are hun-
dreds of animal protective organiza-
tions seeking not to stop the use but to,
end the severe abuses, the neglect,
and the use of excessive numbers of
laboratory animals.

Ms. Landers accuses “animal lov-
ers” of suggesting the “bizarre no»
tion” of experimenting on “prisoners
- and elderly patients” instead of ani-
mals.

Fact: Animal protective groups, far
from wanting to substitute people for
experimental animals, are working
instead to substitute tissue cultures,
' bacteria and computers where practi-
cable. Approximately 25 percent of
National Institutes of Health funds are
disbursed to scientists to conduct
human experimentation.

FOrtunately, after a hard fight'to
protect children, old people and pris-
oners from overzealous experi-
menters, a system of Institutional Re-
view Boards has been established to
control experiments on people. Re—
’ member the prisoners from which ef-
fective treatment for syphilis was
withheld? That was before the IRBs
were created.

Animals in laboratories need help,
tOO, and S 657 introduced by Senator
Robert Dole and 23 co-sponsors pro-
vides a rational means of doing so,
developed by animal welfare and sci-
entific groups.

Ms. Landers’ Oct. 31 follow-up col-
umn tells pet owners to “stop spending
millions of dollars on ads and mass
. mailings in an attempt to eliminate
medical research on animals.”

Facts: N o sums remotely approach-
ing a million dollars are being spent
for this purpose. Even the anti-viv-
isection societies are spending a sub-
stantial portion of their funds on
grants to scientists in medical schools
to develop practical substitutes for
laboratory animals in painful tests.

For information on existing laws re—
ulating animal experimentation and
a summary of attempts that are being
made to substitute non-sentient forms
of life for animals in experiments, you
may wish to request two authoritative
books which we will send you free of
charge.

“Alternatives to Pain in Experi-
ments on Animals” by Dr. Dallas
Pratt and “Physical and Mental Suf-
fering of Experimental Animals” by
Jeff Diner with a foreward by Dr.
Samuel Peacock are available from
the Soceity for Animal Protective Leg-
islation, PO Box 3719, Georgetown Sta-
tion, Washington D. C., 20007. i.

Christine Stevens
Secretary
Washington

 




5044521519

 
  

To The Denver Post:

Erroneous statements in two recent col-
umns by Ann Lapders may mislead readers
as to the law on animal experimentation

On Sept. 12 Ms. Landers stated ‘Poten-~
tially painful experiments must be done un-
der anesthesia.”

Fact: No law, either federal or local. re-
quires anesthesia if the experimenter or
laboratory worker decides not to give it.
Rabbits scream in agony when subjected to
the Draize eye irritation test, but no law
can force test labs to dull the pain

Ms. Landers says that “thousands of
well- heeled organizations are trving to stop
the use of animals in meflical research lab-
oratories.”

P act: Anti-vivisect1o1i societies do exist
but they are small in 11 mber, with perhaps
four or five which co (1 be honestly char-
acterized as “well eled. ” By contrast
there are hundreds 0 animal protective or
ganizations seeking at to stop the use but
to end the severe use, the neglect and
the use of excessiv numbers of laboratory

  
  
    
 
  
  
  
  
  
 
   
  
 
  
  
    
   

    
 
  
   
 

 

   

33...!“

Reply to Ann Landers’ columii
on animal experimentation

animals. ~

Ms. Landers accuses “animal lovers” of
suggesting the “bizarre notion” of experi- .
menting on “prisoners and elderly pa—
tients” instead of animals.

Fact: Animal protective groups far from
wanting to substitute people for experimen—
tal animals are working instead to substi-
tute tissue cultures, bacteria and comput-
ers where practicable.

Ms. Landers’ Oct 31 follow up column
tells pet owners to “stop spending millions
of dollars on ads and mass mailings 111 an
attempt to eliminate medical research on
animals.”

Fact: No sums remotely approaching a
million dollars are being spent for this pur-
pose. Even the anti~vivisection societies
are spending a substantial proportion of
their funds on grants to scientists in medi-
cal schools to develop practical substitutes
for laboratory animals in painful tests.

, CHRISTINE STEVENS, Secretary

Society for Animal Protection Legislation

Washington, D.(L‘.

  




BURRELLE’S

Regarding Ann Lander 5 comment on
animals in research (Sept 1983) ,Miss
Landers is either totally uninformed or
misinformed if she really believes that
experimental animals are all
anaesthetised against pain and suffer—
ing.

1 would suggest that she read “Pain-
ful Experiments on Animals” by Dallas
Pratt, MD. (graduate of Y ale Univer-
sity and Columbia’s College of Physi-
cians and Surgeons); “Victims of
Science” by Dr Richard R} der (senior
psychologist at Warneford Hospital
Oxford) and‘ Slaughter of the Inno—
cent ’ by Hans Ruesch (Swiss jour-
nalist).

Films taken in different laboratories
in the USA. and Canada show the hor—
rible conditions in which the lab
animals often are being held. ,

a pity Miss Landers could not have

COLUMNEST URGED...

A roll am mials

     
 

 

attended the talk giv en by former L.-.S
Air Force researcher Dr Richard
Barnes at Rochester University, where
gruesome slides were shown of military
tests conducted on animals.

Men, who were themselves ex-
perimenters in the past have made a
186 degree turnabout and now take an
active stand against their former cruel
metier after realizing the
senselessness, needlessness and of
course. cruelty which there is in
Animal Experimentation.

There are no laws in North America
to protect animals from the infliction of
pain in experiments. Miss Landers

should investigate this aspect heioie
exposing the bpublic to her lack of
knovi ledge on this subject

ElizabethJ. Kipling

42 Forest Road

   

 
 




SOCIETY FOR ANIMAL PROTECTIVE LEGISLATION
PO. Box 3719, Washington, 0.0. 20007

Avenue

\rg, MD 21632

\
“ .
, 0%
=-

 




WALNUT CREEK, CA

“ta "11MEs
‘§§§ﬁ§£§~smi

NW 7" 1983

BURRELLE’S

Gar
Bogue

 

 

 

Settmg Ann stra1ght

Mt. Diablo isn ’t a volcano but yesterday mom~
ing, at precisely 6: 32 a. m., it erupted across the sky
in the most joyous display of dawning pvrotechnics
I’ve seen in years!

But don’ t just take my word for it. Join me in a
cup of coffee tomorrow and watch.

1:] E] El
Dear Gary,

Erroneous statements in two recent columns by
Ann Landers may mislead people as to the provi~
sions of the law on animal expel imentation

On September 12, Ms. Landers stated, “Potentiah
ly painful experiments must be done under anesthe~
51a.’

FACT: No law, either federal or local, requires
anesthesia if the experimenter decides not to give it
Rabbits scream in agony when subjected to the
Draize eye irritation test, but no law can force test
labs to dull the pain.

Ms. Landers says, “Thousands of well-heeled or»
ganizations are trying to stop the use of animals in
medical research laboratories.’

FACT. Antivivisection societies do exist, but they
are small in number, with perhaps four or five
which could be honestly characterized as “well-
heeled By contrast there are hundreds of animal
protective organizations seeking not to stop the use
but to end the severe abuses and the use of exces-
sive numbers of laboratory animals.

Ms. Landers accuses “animal lovers” of suggest-
ing the “bizarre notion” of experimenting on “pris-
oners and elderly patientS” instead of animals.

FACT: Animal protective groups so far from
wanting to substitute people for experimental ani~
mals, are working instead to substitute tissue cul
tures, bacteria and computers where practicable.
Approximately 25 percent of National Institutes of
Health funds are disbursed to scientists to conduct
human experimentation. Fortunately, after a hard
fight to protect children, old people and prisoners
from overzealous experimenters, a system of Insti-
tutional Review Boards has been established to con-
trol experiments on people

Animals in laboratories need help, too, and 8.675
introduced by Senator Robert Dole and 23 cospon-
sors provides a rationale means of doing so, devel-
oped by animal welfare and scientific groups.

Ms. Landers’ October 3lst follow-up column tells
pet owners to “stop spending millions of dollars on
ads and mass mailings in an attempt to eliminate
medical research on animals.”

FACT: No sums remotely approaching a million
dollars are being spent for this purpose. Even the
anti-vivisection societies are spending a Substantial
proportion of their funds on grants to scientists in
medical schools to develop practical substitutes for
laboratory animals in painful tests.

For information on existing laws regulating ani-
mal experimentation and a summary of attempts
that are being made to substitute non-sentient forms
of life for animals in experiments, your readers may
wish to read the following authoritative books:

“Alternatives to Pain in Experiments on Ani-
mals” by Dallas Pratt, M.D.; and “Physical and
Mental Suffering of Experimental Animals ” by Jeff
Diner, with a forward by Samuel Peacock, M.D.

Christine Stevens, Secretary,
Society For Animal Protective Le islation, ....
“ Washing 0.1,”.1'5'6”
Dear Christine, 1;

Myown mail has been filled with copies of Ann
Landers’ unguided safari into the jungles of animal
experimentation —- sent to me by outraged “animal
lovers.” From the first reading of her misinformed
comments to the last, it’s quite obvious that she has
lost her way.

Normally, I enjoy her columns and comments,
but in this case, at least, she has stumbled into areas
she’s apparently never been before and doesn’t know
what she’s talking about.

And that’s not being very fair to the millions of
readers who avidly follow, and believe, everything
she writes.

‘v-m-u- -~—-_ ‘

 




December 16,

MS. Ruby V. ﬁaylcck
2394 Sierra Court
Wale Alto; California 94303

Dear Ms. Haylock:

In resgomse t0 your letter of ﬁovember 6th, we sent you
a copy of my response to Ann Landers.

Unfartunately, she has written still another column,
and I hape that you may ﬁeciﬁe to write again.

YQur kinﬂ intarest is greatly appreciated.

Sincerely,

Christine Stevens
Secretary

 




 

 

, .
4. v -,
ﬁ/ 6
. x
. I
X
\e
.

 

society For ﬁnimal frotsctivs
ﬁasnington, D. C.

"1

MllOU Hum niLari o

h

1ssr 11am

I was very sorry to s9
Column. 1 am enclosing
0st widely r81

lstts

is ons of the
1 £631 that

unfortunan

Ins from

S.

ls
you

t
so
will

ms to

time, Just as
Lbs
thsn

appropriate

‘54

lkx GM"

5.)"), xx

to in
to

1 ho;

am wriLing ask

particularly at
ibis num-n114r1un work for
isl aL your fingertips,
the

so oeucrment1l to our

consids best for
iii

agre

11.5-1‘0 1313..

I am sure you will
1uthsntic 1s1e1 no 8
libO

"" I "" a L

dition of rstory 1nimils
sxnent,

6:]de rlv
Ann Ljndefq
thit

you.

a very unnscsss
I

1 write

br1'1‘2f.

voluminous.

5:111 «in WC 1119111

iii)
'J’

i 7
m .

lZO L113

30 I tr s:

1‘1 : , .. I y.
.1- kl-Iﬁi I} ix

3 copy 0

this re

ECU

to use in

.itn
€01

Lns mgr

Legislation

%/
i
l

s Lhis le tsI in a recent

Ann lsndsm://
Ann.&snosn¢
tins M11731.

1’31“}. 171 1L C ll .1. all if.“ .1.

HS you Enrobably know,

d newspaper columnists in

.ulsl? c.1ms 11 .1

Y

657 is being conpidsrsd in the HoniLo

in Lancers soon.
be

Eter, Column,
ll] J. :l l

in

4.,

send ms 1-1111 Lust

his 11m sincs you nave ossn

long, 1no have sxcsllsnn matsr—

pleﬁﬁﬁ send .haﬁ which you

drs letter
13b

8 that

W irom 1n my reply to this

or oratory 1n1n1 s.
excellent
that

11' /1n

’Lll 11186.3( \LIlL‘:

.1.

my ar;umsn1 to prove ﬁne

is deplorable, ho1n an:

ary.

busy scn1duls;

'v r,—

umn u s:,o1 no csisiiv

..

arlul you ssnd ms T111 not

5111101113é157,
Ruby V. HuylocK
2594 Disrra UL.
.3311) hlJX), Us.

“/11

9’4- ’13 I

’1‘}
.w/

a 1171 UT H2241 2% /Q
L 5/ '

 

 

 




 

 

Uninformed Ann Landers Stirs Controversy

On Sept. 12, 1983, Ann Landers’ syndicated
advice column which appears in hundreds of
daily newspapers throughout the country
discussed the use of animals in research. Un-
doubtedly, many of her readers were surprised
to learn that America’s self-styled “expert” on
love, marriage, divorce, weddings, fetishes and
etiquette has also become an expert on the
complicated issue of vivisection versus anti-
vivisection.

One should not be surprised however if one
recalls the numerous times Miss Landers has
relied on great medical authorities in white
coats to back up her own homespun advice.

In fact, upon closer examination, the Sept 12
column appears to be a rewrite, verbatim at
times, of a report prepared last March by Dr. A.
Clifford Barger, Professor of Physiology at Har-
vard Medical School.

Both Miss Landers’ column and Dr. Barger’s
report start out with the absurd statement that
those of us concerned with animals “have gone
so far to suggest” that prisoners and elderly pa-
tients be used instead of animals. It is a known
fact that medical researchers have in the past
used both prisoners and the elderly for their
research projects, not because “we” sug-
gested it, but because “they” wanted to do it.
And now they are clamoring to use aborted
fetuses and fetuses soon to be aborted as well.
Generally, those of us concerned with animal
life are concerned with all life and would never
make such inhumane suggestions.

The fact that millions of pet dogs and cats
are turned into animal shelters and pounds
each year and euthanized seems to be justifica-
tion, as far as Dear Ann and Dr. Barger are con-
cerned, for both pound seizure and the con-
tinued use of any animal in a laboratory. The
pet overpopulation problem is extremely
serious. Ann Landers could do more good if she
would use her influential column to encourage
people to be responsible pet owners. Instead,
she and Dr. Barger use this grave problem
to promote unlimited use of animals in
laboratories.

Miss Landers also climbed aboard the Clif-
ford Barger bandwagon by stating that
research institutions are carefully monitored by
the US. Department of Agriculture and that
periodic surprise inspections are conducted.
To further create the illusion that all is well in
the labs, Miss Landers mentioned that animal
quarters “must meet space specifications, be
air-conditioned and kept clean,” as Dr. Barger

November-December 1983

pointed out. What each failed to mention was
how infrequently these inspections take place,
how often violations are discovered, and how
minimum the housing and care standards really
are. To say that lab quarters must be air-
conditioned is certainly more glamorous than
mentioning how small Cages can be and how
seldom, if ever, the animals are let out to exer-
cise and relieve their isolation.

Perhaps the most damaging statement made
by Miss Landers, one that was an exact quote
from the Barger report, was: “Potentially pain-
ful experiments must be done under anes-
thesia.” Such misinformation serves only to
anesthetize the general public. Under the
federal Animal Welfare Act, researchers can
and often do withhold anesthesia if they
believe it will interfere with their experiments.
According to the US. Department of Agri-
culture, charged with enforcing the Act, 130,363
animals experienced pain and distress during
research or testing last year. This figure does
not include the rats, mice, birds, farm animals
and cold-blooded animals that are not covered
under the Act but which make up the greatest
number of laboratory animals. Clearly, poten-
tially painful experiments can be and are con-
ducted without anesthesia.

Both Miss Landers and Dr. Barger point out
that human and animal health have advanced
as a result of animal experimentation while ig-
noring the fact that most laboratory animals die
in non-essential research such as consumer
product testing using the Draize Eye and Skin
lrritancy Tests and the Lethal Dose 5O (LD50).
By ignoring this fact and by conveniently
forgetting about all the harm that misleading
animal experiments have caused for human be-
ings, Landers and Barger have created a 19th
century impression that can only serve to halt
advances that are being made in animal protec-
tion.

Miss Landers has done a great disservice to
her readers by allowing the Harvard Medical
School to prepare her column. Instead of look-
ing at the issue objectively and intelligently,
she has joined the defensive ranks of the multi-
billion dollar research industry which con-
sumes approximately 100 million animals each
yeah

In her closing remark, she states: “So let’s
hear it for the dogs that went to Harvard. They
may well have made a more meaningful con-
tribution to humanity than some people we
know.” Ann Landers, take note.

 




 

The Dog and The Star

 

HE was a small dog, of no particular
breed and not very handsome. He was
cold and his feet hurt him for he had
come a long way. His name was “Beat
It.” At least that was what everyone
said to him, because he did not belong
to anyone.

Except for a few weeks in the Spring,
when he lived with his mother in the
packaging box where he was born, he
had been alone. He missed his mother
at first, but as the problem of eating
and finding shelter became more dif-
ficult, he remembered her only in a
vague sort of way.

While wondering whether to look for
some food or to find a hole for the night
he heard two urchins talking about the
“Star.” They said that in a few days a
wonderful transformation would take
place so that each man would love his
neighbor and show a kindliness of
spirit that was hidden at other times.
There would be singing and a great giv-
ing of gifts, and the symbol of it would
be a “Star.” “Beat It” did not under-
stand quite what all this meant, but he
determined that he would try to find the
“Star” so that he could find happiness
too.

HE set out through the busy streets
keeping his eyes on the sky in case the
“Star” came out, and at last reached
the countryside. It was much more
pleasant there, especially in the eve-
ning when it became quiet, but still he
could not see a star much brighter than
the others, which would possibly be the
“Star.” At last he could go no further

for he had walked for miles in his .

search, and cold and weary he limped
towards a small house which had a
light burning brightly in one of the
windows.

He did not go to the house, having
learned that humans don’t always

8

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

welcome strange dogs, but he found a
shed near the house and dragging
himself into a corner, he fell asleep.

IN the pale cold dawning of a new day
he was awakened by the sound of sob-
bing. A little boy was filling a woodbox
from a pile of logs and sobbing into the
frosty air. “Beat It” had always fled
from humans, especially from small
boys who had a habit of throwing
stones which hurt. The sobbing worried

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Reverence For Life




 

 

him and instinctively he felt that here
was another creature in trouble and he
. got up and barked; that was all he could
do to show his sympathy.

The sobs broke off in a gasp, and
after a few minutes, during which they
eyed each other thoughtfully, the little
boy stretched out his hand and rested it
on the bedraggled head of the little
dog. It was the first time that “Beat lt”
had ever felt a caress. It was the first
time he had ever been touched with
tenderness and love. His tail wagged
wildly, his pink tongue darted over the
grubby hand, his heart was filled with a
burning joy, and with a spring, he
jumped into the boy’s young arms.

Two swift feet dashed through the
snow and carried dog and boy into the
little house. “Oh, Mother, Santa did
come — he didn’t forget me after all!
He brought me a dog, a dog with funny
ears and a long tail. Only Santa made a
mistake and left him in the shed in-
stead of the house.” The tired face of
the woman standing in the kitchen was
startled, then worried, and then it
softened. The boy was quick to note the
change. “I can keep him Mother, can’t
I? He won’t eat much — see how little
he is! And I’ll clean him up and brush
him, and we’ll have such good times
together, and he likes me Mother, look
how he tries to lick my face! I’ll call him
‘Merry’ because it’s such a merry
Christmas.” “I am afraid there will not
be much more than scraps for him” she
said with a prayer of thanks in her
heart, for a little boy saved from
Christmas heartbreak. “Looks awfully
tired to me,” she said, “and hungryw
too, no doubt. I’ll see what I can
find.” She disappeared through the
pantry door. The little dog put his
head on the boy’s knee and, gaz-
ingup into his eyes, “Merry” saw
the warm bright light of a Star. .

The Animals’ '
Crusader

illustrations by David Staaf

 

November-December 1983

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

Why I Believe Animal Experimentation Should be Stopped

Karen Ann Lesch has been awarded a first
prize in the NEAVS second annual Scholarship
Essay Contest, open to high school seniors
throughout the country.

Daughter of Robert and Evelyn Lesch of
Danvers, Massachusetts, Ms. Lesch is a recent
graduate of Danvers High School. Ms. Lesch
plans to attend Clark University and pursue
studies in psychology.

We adopted her when she was just six weeks
old and, with her endearing ways and un-
bounded affection, she quickly integrated
herself into the family. We fed her, took her to
the doctor’s, trained her in the proper toilet
habits, saw that she got plenty of fresh air and
exercise, disciplined her, played with her, and
gave her loving hugs and lots of praise; all the
things a family does to nurture a young life. We
watched her grow and discover the world. We
delighted in her rocking horse running motion
when she chased butterflies. Little by little, she
gained new independence, but always returned
to the security and warmth of the family circle.

When she was dangerously sick one time, my
mother took her temperature every day, gave
her medicine in an eye dropper, while we all
soothed her and begged her not to spit it out.
Her big eyes looked at us sadly, not
understanding her pain, pleading for help. I
would rub her paw, and she rested her head on
my hand. We prayed a lot that time and thanked
God together when she could again run and
play with us. The critical time made the bond
stronger, and we would nuzzle happily on the
couch at the end of each day, savoring her
return to health. After that, whenever one of us
was sick, she would not leave our side. We
know she remembered her own confinement
and realized how much it helped just to have
someone there.

Her birthday was always celebrated with
great festivities at our house, and none of us
kids were ever jealous of all the presents and
attention she received. She taught us new and
more unselfish ways to love. It was a great day
for her when she had the participation of the
entire family during the birthday games in her
honon

The day we last saw her was a snowy Easter
Sunday in late March. A young guest at our
house opened the front door to catch a falling
snowflake, and Paddles squeezed by, eager to
be free to chase the snowflakes herself. She
was quickly joined by a neighborhood friend,
Nebby the Basenji, a strong silent type who
lived down the hill, and the two of them pranced
off, leaping and rolling on the white blanket,
oblivious to our calls.

The snow grew thicker and quickly covered
their prints. We returned to the house, irritated

10

at her misbehavior and planning to chastise her
when she returned at supper time. She never
missed a meal with her family.

The snow had tapered off, and l was standing
at the window watching for Paddles when the
telephone rang. It was our neighbor who re-
ported that Nebby had returned looking be-
draggled and exhausted and covered with mud,
despite the snow-covered ground. His
wrinkled brow looked more worried than
usual, and he was alone. Our neighbor was con-
cerned that the two might have been at the
farmhouse. About two miles from our house,
beyond a muddy swamp, there was an aban-
doned farm where, it was rumored, the two
recluse brothers who inhabited it seized stray
dogs and sold them to laboratories for ex-
perimentation. Since it was the only place in
the area where mud could be found on such a
day, we visited the site, and our fears grew
stronger when we saw paw prints and boot
prints everywhere in the snow, along with what
appeared to be signs of skirmishes. The
brothers’ eyes shifted uneasily as they denied
any knowledge or sighting of our beloved pet.
They refused us entry into the shack, and since
there was no sounds to betray that any living
creature was being held against its will, we had
to reluctantly retreat. The police could offer us
no help without proof.

Our happy memories of Paddles are always
clouded with the mystery of her disappearance
and the uncertainty of what might have hap-
pened to her. I waken suddenly in the middle of
the night wondering if her once playful paws
are now required to labor unceasingly to the
point of bewildered collapse on a treadmill. ls
her sleek body painfully swollen with scien-
tifically induced tumors? Is the only human
touch she feels the pinch of two fingers as a
needle is injected? Are the only human voices
she hears counting the number of times she
has vomited after being fed a certain chemical?
Are her eyes vacant, hopeless, tinged with
distrust? Does she wonder if this is how un-
qualified love and loyalty are returned on this
planet. I do.

I know that it is possible that our Paddles has
escaped this fate, and I pray that this is so, but
through her loss I have also become aware that
millions of other animals have not escaped and
are now suffering unrelenting pain and cruelty.
Their bodies and spirits are being destroyed.
The innocent love and trust they have displayed
in the human race is being crushed and
rendered meaningless.

I believe live animal experimentation should
be stopped not only because of its capability of
destroying animals, but also because it can
destroy qualities that are fine and good in
human beings.

Reverence For Life

 

 

 




CONTEST THEME:

CONTEST DATES:
CONTEST PRIZES:

N

1984
SCHOLARSHIP
ESSAY CONTEST

Why I

beHeve

live animal experimentation

should be stopped.

March 5, 1984 through April 6, 1984
Five $500 (Five Hundred Dollars) FIRST*

Five $250 (Two Hundred Fifty Dollars) SECOND*

Five $100 (One Hundred Dollars) THIRD*
*Totaling $4,250 (Four Thousand Two Hundred Fifty Dollars)

in CASH SCHOLARSHIPS!

CONTEST RULES

. To enter, you must be a student enrolled in

your senior (twelfth) year of an accredited

high school or high school equivalency pro-

gram.

. You may submit one essay only.
.The essay must be at least 750, but not

more than 1,000 words in length.

.Your essay must be typewritten, double

spaced, on 81/2 ” x 11 ” white bond paper.

.You must submit the original and four

copies of the essay.

. Your essay must have been written after

September 5, 1983 and must not have been
entered, and will not be entered in any
similar contest.

. Include a title page, and a separate page on

which you have listed your full name, ad-
dress (including zip code), telephone
number (including area code), and the name
of the school or program in which you are
enrolled, as well as its principal, if ap-
plicable.

Send your entry in a heavy manila envelope,
with a self-addressed envelope with the
proper postage for acknowledgment of its
receipt.

Mail your entry, not before March 1, 1984 to:
Scholarship Essay Contest, New England

November-December 1983

10.

11.

12.

13.
14.
15.

16.
17.

18.

Anti-Vivisection Society, 1 Bulfinch Place,

Boston, MA 02114.

All entries must be received at NEAVS
headquarters or be postmarked by April 6,
1984, to be eligible.

All essays properly entered become the
property of the New England Anti-
Vivisection Society and may be reproduced
and distributed, in whole or in part, by
NEAVS at no charge.

Upon request, you must also be able to pro-
vide NEAVS with a letter giving the New
England Anti-Vivisection Society the first
world publishing and promotional rights for
your essay if it is selected a winner.

The decisions of the judges are final.
Winners will be announced in June, 1984.

The New England Anti-Vivisection Society
cannot be responsible for loss of or damage
to entries.

Contest entries are not returnable.

The 1984 New England Anti-Vivisection
Society Scholarship Essay Contest is sub-
ject to all local, state and federal regula-
tions.

Employees, Officers and Directors of the
New England Anti-Vivisection Society and
their families are not eligible.

11

 




 

 

 

 

 

MYTH from page 5

have been a major step backward if we had per-
mitted the power of the opposition to kill the
very first animal rights resolution. So we per-
sisted — to the bitterwsweet end — and did, in-
deed, pass the resolution.

I am proud of this resolution. And I am also
quick to say that had we not compromised, the
resolution would have remained a glorious
writing, handsomely framed, and hung in my of-
fice for an occasional glance! But now the
Legislature of the State of California has an of-
ficial resolution to protect and defend the
rights of animals.

As simple as it reads, the opposition is still
agonizing. The most revealing statement
comes from a group curiously named THE
WILDLIFE CONSERVATION FUND which
wrote: “The exceedingly dangerous concept
that animals should have legal rights has
gained a toehold in the United States. Rights is
a special word in this country. It is the central
word that has differentiated the political status
of individual Americans from individuals
anywhere else in the world. It represents a prin-
cipal sacred to us. To associate this word with
lower animals is a desecration.”

The opposition is still agonizing over another
legislative victory —— prohibiting pound seizure
in the City of Los Angeles in 1981. Pound
Seizure means the selling of unclaimed and
unadopted pets from animal shelters to
laboratories for experimentation. It is an
American practice that is mandated in seven
states and prohibited in six states. In the other
states it is decided on a local level. I was cen-
trally involved in a successful effort to stop
pound seizure in Los Angeles where it had been
permitted by local ordinance for thirty years.
Our fight and final victory was a result of a
marvelously cooperative effort, and brought
liberation to over 2,000 dogs and cats who were
being legally seized from our shelters every
year and sold for vivisection. In that instance,
no compromise was forced upon us and we did,
indeed, have absolute prohibition of such sale.
Now we are fighting for California State pro-
hibition. And it is WAR. Our opposition views
California as a sort of last bastion, and they
have rallied their national groups’ support. If
California “falls”, they envision a federal pro-
hibition. And so do we. Our opposition includes
virtually all the medical, veterinary and scien-
tific associations, all of which put big dollars
into political campaigns. They may have the
power of the dollar, but we are harnessing the
power of the voting public. We have laid out a
careful strategy. To date, we have the support
of 102 state anti-cruelty societies; handsomely

12

produced literature with facts carefully
gathered; outstanding documentation that
refutes the value of the former pet as a viable

. research “tool”; hundreds of protocols of ac-

tual experiments using pound animals in pain-
ful experiments; ad campaigns; 280,000 peti-
tion signatures. Also, I believe for the first time
in any fight against pound seizure, we set out to
prove that our fight was not just a struggle be-
tween the humane community and the scien-
tific community. We were successful. We coor-
dinated an effort to collect signatures from
California doctors (MDs, PhDs, DVMs, etc.) urg-
ing prohibition of pound seizure, and, to date,
that list numbers 682! Our job was to coor-
dinate the pro-animal constituency to exert its
political muscle. If the law is passed, it will be
because the public wanted it.

Pound seizure prohibition is, in itself, a com-
promise. It doesn’t stop vivisection, but it stops
the use of our pets in vivisection. And by pass-
ing this law, we will liberate nearly 15,000 pet
dogs and cats from laboratory experiments
every year. Our bill has passed one house of
government, and now it moves on to the next.
When we approach the next house we may be
forced to compromise. Many organizations will
stay with us, but I believe many groups will be
highly critical of our acceptance of any com-
promise. Here again, they will stand firm, and
the animals will not have advanced one step.

These immovable albeit well-intentioned
animals rights groups collect their annual dues
and donations and promise to change things.
They change little, except the covers of their
newsletters and magazines. I enormously
regret this division in our ranks, but I will not
divert valuable energies trying to close the rift.
It seems many people have totally failed to
recognize the operational differences between
personal moral philosophy and a practical
political strategy.

In our nation’s capitol, laboratory animal
bills periodically glimmer, float around awhile
and, in time, die. Usually a strong bill will be
sponsored, and initially supported by everyone
in the movement. Then it finds an author and
begins to go through hearings and changes.
With its amendments usually goes its support.
The abolitionist community decides the bill
doesn’t go far enough so they either drop it or
oppose it, and further confuse the legislators
who see us as a splintered and erratic move-
ment.

Presently we have a federal bill which would
allocate 20 million dollars over a 3-year period
for the development of alternatives to the use
of live animals in research. A mere pittance in
“th of the vast annual multibillion dollar
research budget. Yet, even though our govern-

Reverence For Life

 




ment is shamefully now spending little on the
search for alternatives, this bill does not have
the support of the majority of animal groups! It
was disparaged some months ago as having
been “compromised away”. And so it goes . . .
or doesn’t go.

Unfortunately, I think we have to legislate
kindness. I do not believe it comes naturally to
a species which legislates war. In the
foreseeable future, the best hope for research
animals will be via legislation. Other factors,
unexpectedly, are beginning to surface. Media
and press attention has lately begun to
challenge the public’s perception of research
as the white-cloaked savior it was once thought
to be. The greatly increased death rates from
cancer and heart disease, rising disability rates
among children, examples of unreliable and
dangerous drugs — all of this despite the
squandering of billions of dollars for vivisec-
tion!

Another stunning weapon in our antivivisec-
tion fight is the recently surfaced sensational
exposes of scientific fraud and deception in
leading university and hospital research
publications. We are beginning to see the
scientific idols topple from the pedestals. With
their loss of balance should come a better
balance of the facts about animal research —
the costs, the multiplicity, the suffering, the
unreliability, and perhaps the first little glim-
mer of doubt about the methodology itself.
WAS IT THE RIGHT CHOICE? If the public
begins to question the choice, it might begin to
question our laws.

We in the antivivisection movement must
commit ourselves to continual forward motion.
Perhaps slow, but let’s see motion. Let’s

understand what it takes to move forward — to
motivate laws which will help research
animals. The scientific community has a long
head start! They almost succeeded in setting
peoples’ minds to believe vivisection is
necessary. How? By tapping into the public’s
fears, their ignorance and their human ar-
rogance. It’s as simple as “this dog . . . or your
child.” We can succeed in changing that mind-
set if we prove that vivisection is not necessary,
and not as good as advertised!

We must, and we can, convince the public
that our advocacy of animal rights is ultimately
intended to benefit all animals, including the
human variety. I am appalled at the inhumanity
of human beings toward other human beings.
Scientific progress is highly desirable, but
scientific progress is not necessarily human
progress. All this animal suffering and pain is
supposedly intended to find cures for diseases.
But it is not disease which is the greatest threat
to human health . . . it is other human beings.
All the animal research in the world won’t save
us from ourselves.

This new decade is promising great things.
Clearly, the antivivisection movememt is
attracting new public and media attention.
From such visibility can come intense debate
from which will flow strong protective laws. The
biomedical holocaust is global; therefore, inter-
national conferences such as this one are in-
dispensable. The eminent company gathered
here may not see total abolition in our
lifetimes, but we are setting the stage, perfect-
ing the script, and preparing to brave any
critical reviews. Our show must go on — for the
audience, for ourselves, and for those who in-
spired our drama — the animals.

 

 

NEAVS offers its members, at reduced cost,
a variety of books dealing with the use of
animals in experimentation, and, more broadly,
with the issue of animal rights. These un-
abridged editions make welcomed gifts during
the holiday season and, at the same time, help
spread our message.

ALTERNATIVES
TO PAIN
ln Experiments
on Animals

hiilm I‘mli [V1.0

 

 

NAME:

 

ADDRESS:

 

CITY/STATE: ZIP

 

Please send:
copies of Alternatives to Pain In Experiments On Animals, soft cover, $3.95 per copy.
copies of The Crimson Cage, soft cover, $5.95 per copy.
copies of Animal Rights and Human Obligations, soft cover, $8.95 per copy.
copies of Animal Liberation, hard cover, $6.90 per copy.
copies of Psychology Experiments on Animals, soft cover, $3.95 per copy.
[3 Please send ( ) gift acknowledgement card(s).

Please indicate your selections and mail this coupon to NEAVS, One Bulfinch Place, Boston,
MA 02114. Allow three to four weeks for delivery.

 

 

 

November-December 1983

13

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Letters To NEAVS

Not too long ago, while vacationing on Cape
God, I had a conversation with a marIne
biologist and an executive of a national phar-
maceutical company.

The biologist explained how the Cape was
formed. Over millinia, the Labrador current col-
lided with the Gulf stream, resulting in silt
deposits which became the Cape. He remarked
on how interesting it is that the collision of two
natural forces could result in the formation of a
land mass of such beauty.

The conversation turned to the German
philosopher, Arthur Schopenhaum who thought
that most human advancement resulted from
the merging of conflicts, i.e. the collision of one
thesis or doctrine with an antithesis or oppos-
ing doctrine. The result of the collision of the
thesis and anti-thesis is the synthesis which is
a step forward; much like the formation of Cape
God by the collision of two currents.

 

 

us. POSTAL sumo:
STATEMENT OF OWNERSHIP, MANAGEMENT AND CIRCULATION
(Required by an u.s.c. aces)

 

 

 

 

 

 

1. TITLE OF PUBLICATION A. PUBLICATION NO l2. DATE or FILING
Reverence for Life -=(‘ 2 7 9 0 S 1 :| 10/1/83
3 nnnnnnnnnn 0F ISSUE A. NO. OF ISSUES PUBLISHED B. ANNUAL -v..- . . ..
ANNUALLV PRICE
bi-monthly except July and August 5 $5.00 dues

 

 

A. COMPLETE MAILING ADDRESS OF KNOWN OFFICE OF PUBLICATION (Street. City. County, State end ZIP Code) (Not printers)

1 Bulfinch Place , Boston , Massachusetts 0211 4
5. COMPLETE MAILING ADDRESS OF THE HEADQUARTERS OR GENERAL BUSINESS OFFICES OF THE PUBLISHERS (Not printers)

 

same as #4

 

6. FULL NAMES AND COMPLETE MAILING ADDRESS OF PUBLISHER. EDITOR, AND MANAGING EDITOR (This Item MUST NOT be blenlr)
PUBLISHER (Name end Complete Meillrlg Addreu)

 

1 Bulfinch Place

New England Anti~Vivisection Society Boston, MA 02114

EDITOR (Nome end Complete Melllng Address)

 

_ New En land Anti—Vivisection Societ
Robert M. Ford, Pres1dent 1 Bulfgnch Place, Boston, MA 02114y

MANAGING EDITOR (Name end Complete Malling Addreu)

 

New England Anti—Vivisection society

Lisa A. Roberts 1 Bulfinch Place, Boston, MA 02114

 

7. OWNER i/f owned by a corporation. its name d dd d addresses of stockholder:
w ‘ r a ’

an a res: must be stated and also immediately thereunder the name: an

it Ming 1 percent or more of total amount of stock. If not owned by a corporation, the am an eddr s of the individual What: must
be given. if owned by a partnership or other unincorporated firm, its name and address, as well es that at each individual must be given. It the publica-
tion is published by a nonprofit organization, its name and address must be stated.) (Item must be completed}

 

FULL NAME COMPLETE MAILING ADDRESS

 

 

New England Anti-Viyisection
ociety

l Eulflnrh Place
Boston, MA 07114

 

 

 

 

8. KNOWN BONDHOLDERS MORTGAGEES, AND OTHER SECURITY HOLDERS OWNING OR HOLDING 1 PERCENT OR MORE OF
TOTAL AMOUNT OF BONDS. MORTGAGES OR OTHER SECURITIES (I! there ere none, to etelel

FULL NAME

 

COMPLETE MAILING ADDRESS

 

 

N/A

 

 

 

 

 

9. FOR COMPLETION BY NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS AUTHORIZED TO MAIL AT SPECIAL RATES (Section 411.3, DMM only)
The purpose, function. and nonprofit status ol this organization an I e ta Ior Federal income tax purposes (Check one)

{2)
HAS CHANGED DURING

(1)
hits NOT CHANGED DURING D
PRECEDING 12 MONTHS

(ll changed, publleirer mutt eubrnit expleneilen oi
PRECEDING 12 MONTHS

chenge with title etetement.)

 

——______._——__—__—
AVERAGE NO. COPIES EACH ACTUAL NO COPIES OF SINGLE

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

‘°' EXTENT AND NATURE 0‘ C'RCULAT'ON ISSUE DURING PRECEDING ISSUE PUBLISHED NEAREST To
12 MONTHS FILING DATE
A. TOTAL NO. COPIES (Net Preu Run)
11 . 567 11 , 500
B. PAID CIRCULATION
I. SALES THROUGH DEALERS AND CARRIERS. STREET
VENDORS AND COUNTER SALES no He no ne
2. MAIL SUBSCRIPTION
1 O , 8 2 6 1 0 , 8 6 4
C. TOTAL PAID CIRCULATION (Sum oi 1051 end 1052) >
1 0 , 8 2 6 1 0 ’ 8 6 4
. F DI TRIBUTION BV MAIL. CARRIER OR OTHER MEANS
D SAI‘IEIELESS. COMPLIMENTARV. AND OTHER FREE COPIES no n e no n e
E. TOTAL DISTRIBUTION (Sum of C end D) 1 0 , 8 2 6 1 0 8 64
’
. T DISTRIBUTED
F coggglrég USE. LEFT OVER. UNACCOUNTED. SPOILED
AFTER PRINTING 7 4 1 6 3 6
2. RETURN FROM NEWS AGENTS
N/ A N / A
G. TOTAL (Sum oi E. F1 and 2 - should equ-I nel preu run ehovrn In A)
1 1 , S 6 7 1 1 5 0 0
smmrun: AN“ rm. or EDITOR. PUBLISH
n. I certlty that the statements made by mm“, c m, 5" "USINESS
me above are correct and complete ﬂ /
P8 Form
My 1981 3528 (See ineiruttlo on rev ru) (Pege 1)

14

 

Consider vivisection: the thesis that sup-
ports it is that it is necessary for advancement
of medical knowledge. Physicians espouse it
and are able, due to their lofty position in our
society, to claim some special knowledge of
what is best for us. They declare that every ad-
vancement in medicine has its origin in animal
experimentation. The practice has spawned in-
dustries which breed and import animals only
for experimentation. Researchers need animals
to use in preparation of papers to file for more
private and public grants to do more _ex-
perimentation. Pharmaceutical companIes
need the research reports to show to the FDA.
to prove that the end product belongs on the
market.

Consider antivivisection, and, in particular,
animal rights.

This is the direct anti-thesis of vivisection.
Antivivisectionists decry the use of live animals
in experimentation. Animal rights advocates
question where man gets the authority to kill
and maim animals. Nothing justifies torture
and pain of animals. They are advocates, not
just for animals, but for all of us. Our well being
will be improved by the speedy end of this sorry
chapter in world history. The multi million
dollar research industry is growing and increas-
ing the use of animals to sustain this growth.
Very little real advancement of mankind’s
knowledge is made by vivisection, unless one
considers consumer’s cosmetics, lotions,
tobacco, and other like matters as being impor-
tant enough to justify the torture and destruc-
tion of animal life.

The battle lines are clearly drawn, but the im-
petus is different. It is much easier for a person
to go out at night to see a legislator, or work in
order to save job or livelihood than for an
animals rights advocate to go out after work to
pursue an ideal. Lawmakers and public opinion
makers are much more responsive to an
organized, well-financed campaign, spearhead-
ed by prestigious medical schools and thSI'
cians, than they are to people who “challenge
the world’s great Navys in wooden boats.” Until
recently, the vivisection proponents have over-
powered the antivlvisectionists, and there was
no need to consider a synthesis.

Animal rights is a growing concept which
may force some changes. Recently a large
grant was given to a medical school by NEAVS
to look at ways to develop an alternative to the
Draize test. Also in the 1982 legislative session.
a bill which would prohibit pound seizure of
animals (sponsored by NEAVS and opposed by
the medical establishment) came very close
to passage and being sent to a. Governor who
publicly stated that he would sign it. The
medical establishment may wish that it had

Reverence For Life

 




 

MEMORIALS

 

In Memory Of . . .

Donor

 

In memory of Pixie

In loving and fond memory of Bootsie Kerrigan
of West Medford who we loved and adored

very much. We still miss him.

In memory of all victims of animal research
including psychological research. There is

Mrs. Charles V. Peck
Walden, NY

Mary C. Kerrigan
Mark H. Kerrigan
Woburn, MA

Harriet Townsend Olds
Boston, MA

justice for you, in the Universe, somewhere.

In memory of my beloved cat, Clarence, whom
I miss very much. May God watch over him.

In loving memory of Bagels, who gave her all
always and was my dearie dog — to think of

her is to miss her and to smile and fill
with love.

In memory of Cinnamon, our beloved dog.

In memory of my son, Donald P. Nye
In memory of Cappy, a Yorkshire Terrier.

In memory of my deceased brother’s cat,
Pucy.

In memory of Illya — a sweet companion for

many years.

In memory of Heidi.

In memory of my beloved pet cat, Buttercup.

passed because a campaign is underway that
will bring the issue into the public view as never
before. All of us have a way of avoiding un-
pleasant aspects of a reality such as vivisec-
tion, but a well managed campaign which
brings the problem to the public consciousness
helps show that vivisection has a fatal flaw
which cannot withstand public scrutiny.

The following synthesis may take place. The
medical and research field claim that medical
and human advancement have priority and the
use of animals is imperative. NEAVS takes the
stand that while medical and human advance-
ment are worthy goals, they do not justify

- November-December 1983

Estelle Lambart
Cambridge, MA

Vicki Reback
Lawrenceville, NJ

Patty Wasca
Bridgeport, CT

Therese O. Nye
Warwick, RI

Harriet Taylor
Taunton, MA

Sarra Lilienblum
Jackson Heights, NY

Sandra Larson
Dunstable, MA

Ruth B. Johnson
Attleboro, MA

Elizabeth Julian
Bloomfield, CT

the use or destruction of living animals; seem-
ingly an unresolvable conflict. However, the
action of NEAVS in funding research for alter-
nate methods of research is the first step; an
awakening of public awareness is the second
step in creating a forceful collision with the

vivisection current. When thesis meets anti-
thesis with equal force, a synthesis results. The

anti-vivisectionists are beginning to meet the
researchers with well directed action. A con-

tinued intelligent use of resources will result in
realchange.

John B. Jenney, Jr.
Wayland, MA

15

 




 

Secembar l, 1983

Ms. Maura Lee Talley
3871 Mary Lee Qrivev
whitehaven, Tennessee 38116

Dear Ms. Talley:

You surely haﬁ an inspiration when you wrote Dear
Abby. I hope she will write about laboratgry
animals.

Perhaps you woulé write her to thank her for her
letter an@_urge her to comment favorably on the
Dole bill. Enclased is a COQY of the materia we
sent out to about 800 newspapers.

I certainly appreciate your intelligent efforts,
anﬁ please Reap in touch.

Best wishes,

Sincerely,

Christine Stevens
Secretary

CSzlh

Enclosure

 




  
     
   
   
  
   
  
   
   
  
 
 

Q2” (ﬁg/é

Ms. Maure Lee Talley
3871 Mary Lee Drive
Whitehaven, TN 38116

Dear Maure Lee:

I am writing in response to your letter con-
cerning my sister's refusal to publish any letters
from antivivisectionists.

I am frankly surprised because in the interest
of fairness, Ms. Landers has frequently printed
letters from readers who disagree with her point of
view.

Although I am not sufficiently knowledgeable
to know whether it is necessary to torture animals
in order to save the lives of humans, my heart
cries out in angush when I see animals imprisoned
in cages, visibly suffering from torturous treat—
ment inflicted on them "for the sake of science.”

There has to be a better way!

  

Very t uly yours,

/ z _
' Van Buren

   




mwﬁS\mwv
o m o o o o o_o o o o o o o o_c

TO REPLY BY MAILGRAM MESSAGE.

S

a

3

Nu

a

A

3

H

S

a

was

a M
a

44

O

a n»
M u
3

S

I.

3

Nu

N

n

w

0

N

I

S TOLL

m '
«Mall

®

FREE PHONE NUMBERS

,¥ CZZﬁO m

.. 355m) ®

0 o o o o o 0? o o o o o o o" 0.. o o o o w

.n

1

pass POSTq

SMAIL
*tttit“

 




>Z:<_>_u vIOHmOjOZ >mmOO_>._._OZUx%NJ ﬁ;

wumquvr>m><mZCm Q ( I “w
2:4mb QK... m..\ b a»? w

_<_m_<=uI_m. ﬁmZmemmm wmd 3

wMA-m_u><

\KQ New? .

NN\\ EX

\ru

(«T g \NNNM (W \\\C\(N gkxﬂwﬂmmvx

N

\s‘zM\ “(Rx (HQ §&¢ (KngﬂxaNSCN \NNEKVMP
(\NN Ng (N
\xNx\(NmW kix NMVNMg (N5 HNNNWMNNé (

((NN ((NW (NW ( Ne (NNSi

§\x\\mm( (KwNNxxENg

 




@125; W” W gm /C;\
9
Vi" r #35,;

a‘, j A . 2‘?*‘W/~ I?
I, All ' VI .
L » ‘ ﬁg J/ ”25‘
”it; ’0 / *? // -) (La: “’6"; ‘/l f/ , ~ ’37 2" ”an r9 ,
. i A , A 4 k / I It

/ ,‘ M
if" \1/

I '1’“ / ”’7/2-1 fag/Fiﬁ é ,ryzfv z! wﬂ%,ﬂ x,“ 4‘" r (a
zfer/ 5/ {,«l/éf //’/ 7“?“ A; /1 t $4,211! kw”???
3 25“";ﬂ’ "V3”? "7 1:7. ’Www'r%¢{/4' /

/

7‘32}; /m.:2

‘ // ”W ﬂzéww’ / ””fr' Hwy?!”
”/V‘WWW (”22% WW; - ~ -"“/W é 9’3" 2W7 ‘

5/55 {29/ "c S 1? J

“’77 ”5/“ ‘ w- ”“32”?"
:‘* /,

, (/9, "31/ ﬂWﬁ/Vy 4713‘; ’17? /V

/ ‘5" w Wyn/W
A /‘ W

¢
1/ ’ /”" 0:1’ Oav‘ﬁ’ _, r ,2
"7% 27 f‘ \ /ﬂ%‘

 




”£5 £53)—

AnimaIs sUffer In medical research

BY DR. MICHAEL FOX
VETERINARIAN “r (“r-r .

Medical research and animals

Several readers have written to
me about Ann Landers’recent re—
sponse to one of her reader’s con-
cerns about the care and use of
animals in medical research.

Landers says there has been a 50
percent decline in the use of labora—
tory animals since 1968; not true!
The numbers have increased to
about 70 to 80 million per year. Her
response is almost a carbon copy of
the medical establishment’s re-
sponse to the growing animal rights
and welfare movement. The truth is
most research animals are not pro:
.tected by the AnimaL‘ngfareﬂAct
which is inadequately enforced any-
way. And there is too much needless
repetition and needless animal suf-
fering.

I have three other concerns. (1)
Cats, dogs and primates are usually
kept in small “standard” cages and
with barely enough rpom to even

turn around in.Their suffering influ-_

ences the validity of research done
on them. (2) Much “research” is
hightly questionable, notably crude
toxicity and COSmetic safety tests.
(3) Finally, much animal research

is focused not on preventive medi— T
spaniel and a German shepherd

cine but on profitable (and often)
harmful treatments once we become
ill.

This is politics. The prime func-
tion of the medical research commu-
nity should be to work to“ improve
ur diets and rid our environment ,
,nd .foOd 0f industrial pollutants and
I; 'tural chemicals -— major fac-
Iii“eancer and other human ,5

{.535 ~ .r‘ﬁ...
m f a: "‘>:

IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII

PETS

In my professional opinion as a
former animal researcher, most ani-
mal research is unnecessary and
animal suffering is unwarranted.
The primary beneficiaries of animal
research are the pharmaceutical
companies and the medical indus-
try, at the expense of taxpay-
ers’health and animal welfare and
rights. In the past, animal research

helped us cope with a variety of.

contagious and infectious human
(and animal) diseases. But now we
have tissue-culture and other alter-
natives to the use of live animals,
plus a whole new set of complex,

chronic degenerative diseases for ,_
which animal research alone will'

not help us find prevention of effec-

_‘ tive treatments.

In defending the status» quo of

animal research, the medical estab- -

Iishment is doing a grave disservice
in the name of science and to the

. humane principles of reverence for

all life. Physician, heal thyself!

"Keep dogs busy

DEAR DR. FOX: I have a cocker

When I leave the house, I put them
down in the cellar. They destroy
everything in sight. I though spaying
would calm them down but it didn’t.

I’m at the point where I don’t want
to leave the house anymore. What

can I do?

9- D. H.
DEAR D. H.: Well you’ ve already

. . ~itaken the first step by havmg two

 

 

dogs instead of one. Dogs destroy
things when left alone because they
are frustrated and bored. Having
each other’s company usually helps
alleviate boredom, so-you shouldn’t
feel badly about having to leave
them. What you should do now is
make the cellar a rewarding place
to be. Give them a food-reward
when. you put them in there, also
some old clothes and papers to
shred and play with. Of course,
remove things you don’t want de-
stroyed. The alternative is an out-
door kennel and pen or an indoor
enclosure in the cellar. A radio may
also give them some distraction.

Check the label

DEAR DR. FOX: Can you com-
ment on the quality of “chew
sticks”? Are imported raw hides

 

just as good as those made in the '
United States? I’ve heard rumors to h
the effect that those precesed over-
seas had traces of arsenic in them.

—— MRS. J.T.H.‘
DEAR MRS. J .T.H.: It is true that
some imported rawhide products
have been found to contain harmful
chemicals. Probably the safest
chew- toys are the nylon- -based ones.
Also, this kind of material won’t
fragment and- be swallowed,
whereas hunks of rawhide can cause
intestinal problems. Better 'play it -
safe and check the label. .
' Send your questions to Dr. Fox in .
care of The Sacramento Union, 301 '
Capitol Mall, Sacramento, 95812. .
The V01ume of mail received p: ohib-
its persona] replies, but questions
and comments of general interest ‘

wiII be discused in future columns. , -
V - ‘ ,mj

 




Mira AAA.
Width AIME A TBAAAAAAAE

AAA! 1111mm AoAA
g"§ 141

'I
1‘ ‘x'

HURRELLE’S

, . . ﬂ.
Can t Justlfy the cruelty:
NOTWITHSTANDING Ann Landers’ re-
assurances (Sept. 12, Page D-2) “Tami in?
Minneapolis” did indeed have good reason A,
to cry over the abuse of animals in re«-;
search laboratories.

Whle Landers clearly wants us to believe: *‘
all research is vitally important to man-3‘
kind, I would like to point out that consid«
erable research, particularly in the field 0f;
behavorial studies, where the pain inflict-«j

, ed is mental and emotional, can only be
described by the sane, average person as
deviant and irrelevant. I refer to] such stu« y
dies as blinding and otherwise mutilatingi
cats to determine the effect on their sexual j
behavior. I refer to a University of Wiscon- -
sin experiment in which the wings of 74
mallard ducks were broken to see if they 3
could survive in the wild (they couldn’t). I
refer to a University of Oregon study in 1;
which the front limbs of 24 mice were cut
off to study "the development of grooming
in mice with amputated forelimbs.” I refer
to a study of the effect of hallucinogens on 1;;
blind monkeys at UCLA. The list of barbar-
ic stupidity is practically endless, and vir«3‘
tually all of it is funded, in the final analy-g
sis, with taxpayers money.

Finally, I would like to tell Landers, I am‘3
not a little old lady in a flowered hat whOj:
cares more about her pet than anything I»
am merely a rational, decent person who
looks a little under the surface of things, 7,:
and who doesn’t seek to justify institutiona- '
lized cruelty in the name of bettering man-«‘3‘
kind

P. E. Grame A

LOS ALTOS "’

 




I431"::’___=1! 5-4 3 i.” i

4:, ”' 1." 44 ,4 an

NW 7 1W3
51/45:“ 4s

; ' ' o

. ea! fagte 9f Mb 3211.. 4

.. £444“ “4 .4. 44 4544';41.4,;4_;,4;.44 { ,. €4.44 , 4%“ 44 4 431 44.4

. r . . ‘2'. ﬂy . f 5'; ‘3 'ﬂﬁ‘.‘ ‘4’ Q
1 WWW 111:9 ’59 comment 0,13 America "to presses “ammazs
Am: 1,4419%“? remarks 03 am- frcm the isﬁictien of pain in!
{9343 m TWh in (me Of her experiments. Miss Esséers 1
4 September 90193-11154, ‘ sheuid isvestigaie before ewes—
M183 Lenders is eiiser totally ing ihe pusiic is her leek ei‘

 

 

i

uninformed or misisiemed If knowieége as this ssbjeet.- ‘,

she beiieves that all 'esgyerimes- Eiizaiaeie 3. gipiisg. ‘
ta). animals are asesihetized Ssmhrisge.

against pain and suffering.

E suggest she reag‘Psinful
ExYez‘iments on Amm§is by
Da ias Pratt, MD a graa‘uate of
Yaie University and Columbia’s
College of Physicians and Sur-
geons; ‘Victims of Science’ by

. Richard R er, senior psy-
chologist at . ameford Hospi-
ia1,, Oxford, Esgland, and
Slaughter of the Innecent’ by
Hans Ruesch, a Swiss journalist.

Films taken in various labo-
ratories in the United States and ,
Caseda show the herrible CODdi‘ i
tions in which lab animals often ,
are being heid, contrary to Miss “
Landers’ claim that they re- ,
ceive exceiient care.

There are no laws in Earth

is

 

 




   

MleRUlh M. L8 mm;

  
     
   
 
   
  
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
   
  
 
  
 
 
   
 
  
     
     

   

\_ ,"i

/

' /.{ 7 / 4’3 2577 . 7 ”if"
7 7 {a v / Wk. LCgL 441,3} /””/(. /»,. ‘
/z /‘7 /7 A
,// f j , ,. ..
~ WC- me. a .7 r4
///l

/," , _\_ , »,
/£ {3/}, /(y,,./7/(//11 . /
7 I ” LC'z/arf) ‘2.
7 ;

DEAR ANN: I read something in the Cincin- 1
nati Post that did my heart good. I hope you will
print it even though the hot weather is no longer
with us in many parts of the North American
continent. The moral of the story is a good one.
People who treat their pets in an inhumane man-
ner should be punished by law. Here’s a slightly
edited version. I am de-
leting the woman’s
name. She’sthad
enough unfavorable
publicity to last her a
lifetime.

An Anderson Town-
ship resident will
spend the weekend in
jail after being convict-
ed on a charge of cruel-
ty to animals. The
37-year-old woman
was found guilty of leaving her dog and cat in a
locked, unventilated car at the Beechmont Mall.
Passersby saw the two animals in the car and
called the Hamilton County sheriff s department
and the Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals.

SPCA dog warden Bernard Tigges told Hamil-
ton Municipal Court Judge Sandra Beckwith that
when he arrived, the dog, a standard poodle
named Hannibal, was barely breathing. Police
broke into the car with coat hangers and put the
animals on the pavement. The Siamese cat, Mer-
lyn, seemed all right, the warden said, but, “We
had to lift the dog out. We thought he was gone.”
The owner of the animals was ﬁned $250 and
court costs and sentenced to 30 days in the work-
house. The judge suspended all but three days of
the sentence. ‘

Are you as happy about this as I am?
-—- CLD in Ohio

DEAR CLD: I’d be a lot happier if more judges
were tougher on convicted rapists and child

’ ‘ ‘I'S.

 

 

   




53'3"“? FHMM 53.35:
iir'H-n l.‘lj""“5-r‘j :‘i':r:'._u
A “v 3:1' ~i -73 a;

s. . ., _. fares

*3 '3 3 3535.446

L11} 3 :‘1‘ "V I‘ .‘ La :2” {:13

r“

ﬁll/(Reuse 1

Animals’ friend
protests research

Sir:

Last Sept. 19, Ann Landers wrote
a column about animals in research.
it is well known that. she supports
animal research and feels that these
animals do not suffer. She has the
mistaken. idea that all experiments
are carefully supervised with regu-
lations to prevent cruelty. i wonder
where she got her information?

Last summer I wrote a letter to
The Vindicator about the Dole Bill
5.657, introduced by Sen. Robert.
Dole, R-Kan., a bill to prevent

needless pain in laboratory animals. ,

I also wrote about George E. Brown
Jr.’s companion bill H.R. 5725 to
prevent needless suffering of labo-
ratory animals (an oversight; in the
Federal Animal Welfare Act).

Hearings began on Sept. 19 in in
Washington, the same day Ann
Landers printed her misinformed
column. I wonder who persuaded
her?

The reseachers and cosmetics
companies are against this bill. Ann
Landers’ columns reach millions.
Do you think she was persuaded to
write this column at the time the
hearings were getting under way?

Animals in research suffer horrib~

 

called 1.1350 (Lethal Dose 50 Per-
cent), a measure of different
amounts of cosmetics, detergents
and other substances to find what
dosage will kill half of the laborato—
ry animals. Each year a staggering
five million dogs, cats, primates,
rabbits, guinea pigs and mice are
subjected to this acute toxic test
which many researchers them—
selves condemn as archaic.

Imagine theaggnutthaammals
messages.-. i,§.....f9.rcssi down their
throats, .tO pent]. t5.efli7‘a.rl$ﬁ:iﬁitant
into thestomaghé They experience
emu. gastrointestinal le-
sions, diarrhea, convulsions, bleeds

ing, paralysis and death.

For the 50 percent who survive,
death would be a blessing. Despite
55 years of LD50 poisionings to .
these creatures, the public is still
exposed to chemicals. Animals have
suffered needlessly.

This is only a. small example of
suffering in laboratory animals.
They scream in pain and are oper-
ated on without anesthia. Pain kill-

. ers are witheld and the skin burned

off dogs in massive experiments
where again no pain killers are ad-
ministered.

After these tests animals are not
put to sleep, but left to die slowly in
their cages. I have color pictures of
the needless suffering of these ani-
mals.

The Dole Bill 8.657 is to see that
these animals receive humane
treatment, not to stop research.
Only humane treatment, that’s all
we ask. Write to your senators and
congressman telling them you are
behind the Dole Bill 8.657 and Bill
H.R. 5725. We owe a debt. of grat-
itude to research animals for they
have helped improve mankind’s
health beyond measure, but we owe
them more than a passing gratitude;
we own them humane treatment.

For more information on the in-
humane treatment of lab animals
and to learn more about the Dole
Bill 5.657, write to the Sggigtyﬂfqr
Animal Protective Legislation. .PI.Q.
Box’l‘3719, Washington, DC, 20007.,
ASk for the phamplet, “A Bill to
Prevent Needless Pain.”

I am sending the pictures to Ann
Landers. I wonder what she will say
when she sees them, and reads the
information about these tax-sup-
ported institutions. Yes we are
paying to torture these animals. If
you care please write.

KATHY MAXWELL
Poland

 




RT, 6‘?
91,850
54153

PO

GE,

:59!
81/41?

JD

‘4 w
a,» A 1;

K’
s

B

T...
S
0
D...
T
DH
0
Bl
Er—
mu
m
nﬁ
B

370

m .L
r.)«

w

4-15.,»

 




