Sydney :Daily Telegraph

26 August 1981

Cattle producers
want“ meat
eXport inquiry .

CANBERRA. -- Australian
cattle producers have called for
a judicial inquiry after the dis-

covery of horse and kangaroo '

meat mixed with export beef in
cartons impounded in Mel-
bourne.

The president of the Cattle As-
sociation of Australia, Mr Gerry
Collins, said yesterday the in-
quiry should have wide-ranging
powers to expose those respons-
ible.

The Government has already
ordered Federal police and the
Trade Practices Commission to
investigate the matter. ‘

“Discovery of kangaroo meat
recently, in addition to horsemeat
substitution in beef exports, has
sent a shudder through the cattle
industry,” Mr Collins said.

The affair had attracted wide
media coverage in the US and
only a full inquiry would uncover
the extent of such activities and
restore consumer confidence.

“A bill to further restrict Aus-
tralian meat imports currently
before Congress in the US could
be passed in an emotional climate
if prompt and stem action is not

taken.

Mr Collins said the Cat-tie
Council would meet the Minister
for Primary Industry, Mr Nixon,
tomorrow to press or a judicial
inquiry and to express the con—
cerns of beef producers.

The council would call for
monitoring of meat from knacker-
res and game processing meat-
works, and immediate reform oi
the dual Commonwealth-State
meat inspection system in export
abattolrs.

The council also intended to
seek a tightening of security in
certification procedures in the
meat export chain.

Mr Nixon has proposed an in-
crease in the maximum fine for
false description of meat exports
to $100,000.

At present, the maximum. fine
for false description under the
export meat regulations is $100.
and the Customs Act allows for
fines of up to $1000.

The Opposition spokesman on

x
l

‘ trade, Senator Peter Walsh, said,

yesterday that the Minister had
no excuse for not increasing the
penalty last year.

“Mr Nixon' should have been

' well aware of the inadequacy of

.the penalty following a case in
Perth last year when an exporter
to the Middle East was convicted
of falsely labelling diced mutton
as dicedbeef,” he said.

“Had the meat involved been
pork, for example, the effect on
Australia's most exports to the
Middle East could have been
catastrophic, but the culprit was
fined a miserable $1003

SydIIey Morning Herald

26 August 1981
. By BRIAN aotrou
Wild donkeys and

buffaloes from i the

port industry.

 

 

 

26 August 1981

Sydney Sun

' Sufi 3 VS 7-”

THE MEAT  ’

~ RAC KET

THE stink oi the rooburgerj
scandal has been around for
nearly twa weeks __ and still no
decisive action has cleared the
air. . "

‘The Americans are doing their
best._They’re clamping down On Our
‘meat‘as fast as they can. - ‘

Now some of our Middle East ..
sustomers are "Mamet-about pos.«:-.. 1
siblev frauds. With? reilgieus slaught-‘SS‘

7 ering laws. ,

It all amounts to a staggering A
loss of world conﬁdence in a vital? .
billion-dollar—a4year- Australian cit-j ff. .

Not to mention “the dirty'rlooks a
which Australians are .nOW _.giVin§

' . . .-‘ :i' ' . .
. r’lfcﬁ‘f}.?¥;§:é¥$ . "75"" ~

meat pies and-dim Simse; ..

As the days 'g‘a; ”by, more
people in the meat '.indus-try are
telling police an amazing. amount
about this racket in a nation’s

*health and income.

But there’s no result.
. The Government wants..,a sharp
increase in penalties. . But there’s no

_ one topenalise.

Without arrests and convictions,
the meat industry Will continue to
be labelled unreliable, here and

, over seas.-

We can’t afford that risk.

 

 

 

Northern Territory are
being shot for ‘ export
as beef, soy's ‘ the
Cottlemen's Union.

And they are being mar-
keted at home in dim sims
and meat pies.

The union’s executive director,
Mr Rick Farley, said at his head-
quarters in Rockhampton that
the fraud had reached massive
international pr0portions.

He called on the Government
to stop trying to cover up the
scandal.

And he said meat exporters, and
producers must also act instantly
to restore world faith in the
industry.

“Our reputation overseas has
been, shot down," he said. “There
can be .no more hedging. There
must be‘ a royal commission."

Police guard

Mr Farley is understood to be
under a police guard after repert-

' ing to the 013 this week that his

life could be in danger. .

Police fear he could suffer a
fate similar to Kangaroo King
Andrew Komarnicki, 58, who van-
ished without trace from his St
George meatworks in Queensland
18 months ago.

Mr Farley said yesterday:

AT LEAST 20 tonnes of unin-
spected kangaroo meat is trucked
from a company in Brisbane each
Friday for Melbourne.

THE KANGAROO meat is
used by: unscrupulous Victorian
food proc ssors for the Australi-
an domesti market. ’3

THE THREAT of mass out-
breaks of food poisoning is
alarming- from salmonella and
hydatids.

 




Melbourne Herald

G r

26 August 19 81

cup films

roo ‘cruelty’

B; MARTIN KING

A wildlife protection group has filmed what it has

caﬂed an

"appalling and disgraceful"

kangaroos on a country property.

Now the group plans to
show the fi m to Fisher-
ies and Wildlife division
officials who gave permi-
sion for the shoot.

A director of the Vic-
torian division of the
Australian Wildlife Pro-
tection Council, Mr‘ Peter
Preuss, said: “The Fish-
eries and Wildlife divi-
sion is responsible for is-
suing such permits and
for policing them.

“I hope that after

seeing this film they will
view their responsibilities
in-a different way.”
The film was taken on
the property of a farmer
who had been given per-
mission to shoot 200 kan-
. garoos.

It shows kangaroos
bein shot .at night from
the ack of a truck and
the truck running over
wounded kangaroos With-
out stopping to check
their condition.

In one scene, a kanga-
roo- was shot in the leg
from the truck.

The wounded animal
manaoed to jump a small
wire fence and two men
chased it.

One man grabbed. the
struggling animal by the

tail. while the other tried
to cut its throat with a
knife.

The animal was even-
tually killed to the sound
of distant laughter.

Mr Preuss said the
Fisheries and Wildlife di-
vision obviously needed
more men to control the
permit system.

“My stomach turned
when I saw the film. It

is difficult to believe that .

anyone could carry out
such gross acts of cruelty
to our national emblem,”
he said. '

“If a person does this
for the cameras, it makes
you shudder to think
what he would do in
unobserved situations.”

'The film has also ang-
ered two State Labor
MP5 — the Opposition
s kesman on the Attor—
( undoora‘) and Mr Rob-
ney-General’s depart-
ment, Mr John Cain
ert Miller (Prahran).

The wildlife council
showed them the 111m.

Mr Cain said: “All
Australians would be sad-
dened and ashamed to
see the behavior of
people charged with the

slaughter of

responsibility of killing
kangaroos. _

“The killing took place
after permission was
granted by a government
authority.

“In such circumstances
where here was .any
xsuggesti that the law
against cruelty might be
breached, then the
authority has a duty to
ensure that proper con-
trol and supervision is
exercised. over the kill-
ing."

Mr Miller said:
shocked and outraged at
this appalling cruelty to
defenseless animals.

A spokesman for the
Fisheries and Wildlife di-
vision said arrangements
were being made for offi-
cials to see the film later
this week.

“We will decide then
whether it is something
that is a matter of con-
cern to this division," he
said. -

“ 7e issue permits to
farmers who have had
damage on their proper-
ties by kangaroos.

“But it is only a permit
to do it by shooting.”

“I am'

i

The Age (Melbourne) 2).; August 1981

’Call to bring roos

under health law

The Victorian Government has been called
on to legislate to stop kangaroo meat being
used in hamburgers and smallgoods.

The shadow Minister for Health, Mr
Roper, yesterday said that because. kangaroo is
classiﬁed as game, under existing legislation. it
was not required to undergo any tests by the
health or agriculture departments.

Mr Roper said that it was obvious that kan-
garoo meat was being widely used. “if we are
going to kill kangaroos then they should be
brought under the health regulations,” he said.

“At the moment the kangaroos are being shot
at night, then left all night —- white bacteria grows
in them - and then processed the next day,
most probably in un'hygienic conditions,” he said.

“It is only a matter of time before this un-
controlled use of kangaroo meat ends up in' a
major health scare as it is likely that the uncheck-
ed kangaroo meat currentiy being used is unsafe,”
he said.

In 1965, kangaroo meat was revealed as a
source of salmonella in investigations made by the
South Australian institute of Medical and Veterin-
ary Science following several child deaths from
the poison. -’

“Something most people don’t know is that
kangaroo meat was found in a dim sim at Staweil
last year,” he said. -

“I have also received a report from a NSW
Government agency two weeks ago, that states
that kangaroo meat is being brought down to
Melbourne from NEW for the speciﬁc purpose of
mixing it with beef," he said.

Investigations by the Australian Wildlife Pro-
tection Council have also revealed a dramatic
growth in the kangaroo industry in Victoria since
Septenber, last year.

21; August 1981

Get. the cheats!

IN ihtei‘r’iatfonal't’r‘ad'é,a's 'in ordinary

Melbourne Herald

Allegations that kangaroo meat is
3 finding its way into. hamburgers and
' smallgoods on the Victorian market are
also disturbing. At least once in the past.
kangaroo meat has been the sourclef'
fatal Salmonella poisbning. _ g .
. This is not a question of sentimen—
' . , . , , . tality concerning the slaughter of horses
oligress,thejfraudhas attracted Wide- Lor kangaroos; “it is one of.basic hygiene
spread medla' coverage. Belatedly, the t"'——- and what' processes arefft for human
anary Industry Minister, Mr Nixon, : consumption and what'are’not. ObviOus-
has announced vastly” increased Penalties ;' ly, the problems involved in inspecting
for breaches of the «smart meat ,regula- ‘5 all consignments of beef‘for export and
“011,5, but only resolute legal act‘iOn a’local'hconsulﬁption are immense, but the
against offenders can restore our repute; ' present abuses of the system which
tion. abroad. en _. ”ger health and destroy our export
creapility must be removed.

day-to-day‘ business, a good name is

essential. Thus it is impassibleito cal-
culate what the cheats who. have been
lacing export beef with horsemeat and
hangaroo have cost this country. _
gs: ‘_—Ingetheqll.$.., where a Bill _'_tO restrict .
"‘ wan? meat JiI.1?inn:tails.a1.ready before a

.’ 1
i

 




an»... .. omswm‘m..m-.a~. -...... _~..

.. “4.. an...

m - ﬁa... a...“

A--

“a..- -‘ -n _‘_

V, ‘3‘ -"'-- n w»
. . .r~""' '-'
5., . - W_‘M.“

3% “‘5. a. ,

5“ ‘. vi. ’2
a" i ‘7 ,_ . .

2H. §A ’ ‘D-
a s - , s
' :i‘ .» gr , ' .
. i" " '1
. f3 : . . -: f
a.” '7'» ' iv.
5 ., w; ._ ,‘ ”5W5 “ _’ >
' 3,4,?h.‘ .:__ '1»; _ , a. “\h

 

Written and produced by William Barklo

Side 1
Introduction and loon call identification,

narrated by Robert J. Lurtsema. (19:45)

Side 2

I. 'Chorus from a distant lake (4:02)

II. Tremolo duet (2:14)

III. Wail duet (1:37)

IV. Border confrontation (1:58)

V. Wails with morning songbird chorus (3:20)
VI. Tremolos while running (1:52)

VII. Wails during a thunderstorm (2:48)
vrrr. Coyotes calling with 150m (307)

Important Note

Please do not play recorded loon calls near waters
occupied by breeding pairs. Such apparent challenges
to their territory may interfere with the delicate nesting
cycle and prevent successful breeding.

The loon pair first establishes a territory from which

it repels other loons. During this period the presence of
rival loons, or their reproduced calls, may delay actual
nest construction and egg laying. During the incubar
tion and chick/rearing periods, the adults will rush to
repel real or simulated intruders, thus leaving the eggs

or young unprotected against predation and exposure.

Jacket design courtesy of Humphrey, Browning, MacDougall, Inc.

Reproduction of Common Loon painting by John J. Audubon
from the collection of the National Audubon Society" Inc..
950 Third Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10022.

Sound engineering by John Newton ofNewton Electronics,

Boston, Mass.

Published by National Audubon Society”, 950 Third Avenue.
New York, N.Y. 10022, and North American Loon Fund,
Meredith, N.H. 03253.

Credit: Passage quoted in the narration is from SURVIVAL OF THE
BARK CANOE by John McPhee. Copyright © 1975 by John

McPhee. By permission of Farrar, Straus Gt Giroux, Inc. This material
first appeared in The New Yorker.

William Barkley. received his PhD in 197 9 from Tufts University. His thesis
dealt with loan vocal communication He is currently teaching at
Frarriingham State College in Massachusetts and continuing his research on
loon Communication

Robert]. Lunxma is the host of "Morning Pro Musica' at W'GBH Public
Broadcasting in Boston, Massachusetts.

© @1980 \Villiam Barklow

.....,-i“.-i£~ . ”seem

 

s a help —. 2 identifying the loon calls and their variations, sound spectrographs are

provide. . These diagrams are visual representations of sounds that are more accurate

and ea :er to read than musical notation. They display sound in the form of a graph

that s rows how pitch changes with time. The horizontal axis represents time, so a

call begins at the left and ends at the right. Pitch changes are read from the vertical axis. For

example, the second note of the typertwo wail is pitched higher than the first, so it appears higher

on the graph. Time is measured in seconds, and pitch in cycles per second (cps). As a reference,
middle C on a piano is 262 cps, and the next octave, C’, is 523 cps.

In some cases, such as the typevone wail, one note appears above another. The lower note is the
fundamental which determines the pitch that you hear. The higher note is called a harmonic.
Harmonics do not change the pitch but add richness to the sound.

As you listen to the examples on Side One, compare the calls with the spectrographs.

WAIL

 

TYPE 2

 

 

TREMOLO
TYPE 2

PITCH (cps)

.b
O
O

 

 

YODEL

INTRODUCTION REPEAT UNITS

 

_/\
/ ..

./ O
,_/

par—Ti )«U~/}

 

TREMOLO-WAIL

J v
MK ._.__
J v

 

TREMOLO-YODEL

._/“’

’\

l L)

quuﬁqu"
s.) \’ \‘U ‘

 

 

 

Side 2

 

 

I. Chorus from a distant lake.

A chorus usually begins when a single loon
gives a series of wails or tremolos.Then other birds
join in nearby, apparently stimulated by the calls
from the first bird. In a good chorus every loon on
a lake will call at the same time. On a quiet
windless night, the birds on neighboring lakes can
hear the chorus and may also begin to call. If
conditions are right, the loons of an entire lakes
region will chorus together.

II. Tremolo duet.

A duet occurs when both members of a mated
pair call at the same time. Tremolo duets are
usually a result of a disturbance t0 the HESt OI'
chicks and are frequently given as part ofa distrac'

tion display. When this occurs, the pair remain
close to the source of the disturbance in an
attempt to draw attention away from the nest or
chicks.

Band II is a recording of two different duets,
both the result of nest disturbances. Listen for
typerone and typertwo tremolos, and also notice
that in both duets one bird has a slightly lower,
pitched voice than the other.

III. \Vail duet.

Wail duetting usually occurs at night. \X’hy
loons give wails in this way is not known, al'
though after a pair begins a wail duet they are
often answered with wails from a pair on neighborv

.

ing territory. '

Profits from the sales of this record will be used for research, education, and management of the Common Loon.

wf Narrated b‘s' Robert J. Lurtsema .6 Published by North American Loon Fund and the National Audubon SocietyTM

Band III was recorded at 11:30 at night. Listen
for type’two and typerthree calls.

IV. Border confrontation.

Loons are aggressively territorial and will tie
fend their borders against neighboring pairs and
other intruding loons. The yodel expresses aggres—
sion and is given by both males during these con
frontations. Females also take part but are usually
less directly involved and do not give the yodel
vocalization.

Band IV was recorded during a border dispute
between a male from one territory and the male
and female from a neighboring territory. The
yodels are given by the two males, the tremolos
and wails by the female. Listen for the combined
tremoIOvyodel call of the single male.

V. \Vails with morning songbird chorus.

The wail is given in a number of different con~
texts, but it is perhaps most frequently heard when
a loon becomes separated from its chick or when
its mate fails to return after a long absence.

The wails on Band V were recorded on a spring
morning just after dawn. One member of a pair .
was alone and calling near the center of its terri’ '
tory. The series ended when its mate finally
appeared. Listen for typevone and typevtwo wails
as well as some sounds from a merganser, a variety
of songbirds, and a barred owl.

VI. Tremolos while running.

Loons are frequently heard giving the tremolo
while running excitedly on the surface of the
water. This is usually a response to an aggressive
display by another loon or a sudden disturbance.

In this recording a loon found itselfvery close to
a boat that had approached quietly under cover of
a heavy fog. The bird gave a number of tremolos
while stationary and then began to run.

VII. \Vails during a thunderstorm.

This is another series of wails by a loon attempt’
ing to locate its mate. The calls continued for
more than an hour and through a thunderstorm.

VIII. Coyotes calling with loons.

In parts of the Northeast the coyote population
has increased dramatically during the past five to
ten years. Coyotes are now relatively common in
many of the same areas where loons spend the
summer. Like loons, coyotes chorus at night, and
when the loons call at the same time, the sound is
truly unforgettable. On Band VIII coyote calls
have been dubbed in with a loon chorus. The
result sounds very much like the real thing. The
coyotes you hear are a small group (probably a
family) that live next to the lake where many of
the loon recordings were made.

'Iaxrdeductible contributions to help save the hon may be sent directly to the National Audubon Society or to the North American Loon Fund at the addresses above-

 

. . - ’Erwm‘rmemem w: ,v. --smwr~ new WW“* *

 

 




 

. -m...“ “‘2m'

 
   

.' '1 :-::-:-'1-‘:~‘- By Saundra Saperstein “ '1 ‘
Washington Post Staff Writer

The trial of Edward Taub, a 50- -year- -old scien-
tist charged with animal cruelty 1n the treatment

.of his research animals, began yesterday with the

prosecution showing a graphic film of one of the
monkeys caged behind gray metal bars, its head

bending toward a bloody gash in its arm.

The screening of the five- minute color film pro-1
vided the most dramatic moments in the opening
day in Montgomery County District Court of a
Case that has become a cause celebre for animal
welfare groups and a source of deep concern to the
scientific community.

' The film shown yesterday was made by Alex

Pacheco, a 23-year- old animal rights advocate who

infiltrated the Institute of Behavioral Research in
Silver Spring as a volunteer and then went to county
police with his allegations against Taub. It was these
allegations that prompted police to raid the lab and
seize the monkeys, and Pacheco spent more than
five hours yesterday describing the filthy conditions
and untreated, wounded animals he allegedly ob-
served during his four months at the laboratory.
Taub, the principal researcher at the Institute
Of Behavorial Research, was charged with 15

itﬂhrdﬁ ,
”1- tr.
« ﬁst-“fitaeii

 

j; ' Graphlc Film Shown at Selentls 1

counts of animal cruelty, and yesterday his attor-
ney, Edgar Brenner, said his client “unequivocablygg I'

denies the charges.”

“Failure to achieve perfection in the care ofi
these monkeys can no more be called animal cru-‘
elty than the inevitable lapses of parents in caring?

for a child can be described as child abuse,” Brena

ner asserted in his opening arguments.

But prosecutor Roger Galvin stated that the 17‘~
monkeys seized by police “suffered unnecessary
pain,” and were not given veterinary care, sufﬁcient
food or adequate living space in Taub’s laboratory

Taub, a physiological psychologist, waived his
right to a jury trial, and District Court Judge Stari-
ley Klavan will determine the verdict. The misde-
meanor charge carries a fine of up to $1, 000 and/or
90 days in jail, but, Brenner noted, his client “has 24
years of a distinguished career at stake.”

Yesterday. Taub watched intently and scrib-
bled notes on a small white pad as Pacheco
showed the film he shot ——~ without Taub’s knth-
edge -— during late- night visits to the lab.

First the small screen showed a monkey, and than
a large shot of the animal’s blood- red wound and a
scraggly bandage below it. Next came a cage marked
“13” with filth piled outside, and a monkey jerking

s Cruelty Trial

wildly about, and trying, according to Pacheco to
free his hand from the wires of an adjoining cage.
The film show was the climax to Pacheco’s tes-

timony, which had included detailed accounts of'

the animals’ treatment, backed by more than 70
photographs introduced as evidence 1n the seas.

Pacheco testified that he saw one monkey‘ cow-
ering” and “crouching” in his cage, the tip of his fin-
ger “ripped off,” and another monkey with its “right
arm swollen three to four times its normal size.”

During cross-examination, Brenner questioned
Pacheco about his avid interest in animal rights and
Pacheco acknowledged that he did not tell Taub
about this when he applied for the laboratory job.

“You really misrepresented the truth to Dr. Taub
to get a position in the lab?” Brenner asked Pacheco.

“No,” Pacheco answered emphatically.

Brenner also delved into the disappearance of
the 17 monkeys while they were being cared for
by members of Pacheco’s animal- rights group.
The animals disappeared for five days from the
Rockville home where they were placed by police
when it seemed that a judge would order their
return to Taub’s laboratory. But Pacheco denied
knowing who had taken the animals or who had
brought them back.

 

 

      
    
    
     
      
         

’50
HEAT KIT
ADDITIONAL

This offer expires iO/ill/198l.timitone pair per person

WASHINGTON VISION CENTERS

Personal Professional Service—Done in Private Office by Doctors of Optometry
PlEASE CALL FOR APPOINTMENT

WHEN EXAMINED HERE

Oxon Hill Branch National Contact lens Branch
Oxon Hill Plaza Bethesda,M
839-5555 656- 8006

 

{Visa—Cent. Chg—MC

 

 

   
     
    
  

SAVE oMOllET .

run "costs

BANK FINANCING 0k
PA Y ON YOUR GAS euro
1 DA Y INS rAuA now r.
em room/1 '

783-6100

SERVING D. C.- MD. VA.

     
 
   
       
  

Our 70th Year

 

ESTABLISHED " "

“nay-v»- ..

  
    
  

 

 

NEW
- comaarounronr ion? “40 6 ST" *W'

snor a-v mom. ' DISCOUNI PRICES ON

183 0395 FAMOUS NAM! BRANDS

ONE BLO< K rang
METRO CENTER sIAtQON

 

SALE Today thru SOIUI’dGY
Panasomctiiiiowrivf"

 

1111 11111 1 II "

i1 II
II .I11I1II1I1II111 "I

II‘III’ '
[I IIIIM iilliilmm 11! 1111111111 .11 .1 .
| i . -,1II1 I
“-11 1 ‘ Iiii'i “1‘21
\_ 5 i 13’ l _1 .
"’ .. . 1;. .1
.. (IN, ‘
Demo. Thurs.

 

iII III IIIIM ‘ i111,,,,1..,,, W

11I

11 1111111 1“"

 

 

   
  

All PANASONIC
MODELS
ON SALE
12h)?
GENERAL rircriiic T
aromas 12 CYCLES 0‘81"? sf: ER
/ ll ' ‘1'; 4‘ TOOSIOI

191

/ rope/1150

 

 

 

1 ’1’” . '
’ “4:95.33 $14 98 $998
0.4533 VALUE
\EUREK W
. , g »_ A 1-;~~'aouusi’. '
/.iNCREDIBlE "(”1 6PIECE
,1 TOOL f

 

 

[IIWIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII‘IIIIIIII‘

151,9: .

III-IIITHE MATH BOXIIIIIIII

 

ASTEROIDS

ATARI CARTRIDGE IN STOCK!

Hurry! tturryi Hurry! Asteroids is Back In Stock. We made a Special
Purchase at Atarl’s hottest outerspace shootout game yet. First
come, first served. While they lasil Otters 64 different variations
in last action graphics and knockout sounds. Get your copy nowi

 

 

Missile Command Sky Diver
Basic Programming Othello
Home Run Space invaders
Circus Atari Wit
Maze Craze oian
Tic Tac Toe Footba
Street Racer Basketball
Air See Battle Breakout
Soccer

human Cannonball

111.1... in." tires more $18.95 to
We $34.95 EACH

Night Driver Star hip
Warlords Asteroids And Many Morel‘
ATARI CXZBDD ”Wm STOCK!
VIDEO GAME COMPUTER
BACK IN STOCK!
Comes with everything for quick hook
up to any TV. includes Combat Cartridge.

ATARI 4OOIOOO COIIIIPUTER
SOFTWARE NOW IN STOCK!

Here's a sampling from the largest Computer Sottware selections
In the greater Washington area. We teature sottware by: Adventure
lntemational Avalon Hill Strategy Games, Personal Software
___(VisiCaic), Program Design Educational Software and Atari

   
  

 

 

 

 

 

  

  
  

IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIEIII;LII-IIIIIIIIII

    
    

   

II1

THE WASHINGTON POST 31 "

 

’ Wednesday, October 28, 198!

 

 

 

Save 10% NOW ‘

 

“you’re sitting around getting goose bumps thinking about winter
fuel bills, Grilhth Consumers has great news. '

through November 50, you ll save [0" 0 off
pr ice of all our energy saving, money
saving equipment—like Blucray oil .-
furnaces and boilers.
We’ll bring an entire energy

From now ,M.
the installed

  
 
 
 
 
  

hee energy analysis. , I
So call 77 5‘1500 weekdavs from ‘
8 to 4 for fuel bill savings to

  
   
    

 
 

   
 
 
  

. ,I J - u‘ . ﬁt / R\l . ' ‘14 VVEII’ITT V()Ur [IC'Art t
I "I“ . h I I LI! . I ' l a
,‘r

”' iiiii’iltiti

 
    

consumers » 1

Younerverro‘rm ~- ‘ ,
1"“Wr‘

Offer applies to single family home residents only.

 

 

“a e» a."

sto1e to your home, and even do ‘21 5- '

 

 

 

Igsz

 

‘1’ are

{CCW

 

 

been the first choice of professional
musicians, and the most highly
recommended instrument by piano

area exclusively at Gisriel, where

 

 

lower prices than less exceptional ‘

 

 

“By now the Baldwni piano has become
an integral part of my life, as personal
and responsive as my own orchestra."

Leonard Bernstein

choice, at Gisriell

 

llThe AreaiAndEaigu/in is the official Piano for the Kenned

 

Baldw‘i’m .»

For more than a century, Baldwin has

teachers! Baldwin IS available in this ‘5

you'll find a full line of vertical and i . ‘
grand Baldwin pianos at the same or. '

. Gisriei is The Exclusive Dealer Of Baldwin Pianos & Organs. ' '

Lt

. instruments. Make the professional's

 




‘ r

By Saundra Saperstein
Washington Post Stat! Writer

The trial of Edward Taub, a 50-year-old scien~
tist charged with animal cruelty in the treatment
of his research animals, began yesterday with the
prosecution showing a graphic film of one of the
monkeys caged behind gray metal bars, its head
bending toward a bloody gash in its arm.

The screening of the five-minute color film pro
vided the most dramatic moments in the opening
day in Montgomery County District Court of a
case that has become a cause celebre for animal
welfare groups and a source of deep concern to the
scientific community.

The film shown yesterday was made by Alex
Pacheco, a 23-year-old animal rights advocate who
infiltrated the Institute of Behavioral Research in
Silver Spring as a volunteer and then went to county
police with his allegations against Taub. It was these
allegations that prompted police to raid the lab and
seize the monkeys, and Pacheco spent more than
five hours yesterday describing the filthy conditions
and untreated, wounded animals he allegedly oh-
served during his four months at the laboratory.

, Taub, the principal researcher at the Institute
of Behavorial Research, was charged with 15

counts of animal cruelty, and yesterday his attor- {
ney, Edgar Brenner, said his client “unequwocably
denies the charges.” . "

“Failure to achieve perfection in the care of
these monkeys can no more be called animal crit-
elty than the inevitable lapses of parents m caring
for a child can be described as child abuse,” Bren—
ner asserted in his opening arguments.

But prosecutor Roger Galvin stated that the i7
monkeys seized by police “suffered unnecessary
pain,” and were not given veterinary care, sufficient
food or adequate living space in Taub’s laboratory. '

Taub, a physiological psychologist, waived his
right to a jury trial, and District Court Judge Stan-
ley Klavan will determine the verdict. The misde-
meanor charge carries a fine of up to $1,000 and/or
90 days in jail, but, Brenner noted, his client “has 24
years of a distinguished career at stake.”

Yesterday. Taub watched intently and scrib-
bled notes on a small white pad as Pacheco
showed the film he shot -—- without Taub’s knowl-
edge ~—- during late-night visits to the lab.

First the small screen showed a monkey, and then
a large shot of the animal’s blood-red wound and a
scraggly bandage below it. Next came a cage marked
“13” with filth piled outside, and a monkey jerking

.;
\

Graphlc Film Shown at Selentlst s Cruelty Trlal

wildly about, and trying, according to Pacheco to
free his hand from the wires of an adjoining cage.

The film show was the climax to Pacheco’s tes~l
timony, which had included detailed accounts of
the animals’ treatment, backed by more than 70
photographs introduced as evidence in the case.

Pacheco testified that he saw one monkey “cow-
ering” and “crouching” in his cage, the tip of his fin—
ger “ripped off,” and another monkey with its “right
arm swollen three to four times its normal size.”

During cross'examination, Brenner questioned
Pacheco about his avid interest in animal rights and
Pacheco acknowledged that he did not tell Taub
about this when he applied for the laboratory job.

“You really misrepresented the truth to Dr. ’I‘aub
to get a position in the lab?” Brenner asked Pacheco.

“No,” Pacheco answered emphatically.

Brenner also delved into the disappearance of
the 17 monkeys while they were being cared for
by members of Pacheco’s animal-rights group.
The animals disappeared for fivedays from the
Rockville borne where they were placed“ by police
when it seemed that a judge would order their
return to Taub’s laboratory. But Pacheco denied
knowing who had taken the animals or who had
brought them back.

 

 

B“ ‘l‘ 5U!
  ‘° t ' ”ﬂeets;

courtroom one . {

WEAR’EM ,c
restate / § PER

‘ WHENEXAMINED HERE ‘50
HEAI KIT
ADDlilONAt

ihit otter expires l0/3l/l981. limit one pair per ””0"

WASHINGTON VISION CENTERS
Personal Professional Service—Done in Private Office by Doctors of Optometry
PLEASE CALL FOR APPOlNTMENT
Oxon Hill Branch National Contact lens Branch
Oxon Hill Plaza Bethesda, Md.
839-5555 656-8006

rVisa—Cent.‘ Chg. —MC

WAM’SJlSlON-AW ' i .'

 

NEW ‘
lOCA non

1340 a $1., not.

ONE stock mood
MEIRO CENYER ﬁngers
‘ .

Aunts

‘ . .coerpu‘eOUlrrOWioirr
“‘0'.” mom. ' -"'DI5COUNI PRICISON‘KU

. 183-0395 "nitrous NAM; cannot

SALE Today thru Saturday:

 

 

 

 

SAVE MONEY,
ON

FllEl. COSTS
BA NK FINANCING 0k

Pit Y ON YOUR GAS BILL!) - 3'}.
1 DA YINSTAllA now. -
CALL TODAY!

183-6100

sermon: Mo. . VA. Our 70m Yea,

 

riumemo - HEATiNG . AIR couoirlonmo'i
‘ ESTABLISHED 1912

5 .«o—vv

Panasoniomckownd

"‘ iii
‘N‘.

All PANASONIC $

l

MODELS
ON SALE

5.3.

):- ‘

tr

“ "

5B

9 l

‘ V

I" 5,0115%:
Demo W"-

l‘2 to '2

l
. it. i
,. .
'~ , i
N ‘1‘}
, .
~~Achn ii
' - i,

 

orurnu vElECTliiC
%NISO$III 12 CYCLES

ronsrmsifrn
- ‘ 2-Slic8‘
“i Tami.

’ ”roe auto
“75.95 A

or 39.00 $ l 4.98
‘IISJS

 

 

‘ EUREKA
iNCREDIBlE
FALL VALUES

, "bit upright vacuum
cleaner has an ex

 

slung! . Away Dual A

 

 

 

 

IIIII-IITHE MAT" BOXIIIIIIII'

ATARI CARTRIDGE IN STOCK!

Hurry! Hurryi Hurryt Asteroids is Back in Stock. We made a Special
Purchase oi Alarl’s hottest outerspace shootout game yet. First
come, that served. While they last! Otters 64 diiterent variations
in last action graphics and knockout sounds. Got your copy nowi

 

. ‘ ‘ ‘ a...

ATARI Ill-STOCK
Missile Command Sky Diver
Basic Programming Othello
liome nun Spaceinvaden
ClrcusAiarl Dori e’Em
Maze Craze Bow lnﬂ

Tic Tao i'oe Footba

Street Racer Basketball
Breakout

 

...~ SAVE $5.00 '
Human Cannonball

at. that." more $13.95 to
$34.95 coca

Night Driver Checkers Star hip
Warlords Asteroids And Many Morel‘
ATARI CX2600 BACKmsrocm
vroeo GAME COMPUTER
BACK IN STOCK!
Comes with everything tor quick hook-
up to any TV. includes Combat Cartridge.

-\’

 

.‘

“

ATARMOOICOC contoured.
sonwnnr now In sworn

Here’s a sampling item the largest Computer Sottware selections

In the greater Washington area. We lealure sottware by: Adventure
Intematlonai, Avalon Hill Strategy Games, Personal Sottware
(Vileaic), Program Design Educational Software and Aari .

 

I.ﬁllilllilIIIII-III.-IIIIII-II-IIIIIIIII-Illllllllllli

 

 

glllllllllllllll

.1.

all-IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIha;

"'31"! t." "47.43% un’xl‘ Vall— ”r";
‘ "‘fr’f. #11:": 'r’rii‘ne“lx}r2i}:vﬁtk gee-’1’?

THE WASHINGTON POST

Save 10.% Now
ThC Chmate’s

lf'you’rc sitting around getting goose bumps thinking about winter
fuel hills, Griffith Consumers has great news.
From now - through November 30, you’ll save 10% off. .
the installed price of all our energy saving, money
. saving equipment—like Blucray oil -
y furnaces and boilers. »
VVc’ll bring an entire energy 4
store to your home, and even do a
' free energy analysis. ’ '
So call 77 5.. l 500 weekdays from
8 to 4 for fuel bill savings to

warm your heart. .-..,
a; I. a

Wednesday, October 28, I98!

 

consumers

YOUR ENEROY WK
. .v'r‘ W.--

 

 

 

 

 

 

For more than a century, Baldwin has .
been the first choice of professional \
musicians, and the most highly
recommended instrument, by piano
teachers! Baldwin is available in this '-
area exclusively at Gisriel, where
you’ll find a full line at vertical and ' >
grand Baldwin pianos at the same or,
lower prices than less exceptional

‘ instruments. Make the protessional's
choice, at Gisriell

 

 

 

"By now the Baldwin piano has become
an integral part of my life, as personal
and responsive as my own orchestra.“

Leonard Bernstein

. Gisriei is The Exclusive Dealer Of Baldwin Pianos & Organs

 

 

In The Area (And Baldwin is‘the official Piano for the Kenned

 

 




\

 

- * THE NEW YORK TIMES, 'rrrtrrzsniirL OCTOBER 15, 19s:

 

En virOnmen tal Cases . Off Sharply Under Reagan

 

3,, same sassscorr
WmesNewYm-k'mnes -

WASHINGTON, Oct. 14 — Since the
R an Administration took office, the
.num r of cases the Environmental
Protection Agency has sent to the Jus-
tice Department for enforcement has
slowed to a trickle, according to internal
agency data. ,

. cy computer printouts obtained
by ongressional staff aides show that
the environmental agency has referred
fewer than 50 charges of violations of en-
vironmental laws to the Justice Depart-
ment in the first nine months of 1981.
Twelve cases have been sent to the Jus-
tice Department for possible prosecu-
tion since Anne M. Gorsuch took over as
administrator of the agency in May.

In contrast, the agency referred 230
cases to the Justice Department in 1980

and 200 cases the year before.

' Representative Toby Moffett, Demo-

eilned'y’ 099W 1‘, ”ELI

 

County Moves to Ban

Feeding of Coyotes ‘ ‘
; By'SID BERNSTEIN, Times Staff Writer 1

, Los Angeles County moved Tuesday toward enact-
ment- of legislation banning the feeding Of wild coyotes
in unincorporated areas.

The Board Of Supervisors instructed Agricultural
Commissioner Pam Engler to have a draft ordinance
ready for consideration in two weeks.

The proposed crackdown on predatory animals, pri-

marily in urban foothill areas, is directly linked to the
Aug. 26 death of 3-year-old Kelly Keen in the Chevy
Chase section of Glendale. She died of internal injuries
and a broken neck after being snatched by a coyote
from the curb outside her home. ,.
T Simervisors ordered the agricultural commissioner
and the Department of Animal Care and Control to im-
mediately launch a countywide information and educa-
tion program on the dangers of feeding wild animals.

‘ Mien Covered .

The board also appropriated 825,000 for a temporary
pest .jcontrol worker to assist in the suppression of “bold
urban coyotes” and to help persuade residents of unin-
corporated areas and the county’s 82 cities not to feed.
predators. _ , ,

Ifithe board does. approve a ban on feedingwild ani-

mals, it might alsobecome illegal to feed raccons, Opos- _

sums, foxes and'skunks, as well as coyotes.

All five animals are included in a model ordinance
prepared and presented by Lila Brooks of Hollywood,
director of the California Wildlife Defenders.

Brooks proposed $50 fines for a first violation, $100 for
a second and $250 for each. additional violation within’ a

year, She. said anti-feeding ordinances apprOved by.

Glendale, Burbank and Pasadena were based on her
model. . ' _

I that she did not intend to “count beans”

. such has said many times that this Ad-

 

am of Connecticut, who is chairman of
the House Subcommittee on Environ-
ment. and Natural Resources, said he
was planning "an immediate and ther-
ough investigation" of why the number
Of cases referred for prosecution had
shrunken so substantially. .

Byron Nelson, chief spokesman for
the environmental agency, said one ma-
son was that Mrs. Gorsuch was seeking
to have polluters clean up voluntarily
rather than engage them in costly legal
action.

Goal of Administration

“This Administration believes in a
nonconfrontational mode,” Mr. Nelson
said. ‘

He also pointed out that the new lead-
ers of the agency’s legal staff had been
“on board” only since mid-summer and
that enforcement policy, ”like other
agency policy, had been subjected to in-
tense review.

He quoted Mrs. Gorsuch as saying

by starting an enforcement action sim-
ply to enlarge the number of cases filed.
“The goal is environmental results,”
Mr. Nelson said, and added, “Mrs. Gor-

ministration will enforce the law. ”
However, Jeffrey G. Miller, acting
assistant administrator for enforcement:
of the environmental agency in the last
year of the Carter Administration, said

 

that the slowdown in referring charges
of violations and subs uent sharp re-
duction in the number 0 cases filed by

force'mentlparlogram has ground to a
t” ..

s . .

We, said there were tens of
thousands of companies that needed to ,
comply with the clean air and water
laws, the toxic substances and resource
recovery laws and the many other stat-
utes Congress had given the environ-
mental agency‘to enforce over recent
years. b -

Critic’s View of New Policy

“If you can’t find 100 cases a year
worth prosecuting, you must be blind,”
he asserted.

Representative Moffett said that, by
its lack of enforcement action, the Rea-
gan Administration was “sending a sig-

nal” that it was relinquishing the deter-

rent of law enforcement.

The Government’s “willingness to 'go
to court,” Mr. Moffett said, was one of
the major reasons that “the country has
made astounding progress in curbing
pollution.” ‘

Staff officials inside the agency had
reported earlier that the Administration
was about cutting the budget
and staff or enforcement of environ-
mental laws about in half over the next
threeyearsaspartofanoverall reduc-
tion in the size of the agency.

As part of a general reorganization
last spring, Mrs. Gorsuch eliminated
her agency’s Office of Enforcement,
saying that the divisions responsible for
each program could enforce the laws
more efficiently. All major enforcement
decisions must be cleared through her

the Justice Department “means that en-l ofﬁce. - ‘ a.

THE NEW YORK TIMES,»

THURSDAY, OCTOBER 15, 1981'

Positive Sighting of a Ferret
Is First in More Than 2 Years

 

 

gered species list.

J The ferret was killed by dogs Sept. 25
at a ranch near Cody in northwest Wyo-
ming. The small carcass was positively
identified as a ferret by officials of the
United States Fish and Wildlife Service.
The carcass is the first firm proof of
the ferret's existence since a live ferret

PIERRE, S.D., Oct. 14 (AP) —- Scien-
tists report the first positive identifica-
tion of a black-footed ferret in more than
two years. Ferrets are on the endan.

 

was sighted in southwest South Dakota
in spring 1979, Maurice Anderson, en-
dangered species coordinator for the '
Fish and Wildlife Service in Pierre, said
yesterday.
~ Ferrets are secretive animals that are
most active at night. Sightings became
rare in the 1970’s, and when the eco-
mﬁmhel ugh: late 1970’s set in, ef-
p or errets were almost

 

 

“-

 




‘_._

- with Interior Secretary
24 million acres of land being

~ ~ she washington post

 

Monday, October 5, 1981

 

.‘ The EPAin Trouble .

OU’LI. GE'l‘ NO argument from us: there are
things that are wrong with the Environmental
Protection Agency. Like every government agency,
it has been guiltyof its share of bureaucratic nit-
picking, delay and overly burdensome regulations.
‘ Yet EPA has much to be commended . for, and is
among the best of the regulatoryagencies. [t has a
lean, not a sWollen, bureaucracy. [t has far more
than the usual number of intelligent and motivated
workers. [t is one of the rare agencies to have tried
innovative approaches to regulation. Since its estab~
lislunent during the NixOn presidency, it has pre-
served a solid base of bipartisan support. Now, how-
ever, unless Congress can prevent it, the ageiicy is in
danger-of being crippled if not in fact dismantled.
Like most pther federal agencies, EPA took a 12
percent cut in its budget during the first round of
cuts earlier this year. [t is also included amongthe
' agencies slated for a second cut of equal size for the
coming, fiscal year. A recently leaked document re—
veals that on top of this the EPA’s current head,

Anne Gorsuch, is no )osin' torvolunteer an addiar- ’
l l . .

tional 20 percent cut~~thatis before the OMB
budget cutters go to workafor fiscal year 1983.

That document also reveals -'Mrs. Gorsuch’s plans to ’

cut the agency’s work force by 31 percent in those
years, in addition to losses by attrition ‘of 6 percent
a year. The cuts in money and personnel add up to
an agency cut nearly in half by the end of 1984.

Friday. October 3. ["81

rue WASHINGTON P‘osr

. . Environmentalists gird for another battle
James G. Watt, this the over disposition of
studied for designation as wilderness ar-

 

UNDER STUDY.

eas. If the lands t the wilderness des' ' '

, .. _ , ignation, the at almost
protection from evelopment. The controversy involiiegs areas them
ven t received the; designation yet. .

° Members of Congress and environmental groups say those “wilder-

ness study” lands cannot be “released” f
gress approves. or development unless Con-

But one of Watt’s lawyers has ‘ ' "

. _ . _. ._ prepared- an inlon

. saying that the secretary can authorize development on land: that

don t wm the Wilderness designation without seeking Congress’ ap-
proval. Watt has not vorced a public opinion. . .

is as

The EPA is responsible for cleaning up the coun-
try’s air and water; ensuring the safety and safe use
of the billion-plus pounds of pesticides used each
year; seeing to the'safe disposal of the 40 million
tons of hazardous waste generated annually, while
finding, numitoring and cleaning up where neccs- -
sary the several thousand old waste sites scattered
around the country; setting safe exposure levels for
radioactivity; and for the 70,000 chemicals now in
commercial use and seeing that the several thou-
sand new ones introduced each year are safe.
Among EPA’s smaller programs are many that, like
the. auto mileage tests, are part of the fabric. of
everyday living. The agency also runs a large re-
search program, covering everything from pollution
control technologies to the chemistry of soil. For all
this, EPA’s work force of 10,381 employees seems
anything but excessive. ,
. The tasks are prodigious and growing. [f the
polls are right, they are also tasks the public
wants accomplished. The White House last sum-
mer decided, wisely, against a major effort \to
weaken the Clean Air Act. But dismantling the
EPA through“ wholesale budget cuts would accom-
plish the same end—«and more. Congress should
press the White House to put an end to the car-
nage while there is still time. EPA, with all its
faults, performs an essential—~in fact, a life-and-
death—public service. It needs to be maintained.

TIIE WﬁlllNGTON POST _¥Momlay. (this: 3. I”!

 

WILDLIFE REFUGES & HUNTERS . . . Contradictory as it
may seem, for 'as long as it has designated wildlife refuges, the Inte-
rior Department has also allowed hunting in some of them (cur-
rently about 17 5 of 400). But the fact that this is an old practice, re-
newed in rules published last week, doesn’t make animal lovers any
happier. In fact, Interior has a form letter to answer angry protests. It
reads, in part, “refuges wereestablished primarily to Safeguard species

and populations . . .- not just individual animals. . . . Under carefully .

 

designed regulations hunting is consistent with the concept of provids .

ing habitat and refuges for. healthy population of wildlife and is com-V "7
patrble with sound wildlife management principles . . . -”. For anyone. ~
wantmgto hunt or protest, the notice sets hunting rules fer local ref-' '

uges ineluding Eastern Neck in Maryland and Chincoteague r in Vir-

ginia. (FR. pp. 47559-629129/3 1. ) . 5"

I

 

 




MONITOR W8L5/ Lm/ AO/é/U

THE CONSERVATION, ENVIRONMENTAL
AND ANIMAL WELFARE CONSORTIUM ‘ _

v
. mg

1506 19th St, NW. " WW" ﬂ
Washington, DC. 20036 (202) 234—6576

Agenda - 19 October 1981

 

1) Federal Register Notices
2) Draft letters

3) Information and Action Items

a) Reagan Signs MMPA Reauthorization --.A three—year reauthorization of the
Marine Mammal Protection Act was endorsed by President Reagan on 9 October
when he put his signature to the bill passed by the House and Senate.
While the law now contains concessions to the tuna industry on dolphin
kills and to the states on return of management of marine mammals, it
adds significant new requirements for the protection of marine habitats
from offshore drilling. The battle to protect the landmark conservation
legislation extended all year. The conservation community formed a strong
coalition to defend it. Particularly effective in the successful effort
were Michael Bean, wildlife attorney for the Environmental.Defense Fund,
and Guetta Mezzetti of Defenders of Wildlife.

Global Tomorrow Coalition - More than 50 environmental, population and
development-aid groups have now formed this coalition to pursue the issues
raised in the Global 2000 Report. Executive Director Don Lesh will
describe today the aims of the coalition. Organizations wishing to join
Global Tomorrow should contact Lesh at 1525 NeW' ampshire Ave. w;w.,
Washington, v.0. 20036. Phone: (202) 328-8222. 2x.” mrc. {Now [(07”
ﬂ/ewsujnﬂ 9/ were; 2 mo.
F0110W a Wild DOthin -- Horace Dobbs, who will deliver a lecture tomorrow
' night at 8 p.m. at the Smithsonian, is here today to describe his latest
research into dolphins and show us his films of human—dolphin interaction.
Dobbs has founded International.Dolphin'Watch to gather information on the
status of the species and to increase knowledge and understanding of the
marine mammals. W (Boom "§.9w.\~ OOLPHsN"
“ “\(Mom on OcLQmN$"——T-\\. WWW» Sowumn mass .4“ Q‘NMN
ank y Flap Continues -- The battle over the 16 lab monkeys and the issue
of‘the use and treatment of laboratory animals continues to heat up. Last
week's two—day hearing on lab animal legislation in the House were highly
successful in eXposing the mistreatment of as many as 60 million animals
each year. The trial of Dr. Taub and his assistant in the monkey case
begins next week (27 Oct.) and should send shockwaves through the research
community. Both issues are garnering enormous publicity in the press and
on TV. Pressure is now mounting on the Agriculture Dept. to suSpend the
animal-experinent licenses of facilities that mistreat creatures.

 

 

Sierra Club Presents "Dump'watt" Petitions -- This morning on the steps
of the Capitol, the Sierra Club delivered petitions bearing more than
one million signatures and calling for the removal of Interior Secretary
James Watt to the Congress. And the battle goes on.....

 

 




T.V. CLIPS

DATE Au gu s t 2 1 , 1 9 8 1 7 ACCOUNT NUMBER 3 8 1 7
WME 10:00-11:30 AM '
STATION KHJ — TV Channe 1 Nine
LOCATION Los Angeles
PROGRAM Mid -Morning LA

Geoff Edwards reporting:

We finally got ahold of Paul Watson, Paul Watson of
the Sea Shepherd. Paul, are you there?

Chantal:

Good morning, Paul.
Watson: Good morning.
Chantal: How are you?
Watson: Pretty good.

Chantal: Paul, we heard via newspapers, television, what
have you, that you were chased from Russian waters. I
read one account where there were guns manned. What was
the case there?

Watson: Well, we actually were chased out of Soviet waters
three times.

Chantal: Oh.

Watson: The first time we went in we came down along the
coast of Siberia, and actually put a small boat ashore at
the whaling port of Uelen and photographed the whaling
operations there,and were confronted by Soviet soldiers
who were about only ten feet away from us, and those
Soviet soldiers really didn't know what we were there for,
and I think at first they thought we were Russian, and
when it dawned on them that we were not Russian, they
suddenly, their eyes got quite wide, and they ran back
into town, and shortly afterwards two Soviet helicopter
gunships came out after the ship.

Edwards: Were any shots fired, Paul?

Watson: No. Strangely enough, there weren't. Shortly
after the helicopters showed up, Soviet war vessels showed
up alongside of us and ordered me to stop and prepare to
be boarded, and I told them to stop killing whales as my
only answer and continued to go. We thought that they

 

 




 

 

T.V. CLIPS

 
 

would fire upon us. They couldn‘t really board us because
we had ten feet of barbed wire around the ship, and they
couldn't really get through that.

Chantal: Paul, did you get any evidence on film of any
kind as to what you were looking for in terms of what they
were doing with the whale meat?

Watson: Yes. In fact, we managed to photograph the entire
whaling installation at Uelen, and found that the whale
meat is being fed directly to mink on mink ranches. We
photographed the pens where the mink are kept, the conveyer-
belt transporting whale meat from where it's being cut up
right directly to the mink pens.

Edwards: Just to clarify, that is against the agreement
that all the nations have signed.

Watson: Yes, and now, armed with this evidence,we can go

to the scientific committee of the International Whaling
Commission and demand that they look into it and investigate
the situation, and with, hopefully they will be able to take
action by next year and shut this hunt down.

Edwards: Paul, what happened to your radio? We were trying
to get ahold of you. We figured your radio was out.

Watson: Well, we had a lot of problems with radio mainly
because of the distance, you know, from where we were from
the States, and also the Russians were attempting to jam
the radio on various occasions, but we managed to get our
information to our contacts in Los Angeles at least once

a day.

Edwards: Well, I think it is absolutely dramatic that
Americans would go all the way to a Russian whaling camp
and go on land and take pictures and come back. It's
extraordinary, what you have done. My question is, what
do you do now? I mean, you're not going to go be a clerk
in a shoe store are you?

Watson: No. We're going to continue to pressure the IWC
now to shut down this hunt by next year. We're bringing
the vessel back to Seattle now, and we'll be doing a tour
down the West Coast to Los Angeles, and from there at the
end of the year preparing to go to Japan to interfere with
the slaughter of dolphins off of Chichi Island. We feel
that we will be able to, that we can go in there and
actually save thousands of them by cutting the nets and

 

    




T.V. CLIPS

rescuing them.

Edwards: You know, you're like this mosquito that buzzes
in the ear of these sleepy nations. They can't do much
about you, and I know they hate to see you coming around.
We really support you, and we expect you here in Los
Angeles, and we hope you'll be here on the show.

Chantal: We wish you luck.

Watson: I could point out that the Soviets consider this
an international incident. They protested to the U.S. and
British embassies in Moscow and said if we came in a third
time we'd be charged with espionage. We did go in a third
time, and we were met by a couple of warships and quite a
few aircraft, so we only penetrated five miles and decided
we had to escape that time.

Edwards: Well, congratulations. You're a brave and coura-
geous guy, and you certainly have a great cause, so we'll
see you here in three or four weeks? '

Watson: Yes.

Chantal: Thank you, Paul.

Edwards: Thank you, Paul.

Watson: Thank you.

Chantal and Edwards: Good luck!

Chantal: Isn't that incredible?

Edwards: It's terrific, what he does.

Chantal: And this)of course, was a tremendously successful
mission for the Sea Shepherd, even though they didn't pre-
vent any of the whales

Edwards: Oh yeah, I'm smiling because I'm thinking of the
Russian diplomat who had to walk in to the International
Commission, or the U.N. or wherever, and say, "These two
guys are taking pictures on our land!" ~

Chantal: I know. "And I don't like it!"

Edwards: "And we couldn't do anything about it."

 

 




DATE

TIME
STATION
LOCATION
PROGRAM

~sighlea Russian helicopter gunship which began circling

 

 
   
   
   
 
  
  
    
  
 
 
    
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
    
   
   

T.V. CLIPS

August 10, 1981 , ACCOUNTNUMBER 3817
10:00-11:00 PM

KCOP-TV Channel Thirteen

Los Angeles

World Network News

Susan Shaw reporting:

Well, it's no secret that environmentalists have
taken things into their own hands by confronting whaling
ships while in their own boats and putting themselves
between the hunter and the prey. An anti-whaling group
called the Sea Shepherd Conservation Society got more
than it bargained for last night off the Siberian coast,
and told reporters about it today at a news conference.

A spokesman says Paul Watson,the skipper of the
Sea Shepherd,and a crew of twenty-nine people from several
countries, were chased from Soviet waters by a Russian
helicopter and a Russian gunboat.

Michael Ballin (Sea Shepherd Conservation Society): They

them, and at seven-sixteen they spotted another vessel
south of them; they didn't know what that was so they
took off in the ship's direction to investigate. The
helicopter followed,proceeded to the other ship, circling
the other ship also. At seven-twenty-one the helicopter
made a second pass over them and a second helicopter was
signed. At seven-fifty-three the ship was closing in on
them.

Shaw: That helicopter, Ballin went on to say, dropped

two red flares onto the Sea Shepherd, then a Russian

gun ship was spotted and it raised a signal for the Sea
Shepherd to stop its engines. That's when the Sea Shepherd
took off at full speed retreating back into American
waters. The incident was reported to the U.S. Coast

Guard and the U.S. State Department, but nothing was

done because the Sea Shepherd sailed under the British

flag and it voluntarily entered Soviet waters.

 




 
 

DATE
TIME
STATION
LOCATION
PROGRAM

 

 

T.V. CLIPS

.KHJ-TV Channel Nine

  

August 10, 1981 , ACCOUNTNUMBER 3817
10:00-11:00 PM

 

Los Angeles
The Ten O'Clock News

 

Nathan Roberts reporting:

A Canadian trawler on an antiwhaling expedition off
the Siberian Coast has reportedly had a run-in with the
Russian Navy. The Sea Shepherd and its environmentalist
crew left Los Angeles last month with the sole intention
of interfering with Russian whaling operations; however,
before they were able to locate any whaling ships they
were chased back into American waters by Soviet helicopters
and a gunboat. No one was injured in the altercations.

The vessel's skipper, andronmentalist Paul Watson,
has claimed credit for ramming and sinking four pirate
whalers in the last two years. His group contends the
Russians are using the whale meat as a cheap source of food
for mink being bred on Soviet farms. '

Under international law the Soviets are allowed to
hunt only a hundred and seventy-nine whales per year, and
only for subsistence purposes, such as the Eskimos hunting
whales for food. Watson and his group are expected to hold
a news conference within the next few days to discuss their
future plans.

 




DATE

TIME
STATION
LOCATION
PROGRAM

 

August 10, 1981 . ACCOUNTNUMBER 3817
1:00—1:30 PM

KHJ—TV Channel Nine

Los Angeles

Channel Nine News

Nathan Roberts reporting:

Here in Los Angeles at a news conference today, a
radio operator who's been in touch with a Canadian trawler
which set out on an antixwhgling mission off theKSiberian
coast says that trawler was chased by a Soviet navy
frigate and helicopters. The helicopters dropped flares
on the deck of the two hundred foot Sea Shepherd. The
thirty crew members of the Sea Shepherd had set out Satur-
day to confront the Soviet whaling vessel, but they beat
a hasty retreat to American waters when the military showed
up instead of the whalers. The Soviet pursuit began,
according to radio operator Ray Harrison, about ten feet
off the Soviet shoreline at Morino, where the Sea Shepherd,
skippered by environmentalist Paul Watson, had gone to
monitor a whale processing center.

 




  

.. Pesticides Are Endangering
Wildlife in an African Valley

,,, __.‘

 

 

 

 

CHIRUNDU. Zambia— When David
Livingstone and others passed this way

3WMW
valleyoftheZambeziRiver,malaria—

carrying mosquitoes infected them with

 
  
 

theiranimais.
'I'hesedays,mankindhaslearnedto
combattheimectsthatdecimatedthe

  
    
 
 

 

wasbannedintheUni Statesmlm
andsimilarperilsfa
fisheagieasaresulto othepesticide

being used for raying and insect
control in the mush-area.

Here. on the Zimbabwe-Zambia bor-
der.theZambeziswirlsbelowanirm
mum that marks the hmtier.

es and hippopotamuses abound
mememeem m" "
- oot spam,
issue haunting mocking calls from tree-
topaerles.

The Last Great GrazingGrounds

Just ,at mane lpools, the
Zambeziflood airiprovidssush l
tation to support erds eephants,
rhinoceroses and other game. Some
ecologists call manapools the iastofthe
greatgrazinggroundstosurvivethead-
vanceofmtsidersintocentralAh'ica.

. Yetallthiscmrldchangewithinadec-
ade. Ran Thomson. a Zimbabwean
game warden, recently collected 40

   
   
   
  

\

   
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 

clutches of ﬁsh eagle eggs around Lake
_ Kariba. a I75-mile- , artificial
stretch of water here. He

  
  

reported that over half the shells were 10
‘percentthinnerthannormalbecauseof
DUrmthebhds’dietofﬂshTheeagles
catch the fish swooping dives
into waters that drain h'om farmland
:Sngdother areas where the chemical is

Mrfihomsonsaidthaaasinthecase
Of the American bald eagle, eggs had lit-
tlechanceofhatchingiftheywerelo
percentthinnerthanusual.‘ ‘Fromthe
evidence we have collected." he said,
‘Wfisheaglecmldceasetobebreed-
tine‘cadem” LakeKaribainlessthana

Zimbabwe uses 1,000 tons of DDT a
year. Zambia uses it too. Richard Jef-
fery, chief executive officer of the Wild-
life Cmservatim Soci of Zambia.
said the chemical was med in an
uncontrolled way. "The danger maybe

greaterthanwepreviousl thought," he
highevels levels

 
    
 
 
 
  
 

said. Mr. Thomson said

accumulated DDT had been found in
human breast milk, dairy products,
beef and comianmbabwe

Dramatic Threat toGame and Man

A further, and equally dramatic,
threettogameandmankindinthisaream

is a Zimbabwean plan to build a second

NM] lamb Al/LamByALANCOWELL

SpsdaltoTheNisorhTimss ,

often-fatal fevers and tsetse ﬂies killed _

A '- survivabutnotinthesamenumbersas

.1

thehydr'oelectricpoweroflaireKari
ecttmdertakeninthelm’s

Rhodesia
(now Zambia), Southern Rhodesia (now
Zimbabwe) Nyasaland (now

Malawi).
efferysaidtheplaninvolveda
damatMupataGorgethatwouldsub-

at pment,” he said. “The herds would
bevastl redu ”
Inad tion.hesald. theBatonkapeo-
1e, who were forced to leave traditional
Ema. when Lake Kariba was formed,
would now be forced into a further
migrationfrommanapools.
Zimbabwean officials; Mr. Jeffery
said. have visited Zambia to seek Gov-
ernmentsupportforthenew projectand
seemtohavebeengivena favorable re-
cam Ecologists inZambia and Zim-
be however. are strmgly opposed
tothescherne.

Traumatic EffectonGame "

“Zambia does not need another dam
onthe Zambezi ”Mr Jefferysaid,»
serting that any additional power nwds
inZambiacouldbemetthrmrghwrrent
planstoupgradetheexistinghy ‘droelec-
tr-icsystemonthexafueRiver.atr'ibu-
taryoftheZambezi. ' ,

Similarly, Zimbabwean
argue that the anther-ides in
could meet anticipatedpower needs by
tapping other sauces that would not '
havesuchatraumaticeffectdnthestlm
unspoiled game of the Zambezi Valley.

Even today, a motorist in thisvall '
"canstillseeasmanymciesattheroﬂ
side as are contained in some game
parks elsewhere in Africa. Rhinocer-
oses, el ts,,beboons guinea fowl,
wart hogs and sable antelopes are he-
quentlyseen.

In Zimbabwe, game is strictly con-
trolledthroughpolicingofparksandre-
servesaswellasregular tolleep
herds at levels that Zimbabwean offi-

ecolo

.cialssaytheecologycansupport.

WildSpeciesAreBecomingExtlnct
In Zambia, however. poaching.
particularly of rhinoceroeee and ele-
phants, has become serials enough to
promptthisassessmentfromtheWild- -
life Conservation Society: "The situa- Q
tionissocriticeilnowinlambiathat,“
legislation is not enforced and utiliza-
oftionnotcontrolled,manywildspeciesof
bothplantsandahimalsmaybeextinct
beforetheendofthiscen

The Government of President Ken-
neth D. Kaunda acknowledged recently
that there had been “several cases in-

vol ching by public officers. ”
ving Govgrozment warned ofﬁcials that

 

major dam on the Zambed to augment

}

 

theywouldiosetheirjobsiftheywere'
formdtobeinvolvedinpoeching.

 
 

  
 
 
 

 

 




    

 

 

 

 

     

reeding ~

 
 
 
 
 
 

. ipt,”Breed-
ates in the
your jour-
) produced
hould like
y original
aling with
Cayo San-
colony of
maintained
rovision of
colony has
the years.
pulation of
5 produced
riodically.”
says: ”This
been main-
oroximately
.l provision

d killing of

 
  
  
 
  
   
 
 
    
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
    
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
   
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
  
  
 
  
   
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 

e been har-
een sent to

onalchange
nt meaning
important
resource.

eld, DVM
s of Health
, MD 20205

not caught
- the article
feel bound
5 become a
relation to
it has func-
kill.” Unfor-
at the word
article (and
ct," and we
setting the

  

PROB 2l5) 1981

 

lonies, and ’

Monkey Housing: Every Litter Bit
Helps '

Pleased as I am by the acknowledge—
ment paid by Dr. Rowan to the Universi—
ty of Stirling’s use of woodchip litter in
monkey housing (2(3):113, 1981), I can-
not take credit for it. A.S. Chamove in-
troduced the innovation, and, with a
postgraduate student, made a thorough
study of its effects (Chamove and Ander—
son,1979)

It is worthwhile elaborating on some
of their findings, as several advantages
of the system emerged:

Hygiene: The woodchip litter condition
resulted in less contact with excreta
than did the normal bare—floor condi—
tion. The monkeys on litter have cleaner
coats and observation windows remain
less soiled.
Behavior: Of the various effects, perhaps
the most important is that aggression is
reduced by a factor of 5 in the litter
condition.
Cost: Counting the cost of the litter
itself, the litter condition is twice as
economical since cleaning time is cut by
almost 60%.
Odor: The litter condition is less offen-
sive, as judged by a smell-test, than the
bare-floor condition, even after 6 weeks
without changing the woodchips.

In summary, after 40 months of con—
tinuous use to date, no harmful effects
have emerged. The benefits are obvious.

W. C. McGrew
University of Stirling
Stirling FK9 4LA
Scotland

Reference

Chamove, A.S. and Anderson, JR. (1979)
Woodship litter in macaque groups,
I Inst Anim Technicians 30(2):69-74.

Livestock Abuse in Trucks and
Sale Yards

In my opinion, the number one ani-
mal welfare problem in the US. is the
abuse of livestock during transportation
and while they are passing through mar-

INT I STUD ANIM PROB 2(5) 1981

 

keting facilities. The problem is greatest
in the southeastern, south central and
southwestern regions of the country. Most
of the abuses which occur are already
outlawed under existing federal, state,
city and county anti-cruelty and humane
laws. The problem is that the laws are
not being enforced.

I have witnessed deliberate cruelty
occurring on a regular basis in many
livestock operations. Based on my ex-
tensive travels throughout the U.S., l es—
timate that 10 to 15% of livestock mar-
kets, feedlots, ranches and slaughter
plants are allowing gross cruelty to oc—
cur. These are not isolated incidents.
Specific examples of abuses include kick-
ing mother cOws in the face with spurs;
hitting calves at a sale barn with boards
with nails in them; trucks with broken
floors; slamming heavy overhead gates on
the backs of cattle; over-powered hy-
draulic squeeze chutes. This resulted in
rupturing the animal internally. Hydrau-
lic squeeze chutes are safe handling de-
vices if used correctly (Crandin 1977,
1980a)

Physical abuse and poor husbandry
practices cost the livestock industry
money. Stopping these abuses would save
the industry millions of dollars annually
by reducing death losses, sickness, loss
of weight gains and bruises. Why are
these abuses allowed to continue? The
cattle industry is segmented. The basic
segments in the southern regions are
rancher, local auction, trucker, order.
buyer barn, trucker, feedlot, trucker and
finally the slaughter plants.

Each person along the marketing
chain simply passes the death losses,
bruises and sickness to the next person
in the chain (Crandin 1980b). The cattle
industry as a whole loses money. Each
individual along the chain collects his
money, but he does not see the losses
come directly out of his pocket. Losses
are also tolerated for tax and other fi-
nancial reasons.

Here are some typical examples of
passed-on losses: A small rancher in the
Southeast is not going to vaccinate, de
horn, castrate and prewean his young

225

 

 

 

 




:EEgEILéE 18323 61%: LEI a?! u $582122
oRECUPERATION Slslglféiﬁé‘r 1 ~ FLORIDA 33535

. RELEASE ff; smcrunmr . " “ (813) 391-6211

INC.

Review by Ralph T. Heath, Jr., Director, Suncoast Seabird
Sanctuary, Inc.

First Aid and Care 9f Wild Birds, edited by J. E. Cooper
and J. T. Eley

 

Birds are a crucial and integral part of our ecosystem and
heritage. The First Aid and Care 9; Wild Birds gives us
great insight into their illnesses and injuries and how best
to treat them. The decline of many species of birds makes
it incumbent on us to find suitable ways to treat their
illnesses and, if possible, to prevent some of them. This
book has given us these things and much more. It is the
ultimate bird care book.

It is an excellent resource book and an invaluable tool in

the emergency room/laboratory environment. It gives detailed
descriptions of symptoms of illness and the most effective
treatment. Much care has been given to detailing the measures
to be employed from the initial encounter with the sick or
injured bird to the time when it is ready for release back
into the wild.

The First Aid and Care 9f Wild Birds is a diverse book and
is written with not only the scientist in mind but also for
the layman who finds himself helpless to administer proper
treatment to insure a bird's ultimate recuperation.

 

I find The First Aid and Care 9f Wild Birds to be an excellent
compendium on treating birds' illnesses and injuries with
care, compassion and insight. The text, photographs and
illustrations make it a scientific necessity in the wild

bird emergency room/hospital or the home of one who wishes

 

to help our avian friends.

12.61%? Haﬁﬂn.

 




SWEDISH LD 50
SYMPOSIUM

FRAM E to attend

Can the use of the LD50 test be justified
on the grounds that it is essential for
determining acute toxicity or is it simply
a waste of animals? Could this test, so
often favoured by regulatory bodies be-
cause it gives convenient statistics for
analysis, be replaced by a non-animal

, test for assessing acute toxicity. These
are some of the questions that will be
asked at the first LD50 Symposium to be:-
held in Uppsala, Sweden on I5th — Ioth
September I98I .

The aim of the Symposium, organised by
the Swedish National Board for Laboratory
Animals, is to discuss various approaches
- traditional LD50 values as well as
alternative methods - to obtain informa—
tion on acute toxicity. Three main areas
of discussion have been designated:
animal tests, alternative methods and the
predictive value of the LD50 and the ob—
iectives of measuring acute toxicity.
Experts in the field of acute toxicity and
replacement techniques have been invited
to contribute. A panel discussion will
conclude the meeting in which the
following points will be raised:—

a) do we need information on acute
toxicity?

If so, what type of information?

Can testing in animals be replaced or
reduced by alternative methods?

Are changes in legislative requirements
necessary?

Is international co-operation possible
to prevent unnecessary duplication
of animal tests?

The panel members have been selected
from lecturers contributing to the
Symposium and include Dr Michael Balls,
Chairman of the FRAME Trustees and
Toxicity Committee and Drs Vernon
Brown and Anthony Dayan both of whom
are members of the FRAME Toxicity

Committee .

A report of the Symposium will be given
in the December edition of ATLA.

Further details from:
FIRST CFN SYMPOSIUM
Dept. of Drugs L4
Box 607
75I 25 Uppsala
SWEDEN

ROUND TH4HO

FRAME stand attended by B. Annett and C. Tottman at Welwyn.

FRAME's attendance at the recent Ealing,
Welwyn and Horticultural Hall Cat Shows
has underlined the importance of meeting
the public and discussing alternative
methods. We have detected a growing
rational concern over the use of animals
in scientific experiments and have tried
to put over the true scientific facts. In
particular, we have emphasised that
whilst alternative methods do have much
unexploited potential for replacing and
reducing the current use of animals they
do not at this moment represent a
comprehensive facility for achieving
this. Much further research needs to be
undertaken and in this context the
current FRAME research programme re-
presents a positive practical initiative.

Many of the people who visited our
stand would like to see more experiments
carried out on human subjects. We have
however, pointed out that to over-rule
a pre-screening programme to detect
safety hazards could put humans at great
risk if direct testing approaches were to
be adopted .

We have received a tremendous amount
of encouragement and good will at these
shows which have offered us the
opportunity to get across the basic
scientific truths of alternatives in re-
lation to the controversy surrounding
animal experimentation. No one should
underestimate the good sense of the
general public when properly informed.

ANIMAL CONGRESS IN GENEVA

The recent congress in Geneva organised
by the Ligue Suisse contre la Vivisection
which included contributions from
FRAME scientists Dr Andrew Sincock and
Dr Michael Balls emphasised the differ-
ing opinions on the possibilities for the
replacement of animals in biomedical
research .

Medical viewpoints at the conference
painted a somewhat confusing picture of
the medical profession which included
tremendous claims for psychotherapy and
pessimistic views on the inadequacies of
current medical practice in its treatment
of symptoms rather than disease. On the
matter of medico-technology some in-
teresting details about modelling cardio-
vascular responses were provided .

It would be true to say that it was the
consideration of current research that
produced much of the constructive in-
formation. Dr John Petricciani described
a chick embryo skin system for the assess—
ment of tumourigenicity while Professor
Ambesi Impiombato pointed out the

potential of investigating thyroid cells

in vitro. An interesting overview of
short- term screening tests for carcinogens
was provided by Dr Judith Hampson of
the RSPCA while Dr Andrew Sincock and
Dr Michael Balls spoke on the placenta
as an alternative and the potential of
organ culture, respectively. Dr Andrew
Rowan dealt with the issues,both regula-
tory and scientific,relating to the use of
primates.

The obvious differences in opinion at
times threatened to exceed the bounds of
rational discussion and this may well have
been due to some mistranslating by the
simultaneous translators. However, the
congress overall set up a dialogue between
all parties and great credit should go to
the organisers and in particular Madame
Denise Pasternak. Many must have felt
as they left the conference that the
opinions registered were often as far
apart as the countries from which the
various delegates emanated. However,
to listen to other points of view and talk
about them is surely a beginning . . . . .

 

 




 

PYSCH 0TH ERAPY

— An alternative

approach to cancer treatment

The unpleasant side-effects of many of
the drugs used in standard medical treat-
ments have led many patients to consider
alternative therapies. These include
therapies which use natural products for
the treatment of a wide variety of dis-
orders and a new psychological approach
currently being developed in America to
treat terminal cancer patients. Sub—
scribers to both approaches claim con-
siderable successes but whether or not
each approach represents a genuine
medical alternative in its own right or
merely an adiunct to conventional therapy
remains a controversial issue.

The role of the psyche in disease is going
to receive a lot of attention in the future
and the sUccesses reported by Dr Carl
Simonton who employs psychotherapy to
treat terminal disease will undoubtedly

receive much publicity. The argument
that alternative medical strategy will one
day replace conventional drug treatment
and the associated experimentation on
animals that accompanies the design and
testing of new drugs is one that many
ardently advocate.

FRAME's policy to develop and promote
alternative methods for the testing and
planning of drugs used in standard medical
practice represents a practical initiative
to replace and reduce the animals used in
the design of conventional drug therapies.
Non-animal methods will produce a more
efficient, economic and reliable testing
0f drugs and the associated improvement
of conventional treatments, together with
the freedom to choose alternative therapy,
may offer the best all round solution for
everyone.

 

FIBRONECTIN —
A Sticky problem

Adhesive proteins in the form of cellular
and plasma fibronectin continue to pro-
vide an interesting area of in vitro
research. Originally, interest centred on
the apparent absence or reduction of
these proteins in transformed cells and
the implication of the altered adhesion
and contact properties that this produced
in the transformed state. Now it appears
that a reduction or loss of fibronectin is
not invariably associated with trans-
formation of cells in culture although
this may be a reasonable expectation in
some circumstances.

Recently, in Technical News No.3,
FRAME drew attention to the normal
multinucleate cells of the human placenta
which failed to express fibronectin on the
basis of an immunofluorescent.reaction to
fibronectin antisera. (Fig. I). It was
postulated that if the absence of fibro-
nectin strictly correlated with the trans-
formed cell state then this cell type
would provide a possibly unique tool for
investigating the phenomenon of trans-
formation from the standpoint of a normal
and freely available tissue. It appears
that such a strict correlation does not
exist in the case of certain spontaneously

 

3%:

Multinucleate cells of the human
placenta which do not express
fibronectin photo A.M. Sincock.

transformed cell lines, although such
examples may prove to be the exceptions
rather than the rule. For this reason
until the situation is further clarified it
would be premature to reiect an interest
in the role of adhesive proteins in cell
contact and spreading. In addition, one
would be overlooking the. possible im-
portance of fibronectins in establishing
and standardising the minimal components
of serum free culture conditions - a
particularly important and pertinent
question in tissue culture.

 

PRODUCT LIABILITY —
Could affect animal
testing

The Minister of State for Consumer
Affairs, Mrs Sally Oppenheim, has
announced that the Government will try
and include a "state of the art defence"
in the EEC directive on product liability.
If the proposal is included in the directive
manufacturers will not be held responsible
for any unforeseen side-effects if all
possible precautions had been taken prior
to marketing.- This move will undoubtedly
be welcomed by the pharmaceutical in-
dustry which, under present law, is held
responsible for subsequent adverse effects
in humans, even if, in the light of
scientific knowledge at the time of
manufacture, the hazard could not have
been predicted.

The inclusion of the ”state of the art
defence" recognises the fact that animal
based toxicity tests are unreliable in
predicting human response and that more
efficient tests are needed on scientific
grounds alone to protect the public and
the manufacturers - as well as preventing
needless use of laboratory animals.

The Government's proposition follows an
announcement of new regulations govern-
ing the testing of drugs before clinical
trials can be performed. The new regula-
tions simplify pre-clinical testing by
reducing data requirements and, for the
first time, acknowledge the importance

of short term bacterial tests for screening
carcinogens. The relaxation of regula—
tions, which came into force in March of
this year, was encouraging for the
Association of British Pharmaceutical
Industry (APBI) who claim that industry
was being deterred from investing in the
UK because legislation had become so
restrictive. It has been estimated that

the simpler clinical certification rules

will reduce the time for a newly developed
drug to reach a patient from l2 to lo years.
This excessively long period obviously
needs to be reduced much further if drug
development, particularly those for treat-
ing rarer diseases or those prevalent in

the third World, is to continue in this
country. One obvious way of achieving
this is by developing alternative non-
animal test systems which are far less time
consuming and expensive than conventional
animal tests that currently burden the
pharmaceutical industry.

 




RAIVIE

 

@E@EE$@QE
EEWE‘

 

Fund for the Replacement of Animals in Medical Experiments
312a Worple Road, Wimbledon, London, SW20 BQU

Head Office:

(Tel: 01-946 1450)

September 1981
No. 5

 

* '— FUND FOR RESEARCH PROGRAMME

BUILDS UP

Rimmel International the well-known
cosmetics company has donated £l0,000
towards the first year of the FRAME
Research Programme, the multi-laboratory
investigation designed to assess the
Feasibility of using in vitro cytotoxicity
to replace such tests as the LD5O and
Draize. Mrs E R Glazer, Rimmel's
Managing Director,has stressed that

 

Rimmel do not test their cosmetics on
animals.However, the company neverthe-
less felt FRAME's research proposals were
worthy of financial support and so decided
to make a first year contribution with
possible further yearly donations in the
light of progress made . Rimmel's Re-
search and Development Manager Dr

R M Barr together with Quality Manager
Dr W E Dupuy will be appointed to the
Advisory Board of the FRAME Toxicity

Committee which is co-ordinating

and supervising the planned programme
of research. The investigation is due to
begin in early 1982.

Huntingdon Research Centre have also
agreed to house and fund one of the
planned research proiects for 3 years.
This represents a net financial contrib-
bution of approximately £60,000 and will
ensure that one prospective research
proposal is securely funded .

 

CHROMOSOMES AND LEUKAEMIA

 

Human chromosomes conventionally banded by trypsin Leishman method of
Seabright. Techniques which produce greater chromosome extenSIon can
enhance banding patterns for diagnostic purposes.

The cytodiagnosis of human cancers
through the detection of chromosome
changes has been complicated by the
apparent failure of some tumours to show
chromosomal alterations. Previously,
Dr J Yunis and his colleagues at the
University of Minnesota have developed
extended banding protocols for human
chromosomes through a high resolution
methotrexate cell - synchronisation
technique (Science T976: T91: 1268-
l270). The technique which greatly
enhances the number of chromosome
bands that may be visualised has been

“i “i “ ¢

Photo courtesy Dr. M. Seabright

used to study acute non-lymphocytic
leukaemia. (New England Journal of
Medicine l98l: 305: l35—l39). It was
found that previously undetected subtle
genetic changes were evident in the
cells of most patients which emphasises
the potential of this technique in class-
ifying sub types of the disease more
precisely as well as improving therapy
and prognosis. This undoubtedly en-
hances existing in vitro methods in
relation to human cancer and marks a
step forward in direct testing facilities
for human patients.

 

ADJOURNMENT DEBATE
IN PARLIAMENT

In the last edition of Technical News we
announced the start of a campaign to
win Parliamentary support for FRAME's
work - in particular the Toxicity
Committee and Research Fund . Since
then the campaign has gone from strength
to strength and over 30 MPs have been
recruited to the FRAME Parliamentary
Group. The sympathetic MPs are
committed to the concept of reducing
.animal experimentation by promoting
'alternatives' and use every opportunity
to promote FRAME's objectives.

The Parliamentary Group, led by Joan

' Lestor, has already called an adjourn-

ment debate to draw attention to the
growing concern for the use of animals
in research. The debate, held on 16th
June, l98l was reported in the New
Scientist and has excited considerable
interest. It represents progress in
persuading MPs to recognise the poten-
tial of alternatives.

The adjournment debate was only the

first step in a campaign that is beginning
to escalate. In the next Parliamentary
session a full range of tactics - early

day motions, questions in the House,
letters to Ministers etc - will be used to
highlight the plight of laboratory animals.
The need to develop more efficient
humane research methods must be put over
to all parliamentarians.

 




INDUSTRIAL PROTEST- Resistance
to tests on new chemicals

seems unlikely that the European
Commission's l8th September, I981 dead-
line for implementing legislation will be
met. The commission is, however,

going ahead with its plan to compile a
catalogue of all the chemicals manu-
factured in Europe. All chemicals
produced in the last l0 years will have to
be included and the ruling applies to all
European countries - even those that do
not have their own legislation governing
chemical manufacturing. Undoubtedly,
the European Commission's actions will
make compulsory an even higher level of
animal experimentation than currently
carried out.

The chemical industry has reacted strong-
Iy to the draft regulations, issued in
February, governing the production of
new chemicals,that were reported in the
last edition of Technical News.

The new regulations, proposed by the
Health and Safety Executive, are de-
signed to bring Britain in line with a
directive of the European Commission.
If passed, they would require industry to
carry out extensive tests for toxicity not
only on new manufactured substances but
also on all intermediates arising in the
chemical production. Specific tests are
laid down in the proposals which in-
clude those for skin and eye irritancy,
mutagenicity and the LD50. Tests for
carcinogenicity and teratogenicity may
also be made compulsory.

These stringent proposals are designed to
meet the requirements of two legislative
bodies: The European Commission, which
is committed to protecting the consumer
and the environment, and the Health
and Safety Executive which is primarily
concerned with workers health. The new
regulations would put the testing of
chemical intermediates on a more formal
basis than currently laid down by the
Health and Safety at Work Act.

Not surprisingly, the chemical industry

 

has protested vehemently against the
proposals which would considerably add
to the cost of producing new chemicals
and delay manufacture. The British
Chemical Industries Association has gone
so far as to claim that the new regulations
would stop research and development in
this country. The Association is also
concerned that detailed information on
intermediates of industrial processes
could fall into competitors hands and
further deter manufacturers. However
the Chemical Industries main objection,
is that the draft regulations cover a
wide range of chemicals excluded from
the European directive because they are
covered by other regulations. The
Health and Safety Executive argue that
their inclusion is justified because exist-
ing regulations only apply to specific
uses and are not sufficient.

' _«.)I 2»

Up till now conventional video-recording
offered a flexible facility for the relay
of information. A recently developed
Bio-Videograph module can now afford
the play-back of actual experimental
data, as displayed by pen chart record-
er and other recording media, simult-
aneously with the visual/sound output
of a conventional video-tape. This
represents a unique development in
student/film record participation as a
number of recorders linked to the Bio-
Videograph circuit permits individual
monitoring and a permanent record of

The deadline for comments on the pro-
posals was in July but it appears that
further negotiations are needed before
the regulations can be finalised. It now

physiological data such as ECG,

blood pressure etc. The facility thus
enables a number of standard animal
demonstrations in the field of higher

FRAME TOXICITY
COMMITTEE

The members of the Committee have set
the prospective date for the publication
of their final report as November, I982 .
The report will probably be in three
parts: the detailed evidence of the
working roups, the main report and con—
clusion, and a summary for wider dis—
tribution .

The publication of the Committee's find—
ings will coincide with a FRAME sponsored
conference to be held in collaboration
with the British Toxicological Society and
the Royal College of Pathologists at the
Royal Society at London on Nov. I-3
inclusive.

BIO-VIDEOGRAPHY REDUCES ANIMALS
usED FOR DUNCATIAL PURPOSES

.55-

 

4

Bio-Videograph circuit showing module in foreground (photo courtesy BioScience, Sheerness)

education to be recorded in such a way
that the element of student participa-
tion is preserved. At the same time the
number of animals used for such experi—
ments will be reduced as the single
recording can be copied and played
back at will. The synchrony of data
write-out with videotape play back is
the result of much research on the part
of BioScience, a company based in
Sheerness which markets the equipment.
BioScience are rapidly building up a
library of standard animal demonstrations
for sale to teaching establishments etc.
although they point out that with suit-
able equipment individuals can record
for themselves all types of practical
experiments.

 




7 j i _ . VSeptember 22, 1981

.1
o

M4. Christine Stevens, President
Animal Welfare Institute

P.0. Box 5650

Washington, D.C. 20007

Dear Ms. Stevens,

I am writing to you to request that you publish a brief
article in your next edition of your Information Report on our
campaign to ban the decompression chamber in Pennsylvania as
a means of euthanizing animals.

The bill is being introduced into the Pennsylvania Senate
by Senator J. Doyle Corman, Jr. (R.~54th district). The legislation
is currently being drafted and we expect it to be in committee
very shortly. We have now obtained the written support of all the
veterinarians in the State College area, and we hope to receive
the endorsement of the Pennsylvania Veterinary Medical Association
asvwell.

The article should include the following points:

1. According to Trans-Species Unlimited's investigative
report on the decompression chamber, it is neither
efficient nor humane. Only about one third as many
animals can be euthanized by this method as by sodium
pentobarbital injection. Animals suffer definite
psycholbgical fear and trauma, and the process causes
severe physiological damage, which for many animals,
especially those with respiratory ailments, may result
in excruciating pain prior to loss of consciousness.
Some animals, especially kittens and puppies, survive
the decompression cycle while sustaining internal
injuries and have to be run through again. The use of
this method is also physically draining and psycho—
logically traumatic for euthanasia technicians.

Trans—Species Unlimited, a recently formed animal
rights organization located in State College, Pa.,

has launched a campaign to ban the decompression
chamber in Pennsylvania. They have written up a

bill to ban it and regulate the use of alternatives
which is being drafted into legislation and introduced
into the Pa. Senate by Senator J. Doyle Corman, Jr.

The decompression chamber has already been banned in
nineteen states.

Further information can be obtained from: Dr. George
P. Cave, President, Trans—Species Unlimited, P.0.
Box 1551, State College, Pa. 16801-0606.

Sincerely,

57
NJ 4 ‘ ‘
"A.” '5' C” (Vi-’7 0’ [I 1/1,”! 7V’¢~ ‘ n.‘ "W“

"#Dr. George P. Cave

 




Trans-Species Unlimited is a recently formed Animal Rights

~ organization composed of concerned individuals who are determined
to put an end to the exploitation, abuse, and slaughter of non—
human animals. We believe that the various species of sentient
creatures on earth constitute a single, complex, interconnected,
and mutually dependent web of life, and that man is part of,

not apart from, or in dominion over, this biological network. We
believe further that the infliction of unnecessary suffering

or death on sentient creatures is morally wrong and that they
have a moral right to exemption from such treatment. We reject

as speciesist sentimentality and human self-interest as the
_ideological foundation of Animal Rights and deny that there is
any fundamental conflict between legitimate human and non—human
animal interests. We seek to realize our ends through educational,
persuasive, and legal means, and where necessary, through direct
but non-violent action. For further information write to: Dr.
George P. Cave, President, Trans-Species Unlimited, P.O. Box 1551,
State College, Pa. 16801.

 




Trans-Species‘Unlimited

Investigative Repert:

The DecempresSion Chamber As A Methad Of Euthanasia

Prepared by:

Geerge P. Cave
and
Kit Reich
Trans—Species Unlimited

P.O. Bax 1551
State College, Pa. 16801

814-258-0793

August, 1981

 




'l. The Decompression Chamber

The decompression chamber is a cylinder connected to an air
vacuum pump which removes oxygen from the cylinder, reducing air
pressure to the equivalent of 55,000 feet in 60 seconds or less.

9 a

2. Comparison of the Decompression Chamber to Military High
Altitude Simulators

Defenders of the decompression chamber as a means of
euthanizing animals often base their case on the testimony of
military pilots who have experienced euphoria and then uncon-
sciousness at high altitudes and on military experiments which
simulate high altitude conditions. This comparison, however,
ignores a number of important facts;

3) Some human beings experience distress rather than
euphoria as a result of oxygen deprivation,

b) The military equipment used to test the effects of high
altitude is considerably more efficient, SOphisticated,
and reliable than the decompression chamber, whose working
°mechanism is described by the Euthanair company which
produces it as consisting simply of "motor and pump.”

0

The military equipment is operated by highly trained
scientists and technicians.. °

The military personnel tested are in top physical con~
dition, without any respiratory or intestinal conditions
which might prevent them from venting gases expanding in
their bodies.

In the typical high altitude military experiment the
human subject is taken to a maximum altitude of 55,000
feet in fifteen minutes. In contrast, animals subjected
to decompression are taken to 55,000 feet ig_less than
gag minute. -

5. Physiological Damage and Pain

The decompression chamber causes severe physiological damage
to the animal, and there is reason to believe that many animals
suffer extreme pain as a result prior to losing consciousness.

a) Proponents of the decompression chamber admit that serious
internal injuries occur --middle ear hemorrhage, engor—
gement of organs with blood, internal ruptures lung
damage, and the "bands," but insist that this damage takes
place in the recompression cycle, after the animal loses
consciousness.

 




b) This claim, however, is highly suspect. The "explosive"
rate of ascent can cause the sensation of suffocation
and makes it very difficult for animals to properly
equalize pressure inside and outside the middle ear,
and to vent the rapidly expanding gases in the intestinal
-tract. The results of this can be severe ear and abdomi—
nal pain. Observers have noticed clear signs of distress
and pain in animals from the very beginning g§_thg
decompression cycle. Anyone who has experienced ear
pain during rapid changes of altitude in an ordinary
airplane will be inclined to doubt that explosive
decompression does not cause pain.

It can-take adult animals up to three_minutes to collapse
from lack of oxygen, and even longer for kittens and
puppies, who consequently consciously suffer longer

from the physiological effects of decompression.

There is no way of establishing with certainty that
unconsciousness actually occurs at the moment of collapse.
Moreover, because of the decompression effect on the
lungs, animals are increasingly incapable of expressing
their distress vocally. '

The chance of an animal experiencing pain in decompression
is increased enormously when it suffers from a respiratory
ailment, which prevents equalization of pressure in

the middle ear and venting of exnanding gases through

the sinuses. Ear, sinus, and abdominal pain is in these
cases likely to be acute. Yet shelters typically

euthanize many strays, who have a high incidence of such
infections, and many animals are euthanized by their
owners precisely_because of such resniratory ailments,

in shelters which have no alternative means of euthanasia.
available. ~ ~

 

4. Psychological Cruelty and Trauma

The decompression procedure involves psychological cruelty
and trauma for the animals prior to their death.

a) Ursula Goetz, Director of ASPCA's shelter operations,
writes that "the sight and smell of these scenes i.e.,
the state of the decompression chamber after each use]
...remained in the lethal room regardless of how clean
it was maintained. Other employees were always aware of
it a§_were the animals long before they were ever
brought into the roomTr (italics added7. To place an
animal, already frightened by the smell of death, into
an enclosed chamber with other frightened animals in
order to euthanize it clearly seems to be a cruel
procedure. .

 

 




 

'b) Goetz also notes that the vacuum pump, which removes
air from the cylinder, and which runs from 10 seconds
to two minutes, depending on the unit, is quite loud,
upsetting even to the euthanasia technicians, and
further increasing the fear the animals are already
experiencing.

5. Ineffectiveness of the Decompression Chamber

a) Animals sometimes find pockets of oxygen in the chamber

b)

and survive the cycle with internal hemorrhages and-
ather physiological damage.

Kittens and puppies have a higher tolerance to oxygen
deprivation and hence sometimes emerge alive but -
seriously damaged. There are even documented cases of
young animals reviving later on under a pile of dead
animals‘ bodies, while buried, or in the process of
cremation. Animal shelters typically receive large
numbers of puppies and kittens to be euthanized.

6. Inefficiency g; the Decompression Chamber

9)

b)

In spite of the Euthanair Company's claim that it is
possible to euthanize fifty animals an heur in a single
chamber, it is, in fact, a very inefficient method of
euthanasia, assuming that prOper attention is paid to
humane considerations, i.e., not overloading, running
the machine long enough to ensure the death of the
animals, cleaning up the vomit, blood, and feces from
the last batch of euthanized animals, euthanizing g
injured, very sick, old, or vicious animals alone, etc.

According to Phyllis Wright, HSUS Director of Animal,
Sheltering and Control, it is ”mathematically impossible
to euthanize more than sixteen animals per hour humanely."

Ursula Goetz, Director of Shelter Operations at the ASPCA,
states that in their largest shelter, where they utilized
two large chambers and one small one, they were only

able to euthanize fifteen animals per hour. In contrast,
with sodium pentobarbital injections they are now able

to euthanize 40 to 50 animals per hour.

Because many shelters, convinced by Euthanair's adver-
tising, purchase the decompression chamber with the
expectation of being able to euthanize some fifty animals
an hour, there is a strong temptation to overload the
machine, to put incOmpatible animals together, etc., to
speed up the process. There are documented cases of shelter

em loyees stuffing the machine so full of animals that
" ey are like sardines in a can."

5

 




7. Tendency of the Decompression Chamber to Malfunction

a) There is strong evidence to suggest that the decompression
chamber is subject to mechanical problems. It is
‘susceptible to gauge and seal malfunction and may
recompress in the middle of a cycle. What this means
is that animals may come through the cycle alive, to
'suffer excruciating'pain as a result. In 1974 192
euthanasia chambers were inspected by the state of
California and no less than 62% were found to be
inOperable. Moreover, since almost all decompression ..
chambers are manufactured by a single company (Euthanair) -
in California virtually no repair service is available.

There is thus a strong temptation for shelters whose
decompression chamber is not working properly to simply
‘run animals through the cycle as many times as necessary
to kill them, rather than seeking repair or switching
to a different method of euthanasia.

8. Difficulty of Operation

8) Although the basic mechanical functioning of the machine
is simple, the actual process of using it is quite complex,
physically demanding, and time consuming, requiring
a conscientious and properly trained technician. The
October 1964 conference of the American Humane Association
Euthanasia Committee reported that Euthanair operators
Should follow a procedure with no less than thirteen
steps, many with more than one specific action, and
with a set of color codes. The procedure involves separating
hostile, sick, injured,-and aged animals from others,
and checking gauges throughout the cycle.

Such a lengthy and complex procedure invites abuse. There
are no legal requirements for preperly training Operators,
and the inefficiency of the method results in overloading,
failing to properly monitor the cycle, and so on..

9. Additional Disadvantages to the Decompression Chamber

a) Use of the decompression chamber is physically draining
and psychologically traumatic for the euthanasia technicians.

l. The actual process of loading and unloading the machine
is physically strenuous and sometimes dangerous. It
is difficult to load a second or third dog into the
carriage, because the others are usually struggling
to get out. This increases the danger of dog bites.

4

 




The carriage, which is heavy and clumsy, must be

wheeled into the chamber, pulled out and unloaded
afterwards. '

It is visually and emotionally repugnant for employees
to witness the obvious suffering of the animals in
the decompression chamber ~~the gasping for breath,
muscle contractions, facial contortions, howling,
thrashing, and final collapse-- especially those

with respiratory ailments, and to deal with animals
which survive the process and have to be euthanized

a second, or even a third time.

The unloading of the chamber is also an emotionally
distressing experience for employees. Immediately
upon Opening the door one is hit by the putrid odor
of feces, urine, blood, vomit,and body gases, and.
is frequently confronted with the sight of the '
aborted fetuses of pregnant animals, which must be
cleaned out of the chamber after each use.

Many employees also feel that it is dehumanizing and
inhumane to be isolated from the animals precisely

at the moment when they most require comforting and
kindness. ' .

Finally, there is a tendency for those employees who.
remain with their jobs to become desensitized, and
hence less inclined to be conscientious in carrying
out the euthanasia procedure preperly.

The use of the decompression chamber as the sole means of
euthanasia sometimes makes quick emergency euthanasia
impossible. A badly injured animal who should be
euthanized at once might have to wait more than twenty
minutes to be relieved of its suffering.

Animal owners often wish to see and/or bury their pets
after they are euthaniZed. To present an owner with

his pet in the condition in which it emerges from the
decompression chamber is a degrading and horrible
experience both for the shelter personnel and for the
owner, and tends to alienate the public from supporting
the necessary work of humane societies.

Giant breeds such as Great Danes and Saint Bernards
cannot humanely be euthanized in a decompression chamber.

10. There‘Are Practical Alternatives Available for Animal
Euthanasia to Replace the Decompression Chamber

9) Sodium pentobarbital injection compares favorably in cost
to the use of the decompression chamber, is far more
efficient in terms of the number of animals which can be
euthanized, is entirely painless and does not induce

5

 




psychological trauma in the animal if properly
administered, and is effective regardless of the
animal's age or condition.

Carbon monoxide is also a humane method of euthanasia
for animals over six weeks of age if it is used in
liquid form from cylinders, or, if produced in some
other way, it is properly cooled and filtered. _The
potential for abuse here, however, is greater, as

is the health risk for employees. Moreover, carbon
monoxide is not effective for animals under six weeks
of age, and should not be used. For these reasons
carbon monoxide must be regarded as an acceptable, but
less desirable alternative.

Gr

11. Alternative Methods of Euthanasia Are Less Physically and
Psychologically Detrimental to Employees and Encourage
mare humane Treatment of Animals

Direct contact between the euthanasia technician and the
animal at the moment of its death encourages gentle and com-
passionate treatment of animals in general and greater humane
concern for individual animals in particular. The absence of
visually and odOriferously repulsive death scenes contribute
to a more positive and conscientious performance of his task
by the euthanasia technician. His task is physically less
arduous and leaves him more energy for his other work;

12. Ban of the Decompression Chamber

As of August, 1981, the decompression chamber has been banned
in the following 19 states: Arizona, Maine, Massachussetts, \
-Virginia, Maryland, California, Arkansas, Connecticut, Idaho,

‘New York, Tennessee, South Carolina, Nevada, Alaska, Kansas,
Michigan, Ohio, Wyoming, and Oklahoma.

15. The Decompression Chamber 2Q Pennsylvania

Our survey of the methods of euthanasia used in Pennsylvania
indicates that sodium pentobarbital is the most widely used ,
method. The transition from the use of the decompression chamber
to the use of this method state—wide can therefore reasonably
be assumed to be possible without undue difficulty.

 




14. Summary of Conclusions Concerning the Decompression Chamber

Even assuming that:

l. the decompression chamber is functioning correctly
2. the operators are prOperly trained and conscientious
the machine is not overloaded

sick, injured, old, and vicious animals are euthanized
alone ' -

incompatible animals are euthanized separately
puppies and kittens are not euthanized by this method'

animals with respiratory ailments or intestinal
conditions are not euthanized by this method

the Operator takes the time to carefully monitor the
cycle and follow the other steps of proper procedure
ALL Qﬁ WHICH, £3 PRACTICE, ARE OFTEN NOT THE CASE, the use of the
decompression chamber is STILL ﬁg INHUMANE AND TOTALLY UNACCEPTABLE
METHOD OE EUTHANASIA because:

 

 

a) there is strong evidence that even healthy adult animals
suffer severe pain as a result of decompression (cf. #5,
pp. 1-2 above). °

b) some adult animals survive the decompression cycle with
critical injuries no matter how carefully it is monitored
(cf. #5, p. 3 above).

0) the procedure involves definite psychological fear and
trauma for the animals (of. #4, pp. 2-5 above).

d) the inefficiency of the method allows-humane employees
less time to engage in more productive activities:
healthcare, adeptions, etc. (of. #6, p. 5 above).

e) the use of the decompression chamber is physically
draining and psychologically traumatic for employees
(cf. #9, pp. 4—5 above). ‘

f) there are alternatives to the decompression chamber
which are equally satisfactory or preferable in every
respect (of. #10, pp. 5-6). - -

TRANS—SPECIES UNLIMITED THEREFORE URGES YOU TO SUPPORT OUR BILL,
INTRODUCED INTO THE PENNSYLVANIA SENATE BY SENATOR J. DOYLE
CORMAN, TO BAN THE DECOMPRESSION CHAMBER IN PENNSYLVANIA AND

TO REGULATE THE USE OF ALTERNATIVES!

7

 




N.B. This report is for the most part a statement of
conclusions based on our research rather than a
presentation of evidence. Specific sources for
any of the claims made here can and will be
provided upon request. Our chief sources of
information are the following:

"Why the HSUS is Opposed to the Use of the High
Altitude Decompression Chamber for Animal Eutha-
nasia," The Humane Society of the Unitedetates,
September, 1978.

Ibid, revised version, July, 1980.

Personal CorreSpondence, Ursula Goetz, Director,
Shelter Operations, ASPCA, New York, August 19,
1981 (c0py available upon request).

Testimony of Pennsylvania SPCA workers at the
Centre Hall, Pa. branch.

Euthanasia of Dogs and Cats, Institute for the Study
of Animal Problems, August,-1978.

 

 

For further information please contact:

Dr. George P. Cave, President '
Trans—Species Unlimited

P.O. Box 1551

State College, Pa. 16801

814-258-0795

 




 

AT LAST SOME GOOD NEWS.

The three main National Parks in
Uganda continue to be in far better
condition than the Game Reserves,
which have few large mammals to be
seen. Habitat conditions in all Parks
and Reserves are generally good and
offer plenty of food and shelter to the
wildlife that is there, in particular the
rodents and birds which are reportedly
thriving! Ruwenzori National Park
has the best news to offer as elephants
are increasing due to migration from
Zaire. A recent monthly aerial survey
counted 332 elephants compared to
150 a year ago. Kabalega Falls National
Park is still suffering from poaching
by Tanzanian soldiers, of whom there
are currently 19,000 in Uganda. Hope-
fully, their removal from Uganda in
the near future and the presence of
Anti-poaching Units will solve that
problem. The situation in Kidepo
Valley National Park is very bad due
to continuing raids by'Sudanese military
forces, despite complaints at a high
level by Uganda to Sudan. In early
February a heavy battle between Ugan-
dan rangers and Sudanese soldiers
resulted in deaths on both sides. The
aerial survey to assess the condition
and state of wildlife in Kidepo has
been re-scheduled for March.

Various random observations
around Uganda include two groups of

.1

 

 

 

Uganda kob seen beside a track passing
through the beautiful Semliki Game
Reserve, but sadly no mammals at all
were seen on a six day walk and
climbing holiday in the Ruwenzori
Mountains over Christmas. However,
the tremendous mountain scenery, luxu-
riant and unusual vegetation, good
mountain huts, friendly porters and
brilliant weather over this period should
encourage move visitors to the Ru-
wenzoris.

International Aid and Conservation
agencies continue to donate equipment
and support personnel in Uganda’s
Parks, the latest received being a
consignment of 10 Landrovers. The
Wildlife Clubs of Uganda have also
been fortunate in being given transport
in the form of a Suzuki from West
Germany, due to arrive in June, and a
mobile ﬁlm unit due any day from
IUCN/WWF. SWARA is now supplied
free to each of the existing 87 Wildlife
Clubs of Uganda.

In January, 20 teachers attended an
interesting and stimulating 5-day Semi-
nar organised by the Wildlife Clubs at
Mwea in Ruwenzori Park. This was
opened by the Minister of Wildlife and
Tourism with lectures from staff of the
Institute of Ecology, AWLF, IUCN
and one representative from the Wild-
life Clubs of Kenya. Charles Birigenda,
the current WCU Organiser is to
depart to Canada later this year to
attend a two year course. His replace-
ment has already been selected for his
experience as a teacher and enthusiasm
for wildlife conservation.

European Black Stork (Ciconia nigra).

.._..... .......... _. MW... ,... M, ... .
. '-" . . .>‘-:~,;.,-,{g. '25

A i John Reymrikéldg

4. -.‘;;.'L Lug:

-. +1-
I

(Lb-Ex €I-$--i_§iii:'.=.-._ . .-.;
"*- \ ~ .. ‘-::?l:2§-3;5:35-3-:;:-:-.‘::;:._
E 4

' '1‘.

Lﬁwﬁt ,,
' ‘I I I I l I I I l::::.l:.. I-:' I‘-
. I '5,- I It‘- Il- I:.l I I l I I I I+E\~‘.::.A.’.:I:I: ‘I R

 

TIME FOR ACTION.

As we enter this decade, grim
predictions by the United Nations
about the deteriorating quality of life
an increasing number of people can
expect by the year 2000 should spur
Governments and individuals into real
action, instead of only lip-service. By
2000 AD, the world's population will
have increased by more than 50°/o
from 4 billion to 6.35 billion. More
people will starve and there will be ever
increasing losses of farmland, grassland,
forests and decreasing supplies of fresh
water, timber and ﬁsh. At the present
rate, by the year 2000 about 40°/o of
remaining forest cover will have gone
and between %——2 million plant and
animal species will have become extinct.

STORKS AND SAKER FALCONS.
We all know about the illegal trade

in rhino horn, elephant ivory, spotted

cat skins, turtle shells and crocodile

hides, but few people are aware of the//

trade in birds———dead or alive.

Last year, thousands of mgrgaﬁtding.
storks from Soughernﬂﬂﬁaa were
”eagerlY"“a‘w"ait€d”in Eastern European
villages, but did not reach their destin-

ation. The were massacred in LChﬂJlQIL.
where their bodies were dlscarded and

their beaks collected, although for
what purpose is not clear. Last week I
saw a European Black Stork on a dam
in Nairobi National Park and I wonder
how he will fareon his journey to his
breeding quarters in a week or two?

West German Customs Ofﬁcials
are to be congratulated for detecting
incorrect documentation accompanying
four Saker Falcons arriving from Abu
Dhabi. These rare birds of prey can
only be exported or imported under
strict conditions which were not met
in this case. It was fairly clear that
their export from Abu Dhabi was
illegal and their import into Germany
would have also been against the
CITES regulations. As a result, the
four birds were placed in the care of
the Frankfurt Zoological Society, who
are soon to release them into the wilds
of Israel, not far from their native
Syria.

\

4

 




Global Tomorrow'Coalition, Inc.
POPULATION — RESOURCES —- ENVIRONMENT

' 1525 NEW HAMPSHIRE AVENUE, N. W.
3RD FLOOR
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20036
(202) 328-8222

Task Force Chairperson

 

 

Biological Diversity Faith Campbell
NRDC
1725 Eye Street, NW
Washington, DC 20006
(202) 223—8210

Information and Education Cynthia Green
Action for World Development
1120 19th Street, NW
Washington, DC 20006
(202) 659—1833

National Foresight Capacity Peters Willson
Alan Guttmacher Institute
1220 19th Street, NW
Washington, DC 20015
(202) 296—4012

Pollution Khristine L. Hall
Environmental Defense Fund
1525 18th Street, NW
Washington, DC 20009
(202) 833-1484

POPulation Carole Baker
Zero Population Growth
1346 Connecticut Avenue, NW
Washington, DC 20036

Tropical Forests Thomas B. Stoel, Jr.
Natural Resources Defense
Council
1725 Eye Street, NW
Washington, DC 20006

Coastal & Marine ' Clif Curtis
Center for Law and Social
Policy
1751 N Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20036
(202)872—0670

 

 




Global Tomorrow Coalition, Inc.
POPULATION — RESOURCES -- ENVIRONMENT

1525 NEW HAMPSHIRE AVENUE, N. W.
3RD FLOOR
WASHINGTON. D. C. 20036
(202) 328-8222

STEERING COMMITTEE

 

Robert Cahn
AUDUBON Magazine
Route 3, Box 316
Leesburg, VA 22075

Burks Lapham

Concern, Inc.

1794 Columbia Road
Washington, DC 20009

Peters D. Willson

Alan Guttmacher Institute
1220 - 19th Street, N.W.
Washington, DC 20036

OFFICERS

Russell W. Peterson
Audubon Society
950 Third Avenue
New York, N.Y. 10022

Thomas B. Stoel, Jr.

Natural Resources Defense
Council

1725 Eye Street, N.W.

Washington, D.C. 20006

Cynthia P. Green

Population Crisis Committee/
Action for World Development

1120 - 19th Street, N.W.

Washington, D.C. 20036

Cathryn D. Scoville
International Institute for
Environment and Development
1319 F Street, N.Ws
Washington, D.C. 20036

Louis S. Clapper

National Wildlife Federation
1412 - 16th Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20036

Carole L. Baker

Zero Population Growth
1346 Connecticut AVe., NW
Washington, DC 20036

Donald R. Lesh

(also includes all officers)

(703)435—2433

(202)328—8160

(202)296-4012

Board Chair
(212)832—3200

President
(202)223—8210

First Vice President
(202)659—1833

Second Vice President
(202)462—0900

Vice President and Secretary
(202)797—6800

Vice President and Treasurer
(202)785-0100

Executive Director

 




The Global Tomorrow Coalition

The Global Tomorrow Coalition, encompassing 49 private organizations, is
concerned with promoting public awareness of issues affecting global stability and
long-term sustainability, with emphasis on the worldwide impact of pOpulation growth,
resource consumption and environmental degradation on individual well-being and
national security. Through its outreach to member organizations and other citizen
groups and through contact with key opinion leaders, including journalists,
policymakers and government officials, the Coalition seeks to create an understanding
of the implications of population, resource and environmental trends for global
stability and to promote adoption of policies and programs responsive to these trends.

The Coalition's member organizations, representing more than 5 million
Americans, cover a broad diversity of interests, including: natural resources, health,
environmental policies, preservation of wilderness and coastal areas, animal welfare,
national and international population planning, wildlife conservation, international
development, and endangered species.

Initially formed in October 1980, the Coalition received its impetus from a series
of expert studies issued during 1980 which focused on these issues, including: the
Global 2000 Report, the North-South Report of the Brandt Commission, the World
Development Report, 1980 of the World Bank, and the World Conservation Strategy.
All of these studies point to widespread human suffering, social disruption and political
turmoil if current trends in p0pulation growth, resource and energy consumption, and
environmental stress continue unchanged. Concerned about these findings and their
implications, representatives of a broad spectrum of organizations began meeting
regularly to discuss the need for greater attention to issues affecting global stability.

 

 

 

 

Between the initial meeting in October 1980 and the first meeting of the
Coalition's Board of Directors in May 1981, more than 60 organizations and dozens of
unaffiliated individuals have attended nearly 20 regular public meetings to discuss
current issues and the formation of a coalition. The momentum of their work was
given an invaluable boost by the Leadership Conference on Population, Resources and
Environment, organized by the National Audubon Society and held in Washington, D.C.
in January 1981. -

The Coalition has been created through the active support and participation of
literally dozens of people. Regular meetings among Washington-D.C. activists have
provided a valuable mechanism for sharing information on various activities and for
coordinating efforts to promote global stability issues through media outreach, in-
‘school education programs, conferences, exhibits, and liaison with private organi-
zations, government agencies and policymakers. Task Forces on various issues and
activities have been established to provide an organizational framework for
coordinating the work of Coalition volunteers . Of the 11 Task Forces organized,
five have held regular meetings: Biological Diversity , Information and Educa-
tion, Pollution, Population and National Foresight Capacity . Task Force rosters:
include as many as 40 people, many of them participating as individuals rather
than as organizational representatives . r

The primary purpose of the Coalition is to encourage action by its member
organizations; it will only take positions on substantive issues when there is unanimous

(over)

 




agreement among its members. The Coalition's policy and program directions are set
by a Board'of Directors consisting of representatives from each of its member
organizations. A small Steering Committee is responsible for overseeing the day-to-
day operations of the Coalition and ensuring that Board directives are implemented
effectively and efficiently. The work of the Coalition is directed and coordinated by a
small staff, consisting of an executive director and an administrative assistant; it is
expected that the staff will remain small and will receive extensive assistance from
its member organizations. Major program initiatives and implementation will continue
to be the responsibility of the various Task Forces. Regular information-sharing

meetings of Coalition members and interested individuals will continue to be held in
Washington, D.C.

 




.~—" 3. g o

ii i .i. ‘
4v KJ JJ E. k V’ ‘-J.'"
0

lb

,1
-,~ in
'1.
P
g,

‘3 T’F‘ V 0131“ HR, T1 1’“ch 85(1ij
i hated $1 million in illegal
cgr‘» ed ivory art objects will
- :1 a3 ed at the Los Angeles Zoo
' -r.ternati0nal Airport as remin-
of the evils of killing endan-
‘ sp eeies, a judge ruled Thurs-
se intencmg a loc a1 art dealer.
or Court Judge Pro Tem
avid-e also {.1863 Stanley
003. 0. cerec h: m to pa} an
S3, 030 Lenard the con-
.1: ' .-0f 1.. two displays and fi-
“ rtq aired him to pay 31.500 to-
a national advertising cam-
aimed at protecting ele—

“1

{J
1!)
r4

f ’ T‘ .l‘.
f}

A? (/1 ‘
i C.” O E)
.3 :1

.“i

3

,1)
y...‘
L—n—r‘
4 (

1:1:1‘0

a!

The forfeiture of the ivory to the
cit3 plus the additional penalties
were incluc ed in a plea bar gain

aehed beteeen 3.5asr3 and C)the

attcr'iey‘s office. Under terms

‘ eementJ iasr3 pleaded no

to two misdemeanor
iolating the 1977 Cali-
'ige:ed Species Act.
ou.1ts were dismissed as
ch rge against Masry

115.
arles hamosh.

,_ . . had oeen pre-

pared tot O‘tI'ial 11 he had

not agreed to ther te rms of the plea

i‘zargair. Conviction 0n the 11 orig—

inal charges could have brought

imisirnum fines of 85.000 and a sut-
" .‘on h 1ate'n'1 on each count.

iztd the l\ or} art objects

aln e3 Gall ries on

an undercover im esti-

t. e sale of importedrivo-

l‘ery. Stanley Galleries

located in the Hilton Hotel on

V- i s”: -ir eBoulet ard.

Gr 03 eman s aid the lviasry did not
produce proof that the objects——
which included a $30,000 chess set,
pagodas, elephant tusks, rings,
statues and small figurines—had

een imported into the United
” prior to the 1977 enactment
the state’s endangered species

'.." n si-id p.

‘-.
an- \_

9

Bil-.G: c ernan said imestigat rs
at the Man Hing lto ory

1\ew York had

th
Corp. in
al ivory items to ‘tfas-
some as recently as
rHing . as other of—

I..-.I |
1

i 0

\.

H“ r' "r

.“ L '. . '. ..-. ,
‘;. 0. t1ie130r311erns Merci pro-

- '7’. ' .- .-
.r‘; 2--.ng hoig G 0er an

i ,. - .
3. 5 1
.. ‘~ 2‘

Writer

Estimated Value!

7 An exact value of the 104 lots of
ivory art objects was never deter—
mined. but prosecutors who had
earlier estimated the seizure at
$700 030 now say the ivory is worth
at least $1 million.

The citys Rec reation and Pa as
Departments i assume control of
the 1101'» and ethe 3.030 to help
purer .ase and et up displays sat the

2.300 and the eairport Within the next
su. months Crmeman sale the d15-
plays Mill include photographs gra-
phica‘ily p . tray'ing thes slaughter of
seve. al endangered species for their
skins or in the case of elephants,
their tusks.

The city has prosecuted a number .
of endangered species cases but the
Masr3 seizure is considered by
prosecutors to be the most signifi-
cantone.

Other items that may be placed in
the displays are elephant ear boots.
stuffed ocelot kittens. snakeskin
boots and spotted leopard35lzin
coats. One major concern is protect—
ing the displayed items from theft.
Groyeman said.

Airp ortSelection

The airport was chosen as the site
for or e of the display s because city
officials hope to teach ‘ isitors to
Los Angeles about the importance
of prot cting the endangered spe-
cies Groieman said thatio eign vi-
sitors to Los Angeles comi. 1g for the
1984 Olympics would be a major
target of the campaign.

“We know that in Kenya in the
’70s the country lost half of its ele-
phant population for tusl:s,” Grove-
man said. In 10 years, he added,
Uganda’s 8,000 elephants were
wiped out.

Some of the pieces seized from
Masry's gallery were retailing at
$50 030 each. Groyeman said.

Was: 3( uld not be reached about
the p ea bar ga n but h s attorney,
Hem ard Gill.ngham said .‘Jasry was
"humiliated by the p.1biicit3' gm en
to the July 1 seizures. He sai ‘ fasr3
had been reluctant to go to court
and fng t the mudtmeano c .arg es

:'the e mense .‘mo lied
' Masry sill has
1156 Hl' :th i IiOL C‘I.

 




SOCIETY FORAANIMAL PROTECTIVE LEGISLATION
P. O. Box 3719
Georgetown Station
Washington, DC. 20007
(202) 337-2334

October 1, 1981

GOOD NEWS :

To Humanitarians:

Congressman Doug Walgren (D,PA), Chairman of the Subcommittee
on Science, Research, and Technology, has scheduled hearings on all
seven bills relating to the treatment of laboratory animals and
alternatives to their use. The hearings, which are open to the

public, will take place October 13 and 14 in Room.2513. Rayburn
House Office Building, beginning at 9:30 a.m. In case of a change
of location, check with the guard at the entrance to the building.

Please write £2 Chairman Walgren thanking him for scheduling
the hearings and urging him E2 report out effective legislation to
require careful consideration 9: each plan 2; protocol 53 use exper-
imental animals in_order E2 prevent suffering to the greatest ex-
tent possible. HR 4406 introduced by Congresswoman Pat Schroeder
(D,C0), would amend the Animal Welfare Act for this purpose and
would establish a committee including representatives from animal
welfare organizations and the public at large, as well as scientists,
veterinarians, and medical doctors to advise the Secretary of Agri-
culture in administration of the law. The other bills pending be—
fore the Subcommittee are all designed to advance development and
use of alternatives to laboratory animals. Please let Chairman
Walgren know that you are looking to him to synthesize this expres»
sion of the public will to reduce the numbers of animals used for
painful tests in this country. The United States uses more labora-
tory animals than any other country in the world. It is incumbent
upon us to reduce these numbers, and most of all, to curb the pain
and distress inflicted on a large proportion of these animals.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Letters to other members of the subcommittee will be helpful,
too, both before and after the hearings. It's especially important
to write to any from your own state. Please let us know what res-
ponses you receive.

 




SUBCOMMITTEE ON SCIENCE, RESEARCH, AND TECHNOLOGY

 

 

Democrats Republicans
Hon. Doug Walgren, PA, Chairman Hon. Margaret M. Heckler, MA
Hon. George E. Brown, Jr., CA Hon. Vin Weber, MN
Hon. Mervyn M. Dymally, CA Hon. Judd Gregg, NH
Hon. Bob Shamansky, 0H Hon. Joe Skeen, NM
Hon. Stanley N. Lundine, NY Hon. Edwin B. Forsythe, NJ

Hon. Allen E. Ertel, PA
Hon. Ralph M. Hall, TX
Hon. Dave McCurdy, OK

ALL REPRESENTATIVES MAY BE ADDRESSED AT THE HOUSE OFFICE BUILD-
ING, WASHINGTON, D.C. 20515

Progress Report 9g Other gills

The Lacey Agt Amendments to deter smugglers and poachers have
passed the Senate and cleared the House Committees. A vote on the
House floor is expected soon.

The Marine Mammal grotection Ag§,reauthorization passed the House
of Representatives unanimously on September 24th and the Senate on
September 29th. With the help of your many letters, a three-
year reauthorization was secured, and no major weakening amendments
were adopted. Many changes in language were made in the course of
the lengthy negotiations. and it remains to be seen how these will
be interpreted. We will keep a close eye on this.

Wildlife law enforcement appropriations were increased in the
House, and we hope they will be maintained in conference with the
Senate.

No action has been taken since our last letter on Senator Duren-
burger's g, Res §§_urging government agencies §g_develop §g_a1terna-
tive tg_thg Draize eye-irritation test and additional co-sponsors are
still needed. Congressman Andrew Jacobs' (D,IN) corresponding g, 922,
ggg, 21 is one of the bills being considered at the October hearings.

Congressman Clarence Long's (D,MD) 53 374 39 restrict steel jaw
leghold traps is still pending in Committee. Trappers are constantly

lobbying against the bill. That means humanitarians need to write
more letters to Chairman Henry Waxman (D,CA, Chairman of the Sub-
committee on Health and the Environment, asking for hearings. Please
urge your gwg Representative tg_co-sponsor §§_§13, too.

 




-3-

SCHWEITZER.MEDAL CEREMONY. Our companion organization, the Animal
Welfare Institute, presents the Albert Schweitzer Medal for outstand-
ing humane achievement. The 1981 medal is to be awarded to Dr. Dallas
Pratt, author of the pioneering book, "Alternatives to Pain in Experi-
ments on Animals." Senator Mark Hatfield (R,OR), one of the U.S.
Senate's most humane members, will make the presentation. Senator
Hatfield is Chairman of the Senate Appropriations Committee.

If you are in or near Washington October 15th, you are cordially
invited to attend the ceremony which is scheduled to take place on
that day at 4:00 P.M. in the Senate Caucus Room, 318 Russell Senate
Office Building. A reception will follow the presentation.

We look forward to seeing you at the hearings or the ceremony
or both. If you yourself suffer in thinking of the animals in la-
boratories, tens of thousands of them, this Octdber is a time of
great import, a time when humanitarians must persuade the Congress
to demand action by the government agencies that use animals and
fund experiments throughout the nation as does the National Insti~
tutes of Health, and the agency authorized to inspect laboratories,
the U.S. Department of Agriculture. Both have failed grievously
in their responsibilities to prevent needless suffering. This must
be changed, and you can help change it.

Sincerely,

‘)Z¢LILUZLA-4 ‘ﬂgJvaLLAZLVc-u~&#a

Madeleine Bemelmans
President

(ma’jéwL

Christine Stevens
Secretary

P.S. The enclosed envelope has two purposes: 1) Please be sure
.39 L gwgg know whether or not you want your name kept on the
list to receive circular letters on bills to protect animals.
The change~over to a computer list is imminent. If you write
letters to help animals wg_want to keep ygg 2g 23; list whether
or not you contribute to the SAPL. Letters make the difference
.ig getting needed laws passed. 2) If you would like to send
a donation we will be very grateful. Much of our work is done
by volunteers, but we must pay the mailing service; we must
provide the best authentic information to Congress in order to
get the desperately needed action for animals. But donations
are not deductible in computing income tax. so we need many
contributions to make up for the lack of large ones.

 




FOR YOUR INFORMATION 3

This case is proceeding through the courts.
the Director of the laboratory and an assistant were charged
with 15 counts of cruelty to the monkeys under the Maryland

anti-cruelty law.

On September 28th

It is painfully obvious that federal law

regulating animal experiments must be more stringently written
and more vigorously enforced.

. "“‘llllllillillllllilllil

:.\\\. .\\. RSV”:

; s‘uupps - uowuw

El Paso Herald-Post

El Paso, Texas, Saturday, September 12, 1981

J Monkeys seized in raid
on research institute

By ANN McFEATTERS
Scripps-Howard Staff Writer

SILVER SPRING, Md. - In a raid as tense as
any drug bust. police seized 17 monkeys from a
federally funded research center in this Wash-
ington suburb to investigate charges the animals
have been cruelly abused.

Veterinarians, primatologists and a volunteer
employee at the center swore the monkeys were
treated so badly some chewed off their fingers
out of stress. The witnesses said the monkeys
were housed in dirty, rusty, rat-ridden cages, their
food thrown into urine trays. Some witnesses said
they saw dried blood on restraining chairs in which
the monkeys were tied.

IN THIS CASE, believed to be the first of its kind
involving a research center funded partially with
taxpayers’ dollars, police Friday took the animals
from the Behavioral Biology Center of the Institute
for Behavioral Research. The center receives at
least $60,000 a year from the National Institutes of
Health. It has been in operation for about 22
years. .

The director of the center. Dr. Edward Taub, said
he was “surprised, distressed and shocked” at the
appearance of police, animal rescue workers and a

number of animal welfare lobbyists at his center.

As workers With People for the Ethical Treat-
ment of Animals transferred monkeys from the
center to cages in a truck, Taub protested his
research has been damaged.

THE CENTER has been severing portions of the

spinal cords of monkeys to see how many functions
they can be taught to do without feeling. Taub
said the research has been useful in the rehabilita-
tion of stroke victims. Other labs around the coun-
try are doing similar research. he said.
' The case came to the attention of local and state
officials when a volunteer employee. Alex Pacheco.
complained the monkeys were being tormented and
maltreated and had not been attended by a veter-
inarian in at leaSt four months. Pacheco went to
an animal welfare group. which lined up experts to
secretly inspect the center at night and take photo-
graphic evidence.

The police acted under a state law which forbids
cruelty to animals. Maryland is one of only 14 states
which do not exempt research centers from such
statutes. Animal welfare groups, including workers
at the Humane Society of the United States. say
the center also is violating the federal Animal Wel-
fare Act.

 

 

Photo by upl
One of t7 monkeys seized in raid
Witnesses swore animals had. been abused

 




 
  

   
   
  
    
   
  
 
 
 
  
   
   
     
    
  
    
   
 
   
    

1)

2)

3)

 
 
   
  
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
 

ACTION IN THE FEDERAL REGISTER ** Monitor Meeting ** 19 Oct. 1981

PERMIT APPLICATIONS

Jeffrey H. Gee Permit No. PRT2-8514

Troy, Michigan F.R. 10/9/81, p. 50156
Comments due 11/9/81 to:
Wildlife Permit Office,

U.S.F.W.S.
P.0. Box 3654, Arlington, VA 22203
Request: to purchase in interstate commerce two margays (Felis

weidii) from Mr. Michael Jacobson, Tucson, Arizona,
for enhancement of propagation ”

Marvin Schwilling Permit No. PRT2—8512
Kansas Fish and Game F.R. same as above

Emporia, Kansas

Request: to collect a limited number of gray bats (M otis

griesescens) to conduct a study on the organoch orine
content of—bats in the Pittsburg, Kansas, region

Univ. of Colorado Museum Permit No. PRT2—8500
Boulder, CO F.R. same as above

Request: to export and reimport dead museum specimens of

endangered wildlife to lend specimens to foreign
institutions for scientific research

PERMIT ISSUANCE

On 9 October 1981, the National Marine Fisheries Service issued
a Scientific Research permit to Drs. Buchwald and Shipley, Depts.
of Physiology, Psychology and Brain Research Institutes, Univ. of

California, Los Angeles, to take by marking sixty Northern elephant
seals. F.R. 10/15/81, p. 50818.

PERMIT MODIFICATION

Permit No. 305 issued to the State of Washington, Dept. of Game,
53 Portway Street, Astoria, Oregon 97103 on Oct. 10, 1980, as
modified on 16 March 1981 and 12 May 1981 is modified again to
allow the restraining, blood sampling, marking and tagging with
pelage dye and flipper tags of one hundred Pacific harbor seals.

Of these seventy adult seals may be instrumented with radio
transmitters. F.R. 10/15/81, p. 50818.

NOTICE

The Fish and Wildlife Service announces the availability of the
official report of the U.S. Representative to the Third Regular
Meeting of the Convention of the Parties to the Convention on
International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora
(CITES) and publishes a summary of resolutions adopted by the
Conference which may bear directly on the conditions of international
trade in specimens of species controlled by the Convention.

Copies may be requested from: U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service,
Wildlife Permit Office, Washington, D.C. 20240. F.R. 9/15/81, p. 45821.

 

 

 

 




U)
G
O
0:
CO
'53.
Q.)
a:
'U
E:
m
a
.E.’
:1
m
\
,4
w
O}
f4
«a?
l"
‘I-a
Q)
.0
O
0.:
0
0
>2
G3
'0
{13
(D
C.
"d
é’
\
co
0')
ﬂ
:5
Z
«5
Q‘
’5
>
\
In
.2
.2
DO
6)
p:
7.3
I-
Q
'C
4)
II-

50774

 

 

Export of Bobcat, Lynx, River Otter.
Alaskan GrayWoli. Alaskan Brown
Bear. American Alligator. and
American Ginseng Taken in 1981-82 ’
Season

AGENCY: Fish and Wildlife Service.
Interior.

ACTION: Final ﬁndings and rule.

 

SUMMARY: The Convention on
International Trade in Endangered
Species of Wild Fauna and Flora
(CITES) is a treaty regulating the
international shipment of certain
wildlife and plant species. Exports of ,
wildlife or plants listed in Appendix II of
CITES may occur if a Scientiﬁc
Authority has advised a permit-issuing
Management Authority that such
exports will not be detrimental to the
survival of the species. and if a
Management Authority is satisﬁed that
the wildlife or plants were not obtained
in violation of laws for their protection.
This notice announces ﬁnal ﬁndings
by the Scientiﬁc and Management
Authorities for the United States
concerning the export of certain
Appendix II species native to this
country. These are ﬁnal determinations
on the export of specimens taken in the
1981—82 harvest season. Such ﬁndings
are made annually on a state-by-state
basis.
DATE: These ﬁndings are effective for all
species except bobcat on October 14.
1981. Effectiveness of the bobcat
ﬁndings is delayed at least 60 days so
that the Service may seek vacation of
the injunction issued by the United
States District Court for the District of -
Columbia prohibiting the Service from
authorizing export of bobcat until it
promulgates new guidelines and makes
ﬁndings on the basis for those
guidelines.
ADDRESS: Please send correspondence
concerning this notice to the Ofﬁce of
the Scientiﬁc Authority. US. Fish and
Wildlife Service. Washington. DC.
20240. Materials received will be
available for public inspection from 7:45
am. to 4:15 pm. Monday through
Friday. at the Ofﬁce of the Scientiﬁc
Authority. room 536. 1717 H Street. NW..
W'ashington. DC. or at the Federal
Wildlife Permit Ofﬁce. room 621.1000 N.
Giebe Road. Arlington. Virginia.

Export Approval

The Service approves exports of these
species lawfully taken during the 1981—
82 season in the following states. on the
grounds that both Scientiﬁc Authority

' and Management Authority criteria

have been met:

Bobcat—Alabama. Arizona. Arkansas.
California. Colorado. Florida.‘Georgia. Idaho.
Kansas. Louisiana. Maine. Massachusetts.
Michigan. Minnesota. Mississippi. Missouri.
Montana. Nebraska. Nevada. New
Hampshire. New Mexico. New York. North
Carolina. Oklahoma. Oregon. South Carolina.
Tennessee, Utah. Texas. Vermont. Virginia.
Washington. West Virginia. Wisconsin.
Wyoming, Klamath Tribe. Navajo Nation.

, Lynx—Alaska. Idaho. Minnesota. Montana.
Washington.

_ River otters—Alabama. Alaska. Arizona.
Connecticut. Delaware. Florida. Georgia.
Louisiana. Maine. Maryland. Massachusetts.
Michigan. Minnesota. Mississippi. Montana.
New Hampshire. New York. North Carolina.
Oregon. South Carolina. Vermont. Virginia.
Washington. \‘Visconsin.

Alaskan gray wolf—Alaska.

Alaskan brown bear—Alaska.

American alligator-u-Florida and Louisiana.
American ginseng—Arkansas. Georgia.

. Illinois. Indiana. Iowa. Kentucky. Maryland.
Minnesota. Missouri. North Carolina. Ohio.
Tennessee. Vermont (artiﬁcially propagated

ginseng only). Virginia. West Virginia. and
Wisconsin. ’ .

The Service does not grant general
approval for exports of these species
taken from any other state during the
1981-82 season. Two states provided
information that did not meet the
Service's Scientiﬁc Authority criteria:
North Dakota for bobcat and New York
for ginseng. In the case of North Dakota.
the state provided no bobcat population

‘ estimate. there has been a decrease in

harvest. and age ratios indicate that too
many adults are being removed from the
population.

In the case of New York. there has
been a substantial reduction in
historical range and decline in
populations of wild ginseng. including
many countrywide extirpations. and
there are no substantive data on current
population status and trends.

For all other states not named above.
either the taking of these species is not
allowed by the state during the 1981—82
season. the species do not occur in the
state. or the state did not provide the
Service with information on which to
base Scientiﬁc Authority and ‘»
Management Authority ﬁndings. The
Service does not grant general approval

for international export of these species
from such states.

PART 23-—-ENDANGERED SPECIES
CONVENTION

Subpart F—Export of Certain Species

1. In § 23.51. add new paragraph (d) as
follows: I

§ 23.51 American ginseng (Panax
quinqueiollus).

I O O O C

(d) 1.981 Harvest.- Arkansas, Georgia.
Illinois. Indiana. Iowa. Kentucky.
Maryland, Minnesota, Missouri. North
Carolina. Ohio, Tennessee. Vermont
(artiﬁcially propagated ginseng only). .
Virginia. West Virginia. Wisconsin.

Condition on ﬁndings: Roots must be
documented as to state of origin and seasOn
of collecting. Wild and cultivated roots must

be certiﬁed by the state as legally collected
and such certiﬁcation must be presented

upon export. Vermont Is approved for export
of artiﬁcially propagated ginseng roots only.

2. In § 23.52. add new paragraph (e) as
follows: "

§ 23.52 Bobcat (Lynx ru'fus).

(e) 1961-82 Harvest: Alabama.
Arizona. Arkansas. California. —
Colorado. Florida. Georgia. Idaho.
Kansas. LouisianaLMaine.

Massachusetts. Michigan. Minnesota.
Mississippi. Missouri. Montana.
Nebraska. Nevada. New Hampshire.
New Mexico. New York. North Carolina.
Oklahoma. Oregon. South Carolina.
Tennessee. Texas. Utah. Vermont.
Virginia. Washington. West Virginia.
Wisconsin. Wyoming. Klamath Tribe.
Navajo Nation. ,.

Condition on ﬁndings: Felts must be clearly
identiﬁed as to state of origin and season of
taking. including tagging according to
conditions established by the Service. The
States of Nebraska. New Mexico. North
Carolina. and Utah should not exceed their
harvest level objectives for the 1981—82
season.

3. In § 23.53. add new paragraph (e) as
foUows:

§ 23.53 River otter (Lutra canadensis).

O I I O C

(e) 1981-82 Harvest: Alabama.
Alaska. Arkansas. Connecticut.
Delaware. Florida. Georgia. Louisiana.
Maine. Maryland. Massachusetts.
Michigan. Minnesota. Mississippi,
Montana. New Hampshire. New York.
North Carolina. Oregon. South Carolir
Vermont. Virginia. Washington,
Wisconsin.

Condition on ﬁndings: Felts must be cle
identiﬁed as to state of origin and season .
taking. including tagging according to
conditions established by the Service.

4. In § 23.54. add new paragraph (e ‘,
follows:
§23.S4 Lynx (Lynx canadensis).

O O O O 0
(8) 1981-82 Harvest: Alaska. Idah
Minnesota. Montana. Washington.
Condition on ﬁndings: Felts must be cl;
identiﬁed as to state of origin and season
taking, including tagging according to
conditions established by the Senice.
5. In § 23.55. add new paragraph [e3
follows:
§ 23.55 Gray wolf (Canis lupus).

O O O O i

(e) 1981—82 Harvest: Alaska.

Condition on ﬁndings: Felts must be tag.
as required by the State of Alaska. .

6. In § 23.50. add new paragraph (e)
follows:

§ 23.55 Brown bear (Ursus arctos).

O O O O 0

(e) 1981—82 Harvest: Alaska.

Condition on ﬁndings: Felts must be tagg'
as required by the State ofAlaska.

7. In § 23.57. add new paragraph (c)
follows:

§ 23.57 American alligator (Alligator
misslssippiensis).

Q i t O D

[c] 1981—82 Harvest: Florida.
Louisiana.

 




hearsay; 01mm 1931

ms WASHINGTON rosr

a complete
~"early tenure-l asst-1 interiiii secretary.

By Bill Prochnau 5
- MWnPcs'tsisn Writer '

He has become the black-knight 7

darling of Doonesbury, a regular in

~ Johnny Carson’ s monologues and _.
the favorite bad-guy caricature of .
‘ editorial cartoonists from coast to
_'cosst. ‘

His reputation, deserved or not, as

a man Who would make Bambi a ,

trophy On his ofﬁce wall, has
spailmed a cottage industry for his

opponents, who churn out T shirts ‘

and bumper stickers emblazoned:

“Watt? Me Worry?” ;
I But if Interior Secretary James G. 7
Watt; the most controversial mem- I
bar of President Reagan’ s Cabinet,
z'has envirOnmentalists worried, he 13
. ibscbming the toast of another group:
jRepublican money raisers taking

aim on next yssr ’s congressional
elections.

Some GOP money men say Watt
is the best fund- -raising draw they
have, other than Reagan. And one of
his top aides cohfirnied yesterday
that Watt will spend more time out

‘ raising Republican campaign ‘money
than he will in his Interior Depart-

ment ofﬁce the rest of this year. _
Doug Baldwin, Watts assistant

secretary for public affairs, said

Watt has fund- raising appearances

scheduled in North and South Da-

kota, California, New Mexico, South

Carolina and Louisiana in the next

month. Baldwin also said Wdtt is
spending two or' three nights a Week
at fundraisers here} "- ‘

Watts heavy politital sclie‘dule 13
item his

For alniost six monﬂu, Watt" tinned

down all out-of-town speaking en-
gagements as he attempted to put

” his own, controversial stamp on the
' Interior Department. '

His early actions drew strong fire
from environmentalists, but also ap-

. parently set the stage for his new
. role as a GOP hero on the rubber-
. chicken circuit.

' “Frankly, we’re delighted every
time every time Doonesbury comes

' out and hits him, again,” Baldwin
' said. “It’s making him a folk hero.”

Watt, obviously, is not a folk hero

with all the folks But his outspoken

policies on the develOpment of the

nation’ s natural resources place him
in the middle of one of the biggest
' money games in America. That ap-

*parently is paying off at political

«dinners. 1
A1‘ ' ‘ ' for the Republican
.. Natasha! Cmmittee an was has

raised more than $400, 000 for the
committee in the last six wash and
that he is a “tremendous draw, one
of our top requests” from office-
seekers. ,

Republican polls are showing that
Watt’s cembative flair cuts both
ways politically, polarizing groups
into strong support and strong op-
position. It’s the strong support that
has Watt packing them in at Repub
lican fund raisers, just as the strong
opposition will pack Washington
with environmentalists next week.

In an assault organized almOst
like a Vietnam war prowst, environ-
mentalists from 50 states are to
storm Washington with a million
signatures on Sierra Club petitions
asking Reagan to ﬁre Watt.

:2 Watt emergence as a drawing

.. at Republican hind—raising
functiOns came during a month long,

late-summer western trip Watt de-
signedtoshoreuphisimsgeata
time when it seemed most tattered.

At the time, some of Watt’s pol-
icies were being revised rapidly in
response to heat in the courts and in
political circles.

He was embroiled in nasty battles

with House Democratic leaders and

was trying to calm down California
Republicans worried about his off-

‘ shore oil- drilling policies. Rumors
.» circulated that the White House was

warning him to back off, especially

' with the 1982 electioiis nearing. v .
In his native Roclnr Mountain
~West, however, Watt mixed scenic

tours of national parks with hard
5olitics at fundraisers in Montana,
Idaho, Arizona and New Mex-

1100110081 politicians estimated that

the Watt appearances added 15 to

20psrcsnttothesxpcctsdtah
SmMWatthumm
MuyhndsndPe'"? .0101

plane a mot tourism mm
monthzwvml said the pellet-4hr
‘ least halﬁWatts timegoing 6
ey-ralsiigior the rest of. the 3&1
“A will continue after a short lulllé'llre
.rﬁhe ' . . season moves Minn

* 171,91 Watt addrsssed~35000
' regular ” ublican donors staidtn
"filer mlmg Beach, in Califomu a
- state where Repubhtans W
"fmore weaned abouthim thanwe‘nt
mg him” months ago. 3" -.
“Theme raising a lot of motley
out ofm Watts” Baldwin siiIWof
f the entlihnmentahsts He did not
‘ ﬁnd it »
“Johnny Carson ﬁscaqd
to be Mist bushing ‘ wind

 

Who’s Guarding
the Hen House?

 

AP Lamond.
INTERIOR Secretary James Walt poses with
stuffed lox presented to him by outdoor wril-
ers al convention in Louisville. He told them
he plans to ease enforcement of federal strip-
mining law.

 




Sierra Club National News Report
6 October 1981

As James Watt wended his way through the western states last month, he offered his

opinion on a variety of subjects concerning the nation's vast public domain. A few
words from the secretary:

_THEM'S FIGHTIN' WORDS, COWBOY

0 "I've got one problem...liberals. The House Interior Committee is stacked with
Eastern liberals who don't believe in investing in the land," he told a Republican
Trunk & Tusk dinner in Tucson, Arizona.

0 To interviewers from an Arizona newspaper: "I've kicked out of the privileged perch
a few special interests. They are complaining because there is change. You're not
hearing that criticism from Republicans. We believe in all Americans, not just the few
who want to go backpacking. ..Environmentalists are so selfish in their outlook. As
the president said, people are part of the ecology, too."

0 "We need to be as concerned about little baby lambs as we are about little baby
coyotes. And I think the balance has been skewed in recent years," Watt remarked
about his desire for a more agressive predator control program.

0 Addressing the International Association of Fish & Wildlife Agencies, Watt said that
if environmentalists were lined up on one side and sportsmen on the other over land-
management policies, "I'd support the sportsmen."

o In New Mexico, Watt stated that, "I think New Mexico can take better care of its own
resources than some central agency in Washington run by some bureaucratic hack who's out
in four years." But later, the Sagebrush Rebel—incarnate told a group of Interior em—
ployees that when it came to construction of the controversial nuclear Waste Isolation
Pilot Project (WIPP) in Carlsbad, "I do not believe we can give to the states veto power
over the management of federal lands."

A HEAP OF TROUBLE

In an unprecedented action, the St. Paul, Minnesota, City Council unanimously passed
a resolution on September 3 demanding that James Watt be removed from office because of
his anti- environmental policies. The entire city council, which does not normally inter-
vene in federal affairs, and Mayor George Latimer signed the Sierra Club petition. "It' 3
highly unusual, " said Council President Ron Maddox, "but I think the day has come when
local officials have got to take an interest. .This has reached such extremes. "

Nelson French of the Sierra Club North Star (Minnesota) Chapter said that,
best of my knowledge, no other large city in the United States has taken this kind of

"To the

action,‘ and suggested that it could start a wave

of similar action by city governments across
the nation. And the next day, the mayor of
Minneapolis and several city council members
signed the petition.

ﬁes Anw sue.
viet omcials Reportedly Kill Ranger, G0 UnpuniSbed

Swmhwﬁﬁmunmqﬂngﬂnﬂ

lﬂXﬂXﬁN ﬂﬂﬂy—hia.mmnmﬂ
’th overtones of a murder mys-
V,theinwnmmmn Puwdaimkl
:yﬂunagnnmmﬁhunuusub
5‘; CbnmmnmniRmmy<nﬁdab
. 'egmnetmmunmhaiaﬁerkﬂhng
: crest ranger who caught them
=hhmnn8ﬂnna
'V-:nmon£dbwlhavmttheoﬂﬁ
- 'Cbnmmnmn<MMy,ﬂusUue-lﬁe
'-JmmmmuﬂinzinueamnmEMn
tthe<wmnmeof5bvmujwmkm
:'u-ﬁnmspumeubskwﬂy.-
" vda said it got the story by
, owmgin>almﬂntntheemMK
vﬂhguminlhmma-luminthe
anamunxmmnmrqponcfSﬂmu-

v. Orlovfound

that forest ranger Valery Rinchin-
cw',24,{mnadonlusowninﬁmmwe
when he went into the forest near
Lake Baikal to check a report of il-
kgﬂmmﬂnthkm'. -

Backed by two friends and a driv-
er, the former Soviet- marine spot-
ted the hunters from afar and

walked towards the light they were

using to blind their prey. .
m“&mkhnw'ﬂmrquQMtﬁthmn
”said A. Amogolonov, a member
glhermnnu'srmam. ﬂAshmAmng
cmtandvma-haudihetxy’cdthe
‘wmnmdenmmnmN” ‘
Thepmmmamfmdbnﬂumnmrbut
ﬂu:ﬁanmermnegmvethmnamnw.
Theinnpunsvnnethetﬁnxuxcn
the regional movie distribution net-

'wodt,avﬂmkwﬂeoﬂkmﬂandandb
ﬁancﬁthedkuunlmmﬂngimmm-V
uy.

Police made the biggest catch a
few days later. He was the first sock
retary of the regional Young Com-'

munist League, T. Tsironov, “who

lﬁMﬁ-lmaﬂaﬂyhuﬂtohﬁebded

ﬂmebmmscntheinhmsf Panda
smd.

The incident took place in March
InnImnummnvnstﬂuumnnﬂlmuﬂ,
when the regional party committee
expelled the movie distributor from
ﬁsnnms

The Young Communist League

’officialgotareprimandandwasre-

nmnmdfumnmwpun.

 




THE WASHINGTON POST

Saturday. October IT, [08]

Civilization 8 Supports Said:
Threatened With Extinction

Acid rain has already killed much
of the life in hundreds of lakes, and
is thought by some scientists to be
gradually destroying forests over
large areas, he said.

Rain as acidic as lemon juice was
recently detected in China, he said.

He said overgrazing in the Amer-

STANFORD, Calif., Oct. 16
(UPD—Unless dramatic steps are
taken to preserve the environment,
many of the natural systems that
help support civilization will become
extinct, 3 Stanford University ecol-
ogist said Thursday

Many species of plants, animals
and microorganisms are on a colli-
sion course smith extinction, and even
an end to development of virgin
areas will not halt it, said Dr. Paul
Ehrlich, a widely recognized profes-
sor of biological sciences.

“Basically, what we’re doing is
sawing off the limb we’re sitting on,”
he said in an interview.

“In most cases humanity does not
know how to substitute for ecosys-
tem services and, when it does know,
the costs are usually higher than so-

ciety can pay,” he said.

Ehrlich, author of a recent book,
“Extinction,” said the threat to eco-
systems is global, and destruction

could mean changes in weather pat-
terns, soil and “other services hu-
manity can‘t do without.” 3

Sierra Club National News Report

6 October 1981

“W.“—

 

 

seashore is open to off—road
appears to be sympathetic to

ican West is another destructive pol-
icy that can cause soil erosion. “It
also wipes out all the other organ-
isms that are dependent on the
plants that are wiped out,” he said.

He said the “only sensible course”
is to develop comprehensive~ pm
grams of energy conservation and
solar technologies He said manyal?
ternatives to replacing lost services'
such as transplanting rich soils to
eroded areas, are too costly for .so--.
ciety.

WORLD ENVIRONMENT REPORT

Grass—roots mobilization OCTOBER 15, 1931

The Global Tomorrow Coalition, now 51 members strong, is a
union of organizations ranging from A, the Audubon Society,toZ,
Zero Population Growth, representing many millions of Americans.
It was formed this year to push for action on Global 2000 issues at
the grass-roots level within their constituencies and within the
Congress. The Coalition has an office (at 1525 New Hampshire
Ave., N.W., Vt’ashington, DC. 20036, phone (202) 328-8222), an
executive director, Don Lesh, and the group is chaired by Russell
W. Peterson, head of the Audubon Society.

Several task forces deal with such issues as biological diversity,
information and education, long-range planning, pollution,
population, trOpicaI forests and marine resources.

Although the Coalition is still awaiting formal approval asa non-
profit entity, it has organized itself remarkably well in a
comparatively short time and is constantly testing the waters
within government—and trying to create some waves of action.

At a recent meeting an officer of a regional bank suggested the
Coalition take advantage of other nations' interest in Global 2000
issues and coordinate with them as well But, so far, most of the
Coalition's work has been focused on what the U. 5. government
can accomplish.

ORV THREAT TO ASSATEAGUE ISLAND

 

Assateague is a barrier island off the Maryland—

Virginia coast.
the approximately 40-mile-long island is owned by

park,

the federal government.

Except fpr a two—mile stretch of state

About two-thirds of Assateague

Island is managed by the National Park Service as the

Assateague Island National Seashore;

the remaining two-

thirds is Managed by the U.S. Fish & Wildlife Service as
Chincoteague National Wildlife Refuge (NWR).

At present,
vehicle (ORV) use.

ORV use, the Assateague Mobile Sportsfisherman's Association

about 14 miles of beach in the national
Because Interior Secretary James Watt

and the United Mobile Sportsfisherman's Association are now demanding that the 10.5 miles
of Chincoteague beach be opened to ORVs.

More shore birds visit Chincoteague NWR than any other beach or refuge along the
Atlantic Coast, and the refuge is now an important autumn resting area for the endangered

peregrine falcon.

In 1980, more than twice as many people visited the refuge beach as

visited the national seashore area; enjoyment of this beach would be greatly harmed by

ORV disruption.

Letters are needed to counter the well-financed effort of the ORV users to open up

more of Assateague Island.
Manager, Chincoteague National Wildlife Refuge,
opposing the opening of the refuge beach to ORV use.
Jim Clarke, 402 Burgundy Dr., Rockville, MD 20850;

Those concerned should write to Dennis F. Holland, Refuge

P.O. Box 63, Chincoteague, VA 23336,
For additional information:
(301) 340-8994.

 




ldOdBU 1N3WNOUIAN3 OTUOM

lQoL 'QL 6380130

Toiwon’s boom
threatens wildlife

TAIPEI—The combination of a booming economy and a booming
population is making life difficult for wildlife in this small and
over-crowded island—Taiwan.

For such a small land area (only 35,000 square kilometers, about
the same as Holland) the variety of animals and plants found here
is remarkable. As a result of long separation from the mainland of
China, several unique species have evolved. Many are now
believed facing extinction, but since they tend to live in the
inaccessible central mountain range which covers two-thirds of

the island, their exact status is unknown. Competition for living
space from man is becoming intense as mountain areas are
opened to economic exploitation. The situation is made worse
because many animals have long been regarded as a source of
economic wealth themselves and are hunted ruthlessly.

Faced with this predicament, the government has been slow to
act since economic expansion is given the greatest emphasis in
official policies. But there are signs that this attitude might be
slowly changing. A few conservation projects have been started,
and the first of several national parks is due to open by the end of
the year at Kenting at the extreme southern tip of the island.

“Perhaps the best hope lies in trying to make people realizethat
wildlife is an important economic resource and that with proper
care it can be renewable. As things are at the moment, however,
the resource is being used up at such a rapid pace that soon it will
no longer be there," said Sheldon Severinghaus, a scientist who
has studied the situation over a number of years.

The growing list of threatened species includes deer, hunted for
their flesh and antlers, the latter considered to have medicinal
properties. The Formosan clouded leopard was last seen more
than 10 years ago and is thought to be extinct. The paws and
testicles of black bears are considered delicacies. Skeletons of
macaque monkeys are boiled into soup. Civets are a favorite
dietary item, and even the shy pangolin is hunted in lowland areas.

Among birds, several of some 16 species found only in Taiwan
are believed to be endangered. Brown shrikes are caught by the
thousands during their migrations each year and strung up live
before being fried.

Snakes are caught by the thousands and sold for their flesh,
blood and even venom, which are believed to be tonics. The night
markets where they are sold have become something of a tourist
attraction, but no one so far has paid much attention to the
increase in the rodent population which followed the depletion of
snakes. The butterfly industry alone must be worth millions of
dollars a year. The government estimates that some 20,000 people

earn their living from butterfly specimens and decorations. Some
40 species of butterflies are unique in Taiwan.

And the list goes on. Demand is so strong that a law passed in
1972 forbidding the hunting and export of birds and mammals
goes largely ignored. Lack of enforcement further encourages the
trend, since local police who are entrusted with the task have little
time or inclination to carry it out. Live and stuffed specimens are
sold openly in Taiwan.

Despite the depredations of hunting, it is likely that destruction
of habitat is the biggest long-term threat to wildlifein Taiwan. The
authorities constantly talk about opening up wilderness areas to
meet the economic and recreational needs of an increasingly
large and affluent population. With 18 million people, Taiwan has
the second highest pOpulation density in the world after
Bangladesh. Cross-island highways have been built to allow
timber felling and the establishment of fruit farms, even though
widespread erosion has been the result. And all this threatens
Taiwan's several‘unigueplant species. Currently, environmental-
ists both inside and outside the government are trying to delay
plans to buld three more cross-island highways, in particular one
which will pass through an untouched wilderness area close to the
island’s highest mountain of Yushan (3997 meters). “The attitude
seems to be that everyone, regardless of his physical condition,
should be able to reach even the remotest areas. But perhaps a few
areas should be set aside for those who are prepared to reach
them on foot,” said Severinghaus.

Such areas may indeed be established under government plans
to set up a network of national parks to cover the whole of the
island. Since these parks will come under a separate administra-
tion, one of the biggest obstacles to progress in wildlife
conservation may be overcome. At present, responsibilities are
split between several government departments which makes
coordinated action impossible. It is only fair to point out that the
requirement that visitors obtain a mountain permit has been
instrumental in preserving pristine conditions in some remote
areas, but pressure for more recreational space may erode the
system in future.

A more hopeful trend for the future is that personnel in
environmental agencies have recently been increased. The
national parks will be policed by trained park wardens who will
make sure that all wildlife is strictly protected.

“The root cause of the problem is the age-old competition
between man and wildlife for scarce resources,” said Hunter Eu,
head of a newly created environmental department under the
government's Council for Economic Planning and Development.
“We still have to get our priorities sorted out, but working out a
clear definition of who is responsible for what represents a good

start in t urgent task." WTHAF' ”FWD” !.

 




congressional
clearinghouse
on the future

WHAT’S HAPPENING

Global 200.

June 1981

Global Tomorrow

It is widely believed that the United States will
devote sufficient attention to increasingly serious
global population, resource, and environmental prob—
lems only if there is continuing interest and leader—
ship from well—informed citizens and citizen groups.
Accordingly, a coalition of organizations and
individuals - the Global Tomorrow Coalition — has
been established to arouse interest in these issues
and stimulate actions concerning them.

The group which decided to form the Global To-
morrow Coalition first met during the fall of 1980
to discuss the GLOBAL 2000 REPORT issued by the U.S.
Government in July, 1980. Thus far, those involved
have come mainly from the population and environ-
mental communities. Organizations which have ex—
pressed interest include the Alan Guttmacher Insti-
tute, Defenders of Wildlife, Environmental Defense
Fund, Environmental Policy Center, Friends of the
Earth, National Audubon Society, Population Reference
Bureau, Sierra Club, and Zero Population Growth.
This is the first time population and environmental
groups have agreed to work together systematically.
Among the individuals involved are former officials
of the State Department and the U.S. Agency for
International Development. There also is interest
in the Coalition among those concerned with develop—
ment and other international issues.

The Coalition received a strong endorsement at
the January 22—23 Leadership Conference on Environ—
ment, Population, and Resources. The Conference,
organized by the National Audubon Society, was
sponsored by more than 50 organizations and attended
by more than 200 persons.

The Coalition coordinates and assists the efforts
of its members to influence decisions concerning a

global population, resource, and environmental issues.

However, the Coalition seldom will take public posi—
tions on issues in its own name, leaving that to its
members.

CEQ

Briefings were made to several Hill committees
after the report was released in July 1980. A list
of briefings follows:

* Senate Environment & Public Works Committee
John Yago, 224-7842, arranged.

* House Science & Technology Committee
Skip Spensley, arranged.

* House Energy and Commerce Committee
Frank Potter, 225—2927, arranged.

* House Foreign Affairs Committee
George Ingram, 225—5021, arranged

Nick Yost directed the Task Force report, GLOBAL
FUTURE: TIME TO ACT. He has prepared a brief summary
of recommendations made in the report. The GLOBAL
FUTURE report summary is available from CEQ.

CEQ has prepared two tables linking GLOBAL FUTURE

The Coalition will carry out a program of educa-
tion and public awareness with the objective of making
the public and opinion makers more aware of the impor—
tance of global problems and the necessity of actions
to solve them.

Task forces have been established to coordinate
the activities of members on particular issues and to
develop the Coalition's educational program. The
task forces are Population, Long-Range Analysis,
Information and Education, Biological Diversity.

The Coalition will prepare and distribute infor—
mational and educational materials and will promote
educational efforts by others. The GLOBAL 2000
REPORT and the follow—up report of the State Depart-
ment and the Council on Environmental Quality, en-
titled GLOBAL FUTURE: TIME TO ACT, will provide
useful source materials and reference points.

Using contacts already established by its mem—
bers, the Coalition is working to develop relation-
ships with nongovernmental organizations abroad.
Especially close relations are expected with other
coalition—type organizations, such as the European
Environmental Bureau in Brussels, the International
Union for the Conservation of Nature in Switzerland,
and the Environment Liaison Centre in Nairobi.
Cooperative programs will be developed with foreign
groups in the area of education and public awareness.

In addition to environmental, population, and
development groups, the Coalition hopes to have as
members a wide variety of other organizations, in—
cluding business, labor, religious, women's, and
other groups.

Global Tomorrow Coalition

725 I Street, N.W., Suite 600

Washington, DC 20006

Tom Stoel 223—8210

c/o Natural Resources Defense
Council

recommendations to the Congressional Committee with
jurisdiction. One table is by committee, another by
recommendation. They are available from David
Barnhizer.

Committee on the Year 2000

1601 Connecticut Ave., N.W.

Eighth FlOor

Washington, DC 20009

(202) 387—0800

 

CR8

In our first issue of the newsletter, we
inadvertently published an incomplete list of
Congressional Research Service (CRS) personnel.
CRS requests that all inquiries on Global 2000
topics be made by calling 287-5700. The in-
dividuals listed in our previous report should
not be called directly. The clearinghouse
regrets the error.

 

 

 

 




 

 

5 4‘ L Global 2000]

 

In Congress

Hon. Les AuCoin
2446 Rayburn HOB
Washington, D.C. 20515
Suzanne Bohn 225-0855

Congressman Les AuCoin's interest in the GLOBAL
2000 REPORT specifically includes the sections on
population, food and agriculture, coastal and marine
resources, water resources and environment; all of
these areas are of equal importance to him. He has
met with Dr. Gerald Barney, study director, to discuss
the contents of the report.

Congressman AuCoin is also interested in seeing
the formation of a Congressional Caucus that would
discuss the contents of the report and propose legis-
lative solutions to some of the problems presented
in the report.

Congressman AuCoin recently co—signed a letter to
President Reagan, urging him to seriously consider the
recommendations in GLOBAL FUTURE: A TIME TO ACT, the
follow—up report to GLOBAL 2000 and to put into motion
the machinery to translate these recommendations into
action. He also is a co—sponsor of Congressman
Ottinger's legislation which reSponds to some of the
population concerns in GLOBAL 2000. H.R. 907 requires
federal agencies to address the effects of population
changes on their programs and policies, to coordinate
these policies, and to formulate a policy with the
goal of population stabilization.

Hon. Tony Beilenson
1025 Longworth HOB
Washington, D.C. 20515
Gil Thompson 225—5911

Representative Beilenson sent a letter to Gus
Speth at CEQ when the GLOBAL 2000 REPORT was issued.
He also participated in the task group follow—up and
attended a leadership meeting held at the Audubon
Society. He wants to see some of the recommendations
acted on by the Reagan Administration.

Senator Alan Cranston
229 Russell SOB
Washington, D.C. 20510
224—3553

In the April edition of his newsletter to Califor-
nians, Senator Alan Cranston presented some findings
of the GLOBAL 2000 REPORT along with a discussion of
some of the key issues. "It is clear to me that our
national self—interest right now lies in deflecting
present trends and in building toward a more agreeable
world for ourselves and our children 19 years from now."

Hon. Robert Edgar

2442 Rayburn HOB
Washington, D.C. 20515
225—2011

Representative Edgar is personally very interested
in the issues raised by the Report. He discussed the
possibility of a new joint committee to deal with
global issues raised.

Hon. Albert Gore, Jr.

Chairman

Congressional Clearinghouse
on the Future

3564 House Annex #2

Washington, D.C. 20515

(202) 225-3153

Rita Goldman, Director

On September 23, 1980 the Clearinghouse and the
Congressional Institute for the Future invited Dr.
Gerald 0. Barney to speak at a luncheon session on
the findings in the report. Transcripts of the dis—
cussion are available from the Clearinghouse.

World

Hon. Mike Lowry

1205 Longworth HOB
Washington, D.C. 20515
Jan Shinpoch 225-4622

Congressman Lowry will be introducing a bill to
set up international biological habitats. Already
existing taxes on wildlife products would be diverted
to a fund set up in the Interior Department. A seven
member panel would review applications from eligible
countries who would have to provide 10 percent match-
ing funds to set up the habitats. The measure has
the backing of the fur industry which has the fore—
sight to realize that measures must be taken now to
help protect the habitats of vanishing species.

ESC

On January 23, the Environmental Study Conference
held a breakfast meeting for Mambers of Congress and
the Committee for the Year 2000. Russell Train and
Robert Anderson, co—chairmen of the Committee, dis—
cussed the implications of Global issues with Manbers
present. ESC is monitoring other ”2000" activities,
and ran a list of related Hill events in their weekly
bulletin for the week of February 16th.

Environmental Study Conference
3334 HOB Annex #2

Washington, DC 20515

Ken Murphy 225-2988

OTA

OTA will co—sponsor with the Overseas Development
Council (ODC) and the Georgetown Center for Strategic
and International Studies (CSIS) two studies on
Global 2000 issues.

Part I: Study a number of major models including
the Global 2000 report to look at their
assumptions, the data, and the useful—
ness of the different models to policy
makers.

Study specific policy implications fo-
cusing initially on three questions
relating to foreign policy:

'Part II:

1. How is the United States' national
interest defined - narrowly or
broadly? (The C818 will prepare
the study.)

2. If defined broadly, what are the
United States' capabilities to
monitor future trends in foreign
policy, and what improvements in
monitoring are needed?

3. If defined broadly, what are the
policy implications in specific
terms, i.e., third world develop—
ment, technology transfer, defense
strategies, etc.? (ODC will prepare
the studies for #2 and #3.)

Bank

The World Bank has studied the GLOBAL 2000 REPORT
and especially the GLOBAL FUTURES REPORT. A copy was
sent to the President of the World Bank, Robert McNamara,
who made copies available to his Council of Advisers.
Copies were also made available to the executive direc—
tors of the 22 member nations who in turn have dissemi-
nated c0pies of the reports to the leaders of the
countries they represent. One seminar on the GLOBAL
2000 REPORT has already been held and further seminars
for the Bank's long range planning experts have been
planned.

World Bank

Office of Environmental Affairs
1818 H Street, N.W.

Washington, DC 20433

477—6848

Jim Lee

 




Global 2oocﬂ

 

 

congressional clearinghouse on the future

Albert Gore, Jr.
Chairman

Thad Cochran
Vice Chairman

Executive Committee
Berkley Bedell
James Blanchard
Robert Edgar
Millicent Fenwick
Newt Gingrich
William Lehman
Gillis Long
Charlie Rose
Harrison Schmitt
Phil Sharp
Timothy Wirth

Advisory Committee
Lindy Boggs

Don Bonker
William S. Cohen
Alan Cranston
Chris Dodd

Tom Downey
Dante Fascell
Thomas Foley
Jack Hightower
Stewart McKinney
Charles Mathias, Jr.
Barbara Mikulski

3565 house annex #2

washington,clc.20515 (202)225-3153

Ever since the release in July 1980 of the Global 2000 Report
to the President, the Clearinghouse on the Future has wondered how
we might further the discussion of the issues raised by the Report.
We were actively involved in the Hill distribution of the Report,
and Dr. Gerald Barney, Executive Director, made a presentation to our
members on September 23, 1980. Several members of the Clearinghouse
met, on separate occasions, with Gus Speth and Nick Yost to discuss
a continuing role for the Clearinghouse.

 

 

We considered sponsoring more workshops and seminars, asking
for further studies and analysis of the issues presented in the
Report, but as we looked around, we noticed that others were already
doing these things, and there was no need for us to duplicate their
efforts. What we did notice was that many of the actors involved
in following the issues presented in the Report did not know who
the other actors were, and so we decided to do what we do best,
which is serve as a clearinghouse. The following information is
our first attempt to explain what is going on in the Congress and
around town related to issues presented by the Global 2000 Report

 

Carl Perkins

1.]. Pickle

Henry Reuss
Claudine Schneider
Gladys Spellman
Morris Udall

Anne W. Cheatham
Director this effort.

Barbara Bailey

Renee Canada And,

Rita Goldman

Elaine Wicker

We hope this is helpful.
on future activities,
get in touch with them.
of this kind if you think this function is worthwhile.
Cheatham know if you have questions and/or ideas for the future of

and other reports of its kind.

We will count on you to keep us posted
and let us know who we missed and how we can
We will continue to send periodic reports
Let Anne

on behalf of our Advisory Committee and Members, let us
thank you for your continuing interest in the global concerns you
are keeping before us.
swallows up the needs of the future.
to keep this focus alive.

The pressure of the present most often
At the Clearinghouse, we try
We hope our work complements yours as

we take into account the enormous task before us as we work toward
life and health in the year 2000.

W

Albert Gore, Jr.
Chairman

/

/ Qa/M.

Thad Cochran
Vice Chairman

 

Publications

The April 1981 issue of the FUTURIST in the World
Trends and Forecasts section presents a discussion of
the major findings of GLOBAL FUTURE. A copy is $3.50
from WORLD FUTURE SOCIETY, P.O. Box 30369, Bethesda
Branch, Washington, DC 20014; (301) 656—8274

A WORLD ENVIRONMENT REPORT Special January issue
"Meeting the Challenges of the Global 2000 Report"
presents a sample of what two dozen countries around
the world are doing about key environmental issues.

The February 2 issue discusses the GLOBAL FUTURE report.

The March 30 issue presents criticism of GLOBAL 2000
report by Herman Rohn and Ernest Schneider of the
Hudson Institute. COpies are $3 from WORLD ENVIRONMENT
REPORT, 300 East 42nd Street, New York, NY 10017;

(212) 697-3232.

An article by Robert Day, Jr., in the May issue
of THE JOURNAL OF FORESTRY discusses the Global 2000
report and implications of the findings for profes-
sional foresters. "Yet, whether our good work in
conservation and management will survive through the
twenty-first century is ultimately tied to the
resolution of the population issue."

A copy of the journal is $3 from JOURNAL OF
FORESTRY, 5400 Grosvenor Lane, Bethesda, MD 20014;
(301) 897—8720.

In January of this year, leaders from 60 organiza—
tions, representing a combined membership of 6.5
million people, participated in a national conference
organized by the National Audubon Society. The two-
day, Washington conference brought together public
officials, business executives, college presidents,
college students, and church leaders to consider
problems of overpopulation, resource depletion, and
environmental degradation.

The Audubon Society is currently working on pub—
lication of conference proceedings. Speakers include
Russell Peterson, Gerald Barney, Hon. Richard Ottinger,
Emery Castle, Nafis Sadik, Lester Brown, Senator Robert
Stafford, Gus Speth, Russell Train, Harlan Cleveland
and others.

A summary report of the Conference on Population,
Resources, and Environment is now available at no
charge from Frances Breeder, National Audubon Society,
950 Third Avenue, New York, NY 10022; (212) 546-9285.

Rene Dubos in a WALL STREET JOURNAL article is
critical of the Global 2000 report. Dubos considers
the report to be overly-pessimestic and based on in—
formation that is "incomplete, inaccurate, slanted and
outdated." "Half-Truths About the Future" appears in
THE WALL STREET JOURNAL, May 8, 1981.

 




 

 

L Global 2000

Zero Population Growth (ZPG) has published a new
brochure based on some of the Global 2000 report's
major projections. ”Creating the Coming Century"
points out how spiraling world population growth
depletes resources and endangers the environment.
Single copies are available at no charge. ZPG,

1346 Connecticut Avenue, N.W., Washington DC 20036;
(202) 785-0100.

Julian Simon, in his critique of GLOBAL 2000 report
in the winter issue of THE PUBLIC INTEREST, says
"Fortunately, these assertions about resources and
the environment are baseless. The authors of the 2000
offer no persuasive evidence for their 'scenario.'
...for most or all of the relevant matters I have
checked, the trends are positive rather than negative."
A copy of THE PUBLIC INTEREST is $3 from National
Affairs, Inc., 10 East 53 Street, New York, NY 10022.

I

Harlan Cleveland, Director of The Hubert H. Humphrey
Institute of Public Affairs, discussed the GLOBAL 2000
report and GLOBAL FUTURE report at an Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Deve10pment (OECD) meeting in
Paris. A copy of his remarks is available at no charge
from The Hubert H. Humphrey Institute of Public Affairs,
909 Social Sciences, 267—l9th Avenue South, Minneapolis,
MN 55455; (612) 373-2653.

A response by Nicholas Yost, former general counsel
for CEO, to the article by Rene Dubos appears in the
June 2, 1981 edition of THE WALL STREET JOURNAL.

Committee on the Year 2000

The Committee is co-chaired by Russell Train and
Robert Anderson and has as its members Cyrus Vance,
Walter Cronkite, Elliot Richardson, Marian Heiskell,
S. Dillon Ripley, Adrian DeWind, Hans Landsberg and
Roger Revelle.

The group is set up to serve as a connection
mechanism between leaders in the public and private
sectors. The members will take ideas represented
in the GLOBAL 2000 REPORT, the Brandt Commission
Report, etc., and share their concern with leaders
in Congress and the administration. The Committee
will also encourage a program involving leaders of
major corporations who will explore sustainable
future scenarios.

Committee on the Year 2000
1601 Connecticut Ave., N.W.
Eighth Floor

Washington, DC 20009

David Barnhizer 387—0800

 

US GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE HAS

‘PRINTED 40.000 COPIES OF THE
SUMMARY.

'PRINTED 18,000 COPIES OF THE
TECHNICAL REPORT.

'JUST RELEASED THE GLOBAL MODEL
REPORT.

A GERMAN TRANSLATION OF VOLUMES I
AND II HAS SOLD 150,000 COPIES.

IN JAPAN, THE TRANSLATION HAS SOLD
HUNDREDS OF THOUSANDS OF COPIES AND
HAS APPEARED SERIALLY IN A NUMBER
OF MAGAZINES.

THE CANADIAN GOVERNMENT IS CONDUCTING
A CANADA 2000 STUDY.

THE USSR HAS EXPRESSED INTEREST IN A
SEMINAR ON THE ISSUES RAISED BY THE
REPORT.

 

 

 

The following are samples of Global 2000
activities that have been reported to us by groups
and individuals around the country. Some of these
activities have been initiated as a response to the
Global 2000 report and others, while not a direct
response, share concern oVer the issues raised.

The United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) is
the UN catalyst for global environment programs and
global environment monitoring and also assists govern-
ments in solving environmental problems. Key concerns
are toxic wastes, acid rain, and ozone protection.

Joan Martin Nicholson
Washington Office/UNEP
5508 - 39th Street, N.W.'
Washington, DC 20015

The University of Wisconsin in cooperation with the
Schlitz Audubon Center is offering a four session work-
shop on population, resources, and the environment.

One session focuses on the Global.2000 report.

Charlotte Zieve

Milwaukee Audubon Society
9481 North Sequoia Drive
Milwaukee, WI 53217

(414) 351—3454

The Peace Through Law Education Fund, an affiliate
of Members of Congress for Peace Through Law, held a
breakfast meeting on food and population. Russell
Train, co—chair of the Committee for the Year 2000,
discussed the implications of the Global 2000 report.

Peace Through Law Education Fund
2700 Virginia Ave., N.W., #807
Washington, DC 20037

(202) 225-8550

Ingemar Falkehag is involved in the development of
a global bionetwork which will attempt to connect re—
search and development groups in the bioresource-
biotechnology fields through computer conferencing,
workshops, and innovative problem-solving.

Ingemar Falkehag
Renewing Systems

706 Creekside Drive
Mount Pleasant, SC 29464

The Natural Resources Defense Council (NRDC) is
a nonprofit organization dedicated to the wise man—
agement of natural resources and enhancement of
environmental quality. NRDC has 45,000 contributing
members in the United States and in more than 20
other countries, and offices in New York, Washington,
and San Francisco. Through its International Project,
NRDC is contributing to the solution of international
environmental problems. NRDC has been particularly
concerned about environmental aspects of development,
the environmental impacts of US activities abroad,
conservation and wise use of tr0pical forests, and
energy. NRDC c00perates with governments, inter—
national organizations, and other non—governmental
organizations, and receives funding from its members,
private foundations, and government agencies.

NRDC

1725 Eye Street, N.W.
Suite 600
Washington, DC 20006
(202) 223-8210

Gerald 0. Barney, study director for the Global
2000 report, has been talking to government leaders in
many countries on implications of the report. This
summer he travels to Mexico City, Warsaw, Beijing,
Tokyo, and the Middle East.

Dr. Barney has been appointed executive director
of the Woodlands Conference on Sustainable Societies.

Gerald 0. Barney Associates, Inc.
Research on World Problems

1730 North Lynn Street, Suite 400
Arlington, VA 22209

 




 

Global zooo|

 

Congressional Committees

The SUBCOMMITTEE ON INVESTIGATIONS AND OVERSIGHT Vol. II STRATEGIC ISSUES: HISTORICAL EXPERIENCE,
has expressed interest in a number of the issues INSTITUTIONAL STRUCTURES AND CONCEPTUAL
raised by the report and has announced hearings on FRAMEWORK
the carbon dioxide build—up issue, known as the Publication: Spring, 1981
"greenhouse effect".

Vol. III CONGRESSIONAL FORESIGHT: HISTORY, RECENT
Committee on Science and EXPERIENCE AND IMPLEMENTATION STRATEGIES
Technology Publication: later this year
Subcommittee on Investigations ‘
and Oversight Vol. IV PUBLIC ISSUE EARLY WARNING SYSTEMS
Hon. Albert Gore, Jr. Publication: later this year
A819 House Annex #1
Washington DC 20515 The Committee plans to hold hearings in the fall
on the whole arena of congressional foresight—~what

is being done and what can be done.
The SUBCOMMITTEE ON SCIENCE, RESEARCH AND

TECHNOLOGY has expressed an interest in several of the Committee on Energy and Commerce
issues raised by the report. Chairman Doug Walgren Hon. John Dingell, Chair
and longtime member Congressman George E. Brown 2125 Rayburn HOB
are particularly interested. Washington, D.C. 20515
Frank Potter 225—2927
Committee on Science and
Technology
Subcommittee on Science, Research,
and Technology The SUBCOMMITTEE ON FISHERIES AND WILDLIFE CON-
Hon. Doug Walgren SERVATION AND THE ENVIRONMENT held a hearing on
2319 Rayburn HOB February 25th on the authorization of further funding
Washington DC 20515 for the Council on Environmental Quality. The current
Tom Moss 225—8113 authorization is $3 million, and expires at the end
John Holmfield 225—8113 of fiscal year 1981.

Speaking on behalf of the CEQ was Robert 0. Blake,
Senior Fellow of the International Institute for
Environment and DevelOpment. Blake testified that
the CEQ "has done an increasingly good job, sometimes
an outstanding job, in making the first systematic
approaches to the analysis of global resource and
environmental problems." The Council, with the free-
dom and power available to it from being a part of
the Executive Office, is able to look at the entire
Spectrum of world environmental problems and make
appropriate recommendations. This ability recently
culminated in the GLOBAL 2000 REPORT to the President
which provides the most comprehensive forecasts yet
offered. Blake recommended that a larger amount of
CEQ's time be spent on global problems and further
stated that no president has of yet relied heavily
enough on the CEQ.

The COMMITTEE ON FOREIGN AFFAIRS held a hearing
on international deveIOpment on March 19th. The
first part of the hearing centered on U.S. economic
and food assistance to developing countries. The
second part addressed U.S. bilateral economic assis-
tance programs including assistance channeled through
private voluntary organizations. Peter MCPherson and
other top aid officials were among the witnesses
testifying.

Committee on Foreign Affairs
Hon. Clement J. Zablocki
Chair

2170 Rayburn HOB

Washington, D.C. 20515
225—5021

Committee on Merchant Matine
The SUBCOMMITTEE ON THE CENSUS is planning hear- and Fisheries

ings on H.R. 907, a bill introduced by Congressman Subcommittee on Fisheries and
Dick Ottinger to establish a national policy and a Wildlife Conservation and
federal agency to implement the policy. the Environment
Hon. John Breaux, Chair

Mike Farrell indicated that the subcommittee 3574 House Annex #2
would focus on legislation, but would use Global 2000 Washington, n.0, 20515
issues as background. The one or two days of hearings Wayne Smith, Staff Director
will probably focus on population and its impact on 225—7307
energy, transportation, etc. In addition, the sub—
committee will look at population and programs from
the standpoint of budget cuts. A regional hearing is

FOSSible' Committee on Post Office and The SUBCOMMITTEE ON INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC POLICY
Civil Service AND TRADE held a hearing on March 24th on U.S. Inter-
Subcommittee on the Census national Assistance Programs: Population, Energy and
Hon. Robert Garcia, Chair Environment. Among the witnesses were Lester Brown
A601 House Annex #1 of Worldwatch, James Plummer of Electric Power Research
Washington, D.C. 20515 Institute, and Thomas Lovejoy, Vice President of
Mike Farrell 225—6741 Science World Wildlife Fund, Inc.

Committee on Foreign Affairs
Subcommittee on International
Economic Policy and Trade

The SENATE ENVIRONMENT AND PUBLIC WORKS COMMITTEE. Hon. Jonathan Bingham, Chair

As aide to past chair Jennings Randolph, John Yago A707 House Annex #1
requested a briefing on the Report by CEQ after ltS .
. . . , Washington, D.C. 20515
publication in July, 1980. Senator Randolph submitted
, Gordon Kerr 225-9411
a follow-up letter to the task group, and has been in

conversation with the Committee for the Year 2000.
The SUBCOMMITTEE ON INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC

Senate Environment and Public POLICY h81d OVBI'Sight hearings on the United
Works Committee States' stake in the global economy on February
4204 Dirksen SOB 25 and 27. The specific topics included mineral
Washington, D.C. 20510 resources in developing countries, the potential
John Yago 224-7842 for renewable energy sources in developing coun-
tries, population growth, and alternative policy

strategies for the United States.

The COMMITTEE ON ENERGY AND COMMERCE has Committee on Foreign Relations
asked CRS to prepare a four volume document on Subcommittee on International
foresight and the Congress. Economic Policy

Hon. Charles Mathias, Chair
Vol. I STRATEGIC FUTURE: SOME SELECTED ISSUES OF 4229 Dirksen SOB
INTEREST TO CONGRESS Washington, DC 20510
Publication: Spring, 1981 Bob Russell 224-4651

 




 

THE CLEARINGHOUSE WILL PUBLISH PERIODIC REPORTS ON GLOBAL ZOOO
FOLLOW-UP EFFORTS. PLEASE SEND ANY INFORMATION ON ACTIVITIES
TO THE CLEARINGHOUSE.

NAME;
ORGANIZATION

ADDRESS
PHONE

D€§CRIPTION OF ACTIVITIES

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Please send to Congressional Clearinghouse on the Future
3564 House Annex 2, Washington, D.C., 20515: 225—3153.

 

 

 

U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

WASHINGTON. DC. 20515
PUBLIC DOCUMENT

OFFICIAL BUSINESS

 




Live demonstrations and experiments involving
animals in precollege education are valuable ways
to excite children about science. ILAR believes
that the judicious use of animals in these settings

should continue, as long as it is appropriately .'
planned and supervised and does not interfere ‘i PRINCIPLES AND
with an animal's health and well—being. Many - GUIDELINES FOR
schools have modiﬁed the use of animals in their {
teaching programs in response to concerns of THE USE OF ANIMALS
society, and many more are contemplating such ' IN PRECOLLEGE
changes. I.

To help schools implement these changes, 1 EDUCATION

ILAR has recommended a new set of principles
for the use of animals in precollege science proj-
ects. Providing explicit guidance on planning,
supervision, animal care, and avoidance of pain
and discomfort, the principles are in line with
current approaches to the use of animals in higher
education and research. Although the principles
are not legally binding, ILAR believes they can
help improve the scientiﬁc integrity of precollege
research and encourage more humane treatment
of animals.

‘ N The Institute of Laboratory Animal

R Resources (ILAR) was founded in 1952 under
the auspices of the National Research Council,

C which serves as an independent adviser to the
federal government on scientific and technical

questions of national importance. Jointly administered by

the National Academy of Sciences, the National Academy of

Engineering, and the Institute of Medicine, the National Re-

search Council brings the resources of the entire scientiﬁc and

technical community to bear on national problems through its

volunteer advisory committees.

ILAR is a component of the Commission on Life Sciences.
Among its goals are to develop and make available scientiﬁc and
technical information on laboratory animals and other biologic
research resources to the federal government, the laboratory
animal science and biomedical research communities, and the
public. Guidelines developed by ILAR form a foundation for
institutional and governmental policies on animal care and use.
ILAR promotes high—quality and humane care of laboratory ani—
mals; the appropriate use of laboratory animals, and the explo—
ration of alternatives in research, testing, and teaching.

 

Institute of Laboratory Animal Resources
Commission on Life Sciences
National Research Council
National Academy of Sciences
National Academy of Engineering

Institute of Laboratory Animal Resources
National Research Council
2101 Constitution Avenue, NW

Washington, DC 20418

 




Principles and Guidelines for the Use; of Animals in Precollege Education

Institute of Laboratory Animal Resources
Commission on Life Sciences
National Research Council
National Academy of Sciences
National Academy of Engineering

The humane study of animals in precollege
education can provide important learning ex—
periences in science and ethics and should be
encouraged. Maintaining classroom pets in pre—
school and grade school can teach respect for
other species, as well as proper animal husbandry
practices. Introduction of secondary school stu-
dents to animal studies in closely supervised set-
tings can reinforce those early lessons and teach
the principles of humane care and use of animals
in scientiﬁc inquiry. The National Research Coun-
cil recommends compliance with the following
principles whenever animals are used in pre—
college education or in science fair projects.

PRINCIPLE 1

Observational and natural history studies that
are not intrusive (that is, do not interfere with an
animal’s health or well-being or cause it discom-
fort) are encouraged for all classes of organisms.
When an intrusive study of a living organism is
deemed appropriate, consideration should be
given ﬁrst to using plants (including lower plants
such as yeast and fungi) and invertebrates with no
nervous systems or with primitive ones (including
protozoa, planaria, and insects). Intrusive studies
of invertebrates with advanced nervous systems
(such as octopi) and vertebrates should be used
only when lower invertebrates are not suitable
and only under the conditions stated below in
Principle 10.

PRINCIPLE 2

Supervision shall be provided by individuals
who are knowledgeable about and experienced

with the health, husbandry, care, and handling
of the animal species used and who understand
applicable laws, regulations, and policies.

PRINCIPLE 3

Appropriate care for animals must be provided
daily, including weekends, holidays, and other
times when school is not in session. This care
must include

nutritious food and clean, fresh water;
clean housing with space and
enrichment suitable for normal species
behaviors; and

temperature and lighting appropriate for
the species.

PRINCIPLE 4

Animals should be healthy and free of diseases
that can be transmitted to humans or to other
animals. Veterinary care must be provided as
needed.

PRINCIPLE 5

Students and teachers should report
immediately to the school health authority all
scratches, bites, and other injuries; allergies; or
illnesses.

PRINCIPLE 6

Prior to obtaining animals for educational
purposes, it is imperative that the school develop
a plan for their procurement and ultimate dispo-
sition. Animals must not be captured from or
released into the wild without the approval of the
responsible wildlife and public health officials.
When euthanasia is necessary, it should be per-
formed in accordance with the most recent rec—
ommendations of the American Veterinary Medi-
cal Association’s Panel Report on Euthanasia (Ioar-
nal of the American Veterinary Medical Association,

188[3]:252—268, 1986, et seq.). It should be
performed only by someone trained in the
appropriate technique.

PRINCIPLE 7

Students shall not conduct experimental
procedures on animals that

a. are likely to cause pain or discomfort or
interfere with an animal’s health or
well—being;
induce nutritional deficiencies or
toxicities; or
expose animals to microorganisms,
ionizing radiation, cancer—producing
agents, or any other harmful drugs or
chemicals capable of causing disease,
injury, or birth defects in humans or
animals.

In general, procedures that cause pain in humans
are considered to cause pain in other vertebrates.

PRINCIPLE 8

Experiments on avian embryos that might
result in abnormal chicks or in chicks that might
experience pain or discomfort shall be terminated
72 hours prior to the expected date of hatching.
The eggs shall be destroyed to prevent inadvertent
hatching.

PRINCIPLE 9

Behavioral conditioning studies shall not
involve aversive stimuli. In studies using positive
reinforcement, animals should not be deprived of
water; food deprivation intervals should be appro—
priate for the species but should not continue
longer than 24 hours.

PRINCIPLE 10

A plan for conducting an experiment with
living animals must be prepared in writing and

approved prior to initiating the experiment or
to obtaining the animals. Proper experimental
design of projects and concern for animal welfare
are important learning experiences and contribute
to respect for and appropriate care of animals.
The plan shall be reviewed by a committee
composed of individuals who have the knowledge
to understand and evaluate it and who have the
authority to approve or disapprove it. The written
plan should include the following:

a. a statement of the speciﬁc hypotheses or
principles to be tested, illustrated, or
taught;

a summary of what is known about the
subject under study, including
references;

a justiﬁcation for the use of the species
selected and consideration of why a
lower vertebrate or invertebrate cannot
be used; and

a detailed description of the methods
and procedures to be used, including
experimental design; data analysis; and
all aspects of animal procurement, care,
housing, use, and disposal.

EXCEPTIONS

Exceptions to Principles 7—10 may be granted
under special circumstances by a panel appointed
by the school principal or his or her designee.
This panel should consist of at least three individ-
uals, including a science teacher, a teacher of a
nonscience subject, and a scientist or veterinarian
who has expertise in the subject matter involved.1
At least one panel member should not be afﬁli-
ated with the school or science fair, and none
should be a member of the student’s family.

April 1989

 

1 In situations where an appropriate scientist is not available

to assist the student, the Institute of Laboratory Animal Re-
sources (ILAR) might be able to provide referrals. Write to ILAR,
National Research Council, 2101 Constitution Avenue, NW,
Washington, DC 20418, or call (202)334—2590.

 




 

 

Center for Coastal Studies

 

MEMBERS NEWSLETTER

 

JULY I AUGUST 1986

CETACEAN RESEARCH
PROGRAM

*1" i

Sinus and crew working with whales in Great South Channel

CRP EXPANDS ITS STUDIES
IN T O GREA T SOUTH CHANNEL

The area known as Great South Channel, located some 40 miles
southeast of Chatham, Cape God, has long been known as an
important habitat for whales of several species. Access to the
region is difﬁcult, however, and its exposure to the Atlantic means
that it is frequently characterized by bad weather; for these
reasons, the area has been little studied in the past.

This year, the Center received a grant from the World Wildlife
Fund-US. to conduct a study of humpback whales in Great South
Channel. This project consists of two week-long surveys of the
region, during which CRP staff will photographically identify
individual whales to determine the extent to which the humpbacks
found there represent a sub-population within the Gulf of Maine.
This information is extremely important, as it allows researchers
to reﬁne the population estimates that are critical to predictions
of the recovery rate of an endangered species.

The ﬁrst week of ﬁeld work was conducted in June, using
the Center’s research vessel SIRIUS. Large numbers of whales
were observed and photographed, including new humpback
mother/calf pairs; these latter sightings are vital additions to an
ongoing study of humpback reproduction being conducted by the
Center (this important study will be summarized in a future
newsletter).

While humpbacks were the main focus of the project, other
species were also documented. Of these, the most important
observations were of right whales, which utilize the habitat during
at least the late spring and early summer. Right whales are the

EDITOR: KAREN STEUER

most endangered of all the large whales, and information from
such a poorly-studied habitat is of great importance to our
understanding of their population status.

More than forty ﬁn whales were identiﬁed during the week,
and observations were also made of sei whales. The sei
(pronounced “say”) is a species which is rarely seen by CRP staff,
and whose presence in the area was therefore something of a
novelty.

The Great South Channel project is much more than an

important investigation of the whales of a particular area: it

represents a major step forward in the evolution of the Cetacean

Sez’ whale - Balaenoptera borealis

Research Program. Due in large part to the consistent access
afforded by the whalewatching vessels of the Dolphin Fleet in
Provincetown, we have now accumulated the largest database in
the world on humpback whales, and among the largest on ﬁn and
right whales. We can now expand our investigations
geographically, and compare the results of ﬁiture studies with this
database.

The key element in this evolution is the research vessel
SIRIUS. Donated to the Center last year by Henry and Nancy
Boschen, SIRIUS has provided CRP with a ﬂexibility of operation
that was previously unimaginable. SIRIUS will return to Great
South Channel in August for the study’s second week of ﬁeld work.

submitted by Phil Clapham

 

COASTWEEK 1986 BENEFITS FOR THE CENTER!

The Center’s Annual Beneﬁt Whalewatch on the Dolphin
Fleet will take place on Monday, September 22. Join CRP
scientists for a slide show and-lecture at the New Art Cinema
in Provincetown at 1 pm, followed by the Whalewatch at
3 pm. Tax-deductible donation for non-members is $20;
members $15; children 12 and under $13;

The 8th Annual Trash Fish Banquet extravaganza will hap-
pen on Thursday, September 25. at. the Lobster Pot
. Restaurant in Provincetomeash bar begins at-5z30 p.m.;
seatings will be at 6pm., 7:30, and 9. Contribution for
non-members is $25; members $15; children 12 and under
$10. Come and join us for a-sample of those great trash
ﬁsh recipes we’ve been publishing in the newsletter!

THIS IS A GREAT WAY TO SUPPORT THE CENTER
DURING THE NATIONWIDE COASTWEEK
FESTIVITIES . . . CONTACT US AS SOON AS POSSIBLE
‘ FOR TICKETS IN ORDER TO ASSURE PREFERRED
BANQUET SEATING AND A PLACE ON THE
WHALEWATCH . . . WE LOOK FORWARD TO SEE-
ING YOU! ‘

 

 

 




 

DR. MA Y0 VISITS BELIZE T0
AD VISE GO VERNMENT
REGARDING TRAPPED WHALE

—The latter part of June found Stormy Mayo, Center Director
of Research, not in the waters of Cape Cod Bay, but in the waters
off the coast of the Central American country of Belize; Stormy
was on site at the request of government ofﬁcials to advise them
on possible action regarding a trapped ﬁn whale.

The whale, 55-60 feet in length and in somewhat emaciated
condition due to lack of feed in the area, has been trapped inside
a basin formed by a natural barrier reef off the Belize coast,
approximately 150 miles south of Belize City. It is believed that
the whale inadvertently entered the basin area through the Gulf
of Honduras to the south, perhaps as early as January or February,
and then moved northward into the basin. A narrow exit from

the basin exists, but in water relatively shallow—approximately .

30 feet deep—and it is unlikely that the whale will voluntarily
enter water of that depth.

 

 

“Notche”, the ﬁn whale trapped off the Belize coast

Stormy, along with representatives of the Belize and
Massachusetts Audubon Societies and the New York Zoological
Society, met with a special commission formed'by Eduardo Juan,
Minister of Fisheries for Belize.

The government of Belize has a long history of conservation
within its borders, an area of rich rain forests and unparalleled
wildlife resources. With the aid of the Audubon Society, World
Wildlife Fund-US, and the New York Zoological Society, a jaguar
preserve has been formed (the ﬁrst of its kind within the area)
in an attempt to protect these magniﬁcent and threatened
creatures. The country also maintains some of the most
enlightened laws in Central America regarding the protection of
its ﬁsheries and its Mayan ruins, and Belize is an active member
of the International Whaling Commission, the body which
regulates commercial whaling on a global basis.

Stormy was chosen as an advisor to the project due to his
ten years of research with the great whales of the North Atlantic,
including the successful rescues of three free-swimming humpback
whales entangled in ﬁshing gear off the Massachusetts coast. After
conferring with other - cetologists, Stormy has made several
recommendations to the Belize government regarding possibilities
for guiding the ﬁn whale back into the open ocean.

submitted by Karen Steuer

*Editor’s Note: As this newsletter went to press, we learned that
the fin whale which had been the object of so much attention
has died. At this time, the cause of death is unknown, although
starvation is suspected. As we learn additional facts, we’ll keep
you posted. .

PHO TOGRAPHING WHALES?"

A number of members have asked for advice on photographing
whales. Phil Clapham provides the following suggestions.

“Correct exposure can be tricky, as the whale is generally
the darkest thing in the photograph. Consequently, if you have
the sky or the glare in the viewﬁnder when you take a light reading,
these will tend to fool your camera’s light meter, and the whale
may be incorrectly exposed. Instead, take light readings directly
off the surface of the water. (It’s ﬁne to get the sky in the picture
itself, but leave it out of your viewﬁnder when taking a light
reading). For the same reason, if your camera has an automatic
exposure system with a manual option, go to manual. If the whale
is in the glare when you photograph it, overexpose by an f stop
or so.

“The other important aspect of photographing whales is
shutter speed. Whales move, and so does the boat on which you’re
standing, so shoot fast: at least 1/250th of a second, preferably
faster if the available light allows. If the whale is very active (e.g.
breaching), 1/1000th of second will give you sharp pictures that

void blurring.

“Conserve ﬁlm at a distance. People have a tendency to shoot
as soon as they see the whale; what they invariably get is a picture
of a great deal of water with a tiny dot in the center. Protest as
you will, even the most loyal friends may refuse to believe that
they are looking at a whale. Whalewatching boats generally get
reasonably close views of whales, so wait for a while.

“Film—For color use the slowest ASA that light will allow.
Kodachrome 64 is an excellent ﬁlm, but you can’t use it on dark
days, especially with large lenses. For black and white, try Ilford
FP—5; if you have restricted light, Ilford HP—S or Kodak Tri-X (both
ASA 400) will give you considerable latitude.

“Finally, lenses—A 70-210mm zoom is a ﬁne lens with which
to photograph whales (also, the'variable photo length allows for
better composition of the shot). If money is no object, buy a
300mm telephoto, but be careful which one you select. There
are a lot of cheap ones on the market, but it’s probably true to
say that, where optical quality is concerned, you get what you
pay for. A 35-70mm zoom is also good to have along, in case
the whale takes an interest in the boat and comes up alongside.
Have fun, but don’t spend so much time hung up with your camera
that you don’t look at the whale!”

WHALING UPDA TE

Some of our members have expressed an interest in keeping
abreast of the international situation regarding the killing of
whales. Here, and in future newsletters, we’ll try to keep you up
to date on the workings of the International Whaling Commission
(the IWC was established by treaty in 1946, and currently boasts
more than 40 nations as members), and its attempts at “managing ’
whale stocks on a global basis. However, commercial whaling is
not the only factor operating against the survival of whales:
pollution, increased shipping trafﬁc, high noise levels in the sea,
pirate whaling, and decreases in the availability of food due to
overexploitation of ﬁshing stocks are all threats to cetaceans. One
of the most important biological challenges of our generation is
bringing an end to the needless slaughter of these animals—it
shoud be part of a commitment by all nations to preserve wildlife
for future generations.

Today, there is much talk among journalists and some
conservationists regarding the fact that the whales have been
“saved”, thanks to the existence of the current moratorium on

I




commercial whaling. Much as we’d like to admit that this is the
case, I fear that it is, for the most part, just “talk” from those
who do not have an understanding of the entire situation. Let’s

' try to get some of the facts in order regarding the supposed

moratorium on just one of the species involved -—the sperm whale.

During the 1972 United Nations Conference on the Human
Environment (a separate organization from the IWC), 53 countries
adopted a U.S. proposal calling for a 10 year moratorium on
commercial whaling. In 1979, partly in response to that vote, the
IWC approved a ban on pelagic, or open ocean, whaling by factory
ships for all species except minke whales. (Allow me a slight
divergence here, on the status of minke whales. Once thought
to be too small for whalers to consider taking, they have become
the prime target of pelagic whalers since the reckless slaughter
of all larger, more lucrative species has resulted in the larger
animals’ depletion. Is this effective management?) In the meantime,
the IWC grew until, by 1982, more than 2/3 of the world’s
population—including that of many non-whaling nations—was
represented in the IWC.

At the 1981 meeting of the IWC, a proposal was put forth

for a zero quota for sperm whales. The zero quota was approved.
by a vote of 25—1 (Japan casting the only negative vote). At the ‘

same time, another important proposal was adopted by consensus:
beginning with the 1982/83 whaling season, a ban was
implemented on the use of the non-explosive (called “cold”)
grenade harpoon, which was being used to kill the relatively small
minke whales (the cold harpoon saved more of the meat in these
smaller animals, but caused prolonged suffering prior to death).
An increase in the minke quota, to 1030 whales in the Southern
Hemisphere, was the price that conservationists had to pay as
a “trade-off” for the passage of the sperm whale and cold harpoon
bans.

These trade-offs and political “wheeling and dealing” are
common in the IWC. In 1978, for example, Japan threatened to
cancel a $9.7 million sugar deal with Panama unless that country
dropped a proposal at the IWC for a whaling moratorium. Panama
not only dropped the proposal, it withdrew from the IWC!

At the 1984 meeting of the IWC, a ﬁve year moratorium on
commercial whaling was ﬁnally approved, to begin in 1986. At
the end of the ﬁve year period, whale stocks will be reassessed,
and a decision will be made regarding the possible continuance
of the moratorium for another ﬁve years. This is in itself a
questionable situation—all whale populations have been heavily
exploited and almost all are seriously depleted. Prior practices
for estimating the population dynamics of whale stocks and their
exploitation have been highly questionable on both biological and
statistical grounds. In this light, the benign studies being done
by CRP on population dynamics of ﬁn, humpback, and right
whales in the New England area becomes even more important.

In November of 1984, in direct conﬂict with IWC policy (sup-
posedly supported by the U.S.), the U.S. entered into a bilateral
agreement with Japan, offering the Japanese the freedom to con-
tinue commercial whaling into 1987. This agreement allows the
Japanese to take 400 sperm whales a year in both the 1986 and
1987 seasons, if Japan agrees to stop whaling by 1988. (It is worth
noting that, at the time the deal was signed, the U.S. had a $30
billion trade deﬁcit with Japan.)

This agreement ignored U.S. power to invoke the Packwood-
Magnuson Amendment to the Fishery Conservation and
Management Act of 1976, which reduces the amount of ﬁsh
Japanese ﬁshermen would be permitted to take from U.S. waters
by at least 50%. Estimates of the value of those ﬁsh range from
$200-500 million a year. Under U.S. law, the sanctions are to
be invoked against any country that reduces the effectiveness of
an international ﬁshing agreement (like the IWC) to which the

U.S. is party.

Following the signing of the agreement with Japan, U.S.
conservation organizations brought suit against Secretary of
Commerce Malcolm Baldrige and Secretary of State George
Schultz for failure to enact the Packwood-Magnuson Amendment.
Following a year and a half in the lower courts, where all decisions .
came down in favor of the conservationists, and were then
appealed by the Commerce and State Departments (and during
which the Japanese continued to kill sperm whales), the Supreme
Court in June of this year overtuned all lower court decisions in
favor of the Japanese, Baldrige, and Schultz by a vote of 5-4.

Why? -

The majority conclusion of the Supreme Court was related
to the question of interpretation of the Amendment. “The
Secretary’s decision to secure the certainty of Japan’s future com-
pliance with the 1984 plan (of the IWC), rather than rely on the
possibility that certiﬁcation and imposition of economic sanctions
would produce the same or better results, is a reasonable con-
truction of the Pelly and Packwood Amendments.” In non-judicial

,language, the majority of the Justices were of the opinion that
‘ 800 sperm whales were a sufﬁcient trade-off for a guarantee that

the Japanese would stop whaling in 1988.

There’s only one major ﬂaw with this line of thought; that
was expressed in the minority conclusion of the Court. The
Commerce and State Departments do not have a commitment
of compliance from the Japanese in relation to anything other
than sperm whales! While the U.S. claims that Japan also agreed
to withdraw its objection to the full IWC moratorium as part of
the deal, the Japanese contend that their Washington delegation
was empowered to talk only about sperm whales, not about all
commercial whaling.

We can only wait and see.

submitted by Karen Steurer

 

NOUVEAU FISHE

The Center’s Fish Education Project continues to grow and ex-
pand, reaching more of the general public, as well as marketers, pro-
cessors, and educators. There is a growing concern about the future
stocks of cod, haddock, and ﬂounder and a willingness to expand
and experiment with lesser-known species, many of which are highly
rewarding both to the palate and the pocketbook.

On June 18th, the Center hosted a Trash Fish cookout at the
Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution during a meeting of the Joint
WHOI/MIT Ocean Industries Consortium. The cookout was a huge
success, showing many indicator’ 5 palates the treasure of underutilized
ﬁsh.

The third weekend in July the Center participated in the An-
nual Boston Seafood Festival. The Festival, a celebration of seafood,
is organized by the University of Massachusetts Cooperative Exten-
sion Service. Many organizations, such as Marine Educators, the
Gloucester Fishermen’s Museum, New England Fisheries Develop-
ment Foundation and others attended and sponsored display booths.
There were cooking displays, processing demonstrations, sea chan-
ty singing, crafts for children, and many other activities.

The Center used this opportunity to distribute its newly printed
publication, “Trash Fish Banquet Guide”. This brochure is a week
by week workplan on how to organize a Trash Fish Banquet in your
own town. It is a simple guide, explaining what needs to be done,
how to do it, and when each task must be completed in order to
assure success. The Center has organized seven Trash Fish Banquets

 




and has amassed a great deal of experience in creating a successful
event; this guide will assist others in this endeavor.

We are also willing to advise anyone in setting up a Banquet.
Simply give the Center a call and we will answer any questions. Center
staff are also available on a consulting basis and, for a fee, will travel
to other towns and assist with planning and implementation.

Our publication, “Nouv‘eau Fishe: A Guide to Underutilized
Seafood”, is still available from the Center for $4 plus $1 for shipping
and handling. This book offer descriptions and background
information on the availability of many underutilized species, as well
as recipes, some of which came from past Trash Fish Banquets in
Provincetown.

The Center’s Eighth Annual Trash Fish Banquet has been
scheduled for Thursday September 25. The Banquet will again be
hosted by the Lobster Pot Restaurant on Commercial Street in Pro-
. vincetown. Joy and Tim McNulty were instrumental in making last
year’s event a major success, and we all look forward to working with

them again this year. Contact the Center to purchase tickets for this
acclaimed and unique event.

" T IMELY NOTE - The blueﬁsh are running and are very abun-
dant in New England. Bluefish is a dark-ﬂeshed, strong -ﬂavored ﬁsh

that is a favorite of anglers due to the fight it puts up on the rod. '

Chefs, however, do not hold this ﬁsh in the same awe as do the
anglers, and much of what is caught is wasted. Blueﬁsh is excellent
on the grill, and bakes and broils well. Because of its strong ﬂavor,
blueﬁsh should be served either with simply oil or butter and light
seasoning to enhance its own ﬂavor, or with a strong garlic, tomato,
and onion sauce to complement the ﬂavor of the ﬁsh.

submitted by Peggy Christian

STAFF NEWS:

1986 SUMMER INTERNS - Aiding the Cetacean Research Program
during the summer season (and gleaning quite a bit of knowledge
for themselves!) are Jessica Mark, a biophysics major at Harvard
University; Paul Patev, who holds a BS. in biology from Bridgewater
State College; Sybilla Scott, a biology major at Mary Washington Col-
lege; Karen Terry, a biology major at the University of Vermont; and
Paul Ticco, who holds a MA. in environmental sciences from the
University of Virginia. A hearty welcome to all!

COASTAL
BIOLOGY] ECOLOGY

COASTWATCH

In the last issue of the newsletter, we announced the Coastwatch
schedule through July of 1986. These coastal science expeditions
will be led by Center staff scientists every Saturday throughout the
summer. Participants will explore coastal environments, Ieaming
about the ecology of plant and animal life, and the processes involv-
ed in the formation of these habitats on Cape Cod. The walks are
open to the public; there is no charge for members, and a $5 fee
will be asked of non-members. Participants are requested to register
by calling the Center (487-3622) at least one day prior to the trip.
The schedule for the remainder of the summer follows:

August 23 (9:00 am): Dunes Crossing
A strenuous hike transecting the Cape from Provincetown Harbor
to the ocean beach will enable participants to observe a wide range

-pf habitats. The ecology of the dunes and associated environments

will be investigated, including physical processes, wildlife, and man’s
impact on the Province Lands.

August 30 (2:00): Crass Beds/Tidal Flats

This wading/snorkeling trip surveys the physical, chemical and
biological processes at work on sand ﬂats and in adjacent grassbeds
in Provincetown Harbor. Special plant and animal adaptations for
life in these complex coastal environments will be examined.

September 6 (9:00 am): Fresh Water Ponds

The formation and ecology of Provincetown’s shallow, fresh water
ponds will be discussed, focusing on the aquatic plant and animal
communities inhabiting the ponds. The relationship between the
ponds and the water table will be explained. This trip will involve
much wading and sorting through material in the ponds. Old sneakers

are a must. Long pants and insect repellent are strongly
recommended.

September 13 (12:00 noon): Barrier Beach

This hike will encompass a barrier beach, tidal ﬂats, salt marsh,
and dunes. The geological history of the formation of Cape Cod and
the Provincetown Hook will be discussed. Onsite observation of
coastal processes involving barrier beach migration and tidal inlet

dynamics will be used to help explain the development of the
environments we encounter.

 

Non-Profit

Center for Coastal Studies us. pom.
BOX 826 ' ""°

Provincetown
MA 02657
Permit No. 26

- Provincetown
Massachusetts 02657

 

 




 

WHALE from preceding page

Humphrey’s reappearance comes just as the center is
gearing up for another‘rescue mission — this one in
southeast Alaska.

All the leftover money from the Humphrey Fund -—
about $2, 000 —— has been sent up north to help in the
rescue of about 100 harbor seals, sea lions, and porpoises
trapped in Russell Lake, near Yakutat Bay.

The emergency was created by a “surging” glacier,
which sealed oil“ the mouth of Russell Fiord and turned it
into Russell Lake. . .

The glacial activity is a golden opportunity for scien-
tists studying why these giant masses of ice son‘ietimes
accelerate -—- in this case moving ahead as much as 46 ft.
3 day. But it could spell disaster for the sea mammals
trapped in the lake, Barrett says. .

Melting glacial ice has raised the level of Russell Lake
05 ft. since the ﬁord was sealed off in June. The runoff,
however, is fresh water, and it is changing the briny
ecosystem that is the habitat of the sea mammals

“Mped w.e

The fresh-water melt is creating a surface “lens” over
the salt water, depleting the underwater oxygen content,
Barrett explains. Already, ﬁsh in the area are dying,
leaving the mammals with less and less to eat. The
rescue eﬂ'ort, which is likely to involve airlifting the
porpoises out of the lake by helicopter, may cost as much
as $30, 000

Humphrey s reappearance could not have come at a

 

Researchers coaxmg' Humphrey 'out'ofa slough leaf fall

better time, she says, showing skeptics that efforts to
save these animals can be effective.

Though some argue that man should not try to avert
the effects of natural phenomena on animals, this view
holds no water with Barrett. She says the ocean environ-
ment is no longer entirely natural because of man’s

’ . ; n 10 “h‘ Ah as
‘ranmtic’ impact on it. Man JD nut av much master of

I the planet as he is an integral part of a delicate balance,

she adds.

“We may not save one animal,” Barrett concedes. “But
we aim to make a genuine, honest try at giving them a
second chance.” -

As for Humphrey, he’s believed to have made a round
trip to the tropics since last fall, reappearing in the area
recently with other migrating humpbacks.

‘ avi/‘omuaxaiu

,5...—

 

p...

 




merit, joining ranks with other alumni w [Thave followed

 

 

 

space

3 lost unless
:e pubhsher

:hievement — or the re-
you might say —- of preemi-
oe . . . or continuing along as

'99'

uzation is deeply critical of
volicy-setting structure in the
we, the Senior Interagency
. It recommends the f orma-
irate, independent body with
l to the President, such as a
rel department, or a
National Aeronautics and
i1.
t report calls, among other
loubling the space budget to
programs as advanced re-
aterials, rocket engines, and
echnological elements needed
he next generation of launch
ispacecraft.
apares an American retreat
to Britain’s withdrawal as a
ower. He recalls: “Britain . . .
iparable decision back in the
f this century when they . . .
l their marine dominance of
; that time. We are in the same
v in regard to space. We could
ur dominance of space by sim-
ing with budgets as they have

roposes an aggressive space

at includes a continued com--

l the permanently manned
in. It urges the US to study
)r joint US~Soviet exploration
nd it advises the country to
ct that, while space ﬂight is
gens a very promising new

riew, the next major industry
space, and a revolution compa-
e micro-electronics revolution
Grey says. He adds, “It’s still
I stages to be sure. But unless
[space leadership] and main-
:ad, . . . those large lucrative
11 go to other nations who are
tctively pursuing a strong com-
space activity."

!_$3:..

By Cheryl Sullivan
Staff writer of The Christian Science Monitor
' San Francisco

Call it a ﬂuke.

Marine biologists on an expedition off
the Paciﬁc Coast thought they had spot=
ted a familiar ﬁn." But with more than
1,000 humpbacks cruising the ..wide Pa-
ciﬁc, who’d ever think they would run
across the one and only Humphrey the
whale?

Humphrey became something of a ce—
lebrity last October when he detoured
into San Francisco Bay and became
trapped in the San Joaquin delta After a
25—day ordeal, during which desperate
rescuers ﬁnally coaxed him back to the

Gate Bridge and disappeared.

He hadn‘t been seen since, until a team
of marine biologists with the Cascadia
Research Collective of Olympia, Wash,

tioed a familiar-looking fluke, or tail,
among a group of whales sighted about 3 1

 

l miles northwest of the Golden Gate.

bay, the whale crossed under the Golden.

spotted him Aug 16. The researchers no- .

Whale of a ta . Humphrey the humpback shows his nukes ell Pt. Reyes, Calif.

Huinphrey the whale frolics,
but ice traps other mammals

Last week the scientists were able to
positively identify Humphrey by compar-
ing ﬂuke photos. The new picture by one
of the biologists is a perfect match to a
photo of Humphrey taken last fall.

“A humpback will have a distinctive
blaCk-and—white patterning on its ﬂuke,”

explains Peigin Barrett, executive direc-

tor of the California Marine Mammal Cen-
ter at the edge of the bay in Sausalito.
Identifying humpbacks by their ﬂukes is
as deﬁnitive as identifying people by
their ﬁngerprints. , .

Ms. Barrett says it’s gratifying to know
that Humphrey is “acting quite nor-
mally,” apparently experiencing no ill ef—
fects from being stuck in a shallow irriga-
tion canal on the Sacramento River. The
center spent almost $30,000 to rescue
Humphrey -— most of it donated by peo-
ple whose hearts went out to the confused
humpback. -

“Pbople all over the world could see
him on television, trapped, and they could
identify with him,” she says. .

0 Clinic} ' lam, - lug/1,1057? 3';3.3f;g‘6f:’;i73f1

 




 

i‘é

1'. ;’/{t€t

'o

 

EECN Inquiry Explodes Myth
Behind Kangaroo Kill

. Australia’s legal slaughter of nearly two
i million kangaroos and wallabies this year
’ is based on myth rather than science.

' That is the conclusion drawn by key
conservationists from an inquiry .
conducted with Government wildlife
agencies by the Australian Committee of
IUCN (lntemational Union for the
Conservation of Nature and Natural
Resources).

, The Director of the Australian
Conservation Foundation, Dr J.G. Mosley.
who is a Regional Councillor on lUCN's
World Council representing Australia and
Oceania and is a member of lUCN's
Australian Committee said the national
survey of government research efforts on

3. kangaroos showed the quota set by the
Australian Government rested on myths.

i "The kangaroo killing quota set by the
Australian Government for 1985 allows a

! kangaroo or wallaby to be killed in

Australia every 16 seconds - a kill of

1,986,000”, Dr Mosley said. .

"Our Committee of lUCN in Australia
. i has found that the national kill quotas are ’
5 being set in the absence of research by .‘

 

‘ - F’ wildlife authorities which would prove that' .
. _ ' kangaroos are agricultural pests. The so- .1-‘ -
_' - g called Kangaroo Management: .. :r , ".0. My

Programme has no sound basis. There is

nowhere near sufﬁcient scientiﬁc
evidence to kill nearly 2 million
kangarooos as pests.

“In their replies to the inquiry.
Government wildlife agencies around
Australia agreed there is a need for
research into the so—called‘ pest status' of
kangaroos. But they are starved for funds

and tend to channel their limited research .

funds into what they consider are more
threatened species.

“Meanwhile Australians are earning a
reputation abroad for barbarism."

Dr Mosley said that in March last year
the Australian Committee of IUCN had
written to nine government wildlife
management agencies. State, Territorial
and Commonwealth on the question of
research into the so called “pest” status
of kangaroos. These were all the wildlife
agencies involved. a

The IUCN committee focussed on the
importance of research into the' ‘"pest
status of kangaroos, particularly in native
pastures and rangelands, and
encouraged the allocation of greater

- - research funds to assess the true position

on conﬂict. ‘ _ r
Dr Mosley said

.\ll'_-.‘

Service, had responded.

agencies, except the.
Queensland Nation§l Parks and Wildlife 3.; -,..

Four of the eight respondents had
agreed that there was a need in Australia
for research into the “pest" status of
kangaroos None considered that this
should be given higher priority than
research into the smaller, less well-known
macropod species.

} "We cannot go on killing kangaroos at

- this rate in Australia in the absence of

i solid scientific evidence". Dr Mosley said.
“Most Australians are becoming aware

. that the industry is calling the tune — and
it's the death-knell for a free and gentle
animal that all around the wor1d is the -
symbol of Australia.”

The Australian Conservation
Foundation has been at the forefront of
efforts to achieVe sc ientifically-based
conservation of kangaroos.

In March last year the ACF Council
adopted a strong policy on "Kangaroo

_ Harvesting" which recognised the right of
kangaroos to exist independently of-
human needs and endorsed their status
“wildlife species". - '

asACF‘s policy l3 opposed to kangaroos
being killed primarily for their commercial
value and to the establishment and

maintenance of a kangaroo industry. .

 

\

 

 

 




0871/8: AWI Newsletter, Galley 21

Sumatran rhino

The Sumatran rhino looks quite different
from his African cousins, hut he, too, has
been pushed to the very lirink ()l‘extint'tion
because of the anachronistic myth that his
horn is an apht‘otlisiat and a ture lot a
variety oi (lis¢;*ases‘. A Malaysian activist
group is lighting for the protet'tion ol the
Cttma'mn rhino and advocates keeping the.
wit; rhinos in Sahah and seeking to
it it numbers there by setting tip a
’:. ility atitl lothitltling (levelop—
tit toat‘htnent into areas where the
ttnatran rhino still lives. Those wishing to
help protect these unique creatures may
write to:
Asia—Pat‘ilie‘ People’s Environment
Network
(/0 Sahahat Alant Malaysia
37, Lorong Birch
Penang
WEST MALAYSIA

 




- .- C'r’ .‘I g'i'i‘ K“ C

For an ".OUl' before the meeting about 30 demonstrators marched
through the college grounds shouting slogans and looking for
laborator'es, but they found the doors of some of the buildings
rocked.

They fnally met Dr Brain in the foyer of the Natural Sciences
building.

Dr. Bra it said the studies were both useful and relevant and were
carried oat in a fully humane manner and in a way approved by the
Home Of‘ice.

He said he rejected allegations that the experiments were
unnecessary.

Mr. Smith said he was satisfied with the meeting but not happy. "It
was not a waste of time. It was probably a success. Perhaps we have
got through to a few people," he said.

Dr. Bran said later that the work was aimed at alleviating serious
human conditions. ”No one would deny that aggression, alcoholism
and drug abuse are serious problems, ” he said.

ltester” Zia/1’ Cardiff 13/3. 85

Q.‘ f. . .‘ i
i - . or»

(My italics -— Ed.) 80 . .. now we know! This has got to rate
amongst the most pathetic scientiﬁc comments of the month.
Almost as good as the Toronto scientist who said rats enjoyed
receiving electric shocks.

Perhaps readers would like to send in their favourite scientists'
'pearls' . . . we could offer an award for 'Scientiﬁc Codswallop of the
Month' (or Moron of the Month if you prefer!) —- ideas for a suitable
award would also be appreciated!

J.C.

BROXBOURNE ZOO UPDATE

Readers may recall the reports about Broxbourne Zoo,
Hertfordshire in The Campaigner some time ago, when it
had been referred to as one of the worst zoos in Britain.
Local campaigners were publicising the dreadful
conditions the animals were, and still are, kept in.
Recently renamed ‘Paradise Park’ after a change of
ownership, this particular hell-hole has now applied for a
licence under the new Zoo Licensing Act. Local
campaigners have formed the Broxbourne Zoo Action
Group. c/o Box 79, Exeter. Please help by writing letters
to: The Local Licensing Ofﬁcer, Leahoe House, County
Hall, Hertford, Herts., asking for the application to be
refused on grounds that standards of accommodation,
Staffing and management are inadequate for the proper
care and well being of the animals, as laid down in section
4 (3) of the Zoo Licensing Act 1981. Contact the Action
Group for information and futher advice on how you can
help.

“SCIENTISTS LOVE ANIMALS”
. . . “THEY ARE VERY CARING
PEOPIHE”

. Cambridge . . . two vivisectors go off on holiday,
leaving their victims to sur'r‘er the consequences of their
“work" . .(see below)

Following the Royal College of Surgeons
Conviction. .Statement to Isle of Wight Mercury,
1/3/85 by RCS vice- president, David Innes Williams
“The college regrets any suffering caused and tries to
minimise that suffering. .But we don’t believe that the
animalin this case did suffer.” (I’d like to put this forward
for idiotic statement of the month — J.C.)

TWO LOSE LICENCES TO EXPERIMENT ON ANIMALS
SCIENTISTS BANNED

 

Two Cambridge scientists have been banned by the Home Office l
7

from experimenting on animals after inflicting unnecessary pain on a
dog.

The pair, who have not been officially named, have had their five-
year Government licences revoked — an extremely rare penalty for
infringing the Cruelty to Animals Act.

lt is understood from various sources that the incident which led to
the bans happened at Cambridge University's School of Clinical
Medicine. Two senior staff working under supervision on transplant
research are said to have operated on a dog which was then left
unattended for some time time. One source said: "The dog was used
fora routine operation and researchers went off somewhere leaving
the animal in a fairly poor state. lts condition deteriorated and they
were not around to deal with it".

it is believed the dog was then put out of its misery.

”Another scientist who was visiting at the time tried to repair the
damage, but without success".

The "News" has been given the names of the two researchers
involved, but attempts to confirm them have run into a wall of silence.

The Home Office refuses to discuss the case, claiming that details of
licences granted for animal experiments are confidential.

But a spokesman did admit: "Revoking a licence is a very serious
matter.”

Only one other was revoked in the four years up to 1983. There are
currently some 12,000 licence holders in the country.

Bill
The shock bans come hard on the heels of a successful prosecution of
the Royal College of Surgeons for mistreating a monkey.

One influential source in the animal experiments field said: ”These
two incidents are concerning the Home Office tremendously with a

new cruelty to animals Bill expected in the Queens Speech.

”This increases the pressure from some scientists to make it a legal
requirement for vets to have the power to step in if the researcher is
not available, as happened in the Cambridge case.

He added: ”The incident has caused great consternation among
researchers just as we are trying to reassure the public that
everything possible is being done for the welfare of animals used in
experiments — particularly when it happens in such an august place
as Cambridge."

Attempts
Staff at the clinical and veterinary schools at Cambridge are said to be
at loggerheads over attempts to keep the bans quiet.

it took more than six months for the Home Office to take action. The
incident happened last year and official notification ofthe decision to
revoke the licences was given in January.
Cambridge Evening News, 28/2/85.

THE SECRECY THAT ONLY
HELPS THE EXTREMISTS

If we ever need an example ofthe urgent requirement for new laws
on access to official information it is today's revelations about two
Cambridge scientists being banned from experimenting with
animals.

No one will name them The Home Office and other authorities
insist the full details should be confidential.

Animal research is such an explosive and emotive topic that such
ridiculous oppressive secrecy can only aid the wild and dangerous
activities of some of the more militant members of the animal rights
campaign.

All that an unhelpful Home Office spokesman would say was that
revocation of a licence to experiment on animals was a very serious
matter.

It could affect somebody’s livelihood in a dramatic way.

That is surely right. In view of public disquiet and scientists’ defence
of their activities reported on these pages, anyone who breaks the
rules and trangresses the thin line between necessary pain and
cruelty, should be subject to some penalty.

We have a right to know who has broken carefully-thought-out
guidelines and we are certainly entitled to the full background to
”serious" decisions taken in our name.

By refusing to publish decisions of this kind the Government is
playing into the hands of the extremists and giving even reasonable
members of the public cause for concern.

 




~—~

illinister pledges new law for laboratories

Government cash to curb

By Andrew Veitch.
' Medical Correspondent

The ﬁrst Government grant
to projects aimed at reducing
the numbers of live animals
used in medical experiments
iwas announced 3esterda3 with
.a promise for extensi1e new
.legal controls on laboratories

l The mone3 -— up to £200 000
01er three years — will go to
Frame, the Fund for the Re.
fplaeement of Animals in Medi
.cal Experiments, said the
lHome Office junior minister,
'5 Mr David Mellor.

l
,l The main project will be an
'investigation into the extent to
which human tissue cultured
lin test tubes could replace ani-
mals in experiments. That 11"?
imean persuading bereaved rel-
ati1'es,to agree to the donation
of organs such as livers. kid-
neys, and lungs.

The second project will be
aimed at validating alternative
(non-animal) tests in collabora-
tion with laboratories around
the world, and the third will
imolve setting up an interna-
tional database on tissue cul-
ture techniques.

The number of animals
used in experiments has fallen
from 56 million in 1971 to 4. 2
million in 1982 Last year’s ﬁg-
ures. due to be published next
month, will show a further
decline. -

Most of the experiments are

__.1..'—.

 

 

~"

BXUEE 1111 1311 ES (1 El. 3125111

 

 

Mr David Mellor:
experzments will continue

on mice — 2.4 million in 1982.
More than 18.000 animals were
used for testing cosmetics.

Legislation will be based on
last year‘s White Paper, said
Mr Mellor, whose London
home was earlier this year
daubed with anti-vivisection
slogans. . .

Anyone wanting to perform
experiments on animals will
have to submit details and say
wh3 the experiments cannot be
performed without animals.

Applicants will need the sup-
port of an independent referee
and borderline applications,
with all those for cosmetic
testing. will be referred to the
Home Office advisor3 commit-
tee chaired b3 Dame Mary
V1arnock

.- -I'Y LL11. A43 5- -

. ..
‘u. a... 05‘ ‘

-the 1876 Cruelty

1113.118 3

Procedures not cortrolled b3 L
to Animals
Act —- such as the transfer of

cancer tumours from one ani I

ma] to another will be’
brought under control, and 1.9-1
searchers will only be able to
obtain animals from. licensed
establishments.

“ The Home Ofﬁce wants to
ensure that ‘animal "-experi
ments are carried out only
where there are no alterna-
t11es " Mr Mellor said. But he
added: “The number ot_ex-
periments will countinue in
the millions for the ioreseablei
futuref'. . I

Dr Michael Balls. senior'lec-
turer at hottingliham Univjer-
sit3 medical school and chair-
man of Frame welcomed the.
grant 3esterda3 as a signiﬁcant
and highl3 useful amount. i

“We hope to make 1er3' good'
use of 1t,“ he said.

Main objectives will be to
get rid of the notorious Draize
tests in which chemicals are
injected into the eyes of live
rabbits, and the LD 50 proce-
dure in which hundreds of ani-
mals.are sacriﬁced to ﬁnd the
dose at which half die (LD'50
means lethal dose 50 per cent);

Human tissue is already
used extensively 'in cancer re»;
search and in the productioni
of genetically. engineered
drugs Dr Balls added. “The
alternatives to animals owill be;
cheaper more humane more
scientiﬁc and more >1'aluable.'_f,

,1-‘ ._..."

 

 




and him

 

iner Berliner Tierhéndlerin wur-

den von einer Ziichterin aus Bay-
em Hauskatzen zugesandt. die bei
der Ankunft zu mager und durch-
weg erkrankt waren. Die «Zﬁchte-
rim wurde mit einem BuBgeld von
5000 Mark bestraft. lhre Be-
schwerde lehnte das Kammerge-
richt ab.

Kﬁchenschaben halten sich den
ganzen Tag ﬁber immer in den-
selben Verstecken auf. In der
Nacht gehen sie auf Nahrungssu-
che. Wie jetzt Gﬁnter Seelinger

von der Universitat Regensburg-

feststellte, halten sich unverpaarte
Weibchen mit zunehmendem Alter
immer langer auBerhalb der Ver-
stecke auf und locken die Mann-
Chen mit Riechstoﬁen an. Diese
fliegen gegen den Wind bis zu 28
Meter weit zu ihnen.

Nachdem der Filmstar Marlon
Brando vier Wochen lang ver—
geblich nach seinem Lieblingshund
Winky hane suchen lassen und
auch 30000 Mark Finderlohn nicht
halien, hat er nun einen Wahrsa-
ger fﬁr ein Tageshonorar von 1000
Mark verpflichtet, den Promena-
denrnischling zu finden. Wenig
trbstlich: Tierfreunde boten dem
Star 203 andere Hunde an.

 

Far die Wﬁsten Arabians:
Kamele werden jetzt zahlreich
aus Australian eingefﬂhn.

aum zu glauben: Saudi-Arabian

kauﬁ in Australien Renndrome-
oare. Diese Wiistentiere, die einst
als Reit- und Tragtiere eingethn
worden sind, haben sich vor allem
in Nordausrralien ungemein ver-
mehrt. Da es in Nordafrika nicht
mehr genug Kamele gibt, will jetzt
Austraiien die Tiere in gréBerem
MaBe ausfﬁhren. wahrend man
1971 nur 22 000 Kamele in Austra-
lien zahlte, sind es inzwischen fiber
80000. Eine interessante Begleit—
erscheinung: Mi: den Dromedaren
wurden im vorigen Jahrhunden
Iausend Moslems, vor allern aus
Pakistan, als Kameltreiber in den
.‘ “IE“ Erma.“ oeho"

erspeist nicht nur Disteln: 150 Pﬂanzenbrten
dienen dem Distelﬁnk als Nahrung.

 

Unter einer Rattenplage ohne-
gleichen leidet Agypten. Jéhr-
lich werden rund ein Fiinftel der
Ermeertrége durch die gefréBigen
Nager verspeist. 50000 Manner
waren kﬁrzlich gegen diese Plage
im Einsatz. Das Ergebnis: 56 Millio-
nen Ranen wurden das Opfer von
Flammenwen‘ern.

Mi! einer Notbrernsung brachte
ein Lokomotiv‘fiihrer auf der
Strecke zwischen London und Bri~
stol seinen Intercity zum Stehen,
weil sich ein junger Schwan auf
dem Gleise niedergelassen hane.
Nur mit groBer Miihe konnte der
Vogel verscheucht werden. Die
Zugversp'atung betrug 18 Minuten.

rlreuliches gibt es von den indi-

schen Konigstigern 2u berichten.
wahrend 1972 nur noch 1872 Tiere
gezahlt wurden, hat man 1984 un-
geféhr 4000 der selxenen Wildkat-
zen in Freiheit registrien. Urn die
Jahrhundertwende gab es in In-
dien noch schatzungsweise 40000
Tiger.

in Hund im Haus ist die beste

Alarmanlage. Eine Umfrage bei
den Polizeibehorden von 50 bun-
desdeutschen GroBstédten ergab,
daB in Haushalten mit Hund weit-
aus weniger eingebrochen wird.
Nach Beobachtungen der Krimina-
listen stellten die meisten Einbre-
cher zunachst fest, ob ein Hund in
der Wohnanlage sei, und wDrden
sich bei Anwesenheit der «bellen-
den Alarmanlage) dann in der Re-
gel einem anderen Objekt zuwen-
den.

Die Rekordzahl von 73 Eiern legte
in der Saison 1984 die Silben‘a-
sanhenne eines deutschen Zﬁch-
ters. Die «Wunderhenne» war ihm
1979 zugelaufen. Der Durchschnitt
liegt normalerweise bei ungeféhr
7‘: Elem oro Jehr

‘J

Kain Rauschgift, sondern Apfel
und Birnen sollen die Beagle-
Hunde (Lucky) und (Lady) mit ih-
ren empfindlichen Nasen auf dem
kalifornischen Flughafen Los An-
geles im Gepéck der Passagiere
aufstobern. Die Einfuhr von Obst
und Gemﬁse vom Ausland in die
USA is: némlich strengstens unter-
sagL

I ute Tischs'men hat Paoageien~
dame Lora aus Altenkircnen irn
‘Westerwald. Als ihre Besitzer Els-
beth und Hans H117. der Blaustim-
amazone einen gefﬁllten Loﬁel rnit
Reis durchs Gmer reicmen, ergn'ﬁ
das kluge Tier eines Tages plou-
lich das E89erét und thne es «ge-
smetn zum Schnabel. Seither
speist Lora Fleischwurst, Kanol‘lel-
salat und Speiseeis — ihre Lieb-
lingsspeisen -— stets mit dem L61-
fel. Noch etwas beherrscht Lora
ausgezeichnet: Das Gerausch von
am Plannenrand aulgeschlagenen
Eierschalen ahmt sie téuschend
nach. Gaste vermuten eine Spie-
geleierorgie in der Kﬁche.

 

Dﬁstere Zukunhsaussichten to
dig! ein britischer Forscher

Er is! fiberzeugt, dais Kaninchen
groE wie Schweine, Mowen

AdlergréBe und Riesenméuse
mal unsere Erde beherrschen in
den. Und die Menschen ste .
dann aus. . -

Aimpunktm iémrte sic‘n BUCi'l '
der Behandlung von Hun.
und Kanen durchsetzen. Dies l
aul dem WeltkongreB fur Klein:

krankheiten zum Ausdruck Ba .
jetzt werden in den USA rnit Hi
der Akupunktur die zur Bena

lung kranker Heimtiere erforde
chen Medikameme reduzien.

in Sonderpostwertzeichen

dem Thema «Rene! den Wal
wird die Deutsche Bundesu
herausgeben. Erstausgabetag
der 16.7.1985.

Die durch monalelange on.
ausgeloste Hungersnot ma-
Kenias Tiere immer aggress
Paviane haben in der Néhe
Nairobi eine Ziegenherde ﬁber!
len und dreizehn Tiere durch Bi
getotet.

ie TierschL'JIIer im Bundesln

Niedersachsen smd cm
Auch in Zukunh wnd es bei Do
men sogenanme «Schwcmcr
nen) geben. Der Landmnscna
minisxer siem in diesen Wen-
werben kemen VerstoS gegen c
Tierschutzgesetz. Er meim. daB
«Rennschweinen ausreicnend tr
niert scion.

A31: Osteuropa werden jet:
8hr etwa 30000 Pierde in -
Schlacmhoie Frankreichs bef-
dert. Oh unter katastrophel
Transponbedingungen. Die Fr
zosen verzehren in Europa na
den ltalienern das rneiste Plero'
fleisch.

Wegen fahrléssiger Brands:
tung, der 3400 Hektar W
und Buschland am Rosie Cra
(Alaska) zum Opfer fielen, fél
das Distriktgericht fiber ein
Jagdfﬁhrer folgendes Uneil: Bet
ligung an den Wiederauﬁorstun
arbeiien, Absolvierung eines Erst
Hilfe-Kurses ‘sowie vieriéhn
Dienst bei der freiwilligen Feu
wehr. AuBerdem komrm noch e:
Schadenersatzforderung von ei
Million Dollar auf den Mann zu.

ine bisher unbekannte Baren

haben zwei amerikanische F
scher in hochgelegenen Talern o
nepalesischen Himalajes entdec
Sie fanden drei interessante B
renschédel und stieBen auf frisc
von Béren stammende Spuren
Schnee. In his zu 15 Meter hob
Béumen bemerkten sie auch
sige Nester. Einheimische ha
die Béren schon gesehen und n
nen sie «Rukh bha lun, was so
wie «Baumbén bedeuteti

 




' )b

Page 2

Earthlines issue 14

 

efforts: we distributed information leaflets
in six languages to environmental groups
and journalists around the world; we
generated hundreds of letters to the
Cyprus government in support of our
campaign from as far away as the United
States and Papua New Guinea; our
research showed that virtually all the
‘special interest' tour operators in the
United Kingdom were refusing to send
parties to Cyprus simply because of the
massacre (a point that came as a
worrying revelation to the Hotel
Association and the CTO): and we
successfully used our links with other
groups worldwide to mobilise opinion.

What the campaign and its outcome have
shown beyond doubt is that eyen a small
organisation can influence a government.
provided it has a strong case and runs a
well-orchestrated programme in support
of that case.

So much for euphoria, now back to
business!

All the legislation in the world is of no use
if it is not implemented, as has been the
case here in the past. Netting and liming
have been illegal since 1974. but the law
has only very rarely been put into effect.
What seems to be new now is the
apparent determination of the government
to put a stop to these practices. Actually
applying the law will be the task of the
police. but given their past record. their
willingness to carry out these obligations
must remain uncertain.

For several years, FoE have been drawing
the attention of the authorities to the onset
of the Autumn trapping season. We have
identified the worst affected areas. and
asked the police to take action under the
existing law. in the past, they have not
only failed to do so, but their response has
been extremely disingenuous. The
tollowmg extract from a letter from the
CTO to a visitor who has complained
about the massacre of wild birds which he
had witnessed provides an example of
this attitude.

place on a greater and more blatant scale
than ever before. We found some
enormous new type of nets, about 5
metres tall and perhaps twice that in
length. which loomed like vast screens
amongst the trees and bushes. In one
place. the trappers had become so greedy
that they had even erected a net across a-
country road. blocking it for traffic! So.
despite the claims in the CTO’s letter, it
was obvious that no attempt at all was
being made to discourage the practice.
Nor. outside of the Sovereign Base Areas.
do we know of a single case of a trapper

being prosecuted or of equipment being ear;

confiscated during 1984.

It will require a radical change of attitude
by the police before we can be certain of
final success. Of course, we expect that
the new directive will be heeded. and in
view of the positive developments so far.
FOE is suspending our campaign whilst
we evaluate the new situation. We are
withholding the advertisements which
were being prepared for the British,
German, and Scandinavian Press advising
holidaymakers to avoid the
Paralimni/Protaras area if they would be
distressed by the sight of the massacre,
and we will switch the emphasis of our
international activities to promoting
encouragment and support of the
government's action.

But we shall closely monitor the
implementation of the law. To this end, we
should be grateful if our members and
supporters would immediately report to us
and to the police all instances of netting
and timing which they come across.
particularly during the Spring and Autumn
migration period. And we will not hesitate
to reactivate the campaign it it should
become clear that Decison Number
25.261 was mere “window dressing‘ aimed
at deflecting international opinion.

For the time being, however, the
enlightened action of the Council of
ministers has provided a very promising
start to the new year.

h Yl'lPlAKOZ OPFANIZMOZ TOYPlZMOY

 

Ref. 268/IX

CYPRUS TOU RlSM ORGANISATION

13th December, 1984.

3. I am also pleased to inform you that the Police Authorities have
taken drastic measures against the plactice of illegal netting and according
to Police sources "Cyprus now is free of every type of netting".

At about the time this letter was written,

_ FoE's Coordinator was in the
Paralimni/Protaras area getting some
video film of netting to use in support of
the campaign There. as in other areas
which we had reported. netting was taking

‘_Yours faithfully

' ,;., _ _. K
. ’7'L‘TT§/xfw< t

>_f'or_‘Drirector General

-ﬁ.-’ . - -

This is recycled paper

~- g-

FoE has recently received some material
from the excellent Israeli conservation
organisation. the Society for the Protection
of Nature in Israel (SPNI). The SPNI
arrange a very wide variety of ‘off the
beaten track' tours for individuals and
families, all led by an English—speaking
guide. Although lsrael is a small country. it
contains an unusual variety of wildlife.
landscapes and historical sites.

The tours leave the main roads and
penetrate into little-known and relatively
inaccessible areas. Experienced gwdes
explain the natural history and human
culture ol these regions. and point out
hidden places of great beauty and
tascmation.

The groups are limited in Size to 20 - 25
people. and have much to offer those who
seek a personal encounter with the land.
and are not satisfied With fleeting glimpses
from the Window ot a bus or car. The cost
of these tours varies from under US $20 to
about SUS 275 and vary in length from a
few hours to a week in the Sinai.
Canoeing and horse-back tours are also
available. Anyone wanting further
information about these expeditions
should contact the Embassy of lsrael, P.
O. Box 1049, Nicosia. or FoE. (it a nyone
would like to see SPNI‘s highly
informative. EnglishJanguaft-e 0
magazine “Land and Nature 1.“
be borrowed from FOE).

N r" ' '

2—1 &'

‘terly
'nay

 

o I

‘3'"

 

 

'3»

 

..

o
"I
e

_. a

 

 

tnIXII

 

' I
‘ ‘0
{alga '-
V.“

,1 . ‘ "it: 55;. ﬁ
" k_ 'g..a—jk

9, ‘ '
.2; _ . \ -:~‘ y ‘ ‘ --
"We‘re very lucky. when you thi
worhng in and: handful W. I

 

 

“_—.-_V-v-.-...._-- -.—-—- -.i-

V

 




NATURE VOL. 316 18 JULY 1985

 

SCENE lN AUSTRAlJ‘SlA

sen-l ‘lo 99.
a/IB/gs’

 

Kangaroos thriving but still threatened by drought

DESPITE rumours to the contrary, the kan-
garoo is alive and well and living in Austra—
lia. In recent years, there has been con-
siderable concern, and international press-
ure, over their commercial killing and
some fears that kangaroos could be en-
dangered. Although criticism over hunting
methods may still stand, sophisticated
aerial surveys show that there are still
plenty of kangaroos.

“Kangaroo” is not in itself a scientific
term and generally refers to the man-sized
members of the Macropods, usually the
red kangaroo (the favourite at zoos) and
the two grey kangaroos. Among smaller
members of the group, the wallabies and
rat-kangaroos, there are six endangered
species and several others that are rare,
although none is commercially hunted.

It is almost two hundred years since the
kangaroo was ﬁrst exhibited in London, at
the Lyceum in the Strand; admittance was
seemingly expensive at one shilling, but
perhaps not for “an Ocular Demonstration
[which] will exceed all that words can de-
scribe, or pencil delineate ...”. And from
that time. kangaroos have been killed for
meat, for their skins or simply as pests, by
gun by poison or by simply rounding them
up and clubbing them to death by the hun-
dreds, in the “battue” that occupied sport-
ing Australians in the nineteenth century.

More recently, kangaroos have become
a subject of ﬁerce controversy; some would
have them totally protected as a unique
symbol of Australia, some believe they
should be destroyed as pests because they

 

damage fencing and sheep pastures, while
some hold that they should be managed for
maximum proﬁt as a renewable resource.
International pressure has come from the
United States where conservation groups
succeeded. in 1974, in having red and grey
kangaroos listed as a “threatened species”,
and the import of kangaroo products ban-
ned. The ban was later lifted after Austra-
lia was able to demonstrate that kangaroo

@The. secret“ of-
our Survival .

resources are properly surveyed and man-
aged. All seemed set for them to be re-
moved from the US list of threatened spe-
cies but in April 1984, the US Fish and
Wildlife service ruled that the severe 1982—
83 Australian drought had put the status of
kangaroo populations in doubt once more.

The latest evidence suggests, however,
that kangaroos may be even more abun-
dant than before European settlers ar-

 

rived. Thanks to work by Graeme Caugh-
Iey of the CSIRO Division of Wildlife and
Rangelands Research, kangaroo popula-
tions can now be accurately estimated from
the air. The trick is to fly a series of trans-
ects, at a particular height and speed,
counting the kangaroos within a 200-m
strip marked by streamers trailing from
the aeroplane. Not all kangaroos are seen
but a set of equations, devised by Caughley
is used to correct the observer error
according to the type of countryside. When
these results are compared with sightings
of kangaroos recorded in early explorers’
diaries, it does seem that the kangaroos are
more abundant than ever before. The
probable explanation is that the provision
of water-holes for sheep and the reduction
of the predatory dingo population have re-
moved constraints on the population.
Commercial taking of kangaroos is now
very strictly controlled in all states. Un-
licensed hunting is prohibited. But it is
unlikely that protest will diminish over the
seemingly brutal way in which kangaroos
are taken by dazzling them at night with
bright lights and ﬁnishing them off with
clubs. Such practices have gained interna-
tional notoriety; when the Japanese were
under ﬁre last year for whaling, from
Australian conservation groups among
others. Japanese newspapers ran pictures
of Australian kangaroo hunting with a
headline raising this awkward question
“How can they criticize us?" This is a point
the Australians might take.
Alun Anderson

 

 




 

 

THE WALL STREET JOURNAL FRIDAY, JULY 26. 1985

sen-e ~10 ea. 8/(3/8

Africa’s Potential to Feed Itself Is Blocked

By DAilismanagement and Natural Disasters

 

By LEE Lesmzs

StuffReportcr of Till-I WALL STREET JOURNAL

ASUOKA, Ghana — Joseph Kumi has
twice left this poor village 44 miles from
Accra to work illegally in a Nigerian plas-
tic bag factory for a salary of just over
$150 a month. Twice the Nigerians have ex-
pelled him along with other foreign
workers. A few days after his most recent
forced return. Mr. Kumi, 25 years old, sat
With some friends contemplating his fu-
ture.

The only jobs here are in the fields. Will
Mr. Kuhn settle down and farm? The ques'

tion makes him
slieepishly bury his IMPERILED
CONTINENT

head in his arms.
“No, it‘s too hard."
3 friend interjects.
Both young men
laugh.

At the heart of
Africa's troubles—it
is the only region of
the world where per
capita food produc-
tion is falling—is an
agricultural disas- FIFTH OF A SERIES
ter. Africa has the potential to feed itself
and export vast quantities of grain, but in
reality one fifth of the grain it consumes
comes from abroad. And that proportion is
risrng. For more than a decade, Ghana and
other nations have exhorted their people to
go back to the land, but like Mr. Kumi.
many find larming distastefully difficult.

White-Collar Aspirations

“The educational system teaches a dis-
trust of manual labor." says French agron-
omist Rene Dumont. “After three years of
education a child will no longer touch a
farm tool."

In response to a Ghanaian government
appeal for businesses to invest in agricul-
ture, Japan Motors, a Nissan distributor,
decided to try its hand at raising cattle. In
197-1. it leased land on the outskirts of Ac-
cra. By the beginning of 1982. things
weren‘t going too well.

The dairy herds bull had died and the
farm had no foreign exchange to import
another. Since the 24 Friesian cows
veren't bred, they no longer gave milk.
Seven of the nine tractors weren't running
because of a spare-parts shortage. Medi-
cines were scarce, so 19 beef cattle had
died of tick-borne disease and there were
no fencrng materials available. so the cat-
tle had to be tended in the fields.

Things are pretty much the same 3%
years later. There‘s still no fencing. Three
of the nine tractors are running. No one
wants to import a new bull, because now
all the Friesian cows have died. “We kept
them over here," a farm hand says. point-
ing to a corral, “but it was too hot for
them."

Setting Priorities

Kwame Nkrumah. who led Ghana to be
come black Africa‘s first independent na-
tion in 1957, set out to build Ghana into an
industrial nation. at the expense of agricul-
ture. The urban population was the only
political constituency needed to support a
government, so food prices were held down
to keep city dwellers happy.

Other nations have comparable failures.
A 1981 study in Mali found farmers getting

 

 

Per Capita Grain Production
In Africa, 1966-1984

Kilograms per person
180'

 

L(Subsistence Level)

A

 

1..

’84

10022.1 37:1 7 3: -'~-.-: '
'66 '68 ’70 '7 ’74 ’76 "78 ’80 ’82
Source (7.8. Department ofAm‘tk‘u/turr

 

 

 

paid two~thirds what it cost them to grow
rice. In almost every African nation. state
organizations control prices and supply the
marketplace with everything from beef to
beer at artificially low prices.

All of which leaves farmers little incen-
tive to produce beyond their own needs.
Resort to subsistence farming has tradi-
tionally been the peasant response to gov-
ernments seen as biased toward urban
dwellers. Indeed. Africa‘s experience with
state management of agriculture is stud-
ded with evidence that—as Lester Brown
of the Worldwatch Institute entitled an ar-
ticle—“Marx was a city boy."

Ghana's cocoa industry, its major for-
eign-exchange earner, is a classic case. In
1965, Ghana produced 550,000 tons. The
1984 crop was one-third that size. By 1981,
the Cocoa Marketing Board payroll had
ballooned to 110.000 people. Equally disas-
trous, the price paid to farmers was about
one~third the world price.

Flight-Lieutenant Jerry J. Rawlings,
who took power in Ghana Dec. 31, 1981, has
worked hard to revive cocoa. The payroll
has been cut to 60.000 and efforts are under
way to fire another 20,000 people. The
problem is that severance pay would total
$40 million. The government and the World
Bank would like a donor nation to step for-
ward. The government also has raised the
price paid farmers. but critics like A. Ap
piah-Menkah, a cocoa grower. argue it's
still only half the world price.

Hopeful Outlook

Now, the government budget says, pro-
duction will rise to 200,000 tons this year.
“That‘s a fairy tale," counters a leading
businessman. Most cocoa trees are 50
years old and the farmers' average age is
60. he says.

Here in Asuoka. Kofi Mensah, 70. says
things haven’t been good for cocoa farmers
since the British left. He pours a few drops
from a bottle of White Horse scotch onto
his dusty courtyard as an offering to the
gods and begins to chant. “He’s praying
for the British to come back and make ev-
eryone rich." one of Mr. Mensah's sons ex-
plains as a thirsty circle of men waits for
the prayer to end so the bottle can be
passed around. Scotch isn't an everyday
drink in Asuoka.

“He's very rich," a plainly envious
neighbor says of Mr. Mensah before help-
ing himself to a generous measure of whis-
key. Mr. Mensah says his trees are too old
and he doesn't farm any longer. His sons
aren’t interested in cocoa, he adds. -

Another aspect of Africa’s agricultural

disaster has been the almost complete fai-
lure of research to find improved crops
suitable to Africa. Agronomist Dunstan
S.C. Spencer says West Africa hasn’t seen
technical change. it's only been able to in-
crease acreage under cultivation.

Low Success Rate

For example, more than 10 years of
trials involving 2.000 imported varieties of
sorghum and millet in West African man-
grove swamps found only two varieties as
good as the local ones and none better.

Under prodding from the World Bank
and others, many African nations have be-
gun efforts to rebuild their agricultural
bases, but the problems are enormous.

Inefficiencies built in over the years of-
ten make local products more expensive
than imported ones. Recently, for exam-
ple. Ghanaians could buy imported corn
cheaper than local. Burkina Faso has beef
to sell. but neighboring Ivory Coast can get
frozen beef cheaper from Europe, thanks
in part to European Common Market sub-
sidies. In Ghana, a ton of local palm oil
used in manufacturing soap costs about
500} more than imported tallow.

Transportation costs are high because
most nations‘ roads range from bad to im-
passable. The Agency for International De-
velopment recently found it would have to
pay $3 million to truck about $2.8 million
worth of corn from Ghana to the drought—
stricken nations of the Sahel.

For the long term, Africa‘s seemingly
inexorable loss of agricultural land. as in
the Sahel. presents a grim problem. “The
drama isn‘t throwing up a Maginot line
against the desert—we don‘t know how,"
says an international expert. ”But we have
to prevent thousands of other acres from
going the way of the Sahel."

Dry Holes

In Kounoun. Senegal, Abdoul Dieng
knows the way of the Sahel. Everyyear he
used to dig a hole in the ground, wait for
the rains to fill it, and then produce a rich
harvest of vegetables. Trees formed a ring
around his land. and during dry seasons he
could draw water from his hand-dug cis-
tern.

Today he stands amid a moonscape of
craters and surveys the wreckage of his
land. It hasn't'rained for three years. The
trees are gone. Mr. Dieng has dug four big
holes hoping to hit water underground.
since nothing falls from above. Every 15
days he must deepen the holes. To water
his meager crops. he must scramble down
the sides of the 20-foot hole and trudge up
the slippery walls of the crater lugging two
heavy buckets of water. It isn‘t enough.
The tomatoes are wilting, the lettuce is rid-
den with insects, and the cucumbers are
shriveled.

Niger is almost completely gone to des-
ert. Only a strip of arable land remains.
Burkina Faso, next door, has lost perhaps
one-third of its land, but if measures aren't
taken soon, it could look like Niger in 10
years, experts fear.

President Thomas Sankara of Burkina
Faso last month issued three decrees
aimed at halting the destruction of the
land. He banned setting outdoor fires and
issued orders regulating the cutting of
trees and the movement of cattle herds.
More than 1% of the Sahel‘s trees disap
pears each year.

 




FUND FOR ANIMALS LTD., AUSTRALIA

SW‘T‘UPH‘

TECHNICAL BULLETIN

No 13 June, I985

 

PROTECTED AREAS
IN ANTARCTICA

At the twelfth Antarctic Treaty Consultative
Meeting (ATCM) in September 1983, Australia
submitted a paper which questioned the adequacy
of the current range ofconservation measures and
suggested a range of options for achieving greater
coherence in environmental protection, including
an integrated convention which would replace all
existing measures. However. other Treaty__nations
responded unenthusiastically to the notion of an
umbrella environmental protection regime, or any
initiative which would subsume existing measures,
and Australia opted to pursue its concern for the
environmental protection of Antarctica by
concentrating on specific areas of inadequacy
within the current system.

Although the long-term objecrive of Fund for
Animal‘s Antarctica Campaign is the total

protection of the Antarctic region through the
implementation of a Conservation Convention,

one short—term objective is the immediate

introduction of protective status for large areas not
presently protected adequately, and it has been
lobbying the Australian Government to raise this
at the 13th ATCM scheduled for October this year.

There are currently a number of measures which
can be used to protect particularly sensitive or
special and unique biological features from the

effects of human activity. However, the specificity

of these measures cannot provide adequate
protection from the ever increasing range and
intensity of such activity. At present no protection
is afforded, for example, to aesthetic, wilderness,
human enjoyment or general environmental values,
or to geographical, geological or biological values
with unique or representative qualities and yet not
of particular or immediate scientific interest.

A new type of protected area to encompass a
broader range of values and requiring regulation

of all activities within the boundaries of the
designated area would allow the conservation of
particular values while accommodating others
deemed compatible with those values.

At the recent preparatory agenda—setting meeting
for the forthcoming 13th ATCM (held in April in
Brussels), Australia took up our suggestion and
proposed the introduction of a new category of
Antarctic reserve, based on the setting aside of areas
for any of a variety of reasons to be managed under
conditions relevant to the reasons for which it has
been reserved. While FFA is disappointed that the
Government is no longer pursuing the concept of
a totally new environmental protection regime, we
are pleased that they have supported this urgent
need for increased protection of the Antarctic
environment. The Government now intends to
develop the proposal further with the assistance
of interested environmental groups before
presenting it in October.

 

PARROT EXPORT
PROPOSALS FAIL

The Chairperson of the Council of Nature
Conservation Ministers (CONCOM). the Hon.
Barry Cohen. M.P., Minisrer for .Arts, Heritage and
Environment, announced after the Council’s
meeting on Norfolk Island on May 30th, that the
current ban on the export of native birds would
remain.

The Fund for Animals had been at the forefront
of a campaign to oppose moves by the R.S.P.C.A.
in New South Wales and the Queensland
Government to allow the export of common species
of parrots and aviary bred species respectively.

The Queensland and Northern Territory
Governments rejected the motion to retain the ban
which was passed on the votes of the
Commonwealth, N.S.W., Victoria, South Australia,
Tasmania, Western Australia. and the ACT.

At the 16th Session of ILICN’s General Assembly
in Madrid in November 1984, a resolution was
passed on “Wild Genetic Resources and
Endangered Species Habitat Protection". Part of
the goal of this resolution was to prepare a
“preliminary draft for a global agreement on the
conservation of the world’s genetic resources with
a view to developing a joint draft by late 1985”.

As one of the initial drafters of the Resolution
(merged with others on genetic diversity) the Fund’s
Endangered Species Program has suggested to
IUCN that it join with FFA in financing an
appropriate consultant to prepare the proposed
draft treaty.

The Endangered Species Program has also
submitted a preliminary proposal to the N.S.W.

 

ENDANGERED SPECIES LEGISLATION
NEWS UPDATE

Government for the introduction of Endangered
Species Habitat Protection legislation, and the
Minister for Planning and Environment, Mr. Bob
Carr, has requested that the National Parks and
Wildlife Service provide detailed comment on the
proposal.

At the recent meeting of CONCOM on Norfolk
Island, the AC IUCN paper on Endangered Species
Habitat Legislation was finally laid to rest. The
Ministers decided that current and proposed
Government legislation was adequate to conserve
endangered species. CONCOM has agreed to give
ACIUCN, for their further comment, a copy of
the CONCOM produced report which outlines
Federal, State and Territory laws in respect to
endangered species.

 

 

NEW FUND
PUBLICATION
ON COASTAL
CONSERVATION

A new policy book was published by the Fund's
“Marine and Coastal Protection Group” in May
this year, entitled I4ustralian Coastal Zone
Management: a Unified Approach’, by Rob
Lawrence. The publication aims to raise the
awareness of the public and politicians to the urgent
need for the development of national coastal
policies and objectives.

The book is a sequel to Dr. Suter’s on ‘Marine
and Estuarine Reserves in Australia — Towards a
National Polio)", and like that earlier report,
suggests specific legal action in the form of draft
national legislation. The third part of this long term
project will be the publication later this year of a
policy document which looks closely at the
implications for Australia in ratifying and
implementing the UN. Convention of the Law of
the Sea.

Earlier this year, in mid- February, Rob Lawrence
had represented the Fund at a CONCO‘\I (Councik

P‘\M‘v-r.{i 1 \xy't~~?':-3\T:~1,\~egt<'n\ \‘ \"L'j’jx.

Government representatives to attend the ‘Second
Technical Workshop on Marine and Estuarine
Protected Areas’ (MEAP’s). at Jervis Bay in N.S.W.
That Workshop made reasonable progress towards
agreed policies and directions, and it was
particularly noted that the Commonwealth
Government must involve itse 'f to a far greater
extent, if a national system of marine reserves is
to operate.

Not long after the special CONCOM Workshop,
the Australian Committee for IUCN (International
Union for Conservation of Nature and Natural
Resources) convened the first meeting of a sub-

committee to draw on the report of Dr. Suter and
to draft recommendations relating to legislation

for marine and estuarine reserves. The sub-

committee comprises representatives from the
Australian National Parks and Wildlife Service,

the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Authority,
Fisheries and Wildlife Division, Department of
Conservation and Lands, Victoria. Project Jonah,
National Parks Association of N.S.\\’., and Fund
for Animals Ltd. -'

A further development in the coastal
management area has been the recent decision by
the AEC (Australian Environment Council) to
sponsor or co-sponsor a conference in 1986 on
coastal management and protection from an
environmental perspective To further facilitate the
exchange of information on coastal management,
the AEC is to establish a liaison network of of ficers
working in the field from the Commonwealth, the
Australian States and Territories, New Zealand and
Papua New Guinea.

 

FUND FOR ANIMALS LTD.. AUSTRALIA
Registered under The Charitable Collections Act.
1934. N.S.W. No. C.C.35114

Head Ofﬁce: lst Floor

14 Sydney Road. Manly

PO. Box 371

Manly 3095 N.S.W.

Telephone: net 0“ ism" tot:

FUND FOR ANIMALS SPECIAL PROJECTS:
Marine and Coastal Protection Group

Animal Welfare Legislation Group

Endangered Species Program

The Antarctica Project

 




'-
I

10

 

NATURE VOL. 3l7 5 SEPTEMBER 1985

 

CORRESPONDENCE

UK and proliferation

SIR—Your leading articles. on 27 June. 18
and 25 July and 1 August, on the prolifera-
tion and safeguards implications of emer-
gent nuclear technology and nuclear com-
merce and on arms control difficulties. all
relate to the current Non-Proliferation
(NPT) Treaty Review Conference and its
likely success or failure. It is a consolation
that Nature has given this conference and
its attendant issues so much coverage,
when the other science journals and cur-
rent affairs journals have barely afforded
NPT a mention.

I should like to comment further on one
particular aspect you raised on 1 August,
that of the nature of Euratom safeguards
as applied to the United Kingdom. There
is a continuing problem in that the United
Kingdom government still refuses to
admit safeguards inspectors from the In-
ternational Atomic Energy Agency or
Euratom to the Windscale Magnox repro-
cessing plant at Sella'field, on the grounds
that nuclear material from both British
Nuclear Fuels’ military designated plants
and the electricity boards’ reactors are
either co-processed or processed sequen-
tially. This means that the physical inspec-
tion of the fissile material within the re-
processing plant is not possible; only
book-keeping checks are allowed. Fore-
ign governments, including that of the Un-
ited States, must rely upon the honesty of
the British government when it states that
no swapping of civil to military plutonium
takes place. There are no meaningful safe-
guards applied to plutonium in the United
Kingdom. ‘

That this is becoming an important issue
is spelled out by former UK government
energy consultant Ian Smart in the August
1985 issue of Nuclear Engineering Interna-
tional . in which he points out in a preview
article for the NPT Review Conference
that “there is rising pressure on the United
States, Britain and France to draw a clear-
er line between all civil and military nuc-
lear Operations, especially in the fuel cy-
cle, for example, by renouncing any milit-
ary use of material obtained by reproces-
Sing civil reactor fuel. That pressure may
increase in the aftermath of the [NPT]
Review Conference.”

The British government told Parlia-
ment on 13 May that it had no intention of
raising the problems of applying safe-
guards at Sellafield at the NPT Review
Conference. It is not surprising. In the 70
parliamentary questions it has been asked
speCiﬁcally on plutonium since the begin-
ning of the year, it has been less than
forthcoming. Indeed, so parsimonious has
it been with details, that one begins to
wonder whether it has anything insidious
to hide. One contrasting example will suf-
ﬁce to show the problem at its starkest.

On 15 January, the Secretary of State
for Energy stated to Parliament that it was
“not the practice” of the government to

 

release details on the Mutual Defense
Agreement on atomic energy matters
signed between the United States and the
United Kingdom. This agreement, dating
from 1958, has enabled plutonium and
highly enriched uranium and tritium to be
exchanged across the Atlantic, as well as
provided for other common nuclear
weapons development. There are worries
in some quarters that some of the pluto-
nium sent from the United Kingdom
was created in electricity board rather
than military reactors, hence blurring
the “atoms for peace” profile of nuclear
energy.

On 23 May. however, when the govern-
ment was asked for details of all the nuc-
lear weapons tests carried out by or for the
United Kingdom and the United States at
the Nevada test site, their code names and
whether conducted below or above
ground, the government replied with full
details, despite the fact that these tests
were conducted under precisely the same
1958 Mutual Defense Agreement on
which the government refuses to divulge
details on fissile material exchanges.

To the outsider. it seems that something
odd may be happening. It would be in the
interests of all that the United Kingdom
government should fully explain its posi~
tion before or at the NPT Review Confer-
ence. The patience of the non-nuclear
states over the antics of the nuclear
weapons states aiding each others’
armouries surely has only limited life be-
fore it snaps. Then we will witness the
collapse of the non-proliferation regime.

DAVID LOWRY
European Proliferation
Information Centre,
258 Pentonville Road,
London N1 9] Y, UK

 

Down with metric

SIR—I agree with Dr D.C. Jolly (Nature 8
August, p.480) about the demerits of the
metric system.

The metre is now deﬁned as the dis-
tance travelled by light, in vacuo, in 1/299
792 458 second. This seems to me an
absurd number to choose — its only merit
is that it preserves the metre as the basis of
the SI system. If we were to start afresh,
deﬁning the speed of light instead of
measuring it, we would surely choose a
more convenient number such as 3X10”,
or even better 10’. The latter would have
the advantage that the new unit of length
would be very close to the foot (about 11/2
per cent shorter) and this I feel opens the
way to a rehabilitation of the pre-SI units.

The realization that light travels at
almost exactly 109 ft 5'1 prompted me to
investigate whether there is any system of
units (metric, imperial or otherwise) that
gives values close to integral powers of ten
for the fundamental constants c, G and h

 

(or if). Preliminary work on the rod-grain
system was fairly encouraging but failed to
find a sensible unit of time. However,
when the strict requirement on units being
powers of ten was relaxed to include sensi-
ble multipliers (i.e. not 3 and certainly not
2.99792458), it turns out that the foot-
pound-second system works splendidly.
In the relevant units, c = 9.8x10”, G =
1.07><10“9 and 4h’ = 1.001 x10”.

If we choose a system of units in which c
= 10’, G = 10‘9and 4h = 1032(all exactly),
the units would be 1 new foot (or whatev-
er) = 1.060 old feet, 1 new pOund = 0.960
old pounds and 1 new second = 1.078 old
seconds. I foresee no problems in intro—
ducing new feet and new pounds — we
have coped remarkably well, all things
considered, with the horrible metre and
kilogram -— but the new second may be
something of a nuisance (clocks, calen-
dars, etc.). However, the Earth’s rotation
is well known to be slowing down and the
length of the day is increasing by roughly 8
seconds every million years. Thus, one
day will contain 86,400 new seconds in
about 800 million years’ time. Perhaps we
should delay the counter-revolution in our
adopted system of units for a while.

W.G. REES
University of Cambridge,
Department of Physics,
Cavendish Laboratory,
Cambridge C 83 OHE, UK

 

Pain in animals

SIR—The view expressed by Robert
Sharp (Nature 25 July, p.290). that it is
impossible to assess pain in laboratory
animals, is not likely to be accepted by
those who study this particular problem
nor by those called upon to perform the
task, including most members of the
veterinary profession.

Although it may be said to be “imposs-
ible” to find guidelines for the assessment
of pain that guarantee agreement on the
degree of severity, guidelines are used and
are being constantly improved. In most
cases, in applying such guidelines, signiﬁ-
cant disagreement is unlikely, except
perhaps on the distinction mild/moderate
and moderate/severe pain, which may be
resOlved by taking the Opinions of others
experienced with the species involved.

In order to maintain and improve the
health and welfare of animals and man, it
continues to be necessary to subject some
animals to experimental procedures. Un-
fortunately, it appears that those who are
concerned about such use of animals are
not always willing to accept that, despite
the interferences sanctioned under licence
as part of a procedure, the welfare of the
animals concerned is and will remain, the
ﬁrst priority of those who carry out this
work. V. MOLONY .
Department of Veterinary Physiology,
University of Edinburgh,

Royal (Dick) School of Veterinary Studies,
Summerhall, Edinburgh EH91QH, UK

 




14

NEWS AND VIEWS '

NATURE VOL. 317 5 SEPTEMBER 1985

 

 

of green vegetation (especially annual
grasses) after the rains, and it is at this
time of year that the wildebeest move in to
crop the nutritious young plants. The food
is of such high quality that the animals
calve during their stay in the semi-arid
plains, but as soon as the surface water
dries up they have to move back to the
wetter areas where they feed on taller,
perennial but lower-quality vegetation.
The wildebeest’s pattern of migration is
seen in more or less parallel form in other
herbivores, although some simply dis-
perse rather than undertake regular
migrations. It not only allows them effi-
ciently to exploit their arid environment,
but also sustains the vegetation. When the
wildebeest leave the semi-arid plains; the
annual grasses have a chance to grow (and
perennial grasses to build up reserves) and
set seed before moisture leaves the soil,
providing the basis for next year’s crop.

Traditionally, the pastoralists of the
Sahel followed the same pattern as the
wildebeest: taking or perhaps following
their cattle northwards to calve, feeding
on the high-quality grass in the most arid
regions during the brief wet season, and
then moving back south to keep their
herds on low-quality vegetation during the
rest of the year. An important factor
bringing about the disruption of this tradi-
tional lifestyle was the provision of water
at boreholes drilled in the semi—arid re-
gions by development agencies. The wells
had the effect of encouraging pastoralists
to settle in the more arid parts of their
range, with disastrous effects. Year-round
grazing by their cattle deprived the annual
and perennial grasses of a chance to re-
cuperate and replenish themselves. F urth-
ermore, the concentration of people and
cattle around the water-holes compacted
the soil so that plant establishment was
suppressed. It is this effect, first noticed in
the late 19605 before the supposed
drought of the 19705, that is central to
the problem, according to Sinclair and
Fryxell. The low rainfall of the 1970s prob-
ably exacerbated the problem but was not
the primary cause; although there have
been several years of below-average
rainfall in the past 15 years, there were
similar periods in the past that did not
have comparable effects.

Other factors were also at work. The
newly independent African states, for ex-
ample, discouraged pastoralists from cross-
ing national boundaries and encouraged
them instead to settle near permanent
water supplies. Meanwhile, medical and
veterinary aid led to a rapid increase in
population of both man and cattle. and
traditional southern grazing areas of the
pastoralists were turned over to crops such
as sorghum, millet and peanuts.

Desertiﬁcation of the Sahel, then, was
brought about by gradual spreading and
coalescing of denuded, overgrazed areas
around boreholes. Sinclair and Fryxell go
on to argue that the denudation may itself
have longer-term effects on the climate ~—

 

a view that has been much discussed be-
fore and remains controversial. The es-
sence of the argument is summarized in
the figure. Loss of vegetation exposes the
bare light-coloured soil, which has high
reflectance and therefore has a cool sur-
face that generates fewer upcurrents to
carry moisture to higher altitudes where it
can condense as rain. By contrast, in areas
with better vegetation cover, the darker
surface warms up to higher temperature,
creating upcurrents that carry moisture
(to some extent produced by the vegeta—
tion itself) upwards to form rain clouds.
Thus overgrazing may conceivably cause a
switch from one positive feedback loop to
another, generating its own drought.
Sinclair and Fryxell share the view held
by most commentators and fund raisers
that food aid, while it must be our primary
moral concern, it in itself not enough.
Where they differ from the majority view
is in the kind of long-term planning that is
needed to prevent repeated famines.
Their evidence leads to the view that the
traditional migratory lifestyle evolved by
man and beast for exploiting the semi—arid
Sahel is the most efficient and most viable
option. Drilling more water holes, build-
ing more houses and trying to encourage
sedentary, crop-based agriculture in arid
regions is not the solution. (Irrigation,
another part of most proposals for de-
velopment, has its own suite of problems
and consequences, including salination of
the soil, which are beyond the scope of this

 

article.) To re-establish the traditional
mode of life of the Sahel people would be
a long and difficult task: for one thing, the
vegetation of the area would probably
take 25 years to recover if given the
chance; for another, the pastoral lifestyle
could not be sustained at current levels of
human and cattle populations. The inhe-
rent and enormous difficulties are not,
however, a reason for ignoring the advice
and thinking about how to act upon it.

On a more general note. the views of
ecologists such. as Sinclair and Fryxell,
with many years of field experience and a
grasp of the fundamental principles of
ecosystem management, are surely impor-
tant and should be part of any integrated
long-term aid scheme. Similarly, the fun-
damental ecological research, by means of
which such complex environmental issues
can be thoroughly evaluated, should not
be relegated to a sideline as it is, for exam-
ple, by the current ‘utilitarian' govern-
ment view of university research in Bri—
tain. The really big research issues facing
the world are not those relating to frac-
tional increases in the industrial produc-
tivity of one or two already wealthy coun-
tries, but instead those concerned with the
fragile relationship between man and his
environment, so devastatingly portrayed
by the Sahel.

 

John R. Krebs & Malcolm J. Coe are lecturers in
the Department of Zoology. Oxford University,
South Parks Road. Oxford 0X1 3P5, UK.

 

Vision

Phototransduction changes focus

from David Attwell

A MAJOR problem in vertebrate photo-
transduction has been solved. Patch-
clamp experiments, published in Nature
earlier this yearH and in this issue”, have
resolved a long controversy over the
identity of the so-called ‘internal mes-
senger’, the signal that conveys to the
surface membrane of the rod or cone the
information that a photon has been
absorbed by the receptor.

The need for an internal messenger was
originally suggested for rods. Light is
absorbed by rhodopsin located in mem-
brane disks that are isolated electrically
from the surface membrane of the cell.
This results in the closing of ion channels
in the surface membrane, and thus a
change in the membrane potential of the
cell. The ﬁrst candidate for the internal
messenger was calcium ions’, which were
postulated to be released from the
rhodopsin-containing disks and to diffuse
to the surface membrane, where they
would close the channels. The visual pig-
ment in cones is located in infoldings of
the surface membrane (see ﬁgure), rather
than isolated disks, so that there is no
absolute need for an internal messenger.

b

 

For simplicity, however, it was su'ggested7
that calcium played the same role in cones
as in rods, with light allowing calcium to
enter across the surface membrane of the
cell and to close channels by binding to the
inner surface of the membrane.

Biochemical and electrophysiological
work on rods“‘9 led to a challenge to the
calcium hypothesis: light absorption was
shown to result in activation (via a GTP-
binding protein in the disks) of a disk~
bound phosphodiesterase, which hydro-
lyses cyclic GMP. It was proposed that
the resulting decrease in concentration of
cGMP closed the ion channels in the
surface membrane.

The ﬁrst direct evidence that the agent
acting on the surface membrane is indeed
cGMP, and not calcium, came from
Fesenko et al.‘ and Nakatani and Yau’”.
By perfusing different solutions on to
the cytoplasmic surface of inside-out
patches“ pulled off rod outer segments,
they showed that cGMP modulates the _
membrane current, while calcium does not.
Further evidence for the lack of involve-
ment of calcium came from whole—cell
patch-clamp experiments3 which demon-

 




NATURE VOL. 317 5 SEPTEMBER 1985

 

main obstructions to extending this result
to all groups are the simple groups.
Simple groups are the ‘atoms of sym-
metry’. Over the past few decades, an
intense research programme has achieved
the group-theoretical equivalent of Men-
deleev’s periodic table by finding the
complete classiﬁcation of all simple groups.
These groups fall into many infinite
families with similar properties. but there
are 26 curious exceptions. the sporadic
groups. The largest of these, the monster,
was first placed in evidence by Bernd
Fischer and finally captured by Robert
Griess (who attempted. unsuccessfully. to
rename it the friendly giant). It contains
precisely 808, 017, 424. 794, 512,875, 886.
459,904,961,710,757,005,754.368,000.
000.000 elements —— roughly one septem-
decillion symmetries. Griess tracked it
down as a group of rotations in a 196.883-
dimensional space. Many existence proofs
for sporadic simple groups make essential
use of computers, but the size of the
monster seemed to exclude any compu-
tational approach. Griess solved the
problem by not using a computer at all.
Modern algebra has recast Galois’
original work in the context of ‘algebraic
number fields’. A field is a mathematical
system in which all the usual operations of
arithmetic can be performed, subject to
the usual laws; so if every element of the
field is a root of an equation with whole
number coefficients, then we have an
algebraic number field. A given field,K,
can be extended to a larger one,L, by
‘adjoining’ the roots of an equation with
coefficients in K. For example, the com-
plex numbers arise from real numbers by
adjoining a number i such that i 2+1 =0.
The Galois group of an equation with
coefficients in K may then be thought of as
the group of symmetries of L that ﬁx K.
Here, L is obtained from K by adjoining
the roots of the chosen equation.
Thompson’s work blends these two
ingredients, Galois theory and simple
groups, in a highly original way. It exploits
a connection with a totally different area
of mathematics — complex functions —-
that is becoming a recurrent theme in
post-classiﬁcation simple group theory.
Thompson deﬁnes a notion of rigidity of a
group (roughly, this means that its ele-
ments combine in a reasonably nice way),
and proves that every rigid simple group is
a Galois group of an equation with coeffic-
ients in a suitable algebraic number ﬁeld.
The monster may be proved rigid; and
there are two alternatives for the algebraic
number field. It can be either the rational
numbers p/q (p,q are integers) or the
extension obtained by adjoining V571.
Another family of rigid groups is
PSL2(2"), a group of projective transfor-
mations of a 2-dimensional space with
coordinates in the ﬁnite ﬁeld with 2"
elements (whose existence and unique-
ness was» also discovered, coincidentally,
by Galois).
The function theory used goes back to

 

i3

 

NEWS AND VIEWS

the classical era, and concerns ‘Fuchsian
groups’. These are certain groups of trans-
formations of the complex plane. of the
form 2 —->(az+b)/(cz+ d). Much is known
about complex functions that are invariant
under such transformations (for example.
elliptic functions). Thompson’s proof
makes heavy use of a particular Fuchsian
group. T, which has to satisfy a whole
series of conditions: it is a torsion-free
Fuchsian group of the first kind, of zero
genus, with cusp number at least 6.... and
so on. It is not necessary to define the
terms to see that the choice of F must be
made very carefully. As Thompson says.
“It is a tight squeeze. but such a F exists”.
The equation whose Galois group is the
given simple group is then constructed by
an elaborate argument involving the
Riemann surfaces associated with various
subgroups of F. The combination of
rigidity of the simple group, and the
special features imposed on F, combine
to make the strategy effective.

The above discussion may perhaps
make Thompson’s work seem like very
specialized and technical mathematics,
but its inﬂuence is likely to be extensive.
The monster, for example, is acquiring

 

importance in mathematical physics.
Symmetries in nature are central to much
of quantum mechanics. so exceptionally
symmetrical objects such as the monster
stand out as being worthy of investigation.
The realization of the monster as a Galois
group has recently been applied by Jean-
Pierre Serre (Commentarii Mathematici
Helvetici 59, 651; 1984) to the Witt invari-
ant of a quadratic form of importance in
Galois cohomology (a modern decendant
of Galois theory).

Thompson himself notes that further
developments would be possible, given
improvements in complex function theory.
A ‘better’ choice of the group F would
remove a rather artificial restriction in the
current concept of rigidity. But even in its
present form, the theory is a remarkable
conjunction of group theory, Galois
theory and function theory. It looks as if
Emmy Noether’s problem is starting to
succumb to a three-pronged attack, and
already the classiﬁcation of simple groups
is bearing fruit in several other areas of
mathematics. El

 

Ian Stewart is at the Mathematics Institute, Uni-
versity of Warwick, Coventry CV4 7AL, UK.

 

Sahel famine

 

An ecological perspective

from John R. Krebs and Malcolm J. Coe

THANKS in no small part to the activities of
Bob Geldof, public awareness and sym-
pathy is probably greater than ever before
for the plight of those living in the African
Sahel, a semi-arid belt girdling Africa and
including 10 countries from Senegal and
Mauritania in the west to Ethiopia and
Somalia in the east. The exact causes of
the disaster are much less clear. While
there is no doubt about the effect — ‘de-
sertification’, that is loss of vegetation and
replacement with bare soil, sand or rock
— the factors that have brought this about
are by no means obvious (Farmer, G. &
Wigley, T.M.L. Climatic Trends for Tro-
pical Africa; University of East Anglia,
1985). According to one view, probably
shared by most of the public, the major
cause is meteorological: a sequence of
years in the 19703 with below average rain-
fall —— below, that is, the average of 100
mm in the north and 500 mm in the south
(Sanford, S. Management of Pastoral De-
velopment in the Third World; Wiley, New
York, 1983). The contrasting idea is that
to a large extent the desertiﬁcation is man-
made, resulting from a complex combin-
ation of demographic, cultural and
agricultural changes exacerbated by
ill-advised aid schemes and colonial
development in the region (see figure;
Cloudsley Thompson, J. Int. J. Environ.
Studies 2, 35; 1971). This view has recently
been argued forcefully by A.R.E. Sinclair
and J.M. Fryxell in the Canadian Journal

0

 

of Zoology 63, 987; 1985. The issue is of
crucial importance because, as we shall
explain, it may have profound implica-
ions for the best ways of spending aid.
The key point of Sinclair and Fryxell’s
argument is that the present disaster was
precipitated by a change in the lifestyle of
the Sahel people, from being migratory
pastoralists to settling down around water
holes drilled by development agencies.
They point to the fact that the migratory
lifestyle is the traditional and effective
way of coping with an arid environment
for man and his cattles as it also is for many
of the vast herds of ungulates that live in,
and to the south, of the region. The 1.3
million wildebeest of the Serengeti Plains,
for example, migrate seasonally from
areas of high rainfall (1,000 mm per year)
to semi-arid plains with a rainfall compa-
rable to that of the Sahel (400 mm per
year). These plains have a seasonal flush

Settlement Migration

O t
Overgrazing Reduced

grazing
Reduced /

. \ Increased
vegetation

/vegetation\

High albedo Less rain More rain Low albedo

\ / Thermals Warm 150“
Cool soil V

Suggested sequence of the two climate —
vegetation feedback systems in semi-arid re-
gions (from Sinclair, A.R.E. & Fryxell, J.M.
Can. J. Zool. 63, 987; 1985). .

 




 

4 . ~ ‘ ‘V -' ‘
. _e... ~ .«.,‘. .
., v . .‘
4‘ 3.. '
1 .‘ , n
‘. -,’ °.' . . ’

M. ,i 1 ff, .;. _ '.
.711“; A3 .
' ' .1 ' _.,. '.

 
  

 

., v "' ‘J

, s , i
3 f
'. l , °
'. ‘ ‘. ‘

r 3‘: r .3 3 j
V" .

‘ .19 v ’ 1“ '1‘
'5 “ 3‘1‘ ' ' '
3‘, . p 3‘ y '~ ‘~

*~ 1‘ 1‘ V 3
.1 1:" . ‘3-
"A ~I¢‘

( ‘-

; If; f I
u x ‘~
'. "5 .V d
( “ .« ‘. :f

‘3 ; . "l' i“ 5- '

3. .41 ' 'I *1 3
. 1.. -- k 2'. -
' v.. 3 V1 ‘ . .
r. r)‘. 1'. u, 2.! L; . .~
3 . 1: C ,
‘2‘ ." :7 ;3 id“ , i z"
'i v. :3
. . . . '31
'i:; 31"?“ 1’ 84 I; "‘ '-‘ ‘
. . ' r "'
r 3 ' uwg;¢¥¥ﬁ”ar
i «9‘1”.1 v32 - 3 a t a
O x.)3{,.;,‘.ﬁ#f‘-d tif$b I.
.. *3 ‘ 3 .«J,°"
‘. -1 -;§“‘%:"“t¥ ,1, a ‘9. .I
.--..:' . '4 ,y ‘ ,

. .:. g
\.

(A monthly melange of salient Sillies...)

4 ’ .‘ ‘ ‘ .. , ..“““" 2“}: f ’;;3{ ‘3‘“ :_: v ' ‘
k ;“l.=; f,” 3.; ‘ v.1 .‘ n J «oi-1‘25“." if; ﬁw” 2‘5" . .

‘ 44° «‘3‘. - ' .h': _ Ski‘sﬂnr
' "‘ #39 «3°.. J

vice Corporation, the eighth largest moving

f‘ﬂ f1. 3'” selv 1"‘vwn 1' .r L9. «in; ..~

the direction of your. furniture.

.....

:Jr‘u «"
r .. ..,.» ,- -
0‘..‘ﬁ;- 1’ ' '

. : 1“".**** - 'j?"»":_.‘-' I ".
‘ 5.; . ‘ . \ 91.7... ’32- .. ‘1‘) ~." ~ . , ‘ ”I . .
*3 LIVE AID: Women workers at a British

soap factory may have risked miscarriages and
baby deaths because they make a mercury soap;
. «3 .that .is banned3 in: Europe but is allowed in

‘Afl‘lCa «van/here it is popular because lit"
. plightens skin‘color., 3.

» Because Of the health risks, women under
.5; 35 are now banned from the British production
a‘flines‘ -'~ but the soap still can be exported to
Africa. ~35" .

Q‘ .63‘ 1:}.

 
 
   

   

‘NO- DRAG MOVING: The Burnham Ser-..'.

,company in the country, ooffers a .—non smoking
gserVice at no extra charge. This means
salespersons and movers will not blow smoke in;

aniat

‘1"
. ...- . .

‘ ". ' ~ 1 '.' r ‘- . ‘
I 1 31‘ , ._ . I _‘.‘ .z'., 4,.

(‘

BEEWARE: Bees are cheaper and more

efficient monitors of toxic pollutants than the

EPA‘ s mechanical air samplers, says University .
of Montana entomologist Jerry Bromenshenk. ,

He says bees forage a mile or so from their
hives and their hairy bodies pick up whatever is
in the air, on the ground and on plants. He

. collects bees, freezes them, and grinds them:
into a powder which he tests for concen-
#5:.tration3 of heavy metals. He also checks bee

.. fertility rates, which are lowered by exposure“, ,
923"“. to tOXlCSo ' . "

J

NARC PIG: A l+00— pound bristle covered
brown pig named Luise has been hired by the
. j police narcotics bureau of the West German
"Ff-'state of Lower Saxony.

' The young sow, an ace at sniffing out *
"cocaine, will get $30 worth of vitamin- rich

‘ . swill a month as salary.

4!!!

'sweeter. Federal officials:

 

  
    

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
  
 

YOUR PiCNIC IS BEING RECALLED C
the heels of the poisoning of watermelons an
Mexican- ~style White cheese, ‘consumers wer
warned in late July aboURdr‘inking wines fro:
Austria -- because they’ were contaminate
with a deadly chemical normal] added to anti

freeze. 3‘ " "tin “*3" --
Tests found that die‘thyl ei glycol had bee.
added to the wines illegally to make the

d consumer

.' "l - should avoid the 1, 500 brangs 0f Austrian win
. SOid' in the U. S. 9“”

‘3}; 7' ‘21 ‘ -. v .

«‘"3 7‘3}. ““4? “9,: LL"; :‘M gig-,1 9: ."1
_ ‘ ”,;«-."1‘ zit-5:41. 3“" rm$45 3‘11}. 9 in; z‘?‘.".i"€;‘";"u '.

° 3 '~ 32‘ -. ‘ 3 *«x * . . - 3-
i: “if" i *” t * m ° ’3 .m ,-....::.3..'.

), ,.‘, 4...~,..t- " , .

: “p . _ :3r.-~. ., l. . « gir .. .. _ ﬂ:‘v-%§; ”#1:. .. 4,... "Li::«:““' 3»

1‘ ‘ ‘ . h‘ ‘.‘

. gaff”: .315‘ 3‘“ .1, skf‘l‘ ﬁsher; «13,133.;1‘1‘ ‘3‘5.’

HOLESOME South African game ranger

"Dave Reynolds let hirnselfiibe gored by

. "charging black rhinocerosrbeCause it is a1
.."endangered species. «33- -.-.«..

The rhino battered his legs, ripped open hi

. thigh and knocked him to“‘the ground. "I coulr

eaSily have shot her, but the;black rhino 15 a1
endangered species, " Reynolds said from hi
hospital bed. 3.37:3." ”3.?

.f“. ‘5~8~1"-;‘ ":3.“ ' -. :' , ~ '
k ‘12-“ v‘g“ ”‘3‘; {“315 .H- "‘w :“

Mum 3.: :‘ .
. :N‘ii :‘J‘ ““E’f Witt.— Ta, .

n»

‘1'
- *1"!th “'1 't" ~‘
.151}, !~ '. ._ "
“:»“-:...‘ >=;.."" ‘;“"- .

(IUME-STOH’ERS F "rigginvestigator

  
 

 
 

 

 




United States OffiCe of
Environmental Protection Pubiic Affairs (A-107)
Agency' Washington DC 20460

Environmental News

 

FOR.RELEASE: FRIDAY, JULY 12, 1985

Al Heier (202) 382-4374

EPA APPROVES The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency has granted
COMPOUND 1080
PESTICIDE TO registration to the pesticide Compound 1080 (Sodium
CONTROL COYOTES

Fluoroacetate) in the Livestock Protection Collar for

limited use on sheep and goats to control coyotes that
prey on these farm animals.

The collar consists of a rubber reservoir contain-
ing a solution of Compound 1080 and is attached to the
neck of the lamb or goat. If a coyote or other predatory
animal attacks and breaks the reservoir, it will usually
receive a fatal dose. Coyotes normally kill by bites to
the throat.

EPA will limit use of the collar to certified
applicators and those persons under their direct
supervision. Certified applicators will be required
to have special training in the proper use and disposal
of the collar. The trained applicator will also be
required to keep specific records on how many and
where collars are used, to inspect collared animals at
regular intervals for accidental breakage, and to
report accidental poisoning of non-target animals.

EPA cancelled all predacide uses of Compound 1080
in 1972 based on evidence that this pesticide, as then
used, could accidentally poison other animals, especially
endangered species. Between 1977 and 1984, the agency
issued several Experimental Use Permits to gather data
'on a new, more selective way to use Compound 1080
called the Livestock Protection Collar.

In 1981 and 1982 the agency received several
applications to register 1080 as a predator contol,
particularly for coyotes. EPA received applications
from the U.S. Department of Interior, the States of
Wyoming and Montana and Ranchers Supply of Alpine, Texas.

(more)

 




.67
4r
/

-2-

After extensive public hearings, the presiding Administrative Law Judge
issued his initial decision which authorized the agency to consider
applications for registration of 1080 in the Livestock Protection Collar
and as single lethal dose baits with certain restrictions. (The single
lethal dose bait is a small ball of meat, tallow or similar material
containing a lethal dose of 1080).

All parties to the hearings took exception to the Administrative Law
Judge's decision and appealed to the Administrator of EPA for a final
decision. But then Acting Deputy Administrator Lee M. Thomas, who was

designated to rule on the appeal, reaffirmed the initial decision in
October 1983.

EPA has granted permits for experimental use of the single baits
under strict conditions to permit the U.S. Department of Interior to
develOp data needed for registration. Until these experiments are
completed the agency cannot determine whether this use meets the
registration requirements of the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide and
Rodenticide Act (FIFRA).

The registration of the Livestock Protection Collar will be effective
at 1 p.m. EDT, Thursday, July 18.

 




I.
. .
r‘ I'
.
I" '1

COMPOUND 1080 FACT SHEET

'OEEICE OF PESTICIDE PROGRAMS
U. 5. ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY

Agency Action:

The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has approved registration
of compound 1080 in the livestock protection collar to control coyotes
and other wild canids which prey on sheep and goats. The registrant is
the U. S. Department of the Interior (USDI).

The livestock protection collar consists of straps with a rubber
reservoir containing a solution of compound 1080 attached to them.
Since coyotes typically attack their prey by biting the neck, the collar
is attached to the neck of the lamb or goat. If a coyote or other
predatory animal attacks and breaks the reservoir, it will usually receive
a fatal dose of 1080. The collar is a selective means of predator manage—
ment, since it controls only those coyotes which prey on livestock.

The safety and effectiveness of the collar has been extensively
tested by USDI under EPA-approved experimental use permits issued from
1977-1984. During this time USDI amassed a significant quantity of
field testing and laboratory data which was used to support its application
to register the collar. Also, in February 1985, the public was invited to
inspect and comment on these data.

In registering the collar, EPA is imposing several restrictions on its
use designed to protect humans and non-target animals against accidental
exposure. These include:

°Limiting use to applicators who are specially trained and
certified in the proper use and disposal of the collars;

°Permitting use only in fenced areas, as opposed to the
open range;

°Requiring users to keep written records of how many collars
are purchased, placed on livestock, punctured, lost or
unrecovered, or in storage;

°Reporting any deaths of non-target species, including humans
and domestic animals;

°Requiring USDI to conduct a monitoring program designed to
monitor where and how many collars are being used, whether
they are effective, and whether untoward non-target effects

are occurring that would cause the Agency to reevaluate the
registration;

°P1acing bilingual warning signs at logical points of
access to the fenced areas;

°Making it illegal for the user to remove 1080 from the collars
after purchase;

.°Using the collars only where predation is occuring or, by
experience, is expected to occur;

 




-2.—

°Requiring clearance from the Office of Endangered Species before
use in certain areas where threatened or endangered species may
bexjeopardized or adversely impacted; prohibiting altogether use
in the range of the California condor;

°Disposing of the collars by burial three feet underground,
one-half mile from human habitation and water.

Background:

 

EPA cancelled and suspended the predator control use of compound
1080 in 1972 based on evidence that the poison, as then used, posed a
risk to humans and other non-target species, including threatened and
endangered species. Since then, the livestock industry has maintained
that adequate predator control cannot be achieved without the use of
1080 as a component of existing predator management programs such as
special husbandry practices, shooting, and trapping. In response to
these concerns, the EPA Administrator held information—gathering hearings
in July 1981 to collect new information and hear the public's view on
the use of 1080. Following these informal heaings, EPA received applica-
tions for emergency use and registration of the predacide by the USDI,
and the states of Wyoming, Montana, and South Dakota.

On the basis of the information gathered at the informal hearings
and that presented in the applications, the Administrator determined
that sufficient new evidence existed to warrant reconsideration of the
1972 suspension and cancellation order through a formal adjudicatory
hearing. Hearings were announced in December 1981 and conducted by an
Administrative Law Judge (ALJ) in Washington, D. C., San Angelo, Texas,
and Denver, Colorado, from March 30 to August 6, 1982. During the hearing,
well over 20,000 pages of hearing testimony and exhibits were generated,
with dozens of parties actively participating in the proceeding. Over
90 expert witnesses testified.

The ALJ issued an initial decision in October 1982 recommending that
the Agency permit limited use of compound 1080 in livestock protection
collars and single lethal dose baits. (A single lethal dose bait is a
small ball or cube of meat or tallow material containing a lethal dose
of 1080.) All the major parties involved in the hearing took exception
to the ALJ's decision and appealed to the EPA Administrator for a final
determination. In October 1983, the final decision was issued. It
upheld the ALJ's initial decision to permit use of 1080 subject to stringent
restrictions.

Following this decision, the USDI reactivated its application for
registration of the collar culminating in the decision to approve this
use of 1080. It is unlikely that the 1080 single lethal dose bait will
be considered for registration for another two to three years since
there is not sufficient data to support a registration application. The
USDI is currently developing additional data on 1080 baits under an
EPA-approved experimental use permit.

July 1985

 




 

 

 

 

 

EARIH HATCH BY SAHABAT ALAM MALAISIA
FOR use IN ms smut STAR, 27.1.1985

A JUMBO-SIZED mmammrs 0R DEVELOPMENT

K

 

Land development has been one of the cornerstone of develOpment
and economic policy in Malaysia. This has resulted 1mm. clearing of vast
areas of forests. The inevitable consequence of forest clearing on such a
large scale must be a conflict with the mvirorment. The Asian elephant, as
the largest/racy? vociferous and widest—ranging manual of, the Malaysian forest,
has become the most obvious elemmt of the conflict.

A look at reports of 'rampaging' elephants destroying farmland
indicates the extent of the conflict. For instance, it was reported on Tuesday
that the National Park and Wildlife Department will mmdertake a series of
operations to relocate elephants from several areas in Trenggenu to the National
Park. ‘ - ‘

, The operations are expected to cost the Government a total of
$100,000. About 25 wild elephants are to be relocated, because the docile

animals have become a nuisance to farmers and the Government:

in. 02/.

 




-2_'

Amther mt}: $1.1 million is required to move 24 elephants from
two areas in Feral: to the Rational gags: state Agriculture Comittee animal:
Haji Khalid Nasir said that elephants in Petal: have damaged crops worth $2.8 million
in be district of Teluk Intan alone. The list of elephants causing million of
ringgit in damages goea?§na on. that are the factors to be biomedrfoc the slum:

Land clearance and settlement

, The develoment of vast areas of former forest has led to the smirking
and fragsentation of natural habitat and the natural confrontation betw'een man. ‘.
and the elephant. while 'hman populations are moving into once Sparsely populat-:d
areas, animals have had to mve out. '

Land use uplanningy

According to a report by James A.S.Bhir and Nache H. Noor,at the
International Symposium on conservation inputs from life sciences in 1980, the
distribution of land settlement in Peninsular Malaysia has been dictated more
by logging interest than other factors. This means that conserVational issues,
or for that matter, elephant papulatioas, have been seriously taken into consideration.

Since land is handed by individual states: land develogaent by Federal or
private agencies: and wildlife conservation and forestry are handed by separate
departments, the emergence of a 'mt—my-ptoblem' attitude is not surprising. This _
means that each agency or department is only concerned in implementing its projects
and meeting its target. This, in turn, has spelt disaster for the elephants. .

.
.0

Sri Lanka has managed to mit elephants and dareloment. Gigantic new
new irrigation projects need much mild land in Sri Lanka, but wildlife needs are

considered in Emblem.

 




-3-

me strategy is to set up many and varied protected areas: interlinked
with 'elephant corridors. through land developnent areas. There migratory corridors
allow not only elephants but other large mammals to move from one habitat to
another without encroaching into or destroying agriculture land.

In Malaysia, however, no escape route is provided. Many elephant groups
are trapped in pockets of geographical and genetic isolation. Such groups as
painted out by Blair and Noor are of little conservational value. '

A ‘ W .

Taxman Negara, is perhaps, the only legislated area large enough to
cover the entire range of an elephhnttherd. This limited are allocated for
wildlife conservation means that the Department of Wildlife and National Parks

connot develop 'contaiment' areas.

Blair and N001: pointed out that, "It is therefore generally true to say
that due to lack of coordinated policy and of long ten: visionary planning,
Peninsular Malaysia is in a position of unnecessary crisis in the short term:
unnecessary in that more perceptive strategies could have reduced the elephant-
agriculture confrontation to a considerable extent, both in terms of the length
of the zone of conflict as well as via-adds the size of the opposition."

Halaysia's Current operations to relocate elephants in the National Park
may come face to face with other problems. For instance, in late 1932, Indonesia
decided it needed to more some elephaitsfﬁew transmigation settlements ‘near the
South Sumatra coasts were threatened by elephants herds they had displaced. Some 230
elephants were driven to a proposed National Park 50km away. But elephants have stronc
traditional ties, and half of the elephants broke through an electric fence and
headed hdme.

 




Possible Solutions

“men are a umber of methods available with which to counter or
minimise the eleghmt—aan conflict.

In Burma elephant are protected for practical as well as ethical
reasons. Elepl‘u'mt ate important for ﬂue timber industry. ‘They can 90 pieces
machines can't, they cost less, and they don't need spare part. A government
report on elephant described them as "ainphibious, mather-pmofgulti-purpose,
four—legged machirm.” An esﬁinated 5,400 domensticated elephants are wrung
in logging Operatioms. Each year, some wild» eleﬁmants are captured to maintain
the marking group.

A recent report that Indonesia intends to open vocational schools to
rehabilitate wild elemts testifies to the increasing importame elephants have _
played and can play an important in Third World economy and development. Malaysia
should do well to emulate the use of elephants, especially in logging Operations,
as have been done in Thailand, Emma India and Sri Lenka.

It is also often suggested that zoos should be able to absord displaced
elephants. But the absorptive capacity is low. Even in North America, only 50
is possible, given the long live span of elephants.

Thus, even thong!“ the use of elephants in economic Operations and the i ‘
absorption of there mammals in m can to a certain extent reduce the proportion
of wild elephants, the mnbers of elephants involved is moﬁ’eampored to the amber:
displaced by development. O ‘

 




 

 

. .. 5 ..

, There-are between 700-900 wild elephants'm'pepinsuia: Halaysia,
accroding to the wildlife and National Parks Department. Yet, few elephant
herds today live in peace, undisturbed by huuan develoment: most find that their
range are taken over by agriwltural schema, especially the Federal Land Develogment
Authority (FSLDA) land schemes.

l'l‘he elephants retaliate by either treating the crops grown as their own,
or destroying than. The need for barriers to the movement of wildlife can be seen
as reflective of the disturbed envirorment. i'l‘he fact that barriers, such as electric
fencing, and other physical barriers, are keeping animals out of their farmer homes -
and not in their present sanctuaries is particularly disturbing. {his would mean that
the animals have to turn to crop land for food, signifying that their presents areas
are either too small or unsuitable to support them.

lihat is needed now are more elephants refuges interlinked by migratory or
elephant corridors, as in the Sri Lanka example. There would provide the necessary
large expanse of areal space that can support there large max-canals.

In the long-run, rower, there is need to improve long—tern planning of '
utilisation of land and of other natural resources incorporating conservational
values into the processes that underlie policy making.

If the elephants of Malaysia are not to be viewed as jumbo-size headaches
and problems, and subsequently eliminated because of their 'encroaclment' into

farmland, the Goverzment of 'Malaysia must now take the necessary steps to conserve

and preserve t err. as a national wildlife heritage.

0.. ends n.

 




 

T112 Wasntxcrox Pos-r

LA18 WEDNrsDir SEPTEMBER 4. 1985

9

 

U Of Pa. Accused of F 21111116

To Care for Research Animals
Agriculture Officials Seek $4,000 Penalty

United Press international

The Agriculture Department has
charged the University of Pennsyl-
vania with failure to provide ade-
quate veterinary care for research
primates at the university's Head
Injury Clinic. officials said yesterday.

Federal officials also charged the
university with failure to provide

adequate Ventilation for research ‘

primates—monkeys, apes and sim-
ilar mammals. '

[The research was halted in July
when Health and Human Services
Secretary Margaret Heckler or-
dered funding suspended after an
animal rights group, People for the
Ethical Treatment of Animals,
staged a four-day sit-in at the Na-
tional Institutes of Health in Be-

thesda. Heckler acted after receiv-'.

ing a preliminary report from NIH
investigators retiewing work at the
clinic]

Bert Hawkins,

administrator of '-

the Department of Agriculture's An.
imal and Plant Health Inspection Ser-

-vice, said yesterday that “some am

imals apparently were operated on
without adequate aneSthesia; some
were operated on u." oer unsanitary
conditions and some were not given
adequate care after they had been
injured during experiments."

Hawkins said the university made

an effort to correct ventilation
problems identified in June 1984,
but inspectors found ventilation de-
ficiencies more than a year later.

The department is seeking a
$4,000 civil penalty and an order
requiring the universityi'to stop vi-
olating regulations of the Animal
Welfare Act, which sets standards
for proper care of animals usedin
medical research.

The university will have 20 days
to respond to charges and may re-
quest 3 hearing before an adminis-
trative law judge of the .‘igricult ure
Department. '

 

 

 

 




 

\{rHE SUNDAY STAR-LEDGER. September 22,4935

. Section One: Fag

a)».

e

'1

37 i,

1

 

;
v

‘

Q

C.
n

O
O
.

.

'0
.

- O
I '4.
b

' I.

i; a}? LOlS STEVENSON
‘7 .'.‘Where have all the ducks gone,

a .
a. .

.I .

Y

impre? ’ , . .
,' f ,. I The [1.8. Fish and Wildlife Service
and the Canadian Wildlife Service
‘agree that the number of ducks migrat-
ingLsouth this fall could be the lowest
_n record, down from last year by at
least 22 percent. -
,. “Sporting Classics, a hunting ma ga-
zine, has issued a news release on the
subject, summarizing what it describes
as f‘the most important article in our
‘four-‘year history." It says it's a story
“that has been swept under the rug by
Some of the nation 5 largest conserva-
’ti'bn‘organizations.” The hard-hitting
article, “The Truth About Ducks," ap-
pears in the September-October issue.
. ‘.'_‘Because of conflicting reports on
the status of duck pOpulations, Sporting
'Clatssics sent veteran outdoor writer
'Pdt Robertson to the heart of the Cana-
dian nesting grounds to et the facts.
" ' Robertson learne that mallard
and pintail Opulations are at their
, loWest leve s in history, and blue-
winged teal are at their third-lowest
.' level ever. Mallards are down 47 per-
,centfrom 1955, bluewings 41 percent,
gimails a whOpping 69 percent and
‘ lack ducks a tragic 61 percent.
. Overall, North America's spring
, duck papulation dr0pped 18 percent
from last year, apparently the greatest
'decline since the early part of the cen-
tury, the magazine learned.

f'ANlMAL'S AND PEOPLE
Ducks face

3
l

and what will happen when there are no ‘

3
i

i
t
t

C l ‘ .\

e
- ‘-
~“~_.———-

~' .. ‘What reasons behind this
"growing trend toward disaster in
' dUCkS? - m 1 . - , '..
w - Robertson says the main culprit is
'the five~year drought on the Canadian
prairie, which dried up thousands of
potholes used by due 5 for nesting
. areas With the ducks gone, these areas
have been converted to croplands, fur-
ther reducing the habitat for ducks.
4; .. Habitat destruction has become sa
- extensive that some biologists question .
:whether duck populations can recover
'aslhey have in the past.
I“Enormous hunting pressure is
.'compounding the problem,” the sport-
”ing' magazine points out. In some Spe-

are ”the

extinction as

 

- .cies, such as mallards, hunters are no
longer “harvesting a surplus,” but are ‘
‘ destro ing breeding stock
'. ;..h{eanwhile, hunting organizations,

 

. reluctant to have their activities cur-
' tailed, are making an effort to contra-'
:dict wildlife agencies’ descriptions of
: the problem.
‘ * '. ' For example, Ducks Unlimited, es-
;tablished many years ago to promote
and‘preserve waterfowl hunting, has is-
. g 'sued a news release based on a study by
jitij’s chief Canadian biologist, Sandy
- Macaulay. He has prepared a report
stating t at duck breeding in various
Canadian provinces is increasing.
‘ ‘ “For southern Canada as a whole,"
, Macaulay says, “expect an improved
. flight over 1984, especially from rai.
rie Canada, but one which will st' 1 be
below the long-term norm.”
Because of the conflict between
_ some hunting organizations and 0.8.
, and Canadian wildlife agencies, the
. trustees of the Delta Waterfowl and
Wetlands Research Station, a leader in
waterfowl research, issued the'followo
ing statement: “We should recognize
that the decline in duck numbers is un-
‘ precedented and extremely serious.
. This calls for an end to the bicker-
ingjover the resource. If we don’t act

 

v

correctly now, there will be no ducks‘
left to fight over.”

And what. exactly, is “acting cor-
rectly?” -

A statement by the federal wild-
life service says state, federal and Ca«
nadian wildlife councils are discussing
“possible restrictions" on duck hunting
for the 1985-86 season, starting this
fall. One federal official says the coun
oils have been instructed to plan on a
25-percent cut in the number of ducks
shot this year. - '

This will include reducing daily
bag limits and shortening the season, or

. some other combination to lower the
duck slaughter.

Meantime, one of the biggest kill-

Populaﬁens’Idecline-

‘ " .- a

I

-- r g... -:___

 

ers of waterfowl, lead shot used b
hunters, destroys an estimated 2 mi -
lion to 3 million ducks and geese every
year, as well as making them more vul-
nerable to large die-offs from avian
cholera and botulism. Lead-poisoned
birds also suffer irreversible brain
damage. , ..

Scientists also claim lead poison.
ing is adversel affecting waterfowl re-
production an species survival.

Here, again, hunters are reluctant
to comply with corrective measures.
They resist any pr0posed change to
nontoxic steel 5 ot and Oppose regula-
tions setting aside specific areas where

lead shot would be prohibited
in response to a suit filed by the

-

- and Oregon are affected.

o\.« .--.b¢
. . — a- 4.-. -
. ' wusywcpy

National Wildlife Federation in June, a
federal judge last month ordered the
U.S. Department of the Interior to ban
waterfowl hunting with lead shot in
parts of five states. to rotect the en-
dangered bald eagle. mall areas in
California, Illinois, Missouri, Oklahoma

But no real major effort has been
made to spare the lives of waterfowl by
banning lead shot ' -

Based on hunters’ a parent intent
to maintain waterfowl estruction no
matter what its impact might be, the
nonhunting public might do well to de-
mand a halt to all waterfowl hunting
before ducks, geese, swans-and eagles
go the way of the passenger pigeon and
disappear forever. ‘ ,

 

 

 

 

 

LOtS STE .. aw;

GREEN BROOK, N.J. 08812-2098

‘ O“.

 




F.A.W.C. TELLS
RITUAL KILLERS
TO STUN

The Farm Animal Welfare Council has
recommended that animals being slaughtered
by Jews and Moslems should be stunned
humanely and effectively, and that the law
which exempts religious minorities from this
requirement be repealed within three years. '

Further, that the use of rotary slaughtering
pens which turn cattle upside down to facilitate
the throat cutting, should be banned within two
years.

The report says:

“The up—to-date scientiﬁc evidence
available, and our own observations,
leave no doubt in our minds that
religious methods of slaughter, even
when carried out under ideal condi-
tions, must result in a degree of pain,
suﬁfering and distress which does not
occur in the properly stunned animal. "

But the Board of Deputies of British Jews
reacted angrily, saying that the report consti—
tuted “an inherent attack on civic and religious
rights’

The actual bleeding to death is not the sum
total of the suffering, as the report states:

“Apart from the actual infliction of
nain. we are acutely aware ofthe terror
and discomfort which ensue from the
inversion of cattle, followed by forcible
extension of the neck, often resulting in
the animal banging its head on the
ﬂoor.

U nnecessa rv distress was caused to un-
stunned sheep when they were picked
up by the ﬂeece or dragged consider—
able distances from the crowded pen to
the cradle or table on which they were
to be slaughtered. "

At this time there are 89 red meat slaughter-
houses involved in religious killing and 21
poultry slaughter halls. Each year an esti‘
mated 91,200 cattle, 1,559,000 sheep and
goats and 1 11/2 million poultry are slaughtered
by ritual killing methods.

Dr Syed Aziz Pasha, general secretary for
the Union of Muslim Organisations, said:

“The report is illogical, unscientiﬁc
and motivated by prejudice against
religious minorities. ”

In recent years Halal, the Muslin ritual
killing, has become big business with Middle
Eastern markets opening up the export of beef
and sheepmeat killed by Moslems. However,
only the most extreme fundamentalists in the
Middle East oppose humane pre-stunning.
Even the Egyptian government delegation to
the Uruguay beefplants a few years ago raised
no objection to the animals being humanely
stunned with a captive bolt pistol before they
were hoisted up in the air and bled.

The Times editorial commented:

“On a reductionist view what we are
discussing are rules of hygiene or of
respect for life (identiﬁed with blood),
once observed by primitive nomadic
peoples but long since crystalized into
hallowed ritual. Ritual may possess a
Signiﬁcance worthy of respect unre—
lated to its origin or utility, and
violated dietary customs pro voke ﬁerce
passions, as the British with their long
experience of India should not need

to be taught. Nevertheless other
religious communities have learnt to
distinguish the inessential from the
essential in their ceremonies, and the
Jews and Muslims among us may be
requested to do no less. "

The act of stunning is rejected by Jewish
authorities as an injury to the animal and their
religious rules require that at the time of the
knife-slash, the animal shall be without blemish
and so permitted, or kosher.

Yet frequently veal calves arrive from the
factory farm with swollen hocks and suffering
from sub-clinical anaemia. Others are injured
when the rotary pen inverts the animal. Appar-
rently not all injury is counted.

1n Norway, Sweden, Iceland, Switzerland
and Luxembourg, the ritual killing ofthe cons—
cious animal is prohibited.

In Finland animals ritually killed must be
stunned immediately the throat has been cut.

In New Zealand Halal is only permitted
after stunning and in Denmark the Muslims
have agreed to stun cattle before Halal.

A letter to the Times on 19 August sums up
much of the argument. It includes this state-
ment:.

“One must respect other people 's reli 7‘
ious law, but it is not proper that a
m inority's custom should be allowed to
offend the moral sense of the majority. "
'"W* The Minister ongriculture is
60” to study the report carefully
and interested parties are invited to send
written comments on the recommendations in
England, to Meat Hygiene Division A,
Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food,
1 lth Floor, Tolworth Tower, Surbiton, Surrey
KT6 7DX', in Scotland, to Livestock Products
Division, Room 157, Department of Agricul-
ture and Fisheries for Scotland, Chesser
House, 500 Gorgie Road, Edinburgh EH1 1
3AW; and in Wales, to Welsh Ofﬁce Agri-
culture Department, 2A, Cathays Park,
Cardiff CF1 3NQ, by October 31,1985.

The Farm Animal Welfare Council 1985
Report on the welfare of livestock when
slaughtered by religious methods, Reference
262 can be obtained from HMSO or through
booksellers, £4.20.

 

ARE THESE PIGS
RITUALLY KILLED?

It is not generally realised that over 300
butchers’ and grocers’ shops in Israel sell pork,
bacon and ham and that an estimated one
million Jews eat the forbidden meat.

Pig meat is forbidden by Jewish religion
because it is said to be unclean but Israeli Jews
have been acquiring a taste for pork especially.
Kibbutz Mizra, in the North ofthe country is
the biggest pig producer and employs 70
people. There are 20 other producers supply—
ing in all 10,000 tonnes of pork a year for
Jewish consumption.

The Jews claim that their religion forbids
them to eat pig, and that it also insists that
when a food—animal is killed it must be bled to
death while conscious, i.e. not rendered
insensible to pain by pre-stunning.
The question arises then: do they pre—stun
when killing pigs or do they practice their
rituals on them too?

The Knesset, or Israeli parliament, has abill
to debate on whether pork sales should be
made illegal.

10

Ag. Scene, October 1985

It is extraordinary that in their own home—
land the law allows Jews to negate the very
religious traditions that they insist Should be
upheld and observed here even to the extent of
giving them special exemption from our law.

 

F .A.W.C. TO
REVIEW WELFARE
OF LIVESTOCK IN
TRANSIT

The Farm Animal Welfare Council is
undertaking a study of the welfare of livestock
in transit to include poultry and horses.

The review will cover all aspects, whether
on or off the farm, by road, rail, sea and air.
Consideration will be given to such matters as
loading and unloading; handling; the respon-
sibilities of owners, hauliers and drivers; the
design of trucks and length ofjourneys. The
adequacy of existing legislation will be
questioned.

F.A.W.C. has already reviewed all aspects
of slaughter and the welfare of animals in
markets, which is likely to be completed later

this year.
= The Council is inviting com—
AG’TlON’ ments or submissions on the
subject. These should be made in writing to:
The Secretary, Farm Animal Welfare
Council, Block B, Government Buildings,
Hook Rise South, Tolworth, Surbiton, Surrey
KT6 7NF by 3| October 1985.

When enquiring into ritual slaughter,
F.A.W.C. received written submissions from
106 members of the public.

Injuries to Animals in Transit
Costs Millions

The original report in fact, said ‘damage’ not
‘injuries’ but I have altered this because they
are living animals.

In the report to the EEC Commission it was
pointed out that ‘damage’ to the animals loses
traders millions of pounds through bruised
meat, unnecessary deaths and meat affected
by stress in the animals. The Commission had
asked the farm research standing committee
whether a maximum journey time should be
laid down.

In a separate survey the Meat & Livestock
Commission examined 10,000 pigs after
transport and found that over half were
damaged, 44% were injured during ﬁghting in
transit, 14 were dead. It also found that in a
consignment of fat lambs 10% suffered
bruising resulting in a ﬁnancial loss of £1
million.

The report believes that most of these
injuries were preventable and were caused
mainly by bad lighting, poor segregation, over—
crowding, excessively steep ramps and the
over liberal use of electric goads.

Under the old Balfour Assurances, now’
revoked, animals exported from UK for
slaughter on the continent were limited to a
journey of62 miles or 100 km. from the port.
Nor was it legal to export any animal for ritual
slaughter. Our ‘improved’ welfare standards
now allow these things and consignments of
animals go on 800-mile journeys by road to
Italy.

 

 




i»->.A-e.

n..... e... _,...,..

_ a.» w‘,- 4‘». “we.“ p. ‘........v----;. -

-.. A, . ._... &A*--A~v—-.TOI--4~—IA~O~.-_‘_--A.‘.~r-‘ “.4. _.. --_ . . .

Ag. Scene, October 1985

CASE LOST AT
DARMSTADT

The district court at Darmstadt has again
rejected as unproven charges of cruelty .
brought against a battery egg producer.

" It was in April 1979 that the
' ' RECAP High Court in Frankfurt over-
turned a decision of the Darmstadt court
which had not considered battery cages to
be an offence under the West German
Protection of Animals Act. The High
Court ruled that there was sufﬁcient
evidence of a punishable offence involving
the infliction of extensive or repeated pain
and torture”. (Der Spiegel 16 July 1979).
The German Minister, Herr Ertl, went
to the European Commission asking for an
EEC ban on battery cages, seeking joint
action. In July 1980 a European Council
resolution asserted that battery cages are a
proﬁtable method of egg production. It
could not recommend a ban on their use, it
said, even though they could in certain
circumstances lead to unnecessary and
excessive suffering. The EC. decided to
draw up a set of minimum standards for the
welfare of hens in battery cages and it set
its face against the idea of getting the hens
out of the cages.

At that time about 200 court cases were
pending against battery farmers in West
Germany. The German government then
‘held over‘ these cases pending a political
solution. The State Prosecutor's oflice
declined to prepare any cases while the
European Commission was preparing a
ruling.

Four years later, in July 1984, the
Social Affairs Minister for the State of
Hesse, Herr Clauss, decided that in the
absence of any agreement at European or
Federal level, the ruling of the Frankfurt
Court —- which was itself in line with the
European Convention of 1976 -— must be
observed within Hessen. He ordered the
veterinary departments run by the State to
trace all battery farming premises and
close them down after the expiry of tax
deduction. Meanwhile no new battery
installations would be permitted.

3,600,00 hens would have to come out
of their cages by the end of their tax
amortization period. Until then light breed
hens must be given 600 sq. cm. each and
heavier breeds 900 sq. cm. each.
(Compare normal in UK. 460 sq. cm.).

The battery owners protested loudly'

and the egg industry announced legal

action against the minister.

Early this year the public prosecutor took
legal action against two of the country’s
largest battery owners. The case, again heard
at Darmstadt, took three days. Professor
Bessei gave evidence that battery cages are
appropriate for chicken. It is true, he said, that
the hens’ claws cannot wear down as they
would if the birds were on free range scratch—
ing the ground. According to the Heikendorf—
based Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
.Farm Animals, Prof. Bessei turned this
around and testiﬁed that with longer claws
they were steadier in their cages. He did not
mention that the long claws sometimes get
trapped in the wire cage floor and can be torn
out by the panicking hen.

The court was inﬂuenced by the massive
presence of the defence and their scientists.

The Court found that cruelty had not been
proven.

Dr. Wolfgang Holz who is vet to 600,000
laying hens, accepts that cages have their
disadvantages and affect the hens’ welfare,
that they suffer from too little exercise, cannot
use nests and cannot fulﬁl their need for
scratching . . . “but these inconveniences are
not too much for the chicken”.

Commenting on their bare bodies he said
that the feathers get broken on the wire . . .
“and the chicken do not at all care whether
they have feathers or not”.

In 1980 Nobel prizewinner and animal
behaviour expert Konrad Lorenz wrote in
Der Spiegel about “the shabby excuses ofthe
agricultural scientists who say one cannot
know for certain what an animal is feeling”.

We cannot indeed, nor can we even know
what the next man or woman in the street is
feeling, but that is no reason to exploit them
cruelly. When they cannot tell us how they are
feeling, as with babies, lunatics and the deaf
and dumb, we give them the beneﬁt of the
doubt, and use our power of judgement.
Should we use this power of judgement for
members of our own species and suddenly
shut it offwhen we turn to animals? Evidently
the Darrnstadt Court, like Steyning Court,
thinks so.

 

 

 

The public prosecutor has appealed against
the verdict of Darmstadt.

The Minister for Social Affairs of Hesse
has stated that he will not let himself be
inﬂuenced by the verdict of Darmstadt. He
has the earlier ruling of a higher court —— that
of the supreme court of appeal at Frankfurt —
and he will press ahead with his plans to phase
battery cages out of the State for which he is
responsible.

F .A.W. C.
CONDEMNS
BATTERY CAGES!

The Government’s ofﬁcial advisory body
The Farm Animal Welfare Council, has
produced a consultative document which
condemns the battery cage on the grounds that
it denies or seriously restricts the hen’s
freedom to express natural patterns of behav-
iour, and may cause chronic discomfort.
Compassion in World Farming has been
campaigning on these grounds for years. As
90% of eggs produced in Britain come from
battery hens, the F.A.W.C. document will no
doubt produce strong reaction from battery
producers, and rejoicing amongst animal
rights campaigners.

' , ' You may care to quote this

ACTIQN. F.A.W.C. document when
campaigning or writing to MPs.

 




 

 

 

ACF Newsletter June 1905

“MN/fa... ~ Him >15. _, _ .-- .i.‘ ..~.‘v'.‘, . .
‘ .-"" _" > .' -’.L‘.“.,w . . ' ‘ " ’

 

by Andrew Black, ACF Councillor, SA

Sulphur-crested Cockatoos, and Galahs may be destroyed in their thousands
throughout the country but we are not allowed to sell them overseas. Our Governments
and wildlife authorities are determined to retain such a policy despite its almost annual
exposure in the nation’s media and parliaments. John Stackhouse in the Bulletin of
October 30th, 1984 was among the latest to investigate this apparent anomaly.

As a committed wildlife conservationist I can think of no harm that could possibly
come to either of these abundant birds by developing a large and lucrative export
market for them. Yet I am totally opposed to it, my reasons having little to do with the
biology of cockatoos but a lot to do with the behaviour of other species, notably Homo
sapiens (sub species acquisitivus, the “Quickbuck Ape”).

Before I state my reasons for opposing export trade in common native birds. it is
useful to examine the reasons put forward in its favour.

The most obvious argument, and the one that usually leads to publicity and political
agitation, is the fact that Galahs, Sulphur—crested Cockatoos, Corellas and some
Rosellas, Lorikeets and other parrots, can have a very significant impact upon
agricultural productivity. Grain producers and fruit growers may in some localities and
some seasons, have their crops quite drastically depleted by the activities of native
birds. They are allowed to shoot some birds with the approval of State authorities or
they may use other deterrent devices. These methods are limited in their effectiveness,
and farmers regularly therefore appeal to governments for greater protection.

But is trapping any more reliable than other methods, and will opening an export
trade in the birds thus trapped give real benefit to the affected farmers?

The evidence from published studies examining wild bird—crop interactions shows
that trapping is but one of many methods that can be used. t may be effective for
certain species in certain situations. However the programme must be designed purely
to protect the crop, irrespective of any potential market for the birds. it is pretty obvious
that the most abundant species, those that will have the greatest impact on agriculture,
will attract the lowest price in the cage bird market place. An example of this ettect
was a recent attempt by the South Australian authorities to trap and sell Adeiaide
Rosellas that were raiding apple orchards. The market was saturated almost
immediately, and the scheme was certainly not profitable.

Probably the greatest scope for trapping is its deterrent effect. Ray Ackroyd, the
Cockatoo trapper in western Victoria, explained to John Stackhouse that his method
broke up the flocks and frightened them away from vulnerable fields. whether the birds
were captured for sale or released almost immediately. it is not sale of birds but use of
a scaring device that keeps the cockatoos away trom the crops.

Finally, if birds do have to be removed from the wild because of their interference
with farming, how many will have to be exported, in order to be effective? Would 50,000
Sulphur-crested Cockatoos and 250,000 Galahs be a sufficient annual harvest? lithe
trade cannot handle this number, what will be the benefit to Australia‘s farmers? lithe
export is only through one port. (say Sydney), how will the farmers in western New South
Wales be helped? Let alone those in other States?

Farmers and their representative organisations should be wary oi accepting the
arguments of the bird trade lobby, who advocate liberalisation not only of the export of
native birds, but of the import of exotic bird species as well. The latter should be viewed
. . . with considerable concern, especially by Australia‘s poultry industry.

Daintree 8‘ The Barrier Reef The second argument for allowing legal export oi native birds is that it would lessen
From Cape Tribulation ‘0 Dunk island and their illegal export Quite obviously this is true, as far it applies to ‘tnoce species we

the Whitsunday Passage $99 the Barrier permit to be exported. Furthermore, the more species we approve, the less crime there
Fleef'away from tCrUr'lSt haunts. The trip ' will be! But the reason for the ban is not to protect Galahs but those other native birds
3’50 includes Carnarvon C30799 and whose continued existence is threatened by the pressure to supply a world-wide
Eungella National Parks. demand for individuals in private aviaries. This pressure would i" “seen if our

$759 ‘5‘”; Sydney plus $270 one-way commoner birds were easier to obtain overseas. The collecting drive does not work that
enters from C-airns. way: to the contrary, the more Australia‘s tauna is seen overse: the greet-w would :39.
Sunday July 28 to Sunday August “it. the demand for our rarer species. ,

F07 more details: ' The bird trade knows this, and it knows that some of itsper. ' will do rell out

Trekaway Ply Ltd. . of a relaxation of the export ban. It also knows that once relar it is c titer of

7 Sharon 17:056. time and continued persuasive lobbying, for more and more 5;: :es to led in

E‘iOrnSby NSV‘VI 2,7,7. the legal “St
'g'iiitlillihmﬁ {€32} 477 5950 . .-= A third argument is the humanitarian one. Why should pan-r {tan

or

' fl'u‘.‘ r

_,‘ “grins: arr» .. , . '._;.y,,,,~_--~r..i. ”Vi-trig} , ﬂ , Al, - ”z,“ - . : .‘V , ﬂ,
sari: .-.,l. . aliowed a continued existence. in captivuy? is i: more humans

5

 

 




 

 

 

.11
'i
.j‘ , IV
. .' ,'I u '
.‘;‘ , .5; 13. ‘5
9". . l I". I- h,
3.7 5. wl: J;
“1‘74... V ' rt: ‘3" If; .i' " 6'“ I
,J-‘r' ‘ ' - '
,~_-'» .-
.~i~ ~ ,
l at:

Ackroyd will attest to the distress that causes), transport them and store them in
Australia, and then export them to second, third and fourth countries for wholesale,
retail and private placement? Or is it more humane to use other methods, including the
limited killing of individuals in the wild where necessary? These problems are
unprovable and answers must be subjective. Better many thousands transported legally
or hundreds smuggled? The latter will continue anyway.

The fourth argument is a commercial one. An export trade would be a valuable one:
it could even put money back into research! The latter proposition is extremely
dubious. It is much more likely that government agencies would lose money because of
the increased surveillance, inspection and research required. More research would be
necessary because new and unproved pressures would be applied to wildlife
populations. '

Even the trade itself might not continue to be profitable if it was limited to those
abundant species that were causing harm, and it was required to,.export the numbers
necessary to overcome that harm. ’ ‘

So far I have only argued that the export of native birds will not achieve what its
proponents claim. I have only hinted at the conservation reasons against it.

The main point is that we are concerned about impact upon rare and endangered
species, not abundant ones. The former species may be declining for many reasons
but it would be quite irresponsible to add yet anotheradverse influence. Many of our
rarer parrots are keenly desired for the cage bird trade. The destruction of nest hollows
in trees and termite mounds demonstrates that illegal activities continue. As the South
Australian authorities found out a few years ago, it is just not possible to allow trappers
to take only a limited number of species. They will take others. The more trapping
activity occurring in the country, the greater is the pressure on desirable birds that are
not official target species. More trapping means more transport and more storage. The
pipelines are established for handling illegally trapped birds: these stretch across the
country; it is not simply a matter of'increasing surveillance at the one legal point of
export.

i cannot be persuaded that legalising the overseas trade in Galahs will lessen the
pressures on Scarlet chested, Princess and Golden-shouldered Parrots. i am convinced
that the opposite is more likely.

it also must be evident that increasing the legal trade in wildlife would demand a
concomitant increase in manpower for our wildlife law enforcement agencies. Yet there
is so much more urgent and important work to be done for our wildlife: basic biological
research. population management, monitoring, habitat protection and so on. It would
be a needless waste of our limited resources to direct a greater share to law
enforcement. It is time for a much more positive approach.

Space is not sufficient for a full discussion of ways in which we can enhance
protection for our rarer birds. It is well to consider however that the USA experiences
no commercial pressures on its native birds. It is simply illegal to keep them in
captivity. While such an approach cannot be practicably applied in this country, it
seems logical to work towards a strict limitation of the number of species that may be
held in private aviaries. It would certainly not be helpful to encourage a major increase
in cagebird trade activity by opening up an export market.

My final comment concerns the observation that one country’s wildlife may become
another's pest. Exotic birds do establish themselves in the wild. Can we therefore
reasonably expect to overcome our own Cockatoo problem by exporting them in
immense numbers without running the risk of causing the same problem elsewhere?

It is very clear that some farmers may be adversely affected by large numbers of our
more abundant parrots and cockatoos. it is very proper for our agricultural and wildlife
authorities to co—operate with one another and with the taming community to develop
better management strategies so that crops are more effecitvely protected.

However i believe that pressure to ailow these birds to be exported is poorly directed.
ft is doubtful in the extreme whether such a scheme could help more than a handful of
farmers for a few seasons only. '»

Claims that a legal export trade will reduce smuggling miss the point that the latter
will always be attractive to the unscrupulous who know the price that our rarer species
can bring overseas. The humanitarian argument is doubtful at best and the value of the
trade must be offset against the increased expense of government departments
supervising the trade and protecting our rarer species.

The bird trade lobby has an interest in this scheme. Farmers and the rest of the
community must not be misled by a plausible but specious proposition.

ACF Newsletter June 1985

 

 

ACF Antarctica
Conference &

Festival

The theme chosen for the ACF
National Conference 1985 will be
“Antarctica —— World Heritage
Wonderland”.

The title of the Conference

. section will be: “The Antarctic

Under Threat”.

THE AIM:

(a) to develop public awareness of
the threats to the Antarctic
environment (is. the Continent and
Surrounding Seas) and the
solutions to them by means of
authoritative talks followed by
discussion.

(b) to provide a forum for the
expression of conservation group
views on conservation measures
suitable for the Antarctic.

Contributors to the morning ‘
sessions of the Conference include:

The Minister for Science,

Mr Barry Jones;

The Director, ACF,

Dr Geoff Mosley;

Professor Bill Budd, Meteorology

Dept, University of Melbourne;

Mr Dick Smith, Dick Smith

Adventures.

The afternoon sessions, which
will have a more festive
atmosphere, will include on the
Saturday a “Teenage Workshop",
for secondary students of Biology,
Geography, Politics, Social Studies
and related subjects. On the
Sunday there will be a “Forum for
Discussion".

Speakers at the “Teenage
Workshop” will include Senator
Norm Sanders, and Lyn
Goldsworthy.

For the “Forum". acceptances
have been received from Mr Dick
Smith. and Senator David Vigor.

The programme will include film
and slide shows, and all day static
displays. Lunch will be available in
the cafeteria.

The Conference will be held at:
Union House, University of
Melbourne.

Dates: 14th and 15th September

1985.
Enquiries for further information

may be directed to:
Margaret Moore
Antarctica Project Officer
672b Glenferrie Road
Hawthorn, Vic. 3122.
Phone: 03-819 2888 Ext I?“
03378 2394 AH

 

 

 

 




v ‘Vl um,»-~w---v -\- It...” *0 -- .. .... .. - . u . ~. 1., ,_ ‘ ... . u .v. ., .‘ ,,‘ . .~ ‘7. ‘_ 4 ...”. M.

.‘V‘1‘;.§\by;,v
; , I 4 -

I, F} E". ...a.‘ ,.'

f", -‘. ‘ 3' P".-

5

.

."'"

“‘1'," .,

U

A

w
Ir

wan-he hunks... _-, ..xs... Jugs-“in; 44...“.

AI! 1.

-, " ' - ,,.40_-‘2-_V~"""~w . ‘ . . ., ' ' -

., 1'" 'w
v a ‘ J O
. z .‘-“. '
Aw-..“ .Wk

we - .
Z \
3“" .I - ~ .
, In- ‘w. .'
nan-“.91 (4;... ,

‘. 'g. .o' ‘
“H... An- ,- - . . ' ‘ , .' _ ‘ "’.', ’ﬁi,’

If

.. ..

"V '—

,_ V .
.
WW1?

Published every two months

FRICAQ-CARIBBEAN

‘,
'--...-2’-

.135; '

L
~

‘3.-

“$1“:

:5,

PACIFIC
‘74:

~.Y

.V‘YF—q"
*s-Ux-I
_ 53?.”

«HI‘ ‘
" I. _

r n

'b‘

J?
Air
:45. !’

14741;...- .'

1 'p‘- ?
~ ~ .I.
‘\

 

a”
,5

.-— 7
"PM;
:41.

t“

‘4“
>-‘.'1

O .

. *w' . , 1
,‘V‘h ‘
Alas}: ; .A ‘

1W. - i"

 

EUROPEAN COMMUNITY
N° 90 -— MARCH-APRIL 1985

'.

":93: .9 ' O h + "'
.Jéuvr; . (”$49.4

 

 




 

 

 

.‘WF" "W'vJy-iv ..q-pvw",r?’;w

AAA- 4'“_".A

77.."

LA: “who‘ve-Ow.“ u.- ~..u._~m. . g

If! ACP-BOTS“’A NA

Living up to principles

Interview with Dr Quett Masire,”
President of Botswana

. Dr Quett Masire became President of Botswana following the death,
in July 1980, of Srr Seretse Khama. During these ﬁve years, Botswana’s
economy has grown steadily and, along with it, the country’s importance

in Africa and in African affairs.

In the following interview (1), President Masire states his views on the
political and economic srtuation of Africa, on Botswana’s economic
obrectrves and on the Lomé Convention.

Ir Mr President, a certain atmo-
sphere of lethargy has reigned in Africa
over the past ﬁve years in the face of
the worsening political situation in
Southern Africa, i.e. the apparent suc-
cess of South Africa’s gun-boat diplo-
macy, and the drought and famine that
are creating havoc in several parts of
the continent. What is your analysis of
the situation and how do you see, in
this context, the recent OAU Summit
in Addis Ababa? Do you not think the
time has come for a reorganization of
the 0A U .7

—- We were hopeful in 1980 when
Zimbabwe became independent that
the situation in Southern Africa was
changing for the better. We have been
proved completely wrong. South Afri-
ca has since then arrogated to herself
the role of policeman in the region and
a custodian of regional security and
political morality. Apartheid remains
the root cause of political instability
and destabilization in Southern Africa.
But, the authorities in Pretoria see this
matter differently. For this reason,
when the liberation forces strike deep
in South Africa, scapegoats are always
sought and found elsewhere in the re-
gion and this has led to unrestrained
destabilization, either direct or by
proxy, of countries neighbouring
South Africa. Today South Africa de-
mands to enter into non-aggression
agreements with the neighbouring
states in the belief that resistance to
apartheid oppression will be curtailed
once the non-aggression pact takes ef-
fect. This is a complete falsification of
the situation. The problems of South
Africa are internal and the South Afri-
can authorities must ﬁnd an internal
solution to them. Confrontation be-
tween the police and rioters is a daily

(1) Written.

occurrence inside South Africa and
only' a fool can be made to believe that
a solution can be found outside the
borders of South Africa.

Equally, South Africa demands the
withdrawal of Cuban troops from An-
gola as a pre-condition for the imple-
mentation of the UN Security Council
Resolution 435. This linkage is clearly
extraneous to the Namibian issue but
South Africa demands it as an assur-
ance that an independent Namibia
will not have strong neighbours to
pose a threat to apartheid. If there is
any lethargy, it cannot be ascribed to
Africa but to those who have the
means and inﬂuence to restrain South
Africa. Africa is weak and South Afri-
ca has taken full advantage of the situ-
ation.

The drought and famine situation in
Africa is very serious and what is even
more painful is the fact that no solu-

tion seems to be in sight. Of all the
countries in the world that are recr-

pients of food aid, over 30 are in Afri-
ca. This is humiliating to African
pride and dignity. The seriousness of
the situation was recognized by the re-
cent OAU Summit. Apart from the
resolutions adopted on Southern Afri-
ca and other areas of concern to Afri-
ca, the Summit established a Special
Emergency Assistance Fund for
drought and famine in Africa. Devel-
oping and developed countries and the
UN Agencies are called upon to con-
tribute generously to the Fund. The
African leaders, however, also recog-
nized that the ultimate responsibility
of feeding Africa rests with the Afri-
cans themselves. The Summit also es-
tablished a Drought and Famine Re-
lief Fund to which Algeria and Libya
pledged S 10 m each. The Summit also
agreed that the next Council of Minis-
ters Meeting should be a joint one be-

'WW

MIAMI 1.4.44.3)

E2 "g-q guy: L
m 0. V'. \

“I ‘ ‘
‘M U3 _ ‘2- . .
.. ., ,

kw“, , "It‘t"?""i"‘g ”r

”5": :2

, a. ...,
\ﬁ' 15* '
”new. .
v 5’;
.., . .

. 0. _
¢.. ,_.
c a" ‘43‘ . ..
\ ..'. in

, . , , .- .., 1.1,!va >49 , xii
tween Foreign and Economic Affairs
Ministers to prepare for 'the let Sum-
mit which will be devoted for most
part to economic issues including
drought and famine.

I consider the recent OAU Summit
to have been a success even though it
was unfortunate that Morocco decided
to quit and Zaire to suspend her mem—
bership of the Organization. The OAU
has come of age. The predictions of
the doomsayers that the OAU was in
for another tumble were frustrated by
Africa’s commitment to her unity. I
hope that in time we shall have Mor-
occo and Zaire back in the fold. There
exists a Charter Review Committee
that is looking into the question of
whether or not there is need to reor-
ganize the OAU. Once its work is ﬁ-
nalized we shall see which areas need
reorganization. The immediate reor-
ganization that I think is necessary is
that of rededication to the principles
and objectives of the OAU. We have
had enough of the polemics and bril-
liant proposals but no follow-up ac-
tion yet. This is what Africa should do
now in order to keep abreast of the
changing circumstances. .

> How would you characterize Bot-
swana’s attitude towards South Afri-
ca?

— Our attitude towards South Afri-
ca is one of frustrations at the way
things are run in that country. We be-
lieve in a democratic South Africa in
which all South Africans can live in
peace and freedom in spite of their
racial diversity. This means the dis-

0

‘ mantlement of apartheid and its re-

placement by democratic structures
and institutions that will accommo-
date all racial groups in the political

The Courier no. 90 - March-April I985 13

 




 

1""! Y“, ‘1'; . .- “ r—v “r . 7’3”“: rwv .. .r-r'y

Athims, .-

(i In 1'” "'1‘"

'.-v n-au .- wag .u. .‘I‘w‘-3‘.

.. ,s an. “La-.31»- Luv“ :1»! 1..

 

.-;..:.:;.-.~t:,;Aer-BOTSWANA r22." .. .

 

 

and economic decision-making. This
is what we feel the South African au-
thorities should start doing for the al-
ternative is continued violence and
loss of human life. The democratiza-
tion of South African society can still
be done. It is never too late in human
affairs to bring about the desired

change. .
b How do you see the recent consti-

tutional changes in South Africa?

— The recent constitutional
changes in South Africa are unaccepta-
ble to Botswana because the majority
black people have been left out in the
cold. Even the Indian and“ “Co-
loureds” Chambers in the new system

are still subordinate to the White

chamber. This shows that the new
constitution is but a facade aimed at
making these who do not know the
South African situation well to believe
that the process of change has begun.
Apartheid remains the policy of South
Africa and the new constitution has
entrenched this system. It leaves much
to be desired. Most “Coloureds” and
Indians saw it for what it is and re-
jected it by staying away from the
polls.

b» Is a non-aggression pact of the
Nkomati type on the cards between
Botswana and South Africa?

— Botswana does not wish to sign a
non-aggression pact of any kind with
South Africa. We abhor the system of
apartheid but do not harbour any ag-
gressive intentions towards South
Africa nor, for that matter, against any
of our neighbours. We stand by our
time-tested policy of non-use of Bot-
swana territory for attacks against our
neighbours. Botswana is not at war
nor has it ever been at war with South
Africa. Therefore, we do not under-
stand the import of non—aggression
treaty. Our image would be irrepara-
bly tarnished and our word would not
be respected as ours any more if we
were to sign such a pact. Clearly, we
stand to lose everything and gain
nothing by signing a treaty with South
Africa. This is why we have resisted
pressure to sign such an accord and
hope to continue doing so in the fu-
ture.

I? Botswana is a prominent mem-
ber of the SADC C ; what is your opin-
ion, though, of the PTA (2)?

-- The SADCC and the PTA are
very young organizations in the histo-
ry of regional groupings. Both have to

be given a chance to evolve and to
demonstrate their relevance to the
present economic situation in this part
of Africa. -

My own view is that any organiza-
tion that brings real economic beneﬁts
to the region should be welcome. That
to us is the standard against which the
SADCC and the PTA will be judged.
In other words, I believe it is too early
to form an opinion on the PTA.

> Botswana ’5 economy is based es—
sentially on diamond and beef; what
role has been reserved for agriculture,
bearing in mind the present food situa-
tion in Africa? ‘

—- While the Botswana economy is
dependent on the sales of diamonds
and beef for revenue and foreign ex-
change earnings, 80% of the total pop-
ulation is classiﬁed as rural and as
such is partially dependent upon ara-
ble production for income and em-
ployment. Thus the agricultural sector
has a major role to play in fulﬁlling
national objectives of social justice,
increasing economic grth and eco-
nomic independence.

During the next Development Plan
(1985/86-1990/91), agricultural policy
will be aimed at providing the rural
population with adequate incomes and
employment opportunities, increasing
agricultural production and achieving
food self-sufficiency. Programmes
such as the Arable Lands Develop-
ment Programme will continue during
NDP VI with a view to assisting small
farmers while additional projects such
as Arable Recovery Measures will be
introduced to provide arable produc-
ers with assets lost during the present
drought. Because of the high incidence
of drought in Botswana and the da-
maging effects on dryland agricultural
production, the potential of irrigated
agriculture will be examined. If this
proves to be viable, private and para-
statal investment will be encouraged
in order to develop irrigated agricul-
ture on both a small and commercial
scale. Although one of the major ob—
jectives of the development of irri-
gated agriculture will be to increase
food production, the objective of in-
creasing incomes and employment op-
portunities for the poorer sections of
the rural population will remain a
priority. To tackle the medium term
implications of unpredictable rainfall

(2) Preferential Trade Area.

in terms of food availability, a Nation-
al Food Strategy (NFS) has been intro-
duced. The NFS is not a new pro-
gramme but a planning process aimed
at existing activities and initiatives to
ensure adequate food supplies at a na-
tional and household level. The areas
to be examined under the NFS will be
the links between food availability and
planning for drought relief pro-
grammes, agricultural programmes
and nutrition and job creation in rural
areas and food consumption. As a part
of the National Food Strategy, a data
base will be established to support
planning for food security, effective
support and incentives policies for in-
creasing both small-scale and com-
mercial producers will be designed
and implemented, nutrition-oriented
programmes will be strengthened and
planning on a medium-term basis for
drought preparedness will take place.

b Among other things, the cordon \

fence system in the livestock industry
has created problems for wildlife mi—
gration in Botswana and caused some
anxieties amongst environmentalists.
What is the Government 's view on the
issue? -

—- We have had a ‘poor’ press in
recent years in regard to the veterinary
cordon fences and the priority we give
wildlife vis-a-vis livestock. I believe
much of the criticism has been mis-
leading and ill-informed. The follow-
ing are the main points:

(a) Botswana is extremely prone to
droughts. During severe droughts
wildlife and livestock suffer. Histori-
cally, before the cordon fences were
established, there were massive wild-
life losses during droughts. We have to
learn that droughts will recur in the
future and manage our livestock and
wildlife resources, and our pastures,
better in the future.

(b) There is room for both wildlife
and cattle in Botswana, but preferably
not in the same areas. Seventeen per-
cent of the country has been desig-
nated as National Parks and Game
Reserves and an additional 15% is
free of cattle. Thus wildlife has vir-
tually exclusive use of over 30% of the
country.

(c) The livestock industry is very
important both nationally and indi-
vidually. Fifty thousand producers
now earn iPlOO million from lives-
tock sales. We do not have alternative

F

i
l
l

 




 

- “- .rmAVp-cn-A o_~o W—

”...mmm- ... .

 

 

w-T—r

“4,..- Jaw-vau »_ v. __

'“ ' "r'V' ”W" ""’ “" ”1‘ PW' ' W W'“ *ru'W'vw-‘m ww’ww “wvmw- ~0-v-y-v.~~m-qp.q... ,3 v I .-... ».. as"... - ”—3. Y'W‘P—"v'r'v'r-“~vv v ' ‘- , .
"4“ ' a-A - i . ' . . - . _
» - - var v...‘ . , . . «Vt-- 1.1"- wt m ... vex... -.....,.-e .. n . . -« ,. .A, 7 ”a!" . r .4 ,_ . ‘ _. H, . . .‘_ -1. ,0 ,. h ., .(~., . .1. 5...». _ J. “Hus. p. ,

nan—‘—
0

sources of income for these produc-
ers.

(d) The cordon fences are essential
for disease control and marketing of
beef. Many independent observers do
not regard the fences as amongst the
more serious problems for wildlife.
Deaths on the fences are primarily as a
result of overstocking, denuded pas-
tures and exhausted water resources. If
wildlife, livestock and pastures were
better managed and if overstocking of
both wildlife and livestock could be

preypn tprl

v11 ~W,

the (prions grgulri nnf a

lynxvv 1‘1 IIV$ \l “

problem. -

(e) Better management of livestock
will be achieved through education
and legal enforcement. Through the
use of such programmes as Tribal
Grazing Lands Policy (T GLP), wildlife
will be protected in reserves and ‘Cat-
tle Free Zones’ and Government will
assist with water points etc. for wild-
life.

L» On what areas are you laying
emphasis in industry and why?

-- During the past four years, we
have more than doubled the number
of operating manufacturing establish-
ments employing 10 or more people.
In addition, my Government has giv-
en particular assistance to the estab-
lishment of a large number of small
citizemowned industrial manufactur-
ing enterprises in both the rural and
urban areas. It is the Government’s
intention to do all that is possible to
maintain this very impressive mo-
mentum of grth in our industrial
sector. At present we are having dis-
cussions With several large intema-
tional organizations for the establish-
ment of such larger industrial activi-
ties as a foundry, vehicle assembly
plants, a major can-making plant and
large tanneries.

In recent years the Ministry of
Commerce and Industry has partici-
pated in 8 or 9 international fairs each
year and the Minister of Commerce
and Industry has led trade and invest-
ment promoticr missions to 11 coun-
tries during the past 3 years. EEC has
given assistance to these promotional
activities through the Trade Promo-
tion project. I am pleased to say that
the participation in international fairs
has undoubtedly generated greater
trade for Botswana. Furthermore, each
of the trade and investment promo—
tion mission has succeeded in attract-

ing additional investment to our coun-
try and contributed to greater—and
mutually beneﬁcial-trade diversity.
My Government will "shortly be an-
nouncing a range of commercial and
small industrial projects that will, in
future, be restricted for citizen invest-
ment only. However, we remain very
much committed to attracting foreign
investment for medium- and large-
scale ventures and hope that an in-
creasing amount of this will be on a
joint-venture basis, with both foreign

and Batswana participation.

 

 

Dr Gaositwe Chiepe
Minister of External Affairs

 

 

 

1» How do you see the European
Community in the development of Bot-
swana?

-— Beef production remains the
only industry that is truly indigenous
to this country. Cattle ownership may
not be as widely distributed as we
would wish, but “the industry remains
the greatest source of livelihood for
the majority of the people in this
country. Consequently, the continued
access of Botswana beef is of great na-
tional importance to us. We would be
very disappointed if the access provi-
sions of Lomé II were to be reduced in
effect or in any way degraded.

ACP/EEC relations are important to
us in another way — as one of the
most important possible sources of ca—
pital for investment. The amount of
direct financial assistance under the
EDF may not be much, looked at
against the duration of the Conven-
tion. However, the other instruments
of the Convention, properly used and
given sufﬁcient good-will on both
sides, should be able to generate addi-
tional resource ﬂows into ACP coun-
tries. I have in mind, particularly, an
enhanced role for the EIB in ACP

“ma-ﬂ.

countries, a ﬂexible approach to the
rules of origin and a deliberate effort
on the part of the EDF to promote
ACP trade, to mention just a few.

Brussels bureaucratic controls

> Lome' III has just been signed
and naturally this is the moment to
reﬂect on ACP/EEC relations. Have
you any comments?

-- Whilst Botswana, like other ACP
countries, obviously greatly appre-
ciates the aid given under the Lomé I
and Lorne II agreements, it can be
clearly seen from the discussion pre-
ceeding Lomé III that all is not per-
fect.

The BBC sometimes complains that
ACP countries have not utilized their
aid from the Community in the time
orginally envisaged. One of the rea-
sons. I feel, is the rather bureaucratic
controls over specific expenditure.
Brussels ofﬁcials do not necessarily
know how project funds should be
best utilized. The needs may be very
different from those of Denmark or
Ireland or France and should not be
judged on these different criteria.
Agricultural projects may have to be
much more experimental in nature;
trade promotion projects may have to
be directed particularly to investment
attraction; educational projects may
have to have geographical aspects,
which would not be appropriate to
Community countries.

Therefore, when ACP countries give
detailed attention to the design of in-
dividual projects for Community as-
sistance, they are well aware of the
priorities of their national plans. We,
in Botswana, certainly make sure that
requests for particular kinds of assis-
tance are always closely aligned to Na-
tional Plan priorities. Therefore, when
such projects have been accepted by
representatives of the Ten, there
should not be unilateral action by
Brussels ofﬁcials to prevent the imple-
mentation as envisaged-or to delay re-.
quested flexibility when circumstances
suddenly change. In general, the man
or woman on the spot is closer to the
problems and therefore better able to
know the needs. ACP Governments
and representatives must be treated
with the respect that their practical
knowledge of Third World needs de-

mands. o' .
Intervrew by AD.

The Courier no.,9o — March-April 1985 1 5

 




t

 

 

7‘3 T‘.\-;~’;;‘-.-‘..@ELT‘W "T" AC P-BOTSVVAN A Emzms“: .

 

 

Botswana Meat Commission:
18 years of service

Titus Madisa, the Executive Chair-
man of the Botswana Meat Commis-
sion (BMC) is obviously a contented
man. At his headquarters in Lobatse,
80 km from Gaborone, from where he
presides over the growth in both size
and importance of the enterprise, he
told The Courier last November of
how anxious he was to meet his target
kill for 1984, report to the Cabinet
before the year ran out, and to secure
from the latter approval to establish a

erything went as he wished: BMC’s
kill recovered last year, from the 1983
fall of 233 900 to 239 000. The Cabi-
net, on the other hand, gave the green
light in February for a new abattoir to
be built in Francistown. This, when
completed in 1990, will bring the total
number of industrial abattoirs in Bot-
swana to three. The existing two are in
Lobatse and Mann.

Asked whether the BMC, like most
parastatal concerns in Botswana, was
making any proﬁt, Mr Madisa side-
stepped the question and talked in-
stead of the all-round satisfaction the
enterprise has given to everyone con-
cerned: cattle owners, the workers, the
government, the consumers of the
enormousﬂamgunt of meat the BMC,
predticEs, etc. The Botswana Meat

i ,— . n . o .
\ fommrssro‘n IS, in fact, a statutory

non-profit organization which had the
reputation of being effectively ﬁnan-
cially managed and which, invariably,
wound up at the end of each year, with
surplus cash notwithstanding the loss-
making Maun abattoir until last year,
that is. The BMC, in 1984, made an
overall loss of 2 million Pula and has

.»4«

r 'ﬁiﬂi' XIV '1 3.”; iii-t 3 '2}.
~ *--~ ~s-. .
1W .

t 1::- .r;‘ u
" I It
i.

come under severe criticism in many
quarters.

A highly sophisticated organization
whose style of production and market-
ing (it has a holding company in the
United Kingdom) is increasingly being
emulated by countries in the devel—
oped world, the BMC is the pride of
Botswana, having been deliberately set
up by the authorities, more or less as a
declaration of faith in the cattle indus-

. . . i try.
new abattorr 1n Franc1stown. Well, ev- ,

Its abattoir at Lobatse is the largest
single integrated operation. in _ Africa
and is ranked among the continent’s
most advanced, complete with canne-
ry, tannery, research, storage and by_-_
product processing. Here, as in Maun,
draconian health and hygiene regula-
tions are closely monitored and con-.
trolled to ensure that they comply
with the requirements for the entry of
Botswana’s chilled and frozen boneless
meat and corned beef into the EEC
market. That market has been broad-
ened in recent years from its over-
whelmingly UK outlet to include Ger-
many, Greece, France, Holland and
Belgium. Other sales outlets include
South Africa, Reunion and Hong
Kong Hides are sold to Italy and of-
fals to Zaire.

The kill capacity of Maun has not
yet been fully utilized. The decision to
build another abattoir in Francistown
may be for logistic reasons: the need
to ensure an even geographical distri-
bution of abattoirs in the country,
Francistown being in the north-east
and a long way from Lobatse in the
south and Mann in the north-west. It

7". b“ . . ’.<"‘- 1.0“. “;
.- 9’: s.".-.?-'».v:.< , ~ - .

' the abattoir with carcasses on a converm; hair

would, nevertheless, increase the kill
capacity of BMC when it goes into
operation in about 1990 and put the
company in good stead for expansion
of operations if its present promotion-
al campaign pays off. '

Mr Madisa understandably has
great pride in BMC and his country,
Botswana, he points out, has a cattle
population of only 2.7 million com-
pared with those of neighbouring
countries which range from 8 m to
12 m each. Yet it has the largest and
best organized beef industry in Africa.
He does not rule out the possibility of

stiff competition in the future. When '

it comes, he says, Botswana will ad-
just.

Meanwhile, there are reasons for the
BMC to congratulate itself or be con«
gratulated for the past 18 years which
clearly have been very successful in
terms of paying high prices to cattle
owners. There has never been a better
time to invest in Cattle in Botswana.
0 A.O. .

The wildlife
debate

With less than 20% of its territory
under forest cover, range degradation
is naturally a major environmental
problem for Botswana, much more so
for a country that is heavily dependent
on livestock and is blessed with one of
Africa’s richest and most spectacular
wildlife. The expansion of the cattle
population in recent years has com-
pounded that problem, although latest
reports suggest there has been a dim-
inution of the number of cattle as a
result of drought. -

The government has always recog-
nized the need to ensure a balance be-
tween livestock and wildlife and has
taken a series of measures in this di—
rection, e.g. borehole drilling for both
livestock and wildlife, the Tribal
Grazing Lands Policy and the setting
up of a monitoring committee.
Whether these measures are adequate
is a matter of opinion, but there is no

 

,/
V”

denying the fact that environmental—
ists, inside and outside Botswana, are .
gravely concerned, especially smce the .

erection, a couple of years ago, of a
cordon fence on the northern bounda-
ry of the Central Kalahari Game Re-

CAMPBELL

 




g

ill
.10
he
on
n-

as
'3’.

n-
08
to
1d

‘0
J“.

of

a
U

d-

he
n-
ch
in

161'
1a.

1
t

 

w-a «yum-.urmwnym a...“ .,

 

 

CAMPBELL

 

 

In" ung wwv'

1‘ -— -4~~ e~.1.'«.<-‘—~..‘- A‘s-“A."

" j “1.13.32“... -.....:..:L'.........; .11.“...3 ACP- BOTS‘VANA"

”O‘A’m‘

WW'wnf'“! '1'! "3‘1’1’4‘9rj s a mvfra ”1; m ~ -“ﬂ' 39-... symuw~ -~ w m

/
0’ .4 ~L ‘

(«3' . ' 1.4:“ an! ’:
"zsir'é'rwgg

‘ o o.”
to {w
’3‘! ~» «73
:- ’hq"~

Cattle concentration in the Kalahari

()vergrozing occurs within a short time

serve which is right in the middle of
the country. The fence is aimed at pre-
Venting the Spread of foot and mouth
disease to areas from which cattle des-
tined for the European Community
market are slaughtered. The impor—
tance of cattle to Botswana need not
be stressed again. (See interview with
President Masire on this issue). As Mr
Louis Nchindo, director of Debswana
and chairman of the Kalahari Conser-
vation Society puts it: “ Diamond rev-

enues accrue to Government for dis- .1

bursement, cattle revenues accrue di-
rectly to the people”.

This is the reality of Botswana today l

which, unfortunately, does not cut
much ice with environmentalists who
see the cordon fence as cutting across
the migratory routes of wildlife, pre-
venting them from reaching natural
waterpoints and resulting, they say, in
the deaths of thousands of animals.
This was, in fact, the subject of a ques-
tion put to Botswana 1n the ACP- EEC
Consultative Assembly last year to

1 which the authorities replied by point-
' ing out that cordon fences were ﬁrst

put up in the country as far back as
1954. This, they said, reﬂected the 1m-
portance of cattle to Botswana 5 econ-o
omy and people. If more fences were
put up recently it wamﬁﬁ'withﬂ

. the EEC:s stringent veterinary regula-
* tions on ACP beef exports to Commu-

mity markets. The Cordon fences were
a long-term measure to protect the
livestock industry irrespective of the
destination of Botswana’s beef ex-
ports.

Botswana, meanwhile is preparing a
memorandum on wildlife to be sub-
mitted to the European Parliament (in
view of the latter’s concern about the
issue) and to the press. Furthermore, a
project to be submitted to the EDF
committee for ﬁnancing in a couple of
months on conservation, wildlife and
tourism, under Lomé II, is being pre-

I

pared jointly by the EEC delegation in
Gaborone and the Botswana authori-
ties.

Should Botswana nevertheless dis-
courage the expansion of the cattle in-
dustry? Cattle, it should be noted,
have traditionally been subsidized in
Botswana, even during colonial times.
The high prices the BMC now pays. in
an effort to spread the gains of the
beef trade with the EEC as widely as
possible, coupled with incentives like
Nirtual free veterinary services, subsid-
ized feeds and low taxes, mean that in

‘ Botswana today the best short- term

investment for an individual appears
Lto be in cattle. It rs not uncommon for
icivil servants to spend their salaries on

“acquiring cattle instead of depositing
‘ them in the bank or even securing

loans: they breed cattle and are reluc-

“rt". '

“ML-ii. -MLM

W
1‘

m- rW—r . .. .... W.
,u—v: 'v‘ , N 1" 1*.._ . . ,—

’V
’~ ‘ ~ “. .4 ‘ ' A -
pawﬂgh“. nab 3..-..mmmn1..z w ML — 1 Q ,‘

ment ofﬁcial, those carrying out the
studies for the Kalahari Conservation
Society with the aim of showing how
tourism and game are contributing to
the coffers of the government and peo-
ple will have to overcome a lot of
reluctance. Cattle is the second most
important item in Botswana’s econ-
omy and shall remain ahead of tou-
rism for some time.

As for the controversial fence, Mr
Nchindo says that the Kalahari Con-
servation Society is trying to persua e

tn' e gOVerrirnent to 011671 1t"1'n' ’t‘iin‘ 63‘5""

" like this When thEWErE‘n'o outbreaks 7,

,, ~-ot“‘f(Tot and mouth‘disease so that

Mm go through“? epoints out,
however, that the reasons why wildlife
in the Central Kalahari Game Reserve
migrate in the ﬁrst place needs to the
be established; for example, there is a
need to establish whether the reserve
is a complete habitat like the game
reserves in the west, north and south
of the country where there are no mi-
grations. He believes that the provi-
sion of waterpoints in the Central Kal-
ahari Reserve could be the ﬁrst step
towards ﬁnding out whether animals
in the area seasonally move north be-
cause of water.

He cites the example of the “buffalo
fence” in the Okavango which sur-
rounds the south of the delta, the son-

‘ I.
.II
b n ,

1}? up, .zﬂfm} ..,;
1“ J‘“£“ 4&1

Zebras (the national animal of Botswana)

Once common in many areas they are n
Afar/mi He

tant to sell notwithstanding sufﬁcient
capacity at the BMC slaughterhouses.

At the rate at which overgrazing is

' taking place in Botswana, some envi-

ronmentalists estimate, the entire
country could be affected in 10 to 20
years and serious desertiﬁcation would
occur. .

In a democracy, it is hard to see
what can be done other than the intro-
duction of disincentives; low prices
and heavy taxes perhaps. But these
could deal a death-blow to the whole
industry. That is why, says a govern-

ow restricted to northern Botswana. on the

'ildlife Reserve

them side given over to cattle the oth-
er to game. “ If you ﬂy along the fence,
he says, you will be surprised. One
side is green and the other side is al- .

most a desert” which proves that
fences are not necessarily bad thrngs.

It is reassuring, however, to note
that the authorities are disposed to
ﬁnding solutions to this problem
which is very important to the future
of Botswana. The debate that is now
going on must therefore be 'seen as

being in the interest of Botswana. 0
AD.

The Courier no. 90 - March-April 1985 27

 




 

 

 

 

ov~~~ .--

J»~.~¢-. .A . “Hum..- .-.,.,.* 1”,...

‘ 'Ri’Chard MOORSOM —— Walvis Bay:
Namibia’s port — International De-
fence and Aid Fund for Southern Afri-

. ca -— Canon Collins House, 64 Essex
Road, London N1 8LR -— £ 1.50 -- 70
pages —- 1984

South Africa has been illegally 0c-
cupying Namibia since 1966, in de-
fiance of international law. Walvis
Bay, on the western coast of Namibia.
. has the only deepwater port in the
.; country; without it, Namibia is vir-
9 tually landlocked. In 1977, the South
; African government attempted unila-
' terally to incorporate Walvis Bay into

‘its own territory by reinforcing direct
rule over it.

This annexation was overwhelming-
ly condemned by governments, the
United Nations and SWAPO, the li-
beration movement of Namibia. On 7
September 1977, the United Nations
Council for Namibia —- the legal gov-
ernment of the territory —- objected
“in the strongest terms to this unila-
1 teral attempt by South Africa to des-
‘ troy the territorial unity and integrity
of Namibia. Walvis Bay has always
been an integral part of Namibia and
South Africa has no right to change its
status or to appropriate it as part of its
own territory”.

This book reviews the legal back-
ground and reactions to the de facto
annexation of Walvis Bay. It outlines
its integration into the Namibian na—
tional economy, records the resistance
of its black workers to their oppressive
working and living conditions, des-
cribes the policies and effects of South
African rule since 1977, assesses the
economic and military signiﬁcance of
Walvis Bay to an independent Nami-
bia, and, in particular, the conse-
quences of continued South African
occupation, and points to South Afri-
ca’s probable motives in trying to hold
on to the Bay.

000

W. EDWARDSON and CW. MAC-
CORMAC —- Improving Small-Scale
. Food Industries in Developing Coun-
, tries International Development
Research Centre (IRDC), PO. Box
8500, Ottawa, Canada KIG 3H9 —
167 pages -— 1984 -

In June 1983 a workshop was held
in Vancouver dealing with research
approaches and methodology for pro-

r'hL-e‘L—‘J. .7

vat-'1- --_ r- 1, .— '“W 'N.‘ w' W. .-l ~. u my .- u- -.

.aJI.

yd"... w «yo-1“»

.- "a. a , e - 1 '
\ '- \ k
. .
w. . .=s«t.- ”m... -‘ ..A i ' 1" I. 1‘ L ,

h- -.. .s «.3». ; .

1‘.“ ..

.. N.-- .....-....-..A . -m..-..—...

 

cess improvements in small-scale food
industry businesses. The objectives of
the workshop were to review experi-
ences in the application and evolution
of a small-enterprise-oriented process
improvement methodology, to exam—
ine needs for research and develop-
ment and to assist those participating
at the workshop to improve condi-
tions in small food factories in their
respective countries.

This publication is a summary re-
port of the proceedings of the work-
shop and as such constitutes a useful
contribution to general knowledge of
the status and problems of traditionai
food processing in developing coun-
tries.

OOO

Pierre AISNER & Christine PLUSS --
La Ruée vers Ie soleil -— Le tourisme a
destination du Tiers Monde (Rush to
the Sun —— The Third World Tourist
Trade) — L’Harmattan. 7 rue de
l’Ecole Polytechnique, 75005 Paris —
281 pages —— 1983

Every year, millions of holidaymak-
ers from the industrialized societies set
off to discover the Third World.

Why do they go? Are they anxious
to see something different, are they in-
terested in the exotic or do they want
to meet “other” people? Or are all
these just an expression of a more pro-
found malaise that is taking a hold in
our own society? And these “other"
pe0ple — are they not sometimes
hosts in spite of themselves? Are not
the people of the Third World forced
to accept all the means of develop-
ment that the rich societies dangle be-
fore their eyes?

7"
-

 

THE COURIER

AFRICA — CARIBBEAN — PACIFIC
-— EUROPEAN COMMUNITY
PUBLISHER

Dieter Frisch

Commission
of the EurOpean Communities

200. rue de la Loi
lO49-BRUSSELS
(Belgium)

Tel. 235 II II (switchboard)
Telex COMEURBRU 21877

 

 

 

...——.._.-.. .

w -..',. . .s.’ . ._..-.

This book. a pioneer in the tield. is
a committed sunk that attempts to
answer all these questions and it does
so with the aid til statistics and a his-
tortcal and smm-econonnc study that
shows where the tourist trade tits into
international relations.

(H. t}

llcnrt ROWLUZ o‘oRrEtitL
(‘ooperer autrement: I'enganement des
organisations non-gumernementales
aujourd'hui (.-\ dichrettt way of coo-
perating — Today's N00 commit-
ments) l‘llarmattan. 7. rue de
l'Ecole I’olytcchntque. 75005 Paris —-
301 pages — FFoS -- l984

This book. in “htt‘h ll associations
were insult-ed. is a joint stand. They
all claim to espouse the way of think-
ing (set out in part one) that is emerg-
ing today In part two. the various
associations illustrate their approaches
to International solidarity by dcscril»
mg a project in which they are in—
yolycd.

The idea behind this book was for
these associations to help the nation-
als. technical assistants and volunteers
working for development in the Third
World and the NGO militants. teach-
ers. journalists and so on involved in
providing information and publicity in
the North in their works and to in-
form a much wider public about the
non-governmental movement. It as-
pires. furthermorc. to provide a frame-
work for a politico-cconomic analysis 3
of their stand and of the prospects for '
the practical and immediate action it .
is suggesting.

ooo

EDITOR
Fern-and 'I’lturmes
DEPLTTY EDITOR
Lucien Pagni

ASSISTANT EDITORS
Roger Dc Backer
Amadou Traore
Augustine Oyowe
Myfanwy van de Velde
Thomas Glaser

SECRETARIAT:
Colette Grelet (235 47 84)
Mary Beatty (235 75 87)
CIRCULATION
Margriet van der Werf (235 76 39)

______________________—————-———--—dl

 

 

 

 

 

Back cover: Cocoa remains the key sector of the Ghanaian economy, even if the country’s share of world production has declined

continuously over t

he last years (photo FAO)

 




VEJA (Brazilian weekly newsmagazine) 29 May 1985

(translation)
DANGER AT SEA

The Destiny of the Whales in the Hands of the Navy

After much international pressure, Brazil accepted and signed
a resolution of the International Whaling Commission in 1983,
suspending whaling for five years starting next January lst. Even so,
the whales that swim on the Brazilian coast are still not saved. One
of the clauses of the resolution allows the capture of whales for
research and scientific purposes, according to the criteria and
authorization of the government of the interested country. At the end
of last year, the North Brazil Fishing Company (the only business of
its kind in the country) got authorization from the Superintency for
the Development of Fishing (Sudepe) to take no less than 470 whales
yearly, under the pretext of "research." In return, the company would
furnish raw materials and whale experts to the Northeastern Center for
Fish Research and Extension (Cepene), which, located on Tamandare
beach in Pernambuco, is presently dedicated to research on shrimp,
seaweed, mussels, and lobsters, but not on whales.

The proposal is already in the Interministerial Commission on
Sea Resources, part of the Ministry of the Navy, and it may be
approved by the Sarney government. But on taking office as the new
president of Sudepe last week, Petronildo Santa Cruz de Oliveira gave
notice, "I will ask for the return of this case, to make a detailed
examination." If the original decision is confirmed, Brazil would be
perpetrating a swindle on the other 39 members of the International
Whaling Commission (IWC).

In the first place, the North Brazil Fishing Company, a
company controlled by Japanese capital, has no research capacity.
(Japan is one of the signatories to the international agreement.) The
allegation that the company would furnish whales and experts to the
research center in Pernambuco is also inconsistent, since this center
already has sufficient experts for the little research it has done
with whales. "The percentage of this research in our work as a whole
is insignificant," guarantees fishery technician Geovanio Oliveira,
director of the institution.

Swindle

‘The only studies on the mammal done at the center have to do
with sexual maturation and the determination of the age of the minke
species, endangered by predatory whaling. Work in this area is
already consolidated in a report sent to the IWC last year.

Therefore, there would be no more need for so many whales for
"research" -— certainly not for 470 of them. A half dozen would be
sufficient to continue the work. Further, the great importance of the
studies on whales done at the Tamandare center resides in their use
for controls on whaling, to ensure that companies do not take immature
animals or those in the reproductive phase. "But, if there is no
whaling, there is no need for control, and consequenty, the research
can step," explains Oliveira.

"Permitting the continuation of whaling would be a crude
swindle and the other countries are not stupid," says the Special
Secretary for Environment, Paulo Nogueira Neto. He recalls that there
is an American law authorizing U.S. commercial sanctions against
countries thatzcontravene decisions of the IWC. "It would be disaster
for Brazil to suffer sanctions from its largest trading partner."

 




F
Av. NicolAs do Pléroia 742 oi: 703
Edlﬂcio InternaClonal

Teuérono as 4507 - 24.2049
LIMA - Penu

Telex 20333 PU CF’HBDLI

Cable FEBEBA

Lima, 15th. march,

Mark A. Pokras, D.V.M.
Conservation Department
MASSACHUSETTS AUDUBON SOCIETY
Lincoln, Mass.01773

U. S. A.

Dear Dr. Pokras,

For considerable years, the bird traders have kept on exaggerating the
number of birds that exist in the wild places of the world. This is the
same argument that we have with the japanese when they exaggerate the
number of whales so that they can get higher quotas.

This is the old story of the traders but in actual fact, we, who are perma
nently travelling across our coast line, the Andes and the jungle, we
can say that everyday we see less birds flying everywhere. There are many
reasons for this: Pollution destroying their habitat, hunting and taking
away their lagoons where they have been feeding for thousands of years.

I have written an article in Peru's leading paper while the International
Waterfowl Research Bureau met in Paracas. I can only say that in the Paracas
Kational Reserve, where six years ago we estimated a population of 5 million
birds within the island and many thousands of migrating birds from arctic
to antarctic, no doubt some U.S. birds do not reach any longer the end
of their journey. The International Waterfowl Research Bureau has been
able to establish this great problem that, without any doubt, is harming
U.S. birds on their way to the antarctic.

We are looking after those birds at considerable expenses for us and,
as you know, we are a poor country and we do not have societies to protect
birds nor the Government can afford guards in the various areas of our
country where concentration of birds occur. Don't forget that Peru is
nearly three times the size of France. It is impossible to control these
areas. Meanwhile, it is a simple matter for American customs to stop the
mass slaughter that goes on, all promoted by bird traders abroad. We hardly
have bird pet shops. People cannot afford the food; it is a richmen‘s
hobby and richmen in Peru do not go for birds, they rather have horses
or fighting cocks.

The death of birds during capture is a human crime because they catch
these birds in a cruel way. They put up nets and the birds flying into
them are caught. At least 50% hang themselves in the net; of the remainder,
éOZ die during transport.

...2/..

 




 

.ODENA-— PERU Page- 02K-

Mr. M.A.Pokras-Massachusetts Audubon Society
15.03.85

Another way of catching them is by putting in small islands, birds held
by strings, and in the surrounding waters they put oil so that birds come
down and they are trapped in the oil. some are properly washed and put
in boxes and the others, sucked with oil are thrown out to die.

Another way is to enter the nest of macaws, parrots, falcons, etc, and
take the parents out and then put the young in the bag. 50% die while
catching them.

The figures of export are not properly registered because most of the
officials are corrupted and they get bribes to show different number of
birds exported; at least one third of what is actually exported.

In Latin America, it is very easy to get "Official Documents" which are
in fact illegal. ‘

According to import into the United States in 1982, 43% of the birds imported
from my country died in the way. So this shows that for a pet trader to
sell a bird, at least 10 have died, without forgeting broken eggs or birds
too young to take and they are left to die. All this happens because 'of
a luxury trade in the United States and Europe.

The evidence of how traders find arguments which can be proved to be false
is that when it is convenient to them, they say that there is exaggeration
in the number of birds that die during capture and transport, but then
they would say they are saving the specie, since many birds are declining
in the wild, while birds, except for a few cases like the Hawaiian goose,
have been saved through captivity and put back in their natural area in
Hawaii but, they are also having problems with predators; The only way
to save birds is by protecting them in their own habitat. The yellow winged
akeet does not need to be protected so they could be saved from extinction,
etheless they have been taking by the thousands to the United States

par
non
and now they seem to be a problem to agriculture in U.S.A.

If United States legislators ask "Whay should our states pass laws to
regulate wildlife of foreign countries... isn't Vthat up to them?"... I
am most surprised of this argument that american legislators put forward,
because I know that U.S. Congress is always alert and interested to help
our part of the world and avoid Cubas, Nicaraguas and Salvadors. It is
due to extreme poverty that those countries were ripe for communism to
move in. The poverty of my country is such, that people for a few dollars
will go and kill any animal that is forbidden so as to sell the skin to
a foreign collector who wants to have the luxury of putting it over his
polished floor. This does not help our people; this makes them still
more poor and, when we have problems, then U.S. legislators, have to increa
se the budget of AID towards poorer Latin American countries.

It is much easier and helpful towards our people for U.S.A. to control
the illegal export of our wildlife. It is impossible for countries like
ours to control 3,000 kiLometers of coastal area and still larger is the
Amazon that goes from Ecuador, Colombia, Brazil, Bolivia and Chile, areas
of wildness and rivers that is impossible to guard and, the best evidence
is that with all the help we have from the United States, we cannot control
the contraband of drugs. Planes flying in and out through the jungle and

 




'5 , '5' O .-
,PRDDENA- PERU Fag; ’3'.
- Mr. M.A.Pokras-Massachusetts Audubon Society
15.03.85

 

for us to be able to control this, we would need to increase our air force
at least five times and radar all over the Amazon. This would mean millions
of dollars and our argument is why shouldn't the United States, the richest
power in the world be able to control their harbours, ports and the traders.
We have the laws banning exports of birds but as I said before, poverty,
inflation, corruption open the door for illegal export of birds and other
wild animals. Thus, it is for U.S. legislators if they want to avoid more
Cubas, Nicaraguaa and Salvadors in our part of the world to become more
sensible, more realistic of what the problem is all about. We cannot regulate
anything at present, otherwise, we would stop terrorism, mass slaughters
in our andes.. I am often in that area trying to control mass poaching
of vicugna. I am Hon president of some local andean communities, leading
them to help the utilization of the two finest wools in the world, they
have over their land: Vicugna and Alpaca.

You can well imagine how angry I become when I find that poachers have
killed 50 or 100 vicugnas over the land of these poor people and taking
contraband throughout immense frontiers and the wool end up maybe in London,
Hong Kong or Belgium, just to supply a luxury.

If they only would give us a chance to regulate, as we are trying to do
in the areas where vicugna occur, capture and shearing as we are already
doing, then we would be able to help these people by manufacturing the
fabrics in Peru and exporting them under full control.

We are not expecting U.S.A. to pass laws to regulate our wildlife. The

only thing we ask is for United States to be more strict with their own
laws and to understand our problems in the same way they understand the
problem of cocaine. Iay I aks you, shall we pass laws to regulate the
contraband of foreign countries, isn't that up to them?... I will prove
that it is up to all of us. Exports as well as imports of cocaine to be
controlled by both sides and legislations, must be equally taught on both
sides. It is nearly impossible in the enormous extension of the jungle
of Peru, Colombia and Bolivia to control the growth of coca leaves which
has gove on for thousands of years and is part of‘eyeryday's indians support.

Felipe Be1
President

FBB/krs.

P.S.: Due to local post strike,
this was not delivered in
due course.

 




 

Das Tier February 1985

Denmark Grants No Pardon for Animal Torturer

In Denmark cruelty to animals is no "cavalier offence."
A poultry farmer, who had crammed thousands of hens into
narrow cages, was fined about 1,800 German marks. The
breeder appealed. With the result that the fine was
raised to about 27,000 German marks.

 




, '4%4Vh Das Tier February 1985
i 3
Kat”) W

Denmark Grants No Pardon for Animal Torturer

In Denmark cruelty to animals is no "cavalier offence."
A poultry farmer, who had crammed thousands of hens into
narrow cages, was fined about 1.800 German marks. The
breeder appealed. With the result that the fine was
raised to about 27,000 German marks.

 

 




STANFORD OBSER
STANFORD, CAVEﬂ
Stanford University
7 Tl. A YR. 150.090

OCT 1985

“-5
_—

Animal research

'* » vu<
, J

Stanford is currently planning to con-
struct a new multi-million dollar animal
research facility as part of the proposed
Center for Molecular and Genetic Medi-
cine (see stories in this issue). The cost
for the animal facility will be high in dol-
lars, but the spiritual price will be tnuch
higher — for something that is tnost
sacred in man —— his capacity for compas-
sion and kindness -— is lost when his sci-
entific discoveries are acquireél through
the suffering of innocent gngni‘alg"

It is becoming increasingly apparent to
a growing number of people that behind
the locked doors of animal research faci-
lities there exists a dark world of pain and
despair for countless numbers of captive
animals. . . .

There is an inescapable connection
between all things. and when we exploit
and degrade others -— whether those

See MAILBOX, p. 8.
. /\

 




)

éontinued from p. 7.

“others” happen to walk on two feet or
four — we degrade ourselves. Animal
experimentation is a tragic aberration of
enlightened medical science. As Mahat-
ma Gandhi said, “1 am not opposed to
the progress of science as such. On the
contrary, the scientific spirit of the West
commands my admiration and if that
admiration is qualified. it is because the
scientist of the West takes no note of
God’s lower creation. 1 abhor vivisection
with my whole soul. I detest the unpar-
donable slaughter of innocent life in the
name of science and humanity so-called,
and all the scientiﬁc discoveries stained
with innocent blood I count as of no con-
sequence. And I see the day clearly
dawning when the honest scientist of the
West will put limitations upon the pre-
sent method of pursuing know."ledge

Dennis Cutshaw, ’60 .
Morro Bay, Califa

 




PERMIT MODIFICATION Fed. Reg.: 12/24/85, p. 52549
Dr. Robert Schneider For comments: Asst. Admin. for
Dept. of Anesthesia Fisheries, NMFS, 3300 Whitehaven
Mass. General Hospital St, NW, Wash DC.,within 30 days
Boston MA 02114 of previous date

Permit No. 526 (issued 10/11/85)

 

Schneider is requesting to use an electrical method of immobilizing
the seals for tagging purposes using high frequency, low amperage
current.

PERMITS ISSUED

 

Duke Univ. Marine Lab. Fed. Reg.: 12/13/85, p. 50933
Pivers Island Review: Asst. Admin for Fisheries
Beaufort, NC 28516—9721 as above

Permit was issued 12/6/85 to take up to twenty Atlantic bottlenose
dolphins by harassment ﬂrpurposes of scientific research.

 

James Harvey . Reg.: 12/16/85, p. 51281
College of Oceanography ' *‘ ”: as above

Oregon State Univ.

Newport, Or. 97635

Permit was issued 12/9/85 to take harbor s als for captive research
and subsequent tag and release.

 

 




MONITOR MEETING **** FEDERAL REGISTER NOTICES **** December 30, 1985

PERMIT APPLICATIONS
Deborah Glockner - 'Federal Register: 12/10/85, p. 50336
1278 San Luis Road - Comments, within 30 days of previous
Walnut Creek, CA 94596- date, to Asst. Adm. for Fisheries,

‘ NMFS, 3300 Whitehaven St, NW, Wash DC

 

To inadvertently harass during population studies using photographic
techniques, unspecified number of humpback whales , in Hawaii, Alaska
and CA.

 

Cascadia Research Collective (P342A) Fed. Reg.: 12/19/85, p. 51738
‘ 218 1/2 W. Fourth Avenue 7 Comments, within 30 days, to
Water St. Bldg. above address
Olympia, Washington 98501 ‘

To take by harassment throughout waters of Washington over a five—year
period:5000 harbor seals per year; 800 California sea lions per
year; 200 Northern sea lions per year; 200 harbor porpoise per year;
50 Dall'sgporpoise per year; 50 gray whales per year; 10 ,minke
whales ; and 75 killer whales per year. ' A

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Peregrine Fund, Inc Fed. Reg.: 12/24/85, p. 52566

Ithaca, NY Comments, within 30 days, to Fish &

PRT 701572 Wildlife, Rm 611, 1000 No. Glebe Rd.
Arlington, VA 22201

To import up to six Mauritius Kestrels from Government of Mauritius
aviaries, Black River, Mauritius, to establish a separate breeding
colony for enhancement of population and protection of the species.

 

International Animal Exchange Fed. Reg.: as above
Ferndale, MI
PRT 701648'

To purchase in interstate commerce a pair of ocelots and export said
animals to Dianne Best, Anola, Manitoba, Canada, for enhancement of
propagation.

Caldwell Schools, Inc. Fed. Reg.: as above
Tyler, TX
PRT 702154

To purchase in interstate commerce for the L.A. Zoo an ocelot for
enhancement of propagation. '

Los Angeles Zoo Fed. Reg.: ,as above
LA CA *

PRT 702349 - ' -;
,To import up to 20 Golden—headed tamarine from BraZilian Institute of

Forestry Development (IBDF), Brazil, for purposes of enhancement of
propagation.

 

 




 

.._-‘ -._‘. .1044 ~_.‘

 

~ ~ ~ -ﬁ,.;mw;mw._ ‘

THE YE OCEAN

 




4

04‘ o

as

5

\

,5.

1. rE'L’vE'L

;'\O);;\'/:.g'

r

~

;\'/

'19 ._\'L‘

2?. " 314 PE

4 L131; 2134: L13}; L-

‘2'!

r

; ,_\'/. LK'A‘ 'A'A‘ '

 

Year of the Ocean

By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation

The United States has long depended upon the ocean for food, transportation,
national security, and recreation. Today, the ocean has become even more
important to the people of our Nation—as a source of petroleum and minerals
and an avenue for foreign trade. In addition, the ocean is a constant source of
employment for hundreds of thousands of Americans each year.

This Nation is the steward of the resources of the ocean. Americans have long
cherished the freedom of the coastal regions which border our shores. The
ocean is the link between the many countries with which we have shared the
discoveries of modern technology in the development of oceanography.

Our increased use of the ocean requires that we work to protect this resource
effectively and efﬁciently. In order to do so, we must educate Americans
concerning the role of the ocean in our lives and our responsibility to match
increased uses of marine resources with vigilant efforts to preserve the ocean
environment for the benefit of future generations.

In recognition of the importance of expanding public awareness and knowl-
edge of the importance of the ocean and its resources, the Congress, by Senate
joint Resolution 257, has designated July 1, 1984, to Iuly 1, 1985, as the “Year of
the Ocean” and has authorized and requested the President to issue a
proclamation in observance of this event.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, RONALD REAGAN, President of the United States of
America, do hereby proclaim the year July 1, 1984, to July 1, 1985, as the Year
of the Ocean. I call upon the people of the United States to observe such
celebration with appropriate activities.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this thirteenth day of
July, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty-four, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and ninth.

.
;
.8
.
.

7.".

‘(.\'. 7a" ‘7‘" ‘7‘? ‘hi’ ‘i .‘i’ 7.? ‘; d’

a“ Y

1

:roY‘aV'rn"?.\“io\"?o ‘

7&7»

IQY

‘ro\“7o\'"roi‘77o\‘7

’4

av TIOY. fro? 7m" ‘hi' ‘ioi‘ 7.3‘ ‘?o\‘ 7/0\ .

.{7~---

at. ﬁzﬁifrhi‘ 77.\1‘io\

f 17?

ARVC'KTTFA‘Tio ”.7

‘6‘

7.? 76175

mi‘ ‘rsi‘ "roi‘ ‘h‘i‘ ‘hi‘. ‘hi‘ird' 7 V 7“? "mi?

 

 




W

ROLEX

ROLEX WATCH U. S. A., INC. ROLEX BUILDING ' 665 FIFTH AVENUE ‘ NEW YORK, N. Y. 10022—5385 ' TEL. (212) 758— 7700

A Corporate Tribute to The Year of the Ocean

Of all the ocean’s myriad creatures, none have captured the imagination
of the public more than the whales and dolphins. Because they live in the sea,
they suggest mystery and magic, but at the same time, they are strangely familiar
to us. With their large brains, complex social structure, and sophisticated com-
munications systems, they may indeed be closer to humans than anyone previ—
ously imagined. In the past, the cetaceans have been severely threatened by the
predations and excesses of mankind, but we are now entering a new era
of sensitivity and understanding with regard to these fascinating mammals.

Richard Ellis has long been regarded as this country’s premier painter of
marine mammals. But his concern for these creatures transcends art and illus-
tration: He has written three books and over sixty magazine articles about them,
and he has traveled around the world in search of his elusive subject matter.

He has also been active in their conservation, having served for the last ﬁve
years as a member of the United States delegation to the International Whaling
Commission.

Through its “Spirit of Enterprise” program and its many contributions to
ecological awareness, Rolex has long maintained a strong commitment to
the protection and preservation of the planet on which we live. Rolex is proud
to be recognized as one of the corporate identities which shares the goals
of the Year of the Ocean program, as is exemplified through the distribution
of this publication. It is our hope that it will enhance the spirit of enterprise
and environmental sensitivity that is now so much a part of all of our lives.

Very Sincerely,
Rolex Wat S.A., Inc.

2. W.

Roland Puton
President

BOMBAY BRUSSELS BUENOS AIRES CARACAS COLOGNE DUBLIN HONG KONG JOHANNESBURG LONDON MADRID
MEXICO MILAN NEW YORK 9ARIS SAO PAULO SINGAPORE SYDNEY TOKYO TORONTO

 




THE WHALES AND DOLPHINS OF AMERICAN WATERS
—

Because of the enormous length of its two coastlines, the United States is
visited by an unusual abundance of cetaceans. Most of the whales and
dolphins discussed in this book have been recorded from the Atlantic and Paciﬁc
coasts, but there are some, such as the pygmy killer whale and the spotter and
spinner dolphins of the Paciﬁc, that are found further out at sea, usually in the
vicinity of the Hawaiian Islands.

Many of these cetaceans are cosmopolitan in their distribution; that is, they
are found throughout the world’s oceans. The killer whale, for example (which is
technically a dolphin, despite its name), is probably the most widely distributed of
all cetaceans, being found from pole to pole and almost everywhere in between.
Many of the other species, such as the blue whale, the ﬁn whale, the minke whale
and the bottlenose dolphin, are found all around the world, but some of the
species are restricted to more limited habitats. The Paciﬁc whitesided dolphin
is found only in the waters of the North Paciﬁc, while its close relatives, the
Atlantic whitesided dolphin and the whitebeak dolphin, are found only in the
North Atlantic. As one mightiexpect, the California gray whale is a Paciﬁc
species, "making its annual migration from the icy waters of the Bering Sea to the
warm, salty lagoons of Baja California, and passing close to the California
coastline almost all the way. (Readers will look in vain for the beluga, the narwhal
and the bowhead, since these Arctic species are found mostly in Canadian
waters, and only rarely venture into American coastal waters).

ma—Wmmmmnﬁ arr:- =‘érE-i' -—-:——— ~r<:~: ' 4- ~— , a- ~ » ._ 4
‘ ‘ " ﬂak, ,

V.— c:« .x-ta—

Some of these whales and dolphins are common, and some are exceedingly
rare. The two “beaked whales” included here (The goosebeak whale and the North
Atlantic bottlenose whale), are hardly ever seen at sea, and most of the evidence
for their existence has come from stranded specimens.

Dedicated whale-watchers can see most of the American whales and
dolphins, provided they are willing to spend the necessary time at sea. (Of course,
some of them can be seen without going to sea at all; bottlenose dolphins and
killer whales are the popular stars of “dolphin shows” at most oceanariums, and
can therefore be observed in the comfort of an aquarium). The most popular of
the “watched” whales is the humpback, which can be seen in the waters of New
England, Alaska, and Hawaii. The humpback is also the only whale with its own
phonograph record; “Songs of the Humpback Whale,” issued in 1970, is far and
away the best-selling record of any animal’s vocalizations.

\With the passage of the International Whaling Commission’s 1982 morato-
rium on commercial whaling (scheduled to take effect in 1985), we are beginning
to see the end of whale killing for proﬁt. Although there are some nations that have
ﬁled formal objections to the moratorium, it now appears that the long and often
bloody relationship betWeen men and whales has ﬁnally taken a more benign turn.

. - 11’s 1984
Text and Illustrations Copynght © Richard E 1

 




 

BLUE WHALE

Balaenoptera musculus

“é?“ n .1
iggaaa

ln ma
3%?”
a
maﬁﬁék
Err-«Wing
am .
as me“.

u .

32%;”
‘ '32:
$8

.

at
£94
“‘51
26:2

‘l‘

a
in
‘31:“ '-'
5%:

nigh"
was"?
an

I‘M.

~ 5

1%:1.
at?
éé‘a

”é:
a. a
5%,“?

”E” r! '
‘1‘: ‘1 “in? La". ,1;
, 5

um:

all 5%

3%

The blue whale is generally considered to be the largest and feeds almost exclusively on small shrimp—like crustaceans
heaviest animal that has ever lived. As is the case with most known as euphausiids, and may require as many as 40
baleen whales, females grow larger than males; they have been million per day. Although not as rare as many people think
measured at over 100 feet in length, and can weigh more (there may be as many as 10,000 left in the world), blue
than 150 tons. Blue whales are about 24 feet long at birth, whales are fully protected throughout the world’s oceans.
and they weigh 2 or 3 tons. After weaning, the blue whale

 

FIN WHALE

Balaenoptera physalus

The second largest of the great whales, the ﬁn whale reaches are unknown, but they may have something to do with the
a maximum length of about 80 feet, and may weigh 80 tons. animal’s feeding habits. The ﬁnner is an opportunistic

It is probably the fastest of the great whales, and has been feeder, eating small ﬁshes as well as krill (small shrimp-
called the “greyhound of the seas.” The ﬁn whale is the only like creatures). Fin whales used to be hunted 1n the
consistently asymmetrically colore‘d mammal in the world: Antarctic, but their numbers were so depleted that they are
all ﬁn whales are white on the right side of the lower jaw and now protected throughout most of their range.

black on the left. The reasons for this unusual asymmetry

 

 




 

MINKE WHALE

Balaenoptera acutorostrata

At a maximum length of 30 feet, the minke is the smallest of
the rorquals (“grooved whales”). There are northern and
southern minkes; the Northern Hemisphere type is charac-
terized by a broad white stripe on the ﬂipper, a feature some-
times lacking in the Southern Hemisphere form. Along with
the larger rorquals—the blue, ﬁn, and sei whales—southern

minkes come to the Antarctic to feed in the summer. Only
when the larger species became too scarce to hunt
economically did the Whalers go after the minke. Now minkes
are the only baleen whales hunted commercially in the
Antarctic by Soviet and Japanese whalers.

 

RIGHT WHALE

Balaena glacialis

Because it produced plentiful oil and bone, was a slow swim-
mer and easy to kill, and ﬂoated when dead, this animal
became known as the “right” whale to hunt. Right whales
are thickset, heavy animals with no dorsal ﬁn. They have
been measured at up to 60 feet, and they may weigh as many
tons. They have extremely long baleen plates, and feed by
“skimming” through shoals of small crustaceans. The whales

are born with the “callosities” on their heads and do not
acquire them as they mature. In each whale the pattern of
these callosities varies, making possible the identiﬁcation of
individual whales. The largest breeding populatiOIl Of these
rare whales is found off the Patagonian coast of southern
Argentina, but they are protected throughout the world.

 

HUMPBACK WHALE

M egaptera novaeangliae

Although it is easily recognized by its long ﬂippers and lumpy
dorsal ﬁn, the humpback is rare throughout the world, and
few people are in a position to see one. These whales were once
numerous, but they are slow swimmers and were, therefore,
the ﬁrst species taken whenever Whalers moved into a new area.
It is estimated that there are no more than 5,000 humpbacks

. . . “ . , 93, ‘ S haVe
left in the world. This 18 the smglng Whale ’ Its slilﬂiw Why

been the subject of several records, but we do nOt. haunting
humpbacks sing, or even how they make these eerie, their
sounds. Humpbacks have been extensively Studled ldies
warm water breeding areas, particularly the West In ’
Bermuda, and Hawaii.

 




GRAY WHALE

Eschrichtius robustus

2mm.
mu.
.,.,,,

'4“» I,
1, . u t

With its mottled grayish appearance and “knuckles” where a to be nearly extinct because of heavy whaling pressure, the
dorsal ﬁn would otherwise be, the gray whale is easily recog- population of gray whales has now stabilized at about 15,000
nizable. The world’s only remaining population of these animals, and is fully protected in Canadian, American and
whales is located off the coast of western North America, where Mexican waters. Soviet Whalers, however, take over 100 per
they make a 13,000 mile round trip from Alaska to Baja Cali- year off Siberia.

fornia—the longest migration of any mammal. Once thought

SPERM WHALE

Physeter macrocephalus

Although this is probably the most familiar of all the great
whales (Moby Dick was a sperm), it is still one of the least-
known of all large animals on Earth. The sperm whale is the
only great whale with a single nostril at the end of its nose;
all the others have paired nostrils (called “blowholes”) on top
of their heads. In the nose there is a huge reservoir of clear oil,
and we still don’t know what it is used for. Nor do we know

what the animal does with a 20-pound brain—the largest brain
of any animal that has ever lived. Sperm whales are the deep-
diving champions of the mammalian world: they can hold their
breath for over an hour and descend to depths of 3,500 feet or
more. Although it was heavily hunted in the 18th, 19th, and

20th centuries, the sperm whale is now protected throughout
most of its world—wide range.

—\

PYGMY SPERM
WHALE

Kogia breviceps

. . 5x“:u
’Eirﬂnu n
u x:

Ex.

r

a . .9.

”a,” .

“45: may.“ we: ‘ ;. - A . .,

, . . saga ”kiwi maﬁwﬁa 5‘?

J _ ,r r: “a,“ sigma Egmaww. ., man-5:5“: *' . nag: ¥§§2:‘ae.?.¥§‘e‘§"
" = n" WW .a mating» gm.

.3 p541“ . . r -, a r , . ‘1 a a a! n a any a! ‘1'.“

mi in ‘ . l- R

‘n “a »x . -

_ u an; .2

Egﬁggéwgw.
.égil‘xéuaéam

$1:
a" ..

. x
i ﬁnd.

H x. A.
ﬂéngullu‘,
.m.

“fa.
at an

,. .

’Sx‘é'S.
man
#971:

n r»
n a
uZnE:

are?

35;
an!
a n,

. 5

Two small whales believed to be closely related to the giant
sperm whale are the pygmy sperm whale and the dwarf sperm
whale. These are the only other cetaceans with a single, off-
center blowhole, and a single nasal passage. The pygmy sperm

whale is the larger of these two rare little whales, reaching

a known length of 13 feet. It has a short, stubby' dorsal ﬁn,
while its smaller relative, the dwarf sperm whale, has a higher,
curved ﬁn that has been described as more “dolphinlike.”

 




,. .
5.

n‘En.
t: I
:5. _

.5555 "“3555 '5.
555.535 I‘ ”5”
.5 ‘55 .

m1
. an K5
dim...

$55,;

1‘

.5
"55'9-
dé‘éni. e
51%;.
m
..
u;
.55..

55,1555 ,

.5555 5
‘L'E'Zéiégai
5K :1
ﬁg
g???“

.325
.25“

n
‘3

.5
:53?”
32:3?
u—uS
“3‘3???"
Eavilza‘éeélw‘iﬁ
.“ giggly? n 1
A5! ==~ - 5n
5.5.5::
“9:?“

‘5‘.
5.5:

. n
. may

nEnﬂg
5:555 WW
5 HIPW$§ 55,55

.555, 5..

555““
55.

nu'nx‘.
.

n . a-
... “a“

5.555.. . PI.

5:5
5 .5
@5555
_ mm.
.n‘ﬁhf
.5
WE”
5552.5
5
5.5:»
Eu...“
53%;?

SEE?”
.uﬂnuuﬂzﬁ
gum
in
"5;.
an
:n
5.

u

5&5.» "'

NORTH ATLANTIC
BOTTLENOSE WHALE

H yperoodon ampullalus 5' -_ . , ‘ 5 5’: I
a PT - :5 .5 " as: 52"” 2"“. 5."?
n h run

r
n
“a

“a .3“
‘i‘;
5‘ “5“?”
'1: 1.7:"
5:55 .
$515553;
3‘5???

5
5.555
33%:

55.55555.
5.5
Vn‘ﬁ
55:55.5;
3.5.3.:
-E”:Té~
.5
.555
,. .5
5’ (55‘ 753;;
5 5*- “.1515.
5-55.55 z." '

Dzn
: ’15.

55.555
.5...

u

ﬁﬁ‘ﬁi‘a‘ “35‘”
‘ mg;-
" a

«£5»:

'."
"~I5:.‘.'.'.'..... . 55,... 59%;.
,5 | . .. ””515 .5 Willi 1’5"" .
- .4. , .,5..n...;'5i\ﬁ.5..é 5 .l’i‘t. 5.55%. ‘5
W? .54 aye. .. 5555555555?“ .5
5 .. 553$ WNW,
.
.

M 5.
555;!“

5% 55 g
“I ‘‘l

. ..
. V . 5:. .‘ «5. .. a.
5 ' “~.'.‘.I.'.'.u'.'.';..‘-.. 5 “5 ..
"5"" 5' " .1 .4 ..................W.. .
. 5... m
n x! I!

'5‘“ " 55555“

.
:-

W.

"' 9’5 . .

II“ lJtii-EIL‘“l-l5i"i5'l. 4 . .5 5 55.55.3555. _
. ,. .I 55.. ..
. .. .. 55535.5.

. 15.55"“.yli5l’" 55%; ".355 7 will? )7.“

.1555. w . 55.5 “1.5

”555555.555 9,5554,

.5 5 .gﬁ'v. ’él‘iu' .l'5i'. _ .‘i' ...l

.I J 4 55 5.5.545... $51.55;. 5 . ' I

5’V5“l524.5355555225‘.54I”I:Il.l"2-:I‘II 55;.» "WI-HIM: I...I.I,:I:lI:I.:I:It5.

The males and females of this species look so different that can reach a length 0f 30 feet. It is believed to be among

for years scientists believed they were different species. Males the deepest-diving of all cetaceans, and has been recorded
are lighter in color—sometimes almost white—and they have to remain submerged for over an hour. In the past the species
an overhanging bulbous forehead, a feature that is lacking in was hunted by SCOIS: Danes, Icelanders and Norwegians,
the females. Found only in the North Atlantic, this whale but it is now considered too scarce to hunt commercially.

5..
5.. .
‘5‘?
.5555
5 5
~25;

E‘s.
.n
‘7;

ca

. I. 555‘ M
a 5:55. '5' 1.. 555535;...
5555535 , 5:3"5555

GOOSEBEAK WHALE ' .555 ' “ III" I ' ' '5 ' " ' “ ‘ I - 5
53" ‘ . ' 5 M ' .5. gag. ' . 5g . , . .. .
V , . 5 .5. V . 5 ‘ i 53-: ‘ "l“..v .5 5.- 2 “if: ' ' 5-5" m iiﬁlé'iﬁiﬂigimm " ' l9 Haif‘W; 1.3!. .5 5." "‘ 5.
~55 I! d!“- nﬂ! . 5 "" ' . , ‘fxl ' . ' l ' "l
. . . . . -~ ‘ 55,55 - . -~ 55.“ 5 I 5555 - I 555 5 5555 555 .3, 5 55,5 5555555
. . . _ i3 ‘5 k . a .I 5 .5 .5 . .1 ‘2’,” «yr-“5.35;... . i'. V . . _. ' ..
thhzus Cd'DlTOSlTIS .55 “3' . . . " 555‘? .. ,5, , “4%;ng j" I 5:355 II a r“ ., 5': 5.”?955 & .. , “fill”... In;
. . ﬂ ' . ' ' V" ‘5 “fl ““55“" ﬂ!“ $5. “1.... ' V 5 “a " 55"" " 53.4}? 55-5555'F555... "5 J5.“ ' ' "WW..." '5'“: i
‘ .5 ' " ‘3“ '5 “o" “‘“P “’5“ “ “1' “ .9 ' 5““ ‘5‘. ”‘55? if "5.55.. 5.55.5.5? .5' $55.... n...“ I
.5 - .55 5 .55 55555.5" 5.. 55555555555555xi§~§555§i§555.55.55" I5" 5:. . . 5'- 5 . z ﬁnghgﬂgm .555 . . $.55 . u 5 5"
'- 55“ 55.615 ., , - . 5.555" . . mum-,5. .555- 55555 ”gala-5' ..“"...."i~ 5 .52‘..55v5xiw.5555...-. .5 , 5'5 ,
‘ ' ' ’ ' ' 5 ”in" '“5 5515‘" 3'55"§’i"§é.5" We?" 4' ' 55 4.. ﬂigemwi” 5355552555. 1 l 53.535 * ‘ ,‘a,
555-55 ,, 55555555555“ 4 4 55 .5 n55.-
5555“? ,, - ‘ 55555555555555 ~ " ..'I5I'I“.55 .5 .I .
2...... a 5... 5m 5.5.. ﬂagging; " ' 5555' ‘ "ﬁisgﬁaw *" $245 ”if 5’
‘ 5,535 555.535.5355, . laggiﬁggggksa $5 “5.. -. . , , .559. . - , . . “555%.“ 5 . “553.5153 " 3"."
Aiifﬂngi'iﬂ‘ﬁ. 5%..” - - an"! i? . . _ ' - 5.5-5 ' ' ' . - " * ~' ‘” “ . . aim-55557.5. 4 ..
' l 55"?" “‘7' - ~5I55..- I - ' ‘ ' ‘5‘. “ 5‘.“
I un , 7. 4 ‘ ~ ~ .' 5. ‘
. M ﬁéguu‘ * _. 5.. N, ‘j ._ . 4 ”W":
W I Maw,
L ‘ . ia‘l‘

Inunu

"1 x
- W555” 55 ..
.155 if 55"” 597%.. Ii. .

“u‘l
..
"5%.

55..

5, ,
55355
5 35“

555. 4

" “53"“?! .5
. 55.59355“ “£3?
5 “a:

5:55 .
ﬁé‘ﬁ’é‘a
.55“

.
55

gr. '
z '5" I
555555.555:
“552.535;

5‘5

strand relatively frequently. The coloration varies from dark

described as “common,” the goosebeak whale (also known as purplish brown to fawn, and the head and back are often
lighter colored or even white. Like all beaked whales, the

Although none of the beaked whales can be accurately
Cuvier’s beaked whale) is probably the most frequently
observed. It is'found in all the oceans of the world except the

high Arctic and Antarctic, and it has been reported to

goosebeak is usually covered with scars and scratches, but the
origin of these marks is not clearly understood.

ROUGH-TOOTHED
DOLPHIN

Steno bredanensis

”’“thnm

 

dots.” (The scars are believed to be caused by a species of .
small shark which takes circular bites from the living dolphIDI)
The rough-toothed dolphin reaches a length of 8 feet, and
while it is found throughout the world’s tropical and temper-

ate waters, it is nowhere common.

This dolphin gets its common name from the striations on its
teeth, which are too small to be seen with the naked eye. Steno
is a dark purplish-brown in color and is usually found

with pinkish circular scars on its body, making it possible to
describe the animal as “a purple doplhin with pink polka-

 




 

 

g«it?

a:
i“

«9%?

BOTTLENOSE
DOLPHIN

Tzfrsiops truncatus

.- a,
“éﬁgﬁa?
a? ..

‘ ‘ 'r..'.'
v
..

By far the most familiar of all the dolphins, this is the one
that comes to mind when the word “dolphin” is mentioned.
The bottlenose is the star of television and porpoise shows,
and because of its adaptability to captivity and its cooperative
nature, it has been the subject of every conceivable kind of
test. Echolocation in dolphins was ﬁrst observed in bottle-
noses in Florida in the early 1950’s, and it was subsequently

SPOTTER DOLPHIN

Stenella attenuata

X “.‘A H
.1. H M,

One of the species of dolphins involved in the “tuna-porpoise”
controversy, the spotter is found throughout the tropical
Paciﬁc, often in huge schools. For reasons that are still
poorly understood, the dolphins and the tuna can be trapped
together in the nets, and prior to 1972, hundreds of thousands
of dolphins were drowned. As of 1982, the quota is down

. SPINNER DOLPHIN

Stenella longiroszris

This slender, graceful little dolphin is named for its habit of
leaping from the water and spinning on its long axis, some-
times as many as six times before splashing down. The actual
“reason” for this behavior is unknown—males, females and
juveniles all do it—but it is thought to serve some sort of a
communications function. Spinners are characterized by a

x
l M.
3.5““ l
.m

4:

learned that all toothed whales have this ability. In the wild
the bottlenose is usually found within 500 miles of shore,

and it is widely distributed throughout the world’s oceans
with the exception of polar waters. Several subspecies are
recognized, but most scientists believe that there is one world-
wide species, with geographical variations.

to some 20,000 dolphins per year. The spotter is one of the
fastest of all the dolphins, having been timed at speeds in
excess of 20 mph over a measured course. There are now
thought to be at least ﬁve sub-speciﬁc variations of spotters,
discovered only when scientists were able to examine and com-
pare specimens caught in the tuna nets over the last 15 years.

long, narrow snout, and a perky, vertical dorsal ﬁn that hooks
so far forward in some forms that it looks as if it’s on back-
wards. A tropical species, spinners are also caught in the tuna
nets, but not in such large numbers as the spotters. Mixed
schools of spinners and spotters are sometimes encountered,
and they are often trapped tOgether in the nets.

 




 

ATLANTIC SPOTTED

DOLPHIN
S tenella plagiodon

Generally similar in shape and coloration to the Paciﬁc spotter,
this species is unspotted when it is young (often leading to
confusion with the bottlenose), but as it matures it develops
the heavy pattern of spots that are responsible for its common
name. This is therefore one of the few species of cetaceans

in which the color pattern changes from juvenile to adult.

In the waters of the Caribbean, spotters have been known to
approach divers, a most unusual behavior in these usually
timid and wary animals. Except for those occasional encoun-
ters with swimmers, Atlantic spotters are poorly known,
although they have at times been maintained in captivity in
Florida and in England.

 

STRIPED DOLPHIN

Stenella coeruleoalba

 

From its scientiﬁc name—which can be translated as “blue-
white”—one can get an idea of the coloration of this dolphin.
It is a strongly-marked species, with a prominent pattern of
dark blue stripes on a grayish or white ground. It is the
largest member of the genus Stenella, reaching a length of 9
or 10 feet. There is some controversy about the number

valid species, some cetologists preferring to separate those
animals with a double stripe from the ﬂipper to the eye into
a separate species, S tenella Styx. However many species there
are, striped dolphins are found throughout the temperate
and tropical offshore waters of the world.

 

COMMON DOLPHIN

Delphinus delphis

I! an I R: u :1
games
ﬁﬁxﬂﬂﬁiﬁféﬁﬁ
ﬁaﬁi‘i’m " i. "
HE”: 11:1

£52m.
a a
gag ‘1
n 7...
an:

.
agar11
35"“

,1.
an
2*

#51;
tam-a: n = in
am.
up. .

$3.}...
in! ..f
itﬁﬁﬁ

u

x
l‘
a
nu
.u

HE.
Eu?

 

wax
$3.355, :

In the vernacular name of this species can be found much of
the confusion attendant upon the “porpoise-dolphin” problem.
Here is an animal known as the common dolphin (not to be
confused with thedolphin ﬁsh, Coffyphaena 51).) but it is not
the animal that most people think of when they hear the
word “dolphin.” That, of course, is the bottlenose, a huskier,

m... s

a. . x- ..

fa: na‘rﬂru
“gear...
lea

{'55.
rum-9”? we. iiiwigin:
r” ‘ gﬁvﬁﬁﬁéﬁ'ﬁ "
"i317" a: f}; m“

g: n gag

x

n
- u
n

grayish animal with a much shorter snout. Delphinus is
actually brightly colored—for a dolphin—with a tan patch as
the forward element of a very complex pattern of stripes

and patches. This dolphin, which reaches a length of 8 feet
and is renowned for its bow-riding and leaping activities, 18
generally considered too delicate to do well in captiv1ty.

 

 

 




 
   

 

 

 

DOLPHIN

Lagenorhynchus albirostris

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

    

 

/
WHITE-BEAKED

 

One of the six members of the genus Lagenorhynchus (which
means “ﬂask-beak”), the white-beaked dolphin is the largest
of all the lags, reaching a length of 10 feet. This North Atlan-
tic species can sometimes be seen in schools of up to 1,500
animals, but it is usually shy of ships and therefore has not
been extensively observed in the wild. Its range sometimes

overlaps that of the Atlantic white-sided dolphin (L. acutus),
but the two can be differentiated by the taller dorsal

ﬁn and white beak of albirostris. This dolphin can be found
in the waters of Greenland, Norway, and, occasionally, Cape

Cod and the Bay of Biscay.

 

ATLANTIC
; WHITE-SIDED
DOLPHIN

Lagenorhynchus acutus

"M N H'WWWH

“ll?“i ‘l/litll;ud cm ”.«W la,“

n at m ’i H 3355
U a"

, it:

Itvx'wrle:
‘lll‘l‘ti‘tl‘l
.# ' ‘
. .m
,

Li,”

gag “if? 2%; 3:1:
-u _, nu any» > I
“35mm. g,
uses-t
’ . "Egg,
”3- WM:

,
g‘gamgaeaagg W =

“is n

“l:

is

This is one of the few dolphins that exhibits a color other
than black, white, or gray. On the tailstock aft of the dorsal
ﬁn, there is a yellowish patch which is often visible as the ani-
mal jumps, which it does so often that it is known as “jumper”
by Newfoundland ﬁshermen. L. acutus is also charac-

terized by greatly exaggerated “keels” on the dorsal and ventral

u

do:

 

aspects of the caudal peduncle. Like the white-beaked
dolphin, this species is restricted to the North Atlantic, but it
is not found as far north as L. albirostris. Although the ranges
of the two species sometimes overlap, they can be easily
differentiated at sea because of the yellow ﬂash of the white-

sided dolphin.

 

PACIFIC
WHITE-SIDED
DOLPHIN
Lagenorhynchus obliquidens

 

The only lag found in the North Paciﬁc, this species is
easily recognized by its sharply-hooked bi-colored dorsal ﬁn
and its intricate pattern of stripes and blazes. It is often seen
in huge schools and is famous for its leaping ability. Unlike
the North Atlantic species, L. obliquidens does well in

captivity, and there are few oceanariums on the west coast
of the US. or in Japan that do not exhibit these exuberant
little dolphins. They reach a maximum length of 7 feet, and
are found from Baja California north to Alaska, and east to
the waters of Japan, China and Korea.




 

NORTHERN RIGHT

WHALE DOLPHIN
Lissodelphis borealis

 

 

 

u n .5
$2.93..”

p} pr...
.1"in A“ Ming
1! x- .1. :.....‘-’:é;.
.: n a r.
' ‘ u ”a nuvu

_ ”My... mm

This slim, graceful animal gets its common name from the northern right whale dolphin reaches a maximum length of
lack of a dorsal ﬁn—a characteristic it shares with the right 10 feet (although most specimens are smaller), and it is found
whale—and its scientiﬁc name can be translated as “smooth in the North Paciﬁc from southern California to Alaska,
dolphin of the north wind.” It is perhaps the slimmest of all Siberia, and Japan. When pursued, it makes rapid, low-angle
dolphins, and, despite its name, it could not ‘possibly look leaps from the water.

more different from its heavy, ponderous namesake. The

 

3!... .

’ ' ‘ ‘ . Q :1 ' . ‘ , 9’.“ “'l '1". .,.1'""1.'.".':.7.'.';.. 1.1.3.959." 1"719332-9. I -~ ‘ ‘ " {al-Iu’ I‘ '. ' _
. .. . . .. . ... .','..I.I,..I ,.I.I. ,3... I. . .W' I . I I .4.
1:9: 1. ’ .. I I‘II.I. A. . ..I ‘. n”. ,.II.I.I.,,I..... ”.5?" .‘39" I.I.3. 1,... “.‘IA ,3,” .. I.- . '«. I, . ”qu; . I? . , .I . I 3,33% ....,
..‘. sf. ". $19,333" I, ,.I. I ' ‘ﬁ .,.,“ "I7; ,1 . . “1“”"‘“““;""“‘”"‘“‘I.'." . .. ZIL‘ “3.17,. . . 19/99:; I . IIIII .
‘ .. . :9 "=‘- a: . ' ' '-‘ “ ‘.....: .1 f9 ..,'.. ‘1'..." . . 1', .‘W: ."'E I.I"‘M"/.. "19,3...{5II'H' . ' I; ".u

A - » 9" - ‘I ":1". 2% “Mg..." "51'2"!" 23.3" '.. .. g - ’7 . .. 1 .

ram us nseus - . - ~ . , .,.» .I . , . .. 2..., .3 ., . . .,.. .. .. ».
g . ~ . .n v 21' .2 . .---:.~.'s'-....,.-. .,.. . ,, 4...... . ..~ .. . . . .
J I, ...,......,I.,II .. ,3,”qu I.I........n...',I’{.IIf .n. .. 1:1:

“MW"?

.3" "
‘9‘9 '5'

399333.“

.,.,IIM
“:2"? I"? .. 9:. '. ‘ "..Jl....9 :'9./.'.'
. .. ., ..,.........II.I~
. . ...... ...... ,..
. .,. ' .. . . . ...,...I..I, .“‘
.;"I.;.1..'.1.'. - ,II I I, I...
.' v. . ":9: 1.» -,.. .,.? .. ~— . I
u .. IV}. .22 u mg ,‘ﬂ'j.’ . '.
I... .. .I...I ..I.’.‘. n IIII.I.I-.IIIIIIII "1"?“ .” .. "T...’.u,‘.I.’:" ‘ .3331/33331 . , '1,..1
“7 .n. ‘ ;.~,~ u. n .,.... . u .. .11....
"W“ 1.1""."9 ..‘ . " 3’13?!" '."".'i':'.l§..';.'."?.“" . .u :" 7.95.1.33.,§“.“ .= ,1 . I . . I ,
.,.Wnﬂ-ﬁnlm ‘ "u’W‘ .. 3"“ .9. ".1. ’ ' ' " .f 1 , . ' .,. . . 1
€9‘n‘ “.3 .5.” un IlIrI. ..Inun..I.I..a x II II“ w _
,, ”.,....
.,....

. .5“; I I .
,........'I' PI" ‘ , ' “*- .I.' .,.... ~91?"-
" ”‘9‘“ t ",I‘ ' ‘9'" 9 II.1 $.59 " $9599..
‘ ‘ ﬂ." "s 5....
.31.

‘25

1.. .,.“,

n
=é":
an“.

.. .

‘ ﬁfaiﬁg‘ébr .e';
.I._ 7.. .Iag.aan.gq.g.¢..g%
" 9
. . . '55.... #5293539“
arena". . ".1 "1,
9““ ﬁé‘ﬂmﬁiﬁur ‘ 5..“"1‘g .13" 9“ 957999:
' 2729:" ..'.

3:.

MW. 1‘33.
.,

.,.... ~ .39.. 23.99:.

g“; 11“....39'1...“ :5

..
.. .. .... a. ..
“.,.“... gs'ﬁ'éﬂ'éﬁ‘h'ln‘. ..

mam...
. .. n. .. .
3:1,, gags} 1..
r...“
55.,

.,.

“la

in

a
new?
II.

33.9%
41.41"”

a...“
I"

g

u... ..
.. .,. II,.

. .... .... .

. .2“. .5...
.. .,.... .. .. .. .. ..

. .. .. ‘ J 1.. .,....‘lt-‘S' " “l! ‘3." " r.
9‘ a, . ,r. "‘ .’ x I-I’ . . -gu.rL?I§: “Hawk
{' ‘;.‘."n.‘.'.xén'3 a: . ‘ .,..“ 9.3.”. r. 3"‘5’5‘5. .. .,..
ﬂ .'. .“V r. . may: '33,“ . 9.“:

I... ,. 4.. mu. .3 .,.-1.5., .,.~.. 5.1.. .3..qu

.1 e

.1
I. .
.15. ' E .. ‘I' 4119:.“ 5.

as.“
a
l 3-
..
«:5

“3
a

.. .
2......

x

“§%:...w-.i.-n

uImuupI-I...

Easily identiﬁed at sea because of its high dorsal ﬁn and be ak- known as the melon) has a unique vertical crease. Maximum
less proﬁle, Risso’ s dolphin can be found throughout the length is about 13 feet. One of the most famous of all

world’s tropical and temperate waters. They vary in color dolphins was “Pelorus Jack,” a Risso’s dolphin that accompa-
from very light gray to almost black, but all specimens nied steamers in New Zealand waters for about 20 years at
are heavily scarred and scratched. Risso’s dolphins have teeth the turn of the century.

only in the lower jaw, and the “forehead” (more properly

..
swan

 

PYGMY KILLER
WHALE

Feresa attenuata

Although the common name of this species is derived from the wild, however, no such inclinations have been demon-

the shape of the skull and teeth, this little dolphin may in fact strated on the rare occasions when swimmers have encountered
be more ﬁerce and aggressive than its larger namesake. In pygmy killers. The species is nowhere common, but from
captivity the pygmy killer has been known to attack and kill scattered sightings they have been recorded from most of the
other dolphins in its tank, and it is probably the most temperate and tropical waters of the world.

aggressive dolphin towards humans when it is in captivity. In

 

 




   
     
 

 

 

FALSE KILLER
WHALE

Pseudorca crassidens

     

  
  
    
   
 
 
  
   
   
 
 
 
 
  
 
   
       
    
   

 

One of the largest of the dolphins, the false killer can reach a stranding for any cetacean. From other recorded strandings,
U length of 18 feet, and it is easily recognized by its all-black it can be assumed that this species is fairly common, but even
' I coloration, beakless proﬁle, and strangely “humped” pectoral methodical examination of the beached animals has failed to
ﬁns. A tropical and temperate water species, the false killer reveal the “reason” for these strandings. The animal gets its
3‘ is probably best-known for its occasional habit of stranding in name from the similarity of the skull and teeth to those of
Li large numbers. In 1946, an incredible 835 false killers the killer whale.

stranded at Mar del Plata, Argentina, the largest recorded

 

v,

 

LONGFIN PILOT

WHALE
Globicephala me/umu

.i. is, . 5 ‘ —,_;,_ (2.-..” A i: :2.
‘<~ F ”W4 :.~.- .:-....,.vi.....' .- -u'... .

‘\

a f .1- i-...i-_‘,., >‘ a“
w "sea—=2: fir—m?!” mew- - __,..,Lﬁ.ﬁ.._. L ,

    

      

‘i

 

«

Also known as the

 

as contrasted to 16 feet for the females. These animals are

“pothead” from the rounded, bulging melon, .

l:E the longﬁn pilot whale is a temperate to cold water species, almost compulsively gregarious and are always found in

3 i found predominantly in the North Atlantic, but also in the groups, often numbering in the hundreds. They also strand
Southern Ocean, where it may be represented by a subspecies, in numbers, and will remain together even when threatened
known as Globicephala melaena edwardii. Male pilot whales by ﬁshermen.

are larger than females, and can reach a length of 20 feet,

 

SHORTFIN PILOT
WHALE

Globicephala macrorhynchus

 

Although this species is sometimes known as the Paciﬁc pilot in the conﬁguration. of the skull, but this is not discernable
whale, it is also found in the Atlantic, and off the coast of in liVing animals. Pilot whales feed primarily on squid, and
North America the ranges of the two pilot whale species over— they are believed to be prodigious divers, able to. descend to
lap. The obvious difference between the two is the relative over 2000 feet in pursuit of their .prey. This speCies has been
length of the pectoral ﬁn; in the longﬁn it may be as much successfully exhibited in oceanariums on the west coast,

as 27% of the animal’s total length, while in the shortﬁn and also in Japan.

  

it does not exceed 19%. There is also a signiﬁcant difference




72%|:

.3”

......u

..I...:.l

nungIlIig.xr1““éh‘x‘JX\‘1itté'
n w... .ng:
xfufu ....II
n ..I u an

.nu

.... .m
.; n- :05
$3.325.
W

MW...

4' “ha.

wad...
.

é‘
g

A . .. .. : _ n . I , _ ,,
. . a n .
. .. . :. u , : .. ,. . “... I.. . X u xx a
n _ . . A : . , = : . ~. . :.
' = n J _ _ n I . . .- .x a A .,
.. . . .1 . 1 ~
: u , . n, . u u .. A . u w Inst».
. ~ ~ . : . . . . .. .. 1 :1 n , :
.3 :‘ _ : , '4 . : n ... .. .. '1 .“ . . .. r: :3 .
, . . . . ., . . . ,I . . , :I .. . . n u
. u . _ ‘ . . . - = ....i? . ‘4. .. , - ... ‘ ' 1"".
.' . ... . , _ ., A :4 _ , . .2" I. -. : “ - . _ . a 4.....4, .. .. '4'
, ... a ' . _ . r - " " ‘. - .~-. '.. ﬂ”
, . : . , n u . . u . yr, 4 : r =
. ... . - . a n v
.. , = V. ,,.4 :: '..? a
. ., ,4 n . .. :
.. 3. u 3,. :
.-
r.

Orcinus orca

..
..n... 171;
...,.... an

.?~.' — 51..
5 5... :
n:.....:..:..n.
a.zn=.n~3=:a

nnaqh

....z .:.'.
.... .3.
.:...‘.a

uEu. :L:

‘31:
n,:.:...;€\=,
.5_,-:.’-:....1;..

III“.'.‘.‘.'E....“‘I n .‘. a
a...“ :1

. ...,n
.‘.‘... uy

nun

an... :-

5n:

....g.
:xI

:55"

"n
..‘1 .‘.'.r l“.
.... ....
n..x‘.‘:‘ r.

I..
......w:.:.:I.....:u
.
. . ..n...
“.5qu :I.r..:.§nen:.....‘.I
’.

“..., g,“ ‘.‘.”

5.

=u
alum:
:u

.

I-. .x .

... i: an. I. ..2u .‘.‘}.

ha, y ..xu u r ... =I..§.I~gyxuﬂ .IIIé‘n- .‘
.j‘ x} I, , . E uvg u In ...

“5:5:
5..
:5...
...u
nix:

z .unnnx

«5:.

43.3.1559
"..’.‘é‘éaér‘fb .. ...;
..Iuyx..uu..;...‘.’.z.‘.u£ 5'" all-X
.‘x’n un-l.:I!IXI|~lp_‘lA .x : ..I.-.I 9n... _.... . ..x.-u._
‘ ‘ “ . . ~I.I.a.II. "...yu‘rI....I.
. .3. II.

“F"
......rﬁana‘

5.7.51? ErIuI
.Igua
5.9.;

u

..... a. .1

an :rx
“5.35“:an

“n

.’ . .

...-.I. .. ’.““"“

gIn .5". 5:.“ “2.551;.
‘2...:..'.f.’.‘. 3%.; ....
...u ........u .‘I.

.‘m.:..’ Inunx.‘i‘..:tuu‘.‘.... ..Ii‘

“"5 ...I..:I.I.I-I.,x.,...,r.,‘..x.,I5I.I

’.

:a5a

..z...

..'x’.‘.‘.'=‘.‘.‘.‘."‘.:.. ' ... n‘ . . ’ 3' — .“.. . >3 - Eu: 9'.
.. £5535. a. . : '.'. “.1 u . u .. .,- u
6“": ’2'.

Iggy: ..
.... “...... a, .4,.. "L34, “guy... : . ..
.“. n

n:
;.
6...;
5:
I32"
A“.

n ....... was»... ...:.‘n.=.......
I..?u I‘l‘ln‘xIlflIxuu are“? “9......r “.I.-1..1?..I..1..'Ixm.....r.u :..«..IJ
"m. ,,.. .nx. ‘.‘.‘ I'I..Id»...u.....z‘. ...a :
n InI? .“ “.'z' ,.u...I.I.I_.I:I
In "‘1‘

3.5494944" ,,..
I..:.—.,..,..,
Il.““‘.".‘.‘x‘é.'.‘x‘:'.3»‘x‘ “'
.. gym:

“‘ 4
manhm... ..zI. ..r.

:3
rt:
1:!
can:

. “.'.'.“. .3.
a“ ‘E‘I'....r.....,‘.‘. .'.-mu...
I,I ,,5 .'4 .',4,;,;;,4,..,. ,..,,.:...............
”...,...3... ,. "'4'.‘ .... .. II,:..n.I.I.. “2'2.
“I‘m... .'.‘44~ .. . ..v y .
SIM,“ , . . ..'.: .... 't'.

n,I ". .... . ‘..;"U .‘ “22%,..4: ..n “E n. ..g. ,

‘.s" ,gﬂvméu .. “. ,lE?#é‘-‘x"‘r‘“‘-’.‘“ III4

’.. '.'.4'.

"1:5...
' :.

‘3‘:=::§F
.
_ n
. my.
in...

:1:

5:";

«5:555
.‘.‘?“
L
:55

... ..-.,. . .
unﬁn‘i‘.‘ .... .'éi.r.'.‘.!.’.‘n“

:3:
:éa5.

III. I
-ur n I. r ..nI ..IxI ...Ea‘II
. . . Eu 5.. 5......‘3.
. .. ..Iu ~ _ _ ...Inu n‘ "3.1. ..I...5...
... ‘.‘ an 5.. . - . m «mm-1.! .'.... .- uni"? . I: 1 .
‘..: ., .... . .....I— _I....n rf‘a‘g'.‘§‘..r.é:..‘. ." ”I: 13:?” 5.2:. .n
n

:_..
'..

:95!
'Ikﬂnifn
u...

. 1...? ...: ....
«rm»... .' ,.:.,..
...... ....Izur. ,.' . z

“‘.., n5.”
"n

::.

.mp1 an

..‘.”

I".
...;n. ‘n. L
angw'u u‘E.'.‘.:.7.§ ... r... ...... '..‘
. A. . n a“ r“ .. I-
“"2..a'.’..€aua‘~jx.5.ié’d "
"""”R‘.‘“l' ...; "l....x..n
- . .‘.;‘nnnw-n

Eaﬁ-‘é'g‘é‘ I:
Ennmgng:
magma 4
“ =
2 u
...:uSSim.
(any?! 4 -
“I .1
~ﬂ‘v‘1nBuTr:-
“Mm?“ .'.
n: ﬁgméﬁ

.
.. x
......

"4444...;

. .
manning
auznﬁnam

5:»...
a
:

=

u:.
“3:9“... _
u .x. .
uéném
.“"‘-"‘”‘§.

...-.4:

.. 5.:
re,
“2'3
.:
-=_ a
:5.::
u

: :
2: as". 4‘“
EEK. ma a
ﬁn! A‘
,

u,..
w:
"E ..

:nzaz 5“

nu.

.. . ‘.‘. ..
.x r.'I I: uéFH..:u5 :
....l‘r‘ .u.............,.n..?.‘.'u '..n
.I“.‘:""“.“.'.’I’x‘l".‘."I‘Sfl" .‘.‘.

...me .I.I...I. "9‘ ....

HP un :u“
{1’4 u "‘9, “4"

“.I....“ ”‘.. '.‘.

z: a
15:5:
1. én:
.. "1-3::
Mann:
‘rxré:
.55...
:1?
15:52.:—

:;....a ~15:

n
:42er n n
2

5

n

:555
....zm

-.-=. ,
. ,5?
“n
ma:
.-.::.:a~:
(alwayﬁi
nah:
m:
unga- —

Ems}.
nun“:
I-Euﬁn:
.3.“
m:-
,,.‘A‘
c...
"a.
...

in

.Fnzﬁaé
2,:-

V: ...

.. £52:

5...... ;
{we
'..;
the:

n
5:9...
3“:

n

:
.
an“?

.«a

n
‘E‘Eé‘::;
..E

a

54313:
:22;
: Er.

n .. :..n—n.,..:=.=.,.,

a 5

« 55%“
can

. at:
”£52.;
:‘in
f. ‘ r:
w...
. 12:55:": 2:35.}?
W.
,:
"3.34:-
m:
'3 5::
”:Eé’i‘
$9533

.5.“
sin .5" a

:: .
. ...,....
”2%....mawgpﬁ:
.7 ...:
12..
:
w?
5 :
4.32:“
a

“a
.1
...—an...

31';
5:9:
”2.3.7::

11272:.)
a
m...

a
a
n
:r

....

5..
:z:
5.
an
:é‘g‘aan

_.
:
r1— - all:
:w:.....§!.=
:Leﬁi
:

:
“z;
:

:n:..=. :
:..:
n:
5
2'3:
...

.II...

was
.I..-.
:5. ..
...,.,
«:5

‘.’.:

... Jul-E
amﬂalyxuingn

1:an

.'. I 4".4‘4“"" . ,.

n“ 3.4 1.9.1.7... ' ' .... .". '.
“(\le .1."I‘“V" )I’ .I. .I I ... .I. n .... n .‘.‘ . .
...,.-..'.: Iy.§'.‘;'al4.'.¥f.'i"4.... .'.'my'l ‘ .‘.‘" 4:,'.4y.'.4.‘-.'.'“'4"‘4."".',"'l.‘.'.'."4.3'""5"4'5'" ' ‘3 ‘ v“ .3
.'.' ”Wary. ,,. My. '..éaéa'y .' ....II II .. 4,443. ....I. . '4 ,. ...... ..r.'.'..'.‘.‘.‘.‘.‘.".'.‘.g.l-
. .......".'.c..'.4.'.,'.‘.'."."'..4,'...,..‘ .23"; I..... ..'.. '.'.ng... ..I.W 4'. ”'24.. I .4223.“ , .".‘14."".4".'.y;;“.'5 ., ...
. . rI umuu .II III (.mp1. .. .. n. I. .. . . M." ‘ “ .I
. .V ....4. .. 3'..." ., ,.III ’41... 4uw44..,4...'.4. ..:-.'.'..4.'.4..I'§. :.‘..'..... .. 4.,4.:....4..4,I.I.,..,.I.'. ". {'....'§.I"."£". v.'.4.7.4,4,“.i'.:..’.I‘I"I4I .'.' .

“m. "'1'”. ..I “.‘.'.L‘JI‘."5‘.'. 44v.4'.v..44.'.'.-47"3'4"I.4"44"”.“4'r4t. 1‘34"". ...,."..IuIn. ,.,,.,..,..,...,,,,...

“.“....” ...n :..........n, {.‘.'. .2)... ”‘I ".‘I «I.. .11...“ n \PTI‘?‘ um ‘.‘I". I...!....1’I,, ' III'.",,."I.I...’.'.." '..‘hlhﬁﬁun "’.‘.“I . ...x :IAW' '.I'.".I‘“.‘ “(up
.. .. ...,.... ......AW ,,. . ........... . .4... ”’A‘.‘ ‘.'. '. .... ...... .. {3‘1 ....hm.I.
, ,,.. W, . ,. "'.'44' .. .4..' “.'.' ..'...." MI. . , ...,.... .. . I .v'.
,. . "“""“"""‘".. ...... .I....I... ,.I...II...,.I.,.'... ...... .... .:. .In'I"'.4"'4"I""‘.4 ".'.' ,""'7""4'.‘4",".'. . ‘. . 'I‘"""‘..‘"""" . ." .'...g... . .I.!
,. ,,, ...,.... '31: .I., 4.42 ...... 7;. . .. 14." ...... I .... . ., .
""3’4.:',' 3' “:“’1“.i’ﬂu'.‘i‘.‘v‘il’l""xl§ 3.5.4” '.n'.'.‘.",'.‘."..3'.3'.‘..','.'.?.‘.'.'.' .. ,.I. 31..""1 .'.'“? '.'"4". ......n'.” ."r" .u," .. .‘.'}; H.233. .... ”..'..” I... . . 5' ,l'ﬁ.‘ ‘.4
. - """lr‘i‘ . ..I. .3 z..'. .. .' ."g.‘.‘.' .'.“?I":."‘g"..y.i."' :3?! .’.“. .. I ...I, ’1“ IIIIIIIIIII ."i‘i‘l'i' 5.;' "ml“. ,.,:.v..,.,..; I, . . '..; i ..' 4‘. ... . 4 we ., l. ﬂy“;
. . "n - .‘Ir " :2“.':,“.'.'.,.€',‘,',...‘,‘. "lu‘rm n ..'.. ' ‘I‘u ' ”all." .'.‘...‘.'.‘....’ .‘n. . ,..’ . . ' I . I .I’I’ .'." ' , U gnl‘n‘n
.:.,....... .L , . . ... , . . ,. ... ,,..z...',n.',...,“ : ".'....3..,.II..'......A..I.........‘,‘.'.".. ...I.I,;'..n ""'.""""“"“!'.. mm...“ .....'.. ...“" '5?” ...l, (III...'.4:."I.,4,.,,I,.,,4,,.,4,.,yu My. "-24" ,,..n , .'.' . ...,.... n35";
..........,,.,. . .. _ v . , ., .. .:.I...I.I.,.I.I.,.. ...,. '3." "J‘Y' ..,,,.. '.‘. .I....I...I... ......é'n Wham"... .....:.. ..., ,'I...,....II.I .I..I,.I '."”""" .,I.II..I. .I."""'}.‘.‘.'.'.‘..I ...n .I. .'. ...,. (...-1 ... ..,,
. . . ...,....: . , ...,.... ............:.. ...,.. ...,.... '4'4. '..“' ... ......l .'.';.'.'.' .n. "I'm..." ...... ...... ..'....“ ."v 7:: .... ...,. I '5
J, . - . w ......r..........'..;.'. "“‘“""“““"“"6" ..n .. ...,....n....'...'1..'.n.'. "‘"V‘Y'm‘m... ...-..'.wmﬁ ...,.: ...,.I..I,I .. .'.' ......III........II,,

.. .. . ... uI‘uunnx.IIm.uI...I .I n ... I. .‘I‘ .. '.‘I‘lf' .I.)...y..,.n..I..u..I ...,. n..I.I.I.I..II.I..n .... .... ...,.. ...,. .'.”..
11:27:71 ..‘..In ... um: mu 1 I 5;”), ....I....n..I.,,. .... u... '.. I.. IIIW‘ .I...I{. “M .... ..y.. I‘ .I‘..“I.‘n. . ..‘hu .'.'.K...'. I.. ..
I..]. IIIqunuuu {.‘. ..‘.rII‘InII uK/I‘II‘ ".“ ..... .. ... I. .. ......‘l... u. I..:u ...n ‘.‘l‘u. .. "ﬂy... .... \.IIIV..II

“"".'."‘"""‘4' .3. “..'. name... 31'.“ .I. .. ." ." II ..'y.“...l".....,. .'.I'. ."."1‘. u 4,1' I
“ ‘ " " "' .I‘u'Z.‘.'I‘.‘.‘x‘I.‘J“ '.y.‘ .. ... .‘.‘. .... .
l 1,94,. 45.12....- 4e4I-4. - 4.: ...“Il‘w...3'...y

::=.
a ... g
25:13;
:0:
hams;
:::::-..:
_ an...
: 3....
.

:n'sng.
”:5:
5.5.5,.

44345:“:
55:. ,.v
.:
”maﬁa."
35$ 35:. .. ... n
:.
m
.. .. ..n
:5.
Kill
,5,
:u.

‘..‘.....n

‘3’"
33 ”=2"

3»

a :5. J.
:nznzcun “"

3'53:
:3; ,,..
:p. n
“.55.:
.5. 2293
A
main

=2.
‘5‘.
3'5.
5..

'.‘. 2253'.
E
"13%?“
...: :.
“ 3 s 3‘5
"as. a:
3.5:.
Marian:
; =:
Ti «Ea:
. :
.55.

£5“ _
miég
2M
aha:
‘.‘P’gﬁ
5.: .
53.3“?“
.‘I»:ﬁfxah
“.‘.'é‘.‘
«......
n‘i‘z
... ...
ﬁriun
“9325:

44:33:
'45::
3534:9554:
as:
as“:
5,5,5 ..

:.

..
gun

an.

3..“
E.
.r.
..

a...”

:
4.:
é?

:W‘V‘a"
a
E
.5“

n ..
awn“.
E.
.3,

.7

5‘":
n

x:
555“

‘.‘.
an:
an
a

5&2};
..
5..
13%;:
5.121.511“ =
n l ..

at?“
,a

1 ‘...

I..-...x... .I ..II...‘ I I
- '..3'5"-4'4"‘"4".4.~.4 4I.I.JI.II"yI"J 3'4" I... m:

1:...
6%

""3"" .I5.I.,l....I.I...
9"!

i."

...
. : .5:
3..

“n ‘“ . . . .4 , .. ‘.."
,. .1 4......” ”Y r.,I.,I,,...................u 2......“ “any? ...,....Mu .._ ’43. . . 4A,. .33.“. ,.s ..,,,..,, n

" r ' ' .'z',.44,4.4,'.'- u.. n .’4‘.‘I"I‘I."I' “.'4.7.'.'.'.'.5'.".‘.‘.,4:.'".'.'4 , .. “my", 5.4.3.".“."" .'.'.. ,,v‘,',.4 '.'....'.. .". '4'.“- . ,. M4,, f-Iy I. ....n.“........I.. .. “.'.‘." I..... . .. .. .. .

"“ ‘ 41.4.5.1 ....v...4.'.'..4,'...,.’..,....,...','.2,3'.'.4,4.'A" "In....'.4.’.4.3'.‘.4:....'.‘.‘..l',L'li'3.'.'.'.a';.l..lg.‘.".;"n'.'.'..'.4. "'...‘l .‘. "l‘4'ki‘é‘l‘I‘ 2““ "."I‘i' “ll "'4.“ ‘ ““813 .4r
'.'.'3‘4'..'-v"'“""""""4.4"""'4"4"14""'*'"\‘4"'4'.“" ""47"‘4"~'4""'..""."4‘"" .."" ..' 3"»; ‘.’"HI'"".‘.J‘1'.’..‘..’".'."."."'l'

The most widely distributed of all cetaceans, the killer whale sometimes reaches a height of 6 feet. Females and juveniles

is found throughout all of the oceans of the world, from have a much smaller, more curved dorsal. Killer whales are

the poles to the tropics in both hemispheres. Males can among the oceans’ apex predators, feeding on everything

reach a length of 30 feet, females only 26, making them by far from ﬁsh and squid to seals, sea lions, dolphins, and even the
great whales. They are fast, powerful and intelligent,

the largest of the dolphins. They are easily distinguished at
sea by the high, triangular dorsal ﬁn of the males, which but they are surprisingly docile and cooperative in captivity

:u
1:
at

:45 ...,.
. l4 K ‘ ‘v‘lnm (mu
' . ... .. n...r...1.~.".l‘."..‘.’.‘.4...‘.".'.34,‘.‘.'.".?'.'....nu

,.'....9..,..,.........,..:..... ....4 4...... "...,.... ... .. ...,. ,.

HARBOR PORPOISE

Phocoena phocoena

III»... .33: ,. ' .. .
. . . ‘ . , -""- 1'A\“.\'IIII'I$.I . . ,
.- -, . mm M2... 4..
" ‘ “‘,"“4I'4‘I" ‘ ' " ' ‘"‘€"44..'i',“ may . ‘ "M"...
4' §:::',4.':‘4?7"1.'4‘4
..

 

W .9344”

_. “M

.

The name “porpoise” is derived from the Latin porcus pisces, commonly encountered in river mouths, and has even been
which can be translated as “pigﬁsh,” and even now among found upstream in various European rivers including the
the local names for this animal are “pufﬁng pig” and “herrin Seine, Thames, and the Danube. This is among the smallest
hog.” Phocoena pronounced fo—seen-a) is the commonest of the oceanic porpoises, rarely reaching a length of 5 feet,
cetacean in European waters, and is also found in the and mature animals usually weigh less than 130 pounds.
inshore waters of the North Paciﬁc. The harbor porpoise is

DALL PORPOISE

hocoenoides dalli

”real‘SLw: #iVjiA: ...

r2:

..‘..

as separate species, but now they are all included as one. The
dashes through the water towards vessels under way, and then Dall porpoise has the characteristic spade-shaped teeth of the
' Phocoenidae, but it also has “gum teeth” which project above

One of the fastest of the small cetaceans, the D311 porpoise
zooms away again, throwing up a characteristic “rooster-tall”
of spray as it goes. It is found only in the North Paciﬁc, from

California up through Alaska and Siberia, and south to Japan.
There are several color variations, which used to be considered

the actual little teeth, and may help the animal grasp its prey,
which consists of small ﬁshes. Thousands of Dall porpoises
are killed every year in the Japanese salmon gillnet ﬁshery.

 

 




a W ‘ i~_hw* wi_—\ﬁ\‘—‘_
RICHARD ELLIS Long regarded as America’s foremost painter of

marine mammals and sharks, Richard Ellis has also
demonstrated considerable skill as a writer. Of his
Book of Whales (1980) Discover magazine wrote,

“ . . . a work comparable to Audubon’s in its ambition
and beauty.” Publisher’s Weekly, discussing his 1982
Dolphins and Porpoises, described it thus:

“Well documented, up-to-date, with magniﬁcent
illustrations, this book is a treasure.”

His original paintings have been exhibited in museums
throughout the country from San Francisco to New
Bedford, and his illustrations have been featured

in Scientiﬁc American, Audubon, National Wildlife,
Smithsonian, Alaska Geographic, Nautical Quarterly,
and Reader’s Digest. He has written articles for such
publications as Geo, Science Digest, Oceans, Animal
Kingdom, Americas, and S cience/80.

In pursuit of his subjects, Richard Ellis has travelled
to Alaska, Hawaii, the Azores, Baja California,
Puget Sound, Patagonia, and Newfoundland. In April
of 1981 he participated in the rescue of the only sperm
whale ever saved from a stranding, and in an apparent
contradiction to this, he shipped aboard a Japanese
coastal whaler in southern Japan less than a month
later. He is an active participant in many conservation
organizations, and is a Trustee of the Rare Animal
Relief Effort (RARE). In addition, he is a member
of the Explorers Club, the New York Academy of
Sciences, the American Society of Mammalogists,
and the Society of Vertebrate Paleontologists. Since
1980, he has served as a member of the United States
delegation to the International Whaling Commission.

 

Atlantic Spotted Dolphin ....................... 8
Atlantic White-sided Dolphin ................. 9
Blue Whale ........................................ 3
Bottlenose Dolphin .............................. 7
Common Dolphin ................................ 8
Dall Porpoise .................................... 12
False Killer Whale .............................. ll
Fin Whale ......................................... 3
Goosebeak Whale ................................ 6
Gray Whale ........................................ S
Harbor Porpose ................... _ ............. 12
Humpback Whale ................................ 4
Killer Whale ..................................... 12
Longfin Pilot Whale ........................... 11
Minke Whale ...................................... 4
North Atlantic BottlenOse Whale ............. 6
Northern Right Whale Dolphin ............. 10
Paciﬁc White-sided Dolphin ................... 9
Pygmy Killer Whale ........................... 10
Pygmy Sperm Whale ............................ 5
Risso’s Dolphin ................................. 10
Right Whale ....................................... 4
Rough-Toothed Dolphin ........................ 6
Shortﬁn Pilot Whale ........................... 11

Spotter Dolphin ..................................
Spinner Dolphin .................................
Striped Dolphin ..................................
Sperm Whale ......................................
White-Beaked Dolphin .........................

7
7
8
5
9

 




 




A3
god/Sal” tzzen Wow

 

Press Alternative aims to re-consider our life styles and value systems to examine the tendencies that lead to
the Single-minded pursuit of profit and efficiency to the exclusion of all else; and the forces that generate

excessive consumption and increase waste.

February 1986

 

 

 

 

Exchange Meeting for 'No More Bhopals'
The 'Bhopal Disaster monitoring group'

has invited Mr.Rajkumar Keswani, a
journalist, from India and organized
exchange meetings with citizen groups
and lectures.

Mr.Keswani said that he noticed the
possiblity of the accident in 1981 when
an MIC factory of Union Carbide Corp.
had a gas leak accident and one person
died. Despite his warning against a
possible accident in articles, letters
to the state governor and an appeal to
the state parliament and court, they did
not pay any attention to it nor take any
measures for it, because they supported
the company.

He asked Japanese people to consider
what they should learn from the accident
and what should they do to avoid such an
accident again. He also said that
citizen movements and chemists must
unite and keep observing similar
chemical factories, and pointed out the
importance of information exchange about
dangerous factories by making a inter-
national network of citizen movements.
(Nihon Syohi Keizai, Jan.27, 1986 /0301)

PRESS ALTERNATIVE

Central-Meguro 102, Mita 2-7-10,
Meguro—ku, Tokyo 153, Japan

Phone: 03-719-4847: Fax 03-792-5395
TLX: J29400 TOKINBTH (ATTzTOK 225)
The Source: BDP240

A Book Tells What kind of Medicine a
Doctors Prescribe

This unique book, entitled 'Know the
Medicine You Recieve from a Doctor' was
written by Mr.Shigeru Kimura, a
pharmacist in Nagoya city.

He wrote the book because he mis-
givings about the actual circumstance
where drug information is provided only
for the professions and most patients
had no knowlege of medicines prescribed
by doctors. The Pharmacist Association
made inquiries 2,000 outpatients at the
National Nagoya Hospital two years ago
asking if they wanted to know the name
of medicine they were taking, and 90% of
them replied 'yes.’

He believed that having good knowlege
of medicine will remove patients'
anxiety and distrust of medicine and
contribute to establish communication
between doctors and patients.

The book has taken the relatively
common 4,000 brands out of 10,000 drugs
used within the National Health
Insurance Scheme, excluding those for
cancer or malignant diseases. The
information the book provides is the
name of the pharmaceutical company, the
medicine, its effects and side effects
and notes for taking it.

The price is ¥1,200 and further infor-
mation is available at the publisher,
Syakai-hoken Hoki Kenkyu-kai: Ginza 7-
17-14, Chuo-ku, Tokyo 104, Tel 03-545-
3611. (Yomiuri, Jan.8, 1986 /0302)

 

 




about

New Monthly Information Magazine

Drug Hazards Published

Fifty established clinical doctors
including Dr.Beppu will publish the
first issue of ‘Information on Proper
Treatment and Drugs' on 15th January
(B4, 8-12 page).

Some 200 new drugs are developed every
year resulting from competition among
pharmaceutical companies, mainly
centering around the big companies.
Nevertheless clinical doctors can only
recieve information such as that on side
effects from the makers and official
bodies. As a result of this, measures
against damage by drugs is always slow
in coming.

They publish the magazine aiming to
remove 'bad drugs' by exchanging infor:
mation before the damage spreads widely.
The office: c/o Yukyu Shobo, 3—6-27,
Kamishakugii, Nerima-ku, Tokyo; Tel 03-
997-9525. (Yomiuri, Jan.6, 1986 /0303)

Cheap Kerosene Sales: Shops Accuse

Chisatoyama Life Cooperative in Suita
city, Osaka, was reported to the Fair
Trade Commission by five local oil shops
(representing Nippon Oil, Idemitsu
Kosan, Maruzen Oil, Kyodo Oil and Showa
Shell Sekiyu) for selling kerosene too
cheaply, so it was learned on Jan.17.

According to the report, the coopera-
tive with 11,000 household members had
bought oil wholesale at ¥58/liter and
sold it for ¥55.50 -- which is an
'unfair sale'.

The cooperative argued that they have
considered returning their profits to
members through this cheap kerosene
because they make a profit on their
whole business. They sell 2,600kl of
kerosene a year, however, they have
arranged that members should go to a
nearby collection and delivery place to
receive the oil. (Nihon Keizai, Jan.18,
1986 /0304)

Issue about Gas and Electricity
Companies Giving back Their Profits

Dropped for the Moment
The Minister of Health and Welfare had
a meeting with the Presidents of gas and

 

electricity companies on Jan.14. about
the issue of giving back consumers part
of their huge profits gotten as a result
of high yen rate. ,

In this meeting, they agreed that the
high yen rate might not be continue in
the future, therefore they will watch
exchange rate fluctuarism for a while
and then reconsider this issue.(Nihon
Keizai, Jan.14, 1986 /0305)

Referendum Fever Hits Zushi in
Mayor-Gov't Showdown

Two referendums will be held in Zushi,
Kanagawa Prefecture, over dissolution of
the city assembly and the proposed dis-
missal of Mayor Kiichiro Tomino.

There is a sharp confrontation in
Zushi between the mayor, who is opposed
to the construction of U.S. military
housing at the former Ikego ammunition
dump site to protect the rare nature,
and the city assembly, where the conser-
vatives are in the majority and which is
in favor of construction.

The Zushi Election Supervision Commit-

tee ascertained that the residents'
group, the 'Society of Citizens to
Change the Current Zushi Government
Policies', asking for Tomino's dismissal
had collected the signatures of 17,712
voters which surpassed the necessary
one—third of voters, 14,561, required by

law.

On the other, the 'Society to Protect
Nature and Children' had already col-
lected 16,353 signatures demanding the
dissolution of the city assembly and
submitted a formal request for a
referendum.

The Zushi Election Supervision Commit-
tee has scheduled to hold two referen-
dums to the city assembly and the Mayor
on March 2 and March 23 respectively.

If both/either referendum obtains more
than half ballots, there will be another

election. (compiled from Asahi Evening
News, Jan.13 and other sources, 1986
/0306)

 




The Committee for Ikego Global Referendum in Zushi is asking people in all of
the countries to participate the 'Global Referendum.

 

 

 

GLOBAL REFERENDUM ON THE FUTRURE OF THE FOREST

The Ikego Forest is endangered. You can help to decide its fate. Please reply
soon. We need your votes primarily by March 20, ultimately by June.

- Background -

The Japanese Government is planning to build military housing for United States
forces in Ikego Forest, one of the largst wildlife habitats left in the Tokyo
metropolitan area. For the last forty years, the forest has been sealed off.
During this time, rare plants, animals and birds have flourished in this
sanctuary from the pressures of urbanization.

- Resistance -

For three years, local citizens have contested these plans, in 1984, they forced

the mayor to resign and elected an environmental activist. Now, however, he

faces a recall election. So far, international opposition has also gone

unheeded. But this is a global concern,‘-one that goes beyond city and national
borders. Please consider the issues and make your voice heard. ‘

- Referendum Issues -
*Building housing. *Save the Forest

1) The city will lose national assis- 1) Once the forest is gone, it is gone
tance in construction of cultural, forever. Buildings cannot compensate
rectreation and medical facilities. for the irretrievable loss of our

natural heritage. \

2) The housing project will cover only 2) Construction would be fatal to the

a quarter of the forest, approxima- ecosystem. The only uncontaminated
tely 80 out of 280ha. natural habitat in the area would be
‘ doomed, including species of scienti-

. fic importance.
3) The Government is bound to supply a 3) There are several alternative sites
housing site under the terms of the available. These would help to
US-Japan Security Treaty.. integrate military personnel into

the local community.
4) The mayor has failed to halt the 4) He has been thwarted by the City
project. He should be recalled. Council. He remains committed to
saving the forest.

- Referendum -

_____ The Ikego Forest should be preserved.

_____ Military housing should be built as planned.
_____ Abstain / No opinion

— Optional -
Name; Signature; Address
- Address -
Committee for Ikego Global Referendum: 5-4-24 Hisagi, Zushi-city, Kanagawa-ken,

249 Japan
or Press Alternative: Central Meguro 102, Mita 2-7-10, Meguro-ku, Tokyo 153

 

 

 




---------------------------------------------- Press Alternative Diary --------—*“"'“““‘f"“""'"""“""'

Jan.6 Nr. Gunawan Alif, a board member of UALUI( Indonesian Environmental Forum ), visited Press Alternative on
the way come back home after attel idin ng an environmental meeting in USA Hes Maye in Japan for two weeks
and saw Japanese organic agriculture and small scale farms

Mr. Tanaka attended a study meeting about the Philippines named PAGASA. They are planning an alternative
tour to Philippine and trade with the third world.

Mr. Horiuchi and Mr.Tsuji attended the seminar about European workers co-operatives (at Nondrago in Italy).

Nr. Kataoka returned from his visits to European like-minded organizations, co-operatives and international
organizations. He visited 28 organizations such as FIOH, BEUC, IOCU UUO, UAI and so on for one month.

Mr. Michael Deakin, the executive producer of THE SPACE STATION exhibition which will run concurrently
with EXPO 86 in Canada, visited Press Alternative to.ask to join the World Youth Peace Initiative.

Mr. Kataoka and Mr. Tsubo had a meeting with a publisher about computer networking.

Nr. Horiuchi left Japan to visit the workers collectives in USA.

‘43 l ' 1‘

(S bscri ption rates)
lndivi duals & Non- profit groups

Asian countries: US$20. 00 (p. a/air snail,
TIE JAPAN CITIZEN NOW is a monthly Other countrie as U S325. 00 (p. a. /air mai_,
newsle ter. Profit groups : USS SO .00 (p.a./airm..ai13
I:-you are interested in subscribi.g, Domestic subscribers: ¥3,000 (p.a.)
please write to us with your name and
address

 

 

 

 

 

 

PRESS ALTERNATIVE . g 5mg8‘ . 60
Central-Meguro 102, Mita 2-7-10 .; ,;

Meguro-ku, Tokyo 153, Japan

 

 

 

 

 

 

I) I? I PU"F I3 I) PVIZA.’F 'T t3 It i

 

 

 

 

 

A RMA LE

 

 




 

 

 

 

Doctor Arrested for Illegally Selling
Calcium Water

0n Jan.10 the Metropolitan Police
Department arrested Dr.Hiroshi Nishida
and three associates for producing and
selling a soft drink 'Denkai (elec-
trolyzed) Calcium‘ saying it was helpful
for allergic nasitis and skin problems,
in violation of the Drug, Cosmetics and
Medical Instruments Law.

They said that Dr.Nishida had drawn up
the 'Nishida-way Health Method', written
some books about physical health and
advertized the effect of 'calcium water'
in those books. According to the law,
one must obtain the Minister's permit
before claiming any effects on health.

Meanwhile, the Police said that
Nishida also established, in 1973, the
‘Japan Association for Instructing
Physical Improvement' and the 'Japan
Overweight Consultant Association' which
together had 1,100 members from

pharmacies throughout the country. He
had the members purchase his books and

promote his products, which made the
books best sellers. He sold about
5,554,000 bottles of 'Denkai Calcium'
(¥5.4 bil.) and made ¥2 bil. profit: the
drink cost only ¥220 to make, wholesaled
at ¥1,575 and retailed at ¥3,500.

The Ministry has made much of this
incident ~~that 1,100 pharmacies took
part in selling illegal products, and
decided on Jan.21 to give administrative
punishments to them, including business
suspension. They are drawing up a
guideline for proper. formulation of
’health foods' which have harmful
substances and possible side effects in
case of excessive consumption.

Meanwhile, On Jan.22 Mr. Fukui, the
President of the Japan Health Food
Associasion with 461 members, answered
questions in the Committee of the House
of Councillors that they will set up a
standard for health_ foods, and label
’teki(proper)' on products meeting the
standard. (compiled from articles of
Nihon Keizai, Asahi, Yomiuri and The
Daily Yomiuri, Jan.10-23, 1986 /0307)

Four Hospitals Still Use an Anti-Emetic
Drug Whose Sales have been Suspended by
the Maker '

0n Jun.17, a group of doctors dis-
covered that at least four hospitals
have stored a large amount of ’Donperi-
done (Nauzelin)' for injection and are
still using it, even though it has been
voluntarily suspended from sale by the
maker, Kyowa Hakko Kogyo Co., Ltd.,
since last November after causing
successive shock deaths.

According to their research, these
four hospitals have stored considerable
amounts of these injections in a ready-
to-use condition as a general anti-
emetic drug for use with colds or
enterititis.

Donperidone was developed by the
Belgian Janssen company and received a
licence from the Ministry of Health and
Welfare in 1982 for improving the condi-
tion of digestive organs in cases such
as vomiting or loss of appetite when an
anti-cancer drug is taken.

However 17 cases, including difficulty
in breathing, convulsions and loss of
consciousness, have been reported for
three years after sales started and
seven people have died.

The Kyowa Hakko Kogyo said that after
recieving a direction from MHH, they
issued a 'letter to Doctors' four times
warning of a 'serious shock-like
condition‘ as a side effect and they
suspended‘ the sales on Nov.5 1985.
Mr.Egawa of the company said that they
visited all doctors and hospitals and
explained the point completely.

However, as a result of inquiries
among 40 doctors in public hospitals by
the group, none of them said they had
receive any letter directly from the
company before the suspension and only
one doctor said he recieved it
indirectly. (Asahi, Jan.18, 1986 /O308)

Advisory Pannel Says 55 Drugs Found
Ineffective

An advisory council of the Health and
Welfare Ministry stated in a report
Thursday that a total of 55 drugs now on
sale had been found to be ineffective
and -recommended the suspension of their
manufacture and sales.

 




The Central Pharmaceutical Affairs
Council submitted the report to the
ministry after reevaluating 169 drugs
which had been approved by the govern-
ment before September 1967. The
ministry then ordered drug makers to
suspend manufacture and sales of the 55
drugs in question and recall them within
one to six months.

The advisory council has been conduct—
ing the reevaluation of the drugs which
were approved before Septembver 1967,
when the government imposed far more
severe standards for approving drugs
following a series of medical drugv
induced illnesses. The council re—
evaluated 169 drugs including 104 drugs
for digestive organs and 27 drugs for
metabolism.

The council explained that 55 of the
drugs were determined ineffective on the
grounds that more effective drugs had
been developed and that data supplied
with the drugs were insufficient. The
total sales of the 55 drugs reached
¥15,120 million in 1984, with urokinase,
a drug for circulatory organs,
accounting for more than 90 percent of
the total.

Furthermore, the council recommended
that drug makers correct claims for
effectiveness of 34 other drugs on the
ground that only some of the claims were
true.

The advisory council has so far re-
evaluated a total of 18,433 drugs, 95
percent of the 19,400 drugs to be
evaluated. A total of 1,036 drugs have
so far been determined to be ineffec—
tive. (The Japan Times, Jan, 1986 /0309)

Non-Fatal Kawasaki Disease, AIDS Strik-
ingly Similar, Pediatrician Notes

A baffling, usually non-fatal disease
first identified in children only 20

years ago in Japan is
simiilar to AIDS, a
reported Wednesday.

Dr. Marian E. Milish, associate
professor of pediatrics at the Univer-
sity of Hawaii, said -most children
stricken with Kawasaki disease recover
in a few weeks. But during the course
of the illness the child's immune system
becomes surpressed just as it does in

remarkably
pediatrician

‘and a body rash.

the deadly Acquired Immune Deficiency
Syndrome.

”Patients with Kawasaki disease have a
disorder of their immune regulation that
is a mirror image of that seen in AIDS,’
said Melish, who spoke during an
American Heart Association conference.

Doctors are not sure what causes
Kawasaki disease but believe it may be a
virus or bacterial agent. Melish said
there is no evidence it spreads from
person to person contact although it
does strike in epidemics, usually in the
spring and fall.

First identified in Japan, reports of
the disease have spread to Hawaii and as
far East as Boston, she said. .

The disease is characterized by high
fever, temporary arthritis, peeling skin
Most patients will
develop swollen hearts and 30 percent
will suffer permanent heart disorders,
said Melish.

A small percentage will die of heart
attacks during the disease, she said.

The disorder seems to strike only very
young children, most of them of Asian
descent, she said. She estimates 25,000
children worldwide will contract the
disease this year, but many will go
undiagnosed. (The Japan Times, Jan.17,
i986 /0310)

 

 

 

 

Medical Fees for Aged Issue Pushed

The Health and Welfare Ministry Monday
asked an advisory panel to discuss the
advisability of raising the medical fees
for PeOple aged 70 or over and of
introducing a new type of facilities to
take care of bedridden aged people from
fiscal 1987. If everything 9035
smoothly, the medical fees for the aged
people will go up from June.

According to the ministry's plan, the
monthly medical fee for an outpatient
aged 70 or over will be raised from the
current ¥4OO to ¥1,000. The daily fee
for an inpatient aged 70 over will be
raised from the current ¥300 to ¥500.
At Present, an aged inpatient has to pay

 




the fee only for the first two months in
his or her stay in a hospital. But this
privilege will be abolished.

The new type of facilities to take
care of bedridden aged people will be
something intermediate between a home
and a hospital. Under the ministry's
plan, such facilities will look after
bedridden aged people, give them basic
medical treatment and rehabilitation
training.

The
municipal

prefectural government and

government concerned will pay
30 percent of the cost to run such an
intermediate facility and the health
insurance schemes will pay the remaining
70 percent.

In Japan, there are
bedridden aged people.
are staying at home.
Jan.21, 1986 /0311)

about 480,000
Of them 270,000
(The Japan Times,

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Paraguat Deaths Total 1,021 In '85
Throughout Japan

The number of deaths caused by the
agricultural chemical Paraquat reached
1,021 in Japan last year, nearly twice

the 594 figure for the year before, the
National Police Agency (NPA) reported
Thursday.

The large number
deaths is due primarily to
handling of the highly

of Paraguat—caused
the poor
poisonous

chemical by retail shops and farmers,
officials said.
Suicides topped the list of deaths

from Paraguat poisoning in 1985 at 985,
followed by mistaken consumption at 14,
and six murder cases.

In addition, NPA officials noted, 15
deaths were reported last year in indis-
criminate murder cases in which canned
juice and other beverages from vending
machines were laced with Paraguat.

Under the Poisonous Matter Regulation
Law, a person dealing with Paraquat is
obliged to keep it in a locked case and

instructed not to sell the chemical to
those who fail to produce ID cards .or
other means of identification, according

5

 

to the NPA.

The agency will launch a nationwide
monthly campaign in February against the
careless handling of Paraquat, the
officials added. (The Daily Yomiuri,
Jan.3l, 1986 /O312)

 

 

 

 

Methyl Alcohol Car Experiment

On Jan.7, the Tokyo Metropolitan Gov't
started the first road testing in Japan
of a van powered by methyl alcohol. In
the road test, which lasts until the end
of March, the test vehicle will be
driven around Tokyo, while its exhaust
gas is precisely analyzed.

The Tokyo Gov't failed to reduce the
nitrogen oxide and photochemical oxidant
in the air to the. standard level
targeted for the spring of 1985. One
reason is the technological difficulty
of reducing these emissions from the

fumes of large cars powered by diesel
oil. So the gov't hopes the methyl
alcohol car will be an alternative to

the diesel car whose exhaust is reported
to be carcinogenic.

Since methyl alcohol is made from
natural gas, it produces only a quarter
of nitrogen oxide of diesel fuel in the
US, W. Germany, and Sweden.

In Japan, the Transport Ministry is
conducting research to use methyl
alcohol for trucks and buses instead of
diesel fuel. But the Tokyo gov't thought
that since the ministry's data was based
on a laboratory experiment, it was not
very realistic, and decided to start its
own road test.

The test vehicle is a van modified by
a joint venture of 54 transport and
chemical companies which was developed
under the supervision of Transport
Ministry. The Tokyo gov’t rented it
from the joint venture for the experi-
ment on the Tokyo streets. Based on the
result, Tokyo gov't hopes to back the
methyl alcohol car very strongly.
(Yomiuri, Mainichi and The Daily
Yomiuri, Jan.8-9, 1986 /0313)

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

Prevent 'High Technology Pollution'

On Jan.22, the Ministry of Internatio-
nal Trade and Industry (MITI) decided to
submit, in this Diet session, an amend-
ment to the law 'Examination of Chemi—
cals Law’ in short, in order to prevent
the so-called 'high technology pollu-
tion,‘ i.e. pollution of soil or under-
ground water by chemicals which are used
in the semiconductor manufascturers.

MITI intends to newly restrict the
production and usage of three kinds of
organic chloro-chemical, trichlor0r
ethylene, tetrachlorethylene, and
trichloroethane, any of which can be

used as an oil solvent in the
semiconductor, gilding, or cleaning
industry.

In the present 'Examination of

Chemicals Law,’ only 7 “specified
chemicals' indluding PCB or DDT, are
prohibited to use, because they fill
three conditions: 1)they do not degrade
in the environment 2)They accumulate in
the bodies of living things 3)They have
chronic toxicity. As organic chloro-
chemicals are not restricted under the
present law beccause they do not fill
condition 2, MITI will designate the
’chemicals needing special care' as
those which fill any two of the above
three conditions, and make it a duty for
the producers and importers of them to
report the quantity and the purpose of

_ use, to investigate their toxicity, and

to regulate the quantity produced or
imported. (Asahi and Yomiuri, Jan.23,
1986 /0314)

Biological
Developed

Sewage Treatment systems which use
biological methods are being experi-
mented within Japan.

Sewage Agency under thev Ministry of
Construction succeeded with an experi-
ment in which the treated sewage was
drained as a last stage into an arti—
ficial marsh planted with bullrush and
the nitrogen or phosphorus in the sewage
was cut down. By that treatment, bio-
chemical oxgen demand(BOD) was cut by
20—50%, while nitrogen content was cut
by 50-60%, and phosphorus content by 30—
50% in the sewage. Bullrush metabolizes

Sewage Treatment Systems

'channels.

  
 
   
  
  
   
 
   
 
  
  
  
   
 

them, and when fully grown, it can be
cut down and made into natural
fertilizer blended with sewage mud. The
agency' hopes to introduce this system
into the sewage treatment centers around
Japan after more detailed investigation.

On the other hand, the Environment
Agency announced that it will begin a
sewage treatment experiment which uses
mallows and watercress, In this experi-
ment, unused rice paddies are cut with
many narow channels where these water
plants are planted, and the waste
effluent from homes is drained into the
Soil microbes in the paddies
and water plants both metabolise nitro—
gen and phosphorus in the water, which
are known to cause eutrophication, indu-
cing abnormal growth of moss and killing

‘fish.

Though the Agency's experiment is for
the treatment of sewage, the water
plants are already used for cleaning in
some lakes and marshs, while for the
rivers, there is already a method for
laying small rocks on the river bed, to
make the microbes who live there
eliminate nitrogen and phosphorus.
(The Japan Times, Asahi and Nihon Kei-
zai, Jan.5-24, 1986/ 0315)

Standards for the Contamination of Soil

On Jan.29, the Environment AgenCY
submitted the report on the contami—
nation standards and the treatment
methods of polluted soil. Though this
report is only about publicly owned
land, this is the first national
standard for soil pollution, and it is
hoped to develop it into a general soil
pollution standard, because heavy metal
contamination in soil is growing
seriously in the city areas.

The standard enacts the permitted
level for heavy metals and chemicals in
1kg of soil: mercury 3mg, cadmium 9mg,
lead 600mg. None of these chemicals must
be Present: alkyl mercury, organic
Phosphorus, arsenic, cyanide, PCB, and
sexavalent chromium. If the contami-
nation level is higher than permitted
for any of these substances, the land
owner must take some treatment measures,
the rSport says. The report recomends

 

  




treatments including covering the
contaminated soil with clean soil,
planting, or solidifying the contami-
nated soil into concrete vessels. (Mai—
nichi, Jan.30, 1986/ 0316)

On Acid Rain
1. A report

The Industrial Pollution Prevention
Association Corporation completed the
’Study and Report on Wet Air Pollution‘

by examining basic documents about acid.

rain.

They focussed on documents about the
mechanism of causing acid rain and field
investigations. According to the study,
the damage in Japan is mainly to
stimulate eyes or skin. The distinctive
feature of Acid Rain is that it is a
wide ranging phenomenon affecting
regions beyond national boundaries.
The report shows analyses or models of
long distance effects in 1,000km units.
It also shows studies of the acidifying
processes for ’Sulphur Oxide(SxOx)' and
’Nitrogen Oxides(NxOx)', and the deposi-
tion of polluting substances on the
surface of the earth and also of the
cleaning process.

They are going to continue their
examinations from now on. (Nikkei San-
gyo, Jan.11, 1986 /0317)

2. A Symposium

A symposium on Acid Rain was held on
Jan.27—28 at the National Pollution
Institute of the Environment Agency in
Ibaraki Prefecture.

Mr.Okita showed current and 20 year
old data on Tokyo. He reported that
because of the restrictions on exhaust
smog by factories, the density of
sulfuric acid has decreased to a third.
But the density of nitric acid has
doubled while the density of calcium and
magnesium has decreased to a fourth. In
such circumstances we could hardly
decide whether the- environment as a

whole has improved or deteriorated.
Therefore we need to review the
situation nationwide adding new

measurements including ones of hydrogen
peroxide and formaldehyde. (Yomiuri,
Jan.28, 1986 /0318)

The Environmental Agency Invites
Volunteers to Conduct Visibility Survey

The Environmental Agency will conduct
a survey as follows. Each city, town or
village , fixes a target which is 5, 10
or 20km away from the center. A
volunteer or volunteer group registers
the survey spot and records how far he
(she, they) can see every day. Aggre-
gating the data, the municipality calcu-
lates average visibility. The survey
period is any one month between February
and April, as decided_by the municipali-
ty. The Municipality will send the
Environmental Agency the data. And the
Agency will publish the data.

But some are anxious about the dis-
advantages of this survey. Some doubt
the precision of the survey because of
the amateur observers. Others claim
that the Agency should take account of
the existence of Nitrogen Oxides, which
are invisible but still polluting air.
(Asahi. Jan.10, 1986 /0319 )

Let's Save Wild Life

On Jan.2, The Environment Agency
decided to set up an advisory council,
the 'Council for Wild Life Protection',
made of about 8 specialists, in order to”
make progress in the protection of wild
animals and vegetation. In this council,
measures to protect and care for wild
life, especially species in danger of
extinction will be discussed.

The Agency, also decided to set up a
new department called the ’Wild Life
Division’ this July, and to make a list
of species in danger of extinction,
titled ’The Red Data Book of Japan,‘ to
be completed in 3 years.

The Agency says 109 species including
8 mammals, 35 birds, 10 amphibians, 11
reptiles, 14 fish, 14 insects, 18 plants
are in special danger and need of quick
protection measures.

-But this number seems very modest.
Though Japan has about 108,340 kinds of
wild species now (includes mammals,
birds, amphibias, reptiles, crustaceans,
fresh-water fish, birds and plants),
according to the Agency, it already has
lost 3 species of mammals and 11 birds.
Not much is known of the ways of living
of many of the species. Nor are the

 

 




 

numbers of species exact.

Exploitation of wild areas and
reckless hunting are the main causes of
extinction. A novel insect Yanbaru-
tenagakogane, a kind of beetle, which
was discovered in 1983 is already in
danger because of reckless hunting by
insect collectors. A kind of seaturtle,
the Taimai is also in danger because of
people stealing its eggs. (Nihon Kei—
zai, Mainichi and Asahi, Jan.3-6, 1986
/0320)

Group Launches Drive to Help Birds

The Japanese Association for preserva-
tion of Birds launched an appeal Tuesday
to golf clubs around the country to
plant trees and place nest boces to lure
wild birds to their courses.

The association is trying to expand
the habitats of wild birds in a move
that will also improve the usually
negative image of golf courses, which
are notorious for destroying nature
because of their construction, according
to the association.

A few golf courses, including a pres-
tigious club in Sayama, Saitama Prefec—
ture, already have agreed to comply with
the association's plan. The association
said they have sent their appeal to
around 1,500 golf courses nationwide.

The golf courses cooperating with the
association ae provided with suggestions
as to feeding places and afforestation,
the association said.

Hidenori Ebara, a spokesman for the
association, said that it was wasteful
not to make full use of the already
limited habitat for the wild birds.

'This is a good opportunity for the 10
million golf players around the country
to come in‘ closer contact with wild
birds,‘ he said.

The association hopes new golf courses
built from now on will leave a part of
their courses in the natural setting as
habitat for wild birds.

Golf courses, contrary to their
natural appearances are quite artifi-
cial, the spokesman pointed out. (The
Japan Times, Jan.29, 1986 /0321)

 

 

 

 

Food Additive Labelling Being Improved

On Jan.23, an advisory panel to the
Health and Welfare Ministry released a
midterm report recommending that the
number of synthetic food additives on
the identification requirement list be
increased from the present 76 to about
280.

Currently, labelling is called for in
only 76, or about 20% of a total of 347
food additives approved by the govern-
ment. In the report, the scope of
control was extended to about 80% of all
food additives.

As the present scope of labelling
requirement is limited to 20%, the food
industry are apt to use the other 80% of
additives, and claim their products are
’natural' or 'free of additives,‘ mis-
leading ing the consumers.

The report listed preservatives,
antioxidants, coloring agents, color
enhancers, bleaching agents, sweetening
agents which need to be identified both
by substance name (generic name) and
usage purpose. About the other kinds of
additives, the report recommended only
that they are identified by substance
name.

The Ministry started a review of the
labelling of food additives to meet
consumer demands which increased in 1983
when the government admitted 11 new
additives as part of a market opening
package agreed with the US, making total
of 347 approved additives.

When the new controls over food addi-
tives are implemented maybe in next
year, labelling of food additives in
Japan will be brought up to American and
European standards, the Ministry said.
(The Japan Times, The Daily Yomiuri,
Mainichi and Yomiuri, Jan.24-Feb.2, 1986
/0322)

School Lunches Turn from 'Nutrition
Supply' to 'Diet Quality'

The Health and Physical Education
Council of the Ministryv of Education

 

 

 




proposed to the Minister a plan to
revise the nutrition standards and the
standard diet construction chart for
school lunches for the first time in 15
years to control the quality of
nutrition. One reason is Japanese over-
nourishment is often called into
question, another is to reinforce the
nutritious elements lacking in the
younger generations diet.

In the revision of the nutrition
standards, it has reduced calorie,
protein, fat and calcium requirement,
and set up new standard for iron which
should be reinforced.
diet construction chart, there is less
bread, rice, milk and meat, and more
fish and green vegetables and also add
some seeds rich in iron, and seaweed.

The Ministry of Education will embark’

this plan in April. (Yomiuri, Jan.14,

1986 /0323)

 

L'

 

 

 

Some Paper Diapers Found to be Defective

A housewives' group in Osaka
Prefecture found that both old and new
paper diapers for babies had different
qualities and prices according to the
producers, and also that some of them
were defective. This research was done
by three young housewives and won a
prize in a competition sponsored by the
Product Science Laboratory.

Paper diapers have become very popular
recently because of their usefulness.
Last year 110 million diapers were
produced, over ten times as many as ten
years ago.

But the housewives began to suspect
their quality since new types were
appearing on the market one after
another. That is why they set up the
product test at once. In result, they
found not only some had defective points
such as dripping water but also found
out which were the better quality ones
which had high prices.

They described about the characteris-
tiCS' of a good paper diaper such as

In the standard'

quick absorbing, soft touch, no leaking
and soft snug fitting. (Mainichi,
Jan.12, 1986/ 0324)

Mercury Found in an Imported Mexican
Dgll

A doll, 'Cagar.Doll', made in Mexico
which has been imported for three years
and sold for about ¥850 each. This
comical doll is half—sitting and by
inserting a combustible cartridge and
lighting it, Cinders excrete like
faeces. This doll became especially
popular among the young after a popular
TV program introduced it last spring.

However the 'Japan Recreation and
Miscellaneous Goods Safety Laboratory'
conducted a safety test last July for it
and found that 60% of the ingredients of
the cartridge was mercury and 19%

sulfur. Meanwhile, the Tokyo Custom
House also conducted their own
examination with the same results.

Subsequently, the Custom House banned
its importation after November 1985.

Mercury is designated as a poisonous
substance under the Poisonous and
Deleterious Substances Control Law and
requires registration by the Ministry of
Health and Welfare. But tens of
thousands dolls had already been
imported without any registration.
According to the professions, it will
not be fatal even if children hold it in
their mouth, however, it would probably
cause the disorder to bodily functions
if it accumulates. The MHW has discussed
possible measures for the dolls already
imported into Japan. (Nihon Keizai,
Jan.18, 1986 /0325)

Product-Liability Premium on Exports for
US To Go Up Sharplx

Damage insurance companies will
greatly raise premiums for product—
liability insurance on products exported

.to the US from this April.

Growing numbers of cases in the US,
filing for compensation for damages
caused by defective products, and
increasing the amounts of compensation
have affected companies' business badly.

 

 




This has caused major world insurance

companies to hesitate to
reinsurances.

The world's big reinsurance companies,
including Lloyd’s, had made fundamental
changes in contract in fiscal 1986 for
exports to the US: 1) exclude in princi-
ple those products with a high frequency
of product—liability suits 2) inclusion
of cost for suit in compensation 3)
exclude punitive compensation. To
deal with this issue, the companies will
increase premiums on average to twice
the current rates and more than five
times for some products. ‘ Moreover they
will probably refuse to accept those of
high risk products, such as asbestos,
automobile parts and drugs.

In negotiations, some companies held
back on exports to the US and changed
their exports to countries in South-East
Asia. (Nihon Keizai, Jan.7, 1986/ 0326)

accept

Matsushita Gives ¥800 Million in Compen-
sation for Defective Color TVs in China

On the morning of Jan. 14th, Beijin
Broadcastin Centre reported a newspaper
story in ’third Industry News' that
MatSushita will take responsibility for
the defective color TVs, which were
exported to China in July last year.
The compensation will cost about 800
million yen.

More than 90% of the Chinese consumers
complained that they could not get clear
pictures, and the TVs turned out to have
serious defects.

Matsushita explained that vertical
lines occur on the screen due to radia-
tion interference when receiving low
numbered channels (1- 4) with indoor
antennas in districts where the signal
is very weak. Matsushita agreed to spend
about 800 million yen, the cost of
changing a transistor amplifier circuit.
(Mainichi, Jan.15, 1986 /0327)

 

 

 

 

 

.conditioning/ heating.

Alternative Energx

1. Sewage used for Airconditioning and
Heating

The Ministry of Construction will
start a new enterprise,: 'Local Air
Conditioning and Heating System', using
heat from treated sewage in six big
cities from fiscal 1986.

The system uses treated sewage after
purifying it to make air—conditioning/
heating function of a. heat-pump and
produce warm/cold air. This system can
save energy and 20% of the cost for air-
(Nihon Keizai,
Jan.7, 1986 /0328)

2. Sewage Mud for electricity

Tokyo metropolitan government will
start construction of a practical plant
for producing solid fuel which has
almost the same calorific value as coal
for use in thermal power generation.

The process is as followes: 1)squeeze
out water and make a 'dehydration cake'
with 80% of water and 20% of solids 2)
dry it by water evaporation and make a
'dry cake' with 87% of solid element and
9% of oil element. 70% of the solids
are organic matter.

They estimate that the electricity
they will produce will be worth ¥24O
million a year. (Asahi, Jan.17, 1986
/0329)

3. Wind Energy Experiment

The Science and Technology Agency is
going to launch an experimental system
in which wind energy is changed into the
thermoenergy and used for heating* agri-
cultural hot houses in Akita Prefecture.

This is the first such system in the
world, developed at a cost of ¥ 620
million ( about 33.1 mil.), and is
getting attention as a step forward in
the utilization of wind energy.

This system involves 14m long propel—
lars mounted on platforms, 15m high.
The Propellers catch the wind and set
the compressor in motion, this com-
presses the air and generates heat at
170 degree centigrade. This is used
for heating the water' to 80 degree

_'10...

 

 




 

centigrade, which is supplied for the
heater in a hothouse. The surplus heat
is stored using an oxidized iron/titan
alloy powder. , This alloy generates
hydrogen when heated and generates heat
when hydrogen is added. The surplus heat
is changed into hydrogen in this alloy.
When there is no wind, the hydrogen is
changed into heat, and air at 80 degree
centigrade is blown into the hothouses.

In the experiment, which lasts until
March, greens and tomatoes are being
grown. Based on the results, the Akita
Prefecture will decide whether to
continue this study after March. (Nihon
Keizai, Jan.4, 1986 /0330)

Crude Oil Imports Drop below 200 mi1.k1
after 15 years

According to the oil statistics report

released by MITI on Jan.27, crude oil

imports last year ammounted less than

200 mil.kl for the first time in 15
years. The imports dropped by 30% from
the peak of 287 mil.k1 in 1973.

This was a result' of industries'
energy-saving measures and replacing oil
with nuclear, coal and LNG (liquefaction
natural gas). (Asahi, Jan.28, 1986
/0331)

 

 

 

 

Okayama Seeks Safer N—Plant

Okayama-ken authorities asked the
Science and Technology Agency and_ the
Power Reactor and Nuclear Fuel Develop-
ment Corp. Monday to ensure the safe
operation of the corporation’s Ningyo-
toge uranium enrichment plant in Kami-
saibara.

The request stemmed from a leak of
radioactive gas at a nuclear fuel plant
in the United States on Saturday.

The authorities asked the Science and
Technology Agency to obtain information
about the cause of the leak at a uranium
processing plant in Oklahoma and furnish
the information to the prefectural

government.

They also urged Workers at the plant
to ensure the safe control of its faci-
lities. (The Daily Yomiuri, Jan.7,
1986 /0332)

 

 

 

 

Japan-U.S. Weapons Tech Meet Ends

, The United States is interested in
obtaining Japanese laser, optical fiber
and other high technology for possible
use by the American military, Japanese
sources said Wednesday.

, The technology transfers came up for
discussion during two days of talks in
Washington between Japanese and U.S.
defense officials earlier this week.

Japanese sources said the Americans
presented a list of seven technologies
in which they said the U.S. military is
interested.

The list was condensed from a wider
technology transfer list which the
United States presented to Japan in May
last year. At that time, the U.S. list
contained a total of 47 items.

The other fields of technology in the
condensed list said to be of interest to
the Pentagon are milliwave and microwave
technology, gallium arsenide -- the
material for high-speed, high-density
computer chips -- optical processors,
infrared imaging, and computerized
design of very largeescale integrated
circuits.. {The Japan Times, Jan.l7,
1986 /0333) '

 

 

 

 

 

Head of Human Rights Group Critical of
Fingerprint Law

Amy Young, executive director of' the
International Human Rights Law Group in
Washington, D.C., said Wednesday the
Japanese government should remove the
current compulsory fingerprinting
requirement imposed on non-Japanese

 

 




residents because the method is ques-
tionable from the VieWpoint of human
rights.

’Well, this is a land of technology.
I am sure the Japanese government can
come up with an alternative (identifi-
catin) method like photographs that
cannot be tampered with,’ said the
American legal expert in an interview
with The Japan Times.

Young is in Japan presently to conduct
’independent and objective’ investi-
gation into alleged human rights cases
involving Korean residents here.

’The fingerprinting system should be
changed because this is obviously offen-
sive and odious to the Korean community
and to me it is just one of the fruits
of discriminatiOn here,’ she said.
Korean people account for the majority
of non-Japanese residents in Japan.

Her group, which has observer status
at the United Nations’ Commission on
Human Rights, is looking into question~
able human rights practices in various
countries.

In 1980, Young came to Japan to
investigate what her group perceives as
human rights violations involving Korean
people here, and the group afterward
filed a complaint with the U.N. Commis-
sion on Human Rights. The group has
since made statements on the subject in
the commission and its sub-commission.

The group plans to publish the results
of her investigation, including a review
of many court cases here with comments
of government officials and other peole
concerned with human rights problems.

She said, 'Our interest in Japan is
particularly based on Japan’s accession
to international treaties, the Inter-
national Covenant on Civil and Political
Rights and the Covenant on Economic,
Social and Cultural Rights. These two
treaties obligate Japan to treat all
people here with equality,’ she noted.
(Toshio Jo, The Japan Times, Jan.23,
1986 /0334)

Children of Returnees Bullied by Class-
.mates, Report Sax:

About 60 percent of the children ’of
Chinese of Japanese parentage who came
to Japan to resettle here experienced
bullying at their school, accordingwto a

 

report revealed at the meeting of the
Japan Teachers Union (Nikkyoso) Monday.

The report was made by a group of six
teachers of Yamanashi Prefecture based
on their survey conducting last October
on 29 out of 33 children of the Chinese
returnees attending public primary and
junior high schools there, including 12
elementary school pupils.

According to the report, 17-- inclu-
ding 9 elementary school students-- said
they had been bullied at school since
they came to Japan.

The teachers reported three cases: A
junior high school girl, here for six
years, became the target of constant
bullying by her classmates. She com-
plained that some of the other students
threw chalk at her and that they often
‘called 'filthy' and told her to ’go back
home.’ Those who bullied the girl cited
reasons for bullying her as: 'I feel
nauseated when I hear the word Chinese,’
’She stinks,’ ’She is unclean,’ and ’She
is gloomy.’

The second case involved a junior high
school boy, a resident of Japan for two
years, who was ridiculed because of his
Chinese language and became a target of
violence. He was also frequently told
to go back to his home country.

The report also cited the case of a
primary school child who often received
telephone calls at home, repeating that
he Chinese pupil should go back to
7hina.

The conductor of the survey, Shigeru
Tsuji, said that the bullying was a
reflection of the ,discriminatory
thinking of the adults. ’We must make
an all—out effort to teach our school-
children about the history of the
Japanese invasion of China and how the
Chinese of Japanese paretage were left
in China during World War II,’ Tsuji
said. (The Japan Times, Jan.21, 1986
/0335)

\ r"

(A.

Court Rejects Juvenile Plea

The Supreme Court has passed a
precedent-setting ruling, upholding the
constitutionality of a provision in the
Juvenile Law, which prohibits a minor
subjected to a term at a correctiVe
facility, in' a criminal case, from

-12...

 

 

 




 

seeking retrial after completion of the
reformative period, it was learned
Saturday.

The Supreme Court judgment came in
connection with an appeal lodged by a
18-year~old boy against the Chiba Family
Court’s Matsudo Branch decision in 1981
placing him under probation at a
reformatory. While at the reformatory,
the boy sought a new trial to prove his
innocence.

After being turned down by both the
family court and the Tokyo High Court,
the Supreme Court accepted the retrial

requests in 1983, on the grounds that '

the boy was still under protective
custody in the reformatory.

Dissatisfied with the top court's
ruling in last April which rejected his
claim, he and his attorney made a second
retrial attempt in last July.

The Supreme Cout recently passed a
judgment in favor of the constitutio-
nality of the Juvenile Law provision,
which says that an inmate of a juvenile
reformatory can seek a new court proce~
dure during detention.

The defense counsel argued that the
Juvenile Law clause at issue is in
violation of equality before the law as
guaranteed by the Constitution, because
adult convicts may seek retrial even if
they have completed a prison term.
(compiled from The Daily Yomiuri,
Jan.12, 1986 /0336)

 

 

 

 

OECD Will Probe into the Agricultural
Protection in Japan

The OECD is now preparing a report
that makes clear the actual condition of
Japanese agriculture. It shows the
research and analysis of measures of
agricultural protection in Japan in the
context of the relation between Japanese
agricultural policy and international
trade.

For example, about Wheat, it already
found that the rate of Govt's help for
producers in Japan were three and_ half
times as the rate in the EC. Therefore

the EC might be expected to pick up the
example of wheat in the report and call
Japanese overprotectionist agriculture

into question. (Nihon Keizai, Jan.7,

1986 /0337)

 

 

 

 

Textbooks Given Tougher Checks

The Education Ministry, in its
screening of social studies textbooks
for use at middle schools from next
April, conducted closer and more
stringent screening of the textbooks
although ministry officials called for
fewer revisions, says a report released
by a union of publishers Friday.

The Shuppan roren or Japan Federation
of Publishing Workers' Unions said the
ministry's screening has become closer
and more stringent to bring the text-
books in line with government policies.

The 1986 'Textbook report,’ as the
report is called, covers about half of
the textbooks reviewed in 1985 by
Education Ministry who checked middle
school social studies textbooks pub-
lished by eight companies and dealing
with geography, history and citizenship.

As characteristics of the latest
screening, the report says the ministry
called for drawing clear boundaries
delineating the Soviet-held four islands.
off Hokkaido claimed by Japan as its
northern territory, clarifying the role
of the defense forces, and setting forth
positive evaluation of nuclear power
generation.

In regard to a textbook's reference
which says, 'Compared to education and
other budgets, that of defense in par-
ticular was growing annually to the
dissatisfaction of the people, ‘textbook
reviwers pointed out that defense
spending (in terms of actual value) did
not stand out.

In another example, the report says
that ministry officials called for
adding the concept of nuclear balance
when discussing nuclear war and peace
movements. (The Daily Yomiuri, Jan.18,
1986 /0338)

+13+~

 




 

 

 

 

Labor Unions Asks to Revise 'Law on

Dispatching BusinessX'

(*this refers to the activities of
Employment/Recruiting Agencies)

Labor unions, including Japan Broad—
cast Workers Unions, appealed to the ILO
last year that the 'Law for Dispatching
Business', legislated last June, and
going into effect from July 1, violates
the ILO Agreement.

The ILO Agreement No.96 Article.10,
which deal with Employment Agencies and
Japan has already ratified, a registra-
tion-style job introduction is laid down
as follows: l)a year period of permit;
2)a licence system for mediation in jobs
abroad; 3)restriction on such company's
fees. While the law provides for:
1)three years period; 2)a report system;
3)no restriction.

Mr.Sakane of the Ministry of Labor
said that the Agreement No.96 states
that the situation when the employment/
recruiting agency employs the workers is
totally different from when its client
company employs them. Only the latter
situation is covered by ILO Agreement
No.96 -- according to Mr.Sakata. The
Ministry can check those companies by
requiring them to submit business
reports 'and balance sheets of revenue
and expenditure.

The labor unions claimed 'the Agree-
ment was established to regulate
evasions of laws. Unless the defects in
the law are removed, the Agreement will

 

 

We are always monitoring the conduct of
administrative bodies and corporations,
and following the activities of citizen
movements 'in Japan --—- all from a
citizen’s point of view.

We select articles from the major news-
papers which we think will help in keep-
ing citizens in other countries up to
date and reliably informed about devel~
opments in Japan.

Our main newspaper sources are: Nihon
Keizai, Asahi, Mainichi, Yomiuri, Nikkei
Sangyo, Nihon Syohi Keizai, the Japan

Editors’ note

end up as an irrelevance to the real
world. The importance is in realities
not formalitiesf. (Nikkei Sangyo,
Jan.11, 1986 /0339)

Wholly Unemployed rate for 1985 was 2.6%

According to the labor force survey
conducted by the Management and Coordi-
nation Agency, the rate of wholly un-
employment (seasonally adjusted) for
December 1985 was 2.9%, was the highest
since 1953 when the survey started.
This was a reflection of export inacti-
vity mainly in manufacturing industry
caused by a high yen rate. But the
average wholly unemployment rate for the
whole year of 1985 was 2.6%, down from
the 2.7% for 1984 which was the highest
figure, indicating a little improvement.
(Asahi, Jan.31, 1986 /0340)

1985 Consumers Prices Up 2.1% over
Previous Year

The Management and Coordination Agency
announced that overall nationwide
consumer price index for December 1985
was 115.2 (1980:100), up 0.1% over the
previous month and up 1.8% over the same
month of the previous year. Conse-
quently, the average index for the whole
year of 1985 was 114.4, or 2.1% higher
than that of the previous year. This
rate of increase was the second lowest
since measurements began in 1959--
1983's figure 19% was the lowest. This
was attributable to the lowest increase
in foodstuff prices and the decline in

utility prices. (Asahi, Jan.31, 1986
/0341)

Times, The Daily Yomiuri and Asahi
Evening News.

After screening all the articles which
might be of interest, we decide collec-
tively which to translate and compile
into THE JAPAN CITIZEN NOW.

This issue was translated/edited by:

Emiko Hori
FUmiko Saito
Taketomo Miyashita

Kazue Harako
Naoko Nomura

 

 

 




 

For this they h

hat animals are subjected to
terrible pain so medical science
can come up with life-saving
drugs is hard enough to swal-
low. Impossible to swallow is the pain
suffered by animals in experiments that
have absolutely nothing to do with sav-
ing lives or ﬁghting disease. For exam.-
ple: To ﬁnd out whether such cosmetics
as eye shadow and mascara might irri-
tate human eyes and tissues, the chem-

 

cials that go into the junk are put in.

rabbit’s eyes. The Draize test, it’s called,
and because it has long been standard in
the cosmetics industry, manufacturers
have been loath to consider alternatives.

It’s hardly surprising that animal pro—
tection organizations, notably People for
Ethical Treatment of Animals, have
been ﬁghting the practice. It turns out
that they have an ally in the medical
profession itself ——- rabbit eyes aren’t at
all similar to human eyes, say the docs,
and the Draize test is therefore suspect
anyway. And another ally has emerged,
which is the cosmetics industry itself:
Heat from the animal protection advo-
cates is one reason, the Draize test’s ex-
pense another.

In fact the industry’s trade organiza-
tion -— the Cosmetic, Toiletry and Fra-
grance Association -— is the major source
of research ﬁinds for what we consider
an extremely welcome lab at the Johns

 

 

 

 

Subjecting rabbits to suffering
to test cosmetics such as eye
shadow may be on the way out,
thanks to efforts by a lab at
Hopkins —- and the cosmetics
industry itself.

 

 

Hopkins School of Public Health. This is
the Center for Alternatives to Animal
Testing, and it has come up with a test
that can be done in a laboratory test
tube. Good news, even better considering
the lab’s statement that it believes the
test to be the “ﬁrst of many” intended to
stop subjecting animals to pain for pur-
poses that we, at least, term frivolous.

Science moves slowly. The test proce-
dure has not been perfected, and it may
be four or ﬁve years before small ani- -
mals are completely safe from absolutely ,
unnecessary experimentation. But ev-
erybody concerned -——- the animal protec-
tion people, the researchers, the cosmet-
ics companies and Hopkins —- deserve
both thanks and applause for ﬁnally
moving to stop these cruel experiments.
Our hope now is that the School of Pub-
lic Health also will develop procedures to
test drugs important to medical science
so the animals can be left alone.

  




GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY
WASHINGTON,D.C.20057

INTEWRNATIONAL PROGRAMS TELEX: 64571 EFLGU
307 INTERCULTURAL CENTER

21 April 1986

Mrs. Christine Stevens
1686 34th Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20007

Dear Mrs. Stevens:

I am sorry that it was not possible for you to attend the recent meeting
of the International Programs Subcommittee.

Enclosed are minutes of the meeting. Soon I will be preparing short
descriptions of each of the programs we have discussed in our subcommittee,
and, in addition, a progress report and some questions for the subcommittee to
consider. In the meantime, I would be grateful if you would let me have
names, addresses, and Georgetown contacts in any companies which you feel
should be approached regarding one or more of our three projects (the
International Internships, the International Scholars Program, or the
International Faculty Endowment Program.)

Thank you again for your help and support.

lliam W. Cressey
Director

 




KUMDWESS ”CEMENT

SPIRIT INTERNATIONAL

A publication by:

WORLD SOCIETY FOR THE PROTECTION OF ANIMALS
Office for coordination of

humane education in Africa

341, Generaal Spoorlaan

2283 OH Rijswijk Z.H., The Netherlands.

MAY 1986 NO- 53 DEFENDER OF THE DEFENCELESS

3titttitittttttttitttiiiiitittttttittt

 

V—_

F O O D F O R T H O U G H T:

 

 

A CLEAN ENVIRONMENT HELPS TO PROVIDE A
HEALTHY LIVING PLACE FOR HUMANS AND
NATURE'S ANIMALS AND PLANTS.

 

O N T E N T S

2 EDITORIAL

3. 4. 5, 6, 7, 8 RESULTS OF WORLD ANIMAL DAY
1985 CONTEST

10 ACTIVITIES OF THE BEST KINDNESS
CLUBS OF AFRICA DURING THE
YEAR 1 9 8 5 .

POSTAGE STAMPS: Send us stamps from your own or a foreign
country and you will receive a choice of
stamps from Holland in return.

 




 

WORLD ANIMAL DAY

   
    
 

E s s A Y - c o N T E s T
1 9 8 5

3
«M
59’

 

 

Almost 4000 young Africans from 29 different countries participated
in this Contest: a recordnumber since in the previous year the number
was only 1500, which means a considerable increase.

We sincerely thank the competitors for their overwhelming interest as
well as the teaching staff and the national authorities, who kindly
distributed the information and sometimes collected the texts and send
them to us.

It has been extremely difficult to classify the entries and to choose

The winners. Those who have been awarded a prize are those who were able
to show their interest and their compassion for our friends the animals

in an outstanding way. Sometimes these texts were somewhat naive, yet they
were proof of sincerity and originality.

Monsver schools and Kindness Clubs who distinguised themselves by
preparing a big number of entries, will receive an overall-award for
their labour.

The young Africans not only gave proof of being aware of the suffering

of animals and of the need for devotion to them, but many evoked problems
of general interest and importance, specific to their own environment

for which they feel a deep concern, those deserve an extra word of
appreciation !

The proportionally greater number of entries from Senegal justifies the
considerable number of its prizes.

The individual non-classified competitors as well as those competitors
who belong to classified and to non-classified schools, do not need to be

disappointed; each of them will receive a "token of encouragement” for
his/her effort.

The best texts which were received for this great World Animal Day
Contest will be printed in next Kindness Magazine/Spirit International.

T h e P u b l i s h e r s

of Kindness Magazine/Spirit International
Rijswijk)May 1 9 8 6 .

N.B. All "main"- and'bvera11Vawards, as well as
the "tokens of encouragement" will be forwarded
by air, either before or after the summer-
holidays in order to avoid that they reach
destination at a period of absence of the adressee.

irii1k*i'iririi1k‘t'irlrit1h1k‘i'irﬁr{I1h‘i“iriririiii1i“irii1k'itIt1I'i'iriririi1i

10.

11.
12.

13.
1h

15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.

23.
2h.

25.
26.

27.

 

127A




The numbering represents the order of choice of the entry according to its merits.

 

 

 

w I N N E R s
(MAIN AWARDS)

L I s T“"

 

’
ﬁ

‘3
a
Les»

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

NO. COUNTRY TOWN NAME OF WINNER/AGE
1. Senegal Rufisque Abdoulaye Ndiaye, Lycée Abdoulaye Sadji, 20 years/
ans.
2. Burundi Bujumbura Rusanganwa Callixte, EcBle Normale de Rusengo
22 years/kns.
3. Benin Dogoudo Ahodi Edith, Ecﬁle de Base, 14 years/ans.
(Allada)
4.; Egypt Alexandria Haytham Faroqk Tantawy, The Principal E.G.C.,
E 12 yearsjens.
5.. Burkina Faso Dioulasso Paley Nimisso Michel Alfred, 17 years/ans.
6.‘ Malagasy Tananarive Rakotomahandry Anna.
7- Rép.Centrafr. Bangui Pamall Pascal, Lycée de Boy-Babe.
8 Burkina Faso Ouagadougou Balbone Harouna, Lycée Bogodogo de Ouagadou-
gou, 18 years/ans.
9. Malawi Malilana Anthony E.L. Khoropa, ”Tortoise" Kindness
Dedza Club of Africa, 16 yearS/anso
10. Senegal Daouda Ibrahima Sow, EcBle de M'Bour III, 17 years/ans.
Gningue
11. Senegal Thies Amadou Tidiane Sy, Ec81e Randouléne Sud I.
12- Rép.Centrafr. Bangui BiandjiIﬁeudonné, Lycée d'Etat des Rapides,
2O years/ans.
13. Burundi Bujumbura Niyonkuru Prime, 20 years/ans.
1% Senegal Thies Kante Mama Sountou, Lycée Malick Sy, 11 years/ans.
15. Senegal Fadiouth Sophie Emilie Dioh, 17 years/ans.
16. Burundi Bujumbura Ndmeye Jean, 17 years/ans.
17. Ethiopia Addis Ababa Meseret Eshetu, 15 years/ans.
18. Togo Bombouaka Adamou Mama, C.E.G. Bombouaka, 15 yearS/ans.
19. L'Ile Maurice Vacoas Erol Magdeleine, 18 yearS/ans.
20. Egypt Alexandria Dalia Hosny Hahib Relek,/E.Q.C. Qamp Cesar
21, Senegal Kaolack Moustapha N'Davgao years/ans
22. Senegal Thies Ndeye Codou Ndiaye, C.E.S. Amadou Goly Diop,
11 years/ans.
23- Senegal Thies Ndeye Fama Ndiaye, EcBle de Base, 11 years/ans.
2h. Zambia Kabompo Shimish Ndenda Richard, 15 years/ans.
25. Senegal Dakar (Ville, Maguette Samb, 1O years/ans.
26. Senegal Oussouye Adoulaye Diedhiuu, 11 years/ans.
(Casamance)
27. Senegal Kaolack Ndeye Fatou Soumare, EcBle Elementaire Hermann
Gmeiner 1O years/ans.
Diedhiou Prytanée Militalrg
27A4 Sénégal Saint-Louis Babacar Alexis 9 Charles N'Tchorere

~/~

3

 




 

 

 

 

 

N04 COUNTRY TOWN NAME OF WINNER/AGE

28. Ghana Nkawkaw Cecilio Adu, Presb. Middle School, 11 years/ans.

29. Togo Lome Dessouvi Komlan (if 3,,H,

30. Senegal Thies Avva Sall, E081e Elementaire Mixte, 11 years/ans.

31l Burundi Bujumbura Mdabashinze Hermalas, EcBle Normale de l'Etat,
16 years/ans.

32. Senegal Thies Ababacar Sadikh Sarr, EcBle Elementaire Aynina
Fall, 13 years/ans.

354 Rwanda Kigali Nzabanita Aloys, Groupe Scolaire Sant-André.
19 years/ans. _

3h. Burkina Faso Banfora Sagnon YVonne, College Ste ThéreSe, 12 years/ans.

35, Senegal Oussouye Camara Jean, College Joseph Faye, 14 years/ans.

(Casamance)

36, Burundi Bujumbura Mbayahaga Anne, 17 years/ans.

57, Senegal M'Bour Lassana Marie, Ecole de M'Bour I

38, Togo Lome Nagbe Adjoari, C.E.G. de Nyekonakpoe, 11 years/
ans.

39. Senegal Diourbel Mamadou Diagne, CM-II-B Ecﬁle Keur Yelli,

’ 12 years/ans.

40, Senegal Joal El Hadji Ndiaye, C.E.S. Lamine Senghor, 17 years/
ans.

41. Senegal M'Bour Rama Fall, Ecﬁle M'Bour IV, 10 years/ans.

#2. Senegal Diourbel Ndeye Anta Sene, CM-II-B ECBle Keur Yelli,
12 years/ans.

M3, Maroc Oujda Touri Ahmed, 21 years/ans.

hhl Gabon Port Gentil Kaba Jonas, Lycée d'Etat de Pog, 15 years/ens.

#5. Senegal Dakar (Ville N'diaye Goumba, 1O years/ans.

#6. Nigeria Lagos Taiwo Obdokunbo, 1O years/ans.

Q7, Gabon Moanda Ngonata Daniel, 19 years/ans.

#8. Malawi Machinga Justin James Blomba, 21 years/ans-

h9. Gabon Bakoumba Pascoline Mamba, C.E.S. Bakoumba

50. Ghana Accra Marvin Kwame Larbin Yebon, Ridge Church School,
10 years/ans.

51. Kenya Nairobi Rose Muthoni Gitonga, Kilimani Prim. School,
11 years/ans.

52. Ghana Accra Nana Yao Boadu, 1O years/ans.

53, Senegal Casamance Samba Balde, Lycée Alpha Molo Balde, 15 years/ans.

Sh. Cameroun Loum Padja Guy Merime, C.E.S. de Loum, 16 years/ﬁns-

55. Senegal Damaguene Ndeye Cheik Fall, 12 years/ans.

56, Senegal M'Bour Youssapha Leye, Ecole de M'Bour I 17'yea1'8/an8

57, Zambia Mufulira Albert Mofya, 21 years/ans.

88. Sierra Leone Segbwema Musa Kanneh, Meth. School;

59: Ghana Accra Belinda Boye, Ridge Church School, 11 years/335‘

 

 

 

4 /'

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

NO. COUNTRY TOUR 'NAME OF WINNER/AGE

60. Egypt Haram—Giza Azza Mohamed Hegazy, 14 years/ans.

61. Egypt Alexandria Egman'Kamal Gebril, E.G.C. Campus Caesar,
12 years/ans.

62. Burkina Faso Banfora Servadogo Gesele, College Ste. ThéréSe, 11 years/
ans.

65. EThe Gambia Banjul Ebrima B. Sanneh, "Rabbit" Kindness Club of

f Africa.

64. Ethiopia Dembi Dollo- Sisay Tekle.

65. Kenya Ngi%%8§a Chadwick Omondi, Makongeni Old Prim. School,
14 years/ans.

'66. Ethiopia Addis Ababa Mesfin Teshome, 16 yearS/ans.

67. Burundi Bujumbura Kanani Edward, 18 years/ans.

68. Ghana Accra Victoria Abebressb, Ridge Church School, 1” years,
ans.

69. Burundi Bujumbura Manirahiza Emmanuel, E081e Normale de Kiremba,
19 years/ans.

70. Malawi Malinana Patricia Easy Filimon, "Tortoise" Kindness Club

Dedza of Africa, 18 years/ans.

71. Mauritania Hodh Charghi M'Hamed ould Dah Ould Leg-Nech,,Ecole de Nema

72. Malagasy Antananarivo Ramanalinarivo Niriniaina Josiane, 12 years/ans.

73. Mali Bamako Kone Tatoumata, EcBle Nationale d'Administration,
20 years/ans.

7h. Ghana Accra Thomas Marshall Brewleidge Church Sch001

75- Mauritius St. Paul Nasreen Meerun, 1A yearsfens.

Phoenix

76. Mauritius Quatre—BornesLNitin Sungker, 10 years/ans.

77. Ghana Elmina Augustine Abban, D.K Prim. School.

_78. Tunisie Ksour Essej Ben Kamela Raoudha, 1A years/ans.

79. Tanzania Tanga Jay J. Patel, 13 years/ans.

80. Gabon Port-Gentil Mensah Elie, 19 years/ans.

81. Ghana Cape Coast Laurence Honny, Univ. Prim. School, 12 yearS/ans.

82. Ghana Accra Kwama Ankrah, Kaneshie First Girls Middle School,
13 years/ans.

85- Algérie Batna Badlaoud Lynda, Ec8le Fondamentale Si-Ali Sou-
ahi.

84. Ghana Accra Kwabera Ofosu Mensah, 9 years/ans.

85- Benin Aidjedo Duc Mehouenou Louis Tranguilin, 18 yearS/éns-

86. Burundi Bujumbura Niyonkuru Charles, EcBle Normale de Kiremba,

' 20 years/ans.

87. Tunisie Hamman Sousa Ben Hassen Nabil, EcBle Primaire, 16 years/ens.

88. Niger Niamey Aminatou Maidagi, 17 years/ans.

89-' Tunisie Beja Ayari Soufiane, Ec. Primaire, 11 yearS/anso

90. Senegal Diourbel Sowa Kebe, Ec81e Keur Yelli, 13 years/ans.

 




 

 

 

NO. COUNTRY TOWN NAME OF WINNER/AGE.

91. Kenya Mombasa Angela Jacqueline Klasunna, 12 years/ans.

92. Rép.Centrafr. Bangui M'Bassinga Gatiana, EcUle St. Francois, 11 years/
ans.

93. Ghana Nkawkaw Hyarkoah Mercy, 16 years/ans.

94. Ghana ACcra Eric Bonsi, 18 years/ans.

95. Botswana Gaborone Claudette e Lopham, 15 years/ans.

96. Uganda Kampala Polly Athieno, 18 years/ans.

 

 

 

 

 

¥¥ﬂ¥11¥¥##4;»Cvﬁttttltttvtvvccttr4vtv

 

 

LIST OF SCHOOLS AND KIND E LU 9 WI I ‘3‘
AN OVERALL - AWARD A";
. ‘ " £53.?

 

 

 

 

COUNTRY TOWN NAME OF SCHOOL/KINDNESS CLUB

Burkina Faso Banfora College Ste Therese

Burundi Gitega "NIGHTINGALE" KINDNESS CLUB OF AFRICA

Burundi Bujumbura E.N. de Kiremba

Centr.Afr.Rep. Bangui EcOle St. Francois

Egypt Alexandria E.G.C Camp Caesar

Gabon Bakoumba C.E S. Bakoumba

Gabon Port-Gentil LYcEe d'Etat

Gabon Mounana Ec81e Cath. Ste. Barbe.

The Gambia Banjul "RABBIT" KINDNESS CLUB OF AFRICA

Ghana Pepease-Kwahu Pepease Gath. Jun. Sec. School/ "ELEPHANT"
KINDNESS CLUB OF AFRICA.

Ghana Accra Ridge Church School

Ghana Peki Peki Training College/”CAT" KINDNESS CLUB
OF AFRICA

Ghana Achimoto-Accra St. John's Grammar School

Ghana - New Tafo-Akim Crig. Primary School/"PIGLETS" KINDNESS
CLUB OF AFRICA

Ghana Kaneshie-Accra Kaneshie Meth. Girls' School

Ghana Assin-Foso Foso Day See» School.

Ghana Agona-Swedru Cath. Prim. School.

Malawi Malilana Dedza Mtendere Juniprate/"TORTOISE" KINDNESS
CLUB OF AFRICA.

MAROC Nador Lycée E1 Khattabi

‘MAROC Tetouan College Babelokla

Nigeria Owerri "ZEBRA" KINDNESS CLUB OF AFRICA

Rwanda Kigali Groupe Scolaire de Zaza/"SWALLOWS OF THE
GREAT LAKE” KINDNESS CLUB OF AFRICA.

Rwanda Kigali EcOle Prim. (Girls) Zaza/"THE NIGHTINGALEJ
OF THE THOUSAND HILLS" KINDNESS CLUB OF
AFRICA.

Rwanda Gitarama E081e Notre Dame de Lourdes Byiamane

Senegal Thies C.E s. Idrissa Diop

Senegal Joal C.E.S Lamine Senghor

Senegal Dakar C E.S. Amadou Traware

Senegal Oussouye/Casamance College Joseph Faye.

Senegal M'BOU1 Kaigl EC‘Ole de M'Boul KaEI par l'Idee d8 Mbacke-

T030 Aneho C.E G Aveve, Prefecture des Lacs

Togo . Lome C.E.G de Nyekonakpoe

Tun}3}e Beja Ecble Primaire Rue Victor Hugo. 6

TunISIe La Chebba E081e Rue Ahmed Tlili.

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

“:i=l============l
LIST OF NON—CLASSIFIED SCHOOLS AND KINDNESS CLUBS

“
[ALGERIaz Ec81e Fondamentale Hassan Adjatii-Setif, Setif. GEM Kara Mostefa Abdel-
kader, Mostaganemi; Ecﬁle Fondamentale Ibn Badis, @uarslaa EcSle Fondamentale
Fatima El-Rahmania, gin Temouchent; EcSle Fondamentale Ouakaf, El—Sebti-Oum,
El-Bougﬁi; EcBle Fondamentale Si-Ali Souahi, Batna; Ee81e Fondamentale Mobarek
El—Mili, EEEEEE; Ec81e Fondamentale Diar-el-Chikh, El-Hafnaoui, Guelma;

IEEEEE: Club de la Bonté ”Le Pigeon", Bohicon; C.E M.G. Kandi; E081e de Base, Do-
oudo. ——

 

 

 

 

 

[BURKINA FASO? Lycée Provincial de Gaouo, Gaouo; Lycée Technique de Ouaga, Ouagangr
.393; Lche P. Zinda, Ouagadougou; Lycée Municipale de Ouagadougou, Quagadougou;
Lycée Municipale, pro Dioulasso; Kycée National de Jeunes Filles, Ouagadougou;
M.D.F. C.E.T. Ouagadougou; Lycee Bogodogo. Ouagadougou; Lycée de Gaoua, Gaoua;
Lycée Marien, Ouagadou 03; College Ste. Therese, Banfora.

lBOTSWANA: Gaborone Sec. School, Gaborone.

BURUNDI: E.F I. de Gitega, EiESEE; hcée de Bururi, Bujumbura; E.T.w. KAmenge,
Bugumbuia; Athenée de Gitega, Gitega; Ec81e Normale de l‘Etat, Bujumbuga;

Ec le Primaire do Nyamugari II, Bujumbura; EcBle des Travaux Publiques, gﬁtega;
E.F.I. Mugeratﬂuﬂgra; College de Saint-ESprit, guiumbura; E.N. Rusengo, Ruzigi;
E.F.I. de Bukaye, Bulumbura; Séminaire de Mugera, Eitega; Athenée Secondaire de
Bujumbura, EEJEEEEEE; College Notre Dame, Gitegg; E.F.I. de Kibimba, Egiggygag;
E.F.I. dc Nyakabiga, Bujumbura; College de atana, Bujumbura; College Don Bosco,
Ngozi; College de Muramvya, Muramlxa; Lycée Clarté Notre-Dame de Bujumbura,
Bujumbura; E.N.F. de Gitega, Gitega. Ec6le de Kiremba Bujumbura;

l§A§HE§QE: Lycéc de Guider, Guider; E.N.I Maroua; CES de Loum, Loum° CES,\TiEne{g;
EC le Maternelle, d'Okola (Lekie5; ECO, Yaounde; F.L.S H. Universite de Yaounde,

Yaoundg; St. Francis College Fiango, KumS§?--_

[3§g. CENTRAFR.: ECBle Baya Dombia, Bangui; CEG de Bambari, Bambari; Lycée Marie
’Jeanno Caron, Bangui; Lycée d’Etat ESE Rapides, Bangui; Ec81e Yakiti Sica II,
Banrui; Ecalo Koudoukou Filles, Bangui; Lycee Technique de Bangui, Bangui;

EcSle Fatima Garcons I, Bangui; Lycee de Boy-Rabe, Bangui; Ec81e Paroisse Saint-
Michel, Bangui; EcBle Koudoukou Garcons II, EEEEEE; Club de la Bonté La Colombe,

.1221-

 

 

 

 

 

IEGYPTli
ALEXA_ <IA: El Amir LOulou School, Hadack Raas Eltin School, El Mersad Prep.School,
Has El Tin school, Fatma El Zahraa School, Elnaseria School, Taher Beij School,
Vaad Zaghlool School, Ismael Sabrij Prim. School, Kassim Amin Prim. School,
Omar Makram School.
ASNIUTZEI Sayeda Eisha School, Mosha School, Dernaka Prep. School, Bahethet El
badia School.
CAIRO: Mostafa Moshorafo School, Al Makrizij School,§_ Oct. Prep. School, Kassim
ﬁmin Sec. School, El Mabrizi Kangwage School, El Fagala Prep.School, El Malorizi
Language School, El Makirzij School, El Obour Prep. School, El Zaher School,
Kaueur Amion School, Shagarak El Dor School, El Mabezizij School Heliopolis,
Abou El Ella Prep School, El Fotoug El Estania School, Ibn Khaldou School, Amar~
Eb Yauocr School, El Tabairy Prep School, Ibn Khaldoun School, El Zahir Comm.
Vec. School;
igggz Mohamed Hafes School, El Sabah Commerc. Sec. School, Old Prep. School for Boys
El Canal Morning School.

LIUBIA: El Khank School.

 

 

. ﬁefaay Sec. School. .

TOUKH: Prep. School for Girls. ‘3‘

TIIIOPI : DEMBI DOLLO-WOLLEGA: Bethel Evangelical Sec. School. A”
Addie—Ababa: Menelik II Compreh. Sec. School. I I?

Makoukou: Lycée d'Etat , - ' I I
Port Gentil: Beale Cath. Abbé Yoya, Lycee d'Etat, EcBle St. Louis, Lycee d Etat de

P03.

7

 




(Cont'd) - List of non-classified schools and Kindness Clubs; A a

3
“GABON” Okondja: C.E.S. d'Okondja, Francevill_e_: Ec‘Ble d'Akou. by,
HE GAMBIA: St. Edward's Sec. Techn. School, "Rabbit" Kindness Club of Africa,

Banju_.

‘GHANA:

ACC Oreilly Sec. School, Kaneshie Girls' Middle School,.St. Theresas Prep.
School, Assoc. hﬂern. School, Ringroad East Middle School, Aquinas Sec. School,
Kwashieman Ang. Middle School,

ABETIFI-KWAHU: Abetifi Training College.

AGONA ASHANTI: Agona S.D.A Sec. School; AGQUA SWEDRU: Meth.Midd1e School, Meth.
Prim.School. ASESEWA: Asesewa Roman Cath. Middle School, L/A Middle School,

Akro Prim. School Presbyt. Middle School. ACHIMOTA: Business College.

AKIM ODA: Anglican Middle "A", Presbyt. Mid. Boys School. AKUSE: Presbyt. Prim.
School. AKROPONG—AKWAPIM: Okuapemman Sec. School. ANYINAM: Roman Cath. Continuation
Middle School. ASSIN-NSUTA: Community Day Sec. School. CAPE COAST: Mfantsipim
School, Holy Child School, St. Monicas Girls School, Wesley Girls Prim. School,
Meth. Middle School, Abura Ahmadiyya Middle School, Ola Girls Boarding, Universi—
ty Prim. School. ELMINA: D/C Middle School A, l/C Prim. School, Bantu D/C Prim.
School. HOHOE: R.C. Boys Middle School. ELMIRA: Amisano Catholic Primary School.
JINIJNI BEREKUM: Ferentaa D/C Middle School. KUKURANTUMI AKIM: "Lion" Kindness
Club of Africa. KIBI: Methodist Middle School. KOFORIDUA: Presbyt.Middle "E",
Presbyt. Primary "A", Anglian Prim. "C", Meth. Middle MiXed "B", Meth. Middle
Boys "B", Presbyt. Middle Boys "D", Anglican Middle Boys "B", Neth. Middle Girls
"A", Meth. Middle Girls "B". KPONG: Krobo State College Infants.
MANPOWE-ASHANTI: Aniawpong Sec. School. MPRAESO: Atibie Meth. Middle "A”,
Ahmadiyya Middle School. Meth. Mpraeso Middle School. NKAWKAW: Ahmadiya Middle
School, Nsuta L. A. Middle School, Abepotia L. A Middle School,

NKWATIA:§WAHU: anatia L.A. Middle School. ODUMASE/KROBO: Reverend Ago Memorial
Preparatory School, Odumase Anglican Middle School, L.A. Primary School.

 

_§ALTPOND: Mfantsiman Girls Secondary School. SOMANYA: Presbyt. Middle School for
Girls, Presbyt. Middle School for Boys. WAIVVR: WA Secondary School,
HO v53: HO Polytechnical Inst. ‘

: SUNA-MIGORI: Migori T. College, KERUGOYA KRINYAGA: Mugumo Prim.School,
NAIROBI: Makongeni Old Prim. School, Westlands Prim. School, Umoya I Prim.
School, Visa Oshwal Girls' Sec. School, Uthiru Sec. School, Kilimani Prim. School.
MERU: Tharaka Sec. School. ELDORET: Rift Valley Techn. School, KAKAMEGA: Budonga
Prim. School. BUTULA: Bubuma P. School, NAMBACHA: Chbwysi Pr. School. WEBUYE:
Kivaywa Sec. School.

IMALAWI.

KARONGA: Chaminade Sec. School. LILONGHE: Lilongwe School for Health Sciences,
Likumi Boys' Sec. School. ZOMBA: Zomba Cath. School; MZUZU: Mzuzu T.T. College.
MZIMBA: Mzimba Sec. School. MANGOCHI: Mangochi Sec. School. ’

[MALIz
BAMAKO: EcBle Normale Supérieure, EcBle Nationale d' Administration, EcBle Natio-

nale d'Ingénieurs.

lMAROC:

OUDJA: Club de la Bonté "Le Chameau", TETOUAN: Collése
Babelokla.

'MAURETANIE:

HODH THARGHI: EcBle de Nema.

 

IMAURITIUS:

PA L SES: Pamplemousses High School. VACQAS: Dr. Maurice Cure. PORT LOUIS:
Trinity College, RIVIERE SECHE: New Educational College. BEAU BASSIJ: 3. Kennedy
College. QUARTIER MILITAIRE3 Camp Thorel School. BLACK RIVER: Richelieu th.
School. ROSE BELLE: Rose Belle South th School. PHOENIK: Aleemiah College.

 

8

 

 




 

(Cont'd) - List of non-classified schools and Kindness Clubs.

 

CHEMIN GRENIER: Notre Dame du Mont Carmel. ‘3
INIGER: . J 8
NIAMEYzClub de la Bonté "Le Guepard". 5 by»

'NIGEREE:
MALALI KADUNA: Fed. Governm. College. PLATEAU STATE: Theological Seminary.
OﬁAJIZEGBEﬁK7OGUTA: Comm. Sec. School. IFAKO-AGAGE: African Church Grammar
School. ‘ '

‘%WA§§A:

A GUGU: Institut St. Cyprien, Institut de Kibogora, Institut John Wesloy
de Kibogora; E.N.P. de Nyamasheke, Ec81e Normale Primaire de Mibilizi. '
Groupe Scolaire de Gihundwe. GITARAMA: Pt. Seminaire St. Leon Kabgayi,
EcBle Notre Dame de Lourdes. Ecﬁle des Sciences, CHM Byimana, ENT Shyogwe.
KIGALI:

, Groupe Scolaire Notre Dame de

Citeaux, Groupe Scolaire St. Andre. KIBUYE: EcBle de Droit et d'ﬁdninistration,
Ecale Agricole et Forestiere de Nyamishaba, ENP de Birambo, ENT de Kibuye.
EEEAMBA: Ecole Economique de Muramba.

ISEEEGAL:
BAMBEY:C.E.S. Diery Fall; DAKAR: Lycée Thierno Saidon Nouron Tall. Ecole Normale
Superieure.Lycée J.F. Kennedy. DIOURBEL: EcBle Mission Catholique, EcSle Algor
Dioum, Ecﬁle Keur Yelli, EcBle Elementaire Publique de Grand-Diourbel.
HANN: C.E.S. KAOLAcg:_Ec61e de Nagane, College Pie XII, College Privé Elaoji
Omar Fall, Ecgle Elementaire de Sara, C.E.S. Amadou Dugay Cledor5 Ndiaye,
Ec81e Dialegne, EcBle Herman Gmeiner.'
KEBEMBER: Ecele Mor Madjiguene Kebe, C.E.S. Nacodou Fall, KELLE: Beale de Kelle.
KOLDA: Lycée Alpha Molo Balde, Ecole III de Kolda, LOUGA: Lycee Malick Sall.
M'BOUR: EcBle Demba Diop, C.E.S. de MBour, E0819 De Djilakh, tale de MBour I
NDANDE: E081e Dakhar Ngogne. ECFISQUE: C.E.S. de Santhiaba, Lycée Abdoulaye'
éadji? SAINT-LOUIS: Lycée Charles de Gaulle, Pryhanée Militaire Charles N'Tcho-
rere, Ecgle N'dar Toutes Filles, THIES: Lycée Malick Sall, EoBle Aynina Fall,
Boole Diakhao Appl., C.E.S. Mamadou_ﬁiaw, E081e Gite Lami Centre, EcBle Djibril
Diaw, Lycée El Hadj Malick Sy, E081e Publique de‘Takhikao, EcGle Elementaire
Mixte de s.o.M., EcBle Primaire de la Base aeriemme, TIVAOUANEzECBle Elementaire
de Pekesse. ZIGUINCHOR: C.E.M.T. de Ziguinchor. '—

ISIERRA LEONEzv .
EGBWEMA: Meth. Pilot School, FREETOWN: Sierra Leone Grammar School.

lTANZANIA: MALANGALI IRINGA: Malangali Sec. School, PONGWE TANCA: Pongwe Annex

Prim. School, EEIKA-KATI: Lyakirim Sec. School.

ITOGO:

RGBODRAGO: C.E.G. d'Agbodrago, AMLAME: C.E.G. Patatoukou, C.E.G. d'Agadji, ,
AﬁEHO: College Protestant. ANIE: C.E.G. Elavagnon Est/Mono. ATAKPAME:C.E.G.

de Agbonou, College St. Albert, C.E.G. de Deme, C.E.G. d'Agbonou, C.E.G. de
Datcha, ENS C.E.G.; DAPAONGZTONE: C.E.G de Bombouaka. LOMEzUniversité de Benin,
E.E.G. BAK, C.E.G. de Zalive, C.E.G. de Sanguera. EXEKONAKPOE: C.E.G. de Nyekonak-
poe. NOTSE: C.E.G. DE erlle. VOGAN: C.E.G. de Hahotoi, C.E.G. Akoumape,

X2; C.E.G. de Hahotoe. ’

lTUNISIE:

IZAMBIA:

LUSAKA: Chibolya Prim. School, Luangwa Sec. School, University of Zambia.
KABWE: Nkrumah Teachers' College. MUMBA: Chabota School Kaputula. MUFULIRA:
"The only White Impala" Kindness Club of Africa. KABOMPO: Kabompo Sec. School.

 

HAMMAN SOUSSE: Ecﬁle Primaire.

 

-0-

 




 

J 3
BEST RECORD'EW 439’

Our readers have learnt from the previous Kindness Magazine-Spirit Inter-
national (No.§22 the names of those Kindness Clubs in Africa, which have
been selected as the best of the year 1985 (in order of merit).

Guided by the MANUAL OF PRACTICAL KINDNESS as well as by listening to their
own inspiration, the Clubs prepared their own kindness programmeS. Even if
different of composition, they always express an awareness of the duty to
respect and defend ALL THAT HAS LIFE !

(Many Kindness Clubs also participated in useful campaigns organised by
local national authorities during 1985).

"PELICAN" Kindness Club of Afr'c Soroti, Uganda) has been awarded "THE
I 9 5", because of its manifold activities and its well
balanced choice of actions, for the benefit of

human beings

animals

maintaining good citizenship

conservation of nature.

follow a few examples of the kind actions carried out by members of
the four best Clubs:

“PELICAN“Kindness Club of Africa, Soroti (Uganda)

Some members:

- helped a lame man to carry his tomatoes to the market for sale (A);

- loosend the rope from a goat's neck; gave rest to a tired ox; helped an
overloaded donkey; took an abandoned puppey as a pet (B);

- called for peace by self prepared posters (C); .

- appealed to charcoal dealers with self prepared posters; to plant 4 sap-
lings before cutting one tree (a local newspaper gave publicity to this
appeal); called for a stop to killing eagles and crows; planted flowers
around the House of the Destitute as well as in the garden of PELICAN
Kindness Club, fertilizing them with organic manure (D).

. _ 1'
'DOVE‘ Kindness Club of Africa, Ippy, Central African Republic M

Some members:

- protected a man without relatives from being jeered at (A);

- advised a young boy not to throw stones at a sleeping dog; decied to go
and play only after having fed their dog and cat (B);
separated children gathering in the football field for a fight,explaining
to them that life is already hard enough without their quarrelS;
concession in the early morning (C);

- prevented children from cutting the legs of a heron (D).

'RABBIT"Kindness Club of Africa, Banggl (the Gambia)

Some members:
- visited disabled people in town and cooked a meal for a man, free
of charge (A);
separated two fighting donkeys, thereafter fed and watered them (B);
organised a clean-up campaign in town (C);
prevented schoolboys from throwing stones at lizards and birds;
have also buried some dead animals (D).

”THE SWALLOWS OF THE GREAT LAKES”Kindness Club of Africa.Kig§;i {Blindaz

Some members:
- gave three matches to a mentally disturbed woman for lighting her pipe (A);
— prevented a fight between a dog and a cat;saved a blind dog from drowning(B)
- cleaned up broken bottles on a road; cleared a fallen tree from a road (C);
- prevented children from hitting and crushing a toad (D).'

[Many other Clubs did excellent work alfo. . C 0
All Clubs did their very best 2 l M

10

 




  

 

MINUTES
Second Meeting of the International Programs Subcommittee
Georgetown University Board of Regents
April 15, 1986

The second meeting of the International Programs Subcommitee of the Board
of Regents was held in the Office of International Programs on April 15, 1986
from 3-5pm. In attendance were Robert Fuisz, Maurice Sonnenberg, Caryl
Bernstein and William Cressey. Greg Stahl also joined the meeting in
progress.

The Committee reaffirmed support for the two programs which had
previously been proposed and which are outlined in the minutes of the first
meeting. In addition there was considerable discussion of a third project
which might fall under the domain of this Subcommittee. Namely, International
Development for Faculty Endowment. The need for endowed chairs and other
forms of faculty endowment was recognized by this Subcommittee. In the
context of the International Programs Subcommittee's work, presumably,
development efforts would be directed towards faculty endowment of two
types: visiting professors from overseas, and faculty members in departments
which are related to international or intercultural education. We discussed
various possible development strategies:

1. Funds might be sought to create an endowment for visiting professors. If
each professor were brought here for one semester only, then a considerably
smaller endowment than the usual $1 million would be required to support
this activity.

2. We discusssed the possibility of creating an endowment which would be
sufficient to cover the costs of one course (perhaps in the neighborhood of
$300,000).

3. We discussed the possibility of soliciting donations toward a $1 million
endowment and if the funds obtained were significantly less than $1
million, then a possible strategy would be to set the monies aside in a
special fund and allow them to accumulate through interest earnings and
capital gains until the $1 million figure had been reached.

It was agreed that these three programs would be presented to the full

Board of Regents for their consideration. A short written description of each
program will be prepared and sent to each member of the Board of Regents.

WWCzllf

 

 

 

 




John F. KuIIherg
President

America‘s First Humane Society

25 April 1986

President Ronald Reagan
The White House
Washington, D. C.

Dear President Reagan:

After the successful 1985 effort that was put together by
Congress and concerned humanitarians nationwide to strengthen the
Animal Welfare Act through a Congressional adoption-of the
laboratory animal amendment sponsored by Senator Dole,
Congressman Brown and others, I am appalled at the news that a
zero budget for America's most important and now strengthened
animal protective law has been proposed by the Office of
Management and Budget.

You often use quotes to underscore important themes in many of
your presentations. A good quote for serious reflection now is
"The best way to evaluate a nation's moral fiber is to examine
how it treats its animals". A Presidential budget that
eliminates all protection for defenseless animals is a
Presidential budget that negates moral integrity.

You have shown in the past that you do care about animals.
Perhaps you care enough to bargain a small fraction of the cost
of one new missile for funds to show that there is, after all,
moral integrity extending to all creatures in the United States.

Please, do what you can to rectify a tragic recommendation:
America must not turn its back on its defenseless animals.

Sincerely, 7
./,

58 / ”7’ i} ’2:
: L, 7/ ,/
I“John F. Knilberg //”’f’/

I

THE AMERICAN SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRbELTY TO ANIMAIS
441E331 92nd Street 0 Newl‘ork, NY. 10128 0 (212) 876-7700

 




John F. Kullbcrg

rasiden!

America’s Firs: Humane Society

25 April 1986

The Hon. Caspar Weinberger
Secretary of Defense
Washington, D. C.

Dear Secretary Weinberger:

After the successful 1985 effort that was put together by

~Congress and concerned humanitarians nationwide to strengthen the

Animal Welfare Act through a Congressional adoption of the
laboratory animal amendment sponsored by Senator Dole,
Congressman Brown and others, I am appalled at the news that a
zero budget for America's most important and now strengthened
animal protective law has been proposed by the Office of
Management and Budget.

The President often uses quotes to underscore important themes in
many of his presentations. A good quote for serious reflection
now is "The best way to evaluate a nation's moral fiber is to
examine how it treats its animals". A Presidential budget that
eliminates all protection for defenseless animals is a
Presidential budget that negates moral integrity.

You have shown in the past that you do care about animals.
Perhaps you care enough to bargain a small fraction of the cost
of one new missile for funds to show that there is, after all,
moral integrity extending to all creatures in the United States.

Please, do what you can to rectify a tragic recommendation:
America must not turn its back on its defenseless animals.

Sincerely,

I

a" \._ J ,- " ’r ‘ , ' I

John F K‘ullbeng/

a I
-\~( I

THE AMERICAN SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY T0 ANIMALS
441 East 92nd Street 0 New York. NY. 10128 0 (212) 876.7700

 




The Armand G.ErpfFund

Trustees NewYork City Ofﬁce
Sue Erpf Van de Bovenkamp, President 640 Park Avenue
Gcrrit P. Van de Bovenkamp,Executive Vice President NewYork NY 10021
Carl L. Kempner, Treasurer ‘
Dnjohn G. Clancy, Secretary

‘ Alan M. Stroock,Esq.
Douglass Campbell
I. l~.-n ry B. Hyde, Esq.
Luger 1). Stone

March 12,

Mr. William K. Reilly
President

World Wildlife Fund/

The Conservation Foundation
1255 Twenty—Third Street, NW
Washington, DC 20037

Dear Bill:

First of_all I want to again reiterate how happy . .
I am on the merger of The World Wildlife Fund and The Conservation

Foundation. I think it is one of the most important events
that has happened in 1985. ' '

I am writing also to express my views as immediately

as possible while‘my ideas are concentrated on the occurrences
of the board meeting. '

.I thought some of the grants, which were discussed
during the Program Meeting, were most innovative. "The Buddhist
Perception of Nature" grant application was certainly one of
the most original and exciting proposals for a means of
communication in the Third World for the purpose of ecological
preservation. Having travelled in the Third World where the
Buddhist religion is extensive, I have a good idea of the
suitability of reaching those peOple in a way they might
understand far better than they would through some identification
with WWF/CF, which is at present time just another foreign
organization not within their reality. Furthermore, I agree,
the grant proposal for Indonesia is of top level priority.
Indeed, many of the grant requests were excellent.

I am disturbed about our discussion on the role of
the Program Committee. It is my belief that a board is the
governing body which should have the final decision on how
monies are to be spent, rather than the administrative faculty,
which is there to present possibilities of expenditures needed

 




The Armand G. ErpfFund

Mr. William K. Reilly
March 12, 1986 - ‘
Page 2

on important programs. The administrative faculty receives

the requests and provides a means of evaluating those programs
which could be possible. However, it would seem to me that

the scientists, the philanthropists and those people in related
fields of ecology, economics, etc. who make up our board should
have the final decision. It is my experience all boards work
in this way. I would think that to be handed a list of
recommendations for approval without any detail whatsoever
would be quite a departure from most other boards. I also
agree with Peter Raven that the materials on a proposal sent

to the board for study should be totally concise so they may
not have to be reviewed a second time. I think all materials
sent to the board should be edited by someone who is good in
English and Spelling. '

In addition, there is something lacking in our
meetings; to be precise, the middle or end results of our
ongoing programs. We seem to vote our recommendations on the
funding of many proposals, however, we do not seem to have
a time in our Program Committee meetings for a report on the
success or the development of our numerous recommendations.
There is an administrative need to explore how to present
results on programs. Perhaps that is what our Program
.Committee would appreciate reviewing, if not the entire board.

 

For example, in our case, the Armand G. Erpf Fund
has funded a fellowship program, the first recipient being
Mark Plotkin. It is my understanding that he is finished with
that particular project. According to our agreement we were
to receive a summary report of the expenses and results of
each and every program we have agreed to fund. In July we
are going to be sending an additional sum of money for a
"fellowship grant". We have no word as to who that recipient
might be. Our board will be anxious to know what possible rec-
ommendations are to be sent for our consideration for the ex-
penditure of this grant and hope you will find time to confer
with us on this matter. It also seems we have never received
the signed original agreement from yOu. Could you please do so
and return it to us? Some time in the very near future we
would very much like to increase our interest in this organiza- ‘
tion but our board would appreciate being more precisely informed"

 




The Armand G. Erpf Fund

Mr. William K. Reilly
March 12, 1986
Page 3

on our present time interests. ‘Perhaps one of the prOposals
we might consider would be "Man and Nature" as part of the
future grant. We are currently reviewing that pr0posal.

I fully understand the World Wildlife Fund and The
Conservation Foundation have been in the turmoils of total
reorganization and upheaval in time and space and administrative

integration, which must be a detriment to a smooth functioning
entity.

.~

Bill, one of the greatest proposals is the National
Groundwater Policy Forum. What issue could be more important
to our survival? BRAV01£

I am looking forward to hearing from you and of
course eventually to our next meeting.

Warmest regards,

Sue Erp an de Bovenkamp
President

cc: Mr. Russell Train
Board of Directors" .
Program Committee Membersw///

Enclosures

‘?§ 39% W§U¢ll°9wgr+ Cjéfﬁ‘
AMC‘Li “5% o GUS 0 GEL“
:1)qu {k Md MHSL‘QOQTLS‘W‘i“ ‘+

V. ZMW.

 




 

[ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE Po. Box 3650 Washington, 0020007

April 4, 1986

Hon. Robert Dole
Majority Leader

U.S. Senate

Washington, DLC. 20210

Dear Bob,

Your wonderful triumph in enacting the Improved Standards for
Laboratory Animals Act deserves the greatest recognition in our
power to give: The Albert Schweitzer Medal of the Animal Welfare
Institute.

We would like to arrange for a distinguished person to present

it to you at a brief ceremony followed by a reception for members
and friends of AWI. If you would select a date, we'll proceed
immediately to issue invitations. If it would fit your schedule,
late afternoon in a Senate Committee room would make it possible for
people to come right after work. I know there are many who would

be thrilled to attend. Letters from all over the country express
great joy that your bill has become the law of the land.

With deep appreciation,
Sincerely,

Christine Stevens
President

 




ANIMAL CARE AND WELFARE,

A STATEWIDE LAW ENFORCEMENT AGENCY

EDWARD BLOTZER. JR.
sooew FOR me PREVENTION OF cauem TON ANIMALS _ ‘ CHEF HUMANE Acgm
THROUGH HUMANE EDUCATION AND LAW ENFORCEMENT , ‘ .1 . .

POST OFFlCE BOX 8257 0 PITTSBURGH, PA 15218
(412) 244-1372

Ban the leghold trap in PA!

H. B. 388, introduced by

Honorable THOMAS J. MURPHY, JR.
* * * a * * * * * * * * * * * * March 1986

T0 MEMBERS OF THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY:

-- ---'--‘ -- “-m ----~‘~ -~---~---

This proposed legislation would ban the leghold trap and end the horrible
suffering of animals caught in these barbaric devices. This legislation

would have an enormous impact upon furbearing animals by banning the sale, use
or possession, import and transportation of leghold traps.

The bill was referred to the Game and Fisheries Committee, which is -
as viewed by this officer ~ pro~hunting and trapping at this time; and
the Committee has refused to release the bill from committee or even to
schedule a hearing on it, unfortunately.

Anti-trapping legislation is supported by all humane persons in the Common-
wealth because of the great abuse to animals unfortunate enough to get
caught into the same. And this legislation will be included as an
amendment to the current Game Recodification bill, HB-2079.

We ask for your support for HB-388 to ban the leghold trap in PA' and we
are asking for your support for the inclusion of this bill as an'amendment
to the Game Recodification bill, HBe2079, when the latter bill comes to
the House floor for a vote in the near future.

We would ask our Legislators / Senators whether he/she intends to support
this amendment.

It is difficult for the undersigned to see any 'sport' in this type of
abuse to animals. Yes, abuse .0. I have seen domestic and wild animals
lose their legs, and other abuses suffered. It is not humane concern
to do anything that would hurt/injure any feeling creature. We find
that most of the hunters we talk to from time to time are AGAINST

the use of the steeljaw trap - and their reason: It is inhumane.

Your support for anti~trapping legislation is appreciated by this SPCA,

and all humane persons in the Comonwealth- THE AGONY OF FUR

Humanely and sincerely,
EDWARD J. BLOTZER, Jr., President,
Chief Humane Agent.

“. . . for those who can not speak for themselves, but depend on
honorable men and women for kindness, mercy and justice . . .”

END THIS OUTRAGE!

 




" SUPPORT

Rep. Thomas J. Murphy’s

bill to ban
the leghold trap
in Pennsylvania

Photo by Dick Randall

PA HR 388*: A State Bill
With National Clout

PA HR 388 represents a legislative effort of national impor-
tance. Not only is Pennsylvania the second largest trapping
state in the country, with strong pro-trapping interests in both
government and private industry, but it is also the home of
Woodstream Corporation, which produces over 90% of the
leghold traps used the US. and Canada. Since the majority of
leghold traps marketed by Woodstream are made at the main
headquarters plant in Lititz, PA, the Murphy bill, by
prohibiting the sale and transport "f leghold traps out of PA
would substantially reduce the a ilability of leghold traps
throughout the US. Furthermore, the bill would completely
abolish the use of leghold traps wit in Piénnsylvania. The bill
provides that: i‘

9 '.
0 No person shall sell, offer for sale“, pobs-ess, import or tran—
sport an animal trap of the steel-jawtgd eghold type.

0 No person shall take or attempt to taka’ny animal by means
of a trap of the steel-jawed leghold type.

0 All persons, groups and organizations...shall surrender any
steel-jawed leghold traps in their possession to any ap-
propriate law enforcement agency.

0 Violation of the above provisions will result in a fine of up to
$250 for a first offense and up to $2500 and/or six months
imprisonment for a third and subsequent offense.

—
*This is the number of Rep. Murphy’s bill as originally in-
troduced. In the course of the legislative process, its number
may change. To avoid confusion, always identify it as “Rep.
Murphy ’s leghold trap bill”

What’s Wrong With
Trapping?

Of all man’s cruel “sports,” trapping is among the least
justifiable. 30-40% of all furs come from trapped animals, and
of these, 87% are trapped in leghold traps, most of which are
produced by Woodstream Corporation, the largest trap
manufacturer in the world. l3-30,000,000 animals are trapped
annually in the US. According to the Dept. of Commerce,
only 1% of all trappers are professionals and only 7% of all
Americans trap, while 79% of the general population, accor-
ding to a Yale University study, opposes the leghold trap. The
US. fur industry as a whole employs less than 5000 people in
663 firms. In Pennsylvania, according to 1982 Bureau of Cen-
sus figures, there is a total of 58 professional hunters and trap-
pers combined, and only 79 people employed in the fur
manufacturing industry! Most of these also work on garments
other than furs, and most of the furs produced come not from
trapped, but from ranch-raised animals. Pennsylvania is the
biggest trapping state, next to Louisiana. The leghold trap has
been banned in more than 60 countries in the world, as well as
in Florida, Rhode Island, New Jersey, and parts of North and
South Carolina, Maryland and Massachussetts.

The suffering caused .by the leghold trap begins with its steel
jaws slamming shut on the animal’s limb. While the initial im-
pact is not the primary source of trap injury, severe bruising
and fractures can and do occur, especially if the trap closes, as
often happens, on the animal’s toes. If the nerves of the limb
are completely crushed, the area immediately below the jaws of
the trap is likey to be numb. The nerves around and above the
area of damage, however, continue to function, and the
resultant pain can be intense.

The main physical damage, however, is caused by the animal’s
struggle to free itself from the trap. The price paid for this
struggle is torn flesh, trap jaws cutting to the bone, broken
bones, dislocated shoulders and severe dental injury from
biting the trap. Numerous studies show that typical trap in-
juries run as high as 40%. Some animals - particularly otters,
ermine, and mink - struggle so violently in the trap that they ac-
tually kill themselves in their attempt to escape. In addition,
trapped animals unable to free themselves face the threat of
freezing to death, dying from thirst or starvation, or being at-
tacked, while helpless, by predators, until the trapper arrives to
dispatch them, often by primitive and barbaric means such as
clubbing, strangulation, or stomping to death. Animals such
as beavers,who are the victims of water-set traps, can take as
long as 20 minutes to drown.

Those animals who do escape often do so by chewing off their
own paws or “wringing off”_their limbs. Studies published in
wildlife management journals record injury rates of this sort at
27/ and higher for many species. An animal which escapes in
this way faces possible death from infection, blood poisoning,
loss of blood, and gangrene. Even if its wounds heal, its
decreased mobility reduces its chance of survival. All the
physical suffering trapped animals endure is compounded,
course, by their psychological distress and trauma, especially in
the case of nursing mothers.

Nor are fur-bearing “target” animals the only victims of trap-
ping. Leghold traps are essentially indiscriminate, capturing
any animal which stumbles into them. Dept. of Interior figures
for the number of “trash” animals caught in 1977, for exam-
ple, are no less than 67%. These “trash” animals include not

 




only other wild animals - even endangered species - but
domestic animals as well.

Trapping also impacts negatively upon human welfare. It
violates the rights and values of the 93% of Americans who do
not trap, most of whom would prefer to see wildlife
unharassed, and their domestic pets not subject to the threat of
trap injury. Trapping is not essential to the economy and in
s'pite of the much-touted claim that fur-bearers are a
“renewable resource,” it actually takes more total energy to
produce a “real” than a fake fur. Finally, the promotion of
trapping among the young encourages the development of
callous attitudes toward animals, and reinforces an ex-
ploitative, counter-ecological ethic.

What About Disease, etc.?

Trapping advocates would have you believe that trapping is a
sound and humane “wildlife management” tool which preven-
ts overpopulation, disease, crop damage, and habitat destruc-
tion, as well as “saving” trapped animals from starvation! In
fact, precisely the opposite is true. Trapping is an unsound,
ecologically destructive practice, which disrupts predator/ prey
relations and family units, weakens genetic stock and resistance
to disease by taking healthy and unhealthy individuals in-
discriminately, and actually contributes to the problems it
claims to solve by stimulating the birth rate. Ironically, this ef-

‘fect is implicit in game commissions’ principle of Maximum
Sustainable Yield: i.e., the more you kill, the more there are to
kill. The ineffectiveness of trapping as a form of population
and disease control is indicated, conversely, by the fact that in
none of the countries and states where the leghold trap has
been banned has any “epidemic” resulted. The hollowness of
trappers’ claim to the prevention of disease is indicated most
clearly, however, by looking at what animals trappers trap.
The principal carriers of rabies - bats and skunks — are almost
never trapped, while three of the most commonly trapped
species - muskrats, beaver, and nutria - all belong to the rodent
family,,which can carry, but do not transmit rabies to human
beings.

ii

In: a
1 O.

‘3 .

a".

l.
q
in

Photo by Doug Moss

. {my

M

TS U protest at Woodstream, Oct. ’83.

What About Alternatives?

Our preferred alternative to the use of the leghold trap is not to
trap at all. For those who must trap, the most humane method
available is the box trap, of which collapsible versions are
available. Although many trappers maintain that certain fur-
bearers, such as foxes, cannot be trapped in box traps, the
Atlanta Center for Disease Control has used box traps suc-
cessfully to capture foxes for many years. A second alternative
is the recently developed foot-snare trap, such as the
EZYONEM, which should not be confused with the
traditional, strangulation-type snare traps which are as bad, if
not worse, than leghold traps. The new footsnare traps, which
have been developed in the US, Canada, and Sweden, have a
constant tension device so that the plastic loop cannot tighten
beyond a certain point on the animal’s leg. Studies show that
while the capture rates for these traps are comparable to the
leghold trap, the injury rate is vastly lower. Ironically,
following the banning of the leghold trap for certain species in
British Columbia, Canada, Woodstream marketed a version of
the foot-snare trap, which, however, is not available in the
U.S., Instead, Woodstream has offered as an “alternative” the
so-called “soft-catch” trap, i.e., a plastic-lipped leghold trap.
which does little or nothing to eliminate the suffering caused by
the leghold trap.

What About Federal
Legislation?

For eight years, Rep. Clarence Long tried, unsuccessfully, to
get legislation to ban the leghold trap though the federal
legislature. Last year, for the first time, subcommittee
hearings were held on his bill, but the bill did not get onto the
House Floor for a vote. This year a similar bill has been in-
troduced by Rep. Tom Lantos. TSU naturally supports HR
1980, but recognizes at the same time the need for working on
all levels to ban the leghold trap. The likelihood of success on
the state leVel is much greater. Moreover, the federal bill,
unlike the bill recently passed in New Jersey, would not ban
leghold traps outright, but only their interstate commerce and
the commerce of furs from animals trapped in leghold traps.
Unfortunately, once and animal’s fur has been processed, there
is no way of determining whether the animal was trapped in a.
leghold trap. Perhaps most important of all, HR 1809 would
do nothing to stop the use of leghold traps within Pen-
nsylvania, where the majority of the leghold traps are produced
by Woodstream Corporation, and where more animals are
trapped than in any other state except Louisiana.

The Murphy bill, on the other hand, would accomplish vir-
tually everything that the federal bill would, while at the same
time totally eliminating the use of the leghold trap in the
nation’s second biggest trapping state.

 




 

  

/ wad-«u; .., . am: A: .m-s. .....~. “1...... .. .. - . .
I.

1

.

1

“There haven’t been vets on

the ships, there haven’t been
vets in the feed lots, there
haven’t been vets anywhere.”

JOHN AUTY ON LIVE SHEEP EXPORTS

Dr. John Auty, assistant director of
the Commonwealth Department of
Primary Industry’s Australian
Agricultural Health and Quarantine
Service (AA H QS ) has condemned the
high death toll in the live export trade.
Dr. Auty has highlighted the lack of
veterinary care and surveillance available
to these millions of animals and argues
that at least a veterinarian should
accompany each shipment. The Senate
Select Inquiry failed to make this basic
recommendation towards ‘improving
conditions ’ for the sheep and instead
only supported the recent development
of government veterinary ofﬁcers
travelling on about 20 per cent of
voyages

Dr. Auty a veterinarian of high
regard who successfulh campaignedfor
the ban on the use of young ‘calves for
roping in rodeos stated:

One million sheep have died in transit
during the last ﬁve years of live sheep

exports from Australia. There is no need I

for this death toll. This is a new industry.
We are putting animals under new stress
conditions in a new environment with
new problems and we are doing nothing.

To me the greatest'pity is that no one
seems to care. It seems the farmers don’t
care because they are getting more for
their sheep. The industry is insuring the
animals and they seem quite happy for
two and a half per centof their animals 7
to continue to die forever.

You take these sheep to the Middle .

East and they are immediately worth
three times what you paid for them in
Australia. This is an industry of super-
proﬁts and as far as I’m concerned, it is -
time its house was put in order.
Normally if large stock losses started

. Page20 ANlMAl. LIBERATlON The Magazine

afflicting the Australian livestock
industry, the industry would take action
— it would seek the assistance of private
veterinarians and State veterinary
services. The State would open up their
research and deve10pment facilities to
help ﬁnd the cause of the problem.
Observations would be made and
research undertaken to control or
prevent the losses.

The live sheep export industry is being
conducted on the basis of so-called
business secrecy, with a denial of the
ﬂow of information on animal health
and production throughout the whole
industry. This denies the whole basis on
which improved health and production
of animals has been developed over
centuries.

The result is that sickness and death in
this industry continues unabated and will
continue unabated until all the elements
of animal health are brought into play.

What we’ve got in this industry is this:
there are animals sick and dying. If in a
private veterinary practice, an animal is
sick or is dying or is dead and a client
rings with that information, the vet will
say immediately that he will see the
animal, that he will conduct a clinical
investigation on the spot.

But these animals on the ships are sick
and dying and no one knows why No

' ‘ one has done a post-mortem.

There haven’t been vets on the ships, ‘
there haven’t been vets in the feed lots,
there haven’t been vets anywhere.

It’s time vets were utilised on all ships
as recOmmended by AAHQS and the
Australian Veterinary Association.

The Minister for Primary lndustry.
Mr John Kerin is also adamant that
vets should be employed on ships 1n the
live sheep export trade.

 

 

Editors Note
To add to Dr. Auty 5 strong concern
about the live export death toll we must

report the tragic and cruel death of

16 686 sheep 1n July 1985 1n the Persian
Gulf. The sheep died on board the
livestock carrier ‘Fernanda P before
they could be off-loaded. Their deaths
were ofﬁcially blamed on extreme
weather conditions. The temperature at
the time was 360 C and the humidity
87%.

Shortly after this atrocity the New
Zealand Government announced it was
lifting its nine-year ban on exporting live'
sheep. Minister of Agriculture Colin
Moyle claimed the ban was being lifted
to take advantage of every market
opportunity to ease the crisis faced by
farmers.

Live sheep exports were banned in
New Zealand by the National Party ‘
Government in 1976 after opposition
from meat processing workers,
watersiders and animal welfare groups.
They were all outraged at the appalling
conditions of 3 shiploads of ewes upon
arrival in the Middle East.

Mr. Moyle’s actions are connected to
a proposal made by Australian—based
Elders—lXL to ship between 500,000 and
1.000.000 New Zealand sheep to the
Middle East beginning in May 1986.

Readers may recall that Elders—lXL
own Beef City, Australia’s largest grain-
fed beeﬂot. They buy all the grass-fed
cattle to supply hamburgers for all the
MacDonalds outlets in the Australian
and Southeast Asian markets. One of
their subsidiaries controls a major
portion of intensive pig production in
Australia, and they have major holdings
in live export from Australian ports.
Elders are presently being prosecuted by
the South Australian RSPCA for cruelty
after 500 to 1,000 goats died at the ’
Elders Adelaide feedlots in South
Australia.

ACTION -

Write to the New Zealand Minister of
Agriculture and ask him NOT to lift the
ban against live export.

Mr Colin Meyle »

Minister of Agriculture

Parliament House

* Wellington New Zealand

Write to the Australian Minister for
Primary Industry and ask him to BAN
the cruel lixe export trade

' MrJohn Kerin '

Ministe1 for Primary Industry
Parliament House
Canberra ACT 2600.

Dont support ELDERS IXL by buving
any of their products. ,

     

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

PASCO, WA
- BALD
was '35-, .951

I , \
l

JUN 9 1985

503135st

We need protection

from animal

SOme £331 are animal
lovers. I’m a people lover, Con-
,s'equently, I’m thinking of form-

“ing an organization to protect,

people from animal lovers —— es-

pecially from the a ti-vivisec-
‘tionists, those ' ividuals
. opposed to usingaﬁb b0

9.13 .
frag; . research for the benefit of ,

:peOp e (and 'of animals).
Some of the more rabid anti-
"ivivisectionists belong to an orga-
inization called the Animal Liber-
«”ation Front. Once again, the
other day, the members of the
{Animal Liberation Front were
involved in the “rescue” of some
laboratory animals, animals
*‘fused in research to develog de-
‘vices and treatrnents for .l

. spevo‘gle. . 4
ey call it “r$Cuing”.the ani- '

mals. However, in lite ”s0ciety,
“ v-you may be fami iar with the
'practice under its more ordinary
“name, breaking and entering.

The members of the Animal
::Liberation Front are getting pre-
~atty sick and tired of people with
the gall to think they have. a
greater right to life or.,eyeSi ht
{than a laboratOry rat. After’v'al , if
you rifle- experimentally with a
rat’s eyesight, how is ‘it going to
read the membership applica-

g

'ijation Front?

;‘ Sixteen rescuers entered the”

ilniversity of California're-
Search center where they ab-
sconded with 2-9 research
animals from a couple of dozen
laboratories. In‘ addition, they
vandalized computers and tra-
§hed some lab equipment.

'.;~«' But you have to admit, wreck-
ing medical experiments will

certainly show people like those ,

gselfish parents who would actu-
‘ially let laboratory doggies die
merely to find the cure for some
terminal disease afflicting their
child. After all, kids area pain in
the neck and doggies are a joy to
have around, especially if it’s

our doggie. You’ve seen one

'd, you’ve seen them all, but a
doggie or a laboratoryrat can be
. awfully cuddly.

And consider the latest raid on

research for the blind. Frankly it
‘Was at the expense of animals.
Can ou believe a researcher
woul actually tamper with a
laboratory animal’s eyesight
simply so some jerk can read
again? Half the time, you restore
some guy’s eyesight and he’s
just gomg to read smut anyway.
But a laboratory rat, if allowed
to see, wOuld watch the sun set
over the garbage cans.
‘ _’Not only that, but why should
animals have to suffer just so
some old broad can"read her
Bible? Or a letter from her
grandson? If the kid weren’t so
cheap, he’d call her, long dis-
tance.

The Animal Liberation Front
is upset that animals anegetting
-3111 at the expense of people.
But if the Animal Liberation peo-
ple have their way, people will
get hurt at the expense of animal

lovers. ‘ '

lover

 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

ind -
-. Liberation Front and rescue the

ation blank for the Animal Liber- »

 

It is time, we formed the People
Liberation Front, an organiza-
tion of people who will. break into
the headquarters of the Animal

finances, records and other
means by Which animal lovers
wage war on humankind.

’ After all, there are animals
and 'then there are animals.

There are nice doggies who are
. friendly to everyone, and then

there are-insane doggies who at-

tack children., .

. There are-nice, kitties who are

warm companions to their own- '
ersand then there are alley cats

who togple the garbage spread:

ing filt .

There are kindly researchers
who beat their brains out trying
to find a way to reverse blind-
ness and then” there‘are sancti-
monious crackpots who topple
research, spreading ignerance ;
and disease. only a few doggies ‘
are dangerous to people but all
members of the Animal Liber-
ation Front are. '"

After all, the most dangerous
animals of all are neither dog-
gies nor pumas nor wild pigs nor
rattlesnakes. The .most danger-
ous animals of all, next to the
anti-vivisectionists, are the
germs and the viruses.

The sweet little germs and the
cuddly little viruses are also
being rescued from those labo-
ratories by the ’Animal Liber- .
ation Front. They are being

' freed to prey on my favorite ani-

mals — my family and friends.

And on me. I have long been
one of my favorite animals.

Those researchers are the only
liberation front between me and
the viruses and the germs.

But if the members of the Ani-.
mal Liberation Front truly be-
lieve human life should be
sacrificed for animal life, rather

than the other way around, then

shouldn’t they volunteer to take
the place of all those doggies and
rats in all those empty cages?./ i

 




‘ W'IW¥;3
‘ 'LJWI'.
W
_. ".

SENATE OF MARYLAND

ANNAP -
ARHﬂmEXMMAN <3US.MARYLANDZJ4011991 ANNNKms-

TWENTY~FIR$T LEGISLATIVE DISTRICT ROOM 303 JAMES OFFICE BUI
' . LDING
PRINCE GEORGE S COUNTY ANNAF’OUSI MARYLAND 21401-1991
WCE CHMRMAN PHONE: WASH. LINE - 3533141
ECONOMIC AFFAIRS COMMITTEE BALTO- LINE — 841-3141

DISTRICT:
8270 NEw HAMPSHIRE AVENUE
LANGLEY PARK. MARYLAND 20903

HOME
I I 107 MONTGOMERY ROAD
Feb rua ry BELTSVILLE. MARYLAND 20705

Ms. Janet H. Bumb
19520 Beallsville Road
Beallsville, Maryland 20839

Dear Ms. Bumb:

On tuesday my committee had an extensive hearing on Senate
Bill 497; it consumed nearly three hours. We heard from those
in support as well as those in opposition.

To date, we have not voted on the bill but in my talking with
members of the committee, it is my feeling that the bill will fail.
The opponents made a very strong case.

I do thank you for taking the time to write me about how you
feel about this matter.

Arthur Dorman
State Senator

 




.i'im _; -
I .umm .

SENATE OF MARYLAND
ANNAPOLIS. MARYLAND 21401-1991

8. FRANK SHORE ANNAPOLIS:
MONTGOMERY COUNTY ROOM 305. JAMES OFFICE BUILDING
DISTRICT 17 February 18 , 1986 ANNAPOLIS. MARYLAND 21401-1991
COMMITTEE HOME:
ECONOMIC AND EszRONMENTAL AFFAIRS 1 1230 TROY ROAD

ROCKVILLE. MARYLAND 20852
ANNAF’OLIS TOLL FREE 841-3134
WASHINGTON 858-3134

Mrs. Daniel R. Bumb
19520 Beallsville Road
Beallsvile, Maryland 20839

Dear Mrs. Bumb:

Thank you for your recent letter regarding
8.8. 497 which pertains to exotic bird sales.

I appreciate having the benefit of your
views which will be taken into account when this

measure ' before my Committee for a hearing
today.

Sincer-

 




 

 

>4 in
‘ Headquonen

Trevo: H. Scott, FAA I.

M 81M. F. Inst. C M
DIIBC’OI General
Margaret P. Cordemy.
FA-AO , M 8.1M. -r- -
Group Accountam
Tel: 014339-3026

Rogloml OMcu

Colin Plait. M i 8108
Regronat Director.
106 Jermyn Street
London SW1Y GEE
Te! 014410396066

John C Walsh
RGQKMR'H DIf9('fO‘

P O 80:: 190.

29 Pelkms Street.
Bostor Mass 0213!]
U S A.

Tv' “‘77 "\22? 7’0"“

F! K Hilﬁukw:
Regronm “in" In .I
Bush‘wjersham-$1LS‘
4052 8339‘!
SWIYIeIInnri

TN {v3 .1 ‘ .i 1,“,

Section Oﬂlt 0'3

Directors

U, Vi ,L. : pyrﬂhl‘vp ﬂux,

\2
{'3‘ [‘mn'.‘ CHM?!" If."

V: 'r-‘r [4‘11 Camwwnmfu‘y, L,
M: (ﬁrf‘HuHS waj—Hr

Mr», J {‘HI,‘r-.f4<_ {,4 f.

{‘v E Frgﬂvrlvsg'u‘ {Jim/h" $.5-
’ ,

I _ I .
Pw . ””3“!”le

‘ uI ". :
H .’ . 1"

{it}, Ho'vﬂuw '4. l'v,,:v;

Hen/II: ,xL,“

i N (:20: 'n w.

rm 4/ y
,{_/A’

Mr A (3 Y“ ‘5
Mr 114 ﬁrm:
P."‘» A RUN)"; UNI/.1
M: A'Huz! guide U.
P." K.‘ Fm...”

UI' Mu".

.‘uﬁ'k‘lr'l \Ni'nc
. A

f F 'on

I”?

"‘vhh'ﬁ’m" ~

".o'-r1

I'l'y

 

r

 

\ W“. .ppon’

World Society for themﬁrotection ofA nima/s

Société Mondiale pour la Protection des Animaux

WelttierschUtz-_G esel/schaft

WESTERN HEMISPHERE OFFICE 99 PFRKINS ST P 0 BOX 190 BOSTON. MA 02130. (61715227000

TO: Members of the Canadian-American Animal Protection
Working Group
FROM: John Walsh, Regional Director,

DATE: 2 April, 1986
RE: Update/Live Sheep Exports, New Zealand to Mexico

Second Voyage of the "Merino Express"

WSPA

 

 

 

The "Merino Express” docked in Manzanillo Bay on March 24th.
Due to logistical problems with deploying staff from our
regional offices in Colombia, Costa Rica, or Boston to
Manzanillo during Holy Week, it was decided to rely on
information provided by representatives of animal-protec-
tion organizations in Mexico. Unfortunately, because of
extremely tight security, individuals from Mexican animal—
protection organizations were not allowed on the docks.

They did view the unloading from a distance and discuss

the voyage with many individuals involved in the unloading

process.

The "Merino Express” arrived in Manzanillo Bay at 5:30 am;
however, unloading did not begin until 12:30 pm, as there
were delays finding an adequate area for the vessel to
dock. It appears that better ramps and unloading procedures
were used than reported during the first voyage; and
unloading was completed by 8:00 pm on the 24th. A substan-
tial number of animals were loaded into trucks that were
waiting on the docks. According to information received,
15 trailer trucks capable of carrying 360 sheep were
loaded, and nine smaller ”grain trucks" with no cover,
capable of carrying 180 sheep at a time, were also loaded
directly from the ship. They did not have access to food
or water, nor were allowed to rest prior to being loaded
onto the trucks. According to our sources, infirm animals
were also loaded at that time. The distance from
Manzanillo to the major slaughter plant in Mexico City
(Ferreria) is 833 - 921 kilometers, depending on what
route is taken (minimum 518 miles). The trip, according
to sources at the slaughter plant in Mexico City, took a
minimum of 30 hours. Only three large trailer trucks
went to Ferreria during the first several days; and it is
believed that all of the animals were taken to other

 

 

 

 




-2-

feedlots or farms. At least one buyer of the sheep has arranged
for slaughter facilities on his own property, as he explained he
lost a great deal of money with the first shipment of live sheep.

A veterinarian who viewed the animals at the slaughter plant in
Mexico City explained that most of the animals appeared in the
same condition (sunken in stomach areas between ribs and hind
legs) as reported during the first voyage. One death was
reported during transit with at least one truck; and two other
animals had to be immediately destroyed because of their condi—

tion.

47 sheep died on the docks between unloading on March 24th and
the evening of March 27th. New Zealand sources indicate that

481 animals died during the crossing. I have received several
explanations for the high mortality rate during the crossing;
however, these reasons have not yet been confirmed. The ship did
stop in Tahiti again to take on water.

In discussing the matter with animal—protection organizations in

New Zealand, it appears that many safe-guards were taken to assure
that the animals arrived in good health in view of the international
publicity relating to the first voyage and the possibility of an
international boycott of New Zealand lamb based on the high mortality
rate.ihi:spite of all of these safe—guards, the mortality rate

was even higher than the first voyage; and there appears to be

growing support for a boycott of New Zealand lamb in the United
States and Canada. The proposed boycott will be discussed during
the WSPA meetings in Luxembourg at the end of May.

Today I received a telephone call from David Kininmonth, Agricul-
tural Attaché'at the New Zealand Embassy. He explained that New
Zealand Minister of Agriculture, Colin Moyle, announced the suspen-
sion of all future live sheep exports to Mexico until an investi—
gation has been conducted as to the cause of the deaths of the
approximately 1,000 sheep during the first two voyages of the
"Merino Express". I emphasize that the New Zealand government in
the past has announced a ban on the export of live sheep on the
"Merino Express" until it could conform to government standards.
There is now a question as to who is setting the standards in

View of the recent high mortality with the "Merino Express".

Within a few days 75,000 live sheep will be exported from New Zealand

to Saudi Arabia for slaughter.

JW/msl
cc: David Kininmonth, N.Z. Agricultural Attache

Michael O'Sullivan, WSPA Canada
Gerardo Huertas, WSPA Costa Rica
Alvaro-Posada-Salazar, WSPA Colombia
Temple Grandin

Trevor Scott, Director General

Neil Wells, NZ SPCA, Aukland

Ross McLauchlan, Wellington SPCA

Bob Kerridge, Auckland SPCA

 




~ XI/
THOMAS J. MURPHY, MEMBER COMMITTEES
3935 PERRYSVILLE AVENUE p "
PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIA 15214

PHONE: (412) 321-1444 ' I ,_ \W TRANSPORTATION,
(412) 321-1445 " CHAIRMAN, SUB-COMMITTEE ON HIGHWAYS

INSURANCE, SECRETARY
. g CONSERVATION
4059 PENN AVENUE ‘ . . ‘ ‘i PROFESSIONAL LICENSURE
PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIA 15214 ' " DEMOCRATIC POLICY
PHONE: (412) 687-9225

MEMBER,
____. gauge 0f y BEN FRANKLIN PARTNERSHIP BOARD

HOUSE POST OFFICE BOX 173

MAIN CAPITOL BUILDING ~
HARRISBURG, PENNSYLVANIA 17120 COMMONWEALTH OF PENNSYLVANIA
i.

PHONE: (717) 783-8724 HARRISBURG

March 24, 1986

Howard A. Downing
1 129 Termon Avenue
Pittsburgh, PA 15212

Dear Mr. Downing:

A few months ago, you signed a petition circulated by
Frances Downing concerning the welfare Of animals used in re—
search in experimentation. Mrs . Downing forwarded the petition
tO me .

I wanted to let you know that I have contacted Congressmen
and Senators about the federal issue, that is House Bill 1145.
At the same time , on the state level , I have become very involved
in a number of animal welfare issues that I wanted to let you
know about.

First, I have introduced legislation, House Bill 388, that
would forbid the use Of the steel—jawed leghold traps in
Pennsylvania. As you might know, this type of trap is widely
used and causes a great deal Of damage and pain to animals, both
wild and domestic. I expect that the legislation will be voted
on over the next month. While I am not Optimistic that it will
pass because Of heavy lobbying by the trapping and hunting
interests, I do believe that it has begun to raise the issue. It
is important to raise the humane issue.

Second, I have begun to try to draft legislation that would
permit animal welfare Officers to inspect research facilities in
Pennsylvania . Presently , they are forbidden to do such in-
spections and the federal inspections have not been effective in
protecting animals that are used in research.

Finally, I have also drafted legislation that will prohibit
the sale of wild birds in Pennsylvania. As you might know, this
sale Of wild birds has put a number Of species Of birds from
South America and Asia on the endangered Species list. When my
wife and I were in the Peace Corps in South America, we saw what

 




the wholesale capture and shipment of wild birds did to the local
pOpulations. Recently, New YOrk passed legislation to forbid the
sale of'wdld.birds in that state.

If you have other questions about animal welfare, please
don't hesitate to contact.me.

I greatly appreciate your concern and vigilance in this
matter.

Sincerely,

. 7;,ﬂtl’

Rep. Thomas J. Murphy
PA 20th Legislative District

IUNkhms

P.S. —- Enclosed is a recent letter that was reprinted by Animal
Care and welfare that I wrote to a research professor at
the University of Pennsylvania who had.written to me
indicating his support for animal research. I thought
you.would be interested in.my reSponse.

 




3/

This letter is in response to your October 30th letter
concerning a recent controversy over the National Institute of
Health Grants to the University of Pennsylvania Head Injury
Center. I don't quite know whm: prompted your letter but 1 want
to say how insulted I was by it. It is obvious that the National
Institute of Health and the Medical Community have not done a
very good job in policing the use of animals in research,
otherwise the situation at the University of Pennsylvania would
not have happened. I happen to have had the opportunity t. view
the film that were taken in what you characterize as vandalism.
What I saw on those video tapes was nothing short of criminél.

It showed, not animals, but human beings, out of control. It
showed graduate medical students with their girlfriends, showing
off with primates that had already been severely injured. It
showed a completely callous attitude on the part of
"professionals" to primates, the very same professionals that you
indicate would show humanistic concern. Frankly, in my eyes, the
National Institute of Health and the Medical Community have lost
all credibility in regard to their ability to control the use of
animals in medical research.

In your letter you refer to your concern that research
activities at the center will come under congressional control.
I want to inform you that I am working on legislation that will
require any facility receiving state funds, either for research
or for the construction of the facility, will come under the
auspices of state animal welfare inspectors. I understand the
need for medical research. It is obviously critical to the
continuing improvement of the human condition. When that
research goes beyond the ethical and moral consideration that
ought to be given to animals then it demeans not only those who
are doing the research, but all of us in society who might

benefit. That happened at the University of Pennslyvania Head
Injury Center. It has happened at other places in this country
which had received grants from the National Institute of Health.

What angers me so much about your letter is the
characterization of the activities of the individuals who stole
the video tapes from the University of Pennslvania Head Injury
Center as simply vandalization. It seems to me that the true
criminals in this case were those in the Medical Community that
knew of the activities at that center and did nothing to stop it
or report it. We have seen, time and time again, "the old boys
network" protecting those who are in it. I think, in fact, that
is the case at the University of Pennsylvania, has been the case
elsewhere, and the only way to end that is, in effect, to kick
the door in. That is what has happened at the University of
Pennsylvania. The only way to stop that kind of extreme activity
from happening is to provide more openness into the research
activities. Obviously those people who are now responsible for
the research have not done a very good job in protecting the
primates and other animals that are used.

Sincerely,

777V

Rep. Thomas J. Murphy
PA 20th Legislative District

 

 




{v ///'/(7 //’/'/' “1“.

/

r", g." . . '1 / ’1‘; . .
/ J

I
/

=- '~"r " vs‘

I .

‘Nhf 11‘

|;No Lesson To Be Learned In
lestreatment Of Lab Animals

By CAROLYN moss and
' - ‘ NENA mumps

Mine and" the Cattle upon a
oussnd bills or upon the moun-
tains where thousands are. I knew
andsmacquaintedwlthallofthe
Birds of the Mountains, and the wild
snimaisoftheﬂeldareMIneand
arewtih me In my Mlnd.” Psalm
50:10-12 ‘
‘1 A reader’ 5 view .....
‘ Every day in our great nation
there is a horror story unfolding in
fresearch laboratories gall across
America. The! medical, ’cosmetic,
land automobile industries (as well
l as many others) are the major
offenders in ths mass- -produced
1 agony. Helpless animals by the
gmillions are being driven insane,
fbattered, crushed, radiated, poi-
soned, suffocated, starved, blinded,
scalded and mutilated daily in our
country. '

A lot of attention has been given
to a laboratory at the University of
Pennsylvania that has been de-
stroying the brains of baboons and
.others. in the. primate. family for
years at an estimated cost to the
American taxpayer of lB-million
dollars. These animals are sub-
jected 'to having their heads en-
closed in plastic helmets, the head
then positioned in a machine that
gives a blow of up to 1,000 G’s,
then having the helmet chipped off
with a hammer and screwdriver.
These animals, severely brain dam-
aged, are put through various other
experiments and ultimately killed so
the brain can be examined. Why is
this done? Supposedly to better
understand how to treat people who
have suffered head injuries. Over
and over and over again for ‘ 13
years? If they haven't learned all
they need to learn in this length of
time I can only assume that the
', lesson just is not there. However, it
'is my. understanding that now this
laboratory has been closed insofar as
. these experiments .are concerned.

We see pictures and read stories
of a monkey With a gaping hole
where an eye once was,’ cats
;paralyzed by dozens of blows

 

{inﬂicted on exposed spinal cords, ‘

5 'dogs exposed to massive radiation in

l I _ .
l . ,3 ...(r ‘ ' . .v__xl L *‘L-

“For every Beast of the forest is‘

taking notice
address the issue. To this end, Sen.‘
Robert Dole of Kansas and Rep-

order to learn about vomiting pat-
terns to be expected during nuclear
war. pigs burned over their entire
bodies to study reactions to burns
and on and on and on. Day after day
painful, s terrorvtilled day it con-
tinues.

‘ Perhaps you feel that such re-'~
search has produced important

gains. While people continue to
argue whether animals should suffer

, toadvance human “well-being”, a

society that calls itself “civilized"

'cannot continue to stand. by while

continued cruelty becomes the
normal "course of things ("business

'as usual") in laboratories in some of

our most prestigious institutions,
paid for by you, the taxpayer.
Recently the public has begun to

cry but against such brutality, and. .

ﬁnally, the federal government is
and beginning to

George Brown of California are
sponsoring legislation that would
provide some regulation for these
experiments.

The legislation, as proposed in
Senate Bill 1233 and House Reso«
lution 2653, would strengthen the

Animal Welfare Act of 1966 in the

following ways:

---- It would require the prevention
of needless pain to animals used in
experimentation. The current law
leaves a lot to the experimenters.

--- It would mandate the creation
of institutional animal committees at
each test facility to be comprised of

at least one publicmember as well
as a veterinarian and'various facility “

, tories.

. closely" to home, literally.

should be totally eliminated is not
the issue here. No matter which side,»
of that arena of debate and phil- '~
osophy1you take, I would think we..;

can all agree that these helpless
creatures deserve, at the very. least, f
humane treaMent. . , . .. .

..I

_' If you own a pet. keep in mind ,
'that your animal is not immune from '-

the possible agonies of the labora-
Many communities allow.
pound seizure (the practice of re-
quisitioning unclaimed animals from

public ' pounds and shelters for -

experimentation purposes). If your '

pet becomes lost, this could be his

fate. And it can strike even more ‘

Many,“
people make a living selling animals

'to labs, and not often do .they care

where these animals originate ... It
could well be from your very own

1 back yard..

Many laboratories make a prac-4

tice of cutting the vocal cords of '

experimental animals in order to not
hear the screams of pain and terror.
But, ' we can speak out for them.
-Write your Congressional represen-

tatives and urge them to support HR '

2653 and SP 1233. Let us be the
civilized, caring, compassionate
people we like to think that we are-

- and make the misery of the labga

little less intense for millions of
suffering, frightened. Creatures”. A},

staff. These committees would be

._charged with determining whether
guidelines of humane'treatment are 1-
'being followed.

' --- The proposed legislation pro- .

vides for additional

in some
areas of research.

Finally, the legislation would. '

prohibit discrimination against a

worker when that worker reports. '-
possible violations to the authorities.

Whether you feel this kind of
experimentation is necessary or

#4.;

training of ‘
scientists in the humane treatment -
.4 of laboratory animals. One aspect of
this is the further study of the use of ‘
alternatives to animals

l

". ‘ 1
.v". I.-
. 1

.' ..e 1.1-!“ nine

 




"‘7" ‘1 "1‘3"- ‘ .1:1. " ~ ‘ an?" :"kiw' 1“ 1 i " '
-‘ gr: ‘._. 1 .V' g.
{k > ._x N91: 5;)“; g.’ . 1" i
”f. '3’ ‘1 3‘1 2 '..’-'.’L ' .1 ‘
- 1’" a :2: 3 i
i V l .4 a, ‘ . . éI.
‘. . 1 . 71 V»: .13 1‘ .1 x ay
: “J; ' n 1-‘1,’- 1.15;“; ‘ m .. 1 x}

Being old fashioned I would prefer if

that the Doctors doing medical
research do their experiments on an
animal rather than on“ me; or one of
my family. Also, I like'leatherf “in
belts and shoes, and likewise I like
milk cheese, meat. and wool. I am

1 also aware that certain segments of

mankind have lived for thousands of

. years by using animals and animal .
. products. Obviously,“ except to. the

g urbanite do gooders, these animals .
‘ are " killed ‘ prior"

to their being

converted to fur, beef, veal, lamb,

leather, glue, bone meal, and many
other products. .‘Will this bill alter
the way a hawk dispatches a mouse,

the wolf a sick caribou. the cat a

gmo'use? How about the dogs gg and

dog packs that kill sheep and calves
every year?
Giving these ladies their 33 1233

; and HR 2653 would be a mistake. In

1.

“a few years they or their anecessors

Twill probably be picketing the

livestock auction every time you try

. to sell your cull cows, your feeders,
or your sheep at the local auction.

1
I'
l

l

Obviously, I object to this 'gingt'ellec.
tual issue being resolved by using
flagrantly imflama‘tory emotional
rhetoric based on exceptional devia-
tions in animal care. I have personal
knowledge of the reference to “dogs
exposed to radiation’ and f‘pigs

burned over their body ”* :Bb’tli of sweat! any “1W

these are from U. 8. Army Training

Films of 1948- 52 showing results of '

Atomic Tests in the Paciﬁc and in

A Have An'mOI RIghIS Nevada. This information was vital

Gone Too For? N
‘ ' Wytheville, Va. 24382

November 27, 1985

Dear Editor: '

i ' This is a res spouse to No lesson

. To Be learned In Mlstre'atineut 0f.

Lab Animals by Carolyn Krause &
. Nena Phillipps on C- 10 21 Nov 85
g {of your newspaper. *

At ﬁrst glance it' might appear;

5 that it would be totallyghumane to
write our Congressman to support
g. SB 1233 and HR 2653.] would

. suggest that a respOnse to gtheirg.
[emetional request might be counter-‘5-

productive. not because bf what
these bills are but beeause of what
they may lead to'.

_ The American public is now being
deluged by articles in various
newspapers. magazines, and spots
on TV dedicated to “Save The
Animals:H “Don’t Buy Furs," and
“Animals Shouldn’t Be Used For
Medical Experiments." etc, etc. It is
more than obvious‘that this is no
random campaign, that it is inter‘
national in scope, and that millions
upon millions 'of dollars are being
spent on this effort byg-a' highly
organized group utilising sinister

since it was the desire by the
Government to design adequate

g shelters to protect the American 'g"

public from a replay of I-Iiro‘shinaf”
and Nagasaki. To .gpick just the
“dogs” and “pigs’ from th.e

thousands of experiments that were I
conducted some 40 years ago reVeals ‘ ; .
the true hysterical nature of this:

same group and their ins1dious
tactics. By using obsolete material

out of context some well financed
,. clever group is deluding Carolyn, .'_

Nena, and many others into believ-
ing they are following a d1v1ne

drummer when in fact they are

following a well ﬁnanced manipula-

tor. whose thought processes are g._g

totally. removed from reality. g

Before we get off on “Animal
Rights” it would seem that a first
priority should be given to the
human beings on this planet
Consider. for example, that the U. 5.
Government pays $700 for a $7
adjustable wrench, $7.000 for an
airborne coffee pot. and $20. 000 .0001
for a single fighter plane while,
millions of American elderly. disad-
vantaged. or poor people suffer in
silence with few or no advocates to
represent them or their condition.
The Federal Court dockets are full of
cases where people are trying to get
their social security beneﬁts and this

On the same afternoon of your gj
“Misti-camera” article my wife and '

I were 111;:11 Wytheville' supermarket

A- Woman, about 70, accompanied " '2
by a younger female friend or .~_
relative was shopping for her '

groceries. She returned three times ~

to the egg counter and was
obviously calculating ’to see if she,
had enough money to: purchase a

dozen eggs. ,. In;;-f,spitefo_feencourage-g
'ment. from her “friendl she» finally”:

elected not to buy the eggs. How

many times has she, and others

similiarly situated, had this conflict '

. in grocery shopping, payin g her '
insurance, heat, light or medical
' bills? '

Put it another way, how is it that
millions of dollars \are being spent

_ on an ‘ ‘Inte'rnational “Animal ‘ Welfare

Campaign” otter 4 the" TV . and billions
on ~ fl‘Weapon Welfare’ ’~:.

and God knows what else1M .
Perhaps our entire problem could

‘- have been solved by having had the
'recent Summit with the Chinese .--

We understand that they eat their.
dogs and hdnor their "elderly.“

With respect to the quotation of
Psalm 50:10-12 I do recall a
commandment that speaks to "hon- ' g
or ...- father and niotheiiia’sbruteI:‘dt:111’t’r.}>.~ .
.. ” g to dogs, cats,“
pigs. cows, etc “ g
g I don’t mistreat animals“; or. know ‘ ,
anybody who does but I am:- aware of ' -
a society that doesn‘ t give one '
whoop in purgatory about providing .
xminimal support“ and dignity for .,
some of their elderly x

First things first! Why not take .
care of people before you Worry
about their dogs and cats.
Respectfully submitted
‘ W. T. WOHLFORD

.vr .'.~ __1

D'n“:

 

. "while. a A
‘gwoman of obvious character and":
integrity can ’t afford a dozen eggs




,, . s. ..._m..m-—-

EESiiEETBiH.icu It

On Animal Issue

213 Piez Avenue
Newport News, Va. 23601
December 30. 1985

Dear Editor, . ,

Almost without fail,' whenever a
debate arises over the ethical
questions of using animals in
experimentation, those in favor
attempt to discredit the other side
by labeling their opponents . as
“emotional." (See “Have Animal
Rights Gone Too Far?, November
27. W. T. Wohlford).

I, too have,,little patience with
anyone who allwws himself to lose

control of his emotions in a debate,
regardless of the topic. But feelings
themselves are not something to be

ashamed 011-» “they are a Vital and
natural part of each of us. 'It is
therefore unrealistic to expect the
debate about experimentation to be
devoid of emotion (i. e. concern and
compassion), especially when the
victims themselves possess a wide
range of‘ ‘human" emotions.

Animals ixséd hi mm»: Have my
capacity for joy, fear, loVe, embar-
rassment, humor, loyalty, devOtion,
loneliness, depression, reason; sym-
pathy, and compassion. They are
typically much more developed
psychologically than human infants,
children, and the mentally handi-
capped. Any sane individual will
agree that the thought ‘of using
these defenseless people in labora-
tory experiments is horrible beyond
words, yet there are those' who say
it is perfectly acceptable to burn,
shock, starve, blind, crush and.
mutilate other equally sensitive"
beings---simply because they are not
human. ,

If we are ever to become a truly
“civilized’ society, we must begin to
recognize the intelligent and sensi- ‘
tive nature of the other'beings with,
whom we share Our' planet, and
re-examine the philosOphy which
gives us “the right" to put them
through the tortures of Hell in our
laboratories.

Sincerely,

R. O. MADDEN

 




5* ts. , no

t! , .rttt or r; (so

"I . | ;- 43 I..'$ 1. . _-,‘
s...J ‘ ,- .7: f. .iixts. Jr}; lax Lib

Krouse ReSponds
To Wohliord's Letter

‘ll7 Woods Road (Mt)
Newport News. VA 2.3M”)
llcai' liditoi‘:

ln iesponse to the letter of 27
November; W.'l‘. Wohll'ord "llave
Animal Rights (ione Too Far?"

I am terribly sorry that Mr.
Wohll‘oi'd cannot join us in slipport
ol ﬁll l23.l and HR 2b53 regarding
the humane treatment of animals in
the research laboratories across
Attierica. l’utting all personal leeling
aside, hdt‘. Wohll'otd Would have you
believe that these iWo proposed
pit-ices oi legislation would ban
animal research...which just is not
true. \‘Vliat these measures Would do
was thotoughly spelled out in the
lle‘lilii’RlSli article of 2! NUVCHP
bci "No lesson to be learned in
Misticatinetit of lab Animals." 'l‘his
pioposcd legislation would merely
cnsute the humane treatment of
animals thtts being used. Nowhere
dot-s the call arise for a ban. l'm
sully that Mr. Wohtl‘ord misunder-
stood the intent of the. legislation.

I certainly respect anyotuf's right
to lllt'll' oWn opiuiou...and the
llt't'tliilll to voice that opinion. That's
what makes this nation o! ours
great. the point is made tltat Mr.
Wolill'ord would prefer medical
research be done on animals than on
people. Ah! Would that such cxpcti‘
iiu-niaiioii was a guarantee ot a
more healthy human population.
May I point oiit just one. incident in
tlus rcgaid: thalidomide and the
suine llii vaccine both passed salctv
tests on aninials...and both have
resulted in death and deformity. A
lot ol still'et‘ing rcsultcil...botlr hu
man and animal. We. constantly it-ad
ol yet another drug being remowgd
bout the market because of thc ‘sltlt'
ctlc'cts to humans. All o! thcsc
thugs have passed the animal tests.
Natiue is what and who she is. and
the tact remains evident that the
human physiology is unlike. that ol
do other animals.

llttt. Mr. VVttllll'UHl spoke of the
int-dual research May l just give
you two examples not iii the medical
lti ltl. the household pioiluct industry
li"~ts lltt' poison lt‘Vl'l til liltuit is.”
and detergents by ititctttug tlicsc
‘hlllt‘ildllt't'h into the stonmi'hs. oi

~ENTtEllPRlSE~TlthRSDAY, JANUARY

i...” ’ C3 6.32.3 M Ma w a o it»

under the skins, of dogs. rabbits and
calves. This produces vomiting.
diarrhea, convulsions. respiratory
problems and paralysis. No anaes-
thesia or pain killer is given. The
cosmetic industry subjects rabbits to
the notorious Draize test. The
rabbits eyes are filled with drugs.
nail polish remover. hair spray or
shampoo. Rabbits have no tear ducts
so even the natural response of tears
is denied them. The result? (‘orneal
ulcers. hemorrhaging and blindness.

Necessary testing? Not in my
opinion. it isn't. Lucrative? Indeed!

Mr. Wohlford also tells us he
believes. as do I. that we are to
honor our parents as we are taught
by our Christian Bible. May I point
otit Proverbs l2:l(l that tells us a
righteous man regards the life of his
beast?

May I also say that I could not
agree more whole-heartedly with
Mr. Wohll'ord regarding the plight
ol otir nation's elderly. though 1
must admit that I missed the
correlation between that issue and
the legislation about which this
debate began. And. since l speak
from my own personal experience. l
feel the issue perhaps more than

30. 1986

,' ‘
‘ X
“3-.

might have been realized when Mr.
Wohlford's letter of response was
written. My own mother is the
victim of a netiromuscular disorder
that has her physically incapacitated
this day. All of the repetitLous
testing of animals has not even
afforded a name to her disorder.
much less a cause nor a cure. I
would propose to you that the
millions of dollars spent annually to
torment. torture and terrorize help-
less creatures iti the name of science
in research laboratories might much
better be spent to assist our senior
citizens who have given so much to
all of us...spent in the name of
Humanity. rather than in the name
of “research?"

it is not my intent to debate Mr.
Wohlford; his opinion is as much his
right as is mine to me. i would.
however. love to discuss all of this
over a cup of coffee someday!

in closing. may I quote the last
line of Mr. Wohlford’s very eloquent
letter: “Why not take care of people
before you worry about their dogs
and cats?" Well. life is life...a
precious. magical gift lt'otu (iod...to
be respected and treated With the

See Letters A-3

fr Letters

Contlnued From A-2

reverence that it's mystical origins
require...l tind it difficult to sepa-
rate one from another and find all
life a toy. not to bc mistreated and
abused whether iii abuse of our
epidemic abuse of our
children. or the unnecessary. cruel
abuse in otir laboratories of yet

elderly.

other helpless creatures.

I want to leave you with a poem

dear to me:

A man of kindness to his beast is

kind;

llut. brutal actions show a brutal

mind.

Remember. He who made thee.

made the brute:

Who gave thee speech and

reason. formed him mute.

He can't complain...but God's

all seeing eye

lit-holds thy cruelty...(,iod bears

his cry.

lie was designed thy servant. not

thy ilritdge!

Dost thou know that his Creator is

thy judge?
Sincerely.
(‘AROLYN Rl'ilill Klix\ll$l€

--_.-. .

“3‘ ‘v at: .M-_M4 -a....r..m....,

(lawn-arrw-v‘ V~""4Ih «it: - "

a.‘ L- “ﬁvﬁyw -.§f‘ -_-

.~ ‘-'

3F.“

 




 




GAZETTE
w. 5 . 7 U 0
it:

x . m 3;:

Bret 1 19 5
5511.124. ELLE’S

 

The
Country
Vet

’\
.‘l
a)?

by Leonard Kreger. D.V.M.

 

Bullets and Traps
This will be a short column. inten—
tionally 50. Perhaps its brevity will
somehow reinforce two things that
are very important to me as a veteri-
narian . . .Wnd their legs.
During this time ofthe year, every
yeari we deal weekly in both of our
clinics. with a myriad ofbullet and
trap related iﬁniuriuesefrom swollen
feet caused by traps clamped across
them. to severed
limbs resulting from the nail: a
bullet. Often thesr: \a‘zmdm lul
animals. who are 1m: d :iuzirly by
their owners. come hmne \\ ith hard—
ly enough blood to keep them alive.
I Alternatix es. other than amputation
‘ and blood transfusions are rare.
Somehow I doubt that errant f
bullets, intended for deer. have ac-J
cidentally hitvthese animals. I ask
only two things -- please check your t
traps regularly (every 12 hours) as;
required by law, and bring the in-‘
jUred animals to my ofﬁce (without
charge) and/or notify their owners. I
acknowledge the importance of
wrappers (you who are conscien-

and mutilatct'l1

tious) in controlling animal popula-
tions to prevent starvation.

Also. please don’t shoot at cats
and dogs! If you want to target
practice —— call me, and I’ll send you
some targets . .

Next week: Listeriosis (circling
disease? in cows

 

1
.P
i
1
E

 

 




 

 

 

The Couri

er-Journal, Monday morning, September 29, 1986 ‘

 

   
  

 

-B—.4

DAILY NEWS, BOWLlNG GREEN1 KENTUCKY

\x.

THE COURIER-JOURNAL, MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 1986

» I

“ 3 "‘ ‘ -‘ .~ v .»

~‘; , A .' . ,_ he; . . _(,‘

~ . M. ; . . ‘ ‘ . t .
.v N , r.- j . .4 . .L
. 1 5,‘ _ . ‘ ;.
. ,9 t ’ . .-.>‘ ..
a. - - 1 ’ :1]. ‘ , ﬁr
.. ,. w - . _ .. F’ . La
. , w . ~ 1. .,
,_ ' , ‘ ~ ' ‘\ l".
r ..
l x

’i ’ .

.n -,‘

 

 

 

"TUESDAY. SEPTEMBER 30, I986

 

Dog control under fire

COLUMBIA, Ky. (AP) — Columbia's dog control
program has come under fire since dog warden
Minor England shot and killed an unlicensed pet
earlier this year.

The dog’s owner, Norma Tweedy, accused
England oi second-degree cruelty to animals, a
misdemeanor charge that was dismissed this month
in Adair District Court.

The case, however, has raised questions about
England’s methods.
llonnie llertnan, director of the Kentucky Humane

Society, called the city’s approach to dog control.
“barbaric." '

Ms. Herman said Columbia should have a shelter

where dogs can be properly cared for and held for
possible adoption. if a dog goes unclaimed, she said,
drug injection would be a much more humane, less
painful means of death.

- - Columbia pays England $100 a month, in addition
to the $5.43 an hour he earns as the city’s sanitation
supervisor, to take care of strays, dogs in violation
of the city’s leash law, and other dog-related pro-
blems.

Because Adair County is one of about 40 counties

in Kentucky without a state-required animal shelter,
England holds dogs he captures in steel cages in his
backyard.

if the dogs are not claimed in seven days, he

takes them out oi the county, shoots them and

disposes of them in a landfill, said Mayor Charles
Marshall.

A city ordinance allows England to shoot a dog on
the street “it seizure is itnpossibie after diligent ef-
forts have been made."

Ms Tweedy, 43, contends that a 2-year-old child
could have captured her dog, whose name was Fluf-

fy.

The day Fluffy was killed, May 15, the dog had
foilowed'Ms. Tweedy’s son and daughter-indaw a
few blocks down the road to the home of Coy and
Vickie Petty, Ms. Tweedy said. .

Coy Petty said Fluffy had started back to Ms. _
Tweedy's trailer when England came over the hill
in his truck. England got out, shot the dog, and toss-
ed the dead animal in the rear of the truck.

England is “not a person who‘s fitting" to be dog
warden, Ms. Tweedy said between tears. “lie don't
like dogs. He hates them.”

/‘L I /
/ / 1,1)”
.1.” «Ii, ' I
/ , . /
,f
4 ' i r' if; i;
, ’ I" " . ' /
r. i‘ ‘3‘ if, .‘ .'. 5541‘ r‘ . J y 1. -‘ '1.
4d UH?) 13‘s,;(«ii‘ip , ‘* ‘ a», W, .
‘i I It" .3" 4; >5 1 d ,1, " ‘7 ‘ V b
I l i L ‘1‘ 7'. .
7' 1 f ,1
"I. r N «W aw‘ivvxeas;§_.3,r _, ~ :5?
. .' ”-V ‘VI'. 3.
i S ‘(ZﬁI ‘
“

  

 

Itogs death
is creating

controversy
in Columbia

Continued from Page B l

bage cans along Oak Street, that sev-
eral residents had complained of
the dog running loose, and that he
had tried more than once to catch
the dog.

He said he had warned Tweedy i
previously to keep her dogs tied up.
Tweedy, who owns five dogs and
has kept as many as 16, acknowl-
edged the warning.

“I’m going to do my job because
that’s what I’m paid to do,” England
said. “Any time you’ve got a dog
running loose without tags, you’re
breaking the law.” The warden
stressed that he raises and trains
full-blooded fox hounds, “so I ain’t
no dog hater.”

England contended that the Pet-
tys have pushed the case because of
ill feelings between England’s fam‘
fly and the Pettys, who are next-
door neighbors. England charged
Coy Petty with harboring a vicious
dog in December 1984 after Petty's
Doberman pinscher allegedly at-
tacked the warden and another
neighbor. Petty was acquitted, but
Adair District Judge Roger P. Elliott
issued an order that Petty obey the
leash law.

Tweedy filed a criminal com-
plaint against England the day
Fluffy was killed. Thesummons
charged not only that England had
killed her dog, but also that he had
let dogs in his back yard cages
drown during a flood, “in spite of
pleas from neighbors to save them."

England pleaded not guilty on
May 19 and a trial was scheduled
July 24, but was continued until
Sept. 25.

But on Aug. 4, England’s lawyer,
Hunter Durham of Columbia, filed a
motion for dismissal of the case.

Durham put England on the wit-
ness stand during a hearing on the
motion Sept. 8. The prosecutor,
Adair County Attorney Ray Hutchi-
son Jr., cross—examined England,
but did not call any witnesses of his

own.

Judge Elliott dismissed the case,
concluding, based on England’s un-
refuted testimony, that the dog war-
den had acted “pursuant to the city
dog ordinance” and that he had no
duty to jeopardize his own safety to
rescue dogs in a flood.

Tweedy, who said she had been in
District Court earlier in the day
with a friend, protested that she was
not allowed to testify. "Ray Hutchi-
son saw me in the courtroom,” she
said. “All he had to do was tell me,
‘Norma, you’re needed today.’ ”

Elliott said he asked both Durham
and Hutchison if they wanted to put
on more witnesses and both said no.
“I didn’t ask him why he didn’t,”
Elliott said of Hutchlson. “I don’t
make it a habit of asking prosecu-
tors why they do things or don’t do
things."

Hutchison said he didn’t believe
any prosecution witnesses were
needed because “the judge already
knew our position.” He said he mis-
takenly thought, until last week, that
Elliott was ruling on the relevance
of certain evidence at the trial rath-
er than dismissing the case.

Tweedy complained to the City
Council about the shooting of her
dog, but the council, citing her court
case against England, refused to in-
tervene. Tweedy said she rejected
an inquiry from Mayor Marshall
about settling the case.

Marshall, 56, is a strong supporter
of England.

PeOple frequently drop dogs off at
the city limits and the dugs come
into the city in search of food, Mar-
shall said. England has done such a
good job of controlling a potentially
had problem, at low cost, that the
City Council gave him a $25 raise
last February, the mayor said.

“I’m for killing the dogs if we
can’t catch them,” he said. “That’s
hard. But we’ve got to take care of
the problem.”

Asked about the appearance of
shooting a dog on the street and
then tossing it in a garbage compac«
Ztor, Marshall said: “I like dogs as
émuch as anybody else. But 1 don’t
see anything wrong with that.”

in a teltrphone interview, Bonnie
Herman, director of the Kentucky
Humane Sec’eﬁz in Louisville, called

.- the city’s ..pj‘-.d£‘Li: to dog control
“barbaric.” i

Columbia Stir ili’: we a shelter
where dogs can be pioperly cared
for and held for possible adoption,
’she said. If a dog goes unclaimed,
drug injection would be a much
more humane, less painful means of
death, she said.

England, she added, is by exam-
ple teaching children some terrible
lessons about the care and value of

animals. ‘ .
“if they see him shooting dogs,

what’s going to keep them from try-
ing it themselves?” she asked.

The debate is not over. After talko
ing with Elliott and iiutchison on
Thursday, Tweedy signed a new
complaint charging England with
exceeding the authority of his office
in killing dogs. The complaint was
expected to go to Elliott today for
his signature, after which it could he
served on England.

t t i\

i" t, .9 as
mttg S tﬁt‘lcj
is creatthg:
cott‘trovetsy
in Coiumttia

Shooting raises
questions about

warden’s methods

By WILLIAM KEESLER
Staff Writer

COLUMBIA, Ky. --— About dawn
last May 15, Columbia's dog warden,
Minor England, spotted a small, un-
licensed dog running along Oak
Street.
England, 48, who performs the
duties of dog warden in addition to
being the city's sanitation supervi-
sor, got out of the garbage truck he
was driving, aimed a gun at the dog
and shot it.
Then he tossed the dead animal
into the rear of the truck, where it
was compacted with the food, paper
and other refuse collected on his
waste route.
The dog’s owner, Norma Tweedy,
43, accused England of second-
degree cruelty to animals, a misde-
meanor charge that was dismissed
this month in Adair District Court.
The case has raised several tides.

tions about t.in;;land’s methodsrﬁﬁ" “ ‘ ‘

lumbia’s program of dog regulation
and the willingness of city leaders
and the court system to deal with

the issues. '

"They’re giving me the run-
around,” Tweedy said Friday. “I’ve
just been done awful since the 15th
of May.”

Columbia pays England $100 a
month, in addition to the $5.43 an
hour he earns as sanitation supervi-
sor, to take care of strays, dogs in
violation of the city’s leash law and
other dog~related problems.

Because Adair County is among
approximately 40 counties in Keno
tucky without a state-required ani-
mal shelter, England holds dogs he
captures in steel cages in his back
yard.

If the dogs are not claimed in sev-
en days, he takes them out of the
county. shoots them and dispases.-.ol'g
them in a landfill, said Mayor
Charles Marshall.

A city ordinance, however, allows
England to shoot a dog on the street
“it seizure is impossible after dili-
gent efforts have been made.”

A few residents contend that Eng
land doesn’t try very hard to cap
ture the dogs.

“Shooting them is his way of
catching them,” said George Pol-
lard, a machine operator at a local
pump factory who has complained
to city officials about England’s
methods.

Tweedy. a beauty-product sales-
woman who lives in one of Colum-
bia’s poorer neighborhoods, con.
tends that a 2-year-old child could
have captured her dog.

The day it was killed, the 1V?
year—old mixture of poodle and
cocker spaniel named Fluffy had
followed Tweedy's son and daugh-
tcr-in-law a few blocks down the
road to the home of Coy and Vickie
Petty, Tweedy said.

Coy Petty, a disabled roofer, said
Fluffy had started back to 'I'weedy’s
trailer when England came oVer the
hill in his truck.

Petty and England agree for the
most part on what happened. Eng-
land’s version differs in that he said
he shot the dog only once, in a
church yard. Petty said England
shot the dog twice -— first in the
church yard and then, after the ani-
mal began squealing in pain, in the
road.

Tweedy cried while diSCUEL-iil’lg
Fluffy in a recent interview. After
her son and daughter-in-law told her
of the shooting—3.. "I jumped out of
bed and started screaming,” She
slazjd.t“l just couldn’t believe it. I just
I n’ want for an thin' to h' a
to him like that.” y in uppcn
_ England is “not a person who's fit-
ting” to be dog warden, she said.
“He don’t like dogs. He hates them.”

England contends that shooting
the dog was within his authority. He
said he found Fluffy raiding gar-

See DOG’S DEATH
PAGE 4, col. 3, this section

v...

 

 




Volume II, Number 1

January, 1986

v 1 1—1 E H A 121 N E w s

Houston Animal Rights 'ljfgalh, Inc.
A non-profit organi-z’z’i‘fion

Post Office Box 440304

 

From The Editors Desk

 

It is my belief that we have the po—
tential and opportunity to make 1986
a year of great advancement for the
animal rights movement.

It is our responsibility to remem—

ber the animals each day of the year.

Consistency yields results!

Remember that there was a time when
blacks and women were denied equal
rights; and it was the persistence
of the people who fought diligently
for their cause that has guaranteed
their rights today. Because any type
of movement demands an expansion on
society's moral horizons, it is in—
evitable that we will have to spend
inordinate amounts of time and en—
ergy on public education in order to
accomplish our goal of eliminating
all forms of animal abuse. So many
people say in ignorance that animals
do no deserve rights as do humans;
therefore, it is acceptable in their
opinion for animals to be exploited.
This caveman attitude is not only an
insult to our intelligence, but is

a total moral outrage!

Every morning, it is our duty to re~
member the millions of animals that
will unwillingly forfeit their lives
for the "benefit of mankindW We must
convey the truth to the public. The
truth is that billions of our tax
dollars are spent each year on fund-
ing eXperiments that are absolutely
inconclusive and are of no benefit
to mankind. No one needs to know how
a kitten will react if it receives

Houston, Texas 77244

(713) 870-0070

an electric shock each time it app~
roaches its mother. No one needs to
know what will happen if lye is app—
lied to the esophagus of a dog or if
the eyes of a rabbit are seared with
corrosive chemicals. The people of
this country are unaware of the hein-
ous, redundant, useless experiments
that their tax dollar funds every day.
We must speak for the tortured animals
whose only means of protest are their
agonizing cries and the flinging of
their tiny bodies against their cold
wire cages. They have no one but us

to deliver them from their suffering.

HART suggests that all serious animal
rights activists make an effort every
day to help end animal suffering — a
simple letter or phone call could save
an animals life. We have compiled a
list of activities that you can orw
ganize to help bury animal slavery,
along with human slavery, in the
graveyard of the past.

1.Hold bake/garage sales or car washes
to raise money for animal causes.
2.Distribute leaflets and fliers in
schools, churches, shopping malls etc.
(HART will provide materials.)

3.Put anti—fur materials in the pock-
ets of coats in fur salons.

4.Call libraries, schools, kennel/PTA/
rotary clubs and ask if you can set

up an animal issue display or show

a film at their next meeting. (Call
HART for materials.)

5.Call talk shows, newspapers, and
magazines and suggest an animal
protection topic.

 




THE HART NEWS - Volume 11, Number 1

 

The Pound Seigure 'Blues'

 

On December 5, 1985 NBC's Hill
Street Blues aired a segment on the
use of pound animals in research. It
was most definately an accurate
telecast that portrayed what happens
to pound animals that are taken to
medical research institutions. It
was very favorable to our cause.

 

HART has received a copy of a letter.
sent out by Ms. Trull of the Nat'l.
Association for Biomedical Research
asking for people to write NBC tel—
ling them that they disapprove of
the 12/5/85 broadcast. She says,
"It most definately placed this
aspect of animal research in an un—
favorable light, and clearly plan—
ted doubt in the minds of the
public."

It is imperative that we write
letters to counteract the ones that
will be sent by the NABR and other
indignant researchers. Thank the
network for showing the public the
helpless plight of the animals,

and ask them to run the segment

again. Ask the producers if they

could write another show that deals
with the brutality of animal research.

NBC
30 Rockefeller Plaza
New York, New York 10012

MTM Studios (Producers of Hill Street)
4024 Radford Avenue

Studio City, California 91604

 

 

Brookwood Monkey Died Happily?

 

The Brookwood Recovery Center has
put advertisements in local newspap—
ers that has animal rights activists
furious. The ad has a large picture
of an infant monkey. The caption
reads: "If cocaine were free, you'd
probably do exactly what he did."
"He died. After he turned down food,
water, and all the things he loved-—
even sex. He did all he wanted until
he had a seizure and died. This does—

n't just happen to laboratory animals."

January, 1986 Page 2

The ad goes on to brag about its
nationally recognized drug rehab
program.

Please write-Brookwood and tell them
how you disapprove of this revolting
attempt to gain business. Ask them

not to capitalize on the exploitation
of animals.

Brookwood Recovery Center
5638 Medical Center Drive
Katy, Texas 77450

 

Members: Stick It To Randalls

 

Randalls supermarkets are now carrying
glueboards....

Diabolically simple in design, the
glueboard is a cardboard or plastic
coated tray coated with a tacky ad-
hesive. The trap is placed along the
pathway used by rodents. When a mouse
or rat treads on the tray, it is held
fast by the glue and struggles until
it dies. While packaging literature
suggests that glueboard victims die
swiftly from suffocation or heart
attacks, more often, the animal's
ordeal lasts for days. There, mired
in the glue, the animal's nasal pass—
ages, mouth, eyes, and ears become
glued shut. Hair and flesh are torn
from their bodies. As the glueboard
has no way of knowing, often dogs and
cats become stuck.

Please stop by the Randalls in your
area (and other stores as well) to
see if the store is stocking glue-
boards. If so, discuss the matter’
with the store manager, and protest
in writing to the store owners.
Suggest that these instruments of
cruelty be replaced with other methods
such as cage traps which are impris—
oning devices that capture mice alive
and unharmed.

Robert Onstead, Chairman and President
Randalls Food Markets

16000 Barkers Point Lane Suite 200
Houston, Texas 77079—4094

 




 

Bulletin Board

 

Australian Embassy Picket

On January 24, 1986 at 11:45 AM, HA—
RT with international wildlife coal—
itions will be picketting the Austral-
ian Consulate located at 1990 Post,
Oak Blvd., Suite 800. We are protest—
ing Australia's ruthless slaughter

of millions of kangaroos. The dem—
onstration will be over at 12:45 so

we can return to work.

Vegetarian Supper Club of Houston
is having a vegetarian covered dish
dinner at 3901 Case Street (in The
Village). Bring a vegen dish and a
copy of the recipe to share with:
the group. The dinner will be on
February 1, 1986 at 7:00 PM. Call
Kim Bartlett for more information:
789-5491.

HART Members Meeting

 

HART will have its next regular mem-
bership meeting on February 6, 1986
at 7:00 PM at the Jungman Branch Lib-
rary located at 5803 Westheimer. Gary
Franks will give a motivating talk

on getting to know your elected
officials, and if time permits,
posters for the McDonalds picket can
be made. See Y'all ThereI!

McDonalds/Burger King Picket

HART will picket the McDonalds and
Burger King restaurants on Bellaire
at Chimney Rock on February 8, 1986
at 12:00 Noon. "Ronald" and "Burger
Biggie" are two of the leading dest—
royers of South American rainforest—
which produced rain clouds for al—
ready drought—stricken West Africa.
They are also the biggest butchers
in the world.

National Meat Week

National Meat Week is January 26 —
February 6, 1986. This is a good time
to help make the public more aware

of the suffering endured by 3 billion
warm blooded animals that are slaugh—
tered each year for human consumption.

Consider participating in a demonst—

ration or writing letters to the edit—
ors of the Post and Chronicle telling
the true story behind meat production.

 

January, 1986 — Page 3

 

What Can You Do To Help?

 

The Houston Animal Rights Team is a non-profit,
educational and activist group opposed to all forms
of animal oppression and exploitation. We work with
national animal rights organizations, support animal
welfare efforts, and encourage our members to assist
local animal shelters in their important task of caring
for homeless animals. HART is an all-volunteer group
of dedicated individuals determined to bring about an
authentic ANIMAL RIGHTS ENLIGHTENMENT.
Please join us. Working together we can make it happen!

 

Houston Animal Rights Team, Inc.
PO. Box 440304 0 Houston, Texas 77244 0 (713) 870-0070

NAME
ADDRESS

 

 

 

PHONE

 

Enclosed is my tax-deductible donation of:

[1 $15 [1 $20 Cl $25 [:1 $50 El $100 [:1 Other
THANK YOU!

 

The HART News

 

The HART News may be copied, or
quoted if credit is given to The
HART News.

Letters to the editor are invited,
and they will be printed as space
becomes available. Your ideas, comm—
ents, and suggestions to The Houston
Animal Rights Team are also welcome.

Views expressed in The HART News do
not necessarily represent those of
The Houston Animal Rights Team, Inc.

Volunteer Staff:
Ember Atkinson — Editor
Sean Hawkins — Assistant

 

Dr. Mark Gochenour To The Rescue

 

HART members rescued an injured duck

from Westlake Park on January 15, 1986.
The duck was taken to West Houston
Veterinary Medical Associates where
it was discovered that the bird had
a broken humerous. Dr. Gochenour
completed surgical repair of the
wing on Jan., 16 — it was an hour
and a half long surgery. The duck is
now recovering. Thank you letters to
Dr. Gochenour would be very appropriate.
1874 Kirkwood, Houston, 77077.

 




To the people who tied their dog up in front of the grocery store
on Memorial Drive earlier today: YOUR DOG IS DEAD!

She trustingly followed you to the store
Just as she had many times before

You told her that you would be right back, she faithfully remained
But you lied to her, and for that you should be ashamed

Her large brown eyes stared up at each passerby
You never returned, I wonder why?

She was so cute when she was a pup
But now that she is all grown up.

Hours had passed and people started to stare
They wondered "why is she still there?"

As she began to stand her ground
A voice shouts "call the pound"

The little shaggy dog never lost hope
She thought that her family would never leave her tied by a rope

Then two kind people stepped from the crowd
"We're your friends," they were proud

Soon the chain and wire around her neck were Undone
Yet, her battle had only just begun

She fought bravely for her escape
But her captors had control over her fate

Inside a car she was wisked
Certainly, she would never be missed

Through the veterinarian's door.
She had never been here before

Disease ridden from improper care
Even with treatment, the rest of her life would only have been fair

It was then decided to put her to sleep
For she had spent too much time out on the street

New faces surrounded her as a needle was slipped into her vein
She was comfortable, and at last she felt no more pain

Your dog is dead, but don't you despair
You'll get another one, somewhere

Then the vicious cycle will repeat
Only this time, you should be the one left out in the street!

- Sean Hawkins

 




United Action for Animals, lno.

2OSEAST42ndSTREET. (*EWYW, NY 10017

LABORATORY ANIMALS NEED YOUR HELP!

THE PROBLEM

 

Imagine, if you can, 400 different-spine-crushing
experiments, or 700 different heat stress or 950 cold
stress experiments, 550 starvation experiments, 500
forced smoking experiments, 775 experiments on
aggression, and more. From these and'a great many other
such examples, it is not unreasonable to estimate that
much if not most animal experimentation is duplicative
and redundant. ' ,

While our government handsomely supports animal
research, it is tight—fisted in dis(eminating the results of
that research. The National Library of Medicine (NLM),
which is supposed to be our nation's medical library, has
been unable to fulfill its mission over the past 120 years
due to lack of funds. It disseminates only bibliographic
information, sometimes with a brief abstract, on its
computerized facilities. But then serious researchers
must try to find the full article(s). This often involves a
time-consuming, costly, and utterly frustrating search. It is no wonder, then, if
researchers throw up their hands and go ahead with experiments without knowing what
has been done before.

i Blinding - repeated
600 times

The failure of our government to make the results of research available to the
scientific community places a severe burden on the taxpayer and results in the
consumption of overwhelming numbers of laboratory animals in duplicativeand redundant
research.

THE SOLUTION

 

A bill has been introduced in Congress, H. R. 1145, the Information Dissemination
and Research Accountability Act, which is aimed at stopping the widespread duplication
of experiments on live animals. It would do this by establishing a National Center for
Research Accountability which would search the published literature to see whether a
research proposal duplicated experiments done before, so that the duplicative
experiments would not be funded. In addition, it would require the National Library of
Medicine to storg, all biomedical information on videodiscs and distribute the information
to all of the nation's medical libraries, where researchers themselves could readily and
economically find out what experiments had been done before.

WHAT YOU CAN DO

 

H. R. 1145, the Information Dissemination and Research Accountability Act is now
pending in the subcommittee on Health and the Enviroment.

PLEASE WRITE to Representative Henry A. Waxman, Chairman of the Subcommittee
on Health and the Environment of the Committee on Energy and Commerce. URGE him to
hold early hearings on H. R. 1145, the Information Dissemination and Research
Accountability Act. Explain that this bill would save hundreds of millions of tax dollars
now being spent on duplicative research, and would also spare large numbers of animals
from being experimented on. Tell him that the cost of using the modern technologies
called for in the bill should not be considered as an expense, but as a investment aimed
at cutting costs.

Following are the names of the other members of Representative Waxman's
subcommittee. PLEASE WRITE a similar letter to as many of them as you can, especially
to any from your own state. The address of all is House Office Building, Washington,
DC 20515.

Democrats Republicans

James H. Scheuer (NY) William B. Richardson (NM) Edward R. Madigan (lL
Thomas A. Luken (OH Cardiss Collins (IL) WilliamE. Dannemeyer (CA)
Doug Walgren (PA) Jim Bates (CA) Bob Whittaker (KS)
Barbara A. Mikulski (MD) Thomas J. Tauke (IA)
Richard C. Shelby (AL) Donald Ritter (PA)

Ron Wyden (OR) Thomas Bliley, Jr- (VA)
Gerry Sikorski (MN) Michael Bilirakis (FL)
Timothy E- Wirth (CO) Fred J. Eckert (NY)
Mickey Leland (TX) Howard C. Nielson (UT)
James J. Florio (Ml) James T. Broyhill (NC)

 




NEXT, and this is also extremely URGENT, write to your own Representative.
URCE him to co-sponsor H. R. 1145, the Information Dissemination and Research
Accountability Act.

IN THE SENATE

 

Next, we must now work hard for a companion bill in the Senate. PLEASE WRITE to
your TWO Senators. The address of all is Senate Office Building, Washington, DC,
20510. URCE them to introduce a companion bill to H. R. 11145, the Information
Dissemination and Research Accountability Act. Tell them that this important bill now has
at least 56 co-sponsors in the House, and a companion bill is urgently needed in the
Senate. Be sure to explain that H. R. 1145 is not an animal welfare measure. It does not
deal with the treatment of laboratory animals, but rather with the modern, efficient
distribution of the results of experiments already performed to prevent duplicative
research. Ask them to please respond to your request. Promptly send us copies of any) A..-
letters you receive, so that our Washington representative can follow through \
appropriately. -

If you live in a city where either of your two Senators maintains a district office,
you may make an appointment for a personal visit. Ask us for the two major reports we
have prepared, and personally hand them to the Senator. Let us know the name of the
Senator you plan to visit; we will send you the reports immediately. Allow time for
mailing. Don't forget that your Senators, like your Congressman, want to know which
issues concern their constituents.

TO ALL HUMANE ACTIVISTS: In the interest of speed, PLEASE photocopy this
flyer - 50 - 100 - 1,000 - or as many copies as you can. Give a copy to your friends,
neighbors, business associates, fellow students, social or senior citizens clubs, and
anyone else in a position to influence public opinion, and urge them to write in support
of the bill. Set up a table in your area and talk with passers-by. If you would like a
copy of our "Petition to Congress," please ask us fOr a copy. Give a copy of this flyer
to your local newspaper editor and suggest an editorial.

 

;.1. Helplessmocile Bea

[Ins routinely ex-

' pond to lethal radi-
don in Monte
like this at a major
veterinary school.

Monkey's head on-
.eoud in a plaster of
:' Doris “pot" in prep-
‘- action for being
Mod to death
in a: crash tests.

Datum. less Beagles
forced to inhale
cigarette smoke till
any gut lung
cancer.

. Tender loving care?
'ﬁo! Baby chimps
to tricked into
drinking alcohol in
their milk. Some
die in convulsions.

Dog ﬂaunt to be
found alive in
«storm ovens.
Th0 purpose? So
dentist: can ‘study'
death symptoms.
{Many strays requiszl
tioned from anima/
shelters are put to
horrible deaths like
this.)

. Monkey dying of
ortrf‘ teal" ' Iy— indumd
fasmr.

 

 

 

- Q“ 6&ch 743;. ---------- _ -------------------------- ’
MEMBERSHIP APPLICATION

YES! I want to help in your fight against the cruelty of animal experimentation. My membership contribution is
enclosed: please keep me informed of your progress in stopping the atrocities againstlaboratory animals, as well as sugges-
tions as to how i can help.

D Benefactor ............................ 8100 C3 Contributing Member ..................... 810
CI Patron ................................ $50 Cl Active Member .......................... 55
E?- Sustaining Member ...................... $25 [3 Other amount ..................... S

Contributions are deductible for income and estate tax purposes.
United Action for Animals, Inc. 205 E. 42nd Street 0 New York, NV. 10017

 

 




PETITION TO THE SENATE

Ofﬁcial ﬁgures show that almost $14. BILLION of taxpayers' money are
spent annually on animal research and testing by the NIH alone--and there are
6 other major Federal animal-using agencies, as well as a number of sub-agencies.
From a study conducted by United Action for Animals, Inc. , it is not unreasonable
to estimate that much, if not most, of this money is spent on duplicative or redundant
research and testing for the simple reason that biomedical research has yet to
be brought into the Information Age, with the result that there is now no way
researchers can readily and economically find out what has been done before.

Therefore, we, the undersigned, petition you to Sponsor and work for
the passage of a companion bill to H.R. 1145, the Information Dissemination
and Research Accountability Act, which would:

1) Establish a National Center for Research Accountability to con-
duct full searches of past experiments to'prevent the funding of
research proposals involving the use of live animals that duplicate
experiments already performed; and

Require the National Library of Medicine to make the results
of research available in all the nation's medical libraries,

to enable scientists to readily and economically find out what
has been done before.

Address

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

      
      
 
          
     
  
  
   
    
  
  
  
    
   
   
  
  
    
   
 
 
   
   
   
 
  
   
  
  
   
   
   
       
        
      
      
      
     
 
 

 

1985 LEGISLATIVE SESSION SUMMARY

 

 

 

OF ANIMAL LEGISLATION

ANIMAL RESEARCH AB 1620, FARR (D-Monterey)
Sets up the Wild Animal Fund to pay

SB 1405, ROBERTI (D-Hollywood) the costs of enforcing laws governing
Humane officers will have access to the importation, transfer and
research facilities for the purpose possession of wild animals.
of ensuring compliance with all STATUS: 9/25/85-Signed by Governor
applicable state and federal laws. Chapter 943.
STATUS: Two-year bill, Assembly

 

 

Judiciary

AB 2563, LaFOLLETTE (R—Northridge)
AB 1319, BRADLEY (R-Escondido) Appropriates $300,000 from California
Allows humane officers to enter Environmental License Plate Fund for
research laboratories to prevent a grant to the Wildlife Waystation in
cruelty to animals. L.A. County.
STATUS: Two-year bill, Assembly STATUS: 7/26/85-Signed by Governor
water, Parks & Wildlife Chapter 305.

AB 2404, FILANTE (R-San Rafael)
Defines as a crime the interference
with the use of animals in scientific
research. Persons who feloniously
steal, take, carry away laboratory
research animals are guilty of grand

 

ANIMAL PROTECTION

 

SB 718, MCCORQUODALE
(San Jose/Modesto)

 

theft. .
STATUS: Two-year bill, Senate WOEAS-pﬁggldiatgit igyigi ngrtures
Judiciary ma 1 10 y l I u '

or mutilates a living dog or cat, or
who maliciously kills a dog or cat,
is guilty of a felony or misdemeanor,
regardless of whether the dog or cat
is the property of another.

STATUS: Failed passage in Assembly
ways & Means

ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION

 

SB 493, ROBERTI (D-Hollywood)
Authorizes the Director of Fish and
Game to contract with landowners to
preserve and enhance existing

wetlands.

STATUS: Two-year bill, Senate AB 212' HAUSER (D—ganta Rosa)
- - Requires two-year og tags.
A .
ppr0pr1at1ons STATUS: 6/12/85- Signed by Governor

Chapter 72.

 

 

SB 89, MADDY (R-Fresno)

Restricts use of gill and trammel
nets to prevent sea otters from being
trapped in fishermen' s nets.

STATUS: 5/24/85- Signed by Governor

 

AB 1663, CAMPBELL (D-Richmond)
‘ Requires deposits for spaying or
neutering of cats and dogs sold or

 

 

 

 

given away by pounds or shelters.
Chapter 50' STATUS: 9/30/85-Signed by Governor
SB 519, CRAVEN (R—San Diego) Chapter 1290
Would appropriate $300, 000 from the
Environmental License Plate Fund to AB 1310, HERGER (R-Yuba City)
the Department Of Transportation for Provides standards of training for
allocation to the Zoological Society humane officers in animal care and
of San Diego to develop and implement state humane laws.
~o_ a program to reproduce the Least STATUS: 9/25/85-Signed by Governor
V Bell' 5 Vireo, an endangered species. Chapter 993
STATUS: Two-year bill, Assembly 4‘ .
Water, Parks and Wildlife ‘ CONﬂNUHDONpAGE2

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
      

w ‘ , t Senator Dan/id Roberti
’ " ' State Capitol, Room 205
Sacramento, California 95314

   

Lori Snell (916) 445-8390




(.

 

 

PASSAGE OF SB 1405 MEANS NO MORE
KN UDSEN SCANDALS

The President, in his 1986 Budget
message, made two recommendations
regarding inspections for violations
of the Federal Animal Welfare Act:

1. Allocate zero financing for
inspections so there will be
none.

2. The states, industry and humane
groups should take the
reSponsibility for the humane
treatment of animals.

Senator David Roberti
(D-Hollywood) authored SB 1405 in
response to this message. The bill
reconfirms that humane officers do
indeed have access to lawfully
interfere and prevent cruelty to
animals at all places in the state,
including the premises of animal
dealers. SB 1405 would also require
humane officers who inspect research
facilities to complete prescribed
training and pass an examination as a
condition of inspecting those
facilities.

Humane officers would be required
to take a minimum of 24 hours of
training for the protection of
animals under the Federal Animal
Welfare Act to ensure compliance with
all applicable state and federal
laws. The training course would
consist of written material which
could be developed with the
assistance of United States
Department of Agricultural officials,
animal research professionals, and
animal welfare organizations.

The State Humane Association or
its designee would promulgate and
administer the examination. It could
be provided or approved by the Humane

Officer's sponsoring organization.
Inspections conducted by humane
officers of research facilities would
be limited to no more than one
inspection at each facility every 21
days, unless a reasonable cause
exists that the facility is not

complying with applicable state and
federal laws.

Of course, inspections would
always be conducted in a lawful
manner. Humane officers would not be
allowed to interfere with properly
conducted experiments. Section 599C
of the penal code specifically
prohibits this. Humane officers
would not be allowed to carry
firearms in the labs.

SB 1405 was approved by the
Senate during the 1985 legislative
session. In January 1986, it will be
heard in the Assembly Judiciary
Committee.

SB 1405 needs your support! Make
sure that the Knudsen tragedy will
not be repeated. Make your views
known to the Assembly Judiciary
Committee members:

Assemblymembers:

Elihu Harris, Chairman (D—Oakland)
Wayne Grisham, Vice Chairman
(R-Norwalk)

Lloyd Connelly (D-Sacramento)
Jean Duffy (D—Citrus Heights)
Gerald Felando (R-Torrance)
Patrick Johnston (D-Stockton)
Sunny Mojonnier (R-San Diego)
Richard Robinson (D-Garden Grove)
Maxine Waters (D-Los Angeles)
Phillip Wyman (R-Bakersfield)

Address your letters to State
Capitol, Sacramento, California
95814.

 

LEGISLATIVE SUMMARY CONTINUED

MOUNTAIN LIONS

 

SB 76, PRESLEY (D-Riverside)

Requires a fairly comprehensive
biological study of mountain lions in
California before the Department of
Fish and Game would consider any
public hunting.

STATUS: 10/2/85-Vetoed by Governor

 

AB 947, N. WATERS (D-Placerville)
Authorizes the taking of mountain
lions when encountered in act of
injuring or killing livestock if the
owner or agent has depredation
permit.

STATUS: Two-year bill, Senate
Natural Resources & Wildlife

AB 2509, COSTA (D-Fresno)
Extends provisions that declare
mountain lions to be especially

*PPGPEEth.
publiclhﬁianimals not subject to

STATUS. Two—
Year b
water, Parks & wi;;?::7\Assembly

 

 

i

PETS AND PALS BUYS
KNUDSEN KENNELS-OPENS HOME
FOR DOGS AND CATS

Last year, Henry "Bud" Knudsen, a
USDA licensed animal dealer in
Lathrop, California, was charged with
124 counts of cruelty to animals.
Sheriffs deputies discovered 36 dead
dogs and cats and 87 other emaciated
animals on the property. The kennels
were closed in November, 1985. The
humane community was shocked and
saddened by the terrible atrocities
committed against defenseless dogs
and cats.

Pets and Pals is a nationwide
organization devoted to animal
welfare founded by Gladys Sargent, a
well-known humane activist. This
organization recently purchased the
Knudsen Kennels.

The facility has now been
reopened as a home for unwanted
animals. For further information,
contact Pets and Pals.

 

 

 




 

PETS IN FEDERAL HOUSING?
TWO YEARS LATER AND STILL
No GUIDELINES.

Almost two years ago H.R.
authored by Congressman Mario
was passed by COngress. This
provided that the elderly and
handicapped who live in federally
assisted rental housing are entitled
to have pets. H.R. 3959 stated that
no owner or manager of H.U.D. houSing
may prohibit pet ownership or
discriminate against prospective
tenants on the grounds of pet
ownership. .

H.R. 3959 allowed one year for
the Secretary of Housing and Urban
Development and the Secretary of
Agriculture to develop guidelines
that will accommodate pets and still
provide "decent, safe and sanitary
housing for the elderly and the
handicapped." -

Many of you submitted your
comments on the proposed guidelines.
To date, guidelines have yet to be
published.

Senator Roberti argues for
the passage of his SB 1405
on the Senate Floor. SB 1405
would ensure that humane
officers have access to
research labs and the pre-
mises of animal dealers to
prevent cruelty to animals.
The bill passed the Senate
and will be heard in the
Assembly early next year.

3959:
Biaggi,
measure

“I LIVE IN SECTION 8 HOUSING
MAY I HAVE A PET?”

In 1981, Senator David Roberti
(D—Hollywood) authored SB 1047 which
allowed any person over the age of 60
who lived in publicly—owned housing
operated by any public agency or
political subdivision of the state
(meaning state, county or city) may
have up to two pets. This
legislation did allow for the local
housing authority to remove any pet
whose conduct was a nuisance to other
occupants of the housing complex.

Senator Roberti's office
continues to receive inquiries about

 

this legislation. The question most
commonly asked is: "I live in
Section 8 housing, may I have a pet?"
Unfortunately, the answer is no.
Section 8 housing is privately-owned
not publicly-owned. When Senator
Roberti originally introduced the
legislation, it did apply to all
housing. Due to the opposition's
strong lobbying efforts, however,
SB 1047 was amended to apply only to
publicly—owned housing. If you have
any additional questions, please feel
free to contact Senator Roberti's
office.

SENATOR ROBERT] WANTS
TO HEAR FROM YOU

Four years have passed since the
passage of SB 1047. How is the law
working? I am sending a survey to
every housing authority in the state
which will include the following
questions:

1. Do you notify seniors that they
have the right to have pets when
they apply for rental housing
under your authority?

How many units are occupied by
persons with pets?

Do you require any deposit for
pets? If answer is yes, how
much?

Do you have a set of regulations
or guidelines for pet owners? If
answer is yes, please send a

copy.

any problems
of this law,
the next

of this
survey will be published.

If you are aWare of
with the implementation
please let me know. In
newsletter, the results

, accountable.

RESEARCH CENTERS GUILTY .
OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS - FEDERAL
FUNDS CUT OFF

The University of Pennsylvania's
"Head Injury Clinical Research
Center" and the "City of Hope Cancer
Research Center" have recently had
their funding temporarily suspended
by the National Institute of Health
because of their cruel and inhumane
treatment of animals. Both
institutions were guilty of
violations of the Animal Welfare
and NIH animal care regulations.

National media attention has been
focused On these two cases for a very
good reason. The facilities involved
are prestigious research centers that
have received millions of our tax
dollars in research grants from the
National Institute of Health for many
years. In fact, the director of the
NIH has called the University of
Pennsylvania's research center "one
of the best laboratories in the
world-" _ _

The gruesome experiments done on
animals with various levels of brain
damage and the ghoulish behavior of
the researchers who performed it is
shocking. Unfortunately, we don't
know how many other situations exist.
where there is cruelty to animals in
the labs. ,

Hopefully, the temporary cut-off
of these funds will teach those that
would abuse our animal friends a mUch
needed lesson. It is outrageOus that
our tax dollars have been spent in /
such an irresponsible manner. The//
research community should be held /
Research techniques;
must be done carefully and humaneh{.

, /

Act

 

 




 

 

UPDATE ON FEDERAL LEGISLATION
TOIEND CRUELTY TO RESEARCH ANIMALS

Two identical bills, S. 1233 and
HR 2653 introduced by Senator Bob
Dole and Congressman George Brown to
help end the cruelty to research '
animals need our strong support.

This important legislation would
put an end to the needless pain
suffered by animals used in research
experiments. The researchers would
have to take all reasonable steps to
minimize the pain suffered by animals
without interfering in the actual
experiment.

Researchers would have to consult
a veterinarian_in planning any
painful experiment. Scientists would
receive additional training in the~
humane treatment of test animals. In
the past, scientists have been
subject only to peer review in their
treatment of experimental animals.

Institutional animal committees
would be established under this
legislation at each testing facility.
The committees would be comprised of
at least one public member as well as
a veterinarian and various facility
staff. These committees would
determine whether guidelines on
humane animal treatment are being
followed.

SENATE’S 1985 ACCOMPLISHMENTS

A series of 18 reports describing the
1985 legislative accomplishments of
the California State Senate in
various policy areas have just been
published.

These reports cover such topics as:
Contaminated Food and Water, Acid
Rain and Smog, AIDS, Worker Health
and Safety, Toxics,-International
Trade, Fish and Wildlife Protection,
Human Rights, Offshore Oil Develop-
ment, Streetsuand Roads, Child Care,
California Schools, California
Agriculture, Housing, Tax Reform,
Crime, etc.

._ Individual reports are available for
‘f$1.50 or $20.00 for the entire set.

Please make checks payable to State
‘Qf California. To order copies or

Ftceive the complete list of report

gPtles, please contact: Joint
I'Ca lications Office, Box 90, State

(9 tOl Sacramento, CA 95814

Finally, the bills would prohibit
reprisals against a worker when the
worker reports possible legal
violations in animal test research to
the proper authorities. The.
legislation is supported by the
American Physiological Society, the
largest user of research animals.

Please write to members of the
Senate Agriculture, Nutrition and
Forestry COmmittee which are listed
below and urge their support for S.
1233 and HR 2653.

Senators: .

Jesse Helms—Chairman (R-N.Carolina)
Robert Dole (R-Kansas)

Mitch O'Connell (R-Kentucky)
Edward Zorinsky (D-Nebraska)
Richard Lugar (R-Indiana)
Patrick Leahy (D-Vermont)
Thad Cochran (R-Mississippi)
David Pryor (D-Arkansas)
Rudy Boschwitz (R-MinnesOta)
David Boren (D—Oklahoma)
Paula Hawkins (R-Florida)
Alan Dixon (D-Illinois)

Mark Andrews (R—N.Dakota)
Howell Heflin (D-Alabama)
Pete Wilson (R—California)
Tom Harkin (D-Iowa)

John Melcher (D-Montana)

' SENATE REFORMS IMPROVE
LEGISLATIVE PROCESS

’The Legislature establishes the rules

and procedures that govern a bill's
travel through the legislative
process into law. The Senate, in
particular, has been reSponsible fOr

.a series of procedural reforms which

have served to open up the lawmaking
process to the public and to make the*

process more efficient.

The Senate introduced reforms that
forbid conference committees from
"hijacking" bills (introducing
substantial policy changes never
heard by a policy committee), that'
require adequate public notiCe of
when and where conference committees
will be meeting, and that ensure that
legislators are fully informed before
they vote on conference reports.

There was a 25% reduction in the
number of bills sent to conference
committee this year compared to the
end of session in 1983. Clearly the
Senate refOrms resulted in fewer
"hijack" attempts and a more orderly
and open process during the last days
of the legislative session.

 

 

 




