The Ofﬁcial Journal of the League for - I 7, Victoria Street,
Westminster, S.W.1.

the Prohibition of Cruel Sports.
Phone: ABBEY 2824.

VOL. X. No. I. JANUARY, 1936. 2d. MONTH”;;:’2§’:”“"“'“
CONTENTS.
PAGE

9 SOME Tl‘HOi'GHTs ON HARE-(‘OURSIXG.

Vles AND NEWS. By THE EDITOR
BY G. C. \VILTSHIRE

HARE-(,‘(WRSING PROTEST MEETING
AT SOUTHPORT T THEOLOGICAL S’I‘I‘DENTS 1,)R(')TES’J‘

T/le Editor accepts no respomz'éi/z'ty for opinions expressed 2'72 signed articles.

VISCOUN T MORLEY, O.M.—“I am quite sure that the time will come when
people will read of the wanton cruelties which we now inﬂict in Sport with
the same wonder and abhorrence with which we now read of the bloody
orgies of savage tribes and the cruel scenes of the Roman amphitheatre.”

 

 




 

Page Two

 

CRUEL ‘SPO‘RTS

January, I 936

 

 

VIEWS AND NEWS

By The Editor, HENRY B. AMOS.

A Happy New Year!

We wish all our readers, far as well as near.
a very happy New Year; and may 1986 bring our
Cause appreciably nearer to its goal.

Retrospect

1985 has seen many valuable bits of work done
all over the country. Many thousands of leaﬂets
have been distributed; over 40,000 copies of
Cruel Sports have been put into circulation, and
letters galore have been sent by the Secretary and
a host of clever, willing correspondents to local
editors. Thus our Cause has not only been well
dug in, but many new minds have been stirred,
new avenues of opportunity opened, and a de—
ﬁnite advance made all along the line. We must
not, however, rest on our oars, but go on from
strength to strength, and make 1986 register a
still greater advance.

Prospect

' One way in which we can make 1986 ‘The
Best’ so far, is for each member to bring another
member into the fold. Each new member is a
source of untold worth to the movement, for
they are focus points from which to radiate the
truths we stand for. And a live wire, even in
an isolated country district can be a mighty
leaven, for leavening the lump, particularly
through the press.

Waterloo Hare—Coursing

“7 e have made the present number of Cruel
Sports largely a hare-coursing one, because of the
campaign now being waged against that sport in
Liverpool and District. 1986 being the centenary
ofthe Waterloo coursing, it is natural that
the supporters of the meeting should wish to
celebrate it with unusual e'clat. We hope,
therefore, our local friends will keep up the pres-
sure of public exposure against the iniquity and
so help undermine this spirit of ‘easy’ cruelty to
animals of which the Grand National Steeple-
chase is another illustration in the district.

Cowper on Hares.

“ Puss grew familiar, would leap into my
lap, raise himself upon his hinder feet, and
bite the hair from my temples. . . . He
was ill three days, during which time I
nursed him . . And by constant care and try-
ing him with a variety of herbs, restored him to
perfect health. No creature could be more
gateful than my patient after his recovery; a
sentiment which he most signiﬁcantly expres-

sed, by licking my hand . . . It was visible,
from many symptoms which I have not room to
enumerate, that he was. happier in human
society than when shut up with his natural com—
panions. . You will not wonder, Sir, that my
intimate acquaintance with these specimens of
their kind has taught me to hold the sportsman’s
amusement in abhorrence: he little knows what
amiable creatures he persecutes, of what grati-
tude they are capable, how cheerful they are in
their spirits, what enjoyment they have of life,
and that, impressed as they seem with a
peculiar dread of man, it is only because man
gives them peculiar cause for it.”

Habits of Hares

We know that hares are strong swimmers and
that when pressed in pursuit they will occasion-
ally go to ground in a rabbit-hole or some other
opening. Sometimes they have been known to
run along the top of walls when they are being

shunted, and I have heard of them climbing into

gorse bushes. I have never, personally, seen a
hare in a tree. “ Last week, however, there were
two instances of this recorded. The Thorpe
Satchville Beagles ran a hare to a brook and the
followers could not make out what had become
of her till someone saw her lying in the V formed
by the crossing of two tree trunks overhanging
the stream. A few days before this a hare
hunted by the Croft Beagles had sprung into
a hollow tree and so eluded hounds.

The blue hares found in Scotland often go to
ground, but the brown hare rarely does so except
in case of emergency when she ﬁnds it necessary
to adopt unusual tactics to escape.

—J. FAIRFAX-BLAKEBOROUGH,
I/Voroester Journal.

Bound Volumes

Bound Volumes of Cruel Sports for 1985 are-
now ready and copies, including index, can be
obtained from the ofﬁce, 8/0 post free. Separate
copies of the Index 2d. each.

Our New Oﬁiees

We would remind our readers of our new ad—
dress, v1z., '7, Victoria Street, Westminster,

S.W.1.
Fellowship of St. Hubert

Mr. Amos regrets that owing to a severe recur-
rence of his bronchial trouble, he will be unable
to proceed with this project for some weeks; he
will take it up again, however, as soon as he
is well. , 7 '

 

 

 

 

l
i

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

January, I 936

CRUEL SPORTS

 

 

The Arena of the Waterloo Cup Coursing.

HARE-COURSING PRO TEST MEETING .
A T so UTHPORT

A further step in the campaign which is being
organised in Southport and Liverpool with a view
to the suppression of the Waterloo Cup coursing
meeting, was taken at Southport on Thursday,
December 112th, when a meeting to enlist sup-
port was held in the Temperance Institute. The
Rev. W. C. Hall, minister of _,Southport Uni-
tarian Church, presided, and also on the platform
were Mr. Hamilton Fyfe, President of the
League, and Mr. Fredk. Bowman, of Liverpool.

Letters of apology for non-attendance and ex-
pressing sympathy with the movement were re-
ceived from the Rural Dean (Canon W. E.
Harston Morris), who is President of the South-
port branch of the League, Canon Blakeney,
Rev. Dr. Silverstone, Rev. J. B. Clarke, Rev. H.
Garside, Rev. Brian Kingslake, Alderman G. H.
Hibbott, Councillor A. Hughes, Councillor John
Taylor, Mr. Neeshaw and Mr. Price Heywood.

Mr. Hall said the meeting was called by the
recently formed committee for consideration of
the Waterloo Cup coursing. The committee was
formed in Liverpool some weeks ago, at a meet-
ing attended by representatives of Liverpool and
Southport who were for the most part supporters
of the League for the Prohibition of Cruel Sports.
They had sixty members in Southport so far,
and were hoping, as a result of that night’s
meeting, that many others would see their way
to join. The objects of the League were to pro-
hibit fox, hare, deer and otter hunting, badger
digging and rabbit and hare coursing. The work
which was being attempted by the League was a
great humanitarian movement. On this matter
he was neither an optimist nor, he trusted, a
pessimist, but he wanted to say, quite frankly,
that he did not see any prospect of the abolition
of these cruel sports in his lifetime. However,
he wanted to do what he could towards bringing

about their abolition and he. was conﬁdent that
one day the movement would achieve its aim. He
gave his support to the 'movement because he
had an enlarged reverence for life, and all this

cruelty inﬂicted in the name of sport was abhor-
rent to him.

‘ ‘ Brutal ’ ’

Mr. Bowman said anybody who could still
advocate the coursing of live hares as a sport
must be a coward, because there was no doubt
about it it was a brutal form of self-indulgence
which reﬂected greatly on civilisation. The
general body of the public, he felt sure, must be
in favour of the abolition of sports of this kind.
It was simply a matter of having sufﬁcient imag-
ination and intelligence to realise what an animal
felt when it was being coursed. He would be
disappointed if he did not see coursing wiped out
in his lifetime. The nobility and gentry had not.
unfortunately, set a very good lead, 'but he did
not blame them, because they had been reared
in an atmosphere where their imagination had
not been called into play on subjects of this kind.
He regretted that the leading lights of the
ecclesiastical profession did not throw in their
weight with the movement for the abolition of
cruel sports, and also that the R.S.P.C.A. did not
take a very determined attitude in regard to some
of the blood sports, but if the R.S.P.C.A. lent
itself to be swayed one side or the other in
controversy of this kind they were likely to lose
valuable subscribers whose help enabled them to
carry on work in other directions which they
were doing satisfactorily, Clergy, leaders of
social thought, school masters, and others could
do a great deal in support of the movement for
the abolition of cruel sports, and much could be
done by personal and public propaganda.

 




 

Page F our

CRUEL SPORTS

January, I936

 

 

Domestic and Wild Animals

Mr. Hamilton Fyfe said he was determined to
go on living until this cruelty to animals was
abolished. He did not believe in working for
posterity. Posterity had to look after itself.
Here was something which, to him, was an out-
rage, an insult, and an agony, and he was deter-
mined to do everything he possibly could to get
rid of it while he was alive. Next year would be
the centenary of the Waterloo Cup, and this year
was the centenary of the ﬁrst Parliamentary char-
ter for domestic animals. In 1835 there were a
great many people who thought that even if they
sympathised with the sufferings of domestic ani-
mals it would be hopeless to suppose anything
would be done in their lifetime, but Princess
Victoria, who afterwards became Queen Victoria,
and‘ her mother, became patrons of the
R.S.P.C.A., and the Bill was soon passed. “ I
only wish we could get some such support to-day,
because I am sure it would have great effect,”
he said. ‘.‘ We must try to get it. But if we
cannot we must go on. To—day it is a question of
wild animals, and there is no difference between
Wild animals and domestic animals in this con-
nection. We don’t admit you can separate cer-
tain animals and say these are domestic animals
and must not be cruelly ill-treated, and these are
Wild animals and you can do anything you like
to them. There are many people who think it
would be horrible to ill-treat a pet dog or cat,
and yet who like hunting the fox, deer and otter,
and unspeakable forms of cruelty to what they
call wild animals. We have to clear the public
mind of the view that there is some difference
between domestic and wild animals.”

We were all one great family, and all life was
one, said Mr. Fyfe, and it seemed to him that if
they set any limit, if they did not admit that all
animals were entitled to their sympathy and care
and tried to draw a distinction between some of
them, then they were denying the fundamental
religious principle that they should do unto
others as they would be done by. If they could
make everybody feel what hunted and tortured
animals must feel, surely they would never hunt
and torture animals again. The imagination
must be stirred.

Bishop of Exeter

He saw the other day that the Bishop of
Exeter had been defending stag-hunting because,
he said, the stag died such a merciful
death—it died from exhaustion. “ I thought
that was a bit strong from a Bishop,”
said Mr. Fyfe. “ I wonder if those girls who
have been found on the local moors would have
enjoyed dying from exhaustion? Does he think
that these girls enjoyed the exhaustion from

which they nearly died? \Vould he defend
coursing, I wonder? He forgets altogether, it
seems to me, the element of torture that is
added to the exhaustion. It is nonsense to say
exhaustion is a merciful and painless death. It
is not.” Mr. Fyfe said he had seen refugees and
soldiers dying from exhaustion, and it was not a
painless or a merciful death. To speak as the
Bishop did was to go against all the facts of
life, facts which even a bishop ought to know.
That a public man could take such a line on
this question of cruelty to animals and sport
which was brutal and savage seemed to him to
show that they were still at a low ebb so far as

. some of their public men were concerned.

Bishop of Liverpool

“ I wish we could have got the Bishop of
Liverpool into this movement,” said Mr. Fyfe.
“ I have written to him myself several times. I
thought I had got him to give his support, but
for some reason he wriggled away. I don’t
know why, but he did. I cannot understand
that any man who, like Dr. David, has been at
the head of a great school, can countenance such
bestiality as torturing animals to death in a most
hideous way. Surely he must have read Burns’
lines on seeing a wounded hare limp by, and he
must have been moved by those lines. And
yet whether he disapproves of it or not, I don’t
know. He will not come out into the open and
say so.” It seemed to him, he said, that the
real reason why the law did not act was that the
people who were the patrons of the sport and
kept it up were very highly placed. The law,
after all, only reﬂected public opinion. If they
could get public opinion in favour of any particu-
lar change, then the law was very quick to follow.
“ I believe we have public opinion on'our side,
if only it were vocal, and we must give it voice,”
he said. “ We must stir the conscience of the
nation, and call forth those qualities of decency
and kindliness which are so strong in the human
character if they are directly appealed to.”

At question-time, a member of the audience
said cock-ﬁghting had been made illegal, and
therefore the law should take steps to put down
coursing and deer hunting.

Mr. Fyfe said the reason why cock-ﬁghting
was stopped was that cocks and hens were domes-
tic birds and came under the charter passed by
Parliament.

A ladyasked how could they expect people to
care about animals when they fed their children
and themselves on meat killed cruelly.

Mr. Fyfe said he did not think they should
mix up the two things.

Another lady said they found many people who
went in for these sports were moneyed people
who wanted to get into Society.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

A

 

. ‘
f‘k M, .n. _4 .__ . _ ‘m‘. s. « _..~‘_\_P.~\_—M.M’wm A

 

‘L January, I 936

CRUEL SPORTS

Page Seven

 

Local Activities: Leeds

The Leeds Branch held a very successful

.jumble Sale in the York Road Baptist School-

room on Saturday, 23rd Nov. The sum realised
was over £8. This is obviously a good way of
raising money and other branches would do well

to copy.

Many thanks are due to all the people who
contributed goods to the Sale and to all the
helpers who so readily gave their service.

Especially to the Rev. J. Dow, the resident

minister and his wife, who sacriﬁced some ” of
their precious leisure in order to help. M.B.

S. W. Branch

A Shep Campaign was held in Torquay from
’October 27th to November 2nd. Much interest
was taken in the window display, and large
quantities of literature were distributed, both at
the shop and by a sandwichboard man, who car—
ried striking posters. We are very grateful to
the following members for their assistance at

the shop :—Mrs. Gather, Mrs. Gagg, Mrs.
Jobey, and Miss K. Anthony.
The Hon. Secretary would like to remind

members that he is still glad to receive silver
papers, paste and cream tubes, etc. Cigarette
cards in a perfectly clean condition may also be
sent. Please send to W. P. H. Warner, 78,
Union Street, Torquay.

Stag—Hunting

Sin—The late Mr. Judd, the popular Rich—
mond writ-er, was a Somerset man born and
bred, and knew all there was to know about
both sides of stag hunting. He once told me
stag hunting was one of the reasons why he left
his native county, and that on many occasions
he had seen the hunted stag or gentle hind pass
quite close to him in the broiling heat, with
starting eyes and lolling tongue, and that the
knowledge that he could do nothing to protect
the helpless animal was maddening. On several
occasions while on long rambles he had come
across a stag at bay, and a more sickening sight
for anyone with a taste other than that of a
slaughterman’s could not be imagined.

.There is no earthly reason in spite of eX-’
cuses——why the stags of Somerset and Devon
should not be kept down in exactly the same
way as they are in the Highlands. Over 4,000
stags were shot by expert shots in one season
in a part of the Highlands, and death came to
these animals as death ought to come, suddenly
and unguessed, without terror and long hours of
mental and physical torture.

——D0RA NISBITT KEMP in Richmond Times,

 

_

Grouse Shooting

“ Much the best bag of grouse I heard of for
the season,” writes ‘ Observer ’ in Horse and
Hound, on Nov. 29th, was at Broromhead, where,
in one day’s shoot, 1852 birds were shot.

In three days, with seven guns, at Chrishall
Grove, nr Royston, 1550 partridges were shot.

“ The huge bags of pre-war days have died
out,” adds “Observer,” but mentions “ 3937
pheasants shot one December day in 1918, at
Hall Barn in Bucks.”

Deer~Stalking

“ The glory of deer-stalking has departed.
Forests which formerly let for £3,000 to £5,000
a year are lucky if they ﬁnd tenants at a third
of this rent . . . .

“The happy possessor of a ﬁrst-class grouse
moor or a really good salmon river has few
qualms, for these desirable adjuncts to a rich
man’s pleasures are certain to be occupied. The
demand exceeds the supply.

“ The great majority of those who stalk nowa-
days are out for blood. . . The decline in pOpu-
larity of deer-stalking has certainly militated
against the production of good heads. There is

no getting away from the fact that there are

too many deer.”
—L0RD BELPER in The Field.

Cruel Sports: ‘A Secret Vice’

Mr. Gerald Heard in his recent book entitled
“These Hurrying Years,” remarks that cruel
sports are getting less and less popular. “ The
thought of smashing up small animals for
pleasure is becoming increasingly disliked and
disapproved. Indeed, it seems that in another
decade, unless a war should come to toughen
people, only the elderly will really enjoy a battue,
and they under the pressure of this new public
opinion will realise it is a secret vice which they
will be ashamed openly to confess.”

The Afterttzought I

Tony is the ﬁve-year-old son of an African big
game hunter, and from his earliest days has been
familiar with the sight of lion pelts, leopard and
monkey‘skins, elephant tusks, rhino horns and
hippo teeth.

His mother had the sad task of announcing
the death of one of his playmates.

“ Tony,” she told him, “you know Juma’s
boy you play with. Poor little chap; he’s dead.”

“ Oh, Mummy, and I did like him so,” was
the young hunter’s comment, followed immedi-
ately by the afterthought: “ What have you done
with his skin?” '

—PETER SIMPLE, in the Morning Post.

 




 

 

 

 

Page Eight C R U E L S P O R TS January, 1936-

The League For The Prohibition Of Cruel Sports

7, Victoria Street, Westminster, S.W.l. Phone: Abbey 2824,

 

 

President—HAMILTON FYFE, Hon. Treasurer—CANON F. L. DONALDSON. Secretary—J. C. SHARP.

LADY CLARE ANNESLEY. Vice-Presidents— E. ROSSLYN MITCHELL, Esq. -
SIR HERBERT BARKER. HENRY W, NEVINSON, Esq,
Miss MARJORIE BOWEN, F.R.Soc.Lit. G, P. GOOCH, D.Litt BEVERLEY NICHOLS, Esq.
ALD, M. CONWAY, J.P. GERALD GOULD, Esq, EDEN PHILLPOTS, Esq.
(Ex-Pres., Nat. U11. Tchers) DONALD MAcLEOD, Esq. PERCY A. SCHOLEs, Esq.
CANON DONALDSON (Westminster). (Ex-Mbr. Brit, Olympic CL). DAME SYBIL THORNDIKE,

BRANCHES (Hon. Secretaries): WORKING GROUPS (Hon. Dist. Representatives):

BRISTOL: Mrs. Trewman, 9, Sion Hill, Clifton, Bristol, 8. BOLTON: Mrs, Margaret Tripp, Heaton Vicarage, Bolton.
HASTINGS: Mrs. Coleman, 11, Laton Road, Hastings. CARLISLE: Mr. George T. Miller, 4, Cumwhinton Road,
LEEDS: Mrs. D. M. Beaumont, “The Valkyrie,” Allerton Harraby, Carlisle.

Drive, East Keswick, Nr. Leeds. COLOHESTER: Mr. E. Womack. 188, North Station Road,
SOUTH PORT: Miss M. A. Cummins, 46, Alma Road, Birk- L‘olchester.

dale, Southport. HOVE: Miss M. M. Reynolds, 42, Osborn Villas, Hove, 3.
SOUTH-WESTERN: Mrs. Crosse, Rokeby, Pennsylvania, IPSWICH: Miss R. M. King, 45, Oxford Road, Ipswich.

Exeter. Mr. W. P. H. Warner, ’73, Union Street, NOTTINGHAM: Miss F. M. Roper, Belvoir Mount, Sneinton,

Torquay ' Nottingham

WHAT THE LEAGUE STANDS FOR{

THE PRINCIPLE. That it is iniquitous to inﬂict suffering upon sentient animals for
the purposes of sport—“ pleasure ”I

IT CONDEMNS fox, deer, hare, and otter-hunting, badger-digging, and rabbit and
hare-coursing. (See leaflet “ Blood Sports Condemned.” )

IT DEMANDS the substitution for the animal of a Drag, which gives all the glamour
of a run with hounds without the cruelty. ( See leaﬂet “ Drag—hunting.”)

IT PROTESTS against the "; blooding ” of children, and demands its cessation ( See
leaﬂet “ Blooded.” )

AN OFFER. A copy of the journal and leaﬂets sent free to any address on application
We shall also be glad to send a speaker to any Literary Society, Church Group, etc., if
out-of-pocket expenses are paid. Lantern slides and lecture notes are also available.

’

 

4..

 

 

JOIN THE LEAGUE

I hereby declare that I am opposed to blood sports of every kind and desire to join the
League for the Prohibition of Cruel Sports.

I enclose berewith‘k ............................................

State l
Whether . ....................................... . ...................................................................... 0...
MR, Mrs.) ‘ ............................................................................................................... ...
01‘ Miss. ........................................................................... . ..

*5/— per annum includes Ofﬁcial Journal monthl',. Without theJournal, 2/6, Life Members £5.
P051? this form, With remittance, to Secretary, L.P.C.S., ”.7 ViC‘oru Sfreet, Westminster, S. W.I

FORM OF BEQUEST.

To‘ those who may be inclined to become Benefactors by will to the League, the following Form is
respectfully suggested:—

I bequeath unto the Society called THE LEAGUE FOR THE PROHIBITION OF CRUEL Sponrs, London, the sum
of .............................. free of Legacy Duty. And I direct that the same shall be paid to the
Treasurer for the time being of such last-mentioned Society.

By virtue of _the Act. of Victoria. cap. 26, all Wills and Codicils must be in writing, signed by the Testator, and
attested by two Witnesses In the presence of the Testator and of each other.

 

 

 

 

BRIGHTON—Ideal Boarding Establishment, pure BEAUTIFUL BUTTERMEREV-National Trust’s supreme
generous varied diet, Bedrooms h. and 6. water, gas Lakeland purchase. Victoria Golf Hotel modernised
ﬁres, good garden. central, near Sea and Downs, inclu- and enlarged. Extens1ve woodland grounds. Bathing
sive terms—Tariff: Mr. and Mrs. Massingham, 16 and pool. Many rare birds and plants. Photographer’s
17, Norfolk Terrace. paradise.

WANTED, STAMPS in use before 1880.__Sewell. 51, Lan- HUMANE FUR! (fabric).__104, George Street, W.1., Wel-
caster Gate, London. beck 7257.

Small prepaid advertisements are inserted at the rate of 1%d. per word per insertion or 2/6d_. per line for twelve
insertions and they should be received at the oﬂice by the 15th of the month for the followrng month s issue.

 

 

Published by the LEAGUE FOR THE PROHIBITION OF CRUEL SPORTS. at 7, Victoria Street, Westminster, S.W.l; and Printed
for them by NUNEATON NEWSPAPERS. LTD.. Bond Gate. Nuneaton.

 




