Royal Society for the Protection of Birds

Our Ally the ' Bird

The Part that Birds Play in the Economy of Nature—
Showing that the Toll they take in Man’s Crops of
Grain and Fruit is only their Just Wages for Destroying

Noxious Weeds and Destructive Insects.

 

 

RE birds

the allies

~ 7« Or the

enemies of Man
the Gardener?

D 0 they eat
mostly caterpillars
or mostly fruit?

Are small
birds over—
p r o tected
b y th e
Wild Birds

P r otection

The bullﬁnch, although accused of doing harm to

various fruit crops, often does good service in

pruning the trees, and devours thousands of weed-
seeds and injurious larvae.

 




 

2

These questions are perpetually being asked, and are con—
tinually receiving different answers, according to the predilec~
tions, the knowledge, and the patience of the speaker, and.
according as the husbandman’s season is a good or a bad one.

The charge against the Acts may be quickly disposed of.
In spite of the institution of aClose'lime, there is no bird fairly
chargeable with any appreciable damage, which the owner or
tiller of the soil is prohibited by the Act from slaughtering at
any period of the year. A few debatable birds may have been
added to the list of scheduled birds by a County Council here
and there; but County Councils are representative bodies, and
may be safely left to answer for their deeds to those whom they
‘ represent. On the other hand, the Acts, as framed and as

administered by the Councils, serve greatly to protect not only;

our rare, useful, and beautiful birds, but also the larger birds
of prey, which have had little chance in recent times to keep
down the smaller species, because they themselves have been
indiscriminately and relentlessly trapped and shot by the
gamekeeper.

ln‘considering the utility of birds it is customary to divide
them into insectivorous and otherwise, and to View all those
that are otherwrse as man s enemies in the field and garden.

No theory could be more misleading. Few species are
either entirely insectivorous or entirely vegetarian; and both
hard—billed and soft~billed include among them man’s allies in
the cultivation of the ground. Both will inevitably eat the
food for which they are adapted by nature, whether the pro~
duce be wild fruit or cultivated fruit, thistle—seed or wheat:
whether it be food which man claims as all his own, or such
as he pronounces rubbish to which they are more than wel-
come. And it must in fairness be allowed that the birds have

a right to a share, not oan by the laws of natural right, but
because they have earned it.

Take, fonexample, the thrush. All the year round. the
thrush 1s busrly engaged in killing and eating snails, slugs.

worms, grubs, and chrysalides; in the summer he takes some
strawberries and currants.

Now, the snails and slugs he has destroyed before would
have crawled in countless numbers over the strawberries.
devouring as they went; the worms (useful in their way when
not superabundant) would have reduced the lawn to a rough
expanse of brown castings. ' The gardener would do his best
for the fruit, and mow and roll the lawn, but he might employ
a. boye—or half—a—dozen boys—~all day long, without getting
rid of the snails and grubs with which the thrushes and black—

 

r A-.. ,Angm’rg'u _4.._________~-rﬁ’_

 




 

 

 

3

birds feed their young families and themselves, and'the lawn
would be 1n de esperate case. For the few weeks that the fruit
is ripe it can be netted—~old herring nets are not expensive“
but many an experienced gardener will tell you, not only that
the thrush does far more good than harm in the long run, but
that he prefers to let the bird have its share of grubs and fruit
rather than net the fruit and the snails in together.

Since the thrush family have soft bills for dealing with grub
food, is it fair to condemn them because those same bills are
also well adapted for dealing with soft. fruit?

Then take the case of the chafﬁnch, as a representative of
many of the ﬁnches and similar birds. The chafhnch lives
chiefly, in its adult life, on seeds, and throughout the year is
searching industriously for those of a thousand and one weeds
that choke the growth of farm and garden crops-charlock,
plantains, groundsel, knotgrass, and other hardy pests of
farmer and gardener; searching for them both at the time they
ripen and afterwards in the stubble and the stackyard. It also
devours, and feeds its young entirely, on insects of various
kinds, including leaf~roller and looper caterpillars, and the
dreaded “surface" caterpillar (the grub of the diamond—
backed moth), a service to man it performs in common with
the starling, sparrow, and linnet.

As a set—off to this good work the chafhnch will thin out
young turnips as thoroughly as the farmer himself would do it
a little later on, and will take toll of newly~sown cabbage,
radish, and various garden. seeds if these are not planted deep
enough to escape his quick eye, and are not protected. The
same taste and the same bill which exercise themselves so use—
fully on the weeds are turned for a limited time and under
certain conditions to the crops. But what are the proportions
of work and damage? Everyone has some vague idea of the
rapid growth and the stubborn vitality of those wiry indigenous
plants which go by the name of weeds, and the ease with
which they choke and overpower the cultivated alien.

Knotgrass, with its host of tiny seeds, thistle and groundsel
with their innumerable winged children, indomitable plantains
and shepherd s purse and charlock, are ready to overrun the
world at the shortest notice.

One small spike of plantain yields two or three thousand
seeds, at a low estimate, and this means nine or ten thousand
potential successors of one single plant. All would not find
hospitable soil, but it is certain that if the birds of the air did
not consume a large proportion, they would present an appal-
ling problem to the tiller of ﬁeld and garden. The quantity

 




 

 

4

eaten by birds such as chafﬁnch, greenﬁnch, linnet, red—poll,
lark, and yellow-hammer and other buntings, is incalculable.
A caged bullﬁnch has been observed to eat Z38 thistle seeds
in twenty minutes, though unstintingly provided with hemp—
seed.

The birds might claim a percentage of the crop in return
for their weeding; but they do not claim the twenty~ﬁve per
cent. that has been known to fall before the grubs of the
diamond~backed moth, 24] of which have been counted on
one turnip plant. In place of such a demand the birds eat
the grubs.

Another class of labourer is represented by the tits. A
-man who possesses the smallest strip of garden gains some
comprehension of the character of weeds, and must have
observed a thrush breaking a snail shell, and a blackbird
pulling an earthworm out of the ground. But the insect food
of the tits is of the minute and inﬁnitely destructive species
with which man is still more helpless to deal.

It includes weevils, various insects, and larvae that ensconce
themselves within young buds, and also that mysterious plague
commonly known ‘as “ blight," and more scientiﬁcally as
aphides or green—ﬂy. A blue tit may be seen attacking the
buds of a fruit tree with vigour and persistence; but rarely in~
deed does this small gardener make a mistake in his business,
which is to get at the grub within. Some wonderfully acute
sense enables him to divine which bud is the abode of the
creature that would be the destruction, not of one only, but
of many buds, and this grub it is that is the tits tit—bit. Tits
are now admitted by the Board of Agriculture to be among the
most useful of birds in garden and orchard; and while their
occasional onslaughts on pears and apples are at once seen and
noted against them, it may be conﬁdently presumed that their
serv1ces are in fact very great rr-‘far greater than is recognised.

Trees attacked even by bullﬁnches have frequently been
known to yield theﬁnest fruit in the garden, though no bird
has a worse reputation among gardeners.

Certainly no bullﬁnch, whatever his sins, was ever such a
terror to the gardener, such a formidable, incontestable enemy,
as the minute aphis, so sudden in its coming, so marvellous in
its rate of increase. It is not a showy visitor like the bird.
There are people who pay little heed to the small, weak, help—

less—looking thing, and think that a pestilential Wind has
pelsoned their plants.

Nothing green and sappy, from the stately tree and the
growmg corn and the hop-bine, to the dainty pink and the

 

-.-,

 




 

 

l
l
l
l

 

     
  
  
 
 
 
  

The goldﬁnch—one of the
most beautiful of the smaller
British birds—is also one of
the most useful. The plants
upon the seeds of which it
feeds are those that are the
most noxious to the cultivator.

queenly rose, comes
amiss to the ever
hungry aphis, which
spends all its days in
sucking up sap and in multi—
plying its kind. One green-ﬂy
to~day means about sixteen
thousand green-ﬂies in a week,
for one insect will produce
twenty-ﬁve perfect young ones in a day,
and each of those twenty-ﬁve will be
ready to produce twenty-ﬁve more a
couple of days later. Professor Huxley
made an ingenious computation to show
that the tenth generation from a single
aphis, if all survived, would equal in
weight ﬁve hundred millions of stout

 




 

 

 

 

6
men, or one~third of the population of the globe, supposing
that population to consist of stout men.

50 appalling a state of things is not likely to come to pass.
Wind and rain kill quantities of aphides; various insects, such
as ladybird and earwig, reduce their numbers; but their most
untiring and effectual hunters are the tits, the wren, the summer
warblers, and (during nesting time) the sparrow.

The deadly woolly aphis, or American blight, which is held
answerable for the alarming decay of late years of so many
beech trees, as well as of disastrous injury to forest trees and
orchards in general, is most effectually dealt with by the tit
family-“the blue tit in particular. Another remarkable insect,
said, indeed, to be a species of aphis, is the small creature
which produces the larch disease, and after the passing of the
Wild Birds Protection Act the larch disease of Scotland notice~
ably decreased, the cure being attributed especially to the long»
tailed tit and the gold~crested wren.

Boring beetles, devastating caterpillars, and sundry lilipu—
tians which in their huge battalions can attack and kill forest
trees, are diligently hunted by the tits, and by such birds as
the nuthatch, tree~creeper, wryneck, and wo'odpecker. The
scolytus beetle, a special favourite with the blue—tit, has des—
troyed forests; and Mr. Roach Smith has narrated how, in the
neighbourhood of Brussels, Where he noted an almost entire
absence of insectivorous birds, the trees were stripped of their
leaves and chafers weighed down the naked boughs like onions
on a. rope.

The cockchafer grub is too big a mouthful for the dainty
tit; moreover as it is especially a nest of the ﬁeld it requires the
attentions of a ﬁeld bird. Cockchafer, wireworm, and leather—
jacket are the three furies which, more than any other enemy,
menace. the prosperity of the farmer. The opposition to these
dangerous destroyers consists mainly of rocks, lapwings, star~
lings, and jackdaws, assisted by magpies and some other birds,
and by others again, such as nightjar, wheatear, corncrake.
shrike, and jay, which eat the insects in their fully developed
state.

It is hard to say which of the three birds ﬁrst mentioned .is
the best friend of the farmer. Of the lapwing or plover nothing
but good can be said, and. the fashionable demand for its eggs
for the table is a demand for so many more wireworms for the
land. The rook may make too free with spring corn, especiallV
if not deep_p1anted,for in spring he is often hard up for a meal;
he may 1n3ure ripening corn, pull up turnips and potatoes in
seeking for the grubs at their root, and peck root crops Which

“=3




an

7

are left in the ground during winter; but his worst offences are
not comparable with the records of the destruction wrought by
the underground devourers, and apart from these failings he is
one of the most invaluable fellow-workers ever farmer had.

The starling has a fondness for cherries, especially in thirsty
weather; as public servant his services to agriculture and horti—
culture would be slenderly paid by the dedication of an orchard

 

The thrush is another bird who takes toll of the gardener’s fruit,

and consequently is given a bad name. But the grubs and cater—

pillars that a single thrush devours would, if left to develop in
peace, consume more fruit than half-a—dozen thrushes.

to his use, but those who wish to make money by their cherries
will prefer to net their trees. To the agriculturlst it IS a sugges~

' tive sight to see the rooks, and maybe the gulls, following the

FIOUgh and clearing the furrow of grubs; or to watch the star~
ling or jackdaw perched on the backs of the sheep, whose
ﬂeeces they rid of the troublesome tick. Suggestive also to
the farming mind, the graceful movements of the wagtails on
the moist ilands, where they feed on the marsh snails that
harbour liverﬂuke; the activities of the lark, seeking wireworm

 




 

 

The rook is a much—persecuted and maligned bird.
Although he is partial to spring corn, and may do
damage to root crops, he devours an endless number
of grubs and underground pests of various sorts, and
is by no means so black a character as he is painted.

and charlock seed in the fallows; the ghostly forms of owls
about the mice-ridden stackyard, and poise of the kestrel over
the meadow.

There are very many birds against whom practically no
complaint can be lodged by even the most jealous cultivator;
among them the useful little wren, the robin (even though he
taste fruit once in a way), the swallow tribe, the fly-hawking
nightjar, the cuckoo—feeder on destructive hairy caterpillarsr
ﬂycatcher, wagtails, chats, pipits, hedge—sparrow, nightingale,
chiff-chaff, and whitethroat and other warblers, peewit, missel-
thrush, redstart, and goldﬁnch.

 




 

 

9
Not even these, however, escape calumny. A proposal has

been seriously madehto destroy swallows because the countless
ﬂies they devour include the mayl‘ly beloved of anglers!

Other species undoubtedly take toll in return for their
work. They are content with payment in kind during the short
harvest season, and for the rest of the year keep themselves,
and accomplish that which, by no possible outlay of time or
labour or money could man do for himself. Man, the greediest
of all animals, not only grudges every mouthful that could go
down his own throat, grudges the expense and trouble required
to net his fruit, to black-cotton his seeds, to provide water or
wild fruit bushes or sunﬂowers about his fruit gardens_-simple
expedients recommended by practical professional cultivators
“or to ”scare” his ﬁelds, but he appropriates to himself what—
ever wild berry he may fancy without the smallest compensa—
tion to the wild creatures whose sustenance he takes.

It should be remembered, moreover, that’wheth-er the adult
bird be mainly insectivorous or mainly vegetarian in taste, the
young are fed almost entirely on animal food, for this is the
period of hungry growth, when the most condensed and
strengthening foods—the proteids and hydro~carbons—are
needed. At any time the bird’s appetite is great, for its food
has to support an intensely quick, bright, passionate little life,
incomparably active and volatile, and to supply fuel for the
hot blood circulating from a heart that beats twice as fast as
the heart of sluggish man. A young robin has been known to
eat its own weight of food in twenty—four hours, which is as
though your growing boy were to require six or seven stone of
bread and meat in a day.

And where the young animal has milk and patent foods,
the young bird has grubs and caterpillars. The number of
these required to ﬁll all the gaping little mouths in all the nests
throughout the country in early summer defies imagination,
when we are told by naturalists of old birds flying to the nest
200, 400, and 500 times a day, with a mouthful of insects at
each visit; and when we consider that there are far more birds
then than at any other time of the year, since an enormous
percentage of ﬂedglings perishes from one cause or another.

“ lVlan cannot live without the bird,” said Michelet to a
country which meditated the experiment and found out its
mistake. And whatever the growl at certain seasons and
against certain birds, men are more and more coming to the
conclusion that Michelet was right. The farmer is learning to
know his friends—the “ winged wardens ” of the farm; large
growers whose fruit and jams are famed all over the country

 

 




 

 

IO

are strong supporters of protection laws; and practical
gardeners who have superintended some of the greatest
gardens in England for twenty, thirty, and forty years are
fervent believers in feathered labour. As knowledge of the
lives and ways of the wild folk increases, we may expect to

 

The owl is as undoubtedly the friend of man as he is the

enemy of mice and other small vermin. He is the

farmer's best friend, and every effort should be made to
encourage his presence in barn or stackyard.

ﬁnd all tillers of the soil upholding the broad principles of the

Royal Society for the Protection of Birds.

Mention has been made here of familiar birds because they
form the largest battalions of our allies. The majestic buzzard,
the soaring kite, the osprey, and the barriers, the booming

 

 




V-

 

l l

bittern, the avocet and ruff—all well-nigh extinct in this
country—wand other and smaller birds which still struggle, more
and more faintly, against extermination in Britain, are not and
never have been looked on with enmity by the farmer. They
have other and more insatiable foes to dread, and their extinc-
tion would be not so much a loss for economic reasons as an
irreparable misfortune to the naturalist’s Britain.

L. GARDINER.

Reprinted from “Pearson’s Magazine ” by kind permission.

Leaﬂet No. 54. Published by the Royal Society for the Protection
of Birds, 82, Victoria Street, London, S.W.l, of whom copies may be
obtained 2d. each, ls. 6d. per dozen. ‘

 

Bird Food Charts. Coloured Charts of percentages of the various
items of diet of" British Wild Birds, showing at a glance the ratio of
good and harm effected, with illustration of bird. The percentages
are based mainly on the results of scientiﬁc investigations made by
Dr. W. E. Collinge and published in his book, “ The Food of Some
British Wild Birds ". Price 3d. each, by ‘post 3%d.

By Walter E. Collingc,

The National Importance of Wild Birds.
Price 2d. each.

D.Sc., F.L.S Reprinted from the “ National Review
l8. 9d. per dozen.

The Utility of Owls—A Broadcast Talk. By W. A. Edwards.

Price ld. each, is. per dozen post free.

A pocket guide to the commoner

The A. B. C. of Common Birds.
inland Birds, with short and simple descriptions, local names, and brief

Price 6d., by post 7d.

notes on their food in its relation to agriculture.

Birds in the Bush. (“ A Bird in the Bush is worth two in the
Hand...) How to recognise Wild Birds; the Interest of Bird Life; the
Protection of Wild Birds. By Charles S. Bayne. Price 6d., by post 7d.

Published by the Royal Society for the Protection of Birds,
82, Victoria Street, London, S.W.l.

WITHERBY 8: CO.. PRINTERS, LONDON. W.C.1.

3E5? ' _.__.-__._-

 




 




