 

By Anna Harris Smith.

 

if? a '
aw, 1%? ,
Harold Sumner was playing 1n the garden under the ' fleétyee one

hot afternoon. He was tired of his wagon and his little train df cart “'- If;
and he went where Prince, the dog, was asleep on the grass.

“ Come he1e, P1inCe; I want to put my hat on your head and play
you are a little boy,” he said, pulling Prince by- his front paws.

Prince was sleepy and tired and did not want to play, so Harold took
a little stick and struck at him, until the poor dog, disturbed from his nap,
got 11p and ran away.

Then Harold looked for Snowball, the cat. She was curled up
under a bush enjoying a ﬁne sleep, but Harold pulled, her out roughly,
and tried to crowd her into his little wagon. p

Of course Snowball did not like that, so she scratched Harold, and
ran off as fast as she could go.

Then Harold’s mamma, Who had been watchinghim from the porch,
said : “ I have told you very often it is unkind and selﬁsh to disturb Prince
and Snowball when they are asleep. Now you must go to your room."

I

 




    

  

hard, and threw himself on his little bed.

It seemed as if he had been there only a minute when something
strange happened. He thought he was not there at all, but in the gar-
den, and a number of dogs and cats were near him talking. He was
surpriSed to find he understood what they said.

Prince was the ﬁrst speaker. “I am very tired of this,” he said.
“My little master does not treat me well at all. This morning he
took me with him when he went out on his bicycle, and I had to
run so fast that I got very hot and tired; then when we came back,
and I was trying to get rested, he disturbed me so that I had to go
and hide from him.”

“I often have to hide from him,” said Snowball. “He cannot
understand how he hurts me, or he would not do it, I am sure. He
will not let me get a chance to sleep. He lifts me by one paw, and he
squeezes mevso tightly that it makes my bones ache. Then I have to
scratch him to get away.”

“ You are a brave cat if you dare to scratch him,” said a thin, sober
little kitten. “ There are three children at my house, and they are always
running after me. I have hardly a minute’s peace. Sometimes I think
they will kill me. The baby pulls my fur out, and squeezes me until I
cannot breathe, and the other children pull me about until I am lame and
sore. Their mother never tries to save me from them, but if I venture
to put; out my claws and give one tiny little scratch to let them know when
I am very much hurt, they slap me and call me a cross kitten.”

“ That is very unfair,” said a dog who was walking about. "‘ You
must excuse me for walking while I talk, but the fact is I have been
fastened‘up all day with a short chain, and I am quite stiff. You don’t
know how thankful I am to get a chance to have a run.”

‘f I am often kept fastened up all day,” said another dog, “ but that
is not‘l’the worst of it, for sometimes they forget to give me fresh water.
My house is in a hot part of the yard, and the heat makes me suffer with
thirst. If I could have plenty of water, and a good large bone to amuse
myself with, and if my house could be kept in the shade, I should not
mind being tied up quite so much.”

“ You would not always get a bone and water enough if you were
not tied up,” said a hungry-looking dog near by. “ I am free to run
about, and I suppose my master thinks I can provide for myself; but I
hate to steal, and often I cannot ﬁnd water to drink when I am suffering
from thirst. I think it is wicked of my master not to look out for me a
little better.”

“ Speaking of fresh water,” piped a little bird sitting on a branch
over the dog’s head, “the worst thing I ever happened to know was

2

 

That made Harold angry, and he ran ‘ﬁbsta‘i‘rstBu‘f his ‘dadr‘vﬁy "




    

  

ab'out'my‘ cousin the canary. His mistress went away for a little visit
and forgot to leive him water enough to drink, and he died of thirst.
Only think of it I ~ I have to ﬂy a long way sometimes to get water, but
I am free. I cannot bear to think of my poor cousin.”

2

“ I wonder,’ said a cat that was lying under the tree, glancing up
longingly at the bird, “how the people who Own us would like to be
treated as they treat us. Half the time they forget to give me any food
or drink until I get under their feet and cry and teaser ”for it; then they
scold me, and say I am ‘ always under foot,’ and do not seem to think
that I am so hungry I can’t help crying. If they fed me, I would not get
in their way.” '

“ They say,” remarked another cat, “that we can catch our own
food, but that is not so easy. I do not mean to be personal,” she said,
looking up at the bird, “ but even when hunger drives us to try to catch
a bird, the birds are usually too spry for us. As for mice, there are days
when we cannot even get a smell of one. In fact, the hungrier you are
the harder it seems to be to ﬁnd anything to eat, and the swill pails are
usually kept in tight“ boxes nowadays, so there is no chance there.”

“You can’t tell me anything about that,” said a*‘f,aint voice. All
turned to see where it came from, and Harold spied under a bush the
thinnest, most sad and forlorn cat hehad ever seen. It made his heart
ache to look at it.

The cat looked timidly out at the company, and edged as far away
from the dogs as she could; then she said in a weak voice :

“ When I was a kitten I was taken away from my mother and given
to a little girl. She was very kind to me; I had milk ‘and meat every
day, and I was never turned out at night; she did not pull me about,
and I was Very happy. I wish I had died then.

“ I was nearly grown up when the family moved away and left me.
I cried and cried aBOut the house after they had gone, day after day,
until I was nearly starved; then I went to the next neighbors, but they
drove me away. I tried another neighbor, and a great dog ﬂew after
me. Wherever I Went I was driven off, sometimes by stones, sometimes
by a dog. No one wanted me, no one pitied me or seemed willing to
give me a mouthful to eat.

i “ I now wander about trying to ﬁnd food and shelter. Often for
days I can ﬁnd nothing to eat, and I am slowly starving/to death. I had
three dear little kittens under the doorstep of an old' house ~where no
family lived, but I had no food to give them, and they starved to death
before my eyes. I am so wretched, and I suffer so much since my little
mistress deserted me, that I would be thankful to any one who would kill
me in some merciful way and end my misery.”

Here her voice died out in a wail of despair. All the other cats

‘3

   




wailed in sympathy. Even the dogs uttered a low, deep growl meant
to express their sorrow, and one of them was heardto say to another,
“ I am glad my little master never let me chase cats, for I can see now
how cruel it is, even if you do not mean to hurt them.”

Harold was so affected by this sorrowful tale that he began to sob ;
then he heard his mother say: “Why, my dear boy, what are you
dreaming about?” And he awoke to find her bending over him.

“Oh, mother! I have had such a bad dream! Please let me go
right over to Clara Moore’s house. They went away last week, and I
am afraid they left her kitten, for I know her mother did not like cats,”
and she was not very kind to Clara’s kitty.”

Harold’s mamma very gladly granted his request, and she went with
him to the next street. Sure enough, the poor kitten was there on the
back doorstep, crouched down and looking very unhappy. \Vhen she
saw Harold and his mamma coming she got up and cried most pitifully,
as if she were trying to tell them how lonely, hungry and miserable
- she felt."

“We must not leave her here to suffer,” said Mrs. Sumner; “ we
will carry her home, and if we cannot ﬁnd a good place for her we will
have. her put out of her trouble in a quick and merciful way instead of
leaving her to die from slow starvation. I wonder that people can be so
cruel as to leave a cat or a kitten behind them when they go away, and I
am very glad, my dear Harold, that you are going to be a brave and
good little knight, ready to rescue any poor weak creature from suffering.
I would rather have my boy kind and considerate to every living creature
than to have him great in any other way, though, indeed, a boy or a man
can never be truly great unless he has a good heart.”

“ The dream made me see things so clearly,” said Harold, “that I
am sure I never can be thoughtless and cruel to any living creature again.”

_ “Just remember, my dear,” said his mother, “that the horse, the
cow, the dog, the cat, the little bird, everything that lives, can be hungry,
thirSty, hot, cold, tired, frightened, lonely, just as you might be, and it is
your duty to help them just as you would like to be helped if you were
in their place. If you will remember this I think it will help you to

keep your good resolution.”

 

Printed by the Animal Rescue League, 51 Carver street, Boston, from Friends
and Ilelpers (compiled, by Miss Sarah J. Eddy), by permission of the publishers,
Messrs. Ginn & Co.

Junior membership in the League is 25 cents a year. Associate membership $1.00.
Active membership $5.00. All are cordially invited to visit the League House, and to
add their names to its list of members. Names of members or contributors of money
may be sent to the Treasurer, 51. Carver street. ‘

This leaﬂet can be had at 10 cents for twenty copies, or 40 cents a hundred,
postage paid.

4

 




