 

 

 

THE DOGS BILL.

DR. HADWEN’S REPLY TO
DR. CHAPPLE.

 

 

A VERBATIM REPORT OF

DEBATE

Dr. W. A. CHAPPLE, M.P., M.D.,

AND

Dr. WALTER R. HADWEN, J.P., M.D.,
” HEIf IN GRAND COMMITTEE ROOM 10

, OF THE
"9 HOUSE OF COMMONS

ON

MONDAY EVENING, JUNE 15TH, 1914.

 

 

PUBLISHED BY THE
BRITISH UNION FOR THE ABOLITION OF VIVISECTION
(The British Anti-Vivisection Society),
32, CHARING CROSS, LONDON, SAX".
Secretary - Miss B. E. KIDD.

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 




I
1
i
I
l

 

THE DOGS BILL.

 

DR. HADWEN’S REPLY TO
DR. CHAPPLE.

 

 

DEBATE between Dr. W. R. Hadwen, J .P.
(President of the British Union for the Aboli-
tion of Vivisection), and Dr. W. A. Chapple

(Member of Parliament for Stirlingshire), on “ The
Question of Retaining Dogs as Subjects for Vivisec—
tion,” took place in Grand Committee Room 10 of
the House of Commons, on Monday evening, June 15,
1914. ‘

H. G. CHANCELLOR, Esq. (Member of Parliament
for Haggerston), who occupied the chair, said : Gentle—
men,—This is the ﬁrst time I have ever been pre-
sumptuous enough to preside over a meeting of
Members, or call them together for the present purpose.
This meeting has been called as the result of a challenge
that I threw out, in the course of the debate on the
second reading of the Dogs Bill, on April 17 last.
On that occasion I said in the course of my speech :
“ I presume that the hon. Member is prepared to
stand by what he has said, which will appear in the
Ofﬁcial Report to-morrow. Is he prepared to reassert
those opinions upon a platform, where they can be
met by a man with similar qualiﬁcations to his own,
and where they can be subjected to the examination
of reason and of fact ? In other words, is he prepared
to debate the question if I provide a platform for
him ’4 It is utterly useless for a layman like myself,
who is interested only in a general way, but who,
having read a good deal on both sides of the question,
has come to the conclusion that the knowledge derived
from this experimentation is false knowledge, and

 

 




 

 

4

not scientiﬁc knowledge, and is really leading away
from the solution of the questions which the medical
profession have to solve—it is useless for me to put
any arguments against those of the hon. Member;
but if this Bill reaches Committee, I will see that every
Member of that Committee is invited to hear the
hon. Member explain his views in the presence of an
opponent who is medically qualiﬁed to meet him.”
As a result of that, correspondence took place between
Dr. Chapple and myself. He asked me to arrange
terms of reference, and these were arranged as follows :
“That you speak for half an hour, putting the case
for retaining dogs as subjects for vivisection, asserting
your claims as to what has been, and is about to
be, discovered through them, and can be discovered
only through them. Your opponent to have half
an hour for reply, and further replies by you and him
of ﬁfteen or twenty minutes each.”

That is the line we take to-night. I do not propose
to say anything on the general question, excepting
to explain that my one desire was that Members
interested in this matter might have the advantage
of hearing the opposition side to vivisection from
a medical point of View. We have no sympathisers
with this Bill who are medically qualiﬁed in the
House to put that side When scientiﬁc champions,
like my friend Dr. Chapple, are able to put the medical
point of view, we have no man to answer, and there-
fore we are placed at a great disadvantage. I think
that anybody who knows anything about Dr. Hadwen
feels that he is eminently qualiﬁed to debate the
question as against vivisection. I will read out his
qualiﬁcations. He is a- Justice of the Peace, an
M.D., L.R.C.P., M.R.C.S., L.S.A. He has taken a
very great interest in this question and understands it
as well as any living man, not only from a medical,
but also from an outside point of view. Without
any further preface I will now ask Dr. Chapple to
address you. '

 

 

 

 




c‘f-‘c .

 

 

DR. CHAPPLE’S OPENING SPEECH.

DR. W. A. CHAPPLE: Mr. Chancellor and Ladies
and Gentlemen,—I have no hesitation whatever
in rising to this challenge, for it is for those who
come to submit, and not for those who speak. Since
there are a sufﬁcient number present to estimate
the debate on this subject, I am quite willing to play
my part.

THE EXPERT AND HIS MATERIAL.

In all the ﬁeld of experimentation—it does not
matter what the department may be—the man who
picks the materials is the man to do the experiment.
I would think it unblushing presumption on my part
to go into an aeroplane factory and dictate to those
experimenting with aeroplanes there what material
they should use. It would be a dangerous thing to
decide against any machinery or any material, not
only that those experimenters want at the present time,
but that they might want in the future. It would
hamper them in their experimentation. I might do
the same with regard to wireless telegraphy or Rontgen
rays. I might also have the presumption to walk
into a physiological laboratory and say to the experi-
menters seekingﬂ—what ?.——seeking means for the
alleviation of disease and the removal of pain, nothing
else——I might say to those people, “ There are certain
animals upon which you must not experiment. You
may have rabbits, and mice, and rats, and sheep, and
goats; but you may not have dogs.” Now that
would be a very dangerous thing to do, if they took
any notice of me, or thought that I had power to
prevent them using dogs. '

THE MOTIVE FOR VIVISECTION.

If you say, “ What are these experimenters after ? ”
I reply, They are not after torture of animals. I hope
there is no one here who does not give those great
experimenters credit for this : that they are not seek-
ing torture, or the infliction of pain, or gratifying a'
natural impulse to dissect the animals they operate
upon. They are after one thing, and one thing only,
and that is the mitigation of human suffering and the
banishment of disease. If you personally have got

the obsession that there is a certain love of torture
B ,

 

 

 

 




 

. WWW,» V .._..__ .._. , . ,

(3

and fascination in operating; if you say that these 1
vivisectionists are not seeking truth as to the causation i
and the cure of disease, but that they have got some .
ulterior object—if you say that, then I cannot argue i
with you. I am not a vivisector myself, but I know
many of these men. I have seen them not only in
our own country but in many foreign countries, and

I want to say that those experimenters are seeking i
one thing, and one‘thfng only, and that is, such truth
with regard to the causation and cure of disease
as will help to mitigate suffering not only in men
and women and children, but in the lower animals
themselves. That, I think, is sufﬁcient as a motive.

EXPERI MENT PRACTICALLY PAINLES‘S.

The second thing I want to emphasize is that experi-
mentation in this country is practically pain ess.
I want to emphasize it by, calling attention to this:
that if you really want to select or place before your
mind the horrors of vivisection, you cannot do it
by examining the laboratories to—day. You have to
go back ﬁfty or one hundred years if you want to
call those horrors to your aid. If in regard to vivi-
section you want to work upon people’s imagination,
or upon their indignation, or upon their feelings of
sentiment, it cannot be done today; for to-day
everything that is done is done by law under an
anaesthetic. 'Experimentation on a dog which is not .
under an anaesthetic is practically impossible, unless i
you are giving it a hypodermic injection, which can 1

 

be done without producing any pain whatever, prac-
tically. Otherwise, you must anaesthetise the animal.
Those other things are done under an anaesthetic ‘

and under chloroform, and the dog does not know ?
anything about it. Moreover, it anticipates nothing.
For to—day you start not by giving chloroform ; you
do not drug it with a handkerchief saturated With
chloroform, as used to be done. You ﬁrst give the
animal a hypodermic injection of ﬁve to ten grains
of morphia, and it goes to sleep, and then you put
it into a box where there is a handful of cotton-wool
saturated in chloroform, and under the inﬂuence of

 

 

 




 

 

the chloroform it passes into a state of complete
anaesthetisation. It is then taken on to the operating
table, and placed on its back, and little strings are
tied to its feet in such a way as to keep it from rolling
on its side. I mention these points because they have
been referred to in tragic tones and terms. There is
neither anticipation of pain, nor inﬂiction of pain
during operation, for these operations to—day are as
humane as the operations of surgery. The “ horrors ”
are not in the vivisector’s room to—day; they are
in the ordinary operating theatre where, for instance,
you may see the bowels exposed and lying over the
body—a ghastly sight if you like to picture it. That
is done in the interests of humanity.

VALUE OF ANTISEISTICS.

But what caused the pain, in the old days, say, in
an operation for appendicitis? The actual opera-
tion itself was not the cause of the pain. The
pain was due to. the inﬂammation or suppuration
which followed the operation. There are great
authorities to- day who tell us that more pain has
been relieved by antiseptics than by chloroform.
The pain of an operation, even in the olden days,
was comparatively little. It was the inﬂammation
that followed an ordinary amputation, when the
patient was strapped in the chair, that was painful.
It was not when the surgeon was sweeping round
with his knife and severing the limb from the rest
of the body. There was little pain then compared
with the pain attending the inﬂammation that
followed. To-day, in the vivisector’s room, as
much care is taken to prevent suppuration or
inﬂammation as in the surgeon’s room. Suppuration
or inﬂammation spoils the whole operation. Nothing
can result from an operation upon a dog unless you
have an absolutely still animal on which to operate,
absolutely free from pain or suffering following the
inﬂammation.

CANCER.

I think, then, I have emphasized two points. First,
that the man who operates is the man to pick the
animal. If that man tells me he wants a dog, I give

 




 

 

 

8

that man credit for wanting that dog, because there
is no other animal upon which he can experiment
with the chance of success. In the name of heaven,
why should a man have a dog if a rabbit is better
than a dog ’4 If Dr. Bashford, the head of the Cancer
Research Department, were to come to me to-day

and tell me that he had a cue to the discovery of

the causation and cure of cancer, and that he wanted
a-dog to experiment upon for that purpose, I think
I would be the most inhumane brute that ever lived
if I denied him a dog. I never take my eye away
from the suffering of cancer, for it is a world—wide
inﬂiction upon the masses of men. You have only to
think of men’s agony and women’s tears, and you
would thrust aside all this Anti-vivisection humbug.
If a man wanted a dog on which to experiment, and
you denied it to him, I consider you would deserve
the greatest odium that could be heaped upon you
for being so cruel as to deny even the discovery of
the cure or prevention of cancer.

To—day you can give dogs cancer. I do not think
that is horrible; I see absolutely nothing horrible
about it. You can give a dog, or a mouse, or a rat
cancer to—day, and inﬂict no pain whatever. Some-
. body was talking to me in the Lobby the other day
about the tragedy of giving monkeys syphilis and all
the horrors of disease. N o monkey suffers from the
horrors of disease. What is horrible in disease is the
dying stage of disease, not the initiatory stage. Women
discover that they have cancer, and in 999 out of
1,000 they discover it by accident, Without any suffer-
ing at all. A woman is drying herself in the morning
and she feels a little lump. She goes on for weeks
and sees that the lump is getting a little bigger, and
then she inquires about it. But the initiatory stages
of the disease are painless.

INOCULATION OF TUBERCULOSIS

We experiment for diagnostic purposes upon guinea—
pigs and we inoculate them with tuberculosis. To give
tuberculosis sounds dreadful, but there is nothing
dreadful about it You inject the germs by means of
a hypodermic needle, and there 1s more pain caused by

  

   
    

 

 

 

 




 

 

the pinch you give the skin when putting in the needle
than there is in the actual inserting of the needle
itself. You give it practically no pain then, or there—
after. Why? Because you do not allow it to go on
to the worst stages of the disease. You prevent suffer-
ing by having that guinea—pig under an anaesthetic
when dissecting it along the glands, and examining
them under the microscope in order to ascertain
whether there are tuberculous germs there or not.
The giving an animal tuberculosis does not necessarily
give it disease in a horrible form; The law absolutely
denies the right of that being done. All these vivi—
secting places are open to , Inspectors, and the
vivisectors themselves are bound by the law to keep
these animals under an anaesthetic.

' Therefore, in the inoculation of disease you inﬂict
practically no pain, and in the after effects of disease
the animal suffers practically no pain. There may be
mild exceptions to that rule, but the law demands that
if there is pain supervening on what you do, or any
complication arising on what you do, you must kill
the animal. You would kill the animal anyway, because
it has ceased to be useful to you.

AFTER OPERATIONS.

_- Take pain after abdominal section. You have the
whole of the abdomen open and all the organs eX-
posed ; you may have most of the organs outside the
body. To—day we do not even bandage it. It is painted
with iodine, because iodine is a sufﬁcient protectibn
against germs from outside. So that if you are going
to condemn operations to—day in the vivisector’s
room as torture, you are going to condemn, for the
same reason, and with the same justiﬁcation, every
operation on every man and woman and child in this
country. I have had to emphasize these points because
I think they meet the objections in the minds of
Anti-vivisectors; I think they meet the objections
that they raise, and the sweeping denunciations that
they hurl at vivisectors. I certainly would not address
an Anti-vivisection audience, because once they have
taken up their propaganda it is really no use talking to
them. But I imagine that those whom I am addressing

 




 

 

 

 

 

10

here to—night have an Open mind on this subject,
and really want to know the truth; and I am
endeavouring to emphasize the truth as it appears to me.

DEMAND FOR THE DOG.

I said that the best judges of what animals should
be used are the people who eXperiment'. We have had
before us, quite recently, 350 medical men—not
accused of torture; let me emphasize that—headed
by Sir Thomas Barlow and forty or ﬁfty leading
physicians in this country, and they say that if you
take away dogs you are going to cripple research
going on in Physiology, Pharmacology and Path-
ology—these three words cover the whole range of
medicine and surgery—for the prevention and cure
of disease. These'are men who know the facts, these
are men who are interested in the cure of disease and
in the prevention of disease. For this must be said,
at least, to their credit and honour : that they have
spent as much time and money for the prevention
of disease as for the cure of it; they give as much
advice to-day along the lines of prevention as along
the lines of cure, These men are out for the prevention
of disease, and for the prevention of pain and suffer—
ing, and the ultimate banishment of these things.
Professor Schafer says it is the expert who knows
the facts, and the man who has never done Vivi-
sectional work is no authority. ‘He tells us that all our
knowledge of the functions of the body is founded upon
experiments made on dogs. He adds, that the sum
of medical knowledge to-day Cannot always be drawn
from this source, or from that, but it is obtained from
all sources, and the dog is the best animal, apart
from the monkey, on whiCh to experiment.

SENTIMENT.

I want to dwell upon that a little, A good deal is I

sometimes made of the statement of those who advo—
cate vivisection, that dogs are cheap. They are cheap
in the sense that they are valuable. The only other
animal that surpasses it for the purpose of vivisection
is the monkey, or man himself. If you took away the
monkey and the dog you would so embarrass the




 

11

experimenters to-day that you might deny to humanity
the cure and prevention of some of our worst diseases.
Moreover, it is essential to have an animal that will
obey you. It is because I love my kind more than I
love dogs that I am here to—night to take up the
position I do. “ That is sentiment,” you say. I am
willing to attach the whole importance of vivisection
to that alone. If you can, by experiment on these
dogs, show me any chance or hope of relieving pain and
suffering, I am going to sacriﬁce all for anything on-
chance. It is necessary to have an animal that will
obey you. It is extraordinary what a tragic con—
struction was put upon the fact of a dog being placed
in a little basin of salt water that just covered its
paws. In an adjoining room there was a battery and
wires going from that battery People actually thought
it such a tragic thing that questions were asked about
it in the House of Commons. What was the meaning
of this ? No other animal would have done for that
experiment, because no other animal would have stood
in that basin without being touched. That battery
was a battery made to test the heart movements.

USE OF SALT WATER.

To-day, because ofthis experiment, we can have
some patient sitting in salt water—WI have seen it
done in consulting—rooms in this town—and the
doctor will read in the adjoining room what the heart
is telling him. The most wonderful details have come
out of that experiment. I have a chart taken from

. a man who suffered from heart disease that could not

be diagnosed by any methods open to the diagnos—
tician. He was suffering from cardiac failure; his
pulse was seventy-ﬁve and his heart beats were seventy-
ﬁve. He was put into some salt water, just as that
dog had been put, and, by means of the cardiogram,
which was placed in a dark room adjoining, they
detected that one part of his heart was beating at the
rate of 300 per minute, and the other at seventy-ﬁve
per minute. By means of that instrument we ﬁnd
out the particular kind of heart disease—whether
auricular, valvular, or muscular. The whole thing,
from start to ﬁnish, has been achieved through experi-

wWme—"' "—""’"'— ' ""- " "-

 




 

 

 

 

 

12

ments on dogs. Would you deny to those men and
women suffering from heart disease to-day the advan—
tage which that means in the diagnosis of disease?
Because, after all, you must diagnose you must know
what is the matter, before you can make any attempt
to cure. I could spend an hour or more going over
the notes I have to indicate remarkable discoveries
that have been made through the medium of experi—
ments on dogs, if I conﬁned myself entirely to them.

OPERATIONS ON THE LARYNX.

Take another instance. Czerny operated on eight
dogs ; he cut out the larynx, stitched up the wound,
and it healed and the animal recovered. It was not
known before that whether you could do that operation
or not with safety ;‘ whether a man could live if that
operation were done upon him. What Czerny wanted
to ascertain was whether cancer of the larynx, which
up to that time had always been fatal, could be cured.
They operated upon the German Emperor for cancer
of the larynx, and after several operations he died.
Czerny proved that there is a way in which you can
remove the larynx from a dog, and that the animal
may be perfectly healthy afterwards. And now
today the normal operation, in cases of cancer of
the larynx, is to remove the while of the larynx, and
people are cured. Would you deny that opportunity ‘2
You cannot perform that operation on a mouse—it is
too small—or on a cat, or on a horse. You can only
perform it on a dog, a docile animal, one that can be
controlled.* Monkeys are so vicious that if you get a
monkey the right size, it resents the treatment and
after—treatment. It is necessary therefore to have
dogs to experiment upon. It is not an inhuman thing.
I could spend a good deal of time telling you what has
been done for dogs themselves. So that if experimen-
tation on dogs offered nothing to the human subject,
I would still be opposed to this Bill, for the sake of the
dogs themselves. If this Bill were to pass, you could
not experiment on dogs for the prevention of the
diseases of dogs, which would be a serious thing indeed.

* The ﬁrst operator to extirpate the larynx for cancer wasBillroth 1nthe3ea1
1873; there is no record of his ever having experimented ﬁrst on healthy dogs.
Czerny’s ﬁrst operation for cancer of the oesophagus—«not “larynx ”——was in

1877, and he acknowledged that Billroth’s Operation on the larynx four years
prev1ously suggested this operation to him—W. R. H.

 

\. 714 _




_. “*W' :r~~ﬁznz-—:n .v-...- . - -. ~»~- ,

13

BENEFIT T0 DOGS THEMSELVES.

What has been done for dogs themselves ? “ It was
impossible,” Dr. Copeman said, “without experiments
on dogs to discover the germ of distemper and ﬁnd a
protective treatment against the disease.” The
remedy that he gives is the only existing preventive
of distemper, and he said he was able to cure 80 per
cent. of the dogs that he experimented upon. 80 that,
as the result of experiments upon dogs themselves,
you not only discover the causes of those diseases
from which they suffer, but also their prevention and
their cure.

HYDROPHOBIA.

Lastly let me refer to hydrophobia. Here is a disease
of dogs themselves. For the best of what we know
in this connection we depend upon the experiments of
Pasteur on dogs, and, of course, on rabbits too. Here
was one of the most dreadful diseases to which the
canine subject was liable, and which the dog com-
municated to man. By experiments which Pasteur
himself made, he was able to prove not only what
the cause of the disease is, but also how to prevent it
and cure it. The mortality actually went down from
165 to '3 per cent, and now practically hydrophobia
has lost all its horrors, for we can prevent it. We can
also cure it, reducing the mortality, as I have already
said, to '3 per cent.

An HON. MEMBER: In what country C3

DR. CHAPPLE : I do not know where all the statistics
were collected from, but they are given in . I
will ﬁnd my authority later. The mortality from
hydrophobia was reduced to '3 per cent.

These are the chief points that I have to bring
before you. First, we ought not to hamper men who
are experimenting for the cure and prevention of
disease. Professor Starling has been doing operations
on dogs, and thereby he has discovered the cause of
diabetes in dogs on which he has operated. It was
originally thought that diabetes was a liver or a
kidney disease. ,Diabetes is one of the most prevalent
and fatal diseases of early life; it is not so fatal in

O

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

14

elderly people. I am quite sure that many of you
know of friends or connections who have contracted
that dreadful disease. By experiment, Dr. Starling
has discovered how to produce diabetes in dogs.
If you can produce diabetes in dogs, you know what
the cause of it is in dogs; and all you have got to
do is to produce your diabetes, then start giving the
dog different remedies, and try this and that new
thing along the line of prevention and cure, and
sooner or later, if these experiments are unhampered,
we are going to ﬁnd the cause and the prevention
and the cure of the disease. Are you going to pass
a Bil. to deny Professor Starling the chance of dis-
covering the cause of this awful disease ? If you do,
you are doing one of the most inhumane things to
which you can set your hand.

All medical research is for the mitigation of disease,
and sooner or later‘this viv.’section must go, because,
of course, the whole intention of an experiment is
to reveal the truth. Nobody extirpates the larynx
of ~ a dog now. Whether you can remove it or not,
it does not require to be done. Consequently the
vivisector’s art is a dying art, for when you have
found your remedy you cease to operate for it. As
you are curing and preventing disease you are doing
away with the necessity of vivisection altogether.

 

H. G. CHANCELLOR, Esq: I now introduce Dr.
Hadwen, who, in addition to the qualiﬁcations I have
mentioned, is a gold medallist in medicine and in
surgery.

0r”. ~




 

st”. A

 

DR. HADWEN’S REPLY.

DR. W. R. HADWEN: Sir, and G-entlemen,~——As

Mr. Chancellor read out to you at. the opening of
this meeting, Dr. Chapple was challenged to repeat
the statements which he made in the House of Com-
mons—to repeat them in the presence of a qualiﬁed
medical man. I think that those who were present
on that occasion will agree, and those who have
read Hansard’s Report of the proceedings will agree,
that Dr. Chapple has not dealt with any of these
questions to-night. In view of Hansard, and of
the way in which his speech was taken up by the
Press, it is incumbent upon me to remind Dr. Chapple

of the statements he made on that occasion and'

to answer them.

On that occasion, and also to-night, Dr. Chapple
made a very great point of the researches which Pro-
fessor Starling, of University College, is conducting
with regard to diabetes and its cure. At the beginning
of his speech, in the middle of it. and twice again toward
the end of it, he referred to this matter.

DIABETES AND ITS CURE.

He could not have chosen a more unfortunate
illustration for his purpose.

These revolting experiments with regard to diabetes
were commenced by Claude Bernard, the arch-vivi—
sector, just seventy years ago (in 1843); and it was
in connection with his researches on this very subject,
published seven years later, that he wrote “ our mouths
are full of promises, but our hands are empty of
results.” His feeding experiments were misleading,
because dogs do not take starch naturally as food.

The experiments have been continued since by the
thousand. I saw some atrocious experiments in a
Roman laboratory a month ago, where an eminent
vivisector was busy extracting pancreatic juice from
a dog which was not anaesthetised, in order to prove
the theory of another eminent vivisector on this
subject to be erroneous.

Professor Starling has been working on the same

 




_ . . .. ,. . . .. .». .4,» _.~ -.-— 3~r.vr:~~v, 3 a; .‘»’. , 1...... u? ;,_
. , “n n, . ‘ .a ____<-.AAA.,_.___,___.-¥ _ ..;.a_. a.
W.
l

16

lines for years. The orgin and pathology of diabetes is
as obscure as ever. The treatment remains unaltered.
The death-rate from diabetes is steadily increasing. It s
has increased threefold during the last- ﬁfty years.
Dr. Chapple says Professor Starling declares that if
you take away the dog he cannot go on with his ‘
researches. Then it is about time, I think, that he t
was relieved of this useless and cruel work, for the
more he experiments the more diabetes increases. It
is only clinical experience that will ever solve the
riddle.
Some of his conclusions have already been shown to be
contrary to clinical experience. The fact is, glycosuria, or
sugar in urine, produced by an artiﬁcial experiment, is
not the same thing as natural diabetes- It is merely a
passing storm. Hence no practical results can ever
follow. Even normal pancreatic juice cannot be
obtained owing to the sensitiveness of the pancreas
to operation. And all reliable chemical results have
been secured solely by examination of the juice
obtained from the dead bodies of well—fed dogs
suddenly killed.
It was Professor Starling himself who confessed to
the non-ﬁnality of these animal experiments. He told
the Royal Commission that “ the last experiment must
always be on man.” If then the last experiment must
always be on man, the ﬁrst scientiﬁc experiment
must be on man, and if the ﬁrst scientiﬁc experiment
must be on man, it is clear that all the preceding experi-
ments on lower animals must have been inconclusive. Dr.
Chapple says, “Professor Starling is a professor who
is teaching medical men to cure disease.” Will he '

 

 

 

kindly inform us which diseases Professor Starling has
taught us to cure ; it would be interesting? I confess
I know of none.

Dr. Chapple said :—~

“ Negative results are sometimes more valuable than
positive.” . ;

But why people should go on for centuries producing
negative results without getting any forrader and
(Oliver Twist like) still asking for more, passes my
comprehension.

 

 

 

 




 

17

If the anatomical and physiological conditions
of the animal experimented upon are quite different
from those of the human subject about whom infor ma-
tion is required, it stands to reason that the animal
experiment is no guide at all, and what was negative
in the animal might be positive in the human and
0206 versa.

Dr. Chapple went on:—

“ If you could give to-day to the mothers whose
children suffer from diabetes, and who are dying day
by day before their eyes, even hopes of a cure, would
they not willingly give all that they possess to carry
011 research work by operations on dogs ”.3 ”

I consider that Dr. Chapple is libelling the mothers
of England, and he is moreover stating a supposition
for which he has no scientiﬁc grounds.

GALL BLADDER AND JAUNDICE.
Dr. CHAPPLE says 2——

“ Vivisectionists had been able to differentiate all
the different causes of jaundice . . . entirely
owing to experiments on dogs.”

This is a most extraordinary assertion in which no
medical man with a reputation to lose will support
him. Jaundice may be caused by gall stones or foreign
bodies causing obstruction, or by pressure of tumours
or enlarged organs. Surely no experiments on dogs
are required for this ; the post—mortem table has
settled it years ago.

So with cirrhosis of the liver. Do you want a dog
to prove the presence of a gin-drinker’s liver ?

Poisons of various kinds have been known to
produce it.

Heart disease is another cause.
Fright can produce it. Men who have to give

' speeches in the House of Commons have been known

tolturn as yellow as a guinea just before. Could a
dog explain that ’8

 




 

 

 

Cancers, fevers, will do it. I know of nothing where
animal experiments have been of the least use in this
respect. Dr. Chapple even added: “Through these
experiments we have ascertained the diseases of the
gall bladder and how to relieve them by surgery.” I
deny that we owe the surgery of the gall bladder
to dogs. Lawson Tait was the ﬁrst to successfully
remove gall stones in 1878, and I have a letter
in my possession in which he says : “ Vivisection has
done nothing for surgery but lead to horrible bungling ”

THE KIDNEY.
Dr. CHAPPLE says :—

“ We have discovered that we are able to take one
kidney away altogether and that man does quite well.
This was only made possible by reason of experiments
on dogs having proved it to be possible.” "

This I emphatically deny.

There are cases on record of persons "born with only
one kidney who have lived. There are cases in which
’ persons have had one kidney diseased and useless for
years and yet they have lived. These were discovered
'post-mortem and not by dog experiments.

Hippocrates, the Greek surgeon, who lived 400 13.0.,
removed diseased and injured kidneys.

Erichsen, the great surgeon, says in Vol II. of his
work, p. 980.: “There are cases on record in which,
in consequence of a deep cut or stab in the loins, one
kidney has been wounded and forced out of a wound,

whence it has been removed, the patient making a .

good recovery. Thus, again, it has long been known
to pathologists that a person may live with one kidney
practically useless, either blocked by calculus or
destroyed by suppuration.”

Dr. Rose Bradford’s cruel experiments on the
kidneys of thirty—nine fox—terriers resulted in nothing.
When asked by the Royal Commission what had been
gained by them, he said' they discovered that an
animal did not suffer from any disease allied to human
Bright’s disease. He said this was the most important
point elucidated. Pray of what value was that 2




 

 

19

THE KNOWLEDGE OF SURGICAL PRACTICE.

Dr. CHAPPLE continued :—

“ No surgeon is entitled to put a knife into a man
experimentally; he is not entitled to do so until he
has proved by experiments and their results on dogs
that he can beneﬁt the human subject.”

I presume he would ﬁnd fault with Sir Henry
Morris, late President Royal College of Surgeons, who
told the Royal Commission (7,786) : “ The operation

. I did ﬁrst of all, and was the ﬁrst to do, was done quite

irrespective of any experiment on animals; that is,
the cutting of a stone out of a kidney . . . from
knowledge acquired by experience from operations On
the liver and other organs in the human subject.”

What would he say to Sir Frederick Treves ? This

is what he said in the course of an address at'

Birmingham in 1898 and published in all the medical
journals :

“ Many years ago I carried out on the Continent
sundry operations upon the intestines of dogs, but such
are the differences between the human and canine
bowel that when I came to operate on man I found ,I
was much hampered by my new experience, that I
had everything to unlearn, and that my experience
had done little but unﬁt me to deal with the human
intestine.”

Sir Wm. Fergusson, the great Sergeant Surgeon to
Queen Victoria, who was crowded with honours during
his lifetime, declared that experiments on dogs had
never initiated any feat of surgery. But now that
he is dead we are told that this great 'man was npt a
scientiﬁc surgeon because he didn’t believe in vivi-
section.

To what is due the success of modern surgery ’8

1. Anaesthetics
2. Asepsis.
3. Ligature and suture.

None of these were due to experiments on animals.

Asepsis was being practised successfully by Lawson
Tait, Granville Bantock and Savory at the very time

 




Lister was losing his patients with antisepsis, which
in consequence had to be discontinued.

THE DISCOVERY OF AN/ESTHETICS. .
Dr. CHAPPLE said :—
“ Sir James Simpson, who wanted to experiment ,
upon himself, went into a Chemist’s shop on one

 

occasion and asked for a certain drug. The chemist
replied that he did not think it would be safe to
experiment upon himself with it, ’ as it might prove
fatal. He suggested that it should ﬁrst be tried upon
a dog, and on that being done the drug did prove
fatal, thus proving that had Sir James Simpson ex—
perimented upon himself he would have died.”

Dr. Chapple has muddled up a story for which
there is no foundation. It is not that Simpson was
advised by a chemist to try chloroform on himself,
but the story goes that a lady’s dog went snifﬁng
round a Chemist’s shop and came upon chloroform
in a corner, and smelt it and rolled over, and this
led Simpson to his investigation. It is highly impro-
bable, if not absurd. A highly volatile and expensive
drug like chloroform was not likely to be left in a
basin on the ﬂoor of a Chemist’s shop, and a dog does
not go under chloroform quite so easily as that. It
is still more difﬁcult to keep it under without losing it ;
that is, when pushed to full anaesthesia. Fortunately-
Simpson depended upon no dog experiments. This
has been confessed by an authority Dr. Chapple will ‘
not question—Sir Lauder Brunton, who told the
Royal Commission (711849): “ The deﬁnite experi- i
ments in regard to its anaesthetic action were really
made by Professor Simpson upon himself and on
Dr. Matthews Duncan and one or two others.” Had
he trusted to dogs hewould have been misled.

And yet again and again Dr. Chapple cited instances
of what the surgeon can now do because of anaesthetics,
as if the latter knowledge depended upon dogs. All
Dr. Chapple’s chief claims and illustrations in this
respect may be completely cancelled, as they are based
upon a ﬁction of Dr. Chapple’s brain, and not upon
historical fact. ' '

 

 

 

 

 

W
W 44




 

21'

Even take morphia, another valuable drug for
relieving pain. Had Dr. Simpson or anyone else
been guided by its effect on the dog, he would assuredly
have killed himself. Thirty—seven grains of morphia
have been given to a dog without affecting its breath—
ing, whereas a single grain would in most eases be
fatal to a human being. Professor Hobday told
the Royal Commission that in only one instance
had he been able to kill a dog with morphia, and
“ I have tried with a large number.”

The other chief anaesthetics, ether and nitrous oxide
gas, were used for the ﬁrst time by the experimenters
trying the respective drugs on themselves.

_ THE VALUE OF EXPERIMENTS.
Dr. CHAPPLE said 2—— '

“ All we know about the cure of disease is gained
by experimentation.” ‘

This, partially, I admit, but not by experiments on
animals. There have been experiments provided and
performed by Nature in accident or disease in the
human subject which have provided the opportunity
for medical men to do their level best for their patients,
and it is to this clinical and post—mortem experience
we owe all the knowledge we possess to—day.

“Doctors have experimented on themselves,” says
Dr. Chapple. Of this I do not complain. If viviseetors
will undertake the task of experimenting upon one
another, it is a form of vivisection to which I shall
offer no objection. -

THE UNION OF VEINS.
Dr. CHAPPLE said :—

“ Thousands of people in the past have lost their
limbs because it was not known that a vein cut across
could be united. To—day hundreds of people, especially
after a war, are going about with whole limbs, simply
because experimentation on dogs have shown it to be
possible to attach the ends of the vein together and
the limb is saved.” '

Does Dr. Chapple mean to tell us that when a man
had a blood vessel cut through, from which he says

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

he was certain to die, that before the surgeon attempted
to suture together the cut ends of the vessel it was
necessary to ﬁrst deliberately cut the limb of a dog
and try the experiment on that ? Does he ask us to
believe such a thing ? I have seen the main vessels of
a dgg’s limb cut through with practically no bleeding
at al.

The real success in uniting together veins lay in
discovering the right kind of thread. Common-sense
would suggest the union itself. My old friend, Dr.
Granville Bantock, had more to do with discovering
the right thread than anyone else, and he did no
experiments on dogs to ﬁnd it out.

SIR CHARLES BELL AND NERVES.

Dr. CHAPPLE further stated :———

“Dr. Bell performed operations on rabbits in
1811, and upon the spinal cord, which led to the
diagnosis of cerebral disease.”

Bell justiﬁed his great discovery of the double
action of the spinal nerves in 1807, 6.6., four years
before Dr. Chapple says he performed operations on
rabbits. Therefore, unfortunately for Dr. Chapple’s
claim, the discoveries were made prior to the experi-
ments.

These are the words of Bell himself, published in his
“Nervous System of the Human Body ” :

“Experiments have never'been the means of dis-
covery and a survey of what has been attempted
of late years in physiology will prove that the opening
of living animals has done more to perpetuate error
than to conﬁrm the just views taken from the study
of anatomy and natural motions.”

Later he said :———

“ In a foreign view of my former papers the results
have been considered as a further proof in favour
of experiments. They are, on the contrary, deductions
from anatomy, and I have had recourse to experi-
ments, not to form my own opinions, but to impress
them upon others. It must be my apology that my

 

 

 




 

 

 

23

utmost efforts of persuasion were lost while I urged
my statements on the ground of anatomy alone.”

That is Bell’s own answer to Dr. Chapple.

BRAIN SURGERY.
Dr. CHAPPLE said :—

“ The man who undergoes surgery to—day knows
nothing about it . . . no pain whatever.”

That has nothing to do with experiments on animals.
That is the result of anaesthetics which I have shown
depended solely upon experiments done on the dis—
coverers themselves.

He is reported in Hansard to have added:

“ The skull can be trepanned and all the internal
viscera taken out and examined and put back.”

Surely Dr. Chapple must have been misreported.
He cannot mean to make such an assertion as that
It is an absolute impossibility. So far, however, as
trepanning is concerned, it was practised in pre-
historic times. Dr. Muntz presented nineteen skulls
to the Smithsonian Institution that showed evidence of
surgical trephining.‘ And SirVictor Horsley has admitted
that there is sufﬁcient proof that patients survived
these operations of. 5,000 years ago. Hippocrates,
according to Dr. Adams, in his “ Life ” of this great
man, states that he used the trepan in injuries of the
head—that was 400 years before Christ. This know-
ledge had nothing to do with dogs

NO CRUELTY IN VIVISBCTION.
Dr. CHAPPLE said there was:——
“ Absolutely nothing cruel or inhumane in the

experiment on the dog”. . .“ The horrid pictures about
tying down the legs of. those animals” because of

the torture. “There is something wicked about

that. It is a pure invention ”——“ a lying invention.”

Dogs’ legs are tied down and they are ﬁxed, as I
have witnessed. The instruments we exhibit and the
illustrations we show are of those actually used, and
scientiﬁc instrument makers publish illustrated cata—
logues of them.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

24

Were the experiments done on dogs at University
College by Dr. Crile perfectly humane, of which Dr.
Geo. Wilson, one of the Royal Commission, said:
“ I may say, as a medical man, admitting everything
about anaesthesia, that I read them with horror at
the time, and even now I cannot see the justiﬁcation
for them ” 23

'Were the experiments of Dr. Rose Bradford, with
their shocking sequelae described by himself, on the
thirty-nine fox-terriers humane, when he took out
one kidney and, then excised portions of the remaining
kidney piecemeal periodically in order to see how
long and with how little kidney a dog could live ?

Were the horrible experiments associated with
removal of the pituitary body—~done in this country
by Sir Victor Horsley——humane ?

Are the fearful experiments on dogs with sleeping
sickness Virus not cruel and inhumane ?

Or those by Dr. Rose Bradford in tying a dog’s

ureter until its kidney swelled to the size of a human ‘

ﬁst. ?

Is it not in dogs that experiments on the pancreas
and other abdominal organs are carried out, and did
not Dr. Thane, the chief Home Ofﬁce Inspector,
tell the Royal Commission (1649): “ In making
ﬁstula-e into the pancreas, gall bladder, stomach, and
so on, it is quite likely that the animals suffer to a
certain extent” ?

Did he not say that “animals experimented on
under Certiﬁcate B do suffer severely while under
observation after the experiment”? And are not
most of those-experiments of Certiﬁcate B done on
dogs ?

In the case of inoculations did not Professor Thane
admit :

“ In some cases under Certiﬁcate A the injection
is followed by great pain and suffering”?

And yet, in spite of these undeniable instances, Dr.
Chapple says there is “absolutely nothing cruel or
inhumane in the experiment on the dog.” ‘

 

 

 




 

 

 

25

DISTEMPER.

Dr. Chapple spoke of the value of inoculation for
distemper in dogs. The same claim was made last year,
during the debate on the Dogs Bill, when the expert
on the staff of The Y orkshire Weekly Post wrote :—

DIS‘TEMPER AND INOCULATION. “AN UNFOUNDED
BOAST.”

“ It is true that- there are still a few enthusiasts
who believe in inoculation for distemper, yet in the“
light of the great coneensus of opinion against the
theory no one has any right to raise the hopes of
fanciers by boldly stating that a ‘ cure ’ for this appal~
ling disease has been discovered, or, better still, a
means of preventing its attack. .”

“ The great majority of fanciers have long since
come to the conclusion that inoculation is absolutely
useless. Actually we know of none who hold the
contrary opinion.”

HYDROPHOBIA.

Dr. CHAPPLE declared :-——

“ Hydrophobia has been abolished in this country
by vivisection on dogs and nothing else.”

The Pasteurian remedy has never been used in
this country at all. Pasteur, who seemed afraid to let
the precious remedy out of his own hands, said there
was no need to adopt it here, that quarantine would
answer every purpose. Hydrophobia was cured by
clearing stray dogs out of the streets, so that they could
not be chased and harried by mischievous boys and
stupid men, and compelling every owner to afﬁx a
dog collar.

“ It has been abolished because we have found the
cause of it,” he says.

Perhaps he will tell us what that cause is. If he
presumes it is a germ, that germ has never yet been
discovered. Pasteur supposed it was in the spinal
cord, and as he couldn’t ﬁnd it, he made a mash of the
whole cord and injected it into people, so as to give
them a mild hydrophobia. And I have a list of 3,000




 

 

26

cases collected from the Pasteur Institutes themselves
which have died of hydrophobia after having been
protected against it. And in several well authenticated
instances it was proved that the dog which bit the
patient had not suffered from hydrophobia at all.
Pasteur’s remedy does not cure hydrophobia—it
gives it. .

“ The death-rate from cases came down from 165 per
cent. to '3 per cent.”

I challenge Dr. Chapple to prove that the genuine
death-rate ever was 16 per cent., or that it is less
to—day than before Pasteurism was adopted. Pasteur’s
statistics are fraudulent upon the face of them.

Dr. Geo. WilsOn, a member of the late Royal Com-
‘mission, says : “ Pasteur carefully screened his
statistics.”

For thirty years before inoculation the yearly deaths
from hydrophobia in France were only thirty in a popula-
tion. of 40,000,000. For thirty years after it was
one hundred, although the population was lessened by
thejcession of Alsace-Lorraine. One report a few years
ago showed 300 deaths. Pasteur claimed to have
saved 1,500 persons annually from France alone from
hydrophobia. If this were true, at the rate of 16 per
cent, there ought to have been 240 deaths per annum,
and yet there were only thirty. The 1 per cent. claim
is obtained by reckoning in hundreds of cases that
were never bitten by mad dogs at all.

Dr. Carlo Ruata, speaking of Italy, says that before
Pasteurism the mean of the annual deaths from
rabies was sixty. After, 2'.e., from 1887—1900, the total
deaths were 1,193, or a mean annual death-rate of
eighty—ﬁve.

The fact is Pasteur’s remedy does not cure people

who have been bitten by a mad dog, but only those
who are in a funk about it.

ABDOMINAL SURGERY.

Dr. CHAPPLE narrated a remarkable story :—

A hospital had several cases of intestinal obstruc-
tion, and the patients died because the surgeons

 

'7‘

 

 




 

 

27

bungled so dreadfully in accommodating what was,
I suppose, a surgical button. So they practised their
hands on dogs, and thus saved their patients.

I consider this a very poor excuse for the surgeons’
bungling ; they should have practised, and could
have practised equally well, or better, on dead human
bodies in the post-mortem room. It is there where all
competent surgeons gain their surgical skill. But pray
where was this done? In England it is illegal to
vivisect for manual dexterity.

What is much more to the point is the fact that
all the great abdominal surgeons are agreed that
experiments on dogs have only misled them.

Dr. CHAPPLE further stated :——

“Sections of the bowel may be removed and put
back.”

All abdominal surgery dates from the ﬁrst successful
case of ovariotomy performed by Robert Houston
in 1701, without any previous experiments on animals.
It was after this that vivisection was resorted to, and
led to multitudinous blunders. Ephraim McDowell
then achieved further success in 1809 without any
reference to dogs. Baker Brown subsequently brought
ovariotomy down to 10 per . cent. Keith reduced it
further.

Lawson Tait writes as follows in his work on “ The
Uselessness of Vivisection,” p. 27 :

“ As soon as Keith’s results were established ab-
dominal surgery advanced so rapidly that now, only
six years after, there is not a single organ in the
abdomen that has not had numerous operations
performed on it successfully. I have had, as is well
known, some share in this advance, and I say without
hesitation, that I have been led astray again and
again by the published results of experiments on
animals, and I have had to discard them entirely.”

NO PAIN AFTERWARDS.
Dr. CHAPPLE said :—

. “ You have to remember that not only is the Opera-
tlon upon the dog painless, but the after effects are

 




 

 

 

28

painless also.” “ They are given 1%- grains, some-
times more, of morphia, before the operation. That
keeps them asleep for from twenty-four to thirty-six
hours, and all the post-operative pain is relieved.”

Why, Sir Henry Morris (late President R.C.S.)
has declared morphia is not an anaesthetic at all I

Even the arch vivisector, Claude Bernard, declared
that it only destroyed the dog’s power of resistance,
and

Dr. Thane, the Inspector, said it could only produce
anaesthesia if given in a fatal dose, and yet Dr. Chapple
talks of the dog sleeping for twenty—four hours and
then waking up.

Numbers of painful experiments on dogs have
been done with morphia alone.

Dr. Geo. Wilson, after hearing all the evidence of
the vivisectors at the Royal Commission, said in his
Memorandum to the Report, p. 76 :

“ It is when morphia is used either by itself, or
along with chloroform or ether, that some degree of
uncertainty creeps in, because dogs can take enormous
non-lethal doses of this drug amounting, according to
Professor Starling, to as much as 15 grains, and,
according to others, even much larger doses.”

My time is up, so I will conclude.

 

 




DR. CHAPPLE’S SECOND SPEECH.

DR. W. A. CHAPPLE: The speech which we have
just heard is not a reply to the statements that I
have made in my speech to-night, but a reply to
my speech in the House of Commons. If I had known
that that were so I should have fortiﬁed myself with
more ﬁgurings than I can ﬁnd at my disposal to-night,
or at least than I can, at the moment, put my ﬁnger
upon. I thought I was to speak for half an hour
upon the case for retaining dogs as subjects for vivi-
srction. I did conﬁne myself entirely to that. Had
I known that I was expected to repeat my speech,
and to defend it against the statement that what
I said was not true, I should have fortiﬁed myself
with a few ﬁgures.

MR. CHANCELLOR (handing up a copy of Hansard’s
Report): I made it quite clear to you in my Speech
that I wished the statements you had made in the
House to be repeated before a medical man qualiﬁed
to answer you. These are the words: “I presume
that the hon. Member is prepared to stand by what
he has said, which will appear in the Ofﬁcial Report
to-morrow. Is he prepared to reassert those opinions
upon a platform, where they can be met by a man
with similar qualiﬁcations to his own, and where they
can be subjected to the examination of reason and
of fact ? ” .

DR. W. A. CHAIPLE : As a matter of fact, that was
a vely garbled report, as Dr. Hadwen was kind enough
to suggest when he referred to it—where it states
that the brain was trepanned, and the viscera were
taken out. As he very kindly suggested I could
not possibly have made that statement. '

MR. CHANCELLOR: This is not a question of the
correctness of what you said, but of the terms on
which the debate was arranged.

DR. CHAPPLE : I did not understand it so. The
report makes it appear that the viscera of the brain
was taken out and put back again. Dr. Hadwen,
with his medical knowledge, has seen that that could
not possibly be done.

 




 

30

I will just mention one or two ﬁgures before I go on
to deal with the early part of his speech. He challenges
the ﬁgures. If he says these things are not true I have
nothing more to say. If he says that hydrophobia
is due to people taking funk, I have nothing more
to say. I cannot argue with that at all. All I can say
is, that no authority I have ever read, no medical
man I have ever met, has ever taught that hydro-
phobia was caused by funk.

DR. HADWEN : I did not say so.
SEVERAL MEMBERS: He did not say so.

, The CHAIRMAN: He said that the cases that die
are hydrophobia.

DR. CHAPPLE : I do not care which he takes.
The cases that are cured are funk; the cases that
die are hydrophobia. That is a kind of argument
to which I cannot reply. If he is going to say that
a case that is cured is funk, and that a case that has
died might be hydrophobia, I leave it to those who
are present here to estimate the value of that state—
ment He says he does not know the cause of hydro-
phobia. I claimed that it was due to an organism.
The organism has not been isolated. We might not
be able to isolate it, and cultivate it outside the body,
and reinoculate it into another animal. That is the
course to be pursued when you are absolutely certain
of the deﬁnite germ that is the cause of the disease.

HYDROPHOBIA GERM ANTICIPATED. ‘

Germs in many of these diseases have been anticipated
long before they are actually discovered. They fulﬁl
all the conditions that the germ of the disease fulﬁls. .
They are communicated in certain serums, or juices,
or ﬂuids; but we may not be able to discover the
process by which they can be isolated from their
fellows. There are many different kinds of germs
that live together, and the process of taking, say,
the germ of hydrophobia from all the others, and
cultivating it outside the body in some suitable medium,
and reinoculating it into a healthy animal—that is the
process that proves. That process has not yet been
performed ; but that does not in the least weaken the

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

31

fact that the cause of hydrophobia is an organism,
and that it is a communicable disease from dog to
dog, and from dog to man, and from man to dog.
It was because Pasteur, by his experiments on dogs,
succeeded in discovering its cause, that he was able
to warn us on this side how to prevent the disease
spreading. It is all very well to say that we abolished
hydrophobia in this country by muzzling dogs and
preventing them from communicating it one to another.
We did that, but we did it as a protective remedy
after Pasteur had taught us all we know about hydro-
phobia. He taught us that we can prevent the pos-
sibility of inoculation from one dog to another, or
from dog to man, by adopting the preventive measure
of muzzling. He also taught us how to cure the disease.
The ﬁgures are as I have stated. In one year, out of
142 patients bitten by animals proved by the un—
answerable test of inoculation to have been rabid,
there was only one death. During twelve years,
out of 2,872 cases, only twenty deaths occurred,
representing a mortality of less than 1 per cent.
I gave ‘3 per cent. It depends on what years and
countries you take.

WHENCE THE STATISTICS COME.

But the unanswerable fact is that these ﬁgures
have been given by men who have seen the cures and
kept the statistics.

How is hydrophobia cured? You inoculate a
rabbit with hydrophobia and take out its spinal
cord which contains the organism. You, expose it
from one to fourteen days. The longer you expose it
the less virulent is the inoculation given from it. An
exposure of twelve days will render the dose mild,
and the patient recovers. The patient can resist a
dose after an exposure of fourteen days, then of
thirteen days, then of twelve, and so on down to one
day, which is a virulent dose, and would have killed
him if given him at ﬁrst. In that way the disease
is anticipated before it causes death.

DIABETES STILL OBSCURE.

In his opening remarks Dr. Hadwen said that the
research in diabetes was empty of results. I know

 




 

 

32

that, We have not yet established the cause of dia—
betes, and we have not established the cure. But
that is what we are after, and those men who are
carrying on their researches believe that if allowed to
pursue their course of investigation, ultimately they
will be able to cure the disease. Dr. Hadwen says
that inoculation can be of no good, because diabetes
is increasing. It is increasing because we do not
know what the cause or the cure of it is.

Dr. Hadwen referred to experiments of doctors on
the intestine. You have to perform your operation.
You cannot experiment in this country in order to
increase your manual dexterity, but you are allowed
to do it in the Colonies. This happened in Melbourne.
A man who suffered from intestinal obstruction died?
in a particular hospital. ‘ It was suggested that death
was due to the fact that the surgical treatment had
not been done properly. The case was one of cancer
of the colon. Murphy’s button had been introduced,
but had never been used before there. You cut out
the cancerous part of the intestine, then bring the-
two ends together and suture them, and you get the
lumen of the bowel continuous. One of the surgeons,
in order to increase his manual dexterity -n the use of
Murphy’s button, went and asked a butcher if he
would allow him to experiment on the intestine of a
shee .

p EXPERIMENT ON A DEAD SHEEP.

The butcher took his knife and slashed it across
the animal’s throat, as people do here in London——
the most cruel and barbarous method of slaughter that
you can conceive. I wish that those people who want
to limit the amount of suffering in lower animals would
advocate some more humane method of slaughter with
regard to the sheep.

SEVERAL MEMBERS: We are doing so.

Only 6 per cent. of the 90 per cent. of experi-
ments performed on dogs are cutting experi-
ments at all, and nearly all the animals are killed
before they come out of the anaesthetic. Well, as
soon as that sheep died, the surgeon performed
the operation with Murphy’s button, and did it fre-
quently until he got perfectly dexterous with it. On

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

'33

the following day he performed the operation on a
patient with success. I want to ask you, supposing
the animal experimented on had been a dog and not a
sheep, would the surgeon'have been justiﬁed in carrying
out the experiment in order to inorease his manual
dexterity, and then operate on the patient and save
his life '§ If done on a dog, the dog would be put under
chloroform. Would you say that the husband of a
woman would raise his hand against my performing
an operation on a dog if I could say to him, "‘ If you
will allow me to perform an operation on this dog, I
will give it morphia and chloroform and keep it out of
pain, and, by means of what I ascertain from that I
will increase the chance of your wife’s recovery ”———do
you think that man would object ? I can imagine the
woman saying, “ I will not have it done,” but not the
man. The very fact that diabetes is increasing, and
we do not know the cause, justiﬁes the claim for
vivisection with a view to ﬁnding out the cause.

The experiments, Dr. Hadwen says, should be on
man. Which man? Would you allow any surgeon
to come to you and say, “ I have never done this
operation before, but if you allow me to experiment
upon you, I will see what the result will be ? ” What
would you say 2 You would say, “ Try it on a dog.”
It is an outrageous suggestion to make that persons
should operate upon themselves. I know a number
of medical men who are constantly operating upon
themselves, but they have no right whatever to
'operate upon their patients experimentally.

EXPERIMENTS ON MAN.

DR. HADWEN: What I said was that Professor
Starling told the Royal Commission that the last
experiment must always be on man; and, I added,
if that be the case the ﬁrst scientiﬁc experiment will
have to be on man, the previous experiments on
animals must have been inconclusive.

DR. CHAPPLE : I do not think I misrepresented you
materially. Dr. Hadwen throws aside all experimen—
tation in the past, and he won’t admit that any good
has come from it at all. I suppose he is almost alone
in the profession on that. I do not suppose there are

 




 

 

34

any who will get up and say that the sum of our
knowledge to-day, in the treatment of disease, is not
due in a very large measureto our experiments on
animals, and very largely to experiments on dogs.
He said it was a libel on mothers to think that mothers
would welcome experiments on dogs, if by performing
them you could give those parents hope of saving their
children. If you appealed to any mother and told her
that her child had diabetes, but that experiments on
dogs might reveal a way by which that disease could
be prevented or cured, I do not believe there is a
mother in this Country who would not say, “ Yes, you
can have all my money to buy all the dogs you can get,
if you can give me any hope whatever of curing this
child who you say has a fatal disease.” This libel I
will continue to make.

' Dr. Hadwen told us a great deal about jaundice.
With regard to that disease, certainly there are things
found out at the post-mortem. But there are things
not found out at the post—mortem, and those things not
found out on the post—mortem table are found .by
experiments on dogs. The fact of experiments gomg
on is sufﬁcient to show that those men want experi-
ments because they are necessary for the discovery
of means, by which disease can be controlled or
abolished. - ~

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

Kr 44

DR. HADWEN’S FINAL REPLY.

DR. HADWEN: Dr. Chapple stated, at the outset
of his reply, that I did not ansWer what he said this
evening. The greater part of his speech may be
summed up in one sentence—Trust the vivisector. As
to diseases, he mentioned three only—diabetes, dis-
temper and cancer. I answered his statement as to
diabetes and distemper. I will answer him now
with regard to cancer. But, ﬁrst of all, I would like
to say that his 6 per cent. of cutting operations
means 5,000 cases in the course of the year. He says
I stand alone in the Profession with regard to my
views. I do not stand alone. But even if I were, like
Galileo, to stand alone in the midst of so many people,
it does not prove that I am wrong. It is for Dr.
Chapple to prove that I am wrong. In his second
speech he has not made a single attempt to disprove .
a single statement that I have made. He has simply
repeated the statistics about hydrophobia. He has not
answered the crushing and unanswerable answer that
I have given to those statistics, which he has taken
from the book of Mr. Stephen Paget, and which I know
as well as he does. It is all very well to appeal to the
sentiment of mothers, and so on; but we want to
know what are the diseases that have been cured by
experiments on animals? What are the discoveries
that have been made? I say this emphatically in
the presence of this assembly, before Dr. Chapple,
that I have studied this question from both sides most
thoroughly. Brought up, as I was, to believe in
vivisection, I have come to the conclusion—~and I am
prepared to maintain it—that not one single thing has
ever resulted from experiments upon living animals
that has been of the slightest beneﬁt‘in the amelioration
or cure of human disease. I challenge Dr. Chapple to
disprove that statement.

DOG-CANCER NOT HUMAN CANCER.

Now with regard to cancer, he says that cancer
may, be. given to dogs. ,

This has been tried and it has failed. You cannot
get human cancer to grow in a dog any more than you

 




 

 

36

can in a mouse, and I maintain that all the thousands
of experiments which are being carried on by the
Cancer Research Fund and other places are being
carried on with a bogus cancer, and thousands of
pounds a year are being wasted, thousands of animals
tortured, without one discovery ever having been
made, or ever likely to be made, by such foolish
methods. All that has been discovered so far is that
there are seventy different kinds of mouse tumour.
God knows there is enough human material for
examination; why should suffering be extended by
inducing in sensitive animals artiﬁcial diseases which
bear no relation to the human type ?

With regard to making dogs suffer for the sake of
their companions, I maintain that such argument
is totally illogical. If this were the case it would be
right to vivisect human beings for the sake of others ;
and this is being asked for. Dr. Preston King, in The
Lancet, has asked that criminals, under capital punish-
ment, should be given the opportunity of allowing
themselves to be vivisected, because, he says, “we
are wandering in the dark, waiting for the light which
these human experiments alone can furnish ”-——the
most eloquent answer that can be given to the vivi-
sector, showing that animal experimentation has
failed.

* WHERE ARE, THE CURBS?

Dr. Chapple says, “ Are we going to deny the whole
community throughout the country, and the sick
and suffering throughout the world, the beneﬁts of
vivisection ? ” This is pure sentiment.- But what I
again ask is this: that Dr. Chapple will descend
to plain facts and deﬁnite issues, and inform us precisely
what diseases and what suffering have been assuaged.
I repeat that I know nothing whatever that has been
gained by vivisectional experiments. Vivisection is a ‘
passing fashion of to-day, it is being used more
now than perhaps ever before. As The British M ethical
J carnal said in itscolumns, only a short time ago,
with regard to all these various fashions, “They
are like systems of philosophy and fashions in dress ;
they have their little day and cease to be.”; “ Back

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

37

numbers of the journal,” it was added, “ are.the
, graveyards of discarded theories, of which the varlous
forms of quackery of to-day are the ghosts.” I am

quite sure we shall see the whole of this» cult of vivi-
section pass away.

The country is becoming more humanitarian every
day, and I think it is a terrible scandal that these
helpless, innocent, sentient, sensitive creatures should
be tortured in this way, day after day, year after
year, by vivisectors, when nothing whatever has been
gained by it. Nor can anything be gained, because
the whole system of vivisection is unscientiﬁc on this
principle—that neither anatomically nor physiologically
can animals be compared with man.

It is an immoral process, too, for you have no right
to do evil that good may come. And it is a cowardly
process to try to take advantage of poor creatures
in this way to get some beneﬁt for ourselves, especially
with the whole history and experience of ages. behind
us to show' that nothing at all has been gained, or
ever can be gained, by this cruel and diabolical process.

THE CHAIRMAN’S CLOSING REMARKS.

THE CHAIRMAN : Ladies and Gentlemen,———It remains
for me to express on your behalf our thanks to these
two gentlemen for giving us this debate, which, I hope,
has been found instructive. My own object in summon-
ing the meeting was to get put by a gentleman qualiﬁed
to do so, the case which is at any rate my own case,
namely, what I tried to put into my short speech
that night—that these experiments on animals are

misleading, unscientiﬁc, and not likely to lead to any
beneﬁcial result.

COL. Looxwoon : What were these two gentlemen
asked to do ?

 




 

 

 

38

THE CHAIRMAN : My speech was an invitation to
Dr. Chapple to repeat, in the presence of a medical
man, what he had said in the House.

COL. LOOKWOOD : Dr. Hadwen was to answer
Dr. Chapple’s speech given in the House ’9

THE CHAIRMAN : He was to anticipate the speech
being repeated, and to answer it. I think those of
you who are members of the Committee on the Dogs
Bill will, at any rate, realise that there is a case for
that Bill, and come to the Committee a little less
inclined to submit to the mere citation of authority.
and perhaps give wider consideration to the arguments
on the other side.

COL. LOCKWOOD: I am sure, Mr.~ Chairman, we
all accord you our best thanks for presiding to—night,

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

w. SPEAIGHT & SONS,
PRINTERS,

 

 

FETTER LANE, E.C.

 




 

 

 

 

 




