CONGRESSIONAL RECORD CLIPPINGS
1868 Columbia Road, N,W,
Washington, D,C, 20009

W735

’ A sr fro

 

 

 

s a program begun in Min-
;_""nesota by the Minnesota Humane Society
.2 years ago: The hearing-ear dog pro-
gram. It is an innovative response to the
needs of the deaf and has been so suc-
cessful that it has generated national
and international interest. 1 ‘
The world of silence can be a very
1011er and dangerous one for those who

 

,,~ceiye comfort or warning through sound.

A mother unable to hear the cries of her '

child A youngster Who cannot play out-
doors because he is unable to detect on-
Coming danger until it IS upon him. Sim-
ple, yet necessary Warning-conVenience
systems We take for granted such as the
phone, alarm clock, doorbell, even news
programs are all lost to the person who
i" cannot hear them. 7

This is the bleak picture the deaf have
had to face. All this may be in the past,
however Since many dedicated, highly
talented people guided by Mrs Ruth

the Prevention Of Cruelty, began train-
=ing hearing-ear dOgs fer the deaf.
Since the program started in 19374, the
State Humane Society has trained and
placed six dogs With hearing-impaired
persOns In its preliminary stages, the
project was aimed toward training dogs
through hand signals to distinguish be-;-
1 tween different sounds, alert their owners

 

11E

February £23, 1.9 ”6.

to the noise and lead them to the Source.
The special training requires using in-
telligent breeds, though the dogs do not
need the level of intelligence seeing-eye
dogs require.
must often make decisions for their
owners, the hearing- -ear dog will not
have to make ultimate decisions. He will
simply have to be able to alert his owner

 

to an existing situation which reduires
action. . ,

The program has genei ated so much
demand for trained dogs to act as ears
ifor the deaf that it has outgrown the
‘ State Humane Society’s ability to re-

spOnd. On February 13,1976, Mr. John

BetzendOrfer, Jr, President of the Amer—

ican Humane Association, the national

federation Of some 1,100 humane agen-
i cies in the United States and Canada, ac-

eepted the program and will make every

attempt to train animals for this purpose

The Minnesotoa Society for Prevention

~ “of Cruelty plans to continue coordinating. .. .,

the hearing-ear dog training for the peo-
ple of Minnesota.
Mr President, I ask unanimous con— __
sent that a recent article from the Balti- ‘
_ more Evening Sun and a letter Afrom the
Minnesota Society fOr Prevention -‘ of
Cruelty explaining this program and its
future be printed in the RECORD. 7
‘ There being no Objection, the material

 

VHEARING- . AR DOG ”mNHS TA
RESPONSE T . «R‘SB s OF THE

Mr. President, I

have lOst their hearing and no longer re- ‘

Deschene of the anesota Society for »

‘ was ordered to be printed in the RECORD,
1 as follows:

1

[From the Evening Sun,Ba1t1m01e,
Dec. 16, 1975]

HEARING EAR DOGS TRAINED AS COMPANIONS
FOR DEAF

(By Ellen Hawks)

A baby is crying in the night and the
mother, who is deaf, doesn’t hear. But the
family dog awakens her and leads her to the

cih 1d.

Once again, a totally deaf pe1 son has been
helped by a hearing ear dog.

There are only six known hearing ear dogs

in the world, according to Ruth Deschene,
director of the Minnesota Society for the
Prevention of Cruelty, where the program
began in Octobe1, 1973. -
- In a telephone conversation from the
sO‘ciety’S ofﬁce in St. Paul, Mrs. Deschene ex-
plained how the piogram began and vowed,
“The day will come when a deaf person will
be able to apply for a hea1ing ear dog just as
a blind peison can now apply for a seeing eye

0

.“A, deaf St. Paul resident named Elva
Jahnke wrote to a local TV .statiOn’s action
news program asking for help in locating
someone who could train a dog to help her
.hear. Her reasons? She had owned a dog
, that had instinctively learned to detect
, sounds for hei, but it had been killed. Afraid
she would never ﬁnd another one as smart,
she wanted help. Her lettei was forwarded
to us.

'. “We became interested and called several
services for the deaf, representatives of a
hearing society, and a highly qualiﬁed obedi-
. ence dog trainer and we gathered to discuss
Mrs. Jahnke’s potentially exciting 1eq‘uest.\
The result was that we volunteered to take
on an experimental program of traiwning

An SPC board member, a dog trainer with
20 years of experience, found a ti ainer named
Agnes McGr‘ath who took on the entire job,

.' Mrs. Deschene said. Local organizations and
clubs paid for the trainer’s salary because
the SPC could not afford it.

During the two years that the Minnesota
SPC was initiating the program—“before it "
outgrew us”—-—-six dogs were trained and given

to deaf persons. Fiveb are in St. Paul and, “One
deg went to Lexington Ky., with a person who

 

Where seeing-eye dogs , '




 

  

   
  
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
  
   
 
  
  
  
  
   
  
   
   
   
  
  
  
    
  
   
   
   
    
  

  
 
 
 
 
  
   
  
   
  

 

 

   
 

  

 
 

».

   

_,.--~..,,‘a.-.-=~‘n~M-un1¢*““J‘WV'mf t.‘ " “

 
    
 

 

.. w...” ,NMWD’M'

“A“ w.

Pass/M .
February 23, 1976

heard about our work and came to St. Paul to
inquire.”

Four of the dogs were small and of mixed
breed, taken right from the humane society
shelter. A purebred Shetland sheep dog was
donated as was a golden retriever.

The small mixed breeds train as well as, if
not better than the purebreds, says the di-
rector. ‘

Puppies are chosen for their instinctive
curiosity. When one out of a gathering of
puppies 9 to 10 weeks old breaks from the
group to follow a ball that has been rolled,
it is chosen for training. Also, when a mirror
is placed in the middle of the group, the

‘ puppy that looks into the mirror, then goes '

behind it to see where that other .puppy,
is, is an excellent candidate for a hearing
ear dog. ‘

' “First the dogs were trained in obedience
at an age depending upon their readiness to
train. Then sound keying began,” Mrs.
Deschene. ,

“In obedience training, adog is taught
never to touch. the trainer. With hearing ear
training we had to accomplish the obedience,
then teach the dog to alert its owner to
sounds.” '

Working with the dog and the prospective
master, the trainer went into the home and,
depending upon the needs there, would add
additional training or-might concentrate on

a particular need.

Hearing ear dogs are trained to hear every
sound that its deaf owner should but does
not hear. -

A knock on the door, a crying baby, a car

., accident, a ﬁre siren, or a pan boiling over in

the kitchen are some of the sounds. In addi—
tion, a deaf person, like anyone else, might
step off a curb onto the street unaware of
an oncoming car, but he would not hear a
warning horn. « , ’

A small black mutt named Jody was trained

. for Mrs. Jahnke, and Mrs. Deschene recalls

the momentous day “for us all” when Mrs.
Jahnke came to the society with her son
and husband, to ofﬁcially accept Jody. “The
trainer brought the small black dog into a
room ﬁlled with those people who were so
vitally interested in the program.

“There was only one deaf person—+Mrs.
Jahnke——and Jody had not at that time
worked with her..The trainer put down the
dog’s leash and motioned it to relax. We
couldn’t believe it when Jody relaxed, then
got-up and walked over to Mrs. J ahnke, put<
ting his head on her lap."

Mrs. Deschene‘s calm, cultured voice be-
gins to bubble over the telephone wires as
she recalls the next encounter with Jody.

“Jody had lived with Mrs. J ahnke only ﬁve
days when they returned to the ofﬁce to
demonstrate the success we had scored. We
were in a room with several people, Jody, the
trainer and Mrs. Jahnke. A planned knock

' on the door tOOk Jody to Mrs. Jahnke, not

the trainer. “That ‘Was almpst unbelievable
to us, that the dog would go to a deaf master
of only ﬁve days when its trainer of many
weeks was standing right there.

“Our work was so successful that we cut—
grew it,” the director repeated. “On Decem—
ber 11, we are turning our training manual,
ﬁlms and all information about our hearing
ear dog program over to the American Hu-
mane Association in Denver. The executive
director of the program for AHA will be l‘v ii»-
ton Searle. '

Mrs. Deschene hopes the AHA will develop
a national “or even international” training
center. She, feels certain that hearing ear
dogs dogs will be given the same courtesy as
seeing eye dogs and will be able to travel
anywhere with their owners. “Deafness is not
readily apparent; some proof may be neces-
sary,” she added. ' '

As Mrs. Deschene ended her conversation
about the program that “thrills me each
time I see it demonstrated,” she added every

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD CLIPPINGS
Date: FEB 23 3975

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD _..,.~ S .

handle this on a national and international

 

 

1868 Columbia Road, N.w.
Washington , D . C . 20009

N

interesting animal dimension to help for the
deaf : “We also , believe that cats cai‘i be
trained to hear for their deaf owners and to
lead them to certain sounds."

 

MINNESOTA SOCIETY FOR
“ PREVENTION OF CRUELTY, -
MINNESOTA HUMANE SOCIETY,
‘ .. St. Paul, M 7mm, February 6, 1976.
, DEAR FRIEND: We appreciate your interest
in our Hearing Ear Dog Program. I regret that
I have not been able to answer each letter
personally. HOWever, our Board of Directors
has now voted to turn the program~ over
to The American Humane Association, the
National Federation, with which we afﬁliate.
It has become necessary for us to do this
because the program has out-grown us! We
have neither the money nor the personnel,to

 

 

basis, and the need is great, if the number of
letters we haVe received is any indication.
We hope to continue to train for the peo-
ple of our own State or rather tocoordi-
nate the training. ‘ .
we are a~bureau of the State of Minnesota
and our Governor Wendell Anderson will be

 

presenting the Hearing Ear Dog program to '

AHA, for us, at ‘his earliest possible con-
venience. Mr. Milton Searle of AHA and AHA
President Joseph Q. Betzendorfer, Jr., will
be accepting the program for AHA. , 5

Please bear with all of us. Getting the i
National Program set up will take time but
your letter is being given to AHA, so you will i
be kept advised of the progress of the pro- 3‘
gram. We have proven that dogs can be
trained to act as ears for the hearing im-
paired. It is only a matter of time’until per-
sons desiring such an animal will ﬁnd it
possible toobtain one. _

Thank you for your patience and interest
in the program. Our very best wishes to you.
Together, 1 know we can make this a most
rewarding program.

1 Test sincerely yours,
(.Mrs.) Horn DESCHENE,
“ Executice Director. I

 

, CONGRESSIONAL RECORD CLIPPINGS
/ 1868 Columbia Road, N.w,
Washington, D.C, 20009 F

Date: MAR 2 01915

_ -...£o v‘wul w Vin-LC, Hume, UWn-

ers’ 14%th .9) r 12:159—-
| ' 5.81:: A06 - .-
. At the request 01: Mr. TU “I"

   
     
 
 
    

 
   
     

(£8. 81].,
. w :I'Ol‘bl;gm
‘976 to bettereffectuate its purposes

    

seer) were added as cos
a bill to amend to: m a
of

 

l 1- '3'-

      

  

 
    
   
 
  




1
. §

.. tional Marine Fisheries Service. 1

{ LEAHY,
' NEDY, and “I are introducing legislation
'— which would authorize the formation

River 11111111119...

Salmon Commission whose objective is.

 

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD CLIPPINGS
1868 Columbia Road, N W

Washington, D C. 20009
Pets. _~ . -

GAS, Mr KENNEDY, Mr. Dom)

1 . and Mr. LEAHY):

8. 283.5 A bill to grant the consent
and approval of the Congress to an 111-
terstate agreement or compact relat-

9 mg to the restoration of Atlantlc

salmon in the Connecticut River

'rBasin, and to allow the Secretary of

Commerce and the Secretary of the
Interior to participate as members in a

" = Connecticut River Atlantic Salmon

COmmission; to the Committee on the
J ud1c1ar / ““\
.. conﬁgcricur 111171: ATLANTIC SALMON
' COM®SION /
HUMPHR EYZ Mr. President,
enators IR DMAN, STAFFORD,
'QKE‘R, ONGAS, Donn, KEN-

0 M
today

of ‘ the Connecticut

to restore the sea—run Atlantic salmon
to the Connecticut River Basin. The
decline in numbers of the Atlantic
salmon is a matter of historical record,
and efforts to restore this sable
game fish have been ongoing for many
ye ,gnizing that this problem

of mutual. concern could be solved. only.

through cooperative action, the Gov-
ernors of New Hampshire, Vermont,
Connecticut, and Massachusetts, on
January 4, 1982, signed into law, legis-
lation which authorizes .a compact to
restore the Atlantic salmon. The com—
pact calls for. the formation of. the
" Connecticut River Atlantic Salmon

» COmmission with membership includ-

ing the four compact States, the US.
Fish and Wildlife Service, and the Na-

‘ The Constitution grants States the
right to establish such a compact sub-

ject to the consent of Congress. Also, ,

when it is desired, as it is in this case,
to make the Federal Government a
partner in the compact, affirmative
action by the Congress is required. ,

' .By historical accounts, efforts to re-
Store the Atlantic salmon to the Con-
necticut River Basin began as early as

:1867. These efforts continued over

time but achieved only limited success
due to lack of a formal compact among
. the States whose cooperation was es-
sential to the restoration program.
The affected States View their Con-
necticut River compaCt proposal as the

x necessary step toward achieving their

goal of restoration.
Because the proposed Commission
involves participation by the U S. Fish

’ ~ and Wildlife Service and the National

Fisheries Service, these two agencies
were Consulted. Both agencies have re-
viewed the proposed legislation and~
have indicated their concurrence.

0n the House side, an identical bill

,’ ’~ is being submitted today.
‘ ‘ y; ' This bill requires no Federal appro~ - _
', ’ prlations, it merely authorizes the IQ!“ .gﬁg';
mation of a four-State compact. It rep- '

,eserits a cooperative effort to solve a

oblem of . mutual concern 1nvo1v'g

.jiiseparal'jgentities, it would ‘

. " hylwhich the Atlaritl
011 could ._ e estored'toiits

.- dance the benefit of the entire
four-State reg1on I ask unanimous .
consent that the text of the bill to- '
gether With a relevant letter from
Charles E. Barry, executive directOr,
New Hampshire Fish and Game De—
partment be printed in the RECORD

There being no objection, the mate-
rial ordered to be printed in the
RECORD follows;

..S 2835

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of ;
Representatives of the United States of 1‘
America in Congress assembled, That the
Congress consents to and approves the en-
tering into by the States of . Connecticut,
Massachusetts, New Hampshire, and Ver-
mont Of an agreement. or comﬁact relating
to the restoration of Atlantic salmon in the ' '
Connecticut River Basin and to the creation
of a Connecticut River Atlantic Salmon
Commission. ‘ ..

SEC. 2. The Secretary of Commerce, or the
designee of the Secretary of Commerce, and
the Secretary of the Interior, or the desig-
nee of the Secretary of the Interior, may
participate as members in a Connecticut
River Atlantic Salmon Comniisson created»
under any agreement or compact consented
to and approved by the Congress in the first 1
section of this Act, and may cooperate with

- any such Commission and~ any commit-tee of 3

any such Commission.
STATE or NEW HAMPSHIRE, ,
FISH AND GAME DEPARTMENT,
Concord, N.H, J11ne1,1982.
Hon. GORDON J. HUMPHREY,
US. Senate, Washington, D. C”. _

DEAR SENATOR: As of January 4,1982, the
governors of Vermont, New Hampshire,
MaSsachusetts and Connecticut haVe signed
into law legislation which authorizes a com-
pact to restore sea-run Atlantic salmon to .
the Connecticut River Basin. The Compact _‘
calls for the formation of the Connecticut :
River Atlantic Salmon Commission with j
membership including the four Compact 1
states, the U. S. Fish and Wildlife Service 1
and the National Marine Fisheries Service.

In 1981, a major milestone wasachieved 1n
the restoration program when a record 530

' Atlantic salmon returned to the Connecti-

cut compared with 175 in 1980 and one in
1.974. 0m goal is to restore an annual run of
6,000 by 1997. Those of us who joined to
form the Compact believe it to be a critical .
step toward ..aSSIJring continuing cooperation ,
and the establishment of equitable regulag 1
tiOns once the salmon begin to return regu-
larly 1n large numbers. .

As you know, the U. S. Constitution grants
the right to states to establish a compact
Subject to the consent of the Congress. Also,
When it is the desire, as in this case, to make
the Federal Government a partner, Con- .
gross must take affirmative action.

Therefore, we would like to know yOur ‘
feelings about sponsoring a bill in the cur- .
rent Session of Congress. I have; enclosed. a.
briefing paper prepared by the U. S. Fish
and Wildlife. Service, Northeast Regional .
Office which provides background informa-
tion and a “draft bill”. JPIease call if 110'"
have any Questions or wish to call a me
mg. I can be reached at (603) 271-3511.-

Smcerely .
. . . ‘ _ CHARLES E. BARRY,
' 1:: ; I _ Ewecutwe Directm'

 

 

 




February] 22, 19.77

ogists who had drawn up the AGA estimates
for the Gulf.

What Mess found was that the whole esti-
mating process was dominated by a few of
the largest gas producing companies. These

companies were allowed to choose the geOlo- .

gists who served on the Reserves Committee,
and they regarded these geologists not as
servants of the public but as their own‘ rep-
resentatives. AGA made no attempt to make
the geologists follow its own estimating
rules, and in fact the AGA man in charge
of the program admitted that he had no idea
of what estimating methods they used.
Under oath, the geologists admitted that
they ignored. AGA’s deﬁnition of what con-
stituted “proved” reserves and, in case after
case, gave whatever estimates their com-

executives Three subsequent analyses of the .

158— ﬁeld sample by others all concluded that
the sample had been drawn up in such a way
as to minimize the possibili y ﬁnding under-
reported ﬁelds.

As to FEA’s: study, its dependence on in-
dustry- generated ﬁgures was also self-

evident. In authorising the FEAs survey, _,

‘ tencv power to

I BMtIFEA cnosnot to sub-
" 1' ieven when companies re-

panies wanted them to give. One admitted '

that his company drew up all his estimates.-

for him. Another said that, when a company
refused to give him information on a gas
ﬁeld, he simply listed the ﬁeld as “zero“: in
one year he listed ﬁve such ﬁelds. Another
, geologist said that companies. often refused

to give him any information at all, and he

was forced to make “ballpark“ guesses based
on scraps of information from the trade press.

Mossvturned up one huge ﬁeld containing .

400 billion cubic feet of gas that had been
unlisted for two years, even though it had
two platforms and 13 .wells and-its existence
was known to the entire industry. If this
single ﬁeld had been included in AGA’s 'ﬁg-

ures, it would have increased the AGA’ s 1974 .

national estimate of new-ﬁeld discoveries by
23 per cent -

The FTC’ s investigators, after a ﬁve- -year
examination of AGA’ s estimating methods,
had r‘eCommended taking the association and
the companies to court for
maintaining a deﬁcient. reporting system”
that produced “serious underreoorting.” The
FTC commissioners rejected this recommen-
dation on what appear to have beenpolitical
grounds Moss uncOvered a memo in the FTC

ﬁles recommending against any legal action'

that might encourage “continued FPO regu-
lation into the distant future.” The FTC in—
vestigation, now seven years old, drags on.
- THE PRICE INCENTIVE

The obvious reason the companies have to
give AGA incorrect ﬁgures is the propaganda
value of proving that a national shortage
exists. But there is a more immediately prace-
tical reasOn: The Supreme Court ruled in
1968 that the PFC could let producers in-
crease the price of gas whenever AGA’s ﬁg-
ures showed that their rate of new dis-
coveries had decreased. Thus, the fewer new
discoveries the producers tell AGA about, the'
more they can charge their customers Inter-
estingly enough the ﬁrst drastic drop in the
new-discovery ﬁgures appeared in the AGA

4‘ AJ— -_- an» :6011 n at“..- _- -_J.1 . 7n. r

. “concertedly ,

‘ "Geological
estimate of
" “s- staﬁ’ was

estimate
323 5 tril-

1's a little

«estimated

questions of ‘whi the compames reserves
actually are and why they are not making
them available in suﬂiment Quantity The
answer to these questions will come when
and if Congress uses its subpoena power to
conduct a survey of the industry’s holdings

' that is demonstrably and unquestionably in-

dependent 0f the industrys sinﬁuence. I don’t
pretend to know what such a Survey will
prove; perhaps it will conﬁrm the industry’s
ﬁgures. But it. is startling to realize that the
nation’s basic energy policy is being formu-
lated on‘the basis of a fundamentally impor-
tant set of statistics supplied by an industry

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD —— SENATE

ntive to misrepresent

has /every

 

_ OF THE WOLF
r. President, I wish

‘ 1' ed “The Wolf Gets a Better
Image With Biologist’s Help.” '

This informative article by Boyce
Rensberger deals With the work of Dr. »
L. David 'Mech who has been studying
wolves for 18 years and 15 considered the
Nation? 5. leadirr3r expert on wolf behavior.

The article prov1des a great deal of
information on how wolves are tracked
by radio after haying been immobilized
with drugs 7 ' 1

Through the work of Dr. Mech and his
associates a great deal has been learned
regarding habits of the wolves, both
alone and in pa ks In 1974 Dr Mech also
was involved 111 an effort to relocate four
Minnesota wolves in Michigan’s Upper

- Peninsula While the four wolves were

killed by human beings the experiment
did indicate that relocated wolves could
establish themselves. in a new territory
and survive ,

The main problem is how the wolf
impacts- on human beings and also other
animate. With the information which Dr.
Mech and; 1115 group are developing, it
will be possmle to develop more effective
wildlife polic1es and also encourage a bet-
ter understanding on the part of the pub-
lic regarding the wolf and its role in the
ecosystem1.-. .. . _

Mr. Pres1dent Iask ”unanimous con-
sent that this informative article be
printed in the RECORD

There being no objeCtion, the article
was ordered o’be printed in the RECORD,
as follows 7, ,
" GETS A Barman IMAGE Wrr
.1 gBIOLOGIS'r’s HELP

"71'. ,11.;f-«Boyce Rensberger)

ELY, MINNESOTA —A crimson pool of blood
lay frozen in the snow. Ravens peaked at the
last shreds: Of What , had been a deer.

,“Tner-e they are 1”” David Mech, Wolf biolo-
gist, shouted OVer the roar of a Cessna 180
circling tightly above the frozen lake as he
pointed down at the entire. "The wolves!”

About a; hundred yards from the kill in
the middle 1' the lake, six timber wolves
rested drowsily after the kill in the cold,
bright sun One jumped up to watch the little
plane as it banked sharply.

Dr. L. Dayld Mesh, who has studied wolves
for 18 years and is widely acknowledged as
this countrys leading expert on wolf be-
havior, marked down on a tracking form the
location of the wolves, how many there were

_ and what they were doing. Then he directed

the pilot to head southwest toward the place
where another Wolf pack had last been seen.

ThrOugh such aerial observations, 8. tech-
nique he helped develOp, Dr. Mech has
gathered much of the evidence that has de-
bunked many of man’s oldest myths about
the wolf. -

Once widely hated and persecuted as a
dangerous predator, the wolf today, thanks
largely to Dr; Mech’s research, is coming to
be regarded as an ecologically important
member of its wilderness habitats and as an
animal with a. complex and fascinating so-
ciety. Once feared as dangerous to people,
the wolf is now known not only as friendly
and sociable within its pack, but as no threat
to man. There is no documented instance

 




 

s 2852'

of a free-living wolf attacking a person in
North America. , A ‘~

. Dr. Mech (pronounced Meech) , now 40'
years old, began his wolf research in 1959

' as a graduate student while observing the
two dozen wolves of Isle Royale National.

‘ Park in Lake superior. Today, employed by

the Endangered Wildlife Research Program '

, of the United States Fish and Wildlife Serv-

' fic‘e, he is in charge of a wide-ranging, long-4

term study of the relatively stable popula-
tion of 1,000 to 1,200 wolves’in northern

' . Minnesota. These animals are the last sub-

, stantial pepulation of wolves in the United
States outside of Alaska. .

_~ The greatest concentration of these wolves
isgin the Superior National Forest near ‘
herein the (extreme northeastern corner of
the state, and the dead of winter, when the
, beasts can be spotted against the snow, is
‘ ‘the best time for studying them. _

j As thelittle plane headed toward the next
, wolf pack sighting, Dr. Mech put his head-
phones back on and listened intently for a
- choking signal picked up by antennas
mounted on the plane’s wing struts.

One of the wolves in the pack, like one in
the pack sighted near its kill, was wearing
a tiny, battery-powered transmitter on a
collar around its neck. The signal from this
constantly operating device picked up by the
antennas on the plane guides Dr. Mech to
the wolves. ' ' ’

Over the years Dr. Mech and his assistants,

' ,, most of them graduate students in wildlife

‘r‘biology at the University of Minnesota, have
trapped and radio-tagged about 140 wolves
in the Superior National Forest area.
After being captured in a modiﬁed leg-hold
trap, the wolves are immobilized with drugs,

x weighed, and identified by sex. Blood samples
.41} gejare taken. Ear tags are clipped on and the
'_‘.col_lar is ﬁtted. As the drugs wear_off, the

wolf,\ transmitting on its own frequency,
runs off ,to rejoin its pack. Because wolf packs
are stable Social units, .the signal from a
single radio collar can lead Dr. Mech or his

, students to the entire pack.

Because the antennas are highly direc-
tional, picking up signals from either the
,left or right side of the plane, depending
on Which antenna is used, Dr. Mech can tell
. where the transmitting wolf is in relation-
ship to the plane. Dr. Mech can switchfrom
one antenna to the other. When the signal
is equally strong from the two antennas, the
plane is headed directly for the wolves.

Twenty-four of the, 140 radio collars are
* still working, the others either have stopped
‘ roperating (usually after a year or so) or the
wolves haVe/been killed (wolves that venture
too near human beings risk being shot or
trapped). The 24 tagged animals represent
nine packs, one newly formed pair that may
breed to establish a new pack, and four lone
Wolves, animals who have left their original
' packs to’wander alone and sometimes ﬁnd a
, mate and a vacant “territory” in which they
can establish a new pack. '
Minutes after leaving the pack with the
“deer kill, Dr. Mech signaled the pilot to
circle above a forested ridge.

‘ “They’re down there,” Dr. ‘Mech shouted.
“Can’t see ’em. They're probably under the
trees.” ’ 1 . . . '
After logging their. position and that of"

some other packs, Dr. Mech headed back to

‘* thenairport, Every day during, winter" and at

. least weekly during the summer Dr. Mech or

his students go up in planes to ﬁnd the
collared wolves. one pack has been tracked
,for six (years. . . '.-

“\When the locations for a given wolf pack
are plotted on a map, almost all fallwithin a
, (tightly circumscribed territory abutting the

ﬂ. _. .
’1 ,u

, 7.3-

,; g territories of other wolf packs and almost
never overlapping them. One pack; for
1, example, has ﬂuctuated - from two to ninés‘hat'aloéal bar.
' -,.--__:m_embersx over the year, but has always“ ' ‘ ‘ ' '
m intaine'd the same; ' "

“ ‘ r ‘ - ' .
J “w :{r’rﬁ‘ ' ‘ . ‘ -' 3". . \ .‘l/ _> ,. , *1 ‘
if'vi‘g" . ' ' x . , ‘ , ‘ '.

1 with its neighboring packs. On a'larger scale,
- wolf densities usually are about one for every ~

10 Square miles. .

., . Wolves mark the boundaries with-urine
\and, even when chasing prey, seldom enter

alien territory. When they do, they risk at-

_ tack from the resident pack.

Back at the logcabin or a Forest Service

compound near Ely that serves as the wolf

study’s ﬁeld station, Dr. Mech and half a
dozen students come and go throughout the
day, drying out soaked gloves, pouring hot
coffee, calibrating radio receivers, exchanging
information on the day’s sightings. In the re-‘ '
frigerator, vials of wolf blood share space with
bottles of beer. Several of the students track
wolves from the air and others manage proj-
ects on deer, lynxes, moose, snowshoe hares,
ravens and other local fauna. Many of these ,
animals are also wearing radio collars. ,

By studying both wolves and their prey,
Dr. Mech and his students hope to discover
and understand those elements of their be-
havior that have evolved as ways of coping
with the other species. Anatomical adapta-
tions for attack and defense are well known
but behavioral adaptations are not.

Biologists have long known that wolves
have developed certain ways of hunting that
maximizes their chances of killing deer. Pre-
sumably deer, who heretofore have not been
intensively studied as one-half of a predator-
rprey relationship, have evolved defensive
behaviors as well. '

One deer behavior that is under study is
the congregating of deer in open meadows,
or deer yards, in the winter. In spring and

_ winter deer are dispersed through the forest.

Why do deer shift back and forth between

, two different systems of social organization?

Somehow, Dr. Mech suspects, the deer’s

. slower metabolism in winter, the difﬁculty of

moving in snow and the fact that fawns have
grown more independent since their birth
make “‘yarding” a better way to defend
against wolves in winter but a poorer way in
summer. A four-year study of deer behavior
is planned in an attempt to explain this
phenomenon. ,

One recent morning a student reported

- that wolf No. 2407 and its pack were found

well out of their territory. Dr. Mech checked
the location on a map. “That’s interesting,”
he remarked. “Those sons of guns, they’re
trespassing, really striking out on their own."
From the map it appeared that they would
have had to cross two roads to reach,.-their

‘ present location from where they had been

the day before.

Later in the day, after a futile attempt
to find a radio-collared wolf that someone
reported seeing on a road with a trap on its
foot, Dr. Mech drove the snow-covered roads
that the “trespassing” wolves had crossed
to look for scent marks. When wolves cross a
road or other physical boundary, they mark
the junction with urine. He wanted to col-
lect urine samples frozen into the snow for
biochemical" analysis but a snowplow had
recently obliterated the marks.

SOME STILL HUNT WOLVES

The biologists’ interactions with the human
population in and around Ely have proven
both rewarding and frustrating. .

Dr. Mech said that although most towns—
people were sympathetic to the wolf research
and favored the species’ protection, a few
retained the older antipathy. There is a
vigilante group that kills wolves whenever
possible and puts the carcasses on other
people’s doorsteps with notes arguing that
wolves destroy deer that should be protected ,
for hunters. '

Although wolf hunting and trapping have 7

been illegal in Minnesota since 1965, it con-

, tinues. Whenever one of the collared wolves
is killed, however,’some sympathetic trappers. ,
r notify Dr. Mech by leaving anonymous notes .§

. , -‘ "Because some of Dal/Mech’s colleagues “
“3" $150331 boundagiges’ illicit-y" deer. some townspeople are p, puzzled-f

r"
— «(r ~
rim

 

, CONGRESSIONAL RECORD -- SENATE ' ' ‘ February 22',”_“1_f9§r7” ” '
A A “that scientists who specialize ln'spec‘ies that 1 ‘
are seen as “natural enemies” can be friends.

' “Wexhave a ways to go. in changing’peoples:
attitudes about these animals,” ‘ Dr. Mech
said. » " , - .

Dr. Mech says he likes to get into the ﬁeld '
as often as possible but noted that behalf a
desk Job‘with the Fish and Wildlife Service in
St. Paul. There, with access to libraries and
laboratories, he writes scentiﬁc papers on
Wolf behavior, consults with scientists and ‘
conservationists around the world. LaSt year
he spent a month in India training biologists
there in radio tracking. He also develops stra-
tegies for protecting wolves. , ’ _

Fonexample, Dr. Mech was heavily involved
in the 1974 effort to relocate fourvMinnesota
wolVes in Michigan's Upper Peninsula.
Within eight months after the Wolves were
released, all four, two males and two females
had been killed by-human beings. Two were
shot; one was trapped and then shot; one was
hit by a car. ~

ANIMALS CAN BE anLoca'rEri
The experiment did establish that relo- ~

. cated wolves could establish themselves in a . .

new territory and survive. “The problem,” Dr.
Mech said, “is the human population. Next
time we would want to do a more intensive
public education effort.” -

Dr. Mech is a member of the Eastern Tim-
ber Wolf Recovery Team appointed by the
Fishand Wildlife Service to devise a program
for the protection and re-establishmeht of
wolf populations. The group has suggested
that wolves be reintroduced to wilderness
areas in Michigan, Wisconsin, New York
State’s Adirondacks, Maine, and the Great
Smoky Mountain NatiOnal Park.

Dr. Mech has found that wolves can double

’ their numbers every year. However, they do

not if the area is already full and each peek’s

, territory abuts others, on all sides. Lone

wolves, unable to establish a territory near.
their place of origin, disperse to a less desir-
able habitat and, in many cases, are killed by
people. .

, Thus, Dr. Mech has found, wolf hunting or
trapping can continue at a substantial rate
on the fringes of prime wolf country without
lowering the average wolf population.

In Minnesota, for example, the Wolf Re-
covery Team has recommended that con-
trolled wolf killing be permitted in a buffer
zone around the wolf’s 10,000-square-mile
prime range, which would remain totally pro-
tected. Limited wolf hunting or trapping, the
group believes, is necessary to minimize the
loss of livestock to wolves and to increase the
base of local citizen support for conservation.
without which wolves might not survive at
all. ~ . .‘

 




Last Stand for the National Forests

Your National Forests need you now.
Their future can be decided in the next few weeks.

At this moment timber industry lobbyists are furiously pressing your Senators and Congressmen for passage of
legislation to remove all safeguards that help the Forest Service resist timber industry pressure to ruinously cut the trees in your
National Forests. Firm safeguards must be written into law now to protect the irreplaceable soil, water, wildlife, fisheries and

recreational values contained within your publicly owned lands. There is still
time to save your National Forests if you will act quickly.

The Legislation—Your Choices

Two major pieces of legislation are moving rapidly through Con-
gress right now. The protection or destruction of your National

Forests can be decided with the choice Congress makes.
The National Forest Timber Management Reform Act, introduced in
the Senate on February 4 by Senator Jennings Randolph (D-West Virginia)—
S.2926—and in the House of Representatives on February 17 by Con-
gressman George Brown (D-Califomia)————H.R. 11894—will protect your Na-
tional Forests. Drafted with the assistance of concerned professional foresters
and representatives of the Sierra Club and other environmental organizations,
this legislation (1) limits the size of destructive clearcuts; (2) protects wildlife and
fishery resources; (3) prohibits the massive cutting of immature trees; (4) dis—
courages even—aged management and tree farming practices closely associated
with clearcutting; and (5) prevents the transfer of valuable eastern hardwood
forests to pulpwood tree species. Citizens concerned with responsible
forestry management strongly support the National Forest Timber

Management Reform Act—8.2926 and H.R. 11894.
_ ' . . 73;, The timber industry, on the other hand, is organizing powerful support
, -. ss~ . I. for legislation introduced by Senator Hubert Humphrey on March 5—8.3091.
Wise law is needed. to A similar bill—HR. 12503—was introduced in the House? of Representatives
fr aglle 8101963 by Congressman Harold (Bizz) Johnson (D-California) on March 15.

Senator Humphrey’s timber industry-oriented legislation would allow the trees in your National Forests to be cut with no
firm safeguards to protect fragile resources. 8.3091 and HR. 12503 must be opposed for the sake of your National
Forests in the years to come.

Hard won victories in environmental lawsuits in the Monongahela National Forest (West Virginia) and elsewhere across the
Nation have prompted the timber industry to push Congress for legislation that would undercut these victories. Senator
Humphrey’s legislative approach would once again expose your National Forests to excessive pressures from the timber
industry. The National Forest Timber Management Reform Act confirms in legislation these hard-won gains for sound
resource management, while assuring that America’s wood fibre needs in the years ahead are supplied responsibly, without
damage to fragile National Forest resources.

What You Can Do

Write a letter, send a wire, or make a telephone call immediately to your Congressman (House Office Building,
Washington, DC. 20515) and both of your Senators (Senate Office Building, Washington, DC. 20510).
PUrge them to co-sponsor and support the Randolph/ Brown National Timber Management Reform Act (8.2926
and HR. 11894).
>Urge them to oppose the Humphrey/Johnson legislation (8.3091 and HR. 12503).

THE FUTURE OF YOUR NATIONAL FORESTS DEPENDS ON WHAT YOU DO NOW. Only your letters, wires and
telephone calls can overcome the pressures from timber industry lobbyists who are right now packing the offices of your
Congressman and Senators. Let your legislators know that your National Forests must be protected by the firmest law. Ask
your friends to contact their legislators. Please act quickly and repeatedly. As always, only your work will make the
difference for your National Forests. Thank you.

April 5, 1976

.~ 3%;
if 'F .
g“? Sierra Club

 




Your National Forests

As an American citizen you own 180 million acres in a 43 state system of 155 National Forests. These lands
contain a rich inventory of natural resources and furnish opportunities for a wide variety of recreational activities. Logging by
the timber industry in your National Forests has jumped 400% over the last 30 years and-timber cutting continues to increase.
Abusive clearcutting accounts for much of that logging increase, stripping every standing tree from millions of acres. Clearcut—
ting creates major problems for wildlife refuge areas, delicate ﬁshery habitats, fragile soils on steep slopes, and mounting public
recreational demands.

Public recreational use of the National Forests has soared, doubling since 1960. Moreover, the Forest Service projects that
recreational uses will more than double again by the year 2000. These rapid increases in both timber and recreational use will
create serious conﬂicts in future years—conﬂicts that should not be resolved in favor of logging for private profit in your
National Forests at the expense of recreational uses and other values.

America’s wood ﬁbre needs in the years ahead must be met from many sources including the National Forests. The federal
government estimates that in some regions up to half a cut tree’s wood fibre is wasted. The technology is now available to turn
wood ﬁbres now wasted into a full range of wood products. Timber needs can also be satisﬁed from farm and small woodlots
which contain over 50% of the forested areas of our nation.

Forest Service professionals need the assistance of wise National Forest law to help them resist heavy timber
industry pressure to increase abusive logging practices in your National Forests.

Firm law is needed to prevent abusive clearcutting

Sierra Club

530 Bush Street

San Francisco, California 94108
(415) 981-8634

Printed on recycled paper

 




HUBERT H. HUMPHREY
MINNESOTA

@Cnifeh $310422; ﬁenafe

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20510

July 17, lg74

Hrs. Natalie H. Price
190 Hart Boulevard
Staten Island, New York 10301

Dear Hrs. Price:
I just wanted to let you know pleased I am that

you support my amendments to protect dogs from being used

in the tasting of certain chemical anﬂ biological agents.

My thanks for your thoughtfulness in writing.

With best wiahas

O

Sincerely,

Hubert H. Humphrey

 




Oct, 11,1???

ihs. Wilso :

Forwarﬂed f0? your information.

W a cum W
~ .; _ 1 ‘ '5 A N) 'r , I“ NJ \"‘ M -
Cface Q, Amarews

 




a J. W. FULBRIGHT, ARK., CHAIRMAN

JOHN SPARKMAN, ALA. GEORGE D. AIKEN. VT.
MIKE MANSFIELD, MONT. CLIFFORD P. CASE. N.J.
FRANK CHURCH, IDAHO JACOB K. JAVITS, N.Y.
STUART SYMINGTON, MO. HUGH SCOTT, PA.

CLAIBORNE PELL, R.I. JAMES B. PEARSON, KANS. r3 0
GALE w. MC GEE, WYO. CHARLES H. PERCY, ILL. at e a 9% en“ e
EDMUND s. MUSKIE, MAINE ROBERT P. GRIFFIN, MICH.

GEORGE MC GOVERN, s. DAK.
HUBERT H. HUMPHREY' MIN“. , COMMITTEE ON FOREIGN RELATIONS

CARL MARCY, CHIEF OF STAFF WASHINGTON’ D.C. 20510

ARTHUR M. KUHL, CHIEF CLERK

October 8, 1973

Ms. Grace C. Andrews

4115 Wisconsin Avenue N.W.
Washington, D. C.

20016

Dear Ms. Andrews:

I want to share with you a copy of a fact
sheet I have received from the Air Force,
which explains the Air Force Toxicology
Research Program on beagle dogs.

The conditions under which the dOgs are
kept and the experiments that are done

are a bit more humane.than the clipping
indicated. I also feel very sympathetic
to the animals, but I can see the research

value of these experiments.

With my best wishes.
Sincerely.

./

Hubert H. Humphéey
\ I

’ "u“
‘ - ' ‘ ‘ rut.
\ ~....,
a f
K ,A"

.r

v ,4"

(ﬂ.

'5“.

"m .r-“ A}.
w
“MI-moo MNI‘Vﬂ‘W ""

 




FACT SHEET
ON THE
AIR FORCE TOXICOLOGY RESEARCH PROGRAM

Adult dogs are being procured as part of an Air Force
contract with the University of California for toxicology
studies at the Aerospace Medical Research Laboratory,
Wright- —Patterson AFB, Ohio. ~

PURPOSE OF THE TESTS

 

The tests in question are to determine long—time safe
exposure limits for Air Force peOple who may be eXposed in
the c0urse of their work to rocket propellants, jet fuels,
fire extinguishants and the toxic off—gassing products from
cabin materials that may result during aircraft accident
fires. There are, of course, far reaching implications in
the tests for civilian pOpulations as well.

The animals are NOT used to test "poison gases" as some
reports have alleged, but to determine the effects of ex—
posure to relatively low levels of compounds used by the Air
Force. Most of the animals, remaining in the large chambers
for as much as 60 days, show no obvious symptoms or effects
Since the substance concentrations used for tests are at
levels similar to those expected to be encountered by man
working in Air Force occupational environments. Even
though obvious effects are not normally observed, defini~
tive, meaningful knowledge of possible internal effects
often can be gained only by pathologic examination of the
animals' tissues. In these selected cases, the animals
are put to sleep quickly and painlessly by a veterinary
doctor and tissues obtained for detailed microscopic study.

WHY MUST THESE TESTS-BE CONDUCTED?

Whenever adequate data exists within the scientific
community, the Air Force uses these data to determine safe
human exposure limits to compounds employed in various phases
of Air Force activities. When sufficient data does not
exist, as for example in the case of new materials, there
is no practical alternative to safeguard the health of human
beings except to undertake new research.

 




Before any new research is undertaken, however, concerted
efforts are made to assure that it will not duplicate prior
tests. First, within the Department of Defense, the research
requirements of all the services are reviewed and coordinated.
There is also a careful screening of all available scientific
literature and advisory groups, such as the Advisory Center
on Toxicology of the National Research Council, are consulted
regarding specific research requirements. The Center is
composed of leading scientists and managers in the field of
toxicology research in various agencies. Its main purpose
is to review requirements to determine whether work already
accomplished by another research group can be applied to
the question at hand, or whether new research is required
to obtain the needed information.

WHY DOGS?

The species of animals selected for toxicity studies are
governed by the results required, how similar their responses
are to those of man and, of lesSer importance, their expense.
Purebred beagle dogs are used for this type of study by govern—
ment agencies, universities and industry_because their physics
logic responses are acceptably close to humans and their
microanatomy is consistent and well understood. The use of
beagle dogs, with established common genetic backgrounds and
well- known physiologic responses, reduces the variables in
the experiments and thereby minimizes the number of animals
required to obtain the needed informatiOn.

DEBARKING

 

"Debarking" is the misleading name for a procedure per—
formed under anesthesia and commonly used by university,
industrial and government laboratories when large numbers
of dogs are to take part in research studies indoors. It
does net leave the dogs mute, but modifies high-pitched
barking. Full use of the vocal cords usually returns in
three to six months by natural processes.

 

ANIMAL QUARTERS

Three types of animal quarters are used,_depending on
the status of the animals (in quarantine, in holding, or
during the eXperiment). ‘ The quarantine and portions of the
holding time are spent in indoor, air conditioned runs (8
,feet’high, .4 feet wide, 6 feet long). During a stage in

 




which the animals are not under study but control data (such
as blood samples) are being collected, the dogs are either
in the Same type of runs or in stainless steel cages (36
inches high, 50 inches wide, 32 inches long). During the
'eXperiment, the animals are also housed in cages and have
more room than in the holding cages. For example, 19 square.
feet of floor Space is available for each group of 8 beagles
during the eXperiment. In all instances, the condition

and dimenSions of cages and runs meet or surpass Air ForCe
regulations, Public Law, and the American Association for
Accreditation of Laboratory Animal Care standards. Those
standards do consider the need for exercise and dogs housed
in runs have substantial room for daily exercise.

All experimental work performed with these animals,
as well as their feeding, housing and exercise is in accord-
ance with the guide for Care and Use of Laboratory Animals,
Department of Health, Education and Welfare Publication #7323.
The dogs are kept under close supervision by a staff which
"includes three veterinarians Specializing in laboratory ani-
mal mediCine, two in veterinary pathology and one in phar— '

macology, all of whom participate in the studies.

 




HERMAN E. TALMADGE, GA., CHAIRMAN
JAMES O. EASTLAND, MISS. CARL T. CURTIS, NEBR.
GEORGE MC GOVERN, 8. DAK. GEORGE D. AIKEN, VT.
JAMES B. ALLEN, ALA. MILTON R. YOUNG, N. DAK-
HUBERT H. HUMPHREY, MINN. ROIERT DOLE, KANS.

ﬁékTifaikTSEkEsm“ "" T:§'£':§t¢§°§£m' ’2] Cnifeh ﬁfafcg; ﬁenafe

COTYS M. MOUSER, CHIEF CLERK

COMMITTEE ON
AGRICULTURE AND FORESTRY

WASHINGTON. D.C. 20510

October 31, 1973

Ms. Christine Stevens

Secretary

Society for Animal Protective
Legislation

P.O. Box 3719

Georgetown Station

Washington, D.C. 20007

Dear Christine:

Thank you very much for your recent letter in support
of S. 1388, a bill which would assist states in carrying
out animal health research programs.

Your suggestion that this legislation be amended to

provide for research into methods for controlling animal
births, sounds to me like a good one. Perhaps, research
would develop a relatively inexpensive and effective

means to prevent unwanted animal births and as a result
reduce the suffering that such unwanted animals must under—
go.

I am pleased to hear that you have already provided possible
language to Senator Allen for improvement of S. 1388.

I have forwarded a copy of your letter and the proposed
amendments to Senator Talmadge, who was the principal
sponsor of this measure.

Thanks for bringing this matter to my attention. As
always, it was a pleasure hearing from you.

Best wishes.

Sincerely,

a" ;

Hubert H.5Humphrey

 




w
“EC? .9
., i

M”
LIL

i". "r

W me. are; . ..
' The muse omom Under the
Welder, theSenate will now pm-
ceed to the of amendment
No. 1871. IV the distinguished Senator
from Mme-eta M. Human?) , which
the clerk will report.
The second mistant legislative clerk
W to read the amendment.
“1'. W. Mr. President, I ask
consentthat further reading
of the amendmmt be dispensed with.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered; and, without
objection, the amendment will be printed
in the Recon.
The amendment is as follows:
On page 1’7, between lines 20 and 21, insert
a new action as (elm?
8m. 708. Notwithetucding any other pro-
vision of law, no runde appropriated pursuant
to this or any other Act may be used for the
purpose of carrying out research, testing,
and/or evaluation of poisonous gases, radio-
active materials, poisonous chemicals, bio-

logical, or chemical~ warfare‘agents ,,“p91..1.-9933' -

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Time for
debate on this amendment shall be lim-
ited to 30 minutes. to be equally divided
between and controlled by the mover of
the amendment and the manager of
the bill.

Mr. HUMPHREY. I yield myself such
time as I may need.

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ate will be in order. Senators will take
their seats or retire to the cloakroom for
their conversations. The Senator will not
proceed until the Senate is in order.

Mr. HUMPI-IREY. Mr. President. I
discussed this amendment yesterday. I
want to be sure that the Department of
Defense and its related departments or
agencies do not engage in the use of dogs
for carrying out research, testing, and
evaluation of poisonous gases. radioac-
tive materials, poisonous chemicals, bio-
logical or chemical warfare agents. That
is the whole purpose of this amendment.

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ate is not in order. The Senator from
Minnesota is entitled to be heard. The
Chair asks the indulgence of Senators.

Mr. HUMPHREY. Mr. President, be—
cause I want to make sure that this
amendment is speciﬁc and is directed to-
ward the Department of Defense, as it
relates to the use of dogs in the testing
of poisonous gases, radioactive materials.
poisonous chemicals, and biological or
germ warfare agents. I want to change
my amendment very simply, by making
sure that it applies directly to this act.
Therefore, on line 2 I would say:

No funds appropriated pursuant to this Act
may be used for the purpose or carrying out
research, testing . . . '

I so modify the amendment.

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
Chair advises the Senator that inasmuch
as the yeas and hays have been ordered,
unanimous consent is required.

Mr. HUMPHREY. I ask unanimous
consent.

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection? The Chair hears none, and it
unordered.

The modiﬁed amendment is as follows:

4.4,
67¢ -e/‘rwaﬂi...-enrssronu ‘ coup“ . +- 5mm

On page 11.. batman mien so and 31

a mention as follows: ,

be. me. any other pro-

vﬂion at law. no funds appropriated pursuant

tothisActmaybeusedforthepmpoeeot

out research, testing, and/or evalua»

tion 0! poisonous gases, radioactive materials.

poisonous chemicals, biological, or chemical
warfare agents upon 9935'

Mr. HUMPHREY. Mr. President, the
purpose of that is for clarity. We are
not trying in this proposal to move in
on the National Science Foundation, in
its normal research work, or the Depart-
ment of Health, Education, and Welfare.

I wonder what the arguments are
against this particular proposal. The ar-
guments are, of course, that if the Hum-
phrey amendment, known as the beagle
amendment, passes, it will restrict. re-
search, and it will complicate the prob-
lems of the Department of Defense on
ascertaining how much, for example, an
individual or man can take in a sub-
marine: how much bad air; how much
polluted air.

Mr. President, I say all of that is not
relevant because if the Department of
Defense wants to make tests as to the
eﬂect of poisonous gases, radioactive ma-
terials, poisonous chemicals, biological,
or germ warfare agents, there are plenty
of other animals they could use such as
rates and mice.

I do not believe any Member of this
body wants to see the Department of
Defense advertise, as it has recently, for
450 beagle puppies for the purpose of
testing poisonous gases, radioactive ma-

terials, poisonous chemicals. biological
or germ warfare agents.

I, for one, am trying to save the De-
partment of Defense from a little more
bad publicity. I hope they were mistaken
in that original advertisement. This
amendment really is the result of con-
versations I have had with the distin-
guished Senator from Washington (Mr.
Mscnuson) . who long has been interested
in this kind of legislation. The Senator
from Washington was not on the ﬂoor
yesterday when i promised this amend-
ment, so I ask unanimous consent that
his name be added as a principal co-
sponsor of the amendment. along with
the Senator from Kansas (Mr. DOLE).
and the Senator from West Virginia (Mr.
RANDOLPH).

The PRESIDING Oi-‘FICER. Without
objection, it is so (irrdcrmi.

\lr. HUMPHREY. These Senators all
haii‘ g; “z serious consideration to this
proposal.

Mr. President the amendment before
us addresses the (westion of the cruel
testing by the Deparunent of Defense
of poisonous gases, germ warfare agents,
nerve gas, biological warfare agents,
poisonous chemicals, and re dioactive ma-
terials on dogs.

As I pointed out to my colleagues late
yesterday afternoon upon introduction of
this anicndn‘icnt. the military branches
have been insensitive to the hue and
cry in this country against: their con-
tinued use of dogs in test gus programs.
The DOD has used dogs extensively and
currently is using dogs in the evaluation
of the toxicity and'hi'sabling nature of

gas. The DOD needs some di-
rection in its use of dogs in an experi-

. .. . z.- . -: , t; __
X . : ,~, _". -.. ‘ . ' > H. u:
Date- '- '1 1 -
O i ' ‘~
. '7 L A r' j 1,». l, r" " "

" - 2 , , — I 5.
’ V 1‘ a 1‘0 74.1-,»

"f 5‘.

.“33 ..,..
. . .J .‘.,
_. .1r~- '

as, a .v...
Vanni} '- ‘

77'}.- - . . ;
',-‘-
x ' 2.3a“ ~
“ "1;. . . E L": a g E." !

mi, 191*;

tunable.

It is one thing to do legitimate medi-
cal research on rate and rabbits, but it
lsquiteanotherthingtousedogato
use beagle puppies, in the beating of
poisonous nerve gas and radioactive ma-
terial and other deadly agents of war-
fare.

I want to remind my colleagues in the
Senate of the moving words of Senator
George G. Vest, who served in the Sen-
ate in the late 1800’s to 1903:

The one absolutely unselﬁsh friend that
man can have in this selﬁsh world, the one
that never deserts him, the one that never
proves ungrateful or treacherous, is his
dog . . . He will kiss the hand that has no
food to offer. . . . When all other friends
desert, he remains. ~

I introduce this amendment not only
to protect our dogs, which are so close
to our hearts, but also with earnest con-
cern for the provisions of the Geneva
Protocol of 1925 which prohibits the
use of asphyxiating, poisonous, or other
gases, in war, and the use of bacteriolog-
ical methods of warfare.

I am the author of Senate Resolution
48 which calls for the Senate to support
a broad interpretation of the Geneva
protocol. In so doing my resolution rec-
ommends that the United States be will-
ing, on the basis of reciprocity, to re-
frain from the use in war of all toxic
chemical weapons whether directed
against man, animals, or plants.

The amendment which we are consid-
ering today is in the context of my con-
cern that we prohibit the development
and use of all chemical and biological
weapons whether directed against man
or man’s best friend.

The DOD currently is testing poisonous
gases on beagles and it will continue to
do so unless we prohibit such a heartless
practice.

Senators have been calling the Depart-
ment of Defense, editors have been writ-
ing editorials, doctors have been pro-
testing, but the Department of Defense
just goes wiliy~niliy on its way with its
deadly research on dogs.

As I indicated earlier, the US. Army‘s
Edgewood Arsenal in Maryland currently
is advertising for 450 beagle. puppies to
be used to test poisonous chemicals and
gases. We must stop the appalling suf—
fering which the dogs must experience
in these DOD experiments.

If my colleagues were able to read .
the scientiﬁc description of some of these
experiments from the American Hygiene
Journal, which appeared in the RECORD

. yesterday, I am sure they will want to

stop these devastatingly cruel experi~
mcnts by sumzorting my amendment. I
urge its adoption. .

Mr. President, before anything further
is said about it. there is not one bit of
necessary research that would be in-
hibited by this amendment. Not one bit
or research has to be done on dogs in
connection with poisonous gases, radio-
active materials, poisonous chemicals,

 




June i, 1974

ﬂological. or germ warfare agents that
could not be done on rodents.

I suggest the Department of Defense
take greater interest in rats and leave
tbedogsaionejamoonﬁdentthatthis
mate is overwhelmingly going to ap-
prove the amendment which may on its
facewemtobeanamendment whichis
mall and inconsequential. But let me
warn the Senate that millions of people
hiAmericaarefedupwiththiskind
of insensitive action on the part of re-
searchers in the Department of De-
'fense. I speak for those millions of peo-
pie If we do not agree to this amend-
ment, the mail service will be behind one
month delivering the protests coming
to this body
, Hr. McIN‘I’YRE Mr. Practical will the
Senator yield?

Mr. HUMPHREY. I yield.

Mr. MCINTYRE. Mr. President, I ask
that the Senator add my name as a co—

m.

Mr. HUMPHREY. I thank the Sen-
ator. I ask unanimous consent that the
Senator’s name be added as a cosponsor.
. The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without

objection. it is so ordered. .

Hr, HUMPHREY. I would be glad to

f)- . add the names of other Senators who

wish to join in sponsoring the amend-
ment. There will be a rollcall vote.

Mr. RANDOLPH. Mr. President, will
the distinguished Senator from Minne-
sota, my able colleague, yield?

Mr. HUMPHREY. I yield.

Mr. RANDOLPH. Mr. President, the
presentation of the Senator from Minne-
sota (Mr. Hummer) is factual and it is

a privilege to join with him as a cospon-
sor. This amendment has been presented
an its merits.

It is my belief. that better methods

in their occupational environ-
' . However inﬂicting pain and
. :puriishmmt on animals must be dis-

'I understand the public outrage over
use of beagle dogs and other types
animals for research Those who have
dog as pets realize the happiness
they provide to children and fam-

as household pets and even protec-
As a young boy, two of my favorite

The sentiment and compassion of for-
mer Senator George Vest of Missouri are
well known and should remind us this
afternoon to recognize the friendship of
dogs. Here emphasis must be directed
t0ward preventing suffering of animals
in research. Through public service
groups and organizations animals are
now receiving more protection and at-

and this amendment will signif-

icantly strengthen that eiIort. It will

hob unsure that Government also meets

. ‘ its obligation in this area.

i mm Mr President is a good
mindlhopeitwillbeapprovedbythe

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD —— SENATE

Mr. HUMPHREY. I thank the Senator.
It is not only this concern that I express,
but not long ago I rose to protest what
happened to a group of black men in
Tuskegee when medical research caused
them to suffer the ravages of syphilis

when they could have been cured. The .

Government should set a good example.
When people do not set a good example
and violate humane principles, we should
straighten them out.

Mr. STENNIS. Mr. President, I yield
myself 1 minute. I wish to yield to the
Senator from South Carolina who has a
matter that he wishes to present. I un-
derstand he has been in conference with
the Senator from Minnesota.

I yield to the Senator from South
Carolina for 5 minutes.

Mr. THURMOND. Mr. Presidmzt, as
far as we are concerned we are willing
to take the amendment to conferemc. I
have conferred with the distinguished
Senator from Minnesota. The only eon-
cern we have is that we do not want to
handicap any research that might help
human beings. By the time we go to con-
ference I think a fair study can be made
of the matter because I think everyone
is sympathetic toward dogs. No one
wants to see any dog harmed unless it is
absolutely essential to protect human
life.

We are willing to take the amendment
to conference.

Mr. HUMPHREY. Mr. President, I ap-
preciate those words, I want to make it
very clear that one of the reasons I want
a rollcall is that I have been taken to
conference before. I have been taken to
the mountain. I did not quite get to
Heaven, but I have been taken to the
mountain. Now I am on steady ground.
I have quit running for these big ofﬁces.
I have quit going to conferences. I know
we will go to conference on this amend-
ment, but I want a rollcall vote rather
than just be told it will be taken to con-
ference, I have hit .a few sliders in my
day, but this is a home run. I want to
be sure we touch all the bases. I want to
ask for the yeas and nays.

I will yield back the remainder of my
time.

Mr. STENNIS. Mr. President. I wanted
to say a word, but first I will let the Sen-
ator ask for the 5 eas and ms.

Mr. HUMPI—IREY They have already
been ordered

Mr. STENNIS. I am glad to yield to
the Senator from Wyoming 3 minutes.

Mr. HANSEN. Mr. President. I do not
think I could fairly be categorized as a
person insensitive to the need for com-
passion for every living creature. I hap-
pen to be a rancher. I have spent most of
my life working around animals, and I
know something about their needs. what
hunger does to them, what cold does to
them, and everything else; but I must
say that I was on Livestock, Research
and Marketing Advisory Committee to
the Secretary of Agriculture and while I
was. on that committee we visited Oak
Ridge. Tenn, where some experiments
were being carried on with annuals to
wait what eﬂect radiation had on those
animals and what might be data with
respect to adequate use of modern drugs

S 9615

and treatment in order to minimize the
effect that oftentimes follow exposure to
radiation.

I fully appreciate the compassion that
prompts the distinguished Senator from
Minnesota to speak out as he has, but I
must say that I think we have to be real-
istic in this day and age if we are to learn
how—and I hope we will never have to
face the problem—40 decide what to do
in case some of our population. or people
anywhere, are subject to poison gases or
whatever. I cannot think it makes good
sense on behalf of this Government to
say categorically that it will be denied
the use of animals for experimental pur-
poses in undertaking to evaluate the im-
pact of some of the modern implements
of war.

For their reasons. I am going to have
to vote against this amendment.

lwantedtosayawordbecauselap-
preciate my good friend’s sentiments, and
I suspect I will be only one of a very small
number not to support the amendment; .
but I think the concern of humanity has
to be overriding, and for those reasons I
will vote against the amendment. I
thank the Senator for yielding. ‘

Mr. STENNIS. Mr.
myself 5 minutes.

I was getting ready to thank and com-
pliment the Senator from Minnesota for
a very fine speech he made on a preced-
ing amendment here, and I am going to
go ahead and do that, anyway, although
I want to remind him and the rest of my
colleagues that this is a military procure-
ment bill concerning billions of dollars
for missiles, submarines. ships, and man-
power to carry that program forward.
We do not want to let it be used as a kind
of handrack or dog rack. or anything of
that kind. I think I know something
about it. I am not going to quote what
the Senator said about a dog and what
the Senator from West Virginia said with
reference to Senator Vest, but I know the
serimzsnees of the Senator from Minne—
sota and the seriousness of this matter.
too.

I know the yeas and hays have been or-
dered. and it is all right, but it is rather
serious to me that We call nearly 100
Senators away from their business to
come in and vote on amendments that
are noncontroversial and that have al-
ready been accepted. as announced by
the Senator from South Carolina here.

We are going to try to have other
amendments readyon the bill after this
vote, and also we are ready to get agree-
ments on any we can for tomorrow or for
Thursday. I know our leaders are work-
ing on that matter.

I have the Senator from New Hamp-
shire in mind here. I have asked him to
be prepared on a Special speech. and I
want a chance to hear his speech this
afternoon.

If Senators will excuse those rambling '
remarks. which are for the benefit of
Senators who may be interested, I now.
under tlwe circumstances, yield to the
m from Minnesota

Mfr. HUMPHREY Kr. President. if the
Senator will yield to me on the matter of
a rollcall, as I said yesterday, I was pre—
pared to go without it, but a number of

President, I yield

 




’S "9616

our colleagues have asked that we have it,
and I think it is only fair that I should
keep my word on it.

Mr. STENNIS. I take no exception to it.
I make the general observation that I
think we have to mend our ways on some
of these rollcalls.

Mr. DOLE. Mr. President, I would like
to associate myself with the remarks of
my friend from Minnesota, Mr. HUMPH-
REY, who has introduced an amendment
to the military procurement bill that

amendment.
PREVIOUS ACTION TAKEN

Last December, I wrote to John L.
McLucas, Secretary of the Air Force. to
protest experiments using beagle dogs to
test environmental pollutants at Wright-
Patterson Air Force Base is: Ohio I con»
sidered these experiments conducted on
mute victims to be cruel and inhumane. I
was assured at that time that it was not
the policy of the US. armed services to
conduct experiments that would cause
needless suffering and torture of these
domestic animals.

I now understand that the Edgewood
Arsenal Research Center has advertised
for 450 beagle puppies to be used in ex-
periments with toxic materials used in
chemical and biological warfare. I have
been informed that the research center
has used 446 beagles for these tests since
July 1, 1973. Those dogs that do not die
during the painful experiments are killed
later for autopsies to study the effects

of the gases. In many cases these animals
are debarked so they cannot emit so
much as a whimper during these experi-
ments.

CONGRESSIONAL MEASURE NEEDED

At present there are no laws to pro-
tact dogs in laboratories. No regulations
at all as to what can be done to them, no
requirements that they be handled hu-
manely—only suggested guidelines. It is
obvious to me that it will take more than
the public outcry to halt these experi-
ments and provide for the humane treat—
ment of these domestic animals.

It is the public policy in this Nation
to prevent inhumane treatment of both
dornestlc and Wild animals as evidenced
by the excellent and often thankless work
of the SPCA and various humane socie-
ties. The Congress itself has taken a
stand on the treatment of wild horses
and has set still anticruelty regulations
on trapping practices. The taxpayers re-
sent their tax dollars being used to n-
nance these experiments where no safe-
guards have been provided to insure
that the methods used are painless, or
am more humane. alternative pro-
cedures could not achieve the same re-
search results.

I believe it is time for the Congress to
help stop this barbaric cruelty. In addi-
tion to cosponsoring Senator HUMPHREY’S
amendment, 1 earlier introduced similar
legislation that would prohibit the de-
partments and agencies of the Federal
Government from using dogs in these ex-
periments, causing needless suffering
end inhumane treatment of these do-
mestic animals.

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE

I would hope that the Congress will
respond swiftly to this problem, and will
act to put an end to these practices
which are so abhorrent to the American
people.

Mr. MCINTYRE. Mr. President, I must
compliment my distinguished friend and
colleague, the Senator from Minnesota,
who has exhibited his admirable human-
itarian spirit by introducing an amend-
ment to prohibit the use of dogs for ex-
perimental purposes involving their ex‘
posure to poisonous gases, radioactive
materials, poisonous chemicals, and bio-
logical or chemical warfare agents. By
taking the lead on this matter Senator
HUMPHREY will be recognized as a leader
of humane causes.

I am surprised that the Department of
Defense opposes this amendment. But
then again. there are many other activi-
ties of the Department which also sur-
prise me.

Concern for this testing process was
ﬁrst brought to my attention by many
active members of New Hampshire's
Humane Society. Since that time I have
repeatedly expressed my concern for
these dogs to Secretary McLucas and was
surprised to read recently that this test-
ing process is being extended.

I ﬁnd it hard to believe that if testing
of these materials is necessary, no alter-
native method of testing can be em-

ployed. This matter has caused an un—

precedented swell of correspondence
from humane societies across the coun-
try.

Dogs have won a place in almost every—
one's heart and rightly so. As a watch-

dog this animal protects our lives, our'

children. and our property when we can-
not be there; as an aide dogs serve our
men-in-blue patrolling the dark and
lonely alleys of our cities; or snﬂing out
narcotics for our customs agents; as a
friend and companion the hunting dog
enhances our leisure time. I can think of
few crueler ways to utilize the talents of
this valuable member of the animal
kingdom than has the Department of
Defense.

There are many actions brought
against our animal population which. are
cruel and unfair. In the past I have sup-
ported legislation aimed at correcting
some of these abuses.

Therefore, I wish to join with mv good
friend from Minnesota in strongly rec‘
ommending adoption of his amendment

Mr. STENNIS. While I am not going
to vote for the amendment on the mili-
tary procurement bill, I have nothing
further to say, and I yield back my
time.

Mr. HUMPHREY. Mr.
yield back my time.

The PRESIDING OFFICER. All time
having been yielded back, the question is
on agreeing to the amendment of the
Senator from Minnesota.

The yeas and nays have been ordered.
and the clerk will call the roll

Mr. ROBERT C. BYRD. Mr. President,
I ask unanimous consent to proceed for
2 minutes.

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered

President, I

June 4, 1974

ORDER TO CONVENE AT 10 A. M. ON
WEDNESDAY, THURSDAY, AND
FRIDAY

Mr. ROBERT C. BYRD. Mr President,
I ask unanimous consent that when the

Senate completes its business today.

tomorrow, and Thursday, it stand in ad-
journment until the hour of 10 am. re-
spectively, on Wednesday, Thursday, and
Friday.

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered

 

ORDER TO CALL UP MANSFIELD
AMENDMENT TOMORROW

Mr. ROBERT C. BYRD. Mr. President,
I ask unanimous consent that at the close
of business tomorrow, the distinguished
majority leader may be recognized to call
up his troop withdrawal amendment and
that it be made the pending business for
Thursday.

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so Ordered.

 

‘

UNAN IM OUS—CONSEN T AGREEMENT

Mr. ROBERT C. BYRD. Mr. President.
the requests I am about to propound have
been cleared with the distinguished man-
ager of the bill (Mr. STENNIS), the dis-
tinguished ranking minority member of
the committee (Mr. THURMOND') , the dis-
tinguished assistant Republican leader
(Mr. GRIFFIN), and other Senators.

Mr. President, I ask unanimous con-
sent that on Thursday there be a time
limitation on the bill of 3 hours: that all
amendments dealing with troop with-
drawals and/or troop reductions be in
order for Thursday only: that there be a
time limitation on the Mansﬁeld amend-
ment of 3 hours, to be equally divided
between Mr. MANSFIELD and Mr. STENNIS.’
that there be a time limitation on any
amendment to that amendment- of 30
minutes, with a time limitation on any
debatable motion thereto or appeal of
30 minutes, to be equally divided and
controlled in accordance with the usual

.form; that there be. a. time limitation on

any other amendment to the bill. dealing
With troop witl'idrawals or troop reduc-
tions. of 1 hour, to be equally divided in
accordance with the usual form. with a
limitation on . amendments to such
amendment of 30 minutes, and the same
with reference to debatable motions and
appeals; and that the division of time
and the control of time be in accordance
with the usual form: with the under-
standing that Senators in control of the
time for debate on the bill may yield
therefrom to any Senator on any amend—
ment, debatable motion. or appeal.

Mr. MCINTYRE. Mr. President. may I
ask the majority whip a question?

Mr. ROBERT C. BYRD. Yes.

Mr. MCINTYRE. There is nothing $11.53.-
gested in your unanimous—consent agree-
ment which would prevent calling up my
amendment, along with that of Senator

BROOKE, on counterforce. which we would .

like to offer this week or sometime next
week?

Mr. ROBERT C. BYRD. No. This re-
quest, if- granted, would not prevent

 




'1‘ wuvv - -

1868 Coihr*:s Road, N.“
- C 70009

.mm 1,, 7.. 2’4’.

amendments dealing with other subjects
from being called up on Thursday. It
would, however, require all amendments
dealing with troop withdrawals and troop
reductions to be called up on Thursday.

Mr. GRIFFIN . Reserving the right to
object, the Senator's very last sentence
clears up a point which was not too
clear, because the majority whip said
the troop withdrawal amendments would
be called up, in order, on Thursday; but
it is further understood that all troops
withdrawal and troop reduction amend-
ments would be called up on Thursday.

Mr. ROBERT C. BYRD. They would
be required. In other words, they would
not be eligible on any other day.

. Mr. HUMPHREY. Mr. President, will
the Senator yield? That means we will
deﬁnitely vote on all troop withdrawal
amendments on Thursday, whatever the
hour. .

Mr. ROBERT C. BYRD. Yes. They will
be disposed of on Thursday.

Mr. HUMPHREY. Mr. President, will
the Senator yield for one other question?

Mr. ROBERT C. BYRD. Yes.

Mr. HUMPHREY. Do I understand
that on Friday we will not be on the De-
fense authorization bill?

Mr. ROBERT C. BYRD. Oh, yes, we
will still be on the Defense authorization
bill if it has not been disposed of on
Thursday, as it will probably not be. But
it would mean that no troop withdrawal
amendments or troop reduction amend-
ments would be in order on Friday or
thereafter.

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection to the unanimous-consent re-
quest?

Mr. GRIFFIN. Reserving the right to
object, it is my understanding that on
the Mansfield amendment there would
be a time limit of 40 minutes instead of
30 minutes.

Mr. ROBERT C. BYRD. The Senator
is correct. I modify my request accord-
ingly, Mr. President. We had ﬁrst
talked in terms of 30 minutes. I think the
chairman suggested 40 minutes. It will
be 40 minutes.

Mr. STENNIS. Mr. President, reserv-
ing the right to object, and I do not in~
tend to object, but to be certain we un-
derstand each other on troop withdrawal
or troop reduction amendments, the sub-
stance is they will be eligible on Thurs-
day of this week and at no other time.

Mr. ROBERT C. BYRD. The Senator
, is correct. ‘

Mr. STENNIS. Also, if there is time,
other amendments on other subjects can
be called up and disposed of. but only if
there is time to take care of them and
also to take care of the amendments on
troop reductions. ‘

Mr. ROBERT C. BYRD. The Senator
is correct; with the further understand—
ing that there would be no time limita-
tion on other amendments unless such
agreements were entered into subsequent
to this moment. ‘

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.

Mr. ROBERT C. BYRD. Mr. President,
it I may have 1 additional minute, I

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD ——- SENATE

ask unanimous consent that on the
amendment clea ing with the B-1 bom-
ber, to be pro ed by the distinguished
Senator from South Dakota (Mr. Mc-
GOVERN), there :'be a limitation thereon
of 3 hours, to be equally divided be-
tween Mr. McGovaaN and Mr. STENNIS.
with a limitation on any amendment
thereto of 30 ’ minutes, to, be equally
divided in accordance with the usual
form, with a time limitation on any
debatable motion or appeal, of 20 min-
utes, to be divided in accordance with
the usual form; and that the amend-
ment by Mr. MCGOVERN be laid down at
the close of business today.

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection? The Chair hears none, and it
is so ordered.

Mr. ROBERT C BYRD. I thank all
Senators.
ingly, Mr. President. We had ﬁrst talks
in terms of 30 minutes. I think the chair-

Mr. McINTYRE. Mr. President, may
I ask the majority whip whether he
cleared that Wtih the senior Senator
from South Dakota (Mr. McGovsaN)?

Mr. ROBERT "C. BYRD. Yes.

in
‘7

DEPARTMENT OF' DEFENSE APPRO-
PRIATION AUTHORIZATION ACT,
1975

The Senate continued with the con-
sideration of the bill (S. 3000) to author—
ize appropriations during the ﬁscal year
1975 for procuremnet of aircraft, mis-
siles, naval vessels, tracked combat ve-
hicles, torpedoes, and other weapons,
and research, development, test and eval-
uation for the Armed Forces, and to pre-
scribe the authorized personnel strength
for each active duty component and of
the Selected Reserve of each Reserve
component of the Armed Forces and of
civilian personnel of the Department of
Defense, and to, authorize the military
training student’loads, and for other pur-
poses. 5.

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The ques»
tion is agreeing to the amendment of
the Senator from Minnesota er. HUM~
pussy). On this question, the yeas and
nays' have been ordered, and the clerk
will call the roll.

The legislative clerk called the roll.

Mr. ROBERT C. BYRD. I announce
that the Senator from California (Mr.
Caansronl, the Senator from Arkansas
(Mr. FULBRroHr), the Senator from Ken-
tucky (Mr. HUDDLESTON),‘ the Senator
from Hawaii (Mr. INOUYE), the Senator
from Massachusetts (Mr. KENNEDY).
the Senator from Utah (Mr. Moss) , the

‘Senator from Alabama ( Mr. SPARKMAN),

the Senator from California (Mr. TUN-
NEY’, and the Senator from Indiana
(Mr. HARTKE) are necessarily absent.

I also announce that the Senator from ‘

Missouri ( Mr. SYMINGTON) is absent be-
cause of illness.

Mr. GRIFFIN. I announce that the
Senator from Oklahoma (Mr. Brannon).
and the Senator from Oregon (Mr.
Pncxwoool are necessarily absent.

The result was announced~yeas 76,
nays 12, as follows:

Washing:
Date: ma 1... f.

S 9617

[No. 225 Leg.)
YEAS—76

Dominick
Eagleton
Fannin
Fong
Goldwater
Gravel
Gri inn

G urney
Haskell.
Hatﬁeld
Hathaway
Helms
Holiinge
Hughes

Metcalt
Metzen baum
Mondale
Mon toys
Musk le
Nelson
Nunn
Pastore
Pearson
Pell

Percy
Proxmire
Randolph
Ribiooi!
Roth
Schweiker
Scott. Hugh
Staﬂord
Stevens
Stevenson
Talmadge
Thurmond
Weicker
Williams
Yr? u up;

Abourezk
Aiken
Allen
Baker
Bartlett
Bayh
Beall
Bentsen
Bible
Biden
Brock
Brooke
Buckley
Burdick
Byrd, Humphrey
Harry F., Jr. Jackson
Byrd, Robert C. Javits
Cannon Johnston
Case Long
Chiles Magnuson
Church
Clark
Cook
ﬁction
th’iit‘
Domenici

Mansﬁeld
Mathias
McClellan
McGee
MPG/N: rem
McIntyre

TRAYS-12

Hart

Hruska

McClure

Scott.
William L.

NOT VOTING—~12

Huddleston Pack wood
Inou ye Sparkman
Kennedy Symington
Moss Turin ey

Stennls
Taft
Tower

Bennett
Curtis
Eastland
Ervin
Hansen

Bellmon
Cranston
Fulbright
Hartke

So Mr. HUMPHREY'S amendment (No.
1378. as modified) was agreed to.

Mr. HUMPHREY. Mr. President. I
move that the vote by which the amend-
ment was agreed to be reconsidered.

Mr. ROBERT C. BYRD. Mr. President,
I move to lay that motion on the table.

The motion to lay on the table was
agreed to.

Mr. STENNIS. Mr. President. before
we take up the next amendment, there
is a certain matter pending here that
the Senator from New York (Mr. BUCK-
LEY) and the Senator from Nevada (Mr.
CANNON) want a 3—minute colloquy on,
and I ask unanimous consent that they
be allowed---

Mr. ROBERT C. BYRD. Without prej-
udice to the Senator from Delaware (Mr.
BIDEN) who has already been. recognized.

Mr. STENNIS. I um.lerstand————yes.

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection. it is so ordered.

Mr. BUCKLEY. Mr. President, I
thank the distinguished Senator from
Delaware and the committee chairman
for their accommodation. I am anxious
to clarify one item in the bill and address
my question to the Senator from Nevada
(Mr. CANNON). -

On lines 17 to 20 on page ‘2 of S. 3000.
funding for the A—lO or-the A-~-7D air-
craft is made conditional on the winner
of a ﬂy off competition betwwi'i such
aircraft.

I call attention to the language which
states:

. . . provided no objection is interposed by
any of the four authorizing or appropriation
committees having jurisdiction over such
procurement. . . .

Is it not a proper understanding of
that clause, that Congress does not in-
tend this procedure be used either to im-
pose undue delay in providing the pro-

 




S 9618 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD —-~ SENATE June .4, 1. .-

‘curement funds or to circumvent the to thank the distinguished Senator from my unemployment. and that as a conse—
results of a ﬂyoﬂ between the two air- Mississippi, the rest of the Armed Sew- quence of that, the total figure for budget
cram ices Committee and its staff for doing who“ 00““ be lemm-

Mr. CANNON. Mr. President. the an~ men a comprehensive and 1889011511313 A little later in the testimony, Secre—
swer tothat question is“Yes,” Isaytomy lob in regard to reporting the Defense wry Schlesinger said: - ,
colleague irom New. York. It is not our Department’s authorization request for . perception of
intent to delay procurement in any way. ﬁscal year 1975. _ em, 1 berm.

a matter t, that they In view of the overwhelming nature of a billion or a
n resolving the Defense Department’s annual re- less in (ﬁscal year)
quests and the speed with which the 1975- '
committee conducted hearings that were Interestingly enough, there was a fol-
, quite thorough and then marked up the lowup to mp Secretary’s remarks.

action is propo d‘ . bill for consideration by the full Senate. In the Washington Post. on May 22.
event there-was any desire I think that the distinguished Senator 1974, in a story by Michael ﬁction the

modify‘that in any way. SO there 15 no accomplished an even more formidable following points were made. '

' intent to delay the program . “Rd and noteworthy 10b- 1 should like .ngke Schlesinger sought to correct his own
the time constraints rotor . , one Jost ”Wk. before beglnmng (113-. earlier indications that as much as to

n the committee were ctm- , ' nt that I have billion extra may have been allowed to
,therefore. we didwrite in . ‘ . partments remain in the defense budget by the
the amcunt oi the funds into the bill but authorization for ﬁscal year in 1975. White House to pump up the domestic
put in the language so that they could 'I should like to express for myself and economy. ,
proceed in either direttlon my colleagues .0“? sentiment for the He said about $1.5 billion in actual
Mr. BUCKLEY. I thank my friend healthy return to your responsibilities spending was retained equal to perhaps
from Nevada very much for this clariﬁ' here in the Senate, Senator Srsnms. $2 to $3'billion in obligational authority.
cation; and also my colleague from Dela— At this time, I should like to open for At this time, I would like to assure vou.
ware (Mr. ann) for his accommoda- discussion my amendment to this de— Mr. President. that my argument does
tion. . _ tense. request. . . p. not rest on the fact that extra money
Mr. BIDEN. Mr. President, I ask This amendmentls diVided into two was added to the budget late in the
unanimous consent that a member of my sections. ' budget cycle or even that money was in
staff, Dale Lewis, be permitted the priv- . The first section declares the will of there that might ordinarily have been
ilegoottllenoor. A , . 7 Congress that the Defense Department cut out if our country had been enjoying
The PRESIDING OFFICER. WlthOUt may not» during any ﬁscal year adlllsl; its normal economic times, but rather that
objection. it is so ordered. -. . budget to help stimulate or effect a somehow. some of the budget contains
wmmm- no. 1232 ’ u change in the domestic economy. money that can be construed from the
Mr. BIDEN. Mr.Presldent,Icall up my ‘ “5:13:50 1372:? be expressly prohibited Secretary Of- Defenses' testimony as
. . . ' ' mm m lo h
ggzggment, No. 1282. and ask that it be Second, this amendment requires the Emma g or e p yment growt

The PRESIDING omens. The Semi“ of Doleme to submit 3 written tion is that the defense

. to the Congress within 30 days of _ , .
amen ill be eta . 7 report at is an inappropriate place to
The legislative clerk read as follows: enactment 0f the ﬁscal year 1975 De- cushion, prime or stimulate the domestic

. partment of Defense budget authoriza- economy
d 16. insert . . . , p
a waigzgign :tmaglmlilznes 15 an tion appropriation SPECHY‘PE and d8“ 1. along with the distinguished chair—
sllc. 702 (a) The Congress declares that it lineating amounts, if 3'an included for man, can only support-amid I do not
. function of the Department the 9mm purpose 0‘ stimulating 01‘ mean ‘ to imply that he uncategorically
of Detense. in determining tho amount of “10 effecting 9‘ change in- the domestic supports thiswappropriations that re-
budeet for 1111“ Martino“ for on? 115““ 9001103157- , spend to the needs of our national de—
year, like allowances for amounts needed some might ask why such an amend-r tense and security.
“”9““ ‘ change . ment 13 113083331?- 1 think that all of my fellow colleagues
' 1 offer it to my distinguished col-4 would agree that in debating this pro-
leagues 101’ consideration in “55901139 to posed budget request we should not con-
mmlatmg or certain statements that Secretary 01 Dc- slder amounts included to help cushion
he domestic tense Schlesinger made. during hearings our slumping economy against rising
r. 0f 5‘10!) on mm 29, 1974. before the House mienlployment. ‘
y author- Appropﬁﬁtlom DCfeIISe subcgmnlittee, I raise tlllg Q ﬂagtion‘ Mallge “1-119“ “ye
0’ "we“ and “15° to “’me folio-ring the-‘39 put this issue in its proper perspective,-
hearings. . one must ask. why use defense spending
(bl. The secretary of De Although there seems to be some oon- rather than increased spending in the
“'mm "W“ ‘0 the cm?” tradictions in various statements that civilian sector of the Federal budget to
than as: tafeomcogcogmg he made, the gist of Secretary Schlesln—‘ stimulate O, aid the economy?
n n“ S we ’ '5 remarks indicate that there 15 an I would argue that other departments

located or included in the budget of the De-
ﬁgment of Defense tor the ﬁscal year ending element 0‘ economic stimulation in the of the Federal Government might better

June 30, 1975, which were requested or in— 9919380 Department fiscal year 1975 help decrease uncmplbyment by produc-
°1Wd ‘0’ ““3 WWW Puma” 0’- stimulat~ budget request. ing more jobs and increasing the output
“18 01‘ 0”“er meeting. “ Change in “‘0 I should like to quote from parts of of goods and services than the Defense
“mew" ecommy- Secretary Schlesmcer’s testimony. Department.
Mr. 30an C. BYRD. Mr. President, This may be found in part, 1, page 336 .I should like to share some statistics
will the Senator from Delaware be agree- 0! the Defense Department hearings be- With you. Mr. President, compiled by the
able to a time limitation of 30 minutes fore the House Defense Appropriations 03- Department of Labor. in the Bureau
to be equally divided between Senator Subcommittee. of Labor Statistics. bulletin No. 1,733,
Sunnis and the Senator from Delaware? Secretary Schlesinger said: 1972. table 9 that show that $1 billion

Mr, BIDEN. 1 have no objection. It (1301975 Budget Request) only provides 2T3; (220692”! . unt .- pgSmtJ‘i‘l);

YRD PI'E ' coono stimulus in the sense that Mr. S 8 am0 8 a

mgriaonmr (El? and agitunanignedﬁs’ Manon W the subject, that is. the State and local level would create 80.041
consent that it be done “on” budget misfit have shrunk in mi jobs it spent on healthcare and 104,019
' . ~ purchasing power were it not for the jobs if spent on education. °

The PRESIDING OFFICER Without °mpl°ym°m muatmn‘ Money spent in the civilian sector has

ﬁlial-10m it 13 8° ordered- Secretary Schlesinger also said: a greater potential to have a multiplier
Mr. BIDEN. Mr. President, I do not But I believe it was recognized late ln‘ effect by creating more jobs.

anticipate taking the full 30 minutes, calendar year 1973 that there may be an Basically, I am making two proposi-
but I Would like to take this opportunity easing of the economy and some growth tions.

 

 

 




 

Nurﬁ'ﬁmN ‘AND CANCER

Mr. HUMPHREY. Mr. President, the
American Cancer Society estimates that
355,000 Americans Will die of cancer in
1974. All of ushope and pray that some-
how we can learn to prevent cancer and
to help alleviate the pain and suﬁering
of millions of people who are victims of
this disease.

At this time I would like to pay tribute
to Dr. Roger John Williams, a man who
not only shares these concerns but who
through the years has been responsible
for major advances in the ﬁeld of cancer
research. One of the foremost nutrition-
ists in this country, Dr. Williams re-
ceived his Ph. D. from the University of
Chicago in 1919, has been a professor at
the University of Texas for numerous
years and is the author of a plethora of
books and articles including “The Nutri-
tional Approach,” “Nutrition in 9. Nut-
shell,” “You Are Extraordinary,” and
“Nutrition Against Disease, Environ-
mental Prevention.”

In a recent presentation in Minnesota,
entitled “The Neglect of Nutritional
Science in Cancer Research,” Dr. Wil-
liams states that cancer research is not
comprehensive due to a lack of expertise
in cellular nutrition. He explains why
cellular nutrition is crucial in cancer
research, claiming that cellular nutrients
Constitute a complex and most vital part
of the environment of cells and possibly
the growth of abnormal cancer cells. I
think it is important that his conclusions
reach as many Americans as possible. I
commend his paper to my colleagues.

Mr. President, I ask unanimous con-
sent that Dr. Williams’ paper be printed
in the RECORD.

There being no objection, the paper
was ordered to be printed in the RECORD,
as follows:

THE NEGLECT or NUTRITIONAL SCIENCE IN

CANCER RESEARCH
(By Roger J. Williams)

1. Cancer Research Not Critically Ham-
pered by Lack of Support or Dearth of Many
Kinds of Competent Specialists.

The ﬁnancial support of cancer research
runs into hundreds of millions of dollars an-
nually in this country and the public mood
wood justify much expansion of this sup-
port if promising progress were in sight. If
cancer research is failing in any degree, the
primary lack seems not to be supporting
funds. -

Neither do we believe that a primary lack
is for competent specialists of many kinds.
There are hundreds of highly competent spe-

 




 




October 16, "197.1

eialists who are carrying out fundamental
investigations related to cancer. These may
include biochemists, biophysicists, molecular
biologists, geneticists, cytologists, tissue cul-
turists, virologists, microbiologists, im-
munologists, electron microscopists, statis-

tical‘ experts, endocrinologists, radiologists,

epidemiologists, pathologists and surgeons.
We do not believe that the general quality
of these investigations or the general com-
petence of the investigators to do what they
undertake can be questioned. However, nei-
ther do we believe that increasing the num-
ber of these specialists or increasing their
support would bring about'any phenomenal
improvement in the over-all progress in can-
cer research.

2. Cancer Research Not Comprehensive;
Lack of Expertise in Cellular Nutrition.

In no public or private institute dealing
with cancer research anywhere in the world,
are there groups of real experts in cellular
nutrition. By an expert in cellular nutrition
I mean one who has a grasp, or at least seeks
to have, of what is currently known about
all the cell nutrients and how each enters
nutritionally into cellular metabolism. Such
experts, it may be taken for granted, would
have a keen desire to explore for more in-
sight into these processes. The entire gamut
of all cell nutrients would be in the pur-
view of such experts—the minerals, trace
minerals, amino acids, purines, pyrimidines,
sugars and all the vitamins which function
in this way. If there are unrecognized miss-
ing links, these should'be the cause of deep
concern, because as long as there are “un-
knowns” among the cellular nutrients cru-
cial gaps are present with respect to our
knowledge of the whole process. No cell can
be even passably nourished unless it gets
some supply of every single needed item.

The current lack of expertise in the ﬁeld
of cellular nutrition is indicated by the fact
that many elementary questions in this area
are unanswerable on the basis of present
knowledge and those who grow cells in tissue
culture are often unconcerned about the
exact chemical composition of their culture
media. Some pertinent questions are: How
do the nutritional requirements of different
types of cells in the body differ from each
other? Do most cells which are capable of
becoming malignant have complex nutri4
tionalrequirements comparable to thecom-
plete needs of the body as a whole? When
healthy cells become malignant, how do their
nutritional requirements change? Do car-
cinogens often act by disturbing cellular
nutrition? If so, how? To what extent do
the cells in our bodies normally or abnor-
mally nourish each other? (There is strongly
suggestive evidence that glutamine and per-
haps inositol, lipoic acid and many other
substances are produced by some somatic
cells and are required nutritionally by other
cells.1 Yet deﬁnitive knowledge on this vast

subject is lacking in spite of its extreme per-l

tinence to the important question "Do en-
dogenous carcinogens function to induce
‘spontaneous’ cancers?”)

If there were groups of real experts in cel-
lular nutrition in the cancer ﬁeld, there
would be numerals up-to-date books, articles
and reviews dealing with the subject of how
nutrition, and cellular nutrition in particu-
lar, are related to cancer. But these books,
articles and reviews do not exist. In “Cancer
Research," Cumulative Index for 1966-70,
there are only 2 entries under Nutrition in
contrast to 110 under Cell(s) .

3. Why This Omission From
Research? ' ‘

The primary cause of lack of attention to
cellular nutrition in cancer research lies in
the neglect of nutritional science by medical
schools and medical scientists in general2 8 4
This has persisted for at least sixty years.

Cancer

Footnotes at end of article.

\ "-. ' ' : {55"

Somehow the idea seems to have become
established in medical circles very early that
those who dealt in nutrition, vitamins and
the like were interlopers if not imposters and

presumably in league with those who would-

advocate wholesale self -medication to replace
professional medicaI care. Anyhow it seemed
to the opinion makers that nutrition was not
a subject which was worthy of the serious
attention of true medical scientists. Later,
when the existence and reality of vitamins
were ﬁrmly established this attitude changed
only slightly and Western medicine seem-
ingly adopted the opinion: Yes, the vitamins
are valuable in a limited way for the treat-
ment of a few speciﬁc diseases, most of which,
however, are of little interest today.

If there had been broader perspective, espe-
cially in the light of modern knowledge, it
would have been recognized that vitamins
(and all other nutrients) enter intimately
into all metabolism, and that whenever me-
tabolism is involved (which is always, in liv-
ing things) nuti ition is crucial and must be
understood. In keeping with an anti-nutri-
tion bias, however, physicians were sometimes
taught not to “believe in vitamins”, Which is
about as ridiculous as it would be not to be«
lieve in protein, amino acids, calcium or
iodine.

The neglect of nutrition in medical schools
became so obvious and compelling that Sena-
tar Sohweiker‘ of Pennsylvania intro-
duced a bill into the U.S. Senate in
1973 providing for a substantial appro-
priation to insure that physicians would be
taught something about nutrition.5 It is un-
believable how far removed from nutrition
the thinking of many medical scientists is.

4. Why Cellular Nutrition is Crucial in

Cancer Research.
4 I see clearly the need for insight into cellu-
lar nutrition, partly because of my special in-
terest in this ﬁeld. I published my ﬁrst paper
dealing with cellular nutrition in 1919, and
years later discovered pantothenic acid in
pursuance of this initial interest. The scien-
tiﬁc background on which this need rests is
ﬁrm and ca‘ii be stated simply if we accept as
a basic problem the need to understand fully
why and how cancers originate. Both of the
two basic types of factors which enter into
this problem-hereditary and environmental—
must be explored fully in any comprehensive
cancer research program, and the environ-
mental factors cannot possibly be fully ex-
plored without serious attention to cellular
nutrition. Cellular nutrients constitute a
complex and most vital part of the environ-
ment of cells.

Cellular nutrition is most complicated and
embraces the complete assortment of two or
three score of different constructive chemi-
cals of great variety as well as the undesir-
able toxicants in foods6 may interfere with
nutrition—everything that cells encounter
or take in from their external environment.
These factors do not act singly but in con-
junction with each other. Cells need for con-
tinued health not just a few environmental
factors like a suitable ambient temperature,
oxygen and water, but a complete gamut of
a large number of chemical factors which
are derived nutritionally from the blood.
Whether cellular nutrition should be con-
sidered crucial to cancer research hinges on
a question the answer to which seems ob-
vious: Must we be thorough and conversant
with the total environment of cells, or should
we be content with a very limited and per-

haps convenient part of the environment?? ’

Certainly one of the reasons why cellular
nutrition is so fundamentally important for
comprehensive cancer research lies -in the
possibility that cells which are nourished at

a high level of excellence may be able to re».

sist successfully the "action of carcinogens
and the attack of~ cancer viruses-3v 8 Because
of a current lack of expertise in cellular nus
trition no group in cancer reSearcIi is able

u “911.1. us cuu ,

Date:

U 1‘ U a
ﬁg? "3, "207/1.

L .

(«UUUU

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD 4- SENATE

of this possibility. Because of this same de

ﬁciency in canoer research it has been very
difﬁcult or impossible to gmsp fully and crit-
ically make use of or extend the ideas about
cancer expressed by three Nobel Laureates
Otto Warburg,9 Albert Szent-Gyorgi,1° and

~Linus Pauling, 11 all of whom have implicitly

thought in terms of cellular nutrition and
metabolism.9 10.11. «.4-‘-~
Because of lack of expertise in cellular
nutrition scant attention has been paid to?
the problem of how human nutrition may;
related to cancer incidence. We assume-331.. fa
course, that there is no easy way to prevent
cancers by dieting or simple nutritious:
manipulation. What we do not know experts
might help us ﬁnd out: “Can cancers be pre

vented by expert manipulation of the feta .3“
,nutritional environment?” This possibility

is greatly strengthened by the fact that ,
intake of various nutrients and nutrijt
mixtures in appropriate circumstances WI
most certainly help prevent the occurrence
of carcinogen-induced cancers in animals. 8’

5. Three Nutritional Principles Must be A'
plied in the Field of Cancer Research

In a forthCOming book12 there have been?

set forth, after extensive consultations
twelve principles which underlie nutritional?“ .

science. These are all valid in the area of
cancer research but three of them deserve
special mention because they are particularly
applicable:

I. Organisms, and cells, commonly if not
universally subsist in nature on imperfect,
sub- -optimal nutrition—nutrition , which

could be improved if the environmental. faca'z’Tﬁ,
tors involved were more favorably adjuSt-y
ed "‘1:

II. Nutrients, as such, function 'only when)», .2:

they participate in teamwork with all other
nutrients. They are like nuts, bolts, spindles

’and gears in a complicated machine which

cannot operate unless all parts are present.
III. Individuality in nutrition is of crucial

importance. The facts (not theories) of bio-“1". ”g
chemical individuality are suﬂiciently strik- 1

ing that they have to be taken into ac;-
count in every study involving the etiology
or progress of any disease.

These three principles are newly assimilat-

ed concepts and each has a directbearing on... ‘

cancer research. For example, if cells normal-4; .1

1y received optimal nutrition, then there

would be no room for improving the nutri4 _

tional environment and no chance of; in»

.1, 1

creasing the resistance of cells to unfavorable~* " .1

‘environmental agents. Consequently if We
accept the ﬁrst principle, listed above, we _
automatically see vast possibilities for M4

proving the complex environment of cells
There was considerable interest in the 19403
in nutrition as it relates to cancer. There Was

hope at that time that some newly\dis4- , ' “"7

covered vitamin or nutrient would serve to
unlock, or partially unlock, the cancer
problem.

The reasbn for failure now evident, in I‘

view of 2nd principle. If we acceptthe sec-
0nd principle listed above, we should ._ not
expect too much from any single nutrient; ‘ .
rather we would be concerned about \the

total nutritional environment including ”all
nutrients.
to cancer-inducing agents by nutritional
means, this will be accomplished only by
recognizing the teamwork principle. If as
seems certain, there are “unknowns” in cellu4
lar nutrition (otherwise all cells couId be
grown in chemically deﬁned media) these
unknowns must be recognized and prov1ded

If cells are to be made resistant “ ‘

for, before the participation of all the nutri— - I.

cuts in teamwork can be assured. In Our ‘ ’

laboratories 'we successfully applied this

teamwork principle to a test case—the pre-

ventiOn of galactose-miduced cataracts in
rats. 13 When we attempted to furnish rats
with a eomplete team of nutrients... 9.1011

.to affirm, deny, or adequately assess the value? .1

 




V

f s. 192116

The principle of nutritional individuality
crops up continually whenever nutrition is
studied intensively. One of the speciﬁc lines

of investigation which has been neglected,

partly because of lack of attention to the
individuality principle, has to do with the
differences between the biochemical and nu-
tritional patterns of cancer-resistant and
cancer susceptible animals. When we are
satisﬁed by merely stating that these differ—
ences are genetic, we are dodging many cru-

‘. cial problems. Twenty or more years ago

there were available strains of mice with a
very high incidence of “spontaneous” mam-
mary cancer,.and other strains with a'veryﬁr
low incidence. It was never determined
What the differences in the nutritional re-

~ quirements of these strains might be or

whether their susceptibility could be modi-
ﬁed by nutritional means. The status of nu-
tritional science is such that we still have

' limited knowledge of the detailed nutritional

requirements of any strain 'ce or of
mice generally, as compared with rats. Much
less do we know, of course, about the nutri-
tional requirements of indiwduaLaanals,
though we do know that even among mem—

: bers of closely inbred strains of rats and

‘. mice 14,15 and monozygous quadruplet arma—

M ‘ dillos,16 striking biochemical differences exist.
,. Among the members of the inbred strains of

. 111 cc which were generally highly susceptible

to mammary cancer, there were resistant in—

dividual animals, and among the cancer re-

sistant mice there were susceptible individu-

als. A is is unexplained and probably
Will remain so until more attention in paid
to individuality in nutrition. In this con-
nection it should be stated that according

.to the genetotrophic principle,17 hereditary

differences and variation in nutritional

needs go hand in hand. Inheritable weak-

1-. nesses which are associated with unusual nu—

‘the details of cancer

scientists have the background
- chemistry and related ﬁelds to train them-'

tritional demands, can presumably be com-
pletely corrected by nutritional adjustments.
Because a human being (or animal) is
susceptible to cancer does not necessarily
mean that he or she will be aﬂiicted.

6. Prevention Requires Attention: There
is Hope.

One does not have to be conversant with
research to recognize
is being paid to the
of curative measures,
and that prevention is stressed compara-
tively little. If there are practical ways of
preventing cancers from occuring, these
should be of the utmost public interest. It
is in the. area of prevention that expertise
in cellular nutrition offers the greatest prom-
ise and it can truthfully be said that be—
cause of a lack of this expertise, the scien-
tiﬁc nutritional approach to the prevention
of cancers has never been tried. It is but
natural that lack of interest in nutrition
would go hand in hand with a lack of atten-

that much attention
possible development

' ' tion to prevention.

The bolstering of. cancer research by the
inclusion of cellular nutrition can be brought
about when the need is recognized. Many
in bio-

selves in nutritional science once their in-
terest is aroused.

Fundamentally, however, all medical sci-
entists need to learn about nutrition, and
this -must be learned in medical schools if
not earlier. While there is ﬂagrant lack in
medical schools we believe that nutrition
education (not of the faddist variety) must

’ be furnished to the entire population. Stu-

dents graduating from high schools and col-
leges should already know more about nu-
trition than medical students now know

when they graduate from medical schools.

There is nothing that a teen-ager can learn
in schOol which is more important than
how to improve his Isub-optiinal nutritional

_ environment and his Own health and de-
. velopment by wise selection. of food.

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE

The advantages of becoming versed in nu-
tritional science (including cellular nutri-
tion) are not limited to the cancer
problem. Research in heart disease, arthritis,
mental disease, alcoholism and many other
diseases would be greatly beneﬁted if ex-
perts in cellular nutrition were to partici-
pate. Prevention of disease would then
become far more dominant in medical sci-
ence. “And perhaps someday the United
States will have a true National Institutes
of Health rather than the current National
Institutes of this or that disease.”

FOOTNOTES
, 1 William, Roger J. (1961) “The Expanding
Horizon in Nutrition”, Texas Reports in Bio-

.logy and Medicine 19, 245—258.

2Williams, Roger J.’ (1971) “How Can the
Climate in Medical Education be Changed?”,
Perspectives in Biology and Medicine 14,
608-614.

3Williams, Roger J. (1971) “The Flaw in
Medical Education”. in Nutrition Against
Disease (Pitman Publishing Corp., New
York, N.Y.) , pp. 3—19.

4Butterworth, Charles , E. (1974) “The
Skeleton in the Hospital Closet”, Nutrition
Today 9, 4—8.

5Schweiker, Richard S. (Senator) (1973)
Bill S. 324 Congressional Record, January 11.

6 National Research Council, Food and
Nutrition Board (1973) Toxicants Occurring
Naturally in Foods, Second Edition, Wash-
ington, DC. (National Academy of Sciences
Printing and Publishing Ofﬁce.)

7 Williams, Roger J. (1972) “ ‘Supernutri-
tion’ as a St ategy for the Control of Disease”,
Journal of Orthomolecular Psychiatry 1,
pp. 98—103

SWilliams, Roger J. (1971) “How is the
Cancer Problem Related?” in Nutrition
Against Disease (Pitman Publishing Corp.,
New York, N. Y. ), pp. 176—184.

9 Warburg, Otto.

1° Szent-Gyorgi, Albert

11 Pauling, Linus

”Williams, Roger J. (1974 in press) “Bio-
chemical Individuality” in Physicians’ Nu-
trition Handbook (Charles C. Thomas, Publ.,
Springﬁeld, Illinois) , pp. ?

13 Heﬂley, James D., and Williams, Roger J.
(1974) “The Nutritional Teamwork Ap-
proach: Prevention and Regression of Cata-
racts”, Proc. Nat. Acad. Sci. USA 71, pp ?

14 Williams, Roger J., Pelton, R. B., and
Siegel, F. L. (1962) “Individuality as Ex-
hibited by Inbred Animals: Its Implications
for Human Behavior”, Proc. Nat. Acad. Sci.
48, 1461.

15 Williams, Roger J ., and Pelton, Richard
B. (1966) “Individuality in Nutrition: Ef-
fects of Vitamin A-Deﬁcient and. Other Deﬁ-
cient Diets on Experimental Animals”, Proc.
Nat. Acad. Sc. 55, pp. 126—134.

1‘3 Storrs, E. E., and Williams, R. J. (1968)
“A Study of Monozygous Quadruplet Arma-
dillos in Relation to Mammalian Inheri-‘
tance”, Proc. Nat. Acad. Sci. 60, 910—914.

17 Williams, R. J., Beerstecher, E., Berry,
L. J. (Feb. 1950) “The Concept of Geneto-
trophic Disease”, T3; Lancet, p. 287.

 

CORRECTION OF THE RECORD

Mr. HANSEN. Mr. President, on page
S19104 of the October 11, 1974, RECORD
a statement by Senator DOMENICI in-
cluded testimony attributed to Mr. Jack
Ruggs, president of the New Mexico Res-
taurant Association. Senator DOMENICI
has asked me in his absence to make a
correction regarding\ the person who
actually presented the testimony. Ac-
cordingly, I ask unanimous consent that
the RECORD be changed to attribute that
testimony to Mr. Howard Cowper, execu-

, tive director of the New Mexico Restau- .
. rant Association. ’

J

5"
Octcber 16, 197-1,

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is.) so ordered.

 

THE GENOCDDE TREATY; A CUL-
MINATION OF AMERICAN PRINCI-
PLES OF HUMAN RIGHTS

Mr. PROXMIRE. Mr. President,
throughout the ZOO-year history of this
country, our leaders have spoken out for
individual human rights. Indeed, our
country has often been pointed to by
other nations as the stronghold of free-
dom and justice and used as an example
as having a superb record on human
rights. 7

Thomas Jefferson, one of. our Found-
ing Fathers wrote in a letter to James
Madison in 1787:

Let me add that a bill of rights is what
the people are entitled to against every gov-
ernment on earth, general or particular, and
what. no just government should refuse or
rest on inference.

Shortly thereafter, in 1821, during a
New York Convention on Universal Suf-
frage, Chancellor Kent offered praise for
the American system:

The tendency of universal suffrage, is to
jeopardize the rights of property, and the.
principles of liberty. There is a constant
tendency in human society, and the history
of every age proves it; there is a tendency-
in the . . . majority to tyrannize over the
minority, and trample down their rights; in
the indolent and the proﬂigate, to cast the
whole burthens of society upon the indus—
trious and the virtuous; and there is a ten-
dency in ambitious and wicked men, to in-
ﬂame these Combustible materials. It re-
quires a vigilant government, and a ﬁrm ad-
ministration of justice to counteract that
tendency.

Not until the issuance of the Genocide
Treaty could these American ideals be
questioned with any validity. Bound to
the American refusal toratify the docu-
ment are various verbal attacks on the
integrity of the American system. One
country has gone so far as to claim that
the United States is . “hypo-critical” in
that we “resolutely refused to accept legal
obligations” through the ratiﬁcation of
the Genocide Treaty.

The need for American ratiﬁcation of
this document is overwhelming. In a
demonstration of the role We must play
in the international scene, Chief Justice
Earl Warren spoke of this country’s high
reputation:

Our Bill of Rights, the most precious part
of our legal heritage, is under subtle and
pervasive attack. . . . In the struggle between
our world and Communism, the temptation
to imitate totalitarian security methods
must be resisted day by day. . . . When the
rights of any individual or group are chipped
away, the freedom of all erodes.

Mr. President, in the
Thomas Jefferson’s high ideals; the
models set forth by the many conven-
tions and assemblies afﬁrming these
principles; and in the interest of pre-
serving our international integrity, I urge
ratiﬁcation of the Genocide Convention
Accords of 1949 without further delay.

interest of

 

JEROME AND SHOSHANA CARDIN

Mr. MATHIAS. Mr. President, many
ambitious governmental programs are

 




HERMAN E. TALMADGE, 6A., CHAIRMAN

JAMES O. EASTLAND, MISS.

CARL T. CURTIS, NEBR-

GEORGE MC GOVERN, S. DAK. GEORGE D. AIKEN, VT.

JAMES B. ALLEN, ALA.

MILTON R. YOUNG, N. DAK-

HUBERT H. HUMPHREY, MINN. ROBERT DOLE, KANS.
WALTER D. HUDDLESTON, KY. HENRY BELLMON, OKLA.

DICK CLARK, IOWA

MSW-SM ’PJCnifeh ${afes ﬁenafe

COTYS M. MOUSER, CHIEF CLERK

COMMITTEE ON
AGRICULTURE AND FORESTRY

WASH INGTON . D.C. 20510

September 5, 1974

David T. Lykken, Ph.D.

Professor

Department of Psychiatry, Research Unit
Medical School

Box 392, Mayo Memorial Building

The University of Minnesota
Minneapolis, Minnesott 55455

Dear Dr. Lykken:

On behalf of Senator Humphrey, who is on a special
Congressional mission to the People's Republic

of China, I am acknowledging your recent letter
pertaining to the proposed regulations of the
Department of Interior regarding the importation
of wild animals.

I am happy to hear that you find these regulations
acceptable. I am forwarding a copy of your letter
to the Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs
for their information.

With best wishes.

Sincerely,

.I‘IH‘.
, V, .
w- ,r; , 1- , (.1. i ; 7 a
.n'f . :3. _ I y I -. ; ’4, :1 1!,
ﬂ u w "
ﬂ, L, . , , x
V, f

(r
.f

' fDavid G. Gartner
Administrativewﬂssistant
to SenatorﬂHumphre§\

4/
/
g,

, 4/"

 




HUBERT H. HUMPHREY
MINNESOTA

’QICniieb ﬁfafes ﬁenafe

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20510

September 5, 1973

Mr. Edward R. Greenwood
P. O. Box 368
Buchanan Dam, Texas 78609

Dear Mr. Greenwood:

Thank you so much for your letter of concern about the
treatment of animals used for scientific experimentation.

As you are no doubt aware, the Animal Welfare Act of 1970
as amended prescribes various regulations concerning the
creature comforts for these animals.

A great deal of publicity has develOped, both from the
scientific community and humane societies, that the Depart-

ment of Agriculture contemplates amending these regulations
further to establish a mandatory period of exercise for

these lab animals as well as new size requirements for their
cages. The humane societies believe these new regulations

to be in the best interest of the animals while the scientific
organizations maintain such a plan to be extremely costly.

The Department informs me that while they are seriously
considering just such a proposal, no rulemaking has as yet
been introduced.

You may be assured that should such a proposal be introduced,
I will support the Department's efforts for the continued
kind and humane treatment of these animals.

Best wishes.

Sincerely,

Hubert H. Humph ey

 




HUBERT H. HUMPHREY
MINNESOTA

QICnifeb ${afez $2uafe

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20510

January 31, 1973

Ms. Olga Hoback
616 Oakdale Avenue
Chicago, Illinois 60657

Dear Ms. Hoback:

Many thanks for taking the time to write to me.

I, too, am opposed to the cruel and inhumane practice of poisoning predatory
animals. Any attempt to repeal or weaken the Executive order which prohibits
this practice will be met with stiff opposition.

Best wishes.

Sincerelyg

Hubert H. Humph

 




HERMAN E. TALMADGE, 6A., CHAIRMAN

ALLEN J. ELLENDER, LA. JACK MILLER, IOWA
JAMES O. EASTLAND, MISS. GEORGE D. AIKEN, VT.

B. EVERETT JORDAN, N.C. MILTON R. YOUNG, N. DAK.
GEORGE MC GOVERN, S. DAK. CARL T. CURTIS, NEBR.

JAMES B. ALLEN, ALA. ROBERT DOLE, KANS. fa ,
Eiﬁ‘iiL‘éﬁ’EZ‘f‘éii‘f’ 0.... ,J [mica ﬁfafez ﬁenaie
cons M. MOUSER, CHIEF CLERK COMMITTEE ON
AGRICULTURE AND FORESTRY
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20510

August 8, 1972

Mrs. Leon Warner
1475 Hunter Drive
Wayzata, Minnesota 55391

Dear Mrs. Warner:

My position on the Protection of Marine Mammals bill,
8.2871, has been to support the bill with the appropriate
modifications whiCh, in my opinion, improved the bill.

I am confident that this legislation will be regarded

as a milestone in the protection of our environment and
in an increased appreciation of the role which mammals
have to play. At the same time, the bill takes account

of those groups who would otherwise be unfairly hurt

by unnecessarily strict controls.

There is more to be done, and I intend to Work with members
of the Commerce Committee, and with outside groups, to
push for the kind of improvements we tried to achieve

in this year's legislation.

Best wishes.

Sin erely,

Hubert H. Humphr

 




HUBERTH.HJMPHREY

M [:4 N ESOTA

gfnﬂcb ${afcs ﬁcnafe

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20510

March 30, 1972

Mrs. Leon C. Warner
Wayzata, Minnesota

Dear Mrs. Warner:

Thank you for sharing with me your thoughts concerning the cruel slaying
of seals. I share your distress over this practice.

I have joined in ”I. This
legislation would pro ibit the taking of ocean mammals by U. S. citizens

or vessels subject to U. S. jurisdiction, and prohibit the import of ocean
mammals, or any part or product thereof, into this country. This ban

on imports would remove the economic incentive for much of the slaughter
by other nations, since many of the products of the ocean mammals are
designed for the American market.

Best wishes.

Sincerely,

Hubert H. Humph

 




‘5 s 2208

Q

, .
EDUCATION AMENDMENTS OF
1972—AMENDME’NTS

AMENDMENTS NOS. 910 AND 911

(Ordered to be irinted and to lie on
the table.) ._

Mr. ERVIN (for himself, Mr. BAKER,
Mr. BENNETT, Mr. BROOK, Mr. BYRD of
Virginia, Mr. EAST .AND, Mr. ELLENDER,
Mr. GAMBRELL, Mr. GURNEY, Mr. HOL-
LINGS, Mr. JORDAN of North Carolina, Mr.
LONG, Mr. MCCLEL LAN, Mr. SPARKMAN,

~ Mr. STENNIs, Mr. 'IALMADGE, Mr. THUR-

MOND, and Mr. To: ER) submitted two
amendments intendi d to be proposed by
them jointly to th committee amend-
ment offered as a. substitute for the
-House amendment 0 S. 659, a bill to
amend the Higher E ucatio-n Act of 1965,
the Vocational Edu .ation Act of 1963,
and related acts, and for other purposes.“
AMENPMEN'J No. 915

(Ordered to be p ted and to lie on
the table.)

 

 

’the committee ameno ‘

‘1 of a substitute for

me to S. 65.9, supra.
wt 1

 

OCEAN MAMMAL PROEQTION
’ ACT—AMENDMENT

AMENDMENT NO. 9 1 3

(Ordered to 'be printed and referred
to the Committee on Commerce.)
WE SHOULD STOP THE KILLING OF DOLPHINS
.»AND OTHER OCEAN MAMMALS.
Mr.‘HUMPHREY. Mr. President, last
week I submitted to the Senate Sub—
committee on Oceans and Atmospheres

- an amendment to S. 2579, the ocean

mamal protection bill which would
bring an immediate halt to the sense-
less killing of dolphins, as well as all
other ocean mammals. I also presented
a statement as testimony for the sub-
c-ommittee’s hearings on the bill, describ-
ing the situation that prompted me to
offer this amendment.

In my written testimony I singled out
one group of ocean mammals for our
immediate attention: the dolphins, one
of the world’s most highly developed
creatures. Literally hundreds of thou-
sands of dolphins and porpoises are being
killed each year needlessly. This kind of
senseless killing offers no particular
ﬁnancial gain’, but it does ignore the
important contributions which these
mammals make to nature and to science.
Moreover, were the dolphins to become
extinct, we would be taking a step back-
ward in our attempt to establish a more
humane world.

My amendment would provide the
necessary safeguards to stave off the
rapid extinction of the dolphins and the
other ocean mammals threatened with
extinction. It would:

First, prohibit commercial ﬁshing
techniques which could kill or injure
ocean mammals. A

Second, require the executive branch
to take the necessary steps to help the
ﬁshing industry make the required ad-
justments to protect ocean mammals.

Third, call upon the President to pro—
hibit the importation of ﬁsh or ﬁsh
products which are taken by techniques

amendment and
' statement I submitted to the Subcom-

— CONGRESSIONAL RECORD —. SENATE

determined to be hazardous to ocean
mammals. ' ‘

Fourth, call upon the Secretary 'of'

State to enter immediately into nego-
tiatons for international arrangements
on this question. The ﬁrst step would be
to prepare a draft agenda on the pro-

tection of ocean mammals for the UN.»

Conference on the Human Environment,
scheduled for this June in Stockholm.

Mr. President, the ocean mammal
protection bill has won the attention of
a large segment of the American public.
What these people want is what I should
think we all would want: to put a stop
to the present killing of ocean mammals.
In this regard, I ask unanimous con-
sent, Mr. President, that a number of
articles be printed at this point in the
RECORD.

These articles point up the extent of
the devastation wrought by man and the
need to stop it right away. We are wit-
nessing the gradual disappearance of all
species of ocean mammals. If we fail to
act now, we will have no one but our-
selves to blame. The loss will be mani-
fold.

Mr. President, .I ask also that my
the accompanying

mittee on Oceans and Atmospheres be
printed in the RECORD.

There being no objection, the ma-
terial was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:

[From Sports Illustrated, Feb. 14, 1972]
SCORECARD
(Edited by Robert W. Creamer)
MARINE DEVASTATION

In “one area of the eastern Paciﬁc Ocean
in 1970 an estimated quarter of a million
dolphins died after being trapped in vast
nets set out by-commercial tuna ﬁshermen.
The ﬁshermen welcome the lively marine
mammals, which help drive the tun-a into
the nets. Too bad if a thousand or so are
killed when a huge net is hauled in, but
what are you gonna do? The slaughter is in-

. ciden-tal and almost casual. And it continues.

Legislation introduced in Congress to halt or
alter the practice is repeatedly undercut; the
tuna industry is a vigorous lobbyer.

But what a pointless and disgraceful waste
of a potentially invaluable animal. Dolphins
have repeatedly demonstrated that they have
exceptional intelligence, a natural friendli-
ness toward man and an amazing aptitude
for learning. Beyond their aid to man in ﬁsh-
ing, they have shown that they can be train-
ed for a variety of other uses and the US.
Department of Defense has made extensive
studies of the possibilities. The Soviet Union
places such a high value on them that it has
banned their killing or capture.

Killing them to catch tuna is as foolish as
‘cutting down apple trees to pick apples. As
Lewis Regenstein wrote in an illuminating
report on the problem in The Miami Herald,
“Because of the limitations of human intelli-
gence, man may never perceive the real na-
ture, the true significance, of these unique
(features that he is so needlessly destroy-

ng-n

[From Newsweek, Sept. 6, 1971]
PITY THE POOR PORPOISE.

Down through the centuries, man ,has
either erased or pushed to the brink of
extinction a number of species, notably the
passenger pigeon, whooping crane, blue whale
and the American bison. Now, in his quest
for the tasty yellowﬁn tuna, man is placing a
disastrously heavy strain on three different

February 22, 1.972 ;

species of small porpoises whose misfortune ,
it is to travel the ocean currents with the
big silvery ﬁsh. ‘
Every year, using modern nylon nets and
power winches, U.‘S. tuna ﬂeets operating out
of West Coast ports catch about 45,000 tons
of tuna. Unfortunately, they also inadver-

tently net large numbers of spinner, spotter

and white-belly porpoises along with the
tuna; as many as 250,000 of these highly. in-
telligent, legendarily entertaining mammals .
die in the process. Moreover, no one knows
just how many more porpoises drown in
the nets of French, Japanese, Spanish, Mex-
ican and Peruvian tuna boats plying other
waters, but the ﬁgure may well surpass that
of the US. kill. .
_ PONGO

Tuna fishermen discovered long ago that
porpoises and yellowﬁn tuna are inseparable
companions as they travel the oceans, per-
haps because they both feed on the same
types of small fish. Whenever a tuna boat
spots a pack of porpoises and tuna, it imme-
diately dispatches a crew on a “pongo”——a
16-foot fiber-glass craft propelled by a 105-
horsepower outboard motor. Like a sheepdog
turning in sheep, the fishermen use the pon-
go to drive the porpoises into a tight circle.
And wherever the porpoises go, the tuna are
sure to follow.

A second skiff, called a cork tender, follows _
the pongo and plays out the cork line that -
holds up the nylon net. Once the tuna boat
has its net (typically 70 fathoms deep and 2,-
400 feet long) around the fish, the crew
turns on a powerful winch and begins to pull
the enveloping string tight. And it is usually
at this point that the porpoises panic——
and. begin to die. ‘

ESCAPE

The tuna fishermen bear no malice toward
the porpoises and, in fact, many make a con-
siderable effort to save the creatures from
drowning inside the nets. It is not at all un-
usual for-fishermen to jump into the water
and help struggling porpoises to escape; Some
captains also execute a maneuver called
“backing down,” in which the tension on the
far end of the net is momentarily released,
allowing it to sink a few feet under the weight
of the trapped tuna. If the porpoises are at
the far .end of the net area, the dropped
barrier permits some of them to'escape. But
the melancholy fact is that no one has yet de—

veloped an acceptable way of separating the

mammals from the fish, once both are caught
up in the net.

Next week, a Congressional subcommittee
will conduct hearings on legislation designed
to protect ocean mammals, such as the three
species of porpoises. One proposed bill would
completely bar the killing of any and all sea
mammals. But another, to be introduced by
California Rep. Glenn M. Anderson, would
allow the killing of marine mammals “if the
harassment, hunting, capturing or killing is
incidental to commercial fishing operations.”
Interestingly enough, Anderson’s Congres-
sional district includes the port of Los An-
geles—uwher’e many tuna boats are based.

——

[From the Washington Post, April 8, 1971]
PET FOOD USE POSEs THREAT To PORPOISES
Los ANGELES, April 17 (UPI) .——-Porpoi”ses,

the good luck symbol of sailors for centuries,

may face extinction because they make good
dog food.

Kenneth Norris, professor of natural his-
tory at UCLA and director of the Oceanic In-
stitute at the Makapuu Ocean Center in Ha-
waii, said Fri-day that porpoises may be used
as a substitute for whale meat in cat and
dog foods.

“Until recently the United States was the
consumer of about a third of all whale prod-
ucts, mostly as pet food,” Norris said. “Now
that this has been banned .. . . I’m afraid
that the cat and dog food manufacturers’will

w

 




f
Mbrua’ry 22, 197?

turn to the porpoises as a substitute for the
whales.”

[From the New York Times, June 22, 1971]
EXTINCTION CALLED PERIL To PORPOISES

Los ANGELES, (AP) .-—The same threat of
extinction that faces the whales now also
endangers porpoises, says Kenneth Norris,
professor of natural history at the Univ-er-
sity of California at Los Angeles.

Professor Norris said Japanese ﬁshermen
were using huge nets to catch whole schools
of porpoises at once. He fears, too, that
American and other ﬁshermen may soon get
into the business of catching the sea mam-
mals.

“Until recently the United States was the.

consumer of about a third of all whale pro-d-
ucts, mostly as pet food,” he said. ”Now that
this has been banned in the US, I’m afraid
that the cat and dog food manufacturers will
turn to the porpoises as a substitute for the
whales.”

.Professor Norris, who is director of the
Oceanic Institute at. the Makapuu Ocean
Center in Hawaii as well, said there are about
70 species of the small-toothed whales that
are called porpoises. Some of them, the killer
and pilot whales, for example, are called
whales but are species of porpoises.

[From the New York Times, Monday, Nov. 8,
1971]

To KILL A COUSIN

Dolphins and porpoises are man’s ﬁrst
cousins in the animal kingdom. Like human
beings, they are warm-blooded and bear their
children one at a time. Highly intelligent and
capable of complex forms of communication,
they have been called “the intellectuals of
the sea.”

Inadvertently and carelessly, men are en-
gaged in the wholesale killing of these fas-
cinating mammalian cousins. Dolphins act
as skilled navigators for great schools of
tuna, hunting out the smaller ﬁsh upon
which both species feed. Fishermen have long
known that where dolphins were sighted tuna
were probably nearby. When long lines were
used“ to catch tuna, this presented no prob-
lem.

But a dozen years ago, the tuna industry
began the use of huge nylon nets, and this
marvel of efficiency spells death for the dol-
phins for they too are gathered up in the
net and apparently asphyxiated. An estimated
250,000 dolphins die each year in these traps.
Once abundant, they have become a species
endangered.

A House Merchant Marine and Fishery
Subcommittee is now drafting a bill to pro-
tect dolphins and other mammals, including
whales, otters, polar bears and sea lions. A
one—year deadline should be imposed to make
present industry practices illegal and a joint
government-industry research program un-
dertaken to devise tuna ﬁshing techniques
which will spare the dolphins. Man has eradi-
cated many other species but to kill his own
cousins only escalates ecological recklessness.

[From the Evening Star, Nov. 9, 1971]
THE ENDANGERED FRIEND

There is no animal on the face of the
earth—with the possible exception ‘of man
himself—that is more universally admired
by man than the dolphin. Dogs and cats have
their detractors; everybody loves a dolphin.

This affection is no recent phenomenon,
created by television or aquatic circuses.
Admiration for the animals can be found in
the writings'of Aesop, 600 years before the
birth of Christ. Oppian, writing in the 2nd
Century A.D., called the killing of dolphins
“an offense to the gods . . . as execrable as
the murder of a human.” For centuries, men
who traveled the oceans have known the
dolphin as a delightful companion who has
never used his formidable teeth against man,

~49 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD —— SENATE ‘

even in self-defense. Recent studies in .ani—
mal behavior and intelligence have done
nothing to dim man’s admiration. It is now
known that dolphins can communicate
verbally with one another and, to a more
limited degree, with man. Their intelligence

approaches that of man. Their cooperation,»

their willingness to learn, their gentleness
clearly exceed man’s.

Today the end of the long affectionate rela-
tionship between man and dolphin is in
sight. Today dblphins are being killed by
man at a rate that soon will push three spe-
cies of the ocean mammals to the edge of
extinction; the United States alone is re-
sponsible for the death of a quarter million
dolphins a year. No one hunts the creatures
fortheir ﬂesh or their oil or their hides. The
slaughter is the by-product of the yellow-
ﬁn tuna catch. The dolphins are threatened
with extinction because of their natural
affinity for the tuna and by a recent product
of man’s inventive genius, the purse seine.
This ingenious device can encircle an entire
school of tuna. It also fences in the schools
of dolphin thattravel with the ﬁsh. As the
seine draws tighter, the dolphins are caught,
held under water and drowned.

The House subcommittee on ﬁsheries and
wildlife is now considering legislation for the
protection of ocean mammals. We have pre-
viously stated our support for a controversial
law that would ban the importation of all
ocean mammal products into the United
States. But in the matter of the dolphins,
there should be no controversy. The slaughter
should be halted.

American technology, which produced the
purse seine, should be-called upon to devise
some means by which the dolphin can be
excluded from its dea’dly grasp. Meanwhile
Congress should encourage the tuna ﬁsher-
men in their affection for the dolphin by
setting forth—and enforcing—stiff ﬁnancial
penalties for the accidental killing of the
gentle creatures.

It’s the least we can do for a friend.

[From the Washington Post, Jan. 11, 1972]

ABUSED BY THE TUNA FISHING INDUSTRY . . .
DOLPHINS AND PORPOISES FACE THREAT 0F
EXTINCTION

(By Lewis Regenstein)

Dolphins and por-posises are among the
most intelligent and highly evolved of all
the world’s creatures. It is easy to see why
these friendly and fascinating animals have
captured the imagination and interest of a
large segment of the American public, for
they have become the subject of countless
movies, television programs, and children’s
stories, as well as the star attractions at
oceanariums. Unfortunately, they have also
become the major victims of a new type of
ﬁshing technology invented and utilized by
the US. tuna industry; and in recent years,
over a 'million dolphins have been killed by
US. tuna ﬁshermen. As a result, schools of
dolphins and porpoises are decreasing in
size and numbers'at an alarming rate; and
several species of these animals may shortly
be threatened with extinction.

There are about 80 different types of
dolphins and porpoises, and they belong to
the same biological family as the whales, the
mammal order cetacea. These animals ex-
hibit many equalities that we like to think of
as “human”: they are warm blooded, air-
breathing mammals which nurse their young
and usually bear a single calf every three to
four‘years. .

Man has traditionally enjoyed a friendly,
cooperative relationship with dolphins;
and in some areas. such symbolic arrange-
ments, celebrated in local folklore, still
exist. Some aboriginal "tribes living along
the coastlines of Australia, New Zealand,
and the Mediterranean have for generations
utilized the help of dolphins to drive ﬁsh

s 2209

into‘their nets. Naturalist Tom Garrett, a
wildlife consultant for Friends of .the Earth,
has described how tribes in the Amazon
basin cultivate the friendship of fresh water
dolphins to protect them against such dan-
gers as pirania ﬁsh.

. Some natives reportedly refuse to enter
the water without ﬁrst “calling” a friendly
dolphin by knocking on the side of the boat.
Moreover, the countless sea legends of dol-
phins saving the lives of drowning people
may have some scientiﬁc basis, since these
animals instinctively swim under their young
and buoy them up to the surface so that
they will not drown during their infancy.
period. ~

The ancient Greeks had a deep and fre-
quently awed appreciation for dolphins.
Aesop, writing some 600 years B.C., made fa-
vorable references to these animals; and
Oppian, in the second century A.D., called
the killing of dophins “an offense to the.
gods . . . as execrable as .the murder of a-
human.” Pliny the Elder has described how.
the Greeks used dolphins to lead them to
schools of ﬁsh and then shared their catch
with these friendly cetaceans. According to
him, the dolphins even waited in the area
until the following day, to be rewarded for
their efforts with bread dipped in wine.

Aristotle has written that “this creature
is remarkable for the strength of its parental
affection”; and females do indeed show great
concern for their young, nursing them until
they are about 18 months of age., This
mother-young relationship lasts for several
years, and dolphins 4 to 6 years old have
been known to seek out their mothers from
a group when they become tired, sleepy or
frightened. Adult dolphins also exhibit
strong protective traits towards one another;
and the killing or, capture of one sends a.
shockwave of trauma through the entire
herd.

Scientiﬁc studies of dolphins have con-
ﬁrmed their extraordinary intellectual capa-
bilities. The brain of the dolphin is- quite
convoluted, even more so thanthat of man.‘
Moreover, Colin Taylor of the Port Elizabeth.
South Africa, oceanarium has studied adult .
dolphins teaching their young and believes
that the infants learn close to 1,000 “words.”

The US. Department of Defense has also
made extensive studies of ~ dophin intelli-
gence, primarily for such things as locating
sunken ships and‘in anti-submarine warfare
projects. (Some dolphins even developed
ulcers from the strain of learning their mis-
sions!) In one such experiment, a female
dolphin, using its sonar system, has learned
to differentiate between copper and alumi-
num plate by echo ranging.

Interestingly, the Soviet Union not only
studies dolphins but has also banned the
killing or capture of these animals: the Min-
ister of Fisheries, Alexander Ishkov, calls
them “marine brother to man.” In urging
that worldwide protection be accorded these
creatures, Ishkov pointed out that “the teeth
of a dolphin could turn him into a dangerous
enemy. But, no dolphinhas ever attacked or
molested a man, even in self-defense.

Yet these fascinating creatures are rapidly
being wiped out, in large part by the Ameri- ’
can tuna ﬁshing industry. The ﬁshing prac-
tices in US. tuna ﬂeets are similar 'to that
of the ancient Greeks in that dolphins are
used to locate and follow schools of tuna.
However, after leading the ﬁshermen to the
tuna, the dolphins are entrapped in the tuna
nets and killed. In 1970, in one area of the ‘
Eastern Tropical Paciﬁc, between 250,000 and
400,000 dolphins are estimated to have per-
ished in the huge “purse-seine” tuna nets
which only recently came into widespread
.use. These nets sometimes entrap as many as
2,000 dolphins at a time along with the yel-,
lowﬁn tuna with which they are usually
found. After being netted, the dolphins usu- '
ally swim about wildly in a desperate effort

 




' s 2210

to escape. They then huddle together “sing-
ing” in one corner of the net; those that in-
stinctively “sound” ‘ or dive to the bottom
usually become ensnared in the meshing and
drown. Other dolphins become so frightened
that they go into a state of shock and also
drown. The rest make little attempt to jump
'out of the nets and escape, since they will
not, as a rule, abandon their infants or desert
‘ a fellow dolphin that seems to be injured or
in distress The majority of dolphins killed
in this manner have been females and in-
fants, primarily of the spiner (Stenella longi-
rostris), spotter (Stevella fraﬁmam’s), and
common dolphin (Delphinus delphis) species.

The result of these tuna ﬁshing operations
has been a serious reduction in the numbers
and composition of the dolphin schools, and
they are becoming much harder to approach
than in the past. Many scientists concerned
with this problem fear that the above types
of dolphin may soon face a very real danger
of extinction, particularly since Mexico,
France, Spain and ﬂeets operating under the
Panamanian ﬂags are increasingly turning to
purse- -seine technology. Moreover, with the
rapidly approaching extinction of the great
whales, dolphins and porpoises may well be-
come an economically feasible (albeit tempo-
rary) substitute source for the products of
_ the larger whales, particularly since they are
already being “harvested” in such’ extraor-
dinary numbers. The Japanese, for example,
have already established a dolphin “ﬁshery”
and in 1970 are estimated to have “taken
.. some 20,000 of these animals.

The powerful tuna industry has been vig-
'orously lobbying in Congress in an attempt
‘ to' exempt itself from pending legislation
which would protect ocean mammals. While
claiming (without convincing evidence) that
new nets and techniquesihave been devel-
Oped which will reduce dolphin mortality,
the industry has been successful in obtain-
ing legal permission to continue their waste-
ful ﬁshing methods. A marine mammal “pro-
' tection” bill, originally introduced by Rep.
Glenn Anderson (D-Cal), whose district in-
cludes the port of Los Angeles where most
. of the tuna boats are based, was reported
out of Rep. John Dingell’s Wildlife Conser-
vation Subcommittee in December, 1971. The
act contains provisions which give the Sec-
retary of Commerce broad discretion to al-
7_ _low the tuna industry to continue killing

dolphins including the use of “general” or
blanket permits which may be issued to the
ﬁshermen'for the “taking” of these animals.
Such language was reportedly insisted upon
by the Nixon Commerce administration, act-
ing through the Commerce Department and
the Republican members of the subcommit-
tee, whose senior member Rep. Thomas Pelly
(R Wash.) represents a district which in-
cludes the builders of the tuna ﬂeets as well
as many Commerce Department bureaucrats
based in Seattle.

Representative David Pryor (D-Ark.) and
other congressmen plan to offer strenthen—
ing amendments to this bill when it comes
up for a vote this month or next. However,
the Senate has not yet taken any action
on the ocean, mammal legislation pending
before it; and Senator Ernest Hollings (D.
8.0.) subcommittee of the Commerce Com-
mittee has so far refused to even schedule
hearings on" these bills. In the meantime,
several conservation groups are threatening
to launch a boycott of tuna products unless
the industry takes immediate steps to solve
the problem.

Because of the limitations of human in-
telligence, man may never perceive the real
nature, the true signiﬁcance, of these unique
creatures that he is so needlessly destroying.
A hint of this vast and untapped wealth of
knowledge is contained in the writings of a
Russian delphinologist, Professor Yablakov:

“Dolphin societies are extraordinarily com-
plex, and up to 10 generations coexist at one
time. Ifthat were the case with man, Leo-

CONGRESSIONAI. RECORD -—— SENATE

nardo Da Vinci, Faraday, and Einstein would
still be alive . . . Could not the dolphin’s
brain contain an amount of information,
comparable in volume to the thousands of
tons of books in our libraries?”

Dolphins play "an integral if little under-
stood role in the health and stability of the
oceans’ ecology—ecosystems that are fun-
damental to the survival of man’s own en-
vironment. If we allow shellﬁsh men to de—
stroy or alienate the dolphin before we have
had a chance to learn what it can teach us,
then we will compound the inherent evil of
human nature with-a foolishness which may,
in the end, hasten our own doom.

AMENDMENT No. 913

On page 3, after line 21, insert the fol-
lowing:

(c) (1) After the expiration of one year
beginning on the date of the enactment of
this Act, it shall be unlawful to use, onor in
connection with any commercial ﬁshing ves-
sel subject to the jurisdictions of the United
States, any means or methods of ﬁshing
whereby any ocean mammal could be injured
or killed in the course of or incidental to
commercial ﬁshing operations.

(2) The Secretary of Interior, after con-

sultation with the other Secretaries named
in section 206, shall issue regulations to ef-
fectuate the purposes of pargaraph (1) and
to reduce, and eventually eliminate, the in-
juring or killing of ocean mammals as a re-
sult of commercial ﬁshing operations. Such
regulations shall include prohibitions against
purseseine nets and other nets and ﬁshing
techniques which have been found to be
hazardous to ocean mammals.

(3) The Secretary of Interior .sh‘all assiét
the United States commercial ﬁshing indus-
try in changing over to safer ﬁshing tech-
niques. as required by this subsection (A) by
providing observers to the ﬂeet to monitor
and help suggest newer and safer nets and
techniques, (B) by making grants and/or
loans to United States ﬁshing companies to
help in this transition, and (C) by such
other ways and means as he determines
which will carry out the purposes of this sub-
section, but which will help the United
States commercial ﬁshing operations remain
competitive with foreign ﬁshing operations.

(4) The President shall prohibit the im-
portation into the United States of ﬁsh or
ﬁsh products if it is determined that in the
taking of such ﬁsh means or method of ﬁsh-

ing were used which have been found to be

hazardous to ocean mammals.

(5) The Secretary of State shall negotiate
immediately with all foreign governments
which are engaged in, or which have persons
or companies engaged in, commercial ﬁshing
operations which are endangering ocean
mammals for the purpose of entering into
multi-lateral treaties with these countries to'
ban the purseseine nets and any other nets,
techniques, .or devices found to be hazardous
to ocean mammals. The Secretary of State
shall prepare a draft agenda relating to this
matter for discussion and agreement at the
United Nations Conference on the Human
Environment in Stockholm, Sweden, June
1972.

PROTECTION OF MARINE MAMMALS
(Statement of Senator HUBERT H. HUMPHREY)
Mr. Chairman. It is indeed a pleasure to
present testimony before this distinguished

Committee on the matter before you today.
I commend you for holding these hearings

and for your attempt to ﬁnd the best way to,

protect what are probably the most intelli-
genit, friendly and highly-evolved of all ani-
mals, the mammals of the sea.

All species of ocean mammals—without
exception—are rapidly disappearing. Most are
very depleted or are near extinction; all are
experiencing slaughter and suffering at the
hands of man.

I am particularly alarmed that our State

 

 

 

.--I t 43,
_ February 2‘2, 19%

Department has for several years been ne-
gotiating in secret a convention to the Ant-
arctic treaty which would allow signatory
nations to kill 225 000 seals annually. This is
the last remaining relatively untouched area
in the world; it is, in the words of a New
New York Times editorial of 6 February 1972,
“a vast untouched observatory the world
cannot afford to lose, the one continent lesﬂt
where man can still walk unfeared by his
fellow creatures.”

Our own Government is thus acquiescing
in the ecological destruction of this pristine
area We have all been shocked by pictures
and accounts of baby seals being clubbed to
death.

Now that the seal herds of the Northern
Hemisphere are on the verge “of being wiped
out, it is inexcusable that we are cooperating
in the transfer of this slaughter to the
Soulthern Heminhere.

The American public has made clear its
feelings; it wants us to 'put a stop to the
present killing of ocean mammals that is
taking place, and prevent future slaughter
from commencing. I hope that in your de-
liberations over the next few weeks you will
report out a strong, tosugh bill Which will do
just that.

As a co-spIo-nsor of the Harris-Pryor Ocean.
Mammal Protection Act (S. 25-79, the amend-
ed verSion of S. 1315) , I‘urIge that favorable
consideration be given to this vital bill which
would be a major step forward in halting the
senseless killing of seals, whales, dolphins,
porpoises, sea otters, polar bears, and other
mammals of the sea.

This bill is co-sponsored by 26 Senators——
over the one quarter of the Senate-eand
about 100 members of the House. It has been
endorsed by all of the major newspapers in
the Washington, DC. area———The Post, The
Evening Star, and The Daily News—as well
as many others. nationwide including the
New York Times and the Louisville (Ken-
tucky) Courier-Journal. In hearings held in
September of last year before a subcomrriit-
tee of the House Merchant Marine and
Fisheries Committee, the Harris-Pryor (Bill
was strongly supported bv such prestigious
conservation, humane, and environmental
organization as The Fund for Animals,
Friends and the Earth, The Humane Society
of ‘ the United States, The Sierra Club,
Friends of Animals, The Committee for Hu-
mane Legislation, The National Parks and
Conservation Association, The World Fed-
eration for the Protection of Animals, The
International Fund for Animal Welfare, and
many other recognized and responsible
groups. Such eminent scientists as Oceano-
grapher Jacques Cousteau and authropolog-
ist Ashley Montagu have also come out in
favor of the bill. Congressman Edward Gar-
matz, Chairman of the Merchant Marine and
Fisheries Committee, stated at _his hearings
that, in his 25 years in Congress, he had
never before seen such public interest in an
issue. Other Congressmen and Senators re-
port that they have received literally tens of

‘thousands of letters in support of the Ocean

Mammal Protection Act,-with many stating
that the ﬂood of mail has been “un-
precedented.”

I realize that there are other worthy bills
under consideration by this subcommittee;
but I hope that the ﬁnal bill reported out
will—at a bare minimum—contain the fol-
lowing provisions: (1) A ban or moratorium
of at least ten years on the killing of ocean
mammals, except for treaty obligations and
non-wasteful native hunting; (2) A total
ban on the import into this country of all
ocean mammal products, thereby removing
much of the economic incentive for their
slaughter; (3) language instructing the Sec-
retary of State to negotiate with other coun-
tries treaties to protect marine mammals;
(4) The responsibility for protecting marine
mammals given to the Department ’of
Interior;

 




    
    
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
  
   
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
    
   
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   

 

.\.~‘,V an“, ‘ Anon,
. \

~"""’ M _—_v.-

. ~'-"'- \.~’*/F"

)

4 In the area of ocean mammal protection,

.1 there is one problem that is of such magni-
' tude and importance that it requires special

attention. This concerns the fact that liter-

, ally hundreds of thousands of dolphins are—
. being killed each year in the Huge nets that

have recently come into widespread use \by
the tuna industry. In 1970, in one area of

‘ the Eastern Paciﬁc, between 250,000 and 400,-

000 dolphins are estimated to have perished
in the huge “purse-seine” tuna nets. World-
wide, the annual mortality probably exceeds
a million. As a result of this new technology
employed by the tuna industry, several

V species of dolphins are rapidly approaching

extinction.

This tragedy is compounded by the fact ‘

that dolphins are justly noted for their
extraordinary intelligence, their love for each
other, and their seeming friendliness towards
man. Dolphins in captivity have been taught
'eXtremely complex tasks, and some have even
learned to mimic the human voice‘.

The legendary episodes of dolphins sav-
ing .the lives of drowning swimmers or sail-
ors may in fact have some'scientiﬁc- basis,
since these animals instinctively swim under
their young and buoy them to the surface so
that they will not drown during their in-
fance. The ancient Greeks had a deep appreci-
ation for dolphins; and after using them to
locate schools of ﬁsh, they would share their

' catch with these friendly and cooperative

cetaceans.
The scientiﬁc value of dolphins is inestim-

. able, and we have much to learn from these
fascinating creatures. The dolphins that are
frequently seen swimming just ahead of the

bow of a ship are actually “hitching a ride”

1 on the ship’ s forward compression wave,
much as a surfer’s board is carried along by _
'a wave. The brain of the dolphin is quite

convoluted, even more so than, that of man.
Studies of adult dolphins teaching their

1 young indicate that the infants learn close to

1,000 "words”. The US. Department of De-

. fense has made extensive studies of dolphin
behavior, and these have conﬁrmed their
C extraordinary intellectual capabilities. In one
C experiment, a female dolphin, using its sonar
system, has learned to differentiate between

copper and aluminum plate-s by echo ranging.
This .is the phenomenon by which dolphins
emit ultrasonic, high-pitched sounds for

. navigating under water and locating food.

By moving its head from side to side, it can
locate objects long distances away by means

' 1 of the returning “echo”. One dolphin used in

experiments by Navy would willingly allow
itself to have suction cups placed over its
eyes, after which it could still swim easily
about without bumping into obstacles. An-
other rtrained dolphin was used by the Naval
aquanauts, who spent several weeks at the
bottom -of the sea, -' to carry materials and

' supplies to and from the surface.

" Because of the limitations of human intel-
ligence, man may never perceive the real
nature, the true signiﬁcance, of these unique
creatures that he is so needlessly destroying.
But a hint of this vast and untapped wealth
of knowledge is contained in the writings [of
a Russian'delphinologist, Professor Yablakdv:

“Dolphin societies are extraordinarily com-

iplex, and up to ten generations coexist at

one time. If that were the case with man,
Leonardo Da Vinci, Faraday, and Einstein
would still be alive. . . . Could not the dol-
phin's brain contain an amount of informa-
tion comparable in volume to the thousands

'- of tons of books in our libraries?”

. Dolphins play an integral if little under-
stood role in the health and stability of the
oceans’ ecology—ecosystems that are funda-
mental to the survival of man’s own environ-
ment.

If we allow selﬁsh men to destroy or alien-
ate the dolphin before we have had a chance
to learn what it can teach us, then we will

\compound the inherent evil of human nature

 

with a foolishness which may, in the end‘ V

hasten Our ‘own doom. ' ' .
I am therefore offering an amendment to

s. 2579 Which is intended to speciﬁcally ad- - 1

dress and hopefully solve this problem. My

amendment would set stringent guidelines */
on the use of tuna nets that can be: uSed ande
provide strict prohibitions against the killing .

of dolphins after a reasonable period of tirne,

The cost of changing over to new nets and‘

ﬁshing methods and the funding forethe nec-

essary research wOuld be borne entirely by

the Federal Government so as not to cause

,any economic hardship for our tuna ﬁSher- "

men.
At the same time, in order that the U. S.

tuna ﬂeet not be put at a disadvantage with .

foreign competitors, imports of tuna from
countries which use destructive ﬁshing tech-
niques wOuld be banned.

My wendment also calls upon the State

Department to negotiate with other tuna ‘

ﬁshing nations a ban on the use of nets
which ' are injurious to dolphins. Further-
more, the U.S. delegation to the June. 1972
United Nations Conference on the Environ-
ment to be held in Stockholm would be in-
structed to seek an end to the killing of all
cetaceans—whales, dolphins, porpoises. Most

of the larger cetaceans are at or nearing ex-

tinctiOn; and it is no exaggeration to say
that this may be one of our last chances to
save these unique and extremely valuable
creatures.

It is imperative that we deal with the
dolphin problem in a meaningful way, par-
ticularly since the House Merchant Marine
and Fisheries Committee has reported out a
marine mammal bill which does not ade-
quately deal with this situation or provide
sufﬁcient protection to the dolphins. This
bill, H. R. 10420, contains a provision which
allows the Secretary of Commerce to issue

blanket (or “~general”) permits to the tuna

ﬁshermen forthe continued killing of unlim-
ited numbers of dolphins whichoccurs ‘V‘in-
cidental” to tuna netting operations. It is
therefore up to. the Senate '_to. correct the
shortcomings in this 'legislation and make
the ﬁnal bill agreed upon ‘by Congress an
effective one.

I realize that this committee is under

strong pressure to allow exemptions, how-
ever, there is no species 'of ocean mammal

that has captured the imagination and'in- '

terpst _ of the American public as has the
dolphin. It has become the subject of count-
less movies, television programs, and “Chi-l-
dr-’en 5 stories; the prime attraction at ocean-

ariums and even the symbol of a champion- .-
ship football team, the Miami dolphins; Edi-
torials in the New York Times, the Washing- ,

ton Post, the Washington Evening Star,.and
the Miami Herald have made maving and

' eloquent pleas that Congress save the dol-
phins from the massive slaughter they are'

now facing. I would like to enclose for the

record these and other articles as an indi-_,;,

cation of the extent of public concern with
this problem.
Gentlemen, .we can no longer plead in-

nocence. ReaSsuring language and lip serv-

vibe to the principles 'of conservation, will. no
longer sufﬁce. If we fail «in this endeavor to
stop the killing of the dolphins before it is

‘ too late to save them, we will have to answer

not only to our own constituents but future

generations as well. "\b

 

w ...
4 44..n ‘

 

 

 

 




JOHN L. MC CLELLAN, ARK., CHAIRMAN

HENRY M. JACKSON, WASH. KARL E. MUNDT. 5. BAR.
SAM J. ERVIN, JR.. N.C. JACOB K. JAVITS, N.Y.

EDMUND S. MUSKIE, MAINE CHARLES H. PERCY. ILL.
ABRAHAM RIBICOF’F, CONN. EDWARD J. GURNEY, FLA.

FRED R. HARRIS. OKLA. CHARLES Mc c. MATHIAS. JR.. MD. ,3 .
LEE METCALF', MONT. WILLIAM B. SAXBE. oHIo It“ i a ﬁt i 1% “at
JAMES B. ALLEN, ALA. WILLIAM v. ROTH, JR., DEL. 1 e C t 9% e e
HUBERT H. HUMPHREY. MINN. BILL BROOK. TENN.

COMM! I I EE ON

LAWTON CHILES. FLA.
GOVERNMENT OPERATIONS

JAMES R. CALLOWAY
CHIEF COUNSEL AND STAFF DIRECTOR WASHINGTON. [3.6. 20510

November 12, 1971

'e y or Anim rotectlv
P. O. BOX 3719
Georgetown Station
Washington, D. C. 20007

Dear MS. Stevens:

Thak yon forﬂyour recent letter letting me know of your support

And provide a criminal penalty for shooting

A ’ 04$

" .13)" .1;
911‘ s or lsh from an aircraft.

I appreciated hearing from you.

Sincerely,

Hube rt H. Hu‘mphre

 




 

  

3216 Coquelin :1e’uzace, Chevy Chase Wan/lam! 20015

June 28, 1965

 

Dear Mr. Mays,

Mrs. Humphrey has asked me to thank you for your
letter o.“f‘ 1“' “ ‘ ﬁj§f

    

 
  

    

x;

I

appreciate"”%$§~v : iﬁg t e time to inform he;
your position.

6‘“, “'7' '4! r; 1 'F
5’5““ "1"}?

Sincerely,

 

(Miss) Betty South
Press Secretary

H. S. Mays Family
1667 H Street
Napa, California

 

 




HUBERT H. HUMPHREY
MINNESOTA

Q'Cnifeb ﬁbfalez $21141“

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20510

Mrs. Edward J. Balduc
601 South Ninth Street
Virginia, Minnesota 55792

Dear Mrs. Balduc:

Thank you for your recent letter. It was good to hear
from you.

First of all, I want to assure you of my efforts here

in the Senate to makewwﬂ_w_,_ that the Laboratory Animal
5; “5gnavﬁrg' fﬁgefagg funding And secondly, I
‘agree that to insure ﬁﬂﬂong and effective enforcement
Of this ACt it ShOUld " , -, 4;:”‘LWQthLQQMQfe-«w
iffﬁwﬁepartment of Agricu,ture.’AA?XTVgﬁnﬂo.you my efforts
tIAWake certain that bOth these goals are realized.

:33? “L ’3‘ all“ £223" '

Thanks again for your letter.

Sincerely,

Hubert H. Humphr~

 




HUBERT H. HUMPHREY
MINNESOTA

Qlfnileb $faf¢z ,Smmafe

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20510

July 12, 1971

Mrs. Elizabeth F. Balduc
601 80. 9th St.
Virginia, Minnesota 55792

Dear Mrs. Balduc:

  
   

_pThank yeu5for sharing with me your thoughts concerning the

14M ,3; This legislation would% prohibit the taking of ocean

mam ls by U. S. citizens or vessels subject to U. S. jurisdiction,
and prohibit the import of ocean mammals, or any part or

product thereof, into this country. This ban on imports

would remove the economic incentive for much of the slaughter

by other nations, since many of the products of the ocean

mammals are designed for the American market.

The enactment of this legislation would remove the threat
of upsetting the balance of nature in our oceans and it would

halt the brutality inflicted upon these helpless animals
for unnecessary purposes.

Thanks again for your letter.

Sincerely,

    

Hubert H. Humphrey

 




HERMAN E. TALMADGE. GA., CHAIRMAN

ALLEN J. ELLENDER, LA. JACK MILLER, IOWA
JAMES 0. EASTLAND, MISS. GEORGE D. AIKEN, VT.

B. EVERETT JORDAN, N.C. MILTON R. YOUNG, N. DAK.
GEORGE MC GOVERN, S. DAK. CARL T. CURTIS, NEBR.

JAMES B. ALLEN, ALA. ROBERT DOLE, KANS. .45 o
2231222.?522’2‘EiYM'“ HENRY BELLMON, OKLA. _ JCWIIGB ﬁfaieﬁ ﬁenafe
COTYS M. MOUSER, CHIEF CLERK COMMITTEE ON
AGRICULTURE AND FORESTRY
WASHINGTON. D.C. 20510

August 8, 1972

Ms. Christine Stevens

Society for Animal Protective
Legislation

P. O. Box 2719

Georgetown Station

Washington, D. C. 20007

Dear Ms. Stevens:

My position on the Protection of Marine Mammals bill,
8.2871, has been to support the bill with the appropriate
modifications which, in my opinion, improved the bill.

I am confident that this legislation will be regarded

as a milestone in the protection of our environment and
in an increased appreciation of the role which mammals
have to play. At the same time, the bill takes account

of those groups who would otherwise be unfairly hurt

by unnecessarily strict controls.

There is more to be done, and I intend to work with members
of the Commerce Committee, and with outside groups, to

push for the kind of improvements we tried to achieve
in this year's legislation.

Best wishes.

Sincerely,

Hubert H. Humph ey

 




