 

 

 

 

Novemb «December, 1942 T HE Price 6d.

‘ ANIMALS
FRIEND

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

[F. W. Bond.
Lem—The King.

THE NATIONAL COUNCIL FOR ANIMALS’ WELFARE

32, QUEEN’S AVENUE, MUSWELL HILL, LONDON, N.Io.

S 1165012)!sz for One Y ear, post / ee, 3/6

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND is publisbed inonz‘bly by i‘be National Council for Animals’ Welfare
of Queen’s Lodge, 52, Queen’s Avenue, Muswell Hill, London, N .10, and all eoniinunioai‘ions
regarding ibe magazine sbould be addressed to lbe Editors.

Editors: YVONNE A. M. STOTT and J. LEONARD CATHER.

 

 

Vol. XLIX, Nov—Dec, 1942 NO, 1
C O N T E N T S . .
Page Page
NATIONAL COUNCIL FOR ANIMALS’ WEL- A FEW pOINTS ON THE VALUE OF THE
OFARE - B - - ~ 4 SALADiMEAL HABIT. jane Topping . 12
NLOOKER’ S NOTE— OOK . .
5 WHAT SHALL IT PROFIT A MAN? Yoonne
NATIONAL SOCIETY FOR THE ABOLITION
A. M. .9027 . . . . . I5
OF CRUEL SPORTS 6
PIT PONIES’ PROTECTION SOCIETY . 9 TION 0F CRUELTY T0 ANIMALS - - 15
ON PERSONAL OBSERVATION OF ANIMALS SCOTTISH SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION
AND BIRDS. Caiberine M. Clark . . IO OF VIVISECTION . . . . . 16

The Opinions expressed by Contributors to this Magazine
are their own and are not necessarily held by the Editors.

 

 

 

 

I’m Off to the Fair!
Are iYou Coming T00?

1:51st

,3 When? Friday and Saturday, December
4th and 5th.
5 Where? Caxton Hall, Westminster (off

Victoria Street).
What time? From 10.30 to dusk.

Why? To help the animals and buy my
Christmas presents.

 

Goods for stalls will be needed. We are allowed to sell articles for which coupons have to be
given so that woollen goods, clothing, etc., are not barred.

‘Ne shall be allowed this year to provide refreshments made from rationed gOOdS if these are sent
tO us as gifts. This is good news, but, Of course all depends on what is sent to us. If there is any-
thing you can spare we guarantee to make the best use of it in the cafeteria at the Fair.

There will be a goodly number Of societies taking part as before and we shall look forward to
seeing all our Old friends there. Please come and bring your friends to buy all their Christmas
presents. We hope to arrange ﬁlms as last year.

SUGGESTIONS.

For the Stalls. Woollen knitted goods, specially Children’s Wear, tablecloths, mats, teacloths,
household goods Of all kinds, underwear, handkerchiefs, sachets, beads, jewellery, fruit,vegetables,
home-made cakes, nut meats, Old clothes, books, shopping bags, identity and ration card
cases, etc., etc.

For the Tea-Room. (Specially required) tea, coffee, cakes, biscuits, butter, sugar, etc., etc.
Admission l/- both days. Children half-price.

If you cannot come will you send a Donation, please .9
EVERYTHING YOU SEND WILL HELP US TO HELP THE ANIMALS
Secretary, N.C...,AW 32, Queen’s Avenue, London, N.10

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

1V0 116mber’December, '1942

Notes and Comments
The Church and Animals.

A valued correspondent asks the National Council
for Animals’ Welfare to write to the Archbishop of
Canterbury to suggest the inclusion of prayers for
animals in the more informal forms of worship that
take place during war-time in cinemas, canteens and
other places. We would be very glad to approach the
Archbishop on this matter, but feel that this is a matter
for the members of the Church of England themselves
in the first place. If there is a general feeling among
the members of the laity that such prayers ought to be
included in the more informal prayer books suggested
for war-time use, the Bishops and Clergy should be
informed about it. After all, the Church Assembly is
. free to discuss any proposal concerning the Church of
' England within certain prescribed limits, and the
Assembly was constituted in 1920 “ to deliberate on all
matters concerning the Church . . . and to make pro—
vision in respect thereof.” We learn that the Assembly
consists of three Houses, composed of Bishops, Clergy
and Laity, respectively. Letters may be sent. to the
Secretaries, The Church Assembly, Westminster,
S.W.I.

Donald Duck Goes Hunting.

Last month we mentioned Walt Disney’s full-length
ﬁlm, “ Bambi,” which we think all should see. Those
who have seen “ Polar Trappers,” showing Donald
Duck and his dog friend on a hunting expedition in
polar regions, will also want everybody to see it.
Donald in the wild wastes is fed-up with adiet of beans
and his carnivorous eyes transform a row of penguins
into something like roasted fowl. He tries to entice the
penguins to follow him as a ﬂute-playing Pied Piper,
but they elude his designs. In his anger at the young
penguin who gets under his feet, he kicks it as if it
were a football. A tear from the young penguin falls
on the hillside snow and rolls away, gathering into a
larger and larger snowball which races down after
Donald and the dog and ﬁnally bounces on top of their
hut, which is smashed to smithereens. Donald is last
seen holding a tin of beans in his beak. Since Donald
may be taken to symbolise an aspect of human nature,
the cartoon “ tells a tale ”—-a salutary one from our
point of view!

The Radio Doctor.

Most people probably like the useful talks by the
Radio Doctor on the Kitchen Front. He is an ally of
the vegetarian and the food reformer—to a large
extent. It is a pity that he has to cut out humane
sentiment even to the length of telling parents not to
allow their children to get too fond of their rabbits in
the back garden. He confessed in a recent talk that his
children would not have touched “ Belinda ”—
presumably their own rabbit—with a barge pole if they
knew it was being served up to them.

“ The Four Freedoms.”

A rather cynical correspondent writes : “ Anent the
famous ‘ four freedoms ’ mentioned in the Atlantic
Charter, will you let me ask if ‘ freedom from want ’ is
going to mean an increase in world’s facilities for the
slaughter of animals for food? Is ‘ freedom from fear ’
to be maintained by inﬂicting fear and horror upon
sentient and sensitive creatures in order to satisfy
human cravings for pleasure and adornment? Is our

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

‘ freedom of speech ’ to be guaranteed while those who
cannot speak for themselves suffer torment and ex—
ploitation? And is ‘ freedom of worship ’ to be
accompanied by that utter irreverence which allows
the weak to be sacriﬁced for the sake of the strong? ”

The Archbishop’s « Broken Fellowship.”

In his great speech at the Albert Hall the Archbishop
of Canterbury referred to the “ broken fellowship ” of
human society due to economic status and priVilege.
It will be a great day when an eminent churchman will
call attention to the violently disrupted kinship of the
larger society of men and animals. To paraphrase
Edward Carpenter, the poet : “ We cannot violate the
laws of kinship for long.” Such violations are surely
among the hidden causes of war and other evils which
beset men and nations?

Birds Singing With Mouth Full.
Mr. Barlow, the kind friend who gives so many of .
his drawings to THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND, says : “ I have
not observed a wild bird sing with something in his
mouth. But I see no reason to doubt it. After all,
singing is but the birds’ way of conversing and humans
talk with their mouths full, and to a lesser extent
animals do. A bitch warning pups off can emit a
variety of long sustained and terrific sounds with a
mouth crammed full of food. I have often observed a
chick cheep or “ sing ” while eating. I have seen a
chick swallowing a huge worm (on the two steps for—
ward one step backwards principle) and happily
cheeping all the time. I have repeatedly noticed a
domestic cock hold some titbit in his beak and at the
same time call to his favourite hens to come for it.”

And Miss A. Montgomery, of Tavistock, writes I
“ Singing with Mouth Full.”

“ DEAR SIR,—-—A pair of blackbirds have reared three
broods in our garden this year. Both parents very tame
-—the cock bird constantly sang with worms, or grubs, _
etc., in his beak, directly young were hatched, and '
continued to do so, with each brood—always when
approaching the nest.

“ He could scold loudly with his beak full, just as
c onveniently l

 

Great Tit.

 

 

. i - w
. . “a th;-'.I“.hm"
a...

 




THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND November/December. I 942

National. Council for Animals9 Welfare

THE ANIMALS, FRIEND

A 'Note by our Chairman.

We much regret that, owing to circumstances connected with the war, we shall be obliged
to publish THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND until further notice as a bi-monthly and also reduce its pages
by four. We trust that our readers will continue their kind and loyal support and help us to
keep the magazine going as a ﬁghting friend of the animals despite mounting costs. On our
part we shall be as economical as we can without, we hope, sacriﬁcing quality and interest. It
is our desire to make the magazine as worthy of our cause as it always has been in the past, and
even to make it, if we can, a more vigorous and forceful champion of the principles and ideals

 

 

for which it stands.

Our National Lecturer’s

N the Isle of Wight 43 talks were given
Iduring October and were greatly appreci—

ated. I found a great response from children
aﬂd teachers, especially in the districts where
the Week had been observed. In one Senior
Boys’ School where the atmosphere was alive
with response and interest the Head Master
put it down to the work done by our Society
for A.W.W., the ﬁlms, poster and essay
competitions and lectures. Many of the schools
are still greatly interested in posters and essays
and one or two of the schools have the posters
exhibited on the walls, and several proudly
produced the posters that had been done by
their schools. A Ryde Headmaster assured
me the children were much kinder to animals
in their district than before this work was
started in the Island. The first effort at
organising the Week was done through the
co—operation of Mrs. Herbert Whyte.

A lecture was given at the Brighton Theo—
sophical Society which aroused quite a lot of
discussion.

The talks at Kendal Schools are undoubtedly
a great success. I get a warm welcome and a
still warmer send—off. One school to—day had
listened for an hour and taken part in asking
and answering questions. At 4 pm. I told
them we must stop. There was a general
chorus of “ Oh, No! ” They did not want to
go home so we all stayed, teachers included,
another quarter of an hour. These talks in
which every school in the town has voluntarily
asked for a lecture has been organised by the
local Hon. Secretary of the R.S.P.C.A. with

D. JEFFREY WILLIAMS.

Tours ’

the consent of the local Education Committee.

It was interesting to hear from one of the
Head Teachers in Westmorland that Mr.
Trevelyan, Director of Education for West—
morland, at a recent meeting of teachers read
extracts of a report I sent him as a result of my
spring tour in the county, and said that he
considered this very valuable work and hoped
that every Head Teacher would welcome me
in his or her school during my next visit.

A very successful series of talks have been
given for the ﬁrst time in the Carlisle Schools,
thanks to the kindly help of the Director of
Education of the Borough.

For the ﬁrst time the N.C.A.W. has been
successful in getting into the Carlisle Schools
through the Director of Education for the
Borough. Mr. Alfred Brisco, Secretary of the
National Equine Defence League, will be
responsible for my expenses whilst in Carlisle.
This should be a great help to the N.C.A.W.,
and the gesture is made because of the splendid
results of this year’s lecturing in swelling the
ranks of the Animal Guardians—an organisa-
tion of young people under 16 years of age.

Cockermouth, Endmoor, Stavéley, Amble—
side, Kentmere, Carlisle, Tyneside (which
includes Hebburn, Jarrow, South Shields and
Wallsend) and several schools in Lancashire
are all waiting to be visited before Christmas.
It looks like a busy time ahead, but the results
are well worth the time and money expended.

Who will help the N.C.A.W. to push forward
this valuable educational effort ?

A. DOROTHY BARRS.

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

No uemher’Decemher, 1942

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

From Onlooker’s Note Book

Summer is gone on swallow’s wings,
And Earth has huried all her flowers :
l\To more the lane, the linnet sings,
_ But Silenee sits in faded howers.
Departure of Summer.
THOMAS HOOD (1798—1845).

For the sake of the Angels who sang on high
Let not the hirds lac/é food and die.
For the sake of the Ox and Ass in stall
Haoe mere} upon dumh ereatures all.
Christmas. TERESA HOOLEY.

Abel Janzoon Tasman (1603-1689).
Discovered Tasmania November 24th,
1639.

E: Dingwall, in her book Things New and Old,
informs 'us how “ the greatest of Dutch navi-
gators, Abel Janzoon Tasman,” after many
vicissitudes, discovered Van Dieman’s Land—
for such was the original name of the island
that is now known as Tasmania.

In 1880 stamps of various values and in
varied colours were issued depicting an animal
peculiar to Tasmania and the southern and
eastern parts of Australia, which is known as
the Duck—billed Platypus or Duck—mole (platy—
pus anatinus). The platypus is aquatic in its
habits, passing most of its time in the water or
close to the margin of lakes and streams,
swimming and diving with the greatest ease,
and forming for the purpose of sleeping and
breeding deep burrows in the banks, the ﬂoors
of which are lined with dried grass and leaves,
and in which the eggs are_laid and the young
brought up. When asleep the platypus rolls
itself into a ball.

Mary, Queen of Scots, born December 8th,
I 42.

5Mary was beheaded in 1587 at Fotheringay
Castle on the charge of conspiring against the
life of Queen Elizabeth, after being a prisoner
in England for nineteen years. It is recorded
how her faithful little dog crept unnoticed to
the scaffold and would not leave its beautiful
mistress even after her death.

Ernest C. Clifford, died December 31st,
1941.

Here are a few lines from The Croydon
Adoertiser of January 9th, 1942 :—

“ As a staunch vegetarian since he was seventeen,
a member of animal welfare societies, The United

Humanitarian League and an Anti-Vivisection
Society be upheld his belief in kindness to the helpless
animals who rely on man for their happiness.”

Sanctuary for All.

The Animals’ Guardian of May, 1909, con-
tained these words by Sidney Trist regarding
the great eye—specialist—Charles Bell Taylor :—

“ Nothing that had life ever sought sanctuary in
vain on his property, and such was the effect of his
inﬂuence that all his servants and other employees
became affected with his spirit, and creatures of all
kinds were always regarded as having to be un-
molested or specially protected.”

151 Years Ago.
From The Ohseroer, December 18th, 1791.

“ A lighthouse of a very singular construction is
shortly to be erected upon the rock called the Wolf,
on the Cornwall coast; it is to be in the ﬁgure of a
wolf, 9 ft. high, placed on its back, and the four feet
extended, in each of which there is to be a patent
lamp with double reﬂectors.”

Excerpt from “ The Times Literary Supple-
ment,” February 21st, 1942.

“ In his last book of Traoe/s Cherry Kearton insists
that Nature is much more informative when ap—
proached—as by himself—with a camera instead of a
gun, and his photographs—*which do great credit to
his capacity as a stalker~—are conﬁrmation. He is
equally successful with expression in his human
beings—especially native children and with the
attitude which corresponds to it in animals. Both
call for admiration in a close—up of a lion.”

 

The Eagle.

“ He elasps the erag with hooked hands :
, Close to the sun in lonely lands,
Ringed with the azure world, he stands.

The wrinkled sea heneath him erawls ;
He watehes from his mountain walls,

And like a thunderholt he falls.”
ALFRED, LORD TENNYSON (1809—92).

Thoughts for the Month.

May the Animals’ Fair hasten the time when
fair treatment of animals will be a reality.

The season of good—will towards men must
also include “ our younger brothers ”—that
is, Animals other than Man, or it is a hollow
mockery.

ONLOOKER.

 




 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

No vembeerecember, 1942

National Society for AtheAbolition of Cruel Sports

Hon. Secretary: BERTP.A1\-i LLOYD, c/o 255, Cowley Road, OXfOrd.

Fox-hunting in 1942-43.

The thanks of all opponents of blood sports
are once again due to Mr. W. Leach, M.P., for
~his action in giving publicity in the. House of
Commons to certain facts in connection with
fox—hunting. Mr. Leach recently drew the
attention of the Minister of Agriculture to the
_ 5 I5 hunts who have declared their intention to
2' carry on during the coming season with no
reports in the press.» He also pointed out that
an estate owner in the Whitby area has declared
that foxes on his land must not be put down as
he proposes to keep them for hunting ; that
farmers in that area complain of loss of poultry
and interference With lambing; that hunting
destroys crops and terriﬁes farm animals. The
« Minister’s reply to his request that steps should
be taken to prohibit such injury to the nation’s
food supply was that no complaints had been
received from farmers.

The 15 hunts referred to by Mr. Leach are
’ the Buccleuch, Cleveland, Cotswold, Crawley
and Horsham, South Devon, Four Burrow,
Middleton, Moanuth, Portman, Puckeridge,
Silverton, \West Somerset, Stainton—dale, East
Sussex and Woodland Pytchley.

1” Who Owns Our Wild Fauna?

Public opinion‘was recently strongly roused
. in Dublin by the action of the Commissioners
of Works in selling the deer in Phoenix Park
(a herd of about 800) to a contractor for
slaughter and export to England. Although
the affairs of Eire are not within the scope of
the activities of this Society, We cannot but
applaud the sentiments expressed in an editorial
in T/ee Cor/e Examiner (September 7th, 1942).
The writer points out that Phoenix Park was
intended by the original donor primarily as a
gift to the citizens of Dublin and for the Irish
people, and that whatever damage the deer
may have been guilty of—and this was ap—
parently negligible—~they are the property of
the public and not of the Commissioners of
Public \Vorks,.who should realise that the sole
reason for their existence is to give the public
' what the public wants. At least two promin—
ent citizens offered to take part of the herd but
the Commissioners refused to consider the
proposal. ‘

This episode reminds us of the attitude of
the National Trust, who, though acting as
custodians of land given to the nation, refused
some while ago to listen to the Society’s
reasoned protests on this score, and presumably
still permit killing for sport to take place on
lands whose wild life is as much the property
of the public as the earth which forms their
native haunt. Except in the special instances
where the donor expressly states that hunting
or shooting (as is the case with deer-hunting
on Exmoor) are to continue we see no reason
why privileged individuals should be given
the right to slaughter creatures which form
part of the national heritage. It is hoped that
after the war public opinion will induce the
National Trust to withdraw all sporting rights
on lands under their control. ‘

Deer Hampering Food Production

On the other hand, New Forest Farmers
have been pleading for the destruction of deer.
A smallholder recently complained before the
Ancient Court of Verderers at Lyndhurst that
deer are hampering food production, claiming
that under the goo—year—old Deer Removal
Act the animals have no right to the open
forest. He asked that they should be shot, as
they had caused £40 worth of damage to his
pasture. The deputy surveyor said that deer
had been destroyed at a rate of 200 a year for
the last five years in the Lyndhurst area, but
that similar action had not been taken in
neighbouring districts. It was hoped to start
a real campaign against the animals this autumn
after a meeting with the Pest Officers of
Hampshire, Wiltshire and Dorset.

Badgers in Ulster

From Northern Ireland comes the welcome
news that steps are now being taken in Ulster
to protect badgers. The press reports that
Lord Claremont, former Minister of Education
in Northern Ireland recently expressed his,
opinion that “ Badgers are often blamed for
the depredations of foxes. I don’t think they
do any great damage among poultry. They
are most useful in keeping down rabbits,
Which are a pest in many places and cause a lot
of damage to crops.”

(Conlz'nned on page 8.)

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

Novmber’Decanbw‘, 1942

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

Confessions of An Animal-Lover

By GEOFFREY H. BOWKER.

 

Our Parrot.

F anyone a couple of years ago had asked

me whether I would like a parrot for a pet,

my Certainly not! would have been instan—
taneous and emphatic. Well, as poor Ophelia
sagely remarked, “ we know what we are,
but know not what we may be.” .When I
have ﬁnished this article and am starting for a
stroll, it is morally certain that a bird of the
parrot breed will detect my footsteps and
scream to me to come into the kitchen and
make a fuss of him.

:i: a: at:

George 1s the property of my landlady’s son,
and has been consigned to, her care whilst his
lawful owner is away on war work. He could
not have a kinder temporary mistress who—-
against all her instincts—allows him to be
rowdy and untidy and destructive to his
heart’s content. She even tolerates with
amazing stoicism the fact that, given half a
chance, he will bite her ﬁnger to the very bone
when she is feeding him or cleaning out
his cage.

This vicious propensity of our parrot will
suggest to the reader that he must be pretty
tough. Actually his cruelty to humans is
entirely conﬁned to the feminine sex. Not
knowing this, I approached him warily at ﬁrst,
massaging his head with the butt of my
fountain-pen. He soon accepted my finger
instead, and within a week of our introduction
had condescended to step—with great dignity
——through the door of his cage and perch
upon my band. From thence he presently
evinced a desire to clamber up my sleeve and
settle comfortably on my shoulder. (A mark
of complete conﬁdence which is no doubt

ﬂattering, but which one would appreciate ,

more if he was reliably “ house trained ” 1)
He also appears to enjoy being enclosed by
my hands and waved about in the air—~—prefer-
ably upside down. As for biting me, this is
understood between us as unthinkable in any
circumstances—even when I clip his over-
grown claws. However, the beak is an
essential means to expression by the feathered
race, and George employs his, not only to
work off his misogynist mania, but to bestow
ever so gentle pecks on the men he loves.
The lobes of my ears seemingly have a special

attraction. But he never hurts in the slightest,

and it is remarkable that instinctively he

avoids, not only my eyes but the frames of my

glasses—the latter precisely the sort of object

he would in an ordinary way glory in snapping

into small pieces.
* * 3‘

In talking about a parrot one naturally refers
to the creature’s own ability in that respect.
Our George has a fairly extensive repertoire
and his enunciation is wonderfully accurate,
ranging from BBC. English undeﬁled to the
East-End patois of‘ a coal—heaver in whose
house he once spent a few weeks. Occasion-
ally he utters startlingly pertinent, but more
often hopelessly inappropriate phrases. To
the latter category I reluctantly relegate his
frequent greeting of myself with “ Hello
Beautiful!” though it must be remembered
that beauty is in the eye of the beholder.

Incidentally, he confirms the fallacy of the
wishful—thinking belief that caged birds sing
because they are happy. When George is in a
state of complete contentment——which, in the
absence of his real owner, means when he is
perched on my shoulder—he either keeps
quite silent, or utters a soft, sighing coo
probably designed by nature for the ears of his
lady-love in the jungle nest.

5!: =i¢ :8

Despite his Hunnish war on women, George
in reality is the biggest coward in creation.
Anything new or strange scares him : a sharp
rap on the front door of the house will knock
him right off his perch, and even of myself he is
momentarily distrustful if I approach him
wearing my other suit of clothes.

In warm weather I have sometimes taken
him for a ride in the garden. He loves it—
until a sudden ﬂutter of leaves or the appear-
ance of a neighbour’s head above the party
hedge causes him to panic. Twice in such a
situation he has escaped my grasp and ﬂuttered
away into the adjoining garden, where there
is both a dog and a definitely predatory cat,
and I have had to rush round at the risk of
heart failure to rescue a trembling and
thoroughly cowed bird.

:1: 3: =1:

George’s proprietor has been'able to retain

 




 

 

THE ANIMALS" FRIEND

with him whilst away a seCond domestic com-
panion—a perfectly delightful dog of the
retriever persuasion named Ken. I am told
that at home in pre—war days the furred and
the feathered pet were the best of friends. It
appears that George was accustomed to ride
on Ken’s back, and they have been seen
engaged in a merry tug—of—war over an old
hat—in which presumably the immensely
larger and stronger of the two contestants
only pretended to pull hard.

When this world tragedy is mercifully con-
cluded, I hope that, among other good things,
there will be a happy reunion of master and
hound and bird. I shall be glad in a way to
have no further moral responsibility for the
welfare of the last—named. And yet I know
that the parting will be a nasty wrench, and
shall want to go round and see George
sometimes. . .

But parrots live long. Strange to reflect
that in the normal course of nature the day
will come when I shall be unable to go and see
him—and that perhaps decades hence George
will lze uttering his “ Hello Beautiful! ” in a
world where the present. recipient of that
greeting is “ a handful of grey ashes, long,
long ago at rest.”

\W ell, may it prove to be a veritable “ brave
new world ” both for mankind and for every
living thing—including parrots!

(Next month : “ Lecturing for the Animals”)

 

(Continued from page 6.)

In this country also a more friendly attitude
towards badgers appears to be gaining ground.
The Minister of Agriculture has brought to
the notice of Pests Ofﬁcers the undesirability
of the indiscriminate destruction of badgers,
as they do more good than harm.

 

Since the above was written we have re—
ceived accounts in the Press of Summonses
issued in connection with the shooting of the
deer in Phoenix Park, from which the following
quotations are taken :—

Mr. Roe said that the summonses arose
out of thinning the deer herd in the Park.
The method of collecting them was shock—
ing, stupid and cruel. A corral had been
erected in the Park into which was driven
250 deer and they were left overnight. The
herd had become frightened and had started
to mill around, thereby injuring themselves.

November’Decemben 1942

The morning after this performance some
of the deer fortunately escaped, and the
physical injuries that had been caused were
that one had been gored and had sustained
a hole in her side, and two others had had
a leg broken. ‘

This method of thinning deer was stupid
and hitherto unheard of. The correct method
was that expert shots should be sent in
amongst the herd.

The way in which Mr. Ahern and those
under him proceeded to slaughter them was
this: The animals were lined up against
the wall, and on the morning of September 4
Mr. Ahern brought two men to 'shoot the
deer. The bucks stood head and shoulders
above the does and fawns, and it was, there—
fore decided to carry out the execution by
shooting the bucks.

He was entitled to complain of un-
necessary cruelty when it attached to the
slaughtering of wild animals by shooting
several bucks amongst a herd of 250 deer
and allowing them to fall dead and lie
amongst the others. The two men he had
mentioned were undoubtedly good shots,
but in the evening another gentleman was
brought in as a “ shot.” His performance
was appallingly bad—it was so bad that one
of the others called on Mr. Ahern and asked
him to call this man off. Eight deer were
killed with three shots each, instead of
killing them with a single shot as should
be done.

Dead Fawn.

John Flanagan, N.S.P.C.A. Inspector, in
evidence, said he saw one fawn lying on the
ground outside the corral. It was dead
and there was a hole in its side into which
witness put his finger. In witness’s opinion
this hole had been caused by the horn of a
deer. Witness also saw another fawn with
its leg broken. He got one of Mr. Ahern’s
men to shoot it and to shoot another fawn
which was in the same condition.

We are strongly reminded of accounts of
the rounding up and shooting of human
beings en masse in occupied countries. Shall
humanity escape cruelty while it inﬂicts it on
such helpless creatures as the deer? One
cannot help thinking of the words the Prime
Minister used at the Lord Mayor’s luncheon
recently: “Justice grimly reclaiming her
rights.”——EDIT0R.

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

NovembaraDecamber, 1942

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

Pit Ponies’ Protection Society

Secretary: JEFFREY WILLIAMS, 69, Carlton Hill, London, N.W.8.

able to undertake a rather extensive

advertising campaign in our national
daily and local weekly newspapers. Small
advertisements were put in the “ Personal”
column of Tne Tunes, the Obrennen, New Staten,
Inan, Spectator, 50 local weekly papers by
arrangement with one agency and 100 local
papers through the help of another. The
London and Provincial Advertising Agency
also placed a small advertisement twice in 24
national daily newspapers for which they are
the accredited agents in this matter. These
advertisements in the main ran as follows :—

DURING recent months we have been

32,000 Pit Ponies still used in mines; patient,
, uncomplaining war-workers. More willing ponies
often work two shifts daily. No legal limit to ponies’
working hours. Support the Pit Ponies’ Protection
Society, 69, Carlton Hill, London, N.W.8.

In addition, we have had a few display
advertisements in some daily newspapers
circulating in the Durham and South Wales
coalﬁelds. These were much on the same lines,
but carried a further sentence to say that
“ Government control of the mines should
mean one shift day for ponies as for miners.”

Our chief purpose, of course, was to try to
keep the question of pit ponies and their
working hours before the public and those
responsible for and connected with the mines.
A secondary purpose was to make an appeal
for funds. In both objects we think we can
claim to have had a reasonable measure of
success. This kind of publicity in these days
of paper shortage is extremely useful and
bEcause newspapers are smaller and much
more restricted in space, advertisements neces—
sarily have a much greater value.

‘

A Comparison.

One of our advertisements had a special
purpose. ‘By means of two groups of ﬁgures
we ventured to draw attention to the large
preponderance of ponies in the Durham and
Northumberland coalﬁelds. The following
tables give the two groups of ﬁgures :--—

9

N o. of Ponies. Annual Output.

Durham . . .. I0,4000 . 31,400,000 tons
South Yorkshire . . . 2,000 30,500,000 ,,
Scotland . . . ... 760 30,200,000 ,,
Northumberland ... 3, I 70 I 5, 3 00,000 tons
Nottinghamshire ... 1,260 I 5,400,000 ,,
Lancashire . . . I 40 I 4, 200,000 ,,

Naturally, this kind of advertisement is not
altogether popular in the areas where a
large number of ponies are used below ground.

The astonishing differences are not readily
explained. It is true that mechanical conveyors
carry 58 per cent. of the output in Scotland
as compared with 25 per cent. in Durham and
62 per cent. in South Yorkshire, and these
ﬁgures suggest that the use of conveyors alone
is not the only explanation.

In South Wales 7,400 horses are used below
ground for an annual output of 55,000,000
tons, and 45 per cent. of the output is carried
by conveyors.

The Government looks to greater mechani—
sation of the mines in order to increase the out-
put of urgently—needed coal. We were
interested to read in the Mann/Jamar Guardian,
October 12th, 1942, that Mr. Gordon
Macdonald (North—west Regional Controller
of Fuel and Power) had appointed a “ mechani—
sation OHICCIZ ” for the mines of Lancashire and
Cheshire in order “ to see how far mechanica—
tion could be improved in the region.” Mr.
Gordon Macdonald pointed out, however,
that it was not easy to carry mechanisation
much farther in some parts of Lancashire and
Cheshire, and added that, according to a recent
report, it had already been carried out in the
two counties to the extent of 91 per cent.
Nottinghamshire, which is also mentioned in
the second of the above tables, achieved
mechanisation before this war to the extent of
82 per cent. It seems possible that a few mines
in Nottinghamshire use a proportionately
large number of ponies.

These ﬁgures do seem to indicate that there
is some ground for hoping that some progress
is being made in certain districts. In other
areas, however, it would seem that progress is
very slow indeed.

D. J. w.

::.:.:;~_.: ..s:3§w :5; f-"" , "

 




Photo by)

 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

No umbeerecember, [942’

011 Personal Observation of Animals and Birds

By CATHERINE M. CLARK.

 

(C. M. Clark.

‘ Seeing is Believing.
HE hedgehog is one of our most perse—
cuted animals ; yet if he has habits which
in some circumstances interfere with
man’s activities, equally in others he has
Virtues which make him welcome—he is
notably an asset on cultivated land.

With regard to our treatment of animals such
as this, Mr. H. Mortimer Batten suggests an
attitude of mind towards them which cannot
be improved upon : if adopted by all it would
beneﬁt both man and other living creatures
immeasurably. He says : “ A safe rule to
stick to is to ask oneself the question, ‘ Does
this beast do ME any harm? Have I any quarrel
with him? If not, I will leave him alone. If,
on the other hand, I know nothing about him,
I will let him go his way undisturbed. Or
again, if I think him to be guilty I will just
make sure, for, in any case, he has his enemies,
and I will not join them till I have good
cause.’ ”

What hosts of animals and birds have been
persecuted by people who are quite ignorant
of their habits, for crimes which they could
not possibly commit owing to their physical
structure. The hedgehog, for example, was
believed to make serious inroads upon the
farmer’s milk supply by stealing the milk while
the cow lay chewing her cud by night. The
nightjar, too, was charged with a similar offence
and was christened “ goatsucker ” in conse—
quence. But apart from the physical impossi—

10

bility of such an achievement, we have only
to think of the capacity of a hedgehog or a
nightja‘r to see the absurdity of attributing any
noticeable loss of milk. to such tiny creatures.

We may laugh at such fancies and imagine
that we live in more enlightened times—and so
we do to some extent—but there are still many
accepted beliefs and traditions which are
handed down by one generation to another
without a thought of questioning their veracity.
Another of the hedgehog’s supposed crimes
was egg—stealing and I have a notion that many
gamekeepers and countrymen generally believe
this to-day. I will quote from The Mamma/r
of Great Britain and Ireland, by J. G. Millais.
“ Hedgehogs eat raw meat voraciously, and
would unquestionably kill chicks in a coop.
But they destroy vast numbers of insects,
especially grubs among the roots of grass;
and the common accusation that they suck eggs A
is erroneous, for they cannot crack them.
A rat chisels through an eggshell with his
lower incisor teeth. A hedgehog can only
crunch, and the gape of his jaws will not admit
an egg as large as a sparrow’s. I once shut up
an unhappy hedgehog for three days with no
water or food except a raw egg. It made no
attempt to open it.” ‘

 

Hedge/70g? Breediﬂg Nest.

 




-i ,‘ 1? ‘x:

November’December, I942

The hedgehog is often discovered in his
winter nest, hibernating under a pile of dead
leaves; but only seldom is the female’s breed—

ing nest found.‘ My photograph shows one .

which came to light in an old Rectory garden
in the spring when the gardener was clearing
away winter debris. It was ﬁrmly woven of
leaves and twigs with an entrance hole at one
end. It resembled in form a willow warbler’s
nest on a larger scale and measured I ft. 10 in.
by I ft. 6 in. across. The circumference was
3 ft. 6 in. Here the young hedgehogs would
be reared until 'old enough to sally forth.

It is not easy to watch wild creatures in their
natural haunts for they have developed a
wholesome aversion to our company. Not
long ago a visitor to the Lake District while
resting, suddenly noticed a fox curled up on a
tree-stump asleep in the sun. An opportunity
such as this to watch a wild creature un-
observed only seldom occurs by lucky chance.
But what did this visitor do P He threw a
stone—the fox awoke and vanished like smoke
and with it all hope of learning something
of its ways. .

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

Many people have a strange antipathy
towards a weasel, quite without cause and
indeed in" many instances having no experience
whatever of its habits, good or ill. Their one
thought is to kill it—ask them why and they
look surprised and somewhat pained at the
idea that anyone would wish to do otherwise.
Yet what a great deal they miss, for all wild
animals and birds are fascinating to watch and
we can learn so much from studying their ways.
Once dead all interest *ceases, for what can a
lifeless creature show us?

ANIMALS’ FRIEND CALENDAR,
' I943-

This edition of THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND
Calendar has been so popular that another
thousand have been ordered. Will you help
us to sell these by telling all your friends
about them, please? Price IS. 3d. plus 3d.
purchase tax. Postage extra, Id. each, from
N.C.A.W., 32, Queen’s Avenue, London, N.Io.

._’—-«

 

 

BELFAST AND NORTHERN IRELAND WORN-OUT
HORSE FUND

Prerz'dem‘: CAPTAIN KER, D.L.
' Vice-President: The Rt. Hon. LORD GLENTORAN, D.L., O.B.E.

The Dead Home—just worked to (leatb.

 

ll

Rescued during 1941
299 Horses and Ponies.

Funds Urgently Needed.

SPECIAL APPEAL.

On account of the short—
age of petrol hundreds of
these animals, quite unﬁt
for work, are now being
used, and increased prices
demanded, which delays
rescue.

They are worked till they
drop.

“ The Horse is 21 Noble
Animal.”

Hon. Seeretmy :
Mrs. K. M. Shewell,
90, University Street,
Belfast,
Northern Ireland.

 




 

 

THE {ANIMALS’ FRIEND

November’Decembeb 1942

A Few Points on the Valueof the Salad Meal Habit.

By JANE TOPPING.

demonstration held lately in conjunction

with a horticultural show. The idea was
to let people see what could be done with the
vegetables grown on their allotments and in
their gardens instead of always trying to think
out cooked meals which have to be made
tasty with pepper and salt, etc., and are not
nearly so healthy, because everything that was
once good in the vegetables had been cooked
out of them, and generally thrown away, while
a salad meal is tasty in itself. The palate may
need re—training.

Let anyone give up using pepper and salt,
which only irritate and tickle the mucus
membrane, and foods will seem to possess
new ﬂavours, and make coming to the table a
joyful adventure, and time of refreshment
undreamt of before.

Salad meals top the list for keeping ﬁt. The
salad habit grows pleasantly on one. Salads
actually make one warmer in winter because
of their blood-cleansing action, and therefore
health—producing quality, and should not be
discontinued with the ﬁrst spell of .cold
weather. Salads should of course be well
chewed and the thorough mastication warms
the food before it reaches the stomach.

The purifying effect of raw vegetables
creates that natural schoolgirl complexion, and
so one saves on cosmetics but more important
still is the fact that one saves fuel, at least on
one meal of the day, and as there are no greasy
pots, pans or ovens to clean up afterwards less
soap is needed.

Salads give one more energy because of
their refreshing and nutritive value. Cooked
foods are lacking in colour and life-giving
properties and have not the same power to
cleanse, nourish and energise; in fact, they
use up energy and very often make one feel
heavy and sleepy instead of being light and
energetic and keen to tackle the next job on
hand. It would be helpful, and inspiring. to
new ideas, if a salad demonstration were planned
at all shows of “ home—grown produce.” Few
realise how much can be done with raw
vegetables and many housewives gladly plan
the new regime once they are shown how easy
it all is and here is where the practical demon—
stration is so valuable.

LIVELY interest was noted at a salad

A salad can be made in winter wit/90w lettuce.
All the evgetables which are usually cooked can
be eaten raw, if properly prepared, taking into
consideration prevailing weak digestion and
the present generation’s fashion in dentures
partly due to lack of salad food in the past. It
is best not to miX cooked and raw vegetables
at the same meal. Quantities and preparation
of the various vegetables present a little difﬁ—
culty to the amateur but it is a good plan to go
slow with the strong ﬂavoured vegetables at
ﬁrst and aim at a salad balanced in ﬂavour as
well as ingredients as follows :—

A tablespoonful of carrot, swede, artichoke,
white cabbage, sprouts or marrow, a small
dessertspoonful of white turnip, beetroot,
parsnip, red cabbage or radish. .

The roots can be grated and also the marrow,
sprouts, and hard heart of red cabbage, but
white cabbage and spinach can be put through
an ordinary mincer. Celery, seakale, leeks and
onions can be cut in small pieces and used as
desired. A ﬁnishing touch of a teaspoonful
of ﬁnely chopped mint, thyme, marjoram,
parsley or tarragon may be sprinkled over all.
They are very distinct ﬂavourings and should
be used one at a time. \Watercress can be used
plentifully but ring the changes on all the
other ingredients.

Keep left—overs from day to. day in a damp
cloth.

It is better to make individual salads in.
preference to one large dish where the last
person served at table fails to ﬁnd sufﬁcient
to make a balanced salad. A diﬂerent‘design
each day also helps to tickle the palate with
unabated keenness so that the word monotony
is not even thought of. It is rather fun planning
new designs or, better still, just let them
happen in the making. Milled nuts when
procurable, grated cheese and oil have come
to be looked on as natural additions to a salad
and very nice too.

Baked potatoes or wholemeal bread and
butter and a little dried fruit comprise a.
balanced meal.

It is a good plan to start with one salad a
day and later on make it twice a day and health
will improve accordingly, then responsibility
for vivisection will naturally cease.

“I“

 

 




 

 

N0 vmber’Decmber, 1942

What

 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

Shall It Profit A Man?

By YVONNE A. M. STOTT.

' N the recent outcry in press and on wireless
Ion the cruelty of evacuees from towns to

country districts, it was stated several times
that the country child is brought up among
animals, that he has to care for them and look
after them and that this must engender a love
for them. In many cases this is true but
however much a shepherd may love his sheep,
a farmer his cattle, what is this worth when the
time comes to send them to the butcher or to
take the calves from the cows? Nor does it
prevent their prize stock bulls being kept shut
up year in and year out to keep them “ in
condition.” It does not prevent the cruelties
of the market places, the keeping of rabbits
and poultry in narrow hutches and the dreadful
cages of the “ battery.” There is no doubt that
where money is made from animals, callousness
does and will result.

As Mr. Cather says in his pamphlet, “ In—
crease in Cruelty—a Challenge ”1 “ Our
civilisation is, in fact, founding itself upon the
exploitation of animals as past civilisations
were founded upon the enslavement of men.”
This is partly because our present civilisation
is founded upon the proﬁt factor in economics
and it is so easy to exploit and make proﬁts
from animals. Except for a very few excep-
tions, and these involve a very small percentage
of the animals, proﬁt is an important factor and
probably the most important, in transactions
involving cruelty to animals. Thus we have :

Proﬁt plus vanity—The procuring of furs,
feathers, skins of snakes, silk.

Proﬁt plus fear of illness or death—The
production of serums, vaccines, cod and halibut
liver oil; feeding experiments.

Proﬁt plus need for food—Production of
meat, ﬁsh, rabbits, poultry, milk; extermina—
tion of so—called pests.

Proﬁt plus utility—The procuring of leather,
wool, furs, cider—down, coal.

Proﬁt plus pleasure—The use of animals in
or for cinemas, music—halls, menageries,
circuses, zoos; animal shops.

13

The other practices in which the proﬁt-
making factor is practically absent would be
those involved in hunting, ﬁshing for sport,-
keeping of birds in cages, the collecting mania,
ignorance of proper feeding of pets, deliberate
cruelty through abnormalities of character.

It can be argued that the other factors are
as strong, yet one wonders how many women
would be ready to brave the rigours of a
Canadian trapper’s life to obtain her fur coat
herself? Would the trappers themselves want
to lead it were it not that money can be made
in this way? The writer was once speaking to
a trapper, now a soldier in England, and she
pointed out the cruelties of the trade. His
answer was, “ Yes, I expect it’s cruel but there’s
money in it.” How many people would want
to rear their own meat—and how few would
be willing to kill it? Are there any of the
Chicago stock—yard men who would not prefer
to earn their livings in some other more
decent fashion?

It would seem then that half the battle for
the animals would be won if the proﬁt element
could be taken out of our economic life and if
animals are to share in the beneﬁt of our
“ New Order,” this New Order will have to
eliminate proﬁt as the basis of production and
distribution of the necessary articles of our
daily lives and substitute the needs and the
requirements of the community instead.

Here we will come against that old and rather
senseless argument, “ But you will have to
change human nature ﬁrst.” This is ever the
refuge of the lazy person who does not want
to be bothered, does not want to think. No
sincere reformer ever wanted to change human
nature any more than an animal welfare worker
would want to change cat, or dog, or lion
nature before trying to help the animals. To
advance we have to work wit/7 human nature,
to understand it, to minister to its needs.
Human nature is largely ruled by its physical
body, it must be so as long as man has a
physical body. Man must ever work to be
able to eat, therefore eating and not proﬁt
must be the basis of any economic system that

 




 

 

 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

is to survive for that is the only true and
natural basis, not the utterly senseless and
artiﬁcial control by the stock exchange and
the bank.

It is on this natural basis that animals rule
their lives; this is the mainspring of their
existence, the raiser d’éire of most of their
activities. Can anyone deny that human beings
are far more cruel than the rest of the animals?

It follows, then, that to lay the foundations
of a more humane state of society we must
return to a more natural way of life, plan the
growing and distribution of our food so as to
get the best from the land, from our knowledge
of nature, from the labour of men, much as we
are doing at the present time, and we shall ﬁnd,
as we are doing now, that it serves the com—
munity much better to grow corn, vegetable,
fruits and nuts than to keep land for the
growing of cattle and sheep, that we can keep
much healthier if we live on Nature’s foods
and this will do away with our serums,
vaccines and patent medicines. We do not
allow the importation of animal turns, of
wild animals for menageries and zoos during
war, why cannot we forbid them in peace?
We know that mechanical haulage would be
better for coal production. Let coal be hewn
only for need and not for proﬁt and the long
agony of the pit pony would cease. We have
learnt so many of these lessons through the
war, cannot we carry the knowledge gained
into Peace? It is very probable that if Man does
not do so he will not survive !

 

Poster and Essay Competition

Results, 1942

. Eare now able to give the names of
‘X/ the winners in the Poster and Essay
Competitions held earlier in the year.

The usual difﬁculties were met in the judging.
So many of the entries were good that one
would wish every child could have a prize.
There was a fair amount of originality but
many showed distinct traces of being the
result of a class exercise, both in the posters
and in the essays. One would read through
an essay or look at a poster and think, “ De-
cidedly a prize winner,” only to discover that
all the entries from the same school were
practically similar! This, Of course, dis-
qualiﬁed the entrant. Since we have to reduce
our space it will not be possible to print many
.of the essays this year but we hope to print
the winning senior essay and the most interest-

14

._.--._.—..A~

[Val/emberDecember, I 942

ing excerpts from other entries in the January-
February issue.

Posters and Drawings.

SENIOR—152‘ prize: Phyllis Biggs, St.
Anne’s Park Senior Girls’ School, Bristol.
2rd prize : Maurice Adams, St. Peter’s School,
Devizes. 5rd prize: Patricia Westmore,
Sandown C.E. School, I.O.W.

INTERMEDIATE—«mt prize : Malcolm
Wright, St. Nicholas School, Bassett, South-
ampton. 272d prize: Valerie Mariner, Ryde
Junior Council School, I.O.W. 3rd prize:

Clifford Hodgson, Burton Pidsea Council ‘

School, near Hull.

JUNIOR.—IJ‘Z‘ prize: David House, Wilford
and Lake School, Salisbury. 2m] prize : Colin
Cripps, Hadlow Council School, near Ton-
bridge. 5rd prize: Barry Burbridge, Bishop
Perrin Memorial School, Whitton.

Essays.

SENIORr-IJ‘Z‘ prize: Sheila Rowe, Oxford
Road Senior Girls’ School, Horsham. 272d
prize: Joan Butcher, Sandown C.E. School,
I.O.W. 3rd prize: Diana Watson, Worcester
Secondary School for Girls. Correlation prize :
Mildred Berry, Central Girls’ School, Wey-
mouth; B. Kelly, Central Girls’ School,
Weymouth ; Irene Wiklund, Balgowan Central
Girls’ School, Beckenham.

INTERMEDIATE—13f prize: Peggy Wright,
Central Girls’ School, Weymouth. 272d prize :
Joan Woodhouse, Council School, Burton
Pidsea, near Hull; Olive Stokes, Manning-
ford Bruce School, Marlborough. 3rd prize:
Mavis Jones, Worcester Sec. School for Girls;
Maureen Howard, Sandown C.E. School,
I.O.W.

JUNIOR—152‘ prize: Molly Arnold, San—
down C.E. School, I.O.W. 271d prize : Audrey
Sibley, St. Bartholomew’s School, Hadleigh;
Valerie Makey, Burton Pidsea Council School,
near Hull. 3rd prize : D. Read, Hadlow Coun-
cil School, near Tonbridge; Nicholas Pocock,
St. Nicholas School, Southampton.

Just His Friend.

The ofﬁcer who came to inspect our pass—
ports was a big, genial fellow, and he was
accompanied by a dog. The sight of an Army
ofﬁcer taking a dog about with him on duty
struck me as strange and I asked a travelling
companion with whom I had made friends if
it were some kind of police dog. “ Oh, no,”
replied my Russian acquaintance, “it’s just
his friend.”—T/Jree Mom‘br in Rania, by W. J.

Brown.

 

 

2i
i
1
i

l
l

 

 

 




 

 

 

Normber’December, 1942

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

The Tanganyika Society for the Prevention of Cruelty

to Animals.

A Few Notes on the Society’s Activities in
East Africa.

HE Society has notices printed in Ki—
TSwahili explaining what constitutes
cruelty; these are posted up in-public
places, such as railway stations, markets, etc.
The Inspector Visits Chiefs ' in outlying
districts and asks them to have these notices
read out to the people at each Baraza.

Unspillable water tins are provided for
poultry on trains.

An essay competition on kindness to
animals is held yearly and all schools are
invited to compete. Magazines, posters and
leaﬂets on kindness to animals are sent to
schools and teachers are requested to give
lessons on the subject. '

The Inspector instructs Africans how to
tether goats and donkeys on long ropes
instead of on short pieces of string or rag that
cut into the ﬂesh when tied too tightly; they
teach that it is cruel to keep dogs chained up
continually when they like to be free to move
from one place to another in the same way as
people are able to do; dogs grieve and fret
very much if deprived ‘of this liberty. They
are taught not to carry fowls or ducks upside
down and to see that all animals and birds in
captivity have fresh water and food regularly.

The Inspector tries to impress on the native
mind that animals can and do feel and suffer
from ill—treatment just as human beings would,

but that animals being dumb, cannot voice
their sufferings or their needs : all the sacred
writings, the Bible, the Koran and th. Vedas,
enjoin consideration and gentle treatment for
animals, and teach that we should defend any
animal that we see being ill—treated.

Appeal for Members and Funds.

Will you please become a member of the
above Society P The annual subscription is
53., but any donation is very much appreciated.
The aim of the Society is to minimise the
cruelty to animals, so prevalent in the territory,
due mostly to neglect and ignorance. The
Society employs two fully trained African
Inspectors, who cycle many hours daily,
rendering first aid to sick animals, and to those
suffering from wounds and sores. More
inspectors are needed, but the cost of their
wages, uniforms, bicycles, medicines, First
Aid Outﬁt, etc., amounts to more than the
Society can afford to pay. There is much more
cruelty to be combated than is apparent. The
Society would be in a stronger position to do
good work if the membership were larger.
Please therefore do help.

 

AUTHORS invited to submit MSS. (especially
Fiction and Poems) to London Publishers of 4 5
years’ standing. Advice free. STOCKWELL,
LTD., Elms Court, Ilfracombe. (Duration

address.)

The National Equine (and Smaller Animals) Defence League.

Horse Protection Society—Pit Pony League.

Incorporating the Anti-Bearing Rein Association
(Founded by Francis A. Cox, 1909)

An organisation which gives rest and treatment to Horses and their Kind, Clinical Treatment to Smaller Animals
and Humane Release when necessary. Works incessantly for the substitution of Pit Ponies by Mechanical
Haulage, for Slaughter House and Auction Mart Reform, and Reform in Transport. Seeks to make com—
pulsory the use of a Total An aesthetic in many operations now performed without any anwsthetic whatsoever,
and the Total Outlawry of Hunting and Coursing, and Vivisection in all its vile forms, etc., etc.

Literature and all particulars of the League from the Organising Secretary, Alfred Briscoe, Blackwell,

Catlisle. (Tel. : Carlisle I469.)

 

 




 

 

 

 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

Novembeerecember, 1942

The Scottish Society for the Prevention of Viviseetion

Hon. Secretary: MISS IVORY (to whom all communications should be addressed).

Oﬁieex: EDINBURGH—Io, QUEENSFERRY STREET. GLASGOW—147, BATH STREET.

SECRETS OF GOOD HEALTH.

 

XIV. Why Meat Is Iniurious.
By Sir W. ARBUTHNOT LANE, Bart., C.B.

LARGE number 'of native races avoid
Aeating animal food of all sorts, and are

certainly more athletic, robust and
healthy than the members of civilised communi-
ties who live on a diet which consists largely
of ﬂesh in one form or another.

It is perhaps unnecessary to insist on the
fact that More racer n/no line on a non-animal diet
are liealz‘liier and capable of expending more energy
Man are More nine line largely on flex/9.

It is quite open to anyone to assert that,
while it is true in the case of the native existing
in his normal surroundings, it does not apply
to the white man living in a state of civilisation.

As an illustration of the fallacy of such a
belief we know that Wellington, though hard
pressed for men, took none under 5 ft. 5 in.,
and every man had to have perfect eyesight
and perfect teeth. These men, before they
enlisted, had been brought up on hard whole—
meal bread, garden produce, and practically
no meat. While serving they received I lb.
of wheat a day, which they ate as it was or
pounded up to make a coarse bread, and with a
scanty quantity of wholemeal flour if it could
be obtained.

Quite a large number of people have long
excluded animal food, other than dairy pro—
duce, from their dietary, with most marked
benefit to their physique and health.

Putrefying Food.

The explanation of the advantage which this
diet affOrded to them is perfectly simple.
Owing to our habit, which is practically
universal in civilisation, of damming back the
products of digestion in the large bowel,
simple and obvious mechanical changes take
place in the entire gastro—intestinal tract,
perfectly analogous to those which ensue in
the drainage scheme of a house when the out-
ﬂow from the cesspool is controlled by grease
and other obstructions.

There is also associated with this mechanical
obstruction an ascent from the large bowel of
harmful organisms which then invade and grow

16

on the contents of the small bowel. These
contents are the digesting and digested food
from which the tissues of the body derive their
nourishment.

The extent of the infection of the food in
process of digestion in the small intestine
determines the amount of poisons absorbed
into the circulation. As a large proportion of
the people suffer from such a condition, it is
clear that great benefit would inevitably result
if all such food capable of producing deleterious
matter when brought into immediate contact
with the agencies which produce putrefaction
were discarded. ' ‘ '

On the other hand, grains, fruits, vegetables,
and dairy produce placed in the same con-
ditions do not develop deadly poisons, and are
therefore not harmful. One is familiar with
the fact that a single sardine or one anchovy
which has been infected by these same agencies
before being eaten can terminate the existence
of the individual in a few hours, while foods
such as cheese may be kept indefinitely without
becoming poisonous.

Hence the reason why many people living in
civilisation have discarded animal foods and
have limited their diet to dairy produce and
the fruits of the soil. .

Reprinted by kind permission of Me “ Daib/
Mail” and Sin Aroaz‘lonoi‘ Lane, Bart, CB.

 

Rocky [Mountain Goats—most agile negetarianyl

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

[Vovember’Decemben I 942

Correspondence

To #23 Editor of THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND.
RELIGION AND LIFE.

SIR,—Any Religion which rises above the level of
fetichism conceives God as Creator and Sustainer of
His Universe. Emphasis of this standpoint may at
this time, when a “ Religion and Life Campaign ” is in
progress, be opportune ; for it does not appear that the
conferences called or the statements issued by the
accredited leaders of the Christian organisations—or,
indeed, of any other organisations—are paying ex-
haustive attention to it. They tend, instead, while
insisting that through Christianity alone can the
civilisation of the world be saved, to regard that world
as consisting of God and Man only, and the relationship
of these two parties to the divine—human contract as
the sole factor in that civilisation’s salvation. Arch-
angels and animals are not included in the ambit of
their deliberations.

The leaders and ministrants of the Churches may
perhaps acknowledge the angelic hierarchy as invisible
and unheard members of their conclaves; but they
certainly ignore the claims of those other races who
visibly co-inhabit with us the world in which we live,
and no section of the Churches has suggested that it
regards this multitudinous division of Nature as holding
any innate sanctity in virtue of the divinely given life
which informs it. Indeed, a very eminent churchman
in a letter to the writer declares, “ I cannot follow you
in thinking that our treatment of the animal world has
any close bearing upon human problems. The moral
relationships, though real, are so very different.”

If there be a Creator, it is of His high purpose that
all life has come into being. If there be a Sustainer,
it is of His purpose that all life continues. And if as
self—conscious and reasoning creatures we seek to
approach such a God, surely we must do so by acknow-
ledgment, acceptance and interpretation of that purpose ;
not by substitution for it of our own desires; we
cannot set ourselves in alignment with that which we are
a‘btively trying to frustrate. The very power of such a
purpose will shatter us if we continually set ourselves
athwart it; nor can we for long exist unless we learn
to act in consonance with it.

Species after species has appeared upon the earth and
has vanished from it, because it could not contain and
transmit the impulse of life committed to it. State after
State, Empire after Empire, has broken and gone,
because it attempted to establish itself upon the sup—
pression of the impulse of life in groups, nations, or
races feebler than itself. This indeed we recognise,
and a would-be Order of such a kind we are to—day
invoking the divine aid to destroy. Yet the Order
which we think worthy, which we hope to develop and
to exalt, itself is founded and is to be extended upon the
suppression and exploitation of other races—those of
the animal world.

The factual truth of this is beyond denial, for its
evidences are inscribed upon every facet of our living,
and dim the shining of the spirit within us. Our food,
our clothing, our industry, our amusement, our health-
seeking, our learning, are each and all steeped in the
blood and suffering of animals: there is scarcely any
conceivable cruelty which we have not by negligence or
by design inflicted upon them, or which, directly or by
implication, we do not claim the right to inﬂict.

By condemning the exploitation by man of man,
while excusing the exploitation by man of animals, we

If

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

proclaim to the world—and to Heaven—that ex—
ploitation is not wrong in itself, but only in its inci-
dence; we substitute for Justice a mere assessment of
expediency; and, in fact, adopt the creed against
which we believe that we are ﬁghting. The material
may be different, but the pattern of spoliation is the
same. The line of demarcation which our enemies
draw between themselves and the rest of humanity,
we parallel with another between ourselves and the
lesser races of Creation. We should have small ground
for complaint if the Company of Heaven were to fix a
further barrier between their own estate and ours—~—
and what would the Churches ﬁnd to say about it?

Surely, the question for us to ponder, is not to 12/130771
We are cruel or whom we are exploiting, not whether
animals have or can have a moral relationship to m;
but whether in m are the roots of insensitivity, callous-
ness and cruelty; whether we shall allow them to fix
their strangle—hold upon us, or shall attempt to weed
them out. Have those who would lead us, who
lament that the churches are empty, considered this:
that many of us believe them to be counselling us to
accept an ethic lower than that which we of ourselves
are endeavouring to practise?

“ No close bearing upon human problems.” Is not
this the practical outcome of our choice? That, being
ourselves ready to exploit and to despoil, we look for
the same aptitude in our neighbours, and still more in
other nations : so that again and again we run through
the whole hateful gamut of greed, suspicion and
hatred that leads and can only lead, in its own bad time,
to disruption or to war.

Yours faithfully,
J. L. CATHER.

Upmeads,

Bexhill Old Town,

Sussex.

To 1/26 Editor of THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND,
OUR DUTY TO THE BIRDS.

SIR,—Since the evacuation of so many town and
city children to the country the robbing of birds’ nests
and a great deal of cruelty has come to our personal
knowledge, and whilst our own efforts to point out to
these young people the right that a bird has to live
and the good it does, have, we hope, had some effect,
it is necessary that our adult population should lend an
aid in inculcating and fostering a genuine love and
respect for all dumb creatures among young and
growing children.

This is one of the chief aims of the Youth Section
of The United Humanitarian League, and we hope
that our appeal will not fall on deaf ears. This is all
the more important at a time when the spirit of destruc-
tion is so widespread, and we shall be pleased to enlist
the sympathy and support of your readers in our
efforts to combat the cruelty that is taking place, and
to do “ Our duty to the Birds.”

As Robert Lynd has so wisely written :—

“ The truth is, a world populated only by human
beings and domestic animals, a world in which no wild
animal moved, no wild bird sang, no wild ﬂower grew,
and no insect was to be seen, would seem to most of us
a horrible world and little better than a desert.”

Yours very sincerely,
W. PERCIVAL WESTELL, President,
E. DINGWALL, Hon. Secretary,

Youth Section, THE UNITED HUMANITARIAN LEAGUE.

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

To the Editor of THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND,

SIR,—The recent formation of two leagues, i.e. the
“ League for Protection of Rooks ” and the “- League
for Protection of Town Pigeons ” by that valiant
knight—the Rev. S. Claude T ickell—will ﬁll two sore
.and aching voids and will represent the materialised
dreams of two who especially love these poor feathered
Cinderellas—namely, Mrs. T. S. Hawkins and myself.

Would that Mr. Tickell’s clerical type were multiplied
as I observed in my two recently published letters on
the pigeon petty persecution subject in the Star and
Bat/9 aria’ Wiltr C/Jrom'o/e.

With a few rare exceptions the clergy seem nowadays
to ﬂood the Sunday Press with diatribes on every
conceivable moral obligation except that of the duty of
justice to animals, whose toll of suffering is tragically
augmented by the war.

And what a race of sadistic or anyway atavistic
children we are breeding!

Pigeons ﬁercely shooed away from timidly picking
up a few crumbs ; chickens and rabbits openly boasted
about as being“ nearly ﬁt for the pot ”—caterpillars
collected in empty matchboxes and then ﬂung on
roadway and ground under bootheel.

When I protested against this last named outrage
and pointed out that the hideous green “ splodge ” on
the road represented so many killed “ painted ladies,”
-etc., I was told : “ Garn ! we don’t want no butterﬂies
eating our cabbages.”

Someone viciously told me the other day that no
sane person could prefer animals to children.

My rejoinder was that at this rate and unless a check
was put on rampant juvenile hooliganism the converse
would soon be universally appropriate.

M. DUDLEY W'ARD.
'88, Warwick Avenue,
S. Harrow.
10th September, 1942‘.

From Miss Lettice Macnaghten, author of Pirto/ v.
Po/oaxe, a Handbook on Humane Slaughter.

SIR,-—I notice in THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND, August,
1942, pages 160—1, that my friend, Mr. Geoffrey
Bowker, appears to think adversely of lethal boxes and
further, on page 167, I read that a group of humane
people are “ seeking to ﬁnd a better way of giving an
ending to . . . dogs and cats, . . . not being satisﬁed
with electrocution and lethal boxes.”

As to electrocution, I too have grave doubts about it
and would never encourage the method.

According to good authorities the effect of electrOCu—
tion is quite unknown. The animal certainly dies in
the end, but whether without pain is still very
questionable.

Now as to the lethal box. After having seen many
cats chloroformed in these boxes and having read and
discussed the matter with several intelligent and ex-
perienced people, I am absolutely convinced that no
more satisfactory method of killing cats and dogs could
possibly be devised.

Shooting is good—but there are many people who
could easﬂy manage a lethal box who would not under-
take to shoot an animal.

Nowit cannot be. too strongly emphasised, indeed,
it is the important pomt that plenty of air must be given

1V0 vomboraDecombor, 1942 ,

with the chloroform until the animal is quite un-
conscious, when all the air—holes in the lethal box may
be tightly shut. For my sins, I once saw a cat put into
a lethal box, which was immediately completely closed.
The combination of airlessness and strong chloroform
had the disastrous eﬂect one might have expected, viz.,
the most terrible struggling and ﬁghting for life on the
part of the cat. ,

This was in the early days when well-meaning people,

knowing that chloroform was a good thing, thought

that you could not have too much of it and, to make
sure it was really strong, they carefully excluded all air.

Now, it is realised that the exact opposite is what is
required, viz., plenty of air and the chloroform given
very gradually in order not to worry or alarm the
animal.

When this is done (as I have seen repeatedly) the
animal sniﬂs at the unusual smell and may sneeze
slightly, nothing worse than that. It becomes more
and more drowsy, gradually losing consciousnessand
collapsing altogether. Among the many I have seen
killed I never got the impression that any were in the
least distressed except the unfortunate cat who was
obviously lethalised far too quickly.

Human beings who have had chloroform agree that
if it is given very gradually they can take it without
any trouble.

I cannot help thinking that those who doubt the
humanity of the lethal-box must have seen animals put
into it with plenty of chloroform and very little air.
If so, I don’t wonder that they disliked what they saw.
The idea and the practice of killing dogs and cats with
chloroform is 50 simple that there should not be the
slightest difficulty in getting it properly carried out
everywhere.

Many of the humane societies, certainly the R.S.P.C.A.
and the S.S.P.C.A., have leaﬂets explaining the use of
the lethal—box. .

They also have an excellent chloroform bag, which
is more portable than a lethal—box, and which the
Inspectors of the S.S.P.C.A., at any rate, take with
them on their rounds.

To the Editor of THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND,
“ I WILL REPAY.”

SIR,——\We clearly see in this war that “ Man’s in-
humanity to man makes countless thousands mourn.”
And not only man but all creation is groaning together
in this orgy of blood and ﬁre. It certainly brings home
to us the cruelties we inﬂict, by abuse of power, on the
lower creation.

The bomb-mangled men and women have taken the
place of tortured disembowelled horses in Spanish
bull ﬁghts. Humans rush to shelter exactly as terriﬁed
rabbits do from the gun of the hunter. Animals im-
prisoned for life in zoos are superseded by thousands of
prisoners of war, and now, chained men are.taking the
place of wretched dogs chained in sheds for weeks at a
time. I wonder if this war will teach us a real lesson
on humanity to our fellow creatures, and above all of
the kinship we bear with our four-footed companions.

I might end with the poet’s cry—“ Oh, for a world
in which there is no abuse of power! ”

Yours,

GWENYTH M. O. WILLIAMS.
Braunton, Devon.




Noyemner’December, 1942 THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND.

 

THE NATIONAL CANINE DEFENCE LEAGUE
The Pioneer Organization for the Welfare of Dogs

Gives skilled treatment to over 82,000 ailing dogs and other animals every year.
Pleads the cause of the chained or otherwise ill-treated dog, by the circulation of many
, . thousands of posters and leaﬂets every year.
Enlightens the public on all aspects of dog-welfare by press propaganda, cinema ﬁlms,
lantern lectures, essay competitions, etc.
Seeks to probibit f/Je viviseetion of dogs.

Membership 53. 0d. upwards.
CHAS. R. JOHNS, Secretary, VICTORIA STATION HOUSE, S.W.I

 

 

If You Are a Cat Lover You Should Join

‘OLD VICTOR’ ~ .
The Cats Protection

A Short Story (about a prize pit horse).

 

 

By B. L. COOMBES (Ant/Jar of “ These Poor *
Hands”). 2d. post free; League
6 PRAYER TO GO TO PARADISE The one society devoted solely to the welfare
WITH THE DONKEYS ’ of cats and kittens.
Poem translated from the French of Francis MEMBERSHIP 5 / - PER ANNUM,
Jammes by Vernon Watkins and reprinted - - - ., .
from Tim Listener. “ This beautiful prayer.”—— includlng the Soc1ety b ofﬁc1al organ,
T178 Anima/s’ Friend. Four copies 2d. post free. “ THE CAT ”
owe,» leaflets on Pit Ponies. Associate Membership Subscription 35. 6d. p.a.
The Pit Ponies’ Protection Society, -
69, CARLTON HILL, LONDON, N.W-8 \Vrite for Free Literature toz—The Secretary, 29,

Church Street, Sloagh, Bucks.

 

 

l Every friend of animals should read

l “THIS CRUELTY CALLED SPORT”

) Written by Air—Commodore CHARLTON, C.B., C.M.G., D.S.O., and published by

A The LEAGUE AGAINST CRUEL SPORTS

l Temporary Address: 239 H URS T ROA D, S I DC UP, KENT.

Write for your copy to—day. Price 7d. post free.
THEN JOIN THE LEAGUE. Membership from 28. 6d. up.

——-..- I'm

National Society for Abolition of Cruel Sports

c/o 253 COWLEY ROAD, OXFORD

leairlnan: H. G. CHANCELLOR. Hon. Treasurer: LORD OLIVIER. Hon. Secretary: BERTRAM LLOYD
Latest Publication DEER HUNVFING AND SHOOTING ON ‘ ,
EXMOOR 2d. ,

 

By M. Chapman

 

 

 

I .
i All snbserzpz‘ions and eon/nnmz'eatz'ons for the Magazine should be addressed “ T/Je Editors, ANIMALS’ FRIEND,
‘ 32, Queen’s Avenue, Mnsn/e/l Hi/l, London, N .10.” -

 




THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND November’Dece‘mber, 1942

 

JOIN THE

SCOTTISH SOCIETY FOR THE
PREVENTION OF VIVISECTION

Object: THE ABOLITION OF VIVISECTION

Hon. Secretary: Miss N. IVORY, to whom all communications should be addressed

Offices: { EDINBURGH — IO QUEENSFERRY STREET
GLASGOW — — I47 BATH STREET

 

FUNDS URGENTLY REQUIRED

 

 

Form of Bequest

To those who rnay be inclined to become benefactors by Will to the Society,
the following form is respectfully suggested: ——

“ I bequeath to THE SCOTTISH SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF VIVISECTION,
whose offices are now or formerly were at NO.10,QUEENSEERRY STREET,
EDINBURGH, the sum of ,5

(free of duty) to be applicable for the general purposes of such Society, and I
declare that the receipt of the Treasurer or other proper officer for the time being
of such Society shall be sufficient discharge for the same.’

CAUTION

It is of great importance to describe very accurately the Title of this Society, namely: ——
‘THE SCOTTISH SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF VIVISECTION, ” otherwise the benevolent
intentions of the Donor may be frustrated. All wills and codicils must be in writing, Signed
by the Testator in the presence of, and attested by, two witnesses, or must be in the hand“ riting
of, and signed by the Donor.

 

 

Printed in Great Britain by the Surrey Fine Art Press, Cavendish Road, Redhill, Surrey,
for the National Council for Animals’ Welfare, 32, Queen’s Avenue, Muswell Hill, London, N.10.

 

 




