National Society for the Abolition
of Cruel Sports

 

Hon. Secretary : BERTRAM LLOYD,

253 COWLEY ROAD, OXFORD.

 

No. 76 BULLETIN, JUNE 1942

CHARLES OLDHAM

The death of Charles Oldham in April last meant the loss to the
country of a great naturalist, distinguished particularly as an
ornithologist and a malacologist, and the loss to our Society of an
ever helpful friend and Vice—President. A ﬁeld naturalist in the
direct line of succession from Gilbert White of Selborne, Oldham
was also a whole-hearted protectionist, looking for the future
extension of the Wild Birds Protection Acts to the whole of
British wild life; and naturally detesting blood-sports and their
implications. Joining the Society on its formation he was one of
its ﬁrst-elected Vice-Presidents; and his valuable advice and
encouragement were thereafter constantly at our service. He was
the author, too, of the ﬁrst pamphlet which we published, The
Cost of a Fox. Obituary notices appeared inter alia in The Times
of April 15th (headed ‘A great Naturalist’), The Field, April 25th
and Nature, May 2nd.

We also regret to announce the death of R. H. Spurrier, Chair—
man of the National Council for Animal Welfare. Spurrier gave
unfailing support to the work of the movement against blood—
sports, and, as Editor of The Animal ’s Friend, devoted a page each
month to an account of the activities of this Society. His loss will
be felt by every branch of the humanitarian cause.

A STAG—HUNTING ‘INCIDENT’ AT PORLOCK WEIR

The following letter from Mrs. J. de Bairacli-Levy, a member of
our Society, appeared in The West Somerset Free Press (11/4/42):

 




 

‘Sir —— . . . I hope that the time is not far distant when parts of
Exmoor will be appointed as sanctuaries for the wild red deer,
where the ways of those beautiful and sensitive animals can be
studied, but, above all, where the hunted and terriﬁed can go for
sanctuary; for, as things are at present on the moor, there is no
shelter or escape from the hound packs, other than the sea ——
which in most cases means certain death. The chances of deer
escaping from the hound packs once the hounds get on their trail
can be no higher than 10 per cent. Finally, “terriﬁed” is but a
meaningless word when applied to the stag which was killed at
Porlock Weir last month, March 24th, and tormented in such a
way that the feelings of almost every resident in the village have
been outraged.

‘This particular stag had its tail, with several inches of the spinal
cord, torn from its living body, and yet so great was its fear that
the animal ran on for a further quarter of a mile to the sea without
its tail, there to be caught upon the barbed wire entanglement
from which it, after terrible wounding, freed itself, only to be
ﬁnally further torn by the hounds in the sea, and drowned.

‘Where the stag had struggled in the sea there remained upon
the water for a considerable time a great red patch of blood. No
person who saw the blood upon the sea will ever forget. It is
signiﬁcant that those soldiers who were hunted by German planes
upon the beaches of Dunkirk and then Greece and Crete (my
young brother was in all three places) cannot now tolerate hunting.’

On April 23rd Mr. W. Leach (Lab. Bradford Central) drew the
attention of the Minister of Agriculture to the cruelty involved in
this incident and asked if he would take steps to end such functions.
The Minister, Mr. R. Hudson, replied: ‘My information is that
the hide of the stag in question was entirely untorn. The Chairman
of the Devon and Somerset Staghounds informs me that the sole
object of stag-huntin g in war-time was the killing of deer, prefer-
ably by shooting, in order to preserve food crops.’

As soon as it became apparent that the Hunt had denied the
accusations made inher letter, Mrs. de Bairacli-Levy went to the
very considerable trouble of collecting twelve statements, each one
written and signed by the witness, from the young boy who found
the stag’s tail in the garden far away from where the stag was




ﬁnally drowned, to the many witnesses who saw the impaling on
the barbed wire and the tearing by the hounds in the sea. This
document was sent to Mr. Leach who on May 5th again, in the
House of Commons, asked the Minister, if, in view of a conﬂict of
evidence relating to a recent stag hunt in North Devon an inquiry
would be held. The Minister replied that he was satisﬁed that no
useful purpose would be served.

Although it is evident that no steps will be taken at the present
time to prevent the recurrence of these revolting incidents, a good
deal of public feeling has been roused, and Editors of a number of
provincial journals have published correspondence, in which this
Society participated. It will be remembered that the Minister of
Agriculture stated in a letter to our Secretary, dated July 25th,
1940, that he had been informed by the Devon and Somerset
Staghounds that over two-thirds of the deer killed by them during
the ﬁrst season of the war were shot, not hunted; and that the
Secretary of the British Field Sports Society has repeatedly asserted
that in war—time the question of ‘sport’ in hunting is not even a
secondary consideration.

RECENT HUNTING NEWS

In March at the Annual Meeting of the Portman Hunt a recom-
mendation was put forward by the Committee that hunting should
cease for the duration of the war. At the adjourned meeting a
month later, at which Canon C. H. S. Bower was voted to the
chair, the proposal was carried nem can “that the Hunt Committee
should make arrangements to carry on hunting next season, not
more than two days a week.”

At a general meeting of the Tedworth Hunt held in March it
was decided, for ﬁnancial and other reasons, to discontinue
hunting for the duration of the war.

A special meeting of the Old Surrey and Burstow Hunt was held
recently to discuss future prospects. The Chairman announced
that the Committee had decided ‘that unless circumstances
changed it would not be possible to hunt next season as conditions
were getting more difﬁcult, especially in regard to feeding the
hounds, etc.’

At the Annual Meeting of the Courtenay Tracy Otter Hunt the

 




 

members decided that the Hon. Secretary, Miss Boutcher, should
arrange hunting one day a week for the ﬁrst four weeks of the
season. During last season hounds were out on thirty-seven days,
found twenty—two otters and killed three. An increased number of
otters was found in Wiltshire.

The South Devon Hunt has decided to carry on in the way
recommended by the Masters of Foxhounds’ Association. The
members will try to keep foxes down to a minimum -— and keep
things going for better times. The West Somerset and Derwent
Hunts are also to continue next season.

FREEDOM OF THE SPORTING PRESS

The British Field Sports Society is anxious to muzzle its sup-
porters. In Horse and Hound (6/3/42) the Chief Secretary, Mr.
J. W. Fitzwilliam, appeals to sportsmen to refrain from following
up a letter from a correspondent who suggests that the continuance
of fox-hunting during the war is wrong and that it may be forcibly
wound up by the Government, since ‘the airing of personal views
by many who cannot be in possession of the full facts could serve
no useful purpose. In fact past experience shows that such dis-
cussions go a long way to supply our opponents with exactly that
ammunition for which they are always searching for use against
us.’ We hope the day will not come when a humane Society
adopts the highly undemocratic procedure, which must surely be
distasteful to many sportsmen, of denying their members the right
to express personal opinions.

Since the above note was penned the following letter in Horse
and Hound from ‘An Almost Fanatical Sportsman,’ has been
brought to our notice: ‘Sir, as a reader of your paper for some
forty years I strongly resent the letter from Mr. Fitzwilliam. This
is still a free country, thank God, and we have a free Press. Does
he think we are all F.P.I. —— 5 per cent intellect? There is a fool
born every minute, it is said; personally I think there are more.
But we are not all fools and we are ﬁghting against dictatorsth.
Mr. Fitzwilliam would muzzle us and we must not “butt in and
send a spate of letters”. The Masters of Foxhounds Association
constitute a body of honourable, just and thinking men, but we
must not forget that in the past we have trusted bodies of elected
men and in consequence we'are in the position we are to day. . . .’

Slatter & Rose, Ltd., Oxford.

 




