THE

CASE

FOR
HUMANE
SLAUGHTER”

 

 

 




 

 




ﬁzz-w fur-ﬂ; -:
.'[ j

,1. r afﬁv; ‘,"' . “ "’

- 1'- L.“ .4) «m4

 

l: 'W‘v‘

The Case for Humane
Slaughter.

 

 

It is the unanimous opinion of the directors of abattoirs
in countries where the mechanical killer system is enforced
by law that the only humane and practical method of
slaughtering animals for food is stunning by the bullet or
bolt, and so putting the brain instantaneously out of action.
If the stunning is carried out by means of the mechanical
instrument, which alone ensures efﬁciency, the absence of
the eyeball reﬂex (the test used by surgeons) proves that
absolute anesthesia is produced. The function of the heart,
however, continues with vigour for several minutes, so that
the bleeding from the arteries, which should be cut imme—
diately after stunning, is just as free as if the animal were
still conscious.

The methods which involve the use of the pole axe and
knife are open to very serious objection on account of the
unnecessary suffering which they entail.

As regards the slaughter of beasts with the poleaxe, if
the blow is successfully delivered, and the punch enters the
brain, complete unconsciousness is immediate. Such a blow
requires accuracy, nerve and steadiness on the part of the
slau‘ghterman, and much practice to become proﬁcient.

Sheep are probably the greatest sufferers of all. The
knife is stuck through the neck, and the cartilage at the top
of the vertebrae severed—an operation that entails ﬁve to
thirty seconds agony before unconsciousness supervenes even

 




 

when carried out by the expert. Pigs are sometimes
stunned, but are generally stuck in the breast, and allowed

to bleed to death.

With all these animals the humane killer is certain in its
action, instantaneous and complete anaesthesia being pro-
duced. The right sized cartridge is selected, and the muzzle
placed against the correct spot on the head. The blow is
mechanically delivered, and is predetermined to act as re-
quired. Any slaughterman may become proﬁcient in the use
of the killer by a few minutes instruction and practice on a

piece of wood.

Those butchers who are averse from adOpting humane
methods sometimes assert that the meat from animals
slaughtered by the mechanical killer suffers from deteriora-
tion thereby.

The report of a slaughter demonstration organised by
the National Federation of Traders’ Associations held at
Birmingham in 1923 has been circulated with the View to
prove that this is the case. Any evidence upholding the
view was destroyed by the criticism of Dr. Howarth, M.O.H.
to the Corporation of London, who was present at the
demonstration. At the luncheon subsequently held, he
stated :— i

“ This question of humane slaughtering depends only
on two things—~—sentiment and blood.” . . . . “It
is a question of how much blood is left in the carcass.
Now let me tell you this, gentlemen . . . . I am not
a novice in looking at carcases, but I assure you that if
you were to take me round Smithﬁeld and ask, me to
point out those carcases which had been bled after the
use of some humane killer I could not do so. That is
the ﬁrst important point.”

 

v :2‘ -1: 2735.;- ‘ “ ‘

 

 




 

“ To=morrow you are going to examine those car-
cases. I am going to criticise you before you begin. I
do not think that whatever the results may be, or rather
I do not think that if the results should be divergent
they would be worth very much. I am sorry, but I think
you want candid friends amongst you.”

“I have seen the animals lying on the ﬂoor for dif-
ferent intervals before the blood was allowed to be
extracted. I have seen animals there with their throats
cut practically immediately after stunning.

I have seen others that have waited at least a minute.
Do you expect that after dressing they are to be com-
parable? You are not comparing things of equal value.”

“We also hear of another problem, splash=
ing. Do any of you know that practically every method
of slaughtering, except perhaps the cutting without
preliminary unconsciousness, will show splashing occa=
sionally? But is that splashing numerically so important
as to be put seriously in the balance against a method
which could be more approved from the point of view of
sentiment? ”

 

 

. It is. obvious that if the simple regulations in the use of
i the mechanical instrument are not observed (whether inten-
tionally or through negligence), unsatisfactory results must

follow.

1 The following extracts are taken from the Report of the
very complete investigation which was recently carried out
by the Corporation of London into the slaughter of a large
number of animals during a considerable period.

Referring to preliminary stunning by the Hammer,
mallet or maul, the Report says :—

 

 




“ In the slaughter of small animals, such as small
pigs, and in some instances sheep and usually calves,
‘the hammer, mallet or maul is used to produce uncon~
sciousness. It is probable that very few would claim
that this preliminary stunning results in any disadvan-
tage being observed in the carcase. The main objection
to its use is the uncertainty of action.”

“With reference to the poleaxe, the certainty of
stunning by the use of the poleaxe must obviously depend
upon the skill of the operator, but even with the most
skilled man, failure to stun at the ﬁrst attempt must be
recorded, and the probability of failure varies not only
with the operator’s skill, but with the type of animal to
be struck.

“ The extent of the unreliability of the method has
been under observation by us in over 900 instances. In
these observations it should be placed on record that in
no instance was either carelessness or apathy observed,
and in all the operator was a skilled man working under
reasonable conditions. In the case of bulls, without
division into young or old, it was found that 100 bulls
required on an average 250 blows to produce uncon=
sciousness; in the case of 100 oxen, 123 blows; of 100
c0ws, 127 blows; and in the case of 100 pigs, 155 blows.
, These ﬁgures are, of course, the percentage totals based
on the total observations, and have formed the funda-
mental basis for comparing the certainty of the produce
tion of unconsciousness by the poleaxe with that result-
ing from the use of an apparatus which will be described
later.”

 

In reference to the production of unconsciousness by
means of mechanically operated instruments the following
table sets out the cases in which the Temple-Cox Pistol was
used :-——~

 




 

Class of I No. of Animals Shots

killed. required.
Bulls . . . ... . 24 . 25
Steers . . . .. . 457 457
Cows .. . ... 61 61
Boars . . . ... 42 42
Sows 215 216
Pigs ... ... 455 457
Horses 1 I 1

1255 1259

“ The summary of the use of the instru=
ment shows that 1,255 animals were rendered uncon=
scious by it, and that 1259 shots were required. The
small number of four second shots in over a thousand
uses compares more than favourably with the results
from the pole=axe.”

Commenting on the condition of meat after slaughter the
Report states :-—- 4

“ We have carefully examined the meat of the above
animals in the carcase form, and we desire to state
emphatically that no exception can be taken to the
eﬂiciency of the bleeding. The meat was sold at Smith-
ﬁeld Market, and no complaints were made or received.”

An increasing number of our Local Authorities recog-
nising the statutory obligation imposed upon them by the
Legislation to prevent cruelty in slaughter houses by means
of byelaws have adopted the Ministry of Health byelaw
Clause QB which makes the use of the mechanical killer com-
pulsory in the area. However, over 2,000 of them have not
yet adopted the byelaw, in other words, over 90 per cent.
of the 40,000 animals daily slaughtered in this country for

 




 

 

food are killed by the old barbarous methods which involve
so much unnecessary terror and suffering.

“ The Lord Chief Justice pointed out in 1922 that
Local Authorities were not only entitled but were under
a statutory obligation to make byelaws for the preven=
tion of cruelty, and expressed the strong opinion of the
Court that the byelaw before them—i.e., model Clause 9b
was a proper byelaw for the purpose.”

Since the means of abolishing the pain of the processes
of slaughter is now known, the continued inﬂiction of the
death agony becomes unnecessary and therefore cruel.
Surely the very defencelessness of the animals should con-
stitute their claim for protection.

For literature or further information. apply to the
Humane Slaughter of Animals Association, 5, John Street,
Adelphi, W.C.2. '

Chairman—SIR ARTHUR MAYO-ROBSON, C.B., C.V.O.,
K.B.E.

Hon. Secretary—NORMAN GRAHAM, Esq.

 

 




 

k
,

 

‘ w.- .b-rQ Nun“

—« 1.‘u--.n-m:¥ mum-m» »

 

 




 

 




